The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

ALUMNUS 
r!?S 

'^!iPi'^'^hf^ '^ -' ^' 


The 26th Annual 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT 
is Monday 
APRIL 25 
IVhat is your Club doing f 
Join with thousands of other Notre Dame men in scores of Notre Dame clubs 
in observing this traditional Notre Dame Night. Mark your calendar NOW ! 
This Year Commencement and Alumni Reunion are on Separate Week-ends 
ALUMNI REUNION 
Friday, Saturday and Sunday 
June 10, II and 12 (on the Campus of course) 
Special reunions of the five-year classes: 1899, 1904, 1909, 1914, 1919, 1924, 1929, 
1934,, 1939 and 1944. Residence accommodations in the halls. Expanded reunion 
program. Class secretaries and Reunion Committees are working on details. 
Watch for further announcements, but mark the dates now — June 10, II and 12 
••.^ iV^.;'t'jrTl^, ^?V^;^?r •*• 

mnnnj^ 
ii#i 
;?s­
k:E,wj~;~^f*^'^'^•iiSi**'^^^™' 
»^2%\^^ 

TS "... ,~ *0 .(• i-iS -- ?*• 
SS^SSSS 
prttm 
^-4_-J' 

T- ^f»i :i* 
PflSSIM 
-^:5«--i^ms@ 



4.-:?i«as 

y^l 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS 
Vol. 27. No. 2 Morch-April, 1949 
James E. Armstrong. '25. Editor 
William H. Dooley. '26. Managing Editor 
This magazine is published bi-monlhly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under, the act oi Aug. 24, 1912. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
NOTRE DAME:—THE POST-WAR OUTLOOK by Bob Azar 5 
"WHITHER AMERICAN EDUCATION?" by Thomas Brady .. 6 
THE HUMANITIES by Jim King and Louis 
Rukavina _ 7 
THE SCIENCES by John Carrol _ 9 
\VINTER CHRONICLE by Richard McCarthy. 11 
STUDENT FAMILY by John Sullivan 13 
FRESHMAN—1949 by Frederick George 17 
MIDYEAR COMMENCEMENT 20 
WALLACE ALUMNI PRESIDENT 21 
ASSOCIATION LOOKS AHEAD 25 (Plus the regular news and features) 
They Get The Credit 
Rabert Azar is a 21-year-old senior from Encino, Calif. He hopes to enter either radio or newspaper work after his graduation in June. Thomas Brady, 23, from Oak Park, 111., a senior, is undecided about his after-graduation plans. Senior Jack Carrol, 23, hails from Lansing, Mich., started out in Engineering, switched to Journalism, and is un­decided about his future work. Frederick George, a 23­year-old junior from Jackson, O., hopes to write for maga­zines and newspapers after he graduates June, 1950. 
James King, whose home is in New York Cit>', is a 23­year-old senior. . Jim plans to enter the public relations field, or advertising, after graduation in June. Richard McCarthy is a 28-year-old senior from Joliet, 111. His plans call for a future in the newspaper or magazine fields. 
Louis Rukavina, 23-year-old senior, graduates in Janu­ar>', 1950. Lou, who is from West Allis, Wis., is married. He plans to do graduate work at Northwestern, in prepara­tion for foreign correspondence work. John Sullivan, who lives in Lj-nn, Mass., is 25 years old and a senior. John will enter the newspaper business after graduation. 
Heredity or Environment 

It could be due to heredity. After all. Professor Stritch's Journalism Department, Main Building, First Floor, North, does now occupy the quarters wherein the ALUMNUS for so many years was slapped, spoonfed and coaxed into life, and circulation. 
But, more likely, the reason is environment. When the Alumni Office, long crushed into too-little space, packed up its card files and addressograph plates in 1947 and started away, the journey was short — just around the comer to the onetime throne-room—Carroll Hall, Main Building, First Floor, West. 
And thus it happens that Professor Stritch and the Managing Editor of the ALUMNUS are neighbors. (The environment factor enters.) And as good neighbors will, they do often have conversation. 
The Student Section of this ALUMNUS is one of the fruits—pleasant and healthful we hope—of such neighbor­liness and conversation. 
This is the way we talked one day: Notre Dame student life today is changed—changed quite obviously from what it was in the halcyon days before World War 1, changed, but not so obviously, from the fast-growing 1920s'—the days of the original "cardboard pal­ace". Freshman Hall, and its mate. Sophomore Hall, and the era of O. A. Clark's campus cafeteria. Student life to­day is even changed, in ways sometimes hardly perceptible to the non-resident, from the depression-bound 1930s'. 
And Notre Dame, the school, is different too. It's matured. True, there has been growth, almost phenom­enal growth, in the numbers of students, in faculty, in plant and facilities. But it's not the mere growth that we want to point up: it's the new life on the campus. 
In short, what Professor Stritch and I hoped to do was interpret a littie the Notre Dame campus of 1949 for the thousands who hadn't seen it of late, or who, seeing it, haven't realized the changes. 
And who, we thought, could mirror this change, paint this new, larger canvas more effectively, than the students who are today, now, living the newer Notre Dame life? 
Tom Brady, who supervised the student work. Bob Azar, Jim King, Louis Rukavina, John Carol, Richard McCarthy, John Sullivan and Frederick George—these are the Journalism students who did it all. Under the dircc-' tion of Professor Stritch, but in no wse "under his thumb", they pubfished tiie entire Student Section of this ALUMNUS —from ideas to the final reading of page proofs. They chased down pictures and photographers, sought out pro­fessors and students, laid out their seventeen pages, dealt with the engravers and printers. 
And so this Student Section tiiat follows is theirs, and we think that you'll like it that way. AVhat they say isn't necessarily what the editors of the ALUMNUS would say in the same kind of stories. That doesn't matter. We wanted you to know a littie more what Notre Dame is like today, and we wanted you to see it through the eyes of some splendidly representative students of today. 
We're grateful to them and we hope tiiat you \rill Kke what they've done.—^W.R.D. 
l^^i 
m 

4 '*^^^^ O 
'^^ 


NOTRE DAME: 
THE POST-WAR OUTLOOK b/BobAzar 
Four thousand seven hundred and fifty-six students to­day make up the largest student body in Notre Dame historj'. Many alumni are wondering what effect this tre­mendous increase has had, what changes have been made, and what kind of life the post-war student is finding here. They're wondering if mass education has twisted the per­sonal tradition of Notre Dame education into an assembly line process. -,. 
Fortunately for the students of today, Notre Dame is not an educational factory. It tries not to place its ma­terials in a mold and shape identical products. It tries not to lead its students into doing, thinking and acting the same as everyone else. It does not know them by a number alone. Many modern universities do have such stereotyping. For Notre Dame, post-war education means handling more people than are normally handled, more than the physical plant can comfortably handle—not a change in way of life, teaching methods or teaching quality. The greatest change has come in living conditions. The major need is new physical equipment to give students and teachers a chance to live and work under the best conditions possible. 
The typical student of prewar days lived in a single room. The student of today lives doubled-up. Where one was, two or three now are. Residence halls, dining halls, chapels feel the pinch of over-capacity. 
A significant change is the preponderance of men in science and engineering; liberal arts, formerly double all other, is now only third in total enrollment. The faculty has added over two hundred new professors, creating new courses, new sections of courses. Some really large classes, convene in the Engineering Auditorium, the only place big enough to handle them. Science and engineering lec­tures. Dr. Gurian's popular politics class, and the Journal­ism-cultural-historical-film series are held there. With a. rostrum on stage, and a projector for audio-visual aid, the room lends itself effectively to teaching a large group. 
Though Notre Dame has spilled over in South Bend more than at any time since the late twenties, it still re­mains a campus school, a separate city, apart, dedicated. It is still an organic community, though Father John Cava­naugh probably knows the names of fewer students than his namesake of 1920. 
CROWDED LINES COVER THE DRILL HALL AS RECORD NUMBER OF STUDENTS REGISTER 
" Whither American 
Education?" by Thomas Brady 
What is modem American education? It is many things. It is classrooms overflowing wt h students. It is a thousand courses in a thousand subjects. It is IBM machines spewing out unchangeable class schedules and student rolls. It's long lines, crowded dormitories, jammed buses, and a two­
•wreek's
wait for laundry. It is courses run by the syllabus, to 

•which
 both professor and student bow in helpless self de­fense. It is departmental examinations. It is every English class covering the same material as every other English class. It is bewildered students, and harried professors, "trying to learn, and trying to teach, but having trouble finding ground to stand on. 


American education is no longer the "Mark Hopkins on a log" thing that it was even twenty years ago. All but vanished are the days when a professor and his students formed a small, give-and-take, intimate group. Professor and student meet in dass—^and that's about all. The stu­dent is just a name, and the professor has three himdred other names to remember. If one attends class, reads the book, and passes the exams, the course is done. 
Most of the time you hardly know the fellow living in the next room, or across the hall. You have your own small group, because there's a lot of people around, and you can't know every one. There are a himdred changeling fraternities in a school where no one wants a fraternity. 
Many educatoh are aware of the dangers of mass edu­cation, and try to prevent miiversities from turning into be­hemoths like the Universities of California or Illinois, but are often powerless to stop the pix)cess, or at least check it in its most dangerous aspects. If a school has room for one hundred students, and finds itself with one hundred-twenty-five, it is crowded, and either the personal treat­ment so vital to education must go, or the extra students must be turned away. Schools have been hard put to absorb the flood of returning veterans to the campus, and with the promise of governmental subsidy, the future presents a nightmarish problem. 
Unless American education can expand evenly in all directions-by procuring more and better facilities, the uni­versity as it existed in 1940 will be irretrievably gone. The question becomes one of whether true education—educa­tion which reaches deeply, valuably, and permanently into the lives of those who receive it—can survive. Will there be the room, the time, or the desire, for a genuine love of school? Will the future .student be able to recall his col­lege days as something more than a period of training, a bothersome but necessary grind spent in learning how to make more money than the next fellow? 
THE 

HUMANITIES 
Create New Intellectual Spirit at Notre Dame 
by Jim King and Louis Rukavina 
Arts and Letters' 17 departments and Commerce's four are today pretty much what they were 25 years ago. Both colleges have held on to basic requirements in religion, philosophy, English and the social sciences. The first two years are still general education; the last two mostly spe­cialization in a major subject. The tendency on the one hand to greater specialization has been resisted; but so has its opposite, longer and stronger general education. 
New winds do blow, however. The breeze-like murmiu: of merger of Arts and Letters with Science has grown to a steady current. Even its strongest adherents admit that the chief objection is a mechanical one, just the knotty prob­lem of arranging programs, re-organizing. The department­al grooves are well-worn and rather comfortable after all these years. 
From another quarter the Great Books influence blows steadily, stirring many changes. Freshman English has shifted aWay from "rhetoric and composition" to reading and understanding literary classics from Sophocles to King Lardner. Sophomore English permits qualified students to substitute world classics for the familiar path from Beo­wulf to Hardy. The College of Law requires seminars in the Great Books of its freshmen and juniors. There is hope­ful talk of a new inter-departmental four-year course in Arts and Letters in the Great Books. And everywhere in­formal non-credit Great Books sessions spawn. 
Departments are moving \vith the times. Veterans had clamored for courses on communism, in the history of the war, in international affairs, in Central and South Ameri­can countries. They goth them, and packed them.. Mr. Gurian's course in The Rise of Marxism has 127 students this semester. Realization of the serious role the U. S. must play in world affairs is reflected in other crowded courses in history and political science. 
Three full years of Religion are now required, \vith the emphasis on Christian living in modem society. Elec­tive courses in Christian marriage, family problems and Christian leadership are booming. 
In Modem Language there is a new, more practical approach—solid grounding in converstation and reading rather than long, tedious drills in the more precise, but less useful, aspects of grammar. Journalism has had its face lifted toward the study of contemporary civilization, realiz­ing that complex modem society requires reporters and critics who know principles as well as practices. Sociology, 
JUNE GRADUATES try out thdr caps and gowns on their way to the Washington Day exerdses held in Wash­ington Hall. This year marked die lOOdi observance of this custom. 
NAVY AND AIR CORPS Reserve units train reserve officers over a four-year program in' addition to dieir regular studies. 
political science and education are expanding, meeting to­day's needs with new courses, new teachers. 
The syllabus and its bedfellow, the departmental exami­nation, have become the symbols of the new courses. Stu­dent notebooks bulge with the blue-prints of new courses tentatively spun out by a faculty reaching out to better methods and better texts. More and more departments are giving common examinations for all students taking the same course. This has the merit of setting a steady pace; the disadvantage of too much sameness. 
Probably the greatest change in student study habits is in outside readings. The new syllabi and examinations are based to a considerable degree on a range of reading far beyond what was required of the student of the 20's and 30's. Notre Dame has become to a greater and greater ex­tent Newman's idea of a Library in the midst of a dedi­cated community of young men. 
Students in the Humanities write as never before. Long papers, short pajjers, term papers flow in unending stream. One big diflference in student written work is that a much greater amount of it is now tj'ped than there was even five years ago. The typewriter is coming to be a badge of the modem student, more so than his textbooks. 
Consequently the University library has mushroomed. Its staff has increased to fortj' full-time employees; it and its 13 branches bulge with over 400,000 volumes. A new reading room has been set up in the north basement; all the reading rooms are always crowded, and the reserve desks are doing the briskest business they have ever known. The establishment of the Mediaeval Institute and the growth of graduate work in all departments depend to a great extent on the strength and services of the Library. That it has kept satisfactory pace is a big accomplishment to contemporary Notre Dame. 
Study and work in the humanities has a way of stimu­lating student extra-curricular activity. It gets over into student creative writing. Scrip has been succeeded by a revived Juggler, shorn of its two-line jokes and cartoons, made into one of the best college literary magazines. The Scholastic is looking better all the time, its photographs top-notch, its editing surer. The Dome is having the hardest 
THE NEW RADIO STATION, WND, broadcasts news, music, sports, and discussions from die fieldhouse. 
sledding; every\vhere yearbooks are finding the going hard because of their cost. 
The debating team is in one of its great periods, with three years of triumph behind it. Glee Club and Band are flourishing, making long and well-received concert tours, using new and fresh music. The University Theater is show­ing signs of revived life, and there is a general interest in keeping up the practice, so brilliantly begun by last June's graduate, Edward Cashman, of an original student musi­cal every year. 
The liveliest hum of activity is in the lecture-and­discussion branch. Many departments sponsor a series of discussion for all interested students, meeting in the even­ings. These talks and ^v^angles feature inter-departmental cooperation: philosophy, history and political science meet here on common ground. Lecturers from other universities, from the arts, from science come more and more frequent­ly: Maritain, Gilson, Waugh, Chamberlin, Urey, Comp­ton, Mrs. Luce are only a few. The Albemi Trio and an opera. The Barber of Seville, are only two of a dozen good music programs. 
The Review of Politics, which celebrates its tenth an­niversary this year, has consistendy reflected the best work of Notre Dame in the humanities. It is only the crest of a great wave of intellectual life which is sui^ g through an old University always eager to be reborn. 
ART STUDENTS PRACTICE drawing live modek. 
MOCK TRIALS GIVE futune lawyers a diance to prac­
Classes in Art include' painting, ceramics, and sculpture. 
tice court procedure widi judge, jury, and witnesses. 
The 
SCIENCES 
PACE NOTRE DAME DEVELOPMENT 
by John Carrol 
All Notre Dame students work harder now than they did 
ten, t^venty years ago. Probably students everywhere do. 
Maybe it's the veteran influence. Maybe it's the sobering 
reflection that the average U. S. citizen has got to know 
more if he is to accept the new responsibilities thrust upon 
him. Maybe it's just that there's more to know: all the 
branches of knowledge have seen a lot of discoveries since 
1930. Things are more and more analyzed, specialized, in 
the sciences particularly. 
Engineers still say they work harder than anyone else, and they probably do. At 5 p. m. on a brisk winter evening the skating is fine over on St. Mary's Lake, and at the "Rock" the showers are just beginning to crowd up with men down from the basketball and handball courts. But up in the spacious Electrical Engineering lab, double-E students are working out a problem in transformer opera­tion. Groups of four or five men are gathered around each of the big transformers. While one man watches the dial that registers RPM's, another watches a big dial on the floor; a third watches the main dial and handles the two big switches. A recorder stands by with a clip board to write down the figures the others call out to him. 
Down the hall another group of double-E's are using a set of metal bo.xes that have a screen like a radar scope on one end. As they move the controls, a green line dances around on the scope, forming apparently random patterns. They're learning to use the oscilloscope, an instrument for measuring wave frequencies. 
With twenty-five to thirty hours a week in class and labs fstudenb! say their e.xtra time makes it closer to forty than thirty) the slide-rule and test-tube men have to hustle if they want to take advantage of the non-academic attractions on the campus. Their study habits have tradi­tionally been respected by their non-scientific hallmates. In the past few years, though, there is a suggestion that they've had to keep hurrying just a little more all the time. 
Dr. Karl Schoenherr, Dean of Engineering since 1945, doesn't say much about this. He's busy with an 8 to 6 work­day of his own. But over in the College of Science Father Henry Bolger, C.S.C, (ND, '24) speaks from long Notre Dame experience. Father Bolger, head of the Physics de­partment, says flatly that in the past ten or fifteen years science studies at ND have become a lot tougher. 
The mortality rate seems to bear him out. It isn't un­usual for a freshman physics class to have thirty to fifty per cent failures; mathematics failures are high, too. Fresh­man chemistry averages twenty-five per cent. (A chem major says, "Maybe. But they flunked about fifty per cent in one of my junior courses last semester.") Usually the 
DR. STEPANOS KALOAPAILA demonstrates appar­
atus to a hydraulics class in die engineering laboratory. 
canvas-kissers pick themselves up and, with the help of 
the University Guidance Center, discover aptitudes for 
non-scientific study. 
At Notre Dame, as elsewhere, science is setdi^ the pace in the present development, physically as well as academically. Undergraduate enrollment in the College of Science is up over fifty per cent in the. past ten years, and Engineering enrollment has doubled. During the same time, undergraduates in Commerce and Arts and Letters have increased by only about fifteen to twenty per cent Science and Engineering have added to their faculties correspond­ingly. And, of course, the top project on the building roster right now is the new science building. 
While they wait for the new building. Dr. Andrew. Boyle (ND, '28) says the chem department is breaking out at the seams. The old chemistry building was designed to house five or six hundred undergraduates. Now they have t^velve to fourteen hundred in chem courses, and they've had to turn over about sixty per cent of their floor space to research work. Dr. Boyle says that it's convenience rather than quality of education that suS°ers. Students agree, but say that they have to waste a lot of valuable time waiting in line to use scarce facilities. 
Science study is an expensive business. Equipment is costly, and it's often highly expendable. War surplus has been a great boon to Notre. Dame, .as to many other schools. They've picked up lathes, milling machines, grind­ers, electronic equipment and many other things. There's still much to be obtained, though: such things as measuring instruments, equipment for a new hydraulic lab, animal houses, special glassware for the Chemistry Department. Down in the big machine shop they can show you a ninety year old planer they're still using. 
You find two programs, now, in biology where only one bloomed before—botany and zoology. Ten new under­graduate courses may be elected. The pre-med student still finds his course pays off: their med-school reconls and commendations are a fine testimony of ~ this. Many pre-' meds sent here from other schools by the Navy chose to continue their course here after they were free to go back to the schools where they started. 
The Department of Architetture has made a double switch in the past few years—cutting dovyn to four years at 
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH at Notre Dame continues to expand in all directions as more and more equipment is obtained. 
PROFESSOR ARTHUR REYNIERS (left) and assist­ants prepare a germ-free cage. The rubber gloves are used to work on animals living inside the cage. 
ENGINEERING STUDENTS inspect a new lathe cently installed in the engineering building. 
the beginning of the war, and now going back to the five year course again. The main emphasis in the extra year is on the engineering side of architecture. Enrollment has mushroomed; there's a new look to the building from the east, with the new cinder-block addition for added draft­ing room space. 
With a faculty more than doubled in the past ten years, most College of Engineering departments have added undergrad courses. They're preparing the highway engi­neer to meet the post-war world with a new elective in airport design and construction. In the Aero Engineering department they get right to the heart of the matter. The new elective in flight aerodynamics gives the student about ten hours "stick time" in the air—proving for himself the classroom principles of aerodynamics. 
Most of the departments are making the old senior thesis research problems an elective or doing away with them entirely. At the new soils lab they've started a teach­ing-research experiment. CE's Professor LeRoy Graves is directing a group of picked seniors in an original research project on stresses in foundation soils. If they're successful. Professor Graves hopes to publish the findings. 
The war jumped the number of students taking and planning to take graduate work—with a certain amount of good effect on their undergraduate scholarship. The trend is apparently falling off already, though. Faculty men point to the large number of schools having a hard time getting the graduate students they need for research. Bulletin boards are littered with announcements from Hopkins, MIT, Stanford. A good graduate student is as hard to find as a good halfback, and much more expensive to maintain. Competition for good students is keen. A first-rate college student who wants to go on to graduate rvvork can almost write his own ticket. 
Undergrads are demonstrating their enthusiasm for what they're doing by the support of things like the campus units of the engineering professional societies—the Ameri­can Society of Civil Engineers, the Institute of Radio Engineers, and many others. The societies are non-social, stricdy technical, professional groups. 
ND science mcH, unlike those of some universities, are still part of the student complex. There's a healthy hall inter-action between them and their AB brothers. Engineers run the Student Relief campaign, the campus radio station, and even write songs. College of Science's George Schrodt, with the top average in the Jime, '49 class, acted as chair­man of the Washington Day exercises. Seven varsity foot­ball men spend their class time on the far east side of the campus—^including co-captain-elect Leon Hart, a mechani­cal engineer. 
When you ask College of Science faculty men how the education here stacks up with that at other schools they point to the wartime Navy program, with the large number of transfer students it brought. ND students measured up as well as the outsiders and in many cases better. 
Engineering's Dean Karl Schoenherr is normally a mild man, but he gets rather emphatic when he tells you, "I believe we are just about as good as any school you can name." He reminds you that the enlarged faculty makes it possible for each instructor to specialize more in his own field—and that it has made new courses possible. 
"Our big job now," he adds, "is getting people to realize what we have here." 
Mk 
v/ \ 
\ 
5^ '':^^ 

^ •.. ^ 
I-ir^­
',1^' 
r^Aus^. 
'X 
%: 
.*---^^3?^i^-l 
'r^>^^ 

Winter Chronicle 
Winter came this season bearing olive branches and an apologetic note from the weather man reading: "Any similarity between this and any other winter is purely co­incidental." It finally got rolling along in December, and gave 'til it hurts. 
The "Any similarity between this, etc.," is a concession to older grads who will remember longer, colder winters. This one will be remembered for other things. . . . 
On cold mornings, John Q. Notre Dame walks rapidly, slanting into the wind that whips across the Bog, to break­fast in the dining hall. He wears an army parka, a fur-lined flight jacket, a pea-coat, or a store-bought mackinaw. A glance at the coat rack would cause the uninitiated to 
h^ ^\c\\axA McCarthy 

think a meeting of the combined armed forces was taking place. After standing in a long line and having his cafe­teria-style breakfast, he is off to class. If 8 o'clock finds him in the Social Science buildii^, 9 o'clock is sure to find him in the Biology building .. . if he hurries. Going through all this, he makes a silent promise that he'll arrange a bet­ter schedule next semester . . . next semester is always going to be different, and better, somehow. 
Basketball officially opened the snow-and-cold season, and the Irish dropped the opener to Illinois, 59-58, in an overtime. . . . John Q. learned that 7 p. m. is none too early to claim a seat, though tip-off time is not 'til 8 p. m. So—he spends the hour before game time reading anything 
from Shakespeare to The History of Economic Thought, 
or playing hearts. 

Christmas vacation followed on the heels of basketball. 
The Student Council appealed for an earlier take-off date 
but lost. Some boys saved their cuts and got away early, 
only to be stopped by blizzards raging in the East. Late or 
not, it was still good to be home. After a brief acquaintance 
with the new year came the return to school and final 
exams. 

Almost everybody could write home, "Look, Ma, I'm dancin'." The Sophs held their Cotillion; the ROTC's followed with their annual Naval Ball. The Engineers came up with a revival of their annual ball, topped off with a Slipstick Hop the next night at the Progress Club. Not to be outdone, the University's Air ROTC Unit spon­sored its second annual Military Ball in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel. And just before commencement, the January grads started a precedent with their dance—a wistful June setting in a wild January night. 
Day by day the little things remain the same . . . but there are extras to make each seem different. Friday night you'll find John Q. douTi at Rosie's for spaghetti and a couple of brews; Saturday night might be spent at the movies in Washington Hall, or downtown at the Strat or the Lido. Sometimes during the week you'll find him at Bill LaFortune's for braimschweiger, beer, and a bull ses­sion. The extras include things like The Milky Way put 
KEVIN O'SHEA SINKS one from the free-throw line for Notre Dame against Wisconsin. Irish won, 60-54. 
on by the Univenaty Theatre in Washington Hall, basket­ball games, lectures. Among the latter were talks by Morti­mer Adler, of the University of Chicago; Mrs. Clare Booth Luce; Father Patrick Peyton, C.S.C.; and Evelyn Waugh, internationally famous novelist. The red neon TONIGHT has been on very frequently at Washington Hall this winter. Music, too: The Barber of Seville, the Alberni Trio, and several piano-vioUn concertos by the music department's staff. 
Activity in the Rock reaches the saturation point every afternoon in the week . . . action in the noisy, sweat-and­soap atmosphere takes minds off classes temporarily. Hand­ball courts are usually filled and in heavy demand . . . 
sudden-death basketball games rage overhead, and below, swimmers and divers splash chlorinated water over flesh and tile. Off the beaten path, the punch and judo boys, looking toward the Bengal Bouts, feint and jab their way around the bo.xing room. 
Indiana is not the stuff ice carnivals are made of, but a hockey rink adorns St. Mary's lake whenever the ice is good enough. You can't count on it though—one day it is a solid and the next a liquid. Unfortunately it was a liquid the day of the Ice Breaker, Notre Dame's first winter carnival, and skating was scratched from the sched­ule of activities. 
Day after day there is unity in variety . . . moods, talk, clothes change and stay . . . different pictures in the same frame. One guy is happy because the familiar clomp-clomp of the mail man was followed by the exciting sss-lip of a letter under the door — another guy is sad. Some guys get a letter every day . . . they laugh and say, "Some guys got it, and some ain't." It's funny, too, the way slang ex­pressions start and catch on. Somebody started the greet­ing of, "Zeke, you babe!"... now everybody's doing it. The "herd instinct," the sociology books calls it. Whatever it is college boys have it. Peak caps, pipes, heavy-soled shoes, yellow corduroys—they all get a play, and die. Room dec­orations mean so much, too. Nobody but a square would be without Stop and Go signs, 49 pictures of Rita Hay­worth, and the latest Billy Eckstine record. Sometimes the halls are noisy, sometimes not. 
Friday and Saturday are dress-up nights, white shirts sometimes stretching over into Monday. On these nights the halls are strangely mute . . . the quiet broken only by a radio playing somewhere down the hall—somebody missed his Mass checks. 
Everywhere the new meets with the old: smooth-faced freshmen make the old dog veteran stand out from the rest. It makes you wonder which is the anomaly; the vet probably . . . for things are getting back to normal. Over in the Main Building there is a new classroom, the Audio-Visual. Seats bear no scratching, no pen-knifed reminders of Gipp, or Murphy-'35, and there are red wool curtains on the windows to keep out the light for the showing of movies. Education is given a new t\vist in this classroom as sight and sound take the place of prof and books. 
Three times a morning the Huddle fills to its doors with late risers for breakfasts of coffee and . . . the juke bo.x has a new record, Tex Beneke's Bye Bye Blues. At night, it's the Caf that claims the crowd—hamburgers, milk shakes, and coffee being the objects of an en masse fac­simile of raiding the ice bo.x. This is the routine that John 
Q. will remember . . . along with the extras. He will re­member that late in February there was the Mardi Gras which added a lively, carnival spirit to the winter . . . how the drill hall was for two nights transformed into an exciting midway, with booths, chance wheels, barkers, mu­sic and dancing. Then he'll remember that the solemn period of Lent began . . . and how he looked forward to Easter. 
And now February is over— 
Basketball is winding up the season . . . first call for baseball players has been made . . . Bengal Bouters are training in earnest, and golf clubs and tennis rackets are being taken hopefully out of the moth balls. Winter is almost over . . . Spring is on deck. But the weather can change everything. It usually does. That's Indiana for you. 
1 ^v •?' r'*i"^ 
m 
^ 
^•^1 
I • t 
( 
I 

Student Family
 by John Sullivan 

John J. Kowalczyk, nick-named Zeke, and Doris, his wife, were sitting in their five room section of Vetville, Notre Dame's GI housing unit. It was small, warm, and neat. Judith, their two-month old daughter was in bed, and John, Jr., going on two years, was romping around—^blonde, laughing, getting mixed up in everything. They were wait­ing for company—three campus friends from Sorin—and there was beer in the icebox, and a light lunch, already prepared by Doris, on a big plate in the kitchen. Later there would be conversation, the radio, the Job of putting John, Jr., to bed, and the beer and lunch. It was Vetville in 1949—pleasant and friendly, and the only thing that looked like worry or trouble was that the lamp young John was playing with teetered, and rocked slightly. 
Zeke is "a blonde, 25-ycar-old ax-first sergeant from Brooklyn. Big—6 ft. 2", 210 pounds—good-looking, and easy-going, he has the quiet reserve that goes with a good-sized man. A sort of rela.xed deliberation marks his activity. He never seems to force the issue—takes things in his slow, methodical stride. Right now he looked the paragon of contentment and ease. He was sitting there in the chair, laughing at the antics of John, Jr., and waiting for his friends. He was relaxed and happy, the 1949 edition of Mr. Young Veteran, college style, who still had his prob­lems, but who finally had both feet planted, and who knew, new, where he was headed. He also knew how he was going to get there. 
It wasn't always so. Zeke got his nickname, which is a corruption of the 
last four letters of his surname, back in 1941, when he first came to Notre Dame from Brooklyn Technical High School, a 17-year-old freshman. He had enrolled in me­chanical engineering, and lived in old Brownson Hall, which has since been turned into offices. 
In 1941, Zeke went through the last phase of pre-war Notre Dame. He struggled a bit \vith his studies, enjoyed the plethora of good food and the big, fat pitchers of milk which were then served in the Dining Hall, and played freshman football for a month or so. He and 3,300 other students were going along in the routine that was synonym mous with the Notre Dame of the '20's and '30's—the casual, unhurried routine. that was soon to give way to marching Navy and Marine trainees, to the cafeteria system in the Dining Hall, and to year-round studies. Zeke watch­ed football, and played handball at the Rock, but he listened to the undertone that was growing daily. "I just got my draft notice." "I'm 1-A." "I think I'll join the Marines . . . the Air Corps." "The Navy just took over Howard." "Boy, is it crowded here now!" I'll bet there're 4,000 guys on the campus." 
Fellows dropped out, and the civilian population was cut in half. Early in 1943, after finishing two years of school work, Zeke enlisted in the Army. 
He went into the Engineers Corps and spent two years in the States. Just before leaving for Korea, he married Doris Corry, a pretty Irish girl from his neighborhood back home. In the spring of 1946, after a year overseas, he finally had enough points to come home. At that time he 
THE KOWALCZYKS AT HOME. In 1949, with Doris, Judith, and J. J., Korea seems far away to Zeke. 
was first sergeant of liis outfit, the 1108th Engineers Com­bat Group. He was discharged March 29, 1946. 
He returned to Notre Dame in January' of 1947, and, after a month of college, was a confused, puzzled fellow. In the .4rmy, you think, and you plan, and you day-dream, and sometimes tliosc day-dreams come spilling down all over you when you get out. Ever\'thing doesn't go gliding along as it should, as it did in the dreams, and you worr)'. Zeke made his plans, and, like others, saw them troubled and threatened. 
In the first place, lie had to come back to Notre Dame alone. The housing situation in college towns was terrible. At Notre Dame it was helped a little by the GI unit, Vet-ville, but there were dozens trying to get in, and it was all filled when Zeke got here. He couldn't find an apart­ment in South Bend at all, and, with Doris in BrookljTi, his thoughts were more in the direction of Prospect Park than the Engineering Building. He began to worry, ask questions. Some of them he asked out loud, to old friends from Brownson. 
"I'm getting mixed up. Sometimes I don't think that I'm in the right course. Mechanical seems dull . . . not interest­ing at all. I wonder if I would be better off in Aeronautical, or in Architecture. I always thought I'd like Architecture. I wonder when I'll ever find an apartment?" 
He had been handy with a slide-rule and a bunch of numbers ever since high school. His drafting was neat, and 
ZEKE TACKLES a problem in Architectural design. After graduation, he hopes to put his knowledge into work which will bring more than "A's." 
he seemed to like this side of engineering more than any other, but now he was confused. \Vas it because of Doris being away that he felt tired with mechanical engi­neering, or was it because he was really not cut out for it? These were the questions he asked. Who had the answers? 
Priest and professor, long used to adolescents, didn't know how to respond at first. Later, through months of running into the same problems, they began to under­stand, and to give sound help. But Zeke realized who had the answers. You have to have them yourself. You had to dig" your own way out. 
The first big lift came in the fall of 1947. He found a little apartment. Doris came out with baby John, Jr., born the previous June. She was a wonderful help, and Zeke perked up immediately. ^Vith his family here, he could look at his engineering difficulties more clearly. 
One afternoon, after they had unpacked and settled down a bit, he asked Doris what she would think if he changed courses. 
"Change to what? Do you want to give up engi­neering?" 
"Yes, I'd like to go into architecture. I think I'd like it better, and I'm sure I'd do a better job there, too. But I'd have to stay in college another year or so . . . maybe even two years. Would you mind?" 
(Continued on Page 16) 
*a . "••'« 
r^ 

ZEKE EYES DAY'S HOMEWORK DURING LUNCH AS JOHN JR. EYES SANDWICH 
DAILY TRIPS to the post office give Mrs. Kowalczak a PILING BOXES is part of Zeke's part-time job at the chance to take the children for an outing and pick up U. S. Rubber Company in Mishawaka. He usually works the mail. more than five hours a day. 
" 'Course not, if that's what you want- But have you definitely made up your mind? Are you sure about this?" 
Zeke made sure. He took aptitude tests at the newly established Veterans' Testing Bureau; he saw a couple of professors and he talked to some of the fellows who were in architecture. He talked it over with Doris again and again, and finally switched. It was going to take him a little longer to get his degree, but he was going after what he wanted. This was in February, 1948. Shortly afterwards, the Ko­walczyks got another break. 
Their dowTitown apartment—if you can call a couple of tiny rooms an apartment—was what plenty of veterans' families had to put up with. It was out on the edge of town —Zeke had to change buses a couple of times to get to school^and it was prett}' bad living. They had to share a kitchen with another couple: Doris had a long way to go for her shopping; John, Jr., a normal young fellow who needed plenty' of elbow room, was limited. With hous­ing conditions the way tliey were in college towns, they considered themselves fortunate, but Vetville was really where they wanted to be. 
In late February of 1948,' right after Zeke changed his course, their application to Vet\alle went through, and they moved. Their new house was unit 12-C, right do\vn the street from the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. 
They now began the routine of Vetville living that has, during the past few years, become integrally wrapped up with life at Notre Dame. Doris made friends with other wives; Zeke got himself a big drawing board and set it up in one of the bedrooms; John, Jr., found the nearest mud puddle, and dove in. The architecture was coming along fine—he liked it immediately. For entertaimentj they oc­casionally went to a show, when they could find a baby sitter. Soon they became citizens of a unique little com­munity. 
They got the Vet Gazette^ ^\Titten by the Vetville fami­lies, with its news, its gossip, and its "Kitchen Komer," a "my favorite recipe" column, done by the various wives. They met the Vetville mayor, and his council, and later on voted in the election of the next mayor. They met Father Hesburgh and Father Bailey, the chaplains of the community, who patiently listened to their troubles, oc­casionally gave advice, and proved to be wonderful guides for everyone. 
Vetville became an articulate community. They had their parties—a few get-togethers at night for the grown­ups, and Christmas, Hallowe'en, and birthday parties for the kids. They persuaded the bus company to extend its Notre Dame route around the Stadium to Farley Hall. They even got themselves a special Mass on Sunday. The children were making quite a bit of noise in Sacred Heart church, so diey asked for a Mass to which they could bring the youngsters, and not be embarrassed by the occa­sional out-bursts. It is said Sunday, at 9 a. m., in Farley Hall chapel. There is no ceiling on noise in Farley. 
Problems for tlie Kowalczyks—the big, troublesome problems—were swallowed up in the routine of Vetville. The Army, and the confusion that was army-bred, were behind. John, Jr., was growing fast, and his circle of friends included the youngster next door, the Brother at the post office, where Doris took him ever>' day at 4 p. m. for the mail, and the '41 boys in Sorin. Pencils, T-squares, and books on drafting took their place in 12-C along with John, Jr.'s clothes and toys, with the Scholastic, and the Gazette, with liverwurst and breaded pork chops, favorites of Zeke, and with their campus friends, who dropped over now and then. 
Today, the picture hasn't changed too much. There are, however, three big additions. One is a blue-eyed, four­months-old baby girl, Judith, who was bom last November on the same day that Princess Elizabeth of England had her baby. The second is a part-time job for Zeke at Ball Band, the U. S. Rubber plant in nearby Mishawaka; the third is a bicycle, which he uses to go from 12-C to the Architecture Building, where he spends all of his on-campus time. 
Right now, in class, he models clay, does free-hand drawing, and goes steadily and methodically along the road that will, in 1950, bring him his degree in architec­tural design. After that he hopes to work for a registered architecture conunission.This comes only after an exami­nation, and three years apprenticeship, but Zeke has learn­ed to wait. . . has learned that the good things come hard. 
As it has been with so many other veterans and their wives, Vetville, whether at Notre Dame or Southern Cali­fornia, is the home Zeke and Doris know best. It is where Judith was bom, where John, Jr., grew up, and where architecture came into Kowalczyk's life for the first time. 
It is where a young family is growing up together. 
ZEKE WAVES GOODBYE to his family as he leaves 
APRON PARTIES such as diis give Vetville wives a
for work in the evening. 

chance to get together for talk, refreshments, and talk. 
^i'l 
Isfe 
"X 
.^-S 

LETTERS FROM HOME KEEP ANDY SLEIGH THINKING OF JUNE AND HIS FIRST VACATION 
FRESHMAN-1949 
by Frederick George 
Andrew Sleigh, Jr., 18, a smiling, freckled Irishman from Weston, West Virginia, came to Notre Dame—he and 1,400 other freshmen—and right away found out that the new life wouldn't be all roses and candy, that things would get tedious sometimes. On opening day he worked his way through a long line to pay tuition, room, and board. He stood in another line to fill out blanks and get his assignment to classes. Then he had to stand in more lines to get his books, to get his lunch, even to make his Mass checks. Andy wondered if this was the hopped-up system of mass education he had heard about; the assembly-line system wt h little pampering and less individual at­tention. 
But even though Andy may have felt like just another guy among many, just a cog in a machine, he soon found that it wasn't hard to get acquainted. He moved into Farley Hall and introduced himself to his hvo roommates: Hank Wanner of Aurora and John Comerford of Joliet, Illinois. With them, he met more friends—the guy from Philadelphia that lives next door, the guy from Seattle fur­ther down the hall, the boys from Memphis and Dallas that sit next to him in logic class, and even the South American that ate next to him in the Dining Hall. There was no stopping the range of new companions, new faces, new names. 
Of course, not everyone was strange to him. He joined the West Virginia Club and found boys from his own re­gion. There were four more from Weston that he knew, and rumors that four more were coming ne.\t year, his brother, Dick, among them. Mass education, yes; but a stranger, not for long. 
The new life isn't all running aroimd; Andy has studies to do. He's taking commerce and hopes to majm* in ac­counting, or maybe finance. Maybe he will be a banker like Andy, Sr.; he isn't sure. 
His studies aren't all conomerce either; there are re­ligion, science, history, philosophy—every one of them in high gear; every one of them changed from what they used to be. This semester, Andy practically lives in the library; he has fourteen outside-readings to do—extra books to be read and examined i^ran. At times he wishes the days were 34 instead of 24 hours long; he could use the extra ten hours very well. For when the lights go out at lip . m., there is supposed to be no more work. Rectors frown on candlelight studying. 
Besides studies, there are other things to get used to. Three times a week his alarm clock jangles out a 6:15 calling; it's time to make a Mass check. And from Farley, on the outskirts of the campus, he walks cross-country to get his breakfast—maybe not like mother used to make because mass production has hit the Dining Hall. 
But after a while, Andy gets into the stride of things. He begins to budget his finances—^which sometimes call for an extra telegram home; he becomes accustomed to the bells that schedule his whole day; he falls in line with the discipline—signs out, returns by midnight. Everything grows on him, becomes a part of him; he doesn't mind it too much. 
In activities, Andy is "like father, like son.", Andy, Sr., ('27) had been a student manager tmder Rockne; Andy, Jr., is a freshman manager and hopes to woric up under Leahy. Most afternoons find him doing everything from is­
MORNING MASS CHECKS are a must diree times a week for Andy and everyone else. Here Andy makes his last weekly check before Mass. 
THE HANDBALL COURTS get a heavy workout dur­ing the winter months. Andy finds time to play about three times a week, usually in the evenings. 
suing football cleats and chasing basketballs to polishing sabres and raking broad-jump pits. During the first two years he mingles with all sports: later, if chosen, he'll be assigned to one sport with specific duties, such as taking care of all equipment or getting hotel reser\'ations for the traveling teams. 
In his spare time, Andy goes to the Rockne Memorial and plays basketball and handball. AVhcn he decides to use his one-midnight-a-week, he takes in a show downtown with tlie boys. There are other things: the football, basket­ball, and baseball games, the band and glee club concerts, lectures, victor)' dances, pep rallies, and the West Vir­gina club's smokers. Ever\' so often, the freshmen throw a picnic or have a get-together with the St. Mar)''s fresh­men. But going "across the way" to St. Mary's is frustrat­ing; Andy went there twice and ever\' girl seemed booked up for four years. 
STUDIES KEEP ANDY close to his desk much of die time. Andy hopes that it's true about the first year being the hardest, but he knows they can't get much tougher. 
Even with all these diversions, there's still that nos­talgia every freshman gets, and Andy is no exception. In all halls, the mailman holds a sacred position. But in Farley, especially in Farley, he can be a god or a demon; a god when he has mail, a demon when he hasn't. For during the first few months, the mail to and from freshman-Farley was so heav)' that, at times, eight mail deliveries were nccessar)', compared to the normal three. Andy himself sometimes whips out eight letters a night: one to Mary hynn, his girl in Weston, one to his parents, and the rest to anyone he can think of. 
Andy always expected to come to Notre Dame; in fact he was preordained here—preordained by his father and a couple of uncles and cousins who are alumni. All of them had told him about "the coldest place in the world" and the time the Gipper rode a white horse up AVashington Hall steps. They told him about their pranks and the old favorite haunts. First day here, Andy's dad took him to the Stratigon—he forgot abou^his son being under-aged; he was probably having fun with memories himself. Andy hasn't been to the "Strat" since. 
But even though Notre Dame runs in the family, even though everything is as expected, it all boils down to this: along with the fun, it's hard; to keep on his feet, he must be aggressive. However, Andy will probably do all right. He's bright, friendly, and knows how to get along; maybe Sister Lucia will be proud of him after all. 
FRESHMAN MANAGER JOB keeps Andy busy most afternoons. Baseball, tennis, golf, and fencing sessions are just getting underway. 
THE NEW HALL telephones enable students to call anyone on or off the campus. Even St. Mary's girls can ANDY AND HIS FRIENDS gather for the inevitable be reached, as Andy soon found out. 
bull session just before lights out. 
COKE MACHINE in Main Building serves over 300 ANDY CHECKS ACCOUNT at student's account win­cokes daily. For those without the coke habit, there's dow. The new IBM machines rarely make a mistake, an ice cream machine nearby. but Andy wants to be sure. 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 
For file First Time 

A Midyear Class Goes Out 
For the first time in its histor>-, Notre Dame on Jan. 29 and 30 conducted a full-scale midyear Commencement. (In the years of World War II, convocations for the awarding of degrees were held at the con­clusion of each semester, but there was not at such times a Commencement in the nor­mal sense of the word.) 
Four hundred and fifty men received de­grees from Rev. John J. Ca\-anaugh, c.s.c, president, on Sunday afternoon, Jan. 30, in the Notre Dame Drill Hall. The Honorable Michael V. DiSalle, mayor of Toledo, O., was the Commencement speaker. 
In the morning of the same day, also in the Drill Hall, the Most Rev. John K. Mussio, M.A., '25, bishop of Steubemnlle, O., delivered the Baccalaureate Sermon for the class as Father John Ca\-anaugh offered the Mass. 
Particularly significant from the wew­point of alumni was the awarding of four honorar)' Doctor of Laws degrees at the Commencement. The recipients, three of them alumni, were Bishop Mussio, Mayor DiSalle, ByTon V. Kanaley, '04, Chicago, and Joseph A. LaFortune, Tulsa, Okla., a Notre Dame student in 1915-16. Both Mr. Kanaley and Mr. LaFortune are members of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees. 
Bishop Mussio was consecrated bishop on May 1, 1945, and was installed as first Bishop of Steuben\nlle on May 23, 1945. He formerly ser^'ed as chancellor of the Archdiocese of Cincinnati. His accomplish­ments include the opening by the Third Order Franciscan Fathers of the College of Steubem-ille in December, 1946. 
Mayor DiSalle, who also is president of the City Council in Toledo's city manager governmental s)'stem, has received wide ac­claim for his inauguration in Toledo of the famed "Toledo Plan for Industrial Peace." The plan features a Labor-Management-Citizens Committee to effect industrial peace and has received nation-wide acclaim. 
Mr. Kanaley, a past president of the Alumni Association, joined the firm of Cooper, Kanaley and Co. in 1910. Since 1930 he has been president of the Chicago Realty Management Corp. Mr. Kanaley is a director of the Chicago Mortgage Bankers Association and is a member of the Chicago Real Estate Board. He served as president of the former organization from 1919 to 1921 and served as president of the Mort­gage Bankers Association of America in 1945 and 1946. Mr. Kanaley is on the executive committee of the Catholic Chari­
ties of the archdiocese of Chicago and the 
F. J. Lcwb Fund for Tuberculous Poor. 
Mr. LaFortune, a native of South Bend, com{^ted a special two-year course in adver­tising and commerce at Notre Dame. He first worked in Tulsa on the staff of the Tulsa World and later on the staff of the Petroleum News. In 1923 Mr. LaFortune became assisant secretary of the Mid^Con­tinent Oil and Gas Association. He later joined the Warren Petroleum Co. as secre­tary" and in 1929 he was named vice-presi­dent of the firm. 
Describing the great need of our time as the "adjustment of our habits of thought and conduct .. . so that we may live in the world as it is today with the least amount of strain and frustration," Mayor DiSalle pointed out that "we have the job of keeping all of the multitudinous aggres­sions of men in balance." 
"We must avoid the tempting invitation to a short cut, for if we are to trade so-called solutions for distatorships we will find our answers a temporary relief and a poor e-vchange for the surrender of indi^dual lib­erties that must necessarily come with the totalitarian state," he emphasized. "The example of other nations who sought to trade democracy for a short-sighted solution is too fresh in our minds to permit us to make the same mistakes." 
Mayor DiSalle, in his address to the Notre Dame graduates, stressed the importance of the "maintenance of our political parties." He explained, however, that "this must be in keeping with the maintenance of a proper and enlightened interest towards govern­ment. 
"The subversion of government for the purpose of developing political parties by the granting of special privileges is a danger to our democracy which is declining as the educational approaches to the problem are developing," he said. "The day of the po­litical organization as a distributor of license and pri\alege, spawning and self-perpetuat­ing on corruption, has disappeared to a large extent, with its total elimination only a mat­ter of time." 
Referring to the relationship of labor and management as one of the most important problems of our time, Mayor DiSalle con­tinued: "The continuance of senseless guer­rilla warfare, tending to the destruction of 
. each, someday will appear as ridiculous as the old custom of trial by battle. The re­alization that each owes an obligation to the public, as well as to each other, must be fostered by an informed people who will not blindly criticise; but who instead will try to understand and assist in achieving a rela­tionship based on a mature approach to a most difiScult problem." 
Bishop Mussio told the graduates that "we live in a time that publicly and ofii­cially boasts that it can do without God." He declared that "we of today have seen in bold outlines the playing out, act by act, of the drama of man's disintegration, the breakdown of the moral order, the gradual encroachment into every phase of our daily living of an insecurity which appalls the imagination of any man who would peer into the future." 
"There is no council, no treaty, no league, no union of nations or of men which can ever hope to realize the cherished dream of all mankind (lasting peace) unless it begins with a full-hearted, sincere and practical acknowledgment of the truth of the simple words of our catechism," Bishop Mussio em­phasized. 
(Continued on Page 31) 

^ ^0^ 
The recipients of honorary degrees with Pother Govonangh on Jan. 30. Uft to tight, Byron V. Kanaley, Joseph A. LaFortune. Bishop John X. Mosno, Father Caronaugh and Mayor HCchoel V. DiSalle. 
Volume 27, No. 2, March-April, 1949 21: 
• <e^> 
-j^r-r^ 

The Alumni Boord ot its meeting oi Jan. 21. Sitting, leit to right, ore Honororr President Harry G. Hogan. Leo B. Ward. IHco-Preaidont Arthur D. Cronin, President Francis Wolloce, Father John Coronough. Vice-President Louis F. BncUay. Bar. Vincmt P. Bruman and James E. Armstrong. Standing, William R. Dooley, John J. Elder, William J. Sherry. Edward J. Beckmon. Joseph M. Bolond. B. Comoy Scoggins, William B. Jones and Bobert T. Hellmng. 
Wallace Is Named President of Alumni 
Francis Wallace, '23, Bellairc, O., nation­ally known author, was elected president of the Alumni Association at the meeting of the Alumni Board on Jan. 21-22 on the campus. Mr. Wallace succeeds Harry G. Hogan, '04, Fort Wayne, Ind., who had been Association president for two years. Mr. Hogan was named honorary president and thus retains his membership on the Board for the current year. 
The following additional officers of the Association were named: Louis F. Buckley, '28, Chicago, first vice-president; Arthur D. Cronin, '37, Detroit, second vice-president; James E. Armstrong, '25, South Bend, sec­retary; and William R. Dooley, '26, South Bend, assistant secretar)-. 
The four new alumni directors, as an­nounced in the January-February ALUMNUS, were all present for the meeting. They are: Edward J. Beckman, '16, PJandome, N. Y.; William J. Sherry, '21, Tulsa, Okla.; R. Conroy Scoggins, '24, Houston, Texas, and William B. Jones, '28, Washington, D. C. Of the fifteen directors, only Paul Mallon, '23, Alexandria, Va., was absent, unavoid­ably. Robert T. Hellrung, '30, St. Louis, a retiring director, was present for the meet­ings and was asked by President Wallace to serve for the year as a special advisor to the Board on clubs, a field to which he has given intensive study and much effort. 
At various sessions of the Board meeting, the directors conferred with Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c, president; Rev. John H. Murphy, c.s.c, vice-president; Rev. Louis H. Thornton, c.s.c, registrar; Prof. James 
A. Reyniers, Raymond J. Donovan, new di­rector of Public Information, Edward W. Krause, assistant director of athletics, Her­bert E. Jones, business manager of athletics, and M. Robert Cahill, ticket manager. 
Especially significant in the business of the Board was the establishment of an Executive Committee to be charged specif­ically with directing the affairs of the Asso­ciation between meetings of the full Board. This committee for the present year will consist of President Wallace, Vice-Presidents Buckley and Cronin and Directors Boland and Elder, with Director Armstrong as alumni secretary serving ex-officio. 
President Wallace announced, in addi­tion, that Vice-President Buckley, during the current year would give special atten­tion to class affairs and class secretaries and that Vice-President Cronin would assist par­ticularly with the Annual Alumni Fund. 
The Board gave complete commendation to the accomplishments of the Notre Dame Foundation; endorsed Universal Notre Dame Night for April 25, which this year will carry out the theme of "Notre Dame and Science"; set Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday for Dec. 11. 
All of which is necessarily only an out­line of what was considered by most Board members present to be the most intensive and productive Board meeting held within their experience. Many reports were heard, suggestions made—even debates staged. The 
results of hours upon hours of high-pressure 
work will be evident as the Alunmi Associa­tion program progresses through the pres­
ent year. 
Coomes Cited For Research 
Dr. Edward A. Coomes, '31, professor of physics, was honored for his research in radar during World War II when he re­ceived a governmental citation in cere­monies at Notre Dame on Mareh 27. 
Dr. Coomes was cited in the citation pre­sented by the Army and Navy Departments for "an outstanding contribution to the work of the Office of Scientific Research and De­velopment during World War II." The cita­tion was signed by Secretary of War Robert 
P. Patterson and Secretary of Navy James Forrestal. Presentation of the citation to Dr. Coomes was made by Col. P. C. BuUard, of Ft. Benjamin Harrison, Indiana, execu­tive of the Indiana Military District. 
Dr. Coomes was granted leave of absence from Notre Dame in 1942 to join the staff of the Radiation Laboratory of the Massa­chusetts Institute of Technology to conduct research in microwave radar. His work con­sisted of development of cathodes for radar transmitter tubes which were requited for such military purposes as aircraft warning systems, radar control of gunfire and aiming systems for high level bombing. He returned to the Notre Dame faculty in 1945. 
Dr. Charles C. Ppce, head of the Depart­ment of Chemistry, received a similar cita­tion last fall. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
contemplating Club movements to any foot­ball game attempt to band together their members' application blanks, forwarding them in a group. Because of the guarantee feature of the Personal-Use application, we have no choice but to honor individual alumni orders before all others. Since the individual orders claim all or nearly all of our allotments, it is not always possible to provide additional tickets to Clubs. 
Clubs conducting promotional activities 
in the interest of the Foundation or schol­
arship funds, and who desire a pair or two 
of tickets for this purpose, should file these 
requests now through the Alumni Associa­
tion. We cannot accommodate such re­
quests once the alumni ticket sale has closed. 
Most alumni who are at all acquainted 
with the ticket situation are probably aware 
that we have been rapidly approaching the 
saturation point the last three years. Alumni 
demand has claimed all of our tickets for 
most of our away-from-home games. Now, 
even the home games approach the point 
where they become almost exclusively stu­
dent-alumni-season ticket affairs. We shall 
continue to favor our alumni as long as it 
is mathematically possible, but the day is 
not far off — perhaps it is already at hand 
— when guarantees to alumni will no longer be possible. We simply ask that you keep this in mind if the Athletic Department and the Alumni Association are not able to sat­isfy your needs in every case. 
You are receiving, as a group, approxi­mately 98 per cent of all the tickets avail­able through your University. Rationing is a harsh word, but that is just exactly what we are doing. While we may not like it as individuals, we should not overlook the fact that we should be grateful to have a team with such tremendous drawing power. It is a healthy situation when our chief worries are not how we can sell our tickets, but rather how we can distribute them. 
The Athletic Department, in general, and the Ticket Office, in particular, would like to tell all of you how genuinely grateful we are for the cooperation and forbearance of Notre Dame men everywhere. We have run into some truly difficult problems in the past several years, what with the extreme demand from all sides, the establishment of the Foundation, and the winning tradition of our varsity. Sometimes we have had to make decisions that were extremely rough on individuals and groups of alumni. Through it all you have been most consid­erate, and we hope such grand cooperation will continue. For our part, we will still try to handle this headache in a fair man­ner and will always be ready to listen to any complaints. 
Camp Marie du Lac 
Camp Marie du Lac, on Lake Michigan, conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, is expanding its program this season in or­der to take a limited number of boys from the ages of five to ten. The girls, as for­merly, arc enrolled from five to fifteen. The new plan is in response to many requests. Further information can be obtained from the Camp Director, St. Mary's CoUege, Holy Cross, Ind. 
Calling All Alumni... 

Football Ticket Information 
Br HERB JONES. '27, and BOB CAHnX. '34 
You may thing it is a little early to be thinking about football tickets, but if our daily mail is any criterion, perhaps we are already a little late with our 1949 version of the loaves and fishes! 
The ticket distribution plan for alumni for this year will be basically the same as in 1948. Extension of the '48 s>-stem was unanimously recommended by your Alumni Board in its Januarj- session. Consequently, we will review here the salient points and indicate the changes for 1949. 
1.
 Alumni sale will open on July 1 and close on July 25. 

2.
 Alumni contributors to the Sixth An­nual Alumni Fund for 1948, plus religious and honorary degree holders, will be eligible for alumni Personal-Use blanks for football tickets. 


You will note that your qualifying con­tribution has been changed to a "year­ahead" basis, as a resiJt of your referendum last year. If you contributed to the 1948 fund, you are considered in good standing for 1949 ticket preference. However, in or­der to accommodate 1949 graduates, a deadline of June 5, 1949, has been set up to 
include these graduates, plus-any other alumni who did not contribute in 1948. No contribution after June 5 will qualify an alumnus for ticket preference for 1949, but 
a contribution any time during 1949 will automatically qualify him for 1950. 
3.
 These Personal-Use application blanks will be mailed prior to July 1 and will be good for a maximum of two tickets for all ten games, at home and away. Or­ders received by July 25 on ALUMNI PERSONAL-USE blanks will be guaranteed against any sell-out. 

4.
 Formerly the ticket office sent out general-use application blanks to all alumni, contributing and non-contributing, in time for the opening of public sale on Aug. 1. This year, please note, general-use applica­tions will be sent to all alumni prior to July 1, and all alumni orders, whether personal-use or not, will be given first consideration until July 25. In other words, the contrib­uting alumnus will receive his guaranteed Personal-Use application blanks plus gen­eral-use applications which he may file in advance of the general public. The non­contributing alumnus will receive general-use applications. 


Of course, the general-use form is not guaranteed against a sell-out and is effective only as long as the ticket supply lasts, after Personal-Use orders have been filled in the preferred locations. 
We should like to point out here that in most cases where we are the visiting team orders from alumni will probably claim our entire allotment. For example: Nav)- at Baltimore, Michigan State at East Lansing, and North Carolina at New York. How­ever, by determining the extent of alumni sale in advance of our customary August 1 opening of public sale, we will be able to know definitely whether or not we can offer tickets to our non-alumni friends. The ad­vance sale will be strictly for Notre Dame alumni. Tickets remaining, if any, after the close of that sale will be made available to non-alumni friends of the University such as Foundation contributors, season ticket holders, etc. 
5.
 Personal-use application blanks are not transferable and will not be honored unless used by the alumnus himself. Gen­eral-use applications are, of course, trans­ferable, but, as noted above, in many cases they will probably be the only applications released for games such as Navy, North Ca­rolina and Southern Methodist. The alum­nus should be certain his own ticket needs are satisfied before he transfers the general-use application forms he will receive. 

6.
 We shall continue to attempt to sat­isfy the demands of Alumni Clubs in the immediate vicinity of games away from home for tickets over and above individual alumni orders. We strongly recommend, however, that the officers of Alimjni Clubs 


GIFTS 
A GIFT of $25,000 was given to the Uni­versity by the Kresge Foundation, Detroit. It was secured through the efforts and co­operation of Paul W. Voorhies, president of the Kresge Foundation, and the Honor­able Harry F. Kelly, '17, a former gover­nor of Michigan, and a Notre Dame Foun­dation committeeman in Detroit 
THE DANTE IIBBABY here was enriched with on elaborately bound volume of "The Divine Comedy", valued at 'several hun­dred dollars. The book was given by John E. Moore. o( Detroit, an alumnus and Foundation governor in Michigan. 
A $5,000 GENERATOR was given to Notre Dame by James and Robert Hamilton, alumni and executives of the Dumore Com­pany, Racine, Wis. 
FOR THE EDUCATION OF PRIESTS Miss Clementine Feldman. Detroit, aunt of Theodore Feldman. '33. gave Moreau Seminary. $1,500. 
A TOTAL of $3,100 was received in 1948 by the Outdoor Advertising Foundation in the College of Commerce. In addition, a student field trip to Adrian, Detroit, and Flint in Michigan was sponsored by James Gerity, Jr., of Adrian. Mr. Gerity is' also the donor of the film, "In Balance." 
Other donations to the College of Com­merce include volumes from Neil Hurley, Chicago, and James P. Colleran, Jr., '35, of Cleveland. 
Volume 27, No. 2, March-April, 1949 
clause by clause traces its devekipment. The 
institutional approach, mth the tatiilimal 
treatment of departments and branches of-. 
the government, is discarded in favor <tf the 

NOTRE DAME BOOKS 
Constitutional approach which brings the 

BUSINESS WRITING, by Charles M. Carey, c.s.c. University of Notre Dame (Book Store). $4. 
Out of his intensive and extensive experi­ence in teaching business English at Notre Dame, Father Carey wrote this needed and attractive volume. The book is admirably adapted, not only for college students, but also for those former college students who need aid almost every day in every-day Eng­lish— and who doesn't? 
The most effective way to point out the substantial usefulness of the book for alumni is to list its chapter headings: Vocabulary, Pronunciation, Review in Grammar, Punc­tuation, Mechanics, Spelling, Oral English, The Make-Up of Business Letters, The Human Element in Letters, Letters of In­quiry, Credit Letters, Collection Letters, Letters of Complaint, Letters of Adjust­ment, Sales Letters, Advertising, The Ap­plication Letter, Business Reports, Com­munication. 
Particularly to be commended is the for­mat of the book. Its layout and type selec­tion add measurably to its worth. Even more helpful are the numerous examples ju­diciously spaced -through the pages. 
Of special interest to the alumni is the dedication of the book —"To Mr. Joseph F.­Donahue, alumnus of the University, who happily has combined sound ethics with good business writing."—W.R.D. 
ACCENT ON PURITY, by Joseph E. Haley, c.s.c. Fides Publishers, South Bend. $2.25. 
Receiving high praise in the Catholic press these days is Father Joseph Haley's new book. Accent on furity, a guide for sex education. 
The Christian Family magazine says, "It is sound in theory and helpful in practical advice. It perhaps is the best book of its kind today." 
The Catholic World, in reviewing the book, declares, "Father Haley . . . out of his experiences as chaplain and personal coun­selor to hundreds of teen-age and college-age boys, has compiled an extremely thor­ough and practical guide . . ." 
Walter Romig in the Michigan Catholic writes, "It is straightforward, practical and thorough." Mr. Romig quotes Father Dan­iel Lord, S.J., as stating, "This book will do a world of good to a world of people." 
The Christian Farmer has carried this note: "Parents will find it {Accent on Pur­ity) helpful in the instruction it is their duty to give." 
The Ave Maria reviewer says, "Father Haley's experience and excellent judgment are'manifest on every page." 
The book, which has a special- plastic binding, sells in book stores for $2.25. It is published by Fides Publishers of South Bend, a non-profit organization formed sev­eral years ago by a group of Notre Dame alumni interested in the lay apostolate. Fides headquarters are at 325 Lincoln Way West, South Bend 5, Ind. 
SONGS AFTER SUNDOWN, by John F. Sullivan, Jr., '33, Bruce Humphries, Inc., Boston. $3. 
Professor Phillips brought with him from Poland to Notre Dame a number of books and paintings which were the works of friends whose businesses and professions were something else entirely from these hob­bies which they had developed. It made a deep impression on me as the mark of true cultural progress in a nation. 
John F. Sullivan, Jr., '33, with a busi­ness, a wife and six children, has come a long way in his poetry with the volume just published in Boston. They are the songs of a good man, an educated man, a family man, a man whose mind is neither confined nor exhausted by the demands of making a living, but is enjoying the richness of liv­ing itself. 
Notre Dame men will find many of their thoughts translated into very good poetic structure, attractive rhyme and musical rhythm.—^J.E.A. 
AMERICAN GOVERNMENT UNDER THE CONSTITUTION, by Paul C. Bartholomew, '29, Wm. C. Brown Co., Dubuque, la. $3.25. 
American Government Under the Consti­tution is not only a new text in American and state government but it is also different in its approach to and treatment of the sub­ject. The best way to understand our gov­ernment is to understand the Constitution. Professor Bartholomew introduces the stu­dent to the Constitution — the source of our political ideas and institutions — and 
TAe Uttiverslfy Today 
THE SPRING SEMESTER is under way with 4,756 students enrolled at Notre Dame. Of this number, 331 are in the Graduate School. The semester will end with com­mencement exercises June 5. 
Two WEU-KNOWN LECTDBEBS spoke here lecently: The Bev. Patrick Peyton. C.S.C„ leader of the cnuode lor fanuly prayer, and Evelyn Waugh, Britiah noTe­list. Jacques Maritain is coming on March 23. 
TWO EUROPEAN AUTHORITIES in liturgy have accepted invitations to lecture here during the summer session. They are: Prof. Donald Attwater, of Blackfriars School, Llanarth, Raglan, England, and Rev. Jo­seph A. Jungmann, S.J., of Innsbruck Uni­versity, Austria. Liturgy programs were started here by the Department of Religion in the undergraduate division in 1947 and were extended to the Graduate School in 1948. .. . 
student to the living Constitution. 
This splendid work of Dr. Bartholonew's is fully documented. Appropriate footnotes lead the student to the sotirce of statements. Here the author leans heavily on primary • sources — Supreme Court decisions (alpha­betically listed in the appendix). House and Senate Rules and Manuals and other o£5­cial documents. 
Following each chapter there are addi­tional parallel readings, for the benefit of the student The standard texts and the relevant chapters are cited. In the appendix there is a complete list of "Selected Ref­erences." _ • 
A welcome appendage is the "Political Vocabulary" of the most common esqjres­sions in American and state government. The author employs numerous graphs which elucidate and concretize the material under discussion. The index is comprehensive and the format attractive. 
—JOSEPH FRANCIS MENEZ 
PATCH AND FAN, by Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., The Ave Maria Press. $2. 
Well, it's another of those delightful journeys of Father Carroll's that won't rightly line up as badnvard or forward. Next year the author observes his golden jubilee in the Congregation of Holy Cross. The new story is of his boyhood in Ire­land. 
There is a smoothness and a' retiring quality about' the - style as though Father Carroll would not wish it to intrude on. his thinking or yours. -In the markets of mod­em fiction Patch and; Fan will be strangers.' No murders, no broken homes, no atheists, no communists, no violence — a strange book, indeed. And yet virtue and religion and charity and fiddity occupy the homes and the schoolrooms of Father Carroll's land as though they were the natives and the builders. ' 
It is a treat to find another intellectual reverse in Father Carroll's book. Ybu are never conscious of a message. He is not an' insistent apologist for the Church, for rural life, for great books. Yet after the book is done, the tides of thought .grow as you realize the pattern that is Ireland, but might have been Nazareth. The struggle of a people, of a religion, against oppres­sion and persecution. The struggle of cul­ture against natural and unnatural enemies. The tragedy of resignation to the scattering of families by economic necessity. The eco­nomic struggle that' is not capital against labor but simply man for' existence. The love of goodness and greatness inherent in the' thinking of a people "yAtt had to de­velop a "black market" of religion and edu­cation. All these are there. For any with a drop of Irish blood, the book flows! like the Shannon. For those who have ever tasted the satisfied life of a neighboriy countryside where'the most and the least are close, the book is a release to recolfec­tion.—J.E.A. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ATHLETICS • • 
BASKETBALL 
BUUETDf 

Notre Dame won three of the final four games to finish the season with a 17-7 rec­ord. Scores: N.D. 59, Canisius 51; NJ). 71, N.Y.U. 66; N.D. 59, Northwestern 56, N.D. 59, St. Louis 68. 
Injuries for the second consecutive year have played a major role in the destiny of the Notre Dame basketball team, as the Irish are hopeful of equalling last season's record of 17 victories and 7 defeats. 
.'^nd for the second straight year it was big John Brennan, Bedford, Ind., center, who was shelved by injuries during the sea­son, leaving the Irish minus some of the height that is so necessary in modem basket­ball. Last year, Brennan sufTered a broken arm early in the season and was lost until the Irish headed east to close the campaign. This year, however, the 6' 4" center suffered a severely injured knee midway in the sea­son and was lost for the balance of the schedule. 
Brennan's injury forced Coach Ed Krause once more to rely primarily on Long John Foley, 6' 4^2™ center from Worcester, Mass., at the pivot post, but left Coach Krause without capable replacements at center. 
In fact, Leo Bamhorst, of Indianapolis, who has started in every game since return­ing to Notre Dame in 1946, and Jimmy O'Halloran, Chicago speedster, are the only two members of the Irish starting lineup that have not been forced to the sideline at least once by injury. Foley was hampered for a brief period by a broken nose, Kevin O'Shea by recurring knee injuries, and Capt. Paul Gordon by a badly bruised shoulder. 
One slight ray of hope emerged from the injury-riddled squad, however, as sopho­more Marty O'Connor, of Kewanee, 111., surged into the starting lineup several times and gave promise of a bright future during his next two years of competition. O'Connor, although small for a college eager, displayed 
•plenty of aggressiveness and a better than average shooting eye. 
Once again this year it has been Bam­horst, averaging 12 points per game, who has paced the Irish in scoring. O'Shea, al­though missing several games because of his knee, follows close behind, and O'Halloran has led the Notre Dame scoring in a number of late season games. 
The Irish opened the season by suffering a last minute 59'to-58 defeat of an Illinois team that was destined for a great season in Big Ten. competition. After the opening defeat, however, the Krausemen won five consecutive games before again tasting de­feat. This string included a 55-44 win over Nor&westem, 55-42 over Pennsylvania, 60-54 over Wisconsin, 70-62 over Navy and 
By RAYMOND I. DONOVAN. '42 
51-50 over Purdue. Indiana snapped the streak by registering a 50-47 \'ictor>- over the Irish in the annual Big Four Hoosier Classic in Indianapolis. 
During the Christmas holidays, the Notre Dame quintet journeyed to the west coast and into the deep southwest, winning 58 to 45 over Southern Methodist in Dallas, Tex., and coming out on the long end of a 70 to 66 win over St. Mary's in San Francisco. But after the long train ride home, during which they were delayed twice in the her­alded recorded snow storm. Coach Ray Meyer's DePaul Demons handed the Irish their third defeat of the season, 59 to 38. 
Marty O'Connor and Leo Bamhorst spearheaded the Notre Dame five to victory in the next two games. O'Connor, although plaj-ing less than thirty seconds, scored the winning bucket in the final ten seconds to defeat a good Butler team, 60 to 58. Bam-• horst, facing former Notre Dame All­.•\merican Vince Boryla who had averaged 20 points per game until that time, held Boryla to five points in a great defensive job as the Irish beat Denver, 49 to 46. 
After final examinations, the Irish took to the road for what turned out to be a disastrous rode trip. Minus Brennan, and with O'Shea unable to play full time, No­tre Dame was dealt a 62 to 38 defeat in Louisville by Kentucky's powerful Wildcats. And on the way home, the stop in Indiana­polis was just as disastrous as Butler's Bull­dogs gained revenge for the previous defeat by winning, 68 to 54, over the Irish. 
Michigan State and Marquette were de­feated, 63-47 and 71-64 respectively, before Coach Krause took his Notre Dame team out to meet St. Louis University, ranked right behind Kentucky as the No. 2 team in the nation. Krause instituted a zone de­fense for this game, and the Irish trailed by only a 24 to 23 margin at halftime. The Billikens began to hit on their long shots,­however, and handed Notre Dame a 61 to 44 defeat. 
In the final three games before the an­nual eastern swing, Notre Dame put to­
1949 Football Schedule 
Sept. 24—Indiana at Notre Dame 
Oct. 1—^Washington at Seattle 
Oct. 8—Purdue at Lafayette 
Oct. 15—^Tulane at Notre Dame 
Oct. 22—Open 
Oct. 29—Navy at Baltimore 
Nov. 5—^Michigan State at Lansing 
Nov. 12—^N. Carolina at New York 
Nov. 19—Iowa at Notre Dame 
Nov. 26—Southem Cal at Notre Dame 
Dec. 3—S. Methodist at Dallas gether a three-game winning streak by beat­ing Marquette for the second time, 59 to 42, gaining revenge over DePaul, 54 to 49, and winning for the second time over Mich­igan State, 43-41. 
TRACK 
The 1949 Notre Dame track and field team appears headed for one of the best seasons in recent years as a result of im­pressive showings in early meets. Coach El­« n R. (Doc) Handy's squad came home from the Michigan AAU meet with first places in four events and then proceeded to overwhelm both Purdue and Bradley in their opening dual meets. 
Leading the Irish cindermen in their early meets has been Bill Fleming, the workhorse of the squad. Fleming has been impressive as he has devoted triple efforts to the high and low hurdles and the high jump. Against Bradley, Fleming tied the Notre Dame field-house records of 7.3 and 6.9 seconds respec­tively in the high and low hurdles. His best jump in the high jump was a 6' 2" effort against Purdue. 
Also giving a good account of himself for the Irish has been John Helwig, Los An­geles shot putter. Helwig, who has pushed the shot better than 50 feet consistently, against Bradley heaved the iron ball 53' 3%" to break the fieldhouse record. 
In the sprint events. Bob Smith has been the chief Irish mainstay, while Paul Schwet­schenau and Ray Sobota have paved the way in the 440-yard run. In the 880, it has been Pat Kenny who thus far has had an undefeated season, while in the mile run Capt Bill Leonard and Jim Kittell have been running one-two. Diminutive Jim Mur­phy once again this year has been the No. 1 two-miler. 
FENCING 
Coach Herb Melton's Notre Dame fencing team is shooting for the first post-war Notre Dame undefeated fencing season. 
The Irish swordsmen have swept through sue straight opponents without defeat, and one of these victories brought sweet revenge for Coach Melton and his crew. The Irish fencers, in this year's victory parade, de­feated the University of Chicago, who hand­ed them their only defeat of the season last year. 
Three of this year's victims—Illinois Tech, Chicago and Illinois—entered the Notre Dame match with undefeated records, only to have their own winning streak snapped. In addition, Notre Dame has defeated Mich­igan State, Case and Northwestern, to pre­serve their undefeated record. Only matches against Detroit, Wisconsin and Cincinnati remain between Melton's fencers and an undefeated season. 

ycu 4re Inv/fed fo Pgrficipofe 
This Will Be a Year of Planning 
By FBANCIS WALLACE. '23 President of the Alumni Associottion 
I am unaccustomed to being president of anything because, by the time for elections, I have usujJly lined up with the loyal oppo­sition. But one of the Notre Dame secrets is a unity quite remarkable among any group of Irish, by environment or birth. This one sneaked up on me; or 1 sneaked up on it. 
My original intention was to take all the bows and let Jim Armstrong and Bill Dooley do all the work; but something went wrong and I find myself involved. The only way out of a situation like that is to delegate authority, which I am now doing enthusi­astically. 
We have a very good board, particularly the freshman backfield, which has already been voted by the older members "most pro­vocative and talkative." And that's good be­cause there's much to do. This piece will tell you what we have in mind and how we are operating. 
Detailed Orgcmization Stressed 

In general, this will be a year for planning and detailed organization, for laying out the blue-print for future activities on a much broader scale than heretofore. You are all invited to participate; so if you have any pet ideas, this is the time to apply the seat of the pants to the seat of the chair —and a stamp to the envelope. 
Nothing much could be done during the war years. In 1947 an entire new Board took over. The first two years, now known as the Hogan Whirlwind, were given over almost entirely to the development of the Founda­tion. That's now rolling on its own with of course the continuing cooperation of clubs and individual alumni; and from this time on we're practically starting from scratch on normal alumni organization affairs. 
We will have three full Board meetings— in January, June and October. There will be more frequent meetings of the Executive Committee. And we've organized a Chain-Lctter-Gang procedure which will keep all members in communication throughout the year exchanging ideas, clearing underbrush and settling whatever can be decided by that method—so that our formal meetings can be productive of more decision and less conversation. 
Our first task is to reorganize routine functions. The two main categories in the past have been Clubs and Fund-Raising, with the vice-presidents supervising. Fund-Raising is now temporarily assigned to Art Cronin; but since the Foundation is now taking care of that, we shall probably find some more bruising activity for the old tackle, who is still big enough and young enough to take—and dish out—plenty of punishment. 
Lou Buckley would ordinarily have taken the Clubs; but he is a bug on class organi­zation and is now, aided by Joe Boland, de­veloping that phase into a major activity. Bob Hellrung, the retiring v. p. is a bug on Clubs; so we've asked him to stay on this year and complete the excellent program he had started. 
Another department which has been roll­ing around like a loose marble in a box is the Placement Program, in which the stu­dents are most interested, for obvious and growing reasons. This will also probably be­come a major function; and since it re­quires efficient cooperation among faculty, undergraduates and Clubs, we are looking for the most qualified alumnus who will be wiling to seriously interest himself—some­body with the time, talent, energy and en­thusiasm of a Harry Hogan. And he need not necessarily be a member of the Board. ."^ny nominations—including yourself? 
One of the first things the "freshmen" de­tected was a financial situation that evolved from the Endowment Program. So we mouse-trapped them by appointing a Finan­cial Committee—and made them it. The un­dergraduates also got into the act when the Scholastic editors demanded to know just what the alumni were up to, if anything. We can use that warm, young blood, too; and I'm doing a piece for the Scholastic, which will answer their detailed questions, some of them dowmright embarrassing; and which will be designed to begin their indoc­trination into alumni work before they leave the campus. 
PoteniiallT ProduciiTe Field 
Other such items will be coming up. What we really have is a great and potentially pro­ductive field in which Armstrong and Dooley —both exceptional men—have been able to sink only a few wells. Harry Hogan set a new pace for the Board which present and future members must follow; and the tasks will call for help from alumni in the field. 
For instance: There is a broad problem which has had the attention of us all and towards which we can all contribute. It is wrapped up in the Football Factory idea— the fact that too many people think of No­tre Dame in terms of football rather than academic achievement. I'm beginning to think we've been too sensitive about this matter and have magnified its importance; but the impression does exist and it's time 
Fhmlc Wcdloe* 
we began to do something intelligent and aggressive about it. 
What it requires is another major move­ment—on the scale and following the physi­cal pattern of the Foundation—designed to make plain to outsiders what we know to be true: That our football excellence merely reflects ihc excellence of the University in all of its departments; that we cannot help having good football squads, too. This is the theme of a book called The Notre Dame Story which 1 have written and which will be published this fall; but the book will only break the ground. What we need is a broad and long-range program with which the University can help; but which will be primarily an alunuu job. These are the suggested moves which can be made immediately by individuals and clubs: 
SnggasiieBa lor AU 
1.
 Take active and aggressive part in lo­cal community, civic, cultural, ideological, political and intellectual activities; and en­courage undergraduates to prepare for such action. 

2.
 Make use of the great pool of talent on the faculty by bringing specialists in dif­ferent fields to our own communities as speakers. 

3.
 Make the Clubs focal points of Cath­olic action by in\nting cooperation from other Catholic leaders—^particularly in cities and sections where Notre Dame has the only organized group. 


This is the way this program worked out in a recent test case in my own community: the nucleus of our Ohio Valley Club is Wheeling, W. Va., the center of a metro­politan population of about 250,000 people. The local Brotherhood Committee, a top-drawer group spearheaded by newspaper and radio executives, was searching for a name speaker. 
We got them Pat Manibn. The advance publicity \»as very generous; the magic of the Notre Dame name immediately became operative; it soon became known as "The 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Notre Dame" dinner rather than the Broth­erhood. 
Pat was met by a delegation; was guest of honor at a Bar Association luncheon ar­ranged by a local Catholic leader who was not a Notre Dame man; at the dinner he was the only speaker on a half-hour radio program on all three local stations, one of which was a powerful 50,000-watt. 
Pat bowled them over with two great per­formances. He was front-page news for two days. The net result can only be described as sensational. And all this in a section where Notre Dame had been chiefly thought of as a football school! 
The University should have a battery of Manions, McCarthys and Reyniers ready to take advantage of opportunities provided by local clubs. All this should be done on a national scale; and it can be done easily enough, with intelligent thought and steady effort. This, as I see it, should be the next broad objective of the Association—an alum­ni endowment of culture and prestige. 
The Hafion Recognizes... 
Notre Dame's Young Men 
Notre Dame's young men brought honor to themselves and to the Universit)- in January. 
A Notre Dame alumnus was chosen by the United States Junior Chamber of Com­merce as one of the nation's ten outstand­ing young (under 36) men of 1948. He is Dr. Charles A. Hufnagel, '37, instructor in the Har\'ard Medical School. 
A Notre Dame faculty member was chosen by the Indiana Junior Chamber of Commerce as the state's outstanding young man of 1948. He is Dr. Charles C. Price, head of the Chemistry Department. 
And several Notre Dame alumni were chosen by their local Junior Chambers of Commerce as outstanding in their own com­munities for 1948. One of them was Mario Pieroni, '40, who though blind, is an at­torney and judge of the citj- court in Mun­cie, Ind. 
Dr. Hufnagel (who appeared in the Oc­tober, 1947, ALUMNUS, as a "Spotlight Alumnus") was recognized for his "devel­opment of a technique to repair the aorta-blood vessel with a plastic tube made of lucite and establishment of artery banks similar to blood banks." He was nominated for the honor by the Junior Chamber of Commerce in his home town of Richmond, Ind. 
The important part which Notre Dame has played in his life was told by Dr. Huf­nagel in a feature article, written by Eleanor Roberts, which appeared in the Boston Sun­day Post of Jan. 23. The article said in part: 
"Very much'the perfectionist. Dr. Huf­nagel is a stickler for detail. He is con­vinced that his disciplined thinking which is responsible for leaving no stone unturned, no avenue unexplored, is due to the influ­ence of the priests who taught him at Notre Dame. 
" 'Father Francis Wenninger, the - well-known biologist who was dean of the col­lege of science when I was a student at Notre Dame, was an extremely-disciplined thinker,' Dr. Hufnagel pointed out. 
" 'It was he who impressed on me the value of learning how to concentrate, of thinking creatively. His great theme was 
Mario Pieroni with *'Dno" 
that we were not only to learn the facts, but to learn how to think. 
" 'The discipline was strict at Notre Dame and that was good. Too few of us realize the value of a certain amount of discipline. I have been grateful for it, particularly in my work here at the laboratory when I found everything opening up before me.'" 
Dr. Hufnagel lives with his wife and daughter, Kathy, in Brookline, Mass., near Boston. 
Dr. Price received the honor for his out­standing scientific research conducted in the chemistry laboratories at Notre Dame. In December, 1948, it was announced that he and his associates had isolated for the first time two chemical compounds capable of neutralizing dangerous Rh antibodies in the blood which may cause still-births and mis­carriages in pregnancy and jaundice and other blood diseases in newborn infants. If Dr. Price and his group can now determine the structure of the compounds they will be able to synthesize them and use them to fight Rh antibodies. 
Dr. Price has also led the Notre Dame Chemistry Department in the development of four anti-malarial drugs which have been thoroughly tested on animals and have been selected for clinical trial at government des­ignated civilian and military hospitals. Feel­ing a responsibility to humanity beyond the confines of his profession. Dr. Price in April, 1948, contributed an article, "The Scien­tist's Stake in World Govenmient" to the Chemical and Engineering News. He out­lined there a course of action calling for every possible effort toward a peaceful world federation created by those who have applied science to modem warfare. 
Dr. Price was graduated from Swarth­more in 1934 and came to Notre Dame in 1945, following ten years at the University of Illinois. In 1946, he received the Amer­ican Chemical Society award in pure chem­istry. 
The father of five children. Dr. Price is an expert squash player and a sailing en­thusiast. He took time out from his labora­tory to win a Labor Day regatta at nearby Eagle Lake, Mich., in 1948 and placed sixth in a Great Lakes regatta. 
Judge Pieroni was unanimously chosen for his honor by the five-man committee which considered several candidates. The committee in selecting the winner pointed to his skillful handling of city court prob­lems since he took the bench on Jan. 1, 1948, and to his wide participation in com­munity affairs, particularly to his deep per­sonal interest in the program of the Harry Mock School for Crippled Children, where he teaches Braille to those whose sight is bad or failing. 
Practicing law with his brother Charles, '36, and John C. Hynes, '39, Judge Pieroni travels to distant points by train and air­plane accompanied usually only by his See­ing Eye dog, "Uno." He speaks frequently in churches, schools and before civic groups. His greatest effort is to convince people that a sightless person is a normal person de­prived only of his vision who wishes to be treated as an average person. 
Judge Pieroni is married and has two children, Anne and John, both with normal vision. He met his wife, Jane, also sight­less, while the two were children attending the State School for the Blind. They were married within a year after Judge Pieroni finished Law School at Notre Dame. 

ALUMNI CLUBS » » 
Akron 
The annital club dance at Christmas time, tra* ditionally one of Akron's top social events of the holiday season> was held on Dec. 28 in the May­flower Hotel. IVoceeds went to the club scholar­ship fund. BILL AHERX was the general chair­man. 
FRANK LEAHY was in Akron in January for the football banquet of St. Vincent High School, ad­dressing 500 people, including many local alumni, at the Mayflower Hotel. 
Baltimore 
On Jan. 5 the club entertained members and their guests at a brewery party. 
On Feb. 14, a Valentine party was held at McCormick and Co. building. This was the third party for which McCormick and Co. offered to the club the use of fine facilities, and we are grateful. 
JOHN CONLEY, a member of the dob and recently promoted to be assistant to Mr. McCor­mick, president of McCormick and Co., has been instrumental in obtaining for the Notre Dame Club of Baltimore a very good friend. 
GIL PRENDERGAST, chairman of the entertain­
BeT. Louis J. Thornton. CS.C regiatrar ol tha Uaireiailf. gov* tha &ird anamd <
ment Committee, was in charge of all arrangements. 
—JAMES H. MURRAY to the parents and students oi Gilraoiur Academr. Gates IGUa. 0_ on Dae; llL ilt tt* reception preceding Father Thornton's oddieaa ware. lail to nght Flnmeia M. INifuau president oi the Notre Dame Club oi QaTalaad. VniHam JL thaenu pratidaat. ei &• 
Boston Gilmour Academy Men's Qub. Fothar Tbotaioa and Brathar Thaophona The campus club should he congratulated on the Schmitt CS.C headmaster oiGilmenr. success of its Christmas formal. A few of the alumni joined students from various sections of Xew England in dancing at the Copley Plaza Hotel. HICKEY, '+*, FRED SHADLEY, '48, SAM last year, was appointed general cfaainoaa. JOE The second annual sports night of the Boston 
ANDERSON, '49, W. M. ANDERSON, ex-45, GARTLAND, '27, GEORGE GROGAN. '4S aad 
HUGH BLUNT, '24, win serve oa the coSBtiee. 

Club was held Feb. 17 at the Har\'ard Club. Over HUGH O. CAHALAN, '29. 
More defimte pbas wiQ be maaoonced later. 

one hundred alumni and guests took great delight The following officers were elected: president, in seeing the '^Highlights of Notre Dame's 1948 JOHN V. MORAN, '30; vice-president, JOHN C. 
—JACK NVE DUFFEY 

Football Season." BRESNAHAN, '45; secretary, JACK NYE DUFFEY, '35; treasurer, JOHN S. VAUGHAN, '47. 
The following alumni introduced themselves as attending their first Boston Club meeting; ART Plans were discussed for Universal Notre Dame Capital District STATirrO, '48, JOHN TAYLOR, '48, CASPAR Night, on April 25. It was the general consensus 
JOSEFH W. CONLON is the new pRWieat of 

URBAN, '48, JAMES JOHNSON, '48, LEO that a dinner to which the ladies could be invited the chb, siKxee£i« JOHN F. CAUFBELL. 
LOUGHLIN, '48, PAUL KLUDING, '39, ANDY would be the most popular. AL BIRMINGHAM, ANDREW W. PINCKNEY ii the vice-pcesdeat a»l SCOFATI, '36, JACK FOGARTY, '43, JOHN '24, wba did such a good job at the last minute DR. BERNARD A. DUFFY, wcielaiy-tieaiacer. 
Central Illinois 
On Jan. 17, the dob entertained appnadantdjr 140 chb memben and guests at a stag buffet featuring BILL EARLEY and the "Foolban B3-. lights oC 48". Bin was wdeomed by Major Baity A. Eielson. The party was a giaad socccss and Mck ocdit is due the conunittee of GEORGE MANGAN, JOHN TROY. HAROU> STONE awl ChairMa DICK MURFHY. A vote of thaab is doe the Univenity aiid the Athletic Department for their splendid cooperation on the ocraww. 
At a noon mectii^ Fd>. 7, plans were'made for a permanent and continuing cfaib crgarniatina. JERRY McGLONE, JIM OOSTA, TOM VICAIIS, JOE CHURCHMAN, FRANK STELTE. CHUCK CORCORAN and JOE NELSON wcie nawd as a committee to plan a Univeisal Night gathciiag. and to serve as a conunittee for aominatiag M- slate of Board of Diiectots and dub officers to be acted upon Univeisal Night. 
Reservatians were made by Cathedral H ^ Sdool for a table of Notre Dame dub nemben to attead the aimua] high sdKwl football faaniQet Jaa. 26. ia honor of ZIGGY CZAROBSKI, the guest qicaker. 
—LANDO HOWARD 

Tha Cincinnati Qub Christmos dcmee was, as usuaL the top erent ol the local hoUdar Chicagoseason. Enioying it left to right, are lohn C. Cottinghani. the general chairmon for tha 
Annual clMtimi meetiag.of Aa dxb oa Fcb.:3, 

third atraight year: John A. Bond. Mrs. Bond. Mrs. Thomas E. Hanifin. Or. Thomas E. 
bfoo^t to the uneasy pnadeatial chair, of that Hanifin. fbs. Harry I. Gilligan. Jr., Mrs. B. N. Brockmcm. Jr.. Mrs. major orgaajntina J<^N BUCKLEY, "St, aad.to Cottingham tmd Robert C. Burke. the first vice-pRsideacy, fnm lAick he- caa ooasti­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

tutionally anticipate the succession in 1950, JACK LACEY, '38. Retiring president yvas JAMES CRONIN, '35. 
The program u-as kcj-notcd by the retiring and in­coming officers, with a note of mature consideration of club problems induced by a substantia] deficit in the treastuy. This deficit, incurred in the high cause of a full-time office and secretarj*, may evolve into a tiuijor contribution to club history in re­e\-aluating the purpose and program involved. 
Actually, e\'er)'%ine agreed that the dub had en­jo;-cd a yrzr under able leadership, but that club potentials are mucli greater than any one year's administration can crj'Stallize. 
University* stimulus was contributed by REV. ROBERT H. SWEENEY, C.S.C, and Alumni Asso­ciation sanction and hope came from JAMES £. ARMSTRONG, alumni secretary. 
Entertainment H-as furnished in song and stor>% through Walter Ifackett. topped off by the au-ard­jng of the "Extension Magazine" .-Mi-America Cath­olic au-ards by Ven* Rev. Monsignor Kenneth Stack to LEON HART, MARTY WENDELL and EMIL SITKO in person, and BILL FISCHER in absentia, and the Southern California football films with com­mentary by Father Sweeney. 
Cincinnati 
On De c 29, The Third Annual Notre Dame 

When Thomas W. Flynn, Jr., '35 (left), president of the Notre Dome Club of Hawau, 
Scholarship Ball became the outstanding social and 
financial success of the Christmas season in Cin­stopped off for a campus visit on Jan. 25, en route home from trying a cose before the cinnati. Both the Ball Room and the Cr^'stal Room Supreme Court in Washington* the reception committee comprised James E. Armstrong, of the Sinton needed accommo'^atc  William R. Dooley ond John N. Cackley, in the order 
 Hotel were

 to Father Louis^ J. Thornton, CS.C^ 
over eight hundred persons who danced and watched 
named. Tom and the other Notre Dame men in the Honolulu area, though few in num­
a featured floor show by entertainers imported from the finer night clubs in the area. ber, have done a superb job of representing Notre Dame and of wel­
coming Notre Dame vittlors. TINGHAM was the general chairman. He was assisted by ROBERT C. BURKE, administrative chairman; B. N. BROCKMAN, JR., tickets and resenations; HARRY J. GILLIG.AN, JR., publicity; 
For the third consecutive year JOHN C. COT-

December: Father Charles Gilfoylc, Passionist, 
JOHN A. BOND, entertainment; and DR. 
was the principal speaker. WALLY NIENABER Dallas THOMAS E. HANIFIN, decorations. 
gave a report on the football trips run by the dub 
Prior to the Ball an elaborate cocktail party was last fall for the benefit of the club scholarship fund.' The club's annual Christinas formal in the Pea­held for one hundred and twenty patrons and New members JACK McGEE and DR. EDWARD cock Teirace of the Baker Hotel on Dec. 29 turned patronesses in the Rookwood Room of the Hotel GLASER were introduced. out to be a social as well as a financial success. Sinton. In charge of these arrangements were JACK SHORTALL and his committee did a ANDREW P. BARTON and ROBERT W. splezKlid job. 
January: The speaker was Brother Dan Sullivan HUGHES, co-chairmen, assisted by JOHN B. 
of St. Franos of Mt. Alverno. New members intro­The night after the dance, Notre Dame's high 
duced were: JACK CLIFFORD and PAT BAN­
BRODBERGER, JR., HOWARD ROHAN, DR. 
scoring basketball team helped dedicate the nevr 

NON, both of the F.B.I. JACK HEILKER, 
GEORGE GREEN, DR. JOHN McSWEENEY, court in the Automobile, Aviation and Recreation 
Foundation dty chairman, gave his report. Father Kcllehcr, Chaplain at Good Samaritan Hospital, was  quintet. JIM SIM­EDWARD MERSMAN and WILLIAM GRAPE. 
Building by dawning S.M.U.'s 

The ball has become so successful during the past announced as club chaplain. MONS and his hardy committee descr\'e some of three years that it is not only a credit to the Uni­the credit for this victory for getting up at dawn versity- but also provides sufficient profit to be to welcomfl the team to Dallas after dancing till 
February: Plans were made for the football 
added to the club's ever growing Scholarship Fund the wee hours at the Christmas formal. 
smoker on Feb. 13, attended by 800, with Trainer 
that it will alone finance the education of a de­HUGH BURNS as the commentator on football It was almost like a Notre Dame reunion at the serving boy from the area. 
movies. A party for Notre Dame students was an­reception for JOE HAGGAR and his charming 
BILL MIDDENDORF, secretary-, keeps the Alum­nounced for Easter Saturday, April 16. JACK bride, Isabell, at the Baker Hotel on Jan. 15. The ni Office informed as to club meetings. They've BRODBERGER was appointed chairman for the following day, brother ED HAGGAR and Patty had lined up this way: Universal Notre Dame Night observance. an open house which was another semi-reunion. 
DR. LLOYD BELLAMY was recently elected a director of the Dallas County Dental Sodety. 
The dub directory is gradually being readied for the printers. N. D. alumni and ex-students in the Dallas area are urged to drop a line to the writer if they wish to be included in the directory and are not already on the mailing list. 
A number of new faces were seen at the club's last meeting early in February. The newcomers to the dub induded BILL BROWN, '49, JIM STEIN­ER, '47, and LEE SHIPP, '48. 
Denver 
A meeting of the dub was on Jan. 24. Among subjects discussed at this meeting was the con­templated resumption of the Denver N. D. Club's "Varsity Flyer" football special trains next fall, l^eliminary planning is now under way. 
The dub's Scholarship Committee is currently accepting applications for the annual N. D. scholar­ship amrd.—TOM CtJRRIGAN 
Des Moines 
Tlie dob has been gathering frequently the past 

Til* Fort Londsidole Club had a dianer io honor the Notre Dame football players iHio 
six weeks. 

were in Florido for the North-South game on Christmas Day. Left to right are Terry Bren-
Dec 27 the dub had a get-acqnaiated luncheon 

naii. Robert H. Gore, Ir„ '31, president of the club. Bill Walsh and Jack Fallon. meetiiig for the students home from school. That 
Volume 27, No. 2, March-April, 1949 

night many of us attended a semi-formal dance sponsored by the students home for the vacation. 
Feb. 4 the regular First Friday luncheon was held in the Savery Hotel. Ten members attended and President Tiernan announced plans for the year. 
Feb. 9 the club members were guests of the Dow-ling Club. JOHNNY LUJACK, the guest speaker, showed pictures of the Bear-Cardinal play-off game. 
—PHILLIP V. CARROLL 
Duluth 

Glad to report that the Duluth-Superior group, small though it may be, has started to assert it­self! Met at Bill Cotter's home on Feb. 8. Present: PHIL, - BILL, - DICK HOENE, COTTER, BE­THUNE, KEOUGH, and BUD LIEMANDT (re­cently transferred to Duluth from Minneapolis) Doctor JIM COLL, ED KUTH, JUDGE AL\RK NOLAN, and several others were unable to attend. 
f 
Made plans for the showing of N. D. football pictures to the interested public in mtd-March. Money to be used to start a bona fide job for the club treasurer. Luncheon meeting. 
Discussed our part in the Universal Notre Dame 
Night on April 25. Thought that wc would attempt to get the available alumni down from the Iron Range to join us for the big evening. Plans for the above arc still in the "idea" stage, but we arc definitely going to make an occasion of it. —JIM KEOUGH 
Ft, Lauderdale^ Fla. 

The club meets for dinner on the first Wednesday evening of each month at the Go\-ernor's Club Hotel in Ft. Lauderdale. Alumni in the area and other friends of the University are invited to the dinner-meetings and can make reservations by calling BOB GORE at 2-7951. 
On Dec. 23 the club entertained TERRY BREN­NAN, BILL VVALSH, and JACK FALLON of the football team who were in Miami for the North-South game. 
R. H. GORE, SR., benefactor of the University, has generously offered to gix-v four dollars to the Notre Dame Foundation for e\'ery dollar that the club members give. The lop limit in this offer is set at a contribution of two thousand dollars by the alumni. 
Fort Wayne 

The club held its annual Christmas party for the orphans at St. Vincent Villa, X>cc. 22. HARRY HUMBRECHT was chairman of the committee. Assisting him were: MAURICE BOLAND, ARTIE HOFFMAN, ED HOCH, TOM SUELZER, CLIFF WARD and DAVE WARNER, 
Gifts for the children were distributed by the Club's own Santa Claus, ED ^VESNER, who turned in his usual good performance. EMIL SITKO gave a short address and presented an autographed foot­ball. Movies and a ventriloquist act rounded out the evening's entertainment. 
Prior to the program at the Villa, members of the club attended a dinner at the Berghoff Gardens. Students of the campus club were guests for the meal, as well as for the program at the Villa. 
New members of the Club who were graduates of the January semester are: JOHN TRUEMPER, BOB LUTHER, and DAVID SKORY. 
TYKE HARTMAN has been transferred by the Wayne Pump Co. to its Memphis, Tenn. office. —TOM O'REILLY 
Greater Miami 

A group of more than 50 Notre Dame men and their wives were present for the First Annual Uiu%'er3al Notre Dame Communion Sunday observ­ance by the club. The Mass was ofTered by MSGR. WILLIAM BARRY, holder of an honorary degree from the University, at St. Patridc's Church, Miami Beach. 
On De c 27, we had a large turnout of Notre Dame men and friends of Notre Dame to hear FRANK LEAHY who was the principal speaker at the Orange Bowl Kick-ofT Dinner which was held in the Bayfront Auditorium. Among out of town alumni present were FRED MILLER, '29, and RED SMITH, '27, who was in town to do some scouting for the New York Giants. 
Our February meeting was a successful Ladies Night. FATHER JOSEPH ENGLISH, '37, of the Maryknoll Fathers dropped in for a few minutes to address the meeting. Flans were started for the forma­tion of a Laflies Auxiliary with the following ap­pointed as the committee; MRS. FRED PIOWATY, chairman; MRS. GEORGE BRAUTIGAM, MRS. FRED JONES, and MRS. JERRY HOLLAND. 
—I. L PROBST 
Idaho 

PAUL J. KOHOUT, 1722 Washington St., Boise, is the president of the newly organized Notre Dame Club of Idaho, according to word which reached the campus in February. FRANK H. "AnKE" NEITZEL, '23, No. 9, Mesa Drive,'RR. No. 5, Boise, is the 5ecretar>*. Watch later issues for de­tails of club operations. 
Kentucky 
Immediately following the Notre Dame-Kentucky basketball game, the club held an open house to which members and guests were invited; 170 at­tended. The basketball team u-as introduced to the gathering by the assistant coach, RED FOLEY. Ever^'one thought it was a grand success, due particularly to the efforts of OSCAR VON ALL­MAN, JR., and RAY NOLAN. 
As this is written, the bowling club league is turning into the home stretch with the aspects of a photo Hnish since three teams are tied for the lead. A dinner is planned for the league. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES MORROW last month welcomed their fourth child, Lucy. —LAURENCE J. AUBREY 
La Crosse 
Printed in the Congressional Record of Jan. 27 at the request of Senator Wiley of Wisconsin was the resolution of the La Crosse Club protesting the fail­ure of the U. S. representatives at the United Nations Conference to prevent the withfhrawal from the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights of the clause that all human beings "are created in the image and likeness of God". The urged tkat steps be tikea to have God iwiigritt in the DedaiatioB. 
Los Angeles 
JUDGE AL SCOTT, LEO WARD, menber of the Boaxt] of Ditcctofs of tiie Ahmuu Assodatioa, and FATHER JOHN O'CONNELL, C.S.C., ch^>­lain of the dub, were the speakers as the dob conducted its business meeting on Feb. 24. Movies of the 1948 World Series were shown. 
BOB HUETHER was chairman of arrangements assisted by DAVE BERNARD, JOHN GLAAB, DON BANNING. EMMETT JENNINGS, WALT KRONBERGER. CHAKLEY MURPHY. PAUL RUBLY, DUDLEY SMITH, BOB WALDECK and JACK ZILLY. 
Mohawk Valley 
The folIo%irii^ officers were elected on Fd>, 17 and will take office on Universal Notre Dame Night: president, F. DONALD FULLEM, '30; vice-president, EDWARD J. SWEENEY, '30; secretarr, EDWARD A. REAGAN, '40; treasurer, ANTHONY 

J. GIRUZZI, 'SS. ED NOONAN and TED REAGAN are cochur­men for Universal Notre Dame Night on April 25. . Prospective Notre Dame. students ivill be especially invited to the dinner in Hotel Utica. DR. FRANK MARINO, president of the club now, was dioscn as Oneida County health officer. .. . At Christmas time the undergraduates sponsored a dance in the Hotel Hamilton and the place was jammed. Nearly aB local alumni attended. DR. DAN SHAUGHNESSY, '30, now practidng in Her­kimer, N. Y., came and broiq;ht eight other couples with him. A solemn high Mass was sung in Our Lad;^ of Lourdes Churdi on Jan. 26 for the repose of the soul of DAVE HIGGINS, '42, who was hiOed ID World War IT. Dave's body was returned to Uticm on Jan. 6 and services were bdd'in Our Ladf t^ 
Lourdes Churdi then, with several members of the dub in attendance.—ED SWEENEY 
Monroe^ Mich. 
At a mectii^ on Fdi. 7, a constitution and by­law were adopted by the newly organized Notre 

Lou Fehlig oi the SL Lotiis Club preMnls the dub's Bnoto Bocka^ ftopbr to ^ Schcwtfer (left), football captcdn. and Tad dose, lootbcdl coodb beft ol Btnumuul S ^ S^ooL The school receired the award ior horiag tb« "'dislricl's oiitttcindlag to 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

The St. Louis Club had a luncheon in the Missouri Athletic Club the day of the St Louis U.-NJ). basketball game in St Louis, Feb. 12* 
•At the head table, left to right, -were Gerald V. TlfcDennott, chairman of the club committee on ar­rangements; Rev. W. H- Reeves, chaplain of the club; William Dumey, athletic director, St. Louis 
U.; Rev. Paul C. Reincrt, s.j., president, St. Louis U.; Coach Ed Krause, Notre Dame; Most Rev. John P. Cody, S.T.D., auxiliary bishop, St. Louts archdiocese; Fred S. McNeill, president, Notre 
Dame Qub of Monroe, Mich. Active members of the new group are: BERNARD J. COUSINO, JOHN H. CONLIN, EDWARD F. COUSINEAU, JR., JOHN G. DEWEY, CHARLES J. GOLDEN, CLAYTON C. GOLDEN, THO\L\S E. GRIFFIN, ROBERT H. AfAURER, LAWRENCE E. MER­MAN, JAMES F. NAVARRE, FRANCIS T. READY. VERNON J. SCHNEIDER, ROBERT JOSEPH DUFFEY and JAMES I. GODFROY. 
Ex-offiido members of the club will also be stu­dents attending the University from the IMonroe area. These at present are: EDWARD J. BARUN­LICH, WILLIAM J. BARUNLICH, OLIVER J. COLDEN, JR., JEROME LABOE, JACK LABOE, and MYRON MAUL. 
The dub*5 first big gathering will be on Universal ;Notre Dame Night, April 25, with John Conlin the -chairman in diarge. 
New Jersey 
; BILL WALDRON, '44, club secretary reported in 'mid-February that ''planning" was the order of the fjay in the New Jersey Club. A family affair, chair­maned by JACK ADAIhfS, '26, w^is planned for late February and a Uni\*ersal Notre Dame Night ob­
:'ser\-ance, built around FATHER ROBERT SWEE­NEY. C.S.C, as the chief speaker, was being built -up for April 25. 
.New York City 
The annual Retreat was hdd at Mt. Manrcsa, 'Staten Island, the week-end of Fdi. 4. Because of 'limited fadlities. accommodations could only be ar­
ranged for only thirty men, although fifty-five had 
- signified thdr desire to attend. During the Retreat Mass was cddirated for the repose of the soul of JOHN J. ROCHE. '34. who died on Jan. 15, 
-Chairman HERBERT GIORGIO states that be ex­' pects to be able to make arrangements to accommo­
•date a mudi larger group for the Retreat next year. 
Anangements have been made to hold a series of dub meetings at the University Club which is located at 1 West 54th St.. Newt York City. General meetings of the dub have been scheduled for Feb. 
"23 and March 21. The annual President's Night : meeting will also be hdd at the Uni\-crsity Club Dame Club; Col. John J. Griffin, master of cere­monies; Coach Ed Hickey, St. Louis U.; Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, cs.c , Notre Dame; Oliver L-Parks; Dr. Bert D. Coughlin, St. Louis chairman, Notre Dame Foundation; Vincent J. Fehlig, treas* urer, Notre Dame Club. John N. Cackley, of the Foundation Office, y.'zs au-ay from the table when the picture was taken. 
on May II. at which time FATHER JOHN CAVA­
NAUGH, president of the Uni\-crsity, will attend. 
Plans are under way for Universal Notre Dame 
Night, which will be celebrated again this year at 
Ruppert's on April 25. 
—WALTER A. DONNELLY 
Philadelphia 
The following dub officers w*ere dected to serve during the year 1949: president, BUD DUDLEY; vice-president. JOE CATTIE; secretary, BILL BURNS; treasurer. BILL BODO; assistant secretary, CHARLEY DOUGHERTY and assistant treasurer. WALT RIDLEY. 
We are planning another big Universal Notre Dame Night in Philaddphia. The date will be Tuesday, April 26, and the place will be the main ballroom of the Bellevue-Stratford Hotd. FATHER SWEENEY and JACK LAVELLE ha\-e accepted our invitations and we are awaiting replies from other prominent personages. 
In case any members of the alumni or friends of Notre Dame are in Philaddphia on April 26 they will be most welcome to attend. They can contact Bud Dudley or any member of the dub. 
We hold our regular dub meetings on the second Tuesday e\'emng of each month at the Philopatrian Club, 1923 Walnut St: The invitation above applies to all our meetings.—BILL BURNS 
Pittsburgh 

The dub hdd its Annual Retreat for Notre Dame Alumni and friends at St. Paul of the Cross Retreat House during the weekend of Jan. 7. A record crowd of 47 showed up. 
Rev. Cajetan R. Sulli\-an, C.P., was director of the Retreat and his brother. Rev. Thomas A. Sullivan, C.P., was preacher. 
The committee responsible for the success of this Retreat was JOHN McMAHON, JACK MONTE­VERDE, CARL LINK and GEORGE KINGSLEY. 
Luncheons of the dub are now held every Thins* day at 12:15 on the second floor of Dutch Henry's Restaurant, Diamond St.. between Smithfidd and WoodSts. 
The name of our dub has been offidally changed 
from the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsyl­\-ania to the Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh. —BOB CHAMBERLAIN 
Portland 
The dub cdebrated Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday at the University of Portland. FATHER FRANCIS GOODALL, C.S.C., cdebrated Mass for the dub in the Christie Hall chapd on the campus. After Mass the dub had breakfast at the "IMot House" on the campus at which time Father Goodall gave a very inspiring talk. 
Those present were: THOMAS J. MAGEE, J. 
J. MCCARTHY, H. J. HARSTICK. FRED CUN­NINGHAM, BARNEY MACNAB, DR. R. M. FRAG, CHARLES J. SLATT. D. L. CALLI­CRATE, JAMES A. CULLIGAN, GEN E SCHMTTT , WILLIAM C. SCHMITT, ROBERT MOLIN, DORWIN PALMER. ED SANDSTROM. PETE SANDROCK. REV. JOHN HOOYBOER. C.S.C., REV. CORNELIUS HOOYBOER. C.S.C. and REV. FRANCIS GOODALL, CS.C. 
JAMES REVELLE moved last month from Ore­gon Worsted Woolen Mills. Portland, Oregon, to: Oregon Wonted Woolen MUls, 3801 23rd Ave., Astoria. Long Island, 5, N. Y. 
—PETE SANDROCK 
St. Louis 
The glory that is Notre Dame's was exemplified in the publidty gi\xn our annual Rockne Award to the outstanding football team in this area. LOU FEHLIG, '37. presented the trophy at a luncheon given by the Quarterback's Club. 
One of the highlights of our dub's social program this year is the Christmas party. It was very well attended and ever)-one had a good time. 
Another interesting affair was our luncheon to %velcome the Notre Dame basketiiall team who played the high ranking St. Louis Billikens. Feb. 12. JERRY McDERMOTT, '26, arranged an outstand­ii^ speaking program which induded Notre Dame's FATHER SWEENEY and MOOSE KRAUSE. to­gether with St. Louis U's president. Father Rcinert, and Coadi Ed Hickey.—WALTER GEORGE 
San Diego 
As the result of an idea originating in the Notre Dame club, a sports luncheon, with 1,100 in attend­anoe %vas held in San Diego on De c 30 to honor the two football teams, Nevada (coached by JOE SHEEKETSKI) and Vilbnova, which plaj-ed in the Harbor Bowl on Jan. 1. The Chamber of Com­merce, Rotary, Kiwanis, Lions and Exchange clubs. 
Al StewcDt left president oi <he Nobe Dome CItib of Son Diego, and Emmett Mc-Cobe. right member oi the dub'a board el direeton, greeted Joe Sheekeiald when Joe woB in San Diego with hia NeToda team for the Harbor Bowl game. 

Volume 27, No. 2, March-April, 1949 
along with the Notre Dame club, were sponsors of the luncheon. 
The club has given $200 to the Foundation. The contribution resulted from activities in connection with the Southern Cal.-N. D. game. .. . A dinner-dance was planned for Feb. 10 at Caspers Ranch Club, EI CajoD, Calif. 
Scranton 
The following new officers were elected at a meet­ing on Feb. 9: president, MICHAEL B. COMER­FORD; vice-president, GERARD A. PURCELL; secretary, ANTHONY WEBBER; treasurer, JOHN 
A. KRAMER. 
TOM BROCK, athletic director of Kings College, Wtlkes-Barre, Fa., u-as the chief speaker for the evening, outlining progress, scholastic, athletic and ph>'sical, at the newly established CS.C. frollege. ED ROWAN, president of the Notre Dame Club of Wilkes-Barrc, another visitor, advocated more joint gatherings of his club and the Scranton Club. It H'as subsequently voted to join with the Wilkcs-Barre Club, in Wilkes-Barre for the Universal Notre Dame Night observance on April 25. 
The Scranton Club voted to contribute $30 from its treasury to the fund for the new Science Build­ing at Notre Dame. 
Tri City 
The dub entertained the students from Notre Dame from the Tri-City area who were home during the holiday season. There were about 35 alumni and students at the luncheon, which w*as held in the Pompcian Room of the Blackhawk Hotel. 
The purpose of the luncheon u'as to get the stu­dents themselves better acquainted and also to give the alumni a better opportunity to know the stu­dents and to help them acclimate themselves to our community when they are graduated from Notre Dame. It is also an opportunity to let the students know what we are attempting to do here in the Tri-City area for Notre Dame. 
While the luncheon was informal, there were several short talks given by HENRY WUR2ER, RALPH CORYN, MOON MULLINS and BILLY HASSETT.—J. C. ARNOLD 
Washington^ D. C. 
The annual Christmas Dance W3S held Dec. 27 in the Carlton Hotel. It vnis attended by a number of students home for the holida>'s, as well as by local alumni. The club is indebted to chairman BOB SCHELLENBERG and the committee of WALTER SHORT, BILL KLIAL\, DAVE SLAT­TERY and BOB MULLEN for their efforts in con­ducting the affair. 
Local Foundation activities for 1948 were brought to a close by sending a check in the amount of $750 as the Washington Club's Foundation donation for the year. 
A luncheon each Tuesday is gaining momentum and shows an increase in attendance every week. The meeting place is Bonat's, 1022 Vermont Ave. 
N. W., from 12 to 1 p.m. Much credit is due ED FENLON for his able handling of the details and for spark-plugging the attendance. 
Plans are now being made for the annual Rockne Memorial Communion Breakfast. This is a growing Notre Dame family affair, participated in by wives, sweethearts and friends, as well as members. The Communion Breakfast is scheduled for March 27. Details are being handled by Chairman ADAM "Jake'' WOLFE and his committee of GAYLORD HAAS, BOB EGAN, JOHN MANLEY and BOB SHEA. A recently organized St. Kfary's Club of Washington has been invited to participate in the breakfast with their husbands and sweethearts. 
Plam are being formulated to make Universal Notre Dame Night one of the outstanding affairs of the club's history. This is the 25th anniversary of the Washington Club. Chainnan £ D FENLON has the support of a large and active committee con­sUting of GEORGE HAITHCOCK, DR. JAMES CORCORAN, MYLES QUAIL, CHARLES FAR­RIS, BILL CORR, SEVERIN BECK, JOE HEN­NESSY, LARRY MOORE, PAUL TULLY. 
The Radne-Eenosha (Wis.) campus dub joiiMd CorcM with Uw loccd dnmii oa D«& St for a Commuzuon breakfast. Chief guest among 80 was Rev. John H. Muiphy, GLSbC» vice-president of the UmTersitr, a Bacine producL left to right in tho picturo, front raw, are the campus dub officers with Father Muxphy: Edwin Raymond, troasuiw; Btchavd Murphy, president- Bichord FrankeL vice-president and Thomas Knpfor. wamimj. fa tho rear row are the alumni: James Hamilton, Goofgo Wheary; Robert Hamilton and Grorer BffiUer. 
GEORGE KELLY, DAVE SLATTERY and JACK BARBER. 
ROBERT W. CAVANAUGH, '36, of the Inter­national Bank for Reconstruction and Development, has been appointed chairman for the Notre Dame Foundation for the Washington, D. C. area. An active local club member. Bob is a past dub presi­dent and former chairman of the Board of Go^'er­nors. 
WILLIAM B. JONES, '28, was recently elected a member of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association. Long an active member of the local clubj Bill is a former president and former member of the Board of Governors. 
HAL RODDY, club treasurer, left us for Paris on the "Queen Mary" Jan. 25. All of us wish Hal the best of everything with his E.C.A. activities in France. RAY DEELY has been appointed to com­plete the remainder of Hal's term as treasurer. 
Newcomers to Washington are requested to contact the club by calling the club phone. Republic 0613, or by attending the weekly luncheons. 
—THOMAS J. FLYNN 
Western Washington 
The great Pacific Northwest is attracting more and more Notre Dame men. Latest arrivals who have contacted the club are JOHN BOURKE, '38, recently of Chicago and now with the We>'erhauser Timber Co. located in Tacoma; BOB DALY, formerly of Pittsburgh, now located at 3355 East 182nd, Seattle. 
MORRIS STARRETT of Port Townsend has sent in the names of HAROLD FOLEY, Powell River Company, Ltd., and BOB BROWN, manager of the Vancouver Capilanos Baseball Club, both of Vancouver, B. C. These two, with REDMOND DUGGAN, '38, in the U. S. Consular Service, give us three members in this neighboring Canadian dty. 
Another Notre Dame man, DR. LARRY FARN­HAM, ex-31, of Elma, Wash., was listed by JOHN ENGLISH but so far hasn't shown up at a get-together. 
VINCENT HOGAN, who received his doctor's degree at Notre Dame in 1948 and is now an associate professor at the University of Washington, was recendy married ? in South Bend. He will be at home at 6026—33rd Ave. N.E. 
The scribe announces he has resigned from Scan­dinavian Airlines System to take on a selling job as northwest representative of Air Associates, Inc., manufacturers of special aircraft equipment and distributors of a wide line of aircraft hardware items. His headquarters will be in Seatde. 
—JERRY KANE 
Midyear Class 
(Continued from Page 20) 
"It is the folly of our modeni phHosophjr of living that a man can live like an animal and talk like a man,"' Bishop Mussio de­clared. "In truth, he but talks and plans and acts like the four-footed'beast he apes. Peace, security, and worid order are not the fruits of jungle ethics; they will come only when men start acting like men, thinKng like men and as men exercising their highest faculties in giving glory to God. . . . 
"It is only faith that ca naccurately in­terpret the march of events, that can com­pute the worth of the ideal, the value of the motive, the sincerity of the effort. It is only faith that can call the bluff of the tyrant, stand pat on firm principle no matter how high the stakes, can see profit in ma­terial loss. . . . Peace, security, happiness, love and life have no meaning unless they are vivified by the note of the everlasting-which is a treasure of the spirit alone. .. . 
"We are looking for great leaders, men of.constancy, of unswerving principle, men of tenacious loyalties and of deep spiritual insight. We know that only men of such calibre will be able to save this sick worid of ours. We must understand that our need is for men of great faith." 
The midyear graduates had their Senior Ball in the Dining Hall on Friday, Jan. 28. On Saturday, Jan. 29, they assisted at Mass and had their "last visit" in Sacred Heart Church at 9 o'clock and at 10 o'clock break­fasted together in the Dining HalL 
For the graduates and their guests the Moreau Choir presented a sacred concert in Washington Hall on Saturday evening. This' was followed by a reception in the Main Building. 
The Nofre Dame Alumnus 

Engogemenfs 
Miss Rosalie Lenahan and PATRICK A. BRAD­LEY, '43. 
Miss EUzabeth R. Donohcr and A. JOSEPH BRAUN, '42. 
Miss Marguerite Elizabeth McHugh and ED­WARD D. CALLAHAN, JR., '43. 
Miss Mary Catherine Keelcy and JOHN R. CLARY, '45. 
Miss Dona Joan Wilson and ROBERT E. COOK, ex-49. 
Miss Helen Elizabeth Maloney and JOHN R. CROWLEY, '48. 
Miss Barbara Jo Cashion and CHARLES A. CROWN, '45. 
Miss Gloria V. Ruglio and JOSEPH A. DE LIA, 

Miss Barbara Anne Donahue and JOSEPH F. DILLO.N, '48. Miss Rebecca Jane Bowman and ED\V.-\RD V. DRLNKARD, '44. Miss Barbara Ann Tait and ROBERT L. GUTH­NECK, «-47. Miss Patricia Lou Flynn and EDWARD F. HOB.AN, '48. Miss Juanita Jean Marsh and M. BRUCE HAR­LAN, '47. Miss Frances Marie Eager and MONT.A L. HOLZWORTH, '47. Miss Kathleen Ann Peters and LOUIS E. JANS­SEN, '48. Miss Patricia Ann Keenan and KENNETH A. KELLY, JR., ex-45. Miss Betty Jane Kirchheimer and ALVARO V. LESMEZ, '45. Miss Patricia Laurine Campbell and P.AUL J. H BASSI, '48. Miss Teresa Ganccr and LEO L. LINCK, '43. Miss Suzanne Bockelmann and RUDOLPH M. XOPEZ, '46. Miss Mary Frances Quinn and ROBERT E. McFARLAND, '42. Miss Joan Crowe and JOHN J. McSHANE, '48. Miss Virginia Zisa and JOSEPH A. MALENO, JR., '47. Miss Mary Kathleen Kelly and GEORGE E. TiIILES, '41. 
Miss Theresa Pirchio, daughter of Prof. Pasquale TH. Pirchio, '25, and CALLIX E. MILLER, JR., ""49, son of Callix E. MiUer, '21. 
Miss Patricia Mary Halloian and ROY E. MUR­"RAY, JR., '42. Miss Marguerite Hill and RICHARD L. MYERS, 
tx-48. 
Xfiss Jane Lindorf and FRANK SCHULTZ, '49. 
Miss Noieen P. Rooney and JAMES C. SHERI­T»AN, JR., '47. 
Miss Ruth Simon and MILES M. SILVERMAN, .ex-31. 
Miss Collette Clear}- and FRANK E. SULLIVAN, '49. 
Miss Mary Jane McGrath and HENRY J. SULLI­VAN, JR., '46. 
Miss Bette Lou Byeis and ERNEST TIMPANI, '42. 
Miss Laura Hope Daly and J.\MES A. WALD­RON, '37. 
Miss Dorothv Gopsill and THEODORE S. WEBER, JR., '45. 
Miss Helen Jeanne Ledvina and GUSTAVE A. ZUEHLKE, '44. 
Marriages 

Miss Maricne Lillian Estcs and ARNOLD D. ALTM.AN, '41, South Bend, Jan. 23. 
Miss Mary Jane Cieslewicz and BERNARD G. BEIER, '48, South Bend, Feb. 5. 
Miss Louise Nyznar and STANLEY BIENKOW­SKI, '48, Stamford, Conn., Dec. 11. 
Miss Sonia Merrill Pullman and ROBERT J. BLUM, ex-42, Beverly Hills, Calif., Mar. 13. 
^rlss Betty Frey and THEODORE J. BUDYN­KIEWICZ, '49, South Bend, Feb. 26. 
Miss Man- Elizabeth Torok and E.ARL V. CARL­SON, JR., '49, South Bend, Feb. 26. 
Miss Joan Chapman and THOMAS J. COONEY, '43, Boise, Idaho, Sept. 8. 
Miss Marguerite Cooke and JAMES J. COLE­MAN, '46, New Bedford, Mass., June 19. 
Miss Elizabeth Simpson and CHARLES J. COL­GAN, '39, Temple, Texas, Feb. 19. 
Miss Man- Lou Ley and JAMES DELANEY, '43, Grand Rapids, Mich., Feb. 26. 
Miss Juanita P. Lees and JOSEPH A. DOYLE, '49, South Bend, Feb. 5. 
Miss Joan Carney and THOMAS P. FOY, JR., '38, Deming, N. Mex., Nov. 17. 
Miss Kathaleen Sheil and JOHN G. HEMMING, JR., '34, Denver, Colo., Jan. 29. 
Miss Maisarct Kemsici and JAMES E. HOUGH­TON, '49, South Bend, Feb. 12. 
^^ss Sally Lou Street and OWEN R. HULL, ex-48, Kansas City, Mo., De c 29. 
Mrs. Jane Bev-an Leonard and JOHN W. LACEY, '38, Chicago, Nov. 11. 
Miss Dorothy Rose Koches and JOHN F. LAUGHLIN, '48, South Bend, Feb. 12. 
Miss Mary Lou Quinlan and LAWRENCE L. LOUGHLIN, '48, Chicago, Dec. 29. 
Miss Nancy Beth Nj-ikos and HENRY A. MEERS, ex-50. South Bend, Feb. 26. 
Miss Mercedes Ann Cronin and JOHN A. iHLLER, '48, Pelham, N. Y., Dec 28. 
Miss Catherine Bowe and WILLIAM J. NOLTE, JR., '47, St. Louts, Mo., Jan. 8. 
Miss Marg'e Louise Wenning and PAUL W. O'CONNELL, '43, Euclid, O., Feb. 9. 
Miss Monica Torzeu-ski and JUDGE J. ELMER PEAK, '12, South Bend, De c 31. 
Miss Patrida Marie Scanlon and ROBERT L. PRICE, ex-50. South Bend, Feb. 19. 
Miss Mary Loretta Todd and EDWARD QUIG­LEY, ex-41, Kankakee, 111., Jan. 14. 
Miss Elizabeth Jean Pern' and JAMES L. QUINN, JR., '39, Lancaster, Pa., Feb. 5. 
Miss Catherine A. Cavanaugh and WILLI.\M C. RONEY, '49, Detroit, Mich., Feb. 12. 
Miss Dolores Dalpe and HARRY J. RYAN, '45, Notre Dame, Jan. 8. 
Miss Esther Corinne Seibert and RICHARD M. SADOWSKI, '45, Miami Beach, Fla., Mar. 1. 
Miss Jean Marjorie Boyle and DANIEL C. STEWART, '43, Chicago, Feb. 26. 
Miss Margaret Anne Collins and JAMES D. SULLIVAN, '49, Hamilton, Mont., Jan. 8. 
Miss Marilou Dreiss and JOHN C. WALSH, '49, Indianapolis, Ind., recently. 
ifiss Dorothy Whoit and WILLIAM H. WALSH, '49, PhUlipsburg, N. J., Feb. 9. 
Born to 
Mr. and Mrs. RICH.ARD A. ACCOE, ex-41, a daughter, Jan. 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD F. BREHL, '42, a son, John Patrick, Jan. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK BRENNAN, '40, a son, Feb. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. ANSELM S. BURKART, JR., '44, a son, Jan. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN N. CACKLEY, '37, a son, John Christopher, Feb. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. CARSON, '41, a daughter, Corinne Frances, Dec. 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK CONRAD, '39, a daugh­ter, Sarah Emeiie, Jan. 14. 
Dr. and Mrs. GERALD E. COSGROVE, JR., '45, A son, Dsvid ^Villiam, Jan. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. BERN.ARD A. CRIMMINS, '42, a son, Michael, Jan. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. JEROME M. DAVEY, '37, a daughter, Feb. 12. 
Dr. and Mis. ROBERT E. DONOVAN, '33, a son, Brendan Robert, Feb. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES W. DUKE, '38, a son, Jan. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. DUNLAVY, JR., '42, a son, Patrick John, Feb. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK C. EATON, '30, a son, Ridiard John, Nov. I. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD A. EVERETT, '32, a daughter, Jan. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLARD C. FORTIER, '29, a daughter^ Susan Kay, Nov. 26. 
Mr. and Mis. CHARLES F. FROBERGER, "44, a daughter, Jan. 21. 

Volume 27, No. 2, March-AprU, 1949 
Mr. and Mre. LAM.AR E. GOHN, '47, a ckugh­tcr, ^fa^tha Ann, Jan. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS F. GREEN, JR., '27, a son, Michael Ra>'mond, their seventh child, Jan. !9. 
yir. and Mrs. P. JORDAN HAMEL, '41, a son, Michael Anthony, Feb. 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES C. HANEY, '44, a son, Feb. 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. HANLY, JR., '41, a daughter, Mary Anne, Dec. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH M. HUGHES, '37, a son, Thomas Daniel, Feb. 11. 
Mr. and Mis. R.AYMOND J. KELLY, JR., '41, a son, Michael, Nov. 2. 
• Mr. and ifrs. RICHARD J. LAJOIE, '42, a son, William George, De c 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH W. LAUBER, '29, a daughter, Feb. 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES F. MAGNER, '40, a daughter, Jan. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. NEIL J. McCARTY, '42, a son, Joseph Dennis, Dec. 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES V. McVAY, '43, a son, John Mackey, Feb. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM F. MULRENAN, '37, a son, Timothy James, Jan. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH N. OBRECHT, e.T-46, a son,'Jan. 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD E. O'CONNELL, JR., '48, a son, Richard E., Ill, Jan. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES J. PERRIN, a son, Feb. 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK ROBERTS, JR., '49, a son, Richard Alan, Jan. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. HARRY F. SCHUBMEHL, '28, a son, James, Jan. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. GER.ALD E. STANTON, '44, a son, Robert Ward, Jan 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. MAURICE F. STAUDER, '41, a son, Philip, Sept. 28. 
Mr. and Mis. JOHN J. STAUNTON, '32, a son, Douglas Kinnaird Peter, Dec. 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE S. STRATIGOS, '43, a son, Feb. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. SULLIVAN, '40, a daughter, Maureen Patricia, Feb. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. F. HUGH WARD, '47, a son, Michael Hugh, Dec. 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. JEROME W. WAYNO, '47, a son, Jerome Walter, Jr., Feb. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. WIGGINS, '43, a daugh­ter, Laura, Dec. 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD P. WOJCIK, '42, a son, George Raymond, Jan. 3. 
Mr. and Mis. MICHAEL R. YARBENET, '47, a son, Jan. 15. 
Deaths 
JAMES FARRAGHER, 73 years old, who as a 
football player won monograms at Notre Dame in 
1900 and 1901, died in Youngstown, O., on Feb. 23. 
A resident of the campus in recent years, Mr. 
Farragher %vas employed on the golf course and in 
the Rockne Memivial Fieldhouse. 
Death overtook him while he was visiting relatives 
in Yoongstown, his '*home town", and he was 
buried there. Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C. S. C , executive assistant to the president, represented the University at the funeral. Survivors include a brother and three sisters. 
After his playing da>'s at Notre Dame, Mr. Far­ragher remained on the campus to coach the foot­ball team in the next two years, in keeping with a practice common in that era. 
One of the most memorable of Notre Dame figures left the old scenes on Jan. 23 when THOM\S F. OWEN, 67 years old, superintendent of service in the 
Dining Halls since the 
, ...„ building was opened in 
1927, died in Saint 
Joseph's Hospital, South 
Bend, after a long ill­
ness. He is surviv'ed by 
his vnte, by a son, 
Thomas B. Owen, *35, 
Rochester, N. Y., and by 
three sisters. 
Tommy—did anybody 
ever call him "Mister"? 
—u-as buried on Jan. 26 
in Cedar Grove Ceme­
tery, alongside the 
Notre Dame golf course 
and within easy view of 
the Dining Halls to 
which he gave so many 
devoted years. Rev . 
TOMMY OWEN Joseph A. Kehoe, 
C.S.C., director of stu­dent welfare, long a close personal friend of Tom and his family, sang the funeral Mass in Sacred Heart Church on the campus, and Rev. Edward J. Finnegan, C.S.C., pastor of the church, also dose to the family, preached the sermon. 
Pallbearers were John W. McAllister, Thomas Dri\-cr, David C. Ford, William J. Kesl, John A. Scannell and Louis C. Fritch. 
That's the factual record. But something more needs to be said because Tommy, espedally to the hundreds upon hundreds of waiter-alumni, was much more indeed than a factual record. To them particularly, the place will never be quite the same without him. 
And so the "Alumnus" is pleased to reprint here the "Religious Bulletin" of Feb. 3 in which Father William T. Craddick, C.S.C, prefect of religion, stunmed evcrj-thing up under the heading, "The Tommy You Didn't Know". (We can just hear, even now, Tom's devastating reaction to such a public unveiling of the holiness of his life, but we trust that he will forgivingly sacrifice himself for the inspiration of his friends). 
"Twenty-two years ago, Tommy Owen came down to Notre Dame from Chicago. That was in 1927 when the present Dining Hall was opened for the first time. He didn't plan to stay long. He did not know whether he would fit into this new work. His previous experience was in hotel'dining rooms. The work at the University would surround him with 3,000 young and ver>- hungry students three times each day. Maybe this change from the quiet hotel manner of work would be too much, thought Tommy, but it was not. 
"Up to a few weeks ago, Tommy was on the job. A stomach ailment sent him to bed and finally to the hospital. His condition grew worse, and he died in five da>-s, on Sunday, Jan. 23, while you were in the midst of your examinations. 
"Among the students, it was the waiters who came in crontact with Tommy most. They perhaps remember him as their shouting, tongue-lashing supervisor who kept them hustling. It was bis re­sponsibility to see that ever>*one was served efficient-
God, Country, Notre Dame In Glory Everlasting 
The ALUMNUS has only recently heard of the death of Corp. Andries A. Curtin, '34, Famams, Mass., who was missing from the Army in Alaska in February, 1945, and was later officially declared by the government to be deceased. He served as an Alaskan scout for the Army and disappeared while blazing a trail far above the Arctic Circle. Egbert Curtin, *23, Adams, Mass., is a sur­viving brother. 
ly at all regular student meals, luccheons and special dinncis. Sometimes hb student-waitcis would be late, or %irould not appear, or would be careless in handlii^ dishes. It was on scans dm lack of a sense of responsibility that Tommy became a little stroi^ in his language. 
"The exacting Tommy was the man the itudrott knew. Very few knew his deep spiritual life. He himself was the first to know when he had really lost his temper nvith the waiters, and was not simfdy forceful of speech. The students ne\-er had the chance to see his quick repentance, but a priest-friend did, because Tommy used to come to him striking his breast and beg^^i^ God to gi\-c him the grace to be more calm. 
"The Dillon Hall chape! saw Tommy nearly every day of the week, not for a few minutes of prayer, but for dose to an bour. The recitation of the Rosary occupied his attention most of the time. His reflections on the Mysteries in the life of Our Blessed Lord were deep. The Crucifixion of Christ impressed him so much that he could not keep lus thoughts tc himself, and it was to a priest-hiend he would visit on leaving the chapel to discuss the greatness of Christ's sufferings for men. 
"Tommy never went throt^h his day alone, after he became a com-crt scnne ten years ago. The Faith taught him that Our Blessed Lord and His Mother accompanied him wherever he went. H b Faith was so lively that he could see Christ and &fary at his side, and many moments of his day were spent talking to them. 
**The man you did not know went to confeswm monthly as a preparation for his First Friday Com­munion. He served an early Mass in one of the hall chapels before going to work on Sunday mom­iogs. In recent years be suffered conuderably, fint from bad eyes, then from a bad heart and then from the fatal stomach condition. But he never quit, because, as he often said, Christ had to suffer a lot more. 
"The thing you could never see in Tommy Owen was his soul that reached out and touched God day in and day out. This ts the stuff of whidi the saints are made. Rray for him. We like to tlunk he is in Heaven continuing hn chats with Our Lord and Our Lady, and waving to all the waiters as they gather from the outposts of Farailrse to see this little fellow from Notre Dame." 
THOMAS J. DILLON, student at Notre Dame in the late '90*3, died in Piedmont, Calif., on Jan. 
27. He was a former editor-in-chief of the "BCn­neapolis Tribune" and a nationally known news­paperman. Earlier in his career he was the founder and first editor of the "Portland (Ore.) Ne%n," as wen as managing eifitor of the "Seattle Fost-Intdli* gencer." He retired from the "Minneapolis Trib­une" in 1945. Surviving him are his wife and a son. 
PHILIP G. DOWNEY, student in 1915-16, died in South Bend on Jan. 13 from a heart ailment. He is survived by his mother and by his brother, Russel H. Downey, '16. 
Lately manager of the Dowagiac Saw KfiU and Lumber Co., Dowagiac, Mich., Mr. Downey in earlier years was vice-president of the Frank Lumber and Coal Co., Mishawaka, Ind., and associated with the South Bend Printing Co. and the Marquette Lumber Co. 
PAUL J. BRODERICK, *26 died suddenly of a heart attack on Jan. 26 in his hoote in New York City. He is survived by a brother and two sisters. With one of the latter, Mrs. W. G. Doelker, be made his hcxne at 40 E. 88th St., New Yo ^ 
Full had been associated writh Fwamonnt nctnres. Inc., ever since Jan. 3, 1928, when he joined the company as supervisor in the sales statistical depart­ment. He was promoted to chief accountant in Puamoont's Boston <^ke the foOowii^r year and in 1939 became boc^ng manager and chief account­ant in Boston. 
Serving in the Army from October, 196, until September, 1945, Puil was ISiamount oSioe mana­ger in Qucago, until July, 1947, when be returned to the New Yoric oflBcc to do special brandi survey 
CLAIRE R. GAUKLER. '18, Fbntiac. Midi., died of a heart attack in ^sMiac on De c 13, accor^ng to brief word reaching the Ahmmi Office. 
CLARENCE R. '*TURK" REILLY, Chicago, a member of the class of '27, died unexpectedly in 

Chicago on De c 27, following a brief illness. SufTcr­
ing from a hea\'y cold over Christmas be entered 
a hospital, where a heart block caused bis death. 
A standout end in football at DePauI Academy 
in Chicago, Turk was a member of the football 
squad at Notre Dame. He later became nationally 
known as a founder and former president of the 
Small Business Men's League. At the time of bis 
death he was associated with Dow-Jones, Inc. of 
New York. 

Sur\-i\ins Turk arc his wife, Mar>- Jo Ruckrigel 
Reilly, a graduate of St. Mar>'s College, Notre 
Dame, two daughters, a son, three brothers and two 
sisters. 

A.\RON WALLER MASON, '29, of Chicago, 
died there on Jan. 26 as the result of injuries 
suffered on Jan. 24 when he was hit by an auto­
mobile while crossing a street intersection. He 
V'-as buried in his home town of Morganfield, Ky., 
on Jan. 29. 

A staff research engineer wiih the Illinois BcU 
Telephone Co. in Chicago, Aaron was assigned 
during World War 11 to secret investigative work 
on radar. His missions for the federal government 
and his company took him to various cities in the 
United States. 

Surv-i\-ing him are Mrs. Mason and three children, 
as well as his parents and two sisters. 

JOHN J. ROCHE, '34, West New Brighton, 
Staten Island, N. Y., died on Jan. 13 in his home 
after a long illness. 

John was a ciril engineer, cmplo\ed by the U. S-Army Corps of Engineers in Manhattan, He is survived by his wife, Stephanie, and by a son, John, and a daughter, Klarj-, as well as by two brothers and a sister. 
He was buried in CaU-ary Cemeter>-, Long Island City. 
CLIFFORD G. BUCKLEY, '41, his wife, Rose­mary, and their only child, Michael, four >'ears old, were killed outright on Jan 29, when a freight train struck their automobile near Lake Genex-a, Wis. 
The Buckle\-s were on their v*'ay from their home in Milwaukee to visit Mrs. Buckley's parents, Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Deneen, of Harv-ard, 111. Police said that there were no automatic warning signals at the crossing where the tragedy occurred. 
Cliff, a major in the Army in World War II, was employed by the Remington-Rand Co. in Milwau­kee and bad lived there for four years. He was bom in Valley Stream, L. L, N. Y., where his parents, Mr. and Mrs. John J. Buckley, reside. A brother, John, is a student at Notre Dame. 
Mrs. Buckley is surxi\-ed by her parents and by three brothers. The three members of the family were buried in Harvard, HI. 
ROBERT W. SROGLUND, Chicago, B.N.S. '46, 
B.S.C. '48, died on Jan. I of a kidney infection. He is sur\i\"cd by his parents and by a brother, Leonard H., Jr., '38. 
Bom in Chicago on July 29, 1925, Bob attended Loyola High School, where he stood out as a tackle in football and u-as chosen on most all-caty teams. Entering Notre Dame in July 1943, as a NHOTC student. Bob did not report for football practice until the spring of 1944. He w-as a standout end in 1944-45-46, following the pattern of his brother in the same position in 1935-36-37. 
Bob was signed by the Green Bay Packers, pro football team, for the 1947 and 1948 seasons, but did not play .in the latter campaign because of a knee injur>' suffered in a pre-season exhibition game. The infection which ultimately took his life first showed itself soon after he underwent a knee opera' tion in Noxxmber. 
JOHN L. CAWXEY, '48, Chisholm, Minn., died in KGlK-aukee on Dec. 21 following a ten-day illness from an, 'intestinal condition. He w-as in die first year of his law couise at Marquette . University, MilH-aukee. 
A V-12 student at Notre Dame, John « ^ com-mi^ioned an ensign in the Naw on Oct. 26, 1944, and later studied at Ohio State University. He 5er\*ed in the Pacific on Okinawa and Guam and in the Philippines. He reentered Notre Dame upon his discharge from service and finished his work as a philosophy major in January, 1948, receiving his A.B., cum laude, in June. 
Suri-iving John are his parents and two brothers. 
The **AIumnus" extends sincere S)'mpathy to JOSEPH A. ABBOTT, '30, on the death of his mother; to LOUIS W. APONE, '41, on the death of his wife; to WADE J., '41, and JOSEPH L. BRADY, '46, on the death of their mother; to JOSEPH D. DEMURO, '48, on the death of his mother; to JAMES F. DONOGHUE, '48, on the death of his father; to WILLIAM R. DOOLEY, '26, on the death of his father; to WILLIAM F. FOX, JR., '20, on the death of his father; to JOHN 
E. GUENDLING, ex-17, on the death of his father; to FRANK L. LIN'TON, '34, on the death of his mother; to J.AMES M. REILLEY, ex-38, on the death of his mother; to JOHN J. SIMKO, '32, on the death of his mother; to PROF. ANDREW T. SMITHBERGER, '27, on the death of his mother; to JOHN P. TRAYNOR, '25, on the death of his mother; to A. H.\ROLD WEBER, '22, on the death of his mother; to REV. FRANK S. ^VYSS, C.S.C., '19, on the death of his father. 
Personals 
Before 1900: 
Class of 1899 50-YEAR REUNION June 10, 11 and 12 
ERNEST F. D U BRUL, '92, and his wife of Cindnnati celebrated their 50th .Annix-ersary on Fd>, 
1. Congratulations to them! 
LOUIS C. M. REED, '00, prominent New York City exporter and world traveler on Jan. 12 delivered the fifth in a scries of nine Bishop O'Hata Seminar Lectures in the College of Commerce at Notre Dame. 
REV. iLATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C.S.C., *99, chaplain and professor of theolog>* at St. Mary's College, Notre Dame., as a member of the Board of Directors of the Catholic Theological Society of America attended the annual meeting of the society's committee on program arrangements held in Wash­ington, D. C, on Jan 13. Father Schumacher also visited in New York where he saw Rev. James Keller, ^L^L and Rev. James M. Gillis, C.S.P. 
DR. ALBERT F. ZAHif, '83, Washington, D. C , has made a satisfactory recovery from the injuries suffered in a traffic acident on Dec. 21 when he slipped as he was approaching a streetcar loading platform and a taxi ran over his leg. 
1900-09 
Robert E. Proctor, Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Ind. 
Classes of 1904 and 1909 
45-YEAR REUNION 
and 
40-YEAR REUNION June 10, 11 and 12 
REV. CORNELIUS DONOVAN, '09, formerly pastor of St. ^lonica's church in South Boston, was appointed as the new pastor of St. Mar>-'s church. West Quincj*, Mass. 
"Brother Alexander: A Just ^^an", which ap­peared in The Associate of Saint Joseph, in October, 1948, was written by REV. C»R.\'ELIUS HAGER­TY, C.S.C., '06, and has now reappeared in re­print form. Brother Alexander entered the Con­gregation of Holy Cross on JiJy 11, 1873, and died February- 17, 1926. As all alumni of the era know, he was one of the towering figures of Notre Dame histor>' and Father Cornelius Hagerty has done a fine new portrayal of him. 
19 11 
Fred L. Steers, 105 S. LaSalle St. Chicago 3, 111. 
J.'\P LAWTON's young son, Louie, of South Bend, is a campus hero at Highlands Univeisity, 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Las Vegas, New Mex. His last second field goal tied the score at 47-47 against New Mexico State Teadiers and then Highlands went on to win, 53-52, in overtime. 
1913 
Paul R. Byrne, University Library, Notre Dame, Ind. 
BILL COTTER, for his chairmanship of the 1948 campaign of the United Negro Collie Fund which raised $1,066,000, recei\'ed a certificate of merit. The certificate was presented to him by William H. Jones, president of Tillotson College in Austin, Texas, one of the thirty-one Negro colleges in the country assodatcd with the Fund. 
1914 
Ira W. Hurley 231 S. LaSalle St, Chicago, 111. 
Class of 1914 35-YEAR REUNION June 10, 11 and 12 
IRA HURLEY in February wrote to all members 
of the class of 1914, urging an all-^out attendance 
at the 35th anntversaty of the class on Friday, Satur­
day and Sunday, June 10, 11 and 12 at Notre 
Dame. WALTER CLEMENTS of South Bend will 
be the local chairman in charge. 
Campus plans for the Reunion are progressing. 
Since the Commencement and the Reunion are 
being separated this year for the first time, ex­
pansion of the program for the latter is in order. 
Local committees are working tou-ard that end and 
you'll be hearing more later, by U. S. mall and 
through the "Alumnus." 
The big thing now is to set aside the dates. Resi­dence accommodations will of course be a\-ailable for all alumni on the campus. 
1919 
Clarent* W, Badcr 921 Broadway, Gary, Ind. 
Class of 1919 
30-YEAR REUNION June 10, 11 and 12 
1920 
Leo B. Ward, 458 Spring St, Los Angeles 3, Calif. 
From LEO WARD: During the activities surrounding the Notre Dame-U.S.C. game I was pleased to see BILL FOX of Indianapolis. He came out with the team. Also here for the game was Slip Iblafh'gan, who ran a special train from San Francisco. Those of 1920 may remember FRANK KIERNAN of Portland. • As you may recall, smnmiing actin­ties were not sufficiently important at Notre Dame for Frank's prowess so he left Notre Dame and went to Yale. JIM DOOLEY from Massachusetts came out for the game, as did JIM MARTIN, of Chicago. ­MAURICE "Oipper" Smith is again in Cali­fornia, having completed the season as coach of the Boston professional football team in the National League. GENE KENNEDY was seen around the BUtmore Hotel with his bride. HUGH BREEN, one of the local stockbrokers, took time off from lis worries rtoot the stock market in the interest of the Foundation as well as the game. TOM HEARN, state governor of the Foundation,' has been quite in and confined in the Birmingham Veterans Hos|ritaI at Van Nuys, Calif. I lecdved a note from MSGR. TOM TOBIN, vicai-general of the Ardidiocese of Portland, Ore.,' who has recenUy lelunied from Rome. He is very 
?'"^u'^T"^ "• *" *"'' "f ••« Sisters of St. 
Joseph Calaianctius and is sponsoring requests for 

Volume 27, No. 2, March-April, 1949 
assutance to the Sisten in establishing homes for and helping the cbildreii of convicts. Any assist­ance is sincerely appreciated. SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
RICHARD C. MUCKERAIAN sold the controll­ing interest in the St. Louis Browns baseball club of the American league to the DcWitt brothers— Bill and Charley. Dick had been president of the club. 
1921 
Dan W. Duffy, 1101 N.B.C. Building, Cleveland 14, O. 

MAURICE J. "CLIPPER" SMITH has been named head football coach at Lafayette college in Easton, Fa. where, he says, he will employ his own version of the T-formation when he assumes charge of the team. Clipper has been residing in Laguna Beach, Calif. He coached the Boston Yanks last season. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 39 Cambridge St., Rochester 7, N. Y. 

From KID ASHE: Our Chicago reporters inform U5 that EDDIE BYRNE of Natchez, Miss, and WILF DWYER of London, O., failed to show this year at Chicago's annual furniture exhibition. In attendance were CHARLIE DAVIS, '21, and brother John, '28, of Oswego, N. Y. Our thanks to JOE DUFFEY, vice president of Diamond Afatch, who rendered wonderful coopera­tion through his company to assist Charlie Davis, general chairman of Oswego New York's Centennial exhibition in putting on a most successful celebra­tion a few months ago. The JOE PARLEYS, who have been residents of Chicago's south side for many years, are now living in LaGrange, 111. They are now fairly close to the Western Springs McKEES. 
MONSIGNOB GOEBEL 
Our sympathy is extended to HON. AL SCOTT and others of the Scott family over the death, some months ago,' of Father Pat Scott of Los REV. TIBURTIUS A. GOEBEL, A.B., '89, Angeles. Father Pat was a brother of Al. Like­

M.A. '95, retired pastor of St. Mary's 
wise, we offer sympathy to JERRY, SHERWOOD 
Church, Portsmouth, O., was recently ele­
and BOB DIXON—all graduates of Notre Dame, on the death of their beloved mother who died vated to the rank of domestic prelate with last September in Dixon, 111. A few weeks after the title of right reverend monsignor. Mother Dixon's death, her son—Sherwood was elected lieutenant governor of Illinois on the Demo­In his 79th year and priest for
a more cratic ticket. than 55 years, 36 of which were spent as JERRY DIXON attended inauguration ceremonies pastor of St. Mary's Church in Portsmouth, 
in Springfield, 111. in early January. Monsignor Goebel was bom in Marietta, Your scribe had a short but most pleasant visit O., the youngest of seven children. A between trains in Omaha with JERRY BARRETT 
brother, Joseph, 89, still lives in the family 
recently. Jerry was nursing a heavy cold. He was 
bemoaning the fact that changes at Notre Dame are 
homestead in Marietta. Another brother. occuring so fast that he finds it difficult to know Rev. William Goebel, was a priest in the what's what, and the location thereof. archdiocese of Milwaukee for 62 years, 
It was reported in the daily press a short time dying in 1943. ago that D. WORTH CLARK, former U. S. Sena­
Ordained in 1893, Monsignor Goebel 
tor of Idaho, was in China on a special mission of inxestigation for the government. served in Wheelersburg, Woodsfield and On Nov. 20 last, Margueritte Hirschbuhl, daughter Coshocton, all in Ohio, before he was as­of the CHARLIE HIRSCHBUHLS of Portland, signed to St. Mar>''s in Portsmouth in 1912. 
Ore., was the bride of Donald Drake in a wedding 
In that city he directed the erection of 
at Portland. Margueritte was graduated last June 
from the Dominican College, San Rafael, Calif. 
many parochial buildings and was instru­mental in founding Mercy Hospital, in ad­
Our sympathy is tendered to family of EUGENE HEIDELMAN of Altadcna, Calif, whose death was dition to doing notable work among con­recorded in last issue of the "Alumnus." Gene was verts. One of his current interests is the a - real student and friend. Who can forget his 
proposed new Portsmouth Central Catholic 
gracious and friendly manner when they vbited the Notre Dame Book Store back in our days? Gene High School, the ground for which Mon­and his partner, BILL MURPHY, will always be signor Goebel helped procure. remembered as a perfect combination, and Bill must, indeed, feel Gene's death very keenly, as do wc all. 
R. I. P. 
1923 
JOHN HUETHER, Schenectady, N. Y. has been Paul H. Castner, 1305 W. Arlington named central station divisions general manager of 
Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 
the General Electric's apparatus department. Jack will also continue in his capacity as manager of the A Notre Dame alumnus, J. MARION ROBERT­
G. E. transportation division. His latest promotion SON, Marshall, Mo., who ne\-er made the football tops a steady rise in the company since he joined up team, arrived in the United States in December as student test engineer in 1922. Warm congratula­
from Europe with what he hopes will be a future tions are in order. 
compensation for the varsity—three blue-eyed, firecUed Irish orpliaa hott. And he abo had a fittfe gjri. The duldrea were Charles, 4; Clare, 3; \Gdiad, 18 months; and Tommr, 11 moaai. Marion, a fmner, is a fonncr prosecutor of SiHws County, Mo. He and hii wife sailed for Eonpe in September with the intentioa of adopting two orphans. Tbrr came back with four—mt itlated to each other. 
1924 
James F. Hayes, 4 Lyons Place Larclunon^ N. Y. 
Oass of 1924 25-YEAR REUNION June 10,11 and 12 
FATHER GABRIEL DIEFENBACH, O.F3f., visited the campus recently when he was at St. Mary's Collese, Notre Dame. Father's address is 210 W. 3Ist St., New YoA Gty. 
JIM HURLEY of LaSalle, 10., a Te Demn Forum and Te Deum International leader, was on the com­mittee when it. sponsored an address by Count Kurt Von Schuscbnigg, formerly chancellor of Austria, in LaSalle. 
1925 
John P. Hurley, The Toledo Parlor Furniture Co., Toledo, O. 
From JOHN HURLEY: PAUL J. DUFAUD writes: "Your letter in the recent 'Alumnus' was certainly enjoyed here. That letter is probably showing remits abeadr bT bring­ing responses from near and for, it would certainly be nice to hear about more of the '25en and vdiat "they are doing. [I^nl, I wish I could say the results were good, but if you hadn't written the results would have been nil]. "There are too many of the leaders of '25 who seem to have 'retired' £ram the news . . . such as BISCHOFF, CHARLES CASEY, CHUCK COU LINS, WALT CYR, DONAHUE, DAN HICKEY, JERRY HOLLAND, EV. KOHL, UVEKGOOD. HARRY McGUntE, HcNABIEE, MACNAB, NEITZEL, PAUL RAHE, SAGSTETTER, JACK SCALLAN, AL SOHMER. SUTLIFFE, TOOLEN, ADAM WALSH. "As you mentioned xo your letter, the men of '2S were responsible for many 'firsts', wasn't that in­surance annuity on BISCHOFF or DON MTT.I.FK original? Is it still in forc« and how are the premiums paid? "Could we '25ers raise $25,000 in twenty months and donate it to Notre Dame at our 25th anniver­sary? It could be as an ontr^ht gift or the setting up of a worthy foundation with only the income available. . . . This is 'just an idea, JcAn, and yoa and JIM ARMSTRONG are in the best position to know the answer." Thanks, Paul, for a swell idea .. . yoa ifida't want credit for it . . . let's get some ideas from more people. PAUL HOEFFLER sent me a card on my birth­day . . . you guessed it Paul is still in the insurance business. PAUL DOOLEY sat at our table recently along with ART SUDER, '26. Art's wife had a baby recendy so Art does not feel so old. Bud is fine and has two boys. WALTER HAECKER called me a few days before Christmas. He was in a rush, so we dicfai't have a long visit. Butch is going great guns with Good­rich down in Jacksonville, Fla. Let's hear from the rest of you fellcms. 
CLARENCE HARDING, public rchitions director for the South Bend "Tribune", talked to a Notre Dame dass in advertisii^ on newspaper market research. 
JOHN KELLEY of Michigan CSty, Ind. is the new state highway commission engineer in diarge of the LaPkirte lEstrict. 
The newly'appointed diairman of the St. Joseph county organization of the United Slates savings bonds fvinoh is AL McGANN, South Bend. 
DR. JOHN WHTTMAN has retired as chief librarian at King's College, WDkes-Barre, IV, t». devote an hts time to his teadung ass^nments. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1926 
Victor F. Lemmer, Box 661, Ironwood, Mich. 

From VIC LEMMER: The winner of my contest of "free dues for 1949" for a member of the Class of 1926 goes to J. VIN­CENT SOISSON, West Penn Power Co., Charleroi, Pa. It may be of interest to you and members of the class of 1926 ta hear that Vince Soisson has been u-ith the West Penn Power Co. ever since he gradu­ated from Notre Dame as an engineer. Recently, Vince, was promoted to Charleroi and said promo­tion is the third one in two years. Recently, while in Detroit, I had a visit with ED CROWE, who is the director of the C.Y.O. of Cardinal }lIooney's archdiocese. Ed is doing a mar\'elous job as director and recently he was moved to elaborate new headquarters in a large business building in the heart of Detroit, said building being purchased by one of the Catholic parishes in Detroit. I suppose you know that JIM LEONARD, former Notre Dame football star, is the new coach at Villanova College, where my son Bill is a student. During the football season. Bill saw SCRAPIROX YOUNG when the University of San Francisco and Villanova played at Philadelphia. Bill was a member of the Villanova \'arsity 150-pound team. He was a quarterback, and plajTd against Princeton, Rut­gers, Cornell and Penns>-K-ania. 
On his first xisit to the campus in 14 years, REX EXRIGHT head football coach at the University of South Carolina stopped off in Januar>' to take in the DePauI-Notre Dame basketball game as he was enroute home from the coaches' meeting at San Francisco. 
FRED FERGUSON is an attorney in Lorain, O., with his office at 113 Gould Block, 606 Broadway. 
JOE HYL.\ND is the director of public relations for the General Analine and Film Corp., 230 Park Ave., New York City I". 
1927 
Joseph M. Boland, Radio Station WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 

PAT DONAHUE, Fort Wa>-ne, has been ap­pointed Indiana deputy securities commissioner by the Secretary of State, Charles E. Fleming. Pat was formerly with the Alcohol Tax Division of the International Rewnue Department. 
TOMMY GREEN of Conroe, Tcras, is part of the law firm of Green and Taylor, West Building. The Greens now have four bo>'s and three girls, with ^lichael Raymond as the latest addition on Jan. 19. 
D.-\N MOORE (father of eight if the editorial memory* is functioning) is with the Western Electric Co. in Duluth, Minn. His home address is 2219 E. Superior St., Duluth. Dan recently transferred from the Chicago area plant of Western Electric. 
M.AURICE PETTIT, director of the St. Joseph county (South Bend) department of public welfare ever since the department was created in 1936, has resigned. CES.\R JANESHESKL *30, an employe of the department for the past ten years, has been appointed acting assistant director while the county welfare board considers a permanent successor. 
D.AVE VAN WALLACE, 115 North Ave., Mt. Clemens, Mich., has joined the Guardian Life In­surance Co. as a sales representative in the Mt. Clemens-Detroit area. .Announcement of his appoint­ment was made by the company on Jan. 31 in a special letter to the members of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit. 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley, 4700 W. Adams St, Chicago 44, III. 
From LOU BUCKLEY: 

I regnt to nport that ED McKEOWN vas vtrr seriously injured in am automobile accident on Nov. 
3. He has been in Mercy Hospital in Chicago for the past three months. I hope by the time tltis is in print that Ed will be home at 7315 Emerald 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Gene Melody 
For more than forty years. Gene Melady of Omaha, a member of the class of '91, has been sending out St. Patrick's Day cards to hundreds of his friends. 
Not only docs he send the cards out — he designs them himself, writes his own verse or sentiment and each card carries his picture. Innumerable persons, hearing of his custom, have written to request his cards. Some lasting friendships have re­sulted. 
Since 1900, Mr. Melady has been a live­stock commission merchant in Omaha. Bom in southern Minnesota, the son of Ireland­bom parents, he spent his youth in St. Paul. .At Notre Dame he was a member of the first football team in 1888 and has remained all his life a strong advocate of sports. For ten years, Mr. Melady was manager of Earl Caddock, world's heav>- wrestling champion, and for many years he promoted boxing matches and wrestling matches. 
P.S.: The cards are printed in green and the envelopes are addressed in green. 
.Ave. in Chicago. Drop him a line there. • 
BILL DWYER and I got together for a good session recendy. Bill is in the advertising business here in Chicago v,\ih Raymond C. Hudson & Asso­ciates, 205 W. Wackcr Drive. He has three children. 
I u-as talking K-ilh CECIL ALEXANDER who is in the insurance business at 29 S. LaSalle. Cecil tells me ART GOLDBERG is general counsel for Balaban & Katz here in Chicago. 
The '28 class was well represented at the St. Joseph Valley Club Football testimonial dinner at Nou^ Dame in January. FLOYD SEARER was general chairman of the aifair and J.ACK LA­VELLE came from New York to act as toastmaster. Jack has the disdnction of putting on more pounds than any other '28 man since graduadoB. I saw FRANK DONOV.AN who .came from Muskegon, Mich., for the affair. He reported that he saw CHARLEY MURPHY, formerly of Ogden, Utah, at the Southern California game. Charley is in Los Angeles with the Government. Frank also re­ported that MICKEY QUALTERS is now on the West Coast with Kaiser Steel. BILL JONES, who was elected to the Alumni Board recently. 
fram Washington, D. C , to attend the dinner and 
Alumni Board meeting. 
I received a "Back Home in Indiana" Christmas 
card from BOB GRANT indicating that Bob, his 
%vife, and two children have returned to Indiana 
after completing five terms in Congress. No matter 
how busy Bob was in Congress, where he served as 
a member of the Committee on Naval Affairs and 
the Ways and Means Committee, he always found 
time to give me some news for this column when 
I called upon him. Bob, our first and only '28 
man to have served in Congress, has our best wishes 
on his return to Indiana to resume the practice of 
law as a member of the firm of Voor, Jackson, 
Grant & McMichacI in South Bend and associated 
with the firm of Mollahan S: Willingham in Wash­
ington, D. C. Bob expects to give special attention 
to the problems of taxation in his practice. 
A picture of GEORGE SCHEUER appeared in 
the South Bend "Tribune" recently. George, avia­
tion writer for the "Tribune" and vice-president 
of the Aviation Writets Association, has received a 
plaque for being one of the first civilians to ride in 
the fiOO-mile-an-hour Lockheed Shooting Stats. 
We are glad to note the many letters in *'Amcr­
ica" praising JOE BREIG'S famous column, "The 
Word," which appears regularly in that magazine. 
Keep up the good work, Joe. 
I received the usual fine cooperation this month 
from classmates upon whom I called for news. With 
my most sincere thanks to the following Io>al cor­
respondents, I give you their letters: 
From JOE LANGTON, 5338 Ikfeosho, St. Louis 9, Mo., *'I am the only member of our class in the St. LouU area now since BERNIE CROWLEY moved to Southern Illinois where he is practicing and since FATHER JIM McSHANE was transferred farther north. I get reports on CARROLL PINK­LEY every so often from his brother, T. C. of the class of '33. T. C. works for Phillips at Portage­viUe. I did run into JOE MORRISSEY after the Northwestern game in the parking lot and Joe ran the same old interference he used to in getting both of us out of the maze of cars. He can still pick those holes. 
"I spent a m'ce hour with BISHOP O'HARA last 
summer when my wife and I were on our vacadon. 
We stopped in BuHalo for a day and went out to 
see the Bishop. He hasn't changed a bit and would 
sure like to be back at Notre Dame. 
"As for myself, I'm still at the old stand at 
Phillips Petroleum here in St. Louis. The children 
are getting older now. Mike, our youngest, started 
to kindergarten last fall and the girls, Molly and 
Susan are both doing fine in school." 
From AL SCHNURR, Architect, Sandusky, O., who is president of the Sandusky Notre Dame Club: "RUSS SMITH now living at his new home on the Cedar Point Road has his own Ready Alix Concrete plant and doing OK. As you know, he was at the reunion last June. 1 was to go with him, but busi­ness interfered at the last minute. 
**As for myself, I'm living in my new home too —we are about a mile out of the city on a three-acre plot, swell spot for truck gardening and picnics —expect to have our local Notre Dame Club out for barbecue when the weather gets nice again. As president of the local Notre Dame Club I have called a meeting for next Wednesday night with the 
'question of 'raising a litUe money for the Founda­tion." 
From ED DEAN, Pittsburgh Steel Co., Monessen, Pa., who is president of the Monongahela Valley Nou^ Dame Club: "Dr. FRANK HEGARTY is practicing medicine so faithfully he is seldom seen. His oflSces are in the Union Trust BIdg., in Pitts­burgh. I see him occasionally at Notre Dame affairs and he's still the same quiet, dignified Frank. JACK SHEEDY is a life insurance salesman deluxe in Pittsburgh and to quote JOHN McMAHON 'Bald top Sheedy is still no less active with the golf clubs." TURK MIENERT is an accountant with the Allegheny Building Supply and, I believe, is associated with CHUCK MEDLAND, '31. CHARLES TOTTEN, the golfer extraordinary, is a salesman with the Forest Lumber Co. He devotes about one week in four to his Ohio territory. Chariey has five children and the oldest will be Notre Dame timber in a couple of more years. His brother RAY, '30, was just recently ordained to the priesthood and a in Columbus, O. FRITZ WIL­SON, JOHN McSORLEY and JOHN McMAHON »«re '28ers at the annual retreat which «ns held by the Western Pennsylvania Club at St. Paul's retreat 

Volume 27, No. 2, March-April, 1949 
house in Pittsburgh on the second weekend of the 
new year. 
"As for myself, Lou, I have four children and am 
still associated with the Pittsburgh Steel Co. JOHN 
IGOE sells our steel out of the Cleveland, O., 
office. (Notre Dame teamwork). Howe^Tr, I 
haven't seen Johnny for years, I guess you know 
of the accomplishments of JOHN AfcMAHON, 
Foundation governor, director, Industrial Hygiene 
Foundation, father of two children, etc." 
And, last, but not least, our old M. C , BOB KIRBY, from North Meridian at 19th St., India­napolis 2, Ind.; "I'm ashamed to even attempt to fill your request for information to be used in the '28 column. I have had practically no contacts with '28 men since the class reunion—and for good reason —after three cbys in Morrissey Hall—particularly WILL WAGNER'S parlor in the basement—I felt like a member of the class of 1908. 
"I had a note from VINC DUCEY just the other day—he's now in Sacramento, Calif.—some con­nection with the State—I hope it^s not the parole board. While in Washington for the inauguration last week I had a chocolate soda or three with TOM McKEVITT, president of the Notre Dame Club in Washington—out of which conversation came, the thought to give BILL JONES a call—no Bill avail­able at that time—Truman kept me so bus>' from then on that I just didn't follow through. 
"After all, Lou, I'm so much younger than the 
rest of the '28 gang you just can't expect me to 
associate with that bunch of seniles that I saw up 
at school last June. Confidentially, I'll probably 
have a pair of twin daughters at St. Mary's next 
year." 
Our new president of the Alumni Association, FRANK WALLACE, has given me the assignment of working with secretaries of other classes in de­veloping class notes and reunion activities. I hope you all realize what a spot you '28 fellou-s will place me in if you do not continue to come through with news for this column. Many of you told me at the reunion how much you enjoy reading '28 news. The column depends upon items of news reaching me. A sphinx-like silence is not to be commended, nor in this case is modesty a virtue. Even if you have nothing to report other than the fact that you are alive (an accomplishment with the present high cost of living) and doing business at the same old stand, that is news for our purpose. Please write your secretary*. If you are in Chicago give me a call (State 2-0012) or stop in to see me at the Federal Security Agenc>' Regional Office on the second floor at 69 W. Washington St. 
Two additional letters arrived after the com­pletion of the above which are welcomed additions. Our old friend of freshman da>-s, HENRY CLEM­ENT, WTOte from 121 Watching Avenue, Plainfield, 
N. J., where he is practicing law. Remember when Henry set up a barber shop in our room in Fresh­man Hall? Henrj' WTitcs as folloivs: 
"It u*as nice having a note from you and to learn that you were talking with JOHN WINBERRY. John, as you know, was appointed Special Assistant Attorney-General to investigate gambling in Middle­sex County, N. J. 
"I see ED DUGGAN, '26, once in a while. He is practicing law in Newark, N. J. I have had a recent contact with RUSS RILEY, who is a city commissioner in Orange, N. J. TONY CERES, whom you certainly remember, is still teaching school in Perth Amboy, N. J. at last reports, and also practicing law. I ran across JOE NULTY, who is a probation officer for the County Union and is doing an excellent job. 
"JOHN WINBERRY tells me that he sees DOC BRESLIN occasionally. Doc is practicing law in Hackensack, N. J. I am practicing law in Plain­field and have been the city judge here for the past seven years. It was loo bad I did not have your address or did not know you were in Chicago when I was out there in October attending the National Safety Congress." 
Good old dependable BOB HAMILTON came through with the following from New York City: 
"Glad to have received your note and will do my bit toward keeping our class column one of the best and newsiest of them all—thanks to your untiring efforts. And before forgetting again I want WILLARD WAGNER to know that I think he did a superb job at our 20th Reunion—here's hoping he'll do it again for the 25th. To haw seen so many of the old gang together again was a real thrill and I must say that time has been good to most of us. 
"After having taken some expensive lessons from 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
If we weren't dealing with such a modest man we'd have above a picture of Hon. J. Thomas Riley, '23, mayor of the village of Franklin, O., since 1925 with the exception of two two-year terms. 
When we heard about Tom's exceptional record in guiding the affairs of Franklin we asked him for a photograph of himself. He said in reply: ".. . I have done very little in my life to receive the applaud of anyone and I am afraid what I have done in my small way here in Franklin would be of very little interest to the readers of the ALUMNUS. .. . I am sorry that I cannot send you a picture of myself." 
Undismayed by such modesty, we turned next to A. D. Webner, news editor of The Franklin Chronicle, asking him for a late picture of Mayor Riley. Up to press time. His Honor and the local press were work­ing in close cooperation. Result: no picture. 
So you'll have to use your imagination. 
We can tell you that Tom, an attorney, during his twenty-one years as mayor of Franklin has been untiring in his efforts to make his community a better place. New bridges, new sewers, new paving, new street lights — these are just part of the story. All the while Franklin has enjoyed the soundest financial standing and has been able to meet increased municipal costs with­out undue taxation. 
Does Tom like it? Speaking of other Notre Dame alumni, he says, "between you and me I would not have traded my job with any of them. .. . I want you to know that the teachings and ethics I learned so well at Notre Dame have helped and guided me in many of my findings and decisions . . ." 
Tom was married in 1930 and he and his wife have a daughter, Paula Ann. 
BILL CRONIN diirii« the trip out by tnia oa 
bow not to phr Hoflyvrood Gin, it «as tan to sit ia 
on a thiee-cMnCTtd gune at sdiool with Ii ^ aad 
GEORGE GOURY and to watdi those two pbr 
for 'blood'. It was more of a pleasure since the 
'experts' did not take me to the deaneis. Bfjr ofliy 
regret is that Cronin did not come home am the ' 
same train—I might have broken even on the ndiole 
trip! Old icEable GEORGE CRONGEYER was a 
kibitzer all the way. 
"On the war back DOC BRADLEY holed np 
with us aiui we were in Buffalo' before aayooe 
lealized it was 2 A.M. It seems that Ciuugcyer and 
Bradley were reliving tbor war days in the Far 
East and it was the fint time they had sttn one 
another since accidentally meetiog in hgo-Figo or 
some such outlandish outpost in the V»d6c Theater. 
WINGERTER and ROGE BRESLIN rounded out 
the westward bull session. 
"JACK LAVELLE tried bard to make the trip 
but drctmistances wete agaimt him. Lavelle can't 
be missed in television when oflBciating' at Garden 
Track Meets! . . . and incidentally we don't see 
as much of him (!) since he took a wife unto him­
self and added a bambina. Ran into JIM CON­
MEY once in a while at dub meetings. Occasionally 
see VIC ZIMMERSfAN up near Kinderbrook Lake, 
N. Y. where we have a summer place. The C.S.C.'s have a small novitiate near the Lake and several times a week during the summer months a truck­load of novices ihive over to oar place for a swim —so we never lose the Notre Dame toodi. Od<By enough, it was a Notre Dame priest who rushed to administer the last rites to my father several yean ago—so we have a double soft spot for 'Little Notre Dame' as we affectionally call the Novitiate. 
"Despite recent appointments as stores manager for Pan American World Airways and vice chair­man of the System Standanfization Committee, I manage to be around New York enoi ^ to keep active on the alumni dub Board of Govenun^ and to help raise enough ilough eadi year to keep the annual scholarship award going. We've got two very fine young men out there light now. My wife keep* quite busy too—raising three 'sireu' who, God will­ing, will one day attend St. Mary's. 
"Getting ready for a trip to Miami on one of our famous "ComteDations" <by after tomorrow. Will probably be there a week or ten days and will make it a point to see GEORGE COVRY who, for a fee, is happy to hdp people who are too lazy to do their own washing. They tell me he owns most of the Bendix Laundermats in Miami. 
"Ran into my old room-mate BILL DUFFY several months ago while he was waiting for his train to Bni^eport where he puisucs bis l^al busi­ness. JOHN ANTUS shows up several times a year at dub affaiis .. . he doesn't play ptAer as mudl as in the old days . . . devotes himself to law. BUD CALLAGY is a very active member of the Board of Goiemora of the N. Y. Club. I see him almost every month . . . and since he served as a judge in New York City for a while we call him 'Judge' because he looks the part. 
"FR.\NK DUQUETTE was all set to go to the Reunion but G. E. required his services elsewhere and suddenly so be bad to cancel out. BILL KELLY is often at the monthly dub meetings and is another old reliable . . . ditto BERNIE GARBER. ED TIGHE ran the very successful Communion breakfast for us. Although I saw JOE KISSLING in Flushing several years ago where he is practicing law, I never see hhn at dub meetings . . . jack him up, win yub? See VIC FISCHER occasionally and quite often FRANK GALARDY, who is a very busy executive of an automatic tele|Aone system. Haven't seen or heard from CHARLES SHELAN­SKY since the 'Big Blow* at Westhampton Beach, 
L. I., several yean ^ o but they teU me he weathered it out <^y even though his house was moved off its foundation. 
"Would like to hear about DICK GREENE, JOE GERAGHTY, JIM HARTLEY and DICK HINCH­CLIFF. Without them I doubt if Fd be classed as a regular- alumnus!" 
MARTIN CALLAGY, New York City, attorney­in-chief of the Legal Aid Sodety, recently explained to representatives of the vrelfare agendes of the dty of New York, the services made available by the sodety. 
BOB GRAHAM has been aihnitted into the part­nership of Gardner, Carton and Douglas, attomeys­at-Iaw, Fint National Bank BIdg., Chicago. 
'28en will be happy to hear that JOE KIN­NEARY has been appointed the $nt assistaat 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

attome>* general of Ohio. His address now is: 
Columbus Athletic Qub, Columbus, O. 
"Advanced Management," a quarterly journal, in 

December, 1948, carried an aticle "What's Happen­
ing in Industrial Health?'* Avrittcn bv JOHN 
McMAHON. 
JIM SHOCKNESSY, Columbus, O. attorney-, con­siders politics his favorite sideline, according to a feature story on him in the "Columbus Dispatch" en Jan. 16. Jim is an adriscr to Governor Frank Lauscfac. 
1929 
James R. Nowcry, P.O. Box 1545, Shreveport, La. 
Class of 1929 
20-YEAR REUNION 
June 10, 11 and 12 

From DICK NOWERY: Just received a letter from mv old roommate of Sorin Hall da>-s, LORENZO LEO BRENNEL. He is with the >\-ar department on flood control work in the states of Ohio, West Virginia, Virginia, Ken­tucky', Tennessee and North Carolina. His address is. War Department, Corps of Engineers, Sur\'ey Section, Box 2127, Huntington 18, West Va. Re­ceived one also from JOHNNY LAW of Mount Saint Mar^-'s College, Emmitsburg, Md. He is coach there and sa\-s he sees ELDER, FRED iHLLER, FRANK McANANEY, GIL PENDERG.AST and RED LAUGHR.\N. Fred also informed me of JOHN COLRICK'S death of Februar\-. 1948. 
Peripatetic Patter: W.ALTER H. MULFLUR, is stcelmaking and is residing at Highland, Ind. P.AUL 
C. B.ARTHOLOMEW, is a "prof" of Political Sd­ence at Notre Dame. J.\MES P. KENNEDY is sales manager of Truimph Manufacturing Co., Chi­cago. Remember JOHN J. HARRINGTON? He is now "Father* and a C.S.C., and can be con­tacted at St. George's Church, Booibada P. O. Nanni Dt. M>-mensingle, East Pakistan—the address as he gives it—not the alphabet; and last but not least OLIVER (OLLIE) F. SCHELL is now a 
C.P.A. and resides at Tyrone, Pa. Don't forget the reunion—20th coming up. 
LOU REGAN is the merchandise superintendent for Sears, Roebuck and Cw". in Minneapolis. Lou lives at 512+ Aldrich .Ave.. S., Minneapolis, 19. 
FR.\NK ROTH is with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fcnncr and Beane (brokers) in St. Louis and is job placement chairman for the Notre Dame club there. 
TOM RYAN has been appointed warehouse mana­ger of the Georgia-Pacific Pl\-wood and Lumber Co. in the Midwest. His business address is 1805 Br>"n MawT Ave., Chicago. 
1930 
Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad St., PhUadelphia, Pa. 

Word comes from MORT GOODM.W in sunny California that he left Chicago last November and has joined Mid-City Investments, Inc. of California, 1150 South Beverly Drive, Los .Angeles, 35. His home address is 2415 Pilgrimage Trail, Holl^vood, 28. 
^L•^RSHALL KIZER is democratic county chair­man for Marshall County and an attorney in Ply­mouth, Ind. 
DICK SULLIV.\N', Notre Dame English prof., is one of the three judges in the Catholic Press .Asso­ciation short storj- contest offering prizes of $1,000, $500 and $250. 
193! 
Walter F. Philipp, 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Square, Pa. 

WALT DE BAENE is an accountant in Rochester, Mich., Y,ith his residence at 417 W. 5th St. PHIL KONOP is a poHcy consultant with the Bureau of Old Age and Sur\*ivors Insurance, Social 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Harold F. HaU 
HAROLD F . HALL, '25, in January became circulation manager of America, national Catholic weekly, and of The Catholic Mind, both published by the America Press, New York City. He ser\'es in addition as sales manager of The Catholic Book Club and The Catholic Children's Book Club, both conducted by the America Press. 
A student salesman for Pictorial Review while he was at Notre Dame, Mr. Hall con­tinued with this magazine after his gradua­tion and eventually became manager of all its branch offices. In 1935, he was named eastern sales manager for the Meredith Publishing Co., leaving in 1940 to form his own company, the American Readers Serv­ice, Inc. In 1945 he developed the college alumni subscription plan by means of which 65 colleges now solicit their alumni andyor alumnae for magazine and newspaper sub­scriptions. Kay W. Hall (Mrs. H. F.) runs this business from Lansdale, Pa., in the ab­sence of her husband. 
The Halls are the parents of five boys, Richard, 20, Douglas, 18, Geoffrey, 12, Harold, Jr., 10, and Drexel, 8. 
Security Administration, Baltimore, Md. Phil lives at 1002 Thomas Road, Glen Burnie, Md. 
FRANK LEAHY v-as believed to be the first person in the field of athletics to be made a Papal Knight by Pope Pius XII when he w ^ inducted into the American chapter of the Knights of Kfalta. Frank was the guest of President Truman at a dinner in Blair House on Feb. 9. (No connection between the two items). 
BROTHER NILUS, C.S.C, was elected vice-chairman of St. Joseph county's board of zoning appeals. 
1932 
James K. Collins, 17 Tnanglc Ave, Dayton 9, O. 
From JIM COLLINS: 
Flo McCarthy is now associated with the Schon­berg Printing Co. of Cleveland and is living at 1413 Wagar Ave., Lakewood. He has decided to make it his permanent home after considerable mov­ing around during the past few years. He writes that be sees HUGH BALL often. 
DR. MIKE CRAWFORD has been made vice-president of the staff of St. John's Hospital in Cleveland. JACK COLLINS, among other projects, is handling the legal problems for HUGH O'NEILL'S truck line, the Anchor Kfotor Freight Line. 
KEN "RED" McLEOD is living in Cleveland and is in charge of that territory for Evans Case Co. BILL VAN ROOY is still selling most of the coffee there and is alwa^-s a prominent iigure at all public functions. 
ROY CATIZONE is so busy practising medicine in Merrill, Mich., that he has taken on an assistant. He hopes now that he can get to see a few games next fall. He sees HAROLD TAPPAN occasionally, and would like to hear from JACK WERNER and MIKE CRAWFORD. 
BILL JONES is doing cost engineering in the photographic paper division of Eastman Koflak in his home town of Rochester. He has kept up all his other activities as well as being one of the lead­ing radio hams in that area, and is a state trooper on the New York state police program at WHA^1 once a week. He also docs some amateur play directing. These things, plus raising two rambunctious bo>-s, keep him bus>'. 
Bill further wrote that FRANK NORTON is selling industrial lubricants for Atlantic Refining Co., and has recently been presented with a daughter. DICK SULLIVAN is head of the accounting depart­ment of Distilbtion Products, a division of Eastman Kodak Co.: TOM BURNS is still teaching at Brockport High School, and FRANK .MORRISON is teaching business subjects at Aquinas Institute, JACK LANDRY'S alma mater; FRANK OBER­KOETTER recently w*as made manager of Eastman Kodak's professional color photo sales di\-ision. He has recently retiu^ed td work after a time in the hospital. 
JOE McKEAN is sales manager for Winch-Lift, Inc^, in Shreveport, La. He is married, has two daughters—Susan age 8 and Jane Ellen age 5—and says he has to drive all of 20 miles to the world's best hunting and fishing grounds. He further writes: 
"CHARLIE CROCKETT is at Alexandria, La., and was married around Christmas time. COL. C. 
D. JONES came through recently on his way to the Army Staff School at Maxwell Field, Ab. He had a tough break In his move from San Antonio as the van with all his household goods on it— everything but the clothes he and his wife and two little girls wore—turned over and burned com­pletely. 
"FRED CARMODY is at Vivian, La., with United Gas. His two brothers, ART and MIKE are here at Shreveport. VIC MARTZELL, '31, is in the pipe and oil field supply business here: he has been grand knight of the heat council and a real leader in church and civic work. JACK NOWERY has his oflice in the First National Bank building here and is an independent oil and gas producer and lease trader. DICK NOWERY, his older brother, operates the Nowery Corp., drilling contractors. Jack is active in the Knights of Coliun-. bus and a big family man—I picked him up at his house recently and it took him 25 minutes to kiss all his children goodbye. The Notre Dame band is to play here April 19, and VIC MARTZELL and the K. of C. are sponsoring an afternoon and eve­ning concert. We are all poinu'ng for the SMU game in Dallas, Dec. 3. If I can get some of my bragging TeKis friends to put their money where their mouth is on that game, I can clean their plow this fall." 
CLIFF FRODEHL writes from 29B Erna Court, MiUImume Gardens, Upper Darby, Pa., during the transit strike, and with scathing comments on same. He said that VINCE DONOGHUE has just received his third degree from Temple University Law School, having previously earned an MA from the 
U. of Penn. Commerce School. PAUL HOWE is still promoting for the Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce. BILL COONEY is in business with his brotheis in the plumbing supply business, and TOM MAGEE is still in the field of social work in that area. Cliff is the man in the purchasing depart­ment for United Engineers and Contractors. 
RAY DE COOK, city recreation director of Misha­waka, attended a four-day institute at Pokagon State Park, Angola, Ind. The institute is sponsored by the Indiana Municipal Parks and Recreation 

Volume 27, No. 2, March-April, 1949 
Association for the ad\anccincnt of park and recrea­tion knowledge. 
PHIL DUNLEAVY of Albuquerque, N. Mex. w-as appointed as one of the state attorney general's three assistants. In World War II he spent five years in the Advocate GcneraPs Department in the Army. 
FATHER JERRY WILSON, C.S.C., H ^ ordained in Washington on Feb. 7 and offered his first Afass in Pittsburgh on Feb. 8. Details in the next issue. 
The Day of Recollection at St. Mary's church in Lorain, O. had as its speaker FATHER PAUL HALLINAN. The lectures and discussions were centered on home and social life and the job ahead. Paul is chaplain of the New-man Clubs of Western Rescr^'e^ Fenn College and Case in Cleveland. He was an Army chaplain during the uar. 
BILL KIRBY, Waukegan, III., has been appointed as assistant attorney general for Lake and AfcHenry counties in Illinois. 
CLARENCE "BUD" LIEMANDT has been trans­ferred to Duluth, Minn, from Minneapolis by the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Co. 
1933 
Joseph A. McCabe, Rosary College, River Forest, 111. 

From JOE McCABE: Dear 33*s: Sorry to have missed signals last time out, but as Editor DOOLEY \nts kind enough to state, your pen pal was changing networks—a popular activity now­ada>-s, as any ashen-faced radio listener will tell you, between gritted teeth. All the mail you gents will be kind enough to send me can now be addressed to: Joe McCabe, Public Relations Counsel, Rosary College, River Forest, III. 
I have assured the postoffice here that there is no need to put on extra men to handle my conrespond­ence. See—you're keeping men out of a job! So write that letter TODAY—tell all things about all men (be glad to censor it for you) who ever went to Notre Dame, regardless of class, race or religion —^just so long as they have some. 
Perhaps it's the change of address, but I have 
startling news to report this month—I got a letter. 
Yep, a whole, honest-lo-gosh letter, in an envelope 
'n everything. Addressed to me, too. So I opened 
it: 
"Congratulations on your new post at Rosary 
College. It sounds great. (Adv.) 
"I'm an account e-xecutive with the D'Arcy Ad­
vertising Company here in Cleveland. Might add 
that I'm working with DENNY O'NEILL, '26, who 
is copy chief for the agenc>- (Ah-h-h there, Denny:) 
Together we give Notre Dame a majority representa­
tion. 
"Saw EDDIE KILEEN and GEORGE KOZAK 
in a big huddle the other day making last minute 
plans for Coach LEAHY'S speaking plans here. 
Also, attended the Notre Dame Christmas dance 
with ROGER BRENN.AN, '33. 
"Important, too, Joe, is the fact that I've got 
two future candidates for Notre Dame—two fine 
boys, Ror}' Michael and Jimmy. Musn't forget 
Catherine, either—eight months old and slated for 
the College across the road. [Fine. But if plans fall 
through, there are olhtr good colleges for women 
in the Midwest. .. . Ed. Note]—JIM BOURKE 
See, Jim—for overcoming this universal urge to 
not write, or unwrite McCabe, you get your whole 
letter printed. Thanks, honest. 
Talked to JIM DANEHY of Riverside, 111., the 
other day—sounds fine and happy. A mutual friend 
tells me EDDIE MORIARTY is doing well on the 
West Coast—hope he didn't put his money on 
oranges this year. Saw Cap'n TOM CONLEY of the 
'30 National Champs and couldn't spot an e-xtra 
pound on him. Tom is doing very well in, I think, 
the trucking business on the north longitude of 
Chicago. All I ask is a little latitude, lads, if I spell 
your name wTong and get you in the wrong business. 
Also saw Judge ROG KILEY and JEROME 
CROWLEY, father of PAT and JERRY. JOHN 
O'SHAUGHNESSY and DICK L.AMBERT share 
torts and briefs in Chicago's Loop, while JIM 
O'SHAUGHNESSY gains in professorial stature, but 
somehow keeps his youth, at Loyola Law School. 
It happens that I'm %>Titing, or mangling, this copy on the Feast of Our Lady of Lourdes. I trust She—and you, good reader (make that great reader —a guy with my Hooperrating can't be stingy) will 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Blackstone Studios, Inc. 
RAYMOND DISCO 
As director of the Resettlement Program of War Relief Services, National Catholic Welfare Conference, and secretary of the National Catholic Resettlement Council, Raymond Disco, A.B. '31, M.A. '33, has a major responsibility in Catholic efforts to bring Displaced Persons to the United States. 
Mr. Disco became director of the Aid to Prisoners of War Project when it was estab­lished in 1943 by the War Relief Services, 
N.C.W.C. He established and directed this work in Europe, the Far East, Australia and North Africa. With the termination of the war, he assumed responsibility for the Disabled Persons Program. 
Before 1943, Mr. Disco worked with the Catholic Charities of Buffalo, N. Y., Xavier University, New Orleans, the Department of Welfare, New York Cit>-, and the Court of General Sessions, New York City. His office is now at 350 Fifth Ave., New York-City, and he resides in nearby Forest Hilk. 
forgive me if I inject a personal note. Just want to say that I'm overjoyed to be back in Chirago, and associated again with a school dedicated to Our Lady. Kodak is a fine firm—I undeRtand their stock jumped 20 points when the word got out I was leading. But for a long time I've wanted to do something \vith a litllt spiritual angle, at least. The Dominican Sisters who run Rosary are tremen­dous—this is not a plug, it's the truth . . .a n understatement, in fact. So I'd deeply appieaate any suggestions or advice any of you can give me on matters rele%-ant to Catholic women's schools . . . and if you haven't any place else in mmd, think about sending your daughters to Rosary, in old River Forest. Don't telegraph—write! 
IN MEMORIAM 
A well-Iovcd, well-remembered voice on the campus has been silenced. It used to ring out ova-the clatter of trays and dishes in the dining halls and kitchen—the loud bark of perhaps the fightingrat terrier Notre Dame ever had. And it concealed the 
39 
softest bite of all—in fact, Tom Owen had the bite put on him far more than the reverse. I wish I had the time and talent to write a eulogy to Tom. I can only say that he was second to Rock in making the AU-Americans jump—^and like it. And I feel that like Rock's his memory will never die. 1 saw him a few weeks before the end, and to the legion who nvore the -.white coat, I pass along this word—true to his creed. Tom looked Death in the eye—and spat In it. God rest yon, Tom. 
—JOE McCABE 
FRED BAER is the new dty attorney under Mayor GEORGE SCHOCK, '18, in South Bend. ED ECKERT is a contractor in plumbing and heating in Albany, N. Y. and lives in Loudonville, 
N. Y. at 312 LoudonnUe Road. Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge has signed ED McKEEVER as backfield coach. DR. DAVID GUY POWERS, author of "Live a New Life", is completing a series of lectures based on his latest book. He gave a recent lecture on "How to Sell an Idea" at the weekly luncheon meet­
ing of the South Bend Association of Commerce. A resident of Forest Hills, N. Y., he received his 
M.A. and Ed.D. from Columbia and taught at both Fordham and Queens College. 
JOE SHEEKETSKI has a new five-year contract as head football coach and athletic director of the Univenity of Nerada. 
1934 
Joseph R. Glennon, Jr., Commercial Solv­ents Corp., 17 E. 42nd St, New York City 
Class of 1934 15-YEAR REUNION June 10, 11 and 12 
From JOE GLENNON: Now that the dates for the 1W9 Alumni Reunion ha\-e been set (June 10, U, 12, the first weekend fallowing Coinmencement) we can begin planning for our own 13th reunion. BOB CAHILL has been selected for chairman; it is now up to us to assist him in any way we are able. More information will be coming forth to you regarding this event. 
Met BILL POWELL in White Plains the other 
day. Bill is with the FBI; m'ce to know that we 
ha\-e men like him guarding the welfare of our 
country. 
Heard from NED HAFNER who is the proud 
father of a son. 
Our class lost one of its most * beloved and re­
spected members on the death of JOHN ROCHE. 
He was a fine example of a true Catholic husband 
and father. Our sincerest sympathy to Mis. Roche. 
JOHN BUCKLEY is in the sales department of 
the Wealher-Tite Co., 4417 S. Wentworth An., 
Chicago. John lives at 446 N. Austin Blvd., Oak 
Park, Bl. 
JOHN CONLEY was appointed assistant to the 
president of McCormick and Co. in Baltimare, Md. 
With his wife, youi^ son and daughter, John makes 
his home at 4121 RoUnd Ave. He had been director 
of public relations for the firm. 
HUGH DEVORE signed a new three-year con­
tract as head football coach at St. Bonaventure 
College, Olean, N. Y. where he has been since 
1W6. 
DICK GILLEN was named assistant chief of 
police in South Bend. His family resides at 513 N. 
Arthur St., South Bend. 
ViUanoi-a College announced the appointment of 
JIM LEONARD as head football coach. For two 
)Vars Jim was an asparagus farmer in southern New 
Jersey. BERNIE WTTUCKI signed as assistant 
football coach at Tulsa University after serving last 
year as assistant coach of the Chicago Rockets. 
CHARLIE HECKELMANN, 78-16 73rd Place, 
Glendale, L. I., N. Y., is currently president of the 
Catholic Writers Guild of New York. On the Board 
of Governors of the Guild is JOHN NANOVIC, ^30. 
The Guild this year imdertook an Awards project 
"specially designed to encsors^e Catholic writers 
and to give recognition to %irriters who produce work 
of merit". On Jan 29 in New York City the Gnfld 
presented to Bob Consiifine the Catholic Writen 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 

Guild Golden Book Au-ard "for the outstanding book by a Catholic Htiter published in 1948." His book H-as "The Babe Ruth Story-" 
For the past sc\-cn )-cars Charlie has been assoda­ciatei' uith Standard Magazines, Inc. and ^%'ith popular Library', Inc., publishers of 25 cent reprint books, as editor. On the side he docs considerable writing, having had four sport books and one ad­\-cnture book published as well as four Western no\'cl5 and more than a hundred magazine stories. Three of his Western novels have been reprinted in 25-cent editions and two of them have each sold more than 300,000 copies. Two of his magazine novels, "Stranger from Santa Fe" and ''Frontier Feud**, were made into moxies by Monogram Pic­tures, starring Johnny Mack Bovvn. .A. new novel, "Guns of Arizona", will be published next Septem­ber by Doubleday. 
1935 
Franklyn C. Hochrciter, 1327 Pentwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Md. 

From HOCH: As we go to press this time we report on onlv one letter. WADE KELLEHER stirred GEORGE ' DE ­METRIO into action, but good! Maybe if we could get a few more letters like Wade's we would have a live column again—ever>'one would have a beef and want to reply to what someone else had said about him. So, here goes with George. 
"WADE KELLEHER is responsible for this letter. Just to keep the record straight, I might add that Wade*s actiWties in my restaurant have not been confined to a cup of coffee, but he has been stufhng down shrimp, steaks and lobsters ever since I opened the place. You may be sure that his father alwa>-s picked up the check! 
"Howe\-er, since this is my first letter since graduation, I will add what little news there is available. After the Na\-\-, I returned to the Palmer House in Chicago for six months and then went into business for m>-self here at The Hoosier Riwm in the Harrison Hotel. [Harrison Hotel is at South Wabash Ave. and Harrison St., near old St. Mary's Church and in the same area with the Stevens, Congress and Blackstone hotels.—.Adv.—Ed.] In spite of the change, I still get calls at all hours from Notre Dame men looking for a place to sleep in Chicago; however, the pleasure is all mine and I will be glad to continue helping all to find hotel rooms in the 'Windy City.' 
"NORB HART and wife were in for breakfast a short time ago. Request for rooms come in regularly from JERRY FOLEY of 'Shiriey Temple Club' fame. R.W KEATING, who is in Houston, makes an annual trip to Chicago and a game. JOHN KAVAN.AUGH, who also lives in E\-anston, dropped in for coffee the other afternoon. 
*'I went to Detroit a few months ago to become a Godfather for TOMMY THOMPSON'S fourth heir. I also saw R.\Y BRETT. From Ray's looks, I would judge his wife to be a good cook. Tommy is one of Detroit's leading barristers. 
*'JOHN BURKE, another famous lawyer, came in from Milwaukee to tr>-a case in a Federal Court. He popped in for a drink, so I guess he won the case. Heard from BOB BYRNES recendy. He is still with the F.B.L in Los Angeles. 
"E\-ery so often someone drops in from the fields of Vermont and gi\-cs me the low down on J.ACK CARBINE from Rutland. (Jack, how about a letter to Hoch in your old fighting 'Scholastic* style? Then challenge someone else to write some news so that each issue of the 'Alumnus' will have a letter from some *35er in a different part of the countrv*.) Never sec ART CONRAD in Chicago, but sat next to him and his charming wife at the Purdue came. Also \-isited briefly with ART QAREY and GENE O'BRIEN at the N. U. game. 
"Chicago was upset for three weeks when BILL 'RED' TOUMEY came out to open 'The Red Shoes' for J. Arthur Rank. For verification ask TOM LALON*DE, ART O'NEIL or DUKE ^VAL­TERS. Bill had us all over for press shoxring. Good show, too! 
"GEORGE MELINTCOVICH and family stayed o\'er last summer en route to the West. George has three bosses now and looks fine. 
"See JOHN MORLEY now and then. Had a long distance call from VINCE REISH^LAN not so long ago for some hotel rooms. However, I'm sure the hotels will soon be calling the customers, \'ince. 
"JOH N RY.\N and his wife forsake the Pump Room now and then for a good steak in The Hoosier Rfiom (Okay, Mr. Armstrong, send me an ad rate folder!) Also see ED SIMPSON in church every Sunday. Ed is a big wheel in the telephone oflice in Evanston. 

"Last, but not least, a regular Chicago visitor is TONY CROWLEY. If you need a nice, big oil storage tank, write Tony in Rockford, HI. where he has his own company and is doing very well. 
"That is all for now 'Hoch,' and I'm sorry that I haven't helped you sooner in your thankless job of tr>'tng to keep us all supplied with news of our old classmates. Wach for CARBI.NE'S letter and he will name the next correspondent." 
We can't begin to tell you how much we really enjoyed your letter, George. It had more news about more of our gang poured into its two pages than many a missive these many years. We hope that it does stir our "Rutland flash" into action. As you may recall, we tried the same thing by printing his press releases about a year and a half ago. But it got us nowhere. Come on Jack, let's break down! .And of course there are a lot more of you balding and pouching '35crs who were men­tioned in George's letter. We could draw blood from several directions! 
Your Scribe can barely wait for a trip to Chicago. None seems on the horizon—but that Hoosier Room deal sounds awful good. We got ourselves caught up on the class through George's letter. Had no idea "Red" TOUMEY was promoting for Rank, and we had forgot that BOB BYRNES was FBIing. 
JOE CONDON, '34 has just spent a short tour of duty with the F.B.I, in Baltimore but is mo\^ng on to Boston because of housing, the middle of February. 
Just a %vord about your Scribe seems in order, especially for the men who drop into the office on their way through Baltimore. On Feb. 16 we move from the Council of Social Agencies to the Housing .Authority of Baltimore City, as tenant relations spedalist. For the visiting firemen—the office will be at 709 East Eager St. The phone number is Vernon 4810. 
We are looking fon\-ard to an experience in public housing. The job will be a liaison spot in the Office of Management where we will be the buffer between the 14 housing projects, the .Authority and the health, welfare and recreation agencies of Balti­more. 
Let's get the letters in the mail! 
.After his graduation in 1935, FATHER W.ALTER 
J. DICK, O.C, returned to Ireland and thence went to Rome for theological studies. In 1944 Father was sent to the mission field in .Africa and has been there ever since. He operates in an area of about 15.000 square miles. 
TO M FL^'NN, president of the Notre Dame Club of Hawaii, had lunch on the campus Jan. 25. He had been in Washington, D. C. as a representative for the Hawaii attorney general's department in a case before the Supreme Court. Still the singer, Tom is also active in the Oratorio Society in Hono­lulu. 
Tlie State House in Boston is no strange place to Representative PETE G.AY, the new House mem­ber from Taunton, Mass. as Pete has been legisla­tive counsel for the .AM\'^ETS of World War 11. 
.At the South Bend Rotary Club luncheon on De c 
' 22 were TOM HICKEY and his six sons, THOMAS, JR., '35, LOUIS J., '37, DON, '38, GERRY, '41, JOHN, '44 and JOE, a junior at Notre Dame. 
RAY M.ARGRETT is in the finance business at 199 Main St., White Plains, N. Y. Ray lives at 25 University Place. Port Chester, N. J. 
GENE O'BRIEN was appointed to a four-year term on the zoning board of St. Joseph County in South Bend. 
FR.ANK SINNOTT is the editor of the Pkilco Service and major-domo of the correspondence de­partment for the Phiico company in Philadelphia. The Sinnott family live in a charming home on an acre of ground near Warrington, in famous Bucks County, Pa. 
1936 
Joseph F. Mansfield, NBC, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y. 
GEORGE GLEASON, 204 Lenox Ave., has joined the Albany office of the New England Mutual Life Insurance Co., Albanv, N. Y. 
FATHER JOHN McGEE has been made \'oca­tional director of the eastern vice prox-ince of the Coi^regation of Holy Cross and has joined the 
facuhy of Kill's College in Wilkes-Barre to teach 
Religion and Speech. He was a chaplain in the 
Canadian Army during the war. 
WAYNE MILLNER resigned as end coach for the 
Washington Redskins with whom he had been asso­
ciated since 1936 as player and coach. 
JOE SCHMIDT, formerly of the "New York 
Sun," has become president of Grcshoff Advertising 
i^ency. Inc., Bronx, N. Y, 
VERN TETRAULTS wife, art English war bride. 
of Springfield, Mass., was naturalized in a spedal 
scr\ice so she and her small daughter could join 
her husband in Cairo, Eg>-pt, where Vern is attadied 
to the iVmerican embass>'. The Tetraults were 
married in London in 1944 while Vern was a Na\-y 
lieutenant. 
1937 
Frank J. Reilly, 1651 Metropolitan Ave., New York City 62, N. Y. 
FRANK KOPCZAK has signed as head football 
coach at St. Rita High Scliool in Chicago. 
FATHER FRANK SAMPSON has just wxitten 
the book, "Paratrooper Padre" published by the 
Catholic University of America Press. Father Samp­
son has acted as a f:hap1ain in the Army since April, 
1942, with the exception of nine-months **tour" in 
diocesan duties in Des Moines, la. At the present 
he is stationed in Japan with the Occupation forces. 
1938 
Harold A. Williams, 4323 Marble Hall Rd., Baltimore, Md. 
From HAL WILLIAMS: Very very little to report this issue—a few Christmas cards and an anouncement. First the Christmas cards: The TEX HAGG.VRS ("Patty and Ed, Patty Jo and Eddie"), RICHARD 
J. BOWES (5525 Rockhill Road, Kansas City, 4, Mo.), Mary and JACK CLEARY, thev have one son, Jackie), the CHARLIE CALLAHAN'S, Doro­thea and HAL LANGTON and their boys, Anne and DON HICKEY, Ellen and CHARLES BRO­SIUS (4262 South 16th Street, Arlington, Va.), and Marcelle and ED BARTNETT. Ed pens this note on the back of the card, "No neu3 at all except that we are expecting our fint baby in February. . . . Haven't seen anyone from Notre Dame at all. All's the same with me—I'm still doing general assignment reporting with the New York Times." 
And now the announcement: "John K. Ruckel­shaus, Gerard R. Reilly, Charles Edward Rhetts and JOHN C. O'CONNOR announce the formauon of a partnenhip for the general practice of law in Indianapolis, Indiana under the name of Rnckel­shaus, Reilly, Rhetts & O'Connor with offices at 106 East Washington St., and in Washington, D. C. under the name of Reilly, Rhetts & Ruckelshaus with offices at 1435 K Street, Northwest." 
That's all there is, there isn't any more. 
If I were working on space rates I would have made a fortune the year after we graduated and would certainly starve to death this year. 
Let's have some mail, fellows. Certainly you are doing something that would interest your old friends. Write. 
Help! Help! 
JIM BLUNT has announced the opening of his office for the practice of medicine at Barristers Hall, 231 Main St., Brockton, 1, Mass. 
JOHN CLIFFORD is a buj-er for the Emporiiun, St. Paul, Minn. 
GEORGE ELMORE is an art director for an advertising agency at 400 N. Michigan Ave., Chi­cago. He lives at 1950 W. Hood Ave., Chicago. 
Word came from PAUL FORTINO that the high school football banquet in Grand Haven, Nfich. was a huge success due to the appearance of Coach JOHN DRUZE, EMIL SFFKO and LEON HART from the University. 
DR. ED KINDERiL\N, associate professor of chemistry at the Unii-ersity of Portland since 1941, resigned to accept a position as chemist with the General Electric Corporation at Richland, Wash. 
RAY &1EYER signed a five-year contract to re­main at DePaul University in Chicago as head 

basketball coach and athletic director. Ray went 
to DcPaul in 1942. 
Barbara Stanwyck was present at the simple cere­
mony when her nephew GENE VASLETT married 
Barbara Bacon in HoIl>-wood. "Aunt Stanny** was 
the second prettiest girl at the ceremony said Gene, 
accrording to L. Parsons. 
CHARLIE WELSH is a chemist \nth General 
Electric Co. in Schenectady, New York. His home 
address is 1150 Sumner Ave., Schenectady. Charlie 
is president of the local Notre Dame club. 
1939 

Vincent DeCoursey, 1917 Elizabeth, Kansas City 2, Kans. 
Class of 1939 
10-YEAR REUNION 
June 10, 11 and 12 

From VINCE DE COURSEY: About the only ne%vs that can be announced for this issue (since the cold weather seems to have paralj'zcd ever>'body*s writing finger) is that the great, stupendous, gigantic, colossal reunion of the Class of 1939 will take place at the University, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, June 10, 11, and 12. As will be explained elsewhere in this issue, the reunion will be held apart from the commencement activities which should give some of the bo>'s a little freer hand. 
HUGHIE BURNS, the redoubtable, renowned, resourceful trainer of the Notre Dame team. Is to be the ringmaster for the reunion. Any announce­ment that you are going to participate In the festivities should be addressed cither to Hughie or to mj-self. Hughie, of course, can be reached at the Athletic Department at Noire Dame and my ad­dress is, 1917 Elizabeth, Kansas City, Kans. Full details of registration have, as yet, not been worked out, but you will be notified In due course. 
Other than the reunion, not much In the way of news this month. About the only person seen was DICK ANTON in Chicago in early Januarj*. Of course, Dick Is still battling the personnel prob­lems of the Hotpoint Company. So I am going to sign off with the recommendation that you take pencil in hand and mark off the above dates as absolute must on your calendar for you. 
FRANK CONRAD reports a recent addition to his family. Frank has two bo>'S, Alichael, 8, and Robert, 6; and two girls, Mary Jayne, 2'/3, and Sarah Emelie, born Jan. 14. Frank is still con­nected with the athlotic department at VIncennes High School in Vincennes, Ind. 
JOHN LYNAUGH was selected bv LT. GOV. SHERWOOD DIXON, '20, of Illinois as his execu­tK-e assistant. John resides on Chatham Road, Springfield, 111. He had been with the ''Illinois State Journal" of Springfield. 
HARVEY FOSTER special agent for the F.B.I, in charge of the Northern Indiana district spoke to the Kiwanis club of South Bend. 
1940 

Robert G. Sanford 1103 E. Kensington Blvd, Shorewood, Wis. 
From BOB SANFORD: "Milwaukee was the central meeting grounds for the STACK brothers, D.AN and DICK. Dan and his wife were on their way back from a \'acatIon at Sun Valley and Dick was on his way back from New York. They gave a Notre Dame get-together party at the Schroeder Hotel. While we were there for only a short while, we saw a few men of *40 .. . or there abouts. DICK and DON 0*MELIA, '39, and FLOYD SULLIVAN, '40, arrived to­gether, Dick is a law>-er here in Mllwankee and Floyd Is in real estate. Don Is a district attorney in Rhinelander, Wis. He is also the president of the Wisconsin District Attorney's Association. EUGENE, '42, and Meg Schumaker arrived shortly before we had to Iea\-e that very enjoyable party. 
"CLIFFORD BUCKLEY, '41, and his family 
were killed Feb. 29 while driving to Harvard, III. to visit his wife's parents. A freight train hit them at an unmarked crossing. It was a great shock to all of tts as ClifT and Rosemary were so well liked and active here. Many of the Notre Dame alumni went down to Har\-ard, 111. to the funeral." 
LEO BEVER is now- in the grocery business with his father in Somerset, O. 
PAT BRENNAN, South Bend, Is one of the Democratic members of the House of Representa­tives in Indiana. 
NEIL GEARY has been appointed public relations director at Stonchill College in North Easton, Mass., a new C.S.C. institution. After leaving the Univer­sity where he was assistant director of public re­lations, Neil was publicity and public relations ad­viser to theatrical and business organizations in New York and Washington, D. C. 
BOB HOWARD is district supervisor of the voca­tional rehabilitation of the State Board of Education in Richmond, Va. 
A member of the faculty of St. Bonaventure College in Olean, N. Y., RUSS J.ANDOLI has been appointed head of the newly-establbhed department of journalism. 
DICK KACZ.\LAREK and BILL HOSINSKI. '42, had Christmas eve presents in the form of appointments as assistant city attorncj-s in South Bend. They will work under the direction of FRED BAER, '33. newly appointed city attorney. 
WILBER K.AM.M has been elected a director of the American Trust Co. in South Bend. He is associated with Kamm and Schellinger Co., Inc. in Mbhawaka, and resides at 706 Lincoln Way West, Mishawaka. 
W. D. MATHIS, JR., has been appointed vice president of the John T. Fisher Motor Co. in Alemphis, Tenn. 
BOB MAHONEY, until recently president of the local Bendix Union (8,000 members) and JOHN FARABAUGH, '37, personnel director of the 01I\-er Corp. in South Bend, spoke to a class In "Manage­ment-Labor Practices and Policies," at the Univer­sity—in Januar>'. 
Life-is-tough — department: BEN SHERID.\N suffered slight injuries In a traffic accident in Janu­ary and had all his clothes taken except those that he was wearing in a recent burglary in his home. Ben is head freshman football coach at Notre Dame. 
A Notre Dame ring, with the inscription "Edward to Marian '40" has been found and sent to the University. The owner can claim it by writing to Jem* Scchowski, Purchasing Department, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1941 
John W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 Darlington Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
From JOHN PATTERSON: Here is a transcript of a letter I got from TOM CURRIGAN a few da>-s ago. "Just another one of the far-flung Class of '41 checking In after quite a few years. "Took in the N.D.-NcbrasIa, N.D.-Northwestem and N.D.-U.S.C. games last fall. When my wife and self journeyed to South Bend for the North­western game, we had our usual annual reunion with my former roommate JACK SHAFR.ANSKY and BILL MORREY and RICK BELDEN. All irartics were accompanied by their respectl\*c wives. Ran into BILL McGANNON also. "CY TLUSTY, another one of our '41 boys, dropped In on the Mrs. and myself recently. Cy was attending the National Chinchilla Show here (Denver). He raises the fellows, operating and owning the Wisconsin Chinchilla Ranch at West Allis, Wis. "Just caught a glimpse of RAY PINELLI at the Los Angeles Biltmore Hotel while in LA for the us e battle. "Yours truly is still holding forth with the Systems Division of Remington-Rand, Inc." All I can add to Tom's info Is that CHARLIE DILLON has apparantly left the meat business in Butler. He is la law school at Georgetown. I see EDDIE McHUGH once in a while at our Notre Dame club luncheons and can report that he is doing right well at the P. J. McGraw Wool Co. here in Pittsburgh. 
BERNIE CHENAL is a copy writer for the Knox Reeves Advertising Agency, 1st National and 500 Line Buildiiig, Minneapolis, Mum. Bemie rcndes 
at 2409 First Ave., S., Minnrapolw. 
MIKE DOLAN Is a captain with the Anny 
stationed at the Anned Forces Information School, 
Carlisle Barracks, Ri. 
JOHN HANNON of Imfianapolts has been ap­
pointed deputy prosecutor assigned to the Probate 
Court. He is associated with the law firm of Lewu 
and Goett. 
AL LEE signed a year's contract as assistant foot­
ball and basketball coach at St. Benedict's coUcge, 
Atchison, Kans., where BOB WALSH, '42, is head 
coach. 
TONY ROMEO has joined the Merck and Co., 
Inc. of Rahway, N. J., as an industrial engineer. 
With his wife and two children he resides at 34 
Washington I^kway, Bayonne, N. J. 
JOHN RYAN of Indianapolis has joined the firm 
of Reese, Robb and Ryan in the recent formation 
of law offices in the Security Trust building, 130 
E. Washington St. He and his wife ll\'e at 519 E. 48th St.,'Indianapolis. 
1942 
William £. Scanlan, Pullman Tntst & Saving Bank, 400 E. 111th St, Chicago 28, HI. 
TOM MILLS is associated with the law firm of 
Garrigan, Kiethly and O'Neill in Belolt, Wis., and 
lives at 818 Portland A\e., Bcloit. 
JOHN GARCEAU is a sales engineer with the 
Eric Hello Co., 4532 W. Congress, Chicago, 24. 
BOB MADDOCK returned to South Bend, where 
he is selling trailers, following a season as assistant 
coach of the Chicago Rockets. 
FATHER ANTHONY LAUCK, C.S.C., wis in­
vited ^^In this year to participate in the Pennsyl­
vania Academy of Fine Arts exhibit in PhiladeliAia, 
where he had a limestone carvii^. He is studyii^ 
In New York City. 
FATHER HENRY MALONE, C.S.C., was 
honored in Wilkes-Bane, Pa., at a testimonial dinner 
by the King's College Radio Club before his de­
parture for Catholic University in Washii^ton. 
Father was director of the Radio Club. 
JOHN HALLECK, Bowling Green, O. attorney, 
accepted the chairmanship of the 1949 Red Cross 
Fund Campaign for the Wood County Chapter 
there. His home is at 540 W. Wooster St., Bowling 
Green. 
GEORGE SOBEK was named player-coach of the 
Hammond Buccaneers of the National Basketball 
league. 
JOHN LEWIS received his law degree from 
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn. John lives 
at 710 IVrkins A%e., Clarksville, Tenn. 
GERRY OROSZ is head coach and director of 
physical education at the ViUa Madonna Cidlege in 
Covington, Ky. 
A new member of the House of Representatives 
in ninois is JOHN P. MEYER from Danville. He 
joins State Senators NORM BARRY, '21, and ART 
BIDWILL, '26, as a Notre Dame delegation hand­
ling Illinois legislative business in Sprii^field. SHER­
WOOD DIXON, '20, is lieutenant governor. 
JIMMY FORD wrote from Honoluhi just' before Christmas that the "Jimmy Ford Four" was con­cluding an appearance in a restaurant there. Jim thoughtfully sent a cUpping about FRANK LEAHY'S stay in Ha%vaii just after the Southern California game. 
GEORGE CROWLEY, Bridgeport, Conn., re­ceived from the General Electric Co. a Ch^r'r^ A. CofBn Award for work of outstanding merit during the year 1948. George, a designii^ engineer in the automatic blanket and sunlamp division of the ap­pliance and merchandise department, was recognized for his "technical knowIe<^e, application, and hts ingenuity and ^gresive action in analyzing the com­plex problem of and developii^ a suitable electric circuit" for the control of automatic blankets. The award comprised a certificate, a gold lapel button and a cash honorarium of $350. 
1943 
John L. Wiggins, 6733 Windwaid St, Cincinnati 27, O. 
From JACK WIGGINS: 
The Christmas mail netted a few gnetins cardi with short messages Irom some of the dass, to wit: BUDD GANS wrote fnin Staten Island that he a 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

a threc-jTcar man in married circles and has a 
daughter of two. . . . FRANK EBNER, Grossc 
Point barrister, was still recovering from the South­
ern Cal score . . . while LEO LEWIS of St. Louis 
\*TOtc a note to BILL MIDDEXDORF which Bill 
has passed on: "The USC game was a thriller. Saw 
BOB MORRILL and DUD SMITH; Bob ii selling 
appliances and Dud is selling pepper grinders. Saw 
KAISER after the Indiana game in Bloomington." 
JIM MADIG.AN has hung the CPA shingle on 

the Rector Building in Litde Rock, Ark. His formal 
announcement stated that his specialty u'as income 
taxes. Jim has a son and his wife expects an addi­
tion to the family in Alarch. 
Some information about the Chicagoland men: ART KARTHEISER is reported working in his father's business. Art reports that "Q" STURM has begun his own business (.Accounting). H.-\RMON SPIX.-\, grad of DePaul Law, passed the bar and will soon enter practice in Chicago Heights. J.-\CK BARRY and ED HANR.-\H.AN passed the Illinois Bar at that same time. DON MILLER is rumored lawing for a bank in Los Angeles, 
SAM McQUAID, for over a year the Minne­apolis ofiice manager for E. R. Squibb and Sons, Company, has written to say that he had seen BILL EARLEY at a Twin City alumni club meet­ing. Bill explained football movies at the gathering; and, Sam says Bill looks **good for six on a trap play.*' A frequent visitor to Minneapolis at one time was BILL O'BRIEN, salesman for Seaforth. Shortly before Christmas Bill ^\-a5 transferred to a territory through New Jersey and Virginia. 
Locally, the "Cincinnati Post" reported a recent 
debate, the first of a weekly series on labor law 
sponsored by the Cincinnati Bar .Association, which 
saw JIM CLARK in action. 
Your reporter's ou-n proud postscript concerns the 
birth of daughter, Laura, on De c 19. 
GEORGE BARRETT is a lieutenant uith the U.S. 
jVrmy stationed in Munich, Germany. George's add­
ress is Co. B, 508th M.P. Su. Bn.', APO Xo. 407, 
c/o Postmaster, New York City, N. Y. 
JOHN FEARON is a salesman with the .American Telephone and Telegraph Co. in Indianapolis. 
Reburial ser\-ices for 1st Lt. ROBERT A. ''BO­BO" FISCHER of Milwaukee, were on Nov. 30. in Milwaukee. He was a Mustang fighter pilot with the 15lh air force and was killed in action in Italv Nor. 17, 1944. 
CAPT. JOHN RIORDAN, if.C.. is stationed in Tacoma, Wash, with the .Army and hopes to become a full-fledged ciWlian May 3 of this year. He hopes to do additional graduate work in medicine upon his discharge. John \\-as married last year. 
1944 
John A. Lynch, Box 231, Palo Alto, Calif. 
Class of 1944 
5-YEAR REUNION June 10, 11 and 12 

From JOHN LYNCH: As may be noted elsewhere in the magazine, the 1949 Alumni Reunion is set for the weekend of June 10, U and 12. This will be 1944'5 firet big one, the Five-Year Reunion, and we are hoping that all of you who are able uill get back to Notre Dame at that time. Unfortunately, response to this column on even the subject of reunion has been so slight as to make us wonder wll it be worth it. But now that the dates are set, we hope for an increased interest and an enthusiasm that will make the 1949 reunion one to remember. As ^Tt, we do not have a chairman in South Bend, although u-e have been advised by the Alumni Ofhce that this is practically a necessity*. Knouing what might be invoUxd, though not too much of a job certainly, u-e ha\-e hesitated to draft a local chairman. Howex-er, stranded In California as wc are, if there are no offers shortly, we will have to reach out and touch someone in South Bend for a helping hand. In the Alumni OfHce on campus, BILL DOOLEY has already offered to be a guiding light for our 
chairman, whoever he may be. This much we can 
count on. 

And we can count on EARL ENGLERT, who 
writes from Dayton. O., that his serxnces are a\'ail­
able. When our South Bend chairman is ready, 
then, we shall have th;m get in touch. Our other 
outlying aids, as noted here previously, arc HARRY 
LAVERY in Chicago, and BILL TALBOT in White 
Plains, N. Y. We are keeping them in mind, and 
we hope that you will too, and that you will plan 
to see them at the 1949 reunion. 
EARL ENGLERT has also sent along some class notes of interest: JOHN GULDAN and wife, re­siding in Buffalo, N. Y., became the parents of a giri in November. BERNIE BOWLING became the father of a girl shortly before Christmas. And TOM SHELLWORTH, here at Stanford last >-ear. is with Frigidaire in Dayton. 
We also have several other notes that will be 
passed on: 

BILL SAMUELS of Denver, last seen j-ears ago 
in Brownson Hall, is now with the New England 
Mutual Life Insurance Co., located in Colorado 
Springs. In a note received at Christmas, he stated 
that he was still a bachelor. 
JERRY STANTON (SKOFRONCK) and wife 
Pat became the parents of Robert Ward Stanton, 
Jan. 5, in Washington, D. C. Jerry is with Arthur 
Anderson and Co., certified public accounts. 
JOHN COWLEY has announced his engagement 
to Miss Elizabeth June Molinari of Burlingame, 
Calif. 

BROTHER ROXLAN WITOWSKI, C.S.C., one­time prefect in Carroll Hall, is now an instructor of Polbh and religion at Chicago*s Holy Trinity High School. Brother Roman received his Master of .Arts Degree from DePaul University in February, and, previously, in December, he was 'elected a member of the advisorj* council of the Polish-Amer­ican Historical Society, which held its annual con­vention at Holy Trinity, and at which he was host. 
BOB G.ALVIN, a director of Motorola, Inc., has been appointed executive vice-president of the com­pany. 
GRAHAM McGOWAN is pracu'dng bw in South 
Bend with his office at 201 Tower Bldg. 
Since his departure from the University of Port­land where he had been a member of the faculty, JOHN MERRY^LAN has joined the faculty of the law school at the University of Santa Clara in California, 
DICK MURPHY has been transferred from the Sears-Roebuck store in Springfield. 111. to the Mus­kegon, Midi., store, where he will continue to be assistant manager. 
.A new addition to the facultv at King's College, Wilkcs-Barre. Pa., is JAY YOUNG. Jay will re­ceive his Ph.D. in Chemistry from Notre Dame this summer. 
CARL J. SENGER, president of the Notre Dame club in Tulsa, Okla., writes that the police depart­ment in Tulsa is holding a recovered Notre Dame ring with the marking "1944 F.P.R.". The ou-ner can communicate with Carl at the Warren Petro­leum Corp., Tulsa 2. 
1945 
James W. Schacffer, 7516 N. Hoyne, Chicago, III. 
From JIM SCHAEFFER: Very unusual this month—two letters came to the 1945 mailbox of yours truly. Let's have more. First was from AL LESMEZ, who writes, *'Had to write to tell you the good news that on Christ­mas Eve I became engaged to Miss Betty Kirch­heimer, daughter of Afr. and Mrs. Arthur Kirch­hetmer of Flushing, N. Y. And I am glad to say that I am very happy that this next June will probably be the month for the wedding. Tentative plans for the hone^Tnoon include a \'isit to the cam­pus and then on to New Orleans. "I see Jim .Atkinson, *43 or '44, regularly. We are both completing courses in the evening for our Master's degree at New York University. He re-cei\'es his this February and I graduate in June. Presently, I am with Pan American Airwa>'s as the assistant operations engineer and happy with one of the most interesting jobs the aviation field has to offer. "Went dou-n to the Navy game and bumped into many of the old friends. Saw OLLIE HUNTER, 
ERNIE RAUSCHER, TON*Y CONFORTI, and 
many others.*'' 
JIM CLYNES is the other '45cr that brightened 
up the mailman's load this month. James writes on 
the stationery of Wise, Corlett & Canfield, New 
York counselors-at-law, where he is an associate 
complete with office and secretary. 
Jim has even been pbying golf in January—one under par 71, no less. States James, "I met George STUHR, M9, over the Christmas holida>-s and we intend to play a little golf this summer. BILL FITZHAUS, '48, JIM DONNELLEY. '45, and -yours truly (plus dates) toured the Westdiester night clubs a couple of weeks ago. Fitz became engaged to Ikfary Ellen McLaughlin over the holi­days. 
*'I went to the Notre Dame Communion Breakfast at the Commodore and saw BOB WALSH, BOB ROSSITER, HARRY WALTERS, JIM DONNEL­LEY, BILL FITZHAUS, REM TONER, and many others. H.ARRY WALTERS and I are going to make a Retreat with the Notre Dame dub next u-eekcnd." 
There's the contents of the mailbag this month. It craves filling-up, so give Uncle Sam his three cents and write, write, write. 
SALVATORE BERNARDI is a mathematics in­structor at New York University. 
FRANK LINEHAN, formerly of Oswego, N. Y., is the executive assistant to the state deputy of New York K. of C. Frank's address now is 307 Genesee St., Utica, N. Y. He had been executive secretary of the Oswego K. of C. 
BOB RIORDAN is still with the American Em­hassy in Wdlington, New Zealand, but writes that he will be back to the States in May or June after a trip to the Philippines and South East Asia. 
1946 
ALEX BISBEE has entered the religious life at the Trappist Monastery- of Our Lady of the Holy Ghost in Conyers, Ga., and is known as Frater Mary John. 
ART KERNEN is a junior research chemist at the DuPont Petroleum Laboratories, Deepwater Point. N. J. 
JACK STEWART %%-as called from Garden City, Kans., to active duty with the Marine Corps for a month. Jack says that: LEE SHIPP \mtes from Dallas that he is u-ith a law firm there; JIM LAR­RICK is "still M-ith the men of letters in cultured New Mexico." CHARLIE CLAUSS is back from Puerto Rico. Jack reports that he saw JACK TENGE in Kansas City at the Muehlebach. 
JOE ZIMMERMAN is associated with his father in jobbing Esso Standard Oil Co. products in Lake Charles, La. and surrounding farm territory. Joe is married andr' recently became the father of his first child, a daughter. 
1947 
Joseph D. Usina, 219 S. Scott St., South Bend, Ind. 
From J. D. USINA: We hear from BILL HOWE that he has moved to Milu-aukie, Ore., and is associated uith the First State Bank there. Milu-aukie is seven miles south of Portland. Bill also informs us that he became a father of a 7 lb., 5 oz. boy on Nov. 28— William J. Ho»-e, Jr. Congratulations, Bill. He also reports that CY KELLY is now in San Fran­cisco working with United States Steel in a sales capacity. A long letter showed up a few days ago post­marked Louisi-ille from HANK PAYNE. Hope he won't mind if we condense his story a bit: "^Ve moved down here from South Bend last September. I had an opportunity to come to work with the Logan tki., and so left the U. S. Rubber Co. The Logan Co. manufactures conveyors, builders iron, beds, etc. At present I am a draftsman in the con­iTyor engineering department. "I have talked to BOB VEENEMAN on the phone several times . . . have been down to the Notre Dame club meetings several times . . . ran 

Volume 27, No. 2. March-April, 1949 
into BUD WILLENBRINK and GEORGE PALM­ER. . . ." Thanks for all the news, Henry. 
JACK FREEMAN is now working for General 
Mills as a representative in the South Bend area. 
FRANK GILHOOLEY was recently accepted by the Army under the new draft and is (or was) stationed at Fort Knox, Ky. 
NEAL KELLEY was recently admitted to the state bar of Wisconsin after completing his law studies at the University of Wisconsin. Neal has opened his law oflice at 69 S. Main St., Fond du Lac, Wis. 
BOB KINNEY, South Bend, has been appointed 
the representative in St. Joseph, Elkhart and La 
Porte counties for Wyelh, Inc. (drugs) of Phila­
delphia. 
As basketball coach in the high school in Miami, Ariz., ERNIE KIVISTO is making a remarkable record. His team was undefeated in 12 straight conference games. One of his players was the highest individual scorer in Arizona. Ernie's wife recently gave birth to their second boy, Robert William. 
JACK MAYO is one of 16 major league "bonus" 
players who cannot be farmed out again this year. 
Last summer he hit .273 for Utica in the farm 
league He*s owned by the Philadelphia Phils. 
BOB WOODWARD is the author of "Distant 
Journey and Other Poems" just published by the 
Stor>- Book Press, Dallas, Texas. Bob is a member 
of the National Poetry Society of America and 
other literarj* groups. 
JIM CLEMENS, completed the Correctional Ad­ministration program at Notre Dame in Januarj- and received his AI.S. in Education. He is now work­ing with the executive division of parole. Center St., New York City and residing at 4300 Martha Ave. in the Bronx. He left the campus in June, 1948, and in Januar>- completed his six months intern­ship with the New York State Division of Parole. 
Many other alumni, especially of the late MO*s, are participating in the Correctional Administration pro­gram under PROF. HUGH O'BRIEN. In this number are the following: RAY PEETS and JOE DORAN of '47 and JIM MANSFIELD, JIM MAGUIRE, JAKE PARKER, JOHN LAMOTTE. BOB FFTZP.ATRICK. PAT HICKEY and GUN­NAR HALD. all of M8, as well as ED HUFF, MO, ERNIE TIMPANI, MI, HERB MELTON, M3, BERNIE WASILEWSKI, M2, and TOM TEAR­NEY, M2. Timpani, Hickey, Hald, Melton, Wasil­ewski and Tearney are law graduates. 
ENSIGN HAROLD HULING spent the holidays with his family in Chlllicothe, O. He was scheduled to return to Little Creek, Va., and take off for South American waters. 
1948 

Herman A. Zitt, Foundation Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 
From HERAfAN ZITT: In keeping with this Lenten season it would be apropos to offer up some special prayers and sacrifices for three more of our classmates who have died. 
On last Aug. 4, JOHN F. GUENTNER died in the Veteran's Hospital, Aspinwall, Pa. The funeral was held on Aug. 6 at St. Mary of Mercy Chiu-ch, Pituburgh. 
JOHN L. CAWLEY of Chisholm, Minn, died on Dec. 21 in St. Joseph's Hospital, Milwaukee, follow­ing a ten-day illness with an intestinal condition. John was attending the Marquette Law School when stricken. 
BOB SKOGLUND died on Jan. I in a Chicago hospital as a result of a kidney infection. Death was quick and uncTpected. Bob had just returned home for the Christmas holiday's follouing an opera­tion on his knee that had kept him inactive with the Green Bay Packers last season. 
Fi\-e of our classmates have now died. What could be a more appropriate memorial from their classmates than the dedication of one of the rooms of the new Science Building to their memory? Alumni Clubs, individuals and foundations have already decided on certain rooms as living memorials for various causes. 
Last year 677 or 50 per cent of the members of our class contributed $2,872.50 to the Notre Dame Foundation. This represents an average of $4.24 from each contributing member. If in 1949 VJe could average $5.00 from 1,300 of us we would have $6500 towards a room. An $8.00 average would result in a $10,000 room—$1.00 per month beginning in March, with no contribution in July or Decem­ber. 
Here arc just a few of the rooms that the class of '48 could dedicate if everybody cooperates: 
$5,577 will buy a Chemistry Balance or Instru­ment Room. 
$6,650 will buy a Chemistry Freshman Prepara­tion Room. 
$8,151 will buy a Chemistry Classroom. 
$8,873 will buy a Lecture Preparation Room. 
$9,633 will buy a Physical Chemistry Research 
Room. 

$9,653 will buy a Physics Polymer Laboratory. 
There are others, for more or less money, but what do you think of the idea of shooting for one of the above rooms in 1949? As evidenced by the 1949 returns so far any one of the above rooms is easily within reach. Through March 2, 61 members of the '48 class had contributed $514 for a $8.43 average. The following have already contributed in 1949 (names listed in the order that the contribu­tion was received): 
Nt. C. Santarossa, 'W . A. Weiler, 'J . A. O'Con­nor, C. S. Trotter, W. G. ^fahoney, J. P. Prender­gast, 'J. H. Amberg. 'L. E. Amberg, *J. M. DiCann, *W. H. Griffy, *E. J. Schleck, J. W. O'Brien, *L. J. Caruso, R. F. Ka>ser, 'T . B. Kil­duff, »R. W. Kramer, '.M. J. Craney, *P. J. Bracken, T. V. Greene, Vf. A. Kortan, W. J. O'Connor, *A. J. Pitra, 'J. P. Rotchford, 'R. F. Becker, J. L. Foy, 'W. B. Hoffman, •C. E. Kas­berg, *W. A. Nfeehan, 'L . Cyganek, 'J . B. O'Mal­ley, »S. L. Pavella, *T. L. Phillips, *V. H. Brinck, 
B. B. Johnson, *L. J. Costello, *G. J. Dowling, 
•W. E. MilU, 'A. S. Salvi, 'J. G. Madden, *J. R. iturphy, *H. A. Zitt, J. B. Stio, 'C. Dunn, *E. F. Mullen, 'W . G. Palmer, •T . G. Fry, *E. Duke, *L. A. Sampson, 'P . J. Shannon, *M. J. Deutsch, nV. O. Swearingen, *R. P. Cronin, *R. H. Keoughan, *R. H. Lvons, 'D. J. O'NeiU, •D. J. Stocking, 'P . V. Folchi, W. K. Horin, *B. T. Kocbel, *P. E. Lyons and W. A. SyK-ia. 
* Also contributed in 1948. 
Any gift secured through the efforts of any one of our class members from non-alumni will also be credited to the '48 Class Fund of the Science Build­ing, provided you for^vard it to me or notify me about it. Otherwise I have no way of knowing who was instrumental in securing the gift. 
I would certainly be glad to receive your com­ments and reactions to the preceding proposal. I'll keep you informed of the progress in this coliunn. 
GEORGE CONNOR, now with the Chicago Beats, has become associated with Thomas E. O'Neill Co., food products broker. He will con­tinue to play with the Bears. 
JOHN CAHILL is a student at the Marquett^ University Law School. Also pursuing his studies is JACK EV.ANS who is now studying in Paris. Hr was in architecture at Notre Dame and is following the same studies in France. 
TOM FERRITER has left for a three-year tour of duty in Cairo, Egypt, with the Socony Vacuum Oil Co. He will spedalize in marketing Socony products in the Near East. 
JOE DE MURO is now with Touche, Niven, Bailey and Smart public accountants, in Chicago. FRAN CURRAN is with the Rochester Royals ot the Basketball Association of America. 
JIM GREENE of St. John's, Newfoundland, has been awarded a Rhodes scholarship from Newfound­land. He will begin studies under the scholaiship ne.\t September at Oxford University in Enghnd after receiving his M.A. at Notre Dame. 
BILL O'CONNOR has been employed by the accounting department of the Stanolind Oil and Gas Co., Tulsa. Okla. 
In addition to JOHN PANELLI, recently gradu­ated, GEORGE RATTERMAN and BILL GOM­PERS have returned to pursue their studies in the Law School at Notre Dame. GEORGE STROH­MEYER and ZEKE O'CONNOR have also returned to complete their studies. These four were pro 
footbaU playen last bU. JOHN PERKO has come back to get some extia hours of study that will help him in his teaching career. John coached the high school team in his home town of Ely, Minn, last fan. 
BERNIE SHEERAN is attending Mexico Citr College, Mexico, for his master's degree. 
Football Banquof 
Rev. John H. Murphy, c.s.c., vice-presi­dent, Francis Wallace, president of the Aliunni Association, and Frank Leahy, head football coach, gave the chief addresses as the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley honored the 1948 football team at the 29th annual civic testimonial banquet in the Notre Dame Dining Hall on Jan. 20. John S. Lavelle, '28, New York City, was the toastmaster and Rev. Joseph D. Barry, c.s.c, club chaplain, asked the blessing. 
Forty squad members and three senior managers were presented by Backfield Coach Bemie Crinmiins and received mono­grams in one of the highlights of the eve­ning. Capt. Bill Fischer spoke for them. Aimounced at the same time was the elec­tion of Ends Jirii Martin and Leon Hart as co-captains of the 1949 team, the first co-captains in Notre Dame football since Red Edwards and Tom Hearden in 1926. 
Additional speakers included Forest Eva­shevski, backfield coach, Michigan State College, Dr. Eddie Anderson, Iowa coach, Warren Brown of the Chicago Herald-Amer­ican, Mayor George A. Schock, South Bend, Jim Costin, South Bend Tribune, Joe Bo-land, Station WSBT, South Bend, and Jer­ome J. Crowley, president of the local Notre Dame Club. 
R. Floyd Searer, general chairman, and John S. Moulder, vice-chairman, headed the efficient club conmiittees which once again made the banquet a sellout affair. The Notre Dame band, directed by H. Lee Hope, provided music during the meal. Daviil C. Ford, manager of the Dining Hall, handled the food arrangements. 
O'Donne/l Trophy 
The Rev. J. Hugh O'DonneJl Memorial Trophy, emblematic of the 1948 national football championship, was on Feb. 1 pre­sented to the University of Michigan in a ceremony at the annual mid-winter Quar­terback Club dinner sponsored in Detroit by the Detroit Times. Fifteen hundred were present. 
The new trophy, the gift of the Notre Dame Monogram Club, was presented to Michigan by the club's president, Fred Miller, Milwaukee. Coach Frank Leahy was another Notre Dame speaker. Also repre­senting Notre Dame and the Monogram Club at the function were Edward W. Krause, assistant athletic director, Herbert 
E. Jones, business manager of athletics, Charles M. Callahan, sports publicist. Prof. Stephen H. Ronay, secretary of the club, and Joseph M. Boland, immediate past president of the club. John Panelli, voted the most valuable player in the annual East-West game on Jan. 1, was a special guest of honor. 

^ The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1948 FOUNDATION TOTAL EXCEEDS $600,000 
During the calendar year 1948 the University of Notre Dame Foundation received gifts totaling $614,939.42. Of this amount $458,735.10 was received from the alumni, while $156,204.32 was donated by friends of Notre Dame. The 1948 amoimt exceeded the 1947 total by $63,136.42. 
The University was the recipient of a number of bequests in 1948— one for $112,000, one for $1,000, and another for $166.12. There was also one capital gift for $100,000. 
The University also became the known beneficiary of a number of insurance policies in 1948; one for $1,000, $5,000, $3,600, $2,500 (in case of accidental death, $5,000), and another for an undisclosed amount. These figures were not included in the 1948 Grand Total. Two of these policies were from alumni while the other three were from friends of the University. Mr. Thomas McKieman, Ft. Wayne City Chairman, was responsible for two of the non-alimmi policies, while Mr. Paul Hoefl3er, Providence City Chairman, was responsible for the other. 
The total amount received in 1947 and 1948 was $1,166,742.42. This compared to the total amountfor 1945 and 1946, of $812,729.00. In other words, during the existence of the Notre Dame Foimdation in 1947 and 1948, $354,013.42 more was received than during the previous t\vo years. During both periods, 3 gifts of $100,000 were received. 
The Master Table and the supporting charts will give the indi­vidual City Records for 1947 and 1948. Early returns in 1949 indicate success in our efforts to raise $1,400,000 for the new Science Building. 
MASTER TABLE 
Reflecting Gifts By Alumni and Friends for 1947-1948 in 225 Chairman Cities 
ALUMNI  .  FRIENDS  TOTAL  
State and City  Number  Number Giving  %of Number Giving  Per Capita  Number Giving  Amount  Number Giving  
ALABAMA BimunghamNon-Chair. Cities  4 6 6 10  50 100 50 30  6.00 55.00 32.00 40.00  S 3.00 9.17 10.67 13.33  s  100.00  2 6 3 4  6.00 55.00 32.00 140.00  
STATE TOTALS  10 16  5 9  50 56  38.00 95.00  7.60 10.56  100.00  5 10  38.00 195.00  
ARIZONA PhoenixTucsonNon-Chair-Cilies  18 30 9 21 2 8  14 19 3 21 2 4  77 63 55 100 100 50  331.00 710.00 120.00 462.00 30.00 85.00  14 20 5 21 2 4  331.00 715.00 120.00 462.00 30.00 85.00  
STATE TOTALS  29 59  21 44  70 75  481.00 1,257.00  5.00  21 45  481.00 1,262.00  
ARKANSAS Litlle RocitNon-Chair. Cities  9 10  16 16  5 3 12 7  55 30 75 44  88.00 35.00 267.00 140.00  5 3 12 7  88.00 35.00 267.00 140.00  
STATE TOTALS  25 26  17 10  68 38  355.00 175.00  17 10  355.00 I7S.0O  
CALIFORNIA Los AngelesSan FranciscoNon-Chair. Cities  450 376  108 146  90 99  157 228 57 81 43 60  34 60 52 33 48 61  2,109.00 6,585.80 1,682.00 1,151.00 742.00 3,916.50  13.43 28.89 29.50 14.21. 17.26' 65.28  9 25 3 5 2 1  23,607.00 4,021.00 120.00 131.00 260.00 10.00  166 253 60 86 45 61  25,716.00 10,606.80 1,802.00 1,232.00 1,002.00 3,92630  
STATE TOTALS  648 621  257 369  40 59  4,533.00 11,653.30  17.64 31.58  14 31  23,987.00 4,162.00  271 400  28,520.00 15,81530  
COLORADO Colorado SpringsDenverPuebloTrinidadNon-Chair. Cities  :  6 8  74 93 3 4 5 5  12 4  1 3 47 45 2 2 1 1 12 2  17 38 63 48 67 50 20 20 100 50  10.00 160.00 620.00 657.50 20.00 25.00 15.00 15.00 64.00 20.00  10.00 53.33 13.19 14.61 10.00 12.50 15.00 15.00 5.33 10.00  75.00 5.00 10.00  48 45 2 3 1 1 12 2  10.00 235.00 625.00 657.50 20.00 35.00 15.00 15.00 64.00 20.00  
STATE TOTALS  100 114  65 S3  65 47  729.00 877.50  11.22 16.56  5.00 85.00  66 59  734.00 962J0  
CONNECTICUT HartfordWaterburyNon-Chair. Cities  28 77  14 21  193 139  17 49 10 13 91 40  60 61 71 62 47 29  299.00 1,795.50 180.00 316.00 1,483.00 456.50  17.58 36.64 18.00 24.31 16.30 11.41  10.00 75.00 77.79  17 51 10 14 97 43  299.00 1,815J0 180.00 326.00 1,558.00 534.29  
STATE TOTALS  235 237  118 102  50 43  1,962.00 2,568.00  16.63 25.18  75.00 107.79  124 108  2,037.00 2,675.79  
DEU-WVARE WilmingtonNon-Chair. Cities  35 25  12 8  12 12 7 D  34 48 58 63  113.00 145.00 47.00 37.00  12 12 7 5  113.00 145.00 47.00 37.00  
STATE TOTALS  47 33  19 17  40 52  160.00 182.00  19 17  160.00 182.00  
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA Washington  168 222  102 102  61 46  3,405.00 2,841.25  33.38 , 27.86  102 105  3,405.00 2,876.25  
STATE TOTALS  168 222  102 102  61 46  3,403.00 2,841.25  33.38 27.86  35.00  102 105  3,405.00 2,876.25  
FLORIDA Ft. LauderdaleJacksonvilleLakelandMiamiPalm BeachNon-Chair. CitiesSTATE TOTALS  6 9  11 11 4 2  31 50 7 7  21 35  80 114  6 8 8 5 2 2 19 33 4 I 17 12 56 61  100 89 72 45 50 100 61 66 57 14 81 34 70 54  95.00 150.00 585.00 457.00 10.00 10.00 1,030.00 1,147.00 42.00 5.00 729.00 233.00 2,491.00 2.002.00  15 " 3 "i 2 21  1,000.00 10,100.00 .5.00 310.00 1,225.66 100.66 1.005.00 11,735.00  7 10 9 5 ? 2 19 48 4 4 17 J3 "si 82  1,095.00 10,250.00 590.00 457.00 10.00 10.00 i,03aoo 1,457.00 42.00 1,230.00 729.00 333.00 3,496.00 13,737.00  
Fiist line of city reflects 1947; second, 1948.  45  

The Notre Dcnne Alumnus 

ALUMNI  FRIENDS  
Stale and City  Number Gi\*ing  %of Number Giving  Per Capita  Number Giving  
GEORGIA AtlantaNon-Chair. Cities  11 13  10 n  54 15 50 45  90.00 215.00 35.00 29.00  15.00 107.50 7.00 5.80  
STATE TOTALS  21 24  11 7  52 29  125.00 244.00  11.36 34.86  
IDAHO BoiseIdaho FallsNon-Chair. Cities  "^ 9 5 7 3 5  3 1 3 3 • 3 3  42 11 60 71 100 60  510.00 3.00 25.00 53.00 25.00 18.00  170.00 3.00 8.33 10.60 8.33 6.00  
STATE TOTALS  15 21  9 9  60 43  560.00 74.00  62.22 8.22  
ILLINOIS ChicagoJolietMoJincPeoriaRockfordRock IslandSpringfieldSterlingNon-Chair. Cities  '.  1,378 1,554  41 35 9 11  62 93  23 76 8 11  53 63  12 14  287 354  929 737 24 24 •J 4 62 46 13 39 6 8 37 36 10 9 283 161  67 47 58 69 22 36 100 50 56 51 75 73 69 57 83 64 99 45  14,168.00 13,954.00 174.00 213.00 15.00 30.00 1,132.00 2,683.50 4,348.00 1,639.00 75.00 190.00 462.00 553.00 118.00 242.00 4,675.00 2,059.00  15.25 18.93 7.25 8.88 7.50 7.50 18.25 58.34 210.57 42.03 12.50 24.25 12.48 15.36 11.80 26.89 16.52 12.80  64 79  32,579.00 40,483.50 50.00 2,550.00 1,950.00 6,817.00 3,650.00 5.00 2,840.00 4,515.00  
STATE TOTALS  1,873 2,211  1,366 1,064  73 48  25,167.00 21,563J0  18.42 20.27  74 100  44,786.00 50,853.50  
INDIANA .\ndeisonBedfordEast ChicagoElkhartEvansvilleFort WavneGarj-HammondIndianapolisKokoraoLafayetteLaPorteLogansportMichigan CityMuncicNotre DamePlymouthRichmondSouth BendTexre HauteVinccnnesWhitingNon-Chair. Cides  16 14 7 7 9 12  22 25  28 31  107 li s  39 45  20 25  285 273  12 9  14 16  15 16  12  22 32  12 16  61 81 9 8  11 11  734 800  10 14 8 11  14 15  173 180  7 2 3 5 7 9 14 10 25 •>•> 94 90 22 21 17 15 195 181 9 8 11 9 8 5 7 5 16 18 12 9 50 34 7 5 5 9 600 425 6 9 7 9 9 10 91 80  43 14 43 71 77 75 63 40 89 71 87 76 56 47 85 60 68 66 75 89 78 56 53 31 58 42 72 56 JOO 56 81 42 77 63 45 82 82 53 60 64 87 82 64 67 53 44  75.00 30.00 20.00 75.00 1^6.00 367.00 130.00 325.00 482.00 620.40 2,286.00 7,752.00 202.00 445.00 299.00 324.00 3,812.00 4,400.60 205.00 507.00 427.00 720.00 65.00 34.00 75.00 85.00 181.00 341.00 103.00 65.00 2,887.00 306.00 70.00 79.00 150.00 550.00 21,600.00 26,736.75 200.00 280.00 68.00 125.00 160.00 210.00 1,036.00 953.25  10.71 15.00 6.66 15.00 23.71 40.78 9.28 32.50 19.28 28.20 24.32 86.13 9.18 21.19 17.58 21.60 19J4 24.31 22.79 63.38 35.70 80.00 8.12 6.80 10.71 17.00 11.31 19.00 8.58 7.22 41.77 9.00 10.00 15.80 30.00 61.11 36.00 62.91 33.33 31.11 9.71 13.89 17.77 21.00 11.39 11.92  1 4 2 ,5 1 '12 23 17 19 26 1 2 3  100.00 235.00 1,050.00 1,165.00 200.00 3,150.66 4.590.84 525.00 10.00 187.00 100.00 10.00 20.00 12,585.00 8,254.73 1,291.00 7,626.00 9,417.00 50.00 25.00 15.00 81.25  
STATE TOTALS  1,640 1,771  1,222 990  75 56  34,699.00 45,331.00  28.40 45179  43 101  24,796.00 26,376.82  
IOWA DavenportDcs MoinesDubuqueMuscatineNon-Chair. Cities  t  20 21  27 30  36 41 4 7  115 105  15 16 19 16 19 18 4 7 68 52  75 76 70 53 52 44 100 100 59 50  254.00 471.00 221.00 303.00 123.00 190.00 85.00 809.00 2,357.00 2,271.50  1,000.00 20.00 270.00 5.66  
STATE TOTAL  202 204  125 109  64 53  3,040.00 4,044.50  1,000.00 295.00  

TOTAL 
Number Giving 
7 2 3 5 8 13 16 15 26 .22 106 
113 22 23 17 17 
197 188 9 12 11 9 8 6 7 5 17 19 12 9 52 39 7 5 5 26 619 451 6 9 8 9 9 11 93 83 
1,265 1,091 
15 16 20 17 19 18 4 11 68 53 
126 115 
90.00 
215.00 35.00 29.00 
125.00 244.00 
510.00 
169.12 25.00 53.00 25.00 18.00 
560.00 240.12 
46,747.00 54,437.50 174.00 263.00 15.00 30.00 3,682.00 4,633.50 11,165.00 5,289.00 75.00 190.00 462.00 753.00 118.00 247.00 7,515.00 6,574.00 
69,953.00 72,417.00 
75.00 30.00 20.00 75.00 266.00 602.00 1,180.00 1,490.00 682.00 620.40 5,436.00 12,342.84 202.00 595.00 299.00 849.00 3,822.00 4,587.60 205.00 842.00 427.00 720.00 65.00 134.00 75.00 85.00 191.00 361.00 103.00 65.00 15,472.00 8,560.73 70.00 79.00 150.00 1,841.00 29,226.00 36,153.75 200.00 280.00 118.00 I25.0O 160.00 235.00 
1,051.00 1,034.50 
59,495.00 71,707.82 
254.00 471.00 1,221.00 323.00 123.00 190.00 85.00 1,079.00 2,357.00 2,276.50 
4.040.00 4,339J0 

First line of city reflects 1947; second, 1948. 
r. 
2 Cft> 
ss z ? if s; w s' 
S 2. 
5- 2" 
Ill 1=1Ig g R-s II mi
i • 
0 9 S s Q. 
c J 
en z

H i 
o 
o 
tr 
> 
U) W t>J M g
B
O\4k0D->'-<Ct Owl*-J*.>—[3N4fcOO^'-'»-0»(^0\OWWO»0»^MU>4kM*-»W'0-*fc*-*0004»4»-tn4kUi4hO*orooWtO|\)W —— (U^WO»^0 O0fc-|O\\3*-'<-*'-'t- OLn|Wi«tn-*Ow 0(»|*»4fcC\«<-* —COM OW*»0%0%eN 
sr 
it »^Q CO N -^ Ot •O *•*• • Hrthd> 

f 
> 
Ln Ul Ln t/l to Ul Ltl 0< I 4k^J 
^•-* r* M^> 

ui M"W"-J WUlOODUl O iSii, PpSooiffipL ?ps as SKo. U ^$ "£S3Kg Sg 
liiiiiiii i«ia 
Souiooo SSS8 88 §88: • b 88 888888 88 
• o 
>^l-tM Olfc. 
st^Sh 
S^^KSS i.c,g*.u,»;og_ gSKf.P'i-gfiP-pf.eiS-Hsjs-riiisis-g _ _
— *4fc K> 
im m: : i iiiiisi iiili 
OOOSOWO •-•00 
a? 
rjui I u)<-*oto*i­
^m ia t/1 O 11 i?? in S8 f3{s>Soo Uif^ O tn K 
g: 88: : 88 8^: 8: 8: 888: 8: 88 8: : : 88 88 SS^SS: 88 : 8: 8: 'S 
I 9t-KM> • I­
ss^iu. <»UM0DU«O^O\«O^UiMMi-*ut00M>-*MUf U U M4k^U) ^ ^ 0< ,- SS !:i^lSSu.u.t^l;i S: I ^^S£ic.ou.K> ' ^iSSKc^ 
Qo'toH*i-*Mao ut' k^k4 '4> M ui«o 
MuotS 
m
spl^ 
UISOUIM 
88SJ888 SSS^SSiS^: 8^8^8^8^88^SS^^^8^8S8: S^SS^ii^Sl^: ^^8 88 ^888 88 888: : 8 88 l^ 88 88SS8SS8 8888^^ 
The Notre Dome Alumnus 

ALUMNI • FRIENDS TOTAL 
%or  
Number  Number Giving  Number Gi\*ing  
... .  90  55  61  
83  39  47  
14  12  85  
17 11  5 11  30 100  
17  10  59  
12  9  75  
13  7  55  
17  15  88  
23  16  70  
42  28  66  
50  23  46  
15  It  73  
11  9  82  
46  31  67  
44  30  68  
153  112  73  
187  76  41  
761  491  64  
880  437  SO  
MINNESOTA  
1  1  100  
3  1  33  
•yt  7  32  
oi  7  32  
8  6  75  
10  5  50  
35  57  
75  37  50  
•5 .  2  100  
1  
... .  10  3  30  
10  3  30  
St. Paul  44  26  59  
58  21  36  
•) 2 48  2 1 43  100 50 90  
83  39  47  
125  63  
264  114  43  
MISSISSIPPI  
4  67  
6  1  17  
4 4  •>1  SO 25  
14  3  36  
12  4  33  
24  11  46  
22  6  27  •  
MISSOURI  
4  4  100  
D  •J  40  
93  64  69  
117  60  51  
7  o  29  
3  J  60  
... .  178  131  73  
235  155  66  
4  3  75  
4  3  75  
57  55  
33  17  52  
390  .  261  67  
399  240  60  
MONTAN.\  
... .  18  8  44  
12  4  33  
23  17  74  
39  IS  40  
41  25  61  
51  19  37  
NEBRASKA  
3  I  33  
3  1  33  
18  6  33  
25  11  44  
1  1  100  
1  1  100  
28  12  43  
29  12  41  
... .  50  20  40  
58  25  43  
NEVADA  
2  50  
6  1  17  
1  1  100  
1  1  100  
3  60  
7  2  29  
NEW HAMPSHIRE  
4  3  75  
2  •J  100  
3  75  
4  2  SO  

First line of city reflects 1947; second, 1948. 
Amount 
877.00 1,359.00 165.00 66.00 426.00 38S.00 100.00 87.50 410.00 547.00 252.00 351.00 69.00 120.00 376.00 395.00 
1,465.00 984.50 
38,13Z00 10,132.75 
50.00 75.00 70.00 76.00 65.00 75.00 318.00 425.00 30.00 
47.00 30.00 101,644.00 100,497.00 35.00 50.00 449.00 406.00 
102,708.00 101,634.00 
70.00 50.00 10.00 5.00 52.00 92.00 
132.00 147.00 
30.00 
15.00 1,724.00 2,095.00 
15.00 
30.00 6,727.00 5,757.00 
40.00 125.00 762.00 188.S0 
9,298.00 8,210.50 
95.00 580.00 140.00 151.00 
235.00 731.00 
10.00 25.00 65.00 171.00 10.00 2S.00 128.00 249.00 
213.00 470.00 
123.00 20.00 25.00 25.00 
148.00 45.00 
18.00 7.00 62.00 75.00 
Per Capita 
15.94 34.85 13.75 13.20 38.72 38.50 11.11 12.50 27.33 34.19 
9.00 15.26 
6.27 13.33 12.12 13.17 13.08 12.95 
77.66 23.19 
50.00 75.00 10.00 10.67 10.83 15.00 9.08 fl.49 15.00 

15.66 10.00 3,980.00 4,785.57 17.50 50.00 10.44 10.41 
821.66 891.53 

17.50 50.00 5.00 • 5.00 10.40 23.00 
12.00 24.50 
7.50 
7.50 26.93 34.92 
7.50 10.00 51.31 37.14 13.33 41.67 13.37 11.09 
35.62 34.21 
11.87 145.00 8.24 10.06 
9.40 38.47 
10.00 25.00 10.83 15.55 10.00 25.00 10.67 20.75 
10.65 18.80 
61.50 20.00 25.00 25.00 
49.33 22.50 
6.00 

• 3.50 20.66 37.50 
Number Giving 
I 
1 
1 3 4 5 
"'i 
6 12 
17 
48 
i 
i 
I 
1 
... 
1 
4 
1 
4 
5 
6 
1 
5 12 
"i 
"A 
2 
11 
1 
2 12 
... ... 
2 13 
Amount 
50.00 25.00 
10.66 
120.00 615.00 540.00 
10.66 
25,156.00 5,750.00 
34,574.00 13,183.00 
5.66 
100.66 200.00 
10.00 
50.66 
100.00 265.00 
10.00 
135.00 
1,585.00 1,550.00 
10.00 
1,585.00 1,705.00 
220.66 
220.66 
60.00 245.00 
10.00 
60.00 255.00 
55.00 263.00 
Number GiWng 
56 
40 
5 11 10 9 7 
16 19 32 28 
11 
9 31 31 
118 88 
508 
485 
1 7 7 6 6 35 37 
3 1 3 3 26 22 
T 
43 
40 
126 
118 
4 I 2 1 
5 
4 
11 6 
4 
3 64 64 2 3 136 161 3 3 57 18 
266 
252 
8 4 17 19 
25 
23 
1 1 8 22 1 1 12 13 
22 
37 
2 1 1 1 
3 
2 
3 4 3 15 
Amount 
927.00 1,384.00 
66.00 426.00 
100.00 87.50 420.00 
867.00 
69.00 120.00 376.00 405.00 26,621.00 6,734.50 
72,706.00 23,315.75 
75 00 70.00 76.00 
65.00 80.00 318.00 425.00 130.00 200.00 47.00 30.00 101,644.00 100,507.00 35.00 50.00 449.00 456.00 
102,808.00 101,899.00 
70.00 50.00 10.00 5.00 52.00 92.00 
132.00 147.00 
30.00 
25.00 1,724.00 2,230.00 
15.00 
30.00 8,312.00 7,307.00 
40.00 125.00 762.00 198.50 
10,883.00 9,915.50 
95.00 580.00 140.00 371.00 
235.00 951.00 
10.00 
25.00 125.00 416.00 
10.00 
25.00 128.00 259.00 
273.00 725.00 
123.00 20.00 
25.00 
45.00 
18.00 62.00 62.00 338.00 

5< 'A 
? G H g= 
? 2 
I 
•flO n •§:: *^ pi 
1 
I IB 
I 
D 
o o Sg 
r 
8 
K 
> 
MM ^ g » I'd U) (tJ r-* 1-4 4*1 41, SS I 55,0,0 i'SSlslKEoo^giiSsSi ,00*^UlU>04kOD^«->hjUtOsOOo6JM°^»^ODO^CO^ OOUl I M-U 
I 
U' O i •*• O — — >JMOO-Kui*-JO\-*'J^O\JkUicv'-*4<>WUlOa>4>(. WUJ I ^M^^ SS I o,c:;35»ai52§saKg5=co. 

11 
t-l 
G
Ifc > 

g| ^S^8SgS8Ssb;3SS8Sb;SS88§S8SS83S8SS8Sb!S Si m sggiiiigiiiiiisii 
MI^MM MM 
8:i ??'!^?s-?SM5:g£i:N2!i:?:'," Sff'Kru.r o\roQo-^ouoaoooQi^i>)vo uiood^oooodo-0 
^^^^^Biiiiir^ Bm 
lOUl* • •->• i-> M Oi (.n M •-'M • 
8^ 
i:l:J:il i 
88 : ; : : 88: : ; : : : 88 : 88: 88 88: : : : : : S: 888: 88 88: : : 8888888' 8: 8: 8: 8: 
hUl MM 
WLn I ^Uii->>-'^U)MN'-*>-*<-'(^ C\<-> I ^ON M WW I -^^OvOs :n5»StSXSSliiggS5» 
II 
JOO\M„M, ** h |0;^ MOVttj1OWC>C0U0Nfs)0DQt»'UiMQ 
 00M S>M (-tw rooo . _ \O0S<3UiSS|Otn>->5M> WN*O<^M<^OOU^MCOtoOQ<ESM^0\M»aM go O
'If It Kui-> 
^888888^8888 S8 S888 SI8 gSSS88^S8Sb;b8888t^^8888888888S|^^^8b;8 ^8 8888 ^8 88^8888^8S8S8^888 88 88 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ALUMNI  FRIENDS  TOTAL  
State and City  Numbcr  Number Giving  Number Gmng  Amount  Per Capita  Number Giving  Number Giving  
AshtabulaCantonCincinnatiClevelandColumbusDaytonElyriaHamiltonLorainMarionNewarkPortsmouthSanduskySpringfieldTiffinToledoWarrenYoungstownZanesvilleNon-Chair. Cities  8 9  38 39  94 107  279 285  50 62  47 57  11 10  14 18  10 14 6 4 6 5 7 9  32 32  15 12  14 14  105 108  12 n  37 42 7 9  100 199  4 1 27 22 63 66 219 141 38 41 35 31 6 3 10 14 8 7 4 3 4 3 3 4 22 24 9 8 8 9 71 57 6 5 31 27 4 3 35 94  50 11 71 56 67 62 73 49 76 66 74 54 54 30 71 78 80 50 67 75 67 60 42 44 68 75 60 67 57 64 68 53 50 45 83 64 57 33 35 47  26.00 5.00 1,272.00 345.00 3,108.20 3,312.00 17,840.00 6,359.50 491.00 1,382.00 394.00 662.00 130.00 150.00 120.00 155.00 85.00 345.00 27.00 30.00 18.00 35.00 50.00 9i.00 384.00 469.50 85.00 160.00 281.00 188.00 11,609.33 1,104.00 70.00 440.00 447.00 622.00 30.00 16.00 2,117.47 1,188.25  6.50 5.00 47.11 15.68 49.34 50.18 81.72 45.10 12.92 33.71 11.26 21.35 21.66 50.00 12.00 11.07 10.62 48.43 6.75 10.00 4.50 11.67 16.66 23.75 17.45 . 19.56 9.44 20.00 35.12 20.89 163.51 19.37 11.66 88.00 14.41 23.04 7.50 5.33 60.50 12.71  100.00 200.66 3,105.00 3,111.00 2,175.00 35.66 5.66 20.00 10.66 25.00 5.00 5.00 7,000.00 100.00 15.00 600.00 1,900.66 5.00 52.00  4 1 28 22 64 69 225 147 38 44 35 32 6 3 10 16 4 3 4 3 3 5 23 25 9 8 10 9 72 58 6 8 31 30 4 3 36 97  26.00 5.00 1,372.00 345.00 3,308.20 6,417.00 20,951.00 8,534.50 491.00 1,417.00 394.00 667.00 130.00 150.00 120.00 175.00 85.00 355.00 27.00 30.00 18.00 35.00 50.00 120.00 389.00 474.50 85.00 160.00 7,281.00 188.00 11,709.33 1,119.00 70.00 1,040.00 447.00 2,522.00 30.00 16.00 2,122.47 1,240.25  
STATE TOTAL  966 1,117  659 608  68 54  39,356.00 17,831.75  60.00 29.26  1528  10,556.00  7,947.00  674 636  49,912.00 25,778.75  
OKLAHOMA Oklahoma CityTulsaNon-Chair. Cities  14 17  48 49  13 21  7 9 32 26 13 12  50 53 66 53 100 57  310.00 120.00 1,282.00 5,498.60 175.00 210.00  44.28 13.33 40.06 211.48 13.46 17.50  1 100.00 200.00  2,600.00  10 32 29 13 12  • 410.00 320.00 1,282.00 8,098.60 175.00 210.00  
STATE TOTALS  75 87  52 47  69 54  1,767.00 5,828.60  34.00 124.01  4 100.00  2,800.00  53 51  1,867.00 8,628.60  
OREGON PortlandNon-Chair. Cities  53 52  16 21  20 30 7 12  37 58 44 57  1,272.00 1,584.00 130.00 385.00  63.60 52.80 18.57 32.08  1241 10.00 . 495.00 50.00  180.00  21 42 16  1,282.00 2,079.00 180.00 565.00  
STATE TOTALS  69 73  27 4;  39 58  1,402.00 1,969.00  52.00 46.88  !16  .  60.00  675.00  29 58  1,462.00 2 644.00  
PENNSYLVANIA AllentownErieHairisburg.JohostOH-nMonessenPhUadelphiaPittsburghSciantonWilkes-BarreWilliamsportNon-Chair. CitiesSTATE TOTALS  10 10  37 47  30 40  27  23 24  122 142  116 144  78 36  35 38  10 13  346 254  835 776  33 30 20 30 17 14 15 7 77 86 77 92 24 23 11 10 4 8 114 106 400 411  80 50 89 64 67 75 63 50 65 29 63 61 66 64 30 64 31 26 40 62 33 42 48 53  98.00 76.50 246.00 • 280.00 234.00 336.00 185.00 212.00 220.00 295.00 842.00 2,017.50 1.398.00 3;i24.51 237.00 340.00 118.00 124.00 20.00 133.00 1,878.00 1,200.00 5,476.00 8,138.51  12.25 15.30 7.46 9.33 11.70 11.20 10.88 15.14 14.67 42.14 10.93 23.46 18.15 34.00 9.87 14.78 10.73 12.40 5.00 16.63 16.50 28.56 13.69 19.80  •'  I .. >3i < i!I ; 1 ()1 >6 > 69.00 10.00 10.00  285.00 3,623.00  60.00 132.00 100.00 10.00 46.00  110.00  501.00  3,954.00  16 33 30 21 31 17 14 15 7 83 124 79 97 25 25 II 10 4 8 119 114 415 476  98.00 145.50 246.00 280.00 244.00 346.00 185.00 212.00 220.00 295.00 1,127.00 5,640.50 1,458.00 3,256.51 337.00 350.00 118.00 124.00 20.00 133.00 1,924.00 1,310.00 5,977.00 12,092.51  
RHODE ISLAND NewportFawtncketPfDvidenccWoomocketNon-Chair. Cities  8 5 8 9  10 8 6 6  11 17  2 6 4 4 8 1 2 10 7  25 40 75 44 40 100 16 33 91 41  55.00 10.00 60.00 65.00 50.00 113.00 2.00 502.00 88.00 91.00  27.50 5.00 10.00 16.25 12.50 14.13 2.00 251.00 8.80 13.00  5.00 30.00  2 2 6 4 5 9 1 2 10 7  55.00 10.00 60.00 65.80 55.00 143.00 2.00 502.00 88.00 91.00  
STATE TOTALS  43 45  23 23  53 51  255.00 781.00  11.09 34.00  5.00 30.00  24 24  260.00 811.0.  

First line of city reflects 1947; second, 1948. 
State and City Number 
SOUTH CAROLINA Spartanburg 2 
3 Non-Chair. Cities 10 9 
STATE TOTAU 12 12 
SOUTH DAKOTA 
Aberdeen 2 1 Sioux Falls 8 8 Non-Chair. Cities 16 24 
STATE TOTALS 26 33 
TENNESSEE 
Chattanooga 5 4 Memphis 44 55 Nashville 12 16 Non-Chair. Cities 18 16 
STATE TOTALS 79 91 
TEXAS 
Beaumont 9 9 Dallas ' 60 59 El Paso 10 14 Ft. Worth 7 
9 

Houston 41 50 Port Arthur 5 6 San Antonio 14 12 Non-Chair. Cities 42 50 
STATE TOTALS 188 209 
UTAH 
Salt Lake City 6 6 Non-Chair. Cities 3 5 
STATE TOTALS 9 11 
VERMONT Burlington 6 
Rutland 9 9 Non-Chair. Cities 13 19 
STATE TOTALS 28 34 
VIRGINIA Lynchburg 4 
Richmond 14 17 Non-Chair. Cities 33 38 
STATE TOTALS 51 60 
WASHINGTON 
SeatUe 29 34 Tacoma ', 6 10 Non-Chair. Cities 26 43 
STATE TOTALS 61 87 
WEST VIRGINIA 
Charleston 25 28 Huntington 6 
Wheeling and Bellaiir:. 18 22 Non-Chair, Cities 44 47 
STATE TOTALS 93 
102 

Number Giving 
1 1 4 4 12 16 
17 21 
3 2 29 34 11 9 10 3 
53 48 
6 7 43 31 6 8 6 5 30 29 4 2 " 7 5 24 23 
126 110 
3 4 6 4 11 9 
20 17 
4 2 9 
9 . 18 20 
31 31 
13 

15 5 9 
19 20 
37 44 
19 15 3 1 

18 13 41 
81 51 
ALUMNI 
%of Number Giving 
100 67 30 22 
42 
33 
50 
too 
50 50 75 67 
65 
64 
60 50 65 62 91 56 55 19 
69 
53 
67 78 71 53 60 57 85 56 73 58 80 33 50 42 57 46 
67 
53 
83 67 67 40 
78 
55 
50 67 67 44 
72 
50 
100 40 64 53 55 53 
61 
52 
44 44 83 90 73 47 
61 
51 
76 54 50 20 100 59 88 47 
87 
50 

15.00 25.00 35.00 28.00 
50.00 53.00 
10.00 10.00 70.00 116.00 131.00 303.00 
211.00 429.00 
37.00 20.00 878.00 1,169.00 177.00 129.20 168.00 25.00 
1,260.00 1,343.20 
400.00 545.00 664.00 1,620.00 98.00 268.00 90.00 75.00 508.00 665.00 80.00 50.00 37.00 60.00 321.00 421.20 
2,198.00 3,704.20 
131.00 
121.00 15.00 35.00 
146.00 
156.00 • 
55.00 53.00 85.00 135.00 161.00 155.00 
301.00 343.00 
25.00 47J0 46.00 82.00 177.00 1,144.50 
248.00 1,274.00 
286.00 460.00 1,160.00 1,692.00 430.00 336.00 
1,876.00 2,488.00 
624.00 
691.00 30.00 10.00 
192:00 166.00 381.00 180.00 
1,227.00 1,047.00 
Per Capita 
7.50 12.50 11.67 14.00 
10.00 13.25 
10.00 10.00 17.50 29.00 10.92 19.00 
12.41 20.43 
12.33 10.00 30.27 34.38 16.09 14.37 16.80 8J3 
23.77 28.00 
66.67 77.86 15.44 52.26 16.33 33.50 15.00 15.00 16.93 22.93 20.00 25.00 5.29 12.00 13J8 18.31 
17.44 33.67 
26.20 30.25 7.50 18.50 
20.86 26.00 
18.33 13.25 14.16 33.75 14.64 17.22 
15.05 20.18 
6.25 23.75 5.11 9.11 9.83 57.23 
8.00 41.10 
22.00 30.67 232.00 188.00 22.63 16.80 
50.54 56.55 
32.84 46.07 10.00 10.00 10.60 12.77 92.93 81.82 
15.15 20.53 
FRIENDS 
Number Amount Giving 
50.00 
10.00 
1,020.00 
10.66 
1030.00 
8,070.00 9,560.00 
100.00 100.00 3.00 
8,173.00 ^ 9,660.00 
10.00 
100.00 
5,010.00 10.00 
5,015.00 10.00 
2,ooaoo 
1,610.00 
2.00 
2.00 
2,002.00 ' 1,612.00 
TOTAL 
Number Giving ' 15.00 75.00 35.00 28.00 
50.00 103.00 
1 10.00 1 
laoo 
4 
4 
70.00 12 
116.00 17 
131.00 313.00 
17 211.00 22 439.00 
3 37.00 2 20.00 29 878.00 36 2,189.00 11 177.00 10 139.20 10 168.00 3 25.00 
S3 1,260.00 51 2,373.20 
6 400.00 7 545.00 51 8,734.00 38 11,180.00 
6 
98.00 8 268.00 7 190.00 
6 
175.00 
31 
511.00 
29 
665.00 
4 
80.00 
2 
50.00 
7 
37.00 5 60.00 
24 
321.00 23 • 421.20 
136 .I=t10-,S71.00 118 13,364.20 
131.00 121.00 15.00 35.00 
146.00 156.00 
3 55.00 4 53.00 6 85.00 4 135.00 11 161.00 10 165.00 
20 301.00 18 353.00 
4 25.00 2 47JO 9 64.00 9 8Z00 18 177.00 21 1,244.50 
31 248.00 32 1,374 00 
15 5,296.00 16 470.00 5 1,160.00 9 1,692.00 
20 
435.00 
20 
336.00 
40 6,891.00 45' 2,498.00 
20 2,624.00 20 2,301.00 3 30.00 1 10.00 
18 
192.00 
13 
166.00 
42 
383.00 
23 
182.00 
83 3,229.00 57 2,659.00 

First line of city reflects 1947; second, 1948. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ALUMNI FRIENDS TOTAL 
.%of State and City Number Number Per Number Number Amount Giving Giving Capita Giving Giving 
WISCONSIN Eau ClaireFond du LacJancsvillcLaCrosscMadisonMarinetteMilw-auteeOshkoshRacineRhinclanderShcbovganNon-Chair. Cities  ,  7 7 6 5 7  23 23  21 20 6 10  152 196 8 8  22 18 4 3 9 9 133  163  5 3 5 18 17 16 7 4 6 101 86 4 2 12 15 1 1 7 1 75 66  86 29 83 100 43 71 82 74 76 35 66 60 66 44 50 25 54 83 25 33 78 11 56 40  53.00 6.00 48.00 60.00 17.00 37.00 1,299.00 1,434.50 124.00 84.75 110.00 385.00 6,535.00 1,833.50 53.00 18.00 4,079.00 7,725.00 10.00 5.00 66.00 3.00 781.00 802.25  8.83 3.00 9.60 12.00 5.67 5.40 72.16 84.38 7.75 12.11 27.50 64.17 64.73 21.32 13.25 9.00 33.99 515.00 10.00 5.00 9.43 3.00 10.41 12.16  4 15 "i 3 "i "3 15  5,800.00 5,265.00 7,667.00 610.00 5.66 25.66 2,852.25  5 5 3 5 18 17 16 8 4 6 105 101 4 2 15 18 1 2 7 1 78 81  53.00 6.00 48.00 60.00 17.00 37.00 1,299.00 1,434.50 124.00 94.75 110.00 385.00 12,335.00 7,098.50 53.00 18.00 11,746.00 8,335.00 10.00 10.00 66.00 3.00 806.00 3,654.50  
STATE TOTALS  398 469  252 213  63 46  13,175.00 12,394.00  52.28 58.19  10 35  13,492.00 8,742.25  262 248  26,667.00 21,136.25  
WYOMING Chcj'cnncNon-Cbair. Cities  4 5 9 13  75 80 44 23  20.00 105.00 90.00 17.00  6.67 26.25 22.50 5.67  21 "i  185.66 10.66  20.00 290.00 90.00 27.00  
STATE TOTALS  13 18  54 39  110.00 122.00  15.71 17.43  '22  195.66  7 29  110.00 317.00  
MEXICO Mexico Citv  14 14  29 7  120.00 10.00  30.00 10.00  120.00 10.00  
Honolulu, T. H  4 4  25 75  10.00 45.00  10.00 15.00  1 14  10.00 214.00  
TOTAL OF 225 CHAIRMANYear 1947Year 1948  CITIES  9,633  11,028  5,982 5,632  62 51  336,358.20 313,490.91  56.23 55.66  258 602  145,841.00 145,244.19  6,240 6,234  482,199.20 458,735.10  
TOTAL NON-CHAIRMANYear 1947Year 1948  CITIES  3,539  ....2,922  1,906 1,341  54 46  39,654.80 138,407.37  20.81 103.21  44 89  29,949.00 17,796.95  1,950 1,430  69,603.80 156,204.32  
GRAND TOTAL Year 1947Year 1948  11,000  13,950  7,888 6,973  72 50  376,013.00 451,898.28  47.67 64.81  302 691  175,790.00 163,041.14  8,190 7,664  551,803.00 614,939.42  

First line of city reflects 1947; second, 1948. 
1948 RECAPITULATION 1948 Gifts* Restricted and Unrestricted 
Alumni Gifts of 225 Cities 5313,490.91 ALUMNI FRIENDS TOTAL 
Friends Gifts of 225 Cities 145,244.19 Restricted $280,881.81 S 59,789.73 5340,671.54 
TOTAL 5458,735.10 Unrestricted 171,016.47 103,251.41 274,267.88 Alumni Non-Chauinan Cities 138,407.37 
Friends Non-Chairman Cities 17,796.95 
TOTALS $451,898.28 5163,041.14 5614,939.42 
TOTAL 156,204.32 
TOTAL ALUMNI 451,898.28 COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF 1948 GIFTS TOTAL FRIENDS 163,041.14 
Increases* Decreases* Xew* Same* Total 

TOTAL—ALUMNI AND FRIENDS 5614,939.42 
ALUMNI 1960 746 1889 2378 6973 
28% 11% 27% 34% 100% 

COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS—ALUMNI FRIENDS 29 37 542 83 691 AND FRIENDS' GIFTS 1941-1948 4% 5% 78% 13% 100% 
ALUMNI FRIENDS TOTALS 1989 783- 2431 2461 7664 
J^^vmbn Amount j\^umbeT Amount 26% 10% 32% 32% 100% 19411 -'' ^ 22,868.00 19421 3,462 S 107,424.00 58 • 144,276.00 •Increases—1948 gift was larger than the 1947 gift. 
I943J 126 70,010.00 
•Decreases—1948 gift was less than the 1947 gift. 
1944..'. 3,313 111,342.00 98 59,916.00 1945 3,096 94,345.00 84 186,783.00 •New—Gift that was received in 1948 was not received in 1947. 1946 5,885 276,989.00 262 254,612.00 
'Same—1948 and 1947 gift was the same. 
1947 7,888 376,013.00 302 175,790.00 
Of particular note in the above table is the fact that 55% of the gifts 
1948 6,973 451,898.28 691 163,041.14 
from alumni were new or increases. 78% of the friend's gift were new TOTALS 30,617 51,418,011.28 1,645 51,077,296.14 gifts that were not received in 1947. 
CITIES CONTRIBUTING $500 OR MORE IN 1948 
jVumber ' Number 0/ Percentage Jfumber Total Ami. City ef Alumni of Friends Alumni and Alumni Contributing Farlia'tiation Gifts Friends 
Akron 71 45 63 ... S 768.50 •Baltimore 46 22 48 2 663.00 •Beaumont 9 7 78 .. . 545.00 Benton Harbor 50 23 46 5 891.00 Buffalo 173 95 55 3 7,508.00 •Butte 12 4 33 .. . 580.00 Charleston 28 15 54 5 2,301.00 Chicago 1,554 737 47 79 54,437.50 Cincinnati 107 66 62 3 6,417.00 Cleveland 285 141 49 6 8,534.50 •Columbus 62 41 66 3 1,417.00 Dallas 59 31 53 7 11,180.00 •Dayton 57 31 54 1 667.00 Denver 93 45 48 .. . 657.50 Detroit 398 204 51 22 11,822.75 •East Chicago 12 9 75 4 602.00 Elizabeth 56 22 40 2 1,008.80 Elkhart 25 10 40 5 1,490.00 Evanjvillc 31 22 71 .. . 620.40 •Flint 26 15 58 4 698.00 Ft. Lauderdale 9 8 89 2 10,250.00 Ft. Wayne 118 90 76 23 12,342.84 •Gar>- 45 21 47 2 595.00 Grand Rapids 83 39 47 1 1,384.00 •Hammond 25 15 60 2 849.00 •Hartford 77 49 61 2 1,815.50 Houston 50 29 58 .. . 665.00 IndianapolU 273 181 66 7 4,587.60 •JeiseyCity 76 28 37 2 1,096.00 Kansas City 117 60 51 4 2,230.00 •Kokomo 9 8 89 4 842.00 LaCrosse 23 17 74 .. . 1,434.50 •Lafayette 16 9 56 .. . 720.00 Los Angeles 376 228 60 25 10,606.80 Louisville 106 62 58 6 2,580.00 Memphis 55 34 62 2 2,189.00 Miami 50 33 66 15 1,457.00 Milwaukee 196 86 44 15 7,098.50 •Muskegon 23 16 70 3 667.00 •Muscatine 7 7 100 4 1,079.00 Newark, N. J 204 91 45 6 2,878.50 New Orleans 30 18 60 7 2,475.00 New York 1,200 472 39 34 47,102.25 Notre Dame 81 34 42 5 8,560.73 •Palm Beach 7 1 14 3 1,230.00 Peoria 93 46 50 4 4,633.50 Philadelphia 142 86 61 38 3,640.50 •Phoenix 30 19 63 1 715.00 Pittsburgh 144 92 64 5 3,256.51 Portland 52 30 58 12 2,079.00 Racine 18 15 83 3 8,335.00 •Richmond, Ind 11 9 82 17 1,841.00 Rochester, N. Y 148 65 44 8 1,512.25 Rockford 76 39 51 4 5,289.00 St. Louis 235 155 66 6 7,307.00 St. Paul 58 21 36 1 100,507.00 San Francisco 146 81 55 5 1,282.00 South Bend 800 425 53 26 36,153.75 •Springfield, III 63 36 57 1 753.00 Tacoma 10 9 90 .. . 1,692.00 Toledo 108 57 53 I 1,119.00 Tulsa 49 26 S3 3 8,098.60 •Warren 11 5 45 3 1,040.00 Washington 222 102 46 3 2,876.25 •Woonsockct 6 2 33 .. . 502.00 •Youngstown 42 27 64 3 2,522.00 
TOTALS 8,874 4,568 31 469 5436,700.53 
•Were not in the S500 class in 1947. 
68% of the number of friend's gifts came from the above cities. 
71 % of the total amount contributed came from the above cities. 
In 1948 66 cities were in the S500 class—in 1947 only 48 were in the S500 class. 
46 out of the above 66 cities were above the average 50% alumni participation. 
64% of the alumni live in the above cities. 
1946-1948 TABLES ALUMNI AND FRIENDS 
ALUMNI 

1946 1947 1948 JVam-%of Jfam-%of JVion-%oJ Class ber Total ber Total ber Total 
Under SIO 2,547 43 3,882 49 2,867 41 S10-S20 1,840 31 2,255 29 2,374 34 S20-S25 520 9 633 -8 267 4 S25-S50 654 11 666 8 850 12 S50-S100 141 2 236 3 257 4 S100-S200 125 2 99 1 188 2.6 S200-S500 29 .75 70 1 110 1.5 S500-S1,000 17 .50 14 .33 27 .4 51,000 5 .25 16 .33 14 .2 SI.OOOup 7 .50 16 .33 19 .3 
TOTALS 5,885 100% 7,887 100% 6,973 100% 
FRIENDS 
39 19 345 50 . 14 7 79 n 52 26 68 10 
21 10 92 13 19 10 32 5 26 13 29 4 13 6 28 4 
9 4 8 1.2 5 2.5 4 .6 5 2.5 6 1.2 
203 100% 691 100% 

NOTE: In 1948 the 8% decrease in the number of alumni gifts under SIO resulted in a 5% increase in gifts in the next higher bracket, a 1% increase in the brackets up to $100, and a 2% increase in the brackets of SI00 and up. In the $200 and up bracket there were 54 more con­tributors than in 1947 and 112 more than in 1946. 
In the Friend's Table, there were more than tWice as many Friend's Gifts in 1948 as there were in 1947. 
The Notre Dcone Alumnus 

CITIES CONTRIBUTING 1% OR MORE OF CITIES WHERE 1% OR MORE 
THE 1948 TOTAL OF 5614,939.42  OF THE ALUMNI LIVE  
Percentage  No. oj  Percentage  No. of  Percentage  Percentage  
Citj  Amount  of Amount  Alumni  of Alumni  City  Alumni  of Alumni  Amount  of Amount  
St. Paul  $100,507.00  16.3%  58  -4%  Chicago  1,554  11.1%  S 54,437.50  8.9%  
Chicago  54,437.50  8.9  1,554  11.1  New York  1,200  8.6  47,102.25  7.7  
New York  47,102.25  1.1  1,200  8.6  South Bend  800  5.8  36,153.75  5.9  
South Bend  36,153.75  5.9  800  5.8  Detroit  398  2.9  11.822.75  1.9  
Ft. Wayne  12,342.84  2.1  118  .8  Los Angeles  376  2.7  10,606.80  1.7  
Detroit  11,822.75  1.9  398  2.9  Cleveland  285  2.0  8,534.50  1.4  
DaUas  11,180.00  1.8  59  .4  Indianapolis  273  2.0  4,587.60  .7  
Ft. Lauderdale  10,250.00  1.7  9  St. Louis  235  1.7  7,307.00  1.2  
Los Angeles  10,606.80  1.7  376  2.7  Washington  222  1.6  2,876.25  .5  
Cleveland  8,534.50  1.4  285  2.0  Newark, N.J  204  1.5  2,878.50  .5  
Notre Dame  8,560.73  1.4  81  .6  Milwaukee  196  1.4  7,098.50  1.2  
Racine  8,335.00  1.4  18  .1  Buffalo  173  1.2  7,508.00  1.2  
Tulsa  8,098.60  1.3  49  .4  Rochester, N. Y  148  1.0  1,512.25  .2  
Buffalo  7,508.00  1.2  173  1.2  San Francisco  146  1.0  1,282.00  .2  
MUwaukee  7,098.50  1.2  196  1.4  Pittsburgh  144  1.0  3,256.51  .5  
St. Louis  7,307.00  1.2  235  1.7  Philadelphia  142  1.0  5,640.50  .9  
Cincinnati  6,417.00  1.0  107  .8  
TOTALS  5356,262.22  58.1%  5,716  40.9%  TOTALS  6,496  46.5%  $211,604.66  34.6%  
In analyzing the above chart it will be noted that 17 cities have  In analyzing the above chart it will be noted that 46.5% of the  
contributed 58.1% of the total amount contributed in 1948.  40.9% of  alumni live in the above 16 cities.  However, only 34.6% of the total  
the alumni reside in these cities.  amount was contributed by the above cities.  
. 100% CHAIRMAN CITIES  70-100% CHAIRMAN CITIES  
Aberdeen  Tacoma  90%  Harrisburg  .' .75  
Birminghani  Ft. Lauderdale  89  Honolulu  75  
Dover  Kokomo  89  Marion  75  
Fond du Lac Hyannis Jamestown  Racine.Port Huron  83  82  SanduskySpringfield, Mo  75  75  
Lakeland  Richmond, Ind  82  La Crosse  74  
Lewiston-Aubum  Vincennes  82  Rock Island  73  
Minot Mott  CheyenneElmira  80  80  Bedford  71  
Muscatine  Beaumont  78  Evansvillc  71  
Ponca Providence  Hamilton  .78  Idaho Falls  71  
Salina  Davenport  76  Janesville  71  
Tucson  Ft. Wayne  76  Muskegon  70  
TOTAL—15 cities  East Chicago  75  TOTAL—26 cities  

THE FOLLOWING CITIES WERE ABOVE THE 50% AVERAGE OF ALUMNI PARTICIPATION: 
69%  Ogdensburg  64%  62%  
Joliet 68% Asbury Park  Salt Lake City Spartanburg Springfield, Ohio Whiting  Erie Geneva Pittsburgh Scran ton Sterling  Memphis Waterbury Williamsport  
Saginaw  Terre Haute  61%  
67% Albuquerque Burlington  66% Cincinnati Columbus Indianapolis  Tifiin Youngstown 63% Akron  Hartford Philadelphia 60%  
Coming  Miami  Phoenix  Chicopec  
Mandan  St. Louis  Plymouth  Hammond  

Los Angeles Marinette Newark, Ohio New Orleans St. Joseph, Mo. 
59% 
Kalamazoo 
- Trenton Wheding-Bellairc 
58% 
Flint 
Houston 
Louisville 
Portland 
57% 
El Paso Lowell Springfield, 111. Toledo 

56% 

Camden Canton Ft. Worth Lafayette Michigan City Muncie Nashville 
55% 

Buffalo Monroe San Francisco Schenectady 
54% 
Charleston Dayton 
' 53% Dallas Des Moines Oklahoma City Richmond, Va. South Bend Tulsa 
52% Syracuse 
51% Detroit Kansas City Rockford 
50% 
Albany 
Allentown 
Ariington . Asheville 
Boston 
Ghattanooga 
HaveAill 
Hibbii^ Johnstown 
Lorain 
Makme 
Manchester Peoria Pueblo Sioux Falls 
Taunton 
Waseca 

CITIES BELOW THE 50% ALUMNI PARTICIPATION AVERAGE 
49% 
Cleveland 
48% 
Baltimore Denver • Wilmington 
47% 
Chicago Gary Grand Rapids 
46% 
Benton Harbor Washington 
45% 
Auburn 
la/'L'cnntri 1 If' 
1 aCKsuii V iiic^ 
Lexington Newark Warren 
44% 
Dubuque 
Milwaukee Omaha Pawtucket Portsmouth Rochester, N. Y. Rutland 
Seattle 
43% 
Batavia 
23% 
Melrose 
22% . 
Milford 
.20% 
Huntington 
Shreveport Springfield, Mass. Trinidad 
17% 
Jackson, Miss. 
Northampton 
Reno 
15% 
Atlanta 
14% 
Anderson 
Palm Beach 
11% 
Ashtabula 
Boise Brockton Sheboygan 
7% 
Mexico City 
0% 
Augusta Bdmont Clinton NewUlm . Ffcmfarakc 
42% 

Binghamton Holyoke Logansport Notre Dame San Antonio 
40% 

Elizabeth 
Elkhart 
Hannibal 
Lawrence 
Lynchburg 
Newport 
39% New York City 
-
38% 

Colorado Springs Covington 
Utica 
37% 

Jersey City Minneapolis 
36% 

Moline 
St. Paul 
Worcester 
35% 

Madison 
34% Perth Amboy 
33% 
Aurora 
Brainerd 
Butte 
Port Arthur 
Rhinelander 
Woonsocket 
Zanesville 
32% 
Duluth 
31% 
La Porte 
Patterson 
30% 
Elyria Jackson, Mich. 
Little Rock 
Rochester, Minn. 
29% 
Eau Claire 
Moncssen 
27% 
Battle Creek 
Cambridge 
26% 
Wilkes-Barre 
25% 
FaU River 
Fargo Lyim 
Oshkosh Oswego Troy 
Vicksburg 
..v--:-ii^3m::y;,-^,"-:rsBL'S! 

Mr. Ed.vard J. Trace/ Jr. 
University Club 
State Cdllsge. Pa. 

NOTRE DAME 
100 Years 
(SECOND EDITION) 
by Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C. 
Notre Dame's one hundredth birthday was the occasion for the first printing of this 500-page book. On November 26, 1942, Notre Dame rounded out her first full ccnturj' of existence. Much has happened since then — the death of Father O'Donnell, Lobund research, the happenings in the little village of Vetville, the many anecdotes of an older post-war student body. Thus the second edition is an intimate account of Notre Dame in her first 106 years. Included are the saga of Father Sorin, the great football years, the glories of academic achievements, and many others. Available now . . . 
$J^.OO 
a single copy (postpaid) 
CLIP HERE ­
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE Date.. 
Notre Dame, Indiana  
Piease send me  copies of the second edition of NOTRE DAME 100 YEARS.  
Enclosed find $  Send books to:  

NAME.. ADDRESS.. 









