The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
'I 
1,000 Navai Trainees! 
at Notre Dame 
(Page 3) 

Class Reunions (Page 4) J, 
Heat Power Lab.  |  
In Use  i  
(Pase 5)  I  

U. N. D. Night 
(Page 6) 

Historic Murals : Are Unveiled | (Page 9) 
The World Famous Notre Dame Dome 
MARCH. 1942 No. 5 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Hueh 13: The Chekhov Theater Players in Shake­speare's "Twelfth Night.*' Directed by famous. Michael Chekhov of play and short story fame. 

UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS :-: :-: 
A ccnnpany of youncr American players, trained 
PROFESSORS TO GOVERNMENT The nation's war effort has claimed another Notre Dame faculty member with the announcement Feb. 13 by the University of the granting of a leave of absence for John P. Nash, instructor in mathematics. Dr. Nash has been asked to cooperate in goverimient work being done in the radiation laboratories of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Boston. 
Dr. Nash received his bachelor's de­gree from the University of California in 1936. He became a fellow at Rice In­stitute and worked there for four years receiving his master's and his doctorate in mathematics. In 1940 he joined Notre Dame's faculty of mathematics which has achieved international recognition under the leadership of the eminent Aus­trian scholar. Dr. Karl Menger. 
Dr. Nash is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi and the American Mathematical society. 
Dr. George B. Collins, distinguished physicist of the University and a leader in the development of the experiments with atomic disintegration at Notre Dame, is also at M.I.T. on a leave of ab­sence from the University to do govern­ment research. One of his outstanding student physicists, who assisted him in the construction of Notre Dame's electro­static generator, Alexander Pertauskas, is also working in the M.I.T. laborator­ies on leave of absence from Notre Dame. Petranskas received his bachelor's degree from Notre Dame in 1931 and his M.S. in 1938. 
PINKERTON BOOK TO LIBRARY Difficulties of protecting a United States president on an inaugural jour­ney to Washington, D. C, are intimately revealed in a privately printed first edi­tion recently acquired by the Notre Dame Library from the Chicago Pinker­ton Detective Agency. 
Allen Pinkerton, founder of the far-famed organization which bears his name, was in charge of safe passage for Abraham Lincoln from Harrisburg, Pa., to Washington, D. C, Feb. 22 and 23, 1861. It was on this journey that an as­sassination attempt was made on the life of the newly-elected President in Bal­timore, Md., which was successfully rooted. 
His recollections and papers on this incident were collected by the Pinkerton family and published under the title 
History of Evidence of the Paasfige of Abraham Lincoln from Harrisburg, Pa^ to Washington, D. C, 2Snd and SSrd of February, 1861. 
Two sons of Allen Pinkerton, William and Robert, attended Notre Dame in 1860-61. Robert Pinkerton returned in 1867 to complete his courses. 
NEW MEDIEVAL PUBLICATION Radical departure of Hitler's Germany from the long-standing German concept of law is contained in Saclisenspiegel and . Bible, a study of Guido Kisch, edited by Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C, dean of the Notre Dame graduate school. The book is the fifth volume of Notre Dame's Pub­lications in Medieval Studies, and was published recently at Notre Dame. 
Both Jewish and Christian scriptures were extensively used in the formulation of law in the great German legal docu­ment of the middle ages, the Sachsen­spiegel. This view of Prof. Kisch is con­trary to accepted views of many earlier scholars but is conclusively shown and is particularly significant in an era when the great legal tradition of Germany has been scrapped by the nazi state for the rule of man. 
Author of the Sachsenspiegel was Eike von Repgow, of Anhalt, a lay judge of knightly rank who was bom about 1180 and who died about 1233. Only a few years ago, in observance of the sev­enth centenary of his death, monuments in stone and bronze were erected to his memory in his native Germany. Prof. Kisch's work, edited by Father Moore, is a spiritual monument to von Sep­gow's contribution to the l^al tradition of the older Germany. Prof. Kisch's pres­entation of the Sachsenspiegel as deep­ly imbued with both the spirit and letter of the Bible, is in timely contrast to the present German philosophy of "blood' and soil." 
ENTERTAINMENT PROGRAM 
A brilliant entertainment program will be offered at Notre Dame during the remainder of 1941-42. The appearances of Jose Iturbi and Miss Helen Jepson will highlight Music Week from April 27 to May 4. 
The schedule is as follows: 

March 6: Cornelia Otis Skinner—^"The sreatest 
sinsrie attraction of the American theater** In 
New Orieinal MonoIoKnes. 
in the Chekhov Theater Studio. Mardi 20: Hie White Hussars. Brass ensemble of symphony artists, harpist, pianist, and operatic tenor. Muiie Wcdc April 27: OpeninE Mosic V?eek with the "Mar­riase of Figaro" sonir in English by the "Nine o'clock Opera Company" of New York. Mozart's greatest and gayest lyric,opera. April 30:' JcTse Iturbi, famous pianist and orches­tra conductor. Hay 4: Helen Jepson, celebrated artist of the Metropolitan Opera Company, will sing as solo­ist with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. 
N. D. RADIO COURSES Courses in amateur radio operation were introduced at Notre Dame in ni^ t classes beginning Feb. 1, Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C, defense coordinator, an­nounced. The courses were open to any persons interested, men or women, who had graduated from high school. The move follows an organization meeting of South Bend radio amateurs and stems from an urgent government request for trained radio operators. The Notre Dame courses will be taught two nights each week for a 15­
week period. • 
CENTENNIAL MEDAL At work now on a large medal for next year's centennial ceUbration symbolizing a century of progress at Notre Dame is the internationally famous Hungarian artist and sculptor, Eugene Kormendi. Employed by the University, Mr. Kor­mendi works in a studio on the top floor of the Administration Building. Besides doing his creative work in clay, wood, terra-cotta. bronze, or plaster, Mr. Kor­mendi will teach art courses in the University. The most famous of Kormendi's works are an heroic European war memorial of five continents represented by five lamenting women; a beantifol statue of the Empress Elizabeth of Hungary, in Budapest; and plaques bearing the por­traits of the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne diocese, and of Archbishop Samuel A. Stritch, D.D., of Chicago. Mrs. Kormendi, also an internationally famous artist, is the former Elizabeth Fejervary. Her work primarily consists of paintings of parks and beaches and fine ceramics. These two outstanding contemporary artists left their native Budapest some years ago, and have studied in Rome, Berlin, and in Paris under Rodin before coming to America from Holland in 1939. Their work has been exhibited ex­tensively in all of the Eun^tean capitals. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Thi« masazine i« pnbllihed oMotUr from October to Jane, inclusive (except January), kr Iha Paliairtr at Notre Dane. 
iv^ 


Notre Dame, Indiana. Entend aa aeeond elaa matter October 1, 19It, at the rnediaii^ Hotra DMMU TaiBaaa. Oder the 
aet< of Aoetiat 24, 1912. Heinber of the American Ahmml Coondl and of the NatMal ChthoHe Alonai HeJetatluB. JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, "75. Eiilor; WILUAM R. DOOLEY, Tfi. Manafnt Editor 
Vol. 20 MARCH. 1942 No. 5 

1,000 Naval Trainees at N. D. on April 15 
One thousand naval reserve midship­men will report to the campus on April 15 for a one-month indoctrination course under the V-7 (deck officer or eng^eer­ing officer) program. Rev. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C, president of the University, announced on March 1. A thousand men will be trained in the same course in each subsequent month, according to present plans. 
The program of naval aviation train­ing in the Middle West for which the facilities of Notre Dame were considered by the Navy Department has been in­stalled at the University of Iowa. This program, according to some estimates, would have brought as many as 2,500 naval trainees to the Notre Dame campus. 
Capt. H. P. Bumett, U.S.N., head of Notre Dame's unit of the Naval K.O.T.C, has been named general commandant of the combined Notre Dame naval pro­gram. Lt. - Commander John D. Shaw, U.S.N,, formerly head of the ordnance department of the Navy's training school at Abbott Hall, Northwestern University, Chicago, will be executive of­ficer of the new Notre Dame unit. Lt.­Commander Max Schwitzner, S.C. V(G), U.S.N.R., will be supply officer for the new trainees. Both of these men are already at Notre Dame. 
Under the new program, Notre Dame's K-O.T.C. will continue unaffected by the indoctrination course offered under the V-7 program, and has only its command­ing officer in common with the new mid­shipmen. 
The 1,000 men arriving on April 15 will be college graduates from all over the United States, enlisted under the V-7 classification of naval reserve mid­shipmoi. The indoctrination course at Notre Dame will select those who will go 
Captain ' H. P. Bumett To ComnMnd Both New Group and Present N.R.O.T.C; Navy To Take Over Three Campus Halls. 
from their month's training here to the three schools which offer the three-month training course leading to ensign's com­missions, such as the Mid-West training school at Abbott Hall. 
The course at Notre Dame will be basic in teaching the fundamentals in becoming Navy officer materiaL Inocu­lations, uniforms, physical drill, and some basic classroom work will aid naval officers in selecting personnel of satis­factory caliber for entering the advanced training courses. The other men, under the terms of their enlistment, will ronain in the Navy as apprentice seamen. Ctyit. Bumett states that -n^iereas Annapolis trains 500 to 600 ensigns annually, Notre Dame, imder the new program in con­junction with the three advanced train­ing schools, is being asked to produce some 12,000 candidates annually. 
Details of the physical assimilation of the new naval unit are not complete. 
Captain H. P- Bumett 
However, Lyons, Monisaey and How­ard halls, erected in 192B-26-27 as the first of Notre Dame's residence expan­sion program, wiU be completely evacu­ated by the University and taken over for housing the naval reserve midship­men. The Navy will furnish the halls to accommodate the unit, and hall regu­lations will be under naval officers. Capt. Bumett expects from 15 to 20 naval officers to report for duty by April 15 to command the various phases of train­ing for the new recruits. 
Present plans call for the feeding of the midshipmen in one wing of the great University dining haUs, the capacity of which coincides with the entire number of men in the naval unit. Some expansion of kitchen facilities will be necessary, but by serving the midshipmen's meals and the University student meals in the one wing in relays three-quarters of an hour to an hour apart, the one hall will accommodate both groups. 
Notre Dame's laundry will also be ex­panded to meet the increased donands of laundry work arising from the hous­ing of the additional men on the campus. 
Recreation facilities, such as the Rock­ne Manorial and the University gym­nasium, will be shared with the naval reserves, and much of the naval program will be conducted outdoors on the several fidds which the campus affords. 
The Navy program will not intrude upon the regular acadonie work of Notre Dame, and Notre Dame students, partic­ularly in the face of some loss of enroll­ment from selective service and enlist­ments, can be accommodated by a more intensive use of the 11 remaining resi­deniee halls on the campus. 
Capt. Burnett announces that for the regular Notre Dame tmit of the Naval 

R.O.T.C., candidates vnll be accepted only in the September semester here­after, and must remain eight consecutive semesters, which, under Notre Dame's accelerated program, would mean com­pleting their college and E.O.T.C. work in two and two-thirds years instead of the customary four. 
The personnel of the new program will find yoimg men prominent in all phases of imdergraduate life on American cam­puses, including many recent football heroes, Capt. Burnett stated. Some of Notre Dame's own student leaders have enlisted in this branch of the service, and will undoubtedly be among the early trainees in the new course on the campus of their Alma Mater. 
Capt. H. P. Burnett, U.S.N., newly appointed commander of the naval re­serve midshipmen indoctrination course at the University of Notre Dame, a'S­sumed his duties as commander of the University's first unit of the Naval R. 0. 
T. C. in September, 1941. 
Capt. Burnett was graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1915. During the first World War (1917­1919) Capt. Burnett served on the staff of Admiral Henry T. Mayo, the com­mander-in-chief of the United States fleet, aboard the fleet flagship, U. S. S. Pennsylvania. 
The new commandant advanced rap­idly in naval service. Upon graduation from Annapolis he was commissioned ensign. In^ the year 1917 he held the ranks of lieutenant (junior grade) and then lieutenant. In 1925 he became a lieutenant - commander and ten years later a commander. In 1941, after be­coming head of the Notre Dame imit, he rose to full captaincy. In the University, he is professor of naval science and tactics. 
Capt. Burnett has commanded a de­stroyer and a submarine. From 1927 to 1930 he held a commission in the Peruv­ian navy as a member of the U. S. Navy mission there. 
In the Captain's 32 years of associa­tion with the Navy, he has been dec­orated with the Victory Medal of the first World War; the second Nicaraguan Campaign Medal, and the Expert Rifle­man's badge. He wears these decorations in addition to his submarine insignia, which in naval service corresponds to an aviator's "wings." 
ON BOARD OF VISITORS 

Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president, has received oflJcial notice of his appoint­ment to the 18-man board of visitors for the United State Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md. 
Reunion Plans Are Indefinite 
The Arrival of Naval Men Complicates Arrangements. 
Announcements with regard to the almnni reimion in conjunction with the spring commencement have had to be withheld because of several complicating factors, chiefly concerned with the arriv­al, on April 15, of 1,000 V-7 naval train­ees who will occupy Lyons, Morrissey and Howard halls. 
Even yet, only this much can be said: 

1.
 The Commencement will be held much earlier, on Saturday and Sunday, May 9 and 10, in keeping with the ac­celerated, three semester program. 

2.
 The alumni reunion phase of the Commencement will probably have to be limited to one day, Saturday, May 9, be­cause of an apparent lack of housing facilities for alumni. 

3.
 There is a possibility that the Uni­versity may be able to house for Friday and Saturday nights alumni of the five-year reunion classes—^1917, 1922, 1927, 1932 and 1937, together with alumni of the 50-year class—1892—^but there will not, imfortunately, be any residence ac­commodations for alumni outside the re­union classes. 

4.
 Alumni will, of course, be welcome to find their own housing accommoda­tions in South Bend if they wish to do so, but they should realize in advance that South Bend hotel facilities for a Commencement week-end are ordinarily taken very largely by the relatives of graduates. 

5.
 The Alumni OfiBce is in communi­cation with the secretaries of the re­union classes in an attempt to work out a program that will be agreeable to all persons concerned. Definite announce­ments will be made as soon as possible— not later than in the April ALUMNUS, 


FRANK CLARKE. '39. DIES 
Near press time came news of the trag^ic loss of Ensign Francis 
X. Clarke, B.C.S., '39, of Chicago, one of those lost when the naval supply ship Pollux went aground on the Newfoundland coast late in February. Frank completed a two-year business administration course at Harvard last year. Shortly aft­erward he was commissioned in the Navy. 

sooner, by mail, if things can be ar­ranged sufiiciently. 
A questionnaire recently mailed to all alumni will provide (it is hoped) con­siderable enlightening information with regard to probable attendance at the reunion. 
It need hardly be said that the ofScials of the University and the officers of the Alumni Association are sincerely regret­ful that war conditions have forced the temporary abandonment of part of the traditional Notre Dame alumni reunion. Only something as "all-out" as the pres­ent war could dictate so radical a step. 
To compensate—and in the best Notre Dame form of compensation—^"all-out" plans will be announced within the next few months for a Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, probably next fall. Keep that in mind. Meanwhile, at your local Grotto and elsewhere, keep on re­membering those hundreds of Notre Dame lads who are out there in the far spots of the globe, or who are in training to go out there. 
ALUMNI IN N. C C. S. 

Six Notre Dame alumni are at pres­ent helping direct the nationwide efforts of the National Catholic Community Ser­vice, a member ag^ency of the United Service Organizations for National De­fense. 
Most Rev. Edward Mooney, D.D., LL.D., '36, is president of the Board of Trustees for the N.C.C.S. and chairman of its governing committee; and the Right Rev. Msgr. Michael J. Ready, LL.D., '41, is secretary of the board. Daniel C. Culhane, '23, is program di­rector. 
Three of the seven N. C. C. S. field supervisors are former students of the University: Frank E. Cane, M.A., '36, of Los Angeles, is serving the states of California, Nevada, Or^on, and Wash­ington. C. Glynn Eraser, ex. '37, of Bos­ton, is serving Connecticut, Massachu­setts, Maine, Rhode Island, and Verment. And Paul Maholchic, ex. '34, of Atlanta, is serving Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, South Carolina, and Tennes­see. Several other alumni are in charge of individual N.C.C.S. headquarters. 



Heat Power Laboratory in Use 
Superior Facilities Aid in the National Defense Training of Many Notre Dame Engineers. 
Heat and power, the work-horses of modem industry—are laid bare in both theory and practice before the eyes of engineering students in the new Heat Power Laboratory at Notre Dame, erect­ed north of the heating plant, on the Eddy Street Koad. 
Every phase of the development of power through the application of heat, a process without which our national economy would collapse, is subjected to intense scrutiny with the new and com­pletely modem facilities the laboratory affords. 
Completed just last summer, this two-story brick building places Notre Dame in the front rank of similar laboratories in universities of the Middle West. Facil­ities are used by students of both the Mechanical and the Aeronautical Engi­neering Departments, which are busy these days training students to step into the national defense effort as specialists. 
Despite defense priorities which are holding up a portion of the new equip­ment for the Mechanical Engineering department, this section of the laboratory already boasts two imique steam-driven air compressors, which may be operated either condensing or non-condensing and simple or compound. According to Prof. Carl C. Wilcox, head of the Mechanical Engineering Department, a student might with profit spend his entire four years of engineering study on the in­tricacies of these two machines. 
Other features of this section of the laboratory include a Universal Unailow engine directly connected to a 75 kilowatt 
D. C. generator and equipped vidth prony brake wheel Two steam turbo generators will be installed, a complete air-condi­tioning unit will take up a portion of the laboratory, and provisions have been made for pumping equipment which will handle 10,000 g^allons of water from the University lakes. 
The Aeronautical Engineering Depart­ment, headed by Prof. Frank N. M. Brown occupies approximately half of the new laboratory -with its courses on the workings of internal combustion en­gines. Formerly, all equipment of this department was housed in Gushing Hall of Engineering on the campus, but with the completion of the new laboratory a transfer has been effected for concentra­tion of study. 
The equipment used in the study of in­ternal combustion engines includes three electric reaction type dynamometers; two variable compression engines, one Diesel and the other gasoline type, for fuel re­search; a Foos gas enpne; marine en­gine torque stand; ample resistance banks for generator loading; and many other types of machinery. One of the three dynamometers has a 125 h.p. ca­pacity, designed for 7,000 r.p.m. It is one of three in the entire United States so rated. 
Displays of various types of airplane engines mounted for demonstration in this department include a Wright Cy­clone, the Liberty engine of World War I, a Curtis D-12, several Lycomings of various horsepower and other aircraft motors. 
Still another division ,of the new build­ing is the fuel laboratory, arranged for the analysis and study of solid and liquid fuels. Arrangements are also being made in the laboratory for the study of the flow of fluids such as air, steam and water through pipes. 
There is also a special instrument cali­bration room equipped to standardize all instruments used, a complete repair de­partment for the various machines, and electrical devices for testing purposes. Engineering classrooms, reading and ref­erence rooms, and offices are located in both the new laboratory and in Cashing Hall. 
.J^^mm. 
''^©Vr^'' 

One of the more interesting internal combustion experiments now in process in the new Heat Power Laboratory at Notre Dame requires this extensive equipment This investigation is being conducted in co-operation witii Studebaker Corporation of South Bend to study heat transfer properties of new, as compared with old, autemo' bile engines. At the left is a Studebaker Oiampion engine hooked up with an electric reaction type dynamometer, and at the right are the gauges and pressure indicators from which students record the progress of the experiment. 
ADDRESSES K. OF C. revenue by such states as Arkansas, Ne­STUDIES N.D. ORGANIZATION 
vada and Florida.... 

Describing divorce as "big business," Monsignor Francisco Vives, vice-rec­
"Think of a Christian nation so callous 

birth control as "plowing under chil­tor of the Catholic University of Chile, 
that it harbors an organization that out­

dren" and mercy killings as murders. in Santiago, arrived on the campus, Feb. 
Herods Herod in its slaughter of the 

Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president 25, to devote a week to the study of the 
innocents. See what contribution Sanger-

of the University, addressed more than organization of Notre Dame. Coming 
ites have made to the litany of disgrace. 2,000 Fourth Degree Knights of Colum­They have accepted murder as a means here from Washington, Msgr. Vives, in bus in Chicago on March 1. 
to a shameful end." this conntiy as a g:aest of the state de­In denunciation of divorce and birth Denouncing the planned parenthood. partment, was making a, study of several control Father O'Donnell stated: "Ap­Father O'Donnell stated: "It's leaders universities, including Catholic Univer­proximately 10,000,000 persons in the would have government subsidize the sity and Harvard. United States have received a divorce nonraising of children, as farmers were 
Msgr. Vives is the author of a bi­decree in one or another of our 8,000 subsidized for not raising com. We ha,ve ography of Pope Kus Xn, and a recent 

divorce courts. Divorce is a big business. just plowed under our moral sense; why It is recognized as a legitimate source of not start plowing under children." work on the philosophy of law. 
Universal Notre Dame Night — /Ifi^ii n 
(FRIDAY) 

The Alumni Association is conscious of the facts that: 
1.
 People are not interested in "celebrations." 

2.
 Needless expenditure of money is inadvisable. 

3.
 Expenditure of time should have a serious motive. 

4.
 Clubs, as social and fraternal groups, are having some diffi­culties in caiTying on ordinary programs. 


(d) The Night can paint for America a picture of the 
aut. 

100 year-old patriotism of Notre Dame and her alumni. 
The Alumni Association is also conscious of these facts: So the Association has gone ahead with Universal Notre 
1. Universal Notre Dame Night has been more than a Dame Night, identi^ring it fittingly, we believe, with the "celebration," it has been the annual marking of an­major effort of the University in World War 11, the advent other milestone in the academic progress of Notre Dame, of a unit .of 1,000 naval trainees of the V-7 program on 
a very serious part of the history of our country. the University campus. 
We hope to have the benefits of a national radio hook-up, 2. Meetings need not be expensive, need in fact cost little knowing that this year, as never before, Notre Dame men or nothing—with two major projects deserving of sup­
are in most of the camps of the United States armed port from such saving, the Government and the Uni­forces, and on the high seas and in far ports. The voice versity. 
of Alma Mater will mean more to them than in any other year of the 18 years that Universal Notre Dame Night 
3. Time spent in perpetuating Notre Dame and those has existed. things for which Notre Dame stands, is time spent in the highest form of patriotism—preserving a real depos­
And the Clubs can use the occasion for a clarification of 
itory of fundamental American principles, and creating 
many issues that have been buried in the pleasant haze more than a mere vault, a spring from which new gen­of reminiscence in years past. 
erations are constantly fed. 

The time is'short. But the task is clear. 
4. Notre Dame Clubs have a program far more vital than social or fraternal objectives. 
This is the year for emphasizing the person, rather than 
the "party." 

(a)
 The Night can renew the purposes of the Clubs on 

the serious levels the times demand. Men, not menu, should be the goal of the committee. 

(b)
 The Night can focus the success or failure of the Clubs to supply necessary material support to the 


Notice will be sent out regarding radio arrangements. 
University in its present critical efforts. 
(c) The Night can identify in the Club community a In the meantime, many Clubs have local Station connec­source of trained leadership in local emergency tions. Use them again. If you give them what you can measures. give them this year, theyll welcome you. 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT /7/BW/7 




The Character of Father Sorin 
As we approach the centenary of the University, we cannot escape the con­clusion that for more than 50 years. Father Sorin was the outstanding figure at Notre Dame, determined its policies, guided its destiny. There are stUl a few men living who knew him personally. But the memory of none of them goes back beyond the days when he was a white - bearded, silver - locked priest, a majestic but somewhat feeble patriarch, the object of reverential awe on the part of all who came in contact with him. No one now alive remembers him as the black-haired and black-eyed giant, flow­ing over with energy and determination, sweeping before him all obstacles, driv­ing, plunging to complete and maintain a great University dedicated to the Mother of God. 
Some of us are inclined to think that the present Notre Dame has far out­grown even the wildest dreams of Father Sorin. Literally, that is not true. He didn't of course, foresee the atom-smash­er; he had no vision of Nieuwland work­ing out his formula'for synthetic rubber; he had no specific picture of the devel­opment of the new campus. But what he did have was the confident assurance that the University would grow gie&t in all the ways a University should grow. 
About two years before his death, he was quite ill and confined to his rooms on the first floor of the Presbytery, rooms-now occupied by the Provincial. As he lay in his reclining chair, he could turn his head and see, through the window, the golden dome and Our Lady sur­mounting it. He scribbled a note in his shaky hand and addressed it to Father Thomas Walsh, C.S.C, the then presi­dent of the University. "This morning, I have been looking at Our Lady. I am now as certain as it is possible to be certain that with the aid of Our Blessed Mother, under whose image we are liv­ing, our University will prosper. There is only one obstacle, and that arises from ourselves. If we ever withdraw our confi­dence in her protection, or fail to do her will, then, indeed, the University will fall in ruins!" 
Father Sorin had many characteristics. 

Founder of Notre Dame Had "G>nfident As­surance that the University Would Grow Great in All the Ways a University Should Grow." 
By Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C, '20 

His principal quality, in my estimation, was a bull-headed determination to get on with whatever work he had in mind. There is scarcely a thing that he did, a' line that he wrote, in which this stub­bornness is not apparent. His principal interest was the University. It remained such even after he was elected Superior General of the Congregation. One might expect to find Father Sorin's endeavors shifted to a larger field. By his office. 
Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C 

he had to care for all the houses of the commimity, in France, in Italy, in Can­ada, and the missions. But his heart ever remained at Notre Dame. When he was abroad—and it was often—^he constantly reiterates his desire to be back at the University, he speaks of his lonesome­ness, his anxiety lest things be going badly. His supreme content was achieved when, back on the campus, he could again have his finger in University aifairs. 
It is not wholly irreverent to say that Father Sorin wias a tyrant. Tyrannical he was. And no doubt, many were the toes stepped on. But all in all, his energy was so great, his vision so clear, his personality so impressive, that the im­position ,of his will cannot be said to have been a bad thing. From his boy­hood, he was accustomed to dominate. There are extant certain documents in which Father Sorin's playmates testify that, as a boy, Sorin was thdr leader. More than this, he would brook no dis­putation of that leadership. One would not say he was meek. Once, when a teacher punished him unjustly, as he thought, he refused to return to school. From then on, until he was ready for college, he studied privately. 
Again, when he came to America as a priest, in 1841, he brou^t with him all his spunk. With some Brothers of Holy Cross, he settled in the southern part of Indiana. The Bishop of Vincennes gave him a tract of land east of Washingtcm, Ind. It was called St. Peter's. Father Sorin determined to put up a collie there. But the Bishop of Vincennes wrote him: "Why a college? We have a college here in Vincennes. It seems useless to put up another one only forty miles away!" The Bishop, of course, was right. In that sparsely settled country, there was no need of two colleges. 
But Father Sorin would have his col­lege. And the Bishop, somewhat annoyed by such persistence, finally made this, as he thought, impossible proposition: "I have an extensive piece of property up north, near South Bend. Ill give you that land if, witiiin two years, you build both a college and a novitiate." After all, the Bishop had desired Father Sorin's presence as a missionary, not as the head of a college. He did not tiunk that Father Sorin would accept the offer to go north. Where, he asked himself, would Sorin get means to fulfill the two condi­tions imposed? It was the dead of winter, anyhow. Sorin, he told himself, could not go until spring. The Bishop did not know his man. In a few days. Father Sorin galloped into Vincennes and told the Bishop that they were ready to start. Snow and ice and wind could not stop them. They left Vincennes on the 16th of November. They were at Notre Dame, eleven days later. The year was 1842. 
During the year Father Sorin had spent at St. Peter's, he had gathered some vocations for the brotherhood. The original colony, of course, was entirdy French. But some Irish, and at least one EngHshman, joined the commumty. at St. Peter's. And wlien Failier Sorin eame to Notre Dame, in company with seven brothers, four of those brothers were 
Irish. This may, or may not, be import­too, Mr. Rush seems to have been com­ant. Those of us who rejoice in the pletely non-plussed by Father Sorin's appelation of "Fighting Irish" may get boldness. Some months later, in fact. 
comfort out of the knowledge that the race was abundantly represented that November afternoon when the founder of Notre Dame first gazed upon the snow-covered banks of Notre Dame's lakes. 
Again, there is a striking instance of Father Sorin's determination in an event which occurred in 1855. For two years previous to this event, the University had suffered from malaria. Priests, brothers, sisters and students were stricken. So many deaths occurred that the bodies of the victims had to be secreted and buried after dark lest a panic should arise among the student-body. The cause of this frightful epi­demic was the marshy ground surround­ing the "island," on which the Commun­ity House at present stands. The water in the lakes was so high that there was no hope of bettering the unhealthy con­dition except by lowering the level of the water. 
This was made impossible, however, by a man named Bush. He owned a mill over in the gniUy below St. Mary's. There he had a dam which kept the water in the lakes at a high level. Father Sorin had made repeated efforts to buy the property from Mr. Rush, but the latter, knowing how frantically Father Sorin desired the property, set an impossiBle price on it. Father Sorin resented the actions of this "hold-up" man, as he called him. But the state of health at the University, the numerous deaths, made it imperative to buy the land in question. Finally, Rush said he would sell for $8,000.00. They spent four days drawing up the necessary papers, and just when the transaction was to be completed. Rush left town. 
Father Sorin was deeply resentful. He felt that Rush was playing with human lives, and that his avarice had blinded him to the misery so long endured at Notre Dame. In this moment of trial. Father Sorin took the law in his own hands. It was Holy Thursday morning, 1855. Before Mass, Father Sorin called five or six of his workmen. "Get your axes and hatchets and crowbars. Go over to Mr. Rush's dam. Smash it to pieces. If anyone asks you what you are doing, merely tell them you have orders to tear down the dam. Do it quickly and thor­oughly!" Then he went to say Mass. 
This bit of high-handed business might have had serious legal consequences for Father Sorin. That it did not, was due, partly, to the fact that even in South Bend, there was resentment against Rush for his annoying behaviour. Then, Father Sorin wrote: "There are mo­ments when a vigorous stand upsets the enemy!" Anyhow, Rush completed the deal. The water in the lakes sank. The marsh dried up. There was no more malaria at Notre Dame. 

Some 24 years after this event, there came upon Notre Dame its greatest dis­aster to date, the fire of 1879, which consumed practically every college build­ing vnth the exception of the church. No lives were lost. In fact, no one was seriously injured. There was a bit of insurance on the property, but not near­ly enough. To rebuild the work of 37 years, without resources, without credit, \vithout wealthy friends, who would un­dertake it? There was one asset that Notre Dame could coimt on. It was the courage of Father Sorin. 
At the moment of the fire. Father Sorin was in Montreal. As soon as he received word of the disaster, he came back. It was a sad group of religious that met him. The ruins were still .smoldering as Father Sorin made his way around what had been his mag­nificent college. Priests and brothers followed him feeling in their hearts their father's sorrow. For him, most of all, there was a sort of choking, sobbing sympathy. When he had completed his inspection, he went into the church. The entire community followed him in. Going up to the altar rail. Father Sorin turned and faced them. His words were brief. "I wouldn't care, even if we had lost everything! We will begin again! The Mother of God cannot be defeated!" 
Timothy E. Howard was a young professor at Notre Dame then. He was in the church the moment that Father Sorin spoke. He has written that Father Sorin's determination that morning, ex­pressed so briefly, was the most inspira­tional event he had ever witnessed. Wb&i those priests and brothers walked into the church behind Father Sorin that morning, they were a beaten, discour­aged lot of men. When Father Sorin spoke, they were electrified with courage and determination. It was like a g^rand pep-talk between halves. 
Forty thousand copies of the new pamphlet "Boy Meets Girl — The Chris­tian Way," by Rev. Frank E. Gartland, C.S.C, '33, former prefect of Teligion, were demanded in only two months. Father Gartland is now in Our Lady of Holy Cross Seminary, North Easton, Mass. The pamphlet can be procured from Our Sunday Visitor, Huntington, Ind. 

RooJu 

••••••••••••••••I 
T\i6 Cure of Ruille, Notre Dame, Indi­ana: The Ave Maria Press. Pp. 268. $1.00. 
The Cur6 of Ruille by Brother Eph­rem, C.S.C, M.A., '24, is the biography of a man who risked his life in the French Revolution to become a priest. Afterward, as a busy pastor, he founded almost single-handed, two flourishing re­ligious institutaons: the Sisters of Prov­idence and the Brothers of St. Joseph, now known as the Brothers of Holy Cross. A few years after the death, in 1838, of the cur6, the Very Reverend James Francis Dujarie, his sons and daughters, were blazing trails and plant­ing the cross in the diocese of Vincennes in the vast wilderness of Indiana. 
To. the reader of Brother Ephrem's book. Canon Dujarie will no longer re­main a name in the shade, but rather that of a notable orgfanizer, an apostoCc priest, an exceptional pastor. Indeed, from the hour of his first Mass, which he said on New Year's Day, 1796, under cloak of secrecy, at a rudely-built altar in the cellar of a farmhouse, a setting reminiscent of other Reigns of Terror, until his resignation of the parish of Ruille, some 40 years later, he labored with a flaming zeal for souls, especially the souls of youth. 
The life, written in an easy-flowing and readable style, is a worthwhile addi­tion to the biographies of those noble men and women to whom the Church in our day owes so much: the founders of our modem Congregations.—B.A. 
Summer After Summer, a "first" novel by Richard Sullivan, '30, assistant pro­fessor of English, has been accepted by Doubleday Doran & Co., for publication next September. Mr. Sullivan's short stories have appeared in many leading publications including The Atlantic Monthly, Columbia, Midland, Seribners and the New Republic and another story will soon appear in The Yale Revieiv. His play. Our Lady's Tumbler, has also been published and is produced frequently, and he has contributed to Spirit, the organ of the Catholic Poetry Society. 
A member of the English faculty at Notre Dame since 1936, Mr. Sullivan is president of the Holyrood Chapter of the Catholic Poetry Society, which has its members chiefly from the faculties of St. Mary's College and Notre Dame. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Historical Murals Are Unveiled 
Two murals, unveiled recently, are the first of a series of historical decorative pieces on the walls of the cafeteria of the University. 

Augustine G. Pall, artist, came to Notre Bame from Paris, France, in the spring of 1941 and was commissioned to do the series depicting the history of the University and commemorating its centenary in 1942. 
The first murals, on the upper half of the east main hall of the cafeteria, con­sist primarily of a major picture of a South American scene, in which the his­toric figure of the late Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C., predominates. The figure is pictured in South American jungle environment which surround his famous expedition up the Amazon river. A rub­ber plantation with its natural rubber processes and native figures relieves the rich coloring of the jungle foliage and animal life. 
Inset in this major mural is a second­ary mural, rich in historical connotation for Notre Dame and suggested by the rubber theme of the larger mural. It de­picts the late Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C, in his laboratory, working on the basic formulae which ultimately permit­ted the production of synthetic rubber by du Pont. In the Nieuwland mural also appear the figures of two present faculty members who were invaluable assistants to the great priest-scientist, the present dean of the College of Science, Prof. 
Work of A. G. Pall Pictures Father Zahtn's Travels and Father Nieuw­land's Discoveries in Synthetic Rubber. 
Henry B. Froning, and George F. Hen­nion, assistant professor of chemistry and chemical engineering. 
In addition, Mr. Pall is working on murals for the west walls to be com­pleted by Easter vacation. Plans ulti­mately call for a complete series on the walls of the colorful cafeteria, and the artist believes that two years may be necessary for the entire project. Com­pleted, the history of the University will be presented in colorful and pictorial form to the thousands of students and visitors who annually patronize the cafe­teria section of the University dining halls. 
The first murals present two of the great contributions of Notre Dame and the Congregation of Holy Cross to the culture and science of America. 
Father Zahm was a distinguished scientist, author and scholar of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. He was honored as a scholar by Pope Leo XIII and was praised for his personal achieve­ments by the great French scientist, Louis Pasteur, a personal friend. 
Father Zahm was a naturalist and great traveler as well as a scholar. His book. Through South America's South­land, dealt with this adventurous journey along the River of Doubt. 
Father Zahm was a brother of the great aeronautical pioneer scientist. Dr. Albert Zahm, '83, former faculty member at Notre Dame, who now holds the Gug­genheim chair of aeronautics in the Con­gressional Library, Washington, D. C. 
Father Nieuwland worked for 30 years in the chemical laboratories of Notre Dame. He produced many developments of scientific importance in his major field, acetylene chemistry, and he was a world figure as an authority is his hobby, botany. The American Midland Naturalist, published at Notre Dame, is a monument to his work in this field. 
His early experiments at Notre Dame and at Catholic university, Washington, where he received his doctorate, resulted in many basic formulae. From early developments during the first World War came the gas developed by Major Lewis as Lewisite. 
And finally at Notre Dame came the formulae developed successfully into commercial synthetic rubber. Father Nieuwland found that in certain pro­cesses of producing acetylene gas, an oil, divinyl acetylene, was exuded, and that by treating this oil with sulphur dichlor­ide an elastic substance could be formed resembling natural rubber. The process was reported to the Indiana Academy of Science in 1935. 
The dnPont company acted on this basic work and evolved the various com­mercial products which have now gone into the hundreds and which assume in­creased importance under: the natural rubber-shortage of the current war.' 

Cafeteria Murals Show Activities of Two Leading Holy Cross Priests. 
Notre Dame Memories 
(From the files of the Notre Dame "Scholastic") 
on Sound.... the Seholastie contained 
more prose and poetry than news.... bi­cyclists converted the walks in front of the main building and Sorin Hall into their war-path members of the Brownson Mustache Club were inclined to lean forward a trifle because of their heavy burdens the spire on the church tower was finished.... an easy way to have taken the enrollment would have been to multiply the number of campus baseball teams by nine. 
The new arc lamps that illuminated the "yard".... Brother Hilarion's table played H. McCullough's table for pie and at the end of five inning^ the score stood 6 to 4 in favor of Brother Hilarion's men ... . the cyclists out every morning on the race track training for the five mile bike race on Field Day.... the coUegfe cheer went: Rah! Rah!! Rah!!! Gold and Blue!!!! N.D.U.!!!... the final score of the important N.D.-Hillsdale CoUege grid battle on Thanksgiving Day was 10-10. 
40 Years Ago: 
Sorinites stopped creasing their trous­ers between the ticks when Wieniewurzer purchased a charcoal iron and allowed borrowing privileges.... a favorite trick was hanging a fellow's bed springs from the gas jet Coach O'Dea's football men won for Notre Dame the Indiana championship by defeating Indiana and Purdue.... the Temperance Society or­ganized by Father Marr became a pow­erful influence.... Cartier's gfiidiron was sodded to diminish injuries coming from hard tackles on rough ground the price of potatoes had increased so much that a number of Sorinites were planning to invest in a stock of "Murphys" and sell them for watch charms. 
Prof. O'Connor's elocution classes' presoitation of "Twelfth Night".... the Graphaphone concerts following interhall basketball games in Brownson gym.... water polo and crew races were becoming popular.... at Christmas tiie boys asked for bicycle lamps. Duke's IGxtnre, a championship baseball team, bon-bons, a moustache.... testing machines to meas­ure physical strength were a feature of the gym.... W. N. Langknecht held the strength test records in the University with his 1,206 kilos strength test, 597 kilos I ^ test, 31 push nps and 20 pull nps. 
The "Notre Dame Atiiletic Almanac" sdling for a quarter was so good the Sehalaatie printed a half page of cor­rections to it a series of games with Comiskey's Chicago White Stockings opened tiie Notre Dame baseball season 
one called a livray stable to order 
ITEMS IN THE NEWS 
75 Years Ago: 
The first issue of Scholastic was pub­lished; "undertaken to give to parents frequent accounts of the institutions in which they have placed their children and to supplement in a less formal way the Monthly Bulletin of Classes and Con­duct". .. . the large bell was one of the chief attractions at Notre Dame, and both students and visitors competed in a sort of informal ringing tournament.... Master Page of Milwaukee brought a live bald eagle to the campus and stu­dents spent happy hours poking at it through its cage in Brother Peter's garden. 
The Notre Dame University Comet Band was organized with a membership of 22.... nearly every Scholastic news item ended with a moral, ex. "And the lesson is, that to know how to command they must know how to obey."... himt­ing was a favorite sport, but due to the scarcity of ducks and game a great amount of powder and shot and balls was expended; the lolling of chickens was, of course, considered fowl play.... football could be played with 60 or 70 boys in heavy boots who were not afraid of having their shins kicked.... there was a special honor roll for close appli­cation, progress, penmanship, spelling, neatness, orthography, and proficiency. 
Students and woodcutters engaged in a battle of letters to the Editor over the cutting down of trees in the grove near St. Joseph's Novitiate a structure was erected to house the large bell until the time when a tower worthy of it might be built.... monthly bulletins were sent to parents with class and conduct grades from one to six showing the stu­dents standing; the "note" 1 was con­sidered the best note and 6 the worst that could be pven.... everyone referred to Washington Hall's newly redecorated interior, bine and white with a star-studded pink ceiling as "sunset on the lake."... the majority of students re­mained at Notre Dame for the Christmas holidays, vacation being only about four days in duration.... early ice-skating was done on "Ryan's Pond" imtil a good freeze made the lakes safe. 
60 Years A30: 
The college could accommodate 500 resident students new students were received any time; their term beginning with the date of their entrance.... The Eev. Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C, was ap­pointed president of the University.... linen dusters and long light ulsters with "flip-flaps" were all the go Luigi Gregori, the famous Italian artist and head of the Art Department, began work on a series of paintings from the life of Columbus done on the main corridor of the University BuOding.... 17 minims who spent their summer vacation at Notre Dame had a big time at the St. Joe Farm, but many innocent ducks lost their lives in favor of the small boys.... the same minims erected a monument over the remains of the Eilkenney cat, who fell a victim to .the dog Sancho's hatred for the feline tribe. 
"Crowned with Stars" a volume of poems by Eleanor C. Donnelly was pub­lished to aid in placing a statue of the Blessed Virgin on the dome.... pulling matches were one form of competition between the Juniors and Seniors.... baseball was a year-round game; but in Septanber the winning team won water­melons. .. . Notre Dame and the entire nation mourned the death of President 
Garfield the Calisthenics Exhibition in the rotunda was a huge success.... the Seniors sent to Chicago for a foot­ball so that the Juniors could not mon­opolize the game in the future. 
The uniforms of the Notre Dame Ca­dets consisted of "blue pantaloons, with a tight-fitting blouse of the same ma­terial; and all the trimmings of scarlet" .... boat races on St. Edward's day.... the students were given their long prom­ised oyster supper.... one of the most popular reasons given for the fact tbat the Juniors so often excelled the Seniors was that "the former do not use tobacco in any way while the latter are confirmed users of the weed".... the boys like to smuggle in such reading material as "Tiger Tom, the Texan Terror" and "Tom Tanner, Scalawag and Scape­grace" the bright glow shed by "the" 
electric light on the campus. 




50 Years Ago: 
Scientists were easterly awaiting the appearance of Father Zahm's new book transportation for a big evening... items most often appearing in the lost and found columns were 1) watch fobs, 2) umbrellas, 3) pearl handled knives Sorin Hall's chapel was beautifully re­decorated. 

30 Years Ago: 
Rules pertaining to the discipline of day students were drawn up by the Pre­fect of Discipline.... St. Joe Hall loomed large on the interhall football horizon... bicyclists were not allowed on the cement walks.... Walsh's feather weight foot­ball squad was made up entirely of prep students.... nightly checker tournaments in the Brownson rec.... bobsled rides to Niles.... English students engaged in ode contests for Founder's Day.... 300 uniformed cadets formed the University Battalion. . . . and their Military Ball was THE social event of the year. 
The varsity football team enjoyed an imdefeated season under Coach Marks... the Sorin rec should have been labelled "The Notre Dame Conservatory of Rag­time". .. . Corby men were the interhall football champions the minims fin­ished their tdooggan in time for the first snow.... ice cutters were at work on St. Joseph Lake filling the new ice­house. .. . "Old Sorin Pine" was cut down during Christmas vacation.... those wanting the benefit of an ocean trip for a nickel took the Hill street car from the post office to the cemetery. 
Senior Ball - subscriptions were $5.00 and the Junior Prom cost $2.00 and the hack.... Even with Rockne getting a first in the 440, shot-put, pole-vault, and high-hurdles Corby didn't get a passing mark in the track meet at Culver Mil­itary Academy.... full dress outfits for Senior Ball could be obtained from Wil­liam Donahue, Room 325 Sorin Hall, and at the news stand.... most conversation turned to Teddy Roosevelt's chance of 
re-election students returning late from Christmas vacation lost their per­mission to go home for Easter.... those returning late from Easter vacation were suspended for two weeks.... the surest sign of spring was the sight of every available diamond occupied during fee hours.... crews were organized for the Commencement reg:atta. . . . signs of school ending were: picnics.... cash at the bookstore "pull! pull!!" from the lake.... and "Say, have you time to look over my oration?" 

25 Years Ago: 
Chemistry hall burned the fresh­man had to pay a ten^ dollar natatorium fee and then buy a dictionary to find out what it meant Springbrook Park offered the height of hilarity.... Father Charles CDonnell promoted a poetry club to woo the muse.... increased regis­tration caused rooms to be fitted up on the third floor of Music Hall the dome was regilded.... fresh air fiends rejoiced over new cinder paths being laid around St. Joseph Lake.... 75 stu­dents from Brownson Hall enjoyed gen­eral permission for afternoons in con­sequence of their inability to score a single demerit during the quarter. 
Woodrow W41son was again inaugur­ated The Seholastie offered $10,000 for a song that Warren Cartier and By­ron Kanaley could sing.... Capt. George Gipp led the Freshman eleven.... Ad-ler's Athletic Store on the campus dis­played a remarkable collection of horse­hair fobs and hat bands made in a west-em penitentiary.... Notre Dame's foot­ball team, under Coach Jesse Harper and Assistant Coach Rockne, rolled off a rec­ord, with Army's 30 points being the only ones scored against them all season. 
Saturday night moving pictures in Washington Hall featured such cine­matography greats as Nat Goodwin, Dustin Famum, Doug Fairbanks, and Mary Pickfbrd, and the treat of the eve­ning was a two reel Keystone comedy.... a state of emergency was declared and we entered the first World War to make the world safe for democracy.... two new ^vings were added to St. Joseph's 
Hall Senior Ball was a dinner dance at the Oliver Hotel and with an orches­tra imported from Chicago, at war prices, no one objected to the staggering subscription sum of $7.00. 
It was announced that Seniors leaving the University for military service would receive their degrees in June without having to make up their classes.... one of the most popular debating subjects on the campus and throughout the country was prohibition. a record crowd of 60 couples attended the Sophomore Cotil­lion and a "Cinderella" dance was one of the high spots of the evening.... Notre Dame men were sailing for France 
Everyone was harmonizing on the song "Sweet Katinka." 
20 Years Ago: 
Enrollment became so large that beds were put in the Carroll rec. and in Sorin rec.... new rules forbade craps and foot­

. ball. pods.... the Oliver, t.hp Rlackstone,. and the Orpheum were the leading the­atres in the Bend the Hill Street car changed its name to Notre Dame.... ttie Villagers were most commonly called "day-dogs".... the Senior Ball commit­tee presented N. D. nights at the Black­stone theatre to raise extra funds for the big dance.... no matter how hard up, everyone conId find two-bits for a Juggler.... Rockne's grid men scored 375 points against tiieir <9p<menfs 41, being defeated only once, and then when Iowa won 10 to 7.... packages from home meant a turkey spread for Thanks­giving. 
The man who could sttnm a ukelele was the man of the hour.... the year's most important fashions were caps, sheepskin coats, bathing suits with or without skirts, and tight trouser cnfFs clearing the ground by a g^ood seven inches.... the oxford vogue was just taking hold Corby's campused formed a league of the triple K hock^ play­ers made novenas for a long cold winter while baseballers prayed for an early spring.... Walter CKeefe and Charles Butterworth were the most popular stu­dent performers in the Notre Dame Novelty Knights vaudeville show. 
The bitterest basketball feud existed betweoi the second floor Sorin engineers and the engineers of the Sorin sab; ref­erees found it necessary to call time out after each minute of play.... the best example of knock-down furniture was the Notre Dame ear.... the Sophomsie Cotillion was held in the South Bend Tn'&une Auditorium.... snappy was the favorite campus adjective.... the Oliver lobby was the favorite hangout.... movie favorites were Pola Negri, Rudolph Val­entino, Norma Tafanadge, Doris May, Wesley Barry, and Gloria Swanson.... the endowment campaign was driving toward a $1,000,000 goal. 


iO Years Ago: 

Alumni and Dillon hallers ranted and raved, but moved downtown for a few weeks until the halls were emnpleted... the lucky seniors ate in the caf.... 3A47 students complained of the high cost of books, the other 15 didn't buy any.... everyone was trying to get rid of after­noon classes.... the autobiography of Knute Rockne was released.... demoli­tion of the old engineering building was started.... due to the depression, cor­sages were barred from the Sophomore Cotillion. .. . Father Nieowland an­nounced the discovery of the componoit parts of synthetic rubber.... Will Rog­ers, Mayors Walker and Cermak, Father Matthew Walsh, Grantland Rice, Chick Meehan, and the Four Horsemen opened the' Rockne Memorial Drive with a na­tionwide radio program. 
There was a heavy gloom over the campus at exam time.... University Theater presented its mnch-talkedHaf epic, "Gold in the HiDs"... .Mink Melin­
(Contmncd on page 31) i 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 


> > All44fUii 

«*<>4*<'««*<'«<~KKKK~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~;~:-;­
AS AN ARMY CHAPLAIN stationed 

•^^ at Fort Kamehameha, Hawaii, Rev. Speer Strahan, '17, well-known Catholic poet and former professor of English at Catholic University, has given in his re­cent writings graphic descriptions of the Japanese attack. 
In his letter written to Most Rev. Peter L. Ireton, Coadjutor Bishop of Richmond, Va., which was a N.C.W.C. news release. Father Strahan told in­spiringly of his experiences in the field 
—^Photo by U. S. Army SiKnal Corps 
Rev. Speer Strahan, ' 17 

from Dec. 7 to Dec. 22, during and just after the Pearl Harbor raid. (Much of this letter appears in the 1917 column in this issue) 
His article entitled "Holy Communion in Hawaii" appearing in the Feb. 6, Commonweal was both absorbing and in­spiring. Hearing confessions on a rail­road track for an hour and a half, along a sea coast where men were building a bomb shelter, penetrating thickets where men were guarding gun positions; these are only part of the duties he describes. 
Father Strahan was bom at Fife Lake, Mich., on May 30,1894. One of the finest stiidcait poets ever to: grace the campus. 
he was grraduated with honors from No­tre Dame and was the class poet. He attended Holy Cross College for one year. He was graduated from Catholic University with the degree of Master of Arts in 1926, attended Yale University four years and the University of Paris one year. He became a priest and was an instructor in English at Catholic Uni­versity for five years. 
He was appointed a first lieutenant. Chaplain Reserve, on Feb. 4, 1937. Or­dered to active duty at Fort George G. Meade, Md., in Dec. 1, 1939, he was transferred in June of the following year to Fort Myer, Va., as chaplain. He was promoted to captain. Chaplain Reserve, on Sept. 18, 1941, and in the following month was assigned to duty in the Ha­waiian Islands. 
A LTHOUGH sUghtly wounded in ac­
• ^ tion in the Philippines on Jan. 1, Father John E. Duffy, '23, continues his duties as chief chaplain of Gen. Douglas MacArthur's forces. He was recently awarded the Purple Heart decoration for singularly meritorious action. Stories of his courage in accompanying his men in front line action were widely used in newspapers throughout the country. 
A friend of World War I's Rev. Fran­cis P. Duffy of the "Fighting 69th," Father John Duffy was known even be­fore the outbreak of present hostilities, as a builder of churches. In 1934, while stationed at Fort Stotsenburg, P. I., he found church facilities inadequate, and was personally responsible for the build­ing of several small churches near the fort. Later, faced with a similar prob­lem. Father Duffy built a chapel for the 
—^Photo by U..S. -\rmy Si^al Corps 

Rev. John E. Duffy. '23 

soldiers at Fort Devens, Mass., while sta­tioned there from 1937 until his return to the Philippines in 1940. 
Father Duffy is a native of Lafayette, Ind. He received his preparatory and college training at Notre Dame. His the­ology courses were at St. Mary's Sem­inary, Norwood, O., and he was ordained for the priesthood 14 years ago for the diocese of Toledo, 0. 
He became a first lieutenant. Chaplain, in the Officers Reserve Corps in 1933, going on active duty in October of that year. He accepted a commission in the Regulary Army as a first lieutenant, Corps of Chaplains, in November, 1933. In 1936 he was promoted to captain. 

John L Nanovic, '30 

JOHN L. NANOVIC, '30 made the se­** lections of the year's best detective stories in the recently published Detec­tive Story Annual for 19i2, which is re­ceiving great reviews. John is editor of 
The Shadow Magazine, Clues-Detective Stories and other mystery magazines published by Street and Smith, where he has been employed since graduation. 
John's liking for codes and crypto­grams resulted in numerous lectures and feature articles, and finally devel­oped into the publication of two books which are ranked as the best works and codes for the average fan. The first book, 
Secret Writing: How to Code arid De­code, contains all the elements of coding. The second. The Cryptogram, Book, gives the rudiments of working cryptograms and offers 60 working problems as a thorough training in the art. In addition to his work as editor of the magazines, John edits a series of books published by Street and Smith. 
By JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 

ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
Uncle Will Dooley, the big time and space man of the ALUMNUS, has told us again that the space is waiting (if the alumni aren't), but that time is fleeting and no-you-can't-wait-until-the-season-is­over to make your basketball report. 
So here we go with a few columns of "ifs." If Bobby Faught can collect four points in the remaining two games with Marquette and Detroit (he got 25 against Marquette before), he will move into the select 200-points-a-season class. The 6-foot 5-inch Cleveland Heights sophomore center has collected 196 points while leading the Fighting Irish to 15 victories in 20 starts to date. He had made 85 points in 12 games, an average of roughly seven a game, which gives you an idea of what he's been doing since. Four more points and he'd have an average of an even 10 points a game. In other words, he has made 111 points in the last eight starts, or 14 a game, doubling his output in keeping OTth the national trend. 
If Cy Singer, junior guard and John (Buster) Hiller, sophomore forward, can ring the bell in the remaining two games, they will rise from 84 and 81 points, respectively, to the 100-point class. John­ny Niemiera, soph forward with 132; Bob Rensberger, junior guard with 114; and Charlie Butler, junior forward ^vith 107, are already in that group. In any event, the Irish have proved their scoring balance. 
• If the team can make 41 points in two games—they are now averaging 48 a game—they will go into the 1,000 point a season class. They need 103 points in these two games to crack the modem record of 1,062 points made by last year's quintet in 22 games. 

The 1908 team made 1095 points in 29 games. The 1935-36 group collected 1,053 in 25 starts. The 1937-38 club got 1,016 in 23 games. 
As evidence of the changes the popu­lar winter pastime has undergone, a study of the defensive records is inter­esting. Opponents have made 819 points in 20 games to date. Last year's 22 op­ponents made 875 for a record, and it's practically a cinch that this year's team will have given up more points by March 13 than any other unit in Notre Dame history. Yet Coach George E. Keogan considers this one of the finest defensive clubs he has ever coached here. Elimina­tion of the center jump, popular use of the fast break, but most of all the popu­larity of the new shooting styles have made it impossible to keep scoring down where it once was. Two hand shots from over the shooter's head, development of accuracy with either hand, push and hook shots with one hand, and the gen­eral speed-up of the game have all con­tributed to the larger scoring totals. 
As it stands now Notre Dame has won 484 games and has lost 199. A defeat at the hands of either of the remaining opponents could bring the Irish to the 200-defeat mark. Northwestern addicts will say this point has already been reached since they still claim a victory where we claim a 20-all tie for that New Year's eve game of 1935. 
Want any more statistics? The Irish completed their January and February home schedules without defeat. They have not lost a collegiate home game since December of 1940 when Illinois came vnth. a rush to ^vipe out a nine-point lead and win. Great Lakes scored a 52 to 46 victory here last December, but the Naval squad is made up of form­er collegians, professionals, and semi­professionals. 
The Irish lost only one game in Janu­ary, to Butler at Indianapolis; and one game in February, to Michigan State at East Lansing. There have been only three January games lost in the last seven years. Only seven February games have been dropped in the same time. Playing approximately the same number of games in December, the Irish have lost 17 games in seven years in that month, which gives an idea of how Coach George E. Keogan's teams roll, once they get started. 
As so, with those same two games left to be played, the Irish have won 15 out of 20 and 12 out of the last 14. Up until the Michigan State game, they had eight wins in a row, but the Spartans took care of that situation, 46 to 43. 
This popular score, 46 to 43, however, figured prominently in the climax of the current season. It was by this margin that Notre Dame nosed out a rangy, smart, rugged Kentucky team, which went on to win the Southeastern confer­ence title. Two nights later, the Irish defeated Great Lakes by the same score at Chicago stadium, in a game that was just as vigorous and twice as satisfying in view of the Sailor's previous victory here. That was on Monday. The follow­ing Saturday, the Keogan entourage moved into New York and took care of 
N. Y. U., 55 to 43, as Faught scored 26 points to set a Notre Dame single game record and a Madison Square Garden record. He shot 20 times and made 10 baskets adding six free throws. 
The Irish then hit their season's scor­ing peak with 70 points to 39 against Western Reserve, as the Red Cats tried to guard them all over the floor and were lashed to the mast by Notre Dame's speed. Butler fell, 57 to 54, in a revenge game which saw the Bulldogs score more points than any other opponent this year, more than Butler had ever made in defeat in the Notre Dame series and as many as the Bulldogs had ever made against the Irish. Notre Dame, mean­while, was setting a series record. 
Michigan State, which had fallen, 52 to 49, here, won, 46 to 43 there, as re­ported. Considering that Coach Eeogan rates the difference between the home floor and the visiting floor at something around ten points, and considering that the Spartans were outscored from the floor but won when there were 22 fouls called on Notre Dame and nine on them. Assistant Coach Ray Meyer, who was in charge, is to be congratulated on keeping it that close. 
Meyer, it might be mentioned, distin­guished himself on other occasions dur­ing the season, particularly at the North­western game at Evanston when the un­defeated Purple fell, 40 to 36, before the inspired Irish. It was Notre Dame's first victory in the last four starts at Evans­ton. It was also the first defeat of the year for the 'Cats. 
Even at Butler, where Notre Dame has now been beaten three years in a row, Meyer set up a second half defense for Wilbur Schumacher which held the Bull­dog ace to one field goal, and brought the Irish from an original 11 to one deficit up to a 49 to 43 defeat. Schumacher made 16 the first half and 21 for the evening. At Notre Dame he made 23 points, although he had lost some time with a sprained shoulder, which was 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
heavily taped in the South Bend game. 
We'd like at this time to repeat last month's plug for Frank Quinn, senior center from Indianapolis, whose effect­ivaiess has been somewhat overshadowed by Faught's great offensive ability. Against Great Lakes, particularly, when the astute Sailors tied Faught up, hold­ing him to four points, did Quinn sparkle. Within earshot of Bob Caliban, high-scoring Sailor center, he assured Coach Eeogan that "111 take Caliban in the second half." And take him he did, holding him to two points. EfBe collected seven points himself against Great Lakes. 
We'd also like to single out Francis Curran, a scrappy, skinny sophomore forward from Sterling, 111., who gives 'em jitters with his monkey-on-a-stick defensive talents, and also pops those long shots when they coimt. Orlando Bonicelli, soph guard, has his good and bad nights, but he's a streak when he's working right. Ray Kuka, another huski­er sophomore guard, is not such hot potatoes at getting points, but his ball-handling and ability to control rebounds have been major factors in the success of the team. Finally, a nod to Capt. Art Pope who, although he has played in only 15 of the 20 games, and sparingly at tliat, has had tiie perfect attitude toward his lot. A fine leader and the hardest worker on the squad, he has taken the responsibility of the captaincy to heart, and he has never acted or spoken except for the good of the team. 
• TRACK 
Two victories in three starts is the record of Coach Bill Mahoney's squad to date, with the indoor Centrals and the Butler relays to come. Marquette fell, 71 to 33, and later conquered Wisconsin. Illinois was beaten, 57 1/3 to 41 2/3 and later lost to Ohio State by only a. 10-point marg^in—^the difference between winning or losing the mile relay. Mich­igan, favored to win the Big Ten meet and the Butler relays, if Ohio State doesnt, won a 58 to 46 decision at Ann Arbor. 
The Irish won eight of the 11 events against Marquette, although Keith O'Bourke was tying for first in the Mill-rose games in New York, and the mile relay team was taking second to Ford­ham in the same meet. Bill Dillon, jimior from Harbor City, Calif., set a gym and meet record of seven seconds flat in the 60-yard lows. Jim Delaney estab­lished a meet mark of 50 feet 6% inches in the shot put. 
The Illinois meet also saw several marks' established, five meet records, to be exact, and fliree of them by Notre Dame. Bob Bebbers of the niini, one of the most promising sophomores in Mid­western annals, set meet standards of 
1:57.2 in the 880 and 4:18.4 in the mile. George Schiewe of the Irish beat Capt Ray Roy and set a meet record of 49.9 for the quarter-mile. Ollie Hunter, third in the mile, came back to win tiie- two-mile in his best time to date, 9:22. De­laney, an automatic first place in most meets, set a record of 49 feet 3% inches in the shot put. The mini forfeited the mile relay, and no points were awarded for this event. 
The Michigan meet is a story of the Irish not being "hot," and losing all the close ones. The judges were honest— don't get us wrong. The relay team was beaten after the outcome of the meet had been decided. This swing of ten points, five gained for the Wolverines and five lost for the Irish, merely wid­ened the margin of defeat. 
Consider, though, that Jay Gibson was nipped by less than a foot for second in the dash, that Bill Dillon, who won the lows, got the best start in the highs and was beaten by a lunge at the tape by Frank McCarthy of Michigan, high point man with 14 points; that Bob Ufer of Michigan turned in one of the greatest indoor performances of all time to win the 440 in 49.2; that Tony Maloney who had breezed through the mile and a half in 6:58 in practice, was laboring hard in 
7:15 at that point in the two-mile, aiid didn't place; McCarthy made the best high jimip of his career to tie O'Ronrke at 6 ft. 3% ins.; that Jack Wiethoff was over the bar in the pole vault twice at 13 feet, but brushed it off with his elbow to tie with Segula of Michigan; and that Wally Ziemba was beaten by Ostroot of Michigan by a quarter of an inch for second place in the shot put— and you get an idea of how things failed to add up for the Irish. Just a slight break anywhere along the line would have given them something better than the 53 to 46 deficit they had as the mile relay was run. 
Michigan was set, pointed perfectly for this meet, and deserved to win it. Coach Mahoney told his squad afterward that they were beaten "by a team not as good as you are, which is what makes it hard to take. Some of you," he said, "are better competitors than others. All I ask is that all of you try to improve. Remember, we'll have another chance in the Butler relays." Whether the Irish can break Michigan's string of eight straight victories at Butler.remains to be seen, but you can be certain that the Irish will be set for this one. 
Delaney distinguished himself with third place behind Al Blozis' world rec­ord in the National A.A.U. meet in New York, while John Smith, freshman hurd­ler from Park Ridge, HI., was a good third to Fred Wollcott and Charles (Whitey) Hlad in the 60-yard lows, as well as fourth in the 60-yard highs in the same meet O'Rourke, with the worst night he's had in a Notre Dame uniform, could not do better than 6 feet 2 inches and he did not place. 
It is also worth reporting here that the Irish freshmen entered the Indiana-Kentucky A.A.U. meet at Lafayette, Ind., running unattached, recently and took the team title. Not only that, but the Irish frosh scored more points than the Purdue varsity, which, with the strength of this year's group concentrated in its juniors, promises great things for next season. ­
• FENCING 
Four and two is the record, with two hard ones left for Coach Walter. M. Langford's swordsmai. The boys have done everything backwards this year, in a sense, but everj^thing has come out all right. A shortage of the imported steel needed for epee blades, for example, caused the boys to forgo practice in this event, but they won the epee in five of the first six matches. Then, leading Ohio State, 10 to 8, they finally were defeated 6% to 2% in their favorite event. 
Inexperienced and lacking veterans, they started with four straight victories over Michigan State, 14 to 13; Purdue, 16 to 11, Cincinnati, 11 to 6, and Illinois, 14 to 13. Having proved their ability to cometiirougfa imder pressure with great epee victories for the deciding iioints of the IGehigan State and Illinois matches, they were nosed out at Chicago, 15 to 12. The Maroons were fortunate enough to win the deciding fifth point in all seven bouts in foil and sabre that came down to four-all. In one of these, Notre Dame had a lead, 4 to 1. 
Matches remained, at this writing, with Wisconsin at Madison and Mar­quette at Milwaukee. The Hilltoppers, who beat Wisconsin by two points, are rated unusually strong this season. 
Next month's issue will carry final season's statistics, and through the cour­tesy of Prof Langford, adequate indi­vidual records and statistics. 
THANKS 
The Student Commission wishes to'acknowledge donations sent in by alumni to help defray the ex­pense of mailing the Seholastie to Notre Dame men in the armed forces. The expense now amounts to approximately $60 an issue. 

Prof. Brown's Space-Time 

Notre Dame System Retained 
Recorder 

By Frank W. Leahy, '31 
A simplified space-time recorder of Director of Athletics and Head Football Coach greatly increased speed and eflteienejr is 
Judging from our mail of late, a good many of yon are concerned over reports that we have decided to "scrap" the Notre Dame system in 1942 and to em­ploy the T-formation with which the Chicago Bears and Stanford, notably, rose to the heights during the past two seasons. 
We have no argument with the news­paper writers, nor are we going to say we were misquoted. The fault in the published reports lay not so much in what they said as in what they neglected to say. To put the matter briefly and clearly, we do plan to use a different T than we used here last year and the two preceding years at Boston College. We do plan to use the old style that Stanford used so effectively. And we al­so plan to hang on to the tried and true Notre Dame shift. In going to the so-called Stanford T, we are not changing from the Rockne system—we are merely going back to what he liked years ago. 
We were disturbed at these reports that we were dropping the Notre Dame system, for this would not be true even if we did discard the shift. As most of yon know fuU well, the familiar shift always staited from T-formation. And before the shift was put in by Jesse Harper and Knute Rockne, Notre Dame's basic formation was the T-formation. After the shift was used extensively, many plays were still run from the T. So, whfle we hope to add new plays and refinements, we are, in effect, taking a step backward. 
And why are we doing this? Simply because it seems to the coaching staff that our material of 1942 lends itself particnlarly well to this much-discussed formation. Angelo Bertelli, whose excel­lent passing earned him one of the fin­est records of any sophomore in the history of the game last year, was never a very strong runner. His fine hands and excellent coordination make it likely that he will be just as good a passer in 1942 as in 1941, and that he will make a fine ball-handler in the quarterback ^>ot He, we hope, will be the Franlde Albert of this year's team. In his new position, we believe he will be less susceptible to in­jury than if he were called upon to do a lot of ball-carrying. 
We hope to add to our running game, which was necessarily neglected to some extent last year, by moving Dippy Evans back to left halfback from fullback, and Creighton Miller from fullback to right halfback. The fullback problem will be ironed out when spring practice gets under way. 
It seems to us that, our material being what it is, an experiment with T-forma­tion in spring practice will certainly be in order. If our experiment should be suc­cessful, and should we decide to go along for a year or so without the shift, we do not feel that this would constitute any condemnation of the shift. It would simply mean that our material is better fitted to the T-formation. 
Reports that we are discarding the shift before the opening of spring drills are certainly premature. We would be silly to throw out a system of play en­tirely after it has proved its effectiveness for more than 20 years, and after it has worked well for us for three years. 
We made several lineup changes last year which, because of the zeal of the boys to make good in their new posts, worked out surprisingly well. Bemie Crimmins, who had played right half and fullback, made all-American guard. Wal­ly Ziemba, a former tackle, received considerable all - American mention at center. Dippy Evans, a left halfback, was our leading ground gainer at full­back. Harry Wright, a fullback, made the first team at quarterback. Our only aim was to get our best 11 men into the lineup and on the field at the same time. 
We hope to be able to do the same thing this year. Accordin^y, with the quarterback's duties subject to change somewhat in the T-formation offensive, Harry Wright will be tried at right guard. Bob Dove, who made ail-Amer­ican at left end, will nevertheless be tried at left guard. Both of these men are fine blockers and rugged defensive players. They have the speed it takes to get out in front of the ball-carriers, and we believe they will make excellent guards. 
It will not be until the end of spring practice that we have a real idea, how­ever, of how our material will rank it­self, or how the T-formation will go. No doubt our spring drills will look pretfy~ ragged, as we try to change from one T to another. And don't be surprised if your team looks pretty ragged more than once as it tries to cope with Georgia Tech, Stanford, Wisconsin, Illinois, Na­vy, Army, BCchigan, Northwestern, and Southern California. 
the latest engineering research project to be completed here, designed and devel­oped hy Prof. Frank N. H. Brown, head of the University aeronautical engineer­ing department. 
Prof. Brown gave full particulars of his experiments in this field firom 1936 to 1941 in a lecture to the tenth annual meeting of the Institute of the Aero­nautical Sdoiees held at Columbia Uni­versity, New York City, recentiy. 
Prof. Brown's recorder is a five-foot long, esmetartype box which nses a pho­tographic principle to record movemoit in graph form enabling the operator to compute accurately the time involved. 
This type of space-time recorder was developed by Prof. Brown to test landing gear reactions in aeronautics. However, it may also be used in recording ttie movement of practically any «>bject, such as a drop-hammer, or any oscillating object or device. 
The recorder is provided with a 20­inch lens which may be racked in or out to provide scales from one-tenth to one-half size. Ordinary fiash-lij^t bulbs at­tached to the moving object record move­ment on a photo-sensitive paper mounted on a revolving drum in the rear of tfiie camera. Between the driun and the lens is a shutter which is geared to provide 14,400 interruptions per minute on the graph. 
Each of these interruptions r^resents l-240th part of a second. Thus the gnqih on the sensitized paper shows the irrcgo­larity in the movement of the object di­rectiy in relation to the time involved. This is not a picture in the ordinary sense of the term, but a record of more­ment involving comparatively small per­iods of space and time, as the partieolar experimoit may require. 
In contrast with other types of re­corders. Prof. Brown's invention is ex­tremely variable and may be adapted to any particular purpose. It may be used any place that space-time record is de­sired, under any existing natural UgtA conditions. Furtiiermore, it is relativdjr inexpensive, and cuts one-third of the over-all time ordinarily required for tak­ing a space-time record. 
The most recent of the two reewdets 

developed by. Prof. Brown is noir in 
actual use in the airplane landing gear 
oigineering d^artment of the Bendiz 
Aviation Corporation. The other is in tte 
University of Midiigan aenmautieal «n­.gineering laboratories.­
the Senior Class attended Washington Day exercises in historic Washington By William E. Scanlan, '42 haU.... Class President James O'Neal, 
STUDENT NOTES 
WAR CHARITIES CARNIVAL The recent Notre Dame War Charities Carnival, precedent-shattering as well as eminently successful, netted almost $2,000. Says a report of the Carnival commit­tee: ".... the cooperation we received from our students was nothing short of amazing. It was their affair in every sense of the word. And because of this enthusiasm, we see no reason why we should not have a much better carnival sometime next year. "The Red Cross is undoubtedly the largest and most widespread of war charity organizations. Accordingly, we have given to it ?1,000, a sum which rep­resents the largest share of the proceeds. The remaining $960 has been appor­tioned among several other charities; the Army and Navy War Relief, (to which Notre Dame has already contributed the proceeds of two basketball games), $100; the Infantile Paralysis Fimd, $100; to Father Lynch's war work among Notre Dame men in the service, $400; to the Gibault Home, ?200; and to the Notre Dame chaplains' fund, $160." 
FOR WAR CHARITIES Coach Frank Leahy, a patron of the Hono£;ram club booth, won, of all things, an autographed football — which had Frank Leahy's name on it Then there was the booth that paid off only to priests and brothers for the first two hours on the Friday of the three-night 
•how in the gym Since the affair ended on St. Valentine's Day, a dance became a part of the festival—and at the Rockne Memorial, first campus dance other than a Senior Ball to be staged there. 
• 

BALL ON APRIL 24 Chairman Larry Kelley of San Ma­rino, Calif., announced that the Senior Ball had been moved ahead to April 24. .... Donald McNally, Winnetka, lU., co-chairman of the Ball Music committee, 
left school in the midst of dickerings with several name bands to join the Army Air Corps His duties are now 
being handled fully by Thomas Walker of New' York City, son of Postmaster General Frank C. Walker, '09. 
616 REGISTER FOR DRAFT Campus registration facilities at Dil­lon, St. Edward's, Howard and Lyons .halls and at the Pr^ect of Discipline's oflSee accounted for 616 N. D. men regis­
tering for Selective Service on Feb. 16. 
Of the 616 total, 76 were religions, 
25 were instructors or other employees 
on the campus, and 515 were students.... 
Rationing hit home on the campus when 
the Huddle and the Cafeteria, twin col­
ters of social life on the campus, an­
nounced one-third reductions in the 
numbers of cokes available.... And the 
Caf began rationing butter—no more 
than two slabs per person, imless smug­
gled across from another table. 
BENGAL BOUTS—ST. PAT'S DAY 
A typical "Fighting Irish" day, March 
17, provides the setting for the inaugural 

of the 11th annual Bengal Bouts, spon­
sored again by the SCHOLASTIC The 
early entry list of Boxing Instructor 
Dominick Napolitano numbered 68 
Preliminaries in the gym are scheduled 
for March 17-18-19 with the champion­
ships carded March 21 Efforts are 
imder way to have World Middleweight 
Champion Tony Zale on Hand at the 
finals, if military service doesn't prevent 
Major dilemma of the tournament 

fell to Dan Canale, Memphis, Tenn., 
senior and tennis captain He won the 
127-pound title a year ago but gained 
so much weight he cannot defend the 
crown and now seeks the 135 or 145­
pound championship. 
YOUNGEST GRAND KNIGHT 
Believed to be the youngest grand 

knight in Knights of Columbus councils 
of the United States is Edward Reidy, 
Lorain, C, leader of the Notre Dame 
Council 1477.... Reidy took office at the 
age of 20.... He and James Fayette, 
Burlington, Vt., directed the highly-
successful War Charities Carnival 
Paul Eashmer, LaPorte, Ind., chairmans 
the K. C. BaU on April 10—^an event pushed ahead to accommodate the Senior Ball. 
BRUTZ - HERKY: JOURNALISTS Surprise literary development of the year was the appearance in the SCHO­LASTIC of a humor-comment column writ­ten by Jim Brutz, Niles, O.'s gift to Notre Dame and the 1941 team's Most Valuable Player, and Hercules Bereolos, Hammond, Ind., muscular guard and shot-putter. 
SENIORS PRESENT FLAG At the 97th annual observance of AVashington's Birthdayj the members of 
St. Louis, presented the flag in tiie name of Hie seniors and the Rev. Hugh O'Dcm­nell, C.S.C., University president, and Captain Dewitt Carr, executive officer at Great Lakes, 111. Training Station, col­laborated with Bernard Marbach, White Plains, N. Y., class orator, on the speak­ing program.... Captain Carr filled in for Rear Admiral John Downes of Great Lakes who was iH. 
• RECEIVE R.O.T.C. MEDALS Three cadet officers of the Naval ROTC unit of the University—received the Chicago Tribune medals for military excellence in a colorful ceremony at the Rockne Memorial on Feb. 17.... Father O'Donnell made presentations to Charles Urruela, Miami Beach, Fla., gold; Rob­ert L. Bobbett, St. Louis, bronze; and 
D. Coyne Callaghan Chicago, silver.... Urruela had no previous military train­ing before enrolling at Notre Dame.... Medals were awarded on the basis of all-around mSitary excellence, scholastic ability, character and knowledge of mil­itary science. 
• 

POWERS HEADS SCHOLASTIC Thomas V. Powers, senior from Enid, Okla., and brother of Jimmy Powers, sports editor of the New York Daily News, recently became editor of the Sekolastic when the former leader, John Reilly of Dorchester, Mass., was called into military service.... The Seholaslic will be published throughout the summer senester.... Scrip, literary quarterly, and the Dome, formerly a yearbook, are ei^ected to be published once each se­mester, the latter in much reduced form. • 
WINS ORATORICAL HONORS William Connelly, C.S.C, from Moreau Saninary and Boston, won the Breoi medal for oratory—^the third year in a row that a Moreau Seminary student has captured the honor.... John Morrison, Indianaiwlis, placed second and Daniel Morgan, Beverly Hills, Calif., finished third. 
• BACK TO THE LAND Advocating The Catholic Rural life Movement, aimed at simplifying, slow­ing down, and making more substantial the social and family lives of Americans, Prof. Willis D. Nutting, spoke March .2, as guest at the fourth in the series of student-professor meetings being held every Monday night in the Rockne Man­orial Lounge. The guest speakers already indnde T. Bowyer Campbell, history; D. -C. O'Grady, philosophy; and E. A. Smith, business administration. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus
ADDITIONAL MILITARY MEN 
(Including names received up to Feb. 28) 
Pre-Law Cut to FourSemesteis 
New Plan is in Keeping With a National Trend. 

Students who have completed four se­mesters of acceptable college work will be admitted to the College of Law of the University. 
This announcQoent, made March 3 I^ the University Council, reduces the re­quirement for entrance by two semesters, and will permit students to complete work for the LL.B. in ten semesters. 
The plan. Dean Claroice E. Hanion states, is in keeping with traida in other leading law schools, and the new en-, trance requirement conforms to the re-> quironents of the majority of American law schools. Speed-up is the government's order of the day for education, and the new move, together with Notre Dame's accelerated acadenie year, makes it pos­sible for a qualified hi ^ school graduate to complete his 1^ ^ edueatiom within three and a third calendar years or be­fore many reach the age they became eligible for military service. 
And, Dean Manion points out, the new program still requires six sonesters of training in the professional field, the same acadonie content as before, redue^ tion coming in the general education phase of pre-law. 
Notre Dame's combination courses, in­volving degrees in arts and letters and in commerce as well as tiie law d^ree, will still require 12 semesters. The first degree will be awarded at the end of the 10th semester. This combined program, with two degrees is possible in four calendar years under the three semester year. 
Notre Dame's Coll^^ of Law, the old-, est Catholic law college in the United. States, was influenced in its decisiion to reduce its entrance requirement for the duration of the war only, by government, suggestion, service to students and the rising conviction of the need for religion in education, particularly the return to. a spiritual basis for American jurispru­doice as indicated in many .recent writ-, ings and lectures, such as those of Dean. Roscoe Pound and Kaoul Desvemines on. the campus. 
Armiiictan, Frederick W., ex. '36, Lieutenant. Fleet Harine Force. Second Div. Hdqs. 2, Go, 8, Camp Elliot, San Diego, Calif. 
Bannon, FatridE J., '40, Army. Bonfield, George J.. '37, Army, St. Louis. Benedict, Mlrhiel S., ex. '41, Corporal, Battery B, 
176th Held ArUllery. Ft. Heade, Baltimore, Hd. Bond, Ihomai D., '38, Battery B, G.A.T.B.. Camp Wallace, Tex. Bordeaax. Jerome E., '41, Army Air Corps, Gun­ter Field. Montgomery, Ala. Brady, Wade J., '41, Navy Air Cadet, Fensacola, Fla. 
Bragger, James J., '41, Headquarters Special Troop, Army Air Base, MacDill Held, Tampa, Fla. 
Callahan, Joseph, '38, 1st lieutenant, Hq. Co., 2nd Armored Division, Fort Benning, Ga. Cintron, Lois G., ex. '44, Chanute Field, Kantoul, III. Colbert. Edirard L., '41, Co. A, 1st Engineer Bat­taUon, E.R.T.G., Fort Belvoir, Va. Crwnley, Thomas F., ex. '40, Battery Hdq., 9th Battalion, Fort Eustis, Va. 
Dempiey, James F., ex. '40, Naval Aviation Fli^ t Training, U. S. Naval Aviation Resenie Base, Floyd Bennett Held. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
DaCy, Robert K., '37, Ensign, Naval Reserve, V. 
S. Navy, Torpedo Station, Newport, K. I. 

Dnnhara, William J., '41, IT. S. Coast Guard Sta­tion, Manhattan Beach, Co. E, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Brans, Albert J., ex. '42, Battery C, 10th Bn., Fort Eustis, Va. 
Fisher, Donald W., '38, 13th Armored Regiment, Ist Armored Div., Fort Knox, Ky. Fitxpatridl. John J., Jr., '37, Ensign, U. S. Naval Reserve.' Foley, William R., Jr., '37, Army Intelligence, Governor's Island, N. Y. 
Grcssly, Dr. Donald W., ex. '30, Higfat Surgeon, 
U. S. Navy, Naval Air Station. Fensacola. Fla. Grobmyer. John C, '41, Cadet, (Completed pre-^ 
flight training at Air Corps Repl. Tr. Center, Kelly Held, Tex.). 

Hawcs, WiUam R., '41, Naval Intelligence. Wash­ington. D. C. 
Henry, Boser H., ex. '44, (Left Air Corps Bepl. Tr. Center, Kelly Held, Tex., to begin flight training.) 
Kiefer. Eugene Peter, '40, Aeronautical Engineer. Materials Division, Army Air Corps, Wright Held, Dayton, O. 
Leonard, Robert J., '41, Wright Held. Dayton. O. 
Hdlonnell, George J.. '29, M.D., 1st Lieutenant, Army Medical Corps. McGroder. Francis J., Jr., '41, Sgt. 40th Material Squadron, Morris Held, Charlotte, N. C. McGec, William, '28, M.D., Captain. Army Medical Corps. 
McLaaghlin, Harry F., ex. '41, 2nd lieutenant. 42nd Bombardment, 75th Squadron, Portland Air Base, Portland, Ore. 
McLaaghlin, Lawrence G., '41, Barrack C, Flight 
A. Jones Held, Bonham. Tex. 

HcMorrow, George J., '40, 412th Signal Co., Mae-Dill Held, Tampa, Ha. 
Mizerski, Richard C., '40. Aviation Cadet, V. S. Air Corps, Air Corps Pilot Replacement Center, Sec. No. 2, Higjit F., San Antonio, Tex. 
Mohardt, John B.. '22, MJ>., Major, Army Medical Corps, Camp Custer, Mich. Monacelli, Albert H., '34, 2nd Uentenant, Quai^ termaster Corps, Pine Camp, N. Y. Monteverde, John P., '38, 3rd Bn., Camp Wheeler Ga. MoUen, Paol J., Jr„ '40, Cadet, U. S. Naval Re­serve, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Mulligan, Thomas P., '38, Bancroft Hall, Room 4160, U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Hd. (Naval Reserve Midshipmen's Training School, Annapolis.) 
Nester, Thomas, ex. '14, major, Hdqs., 7th Bat­talion, AFRTC, Fort Knox, Ky. 
O'Connor, Wayne J., ex. '43, completed pilot-train­ing course at Randolph Held, Tex. O'Neil, John W., '34, lieutenant. Company D, 87th Q. M. Bn., Fort Leonard Wood. Mo. O'Hara, James F., '37, Sgt. Instructor, Quarter­master School, Fort Warren, Cheyenne, Wyo. 
Patterson, John W., Jr., '41, Co. C, 4th Tmg. Bn., 3rd Intelligence Platoon, Camp Wheeler, Ga. Powers, John J., ex. '40, lieutenant, in EnEnneer Corps, U. S. Army. Powers, John S., '41, completed pilot-training course at Randolph Held, Tex. Peek, Lonis P., ex. '43, lieutenant, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. Prendergast, William B., '37, Battery B, 2nd Bn., C.A.R.T.C., 4th Platoon, Fort Eustis, Va. 
' Reed. George D., '41, Btry. B, 2nd F. A. Observa­tion Bn,, Camp Bowie, Tex. 
Robison, William R., '33, lieutenant. Ordnance Corps, Naval Training School, Fort Schuyler, Bronx, N. Y. 
Scfaiappacassc, Paul J., '41, 5th Signal Co., Cainp Custer, Mich. Seifert, Otto J., Jr., ex. '43, Barracks 17-16, U. S. Naval Air Station, Corpus Christi, Tex. Sievcrt, John W., '41. Battery C, 55th Bn.. Coast Artillery, Barrack 1412, Camp Callan, Calif. Stapkton, Charles D., '41, Ariny. Stcffen, Walter C, M-A.. '40. 1st lieutenant. In­fantry Reserve, Fort Benning, Ga. 
Teders, Michael V., '31, U. S. Naval Training School, Toledo, O.. (Storekeeper, 3rd Class, Ships's Company.) 
Thomas, Charles H., '40, U. S. Naval Reserve Av­iation Base, Atlanta, Ga. 
Vergara, Victor, J., '40, Bomber pilot, Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md. 
Walsh, Myles J., '40, Maxwell Held. Ala. Weigand. Thomas H., '38, Sergeant, Co. B.. A.F.S.D., Fort Knox, Ky. Wolf. Louis A., '41, Naval Intelligence, 1239 New Hampshire, N. W.. Washington, D. O. Wripe, James D., '41, Battery B, 146th Regiment, 
F. A.. A.P.O. 41, Tacoma, Wash. 

a <i

ALUMNI CLUBS 
CLEVELAND Jerome G. Beidy, *30, 17109 Detroit Ave., Lakewaod, O^ Pres.; Frands ilL Payne, Jr., MO, 1M6 Cariyon Rd., E. Cleveland. Sec 
Hiis column has been pilotless for the past two issues due to Secretary Bad Raddatz acquiring a domicile In California and his successor, Jim Byrne, joining the Marines. 
The current hig: news is Don Miller's recent ^ipointment as U. S. District Attorney for north-em Ohio. Gathered at the testimonial dinner in his honor at the HoIIendon was one of the largest groups of political and sports figures seen in Cleveland for some time. 
Assisting in honoring Don were Rev. John CaTUia«cfa, G.S.C., vice-president of the Univer­sity, Congressman Vincent F. Harrington, of Iowa, and Ail-Americans Elmer Layden, Jim Crowley, and Harry StaUdreher. Among those present were: John P. Morphy, of the Notre Dame Board of Trastees, Frank Celebrezze, Father Bficfaael Hbriarty, Dan Dnffy* and his law partner. Coun­cilman John Gleason* Jerry Miller, Clayt Xjeronx, Prexy Jerty Reidy, Stan Cofall, Al Grisanti. Jade Flynn, Chndc Rohr, Joe Gavin, Doc Hieman, Pat Canny, Tom Byrne, Howard Richards, Joe Sweeny, 
John Botler, Bodcy Dahman. Blarty Bini, Boger Brennan, and Doc Presti, Among out-of-towners who appeared were Walter BGUer, Chili Walsh, coadi of the Chicago Cardinal pro team, and Bay Eichenlaah. 
Frank Celebrezze, formerly judge of the muni­cipal court and late of the prosecutor's ofiTice. is now in the mayor's cabinet as director of public property'. And Blarty Bini has been appointed assistant city law director. All Notre Damers will hail these appointments. 
Ed. Gowgh was front page news for his alertness in apprehending a fugitive bank embezzler with $14,000, at the Central National Bank on Feb. 19. 
Our formal Christmas dance at the Statler was a great social and finRnrinl success. Much praise is due to oo-chairmen Bob Horrissey and Tom Malligan and to committeemen Jerry Beidy. Ed Sdu«eter, Jeny Hammer, Bob Lamb and Bob StadL Some of the young club members seen at the dance were: Bab Dowd, John Hillenbrand, Jim Danliam, Hago Hildcbrandt. Bob Grisanti, Bob McLaagUin, Tony Lavelle, with fiancee Dolores Menk. Jim Begky. Val Deale, Peter Shedum, Jae Halilgan, BiQ Kelleber, BiB Florence, Jshniiy Fnacies, Vic Gulyassy, Cfaudc Zegiob and DidcKdIy. 
In the way of'blessed eventing, the Ed Blatts Import not one b^ y but twins; Chock Bohr is the probd father of a baby girl; Bob Batler, a boy; Hagh Ball, a boy; and Bob Rothadcer, a boy. (Bob is at Bepublic Steel in Massillon). 
A recent groom is Harry Black, who was mar­ried on FA, 14, and now resides in Akron. Art Cellehfr was married to Ethel Murphy on Ibanks­^ving Day. Dkk ^dly, of Lorain, is married. Hairac4 MQbr is married, but is hack in the Army by zeeall of the "28's." Jack Collins was likewise recalled by the Army. 
Teas IblUgaH is in the Naval Reserve, training for an ensgn's commission. George Besdi and Jim Daaham have joined the Marines. Jos Sotak. at last report, was in an experimental balloon observation corps. 

The 1940 - 1941 Alumni Board 
Host Rev. John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, DJ)., New York City Honorary President Harry F. Kelly, 17, Detroit and Lanamr, WA. . .President Frederick T. Mahaffey, '17, IndianMKtUa, huL . .....First Viee-Preaident Alfonso A. Scott, '22, Los Angdea, Galifl JSeeoitd Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dam^ Ind.. ..Seeretary-Treaaurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind. — ..Assistant Seeretary Edward F. OToole, '25, Chicago, HL Direetor to 19it John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich. Direetor to 19*3 William J. Hooney, Jr., '15, Indianapolis, Lid. Direetor to 19U Rev. Michael L. Horiarty, '10, Mentor, Ohio _ Direetor to 194S 
Ray J. Eichenlanb, '15, Colnmbns, Ohio . 
Ray Miller, Democratic county cliairman, is vacationing in Florida. John Gallacher ia much in evidence around town. Doe Crawford can be found at iiome preoccupied by bis two sons. Georffe Kozak has moved into his newly-built home in Chagrin Falls. Al Grisanti is enthusi­astically worldne on K. of C. track meet plans and expects to present Greff Rice, as well as a Notre Dame relay team. Johnny Frandes has opened a mu^c store (radios, victrolas. records) on Detroit Avenue in Lalcewood. Jchn Payne is at Moreau Seminary studying to be a Holy Cross Father. 
Karl Blarterstick has done a great job as chair­man of the two Notre Dame retreats held at St. Stanislaus Betreat House. 
Notre Damers are much in the news at Western Reserve University's sradoate schools. F^om. the law school Ned BCahoney. of Canton, was srado­ated at mid-year and successftdly negotiated the January state bar exam. Val Deale is e£tor-in­chief of "Western Eeserve Law Notes," an inno­vation amonsr law school publications. And Boh Grisanti has been named to the editorial board. At medical sdiool studying to be fntnre X. D.'s are John Hillenbrand, Boh Bohinette, Boh Bryan and Boh Demeter. 
John Flynn and Jerry Miller have been named co-chairm«i for the Bockne Mass at St. land's Shrine on March 26. 
It is with reffret and sympathy that I resiort the deaths of the mothers of Gcorcc Kcrrer and Charles Bohr. 
Frank Payne 
CINCINNATI Bicfcard H. Shieb, ex. '33, 1151 Gcat St., Pres.; Walter J. Nicnaher, '37, 155S BKia­beth Place, Sec 
The following officers were elected for 1942 at the regular monthly dinner meeting at the Kemper X^ne Hotel on Feb. 3: 
President, Bichard Shiels, ex. *33; vioe^resident, Frank Brocman, ex. '35; secretary. Waller NleiH aher, '37; treasurer, John Cottinchaa, '38. 
Retiring president Joe Kinneaiy was unanimous­ly dected to the boud of trustees. AmouM thoae present at the meeting were Jay ftainssa, Beh Bonkamp, Dwight and Frank Bieiwia, Al Ga^ tcUini. Jehn Cattfaigham, Harry Cnuakr* PMHI Janaan. Jee Kianeary, Hal Katte, Joe 
...Ex-Offieio Direetor to lf4» 
Ed McHngh, Joe Morrissey, Walt Nienabcr, Bert Scfaloemer, and Didc Shiels. 
Hr. end Mrs. Matt Tbemn announce tlie birth of a daughter. In the Army are Tom Cmmley, Battery Hdq., 9th Battalion. Fort Eustis. Va.. Bab Leonard, Wright Field. Dasrton, O., and Joe Moorman, Array Air Corps. 
The Rev. John King Hossio, H.A. '25. has been appointed chancellor of the Archdiocese of Cin­cinnati with offices at the Chancery. 
CHICAGO Mtm r. CUtfc. 'SS. 47U Waddwtm St., Cticai*. Pica.: FranUyn E. Daao, 't», 314 ITIh 8C. WUmette, lO. Sec 
Chairmaned by John W. Dorian, the annual meeting of delegates was held at the Knicker­bocker Hotel on Dec. 13. Tbirteen delegates were present. 
The delegates came up with the recommendation that the following ofificers be named; John F. Clark, president; J. Barry O'Kecfe. first vice~ president; WilUam P. Kearney, second vice-presi­dent; FranUyn E. Doan. secretary, and WiOiaai SteinkeBper, treasurer. Nominated for three-year terms as governors were Joseph T. Dorgan, Pat­rick Cnwky, and Jahn Ibntacae. Jenme Crow­ley was nominated as honorary president. 
At the annual election dinner, Jan. 21. in the Knickerbocker Hotel all these nominees were voted into office. Frank J. McAdaas presented the new officers and governors. 
Heyer Xorton, Chicago attorney and toi>-flight football official, regaled the crowd vrith rapid-fire football chatter and Ed McKaever was up from South Bend with a tin or two of Northwestern pietores. The meeting unanimously adopted a reaolntion to invite all past presidents of the club to sit with the board of govemon at their monthly meetings. 
'nie new board held its first meeting in early Fttmary and qoiekly got down to work under President dark. Brace Hetaberg and Bakrt C Inaiger were elected to vacancies on the board earned by the military duties of J. Kay McGrath and Dam Ryaa. 
Action is underway to insure the Chicago Club's wfaokJieaTtad entry into the living Endowment Drive. Jack Clark haa pledge cards circulating araond the town and the oSIeera and governors are taJklng it tip. The March meeting is expected 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
to produce some tangible evidence that the drive is jelliuff. FrmnUrn E. Doan 
CENTRAL OHIO 
LMta C. Ifaiphr. 'S3. 2SS7 UTfantan ATC , CatanAw. Pica.: DuM F. Cunon, It, 8 Eait Braad St, Colmku. Sec 

The Central Ohio Kotre Dame Club is in the front lines as far as the personnel in the U. S. Air Corps is concerned. We have Cadet Ray J. Eickenkab, Jr., who is the son of Bay Eiciien­lanb the former national president of the Alumni, stationed at Air Corps Training Center, Kelly Field, Tex. Lt. John A. Ryan, U. S. air corps, Manila, brother of Joe Ryan of 1930. In the engi­neers, Jaiaes A. Harphy, '41, brother of Bad Uar^ phy, our president, and Lt. Bob Fortune formerly of Omaha, in XT. S. Engineers. In the Infantry we have Pete Kline, a captain at Camp Shelby. 
Among those who are near induction are Chet Riee who has- been called for his physical. Jack Cannon just recently interviewed Gene T\inney for a position in the Navy as physical instructor. 
Don Hamilton, was the master of ceremonies at the "Old Timers Club" which recently had a banquet welcoming the new manager of the Columbus Red Birds. 
A few members of our club will take in the Retreat to be given by the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. Tboae contemplating the trip are Dan Cannon, Jade Cannon, Bad Mntphy, Joe Ryan, Jadse BlacBride, BUI Btcsnahan, Bill Dare and Dr. Joe Ro^ea. 
We received the letter from the Alumni Office about the contemplated offerings to the school for the future alumni fund. A committee has been appointed and the matter is being discussed. We hope to do as much as any other club. 
I was in Cincinnati last week and had lunch with Charlie Hashes who is with W. L. Lyons Brokerage Hrm. 
Dr. Ji a Flanigan just biult a new house at 2698 Berwyn Ave. and then had a baby boy which he named James Timothy Flanigan, II; Don Hav­crick also had a new baby girl named Lynn Haverick. 
Dan Cannon 

DES MOINES 
Lenihan L. Lally, '21, 1120 Mulberry St., Pru. 

Tbis will be the last batch of Des Moines news that I will send in some time. I have recently been commissioned lieutenant (junior grade) Ordnance Corp., United States Naval Reserve, and have been ordered to report to the Naval Training School, Fort Schuyler, Bronx, New York. 
Lcc Kramer has an application in Washington for the same rating. We are both hoping that it will come through in time that he can get to Fort Schuyler for the same class. 
Lt. Ed Clarke, U.SJJ.C.R., is now stationed with the Marine garrison in Midway Island, hav­ing left Camp Elliott. San Diego, shortly after Jan. 1. John Forge is almost a Goodyear Rubber Company in Des Moines, he being the only man left in the office. 
Bill Robison 

INDIANAPOLIS Jaoeph H. Argai. 'tS, BJL 14. Bax Tt-B. Prca.; WUIiaa B. Kooap. 18, 241 N. Meri­diaa St. Sec 
The club, on Feb. 4, entertained Father Trahey and 32 students from the campus. "Hie occasion was the presence o f these'young men in Indian­
To honor Harry Flawwry. '23. apoa tba inull a 
apolis for examination at the Naval Armory prior to their induction into the Naval Reserve. 
Tlie dinner took place in the mess room at the Naval Armory with about 50 elnb members in attendance. Harry Scott acted as toastmaster and answered to the satisfaction of fdknv club members the question of how he had been able to graduate, which he did in 1917. 
Following the dinner. Naval lieutenant Brozo, whose son, now in tlie military service, attended Notre Dame, Lieutenant Commander Bishop, and Ensign Fred Stabbins, their former classmate at Notre Dame who was at home on leave from active service, told the applicants what would be expected of them in the Navy, and Commander Matthews swore them into the service- with the comment that they were as fine a looking group of applicants as he had seen. 
BiU Konop 
MOHAWK VALLEY (N. Y.) 
Frank Donalty. "33, 23 Beverly PL. Vtica. 
N. Y., Pres.: Edward J. Sweeney. '3*. 141S Miller St, See. 
The club's monthly dinner meeting was held at the City Club on Feb. 10. 

The club is going to purchase a dental chair for the St. Joseph's Infant Home, the same in­stitution we bought the toys for at Christmas time. We are having books printed and will sell chances on a defense bond. 
At the meeting were: Vin FktdMr. Frank D»­nalty, Charka Hitzelherger. Georxe Richter. Hash Glancy, George Zinunenaan. Dr. John KcUey. George McKee. Fran Toomey, Bill MalkaW. Fran Hadcett, Ed McLoaghlin. 
A dinner at Hotel Utica was given bonorins Harry W. Flanneiy, '23, on the occasion of his lecture here on Feb. 16. Harry has something on the ball and everyone in the audience was'pleased with him. After the lecture our club had an In­formal reception for Harry. We all sncerely he^e that he will be here soon again for he is a son worthy of Notre Dame, and he made all of ns feel very proud. 
Ed McLaaghlin has changed hb address to 25 Irving Place, Utica, N. Y. John Rad^ '32. has enlisted in the Navy and reported to Albany, N.Y. 
Ed Sweeney 

NEW JERSEY J«ba J. WbAerry. '28. 2M Park Ave. Batb­crfaid. Pnc ; Taby Knmer. ex. It . 14t Oiaiw* Boad. Mamtdair. Sec 
Because of the enforced absence of elected sec­retary Bab Taaaa. now located in Indianapolis, Taby Knuaer was appointed secretary for the duration (of the year). 
"The meeting of Feb. 2, was dedicated in most part to the planning of New Jersey Club's par­tidpation in observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. Our ranks have been raided by the emerg­ency but we are all dedded to carry on if only in modest fashion. The Japanese and the little fellow with the mustadie are annoying ns. 
George Wcnx showed excellent movies of the great Notre Dime Ohio State game, as well as a film covering the high spots of last year's famous football tilts. 
All Jersey men of Notre Dame are buckling down to the job of producing for the campus requirements this year. Jim Arautrang'a recent appeal has set in motion the machinery for com­plete partidpation in our territory. Plana of an exact nature are still being worked oat by Presi­dent Winbeny. We expect to lanndi ahead with determined vigor at our next meeting. 
Many of the Jersey lads went over to the wrons side of the river (New York to yoose guys) to see our boy Fao^t hanff up a new Madiaaa S«aarc Gaidea record in the basketball game with N. Y. U. 
The Woodstock was the scene of many touch-ins tennions the night of Fdi. 14, after the game. Quite a basketballer in his own right not so long ago Jobn HapUna put in an appearance. He will be a father in Angust. Perennial Fete QaiBn with the lovely Eleanor were there, as was Doctor (Bacfcy) CCannar and his wife. Pka Heinle and brother Norm, practically an N. D. man, rounded . out the party with Mrs. Heinle and starry-eyed Marie. BIB Carter had a sturdy nephew in tow who will one day be an attraction at an NJ).« 
N.Y.U. game Jae Wade, now with Standard Oil On. of N. 3. promised to OBne to the next meeting; as did brother Dan Dagan. of Bayonne, whom we also met after the game. 
If there are no other secretarial casualties, yon shall hear from ns again. 
Taby KraaMr 

 a( Mabetuc fat Utiea. N. T. aa Feb. It. thtae 
meaAers of the Ifahawk VaOey Ctab OMt fai the BaM Vtica far dtner. Left to ri^t at* Ha^ Cbocy. '32: Ed Sweeny. '30: Gcorse Bkhter. '31: Mr. FlaaMfr: Ftadt DanMy. '32; Ed McLaaghHa. '23: Chailea Hitzelberger. '32. and Fiaada Taaacy. '34. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
NEW ORLEANS CluTlea E. De Lft Vcr^ne. '2a, 1013 BUritime BMr^ Fres.: Emil L. Telfel, '31, Loyola Uni-Tenrit>* of the Sooth, Sec. 
Approximately 35 men of Notre Dame trans­formed a CYO breakfast into a roosin? Notre Dame rally Dec 28 in the recreation hall of Sacred Heart Church, the "Little Notre Dame of the South." Jimmy Crowley, coach of Fordham's Sugar Bowl champions, save his famous imita­tion of the Rockne dres^ns: room scene as the hi^Ugfat of the affair. Other Epeakers Tvere Coach Larry (Moon) Malllna, '31, now at the University of Florida; Ed Kotky, *32, Fordham end coach; Grcff Bice, who won the Sugar Bowl two-mile run; Brother Harold, CS.C, principal of Holy Cross College; Fred Digby, Sr., sports editor of the New Orleans "Item." and the RCT. George 
W. Dolan, C.S.C.* as^stant pastor of Sacred Heart and CYO director of the parish. Toastmaster \^-as the Rev. Leo F. Flood. C.S.C., pastor, who invited the Notre Darners, many of whom also went to Communion. 
Others at the si»eakers' table were the Kevs. John O'Connell, C.S.C.;. Andrew J. Mulreany. C.S.C., and Irwin Orldszewski, C.S.C. and Pat-ride E. Bnrlce, '89, honorary president of the New Orleans Clufa. 
Club members at the breakfast were President duiiles E. De La Vctzn^ Bolan Burke, Emil L. TcUd, John McCarthy, James E. Favrct, Lionel 
J. Favret, Adolpfa Fransen, Joseph D. Beach. Wil­liam B. Dreanx, A. L. Vitter. Sr.. and A. L. Vitter, Jr., Leo Happel, Fred Digby, Jr., and Brother Titu, C.S.C.. of Holy Cross College. 
Anecdotes of old Sorin Hall were exchanged by the club members with Rev. Charles Doremos, C.S.C., former Sorin Hall prefect, who was taking a vacation with the Holy Cross Fathers in New Orleans. 
After the breakfast. Bolan Burke invited club members to an informal gathering at his home. He and his dad, Mr. Patrick E. Burke, were very gracious hosts, and Miss Margaret Burke, a St. Mary's girl, was a gracious hostess. Most. of the club members went that afternoon to the Sugar Bowl track meet and saw Greg Rice win the two-mile mn. 
Fr«d Digby. Jr., is studying for the priesthood at Notre Dame Seminary in New Orleans. Fred had been director of publicity at Station WWL before he entered the seminary. 
Emil "Judge" Telfel and John McCarthy recent­ly were initiated into the Knights of Columbus. John is in the clothing department of Holmes Department Stoire. Judge, is with Loyola Uni­versity as director of the Department of Journal­ism, and was recently elected to professional membership in Sigma Delta Chi, national pro­fessional journalistic fraternity. 
BiU Drcanx is still active in the Free France movonent in New Orleans, and Austin Boyle, '31, is equally active in upholding the prestige of the Associated Press. 
Enul L. Tclfcl 

NEW YORK CITY Jowph G. Friel, '29. Hotel Woodstock. 127 
W. 43rd SL, Pres.; Timothy J. Toomey, '30, Botd Woodstock. 127 W. 43rd St., Sec 

The members of the X942 board of governors elected the following officers for the current year prior to the regular club meeting at the Hotel Woodstock on Fd>. 17: Preadent. Joseph G. Friel, 
•29; vice-president, Jofcn A. Hoyt. Jr., '33; treas­urer, George A. Bohrs. *33; and secretary. Tim­othy J. Taomey, *30. The remaining members of the board are: 2 year members, Jordan Hargrove. *3S; C O'Sluuflmessy, '32; Robert A. Hamilton. 
*29, and Edward Bedman, '16. One year raonbers, James Carroll, '31; J. Gregory Rice, '39; Alfnd Perrtne, Jr^ '41: John Balfe, '20; Jalm S. Lanlk, '2S; Warren S. Fogel, '30, and Daniel D. Hslpfai, '31. 
The new streamlined club constitation outlined in the recent issue of the New York "Ahunnn^* was unanimously adopted by the club members. 
Coach George Keogan sent his scrapping Irish basketball outfit against the Violets of New York University at Madison Square Garden on Feb. 14, before a sell-out crowd and the N. Y. U.'s wound up badly on the short end of the 55-43 score much to the delight of the New York alumni, authentic and synthetic 
The Hotel Woodstock -was the scene of a large informal get-together of local and visiting alumni immediately following the basketball game. 
Greg Rice. '39, newly elected member of the board, has continued to bum up the eastern indoor tracks vnth his record smashing ];>erformances. 
Jack Lavelle, '28, the New York Club's contri­bution to the rubber chicken circuit, has been acting in the c^adty of official starter in several of the major indoor track meets in the city. In a statement to the press following his ddut at the SClrose A. A. games, "Two Gun Jackson" in­formed his well wishers that he owed his success as a marksman to daily practice at the shooting galleries along Broadway. 
The New York Club recently lost Rkkard L. Donogfane, '30, who left the City to take up an important defense job in Waslungton. As com­mander-in-chief of the pre-game reunions and rallies on the eve of each Army game in New York, Dick's untiring efforts were directly re­sponsible for the success of those affairs. His work slogan was "Bigger and Better" reunions and with each affair be made them sudi. His letter of resignation to the Board was a masterpiece. 
Didc Donoghue's uns^fish loyalty to the Notre Dame Club of New York will long be remembered. His sound advice and constructive criticism will be missed at our meetings. The Federal Govern­ment has secured the services of a real Notre Dame gentleman. 
Club members are urged to notify the secretary of any change in mailing address. All members of the Club in the armed services of the country will have the New York "Alumnus** forwarded to their Dulitary posts if they indicate their pres­ent address on a penny postcard and mail to the club headquarters at Hotel Woodstock. 
Tim Toomey 

ST. LOUIS 
Dr. L. Vincent Gorrilla. '21. 3115 S. Grand Ave, Pres,; Dr. Bernard P. Crowley, '28, 1139 BeUevne Ave., Sec 

The big item of news for this trip to press is the recent announcement of the new coaching staff at Washington University in town. 
Kitty Gorman will head up the staff and will have as his asdstants, Andy PUney' and Bod Kerr. 
We look forward to seeing them as members of the local club and will be watching their pro­fes^onal progress keenly! 
"Hoefc" SANDUSKY. OHIO John J. HiUott, ex. '27. 913 Oshorae St.. Pres.; John E. Savord. MO. 705 Fdck BUff., Sec 
Attorney Thomas Murray, ex. '30, took the headlines from the rest of us for the month. Tom's four boys now have a htixy ^ster to com­pete with. A few days following this event; Tom announced his intention of running for Congress on the Democratic ticket. Congratulations and best wishes. 
At our January meeting, the officers were elected for the year; Honorary president, Faber Donahae, O.S., '93; president, John Millott, ex. '27; vice-president, Alfred A. Sdin«rr, '28; secretary-treasurer, John Savord, '40. All agreed that the retiring president, Janets O'Hara, ex. '34, was to be congratulated for the manner in which he conducted the club's activities. 
The chief item of interest at the meeting of February 11th was the discussion resulting in formation of tentative plans for a ''Ladies' Night" in April. 
John E. Savord 

RHODE ISLAND AND S.E. MASS. 
John^ J. McLaughlin, '34, Blendon Road* Cumberland Hill, R. I., Pres.; Russell L. Hunt. '39, 45 OIo St , WoonsodEct, R. l.» Sec 

On Jan. 23, Ed "Moose" Krause, recently ap­pointed to the Notre Dame coaching staff, was honored at a dinner party in the Narragansett Hotel, Providence, by the officers of the club and several friends. 
John HcKeiman, toastmaster of the evening, introduced the speakers: Charles McGnire. presi­dent of the Holy Cross Rhode Island Club; Jack Cronan. president of the Boston College Rhode Island Club and a close sports associate of Ed's; Bcr. RosaeU HcMnney, club chaplain; and Barney Madden, a FVY>videncc sports writer. 
Following the speaking program President John HeLaachlin presented Krause with a Notre Dame blanket. 
Raassn L. Hunt 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) CUrence W. Harding, '25, Soath Bend Trib­une, Pres.; Joaeph W. Nyikos, '2%, Court House, Soath Bend, Sec 
Four directors of the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph Valley were chosen Feb. 16 at an annual meeting in the Indiana club. They are Joseph W. Nyikos, WiOard F. Wagner, Charles A. Sweeney and Daniel A. Tonngerman. 
The changes in the TJniver^ty's program made necessary by the school's active role in the na­tion's war preparation program were described by James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary. 
Joseph A. McArdle, Irish line coach, showed films of last year's Notre Dame-Navy game and the 1940 Boston College-Tennessee Sugar Bowl classic. 
Clarence Harding 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Hugh C Boyle, '24, Law and Finance BIdg., Pittsburgh, Pres.; John F. PavUck, Jr^ 'U. Room 104, Coorthonse, Pittshargh, Sec 

Paul Mullen left Jan. 2S for a month's training in the Navy at Philadelphia, after which there will be eight months in some Naval Air Corps training center in the South.,.. He'll keep us posted on the N. Ders in the Naval air corps. 
John Marrin was commissioned Nov. 19, for the 
U. S. Navy and reported for active duty as an 
oisign Feb. 3.. . Albert Bbsters, a '43er, is sta­'tioned in the Medical Cbrps, Barksdale Held, La, 
Dan Broderidc was comnus^oned an ensign in die 1T.S. Naval Reserve recently after four months of intensive study in the Naval Reserve Hidship­mens School, Northwestern U., Chicago.... He was one of 800 young nun in tiie sdiool's first oommisnoning ceremony.... J*e O'Rearfce is a lieutenant in the 1303rd Sendee Unit, Camp Lee. 
The Notre DameAlumnus 
Tke annaal Retreat of the Notre Dame Clab of Western Pennsylvania was condaeted im St. PaaPa Retreat Houe, Pittsbqrgfa, on Jan. IS-I8. In attendance were those above, and they are, aceanDas t* the oSieial listinc: Front row. left to ii(ht—J. A. Briley, Father Linns Honahan. CP., Retreat Master; 
F. Oldham, F. J. Wilson, R. Cmkovie, J. C Sheedy, H. D. Sheridan, the late J. P. Cray, Father Baanll Walsh, CP.. Retreat Director; C J. Irwin; Middle Row—P. R. Faian. C. Fappert. J. F. HdfahM. Dr. 
J. J. Corrisan. P. I^sko, J. F. Reilly. Dr. R. R. OTooIe. L. A. Schneider, J. D. Pace, A. J. DiebaM, Jr.; Rear row—J. P. Hickey, A. D. Horsan, H. S. Sheedy, J. F. HcCacne. E. J. O'Connor. H. A. Gallaghtr. 
J. J. O'Toole, W. N. Steitx. M. F. Sheedy. Not in picture—G. J. Schill. 
Va... . Hike Benedeic, is now a corporal at Bat. tery B, 176th Field Artillery, Fort Meade, Balti­more. Md., AP 029 Since April, 1941, Dr. D. 
W. Gressly, has been with the V. S. Navy, and is now stationed at the Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Fla, as a flisht sureeon. His wife and two children are makin? their home, for the present, in Pensacola. 
Congratulations to the D. RI. Heinerts on the birth of a danghter, Margaret Ann. 
Joe Papa linished at N. D. in mid-term and is now sellins insurance.... His brother, Sam, is a sophomore there.... John B. Soisson is now in Charleston, V. Va., working for Appalachian Power Co... . Francis Timney is doin; probation work at White Hill Industrial School, Allegheny County..... Dr. Thomas Timney, formerly at Fryburg, is now practicing at Franklin.... Wel­come to Nick Kalmes and John Hnlhall, both '32er3. Nick originates from Colorado, John from Iowa. Both are in the F.BJ. James L. O'Toole. Jr. took over his duties as judge of the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County at high noon. Jan. 5. 
Condolences to the daughter and mother of John Peter Cray, who died Feb. 5, 1942. John Pavlick 

YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
Charles B. Coshwa. Jr., '31, 1866 Coronado Are., Pres.; Clarence T. "Pete" Sheehan, '40, 21S Granada Ave., Sec 

Fifteen members attended the February meeting in the Stag Room of Hotel Youngstown. Bill Fair, Dick Riley and Ivan Wolf were among the "long lost members" present. 
It was Hke a Notre Dame reunion at the Youngstown Country Club, Feb. 14, when the Chesterton Club—an organization of Catholic men holding college degrees—^held their annual pre-Lenten dance. Among those present were; Chariie Caakwa. BUI DnBievy. JadL Eanc, Georsc Kelley, Cabe Bbnn, Walter Vahey, Joe Vaschak, Gerry and Ivaa Wolf, Paal Fleming, and Jim CoOeran who always gets down from Cleveland when thcra is a big dance in town. 
EU LeoncUi, one of the district's top-notch bowlers, has joined our bowling team... • Raj Cestary, ex. '43. has been drafted Bill Hawaa is in the Navy... . Al Haatriana is praetieing law here.... Bob Dove waa gnest of honor at the President's Ball here in January. 
Pcta ahfAw 
FIRST SEMESTER ENROLLMENT 

With an enrolhnent of 1,038 students, the College of Arts and Letters led all other colleges of the University, in the first semester of the year 1941-42, close­ly followed by the College of Commerce, which listed 1,010 students. Notre Dame has a total enrolhnent for the first se­mester of 3,197. Three hundred eighty-five men were working for degrees in Science, and the College of Engineering had an enrollment of 563. 
Of the 3,197 students at Notre Dame, 3,036 listed their religion as Catholic, and 161, or 5.03 per cent, as non-Cath­olic. There were 3,158 students from the United States, and 39 from foreign countries. 
The geographical distribution by states was as follows: New York 494, Illinois 493, Indiana 420, Ohio 255, Michigan 202, Pennsylvania 185, New Jersey 137, Wisconsin 131, Massachusetts 106, Mis­souri 68, Minnesota 60, Connecticut 54, Iowa 53, Kentucky 47, California 43, West Virginia 27, Florida 25, Oklahoma 25, Texas 23, Oregon 22, Kansas 20, Montana 19, Nebraska 19, Louisiana 18, Colorado 19, Virginia 17, Wasfaington 16, Tennessee 15, District of Cdmnbia 14, Maryland 12, NorOi Dakota 12, Rhode Island 12, Vermtmt 11, Maine 9, New Hampshire 9, Arkansas 8, Arixona 7, South Dakota- 7, Delaware 6, Mississippi ^ 6, New Mexico 6, Idaho 5, South Caro­lina 5, Wymning 5, North Candiiut 4, Alabama 2, Nevada 2, Utah 2, snd-Georgia 1. 
The foreign distribntion was: Cuba 7, Canada 6, Mexico 5, Puerto Bico 5, Canal Zone 2, Central America 2, Chile 2, Hawaii 2, Pern 2, Alaska 1, Brazil 1, China 1, Columbia 1, France 1, and West Africa 1. The parents of Sydn«y Leonard Dart, graduate student, are mis­sionaries in West Afirica, and Mr. Dart does not have any definite home address. 
FATHER HOFF LEAVES 

Alumni of many years will hear with regret of the departure from the campus of Hev. Norbert C. Hoff, associate pio^ fessor of phflosophy, who was recalled to his diocese of Hdena, Mont., hy l>is bishop. Preacher of the baccalaureate sermon at the Commencement of 1929, Father Hoff was awarded an honorary 
LL.D. at that Commencemeit. He was president of Carroll College, Hdoia, from 1920 nntQ 1932, whoi he joined the Notre Dame faculty. 
RECEIVES CANADIAN POST 

A former Notre Dame faculty member, John J. Connolly, has recently been ap­pointed executive assistant to Hon. A. L. Macdonald, Canadian minister of nation­defence for naval affairs. Mr. Conndly has been a practicing Ottawa barrister for the past eig^t years. Educated at Ottawa University, Queen's University, and the University of Montreal, Ur. Connolly served three years as an in­structor of philosophy at Notre Dame, from September, 1928 to June, 1931. 
AESOP ET AL 

Aesop mij^t have worked wanders with this incident. 
Not long ago a South Bend print shop received a welcome request from a Notre Dame alumnus who had edited a Notre Dame publication way back in the '20's. The graduate asked for a statement of the account for the printing of the pub­lication. Upon checking throni^ kis books, the local printer discovered to his amazanent that there was still a sum of |75 unpaid, so he sent the statement as requested. In four days he received apologies and a cheek for $75. 
Aesop is dead. Too may point yotir own moral. 
22 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
» »

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Helen Elizabeth Pierson and Eugene L. MaUef, '33. of Haverstraw, N. Y. 
Miss Marguerite Carroll Regan and Patrick J. Fisher, *36, of Indianapolis. 
Miss Aileen Bannon and Sergt. Martin P. Cnsick. '38, of Jersey Cits-, N. J. 
Miss Roberta Thompson and Corp. Frank T. Famll. '39, of Fort Sill, Okla. 
Miss Janet' Louise Smith and John Francis McDonald, Jr., '39, of University Heights, O. 
Mi.ss Betty Walsh and Thaddens Harrison Harv­ey, '40. of Wilmette, III. 
Miss Roberta McTiernan and Donald Murtaugh, '41, of Chicago. 
Marriages 
CORRECTION 
Tlie Febmarr Issae erroneoosb' announced the muTure of JAMES A. CARRICO, '32. The James 
A. Carrico recently married in Sooth Bend was not an alamna*. 
•Die marriage of Miss Esther Schneiders and Thomas J. Lieh, *23, took place Feb. 7. in Los Angeles. 
Hiss Frances Frauenheim and Adrian Lopez, '28, were married Jan. 31, in New York City. 
The marriage of Miss Margaret McGovern and Tbomas L. Hart, '28. took place Feb. 16, in the Log ChapeU Notre Dame. 
Miss Magdalene Ann Leonard and Eugene J. GrathwoU* ex. '23, were married Feb. 14, in Niles. ICch. 
•Hie marriage of Miss Elizabeth Myers and Harry W, Draves. '30, took place Feb. 14, in Mishawaka. Ind. 
Miss Maura Sullivan and Arthur T. Sullivan. *31, were married Feb. 14, in Tewksbury, Mass. 
Miss Imelda Drassler and Edward F. 0*MalIey, '32, were married Dec. 27, in South Bend. 

The marriage of Miss Mary Louise Condon and Henry J. Prendcrrast, *33, took place Oct. 11. in Orange, N. J. 
Bliss Margaret Joan Moran and Dr. John W. O'DonneU, ex. '33, of Evanston, 111., were married recently. 
•Hie marriage of Miss Margaret Anne Robinson and Ralph F. Else, '34. took place Feb. 14. in Auburn, N. Y. 
Miss Gertrude Beneville and Daniel J. Brick, *34, married Feb, 12, at Boonton. N. J. 
Miss Barbara Jean lilly and William C. Keefe, 

•35, were married Feb. 14, in Bronx\'ine, N. Y. 
Hie marriage of Miss Regina Fleury and John 

W. Stanford. '35, took place Feb. 16, in Indian­apolis. 
The marriage of Dona Gsela Maria Molina and 
Don Carlos Abel de Landero. '36. took place Feb. 9, in Merida, Yucatan. 
Miss Florence Ruoff and Andrew Hafnacel, '36, were married Jan. 24, in East Glendale. lions Island, N. Y. 
The marriage of Miss Nancy Laubacher and Floyd F. Miller, '37, took place Oct. 29, in Oxnard. Calif. 
Miss Ruby Taylor and Lt. James I<ahey. '38. were married Feb. 14, in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Alice Davis and Paal Eble. *38. took place Feb. 16. in South Bend. 
Miss Dorothy Ann Cunningham and Lt, Georve 
M. Elmore, *38, were married Jan. 10, at Gunter Field, Montgomery, Ala. 
The marriage of Miss Marion Martha I^uer and Eugene F. Vaslett, '38, took place Jan. 24. in Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Miss Rosamund Murphy and Corp. John KcDcy, *38, were married in January, in Danvers, Mass. 
The marriage of Miss Eugenie Ann Collins and James R. Foley, '38, took place Feb. 17, in Detroit. 
Miss Audrey Adami and Patrick Roland O'Slwa. '39, were married Feb, 21. in the I*og Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Hie marriage of Miss Marion Vodicka and Ridurd D. Casey. '39, took place Nov. 8, in Glen Ellyn, III. 
Miss Doris Vachon and Russell L. Hut , '39. were married Oct, 25, in Woonsocket, R. I. 
Miss Ann Patricia Cheevers and Sergt. WiOiaai LoBson, *39, were married in Feb. 21 in Ghieaffo. 
Miss Anita Fischer and Elwood J. Larcry, *40. were married Jan. 3, in Denver. 
Hie marriage of Miss Rita Hanley and Bidurd . Dillon, '40. took place Feb. 14. in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Miss Lorraine Frances King and DanaU J. Sackley, '40, were married Jan. 31, in Chicago. 

The marriage of Miss Audrey J. Gloppe and Frederic R. Mendez. ex. '40, took place Feb. 7, in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Eileen McGee and Jaaws Casper. '40. took place Feb. 7, in Milwaukee. 
Miss Mary Lou Klusmeier and Hahcrt M. Sweeney, '41, were married Feb. 14, in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Claude A. Sorg, '10. announce the birth of a son. Claude A., Jr.. on Jan. 31. in Dayton, O. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. darcncc E. Manion. '22. on Feb. 1. in South Bend. 
Dr. and Mrs. Charles E. Goth, ex. '25, announce the birth of a son, Charles Edwardron- Jan^- 26,- in Elyria. O. 
A daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs. Thawai 

A. FarrclU '26. on Dec 3. in East Orange, N. J. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Halpin. *27. annoimce the birth .of a son. Richard L., Jr., on Fd>. 1, in Evanston, III. 
A daughter, Margaret Ann. was boni to Mr. and Mrs. D. M. Meinert, '28. on Jan. 13, in Etna, Pa. 
A son, John Porter, was born to Mr. and Mrs. John J. Reager, '29, on Jan. 22, in Perth Amboy, 
N. J. 
Mr. and Mrs. Dcvere Plnnkctt, *30, announce the birth of a son, on Jan. 31. in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Francis VL Marley, *32. announce the birth of a son on Feb. 28. in Fostoria. O. 
Twin girls were born to Mr. and Mrs. Walter 
A. Kidbasa, *32, on Feb. 22, in Chicago. 
A daughter. Sharon Hiomas. was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kelley, '34. on Oct. 24. in Baton Rouge. La. 
A son, Richard John, was born to Mr. and Mrs. John C Boyle, '35. on Feb. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frcderidc W. Weidner, '35, an­nounce the birth of a son. Michael Joseph, on Feb. 5. in Chicago. 
A daughter was bom recently to Mr. and Mrs. Matthew Themes. '36. of Cncinnati. 
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Weber, Jr., '36. announce the birth of a dan^^ter. Mary Lee, on Jan. 14, in St. Louis. Mo. 
A son. Henry Steven, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Henry F. Pojman. '37. on Aug. 26. in Chicago. 

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard E. Mrgin, '37, announce the birth of a daughter, on Jan. 31. in Lexington, Mass. 
Mr. and Mrs. E. Frederick Wolter, '37. an­nounce the birth of a son. James Frederick, on Feb. 26, in Fort Wayne. Ind. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M'. Wakovita, '38, on Feb. 23, in Akron. O. 
A daughter, Mary' Noreen, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John Lake McGainness, '39, on Dec. 8, in Watetbury, Conn. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward K. Grimes, '39. announce the birth of a son, Neil Kelly, on Fd>. 1, in Dayton. O. Henry Rohl, '40, is baby Neil's god­father. 
A dauj^ter,. Ann. was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Jaaeph P. SaUivan. Jr., '39, on Dec. 11, in Little­ton, Mass. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Aubrey, '40. announce the birth of a daughter. Judith Glenn, on Jan. 22, in liouisville. Ky. 
A son was born to Mr. and Mrs. Edward Dela­hanty, *40, on Feb. 17, in South Bend. 
Deaths 
WOIum Walden Gray, B.S., '84, of Grayville, IlL, died Feb. 18, in a Rochester, Minn., hospital at the asc of 77; he had been preadent nnce 1920 of the Citizens National Bank, Birans^-ille. Ind. 
One of Notre Dame's most ardent and senerous supporters. Her. Mickael Byan. A.B., '95, pastor of St. P«al's Church in Haeomb, III., for S6 years, died on Feb. 17. Father Byan had been ill for several months. His death, at the age of 68, resulted from pneumonia and complications. 
Father Byan was bom March 13, 1873, in Dan­ville, IIU His first two years of priesthood were st>ent in Peoria; his next four years in Piper City, 
One of his parishioners writes that during his 36 years in Macomb "he has married nearly all the parishioners here under 60, baptized their children, and buried their parents." 
Solemn Requiem High Mass was celebrated Feb. 19, in St. Paul's Church, Macomb, with the Very Kev. £. S. Dunn of Monmouth, III., as celebrant. The funeral Mass, one of the most largely attended ever held in Macomb, was celebrated by Most. Bev. Joseph H. Schlarman, bishop of Peoria. An­other Mass was conducted Saturday morning in Danville and burial was in Danville. 
Father Ryan's sister. Sister M. Constantine, C.S.C., is stationed at Mt. Carmel Hospital in Columbus, O. 
General Eduardo F. Hay, '01, Mexican Foreign Relations Minister from 1935 to 1940, died Dec. 27, in Mexico City, Mex., after a short illness, at the age of 64. A brief announcement of Senor Hay's death appeared in the February "Alumnus." 
Senor Hay began his political career as chief of staff of Francisco Madero during the first Mexican revolution and had held many other gov­ernment posts at home and abroad. He was once ambassador to Guatemala and once financial agent of Mexico in Paris. 
General Hay. as Minister of Foreign Relations in the cabinet of President Lazaro Cardenas, was widely known for the strong stand he took on the oil expropriations issue during his tenure, a policy he pursued while seeking to better relations with the United States and fostering inter-American solidarity against the axis. 
During General Hay's tenure the good-neighbor policy of the Hull regime received increasing sup­port and the German efforts to influence Mexican policy were rebuffed once by the expulsion of the chief German propagandist. As a result, Mexico was a consistent supporter of efforts for inter-American solidarity. 
General Hay was president of the Lower House of the Mexican congress during the World War I. Later he was Mexican Minister to Italy and was recalled in 1921 to serve as Under-Secretary of Foreign Relations. Later he served as Minister of Cbmmunications and as Consul General at Paris. 
From a "Detroit Ftee Press" news clipping, sent by Father John Ma^amara, the "Alumnus" learned of the death of Hany W. Cnllen. '12, on Feb. 5, in Aaheville, N. C. Surviving are his wife. Helen I<. Cullen; two daughters, Mary Louise and Patricia Ann Cullen, his mother and two brothers. Funeral services were held at Visitation Church in Detroit. 
Charles J. Kintz, of Terre Haute. Ind., a student in 1917-22, died suddenly of a heart con­dition, on Jan. 21, according to word from Father Hugh O'Donnell. president of the University. 
Jakn Peter Cray, '24, died Feb. o, in his home, 37 South Balph Ave., Bellevue, Pa., according to word from John Pavlick, secretary of the Western Pennsylvania Club. He was a son of the late Peter Cray, who founded the Cray Brothers Company, funeral directors, with which he was assodated. He leaves a daughter, Ann Estelle Gray, and his mother, Mrs. Mary Brady Cray. 
JaaMs B. (Ben) Baame, '26, died Dec. 30, at his home in Phillipsburg, N. J., following a long ill­ness. Ben was taken ill last June and had baen confined to his bed since that time. Ktving missed the class reunion last spring, he was countins oa attending Commencement this year. 
Ben is survived by his wife, the former Helen Powers of Cleveland, and two sons, Billy and Jimmie, aged seven and ten resi>ectively. 
Bishop John F. O'Hara. G.S.C., assisted at the Funeral Mass in Phillipsburg and delivered the eulogy. Dan O'Neill, John Hartley, Eddie Duggan, Jerry Hayes. Frank Milbauer, Jim Quinn and Tom Farrell attended the funeral and other Notre Dame men visited the home prior to the funeral. Burial was in Cleveland. 
A letter from his sister. Miss Mary G. Moore, brings sad news of the death of Chaiks Havre, '30. Albion, N. Y., killed in an automobile acci­dent on Dec. 2. 
Charlie's sister wrote.in part, "Charlie was a Notre Dame man to the very end. 'Bxe accident occurred on a Sunday evening. Charles was con­scious until about a half an hour before he died on the following Tuesday afternoon. His last words were. *I only wish I were out at Notre Dame— right at the Grotto.' 
"I realize that Father O'Hara has known many hundreds of young men, but I doubt that any admired, and, in a man's way, loved Father O'Hara more than Charley did. 
"May God Bless Notre Dame, for she certainly leaves her Christian principles on her graduates." 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Bymn Kanaley, *04, and John Kanaley, '09, upon the death of their brother; Rev. Walter MclMeracy, C.S.C., '32, upon the death of his mother; Bra&tr Aquinas, CS.C., ex. '33, upon the death of his father; Brother Anastasios, C.S.C., '34, ux>on the death of his sister; J. H. Draccker, '37, upon the death of his father; and to the Helland family ui>on the death of the mother of the late OHver P. Helland, *39. 
Personals 
Before 1890 C»^P.Camp, ' New
 Oikaas. 
La. 
I AA A A A Rer. J. A. MacNaaura. '*T. lOTU-if Y Saint JoMph'i MiMral Batka, Mount Ckmcna, Wdk 
From Father Blac: 
I have had several letters from Jaaea W. Sdtr. of Los Angeles, who was at Notre Dame from 1897 to 1902. ID a letter last Jnly he recalled a number of the old students in the gay '90*s. Jim was in the old St. Joe Hall for five years and in "99 played on the "Varsity Reserves." He pitdied and Billy McNidiols caught. 
Peadies O'Neill, '01. and Ralph Glyna. ex. '02. among others, were on the team. BretlMr Hash was the financial secretary. 

Jim was a South Bend boy and went out to Los Angeles 15 years ago, is married and has a family. His address is 4322 Van Buren Flaea. Los Angeles. 
I haven't any further news of my time Til welcome correspondence from any of the hers from '90 to '99. 
BUuit.bd.
1900-04 BaOdlBr,
More reminiscences from the Dakotas, entitled "Black Hills Freighter" by T. D. l^raas. '04, 

published in the .Dee. 19, 1941, '?Commonwea]." Judge Lyons, a former district iodge of Oklahoma was recently selected cliaii^.>i of the amnial Democratic county central committee at a meeting in indsa. 
B*T. Thamaa K. Buke. C.S.C.. 
19054)9 
•n, Stn Dame. Ind. 
I A | A BOTerad M. L. Matiaity. Salat Hsiy'a I T I V Ckwck. IbBlOT. O. 
 Fnd Stam^ ICCC Flnt NatiMul Baak 
ml 
I BU c CUcagOb m. 
IAIAB . J. Kaiser. S24 Fwirth St , Pitta-
Paal B. Bynw, Vnirenity Likrary. 
Natn Daaw, lad. 
1913 
Frank B. Haycaw C42 Xkird Ave., 
Ckala Tista. CaUf. 
1914 
IA|C * JuKs B. Sanfetd. 5M1 HagiMlU Arc, iTldckieacaw m. 
Gnrer HUkr, Clt Wiscanun Ave., 
1916 
Wis. 
lOIT ^ J- VoO, 2K E. Tatt St, Seatk IT I # Bend. Ind. 
FVom Bemie VeD: 

Dick Daley, national advertising manager of the Erie "Daily Times," was recently elected president of the Erie Press Club. 
In attendance at the Football Banquet held Jan. 19, were Hany Seatt and Fred MakaVey of Indianapolis, in company with Danny Hilgartner of Chicago. 
Your secretary will appreciate increased re­sponses regarding your plans to return tar the reunion. At present the dates for Commencement and reunions are Hay 9 and 10. Please mark your calendar and set your plans accordingly. 
Fatker Speer Strakan. '17, a U. S. Army chap­lain in Hawaii, has been writing some vivid de­scriptions of the Jspanese attack. An articla en­titled "Holy Communion in Hawaii" was an inter­esting feature of the Feb. 9, "Commonweal." 
His letter to Most Rev. Peter L. Ireton, eo­adjntor bishop of Bichmond, Vs., and a January release of the N.C.W.C. News Service, reads in part: 
"1 had just begun Mass when the Japanese passed directly over us, and began their deadly work. 'Die explosions were terrific, hot not cnooj^ to make me stop. Whet I had finished, I £s ­covered I had lived through a historic half-hour. A little later, on the way to a second Htm, I passed directly throng a second attack, and didn't miss anything except being hit. FVom then on I was bti9 at the ho^ital and outside of it. 
"The memory I will carry is how basntifnlly our Catholic boys died, and how grateful they were for the Sacraments. In their suffering yoa would tell them to offer up everything with Oar Lord on the Cross and tell them that yoa would re­member than in the Mass. One Protestant lad to whom I said that answered: Tea. you do tkat for rael' Another boy begged ma to give him Cbmmonion the next day becanaa it was U s birthday. (He didn't seem seriously hart.) After he hsd received Communion, he was wheeled into the operatinc room and I was hurriedly luiaiiaisil jost in time to give him the singia anainting as he died. 
"Since then I have been very busy going out onto tha field, confesijng our boys and giving these Cmanwmion oa tha ipol; tastiBS or aot. The Japanese have been good to us: no wilsiinn was ever like it. 
"Imagine me comlns upon a group, hearing their Gonfesaons* then 20 or 30 men kneeling in a circle, uniting themselves vnth each other and with God by the three acts and Our Father, then leceiving Holy Communion. I have given over 400 Communions in the field from Dec. 7 to Dec. 22 and have done it because every man is in periculo. Only one man has refused to go to Confession." 
John A. Lemmcr, 901 Lake Shore 1918 Drive, Escanaba, Mich. 
Clarence Badcr, 650 Pierce St., Gary, 
Ind. 
1919 
Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black Bldg., Loa 1920 Angeles, Calif. 
Dan W. DaSy, 1600 Terminal Tower, 1921 CIcTcland, O. 
Norm Barr;*, of Chicago, is the Democratic 

candidate for Illinois State Senator from the 21st 
district. 
I AO O '^^'^ Ashe, 46 West Avenue, Hilton, 
I TZZ N. Y. Paul H. Castner, 137 South Ave., New 1923 Canaan, Conn. 

Danny CnBune has been chairman of program with the USO ^nce June and has also been pro­gram director for the National Catholic Commun­ity Service in Washington, D. C. His wife and child recently moved from their home in Chicago to Bethesda, Hd. 
J. F. Hayes. 393 7th Ave., Room 1515, 1924 New York City. 
Jobn P. Hurley, 2085 Brookdale Road, 1925 Toledo, O. 

Biev. John Kinff Mnssio, MJ^., *25, has been appointed Chancellor of the Archdiocese of Cin­dnnati with offices at the Chancers-, Cincinnati. The February issue of the "Alumnus" gave his last known address as Rome, Italy. 
127 N. Dearborn St., Chicaffo, 111. 
1926 James A. Ronan, 

Art Badwill. of River Forest, 111., Chicago sub­urb, is the Democratic candidate for re-election as state senator from the seventh district. 
Irrinff A. Harwich, Mishawaka, has been sworn into the Navy as a second-class yeoman with the aesisnment of handling le^al matters in the administration of the Great Lakes naval training unit. He has combined his legal practice with that of Hishawaka City Attorney £ . Spencer Wahon, '35, "for the duration." 
Ail of '26 will join in a prayer for one of the best known and best Hked members of the class, Ben Boame. The details of Ben's going are under "Deaths" in this issue. 
Will eomebody back there please wake up Ronan? 
1927 
Joseph H. Boland, Station W'SBT. South Bend, Ind. 
From Joe Boland: 

Principal doings of the class of '27 since the last issue quite probably were to register for the draft and fail to write to ye scrivener. That is, all but T»m Farley, whose fine letter is in­cluded herewith in toto: 
"I just finished reading the February issue of the "Alumnus" and was indeed shocked to read of the loss of Hugh McCaffcrj'- You may be sure he*Il be remembered in my prayers. 
"As you can see from the letterhead. I'm with the Universal Credit Co.—^branch manager, here at Williamsport, Fa. I've been with the compiiny for the past six years, first at Albany, N. Y.. my home town; then Jamestown, N, T., flnd here at Williamsport once Hay of 1941. Tvm been married for three years and have o&A lont Tommy 3rd. 
"Other 1927 men with Universal Credit are Frank Hayes, manager at Altoona, Fa.; DMI Ryan, regional operations manager, Chicago; and Bob Shields, home office. Detroit. 
"Bob Shields was at Williamsport a few months ago, and we &];>ent a few pleasant hours talking over the old days at N. D. 
"I very seldom see any of the '27 men. or any other N. D. men in this part of the country, and so I would like to register a request to bear from John Slatteiy, who was with Crucible Steel of Chicago to my last knowledge; Don FitzceraU. and Bart Favero." 
To which your humble scriv. adds—we'd like to hear from those boys and a few others, with similar letters from time to time. Just enon^ to let the other lads know how you're doinff and where you're doing it—they're just as interested in you as you are in turning to this ^ace each month, so use it as a mail meeting place. Adios. 
Red Smith, of the Fhiladelphia "Record" is serving on the board of governors of the Phila­delphia Sporting Writers Association. 
Loa Buckley, '28, wTites: "Frank Fcndervast and his wife visited me in Washington recently. Frank is in public relations work with tlie American Book Company, Chicago. While here, he received a notice to report for his phyracal exam for the draft.' 
 F. Buckley, 4481 Condait Bd.. 
1928 Louis 
Washington. D. C. 
From Lou Buckley: 

Our guest writer for the month, Bemie Garhcr, came through in fine style with the following interesting letter from 300 W. 109th St., New York Citr. 
"I wrote a few classmates for news but only Dave Gibson and Art Canty have answered so tar. Since both are in California there must be some connection—^probably a rainy day when th ^ re­ceived my letters. Dave, his wife and two boys are living in San Gabriel and he is more than busy trying to get his new home completed as he never sees any Notre Dame men and wants a roof over the heads of his family when he goes back to Indiana for the re-union in 1943. I think Ccm­gressman Grant might be able to bring some pressure to bear for the sake of an old friend. Dave hopes that no chaos spoils the reunion for next year. 
"Art says he has little to add since his report of a few months ago. He praises his adopted state but then he has lived there only five years. The Cantys have two children, the younger, Pete, being six. Art met BiH Clark and his wife, of Toledo, on the street not long ago. She is Bemie Losfaboagfa's sister. Art asked about Walt Layne and sent his regards to Larry CnlUney. I haven't seen Walter recently but he is married, lives oat on Long Island and is still an editor with Dell Publishing Company. 
"The marriage of John Antas last summer to Miss Marjorie Ijawrence w-as not recorded in the "Aliminus" if I recall correctly. BadMp O'Haia asked the questions before the nuptial Mass in S t Patrick's Cathedral. OOie Schell and I were ushers even though many of the guests were at the church before we were. John lives in Stam­ford, Conn., and uses three bikes and roller skates between home, the office, Columbia University (be teaches - too) and his publishers, not to mention extm-curricular. activities at. the Cornell club. 
"Dr. Dan Bradley gets in from Amityville for some N. Y. Club affairs. Ftam some of his towns­folk I have heard of the many good and generous deeds Dan does, especially am<mg under-privileged children The father of "Bud" Blartia V. Cal-lacy died in January, I am sorry to write, and the newspapers here paid him due honor. A second child was bom to Mrs. Bud last September. 
"At the annual Communion breakfast I met Gearve Crongeyer after not having seen him for several years. He could still avoid the draft by saying he is under age. His apjiearance might be attributed to the country, life in New Rochelle or the lack of worry in the insurance biz... .Larry Odlincy promised me he would gather some class notes for this column as well as bank statistics while he was 'examining' up state. It is tough for a young husband like Larry to be away from home so much especially with a %vife like Cathy... Bill Cronin does his best to expedite their mail but Congressman Grant seems to have failed in his promise to have a law parsed. 
"Few '28 men are as faithful to N. D. club affairs as Bob Hamilton, William Turk KcUy. and Jadic Lavdle. Any club needing a real entertainer for a most important occaaon cannot overlook Jack.... I mean in his wei^t as a humorist.... Among others who sent me greetings at holiday time were Didc Green, Muncie's (Ind.) leading newspai;>er man and Steve Sherry, pedagogue in San Francisco, both former members of N. D.'s most famous class. 
"Jim Conmey and Mrs. O. are now living in Milwaukee. Rumor says Jim is with Cudahy com­pany. (It is a nice city, Laura)... John MrMahon, wife and two boys still live in Pittsbari^, I know, but I can't keep them fixed on one street. Hie smoke gets me, I suppose. Something nnist account for my lack of memory after visiting Mac. John is alwajrs rushing away to Chicago. Washington. New York, or somewhere to make a speech, or to corral an executive. 
"Another '28 journalist who s]>eaks to me once a year is George Scfacuer. C^rge has left Michi­gan for Chicago and is now make-up editor for the (^cago 'Journal of Commerce^' He is a clever amateur artist too. Another of Doe Cooney's boys with whom I keep on friendly terms is Richard Parvish. Maybe he thinks of himself as an old man now but I won't disagree with him on that or any subject for I would like to be an accepted visitor in his new home in the West Virginia mountains in case New York becomes a little crowded with air traffic 
To keep these notes in reasonable length I have omitted mention of men in classes other than '28 whom I have seen, heard from, or o\*erheard about. And there is the classmate I shook hands with recently whose name I couldn't and can't recall. He called me Muiph. 
"Where is Ed McSwecney, Harold (^anavan, Joe Brannon, Doc Brady, Joe Canty? Let *em si>eak up!" 
Tlianks, Bemie. for your fine cooperation. The only one of the group you Inquired about whom I can report on now is Joe Brannon. Joe is man­aging the Sears Roebuck store in Sacramento. Calif. TTie address is 1128 K Street. I hear from him each year at Christmas time via a gift sub­scription announcement from "Life" magazine. 
Frank Donovan, secretary and treasurer of the Koydon Enginering (>)rp. of Muskegon, Mich., was in Washington on war-contract business during the month. 
I hojie to have material for you next month from three guest writers. Christie Flanagan, Norb SeidcBstidcer and Art Scfaeberie. 
I A^ A Jowph P. McNamara, Attorney Gcn-I §Mmt eraTs Office, Indianapolis, Ind. Captain John Hinkel, of the Military Intelligence 
Division in Washington, D. C, sent in the fol­lowing iteno; 
"Dave Ldiman is now serving in an important civilian capacity with the United States MUtary Mission to North Africa. The last I heard from him, be waa in Cairo, Egypt. 
"Rrf S«Uaccr is now a second lieutenant of Infantry, having been graduated from the Offi­cers* Training School at Fort Benning, Ga., on Jan. 23. He. is detailed, at present, as a student in special Adjutant General's Department School at Fort Washington, Md. Rol deserves a lot of credit as he got his commission the "hard way." Less than nine months after being inducted aa a selective service trainee, he has risen from private to commissioned officer. 
"Don Wllkins, *27, is another Notre Dame man who deserves great credit. Because of his ^lendid background in the advertising and the public re­lations field in Chicago, he was recently com* missioned a captain in the Air Corps and assigned to the technical data section at Wright Keld, Dayton, O. I have heard some fine reports of his work there.** 

Rev. Joseph Voorde, C.S.C., unable to sail back to his missionary duties in Dacca, Bengal, India, on account of the war, left during February to take up new duties in the Foreign Mission Sem­inary of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Washington, D. C. After spending seven years converting the Hindus in India, Father Voorde came to South Bend a year ago on a year's leave. 
Francis Jones, South Bend, in January was appointed deputy county civilian defense director en the recommendation of the St. Joseph County Bar Association, which had recently made him head of a bureau of information organized to supply ans\vers to questions pertaining to the civilian defense program. 
George J. McDonnell, MJ>., has been called to active duty for the duration of the war as a first lieutenant in the medical corps of the Army. 
1930 
Richard L. Donoghoe, 310 Riverside Dr., New York City. 

This swell contribution from Dick Donoghne arrived just too late for the February issue: 
The class of 1930 extends its ^ncere sympathies to the bereaved family of Tom Yarr, *31, our beloved friend. We are proud that we can say that we knew him well, and that we will miss him much. May his soul rest in peace. 
There were holiday greetings from Bill Dnnlevy of Youngstown. O., Jim Malloy and his family of CharlestowTi, W. Va., Al Culver of Chicago, Frank Ledermann, of 55 Prospect St, Utica, N. Y.. and others. Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hellning, 336 Lookout Drive, St Louis, announced the birth of a son, Robert Joseph on Dec. 9. We congratulate Bob and his wife on the new arrival, and we hoi>e that we will become as capable a class secretary in years to come, as his father was in recent years. Bob did a big job on "this desk," as you all know, and finished his task with the 10-year reunion. 
As Jack Cassidy said it, how wouid you like to hear from the leading 'Greek* of Clinton, Mass.? Well, Patsy Hastings has come through with a fla^ about himself, so we give you Pat: 
"I had a very enjoyable time at the Army-Notre Dame game, and if it was up to Tim Toomey I*d be there in New York yet. We ^>cnt quite a few hours together discussing things that happened in the good long ago.... I also had a dandy time with your younger brother, Bemie, the night of the Reunion and Rally. I met many of the other boys including Bed Carry, John SnUiran, from Holyoke. Mass. and Tom Qaalters. After meeting this delegation I really hated to get back to the trrind again. 
"I am in the restaurant business, and I have two hotels for a Adeline.... I am not married, as yet, but I am thinldnir of taking this stap very shortly. (Yon met her in the Commodore). She is a dietician, and hails from Chicago. I am counting on her help in my diosen profession if I don't land down in "nrinidad or somewhere like it, in the meantime.... 

"Edward Fhilbin, '28, is <H>eratiiig a successful real estate firm, and he is also engaged in the coal and oil business. Ed is married to a very charming girl, and th ^ are the proud parents of four lovely children. Joiin T. Baike, '29, is a junior lieutenant in the Naval Reserve, and he will be called to active duty very soon. Jaha F. Borke, '29. teaches in our Clinton High School. He is married and the father of five children. Blartin Salmon, '27, is employed by the John Hancock Insurance Co. as a supervisor where he is doing very well. Martin is married and the father of two children. 
I am sorry, Dick, that I could not attend the 10 year reunion but that was because of an opera* tion. However, I will make the centennial cele­bration. I would like to be remembered to Kelle­gan, McMnrray, BiO 0*Maney and all the boys in the Middle West. I am very anxious to know what they are doing—." 
Well, Fintsy, we enjoyed hearing from you, and thank you for your interesting letter. 
We sent the Magic Carpet to Mexico in search of Enrique Rodriguez, and we have a short greet­ing from his brother. Rani RodriKaez, ex. *32. as follows: 
"Enrique has been in South America since the expropriation of the oil compsnies in 1938. He has been working as an electrical engineer for the Standard of New Jersey. At present he is sta­tioned with the Standard of Venezuela at Caripito. Venezuela. 
"I am forwarding your letter to him today by air mail, and I am sure that you will hear from him within a couple of weeks." 
Thanks, Raul. 

We have had many requests for word about Harry H. Francis, Jr., so we turned the radio beam on Francis Motors of Paoli, Pa. and the reception was as clear as a bell, so here you have word from Harry: 
"I am in the automobile business here in Paoli, a town about 18 miles from Philadelphia on the Lincoln Highway west of the city. I very seldtHtt see any of the boys from the local alumni chib as it is hard for me to get to the meetings. I had a misfortune in August when my wife died. We bad been married just a month short of four years, so you can imagine how I feel. 
*'The only ones I ever see are Joe Kelly and sometimes George Hewson. Joe is teaching school in Queens and doing very welL George of coarse is a prominent doctor in Newark. Hagfcie Gallacker and his wife were here for my wife's funeral and he is in good sh^>e. working for the govemmoit in the Internal Revenue out of Pittsburgh. I bear from Joe Palermo and Lefty Moran each Christ­mas .but I would like to hear from them more often. I think that I could knock the ears off Palermo at golf. Have not seen Marty Brill sine4 summer when he visited me with his bride. I have been following his team and I think that he did a swell job at Loyola with the competition he had to play. I saw the Navy-Notre Dame game.** 
Thanks \-ery much, Harry; we will be looldng forward to hearing from you again. This way­farer turned his steps toward Detroit reomtly and that effort brought forth news from Teas Frost, as follows: 
"News first from my room-mate Eddie Redm—d, he who hailed from Kalamazoo, the town of cdery and pretty girls. I spent an evening with Eddie and lus buailr late ttis IIIMI I at their 1 MUwaokee. Foar cUldien to date, aad lour §am Tonngstera keep Bifie boay at aaswerins qMS­tiona. Eddie divides his timelwtweem hia job M diief dtendst for Hoenles Powder and pivmutiam variooB Meatures. His latest is his plant <at Hayward, Wis., a pzojeet of no proportions. 
"My next-door nu^bors in Detroit are tkat epic team at Jim Samvan and Malcalw TkeaUv from Mt. Clemana. When these boys wet* fai school these towns were Detroit. Both Jisa and Mae were married in 1939 and now. both boast of families. Jim has a baby boy and Mae a bafar giri both a year old so the team still eoptiniw Jim has a beantifal new funeral home in Boyal Oak, and Mae, a career man in politics, is prose­cutor for Ifammib Coanty. 
"In the shadow of the Golden Doaie. Kail Brennaa has lots and lota of pretty girls ringinr up sales for the W. T. Grant Department Store. Karl has managed Grant stores, fnaa Brooklyn to Sooth Bend, condns to Sooth Bend last year from New Britain, Conn. Kari has his two boys, four and six; and when not otx the Notre Dame . golf course is over in the reference room of tha 
N. D. Library. Karl enjoys the native n>irit of South Bend and has become a leader in its ctHnmercial life. 
"A newcomer to Detroit is Jea Mffabe Joe has recently been assigned to the Detrmt area as the Midiigan representative for Congoleom Nairne. His family now numbers twa Patiy, five years old and Bill just a youngster of eight montlis. Jo* lives in Dearborn and I see him often. He alwaya has the latest news of the fellows from Midiigaa from his travels throoghoot the states 
*'B«cfcy Slack dropped in to see me tliis summer. Bucky is with General Foods and Uvea in Battle Creek and travds the state of Midiigan. Boeky has not changed a bit and, except for being married, is the same Bucky Slack. 
"While in Kankakee, HI., some time ago ran into G*ide* Tom* Lawkr, originally frooB Fidr­mont, Minn. Torn rounds out 11 years of servie* for Gties Service and talks like a big oU man. Tbm takes care of his company's badness in tb* southern half of Illinois. 
**Skip Kcnaelly also rounds out' 11 years with Goodyear Tire and Bobber Co. A foreign serviee man Skip has had several foreign asdgnmenta for Goodyear, bat is now back In the U. S. A. Last beard from he was in Pittsburg. Skip now has two boys. 
- **Dan SalliTam writes from Northampton. Mass., that the contraetins bnnness is betta than ever. His family numbers two boys. Don has been a contractor ^e e his Notr* Dame days and win build yon anything from a bridge to a tank plant. 
*qtaBiiy SolHTaa does all of his taOdng and writing for Bfeetrolax and by round about rosaor. I bear he Is in Vfhxte Plains; N. T.. bavins skipped op north aboot a year ago from Atlanta. Ga. I and lots of others are anxious to hear froaa Dan and what latest fortunes have befallen tbe sndling one tram Watldns. Gully. I do know. 
' however, that he h u a Httle habr K>rl. 
"Ei Lrnvfai is stin in Obrphant. Pa. and al­thoosfa my eomnnmieation from liliB is move tium a year old. he was then superintendent for sevoal mines in tlie Seianton area. 
"Art MeCauw recently married, sets t]>e paee for reaUr firms in fl» HetTomiitan sector of Vaw York City.. I saw Art three yean ago hot hare had no news from him nnee. 
"I hear from Jadt Tdland of HinneapoKs often. Jack is territorial suiiervisur for Penn Halaal Insmanee Co. Bnilfnc a new home this year has not interfered with hU divetdfied aeUrity'in th . Twin Cities. He is alwam servinz on some kind 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
of a committee or other and gives freely of his time to parish activity, youth organizations, and Chamber of Commerce. He highlighted his activity this year by being one of the main cogs in the celebration of the Encharistic Congress, held in St. PauL 
Taa l Heidkamp, whom I call on everj* trip to Chicago, took Brother Cyprian seriously and has been a CPA ever since. Paul will audit anything yaa want audited and enjoys a fine clientele in Chicago. FanI has three children. 
"Gil Kirwan, a Kentucky colonel, maintains a deep silenoe in Atlanta, Ga. Gil is a manufactur* er*s agent and covers the entire southern part of the United States, Cuba, and the West Indies. I missed him on his recent trip to Detroit and only talked to him by telephone while he was at the airport cnronte to New York City. He is closely associated with southern defense industry and says he dreams now only of priorities. 
"Does anyone know the whereabouts of Jade Sigler and Denny Sbanahan. Both were at the five-year reunion but since that time have man­aged to have Quite generally concealed themselves, 
"Now before parting a word from the writer. Nicholas bom on Nov. 1 of this year brought my family to the enhancing total of three. Elizabeth and Bfary have eagerly awaited the arrival of a baby brother and his coming was indeed welcome. I have managed farm stores for Sears Hoebnck nnce they began opening these retail units and came to Detroit when they opened their new ferm store here a year ago. It's still the old Btory of plows and spreaders with me hut where a man's fancy is there is his home." 
Speaking of Bill Cinder, your correspondent had 

m. most pleasant visit with him here in New York about three weeks ago, due primarily to Hngh Gallacher's recent directions, but Hugh can nar­rate the story better and give you news about others as well as himself: 
"On Dec 7, the N. D. Club of Western Penn­sylvania held its annual Communion Break&st. We had a nice representation from the class of '30. Among others, I talked to Bill Ginder who is connected with i^e sales promotion division of Camegie-ntinois CorjMration, with ofitices in the downtown city. Hiis new location affords Bill the opiwrtunity of attending the weekly luncheons and in general keeping abreast of things in an 
N. D. way. Bill is married and the father of two children. 
**Bay Totten is connected with the Blaw-Knox Steel Company. Jim Dodson is still representing the Duqnesne Brewery Company throughout Plenn­sylvania and West Virginia. Bud Fletcher and Jim Morgan, both living out of the cily, made welcome appearances at the Frank Leahy and Father Cav­anaa ^ dinner held during the past summer at vhich the local club presented Father Cavanaugh with a diedc for $2,500 r^resenting a down-payment on a scholarship fund. Bud has been associated with the Mine Safety Appliance Com­pany for the past dght years, is married, the father of two children and makes his home in WiUdnsbnrg, Pa. While Jim, still single, has been teadiing school at East Pittsburgh ^gh for the past seven years. 
"I bad occasion to run into John Roney recently. He is living in Dormont, Fa., a suburb of Pitts­bargfa. and is connected with the Jones and Laughlin Sted Corporation. Bemie Conroy gets around q[nite regularly, covering those 25 miles from New Kpnrington. BiU Steitz had plenty to relate on the N. D. - Army game at a recent hmcheon. 
'*I see Qtdte a bit of Ed Ndiel, who lives nearby in Ifoont Lebanon. Ed represents Equitable Life in Allesbeny Goanty and is one of the most active of the cUsB in N. D. afiEairs. Doctors Dick 0*TooIe and Bab HacDaitald are both engaged in pedi­atrics and general practice here in the dty. BoOt ere very busy and it is only when a little time permits that we have a glimpse of them. 
"The friends here of Harxy Francis extend their sympathy to him in his recent bereavement. Auv ry's wife died daring the latter part of August. I had occarion to see Harry and while there met Joe Kdly and Dr. George Hewaon, who drove down from Brooklyn and Newark respeetlvelr* Joe is a pedagogue in good old FUtbush. while George is in the practice of general sursery in Newark. 
"Sometime ago I had a letter from George O'Malley, who is practicing law in his home town of IHxon. 111. And a recent note from Gil Pmn^ dergast disclosed the same practice in Baltimore, Hd. I attended the wedding of Leo Carney in Erie during August. Leo is district manager for the Pennsylvania Employment Service in Erie. 
"Saw the N. D. - Southern Cal. game. Saw quite a few of tbe boys there—Chick Driscoll. Tim Toomey, Warren Fogel, Jack LaveUe, Joe Friel, John Golden and Oonie Donovan come to mind at present. 
"Don Bndiolz, '30, was married to Miss Gertrude Stanyon of Sheboygan, Wis., Aug. IS, 1941. Mrs. Bucholz is the food editor of "The Woman's Day" magazine published by the A. & P. Congratula­tions, Don and Gertrude." 
Dick Sullivan's novel, "Summer After Summer,'* has been accepted for fall publication by the Doubleday Doran & Co., as you may have read elsewhere in this issue. Dick, assistant professor of English at Notre Dame, has had stories in many leading magazines for years past but this is his initial success with the novel. N. B. He is also president of the Holyrood Chapter of the Catholic Poetrj' Society, having recently evaded impeach­ment proceedings. 
 BcTsan, 838 E. Colfax Arc. 1931 John 
Sooth Bad, Ind. 
From John Bersan: 

Congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Arth«r Me-Manmon who ^verc married in Lynn, Mass., Feb. 
14. They 'will make their home in Boston where Art is connected with the Donnelly agency. Pres­ent were. Jack Smnnders and Roy BaiUie. The Bob Baers are now living in San Francisco where he is with Electrical Appliance, Inc. lAttj Halter is with Dun and Bradstreet in Cleveland, and commutes daily from his home in Akron, pendins housing arrangements. Dick Botznm is manasine his father's feed and grain business in Akron and is awaiting his draft number, as are many more of us. Tom O'Connor is slowly recovering from a serious illness at his home in Indianapolis and would appreciate a note from members of the class. His address is 1423 N. Ffennsylvania. 
Among the class in the armed farces at present are: Lt. Jade Shively: lA. Charlie Powers; U. Joe O'Bonrice; Eniicn Tom Golden: Eiuica EBis Bloomstnm; Enncn Barry Herddmld; Flying Cadet Jack Lanx; Father Edward FibgeraU. 
C.S.C chaplain; Corp. Tim Beniti; Cat*. PUl Daffy; Corp. Frank Bntorac, and Pvt. Bill He-Cardiy. The eligibles of the next 60 days are: Jta Doyle, Box Rich, Larry Holler. Jade Saaaden, Al Grinnti, Jerry Boxtin, Bill Hafcing. Chariie McKeever, Bob Baskerville, Fran Beaapie, Hayor Clarence Donovan, Bill Cleary, Jai& Vaa Dike, Barney HcGkme, Bart O'Shea. Hike Teder* and the writer. Here are nndoubtedly a nomber of others in the service and awaiting tiie draft and we'll let you Icnow as soon as we hear from 1 
Hatt Garrigan spent a few days in the rity the latter part of last month visiting his nster who is an instructor at St. Mary's College. Jfaa HaH­gan, tiie Munde barrister, also spent a day here cleaning up some business prior to his indoetion into the Army. TOM DitchleU is with the Rock Uaad Railroad and is living in Wilmette. 
Father Aloyiias Dayberry, .C.S.C, the present pastor of St. Mary's Chnreb, lliree Oaks, Mich, writes the following inspiring letter about our classmates: 
"Daring my vacation in Texas, I met several of my classmates. Fathers Tliomai Jones, Joseph Haaier, Claade Boefaai, Alfred Hcndez. Patrick Daffy,- Tlwaua Colhane and Francis Wekr. 'While there, I also attended the blessng of tliree mission chorclies dedicated for the Mexicans. Some idea of this work can be gathered from the following story. 
"'On Dec. 14, 1941, the Most Eev. Robert E. Lucey, D.D. dedicated tiiree diurches which were recently built by Rev. Alfred Hendez, CS.C., '31, and assisted by the Rev. Thomas Colhane, C.S.C., '31. The three churches are San Jose, in Austin, Tex.; Santa Cruz in Buda, about nine miles from Austin; and San Francisco in Colton, about 12 miles from Austin.' 
" 'Fathers Mendez and Culhane have spent the past live years on the Mexican Missions. At that time, there w-as only one active mission, St. Helen's Church at Georgetown, Tex. A rectory was purchased at Georgetown sometime later. T^vo other missions which bad been closed when the late St\. Angos HacDonald was transferred to Notre Dame, have been reopened and besides, sev­eral other missions. Ilirough the cooperation of the Catholic Church Extension Society and appeals to their friends, St. Rose of lama Church was built at Andice, Tex.' 
" 'About 1939, Father Mendez was forced to abandon his missionary work because of a nervous breakdown. His' left Father Culhane to continue the work at Georgetown.' 
" 'After a year's leave. Father Mendez was again able to return to his worlc In the mean­time, missions at Round Rock and McNeil have been added to the Georgetown headquarters. 'With the building of a Church at Round Rock, in honor of St. 'William, the work included 12 active mission centers.' 
" 'Father Mendez' record was so satisfactory tliat lie was transferred to the ardidiocese of San Antonio to open up new missions, while Father CuIIiane was left to complete St. 'William's, and later on was transferred to Holy Cross in Austin.' 
" 'In 1941, the two priests were reunited at Holy Cross, and nine new mission centers were established and three new churches were built. An­other church which had been abandoned for 20 years is now in the process of renovation for use.* 
" 'Hie work of both of these priests has been largdy with the Mexicans, and the field of thdr labors includes some 5,000 square miles with 20 active misaon centers. Father Patrick Duffy and Father Francis 'Weber of the Class of 1931 have also built churches in the City of Austin.* " 
T. E. "Ben" Cakes sends in this interesting in­formation : 
"Since Jan. 15, I have liad a leave of absence from TWA to work for the Air Transport Asso­ciation with headquarters in 'Washington. I have been asdgned by the ATA to work as civilian asflostant to the commanding officer of the Detroit Sector of the V. S. Army Air Corps Ferrying Command with offices at the 'Wayne County Air­port, Bomulos, Mich. 
"My brother. Bay, and I Sew oat to Los Angeles over the Christmas and New Tear's holidays. On the way out I stopped overnight in Butte, Mont., and spent some time, with Bad Tkehy. who is now aetintr veda l agent at Botte with the FBL Yoo can tmaginti iriiat a change Butte is for Bud, who is pretty mndi the 'New Yorker.' However, Bud 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
is riffht at home with the FBI in any locality as evidenced by the prosress he has made with them in just over a year. He lives at 45 £ . Broadway in Batte, with his wife and a three-year old son* Brian. Brian already states vehemently iiis desire to enroll at Notre Dame some years hence. 
"While in Los Angeles had dinner and si>ent an evening with Blarty Brill and his very charm­ing wife. From what I hear on the coast. Marty had quite a successful season at Loyola this year. He lives in Manhattan Beach and hear he likes it so well he is planniner to build a house down there soon. 
"Also saw Joe Dwyer, •32, out there. Joe is locnted with a textile manufacturer and travels the Los Angeles area. One evening at the Heame home saw Jack Heame and Hugo Melchione among others. Jack is a scriptwriter and Hugo is with the Warner Brothers Studios." 
 Blyron E. Crawford, 6718 Frank­1932 Dr. 
lin Ave., CleTcIand, O. 
NAPPY IS REUNION CHAIRMAN 
Dominic J. Napolitano^ professor in the Department of Ffiysical Education at the University, has accepted the chairmanship of the Ten-Year Reunion, and will work with a local committee to be announced later. 
Tiche Wf>od9, 7944 Ellis Ave.. Chicago. 

1933 
Robert H. Cahill. Athletic Association. 
Notre Dame. Ind. 

1934 
From Bob Cahill: 

Sorry to be so lax on the reporting lately, men, but there has been precious little to report. 
Chief among the man-bites-dog stuff is an an­nouncement of the marriage of our own Daniel Joseph Brick, '34, he of the titian hair. He was so honored by the former Miss Gertrude Delphine Beneville Feb. 12 at Boonton, N. J. 
We are soon to welcome to Notre Dame the first member of '34 to become one of the coaching staff at his alma mater—Edward J. Kranse, who you may remember as having played a little football and basketball here in our time, only making the All-America teams of football and basketball two or three years and being presented a sx>ecial award by the student body upon his graduation for being an all-around right guy. 
Another coaching job which we were happy to note was the appointment of Tom "Kitty" Gorman. 
• varsity center in that tough *33 season, to the head job at Washington U. of St, Louis, with Andy Pilney* '36, and Bud Kerr, MO, as his as­sistants. Tom.is finally getting the break he de­serves, after passing up two head coaching jobs simply because of his high ideals and regard for the other fellow. This we happen to know as fact. 
Ihe whirl of changes here at school, chiefly the switch to three semester per year, the advent of the Navy, the draft hitting University per­sonnel right and left, leaves us a little dazed at it all, but proud that ND is doing its share to subdue that race of house-boys. 
I quote from a not-recent letter from Didc Kelley, now located in Baton Rouge. La., "We have a brand new little girl in our family named Sharon llioraas Kelley. She is real pret^ and cries with a southern accent." "Rie letter was dated Nov. 11, and I am sorry to say it was not reported before this. Belated greetings. Dick. 
lliankB for tfaa many Christmas greetings which you all sent. Iliere !s little else to say this time. 
except iKriiaps that we came through oar first year as ticket manager here with a modicum of grey hair and probably a crowd of enemies in­versely proportionate to the limited number of 50-yard-line seats. 
Julian Podnuta, working for the <^ty of Chi­cago, Department of Public Works Construction. Bureau of Engineering, at the South District Fil­tration Plant, is the proud father of a seven-months old daughter, Mary Ann. 
1935 FcanUm C. Hoehreiter. 34* Ave., St. Loais, Mo. 
From Hoch; 

As this is written. Mrs. Scribe and your corre­spondent have been spending the week in session with the American Orthopsychiatric Association. 
As an innovation (for '35) we are sending along two letters nncensored for general consamption. 
Bob Maher and Pat Fisher came thronefa nobly, and since we knew yon would all be interested in everything they had to say, we have taken this liberty. Let's have more letters! 
A word of felicitations to Bob Blaker and Betty Downey on their marriage and also to Jim Shcib and Peff Lambert on their joint venture. 
Now, with a word of thanks to the authors, we turn you over to Bob, 
*'In the February "Alumnus" was a request from Claude Tonrek about John Monahan. Andy Dtneen told me in a letter last fall that John was working in a hospital in San Francisco, having graduated from St. Louis Med. School. However. he has probably moved on from there now. In­cidentally, Andy has a residency in internal medi­cine at St. Francis Hospital, Pittsburgh. 
"I finished my internship in Mercy Hospital in Pittsburgh in July, 1940, and then worked for a year in King County Hospital in Seattle. For the last eight months I've been here in Elma, Wash., specializing in 'the skin and its contents.* Am salting away most of my gold to take a residency and specialize in a year or two. 
"On Sept. 2, 1941, I married Betty Downey, of Seattle, in that city, and we went on a cruise to southern Alaska for a honeymoon trip. 
"Jim Dillon was a private first class at Fort Belvoir, Va., at Christmas time. Haven't heard from him since." 
Pat Fisher writes: 
"Shortly after finishing school—back in the days when we had the longest column in the "Alumnus"—^I wondered if the time would ever come when the '35 column would dwindle to the size of that put out by some of our predeeesiors. Then the thought struck me that if our joomal­istic effort should become an aging derelict we would have only ourselves to blame. Hie accusing finger points at all of us. In expiation 1 snbmit this epistle. 
"During the October meeting between the Uni­versity administration and the local club repre­sentatives it was a pleasure to note that the class of '35 had more representatives than any other. It seems to me that there were five of us in all, but the only others I can recall are Jm» Argns, Adrian Wackerman and John Clark. 
"Because of a shortage of space over the South-em Cal week-end, and also because we had a very gracious hostess, I had the dubious privilege of sharing a room with Ji a Dwyer. It was onir then that I realized what Ji a ShtUs had to put up with for some four year.s. It was a pleasure to see him and we had a swell time. 
"On his way back from the western bad lands Jim aheils stbpped off for a visit. He and Pec ' Lambert were dotr united in Holr Matriauar OB Dee. 27, in the Chordi of St.' Joan of Aze^ Jadc­•on Heights, Lons Island. Xhoi ^ I couldn't at­tend Vm certain I would have enjofed it Imsim as Jim said. I t would have been worth tte trip to see Dwjcr and abcOs in eoUway coats and fancy pants.' In Jim's last raisdve he moitfamed having had a 'time' before tlie Navy game wrhk Jalu Nceaen and wife. Jim Nslaa and wife. WB Hartha and wife. Tern ny u and Say Bradnkk. He also reported that Jae Kaky had been elected justice of the peace. 
"Cartas de Lander* tells me that he has been at the Angangneo unit of the American Smelting A Befining Co. since the first of August. If s a smsll town in the moontains of Wehoeao, about 
10.000 feet above sea level. S e recently married a girl from Yucatan. 
"Beanie Cavender is now a captain in the Medical Corps and is stationed at Fort Clayton in the Canal Zone. His mail comes with a cen­sor's stamp on it. 
"Jahn Fold tells me that Joe Sduaidt is dnng a fine job of looking after the welfare of all the Notre Dame men at Camp Lee. He also mentioned that Frank McGahren had diarge of the U.S.O. headquarters there which are operated by the NCCS. 
"I was John's best man in a ceremony at the Cathedral last summer, and I performed a like chore for my brother in the falL Some time during the coming summer I expect to partidpate in a similar uffair at whidi' the peal of the wed­ding bdls will have a more particular signfieance. My severest critics say that news belongs in the 'man bites dog* category. Yes, I finally did it. At Christmas I gave a ring to Marguerite Carroll Began. 
"The '35 boys here have been very quiet. The man who seems to have made the most progress is Clarence Pidcard who became a father for, I think, the third time the other day. He still gets his cheek from the Indiana Bdl Telephone Com­pany, where Jec Bcdc also may be seen every pay day. As far as I know Art KiansfeMer is still at Beilly Tar * Chemical, but I haven't seen him for months. Joe Argns is the prendent of oor local club and is doing.a swell job—made more for our scholarship fund than any time In the cinb'a history. To be a little more tborougji, I just called Art Knuufdder hut he didn't have any news. Jee Beck tells me that he and Didc Sdmcer and Merk Scttks are expecting invitations to jean up with Uncle SamueL Until they get them thcT expect to stay with Indiana Bell. Merle is now working in Anderson, having been released wi& the 23-year-oIds not so long ago. Dkk mgglas. woridng here for Piest-o-Lite, said that Paal SUab's father had died in Fort Wayne. 
"Joe Diaeder also had a tough break in the recent death of his father. Joe has resgned from Linde Air Products and is now hack in Kokomo operating Indiana Products Company (foondry sand, fire brick and fire clay). 
"Dan Havciidc comes in from Colnmbas occa­sionally to tell me about Buckeye Union Insur­ance Co., his wife and thar little girL 
"Art MalMllsad is still 1-b in the army, bat A-1 in the outdoor advertising buriness, aeeorfing to latest reports from Kalamaxoo. Because of a trip to California he hmke his perfect attendsaee record at the N. D. home games. I think he only missed one though. 
"Thoo^t I law Val Kbikr on the street the other day bat wasn't sore. It It wasn't hel it was a raasoBsble faedmile thereof. 
"Jaha KiilsH is grand knifjit of Tokwn Cbon­dl of th* Kniidits of Cohmbos. 
"ttmr Sesbi* and Dam VairaTete have law offices together in Chicago. Tony expects to so in the army about March 6." 
From Georve Foss, Jr., at the V. S. Naval Gun Factory In Washington. D.C., comes this letter: "My job here has been assistant to the officer in cbarse of the metallursical and testing section and I have supervision of the heat treating and metallographic laboratories. I also represent the Navy on the War Department cartridge case com­mittees and am the Navy member on the National Advisory Committee for Non-Ferous Metallurgy. Add to that two nights a week teaching at Cath­olic University and you see that I keep busj-. My rank here is lieutenant. 
"I haven't been around much socially outside the Navy. Saw Bishop O'Hara one Friday night at Hogate's and Lnke Tieman anotlier time. Bill Faymoni-Ule, '40, is at the gun factory, an ensign in the reserve. Bob Dnffy, '37, and Joe McNuIty, '37, also are ensigns and went through the school here during the past summer." 
 Horan. 61 E. 95th St.. Apt. 2. 1936 John 
New York City. 
From John Moran: 

Add to the list of '36 men who have joined the Army the name of Bud Goldman XKHO volunteered and reported to Camp Upton, N. Y. on Friday, the 13th of February. Good luck, Bud. 
Cliff Brown, Norwalk, Ohio's leading barrister, broke a long silence to report that law business keeps him stepping. 
Congratulations are in order for Andy Hufnagd who married Miss Florence Kuoff in East Glendale, Ix>ng Island, on Jan. 24. Walt Alatnsevich was present and reported that Andy made his re-qx>uses clear and loud. Walt is now doing defense engineering work in New York City. 
Sgt. Jim Sherry^ Fort Lewis. Wash., wrote that he was transferred to the West Coast during December, and spent Christmas Day on the train. While in Washington, D. C. he saw Ray Deely. During a stc^ over in Chicago, he spent a day with Gene and Mrs. Tobin, and their youngster. Geae is manager of the Ted liyons Recreation Oenter on the south side, and from all accounts it must be quite a sportsman's paradise. Jim reports that he is getting plenty of fresh air living in tents. The Sarge sends regards to the gang, and wants to hear from a few of you, such as Al Carey and Phil Clarke. 
Dr. Ken Laws deserted his practice in Lafayette. Ind., for a few days to come on to New York. We had the pleasure of lunching with Ken and Frank "Doc" Mnrray at the New York Hospital where Frank is continuing his internship in pediatrics. Doc reports that Howie Cnsack is now connected with a Brooklyn insurance iirm. 
From the papers we note that Andy Filney and Bad Kerr have been picked as assistants to Kitty Gorman at Washington U. (St. Louis). 
After the NYU-ND basketball game in Madison Square Garden on Feb. 14 we saw a number of the bcors at the party staged in the Hotel Wood­stock. Among than Joe Wade who is commuting from Elizabeth, N. J. to the metropolis and his job as a statistician with a large alcohol firm. Johnny Hopkins, another commuter from Jersey. was on hand, as was Toby Kramer. Johnny is in the advertiang business. Also present were Bill GUk^ic* the ever diligent law student, Al Carey' who is now assistant comptroller of the concern he is working for, Walt Blatnsevicfa. Pan] Doyle of Union Cazlilde. and several others whose names escape us at the moment. 
- Your secretary is on duty as an ensign with the Navy, and la temporarily stationed in >Tew York. Getting oat this column under the present conditions d^tends almost entirely on your letters. 
Give us a break and let us hear from you. You can't be any more rushed than we are—so take a minute off to send aXonz a line or two. We are particularly anxious to hear from any of yott in the services. 
Jim Byrne left Cleveland Dec. 22, after his enlistment in the Marines. He is now a private in the Ninth Defense Battalion, 3rd Anti-aireraft Group, Battery E., Fleet S&irine Force, Parria Island. S. O. 
Lt. Joseph Prendergast, now a member of the 54th BHM I.R.T.C., at Camp Wolters. Tex., was graduated from the Fort Benning, Ga., training school Jan. 19. 
 Foley, 910 Hawthorne' Road. 
1937 Paul 
Grossc Pouite, Hidu 
Bob Dncey has been on active duty as an ensign in the Naval Reserve for nearly a year. His ad­dress is 4026 Aspen St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Jim Murphy, ex. '37, of Pontine, 111., received his appointment during February as a full-fledged aviation cadet at the U. S. Naval Air Station, Jacksonville. Fla. Jim was graduated from the University of Illinois, and later attended Harvard University. As a second-class seaman, he was given preliminary flight training at the Naval Reserve Air Base, Squantum. Mass. 
Tom (Kitty) Gorman, as you've read everywhere, resigned as line coach at Creighton Unlveraty, Omaha, to become head coach at Washington Uni­versity, St. Louis. 
George Bonficid is in the Army, stationed in St. Louis. 
Robert Daffy is an ensign in the Naval Reserve. and at the U. S. Navy Torpedo Station, Newport, 
R. J. 
Joe Qninn. who will soon enter the Navy's V-6, stopped in the office on his way home after a trans-country trip. He reported that Tom Hiffcim. of Kansas City, has been married six months and is in the home construction business. 
Joe also reported that Ed Reardon had been re­jected by the Army, but is still trying to get into some branch of service. Tom Reardon has two children, a new home, and is in the insurance business. Joe visited with Gordon Marphy while in Cheyenne, Wyo.; Gordon is in charge of the personal loan department of the American Nation­al Bank there. 

Joe said Harry Baldwin is practicing law in the "Field Building, Chicago, and that Tom Roaney, sUIl a man about Kansas City, was trying to get into the Navy. He further reported that Brooklyn Bill Foley is in the Army ^hitelHgence on Gov­ernor's Island. And that. Jim O'Hara, of Chicago, is now a sergeant and instructor at the Quarter­master School, Fort Warren. Wyo. 
1938 
Harold A. WilUanis, 308 East Lake Ave., Baltimore, Md. 
From Hal Williams: 
Not too much news for this issue, but here's what we have. First. Charlie Callahan who writes from 404 West 115th St., New York City. Says Charlie: 
**Bucky O'Connor lives across the street -with Greg Rice 'and is a Budweiser man as regards business. Greg is an accountant ivith a toy eom­pany; he's been in New York since eariy summer . A fellow that lives in the same apartment building tells me he's working with Joe 0*Biiea over in Bayonne and that the latter is married (Joe not Bayonne).... George MtDenmtt, •£ Rochester, is or was worldng in New YoA or using this city as his base because a month or so ago Charlie Norton, '39, told me in Grand 
Central Station that the two were rooming to­gether out on Long Island. 
"Gene Dolan is now with the GYO in Troy. 
N. Y. . . . Tom Mulligan is at the Great Lakes Naval Station.... Leo Welch is in the Army.... Jim Carson has been married for some months Bin (trackman) Clifford is in Kansas with the Army..,. Ted Swjceney is with the Navy at Hawaii..., Johnny Wilson is an F.B.I. man in Washington, ditto Johnny O'Connor... John Meran, ye old "Scholastic" cd. is in the Navy Intelligence branch.... Johnny KeUey is at Camp Edwards on Cape Cod.... 
I talked to George Fitzpatrick on the telephone while in Worcester last November.... I forget what he's doing now, but he's out of the school teaching racket.... Joe Knharich was selected on the All-Star National League football team that played the Chi Bears here early in Jannar>*. — Joe Roetz is still an assistant coach at St. Mary's while he continues his studies at the U. of Cal. 
'•Bin Margnet is still working for the New York 'Daily News.'.... I am currently publicizing the National Sportsmen's Show which takes place the latter part of February.... am still out of the draft and that is all." 
'Rianks, Charlie for the line letter. 
And there is this engagement to announce: 
Aileen Bannon to Sergt. Martin P. Cnsick, of Jersey C5ty, N. J. Sergeant Gusick is a former member of the class of '38 and is now stationed at Fort Claiboume, La. Miss Bannon attended Notre Dame College Convent on Grymes Hill, Staten Island. 
Ihis from Don Hidcey, the South Bend ham­burger man. He writes: "I saw more of the boys at the Northwestern and Southern Cal games, but most of the names have slipped nay mind. I'm on my way into. the service.... and I have this sug­gestion to make: How about having the '38 boys now in the service write to Notre Dame, care of the '38 class reunion, telling where they are and what they are doing. These letters or notes could thai be read to the boys at the reunion. This may be a wild idea, but goodness knows how many boys win be able to attend the reunion. Lots of luck to you and all the boys. I'll see yon in the Army. It used to be Til see yoa at the Army game I' " 
Don then adds a P.S. that Jabnny KeUey and Sac Ifarphy were married during the last week of January in Danvers, Mass. 
tnien there was a note from my old roommate. Bad Sherwood saying that Iran (nee Ivaneevic) Vance is now emplc^ed at the Chevrolet Plant at Tarrytown, N. Y., in the payroll department. 
And that's all accept that tomorrow—^Feb. 6—I join the Army. 
BiO Gibbons is now working at the Kingsbury (Ind.) Ordnance Plant. Didc Carney writes that he was married last June, and is now living in Northampton, Mass. He is working for the F. W. Woolworth Company there, having been trans­ferred last July from Buffalo. 
Chaiies Satheiland, according to a Naval an­
- nouncement, received an appointment during Feb­ruary as an aviation cadet at the U. S. Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla. 
Gecrge Karl Petritx. ex. *38, brother of Joe Petritz; *32. of this sheet, is an enagn in the Navy and recently piloted an Assotnated Press r^wrter through the mine fields of Manila Bay and recdved national newspaper acclaim in con­seqnoiee. George is the pilot of a navy patrol vessel in action in the Philippines. 
The foQowxng is from John Beer, staff sergeant in the Hqs. Detadiment, 2nd Bn., 12dth Infantry, Camp Forrest. Tenm "While in Memphis I ran 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
into Jtny, '36, and Bill Foler. '41, and a few of Bill's elusmates. Bill is employed by some aircraft company and expects to be called any day now. Pidn't set a chance to talk to Jerry but understand he is Eoing to make an effort to get a commission. They have one brother in the service already. 
"We're on a si:c-day schedule now and will work Saturday afternoons. Host every fellow in 
camp at the moment will be an officer in a surprisingly short time, 
"Lt. CoL Sherwood Dixon, '20, gave an excel­lent talk last Friday evening to the members of this battalion. All agreed that it was one of the finest lectures delivered since our arrival at camp. ITie Colonel has remarkable ability when it comes to slipping^ humor into his remarks. He's one of the best liked officers in this regiment." 
JOE RUETZ SURVIVES HAZARDOUS TRIP 
Nearly lodng his life from starvation and ex­posure in December and January while maMng a 500-mile trek alone through the badlands of sonth­eastem Utah, Joe Raetz, '38, former football star and now assistant coach at SL Mary's College, Calif., discovered pottery and fragments dating back to the 12th century Indian dwellers. Starting at Moab, Utah, Joe determined to scour the entire region between there and Blanding, Utah, taking colored pictures and gathering material for his mjistcr's degree in anthropology at the U. of Cali­fornia, which he will receive in May. He learned of the attack on Pbarl Harbor and our entrance into war nearly ten days after they occurred when he met three cowboys carrying a portable radio. He had undertaken three other such journeys in this region and in his four trips has covered ap­proximately 2,000 square miles, on foot. 
The following excerpts from Joe's letter to his family, written while on his tnp, tell bis mag­nificent story more vividly than any second hand writing could tell it. 
**.... In order to get to the Clay Hills country and beyond it was necessary for me to hike nearly 100 miles over a country that was monotonous and profound. I followed a very faint trail through this country for the first five days.... Endless ridges were broken suddenly by huge yawning canyons that had to be crossed or headed.... The fifth day out, I camped at the Natural Bridges... and from there the trip followed an old trail blazed in the late "SO's by a group of some 200 Mormon pioneers on their way from Bscalante to Bluff, Utah. This trip was one of the greatest of pioner sagas and I proposed to follow their route to the Colorado River.... Over Clay Hills Pass, I found myself in a remote plateau province dissected by deep canyons and gorges. It was here that I met the cowboys. Found the route leading into Hold Canyon. Very deep and precipitous, it meandered erazily for some 25 miles to the Colorado River, and the hildng was very un­pleasant due to the innumerable quicksand pockets. 
[Written Christmas Day] "The hike back to Greenwater camp was the most fri^tful in all my experience. I hadn't been on the trail an hour before a howling blizzard struck. My horizon was limited to less than 100 yards, landmarks were invirable most of the time in the driving sheet of snow and deep snow obscured the trail and I lost i t Stumbled wearily into the very teeth of the storm to find that I had traveled in a complete drcle and was headed back towards the Colorado Kver. Tried to set off in a general easterly direc­tion using faint landmarks as guides. Stumbled about erazily on the icy slick rock, plodded with leaden legs through drifts of snow covering tum-mocks of sage or sand, fell down many times. I begain to cry for it vras the first time I had ever faced blizzard conditions. Then grim determination would set in and I'd rush forward, trying to make time. Tlie Blessed Virgin once again aided me and I found myself overiooMng Castle Wash. Scrambled down the icy slicks to find that I had arrived at a spot far in advance of where the trail would have led me. Was now just three hours from camp, but they were the most weari­some and lonely I'd ever spent. Stumbled and fell many times into soft snow drifts, broke through the ice in the stream bed, finally crawling into 
can>p—thoroughly soaked and depressed. My beard and hair were matted with icicles.... Ihe storm has ceased, but may strike before morning once again I pray God the next five days aren't as terrible as this one has been. 
"The last three days have been the most lonely and terrible I have ever spent. Two feet of snow blanketed the country and distances were endless. Had to force myself on and on over the obscured 
JOE RUETZ. '38 

trail, never sure of the distance I'd nu&de or what lay ahead. Wanted so much to get back to people and social life, yet ahead lay some 100 miles of faint trails, buried deep under heavy snows. Never have I suffered mentally as ranich as I do now. I keep saying rosary after rosary trying to relieve the terrible mental burden that presses me. 
"My legs have endured the most strenuous sort of work imaginable during this trip. One would hardly believe that they could stand such wear and tear without collapsing entirely, yet they have given me no serious trouble aside from the ex­pected weariness at the end of a long day's hike. 
"Since my last postscript, I stopped writing for I gave up all hope of ever returning alive. Heavy blizzards struck once again the day I left Grand Gulch and two feet of snow hid the Mormon trail. I lost it and two days of frightful wanderings brought me way south, back to Grand Gnldi, forcing me to hike all the way back through heavy snows. Lost four days here, my food supply dwindled and I was still 80 miles from Blanding. 
"The emotional experiences I suffered the last four days in getting out to civilization were terrible. I stopped thinking about books and plans and people for it drove me nearly crazy to think about them. I would say rosary after rosary while plodding wearb- through the snow. Sometimes I would read stories from a magazine I found at Green Water, while hiking, to relieve my mind. It was cold—terribly cold—15° below zero. At night I would cut huge quantities of wood and keep a big fire blazing so as not to freeze. My shoes, warped and frozen, swelled my feet and cut them. Many times I broke down and cried—asking God and the Blessed Virgin to lend me strength In my need.... On and on through two or three feet of snow, my legs would pound up and dff-vn with never a rest. Had lived on rice and coffee for a week. Determined to make civilization again or die in the trying. Jan. (, I readied the road fraa the Natural Bridges to Blanding—at a qn t IS miles itom Blanding and my legs collapsed entirdy from the strain. Half dragged myself to an old abandoned trading post three miles down the road and stayed overnight. Was out of food entirety and supped on coffee alone. Up the next day, had a teavoon of sugar for breakfast and started off. but my legs were done. The friction of the under­wear on the sensitive skin back of my knees doe to the up and down hiking and the cold had-wom raw sores that scabbed over nigjit and broke dur­ing the day as I hiked. 
"God's great mercy and the good Blessed ATirgin must have taken pity on me for an Indian Service car that had taken a doctor out to the Reservation three miles above my post came along and they took me into Blanding. I actually got on my knees and thanked God when Blanding came into view. Bought a new pair of comfortable shoes immedi­ately for my feet were swollen and half frozoi. Aside from the back of my knees, now healinir. I am feeling wonderful physically and so happy spiritually. 
"I had blazed a trail through three feet of snow for 150 miles for 12 days when I arrived in Blanding. Iba doctor was the first human being I had contacted in 23 days of loneliness. It was a frightful experience.... and I have found out. after 500 odd miles of solitude that man is. after all. a 'sodal being' and the hermetic life is a waxped one." 
1939 
Vincent DeCoaney, 454I Jaifeoe. Kan­sas City, Mo. 
From Vinee DcCsancy: 

If the last convoy hasn't left for South Bend this might make the now week-old deadline. Whether it is important that it does so or not is a militarr secret. Scanty news, but mighty is one item this month. 
An bar. 9 lbs. 7 oz. and all man, named Vincent W. DeOoursey, Jr. And the day, just to show how mistaken some things can be; I^ciday. Feb. 13. Mother and father doing welL 
But. we are not alone. Came a card some few days back announcing a new arrival for the Edward K. Grimes. Nothing like it. is there Ed? 
Add announcements: Mr. and Mrs. Ckailes B. Hayes, nee Shirley Squire, date. Dee. 20. And incidentally, make that read ikisign and Mrs. Hayes. 
Add letter (s?). Note &om Didc Anten making mudi of a personnel job at the South Bend plant of Oliver Farm Equipment Company, staffing a new defense plant. Address, 415 W. Wayne St* South Bend. 
Best contribution of the month was from I.anT Sattaa. now of 1565 Central Ave.. Memphis. Tenn. Larry is working at the Fisher Memphis Aircraft making parts for the bombers the papers say we're producing here at Kansas City- About April. how> ever, will see Ijarry in uniform. 
News eontributed follows: Privates Jofcit Wabh. Jeha BcMdiet, and Bart OTeele are at Camp Forrest. Tenn. Marty Hcdanis came back at Christmas a second lieutenant. 
As of the date of posting this scrawny month's work came two cards. One from ?at German— still at Georgetown, but getting out come Spring— pronuses a letter, whidi we await with interest and. from experience, doubt. 
Bien a card from Sgt. M. F. Leaky who had passed through and was tmable to make contact. . Maury was on' Us way to Miami Beadi from Denver, •-hidi seems a nice switdi this time of year. He is in the Army Air Corps and will attesd the Oflleers Candidate Sdxwl in Florida. Address Roney Plaza Hotel. Miami Beach. 
rnm too much last month to whatever we can call this poor harvest is a severe let-down. Most of the blame attaches itself to my already weisht­«d shoulder, hut vte malce one more plea—those in service; please let us know about it. Drop me a card; don't have to say much, just so we know you're in and. if possible, where. All of us want to know, and this is as good a clearins: house as any. "fl^th this thought we make a monthly shame-faeed adieu. 

Biatt Mericle has successfully completed the Air Corps Advanced Flying School Training at Luke Field, Phoenix. Ariz. He received his silver wings snd a second lieutenant's commission in the Air Corps Beserve at graduation exercises in January and is now in the Air Corps Ferrying Command at Logan Field, Baltimore. 
Lany Doyle has the follo^x-ing military address: Det. Medical Dept., Station Hospital, Camp For­rest, Tenn. 
1940 
Robert G. Sanford, 3934 N. Iffatyland Ave., Milwaukee. Wis. 
From Bob Sanford: 
More and more letters are coming from Army camps and it seems as though almost everyone in our class is doing things the traditional Notre Dame way—for God, Country, and Notre Dame. 
Jim Bnnm is not in the Army, he says: 
"Just received the December issue of the 'Alum­nus* away down here in Trinidad. I can't tell you what a swell feeling it creates inside to read about all the fellows and how they are getting along. Tbese last two months in which Harry Martin and 'ShinebaU' Sexton have written gives me that letter writing oomph. 
"After graduation and a month on the beach I took a job up in Valhalla, N. Y., as a laborer working on the Kendco Dam project—really for the purpose of getting into shape—before going to work for National Gypsum in the fall. Around the 15th of September the defense program broke and to make a long story short—Fm still in construction. 
"In the middle of September '40, we went to Cape Cod and batted out all TOO buildings of Camp IBdwards, where I see Bocb Le Pase is (Xaartered. If there are any complaints from Notre Dame fellows quartered there just remember that we made room for 25,000 men in about 90 days— which isn't exactly loafing. Last May the com­pany took the lUnidad project. So here I've been nnce May '41. And I was getting set for a couple of years of good old New York after graduation! Fve been home about six weeks in the last year and a half. — So far I haven't met any 
N. D. soldiers at all. Most of the units down here are North Carolina outfits. 
""niere are a few N. D. boys working for the companies—mostly all engineers escept me. There's Matt Mdnemr, '38, from South Bend, who was also at Cape Cod; C3imriie Hogan, another engi­neer from Brooklyn and a brother of Jerry Hogan; T«Bi Paine, who knew Duke Murphy and Jim Sweeny in our freshman year. BiQ Shakespeare, who is working for some tool outfit, was in town awhile ago on bunness. Tom Walafa, '35, one of the owners of the company from Davenport, la., is here. Of course, Bart Mclnemey, '39, whose home is in IVinidad, is here. 
"I had a letter from Paul Hellmnth, who is also in the Army. At the time he wrote (ante Pearl Hmrfoor) he said he was h<q>ing to be released to continue his lair education. I can imagine how dose he approacbed Cambridge. I wish that '*Ed­car* DsviJmtT' would write a few lines and let us know bow be likes the Army. 
"It seems that all oar 'good group' in Alumni front have gone to sleep except Sezt«n. Where's Frost, Callaii. BCcBobertB, Tony CdU, Pete Mar-tori, Beccfae], and the rest7 
"Last winter I bumjied into B* the Boston Garden at a hockey game. I know that Don Staplcton is in the Army—I think it*s Cali­fornia. Stape was one of the boys who went early to get the one year over with. 
"Authentic news is so scarce down here that we really haven't felt the pressure of the war very much, and then we've been working 10 to 14 hours a day. Kjwever, to read about Ji a Cenndl, who lived ri^ t at the end of our corridor during our senior year and whom I remember eqw^ially for his swell radio and huge collection of records; and also about OUie Helland, whom I knew very well through our association in the Bengal Bouts, somehow brings the war very much closer. 
Very glad to hear from you, Jin, and I'm going to write you very soon. Jim's address is 
J. G. Brown, c^o Walsh Construction Co. and George F. Driscoll Company, Port of Spain, IVini­dad. B. W. I.—A.P.O. 803, Dock Site. 
The next letter comes from the U. S. Marine Corps at Quantico, Va. Jim Metzlcr writes: "Hie other night Jim Donoghne—Jim and I are together here at Quantico—^was telling me of the death of my good friend Jim ConneO. Indeed I was shocked. Jim was a buddy of mine during our senior year. He lived in the room next to me in Alumni Hall, llie only consoling thought is tiiat Jim died doing that which he loved most—llyhig. 
"I have been in the Marine Corps since last August and have been doing duty on the West Cbast. in sunny California. At present I am in Quantico waiting to enter officers training sdiool. I will be working in my classes by the time this is published. Jim Donothae will receive his com­mission several days before I begin to work for mine. 
"While on the West Coast I saw Lt. Joe Mal­qaecn, Lt. Harry Phillips and Lt. Doag Bangcrt. I was over to Joe's house for dinner and met his pretty wife, Peggy. The dinner was wonderful, and Joe and Peggy are swell. Doug Bangert and I had a very accidental meeting in San IMego, which ended in a great deal of reminiscing. Doug looks like a million, and has promised to get me a 'Jap.* 
"Iltat's about all except I received a letter from Bad Centner and he is back in the Army Air Corps in Alabama. 
It's good to hear from you, Jim. Don't forget Jim's address is Pfc J. P. Metzler, MCS Det.. Marine Barracks, Quantico. Va. 
I always enjoy hearing from Didc Ames. This time Dick says: 
"As I had said in a letter to yoa before, I came into the Army by the draft July 2S— enlisted in the Air Corps Jnly 26. spent five wedcs at Jefferson Barracks where I ran into Norv Hnntliaiuen and Dan "BiuhA. ^rom time I went to Chanute Held for an eight-week eonrae In teletype and was assigned to Maxwell Field. Ala., on Nov. 18. 
"While at Maxwell I ran into Pataaa. '41. Bad Centner, Myfes WalA, Andy WilsMi, '39, and I knew of Tnid^ Crane being around there also. I also have heard that Jade McNltlialas. ex. MO. is in the R.A.F. 
"I was asagned to the 4th weather squadron at Maxwdl and am on delated service here at Shaw Hdd. I am studying a weather observes eoorae and then if Fm good «toufi^ at that I may be salt to a forecaster's schooL lliat remains to be seen." 
Dick's address is Ridurd F. Aaes, Det. 4th Weather Sq., 77 Air Base Sq.. Shaw Field, Sumter. 
s. a 
Ed Aafcrey of Louisville wrote a very interest­ing note. He tells us: "In this time when the fdlows are scattered all over the world it is cert»nly a pleasure to find out all about them. 
"Since graduation I have been here in Louis­ville, engaged in the wholesale feed and grain bunness with my father and brother, Gkan. Glenn left for the army on Feb. 17; he was in the class of '41. 
"Walt Hagen, who is stationed at Fort Knox, attended the Notre Dame Club Chrismas dance. We had quite a time listening to Walt explain to us his varied duties in the army. He claims he routed a band of bootleggers from one of Kentucky's hills while on scout duty in a tank. 
"On Jan. 22 my wife, the former Dorothy Brown, and I were presented with a baby girl. She now wei^s nine x>ounds and is the pride and joy of our hearts." 
Ed's address is 2538 Wood Creek Rd.. Louisville, Kf., X know he would be glad to hear from some of us. 
The last letter of the month comes from Christy Flanagasu I want to publish his letter, but first I want to correct one thing. Christy says that he hopes he is not acting out of order for writing because he was never asked to contribute. If that is what is keeping some of you from writing I hereby invite every member of the class of '40 to write. Remember it's your duty to keep our column up on top* 
Here is Christy's letter in part: 
"As you can gather from this stationery, my Dad is a lawyer and so it was in the cards for me to follow in his footsteps. I had completed my first year at Albany Law Stdiool when Uncle Samnel decided that he could use me for a much bett» purpose. I tried to get into the Ensign Training School but found that I lacked the neces­sary mathematics to qualify. I signed up at N.Y.U. in the solid geometry and spherical trigonometry classes. I managed to pass the courses vrith an 80 percent average and was all set to he admitted to the V-7 tr^ning section. I have been a member of the U. S. N. R. since early November and I made my application for a transfer to the Ensign section. At present I am awaiUng my orders to ronrt. I am only hoping that I am sent to North­western for my baric tnuning because then I will be closer to old N. D. and can drop down there to see the campus again. While awaiting my orders, I am at my Dad's office running legal papers hither and yon; doing a little ofHce woric and watching the mails anxiously for my orders from the Navy. 
"Jmefk Mahar. '36, was married this past fall though saw no announcement of it in the 'Alumnus.* 
"We had a a^ni-pro football team in town last fan and J«hn Law. a former N. D. great, acted in the capactiy of manager, coach and what have yon. 
"As to news frwn the Albany Law School; ^Vnniaai Brannigan, *37. graduated, passed the Bar exam and is now a member of the F.B.I. 
' Bab Ortale» '39. is in his final year and has passed tus nud-term exams; Andy Piakey. ex. '41. and Many Penrose and DaaisI Falslaai, ex. '39. eonstitote the remainder of the N. D. contingent at Albany. 
"On my first day at N.Y.0., I ran into Vie Baggierab ex. '39. in the corridor and we renewed aoQuaintanoes. Vie is a."big gun" in politics at the se&ool and ecartainly has amdtipUed all of the aaiUtioit tiiat he diowed at N. D. before he trans­fened. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"Hagh 'Dagwood' T.BMghni is in the Army and the last word I imd from lum came from Jeffw­soa Barrmdcs, Mo. I sent a letter to tiim after Ciiristmas bat no re^ranse. Bagwood told me that Ed Lahcr is in the Army but I have not heard from lum in a year or more. 
"Edward J. Bbtkiea, my old roomie* has a high classification. I saw him early last sommer and he was actine as vice-president of the A. H. Mathieu Chemical Co. Jnst a bl^ time executive. 
"When, and If, you put any of tliia in the column, put in the statement that the fellows from the old St. Ed's A.C. (1938-39). and also the old lorons 'Sub* tenants (1939-40). should set on the ball and make an account of themselves.'* 
Christy's present address Is 232 Ko, Manor Ave.. Kingston, N. Y. 
Jim Casper and Eileen Mc( ^ -were married here on Feb. 7 and Jim is now at N. D. working for his Master's whidi he will receive at the end of the summer session. 
Ncal Gleason has been placed in class 1-A and we are now waiting to hear more. Neal is busily engaged at Marquette Law School. I am also wait* ing—I have received notice for reclassification. Right now I am still in 1-B, bnt there is a good chance the next news will be compiled in an Army camp. 
I certainly want to apologize to John Webtter for having him all over the country. John Is in his first love—Cincinnati. 
James F. Dcmpsey. reported Feb. 12, for Naval Aviation Flight T^^ning at the TJ. S. Naval Aviation Reserve Base, Floyd Bennett Held. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Walter Steffcn. M.A.. '40. a professor of English and history at the Father Ryan High school, Nashville, who held a commission as first lienten* ant in the infantry reserve, reported for active duty at Fort Benning, Ga., Feb, 11. 
Paul Bfollen, Jr., has been called to active service in the United States Navy Reserve and began training during January as a naval avia­tion cadet. 
Tom Blarker. who has been teaching English at the University, and taldns graduate work, recently enlisted in the Navy. 
Frank Lioyd, comptroller of the University, received a cable from his daughter and her bus* band, Vince Gomcharri. in February which merely said. "Well and safe." Vince and his wife live in Negros Occidental, an island about 250 miles south of Manila. 
Bod Kerr resigned his portion as head coach of Goshen. Ind.. high school to accept an ap­pointment as end coach at Washington University, St. Louis, as assistant to Kitty Gorman. 
Joe Gore is associate editor of the paper pub­lished at Hickam Field. T. H., according to the en^nent Doctor Cooncy. Joe's erstwhile ioumalism chief. 
Pfc. Ccb McCanna left Fort Shendan, 111., two weeks before Ctiristmas. His present address is 210th G. A. (A.A.). Hq. Btry., 2nd Bn.. APO 309, Fort Lewis. Wadi. 
JadE Pindar left Fort Benning, Ga., to enter Officers Training School at Lomsville, Ky. Myltu Walsh is now stationed at Maxwell Field. Ala. 
Dave MeskiU writes that Sergeant Tom Schmid's address is Quartermaster Detadiment. Army Air Base. Lubbock. Tex. 
1941 Jsha W. Pattenm, Jr^ 553« Dariiac­ton Vd^ Pittikarth. P*. 
The class secretary, Jeim Patterson, Jr., is now a private in the Armjr, and, as snch has had very little time in the course of beins' inducted to gather any class news. Norw tttat John la an Army man, his classmates mi^ t •'••pHfr Ua 
- task of settins out a eohunn tmA aaontii by sending news to him nnsolidted. W» address: Go^ "G", 4th Tmg. Bn., 8rd IntdHsenee Platoon, Camp Wheeler. Ga. 
John was inducted with JaA Mmtevtrd^ 'S8, and Hugo lacovetti, '34. Jack is at Wfaeder in As 3rd Bn.. a heavy weapons unit; Hugo is at Fort Bragg in the artillery. 
Ed Hultsrcn recently left lua acconntins job in the new Studeliaker aviatitm plant in Sooth Bend, to vacation in Florida with his parents and visit a brother in the Army, On his retain from the Southlands, he took a new job in a large Chicago accounting firm. His &iends say he likes it so much he doesn't even know when he's working overtime. 
Phil McCanna is busy over his medical books at Marquette University, while DiA Ball Bearrhn deeper economic knowledge at ^diana Univerdty. 
GeoTgt Reed is a private in Btry. B. 2nd F.A. Observation Bn., Camp Bowie, Tex. Chadc Staple­ton is yet another Army man. 
Bob Saggan, who was inducted into the Naval air corps between halves of the 1941 All-Star football game, made his first solo flight at Glen-view airport in January. 
Matthew Byrnes, Jr.. during January completed his primary and basic flight training at the Navy flying school in Jacksonville. FU.. and is now taking six weeks of advanced training at Mianu where be will learn how to pilot warplanes frcnn the decks of aircraft carriers. 
Brother Theodore, C.S.C who spent from 1929 to 1940 in Dacca. India, and returned for a vaca­tion last year, finishing his bachelor's course dnr* ing 1940-41. was among the Holy Gross mission­aries, priests, brothers, and sisters who were stranded in Manila while on th ^ way to India. 
John Asclage is worldng in Mansfield as an ammunition inspector with a civil service rating. Qiarks Bransfield, ex. '41. now has his enrign's commission and wings in the Naval Reserve Air Corps. He recentiy completed his advanced ur­craft carrier training at the air station near Miami, Fla. 
John Grobmyer has left the Air Corps Replace­ment Training Center at Kelly Field. Tex., with his pre-flight training completed. He will now begin flight training at one of the flying schools in the Gulf Coast area. 
Bill Marsh. Jr.. received his silver wings and a second lieutenant's commission in the Air Corps Reserve at the graduation ceremonies Feb. 6, at Luke Held. Phoenix, Ariz. 
Bill Welsh is now a corporal at Sheppard Field, Tex., handling placement and assignment of 400 recruits. 
John Powers, of Ingalls, Ind.. during February completed his basic flight training at Randolph Field,' Tex. 
Published in the Commonweal for Dec 5, was "Spanish-American Poet," an in­tensive study of the life and ideas of Gabriela Mistral, by Clarence Finlayson, graduate assistant in Spanish at the University. Hr. Finlayson, a Chilean scholar -with an English name^ has for many years been a frequent contribntor to a large number of South American periodicals. 
NOTRE DAME MEMORIES 
(CcatisiMd ttam puft U). 

kovieh was a battering sc^Iiamore back .... everyone was mshingr downtown to see Jean Harlow in "Fbtinnm Blonde" ... . the dirigible Aknm stole the show foom the University's smarUy stepidng­bandsmen at the Diike game.... Hono­gram Absurdities, feataring "Afternoon Becomes Eleclfieity" with Jdmny P ^ nme, played a three-night stand in Washington HalL . . . Marehmcnt Schwarte was pidced mumimonsly on every Ail-American selection and hailed as the greatest back of the year... Joe Knrth and Tom Tarr also enjoyed AQ-American ratings.... "The Spirit of No-' tre Dame," a movie dedicated to Rodme, was released.... many were discussing the practicality of tiie electric raxor which had just been exhibited at tiie Leipzig fair. 
The most talked of feature of the new Alumni Hall was its wall slots for used razor blades.... in old Freshman Hall it was the custom to file these usdesa articles along the wainscoting.... big name bands playing for Notre Dame dances were Ace Brigode, Art Kassel, Herbie Kay, and Gus Amhdm.... girls from St. Mary's could attend a football dance only upon the receipt of a written invitation from a student.... the Fresh-. men were campaigning for a class dance. and the advisability of such a procedure' was the subject of many letters to the Editor.... the brand new "Afana Hatet" song was warmly welcomed by the stu­dent body. 
MRS. DONOGHUE DIES 

Mrs. Mae Anson Dono^ue, University benefactor and member of a prominent Notre Dame family, died on March 2, and was buried in Steveiis Point, Wis., on March 5. 
Bev. Hu|^ ODonnell, C.S.C, president of the University and long time friend of the family, sang the Kequiem Mass.. .The funeral sermon was preached by Bev. Win Kane, S J. 
Mrs. Donoi^ae was the sister of the late George M. Anscm, monogram man of the middle "OOs, and a Lay Trustee of the University. 
In 1928, the Anson family established in himor of the father of tiie family, the Leonard M. Anson scholarship by a gift of 1100,000 to the University, open to young mea of Merrill, Wis., ttie funily hone. One student is selected each year and may hold the scholarship for four years. 
SAVES MONEY and INCREASES OPPORTUNITY 
It saves TIME ­

die three 15-week semesters within the calendar year permit the bachelor's degree in 2 2/3 calendar years. 
the Law degree can be obtained in 10 semesters or 3 1/3 calendar years, and the combination Arts-Law or Commerce-Law degrees in 12 semesters, or 4 calendar years. 
It saves MONEY 

costs have been reduced for the semester, since board and room are figured on a 15-week instead of an 18-week basis. 
the economic waste of long vacations, in many cases with no job for the student, is eliminated. 
the use of the degree is possible a year to two years sooner in entering business, professional or government fields. 
It prevents DELAY and INTERRUPTION ­
die 17-year-old high school graduate can receive his degree, even his law degree, by the time he is eligible for the present military selective service. 
and if he is interrupted for any semester, he can resume—except for one or two specialized upper-class courses—without any sacrifice of time or credit, in any semester thereafter. 
It increases OPPORTUNITY ­
the man with a college degree has additional opportunities in both civil and military life which are, by this new program, extended to the young man of today as well as to those who have had more time to prepare. 
and the young man who must still work his way in part finds that he has a longer period, the semester, in which he can stay out to work, than under the former summer vacation plan. And he can choose, with the freedom of resuming in any semester, that season for remaining out of school which is best suited for profitable employment. 
The next semester opens on May 28, and extends to September 8. 
The semester following opens on September 10, and closes on December 23. 
^o^ jjull mjjO^miailcui,, wMte to-the 
Registrar, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 







