The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Vol. 42 No. 4 
Aug.­Sept. 1964  
! 3^  
AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL Special Recognibon mail. Urn couficrte ol Spcdal Recosnitioo » «w«^ed Xlniwnsity of TtotrcBame y inltte Antcncan Alunuti Coundl Diiect Mail CospetiUoo.  


(» Decision in Denver
 (See pp. 2-3-21) 

August-September, 1964 JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor JOHN F. UUGHLIN, '4B, Managing EdiA REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C, '41, Columnist BRUCE HARLAN, '49, Photographer 
Vol. 42, No. 4 


NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Contents: 
DECISION IN DENVER Your loyalty to Notre Dame received nev^ national recognition 3 
EDITORIAL: IN YOUR CHARITY. Jim Armstrong '25 Apologies to the dead, congratulations to the living 4 
IN MEMORIAM: SISTER MARY MADELEVA CSC '18 Poet-president penned her own poignant obituary 5 
ROCKNE FESTIVAL & FAMILY PICNIC Photographic highlights in o family sampler 6 
WHAT IT TAKES. Rev. Joseph Hoffman CSC '51 Part One of a series on admissions for alumni parents 8 
ALUMNI IN NOTRE DAME FRATERNITIES Deans give requirements of the honorary societies II 

NEWS & WHO'S WHO'S Politician Bill Miller '35, Penologist Ernie Timpani '40, etc. 12 
DOUBLE ALUMNI AT COMMENCEMENT '64 
14 
Trustee Tim Galvin '16, Gen. Jack Gleoson '36, etc. 
UNIVERSITY THEATER REUNION Actors created a "gala" for Rev. Arthur Harvey CSC '47 15 
MAN & THE MOMENT. Rev. Thomas O'Donnell CSC '41 Heroes before Father Sorin & a memorial for today's heroes 16 

ALUMNI IN ART—1 : David Hayes '53, sculptor To Europe v/ith love: on old face in a new series 17 
PORTFOLIO O N PHILANTHROPY Information available on estate planning, matching gifts, etc. 18 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS The Notre Dome Collection, book notes, etc. 
19 
LAW SCHOOL NEWS. Thomas Shaffer L'61 Resuming on interrupted series 20 
CANDID CAMERA ON THE REUNION Ten-page photo essay on jubilees & jamborees, recreations & convocations 21 
NOTRE DAME SPORTS. Charlie Callahan '38 Schedule, statistics and sidelights on Football '64 30 
NOTRE DAME CLUBS Directory, final UND Night pix & a ten-page summer roundup 32 
NOTRE DAME CLASSES Thirty pages of statistics, spotlights, reports & pix 42 



Cover: 
AWARD certificate for a relatively minor achievement in direct moil only serves as a convenient background for the curious object at left, the real star attraction of the 51st General Conference of the American Alumni Council at Denver in July. America's top honor for giving to higher edu­cation, the Alumni Incentive Grand Award trophy (accompanied by $5,000 from the United States Steel Foundation) is based on a topological discovery by the German mathe­matician August Ferdinand Moebius — the never-ending surface. Obvious symbolic con­notations exclude any suggestion of "crook­ed" accounting; our figures were thoroughly audited and found completely "on the level." 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers  
OLIVER  H . HU.MTER  III, '43  
Honorary  President  
PHILIP J. FACCENDA, '51  President  
PETER J. KERNA.V,  JR., '49  #  

Fund Vice-President 
ALBERT D . CASTELUNI, '24 
Club Vice-President 
TIMOTHY J. TOOMEY, '30 
Class Vice-President 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 
Executive Secretary 

Directors to 1965 
.ALBERT D . CASTELLINI, '24 J 506 First National Bank fiuilding. Cincinnati, <^, PHILIP J. FACCENDA, '51 1510 Ogden, LaGrange, HI. PETER J. KERNAN, JR., '49 661 Washington Rd., Grosse Pointe, Mich. TIMOTHY J. TOO.MEY, '30 12 Windcnncre Ave, Arlington 74, ^lass. 

Directors to 1966 
GEORGE A. B'UIISCILLO, JR. '44 444 Golf Rd., Deal Park, N.J. PAUL I. FENLON, '19 141 Sorin Halt, Notre Dame, Ind. MORTON R. GOODMAN, '30 2415 Pilgrimage Trail, Los Angeles 28, Calif. 
W. LANCASTER SMITH, '50 
i
Dallas Athletic Club Building, Dallas 1, Tex. 
Directors to 1967 
THO-MAS P . CARNEY, '37 
202 East 75th St., Indbnapolis 40, Ind. 
BERTRAND D . CO UGH LIN, MJ)., '26 16 Thomdell Dr., St. Louis (Richmond Heights), Mo. 63117 
WILLIAM V. CUDDY, '52 155 Ralph Ave., White Plains, N.Y. HERBERT M . SAMPSON, '50 735 North 57 Ave., Omaha, Neb. 68132 
Chairmen of tlie 1964 Commii ittoefl 
 I. FENLON Academic Affair. '
PAUL Affi 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR Admissions 
PETER J. KERNAN, JR. 
Alumni Fund, Foundation & Gifts 
W. I^ANCASTER SMITH Athletics 
W. LANCASTER SMITH Budget & Finance 
TIMOTHY J. TOOMEY Class Activities 
ALBERT D . CASTELLINI Club Activities 
PHILIP J. FACCENDA Executive PETER J. KERNAN, JR., AND TmoTHY 
J. TOOMEY Nomination 
MORTON R . GOODMAN 
Placement & Job Counseling 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, 
Public Relations @ Development 
PAUL I. FENLON Religion & Citizenship 
MORTON R. GOODMAN Student Affairs 
This niagiTilif a published hinnolithlr hy the UmvctBnr of No m Dame, Notre Dane, Ind. rnteicd as 5econd.class mat­ter Oct. I, 1939, at the Bost Office, Notre Dame, lod., mider the act of Aug. 24, I9I2. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 





Decision in Denver 
yOUR loyalty to Hotre Dame received new national recognition 
ALUMNI Secretary Jim Armstrong (far right) accepts the Grand Award for Improvement in Alumni Giving and Incentive from Dr. Fred Armstrong (no kin, honest!) of 
•' the U.S. Steel Foundation at the 51st General Conference I of the American Alumni Council at Denver, Colo., in July. ^'£he trophy, a continuous strip of stainless steel on a dear plastic base, was accepted for the Notre Dame alumni body, who nearly doubled their participation and quad­rupled their annual gift over the three years of Challenge I. The Moebius strip construction, in the words of Dr. Arm­strong, symbolizes "the continuity of higher education in alumni life and a continuous tradition of loyalty and sup­port for Alma Mater." It is perhaps significant that the award was won by Notre Dame men in a year in which alumni giving became the greatest source of support for American education, exceeding the combined gifts of U.S. corporations and foundations. Notre Dame was also awarded a check for $5,000 and first place among private -;^ universities. New York University received the Grand 
Award for Sustained Performance, a citation for which Notre Dame men will still be eligible and [we trust) deserving in future years for their support to the Challenge II Program. 
ALUMNUS Editor John Laughlin (far left) stood in for a modest Jim Armstrong to accept a second prize at the AAC Conference from Executive Secretary Jack Johnson of AAC national headquarters in Washington, D.C., this time a certificate of special recognition in the alumni direct mail competition. Notre Dame was one of three private universities (the others were Stanford and the University of Chicago) cited for excellence in direct mail campaigns for a special event. With no rela­tion to fund raising or development, the direct mail competition recognizes outstanding efforts in the field of alumni organization. The particular event for which the University received the award was the Alumni Board Reunion in February (see the April-May ALUMNUS, vol. 42, no. 2) to celebrate the Fortieth Anniversary of the Alumni Association's permanent reorganization as a University department in 1924. As in the Incentive Award, the recognition was merited not so much by originality of concept or execution on the port of the Alumni Office as by dramatic response of alumni. An astounding ninety per cent of former Alumni Association directors responded to our invitation for o weekend on the campus they helped to shape. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 


Sdltorial Comment 
from your Alumni Secretary 


IN YOUR CHARITY 
T
HIS FAMILIAR phrase, preceding the for them at length. Why don't I? request to pray for the dead, is Why does Notre Dame seem to end also applicable to a request to apply their careers so abruptly and objec­this charity to the ALUMNUS, and to tively? You, who must wonder, are the brief factual obituaries our circum­entitled to know our problems. stances dictate. The major problem, growing con­
I have known most of those whose stantly, is space. In the June-July issue names appear in each issue. Ahnost of the ALUMNTJS, there were 70 without research I could ^mte eulogies obituary notices. A page could have 
ANNIVERSARIES MBtl^^^^^S 
InJ^^frUj 1964 ^ ^ ^ 
Fr. Misch Fr. Hebert 
GOLDEN JUBILEE 
Father Peter Hebert Father Edgar Misch 
SILVER JUBILEE 
Father Paul Beichner Father F. Frederick Bergmann Father Edmund V. Campers Father William T. Craddick Father Henry A. Geuss Father Casimir Grabarz Father G. Carl Hager Father Thomas E. Hcn-itt Father Joseph Kehoe Father James J. Leahy Father Bernard Niemier Father Vincent Thilman 
Father Leo Wojciechowski 
SILVER JUBILEE BROTHERS {Priests Prorince) 
Brother Honorius Corrigan Brother Melaric Eifel 
EASTERN PROVINCE PRIESTS, SILVER JUBILEE 
Father Joseph Hanna Father Jerome Lawyer Father Dennis Sughrue 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
been written about many of those di 

%y^
ceased, a book about some. Our tot^ 
issue was 72 pages, a large magazine. 
Joe Sullivan, a founding father of our present Alumni Association . . . Father Thomas Burke, the "T.E.B." whose humor and verse enlivened the Chicago Tribune pages for years . . . George Philbrook, Oljonpic decathlon competitor with Jim Thorpe . . . Dan McGl}'nn, who received his degree on a battlefield of World War I from Father Matthew Walsh . . . Van WaW lace, whose acceptance of 40 years or paralysis places him among the great-' est of Notre Dame alumni, and his j mother among the Saints . . . Sr. Marie Angele O'Neill, one of the many nun graduates, whose family represents three generations of outstanding alumni . . . Rev. Richard J. Novak, C.S.C, whose death by accident in the discharge of J his first year duties as a Holy Cross j missionary in Dacca embodies the trad^Ri tions of more than a hundred years . . . Lt. Edwin Shank, Jr., whose death in Viet Nam has spotlighted, through a series of significant letters, the problems that still make martyrs for God, for Country, and for Notre Dame. . . . 
These, chosen from that total list, must bring to you my personal regret that we let them go with so little said. Two things should temper our regr ^ and evoke your understanding. First; the deserved obituary is written large in the hearts and minds of all who knew them. And second, in the happy privilege of Notre Dame teaching, we have not let them go. They remain a vital part of Notre Dame, interceding for us, as we pray for them, that we shall one day again be one great fra­ternity imder Our Lady. 
-^»: 



3n iHemociam: Visiter ill. iHabeletia Woltt, C.^.C, 0LSi. '18 1887=1964 
DETAILS FOR MY BURIAL 
As for the matter of mj' burial, 

It follows hard the golden day I die. There needs but a small grave where I may lie. 
Cut in the snow's white peace I love so well, Or sweetened with young rain,—one cannot tell— But always, always the great, solicitous sky, The quick close earth, and all that live thereby. Dear God, how I desire the consecrate cell! 
It holds divine reprieves, immortal pardons 
FARE WELL 

Whereby my vagabond feet are stricken free; Fare infinitely well. 
You who have valorously dared My fingers busy with mortal gardens This last, unshared. 

Unending and all-perfect quest; 
May plant and pluck to ultimate ecstasy. 
You who at length can tell The things God has prepared Myself? A heavenly tramp in heavenly Ardens! 
Are best. 
;'•;: 


Are best. 

Remember, when you dig a grave for me. 
S.3f.M. 




wmmmM 

Bishop Leo A. Parsley of Fort Wayne-Sonth Bend gives the final absolution at the grave of tiie beloved poet and former president of St. Slary's College on July 29, assisted by Fathers Joyce and Soleta, vice-presidents of Xotre Dame. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964
^^B^ 

THE SPIRIT OF AN IMMORTAL LIFEGUARl WATCHED OVER THREE DAYS OF SUN ANl FUN ON HISTORIC CEDAR POINT PENINSUL/ 
FIREWORKS display on Monday night culminated with a gigantic 
set piece depicting the immortal 
Norwegian (center of the trio in 
the corner) who dreamed of glory 
as a student lifeguard on the 
same beach over 50 years before. 
Before it started to burn out (at 
left) it was visible for miles 
along the shores of Lake Erie. 



Knute Rockne Festival anc 
PRINCIPALS (l.-r., foreground) were Cleveland Club President Dick Miller, Co-Chairman Don Miller, Cedar Point Manager Rider Neff, and Co-Chairman John Chapla. Behind are kibitzers Krause and Ray. 
GALA BUFFET on Monday night drew alumni together from all over Ohio. Future annual events at the site will be within easy driving distance for 5,000 Notre Dame men. 
CHILDREN enjoyed special bargain rates on the Cedar Point Funway, a gigantic mid­way with nearly 100 attractions. Especially popular were the Skyride (right), the Mill­race (in which the kids plummeted splashily through blue-tinted water in hollow logs), and the heart-stopping Blue Streak roller coaster. Blending thrills and education were turnpikes featuring real 1910 Cadillac surreys and jaunty midget sports cars; a simulated frontier wilderness through which the youngsters rode in authentic narrow-gauge trains, bumpy stagecoaches and pad­dle-wheel riverboats, braving realistically animated perils such as burni?ig outposts, Indian ambushes and attacks of marauders. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
« 
HOTEL Breakers (left) re­served rooms, recreation areas for alumni families and was the site of the opening Mass on Sunday. 
SPECIAL guests included (l.-r.) Fr. Lou Thorn­ton, CSC, Coach John Ray, Atli. Dir. Edward Krause and James E. Armstrong. 

FOOD, for those who didn't bring their own picnic baskets, was available at modest prices everywhere from hotel restaurants to midway stands and colorful spots like the Te.xas barbecue and Silver Dollar Cafe, tend­ed by misses like Bonnie Rockne in 1913. 

r otre Dame Family Picnic 
SANDS of Cedar Point, which felt the scampering feet of Knute Rock7ie and Gus Dorais as they developed the forward pass to an essential art of modern football, have borne the footprints of three more generations of Notrt 
:i
Dame athletes since they were first patrolled by Harry and Walter Miller in the first decade of this century. For three sunny days in July they were sifted by scores of ND families, and now they boast a new bronze plaque (not shown in these snapshots) donated by the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland to commemorate a historic event. 
CS 

HARRY STUHLDREHER, quarterback of Rockne's Four 
Horsemen, joined fellow Horsemen Don Miller and Jimmy 
(Sleepy) Crowley in speaking at the dedication of the Rockne 
plaque in the hotel rotunda on Tuesday. Ailing Elmer 
Layden hoped to make future editions of the event. All 
but Crowley were Cedar Point employees during summer 
vacations throughout playing days under Rock in the 20's. 
1® 
YOUNG & OLD were enthralled by anecdotes about Rock from men who knew him as a player and as a professor, coach and chemist, a strategic genius and genuine, straightforward American. Future generations to whom he might only have been a name may feel his influence through the plaque and Rockne Days at Cedar Point. 

"^ 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
Part One of a series for alumni parents on t 



WHAT IT TAKES 
to get their children into college in general and Notre Dame in particular < By Rev. Joseph W. Hoffman, C.S.C., '51, Acting Director of Admissions 
X wouldn't want your job!" "I 
certainly don't emy you!" — these and 
similar comments have been addressed 
to me since I came into the Admissions 
Office in Januarj', 1964. Such soUd 
recommendation might make one pause 
before becoming an admissions officer. 
At least these statements show a more 
sjTnpathetic appreciation of the prob­
lems than a cheerj' "congratulations on 
the promotion." 
When Father James E. Moran, our Director of Admissions, became tempo­rarily incapacitated last November, I was called upon to act in his stead dur­ing the interini. Since no one could ac­curately predict how soon Father Moran would recover, I offered a countersuggestion. I thought the posi­tion demanded someone more accus­tomed to meeting daily frustration, one whose undaunted optimism could over­come frequent setbacks, one who could witlistand tension and trial with equa­nimity, in a word, a White Sox fan. My motion was voted down. The job was mine. 
What follows in this and succeeding articles is neither an excuse nor an apology. Alibis always rankle, and the disappointment of parents and sons is not consoled by regrets, however tact­fully they are expressed. ^Ve shall in­stead try to describe in general what happens when the high school senior files application for admission, and in particular when he applies to Notre Dame. 
Is There Room For Me? 
Contrary to popular opinion, it is easier to get into college today than ever before. That opinion was voiced last April by Mr. James K. Hitt, presi­dent-elect of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. Mr. Hitt explained further that more and more public colleges are being 
built. The idea that it is difficult to get 
into college stems from the high number 
of rejections by prestige private schools, 
such as the Iv)' League institutions. 
To be sure, the Ivy League schools still receive a great number of applica­tions for their few available spaces. In the spring of 1964 more than 44,000 applications were filed for their 9,075 spaces. They accepted 13,800, since oversubscription is a matter of policy to compensate for the multiple applica­tions which students make. By no means are all schools so competitive, and many never meet their freshman quota. We must agree \vith Mr. Hitt when he says: "There are many good schools with openings. They may not have the prestige or as large public relations staffs as some, but they prowde thor­oughly good educations." 

Notre Dame stands somewhere be­tween the extremes. Because of the post­war baby boom, admission officers ex­pect that in the years 1964 and 1965 half of the doubling of college enroll­ment in this decade will take place. While BroxxTi and Pennsylvania had a 25% increase in the number of applica­tions, Han'ard and Notre Dame saw but a 10% increase. Last spring we re­ceived nearly 4,200 applications for the 1,500 spaces in our freshman year. These figures prove only that competi­tion is keen at some schools, and hence tliey must not be misread by the public as evadence that all colleges are or will be closed to many high school grad­uates. The case of New Jersey is extra­ordinar)'. Here more than half the high school graduates must go out of the state for their college career since there are not enough spaces in the New Jersey colleges to meet the needs of the state. More and more should these stu­dents look to the west and even far west for possible institutes to continue their education. 
(Wherever apphcations outniunber aivmlable spaces, competition and selec­tivity -vAW play important roles in de­termining who will enter that college. Almost as much attention must b P given to the other fellow's record as to one's own achievement in high school. Since the school cannot admit all its qualified candidates, only the most quahfied will be taken. This is a most important aspect of admissions today and one that is far too little imderstood by alumni and others who are inter­ested in Notre Dame. The day seems past when a high school diploma and a desire for Notre Dame were sufficient to guarantee admission. To be sure, th " norms for admission have risen. The college ciuriculum is under constant re­vision; self-study committees and re-e\'aluation programs are as frequent at the Universit)' as fund drives. Yet the most dramatic thrust forward in educa­tion has been on the secondary level. 
What High Schools Have Been Doing 
Quite recently the nation's secondarj^ schools, occasional whipping boys of spokesmen for higher education, were praised by the president of the Uni­versity of Wisconsin, Dr. Fred M. Har­rington. He was voicing the opinion of many when he said: "The college stu­dents we are getting today are better than ever. The high schook are better, the students are better prepared, more wilUng to work. They realize that lif^ is serious and they have to be pre­pared." Many educators would agree mth him that high schools still have a long way to go before they are as good as we want them to be, but the same can be said for our colleges and universities. 
The rising level of high school in­struction is manifest in many ways. More high schools are offering college level courses in such subjects as calculus 
 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
FATHER HOFFMAN took over the Admissions Office when Father James Moran became ill last fall. Ordained in Rome in 1954, he received his doctor­ate in sacred theology from the Pontifi­cal Gregorian University in 1957. At Notre Dame he has been a rector and assistant professor of theology. Most recently he served as assistant to the vice-president for student affairs. Fa­ther Charles McCarragher. 

''We earnestly recommend that the high-school stu­
and physics. In place of traditional science courses many high schools now offer their better students the physics course recommended by the Physical Science Committee Study (PSCS) and its counterparts in mathematics, chem­istry and biolog)'. More high schools are offering foreign languages, and more students enroll in such courses. Increas­ing use of ability grouping, the assign­

(^ent of pupils to different classes ac­cording to their intellectual capacity, is heightening competition and speed­ing the pace at which bright students can learn. 
Many educators also single out the College Entrance Examination Board's Advanced Placement Program as one of the most influential forces in the im­provement of the nation's high schools. 

<jpn the basis of special College Board exams, 765 colleges and universities in­cluding Notre Dame now grant college credit, advanced course placement or even sophomore standing for work com­pleted in high school. The number of students taking tlie tests soared to about 29,000 this school year, up from 21,769 last year and 1,229 in 1956, the first year that the program moved beyond the pilot stage. 
'^ The program has had a major im­pact on high schools because many of tliese institutions are working hard to prepare their students for the tests, usually by offering college level courses. Over 2,000 high schools now cooperate in the Advanced Placement Program. 
Mathematics, English and Language 
Mathematics is one of the fields of igh school study in which the gains 


dent work closely with 
have been particularly dramatic in re­
cent years. The number of high schools 
offering calculus has tripled in the past 
five years according to an estimate of 
the assistant director of the Advanced 
Placement Program. Columbia Univer­
sity reports that one-third of the class 
starting the freshman year in the fall 
will have studied calculus, up from one-
sixth of the freshman class six years 
ago. 
In high school English the trend is to more composition assignments on more taxing subjects than in the past; a cri­tical examination of the nature of evil in Hamlet and Macbeth often .sup­plants a lightweight essay on "How I Spent My Summer Vacation." Drill in English composition, a field college in­structors have long thought particu­larly neglected by high schools, has been intensified in many school systems. 
At least as much emphasis has been placed on foreign language instruction. By 1962 roughly one in three high school students were studying a foreign language, compared with fewer than one in four in 1958. About one-third of high school modem language students now continue their language studies beyond the standard t\vo years, far more than took advanced courses a few years ago. 
Educators are impressed witli high school students' abilities to absorb hea\'>' doses of advanced subject mat­ter. High school teachers are getting away from the notion that an assign­ment suitable for college freshmen is impossible for high school students a year younger. Too long were high school students left unchallenged; too long were the better students held back by standard courses below their poten­tial; too long were students left without impetus toward intellectual growth. 
Of course, hundreds of schools still 


his counselor . . . " 

do sell their students short. Critics say that many schools remain almost im­touched by the drive for excellence. Education experts say that small town schools often lack the library and lab­oratory facilities, let alone the teachers, to provide strong programs for bright students. 
There are also wide variations in the caliber of high schools from (xie part of the country to another. Schools in New York spend $750 per pupil com­pared with under $200 in Alabama. In Connecticut, foreign language enroll­ments total 66% of the high school population; the figure for both Alabama and Mississippi is 7%. 
Naturally, college courses were re­vised in order to meet the improved prep­aration which high school students were bringing to their classes. Con­sequently, it is essential that the Ad­missions Officer be aware of the prep­aration or lack of it in those candi­dates who seek admission to programs which presume a solid preparation, in particular those in mathematics and the physical sciences. By the same token, candidates for admission must be en­couraged and helped to make a realistic appraisal of their background and abili­ties in the fight of the norms of the col­leges to which they are applying. The best prospect for a successful and fruit­ful college experience is found when the college and the student have been care­fully matched. We earnestly recom­mend that the high school student work closely with his counselor, who knows his ability and through whom he can find a suitable college. 
The Notre Dame Situation 
A young man's success in college will depend on his intellectual ability, his achievement in school, his motivation 
(Concluded overleaf) 

Notrt Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 



WHAT IT TAKES 
''. . . the ideal applicant should have time for books, for fun and for prayer, 
and should give hi7nself completely to each in its time and place." 
or will to win over obstacles, and his selection of the proper college program. 
Intellectual capacity is measured by the College Board tests. We have passed over the Aptitude Test for two reasons: first, because these tests have received far more emphasis than they deser\'e, so that many students believe that their acceptance or rejection is based on this factor alone; secondly, in the judgment arrived at by the Committee on Ad­missions at Notre Dame the most im­portant single item is the high school record. Hence we have stressed the high school program, because with our limited number of spaces we must give preference not only to those students who show promise, but to those who have both promise and achievement. 
When we review the high school rec­ord we look to the kind of program the student has followed, his academic aver­age, his rank in class, and the recom­mendation given him by his principal or counselor. We want to know whether his program has been a preparation for college, whether he has completed that course with some degree of success. From the rank in class, the extracur­ricular activities, and the recommenda­tions from the high school we try to evaluate a candidate's motivation. Ex­cessive social or athletic activities \vill not offset a low average, nor will a "straight A" transcript offset a total neglect of social life or healthy sports interest. In other words, the ideal api­plicant should have time for books, for play, for fun and for prayer, and should give himself completely to each in its time and place. 
We have reprinted for your informa-

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION 
ARTS AND LETTERS or BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
GROUP I (9 units required) Englkh History Algebra Geometry, Plane Science (Lab.) Language, Foreign 
GROUP II (3 units scquircd) 3 1 1 1 I 2 
ENGINEERING  
or  
SCIENCE  
GROUP I  (1I}4 units required)  
English  3  
Algebra and Geometry  3  
Trigonometry  'A  
Language .  2  
Historj'  1  
Chemistry  1  
Physics  1  
GROUP II  (3/2 units required)  


May be made up in any combination from additional English, Mathematics, Science, History, and Language, provided that the Language must be ttvo or more units unless is is a continuation of the Language offered under GROUP I. 
GROUP III GROUP III units not permitted Commercial, vocational, music, art, for Science or Engineering and similar subjects credited toward graduation. 
Minimiun of 13 units total. Minimum of 13 units total. 
The Unit is the credit for a year of satisfactory work in an accredited secondary schooL 
The two units required in a language must be in the same language. 
tion the list of required units of credit 
for admission to Notre Dame. English 
and mathematics are the most impor­
tant subjects for all students. For those 
students interested in Engineering and 
Science, both chemistry and physics ar^ 
indispensable high school courses. Two 
years of any foreign language, whether 
classical or modem, is sufficient to meet 
the requirement in that area. If a stu­
dent can take only three years in a 
foreign language, it is preferable for 
him to have all three years in the same 
language. If he is able to take four 
years of language study, he may divide 
those years equally between two foreign 
languages; similarly no preference is 
given to either German, French, oC 
Spanish. 
In selecting extracurricular activities we recommend that the student choose two or three significant ones which will enable him to develop both social re­sponsibility and a spirit of sacrifice. Since talent and natural inclination are most important here, it is not wise for us to lay down specific activities in any general recommendation. ^ 
Academic achievement is measurea by high school grades — not by the senior year only — but taking into con­sideration the previous years too. In the evaluation of grades, the size of the high school attended, honors courses, and the academic load are taken into account. An "A" in Physical Education -vvill not offset a "D" in English or Math. The average will be based on the academic subjects (English, Math, Science, Larl9 guage, and History). 
In the next issue we shall discuss the special problem of the College Board Scholastic Aptitude Test. We shall also have some comments on the selection of the right college course. Both of these topics will be considered in the light of current Notre Dame standards. 
Next issue: "The Freshman Profile." 
JO Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 1964 
-C!ABrAEZHeiKA]MNEOnP2TT^X^IlABrAEZHeiKAMNEOnP2TT*X^n > 
X n 
> 
m 
CS) 
<s 

ALUMNI MEMBERSHIP IN THE > 

NOTRE DAME FRATERNITIES lU 
< 
o a
© 
M 
^

A number of inquiries from alumni have dealt was in the top fifth of hb senior class, and was 
< 

with the eligibility of alumni for the several honorar)' graduated prior to 1960. Already 35 to 40 former •9 fraternities now having Chapters at Notre Dame. students have been so elected. X Here are, in brief, some answers, which can be pur­>^ 
"Others — usually a person is eligible for election sued by interested alumni through the Deans of the to these honorary societies if he would have been >respective Colleges. 
eligible as a student. Also they may generally be 
initiated at any university having a Chapter, although 
•e->
PREPROFESSIONAL STUDIES they automatically become members of the Chapter at the school from which they graduated. Any in­
Alpha Epsilon Delta (international premedical terested alumnus can be put in touch with the ap­
honor society) : "Fonner students of Notre Dame in w 
propriate faculty advisor." 0 the educational or professional fields, whom the (Material from Dean Norman Gay, Engineering.) 
Chapter deems worthy of membership are eligible 
for active alumnus status if elected by the Chapter. > 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION HONORARIES 
This means that former students who would have been eligible if tlie Chapter had been in existence at Beta Alpha Psi (Accountancy): Limited to: (1) < the time of their attendance at the University or who imdergraduates; (2) graduates; (3) faculty holding m 
o

have distinguished themselves in a professional field full-time position on the accounting faculty; and, (4) 
a

after graduation are eligible for active alumnus status. honorary membership granted to any prominent prac­© However, I should point out that the constitution ticing accountant who is either a CPA or a member M
X limits each Chapter to no more than two active of the AICPA or to any prominent accountant. 
sj 

alumni members in any one academic year." (Letter If alumni believe they qualify under (4), they to Associate Dean Lawrence Baldinger from AED.) 
< 

should submit a resume to Professor Raymond Powell 
X

for presentation to the Chapter nominating com­
a 

ENGINEERING HONORARIES 
mittee. In Engineering, the following societies now have >
Beta Gamma Sigma (Business Administration):
Chapters at Notre Dame: a
"Subsection 4, paragraph 2: Each subsequent year Tau Beta Pi — all engineering departments and (after the local Chapter has been installed) the local > Chapter may initiate one alumnus member (only one 
architecture. 

alumnus member may be initiated each year under M Pi Tau Sigma — mechanical engineering. 
this paragraph and a maximum of one alumnus mem­K 
Eta Kappa Nu — electrical engineering. 0
ber may be initiated from any class) who is an out­Chi Epsilon — civil engineering. standing member of a class which was graduated )-H 
W

O Alpha Sigma Mu — metallurgical engineering. prior to the time that the local Beta Gamma Sigma 
>

Chapter was installed. [Allows one per year.] 
"The by-laws of these organizations differ some­
2: 

what with respect to retroactive membership, for ex­"Subsection 5. Local Chapter Honorary. Any per­
m

ample: sons who have achieved distinction in business and 
o

who possess those qualities that Beta Gamma Sigma 
"Alpha Sigma Mu has no provision for alumni a
fosters may be elected to honorary membership in 
members. However, it is always possible to be nomi­•a
© 

the local Chapter provided not more than one such 
nated for the grade of Honorary Member for out­honorary member be elected in any one year by any standing professional achievement. 
one local Chapter." -}
a 

"Tau Beta Pi applicant will be considered if he (Material from Dean Thomas Murphy.) •& 
X 

,<ABrAEZHeiKAMNEOnP2TT<I>X>I'nABrAEZH0IKAMNEOnP2TT*X^n 
•^ 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 11 
BILL MILLER AND FAMILY had this fonnal portrait taken at their summer home on Lake Ontario shortly after he won the Republican >icc-presidcntial nomination. Bill (holding 3-ycar-old daughter Stephanie) stands beside daughter Mary Karen, 
17. Seated (l.-r.) are son Bill, 5; Mrs. Miller (Stephanie); Elizabeth .-Vnne, 20. 
WILLIAM MILLER 35: Barry's Battling Barrister 
W
HE.N SENATOR Barr>- Goldwater called Congressman William E. Miller on July 15 and asked him if he'd care to "come along" as Republican vice-presidential nom­inee on " a long walk" to the 1964 presi­dential election, the decision was reportedly based on Bill Miller's reputation as an in­defatigable fighter and his popularity as GOP national chainnan since 1961. But Goldwater's choice of the scrapjiy New Yorker as a running mate certainly didn't discount Bill's oilier obvious credentials: a victory record of seven terms in the House, a trial lawj'er's wit and eloquence, a u-arm and dapper manner, a strikingly attractive family and — not least —• the purported "luck of the Irish" (Bill is a graduate of the ND Class of '35). 
All these elements have been called into play by the Goldwater-Miller ticket since their war councils in Tucson, .Arizona, in a no-quarter campaign that has seen daugh­ters Elizabeth .-^nne and Mary Karen beating the Western brush with the Gold\«iter sons while Bill and wife Stephanie rented an Electra turbojet for a 50-state barnstorming tour. 
Starting in his home town of Lockport, N.Y., Bill hit his stride mth a Labor Day address in his second home. South Bend, cutting short his conferences with local GOP chieftains for a visit with Notre Dame friends and promising to return for the Purdue game Oct. 3. 
The appearance will be Bill's sL\th at Notre Dame since he returned for his Silver Jubilee Reunion in June, 1960. He was a luncheon guest of the .-Mumni Office staff in September of 1961, addressed a Universal Notre Dame Night of the St. Joseph Valley ND Club in May of 1962 and lectured on the campus in May of 1963. The most re­cent "nonpolitical" appearance was in 
March of this year to address the students' Mock Republican National Convention. 
Bill is best remembered by professors at .•Mma Mater for his keen mind and his prowess at bridge. Fathers Frank Cavanaugh and Tom Brennan, C.S.C., and Prof. Lee Flatley, a former faculty member, ofteil completed a. foursome during Bill's college days and recall many fast-paced rubbers enlivened by his quick mentality. .And Father Tom McAvoy, C.S.C., rector of .Alumni Hall during Bill's junior year of residence there, recalls him as "a sharp, likeable fellow who knew how to take care of himself." 
This assessment is reflected in Bill's major extracurricular activities while on campus. He was chairman of the Blue Circle honor society, a member of the varsity debatingi team, chainnan of the Junior Prom and Sophomore Cotillion — all marks of the campus politico. 
.As a bachelor of arts from ND, Bill went on to the Albany Law School of Union Uni­versitj*, .Albany, N.Y., where he received a bachelor of laws degree in 1938. Classmates there recall him as "brilliant . . . alert . . . one of the ablest minds in the class .. . a good conversationalist" who "could talk on his feet better than anyone else in the class*' and who "didn't study as hard as some oS the other fellows in the class; he didn't have to." Most thought him destined for trial work but weren't surprised that he went into Congress. 
He was admitted to the New York bar in October, 1938, and began his practice in Lockport the same year. Soon he was ap­pointed U.S. Commissioner for the Western District of New York, a post he held until July, 1942, when he was inducted into the .Army as a private. 
.After completing basic training with the 

76th Infantr)' at Fort Meade, Md., Bill was 
assigned to Militar\- Intelligence and ser\'cifl 
there until selected for officer candidate 
school at the Judge .Advocate General office, 
.Ann -Arbor, Mich., in January-, 1945. Fol­
lowing graduation in May, 1945, he was 
commissioned a first lieutenant and was as­
signed to the -Army's war criminals branch 
in Washington, D.C. In .August, 1945, he 
was named assistant prosecutor to the late 
Supreme Court Justice Robert A. Jackson. 
In this post he played a major role in the 
prosecution of Nazi war criminals during the 
historic trials of Nuremberg, Germany. 
In March, 1946, Bill resumed his la ^ practice and on Januar>' 1, 1948, was ap­pointed by Gov. Thomas E. Dewey to fill a \*acanc>' as district attorney for Niagara County, N.Y. He was elected to that post in November of the same year and on Nov. 7, 1950, was elected to the 82nd Congress, where he is now in his seventh terra as rep­resentative of New York's 40th congressional district. 
For leadership in GOP affairs. Bill was selected by his colleagues in Januar>-, 1960, as chairman of the National Republicaj^ Congressional Committee, succeeding th™ late Rep. Richard Simpson of Pennsylvania. During his first year on the job the Repub­lican Party recaptured 21 House seats. This success and his devotion to party affairs won him reelection as committee chairman in Januar}-, 1961, and election in June of the same year as chairman of the GOP National Committee. 
Representative Miller is married to the former Stephanie Wagner of Lockport. They have four children: Elizabeth -Anne, 20; Mary Karen, 17: Bill, Jr., 5; and Stephanie Catherine, 3. ^ 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
(ERNEST TIMPANI '40: Progressive Penologist 
E. C. TIMPANI, AB, LLB, MS: He Runs the Most Modem Prison in the U.S. Just completed in Shelton, Wash., is the $14-mil­lion Washington Corrections Center, a unique prison designed for rehabilitation and the most modern correctional institution in the 
U.S. Superintendent of the center is Ernest Timpani, formerly in charge of the Monroe Reformatory', praised for its change from a 

. fi'custodial" to a "progressive" system. 
A la>v>'er too, Ernie received his Notre Dame AB in 1941 and LLB in 1942, but still feels that his four-year class is 1940 as he was enrolled in a combination AB-law course. He got his MSE from ND in cor­rectional administration in 1950. In 1949 he married Betty Byers of Lansing, Mich., and they now have eight children, six boys and two girls: Mar>- Jo.'\nn, 14; Michael, 12; Mark, 10; Patrick, 9; Ernest, 8; Maril>Ti, 7; John, 6, and Joseph 1/:. Ernie's military sen'ice experience included three and a half years in World War II with the 83rd Infantry Division. Two years overseas won five cam­paign stars, two Bronze Star medals and a battlefield commission. 
Twenty years' experience in various aspects of correctional administration, including prisons and parole, began with prison work in his native Michigan, where he received basic training in penology. Later he worked for several years with the Indiana Correc­tions Department where he served as the director of classification and treatment for the various correctional institutions. 
For the past six years he has been located in the State of \Vashington where he was superintendent of the Washington State Re­formator>- at Monroe for five years. On July 1, 1963, he was selected to be super­intendent of the newly created ^Vashington Corrections Center at Shelton, scheduled to be opened in October. 
Betty Timpani attended Siena Heights College at Adrian, Mich., and is a former medical librarian. Enjoying sports of all types, the Timpanis just finished a Litde League season with many of the boys par­ticipating. They have three horses, and all of the children are getting to be experi­enced riders. 
Ernie is a member of the .\merican Cor­rectional .-Vsjociation and is on two national committees, the Committee on Correctional Training Standards and the Committee for Juvenile Adolescent Offenders. 

TEN TIMPANIS, rounded up for a recent family portrait, arc (from left) Marilyn, 
Mary Jo.'Vnn, Mrs. (Betty) Timpani holding Joseph, Ernest Jr., Michael, John, 
Mark, Ernest Sr., and Patrick. Father is obviously an experienced administrator. 
1> 
Notre 

J^ews Ji Who's Who's 
t—sa.^^ 
RICHiVRD A. ROSENTHAL '34, AUBREY C. LEWIS '58, RAY T. MIL­LER JR. '51, GERARD A. (TONY) BILL '62 and PATRICK W. NEE '61: Out­standing Young Men of America. The alumni named above were among those selected for inclusion in the 1965 edition of Outstanding Young Men of America. Dick Rosenthal, the basketballer of course, is a civic institution as president of South Bend's St. Joseph Bank & Trust; Aubrey Lewis, former football scatback, is an out­standing representative of his race as an FBI special agent in Cincinnati; Ray Mil­ler, scion of a famous tribe, has scored in his own right as a Cleveland executive and Ohio legislator; Tony Bill has achieved secure star status in Holly^vood after fea­tured roles in such solid hits as Come Blow Your Horn and Soldier in the Rain; and Pat Nee has broken all records as a legis­lator in the Commonwealth of Massa­chusetts. 

Selections for this were made by a thirteen-man national board of editors. Doug Blankenship, past U.S. Jaycee presi­dent (1962-63) who is senang as chairman of the board, stated that men were selected between the ages of twenty-one and thirty-six who "had distinguished themselves in one or more fields of endeavor to the point of being outstanding." 
Outstanding Young Men of America is an annual biographical compilation of young men of outstanding rank throughout the country. Nominees for the book come from many sources; however, the majority of the nominations are made by Junior Chamber of Commerce chapters and College Alumni .Associations. 
The Junior Chamber of Commerce has long been active in the recognition of out­standing achievement among America's young men. Eash year since 1938 the Jay­cees have selected the Ten Outstanding Young Men of America. Among past TOVM winners arc such famous personali­ties as John F. Kennedy LLD'50 (1946); Nelson Rockefeller (1941); Dr. Tom Dooley '48 (1956); and Henr>- Ford, II (1945). The publication Outstanding Young Men of America will feature the 1965 TOYM winners. Winners of state Outstanding Young Men awards will be pictured throughout the book. President Lyndon B. Johnson will write the foreword for the 1965 edition. 
THOMAS P. LISTON '40: Football Squad to P-47 Squadron to Squad of Stores. Formerly spotlighted as a department store e-xecutive in Chicago's Mandel Brothers, New York's Bloomingdalc's and Rochester's Sibley, Lindsay & Curr, Tom Liston has been toasted by the Peoria press in his fifth year as president of Bergner's, Peoria's larg­est department store with ten branches throughout Illinois. The former Notre Dame end has the DFC and several other citations for his service as a fighter pilot in World War II. 
Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 13 





ALUMNI STAR IN '64 COMMENCEMENT 
T
HE UNr\'ERSrn''s II9th Commencement (see 
NOTRE DAME, summer issue) had a strong Pan-American accent, with such honorary degree recipients as Cardinal Silv-a of Chile, Archbishop Miranda of Mexico and Rafael Caldera of Venezuela — as well as Latin-American specialists from the U.S. State Department and Columbia University. But the Yankee delegation was equally strong, wt h the Alumni Association represented by two outstanding members — Timothy P. Galvin '16 and John 
S. Gleason Jr. '36. Mr. Galvin, approaching half a century of distinguished service to the law in Hammond, Ind., had an LL.D. added 
to his Notre Dame LL.B. for equally distinguished service to the University as an alumni member of the Board of Lay Trustees. A director of many charitable and religious institutions, including the national weekly Our Sunday Visitor, he is a former deputy supreme knight of the Knights of Columbus. 
General Gleason, honored for his government service, has received a direct presidential commendation for his conscientious performance as administrator of tlie gigantic Veterans Administration. A former Chicago banker and national commander of the American Legion, he remains an active alumnus in Washington, D.C., and was chairman of this year's local observance of Universal Notre Dame Night in the District. 
For other alumni implications at graduation, see below. 
FATHER HESBURGH (center) con­giatulates a distinguished pair o! lionorary doctors who also happen to be fcUon­aluinni: Brig. Gen. John S. Gleason Jr. 
(left), head of the Veterans Administra­tion, had earned the praise of President Johnson for his constant effort to improve benefits and services to former American fighting men since his appointment by President Kennedy over three years ago; and Timothy P. Galvin (right), a Notre Dame trustee, was also recently honored by a statewide testimonial dinner of the ^ Knights of Columbus for past outstanding service as a grand knight and national officer of the Catholic laymen's order. 
FAMILY .\FFAIR in a physical and spir­itual sense as well as from the point of view of an academic community, the event brought together (from left): Sbter Jean Vianney Wallace CSC, Ph.D. '64 in philosophy; her father, John S. Wallace of Glendale, Calif., A.B.'27, LL.B.'28; and her godfather, Tim Galvin of Ham­mond, Ind., LL.B. '16, LL.B.'64, Dire predictions to the contrary notwithstand­ing, each commencement sees an in­creasing number of alumni sons and grandsons (not to mention daughters and and granddaughters) receiving sheep­skins from Alma Mater and adding their names to the alumni rolls beside Dad's. 

f Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September. 1964 
CAST, crew and advisors of the University Theater posed at the Morris Inn at the end of their three-day reunion on the campus. 
Theater Remion 'Ga\a' Fetes Director's lOth 
U
NiVERSiTv- THEATER alumni re­cently held the first known reunion of thespians in more than a centur)' of drama at Notre Dame, 
r Actors who had appeared in the University Theater productions over the last 10 years staged a reunion in June on the campus to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the director, Rev. Arthur 
S. Har\'ey, C.S.C. 
The obser\'ance closed with a dinner in the Morris Inn and a "theater gala" in Washington Hall, scene of the Uni­versitj' Theater's productions. 
It was an evening of memories, high points of the dramas, the comedies and 

tfpthe musicals Father Har\'ey has di­rected. Many of the principals were present and re-created the roles they had played. Other high points were on tape and were played back. 
Perform Hit Tunes 
Among those there to perform were Suzanne Brown Bapst to sing again "How Are Things in Glocca Morra" from Finian's Rainbow, and Bob Vrancken to join Mrs. Bapst to sing 

'.t«"That Old Devil Moon." Anne Rody Cooney, the Laurie of Oklahoma! was back to sing "People ^Vill Say We're in Love," and Barbara Benford Traffi­canda, the production's Ado Annie, sang her hit tune, "I Can't Say No." 
Eleanor Murphy Glockner and John 

W. Toth were back to sing "Fancy Forgetting" from The Boy Friend, and Mrs. Trafficanda and Jim Cooney re­jncreated the comedy number "It's Never Too Late to Fall in Love." Mrs. Cooney and Mrs. Glockner did another hit from The Boy Friend, "Poor Little Pierete." 
Reads Othello Soliloquies 
Fred Gade, a member of The Most Happy Fella cast, sang "Love and Kindness," and James Loula read two of his soliloquies from Othello. Cooney, Angela Schreiber, David Clennon and David Garrick did a scene from Long Day's Journey Into Night. 

'9 
John Patrick Hart and Garrick did ­a song, "Plant a Radish," from The Fantasticks; Aphrodite Pappas did a scene from The Visit with David Clen­non, and Garrick and Barbara Quinn performed a scene from Tartuffe. 
The program closed with scenes from the 10th anniversary production My Fair Lady, with Clennon, Garrick and Hildegarde Vargyas performing. 
It also was a 10th anniversary for Fred Syburg who Joined the theater staff wth Father Harvey and directed several of the plays recalled in the pro­gram. He served as master of cere­monies for the "gala." 
Mrs. Bernard Barth and the late 
Afr. Bernard Barth Rev. George Bernard, CS.C. Dr. and Mis. Charles A. Biondo Mr. and Mrs. William Cole Mr. and Mrs. Edward Doyle Rev. Eugene Gorski, CS.C. Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Hamilton Mr. John Patrick Hart The late Rev. Kerndt Healy, C.S.C. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, CS.C. Mr. and Mrs. A. Owen Klein Mr. and Mrs. James M. Lee Rev. Patrick Maloney, CS.C Rev. William McAuliffc, CS.C 

PRESENT AJVD PAST MEMBERS OF THE ADVISORY BOARD 
Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, CS.C. 
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C 
Rev. James O'HaUoran, CS.C. Rev. Daniel O'NeiU, CS.C. 
Mr. and Mrs. Allan Powers 
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Rathbun Mr. and Mrs. Terence J. Spencer Mr, Thomas Stritch Mr. and Mrs. Richard Sullivan Mr, and Mrs. Fred Syburg Rev. John E. Walsh, CS.C. Mr. and Mrs. Paul Walton Mr. and Mrs. Edward Warren Mr. and Mrs. Everett Warren Rev. Jerome J. Wikon, CS.C. 

LOCAL CO»DnTTEE FOB REUNION '64 
Dr. and Mrs. Charles A. Biondo 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Christin Mr. and Mrs. James Cooney Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Hamilton Mr. John Patrick Hart Mr. and Mrs. James Hcrrel Mrs. Pearl Mastak Mr. and Mrs. Rufus Ranch 
Mr. and Mrs. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Schreiber 
Mr. and Mrs. Terence J. Spencer 
Mr. Thomas Stritch 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Sullivan 
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Syburg 
Mr. John Toth 

Miss Hildegarde Vargyas 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Walton Everett Warren 
EDITOR OF THE GREEN RUMOR 
Mrs. Gerald Trafficanda 
Notre Damt Alumnus, August-September, 1964 15 
.. . to renew our sense 

MAN and the 
MOMENT 
of history 

By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., '41 
 HAS BEEN asked many times why 

I
T Father Sorin ever built Notre Dame in such a faraway noplace as South Bend. First of all. South Bend is a nice cit>'. The fact that a few industries have left town does not mean the place is dead or d}'ing. Far from it Many parts of the country have this same problem. For other areas I cannot speak, but folks from this area are a hardy people. They are like the pioneers of old who traded with the Indians along the banks of the St. Joseph River. The people who live here \vill overcome their problems. They will continue to make this area, this valley, a great place in which to live. 
Why did Father Sorin ever come to South Bend? Before we get into this it is best to take a look at the territory around Notre Dame. 
The Beginnings 

Indiana became a state on December 11, 1816. That is a "far piece" back — as they say. As originally admitted into the Union the north line of Indiana -was con­tinuous with that of Ohio. This meant that Indiana would have no real port on Lake Michigan, so the Indiana line was moved ten miles farther north. Such , a change was not done without a great fight and much bargaining. This was the "ten-mile purchase" — a great break for Indiana. 
Now turn the clock back to 1673. The great Jesuit missionary Father Marquette was the first white man in this area. He had come up the Illinois and Kankakee rivers and crossed the portage to the St Joseph River. He did not stay in the area. A Father Allouez, who came later, did stay and became a friend of the Miami and Potawatomi tribes. A man named LaSalle also followed Marquette. He built a fort about three miles north of where Notre Dame now is. This entire area ^vas interest­ing to these explorers because of the rivers, portage convenience, and the Great Lakes. France, at the time, claimed all the territory necessary to connect Canada \vith Louisiana. To solidify this she established lines of forts, trading posts, and Indian mission churches. This territory around what is now South Bend and Notre Dame was well known to explorers. It was good "portage" country. Canoes could be moved %vith not too much difficulty from the ^vaters of the Great Lake Basin to those of the Mississippi Valley. It is with a sense of history that this coimty, the site of Notre Dame and part of the St Joseph River, is called S t Joseph County. This same sense of history gives the name "South Bend" to the town where this St. Joseph River makes a "bend." It has been said in jest that it was nice of the Lord to put the big rivers near the large cities and toivns. Be that as it may, the town of South Bend grew where the river made a bend. 
The Terrain 

The great adventurers of the past could not know that to the north of the extreme southern point of the elbow of the S t Joseph River a University would grow. They, in their time, did not know that the St Jo­seph River, as was said in 1888, was known as the watershed of the continent Here is what Professor Arthur Stace of the Notre Dame faculty wrote in the Catholic World of June, 1888: 
"A shower of rain falling here may send some of its waters to one extremity of the United States and some to the other. Drained into the St. Joseph, it would pass into Lake Michigan and through the romantic Mackinaw Strait into Lake Huron; by St. Clair River and Lake, and the Detroit River, into storm-lashed Erie and the ever roaring 
NAMES OF SERVICE DEAD 
SINCE W.W.n REQUESTED 
FOR NEW WAR MEMORIAL 

A permanent war memorial honoring all alumni who have died "for God, Country and Notre Dame" is being planned to replace the temporary wooden plaques listing those killed in World War II which long stood in the foyer of Sacred Heart Church. 
The new memorial will hopefully con­tain the names of all Notre Dame men who have died in the Korean action and "Cold War" as well as the Second Worid War. 
While the Alumni Office records are considered to be complete for the World War n Honor Roll, we would like to corroborate our listings since that time. 
Classmates, relatives and friends of alumni who have died on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces since V-J Day are asked to send name, class and date of death to the Alumni Office, Box 533, Notre Dame, Ind. 46336. 
Niagara; and then by Ontario and the Thousand Isles, by historic Montreal and Quebec, into the mist-covered North At­lantic But, falling on the opposite side of a roof-ridge, the drops might be car­ried into the Kankakee, which rises just west of the city limits, and thus pass into the adjacent Prairie State, into the Illi­nois River, and so to swell the surging^ flood that carries fertility and commerce^ through the great valley of the South and West, by St Louis and New Orleans, so into the tropical billows of the Gulf." 

In the city of South Bend we have a Portage Avenue and a Prairie Avenue to remind us that in years gone by this terri­tory was known as Portage Prairie. We have a Miami Avenue, a Potawatomi Park and a street called Pokagon. 
First Pastor 

Before we discuss the arrival in 1842 of Father Sorin and the Brothers to this area,| we should keep in mind that others were here long before. A priest named Father Louis Deseille is generally regarded as the first pastor of Ste. Marie des Lacs. This is the man who lived in what we now refer to as the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. (We iiever hear of him anymore. This is sad. Yet, this great priest walked many a weary mile in all kinds of weather in this area, and today many a soul is now in heaven because this great man worked so hard from his little chapel at Notre Dame.) He was. a Belgian by birth. The time of his mis-" sionary work here was somewhere between 1830 and 1840. Father Sorin said that it was on the feast of St. Andrew, November 30, in 1840, that he first came to Notre Dame. On his first visit to the area he was told of Father Deseille. 
Next time I mil tell you about this Father Deseille and also, as we go on, about some of the other gallant men of the past in whose heroism we bask. Perhaps it is good for all of us to renew our sense of history. _ It is good for us to pause and to say, not' in anger but in gratitude, those words of Robert Frost from "The Generations of Men." 
". . . There ain't no names quite like 
the old ones though, Nor never will be to my way of thinking. One musn't bear too hard on the new­
comers, But there's a dite too many of them for 
comfort I should feel easier if I could see More of the salt wherewith they're to be 
salted . . ." 

16 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September,-1964 
ALUMNI in ART-i 
David Hayes, Sculptor: To Europe with Love 

t 
A DEBT to Europe, incurred by the University's 
•^^ art department over the past thirty years with the importing of several internationally ac­claimed sculptors, has been repaid in part by the travels of an American sculptor, David Hayes '53. Dave, who has received a great deal of space on these pages, gets one more mention for his recent work in Yugoslavia and France. 
Since the late 30's Notre Dame has been the home of such plastic artists as the late Eugene Kormendi, Hungarian religious sculptor; the late 
Jfvan Mestrovic, Croatian genius whose body was returned to Yugoslavia for burial; and Mestro­vic's assistant, compatriot Joseph Turkalj, who completed the Memorial Library's heroic "Moses." The tradition continues with Kormendi's pupil, Rev. Anthony Lauck G.S.C., as department head; "kinetic" sculptor Konstantin Milonadis pursuing abstract, mobile and welded techniques; and West Berlin's Waldemar Otto, artist-in-residence, shaping cxpressionistic bronzes in Mestrovic's O'Shaughnessy studio. 
In 1961 Dave Hayes went to France on Ful­bright and Guggenheim grants to "study the uses of sculpture in relation to architecture." Since then he has exhibited several works in Paris and created a heroic marble "Totso" for 
jipermanent display in the land of Ivan Mestrovic. 
*\Vife Julia and two young sons have been sharing in Dave's "love affair with Europe." 
The influence of the Notre Dame sculptors and painters like Stanley Sessler and Robert Leader will be shown in future "Alumni in Art." 
Next issue: John Lochtejeld, Muratist 

'€< I 
«0 
l> 
SIZE of this marble abstraction is shown by Hayes' children, Brian and David III, seated on its base. The piece is on permanent exhibition in a large open-air sculpture court at Portoroz, Yugoslavia, where Dave spent last summer as a guest of the Yugo­slav government before returning to the Parisian . suburb of Antony. 
BIPED (left), another welded work produced in France, shows the Hayes humor at its most grotesque. Dave wrote: "We have grown so acclimated to life here . . . that the question now is not how soon shall we return but how much longer we shall stay." 
DAVID HAYES, looking like an Irish \ 
Vincent Van Gogh, wears the straw ' 
hat for protection from the hot Aegean [ sun, representing the USA at the inter­national Forma Viva Symposium in 
Yugoslavia, wielding hammer and chisel with participants from England, Japan, Belgium, France, Greece, Poland, Italy, Holland, Israel and Yugoslavia. ; 
GRIFFON (left) was one of Hayes" welded sheet-metal sculptures shown i in last winter's "Huit Americains" J exhibit in Paris. The roundness and Z grace of such compositions have re- :; minded critics of the caryatids or ' pillar-figures beloved of Ivan Mestro-;: vie. Dave's whimsical menagerie still 2 abounds with mythical beasts. ^ 

THE GREEKS HAD A WORD FOR IT; EVERYONE FEELS A NEED FOR IT; NOW WE HAVE A BOOK ABOUT IT: 
portfolio on 


hilanthropy
/ 

S
HARING ONE'S good fortune and substance with others is an ancient, pre-Christian practice. The Greeks had a word for it, one we still use today: philanthropy. But one doesn't have to be wealtliy to be a philanthropbt; more than anytliing else one needs a concern for the welfare of his fellow men, whoever and wherever they may be. 
The advance of our modem civilization, the strengthen­ing of Western democracy, depend on a continuous flow of educated, dedicated, morally courageous young people into business, the professions, and public life. Our Western heritage will not be sustained by the graduate of the grade school, the high school or even the junior college. This is a challenge to the university alumnus. 
In our modem American pluralistic society, public and private higher education both help preserve and extend that heritage. The operation of private colleges and universities and their support through private philanthropy are older than our Republic itself! These institutions and this support are vital today. 
Private support of higher education is no longer the option of tlie wealthy, but the responsibility of the majority. Recognizing tliis and encouraged by liberalized tax laws, more and more donors are supporting the institutions of their choice through tlie many avenues of deferred giving: wills and bequests, trusts, annuities, and life insurance. 
The University of Notre Dame, which receives no direct financial support from Church or State, depends on private philanthropy for its growth and development. Its donor-centered program of philanthropy safeguards the needs of the donor and his family while, at the same time, assuring the University of resources for its growth and development. 
Notre Dame's newly developed Portfolio on Philanthropy specifies several types of planned investments commensurate to your resources, tailored to your needs, suited to your desires. In just a few minutes' time, you can see how a philanthropic program, modest or considerable, can serve you and your family and aid one of America's great edu­cational institutions. 
If you are a professional in the field of estate planning 
— an attomey, trust officer, certified public accountant, banker, insurance agent, or broker — let us send you the new Planning and Reference Guide on Deferred Giving tcA Notre Dame. 
For either or both these publications, write to: Assistant Director Deferred Giving, University of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Y -f MG -F F = 3Y 
This equation is not a product of Notre Dame's excellent Mathematics Department. Nor is it research data that is being used in the University's new Computing Center. It is, however, a formula that has helped the entire University. Its basic parts are you, 240 of America's leading companies and die Ford Foundation. 
The solution is as follows: Y represents your gift to Notre Dame. MG represents the 240 American companies that now have matching gift pro­grams. These companies match, usually dollar for dollar, your gift to the University. F equals the Ford Foundation. If your 1964 gift to the Univer­sity is ^100 and you work for a matching gift company, this company will add ^100 to that. The total amount of ^200 will then be matched fifty cents 
DAVID S. McCAFFERY '64 received the on the dollar by the Ford Foundation. The net result is a 00 0 gift to the 
fifth annual Cavanaugh award from Rev. University. Of course, you must make the initial step in order to put this Albert ScUItzer, acting head of the chain reaction into motion. Y not? theology department Named for the late 
Rev. Joseph Cavanaugh CSC, a former For information regarding your company's plan, contact your Personnel department head, the award is for personal 
character and academic achievement, Department or write Dennis F. Troester, Foimdation Office, Notre Dame, particularly in theology. Now a chemical Indiana 46536. 
engineer, Dave is in graduate school on an NSF fellowship. 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
,NOTRE DAME 
BOOKS 
FEDERAL AID TO PRIVATE SCHOOLS. Leo 
R. Ward, C.S.C., '23. Newman Press, West­minster, Marj'land. $3,95. This new volume by Father Ward is something of a departure from his delight­
fu l Irish-oriented writings. But it offers a most enlightening and constructive surprise to those interested in the progress of aid-to­education programs. I say "surprise" be­cause the volume of material in this field is formidable, and the detached views of a pricst-philosopher-educator would seem to hold out some promise of specialization or emphasis. 
The truth is that the detachment has per­mitted a very clear, logical mind to pur­sue the legislative and philosophical pro-
Chouncements in this controversial area with a great deal of light and ver>' little heat The result is an up-to-date compendium of the views of both sides, organized with a gentle, but clear-cut logic into a case for aid to all education. This case stands out for its lack of negative or emotional re­course, and the strength of its interpreta­tion of what Father Ward describes as a rapidly changing trend toward this general aid among even some of its former ardent 
opponents. 
The material in the new book is decep­tively easy to read, and provides an intel­
i^ectual shot in the arm that should produce a long-time immunity to defection for pro­ponents of Father Ward's own conclusion: ".\ policy and practice of conflict and op­position between the two will not do any longer, nor one of live-and-let-Iive. The two must learn to work together in the .American, pluralist way on our common educational problems." A chapter of com­ments — pro and con — from prominent sources, is invaluable. 
J E A 
- MA.V IX THE MoDER.N NovEL. John Ed­"uard Hardy. University of Washington Press, Seattle, Washington. 220 pp., $5.00. \ survey of the quest-for-identity pattern in modem fiction is the latest book to be published by the poet-critic who is professor of English at the University of Notre Dame. The essays probe the problem of human identity which Dr. Hardy sees as a central concern of all major novelists of the twen­tieth century. The theme is revealed in eleven essays on a representative group of British and American writers — Joseph Con-

Chid! Robert Penn Warren, Eudora Welty, 
F. Scott Fitzgerald, William Faulkner, Evelyn Waugh, James Joyce, D. H. Law-
The SCHOLASTIC is entering its ninety-ninth year of full campus news coverage. It will cost you only $5.00 to keep up to date on the student activities and on the progress of Notre Dame. Mail subscriptions to the SCHOLASTIC, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

WILLIAM L. KIRCHNER JR. '51, L-'53, was recendy sworn as New Jersey commissioner for New York Harbor Waterfront Commission by Charles E. McGcc, Commission secre­tary as New York Commissioner Joseph Kaitz looked on. A Garden State lawyer. Bill also serves as personal counsel to Governor Richard J. Hughes of New Jersey. 
rencc, Ernest Hemingway, E. M. Forster, at Purdue University. His other works, pub­and Virginia Woolf. lished by Bruce of Milwaukee, include Sep­
Dr. Hardy's final contention is that the arated Brethren, Faiths for the Few and 
formal and thematic interests of a novel 
cannot be divorced; that in each instance, 
the novelist's conception of self, of his 
characters' identities, yields the essential and 
unique principle of artistic form. 
John Hardy has published a volume of 
poetry. Certain Poems, as well as two pre­
vious works of literary criticism. The Curious 
Frame and Poems of Mr. John Milton: The 
1645 Edition with Essays in Analysis (co­
author, Cleanth Brooks). Of Man in the 
Modern Novel, he says, "I wrote it to help 
those, including myself, who want to under­
stand — the modern novel, and modem 
man — who feel such want as the deepest 
intellectual necessity, and who share my 
conviction that it is primarily in the novel, 
among all the verbal art forms, that we 
have the whole man alive." 
MANY A SATURDAY .AFTERNOON. Mary A. 
{Airs. Harry) Stuhldreher. Dand McKay 
Inc., New York City. $4.50. 
This autobiographical histor>* of a coach's life through the eyes (and other senses and emotions) of his wife, is of special interest to Notre Dame men (and their wives), as well as to all in the athletic world. It is, in a sense, the stor^' of the coaching career of the AU-American quarterback of the Four Horsemen. And in it arc inevitably the names that are Notre Dame's own Hall of Fame, and the giants in the football world that passed in constant action through the doors of that Hall. This is not Mar>- Stuhl­dreher's first writing — it has been her avo­cation throughout her marriage, often re­flected in national magazines. It has depth and humor, as well as historical interest. 
JEA 
BASIC MARKETING: A MANAGERIAL .AP­PROACH (Richard D. Invin Inc., Home-
wood, 111.) by E. Jerome McCarthy. 
This is a fully revised edition of the basic marketing text published in 1960 by an associate professor of marketing manage­ment at Notre Dame. It has been used by more than 300 colleges and universities. 
TH E LATTER DAY SAINTS IN THE MODER.N DAY WORLD (John Day Co., New York) 
by William J. Whalen '46. 
This study of contemporar>- Mormonism is the seventh book by Bill Whalen, univer­sity editor and assistant professor of English 
Notre 
Christian Family Finance. 
BOOK NOTES: 
Rev. John E. Walsh C.S.C. '45, Notre Dame vice-president for public relations and development, has written the monograph 
Education and Political Power for the Li­brary of Education published by New York's Center for Applied Research in Education, Inc. Formerly head of the education depart­ment, Fr. Walsh received his master's at ND and his doctorate at Yale in 1953, has been an officer of \'arious educational societies and a consultant to the White House Conference on Children and Youth. . . . Fr. .Angelus 
A. DeMarco O.F.M. '56, at Holy Name College and Catholic U., Washington, D.C., 
has published A Key to the Liturgical Con­stitution (Desclee, Rome, Toumai, New York) and The Tomb of St. Peter, Vol. IX 
of the Novum Testamentum Series printed by Brill Co., Leiden, Holland. . . . Panos D. Bardis '50 of the U. of Toledo has con­tributed "Family Forms and Variations His­torically Considered" to Handbook of Mar­riage and the Family (Rand McNally, 1,000 pp., $15.00). . . . Joseph A. Martellaro '56 
(M.A'58, PhD '62) has published Economic 
Development in Southern Italy, 1930-1960, 
result of a Fulbright-sponsored on-the-scene study in 1960-61, and spent the summer as a \nsiting lecturer at National U. of the South, Bahia Blanca, .Argentina, on another Fulbright grant. 
ALUMNI GIFTS . . . 
TO THE NOTRE DAME COLLEC­TION: Director of Libraries Victor Schaefer acknowledged several copies of the Western adventure novels Denver Dude and Gunfire at Wagon Wheel from the author, Ray Humphreys '16 of Littleton, Colorado. . . . and from Chaplain (Col.) Fr. Francis 
L. Sampson '37 of Seventh .Army Head­quarters, a copy of Look Out Below! his best-selling memoirs as a wartime "para­chuting padre." . . . RARE BOOKS: From Robert L. Roach '15 of Muscatine, Iowa, 54 antiquarian books worth $530. . . . From Fr. Cronan KeUy O.F.M. '37 of New York, the Albo Dantesco for the Dante Collection. . . . .And a priceless book of 15th century Vatican architectural drawings, one of three in existence, was the gift of Prof. Frank 
S. Moultrie of the U. of Wisconsin in ap­preciation for the friendship of eight "Cath­olic gentlemen of good will and faith": Rev. Joseph Eisenmann, Rev. P. F. Hayes, Daniel O'Connell, Mark CuUen, Dr. Daniel 
J. Leary, Herbert Lord, J. Meehan Pfiffner and Clemens T. Fleckenstein. 

Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 19 
^^-^-^^i^S^i^asiPl^'^iatiJi^^ 
iliimiti.4* 
A/ewd ajf the 

NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL 
by Thomas L. Shaffer L '61 
Enrollment 
Projections based on past years indi­cate tliat 110 new students will enter the Law School in September, a 44 per cent increase over the 76-man class which entered last Se]3tember. There will be 59 men in tlie second-year class this fall, and 44 in the third-year class—a total enrollment of 213, if the projections on the first-year class are borne out. 
Graduation 
Forty-seven graduates received their 
LL.B. degrees in June. James P. Mer-curio, of St. Louis. Missouri, was first man in the class; Mr. Mercurio. who was Articles Editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer last year, will take up his duties this summer as law clerk to Judge Skelley AVright of the federal Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. 
Moot Court Finals 

Justice Arthur J. Goldberg, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, will preside over final arguments in tlie Moot Court competi­tion on the campus October 10. The court will also include Judge Carl McGowan, of the Court of .'\ppeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and Judge AVilliani J. Campbell of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. 
Finalists in the competition are Henry J. Boitel, of Brookh-n, New York, a graduate of St. John's University; Kexdn Carey, of Yakima, Washington, a graduate of Gonzaga University; James J. Leonard, Jr., of Prairie Vil­lage, Kansas, a graduate of Brown Uni­versity'; and John H. Martin, of Sacra­mento, California, a graduate of the University of Notre Dame. 
Faculty Notes 

Professor Bernard J. Ward is ad­dressing five federal judicial confer­ences this summer on the proposed Rules of .Appellate Procedure. He is reporter (technical advisor) for the Advisoiy Committee on Rules of Ap­pellate Procedure of the Judicial Con­ference of the United States, a group appointed by Chief Justice Warren. The committee recently submitted for the consideration of the Bench and Bar of the United States a complete set of rules to govern procedure in all of the eleven United States Courts of Appeal. These courts have, since their creation in 1891, operated under rules peculiar to each court. 
Professor ^Vard addressed the Sev­enth Circuit Judicial Conference, in Chicago, on May 12: the Fifth Cir­cuit conference, in Ft. ^Vorth, on May 14; and the Ninth Circuit conference, at Lake Tahoe, Nevada, on July 2. He will address the Eighth Circuit confer­ence, in St. Louis, on September 9 and the Third Circuit conference, in At­lantic City, on September 11. 
Assistant Professor G. Robert Blakey joined the faculty in July. He -will teach courses in legal research, real property and family law, succeeding Associate Professor Conrad C. Kellenberg, who resigned from the faculty this year. Pro­fessor Blakey graduated from the Law School in 1960 and has been for the past four years a special attorney in tlie Organized Crime and Racketeering Sec­tion, Criminal Division, of the United States Department of Justice. He was Associate Editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer in 1959 and 1960. 
Professor John T. Noonan, Editor of the Natural Law Forum, is completing \vork on a history of the theological and canonical approach to contraceptiol which will be published by Har\-ard University Press ne.\t year. Professor Noonan, ^^•ho is both a lawyer and a historian, is the author of a history of moral attitudes toward usuiy. 
Other faculty books include Asso­ciate Professor Edward J. Murphy's two-volume casebook on the law of contracts and sales, which, in its tcm porary edition, ^^"ill be used at Notre Dame for the second year this fall; and a temporaiT edition of a casebook on natural law and jurispnidence, by Pro­fessors Thomas Broden and Robert E. Rodes, Jr., which will also be used for the second time this year. 
Law Association 
Dean Joseph O'Meara will address a 

luncheon meeting of the Notre Dam^ 
Law Association on Thursday, August 
13, in the Jansen Room of the ^Valdorf-
Astoria Hotel in New York City. The 
meeting is held in connection with the 
annual meeting of the American Bar 
.'Association. Joseph A. Tracy, a member 
of tlie New York Bar, will preside and 
is in charge of arrangements. 
The Notre Dame Lawyer 

The staff for Volume 40 of the Law­yer was elected and appointed before the end of tlie second semester. JohiP Lucido, a graduate of St. Louis Uni­versity, is 1964-65 editor. Other edi­torial board members include Fernand Dutile, Sanford, Maine, a graduate of Assumption College; Mike D. Sullivan, Roselle, Illinois, a Notre Dame gradu­ate; John ^V. Beatty, Lynchburg, Vir­ginia, a gi-aduate of Villanova Uni­versity; R. D. Catenacci, 'Woodbridge, New Jersey, a Notre Dame graduate* Douglas F. Spesia, a University of Illi­nois graduate from Joliet, Illinois; and John W. Lamont, Chicago, and .John McQuillan, Munster, Indiana, both Notre Dame graduates. 
Gray's Inn 

Steven A. Weidner, a third-year stu­dent from ^Vaterloo, Iowa, and a Notre Dame graduate, is new treasurer (presi­
dent) of Gray's Inn. Other officers are. 
•

Henry J. Boitel, Brooklyn, New York; Edward J. DenDooven, Neenah, AVis­consin; and Joseph P. Delia Maria, Jr., Chicago. 
Moot Court Officers 

The 1964-65 director of tlie Moot Court is Larry E. Shinnick, Ft. Lauder­dale, Florida. He will be assisted by Kevin J. Carey, Yakima, AVashington, and Leonard J. McCue. Newburg. New York. 
20 Noire Dame Alumnus, August-September, 196i 
(CANDID CA/HER/1 CN A [)p | J|^|tf^M 
I^EeiJTRATICN 
RIGHT: Workers Kathy Rajski and Jim Cooney pause as reunion class­mates dicker over the general fee fi — a bargain $25 tab that packed five Gold Coast halls for three days. 
M€NC©CAAi CAT . . 
FROM LEFT: Monogram President Frank Miles seems to be referee as Athletic Director Krause and Basketball Coach Dee wrongle with Secretory-
Treasurer Al Lesko over an unidentified object — either Moose's golf score 
or his bar bill — as the athletes gathered for cocktails and dinner. 
AND GCLDEN JDEIEEE 
HALF THE CLASS OF '14 relaxing in the Golfers' Lounge of the Morris Inn. For the other half (plus the ubiquitous Ray Miller) see "Dinners" on Candid Camera page 27. 
l^otre Dame Alumnus. August-September, 1964 21 
ecLr... 
ri^CM TEC-orr... 
lONG GAY LINE of golf carts formed endlessly for 48 hours in heat, humidity and frequent rain as more than a quarter of those in attendance hacked away doggedly and with deadly competition in the world's wildest, wooliest golf tourney. 

. . .TC riNAL PUTT. . . 
HOLDING BREATH on the 18th green, caddy and the rest of the foursome watch one 
DRAMA . . duffer essay a crucial putt. The braver golfers jammed 36 holes or more into a weekend crowded with similar attractions. 
SORROH'. . , 
READ & WEEP appears to be the watchword as that same golfer (mercifully unidentified) dejectedly posts a less-than-sizzling score with "Wait till next year!" 
.. . AND TDILMDii 
FATHER HOLDERITH (left) awards 
a golfing umbrella to proud 
General "Caesar" Mulcahy, who 
slogged through rain to become 
runner-up in the 18-hole tourney. 

22 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
cCECCEATI€N... 
JUNE 12-13, 1964 

ALUMNI GOLF TOURNAMENT 
TOTAL PLAYERS: 250 WEATHER: Humid, Hot and Rainy 
36-HOLE TOURNAMENT 

c  Winner: Denny Nead  Class '59  Gross: 77-73 = 150  Prize: 1 dz. Titlist  
Runner-Up: Geo. Sfuhr  •49  77-74—  151  V2 dz. Spalding  Dots  
Driving Contest: Bob Fries  •54  Distance 245  Set of 4 club  covers  
Runner~Up: Joe VonDyke  •44  238  Full glove & putter  cover  

18-HOLE SENIOR TOURNAMENT — CLASSES T914 THROUGH 1934 
Winner: John Dorgan Class ^29 Gross: 40-36 = 76 Prize: 1 dz. Titlist Runner-Up: "Caesar" Mulcahy •14 42-43 = 85 Umbrella 
c 
Driving Contest: Jim Swift •24 Distance 235 Vi dz. Spalding Dots Runner-Up: "Nig " Kane •14 205 Set of 4 club covers Blind Bogey: Irving Corey Class—'24 Score —118 Hdcp.—44 Blind Bg.—^74 N.D. lighter 
18-HOLE JUNIOR TOURNAMENT — CLASSES 1939 THROUGH 1959 
Winner: Jim Thomas Class '44 Gross: 37-38 = 75 Prize: 1 dz. Moxfli balls Runner-Up: Creighton Miller •44 37-39 = 7b V2 dz. Spalding Dots Driving Contest: Creighton Miller '44 Distance 304 Set of 4 club covers 
c 
Runner-Up: Ed Beinor •39 290 N.D. cap & cover Blind Bogey: Chuck Reddy Class—'39 Score •—91 Hdcp.—20 Blind Bg.—^71 N.D. lighter 
TCIJI2S & BARS 
ARRIVALS... DERACTURES... AND JUST SETTIN* 
FREE BUSSES drev/ a goodly FAVORITE SPOTS still seemed number to the outer reaches to be the five draft beer bars of campus expansion to north scattered among the halls, and and east, beyond the foot the favorite occupation was power of most rubberneckers. swapping tales 'mid oak & ivy. 
TOURS RAN to such far-flung outposts as Lobund Lab, the Community Ceme­tery, the new Cartier Reld, Moreau Seminary & new Holy Cross House. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 23 
CANDID CAMERA CN TliE |^||fU|^|C)N* 
•3EeiSTI3/^TION . . . 
CDEN liCD§E$ IN SCIENCE... 
RADIATION CENTER signed alumni into its weird lead-shielded walls for a guided four through its entrails and the mysteries of roentgens, isotopes and gamma rays controlled by rods at a respectful distance. 
... ANM) ENCINEEDINC 
ELECTRONICS labs of the depart­ment of electrical engineering were open for guests, as well as metallurgy, mechanical and civil engineering, and the admin­istrative offices. Here Prof. Larry Stauder '29 (in patterned shirt), a reunionist himself, traces an intricate circuit for visitors. Grods expressed every­thing from interest to downright amazement at expansion in science and technology (depending on the length of their absence). 

24 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
. . FOR RADIATION 
COMPUTER-MATH Building opened 
its vast glass-enclosed central 
nervous system for a look at the 
cybernetic wonders of the Rand 
Super-Univac 1107 with its rows 
of memory tapes (left) controlled 
by the tiny console at right. 

. INTCnCST TO OOWNRieiiT AHAZEAiCNT 
ACADEMICS 
/IFTER TCEPICATICN . . 

utEUSINESS.. 
RECEPTION in the faculty Lounge of the Hurley Commerce Building had professors from the College of Business Administration greeting hesitant alumni, who soon warmed to surroundings and conversed with great animation. 
. CeNVERSATICN 

. . AMUSED EUT SCiHEWtiAT CONEUSED 
..TfiE AI2TS 
O'SHAUGHNESSY Hall of Liberal 
and Rne Arts opened its art rooms 
and galleries with a display of 
faculty and student work. Grads 
were entertained if somewhat 
mystified by the emaciated sculp­
ture, "pop" art, surrealist and 
abstract expressionist paintings. 

o 
WITH rAV€l2ITE MENTCES 
FACULTY-ADMINISTRATION veterans, both active and emeriti, showed up at the drop of on invitation, pop of a cork, 
or promise of popcorn. Where else could you find two musical giants like Profs. Pedtke and Casosonta (left) 
seated side by side? Or a vaudeville trio (at right) like Fr. Brennan, Jack McAllister and Fr. Frank Covanaugh? 
Q 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 25 
CANDID CAMEKA CN 
A $ I LVE K J L BI LE C 
CLASS OF '39 delighted in the Rockne Memorial, an oasis between occasional marches to the North Dining Hall for meals and Morrissey for sleep; in beautiful souvenirs printed by retiring Secretary Jim Motschall; in the distinctive bonnets, parodes, bagpipe concerts, sing-olongs and snacks arranged by Secretary-elect Joe Hannan. 
5?'T' •' -1 «^ - --^, _.-^ 
TMT 
^Cs^K-.-^.!*;" 
mm 
^^^M^^ 
1a^ P 

TROPHY ROOM tete-a-tete between Fr. Lynch, Pot Gor­
man. 

SPECIAL FAVORITE was Motscholl's song sheet for "Our Wonderful Year 1939," containing every "WHAT'S THIS?" thing from the sublimest melodies of Kern and Porter to classics like "Flat Foot Floogie" and "The says reunionist of Three Little Fishes," rendered to the rhythmic accompaniment of Harlan Hogan and his combo. 
• 

a staff-waving giant. CCrS I3IPCE), PAI3A.DED & '§ANe ALONG WITH MOTSCH' 
BEST OF ALL were the "coaches' conferences" on the steps of the "Rock" in the warm June night. At the President's Luncheon, Father Hesburgh reported on the University and President Motschall on the record of the Class. 
ri\ ;^ '/? f: ,^-^•^••• 
/r" n ^lA ^ " ' IJl^ 
"WHY, IT'S the Caledonia Kilties!"—a dozen pipers in all, in oil—^followed by 150 stalwarts of '39 in their green-and-white tom o'shonfers. Silver Jubilee pipe-and-drum corps gave the first bagpipe concert ever heard on the quad. 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
Co . . . AND CLASS DINNERS: A STUDY IN CONTRASTS 
DISTINGUISHED citizens represent 
FORMAL... 
the 35th Anniversary Class of '29. 
iss *'j" icr^^^r^crcsii 

JIM ARMSTRON G sits in on the only shot of the elusive Class of 1919 .  INFORMAL  FATHER MOOR E converses with Jim Meeha n and the 40-year Class of '24 .  
1949: air-conditioning and martinis  1959: seminars over shrimp and salad.  

B icjKaa'?. •. 
. . . AND IN BETWEEN 

REST of the 1914 Golden Jubilee Group ossembled by Walt Clements (see p. 21) 
BRASS of the Class of '39 prepare to begin an evening of hilarity at the THE PARTY'S OVER: forlorn leftovers from the Class of '44 pizza spectacular. gala Silver Jubilee Dinner. 
. . . PLUS LUNCHEONS, PICNIC & OTHERWISE 
r ~",p BUSINESS blueplate for 1929's many professional groups at luncheon. 
FILET Mignon for the exclusive  40- MOST Classes, like  '44,  were  confent  
year  assemblage  of  1924.  with beer & fried chicken outside.  
Noire Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964  27  

CANDIO CAMEKA ON 

A LifeKAKy CONVOCATION 
VISITORS VIEWED priceless tomes and manuscripts in the Rare Book Room BEST SELLERS written by Notre Dame (left) or checked for their names on a golden roll of donors. men, displayed in showcases along the Memorial Library's outer concourse, drew the attention of many reunion­ists, some of them classmates of alumni authors like Pulitzer Prize-
STANDING ROOM ONLY was the situation in the Library Auditorium as alumni  
gathered for dedicatory ceremonies in the building they  erected.  
ALUMNI PRESIDENT Philip Faccenda,  
representing  the  Alumni  Board,  
congratulates Notre Dame men for a  
S6  million  gift  that  drew  sufficient  
outside support to complete  the  
structure,  largest  on  any  campus.  
LAUGHTER exploded with Father Hes­ 
burgh's revelotion of student  nick­ 
name "Ted's Mahal"—and  (for  the  
heroic sculpture of Moses pointing  
skyward)  "Ist-and-lO" or "There  
Goes  Hesburgh  Again."  

CONVERSATION bloomed  throughout  ANNOUNCEMENT of grand award  in  
the corridors of the 312.5  million  US Steel alumni giving &  incentive  
building, before showcases  brimming  competition was made by John E.  
with  alumni book  displays and  other  Johnson  of the American  Alumni  
collections  of  Notre  Dame  lore.  Council.  (See cover and page  3.)  9  
28  Notre Dame  Alumnus^  August-September^  1964­ 

G ANt) A 
THE ANNUAL ALUMNI BANQUET 
"OLD FACE" Jim Armstrong was again on hand as toastmaster, introducing "new faces" to the "wall-to-wall" alumni. 
^' 'New Faces of 1964" 
CAMPUS: Public  Relations  &  Develop­ CONTINUING EDUCATION: Newly  ap­ COACHING: Many  faces of Mr.  Erin  
ment Vice-President, Fr. John Walsh, &  pointed Dean, Thomas Bergin, & a  O'Parseghian  &  a  college  try "  at  a  
a  barefaced  "pitch"  for  Challenge  II.  blueprint for alumni study  at  renaissance in  athi etics  
new Kellogg Center.  

ALUMNI MASS AND CLOSING CONVOCATION: Campus Chaplain Fr. Lloyd Teske revealed new traditions of spirituality. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 29 
invrVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ( 1964 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Seplember 26— 
sports 
By Charlie Callahan '38 

1964 FOOTBALL 
COACH ARA PARSEGHIAN expressed himself as "pleasantly surprised" at the end situation at spring practice. The top five ends from 1963 were lost. How­ever, this spring, Coach Parseghian liked the development of Jack Snow, senior, 215 (a halfback most of the time last year when he played), and Phil Sheridan, junior, 210 (he had three minutes' playing time last year) on offense, and Paul Costa, senior, 230 (a converted back) on defense. 
With reference to his top linemen, Parseghian has named John Meyer, senior, 215, at tackle, and Captain Jim Carroll, senior, 225, and Dick Arring­ton, junior, 230 (a first string tackle most of last year), at the guards. Norm Nicola, senior, 230, at center, is an­other experienced lineman. : Quarterback is still probably die big­gest question mark, as it has been for several years. Despite Notre Dame's heritage of Stuhldrehers, Carideos, Bertellis, Lujacks, Guglielmis, etc., there has not been a quarterback of All-America rating since 1956 — Paul Homung's last season. However, in spring practice, Parseghian said he was also "pleasantly surprised" with the work of John Huarte, senior, 180; Huarte is a pretty good passer. But near the end of spring practice, when it seemed that perhaps the quarterback problem had been solved, Huarte suf­
fered a shoulder injury and did not play in the Old-Timers game marking the end of spring practice. It is ex­pected that he will be ready by fall, but at this \vriting quarterback has to remain a question mark position. 
Bill Wokki, junior, 195, is a good solid halfback, not particularly elusive, but hard-running. Nick Rassas, junior, 180, showed development at halfback during the spring practice. And Nick Eddy, sophomore, 190, is expected to be of help. (There is a definite lack of depth at halfback and very little back­field help was received from last year's freshman squad.) There is experience at fullback — Joe Farrell, senior, 205, and Joe Kan tor, senior, 210, are e.x­pected to play mostly on offense, and Pete Duranko, junior, 215, mostly on defense. 
As for leading sophomore prospects, the list could include Don Gmitter, end, 215; Jim LjTich, guard-linebacker (moved from end), 210; Kevin Hardy, tackle, 255; Alan Page, tackle-end, 245; and Tom Regner, tackle, 250. 
Concerning All-America prospects, CapL Jim Carroll, senior guard, is the best prospect in the line, and Bill Wol­ski, junior halfback, is the best back­field possibilit)'. Dick Arrington, junior, 230, is another possibilit)'. 
Here are a few more facts to con-
Wisconsin at Madison, Wisconsin 
1:30 CDT October 3— Purdue at NOTRE DAME 1:30 EST 
October 10— Air Force at Colorado Springs, Colo­rado 1:30 MST 
October 17— UCLA at NOTRE DAME 1:30 EST ' 
October 24— Stanford at NOTRE DAME 1:30 EST 
October 31— Navy at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
1:30 EST November 7— Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh, Pennsyl­vania 1:30 EST 
November 14— Michigan State at NOTRE DAME 
1:30 EST November 21 — Iowa at NOTRE DAME 1:30 EST 
November 28— Southern California at Los Angeles, California 1:30 PST 
sider wth reference to Notre Dame football . . . The present seniors are working under their third head coach in as many years. . . . There is not an undergraduat^ student presently in school who has ever enjoyed a winning football season at Notre Dame. Notre Dame began playing football in 1887. The Irish have won 467 games, lost 133, and tied 34. Of the 133 losses. 

FOOTBALL DYNASTIES in the maldiig; were cridenccd at spring tryouts by these seven hopefuls whose forebears were Monogiainmers of yore: (1st row, I.-r.) guard Chuck Vergara, nephew of George Vcrgam '25; guard Angdo Schiralli, son of Rocco Schiralli '35; end Phil Sheridan, son of Phil Sheridan '39; and end Dan Gibbs, son of Dan Gibbs '38; (standmg) halfback Nick Rasas, son of George Rassas '40; halfback Larry Kuharich, son of Joe Kuliaricli '38; and Mike Eariey, son of Bill Barley '43. Rassas and Sheridan are juniors this fall, tlie rest sophs. 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
56 have taken place since 1950. From 1889 until 1956, Notre Dame had only one losing season — 1933. (It is now going on six years since the Irish have had a winning season.) 
A part of Notre Dame's football fame came from success against Big Ten teams . . . 
Knutc Rockne's record against the Big Ten — 24 victories, 2 losses, and one tied. 

Frank Leahy's record against the Big Ten — 28 victories, 3 losses, and four ties. 0 In Notre Dame's last 23 games against the Big Ten, the Irish have won 4 and 
lost 19. 

At Notre Dame today, we think we had a good spring football practice. We think we have an excellent coach in Ara Parseghian. We think we are on our way back — but it may take a 
little time. 
[) 1929-30 TEAM REUNION PLANNED IN FALL OF '65 
The recent Monogram Club gather­ing reminds us that a ver)' special Mon­ogram event will be repeated ne.\t year. 
October 2, 1965, will be the date for the Quinquennial Reunion of Rockne's last national championship teams of 1929 and 1930, according to Dan Halpin, president of the group. 
_ Dan recently sent special reminders to all his xdce-presidents (squad mem­bers), plus coaches, managers and selected honorar)' members, asking them to make reservations at the Holi­day Inn or any of several nearby motels for the weekend of ne.\t year's Northwestern game. Families are in­vited, and reunionists can check in on Thursday, Friday or Saturday. The event will repeat and improve 
Ciupon the format for the reunion in 1960. Dan ticked off the features: "red­carpet welcome by the University, en­thusiastic cooperation of the Athletic Association; greetings of old friends, teammates and profs; the Grotto and campus, visits to special spots of fond memories; golf, huddles about our pro-schedule. Memorial Mass for 
gram and deceased teammates; 'tall Rock preliminaries and champion-r tales,' 
with counsel of coaches and Monogram friends; other receptions, buffet dinner after the game, pictures on a big screen of how streamlined you looked in '29 and '30; no speeches ships. 
— just action as you like and enjoy it." 
Dan would like notification now of when teammates e-xpect to arrive in '65, so he can notify the group as well as complete plans for the event. 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL — 1964 MONOGRAM MEN LOST FROM 1963 SQUAD (22) Ends TOM GOBERVILLE, JIM KELLY, Dave Pive<^ John Simon, 
Clay Stephens, *John Geraghty, *Joe Monahan 
Tackles: GEORGE BEDNAR, Nick Etten, Marty Olosky, *Jack Anton 
Guards: BOB LEHMANN, Mike DiCarlo 
Center: Bill Burns 

Quarterbacks: FRANK BUDKA, *Tom Meagher •Denis Szot 
Halfbacks: TOM MacDONALD, Charl e O'Hara, BILL PFEIFFER, Denny 
Phillips, *Jack Bamarc 

* Denotes Senior Service Monogram. Those capi talized held first team status. 
1963 MONOGRAM MEN RETURNING (16) 
Class 1963 
as of Playing 

Position Name Age Ht. Wt. Hometown 9/64 Tune End *Jacfc Snow 21 6-2 215 Long Beach, Calif. Sr. 135.-05 Tackle John Meyer 21 6-2 212 Chicago, HL Sr. 285?*5 Tackle Jim Snowdcn 22 6-4 235 Youngstown,: Ohio Sr. 110K)7 Tackle Mike Webster 20 6-1 250 Vancouver, B.C. Jr. 76:13 Guard *Dick Arrington 22 5-11 227 Erie, Pa. Jr. 309:05 Guard John Atamian 22 6-1 205 Niagara Falls, N.Y Sr. 192:50 Guard Jim Carroll, Capt. 21 6-1 225 Atlanta, Ga. Sr. 320:15 Guard Ken Maglicic 21 5-10 215 Cleveland, Ohio Sr. 121.-05 
Center Tom Kostelnik 21 6-2 215 Killer, Pa. Sr. 140:35 Center Norm Nicola 21 6-0 230 Canton, Ohio Sr. 349:20 Quarterback Ale-x (Sandy) 
Bonvcchio 21 5-10 185 Wainwright, Ohio Sr. 55^45 Halfback *Tom Longo 22 6-1 200 LyndhuTst, N.J. Jr. 81:20 Halfback Bill Wolski 20 5-11 195 Muskegon, Mich. Jr. 156rf)0 
Fullback Pete Duranko 21 6-2 218 Johnstown, Pa. Jr. 85:23 Fullback *Joe Farrell 22 6-0 205 Chicago, HI. Sr. 223:30 Fullback Joe Kantor 21 6-1 212 Cleveland, Ohio Sr. 217:13 
*
 Sno»' had most of his playing time as a halfback in 1963, will play as an end in 1964. *Arrington played as a tackle in 1963, is now a guard. 

*
 Longo played as a defensive back in 1963, may be a quarterback In 1964. 

*
 Farrell played as a halfback in 1963, is now a ftdlback. 


OTHERS \VITH PLAYING TIME IN 1963: 
Playing Position Name Age Ht. Wt. Hometown Class Time End •Paul Costa 22 6-4 230 Port Chester, N.Y. Sr. 42:35 End *Ken Ivan 19 6-1 190 Massillon, Ohio Jr. 12:57 End Harold Long 19 6-0 200 LaGrangc, HI. Jr. 32rlO End Jim Rakers 21 6-4 205 Quincy, HI. Sr. 27:20 End Phil Sheridan 20 6-4 210 Rutherford, N.J. Jr. 3:43 End Tom Talaga 20 6-5 220 Chicago, HI. Jr. 8K)5 
Tackle Jim Brocke 20 6-2 220 Crown Point, Ind. Sr. 5:30 Tackle Bob Meeker 20 6-2 222 Akron, Ohio Jr. 5:30 Guard 'Vince Dennery 20 6-2 215 Philadelphia, Pa. Sr. 3KI3 Guard Tom Sullivan 20 6-2 230 Berkeley, Calif. Jr. 45:50 Guard-Tackle Mike Wadnvorth 21 6-3 242 Toronto, Ont. Jr. 50:30 Center Vince Mattera 21 6-3 230 San Pedro, Calif. Sr. 6:45 Quarterback John Huarte 20 6-0 180 Anaheim, Calif. Sr. 45:40 Quarterback Dan McGinn 20 5-11 180 Omaha, Nebr. Jr. 18:50 Quarterback Bill ZIoch 19 6-3 190 Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. Jr. 7:25 Halfback Ron Bliey 22 6-1 190 New York City Sr. 57:35 Halfback Nick Rassas 20 6-0 180 Winnetka, OL Jr. 23:55 Fullback Alan Loboy 20 6-0 195 Park Ridge, IB. Jr. 19:20 Fullback Tom Mittelhauser 21 5-11 188 Pittsburgh, Pa. Sr. 3:40 
*
 Costa had most of his playing time in 1963 as a halfback; is expected to be a defensive end candidate in 1964. 

*
 I>-an had most of his playing time in 1963 as an end; is expected to be at safety on defense in 1964. 


NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL COACHING STAFF: 
Head Coach: Ara Parseghian. 

Assistant Coaches: Paid ShoulL >, Richard [Doc) Urich, Tom Pagna, Jolm Ray, 
Dave Hurd, and Joe Yonto. 

Freshman Coach: George Sefcik. Assistant Freshman Coach: John Muridiy. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 31 
"Directory 

 of Clubs and Their President 
North Florida—^Albert H. Kessing, '40, 7245 Coligny Rd., Jacksonville, 
ALABAMA 
John A. O'Brien, Jr., '51, 1465 Linda Fla. 
Vista Dr., Regent Forest, Birming­
ham, Ala. 

Palm Beach County—Daniel Dot*Tiey, Jr., '44, Suite 615. Har\ey BIdg., ALASKA West Palm Beach, Fla. Pensacola—John L. McCormack, '49, 
John S. Hellenthal, '35, Box 941, 

Anchorage, AlasLa, P.O. Box 8, Pensacola, Fla. St. Petersbttrg-Tampa — Mark E. ARIZONA Jfooncy, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd„ Tampa, Fla. 
Phoenix—^Thomas A. Hennigan, Jr., '42, 5729 E.. Joshua Tree Ln., Scottsdale, Ariz. GEORGIA 
Tucjon—Timothy R. Kiny, '37, 5651 Atlanta — Richard G- Murphy, *44, E. Scarlett, Tucson, Anz. 

677 PoQce de Leon Ave., N.E., Atlanta, Ga. 
ARKANSAS 

Fort Smith—^Jamcs A. Gilkcr. '48, 3715 Free Ferrv Rd., Fort Smitli, Ark. HAWAH 
UttU Rock—James E. Madigan, '43, Har\ey Lung, '53, 1605 Ulueo St., 

4617 Crestwood, Little Rock, .\rk. 

Kailua, Oahu, Hawaii. CALIFORNIA Bat«rj^eU—Richard L. Bamctt, '56, 
IDAHO 
630 Golden State Hivy., Bakcrsfield, Calif. P. Michael Kohout, '59. 3702 Trail 
C«n(rfl/—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secre­Circle, Boise, Idaho 83704 tary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Idaho Falls — James M. Brady, '29. CiliL P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
Greater Long Beach Area—Francis E. Conaty, '43. 3742 West 170th St., Torrance, Calif. 

ILLINOIS 
Los Angeles—Robert L. Gervais, '55, 3219 Rosewood Ave., Los Angeles 

Aurora — John G. Boan, '54, 516 66, Calif. 
Galena Blvd., Aurora, HI. Northern—Edirard E. Madigan, '54, Central Illinois — Thomas Hamilton, 5528 Glcnbrook Dr., Oaicland, Calif. 
Jr., '53, 3319 S. Fifth St., Spring­field, III. 
Orange County—Thomas J. Getzing­er, '53, 2212 E. %Vnshire Ave., 

Chicago — Paul Fulhner, '55, 7344 N. Ridge Blvd., Chicago 45, III. 
Fullerton, Calif. 

flecotn;—John F. Foy, '35, 1416 W. 
Sacramento—^Alfred A. Kaelin, '55, 

Decatur St., Decatur. III. 4732 Crestwood Way, Sacramento Eastern Illinois—Lester D . Fahcy, '42, 22, Calif. 11 prairie, Danville, III. 
San Ciejo—Chris J. Cohan. '54, 6080 Fox Valley — George R. Schmidt, '29, Cowles Mtn. BU-d., La Mesa, Calif. 
620 Summit St., Elgin, III. 
Joliet — Robert M. Walsh, '43, 2609 Dougall Rd., Joliet, III. 
San Fernando Valley—Robert Hunter, 
'52, 8757 Jumilla Ave., A'orthn'dge, Jon Gabriel Valley — William T. 

Kankakee Valley — Thomas J. Rey­Huston, '51, 612 S. Flower St., 
nolds, '54, 34354 S. Winfield, Suite 700, Los Angeles 17, Calif. 
Kankakee, III. 
McHenry County — Thomas J. Par­COLORADO sley, '54, 377 West Crystal Lake Ave., Crystal Lake, III. 
Colorado Springs — Otto K. Hilbert, '54, 640 Dove Place, Colorado 

Peoria — John R. Powers, '53, 2910 Wtstport Rd.. Peoria, 111. 
Springs, Colo. Denner—jimcs R. Hilger, '57, 3166 

iroci/ord—Albert Carroll, '22, 206 W. Sute St., Rockford, 111. 
S. Vine St., Englewood, Colo., • Rock River Valley — Luke R. Morin, 80110. 

'53, 523 N. Dixon Ave., Dixon, III. CONNECTICUT Southern Cook County — Robert N. CalTarelli, '55, 2633-E Hawthorne 
Connecticut Valley — Robert L. Mc-

Lane, Flossmoor, III. 
Goldrick, '55, Old County Highway, 
East Gianby, Conn. 

Fairfield County—William Mulrenan, '37, 100 Tidemill Tern, Fairfield, INDIANA Conn. 
Calumet District — Antliony Kuhar-Naugatuek — Domenic A. Narxlucci, ich, '35, 7145 Baring Parkway, Jr., '52, 44 Beacon Manor Rd., 
Hammond, Ind. Naugatuek, Conn. 
Eastern Indiana—James F. Halligan, 
Heiv Haven—^yr. Robert T. Warner, '32, 303 Wysor BIdg., Muncie, Ind. '53. 1960 Whitney Ave., Hamden Elkhart — Austin Gildea, '30, 5 St. 17, Conn. Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind. DELAWARE Evansville—'D. Patrick O'Daniel, '59, 
Arthur F. DiSabatino, '59, 801 Bank 3110 East Gum St., Ex-ansvillc, Ind. of Delauare BIdg., Wilmington, Fort Wayne — Jerome F. Hipskind, Del. '59, 2505 Stanford Dr., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBU 

Grant County — Eugene A. Campa-Albert A. Virostei, Jr., '56, 7707 nalc, '50. 3001 Lincoln Blvd., 
Granada Drive, Bcthcsda 14, Md. 

Marion, Ind. FLORIDA Indianapolis—Dr. Thomas P. Carney, '37, 202 E. 75th St., Indianapolis 
C^n/ro/—Joseph M. McNamaia, '47, 20, Ind. 
P.O. Box 5547, Orlando, Fla. 

Michigan City — J. Emmett Miller, Fort Lauderdale — Robert E. Mc­'24, 3007 Cleveland Ave., Michigan Donough, '52, 2844 Flunkett St., 
City, Ind. 
Hollywood, Fla. 

St. Joseph Valley — Richard Cleary, Greater Miami — Robert I. Probst, '50, 1635 Woodmont, Sou i Bend, •SB. 3215 S. W. 76th Ave., ifiami, Inii. 
Fla. 

Terre Haute — James P. Bayer, '49, 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
2340 McKeen, Terre Haute. Ind. 
IOWA Burlineton — William Bauer, '57, 119 Marietta St., Burlinston, Iowa. Cedar Rapids—\. James Murray. *60, 3701 Kencrest Drive, N.E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Des Moines — Joseph B. Joyce, *54, 470a S.W. 16th St., Des Moines 15, Iowa. Dubuque—Rev. William Kunsch, *37, Our Lady of Seven Dolors Rectory, Fcstina, Iowa. Sioux-Land — Raymond B. Duggan, H3, 3ZU Jackson, Sioux Cit>- 4, Iowa. 
Tri'Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline) — Thomas F. Britt, *52, 119 Fcmwood, Daven­port, Iowa. 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, *49, 2203 CoWege, Topeka, Kansas. 
Salina—John G. Browne, '51, 5th & Court Sts., Clay Center, Kansas. 
Wichita—GcoT^e A. Schwarz, *25, 500 Orpheum BIdg., Wichita 2, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 

Robert H. WJUcnbrink. *49, 2151 Strathmoor Blvd., Louisnlle, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 

New Orleans—Pierre V. MUIer. '59, 5527 Jacqueline Ct., New Orleans, Louisiana. 
Northern Louisiana—Dr. Edward R. Morgan, *44, 803 Jordan St., Shrc\-eport, La. 
MAINE 

J. Paul Scully, Jr., '41, 134 Cottage St., Lewbton, Maine. 
MARYLAND 

Baltimore — William J. Keary, '54, 412 North Bend Rd., Baltimore 29, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS Berkshire County — Alfred J. Bzdula, '49. 87 Kittrcdge Rd., Pittsfield, ^fass. Boston — Cornelius Fowler, '47, 44 Gailord Street, Melrose 76, Mass. Pioneer Valley—Daniel J. O'Connell, '22, II Pynchone Rd., Holyoke, -Mass. MICHIGAN Battle Cr»<:—Raymond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard PI., Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County •— Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles, Mich. Blue Water District — William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. Dearborn — Joseph W, Byrne, '52, 8643 Kinloch, Dearborn, Mich. Detroit—John R. Panelli, '49, 22750 West 8 *Iilc Rd., Detroit 19, Mich. Flint — Walter G. Nagel, '56, 1921 Castle Lane, Flint, ^Iich. Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn. '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels BIdg., Ironwood, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
— Robert C. Woodhouse. '47, 1664 Alexander, S.E., Grand Rapids, Mich. 49506 
Hiawathaland — Donald T. Trotticr, '44, 604 Ludington St., Escanaba, Mich. 
Jackson — Cyril J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St., Jackson, Mich. 
Kalamazoo — Joseph O'Keefe, '44, O'Keefe Motor Sales, 433 W. Water St., Kalamazoo, Mich. | 
Lansing — Bernard J. Mayottc, '50, 1130 Hitching Post, E. Lansing, Mich. 
.Wonroe-;-Hugh J. Laughna, '40, 1587 Rii'erview, Monroe, Mich. 
Muskegon — Stanley R. Tyler, Jr., '58, 2211 Reneer St., -Nluskegon, Mich. 
Saginaw Valley — Gerald E. Carroll, . 46, 2124 SLxth St., Bay City, Mich. ( 
Top of Michigan — Ed%%'ard L. Molo­ncy, '17, 416 East State St., Che­boygan, Mich. 
AflNNESOTA 
Turin Cities — John F. Clifford, '38, 984 Ashland Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI 
William H. Miller, '30, 755 Gillespie Pi., Jackson, Miss. 
MISSOURI 
Kansas City — Harold S. Solomon, '47, 1221 W. 71st Terrace, Kansas City, Mo. 
St. Louis — G. T. "Connie" Lane, '57, 11534 Clayton Rd., St. Louis, Mo. 
MONTANA 
Bernard Grainey, '43, 906 -Ave., Helena, Montana. 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs — Dr." James J. Leahy, '42, 3108 Lincoln BU-d., Omaha 31, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY Central — William A. Richartlson, '55, 7 Orchard Rd., Piscataway, N.J. New Jersey Shore — George A. Baris­cillo, Jr.. '44, 444 Golf Rd., Deal Park, N.J. New Jersey—Harry Durkin, '53, 24 Bianford Place, Ncnark, N.J. South Jersey — James B. Carbon, '56, 624 CUnton Ave., Haddonfield, N.J. t 
NEW MEXICO 
Richard R. Everroad, '41, 2323 Mor­row Rd., N.E., Albuquerque, N.M. 
NEW YORK Albany — Frank E. O'Brien. '58, 99 Brookline Ave., Albany, N.y. BuSalo — Paul D. BaUing, '53, 525 Orchard Place, North Tonawanda, N.Y. Cen/roJ—Francis W. Cahill, Jr., '59, J% 101 Woodlawn Terr., S>Tacuse, N.Y. W Golden Circle—lames F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Ki. Mid-Hudson Valley—Brian C. O'NeUl, '56, Titusville Road, Rt. No. 2, Poughkeepsie, N.Y. Mohawk Valley ^- L. Daniel Callan, '49, 62 Pearl St., New Hartford, N.Y. New York City — Augustin S. Har­dart, '42, 26 Crescent Rd., Larch­mont, N.Y. Rochester — Reginald A. Morrison, '37, 175 Biltmore Dr., Rochester 17, N.Y. Schenectady — Robert B. Piorkowski, '54. 9 Oak Hill Dr., Scotia 2, N.Y. Syracuse—See "Cential New York." 

Southern Tier — Frank F. O'Brien, 
OKLAHOMA 
-1 '34, 201 Federation BIdg., Elmira, 
.' N.Y. Oklahoma City—Walter A. IS'ashcrt, Jr., '54, 2601 Diakestone, Okla­
Triple Cities — Josepli P. Galloway, homa City, Okla. 
'51. 29 Norman Rd. (MR97). 
Binghamton, N.Y. 

Tulsa — William N. Shechan, '49, 1931 S. Evanston, Tulsa, Okla. 
TENNESSEE La Cross* — Duane D . Hatmnes, '56, 3111 S. Loser, La Crosse, Wise 
Chattanooga — 'Edward F. Davis, '43, 
506 Barrington, Signal Mountain, Merrill—Augustas H. Stange, '27, 102 Tcnn. S. Prospect St., MerriU, Wise 
Memphis — Roy E. Gillia, '56, Peat MUwaukee—Thomas L. Mulcahy, *57, Manvick Mitclicll & Co., 2500 7349 N. Lombardy Rd., Milwau­Stcrick BIdg., Memphis^ Tcnn. kee 17, Wise 
NORTH CAROLINA 

Donald J. Kelsey, '48, 1115 West-ridge Rd., Greensboro, N.C. 
NORTH DAKOTA 

William Daner, '53, 1106 S. Highland \ Acres, Bismarck, N.D. 
OHIO 

citron — Paul A. Bertsch. '60, 139 Oakdalc Ave., Akron 2, Ohio. 
Conlon—Robert L. Jolict, '51, 4610 Yale Ave., N.W., Canton 9, Ohio. 
Cincinnati—^J. Barry Sai-agc, '54, 171H Kings%**ay, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Ctoc/nnrf—Joseph E. Sotak, Jr., '40, 3340 Rumson Rd., Cleveland Heights, 18, Ohio. 
Columbus — Roger O. Zoellncr, '53, 
C 
) 185 Winthrop Rd., Columbus 14, Ohio. 
Dayton — Patrick J. Foley, '54, 501 Third Nat'I BIdg., Dayton 2, Ohio. 
Hamilton—^Jerome A. R>'an, '41, 353 South D St., Hamilton, Ohio. 
MansfiM—Lco J. Scanlon, '30, 121 Pearl Street, Crestline, Ohio. 
Northwestern — James W. Myers, '38, 230 E. Wayne St., Celina, Ohio. 
0*10 Valley—Robert R. Sincavich, '50, 134 Grant Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. 
Sandusky — Richard C. Hohlcr, '47, 2603 Eastwood Dr., Sandusky, Ohio. 
TiSn — Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., TiHin, Ohio. 
Toledo — William E. Tliecse, '57, 
f 
' 2336 Green Valley Dr., Toledo, Ohio. 
Youngstoivn—Charles J. McCrudden, '57, 124 Prestwick, Youngstown, Ohio. 
OREGON 
Phil R. Mcancy, '50, 223 Board of Trade BIdg., Portland, Ore. 
PENNSYLVANIA Central Pennsylvania—Dr. Geonie W. Katter, '41. U.S. Bank BIdg., Johnstown, Pa. Erie — Richard T. ^^cCormick, '55, 4425 Cherry St., Eric, Pa. Horruiurj—Donald R. Meek, '50, 520 Park Ave., New Cumberbnd, Pa. Lehigh Valley—Ercalo J. Spinosa, '57, 1124 Kearney St., Allentown, Pa. Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Aponc, '41, 321 Market St., Brmvnsvillc, Pa. Philadelphia—inma P. Le^•don. 268 Henley Rd., Philadelphia 51, Pa. Pittsburgh — Paul A. Hudak. '51, 705 Fair\'ieW Ave., Pittsburgh 38, Pa. Scranton — C. Richard Marsliall, '51, Connell BIdg., Scranton 3, Pa. Wilkes-Barre — Raymond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Williamsport — Joseph F. Ono, Jr., '55, 641 Oliver St., Williamsporl, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS 
Edward P. Denning, '50, 114 Green­wich Ave., E. Providence, R.I. 
SOUTH CAROLINA 
Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., Wcstwood, Charleston, S.C. 
SOUTH DAKOTA 
Black Hi/Ii—Bernard Gira, '10, Cus­ter, South Dakota. 
TEXAS 

Dallas — Warren N. Hlgtiins, *52, 6905 South Ridge Dr., Dallas 14, Texas. 
El Pajo—Edward T. Jennings, '53, 312 Olivia Circle, EI Paso, Texas. i/ous(on—Robert F. Dillon, '48. 9418 Winsome Lane, Houston 42, Texas. Mtdland'Odessa — John L. O'Hem, '37, 1001 W. 25, Odessa, Texas. 
Rio Grande Valley—Robert Aziz, '49, 1205 W. Elizabeth St., Brownsville, Texas. 
San Antonio—William E. Lamm, '50, 321 Eleanor Ave., San Antonio, Texas. 
UTAH Don J. Roney, '58, 320 East Fourth, Salt Lake City 8, Utah. 
VIRGINIA Leo F. Burke, '44, 900 Blanton Ave., Richmond, Va. Tidewater—Phillip L. Russo. '49, 153 Cedar Ln., Lynnharen, Va. WASHINGTON Spokane — Richard St. John, '56, E. 2003 37th Ave., Spoliane, Wash. 99203. Western — Alex S. Toth, '49, 4527 Second Ave., N.E., Seattle 5, Wash. WEST VIRGINIA Cyril XL Reich, '39, 903 S. Drew St., St. Albans, W.Va. Central — John D . Julian, '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarksburg, W.Va. 
WISCONSIN Fox River Valley—Robert J. Simkins, '56, 210 N. Summit St., Applcton, Wise. Green Bay—Robert W. Schaefer. '53, 2522 -Martha St., Green Bay, Wise. 
Northwest lyisconsin—Ben M. Siri­anni, Jr., '60, 229 McKinley Ave., Eau Claire, Wise 
South Central—Bernard S. Mixtacki, '50, 6303 Sylvan Ln., Xfadison, Wise. 53716. 
Southeastern — Edwin E. Raymond, Jr., '49, 2820 21 St., Racine, ^Viscl 
WYOMING 
Patrick H. Meenan, '49, Midwest BIdg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 
Bengal, India—Rxv. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, Morcau House, 28 Zin­dabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
Canada — Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. 
Chile — Rev. Francis A. Provenzano, C.S.C., '42, St. George's College, Aven, Pedro de Valdivia 1423, San­tbgo, Chile. 
£<:aiirfor—John Moeller, '47, P.O. Box 213, Quito, Ecuador. 
Germany — Charles A. Hickman, '58, Schellingstrasse No. 81, Munich, Germany. 
Manila — Conrado Sanchez. Jr., '54, 83 _Mayon St., Quezon City, Phil­ippines. 
Mexico Gity—Telmo Dc Landero, '37, Eugenio 3ue No. 220, Mexico City, Mexico. 
Panama—Lorenzo Romagoza, '45, Box 3393, Panama, Rep. of Panama. 
Peru—Enrique Lullt, *45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru. 
Puerto Rico — Paul McManus, *34 (Vice-Pres.l, CaUe. McKinley 666, Miramar, Puerto Rico. 
Rome — Vincent G. McAloon, '34 (Secretary), Palazzo Brancaccio, Lar ^ Brancaccio, 82, Rome, Italy. 

CH.ARLES CALL^VHAN, director of sports pub­
licity. He outlined his duties at the University Burlington 
and some outstanding memories in his 18 years The Burlington, Iowa, Notre Dame Club recently 
at Notre Dame. Mr. Callahan then introduced a elected officers. Mr. \VILLIAM B.\UER, Class of 
few guests in attendance that evening, Amherst 1937, of 119 Marietta Street, Burlington, is presi­
College coach Jim Ostendarp, Chicopcc High coach dent. Mr. VERNON H. BRINCK, of 501 North 
Clubs 

Bill Moge, and Rudy Konieczny, a Chicopce High 6th Street, Burlington, is vice-president. Mrs. 
tackle who will be entering Notre Dame in the HAROLD RILEY, of 814 North 4th Street, fall on an athletic scholarship. Burlington, is secretary-treasurer. [Baltimore At this uTiting the club is looking into the I have enjoyed my term as president particularly At tlie Baltimore Club's Universal Notre Dame 
prospect for some t\-pe of a summer event, the because of the renewed association with the campiu details of which are still undecided. the position has afforded. 
Night ceremonies last spring President THOM^IS 
SHINE presented the ND Man of the Year Award —Hx\ROLD McKENNA JR., Sco'.-Treas. 
—EDWARD W. DAILEY, Retiring Pres. 

to WILLIAM L. GAUDREAUj former president, for his "dedication to the University and to his fellow alumni in Maryland." Boston 
Calumet Region 
As announced in the last issue, F.ATHER HES­BURGH was the guest of the Boston ND Club on The Notre Dame Club of the Calumet Region Berkshires Universal Notre Dame Night in April at the held its Annual Smoker on Tuesday evening, ^lay The Notre Dame Club of the Berkshires ob-
Sheraton Plaza Hotel. 19, 19M, at St. Thomas More Hall, Munstcr, sen'ed its fifth annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Indiana. The featured speaker was Ara Par-Tlie event was held on April 13, 1964, at the Wen­
seghian, the new head coach of the *'Fighting dell-Sherwood Hotel in Pittsfield, Mass., with a Buffalo 
Irish" football team. Other members of the staff cocktail party followed by dinner. On Tuesday, May 2G, 1964, in the Town 8c 
were also present. ZIGGY CZAROBSKI, a well-known sports orator and a member of one of 
First on the program, whicli was conducted by Country- Room of the Lenox Hotel, Buffalo, we ^JIM FARRELL, was an introduction of the new had a meeting to discuss our program for the Leahy's greatest teams, was the master of cere­monies. 
officers, who arc as follows: President, AL BZDULA; coming year. We had some discussion on summer Vice-President, JIM FARRELL; and Secretary-activities, especially the golf outing, st^ or family The Notre Dame Club of the Calumet Region is Treasurer, HAROLD McKENNA, JR. picnic. We arc also planning an excursion this fall. planning a bus trip to the Notre Dame-Wisconsin 
This was followed by a short talk by the Right On Thursday, June 25, 19&4, we again observed football game on September 26, 1964. The game Rev, Msgr. Henry Burke, pastor of the Sacred Notre Dame Night at Buffalo Raceway. DICK 
will be played at Madison, Wisconsin, and it will Heart Church in Pittsfield. ^VAGNER was in cliargc, assisted bv HENRY be the first appearance of the *'Fighting Irish" BALLING JR., ED COSGROVE and President under their new coach, .Ara Parscghian. 
Next on the agenda was the highlight of the evening—the awarding of the FATHER HES­
PAUL D. BALLING. Thanks to Raceway owner The buses will leave at 8 a.m. sharp from the BURGH plaque. Tlie nominating committee, com­
JIM DUNNIGAN SR. Hammond Cine Center Parking Lot. Please try-posed of DR. JOSEPH WILK, BERNARD ANGE 
We arc now investigating the possibility of a to arrive early. Coffee, and rolls will be scr\'cd be­DMD, and FREDERICK GABRIEL MD, an­one-day football excursion to Pittsburgh. The game fore ths buses leave. T7ie buses will return to 
nounced the awarding of the plaque to Dennis is on Saturday, November 7, 1964. ^Vc will rent a Hammond immediately after the game, and they Kelly, a June graduate from St. Joseph's High bus, and hope to keep the cost under $30 per person. will not stop for dinner. The estimated return School in Pittsfield in recognition of his outstand­JACK CONSIDINE is re\-ising our phone com­
time is 7:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. ing scJioIastic and athletic achievements. mittee and members can expect a phone call from The price of the trip ticket is $25 per couple. This This WHS followed by the introduction of the 
them this fall. ticket entitles the holder to coffee and rolls before principal speaker for the evening, who was —PAUL D. BALLING, Prcs. 
departure, rotmd trip transportation for two to 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 1964 33 
Madison, box lunch, two tickets to the game and 
beer and soft drinks m transit. 
Rcsen'ations for this trip may be made by call­
ing any officer or director. The tickets will be sold 
on a "first come-first serve" basis, and the supply 
is' limited. Tlic deadline for all rescrx'ations is 
September 1. 
The Annual Smoker was one of the most finan­
cially successful actintics the Club has ever held. 
The net proceeds were approximately $850. This 
sum represents a major step forward in our efTorts 
to meet our scholarship commitments. We wbh to 
extend a special "thank you" to all of the mem­
bers who cooperated with us by eitlier \vorking on 
the committee or by attending. The attendance at 
the Smoker exceeded 400. 
—TIMOTHY P. G.\LVIN JR., Sec>-. 
Central Florida 
Tile following members of the Xotrc Dame Club 
of Central Florida and their wives attended the 

Notre Dame International Convention held at the 
Lucax-an Beach Hotel, Bahamas: Mr. and Mrs. 

JOH.V ATKINS, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN GOO.NEN, 
Dr. and Mrs. NORBERT I.MMEL, Mr. and Mrs. 
ROY LAUGHLIN, Mr. and Mre. JOE McNA-

MARA, Mr. and Mrs. BOB PLEUS, Mr. and Mrs. 
GEORGE RUDOLPH, and Mr. BOB SMYTH. 
It was a wonderful convention and was ihor­

oughlv enjovcd bv all. 
—BOB SMYTH, Secy. 

Central New Jersey 
This ycar*s Notre Damc-Na\-y game in Pliila­

delphia will be one you surely will want to sec. 
Our n:w head coach, .Ara Parscghian, has great 
things in store for us. Also, this will be one of 
the last opportunities to sec Navy's great All-
American quarterback, Roger Staubach, in action. 
Our club is again sponsoring a trip to the game, 

consisting of a package ofTcr which Includes trans­
portation, sandwidics. beer, soda and a ticket to 
the game—all for $11. Buses will leave from 
several areas as required: Perth Amboy, Rah^vay, 
Plainfield, Somcr\-illc, etc. JOHN E. LISICKI and 
W. G. TOO.MEY arc co-chairmen of the I9G4 Ticket Committee. 
Chicago 
Each year the interest in the Club's combined 

Golf Outing and Sports Night Dinner continues to 
increase in tempo. Tliis year's program, scheduled 
for Monday, Aug. 3, at Elmhur^t Country Club, 
certainly falls into the pattern. 
TTie reasons arc self-evident. Each year COL. 

FRED SNITE's course seems to become more 
beautiful and more challenging. This year's Sports 
Night program, with coaches ARA PARSEGHIAN 
and JOHNNY DEE on the bill, also brought out 
all the faithful. 
A three-man committee from the board, consist­ing of TONY GIROLAMI, JOE RIGALI and GEORGE MARCUCCI, provided the overall direc­tion for this year's event. AL HANEY and JIM RYTHER served as co-chairmen and did a bang-up job. 
We'll have more on the prize ^vinners in the 

next issue. The officers and board certainly appre­
ciate the support provided by the prize donors, as 
well as those members who attended. 
PAT SHAN-NON, TOM CAREY and JOHNNY LATTNER already have started planning this year's Knutc Rockne Memorial Dinner, whicli will be held in early December. Again this year we will salute the outstanding scholar-athlete in the Catholic, Public, and Suburban leagues. This event has grown from a luncheon for 100 to a dinner banquet for 1,000 in just five years, and we hope that you make it a regular event on your De­cember schedule. 
JACK THORN'TON will direct the planning of next year's Communion Breakfast, which will be held during Lent, He will be assisted by JOHN SCALLAN and WALT ROGERS. 
Any committee will have a difficult time Im­proving on the job that HOWARD PHALIN did this year as BOB NEWHART and ARA PAR­SEGHIAN wowed 700 members and guests in the grand ballroom of the Palmer House. If any chairman can do it, however, his name has to be ED MORAN. He's alrcadv on the job. BOB LEANDER and NICK BOHLING will aid Ed on this planning committee. 
Here are the committee chairman assignments on the board for the current year: Nominating, LEN SKOGLUND; Election, JOHN KELLEHER; Budgeting, PAT SHAN'NON; Auditing, JOE DELLA MARIA; Student-Alumni AfTairs, BILL 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
RE\TCOLDS; Membership, FRED HOLZL; Public 
Relations, JOE ARCHIBALD; Interviewing, ED 
FOX; Prep School, TO.M lUYES; and Special 
Events, KEN SCHUSTER. 
I want to salute JIM JENNINGS again for his 

many years of service as Prep Scliool diairman, 
Jim represented Notre Dame with honor at many 
College Nights throughout the Chicago area. He 
did this work without any significant committee 
help, and without fanfare. Again, Jim, our heart­
felt thanks! 
We would like to repeat our open Invitation to 

all members, extended at UND Night, to take an 
active part in Club afTalrs. A phone call to the 
Club office (AN 3-6063), or a i^asual remark to a 
friend en the board, is all that's needed to start 
a rewarding term of Club service. 
For instance, both ED FOX (Interviewing) and 

TOM HAYES (Prep Scliool) are forming their 
committees now for the busy fall season. While 
Tom and his committee represent ND at College 
Nights In the city and suburbs, Ed and his asso­
ciates interview each boy who applies to Notre 
Dame. Tliesc Interviews last at least 20 minutes 
each, so you can see It takes a large committee 
to handle 300 or so boys. 
Tlie Rockne Committee, too, will need many hands and feet to get this Important show on the road. So, if you're Interested in pitching in, get on the plionc today. 
We appreciate the active cooperation afforded by those who have paid their 1964 dues. Tliis year's director>- is going to press soon, and we would appreciate it if you would send in the information card and your dues check immediately so that the director>- is current. Your dues assure a boldface listing in the directorv-. In addition, dues revenue offsets our office expense as well as contributing toward a balance that can be put into the Club's scliolarship fund, 
—PAUL FULLMER '55, Pres. 

Cleveland 
The First Annual Notre Dame-Rockne Family Festival was held Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday, July 5, 6 and 7, 1964, at Cedar Point, Sandusky, Ohio. 
The event brought together Notre Dame families from the Ohio and adjoining areas in a beautiful summer resort facility that has outstanding beach and boating, and is on its way to becoming the Disneyland of the Midwest. The selection of this site had a second major purpose—to renew Notre Dame contacts at a spot which is rich In Notre Dame tradition as the site of Notre Dame student summer empIo>-ment over a long period of years, during which time Knute Rockne, Gus Dorals, and their teammates perfected on the Cedar Point beach some of the forward pass proficienc>' that revolutionized football and brought Notre Dame 
into the Eastern big-time spotlight through the 
triumph over Army in 1913. A 
It is further believed that with this combination 

of old tradition and new facilities, this annual 
picnic—sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of 
Cleveland—can be a spot for introducing promising 
young men in the area to both the tradition and 
the current coaching staffs of the University. 
The Breakers Hotel, modernized, had rooms for 

those who came on Sunday and stayed until Tuesday. 
Adequate facilities were available for one-day fam­
ily visits, including picnic tables, restaurants, con­
cession stands, bathhouses, boats, etc. Tlic many 
modern rides on the new midway offered special 
low prices to Notre Dame families. 
A Mass was offered by FR. LOU THORNTON 

at noon on Sunday, July 5, to open the Notre Dame ^ 
event. On Monday evening there were special fire-" 
works display's, but Monday vras largely open for 
golf, swimming, boating, and amusements. Tuesday, 
at 11 o'clock, a new plaque commemorating Knute 
Rockne and the Notre Dame influence on football, 
which had some of its origins on this beautiful 
Point in Lake Erie, was dedicated in the hotel 
rotunda. 
The Alumni Office and the Cleveland Club, through DON .MILLER and JOHN CHAPLA (co-chairmen), believe now that the Notre Dame family in tlie Midwest has seen this amazing spot, subsequent picnics will be largely a matter of selecting the dates. 
Colorado Springs 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Colorado Springs held their Universal Notre Dame Night at the Moors Restaurant, April 23, under the chair­manship of OTTO K. HILBERT, president of the Club. 
Tlie theme for this year's meeting was *'Extcnd­ing the Tradition of Great Teaching." 
Guest speaker for the evening was Lt. Col. Oscar H. RcclitschafTen, Associate Professor of Po­litical Science and Special Research Associate at the USAF Academy. Lt. Col. RcclitschafTen re­cently completed a book entitled Reflections on Space, which has received extremely favorable reviews since it was published by the USAF Acad­emy. His speech was entitled "TTie Fruit that Turned to Ashes," a study of Nazi brutality and incfficienc>-. Lt. Col. Rechtschaffcn, who personally ^ witnessed four years of Nazi rule as a child before coming to tlie United States in 1937, had this qualification among many others which make him eminently able to speak on the subject of Nazi rule. For example, during World War 11 he was a combat intelligence officer and a prisoner­of-war interrogator for the United States Army. He has been Air Force intelligence liaison officer to the West German government from 1951 to 1953, and had several positions In counterlntelll-
CHIGAGO—The Notre Dame Club*s annual executive testimonial dinner, which honors retiring officers and directors, was held this year at the Illinois Athletic Club. Relaxed after a big prime rib dinner are: seated (1. to r.) Ed Aforan '34, George Schiewe M2, Joe Delia Maria '27, Geoi^c Ross '39, Ed Dunn '64, Chuck Falkenbcrg Jr. '52 (treasurer), Paul Fullmer '55 (president), George Marcucci '41, Ed Mieszkowski '46, Nick Bohling Jr. '31, Tom Carey '55, and Pat Montroy *53 (secretary). Standmg arc: Joe Archibald Jr. '50, Norris Bishton Jr. '57, Jack Barry '43, Ken Schuster '49, Fred Holzl *58, Walt Rogers '44, Don Ross '53 (Foundation representative), 
Jack Thornton *44, Bill Reynolds '54 (second vice-president). Jack Moynahan Jr. '57, Jim Malooly '55, Jim Haggerty '52, Bert Metier '31, and Ed Fox '37. 
1964 
gcncc, intelligence, and special investigations for the Air Force during the period 1945 to 1951. 
* Col. Rechtschan'en set out the primary factors 
' which existed in German society in the 1930*5 which tnabled a person like Adolph Hitler to rise to power. His speech was supported by documentary movies whicli showed the Nazi propaganda machine in operation, and showed the results of race exter­mination at some of the infamous prison camps like Buchenwald and Dachau. 
The blame for the atrocities which occurred, the Colonel said, lay not so much on the German people as a whole, even though most all of them knew what was happening, but on their weakness as human beings under the political structure to which they voluntarily surrendered because of some benefit they saw in it for them. They did not realize that any totalitarian s>'stcm, once it comes into being, demands complete obedience to the state, and that consequently, once the s>'stem obtains full control, any crackpot or evil idea that has tenure in the mind of the leading group may well be carried out, regardless of its immoral nature, since the will of the society to resist has been sapped by the environment of habitual obe­dience which a totalitarian system develops. 
Connecticut Valley 
FLOYD F. RICHARDS '42, veteran announcer of WTIC radio and AVTIC-TV, was named Con­necticut Valley ND Man of the Year at a state­wide UND Night obscr\-ance addressed by FATHER HESBURGH in April at the Yankee Silversmith Restaurant, Wallingford, Conn. 
The return of professional football to Hartford this fall after an absence of many years will be accomplished largely through the efforts of two Notre Dame alumni. 
The Hartford Charter Oaks will represent Con­necticut in the Atlantic Coast League, which has teams in cities from Portland, Me., to Atlanta, Ga. Partners in the new venture are William F. Brewer, Hartford businessman, and his four sons, one of whom, NED BREWER, is a Notre Dame graduate of 1954. 
The other Notre Dame man in the operation 
If you*re planning to attend the 
NOTRE DAME­AIR FORCE ACADEMY GAME 
October 10 at Colorado Springs 
The Notre Dame Club of Denver 
has scheduled the following events: 
Friday, Oct. 9 
Notre Dame Cocktail Party and Recep­tion, Ballroom, Albany Hotel, Denver, Colo., 8 p.m. on. 
Saturday, Oct. 10 
Notre Dame Rally, 12 Noon at the East Entrance of the Stadiimi, with ND Stu­dents and Cheerleaders. 
Notre Dame Dance and Alimmi Party, Main Ballroom, Brown Palace Hotel, Denver, 9 p.m.-l a.m. Two Bands and Guests including Fr. Joyce, Jim Arm­strong, Moose Krausc and the Athletic Department Staff. 
For detuls, check with Club President Jim Hilger, McDonnell & Co., 2107 Tower Bldg., Denver. Telephone CHerry 4-4641. 

EL PASO— UND Night was a family affair in West Texas, with the following wives and husbands present: (standing, !.-r.) Jaime Mora, Hal Foester, Jack 0*Toole, Jim Dorsey, Harriett Dorsey, Jack Haddox, Carmen Haddox, Mr. and Mrs. Galen Cawley, Sharon 0*Malley, Bob O'Malley, Mary Brock, Gorman Brock and Dick Smith; (seated) Cuca Mora, Boots O'TooIe, Diane Foester, James Redding, campus guest Jim Cooney, Ed Jennings, Gene Jennings and Dixie Smith. Jack Haddox was ND Man of the Year. 
is FRED WALLXER '51, former star lineman for 
the Fighting Irish and the Chicago Cardinals of 
the NFL, who comes to Hartford as head coach 
of the Charter Oaks. He has been serving as an 
assistant at Tulane U. 
—DON FOSKETT, Sec>-. 
Dallas 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas held its ann'.ial Universal Notre Dame Banquet on May 28, 19G4, at the Statler Hilton Hotel. The Most Rev. THOM.AS 

K. GORMAN, Bishop of the Dallas-Ft. Worth Diocese, was named Notre Dame Man of the Year for his devotion and leadership In the Diocese. Some 150 alumni, students, guests, and friends of Notre Dame were present at the affair. ARA PARSEGHIAN, head football coach, was the prin­cipal speaker at the dinner. Mr. ED RECKER of the University, presented a filmstrlp on the Challenge 11 fund-raising campaign. DON HARRIS, past president of the Club, presented the new officers: WARREN HIGGINS, president; FRED EICHORN, first vice-president; KENNETH AN­DERSON, second vice-president; JOHN ROGERS, secretary; and JAKE MOSER JR., treasurer. Coaches of Catholic high schools In the area were In attendance as guests of the club. L.ANC.\STER SMITH, a director of the national Alumni Asso­ciation, was master of ceremonies. 
—JOHN ROGERS, Secy. 

Dearborn 
Tlie new officers called the first general meeting in April at BILL DE CRICK's home, where Pres. JOE BYRNE treated attendees to automobile rac­ing movies, a ride in a Mustang and some losing poker. Afterwards JERRY KELLY was wondering what to do about "In Between" meetings. The May meeting turned into a hide-and-seek affair as CHARLIE KITZ sent out incorrect directions to BILL DOSMANN's house. So as not to get lost again, LARRY DOLAN offered hts residence for the June meeting. 
JOHN FISH JR. was clialrman of a vcr>- suc­cessful Communion Breakfast, held at the Dearborn Inn following Mass at St. Bemadette Church. REV. JAMES MALONEY. the Detroit Arch­diocesan director of the Society for the Propaga­tion of the Faith, gave an inspiring commentary* on the work and sacrifices made by the lay mis­sionaries from this area. GEORGE BALL was presented with a past president plaque and all 56 people present applauded their appreciation. 
The Club welcomed new members DON AN­DRYSIAK, JIM DISIGNANO, JIM ENGLEHART, DICK FELLRATH, VINCE LAURENZO, DENNIS LUCZAK, BILL SIDELKO and JOHN TRACY. 
Summer events included the Annual Family Picnic 

at Camp Dearborn June 14. a Summer Dance at 
the PAUL KLUDING home August I and another 
at the Detroit Yacht Club Aug. 15. The Club wU! 
make a trip to the Purdue game this fall. 
—CHARLIE KITZ »58, Secy.-Trcas, 

Decatur 
The Decatur Club GotC Outing took place on June 16, 19G4, at the Country Club of Decatur. Tee-off time was 1:30 p.m., followed by cocktails and dinner at 6:30 p.m. B. A. Marty was chairman. 
Denver 
FATHER HESBURGH honored Denver's Notre Dame Club with his presence at our Universal Notre Dame Night. Father interested all the "Domers,** their wives and guests with his nmdown on the development of the University in conjunc­tion with the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Au-arded the Club's annual scholarship ^«*a5 a young Regis High School lad by the name of WILLIAM YEAGER. Bill u-as selected over scores of other applicants for his overall scholastic ex­cellence and his participation In school acti\*ities. 
Installed as officers for the vear were JIM HILGER '56, pres.; PAT McMAHON '49, wce­pres.; CHUCK BAIER '54, treas.; and KEN AD.AMSON '60, secy. Board members include TOM GARG.AN '49, LEON ARCHER *29, FRANK CONWAY '27, JIM COUGHLIN '57, GENE BUSH 'St, and GERRY SMITH '27. 
Under the leadership of our hard-working Presi­dent JIM HILGER the Denver Club is off to its best year. The highlight of the year will be the Notre Dame vs. Air Force game scheduled in Oc­tober. Preparations are under way to host the Notre Dame student body on their student trip. Our good Mayor TOM CURRIGAN '41 helped in obtaining permission for the trip from University officials. 
Last year's Club president. JIM COUGHLIN, is heading the committee for the rally the night before the game and the dance following the game. The dance and rally will be the meeting place for all visiting students, alums and guests. 
A package deal of transportation, box lunch, and a ticket for the game is being offered by the club through the ticket committee' including JACK RYAN '47. FRANK CONWAY *27, JIM SHEEHAN '50, and ED KIAHONEY '52. 
A newcomer to our Club, GENE MATHEWS, will have the information booth to ^ d the more than 2,000 guests who are expected. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 35 
^^ 

A • ft / 1 
MANILA—Father Joyce, the University's globe-trotting executive vcep, touched down in the Philippines for an ND Night speech. At the head table (from left): L. J. Gotuaco '54, new Club president; Mr. and Mrs. A. F. Gonzalez '25; Mrs. Gotuaco; Conrado Sanchez Jr., retiring president. Alumni present included (l.-r., seated) J. A. Gonzalez, M. Donato, 
A. F. Gonzalez, Fr. Joyce, C. Sanchez Jr., J. F. Gotuaco, Bro. Benedict and E. Brias; (standing) W. W. Stanley, B. Lichaytoo, 
I. Arroyo, E. Roxas, L. J. Gotuaco, R. Ysmael, A. F. Gotuaco, S. Velasco, D. Dy, P. J. Gotuaco, A. Roccs, R. Yao and Bro. Gracian of Mar>-. Fr. Joyce's talk in June, on the last leg of a world tour, renewed Fr. Hesburgh's '61 visit. 
Other events for the summer include our family 
picnic and our stag golf outing. 

Our congratulations to our ex-Director of Parks and Recreation—JOH.V DEE '48, '52—who has been named coacii of the ND basketball team. Good luck, John. Best wishes also to JOHN MORAX '52, who is running for State Itcpresen­tative on the Republican ticket. Our thanks to GERRY SMITH '27 and his assistant CVRL EIBERGER '52, '54 for their work for the Foun­dation. 
—KE.N' AD.\MSOX '60, Scc>-. 

Des Moines 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held April 25, 1964. Our guests from the University were REV. CHARLES I. .McCARRAGHER, track coacli ALEX ^\^LSON and the Notre Dame track team. Mr. BERT McGRAXE, retired sports writer for the Des Moines Register and Tribtme, was named Notre Dame Man of the Year. 
Alumni present were as follows: JOSEPH BI­SIGNANO, JAMES BOESE.V, JOSEPH CiVSEY, ANTHO.VY CRITELLI, JAMES DIN.NEN, ROB­ERT DUFFY, P.AUL EIDE, JOSEPH JOYCE, FRANCIS MCGINN , JAKE NOON.4N, CLEM SCHNOEBELE.N, JOHN SWEE.NEY and JOSEPH WTIALEN. 
In May JOSEPH JOYCE held a College Day Program for the junior class at Dowling High School in Des Moines. A film about the University was shown and a question and answer period followed, 
—JOSEPH BISIGNANO, Secy. 

Detroit 
LOU BASSO '53, our new president, was chair­man of our Annual Business Meeting on March 31, at the University Club. SLvtecn members were nominated for Board of Directors in all class groups and ballot the following week. It is interesting to note that 713 votes were cast. They were counted by ED GAGE '29 and LARRY SMITH '49. The seven elected members were installed at the Direc­tors' Meeting held on April 23 at the Uni\-ersitv Club. The%- arc DAN KELLY '57, JACK MUR­RAY '57, LOU B.\SSO '53, GUS CIFELH '50, JACK MORGAN '51, JOHN .ANHUT '44 and MAL KNAUS '25. Many thanks for a job well done to those directors retiring due to the limita­tion set bv the bv-laws: BOB CRONIN '41, BILL RONEY '48 and MARC VERBEIST '22. Some faces at the meeting were DON FISHER '47, DR. PAT LYNCH '57. TO.M and CAL TOOK '48, and RALPH SCHUMAKER '49 and .4RT PULTE '53. 
Hats off to Chairman JOHN ANHUT '44 and JOE CAREY '32 for one of the most successful Universal ND Nights in recent history. Close to 600 Alumni and Friends heard MIKE CAR­MICHAEL, chairman of the board of Associates Investment Co., speak on the "Pursuit of Excel­lence." Toastmaster was Councilman ED CONNER '30. FR. JOHN E. WALSH represented the Uni­versity. This party was well attended by local alumni. Some *'in the know" say there was a 65% increase in alumni attendance (keep it up). Just a few of your alumni friends in attendance were RUDY STONISCH '32. JOHN SENNETT '55, WALT SEERV '50, "VAN" VAN HOLLEBEKE '36, TOM MORAN '30, RAY BONINI '27, BOB 
WINK '50. JI.\I BYR.VE '43. JERRY KELLY '53, 
LOU CONROY '27, ERNIE BORUS '55 and on 
and on and on. 
Your praveis are requested for one of our most 

courageous alumni. DAVID VAN WALLACE '27, 
who passed away in .April. 
Vice-President TO.M MOORE '34 and Secretary LOU BOSCO '38 traveled to ND to welcome this year's graduating seniors into our Club. 
A record attendance at the Golf Outing held on June 16 at Plum Hollow, thanks to STAN INSLEY '31 and J.ACK .MORGAN '51. Our guest, .\RA PARSEGHIAN, took the trophy with a score of 77. Some of those listening to .\ra's remarks 
MILWAUKEE—The last Holiday Dance had (above) sweet music and sweet talk for the sitter-outers, plus (below) a trip past a tempting buffet, being sampled approvingly by Mrs. Al Murphy (far left) and by Mr. and Mrs. Bill Duma. 
about the coming season were J. O. LOOK '49, HUGH McGUIRE '58, JUDGE RAY KELLY '15, LEE MOOR.MA.N '37, ART CRO.VIN '37, TO.M SHEEHAN '39, TERRY KEATING '60, ART SHANNON *59. Highlight of the evening was GORE HASTINGS' '37 spirited direction of the group singing of the "\'ictor>* March" and other songs. A good time was had by alt. Guest Arthur Zebadec won the trip for two to Bermuda. The drawing was a success, thanks to Chairman JOHN O'NEILL '48 with a big assist from the "old" pros JOHN PANELLI '49 and BOB CRO.NIN '41. 
—L;\RRY SMITH, Dir. 

El Paso 
Prof. JOHN HADDOX was named ND Man of the 

Year from El Paso. 
Jack was honored at our UXD Night meeting, 

held in the Cruz Blanca Brcwer>' in Juarez, Mexico, 
on April 9. JAIME MORA arranged the affair 
for the Club. 
Wc certainly enjoyed having JIM COONEY visit 

with us for KD Night and bring us up to date 
on the actintics at Notre Dame. 
—ED JENNINGS, Prcs. 

Erie 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Erie held their annual golf outing the first w*eekend in August. This affair was held at the Kahkwa Country Club. RICHARD McCORMICK '55 won the event with a blazing 69, followed by JOSEPH BLAKE '61, who loured the local layout in even par 71. JOE BARBER '36 and BOB BARBER '40 tied for third with 72. JOHN McCORMICK '33 toured the course in IM and won low net. 
Among those who attended the golf matdi and the banquet were: Messrs. & Mmes. WILLIAM AMANN, JOSEPH BARBER '36, ROBERT BAR­BER '40, THO.MAS BATES '60, ROBERT BECK­ER '60, LEO BRUGGER SR. '34, LEO BRUG­GER JR. '61, DONALD BUSECK '30, LEO CAR­NEY '30, JACK D.\UT '32, JA.MES DWYER '37, JIM EHRMAN '61, GREG JAMES, HOWARD JAMES ESSICK '41, ALEXANDER S. GALLA '47, THOMAS GALLAGHER '35, CORNELIUS E. GEARY '40, WILLIAM GRANT '45, PHILLIP HAGGERTY '53, EDWARD KERN '56, HERBERT 
G. KERN '34, EL.MER KOHLMILLER '49, NOR­BERT LEWIS '49, JOHN LOCHTEFELD '55, WALTER LUEDTKE, ROBERT LUKES '49, JOSEPH MacKRELL '50, JIM MAHONEY '51, 
THOXL^s MCCARTHY '49, JOHN MCCORMICK '53, RICHARD McCORMICK '55, RAY .Mc-ENER Y '46, GEORGE MEAD '27, DUANE MILLER '30, GERALD P. O'CONNOR '29, EARL 
T. O'CONNOR '19, PAUL C. ROCHE, ROB­ERT ROCHE, LEWIS J. SHIOLENO '49, JOHN SCHELL '49, JOHN F. SITTERLE '60, KUURICE O. SMITH '44, JOSEPH STADLER '33, LAWRENCE STADLER '29, JOHN M. VAS­ELIN '49, ROBERT F. ^VESCHLER '30. ROBERT WINSCHEL '51, CHARLES WITTiLWJ '31, MI­CHAEL YARBENET '47, JOHN S. YOUNG '51 and ANTHONY ZAMBROSKI '52. 
Also Messrs. BRUCE BIGWOOD '62, JOSEPH BLAKE '61, MIKE McCORMICK '61, JOHN MIESEL '62, JOHN PALMISANO '55, Atty. THOMAS BARBER '24 and JERRY EHRM.AN '63. 
JOE BLAKE '61 was home for several weeks in 
A 
^ ^ 
^ ^ 
» ^ 

36 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
the early part of June. He is enjoying life at Notre Dame while studying for the priesthood (|| there. Mr. and Mn. FRANK RILEY, Honorary­*57, had a new baby girl, May 31, 1964. The baby's grandparents, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN Mc-CORMICK, Honorary *17, attended the graduation of their youngest son, Pat, in June, from ND. —LEO J. BRUGGER JR., Scc>-. 
Flint 
Prof. JOHN J. BRODERICK, assistant dean of tlic ND Law School, was the guest speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner of the Flint Club in May. TIM HALLIGAN was chairman of the program, which featured the very unusual presentation of a double Man of the Year .\ward 

rA to P.VUL C. HUGHES, a local real estate broker, 
^ ^ and ROBERT J. MacDONALD, an attorney. Last year's winner was OSMUND KELLY, former mayor and postmaster, now executive director of the Manufacturers' Assn. of Flint. 
Fort Lauderdale 
/\s you can well imagine, the thoughts of the members of the Fort Lauderdale Club still pri­marily remain with the wonderful weekend which wc spent In conjunction with the Palm Beach and Miami Clubs, at the Lucayan Beach Hotel on the Grand Bahama Island in the British West Indies. Our Universal Notre Dame Night banquet which was held there on Saturday night, April 25, was an occasion which we will all remember and for this wc all owe a real vole of thanks to D.-VN DO\\*NEY '44 of the Palm Beach Club who, as toastmaster extraordinaire, made the evening en­joyable for us all. We were also privileged to hear a very mox'ing address by FATHER WALSH of the University, and his presence at the conven­tion gave many of us the opportunity to say hello again and hear firsthand of the many new devel­opments taking place on campus. We have begun planning for ne.\t year's convention and again we plan to hold the convention "overseas." The con­vention attendance is open to all graduates. This year over 280 people attended, including graduates now living in Indiana and Illinois. By the way, in our lost column wc neglected to mention the fine job done by FRxVNK CAREY '46 in seeing that everyone was properly taken care of on arrival. 
The Fort Lauderdale Club continues to grow and during our May meeting wc welcomed ROY 
T. CONLEY '19, EDWARD P. HUISKING '37, JAMES D. KURTH '57, and THEODORE P. MARBAUGH '26 as new members of our Club and we know that they will prove to be valuable additions to our membership. Our May meeting also brought to our members another interesting speaker, B. Sanford Gusky. Sandy Is head of Poly­graph Consultants, Inc., in Fort Lauderdale, and spoke to the Club on the tise of the polygraph machine by business management and in the field of crime detection. Included among the members present were TOM SULLIVAN '48. DON DORINI '53, BOB GORE *3I, CHARLIE RUDD *54, BILL 

9 MOTSETT '34, BILL MAUS '53, JOHN McGINN '54, and CHARLIE QUINN '34. As usual, the club enjoyed a delicious meal at the Governor's Club Hotel prior to the business meeting. 
With summer coming on, you would expect the Club activities to taper off until the fall. Not so with the Fort Lauderdale Club under the leader­ship of President BOB McDONOUGH '52. Bob and the Board of Directors, with the Club's ap­pro\'al. have a full schedule mapped for the forth­coming months. We had another interesting speaker scheduled to speak to the Club during our June meeting, and in July we planned to join another club in the Fort Lauderdale area in a Fourth of July party. August plans at present are uncertain, 

# but September promises to be a full month with our annual Freshman Sendoff on Thursday, Sept. 10, and our annual Notre Dame Golf Tournament around Sept. 15. In October the Club will hold the annual sweepstakes drawing with the winner being awarded two tickets to the Na\y game In Philadelphia on Oct. 31. An all-e.\pense trip to the game, Including spending money, is also part of the prize. Tlie proceeds of this drawing go to the Notre Dame Foundation, as you know. Novem­ber is the month of our annual TV party and buffet, and this year wc will be able to watch the Fighting Irish down the Spartans , from Michigan State. That is our first prediction, by the way, and we feel sure that it will bring success to the Irish. 
There is not too much more of interest to re­

'* 
port at present, so wc will close \vith this and with our standing invitation to you and to all of our fellow alumni, to nslt our Club when you are in Fort Lauderdale. 
—GEORGE PATTERSON L-'58, Scc>-. 
Fort Wayne 
Assistant Athletic Director HUGH DEVORE was a great hit as a speaker at the Fort Wayne Club's Universal ND Night celebration under the co-chairmanship of TR^WERS McDONx\LD and CH.\RLES COLLIGAN. There were short talks by Diocesan Superintendent of Schools MSGR. WIL­LIAM LESTER and Club President JERRY HIPS­KIND, and 1963 winner TOM O'REILLY pre­sented the Man of the Year Award to the daugh­ter of JAMES F. KEENJVN In Jim's absence. 
Green Bay 
Illness of President BOB SCHAEFER and a con­flict in dates forced cancellation of the UND Night dinner schcdidcd for .April, but we are sure the Green Bay Club followed up with another program of which we have yet to be advised. Check the nc.\t issue for a report from Packcrland. 
Houston 
The Universal Notre Dame Night Banquet, held May 26 at the River Oaks Country Club, was a resounding success. Some 135 area alumni turned out to hear Head Coach AR^\ PARSEGHIAN and Asst. Foundation Director ED RECKER. AL DECRANE '53 acted as master of ceremonies. JIM.MY YOUNG '39 was presented the ND Man of the Year Award by Club Pres. BOB DILLON '48. .MIKE SH.\NNO.\ '59 should be commended for an excellent job as chairman of this event. Among those enjoying themselves were RALPH SAUER '60, GEORGE STRAKE JR. '57, DAVE MILLER '59, LEO LINBECK JR. '56, JOHNNY MADDEN '63. THOM.\S BRENN^VN '44, GEORGE McIL\LE and BILL PEDEN. 
The Club is also planning a full slate of upcoming activities Including the .-\nnual Picnic Saturday, Aug. 22, at Valley Lodge; an informal smoker in early October at Hamm's Brcwer%-; a Football Party (ND vs. Mich. State) on Sat., Nov. 14; a Family Communion Breakfast on Dec. 6; a Christ­mas Dance on Dec. 27 at the Houston Club; and a rally before the ND vs. U. of Houston Basketball game here on Jan. 9. These functions should pro­vide our alumni plenty of opportunities to remain in contact with each other and the University, as well as keep the Club Officers and event chair­men busy for the remainder of the year. 
Other news items Include the Impending state of marital bliss for MIKE SHxVNNON and DAVE MILLER this summer and a family addition for Joan and AL DECRANE, their sixth. The Qnb also wishes to welcome several new members: CARL BALCERAK '49, who has been appointed managing editor of the Texas Catholic Herald, FRANK PENDARVIS '43, transferred to Houston by Humble Oil, and PAT KILEV '58, who moved from San Antonio. 
—BILL SHARMAN '62, Secy. 
Indianapolis 

Just as our Indianapolis 500-MIIe Race should prove to be the most spectacular In years, so too does the reign of our new Pres. THO%L\S CAR­NEY '37 show signs of outstanding progress and an all-time high of enthusiasm among Club mem­bers. The officers and board of directors held their first meeting on May 19 and the following Club functions and chairmen were announced. 
Our Annual Beer Bust was scheduled this year at the McNamara Farm under the watchful eye of Chairman DICK McNAM.ARA '54. This event has always been well attended, and another record crowd was on hand. 
FR.\NCIS QUINN '42 and LEO BARNHORST *49 once again made the arrangements for our .Annual Golf Outing. Highland Country Club pro­dded the setting; July 9, 19G4. was the date. Another favorite event of our Club, the Family Picnic, will he organized by JACK ELDER '30. JOE FITZGERfVLD '44 was appointed chairman of the Fall Dance and DR. PAUL MULLER '37 will handle the arrangements for the Communion Breakfast. 
Neu^ Flashes! MIKE KILEY '56 is the new-city judge of Marion, Ind. My Informed sources tell me that he is running a "tight ship." Judge J.ACK RYAN '41 is working hard in his cam­paign for lieutenant governor on the Republican ticket. R. V. WXLSH '50 and Pres. TOM CAR­NEY *37 sojourned north to South Bend to attend the ND students' Indianapolis Club Banquet on May 6, 19&4. The affair was a success, and our Alumni Club would like to echo the sentiments of Pres. Carney and welcome the 14 graduates to our Club. 
JAMES CROSSIN '60 will intern at Methodist Hospital here in town. He is the brother-in-law of WILLL\.M K. McGOWAN '57. Welcome to our town. Jim. Other newcomers to our Club include D.AVID FOY '35 and FRANK "CHARLIE JONES'* EPSTEIN '56. Frank has already made his mark on our city and Club by giving handball lessons to a certain member of our present board of direc­tors who is thought to be a fairly good handball player hlmsclL W1LLIA.M J. MOONEY JR. '57 ^^'as elected president of Moone>--Mueller-Ward Co. Inc. 
KARL F. JOHNSON, past redpient of the "Mao of the Year Award" In 1963 Is general chairman for the St. .Augustine Home for the 
MUSKEGON—Annual Golf Outing in the Water Wonderland brought together the unlikely foursome of (l.-r.) Morse, Parseghian, Daugherty and Bocschenstein. The coaches will tangle this fall while Jim Moise reports it on ABC radio. John Bocschenstein brought Ara and Duffy together. (Muskegon Chronicle ]dioto) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 37 
Aged. The goal is 51,800,000 and under Karl's guidance the quota will be met. More anon. —JOSEPH G. BILL JR. '56, Sec^-. 
Kansas City 
A recent visit to Kansas City by DENNIS 
TROESTER of the Foundation Office for the pur­
pose of promoting Challenge 11, provided HAROLD 
SOLOMON, president of the Kansas City Club, 
with an opportunity to call a luncheon meeting of 
the past and present officers of the Club. 
The luncheon was attended by Harold Solomon, 
DICK PREZEBEL, Dennis Troestcr, CHUCK 
O'NEILL, MICHAEL HOGAN, MARTIN 
BERTSCH, JIM HIGGLVS, and CARL ERFF­
MEYER. 
Discussed at the meeting were plans for the 
annual Freshman Send-Off Dinner scheduled by 
TOM McGEE for Sept. 10. 
Also discussed was the planned Oct. 7 visit of 
**MOOSE" KRAUSE, being handled by Dick 
Prezcbel; the Oct. 10 football trip, under the 
flirection of Jim Higgins, to the ND-Air Force 
•Academy game; and tlic Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday planned by LARRY LeROY for Dec 6. 
The Club, however, was not the only one having 
luncheons. The Auxiliary, at their annual installa­
lioD luncheon meeting, presented Harold Solomon 
and TOM FLE\fING with a check for 51000 for 
Challenge II. 
This luncheon saw the installation of >frs. JOHN 
T, MASSMAN as president, Mrs. NORMAN 
SOLVES as xice-prcsident, Mrs. JAMES HEWETT 
as recording secretary, Mrs. CARL ERFFMEYER 
as corresponding secretary, and Mrs. DONALD 
lANSPA as treasurer. 
—MICHAEL J. HOGAN '56, Seo*. 
Kentucky 
The Kentucky Club has gotten ofT to a fast 
start this year. The new president, BOB \\1LLEN­

BIUNK M9, has set out to liven up the Club 
calendar by holding a meeting or social function 
every month. As an added bonus, everv' business 
meeting will feature a guest speaker, movie, or 

other diversion. Program chairman BOB HUETZ 
*58 (who doubles as Club veep in his *'sparc" 

time) has already provided interesting entertain­
ment for the first two meetings, including a film 
of the 1963 Masters Golf Tournament. 
The reli^ous activities have also received their 

due attention. A group of five spent a worthwhile 
weekend on retreat with the Trapplsts at Geth­
semant the weekend of May 22. Tlie next weekend 
a dozen of the Club faithful carried tlic ND banner 
in the Corpus ChrUii procession at Churchill DOUTIS. 
By the time v'ou read this, several social events, notably the June dinner meeting and ND-Xavier outing, will already be history. Since my cr>'stal ball is out of commission (it got all torn up trjing to pick a »nnner in the derby.') the full report on these functions v^ill have to wait until the next issue. In tlie meantime, why not get in on history In the making by planning to attend the various Club afTairs and meetings this fall? Tentative plans call for a stag with the new stu­dents, a Communion supper, and of course the ND-UK basketball game. If you arc not on the Club mailing list, drop a line to the undersigned at 1723 Deer Lane, Louisville 5, and the situation v^ill be remedied. 
See you at the next meeting. —JACK ZUFELT '57, Sccv-. 

La Crosse 
JOHN BRODERICK JR., assistant dean of the ND Lav%' School, spoke at the annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner of the X-a Crosse ND 
Club in April at the Stoddard Hotel, La Crosse, 
Wis. His theme v%-as "Extending the Tradition of Great Teaching." Club President DUANE HAMMES '56 was host for the occasion, and the blessing was given by REV. THONLAS NINNE­
MAN '50. 
Lansing 
The Notre Dame Club of Lansing sponsored a Potluck Picm'c for alumni, their wives, and friends on Saturday, July 25, 19&t, at the R. G. SCHNEIDER residence in East Lansing, Midi. 
Those v**ho were able to join us for an evening of fun, fine food, and socializin' returned a postcard enclosed with our announcement for use in notify­ing the BERNIE MAVOTTEs, who headed up the organization committee. This enabled the com-
NEW JERSEY—Four graduates of the Class of '37 got together last spring at the Northern Jersey UND Night observance at the Bow and Arrow Manor, West Orange, N.J. They are (from left) Thomas Hughes, Joseph MangeUi, Rev. Edmund Joyce CSC and Joseph Moore. Honor guest at the event, Fr. Joyce congratulated Tom Hughes and Joe Mangelli, both of whom had sons graduating from Notre Dame in June. ^ 
mittee to contact each couple attending in regard 
to the tvpc of dish they would be able to bring. 
The Sclineidcrs* residence, as in the past, pro­

vided a perfect setting far the picnic. —BOB MOONEY, Secy. 
Lehigh Valley 
Members of the Notre Dame Club of the Lehigh Valley extended v^'armest wishes to Rt. Rev. MSGR. LEO G. FINK, prothonotary apostolic, vicar gen­eral and pastor of Sacred Heart Church, on his retirement after 38 years at the post, during which time he was alvs'ays a loyal friend of the Club and the University. 
Maine 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association of Maine 

was host to the Notre Dame University' Band on 
the Tuesday following Easter. It v\'as a very fine 
concert and everyone, including the members of 
the band, had an excellent time. And it »^as a 
money-maker for the Club, because we cleared ap­
proximately $1,400 profit through the sale of 450 
patrons* tickets, which assured us not only a profit 
but no problem at the box oflice tlic night of the 
concert. 
Although we are only a small group with no more than six located in the general area of Lewis-ton, we were able to make this an excellent club function. We arc told we are one of the feu* clubs that sponsors the University Band and it seems a shame that more clubs do not use this very worthwhile money-making plan. Those who v%'orked particularly hard on the project were PAUL SCUL­LY, MIKE MADDEN, MIKE SALTER. TONY SILVA, DON GRIEVE and NORM TRE.MBLAY, as well as many friends in town. The profits will go to our scholarship fund which does enable us to give one boy 5500 each year. 
The next function of the Notre Dame Club of Maine will be our annual summer outing which will be held, family style as last year, at Camp Sebaik, the Holy Cross Fathers' beautiful camp at East Sebago, Me., on Saturday, Aug. 22. Further details will be sent to Maine alumni later, but meanwhile if anyone is planning a \*acation this way do look us up and plan to be at the summer outing if you can fit it into your schedule. 
It might be of interest to Notre Dame men that I have been elected to the presidency of the International Board of Advertising Gift Manufac­turers, a group that is represented by one member from each of nine countries. This group recently met at Poland Spring, Me., with Geiger Bros, as 
host, and the next meeting of the group wiU be 
at Dalkeith near Edinburgh, Scotland. —RAY GEIGER, Secy. 
Manila 
The Notre Dame Club of Manila enjoyed a rare treat from June 17-19 when FATHER JOYCE graced the Philippine shores on the last leg of his 
recent vacation in the Far East. 
It was really an occasion for the Notre Dame 

alumni o! Manila lo cheer about because within a 
span of less than three years Notre Dame has come 
halfway around the world in the persons of FR. 
HESBURGH and FR. JOYCE. For many of the 
Alumni, this was also time for their 30-Year or 
10-Year Reunion, and instead of their having to 
make the trip to the campus, Notre Dame came 
to Manila! 
During his visit, Fr. Joyce vvas able to rem­

inisce with classmate ENRIQUE BRI.\S *37 and 
v%ith friends, among whom were ANTONIO F. 
GONZALEZ '25, EDUARDO ROXAS '32, MARI-^ 
ANO DONATO '24, the VELASCO brothers ^ 
(GREGORIO and SANTIAGO '24). the GOTUACO 
family (JOHN '24, AL and PHIL '53, LARRY 
'54), the ROCES brothers (MARCOS V. '53, AL­
FREDO '54), ROBERT YAO '54, BERNARDO 
LICHAYTOO '54, DONALD DY MA '54, and 
CONRADO SANCHEZ JR. MA '54, president of 
the ND Club of Manila. 
At the alumni dinner honoring Fr. Joyce, the 

Notre Dame men, their wives, as well as a pros­
pective freshman and his parents, were given an 
impressive account of Notre Dame's growth and 
achievements in the past decade. By an inter­
esting coincidence, BILL STANLEY '54 and his wife 
had just recently come to the Philippines and gave 
tlic affair an authentic reunion flavor. ^ 
At the meeting, LARRY GOTUACO '54 \vas% 

elected president of the Club, succeeding his class­
mate, Conrado Sanchez. 
Mid-Hudson Valley 
EDWARD W. (.MOOSE) KRAUSE, director of athletics at Notre Dame, described plans for the forthcoming Athletic and Convocation Center on the campus to a gathering of alumni and friends at the Treasure Chest Restaurant, Poughkeepsie, N.Y., in April. 
Muskegon 
Over 175 ND alumni and Iriends at the cluh'sjg 

fifth annual golf stag were captivated, thrilled^ and entertained by the quips, quotes and witty exchanges of Ara and Duffy, most of whom had sv%-eltered through 90-degrec temperatures over the 18 holes of Pontaluna Country Club and quaffed barrels of liquid refreshments placed at a strategic position on the course. 
^Vhen Ara called on good ol' HUGHIE DEVORE it brought nostalgia and deep strains of sentiment for this venerated former mentor of the Irish. It is good to have a touch of ND in your home tov*-n and commiserate with FATHER DURBIN on a "lousy" eighty. (Perhaps it vvas the heat.) Wc begin to think that BILL EARLEY likes us as much as we like him, for he has been at a number of cur affairs, and on this occasion he did a fine job of squiring golfing novice FRANK DONOVAN 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
and party (mechanized, of course) around the full eighteen. 

»' 
Singular praise for the handling of the affair must be given to JIM MORSE who will be ABC'ing it for the Irish and CBS'ing it on TV for the Lions when the season gets under way. Nor can we forget the dedicated Drewr>'*s dispenser of Muskegon, STAN TYLER JR., who did much of the color for this affair along with BILL TAR­DANI, who is a financial hawk when it comes to keeping our Club and its afTairs solvent. Others dcser\'ing honorable mention arc JOHN BOESCH­ENSTEIN, who arranged to have Duffy Daugherty appear with Ara in diallcnge golf (the \'arious scores were not made public), JOE KEUSCH, GEORGE CANNO.V JR. and JAMES PRICE. 

/ ^ Tliis issue has a picture of the fearless foursome 
^ ^ prepared to tec off on the course and on one another^ It was a most cnj'oyablc day and we feel that Irish hopes arc lifted, riding high on the strength of the amiable Armenian. 
—LEO L. LIN'CK, Sec>-. 
Nashville 
A constitution was agreed upon at our last business meeting. Tliis meeting was held after a very successful gei-iogciher at the Municipal Air­port to meet and fete our new football coach. 
—CHARLES F. SPICIwV '54, Secy. 

»
9 New York GUS HARDART, 1964-65 president, chaired his first board meeting, and with nearly 100% attend­ance plans were-made for . Club activities for the balance of this year. BERNIE CONNOR and his NY group expected to hold another "ND Nite," probably at Shea Stadium during the summer. BOB FINK, Westchester president, outlined plans for the annual picnic at Blind Brook Country Club and spoke of another social affair in the fall. GEORGE WINKLER reported the Long Island Club sponsored a "gala" at the Huntington Cres­cent Club, and also reported that the Family Picnic was set for late June at a nciv location. The annual Golf Outing was held on June 4 at the Brookvillc C.C, Glen Head, Long Island, with GORDON FORESTER as chairman. The event was well attended and the usual relaxing day was enjoyed by all. The club also planned for and named chairmen for the following events through 1964: Freshman Smoker. Sept. 10, JOHN I. McNAMARA; Kickoff Meeting, Sept. 22 or 23, HARVEY FOSTER; Com­munion Breakfast, Dec. 8, GEORGE FR.AZIER; xVavy Game Trip, Oct. 31, BUD MULVEY. 
—WILLLVM F. MURPHY, Sec>-. 
North Florida 
The following officers were recently elected: AL 

^KESSING '40, president; BOB SCHELLENBERG 
W'48, vice-president; BOB ANDREW '56, secretar>­and treasurer. 
UND Night was obscr\'ed April 21 by over 60 alumni and friends who enj'oyed a most enlighten­ing message from REV. JOHN E. WALSH. CSC, vice-president of public relations and development. 
—AL KESSI.VG MO, Fres. 
Ohio Valley 
A picnic-mcctrng was planned for the last ot June. BILL HOGAN '51 was chairman. 
A com roast will be held in August. Recent graduates and students attending Notre Dame in the fall will be invited to attend. 

I REV. LOUIS J. THORNTON, C.S.C., director 
'of the Placement Bureau, and DR. EDWARD W. JERGER, acting head of the dcpt. of mechanical engineering, were visitors to Wheeling on May 12 and 13. They were guests of the Wheeling Steel Corp. at a recruiting conference held at Oglebay Park. Other colleges and universities represented were U. of Cincinnati, Illinois Inst, of Technol­ogy, Lafayette College, Michigan Technological U., Penn State U., Rensselaer Polytechnic Inst, and Virginia Polytechnic Inst. 
The following are among those from the upper Ohio Vallej- graduated from ND in June: L. P. BONENBERG£R» Wheeling, W.Va.; TOM GER­LACHER, Bridgeport, O.; BOB JOCHUM, Wheel­ing, W.Va.; JOHN RURAK, Weirton, W.Va., and ART SESSI, Weirton, W.Va. 
—BILL MITSCH '33, Secy.-Treas. 
ROCHESTER—Man of the Year Edward 

H. Carson (right), president of Tobin Pack­ing Co., is a^varded his scroll on UND Night by William X. R. X. BcU '25, chair­man of the Selection Committee, who was similarly honored a few years ago. 
Orange County 

Mr. JAMES ARMSTRONG, executive secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Assn., and several visitors from Los xVngcIcs were guests at our recent UND Night meeting at the Disneyland Hotel. 
—TOM GET2INGER, Pres. 
Panama 

Our Universal Notre Dame Night reunion was held at the residence of JOE ILXRRINGTON. The attendance this year was somewhat poor due to the fact that some gringos •were away on vaca­tion and the "Panamaniacs" were in the election campaign. By the way, our president of the Club, LORENZO ROMx\GOZr\, \%-as elected senator to our national congress. 
—ANTONIO DOMINGUEZ JR., Secy. 

Philadelphia 
The University of Notre Dame Club of Phila­delphia, after its most active spring Jn history, took a summer breather after the May meeting at the Philopatrian Club at which plans were dis­cussed for late summer and fall events, including a gala ND-Nav>- game weekend in the City of Broth­erly Love at the end of October. 
Pittsbureih 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held at the Pittsburgh Athletic Association. It was good to sec so many of our members turn out to hear our very 
amiable athletic director, "MOOSE" KRAUSE. 
''Moose** gave a detailed report on the Umvenity's 
expansion program and a pre-season rundown on 
the football team's prospects for 1964 under the 
tutelage of ARA PARSEGHIAN. 
Moose's remarks were preceded by a short talk 

by JIM COONEV, Foundation representative, on 
the Challenge II Program followed by some very 
beautiful and interesting slides of the campus. 
The evening was also the occasion for the instal­

lation of the new club officers. For the past tu-o 
years DON BEBENICK has been the driving force 
behind all of our actiWties. It w*as due to his 
organizational abilities and leadership that our ac­
tinties met with the success they did. It was 
during his term that the Christmas Dance became 
the number one event on the Club's social calendar. 
Father and Son Night for incoming freshmen from 
Pittsburgh and Western Pennsylvania area is now-
one of our most practical and talked about actiia­
ties. Don dcser\'es real credit for a job well done. 
As an organizer and public relations spokesman for 
the University he has established a blueprint to be 
followed by his successors in years to come. 
Our new president is PAUL HUD.\K. To him wc extend our best wishes and pledge our co­operation for a successful term. Assisting Paul will be PETER FRID.AY as vice-president, LEO 0*DON­NELL, Treasurer, and myself. Leo, as chairman, and JIM BEEMER as toastmastcr, played major roles in making Universal Notre Dame Night a success. 
The time is fast approaching for our annual Swim Party. Lately, the weather has been cool, but we never fail to have a day in the 90's. This year should be no di/Tcrent. 
—MICHAEL J. BOYLE, Secy. 

Rochester 
Here's copy summarizing recent Club acti\*ities since the last input in February from DAV£ SAMUELSON. 
An excellent turnout of local alumni and friends welcomed "MOOSE" KR.AUSE and the University** Challenge II Program to Rochester on March 4. JOHN CASEY '55 and DON BOOTH '49 directed this successful operation. 
We observed Universal Notre Dame Night later on May 12. Chairman BILL OTOOLE '39 pro­vided excellent press and TV coverage for speaker HUGH DEVORE. Master of Ceremonies JERRY* FLYNN '40 performed his usual fine job. Our Notre Dame Slan-of-thc-Year Award WM presented to ED CARSON '41 in recognition of hts contribu­tions to community. Church and Notre Dame. 
The new slate of officers chosen at the Aprit business meeting was announced. REG MORRISON '30, president; BILL REEVES '33, vice-president;: ROY HANNA '52, treasurer; and GENE YUR­GE.\LrnS *57, secretary, promise to provide ca­pable leadership for the Club again this year.. 
The April business meeting brought to a close the ID-Year Scholarship Program initiated by the-club. Our deepest appreciation to CHARLIE. 0*BR1EN '50 for his over-all direction of the-program. 
Summer events Included the Annual Family-Picnic on July 18 at Ellison Park. 
—GENE YURGEALITIS '57, Secy. 

PANAMA—Universal ND gathering in Panama City last spring included (standing, L*r.) Eduardo Domingucz, Carlos Chambonnet, Jolin Pettingi], Aristides Fcmaadc^ l^o Kriza, Charlie Himmicr, Antonio Domingucz Jr., Joe Harrington; (seated) Mcs. Cham­bonnet, Mrs. Pettingil, Mrs. Hummer, Mrs. Fernandez, Mis. Kriza, Mrs. Harrington. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 39* 
Rome 
THE NOTRE DAME HOSPITALITY CENTER 
WELCOMES ALL COMERS AT LARGO BRAN­
CACCIO 82, TEL. 730.002. OPEX ALL BAY 
EVERY D.AY. 
The Notre Dame .-Mumni "Crusader Holy Land 
Pilgrimage" touched down here for two days. Good 
to sec FR. LEO R. W.\RD CSC renewing his 
youth as well as many alumni from the three 
previous pilgrimages. We were able to arrange 
for Fr. Ward to offer Mass in St. Peter's for 
the group. 
Our Prc\y GEORGE GLEASON '36, residing 
in Naples, has a new hosting helper, Lt. (jg) 
ANDREW J. L.\WLOR USX '61, now stationed 
there. 
ND students attending the Rome program of 
Loyola Univer^itv of Chicago are: DENNIS FARM­
ER, ERNEST E.ATON III, BILL SL.ATTERY, BOB 
KURAS, PETE JOST, and PETE CROWLEY. 
St. Mary's .-Mumnae studying in Florence at the 
Pius XII Institute of Fine Arts are Marilyn Hakiz 
and Selma Michaels, both '63. 
Earlybird %-isitors: FRANK X. CULL '08, be­
coming, we hope, an annual caller. TOM HUGHES 
'11 here to spend a month with us. Then for the 
second time, one of St. Mar>-'s College's early 
s^>•eethearts, Mrs. MICHAEL .McNARNEY '09, back 
to see if the second session of the Ecumenical 
Council did anything "about dmrdi music in 
Wabash," her home town! 
Lineal guest: Miss Kathleen Gunicharri, student 
at Marymount, Rome, entering St. Mary's, ND, 
in fall, is granddaughter of FRANK LLOYD, ND 
comptroller, circa '35, daughter of VINCENT 
GURUCRARRI, circa '40 and of Kathleen Lloyd-
Gurucharri, SMC '40, sister of Vincent Gurudiarri 
Jr. '68. 
From the Guest Book: Lt. JOE FERRONE '38, USN medical officer; son of ED SULLIV.4N '24; sister of GEORGE S.ASKO '33; TOM FARRELL '38; Bettv Ann Tucker SNtC '69 and Diane '71; FRED RALPH MS '63, JIM WEBER '63, JACK DEE '48; Dr. Bulfer, father of TI.M BULFER '62 and brother of FR. GILBERT BULFER OSB MA '35; parents of JOHN KROHA '59 and BOB KRO­HA '62; J. O'KEEFE '44, FR. JOHN CROTTY Ph.D. '50 US.-kF, BOB MARHOEFER '62, COR­NELIUS ALT '23, D.WE HICKEY '27; sister of AL '36 and R. GLONDEMAUN '31; cousin of RAY '28 and .MARTIN DONL.\N '33; R. HEIN­ZEN '44, MALCOLM RAIMOXDO '62, CHARLES HICK.MAN JR. '58, BUD KOLP JR. '38 and wife Geraldine SMC '40 (sister of FR. ZL\K CSC); ED MCLAUGHLIN '27, JOHN HIGGE.VS '22, WALTER COVINGTON '30, FR. PATRICK MA­LONE Y CSC '50, NORM BARRY '43, Law '48, and TOM HALLIG.4N '44. 
—VINCE McALOON '34, Secy. 
Saginaw Valley 

The Saginaw Valley ND Club held tlie annual Summer Golf Picnic on Saturday, Aug. 8, 1954, with golf at the White Birdi Hills Golf Course, followed by a picnic at the cottage of DR. HARRY McGEE on Killamey Beach. While the guys were golfing, the dolls were invited to palaver at the cottage in an informal hen party. Food and refreshments were furnished. BILL HENDRICKS organized the Saginaw crowd, and TOM CARROLL rounded 'em up in Bay City, Mich. 
St. Joseph Valley 

The Universal Xolre Dame Night tribute to hon­orary member ED HEALEY (on his induction into the Pro Football Hall of Fame) was followed by a full-fledged testimonial to the Dartmouth Mauler at the Indiana Club, attended by many Valley Club friends. Chicago's GEORGE CONNOR M8 was toastmaster for a group of Ed's friends from his playing days with the Chicago Bears, including sports WTiter George Strickler and Hall of Fame coaches George Halas and Jimmy Conzclman. The Irish delegation included "MOOSE" KRAUSE and HUGH DEVORE 'SI from the campus as well as CHUCK S^VEENEY '38, an official of the Na­tional Football League. Honorarv* member TOM HICKEY SR. was honorary chairman. 
Club President DICK CLE.\RY worked out an unusual deal with A&P in the South Bend area, selling a block of Gld-Timers Game tickets to the supermarket for use as premiums to customers, thereby sivelling the take for the benefit of tlic Valley Club Scholarship Fund. 
Immediately following the annual ND-Purdue golf match on the Burke Golf Course was the annual St. Joe Valley Club Golf Outing, with cocktails and dinner, under the chairmanship of ED MC­CARTHY. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—Retiring Prc»dcnt Joe Dillon (center) congratulates two former athletes honored on Universal Notre Dame Night in South Bend last spring. Dick Rosenthal (left), former ND basketball star, was named Man of the Year for ciWc contributions as a bank president and philanthropic volunteer, while £d Healey, former Dartmouth All-American footballer, received a plaque conferring honorar>* Club membership for hk support over the years. (So. Bend Trib. photo) 
St. Louis 
As is usually the case, St. Louis Alumni Club activity slows in pace to a snail's crawl through the duration of the St. Louis heat. 
Club President CON T. LANE *57, Sccrctarv-Trcasurer D. JERRY .McGL\*N*N '60. and Vice-Presidents JOH.\ N. CRAUXEY '57, JOHN PHE­L.-VN '56 and MARK M.-\LEY '57 have met with the board of directors and set up a plan of attack for tliis year's program. 
The first order of business w*as the completion of a new project, held at the home of director GENE FEHLIG '43, welcoming back to St. Louis the recently graduated senior class. The party was a great success, the purpose of which was to create a greater interest of the new graduates in our .\Iumni Club program. 
Our Annual Sports Night was scheduled for August. Plans are being unfolded at this writing and the affair promises to be the great attraction that it has been in the past. 
Personal notes include the recent wedding of our President CON T. LrVNE '57 to Karen Kear­ney on June 27 in Evanston, 111. 
Our recently elected director, G. M.\RRIN LEWIS '60, has moved to Waterloo, la., with his investment firm of G. H. Walker and Co. We wish him well in his endeavors there. 
Congratulations to JOSEPH B. McGLYNN JR. '55 and his wife Helen on the recent arrival of their daughter Maureen Ann. 
It is urged that anyone having notes of general interest, in regard to themselves or other alumni, please forward them to the undersigned c/o First National Bank in St. Louis, oil Locust Street; St. Louis, Missouri G3166. 
—D. JERRY McGLYNN '60, Secy-Trcas. 

Salina 
Disappointment has turned into success for Sister Isabellc Marie Finn, economics and business ad­ministration department chairman at Marymount College, Salina, Kan. 
Her attempts last fall to have James Q. du Pont, of de Nemours and Company, Wilmington, Del., speak at the college's October Economics Workshop were unsuccessful. However, tlirough a personal letter from Salinan ALBERT J. SCHWARTZ, Lee Hardware Company president, who is a distant relative of du Pont, Sister Isabelle Marie was able to secure du Font's services as featured speaker for the state convention of the college business club. Phi Beta Lambda. The meeting was held recently at Kansas State Teachers College in Emporia, Kan. 
Mr. and Mrs. Schwartz attended the Emporia banquet, and took du Pont on to Kansas City for his return flight to Wilmington. The du Pont and Schwartz ancestors came from Johnstown, Pa. The Gcis and NORB SKELLEY families of Salina arc also related to the du Fonts, and James du Pont visited Salina a number of years ago. 
San Antonio 
Universal Notre Dame Night was ob5er\'cd at the Mengcr Hotel in San Antonio April 16. A cocktail / party and dinner preceded the main address by BRO. STANLEY CULOTT, principal of Holy Cross High School. Tlie inspiring talk concentrated on the im­portance of education and how Notre Dame was meeting this enormous challenge. After the address a general discussion by all club members ensued. In addition to those in permanent residence, we were happy to have armed services personnel from the various Installations around San Antonio includ­ing CAFT. DEL.\NY, PFC JAMES FFFZP.ATRICK, Lt. TOM WHAL.\ND, and FR. D.AVIS. 
On June 13, a barbecue was held beside the Medina River, where the Notre Dame Club members were the guests of Judy and DON HICKS. The party was held on the Mayan Dude Ranch in Ban­dera, Texas. Swimming, horseback riding, a frontier ^ show and the facilities of "Mayan City" were en-% Joyed by all attending the all-day outing. The students returning home from school were the honorecs. 
Anyone in the ser\'icc who is stationed at one of San Antonio's numerous Army or Air Force bases, cither on temporary or permanent duty, is encour­aged to contact CHILTON MAVERICK at CA 3-II67 if participation in club activities is desired. 
—CHILTON MAVERICK, Secy. 

San Diego 
We are sorr>" that all members could not make UXD Night 196i. The setting was tlic lovely Cor­onet room of the Hotel Del Coronado. The dinner M was Prime Ribs done to a turn and most attrac­tively ser\ed. JIM ARMSTRONG gave a very interesting talk. He has seen the ups and downs and ups of the Notre Dame family since 1925. He and his lovely wife have raised five sons and are a pair of the most clieerful people you would ever want to meet. 
Speaking for all the new officers, I would like to invite all those who arc new in the area or have not been active in the club in the recent past to join your Club. Remember, the Club exists to serve you, the alumni. Its aim is to continue that bond of spirit and fellowship among the alumni that exists back on the campus. The club hopes to achieve this through a varied program of social activities for you. 
Along with return of dues, we solicited confiden­

40 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
tial suggestions regarding what members want their Club to do this year in the way of activities. 

• To help kick off the new club year, the Notre Dame Club of San Diego held a free (to Notre Dame men only) beer party on Friday, June 5, 19G+. This was a stag, gct-acquaintcd party. The Club was able to obtain (for clcaning-up charges only) the new Fun Room of "The Club House" cocktail bar. Sufficient beer and chips were purchased at cost with funds from the Club treasury to keep the party rolling. This was in a closed private room immediately to the rear of the Piano Bar where St. Augustine High graduate Jo Fos plays the piano nightly, Hb music was "piped in," the beer was "piped" from our own private tap, and mcm­
^ bcrs were "piped" home about midnight. 
• L. DON LOPKER, Prcs. 
Terre Haute 
The spring season of the Terre Haute Club wound up in a blaze of glory with a Challenge II Night, a UXD Night whose handsome assemblage wound up on the rotogra^iirc pages of the Star-Tribune and presentation of the annual Rockne award for academic, civic and athletic excellence to Jim McCarthy, an Archbishop Schulte High senior who will matriculate at ND this fall. 
Toledo 

V At the local celebration of Universal Notre Dame night, held last Tuesday at the Toledo Club, JOHN HURLEY was named the initial recipient of the CIub*s *'Man of the Year" award. Mr. Hurley has been actix'c in local alumni functions for several years and ser\'cs as his Class' ('25) secretary. His daughter, by the way, is a 1958 graduate of St. Mar>''s and Iiis son-in-law is a 1957 ND graduate. This new award will be given on an annual basis by the club. 
New 1964-65 officers inaugurated at UND Night were: BILL THEES '57, president; THOMAS QUINN '56, vice-president; JOHN HARRON '59, secretary; and JOSEPH S.AN'TOS '57, treasurer. 
As retiring president, J.AMES SILK joins the new board of trustees. Others newlv elected were GEORGE KORHUMEL and BOB SCHRAMM. 

Speaker for this year's program was Prof. WAL­TER LiVNGFORD of the ND modern language • dcpt., who spoke on his experiences and insights as director of the first Peace Corps unit sent to South America. Joe Santos, as chairman of this year's event, arranged Prof. Langford's appearance. Early events of the 1964-65 season will include distribution of a new director^-, a golf outing and stag luncheon late in xXugust and a drawing in September for a trip to the Air Force Academy game. 
—TOM QUINN, Retiring Secy. 
Triple Cities 
Tlic University of Notre Dame Alumni Club of the Triple Cities was honored by the presence of Athletic Director EDWARD "MOOSE" KIUUSE 

^an d Foundation Assistant Director DONALD ROSS 
9 at our observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. The affair was held April 9 at the Sheraton Inn, Binghamton, and was attended by 50 alumni and friends. 
The Club's first Notre Dame Man of the Year Award was presented to Club Vice-President THOMAS BENEDICT '49. In addition to his duties 
TERRE HAUTE—Club President Jim Boyer (right) presents the annual Club A\\*ard to senior James McCarthy at Schulte Catholic High School. Named outstanding boy in sportsmanship, citizenship and schol­arship, he will enroll at ND this fall. 
as rice-president Tom has scr\'ed the University well OS area chairman for Challenge I and Chal­lenge II. 
Congratulations arc in order for Club President JOE GALLOWAY '51, senior production engineer, for the Photo-Rcpro Division of General Aniline & Film Corp. "How P. M. Can Cut Lift Truck Downtime and Repair Costs," which appeared in the February-, 19&1, issue of Factory Magazine, was an article developed from an a%\-ard-winning paper authored by Joe. 
Officers for the coming vear will be as follows: President JOSEPH P. GALLOWAY '51, Vice-Presi­dent THO.M.VS MUSaXTELLO ^9, Secretary JOHN 
J. O'ROURKE '49, and Treasurer JAMES P. 
CONNERTON '49. —JOHN J. O'ROURKE '49, Secy. 
Tucson 
In reply to your recent request, the ofHccrs of the Notre Dome Club of Tucson arc: President TIM­OTHY KING '37, Vice-president DR. DONALD 
D. EUING '49, Secrctar.- JAMES P. KEOUGH '35, and Treasurer DONALD T. DIETZ '61. 
—JAMES P. KEOUGH '33, Secy. 
Utah 
HARRY A. STUHLDREHER '25, spark plug for football's Four Horsemen and now asst. to the vice-president of US Steel, spent two days in Salt Lake City in April at a scries of events capped by his being guest of Iionor and principal speaker at a Universal Notre Dame Night meeting of the ND Club of Utah under the chairmanship of Pres. DON J. RONEY. Harry also met alumni while speaking at a luncheon of the Salt Lake Advertising Club and at a Sports Night Banquet of the Sacred Heart Men's Club. 

Washington, D.C. 
"Extending the Tradition of Great Teaching" in Washington, under the UND Night chairmaiuhip of Brig. Gen. JOHN S. GLEASON, meant talks by Laetare Kfedalist GEN. ALFRED M. GRUEN­THER and ND Library Assn. Director REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL CSC, as well as merit awards to the presidents of five area universities (Catholic U., Georgetown, American, George Wash­ington and the ND Man of the Year au'ard to former Club Pres. JOHN A. McGRATH of Ashton, Md., a prominent D.C. attorney and a leader in continuing education. It is fitting that Chairman Gleason, chief of the Veterans Administration, re­turned to the campus shortly after the event to receive an honorary doctorate from Alma Mater. 
Western Washington 
Fifty-four members, wives and guests of the Notre Dame club of Western Washington attended the Universal Notre Dame Night on April 6, 1964, at the Windjammer, Seattle. REV. GLENN BOAR­MAN CSC, director of development and professor of philosophy, Portland University, was the guest speaker. 
The Notre Dame Man of the Year Award was given to REV. JAMES J. COWGILL SJ '37, chair­man of the department of physics at Seattle Uni­versity. 
New officers for 1964-66 were announced as; Presi­dent, AL TOTH '49; Vice-President, TOM MAY '33; Secretary, MILLARD B.ATTLES '33, '36; Treasurer, OLLIE FLOR '60. New Directors arc: Seattle, OLUE FLOR '60, BUD D.4V1SCOURT '34, DON ZECH '34; Tacoma, AUGUST VON BOECKLIN '34; and Western Washington, ED BROWT< '24. 
Events for 1964 include a Poker-Smoker May 26 at the Washington Athletic Club under Chairman BOB STEWART '52; a Summer Picnic in July at the Mercer Island home of Chairman GEORGE STARBUCK '34; the .'\nnual Raffle and Smoker, Chairman JIM CROTLY '60; a Football Trip to So. Cal., Chairman TED CUMMINGS '44; ND Communion Breakfast, Chairman RAY O'LEARY; a Mardi-Gras Partv, Chairman DENNIS RYAN "59; and UND Night '65, Chairman BOB MORTENSEN. 
— MILLARD B.\TTLES, Secy. 

Youngstown 
The Youngstown-^Var^en ND alumni held their Universal Notre Dame Night on April 15 at the Youngstown Country Club. Eighty (80) people were vcr^* receptive to a discussion of the Catholic Church's history and ability in the teaching arts especially as applied to today's crises in education. The speaker, FR. ROBERT FANNON, received his Master of Arts in Education from Notre Dame. He is in charge of Central Catholic High School in Canton, Ohio. 
Three (3) Notre Dame football scholarship hope­fuls and their parents were in attendance as well as our own "OLLIE" HUNTER and his wife. PAUL SZYMANSKI was event chairman and CHARLES McCRUDDEN is the Club's president. 
—CHARLES B. CUSHWA, '56, '61, Secy. 

YOUNGSTOWN — Members and wives turned out en masse on Universal Notre Dame Night at the Yom^stown ConntTy Onh. 
'9 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 19$4 
Mbs L^'nne Ann Cenkush and Ens. RICHARD Mr. and Mrs. DONALD L. CRIQUI '62, a son, 
W. McMANTJS '63, South Bend, Ind., May 30. June 18. g 
Miss Sharon Lee Quigley and JAMES M. TUR-Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD J. GORSKI '63, a son, " LEY '63, Niles, Midi., June 6. 
June 4. 
Mbs Sandra May Ijngel and RANDOLPH 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT C. KOCHES '63, a son, 

JOHN WOLF '63, South Bend, Ind., June 13. 
Jeffrey Robert, April 22. 
Classes 
Mbs Lois Nag>- and LOUIS W. BREN'NER '64, 

Notre Dame, Ind., June 8. Mbs Kathryn Michaels and DAVID WLLIAM HUDGEL '64, South Bend, Ind., June 13. DEATHS ENGAGEMENTS .Mbs Judith Owen -Miller and LAWRENCE 
Miss Ann G. Dougherty and ALDEN JOHN CUSICK JR. '52. Miss Donna Jean Gleason and FRANK HEN­NESSEY '57. Miss Ruth Ann Slaughter and THONUS J. 
HELLRUNG '59. Miss Joan Aniolini and LUCID A. NOTO '59. Miss Mar>- Morca and ANTHONY P. BOR­
RELLO 'GO. Miss Maureen Helen Wolfe and ROBERT C. FINDLAY '60. Miss St. Julicn Northrop and KE\TN JAMES BUTLER '61. Miss Jeanne Marie Glennon and EDWARD GEORGE Mc.«.'ANEY H '61. Mbs JoAnn McGrogan and ROBERT A. POLI­CASTRO '62. -Miss "Miclie" .Monroe and JOH.N RAYMOND RAEDY '62. Miss Judith M. Opcalander and FREDERICK J. WAGNER '62. Miss Shirley Jean Rollinson and USAR Lt. BRUCE AGAR WEISSE '62. Mbs Donna Marie McGlvnn and PHILIP HEN­RY YAWilAN III '62. Miss Margaret Jean Hess and DANIEL JOSEPH FENNELL '63. Miss Dona Ann Duncan and THO.NfAS BRUCK HOTOPP '63. Mbs Susan Elizabeth Miles and GERARD ALOYSIUS NEUiUNN JR. '63. Miss Madeline Ann Baruch and RAYMOND WILLUM STARMANN JR. '63. Miss Rosemary Margaret Oliv-a and \MLLIAM MARQUIS ANDERSON '64. Mbs Marilyn Sue McLane and ROBERT MICHAEL BACA '64. Miss Mary Ann Coudi and JOHN RICHARD BRUNO '64. Miss Maureen R. Burke and GEORGE P. KOCH •64. Mbs Carolva L. Walker and RONALD A. De-LAERE '64. Mbs Katharine Ames and JAMES WALTER 
DUNCAN i n '64. Mbs Cecilia Chow and ROBERT S. LEE '64. ­Miss Mary Einhom and GERARD PAUL HETZ . 
'64. Mbs Mary Diane Berry and CLARENCE H. LOEBACH JR. '64. Mbs Betty Anne Jodlbauer and FRANK J. PAPP JR. '64. Mbs Martha Washington McCann and MARTIN JOSEPH SHANNON JR. '64. 
MARRIAGES 

Mbs Elizabeth Jane Brenner and J. PATTER­SON DREW '53, Washington, D.C., April 11. Mbs Zofia I. Jeoziwiak and EUGENE J. SCHMrr '55, Oklahoma City, Okla., April 11. Mbs Stephanie Manning and PETER BRIAN MARONEY '56, New York, N.Y., May 2. Miss Doreen Kay Sarkisian and JOEL A. MESE­CAR '56, South Bend, Ind., June 13. Miss Roxanna Waterman True and ALFRED STEPHEN ALLEN '58, New York, N.Y. Miss Linda Mary Attanasio and JAMES MI­CHAEL BEISTY '58, Flushing, N.Y., June 6. Miss Dolores Annette Daniels and VICTOR H. MARAGNI '59, Jersey Cit>-, N.J., May 30. 
Mbs Kathleen Helen Fbhell and WILLIAM HENRY McCULLOUGH JR. '59, Rye, N.Y., May 9. 
Mbs Anne Vomsc Egan and \MLLIAM LEE HERGENROTHER '60, South Bend, Ind., AprilW. Mbs Annie Cloyette Howell and Lt. ROBERT 
V. JOHNSON JR. '60, Ft. Ruckcr, Ala., May 18. Miss Nancy Jeanne Ltucm and GREGORY BYRNE BYNAN II '61, Mil»-aukec, Wb., June 27. Mbs S. Nano- Riggs and PAUL T. GORSKI '61, South Bend, Ind., April II. Mbs Joan Hennessy and DAWD C. H'OCHNER *6I, Tecumseh, Ontario, June 13. 
Ktiss Christine Sherman and Lt. RICHARD LEE SAUER '62, Landstuhl, Germany, 1964. 
D.WaO KAVANAGH JR. '64, Notre Dame, Ind., June 8. Miss Carol Ann Dickens and JOSEPH P. MAN­ZELLI '64, Notre Dame, Ind.. June 5. Miss Marilyn Bender and RAUL SfARTINEZ '64, Rio Picdras, Puerto Rico, March 25. Miss Judith Ann Famham and Lt. CARL A. ^L4SSARINI '64, Notre Dame, Ind., June 8. Miss Sandra Lynn Schock and RICHARD BRUCE PANTHER '64, South Bend, Ind., February S. Mbs Mary Virginia Lcyes and MICHAEL PATRICK TOAL '61, Notre Dame, Ind., June 13. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE S. GEISSLER '41, a son. April 29. Mr. and Mrs. JERO.ME P. HENDEL '47, a son, Richard Jerome, May 31. Mr. and Mrs. ELMER J. M.4TTHEWS '47 a daughter. Sheila Marie, April 27. Mr. and .Mrs. JOSEPH J. ORSI JR. '49, a son, Joseph Michael, May 20. Mr. and Mrs. ALFRED C. DeCRtVNE JR. '53, a daughter, Jennifer Ann, May 27. Mr. and .Mrs. ROBERT L. GERVAIS '55, a daughter, Anne Alarie, May 3. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES M. MEEHAN '57, a daughter, April 24. Mr. and Mrs. DAVID B. MURPHY '57, a daughter, Elizabeth Jean. May 3. -Mr. and .Mrs. JA.MES G. GRIFFIN '59, a daughter, Lisa Anne, Oct. 5, 19G3. Mr. and Mrs. JERRY D. O'BRIEN '59, a son, Mark Bernard, Jan. 8, Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL R. O'CONNOR JR. '59, a daughter, Mary Brenna, Mav 27. Dr. and Mrs. NORMAN A. ODYNIEC '59, a daughter, Lba Ann, June 22. Mr. and Mrs. GARY LEE VONDRAN '59, a son, Gar>* Lee, Jr., June 12. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER J. EASTERLY '60, a daughter, Elizabeth Anne, June 13. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD P. FARLEY '61, a daughter, Dorothy Ellen, April 3. 
REV. HENRY BOLGER CSC '24, who died in May after many years as head of the physics dept., was posthumously awarded an honorary doctorate in June by the president of St Procopius College, Dlinois. 
FRANCIS B. HUGHES '03 of Harrington Park» 

N.J., passed au*ay in 1963 according to word re* 
ccntly received at the Alumni Office from his 
u-jdow-. 
FLOYD O. JELLISON *13, veteran South Bend, 

Ind., attorney died April 22. He held a dis-M 
tinguished record of Army combat scrxice in the " 
Spanish-American ^Var and •\V\VI. He was a 32nd 
Degree Jfason, active in ciWc, fraternal and 
veteran organizations. Sur\'ivors include his \vffe, 
daughter and two sisters. 
WILLIAM F. FOX JR. *20, sports editor of the 

Indianapolis Nc%*s since 1939 and a sports writer 
for the News since 1921 died May 14 in his home 
after a long illness. Bill, who coined the phrase 
"Hoosicr H>'stcria," received a lifetime official's 
card as "the one who has contributed more than 
any other one person to the growth of Indiana 
high school basketball" and in 1962 received the 
Joe Boland Award for "outstanding contribution 
to youth in Indiana." The a\vard w-as given in — 
mcmorj' of the late South Bend broadcaster — a ^ 
dose friend of his. He is survived by his wife, 
daughter, and three sons including" AKchael '55. 
REV. HENRY BOLGER CSC '24, former head 

of the department of physics at Notre Dame, died 
May 4 in the Student Infirmary on campus. St. 
Procopius College of Lisle, III., conferred, post­
humously, the degree of Doctor of Science on 
Fr. Bolger. He ser\*ed from 1937 until retirement 
last Sept. as head of the physics dept. and is 
credited with the initiation of a program of grad­
uate studies which led to the master's degree and 
later the doctorate. Under him the faculty grew 
from 11 members to 22. Survivors include tu*o 
sisters and a brother, Francis X. *25. 
ROBERT M. RINK SR. '24 pres. of the Goshen 

Mfg. Co., Goshen, Ind., suffered a heart attack 
in his home and died on May 21. He established 
a scholarship fund at Notre Dame and was ac-^ 
tivc in many organizations and clubs. He is sur-~ 
vived by his \rife and a sister. 
JOHN J. ROURKE '24 of Providence, R. L, 
died April 23 according to word recei\*ed from 
Rev. C. L. Dorcmus CSC. 
EDWARD F. CUDDIHY '25 died suddenly of a 
heart attack on June 5 during the lunch hour 
while returning to his office in VTtlmcttCj 111. He 
is survived by his wife, three sons including Ed­
ward Jr. *58 and a seven-year-old, and a brother 
J. Gerald '23 
GEORGE T. KOCH '25, South Bend "Catho­
lic Man of the Year" in 1963, died May 11. A 
schoolteacher for more than 32 years, he ser\-cd 
on the South Bend Park Board for se\*eral years 
and w*as in demand as a speaker for church and ^ 
civic functions, having received a toastmaster's V 
trophy in 1955 and 1962. Surwvors include his 
wife, two daughters and two sons including Robert 
'61, 
MERT C. CULLINAN '27 of Laredo, Tex., died ifay 23 according to word received from St. Mary's College. Sun.ivors include his wife, a daughter and a son, Michael P. '55. 
CMDR. E^VDARD F. CUNNINGHAM '28, Charleston, S.C, died November 13, 1963, at his home. He was with the Real Estate Division of the Bureau of Yards and Docks, Sixth Naral District. A veteran of WWII, he participated in several major campaigns in the Pacific 7*heater and was active with the USNR at the time of his death. His trife and a daughter survive him. 
LORENZO L. BRENNEL '29 of Zanesinlle. Ohio, ^ died February 22, 1962 according to word just received at the Alumni office from his mother. 
LAWRENCE N. DeLEERS '29 of Marinette, Wis., died unexpectedly May 15 in his home. For a number of years he ^%•as a salesman for DcPcre Liquor Co. Survivors include his wife, son, daughter, brother and four sisters. 
REV. CHARLES LEE *31. formerly CSC, died June 6 in Highlands, N.Y. At the time of his death he was a secular priest with the New York Archdiocese. 
REV. BERNARD BLATT '31, of Qeveland, O., died &(ay 25. At the time of his death he was pastor of Immaculate Conception Parish in Cleve­land. He was the brother of George *42 and the late Edgar '30 and a nephew of Rev. Edgar Misch CSC '10. _ 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
ROCCO R. CACCIATORE '34, formerly of Yonkers, N.Y., died May 7, 1951, according to

• word recently received in the Alumni Office. His widow is living in Stockton, Calif. 
CHARLES A. JAHR '34, of Elkhorn, Wis., died June 16 from a fall down the basement stairs. In February he had purchased a hotel, bar and dining room business. His wife died.in February-, 1963. 
FRANK E. RADKE '34, of Waukegan, III., died December 21, 1963. His survivors include a son, James E. '6Q, 
BERNARD E. MEGIN '37, Concord (Mass.) High School coach, died suddenly in March. No other details are known. ALFRED A. SNIADOWSKI '37, Wilmington, 

^ ^^|-» Prosecutor and first full-time assistant city 
9 solicitor, died of cancer June 3 in the Wilmington 
Hospital, where he had been a patient since March 
18. He was admitted to the Delaware Bar in November, 1962. He was active in many groups including the ND Club of Wilmington. A bache­lor, he is sur\-ived by three brothers, three sisters and his stepmother. 
HOWARD KERR '40 was found dead of natural causes in his apartment at San Mateo, Calif., on April 9. He had been working in the construction business in the San Mateo area. 
STEPHEN R. JUZWIK '42. physical education instructor at Quiglcy Seminary North, near Chica­go, died of a heart attack June 5 in Alcxian Brothers Hospital. While at ND he set many 

A football records which have not yet been broken. He is 5ur\-ivcd by his wife and three children. 
JOHN F. TRACEY M3, of Belle Harbor, L.L, N.Y., died April 20. Sur\'ivors include two brothers, Jame H. '42 and Edward J. '40. 
EUGENE M. CARNEY *44 died May 29, 1963 in El Paso, Texas according to word recently re­ceived from his parents. 
STANLEY G. STONE '48, formerly of La Crcscenta, died January-8 at Scpulveda Veterans* Hospital, Calif,, according to word received from his wife. 
T. PATRICK FINAN '49 of Grosse Polnte Park, Mich., died of cancer January 14 in Ford Hospi­tal. He is sur\'ived by his wife and seven children. 
JOSEPH M. CATTALANI '50, Rochester, N.Y., territorial manager for the Westinghouse appliance sales division, died of a heart attack April 20 in Northside Hospital. He Is survived by his wife, 

• two daughters, four sons, his mother, a sister and a brother. MARTIN L. CRYSTAL '61 of Wood River, Illinois, was killed in an auto accident in May. Survivors include his parents. WILLIAM T. POTTER Gr '61 '62, Manchester, New Hampshire, was killed in an auto accident De­cember 12. He is sur\'ivcd by his wife. LOUIS J. POLALVN, age 65, maintenance em­ployee at Notre Dame for 34 years, died June 16 in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend after an ill­ness of two months. He is sur\*ivcd by his ^vlfe, two daughters and two sons including Louis J. Jr. '52. 
PATRICK SINGLETON, age 55, superintendent 

of grounds at the ND Stadium for 35 years, died ^ May 30 in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend after ^ an illness of four weeks. 
Sympathy 
JOHN U. RILEY '17, on the death of his wife, May 14. FRED G. MANCUSO '24, on the death of his father, June 9. FRANK A. REESE *25, on the death of his wife, April 30. JOHN L. SHO^VEL '25, on the death of his father. May 27. JOHN J. DOYLE '28, on the death of his wife in May. RAY J. SPAHR '30, on the death of his father, June 4. NORMAN J. FREDERICKS '35, on the death of his father, June 21. KURT G. SIMON '35, on the death of his father. May 12. CHESTER J. SMITH '35, on the death of his 
wife, itay 14. CARL J. SENGER '37, on the death of his wife. JOHN C. ULLMANN '37, on the death of his 
yvile, March 29. THOMAS T . ZIEGLER '39, on the death of his mother in April. LESTER D. FAHEY '42, on ihc death of his mother, June 15. 
C. A. "NEIL'* FOWLER '47, on the death of his father in May. 
AMBROSE C. "BUZZ" MORAN '48, on the death of his wiie, April 21. JOSEPH A. GERARDI '50, on the death of his father, April 18. RICHARD F. '50 and GERALD S. KLEE '52, on the death of their father. HUGH E. MULLIGAN JR. '50, on the death of his mother, June 13. LOUIS J. POLMAN JR. '52, on the death of his father, June 16. EARL J. JR. '52 and JOHN J. REDDEN '54, on the death of their father, .April 26. Capt. THOMxVS BLUBAUGH '56, on the death of his wife. THOMAS O. JAMES '56, on the death of his father, Aug. 7, 1963. THOMAS J. GREENE '60, on the death of his mother. PAUL S. DOR>\'EILER '61, on the death of his father In ^^ay. 
50-YEAR CLUB 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
D/VNIEL J. O'CONNOR '05, CLAUDE SORG '10, FRED L. STEERS '11, FRED MEIFELD '12, JAMES W. O'HARA '13. 
Welcome aboard to the Class ol 'H, from whom Secretary WALTER CLEMENTS obtained such an outstanding Golden Jubilee Reunion attendance in June. Their ^-igor was typified by the 35-hole golf tourney performance of USMC Lt. Gen. FRANCIS P. "OtESAR" MULCAHY, who played in the rain after breezing in by helicopter from Glenview Naval Air Station on the last leg of a 
FRANK X CULL '08 From Cleveland, Odyssey of an Honoree 
This year the Cleveland ND Club hon­ored as Man of the Year one of its own organizers, a man who calls himself a "work dodger" although he is going strong after several successful careers in such fields as law, government and journalism. 
A native of Miamisburg, Ohio, Frank Cull entered Notre Dame in 1905, the first year of Fr. John W. Ca\'anaugh's presi­dency, and finished with top grades after three years in spite of such extracurriculars as hashing, coaching freshman debating, and editing the Scholastic and Dome. After a year in Fr. Cavanaugh's office he went 

trip from Coronado, Calif. The California dele> gation, promising to break all reconls, lacked JAMES J. MILLETT of Long Beach at the last minute. Jim was stricken with a gastric disorder resembling intestinal flu and had to leave the South Shore on the ivay down from Chicago, missing the weekend entirely. To him, for whom we un­derstand this would have been the first visit in half a century, goes the "Tough Luck Award" for 196t. Wt h all the Golden Boys, of course, he has a standing invitation for an annual visit in June hereafter — even be>*ond the Diamond Jubi­lee in 1989. 
To Colonel Clements we'll Iea%'c an account of 

the Scmicentenarian Symposium over which he 
presided as toastmaster on June 12, which in­
cluded such emeriti as DAN O'CONNOR, 
CLAUDE SORG, FRED STEERS, JIM O'HARA 
and FRED MEIFELD. 
A retraction — or at least an apology — is in order for FRANK "SHAG" SHAUGHNESSY '06, whom we identified correctly on page 43 and incorrectly on page 37 of the last issue. The man pictured with Coach Farseghian at New York's Challenge II Night is not the baseball colossus now-living in Montreal — but Harry Grayson of_NEA Newsfeaturcs, tr>'ing to get an interview. Shag is a larger man, but both gentlemen have the craggy Spencer Tracy kind of good looks that make the mistake understandable. 
It's the jubilee season, so special tributes are extended to two Holy Cross priests, members of the Class of '10, who arc celebrating the 50th anniversary of ordination — FRS. PETER E. HEBERT and EDG.AR J. -MISCH CSC. Fr. Misch has taught history and the social sciences at Fort-land and St. Edward's Universities as well as Notre Dame, served as a pastor and was chaplal i 
to Cleveland via Cedar Point and tried night law school while working as a police reporter for the Cleveland papers, ham­pered by too much nocturnal activity on the part of local criminals. 
Going to Washington, D.C., as secretary to Congressman (later Senator) Bulkley, Mr. Cull attended night law school at Georgetown U. and made an "occasional fast buck writing dreadful movie scripts" before passing the Ohio Bar in 1913 and joining the senator's law firm, now called Hauxhurst, Sharp, Ctill & Kellogg, where he remains as senior partner with a trial staff of ten. He is a fellow of the Ameri­can College of Trial Lawyers, served two terms as vice-president of the International -•\ssn. of Insurance Counsel, and remains a member of the Cleveland, Ohio State and ."American Bar Assns. 
A first lieutenant of field artillery in 

W.W. I, he was appointed by Pres. Roose­velt as a "dollar-a-year" assistant to the US Attorney General in W.W. II, hearing 200 conscientious objector cases (with only one presidential reversal on appeal) and re­ceiving a "calico badge" of commendation from Pres. Truman. 
He has been president of Merrick House, a Catholic settlement house, and is now an honorary life trustee. He has served ten years apiece as chairman of the Diocesan Catholic Charities Advisory Board and the Board of the Community Fund, of which he is now an honorary life member. A trus­tee of the coordinating Welfare Federation, he gives counsel to all member agencies. With Harry (Red) Miller he organized the ND Club of Cleveland and was among the founders of the Club Scholarship Fimd, Club Retreats and the anntial Married Couples Retreat at Fatima Retreat House. 
Mr. Cull married Magdalene Daley in 1920. They have four daughters, and ap­plication has been made for the admission of grandson Jimmie Schumacher with the freshman class of 1980. 
Notre Dame Alumntu, August-September, 1964 43 
at Cleveland's Gilmour Academy UQUI his retire­ment to Holy Cross House last year, Fr. Hcbert is a former head of the classics dept. at ND, also taught at Portland and continues his interest in botany and ornithology since retirement from teach­ing Latin and Greek in J938. 
JAMES F. KEENAN '13 (LL.D *57) of Fort Wayne, Ind., was named XD Man of the Year by the Fort Wayne Club while a former fellow touTisman, DICK ROSENTHAL '5+, got similar recognition from the ND Club of the St. Joe Valley. Jim is president of the Kccnan Hotel Corp. of Fort Wayne and donor of Kcenan Hall on the campus. Honored for scrx'icc to tlie Fort Wayne ND Club over many years, he was also appointed by Bishop Purslcy as a member of tlic Diocesan Lay Advisory- Board. 
A Holv Cross priest for 54 vcars, REV. BOLE­SLAW J. SZTUCZKO CSC recently celebrated his 79th birthday, retired as pastor of St. Hedwigc's Churcli in South Bend and turned the parish back to the Fort Wa>-nc-South Bend DJoccse, thereby ending 87 years of management by the Congre­gation of Holy Cross. Fr. Sztuczko recalled being interned in Poland in 1939 by Nazi-Communist coalition forces while trj'ing to expand CSC ac­tivities there. 
In June we got a copy of a letter from HARRV 

W. ZOLPER W of Rapid Citv, S.D., to classmate JOHN DUGGA-V QULVX, uhicli read m part: "Here it is . . . but two weeks from our 60th anniversary of graduation . . . when FR. /VNDREW MORRISSEV handed cadi of us our ciwl engineer's sheepskin. A grand day it was for some 35 of us four-year men. I count 33 on our Class picture before me — you sitting in the middle of tlie front row. CHARLES P. K.AHLER should be in the picture, too. 
"We were both back at tlie UnivcrtJty in 1954 for our oOtli anniversarv*; now and then we hoped to meet again on our 60th, the Good Lord willing, and here it is upon us with his help. . . . You and I were about the last ones to leave for home after that meeting, you for the far eastern end of Pcnn­5>ivania, I for the Black Hills on the far west end of South Dakota. .. . I should not tr>- to make our 60lh at XD this year because of my unpre­dictable rheumatic illness at \*ariou5 times; I dare not do much ^^'alking. . . . Uncle Sam had dis­charged me from his construction work (on the ordnance base at Igloo, S.D., near Edgemont) just one day before my 71st birthday. One is considered to be age 70 on the law books up to 
the last day. I had been the project's construction 
engineer continuously for 12 years. Then I spent the year 1954 at home, fixing up the place here and there. .. . In March, 1935, I had a stroke one evening in the audience at the high school festival. This . . . weakened my ph>-sical condi­tion considerably, to say the least. 
"Thanks to my government annuity and social security, monthly pay checks have always been on time since February, 1955. Yet .. . I would like just another visit to Our Ladj-'s Grotto at Xotrc Dame du Lac, with my Lourdes rosary at hand. . . . The Lord has been good to us, and we wilt thankfully appreciate His permission to celebrate our 60th anniversary at home. The Alumni Assn. does keep us in mind. . . ." Assuredly we do, &fr. Zolper, and we appreciate this reminiscence in lieu of your appearance this year. ^Vc only wish more of the Semicentenarians would check in, cither in person or tn the mails. 
Mae Sullivan (2970 Sheridan Rd., Chicago), the widow of the late JOSEPH J. SULLIVAN '01, included these lines about her husband in an ac­knowledgment of FATHER HESBURGH's letter of sympathy: "As you know, Sotre Dame and the ideals dc\'eloped there as a student had lived with him for 62 years. . . . To him, Notre Dame meant not just a university . . . Notre Dame meant a way of lifCf a foundation of standards, a back­ground of ideals, a source of principles, all of w*hich guided his actions and inspired his efforts during his life. 
**He loved Notre Dame as a student .. . as an active, dedicated alumnus .. . as an inactive senior atizen filled with pride while reminisdng to his grandchildren of the glories of student life, faculty. University acliievcments, and celebrated alumni. . . ." 
Mucli of Mrs. Sulli\-an's words would apply to those Semicentenarians who have passed on or of whose deaths we have learned since the last issue. Those on whom we have some information include FRANCIS B. HUGHES '03, whose widow Eleanor lives at 85 Bogerts Mill Rd, Harrington Park, N.J., and FLOYD O. JELLISON '13, whose widow Ocie lives at 216 E. Indiana Av., Soutli Bend. Mr. Jellison, who was 36 when he received his law degree, was a prominent lauyer, veteran of 
CLASS OF '14, as usual, provided the halest and happiest senior reunion group. Golden Jubilee assemblage brought together by Secretary Walter Clements seemed to consist entirely of celebrities from areas distant as Oregon and California. 
ovQrscns combat in the Spanish-.American ^Var and WW I, and a former Republican candidate for the judiciary. 
Finally but far from least, hearty congratula­tions to Mr. & Mrs. OTTO SCHMID *09 of Kansas City, Mo. The SdimidSj both former lead­crs in KC diocesan lay affairs, celebrated thdr golden wedding anniversary last June 25. Otto b the senior active member of the KC ND Club. 
I| ^ Walter L. Clements 
Tower Building 
South Bend, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

WALTER L. CLEMENTS, THOMAS B. CURRY, WILLIAM J. CUSACK, POYNTELLE DOU'NING, JOHN R. DUNDON, SIMEON T. FLANAGAN, FRED W. GUSHURST, EUGENE 
A. KANE, JOSEPH F. KENNEY. RAY T. iflL-LER, FRANCIS P. MULCAHY, JOSEPH M. WALSH, M. EMMET ^VALTER, LEO S. ZGOD­ZINSKL 
•15 Albert A. Kuhlc 117 South Simset Ave. La Grange, IlL 

A postcard from ALVIN H. BERGER indicated that he was sojourning in tlie sun at McAlIcn, Tex., in March. He had learned about the surgery t had in December — wished me well and said he will "*vant to see you come a year divisable by five." 
In a letter. WILLIAM M. CARROLL reported that his residence address is 621 West Judd St., ^Voodstock, 111. He continued that "this happens to be the same town in which I was living when I attended Notre Dame. After graduation with the Class of '15 I was admitted to the bar of Illinois. Practiced law until 1945 when I was elected Judge 
o! the Circuit Court, in whtdi office I am stUl 
ser\-ing. In addition to my duties on that Court I have, since 1953, been also, by assignment of the Supreme Court, a Judge of the Appellate Court of Illinois. Have also served as a member of the General Assembly and as State's Attorney of my county. That about covers my practice and public service. I have two fine sons: WILLIAM M- CAR­ROLL JR. '43 and JAMES P. *51. InddcntaUy, Jim made the "Spotlight Alumnus" in a recent edition of our alumni publication. (Feb.-March, 1954.) Yes, there are a few grandchildren — 11 in number to be exact. I hope it will be possible for me to help celebrate the Fiftieth Anniversary of GUI' class. Such an event is rare." 
NORMAN H. RANSTEAD, 124 No. Wolf Rd., Des Plaincs, HI., favored me with the follou-ing communication dated May 14. "Thanks for your letter of May 12 reminding me of my promise to bring you up to date on certain statistical information. We have two daughters — Marie and Betty. Marie is Mrs. Edwin R. Hodge Jr. and Betty Mrs. Robert P. Williams. Dr. Hodge is dean of the school of commerce at Toledo U., Toledo, 
O. Dr. Williams is actios Iicad of the depart­ment of bacteriology in the college of medicine of Baylor U. at Houston, Tex. Both girls received master's degrees from Northwestern U. —- Marie from the scliool of business administration and Betty from tlie school of speech. Marie has two boys—22 and 10—and two girls-19 and 15. The oldest boy will be graduated from Toledo U. this 9 June. Betty has two boys — 16 and 14. Both girls have taught college classes in their respective fields and Betty has regularly had parts in plays at the Alley Theatre in Houston. Mrs. Ranstead takes art lessons weekly from Gianni Gilfone and has stayed w*ith conventional landscapes and still life oils of the 'Old ScIiooL' 
".•\fter almost twenty-eight years with Universal Oil Products Co., a new ruling making age 65 the mandatory limit brought retirement on Oct. 31, 1962. After a few montlis of what might be termed a *rest' period, an opportunity was ofTercd to en­gage in design work as consultant on an oil re­fining project and have since been more or less active on similar endeavors. 
"However, have ahv-ays found time, weather ^ permitting, to play nine holes of golf i\*ith Mrs. * Ranstead two or three afternoons each ^veck. I<ast year we finished the season on Tlianksgiving and started this year on Feb. 5. It was such a balmy day — for the Chicago district — that we played nine holes in the morning and nine more in the afternoon." 
A brief note from HENRY J. FRAWLEY, Route 2, Spearfish, S. Dak., indicated that he and his son HENRY J. FRAWLEY JR. '60 are busily en­gaged in the operation of a large ranch in the Black Hills country. On the ranch of 5,000 acres they have tliousands of cattle — one of the largest in that section of the countr>'. 
Am glad to be able to report that I am feeling fine and there is every indication that the doctor ^ has my problem under control and that I am Y "as good as new." 
From the Alumni OfUcc: GEORGE SHUSTER, the adventurous assistant to the peregrinating president of the University, has had a whole batch of new adventures in re­cent months. The Shuster saga includes: recci^ng a medal from rector Dr. Herbert Luers proclaim­ing his honorar>' citizenship in the Free University of Berlin, bestowed in 1954 as one of several honors for hb German studies and work as State Commb­sioner for Ba\*aria in the US Zone during the early fifties (President Kennedy, a later honorary citizen, received the first such medal last year before his death); delivering the commencement address at St. Paul's (Minn.) College of St. Catherine, stressing ^ 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 1964 
the importance of continuing education for young 
^graduates through such devices as worluhops in the humanities, personal programs of serious reading, use of such mass media as television for educa­tional purposes, and a home art collection; giWng a speech on education before the ND Club of the Twin Cities, in which he maintained that dis­continuation of parochial education would not only not save money for Catholics but probably cost them much more; writing a chapter in a similar Vein for Daniel Callahan's book Federal Aid and Catholic Schools (Helicon, 160 pp., §3.S5); wel­coming a $50,000 grant from O'Brien Corp.'s JERRY CROWXEY '31 as one of the first gifts toward his Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary* So­ciety; and, among many campus diorcs, scr\'ing as 
^ a member of a panel on "Recent Prize Literature" at the 29th annual meeting of the Indiana College English Assn., held In the new >fcmorial Library on the ND campus. 
Grovcr F. Miller 
'16 
220 9th St. Racine, Wis, 
REGIS FALLON sent in some news on CARL­TON GILBERT '49 and JOHN DOLAN '50 and enclosed some of his own doings far from PhocnLx, Ariz. He left June 1 with the Orpheus ^falc Chorus of Phocnbc, flew to Toronto, Canada, to sing at 
k the International Rotar>' Convention, then on to 
" Montreal, Quebec, Boston and New York to sing at the World's Fair, and finally on to Washington for a concert and some sacred songs at the grave of the late President JOHN F. KENNEDY LL.D '50. Tlie chorus had the pleasure of singing for him when he was in Phoenix. 
Regis added: "The picture in the ALUMNUS of some of the old Minims in Chicago sure brought some wonderful memories. Knew some of them but was surprised that there were so few. . . ." 
TIM G.\LVIN of Hammond, Ind., was back on the campus within a month of the Memorial Library Dedication, this time to be awarded an honorary 
LL.D degree at the 119th annual commencement exercises. Tim was honored not only for his long career as a lawyer but also for his cxtravocatlonal scn'Icc as a University trustee since 1946, as former deputy supreme knight of the K of C and as a 
i director or trustee of several institutions including Our Sunday Visitor, the national Catholic news­paper. 
•
1 7 Edward J. McOskcr 

•
 ' 525 N. Melrose Ave. Elgin, III. 


From the Alumni OfHce: After 43 years on the staff of the University of Dayton, Athletic Director HARRY C. BAUJAN* is retiring. The "blond beast" leaves behind a long and colorful career on the Dayton campus, a career which began in 1922 when he u-as named an assistant football coach and reached its climax when the university's football stadium was named I "Baujan Field" in 1961. A year later he was named to the Helms Athletic Foundation Football Hall of Fame. Congratulations to Harry on that honor-filled tenure, one of the longest In American athletics, and best wishes for a long and happy retirement. Similar wishes go to the "dean of claims men" on his retirement from active serx'Ice with Em­ployers Mutual Casualty Co. W. J. HYNES, former \ice-presldcnt and secretary and for the last five years the firm's claims counsel, got a sendoff last spring from the officers and directors of the com­pany and members of the Iowa state insurance commission. The retirement luncheon included presentation of a silver tea scr\-ice by the board . chairman for more than 30 years oi service tliat » included claims suptr%-ision in Minnesota, Chicago and the Dcs Moines home office after earlier work as a lauTcr, wholesale coal dealer and Independent insurance adjuster. Continuing the directorship gained as an officer in 1946, he had some com­ments on the insurance business over 40 years: there has been a radical change, particularly in public information; years ago "a blind man could see the trend toward killing the golden ^ egg in cx­tra\'agant jury awards," but the trend Is now mov­ing in the other direction; automobile insurance Is a hazardous game, only made possible by more profitable lines and sound investment, but he be­lieves there are still golden opportunities for young people In the business. DAN HILGARTNER and Mary Ruth observed their 45th wedding anniversary with a Mass of thanksgiving and a renewal of their nuptial vows 
In their parish church on June 7, followed by a reception for relatives, classmates and friends in their Forest Springs home at Harbert, Michigan. 
•1 
A George Waage 

• 
O 3305 Wrightwood Ave. Chicago, 111. 


REUNION REGISTRANTS J^VMES L. S>VEENEY, GEORGE WAAGE. 
Hey, hey—I918'ers — let's have some news from you I 
Latest News Flash: JOHN A. LEMMER Ph.B., Escanaba, Mich., a it'Idou'cr since last year, took unto himself a new wife on April 15th. Best wishes. 
Your Class President- comes out with a new mailing sticker—CDR. CRAS. W. CALL. (Ret.) 225 Paterson Avenue. Hasbrouck Heights, N.J. 
Called at the Commander's home in Winter Haven, Fla., and met his lovely wife. He has a real nice set-up. Regretted that FATHER WIL­LIAMS was so busy that he could not make Florida this year. Had hoped to have him as a house guest and have some real talkfests. Charlie is trying to land an admission to ND for his grand­son in the fall of '65. Christopher Call Bonwit — now completing his third year at WJlliston Acad­emy, Easthampton, Mass., is a good student and the nephew of L. M. C/\LL '20, and cousin of 
L. M. GALL. Jr. *49. Also Charlie's pulling for the admission of Michael Kelly, junior in Winter Park High School. Orlando, Fla. — grandson of ALBERT M. "RED" KELLY, baseball and foot­ball at ND, 1910-11; son of the late Col. John R. Kelly, West Point, who died of war injuries. Michael jumps 6 ft. on the high school track team — is a good student and needs a scholarship. 
lefflfllUiUnilS 
VINCENT J. HANRAHAN "22 In the Old Hacienda, a New Career 
A veteran of forty years* geographical service to government and industry, much of it in Latin America, Vincent Joseph Hanrahan recently retired from the Navy Department only to begin a new and even more rewarding career South of the Bor­der. As head of Catholic Relief Services' Mexico Mission for the National Catholic Welfare Conference, he just returned to Mexico City from a disaster area that re­sulted from an earthquake in July. 
Vince's degree in Foreign Commerce was put to good use. Starting in aerial 
It's ia the bag, Charlie, with that fonulr tree. 
Wish we had some late news to report thaat 
former ND track star DIL THOMAS H. KING. 
We know that he is chief of mission for Midugia 
State U. at Ryukyus U. Tom is credltnl with 
being the guy who arranged the first ND-Hidi. 
State football game. 
Your secretary had the pleasure of meeting Mrs. 
ERNEST BURKE and am truly sorry to report 
that on last Oct. 23 she passed au-ay — her death 
due to cancer. "STUFFIE** BURKE left on Apnk 
22 for his fifth trip to Europe on the S.S. Satmniia 
and will spend a month in the Austrian Alps. Gee, 
I knew the guy when he, "OLD DUTCH" 
BERGMAN (who has passed away) and the writer 
were roommates in Corby Hall Subway. Burke, 
the old first baseman, didn't have a "pot" or a 
window to throw It out of. My guess now is 
that "Stufiie" will get "hooked" again and real 
soon. They'll ne\'er let him enjoy that Orlando 
"doll house" of his alone. 
That Corby HaU guy, NLiXBHUAN KAZUS, 
owes me some correspondence. Come now. Max, 
let's hear from you. 
Honestly thought that GEO. £. HARBERT 
would send a card from Arizona. Want to thank 
George for identifying the fellows on the pictures 
I sent him. 
Had a note from the hurdler, E. M. "MOR­
RIE" STARRETT, who Is still all WTapped up in 
ND and the football team. 
JAMES L. SWEENEY, who had hopes of getting 
cast this year and back to ND in June, states if 
he comes alone he wants to look up SHERWOOD 
DIXON. Jim is taking a picture sent him to 
JIM H.ANLON and JIM LOGAN. It is a group 
picture taken in a Corby Hall room, and he states 
perhaps the three of us can remember the names. 
Jim also for^s-arded me LEO VOGEL's address — 
mapping with Brock & Weymouth Inc., Philadelphia, he worked on successive sur­veys for Standard Oil Co. of Venezuela, the Guatemala-Honduras Boundary Com­mission, and the Inter-American Geodetic Sur\*ey — the last a cooperative mapping program involving the topography of 16 Latin American nations — for more than 20 years and many more thousands of miles. In the midst of this globetrotting he married Mary Brooks of Bedford, Ind. They have three children: Vincent and Dianne, both married, and Laurence A. Hanrahan ND '60. 
Returning to the US in 1951, principally for the education of his children, Vince joined the Office of Naval Intelligence to work mth the Joint Navy-Air Force Map­ping Program. This operation was taken over by the Defense Intelligence Agency in 1963. Retiring from US Government ser\-ice and the Naval Reserve (with which he saw action in both World Wars), he joined Catholic Relief Services of NCWC and ivas assigned to Mexico — one of 78 countries in which CRS operates. 

The Mexico Mission is providing sup­plementary foodstuffs (under the Alliance for Progress) to 1,300,000 needy Mexicans. Grants received through the New York and Geneva offices of CRS are administered and reported on by the Mexican office. Currently he is keeping an eye on 226 US and Canadian college students who have volunteered for t^vo months of service in Mexico under the Conference on Inter-American Student Projects. 
Vince hopes CRS will get more recruits from among ND men. About his assign­ment he wrote recently: "It is reassuring to see the activity of the Mexican clergy and people and to have some concept of the aid, both Catholic and nondenomina­tional, that is pouring into the cotmtry from all over the world. We look forward to improved Church-State relations." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 45 
CLASS OF '24 reunionists sat out their 40th Anniversary picture as the only "breather" in a momiDg that included a Class Mass at Corby Hall, a private tour of the Memorial Library and a long trek to the North Dining Hall for a special Class luncheon. Members attended these events as guests of Fr. Phil Moore CSC, who served as local chairman. 
300 Mt. Lebanon Blvd., Pittsburgh, Pa. Vogcl was the star Javelin thrower on the track team. Re­ferring to a picture of FATHER MURRAY, 
Sweeney ifriies; *'He sure doesn't look like he 
e\'er was a good boxer — but he really could hit. By way of further information, FATHER MUR­RAY was a real good boxer. I don't remember if I told you, but BILL EG/VN and I lived in the bridal suite (tlie apparatus room in the Gym). Ray was always a quiet fellow and did not want to work out with the others, so he would come to tlic Gym about every Friday evening and we boxed. I thought I was handy with the gloves, but he had me beat. Bill and I rigged him after I saw J couldn't handle him. If I was doing good the rounds were long, and of course it was the opposite if I was taking it. I see him every time I go there and from some of his remarks I am sure we did not kid him." Well, JI.M SWEENEY has the copies of the picture he requested and an addi­tional one for him to forward to FATHER MUR­RAY. 
PETER J. RONCHETTI ChE reports, "I had cataracts of both eyes removed and now, thank God, I have 20-20 vision with glasses." No golf for Pete for a while, but it won*t be long before he is out again follomng that little white ball. 
LEO J. VOGEL wrote that the pictures brought back a lot of memories. "Golly, I'll bet they have ten times the floor space that was there •when we infected the place. I have been ofTered a free meal by the administration in connection with dedicating the library'. In our time it »»'as under the roof above BrouTison Hall. If we had all the present-day facilities we might have been smarter — but we weren't nearly as strong. These gorillas today thro\%' the javelin over 200 ft. in high school and run the mile as fast as the first mile in a two-mile relay. But I think wc had a helluva lot more fun." Hc>', Leo, send us a card from India and let's hear more about what you arc doing there. 
LOUIS E. WAG.NER PfiBC writes about the pictures. "They recall tlic metaphysics-ethics class under FATHER CON HAGERTY. I «-as keep­ing the roll call for Father Hagcrty. He trusted me completely-—watched evcr>' check mark. I was trying to cover for STE\V CARROLL of the Lilacs fraternity. Our Class has its own orchestra and speaker's bureau in Ronchctti and his accordion and FRANK RYDZEWSKI of the Holy Name Speakers Bureau. Must have DOC. WH.\LEN standing ringside, FATHER WILLIAMS and FATHER HOLDERITH for casualties in the dwindling audience" Well, Louis, ^*-e all had fun at the 45th Reunion. 
DR. NEIL J. AVHALEN BS, referring to the 
pictures, writes: *'It w*as indeed nice to see some 
of your pla>-mates and closely knit friends of b>-gone 
da)?. I'm afraid school today is so different from 
when we were forming the mold for the future. 
An>-way Noire Dame really meant a lot to me and 
everything that went with it. We leave for the 
West Indies — returning ^vhen winter of I9G4- will 
lave departed." Sincerely hope the "Doc" had 
fc most interesting trip. 
BIG FRANK RYDZE^VSKI has JOSEPH R. 
IRANDY of Ogdensburg, N.Y., as a classmate. 
Sig Frank states that he took Joe by the hand 
ud draped him through the Anny line for the 

only touchdoivn and then place-kicked for the biggest upset of the year — ND, 7; Oliphant and .•\nay, 0- Joe is reading his clippings and sharing 'cm «'ith a son who is a specialist in Ob.-Gj'n., practicing in Ogdensburg, and a daughter married to a Bell Telephone executive. Joe states he is up to — (not his neck) in grandchildren — nine. Hasn't seen PETE BAH.\N since he left ND. Suppose you know tiiat BILL FFTZGERALD, first baseman, died as did MAL GOOLEY from Syra­cuse. The report on Big Frank is that he is A-OK, all but for his feet. F.\THER DORE.MUS can and did walk him off his feet while wc walked around the campus. 
Those who have seen the pictures taken at the 45th reunion arc FATHER WILLIAMS, CHAS. CALL, GEO. E. HARBERT, DOCTOR WHALEN, JOHN A. LEMMER, PETER J. RONCHETTI and LOUIS E. AVAGNER, and they arc now on their way to Mexico and ^MLLIAM J. ANDRES. You \rill be next as soon as they arc returned. There are twenty, and if you'd like to look 'cm over drop a card. 
FRANCIS JOHN HURLEY LLB has a change of address now at 2115 I^y Place, Sarasota, Fla. 33580. 
Well, OIc Timer, another June has passed away. Only four more and then our GOLDEN JUBILEE Reunion. 
Be seeing you then! 

From the Alumni Office: 
Prof. TOM KING of ifichigan State has em­barked on a new phase of a many-sided career as assistant to the director of alumni relations. Tom recently returned from Okinawa, where he spent a year as clucf of mission to the University of the Rj-ukyus. He has held many important as­signments with the university, ranging from assistant football coach to dean of students and head of the dept. of police administration. He set up the model placement and personnel offices at MSU and also scrv'cd as a professor of la^v and coun­sellor of men. *'Wc are particularly pleased to have tlic services of Prof. King, whose long association with the university qualifies him fully for his new duties," the alumni director said. "We will use his background experience in carrying out a com­bination of both alumni and development fund pro­grams.'* 
Among the first magistrates named to the Cir­cuit Court of Cook County, 111., by judges meeting in the county building last spring was EDWIN T. BREEN, a former first assistant state's attorney. Ed u-as pictured by Chicago newspapers as one of the best qualified of new appointees to the $16,000­a-year position. 
'19 Theodore C. Radcmakcr Peru Fotmdry Co. Peru, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS PAUL FENLON, GEORGE D. HALLER, TED 

C. RADEMAKER, E. MORRIS STARRETT, FRANK H. S^VEENEY. 
From the Altmini Office: LEO V, DUBOIS was recently retired from the real estate firm of Frederick A. Schmidt in Cin­cinnati, O. Leo had spent 41 years with the com­pany and had scned as its president since 1957, Best wishes for a long, happy rest. 
>^f| James H. Ryan 
170 Maybrook Rd. 
Rochester, N.Y. 

From the Alumni Office: 
An era ended when ^VILLIAM F. (BILL) FOX died last spring in Indianapolis. Sports editor ol the Indianapolis News since 1939 and a sports uTiter since 1921, Bill was one of the "deans" of the crztft in the Grantland Rice tradition and as such won the coveted Rice Memorial award in 1959. In 19S2 he won the Indiana sports journalists' Joe Boland award, became one of ver>' few honorary ^ members of the ND Monogram Club, and he con-' ? tinned to write for many years after illness had slowed the pace of his sports coverage. He is credited as the leading promoter of Indiana high school basketball and coiner of the phrase **Hoosier H>'5teria." The Indiana High Scliool Basketball Assn. voted him a lifetime official's card as "the one who has contributed more than any other one person to the growth of Indiana high school basket­ball." From coast to coast sports columnists eulo­gized Bill with anecdotes about his sartorial splen­dor, his ire about being transferred to sports after a few months on the statehouse beat, and the great influence of his column "Shootin* *Em." Bill has the prayers of all his friends and classmates, who extend sympathy to his widow Alice and his three children — particularly his alumni son MICHAEL •% FOX '53. 
'91 ^^" ^^' ^^y
1101 Superior BIdg. Cleveland, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: CHET GRANT calls in novv and then to demon­strate that his interest in things athletically Irish is still large and lively. The spirit of "Bearskin" may yet haunt the Era of Ara. 
• ^ G. A. "Kid" Ashe 
-fc* 175 Landing Rd. No. % Rochester, N.Y. *" 

In the Travel Department, we can report the amval of postal greetings dtspatclicd from Granada, Spain, by Margaretta and JACK HIGGINS, whose home base is Birmingham, Mich. Still ahead of them on their springtime Journey were anticipated lisits in Rome, France and Ireland. 
Hearty congratulations from the Class of '22 to a fine classmate — JOHN PAUL CULLEN, who was one of the pioneer advocates for a new library on the ND Campus. John Paul and DR. MATT WEIS, holders of gilt-edge invitations, were present at the formal library dedication ceremonies. 
More congratulations and best wishes arc in order for DR. DANIEL L. SEXTON of St. Louis on being the recipient of the "Man of the Year" ^ 
i6 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August'SeptembeT, 1964 
award sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumn! Club ^i n St. Louis. Dr. Dan is a past president oE the ^American Therapeutic Society, the St. Louis Medi­
cal Society, and the Southern Medical Assn. DR. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, assistant to FR. HES-BURGHf was guest speaker for the occasion. 
We are delighted to report that the GEORGE KERVERs of 1281 Brooklyn Ave.. Cleveland, now have 13 grandchildren. 
The FRANK BLOEMERs are still commuting bct»»een Louisville and Aripcha, Fla., with regular stop-offs for spiritual refreshment at the Abbey of Our Lady of the Holy Ghost located at Congers, Ga. 
From May 29 to June 6 FR. GEORGE B. FISCHER CSC, of the Eastern .Mission Band of the Holy Cross Fathi;rs, was on assignment at the 

• U. of Portland in Oregon. It was his first visit to the Far West. Before returning to the East, he was hoping to make brief stops in San Francisco, Los Angeles, and New Orleans. 
VINCENT J. HANRAHAN of 3712 Sic^vart Drive, Che^-y Chase, Md., retired from U.S. Gov­ernment ser\*icc last November. .After two months of rest and relaxation, he decided retirement was not for him, at least, for the present. Vince Is now in Mexico City with the Catholic Relief Scr\*­ices of NCWC and tra\"cls throughout Mexico in his work. Wife Mary reports Vince is ver^' happy in his new endeavor. 
From the Alumni Oflicc: 

• CLARENCE E. (PAT) MANION is riding a crest with the "Afanion Forum" and Americans for Conservative Action at this wiiting, with Sen, Barry Goldwater looming so large on the American political horizon. Pat is perhaps the most prom­inent of many alumni s)*mpathizing with the Gold­water credo of rugged individualism. .A recent "Forum" show, inadcntally, included a host ol famous Manion guests' voices on the perils of Communism — Goldwater, Cardinal Gushing, Capt. Eddie Rickenbackcr, Sen. Harry Byrd, Sen. Strom Thurmond, the late Sen. Joseph McCarthy, the late Gen. Douglas MacArthur, etc. 
VINCENT HANILVHAN is far from retired although he recently left the Navy Dcpt. after 12 years' scn'ice. An old hand in Central and South America, Vince has joined the National Catholic Welfare Conference's Catholic Relief Services as 

^ assistant director for Mexico, superx-ising distribu­tion of food, clothing and medicine to those in need south of the Border. 
Congratulations to AL M. HECIC on his investi­ture last April in the Knights of the Order of St. Gregor>' the Great by Archbishop Luccy of San Antonio. 
'9 ^ Louis V. Bruggncr 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
R. H. NASH, JOHN NORTON, W. E. SHEA. 
EDWARD G. DcGREE, 172 Lewiston Road, Grosse Pointc 36, Mich., died ^farch 3, according to Word reaching the Alumn! OfHce. Since his early .\IumnI days he had been in the practice of law at Detroit. A resume of his career, received from his widow, Mrs. Mclla DcGree, says in part: "after leaving the University Ed took a short leave of absence from his law firm to be line coach un­der James Phclan at Purdue . . . after two years became assistant U.S. District .Attorney in De­troit .. . in the fall coatiicd the line at Detroit under Gus Dorais .. . in 1925 he married me, Afclla Zeis from St. Cloud, Minn. .. . in 1927 he started his own law practice under the name of Fildcro, DcGrce, Fleming & Gilbride - . . was 

k a ver>- respected and succcsslul lauycr, dedicated to his profession. We have a daughter who lives near us . . . also sur^-ived by his brother, Walter and a sister, Anna DcGree Obon of Minneapolis." Classmates remember Ed's football prowess with nostalgic pride and sincerely regret his passing. 
REV. LEO R. WARD CSC is the author of a new book "Federal Aid and Private Schools" from which a chapter "Federal .Aid: Why the Attitude is Changing" w*as condensed and published as the lead article In Our Sunday Visitor magazine sec­tion, issue of April 5. 
From the Alumni Oflice: 
J. DANIEL CULHANE, a native of Rochester, N.Y., was honored last spiing in Washington, D.C., mth the "Distinguished Achievement Award" for dedicated service to boys from the Professional Assn. of the Boys' Clubs of America at a fellow­
ship dinner in the ballroom of the Scatter Hilton 
Hotel during the 58th annual convention of the 
national youth guidance organization before a gath­
ering of over 1,000. Dan, director of the Middle 
Atlantic region of Boys' Clubs of America, was 
formerly chairman of the national program com­
mittee of USD, has been active nationally in youth 
work, has been a member of the White House 
Conference for Children and the Committee on 
the Prevention and Reduction of Juvenile Delin­
quency, and is a member of many professional 
organizations. He has been the recipient of the 
Boys' Clubs of America Keystone Award and in 
1933 received the Friendship Award from the Mexi­
can Government for his boys work in Chicago, III. 
Ban has represented the Bo^'s* Clubs of America 
in Washington, D.C., since 1945. He is a resident 
of Chevy Chase, ^fd. 
Sympathy to JOHN W. NIE.MIEC and his brothers on the recent death of thrJr brother Joe in South Bend. 
^^A James R, Mcehan 
301 S. Lafayette Blvd. 
South Bend, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTR.VNTS "CURLY" ASH, THOMAS W, BARBER, CYRIL 
T. BIRKBECK. IRVING V!. CAREY, UlLLIAM 
J. CONNORS, THOMAS E. COOKE, PAUL J. CRADEN, WILLIAM J. CROOK, THOM.AS C. DONOVAN, WILLIAM J. DRENNEN, LEVI .A. GENIESSE. ROBERT E. GLASSCOTT, LEO C. HERINGER, EARL C. HURLEY, JAMES D. HURLEY, J. FARRELL JOHNSTON, PAUL J. KENNEDY, ALVIN I. KOEHLER, RAYMOND 
J. LANG, HAROLD L. LONDO, JOHN P. Mc-GOORTY, JOSEPH P. McKEOWN, FRED G. MANCUSO, JAMES R. MEEH.AN, T. CLIFFORD NOONAN, WALTER G. NOVESKY, FRANK J. O'BOYLE, JOHN R. PETRICH, BENJAMIN C. PISER, JAMES G. POWERS, ROBERT P. REA­GAN, MICHAEL A. SCHMITT, JOHN P. SUL­LIV.\N, JAMES P. SWIFT. 
From the Alumni OfHce: Tivo deaths in May somewhat subdued the joy of an otherwise pleasant •\Qth Anniversary Reunion in June. FR. HENRY BOLGER CSC, respected both as a priest and a physicist, died before he could be awarded an honorarv* Sc.D degree from St. Procopius College, but the honor was con­ferred posthumously. The death of industrialist-philanthropist BOB RINK in Goshen, Ind., was equally unexpected and shocking to the Class. Deepest sympathy to Bob's family and that of Fr. Bolger, including his brother FRANCIS X. BOLGER '26. 
FR. PHIL MOORE CSC was of great help to Secretary JIM MEEHAN in the plaoning d the 40th. llie veteran acadenuc assistant to FR. HE5­BURGH played host to the Class with a Memorial Mass at Corby Hall, a private tour of the mag­nificent Memorial Library he was so instrumental in planning, and a special luncheon to extend the good fellowship of the previous evening's Class Dinner. 
John P. Huxley 
"25 
2085 Brookdale Rd. Toledo, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTRANT 
B. B. LIVERGOOD. 
Letters from you **twenty-fivers" have been few 
and far between as I have only received two in the 
pas t six mon ths. One came from ANSELM 
MILLER of Roanoke, Va., and the other from 
TONY GONZALES in the far-olT Philippines. At 
least Tony and your secretary are thinking of 
our 40th Anniversary Reunion. Man, did you e%*er 
think you would live to sec it? By the grace of 
God, you are still here, so plan on being there 
on the Notre Dame campus in 1965. 
From "Ansc" the following letter: 
"Hello John: Enclosed is my latest reminder of 
the flight of time. Another will be my sixty-third 
birthday on May 20th. 
**I am sorry I missed >-ou when you were 
through Roanoke some time ago. Do it again 
and plan to spend a few hours with me at least. 

*'I am enjoying relatively good health and am working every day almost as hard as ever. 
"Sorry I have not been more closely in touch \viih things Notre Dame over the years — but one cannot have everything. I would like to see any of the '25 gang who happen to come this way including you, John, the next time you arc through. Sincerely, Anse" 
A newspaper clipping sent by "Anse'* went on to say in part: "ANSELM D. MILLER, presi­dent of the Southwest Savings and Loan Assn. since 1936, has been elected chairman of the board. 
"Miller was honored at a dinner meeting of di­rectors and their wives at the Shenandoah Club Wednesday night. Miller is president and treasurer of the Virginia Metal Mfg. Co. Inc. and bccaipe a director of the Sa\-ings and Loan Assn. in 1934. He started with Virginia Metal in 1925 after grad­uating from Notre Dame and rose to his present post in 1954. He is the director of Colonial Ameri­can National Bank and was one of the founders of the Roanoke chapter of the National Conference of Christians and Jews." 
"Anse," it was great hearing from you and I hope you can be back for our 40th reunion. I cer-
FOUR ALUMNI who are prominent in the Chicago area appeared recently on the WBBM-TV program, "Quiz and Quote," which is conducted by the archdiocese to inform the general public about the Church. Representing the club were (L-r.): Paul Pfohl '22, vice-president of RCA; Art Conrad '35, vice-president of FKck-Reedy Corp. and immediate past president of the club; Howard Phalin *28, executive vicc-prcadent of Field Enterprises; and Paul Fullmer '55, vice-president of The Selz OrganizatifMi and pre^dent of the Chicago alumni group. Father John Banahan and Don Kennedy served as moderators. The Notre Dame panel answered all five questions, which are posed in a manner similar to the "What's My Line?" format. 
Notr4 Dame AlumnuSj August-September, 196^ 47 
ORANGE COUNTY — Guests from the campus, the Alumni Board and other Southern Califomia alumni chapters joined the member­ship for a UND Night dinner at the Disneyland Hotel in Anaheim, Calif.: (front row, from left) S- Finan, M. Goodman, J, Armstrong, 
T. Getadnger and R. Ger>-ais; (standing) B. Maddock, A. Price, \V, Nieuwlandt, B. Gallivan, J. Huartc, B, Lajoie, J, DeCoursey, J. Tidgovell, G. Shaheen, G. Yatuni, M-Trzwley and J. AfcGerty, Jim Armstrong (seated, center) spoke. 
tainly will call you if I ever happen to be pass­
ing through Roanoke on tlic way down or from 
the High Point furniture market. 
TONY GONZALES, it was ^vonderful hearing 

from you again and I appreciate tlie way you 
took care of my good friends, the Baileys from 
Toledo, Ohio. \Vc %*ill all be looking forward to 
seeing you and meeting your family at our fortieth 
reunion. 
JIM ARMSTRONG, with his light tissue copies, 

has come through with a few sad notes. Mrs. Rose 
Romweber, PAUL RO>r\\*EBER»s mother, passed 
away in February' of this year. Please accept my 
deepest s>-mpaihy and the sj-mpathy of the entire 
Class of 1925 in your loss. As Jim sa>'s in his 
letter to you, many alumni will add their prayers 
and Masses as they share the sod nevt's. 
This is a letter Jim sent to FRANK A. REESE, 605 W. Main Street, Robinson, III.: "Dear Frank: We have learned here at Notre Dame uith grief and sj-mpathy of the death of MiJdred (Frank's wife). This is an occasion on which faith pa>-s tis its richest dividends on the investment of our understanding of God and His will. A ^fass will be offered on June 6th in memory of your wife. Many alumni wUl add many prayers and Masses as they share the sad news." 
Mildred Reese, Frank's wife, died April 30, 19M. 
(Ed. Note: Although wc have kept the future 

tense, the following was meant for the June 
issue. JL) 
To get back to the brighter side and as a Etimulator for our Fortieth, I definitely would recommend that tlie Class of 1925 join all the Midwestern alumni and wives, children and grand­children in the great reunion planned at Cedar Point on July 5, 6 and 7. 
Many of you, no doubt, have already heard from DON MILLER and JOHN CHAPLA who are acting as co-chairmen for this wonderful event. There will be a Alass at one o'clock on Sunday, July 5th, which will allow fellows from a range of 150 to 200 miles from Cedar Point to drive their families and still make the Mass in the afternoon. There will be special prices and rates in the Breakers Hotel, as well as rides for the kiddies in the midway. It is generally conceded that Cedar Point has one of the best bathing beaches in the Midwest. On the final day, July 7th, there will be a banquet at whidi many Notre Dame celebrities will join together and rededicate the memorial to Rockne. This was, as you know, the famous birthplace of the pass "Dorais to Rockne" that sent Notre Dame zooming to fame. 
Get your reser\-ation in early as we "t^venty­fivers" certainly want to be well represented. I am going to tr\- to stir up many of the fellows that I nm into in Ohio in the next few weeks so that We will have a good attendance there. You can send your reser\'ation directly to the Breakers Hotel. 
Our classmate BEN RESTING has been nomi­nated and will be running on the Democratic ticket for county engineer. Ben •was our county engineer years ago and then was with the Comtc Construction Company for a considerable number of years. I guess he has decided that he will spend his retiring years as the engineer of Lucas County here in Toledo. He is just finishing up an unexpired term and is up for reelection in the falU 
Your sccretar>' has been made chairman of the Toledo area Challenge II drive. Let's see that the Class of '25 throughout the entire country is well represented in tiiis new drive. 
In a final pitcli for our Mass fund, don't forget to send a few dollan: to "HANK" ^VURZER. care of the Black Hawk Hotel Chain, Davenport, Iowa. 
From the Alumni Office: Horseman HARRY STUHLDREHER continues to dispense the largesse of US Steel, recently ex­tending a 51,0(X) USS aid-to-education grant to St. Mary's College as one of 760 colleges (including ND) regularly assisted by his company. Harry joined JI.M.MY CROWXEY and DON AflLLER in July at an old stomping ground. Cedar Ft., O., for the CIc\*eland ND CIub*s 1st Annual Knute Rockne Festi\-al, also attended by JOHN HURLEY (sec above) and JIM ARMSTRONG. Ailing ELMER LAYDEN hopes to Join the backfield for next summer's repeat performance. Harry's com­pany, incidentally, also sponsors the American Alumni Council's grand award for alumni giving (a trophy and $5,000 check), of which ND was the 19W recipient in Denver, represented by Arm­strong. 
Luckily for South Bend, A. J. PORTA chose to join Associates Investment as a senior vice-president in 1961 after 35 years with Studebaker. When that firm moved out Armando stayed on and became the 196t u-inner of South Bend's NCCJ Brother­hood A^v•ard, capping a couple of decades of com­munity service in a dozen charities which won him honors from the United Fund, the Chamber of Commerce and the St. Joe Valley ND Club. 
FR. TOM MaAVOY, still laboring oa his bi­ography of CARDINAL O'HARA, recently got a lot of headlines wOh his announcement that the late great CSC prelate had opposed federal aid to Catholic education for fear of mounting taxes and federal intcr\'entioa in the curriculum. 
in f Frank A. Deitic A O 2763 Kcsslcr Bird. South Bend, Ind. 

From tlic Alumni Office: 
JAMES A. ROXAN, Ilh'nois Democratic stale chairman, was a busy man in June. Jim was made permanent cliairman of tlie Democratic state repre­sentative nominating convention and broke all rec­ords in getting a committee appointed to nom­inate IIS candidates for the November election. 
•^ 7 Chrence J. Ruddy 
^ ' 32 S. River Street Aurora, III. 

REUNION REGISTRANT HERBERT JONES. 

< 

From the Alumni Office: 
GEORGE THOMAS of Cleveland dropped by the 

office in late May with his son-in-law BILL RQBI 
'58 of San Francisco. Both were much impressed by 
the Memorial Library building. 
DR. ERNEST J. WILHELM, associate prof of 

clicmical engineering at the University, was one of 
120 men throughout the nation awarded a certifi­
cate of recognition by the National Assn. of Cor­
rosion Engineers for professional accomplishments 
in their fields. 
A business education workshop for grad students 

in ND's summer MB.A program featured J,\MES 
F. FOLEY, mgr. of professional services for the Remington Rand Univac division of Spcrry Rand Corp, Associated ^rilh Remington Rand for 30 years, Jim is the autlior of Charts and Their Uses by Business Management and a number of articles M on work simplification. ^ 
Congratulations to Prof. ROBERT G. HENNES of the U. ot Washington civil engineering dcpt. on the graduation of his son DAVE HENNES '60 with an ^(D from tlie U^V med school. Dave had some of his medical training at the U. of Vienna, Austria. 
'9f i Louis F. Buckley « » 68-10 108th St. Forest Hills, N,Y. 

REUNION REGISTRANT PHIL CENDELLA. 
I am sure eacli classmate felt very proud to ^ note in the April-May, 1954, ALUMNUS that ihe ^ Class of '28 was the top class in the amount con­tributed to Challenge I. We are also very pleased at the $200,000 mural for the Notre Dame Me­morial Library given by HO^^'IE PHALIN, execu­tive A^ce-president of Field Enterprises Educational Corp. 
EDWARD CUNNINGHAM JR. of Charleston, 
S. C , died on Nov. 13, 1963. Ed was at Notre Dame from 1924 to 1929. I have not heard from Ed since our 23th reunion «hcn he u-as director of the training olfice with the US Savy in Nor­folk, Va. Treasurer JOE L.\NGTON has arranged uith FATHER MULREANY to offer a Mass for Ed. 
TTianks to the efforts of our Class vice-presidents, I have a number of interesting news items. DR. C DAN BRADLEY, V-P. for the East, reports that he had seen VIC FISCHER, an engineer with the New York State Department of Public Works. Vic, a widower, has a son at Notre Dame. JOE KISS­LING, an attorney with the Grumman .Aircraft Engineering Corp., had returned from a European jaunt. Joe, like all of us who have visited Rome, found VINCE McALOON '34, secretary of the Notre Dame Club in Rome, most helpful. BOB H.AMILTON, system stores manager for Pan American ^VorId Ainvays Inc., will have a daughter at Maryivood College next fall. Bob now has three grandchildren. ED McCLARNON advised DOC BRADLEY that Ed's son Midiael was being or­dained in June to the priesthood in the Society of Jesus at Colombierc College. Although a number of classmates have daughters in the religious life, ^ 
4S Notre Dame Alumnus^ AugustSeptemberj 1964 
I believe this is ihe first one wJth a son in the ^priesthood. Ed is manager of the claim department ^o f The Travelers Insurance Co, in New York City. BERNIE BIRD, deputy comptroller of Eric Coun­ty, wrote to Doctor Dan from Buffalo. Bcrnic's son, who finished Sotrc Dame in 1961, tvill be graduated from the U. of Buffalo Medical School next year. Bemic has been grandfathered four times. He sees BILL DO\\*DALL, who is the o^^ner of a quality chain of markets in the Buffalo area. Bernic saw FRANK COXXERS, the Arcade super-citizen on his way through that village re­cently. Frank Is the village clerk and board of education member. Bernic promises to return for our cocktail party after tlic UCLA game. JOHN ROBINSON, headmaster and founder of the 
Robinson School in West Hartford, has three grand­
• children. One of John's daughters is in the Ursu­linc Order. JACK WINGERTER of Time Inc. re­ported that LOU CARR lives in Spring Lake, N.J., and runs a prosperous men's shop. DR. DAVE SOLOMON and J. Wingcrlcr commended Dr. Bradley on his very splendid and worthwhile mis­sion work in Guatemala, which I covered in the last issue of the ALUMNUS. Dr. Solomon, who practices medicine In Gettysburg, Pa., has three boys and a daughter who are graduates of George­town. Doc Bradley, also had a letter from TURK KELLY, who has been doing administrative work for the Neiv York City Board of Education in a vocational school in Harlem for the past 22 years. During the summer he is a tournament director for 
9 the Wcstdiester Golf Assn. and the Metropolitan Golf Assn. Turk sees ROGER BRESLIN, who plays a corking good game of golf and is practicing law in Jersey. Turk corresponds with RAY MOCK at St. Tliomas College in St. Paul. Turk saw JOHN FRANKLIN, who is a doctor on the staff of New York Hospital. 
Our V-P for the U'est, ART G\NT\', Is an attorney at law in Los Angeles, Calif. He reports that MER\'YN AGGELER Is judge of the Su­perior Court of Los Angeles County for the Santa Monica District. Art saw DICK ELPERS quite often when Dick was with radio station KF.AC Dick has now retired from KFAC and from busi­ness generally. 
Art had occasion to converse with H.-\L HUD­SON recently. Hal has been very successful In the field of ictevision as an executive at the Los 
• Angeles CBS outlet, KNXT; he Is also producer of the "4 Star" Productions, owner of the "Zanc Grey" scries and chief of production for Para­mount TV. He is director of the Los Angeles Civic Light Opera Assn. CHARLIE LYNCH is a successful lawyer In Santa Barbara. JOHN WAL­LACE, who is in real estate financing in Los Angeles, has the distinction of being the only '28 man u*ith two daughters who are graduates of Notre Dame. One daughter, SR. M JEAN VIANNEY CSC, received her Ph.D there this year and an­other daughter, SR. JOHN BAPTIST IHC, re­ccived her MA there last year. John's other daughter ^^'as graduated from Immaculate Heart College in HoII>-\vood last year. 
Our V-P for the South, JACK CANIZ.ARO, gave us a report on JOHN P. 0*NEILL who is 
^ an architect in Spokane, Wash. John has a son working on his Ph.D at Stanford who will teach literature at the U. of Montreal. Another son, Michael, was completing his theology at Catholic 
U. and was being ordained in Spokane this year. John has a daughter in music at Indiana U. 
I heard from several of our traveling class­mates, including GEORGE CRONGEYER from Spain and GENE FARRELL from the Mediter­ranean. George, who is an administrative assistant with tlie Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., was recently elected to the Board of Governors of the N.D. Club of New York. Gene spotlighted last issue as editor of the Jersey Journal, was on his fourth trans-Atlantic trip in the last year. On St. Patrick's Day he marched in the parade In Dublin, Ireland, and in Jersey Citv, N.J. This was a real Utc. (feat?) CYP SPORL, president of C. A. Sporl & Co., insurance brokers and average adjusters, UTote from New Orleans as he was leaving for Europe. Cyp was married two years ago. DICK QUINLAN and GEORGE LEPPIG attended the Notre Dame International Convention on Grand Bahama Island in April. VINCE CARNEY of Rocliclle, 111., was our first World Fair visitor. Vince stopped in Boston on his return to visit his daughter, who Is em­ployed at Boston University, and JOHN HER­BERT, who is with the Will and Baumer Candle Co. 
Judge GEORGE BE.\MER continued to make the headlines when the Supreme Court left standing his famous decision that school boards have no con­stitutional duty to end racial unbalance resulting from housing patterns. 
I noted that F. X. JAMES O'BRIEN of Good-body & Co. in Miami, Fla., was quoted exten­sively in an article In the financial section of the Miami Herald recently. 
BILL DWYER gave me a report in response to a letter sent out by AUGIE GRAMS, V-P for the Midwest. As usual, the '28 Class turned out well for Chicago's UND night. HO^ME PHALIN did us proud as chairman, organizer and toast­master. Around two adjoining *28 tables were such familiar personages as GEORGE McLAUGH-LLV, ED -McSU-EENEY, BILL H.ANLEY MUR­PHY, RAY MULLIGAN, JOHN LYONS, ED RAFTER, JOHN RICKARD, BOB WINTERS, BERNARD KORZEN, BILL KEARNEY, ED Mc-KEOWN and my reporter, BILL DWTER. The printing firm of JOHN WOULFE, Clyde Printing Co., furnished the announcements for the dinner. ED McS>VEENEY, on a vacation in .Arizona, saw JOE BRANNON, now a ^Vard executive and FR.ANK DONOVAN, who was seeking respite from the snows of ^^uskegon. 
JOHN VOEDISCH, industrial tool engineering and sales, reported from South Bend that he saw BOTTS CROWLEY at the Old-TImers game at Notre Dame in May. JOE SI.MONIN, division engi­neer, Detroit Edison Co., has 9 grandchildren. RUSS SMITH, president, Sandusky Cement Pro­ducts Co., has seven grandchildren. \Vhen I spoke recently before the Office Executive Association In New York City, I was Introduced by JIM FOLEY '27, manager, professional services, UNI­VAC Division of Spcrry Rand Corp. 
GEORGE CRONGEYER advbed DAN BRAD­LEY that LOU NORMAN was in New York on General Motors business from Birmingham, Mich. DAN BRADLEY reported that JOHN DAVIS, who is in the furniture business in Oswego, N-Y., with his brother CHARLIE DAVIS '21, is more than kept busy as president of the Oswego Coun­try Club and as president ot the yewman Founda­tion of the State U. College at Oswego, which recently broke ground for a new Ne\^i*man Center. John adv-tscd Dan that ROGER BRF^LIN is this year's president of the Bergen County, N.J., 
Bar Assn. and is presently **ezerciuns his tmi^'ir and charming manner on the governor of iiis state in certain areas of patronage." John Dans saw Peter Conlcy of Fulton, N.Y. Peter is the son of ^LAUR]CE CONLEY, whose untimely death oc­curred in 1962. Peter is Assutant District Attomer of Oswego County, New York. 
BOTTS CROWLEY, who is with the pro base­ball division of the MacGrcgor Co., hopes to at­tend our Class get-together following the UCLA game. Botts renewed his aimuat trip to Florida and Arizona started 31 years ago during the base­ball spring training camp season In March. He \-Isited BOB BALFE '30 at West Palm Beach, where he handles the sports desk for the Post-Hmcs. Botts reported that u'hlle ivatching the Giants play the Red Sox at Scottsdalc, Ariz., the loud speaker paged Judge BERNIE ABBROTT, who is a Federal judge in San Francisco. Later Botts had lunch with Bemie. 
JOE GERAGHTY, who has been in the stock brokerage business 35 years with George D. B. Bonbright Co., gave us a good report Oii the '28 men in Rochester, N. Y. Joe's daughter. Sister Mary Josetta, Is In the Mercy Order and is teaching outside Rochester. KEN P01VERS is commissioner of elections in Rochester. Ken's wife is a member of the New York State Board of Regents. Joe sees PHIL O'CONNOR who is with Eastman Kodak Co. DON CORBETT is canf missioner of public safety and is doing a good job according to Joe. Don's son, an ND graduate, practices law in Rochester and Is followdng in hb father's footsteps in Democratic politics. JOE DEBOTT, who Is still single, is in the banking business with a savings bank In Geneva, N. Y. JIM BARRY is nmning a farm outside Geneva. JOHN LARSEN is working for the City of Geneva. Joe inquired about his old roommate CHARLIE 5HELAN5KEY, who was missed at the reunion. Charlie is examiner of municipal affairs for the 
X. Y. State Dcpt. of Audit & Control and lives In Westhampton Beach, L. I. Joe mentioned that he would like to have F. X. J. O'BRIEN send 
him a few tips on the stock market. 
Tlie vvidow of ED CUNNINGHAM wrote from Charleston, S. C , that Ed regretted he was not able to attend our 33th reunion. At the time of his death, Ed was employed by the Navy, Bureau of Yards & Docks, in the real estate procuFcmeat office of the 6th Naval District in Charleston, S. G. Ed had returned from active duty as a com­mander in the Navy in 1934. He was stricken by a fatal coronary attack on Nov. 13, 1963. Ed has one daughter who is living in Washington, D. G. 
TOM MAHON, special agent for the North­western &futual Life Insurance Co. in St. Paul, ad­vised me of the death of JACK DOYLE's wife. Tom has a son at St. Thomas College and another at St. Thomas Academy. Tom is still acti\'e in K of C work in putting on the third degree. He saw GENE O'BRKN at a stag party at Hanuns Brewery. TOM TRAUGHBER now Ixva in St. Paul where he is in legal work with the State Tax Department. HOWIE PHALIN tells me that Mahon is on the board of directors of the Merrick Com­munity Center in St. Paul. 
ED McCLARNON, manager of the claim dept. for Travelers in New York City, was elected prew­dent of the New York City Casualty Claim Afanaff­ers Council. 
GUS JENKINS, who retired from active work in the steel business a few years ago, teaches a 
CLASS OF '29 really relaxed for their 35th, with dinner and professional luncheons at the Morris Inn, plus an apparently inexhaustible oasis at Lyons Hall, where Fr. Otic Winchester held court, replenished by Jones and Stauder. Comfort so reigned that many found it difficult to tear themselves away come Simday afternoon. 
" Notrg Dame Alumnus^ AugastSepUmber^ 1964 49 
tevf Ezglish classes at the local high school in Wmiains\'nie, N. V. Gus has twelve grandchildren. Gus reports that FRANK CONNORS continues as local agent for the power companv in Arcade, 
N. Y. GORDON BENNETT is manager of the Buffalo Courier Ejcpress. Gus sees MARTY RYAN. Gus had a horrible experience recently when a couple of drunken high school students shot up iiis house at midnight. Fortunately, Gus escaped. 
In addition to HOWIE PHALIN, the foIlo^v•ing 

classmates attended the dedication of the new 
Library at Notre Dame: MIKE RICKS, S^XTDE 
SCHROEDER, ED McKEO^W, GEORGE 
COURY, LEO McINTYRE and FR. MARK 
FITZGERALD. 
I am looking forward to a large attendance 

of classmates and wives at our ninth annual '28 
Class post-game cocktail party follouing the UCLA 
same on October 17 in the Faculty Lounge in the 
tower of 0'Shaughness>' Hall. Possibly wc can ar­
range hr HOWIE PHALIN to escort us foUou-Jng 
the party to \'iew the enormous mural he presented, 
which I Understand is ver\' impressive as one 
approaches the new Memorial Library. 
In addition to news from each of the vice-presi­dents which Has been included in this column, I have notes from our Class President, BERNIE OARBER with whom wc spent a pleasant evening recently at dinner and later attending the Lipiz­2aner Horse Show at Madison Square Garden. Bemie uTites as follows: ''With Kae and LARRY CULLINEY, my wife and I attended the Con­necticut Vallo' Club XD Night Dinner in April, hearing Father Hesburgh, who had Just helped inaugurate Yale's President Brewster. John L., eldest of 5ve Cullincy children, earned his B.-\ at Yale this year and will begin a teaching fello\*-­ship at Duke U. in September. He is specializing in marine bioIog>'. At the Yankee Silversmith din­ner, we talked u-ith JOHN ROBINSON. One of Bis Freshman Hall roommates, BILL O'NEIL, is on tlie board of trustees for the Robinson School, "West Hartford. The fourth '28 man at the dinner -was JOHN P. SMITH, whom I had last seen at the South Bend airport following our 35th re­union. If memory- still serv'es, John is director of personnel at Pratt & Whitney and lives in West Hartford. Mentioning an inspection visit to St. Michael's College, Vt,, Larr>- told me I should have scea ART AIITlGUY, gental classmate in Burlington, and also "JOE" FRANCIS CANNON '27. old NYC friend of the '28 group. Joe, a lawyer, is also county clerk of Rutland County-. 
"In May, CULLlS'EY was recharging his bat­teries by a month's rest from FDIC duties and xoaklng notes for a humorous book he is about to write and illustrate. 
"GEORGE CRONGEYER of Metropolitan In­surance is the nc^v secretarj- for the Manhattan division of the NT> Club of NY. His strength for handling visitors to the AVorld's Fair was gainrd by a late xvjnter \-acalion in Europe, where he customarily abandoned his Volkswagen just any­where in favor of walking." 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, Secretary Class of 1928 

From the Alumni Office: 
A catalogue of the ubiquitous LOU BUCKLEY'S latest actirities, compiled from \'arious sources, in­cludes: appearance on radio and TV in New York •on the NBC "Direct Line" shoiv as director of the New York Board of Emploj-ment Security*, discussing the President's Task Force on Manpower Conser\*a­tion report, "One-Third of a Nation," with Col. Paul Akst of selective ser\ice, particularly as it ^ccts retraining of military- rejectees (53 per cent in NYC); an article on "The Job Market, 19G4-75" in Interracial Review; another article, "Retraining: An Answ-cr?" in a special unemployment issue of the Jesuit business magazine Enterprise; and a piece on "Non-White Income and Emplo\-mcnl" in Social Digest. 
DR. DAN BRADLEY, back from running a mis­sion clinic in Guatemala, sent requests to a lot of dassmatcs for news, but his note to ED McCOR-MACK in NYC was returned with the notation that £ d bad moved and left no address. Can anybody supply an address for Ed? 
Judge BOB GRANT of South Bend's US District Goiul was elected to a fifth consecutive term as secretary of the Indiana Masonic Home Foundation, Inc. 
REV. ROBERT \V. ^VOOD^VARD CSC, retired after 13 years as director of military affairs at NT), was given a special citation for his contribution to ROTO at the University's commissioning ceremonies for 218 new officers in June. 
JOSEPH R. SIMONIN was just named head of Detroit Edison's new mechanical engineering de­ngtt division. With the company since graduation, 
SEVEN 0*BRIENS, all acolytes at St. Catherine's Church, Mountain Lakes, N.J., are the unrelated progeny of Bill and Tom O'Brien '44, classmates originally hailing from Long Island: (from left) Kevin Michael, Jimmy Tommy, Bill, Terry, Danny and another Ke\-in Alichael. Numbers 1, 2, 4 and 6 belong to Bill, and 3, 5 and 7 belong to Tom. The picture was taken last year before Tom's eight children and Bill's five beat the grade school basketball team with the girls 
(not shown) acting as cheerleaders. More All-O'Brien games were expected. 
Joe became power plant design supervisor in 1950 
and headed meclianical engineering in the design 
and ser\'ices dept. at the time of his latest appoint­
ment. He and his wife Julia have one son, two 
married daughters and eight grandchildren. 
A final note from Pres. BERNIE GARBER: 
"JOE BREIG is the first man to say he will at­tend our 40th Anniversary* Reunion in 1968. I \Tsitcd with Mar>- and Joe B. at the Catholic Press Assn. meeting in Pittsburgh in May. Their daugh­ter was to be professed in .August in the Sisters of Mercy. Joe was discussion leader on the topic "The Council, the Press and Tlicology." 
"Last call to the class of *28 Party, O'Shaugh­ncssy Tower on campus after the UCLA game on Oct. 17." 
•29 Larry Stauder Engineering BIdg. Notre Dame, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

ROBERT N. ALT, WILLIAM A. BISER, RAYMOND K. BREEN, WILLIAM E. BROWN, FRANCIS J. BUCKLEY, JOHN T. BURKE, HENRY L. BURNS, VINCENT F. CARNEY, JOHN F. COLANGELO, SAM A. COLARUSSO, IRV CORCORAN, WILLIAM F. CRAIG, WIU LARD E. CROTTY, GERALD J. CROWLEY, JAMES M. CURRY, J. HARVEY DALY, ED­MONO a DcBAENE, EDWARD F. DONOHOE, JOHN W. DORGAN, THOMAS F. FERRITER, DAVID A. FIELDS, FRANCIS M. FLYNN, WIL­LARD C. FORTIER, JAMES T. GALLAGHER, a*SPER R. GRATHWOHL, J. WALTER GREER, GERALD R. GRIFFIN, GAYLORD P. HAAS, LOUIS F. HANEY, RICHARD E. HAUGH, RAYMOND M. HILLL\RD, JOHN V. HINKEL, LEO F. HUGHES, KARL A. KASCHEWSKI, JOHN T. KEARNS, JAMES P. KENNEDY, ANTHONY J. KOPECKY, EDWIN E. LEACH, JOSEPH V. LENIHAN, JOHN J. LYONS, GEORGE J. McDONELL, NORMAN J. McLEOD, FRANCIS M. METRAILER, FRANCIS D. MEYER, EUGENE A. .\nLLIFF, LAURENCE A. MOORE, PETER J. MORGAN, ELMO E. MOYER, WIL­LIAM L. NEFF, LOUIS F. NIECER, REV. JAMES E. NORTON CSa JOHN N. PERKINS, 
L. C. PETERSCHMIDT, STEPHEN R. RICH­TARSIC, PAUL C. ROSS, OLIVER F. SCHELL, ROLAND G. SCHLAGER, CLETUS P. SCHNEID­ER, JOSEPH G. SMIETANKA, LARRY STAU­DER, JOSEPH A. SVETE, JAMES W. TOBIN, ROBERT M. TROTTER, FRED J. WAGNER, ROBERT P. >VILLIAMS, REV. OTIS S. WIN­CHESTER, JAMES J. YATES. 
NOTE: The after-game get-togetlicr for the Class of '29 is scheduled for Oct. 24 after the Stanford game. 
The deadline for copy ior this issue is im­mediately after the Class Reunion. We \a\\ or­ganize the reunion nevs's and use most of it in the next issue. We will only state that with the possible exception of percentage attendance there were no regrets. The Friday, Saturday and Sunday functions were uniformly top level due in no small part to great guys who have grown into greater guysl 
Among those who had expected to attend but had to change their plans were: MICKEY McMAHON of G. A. Sporl and Co. Inc., New Orleans; and fellow Class vice-presidents BOB VOGELfSTOE of Detroit and JOE ^VHALEN of Des Moines; as %>ell as President FRANCIS JO.NES. A report of the nominating committee's recommendations and of the election for ID&^-GQ will appear in the next issue of the ALUM.N'US. 
Vie missed GEORGE BEA.MER, South Bend at­torney, who had planned to attend as had JOHNj . 
R. BRO^VN of Racine, Wis.; and LOUIS S.5> CLEMENTS of Owcnsboro, Ky., where he is in his 16th year as field auditor for the Kentucky Department of Revenue. Wc regret that Mrs. Louise Clements, wife of his brother FRED CLEMENTS '26, passed away Feb. 1, 1964, in South Bend. (Louis, JACK ELDER was here look­ing for you.) 
BILL CRONIN of Oakland, Calif., had flight reservations for arrival Thursday evening. JACK KEARNS and LOU NEIZER and others were anti­cipating a special visit. Fellow engineer KARL MARTERSTECK was dispatched to a special as­signment in Buffalo, which cancelled his reunion plans, but you noted in the June ALUMNUS that Karl planned to return in August as fttst lay speaker for the Big Retreat. ^ 
JAMES E. DIGAN (the recent groom) and FRANKLIN DOAN of Chicago, as well as WAL­TER DONNELLY of New York, were expected and missed as were MAURY FADELL of Gary, GENE GALDABINI and ORSON DAUSMAN of Indian­apolis (we had EE's back Including WALTER GREER). 
We looked forward to seeing JOHN GILTINON, Chicago attorney and KENNETH KONOP of Kansas City; HUGH McMANIGAL, Perrine, Fla., and JOSEPH MORRELL of Brooklyn, all of whom had planned to be witli us; as had WALT MUL­FUR, Sault Ste. Marie, Canada, and RUSS O'BRIEN of Valparaiso, Ind., and JERRY OUEL­LETTE of Miami and JOHN F. SWEENY of Detroit. g\ 
If you are still with me you will wonder how ^ we could approach an attendance of eighty with­out the above-mentioned 24 top prospects, and another like number who had replied this spring that they had conflicts t%'hich made it impractical for them to expect to attend. Let us quote a typical letter of intent, that of FRANK HURLEY, Massena, N.Y., who wrote **Jtist a few answers to some of your questions. I do not think that I will be able to make the 35th Reunion. My wife and I really enjoyed the Reunion in 1954. I will always remember how wonderful DON PLUNKETT and his wife were. How unfortunate it is that wonderful men like Hon and other '29ezs have left us at such an early age. 
"We have seven children, ranging in ages from 31 down to eight. Our oldest son and two daughters 
©

SO Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
have graduated from college. At the present time 

^)u r fourth youngster Tom is a sophomore at Clark-son College. Up here in Northern New York tlie big sport is Hockey — pccwcc high school and college. Clarkson was one of the top teams in the East this year. They won the £GAC Championship in Madison Square Garden, N.Y. City, at Christ­mas time. They lost to a wonderful Catholic team, Providence, 6 to 5 in the semi-finals early this month. Our Tom had a wonderful year as a sophomore. Sometimes dads say too much when their sons are atheletes — so I have enclosed one of many clippings that we have of Tom. 
"Joe B.\RNETT, my old roommate, contacted me last week relating to the 35lh Reunion, CLAYT TVO, a '29 graduate, lives here in Massena. At 

Ath c present time Clayt Is the receiver of txxcs and assessments for the Town of Masscna. 
"I started this as a note — but I do wish that all of the *29ers enjoy the best of health and have a wonderful time at their 35th Reunion — I still may be able to make it." (And here are quotes from the clipping; *'Tom Hurley Is fourth-rang­ing scorer for the Knights of Clarkson. . . . with 13 goals and 17 assists in 19 games. . . . Clarkson Coach Len Ceglarski was especially pleased with Tom^s theft of the puck during a sudden-death overtime against Harx'ard and the winning tally to give Clarkson an important 4-3 win.*') 
Thank you FRANCIS MEYER and JIM KEN­NEDY and others who took many pictures. (Will 

•yo u kindly send us prints for use in the .ALUM­NUS and/or later promotional mailings? . . . wc have 1735 days to make our 40lh Reunion the greatest.) 
Thank you, JOHN LAUGHLIN, and JIM ARM­STRONG and staff, for making your local com­mittee look good. 
Just a very brief preview of next Issuers *29 column. We will trv to have quotes from WALTER GREER, DR. STEPHEN RICHTARSIC, NORMAN McLEOD and others who were back for the first time, 
REV. MICHAEL MULCMRE CSC '17 was elected honorary president. JOE LENIH.AN, 10 Bingham Hill Circle, Rumson, N.J., is our 1964-69 president, and REV. OTIS S. WINCHESTER Is our chaplain. You will be hearing from them. Otic's address Is 2968 Meadowbrook Blvd., Cleveland Hts., Ohio. 

0 RENOTE: Will we see you Oct. 24 at the post-Stanford game '29 get-together? 
From the Alumni Ofiice: Congratulations to EDMOND C, DeBAENE. Ed was recently promoted by Detroit Edison to as­sistant chief of the transmission and distribution division of the general engineering dcpt. Formerly underground standards engineer, £d has been with Edison since graduation in EE. He's active In half a dozen engineering societies, A clipping was sent in by BOTTS CROWLEY on a fellow Cinclnnatlan. B. J. (BARNEY) HUG-GERj from the Enquirer. City manager for Amer­ican Airlines, Barney reminisces in an Intcr\'icw about aWation 35 years ago when he started in the ^airline business. In those days, he recalls, the ^specialties were crop dusting, aerial photography and stunting in flying circuses, with passenger ser\'icc unheard of. 
•n n Dcverc Plimkctt O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRiVNTS 

T. L. CRONIN, VINCENT J. McCUE, TIM­OTHY J, TOOMEY. 
»
From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to REV. WILLIAM T. CRAD­DICK CSC, assistant superior of the Holy Cross Fathers, Indiana Province, %vho celebrated his 25th anniversary' of ordination on June 24 with a Solemn Mass In Sacred Heart Church. He was assisted bv two classmates, FRS. JOSEPH KEHOE and VINCENT THILMAN CSC. An architecture grad, Fr. Craddick served as a theology prof and prefect of religion before a 12-ycar hitch as master of novices at Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn. Lucilc Haslcy, wife of Prof. LOU HASLEY, has another book to follow Reproachfully Yours, The Mouse Htmter and Saints & Snapdragons. Entitled Mind if I DifTer?, it is a collection of letters between Mrs, Haslcy and a Unitarian friend on the ecumenical movement and the difTer­ences and similarities between faiths. Mrs. Haslcy recently shared a reception and autographing party ^ t South Bend's Aquinas Book Shop with Peg 
Boland, widow of the late JOE BOLAND '27, whose book, Don't PanIC} Mother, was recently published, following Valiant ^Voman and Joe Bo­land, Notre Dame Man, Lou, incidentally, is packing for Innsbruck, Austria, to supervise the first ND sophomore year abroad along with FR, THOMAS CNGLETON CSC. He gave a talk on American literary humor at Our Lady of the Lake Sem­inary in Indiana last spring. 
THOMAS F. KENNE,\LLY, insurance broker for Home Life Insurance Co. and a former varsity quarterback, was named ND Man of the Year by the Central Jersey Club on ND Night. Tom, who lives in MIddlebush, N.J., coached at Manhattan College and Rutgers after graduation, then scr\-ed as Nciv Brunsirick recreation director before be­coming an insurance broker. He's a past president of the Central Jersey ND Club and the New Jersey Exchange Club, A native of Waterbury, Conn., Tom is married to the former Alice McNamara, also of U''atcrbury. They lia\"e two cJiildrcn, a married daughter and a son, Thomas D., a senior at ND. 

Indiana Sen. MARSHALL F. KI2ER failed In his bid for the gubernatorial nomination at the State Democratic Convention despite strong labor backing, but he held on as Democratic chairman for the 3rd Congressional District. 
Congratulations to Prof. WALTER M, LANG­FORD, back on the job with fencing and modern languages after a couple of years in Chile as di­rector of the ND Peace Corps project there. Walter's son, REV. JEROME J. LrVNGFORD OP '59, was ordained as a dominlcan priest in Du-
FRANCIS A. (BILL) FINK '30, spot­lighted before in his 29-ycar tenure as managing editor of Our Sunday Visitor, the national weekly, was recently the subject of a profile in the Catholic Press Annual written by his son Jack '33, editor of Family Digest and in charge of outside magazine printing at CSV. Jack's lead was on his father's two years as president of the Catholic Press Assn., 1950-52, when his testimony before a congres­sional hearing helped presert'e preferen­tial 2nd and 3rd class postal rates for the religious, fraternal and educational press. During the hearing Bill was addressed as "Father Fink" and replied that the senator was technically correct since he'd been a father nine times. Two other sons, James and William, are products of the ND Graduate School. 
buque, la., last spring and offered his First Maa% at Holy Cross Church in South Bend. Anothtr son, Walter Jr. '55, is an Air Force captain sta­tioned in England. Walt has been spealting locally-about Latin America and recently offered his serv­ices to the local Spanish-spealcing migrant worker program. 
FR. ED FITZGERALD CSC of the Mission Band recently visited Rome and enjoyed the hos­pitality of the ND Club. AVhile visiting at Terrejan AFB near Madrid in Spain, he met a CAPTADf D'ALELIO '58, son of Dr. G. F. d'AIelio of the ND chemistry dept. He's in S.\C on temporary duty-there, his home base being Pease AFB, N.H. He doubles as a crew member and public info officer. 
FRANCIS A. (BILL) FINK was recently the-subject of a feature profile by his son JACK FINK '57 in the Catholic Press Annual. Managing editor of Our Sunday Visitor, the national Catholic weekly. Bill has been a leading force in Catholic journalism for 34 years. 
James T. Doylc 
•31 805 W. Arcadia Ave. Arcadia, Cal. 
REUNION REGISTRANT J.ACK SAUNDERS. 

From the Alumni OHice: 
JIM McQUAID and his talented missus, Marie, made a trip to San Francisco In the spring and received a surprise merchandising award from the National Assn. of College Stores at the convention of that organization. Sent fay Vincenncs U., where­thcy operate the Old Post Bookstore, the McQuaids didn't even have a hotel reser\'atioa, but they made It with the help of other conventioners, winning-a 5100 prize and $25 from the kitty. 
FR. .MAURICE M. FITZGERALD, C.S.P.. as di­rector of the Paullst Fathers Home Study School ia Chicago, recently sent a long letter to friends ex­plaining that the course had returned to Paidlst auspices after having been appropriated by the Chi­cago Archdiocese In recent years as an ofSa'al CCD information program. Father Fitz reported that of over 70,000 taking the basic course, more than 18,000 went on to further study of the Faith. He thanked the lay Catholic press for their moral and financial support. 
The almanac publisher and secretary of the Maine ND Club, R.AY GEIGER, was recently elected to the presidency of the International Board of Advertbing Gift Manufacturers—a group repre­sented by one member from each of nine countries. Meeting recently at Poland Spring, Me., with Geiger Bros, as host, the group will meet next at Dalkeith,, near Edinburgh, Scotland, 
The O'Brien Corp., through President JEROME 

J. CROWLEY, recently made a contribution to Notre Dame's Center for the Study of Man in Con­temporary Society, a project of DR. GEORGE SHUSTER '15. The 89-year-old paint firm made the-grant as "seed money" toivard other corporation and foundation grants to the program. 
DR. EDWARD A. COOMES of the ND physics, dept. recently received a $20,000 grant from the Cambridge Research Laboratories, Air Force Office-of Aerospace Research, for a study of the production and surface physics of thermally equilibrated slngle­thermlonic emitcrs. And we all know what that means! 
.ANTHONY R. SCHREINER has been appointed industrial relations director of the Standard Forg­ings Corp., East Chicago, Ind. Also responsible for the safety and plant security programs, Tony was formerly industrial relations manager for the Com­bustion Engineering Co. East Chicago plant. He's a. member of the East Chicago Chamber of Commerce-education committee and a director of the East Chicago Bo>-5 Club, He's married to a younger sbter of FRANK B. BLOE.MER, JR. '22 of Louls­rille, Ky., and .Aripcka, Fla. 
Recently spoUIghted DR. RICHARD R. B.\KER has taken over the philosophy dept. at the U. oF Dayton as Interim chairman. He's a member of the­University's Academic Council, a top level policy group, and Is a well known radio and television! personality. Dick's oldest daughter Judith was just graduated from U. of D. and another daughter-Kaihryn is a junior, while three younger children arc at home. 
DICK McGOLDRICK recently purchased Bos­ton's Handschumacher Corp., a meat packing firm^ Dick bought the company from classmate JACK. SAUNDERS and is now president, treasurer and di­rector. A food executive for many years, Dick vra» sales manager for Handschumacher before becimi­ing marketing director for Boston's Fulham Bros. Recently he was vice-pres. and gen. mgr. of Ken­nedy & Co,, Inc. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 51 
CLASS OF '34 Reunion had the record for the most Class picture absentees. It's rumored that Moose Krause and several others got lost after the previous night's soiree at the South Bend Country Club, but the truth is that the 30-year Class didn't seem to be in a hurry to get anywhere—except maybe breakfast, lunch, dinner and the Howard Hall bar. 
years. Tighe is now residing at RR 2, Harpers COWART, GILBERT H. COYNE, RUDOLPH C. 
James K. Collins 

•32 Ferr>-, \Vest Va. Pat expects to be in Ncvv York CRNKOVIC, EDWIN J. CUNNINGHAM, 2982 Torrington Rd. soon and I am sure he will have plenty to report THONUS C. DAVID, MATHEW C. DAVIS-9 Shatcr Heights, Ohio from the Chicago area. COURT, JOHN A. DEVINE, DONALD F. DU­
CHARLIE CONLEY was first to send us news GAN, WILLIAM M. DUSCH, VINCENT J. From the Alumnt OIIicc: of CHARLIE RILEVs death, whicli was reported FEHLIG, JOHN F. FISHER, HUGH F. FITZ­Prof. FRANK O'MALLEY had a close call in the 
in the last edition of the ALUMNUS. Charlie GERALD, EDWARD J. FITZMAURICE, DAVID spring and was Iiospitalized for several weeks, but is busy now with the Philadelphia Club group in J. FROEHLICH, JOHN J. GLEASON, THO.\L\S now he seems to be in shape for another 30 aca­arranging a trip back to Notre Dame \ia Chicago R. GRIMES, EDMUND W. HAFNER, JOHN demic years. the weekend of Oct. 15-19 for the ND-UCLA R. HAGAN, ROBERT H. HALPIN, JO­DOMIXIC XAPOLIT/\XO not only continues game. He suggests a class reunion of those who SEPH E. HANRATTY, J. CHARLES HAYES, with the Bengal Bouts, intramural boxing and \'ari-may be going to the Naiy game at Philadelphia CLARENCE T. HELLWIG, D. BERNARD HEN­ous speaking engagements on ph\-sical fitness, but on October 31. Tliose who expect to be in the NESSY, ROBERT E. HUGH, FR,\NCIS J. JEHLE, he and new basketball coacJi JOHNNY DEE M8 Philadelphia area for the game are requested to ROBERT K. KELLEY, J. WALTER KENNEDY, have teamed up to give the ND basketball team a cither contact Charlie at 100 East Turnbull Ave­ERWIN J. KIEP, HENRY E. KIJEWSKI, thorough grounding in boxing. Reported in Sports nue, Havertown, Pa., or this office, so that we GEORGE W. KOHS, EDWARD F. LEE, JOHN 
Illustrated, the new regime is supposed to increase can make some sort of arrangements to meet J. MCLAUGHLIN, PAUL A. MANOSKI, ED-speed, coordination, footwork and all the skills the either on the morning of the game in advance of 
WARD F. MANSFIELD, CURTIS K. MILL­
roundball game demands. kickoff or between halves. 
HEAM , KENNETH L. MONTIE, MELVIN G. 
The National Export Expansion Council, headed GEORGE ROHRS* second daughter Judy will MEYERS, EDWARD M. MORAN, JAMES R. by NEIL C. HURLEY, JR., is participating in the be graduated from Manhattannlle College in Neu* MORRISON, RAYMOND J. MORRISSY, REV. O U.S, Commerce Dept.'s **Target 10,000" program, York in June. George is now a grandfatlier for JAMES MOSCOW, FRrVNCIS F. O'BRIEN, tr>*ing to persuade 10,000 new companies to enter 
the second time. JAMES J. 0'BRIE.\, JOHN C. O'CONNOR, the export field this year. Neil's cfTorts ^vcrc re­Had dinner with MARSHAL McW'ENEY at the REV. EDWARD L. O'.MALLEY, LAWRENCE ported extensively in the New York Times. 
March meeting of the Notre Dame Club of New T. O'NEILL, PHILIP W. OTT, JOHN F. PAV-York on the occasion of .\ra Parseghian's initial LICK, JOSEPH E. QUARTUCH, CHARLES F. visit with the local alumni. QUIN.X, NORBERT H. RASCHER, HARVEY P. 
John A, Hoyt, Jr. 

ROCKWELL, EDWARD J. RYAN, HENRY F. 
•33 Gillespie & O'Connor From the Alumni Office: SCHAFFER, NORBERT J. SCHENKEL, ELI J. 
342 Madison Ave. ANDREW E. O'KEEFE has been appointed to SHAHEEN, WILLIAM A. SUEHR, FREDERICK the staff of the U.S. PubHc Health Scr\-icc*s Robert R. SULLIVAN, RAY.MOND W. TROY, JOSEPH 
New York, N.Y. 

A. Taft Sanitar>' Engineering Center, Cincinnati, C. VASCHAK, LOUIS W. VETTEL, JOSEPH T. 
212 MU2-1170 

serx-ing with the chemical research and develop­VOEGELE, AUGUST VON BOECKLIN, ED­ment section of the PHS Division of Air Polulion WARD F. VYZRAL, JOHN R. WALLACE, World's Fair Phone No. laborator>' of engineering and phx-sical sciences. FRANK E. WIDGER, JOHN N. WOLL.\CK, Formerly manager of research for Philip Morris, JOHN P. YOUNGEN. 
212 

Inc., Andy directed a program of smoke micro­
MU 2-1170 

analysis and published 12 scientific papers. A New From the Alumn! Office: Jersey native, he got his master's degree from 
ED MANSFIELD, now of Denver, Colo., will take rister, was among the first to visit the AVorld's Philadelphia's CHARLIE CONLEY \%-as responsi­
PETE CONNELLY, distinguished Rochester bar­Brookl>'n Polytcch. 
pen in hand again as Class Secretary* starting witli the next issue. Ed succeeds veteran ED CAREY of Fair. While in Nc\v York he took the occasion ble for the information of JACK GLEASON's '36) Cleveland, elected at the 30lh .Anniversary Reunion to see the "Mels" open up their first game at the record-breaking check distribution for the Veterans' 
under the expert management of BOB CAHILL. 
new Shea Stadium opposite the Fairgrounds. In Administration in the last issue. One of the origina­The Class was rather secluded at the South Bend his round of the Town he had breakfast with us tors of the 1963 Fr. Corby Memorial Mass at the Country Club, so Ed u*ill have to supply the details and then went crosstown to have brunch with Gettysburg Centennial, Charlie is still trying to get 
unknown to the Alumni Oflicc. Many thanks to BILL LYNCH. While in toun he talked to JLM the Post Office Dcpt. to issue a Knute Rocknc com­Carey, and best wishes to MansBeld, who's one of the planners for the Denver ND-Air Force festivities ROSS at General D\'namics and tried to reach memorative stamp. 
FRANK McGEE in Bridgeport. Pete looked fine Reelected president of the Catholic Interracial in October. 
and x^nds his best to his manv friends. 
Council of South Bend was JAMES P. DANEHY A nxcnt note from FR. FREDERICK SCHMIDT MS *34, PhD *36, xvho guided the CIC through 
Globetrotter ED KRr\U5E made a couple of local CSC informs us that his new Post Office is St. such activities as the Teacliers Institute on Race 
appearances between national trips for tlie Athletic 'William's Mexican Missions, Round Rock, Tex. Relations, National Home \'isit Day and a Freedom 
& Convocation Center—one a testimonial for Dart­786G4. Father continues his priestly career in the Parade. Dr. Danchy also got a $40,000 grant from 
mouth's £d Ilcaley and another at an athletic ^ missions and our daily prayers should be with him the U.S. Public Health Scr\icc for his chemical re-
dinner for St. Mar>''s of the Assumption School to bobter his hard days and long nights. scarcli at ND. In 1961-62 Jim was a Fulbrighl lec­
(perhaps bccatise his sccretar\* is a parishioner). JOHN FRIEL, upon his return to Washington turer in chcmi5tr>* at University College, Cork, 
Nioose was also seen at the Rocknc Fcsti\'al in July from a trip to the Pacific Northwest, wrote us an Ireland. 
at Cedar Point, O. 
interesting note that he had \-isited with LEO Very Rev. RICHARD H. SULLIV^\N CSC, CUMMINGS while in Seattle and with JOHN.XY president of Massadiusetts' Stonehill College, has 
Edward F. Mansfield 

ENGLISH while in Tacoma. John also adnscd been appointed provincial of the Holy Cross Fathers' that when he attempted to reach NATT Mc-•34 523 W. Hillside Eastern Pro%"ince. DOUGALL in Portland, he learned that Natt was San Mateo, Calif. now living in California. Perhaps this news item 
Franklyn Hochreitcr 

regarding Natt will prompt a note from him. John REUNION REGISTRANTS Friel is still with the Interstate Commerce Com­HARRY W. BLACK, EUGENE S. BLISH, •35 702 Scarlet Dr. mission in Washington and in his traveb he sees LEONARD A. CACCIATORE, M. ROBERT CA-Towson, Md. many Notre Dame men. HILL, THOMAS E. CAREY, CHARLES H. 
PAT CROWLEY inquired from Chicago recently CARROLL, PATRICK J. CARROLL, JOSEPH REUNION REGISTRANTS as to the present address of TIGHE WOODS, who A. CAULFIELD, ROBERT C. CHENAL, JOSEPH JOHN QUIRK, JOHN LOGAN, JAMES Mac-served as Class Secretary with distinction for many C. CLARK, JOHN E. CLAUDER, PARIS N. 
DEvnr. 
© 

 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
From the Alumni Office: 

I FRANK HOCHREITER rides again. Hoch just penned a ncivslcttcr and questionnaire to the Class, and \vc expect his recent marriage may have rein­stated the old vigor so absent during his mourning of the past couple of years. 
Tlic Class' foremost member at this moment seems to be Congressman AMLLIAM E. MILLER, Repub­lican candidate for vice-president of the United States, tlie personal choice of Sen. Barry Goldwater as a running male. Congratulations to Bill, his wife and his four children. Bill even enjoyed a brief fling as a presidential candidate. A keynoter at the ND Mock Republican Convention which nominated Henry Cabot Lodge and Mark Hatfield, Bill was the subject of a "Draft Bill Miller for President" 

Jdrive at Washington & Lee U., led by R/VYMOND Rx\EDY '63, a law student there. 
It's a big year for jubilees. Eight Holy Cross priests celebrated the 25th annivcrsar>- of their ordi­nation in June. FR. PAUL BEICHNER, dean of the XD Graduate school for the past 12 years, has a PhD from Yale and is an authority on mcdic\*al literature. FR. G. a\R L HAGER, head of the music dcpt. for eight years, is a former teacher of English and composed various musical works. FR. BERNARD NIEMIER, FR. LEO WOJCIECHOW­SKI and FR. a\SIMIR GRABARZ, all South Bend natives, have combined teaching and pastoral work and were feted as representing the Polish Church in America at festivities in St. Casimir's 

^parish in South Bend. FR. EDMUND aVMPERS, now chaplain and faculty member at Nazareth Col­lege, Midi., had a jubilee reception In South Bend, where he has done most of his pastoral work. And FR. VINCENT THILMAN, now a pastor in AVater­town. Wis., returned to South Bend, where he was pastor of St. Augustine's Negro parish for 19 years, to offer his Jubilee Mass. 
ELWOOD F. CURTIS, who started with the Class before completing his education at Dartmouth, has been elected president of Dccrc & Co., MoHnc, 111. farm implement manufacturers. He joined Deere as an accountant and was named executive vice-presi­dent in 1959. He and his wife Helen have three sons. 
Clippings continue to roll in on JOHNNY JOR-D/VN's retirement as ND basketball coach. All '35crs should have so many friends. 
I^jf Larry Palkovic 207 North Market Street Johnsto^vn, N.Y. 

C 
From the Alumni Office: BRO. DOMINIC ELDER CSC, formerly master of novices at the Holy Cross Brothers' Rolling Prairie novitiate, has gone to Louisville, Ky., as director of the new CSC contingent there. Bro. Dom has a master's and doctorate from ND. Congratulations to VA Administrator JOHN S. GLEASON JR. On top of his new record for the distribution of the GI insurance "dividend," mcn< tioned in the last Issue, Jack was recognized by the "^niversity in June with an honorary LL.D degree, c's a decorated combat vet with the reser\e rank of major general, was formerly v-p. of Chicago's 1st National Bank and national commander of the American Legion. 
CLIFFORD F. BROWN is running hard for judge of the Ohio 6th District Court of Appeals. Cliff is serving his 7th year as Huron County judge and has practiced law in Norwalk, O., since 1938. He and his wife Katherinc have four adopted children, and a son, Stephen, was killed by an automobile in 1961. Cliff hopes his classmates will alert all alumni 

and friends in Huron, Erie, Sandusky, Ottawa, AVood, Lucas, Fulton and Williams Counties. Tliat includes such towns as Edgerton, Br>-an, Montpcller, Wauscon, Swanton, Port Clinton, Oak Harbor, 
C 
llraore. Bowling Green, Pembcr\-ille, Fremont, Gib­nburg. Green Springs, Clyde and Belle\-ue. Class Treasurer JERRY VOGEL, South Bend real estate man and proprietor of the River Park Theater, is a proud guy these days. His efforts as River Park chairman of the campaign to make the Indiana U. Center a four-year college have borne fruit; the South Bend I.U. campus Is chang­ing over now. Also Jerry and his wife Leah are proud of their oldest son Joe, now a junior at the I.U. campus in Bloomington, an honor student who has decided to major In economics. Starting In Denmark, Joe took a grand tour of Europe tliis summer and expected to drop in on VINCE McALOON '34 and his ND Hospitality Center In Rome. 
LARRY PALKOVIC is still waiting to hear from you guys who were so uncommunicative with JOE WALDRON. Write today! 
Joseph P. Quinn 
•37 
P. O. Box 275 
Lake Lcnapc Andover, N.J. 

From the Alumni Office: FR. BOB LOCHXER CSC causht up on his correspondence this summer by regaling all his friends with a three-page single-spaced letter re­counting all his e-^pericnccs since January at Port­land U. and thereabouts, lie mentioned a visit to classmate MAURY SCHAFER in Seattle, lunching in the Space Xccdie in January. The letter is full of exotic tidbits from his traveb throughout the Northwest and his Portland duties (he tvas recently named liaison officer for the Peace Corps) and he hasn't lost his nostalgia for Hawaii (on UXD Night he pumped Hawaii-bound JI.\l ARMSTRONG). You can write him at the U. of Portland, Zip Code 97203. 
Another CSC, FR. XED JOYCE, left his stand as XD executive vccp long enough for a world tour and some UXD Xight appearances in the East. He's pictured with some Jersey classmates in this issue, and another classmate, JOHX Cx\CKLEY (Zeke is 
ANTHONY S. KUHARICH '35, '41 For Welfare and Citizenship, Nine Lives 
In a recent issue of Every Week Sunday magazine of the Hammond Times the lead story, "Why Probation?" was an interi'iew witli Tony Kuharich, chief federal proba­tion officer for the northern district of Indiana. With his impassioned defense of the presentence investigation and rehabili­tation through probation and parole, his white-hot anger at state courts which ig­nore these devices, he impressed the inter­viewer as "a man who really lives his job." 
This should give Tony as many lives as a cat, for in addition to his many duties as a rehabilitation worker and professor of criminologj- he has taken on several other j'obs related to youth, religion and citizen­ship. This year alone he ^vas elected presi­dent of the Hammond Youth League, president of the Calumet Region ND Club and a board member of Catholic Social Services. 
One of four children of Jugoslav immi­grants, Tony preceded famed brother Joe at Notre Dame. With his .'^B and MA 
Notre 

development vcep at Georgian Court College) joined him on another occasion, but no word from JOR QUINN. 
R. PARKER SULLIVAN, mentioned in the last issue as president and chief exec for General Tele­phone of California, has been named to the ND Advisory Council for the College of Business Ad­ministration. Parker and his wife and daughter live in Pacific Palisades, Calif. Speaking of telephones, JOSEPH M. HUGHES has been named general accounting manager for Indiana Bell in Indianapolis. Joe has been with the company since 1939. 
President Johnson recently nominated ANTHONY FR,\NCIS O'BOYLE of Forty Fort, Pa., to a higher grade in tlie Foreign Service. Tony is serving the State Dept. in the sensitive area of arms control and disarmament. He ser\-cd overseas in the Philip­pines. Both Tony and his wife, the former Mary Margot Regan, arc former high school teachers. 
ED FISCHER of the communication arts faculty has been busy in the field of films. Ed lectured on techniques of writing dociunentaries last April at the U. of Oklahoma and served for the fourth con­secutive year on the jury of the American Film Festival in New York. He also was elected to the board of directors of the University Film Producers 
in education and history, respectively, he seemed destined to continue as a teacher of social studies in South Bend's Catholic high schools, but a corollary interest in youth rehabilitation, developing when he transferred to teach underprivileged chil­dren at the CSC's Gibault School for Boys in Terre Haute, Ind., led to a master's degree in sociology from Loyola U. And his subsequent efforts in that field led to an LL.D. from .\tlanta Law School in 1961 and such other honors as the Good Government .\ward of the Hammond Jay­cees in 1957, selection as Man of the Year by the Hammond Exchange Club in 1959 and '60 and by the Notre Dame Club in 1962. 
Tony left Gibault in 1940 to become chief probation officer of South Bend's City Court and to marry nturse Irene Mich of South Bend. (Their son Martin is now a junior at Bishop Noll Institute, Ham­mond.) He resigned in 1943 for two years as a special agent in .\rmy Intelligence^ and his proficiency in Middle European languages (Croatian, Serbian, German and Slovak) letl to a post\var term in occupied Germany as principal welfare officer for the United States Relief and Rehabilitation -•Vdministration, working in displaced per­sons camps. Returning to the US late in 1946, he was appointed to his present position by a fellow aliunnus. Federal Judge Luther Swygert, and he now works with NTD Judges Bob Grant and George Beamer. His investigative and reform work with confessed criminals, parolees and proba­tioners takes him all over Northern Indiana, and he consults with assistants in Gary, Fort Wayne and South Bend. Since most of his clients are unskilled in anything but crime, rehabilitation often involves Tony's expert guidance in education and job placement. His own teaching is now on the college level, in sociology, criminology and juvenile delinquency. Since 1953 he has been an assistant professor at Valpa­raiso University, and he has also instructed at the Calumet centers of Purdue and St. Joseph College. 
Tony is an officer or member of a dozen professional societies and councils dealing with social work, correction and youth, be­sides his work as an organizer and coach of various boys' baseball leagues and levicw­ing books for several professional journals. 
Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 5? 
Assn. and signed to do a. film script on ND cliemical research for XASA. 
FR. CRONAN KELLY OFM celebrated the dedi­cation of the net*- Mcmonal Library- b>' sending a copy of the Albo Dantesco for the Dante Collection from the Monaster)' and Churcli of St. Francis of Assisi in Xew York. 
And Hon>-ivood columnist Hedda Hopper again mentioned her favorite dancer, AP Holl>-»vood writer JIM BACOX, this time as giWng a party for the girl who plays Perry Mason's secretary- on TV, Barbara Hale. Hedda quoted Jim as saying the girt it-as as great a comedienne as Lucille Ball but *'ncver has a chance to prove it on the show.'* 
'9f i  Bu^ c  Bauer  
^ O  1139 Western Ave.  
South Bend,  Ind.  

It's a Iiappy sccrctar>-I am, with 57 more replies to our ^Vho's-^\^lc^c-in-the-CIa5S-of-'38 Questionnaire coming in, of whicli 26 were from some whom we hadn't heard from for over a quarter-century. In­cluded in these was JIM REILLEY, who switched from cliemical to mining engineering while at siJiool and didn't get his degree until 1934 after detours via the Army, mine sur\-e\-or and U.S. Patent Office. Now with Arcos Corp of Philadelphia, he has de­veloped a vertical welding process. Jim's still a bachelor—tt took him so long to get his bachelor's degree he's reluctant to give up the status. 
DONALD C. 0*MELIA '39 of Rhine­
lander, Wis., is president-elect of the 
Wisconsin Bar Assn. ^Vilh an LL.6. from 
Afarquette in 1941, he was admitted to 
the Bar and US Supreme Court practice. 
Don is a partner in (he fimi of O'McIia 
and Kaye, probate, criminal, corporation 
and general practice. He is past president 
of the Oneida County Bar Assn. and the 
Wisconsin District Attorneys' Assn., with 
three terms as district attorney- Past 
chairman of the Conference of Local Bar 
Presidents, he is currently on the Board 
of Governors and Executive Committee 
of the State Bar. In civic affairs he has 
been district chairman of the Boy Scouts 
and Brotherhood Week; a member of the 
High School Board, Rhinelander; and 
active in Red Cross and the March of 
Dimes. Fraternal afhliations include the 
Board of Rhinelander Country Club, 
trusteeship in the Eagles, and membership 
in the Lions and American Legion. 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus, AugustSeptemberj 
A couple of other bachelors—and with better 

reason—heard from for the first time »*'crc: MSGR. 
ANTHOXY GOMES, cross-countr>- pastor of Our 
Lady of the Angels dmrch. Fall River, Mass.; FR. 
RICHARD KENXEDY CSC, now superior of the 
Holy Cross Mission House at XD; BRO. REGINALD 
JUSZCZAK, who headed the bays* department at 
our local Catholic high sctiool for years; FR. JOHN 
BLOMMESTEIX, now in the XD economics dept.; 
and BRO. COLU.MBA MILLER CFX, who on April 
30lh, I9&t, celebrated his Golden Jubilee (that's 50 
years for you guys who didn't major in math) as a 
Xavcrian Brother! Congratulations and Ad Multos 
Annos! 
We were happy to hear from another Reverend of 

our class, REV. VICTOR P. FROHXE, pastor of 
the St. Paul E^-angeltcal Church in La Porte, Ind., 
who used to commute to dasscs at XD from there. 
Dr. Frohne has one son, XTctor, in the seminary- and 
another, Vincent, in Berlin, Germany, on a Fulbright 
scholarship in music. 
Also heard frwm FR. MICHAEL O'BRIEN CSC, 

who came into class always smiling as a student, now 
dean of faculties at the U. of Portland; and FR. 
TO.M McDOXAGH CSC, who left after two years 
in sdiool to go to Rome and is now leaching at XD 
after getting a PhD in economics at the U. of 
Wisconsin. 
In the same mail I got replies from two FBI men, BOB EGAX and JOE a-\NALE. After 26 years of silence, that's coordination. Bob lives in Silver Spring, Md., has a boy at the U. of Scranton and another son and daughter at home. Bob works with BILL BRAXIGAX. Joe lives in Memphis, Tenn., his ole home town, has a daughter graduated from Rosar>' College, another attending there, a son at Spring Hill College and a son 15 and daughter 6. Joe, an old B-tcam footballer with me, says he's eligible for retirement when he wishes. Hope it's by the 30th reunion so he can make it. 
Another quarter-century silence breaker horn Washington, D.C., was JOHN WARD—Brooklyn's gift to the chemistry- dass and intcrhall basketball— who lives with %vifc X^orma and two daughters in .\rlington; also BOB MULLEX, who is an intelli­gence operation officer In DC and has 7j4 dtildrcn to prove it. Bob remarried after his first wile died in 1958 but never has quite the ner\'c to attend a re­union. Such inconsistency must be remedied in 1968, Bob, okay? Perhaps Bob can come to our 30.h reunion with JOHX^ BERTELJX'G, now a colonel in the Marine Corps at Quantico, Va., whose two-year­old son, John B. Jr., will be (in 1984) the 4th John Berteling to attend X'.D. Or, if intelligence officer:: can't mingle with Marines, maybe Bob could per­suade TOM FL\'NX' who lives in nearby Bcliiesda with wife and two daughters to come. Tom is a lawyer for the Dept. of Interior; howex'er, he was in counterintelligence during the war. 
Xot all replies were from Uncle Sam's full-time employees. There were others who work as little as a third of a year for him via the Internal Revenue Dept. Sudi as JOE TIMMERMAX, \ice-president and general manager of Johnston Steel and Wire Co.. Worcester, Mass., who never has made a reunion but has a daughter at St. Mary's College; ROGER BARRACK, automobile dealer in Trinidad, Colo.; GEORGE BEL.-\XGER, owner and president of hi: own textile firm in Xcw York; JACK SCHWARTZ­EL, Xew Albany, Ind., wlio is state sales mgr. for Rcniicld Importers in Kentucky and would be most welcome at any reunion; WILLLAM FISH—called Big Bill ivhcn he vv-on the Bowling Doubles Cliamp!­onship at the KC toumament—a claims attorney for Allstate Insurance Co, for 25 years in Mentor, Ohio; DR. DOXALD LE MIRE, political boss of the Upper Peninsula dub and a pretty good country musician on the campus, who has been avoiding the reunions from his home town of Escanaba, Mich.; Ex-marine buddy FRITZ ITZIX, mtw at the U. of Iowa, who has been writing, lecturing, and giving papers on sodal work so much he's missed all the reunions—so far; BILL TAYLOR, who has been managing his Desert Treasures citrus randi in Tucson, Arrr.; ED EXCLISH, who has his reaJ estate brokerage business in Yankton, S. D.; DICK MOLLER who is vice-president of Hudson Pulp and Paper Co., Remsenburg, X.Y.; MILT EISERT of Groton, Conn., who is using his chemistry knowledge as production super\"fsor for Chas. Pfizer Inc.; ERX'EST MAURIX, the Kansas tornado, now presi­dent of a cement roof tile manufacturing company in Pasadena, Calif.; DAX COCHRAX, a manage­ment consultant in San Francisco, Calif.; and GENE DUGGAN wlio owns his own currency exchange in Oak Park, III. 
TOMMY FOY, who was K of C grand knight at XD, said he planned to attend our reunion this year, but the Lions state convention needed him. Thank the Lions, Tommy, for saWng you from being a year late. Tom is a lawyer in Bayard, X^.M., and one of the sur\-ivors of the Bataan death march. He was 
1964 
a district attorney and is now on the Democratic state central committee. J 
A letter from JACK CUDMORE, from Lewislon,' X.Y., asked me to look for JACK McKEXDRY'S dentures around Morrisscy Hall. Is this Jack's way of putting the bite on me? 
I hear indirectly of DAN GIBBS since his XD freshman footballing son, Dan III, dates my daughter Teresa occasionally. 
As for the olc Swede himself, I won the Demo­cratic nomination for the state legislature; sold CHARLES O. FIXLEY, the Kansas City Athletics owner, a water softener for his home and took in 
JOHN M. RYAN *4l Hoosicr to Help Carry Bill & Barry 

Finishing out a term as Judge of the Appellate Court of Indiana's First Judicial District, Republican Jack R>'an is hoping to bolster the Goldwater-Millcr national ticket in the Midwest as a candidate for Lieutenant Governor of the State of In­diana. Judge Ryan, a lawj-er in Indian­apolis for the past 15 years, was appointedQ to the .Appellate Court bench on March 16, 1959, and was elected to a full four-year term in 1960. 
Jack holds an AB degree from Notre Dame. After ser\*:ng in the Navy as a pilot during World War II, he returned to In­diana University Law School where he re­ceived his Doctor of Jurisprudence degree in 1948. He engaged in the practice of law from then until he became Judge of Marion Superior Court on Januar>- 1, 1957. He ser\ed there until Januar>* 1, 1959, when he returned to the practice oi law with thtv firm of White, Raub, and Forrey. 
Judge R>*an is married to the former Mary Ellen Kennedy of Indianapolis. They have two children, John and Kay. A former president of the Indianapolis ND Club, Jack is a member of the American Legion and ser\*ed as Judge Advocate of the In­diana Department of the Legion in 1957-58. He also belongs to the Indianapolis and Indiana Bar Associations, the Indianapolis Press Club, Phi Delta Phi Legal Fraternity, and attends Immaculate Heart of Mar>' Catholic Church. ^ 
CLASS OF '39 Silver Jubilee group eschewed the Old Library to pose at the Main Building with a few "ringers" from the Administration. The 25-year Class had several milestones, including a bagpipe band concert on these steps, their ^ongs>of-the-Thirties "Sing-Along with Motsch (Jim Motschall)" and some impressive souvenirs of the Big Reunion. 
one of his green bats in trade; and won a \%-vck's trip with-Tny-wifc-to-tinr-XirV.-.\V«*rU!s.Eair.as..top.major market dealer for the Lindsay Co. 
As I said at the beginning it's a happy man I am, and tlie only thing that can make mc happier is for the rest of you guys who haven't sent in the Questionnaire to do so NOW. 
DICK GERU lumber king of Manitowoc, Wis., Sent me se\*eral Milwaukee Sentinel clippings about BILL "T-BONE" MAHOXEY, US ambassador to Ghana, receiving an honorary degree and delivering an "Africa the Last Great Frontier" address at the St. Xorbert College graduation on May 31. Dick did not get to sec '*T-Bonc" but said friends of his 

A|vho heard him "reported that he u'as a real credit 
™ o Notre Dame, as those of us who know him arc aware, and have been aware from first acquaint­ance." 
From the Alumni OfHce: Your Class Secretary, for the second time in two and one-half years, was instrumental in relaxing the FHA Title I financing regulations for home improve­mcnls in the South Bend area. Arc you trying to improve your home or get the election for state representative, Buniie? The Irishman, JOHN PATRICK MURPHY, was spotlighted in the South Bend Tribune as being a most \*ahjab]c member of the ND coaching staff since 1959. It also listed his children: DENNIS ^lURPH Y '63, 22; Sheila, 20; and -Margaret, 16. 9<icc family, John. Congratulations to BILL MAHONEY on receiving an honorary' degree from St. Norbert College for "exemplifying and communicating the \'alue of the brotherhood of man." Tlic New York Times sports column by Arthur Da!c>' had quite a piece on "Tlie Sweeping Broom" of JOE KUHARICH in cleaning up the Philadelphia Eagles. With Joe \vielding the broom the Eagles arc a dttst-in for (he Championship. FR. HESBURGH has gone all out with civil rights speeches and parades against "the fact of inequah'ty, the actual travesty of the ideal of America." Prof. ED CRONIN spent the summer losing the rest of his hair teaching college English and compo­sition to a group of high school students for ND's 'iicw college prep program. 
I^ Q Joseph E. Hannan 1804 Greenwood Dr. South Bend, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
JOSEPH L. ADRIAN, RICHARD J. ANTON, THOMAS N. AR.MEL. PATRICK J. BANNON, EMMET P. BARTON, JAMES R. BEGLEY. JO­SEPH E. BEINOR, ROBERT C. BOLZ, HENRY 
P. BORDA, FRANCIS X. BRADLEY, THOMAS 

R. BULGER, M. RICHARD BURKHOLDER, G. ROBERT CAMPBELL, MICHAEL P. CLOUSE, NEAL P. COCHRAN, ARTHUR L. COSCARELH, lAMES B. DALEY, VINCENT W. DeCOURSEY, 
ALBERT G. DENTEN, JOHN M. DEVINS. ED­WARD J. DISSER, VINCENT E. DOLLARD, • UA^VRENCE A.-DOYLE,' PAUL"E. DuCHARME, DONALD K. DUFFEY, BERNARD J. FEENEY, C. FRANK FITCH, THEODORE P. FRERICKS, FRANCIS J. GAGLIONE, JOHN C. GAL­
LAGHER, RICHARD A. GANSER, FRANCIS X. GARTLAND, WALTER J. GEREND, THOMAS G.'GlfcLESPIEv J.'R:-PAT GORMAN, HAROLD 
A. GOTTSACKER, JOHN J. GRIFFIN, JOHN 
Z. GUTOWSKI, GEORGE L. HAITHCOCK, JOSEPH E. HANNAN, RALPH M. HASS, 
CLASS OF '42 had a small reunion in Las Vegas on top of the usual meeting at Florida's International ND Convention when Secretary Bill Hickcy (left), in town for a steel executives* meetings was given a "Nevada howdy*' by dassmate Mike Hines, local attorney and "wheel." (Photo courtesy of the Las V^a s Sun.) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, AugustSeptembeT, 1964 55 
CHARLES B. HAYES, WILLIAM R. HERRICK, JOSEPH J. HIEGEL, HUGO J. HILDEBRANDT, FREDERICK W. HONERKAMP, EDUTN J. HUGHES, JOHN F. JEAGER, HENRY F. JO­HANTGEN, WALTER H. JOHNSON, FRANK R. KELLY, ALFRED O. KIEFER, THONL\S J. KING, GEORGE J. KOVALCIK, ROBERT J. KVATSAK, ERNEST F. LAVIGNE, MAURICE 
F. LEAHY, ROBERT B. LINSEY, JOHN P. LYNAUGH, JOHN E. McAULIFFE, JAMES C. McARDLE, EDWARD G. McDERMOTT, JOSEPH 

E. McDERitOTT, JOHN F. McDONALD, JO­SEPH L. McDONALD, JAMES G. McGOLD-RICK, RICHARD V. McKAY, CIHRLES A. Mc-NA.\L\RA, PHILIP J. MALONEY, RALPH B. MAZAR, NICHOLAS J. MEAGHER, iLATTHEW H. MERKLE, DAVID T. MESKILL, WILLUM T. MEYERS, MARK J. MITCHELL, JAMES N. MOTSCHALL, JOHN P. MULDERIG, JOHN 
J. MURPHY, CARL J. NAGEL, CHARLES M. NORTON, JOHN S. O'BRIEN, CHARLES F. O'MALLEY, THONUS E. O'MALLEY, RICHARD 
J. O'MELIA, WILLIAM D. OTOOLE, FRANCIS 
M. PAYNE, FRANK S. PITTMAN, GEORGE 
F. PLAIN, JOHN F. PI^VNALP, JAMES L. QUINN, J. GREGORY RICE, ^\^LLIAM H. RICKE, CHARLES R. RILEY, A. JOSEPH RIZZI, JAMES E. ROCAP, STEWART J. ROCHE, THOMAS E. ROCHE, CHARLES F. RODGERS, DANIEL J. RYAN, JOSEPH F. RYAN, RAY­MOND M. SCHLECK, ROBERT F. SCHIRF, ALBERT J. SCHMITZ, ROBERT C. SCHROEDER, GERARD A. SCHWARTZEL, ROBERT A. SHEP­PARD, WALTER J. SHORT, JOHN A. SIEGEL, FRED E. SISK, JAMES W. SNYDER, LOUIS M. SOMERS, CHARLES H. STREATER, BERNARD 
J. SULLIVAN, JOHN P. SULLIVAN, TIMOTHY 
J. SULLIVAN, JOHN W. TERRELL, EDWARD 
M. TOBIN, MARIO G. TONELLI, FRANCIS S. TUCK, PAUL C. TULLY, JAMES C. WALSH, RICHARD E. iraLCH, JOHN B. WHEELER, EUGENE L. WHITE, ANDREW F. WILSON, ROBERT F. WILSON, ARTHUR J. WOODS, THADDEUS P. ZACHEK, THOMAS T. ZIEGLER. 
Frt>m the Alumni OfHce: Secrctao'-elect JOE HANNAN, who managed Uie S3vcr Jubilee Reunion so beautifully, is on deck for the next column, while retiring JIM MOTSCHALL is preparing 3 memorial brochure. The 32nd District Pennsylvania state senator, TOM KALMAN, is a busy man. He is chairman of one committee and vice-chairman of another. Even so, we received a letter from him in behalf of a prospective student. DON 0*MELIA was recently named president­elect of the State Bar of Wisconsin. More than 5000 lawyers participated in the election and Don will take oflice as president one year hence for a period of one year. ALEX SHELLOCG, director of athletics for the CYC in Los Angeles, stopped at ND for a few days ilt April on his way back from a visit to his native town of licw Castle, Pa. He was honored at a dinner there on April 18 when he was made a member of 
DAVID J. CURTIN '43 has been named assistant vice-president of Xerox Corp. He has been director of public relations since 1963. He joined Xerox in 1937 as assistant to the president. Prior to that tim^ he was radio-TV director for the Genesee Brewing Company and bad served as a news and sportscaster with several Rochester radio stations. 
the New Castle high school all-time team. While in South Bend he visited with old teammates CHUCK SWEENEY and JOHN MURPHY. 
GREG RICE made it back for his Silver Jubilee Reunion. Just last spring after 25 years his name dropped from the Irish record book when Mike Gallagher of Western Michigan set a new Cartier Field two-mile mark. Greg is now an accountant with a New York City toy firm. 
DR. STANLEY SHEERAN MS'39 has been elected a v-p by the Archer Daniels Midland Co. of Minne­apolis and will continue to be responsible for over­all marketing strategy for the ADM Chemical Group's five chemical dcpts.—industrial and specialty.j chemicals, resins, plastics and plasticizers. • 
James G. Brown '40 144 East 44th St. New York, N.Y. 
REUNIO.N' REGISTRANT JUAN CINTRON. 

From the Alumni Oflice: JOHN M. WOLF, former assistant professor in accounting at ND, has been named v-p of account and controls for Mueller Brass Co., Port Huron, .Mich. ^> You can e-xpect to be hearing soon from President • JIM DONOGHUE, Secretary JIM BROWN or the perennial chairman, Treasurer DICK BURKE, about the gala Silver Jubilee in June of '65. Mean­while, why don't you send some news and a word on your intentions to one of the vice-presidents. PHIL SAND.MAIER, WALT FLEMING, JOE THESING or JI.M METZLER? 
'^ 1 James F. Spellman 
7 East 42nd St. 
New York, N.Y. 

From the Alumni Office: BRO. DOXATUS SCHMITZ CSC, Midwest pro-| ^incial of the Holy Cross Brothers, recently an­nounced the new obediences, including the appoint­ment of classmate BRO. REX HEXNEL CSC (MA '51) as headmaster of Gilmour Academy in the Cleveland area. JOE SOMERS, pres. of WyckofT Steel Co., is a member of the new governing body of Merc>' Hospi­tal in Pittsburgh. He i's also a member of the Board of Consultants of Mount ^tc^cy College. REV. STANLEY PARRY CSC is a newly-named associate professor of government and international studies. Fr. Parry heads the political science dept. at ND. DR. HENRY RAGO PhD'4I, editor of Poetry-magazine gave a reading of his own poems in the Art Gallery at ND on April 20. His most recent work, A Sky of late Summer, ^^'as just translated into Italian. , ^ 
William M. Hickey 
-42 3333 West 45th Place 
Chicago, III. 

Among the members of our class attending the Notre Dame Club of Florida International Conven­tion at Lucayan Beach, Bahamas were GEORGE RUDOLPH, TOM WALKER, BILL HICKEY and BOB HARGRAVE. This is a great get-together highly recommended for everyone. Be sure to try to attend next year. If you want to get on the mailing list, write to TOM WALKER, 201 New Dania Bank Building, P.O. Box 595, Dania, Florida. 
CLASS OF '44 seemed resigned to the fact that they were 20 years "over the hill," but they still had young ideas 
and tastes running to such sophomoric excesses as pizza dinners, handkerchief waving in dose-order drill at the 
Alumni Banquet and a perpetual readiness to chant the "Victory March" with tin-eared vigw at the drop of a downbeat. 
S6 Noire Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
From the Alumni Office: /jk JAMES P. DOYLE, CPA of Davenport, la., was '^Seeled a member of ilic Trial Board of the American 
Institute of CPAs in May. The Trial Board handles complaints against any of the 50,000 members of the national professional organization who may violate the Code of Professional Ethics. 
BERXIE BREHL has been named manager of marketing for G.E.'s laminated products dept. in Coshocton, Ohio. 
SAM BOYLE has been named city editor of the Philadelphia Bulletin. 
DR. ERNEST WILHELM, associate prof of diemi­cal engineering at ND, has been awarded a certifi­cate of recognition by the National ^Vssn. of Cor­rosion Engineers. The certificates were given to 120 ^^en throughout the nation on the basis of pro­
fVarssional accomplishments in their fields. DR. JOHN MALONE, asst. dean of the College of Business Adm. at ND., is a busy man. He is founder of the ND Forcmanship Development Pro­gram, scr\'cs as a marketing consultant to several companies and was recently a speaker at the annual election and dinner meeting of the Sales and Adver­tising Executives Club of St. Joseph Valley. 
Our sympathies to the family of STEVE JUZWIK. FRANK LEiVHY didn't learn of Steve's death until he arrived in Los Angeles late Monday night, but he cared enough to take a night flight to Chicago for the Tuesday morning funeral. 
Along with a promotion to the rank of full pro­fessor of physics, DR. WALTER C. MILLER MS'42 
Ij^xcivcd a research grant of $135,000 from the Office of Na\*al Research for study of Nuclear Energy Spectra of Artificially Excited Nuclei. Jointly with two other professors of physics Dr. Miller received a $50,000 grant from the National Science Founda­tion for study of Equipment for Nuclear Research. 
COL. BILL MULLEN PhD M2 has put ROTC units on campus through another President's Review with Rying colors. FR. HESBURCH joined him on the renew stand. 
'43 ^^^ Wiggins 5125 Briggs Ave. LaCrcsccnta, Gal. 

From the Alumni Ofiicc: 
Congratulations to the old two-miler, FBI man ^LLI E HUNTER of New Castle, Pa., for the cvcnt­sSl term he recently concluded as president of the 
national Alumni Assn. Under his presidency new coaches were signed for both football and basketball and some major changes were made in the role of the Alumni Board. OIlie must be particularly proud that his ND track record still stands after a season in which the records of GREG RICE, ALEX WIL­SON and other Irish immortals were shattered. 
'4 4 I^iP^LA- Neufeld 
P. O. Box 853 Green Bay, Wis. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS ,»HENRY L. ADAM, GUIDO A. ALEXANDER, is. "GRIFF" ALLEN, NICHOLAS J. .UIATO, JAMES H. ANTON, GEORGE A. BARISCILLO JR., RICHARD F. BENNING, DOMINIC F. BOETTO, JOHN J. BORKOWSKI, BERNARD 
F. BOWLING, THOMAS F. BREMER, BEN E. BRUNETTI, JOSEPH E. CHRISTEN, HERBERT 
F. CL/\RK, JAMES J, CHRKE , PAUL P. COL­lANNI, JOSEPH A. CONERTY, CLEMENT E. CONSTANTINE, JOHN H. CRAa\N, VICTOR 
A. DcSIMON, HENRY C. DEWES, RICHARD 
T. DOERMER, OZZIE L. DOL,\N, EDWARD 
J. DOWLIXG, JACK H. DOYLE, JOHN J. DUFFY, EDWARD B. DUNIGi\N, W. JOSEPH EATON, MILTON J. FLYKE, KENNETH A. FORBES, GERALD P. GAFFNEY, EDWARD R. GALLAGHER, MELVIN W. GELBER, BER­
riARD J. GHIGLIERI, L^tWRENCE J. GOE­BELER, WILLIAM H. GRAFE, THOMAS F. HALLIGAN, JOHN F. HE,\GNEY, JOHN 
A. HENNEBERGER, R,\YMOND J. HOFF­MAN, OLIVER H. HUNTER, JOHN E. JOHNSON, JAMES J. KANE, JOHN D. KELLY, WILLIAM J. KENNY, VICTOR M. KIMMEL, JOHN R. KLEE, LEO J. L-VRDIE, HARRY D. LAVERY, ROBERT L. LEHALVN, JAMES W. LLOYD, ROBERT D. M&\ULIFFE, ROBERT J. McCREtVDY, ROBERT A. McDOX-NELL, JAMES J. MAHONEY, JAMES J. MALONE, BENJAMIN J. MAMMINA, JAMES 
L. ME,\GHER, CREIGHTON E. MILLER, RICHARD J. MILLER, EDWARD F. MONA­HAN, WILLIAM C. MULLIGAN, JOHN D. MURPHY, JOHN F. P. MURPHY, RICHARD 
. MURPHY, JOSEPH A. NEUFELD, WILLIAM 
* 
F. O'BRIEN, EDWARD P. O'CONNOR, WL ­LIAM A. O'CONNOR, WILLIAM C. O'CON­NOR, JOHN F. O'HARA, J. THOMAS O'REILLY, EDGAR A. PESSEMIER, EUGENE W. PILAW­SKI, THOMAS J. ROLFS, FIUVNK B. ROMAN, AL A. ROMEO, WALTER R. ROMITO, PHILIP 
L. RUSSO, J. WLLIAM SCHEUCH, CHARLES 
E. SEGHERS, EUGENE R. SLEVIN, WILLIAM 
T. SNYDER, EDWIN S. SOCHALSKI, GERALD E STANTON, FRANK J. STUMPF, JOHN F. SULLIVAN, J<\MES C. THOMAS, JOHN F. THORNTON, J. ROBERT THUMM, RAYMOND 
S. TOLSON, DzVNIEL J. TOMCIK, PAUL F. UNVERZAGT, CHARLES M. URRUELA, M. JOSEPH VAN DYKE, FRANCIS J. VIGNOLA, \VILLIAM J. WALDRON, JOHN S. WAITERS, GEORGE R. WENDT, WILLIAM T. IVHITE, SAM A. WING. 
"Rise and Shine In '69," a phrase coined by ED DUNNIGAN and immediately accepted as the theme for our Silver Jubilee Reunion five years hence, was echoing in the "Caf" one Sunday morning this past June. The Class of '44 had just wound up its 20th and "greatest yet," and already were looking for­ward to the ne-xt. Heading the column is a list of the reunion registrants. Those not listed missed one tremendous time! 
A few reunion tidbits: L-ARRY GOEBELER, up from Rio, nosed out CHUCK URRUELA, who cruised in Irom Caracas, for distance honors .... JIM PL;\TT, detained in Chicago, was awarded the proli6c prize, in absentia, for his brood of 10 .. . . Retiring Class President JOHN LYNCH was un­avoidably committed to a business engagement in Boston and sent greetings ... . BILL O'CONNOR 
(N. Y.) was first to arrive and JACK THORNTON 
ROBERT W. GALVIN '44 In Electronic Scion, an Air Apparent 

Robert W. Galvin, who became chair­man of the board and chief executive offi­cer of Motorola, Inc., this year, is a 20­year veteran in the fast-paced electronics industry. 
Son of the late Paul V. Galvin, founder of Motorola, Bob was bom in Marshfield, Wis., but most of his early years were spent in and around Evanston, 111. His business indoctrination began at age 10, when his father started taking him on business trips. After his graduation from high school his father put him to work in the stockroom at 40 cents an hour. 
He worked in \'arious summer jobs dur­

last to depart ... . Bachelor "CREIGHT' MILLER won the driving contest with his slam of 3ai yards ... . BEN BRUNETTI announced his engagement and July 4th wedding date ... . JIM MALONE is still a holdout ... . Greetings arrived from "MIKE" FRAWLEY, who was forced to cancel at the last moment due to a business conflict (he's with National Cash Register in L. A.) ... . FRANK CARVER, now teaching in Ithaca, and HARRY YE.ATES, busy editing the Art and Gift Buyer in New York, also sent regrets ... . Both JOHN MURPHYs ("BLACK JOHN" and "RED JOHN") made it .. . . VINCE DUNCAN was hone>'mooiiing with his bride, Annamarie (married 6-6-64; new address; 1121 Albion Street, Denver). 
JOE EATON came all the way from California, SA,M WING from Dallas, JIM MAHONEY from Florida, FRANK STUMPF from Virginia, CLEM CONSTANTINE from New Hampshire, and JOE DILLON and J.\CK WATFERS all the way from South Bend, etc., etc., etc. 
The weekend was filled with nostalgia and at the same time enlivened and packed with many "extras" adding up to a smooth-running program designed and executed superbly by the Alumni Office. This was a ne'er-to-be-forgotten masterpiece highlighted by FATHER HESBURGH's straight from the shoulder Library report to the Alumni in the mag­nificent new edifice, and Ara Parseghian's account of his stewardship to the troops at the Altunni Banquet in the plush new North Dining Hall. The pause for a Memorial Mass for the 48 deceased '44 men was an inspiring, impressive demonstration of fraternal charity. There were golf and box lunches and a Friday night pizza and buffet spread neatly managed by local chairman BOB LEHMAN; there was a never-ending flow of choice liquid refreshments 
ing t^vo years at Notre Dame and in 1942 enlisted in the U. S. Signal Corps. Fol­lowing military service he joined Motorola full time and shifted from one department to another learning about the business. In 1946 Bob became assistant to the vice-president in charge of the car radio divi­sion, and two years later executive vice-president. 
Bob became president of Motorola in 1956 and has led Motorola through a peri­od of major diversification first envisioned by Paid Galvin. The senior Galvin, struck by leukemia in 1938, lived long enough afterward to see some of the new product areas materialize under his son's guidance. During the mid-1950's Motorola entered the semi-conductor, stereo hi-fi and hospital communications fields. Since 1960 the com­pany has activated a Solid State Systems Division, participated in aerospace pro­grams and has broadened its product lines of automotive equipment. 
In 1944 Bob married Mary Barnes, a Chicago girl. They live on a farm in Bar­rington. III., with their four children: Gale, 16; Dawn, 14; Chris, 13; and Michael, 11. The farm provides the Galvins an op­portunity to grow up with their children and share their interest in horseback riding, fishing and animal husbandry. Bob is an enthusiastic skier on both snow and %vater and likes badminton, squash, and Softball. 
Bob is a member of the Board of Lay Trustees of Notre Dame, trustee of the Illinois Institute of Technology, member of the E.\ecutive Committee of the .Armour Research Foundation; a director of the Harris Trust and Sa\'ings Bank, Junior -Achievement of Chicago and the Electronic Industries -Assn., and vice-chairman of the American Heritage Foundation. Last fall he served as chairman for the National Con­ference of Christians and Jews banquet in Chicago. Currently he is serving as finance chairman for friend Charles H. Percy's bid for the governorship of Illinois. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 57 
competing whU a nm'er-ending flow of reminiscing. There were bus tours of the ever-expanding campus; 
a class photo on the old Libnir>- steps, the tradi­tional Alumni Banquet and the Annual Alumni Mass in Sacred Heart Ctmich on Sunday. In short, a great weekend of just plain relaxing again with great guys, fullilling the best hopes of all who journc>'cd back, and drawing forth the solemn promise of all to return, the Good Lord willing, half a decade hence. 

This column represents your perennial sccretar>'*s final efTort and at the same time affords an opportunity to express sincere appreciation to all who assisted me through the years in gathering and spreading news about the men of '44. I also seize this moment to thank the reunionitcs for the pro­found privilege the)* have extended to me in naming tnc Class President for the next five vears. Following men Hkc DICK DOERMER, JACK THORNTON and JOHN L\'NCH is an honor indeed. Other officers selected include nine vice-presidents whose job it will be to assist the nc%v Class sccretar>' in ferreting out the column news and who will assist TOM ROLFS and "BLACK JOHN" MURPH\', whom I am appointing Jubilee Reunion Co-Chair­mcn for June '69. 
The "Vecps": CLEM CONSTANTINE, New England area; JOHN DUFFY, New York area; JIM CLARKE. Mid-.\llantic area; JIM MAHONEY, Southeast area; JACK CRAH.-VN, Midwest area; FRANK VIGNOL.^, Chicago area; SAM WING, Texas and the Southwest area; JOE EATON, West Coast area; and JACK HUFF, Northwest area. 
TOM O'REILLY of Fort Wayne was elected Class treasurer, and the depository- selected for Class funds: DICK DOERMER's bank in Fort Wayne. 
That leaves the secretary*, whom I am happy to announce is JOE NEUFELD. Joe has all of our good wishes and blessings as he accepts a burden that hopefully will be lessened through the coopera­tion and help of all '44 men. Remember to write often and please direct all future class news to: JOE NEUFELD, P.O. Box 853, Green Bay, Wis­consin. 
And don't forget our SiK-er Jubilee S}os!inz "Rise and Shine in '69!" —George Barisdllo 
From the Alumni Office: JOE EATON, ciiicf engineer for Mcnasco Mfg. Co.'s Calif, div., has been elected v-p of engineering for the company. He and his family live in La Canada. Calif. FRANCIS VIGNOLA, pres. of Vignola Furniture Co., was named Furniture Man of the Year at the annual lunclieon meeting. May 27, of tlie Chicago Retail Furniture Assn. He is chairman of the asso­ciation and was cited for contributions to the indus­try. BRO. BENIGNUS BEUTTER u-as spotlighted in the April 21 issue of the Brothers of Holy Cross Southwest Review. He has been at Notre Dame High School, Sherman Oaks, Calif., since 1953, teaclnng chemistr>', until he was appointed head of the math­ematics drpi. in 1958. Today he efficiently fulfills the duties of asst. superior, of the director of studies, of an extensive guidance and testing program, and continues to teach a full scliedule of mathematics classes. BRO. GERONTIUS McCARTHY xvas re­cently named superior and principal of Catholic Central High Scliool. Monroe, Mich. FR. EDWARD O'CONNOR, C.S.C., was recently named an associate professor of thcolog\- at XD. 
Frank M. Linchan 
'45 General Electric Co. 600 Main St Johnson City, N.Y. 

Congratulations to DR. TOM BERGIN on his recent appointment as dean of continuing education at Notre Dame. Tom received his master's from 
U. of Vermont and doctorate from Syracuse, and he had been ser\'ing as head of the dept. of business organization and management. He is a member of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics and a member of the Advisory Board to the Area Rede­velopment Administration, U.5. Dept. of Commerce. He and his wife Barbara celebrated their 10th wed­ding anniversary in April. Tlie\- have four children, three bo>-s and a girl. 
JOHN RYAN, Conn. General Life Ins. reprcsenta­live in Hibbing, ^finn., lias earned membership in the 1964 Million Dollar Round Table, the life in­surance industry's 3500 elite member international Organization of million-dollar-a-year-sales producers. He is also a Life Member of the Presidents' Club and Honor Table of Conn. General. 
Class of '48 has a real great secretary and cor­respondent in GEORGE "THE BEAK" KEENAN. I know many of tlie 4o'ers have enjoyed reading his 
MIRE DAMB 
*^ NIOHT 
FLINT — Twin "ND Man of the Year" awards, at the llth annual UND Night dinner at Flint Golf Club, went to realtor Paul C Hughes and attorney Robert J. MacDonald. Exchanging congratulations are (L-r.): IVbgr. Henry M, Mayotte, dean of the Flint Deanery, who announced the awards; John J. Broderick, assistant dean of the ND Law School, main speaker; Hughes, MacDonald and Timothy Halligan, program chairman. 
recent columns and learning about fellows who 
started with us twenty-two years ago! Fellows like 
TOM HERBERT, GENE DEAN, BOB HOLLEN­
KAMP, DUNKY REAGAN, BILL FITZHARRIS, 
FR. JACK MCCARTHY, CS.C , and many others 
—keep it up, George. 
HERB DAIKER is getting to be "Mr. Big" at 

Old Forge, N.Y., in the Adirondacks. He is prin­
fupal-tcaclier at the Inlet Public Scfiool and owner 
of Daikcr's Inn at Fourth Lake. Herb married Mar­
garet Murray in '62, and they have a son, Tal. He 
is doing graduate work at Syracuse U. If you are 
travelling the thruway, get off at Utica and head 
north on Route 12 and 28—Herb would love to sec 
vou. 
Lt. Col. ELMER F. (GIL) GILLESPIE, M.D., 

US.AF, is chief of hospital scr\ices at Amarillo Air 
Force Base, Tex. He and Louisene will be celebrat­
ing their 15tli wedding anniversary* this December. 
Gil is out of Georgetown ^led 15 years this past 
June. 
JOHN HOSBELN received his MBA at the U. of 

Chicago in June, '63. He is \-icc-president of M. H. 
Detrick Co., Chicago, and lives in Glcncoe, 111., 
with his wife Rosemarie and five clitldrcn. 
BILL COGHLAN is in private medical practice in Beaver Falls, Pa. He is a graduate of Jefferson and is a Diplomatc of the American Board of Sur­gery*, Diplomatc of the American Board of Tlioracic Surgery, and Fellow of the American College of Surgeons. Three boys and a girl make up Bill and Patricia's family. 
Another classmate and doctor, CHARLES CROWN, and his wife Barbara will celebrate their 15th wedding anniversary this year. Charles prac­tices in New Canaan, Conn., and is a graduate of 
U. of Illinois Medical School. They have three girls and a bov. 
DAVE MURPHY, who holds forth in Northfield, 111., with his wife Barbara and their five children, is sales supervisor for US Printing and Lithograph in Chicago. 
GERRY O'BRIEN with his BS and LL.B from ND and LL.M from Catholic U., is a partner in the law firm of Royse, Travis, O'Brien, and Hend­rickson In Indianapolis. He was with the US Dept. of Agriculture, Asst. U.S. .Attorney, and Tax Di\-i­sion of the Dept. of Justice prior to entering private practice. He and Mildred have five cliildren. 
FR. BILL O'CONNOR reports in from Burbank, Calif., where he is pastor of St. Francis Xavier parish, 3056 N. Buena Vista. 
JOHN RINELLA, dean of the Softball pi'tclicrs, is in the law firm of Rinella and Rtnella in the Windy City. John, Joan and tlieir three children live in Mt. Prospect, III. 
"DAPPER DICK" SADOWSKI is owner and 
president of "Domico" of Miami and the Domini­
can Republic. Dick and Corinne'have been married 
15 years this past Mardi and lii'c with their three 
children in N. Miami, Fla. 
We pass along the condolences of the Class t ^ "J. D." USINA on the recent death of his father. The pravcrs of his classmates and a Mass offered by REV. THOS. J. O'DONNELL, ClS.C, are the most significant and appropriate condolences on the passing of a member of the Notre Dame family. JD's address: Comdr. Jos. D. Usina, U.S.S. Mitsclier, D L-2, FPO, New York, 
Tlie great portly athlete, the winner of the 
"Mystery Race" at 'Spring Field Day '45, WALT 
MCDERSIOTT, reports in from L.A., where he is 
district manager for Maramont Corp. Active in the 
K of C, Walt has been grand knight of two coun­
cils, Kaythr>"n and Wall have Dennis graduating 
from high school in June. They have six other 
children. 
A real nice spread on BILL OBERMILLER in tly% 
Feb.-Mar. ALUMNUS. He is judge in City Cou ^ 
of Whiting, Ind. 
BRO. LEONARDO BEBETU, C.S.C., is teaching 
at Arclibishop Hoban High School in .Akron, Ohio. 
Mar>' Ann and HARRY BERLINER celebrated 
their 15th wedding anniversarv' April 30. They have 
eight children and Harr>* is D.-\ of Xe\'ada County, 
Calif., and is also president of Berliner and Mc-
Ginnis Inc. 
It's great to see one of our contemporaries named baskclball coach—JOHNN*Y DEE. Congratulations, good luck, and may he have a long tenure! Can still sec Ratterman, Gilhooley, Hassett, Boyrilk and Dee on the court tn the Field House. 
Tlic Linehatis with their latest arrival, Joanna, Feb. 18. arc now situated at 2 Elizabeth St., Chc^^ nongo Bridge, M.R. 97, Binghamton, N.Y. ^ ^ 
Tlie welcome mat is alwa)'s out for you any time you arc in the Southern Tier of New York. 
Come June '65 we will be at our 20th Reunion. Before the local committee gets too far along in its plan, we solicit your ideas as to what vou would LIKE and PARTICIPATE in as a program. 
BERNARD GOTTA '45 (CLU) has again earned membership In the life insurance industr>''s Million Dollar Round Table by selling a million dollars of netv life insurance last year. 
REV. MICH.AEL J. MURPHY, C.S.C., has been busy directing the institute on geolog>- for the summer session. 
DEAN TO.M BERGIN spoke on continuing educa­tion before a South Bend-Mishawaka Chamber of Commerce dinner honoring Associates Investment Co. and on "Problems of Economic Growth: Knoxv;^ 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus^ AugustSeptemberj 1964 
ing and Caring" at a meeting of the Florida Iii­riustrial Development Council in Orlando. 
*AL Peter P. Richbki 60 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Conn. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS JAMES B. FINUaVNE, WALTER F. ROGERS. 

From the Alumni OlUcc: 
DAVID SKORY, who returned for an AB in 1948 and LL. B *49, was a welcome visitor In the .Alumni Office in early June. Dave is an American legal consultant in Rome» Italy, representing a growing 
t
number of clients in the European and Near East areas. He has a fine family, including two sons whose eyes are on Notre Dame, presently being routed through the Holy Cross Brothers school in Rome. Dave gets back to New York, Washington and California frequently but this was an unusual opportunity to visit the campus. 
JIM MCCARTH Y has joined the information 5er\'­ices drpl, of the Air Transport Assn. of America and will serve as a public relations representative in Washington. D.C. 
EDWARD J. RODGERS, national advertising administrator, has been appointed Car Advertising Manager for the manufacturing staff of Ford Div, in Dearborn. Ed and Jean have six children: Edward Jr.. 11; Mark, 9; Clirislinc, 8; Michael, 7; Lucy, 3; 
|an d David. 1. 
ROBERT GREENHALGH, former FBI agent, has been appointed director of security for American Oil Co. He will advise and assist on internal security matters at any company location where needed and also handle special investigations and work with law enforcement agencies when appropriate. Bob and Katherine are living at 550 .\Ieadow Road, Wjii­netka. III., with their children—Mar>- Kay. 12; Susan. 10; Sally, 8; Melinda, 7; Judy, 6; and Tim­othy, 4. 
The latest news release on JOE FLYNN says he boasts "I'm on the Tlirce-S diet: Steak, Salad and Scotch.*' If this were the case wc don't think he could turn In such good performances on ''McHale's Nav\'.'* 
'47 ^^^ ^^^ 
3218 Bentlcy Lane South Bend, Tnd. 
REU.VIO.V REGISTK^\.VTS ROBERT aVXNOX, MYLES F. KELLY. 
SHORT AND SWEET . . . 

Thai's what this rdilion's column is. If it is to become longer and sweeter, it's up to you . . . and you . . . and the 600 or so "yous" who com­prise this class. 
"SA.\TA CRUZ-I.VC" 

'Twill be just my luck to have some of these situations changed by inter\'cnlng obediences, but there's a rundown on recent moves involving Holy Cross priest-classmates: FR. LAWRENCE LcVASSEUR has settled down in Santiago, Chile, at the Seniinario de Santa Cruz, and his successor as superior of St. Joseph Hall on the campus is FR. JOSEPH FEY, formerly an as­sistant at Sacred Heart Church in New Orleans. FR. MATT MICELI is back at Ca\-anaugh hall after a tour of duty at Portland U. in Oregon. FR. JOHN DRISCOLL is at .Notre Dame High School in Niles, 111., which yielded football coach JOE YONTO to the current Fighting Irish gridiron staff. And FR. WILFRID .MENARD is chaplain at the Army garrison at Fort Chaffee, Ark. 
OUR FAIR L.\IT\' 

C Marj and ELMER .MATTHEWS, who have gone positively classic by moving to Valhalla Way in Verona (N.J., that is), greeted 8 lb., 7 oz. Sheila Marie April 27. 
JOE GASPARELLA was back for the OJd Timers' game this spring and reported somewhat ruefully that his Carnegie Tech footballers fashioned a 1-8 record from its de-emphasized schedule. The coach­ing position is a part-time cliorc for Joe, who is a successful Pittsburgh architect. 
FRANCIS KOBAY/\SHI has been promoted to a full professorship in engineering science at Notre Dame. 
JOHN FITZHENRY. president of the glcc club in our student days, remains ever the music man: he is accompanist for the local Bcndix male chorus, plays some gigs for an area dance band, closed out 
gihc school year at Washington high school in South Bend by shouldering the musical duties in the pres­entation of "Finian's Rainbow," and already has shifted to nistic garb to ser\'e as organist and vocal director for South Bend's Country Playhouse, which opened its first summer stock season in June with a staging of "Oklahoma!" 
That proper Bostonian, .MAJ. JOHN BERNARD HYNES, is receiving billets-doux at the directorate of information at Steward AFB, N.Y., headquarters of the 26tli air division. 
And the January issue of Rciista Cafctalera, oflt­cial organ of the National Coffee Msn. in Guate­mala, pictures LUIS BELTRANENA, managing di­rector of the organization, attending an international conference which attracted delegates from the Cen­tral American countries to discuss problems affect­ing the coffee market. 
GLEANINGS An 18-ycar-oId lad enrolling at Notre Dame in September may be the first of the Vetvillc babies to return as a student. He is Dennis, son of the RALPH SI.MONS of Vincennes, Ind. Born in 1946 when Vetvllle was not yet completed, Dennis was baptized by FATHER CRADDICK, who is cur­rently celebrating his 25th anniversary* in the priest­hood. Chatted with KEN SCHUSTER at the Monogram Club dinner in June; he's fit and trim. Tlie University's premier tyropanist, JIM MUR­PHY, was in the ND delegation to the American College Public Relations Assn. meeting in Lx\ July 5-8. He was to present a paper on academic freedom, he reported, but I suspect the topic was more like, "Campus Controversy and Ifou-to Quash It." Your secretary, breaking into print again this September with a yarn entitled, ''The Turning Point," in The Catholic Boy (published bv FR. TOM McNALLY, C.S.C., '49), is off to Chicago in mid-month to help put out the Boating Industr>­Daily at the annual Marine Trades Exhibit and Con­ference at McCormick Place. But I'll be in town for all the football games, so any of you who are coming in for a looksee at the revitalized Irish are invited to drop in for lemonade and a cruller afterwards .. . or before, if you can make it. Quick quote from a letter from ED B.ALL's wife. Juanita: "We bought a grain farm . . , and Ed has an office in Wakarusa, Ind., for his income tax ser\-­
icc. It's the only life. Wc all love it and it's ideal for children, which is our most important crop. . . . " 
A.V I.WITATION 

Our class roster starts with GENE MARTIN xX/VSEN and concludes with JOHN L.\WRENCE ZUCCA, JR. We'd like to hear from you two gentle­men, and all you strong, silent types in between. 
From the Alumni Office: 
FR.ANK GILHOOLEY, well-known Toledo sports broadcaster, has been named sports director of To­ledo's WTOL Demand Radio. In his new position, he will take charge of all sports reporting for the station and will continue his popular morning and evening sports programs on \VTOL. He has broad­cast play-by-play descriptions of U. of Toledo bas­
ketball games since 1957. For the past four years he 
has been advertising mgr. and secy, of the Buckeye 
Brewing Co. in Toledo. 
JIM RUFF, director of marketing services, was promoted to corporate director of marketing at the American Hospital Supply Corp. in Evanston, III. 
IGNACIO LOZANO, Los Angeles industrialist 
and publisher of La Optnioa, a Spanish language 
daily newspaper, was appointed as a consultant to 
Lucius D. Battle, US asst. secy, of state for educa­
tional and cultural affairs. He wilt ad^'ise the Cul­
ture Exchange Program on \'arious phases of its 
Latin American activities. 
BILL DIOGUARDI, \-arsity baseball coach at Montdair State College, has been named New Jersey State College Conference's **BasebaII Coach of the Year.*' In his 16 years of coaching at Montdair State he has had only one losing season. 
DR. FRANK FAHEY, asst. proL of sodology, re­ceived a $25,000 grant from the Area Redevelopment Administration of the US Dept. of Commerce for a South Bend Community Analysis Study. 
REV. ARTHUR HARVEY. C.S.C., has been pro­moted to assoc. prof, of communication arts. 
IJlO George J, Kccnan ••O 177 RoUing HiDs Rd. Clifton, NJ. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS ART CASSIDY, JAMES FERSTEL, JOHN LAUGHLIN, EDWARD RECKER, JAMES WEBB. 
The Memorial Day Weekend finds me trying to gather some information for the next edition of th= ALUMNUS. I just received a letter frtim JOHN LAUGHLIN, our classmate and managing editor of the ALUMNUS telling me that a June 1 post­mark is necessary' if there is anything to go into the August-Sept, issue. Based on the cooperation I have been receiving from all the members of the Class of '48, the deadline could be Doomsday and I wouldn't get much help so we'll go to press with what we have been able to. dig up in the past few months. 
In Pittsburgh a few weeks ago I met BILL WIGHTKIN, who is the sales manager for the Gen­eral Bearings Co. in Chicago. Bill was mentioning the upcoming Old-Ttmcrs Game and how he would like to play in it. Bill figured he was in good enough shape but his better half didn't think he was in that good a shape. I told Bill that I had seen ART STATUTO recently, and be asked to be remembered to Art and also to CASPAR URBAN. 
In Philadelphia the other day I called BART JOHNSON and talked to him to find out what was going on in that area of interest to our group and he had nothing specific to report. 
GENE DEAN recently returned from a trip to Bermuda and aboard ship won a twist contest. That must have been a sight to behold—an elephant doing the Hogey-Pogey. 
Tliesc arc ver>' lean times as far as Inlormatton is concerned. I could supplv a hundred address changes: like ZIG CZAROBSKI moved from 306 North Lo­cust Street to 747 North Gladstone in Aurora, III.; 
DENVER — Universal Notre Dame Night in the Brown Pabce Hotel drew more than 150. At left Father Hesburgh presents an ND Club scholarship to IWUiam Ycagcr of Regis High School. At right the honor guest appears with local principals, (L-r.) Challenge II Chairmen Gerard Smith and Carl Eiberger, Club Preadent James Hilger. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 59 
GLASS OF M9 15th annivcrsar\' featured a running floor show in the courtyard of Dillon Hall, arranged hy John Moorhcad 
and his national conmiittce in the absence of the Class ofiiccrs, and the election of Leo Wesley relieve John Walker. Mlth campus photographer Bruce Harlan seated fiont and center, who's 
and TOM LOOK lias moved from Dtrtroit to Bir­mingham, Mich.: and GEORGE NE\VITT*s correct Zip Code is 60187- That's not of loo much interest but it is all the infonnation I am getting. Conse­quently wc sort of run out of gas when it comes time to write up news for these issues. 
JOE YOXTO lias apparently been made an as­sistant football coach on the ND coaching staff. We note his new address is at Notre Danic from Dcs Plaincs, 111. 
From the Alumni Oflice wc have been advised that AMBROSE C. "BUZZ" MOR.\N»s wife Colleen Ann passed away on April 21. .-\ Mass was recently offered at Xotrc Dame, and I am sure that Buzz's many friends will add their prayers on hearing tins sad news. 
Tills is about it for now. llic volume and quality is based on the mutual interest and participation of the entire Class. Let's hear from YOU. 

From the Alumni Ofiice: A recent golf partner of Coach Ara Parscgliian in Chicago, GEORGE "MOOSE" CONNOR proposed his 8-nionth-old son as a team prospect. He weighed three times as much as papa at birth, so George figures he'll weigh 750 pounds as a player. JOHN O'CONNOR, associate editor of the Moni­tor, San Francisco, was elected secretary of the Catholic Press Assn. BILL ETHRIDGE , mgr. of industrial relations. Aetna-Standard DIv., Blaw-Knox Co., was invited to take part in the nintli biennial President's Confer­ence on Occupational Safety in Washington. The mfeling, to be opened by President Johnson, will bring together leaders of all segments of the economy from all parts of the nation to consider ways to re­duce tlie toll of occupational accidents. Actor Dean Jones, T\^'s "Ensign O'Toolc," has been chosen to play the part of the late DR. TOM DOOLEY in a movie entitled "The Tom Doolcy Stor>'." Jones reportedly asked, "How do you por­tray a saint?" Tom might have rejoined, "Never mind the saints; how do you portray Dooley?" DR. BILL BONWICH, assoc. prof, of marketing management at ND, has received a summer appoint­ment as a representative of the ND Foundation in the Chicago area. Bill is temporary chapter chair­man of a newly formed Micliiana chapter of the American Marketing Assn. DICK PEJEAU (CLU), an associate of the Mass. Mutual Life Ins. Co. agency in Cleveland, served as a panelist during a discussion, "How to Succeed in tlie Pension Market," on the tliird day of his com­pany's Leaders Club conference in Montreal. PETE PESOLI, assoc. prof, of English at St. Ed­ward's U. in Austin, is active in civil rights work there. DR. RALPH THORSON, head of the ND biology dept., charged that nc^vs reporting about cigarette smoking was prejudiced and has not been objective. A cigarette smoker himself, Ralph said they played dou*n one phase of the report whicli pointed to the mental health benefits of smoking. He said news media were not careful. In all instances, to note the report said direct causal relationship (to serious dis­eases) is not established. Ralph went on leave of 
60 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
absence this summer to help the American University 
of Beirut, Lebanon. 
BRO. R.\PHAEL WILSON, C.S.C., with three 

members of the Radiation Physiology unit of the ND 
Lobund Laboratorv', presented papers at a meeting 
of the Radiation Research Society. The papers dealt 
generally with the effects of radiation on germfree 
mice. The research program is supported by the 
US Public Health Service and the Office of Naval 
Research. After the Miami meeting he embarked on 
a European lecture tour under the sponsorship of 
the Office of Naval Research. At Milan, Italy, he 
will address an International Symposium on Radio­
sensitizcrs and Radtoprotccllve Drugs. He will con­
duct a seminar for the biologx- div. staff of the 
National Committee on Nuclear Energ\' in Rome 
and present a second seminar at the National Insti­
tute for Medical Research in London. 
JOE YONTO was spotlighted In the South Bend Tribtmc recently on his move to ND. Joe and Betty Rose and six children—Mary, 13; Carol, 12; Tony, 10; Bob, 9; Theresa, 6; and Joseph, 3—arc now living in Michigan City but are planning to move to South Bend by fall. 
ZIG CZ/\ROBSKI was ribbed about the nev%­ND Memorial Library by a friend who said: "I'll bet you never learned where the old library was." "It was that building where wc sat on the steps to have pictures taken for the yearbook," said Zig. 
RE\'". FR^VNCIS NE.\LY, O.P., MA M8, assoc. prof, of theology for the last 17 years, obscr\'cd his 25th anniversary of ordination in May. Tlie first of April Fr. Ncaly played visiting fireman when he inspected the South Bend Fire Department's new snorkel trucks with the city fire chief and the New York Citv Fire Chief, a friend of his. 
WILLIAM BALL JD M8, former prof, of con­stitutional law at VilIano\'a U. Law School, is gen­eral counsel of the Pa. Catholic Welfare Committee. He testified before the House Judiciary Committee in Washington which is considering proposals to cliange the Constitution to specifically permit prayers and Bible reading in public schools. He said he spoke as an individual, not as counsel to the Pa. Catholic body. Bill suggested that a constitutional amendment is not yet plainly necessary but added: "It will become so should the Supreme Court yield to those who today contest Its doctrine of neu­trality and who seek to bring about a total—and thus antagonistic—separation of Church and State." 
*MQ Leo L. Wesley 135 Driftwood Lane Rochester 21, N.Y. 
REUNIOX REGISTRANTS 

THOMAS T. ADAMS, PAUL \V. BAILEY, LEO A. BARNHORST, DONALD E. BECKERT, JOHN J. BOYER, ^^^LLIAM R. BROCKHOFF, JOHN H. BROGAN, THADDEUS J. BUDVN­KIEWICZ, ALBERT W. BURGSTAHLER. LOUIS 
J. BURNS, C. CARROLL CARTER, MAURICE 
F. CASEY, EDMUND J. CHARTIER, W. HOW­ARD CHITTENDEN, JAMES H. CLIFFORD, CHARLES L. COMES, C. BEN CONDON, REV. THOMAS L. DINGES, RICHARD D. DONOG­
1964 
 as the new Class scribe to  taking the picture? 
HUE, THOMAS P. DORE, J. ^^'ARD DRISCOLL, WILLIAM H. ENGLEHART, FR,\NCIS J. FAHEY, EDWARD J. FAY, AV'ILLIAM FISCHER, GEORGE D. FITZPATRICK, G. JOHN FITZ­PATRICK, FR.\NC1S A. FORGIONE, FRANCIS 
A. FORTON, STEPHEN J. GALLA, R. BUMNE GALLAGHER, DONALD J. GATENS, JOHN T. GILL, JOSEPH V. GOSLINE, ^VALTER B. H/WSER, THOMAS F. HANLON, ALBERT Mc HARDESTi', NOR.\L\N A. HENNESSY, OLIVER 
A. HINSMAN, HAROLD L. HOFFER, HAROLD 
G. HOFFMAN, R:\Y L. HOLDEN, ERNEST F. HUFFiUN, ALBERT J. IFFL,\NDER, ROBERT 
W. JORD,\N, ROBERT P. KANE, A. FR;\NK KAUFMANN, PETER J. KERNAN, GEORGE M. KORHUMEL, THOMAS V. KR,\SS, THOMAS 
M. KUPFER, OTIS P. LAMBERT, JOHN ,ST\ LaVIGNE, ROBERT J. LEi\NDER, RAYMONlfJ 
M. LELIAERT, LEON F. LaROCQUE, ALEX­ANDER F. LESKO, JAMES P. LEYDON, CVRL 
A. LIEBSCHER, ROBERT J. LYDEN, WILLIAM 
H. Mca\RT\', THO.\L\S G. McFARL.\ND, F. JOSEPH McGONIGLE, THOMAS J. McGUIRE, EUGENE F. MAGUIRE, ROBERT E. MAHONEY, JOSEPH T. MALONEY, FR.\NK P. MANCINO, LEE W. MARA, JAMES P. MARTIN, EDWARD 
J. MEEHAN, PATRICK H. MEENAN, JOHN 
F. MOREHEiXD, GER,\LD S. MURPHY, JAMES 
E. MURPHY, JOHN C. MURPHY, MLLIAM 
H. MURPHY, REV. JOHN A. MURRAY, JOSEPH 
G. NAUMA.N, CRVRLES J. NEFF, THO.NL\S J. NEFF, REV. WILLIAM J. NIEDHART, CSC, T. FR.\NK NOVAK, JOSEPH G. O'BOYLE, JOH: ^ 
E. O'BRIEN, JOSEPH F. O'BRIEN, THO.MAS V 0'BRIE.V, DANIEL -M. O'CONNELL, PAUL J. O'CO.V.VELL, JA.MES E. O'HALL0R,\N, JOSEPH 
T. 0'HARt\, EUGENE J. O'NEIL, JOHN D. O'ROURKE, ARTHUR K. PALUSO, PAUL E. PECICV.M, NEIL W. PETERS, ROBERT W. POWELL, BERNARD J. POWERS, STEPHE.\ 
B. PROVOST, HARRY A. QUINN, BRUCE W. RAFF, R,\Y.MOXD H. REISS, GEORGE A. RES­NIK, THO.MAS S. RIGGIO, CHARLES A. ROULT, RICHARD RYBAR, JOHN R. Sanl-AMOUR, JOHN H. SCHAEFER, R,\Y.MOND L. SCHLiiGER, ALBERT J. SCHREDER, KEN­NETH R. SCHUSTER, REV. J. PETER SHEE­HAN, MATTHEW J. SILECKI, EUGENE M. SNARSKI, R,\Y.MOND J. SOBOTA, MARTIN E. SODETZ, HURENCE P. STANTON, iUTrO * STERKER, CHARLES E. STEVINSON, WIL~ LIA.M D. STOCKMAN, ROBERT M. STRODE, GEORGE H. STUHR, FRANK E. SULLIVAN, JOHN F. SULLIVAN, JOSEPH V. SULLIVAN, L<\URENCE J. SUTTER, GEORGE E. SWEENEY, JOSEPH W. TOY, LOUIS E. TRACY, CARROLL 
B. TREDER, LEO J. VOGEL, JOHN C. WALSH, ROBERT G. WARRICK, ROBERT C. WEBER, MARTIN P. WENDELL, LEO L. \VESLEY, ROBERT J. WILLIAMS, THO.\L\S W. WIL­LIAMS, MARTIN E. ZERNICK. 
From the Alumni OHIcc: At the recent reunion LEO WESLEY was elected secretary of the Class to replace JOHN WALKER, wlio has held the post the past ten years. Leo will tr>' to fill the '49 column with your help and tlufv 
cooperation of the otlicr Class Officers, who arc l^rcsidcnt JACK DEMPSEY. Eastern VP JIM VlURPHY, Southern VP BOB AZZIZ, North 
Central VP JIM MARTIN, Western VP BOB CON­NELLY and Treasurer FR.\NK GAUL. 
Wc received the following letter dated June 15 from BOB CIANCHETTI: "I had hoped to keep my promise to myself to make the 15-year reunion this past weekend. The familiar cry of 'Wait till next year!' has again reared its untimely knell. 
"All is not lost, however, as two happy events have dulled the pain of my disappointment at not being able to return to the campus this year. Tlie first is my recent (last week) completion of a Iwo­ycar, full-time course of study at Adelphia University Scliool of Social Work whicli conferred upon mc the 
^egre c of Master of Social Work. 
t% "'The second happy event, occurring almost simul­taneously with the first, was my elevation to the position of assistant director of the family care division of the Suffolk County Department of Public Welfare. This necessitated the immediate assumption of new responsibilities. 
"If I'm not overwhelmed by other such blessings in 1969, I hope to join you and the class in renew­ing old friendships. All best wishes for what I know was a happy reunion. Sinct-ri'Iy, Bob." 
JON VITKUSKE has been named asst. director and administrative head of the laboratories—PoI>nner Research Laborator\-, Long Range Plastics Applica­tions Laboratory' and CC . Kennedy Laborator>'—for Dow Chemical Co. 
,\ CARROLL CARTER received his MBA degree from The American U. In '59. He married Rosemary Casey of Pittsburgh in '56 and they have four 
JAMES P. GHIGLIERI '51, has been elected president of Citizens National Bank of Toluca, III., cashier since 1954. He is married to Dorthiana Harrison from Evansvillc, Ind., who attended St. Mary's. 
-They have three children, Cathy, Jinmiy 
•^dnd Carol. Besides various offices in the Illinois Bankers Assn., grand knighthood of the K. of C. and presidency of Rotary, Jim has been an active member of the Notre Dame Club of Peoria and has con­tributed considerably to the basketball future at the University. In the past three years Toluca (pop. 1000) High School has produced three All-State cagcrs, and Jim has been primarily responsible for the matriculation of freshman guard standout John Bernard! and 6'-6" Tony Vignali, Avho begins studies in September at Notre 
^Dame. 
children. He has been president of Sommcrfeld Machine Co., Braddock, Pa., hca\'y general ma­chinists building steel mill parts and heavy special macliincry for the steel industr>- and metal working firms. 
JIM FARRELL has been appointed mgr. of the GE Co, Power Distribution Division's newly created international business development operation. Jim will have his headquarters in Pittsficld, Mass., and will presumably become active in the ND Club of the Berkshircs. 
MIKE DcCICCO will assist in the development and selection of the US Olympic fencing team. He reported to the Olympic training camp at East Slroudsburg, Pa. on June 7 for a two-week stay. July 3 to 11 was a tournament at Atlantic City with the finalists moving to the World's Fair on July 13. Selection of the team followed. 
REV. JAMES SHILTS CSC was elevated to the faculty rank of assistant professor of phvsics. 
LOUIS DI CIOV.VNNI, asst. proL of Law was featured in the May newsletter of the Boston U. College of Business .Administration .-Mumni .-Vssn., and it was announced that he has been promoted to the rank of assoc. prof. To recent alumni and to the student body he is affectionately known as "Pro­fessor D. G. of Greenacrcs"' and a class advisor whose office door is always open to any student. .A large portion of the article was congratulating him on his receiving the ND Boston Club "Man of the Year" award and quoting the plaque he received. 
FR.-\NK NUELLE has been named assistant di­rector (adininistralive) of Stauffer Chemical Co. Research Center at Chauncey, .V.Y., and will be res^ponsiblc for the Center's administrative affairs a> well as for the provision of research supporting ser^'ices. 
A. aVRLTO.V GILBERT and construction partner JOHN DOLAN '50 were featured by the busi­ness and financial editor of the Arizona Republic (Phoenix) .as "Busiiicss Based on Teamwork." Carl-tun and John met at an aUinini dinner in Phoenix, and from that meeting came the present company of Gilbert and Dolan. They arc well known for their progressive attitude toward construction and have been leaders in the structural concrete field since they first went into heavy construction after starting ouc building houses. .\ banker once told them they were too honest. 
FR.\NK SULLIV.VN (CLU) will again ser^e on the executive coniniittee of the Million Dollar Round Tabic of the National .Assoc, of Life Underwriters. Frank has qualified for the Round Tabic for ten consecutive years by selling a million dollars of new life insurance each vear. 
BRO. JUST PACZESNY CSC, former superior and principal of Reilz Memorial High School in Evansvillc, now holds the same job at Holy Trinity High School in Chicago. 
LOUIS B. COHEN received his MA from Michi­gan U. specializing in librarianship. 
Our sympathy to Mrs. T. P.ATRICK FIN.VN, who wrote and told us of Pat's death from cancer Januar\-H in Ford Hospital, Grosse Pointe Park, Midi. "Please pray for Pat and our family of seven children under 12 vears of aije. Mrs. Finan." 
REV. PHILIP L. HANLEY OP .MA '49, member of the ND faculty for 17 years, obser\cd his 25th annivcrsarv- of ordination in Mav. 
BRO. GERO.VriUS .McCARTHY CSC MS M9 has been appointed superior and principal of Catho­lic Central High School, Monroe, Mich. 
•C A  Richard F. Hahn  
3  "  47  Emerson  Rd.  
Glen Rock,  N.J.  

REUNION REGISTRrVNTS FR.\NK G. KELLY, ROBERT V. WELCH. 

From the Alumni Office: 
BOB RUETZ received his doctor of music degree from Indiana U. in June. He holds the position of assoc. prof, of voice at Southwest Missouri State College and is director of the college's opera work­shop and chamber singers. Bob and Pierrette, with children Denise, Robert and Michael, are presently living in Sprinnfictd, Mo. 
DR. JLM dvRBERRY, assoc. proL of chemical engineering at ND, has been appointed a consulting editor for the scries of chemical engineering texts published by the McGraw Hill Co., N.Y., and will determine (while serving on the editorial board) the nature of the firm's chemical engineering books. 
F. JERO.ME "JERRY" SWEENEY, son of FRi\NK SWEENEY '19 has been in Memphis, Tenn., since the first of the year as a partner in an accounting firm. 
FRxVNK HURLEY, head of the credit dept. of the Indiana National Bank, Indianapolis, has been promoted to vice-president. 
Our sympathy to AL\LCOLM DOOLEV on the death of his brother Edward. Ed was killed in an auto accident on April 22. 
DICK GAGNON JD *50, formerly v-p and secre­tary of Sollitt Construction Co., South Bend, has been elected executive v-p and secretary. 
•C I Robert Klingcnbcrgcr 
^ • 3405 Thames Dr. Ft. Wayne, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANT JAMES W. FRICK. 

From the Alumni Office: BRO. R/\YMOND FLECK, C.S.C., addressing the St. Edward's U. student body at a rare general as­sembly, explained how events in intercreedal rela­tions were changing for the better and that Inter­racial justice was hastening to the fore. He men­tioned the "war on poverty" and the coming "Ken­nedy round" talks in Gene\-a as e-xaraplcs of changes in society. Indicating that the individual 
WILLIAM J. REAGAN '51 Personnel ^tlieel for American Motors 

Appointment of William J. Reagan as manager of personnel services of American Motors Corporation was announced June 30 by George E. Gullen Jr., vice-president for industrial relations. 
Bill, a native of Kenosha, Wis., has been salaried personnel manager at the company's Central Office in Detroit. In his new capac­ity he will be responsible for all employee programs dealing with communications, benefits, personnel procedures, services, sug­gestion plan and other phases of industrial relations. 
.•\fter graduation from Notre Dame, Bill joined Nash Motors at Kenosha in 1951 in the employment department, and subse­quently ser\cd as employment manager at Kenosha, personnel manager of the Detroit plant, and super\-isor of salaried personnel in Detroit. 
Bill is married to the former Elaine Probst of Milwaukee. The couple and their four daughters—^Mary Ellen, Patricia, Kath­leen and Colleen—live at 14948 Glaston­buTy in Detroit. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 61 
CLASS OF '54 on their lO-ycar Reunion sccnied the most carefree Class on canipus and were inordinately proud of ihcir capacity to consume record-breaking quantities of a certain effervescent beverage in order to receive full value for the reunion fee. Although their account may have been overdrawTi, even they couldn't "break the bank" this year. 
must Icam to cope with these changes, he said that once we have a grasp of the unchangeable principles of life. We can confront the changes of society. Bro. Raymond, after two terms as president, has been reassigned to the office on a continuing basis. 
.AL ZEISZ was program cliaimian for the South Bcnd-MIshau'aka Board of Realtors at their recent meeting. 
ED MEAGHER was promoted to general market­ing manager for Ampcrex Semiconductor and Re­ceiving Tube Div.j .\mperex Electronic Corp. 
WALT COLLINS, editorial writer and former reporter for the South Bend Tribune, was named associate editor and will continue to direct the con­tents of the editorial page. 
BRO. REX HENNEL, C^.C , has been appointed superior and headmaster at Gilmour Academv, Gates Mills, O. 
Congratulations to the countrv' squire. TOM MURRAY LLB *51 who was one of the five out of twenty victorious In the election to the Penn-Harris­^fadlson (townships) School Board. Another LLB LENTON G. SCULTHROP, Corporation and Se­curities Commissioner for the State of Mich., ad­dressed the Western Wa\-ne-Oakland County Board of Realtors. 
• q J Harry L. Buch 600 Board of Trade Bldg. WheeUng, W.Va. 
From the Alumni Office: CARL CUNNINGHAM has received a two-year fellowship of $5,000 per year at the U. of So. Cali­fornia so that he can become a trained music critic VINCE POST « ^ appointed to the staff of Fred Wittner Public Relations, Inc., as an account execu­tive. A specialist in the cliemical, plastics and pack­aging markets, lie will ser\'ice the chemical div. of Eastman Chemical Products, a subsidiary of East­man Kodak Co. LEONARD KILIAN received an XIA with a major in education from Trinity College, Hartford, Conn., on June 14. Congratulations to CARL EIBERGER on becom­ing a partner of his law firm in Denver. RON* ZIER, formely mgr. of American Cyanamid Co.^s press relations dept., has joined the staff of Howard Chase Associates Inc., New York based in­ternational public relations firm, as an account exec­utive. JOE GULDE was presented with the 1963 Jaycee Distinguished Service Award in .^marillo. You can keep up on the latest in JOHNNY DEE*s househunting by reading Joe Doyle's sports column in the South Bend Tribtme. Must be nice to have free ads. Fine arts grad JOHN E. ARMSTRONG lias been appointed editor of the Southern California edition of T\ ' Guide magazine. Jack, who has been with the magazine since 1938 in various editorial posts, was previously head of the West Coast programming unit. Congratulations to Jack and his family at 12976 MacNeil St., Sylmar, Calif., and to his dad, ND Alumni Secrelarv- JIM ARMSTRONG '25. Finally, JOSEPH W. BYRNE has been appointed superx*tsor of the light vehicles section at the FoH 

62 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 
Motor Co. research and engineering center. Joe joined Ford in *5G and prior to this appointment was a development engineer and administrative assistant to the chief engineer. He's an officer of S.AE and the XD Club of Dearborn, Mich., and lives in Dearborn Heights vrith wife Doris and eight kids. 
•C ^ Da\id A. McElvain 2328 Alexander Terrace Homewood, 111. 
From the .Mumni Office: 
Our deepest apologies to Kevin MIcliael Gibbons, son of Mr. and Mrs. JAMES GIBBONS, who was erroneously listed in the births in the last Issue as Ke\in Patrick. One of Jim's bo>-s from coaching days, Ste\'c Blass, is now a pitclier for the Pirates. 
ALAN PANDO was recently elected vice-president of Benton & Bowles. Neiv York public relations firm. FR. BLAISE HETTICH, O.S.B., has been busy speaking before women's literarv groups. DR. EMIL HOFM.AN has been directing the In­stitute for Chemlstr\' at the ND Summer Session. 
Afilton J. Beaudlne 
•54 
11 Kimberlin Lane BellcviUc, ni. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
JACK ALEXANDER, RICHARD P. ANTON, RICHARD F. ASH, MILTON J. BEAUDINE, GORDON N. BERGQUIST, JAMES A. BERN­HART, DONALD P. BEDEL, DAVID C BICKEL, JOHAV .M. BIERBUSSE, JOHN "PAT' BOLAND, PHILIP R. BREH.M, MARVIN "JACK" BREZETTE, JAMES M. BROW'NE, JOHN G. BRY,VN, "PETE" BUCHEIT, WIL­LIA.M E. BURKE, ROBERT N. BURNS, JOHN 
P. CASEY, WILLIAM F. CAVANAGH, -MI­CHAEL J. CELESTE, ROBERT F. CHICKEY, EDWARD J. CHRISTIANO, ANDREW C. COR­RAO, ROBERT F. CRESPi', WILLIA.M J. DALY, JOHN E. DANIELS, JOSEPH C. D'ANTOXI, JOHN L. DARAGO, FRANCIS M. DEAN, JO­SEPH J. DELISI, RICHARD F. DELMONTE, RICHARD L. DeSCHRlVER, A. DAVID DE­WEESE, ROBERT J. DEWEY, JOHN C. DON­AHER, WALTER A. DUSCHKA, WILLIAM A. DW\'ER, RICHARD L. EHR, CVRL F. EIBERG­ER, JOSEPH J. ENZLER, VERNON P. ESSI, ROBERT N. ETTELBRICK, WILLIA.M J. FAI.MON, CARL J. FAR,\H, WILLIA.M DA FAR.MER, ROBERT A. FARNBAUCH, JAMES C T FERRON, GER..\RD J. FINNEY, P.ATRICK J. FOLEY, DAVID B. FOY, ROBERT J. FRIES, ROBERT B. FROLICHER, JOSEPH A. GAL­LAGHER, ANTHONY R. GARRUTO, NORBERT 
J. GASSENSMITH, RICHARD E. GERBRACHT, JA.MES R. GIBBS, ROBERT W. GREENE, EDWARD J. GRIFFIN, JOHN R. GRINDEL, WILLIAM C. HAMEL, JAMES HA.MLIN, RICH­ARD F. HA.MMER, WILLI.\M J. HANK, JA.MES S. HEARONS, JOHN E. HERBERT, PAUL T. HIGGINS, EDWARD W. HOGAN, EUGENE W. HOWLEY, GEORGE H. HUBBARD, WILLIAM J. HUBER, ROBERT A. INEICH, RICHARD F. IRWIN, BRIAN P. JENNINGS, -MEL R. JIGAN-TI, JOSEPH B. JOYCE, DAVIlk. 
K. KEFFLER, RICHARD D. KELCH, PAUL m KELLEY, EUGENE M. KELLY, JOHN E. \ 

DALLAS — New oHiccrs of the Notre Dame Club of Dallas arc (from left): Kenneth Anderson, 2nd %-ice-president; Warren Higgins, president; Jake IVItiser Jr., treasurer; John Rogers, secretary; and Fred Eichom, 1st vice-president. 
1964 

JKELSCH, MARSHALL L. KINNEY, JAMES P. [;iNTZ, PAUL M. KRAUS, HERMAN L. KRIEGSHAUSER, RAYMOND J. KUROWSKI. JOHN J. LATTNER, MICHAEL P. LEVIS, JOHN 
D. LIBERT, RICHARD M. LOEFFLER, WIL­LIAM B. LOFTUS, JAMES M. McCOMB, JO­SEPH V. MCGINN, ROBERT L. MCGLYNN, MICHAEL W. McGRATH, JOHN A. McGRAW, GUY G. MACINA, JAMES L. MacINNES, EDWARD E. MADIGAN, JOSEPH D. MADI­GAN, ANTHONY M. MANDOLINI. FRANK F. MANGIALARDI, JOSEPH I. MARGUET, RICH­ARD T. MARTIN, KENNETH E. MELCHIOR. JOSEPH A. MESEC, PAUL A. MINNICH, THOMAS F. MOORE, RAYMOND H. MORAN, WILLIAM J. MORLEY, EDWARD S. MRAZ, 
'AMES P. MULLANE, JOHN A. MULLANE, DANIEL D. MUNSON, RICHARD F. MURPHY, THOMAS J. MURPHY, REV. JOSEPH E. NASH, THOMAS J. NESSINGER, MICHAEL K. NE­VILLE, DAVID E. NOLAN, GERALD E. O'CON­NOR, WILLIAM J. OFFUTT. TIMOTHY D. O'HARA, RICHARD A. O'HORO, CHARLES J. O'NEIL, JAMES M. O'NEIL, THOM/\S J. PARSLEY, JOHN A. PIGGOTT, RICHARD C. PILGER, JOHN F. PITTAS, MAX J. PL.\NTE, ROBERT D. PODEN, FRANCIS J. RAITH, WILLIAM D. REYNOLDS. JAMES J. RICH­ARDS, ROBERT S. RIGALI, THOMAS J. ROGERS, RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL, JOHN 
L. ROSSHIRT, WILLIAM J. RYAN, THOMAS [•5. RYDER. JOSEPH P. SASSANO, J. BARRY "•SAVAGE, MICHAEL C. SCANLON, JOHN A. 
SCHLOEGEL, WILLIAM J. SCHMITZ, WALTER 
O. SCHNEIDER, JOHN P. SCHWENK, EDWARD 
F. SHAUGHNESSY. JOSEPH P. SHELLEY, W. THOMAS SHORT. LAURENCE F. SOVIK. CHARLES F. SPICKA, STEPHEN A. STECK­BECK, JOHN E. STODDARD. JOSEPH H. STUEVER, RICHARD D. SULLIVAN, JOHN J. SWIFT, RAYMOND M. TIERNEY, RICHARD 
H. TIERNEY, JOHN R. TRUCANO, MARTIN 
H. VIETH, CHARLES G. WAGNER, WALTER a WAGNER, JOHN F. WALLACE, ROBERT T. WALLACE, ROBERT J. WARD, LEONARD M. WELCH, DANIEL A. WHALEN, DAVID D. WILSON. WILLIAM S. WOODWARD, ROBERT 
M. WRIGHT, DONALD C. ZECH, JOSEPH A. ZIEMBA. 
L Whew! That ALUMNUS editor is tough. Our Re­union is June 12, 13 & 14 and the copy deadline is June 15. If this article smells stis^tly of a popular malt beverage, or if it doesn't make too much sense please understand it's being written under difHcult conditions! Pressure of a deadline and the noise and excitement of the Reunion in progress. This bed is hard and I got stuck, as usual, with the upper. Ex­cept for beer on the desk, things arc pretty much the same (O.K.! So wc had beer in '54). 
It's hard to write about a Reunion. What Vd write wouldn't mean much to the noisy group out in the hatl, and those of you not here wouldn't believe it. Here's to 1969. 
I've got a new address (tnalty. having left De­

catur, 111., and the A. E. Stalcy .Mfg. Co. for Belle­["'ille. 111., and the Monsanto Co. Send vour letters to S i Kimberlin Lane, Belleville, 111. 
Got some mail—forwarded—so here goes: Alic" and GENE HENRY scored with a baby girl, Rutli Patricia, on Feb. 20, their second girl. They ai n have a bov. Gene is teaching EE at ND. Tic TED BYRNESES had their fourth child. Margare: .Ann. on March 8. Ted is an engineer at Bell La'i3 in Murray Hill. X.J., and is studying for his PhD. CHRIS MALONE wrote regretting that he couldn't be here at ND this weekend. His wife T€)nie is cr:­ptxting No. f> at this ver>' moment. (I'll drink to that.) Guess who's thinking about us while baskint in the Cuba sun at fun-filled Guantananio Bay? JACK KEENAN, of course. Jack headed down to Castroland about June 1. Can be reached at c/o 
rXav>- No. 115 F.P.O.. .\.Y., N.Y. 09593. Jack i; Lnarried to the former Sally Marie Vadnais and thry have three girls. 
From the questioimaires, which only about half nT you returned, comes the following: BERNIE TR.'\CEY is a circuit designer for Hughes aircraft. Bernie, his wife Mar\- and their year-old daughter reside at 916 N. Inglewowl Ave., Inglewoinl, Calif. 90302. Bernie would like to hear from his old buddies NE/VL THO.MPSON and BOB BALLENGEE. Grcichen and RICHARD DENIGER with their three children are living at 6107 Quarlz Mtn. Rd. in Scottsdale, Ariz. Dick earned his MB.-\ at U. of Wisconsin and is self-employed as an investment counselor. At this time let us all stop and shed a tear for BILL GUILFOILE and the poor N.Y. Yankees who need some pitching like I need another brew (excuse mc for a moment—be right back). 
•Bin's living at 245 Chestnut Ave., Bogota, X.J., with 
TRIPLE CITIES —UN D Night principals in Binghamton, N.Y., included: (L-r.) Msgr. Francis J. Harrison '33, chaplain; Joseph P. Galloway *51, Club president; Thomas Benedict '49, ^-icc-presidcnt and ND Man of the Year; and Edward "Moose" Krause *34, ND athletic director, who spoke in behalf of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
his wife Loretta and two children. JOE GIL­SINGER, wife and five-plus live at 805 Taft St., Sun Prairie, Wis. Joe is in labor relations with the Wisconsin Telephone Co. GEORGE WELSH, 1633 DeBann Rd.. CardifT-by-the-Sea, Calif. 92007. would be happy to hear from JOE LEONETTI, DICK GOBBIE, WALT STAUB. LOU .MAFFIE and ROG VALDISERRI. George has earned his LL.B and is presently a Captain in the USMC. He and his wife Barbara have three girls. One of our few bachelors, FRANK BASISTA is with Douglas .-\ircraft Co. and enjoying Sunny California at Malibu—18542 To­panga Canyon Beach Rd. (R.\Y "BROCK" LAV­ERTY, write!) I think someone has the fire hose out. I'll be right back. Now it's Saturday. TIic sun rose as I climbed into my upper. Stayed up late engaging in some scholastic activity—I took a poker "lessen" till 5 a.m. with GERRY FINNEY, ED HOGAN, BOB RIGALI, DAVE DEWEESE, and some others. We consumed 21 kegs of beverage last night, which was a fev\* more than any of the other groups back on campus. (Some help from the old men of '44. Ed.) Gerry Finney complained all night that he's never seen his name in print in the ALUMNUS. GERRY FINNEY, GER. FINNEY, 
PITTSBURGH —Th e dance planners shown slaving anonymously for the Scholarship Fund in the last issue have been identified as Mrs. Frank F. Conte 
(left) and Mrs. Donald W. Bebcnek. Sorry, girls. 
G. FINNEY (that's five times now). Gerry is now in Memphis, Tcnn.. married mth four. For kicks: the fattest, back this year, ivas JOHN STODDARD, who claims he still plays basketball once a week. Running a close second was DICK TIERNEY. Dick helped us with the 21 kegs by drinking one all by himself. Dick's married to the former Virginia Bymc and he told us all last night (and I quote) "Ginny is the greatest to ever come doun the Pike.'* The greyest ivas JOHN LATTNER. The guys who were probably least changed in 10 years were PETE SCHWENK and VERN ESSI. The only casualty (so far) was BILL MORLEY, who got tangled up with a chair (when he felt). What would you think of someone who would stay at the Morris Inn in pref­erence to Dillon Hall? We had three in that cate­gory—ED MADIGAN, WALT WAGNER and BILL MORELY. 
Oh! We had a class election. Officers are: Presi­dent, DICK PILGER; Vice-Presidents (4). PAUL KELLY, JOE D*ANTONI, ED MADIGAN, and BILL GUILFOILE; Treasurer, GENE HENRY; and I'll remain secretary for another five. DICK ROSENTHAL presented the slate of officers at an election held yesterday evening sometime or other. The *'Phynquc" of the year award has to go to TOM CALDER, who not only stayed at the Inn but brought bis wife along. 
At the banquet, BOB FRIES won half a dozen 
golf balls for hitting the longest drive for the week­
end, some 372 >-ards. BOB WRIGHT hit the longest 
3-wood in the Volcano Restaurant, but all he got 
%\-as a request to leave. The endurance award goes 
to TONY M.ANDOLINI and PAUL KRAUS, who 
were seen in the pink morning mist heading out for 
another 18 holes on Sunday morning. DON ZECH 
won the comeback award. After remaining completely 
sober Friday, he downed eight manhattans in 40 
minutes before dinner Saturday. The "Luckiest'* 
winner has to be ED HOGAN, who drew a pair of 
aces to a pair of aces in a nothing wild, five-card 
draw game. (I ^%'as second luckiest—I had dropped 
before the draw.) The latest to arrive was JACK 
PITTAS. Jack got to the courtyard just in lime to 
have a few beers from the record breaking 36th keg about 1 am Sunday. Better late than nc%'er. Jack stayed up till 5 a.m. Mass and then drove back. (Thanks for the "above and beyond" effort, ole buddy.) The "Friendliest" and "MiMt Relaxed" au-ards both go to PAT BOLAND. (I ch'dn't know Pat ^vhilc at school—my misfortune.) JOE STUEVER shocked me by not wearing his boots and furthermore he doesn't even own a pair anymore. Joe is married, has three girls, lives at 3018 Solano N.E., Albuquerque, N.M. 87110. Joe would like to hear from WALLY CASHMAN, CHUCK PICK, BOB REITZ and JIM BUCKEN.MEYER. DR. TONY GARRUTO was a little fatter (weren't we all!) but looked great. Oh! Second to John L. as greyest was MIKE SCANLON (3824 Patricia Dr., Columbus, O.). Mike is an investment broker and has two boys and two girls. KEN MELCHIOR, 7600 W. 61, Overland Park. Kan., is with .Merrill Lynch P F & S and almost ruined my weekend constantlv reminding mc of Brunswick—a big loser. .\ big question: Did FRED M.-\NGIL.ARDI really change his name to FRED M.-1NN or was he just putting us on? Anyway, Fred Mann looked ready and fit. whoever he was. FRANK RAITH and I had a long talk, none of which I could remember to tell my wife. Frank and Pat have three children, live in Skaneateles, N.J., where Frank is a v-p with Jordan Wire and Cable Co. Inc. Among the big losers were BOB CHICKEY, who got took on the links by TOM SHORT and DICK ROSENTHAL. PAUL KELLY was a poker loser but kept up the spirit by breaking cver\*one up with his jokes. PETE SCHWENK lost his plane tickets, which were found an hour after he left for Chicago by car. JOHN ".ARNIE" LIBERT got his 18 holes in but never told his score. John has five kids, lives in Br\*n Mawr, Pa., and coincidently. ED MRi\Z lives at 835 
E. Br>n Mawr St.. Roselle. 111. (Four children, attornev.) Ed would like to hear from D\S MOTZ, JOHN KRIEG, PAT STONE, ED TRUSEL.V and TO.M ME^\G/\N. 
Here's a report on the Librar>" from a former c\"nic (nic). It's truly fantastic. You can't fail to be impressed by its class, its beauty and its func­tionaIit>'. It cost over 12.5 million, has no mortgage, and was used by five times more students this May than the old library in May, 1963 (about 4,000 per day). I'm convinced! 
Big JOHN DANIELS w^is back, from 1524 N. Kentucky St., .Arlington, Va. John has three girls and is with the FAA in D.C. Some of the return "Regulars" who'll probably be back at our Reunion Party after the Purdue game were BILL BURKE, BOB ETTEBRICK, D.AN MUNSON, JOE JOYCE. JOE .MESEC, BILL TONKA CAVANAUGH, JOE "BARRY" SAVAGE, BILL REYNOLDS. J. D. 
?i^otre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 1964 
MADIGAX and GENE HO\SXEY. RAY TIERXEY had the wildest sports jacket and the guts to wear it. BOB FROLICHER (five children) wonders who it was asleep, snoring up a storm, at 5:00 am Saturday morning in the John. (TIic door was locked 50 I guess we'll never know.) JIM Mac­INNI5 was back, a little thinner, but still hale and hardy. Jim's at 19210 W. Davison, Detroit, Mich.— would like to hear from BUZZ HELFRICK, GEORGE KOLASSA, ROM! Z.\NnTE and PHIL BREHM. 
Basically a Reunion is a chance. A chance to relax, drink a little, yell and sing a little, recapture —if for only a few moments—some lost youth, and mostly to associate with a real great buncli of guys. Wc had only about 170 back but it was hard to meet and talk with them all. Harder yet, influenced by tlic antber brew, was to remember all the inci­dents and names of Interest to you all. Forgive mc. Some others back enjoving the opportunities w*cre TOM MOORE, BILL' WOODWARD and DICK .4SH. D.WE BICREL flew- up in his own plane from Albuquerque and *'MICK" ^fORAN made it back for the first time in ten years. DAVE FOY was back, driving up in the Bcnz with JIM **TH£ BERN" BERXH.\RT. DICK AXTON, JACK ROS­SHIRT and DICK EHR were among others I talked with. JIM BROWTs'E was back and stayed up all night Friday discussing rules of evidence and drinking beer with a Iaw>*cr group. All they ac­complished was to keep a lot of us awake and disrupt a good poker game. Saturday w*as more subdued than Friday. Both days had activity lasting about 20 hours each, I managed about six hours sleep in two nights and regretted that I couldn't last longer. 
It all ended Sunday morning after Mass. There were few goodbyes, wc just kind of drifted away making a resolution to be at the Purdue game and of course back again in '69. Even the speeding ticket my brother-in-law, GEORGE HUBBARD, got on the way back didn't spoil the good feeling that lingered on. As I pulled in the drive, thinking of about 16 hours of sack time, I was greeted by my well-rested wife, ''Happy Anniversary,*' she said as she held up a chilled bottle of bubbly. Just what I needed—champagne! I smiled and popped the cork and eventually fell asleep in my chair. 

From the Alumni Ofiicc: AL WALTER is still busy calculating the risks and premiums for the N.Y. Life Ins. Co. and has been promoted to associate group actuary. DICK ROSENTHAL has added the South Bend mental health dinner to his long list of toastmastcr chores, and OTTO HILBERT spoke to members of the Excliange Club recently in Colorado Springs. DICK GERBRACHT has been elected a v-p of McCann-Marschalk Co. Dick has been with the agenc>''s Cleveland ofiice for nine years and super­vises the company's service to Standard Oil Co, (Ohio). FR. DAVE BURRELL CSC was the guest speaker at Gilmour Academy's commencement exercises this June. TOM McHUGH, former Ohio high school coacli of the year, has joined tlie football staff of Xavler U, and will scr\'c as their defensive line coach. DUKE RANK has been named "Professor of the Year" by the student body of St, Joseph's College, Rensselaer, Ind. Tliis Is Rank's second year of tcacliing English at a small college. He formerly taught at Arizona State U. xvhcrc. In I9G2. he was honored with a faculty award from the ASU New­man Club. At present he Is a PhD candidate at ND and lives on the campus of St. Joseph's with his wife, Lee (Novak), and his three children, Elizabeth, Christopher and James-Jonathan. TTicy arc expecting another child in November, JI.M BIGGINS, son of Mr. and ^^rs, "W, J. Higgins, Racine, Wis., entered ND in Sept., 1950, and dropped out for two and a half years after his Sophomore Year. He re-entered In Jan., '55, and graduated In Jan., *57, with a PhB, major In ac­counting and minor in philosophy. Tlirough the Placement Bureau at ND, he was employed by the IBM Corp. Data Processing Div. from Feb., '57 until July, '58. Because of family Illness, he returned home and worked In the family business, The Hig^ns Hobnob, a restaurant and cocktail lounge, from July, '58, until Sept., '59. .At thb time he entered St. Francis Major Scminar>' to take his theological studies there and on Memorial Day, May 30, 1964, in Madison, Wis., he was ordained a priest for the Diocese of Madison. He celebrated his First Solemn High Mass at St, Edward's Church in Racine on Sun., May 31, I9(J1. at 12:15 P.\L FR, CHARLES McCARRAGHER CSC was in attendance. Fr. Jim's new address Is: Rev. James T. Higgins, 747 Hackctt St.. Beloii, Wis. 53511. YATES HAFNER is instructor in literature at Antloch College, Yellow Springs, Ohio. 
64 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 
DR. JOHN H. HADDOX '55, '56, '59 Honored Texan, Extender of Traditions 

The Notre Dame Club of El Paso, Tex,, meeting last spring in Juarez, Mexico, was one of many ND Clubs effectively imple­menting the national theme of Universal Notre Dame Night—"Extending the Tradi­tion of Great Teaching." Their choice for Notre Dame Man of the Year was a man who has lived up to that motto in many ways—^as a teacher, counselor, administra­tor and researcher, as well as a three-degree subscriber to the teaching at Alma Mater. 
Possessor of A.B., M.A, and Ph.D. de­grees from Notre Dame, Dr. John Haddox is head of the department of philosophy and ps>xhoIogy at Texas Western College. He has been awarded a research professor­ship to study and write on Mexican phi­losophy and has authored two published papers on the subj'ect. Jack reviews books for Ave Maria and Sign magazines, and at TWC he is also foreign student advisor and a member of the editorial board of Texas \Vestcm Press. 
Among many academic affiliations. Jack Haddox is a vice-president of the Rocky Mountain Council for Latin American Studies and a past president of the New Me.\ico Philosophical Societ>'. He is a di­rector of Crossroads of the Americas as well as a member of the American Catholic and Southwest Philosophical Societies and the Serra Club. 
An active member of the Notre Dame Club, Jack resides at 3307 Cornwall Rd,, El Paso, with his wife and five children. 
LIONEL BALDWIN has been appointed acting dean of the College of Engineering at Colorado State U. as of July I. 
JOE GOEBEL has recently accepted a position as an accountant in the asst. comptroller's div. with the Am, Telephone and Telegraph Co. in New York. 
DR. CHARLES ALLEN, recently promoted to assoc prof, of metallurgical engineering at ND, is one of 13 University faculty members cliosen by the US Atomic Energy Comm. to conduct researcli at 
1964 

its Sa\'annah River Lab. and Plant In So. Carolina 
this summer. In addition to carr>-ing out his ow^ 
research program, he will conduct a graduate-lever 
course in "dislocation theory-" for the Iaborator>*'s 
metallurgists and solid state physicists. 
CAPT. RAY BUBICK has been elected to mem­

bership in Sigma Tau at tlic U. of Colorado. He is 
attending under the ^\Ir Force Institute of Tech­
nology education program which provides selected 
USAF members the opportunity for resident training 
In scientific, engineering and other fields at civilian 
institutions and Industrial organizations. Ray, who is 
studying electrical engineering, gained the recogni­
tion for maintaining a consistently high academic 
position In his class. 
JIM FREMGEN was recently named an associate 

professor of arcliitccturc at ND. ^ 
•CC Paul Fullmer 7344 N. Ridge Blvd. Chicago, 111. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

J. PATRICK O'MALLEY. RICHARD C. RU^VE. 
The annual class cocktail party is just around the corner) so make sure that you have tickets for the Purdue game, Oct. 3. After the game we'll get together in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn to renew the *'Era of Ara," If you haven't sent ii ^ that ticket request yet, get on the ball right now'jP While you're at it, get on the phone and round up several other guys for the homecoming trip. Class officers DICK BURKE and TOM CAREY ^^•^1I help coordinate cfTorts here In Chicago, but we're de­pending on those of you "in the bush" to get organ­ized and make this a success. 
First of all, a Class of *55 salute to REV. JOHN RYAN of Chicago, who was ordained May 23 in the Cathedral of St. Raymond in Jollet (III.). Sandra and I attended Father John's first Mass the following day at his home parish of St. Ethelrcda on the south side of Chicago. I hope that in some small way I represented the entire Class because a first Mass of a classmate is something special. I know that I felt a real glow of pride when Father John came down the center aisle to celebrate the Solemn High Mass. Incidentally, he now looks like a younger version of Father Ted. If he does half as well, he'll have don A a great job for God, country and Notre Damc.^ NEAL HALLORAN and FRANK LOLLI, who at­tended the evening reception, reported that half the Irish cisn of the south side turned out. I saw DAN SHANNON at the Mass, too. He looks mighty pros­perous, so I'll expect him to subsidize his fellow commerce graduate. Father John, down throng the years. 
To bring you up to date. Father John R^-an took his philosophy studies at St. Thomas Seminary in Denver and his theology work at St. Procopius Seminary In Lisle, just west of Chicago, Before entering the seminar}', he saw military scr\'ice in the HQ 7th Army Comptroller section at Stuttgart, Germany. Father John also worked at the south side plant of the US Steel Co., and In the audit depart-v ment of the South Shore National Bank. ^^ 
Father John will be assigned In the Joh'ct diocese, which is just southwest of Chicago, so if you're in this area, you'll probably be able to sec him. Let's see how good my memory Is. It seems to me that we now have three Class of '35 grads who found their vocation after battling through the u'ars with us. I'm thinking of JOE O'DONNELL, JIM SHERER, and now JOHN RYAN. If there are others, please get in touch with me so that wc can keep up with this most-Important category'. The rest of us certainly will need their prayers. 
Connecticut figures in a couple of Class moves recently, ED KELLY left the Chicago area and now can be found on Dogwood Court (.-Vrf!), North Stamford, Conn. On the other hand, BOB HAIDINGER moved from Old Greenwich, Conn ^ to 720 E. Hillcrcst Road, York, Pa. ^ 
Here arc a couple of news notes on gu^-s with interesting current hisior>'. WALT LANGFORD is an Air Force lieutenant these days. You can write him at 10th TAG Recon. Wing, Box 1667, APO 238, New York, ROSS BRi\CKNEY has It made teacliing English at Rollins College, Winter Park, Fla., where most of the coeds major In water skiing. BOB SWINDEMAN, who has been working In .\ustralia, now is back chasing atoms at Oak Ridge, Tcnn. (106 Cooper Circle). 
Don't forget that class cocktail party after the Purdue game, Oct. 3. How about guys like TOM ARL\S, TO.\f AR.\ISTRONG, JOHN B.ATTEL, AHLLARD BATTLES, JI.M CAMPBELL, GENE CAMOOSA, DICK DEICHNL\NN, FRED DE­LANY. WALT FIMIAN, TO.M FINNEGAX, RAY ^ 
GENDRON, TONY GENOVESE, RUDY HAM­AION'D, CHUCK HANLEY, PAUL KEMPER, ^O M KERNAN, TED L/\ZORCHAK, JOHN 
LEENEY, TOM McCOY, DICK McDONALD, JOHN NICHOLSON, DICK NIEDERRITER, DICK O'HARA, FR,\NK OLAZABEL, NICK PELLEGRINO, ANGELO PERCICH, MAURY REIDY (the Denver flash), ED REILLY, DENNY SAWINSKI, WILL SCHAEFER, BILL TICE, JOHN TOKAR, BILL VOOR, BOB VOYT, BILL WARD, JIM WATERS and BOB ZEIS showing up for this blast??? 
Here are a couple of real estate developments in Chicago. PHIL SHERIDAN is in the ranks of the homeowners with a small castle at 5608 S. Peoria St. JERRY PRASSAS has impressive near north side 
|diggings (rivaling Hugh Hefner) at 1316 N. Dear-
Rorn Park\vay. While on the subject of the Windy City, I can't forget to mention that MIKE WARD has another roomer at his house. This addition, a boy (Dennis), makes five for Mike and Harriet. As Mike puts it: "Another boy is cheaper than a power mower when it comes time to tackle that back yard." 
JI.M WALSH has headed back to South Bend (827 Patterson Drive) after living in Dayton. JOHN KURTZ has moved from Mason City to 850 Polk Blvd., Dcs Moines, Iowa. My old buddy AMEEL RASHID has taken his doctor's shingle from Mil­waukee to Peoria (111.), and you can send him regards at 1102 Stratford Drive. TOM SIERON headed for the sunny (?) climate of California 
^15^ 0 Simonds St., Granada Hills) after enjoying the easy life of Ohio. JOHN BATTALORA is a hard guy. He moved from Houston to our friendly suburb of Cicero (1808S. 5Qth Ave.) 
CHARLIE KLEE, who took it easy with me in journalism, went the opposite direction. He moved from Ohio (Dayton) to 1712 Cornell Drive, Norfolk, Va. Another new Virginian is NORB REINER, who gets his mail at 1806 Key Blvd., Arlington, Va. STEVE SCHLENGER now is an Oriole and Colt fan. He packed bag and baggage and headed for Baltimore (1090 N. Forest Park Ave.). PETE SUTHERLAND made a slight move in Rhode Island from Wanvick to Saunderstown (Box 288). DICK ^VILLIAMS switched fancy suburbs in West­chester County, moving from New Rochelle to White Plains (Box 26, Gcdney Station). What do they do, Dick, send the mail out by dog sled? DON EW­^AN K took possession of a new beach house out in California. He now can be found, swim suit and beer in hand, at 742 — 27lh St. Manhattan Beadi. A word for the gals: If that husband of yours hasn't got enough energy left at the end of the day to follow up on this '53 class cocktail party, take the bull by the horns (no pun intended) and line up several other couples. The campus still will be beautiful on Oct. 3, and Purdue will be the first home victim of the new Irish. Tliere arc some guys —like JOE BAU.\t, JOE BAUMIE, DICK CAN­FIELD, JOHN GVNNA, HOWARD DELINE, FR,\NK DELL'APA, MIKE FISCHELLA, BOB FISHER, AL GERMAIN, GENE GETTY, PAUL HANLON, BOB H,\NZEL, TO.M KEWLEY, BILL KILBURG, BOB LeME.N"SE, BILL LEONARD, DAVE McGOUGH, JI.M .McGUIRE, DAVE NO­
\N, JI.M NORTON, JOE O'MALLEY, ED 
%RTH, SAL PEREZ, AL PETR,\NICK, JOHN REILLY, L,\MBERT REINHART, JOHN SCHA­NO, S.\M SCHARBER, DON TOTTE.V, JOHN TROGOLO, JIM WEINL.\DER, and BILL WELCH —who will swing into action, of course, without any prodding from the girls. 
How manv of vou luckv people are on the mailing list of "Sincerely Yours" by FR.\NK CLELi\ND? All of you should be because as Frank (or his ghost­writer) states in the preamble, the publication con­tains "infonnation of special interest for men and women who want financial security for themselves and their businesses—now and in the future." I guess that includes everybody. Frank thinks his portrait at the top is impressive, but I've seen better looking 
(olitical candidates. 
'Our sincere condolences to MIKE FOX on the death of his father, who was one of the countr>''s leading sportswriters. He was Indiana's best known columnist, and one of the biggest boosters of the state's great high school basketball. In fact, he coined the phrase "Hoosier Hysteria." 
As a service to the Internal Revenue Service, I am providing the following new addresses: GEORGE MARR (5110 Oriole St., Beaumont, Te.x.), JOE ORSO (822 Franklin St., Williamsport, Pa.), LEO ZATTA (322 Overlook Dr., Neptune N.J.), JOHN VINCEN'T (4713 Apple St., Olympii, Wash.), BOB STUKJV S (57 Buckmaster Rd., Westwood, Mass.), RON SMITH (325 Cedar St., St. Paul, Minn.), KEVIN O'DONNELL (1208 —6th Ave., S.E., Rochester, Minn.), JOHN NICKNISH (8338 Mobud, Houston, Tex.), BOB MURPHY (6366 Rogers, 
iennsauken, N.J.), BILL KING (308 Keeney, Evanston, III.), WALT KAV/VNAUGH (126 Van Derveer Ave., Somenille, N.J.), FRED DELLO­STRITTO (4303 Harbison St., Dayton, Ohio), TED BINTZ (2418 Buckland Ave., Fremont, O.), ED COMPARDA (1591 Martin Rd., Mogadore, O.), BILL DOUGHERTY (510 Morningside Dr., Louis­ville, Ky.), MIKE CULLINAN (3310 Lake St., Houston, Tex.), HARRY CRAY (8 Locust Grove Dr., Clark, N.J.), BERN-Y BUCHEIT (62 Nonvick Dr., Youngstown, O.), RAY SCHRYVER (4060 Warrensvillc Center Rd., Cleveland, O.), BILL RICHARDSON (7 Orchard Rd., Piscataway, N.J.), D.WE .METZ (525 Frcncl. Rd., Rochester, N.Y.), JOHN .MiVNIX (1917 Red Leaf Dr., Louisville, Ky.), FRED KR;\CKLAUER (528 McKinley, Mundclein, III.), AL DAELIX (4732 Crestwood Way, Sacra­
ispoTnemflLuninilS 

PAUL FULLMER '55 Chicago Club President, a Busy Baby 
Frequently needled by classmates as "the baby" for having complete^d college before his 21st birthday, Paul Fullmer continues his precocious ways as vice-president of his firm and president of his alumni club at the ripe old age of 29. 
Paul, who has been assistant to the presi­dent of The Selz Organization, Inc., was rccendy elected a vice-president of the Chicago-based public relations firm. 
A journalism graduate of Notre Dame, where he was sports editor and associate editor of the Scholastic, Paul has been an account executive and account supen-'isor during his seven years with The Selz Or­ganization. 
Paul succeeded Tom O'Malley as secre­tar>' of the Glass of '55 about five years ago. Last spring he became president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, the Uni­versity's largest alumni group in the world, for which he has directed publicit>* efforts in recent years. He also is past co-chairman of the Associate Board of the National Con­ference of Christians and Jews. 
Before joining The Selz Organization in 1957, Paul was a feature writer for the Aurora (111.) Beacon-News. With his wife, the former Sandra Clifford, whom he mar­ried in 1961, he now lives at 7344 N. Ridge Blvd., Chicago. 
Notre 

mcnto, Calif.), JI.M IRWIN (5216 E. River Rd., FairScId, O.) JOE HIGGINS (Blenfidd Rd., Phoe­nix, Md.) and DON GELS (3M1 Darby Rd., Bryn Mawr, Havcrford, Pa.). 
Things have been quite hectic around this humble abode recently. First I got myself into all kinds of work by being elected president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. With more than 3,000 members and a full time office, it's like taking on an extra job. Then the board of The Selz Organization took a bold plunge by electing me a \*ice-president, which I soon found out meant more work. In my spare time I have been playing golf coach for Sandra, getting her ready for the \*arious tournaments. She shot a cool 73 this morning so I'm not getting too much help on this column because she's floatinsp around on a cloud. Incidentally, all of you jealous guys can rclxx now that the **babies" in the Class are finally passing the 30 mark. I go over the hill Thursday. 
OK gang, I'll see you all Oct. 3 after the Purdue game. 
From the Alumni OfHce: TOM AIAGILL received his ^fA in business ad­ministration from Lehigh U. on June 8. ED LIEVENS, a member of the technical staff, plans and analysis, in the OfHce of Manned Space Flight of NAS.^, has been a^\*arded an Alfred P. Sloan fellowship in executive development. The fellowship gives him a full year's study leading to a master of science degree at MIT, Cambridge. DR. JIM FELD has tossed his hat into the political race for the 2nd Dist. of Iowa Democratic Congressional nomination. DR. ELLIS JOSEPH, assoc. prof, of education, Avas one of four Dayton U. faculty members to win the annual alumni-faculty award, given each year for "outstanding contributions to the academic life and prestige of the University," and was also elected president of the Ohio Assn. of Counselor Educators. PETE CANNON has joined the Washington Operations office of Booz, Allen Applied Research, Inc. (nationwide scientific and technical services firm) as manager of business planning. CAPT. EUGENE P. WAGNER, a personnel officer, has arrived at Boiling AFB, Washington, D.C. for duty with a headquarters command unit after an assignment at Clark Air Base, Philippines. After a year's ser\*ice to ND in the Alumni Office, TOM KERNAN has resigned and gone back to his first love, insurance. Tom has been working in sales for the Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. in South Bend. 
•C # Alvin D. Vitt 4 Windmsh Creek W. St. Louis, Mo. 

From the ,t\lumni Office: a\PT . ALEX PESTRICHELL.-\ was among those receiving special recognition this summer from USAF Sccrctar>' Eugene M. Zuckert as part of the observ­ance of the 10th anniversary of Air Force missile and space progress this year. Al is an aeronautical engineer at hq. of the AF Systems Command's Space Systems Div., which recently occupied new facilities at Los Angeles. DR. JOE MARTELL.VRO, asst. prof, of eco­nomics at the South Bcnd-Mishawaka Campus of Indiana U., has been awarded a Fulbright Scholar­ship for study in xXrgcntina. lie will be a visiting lecturer at the National U. of the South in Bahia Blanca, Argentina, this summer under the scholar­ship. Joe is a specialist in the economic development of underdeveloped countries whose book. Economic Development in Southern Italy, 1950-1960, the result of an on-the-scene study during 1960-61 under another Fulbright grant, will be published this summer. 
DR. JxVMES L. M^VSSEY, asst. proL of electrical engineering at ND, has been awarded a certificate and a $500 pnzc for the best tutorial paper pre­sented at the National Electronics Conference in Chicago last October. The title of Jim's paper was "Error Correcting Codes .Applied to Computer Tech­nology." It was subsequently published in the pro­ceedings of the Conference. 
JOE MORIARTY was named administrative as­sistant to the manufacturing manager, Tonawanda div. of Spaulding Fibre Co., Inc. 
DR. AL SZEWCZYK, ND College of Engineering, is a member of the newly formed faculty advisory committee for the new ND Memorial Library. 
BOB McGOLDRICK has been appointed asst. group mgr. of the Hartford group office of the Conn. General Life Insurance Co. and will assist in direct­ing the planning, sale and administration of all types of group insurance programs. 
Dame Alumnus, August-September^ 1964 
VIETNAM HEROES continue to make the news. Capt. Jerry Shank '59 (below) was posthumously awarded the Distin­guished Flying Cross, Air Medal and Purple Heart, while Capt. Ralph Fickiing '56 (right), fellow Air Force "advisor," recently received the Air Medal from his troop carrier conunander for meritorious action in flight. 
ED KALAMAROS is now an assistant prosecuting attorney* for St. Joseph County, Ind. S\Tnpathy to JOHN F. MAXION of Peoria on the recent death of his father in Sterling, III. 
The DR. JOHN J. KENNEDY mentioned in the June-July issue as a member of the ND faculty is not a member of the Class of '56. His name u'as confused with that of JOHN E. KENNEDY, «ho was teaching in the same dcpt. last year. 
John P. McMccI 
•57 30 E. 42nd St. 
New York, N.Y. 
REUNION REGISTR.\NT DENNIS F. TROESTER. 

On May 30 our good friend DES O'CONNELL married Miss Bobbie Jaeger in Chicago. Doj is being transferred to London for two years and I am to have the pleasure of **bon voyaging" them ofT on the Queen Elizabeth . . . Best wishes and our congratulations for "smooth sailing" through life. 
I am utterly void of information regarding the activities of our classmates. Therefore I am appeal­ing to the vice-presidents to fulfill their obligations of supplying this column with the necessary infor­mation. Only GEORGE GROBLE and JOE REICH have faithfully executed their duties. Also would appreciate the assistance of all class members. In order to show something I will mention the \-arious geographical changes of some of our niatc:s. Before doing that I would like to point out that BILL McGOWAN is now sales manager for R. V. Welch and .\ssociatcs in Indianapolis. Congrats. Bill. Also that BOB ECKLUND is now living in Louisville and is emplo\'ed by Johns-Manville .. . JOHN SLEVIN is "lawAering" it in Peoria. JOHN CROW­LEY is happily married to bis wife and IBM in St. Louis. TERRY CONWAY is liWng In Bedford Heights, Ohio. DICK BROWN (whose sister Maureen married good friend Bill Brown Jones last June) has moved from St. Paul to Plantation. Fla. . . . FR. ROBERT J. MALONE'S East African address is Fort Portal. Uganda -. , JERRY MURPHY stavs in Indianapolis . . . TOM PALI­GANOFF to .Metucben, N.J. . . . FR. J.\MES STUPFEL in Lake Katwc, Toro, Uganda, East Africa . . . PAT S\VEENEY in Tampa, Fla. . . . BILL TOLLE living it up in Norfolk. Va. . . . JAMES WATERS from Bogota, N.J., to Trenton, Mich. . . . BOB BINDER now linng in Lincoln, Neb. . . . TOM BURL.AS has moved from Utica, N.Y., to Grccnsburg, Pa. . . . MARSHALL CAT­
66 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 
ANZARO from Kansas City to Webster Groves, Mo. . . . LEON CLOUGH to Indianapolis . . . DR. CHARLES CUSAMANO now living in Rockville, Md. . . . DAVE KLOCKE in Hingham, Mass. . . . JOE LOMBARD! settling down in Rahway, N.J. . . . ED LUECKE from Valparaiso to Lafayette, Ind. . . . MIKE .McLVriRE to Palo Alto. CaliL . . .JOE MANZO gracing Oceanside, CaliL . . . TONY PIRC making a nice move from Joliet to Huntington, Beach, Calif. . . . JIM PURCELL calls Schenectady, N.Y.. home . . . JOHN SCRIBA making a living in Western Springs, III. . . . RICHARD SHAFER with B. F. Goodrich Chemical Co. in Paducali, Ky. . . . RON WOODS in Min­neapolis . . . PAUL WALKER in Kew Gardens, 
N.Y. . . . JOHN CRANO whooping it up in Akron . . . BOB EMENS in Scituate, Mass. 
Would like to arrange a reunion party after one of the big games this fall in South Bend. If things become definite will get flyers out immediately. .. . 
Also it would be interesting to hear what a number of th- above-mentioned personalities arc doing these days. .. . 
From the Alumni Ofiice: DR. (aVPT.) LOU ROUSSALIS has graduated from the USAF School of Aerospace Medicine's primary* course of nine weeks of ad\'anced study at Brooks AFB, Tex. JIMMY MORSE is the new ABC radio voice for ND football this fall. He will join Jim Gibbons and replace MOOSE KRAUSE who will be devoting more time to Challenge 11. ELMER KOHORST, athletic director, basketball and baseball coach at St. John's Preparatory* School, lias been named head baseball coach at St. John's 
U. for the 1965 season. Elmer will continue in his posts of prep athletic director, basketball coach and biology' instructor. 
DR. ART JOHNSON left California in June and returned to Illinois so that he could take a residenc\' in Internal M<rdicinc at Northwestern U. His new address is 2617 Girard Ave., Apt. 1-C, E\-anston, III. 
Another classmate, JOHN GIBBS, has moved to 

111. to accept a position with Computron, Inc., a magnetic computer tape manufacturer. From Mus­kegon be moved to 2938 Western Ave., Park Forest. 
Wc intercepted the following letter to JOHN .McMEEL from DR. JI.M WALSH: ".. . At present I am scrxing in the US Na\y as a flight surgeon, attached to the 2nd Marine Aircraft Wing here at Cherry Point, N.C. With but a short six months remaining in the ser\*ice, I have adopted a bona fide short-timers* attitude and am eager to return to ciWlian ranks. In January, 1965, I'm due 
1964 
to begin a residenc>' in radiology at Bryn Mawr Hospital, Biryn \lawr. Pa. I was sorry to have missed both our Class Reunion and last fall's Glee Club reunion; perhaps Til have better control of my time when the next reunions take place. During the past several years I have seen FRANK FISCHER anfl RON HERMAN. What ever became of RON LORENZINl, KENT BORKOVEC. TOM ECK­MAN and BOB BRANICK? Vd like to hear from BILL BAUER. Well, this letter surely was succinct. I'll try to make the next a little more colorful. . ." 
TED WERNER LLB *57 has been appointed legal counsel of the W. A. ShcalTer Pen. Co. 
Capt. Arthur L. Roule, Jr. 
'58 
2529 Anderson Rd. Duluth, Minn. 55811 

It is time again, faithful readers, to submit anotht^^ column of class news. Our supply of information ^ ^ quite limited; however I will not chastise you for your failure to write, since the latest issue of the .ALUMNUS has not yet been mailed at this writing and therefore has not yet been able to exert its usual stimulating effect on correspondence. I expect that in the next couple of weeks a number of letters tvill be coming in, but they will just have to wait for the next issue. 
I am ver>' sorrv' to have to report the death of another classmate. On March 23, Air Force Captain EDWIN G. (JERRY) SHANK was killed in Viet Nam while flying on a mission against the Viet Cong forces. Many of you have, no doubt, already learned of Jerr>*'s death, and we know that you Join with us in extending our prayers and sympathy to bis wift^ and family. Although Jerry was listed as a membi^P of the Class of 1959, by reason of his having been enrolled in the five-year arcbitecttiral engineering program, lie enrolled with us and will therefore be remembered as a member of our class. May be, and all the other men who have given their lives for us in Viet Nam and elsewhere, rest in peace. .As has been our custom, a Memorial Mass was offered on the campus in June for deceased members of the Class of 1958, including Jerr>' Shank and all our other departed classmates. Please remember them in your prayers. 
JIM SCHERER has written from Yap. an island about 400 miles Southeast of Guam, where he is employed as a teaclier by the US Dcpt. of the In­terior. Yap is a trust territory* being administered by the US under a UN mandate. Jim and his wife. Donna, were expecting their first child in April^ 
His address Is Yap, Western Caroline Is. 96943. .^SAM NIGRO MD, 59 Osprcj* Dnvc, Groton, 
•Vbonn., IS currcnlly scmng submarine duty with the Na\y. In April lie finished his second 60-day patrol aboard the nuclear sub USS George Washington. He has since then been assigned to the New London Submarine Base in Groion. Last November Sam and his wife welcomed their first child, Rachel Ann. 
JOHN TREACY has over five years in now with the Air Force and has been assigned to stations in Maine, ^(anitoba, Michigan, Alabama and Massa­chusetts. He is currently stationed at Hanscomb Field, Mass., in the Electronic Systems Division. John reports that DENNY D'ALELIO is at Pease AFB,^ New Hampshire, as is PETE SCHEUER­Mx\NN. John inquires as to the whereabouts of MARTY POWERS, TOM SWLVTOWSKI and 
^'RANK a\UCHON. 
FR. ED NASH writes from Saint Rose Priory, 2570 Asbur>-. Dubuque, Iowa, where he recently completed his fourth year of Theology- with the Dominican Order. Ed was ordained last year and following his studies will be assigned to duties in the ApostoIatL—location is as yet unknown. JOHN (BRO. TIMOTHY) McaVRTHV is also at Saint Rose Priory. 
Our last correspondent for this issue is JOHN DUNN, who is now living in Decatur, III. (4930 Mclwood Ave.) where he has entered the private practice of law in the firm of Walter T. Alorcy. John had been employed in the patent department of Standard Oil in Chicago since the summer of 
^961 . Jolin, wife Barb, and son, John F. Ill are awaiting the arrival of another member of the family in October. JOHN MOREL/\ND has also added another member to his burgeoning household, another son. The Morctaiids are living in Ottumwa, Iowa, where Jake is in the law partnership of Bookin and Moreland. MIKE SHANNON planned to be married in St. Louis ou July 4 (a fine day to give up your independence) to Miss Laura McGrath. 
Tliat comprises all the news which we have received since the last writing. Please send along some information regarding your own whereabouts and status for our nc\t column. For those of you who may be cnnfiucd by the constantly changing addresses appearing at the head of this column I will offer a word of explanation. Your secretary is currently scr\*iug with the Air Force, as a Judge Advocate, with the 343rd Fighter Group (ADC), in 
^Duiuth. I have been here for approximately a year 
^"n d a half and e.\pcct to remain here for a like period in the future, having completed one half of my ihrce-ycar lour. Prior to entering the serx'ice in February of 1963, I bad been in practice with the firm of Roulc & Raclson, in La Porte. Indiana, since graduation from ND Law School in Juue of 1961. 
Enough for now. Hope to sec you at the annual after-game reunion (details to be forthcoming). 
From the Alumni OlHce: We received the following from TO.M SHAFFER, 
asst. prof, of Law: "JOHN R. MARTZELL *58, '6IL, who is a practicing attorney in New Orleans, La., was seriously injured in an automobile accident in June. He will be hospitalized for three or four months, but is apparently out of danger. Jack is married and he and his wife arc expecting their second child this summer. His hospital address is 514 Ochsncr Foundation Hospital, 1516 Jefferson Highway, New Orleans." 
a\Pr . PAUL LYNCH was graduated from the USAF Squadron Officer School at the .Air U. at Maxwell AFB, Ala., in April. Paul was selected for the special professional officer training in recog­nition of his demonstrated potential as a leader in the aerospace force. He has been rc-assigncd to Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio. 
While in Spain, Tcrrejon AFB near Madrid. FR. ED FIT2GER/\LD CSC '30 met a\PT. DENNY D*ALELIO, who is with the Strategic Air Command on temporary duty. His home base (as ART ROULE said above) is Pease .AFB, N.H. He is not only a member of the Reflex crew but the publicity and information officer of his outfit. 
CHARLES SUSANO, formerly a law clerk to Chief Justice Hamilton Burnett, announced the opening of his law office in June at 1200 Hamilton National Bank Building. Kno.wilte, Tenn. 
Meriden, Conn., a stolid industrial city, is aroused over the dismissal of a young high school art teacher, DAVE DEVLIN*. Pickets have frequently appeared at City Hall demanding his reinstatement, public rallies have been held, and a citizens' committee has bought newspaper space to advertise its protest and has passed out literature on the subject. Dozens of pupils have testified to the ways in which Dave has helped them. He has been described as having an easy rapport with his students and was fired because he tacked ''classroom control and discipline." Both newspapers have supported him. 
AL STEPAN III was married to Miss Erica Nanc>' Seys, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Duncan Seys, on Jauuari* 10. The marriage took place at St. Mar\*'s Church, Chiselhurst, and the reception at the Seys' home, Bickley. Kent, England. .AI and Nanc>* met as students at Oxford and are studying in South America until September, when ,A1 will work for his PhD at Columbia U. 
We heard in a roundabout way that MOOSE SCHNEIDER was married recently. If Moose is in reality Lawrence J. we'd like to hear from you—or your friends in regard to your latest address as our mail came back **Address Unknown." 
Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL N. GLEASON wrote wondering why they hadn't received the last two issues. Maybe it's because they forgot to tell us they'd moved to Star Route 2, New Braunfels, Tex. 
BILL ROBI of San Francisco visited the campus recently to admire the new Memorial Library with his father-in-law. GEORGE THOMAS '27 of Cleve­land. Bill and his wife visited the N.Y. World's Fair but were only impressed by the Michelangelo Picta in the Vatican Pavilion. 
RAYMOND LOUIS SCHMITT recently got bis PhD from the Stale U. of Iowa. 
Dennis M. Ncad 
•59 
6121 Robson Rd. 
flifiriiiiiati, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

WARREN E. ALBRIGHT, RICHARD E. AMARAL, PAUL F. ANDERSON, HAROLD B. AUGUSTINE, JOHN T. BEARD, RICHARD O. BENOIT, ANTHONY J. BEREJKA, JAMES G. BIGHAM, URBAN R. BOLAND, STEPHEN W. BOLANDER, JOHN R. BOYCE, JOSEPH E. BRADY, ROGER \V. BRESLIN, RICHARD M. BRINGAZE, JAMES A. BROGAN, JOHN Vf. BRUNNER, FRANCIS J. BUCKLEY, C. KEVIN BURKE, ROBERT M. CALLERO, E. AVILLIAM CASEY, JOHN B. CASHION, EDMUND J. CAULFIELD, KENNETH J. CAVANAUGH, GEORGE J. CLEMENTS, RICHARD D. CON­LEY, PHILIP S. COOGAN, JAMES D. COONEY, DAVID M. COOK, JAMES L. COORSSEN, ROBERT E. COWHEY, JAMES H. CRISMAN, FRANK J. CULLEN, WILLIAM W. CUSHWA, ROBERT H. DAILY, WILLIAM J. DALTON, JOHN T. DEMPSEY, MICHAEL B. DERRANE, JOHN C. DOLAN, STEPHEN J. DORNBACH, DENIS B. DRENNAN, JA.MES B. DULAN, JOHN 
P. EDWARDS, CARL W. ENGSTROM, WAYNE 
A. FAIST, JOHN D. FARRELL, HENRY R. FEN­BERT, JOHN S. FITZPATRICK, JOHN E. FIXARI, WILLIAM F. FLYNN, BRIAN F. FOLEY, JOHN N. FREY, WILLIAM M. FURY, JOSEPH D. GALVIN, DAVID A. GELBER, THOM/\S L. GEORGE, DUKE P. GIBSON, JAMES R. GILCHRIST, BARRETT J. GLEK­NER, RONALD M. GORDON, RICHARD A. GRIMLER, PAUL J. GRUBER, PETER J. HACKETT, LOWELL L. HAGAN, GEORGE J. HAHN, KEVIN R. HALLIGAN, M. JERRY HALLORAN, MICHAEL J. HALPIN, JOHN G. HARRON, DAVID L. HART, MICHAEL G. HAVERTY, JOHN F. HAYWARD, JOSEPH L. HEIL, JAMES M. HEIRTY, JOHN B. HELMER, REV. .MICHAEL J. HEPPEN CSC, JOHN 
H. HETREED, WILLIAM E. HICKMAN, JO­SEPH E. HIGGINS, JAMES P. HILUARD, CR^MG A. HILLYER, CHESTER A. HOBERT, CLARENCE F. HUTCHES, ROBERT A. JAN­OSKI, FR<\NK T. JEUNEK, JAMES P. JOCK, JAMES R. JORDAN, REV. MILAM J. JOSEPH, JA.MES A. JUST, WILL1A.M C. KANE, RICH­ARD M. KATIS, T. P.ATRICK KE.4TING, THO.MAS F. KEEFE, A. DAVID KESTNER, B. ROBERT KILL, EUGENE T. KILLEEN, JOSEPH 
J. KING, K. FREDERICK KLEIDERER, RICH­ARD P. KOMYATTE, P. TERRY LA.MB. NEAL 
E. LAMPING, ROGER L. LAUR, FRANCIS J. LAVALLEE, DUNCAN L. LaVIGNE, FRED­ERICK .M. LAVIN, HARRY D. LEINENWEBER, WILLIAM H. LOGSDON, IVILLIAM J. LUD­WIG, THOMAS P. McBREEN, WILLIAM H. McCULLOUGH, THOMAS J. McDONALD, HAROLD E. McKEE, RAYMOND C. McPART-
CLASS OF '59, although obviously present to enjoy the celebration of a 5th Anniversary, betrayed a certain reserve and seriousness in all their observances, as befits a Class only recently liberated from military, grad school and professional training. A few were even seen leaving the Morrissey bar to chat with faculty at college open houses. 
" Notre Dame Alumntis, August-September, 1964 
LIN. JOHN R. MADDEN, DANIEL J. AUHER, TIMOTHY J. MAHONEY, JOSEPH S. iUIER, JOHN M. ^L\LONEY. KARL G. MANGOLD, DAVID S. MANN, JOHN F. MANNION, JAMES F. MASTERSON, PHILIP S. MILLER, RILEY W. MILLER, \V1LLIAM D. MORENCY, JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN. ROBERT E. MURPHY, \TNCENT J. NAIMOLI. DENNIS M. NEAD, CLAYTON F. PASCHEN, RICHARD J. PHELAN. JOHN E. FHILBIX. ROBERT G. PIER, FRANK J. PON­ZIO, CHARLES \V. QUEENAN. RICHARD C. RAin»P, ALAN E. REED, FRANK R. REYN­OLDS, JOHN S. RIZNER, JOHN K. ROEDEL, PATRICK G. ROLLINS, GEORGE N. ROSS, RICHARD E. RYAN, RICHARD J. RYAN. JOSEPH L. SCHAEFER. MICHAEL G. SEAMAN, WILLIAM J. SHEA, PETER E. SHEPTAK, WIL­LIAM J. SHERRY, SHANNON SMITH, ^\^L­LIAM STEIDEN, JOHN D. STEIN'BERG. F. QUINN STEPAN, DANIEL G. SULLIVAN, ARTHUR J. SUNDSTROM, PAUL P. SZYM/\N­SKI. JOHN P. THURIN, JOHN H. TREANOR, LEONARD V. TROTTA, THOMAS E. UTTER, GEORGE ^V. VANDER VENNET, FRED W. VIDA. CHRISTOPHER M. WALSH, ROBERT 
E. WELCH, LAURENCE H. ^\TNTZ, ROBERT 
S. ^VTTOSKA, ROBERT J. YOUNG, JOHN E. ZABACK. 
This column is written on the eve of our first Class Reunion which commences Friday, June 12, through Sunday the 14th. JOHN LErVHY agreed to serve as local cliairman for this afTair^making plans for Motrisscy and our Class Dinner at the Dining Hall and, if at all possible, FR. COLLINS to say the Class Mass on Saturday morning, June 13. Again the weekend will cost around $25 providing you stay away from the card sharks and the press bettors on the golf course. I definitely plan to attend the re­union unless Uncle Sam requires my attendance at simimcr camp during this period; see you there. (Ed. Note: Denny was not only there but was one of the champs in the Golf Tournament. JL) 
JACK THOMAS was married to Miss Patricia Claire Belivcau on Feb. 8 in Lcwiston, Me. 
At present FRED ^^D.\ is a systems analyst at the Continental National Bank and is working for his MB.-\ at the U. of Chicago night school. GENE BOYLE is also working for the Continental in the tax department. 
A few Chicagoans planning to attend the June reunion include BOB VONDRASEK, DICK MUR­PHY, HARRY McKEE, TO\f GILL, JOHN BROSIUS, PAT WALSH and BILL HA^\'KINS. 
BARRETT GLEIXNER is also working for his KfBA at the University of Chicago night school. 
TONY GRAH/VM was graduated from Yale Law School in June of '62. .\fter taking the Illinois Bar exams in September of the same year, he reported for active duty as a rc5er\'e officer in the US Army. He now is attached to Military Intelligence and is stationed in Nuernberg, Germany. Tony, his wife, the former Mary Rink of ^\'lImcttc, III., and their two small children expect to return to Chicago at the end of the year. 
REV. CHARLES M. DAH.M OP u-as ordained to the priesthood on Saturday. April 18 In the chapel of St. Rose Priory, Dubuque, Iowa. Fr. Dahm offered his first solemn Mass in Sacred Heart Chapel. York and Arthur Sts,, Elmhurst on Sunday, April 19. While at ND, Fr. Dahm studied in the combined Liberal Arts-Engineering program and was a member of tlie Blue Circle Honor Socict>'. 
REV. JERO.ME J. L.4NGFORD OP was also ordained to the sacred priesthood April 18 to the Dominican Order*s Pro\*incc of St. Albert the Great (also the pr. Fr. Dahm). Fr. Langford offered his first solemn Mass in Holy Cross Church, 1520 Vassar Ave., South Bend, Ind. Fr. Langford studied for one year at ND, where he was assistant sports editor of the Scholastic and won a numeral sweater on ih; freshman fencing team. 
ANTHONY CIARAMNIO has completed his graduate studies in law at NYU and obtained his Master of Law degree in June, 1963. He is now-practicing law in Detroit in his own office in the First National Building. 
DICK KATES received his master's degree in August of '61 and on Dec 29, 1962, Dick was married to the former Mary Stuart of St. Louis; he is now working for ^^cDonneIl Aircraft. 
JON JACOBY got his MBA from Har\-ard last June after two years in the Naxy and is now working for an investment firm in Little Rock, Ark. 
TOM LONDRIGAN got married last August 31. He and his bride live in Springfield, III., where he is an assistant to the US Attorney. He got his law d^rrce from IlHnois in 1962. 
DAVE AMIDON was married the Christmas after graduation. He and his wUc Jan now have a boy and a girl. After about 15 mos. of flight training Dave 
UTAH — All eyes were on Horseman Harry Stuhldrehcr as the ND football immortal^ now an executive of US Steel, spoke on Universal Notre Dame Night to the Utah ND Club in Salt Lake City. 
Joined a Naval Air Force Patrol Squadron in Jack­ronville, Fla.; he soon expects to attend the Na\'al FG school in Monterey to continue with aeronautics. 
KEN HIEGEL taught at the Naval Academy for two years and is now working for McDonnell Air­craft in St. Louis. He has one boy and a little girl —wife's name is Mar>* Bca. 
Other correspondence shows BILL MAGUIRE is working for David Taylor Model Basin and BIFF MORETTI is out of the Air Force and just started his family with a son. 
I received a letter from FR/\NK NACOZY which mentions other classmates so I'll quote his note: "I spent the first two and one half years with a teach­ing fellowship at UCL.-\ in math. During that time, I married a girl from New Orleans, had my first boy and ran into JOHN MURRAY who had just given the the Carthusian order a try. I am now working on my doctorate at UCLA and work at Hughes Aircraft Co. as a math analyst. I frequently sec BILL MoVDAMS who is married to a girl from Chicago, has an MA in engineering and plays on the team that is my archrival in the industrial league. I saw BOB KRIEBEL in San Diego over Christmas —he married a girl from Pittsburgh and has three children. After ser\-ing three years in the Na\"y, Bob is working at General Atomic as an experimental ph\'sici5t. DR. MIKE SHH/V is single and still play­ing cards. After finishing Tufts last June, he is now inter\*iewing in St. Paul, Minn. (I think the Mayo Clinic.) FRANK CRANTIL is working in L.A., has passed the bar exam and has a wife and two children. JERRY FARLEY after a couple of years in the Army married a nurse, is working in insurance, and is pursuing his law degree at UCLA." 
LOS ANGELES — At a jomt UND Night of live Southern California Clubs in Holly­wood, special guest Jim Armstrong (cen­ter) is the head-table companion of Chairman Ben Salvaty (left), representing San Gabriel Valley, and Father Heinzer CSC of L.A.'s Family Theater. 
After having traveled all over the world, MICKEY SUNDSTROM is currently stationed at a US Naval-Amphibious Base in San Diego, Calif. After dis\y charge from the scr\"icc, the little touring pro will either go back into the brokerage business or go back to school for his master's degree; he also plans to get into politics hot and heavy and run for the Illinois State Legislature in 1966 on the Republican ticket—who knows, maybe Mick can help BILL MILLER out with things on Capitol Hill. Mick plans to attend the reunion in June, where bets can be placed on the first tee, but I advise you to check and make sure his putter isn't still crooked. 
From the Alumni Office: DR. NORiL\N ODYNIEC, formerly of Greens­boro, N.C., stopped in the Alumni Office for a ^isit-^ recently. Norm is very proud of his new daughtertl Lisa Ann. He was on his way to Rochester. Minn, where he will be a resident surgeon at the Mayo Clinic JESUS SlIGUEL received his \fA in business administration at Washington U. in June. PAT CROWE received his MA in science education at the same time and place. 1/LT. JOHN ROY was among those receiving special recognition from USAF Secretary- Eugene M. Zuckcrt as part of the obser\'ancc of the lOth an­ni\*ersary of AF missile and space progress this year. John is a mechanical engineer at hq. of the AF S>'Stems Command's Space Systems Div.. which re­cently occupied new facilities at Los Angeles. 1/LT. ED MEZZAPELLE and 1/LT. ANDY WT © RICK were graduated in April from the US.AF Squadron Officer School at the Air U. at Maxwell AFB, Ala. Andy and Ed were selected for the special professional officer training in recognition of their demonstrated potential as leaders in the aerospace force. Andy is at Norton AFB, Calif, and Ed will be at L. G. Hanscom Field, Bedford, Mass. TOM MacLENNAN has been promoted to captain in the Air Force while scr\-ing at James Connally AFB, Tex. 1/LT. GEORGE WILSON was unable to attend the reunion, as he was busj* in Viet Nam flying T28's. The following came from TIMM BODEN­STEINER: "Have been meaning for some time now to write your office in regard to my activities for the last se%'cral years. I unfortunately will not be abl^^ to attend the five-year reunion of my class th ^ summer and consequently will miss the opportunity to see all my former classmates and bring them up to date on my current and past activities. So I thought the next best thing u-as to inform all of them via the Notre Dame .ALUMNUS magazine. 
"For the last two years I have been in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, where I was employed as the art director of advertising for Collins Radio Company. Prior to this, I lived in Chicago for two years. My last job there was a most interesting one. It was working for Hugh Hefner of Playboy magazine fanic. I was assistant art director for the not-so-successful magazine Show Business Illustrated. 
^'Currently I am planning a sabbatical trip to Mexico for several months of painting before returi ^ ing to the hectic pace of the advertising businesiV Upon returning, I plan on relocating in the Los Angeles area where I spent several years attending the Art Center School and working right after I finished at Notre Dame. 
"My bachelor da>*s have been numbered since last December 25th when I became engaged to Miss Lucille Davis of Cedar Rapids. Next April 24th will mark the eventful day. Guess that's about all for now." 
The following from JON DeWITT: ". . . Some information for the Alumni magazine, long overdue. After receiving my LL.B from the University of Michigan Law School in June of 1962, I worked on new sections of Michigan's constitution for the Con­vention of the same year. Next I spent three montlj^ with the Prosecuting Attorney's office In Muskegoi" Mich. We continued to live In Muskegon after ac­cepting the position of law clerk to the Honorable United States District Judge, Noel P. Fox, in the Federal District Court in Grand Rapids in the fall of '62. On June 15, this year, that position termi­nates and I join the top law firm of Varnum. Riddcring, Wierengo and Christcnson in Grand Rapids. As you can sec by the address change, we will now make our home In Grand Rapids—'We' being, m>-self, my wife Mar>- Ann (Fcency—S.M.C. 1959), our daughter Ann and son William. Better late than never." New address Is 1812 Union S.E., Grand Rapids. 
Best tvlshcs to JON JACOBY and brother Jim '57 for the quick recovery of their father, bridge champ Oswald Jacoby, from his automobile accident in July^ 
68 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
HOLY CROSS PRIESTS of the Indiana Province, ordained in June with the Holy Cross College Class of '64 include (l.-r.): Rev. Kenneth A. Requa CSC '60, Seattle, Wash.; Rev. James T. Rahilly CSC '60, Oyster Bay, L.I., N.Y.; Rev. R<^er Sowala CSC '60, South Bend; Rev. William J. Crumley CSC '59, Gary, Ind.; Rev. John G. Foley CSC '60, Lexington, Ky.; Rev. Edgar J. Whclan CSC '60, Garden City, Mich.; Rev. Robert L. Kramer CSC '60, Westlake, O.; Rev. J. Michael Conley CSC '60, Albany, Calif,; Rev. Richard P. Kopinski CSC '60, Greenlawn, L.I., N.Y.; Rev. Donald J. Kaiser CSC '60, Detroit, Mich.; and Rev. James L. Riehle CSC '59, Birmingham, Mich.; Rev. Leonard D. Paul CSC '60 (not shown) was ordained in Rome. 
' M ^^^° ^' ^^'^' 
1045 Undcn Ave. 
 Wihnette, HI. 

REUNION REGISTRANT DONALD HANIGAN. 
From the Alumni Office: NOTRE DAME-MICHIGAN STATE — NOV. 14! The Class of 1960 CocJctail Party will be held after the game at the Morris Inn in the Mahogany Room. Some tickets may still be a\-ailable from the Notre Dame Ticket Office at 55.50 each. 
REMEMBER: Plan to attend the 5-year Reunion June II, 12, 13, 1965. 
DICK CORBETT, Class president, stopped out to \-isit the campus and planned for the fall reunion. Dick has just graduated from Har\'ard Business School and has started working with the Kennedy family's investment office. Park Agency, in New York City. He will be helping with the Kennedy 
^(emorial Library for the next several months. 
Dick repot ts that BRUCE BABBITT has just completed law school at Har\'ard and will begin work in a law firm this fall. DENNY SHAUL has just completed his first year at the Harvard La\v School and is happily married and li\*ing in Cam­bridge. Dick also reports that JIM ALLEN gradu­ated from the law school last year and is working with a firm in Chicago. DAVE SAMUELSON is a successful executive at the Rochester Democrat & Chronicle and has recently retired at a young age as secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Rochester. NEIL STATLER wrote to say: "Things have gone rather quickly over the past year for us. My SMC-60 wife (Patricia Bruce) has brought forth our second, John Robert (5/11/63), and we have moved to New 
^or k City from Rochester—still in advertising with 
^Lstman Kodak." PAT CRE/\DON was married in Chicago on June 27 and is working to support his new wife with all the luxuries of the computer age with the compliments of IBM. LEN MULLER and his wife Judy arc still roughing it in a US Army post in Germany. He will return in Sept. and expects to begin a career in hospital administration in the Chicago area. BOB JUCKINESS has three children and is working with his father's firm in Chicago. At this rate Bob should have a full football team by 1970. If any of the children are girls they can always play touch football. 
CHRISTIE FLANAGAN should be congratulated on his recent contribution to the last issue of the ALUMNUS and successful beginning as an attorney 
^ Houston. The best of luck to Christie and his 
^Ife Gretchen. Tlic Class is looking forward to any new offspring from Texas, Dick also reports on his recent trip to Washington that his roommate JOE FINSTER just completed medical school at George­town U. and will begin his internship in Washington, D.C., this summer. He and his wife Mary Ellen should be congratulated on the arri^'al of a new son. Now they have a new addition to share their estate on the banks of the Georgetown Reservoir. MARV ANDERSON also shares the distinction of gradu­ating into the ranks of the medical profession. Mar\' graduated from Georgetown Medical School this past June and will be living at 19720 Robson Ave., Detroit. Thanks to Dick Corbett for these neu-s scoops. 
r 
The Regional representation has been rather spotty in the past. Anyone who feels he has active com­unication with several ND men in his area should 
feel free to keep JACK GEIER posted or send it to the Alumni Office. CHRISTIE FLANAGAN, what's happening in the South? PAT CRE.\DON, whom do you meet on your travels in the Midwest? MIKE MURPHY, what's happening in the sunny West? 
TOM MAMMOSER stopped into the Alumni 
Office for a few minutes in June and told us he is 
doing graduate work for a doctorate in Chicago. 
REV. ROGER SOWALA CSC was ordained in 
Sacred Heart Church on June 10. He celebrated his 
first solemn Mass in Holy Cross Church, South Bend 
on Sunday, June 14. For the past four years he has 
been studying theology* at Holy Cross College, 
Washington, D.C. 
BOB MITCHELL has been appointed an assistant treasurer by the board of directors of Provident Tradesmen's Bank & Trust Co. 
JOHN REILLY was among 32 seniors at Seton Hall College of Medicine and Dentistry', Jersey City, N.J., who received Doctor of Dental Surgery degrees at the school's fifth commencement, held June 6 at the South Orange campus. 
CHARLES SA.AD is now working as an announcer at radio station WDOS, in Onconta, N.Y. 
DICK CORBETT '60 Class president, may someday write a book on ''Presidents I Have Known." Widely pictured conversing with President Eisenhower at graduation, Dick exchanged congratulations with the late President Kennedy after working on hb campaign and later worked for the Kennedy Administration. Recently gradu* ated from Harvard Business School with an MBA, Dick has been busy raising funds for the Kennedy Memorial Library. 
DAVE HENNES of Seattle received his MD degree from the U. of Washington School of Medi­cine on June 13. Dave took part of his medical studies at the U. of Austria. And STEVEN JOHN KRAUS got his MD at Cleveland's Western Reser\'c U. 
DAVE FIXLER was recently elected to Alpha, Omega Alpha, the national medical honorary society. Dave was graduated June 12 from the U. of Chicago Medical School and started his internship in pedi­atrics at Children's Hospital^ Chicago. 
BOB WALSH has been appointed asst. prof, of 
sociology at Illinois State U. He had been at the 
State U. of Iowa as a graduate asst. while com* 
pleting work for an MA and working on a PhD. 
DICK DAGGETT, asst. supply officer in the 
Army Transportation School's Troop Command at 
Ft. Eustis, Va., has been promoted to 1/Lt. 
ALVJ. JOHN FATUM MS *60 graduated from the 38-wcck regular course at the VS.\ Command and General Staff College at Ft. Leavenworth on June 
12. The course is designed to prepare select officers for duty as commanders and general staff officers at div., corps and field army levels. In addition to US.A personnel, officers from other branches of the US Armed Forces and allied nations attend the course. 
POPE PAUL VI LL.D '60 is determined to keep culture going by prcqrasing an alliance between the papacy and the world of art. according to recent news releases. 
Nick Fdamich 
'61 
34 Dartmouth Rd. West Oni^c N.J. 

This will most assuredly go down as the shortest of all Class of '61 notes to date, and I hope of all time. News has reached an absolute low and if this sounds like an appeal for a little mail, I can only tell you most definitely that it is. I feel like a sportswriter for the Ne\v York Mets—nothing but old news. 
Since items are so scarce for this running of the ALUMNUS, I am going to elaborate a little more than is the custom on one particular individual who is creating somewhat of a storm in the borough of Manhattan, New York City, Mr. JIM O'MALLEY, working for All State Insurance, has established himself in a penthouse apartment in the plush sur­roundings of the upper cast side of Manhattan. This chateau makes Sinatra's place in ''Come Blow Your Horn" look like Sorin Hal!. And if that isn't bad enough this guy has a home on the Jersey shore for a little summer diversification. . . . Tough life, Jim. 
ED KOMPARE, presently a senior in medical School at the U. of Illinois, has recently become engaged to Miss Maria Mazza of Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., and St. Mary's College. Tlie wedding date has has been set for Sept. 12, 1964. On June 20, Ed traveled to Seattle, Wash, to be a member of the' bridal party at the wedding of DICK HENDRICKS and a young lady from that city, whose name I will have to apologize for not having. 
FRANK CLARK graduated from St. John's Law School, Brooklyn, in June, 1964. Frank is now married to the former Miss Janet Henneberg of New York City. They are currently liWng in Rego Park, New York and are e-xpecting their first child before this issue goes to press. 
As bad as it seems, that's all there is. Once again a brief plea for mail; without it I'm dead. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ AugustSeptemheTj 1964 69 
From the Alumni Office: 
In a tetter to the South Bend Tribune, Mr. and 
Mrs. W. B. HIGHFIELD JR. made it dear that 
they arc two citizens of Mobile, Ala., who have no 
great regard for a campus xisitor of last spring, 
Gov. George AVallacc. 
STEXX SMITH has joined Monsanto Company*s 
Central Research Dept. as a mathematician in its 
applied mathematics section after rcceinng his MA 
in operations research at Cornell U. this June. 
BILL JUNGELS has joined the Chatham College 
faculty as an instructor in English. He has taught 
at Johns Hopkins and St. John's U. in Collcgcx-illc, 
Minn., and has published several articles and poems. 
CHARLES DeJAX has been commissioned a 2/Lt 
in the USAF after graduation from OTS at Lack­
land AFB, Tex. He has been assigned to AF Systems 
Command at Wright Patterson AFB, Ohio, for train­
ing and duty. AFSC researclies, develops and tests 
planes and missile systems. 
LEN BLUM is working as a sales engineer with 
Reliance Electric and Engineering Co. in the Louis­
ville office after completion of two years of active 
duty in the US Xa^y. He now holds the rank of 
LtJG in the Xaval reserves. He is Iix-ing at 4200 
Medallion Ct., Apt. 405, Louisville, Ky. 40219. 
BERNARD O'NEILL has joined the field claim 
stair of the State Farm Mutual Auto Ins. Co., 
Charlottesville and is living at 3312 Holly St. in 
Alexandria, Va. 
Congratulations to TOM STOLL on his ordina­
tion to the sacred order of deacons on May 30 at 
the Episcopal Cathedral of St. James in South Bend. 
He has taken up his new duties as xicar of St. 
Mar}''s Church, Delphi, Ind. where he will live 
with his wife Sterling and their IVs-ycar-old daugh­
ter, Melissa. 
JOE PICHLER won a one-year graduate fellow­
ship in employee relations at the U. of Chicago, 
au-arded by the Standard Oil Foundation. The 
fellowship provides a stipend of 5300 a month for up 
to 12 months, in addition to tuition and other fees. 
The graduate school also received a grant of $1000. 
GEORGE FRANCIS GORE III and JOHN 
^fARSHALL \VALSH stood high in their law class 
to win Juris Doctor degrees at Western Reserve. 
iL\RTIN DECRE has been appointed technical 
correspondent in the Wilmington region for Atlas 
Chemical Industries. 
CHUCK LENNOX will continue as asst. basket­
ball coach under the new coach, JOHNNY DEE. 
GREG HELLRUNG dropped in at the Alumni Office for a short tisit. Greg graduated this June from Catholic University of America in Washington, DC. He x\*as comment and case note editor of the Catholic U. Law Review, He married Mar>* Jeanne Farle>' on March 30 and will earn his bread and butter with Reans and McGrath, I Chase Man­hattan Plaza, X.Y. 5. His home address is 615 E. 14th St., Apt. 10-G, X.Y. 9. He has been in touch with HARRY T. H.ANSOX and JACK VALICENTI who arc working on their PhD's in chemistry- at WajTie State in Detroit. 
O l Bookin & Morcland Law 211^ East Main St. Ottumwa, Iowa 52501 
It has been such a short time since our last column deadline that not much news has arrived. During the summer months you ivill all be receiving a mail­ing requesting up-to-date information about your­selves, wives, families, etc I ivould appreciate your cooperation in completing the same and returning it to this office prior to September 15 so that I can meet my next deadline on October 1. 
I got a letter from JOHX DUXN, informing me that he has resigned from the American Oil Com­pany and will be practicing law wiili \\'altcr T. Morey, 243 S. Water Street, Decatur, Illinois. John and Bari) will be living at 4930 Melwood St., Decatur. NICK NIERS of the Class ol 19G0 is also practicing there. ROD METTE'S mother passed away recently and he would appreciate your prayers for the repose of her soul. JOHN PLATTXER took the Illinois bar exam after discharge from the ser\'ice and came through with flying colors. Our congratu­lations to him. 
•i n Terrencc McCarthy 23420 WeUingtoa Mt Clements, Mich. 
REUNION REGISTRANT MICHAEL HART. 
Ahoy, mates! IVe moved down to the poop deck for this article. First, no sea biscuits or rations for 
DAVID C. PETRE '61, a '64 graduate of the ND Law School after a previous engi­neering degree, "wzs this year's first-prize winner of the ASCAP Nathan Burke IVIemorial Competition in copyright law at ND, with a paper on statutes affecting photocopy machines. Dave went to work this month with the Xerox Corporation. 
you men until I get some news. Moved? Married? Babies? New Job? Travel? Thanks to JOE BRACCO \vc have news concerning many California men. CHARLIE AUGUSTINE is at K.L Sau-ver Air Force Base (Mich.) flying KG 135 tankers for SAC. He intends to be married within the year. CLAY­
TOX BEA\'ER completed one year of grad school and is presently a Ist Lt USMG at Quantico. JACH^ BRADLEY will complete a training program wit " United California Bank in X'ovcmber after which he intends to work for his MS in finance. Congratula­tions to the Bradleys as their second and third children were twins! TERRY BUETHER is devour­ing the law books at Loyola. BILL DOXOVAN is participating in a training program with Travelers Insurance Co. to become a field super\'tsor. CHARLES HEIMERDIXGER is a commander of a medical squadron at Kelly AFB, San Antonio. BOB KELLEY is expecting his tour of duty in the Army to end in Oct. LARRY KOLBERG is studying for the priesthood at St. John's Seminar>- in Camarillo, Calif. JOE M.ARTELLA is a display advertising salesman for the Monterey Peninsula Herald iu ^ Monterey, Calil. Lt. JOHX MARTIN is a platooflJ commander in the 4th Marine Rcgt. stationed at Kaneohe Bay, Oahu, Hawaii. CHUCK PERSYN received his SlS in chcm engineering from Oklahoma State U. and is now working with Shell Oil in Pittsburg, Calif. Congratulations. Chuck is married to the former Lois Dieter of Canaseraga, X.Y, It took place in San Francisco in August, 1963. BEN' S.ALVATV is beginning his last year of law school at the U. of So. Cal. Ben and Pat Recor of San Gabriel plan to tie the marriage knot soon. Ben also has some news to pass on. 
JOHN WILKINSON is living in Malibu and is an aeronautical engineer for Douglas .Vircraft in Huntington Beach. VICK GRABOWSKI is tcachin&p. school in Westminster, Calif., Isi Lt. WARRElCr MARR USMG is stationed on board the USS York­town. PAUL SCHELLH.AMMER worked for the Public Health Dept, of Berkeley before returning for his third vcar of medical school at Cornell this fall. 
I'm happy to report that Lt and Mrs. DEX'NIS O'COXX'ELL can't get along without their son Dennis Francis Jr., who was born last Oct. Pat and AXGELO DABIERO have a second little cheerleader as Juli Ann was bom last Mar. 22; now 2-ycar-old Lori Ann will have another playmate. 

1st Lt ROBERT KEXXY was commended for his work during the dedication of the School of Aero­space Medicine at Brooks AFB, Tex. when the late President Kennedy was a guest. Gen. Bernard A. Schricver, the commanding general of the AF Systems Command, wrote in an oflicial letter to Bob and in a news release: "Your overall contribution to tliA 
KANSAS CITY — Newly installed officers and board members of the Auxiliary to the Notre Dame Club are (from left) Mrs, Robert E. Miller, Mrs. Norman Bowes, Mrs. George J. McLiney, Mrs. Philip Koury, Mrs. John T. Massman, Mrs. Salvatore S. Nigro, Mrs. Dennis J. O'Hare, Mrs. Donald Lanspa, Mis. Randy Knight, Mrs. John Da«v 
70 Noire Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964 
information prosrflm and your assistance in handling 
•JL) Classen Gramm 
 large number of news media, present were a

«c wa 8447 Harwdl Drive 
ajor contribution to the success of the dedication ceremony. Your outstanding Inltitativc and knowl­Law San Diego, Calif, 92119 
edge of the information function resulted in good national news coverage of this event.'* Lt TOM FINEGAX USX is stationed on board the USS Calvert, which recently returned from maneuvers near Japan and Formosa. CU\SS BULLETIN: Our class reunion is after the UCLx\ game Oct. 17, 1964 in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn. 
From the Alumni Ofllcc: JORGE dela-MOILV received his ^rA in Industrial Engineering from Lehigh U. on June 8. ^ RAY RAEDY lias fallen from the good graces of ^^ c bachelors and Is walking up the aisle of Blessed Sacrament Church In Washington, D.C.^ on August 
8. Miss "Mickie" Monroe Is the lucky lady. Ray was asst. freshman football coach at Washington & Lee U. while going to law school there. 
BOB MIXAHAX has joined Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. and will operate in Applcton, Wis. 
GEORGE PFEIFFENBERGER received his MS and BILL VEEDER his MFA from the State U. of Iowa on June 5. 
GEORGE SEFCIK was featured in an article in the South Bend Tribune recently, "Meet the ND Staff." 
TED KRETSCHMER sent us the following: ". . . 

(fi^arly in the month of Marcli I completed the re­quirements for my MS degree In civil engineering, also at Notre Dame. I have since taken a position as a research engineer for the Naval Civil Engineering Laboratory at Port Hucneme, Calif. I am a resident of Oxnard, Calif. . . ." 
EDDIE SCHNURR is back in Louisville, with Equitable Life /Vssurance Society as an assistant district manager. Eddie and wife Barbara had a son Eddie III, born on May 4, '63, and he will be having 3 brother or sister In September. 
DENNIS ^L-\DDEN has been promoted to 1/Lt in the USAF at Hill AFB, Utah. Denny is a pilot in a unit that supports the Militarj' .Mr Transport Ser\'icc mission of providing global airlift of the US military' forces and equipment. 
2/Lt HOWARD SCHNEEBERGER received his silver pilot's wings at Vance AFB. OUa., completed 
Ijj^orous USAF Sur^'Ival and Special Training School at Stead AFB, Nev., and has been assigned to Seward AFB, Tcnn., for duly in a unit of the Tactical Air Command, which proxides firepower and other air support to US forces. 
GREG FAUST is a chemical engineer for Fire­stone Tire & Rubber Co. and was sent to India­napolis In October with several of the company's experienced racing engineers. lie was engaged in six weeks of tire testing for the I9W "500." Greg has traveled extensively since joining the company and has been to race tracks from Milwaukee to Mexico. He is away from the home office in Akron more than 60 per cent of ihc time. 
MIKE GROLMES received his M.-\ this June and spending the summer working at the Argonne Lab. : is coming back In the fall to work for his PhD. 

* 
Mother MARIE DE MONTFORT H.VGLICH PhD '62, who is tired of seeing Christmas cards that have St. Joseph "somehow resembling Tyrone Power with a beard," Is waging a personal campaign against the "sickly and syrupy" in religious art and presided at a Christmas card exhibition In New York. She is now an instructor of fine arts at Mar^-­mount College. 
BRO. JOHN KUHN CSC MA '62 has been named superior and principal of Rcitz Memorial High School In E\'ansville, Ind. 
l# ^ Paul K. Rooncy 162 Arlo Rd. 

• 
Law Staten Island 1, N.Y. 

Recrnt news from Philadelphia reveals that ST/\N NELSON is still very much on the scene. He re­cently formed his own firm under the name of Wil­son & Ncbon, 50 East Court Street, Doylestown, Pa. 
On the New York scene, KEVIN LYONS reports that NORM STARK has been fulfdling his militar\­obligation—soon to be completed—in the Albany, X.y., Army recruiting olKcc. L.\RRY Mi\NDIKE and RALPH WITT both claim residence in Atlanta, Ga. Ralph is with an Atlanta firm while Larry is playing Holmes on the range for the FBI. 
GEORGE PELLETIER has been doing some work recently for the Lawyer. This time though, instead of securing those lead articles, he supplied one. The 
^m^^^^-^
^^^mr?^ 

GREG FAUST '62 spent much of the spring at the Indianapolis Motor Speed­way in preparation for the Memorial Day 500-mile race. A native of Clarksville, Tcnn., Greg tested the wear on racing car tires as an engineer for Firestone Tire & Rubber Company of Akron, Ohio. 
''Professor's" comprehensive article on "Insurance Retaliatory Laws" appeared in the .April issue. 
Kathy and JI.M H,\RRINGTON have joined the ranks of the pcrambuIator-pushers; the beneficiary' is Patrick, born in May. Jim is now with a New York firm. Another Jim—JI.M GOETHALS to be exact — reports that BILL SCHRIGER added a second feminine touch to his family in Nfay. Tlic Scrig claims that the law of averages will be with him next time. Tell it to the Mets, Bill. 
Frank P. Dicello 
'63 218 Palmer Hill Rd. 
Old Greenwich, Conn. 

From the Alumni OOicc: 
ILVY R^\EDY must have had a crystal ball back in April when he wrote to us saying they had started a "Draft BILL MILLER ('35) for President" drive at William & Mar>' and felt he could be elected In November. A law student there, Ray was prominent in the Mock Republican Convention. 
DENNIS FAVERO and an off-duty Tucson police­man captured one of the FBI's "ten most wanted men." The fugitive was known to be bad-tempered and quoted as threatening to "shoot It out" before submitting to capture. Dennis was on his way to his business class at the U. of Arizona when he saw the ofHcer and fugitive fighting. Having heard of the robbery in the neighborhood, Denny rushed past the fallen officer, seized the fugitive by the arm and threw a hammerlock on him. What an excuse to cut class! 
2/Lt TOM ELZEN, platoon leader of the 266th Chemical Platoon at Ft. Riley, Kan., participated In Exercise Desert Strike—a joint Army and AF maneuver Involving 100,000 troops held In the in­state area of Calif., Ariz, and Nev. 
2/Lt BILL BEIER has been assigned to the 4&5th Preventive Medicine Army Unit in Germany. 2/Lt GEORGE WARD has entered US.\F navigator train­ing at James Connally AFB, Tex. 2/Lt HENRY KILEY has completed his solo flight in the T-37 Jet trainer as a USAF pilot trainee at Laughlin AFB, Tex. 
A3/G GORDON DIETZLER has graduated from the technical training course for USAF aircraft mechanics at Shcppard .-VFB, Tex. He w*a5 trained to maintain and ser\-ice reciprocating engine aircraft and aircraft systems and has returned to his Illinois Air National Guard unit at 0*Harc International Airport, Chicago. 
EUGENE BLISH was commissioned a 2/Lt in the USAF upon graduation from OTS at Lackland AFB, Tex. 
JIM REEVES, MA '63, has been appointed as­sistant professor of mathematics at Rollins College, Winter Park, Fla, 
Following the lead of RON D'ANGELO and PAUL DRISCOLL who went west last summer and CHARLIE O'MALLEY *&i and JIM SLATER '64 who sur\*eycd the western scene in March, the Walter Winchell of the Hoynes Law School decided last spring to see for himself if there really was civilization west of Chicago. 
After a week in California and Nevada I was forced to admit that all those lies Berry. Sxxc and Mattconi had becen telling for years are true. High rolling BOB BERRY, Washoe County's newest as­sistant district attorney, put away his badge and SLXguns long enough to show BOB SAXE and myself a little of Reno's famous hospitality. (This means the best In food, drink, and entertainment and a chance to lose your shirt aC the crap tables.) Snow­shoe's latest activity Is playing at politics as dele­gate to the Nev*ada Republican convention. 
Saxc, whose home has become a way station for Notre Dame men everywhere, spent four days show­ing me around northern California. Bob will soon be soldiering with the Marines and In the meantime has been back on the job with the California £m­ploj'ment Department. The other half of the San Jose slammers, NORM MATTEONI, is with the of­fice of the Santa Clara County Counsel, and bet\veen him and Bob they present quite a chamber of com­merce for upstate California. 
But in the long run it was southern California that ^von out—hence my happy association since June with the San Diego law firm of Hewitt, Klitgaard, Herncy & ^fc^(ahon. 
Back In Indiana, JOHN GILDEA is doing well at Miles Labs. He writes that Professor Romeo has given up the position of general counsel to devote full time to the presidency of the Chemical Division of Miles. 
BOB NOE is \v-ith a four-man firm in his home town of Rock Island, III., while the BYRNES, now a family of three, are back in St. Paul. PAT CULLEN, after a stint at Fort Knox, Ky., was last heard from at the Army's J.4G school at the Uni­versity of Virginia and PAT CROOKS who ^<f^s at J.AG school preWousIy is stationed at the Pentagon and living in Alexandria, Va. 
^LA Warren C. Stephens 
* " 205 Alameda Belmont, Calif. 

From the Alumni Office: TOM PETERSON has accepted a position as a product additions assistant with EtI Lilly Interna­tional Corp., a subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Co. Tom will assist in the coordination of product introduc­tion Information abroad for Elanco International, the agricultural and industrial dept. of Lilly Inter* national. 2/Lt JOHN NEIS has started USAF pilot train­ing at Laredo AFB, Tex., \%-here he w^ill fly the newest AF jet trainers and receive special academic and militar>' training during the year-long course. He will receive his silver wings when he graduates. There u*as a feature article in the New York Times on the retirement of ALLEN DAVIDSON*! father after 41 years In the Army. BOB .ADLER won a second place prize of $100 in the short play division of the l2th annual Na* tlonal Collegiate Play^v-riting Contest. JOHN TURNER will be assistant to the director, REV. THOMAS J. ENGLETON, C.S.C., *«, for Notre Dame's first foreign study program at Inns­bruck, Austria, and will sail from New York in August. Chicago Tribune aivards went to the following graduating ROTC men: DANIEL MANION, MI. CHAEL CILETTI, JOHN PAGEL, NICHOLAS BARD. THOM.AS NORTON. JOHN iONTZ, PAUL HUGH. DAVID McCAFFREY. STANLEY JASKUNAS, EDWARD WARD. PAUL CHAR­RONE, WILLLVM SWANSON, DANIEL TWO­MEY, DONALD DeUklANZO. and DAVID R. .\UNION. 
BOB BOHRER has joined Monsanto Company as a chemical engineer at the John F. Queeny -Plant in St. Louis. 
And as if he didn't get enough sleepless nights on the SchoIasUc, TOM HOOBLER has turned up on the editorial staff of A^T Maria magazine. 
You should be getting your Class directory by now, and Secretary CLAY STEPHENS will try to keep track of all changes of status. He'll need your cooperation as well as that of the regional reps.­Don't let him down. 
Noire Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1964-71 
2SasaSE5ESE5HSESESaSE5E5E5a5ESESaSH5a£ 
A GIFT NOW . . . 
• permits you liberal tax deduction 
* makes you donor and beneficiary 
• allows you to see your gift at work f . . . there are many reasons for giving, 
whatever is yours — add a bit of immortaliiy to the list 
why not on outright gift now to .. . Notre Danie% 
Write to: 
Assistant Director Deferred Giving University of Notre Dome Foundation Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
ssasESESESHSEsasasasHsasaHHSEsasasHSL, 







