The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
My dear Mom: 
This little Valentine has the usual trite poetry and phrases on it. I send it merely out of convention — custom. You know the little sym­bol, I guess. 
It is— as I said—the custom to send a Valentine to loved ones on this date. Why, I do not know. A loved one should need no Valen­tine, no slip of paper, colored and pretty. A loved one knows — inside —what I think of HER. She knows without a splush of red and gold tinsel what her SON feels for her. even though that son may be crude, inarticulate, cross and sometimes very, very inconsiderate. She knows, don't you MOM.' 
So, Mother, when you look at this insignificant, inexpensive little card, please don't think of it as a casual, traditional form of greeting. Please think of it as an unspoken, unwritten love for you — a love which I am too shy to admit personally. But, Mom, if you ever have any doubt as to that love, just notice my eyes when I introduce a certain 
M 
beautiful, sweet, understanding, friendly and generous woman to any of my friends—"Fellas, THIS IS MY MOTHER." That's you. Mom 
Your son. 
-r-!;:?R-v3»Kr!'es?t*Ttr=5:s's:a5=7FT^ wrr;?*?a^aoaqt^  r' riiM'MiTiWBSiiTr ri^MirMiMpriTTr-MTWMMBiMWMM^BMi^MMMiiiSwaii^MT^^iiiWw^H^iir^ 

%i:li'* wm 
iiii~i !• 11 Tii~ir'i • 

WILLIAM J. SHERRY, '21 _ Pint Vice-President 
WILLIAM B. JONES, '28 Second Vice-President 
EDWARD J. BECKMAN, '16 Third Vice-President
Zkc Notre Dame Alumnus 
DIRECTORS TO 1952 Vol. 30 No. 1 JANUARY-FEBRUARY, 1952 
WILLIAM J. SHERRY, '21 1001 First Natl. Bldg., Tulsa 3. Okla. WILLIAM B. JONES, '28....7102 Meadow Lane, Chevy Chase 15, Md. 
R. Co.NROY ScooGiNS, '24. 480 Humble Bldg., Houston, Tex.
Jaines E. Armstrong, '25, Editor 
EDWARD J. BECKMAN, '16 2 East Milt Dr., Great Neck, N. Y. 
John P. Bums, '34, Managin:; Editor John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, Associate Editor 
DIRECTORS TO 1953 
Thomas W. Carroll, '51, Editorial .Assistant HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39.. 327 Federal Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre RICHARD J. NASH, '23 78^0 S. Kilbourne, Chicago 23, III. Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered cs second class matter Oct 1, DR. MATTHEW WEIS, '22 7379 Northmoor, St. Louis 5, Mo. 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
DIRECTORS TO 1954 
JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY, '28 49 Race St., Cincinnati 2, Ohio
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
JOH.V H . NEESO.N, JR., 'CE 167 Summit Lane, Bala Cynwyd, Pa. OFFICER.S WiLLiAji C. SCHMITT, '10 2765 N.W. Nicolai St., Portland, Ore. LEO B. WARD, '20.. ..Honorary President LUTHER M . SWV'GERT, '27 6330 Hahman Ave., Hammond, Ind. 
R. CoNROv ScoGCiNs, '24 President JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Director and Secretary 


Five New Directors Installed at January Meeting 
McGoldrick Hudson 

F
IVE new members of the Alumni Board assume office Jan. 25 as the Board convenes for its annual winter meeting at the University. The new directors, elected in the 1951 voting are: J. Ralph Coryn, '22, of Moline, 111; John W. Courtney, '25, Dearborn, Mich.; Lester Foley, '24, Jacksonville, Fla.; Galvin Hudson, '15, Memphis and James McGoldrick, '39, New York City. 
Foley was elected to fill the one-year vacancy left when John Quincy Adams, '26 resigned because of the urgency of business. The remaining four directors will serve on the Board until January, 1955. Retiring Board members are:, President, R. Conroy Scoggins, '24 of Houston, Texas; Wil­liam J. Sherry, '21, Tulsa; William B. Jones, '28, Chevy Chase, Md., and Edward J. Beckman, '16, New York City. 
Pre-eminent among items for Board 
Foley 
of the University of Notre Dame Foundation—fulfilment of the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund, and one hundred per-cent alumni participation in 1952. 
Traditionally observed nationally by 117 Alumni Clubs on the Monday following Easter Monday, Universal Notre Dame Night this year falls on April 21. Indicated key city is Los Angeles, where Father John J. Cava­naugh, C.S.C., has scheduled an ap­

pearance. 
Continuing emphasis on active com­mittees in local clubs to develop an interest in and promotion of Religion and Citizenship, Preparatory' School Relations, Job Placement and Coun­seling is stressed. Election of club officers to two-year terms, recommend­ed last year receives continuing atten­tion of the Board. 
Five-yea r reunion classes haye scheduled gatherings for June 6, 7 and Courtney Corvn 
following summe r commencement. Progressive increase in member re­sponse for each postwar year has shown the five-year reunion a most salutary means of promoting class interest. Two-thirds of the classes now have full com­plements of officers, including regional vice-presidents. 
Club approval by active participa­
tion is the best argument for continu­
ing the traditional Group Communion, 
followed in most clubs by group break­
fast. Many clubs now make this a 
famil y obsei-vance. Date of the 
obser\'ance is usually the Sunday closest 
to the Feast of the Immaculate Con­

ception. 
COVER—The letter on the cover was 
composed by First Lieutenant John 
F. Crowley, '47. This big, tough Irishman's Valentine was sent from the combat area in Korea where lohn is fighting with the First Marine Division. 

consideration are the continuing goals 8 at the University, the weekend 


1 e Alumnu 
Mbishop Ot a Mailed 
Archbishop John F. O'Hara's Phila­delphia installation witnessed one of the largest gatherings of Bishops and Archbishops in the history of the city. Some 80 members of the Hierarchy were present in the Cathedral as the Archbishop was installed and later at­tended the luncheon in his honor. 
Also present in the packed cathe­dral were Gov. John S. Fine of Penn­sylvania, Mayor Joseph S. Clark, jr., of Philadelphia and Mayor Joseph Mruk of Buffalo, 1,500 Monsignori and priests, and several hundred nuns and lay people, including 70 relatives of the new Archbishop. 
On his train trip from Buffalo to Philadelphia Archbishop O'Hara rode in the car of the president of the Lehigh Valley Railroad. At Bethle­hem, Pa., the Archbishop's train was met by a special delegation from Philadelphia. The two trains were hitched together for the remaining ride to Philadelphia. 
During the trip from Buffalo Arch­bishop O'Hara requested Lehigh Rail­road officials to be allowed to ride the cab of the train's engine for a while and was granted his request. 
The great welcome given the Arch­bishop as he arrived in Philadelphia caused him to sav: "You are makinsi me feel very much at home. I know we will work well together." 
Numerous advertisements in the Philadelphia papers welcomed him to the city and tendered congratulations on his enthronement. 
An editorial in The Philadelphia Daily News declared: "Philadelphia is fortunate in having Archbishop O'Hara assigned here. A former pres­ident of Notre Dame University, he is noted as an educator and an authority on Latin-American affairs." 
The Philadelphia Inquirer said: "Philadclphians of other faiths will join their Catholic neighbors in ex­tending a warm welcome to the Most Rev. John F. O'Hara. .. . The Phila­delphia archdiocese is one of the larg­est and most flourishing in the country 
ARCHBISHOP JOHN F. O'HARA 
and the task of administering it and taking care of the spiritual needs of its more than 4,000,000 Catholics is a formidable one. But there seems to be no question of the Archbishop's ability to handle it with sure com­petence." 
Speakers at the luncheon following the installation included Bishop Jo­seph A. Burke, Au.\iliar>' of Buffalo; 

in PhOadelphia 
J. Carroll McCormick, Auxiliary of Philadelphia, and Archbishop O'Hara. 
Bishop Burke gave the farewell ad­dress on behalf of Buffalo's Catholics. He said: "God loved Philadelphia when He gave it Archbishop O'Hara." He stated that the Buffalo diocese's appreciation of Archbishop O'Hara was perhaps best expressed in the spiritual bouquet given the Arch­bishop. Noting that he had never before seen a "gift so rich," Bishop Burke pointed out that it contained 777,312 Masses, 646,726 Commun­ions, over a million Visits to the Blessed Sacrament and promises of 47,000,000 good works. 
Bishop Burke declared that Arch­bishop O'Hara "believes in the in­alienable right of every child to know and love God." For this reason, he added, he greatly strengthened the Catholic educational system in Buffalo during his six years as Bishop there. The Archbishop erected 80 new par­ishes in Buffalo, and provided for 400 new classrooms capable of accommo­dating —15,000 new pupils, Bi.shop Burke said. 
Bishop McCormick e.xtended "a most joyous and cordial welcome" to Archbishop O'Hara on behalf of the Philadelphia clergy and pledged their cooperation and obedience. 
In his reply Archbishop O'Hara re­peated the theme of his sermon: love of God. 
"Love of God can solve all the problems in the world," the Arch­bishop said. "This is the message that is constantly sent from Vatican Hill." 
Ironnd the Table at the President's Dinner 
L.  to R. Eu"cnc K. Ilviics  
William V. Raskob  
h,  to R. Jaincri A. Miilvcy  Charloi I. Ilu!skiii<:  
Viclor A. Ziminsky  
William Gar^raii  

L.  to R. Ilngh J. Kelly John K. Keiran  
Raynioii<l D. O'Connell, Jr. John S. Biirkc  
L.  to R. Joseph iVf. Hyriic, Jr. Eliag Sayoiir Rev. John J- Cavanangh, C.S.C. Aldo Bal^oni  

L, to R. Hon. Tliomas E. Mnrray Rev. John Ji Cavanangh, C.S.C. John It. Kanalcy 

L.  to R. Joseph Af. Byrne, Jr. Fritz Kreislcr Colvin W. Brown  
L,  to R. O.S(*ar John IJorn-in Ben Duffy Robert E. Dwvcr  

L. to R. William M. Hickey, Harrj- C. Haperty Andrew B. Shea, William Fay, Michael P. Grace 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Dinner of the President's Committee 
A 
MEMORABLE and moving dinner was given by the President's Committee of Greater New York at the Park Lane Hotel in New York City on November 14. It was memorable and moving because it was the last time that this group will thus meet officially with Father Cavanaugh, whose term as President of Notre Dame ends, by Canon law, in July 1952. 
It was an impressive gathering of more than 100 out­standing leaders from many fields, for the most part non-alumni of the University, and representing all religious denom­inations. 
This was the third annual dinner given by the New York group, as the first of the four President's Committees now acting as counselors and advisors to Father Cavanaugh. Other Committees in Chicago, Cleveland and South Bend function in the same way. Still others in other areas are planned or in process of organization. 
These formal dinners during this final year of the regime of one of Notre Dame's greatest and best loved presidents will serve to lend impetus to the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund. It was announced that the New York group have already obtained in cash or pledges some $150,000—more than half of their quota. 
The guest speaker of the evening was Thomas E. Murray, who in addition to his preeminence in the field of fiance and business, possesses one of the finest engineering and scientific minds in the country. He is now a member of the Atomic Energy Commission; and his talk was a vivid and dramatic discussion of some phases of present atomic endeavor, and the fabulous possibilities of the future. 
Frank C. Walker Unable to Attend 
JOHN B- KANALEY, Foundation Chairman of Greater New York acted as presiding officer in place of Frank C. Walker, who was absent because of illness. He read a letter which Mr. Walker, had addressed to Father Cavanaugh expressing his regret that he could not be present, and containing the following statement: "I have come to look on this occasion as one of the out­standing events of the year. Especially did I want to be there tonight for I know it is to be your last official dinner wt h the President's Committee, of which you are the Founder .. . I had hoped to report personally to you of the progress that has been made by your committee in the three short years of its existence . . . "In passing, I might mention that largely through the good offices of your President's Committee we have obtained in cash and pledges $150,000 for the Father Cavanaugh Three Million Dollar Fund. Thus, at the mere inception of an 18­month campaign, we have acquired more than one-half of our quota." Mr. Kanaley then introduced James A. Mulvey, Chairman of the Executive Committee, who gave a heart-warming tribute to Father Cavanaugh and to his fellow members of the President's Committee. He pointed out that the Committee, for the most part, includes men who never attended Notre • Dame, and was in itself an indication of what they believed 
January-February, 1952 
the University stands for in the life of this country. 
He recalled a time when he and Father Cavanaugh were 
driving through East Harlem on Lexington Avenue in New 
York. "You were quietly observing the neighborhood," he 
said turning to Father Cavanaugh, "and you said, 'If I had 
a choice of what I would most like to do I would be a parish 
priest among these poor people. I could do so much among 
them'." 

"I don't mention this incident as a foreshadowing of your 
next assignment," Mr. Mulvey concluded, "but I do think it' 
is another example of what a great man and what a great 
priest you are. And whatever your assignment I hope that 
Notre Dame will continue to have the benefit of your great 
talent- . . ." 

"The very fabric of material creation" 
I
N his address on the general subject of Atomic Energy in peace and war, Mr. Murray said: "Men have looked up to the sun and wondered why it has been flaming these unimaginable centuries. Other fires bum out . . . but the center of our planetary system has been incandescent for millions of years. What manner of fiery energy is this? 
"It is Atomic Energy—the energy of nuclear radiation. . . . Yes, at long last man has found that Atomic Energy is the very foundation and the very fabric of all material crea­tion." 
Mr. Murray, who is a forceful and eloquent speaker, pointed out that within the last ten years the exploitation of Atomic Energy has progressed from a laboratory technician's dream into one of the largest industries in the United States, representing a capital investment of five billion dollars—^\vhich will soon be doubled. 
Disclaiming any desire to rival the Sunday supplements in delineating Utopia, Mr. Murray said that the possibilities of nuclear power are almost unlimited—more portentous than the introduction of the steam engine, the dynamo or the airplane. 
Atomic submarines able to cruise submerged at surface speeds for untold periods wth'out refueling are in prospect. Aircraft capable of encircling the globe for months and months at supersonic speeds will follow. Miracles in the .fields of agriculture and- medicine even more astonishing to the layman are coming in the not too distant future. 
Mr. Murray concluded his stirring address by 'Saying: ". . . It is for the world to recognize in every majestic scientific discovery additional reasons for loving God and our neighbor as ourselves . . ." 
Father Cavanaugh Reports on His Stewardship 
I
N his characteristically impressive way. Father Cavanaugh gave a brief review of some of the highlights of his "stewardship" in the address which brought the formal part of the program to a close. 
"A university to be great," he said, "must have a great student body; it must have a great faculty; it must have ample facilities." 
Notre Dame's student body, he said, has increased by some 50% since 1946—from 3,389 to 5,006. Most of the applicants were accepted from the top third of their high school gradu­ating classes. They come from South, North, East and West and 28 foreign countries: and about 10% of them are non-Catholic. 
"We have a faculty," Father Cavanaugh went on, "chosen from every great university' in this country and abroad, and we are ver>' proud of this facult\'. But we think at Notre Dame that a faculty does its best work when it itself is learn­ing. So we have increased in five years the amount of money we are spending on research from a hundred thousand dollars to more than a million, one hundred thousand dollars." 
Referring to enlargement of facilities, he said: "Our bud­get in 1945 and '46 amounted to about $4,500,000. Today it amounts to slightly over $9,000,000." 
Father Cavanaugh mentioned also the Ernest M. Morris Inn, made possible by the million-dollar donation of a Presby­terian alumnus of Notre Dame. And he spoke of, among other benefactions,- the liberal and fine arts center, the gift of 
I. A. Shaughnessy of St. Paul; the new residence hall, gift of Mrs. Fred J. Fisher of Detroit; the loan fund for needy stu­dents likewise the gift of Mrs. Fisher; and the new Science Building made- possible through sundr\' gifts of alumni and friends. 
He described, then, some of the cultural programs initiated or carried forward during the last few years—among them, the Natural Law Institute, the Mediaeval Institute, and the germ-free laboratory technique (internationally known as LOBUND) developed by Professor Reyniers. 
Father Cavanaugh's talk, though brief and informal, was indeed an inspiring summary' of a great educational leader's conception of the responsibility' of a university' in these momen­tous times. 
The evening closed with a question-and-answer sessioH in which Father Cavanaugh spoke of his conviction on numerous subjects quite fully and frankly, but with' the request that for the most part they be regarded as "off-the-record." 
However, in describing the participation of the laity in the administration of the university, he did mention a few facts that may be repeated here, which will be of interest and perhaps something of a surprise even to those most familiar with the University. 
"In our faculty," he said, "of about 500, there are as many non-Catholics as there are priests. There are 80 priests on our faculty; and 80 non-Catholics; and the remaining 340 or so are Catholic laymen." 
In answer to another question. Father Cavanaugh e.K­plained that the University is divided into five colleges, over each of which there is a dean. "Only one of these deans is a priest," he said. "Four are laymen. And out of about 57 departments, some 50 are headed by laymen." 
"Besides," he continued, "we have an Associate Board of lay trustees which has been operating at the University for 30 years. Many members of that Board are here tonight. And there are councils for science and engineering, and a council for commerce. There will be a council for liberal and fine arts, and finally a council for law made up partly of alumni, partly of non-alumni. These boards and councils by their advice have more to do with shaping the policies of the University, I think, than any other force—and they are manned by laymen." 
"For example," he continued, "the Associate Board of Lay Trustees has been functioning for 30 years in handling the finances of the University. Now, within the last three years, its sphere of operations has been enlarged so that it supervises ever>'thing that goes on at the Universit>'." 
Bob Walsh, '30, who died Nov. 3, 1931. Bob died in an auto accident in Phila­delphia, a few blodis from his home. A nephew of Father Patrick J. Haggerty, 

Seatde Retreat Master Fr. Richard J. Collentine, C.S.C. and Club members, L. to R.: Joe C.S.C., he entered Notte Dame in 1949 Manley, Bill Hemey, Retreat Chairman, Morrie Starrett and August von Boecltlin. on an engineering fellowship. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 



Dean Hanion Resigns as Law Mm\ Head 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the university announced on Jan. 11 the resignation of Clarence 
E. Manion, '22, for the past eleven years Dean of the College of Law. 
Father Cavanaugh, in making the announcement, said that Dean Manion tendered his resignation because "the pressure of private business, together with a constantly lengthening schedule of writing and speaking commitments, now makes it physically impossible for me to continue to administer the affairs of the Law School." 
Father Cavanaugh said Dean Man­ion's resignation will become effective in June. A successor will be named at a later date. 
Manion, who has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1924, also is nationally-recognized as an out­standing orator and author. His latest book, "The Key to Peace," is a current best-seller. He has been Dean of the College of Law since 1941. 
During his tenure as dean, Manion was instrumental in the founding of the Notre Dame Natural Law Insti­tute. Held annually in the College of Law since 1947, it is designed to emphasize the Natural Law (man's participation in the Law of God) as the basis of democracy and the Amer­ican way of life, and to urge a return to the Natural Law principles by the nation's legal profession. Several hun­dred legal experts annually attend the Notre Dame Institute. 
Manion, in tendering his resigna­tion said: "The pressure of my private business, together with a constantly lengthening schedule of writing and speaking commitments, now makes it physically impossible for me to con­tinue to administer the affairs of the Law School. I have reached this con­clusion with great reluctance and regret, but I am, nevertheless, happy in the conviction that the College has now reached a new high peak of achievement in all of its departments. Our faculty is the best in our history and it is doing excellent work with a carefully screened student body, repre­senting practically every state in the union. The College is ripe for a new phase of progressive achievement. It ate and prayerful good wishes." 
In announcing the resignation. Father Cavanaugh said: "Dean Man­ion, in his twenty-eight years on our faculty, and even in his undergraduate years in our College of Law, exempli-
CLARENCE E. MANION 

Red the qualities Notre Dame exists to implant. He has contributed in a singular way to American life. His career has marked the personal, the professional, and the spiritual that add up to a remarkable epitome of what Notre Dame means by moral, respons­ible leadership." 
The national recognition of Dean Manion as one of the great modem voices of fundamental Americanism reflects how deep must be our loss in permitting him to resign. Our justifi-. cation is in the added freedom he will have to pursue the widening opportu­nities for his talents in the era of critical need which they serve. Natur­ally, it is with regret that we accept his resignation. The remarkable pro­gress of the College of Law, tmder his direction, is a record of real achieve­ment of which Notre Dame men every­where are proud and will remain ever grateful." 
A native of Henderson, Ky., Man­ion received a Bachelor of Arts degree from St. Mary's College in Kentucky in 1915. He received a Master of Arts degree from the CathoUc Uni­versity of America, Washington, D. C, in 1916, and a Master of Philosophy degree from the same institution in 1917. He was awarded the J.D. degree by Notre Dame in 1922, following mili­tary service in World War I. 
During the national emergency from 1935 to 1938, the Notre Dame edu­cator served as director of the National Emergency for the State of Indiana, at the same time continuing his duties at Notre Dame. He also is a member of the American Bar Association's Special Committee to Study Conmiu­nist Tactics and Objectives. He has been honored in both 1950 and 1951 with an award from the Freedoms Foundation. 
In addition to "The Key to Peace," Dean Manion has authored two texts, "Lessons in Liberty," and one on Air Law, both of which have been widely adopted for class use in schools throughout the United States. He also wrote "Americanism." 
Dr. Manion, besides his duties at Notre Dame, has engaged in the prac­tice of law as a member of the firm, Doran and Manion, in South Bend. 
has and will always have my affection-
The Baltimore Club's Annual Family CommuiiMm Breakfast, at Loyola College Dec 9. 

Fonndation M Governors and Citi Uairmen 
Listing as of January 1, 1952 
Aberdeen, S. D. Chairman: T. C. Kasper, '21 
Akron, O. 
Chairman: William G. Burkhardt, '35 
Albany, N. Y. 
Cliairman: John F. Campbell, '26 
Albuquerque, N. M. 
Chairman: Louis C. Lujan, '24 Algona, Lu Chairman: W. Wade SuUi\-an, '26 
AUentown, Pa. 
Chairman: Leo R. Mclntyre, '28 
Anderson, Ind. 
Chairman: Elmo A. Funk, '11 
Anthracite Area, Pa. 
Chairman: Hugh L. Campbell, Jr., '27 
Arlington, Mass. 
Chairman: Robert E. Donovan, '33 Asbury Park, N. J. Chairman: Herbert P. McCabe, '28 Asheville, N. C Chairman: Edward J. Koontz, '32 
Ashtabula, O. 
Chairman: John W. Zabach, '31 
Atlanta, Ga. 
Chairman: Alfred R. .\brams, '21 Auburn, N. Y. Chairman: George B. Shamon, '31 Augusta, Me. Ciiairman: Roland E. DeCoteau, '37 
Aurora, Neb. 
Chairman: George C. Wanek, '29 
Baltimore, Md. 
Chairman: Franklin C. Hochreiter, '36 
Batavia, N. Y. 
Chairman: Lawrence T. Casey, '25 
Battle Creek, Mich. 
Chairman: Francis L. Murray, '32 
Beaumont, Texas 
Chairman: Clyde E. Broussard, '13 
Beaver County, Pa. 
Chairman: Frank R. Totera, '50 

Bedford, Ind. 
Chairman: Clarence J. Donovan, '31 Belmont, Mass. Chairman: Joseph P. Sulli\-an, '22 
Benton Harbor, Niles & St. Joseph, Mich. 
Chairman: Gerard C. Theisen, '32 

Berks County, Pa. 
Chairman: Frank L. McManus, '44 Binghamton, N. Y. 
Chairman: John F. Donnelly, '34 Blair, Centre, Huntingdon and Bedford Counties, Pa. 
Chairman: C. P. Lytle, '28 Boise, Idaho Chairman: Jess B. Hawley, Jr., '36 Boston, Mass. Chairman: Robert N. SulliN-an, '43 
Bradford County, Pa. 
Chairman: James W. CuUen, '28 

Brainerd, Minn. 
Chairman: Joseph R. Dunn, '27 Brockton, Mass. Chairman: Hugh F. Blunt, '24 Buffalo, N. Y. Chairman: Bernard J. Bird, '28 Burlington, Vt. Chairman: Frederick J. Fayette, '33 
Butler, Pa. 
Chairman: William J. Rockenstein, '34 

Butte, Mont 
Chairman: Richard C. Monahan, '98 

Cambridge, Mass. Chairman: Charles F. Crowley, '13 
Camden, N. J. 
Chairman: Daniel D. Halpin, '31 

Canton, O. 
Ciiairman: Charles A. Kolp, Jr., '38 

Carbon and Schuyllull Coimties, Pa. 
Chairman: John B. McGurl, '37 Charleston, W. Va. Chairman: Vincent J. Reishman, '34 
Chattanooga, Term. 
Chairman: John W. Terrell, '39 

Cheyeimc, Wyo. 
Chairman: James G. Murphy, '37 Chicopee, Mass. Chairman: Raymond P. Snyder, '31 
Cincinnati, O. 
Chairman: John H. Heilker, '30 

Clearfield, Cameron, Elk and Jefferson Counties, Pa. 
Chairman: Regis J. Maloney, '29 

Cleveland, O. 
Chairman: Norman J. McLeod, '29 Clinton, Mass. Chairman: John F. Burke, '29 
Colorado Springs, Colo. 
Chairman: William J. Donelan, Jr., '29 

Columbus, O. 
Chairman: John C. Fontana, '28 

Commg, N. Y. 
Chairman: Peter M. GriflSn, '07 

Covington, Ky. 
Chairman: John B. Brinker, '33 

Crawford County, Pa. 
Chairman: Matthew J. Bajorek, '45 

Dallas, Texas 
Chairman: Thomas E. BranifT, non-alumni Co-Chairman: D. Pat Buell, '24 

Davenport, la. 
Chairman: Jerome C. Arnold, '24 

Dayton, O. 
Chairman: Eugene A. Mayl, '24 

Denver, Colo. 
Cliainnan: Joseph A. Craven, '20 

Des Moines, la. 
Chairman: James C. Sliaw, '22 

Detroit, Mich. 
Chairman: Arthur D. Cronin, Jr., '36 Co-Ciiairman: Hugh Dean, non alumni 

Dover, N. H. 
Chairman: Thomas H. Keenan, non-alumni 

Dubuque, la. 
Chairman: Thomas B. Sclunid, '40 

Dnlnth, Minn. 
Chairman: William E. Cotter, Jr., '41 

East Chicago, Ind. 
Chairman: Norbert S. Wleklinski, '44 

Eau Clain^ Wis. 
Chairman: C. Thomas Downs, '33 Elizabedi, N. J. Chairman: James T. Quinn, '27 
FaAer Cavanaugh checks the Washington Club's Directory. With him, L. to R. tm a •not Elkhart, Ind. to die Caintol: Paul TuUy, '39; Leo MuIIin, '11; Fr. Bernard Ransing and Jack Barber. Chairman: Robert F. Holtz, '38 Efanira, N. Y. 
Chairman: Francis F. O'Brien, '35 El Paso, Texas Chairman: heo J. Momsen, '21 Elyria, O. Chairman: Allan W. Fritzsche, '18 Erie, Pa. Chairman: George Mead, '27 Evansville, Ind. Chairman: Ralph F. Heger, '25 Fall River, Mass. Chairman: Thomas Collins, '28 Fargo, N. D. Chairman: Edward A. Simonson, '44 Flint, Mich. Chairman: James Pearson, '26 
Fond du Lac, Wis. Chairman: Roland A. Martin, '39 Co-Chairman: Emery W. Martin, '41 
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. Chairman: Robert H. Gore, Jr., '31 Ft. Madison, la. Chairman: Robert R. Phelan, '22 Fort Wayne, Ind. Chairman: Thomas A. McKieman, '27 Fort Worth, Tex. Chairman: James Record, '04 Gary, Ind. Chairman: C. W. Bader, '19 Geneva, N. Y. Chairman: Clare L. Touhey, '26 Grand Rapids, Mich. Chairman: Joseph F. Deeb, '31 Hamilton, O. Chairman: Marcellus A. Fiehrer, '27 Hammond, Ind. Chairman: Timothy P. Galvin, '16 Hannibal, Mo. Chairman: William H. Meyer, '40 Hairisbui^, Pa. Chairman: Edward R. Eckenrode, Jr., '44 
Hartford, Conn. Chairman: Timothy J. Murphy, Jr., '24 Co-Chairman: Thomas B. Curry, '14 
Haverhill, Mass. Chairman: Henry G. Armitage, '40 Hibbing, Minn. Chairman: Francis J. Ryan, '36 Holyoke, Mass. Chairman: Ulric J. Ruell, 'II 
Houston, Texas Chairman: George W. Strake, Ll.D.,'49 Co-Chairman: R. Conroy Scoggins, '24 
Huntington, W. Va. Chairman: Frank S. Doriot, '23 Hyannis, Mass. Chairman: Vincent D. O'Neil, '32 Idaho Falls, Idaho Chairman: James M. Brady, '29 Indianapolis, Ind. Chairman: Walter J. Stuhldreher, '22 Jadison, Mich. Chairman: Joseph A. Na\'arre, '26 Jackson, Miss. Chairman: James T. Canizaro, '28 Jacksonville, Fla. Chairman: George P. Coyle, ST., non-alumni Jersey City, N. J. Chairman: George E. Wenz, Jr., '34 Johnstown, Pa. Chairman: Stephen J. Conway, Jr., '37 Joliet, lU Chairman: William J. Bossingham, '25 Kalamazoo, Mich. . Chairman: Arthur J. Mulholland, Jr., '36 Kansas City, Mo. Chairman: Joseph R. Stewart, '22 
FOUNDATION'S FORCES 
The University of Notre Dame Foundation is organized nation­wide with a field force of 49 State Governors and 232 City Chairmen and their Committees. Including Committeemen the entire group now niunbers more than 1200 alumni and other friends. 
Working on a volunteer basis many Governors and Chairmen have just completed their fourth year of activity in the Founda­tion program. Local Club Presi­dents are e.x officio members of the Notre Dame Foundation committees in club cities and areas. 
ALL alumni are urged to co­operate fully with Foundation representatives during the year 1952, and particularly during the remaining six months of the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund. An alumnus can honor Father Cavanaugh not only with a personal gift to the Testimonial Fund but he can also encourage a non-alumnus friend to send a contribution to Notre Dame. 

Kokomo, Ind. Chairman: Mark E. Zimmerer, '21 LaCrosse, Wise. Chairman: August M. Grams, '28 Lafayette, Ind. Chairman: Kenneth F. Laws, '36 Lakeland, Fla. Chairman: Joseph E. Keefe, '29 Lancaster, Pa. Chairman: Paul J. Gschwend, '40 LaPorte, Ind. Chairman: Alban M. Smith, '29 Lawrence, Mass. Chairman: James R. Dooley, '22 Lawrence County, Pa. Chairman: Herman W. Gre_en, '36 Lewiston, Idaho Chairman: Francis E. Stenstrom, '48 Lcwiston-Aubum, Maine Chairman: Paul Scully, Jr., '41 Little Rock, Ark. Chairman: Kervin J. Williams, '28 Logansport, Ind. Chairman: James E. Digan, '29 Lorain, O. Chairman: John P. Chapla, '23 Los Angeles, Cal. Chairman: Terence B. Cosgrove, '06 Co-Chairman: Leo B. Ward, '20 Louisville, Ky. Chairman: Roger J. Huter, '40 Lowell, 'Mass. 
Ljachbuft Va. Chainnan: Paul M. Morrison, .'40 :.-„ Madisoo, WBC. Chainnan: Dan W. McCluskey, '27 MaloM, N. Y. Chainnan: Comelius J. Caiey, Jr., *30 MaKiMstcr, N. H. Chainnan: Frandi J. Hand, '30 Mandu^N. D. Chainnan: William L. Neff, '29 > Marinette, >«%c Chainnan: Joseph A. Lauerman, '31 Mario*, bd . Chainnan: James M. Gartland, '41 Marion, O. Chainnan: Daniel M. Murphy, '39 McKean, Wanen & PMter Conaticf, Fi. Chairman: William P. McVay, '40 Melnisc, Mass. Chairman: James A. Day, '33 Memphis, Tcnn. Chairman: P. A. McPhillips, '90 Mcicer County, Pa. Chairman: James A. Biggins, '31 
Miam^ Fla. Chairman: Walter D. Rowlands, '15 Asst Chairman: Paris Cowart, '34 
Micb^fan City, Ind. Chairman: Mark Storen, '22 Mnford, Mass. Chairman: Cyril F. Kellett, '22 
Milwaukee, Wise Chairman: Fred C. Miller, '29 Co-Chairman: William G. Malaney, '41 
Minot, N. D. Chairman: £. G. DeMots, non-alumni Minneapolis, Minn. Chairman: William Guimont, '35 Miriine, DL Chainnan: John R. Coryn, '22 Mcmessen, Pa. . . Chairman: Edward J. Dean, '28' Mranoe, Mich. • Chairman: Thomas E. Gri£Sn, '33 Mott, N. D. " Chairman: Robert V. Trousdale, '37 Munde, Ind. Chairman: Thomas A. Cannon, '33 Muscatine, la. Chairman: Robert L. Roach, '15 ' Musk^oB, Mich. Chairman: John F. Frederick, '28 . Nashville, Tenn. Chairman: Frederick F. Swint, '31 Newark, N. J. Chairman: Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15 
Newark, O. Chainnan: Charles A. McGonaglc, '24 Co-Chairman: Michael P. Clouse, '39 Co-Chairman: Harry F. Kilburgcr, '32 
New Orleans, La. Chairman: William B. Dreux, '33 Newport, K^ I. Chairman: James J. Connell, '14 New Uhn, Minn. Chainnan: Otto J. Seifert, non-alunmi New York, N. Y. Chairman: John B. Kanaley, '09 Northampton, Mass. Chairman: Donald D. Sullivan, '30 Notre Dame, Ind. Chairman: James E. McCarthy, non­aliunni Ogdensba^, N. Y. Chairman: Joseph R. Brandy, '21 (Continued on page 38) 
Chairman: Chester P. McDonald, '27 
ing not only to become a specialist in a field of his choice, but at the same 

Zucufi in J!.044444AdU 6UL QonieAi
time learn to apply to his actions in 
By LEE SCHAFFNER Flaget High School 
Everyone prepares for some job in 

life. They study, practice, gain ex­
perience, or in some way become pro­
ficient in a particular t>'pe of work. 
This time spent in preparation is not 
considered wasted. It is an integral 
part of the future, for it is the founda­
tion upon which the superstnicture of 
future success will be built. 
Preparation for a job in life is im­

portant, but it is more important to 
prepare for the job of life. It is im­
portant to study, practice, and gain 
experience in those matters \vhich will 
make one a successful Catholic in the 
eyes of God, as well as a successful 
money-maker in the eyes of man. 
Since both these preparations are of 

such unequivocal value, they should be 
incorporated into one tj-pe of educa­
tion, and they have been so incorporat­
ed in a Catholic college. Catholic coll­
eges offer a united educational system 
that produces both well-trained pro­
fessional men and exemplar^' Catholic 
gentlemen. Such a system allows the 
mind and the soul to increase together 
in capacity and understanding. In this 
way, one force complements rather 
than obliterates the other. The soul 
then acts as a refining. influence upon 
the mind and as a constant reminder 
that all knowledge comes from God. 
Education in a secular college does not put enough emphasis on the significance of the soul. An education of this kind can lead a student from spiritual things by imparting the power of knowledge without the guiding control of religion. The soul, allowed to grow weak, soon may become sub­ordinate to the mind. Such domina­tion by the intellect may lead to the accepting of false doctrines and ir­religious practices; because, a highly developed mind is not of itself a pro­tection against evil. Horeover, reason alone does not always offer a correct solution to questions. 
In order to correct the undesirable effects of secular education. Catholic colleges offer a balanced education, complete in every detail. The men who graduate from Catholic schools are equipped in every way to meet and successfully cope with the perplexities of life. They know their goals in life, and they are given the means to reach 
them. They are taught to think wt h 
independence and logic, and to express 
themselves clearly and forcefully. They 
learn the dignity of human existence, 
and know how to associate agreeably 
with their fellow citizens. Consequent­
ly, they realize what is expected of 
them as men, as Catholics, and as citi­
zens of a free country. 
If it were necessary to choose the 

most .important advantage to be 
gained through education in a Cath­
olic college, the choice would be 
preparation. There is no other prep­
aration for an adult life that can 
equal that given in a Catholic college. 
Any secular college can prepare a stu­
dent for the relatively short life on 
earth, but a Catholic college, in addi­
tion, prepares him for an eternal life 
after death. 
Those who have not had the benefit of a Catholic education in college will feel their loss when they find that they know more about the structure of the earth than about the Creator of the earth: more about their profession than about their religion; and more about life than about the purpose of life— the attainment of heaven. 
By JOHN F. DONNELLY, JR. St. Xavier High School 

If the Catholic high school student has gained anything at all from his early religious training, it is certainly a firm conviction that the only im­portant job he has to do in this world is to save his immortal soul, for he knows that it will profit him nothing to gain the whole world and suffer its loss. He understands full well that the precious gift of Faith, which be­came his when the waters of Baptism were poured over his head, is a vital, living thing which must be nourished from the -cradle to the grave if he wishes to grow in grace, as well as in age and wisdom. To neglect or to ignore this wonderful gift of Gk»d means to remain forever a spiritual midget and perhaps to run the risk of failing to accomplish the whole purpose of existence. 
Convinced of these facts, the Cath­olic desiring to pursue higher educa­tion would do well to seek a Catholic college, for there only can he be certain that the proper safeguards will be thrown around this hidden treasure. He will have the opportunity of learn­
that field, well founded Christian prin­
ciples. In other words, he \vill_be 
adiieving values which will give qual­
ity, quantity and direction to his 
future life in the world, and thus make 
him a more useful citizen. 
To be more specific, a Catholic col­

lege is a must for Catholics seeking 
knowledge, for the following reasons: 
1.
 There he will never learn half-truths from the lips of men who do not know God, or choose to ignore Him; 

2.
 There he will never be called upon to study the creature apart from its Creator; 

3.
 There he will never be asked to read literature detrimental to his finest beliefs; 

4.
 There he will never be ex­posed to philosophies which ignore the dignity of man. 



On the contrary, he will be re­minded over and over again that having been given the Truth he must share it; that all things are made by God and must be used only in so far as they will take us back to Him; that the understanding is a spiritual faculty which must not be undermined by modem "isms"; and finally, that "we are our brother's keeper" and that we cannot achieve success at his expense. 
In short, trained along these lines, the Catholic college graduate will be well fortified for the battle of life, and will be more certain of arriving at his ultimate goal—Heaven. 
Ilgfae Woods, '33, Federal Housing Expe­diter, and Tom Adamson, '36, assistant director of Public Relations for Bowman Dairy, Chicago, showring their awards from the American Public Relations Association in Philadelphia. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Sheehan Calls for 
Economic Realism 
Professor John H. Sheehan, Head of 
the Department of Economics at the 
University, told members of the Cath­
olic Economics Association that "eco­
nomists must apply their knowledge 
and skill to matters of economic prob­
lems and policy" rather than escaping 
into abstraction and avoiding the real 
world of human beings. 
Professor Sheehan, who is retiring President of the Catholic Economics Asociation, told the meeting that eco­nomists in general must consider such worldly things as "markets and price movements, inflation and deflation, taxation and government spending" for the benefit of society. 
The Notre Dame economist told the gathering that "while economic theory and analysis is a key part of econom­ics, it is essentially an important tool." As such it should be fashioned "primarily for use as a tool, in evalu­ating and directing economic policy." 
Since economics is concerned chiefly with the behavior of man using ma­terial things, economists should accept the responsibility of making value judgments, calling some economic ar­rangements good, some bad, some in­different as they see them, according to Professor Sheehan. 
"Any educated, responsible man, economist or otherwise, should be in possession of an adequate working knowledge of ethics," he said. If so, it would seem that value .judgments on economic policy should not be left entirely to politicians and news com­mentators—competent and otherwise —or abandoned to Marxists and other misguided materialists." 

Flannery Edits Daily 
Harry W. Flannery, '23, former CBS continental bureau chief in Eu­rope, has left his post as political and foreign affairs editor of the Catholic Digest to become editor of the AFL News-Reporter, new national news­paper published by the American Federation of Labor. 
This was announced by the Rev. Paul Bussard, editor of the Catholic Digest, who said that Flannery left St, Paul January I for Washington, D. C, where the AFL News-Reporter is 
Flannery has been with the Catholic Digest for the past year. He went to St. Paul from Los Angeles, where he had been a news commentator for the Coliunbia Broadcasting System and was a makeup editor of the Los Ange­les Examiner. He covered West Coast assignments for Commonweal. 
The veteran broadcaster and news­paperman has been in the news-gather­ing business since 1916. He went into radio in 1932, and in 1940 succeeded William L. Shirer in Berlin as conti­nental bureau chief for CBS. His assignments included the invasion of Crete, fighting in Yugoslavia and Greece, and the outbreak of the Ger­man-Russian war. Later he covered fronts in Burma and China. 
In recent years Mr. Flannery took over the AFL radio program on the Mutual Broadcasting System during Frank Edward's vacations. He covered the 1948 national elections for MBS television on the West Coast, and headed the staff of commentators for the American Broadcasting Company TV show on the West Coast in 1950. 
The AFL News-Reporter published its first issue December 5. 

100 fo GradMol* !• Joa. 26 CoMH 
A total of 100 undergraduate and graduate students at the University will receive decrees at a special Convoca* tion for the Conferring of Degrees, January 26th. 
Professor John J. Sheehan, Head <A the Department of Economics Avill de> liver the Convocation Address at the ceremonies, which will be held for those students who successfully conir plete at the end of the Fall semester all requirements for degrees. Pro­fessor Sheehan, Economics head since 1942, has served as an arbitrator in labor-management disputes since the middle of World War IL He is past president of the Catholic Economic 
Association. 
The program will open Saturday morning, January 26th, with a.Solemn High Baccalaiueate Mass to foe cele­brated by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President The Rev. Charles 
E. Sheedy, C.S.C, Head of the De­partment of Religion will deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon. . ­
Tickets for Denver's TV FootbaO Party. 
 Tom GmtfUi, '49, Scoctain.Bct^r Cdbimqr, 

edited. Charlie Haskell, '29, and Tom Cunigan, '41. Bob Fljm, QA Fkcddca^ • icatcd. 
U.


January-February, 1952 



A New Kind of Irish Found 
The F^anishing Ones 
counties comprising the Republic of 
Ireland, known also as Eire. 
While emigration is a contributing factor in the decline, the chief cause is the small number who marry and the late age at which they marry. The last census disclosed that only two out of every five Irishmen between 30 and 34 years old are married, the lowest proportion in the world, the article declares. 
That Ireland is rapidly becoming a nation of bachelors and old maids is evidenced by the recent census show­ing that 65% of the population is single, 6% \vidowed and only 28% married, the Notre Dame priest points out. If an Irish colleen wishes to marry, the article observes, she had best flee the Emerald Isle, for most of the men there turn up their noses at the suggestion of wedding bells and are busy only in dodging Cupid's arrows. They seem blind to the fact that this spells national suicide. 
"It is a piece of cruel and tragic irony," states Father O'Brien, "that in spite of its proud traditions Eire has one of the lowest birth rates in the world. It is doubly pathetic to note that the officials of a nation, which has been digging its own grave for a whole century, have voiced no alarm, nor adopted any effective measures to arrest the impending tragedy." 
Ireland, points out the Notre Dame writer, is like a man twanging a guitar and singing of fairies and leprechauns in blissful unconcern that his canoe is about to go over Niagara Falls. Only if her leaders open their eyes to the fact that Ireland is already half-way in the grave and take vigorous and determined action on a wide scale can they save the nation from complete extinction. 
The tragic fate facing Ireland is particularly distressing to her sons in America, who are dismayed at the sfiectacle of Ireland rapidly becoming a land of foreigners where the ex­tinct Irish vrill be found only in mauso­leums, tombs and graves. Father O'Brien explains. 
—Raymond J. Donovan, -'41 
Because fewer men and women marry in Ireland than in any other country in the civilized world, Eire is rapidly becoming a nation of bachelors and old maids and the Irish people are vanishing from the face of the earth. 
Thus states Rev. Dr. John A, O'Brien, of the University, in an ar­ticle, "The Vanishing Irish", appear­ing in the Jan. issue of St- Joseph's Magazine, published by the Benedic­tine Fathers at St. Benedict, Oregon. 
This finding comes as a shock be­cause Ireland is famous for its beauti­ful colleens and its warm-hearted people and is commonly pictured as a land of romantic lovers, according to Father O'Brien. The discovery is as ironical as it is startling because the Irish people have traditionally held large families in high esteem and have frowned upon artificial birth control, he points out. 
For more than a century the popu­lation of Ireland .has been steadily de­clining. While the other nations of Europe were doubling and tripling their population, Ireland was dwind­ling to less than half. 
From a population of 6,548,000 in 1840, the population dwindled to 2,992,034 in 1940, Father O'Brien re­veals. The figures are for the 26 

Marine Lt Walter Murphy, Jr., '30, of Charleston, S. C, taldng congratulatioiis fr«Hn Gca. James A. Van Fleet after u-inning^ the Distinguished Service Cross in Korea. 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

Joe Stewart, seated left and Dick Prezebel with Joe's Kansas City Man-of-the-Year Award. Standing: Wightkin, Rykovits, Zaicski, Williams, Lujack, Connor 
THE SPIRITUAL BOUQUET 
A note from Father Cavandugh 

Dear Fellow Alumni and Youjr Families: The invaluable aid and inspiration of your Spiritual Bouquet, brought together on Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, December 9, is one of the richest experiences of my administration. In a dramatic, personal way, I am made to realize that you are conscious of the problems Notre Dame faces and of the unfathomable source to Whom we must all turn for their solution. Like good sons of Notre Dame, you take your beads in a fervent appeal for the intercession of the Blessed Mother. Masses—7,595 of them; 7,490 Holy Communions; 10,489 Rosaries, and, an 
expression I specially cherish, the offer of prayers from 43 of our non-Catholic alumni—combined to bring me new courage and a new vision of the future. 
For the cards, indicating your re­membrances and for the many lovely personal messages, I thank you. That the alumni and their families share with 
Notre mary house, . . . in the 
 Dame's administration belief that "unless God he labors in vain who This means blessings for
 days to come. 

llUf.[o^^-^­
 the pri­ build the  builds it"  all of us 

THOMAS F. COMAN, '25 

First newspaperman appointed to the W^ e Stabilization Board, Tom Coman has been 'in newspaper work since he graduated from the Univer­sity in 1925. 
linmediately after graduation he went with the South Bend News-Times, and left that papier to join the Detroit biu«au of Associated Press. From Detroit he moved to Washington, whiere his spiecialized knowledge of labor problems earned him a' top rating in reporting from the Capitol side. 
From the Associated Press Labor beat he moved in 1941 to the Bureau of National Affairs, a private oigani­zation engaged in publishing daily and weekly reports relating to current legal and economic problems. 
Mr Coman is 49, married, and has two grandchildren. 


Dacca Trade School 
From Brother Jude, C.S.C., to Jim Armstrong. 
"You asked about an article on our trade school here, for the ALUMNUS. 
"I drafted one shortly after return­ing here from the States last year, but since we have nothing definite as to land and buildings I was unable to get picttu-es. Even now we have not set­tled on a site, but as soon as we do you'll have your article, Mr. Editor. 

"We read every page of the ALUM­NUS to keep up on things. Today 
Pat Manion gets a silver cigarette box from the Law Alumni. L. to R.: Gerard Feeney, we're still wondering about the out­of South Bend; Leo Ward, Bill Jones, Dean Manion, Father Hesburgh, Bob Sullivan. come of the Michigaii State Game." 



SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
WILLIAM P. HUGHES, '34 
Recently appiointed assistant director of agencies for Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., Bill Hughes has been broadening his insurance back­ground for 15 years. 
He began in 1935 with a firm of consulting actuaries engaged by a group of eastern state insurance departments, to examine a number of life insurance companies. After service as an actuary' and office manager for a life insurance company he joined the Institute of Life Insurance, remaining there as di­rector of statistics and research until 1947. 
Following service in the U. S. Na\'\' as a' communications officer he became a member of the faculty of the Amer­ican Institute of Banking. In that capacit)' he organized and taught a course in insurance for bank employes. 
He is a member of the Career Clinic sponsored by the Alumni Club of New York City and serves as a member of the American Pension Conference and the American Association for the Ad­vancement of Science. 
Crimmins to Indiana 
Bemie Crimmins, '42, backfield coach under Frank Leahy and former guard, fullback and right halfback has been signed to a 5-year contract as head football • coach at Indiana Uni­versity. 
The announcement was made as 
Crimmins attended the NCAA meet in 
Cincinnati. 
Leahy himself concurred in the 
choice with this statement: 
"I have known Bemie Crimmins for ten years, both as a player and a coach. It is my firm conviction there is not a young coach in the nation more emi­nently qualified to do a satisfactory job. He will do a great job for Indi­ana, both on and off the field. It will be a great combination." 
Crimmins spent three years in the Nav\' as a PT skipper and earned the Silver Star for gallantrj' in action. 

Daughter Born 
Hal Williams, '38, family page editor of the Baltimore Sun missed a deadline this month by 105 minutes. 
A daughter, Mary Helen was bom at 1:45 a.m., on Jan. 1, slightly late to get herself under the 1951 tax exemption on Hal's return to Uncle. "Most expensive New Year's Eve you could have," states Hal. 
Hal is the same Williams who in 1946 wrote a friend on the coaching staff, "There's a young high school quarterback here in Baltimore you might be interested in. He's my younger brother. Bob." 


Debate Schedule 
Participation in six major tourna­ments, involving most of the nation's leading collegiate debate teams, will highlight the Spring schedule of the University debaters. 
They will open the Suring compe­tition in Baltimore, Md., in the Johns Hopkins University debate tourney on February 1st and 2nd. Other February tourneys in which the Irish will partici­pate include the Boston University In­vitational on February' 15th and I6th, and the Azalia Tournament at Spring Hill College, Mobile, Ala. 
In March Coach Leonard Sommer and his team will participate on the 7th and 8th in the Brooklyn University Invitational Tournament, and on the 28th and 29th in the Georgetown Uni­versity tourney in Washington, D. C. Final major tournament on the Spring schedule for the Notre Dame debaters will be the National Tau Kappa Alpha Tournament to be held April 3rd, 4th and 5th at Case Institute in Cleve­land, Ohio. 
Representing Notre Dame in most of the six tournaments likely •will be Alfred C. DeCrane, Arts and Letters junior from Cleveland Heights, Ohio, and William J. Hank, Commerce sophomore from Chicago, III. 

At the Columbus, OWo Communion Breakfast: Joe Igoe, breakfast cbainnan: Bemk Crim­mins, Most Rev. Michael J. Ready, Bishop of Columbus, Joe Ryan, Ralph Gugliehni. 
Tokyo Alumni Club 
Father Morrie Powers, '33 and Joe Hickey, '50 have gathered together in Tokyo and are forming a Tokyo Alum­ni Club. 
Joe, last of the South Bend Hickeys, served a Mass of Father Morrie's, introduced himself and right then and there the club began. Father Powers is a lieutenant-Colonel in the Chaplain Corps, recently relieved as chaplain of the Seventh Infantry Division. Joe is a pvt., except when the club is meet­ing. 
Alumni in Tokyo, or going there are invited to make themselves known to Father Powers—telephone 2-5434 or 2-4924. Joe Hickey, being a private, has only one phone number—2-0827. All three phones are on the Tokyo ex­change. Joe's father, relayed this in­formation. 

Lawyers Average 83.8 
Law graduates of the University for June, '51 have set an 83.8 percentage in passing state bar examinations. 
Reports assembled by the University College of Law show that 57 of 68 graduates have passed state tests, with 18 still unreported. The list covers 17 state boards which have sent re­sults to the Law College. 
States reporting were: Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, New York, North Da­kota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Ver­mont, West Virginia and Wisconsin. 


Benefactor Dies at 82 
PETER C. REILLY 
Peter C. Reilly of Indianapolis, benefactor of the University and presi­dent of the Reilly Chemical and Tar Co., died Jan. 4 at the age of 82. 
Mr. Reilly gave the University $1,000,000 in 1945 and in 1939 was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws Degree for pioneer work in chemistry and for the development of new in­dustries. 
Funeral services were held Jan. 8 in Indianapolis. Attending for the University were Vice-Presidents: Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., and Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C. 

Mr. Reilly is sur\aved by his wife, Mrs. Ineva Reilly, and four children: Mrs. Ineva Frances Meyer, Peter C , Jr., Thomas Edward and George. 


Paging Bongol Boaters 
The 1932 Bengal Bouts are again in 

the planning stage. Ever since tbeir 
start in 1932, the Bengals have beciRne 
a bigger and more important part of 
the University calender. 
This year will be no exception. 

Weekly boxing smokers are being held 
as a means of giving the fighters more 
experience. These matches can also 
be used as an elimination tournament 
if that be necessary. 
The program to be given out at the 

finals will also be renovated. It is 
hoped that a larger one modeled on 
the football program will be put out 
this year. 
A new column in the program will 

be about former Bengal Bouters. 
Tracing former students back through 
the years will add a historical note to 
the whole affair. 
Aliunni who took part in either 

producing or fighting in the Bengals 
while they were in school are re­
quested to ivrite to The Bengal Bouts, 
P. O. Box 442, Notre Dame, Indiana by February 20 and tell what they have been doing since graduation and where they are living. If enough \\rrite in, separate colimins labelled 20 years, 10 years, etc., will be estab­lished. 
Yotir wholehearted cooperation in this project to make a part of the Bengal Bouts'better, thereby insiuing greater aid to the missions, is earnest­ly entreated. 
Law Editors Meet 
Editors of collegiate reviews from all parts of the United States will meet February 14, 15 and 16 at the Univer­sity for the Second National Confer­ence of Law Reviews. 
Purpose of the conference, which will draw editors from more than sixty-five universities, is to bring to­gether the editors of law reviews to discuss the problems of publishing and formulating legal thought in the Amer­ican judiciary. By coordination of publication methods it is believed that the review editors may better aid the judiciary, the professor and the prac­ticing attorney. 
The three-day Notre Dame session will be conducted on a seminar basis. Prominent members of the bar and bench, as well as professors of various 
Some of 30 boys from St. Joseph's Home board the Philadelphia Club's bus to the Navy law schools, also will address the con­game. Photo—Philadelphia Inquirer. ference. 
January-February, 1952 IS 
mittee is being formed to carry out the project. 
The Alumni-wives and the Buffalo Campus Club very successfully held a Christmas Dance in the Statler Hotel on December 28. The Chairmen for 
w^^^mmss







^mnmsmmm 
the Affair were as follows: General Chairman, Mrs. Frauds J. Cass; Tickets, Mrs. Donald W. 
;a:rc;s:iJAv~;?;»: 
Baltimore 
The Club Wives arc taking over management of details for the Club's production. ''Father of the Bride," a thespian effort starring Frankl>'n Hodireiter as the father. 
This Valentine's Day presentation will, the Club hopes, bring the Club Foundation fund up to pledge level, besides giving the Club and its friends another look at Hoch across stage light­ing. He was Captain Gallagher of Naval In­telligence last year. 
Here are all the particulars: THE DATE: Thunday, Feb. 14. 1952 THE TIME: 8:30 p.m. 
THE PLACE: Vagabond Arena Theater, Con­gress Hotel THE PLAY: "Father of the Bride" THE PRICE: 5;.80 THE CAUSE: Notre Dame Foundation Mrs. Frank J. Murphy, III is chainnan of tlie event. The .Ahmmus editors promised to run a picture of the Club's Family Communion Breakfast, if they could find the copper for the engraving. We'll hax'c to look and see if their mining pro­duced any paydirt. 

Boston 
Jack Moran again took his Boston Associates and Club members to a home game, this time the Iowa contest. About 100 made the trip. 
Annual Communion Sunday was observed Dec. 9 at St. Mary*s Church in West Quinc>-. at 8:30 
a.m. Masses and Communion were offered up as the Club's part In the spiritual bouquet to Father Cavanaugh. 
The Club*5 Annual Retreat Is planned for February, details ni a later issue. 
.And from the Club's Social Secretary-: Smiles at the Didc Hcriihy house, over a new baby girl, their first event; same for the John Alorans, over their fourth event, a girl; Alike Afanzo mentioned in the banns; Jim Dooley up after an illness; Club Treasurer John Vaughn no^v an El Paso resident; and the Jack Nye DufTeys and others still talking about LOBUND Bob Er\'in and his stopover. 


BuflFolo 
While the Club has lost its most wrtiten-about member through a transfer, Buffalo alumni are very proud of Bishop O'Hara's ele\-ation to the See of Philadelphia. 
The Bishop spoke at our Communion Break­fast De c 9 when all of us thought we'd have a Notre Dame Bishop with us for quite some time. Father Louis Thornton, C^.C , University- Direc­tor of Admissions, was in Buffalo for a few day's before the Bishop left for his new See and w-as heartily welcomed. 
Getting back to reporting Club btisiness, our Notre Dame Alum-Wives group is three years old now* and has 90 members. 
New president of this ladies' group is Mrs. Norman E. Wcitig, who took over Jan. I from Be\-erly Flanigan—Mrs. EdH-ard T. Flanigan. 
Other officers: Vice-Prendent, Mrs. George W. Ferrick Treasurer, Mrs. Frank X. Bennett, Jr. Recxirding Secretary, Mrs. Ralph Else CorreqioDding .Secretary, Mrs. John Battaglia. Directors, Mrs. Joseph F. Ryan, Mrs. Donald 
Seifert, Mn . Michael M. Sheedy, Jr., Mrs. George Youngblutfa. The ladies hold monthly meetings, every third 
Thursday at Hotel Westbrook. They cooked up a Christmas Dance for Dec. 27 and a cocktail party for Jan. 20. 
Cooperating with the campus Buffalo Club, tlie ladies- arranged the dance in the Niagara Room of the Sutler and did enviably well with it. The cocktail party will be held In the home of the Mike Sheedys, and a report will follow. 
No news in many a year could possibly have stirred the emotions of the Buffalo Club's mem­bership more than the news of the elevation of Bidiop John Francis O'Hara, CS.C , former 
President of our University, to Archbishop of 
Philadelphia. It was certainly with extreme 
pleasure that this announcement was received In 
all quarters. 
But once the surprise of this event had faded 
and the realization of the fact that such a stout 
and tireless supporter of our Club's interests 
would soon be offering his farewell, many a sad 
heart existed. A train of memories consisting of 
the many acti\ities for which he consistently 
offered his ardent support and advice passes be­
fore us. 
In particular, the Universal Notre Dame Com­munion and Breakfast where It had become tra­dition to have our Bishop talk so Informally to all ND families and friends after a private' Mass in the Blessed Sacrament Chapel and then to follow later to the Sheraton Hotel for breakfast and words from our guest speaker. The date on which this great news was made public blended In very* nicely with our current plans, for It preceded this year's Communion Breakfast date by barely a week, and undoubtedly this was the reason for so grand a response. 
CLASS AND CLUB SECRETARIES . . . 
Notes for the March-April 
issue of the ALUMNUS should 
reach the Alumnus office by Feb. 
15 to assure printing for that 
issue. 
An early publishing date is 
scheduled because of several fac­
tors — Universal Notre Dame 
Night (April 21), the June Class 
Reunions (June 6, 7, 8) and a 
planned Club Presidents' Coun­
cil. Exact date of the Club Council has not been set, pending action by the Alumni Board. 
As usual, Archblshop-EIect O'Hara delayed for a few minutes after his Mass on Sunday morning, Dec. 9, in the Chapel adjoining St. Joseph's New Cathedral. Shortly afterwards, the same large group \vzs very pleased when he appeared at the Sheraton, our Club's traditional mdezvous, and, after a brief delay to set up more tables to ac­commoda:e the unexpected number, breakfast was ser\'ed. 
Anthony W. Brick, Jr., Chairman of the Breakfast expressed his gratitude at so fine a turnout and promptly introduced the guest speaker of the morning, (who Incidentally a ­tended a summer session at the University) Father John V<^d, O.F.M., Principal of Bishop Timon High School Annex In the neighboring city of Lackawanna. 
After he accepted membership In our Club, he proceeded to speak on the Catholic Institution of ^fa^riage, a most timely subject on the vigil of the Immaculate Conception. Immediately after­wards, Maurice F. Qulnn, President of the Club, paid a very deserved tribute and fond farewell to our beloved Bishop. I'm certain that all present could not possibly escape the solenmity of the occasion. And as be rose to say a few Rnal words, our only thought w*as that a last chapter was being added to a wonderful succes­sion of events that we have been so fortunate to experience within the past five years. 
In conjunction with this most important event in Archbishop O'Hara's <:areer. Dr. Robert Bunu made the fine suggestion at our December meet­ing that the membership provide an Archbishop's Chalice af a token of the Club's ;q>precIation. The idea was Immediately approved and a Com­I/nv; Publicity, Mrs. John M. McKendry, Jr.; Decorations, Mrs. J. Frauds Hanssd; Reception, Mrs. Henry J< Balling; Telephone, Mn . Donald Colgiove. This organization's new President, Mrs. Normaii E. ^Victlg announced that the Winter Cocktail Party, the tliird annual affair, will be held at the residence of Michael M. Sheedy, Jr., with his wife, Rita, acting as hostess. 

The ND-Canlslus Basketball game scheduled to be played at the ^femorial Auditorium here In Buffalo will proWde the opportunity to entertain at our annual Luncheon at the Sheraton, such notables as "Mfiosc" Kransc and Johnny Jordan along with the traveling team-mates. This will take place on Jan. 26 and M^Uiam B, Lawless, Jr., has been appointed General Chairman for the event. He has formed his various committees as follows: John H. Doerr—Arrangements, Ji^m ^an—Finances, James F. Casey—Game Tickets, diaries J. Clauss—Luncheon tickets, Bernard J. Bird—^Welcome, Anthony C. Rocco—Publicity*. 

Chattanooga 
On Dec:. 29 we held a dinner-dance at the Fairyland Club on Lookout Mountain. Frank Ddaney, Jr., was chairman and believe it or not, there were 30 couples present. 
The AiumnI present were Fred Eichom, Frank Delaney, John Terrell, W. C. Casey, Jim Bu^ ­gart, Ed Dans, Tom Owen, and Tom Egan who with Mrs. Egan drove down from Knoxville to spend the evening wi.h us. 
Herb HaOe, Jr., was the only student there. Our other students Pat Crowe and Ray Sdner were recovering from minor operations. (In our day we had the medical work done at school so we would be fit for the holidays) 
The rest of the party was made up of our growing number of friends In this area. Our first 1931 event, a trip to New Orleans, showed only 20 alumni and friends. Universal Notre Dame Night brought 35 together and now our dinner>dance totals 60. We really had a great time and everyone semed happy with the party. We're certain this vnll be an annual event. 
£d. Note: The Chattanooga Club was active in another direction. For the 32nd annual St. Joe Valley Football Banquet In the University Dining Hall they sent to Frank Leahy the fol­loMong telegram: 
HAVE FOOD AND SUPPLIES FOR ONLY ONE MORE YEAR IN UNIVERSITY TENNES­SEE TERRITORY. MUST HAVE 1952 NA­TIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP OR CLOSE OUT­POST .ANT) RETURN. CONGRATULATIONS TO A GREAT COACH AND A GREAT TEAM. 

Chieogo 
This might well be c:alled the Review of the Year. Another club annum has rolled around. . . Bal Noel has -glittered and gone, the Annual Meeting, to be held on Jan. 30, draws near. Universal Notre Dame Night Is on the post-Lent horizon, and a new panel of officers will under­take their administrative biurdens. So .. . It behooves us to look back, while planning ahead. 
I^itting first things first, a resounding tribute is due President Al Stepan. Stepping In \v-hen Jobn Lacey was assigned overseas ai a colonel In the Air Force, AI filled the breach for what proved to be two eventfiU terms. New events were launched, and the traditional activities were undertaken with energy and enthusiasm. No one could ha^T given more to the duties of office than ha: AI; he leaves a high mark for his suc­cessors to aim at. 
Quoting Al himself, *'as fine a group of men as anyone could want" assisted him in carrying out the club functions. The praise was for com­mittee chairmen and officers, members of the board of governors, committee members, and In fact all who had a hand in club activities. Espe­cially remembered—not to the detriment of other fine woriten, but because the functions they con­ducted were notable—^are Jatk Glcason, chairman M the '51 Bal Noel, and Jolm O'Shaughacoy, bead of this year's sparkling party. 
As we go to press, everything points to the fact that this past Bal Noel was a sound finan­cial as well as social success. All who attended commented on the unforced atmosphere of pleas­ant and Christian festivity evident: Drake hotel officials volunteered the high tribute that the dance was like, a "fine family party." Again, cheers for chairman O'Shaughnessy and hb helpers. 
The annual Communion Breakfast, conducted by John Clailc, w*as held Dec. 9, and proved an uplifting occasion for all who attended. 
The Football Smoker was changed into a foot­ball dance when Chairman Bob Eder waved his magic wand not too long before the date, Oc:. 

11. Despite the comparatively short notice, a gratifying number of couples turned out. 
A new project, headed up by John Coyle, the Alumni ' Reception for freshmen and fathers, was held on Sept. 5, and $cr\'ed in memorable fashion to introduce Notre Dame newcomers and dads to the ND "family." 
The Golf Outing, chairmaned by Dan Gibbs, was again a great opportunity for strictly indoor as well as outdoor sportsmen to get together, swap link-lie5 and other stories, and enj'oy a fine evening. 
Club members are now looking forward to the traditional Annual Meeting, being conducted this year by Jim Gallagher, who will put aside his worries about a certain ball club wriggle>'ing out of the National League underground and do his usual outstanding job of perfecting details for a wonderful get-together. 
Then on April 30 Mark Mitchell will present Universal Notre Dame Night . . . and a new Chicago club "team" will run out on the field to direct the events of *52. 
In closing. President Stcpan offers his thanks to all who helped make these years successful . . . and all hands wish heartfelt success to the ncw club officers. 

Cleveland 
Executive Vice-President Father Theodore M. Hesburgfa, C.S.C., spoke at the Chib*s Annual Communion Breakfast Dec. 9 at Hotel Allerton, giving the members an up-to-date picture of cur­rent activities at the University and plans for the future. 
Ray T. Miller was general chairman and reser­vation co-chairmen were Rodge Brennan and Tom Bremer. 

Columbus 
Most Rev. Michael J. Ready, Bishop of Colum­bus, celebrated the Mass for the Club's obser\'­ance of Universal Communion Sunday, in the Cathedral and delivered an excellent sermon on Xotre Dame. 
Following the Mass we had a breakfast in the main ballroom of the Fort Hayes Hotel, attended by the largest crowd ^ve ever had. Bcmie Crim­mins gave a wonderful talk. Sons of both guests and members were invited and a large number of high school and grade school boys were there. 
They were highly interested in Bemie's talk and they all enjoyed meeting and talking with Ralph Guglielmi. We were very happy that he was able to make the trip with Bernie and to attend the breakfast. He made a notable im­pression. 
We were also very fortunate in having as a guest at the breakfast Vincent Vf. Hartnett, *37, of New York City, who was in Columbus to give a lecture at St. Mary*s of the Springs on the Erskine Series Lectures Sunday evening. He gave a very interesting talk on communist infil­tration into radio and television. 

Denver 
The Denver Notre Dame Club was un hand to cheer for their Alma Mater Saturday Dec. 1, ivhen the Notre Dame Southern California Foot­ball game was televised at Mammoth Gardens. 
Approximately 6Q loyal sons of Notre Dame attended a prcgame luncheon at the Leyden Chiles-Wickersham American Legion post No. 1. Approximately 125 Notre Damers attended the football telecast. 
The special television showing ^vas made pos­sible through the efforts of Frank L. Bishop, Director, Radio Station KFEL Denver, Gene O'FalloD, Sr., station manager. Gene 0*FalIon, Jr., '44, and Thomas J. Morrissey, chief engineer. 
Radio Station KFEL picked up the teln-ision 

Maurice Quinn, Buffalo Club President and Jim Mimay of Bataiia^ N. Y. wiA AxA' bishop John F. O'Hara at the Buffalo Ghib's GommuHMMi Breakfast Dec 9 in St. Joseph. CathcdraL—Courier-Express Photo. 
from the transcontinental cable and "piped" it 
to Mammoth Gardens via micro wave relay from 
the Telephone C&mpany Building. 
The Committee for the pregame luncheon and football telecast consisted of Bob Flyna, Club President, Tom Cuirigan, Frank Kirdmian, Jim Hanlon and Tom Gargan, chib secretary. 

Detroit 
Saturday, Dec. 29, 1951, was a gold star on the calendar of events for the Notre Dame Club of Detroit Alumni. On the evening of the 29th, the most successful Christmas Dance, both so­cially and financially, was held in the beautiful new and modem Veterans Memorial Building on the banks of the Detroit River. 
The dance, originally planned for 200 or 250 season celcbrators, was attended by over 400 alumni and students. INfost of the credit for this wonderful record attendance for the dance must be given to the splendid cooperation and support of the Detroitcrs on Notre Dame*s campus. Campus representation was 100 per cent and they all brought friends to join the fun. 
The main ballroom was decorated in superb holiday colors. Outstand^ig was a dazzling twenty-four Foot Christmas tree complemented by six red and white trees surrounding the band's platform. Soft red, blue, green and gold lighting was furnished by indirect lighting on two walls with a huge modern dome light glowing over the stage. 
Door prizes of five bottles of "refreshments" \yere raffled off by James KfotschaU, the president of the Detroit alumni, and Boh Wink, co<:hair­man of the dance. 
Much credit must be given to Jim Motsdall who printed and sent out over 600 invitations to the alumni and friends of the University. Jim gave much of his time and many of his ideas to make the dance the success it was. Jim was assisted by Air. Wink, his co-chairman. 

Fort Wayne 
Our annual Christmas party for the orphans at St. Vincent Villa on Dec. 27 turned out to be most successful. Frank "Rod" Johnson %va3 in charge. 
Some of the other Clubs might be interested in the project, so weUl try to give an Idea of the different aspects of the party. We. qifKitat 
the cfaaixman well in advance so lie can select 
his own cc»nmittec members and work out de­
tails with them. 
The committee members contact local merdiants 
for donations of toys, fruit, candy, etc 
We have learned the hard way that se'ertlon of the date is extremely important. We have found that by holding the party shortly alter Christmas, instead of just before, the merchants are more receptive toward the idea of making donations. 
In this way we've been able to round up a great many more gifts for the children. In addition, there are many pre-Christmas actn-ities for the orphans and they seem to really enjoy a party after Christmas, 
We start the program by showing movies, usu* ally cartoons, sports reels, short features, etc Then Santa Claus (traditionally. our own Ed Wesner) arrives and goes through She Santa Claus routine. Club members assemble on the st^e to he^ him distribute the sifts. 
Usually the outstanding basketball player, and the outstanding foodull player at the orphanage receive a special gift ^lece. Still in tradition, the football player gets a ball — what else but a football? — autogr^hed by the team — what else but THE team? and the basketfudl player gets a basketball autogr^ihed by the Rochester Royals and the local Zollner Pistons. 
The program is concluded with groiq> sxngii^ of Christmas carols and serving of refreshments. This is strictly a party tot the orphans and Qnb matters or business are never brought up. 
"Rod" Johnson picked hmlself a lineup which deserves a blow for the work they did, and the Unetq> follows: 
Bin Bccfc, Paul Dewald, Koy Gri r, Jr., Ed Hocky BciMse KeaiBS, Jolm Logaa, Bezaie ^nacTy Bob 0*RctIir, and Faal Sagstettcr. 

Fox Volloy 
The Club board of directors met recently with Alumni Secretary Ji a Axmttnmg and mapped out the 1932 activities. Highlights: 
THE CHRISTJfAS DANCE 

A terrific success last year, it was held again in the ^ipleton Elks' Club on De c 28, and area students (amd their dates) were guests. Dress was opticmal, and dinner was' served before the 
January-February, 1952 
dance. Pat CougUin was arrangements chairman. UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT We'll have a stag dinner, and a campus speak­er. Public Infonna:ion Director Ray Donoi-an came up last year, and gave an inspiring and informative talk. Chairman this year is Tom Frawlej*, assisted by George CHfTord and Karl Langlois. ANNUAL SUMMER PICNIC To be chairmanned by a newcomer, Jim Sid­dnll. Fred Heinritz, last year's chairman, will give Jim an assist. Date is still not available. 


Grand Rapids 
Father John H. Murphy, C.S.C., University 

Vice-President for Public Relations, spoke at the 
Club Breakfast on Universal Communion Sunday, 
in the auditorium of St. James* Parish, Grand 
Rapids. 
TIic Mass was celebrated by Father Speer Stra­

han. Club Chaplain and former faculty member 
at tlic University. Father Strahan is pastor of 
St. Mar\''s Church at Cascade, Midi. 
Kentucicy 
December was a tragic month for the club. 

Maurice A. Fcldman died on the I3ili: Bcrnie Blocmer, brother of Kentucky Foundation gov­ernor Frank died on the I7th and Robert T. Burke, Sr., father of Bob Burke, Jr., died three da\*s before Christmas. Members of the Club, besides attending the funerals, gathered for reci­tation of the Rosar>' for the deceased members. SjTnpathy and prayers were offered especially to the Bloemer family. Frank Bloemer, Sr., had died last August. 
.Annual Communion Breakfast was held for members and their families Dec. 9 at St. Mar\-Magdalenc Church and approximately 50 attended. 
Unfinished business at the last Club meeting included the formal tendering of congratulation: to president Pierre Angcrmier—on the arrival Nov. 5 of a new son, Donald Hcnrv-. 
For the arrival of the basketball team and its game against Louis\'ilIe U. the Club sent a dele­gation of welcome, including Pierre Angcrmcicr, Frank Blocmer and Roger Hutcr. The team arrived Friday afternoon and stayed at* the Knights of Columbus Hall. Saturday morning the team and Club members attended ^fass and Communion in the Cathedral and in tlie after­noon the team "saw the town." 
Between halves at the game Beniie Crimmlas, 

a native of our tou-n, presented Mrs. B3ly 
Bosler, widow of the Club's founder, a plaque 
on behalf of the Club. Her late husband orig­
inated the football trips which arc now an an­
nual feature of the Club's actixities. 
Climax of the weekend was a dance in the 

grand ballroom of Hcnrv* Clay Hotel, attended 
by approximately 450. 


Miami 
Effective Jan. 1 the Greater Miami Alumni 

Club got a quartet of new officers, although 
Fred Jones is a repeater as secretary'. The 
lineup: 
Jerome P. Holland, '30, President 
Fred J. Piowaty, '37, First Veep 
Edward A. Kdly, '45, Second \^cep 
Fred A. Jones, Secretary-Treasurer 
The election w*as held in November, at the 

regular Club meeting in the Smith Brothers 
Restaurant. In keeping with polic>' recommended 
by tlie Alumni Board, these officers will serve 
for two years, 1952 and 1953. They will be 
formally installed Jan. 31. 
Officers completing their term of office arc 

Paris N. Cowart, President; Mike Zoro\ich, First 
\'ecp; and Hugh Mc&fanigal, Second Veep. 
Of equal and great importance was notification from the University of the reappointment by University President Father John Cavanaugh of Walter D. Rowlands to the position of Chairman of the Dade County Foundation Committee. Cowart was appointed by the office to the posi­tion of assistant chairman. Rowlands has been the choice for this vital and important office since its origin in this area, approximately fi\-e years ago. He will notify committee members of their appointment from the local Foundation Office. 
The last football party of the season was held Dec. 1 at the home of Paris and Mi^inia Cotvait. Those in attendance enjoyed themselves to a sub­stantial degree. They were Ro and Don Smitli, Mar>' and Herbert Nadeau, Wade and Mary Noda, Olga and Johnny Phillips, Carmen and Skippy Snay, Mar>- and Mitchdl Sirgany, Mn . George Cour>-, Mary and Jerr)* Holland, Laddie and Freddie Howaty, Mrs. Lillian Gapinski, Louise and Freddie Jones, I. I. Probst, Dorothy and Geoi^e Brauttgam, F. F. CoH-art, Ruth and Charles Chaplin, Patricia and Ann Cowart, twin daughters of the hosts. 
A most successful Christmas-Netv* Years In-Between Party was held Dec. 27 at the Colony 
Front and center at the Fort Wayne Club's Orphan Party Dec 27: Jim McCarron, Doc Hoffner, Bill Beck, Paul Sogstetler and Tyke Hartman busy distributing presents. 
Restaurant. John Fenn and Fred Piowaty re­ported about 60 in attendance, and they deser\-e congratulations for their work. 
President-elect Jerry HoUand served as Santa Glaus and had three elves as helpers: Freddie Jooei, Mike ZcHrox-ich and Fred FSowaty. Ever>-­one was in complete agreement that there Avas not the slightest resemblance between these three Micks and the originals. 
A knotty legal problem became the highlight of the affair when George Brautigam discovered that Kon-aty had been duped into alternate choices of ham or turkey for the menu. In his best form George convinced the management they should permit club members and guests to order from the menu, but this was accomplished only aftet George put Piowaty on the witness stand. 
Probably the best-attended Universal Com­munion observance was this yearns, held Dec. 9 at St. Patrick's Church. Breakfast was at the El ^forrocco Hotel on Miami Beach. Monugnor Barry, an honorary* alumnus, gave an interesting^ dissertation on Notre Dame tradition. It is needless to state that the Monsignor is a most interesting speaker and that his talk w*as im­mensely enjoyed by everyone. 
The principal speaker at the breakfast was 

F. X. James O'Brien. In case anyone wonders, the FX means Francis Xavier. Jimmy spoke only too briefly on Japanese conditions as they became a part of his knox^ledge when 5er\'tng there recently for the government. 
Ed Kelly is formulating plans for the Spring picnic, an event voted by the club last year when members decided a summer picnic just wasn't enough of a blowout to last them for a whole year. Kelly states that it is his intention to prepare all plans in secret, under a 2-watt bulb in a dark cellar, and then notify members of the program. Kelly is learning fast. 

Nebraska 
Omaha's Fontelle Hotel was the scene of the Club's Christmas Dance on Dec. 27. 
The Campus Nebraska Club, with campus president Larry McKim in charge of ticket sales, collaborated with the Alumni Club to make the event a genuine success. 
Herb Sampson, Jr., was general chairman. Bob Fattenon handled publicity and Gerry Kelly and Tom Emery did a one-two on the decorations. The committee also included John Waditer, Dan O'Brien, Doyle Holland, John Gill and Ted Halpine. 

New York 
A recap of the activities of the past Fall, and through December might be in order for the benefit of those not participating and New York members li\ing out of town. 
The "Kick-OfT' meeting in September brought about Jack Lavellc as master of ceremonies . . . and that was that! Meeting a success! Not only was Jack his amiable, genial and witty self, but he made Professor Richard Sullivan, '30, right at home when we helped launch the Prof's new book "Notre Dame" which was due out officially the next day. 
(Secretary* note: if you haven't as yet obtained a copy of the book then you're missing some­thing. The club still has a supply and at a reduced rate to members and friends). 
Last word was that Prof's hand, after signing hundreds of copies that night, was out of the cast and ready to operate again. Notre Dame has a wonderful *ad\-ance agent' in Professor Sul­livan and we were proud to be able to bring him on for the meeting. Other alumni clubs have out guarantee of a terrific guest speaker if he's available between duties on campus and writing. 
About the only regret we had on this particular night was the fact that Dean "Pat" Manion, al­though imtied, couldn't be on tap. Pat was here in town, but was closeted with the Amer­ican Bar Association Committee on Communism. He did a great job where it was most needed. We'll take a rain check for your next visit, Pat! 
Sept. 20 at the Biltmore was the day of the Third annual hmcheon of the Notre Dame Law Association and was held in conjunction with the proceedings of the American Bar Association Con­vention. The Association was honored by the presence of His Eminence, Francis Cardinal Spellman. 
The Biltmore was again the scene of our Octo-
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ber meeting and the Fall really started to roll. Our good friends the Maryknoll Missions get the biggest bouquet in this case as we were extremely fortunate in having as our guest speaker. Father George Gilltgan, M.M., who , returned shortly before the meeting to New York after 20 years of missionary work and five months solitary confine­ment in China. (After the meeting we received a complaint from the Biltmore: quote No more guest speakers like that. We lost money because even the waiters stopped serving and stood en­thralled at Father's hour long talk . . . unquote.) 
Anyone interested in securing a speaker who can really give the inside info on how the Chinese Communists conduct a Kangaroo court can get in touch with Father Gilligan through the nearest Mar^'knoll Mission. Notre Dame Club of New York Guarantee: *^at least an hour of tremendous insight to the inner workings of the Asiatic mind'* . . . State Department papers please copy. 
The October meeting also brought about the termination of the Fall drive of the Trust Fund Scholarship Committee .. . at least temporary termination, if there is such a thing in the eyes of Bob Hamilton the Chairman. Bob and his crew awarded 10 pairs of Navy tickets, each with a round trip railroad ticket to Baltimore and return. 
For the Committee's cfTorts they accumulated approximately $1400. Large you say? Maybe . . . but not in proportion to what the funds arc used for and the tremendous effort put into it all by Bob and the committee. Fair suggestion for their next announcement! 
Tierney 0*Rourkc and Al Perrine played Pied Pipers for the Navy Game to Baltimore, and for the details involved in transporting the 376 who finally made the trip, they might have been called the Pye-cyed Pipers. (Note to Moose Kiause: please book a game in New York .. . Pulse Subnormal . . . I.O.U. . . . anybody .. . even Gimbcl's Shipping Dcpt. But do it! O'Rourke and Perrine resolve that this was their 

. last.). The trip itself took the place of the November monthly meeting at the Biltmore and a worthwhile trip it was . . . the travelers all agreed to this and the Treasurer says we showed a profit . . . period. 
Gng Rice ran (no pun) our Annual Com­munion Breakfast on December 9 at St. Patrick's Cathedral and the Biltmore. From what we all remember, Greg never did chase anyone .. . he always led . . . and he led approximately 330 alumni and friends on this day. Dr. Waldcmar Gurian, editor of the *'Revie\v of Politics" and Professor of Political Science honored us with a brief glimpse of the value and quality of the "Review" and urged its subscription to those who seek the better articles on international and national politics. 
Always a good friend of Notre Dame, famous sportswriter and now Foreign Correspondent for I.N.S., Bob Considine graced the dais with his wisdom and numerous stories. This is the first time 1 believe we've had Bob speak . . . but we hope it's by no means the last. Our furthei thanks to Greg for inviting Father Charles Fur­nis, S.J., Father Joe English, C.S.C., '37, and '"Uncle Jim" Harkins. 
The December meeting brought back a famous son and a friend. The son in the form of Jimmie Phelan, *16, nationally famous football coach and present coach of the New York Yanks . . . and the friend .. . a fellow ^vho Ave were glad to see in a light sports jacket and hand­some tie rather than the pads and cleats . . . Kyle Rote. Jim gave us a few highlights of his many many travels in the football world and brought back a flock of memories to the 200 at the meeting .. . so did Rote. Kyle said he hoped he could explain tlie feeling of tlie people in the Southwest area and particularly at SMU with respect to their desire to continue our rela­tions on the field . . . and we agreed mutually . . . only on the ground. 
Plans for the new year? That's up to the member! and the new Oificers we elect on Jan. 22 at the Biltmore . . . and also copy for the next issue. 
AI Penine, Secretary, 

Wiuskeis Wesner, Fort Wayne's Santa Claus, was master of the bird-giving cere­mony at the club's party for St. Vincent's Villa orphans. Below, in order, Bill Beck, Rod Johnson and Tom O'Reilly. 


Northern California 
Sunday, Dec. 9, I95I, alumni of the University of Xotre Dame joined together for their annual Communion Breakfast. In order to give all of the alumni an opportunity to attend, and enjoy the company of their Notre Datne friends, the club had three Communion Breakfasts, one in each of the three geographical areas of the club, San Trancisco, the East Bay and the Peninsula. 
SAX FRANCISCO M.ASS—8:00 o'clock at St. Thomas More 
Church, Juniperra Serra Blvd. and Stanley Drive. BRE.AKFAST—Immediately following Mass. CH.AIRMAN—Don Allen. 
EAST BAY M.ASS—8:00 o'clock in St. Anthony's Church, 16th .Ave. and 15th St., Oakland. BREAKFAST—Immediately following Mass at the Athens Club at 17th and Clay, Oakland. CHAIRilAN—George Thomas. PENINSULA MASS—8:00 o'clock at St. .Ann's Chapel (Stan­ford New-man Club) 1247 Cowpcr, Palo Alto. 
BREAKFAST—Immediately following Mass at Marie .Antoinette's at 1040 Noel Drive, Menlo Park. 
CH.AIRMEN—Bob Tar»-er, Don Miller. 

Okioiioma City 
New officers for the Oklahoma City Club, 
elected at a business meeting Nov. 10: Bob McFarland, '42, President Jim Burke, V '30, Vice-Presdent Ed Kavanan^, '38, Secretary Jim Dolan, '45, Treasurer 
Members and their wives attended a social meeting on Nov. 4, at the home of the McFar­lands. Present were John Martin, Elmer True-blood. Bob Berry, Ed Kavanaugh, Bill Lomasney, Jerry Donovan, Lcs Qaric, Rod Janeway, Charlie, 
A. B. and Bob McFailaod, Hayes Simpson, Dick Hoff, Haskell Askew and Al Dreschcr. 
You'll be hearing more and more from this club, especially as the date for the Oklahoma U. 


Oregon 
Bill ScJmiitt, '10, played host in absentia to a dozen Notre Dame club members and friends for the annual USC-ND football game radio party on Dec. 1, when tliey gathered in his suite of offices at the Schmitt Steel company in Portland to listen to the deeds of Worden, GugHelmi et al against the Trojans. Leading cheers was Dom Callicrate, '08, who was ND grid captain back in '07. Bob Frantz, '45, was party chairman. 
Host Schmitt was dou'n in Los Angeles for the game, stayed afterward through the holidays to visit his aged mother. Also in the stands during the game was Charlie Slatt, - '33, >v'ho somehow* or other arranged a business trip so it coincided with game time. 
Just out of service in the Na w and back living in Portland is Neil H. Running, law, '51. He and Mrs. R. arc living at 3424 SW Veterans road. 
On the sick list currently arc Norb Ka\-anaugh, '26, confined to his home most of the time, and Charles J. Hirschbubl, '22, who spent a month in the hospital and is now home, where doctors have sentenced him to several months of "prac­tically absolute quiet"—disturbed only by Charlie's omnivorous gulping of detective stories. 
John W. Noonan, '47, transferred to tlie Port­land zone office of Pontiac Motor company just long enough for a feu* fellow alumni to make his acquaintance, has been transferred again. Pontiac orders sent him on to the Denver, Colo., zone headquarters. 
Notre Dame Communion Sunday was moved to De c 16 by common consent of club members. Father Michael J. Eariy, C.S.C., '17, was host to a sizeable group of members and wives for Mass at Columbia Preparatory* scliool and tlic breakfast following in the school cafeteria. 

Oregon Club President Oscar Quoidbach, '4S. has named a brother combination to head up planning for next April's Universal Notre Dame Night banquet and meeting—J. Thomas Trixler, '47, and Peter Trixler, '48. 
The Peter Trixlers, incidentally, now have almost a full house—Mr. and Mrs. T. became 

Fort Wayne Club's Football Party, at St Patrick's Lyceum; Left to right, Roy Grimmer, Jr., Club President; Ed Wesner, Guests John Friess and Acy Chandler, Al Younghaus. 
parents of twin girls on Nov. 10. Names: Anne Rosalie and Agnes Marie. 
The 1952 schedule has been tentatively set, with the following events: in February, a get-together party at St. Mark's School, Huber, Ore., for boys; April 21, Universal Notre Dame Night, Portland, and in June, our Annual retreat. 
New out our way—Fathers Botzum, Boyle, Lombardo, McDona^, Miltner, Murphy, O'Brien and Powers, all at U. of Portland; Fathers O'Ndll, Wohlman, Zink at Columbia Prep . . . all Notre Dame grads. 


Philadelphia 

The biggest and best event of the season was the Club's second "Fighting Irish Special" to Baltimore for the Navy game. Over 1100 local friends of ND made the trip in a 14-car special train. President Joe Cattic was the big wheel, making all arrangements and handling every detail. 
Joe's tact in handling thousands of requests, his perseverance in obtaining sufficient tickets, and his great concern for the filling of the Club's coffers were matched only by his H-isdom in at­taching two bar cars to the special train. 
Big feature of the day was Club acting as host for 50 youngsters from St. Joseph's Home. The boys made the trip in a special bus, and alumni underwrote all expenses. We expect to make this a regular part of our activities. 
The annual raffle was headed by Jack Dcmpscy and John Mooriiead, and did its bit towards replenishing the treasury. 
Next item on the calendar was the annual Communion Breakfast, held De c 9 at the Adel> phia Hotel, following Afass at St. John's Church. It was once again under the able chairmanship of Bud Dudley. One very noteworthy feature of tlie Breakfast is that the most valuable players of each of the eight teams in the Catholic High School League, together with their coaches and athletic directors, are our guests. 
During the proceedings, these lads vote among themselves for the athlete present whom they consider to be most valuable. To the winner goes a gold watch and to his school goes pos­session for one year of the **Notre Dame Club Trophy," a beautiful five-foot silver cup. The other boys get plaques wth tlie Notre Dame seal and their own names inscribed thereon. Mr. £d Pollock, Sports Editor of the Philadelphia Eve­ning Bulletin was toastmaster. .. . , 
In spite of all of the current activity, every alumnus in these parts is looking forward to the week-end of Sept. 27, 1952, when Notre Dame makes its first appearance at Franklin Field since 1930. That, you can be assured, will be a week­end to end all weekends. The local alumni have already dubbed it "Cattie's Colossal Carnival." Let's go, Joe! 

Pittsburgh 
Four Club acti\'ities to report this time: 
The Annual Universal Communion Breakfast, 

Dec. 9, in Sacred Heart Church. (Guests were 
Rev. Ccdeman F. Carroll and Rev. Joseph M. 
Hannon.) 
The Christmas Dance, Dec. 28. 
The Annual Club Retreat, Jan. 5-6. 
The Club's gift of ?I00.00 to St. Paul's Orphan 

Asyhim. 
The 1951 Universal Communion Sunday was held on Dec. 9 at Sacred Heart Church. This Notre Dame tradition is so well-known and popu­lar, that it was surprising so few attended what would have been one of the best events of the year, provided at least 60 had been in attend­ance. However, the 35 or 40 who did show up were certainly received in a gradous manner at Sacred Heart, where a delicious breakfast %\'as served following Afass. Rev. Coleman F. Carroll, pastor, was the host and c:hief speaker. 
His address on Catholic laymen keeping up with the facts in important Catholic news events was very apropos, in view of the recent furor created by the tentative appointment of Gencial Mark Clark. A conducted tour through the newest school buildings at Sacred Heart folluwrd the breakfast, and was enjoyed by all. 
An opportunity to see a great Catholic Church, and the very latest in school facilities, all of which have been in the process of building for 25 years, should not be passed up by Catliolic ahimni of any University. It is hoped that this event will be continued at Sacri:d Heart pe­riodically. . 
A gift of $100.00 was presented to St. Paul's Orphanage at the breakfast, and thankfully ack­nowledged later by Rev. Joseph Hannon, superin­tendent, who could not be present at the time. 
Vlnce Burke and Emmet Griffin handled the details of this Universal Communion Sunday, and all members wish to thank :h:m for their effort. 
Bob Fulton 


Rock River Valley 
A meeting was held in December which was attended by James W. Frick of the University who spoke to the members in regard to the Foundation fund. His remarks were of intercs: to all the members. He brought several films with him, including the highlights of the 1950 football games, which Dr. DaWd Murphy dis­played w*ith his film equipment. 
Incidentally, Dr. Murphy has seven children trained in the operation of motion-picture pro­jectors and equipment so that any clubs through­out the countr)- who are in need of assistance of this kind may feel free to contact Dave. 
Noticeably absent from the meeting ^^'ith no 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 

apparent excuse was Jchn Cahill. Noticeably present was Mr. Condon of Rockford^ who as­sured Mr. Frick of 100% participation in the 
. Foundation fund. Without hesitation Joe Bittorf of Sterling reminded Mr. Condon of his infre­quent attendance at club functions. 
All of the club members observed Universal Communion Sunday in their respective cities. In DLxon, the members attended Mass and Com­munion as a group at St. Anne's Parish. 
Father Ronald Frencli, pastor, prefaced his sermon with kind words of praise for the example Notre Dame men set for others. Following MasSf the members attended breakfast at the home of Gerald Jones, President of the club, where the delicious breakfast was excellently pre­pared and served by Mn. Gerald Jones and Airs. Sherwood Dixon. 
A general discussion followed the breakfast and Paul Fry who has been the "sparkplug" of the club for the past few years and who originated our annual scholarship donation of $1,000.00 to the University for some deserving student from the fJubs area presented the problem of raising additional funds. Plans were made to request the Rockford members to promote some function in their city with the hope that both funds and more club interest might result from their co­operation and efforts. 


South Jersey 
First Annual Communion Breakfast of the Club 
was held Sunday, Dec. 9. The Mass was cele­
brated in Cathedral of the Immaculate Concep­
tion. Breakfast followed in the Calico Ktichen, 
63S S. Market St. 
Tom Hessert handled re5er\*ations and we had 
a good attendance. 
President Jack Murphy follows several r<ig­gestions from club members in calling the Janu­ary meeting at the home of a club member to make it easier for more distant members to attend. This time. Bill McCoimick, at 701 Wick Road, Woodbury hosts the group, on Jan. 10. 
It's the first time a meeting has been held outside Camden. It's also the last meeting be­fore final plans are made for the Afardi Gras party in February, 

Spokane 
The Alumni group here enjoyed a very pleasant evening at an open house held in the home of Mr. and Mrs. John P. CNeU. '29. 
Dr. and Mrs. Norbert C. Trauba, adopted members of the Club were special guests of the O'Neils. Other guests were: 
Mr. and Mrs, Armando Albo, Mr. and Airs. 
E. J. Bethke, Mr. and Mrs. H. J, Brosbnahan, Jim Duican, Frank and Mrs. Herron, Bill and Mrs. Horn, Jim and Mrs. Lynch, Rabbi and Mrs, Flotkin, Mr. and Mrs, C. B. Prescott, and Mr. and Mrs. V. P. Slatt, 
We've brought the Chib Directory up to date and are presently haWng copies made for each member. 

Tulsa 
The club is currently trying for two separate scholarship funds, to send deserving students to the University. A fuller report will be fonvarded for the next Alumnus issue. 
New activity of the club is radio sponsorship 
of the Rosary Hour, five days each week. The 
presentation is over Radio Station KAKC, Tulsa. 
A welcome visitor ^vas Richard Sullivan, the 
author of "Notre Dame," who gave a most in­
teresting talk on the present aims and develop­
ment of the University. 

Washington, D. C. 
Tliis is not a year-end report, but there have been some club activities since the Naxy Game rally last fall. 
Our weekly Tuesday luncheons continue with an attendance of between 15 and 25 each week. Once a month we have a prominent speaker; In October wc had Harry Stuhldreher, and in No­vember we had a fine talk from Father Cav­anaugh. 
On Dec. 9 we had our Annual Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday with a Mass at Holy Cross Foreign Mission Seminary and breakfa^it fo[ about 80 men. The Afass was celebrated by our Club Chaplain Father Vincent McCauIey, C.S.C,. Superior of the seminary. 
Major-General. Kirk B. Lawton, Deputy Chief Signal OfHcer of the U. S. Army .ind one o! the finest Catholic general officers in the Army, was principal speaker. Don Kennedy, '21, was chair-
That same week our nominating commiitecs got to work to line up candidates for club ofiSces and for the ' board of governors. Th: election will be held the early part of March, when printed ballots have been mailed to the club membership. 
Dec. 23, in the Banquet Room of the Carlton Hotel the young 'uns had their Christmas patty, with cookies, punch, presents and, of course, Santa Claus. Betty Alaloney (Mrs. Phil) and Clara Doyle (Mrs. Vince) handled the ladies' part of the affair admirably. Pres. Paul Tally's classmate, Pat Gorman, '39, wore the red suit. Mrs. Tully and Mrs. George Green completed the committee. 
Dec. 28, in the same hotel, about 50 students and their dates were club guests at the Christ­mas Dance. Don Stocking was chairman, assisted by Frank Cacdpaglia, Bob Shellenberg, Bill Gor­man and Bf>b Weber. 

Honors For Gabby 
Further honors for Col. Frauds S. Gabreski came this month as the U.S. Junior Chamber of Conunerce named him as one of the ten Outstanding-Young Men of the Nation in 1951. 
Gabreski, at 32 a full colonel in the Air Force is presently in Korea where he recently attained "ace" status ia shooting down Red jets. His citation by the Junior Chamber of Commerce^ succinct but eloquent, reads: 
COL. FRANCIS S. GABRESKI, 32, Deputy Commander, Fourth Fight­er Fifth Air Force in Korea. 
Biographical Data: Col. Gabreski has been called one of the greatest fly­ing aces in history. He enlisted in the Air Force in 1940 when his parents* native Poland was attacked by Nazis. He was stationed at Pearl Harbor during the Japanese attack in 1941. 
Later he was transferred to England. 
On July 20, 1944 he was shot down ovei: Germany and held prisoner of war for ten months. Following his release from prison he volunteered for service in the Pacific theater until the close of hostilities. During his ten months of service overseas he completed 166 air missions and flew a total of more than 400 combat hours. 
Later he served as assistant to the vice-president of Douglas Aircraft and as chief of lighter test section at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Day­ton, O. , His present post of deputy commander of the Fourth Fighter Wing, Fifth Air Force, Korea, is a strategic one. 
Santa Claus in Washington.  Paul Tally's three youngsters, Don,lC, Thomas, 4 ^ and Diane, 3. Center, the entire acowd.  R^ ^  
Caroline Mary and Kathleen Ann Curran.  The whiskers are on Pat Gorman, '40.—Finnigan Photos.  
January-February, 1952  21  

1918 
George E. Harbcrt, Secrctan­
lOe N. Main St. 
Sycamore, Illinois 
Harry M., Brady, the Squire of Payne, Ohio, would be liappy indeed to welcome any of his classmates who are in that \-icinily. l^arrj* finds real estate a very profitable investment and tells xis that looking after his farms and other real estate holdings occupies all of his time. Maybe Harr>- can give us a tip on how to get the farms to look after. 
Paul F, Swift, M.E. M8, is witli the Engi­neering Division of the Monsanto Chemical Com­pany. Paul w'zs In the United States Na\y dur­ing the first war and had two sons in the 5er\-ice in World War II. His youngest is no^v in the Air Force. His oldest girl is a Sister of Xotrc Dame. Paul has nine grandchildren and there is no doubt from his letter that he and his good wife are doing their best to spoil all nine of them. PauFs address is 1115 Old Orchard Avenue, Dayton 5, Ohio. 
Father Charies J. \ViIliams, Litt.B., 'IB, is now the pastor of St. ^falachy's at Rantoul and he and your Secretary had the privilege of at­tending the investiture of .Archbishop John F. O'Hara as the Archbishop of Philadelphia. The prayers for Charlie's complete recover^-. 



30 YEAR 
REUNION 


JUNE 6-7-8 
Mr. Gerald A. Ashe, Secretary 
39 CanbridKe Street 
Rodiester 7, New York 
We of *22 are highly pleased to render our 
congratulations and best wishes to The Most 
Reverend John Francis O'Hara, C.S.C., former 
president of our university, who was installed 
as Archbishop of Philadelphia on Jan. 9. Dur­
ing our undergraduate days, we knew and loved 
Father 0*Hara as Prefect of Religion, and Dean 
of the College of Commerce. 
The Christmas mail brought much in the way 
of news concerning the men of '22 and their 
families, so let us quote or note the high spots 
of some of the Christmas messages. 
We arc, indeed, not happy to report that our good friend Charlie Hirsdbbuhl has been con­fined to bed for the past two months on ac­count of illness, but he has been discharged from the hospital, and is now at home under the lo\ing and watchful care of his wife, Pat: This illness, of course, prevented the Hirsclibuhls from carr>*ing out their plans of going to LA to see the USC football game. We do appre­ciate Pat's thoughtfulness in writing, and we expect to assist her nursing actii'ities with some '20. Also present were Gene Calhoun, Tom Ashe; Gene Kennedy could not attend, and it was too bad we missed seeing him. 
We had a nice visit with Jerrj* Barrett, and accidentally happened on Danny Coughlin, of Waseca, Minn., in the Hotel St. Paul CoflTee Shop, at St. Paul. 
All these of '22—Al Scott, Jerry Barrett, and Dan Cougfalin are going to make the 30th if possible. Al is going to sec his son be graduated at Notre Dame just one week prior, so he surely should be at the reunion. 
Sympathy to Himic Anderson on the death of his father, WOliam J. Anderson. 
Jane Hanrahan, writing for tlie Buffalo branch of the Hanrahan family, informs us that her brother Vincent and his family have left the Canal Zone, and are now residing in the U. S. Vince is living at 10025 Lorain Ave., Silver Spring, Maryland. His work is in Washing­ton, D. C. 
Harold McKee has been on the sick list, too, since mid-fall, but was not confined to bed, as 
has his pal—Hirschy. Mac is on the mend. He 
and %vifc—Ellen challenged the Joe Farle>-s to 
the session at cards during the Christmas holi­
da>-s. 
Stephen Eugene Carmody of the Carlinville 
Carmodys refuses to be awed by the report in 
last issue of the ALUMNUS of Barrister James 
Jones and family of Rochester, N. Y., Ste\'c 
writes: 
I just read your report; glad you arc back on 
the job. I shall plan on seeing you, come 
June. Did not see a football game this year. 
My boj-s attended the SMU game. Thomas 
Patrick is a sophomore here at Blackburn. He 
intends to take law at ND. Chuck is a junior 
in High School. Mary Jo is in training at St. 
Joseph's Hospital, and Anne—my secretary is in 
the sL\th grade. The good Mrs. Carmody is still 
the boss, and has demoted the Old Man to the 
bottom of the list, but I will try for a late "per" 
for the 30th Reunion." 
One from Ed and Joan Bailey- reads as follows: 
"It is surely hard to keep up with your ad­
dresses. AVe are fine. Ed is back from Korea 
with two bronze stars, and no wounds after 19 
months over there under fire. Bill is out, too. 
Bob is still in. John is married, and gets his 
law degree from Texas in June. Jim is a bar­
rister in Houston, so 8 arc home." 
Unless you have visited the Baile>-s ivhile at the Bailey dinner table, you have not seen any­thing. It would be hard to imagine a finer family group. 
Helen Gaffney, ^vidow of our deceased friend and classmate Cyril, writes from New Britain, the note, following: 
'*I had a nice week with our son Brian at 
Notre Dame—he loves it, but thinks the course 
is "rough." Isn't it a gorgeous campus? The 
Sluhldrehers have cntert^ned Brian, and Walter 
showed him all the spots that **Gaf" visited. I 
wish you could see our boys. Bernard is a 
senior at Yale. 
OUie Scfaell of Tyrone, Pa., wxites this quickie: 
"If we do not meet before, we surely should 
next June. I am planning to make the reunion, 
meantime good luck." 
Just how could wc say '*no, thank you" to this wonderful invitation from Harold and Lucile Weber. It's quote: 
"Lucy and I are looking fon^'ard to seeing you and all other '22ers in June — hopefully at our home at Diamond Lake. Vfhy not schedule the same good party for our 30th that bad weather necessitated' cancelling out at the last minute on our 25th ? Lucy and I would be delighted at such a decision." 
Many, many thanks to you—^Harold and Lu­
cile; do believe you are going to have company 
at Diamond Lake next June. 
There is a nice letter from George Heneghan of Cliicago, to quote almost of its entirety: 
"I am glad you have started the ball rolling for our 30th reunion, and I shall tr>' to promote attendance, which is the primary requisite for its success. I, also, feel very grateful to those who Were so generous and gracious in their arrange­ments for our 25th reunion, and hope that the rest of us, can express our appreciation in the success of the 30th. 
"I have not been able to conceive any better idea - for inspiring action than the method used five years ago of sending a list of the men of '22 to each man, and ask htm to write to, at least, the three men whose names follow his on the class roster. If you have not already made arrangements for some such program, maybe we should get the Clucagoland Committee to imder­take this feature. I would not want to steal the thunder from the originators fo this method." 
"I have been seeing Emmett Biu'ke quite often in activities sponsored by the Fathers Club of Leo High School. His boy is a freshman, and mine is a junior. We just completed our mark as committee members for a very successful tes­timonial banquet at ^^'hich Warren Brown was toastmastcr, and Klfxtse Krause was principal speaker. Other speakers were Johnny Lujack and Geoi^e Connor. 
"I want to express my sincere grief in the loss of our good friend Dr. Tom Keefe. It 
really is a shame that his good work and fine 
example were not longer a^-ailable for the edifi­
cation of us all. 
**Also, I can offer much sympathy to those 
who have lost members of their families because 
my Mother died last May 26. She had been 
confined to her bed since October of the previous 
year, and was taken from Chicago to St. Joseph's 
Hospital, South Bend, on March 28 so that her 
daughter Sister Lea James of St. Mary's could 
be with her, and give professional help in caring 
for her. My sister's superiors were very kind and 
generous in permitting her to be with our Mother 
during her long illness. 
''Another casualty in our family was my wife's 
sister's husband—C. D. Rex, who took practic­
ally . all the Notre Dame group and activity pic­
tures for many years as an associate in the 
Bagfoy Photo Co. The last picture I saw him 
take was during the 25th reunion. He ^vas 
killed in a fall from a horse, a year ago this 
past summer, while \vc were vacationing at his 
cottage in Northern Afichigan. 
Please let me know if you have anything that 
you would like for 'me to do any time. 
George Heneghan 
Our deep sympathy to you George in the death of your dear Mother, and Brother-in-lav%-. Also, we thank you for your kind offer of help for the 30th. 
Father Bob Shedian, C.S.C., writes that he is 
really going to work on matter of getting '22ers 
interested in our reunion. 
Here is a note from that beloved old first sacker of Father Connie Haggerty's Amen Comer Miistangi who were the scourge of the Dujarie Hall basdiall team in the roaring '20's—^John Paul Collett. JP, who is manager of the Vet­erans Administration Office in Miluraukee, GHQ of the Wisconsin area, writes to tell of the other N D men connected with the Milwaukee office of VA. 
Dud Pearson, '20, is chief of the appraisal... sectioiT'-in''the' loan division. Neil Flinn, '23, is Dud's assistant in appraisal. Dick Ballinan, '35, lawyer, is an . authorizer of disability claims in the adjudication division. 
In charge of the Madison, Wis., field office is John Tobin, '34. Also in the claims division at Milwaukee is Guy F. Marshall, '14, lawyer on one of the boards handling claims. Marshall finished his law at Georgetown. 
JP sa>*s he expects to attend our 30th, and will do all possible to get other men of '22 to at­tend. Here is the breakdown on the Cullcn family now attending school: 
Mary Alice, 13 is now in high school, Mark, 11 and Peter, 8 are in grade school—all paroc:hial. He further reports Mrs. Cullen and all the Cullens are well. 
In our tmdergraduate days we would wonder how Eddie Anderson got that way—that is, how-he, a comparatively slight man could take the gaff required of a football end and always come back for more. Indeed, it was reported that Eddie played three years of high school football and four at Notre Dame (including 1918—a war year making freshmen eligible) and never lost a minute of action due to personal injury. 
Jim Leahy's seven, which earned Jim the family size prize at 1930*s 20th Reunion. 

Your. (acting) secretary can now report that Eddie conditioned himself by working on a sec­tion gang during vacations, for the Minneapolis and St. Louis Railway. And by the way, Eddie's team mates. (compared with today's linemen)— Hunk Andenon, Morrie Smith and Roger KUcy —were never very brittle either; but just now we arc not going into their conditioning processes. 
Doctor Eddie Anderson as head football coach at Holy Cross had a fine season, losing only to Tulanc and Boston College by very close scores. 
Buck Shaw as head coach of the professional San Francisco M9cr5 had a successful season. During the regular season play his team was the only one to defeat the Cleveland Browns, who later lost the pro championship to the Los An­geles Rams. 
The Doctor Hunk Atkinsons of Green Bay, Wis., arc now grandparents by reason of a baby born to their son Tommy, and of course the absent-minded reporter forgot to ask if the latest was a boy or girl. 
At any rate, wc congratulate the grandparents. The .Atkinsons' second son Henry is attending St. Norbert's College at Dc Pcre, Wis. 
On Jan. 21 in Bayside, L. I., Father Geoi^e Fischer, C.S.C., oHtctated at the wedding of the daughter of Joe Tiemey, '21. The bridc­clcct is a sister of Father Joseph Tiemey, C.S.C., who is now located in Pakistan. 
Your (acting) secretary recently saw some of his classmates in widely separated places—the Hon. AI Scott at luncheon during the Christmas holiday season in the Los Angeles Board of Trade Building, as guest of the ever genial Leo Ward, ceremonies were most impressive and the oppor­tunity of renewing old acquaintances made the occasion a memorable one. 
1926 
John J. R)*an, Secretary­2434 Grecnleaf Avenue Chicago 45, Illinois 
By the time you receive this issue of the ALUMNUS not only the Christmas mail bu: the Christmas bills will have passed through the post office. To add to the rush of Christmas mail your secretary, finally, on Dec. 15 mailed the report of our 23th Reunion. I'll assume that you all got them. Our president, Ray Durst, dropped me a note to acknowledge receipt and so did Tino Poggiam. Tino even said he might latct send in something for the column. Anyway, I hope you all had a lot of fun looking over the pictures of the reunioneers. Perhaps you might have some comment about them — the columns arc open for comment. 
As usual, with any mailing, there were some returns. 1*11 not give the addresses used but if any of you know the whereabouts of the follow­ing, please notify your secretary or the Alumm office. Mail was returned from: William E. Byrne, Alfred L. Meyers, A. Lester Pierce, John .A. Roth, James P. Stewart and Brother Henry Casimir, F.S.C. 
From Elkton, Md., came an announcement from Bob Andrews whose daughter, JuHc May, was married on Dec. 29, 1951 to Thomas E. 
- Mattimoc, Lieutenant, U.S.M.C. Congratulations to the newly-weds. 
There must be a story in a card received last week from Drexel Hill, Pa. It was a Happy New Year card from the ne^v address, 633 Harper Avenue, Drexel Hill, Pa., of Dick and 
•Mary Donnelly and The Seven Little Donnellys. A move from the great state of Texas (Fort Worth) to the great commonwealth of Pennsyl­vania (Drexel Hill) surely is worth some news -to your classmates, so how about a letter, Dick? 
The last issue of the ALUMNUS carried a story on Bert Dunne which brought a letter of thanks. To Bert's way of thinking it set at rest rumors that he was no longer among the living following his serious operation of last .April. Bert wants it known that he is alive and is paying his bills. (Which reminds your secre­tary* to send our treasurer a bill for the cost 
• of getting out that Reunion report. It's such a nice feeling to know the class has money in the bank and can take crare of its expenses.) 
Speaking of our Treasurer — George Hartnett was recently elected President of the Merchants and Manufacturers Club which is located in the world's biggest (not tallest) building, the Mer­chandise Mart in Chicago. He promises, how­ever, not to let his presidential duties interfere with his treasury duties. 
In my last column I suggest the possibility of some "Do you remember?" notes. Sorry to say that, so far, that effort has been unproductive. Perhaps if I stick a couple in here it might bring some to mind and you fellows .will follow through. 
DO YOU REMEMBER when the stables burned and the ''volunteer" firemen who were playing a stream of water on the building dis* covered It could be used more eflfcctively by rais­ing the nozzle so as to clear the building and catch the Prefect of Discipline who was reported on the other side? Were any of you on that hose? 
.Also DO YOU REMEMBER the eight o'clock History class on Saturday morning and the quizzes that counted as an attendance record? and DO YOU REMEMBER when one of our classmates was asked If he couldn't make up his mind as to the proper answer to the question for "he" had turned In three separate answers? 
What DO YOU REMEMBER? Send it in and let's sec If It will make someone else remember. If this will bring some material for this column we'll keep it up, otherwise 1*11 have to go back to those postal cards and although our treasury is in the black the high price of the cards could hurt It. Let's hear from you. 
25 YEAR 
REUNION 


JUNE 6-7-8 

Frank Aforan 
633 East Monroe Street 
South Bend I, Indiana 
Replies to the class questionnaire Indicate that 
the Class of 1927 will be at full reunion strength 
for the 25th Anniversary gathering. 
With replies still coming in, and semester 
examinations consuming considerable time, your 
secretary asks to be excused from listing those 
coming until the next issue. The Alumni Office 
promises that by the time the next issue of 
the .ALUMNUS is ready, they will know which 
hall has been assigned the class, and will have 
a definite reunion program. 
.At this writing we do know positively that 
the two high spots of the reunion weekend will 
be: 1) Father Cavanaugh's Dinner for the Silver 
Anniversary* Class, on Friday evening, June 6, 
and 2) the Annual Alumni Banquet on Saturday 
evening, June 7. 
Hastily, your secretary again reaches for his 
grading pencil and goes back to those stacks 
of examination papers. 
1928 
I.eo R. Mclntyre, Secretary 
3004 Turner St. Alleniown, Pa. 
Your humble and contrite secretary* — humble because swift and sapient runners like Bern Garbcr, our treasurer, Lou Buckley, our presi­dent and Jack Canizaro, our vice president for the South, have been carrying the secretarial ball. and contrite because I've been missing our a'ling Managing Editor John Bums' bi-monthly dead­lines with annoying regularity — Is happy to award his silver star for gallantry in giving news items for this edition to Bern Garbcr, Class scribe in everything but title, who has literally deluged me with news items about you great and good Twenty-Eighters. 
Before delving Into this news-item deluge, please permit me to wish you all and all yours a happy, healthy and prosperous New Year. God bless you and yours always is my fervent wish. 
Thank you for your Christmas greetings. It was good to hear' froni ^ Classmates Bern Garbcr, Lou Buckley, Bill Dowdall, Howie Phalin, Ed McKcown, Bill Murphy, Tom Traughber, John Frederick, et al. 
President Buckley's Christmas greeting revealed 
that he has moved from 'West Adams Street to 
No. 1253 North Central Avenue, Chicago 51, 
Illinois. His idea of roundiBS iq> all the Twenty-
Eighters at Notre Dame's iKMne football games 
fay sending each member of the Class a postcard, 
listing the gate number, etc., was an excellent 
one. The card can be conveniently carried in 
one's coat pocket or wallet. 
This practice, like the one he instituted of having Mass said for our deceased members, shotdd be made permanent. Let's not forget during 1952 to send a. contribution to our Treasurer, BcfBard A. Gaffacr, c/o the Corfoin Company, 33 West 60th Street, New York 23, 
N. Y. Your generous contributions will guaran­tee permanence to President Buckley's worth­while idea; and the fine things he and his fellow officers are planning for our twenty-fifth reunion at Notre Dame in June, 1953. Sit down now and scrawl that check to Bern Garber to swell our class fund, which is now teetering near the $300.00 mark. 
Louie wrote in a recent letter that he was gratified to sec that Aogie Grams was president of the ND alumni club in LaCrosse, Al Schnnrr president in Sandusky, Joe Langtca secretary-treasurer of the St. Louis club and yours truly president of the Eastern Pennsylvania club. 
Garber's genial gossip goes as folIou3: 
"More 'news for you.' By the time an ALU}kl-NUS is printed that contains it, much will appear stale I'm afraid. That mag should come out more often and regularly! It's always welcome. 
"Recently Jack Wmgerter, Dick Parrish, Steve Sherry and I had lunch together. Still ha\ing his famous smile. Jack is assistant-to-the-presldent and general-manager of Transfilm, Inc., N. Y. C. Parrish, at Columbia U., returned to New York in September after spending - the summer \-acation in his native Fairmont, W. Va. 
'*Hcrb McCabe, who resides in Allenhurst, 
N. J., is second vice-president of Guaranty Trust Co. of New York. (Thanks for the tip, Bern) Dorothy (his wife) and I had dinner with Joe Brcig and his wife Mary while he was In N. Y. at the Catholic Press Convention, where he spoke — or did I tell you this before? 
"Hudaoa Jeffreys, who won boxing champion­ships regularly while a ND student, is now win­ning law cases just as regularly back in the Buckeye State. His barrister's shingle hangs from 411 Center Street, fronton, Ohio. He plans to be with us In June, 1953. 
"Hope you aren't snowed in fay all the class­mate letter: I forwarded to you. (The letter papei on which this was written contained nu­merous small spots which could have been tear­drops) To date the response to my appeals (they were both adroit and affable) totals $272.00. That has been contributed by 54 persons, one guy kicked in twice as you know. Will you put this in the '28 column, please? I think it is a good response but Buckley the Bucko and others do not. (Buckley is a hard man to please; so don't feel too badly about it. Ask John Bums) 
*'A recent letter from Dick fturish telb of the death of his mother late last summer, bring­ing expressions of sympathy from his classmates. He is back in New York now. Ridiard D. Qwnlan, of 1117 N. Dearborn Street, Chicago, 
Father Joseph May, pastor of Our Lady ol Hungary Church, Northampton, Pa^ rc­ceivii^E a framed portrait d Knute Rockne &om '28 Class Secretary Leo Mc­lntyre. Leo's son Lee is at right. 
III., lost his \v-ife, who was known by a numbt-r 
of our class, he informed me in a letter con­
taining a contribution to the class fund. (Our 
deepest s>Tnpaihy is extended to Dick) Dick 
said that he was glad I was getting tilings going 
for our reunion in 1953 and expressed the hope 
that everyone would be on hand. 
"Finally realizing that Fronds L. DuQuette, 

living at 70 Westway, Mt. Kisco, N. Y., was 
close to home, I called there sometime ago 
Saturday noon, met his charming wife and fine 
son and learned he was then out shopping for 
paint, tools, etc., as every proper Westchester 
commuter should do- He is with General Electric 
in New York. 
"While in Butler (his home town) I talked 

with Pha Walsh, *30 (?) recently married and 
also with Joe Robinson, ex '29. Said hello to 
Jack and ifrs. Wingerter, Spring Lake, X. J., 
Little Ballingarry home. Lou Buckley had luncli 
with Steve Sherry and me several months back. 
Said he was in N. Y. on business but I think he 
was checking the class treastuy. Xo expenditure, 
however. (Allentown is en route to Gotliam, 
Lou and only 90 miles away) 
"Did you get rid of all those bugs, Leo; I 

hope so. How do you feel by now? Maybe you 
are like me —Just getu'ng old! I hope that's why 
I feel badly so often! (I'm emerging from the 
woods after battling a vims infection and sub­
sequently virus pneumonia) 
"Energetic William F. *BiIl* Cronin, who per­

formed so well as chairman of the nominating 
committee. Class *28, has offices at 1600 Broad­
way, New York 19, N. Y. John C. Fontana, ^vho 
has law offices at 50 West Broad. Street, Columbus 
15, Ohio, reporU that he is one of five Twent^-
Eighters residing in Ohio's State capital. 
The others ar« James W. Shocknessy, Joseph 

Kinneary, John Igoe and John Ra>-mond Miurhy. 
Continues jovial John: *Igoc is now in the con­
tracting business with his in-lau-s, Visintine & 
Co. Murphy is selling insurance for the North­
western Mutual and, according to the Catholic 
newspapers, he is very active in Holy Name 
Society circles (Howie Fhatin, his old side kick, 
who gave John Raymond his first selling job 
selling World Book will be happy to read this) 
Shocknessy is bus>- building highways for Gov­
ernor I^usche and Kinneary is busy making his 
new bride happy- As for myself, I am just 
practicing law.* 
**Our Junior Class president, Maurice B. Con­ley, informs me in a letter enclosing a substan­tial contribution, that he has been Cit>* Judge of the City of Fulton, N. Y., for more than ten years and is practicing law in Fulton. He has seven children and his oldest son, Peter, expects to enter Notr« Dame in the fall of 1952, provided the Lord is willing and prorided further that the armed scrxices have not claimed him before. 
"James G. Cowles, who helped swell our dass fund, is now a busy lawyer wth offices at 515 Market Street, Shrcveport, La. Our class cer­tainly has turned out more than its quota of lawyers, hasn't it?" (Cowles congratulated our able Treasurer on 'the refreshing and isgenious manner ol approaching the money situation* and informed him that the alumnus of another xmi­versity was so 'intrigued by Garbcr's letter that he intends to send the same letter to members of his class) 
Here's a hodgepodge of items gleaned from the bundle of letters Treasurer Garbcr sent to me: 
Noib Sddensticker, of Chillicothe, Ohio (also Art Haley's borne town—^It's a fine old town; I've been there often) reports that he has been a resident of Chillicothe since graduation and now has three daughters and two sons. He not only made a contribution, but promised to send some more mazuma along in the near future. He writes: **I hate to think of bur being out of school almost twenty-five years but will admit that I am eagerly looking forv^'ard to our meeting aC that time. Best of luck to you, Beraic, and I appreciate all that you and the other fellows have done to keep our class together and in­formed about each other.** 
Rjiy Madk, one of our Class* able athletes, excelling in basketball and baseball while at ND, writes from the student placement bureau of the College of St. Thomas, St, Paul, Minn., as fol­lows: **Your letter was well received, Bemie. I like the idea of new ofiicers (except Louis B. who would al%vays do a mar\'elous job and there­fore we couldn't let him go) Since discharge from the U. S. Navy in October, 1945, I was with the V.A. as a training specialist for four years. 
In .April, 1950, I came to St. Thomas as direc­tor of placement. I have two daughters and plan on returning to ND for our 25-year reunion. I sec Tom Mahon, Ed Fahcy, Dennis Daly, Paul Castncr quite frequently. Bob Fogarty is on the faculty here and I see him almost daily. I also correspond with Bill 'Turk* Kelly and Johnny C. Bums. 1 talked to Jack La\'clle on his last win­ter's risit to Minneapolis. Best to both of you." (Garber and Mclntyrc) 
C. Arnold Thoma, of 316 S. DoM'ning Street, Piqua, Ohio, in making our class fund richer, informed Bern tliat the architects in the Class of 1928 planned to have a number of Classes said for the late Bob Knox, who was one of them. He desired to know tlic addresses of fel­low architects Jack Canizaro, Jackson, Miss., Sam Duba (Silvin P.) Mundclcin, 111., Pat Var­raveto, 3968i4 Revere, Los Angeles 26, Calif., and Ed Bethke, 1245'/2 W. Governor St., Spring­field, III. He \v'tshed also to be remembered to Stc\-e Sherry who is a confrere of Garber at Corbin Company in the late Jimmy Walker's wonderland. 
Cheerfully contributing to the class fund, Paul Brust comments: "The Class of '28 deser\-es this check for a noble deed, the remembrance of its deceased members by the sa^'ing of Masses. Other good deeds are sure to be accomplished by silver jubilee time. \Ke have moved to a new location and the address on all ND records should read 622 N. 77lh Street, Milwaukee, Wis. The ex­panded family of four boys and two girls bulged the walls of our former home and required the change. The business of architecture will have to be good for a while to take care of the gang. (Lots of luck to all the Brusts in the new location!) 
In a humorous vein, John David Igoe, our soft­ball star and manager of our great basketball team of 1927-28, who not so long before had been badly injured in an accident, typed on the letterhead of Visintine and Associates, general contractors, 1319 Edgehill Road, Columbus 12, Ohio, the following: 
"Enjoyed your letter and am forwarding a small contribution that I will supplement when the plans for our reunion take form. 
"Moved to Columbus about a year ago and am trying to learn something about the COD' tracting business. So far, there has bees no im­provement in my intellect but the boss is of kindly nature and he ^v'ill not 'fail' me. Had lunch today ^\•ith John Fontana and Joe Kin­neary — a rather ribald occasion for they as Democrats (or reasonable facsimiles of same) spare no effort to stir me to debate — on sub­jects that I know nothing about (a true Demo* cratic qualification). 
"Joe who for many years was one of our Class bachelors finally took the matrimonial step — and is still treading on the proverbial clouds. Now and then I meet Jim Shocknessy (still a *28 bachelor) and we manage a short exchange of greetings and quips. Jim Is chairman of Ohio*5 new Turnpike Commission and he is so busy planning the derails of the road and I so busy tr>'ing to learn to pave them that tee cannot loiter too long for the pleasantries. 
"Bemie, I have no suggestion for our re­union but I do think the Mass idea is a dandy. 
The Fred L. Mahaffcy (Indianapolis) Family, as they appear on Fred's Ghrist­mas card. Fred is one of Bemie VolTs stalwarts working for the '17 reunion in June. 
If there is any way in which I can help please 
call on me.** 
AttrtA A. Sdinurr, Jr., registered architect and 

engineer, of Sandusky, Ohio, in a jovial mood 
deqiite the fact that he had just succumbed to 
Garbcr's wizardry in extracting money painlessly, 
informed me that he had given up his architec­
tural and engineering pursuits to take over, along 
with his two brothers, his fatlier's general con­
tracting business. (His father passed away late 
in August and we extend our sympathy to AI and 
his brothers) 
Al has two sons, one of whom entered Notre 

Dame last September in the College of Engineer­
ing. "Poor guy!" commiserates his father, our 
Al. He states that he will be at our 25-year 
reunion, God willing, pointing out that he hasn't 
attended a reunion since 1929. 
'^Anything in the way of a program is OK with me just as long as there arc '28 . men there!'* exclaims Al. He adds: "The only other *28 alumnus around here is Russ Smith, the 'con­crete' mogul in this city of 30,000 souls. I talk to him quite often and give him the devil about the high price of his concrete and then go over ' to his house and drink up his beer. Some 
situation!" 
Getting a "kick" out of Garber's mendicanting missive, Joe Braunsdori kicked in to swell the class fund. "Keep up the cheerful method," urged Joe, who resides at 818 N. St. Louis Bou­levard in South Bend, 
Bern bobs up again w*ith an item. "You might add to your next column," he t>-pcs, "that Mr. and Mrs. Larry Colliney had their third child In June, a son, making it two boys. Registrar Father Thornton please note. Grand job on that first column! You can't keep it up!" (How right you are, Bern, my boy!) 
Barrister Bob Hamilton, back from a jaunt 

through Afcxico, Havana and Miami via New 
Orleans, forwards Garber a contribution and rue­
fully pens: "I can readily ^understand why you are 
an asset .to any public relations firm (The Corbin 
Company in particular). I'm in favor of putting 
you in complete charge of the Notre Dame 
Founilation! (Jim Armstrong please note). I 
spent a lovely evening ^vith Boian Burice in New 
Orleans and had dinner with his fine family. 
He himself though is still a bachelor and quite 
unconcerned about this situation. 
He's been leading a very quiet life but is busy 

with his insurance business — maybe the presence 
of the Kcfawer Committee has something to do 
with this! (Page Classmate John AVinberry, legal 
aide to the Kefauver Committee %vhose hand­
some lisage appeared next to that of Senator 
Kefauver on front pages of Eastern newspapers 
when the Committee was conducting its New 
York City hearings) 
Joe Friel is on his way to N. O. to get a closer look at the Schwegcman outfit which took the Fair Trade law to the Supreme Court and resulted in the Macy-Gimbel scrap for lower prices. I gave htm Bo's address as I am sure Bo knows everyone one should know in N. O." Hypnotic powers most assuredly does Garber possess because he even was able to extract money from Banker Herbert P. McCabc, second vice-president, as we noted above, of Guaranty Trust Company of New York. Writes Herb: "Sorry that I have very little news tor heo Ibfclntyrc. Even though I travel arotmd the country extensively I do not run into any ND people (This certainly puts us behind the finan­cial eight ball. Herb, as Garber implied in his dunning note) I plan on attending our 25th reunion and am sorry I missed the 20th. Mar>' (his wife) is fine and my boys are now 15 and 
12. Best regards.** John J. "Jack** IVu^ertcr, whose name appears on the Transfilm, Inc., letterhead as assistant to the President, with ofiBces at 35 W. 45th Street, New York 19, N. Y., in a Winchellian mood, inscribes sparklingly as follows: "Leo, first of all perha^ you can straighten out my correct address with the Alumni office (Note well, Jim Armstrong) I have advised them several times that for the last three years my address is 'Little Ballingarry,* Spring Lake, New Jersey and not c/o Time, Inc. "Re: *28crs—I sec Lou Carr frequently as he lives in Spring Lake. He is married, naturally, has a charming wife, about four kids, a delight­ful home, is with the Jersey Coast Lines Trans­portation Co., bus lines, etc, and pretends to be * fur golfer. 
"Joha J. (SmitUterger-Kefanver) Winberry has to date turned do^vn four offers from HoUywood 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

due tc hU smash appearance on TV during the Kcfaui-cr hearings. (Jact is right; I saw IVin­berry on TV and ako on the front pages of the £ast's leading newspapers) Whitc-mancd Win­berr>' is known locally as the poor man's J. Edgar Hoover. John married rather late in life (He was still a bachelor when we rcuncd in 1948] but has one child born on Father's day. 
He stilt thinks of cvcr>-thing. Recently had a few drinks with Winbcrr>' at the Men's Bar at the Waldorf, but he had little to say since he spent the whole time matching stares with Frank Costello, who was propped against the bar in front of us. John is a lau^yer and the expert on organized crime in New Jersey. So expert, in fact, that he is receiving money for writing articles on the subject in national magazines. 
''Bernard (Ponce de Leon) Garber and I met Iiead on the day after the big storm last fall for the first time in years. As many who attended the 20th reunion will remember, he hasn't changed since '28 (He and I during that re­union ate at Clark's in South Bend and the ^%'aite^, spying Bern's green cap, asked him if he were a member of the Freshman Class at ND) Though we exchanged many notes and pleasantries on old classmates, he didn't act like one. He refused to give me the name of his hair-dresser. 
"Frank Galardy appears to be one engineer 
who has stuck with it. He has his own firm, 
automatic intercommunicating telephone systems, 
just off Fifth Avenue, Manhattan. He is mar­
ried, lives in Short Hills, New Jersey and de­
lights to tell you about his flowers, landscaping 
and his days in Badin (?) hall. He hasn't 
changed much, is a little fatter, a little grayer 
and I believe, a Jitlle shorter. 
**Roger (Doc) Breslia is a law>-cr, married, has 
five children, lives in Glen Rock, N. J., is still 
an upper-Right golfer and, incidentally, my 
brother-in-law (Congratulations, Jack) 
Thomas (Shiv) Purcell practices law in New 
York City and, as far as I know, from hearsay 
only, now lives in Belmar, X. J. (How about 
Russ Riley? He's practicing law too. What do 
you know about him?) 
"Lawrence (The Other One) Wingerter (He's Jack's big brother) is firmly married, has four children, lives in San Antonio, Texas and is mired up in San Antonio transportation. 
"That's all. Please convey my best wishes to 
all the new officers of '28. Best regarfls." 
Charles H. Lynch, who conducts law offices at 621 South Spring Street, Los Angeles, Calif., made a substantial contribution to the class fund and this nostalgic obser\-ation: "I would like to contribute a lot more money, but in retro­spect, when I think of all the money I left at Huilie and Afike's, and then realize that they went broke, too, how do you expect me to feel about making a donation to the Class of '28. They will only do what Huilie and Mike did. 
(Not on your life! Not with Garber and Buckley at the helm) I wish you success in your endeavors. P.S.: If, by some accident, this check doesn't bounce (It didn't), send it back and I will send you one that will." 
Startled was I to receive in the familiar hand­writing of Howard .V. Phalin, Notre Dame Coun­cil's most able grand knight and our vice-president for nearly a quarter century-, a letter from the famous Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn. I was greatly relieved, upon opening the letter, to read the following: "Don't faint. I am going through the Mayo Clinic for a routine physical. SG between doctors I think of you, I am reading the May-June Alumnus. 
First, I want to congratulate you on your first opus. It is magnificent and reminds me of Kubiak (McClave Printing Co. head in South Bend) and the great work you did on Notre Dame Council's paper. We couldn't have a better or more efficient secretary than Leo R. The Class deserves ' credit for its good judgment (I wonder. Note to John Burns: You better clear this with Lou Buckley) So tell Edith (my good ^rife) that her prayers and novenas were over­shadowed by the kind thinking of nearly 4(X) others. 
"Had not heard of the loss of your son before. *Pete* (Howie's wife Evangeline) and I send our sincere sympathy to you both. I know your grief all the more as my mother died suddenly four weeks ago today. My dad passed away 18 months ago. Blanche AfcKeoivn (Ed's wife) told us you phoned her the last time you were in Chicago. Our phone is Wilmette 3216. Ha! I had a nice chat with Jack Canizaro while in Jackson, Miss., recently. He designed the 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
THOMAS A. KEEGAN 

Member of the law firm of Knight, Haye and Keegan, Rockford, III., Tom was recently appointed Federal Master­in-Chancery for the Western District of Northern Illinois. Appointment was made by Federal judges of the Northern Illinois District. 
Tom is a 1930 graduate of the Uni­versity. He served in World War II as a Navy officer. 
Married, and the father of two daughters Ann and Elizabeth; the Keegans live at 626 Ashland, Rock­ford. 
Bishop's residence there and it is beautiful. 
"Have been to the Arlington race track once in two or three years and who do I meet there this year but Andy (Foxhead) Powers. Saw Joe Breig in Cleveland not so long ago. He and his wife came down to the Statler and spent the evening with me. You probably know he edits the Catholic Diocesan paper and does a wonderful job. Have you read his articles and stories in Columbia? (I have and Una Houston of Bethlehem, who formerly lived near .Joe when he was in the Pittsburgh area, keeps me up to date on Joe and his family and their actiWties) 
"Pete and I made the pilgrimage to Rome last fall. Bob Knox died suddenly in London. I was a pallbearer at his funeral. Count on me to do cvcr>-thing I can for the 25th reunion.'* 
Howie was too modest to mention it, but I learned from another source recently that in the fall Phalin was appointed Eastern sales manager of AVorld Bookr with offices in New York Cily-Howie, however, will continue to hang bis crliapcau in his fine home at 718 Sheridan Road, Wilmette, 111. 
Brother Paul, C.S.C., who teaches Latin at St. Edward's High School, Cleveland, O*. recently called at my home to report that Pat Canny, special counsel for the Erie Railroad, the father of a son and t^vo daughters, has his son enrolled at St. Edward's. He told me that Pat is a stern disciplinarian and calk the school frequently to ascertain the progress his son is making and how he can cooperate in improving his son's work. 
He is active in the parent-teacher atinfiltio^ of the school and his eaxnestness ami amcaitf impress the faculty of the school gicatly.' Re­cently Pat recen-ed mentkm in an article wiittea by Hany Grayson, N.E ^ sports editor, for a chain of ne%vsp^iers as part of Notre Dane's "vast football scouting system." Grayson said 
that Pat, Jack LanDe and Joe Byrae and some others spend' a great deal of time each ^year beating the bushes for topflight high school football players to send to Frank Leaky at Notre Dame, 
Our All-American left halfback, Ckrisde SaB> of Port Arthur, Texas, was written about recently in the Saturday £venio|f Post. The Post article states that Christie, the lamonx 
Notre Dame football player, was still a hero'is his home town and that in a recent drive to secure funds for the erection of a ku^e bric^ Christie's services were enlisted, in day-Ion^ j ^ peals periodically over the local radio statioa ior funds. The article credited Christie's radio ap­peals with putting the fund-raising campaign ior the bridge over the top. (Bern Garber please 
note. Here's a worthwhile aid) 
The Jiands<Hne Donrdall family. Bill, his wife, daughter Barbara and son. BiUy, stc^iped off lome time ago for several hours en route to New York Cit> from their home in Buffalo. Bill reported on the progress being made by Gas Jenkins, former educator, in executive sales work, on the climb up the political ladder of Bcmie Bird, now city treasurer of Buffalo, of the never-changing, forever youthful Marty Ryan, our famous cross­country runner and of the great work being done in Buffalo in building many dircly-needed churches and hi|^ schools by our former rel^on teacher, fellow alumnus and former ND president. Most Rev. Jolm F. CTHaia, CS.a , Bishop of Buffalo and now by ^qrpointment of Pope Pius Archbishc^ of Philadelphia. 
Bill said that Bishop, now Archblshi^ O'Ibra, despite his exceedingly busy schedule always found time to visit with Notre Damers and when a death occurred in a Notre Dame family he appeared in person to express bjs condolences. (Back in 1934 when Archbishop O'Hara was President of Notre Dame Cbarics B. McDcnMtt,.. ND '27, and my good friend, was killed in aa automobile accident and he hurriedly left his Presidential duties to attend the funeral and to preach a beautiful funeral sermon in the Churdi of the Immaculate Conception, AUentown, for his friend Charlie). 
An interesting fetter arrived before Christmas from Winiam Hanky Mnpfay, yclept "Murph," of 10515 Hamilton Avenue, Chicago 43, 111., in which he informed me that he is stSl in the chemical compound business in the Windy City and manages from time to time to see and talk to President Buckley, Eddie Rafter,^ Bin Annn , John "Red** Cavanan^ and Chet Rice. 
He recounted that recently in hurrying to the late mass at Assumption Church, near the Mer­chandise Mart, he encountered Classmate. Bill Dwycr, who is now in the ad^'ertising business in the Builders' Building on LaSalle Street and, according to **Murph," has changed little if at all in weight and appearance since graduation. 
He explains that since his Company's oflfecs were moved out of the Loop to the North Side, he seldom gets down town. Instead, he spends most of his free time on the far South Skk^ where he enjoys cutting the lawn, painting the garage and other houshold chores, the mastering of which he acquired since 1933. 
"Murph'* concludes his letter (He must be a Republican) in this wise! "As you probably know, I spent 43 months in Uncle Sam's Army saving the world for democracy and the privilege of riding to the poor house or concentratioii camp in an auto (Teh! Teh!) or perhaps to Lou Bockky's Soda] Security office for a hand­out. 
"I am a Ititle heavier, grayer and periiaps more philosophical than when at ND. I am stiU a believer in miracles and have been waiting to see one in this country bfeore I die or retire to the 'Old Soldiers* Home.' I was sorry to hear of Howie Fkdin's mother's pasung. I occasionaUr see Jim Gosaon and Jokn Afakooey of our dass, law graduates in 1929. Incidentally, John has a son at Notre Dame in his second year. Makes me feel old. 
"Toat Trani^bcr, leading lawyer in ClaiksviUe, Tenn., stc^;»ped over for three hours in Chicago recently after flying in from NashviII^ He went to Fairbxnlt, Mmn., to inck up hu charming wife and son. Tom and I get together annually 
cither lierc or at ND. He was formerly located in Chicago prior to enlisting in Uncle Sara's Army. 
*'It took five men to locate him in the Ten­nessee hills. Tom is now, after four years in the Army, practicing law in Clarksvillc and last fall was elected for an eight-year term as State's Attorney. 
"Well, Leo, many wishes for a successful term as secretary and a thank you to Lou Bucklt-y for his faithful and excellent service to the Class of 1928. I'll be with you in 1953." 
What member of the Class has tlie most chil­dren ? Ed McKeo«Ti, lauycr and automobile dealer, implies that the honor belongs lo your humble and contrite sccretarv*. My wife and 1 have had eight children, five sons and three daughters. God bless them all! 
"Charles Philip "Bert** Lytic informed mc several vears ago that his fellow townsman and classmate, John F. Leitzingcr, who operates liis family's large department store in Clearfield, Pa., had eight children at tliat time. I met Bert and John on their way to Chicago after one of Notre Dame's home games. Both men regretted that they were unable to attend our 20-year reunion, but promised to exert even.- efi"ort to be present for the 25-ycar rendezvous. 
'•Then there was Frank J. Kelly, of Lee, Mass., who had seven duldren three years ago. 
"Has anyone seen or heard from Kelly lately? I note that Maury Conlcy, heard from earlier in the column, is the father of seven children. Let's hear from you large-family fathers and con­vince Ed McKcown that the Mclntyres are not in a class by themselves as he would imply. What do you have to report, John and Frank? 
Ed himself, still a big wheel in the law firm of Hassenauer, McKeown and Trusscll, with law offices at 105 West Adams Street, Chicago 3, 111., is the father of three children, two daugh­ters and a son. His son, I'm told, is a chip off the old block. 
Ed, who has been making a great comeback after a nearly fatal automobile accident several years ago, maintains a Cliicago residence at 7315 Emerald Avenue and has a fine home on Lake Michigan. He reports that he frequently sees Lou Buckley, Howie Phalin, Bill Kearney, Bert Korzen, Dick Phelan, Ed Brcnnan, BiU Armin and others. 
**I am feeling well," he concludes, "and hope I can get my new 1952 super deluxe Chrysler (He sells them) rounded up for a trip to Allcn­town sometime during the coming summer." (We shall be looking for you, Ed). 
Peter J. Gallagher, father of two fine sons, is teaching school during the day at Frccland, Pa., High School and at night manages one of the town's leading motion picture theatres. He is planning to attend our 25-ycar reunion. 
Christie D. J. Shull is practicing law in Stroudsburg, situated in Pennsyh-ania's picturesque Pocono Mountains. He has served as the com­munity's borough solicitor for at least fifteen years. Buckley will be happy to know that Christie is descended from a long line of dis­tinguished Democrats. His grandfather, the late Dr. Shull, who was a nonagenarian, represented ilie Northampton, Carbon and Monroe County district in the U. S. House of Representatives and his uncle, the late Judge Samuel Shull, seri'ed Monroe, his home county whicli embraces Stroudsburg, and Pike Counties as Judge for many years until his death. 
J. M. *'Botls'* Crowley, whose penmanship is excellent and signature tricky, in sending in his contribution, poses a question to Treasurer Gar­ber: **How can you,'* he asks, **keep James *Pat* Canny away from our 25th reunion party? And what would a reunion be without tlic Eric R. R.'s legal mind?" he queries further. 
He states that he has been with ^facGregor-Goldsmith, Inc., sports apparel, etc., eighteen years and is now in sales promotion with pro­fessional baseball being his responsibility; he points out that fifty per cent of the sixteen major league clubs, tliose finishing at the top in their respective leagues every season, wear MacG-G uniforms. He said he and Joe Morrissey get to­gelbcx often and that Joe's oldest son is at XD. **God willing I will be with you in 1953, but you will have to go some to surpass our 20-year gathering," he concludes. 
Here are two Xew Ycar*s resolutions all you 
26 



SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
REV. OTIS S. WINCHESTER, '29 
Rev. Otis S. Winchester, '29, a priest of the Cleveland diocese has begun to receive notice outside his own city limits for his extra-curricular work in rehabilitating alcoholics. 
He began in a small, quiet way several years ago, with funds provided by Cleveland businessmen, some of them members of Alcoholics Anony* mous. In addition to his duties at St, Malachi's Church, Cleveland, Father Winchester now^ operates two homes, Stella Maris and the Maryanne, the latter for women. 
The Maryanne was opened after Cleveland Bishop Edward F. Hoban received notes from citizens concerned over the plight of women alcoholics in Cleveland. He requested Fr. Win­chester to go ahead with a proj'ect for women on the same blueprint as the Stella Maris Home and the Maryanne, staffed by Sisters of the Daughters of the Heart of Mary, was put in opera­tion. 
Both homes are operated without regard to the religious persuasions of the persons treated there. "They are non-denominational," Father Win­chester says. "People of any faith— or no faith—are eligible." 
lads should adopt: First, to contribute something to the Class fund and second, to contribute at least one news item bi-monthly to your humble and contrite secretary-, who has a" hard time filling the big brogans left behind by Louie. 

Meanwhile, let your tocsin be: "We'll rally at ND in June, 2953i 
1930 
De\-erc T. Plunkeit Dcpt. of Hbtor\* Notre Dame, Indiana 
The following notes penned on Christmas cards came in during the holiday season: 
" I can hardly wait until January I, 1952 when I make my New Year's resolutions; for heading the list will be one to bring you up to date on my actix'ities here in the south. After the way you put it in the ALUMNUS, I must put you on the right track — those chairs with current arc too limited a field. 
"Your reporting in the .ALUMNUS is ahvays very interesting and you arc doing a splendid job. I always look forward lo this indirect way of hearing from you. You can expect a letter some time in January from mc. " 
Chet Ashman, Morristown, Tenn. 
"Thanks lor your good wishes. It was grand to hear from you again. Will try to send some news for our column in the ALUMNUS as sooq as I can. The very best of evcr>*thing to you and yours." Donnie Joe, Kathy, Mary Sue, Da%id, Alice and Bo Richards. 
"Thanks for your kind words. I shall tr>' to surpass my initial efforts in scnding^ news of alumni interest. Appreciated your help last fall in that ticket request. Regards to all my friends at school." ^Tim Tfwmey, New York City. 
"Hi, Dcv — 20 degrees below here. My best to you and the family. Wtll write some alumnus news soon." ^\'i, Tom, Jr., Denisc and Tom McDougal, .Antigo, Wis. 
Lou Haslcy has been named director of the Notre Dame ^Vriiers' conference lield annually on the university campus. He succeeds Totn Cas­sidy, *37, who has resigned to assume special work with tlic State Department. The confer­ence which attracts aspiring writers from all over the U. S., will be held June 23-28, 1952. 
Lou formerly was assistant dean of tlic - .Arts and Letters college. He has contributed poems, short stories and critical prose to the "Saturday Review of Literature," "Sign,** "America" and the '"New York Times.'* His short stor>-, "Me­teor in December" is- appearing in the current issue of *'Critic,*' published by the College Eng­lish .Association. . 
Bob Holmes (Indiana Bell Telephone), presi­dent of the local alumni club, should be proud of the fine banquet his club gave the 1951 ND football team in December. With Paul Fergus as general cliairman, the other local chairman covered evcr>' detail in expert fashion, thus pro­viding an enjoyable evening for the hundreds who annually pay this testimonial to the foot­ball team. Bert Metzgcr from Chicago was on hand for the banquet, after visiting with his son who is a student here. 
Members of the 1930 class will be especially pleased to hear of the great success of Dick SttUhaa's new book yotrc Dame. U you haven't seen it, get a copy. Holt and Company is the publisher. You will find it a very sensible ac­count of Notre Dame as it appeared to Dick dur­ing our years in school and in the years since. 
Joe Butler, sales manager of Air Products Equipment company in Chicago, was a campus visitor this fall . . . Joe Morrisse>- of Cincinnati told me that Gus Bondi was elected President of the Cincinnati Undenvritcrs association for the coming year . . . Kozie Kozak ^vas present at all fi>otball games performing his usual functions . . . Vernon "Buck" Slack (safety engineer, Oliver Corp.) and Fran Mcssick, now with a manufac­turing company in Goshen, Indiana, were seen at all the ball games last fall. 
Wish BiU Fink, John Rocap and Bob Eggeman would write in a report on other areas of Hoosierland. Further points in Indiana could well be covered for news by Judge Lensing of E\-ansviIIe, Walt Stanton of Gary, Paul Kleiser of Teire Haute, Charley Esola of East Chicago, Art Kirk of Rush\-illc, Tom Mcdiand of Logans­port, Mike Sbanahan of Marion, Bob Sloan of Ga; City and Larry O'Connor of Lafayette. 
In New York and New England Tim Toome^* and Bus Rcdgate - have been capably covering those news beats, but they arc pleading for help from the rest of you eastern pundits. We would have broader coverage if reports were filed by Dick Bk»f of Oneida, Fred DcLany of SjTacuse, George Doyle of Buffalo, John Flanagan of New-

The Notre Dame Alumnus 

 von Faulhaber of Munich and Hans Ehard, 
reading pt^lic appreciate the good professor's fine portrayal of our glorious Alma Mater. The meeting and Dick's presence brought out the largest gathering of the 'SOers in any one spot since the reunion. 
"Jolu Moran, formerly of Oak Park, III., who was recently transferred to the Rochester, N. Y., office of the All State Insurance Company. John has grayed a bit (but who hasn't). He still looks in good enough conditxaa to chase those long flies in the outfield as he did from 1928 to '30. 
"Warren Fogd, who finally made a meeting after a long absence said he was with the legal division of the Federal Department of Commerce here in New York City. He just returned from a \*acation in Canada with his wife and two daughters. While there he risited Jobi Motx. 
"Larry Cronio came out from Paterson, "Sew Jersey-
John Nanovic, energetic magazine editor, came to appraise the talent of his fellow author. He inquired about another literary whiz and St. Mary's Alumnus, Arch Horiey, who has not been seen at our meetings in many years. (John, Arch and myself each worked for a year at St. Mary's) 
George Winkler, the ^rarehouse and moving van "tycoon" informed me his oldest daughter will be graduated from high school this mid­year, and will enter college. The sons and fiaughters of our class members are really growing "Up. 
^Tam Bradley, Joe Kdly, Tun O'Roorite and Jim Frid made up the rest of the representa­tives of our class. 
After the formal meeting u-as over several of the boys went to a "chuck wagon" where stories real and fantastic were told covering those golden years —1926 to 1930. Present at this gab fest were Join Moraa, Joe Kdly, Jokwy Boras, 'SI, Fhn Oarlc '31. BiU *Tiirk» Kdly, '28, and yours truly. We covered every subject in the book. One of the best ones toM by Johnny Bums' was his default of the Golden Glo\*es Championship in 1^8. 
The eastern basdiall trip in 1928 was another interesting tale and it brought into the picture the names of many grand guys, Joe Lordi, Joe Palermo, Join Bfcvaa and Harry Francts^ who made the club as regulars their sophomore year. The late Ed WaUi troimced Harvard on that trip 20-1 and Jake Jadiym, '29, beat Amherst in an 11-inntng 1-0 shutout before a large gather^ ing of his hometown frienc£s from nearby West­field, Mass. 
How do ^ve know so much about the eastern trip? Several of us traveled in whole or part with the team as players, reporters, press agents and talent scouts and witnessed the contests at "minimum cost." 
"Other names which bobbed up at this fanning bee were dud e Driscon, Patsy Hastings, Bill O'Malley, Jolm McMorray, Hoc ^ Snuth, Sfnkc E^Jaad, Gene Maboney, Joe Steplwa, Jim Mc-Mmray and of course every tenant in Sophomore Hall during the year 1927-28 when Father Mnl­catre's Wildcats ruled the campus. Any chal­lengers? 
"Best \wshes to all my friends in school." 
Mrs. Jim Lcaliy, Hffin, O., sent us a snapshot of their seven wonderful youngsters, which group, incidentally, won Jim first prize at the 1950 reunion. She wTites: 
'*Did you ever try to get seven youngsters to sit still all at once? If you did you can under­stand why I have been one year ans^v-ering your last letter. AVhcn the photographer gave up downtown I decided I'd try myself so here it is 
— I've seen better but this will have to do. "Otir children are: 
Patricia J. - 14 Susan Eliz. .I I Colleen Marie — . 8 Dan'l Edward — . 12 Timothy Joseph . 9 Theresa Louise -. 3 Shannon Rosanne . 5 

(SECRETARY'S NOTE: Mother Leahy listed them that way not through any favoritism, but to identify them in the accompanying photo­graph. See page 22.) 
**As for news about Alumni I can't say too much. Wc usually see Bob Moore each summer in Buffalo but we didn't get dovm last summer. We do see Dan and Jack Cannon once in a burgh, Don Fullem of Utica^ John McCarthy of Pittsford, Howie Smith of Mt. Vernon, Clayton \Voodruf! of Rochester and £d Ellsworth of Brooklyn. 
New England spot news could be filled in by George D. Shay up in Maine, Dr. Francis Hand of New Hampshire, Leo McAIoon in Rhode Island, John Kellcher and Charley Schwartz of Afassachusetts. 
LETTERS —FOR INSTANCE Paul Farmer, exec with Interstate Glass, gets himself comfortably propped in a chair and then lets go with pen, as follows: **That rare mood is upon me, when I finally sit down and dash off a letter to anyone. I am thoroughly ashamed of my negligence, but do nothing about Jt. **If this note may seem hard to understand it is because I have my teeth tn the glass, my feet upon the coffee table (ever^'one else has retired) and am writing in the most relaxed posi­tion I know of — using one of my sons* Motor Repair Manuals as a desk on my lap. "I'll be honest when I say you have forced me to write this, and I think your method has merit. "First— to correct a previous issue of the ALUMNUS, I do not have a son in Pre-med, who is a sharp student; I have TWO sons at ND —• Paul, Jr., is a Junior in Commerce and Bill is a Junior in Architectural Engineering. No, they're not twins; Paul, Jr., was out a year, due to a late transfer from Biology. **.And to make the record complete Marl-Juan is a Junior at St, Joseph's Academy and Nanc>­a sophomore, while Michael Patrick (DYNA­^IITE) is laboring in the fourth grade in the new St. Mary's Campus School. "My second, but most important reason for wanting to WTite is to pen a few meagre words of praise and appreciation for the fine job done by yourself and the committee at the reunion last year. I'm not proficient enough with the w'ords to properly describe all the enjoyable re­actions I experienced. "But one outstanding ob5er\*ation: the complete and immediate disappearance of reser\*e as each new arrival walked up to the registration table in Aforrissey and were the recipients of a hand­shake and back-thumptng, and the old nicknames ^vere yelled back and forth. "The other observation — how the years melted aii'ay as we talked to each other, the faces came back more clearly, and that period of 20 years previous seemed only a few months past. Mere words are futile, the experience can only be jusdfied by attendance and I regret more of the old gang were not there as everyone I've talked to seemed to get the same enjo>-ment I did. "I especially enjoyed hearing the Ohs and Ahs from the men who were back for the first time 
since '30 and had heard of the many additions and improvements, but had not seen them. I feel privileged that for the past 15 years I have lived in sight of the Dome and have seen the development of the present campus through each stage. 
"I made inquiries about several of the '30 gang last year, but was disappointed in not learning much about several, although it was pleasing to read Zeno Staudt's letter in the Sep­tember-October issue of the ALUMNUS. I in­quired about Judy Gilberta and John (Stinky) O'Ncil, who were two doors west of 150 Sopho­more Hall «-hcre I roomed ivith Kennedy Jones 
— next to the chapel, into which Father Mike Mulcaire rolled us in the morning. 
"On a quick trip through Michigan and Wis­consin in August I made a phone call in Eau Claire (Wis.) and got the right Gilbertson the first time. Had a fine visit with his wife, Judy. They have four girls and one boy and Gil is with the local power company. 
"Incidentally, I enjoy Tim Toomey*s letters in the ALUMNUS, as he mentions so many of the gang. I was pleased to read of Father Jim Rizer, Tim O'Rourke, etc. Bo Rkhards* letter u'as a masterpiece. His coverage of the country and news of alumni ^vas tops. 
"George O'Malley is another in the ageless category, except for a slightly higher forehead. Otherwise, there is no perceptible change. 
"Well, Dev, I've outdone myself by all pre­nous standards. It has taken a year to get this away and I find it didn't hurt a bit so will try again sometime. 
"Should any of the gang get to town I can be reached at the Interstate Paint & Glass Co., or at 1628 E. Douglas Rd. (we used to run cross-country past the woods where I now live). Say hello to Don — hope he's in good health by now, used to see him often at the Corby St. 
A. & P. "In closing, I want you to know I think you're doing a marvelous job as Class Secretary." 
Tim Toomey is in New York, where news is made and ^v'hcn it concerns Notre Dame he covers it with the thoroughness of a New York Times reporter. Here's his letter from New York: 
**Your appeal . for members of the class to emerge from their respective shells is bringing results. If all the "lads of 30" respond in the same manner as Sam "Bo" Richards and others did in the last issue of the ALUMNUS, we will have to publish a special edition for our class. 
"Jim McGoldrick, '39,- opened up the 1951-52 season of the Notre Dame Club of New York at the Biltmorc on Sept. 19, 1951, with Jack La* velle, '28, "man about town" as M. C and Prof. Richard Sulli^'an as guest speaker. Dick gave an interesting description of his latest book "Notre Dame" and we all sincerely hope all the 
Dr. George N. Shuster, Michael Cardinal 
Minister President of Bavaria on Shuster's retirement as Land Commissioner 
of that cotmtry. while. Dan ivas a big help to us in getting Tim 
thing goes okay my older boy will be completing his Freshman year at that time. 
"I guess that is all for the present Dcverc, say hello to Frank Moran and Didc Su]]i\-an if yotx see them for me." 
1931 
James T. Doyle, Secreury 
6457 N. Bdl A\-enue 
Chicago 45, lUinois 
Judging from the cross country correspondence 
I have received, the unusually midwest winter 
weather must be pre^'alcnt all over the countr>' 
and has made our classmates do some deep 
hibernating. 
I tvrote Father Bourke Motsett asking htm to 
say solemn High Masses for the repose of the 
souls of Ray &fannix and of Dr. Tbaddeus Gorac­
ze%vski and received the following reply from 
him: 
"Thanks for your letter enclosing two High 
Mass Stipends. I appreciate them, and you 
notice that both of them will be sung this 
month. I remember Ray Mannix, but not the 
other classmate. Enclosed you will find the 
Mass cards. 
I didn't get to the reunion because my assist­ant was killed the week before in an auto acci­dent. Jolm BdloD is a parishioner of mine and a good one. He and I and some other local alumni went to the Purdue game. Joe Meiizler has a state job in Springfield and gets home occasionally. Ralph Dalton was home on fur­lough from the Na\-y last weekend and was at Mass on Sunday. I tinv^ted him in for breakfast but he bad a previous engagement. Jim Kearney is also very good about sending Mass stipends. Wc can say the Masses here it-ithin a month and in. Washington it takes a lot longer than that. If you ever see Don OTocde tell him to drop me a penny postcard before the Government throws them out. I used to hear from him occasionally. Again many ^ thanks and if you ever have an occasion to come to Danx'ille you and your good wife would be most ivelcomc at St. Paul's. 
Don OToole recently spent some time in Danville uith Father Bourke Afotsett and i%Tttes as follows: 
'**Last Saturday I drove down to St. Paul's Church in Danxille, Illinois, and visited Father BoariPB Motsett. The visit was so very inter­esting that I thought I would write and tell you about it in detail. 

'*DanviIIe is a city of 40,000 people, a very pleasant city with a number of beautiful homes. TTiere are only 5^000 Catholics. They are served by St. Patrick's Church and St. Paul's Church. St. Patrick's Church has an eight-grade grammar school, to which Bourke Afotsett's St. Paul's Church sends three busloads of children daily. In St. Paul's Parish is Schlarman High School, a dif>cesan high school which is admin­istered by Bourke and the pastor of the other Church. 
"St. Panil's Church is a moderate-sized church in the better section of the City. It is beauti­fully decorated and spotlessly maintained. The rectory adjoining it is very attractive and fea­tures one very large recreation room in which Bourke and I and his assistant had a very interesting ^^it. It is well-furnished and per­fectly maintained, and Bourke is most comfortable. 
"He is the same enthusiastic Bourke Afotsctt of old. You half expect to see him %vearing a monogrammed sweater every time you turn around instead of the long-buttoned cassock. He tackles his parish problems with the same ter­rific enthusiasm with which be solved the prob­lems of the track stars and the St. Mary's girls in the old days on the Campus. His congrega­tion is growing daily, and it is obvious that he is beloved by all. 
"His real pride is Schlarman High School. This consists primarily of a fine, old stone resi­dence on the principal boulevard running across the town. It is on a high piece of ground overlooking a very beautiful lake. It was ac­quired some five or six years ago by the Arch­diocese, and remodeled into a high school without seeming to have changed the ^pearance of the beautiful residence that it originally was. The grounds are spacious and perfectly maintained. 
"The classrooms are spotless and the facilities are more than adequate.. In back of the school is a fine athletic field with a grandstand and two outdoor tarvia-surfaced basketball courts. In back of the school also is a large old barn into a private school at Worthlngton, O., in August} for which wc arc very grateful. 
"Timothy is our miracle baby. He suifered measles at 17 months, and had sleeping sickness 2 ^ years. He's now 9 and through a lot of hard work, prayers and doctors, all of ^v'hich God has been good enough to send us, he's coming along quite well, although still in need of special schooling. To Dan, special thanks. 
**Jim is quite busy \«th his engineering work 
but we still had time to sec Southern Methodist 
last Oct. 13 and Purdue Oct. 27. We brought 
along Pat and Dan. 
"For a bit of *32 news — Dan B. McCarton 
has a new boy, Brian Dennis, bom Sept. 6. 
Maureen Avas one year old July 28. Dan's a 
bus>' man. It's time to get luncli for my brood 
now, so that's all." 
Kari Brennan, man-in-motion for W. T. Grant 
Co. sent in a nice Christmas present from Rock­
ford, 111.: 
"Received your Christmas Greetings and thanks for remembering me. Your request for news of the class of '30 finds me all tied up \viih Christ­mas business but will do what I can. Sam Rldiards, my old neighbor in Sophomore Hall, certainly sets an example for the rest of us with his swell letter in the recent issue of the ALUM­NUS. Sam certainly went all out to bring every­one up to date so will try to send whatever news I have that may be of interest to evcr>'one­
"My family: my ^%'ife, Grace, and two boys, Joe and Tom, have been here in Rockford for three years now, Joe, the older boy, at 15 years is at St. Thomas High School here and is actively engaged in basketball with the Sophomore team. The younger boy, Tom, is at St. Peter's grammar school — 7th grade. 
Wc expected to spend Thanksgiving with Tom Frost and his family but inclement weather forced 3 postponement of this trip at the last minute. Tom's family and mine have been making Thanks­giving an annual get-together since both of us landed in this part of the country about six years ago. Tom has a family to be proud of, four boys and two girls. We really missed out on getting to Madison for that day because Marie, Tom*s wfc, really puts on a Thanksgi\-ing dinner that you dream about. Tom is in the farm equipment "business in Madison and from all indications will be set to retire when he is fifty. 
"Have had some correspondence \rith Ed Red­mond. He is president of GoUcraft, Inc., in Chi­cago and makes about 90 per cent of the golf clubs that arc used in this country-. Ed lives in Milwaukee and we see each other ever%* once in a while. £d has done very well lor himself and the only thing is that his golf clubs haven't helped my game any. 
"I sec Tom Keegaa in Rockford here quite often. Tom lives a short distance from me. He is married and the father of two nice little girls, Tom was just made Master of Chancery Federal Court ^Vestem Division. He is very active in legal circles here in town and is very much in demand as a speaker in this part of the country. 
"I haven't heard from Dan Sulli^-an in years despite se%'eral letters to him. I notice his pic­ture in the Baltimore Club news once in a ^^'hile and Dan certainly looks dignified with his grey hair. 
**Gil Kirwan seems to have dropped out of sight entirely. Xo one seems to have heard from 

- him in quite a while. Skip Kexmelley is in the same boat but we do see Skip at the reunions. 
"I used to see Denny Shanahan quite often when I was around New York. That was quite awhile ago though. Haven't heard from him though in quite some time. 
"Saw Joe Cullcn the last time I was home on vacation. He is practicing law in Horncll, New York. 
"The last I heard of Don Sullivan was that he was seen in Florida and as I understand it he is the outstanding contractor in Massachusetts. 
"I see Al Monte quite often. He is the comp­troller for the Blue Cross. Wc attend St. Peter's and %ve often n m into one another at Sunday Mass. 
"I get into Detroit every so often to visit my brother, John, '27, and usually get in touch with Boo-Boom SulU\'an. Jim is still located in Royal Oak and it looks to me he has all the tmder­taking business in that fair city sewed up pretty tight. I visited his funeral home on one of my visits there and it is really something to see. Jim has been very successfid. 
'^The above neu-s is about all that I have. I haven't heard a thing about Jim Skahan in ages. Frost and 1 were wondering whatever, happened to him. 
"As for m^'self, personally, I am still with the 
W. T. Grant Co., managing their store here in Rockford. t was transferred here from Madison, Wis., about three years ago. I hope I can make thjs my permanent home but in my business one never knows. I have been with this outfit twenty years now and the time has really passed quickly. 
"I usually get down to one of the games in the Fall and this year saw the Indiana game but failed to see anyone from the class of '30. I am looking forward to our Silver Anniversary re­union. This one really should be something. I expect to he back if at all possible and if every-

Joe Bri^, '27, discusdng art layout for jacket of his new book, '*Thc Devil You Say." AI Croft, artist for Bruce Publishing Co., did the art work. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

which has been excellently remodeled into a rec­reation building where Bourke, you may be sure, stages some swell parties for the boys and girls in his school. 
"The amaang thing is that in this city of 40,000 people ivith only 5,000 Catholics, both Catholic Churches, the grade school, the commu­nity house at Bourkc's parish, and the high school are all free and clear of debt. It is a real tribute to the enthusiasm and the business management of Bourke and his associates. 
"All of us from Notre Dame will be really thrilled to know that Bourke has as an athletic coach a man who is simply and wholly devoted to his work. He makes certain that every child in school is active in some sport, and actively encourages and coaches them in golf, bowling, square dancing, football, basketball, or any other sport that can interest a high school boy or girl. 
"With the schfKiI only five years old, and only 125 boys to choose from, he has developed a football team which has already defeated Spauld­ing Institute, one of the oldest boys* schools in the State of Illinois. I did not meet the man, but if he is as devoted as Bourke and his as­sistant say he is—devoted to the development of sport and athletics in high school children—then he is certainly fortunate to have made a connec­tion with our old friend and wild enthusiast, Bourke Motsett. 
"The whole day of \'isiting with Bourke and his assistant in the rectory, having lunch with them, and touring the beautiful high school, is like a series of scenes from "Going My Way." If you or any of the other fellows feel jaded or want to sec a good demonstration in business management, I can imagine no better experience than to make a trip to Danville and to call on Bourke. In fact, I would love to see a bunch of us get together some day and drive down and surprise him at Sunday Mass, and take him out to dinner. 
"I'm going back again very soon. Would you 
like to go with me?" 
Bob Cunningham calls me regularly whenever he gets a bit of news. The hea\i"y snow has confined Bob to his home for the past month or so. He called to tell mc that Bert Mctzger is now acquainted with Jerry Crowley as Sales Manager for the O'Brien Paint and Varnish Co. Bob also mentioned that Tom Conley would be returning to Chicago. He also offered to take over a job which might pro%'ide some interesting statistics for the men ol 1931, but will require your cooperation. 
Bob will be in charge of Vital Statistics for the 
class of 1931 and is interested in tabulating the 
prolific tendencies of our classmates. His address 
is 4451 W. Dickens Avenue, Chicago, 111. He 
told me that both Jack Elder and Spike McAdams 
have seven children each. I think AI Stepan 
and several others arc also in that tax bracket. 
Dr. Thad Zctowski also qualifies in that range. 
So boys, step up and be counted. 
I ran into Spike Sulli\'an in Chicago the day 
before the Michigan State Game. He was at­
tending a Petroleum Convention and planning 
on meeting Tom Monahan that night. They and 
their wives were going to the theatre and prom­
ised to call me later. Spike's Christmas card 
is explanatory. My discomfort at failure of 
Monahan or self to call you on or about Nov. 
10 could be exceeded only by your discomfort if 
we had carried out the project at the hours we 
were in situation to do it. Our minds seem to 
function in flashes. Your efforts in the ALUM­
NUS will do a lot to restore class communica­
tions. Kindest Christmas greetings and the best 
for next year. I think Spike and Tom should 
always have Paul Grant along to keep them 
in tow. 
Vera and Francis Hennebei^er attended the 
Purdue game and then came to the Sherman 
Hotel in Chicago for the weekend. He tried to 
reach me on the phone Sunday and then sent 
a postcard. I am certainly sorr\* to have missed 
you Henne particularly in view of my having had 
to skip Princeton on my trip last October. 
Being class secretary has its rewards. We got a Christmas card from my old roommate Clark Bcnkendorf who is now in charge of the Mc-Donough County Municipal Tuberculosis Sanito­rium at Bushnell, Illinois. Clark, try to send me some news about yourself and Dr. Phil Gra­liam who is down your ^vay. You might get Bob Jackson to take a few minutes to send a note also. In fact, if the chain letter starts rolling, we might hear from Kerre Angenmer, 

January-February, 1952 


SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
M. J. FREEMAN, '33 

A specialist in the fields of crimin­ology and child and adult psychology. Dr. Freeman is a 1933 graduate of the University. He did post-graduate work at University of Southern California. 
At present a clinical psychologist engaged in private practice in Los Angeles, Dr. Freeman had for many years been engaged in psychological rehabilitation of inmates of various state hospitals in California. Prior to these engagements he was attached to the Los Angeles County Probation office in adult and juvenile criminal courts. 
Dr. Freeman has developed a stand­ard test for aid in psychological clinics and written several papers for the American Journal of Psychotherapy. He is a native of South Bend, a brother of Gary Freeman, '31. 
Bob's roommate in the third floor of Morrissey Hall. 
Myron Hershficld sent a card ^vith a note that he ^vould like a good sessloa with the gang. Maybe I'll be in shape to make the next reunion. Kindest regards to you and yours. Also had a card from Tom Monahan and Bourke Motsett thanking me for sending Don 0*Tof^e down to Danville. Fred Smnt has been made City Chair­man for the ND Foundation in Nashville, Tcnn. 
Mrs. T. C. Goraczewslu sent a note of thanks for our ^fas< offered by Father Bourice MotaeU. "Thank you most sincerely for the Mass intention for my beloved husband. Dr. Thaddeus C. Gor­aczewslu and for your kind expression of sym­pathy. It is most gratifying that one of his classmates will celebrate the Mass. I am deeply grateful." 
On January 5 the Notre Dame Club of Chicago held its annual Bal Noel. In attendance were Al Stepan^ Club President, Gil Seaman, Club Secretary, lUy COIBM, > k fttwu, EMie WLjm^ GcM VaUcc^ Dr. Ho d Xdowila aad mysetf as. representatives ol the class ol *31. The dab has made wonderful progrea chiriiv the past year and is chic directly to the nntirisg efforts of Al Stcpaa. 
I %vish to extcad wishes for a happy, hfotf aad pro^crous New Year to the men of '31 u d to thank those who cooperated so well during the past year in sending information for our cofamw in the ALUMNUS. At the reunion, many prom­ised to start sending a note or two each year. Now is the time to put that promise into tiGTect and we will ccmtinue to have a fresh, iatercstiag column with each issue of the ALUMNUS. 
20 YEAR 
REUNION 
JUNE 6-7-8 

Ja m K. CoOun, SecretaiT 
17 Triangki Aveme 
DaTton 9, OUo 
Cliff FMdeU has had a scries of meeting* with Hcib Giorgio and writes that they have plans to make our twentieth reunion next June the very best. Very soon each member of the class will receiw the first of several items oi mail concerning it, and from then on fuH In^ formation will be available to evxryone. It is hoped that this will be out before the next issue of the ALUMNUS reaches you. 
In the meantime, how about each of you making your own plans to attend? From all in­dications we shall have a record turnout, and the University is making every effort to show the alumni a good time. It is scheduled for the second weck-.end in June. 
Jade Wittliff sent a very unusual Christmas card from Port Huron showing pictures of his five sons and two daughters. He further wrote: 
"I am still up in Port Huron. 'I'married a S t Mary's girl, Margaret Hcancy, '32, and we both hope to get down to ND and St. Mary's for the 20-year reunions. How time does fly— I remember as a student we thought that 20-year men were old. It's funny to find out we were Avrong!" . 
Among others who have recently expressed that they will be on hand at the reunion are Doa Ryan who writes from 1765 Good Ave., Des Plaines, 111., Ted Halpm, Bob I.ee, and Jim Bosco. 
Among recent changes of address are: Aivold Weiner to 433 Arthur St., Gary, Indiana; Jolm Davis to 1729 North Front, Harrisburg, Pa.; Jokm Kramer to 5311 Rockhill Road, Kansas City, Mo.; Rev. Lawrence BroestI, CLS.C., to Alumni Hall, Notre Dame; tagene Coacelly to Old Field Road, Gieenlawn, N. Y.; Bntker BonavcBtnte Foley to Community House, UND; Brother Benoit Frigon to St. Edward High School, 13300 Detroit, Lakewood, Ohio; Neil Hnrley to IMS W. Washington, Chicago 7; Rev. Midiad Jednakmnki to Msgr. Coyle Higfa School, 61 Summer St., Taunton, Mass.; Gcolge Monai^iaB to 61 Erie Ave., Coming, N. Y.; Joha Fkroae to 45t Park Ave., Buffalo, N. Y.; Bnther Eymard (Safamaa) to Dnjarie HiD, UND; Rev. Alfred C. Send to Aven Pedro de Valdivia 1423, Santiago, Chile; Jim Warddl to 4509 The Paseo, Kansas City, Mo.; Ho b Wduka to 86 E. Ninth St., Clifton, N. J.; EDiwoeth Cos, mail returned unclaimed; BnMkr Edward (KuaWinn) to Community Infirsmy, UND; Caiit. Joe E«n« to Military History Sec­tiM^ GHQ, FE a APO 500, San Frandseo; OjOHaaader Bob Lee to 23 S. Hudson St., Ar­lington, Va.; Vance UUmeyer to 555 Glen Drive, Madison 5, Wise; Rev. Aathooy J. VfAa, C.S.C., to Srinager Bouse, 28 Tindahahar Lane, Dacca, East Bengal, Pakistan; Ralpk Witt to 1301 
S. 20th St., Apt. C-12, Birmingham, AI*.; aad CbaiBa ZBak to 406 D Street, N. WOkobon, 
N. C. 
I'll see you at the Big 20th Reunion. 
1933 
Joseph D. A. McCabc, Secretan* Rosary Odlcge Rixcf Forest, 111. 
Probably one of the proudest families in South Bend today is that of Ueut. Edward L. Bei^an, career policeman, uho was graduated with honors in November from the Federal Bureau of Inves­tigation national academy in Washington. £d began his career in J939 as a member of the first South Bend police school. His present as­signment is as chief of the records division of the South Bend police department. He lives in that city with his family, consisting of Mrs. Bcrgai) and their three children. 
From Phil Faherty: 
'*I have had rather a hectic but eventually happy year. I was ordered to active duty in the Army as of Fcbruarj', 1951. There v%"as a delay granted me to September. A daughter .^nne Marie was bom to us on July 26, our second child, our boy being nine years old, and finally on July 28, my orders to report to duty were cancelled and I was discharged from the .Army." 
Letter to Joe McCabc: 
**You probably won't remember me. but I re­member you ivcll in Sorin back in 1933. I had just won the Breen Medal and you had distin­guished yourself with many wonderful stories in the University* publications, and we met one day in Sorin for a talk; probably tlic last time I saw you as we graduated. What memorable da>-s with men like Billy Su]li\-an, Marchie Schwartz and others in our role of great graduates. 
TIic scene has changed to a Spring planting 
. over the world. I ^vcnt on in Tlicology vvith a deep interest in history* and geographies, and the fruition came when I saw what Von Haushofcr did with his mighty might of the German Machine with Hitler as a Front, as Father Walsh describes in his wonderful book, 'Total Power.* He was my guest in Berlin while I was senior Chaplain there and he was at the Nuremberg Trials. Now I am engaged in a Spring Planting; not the flowers of the field or buds of the season, not new rice, but the plant­ing of Democracy in this forlorn, war-torn land of carnage here in Korea. I have been here for a long time; first the gallant 24th came whom I was with when the war broke on Jime 25 last year, and then coming to the Seventh the now famous Indion Amphibious I^anding in September of last year, later the Iwon Landing in Novem­ber, another amphib landing, the Yalu River came in 24 degree below zero, and I had a Mass on the River in 15 belovv zero on the day after we captured it; looking across to Manchuria as the Chalice was raised in the open air across from Manchuria. Then came the terrible Chosin Reservoir where I as Senior Division Chaplain lost four to Missing in Action, two wounded and evacuated. No one will ever know the rigors of this terrible campaign . . . the evac­uation from Hungnam is so realistic that no movie or drama could ever depict it, and we surted again until I saw the famous 14 Feb. assault at Hoensong, the famed spring drive on April 24 when we faced the enemy directly, and again on May 18 when the Masses used bugles and Banzai attacks against us and the Second Division. The casualties were heavy, but we counterattacked the day they ran out of of­fensive \igor, and now we have won back all the real estate .. . it is devastating to see bodies piled up on the side of the roads as we move on and on into fonx-ard positions to pursue the little enemies dictated from Moscow. 
Yes, I have been wounded, decorated, so what! I would be less a Notre Dame Man if I figured the cost in energy when so muclt in the world is at stake. It is a noble and adventuresome life and I have my 17 chaplains in fighting Irish spirit. I only wanted to write to say: keep the 1933 men in the news and stress alwa^'s the need for a continncd fight against an implacable foe that lurfcs tiot just in Korea, but in our sdiools, in oof factories, our slums, in our high places of alleged renoH-n. If only the UN could meet for one week in a Rice Paddy where we pitch our tents, as Father (Commander) Kelly of the First Marine Division told me in my tent this afternoon they would have a different \iew. Spring planting not at Lake Success and the Waldorf Astoria, but here where tlicre arc no remaining houses, nothing but volcanic hills, mined' trails, rice paddies and lonesome river beds. Ask the GI from Korea. He could tell 
CARL J. SEXGER, '37 
Appointment of Carl J. Senger as Director of Internal Control for War­ren Petroleum Corporation, effective January 1, 1952, has been announced by W. K. Warren, president. Senger also will continue to hold the office of Assistant Treasurer. 
The appointment follows authoriza­tion by the Executive Committee for a system of internal control to handle organization, procedure and manage­ment. 
Senger was bom at LawTence, Kan­sas. He graduated from the Univer­sity in 1937 with a Bachelor of Science degree, maj'oring in accounting. Short­ly after graduation Senger joined the accounting staff of Haskins & Sells in the Tulsa office. Three years later he joined the accounting department of the Warren coqDoration. 
Senger has been active in accounting circles since moving to Tulsa. He is a past president of the Petroleum Ac­countants Society of Oklahoma; past president and a director of the Tulsa chapter of the Institute of Internal Auditors; past vice president and a di­rector of the National Association of Cost Accountants, and currently is chairman of Regions 4 and 5 of the Finance and Accounting Committee of the American Petroleum Institute. 
He also is past president of the Notre Dame Club of Oklahoma, and is a member of the Knights of Columbus. Senger married Miss Bemice Becker of Tulsa on December 27, 1941. They have four sons and one daughter. The family home is at 1710 South Trenton. 
a Congress or a Parliament In staid I.ondon a message that would shock the world if they would listen .. . but of course they have never slept in the rain or experienced sleeping in a winter sack at 28 below zero. You can't do that and go on week-end cruises to Key West (for a rest—what is that?) 
With kindest wishes from a fightin* padre. . . 
l^faurice E. Powers, CS.C. 
Lt. Col. Di\i»on Chaplain 
7th Inf. Division on the front. 
This comer has received not one but two— you'll pardon the expression—letters • since we last coyly curtsied at you, and hope being what it is, we live in expectation of^ someday getting another one. Some fine issue we might even come up with three letters to hang out on the line, this prospect being offered in the same general mood as the man who buys a Chevrolet dreaming that some day he can afford a Cadillac. 
Since Chevrolet has been mentioned, let's get right to a letter from a man who knows a lot about that car—Tom (Kitty) Gorman, sales pro­motion manager for Chevrolet in the Chicago zone. Tom testifies as follows: 
"Seems strange writing you when we live so near to one another. But it seems when we are both residents of a large "Metro" area vtc are farther removed than wc would be were wc located in distant towns. 
"Left home this morning having read the latest issue of the ALUMXUS. Down here on promotion of the CM film 'Let's Get Out of the Muddle.' It has to do with General Motors' Highway Improvement Programs. 
**After reading your column in the ALUMXUS I thought how t^TJically negh'gent I*d been—so having the time thought I'd help you out. 
"As you know—after leaving the USXR (I hope I have) in December '45 I joined ChevTolct Division of GM. Now I'm sales promotion man­ager for Chevrolet in the Chicago zone. 
**Quite often I run into Marty Lenske^- and in fact we'll be with him tomorrow at the St. Philip's Alwnni dinner at the Lake Shore Club. Marty is doing splendidly at Sears and lias a wonderful family. He lives in Oak Park. Marty and I, you know, went to Philip's and grade school together at St. Catherine's in Oak Park and then to ND. 
"Had a call from Bud Groves (FBI) the other day and he, Kcwpie Sfaennan and I plan to lunch together soon. I'll miss you at the Club's Communion Breakfast Sunday. Have to be at the Hotel Sherman, preparing to announce our '52 model to the dealers on Monday. 
"Had to miss the football rally and the Club party this year as I v\-as out of town. Hope to make all the doings during the '52 calendar. You and the rest of the directors are doing an ex­cellent Job. 
**Off and on I run into Moe Lee, Ed Vv-zral and a few others. Not often enough, however. 
"Well, Joe, I haven't much news. You and the Mrs. could call me (I could call you, too) at Village 8-5078 and vve could spend the evening together. Good Luck." 
Kitty Gorman 
Many thanks, Tom, for a swell letter. Maybe some of the men you mentioned might like to answer you through this column .. . I hope? 
Another fine letter was received from Father Jim Donnelly, CS.C , who is laboring in the vineyards of Texas. He is stationed at St. Helen's Church in Georgetown, Texas. Father Jim's v*'armly welcomed letter reads as follows: 
"Arrived back from three Masses in three towns a few minutes ago to find the Nov.-Dcc. ALUMNUS and in it your address. Believe mc, Joe, you and your loved ones have been in my prayers and I needed only your address so I could thank you for tlie plug you and Tighe Woods gave me a few issues ago. 
**Thanks, Joe for a thorough and brave tr>*. Three men wrote me as a consequence of read­ing your column and Larry Sexton's letter started 'Can ytm be the guy . . . ' 
**If I can ever be of service to you Joe, please give me a chance to try. God bless you! .\ luqipy and holy 1952 to you and to all the McCabes." 
Grarias, Father Jim. Inasmuch "as he men­tioned Larry Sexton's letter to him, and wc hap­pen to have a copy of it, we thought it might provide inqjiration for other card-players (win or Iiwe) and friends of Jim to follow Larr>*'s suit if we printed it herewith: 
"Your recent letter Avritten to "Hghe Woods and printed in the ALUMNUS by our capable class secretary Joe McCabe interests me to this extent: Are you the Jim Donnelly who did such a capable job of making such hard points as four, ten, five and nine in the little crap games that we used to have? Joe suggests cutting a poker pot but I feel that he should have indi­cated that cuts from other sources would be accepted. 

*^The cnclfKcd check for $10.00 represents a cut off my winnings that I was able to collect last Saturday when the great Notre Dame team actually scared a pretty tough Indiana team out o( a victory. Seriously, I hope and pray that your efforts will lead you to full accomplishments of the task that you have undertaken. 
"Maybe if Joe would mention in the column that you are the former crapshooter (if you are) fellows like Jage Bauer, the Ross brothers of Brooklyn, Eli Abraham Shaheen, Mo Lee and others would come to your immediate assistance. 
"If you ever find it convenient to be in the vicinity Mrs. Sexton and I would be pleased to furnish you the best wc have at any time." 
Letters like these represent, wc think, the true spirit of the university — putting the "spirit" in "spiritual," wlicre it belongs for Notre Dame men. 
With all this unaccustomed correspondence, per­haps there isn't space for the usual McCabe monologue, but we'd like to put in another plug for personal prayer. A passage in a recent book sticks in the mind. It's called "The Rest­less Flame," by de Wohl, and is a fictionalized biography of Saint Augustine. In the good saint's early and unfettered days, more gusty tlian august, his mother, Monica, spent a major part of cver>' 24 hours praying for her son. 
The passage we remember describes her as— this isn't exact, but close as we can recall it— "shooting her uill like an arrow toward Heaven." Alonica put all of her energy into the prayer . . . a good example to imitate in our own petitions, for whatever intentions we seek. 
One of my prayers is that I'll get more letters from the audience. Is there a correspondent in the house? 
Let's hear from YOU in '52! Joe McCabe 
1935 
Franklyn C. Hfichreiter, Secretar\­1327 Fentwood Road Baltimore, Md. 
Here wc go again with practically nothing to write about. One letter has come through— from Frank Holahan which wc are going to give you below. We were right in our suspicions that he did not make the Navy weekend. 
It is good to discover that people read our stuff "from time to time." Our Christmas card front Bill Coyne, et al, proved it. He couldn't let our crack about him go unnoticed, so he returned the sarcasm with his Christmas greetings. 
A few Christmas cards came through from Illinois, Ohio, New York, New Jersey, Texas, Pennsylvania, Missouri, and Louisiana. A number of others were conspicuous in their absence. We would like to know what's happening out in the provinces. 
Here is the December 14 news sheet from Holahan: "You certainly got your squib regarding the Navy week-end to the ALUMNUS in a hurry. 
 wrote you last March regarding our football junkets in the fall of 1950, and you held up the letter six months before I saw any references to it in the magazine. I would have written this letter right after the Xaiy game, but I knew I was going to be in the Philadelphia area last week so I held it up in order to give you a report on any of the ND fellows I might see there. 
"We appreciated your making of the rcscr\*a­tions at the Sheraton Belvedere, but at the last minute it ^^'as impossible for us to use them. As soon as I found out that we would not get over to Baltimore that night I called the hotel and cancelled the rescr\'ations so I am sure it did not inconvenience the hotel people. 
As you'kncw, we had to be in Washington tliat Friday afternoon, and I did not get out of the office until after six so it was not practical to tr>- to get over with you in that terrific rain­storm. Fortunately wc were able to find accom­modations at the Shoreham, and wc had a fine 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
JOSEPH R, FELDMEIER 
Presently an associate professor of 

physics in St. Thomas College, St. 
Paul, Minn., Joe Feldmeier shaped the 
Liberal Arts-Engineering program be­
tween Notre Dame and St. Thomas, 
described in a recent ALUMNUS issue. 
He received a Master of Science degree from the University in 1940, and has done extensive graduate re­search and helped put in operation the electrostatic generator now being used in the Notre Dame physics de­partment. Besides keeping up a crowded program of research in radi­ation and allied fields he has contrib­uted to technical journals, and last year received a grant-in-aid from the Research Corporation of New York. 
In 1942 he was married, to Janet Terry of Minneapolis. They have three children: Gregory, 8; Russell, 6 and Anna Margaret, 1J4. 
time at the rally there. We had a nice visit %vith Ed Krause and Father Hesburgh. 
We spent most of the evening with Tom Flynn and his w'lic and with Afr. and Mrs. Don Schet­tig of Ebensburg, Pa., Class of 1930. Scfaetti; is a prosperous hardware merchant whom I sec from time to time when I am working in Ebens­burg. While at the Shoreham we also met John Clark of Ne^v Kensington, Pa., who, I heUcvc, was in our class for a while. He is in the insurance business. 
"At the Na\7 game we saw Adrian Wackerman for a moment. He didn't look a day older than when I last saw him about 10 years ago. Wc wcTC sorry that we missed the SchoIi*s party after the game. Ned Rowan and the Brodericks told us they had a fine time. I saw New in Wilkcs-Barrc the following week-end. He is very busy as an insurance adjuster. 
"Last week I enjoyed the hospitality of the Brodericks in Norristown, Pa. Ray has a beau­tiful wife, Biarge, and two fine little boys, ages oae and five. I dad not see any other N D fellows there, bat Ray ihowed me some of the Urge housing developments in which fim "Sobm is associated with his father. While I was there the Philaddphia papers carried news regard^ a vote fraud in whidi Ray was prominently men­tioned as counsel. 
'"Louise and our two little boys made the trq» with me to the SMU game at ND which even our little Billy, five years old, enjoyed. fTyflU Gravd flew up from Louuiana for the game, and we had a good visit. He had little Camille with him. Acowding to the last count Camille now has eight youngsters. We drove on to Chicago and- Galcsburg^ where we had a pleasant evening with Jolm "Rmmdy" Fogne, who is stiU in the soft drink business there. 
"We are organizing a Central Pa. ND Club in Altoona, and I have been tagged as ^eudent. That should get it oS to a bad start. There are but few ND fellows in this area, however, those few are enthuuastic." 
As always our man Holahan has saved the day for m otu:c morel Thanks, Frank—come see us! 
How about some news from our four Vice-Presidents? Maybe if they would do some snoop-mg we might be able to get back on the beam. 
If you don't send it, we can*t wTite it. 
1936 
A. H. Mooiman, Secretary 1708 Industrial Bank Bldg. Dctmit 26, Mldiigan 
The Secretary has the sad task of reporting to the Class the death of Joseph O'Keefe Weiss, Flint, Michigan, who drow-ncd while duck hunt­ing on the last day of the Michigan season. A sudden violent sleet and snowstorm trapped Joe and a friend in a small boat on Lake Fenton and paralysed all rescue efforts. 
Art MuQmllaiid, Kalamazoo, George Canaoo and John Ftedricks, Muskegon, Bob MacDooaU, Flint, Art Cnami and Lee Moorman, Detroit, Michigan and Ralph Cardinal, Malone, New York were among the Notre Dame men who attended the funeral services. 
Many more would have done so, if it had been possible to timely notify them. The Class ^ is re­quested in appropriate Notre Dame tradition to remember Joe in their prayers. 
Pat Malloy and El Kmniow sent in nice let­ters. Ed is sales representativic for Lee Tire and Rubber Company in Southwestern New York State. A son, David, arrived Nov. 21, 1951, to join a lovely daughter, Mary Ellen. Ed's address is 17A Shirley Lane, Jamestown, New-York. Pitrick Hartingtoo MaUoy is practicing law in Tulsa, Oklahoma: address First Na­tional Building. 
Pat writes that Joe McNuIty, still smgle, stiU red-headed but no longer streamlined, heads the Cliquot Club Bottling Co., Tulsa. In 1941 when the secretary last saw Joe, the red-head w-as still streamlined but obviously not ginger ale in­clined. Malloy had a lot of nice things to say about Bin Castkaun, Walt Duncan and Joe O'Ndl and their good fortune in the Scurry County, Te-tas, oil fields, and closed with the report that Robert "PeanuU" Duffy is Uving in Grand Rapids, Michigan, OMTIS the local Royal Crown Bottling Company, and is the father of five children. 
Speculating on "Peanuts" acquiring five chil­dren is intriguing when it is recalled that while a student he appeared bored with young ladies and seemingly much preferred listening to his phonograph records and marking bridge cards. 
Ral^ rir*!-'' visited Detroit briefly and Art Cnmift arranged an informal party in the "Maize and Blue" room, a cozy quiet little hangout located at 18434 Muirland (phone num­ber on request). Ralph operated a very success­ful hardware business and said that Mike Jackley owns the Malone, New York, radio station. Wally Froahart, Ernie Gargaio, Bert Baur, Jim Sherry, Lee Moorman and Paul Sullivan had a marvelous time at the party. 
The best time was had by John H. (Hank) Ruen, '37, who just happened to drop in. Hank, who is president of Cleaners Hangers, Inc., en­tertained with songs and a \-ariety of marching and drill numbers. 
Jim Foohey, Fort Wayne, Indiana, came to town for one of the farewell parties given for Bert Baur who left New Year's Day for his <^onnecUcut estate and new* position 'with the Uarco Corporation. (As reported last time, Bert is the Eastern Sales Afanagcr of Uarco). Foohcy arrived Dec. 28 for Bert's party and stayed for 
•every party given in Detroit through Jan. 2. He looks just the same and generates the same prob­lems for his friends, particularly those who enter­tain for him. 
A\Tiat has happened to the Reunion croud who after the ''election," with glasses tilted wavcr­ingly, toasted the Secretary ^vith promises of '"fullest cooperation"? 
The score to date: 2 letters; 2 post cards. 
AI Robol is probably still in a turmoil \v-hether 
to declare his winnings to Uncle Whli-kcrs and, 
possibly is concerned also with the question 
whether he must apply for the "brokers" stamp 
pro\-idcd for by the 1951 Federal Revenue .Act, 
so his silence will be overlooked for the time 
being. 
But "here are (he letters from Woodrow Aug­ust Stillu-agon, Prial "Mike" Curran, Gene Xobin, Anton "Rax*** Herrly, the menace in liis lectlc yellow Nash convertible? To Leo Hof­schneider, Ed Dunn, the Dowagiac Flash, Bob Burke? Did the Secretary reunion witli the carefree, irresponsible, fun loving element of the class? Let's have those letters! 
Best wishes for a successful and a vcr>' Happy Xcu- Year to all. L.ee ^foorman 
1938 
Charles Callahan, Secrctar>' 
Athletic Publidty 
Xotrc Dame, Indiana 
On stationcrj' of the Ranch Motel, Route 1, Rivcrdale, Ga., comes this to Jim .Armstrong: "You probably remember me as **^'oung .Abe" back during our water-canT-'ing days. 
"I've been in Atlanta for the past nine years doing ever>*thing from managing a private club to war work. Recently I became a partner in the above business. 
"I know tlicre are many Notre Dame men traveling through this section on their way to Florida. I'd like very much to get my business a little plug in the next issue of the ALUif-NUS." 
Oscar Joe Zoss, '38 
All right, Abe, there's tlic plug. 
Alumni \v-ho >v-ish to stop for a chat 'with Abe can have some pleasant conversation on tlic sub­ject of honored Southern customs and Abe's expe­rience ^»-ith some of them. Particularly the an­cient custom from the southern part of Ireland, whicli Abe helped re\*ive last year. 
.Abe, and Al Abrams, to name two, led the St. Patrick's Day parade up Peachtrcc Street in Atlanta and promise to do a repeat performance come March 17. 



10 YEAR 
REUNION 


JUNE 6-7-8 
\ViIliam E. Scanlon, Secretary 
400 E. nith Street 
Chicago 28, III. 
This is the year of our tenth annual reunion. 
In order for it to be a great success we must all make it a point to attend. Plans should be made well in ad^*ance so that we will have June 6, 7, and 8 free. Let's outdo our last reunion this summer during the good times witli our old friends. 
Col. Frank Gabreski, one of the top United States flying aces, is getting the support of his home town. Oil City, Pa., in raising funds for a "campaign of merc>'" he is canrying out while dealing death and destruction to Communists in Korea. Frank is commander of the Fifty-first Fighter Interceptor Wing in Korea. -A short time ago this Wing adopted an orphanage in Korea with 224 children. The colonel had writ­ten tlie Mayor of Oil City remarking that the orphanage could use a little financial help. 
Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., has been elected to membership with The Audubon Artists of New York. This society is composed of artists who 

Just to prove that Jake Klein wasn't ALWAYS at Notre Dame. The Alumnus hcreuith presents the 1879 baseball team, complete with faculty moderator in a derby hat. 
have received national ranking in open .American competition. ^lembersliip is by invitation and is based on artistic merit. Father Lauck is the first priest to receive this honor. 
BIRTHS 
Their fifth child and third-son. James Matthew, 
was bom to Mr. and Mrs. AMlliam B. Madden 
on Dec. 14. 
1943 
Jack Wggins, Secretar** 
IHOi Rupley Lane 
Dallas 14, Texas 
Tliough Christmas will be long gone when tliesc words appear in the ALUMNUS, it appears al this writing as if some of the '43 lads were gracious enough to take time from their Christ­mas shopping and egg nogging to drop us a h*ne. For this—A warm thank you. 
Tlie first letter came from tlie guy who used to give us the news on campus when he edited the Scholastic, Don Heltzel. Don writes (from 4100 
E. Market Street, Warren, Ohio): "Last spring I happened by Dallas on business and tried to contact you by phone. Needless to say, we didn't connect. If I had, I would have given you these notes verbally and saved myself a workout at the t^-pewriter. "I've seen George Kelly a couple of times in Washington, and on my last trip just missed Bob Brotvning and his wife Fat. But one person at a time . . . "George works for. the American Legion in Washington. We had a few hurried drinks at the Willard one afternoon and among other things, he mentioned tliat Bill Brady is working for a Washington newspaper. I also recall that he mentioned Walt Jones, his brother in law, and a verj- successful law practice back home in Indiana. Bob BroH-ning and I lost contact after a chance meeting at Subic Bay in the Philippines. But just recently I ran across his likeness on a page in a trade magazine with an accompanying news article. Briefly, Bob is now an executive sccrctan' for the Michigan Road Builders Associa­tion, with ofHces in Lansing. After the war. Bob went up to the University of Michigan for his law course and until going with MRB.A was with the Central Trust Co. of Lansing. He and Pat ^vere in Washington in connection with his new appointment about a week before my last trip there. In a brief interchange of letters, he mentioned that Lou Caruso is prac­
tising law in Lansing. I'm looking forward to seeing Bob one of these days since we are both in allied phases of the road construction business. 
"I also ran into Gene Fdilig in Washington, 
who had traveled there from Alontana where he 
now lives. Gene and I were attending a course 
at the University of Mar\'land. We both passed, 
by the way, and now have t^vo good football 
teams to root lor—not that Maryland is going to 
supplant our initial and primary- loyalty, however. 
"At Pittsburgh, at the game this Fall, Beth 
and I were celebrating the \-ictory with a gang 
in the Tarry Bar when Jack Edwards and his 
wife walked in. Edwards mentioned that Jack 
Duggan has transferred to either AlinncapoHs or 
St. Paul. Jack (Edwards, that is} comes into 
Warren on business now and then and said he'd 
stop by the next time, 
"I've seen Jim Madigan several times down in Little Rock, .Arkansas. Jim is a CPA and doing very well, I understand. And speaking of CP.As, I had a letter from Dan DoHi3e>-same time ago announcing the arrival of a girl—their third. Dan said he had completed his CPA requirements at the University of Alabama. Dan succeeded my­self and Bob LeMcnse as editor of the Scliolastic. you might recall, and is the brother of Jim Downey, who was in our class. 
"Going further back in the calendar, I remem­ber haWng lunch here in Warren with Pete Moritx and his wife. Pete came in from ^fans­field where he is in the ready mixed concrete business. And at the Notre Dame-Naw game in Cleveland last year, we ran into Don Kelsey and Jack AfcGrath eating lobster at Fisher Robr's on a rainy Friday evening. Kelsey is ^vo^king in North Carolina and McGrath in Washington. 
At various times and places during the course of the Cleveland week-end, we bumped into Nick and Vic Gulyassy, Andy Chlebec and Tom Conly. At an earlier game at South Bend, had a drink with Bill Nicholson and also Bob Nenno who wandered by our tabic in the Blarney Room. 
"Off the cuff, mutual friends have reported that Bob Mumane took his medical degree some time ago at Ohio State (he's in Newfoundland now, according to tlie last ALUMNUS); and that Jack Hunter is working in Chicago. 
"Here in AVarren my brother-in-law, Leo Keating, is practising law after receiving his degree from Marquette. Leo and Louise have a girl and two boys to follow them to St. Mar>-'s and NT). 
"Beth and I completed construction of our home a few months back and moved in with Terry (214 years) and Susie (154 years). I be­lieve that puts me on a current basis as far as class news goes. Jack. I hope the next time I'm in Dallas I get an opportunity to call you." 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Thanks, Don, for an excellent contribution; next time you arc in Dallas try Fairdale 0840. Along with inside plumbing this new neighbor­hood in which I reside now enjoys the marvels of the telephone. 
Nc-tt came a letter from S. W. Rowbottom, 

M.D. (National Bank of Washington Bldg., Kent, Washington): "Just a short note which may be of interest to some members of the 1943 class. 
"I left Notre Dame in *42 to enter Loyola 

Medical School—graduating in 1945. I spent a 
couple years in the army and then settled in 
Kent, Washington, where I am in general prac­
tice, I am married and have two adopted boys, 
age two years, and fourteen months. 
"IVhilc in Detroit for a few hours this sum­mer, I talked to Felix Abaldo, *43, who is prac­ticing dentistry there, and is now married and has one cliild. 
**John *Smokey' Riordan, '43, is specializing in anesthesia at Mayo Brothers. He, too, has taken the sacred vows. 
"That sums it up. Jack, for the last eight 

or nine years, a^>^vay.** 
The final contribution of the month came from 

our most consistent reporter. Bill Tracy: 
"I almost forgot to •write you concerning the Navy game but the December edition of the ALUMNUS did tlie trick. 
"The Na\-y game was more entertaining for the ND man than was the SMU game. After seeing ND in two consecutive losses against Michigan State 1950 and SMU 1951 I was happy at the outcome of the Na\y game. 
"During the half I saw Bud Dudley whom I haven't seen since before the war. We were joined by Tom Miller, so we had a lot to talk about. Both Bud and Tom appeared prosperous. 
"My brother, Joe, and his intended, Ro5emar>-Guiney, along with Mr. and Mrs. Frank Kunkel made the trip on the Metropolitan Club Special. I attended the ND Rally prior to the game and the cocktail party after the game. I chatted with Hugh Bums, Herb Jones, Bob Cahill, and Frank Leahy at the Rally. I met Julian Atwatcr at the Cocktail Party following the Na\-y game. I hadn't seen Julian since prior to the War, and I am happy to say that he looked to be in good shape." 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Edward Tom Conley, Jr., a Son, Terrcnce, in Cleveland. To Mr. and Mrs. Wa>Tie A. Shriwise, a son, Nfark Augustus, Nov- 23. 
1944 
Georga A. Barisdllo, Jr., Secretary' 515 Fifth Avenue Bradley Beach, New Jersey 
Many thanks to all of you who remembered your scribe at Christmas-time with greetings and messages. Trust all *44ers had a grand holiday season. Heading off the year's first column with a hope and a prayer—a hope that the new year will be filled .with joys, happiness and success for all; a prayer that you boys will always keep the mail "a-comin* **. Incidentally, another year 
. and we're a step closer to our big 10-ycar reunion in '54. Suggest you -schedule your long range plans accordingly. 
Into the mailbox and out with communique No. 1 from Fred Eichom (Dallas): 
"For some time I have had the best of Inten­tions of dropping yooi a note. I am one of those members of the class of *44 that finally finished at Notre Dame In 1947 after spending three years in the Army. 
"At present I am living in Dallas where I am Chief Chemist of the two Dallas plants of the General Portland Cement Company. The Notre Dame Club in Dallas with James Simmons as president, is pretty active. Forty of them made the trip to South Bend to see the ND-SMU game. I have had several good times ^vith Jake Reichensteia who is associated with the Comscr Lumber Co. Hope to make the lO-ycar reunion." 
Remember Frank Stumpf (Richmond, Va.)? Frank's yearly report, a masterpiece of informa­tion, brought the following welcome news: 
"Here goes my annual letter contributing, a little bit to the class news. My wife, Madelyn, and I went out to South Bend to the SMU game in October, and, except for the added wives, it almost looked like the year 1941. Mar>­Helen and Joe VanDyke came up from Kansas City; Floy and Jim Meagher from Harriman, Tenn.; Clair and Artie Hoffman and Mary Louise and Dick Doermer drove up from Fort Wayne. 
"Joe is in the Dr>* Cleaning business; Jim is selling for a hardware manufacturer; Dick is a practicing law>*er; and .\rtie is keeping General Electric operating. Tom Brennan joined us from Houston, Texas. Tom is also a law^-er, keeping the oil business within the law. 
"The night before the game we saw Da\*e Rooney, John Anhut and Lou Schmitz in the LaSalle. Later on Joe Dillon came in and I was surprised to find that he was living in South Bend. While there we ran into Jerry Coleman. Phil Russcau was in from ^Vashington on his honeymoon and told us that he was soon going 
At Camp Carson, Colo., civilian officials inspect Army ordnance equipment; Joseph W. Gosselin (dark hat), with L. to R., Mayor Don Wilson, Danville, lU.; Edw. Thomas, Spcaker-Hines, Detroit; A. C. Moore, Ford Motor Co.; P. A. Switzer, Gen. Motors and John N. McLucas, Natl. Bank of Detroit. Gosselin, '33, is president of Aurora, HI. Cluh. 
January-February, 1952 
to resign from Government service and go back, to Norfolk. 
. "Saturday on the campus we met Ed SteiBer» iVuiI Marietta, Don Tiotticr, "Red" McDoaadl^ M Yoim^oine, Jolm Martia and Bob Metder. Bernie Finocane was there but I didft't see him. VanDyke sud Bernie is working for Honer-GIaner Laboratories in Kansas City. Joe also sud that Jolm Cowley is h'ving in San Mateo, Calif., and that Jack Falkm is U\'ing in Kansas City. 
"At the Navy game in Baltimore the class of '44 was again well represented. Joe DiUon and Fat Kiley and their wi\-es drove down from Indiana and met Charles MdRdrcy and wife. They were joined at the Cocktail Party at the Hotel Emerson by Jim Clark, Joe Gallagher, Joe Pom, and Joe Gall, who is with the FBI in Philadelphia. 
**Tom Conaty married my wife's sister (Tom Brennan was 'too little and too late*) in June and Leo Burke was at the wediiing. Leo is-selling furniture here in Richmond while Tom is finishing ^ledlcal School before going home to Huntington, West Va. to intern. Don Seuffert Came up to Richmond to see Tom during the summer. 
"He is a Navy dentist with the Marines and was shortly to leave for Puerto Rico. Recently we received a letter from the Orlando Bcnni­ccili's and they have moved back to Bonnie's home town of Chisholm, Afinnesota. The Sam AVing's were kept from joining us at the SMU game by the birth of another daughter. He and Jim Meagher are trying to keep St. Mary's fu­ture enrollment up to capacity by themselves. 
".•\t the North Carolina game I met Jmi Malone in Durham. He is living still In Toledo, but stopped off for the game on his way to Florida. Here's hoping this will help some until thli time next year when I trust I will have more to report." A tremendously creditable job o| reporting, Frank! 
Bob Londergan is now with the Sixth Tank Bn. (Med.) in Korea and found time during the truce negotiation hiatus to pen a battle­field communique: 
"Well, the big item of news from me is that I was married last July 7 in the Lady Chapel in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. Afar>­Ellen Kellcy of Boston, Mass., is now Mrs. Londergan. I realize the news is a little late, but things have been happening quite rapldly ihese past few months. 
"I was on active duty in the army at the time of the wedding, having been recalled to active duty in Oct., 1930. While on our honeymoon I received my orders to FECQM, and since ar­riving in Korea in September there has been more than enough to keep me bus>'. 
"I was with one of the tank companies for a while, but now I am in battalion headquar­tcrs. The Sixth Tank is part of the 2-lth Div. on the Central Front. Luckily, I am working-out of Division Rear right now and hope I stay here till I come home. I am due for release in March, '52." 
^ "Cy" Desmet, with a special inquiry for all '44 Chem Engineers, has this to say: 
"As a result of Brother Ronan*s most inter­esting letter, I definitely feel that I have been disgustingly lax about bringing you up-to-date—" so—"Cy" Desmet has been promoted to General Manager of the Jozefiak Coal and Fuel Oil Co. (Detroit). He now has a new home in ^vhich he moved on All Saints' Day. 
"Mrs. Desmet has presented us with two fine children, Thomas (age 3) and Mary (age 2). Another little one will be along shortly—this spring sometime. Here in Detroit we're Jooluny fon*-ard to our annual Christmas party, ha\-ing­just had our Communion breakfast De c 9 (a. huge success). You might inquire in your col­umn about the Chem. Engineers of '44. The news from these various fellows should be most interesting and enlightening." 
The "cohimn" is aUvays happy to have a \islt from a former class secretary who held down, this comer so :dily for so many issues. Reference, of course, being made to John Lynch, who can. be reached at Box S48, Birmingham, Michigan, and who brings us up to date, to wit: 
"Not much news hereabouts, except that thc­family is growing. Have three now, Tom, Chris­tina and Ellen, the last being but five weeks old. Have recently changed jobs and am now editor of FORD FARMING, publication of Dear­bom Motors—marketing organization for Ford 
35 
Tractors. Interesting work and a chance to do a little writing on farm subjects. *'Othenvbe, I don't get much time for the 
^%Tiiing game anxinore. It's a long time be­tween stories. Hope you are well and success­ful. Are ^-ou a practicing Iaw>-cr, or ^vhatever you do?" Yes, John, I'm practicing with a law firm in Asbury Park (N. J.). 
Hats ofT to Ben Mammina and the Mrs. on the arri%"al of Tanj-a, their first. Ben*s address is 216 Hampton Rd., Benton Harbor. Mich., and he asks his ''buddies" to write. Frank Car\er (Altoona, X. Y.) also passing out the smokes in honor of Michael Joseph. 
.^nd so your secrctar>"'s mail bo\ is empty once more. If you're just a READER and not a WRITER, how's about mending your ways and supplying me with some news for the next 
column. That's not a challenge—just an invita­tion! From Ray Griff Allen: 
"We have a new address here in Youngstown now—^2230 Burma Drive. To fill up the house we have a new son, born Nov. 13. .-Vftcr having the girls, the male of the species was indeed Welcome." 
THE MILIT.ARY LIFE Ed Gallagher reports an address change: from 821 32nd Street, South Bend, to Oceanside, Cal. Ed has dusted out the ODs, is again Capt. Edw. R. Gallagher. CO of a weapons company in Fleet Marine Force, training at Camp Pen­dleton. Here's his ser\'ice address: Capt. E. R. Gallagher, USMCR Y\'pm; Co.y 2nd Bn, 3rd Marines 3rd Marine Brigade, FMF Camp Joseph A. Pendleton Oceanside, California 
BIRTHS 
To Mr. and Mrs. William F. ^\*aldron, Jr., a son. Frederick Martin in Livingston. X. V., Xov. 19. 
To Mr. and Mrs. John H. Crahan, a son. Michael John, Xov. 24 in Xapoleon. O. XIXE POUNDS. 
1945 
AI Lesmez, Secrelar\­61-36 82nd Street Elmhiirst, New York 
THE CLASS GRO^VS Tiie campaign to get as many of the *'lost" members of our class officially listed in the '45 ranks is progressing successfully. Tliere are siill many former students who attended school with us who should be listed with our class; there are also a few in neighboring classes who may prefer to be ofhcially in the class of '45. If you are cither of these, or if you know someone who is. do not hesitate to drop AI Lesmez a card. Once a name is in the "machinery'* it 
•\rill be thoroughly followed through. The big 
item is first getting the name: a cue it-hich <annot be sent in by anyone but YOU!! 
During the past month or so, a few of our old classmates have written me specifically to have them listed officially in the class of '45. Tlicir notes are printed below. It's a pleasure to include them in our ranks, and to welcome them. It will be swell exchanging stories with them at our 10-year reunion. 
Robert (Jerrj-) McCarthy: "Please consider me as part of the class of '45. I believe the Uni­versity has me listed as ex '46. 
Have enjoyed reading your column, We just had our first daughter four months ago. I am 
•working at Rohr Aircraft Corporation, Regards," (Jerry's address is 2311 Eric Street, San Diego 10, California.) 
Frank S. Lukas: "I*d like to be listed in the '45 gang although I was given a degree in August of 1947 after an interruption of my studies. I am now married, a practicing Claims Attorney in Austin, Texas. Give my regards to the class." (Frank's address is 4011 Ridgelca Drive, Austin, Texas.) 
John H. Horrigan: "Please include me in the class of *45." (John's address is 1505 Frederick, Joliet, Illinois.} 
James F. Dugan, Jr.: "I want to be included •officially in the class of '45." (Jim's address is 17717 Lakewood Heights Blvd., Lakewood, O.) 
Gcoi ^ Despot: *'Count me in the '45 class." 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
CHARLES D. CASHMAN, '34 
A graduate mining engineer, Mr. Cashman has been working for the past year in the "Labrador Trough," directing the exploration of a 200­square mile region extremely rich in iron deposits. 
He is chief mining engineer for Feni­more Iron Mines, Limited, which is investigating 1500 claims in this region. It is from this "Labrador Trough" that the U. S. steel manufacturers hope to get, eventually, enough ore to re­place the rapidly dwindling supply of the Mesabi range on Lake Superior. 
In previous connections Mr. Cash-man was chief engineer for New Nor-zone Mines Ltd., of Quebec and of Malartic Gold Fields. He was also at one time assistant geologist and efficiency engineer for Lake Shore Mines, one of Canada's largest and richest gold producers. 
(George's address is 6(W1 Gilbert Drive, Shreve­port, Louisiana.) 
CL.ASS ELECTS OFFICERS 
A letter recently received from John P. Bums, energetic Managing Editor of the ALUMNUS, who, we're glad to hear, has just recovered from a nervous stomach caused by overwork (probably induced by yours truly) informs me of the outcome of the class elections recently conducted through the mail. Tlicse ofRccrs arc to hold office only until the new elections to be held in 1953 during the big reunion weekend. The new officers are: 
President—AI Lesmez 
\^ce-President, South—Tex Pequ!gne>' 
\ncc-Prcsident, ^Vest—^Dick Ames 
\nce-Pre^dent, Midwest—Tom Bcigin 
\^ce-President, East—John O'Rourke 
Treaswcr—Ray Baddour (We're going to have $1.00 Dues!!) Secretary—^.A! Lesmez 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT 
From James F. Sdiw^ckert: "The very latest 
event has us all imbued with real Christmas 
spirit.' We now are probationary parents. We 
have a little fellow about 20 months old (two 
in March) and God willing and all else satis* 
factory, we'll complete adoptive proceedings in a 
few months. Carl Anthony weighs 22 pounds, 
has light brown hair and green eyes (like us), 
and a whole mouthful of teeth. He's a healthy, 
happ>% little boy and ivc'rc pleased as punch. 
"And, as so often happens with adoptive par­ents, our good family medico tells us he's quite certain that Tony is going to Iiave a brother or sister along around August of 1932. Jeanette and I are crediting all this good fortune to the Rosary and St. Gerard. We've waited five years, so you can appreciate our hilarity wi .h cur­rent events. 
**As for Tony, wc have a potential member for the Glee Club, if performance in the bathtub vocal section has any significance!! What August brings is still up to Providence. We'll tell you all about it then! Holiday greetings to all from Jim,. Jeanette, and Tony." 
(News is really pleasant from your comer, ^m , so congratulations from me and from the class on your good fortune. Tell Tony to keep up the ungtng in the bathtub because that's the only place some of us ever get a chance to sing. Regards to all, and good luck—AI.) 
From William Clarke, M.D.: "I began the general practice of medicine at Kalida, Ohio on Oct. 15, after eighteen months ol medical resi­dence at St. Rita's Hospital, Lima, Ohio. I am now just a country* doctor. Still single!! Which reminds me that Dr. Fred Afaurer, M5, was married in Lima this Fall to Miss Rhea .Auniser of Ottawa, Ohio. 
**He is now in an O.B. residency- at St. Mar>''s Hospital in Grand Rapids, Alichfgan. There are several good XD alumni in this immediate area, but as yet no clubf but we're talking about it. Let's hope it gets beyond that. Regards to all." 
From Hank Frailcy: *'I am now with Westing­house, living in Elmira, New York. I am a manufacturing engineer in cathode ray tube pro­duction. Peggy (Peg Kirby, St. Mary's, '46), myself, and our three girls like this countr\' just fine. Will write again soon." (Good luck to you Hank, your Hife, and three girls .. . how do you expect Leahy to have gfx>d football teams in the years to come?) 
From George A. SchH-artz, Jr.: "Saw Paul Theis, another '43er at the Na\y game in Balti­more, on Xov. 3. He is connected w*ith a news­paper in Washington, D. C. He hasn't changed a bit since our '41 frosh days in Cavanaugh Hall. Your latest ALUMNUS article tells of Dave Ccmdon back on the job with the Chicago Tribune, and since I hope to be in Chicago in January for the furniture show, I will try to contact Dave. Phil Keen, when last seen, ^\'a$ employed by the Murry Company, in his native Honesdale, Pa. 
"Concerning yours .truly, when released from the Air Force, I returned to LaFayette College in Easton, Pa. I married Lois Marie Knapp of Wellcsley College (class of '48) in June IW9. We are the very* proud parents of George III, bom on the I5th of August, last year. 
**Hcard that Joe O'Keefc, '43, is with some advertbing agency* in Plitladdphia. Do you have his address? John Sloctun, '27, is located here in Lcliighton. He's in the auditing department of the F.D.I.C. Best wishes for a Happy Xew Year to you and the class." (Thanks a lot, George, aitd thanks to the rest of the fellows who sent me Season's Greetings.) 
From Brian C. McLaughlin's parents: "Dr. Brian C. McLaughlin is now Capt. AIcLaughlin at the U. S. Army Hospital, Camp Carson, Colorado. His wife, Monica, nad two children, Brian, Jr. and Dcirdra, have recently joined him-They are liring at 1220 E. Columbia Avenue, Colorado Springs, Colorado. (Thank you, Mr. and Mrs. McLaughlin, for ne^vs of your son. Please forward our friendliest regards to him and his family—M.) 
From Henry Pa^ne: "Hello, AI, and thanks for your card. I got a degree in X.S. and T. in '43 from XD, and also a B.S.A.E. in '47, so 

don't know what class I'm in. The Alumni Office seems to have tne in '47. As shown by the enclosed card, I am now the St. £.ouis representative for Logan Conveyors. My wife, Lan (3Vz), and Tom {V/2) are fine, considering the frigid weather." (Henry, a check shows you're rightfully listed in '45. Actually you can belong to any class you want, cither '43 or '47, but unce we want you in our class, we'll just leave you there unless you write me to the contrary—^Al.) 
From R. T. Blackhurst, M.D.: "I was placed in the active reserve on my birthday, last Jan-u:jr\% and ordered to active duty as a Captain in the Medical Corps on St. Patrick's Day last March. I kept remembering other St. Patrick's Da>*s at Xotrc Dame. My orders were cancelled two days before I was to report for duty . . . 50 the wife and I are home enjoying our five month old son, a future XD student. Say 'Hello* to the others for me." 
From Jim Redington's folks: "James C. Rcding­ton, Jr., M.D., is in New Orleans, Louisiana doing graduate work in tropical diseases, unti* February. After that he will be temporarily located in Washington, D. C." 
From Michael J. Coffey's sister: "Here is a brief report of the activities of my brother, Michael. He finished his two-year residence at the State Hospital in Trenton on July 1. On July 15 he started his six-week course for doctors at the Army Medical Center in San Antonio, Texas. He has been at the IGth Field Hospital, Xurenburg, Germany, since September. His wife and two small daughters are with him." (Thank you. Miss CofTey, for the news. Wish Michael luck in his assignments from hU classmates, and give him our best regards—Al.) 
From William F. Grant: "I graduated from the Har\'ard Business School in June, joined the Hallc Brothers Company, a department store in Cleveland as Assistant to the ^ferchandisc Afan­ager for home furnishings. My wife, Mary Agnes, brought us a son on August 12. He's a big boy named Patrick Joseph II, after his grandfather. We're living in Euclid, Ohio (25850 Tungsten Road) and looking forward to meeting some Cleveland XD'crs." 
From Joe Haggar: "Thank you very much for your card. I wanted to drop you a short note and tell you that at the present writing I am a married man with two little children. A girl two years old and a little boy six months old. I am getting along very fine in the pants busi­ness here in Dallas and occasionally do tun into some of the fellows I went to school with on trips throughout the country. 
"I had intended making the 5-year reunion but was unable to do so at the last minute because of business that came up, but certainly hated to miss it." (From the beautiful letter­head of the HAGGAR Company, and the picture of the modem plant on the bottom of the paper, it certainly looks like Texans wear more pants than they care to fly._ Glad to see you con­verted from an aero engineer to a progressive business head. Regards, AI.) 
From Bill Moore: "I have been going to write you for months now, but somehow I never got around to it. Your Christmas card was a vcr\' nice one, and a good reminder. After I got out of the Xavy in '46, I went to work for the Research Corporation, and have been with them ever since. I started as Field Engineer and tlien was transferred to the Estimating Department. Last year I was promoted to the Sales Division, and am still in that job with a territory from Xew Jersey to Florida (seaboard states only). 
"On Dec. 2 last year, as you later had in your column, I got married, and six weeks ago we had our first child, George Thomas II, weighing in at 5 pounds, HJ4 ounces. Xatur­ally we hope he will go to XD. 
"I see John Elliott, who now lives in Plain­field, Xew Jersey, once in a great while. I used to live in Plainfield, but since I got married, i»c have an apartment in Bound Brook, which is closer to work. I expect to be transferred to our Chicago office very shortly. Just when it ivill be, I don't know, as these things have a way of dragging out. There are not too many XD men around these immediate parts and since I travel most of the time, I do not get to the Xew Jersey Alumni Club meetings. 
"AU the XD men I have talked to, including in>*self, think you arc doing a swell job, and ^vc hope you will keep up the good work. Hope to see some of the fellows when I make that move 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
PHILIP J. HEINLE, '35 
Promotion of Philip J. Heinle to be 

assistant general purchasing agent of 
Lever Brothers Company has been an­
nounced by W. H. Burkhart, Produc­
tion Vice President. 
Mr. Heinle, formerly plant manager 

of the company's Harriet Hubbard 
Aver Division cosmetic and perfume 
plant in Long Island City, \vill be 
located in the general offices in New 
York. 
A 1935 graduate of the University 

where he played varsity football, Mr. 
Heinle lives with his wife and three 
children at 499 Ridgewood Road, 
Maplewood, N. J. 
He is currently president of the New 

Jersey Alumni Club. 
to Chicago. Incidentally, is there going to be an XROTC reunion this year?" (BiJI, you just asked the $64 question. I am in the process of finding out, and of trying to coordinate a re­union with the XROTC group with our own 10­year reunion. You know that the last NROTC reunion was held a few weeks ahead of our 5-year reunion, and consequently we all missed seeing each other. There are a lot of men in that MS XROTC group whom I'd like to see personally . . . men who were close friends of mine while at school. The same can be said for the rest of the class. It would be for the best of all concerned if we can manage to hold both reunions nmultancously, although they can be separate affairs, so that you fellows can still keep your own autonomy. At any rate, this is OLuIy a suggestion. I intend to have more con­crete information by next issue. Hope you feel the same «-ay as I do about it.—Al) 
X'ote: John Lauren Denniston announces his association with the law firm of Henncssy, Len­non and King, 1245 Continental Illinois Bank Building, 231 South LaSalle Street, Chicago. 
TO THE LAZY OF THE CLASS (Warning: Please don't read this unless you are one of the culprits.) 
Getting people to sit down to write is like trying to puU teeth. Even when all that is re­quired of you is that you check ( ^ your choice of candidates, fold the ballot, and insert it into the return enveh^w provided for the purpose, you put it off and let laziness and indifference win over your better judgment. The ballot return on the recent elections, the relatively poor return to the many tracers I send out, and the general **do>nothing" attitude of some of the class members is our greatest de^-weight. Mailings cost money. And they take time and enei^. They are well worth it only when a response is obtained. But lately it all has been very discouraging. 
In the last issue I asked for the correct address of several members of the class, and not a single person wrote in to help out with an address or a suggestion. Here are the names again. Please look them over. If you know anything about these men, send me a penny postcard right away. The names of the "lost" are: John W. Adams, George T. Haley, Lowell 
V. Ward, William M. Perry, William F. Rabbett, and Franda J. Gilligan. .-\nd if you arc one of those who has not answered one of my tracers, or has refused to write me, sit down on your "lazy" right away and write. Cfwperate, for this is YOUR class, and alt I can do is repeat what you tell me. SMong for now. See you next issue. 
Phillip Delincke has been in an iron lung since Sept. 1 in Collingswood, New Jersey. The prayers of the class are offered for his speedy recovery. 
NfARRIAGES Dr. John E. S. Dockweiler, on Nov. 3, to Winifred Boyle, in Los Angeles. 
BIRTHS 

A daughter, Ann Gcraldine, 7 pounds and 2 ounces, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. William M. Clemency on Sept. 25. 
ENGAGEMENTS 

The parents of ^liss Jean Ann Conners an­nounced her engagement to Mark A. Cronin, Jr. Both are of Chicago and plan to be mar­ried next spring. 
5 YEAR REUNION 
JUNE 6-7^8 

Sam Addo, Actii^r Secretary 
818 Thomas Street 
South Bend, Indiana 
The New Year is our year to howl. It will 
mark our first annual reunion come June 6, 7 
and 8. Since the last issue of the Alumnus, and 
the first reminder of our approaching get-
together, two months have passed. I hope 
ever>'one has made his plans to return by now, 
but if not, let's get on the ball. Inform the 
little woman and cancel all appointments for 
those three days so we can have 100% attend­
ance for the good times with your old friends. 
Mark those days down—^June 6, 7 and 8. 
Now some news ... Tom Morgan has enrolled as a member of the . June ^52 class of the American Institute for Foreign Trade at Thunderbird Field, Phoenix, .Arizona. Specializing in Latin America, Kforgan is taking the school's intensive training course in preparation for a. career in American business or government abroad. The course of study at the Institute concentrates techniques of interna­tional business administration, foreign languages. and characteristics of foreign countries. 
Ed Sanders has received notification from the Mayo Foundation, Rochester, Minnesota, he has. been accepted for a residency in surgery com­mencing Oct. 1. 
Bill Webb received his degree as Doctor of Philosophy from the University of Minnesota in December. 
Bin Lcavey is now stationed at the Transport tatioQ Center, Ft. Eustes, Va. 
MARRIAGES 

Robert £. Russell to Miss Vernon IV'igglns on Thanksgiving day. Bob is from South Bend and Mrs. Russell is from Alabama, but they %vere married in Los Angeles. 
Brendan A. 0*Grady and ^liss Leah Patricia Brothers were married De c 29 in Chariottctown. Prince Edward Island. 
BIRTHS A daughter, Susan Afaric, was bora to Mr. and Mrs. James Sheridan of New York on Nov. 
21. This is their second child, both daughters. 
Hhfr. and }^frs. George Weiss announced the birth of a daughter. Mar>- Sharon^ on De c 10. 
1948 
Jolin P. Walker, Secretary 135 So. LaSaUe Street Chicago, HI. 
James J. Greene, of St. Johns, Newfoundland, received lus B.A. in Law at Oxford last June, and is now working for his M.A. Jim is a Rhodes Scholar. 
From a letter concerning Edu-ard Cronin: 
*'£d is a lieutenant in the Marine Corps; he is suffering from a traumatic amputation of his left leg. This was a battle casualty'. He was admitted to the United States Na%'al Hospital in Oakland, California, on Aug. 8, and his stay there is indefinite inasmuch as he is to be fitted 
•with an artificial leg and taught how to use it. I am informed that he is getting along fine, is in good spirits, and is able to be up and around somc^vhat.'' 
From John D. Kramer at the University of Penns\'Ivania: 
"You might be interested to know that I was selected for Alpha Omega Alpha—the Medical scholastic honorary society. Also, Bill McShane —a freshman here from Notre Dame—is a fra­ternity brother of mine in a social fraternity (Nu Sigma Nu) and seems to be coming along \-ery well with his work. Wc ^v•cnt down to Notre Dame-Navy football game in Baltimore and ran into quite a few of the Notre Dame boys from Georgetown Medical Scliool—who like­wise seem to be getting along very satisfac­torily." 
A. Robert Klucka is in Med School In Mis­souri. In a letter from Memphis: "There ahvays has to be something sad to come up, and it was only at noon today that I learned of the sudden death of Barney Peebles, BSC M8, who vent to Notre Dame from Philadelphia, Miss., and adopted T^femphis as his hometown. It was my pleasure to help him get his first job here and all his actions were pleasing to all of us as he always demonstrated tliat he was a real Notre Dame man. Until he left here to go back into the service, he was an officer in the Notre 
Dame Club. He made a fine impression in Memphis and was one of the finest young men I have ever known. Will send you details of the accident later." 
BIRTHS Their second daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Joe Yonto in Port Huron, Mich, Mr. and Mrs. Dand Thornton, Notre Dame VetWIle, a son, on Jan. 5. Mr. and Mrs. Leo B. Kunkel report the birth •of their second child, a girl. Jean Ann. born Aug. 14. To Mr. and Mrs. John L. Rauch, a son, Michael John, on Nov. 5. Mr. and Mrs. James F. Welter announce the birth of a son, Christopher James, their second child, on Dec 6. 
1949 
'2nd Lt. John F. Connor, USMCR, Secretao' I Co., 2nd Tr. Bn, "A" Barracks Marine Corps Sdiools Quantico, Va. 
Army News Release: "PFC Michael J. Greene of 8 Birch Ave., Wheeling, W. Va., is ser\-ing with the 7th Division in Korea as an Army 
correspondent. Reporting war neu-s for the Army newspaper. Stars and Stripes, Greene lives and campaigns wtih the division's three infantry regiments to gather material for his stories. 
**The 23-year-oId Notre Dame graduate joined ihe "Ludcy 7th'* in September. He was in­
ducted in January 1951 and received his basic 
training at Camp Breckenridge, Ky. 
"On a recent assignment, correspondent Greene 
covered the 7th Division's limited ofTensive which 
drove the Reds north of Yanggu, breaking up a 
possible Red attack. 
"Greene wears the Korean Scn'icc Ribbon with 
one campaign star." 
The Hallicraftcrs company announced the elec­
tion of William J. HaUigan, Jr., as radio sales 
manager of the company. 
Robert C. Kdldier is now a Junior in Jef­
ferson Medical College. 
From G. Roger Cahaney: "I left the General Electric Company after three years in that com­pany's ad\'ertising and sales promotioa division, to take on a position as an account man with Fuller, Smith & Ross, in Cleveland." 
Myron J. Maul is teaching at the C.S.C. Brothers' School in Austin, Texas. 
Antonio \fortcnsen, '49, Quito, Ecua­dor, being congratulated by WiUiam J. Moore, '26, President of the Harrisburg Alumni Club, on completion of a year's training in the United States. The train­ing under the sponsorship of the Bureau of Apprenticeship, U. S. Department of Labor, took place in the plants of the 
H. J. Heinz Company, Philadelphia, the Stokely Company in Indianapolis and others. Moore is the Assistant Director of the Bureau of Apprenticeship. 
Mortensen received his B.S. degree at Notre Dame in Chemical Engineering. He b nou' in Ecuador on executive duties with a cannery. 
At the ceremony in Washington \foore pionted out that Notre Dame has been carrying on an International Good Neigh­bor Program for several decades — since it has had students from all Latin Amer­ican countries. 
From the U. S. Na\y: '"Thomas Dore has been accepted as a Na\'al ^ r Cadet and has departed for Fensacola, Flonda for training. 
"Dore, 24 years old, is a resident of Dearborn, Atlchlgan, and received his degree In Economics in January', IW9. He saw previous ser\-Ice Mth the Merchant Marine Cadet Corps in the Psunfic and Mediterranean areas and iv-as employed at the Berkshire Life Insurance Co. in Detroit prior to enlisting. 
"He will receive 18 months of Pre-FIight, Baslc^ and Advanced pilot and military training at "The Annapolis of the Air"—Pensacola. 
"Upon completion of his training he can be sent to \'arIous bases for further training in cur­rent combat planes. This will be followed by assignment to carrier, patrol, or transport squad­ron duty with the fleet." 
Ffc JaMes F. Gagon is stationed at Walters 
A. F. B., Texas. Ct4. Wimam FfaflT is with the Hq. Co. at 
Fort Jackson, S. C. Capt. dorie s R. Wagner, US.-\F, is at Craig 
A. F. B., Selma, Alabama. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Jolm Patrick Carroll, a son, John Martin, on Nov. 12 in Kansas City, Mo. 
ENGAGEMEPfTS 2Ad Lt. Raymond P. Zink to 2nd Lt. Ruth 
A. Schoenefeldt of Little Rock, Arkansas. George E. Maha to Helen Anne Dahm, *St. Mary's ex '47. 
Rbbcrt L. Raley to Miss Mary Hall Cushman Fenn of Mount Cuba, Del. 
DEATHS 
Mr. James A. RafTcrty of Rye. N. Y., Wee* 
president and a director of the Union Carbide 
and Carbon Corporation, died on De c 19 after 
a brief illness. He is the father of Ward Raf­
ferty, '41, and Jim Rafferty, '49. 
1950 
2nd Lt. John F. Connor, USMCR 
I Co., 2nd Tr. Bn, "A" Barracks 
Marine Corps Schools 
Quantico, Va. 
Details of the accident in ^vhich Bernard Kelsey 
was killed were received by the Alumni Office 
in the following letter from Mrs. Kelsey: 
"I am thanking you for your kind letter and 
prayers for Bernard. 
"He was killed Oct. 13 in Atlantic City, New 
Jersey. He was to obser\'c the spots ^vhere 
bombs were dropped by other pilots, and make a 
report on their accuracy. He did this until the 
planes returned to the base. ^Vhile waiting for 
a new group, he was Hying around, and his 
plane was noticed to pull up in a steep climb. 
It crashed and began to bum. Bernard was killed 
instantly. He was preparing to go on another 
cruise in the Mediterranean, as he did In the 
Spring." 
The sorrow expressed by the Alumni Office 
and the prayers offered for the eternal repose 
of his soul, will surely be joined by those of 
the many friends Bernard had acquired at the 
University. 
Bill Liditenberger is nou- stationed at Elling­
ton Air Force Base in Houston. 
Jerry Dobyns has recently been promoted to 
Manager of Industrial Engineering for the U. S. 
Rubber Company plant in Washington, Indiana. 
Tom Flock has recently assumed duties with 
the Chance Vought Aircraft Corporation in Dal­
las, Texas. 
Ihlr. Jf>scph Drennan ^^rites that his son James Dreaaan is now in the Army. Richard Leous is now stationed with the Army in Germany. Gerry Johnson has been sent to the Air Force in Albuquerque, New Mexico. ^t . John Gallagher is at the Rossford Ordi­nance Depot, Toledo, Ohio. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. Fred IV. Todd report a son bom Dec. 24. They call him Timothy. 
ENGAGEMENTS The engagement of Bill Shcehan to Kllss Diana Neissel of Kfidland, Texas, was announced in South Bend the day after Christmas. The parents of Miss Mary\*onne Rose of South Bend, Indiana, announced the cni;agement of their daughter to Bernard M. O'Doherty of Lorain, Ohio. The couple will be married in 
Ttbrtury. 
1951 
Robert J. Klingenberger, Secretary 1832 M Street, N.W. WttAangUm, D. C. 
The big holiday; are over now and most of us are back at our Jobs, whether it's pushing pencils or pealing potatoes, reminiscing the family re­union, the New Year's party, or the Christmas card received from one of the gang not on our aiailinff list. Knowing the class of '51, in what-e\-er way the holidays were spent, it's a sure bet 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

that a good time was had by all. So before thr memories of guys seen and stories heard fade away, how about dropping me a letter or post­card wUh all the latest dope. Let*s keep thi> column long and interesting by reporting tlu­livcs and loves of all our fellow travelers. 
I'm thankful for all the help and cooperation Tve received in editing this column, both from school and all you fellows; but I know tlierc arc many others with interesting information on themselves and other classmates, so send it in. 
Al Goamieri is in Warren, Ohio, his home, and working with his father. 
Many of the commissioed NROTC members of our class are scr\-ing in the Pacific area. Here arc a few: 
Ensign Al Ward, USS Bexar (APA 237), c/o 

F.P.O. San Francisco, Calif. Ensign Jack Bamett, USS Walkc. Ensign Don Sasseen, USS Manchester. Other; arc: Ensign Bill McLaughlin is in Norfolk, Va. Ensigns Phil Donc)% Jack Curran, Jack Tracy, 
and Don Murphy are on oilers in the Atlantic area. 
Ensign Bob Clemency-, USS Yellowstone in the Afcditcrranean area. Ensign Jim Dording is in Engineers School at 
Newport, R. I. Ensign Ted Prahiniki, USS Noble. Ensign Fred Kaufman, USS Leytc. Ensign Paul Bruggeman, USS Beltrrnin. Ensign Joe Eger, USS Vesolc. John Buckley is with U. S. Steel in Chicago 
and living at 7626 Paxton Ave. 
Joe Coleman is with ihe Bureau of Ship;, 
in Washington, D. C. Ted Broscoe is working in New York City. Jack Landry is working with the Department 
of Defense in the Capitol City. 
Correction: Andy Wassell and Hank Madden arc with AlhVChalmers in Milu-aukec, not New Haven, Conn,, as was reported in this column some time ago. 
Frank Boiler is married and living in Sunny CaK (Now hcrc*s a smart man , . . one of the Editor;.) 
Bill Whiteside, going to Pcnn Law School, was coaching freshman football this last year. 1 hope Bill took it easy, wc play IVnn next season. 
Bob Boyne is working in and around Washing­ton, D. C , and now living at 114 Glcnridge St., Chevy Chase View, Mar>land. 
Don Daniels and Tom Bcckman are now in the Marines. 
Ralph Schultz and Ron Malec arc teaching in the College of Commerce and attending Law School on the campus. 
Herb Hocne is back at school and taking graduate work in English. Pat Gallagher is in the Army and in In­dianapolis. 
George Foster and Gene Johnson arc also back nn campus going to Law School and will receive their Naval commissions in June. 
Joe Chaniga is working for the A. C. Spark Plug Division of General Motors in Milwaukee. Jim Shecrin and his new wife arc living at 
1.540 N. Meridian in Indianapolis. Bill and M. C. Anbut arc living in Louis­ville, Ky. 
Ensign Dick Hcrrle is a patient in the U. S. Naval Hospital. Portsmouth. Va., and was recently engaged. 
Hobe Taylor is in the Army and presently stationed at Fort BeKoir, Va. 
2nd Lt. Jack McCarthy is in the .Auditor General's OfHce at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio, and writes: "If any of the boys get to Dayton, Td like them to look me up—either at the base or at 64 South Pleasant St.. Fairbom, Ohio." 
Tom Snyder is now a Naval Cadet and his address is Class 26-51, Batt.I; School of Pro-flight, N..\.S., Pensacola, Fla. 
Bill Stelpflug is working in Clexeland and li\-­ing at 1200 ElbJcr St., Lakewood 7, Ohio. 
Les Logan, nou' working in Fort Wayne, be­came a father for the first time, and Leo Logan, '23, became a grandfather for the first time. 
I think that about does it for this time, so let me wind up my treatise by again calling your attention to my address that heads this column. Send a note sometime and let us all know what you're doing. 
I hope you all will excuse a reportcr*s license to say what he wants when he wants to, but (this is Tom Carroll talking) I saw quite a few (if our classmates over the holidays and some of the stories I got are pretty interesting. There's been a lot of troop movements, job placements, and all-around activity (sec Births and Marriages) to tell about. So here is what I've heard . . . 
The Louisville gang, under the banner of Jun Hennessy, promising young business man of the firm of John Hennessy and Son—Insurance and Real Estate, reports many hours of ribaldry, revelry, and reunion. Bob Niuuially, Don Grab­meycr. Bill Kelly, and Dave Scboen were all home for the holiday festivities. 
Nunnaily ts on his way to the Marine Corps Military Police School at Camp Lc Jeunc. Bill is still at Fort Knox, but winds up his training there shortly. Grobnieyer was home from ad­vertising school in New York. Dave Schocn, on New Year'i eve was waiting for Ward Mc-Cabc who spent a couple 4if days at Schoen's plantation. 
Hank Madden and Leo Brennan had a get-together in Milwaukee when Leo passed through on his way home to L'Anse. I understand the beer Industry- has reported a great increase in sali:s during tlie last part of December. 
Jack Worthington and M. J. have been trans­ferred to Sioux Falls, Iowa. 
Heard somv great rumors about a couple of the boys who were responsible for "Mr. and Mrs. Broadway" last year: Buddy Pbwen has received a part in a Broadway production, and Dick Marshall will be on "Songs For Sale" soon with one of the iongs from that well-rcmcmbered musical. That's all the story I've received, but I'm hoping the mail-man will be bringing in the success stories of each soon. 
Fred Curto is now prefixing his name with Pvt. "Mr. Basketball" was drafted into Camp Leonard Wcwd. He spent iliree weeks there be­fore receiving a 10-day furlough to be home for Christmas. This Army life is rough. Those three weeks must have been hell. 
It was reported that Frank Crovo was driving a garbage truck as Pfc. at Sampson Air Force Itasc in Geneva, New York. A typical fate for a commerce graduate. Thr rumor was wrong ihougli; he just loads it. 
Phil Finnegan is back from the Caribbean cruise he took the USS Newport News on and is now readying himself for a trip to Europe. There's a few rumors about Phil too. 
Jack Muldoon is still in Law School. Here is a warning for anyone contemplating flying around Pensacola, Florida. We are losing 
our air superiority. Dick Burke is a member of the NavCads and starts flying in about six weeks. Bill Moore, who will graduate in June, is upholding the good name of the Class of '51 in Dillon Hall. Pat Kinney hopes to be a lawyer from University of Michigan. John "the Mooie" Gellcr and George Saad have the same dreams 
of grandeur at Detroit. George Weber and Bob Fisher arc both in South Bend quite a bit. George is employed there and attending a few Accounting classes (very few). Bob works for an accounting firm in Chicago and is on a job in the Sdntillating Suburb. 
Tom Sheehan, who remembers Rockne, will graduate in June. Jim Benbow in Januarv-. 
Hugh Herdy is aboard the USS Nawman, a destroyer. Dave Naughton is back from Korean duty on the Pacific Coast. Jack Curran is back and back again. Bill Van Skoik and Jack Dimlevy, together on the .Aja\, received their baptism of fire a short time ago. Jack is Bill's immediate superior officer. 
Gerry Kerns is in the Coast Guard Academy. Bob "Hooker" Thompson is also wearing the red striped trousers at Camp Pendleton, Calif. 
Pete Green has been transferred to Fort Knox. Jean Ferryman is in the Coast Guard. Jim Laughlin is an infantryman now in Hawaii-Pete Donahue is at Fort Knox. 
Joe Lauber is in the St. Louis Med. School. Pat Tonti, now married to the c.\-Mis5 Mary Kcrwin, is in Law School at Ohio Stale. Jack Murray is in Fordham Law School. Joe Shdley >v'ill call Nortliwcstern his alma mater when he passes the bar (I refuse to make the pun). Jack Bochm, Don Sondag, and Tom Myers are in Med School at the same University. Bill Rich 13 in prc-med at Chicago U. 
Dave CLeary, Ed Magaer, Jim Rogcfs, and Gcac Cberie just finbhcd basic -and are entering the Counter Intelligence Corps. Bit] Hotdi^dt too. 
Walt CollJM works on an industrial paper in Philadelphia. Jerry Halfigaa is working for his father in North Bergen, N. J. "Jersey Jerry" plans on going into the Navy in February. 
Hotvie McDonald and Fat O'SnlKvan are sta­tioned at Indiantown Gap, Pa. Chacfc Fcigel was pbying football at Fort Knox, and Lanr Cootre was doing same at Camp Breckenridge. 
The Donald KuaUcs are moving to Campinas, Brazil, where Don will work in the new Singer Manufacturing plant there. 
Bin CushmaB has been at the Naval Officer Candidate School, Newport, Rhode Island, since October. Jcrrr Hnrtger is at Great Lakes. 
Wilfiam Gallagaw is working for Ibskins and Sells, Public Accountants, in New York City. Paal Dwycr has left the Boston area for Dallas, Texas, where he will work for the Chance Vought Aircraft Corporation. John CIcary has moved to Seattle, Washington, and is currently cmplo>'ed by Boeing ^rcraft Company. 
Two members of our class received junior mem­bership awards from the Indiana Society of Pro­fessional Engineers. They are Enul JaicA, who is now employed by the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company, and John Joyce, who works for the American Bridge Company in Gary. 
Donald Fetcnon has been named the new County Attorney of Elkhart County, Ind. 
Jim Madden is a CSC in North Dartmouth, Massachusetts. Don Krdn is in the Benedictines in St. Paul, Minn. Johnny O'Briea is in train­ing for the secular priesthood at St. John's, in Minnesota. Vem Bnrfchart is at Conception Abbey in St. Louis. 
I think that about does it for this issue^ with the good news that comes below, so let me wind up my little treatise by again calUng your at­tention to the address of your servant that heads this column. Send a note sometime and let us all know what yow're doing. 
MARRIAGES 

It's Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Rarras now. Gerr>' married the former Afarietta Clements fsister of Wally ClonenU) in South Bend. The two will make Boston. Mass.. their home. 
Mr. and Mrs. George Garden assumed that title on Dec. 29. George and Marie will have to follow the Navy around for at least a couple nf years. 
Joe ^e r and Dorothy Grimier tied the knot on Nov. 24 in E\'ansville, Ind. 
Thomas F. Conmy married the former Miss Kirstin Hedersticrna on Dec. 31. They were married in Gothenburg, Sweden, which is the home of the bride. They will reside in Chicago where Tom attends the Illinois Institute of Technology. 
John "Jake" Janowski wxs mairied to Rose­mary Helen Schwab, Dec. 27, at Notre Dame. 
BIRTHS 

.Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Logan have a new son. Leslie, Jr., as of I>ec. 21. In Fort Wayne, Ind. Mark Stevens is the son of Mr. and Mrs. 
Richard Fddpamch. He was bom in Hastings, Neb., on Aug. II. A girl was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Harold Rihm on Nov. 24. 
Jim and Boniue Frick 2u-e cursing the 2 o'clock feedings as of Jan. 6. Jim is working in the Foundation Office and fives in South 
Bend. It's a son. Shirley and Jim Wetzel announce the birth of a son, Michael Robert, on Nov. 29. Oicfc McDonald (Boston) and the Mrs. have an addition. It was a baby boy on Christmas day. Mr. aiKi Mrs. Robart Sheridan have a daughter gracing the family cradle. Noreen Janet arrived in November. 
ENGAGEMENTS Jerry Hank and Joyce McMalion announced their engagement over the Christmas ' holidays. Joyce is a senior at St. Clary's. 2ad Lt. Fanl F. Koroora is engaged to Miss Martha Jane P^licholson of South Bead, Enugn Frank MnUcr has given the ring to Miss Maureen Carroll of St. Louis and St. Mary's '52. 
Foundation 
(Continued from page 9) 

OUahom;. City, Okla. Chairman: Haskell Askew, '31 Omaha, Neb. Chairman: Edward D. McKim, non-alumni Co-Chairman: Denis Radford, Jr., non-alumni Oshkosh, Wise Chairman: Charles J. Fiss, '34 Oswego, N. Y. Chairman: Thomas M. McGough, '31 Palm Beach, Fla. Chairman: John R. Butler, '17 Pateison, N. J. Chairman: Richard J. Dcricks, '31 Pawtucicet, R. I. Chairman: Leo R. McAloon, '30 Pembroke, Mass. Chairman: Frederick C. Solari, Jr., '36 Peoria, lU. Chairman: William J. Motsett, '31 Perth Amboy, N. J. Chairman: John E. Lisicki, '31 Philadelphia, Pa. Chairman: Ambrose F. Dudley, '43 Phoenix, Ariz. Chairman: Robert D. Kendall, '31 Pittsburgh, Pa. Chairman: Leo O'Donnell, '17 Plymouth, Ind. Chairman: Marshall F. Kizer, '30 Ponca, Neb. Chairman: Francis B. Hurley, '26 Port Arthur, Texas Chairman: Christie C. Flanagan, '28 Port Huron, Mich. Chairman: Clifford O'SuUiran, '20 Portland, Ore. Chairman: Frank J. Loncrgan, '04 Portsmouth, O. Chairman: William A. Burke, Jr., '35 Providence, R. I. 
.Chairman: Paul D. Hoeffler, '25 Pueblo, Colo. .;~. Chairman: A. R. Thomas, non-alumni Racine, Wise 
Chairman: James M. Hamilton, '35 . Co-Chairman: H. M. Bcnstead, non-alumni Reno, Nev. Chairman: Mfchael A. Diskin, '07 Rhinelander, Wise. Chairman: Donald C. O'Mclia, '39 Richmond, Ind. ­Chairman: Norman B. Jenkins, '30 Richmond, Va. Chairman: Francis R. Kelly, Jr., '39 Rockford, DL Chairman: Leonard W.. Condon, '32 Rock Island, IlL Chairman: Edmund J. Meagher, '21 Rutland, Vt. Chairman: Louis W. Esposito, '31 Saginaw, Bay City and Owosso, Mich. Chairman: Thomas F. Van .Aarlc, '21 St. Joseph, Mo. Chairman: Richard W. Snooks, '36 St. Louis, Mo. Chairman: Matthew W. Weis, '22 St. Paul, Miim. Chairman: Robert M. Rogers, '43 Salina, Kans. Chairman: Norbert F. Skelley, '25 Salt Lake City, Utah Chairman: John Gallivan, '37 
San Anton'o, Texas Chairman: William V. Diclmann, Jr., '25 Sandusky, O. Chairman: Charles M. Mouch, '25 San Francisco, Cal. Chairman: Keene P. Fitzpatrick, '13 Schenectady, N. Y. Chairman: John J. Huether, '22 Scranton, Pa. Chairman: Michael B. Comcrford, '43 Sheboygan, Wise Chairman: William A. Gottsackcr, '36 Shreveport, La. Chairman: Victor J. Mart^cl, '30 SIou;: Falls, S. D. Chairman: Thomas M. Reardon, '36 South Bend, Ind. Chairman: Bernard J. Vo!I, '17 Spokane, Wash. Chairman: Elmer E. Johnston, os '20 
Springfield, III. Chairman: John M. Carroll, '28 Co-Chairman: Charles G. Corcoran, '17 
Springfield, Mass. Chairman: William J. Granfield, '13 Springfield, Mo. Chairman: John H. Landers, '34 Springfield, O. Chairman: Andrew L. Hcllmuth, '36 Sterling, 111. Chairman: Joseph H. Bittorf, '31 Syracuse, N. Y. Chairman: Leo Kellcy, '21 Tacoma, Wash. Chairman: William J. Ellis, '35 Taunton, Mass. Chairman: Charles F. Colton, '29 Terrc Haute, Ind. Chairman: Louis F. Keifcr, '16 Tifiin, O. Chairman: Fred J. Wagner, '29 
Toledo, O. Chairman: Frank R. Lockard, '19 Co-Chairman: Joseph L. Tillman, Jr., '21 
Trenton, N. J. Chairman: Santo L. Belli, '44 Trinidad, Colo. Chairman: Joseph F. Nigro, '40 Troy, N. Y. Chairman: William V. DoUard, '21 Tucson, Ariz. Chairman: James Murphy, '38 Tulsa, Okla. Chairman: Walter B. Moran, '24 Utica, N. Y. Chairman: A. Charles Hitzelbcrger, '32 Venango, Forest & Clarion Counties, Pa. Chairman: William K. Bayer, Jr., '36 Vicksburg, Miss. Chairman: Lawrence H. Hennessey, '27 Vinccnnes, Ind. Chairman: James D. McQuaid, '31 Warren, O. Chairman: Paul A. Guarnieri, '36 Waseca, Minn. Chairman: Daniel M. Coughlin, '22 Washington, D. C. Chairman: Charles D. Gainer, '41 M'aferbury, Conn. Chairman: William J. • Andres, ' 18 Wheeling, W. Va. and Bellaire, O. Chairman: Louis J. Veager, Jr., '35 
Whiting, Ind. Chairman: Ray Schaub, ex '17 Co-Chairman: James J. Glenn, '35 
Wilkcs-Barre, Pa. Chairman: Gilbert V. Perry, '31 WiUiamsport, Pa. Chairman: Francis C. Hayes, '27 Woonsocket, R. I. Chairman: John J. McLaughlin, '34 Worcester, Mass. Chairman: Edward J. McGaulcy, '28 York, Pa. Chairman: James R. Graham, '26 Voungstown, O. Chairman: Charles B. Cushwa, Jr., '31 Zanesvillc, O. Chairman: T. Vincent Mclntyrc, '30 Alabama Governor: Raymond E. Faherty, '24 Arizona Governor: William P. Mahoncy, '39 Arkansas Governor: Matthew H. Rothert, '24 California Governor: Thomas R. Ashe, '31 Colorado Governor: Robert A. Dick, '29 Connecticut Governor: John T. Cullinan, '28 Delaware Governor: M. Harry Miller, '10 District of Columbia Governor: Leo F. MuUin, '11 Florida Governor: Lcslcr W. Foley, '24 
Gcoiga 
Governor: Michael F. Wicdl, '34 Idaho Governor: Thomas J. Jones, '29 Illinois Governor: John E. Cassidy, '17 Indizna Governor: Joseph F. Donahu?, '12 Iowa Governor: Henry C. Wurzcr, '25 Kansas Governor: Daniel .-V. Welchons, '30 Kentucky Governor: Roger J. Hutcr, '40 Louisiana Governor: Arthur R. Carmody, '15 Maine Governor: John U. Riley, '17 Maryland Governor: Roy O. Scholz, '35 Massachusetts Governor: John F. Saunders, '31 
Michigan Governor: John E. Moore, '08 Co-Governor: Raymond J. Kelly, Sr.,' 15 
Minnesotp. Governor: John M. Culligan, M5 Mississippi Governor: l.awrencc H. Hennessy, '27 Missouri Governor: Joseph B. McGlynn, '12 Montana Governor: Richard C. Monahan, '98 Nebraska Governor: Gerald J. McGinley, '26 Nevada Governor: Edward P. Carville, '09 New Hampshire Governor: Maxime L. Gauthier, '29 New Jersey Governor: Raymond A. Geiger, '32 New Mexico Governor: .\nton R. Hebenstreit, ' 11 New York 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Governor: Edwin A. Berkcry, '27 
Co-Governor: Bernard J. Bird, '28 
Co-Governor: Joseph R. Brandy, '21 
North Carolina 
Governor: Edward J. Koontz, '32 
North Dakota 
Governor: William L. NcfT, '29 
Ohio 
Governor: Hugh M. O'Neill, '17 
Oklahoma 
Governor: Joseph A. Moran, '32 
Oregon 
Governor: William C. Schmitt, '10 
Pennsylvania 
Governor: Joseph R. Farrell, '15 
Rhode Island 
Governor: John S. McKicrnan, '34 
South Dakota 
Texas 
Governor: James P. Swift, '24 
Utah 
Governor: Phillip J. PurccU, Jr., '35 
Vermont Governor: Edward G. McC!allen, Jr., '31 Virginia 
Governor: Paul M. Morrison, '40 
Washington 
Governor: Emmctt G. Lenihan, '17 West Virginia Governor: .^rihur P. Hudson, '95 Wisconsin Governor: Grovcr F. Miller, '16 Wyoming Governor: Thomas G. Kassis, '31 
Class Contributions 
Totals of class contributions listed in the accompanying two columns re­flect two separate categories of gifts to the University: The Ninth Annual Fund, and The Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund. 
The Ninth Annual Alumni Fund included Alumni gifts received be­tween Jan. 1, 1951 and Dec. 31, 1951. 
The Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund, initiated in July, 1951 will con­tinue until July, 1952 and will include gifts until the latter date. Gifts re­ceived since Jan. 1, 1952 are being credited also to the Tenth Annual Fund, which began with the calendar year, and which ends Dec. 31, 1952. 
Thus, an Alumnus contributing in November, 1951 and repeating his contribution in January-, 1952 would be credited with gifts in three categories: the two annual Alumni Funds, and the Testimonial fund which covers part of the two calendar years. 
Repeat gifts to the Father Cava­naugh Testimonial Fund will, of 
Contribution by Classes 
FOR. THE CALENDAR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1951 
•Number Number of Amount 'Pcicentagc Avensc 
Class in Class Contributors Contributed Contributing Contributioa 
Governor: T. C. Kasper, '21 Tennessee Governor: Galvin C. Hudson, '15 

 and before  .. 201  30  $6,236u00  14S  $207JI7  
1901  ... 21  7  25aoo  33.3  35.71  
1902  ... 34  7  123.00  20.6  17J7  
1903  .. 33  12  383.00  36.4  31.92  
1904  ... 40  15  1,483.00  37.5  99.00  
1905  ... 37  12  1,345.00  32.4  iizoe  
1906  ... 48  16  8,188.00  33.3  511.75  
1907  ... 30  8  325.00  2&6  4a62  
1908  .. 45  14  i,75aoo  31.1  125J7  
1909  ... 60  15  3331.00  25.0  255.40  
... 43  14  1,392.00  32.6  99.43  
1911  ... 93  28  2,270.00  30.1  81.07  
1912  ... 88  24  29,122.50  27J  1,213.44  
1913  ... 75  25  2,450.00  33.3  98.00  
1914  ... Ill  34  1,348.00  30.6  39.64  
1915  ...  91  25  1,634.50  27.8  6538  
1917  ... 117  41  18,663.88  35.0  465.43  
1918  ... 96  36  1,610.50  37J  44.74  
1919  ... 84  20  1,500.00  23.8  75.00  
... 123  35  2,080.00  28.5  59.43  
1921  ... 134  47  8,12&00  35.1  17234  
1922  ... 210  72  3,895.13  34.3  54.10  
1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928 1929 1931 1932 1933 1934 1935 1936 1937 1938 1939  ... 260 ... 274 ... 373 .'..316 ... 437 ... 488 ... 533 ... 544 ... 582 ... 578 ... 578 ... 577 ... 559 ... 457 ... 500 ... 560 .. 600 ... 707  81 85 134 116 142 131 147 181 210 180 187 184 197 143 149 168 217 243  10,217.17 4,72^50 7,843.25 10,432.60 8,659.67 7,993.20 13,193.94 6,465.00 8,671.50 6,323.50 4,620.30 7,433.75 5,590.94 4,803.50 3,473.50 5,466.10 9,441.33 6,179.50  31.2 31.0 35.9 3&7 32J 26.8 27.8 33.3 36.1 31.1 32.4 31.9 35.2 31.3 29.8 30.0 36.2 34.4 36.1  126.14 55.56 58.53 89.93 60.96. 61.02 89.75 35.71 41.29 35.13 24.71 40.40 28.38 33.59 23.31 32.54 43.51 25^43  
1941  ... 629  227  34,188.30  41.8  15a61  
1942  ... 595  249  4,155.33  35.2  16.69  
1943  ... 620  218  4,288.75  35.4  19.67  
1944  ... 536  190  3,13&50  36.1  16.52  
1945  ... 330  119  3,569.50  34.5  29.99  
1946  ... 330  114  1,191.07  34.6  10.45  
1947  .,..:  .. 746  258  3,581.00  37.2  10L45  
1948 '.  ...1079  401  5,033.70  37.9  12.55  
1949  ...1443  547  6,92147  24.5  12.66  
..1203  295  3.748.12  53.1  12.71  
1951  ... 946  502  2,444.87  4.87  

course be included in the Class totals * Exclusive of religious and deceased for the calendar year 1952 as reflected in the Tenth Annual Alumni Fund. 
ar. BdA/ard J. Iracey Jr. 
1227 Gid Boalobarg Rd.. 
State College. Pa. 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Announces 

THE MORRIS INN 
"on the campus" 

Will Open in April 92 rooms 92 baths Rates from $6.00 Single - $9.00 Double 
•
 Dining Room, excellent cuisine, air-conditioned 

•
 Private Function Rooms, also air-conditioned 

•
 Room Service 

•
 Gift and Souvenir Shop 

•
 Cigar and Newsstand 


•
 Golf, Locker and shower facilities for men guests 

•
 Putting Green 


•
 Radio and circulating icewater in every room 

•
 Parking area, paved and lighted, adjoining 


F
OR the many friends, the Alumni, and the Parents of the Student Body of Notre Dame, the University is proud to announce the openins in April of its own hotel. The Morris Inn, right "on the campus," made possible by the beneficent gift of the late E. M. Morris, '06, of South Bend, Indiana. 
The Morris Inn will offer its guests unforgettable views of the Notre Dame campus, with its famous buildings and land­marks, its traditional beauty and surroundings. In addition, if you are visiting at the University you will appreciate the convenience of staying at the school, saving you much travel time. 
Guest accommodations include single, double and twin-bedrooms, also parlor and bedroom suites. The air-conditioned Private Function Rooms will accommodate from just a few to sizeable groups and are ideal for civic, social and business luncheons, dinners, receptions, meetings, etc. The beautiful ~^! 
Terrace Dining Room is also air-conditioned and will serve 
excellent cuisine. Room service will be available to those who v/ish to dine in the privacy of their rooms. Other fea­tures of the Inn include cigar and newsstand, G'rft and Sou­venir Shop, Golf, with shower and locker facilities for our men guests and a large, well-lighted and paved parking area. 
RESERVATIONS ARE NO W BEING ACCEPTED 
E. H. Hunt, Manager 








