The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
tl tllltllltllltll*MlllllllilllUIMIMMMMI limtllMMUMI MMtlMIMIIIHIMIMHM*«IHtllttllllllltMIMMIMMQ 
COMMENT 
How to make the point \vith­
out alibi-ing is puzzling the Ed­itor. 
This issue of the ALUMNUS represents a 100% honest pur­pose to pay a small tribute, on the part of a group that has a distinct obligation, to Knute Rockne, alumnus of Notre Dame. 
There have been obstacles, the largest of which has been time. The scope and the quan­tity of tributes paid to Rock by the outside world have made selection for a representative display a matter of study and concentration. 
Neither of these have been possible to any extent for this May ALUMNUS. 
The issue therefore lays no claim to a presentation of all that is best. 
It does claim to give alumni a few of those many fine things said about Rock which Notre Dame men of all times ^vill cherish. 
It attempts, in some measure, to portray the vast reaches of Rockne's influence; to bring home the national character of the man, \vith the resulting good to Notre Dame. 
It attempts to treat the ob­jects of the tribute as always a Notre Dame man, the man whom Rockne knew, loved, worked for, and, above all, was. 
That the reports of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, the Commencement program, the gift of the Engineering Build­ing, and a new high record in Class Secretarial achievement should have come in the same issue, brings to them a subordi­nation that the Editor regrets exceedingly, but which' they, as 

IN TtilS IJJUE 
Views of Rockne in Life and DeatK-.Frontispiece Rockne's Tragic Death Shocks Nations, by Thomas Coman; '25 291 

The  Everlasting Arms,  sermon  by Rev. Charles L.  
O'Donnell,  C.S.Cl  :.  299  
Happy Landing, by Christy Wa lsh  -301  
Telegrams and Editorial  Comment  -^  -302  
Views of Rockne's Life  ­ -320  
Poems of Rockne  :  -322  

John F. Gushing Gives $300,000 Engineering Building_ -328 1931 Commencement Program :: -331 The Alumni Clubs -337 The Alumni , : -344 
The magazine is published monthly during the Bcholmstie year by the Alomni 
Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indianja. The 
subscription price is S3.00 a year; the price of ainsle copies is 25 cents. The 
annual alumni dues of 95.00 include a year's subscription to THE AIJUHNUS. 
Entered as secondM:lass matter January 1, 1923, at the post office at Notre 
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence should 
be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOUC ALUMNI FEDERATION 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration BIdg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
'REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, '90 Honorary President FRANK E . HERING, '98 President HON. WILLIAM J. GRANFIELD, '13 Vice-President JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretaiy WALTER DUNCAN, '12 --Treasurer GEORGE M . MAYPOLE, '03 Director 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 Director 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 Director JOHN W . EGGEMAN, '00 {ex officio) Director 

Q 
• m factors in Notice Dame, will ing planned in many instances understand as no outside per­outside these pages. sons could. They are continu­This issue, with its many lim­ing. They are in the morning itations, is the saga of Knute of achievement. Rockne, of whom we ask only 
that prayer that closed the They are the brighter, re­"Poem for George Gipp—" membering yesterday's sunset. 
"Oh, Lady, you, have taken of our 
Mr. Cushing's splendid gift; 

best the Clubs; the Class of '28, will To make a playmate for the Seraphim;
receive more just consideration 
There on the unde, sweet campus

in later issues, as their works 
of the blest unfold. Commencement is be-Be good to him." \ 




TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume IX. MAY, 1931 No. 9 
Rocknc^s Tragic Death Shocks Nation 
Notre Dame Shares Genius With Nation; Flood of Reaction Reveals Rockne in Unsuspected Roles of Greatness; Countless Thousands Mourn. 
(Editor's Note: FoUDwinff are the stories of the tragic c%'ents siir­rouniiiti^ Rocline's death appearinK in the South Bend Ncini-Tinta^, With the exception of the news story itself, the subsetiuent stories are by Thomas F. Coman. a Notre Dame Kratluate of the Class of 1925. Mr. Coman was for several years a sports writer on the campus, and as such knew Mr. Uockne ver>- personally. The stories received wide­spread commendation. The stories express four important pha-ses of Hockne's influence in splendid styk—journalistic, civic, personal, and the fellowship of Notre Dame. Probably no other accounts could do so much so well.) 
By United Press 
BAZAAE, Kansas, Jlarch 31.—Knute Rockne, noted 

Notre Dame football coach, and eight other men were 
killed in an airplane 
crash near here to­
day. 
The plane, operat­
ed by the Transcon­
tinental an d Wes­
tern .A.ir Express, 
Inc., was enroute 
from Kansas City to 
Los -A.ngeles. 
Rockne was listed 
as a passenger on 
the plane when it 
left Kansas City 
earlier in the day. 
Edward Baker, a farmer, was feeding stock on the Stewait Baker farm, an d was watching the plane as it flew over. 
Suddenly, he said, there was an explo­sion and the ship Voss, NORWAY—ROCKNE'S fell to the earth. 
Tlie plane was flying at a low altitude because of the cloudy weather. First check of the debris showed there were nine bodies in the plane. Members of the Baker household heard the explosion and rushed to the scene, half a mile away. 
The passenger list of the plane which is reported to have crashed near Emporia, Kansas, was given out at the headquarters of the T. A. T. here as follows: 
KNUTE ROCKNE 
J. H. CHRISTEN 
S. GOLDTHWAITE 
C. A. ROBRECHT -A.n unidentified Chicago passenger. 

There were two pilots on the plane, one of whom was Robert Fi-ye, of Kansas City, it was stated at the T. .A.. T. headquarters here. 
The list of victims showed six passengers, including Rockne, the pilot, co-pilot, and the steward. 
The ship was enroute to Wichita, Kansas, and had left Kansas City at 9:15 o'clock Tuesday morning. Bazaar is 30 miles from here. 
Persons who reached the wreckage and flashed back the reports of the tragedy said that the entire passenger and crew list was dead. 
The plane left Kansas City 15 minutes late, held up by the delayed arrival of mail. Rockne was enroute to Los .A.ngeles, Calif., to confer there on business matters pertaining to his motion picture interests. 
The first flash to Emporia that Rock­ne was among the dead shocked the en­tire world and busi­ness and industry halted while all sources of communi­cation were placed into service to de­termine the truth of the report. 
Knute Rockne broke into the coach­ing game under Jesse Harper at Notre Dame in 1916 after having played a star game at end for three years on the teams of 1911­12-13. 

 BIRTHPLACE Rugaed, Clean .A.fter taking his degree from Notre Dame in science, he turned to the teaching of chemistry. During 191G and 1917, he helped Harper build the pre­war teams, and then took over the head coaching reins in 1918. 
His success in these years was unusual, yet still in its infancy. The fonvard pass was coming into greater play, and Rockne added to its development each year. 
His success quickened in the 14 years, bringing Notre Dame to the pinnacle of fame in the football work with light, fast teams, whose power, speed and deception were unmatched in the history of sport. 
Rockne came to Notre Dame in 1910 from Chicago, with only a few hundred dollars and a wealth of ambition and resourcefulness. He had played football and baseball and ran in ti-ack meets on the sand lots of Chicago. The achievements of Walter Eckersall inspired him. He thought once of going to Illinois, but friends persuaded him to go to Notre Dame and play football because he would have a chance to work his way through school at the South Bend institution. 
Rockne's big flash on the football horizon was in 1913 
Avhen Notre Dame beat the Army at New York, 35 to 13. 
This was the debut of the forward pass in the East at the 
time of its most advanced development. Dorais threw the 
passes to Eockne and Knute, at end, raced over the goal 
line. 
In his boyhood days, Eockne became familiar with the 
game of hard knocks. He had to work night and day to 
earn the money which he was to spend on his college 
education. 
The Chicago postoffice found him as a mail dispatcher, 
and a short time later he went on the lakes as an inland 
seaman. In his few hours he turned his attention to the 
games of the sandlots, and excelled as a pole vaulter long 
before he thought he could play football. 
Eockne arrived in Chicago 40 years ago with his father 
•and mother, brothers and sisters from their home in Nor­way. His father was a craftsman and came to this coun­try to exhibit a carriage model. The Eockne family stayed, and Knute, the genius, raced ahead through life to became one ofthe most colorful figures in world sport. 
The last two years of Coach Rockne's career as the 
greatest football coach in the nation were filled with glory 
for his team and the University, but were clouded by the 
illness of Eockne himself. Undaunted, however, by an 
ailment which kept him in bed for many weeks and in a 
wheel chair for many more, Rockne showed his dynamic 
power even wlien he had to direct his team from his bed. 
The first intimation of the long illness that was to keep 
the Noti'e Dame coach at home during the 1929 season 
while his team, directed on the field by his assistants, 
marched to a national championship, came eai'ly in October 
of that year. At the Indiana game on October 5, Rockne, 
sitting on the bench along the sidelines, was severely 
kicked in the leg during a play that crossed the line. 
His ailment did not appear serious until the following 
Wednesday when he was ordered by his physician to cur­
tail his appearance on the practice field. A blood clot 
had foi-med in a vein in his leg and threatened to be 
serious if neglected. The real calamity did not become 
apparent until the ne.vt day, when Dr. E. L. Sensenich 
was adamant that Eockne should not make the trip to 
Baltimore with the Notre Dame squad for the annual game 
with the U. S. Naval academy. 
Assistant Coach Tom Lieb assumed the director's post 
with the squaH when it entrained and Coach Eockne was 
kept in bed by his doctor's orders. But Eockne, sitting in 
bed, surrounded by a crowd of his South Bend friends, 
heard the play by play account of the game over long­
distance telephone. Before the start of the game he had 
talked personally to every member of the squad, cheering 
them to a victoi-y. 
But the next week, despite the warning of physicians, Rockne returned to the practice field, and sitting in his automobile, directed his squad in their daily drills, while 'the active work was handled by his assistants. Even then the famous mentor hardly could curb himself from limping out onto the field when he wished to demonstrate some­
thing which he could not put into words. 
As a result of his determination, he went with the team to the Carnegie Tech game at Pittsburgh that week-end and sat on the sidelines in a wheel chair. The sight of their coach sitting immovable, showing clearly in his face the pain which he was undergoing, yet determined to see them through in spite of his own inconvenience and even danger, inspired that Notre Dame squad to a victory which might have been impossible without the presence of their coach. 
Bockne made one other trip that season, to the South-em California game in Soldier field, but finally was forced to let his assistants handle his team for the remainder of the games. When the Irish played the Anny in New-York, the final game of the season, which crowned Notre Dame champion for 1929, the Notre Dame coach again received reports by telephone of the progress of the game. 
At the close of the season, he went immediately to the Mayo Brothers' clinic at Rochester, Minn., for a com­plete rest, and from there returned to South Bend, still in his wheel chair. After remaining here he went to Miami, Fla., w^here he made rapid progress toward re­covery. But a sudden relapse came, and the word was received in South Bend that his condition was critical. 
As a result he was rushed back to the Mayo clinic and there at last the experts were able to curb the disease that threatened his life. It was' a real homecoming for Rockne that spring, as with Mrs. Eockne and several of his assistant coaches, he walked blithely from the ti-ain in the Union station here to his waiting automobile. 
But as soon as he returned to the city he was back again on the practice field supervising the spring drills of the squad that the next fall again was to triumph over all opposition and win its way to another national cham­pionship. 
Every afternoon before leaving his office, he adjusted the rubber bandages which swathed both legs to the knee. These were to prevent a recurrence of the blood clot that had come close to closing his career the previous fall. On the field a tower was erected, provided with a loud speak­er system, by which he could direct the squad of 125 players in any part of the large field. 
But he refused to use it—and thus one of the student managers became known as the "chair-bearer to the king." Every time Rockne paused in his work of directing the squad, the youth was at his elbow, proffering the chair. Sometimes Eockne used it, other times he ignored it ab­solutely, and on some occasions, dismissed the chair-bearer with a curt nod, a wave of his hand. 
Knute Eockne had a wide and varied field of interests in addition to the profession which won him his highest fame. 
His natural wit, common sense and incisive, staccato style of delivery made him a highly successful public speaker. In recent years he had been associated with the Studebaker corporation, giving inspirational "pep talks" to its salesmen. Only within the last week or so his duties along that line had been increased, although it was not his intention to allow them to interfere with his duties at Notre Dame. 
Rockne was one of the few celebrities in the athletic world who wrote his o^vn material. No ghost writer was necessary for the coach. His magazine and newspaper articles were always readable and entertaining. He was the author of a book on coaching. 
The summer months seldom brought much let-up in Rockne's activity. The coaching schools which he con­ducted brought eager students—often coaches themselves —from far and wide. Motion pictures were another field in which the coach's work was publicized, as he helped in the direction of a series on the science of football. 
At the close of the past season, Eockne, showing the result of strain through which he had gone, returned to the Mayo clinic for an examination and was ordered to curtail all his speaking appearances. But this the Irish mentor could not do. From there he went to New York where an alumni team was playing a charity game. He went to Florida, and instead of the rest which he hoped to get, he made speech after speech. Even after return­ing to South Bend he was unable to get the rest which he hoped to find in his attention to spring practice. 
The trip by air during which he was killed was to fill a speaking engagement "because he did not want to let a friend doi,vn." Mrs. Rockne, who now is enroute north by motor from Florida, was not aware Tuesday afternoon of the tragedy. 
APRIL 1 

Knute Rockne will come home tonight to the scene of his triumph, his career ended and his life spent. 
From the Kansas prairies where he met sudden and tragic death in the crash of an airliner Tuesday morning, his body will be brought back to the Union station at South Bend where so often in other years he came home with his football team, sometimes in de­feat, but more often in victory. 
The city will not roar tonight with the cheers for a victory team and its coach. There will be no crowds to surge forward in wild acclaim for the genius of the gridiron, no bands, no noise, nor cries for speeches from "Eock." 
The body of Knute Rockne is scheduled to CHEJUSTRY 
The selection of a day for the funeral services on the 
•Notre Dame campus for Knute Rockne has been deferred pending the arrival here Thursday of Mrs. Rockne and her two children. 
Mrs. Rockne was preparing to leave Miami, Fla.,- for her South Bend home Tuesday when the news reached her that her famous husband had died in an airplane crash. With her at the time were the two younger Rockne children, Mary Jean and Jackie. 
Too young to realize the magnitude of the tragedy that left them fatherless, the youngsters turned to play while Mrs. Rockne steeled herself against the force of the shock and turned homeward. ' 
Two years ago she made another nerve wracking trip, that time with Rockne. They were speeding home from Los Angeles, staggered by the report that the life of 
their youngest boy, Jackie, was in peril after a peanut had be­come lodged in his lung. 
The campus at No­tre Dame and the streets and homes of South Bend Wednesday reflected the gloom and the sorrow that fell like a pall over millions from coast to coast when the news of Rockne's death was flashed out to the world. 
In the Church of the Sacred Heart on the Notre Dame campus early Wednesday morn­ing, 2,000 students knelt before the high altars while the Rev. Charles 
L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, read the low mass. Throughout the serv­ices a constant stream 

 HALL of young men who had 
reach South Bend at "^c ivoiiUl have been a great chemist." cheered and prayed for 
about 11:20 o'clock Wednesday night, according to plans agreed upon in Kansas City and Chicago, Wednesday morning. 
Dr. D. M. Nigro, of Kansas City, a close personal friend of the Notre Dame coach to whom Mrs. Bonnie Rockne entrusted the details of the funerai, went to Cot­tonwood Falls,( Kansas, Tuesday afternoon and had the body taken to Emporia. 
From Emporia the body was sent to Kansas City Tues­day night, and at 8:05 o'clock Wednesday morning. Dr. Nigro's party started back for Chicago and South Bend on the Santa Fe. The party will reach Chicago at 7:45 o'clock Wednesday night and the body will be transferred to a New York Central train leaving for South Bend at 
9:15 o'clock. 
In Dr. Nigro's party leaving Kansas City for South Bend are the two oldest sons of Rockne, William, 14, and Knute, Jr., 11. There is also the Rev. Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president of the university and chairman of the faculty athletic board. Assistant Coaches Heartly Anderson and Jack Chevigny, and Howard "Cap" Ed­wards long one of Rockne's closest associates. 
Rockne and his teams on the football fields, approached the sanctuary railing to receive the Holy Communion. Here Rockne had knelt a few years ago and received the Sacred Host that made him one with the church and school with whom he spent the greatest years of his life. 
This was the Host of life—eternal life, the saving grace. It was a faith at its strongest. Among these students, their sorrow yielded to nothing else except the will of God. The devotion they gave Knute Rockne, in life, they gave to him more fully in death. 
Nothing has happened on the campus or in the city in the past decade that has struck such a stunning blow as the death of Rockne. Certainly nothing has happened in all the history of the University that has left such a shock. 
President O'Donnell surveyed the furore and the trem­bling on the campus Tuesday, knowing that the shock 
•would be felt, not for days or months, but for years. Into the troubled scene he stepped and took command, calm, deliberate, full poised. He issued his orders and made his plans, everything carefully conforming to dignity and personal feeling. 
The editors of the SCHOLASTIC, the campus news weekly, 
mshed an extra edition to the students a few hours after 
the death of Eockne, carrying the story of his life and 
fame, and the mourning of the men who ran, passed and 
plunged their way to victor}' on the gridiron. 

In the homes, the offices, cafes and hotels of the city 
there is but one topic of conversation. Everybody is talk­
ing of Eockne, sketching back over his life, his deeds, his 
sayings. His death is still unbelievable. 

APEIL 2 

Mourned in death even more than he was idolized in 
life, Knute Eockne, of Notre Dame, killed in an airplane 
crash on a Kansas prairie, was back home again today 
in his bronze, flower strewn casket, waiting for the ar­
rival of his widow, Mrs. Bonnie Eockne and her two 
youngest children, from Coral Gables, Fla., late Thursday 
afternoon. 

The funeral for the football genius of Notre Dame will 
be arranged Thursday night. The day and the hour and 
many of the minute details depend upon the wishes of 
Mrs. Eockne. University officials already know that she 
wants her famous husband to be buried from the Sacred 
Heart Church on the campus, surrounded by the boys who 
played and fought for "Eock" on gridirons from coast to 
coast and before the greatest crowds in the historj' of the 
game. 
The overivhelming throng that will seek to be accom­modated in the church on the campus, however, has raised a serious problem. It has been suggested to University officials that a fitting end to the brilliant career of Knute Eockne would be the singing of the mass of the requiem from a consecrated altar on the green field in the stadium. 
Here the throng could come to pay their last homage to "Eock" within the walls of a stadium that will remain forever his monument and a constant reminder to the world that Knute Eockne was more than a football coach who revolutionized the game; that he was a national figure and his death a national tragedy. 
His pallbearers are expected to be six of the men with whom he spent the greatest years of his life, teach­ing them not to fight to die, but to fight to win—and to live. 
The day of the funeral likewise is contingent upon Mrs. Eockne's return. The Church that hailed him as a' son cannot give its mass of requiem until Monday. 
The mother and three sisters of Knute Eockne who live in Chicago will come to South Bend Thursday night. In Chicago they will join Mrs. Eockne, the widow and her two childrien and journey to South Bend together. 
Arri\-ing here the party will go direct to the Eockne home on E. Wayne street. The Eev. John O'Hara, C.S.C, will accompany the party. 
The strain of the ordeal upon Mrs. Eockne, it was said, Thursday, may necessitate removing her and her family from the train before it reaches South Bend in order to avoid crowds. 
Shut out from the tear dimmed eyes of the world that would pay him homage at his bier night and day before the earth receives him, Knute Eockne's body rested Thurs­day in the McGann funeral home at 424 N. Mich. St. 
The bronze casket has been, removed from the grey metallic box in which it traveled from the scene of his death at Cottonwood Falls, Kan. The casket was closed and it will remain closed. E.vcept for a coroner's jury and officials at Cottonwood Falls, no one has seen the body of Knute Eockne except Dr. D. M. Nigro of Kansas City, long his personal friend. Dr. Nigro brought the body from Kansas to South Bend. 
The homecoming of Knute Eockne in South Bend Wed­nesday night brought a great crowd to the Union station. It was more profound and more reverent than any other gathering that had met the Eockne funeral cortege along the route from Kansas City. These were his friends and neighbors of many years. Scores of them were intimate associates. The tragedy burdened them heavily. It was hard for them to believe it all even when they carried the casket of Notre Dame's coach from the train. They had thought that he would live forever just as they had al­ways known him. 
The crowd began to gather in the Union station shortly after 10 o'clock, an hour before the train was due. In a few minutes there were hundreds in the wait­ing room, and outside parking places had been taken for blocks around. 
Talking was done in subdued tones. The tensity of 
the atmosphere grew stronger as moments passed. 
Especially noticeable was the solemn cast over the 
faces of Notre Dame students. The grief suffered at the 
loss of their leader was complete. They had little to 
say to each other. 
As the time for the train's arrival neared, the interior 
of the station became jammed. The throng pushed to­
ward the corridor leading to the track stairways. Only 
a small group, however, was permitted on the platform. 
They included officials of the University, members of the 
Notre Dame coaching staff, members of the South Bend 
city council, and newspaper reporters and photographers. 
Shortly after 11 o'clock, a railway employee in the station announced the approach of the train from Chicago. The murmuring of voices stopped. 
A moment later the rumble of cars overhead reached the ears of the throng. And something in the very still­ness of it all assured them that their beloved friend had been brought "home." 
The solemn countenances of all in the crowd was-tes­timony to the sincerity of the mute tribute. 
On the platform above the station where a group of officials and close friends stood in awed silence, eyes were dimmed with tears and bared heads bowed as Eockne's casket was lifted from the train. 
Down the ramps it was borne on an express cart and into the midst of the great crowd in front of the station. In a few minutes, students and coaches lifted the metal­lic box and placed it in a waiting automobile. 
As the procession of cars, headed by one carrying the body of Mr. Eockne began to move, the crowd opened a pathway and stood with bared heads as the cortege passed. 
Homage to, Eockne was a tragic contrast to the hom­age paid the genius of Notre Dame in years past. It was a silent shuffling crowd, men with bared heads, still numbed by the shock of the tragedy. In the throng at the station when the body arrived were many of the leaders in this city's business, professional and social life. 
Mayor W. E. Hinkle and a group of representatives from the city council, Bepresentative Samuel B. Petten­gill, Frank E. Hering, president of the national Notre Dame Alumni Association, A. B. Erskine, president of the Studebaker corporation and chairman of the Notre Dame board of lay trustees, George L. O'Brien, Robert Proctor of Elkhart, Carl E. Hibberd, president of the Chamber of Commerce, Dudley M. Shively, president of the Notre Dame club of South Bend, Adam Walsh, cap­tain of the 1924 Notre Dame team and assistant coach at Yale university, Christy Walsh, Frank E. Coughlin, captain of the Notre Dame team in 1920 were among the notables in the crowd. 
The Rev, Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, was at the Union station to meet the Eoclaie cortege as the official representative of the University. He stepped forward to the baggage car and gazed in silence at the casket of Notre Dame's beloved coach. Scores of football players and students from Notre Dame pressed about the train as the casket was lowered to a conveyance. 
Throughout the journey from Kansas, some of the fa­mous coach's friends stood with the body as the train rocked along. At Michigan City and Gary crowds over­ran the platform trying to catch a glimpse of the casket of Knute Rockne. It had been thus at every station up from Kansas. 
Rockne's two oldest sons, William, 14, and Knute, Jr., 11, were aboard the train, traveling with Dr. Nigro, and with their athletic instructor from the Pembroke school in Kansas City, Coach H. H. Francis. 
John C. Graves, representing the traffic department of the Trans-continental and Western Air Express lines, al­so traveled ^vith the party, assigned to the trip by the airplane company whose plane carried Eockne to his death. 
The same train that brought Rockne's body to Chicago from Kansas, also carried the body of W. B. Miller, an­other crash victim. Miller's body was being sent on to his home in Massachusetts, but the crowd at the station never knew. The throng vanished from the train shed in the wake of the Eockne cortege. 
APRIL 3 

In the chill urizziing rain of Good Friday Knute Eockne went home to his own home. His bronze casket, strewn with flowers, was borne by the hands of six ath­letes who shared with him a small portion of fame on the gridirons of the nation. 
In the living room of the E. Wayne street house he will lie in state, his casket closed. Saturday afternoon six stars of his 1930 team will carry him to the Sacred Heart church on the campus for the last solemn rites. In Highland cemetery in the consecrated ground they will leave Knute Eockne to his rest. His epochal career in American history will be ended. 
The world applauded and claimed Knute Rockne for its o^vn. But in death he was claimed by his ividow and his children, and he lies in state today in his home. 
The great and the humble of the world, stood in silent tribute at the bier of Rockne today. Kmg Haakon of Norway sent his tribute across the Atlantic. The. Presi dent, senators, statesmen, government officials, church dignitaries, governors, mayors, notables from the theater, the screen, the world of sports, business and society, all paid their reverent homage. 
The humblest of the living too, join in the chorus of lament. A railroad switchman who in his own small world idolized the Rock of Notre Dame, sent his heartfelt tribute scrawled in pencil. Men, women and children prayed for him. There was no one today to dispute Knute Rockne's place in the hearts of the people. 
The King of Norway who roles over the land where Rockne was bom 43 years ago, sent his cable to the Norwegian consul at Chicago, Olaf Bemts, delegating him to attend the Rockne funeral as the official representative of the crown of Norway. Within the next six months, it had been planned for King Haakon to bestow on the Notre Dame coach the symbol of Norwegian Knighthood. 
In the Rockne home on E. Wayne street Friday, they laid the bronze casket of the coach in a bank of ilowers that came in an endless stream. When "Rock" came home his heart broken widow and children were there to meet him. Tliere too, were his mother, Mrs. Louis Rockne of Chicago, who brought Knute and his sisters to this coun­try 40 years ago, the Rockne sisters, Florence and Louise, and Mrs. Henry Stiles and Mrs. Walter Leggett. Mrs. Huldah Jones, mother of Mrs. Knute Rockne came from Canton, 0., Thursday night. 
His associates in football were also there when "Rock" came home. There were Howard "Cap" Edwards, Heart­ly Anderson, Jack Chevigny, Paul Castner, George Keo­gan, Gus Dorais, Charley Bachman and many of Notre Dame's football athletes. 
Six of his greatest gridiron performers on the champ­ionship team of 1930 will carry Knute Rockne's bronze casket to the grave Saturday. The choice fell upon Tom Conley, Captain-elect Tommy Yarr, Marchmont Schwartz, Frank Caredio, Marty Brill and "Larry" MuUins. 
In the cliurch of the Sacred Heart, and on the gateway to the football stadium the long furls of black and white bunting hung today. 
The pulpit in the church also, wore the drapes of mourning. There on Saturday afternoon the last public eulogy for Rockne will be spoken by the president of the university, the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C. S. C. 
The funeral services which will begin at 3 o'clock Sat­urday afternoon will be read by the Rev. Michael Mul­caire, C. S. C, vice president and head of the faculty ath­letic board. He will be assisted by the Rev. Thomas Steiner, C. S. C, as deacon and the Rev. Raymond Murch, 
C. S . C, as subdeacon. 
The mass of the requiem will not be sung for "Rock" until next Thursday monung. Then 3000 university stu­dents will join the services. 
The arrangements for the funeral were made Thurs­day night at the Eockne home. Mrs. Rockne and her two youngest children who had left their train at Engle­wood were brought to South Bend in automobiles. Sev­eral members of Rockne's family joined the party in Chi­cago. 
The widow of Rockne, deeply wounded and crushed by the tragedy, came home bravely and faced the task of lay­ing her famous husband to rest, with striking courage. Her only desires were for simplicity and to do the things that "Rock" would have liked her to do for him. He was a national figure, but she brushed aside all sugestion of an elaborate ceremony. She wanted him at home, his boys with him, and then to take him to his grave with quiet dignity. It was a. contrast in restfulness compared with his own rushing, busy life. 
The limited capacity of the Sacred Heart church will restrict the attendance at Saturday's funeral services. Admission to the church will be by card only. 
The cities of South Bend and Mishawaka will halt all business Saturday for the funeral services. Shops and in­dustries and offices will close. The South Shore line train and motor bus service will come to stop all along the sys­tem for one full minute at the hour of Rockne's funeral. 
The world will be able to hear the services and the fu­neral oration through the radio. The Columbia Broad­casting Co., obtained permission to broadcast the services. The WSBT station operated by the South Bend Tribune will also place the services on the air. 
Platoons of iiremen and policemen from South Bend and Mishawaka will guard the route of the funeral cor­tege. The Boy Scouts, whom Bockne so often took to his football games, will assemble at the Highland cemetery. 
The Notre Dame alumni club of South Bend has been designated by the university as the official reception com­mittee for visitors and the club members will have fleets of motor cars available at railroad and interurban line stations. Harold Weber is in charge of the automobile ar­rangements. 
At the senices in St. Patrick's shurch Thursday night, the congregation offered prayers for the repose of the soul of Knute Rockne. The Supplication was spoken by the Rev. William A. Moloney in a trembling voice. 
Prayers at the university by students and faculty members heve been offered in the campus chapels night and day. 
Notre Dame's athletes past and present, wearers of the coveted ND monogram formed an honor guard at the cas­ket night and day. 
APRIL 4 Knute Rockne's friends came to bury him today in the consecrated ground of Highland cemetery while a bright spring sun flashed its splendor. They clung close to him to the very last, sat beside his 
bronze casket at his home, knelt beside him in the church of the Sacred Heart and were to follow him to the grave. Trains and motor cars for two days had brought hun­dreds of his friends, his football associates, players and coaches, and his rivals of the football gridiron. Until within an hour of the funeral they continued to pour in­to the city. It was different from excited, carefree throng 
that used to come back for football games. At Rockne's home an East Wayne street scores passed before the flower banked casket, paying reverent tearful tribute to the memory of a genius who dominated the brief history of his time and died when the cup of fame had been filled to the brim. Friday afternoon Mrs. Rockne walked over the slopes of Highland cemetery and selected a plot of ground where Knute •KHI rest. She went to the cemetery with Rockne's mother, Mrs. Martha Rockne, of Chicago; Jesse Harper who coached "Rock" in his playing days; George Keogan, the Notre Dame basketball coach and Dr. D. M. Nigro, the family's friend from Kansas City. Boys whom Rock drilled to two national football cham­pions-will, escort him as pall bearers—^Tom Conley, Tom Yarr, Frank Carideo, Marchy Schwartz, Martj' Brill and Larry Mullins. The class of 1914—^Rock's graduating class—^will serve as honor guard. Among them will be men who achieved national fame on the football greens or the cinder path. They follow:- Al Feeney, Ray Eichenlaub, Gus Dorais, Joe Byrne, Freeman Fitzgerald, Mai Edwards, Ralph Lathrop, Fred Gushurst, Emmett Keefe, Arthur Larkin, Johnny Plant, and Walter Clements. Many of Rock's classmates came more than 1,000 miles to attend. Associates who cherished his friendship all 
through the years while he was ascending to the heights 
will act as honorary pallbearers. In this group are men 
distinguished in business and sports. 
Thousands will line the streets as the cortege passes 
through the residential and business districts. 
It is a gloomy homecoming for hundreds of former 
players and coaches who have come here to tender tribute 
to their old master. The lighter thought is missing in 
conversation and old friends who have not seen each other 
for years exchange glances in silence. 
Jesse Harper, who went to his Kansas ranch after 
turning the coaching job over to Rockne spent much of 
his time close by the side of his pupil in the family resi­
dence on East Wayne street. 
Jinmiy Phelan, "Slip" Madigan, both nationally fa­
mous coaches now, recall incidents of other years in which 
the master played such a prominent part; and athletes of 
later time move forward to listen. 
The Four Horsemen, Crowley, Layden, Stuhldreher 
and Miller—tell of famous rides with their backgrounds 
outlined against the sky of football fame. Rock had called 
this group, of all his stars, the closest to his heart—and 
his ideal. 
Norman Barry, Roger Kiley, Eddie Anderson, Adam 
Walsh, "Cap" Edwards, Chet Wynne, Art Parisien—all 
heroes of former years. 
All of Rock's old pals were back—Joe Byrne, Jay 
Wyatt, Mike Lynch, Frank Hogan, George Maypole and 
hundreds of others. 
Throughout the night and into the morning hours boys 
who contributed to the fame of Rockne and Notre Dame 
held vigil by their coach. They stood in two hour shifts 
—Carideo, Schwartz, Culver, Mullins and others whose 
names made headlines for the sporting pages. 
This was Knute Rockne's last "homecoming" to his 
boys—celebrated in the tribute of tears. 
APRIL 5 

Knute Rockne of Notre Dame who lived so that the world might be the better for his having lived and who died with his faith like a mantle about him, was left to his eternal rest in a grave in Highland cemetery, Satur­day afternoon. 
Grief and splendor joined in the church and on the hill where they buried Knute. Solemnity attended his funeral cortege, and pious men with sad faces gave him the last blessing of the church. Choral voices raised to God the Gregorian music steeped with the lustre and the beauty of centuries. 
From the pulpit in the Sacred Heart church on the campus where he looked down upon the bronze casket of Knute Rockne, a Notre Dame monogram blanket across it. Father Charles L. O'Donnell, president of the univer­sity, paid "Rock" the last public tribute and delivered him to the keeping of the Mother of God. 
His voice trembled with emotion as he spoke. He was no functionary in stately pulpit. He was a sad man, deeply shaken. 
"This is not death but immortality." His voice struck the silence in the church in rhythmic tones. Toward the end he faltered slowly in the anguish of tears. 
To the mother of God we turn in this hour of anguish and of broken hopes and hearts laid waste. She is the mother of sorrows and the comforter of the afflicted. 0, Mother of God and Mother of God's men, we give him in­to thy keeping." 
Fourteen hundred eyes in the church, wet with tears looked up to him. Father O'Donnell spoke more slowly his closing words as though reluctant to face the end. He folded his hands and steadied his poise and spoke once more. 
"Marj', gate of Heaven, we come to thee, open to re­
ceive him. Mary, Morning Stai-, shine upon his sea. Mary 
of Notre Dame take him into thy house of Gold. Our Life, 
Our Sweetness and Our Hope, we lay him in thy bosom." 
His voice was scarcely audible as he spoke the last 
words of his prayer; "Eternal rest grant unto him, O, 
Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon him." 
With beautiful eloquence and the inspiration of true 
faith, he had visioned Knute Rockne's place in the sun in 
his funeral oration. It was the element of simplicity in 
ICnute Eockne's life beyond the stage where he had played 
a glamorous role for millions of men and women that the 
speaker in the pulpit saw as the keynote of the fallen 
genius. 
The world cheered and applauded him in life, demanded 
him for its own. In death it paid him abundant homage. 
Yet, Knute Rockne was just the coach of Notre Dame, a 
husband, a father, a man w^ith a home. Such was Father 
O'Donnell's recollection of "Rock." 
Flanking the high altar as he spoke sat the priests of 
Notre Dame in cassock and surplice. Three former pres­
idents were among them —Bums, Cavanaugh and Walsh. 
Even the humblest were among them, these pious men of 
Holy Cross, trained and studied in a life of denial, and 
cultured to face joy and sorrow philosophically. Yet their 
courage and hearts were strongly tested by the words of 
Father O'Donnell. 
Down the aisles of the church in pew after pew sat generation after generation of Notre Dame men, wearers of the ND monogram. They were there from Hering to Carideo, stars of the fading years who in their time saw their names blazoned across the newspapers of the countiy. They were the living story of Notre Dame foot­ball from its infancy to its zenith. 
They repi-esented the revolution of the game from the days of the bruising, flying wedge, down through the years to Marchmont Schwartz, symbol of a rhythmic flash in a broken field—the handiwork of Knute Rockne. 
It was the gi-eatest gathering of Notre Dame football stars ever seen. One call brought them back to the side of the dead Knute. For them the Rockne system was ended. Thei-e was nc system. It had been the man himself; "Rock" had the knack, the genius. He took it with him to the grave. 
There seemed to be a note of irony in the brightness of the afternoon. Life in the trees and soil was beginning to bloom. The air was softened and the harshness of winter was gone. Life was vivid everysvhere and the desire to live welled up anew. But they were burying Knute Kockne. • 
The afternoon sunlight glistened like a long, shiny ribbon on the tops of the funeral cars as the procession rode up Notre Dame avenue past the stadium to the campus and the church. The line was stmng out for a mile. More than 100 cars rolled in the procession. A murmur ran through the great crowd on the campus as the cars came in on the circling drive. The engines of the motorcycles escort sputtered and clattered. City police in blue and state police in olive drab headed the proces­sion. 
The long line of motor cars sw^pt past the adminis­
tration building to the church.on the edge of the qaad­.. rangle.. The hearse came near the end: of the procession. At the doorway to the church, the body of Knute Rockne was carried in by six bright- stars- of his 1930 team: Carideo, Schwartz, JUuUins,- Brill, Conley and Yarr. The hands of Knute had carried them to fame on football 
fields. Now their hands had to carry him to his graye. 
At the door of the church the casket was met by the clergy. The Rt. Rev. John Francis Noll, bishop of the Fort Wayne diocese, was conducting the services. The Rev. Michael Mulcaire, vice-president of the university, was assisting. Then with majesty and solemnity the church­men performed the ritual. The Moreau choir enhanced the .spiritual beauty of the rites with Gregorian chant, and Mother church gave "Rock" his last blessing. Only a few years ago She had received him into Her arms. 
Through the loud speakers on the porch of the admin­
istration building the voices of the chants of the services 
went out to the throngs on the campus. Through the radio 
the solemn rites were broadcast to the world. 
Two hours before dusk the procession started again on its way to Highland cemetery. The long line of cars stretched out through the city, through the downtown section and out the Portage road. Thousands packed the streets and sidewalks to get a glimpse of the cortege. For years now, they had been thronging these same streets to see "Rock" come home in triumph from some far foot­ball field. 
For blocks around the Highland cemetery hundreds of motor cars were parked, and hundreds of men and women surged through the cemetery grounds to the spot near the Council Oak where Knute was to sleep forever. 
Tliere in an area roped off from the eager crowds, friends had built a wall of flowers from the floral tributes sent from all over the world. Great ND monograms were fashioned with beautiful blooms. The postoffice workers of Chicago had sent a special piece linking Knute Rockne with his early days as a postoffice employe. 
.4s the six players of the 1930 team came up the 
slightly sloping ground with the body of "Rock," all the 
Notre Dame gridiron stars of years past gathered near 
the grave. 
Mrs. Bonnie Rockne, the widow of Knute crushed with 
grief, followed the casket. She was supported as she 
stood at the edge of the grave by Jack Chevigny, the 
backfield coach, and Dr. D. M. Nigro, of Kansas City. 
Standing in this gathering, too, was the mother of 
Rockne, his sisters and his closest friends. 
Father O'Donnell stepped to the edge of the grave and read the burial prayers. He sprinkled the casket still bearing the monogram blanket, with holy water, and recited the prayer, "Our Father." The voices of the crowd carried the responses. 
In a few minutes it was all over. Mrs. Rockne turned 
away from the casket above the grave, her heart torn by 
anguish. An airplane roared overhead, a sharp, fleet 
silhouette against the evening sky. 
The bronze casket dipped slowly into the earth, the crowd turned away. But Jack Cannon and John Law, two of Rockne's brightest gridiron stars still stood at the brink of the grave looking down upon Knute. The tears streamed do«-n their faces. Notre Dame men were crushed. "Rock" was gone, but he left an-impress on his time that will be lasting as will his cryptic signature —"K. K. Rockne." 
KNUTE K. ROCKNE—Scholar and Athlete 
Genius in Early Evidence; Graduated With Honors; Active in Dramatics as Female Impersonator; Interhall Baseball Star; Marble Champion. 
Scholarship and athletics never pos­sessed esential conflict in the mind of • Knute Eockne. 
"Activities," those innumerable chamiels into which the student turns from his academic course, were simi­larly within the University pale, Eockne believed. 
His sincere championship of ath­letics and activity, coupled with the demand for scholarship on the part of the men engaged in athletics and activities, was the result of his own college career. Eockne's life at Notre Dame is proof that scholarship, ath­letics and activities are not mutually exclusive. 
Eev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C, one of the greatest living chemists, is re­ported to have said that Eockne would have made an outstanding teacher of chemistry, the field he en­tered on his graduation from Notre Dame. Rockne, even after he ceased teaching, continued to read chemistry, and displayed a remarkable technical knowledge of the field that often sur­prised those who had considered his academic background tinted a bit to set off his athletic achievements. 
Rockne was graduated, magna cum laude, with.a B.S. in Pharmacy. 
Most of his marks were well in the nineties. His course was preponder­ant with scientific courses in which he had a natural interest. But this boy, who had worked his way through high school and had remained away from college until he could finance his start here, was never narrowed by an immediate interest. In English, and he was foreign-bom, his average was above ninety, and in Philosophy, the stumbling block of many less ac­tive men, his average was 94. 
Those who followed Eockne's de­velopment as a speaker in public have often been liable to the supposi­tion that his development along that line in recent years only reflected more attention given to deeper things. Eockne was always a brilliant stu­dent. 
His athletic record during these yaers of excellence in the classroom is of course generally known. He won monograms in football on the 1911, 1912, and 1913, captaining the latter eleven. Notre Dame never lost a game in which he played during those three years. 
In addition to football, Eockne was a track man, winning monograms in that sport in the seasons of 1911-12, 12-13 and 13-14. Eockne was doing consistently better than 12 feet in the pole vault when that height was 

KNUTE EOCKNE 
Ideal of tlie American Boy stellar. He vaulted 12 ft. 4 in. in the A~A.U. championship meet at North­western, indoors, in 1914. Together with Cecil Birder, M. I. Henahan and John Plant, Rockne is credited with a mile relay of 3 min. 29 sec, in Chi­cago, 1914. He placed on a number of occasions in the shot put. He be­came head coach of track in 1916 and retained that position actually until 1927 when the present coach, John Nicholson, assumed the duties. 
So much for scholarship and ath­letics, brief as is this comment on his early genius. For most men this record would have sufficed. But not for Rockne. 
While he never attempted varsity baseball, the pastime attracted him as an outdoor sport. In one ac­count of a game between Holy Cross seminary and a Corby aggregation called the "Gutter Snipes" Rockne, pitching to Dorais, was one of the stars of the game. .4nd in a later game between Corby and the Kamm and Schellinger Brewery team, Rock­ne batted better than .500. 
Then there is Rockne the marble champion! During that historic pe­riod when the marble championship was at its height, we find this ex­cerpt from the Sclwlastici 
", . . The champion was carried off in triumph. At noon he came again. This time to Walsh, where he played "Rupe" Mills under New Jersey rules, and also to Corby where Knute Rockne, the Canadian amateur cham­pion, went down in three short games. Knute refused to play for keeps un­less the games were played under Canadian rules, but this obstinacy was probably due to fear of being mastered . . ." 
Again there is a Knute Rockne taking the part of Mrs. Smith in "David Garrick," the President's Day play in 1913, and the same Rockne taking the heroic part (in his posi­tion) of Wockle, the Squaw, in "The Girl of the Golden West," the Senior Play of 1914, spending long spring afternoons in its preparation. 
There is another Knute Eockne, playing the flute in the University orchestra. 
Then there is Eockne, working in the summer at Cedar Point, the fa­mous Ohio summer resort, mecca for college boys who wanted to earn something between terms. Even in this period, that, aside from the work itself, would have been welcomed as a period of relaxation by most boys, Eockne's relentless energy was at work. It found a running mate in • Gus Dorais and the story is told of long afternoons on the beach prac­ticing the hurling and receiving of forward passes that were later to confound the football world and pop­ularize the pastime. 
Eockne was a year or two older than most of his classmates because he had worked, part of the time as a mail clerk, before coming to Notre Dame. He was foreign-bom. His fi­nances were hard-earned. 
But ^vith this uphill battle in con­stant progress, he was a brilliant student; a star athlete; active in the extra-curricular things of the cam­pus; personally popular. 
It is no wonder that "alibi" found no place in Eockne's vocabulary. 

Rockne Film at N. D. 
According to an announcement by Joseph Petritz, publicity director of the" University, Paramount Sound News has presented to Notre Dame for permanent use a half reel of film of the late Knute Eockne. The news reel includes a camera interview with Mr. Rockne at Coral Gables, Florida, early in the season regarding the team's prospects for 1931; the last motion pictures ever made of the famous coach when he turned out the football squad for the spring practice picture; the wreckage of the plane at Bazaar, Kansas, and the highlights of Rockne's career at Notre Dame; the funeral, which includes the chapel and cemetery ceremonies; and lastly, a tribute to Mr. Rockne by the Rever­end Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. 

Rockne Funeral Sermon By 

THE EVERLASTING ARMS The Rev. Charles L. O'Vonnett, C.S.C. 
"Lord, thou hast proved me and knojvn me: thou hast knoiun my sit­ting doivn and my rising up. 
Tliou Jiast understood my thoughts afar off: my path and my direction tlimc hast searched ojtf. 
"And thou hast foreseen all my ways. . . . 
"Behold, 0 Lord, thou hast knoivn all things, the last and those of old: thou hast formed me, and hast laid thy hand upon me. 
"Whither sliall I go from thy spirit? or whither sliall I flee from thy face? 
"If J ascend into heaven, thou art there: if J descend into hell, thou art present. 
"If I take my wings early in the morning, and divell in the uttermost parts of the sea: 
"Even there also shall thy hand lead me: and thy right hand shall hold me. 
"And I said: Perlmps darkness shall cover me: and night shall be my light in my pleasures. 
"But darkness sliall not be dark to thee, and night shall be light as the day: the darkness thereof, and the light thereof are alike to tliee. 
"For thou liast possessed my reins: 

thou  hast protected  me  from  my  
mother's  womb.  
"I  will  praise  thee,  for  thou  art  

fearfully magnified: %ii<mderful are thy works, and my soid knotveth right ivell. 
"My bone .is not hidden from thee, which tlwu liast made in secret: and my substance in the loiver parts of the earth. 
"Thy eyes did see my imperfect being, and in thy book all sliall be iuritten."^Psalm 138. 
And I heard a voice from heaven saying to me: Write: Blessed are the dead, who die in the Lord. From henceforth noiu, saith tlie Spirit, tliat they may rest from their labors; for their works follotu them.—Apoc. xiv, 
13. 
'"Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord." These comforting words, in this hour of sorrow, derive their comfort from belief in the existence and the benevolence of God. Who is the Lord in whom we live and move and are, in whom it is a blessedness to die? Let Himself answer: "I am Who am." "I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end." He is that necessary, self-existent Being, demanded by our reason and revealed by His own handiwork as the only key, the only satisfactory intellectual explanation of the riddle of life. Sought and found by our reason, He is further guaranteed by that exercise of our reason and our will combined, which, aided by help from Him, is the supernatural act of faith. 
By the light of our own natural faculties which He gave us, and by the beam of that divine illumination which also is His gift, we know Him as the cause of all things and the last end of all. Moving of Himself out of the uncounted ages of His eternity. He brought into being all things that are. Life, the power of life, that is His creation; from Him it comes, from Him alone. As human study proceeds, each advance of science opening new doors toward the hidden center of knowledge, widening in ever-extending directions the horizons of fact, which in their turn enlarge the reaches of human dreams, grander and more august, wiser and kinder we find Him to be who is the cause and source of all. Yet, when everything is reported of the splendor of our dis­covery of Him, it must fall short of that original postulate of our reason and our faith that names Him infinite. "0 the depth of the riches of the -ivis­dom and of the knowledge of God. How incomprehensible are His judg­ments, and how unsearchable His ways. For who hath knoivn the mind of the Lord? Or' who hath been His counsellor?" (Rom. XI, 33, 34.) He is "Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end." 
He is the master of the universe. He is the lord of life and death. He is the lodestar of our destiny. He is the captain of our soul. All lands are His, all seas and the uncharted em­pire of the sky. "Whither shall I go from Thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from Thy face? If I ascend into heaven thou art there. .. . If I take my wings early in the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea: even there also shall Thy hand lead me: and thy right hand shall hold me." For, let us mark the greatest mystery of all: this Supreme Being, this God of majesty and power, is a God of tenderness and love. 
'reacJiing from end to eiiii mightily and ordering all things sweetly.' "What gray hairs are on the head of Judah whose' youth is renewed like the eagle's, whose feet are like the" feet of harts, and underneath the Everlasting Arms." 
But, oh, this Infinite God, who fills all time and space, gentle Father though He be, is infinitely remote, it will be said; He is vague and im­personal to the heart of man, reach­ing out, as by his nature he must, to clasp a friendly hand, straining to catch the tones of a human voice. Ah, that need too He has foreseen and answered and provided for. The Word was made flesh and dwelt amongst us, and dwells amongst us still. This very week the whole world keeps remem­brance of His life. His passion, and His death. His sacrifice of Himself for our sakes. He came to be our Brother; He came to prove Himself the great Lover of mankind. For un­counted millions of men that proof has been conclusive, and will be ac­
•cepted as the perfect proof till time is no more. 
In this holy week of Christ's passion and death there has occurred a tragic event which accounts for our presence here today. Knute Rockne is dead. And who was he? Ask the President of the United States, who dispatched a personal message of tribute to his memory and comfort to his bereaved family. Ask the King of Norway, who sends a special delegation as his personal representatives to this sol­emn service. Ask the several State legislatures, now sitting, that have passed resolutions of sympathy and condolence. .4sk the university sen­ates, the civic bodies and societies without number; ask the bishops, the clergy, the religions orders, that have sent assurances of sympathy and prayers; ask the thousands of news­paper men, whose labor of love in his memory has stirred a reading public of 125,000,000 Americans; ask men and women from every walk of life; ask the children, the boys of America, ask any and all of these, who was this man whose death has struck the nation with dismay and has every­where bowed heads in grief. 
Was he perhaps a martyr who died for some great cause, a patriot who laid down his life for his country, a 

statesman, a soldier, an admiral of 
the fleet, some heaven-bom artist, an 
inventor, a captain of industry or 
finance? No, he was Knute Rockne, 
director of athletics and football 
coach at Notre Dame. He was a man 
of the people, a husband and father, 
a citizen of South Bend, Indiana. 
Yet, had he been any one of these per­
sonages that have been mentioned, the 
tributes of admiration and affection 
which he has received could not be 
more universal or more sincere. 
How is this fact to be accounted for? What was the secret of his irresistible appeal to all sorts and conditions of men? Who shall pluck out the heart of his mystery and lay bare the inner source of the power he had? When we say simply, he was a great American, we shall go far towards satisfying many, for all of us recognize and love the attributes of the true American character. When we say that he was an inspirer of young men in the direction of high ideals that were conspicuously exem­plified in his own life, we have cov­ered much that unquestionably was true of him. When we link his name with the intrinsic chivalry and ro­mance of a great college game, which he, perhaps, more than any other one man, has made finer and cleaner in • itself and larger in its popular appeal, here, too, we touch upon a vital point. But no one of these things, nor all of them together can quite sum up this man whose tragic death at the early age of forty-three has left the country aghast. Certainly, the circumstances of his death do not furnish the 

I do not know the answer. I would not dare the irreverence of guessing. But I find myself in this hour of piteous loss and pained bewilderment recalling the words of Christ: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy 
•whole heart. This is the first and greatest commandment. And the second is like unto this:, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself-" I think, supremely he loved his neighbor, his fellowman, with genuine, deep love. In an age that has stamped itself as the era of the "go-getter"—a horrible word for what is all too often a ruth­less thing—he was a "go-giver"—a not much better word, but it means a divine thing. He made use of all the proper machinery and the legiti­mate methods of modem activity to be essentially not modem at all: to be quite elementarily human and Chris­tian, giving himself, spending himself like water, not for himself, but for others. And once again, in his case, today is raised in blessing above his most illustriously is verified the coffin. He might have gone to any Christian paradox—he has cast away university in the land and been gladly to keep, he has lost his life to find it. received and forever cherished there. 
This is not death but immortality. But he chose Our Lady's school, Notre Dame. He honored her in his life as 
We who are here are but a handful a student, he honored her in the mon­of his friends, come to pay our last ogram he earned and wore, he honored tribute of devotion to his mortal re­her in the principles he inculcated and mains, to give some token of our 
the ideals he set up in the lives of the 

affection that so be his dear ones, his young men under his care. He was her loving vdfe and children, his venerable own true son. 
mother and his sisters, may in their sorrow be a little comforted by our To her we' turn in this hour of an­sympathy and the knowledge that we guish and of broken hopes and hearts too loved him. Of necessity, we are laid waste. She is the Mother of Sor­few in number in this hallowed place, 
rows and the Comforter of the 

though thousands are without the Afflicted. O Mother of God, and doors. But we represent millions of Mother of God's men, we give him in­men and women like ourselves who to thy keeping. Mary, Gate of are here in spirit, in the very spirit Heaven, we come to thee, open to re­of these solemn services, and listening ceive him. Mary, Morning Star, shine all over America to these holy rites. 
upon his sea. Mary of Notre Dame, take him into thy House of Gold. 

It is fitting he should be brought Our Life, Our Sweetness, and Our here to his beloved Notre Dame and Hope, we lay him in thy bosom. that his body should rest a little while in this church where the light of 
Eternal rest grant iinto him 0 Lord,

Faith broke upon his happy soul, 
and let perpetual light shine upmi

where, the waters of Baptism were 
him. 

poured on his brow, where he made his first confession, received his first May his soul and the soiils of all the Holy Communion, and was confirmed faithful departed, through the mercy by the same consecrated hand that of God rest in peace. Amen. 






\ 1 WH 
1

1 1 
%^ v^Aimr\ i 1. 
\ 1 1 
1E 
,i 

J \ 
*• 
':\. :•• i-'• • *W • -': -:^- V.F'^'^^'>-'il|i-^ 1 j: k^< 
•' * -/ .--gg^S _ * '^.' * jr-^ '|jt 
Ili'V'-,' 

* '•---^^ • ' =-<-K^' '^ ^ 
* i^i^H 
.: '•I i, ^^^^II^BBE!S?%!S^!!vHKJnif i'fib^^^^l^^BI 
CONSOLATION 

"Queen of Death and deadly weeping Those about to live salute thee. 
Youth untroubled; youth untorttired; Iiateless tvar and harmless mirth And the Neiv Lord's larger largesse Holier bread and happier circus, 
SiJice the Queen of Sevenfold Sorrow has brought joy upon the earth." 
(From The .Arena, by G. K. Chesterton.) 

"HAPPy LANDINGS" Rockne's Religion 
Radio Tribute to Knute Rockne by Christy Walsh 
Broadcast at Notre Dame University 
Saturday, April 4, 1931—5:15 P. M. 
Well, Rock—you and I have broad­cast often in the past but this is the first time I ever talked to you in a radio studio without your wrinkled, smiling face beaming into this old microphone. 
Strong men—old football stars—ro­bust athletic leaders of the type you typified and glorified, are stunned and weeping in this improvised broadcast­ing booth—^located near that modest old office, which you occupied and loved these many years. 
It is awful tough. Rock! It would be impossible for us to go on but we know you are "standing by" in the great i-adio audience of Paradise. You are listening in to every word of todays' tribute—not to a dead king or president—but to you, a man—the like of which tribute has no equal in the histoi-y of this land. And while you "listen in" you are telling us to "carry on" until the game of life is over and the final whistle summons us to where you are waiting. 
Remember last Monday night in Chicago, Rock? Little did I imagine that our happy and wonderful visit would be our last. I see you now, learing for the train. "HAPPY L.\NDING" were the last words I ever heard you speak and you must be supremely happy today because beyond all doubt, you have landed with the Elect of Eternity. 
I can see you waving goodbye—so cheerful, so contented, so rested, so radiant with returning health. Rock, I hadn't seen you look so well and walk so briskly—since the illness of two yeax-s ago, which your magnifi­cent will-power had finally conquered. 
But your mission in life was ful­filled. You did not need the proverbial three score and ten years, to make your indelible mark on posterity. In 43 fleeting years you had completed your assignment in life and departed as you lived—swiftly and fearlessly. 
But those countless friends who loved you so deeply, are thankful that we had one more look at the Rock of old. God was generous to raise you from the hospital bed and from the wheeling chair—that we might see you restored and remember you healthy and happy—as you had been in recent weeks. 
Oh! if I had only known last Mon­day night was to be your last on earth, how many things I would have liked to talk about. Eemember what you said regarding Gene Tunney? That magazine article telling how some people criticize Tunney for deserting the fight game and aspiring to new ideals. . . . And you replied—^"Well, he's living the WAY HE WANTS TO LIVE. And that's all that counts in life." In spite of all obstacles and regardless of envious critics—^you surely lived the way you wanted to live—and you died the same way— thinking of others, waiting for you in California—thinking of your little family and their welfare and above all THINKING OF YOUR GOD. 
When you saw Eternity through those clouds over Kansas—^you reached for your Holy Rosary. And when kindly hands lifted you from the ground—the Rosary of Notre Dame— the RosaiT of Our Lady—was laying at your finger-tips. 
And that is why a brave little wife rests in your modest home to­night—resigned to the will of Heaven and confident in her heart and in her faith—that you have merely gone ahead to discover another and better home. 
That is why your venerable mother sits with dry eyes and stout Norwe­gian heart and tells us. "IT WAS GOD'S WILL AND WE MUST NOT QUESTION IT." That's what I heard your mother say this very morning, Rock! 
And little Knute Junior—with your blonde hair and other characteristics of your boyhood days, tell everybody —"I WANT TO BE A BIG MAN LIKE MY FATHER. I WANT TO BE A FOOTBALL CO-A.CH." God grant that football and the youth of America may someday have the bless­ing and teachings of another Knute Rockne! 
It is awfully hard for us to under­stand. We will miss the touch of your hand. Rock—the magnetism of your presence—the thrill of your delight­ful humor. But your infiuence, your inspii-ation, your ideals will always dominate your little family, your de­voted friends and the Fighting Irish on the football field. 
Departing on Monday night you said to me, "I'll meet you in Los Angeles" That was to have been yesterday. . . . And I'm still right here where you left me. . . . But some day. Rock—surely, we will meet again. Until that meeting—GOOD­NIGHT, WONDERFUL FRIEND! 
BY REV. E. VINCENT JIOONEY, '16. 
The news of Rock's death was a distinct shock to me. His untimely end brought to a close a remarkable career. He flashed across the pages of American sportdom and secured for himself a lasting place in the hearts of men. He is a great loss to Notre Dame and a greater loss to the boy­hood of America. It is only common­place to say that he stands alone and his record of achievement over a brief span of years will not be equalled in this generation. His rugged personali­ty captivated his players, his school and his countless friends. In private life he played the game according to the rules and his strong character was the i-eflection of a life dominated by principles. 
I shared his friendship over a long period of years and now that he has passed on, it is a joy for me to recall that I poured the baptismal waters on his head in the old log Chapel at Notre Dame. That was on Friday the 14th, the day before the Northwestern game, November, 1925. I gave him his firfi communion on Saturday in the little Chapel in St. Edward's Hall. Rock's boy. Junior, made his first communion that same morning and I know that Junior offered his com­munion for his dad. The night before the Northwestern game, I asked the members of the Varsity to give Rock a present—and they did. With the score 10-0 at the half, the team came on to historic Cartier field and began to function. They used end runs, off-tackle plays and an occasional plunge through the line. Courage, fight and team play—these were the character­istic traits of "Rock's boys" as they carried on. The final score of 13 to 10 completes the story of one of Notre Dame's greatest victories. 
Rock was interested in St. Thomas, and he was pai-ticularly anxious to see the Military Academy make prog­ress. He helped me secure athletic equipment for Academy teams. Not content with this concrete evidence of his good will, he was planning an article for publication on "The Mili­tary School—an asset to education." He also offered to provide a Rockne trophy for achievement in military science, athletics and scholarship. 
Now Rock is only a memory—^but what a cherished link in the golden chain of memories. He did his great­
' est work at Notre Dame in the shadov.­of the -golden dome. A rosary was found near his body after the acci­dent. We should e.\pect just that as he drew his inspiration from the Vir­gin Queen—as she looked down from her lofty throne on the Sons of Notre 
Dame. 

llll>lltMt("(ttttl»Iltltff(l>IMfHltMI(Mtl)l)MII>ltllllMlltl 
0.. 

TELEGRAMS 
Q.. B 
Nowhere was the personal appeal of Knute Eockne more evident than in the flood of telegrams that came to Mrs. Eockne and the University immediately following the tragedy. Here again, the ALUMNUS is not large enough to reproduce these sentiments in their completeness. From the alumni, of course, there was a general response. The following telegrams are reprinted to show the universality of Knute Eockne in a way that makes any other descrip­tion inadequate. 
* * * 

I know that every American grieves with you. Mr. Eockne 
so contributed to a cleanness and high purpose and sports­
manship in athletics that his passing is a national loss. 
—Herbert Hoover, 

President of the United States. 
I beg to extend to you my respectful and sincere con­
dolences in the great loss you have suffered through the 
tragic death of your husband. I know that deep sympathy 
is felt for you and your family in Norway, the country 
of origin of Mr. Eockne, where he was universally ad­
mired for the splendid work he had done for the develop­
ment of American sport. 
—H. H. Bachke, 

Minister of Norway, Washington, D. C. 
The officers and members of Hollywood Council ICnights 
of Columbus moui-n with you in the loss of your distin­
guished husband. 
—Bert Callahan, Financial Secretary. 
My heart goes out to you and your children. My finest 
friend is gone. I know you will rise to the occasion in 
spite of the unfairness of Fate. 
—^Bill Ingram. 
* » » I wish to extend my sjTnpathy. Your husband was a great man and a great coach. I mourn him personally and as a member of the sporting world. 
—^Burton A. Ingwersen, University of Iowa. 
The countrj' joins you in grief over your loss and all ex­tend deepest sympathy. The Navy feels the loss of a true friend. My deepest sympathy to you and family. 
—Jonas Ingram. 
* * * 

While I have never known you personally, I have often heard Knute speak of you and yours and his family. At a time like this there is nothing that a friend can express except his deepest, sincerest, heartfelt sympathy. When I return to Chicago ^vill arrange to call and see you per­sonally. —L. B. Icely, 
—^Pres. Wilson Western Sporting Goods Co. 
Mrs. Jones and I offer our deepest sympathy to you in your great sorrow. A fine sportsman, a loyal friend, Rock was loved by all who knew him. His memory will live in our hearts forever. —^Tad Jones. 
Mrs. Jones and I oifer our deepest sympathy to you in your our heartfelt sympathy. I have lost a true friend, and I shall always cherish the memories of the years of our as­sociation. —^Howard Jones. 
* » * Accept my deepest sympathy in your hour of extreme sor­row. —Lieut. Charles F. Born, 
Army End Coach. 
Qtitit tiiiiiiniittiiniitiiniiiiiitiiiiiiii 
iiiititiiiiiiiiiMiixiii 



EDITORIAL COMMENT 
B 
•Itiiiiii* iiiiiiiiii Q 
It would be impossible for one man to compile or one volume to contain the unprecedented outpourings of edi­torial opinion that followed the spectacular passing of Knute K. Eockne. The ALUMNUS herewith presents only a few excerpts from the stacks of clippings that have come to the Office. It is done with the thought of presenting a cross-section of Rockne's hold on the pub­lic, one of the greatest phenomena of modem journalism. 
* * * Will Rogers, from the shock of a very personal grief, sends the following: "We are becoming so hardened about any misfoitone and bad luck that comes along that it takes a mighty big calamity to shock all this country at once. But Knute, you did it, just as you have come from behind all your life and fooled 'em where they thought you didn't have a chance. We thought it would take a President or a great public man's death to make a whole nation, regardless of age, race or creed shake their heads in real sincere sorrow and say, "Ain't it a shame he's gone?" Well, that's what this country did today, Knute, for you. You died one of our national heroes. Notre Dame was your address, but every gridiron in America was your home." 
* * • 
Calvin Coolidge breaks the impersonality of his col­umn with this tribute: "Knute Eockne is gone. As a foot­ball coach he ranked at the head of his profession. In the 13 years during which he trained the Notre Dame team there were 105 victories and but 12 defeats. Five of his teams never lost a game . . . Back of these achieve­ments was a great man, an inspiring leader, and a pro­found teacher. His training was not confined to the physical side of athletics. He put intellectual and moral values into games. He taught his men that true sport was something clean and elevating. Right living and right thinking went into his victories . . . Rockne con­ducted a course that was only incidental in education. Yet he had a name and fame with the undergraduate world and the public surpassing that of any faculty mem­ber in the country. His activities had the benefit of pub­licity but that does not account for his hold on young men. We shall find that in his constant demand for the best that was in them. No bluff would answer. Fifty per cent would not do. His passing mark was 100. He required perfection. That was why men honored and loved him. That was the source of his power." 
* * * 
An emergency Religious Bulletin on the campus said, "Six weeks ago the Church sprinkled ashes on your head and repeated the warning God gave to Adam: Remember, man, that thou art dust, and unto dust thou shalt return. If we needed a lesson to drive home that truth, that les­son has been given . . . Ivnute Rockne has had a wider influence in developing the ideals of fair play than any other man of his generation; he did it under the banner of the Mother of God. We may feel that she took care of him in his hour of need." 
* * * Frank E. Hering, President of the Alumni Association and Editor of The Eagle Magazine, pays this tribute in 

EDITORIAL COMMENT 
his publication: "Knute K. Rockne is dead. The greatest force in American college athletics—indeed, in American amateur athletics is gone. 
"Millions of Americans knelt at his bier in spirit, though thousands of miles intervened. The President of the United States, captains of industry, social welfare leaders, men and women from every walk of life, even the children mourned the passing of a man whose achieve­ments have astounded the world. He was not only a foot­ball coach; he was a builder of character. He fought not only for athletic honors, but for clean sportsmanship and right living. His life exemplified the discipline and sac­rifice necessary to athletic distinction. 
"Our generation will not see another such prenomenon as this: A man ivithout political honors, without wealth, without the support of powerful organizations, rising to such heights of popular approval as Rockne attained. The only individual in private life of the last quarter of a century who might possibly be bracketed with hira in this rare achievement is Charles Lindbergh. 
"Rockne's life and the honor paid him testify to the recognition of character and worth in our Republic. An immigrant boy from Norway, he worked his way through grade schools and college. He was first a teacher of chemistry at Notre Dame, his Alma Mater, then an assist­ant football coach, and ultimately head coach. Such was his background. Out of his self-created opportunities he wove a life story more colorful, more astounding than one of Horatio Alger's tales of a poor boy 's rise to fame, 
"By Knute Rockne's passing, thousands have lost a personal friend. Hundreds of thousands are deprived of a hero whose achievements added zest to workaday lives. The Editor is among those grievously stricken. He and 'Rock' had been friends for years. As he pens these lines, he finds it hard to realize that 'Bock' will never again drop into the office with his cheery smile and his warm handclasp, for a half hour of the confidences that pass between close friends. 
"But Rockne has left a legacy to the boyhood of Amer­ica. To help our boys grow to men of rugged and un­selfish character and ideals, he has given them the in­spiring example of his own life. 
"Today, Rockne's fame has spread far beyond the limits of the campus at Notre Dame. He is a national figure. The greatest exemplar of clean athletics, the finest in­spiration to the schoolboys of America that history offers, he truly deserved the honors heaped upon his bier." 
* * * 

The Notre Dame Sclwlastic, in an 'Extra' edition, stated: "Knute Rockne is dead. The announcement came shortly after noon today. No statement in the history of Notre Dame has ever had a more poignant effect. 
"When he came here as a student in 1910 to study and to live in the shadow of the Dome, it was realized by his companions that here was more than an ordinary man. His fire, his loyalty and his ability were recognized. 
"Later he became a teacher and assistant coach. Again, men came to admire him, to respect with a feeling that enkindled love. 
"He became coach. -A.nd the greatest of them all. It was agreed. 
"Now he is dead. 

"His football men are stunned. 'We can't believe it,' one of them said today. That this dynamic teacher of all 

TELEGRAMS 

Please accept the sincere sympathy of the Boston College Alumni Association. —^Edward A. McLaughlin, Jr., Pres. 
Brigham Young University where Mr. Rockne held one of his first coaching schools cherishes the memory of asso­ciation with this outstanding character whose remarkable ability dynamic spirit and brilliant personality made him a beloved national institution. We join the remainder of a bereaved nation in expression of sorrow and sympathy, and in prayers for your comfort, 
—-G, Ott Romney, Athletic Director. 

Carnegie Institute of Technology grieves with you in your great loss. Please accept our heartfelt sympathy, —Thomas S, Baker, President, 
Our deepest and most heartfelt condolences. It seems al­
most impossible that we should lose such a friend com­
panion and mentor. Wish we could be present in this 
your hard task and sorrow but sickness just now says no. 
—Mr. and Mrs. Warren A. Cartier. 
* * * 

All of Georgia Tech joins with me in offering our deepest regret and sorrow in the passing of the man whom we all loved and admired. 
—Coach W. A. Alexander. 

Please accept our heartfelt sympathy in the loss of your illustrious husband and sincere friend of the ex-service men. We of the American Legion mourn his loss, 
American Legion, Chicago, 
—John C, McGinnis, Commander. 

Deaf students of Illinois school for deaf, Jacksonville, grieve over passing of Knute Rockne whom they admire greatly. He was at our banquet and gave inspiring talk. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to you .and your chil­dren. I consider Knute the greatest football instructor. Always good to me despite my deafeess. 
—S. Robey Bums, 
**.* 

Words fail me in trying to express my profound sorrow and deepest regrets at being informed of Mr, Rockne's tragic death. Kindly accept my sincere sympathy at your great loss. The Atiiletic fraternity of the entire nation mourns his passing with you, 
—Chas. A, Beyer, 
Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa. 

Permit me as consul for and in behalf of Norway the country your famous husband came from to extend to yourself and your family my most sincere sympathy. His death was indeed a great loss to all of us. Respectfully vours, —Olaf Bemts. 
* * » Please allow the members of the Alabama Football squad to extend sympathy to you and your family in such a try­ing time. Sincerely 
—Members Alabama Football Squad. 

The priests and sisters and the student body of Aquinas Institute of Rochester, New York, grieve with you. Their hearts go out to you and your dear children in your great loss, 'file loss to Notre Dame is great, the loss to Catho­lic education in America is greater, but your own per­sonal loss is the greatest of all. What word of sympathy can be spoken by us to a dearly beloved wife in grief and sorrow, what can be spoken to your dear children as they bend over the body of your husband. We are with you. We grieve with you. Priests and people of Rochester offer their Masses and Communions which they lay at 
TELEGRAMS 
your feet and at the feet of Almighty God. 
—Joseph E. Grady and Faculty. 
* * * All Irish Amei-icans mourn the loss of a great benefactor. His many Hibernian friends grieve at his passing. We will pray that his soul will rest in peace with God. Our deepe.st sympathies are with you. 
Division No. 2. A.O.H., Los Angeles, Calif. 
Leo J. Neeson, President. 
We mourn the loss of our beloved friend "Rock" and send our profound and heartfelt sympathy to you and the fam­ily. B'Nai B'Rith of South Bend, 
Samuel B. Feiwell, Secretary. 
To have enjoyed the friendship of Knute is one of the greatest privileges I have ever had. You have my deep­est svmpathv. —D. X. Bible. 
" * * * Mrs. Carney and I are deeply grieved and our sympathy for you is boundless. The youth of the nation have lost a great inspiration for good, and I, a dear friend in the death of your beloved husband. —Matthew J. Carney. 
Please accept our deepest and sincerest sympathy. We all mourn the loss of a truly great man. —Mr. and Mrs. Howard Chandler Christy. 
The Colorado Schoolmasters Club mshes to express its deep sense of loss and sorrow in the passing of Mi. Rockne, one of our nation's greatest educational leaders. The club Anshes also to express its sincerest sympathy and condolences to you, your sons, and daughter. 
The Colorado Schoolmasters Club, 
—^A. K. Loomis, Secretary. 
My sincere sympathy to you and family in this your sad hour. Knute Rockne was a strong moral force and an inspiration to the youth of our land. Fourteen hundred orphan children at Mooseheart, Illinois will always re­member his timely and inspiring talks to them. 
—James J. Davis. 
* * * 

May we humbly add to that of thousands this expression of our sadness in Rock's departure and sincerest sym­pathy for you and children in your bereavement. We all loved him here. 
—Mr. and Mrs. Clark D. Shaughnessy, 
Loyola University. 
* * • 

Terribly distressed to hear about Knute. Kindly accept my heartfelt sympathy. —Jess B. Hawley. 
* * * 

It is with saddened hearts that we received news of your 
distinguished husband's death. Please accept our sym­
pathy in your hour of sorrow and grief. Yours truly, 
—L. Deibels, Grand Ivnight, Palo Alto Council, 
Ivnights of Columbus. 
* * * 

Seven hundred members of Fargo Council, Ifnights of 
Columbus join in extending sincere sympathy to you and 
your family in the great bereavement which has visited 
you. Mr. Rockne's influence for good was felt by all of 
us, even though we did not know him personally. His 
life and accomplishments will be a constant inspiration. 
—W. H. Clemens, Grand Ivnight. 
* * if 

The shock has left us broken hearted. Accept our deep­est sympathy. Feehan Council No. 749, Knights of Columbus, —H. D. Crotty, Grand Knight. 

EDITORIAL COMMENT 
that was best in the greatest of sports is no more has a bewildering effect upon men that knew him and loved him not only as a coach but as a friend. 
"Members of the administration discussed the tragedy this afternoon in small groups. Their fellow-member was gone. 
"Students gathered in Corby, where 'Rock' as a boy used to live. Everywhere was the same feeling. 
"Into the Church of the Sacred Heart, where Coach Rockne was confirmed several years ago, there streamed hundreds of boys to pray. 
"Since the passing of George Gipp no pall of sorrow has fallen over the campus which may be compared to that which hovers over us today. 
".. . No figure in the w^orld of sports has been so sincerely and so universally loved as this great man. His strength of character, his winning personality, his untir­ing devotion to his Alma Mater have made him a person­age admired and respected by all who knew him . . ." 
• • » 
In a radio tribute, Edgar Guest, among other state­ments, said: ".. . His spirit will be at Notre Dame so long as football shall be played. It will be on every foot­ball field to the end of time. Alive, he belonged to the great University which he loved and served so nobly; now he belongs to every college and every school and every gridiron. Rival coaches will recall his spirit in their hours of desperate needs, and he will respond; boys down through the future will remember Rockne, and be brave; they will remember him, and be clean; they will think of him and give their best to life . . ." 
•« * * 
The New York Times struck one of the outstanding phases of Rockne's death in the foUo^ving: "Millions of citizens who knew nothing about Knute Rockne the man regard his death, in President Hoover's words, as a 'na­tional loss.' Outside the college world a profound sensa­tion of regret at Rockne's tragic death was manifest. Within that world, of course, the grief was keen, espe­cially at those colleges which had met Notre Dame teams on the gridiron. 
"Football has become a definite part of our national life, and the coach of 'the Fighting Irish' was the most personal symbol of football to most people. His methods, a skillful combination of intelligence, strategy and ag­gressiveness; his extraordinary popularity among the youth he dealt with, and his devotion to football as the best athletic activity open to young men—all these joined to make of Rockne a national figure .. . 
"His death in the crashed plane in Kansas, at the height of his successful career as a coach, produced a sensation in this country which reveals college football as a national institution." 
« * * 
Bill Cunningham, in the Boston Post, makes this per­tinent comment based on a statement by James L. Knox of Harvard as follows: "The national reaction to the news of Knute Rockne's death with the spontaneous and sin­cere expressions of sorrow from men in every walk of life should forever silence the criticism that football is overemphasized. What a pity that such a price had to be paid to make a nation think rationally! One man like Rockne means more to our country .than a million re­formers, and if football produces one Rockne in each gen­


EDITORIAL COMMENT 
eration, the nation can ill afford to curtail football." 
Cunningham adds: "The foregoing high tribute to both Rockne and football from the dean of the old Big Three coaching corps is perhaps as fine a way as any to close the sad story of last week and get along, if possible, to more cheerful things. Not only a good man, but, it now develops, a great public figure, is gone, but he would have been the last of almost anybody you can name who would have wanted his friends to sadden their days with re­grets." 
* * * 

Very Rev. Rudolph J. Eichom, S.J., President of Canisius College said about Rockne, in part: ". . . As I listened to his challenging tones ring through the hall, I could not escape the thought that here was a man who would be a power in any profession in life. A Guiding Providence had directed him to the field of sport, and in that field he was the apostle of clean living and fair play . . . Rockne is gone, but his name will remain forever with us, the name of a gallant gentleman, a chivalrous fighter, an inspiring master, who, ^vith a football and the white rectangles of a gridiron knew how to help youth plot the best moves of life." 
* * • 

The South Bend News-Times carried the following tribute: 
The University of Notre Dame being the child of a religious order, it is well fortified to meet its loss. It would be an error to fail to remember now the wells of religion from which the officers and teachers of the uni­versity refresh themselves. Mr. Rockne was a son of Notre Dame. He was a communicant of the Roman Cath­olic church. The men most concerned by his death are prepared daily for the shocks of the world. 
South Bend, populated by all sorts and conditions of men and women, feels the sudden death of ICnute Rockne according to the natures and inspiration of the people. That he has contributed to the good name and the wide reputation of this city goes without saying. That he has influenced the lives and characters of its young men is being generally acknowledged and commented upon by those persons whose station suggests that they publish utterances in the newspapers. Our opinion is that some years must pass before Mr. Rockne's' place in South Bend can be appraised. It will be measured gradually by va­rious lacks that will appear now that we shall have to get along without him. 
American college life and public opinion in the United States have never been affected more by a man in the athletic profession than by Knute Rockne. A man who would have been an outstanding success in almost any profession, the colorful setting of intercollegiate football served to dramatize him in the imaginations of the mil­lions. We venture to say that his death has received and will receive more columns of newspaper space than the death of any American since the passing of the last Pres­ident to die in ofiice. 
But from Rockne the national character one must sep­arate that strange and strangely sweet person who was Rockne the man. Rockne the man was in some ways Rockne the perennial boy. On account of the inevitable intimacy existing between him and the men who make the newspapers, the newspaper men perhaps have a pic-

TELEGRAMS 
We extend to you and family our heartfelt sympathy in your great sorrow. Miami Council, Knights of Columbus, —C. C. Blake, Grand linight. 
Please accept ray heartfelt sympathy and condolences in your great bereavement. America has lost its greatest advocate of its greatest sport, and Universal and myself have lost a friend. ^Carl Laemmle, Jr. 
* * * 
Terribly sorrj- to hear of Rock's death. Please accept my sympathy. Whole country will miss him. —^Ring Lardner. 
Words cannot express my sympathy for you and yours 
in your tragic loss. The name of Knute Rockne is syn­
onymous with clean sportsmanship and virile manhood. 
May loving memories and the homage of the American 
people lessen the poignancy of your grief and bring you 
surcease of sorrow. —Gov. Harry G. Leslie, 
Goyemor of Indiana. 
* * * 
It is with the deepest sorrow and sincere heartfelt sym­
pathy that I try to express to you the feelings of Colum­
bia University Football Team, Coaches and myself. I 
wish that there was something that we could do to help 
you in your hour of sadness. They have taken our leader 
from our midst, but his work and memories will always 
be a monument that will carry us on. 
—Lou Little, Columbia University. 
* * *­
The members of the instructional staff of the University of Wisconsin Athletic Department wish to extend to you and your family our heartfelt sympathy in your hour of bereavement. Many of us knew Mr. Rockne intimately and mourn his untimely death as a nersonal loss as one of America's outstanding citizens. He has left a splen­did heritage for Iiis sons. —George Little. 
* * * 
Please accept the sj-mpathy of Dome yearbook staff. —^Paul Hallinan, Editor. 
* * * 
Deeply grieved and shocked at the sudden loss of your dis­tinguished husband. The football world has lost a great asset, and we officials .have lost a good friend. Please accept my deepest sympathy. 
—Colonel Horatio B. Hackett. 
* * *. 
Mere words cannot begin to convey an adequate expres­sion of sympathy not only for your personal loss but also for the loss sustained by the entire nation. 
—Dick Hanley. 
* * # 
On behalf of the committee on the regulation of athletic sports of Harvard University, I extend to you my pro­found sympathy. A genius as a teacher, a leader of men and boys, his name will continue to exert an inspiring influence for generations to come. 
—William J. Bingham, Director of Athletics. 
» • * 
Please accept deepest condolences from personal friends and admirers. —Har\-ard Football Team and Coaches. 
Most sincere sympathy in your great sorrow. —^Eddie Casey, Head Coach, Harvard Football Team. 
* * * 
On behalf of the Class of 1914, I wish to extend our sin­cerest condolences in the loss of Rock. He was our most famous classmate, but we all loved him not for the great success that was his, but because he was to us the same 

TELEGRAMS 
real fellow that we knew as a student. —Frank Hayes, Secretary, 1914 Class. 
* * * 

Words fail me upon learning the sad news. Allow me to 
extend my greatest sympathy in your sorrow. Most sin­
cerelv, —^Dr. 0. Hichens Glimstead, 
Athletic Trainer, St. Mary's College, Calif. 
Sincerest sympathy in your great loss. Citi' of Belleville, HI., per —Dr. E. C. Heiligenstein. » * » 
We are extending our heai-ts to you in sympathy. Knute 
was one of our dearest friends. The loss is not yours 
alone, but is shared by the youth of America who looked 
to him for the best in honor, clear thinking and virile 
sportsmanship. 
—Mr. and Mrs. Pat Flanagan, 
Station WBBM. 
* * * 

The members of the one hundred eighty posts of Cook 
County Council of the American Legion Department of 
Illinois extend to you and your family sincerest sym­
pathy in your bereavement. Vour husband was ever 
ready to cooperate with any requests made by this organ­
ization in promoting true Americanism among boys who 
entered into the American Legion program and at this 
moment we wish you to know we bow our heads in grief 
at the passing of a truly great American, one who was 
looked up to by every member of this organization. , —^Lawrence J. Penlon, American Legion Commander—Cook County Council. 
* * • 

My heartfelt sympathy in your great sorrow. 
—^Lou Gehrig. 
* * * New York Citj'.­Dear Mrs. Eockne: Won't you and the children, please accept the sjTnpathy and God bless you, of an old man. 
—^Henry Garrity. 
I am hoping and praying that it isn't true, but if it is true may I extend my heartfelt sympathy to you and the children in this hour of our great loss. 
-J^ohn L. Griffith, 
Chicago, m. 
* * » The heartfelt sympathy of every member of Canisius College Alumni Association goes out to you in this sad hour. It was our privilege last December to have Mr. Eockne as our guest. His influence for clean football and honesty in sport will long live. His passing is a great shock and irreplaceable loss. 
—^Henry C. Feist, Secretary. 
* * * State CoUege, Pa. Deepest sympathy in your great loss. Eock was loved and respected by all who knew him. —^Neil Fleming. 
* * * Boys clubs of local Y were holding Lenten service when tragic news came. Every boy present anxious for you to know that you have their sincere sympathy at this time. We, the undersigned, represent the local Association in telling you that we are all thinking of you today. —Edward Wilder, Pres. FideUs Hy Y Club, —Thomas Curto, Pres. Dante Club. Elden Ayres, Pres. Naptune Hy Y Club, Horace Hepburn, Pres. Trident Hy Y, of Asbury Park, New Jersey. 
* * * 

My sincerest condolences are extended to you and your children in your sorrow. 
—Fred J. Fisher, Fisher Body Co. 

EDITORIAL COMMENT 
ture of him different from some others. We believe a number of our contemporaries who knew him intimately, as we did, will agree that the essence of his personality was the attitude of the boy still advancing through a glorious and inviting world; the morning dawning with adventures just ahead; no day like yesterday. 
His football coaching ability can be accounted for only by the single word "genius." The football writers will set down in innumerable columns of review instance after instance illustrating the mind of the greatest of them all at work. It is not for us to trench upon their territory. We assent, however, to the belief that in his make-up was an' intangible and indescribable somethijig that en­abled him to do the extra, the unforeseen magical thing, that made his teams at their best appear invincible. 
Mr. Bockne's death was in keeping with his life. He was not bound by the confines of his job or geography. The whole earth was his apple and from it he took zest­ful bites. He was as likely to be in Honolulu or Paris as in South Bend, and for him to take flight for California was as natural to him as breathing. 
The manner of his premature death should make him a legend. He died in flight before anybody could say that he had reached his zenith. Age and the pressing forward of competitors would have held him to the ground eventu­ally. Eockne a sad and broken old man was an impos­sible thought. He meant action and the continual clash. When an embolism slowed him he was often a pathetic sight because one knew he was miserable at being re­strained. He was a man to burst bonds that would hold an ordinary being. 

• • * Eodcne's place in the football world is expressed in the editorial from the South Bend Tribune: Knute K. Eockne's name was synonymous with suc­cessful football. The movement away from the tradi­tional bone-crushing game dates back to the Notre Dame-Army game in 1913 when the Dorais-Rockne forward passing combination worked so brilliantly that a new era of play was opened. Jesse Harper, the Notre Dame coach, Eockne, the great end, and Dorais, the great quarterback, did not devise the forward pass, but they used it so effectively in 1913 that others were forced to use it. The spectacular "open" game explains football's popu­larity to-day. Up to 1913 the game ranked far below baseball in national estimation. The necessarily short season united with the violence of play to keep football in a subordinate position. The revolutionary game in which Mr. Eockne participated as a player in 1913 was a mild foretaste of what was to come. As a coach he caused refinement of the forward pass and introduced other fea­
tures which have indisputably made football more popular than baseball on the face of daily attendance comparisons. The Eockne-coached Notre Dame teams compiled a record which may never be equaled or excelled. The mythical national championships which were awarded to Notre Dame teams so often that the occurrence became commonplace always evoked some criticism. The critics usually were safe because the weather, the schedules and scholastic requirements prevented elimination contests which would settle beyond all doubt the question of supe­riority. But the skill of Notre Dame players and of their great coach is attested by the football record from 1918 to 1930 inclusive. All arguments engendered by the na­
May, 1931 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

EDITORIAL COMMENT 
tional championship awards lose point on the face of that record. 
In the 13 years that Mr. Eocfcne was head football coach Notre Dame lost only 12 games. In only two sea­sons did Notre Dame teams lose more than two games. In five seasons Notre Dame teams coached by Mr. Bockne defeated every opponent. The Notre Dame-Rockne record is 105 victories, 12 defeats and five ties. The record needs no elaboration. Notre Dame football, Bockne football, has been dominant in the nation. No other school and no other coach has offered serious competition over the long term. 
At all times Mr. Eockne avoided the aspects of pro­fessionalism in the teams that he produced. He always regarded football as a game for all able-bodied students. Opportunities to "make the team" at Notre Dame were denied no student who had the ordinary requirements. The nation came to view the Notre Dame varsity as the ultimate in football, but Mr. Eockne always kept competi­tion on a democratic basis. "If football is a good sport for the varsity player," he said, "why isn't it a good sport for the entire undergraduate body? Granted that it is, I want every boy at Notre Dame who cares to kick a foot­ball to have some place in which to kick it." 
That attitude provided the key to the entire Eockne "system" which has been eulogized by experts. The "sys­tem" was based on thoughtfulness, sympathy and other factors which promoted genuine loyalty to the coach. The young men who played football under Mr. Eockne will never encounter greater appreciation in business and the professions. It is not surprising therefore that his un­timely death has caused exceptionally widespread grief. It is safe to predict that Eockne's place in football will never be filled by a man possessing such unusual qualities in abundance and the ability to use them so effectively. 
* * » 

Eockne's universal appeal is regected in the following from the North Carolina Christian Advocate, a Methodist publication edited by a Methodist minister: " 'The College Man' was the subject of an address delivered by Knute Eockne on board the Carmania as he and a party of 300 or more were bound for the Olympic games in Holland in the summer of 1928, and w^e do not hesitate to say that it was the finest address that we have ever heard on that subject. . . We mention this to emphasize the versatility of the man. As a football coach he became a national figure. But as a lawyer, a politician, a lecturer, or any other profession he would have attained to national emi­nence. For he was king among men. We have not at any time met a man •svith greater personal magnetism— not even William Jennings Bryan. We were surprised to find out how much he knew about North Carolina . . ." 
• * * 

The peculiarly personal element in Eockne's contacts is expressed in this editorial column'from the Houston, Texas, Post-Dispatch: 
A copy desk man emerged from the Associated Press printer room with a long string of copy. 
He spread his paper before him on the desk, quickly scanning dispatches from Paris, New York, Washington, Detroit, Kansas City. 
A few brief paragraphs told of an earthquake in 
Managua, Nicaragua, where 40 lives were reported lost. 
He paused for a moment, visualizing a streamer headline. 

TELEGRAMS 
I had no better friend than Knute. There was no man I admired more. Therefore I have some appreciation of your' great loss and my grieving heart is full of sym­pathy for you and your children. 
—Philip B. Fleming, West Point. 
* « * 
I am with you and the youngsters in deepest sympathy during these days of sorrow and hard trial, and regret ex­ceedingly that I cannot come to say these things to you and to honor Knute. I will say Masses for him and keep him in lasting memento. The Faith to which yon are so devoted will bring to you consolation. Hay his soul rest 
—^Bishop Pinnigan, Helena, Mont. 
in peace 
Please accept my sincere sympathy for you and your, fam­ily. A great man has been lost to the football world. —Frank W. Cavanangh, Coach of Fordham. 
With heartfelt sympathy. Knute Eockne and my brother AValter were wonderful friends. —^Etta Gckersall. 
* * « 
My deepest sympathy goes out to you and your family. The tragic death of your noted husband is a national loss and keenly fdt by all who have followed his long and suc­cessful career as one of the nations leading coaches. May God comfort you and sustain you in this great loss. 
—^Louis L. Emmerson, 
Governor of Illinois. 
* * » 
The officers and members of Santa Monica, CaUf., lodge of Elks extend to you our sincere condolence in the pass­ing of America's greatest exponent of sport and the one great man builder of our nation. His memory will be a monument to all right thinking citizens of our nation. 
Sincerely, —Thos. Eobinson, Secretary. 
Have played against your husband's team at Georgia Tech. 
The whitest man that ever lived. We loved him down 
here at Tech. 
—^Eaymond C. Eubanks, Eome. Ga. 
Words cannot e.xpress my most sincere sympathies in the 
passing of your beloved Knute and my dearest friend. 
His life was" an exemplification of the finer things in life. 
Memories of his masterful teachings will always remain 
with us. All Coe College joins me in this condolence. 
—^Morey L. Eby. 

» * * 
My deepest sympathy goes out to you. It was a severe shock to us who have known him so well. We all have suffered a great loss. Endeared in the hearts of all lus colleagues. Our great esteem and admiration for him will endure forever. The Athletic Department of University of Minnesota joins me in expressing condolences to you now. —Fritz Crisler. 
* * * 
We extend our sincerest sympathy, 
—^Eddie Anderson, Jim Kelly and Ben Connor, 
De Paul University. 
* » * Dear Friends: Please accept my heartfelt sympathy in this vour hour of great sorrow. Kindest wishes, —Jack Dempsey. 
* * * 
Please call on me if I can be of the slightest help. God bless vou and the children in your terrible loss. —Charles E. Dorais. 
* * * 
Mrs. Doheny joins me in expresing to you our deep and 
heartfelt sympathy in your bereavement. We pray that 
God will comfort and sustain you in this tragic hour. 
—E. L. Doheny. 

TELEGRAMS 
Our officers and board of directors extend to you and fam­
ily our sincere sympathy in the loss of Mr. RocToie. We 
feel that a great character has ben lost to us but his ideals 
will remain. 

—^Avery G. dinger, Vice-President, 
First Citizens Tr. Co., Columbus, Ohio. 
* * * 

My dear Mrs. Eockne: Accept my heartfelt sympathy in 
your great loss of your wonderful husband and father. 
Sincerely, —^Mrs. Wm. Conley, 
Mother of Tom Conley. 
American Football Coaches Association extends to you 
and family heartfelt sympathy in your bereavement. 
—W. H. Cowell, Secretary. 
* * * 

Words fail me in my desire to express to you my deep 
sorrow and sympathy over the loss of so wonderful a man 
as your husband. His passing away will be greatly felt 
by the entire country and I sincerely trust you will bear 
up bravely under your great loss and that you will iind 
great conifort in your family and in the host of sincere 
friends that were always yours. 

—Chas. A. Comislcey, 
President, Chicago White Sox. 
* * * The Class of 1930 prays that his soul rests in heaven. —Bernard Conroy, Secretary. 
* ^ * 

Our heartfelt sympathy in your great sorrow. —^Dickinson .athletic Association. 
My grief with you in the loss of Mr. Rockne is almost more than I can bear. Please accept my sincerest sym­pathy in your terrific loss. —^E. C. Lytton, 
Bus Mgr. Drake University. 
* * * Our sympathy and prayers are with you in your, sorrow. —Dominican Sisters, Marywood College, Grand Rapids. Michigan. 
* * * The South of Market boys of San Francisco extend to you and your family their deepest sjTnpathy in the death of your beloved husband. 
—Thomas A. Maloney, President. 
* * * Our priests, brothers, and sisters send heartfelt sympathy and prayerful remembrance always for Mr. Rockne. —Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C, The Bengalese, Washington, D.C. 
* * * Please accept my sincere sympathies. Deply grieved that I cannot be present today. Rest assured I am there in spirit. _E . P. Madigan, Oakland, Calif. 
* * * The five Millers of Notre Dame salute you Rock with love, admiration and loyalty, and with the same understanding, respect and camaraderie that you gave so unstintedly to every Notre Dame man and to all your friends. We are sad and sorrowful because Notre Dame and we have lost your comradeship and your genius and because your dear sweet wife and children are forlorn without you. Always on the throne in the hall of dreams in the palace of the hearts of men will you be enshrined. 
—Red Miller, Ray Miller, Walter, Miller 
Gerry Miller, Doii Miller. 
* * * 



EDITORIAL COMMENT 
His eye ran down the string of copy. The Leo Brothers trial in Chicago, murders, news of the stock market, ro­mances in society, divorces in screen circles. The copy­reader's expression was unchanged. 
Suddenly the copyreader jumped from his chair. His 
face was white, his mouth open. In a moment, he shouted, "My God, Rockne's dead." Like a flash, the cry, "Rockne's dead!" reverberated 
through the Post-Dispatch plant. It echoed through the editorial offices, causing the city editor to rush from his desk to glance at the piece of copy which the managing editor already held in his hand. The artist dropped his pen. An editorial writer rushed from his oflSce, leaving his comment on world affairs in his typewriter. The shout ran through the composing room, down the stairs into the business office. Reporters, printers and executives stared speechlessly at the bit of paper upon which a mechanical telegraph instrument had impressed the words, "Rockne's dead!" There was no feverish activity after the first shock, sin?e a morning newspaper does not issue extras in the middle of the afternoon. It was a big story. The biggest of the year, someone suggested. But it was not of the story that those newspapermen were thinking. "There's next year's team all shot," one man said. "Killed at the height of his career, with two of the greatest football teams in history just behind him," was another comment, "Well," was the reply, "perhaps that's the best way to die. With fame in your grasp. There'll be no backsliding for Rockne now." / Hardboiled newspaper men? There were moist eyes in that group around the copy desk. Men remembered how they had followed Rockne's undefeated warriors through two glorious seasons by watching them run for touchdowns on the prosaic printer in the little Associated Press room, w-hich for them became a gridiron teeming with jerseyed fighters. Rockne. The Fighting Irish. The Rough Riders. The Four Horsemen. Newspapermen are apt to think in terms of headlines. Unconsciously the copy reader was framing a streamer for Rockne's last and greatest story. One reporter knew the great Rockne personally, when he was a student at Notre Dame a few years ago. Someone broke the news over the telephone. "Aw, you're kidding me," he said. Then, when he realized that the beloved coach's career had been cut short, he stammered: "God, that's awful. That'll break the hearts of a lot of boys over the country, won't it? I mean the boys who knew him like I did." Not much like the movie version of a big story break­ing in a newspaper office. But a true picture of the manner in which news of .Knute Eockne's death was received by one group of news­paper men in Houston. 
* * * 

Accept our heartfelt sympathies in your hour of bereave­The mutual attraction between Knute Rockne and ment. America has lost its noblest sportsman. 
boyhood is well expressed in the following from the Cleve­

—C. M, Jennings, Athletic Director, Marquette tiniversity. land Press: 

EDITORIAL COMMENT 
"Knute Rockne never saw him. "He never saw Knute Eockne. "That didn't matter. "Each knew the other intimately. "Between them was a strong bond of understanding. "The boy had a profound respect for Knute Eockne. "ICnute Eockne had a profound respect for the boy. "By some sort of process each read the other's mind 
and heart. "They were heroes to each other. "If the boy worshiped ICnute Eockne it -was because 
ICnute Eockne worshiped the boy. "In a past generation it was Buffalo Bill. "For this generation it was Knute Rockne. "Millions of boys and men and girls and women bow 
in grief at the news that ICnute Eockne is dead. "He was nominally called a football coach. "He was more than that. "For millions he was greater than the president of the 
•United States. "He was the sjTnbol of clean sports and fine sports­manship. "He did more than co-ordinate mind and body on the gridiron. 
"He builded character and courage and initiative and tolerance and persistence, without which the noblest mind in the head of man is worth not very much. 
"When men and boys and girls and women and fathers and mothers from one end of a nation of 125,000,000 to another read thru eyes blurred with tears of the death of ICnute Eockne, the significance of the kind of man he was becomes apparent. 
"ICnute Eockne, who inspired young men to dig their cleats more firmly into the turf of the gridiron and life itself, is dead in a fall from the skies. 
"But, dead, Knute Eockne will live for generations in this country." 
* * * 

Brig. Gen. J. P. O'Neil sends the following expression from the Portland Morning Oregonian,stiU another edito­rial comment on the many-sided talents of Knute Eockne: 
"In the realm of sport there was only on ICnute Eockne. He was a winner of the type that the world loves and it was ready to pay him homage not only be­cause he won, but because he won fairly . . . 
"In reading over the voluminous report of Eockne's achievements and the affectionate and admiring tributes of his friends, slight reference is found to the radio talks which were included in his recent activities. Yet in these talks the public caught a close-up picture of the real Rockne. The interviews on the air showed that he was deeply concerned with the welfare of the young men who came under his tutelage. He viewed football as a builder of character and it was his purpose not only to organize his players in winning teams—^which he did more con­sistently than any other coach—but to develop within them a fighting heart to meet the struggles of later years, an alert mind to help them both on and off the field, and principles of fair dealing that would remain with them throughout life. That is the conception of Rockne gained by his radio audiences and its accuracy is attested by his record at Notre Dame .. . 
"It will be a different Notre Dame without Rockne, for his personality completely dominated sports at that 

TELEGRAMS 

Please accept from me personally and officially represent­ing all the people of Philadelphia the profound sympathy that we are all experiencing at the untimely death of your distinguished husband. I was in Florida when I heard the sad news. Not knowing your address I immediately wired to Capt. Conley asking him to convey my great sorrow to you, the faculty, the student body, and particnlarly the football teams. I am leaving tonight with a number of your husband's friends and admirers to pay our respect to his memory in South Bend tomorrow. 
—Harry A. Mackey, Mayor of Philadelphia. 

Wooster joins nation in paying respect to Knute. May God sustain you in your grief. —^Father Moriarty. 
* » * 

Words cannot assuage your great grief at such a moment, but I wish to attest my depest and sincerest sympathy in the loss of a friend. 
—Frank J. Murray, Marquette University. 

Extending sincere sympathy in your sorrow. —R. 0. Miller, Director Recreational Education. 
More than words can express, we share your sorrow with deepest sympathy. —Meadville High School Athletic Association, Meadville, Penn. 
* * * 

As one who knew and loved ICnute it is hard to express in words my grief and sympathy for you. Knute was one of the finest men I can ever hope to know. In deepest sympathy, —Graham McNamee. 
The entire population of Coral Gables is plunged in sor­row because of the imtimely passing of America'n finest sportsman. Although the world mourns him as a great character we feel we have lost a friend and neighbor. May the God of us all sustain and comfort you in your be­reavement. —City of Coral Gables, 
C. Le McGarr, Mayor. 
* * » 

The good people of this city join in extending our great­est sympathy, —John W. McCarty, Mayor, Washington, Indiana. 
* * * 

ICPO radio station, San Francisco, read at its regular noon day scripture broadcast from the gospel of St. John, chap­ter fourteen, verses one to seven, for the comfort of all who mourn and hope. Heartfelt sympathy from the city by the Golden Gate. —A. W. MeU. 
* » * 

The all too few words we can say fail to express our sin­cere sympathy for the untimely loss of Notre Dame's greatest alumni. • 
—The Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids, Mich. 
* * * 

You have our depest sympathy and prayers. —^Notre Dame Club of Denver. 
. * * • 

We realize that nothing we can say can lighten the burden of your grief, but we want you to know that our deepest sympathy is with you in the hour of affliction. 
—^Norwegian Singing Society. 
H. A. Sunde, Pres.; A. H. Westli, Sec. s * * 

Each member individually of the Notre Dame Club of Syracuse mourns with you and your children m your mis­fortune. Our prayers are for the repose of Knute's soul. —^Notre Dame Club of Syracuse, 
E. C. Schonlau, President. 

THJ! NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS May, 1931 

TELEGRAMS 
Norden Lodge Sons o£ Norway in meeting assembled 
hereby express our deep sorrow over the mitimely death 
of a beloved national character and to you our heartfelt 
sympathy in your bereavement. 

—^Norden Lodge, Sons of Norway, 
Tacoma, Washington. 
Our heartfelt sympathy in your great sorrow. —Norwegian American Athletic Club. 
No words can quite express our sympathy in this time 
of deep sorrow. May every consolation in blessing be 
granted to you and your children is our prayer. The loss 
of Bock is indeed a great one, Mrs. Rockne, but the sor­
row is borne by many of us. We send our united and 
sincerest condolences. 

—^Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania. 
Please accept our sincere sympathy in your bereavement. —Norge SM Club, Chicago. lU. 
Accept my sympathy. Lost a personal friend and country­man too early. —Gustave E. Lindboe, Former Executive Sec. National and American Ski Associations. 
Please accept the sincerest sympathy of the oificers and 
members of the National Football League upon the death 
of your dear husband. As one of his oldest football ac­
quaintances, I feel the game has lost its greatest teacher, 
the youth of America one of their greatest exemplars, 
and our organization a real friend. I want you to know 
that I feel as sorry for you and your little family as one 
person can feel for another. 

—Joe F. Carr, Pres. National Football League. 
* * * 

The Notre Dame Alumni in Toledo e.xtend sincerest sym­pathy in your bereavement. —The Notre Dame Club of Toledo. 
We extend to you and your children our most heartfelt sympathy in this your saddest hour. You have lost a de­voted and loving husband and father. Notre Dame has lost one of its pillars, the country a genius, a scliolarly and Christian gentleman, and the youth of America has lost its hero. —Notre Dame Club of St. Louis. 
Please accept our heartfelt sympathy for you and yours in your great bereavement. Our prayers are with you and for Eock whom we all loved. 
—^Alumni of Western Washington, 
George L. Nyere, President. 
* * * Our deep sympathy goes to you in your affliction. May the memory of the honorable life just ended sustain and comfort you. —National Wrestling Ass'n., Colonel H. J. Landrj'. 
* * * 

Notre Dame men of Cincinnati are sharing with you in your sorrow of the loss of your devoted husband and father and our friend. 
—^W. D. Morrissey, Secretary of N. D. Club. 
Please accept our sympathy in your hour of deep sorrow. Mr. Eockne's death leaves a gap in the lives of all Notre Dame men that will be difiicult to fill. Words cannot ex­press the sorrow his untimely death has caused. 
—Newly organized Notre Dame Club of Wheeling, 
—^W. N. Hogan, Pres.; Geo. Sargus, Sec. 

EDITORIAL COMMENT 
institution. He will have a successor there who may 
carry on the record of consistent victories that Eockne 
built up through thirteen years, but his place as a na­
tional leader in sports was imique and cannot be iilled 
by anyone else." 
* * * 
Jack Bell, a friend of Eockne, writes in the Miami 
Herald: ". . . When life passes from the body of a man 
whose work has been of little benefit to his fellowmen, he 
is soon forgotten. That man is dead. 
"But when Enute Eockne's life was crushed from his 
body, in the fields of Kansas, he did not die. He had con­
tributed much to the world, much that was good for his 
fellowmen. He was more than a football coach; he was 
a master psychologist, a master of men, a keen analyst 
and a keen humorist..." 
One of the most beautiful tributes, and another angle 
on Eockne, is contained in the following from Et. Eev. 
Francis Clement Kelley, D.D., Bishop of Oklahoma, in 
the Southwest Courieri 
"An alumnus, albeit honorary, of Notre Dame, should be ashamed to say that he had never spoken to Knute Eockne and had seen him only once. With all the proper shame I make such a confession. All I ever saw of the wizard of football was his back as we both watched the last game with Carnegie Tech, he from the sidelines and I from the President's box. Yet when I heard of Eockne's death something unusual happened, for tears came into eyes that I thought had long ago shed all they could hold. That was a light triumph for a dead man whose face I never saw. Now I know that I was only one of a miUti­tude who had never spoken a word to Eockne but who loved the kind of man he was. They are so scarce, these 'Eocks' of college life upon whom the weight of a thou­sand confidences can rest and leave sympathetic place for a thousand more. 
"To those who knew Notre Dame well, its history and struggles, it seemed as if it was the last college on earth that needed a man like Eockne. Notre Dame has had so many outstanding educational leaders. There is its build­er, Sorin, standing at the gate in deathless bronze, but in hearts standing as deathless in memory. .There is Corby, there was Walsh and there was Morrissey. Great men and men with vision. No, it did not seem as if Notre Dame needed Rockne. The University may have needed a coach, but Eockne was far more than a coach. He was a son who had inherited what these others left behind them. He had their loyalty, their idealism, their love for Chris­tian education, their never-failing interest in what the school could do in other ways than the way of making mere Bachelors of Arts. For Eoclaie was, in his rough but kindly way, a real educator who knew that boys have souls as well as bodies and that even in football, the soul is the power that wins. 
"For 37 years I have watched Notre Dame. 1 saw the school in some of its years of discouragement. I knew the stories of more than one hope that seemed to die in the flames of burning buildings. And I watched each phoenix as it rose from the ashes of sad defeat, but was never surprised when I heard the whir of its wings, for I knew also the spirit that was bom when Sorin went to cleaning bricks hot from the fire that destroyed the pride of his heart. Notre Dame is like that. It is Sorin. And 

Maij, 1931 311 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

EDITORIAL COMMENT 
Rockne was Sorin without a cassock and a breviary. Per­haps he did not pray as much as Sorin, but he knew he could rely on others making up the deficit. And perhaps he did pray more than we suspect, for Bockne had the spirit that prays in action. He knew that education is dis­cipline, not the discipline that breaks ranks to revel, but the discipline that still holds its grip through-revelry; the discipline that stays always in the soul to keep men in the right path, or call them back to it if unfortunately they wander from it. 
"Rockne was a listed professor of chemistry, but an unlisted professor of human psychology. He knew the in­side of boys as well as he knew the mixtures in his re­torts. Some he knew were explosive, so he handled them with imderstanding. He knew the exact values needed to produce the wanted result. He was so quick in his de­cisions, in his speech, that he seemed to know the right thing subconsciously, just as we know the words of the language we speak when the need calls for instant use. Behind his resourcefulness, his skill and his knowledge of football, was always that understanding of youth which in Eockne seemed an instinct. He must have known that youth bequeaths its virtues to manhood, so he used the power that was his everywhere and always. Nothing could better explain the profoimd emotion that swept over the nation when the news came of his death, an emotion felt by those who had never seen his school, never had seen his "boys," who took only a passing interest in col­leges and college sport, biit who seemed to feel that the loss of Eockne left -imerican education and American sportsmanship in mourning. 
"Notre Dame for a long time will be sad, but Notre Dame has not lost its "Eock." Such men do not wholly die, for they leave to what they loved and for what they labored not a little part of themselves. The great ones of Notre Dame did that and Eockne himself profited. He who had the spirit of the founders will have his place as a permament teacher with them, and it will be a goodly inspiration for the future students of Notre Dame to think of the chunky, sweater-clad figure of their own "Rock" watching with the gowned Fathers over their joint legacy to American college manhood. Just before I heard of his death I had read this line: "The life-giving person­ality is the secret of all that is worth while in education." That line might well be carved on many tombs at Notre Dame, and the tomb of Ivnute Eockne should be one of 
them." • * * The Denver Neivs carried the following fine expres­sion: "The Great Timekeeper has ended the game for Knute Rockne. "And it is characteristic of this sport-loving nation that perhaps no other death could have brought more universal sorrow than this—sorrow among men, women and even little children. "Ivnute Eockne's name was a household word. With Edison, Lindbergh, Will Rogers, Henry Ford and Rocke­feller, he probably shared honors as one of the best-known Americans. ' "He had long since o'erleaped the sport page. Persons who seldom followed sports knew Rockne. Boys who could not yet read could tell you about Eockne and his Ramblers. 

TELEGRAMS 
The Kiwanians of the United States and Canada extend most sincere sympathy to you and to your family in this time of sorrow. . —^Raymond M. Grossman, 
President, Eiwanis International. 
Los Angeles Council No. 621 Knights of Columbus in reg­ular meeting assembled extends deepest sympathy to the family of our beloved Rock. He will always live in the minds and memories of those who knew him and loved him so reverently. Church and State has lost a devoted son and citizen, and his passing will be mourned by all lovers of right thinking and clean living and true sports­manship. ; —Clement D. Nye, Grand Km'ght­
* * » 
Male High School of Louisville joins with me in extend­ing our most heartfelt sympathy in your bereavement. He was true friend as well as an inspiration to us. 
—Tom Johnson. 
Please accept my deepest sympathy in your bereavement. —^Major Wm. Kennelly, Pres. New York Athletic Qub 
Notre Dame Club of Boston wish to express to you their deepest and most heartfelt sympathy in your and our great loss. —Charles F. Baine. President. 
The Notre Dame Club of Portland extends sincerest sym­pathy to you and yours at this time of great sorrow. —^Notre Dame Club of Portland, —^D. L. Callicrate. 
* * * 
With deepest and sincerest sympathy to you and your family in this your greatest hour of sorrow. We feel the loss of Rock as though he were a member of our own family and loved him as such. 
—^Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. 
Please permit me to extend my deepest sympathy in your loss. My colleagues at Carnegie Tech join with me in mourning Mr. Rockne. —Clarence Overend, 
Graduate Manager of Carnegie Tech. * * * Sincere sympathy from myself, staff and family for the tragic death of your noble husband. —J. P. O'Mahoney, Editor, Indiana Catholic. 
Accept my heartfelt sympathy in this hour of your shock­ing and sorrowful bereavement. I can appreciate the depth of your grief and sorrow as a wife and mother by my own grief in losing so good and loyal a friend as Mr. Rockne. I shall offer a Mass tomorrow for the repose of his soul. —^Rev. John J. CBoyle, Camp Rockne. 
I want to e.\press my personal condolences and those of the people of Minnesota who share with you and your family the keen loss of a great man. Knute Rockne endeared himself in the national heart of a great country by his outstanding ability, rare humanitarian qualities and fine sportsmanship, a renowned athletic coach and a peerless moulder of character. In a sense he has not passed from us, because he will always live in our hearts. 
Sincerely. 
—^Floyd B. Olson, Governor of Minnesota. 
We wish you to accept our condolence at the untimely passing of your loved one. We feel deeply, as Knute Rockne was to us a man of high ideals and we greatly respected him and will reverence his memory. 
—L. A. Soloman, Secretary of Ortho Club, 
San Francisco, Calif. 

TELEGRAMS 
Please accept our heartfelt sympathy in this hour of your deepest sorrow. —^Board of Athletic Control, Oregon State CoUege. 
On behalf of Los Angeles lodge of Elks let me e-xpress our sincerest sjTnpathy in the loss of your husband and a member of our fraternity. Being a personal friend of Knute's may I also add my tribute to a man, a friend, and one whom we all loved and we pray that God may support you in this hour of great trial. 
—Charles J. O'Hara, 
Exalted Ruler, Los Angeles Lodge No. 99. 
Honolulu: 
Condolences from Pan Pacific Lines. 

My sincerest condolences to you in this hour of your great grief. —Harvey J. Harman, Football Coach, University of Pennsylvania. 
Out of your great sorrow which so many of your friends share comes to me this Easter morning a new feeling of our Lord's Resurrection a feeling more strengthening and inspiring than I have ever felt before on Easter Sunday. This is but one of your dear husband's gifts to those who loved him. I am thanking God and him for this beautiful gift. Sincerely, your friend, —Charles Phillips. 
As a pupil and friend of Coach Rockne I want to express my deepest sympathy in the loss of your distinguished husband. Truly Mr. Rockne was a great and noble man, and we of Arkansas loved him not only as an instructor and coach but as a friend. May God sustain you in this trying time -with His tenderest love. Sincerely, 
—^Richard JI. Ryan. 
Please accept our deepest sympathy for your great loss. —^Radio Keith Orpheum Corp., Wm. Elson, Divisional Director. 
Gravely aiiected by sorrowful news. Accept our heart­felt sympathy. --RCA Victor Co. Inc. 
Accept our most heartfelt sympathy in your great loss. —^Mr. and Mrs. Jack Rissman. 
I just wanted you to know how deeply I feel for you and the children. I still cannot believe it is true. —Grantland Rice. 
* * * Accept our heartfelt sympathy in your great loss. —^F. P. Robinson, Mayor, Elmira, N. Y. 
* » * 

I am deeply shocked at the great tragedy that has be­fallen you. As the wife of Knute Rockneyour loss is irreparable and words are inadequate to express the deep sympathy that all San Franciscans feel for you. He occupied a unique place in our national life and we in San Francisco felt particularly close to him. His spirit of true sportsmanship was an inspiration to the youth and manhood of our country, and his memory will be enshrined forever in the hearts of all loyal Americans. 
—^Angelo J. Rossi, 
Mayor of San Francisco. 
In your great sorrow you have my deepest sympathy, —Babe Ruth. 

EDITORIAL COMMENT 
"His was the very pinnacle of greatness in one of the most colorful of our national amusements. 
"But, even though his fame was won on the gridiron, even though he was the perfect coach, Rockne, like all the really great, transcended the bounds of the field in which he labored. 
"There were traits of character which Rockne pos­sessed and which endeared him to the American public. He didn't depend on mere efiiciency as a coach for the es­teem in which he was held. His personality, his integrity, his qualities of leadership, his square-shooting, those things, plus ability, made Rockne great. 
"There have been big figures in the sports world—^but none who attained the size of Rockne. 
"In all his career there was never the slightest taint of imfaimess, of imetlucal practices, of lack of sportsman­ship raised against him. None praised him higher than liis defeated opponents. That fact, more than the mere scores which his teams rolled up, attested the greatness of Rockne. 
"Above all, he was the apostle of clean sportsmanship. 
"He gave every man a chance. Those who had failed for others succeeded for Rockne; such was the effect of his inspiration. He contributed much to the sports life of America; and equally as much to scholastic traditions and practices. 
"This little Norwegian immigrant boy, who fought his way up to the pinnacle from the backyard of his boyhood, attained a place in the college life of America which no other man has ever held. 
"And now he is gone. And we doubt that he will ever be replaced. "The game is ended. And in every department of play, Knute Rockne won." 
In connection with the forgeoing, word comes from Bob Fox of Denver, who was in Peking, China, the day of the accident, that the Peking papers carried a full col­umn on Rockne. 
* * * The St. Paul Pioneer-Press, up where Rockne's race predominates, said this: "The shocking death of Knute Rockne removes one of the most successful and universally liked figures in Amer­ican sport. Rockne was known not only to football fans but to millions who themselves were never followers of the game which he helped lift from the levels of a pas­time to the plane of a science. Nor does a smnmary of his contributions to football as a game include the aspects of his career that distinguished him among Americans in­terested in athletics. "He leaves the sport he esteemed far different from what Jt was when he first played it, a sport in which brawn and bulk were clothed with athletic respectability for practice of an only slightly milder form of mayhem than actual free-for-all fighting. Probably no individual has had more to do with the transformation which has lifted this game of football into the foremost coUege sport in the land and made it the athletic cornerstone upon which the whole catalogue of college sport is founded. "Rockne regarded footbaU as more than a recreation. It was more than a game for the game's sake. It was the implement with which he tried to buUd character in the boys who came under his supervision. If the innumerable victories of Notre Dame prompted the inference that 


EDITORIAL COMMENT 
"anything to ^\•in" was a Eockne formula the Eockne method refuted this conjecture. The young men he took from coast to coast were marked by the qualities that dis­tinguish manhood. Sportsmanship, was the first objective of the Eockne system and football victories were the by­product of his method. The qualities that make a youth a great player on the gridiron, that enable a youngster to master a sport where lightning decisions and courage are at a premium are qualities essential to success in other pursuits, Eockne believed. 
"Football will miss the energetic, outspoken, likeable Coach of Notre Dame, and when the season opens again next Fall, will feel the loss of a strong personality to which it is indebted for many of its most colorful tra­ditions." 
• * * 

Mrs. J. W. Livergood, mother of Bemie Livergood, '25, one of Eock's fullbacks, sends in the following example of how Rockne's genius extended into unsuspected places, a clipping from a column called "Bait for Bugs," by H. V. Millard, in the Decatur (111.) Review: 
"In all our connection with sport which has included football and basketball officiating for 13 years in a dozen states of the middle west, baseball which has with it many fine associations, we have never met a man who left the impression with us Knute Eockne did. 
"It will seem drab—^that Big Ten football officials meeting this coming September not to have Knute in the room. He was at his best when assembled with a group of men who were engaged in the same line of work and it so happens that our last visit with him was at that meeting in Chicago last September. 
Knute came in late and happened to pick a seat next to the writer. At that time he still had his infected leg wrapped with a rubber bandage and several times during the session while listening to various debates on the inter­pretation of the grid rules by the Big Ten coaches and officials would stoop over and unloosen the bandage al­ways with some wisecrack about it. 
Despite his greatness he was always humble. He would give as much time to one of the officials who was not listed with the more prominent or to the sports editor of the small town daily as to the boys on the metropolitan sheets. He was not a politician in any sense of the word, picking out the men who could do him the most good. Eockne needed no one to favor him in any way for he was in a class by himself as a source of news needing only to act natural. 
Back in our early days of officiating a thing came up that made Eockne stand out in the writer's mind. After the assignment of officials for a season -had been an­nounced in the press (they are no longer published fol­lowing the appointment by the committee) a writer -on a Chicago paper, came out with a story asking why the Big Ten had to go to a High grass college to secure their officials. He was of course referring to Fred Young of Bloomington and the writer. That appeared in an after-. noon paper and the next day the writer received a letter from Knute Eockne not only condemning the writer of the article but advising Bait who was a young official in those days to not let it get us down. 
Here was a man not in the Big Ten but with a tol­erant mind ready to do his bit for an official he thought had been unjustly criticized. Since that day Bait has never failed to receive a Christmas card from Knute. 

TELEGRAMS 

I sympathize with you in the sad bereavement which has so suddenly befallen- you. I knew your husband and mourn your loss with you. My deepest sympathy to you and yours. James Eolph, Jr., 
Governor of California. 

Expressing my deepest sympathy for the loss of one of my dearest friends. —Joe Savoldi. 
* * * 

The faculty and student body extend to you their heart­felt sorrow. —C. M. Reilly, Athletic Director, St. Bonaventure's College. 
The entire staff of the Sanataria Hotel, Tucson, Ariz, joins me in extending deepest sympathy. —Grover Sykes, Mgr. 
Our heartfelt sympathy in this dark hour of your sorrow. —Walter W. Wood, Athletic Director, Shurtleff College. 
* * * 
Words are futile to express to you our grief over the loss of one so close to all of us. I wish there were some way we might help to alleviate your sorrow. 
—W. O. Hunter, Director of Athletics, University of Southern California. 

The Southwest Texas Football Officials Association with headquarters in San Antonio, Texas appreciate the won­derful character taken away from the eame today. We want you to know you have our heartfelt sympathy. 
—^Harold Winters, President. 
* » * 
Our love and sympathy go out to you in your great sor­row. —Major and Mrs. Shadoan, Illinois Military School. 

The National Society of Natureopathic Physicians wish to express their sincere condolence to you in the loss of so great aiid clean a man in America's sports. There is a Heaven, and Knute rests peacefully there. 
—^Dr. Frank B, Smith, Secretary. 

» * * 

Stanford University expresses most sincere regret at your tragic loss. —^Dr. Thomas S. Storey, Gen. Director Physical Education and Hygiene, Stanford University. 
* * * 

Permit me to extend my most heartfelt ssnnpathy in your bereavement of your late wonderful husband and my dear friend. The whole world will miss him very much. In addition, the University of Washington alumni in Chicago also extends its heartfelt sympathy. 
—^Dr. Alfred A. Strauss. * * « We grieve with you and send our sincerest sympathy. —Mr. and Mrs. Bill Spaulding. * * • 
The sad and untimely death of your beloved husband and our best friend has effected an irreparable loss, and in this hour of your deepest sorrow we wish to extend our most heartfelt sympathy. Sincerely, 
• —Maurice J. Smith, Lawrence T. Shaw, Univ. of Santa Clara, Santa Clara, Calif. 

Accept heartfelt sympathy of the faculty and students of the Cathedral Hie;}! School, Indianapolis. —Brother William, C.S.C, Principal. 
TELEGRAMS 
The Associated Students University of Washington ex­
tend their sympathies to you in this hour of your sorrow. 
We knew Mr. Rockne as a leader and an inspiration and 
mourn verj' deeply his going. Respectfully, 
—^Associated Students, University of Washington. 
We in Washington want to express our deepest sym­
pathy in the passing of your most wonderful husband. 
We are happy to have known liim and to have been in­
spired by him. 

—^\Vashington Chamber of Commerce, 
H. A. Nordheim, President. 
Manager Donie Bush, Coach Mike Kelly, and aU members 
of Chicago White Sox Baseball Club join me in extending 
our deepest sjTnpathy to you in the loss of your dear 
husband. Sport in general has lost a wonderful char­
acter and we a real friend. Respectfully, 
—^Lou Barbour, Secretary. 
In this dark hour of sadness I want to send you my most sincere sympathy. —K. L. Wilson, Northwestern University. 
Words fail me. Accept my sincerest and deepest sym­pathy. Our great loss too. —0. E. Babe HolUngberry, Washington State College, Pullman, Wash. 
The Great Lakes Transit Corporation and the sailors of our fieet •wish to express our deepest sympathy in this hour of bereavement in the loss of your husband and the father of your children. Anything I can do Mrs. Rockne please call upon me. 
—C. D. Tuppen, Great Lakes Transit Corp., 
Buffalo, N. Y. 
» » * 

Please accept my heartfelt condolence in your hour of sorrow. The passing of Knute Rockne is an irretrievable loss to the nation's youth which had looked up to him as the symbol of clean sportsmanship and fine ideals. As a factor of our atliletic life few men have been his equal, none have excelled him in influence. I know that you •will find solace in the reverence with which his memory •will be cherished by his fellow countrymen. Mrs. Thompson joins me in this message. 
—^William Hale Thompson, Mayor of Chicago. 
* « • Accept our heartfelt sympathies. 

—Sigma ICappa Fraternity, Nu Chapter, Upper Darby High School, Upper Darby, Pa. 
* * * 

We believe that youth has suffered its greatest loss in 
•the passing of Rock. He was a lovable character whose personality made him legions of friends. We join •with you in your bereavement. 
—The Varsity Club, Western 111. State Teachers College. 
* * * 

Kindly accept the sincere and most heartfelt expression of sympathy of the memberss of the Vosse Laget of Chicago. —The Committee. 
* » * 

Please accept my sincere sympathy. 
-—Glenn J. Warner 
* * »

My deepest sympathy. -Wm. Anthony McGuire. 
Your loss is also mine. Thousands mourn •with you. Knute's great inspirational character is now a national tradition. Deepest sympathy. 
—Walter E. Meanwell. 



EDITORIAL COMMENT 
Bob Nesbit, in the Terre Haute Star, says, in part: 
The greatest horseman has gone—dynamic Knute 
Eockne. He was the man •with an undying spirit, omni­
present in every charge that the famous warriors of 
Notre Dame have carried through to •victory during the 
years that he was their leader. Yes, Knute Rockne was 
the greatest horseman. His was the guiding light that 
brought success to the hundreds of inspired boys he has 
sent onto the gridiron and no one realizes this more than 
the boys themselves. 
He was gay and he was blithe in spirit, nimble of •wit and almost a spendthirft in his desire to oblige the hun­dreds of friends he came to know intimately from coast to coast. It was his great desire to help his friends and always turn up for their banquets, regardless of how far he might travel, that threatened to undermine his health on several occasions. Here, however, the fighting spirit with which his teams were so thoroughly steeped brought him through safely. But he didn't have even a fighting chance out there on those Kansas prairies yesterday. Man is not yet supreme over such things, it seems. 
And back out on the Pacific, among the expressions 
from tlie state press in Washington, is this touching ex­
cerpt: 
"Knute Eockne dead? Aye, they say it's so. But when 
the chill •winds of November sweep o'er Indiana's plain. 
The Rock •will surely huddle with his halfbacks, and when 
the battle is at its fiercest, and the foe presses hard, the 
Bald Eagle •will always soar by the side of his warriors. 
Knute Rockne dead? Gone, perhaps, but only in the flesh. 
His earthly remains -will lie beneath the sod somewhere, 
but his spirit—ah, there's the thing that tells the man! 
His spirit •will be forever running interferences for his 
men of Notre Dame."—Longvieto News. 

« * * 
The N.C.W.C. has sent out the following interesting 
sidelight on the religious side of Rockne's career: 
Writing in the Washington Star, H. C. Byrd, vice-president of the University of Maryland and supervisor of athletics at that institution, recalls a conversation which he had •with the late Knute Rockne concerning the latter's entry into the Catholic Church. It was this glimpse of Rockne's character, the •writer states, that made the most lasting impression on him. 
"And, perhaps," he continues, "that which created that most lasting impression ought not to be written, but because it exemplifies a phase of Rockne's life, that few ever came in contact •with, even at the risk of creating a •wrong impression, it is being told. Rockne, while a great josher and humorist, had a serious side, in which a belief in right and loyalty to that belief were paramount. It never was generally known, but Rockne was a Scottish Rite Mason until he left that order to become a member of the Catholic Church, and after he took that step no more loyal Catholic ever lived. It involved a side of Rockne •with which few were conversant, and one day when a question of religion was mentioned, the •writer turned to Eockne and said: 
" 'Rock, it is so seldom that a man takes such a step as yon have, and one so seldom thinks of you in connection with such things. I wonder if you would mind telling me why you did that?' 

EDITORIAL COMMENT 
"Rockne hesitated just a moment and then his reply came quietly and in that convincing way that made him a great teacher: 
" 'Why should I mind telling you? You know, all this hurry and battling we're going through is just an expres­sion of our inner selves striving for something better. The way I look at it is that we're all here to try to find, each in his o^vn way, the best road to our ultimate goal. I believe I've found my way and I shall travel it to the end.' 
"And he did. And somehow or other Tuesday, down in the State House at Annapolis, where the writer first learned of the tragedy which cost him a loyal friend, it was not Eockne's greatness as a coach, not his whimsical remarks, not his gridiron strategies, that came to mind, but rather a sudden convincing realization that the big thing in Eockne's life was that quietly spoken 'I believe I've found my way and I shall travel it to the end'." 
* * * 

The Milwaukee Jmirnal adds its editorial voice: 
"It isn't going to be the same next autumn with Knute Eockne gone from the sidelines. We shall miss the tense figure on the Notre Dame bench, pulling nervously at the brim of Iiis fedora as the tide of battle surged. The grandstands will roar; the row upon row of students will bark the old challenge defiantly, "Notre Dame! Notre Dame! Notre Dame!" The game will go on. But as the sun slants low in the crisp autumn air thousands who never went to Notre Dame, who never met but admired Knute Eockne, will feel a momentary loneliness . . . 
"Eockne loved boys, and the boys who came under his influence loved 'Rock.' That, we believe, was the greatest tribute to this genius in boy psychology. A clean liver, he played the game of life hard and square, and the thou­sands of boys who passed through this boys' college in youth's impressionable age were the better for having known him. His influence extended farther. He was a hero and an inspiration for clean living to other thou­sands of boys who never had the intention of attending any college. Football scores pass with the day; the im­pression on the character of youth lives on . . . 
"The game will go on. Body will thud against body in the hard tussle for the ball. The row upon row of stu­dents will bark the old challenge defiantly, "Notre Dame! Notre Dame! Notre Dame!" But when the game is ended and the boys are trotting toward the gymnasium, the crowds will not rush upon the field to get near a once familiar figure in a fedora, bobbing up and down in the midst of the headger. And from the row upon row of students, never again will come that final triumphal cheer, 'Eock! Eock! Rock!'" 
Three's a vacant place upon the bench on the side­lines that will not be filled in our generation. • * * 
Damon Eunyon, in the New York American, says, "It was Eockne, with his marvelous Notre Dame football teams and through his own powerful personality, who made football the national institution it is today. He achieved, as a football coach, the greatest fame that has ever come to any gridiron figure. He made his Alma Mater the dream goal of nearly every boy in the land . . ." From the Detroit News: 
TELEGRAMS 

Please accept my deepest sympathy in your bereave­
ment. —^Nick Keams. 
* * * 
* * * 

Dreadfully shocked and distressed. Please accept my pro­
found sympathy. God comfort you and your little ones in 
superabundance. A great hero and Christian gentleman 
has left to his family a good name better than all price. 
God rest his sterling soul. Yoiur devoted friend. 
—Joseph Scott. 

» » • Our family extends to you our sincerest sympathies at this time. —C. W. Spears. « * * Please accept my sincerest sympathy. —R. L. Dink Templeton. * « * On behalf of the graduates and former students of Notre Dame at Fort Wayne allow me to extend our deepest sym­pathy to yourself and children upon the death of Mr. Eocfaie. —Clifford B. Ward, Secretary. 
Dear Madame: Sincere condolence in your bereavement from one of Knute's boyhood chums. —W. A. W. 
* ** 

Officials and members of the San Diego Athletic Club which Mr. Rockne was to visit tomorrow extend their sincere sympathy to you in this hour of bereavement in which share is taken by millions of Americans. The city of San Diego participates in this word of deep sympathy. —F. M. Wliite, President, 
San Diego Athletic Club. 

The coaches of Woodberry Prep School send deepest sym­pathy to you and your boys. —^L. W. Dick, Jr. 
* » « 

As Captain of the Yale football team of 1930 I should like to extend to you my sjrmpathy upon the loss of Mr. Eockne, and I can assure you that these same sentiments are shared by the entire squad. Though I did not know Mr. Eockne personally I feel that I have come to know him through my close connections with Adam Walsh. 
—^Fay Vincent. 

* » » May I offer my most sincere and deepest sympathy in your hour of bereavement. 
—^Earl R. Yeomans, Director of Athletics, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pa. 

From some who grieve even as yourself. Sympathy. Our son was killed in the same crash, and we are laying him away this afternoon. May God comfort all of us.­
—^Rev. and Mrs. Edward F. Miller, 
Lawrence, Mass. 
* *« 

.The Young Men's Christian Association of this city ex­tends to Notre Dame deepest sympathy in the great loss of Knute Eockne. His splendid qualities will always re­main an inspiration to the young men of this country. 
—C. G. Carlson, Athletic Director, 
Hartford, Conn. 
* • * 

The Army extends its deepest sympathy in the tragic death of Knute Rockne. American sports have lost a.great and beloved leader. We share with Notre Dame the in­spiration of his gallantry, his vigor and his skill. The Army will cherish his memory. 
-^Douglas MacArthur, 
U. S. War Dept., Washington, D. C. * * * 

Villa Nova extends is heartfelt sympathy in your great loss. —James Grifl&i, President. 
THE NOTKE DAUE ALUMNUS May, 19S1 



TELEGRAMS 
From the Detroit News: The Alumni and students of Santa Clara University deep­ly sympathize with you, Mrs. Rockne and his mother in your loss. WiU you please extend our sympathy to them. We will remember him in our prayers and at Mass. Owing to the fact that Clipper Smith and Buck Shaw are making su(i a fine impression at Santa Clara we have taken a great interest in Mr. Eockne and Notre Dame, and there­fore feel your loss keenly. —Charles H. Graham. 
* • * 

The President and faculty of Seattle College extend their sympathy at the death of Mr. Eockne. —John A. McHugh. 
* • * 

Faculty and students of St. Bonaventures College extend 
sincere condolence in the death of the man who raised up 
a manly type of Christian gentlemen on the football field. 
—Father Thomas Plassman, O.F.M. 
* * • 

Duquesne University tenders sympathy to Notre Dame University on loss of Coach Eoelaie. —Eev. J. J. Callahan, President, Duquesne University. 
* * * 

Evansville College mourns Knute Rockne, great educator, true sportsman, exemplar of clean life and straight think­ing. May the spirit of the man live forever at Notre Dame and everywhere. On behalf of all Evansville and especially its college, I extend to you assurance of deep sympathy and sincere condolences. 
—Earl E. Harper, 
President, Evansville College, Evansville, Ind. 
* * * 

Drake University and I personally are deeply grieved at the loss of our wonderful friend, Mr. Rockne. We sympa­thize most sincerely ^vith each one of you there. 
—^E. C. Lytton, ' 
Business Manager, Drake University. 
Greatly shocked at news of Rockne's death. A national loss. —T). W. Morehouse, President, Drake University. 
All Carnegie Tech students, alumni and members of our Athletic Council sympathize with you and your University in the tremendous loss of one so dear to all of us. Advisory Coach Steffen, Coach Waddel, Laboon, President of our Athletic Council, and myself ^vill attend the funeral serv­ices on Saturday. —Clarence Overend, 
Carnegie Tech. 
* • * 

The Superintendent, Officers and Eegiment of Midship­men are much grieved to learn of the sad death of Mr. Knute Eockne and extend deepest sympathy to his family and Notre Dame University. —S. S. Robinson, 
Office of the Superintendent, 

United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. 
Dear President O'Donnell: I pray you will extend to the members of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame and the undergraduates a profound expression of my sym­pathy and sorrow in the sad and pathetic death of Coach Knute Eockne. He was for many years the master mind of American football and gave to the University of Notre Dame a superior type of sportsmanship which has never been approached in the history of the famous game. In my judgement, Mr. Eockne did more to inspire the youth of America vntb the good sense of sportsmanship in the field of athletics than any other man who has been asso­ciated with our colleges and universities. His was a spirit of fair contest and the finest consideration for the welfare of his opponents. As one of the great admirers of Mr. Eockne it is an honor to pay my tribute to his family. 
—James M. Curley, Mayor, Boston, Mass. 

EDITORIAL COMMENT 
"Knute Rockne had become so public a figure in the last ten years of his life, and his personality in many at­tractive attitudes had been imprest so vividly on the general consciousness, that his sudden death must bring a sensation of intimate loss to millions, of his coimtrymen. 
"A man adored and idolized by thousands of young men, who have found in him all they would wish them­selves to be, can only be an enormous force in the com­munity. 
"The essence of Eockne's character was its complete masculinity, a drcumstance calculated to set him apart in an age which has somehow lost the edge of an earlier national virility. 
"He was a man's man, and particularly a boy's man, with a remarkable insight into the aspirations and ten­dencies of youth, and an almost unique capacity for in­ducing the adolescent character to realize its full stature and strength. 
"The lives of thousands of Americans have been col­ored and enriched and made more satisfying by contact with him. Hundreds of other younger Americans are deiinitely the poorer for his tragic passing." 
"A football genius," the New York Herald-Tribune 

' calls him—"a. coach who influenced the game more than Walter Camp, Glenn Warner, or any of those great strat­egists of the past." And further: 
He was not only a great coach but a dynamic force that was able to turn mediocre material into extraordi­narily fine teams. 
He had inspirational power to a marked degree. 
His system of play, taught by an army of men who learned the game under his tutelage, is widely followed all over the country to-day. 

In the East and Middle West and in parts of the South football is being analyzed not so much as a game but as an intercollegiate sport. Almost every one who is in­terested in sport of any kind considers it the most thrill­ing and exciting of intercollegiate contests. - Lovers of the game are worried by its hippodroming features, its offensive ballyhoo, its commercialism. 
Opinions differ sharply, no few contending that inter­collegiate football as played before huge crowds, as de­veloped- by clever publicity, is simply representative of the age, and particularly of modem college life. The fact that the college coach is often better known to the gen­eral public than the university president is indication of the place to which the game has mounted. 
Rockne was as great a promoter as he was a coach. He might have been a P. T. Bamum or a "Tex" Rickard. He molded fine teams and he promoted them with a skill surpassed by no publicity agent. Scores of coaches adopted his football strategy and his promotion methods as well. He was everything to "big-time" football. 
* » » 

Paul Gallico tells us in the New York Daily News, picturing the confusion and questioning which follow his death: 
"Everybody knew his picture, his voice over the radio, 


EDITORIAL COMMENT 
and his personality was a part of the nation's daily life. "The sudden blotting out of such a real celebrity leaves you at first bewildered and deeply shocked. A thousand questions surge through your mind. What's going to happen? What will Notre Dame do? How could it have happened ? Who can take his place ? What will become of his system? How can they get along with­out him? What will we do for stories this fall? How can things in football go on?" * * * 
But what sort of person lurked beneath "Rock's" ex­
terior? Arch Ward, a Notre Dame alumnus, writes in 
the Chicago Tribune: 
"Kockne was forty-three years old. Premature bald­ness and aggravations because of a recent leg ailment made many think he was older. 
"During the seasons of 1919 and 1920 Eockne was my constant companion. It was only a short time before I came to appreciate his tremendous magnetism and per­sonality. 
"Eockne was a benevolent despot in a powerful mas­culine democracy. He was a driver, and yet there was nothing harsh about his methods. 
"As an instructor of chemistry and as a coach on the gridiron he gave boys sufficient time to master his sys­tems. But wo betide the lad who failed to grasp things. There was no place for that type on Eockne's teams or in his classes. 
"Eockne was a driver, but he never became abusive. He was an insistent master, but an imderstanding one. He was an vmcompromising demander of discipline and adherence to rules of training, eligibility and method." 
« * * 

The peculiar phenomenon of hews by which Eockne's death commanded more space and attention that the great Nicaraguan earthquake disaster of the same day is expressed in the following editorial: 
Interest in the Nicaraguan earthquake is overshadowed entirely in Youngsto-\vn by the tragic death of Knute Eockne. While this may seem disproportionate it is natural: newspapermen have an old maxim to the effect that the death of one local man means more to their readers than the death of a. thousand Chinamen, and while in this case the earthquake is on our own continent and Eockne was not a Youngstown man, nevertheless he was known personally to so many here and was such a national figure that the crash of the airplane which was carrying him to the coast yesterday afternoon brought genuine grief to hundreds of Youngstown homes. 
Youngstown has no reason to be ashamed of being more interested in Eockne than in the earthquake. This is no parallel to what happened when President Eliot and Rudolph Valentino died on the same day and Valentino received more attention than the noted educator. There was ground for criticism then, but there can be none now in letting our thoughts dwell more upon a man who meant so much to every young American. Eockne was not only a great football coach—certainly the greatest of our time 
^but he was a great man as well. Anyone who can fire the manhood of others as he did is in every way admir­able; President Hoover was right in saying that Eockne was a national asset. We all have latent powers that need to be stirred and awakened: Eockne did this, not 

TELEGRAMS 

Baylor University students and faculty extend to Notre Dame University their profound sympathy in the great bereavement occasioned by_ the passing of Enute Rockne. Coach Eockne was an inspiration to youth everywhere, an honor to American manhood, a truly great citizen. We shall not look upon his like again. —^Baylor University. 
* * * 

Please accept my sincerest condolences upon the tragic 
death of Knute Rockne, your splendid athletic figure. His 
loss will be felt in academic as well as football circles. 
—^Thomas S. Baker, 
President, Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
* * * 

Accept our deepest sympathy for the loss of a great Notre Dame man. —^Athletic Dept., University of California, Los Angeles, California.' 
* * * 

The Athletic Administration of the University of Cali-. fomia extends its deepest sympathy to Notre Dame in losing the greatest leader and sportsman in the athletic world today. —W. W. Mon^an and Bill Ingram. 
* * * 

On behalf of the Committee on the Regulation of Athletic Sports of Harvard University I share with you the loss of an inspiring leader. Great as was his contribution to Notre Dame, his influence on intercollegiate athletics and to the idealism of the American youth was even greater. Please accept my profound sympathy. 
—^William J. Bingham, Director of Athletics. 
* • • 

I mourn with Notre Dame the loss of her great coach. He was more than a creator of fine football teams. He was a builder of character, and because he was that, his untimely passing^ is a loss to the country. Notre Dame loses his aggressive leadership, but not the inspiration of his nobility of character. —^Patrick J. Hurley, 
Secretary of War, Washington, D. C. 

» » * 

All at DePaul join in extending sympathy to you and Notre Dame at the death of your distinguished athletic leader. —Rev. F. V. Corcoran, President. 

» * * 

Shocking news of Mr. Rockne's untimely death distresses us all. I offer for myself and our organization to yourUniversity and to you, and through you to Mr. Rockne's family our deepest sympathy. 
—National Council of Catholic Men, 
Charles F. DoUe, Executive Secretary. 
* * » 

Students, faculty and townspeople join me in this expresr sion of deepest sympathy. Knute Rockne's general service to us when we sought athletic coaches constituted an obli­gation we could never pay. What he symbolized in sports­manship was appreciated by thousands whom he never knew. Will you not extend your sympathy likewise to his bereaved family. —G. Bromely Oxnam, 
President, DePanw University. 
* • • 

The administration, the faculty and the student body of Columbus University of Law extends to Notre Dame its -sincere sympathy and condolences in the loss of the great Eockne. —Columbus University. 
* » * Profoundly moved by the untimely death of Knute Rockne. Seton Hall College extends its sincere condolences to the Fathers, professors and students and assures them of deepest sympathy and remembrance in prayers. There has passed from our midst a perfect Catholic gentleman and honorable director of students in athletic endeavors, and a man who labored earnestly for the cause of education. 
—Monsignor McLaughlin, 
President, Seton Hall College. 

* * * Please extend to the family of Knute Rockne West Point's deepest sympathy. West Point has lost a staunch and true friend. Notre Dame has lost a distinguished and lorable Alumnus. Sport has lost one of its greatest and noblest adherents. —William K. Smith, Superintendent, United States MiKtary Academy, West Point, N. Y. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS May, 19S1 


EDITORIAL COMMENT 
merely for the men of the Notre Dame squad but for all the healthy young men of his country. Just as we learn history best through the biographies of great men, so in the chronicle of our own time the life of Knute Rockne, eexerting an extraordinary influence for good, will be remembered after the earthquake is forgotten. He was one of us, one of the best. 
Knute Rockne's life and influence are summed up editorially in the following expression: 
I never knew Ivnute Kockne, but I know many who did know Mm—and who loved him. I followed his career, however, with more than ordinary interest, and was al­ways inspired by it. 
Without doubt, Rockne was one of the most inspiring leaders that sport has ever introduced. The reason for this were many. In the first place, he believed that char­acter won football games, the same as it wins games in life. He instilled courage, alertness, fairness, and honest sportsmanship in all his boys. He was a genius as a leader of men. 
I recall a remark made by the late Walter Eckersall as he left college, about Alonzo Stagg, the Chicago uni­versity football and athletic leader. "Stagg," said this famous player, "teaches character, as well as football." That is what Rockne did. And, all over the world of sport, there will linger the example and teaching of this beloved coach. 
It has been a splendid thing for the youth of this world to have had a President of the United States, as well as great leaders of thought and opinion in all walks of life, render admiring tributes to this man, who lived so simply and who strove so honestly to prepare men for the larger battles and games of life. 
Theodore Roosevelt used to say: "Hit the line hard— and don't flinch!" That's what Rockne taught, too. To­ward the last, he suffered in body—^faut he didn't complain, and he didn't flinch. He was taken, dramatically away, at the very height of his fame and glory. His career was full of luster. 
Rockne's tragic death has left the world both poorer and richer. Poorer, for who is there who could take his place? Richer, for thousands upon thousands of boys will live upon his work and achievements, and they will carrj' on his uncompleted work. > 
Clean sport is a great asset to a nation. And when leaders appear, like Rockne who are able to inspire a sense of loyalty, fidelity to ideals, and who are able to transfer their own God-given genius to those under their training, then all men become benefactors. 
Knute Rockne was of foreign blood, but his spirit was native American, and his example of sport leadership and character belongs, as a heritage, to all the world. 
* * •* 

As indicated at the start, this brief survey of the edi­torial reaction is not assumed to be even completely rep­resentative. It does represent, we believe, some splendid expressions, from- varied angles, and from various sec­tions. The ALUMNUS only wishes to place on these pages, for posterity, evidence of the widespread, gen­uine sentiment that appeared on the nation's editorial pages following Rockne's death. 

TELEGRAMS 

The faculty and students of St. Mary's College join with me in extending to Notre Dame heartfelt regrets for the loss that will be felt not only by our sister school but by the entire cause of Catholic education in America, of which Jlr. Rockne was in his own way a great leader. We will pray that God will have mercy on his soul and console those near to him. 
—Francis J. Ohem, S.J., President. 
* * * 

Deeply shocked at news of unfortunate accident that be­fell Knute Rockne and companions. The faculty and stu­dents of St. Vincent College wish to express to you and the University deepest sympathy. 
—Father Bonaventure Reithmeir, 
Dean of St. Vincent College. 
* * * 

Permit me to extend the most sincere sympathy of the University of Pennsylvania upon the death of Mr. Rockne His passing is an irreparable loss to all of us, and we share with you in your grief. 
—^Thomas S. Gates, President. 
* * * 

Little Rock College extends its sympathy to Notre Dame, Mrs. Rockne and family in their recent sad loss. —Rev. John J. Healy, President, Little Rock College. 
* * * 

Sincerest sympathy on the death of the famous Knute Rockne. —Ven. Bro. Alfred, President of LaSalle College, Pa. 
* * * 

The Syracuse Club mourns with Notre Dame for the loss of one of the world's greatest educators. Local services for the repose of the soul of Knute Rockne will be held at St. Brigid's Church, April 6th, at 7:30 A. JL, by Rev. 
J. B. Toomey, class of twenty-six. —E. C. Schonlau. 
* * * 

Please extend our sympathy to Mrs. Rockne, family and school. The tragic death of our beloved coach has left a deep sorrow upon us. Illness prevents my attendance A Dixon representative will be there 
—^Rock River Valley Notre Dame Club. 
* * • 

Wooster joins nation monrning loss of greatest Roman of them all. —Rev. M. L. Moriarty. 
* * * 

St. Marys Alumni express their heartfelt sympathy on the death of Coach Knute Rockne. —^Timothy J. Canty, Executive Secretary. 
* * * 

Deepest sympathies to Notre Dame We are crushed by the news of the passing of Knute Rockne —^National Catholic Alumni Federation, Edward S. Dore and Redmond P. Keman, Jr. 
* * * 

Shocked to hear of Rock's death. Sympathy. —James P. Taugher, Alumni Secretary, Marquette University. 
* * * 

Houston Club oifers sincere condolences to Mrs. Rockne and Notre Dame —J. Nat Powers, Secretary, Notre Dame Club of Houston, Texas. 
* * * 

We all deeply regret untimely passing of your renowned 
alumnus, Knute Rockne, whom we highly esteemed and we 
offer our condolences to all Notre Dame men. 
—Fordham University Alumni Association, 
E. P. Gilleran, Executive Secretary. 
* * * 

The Central Ohio Alumni Association has received the 
shocking news about Rockne -with much sorrow. Wire me 
date of funeral ^vith details as soon as definitely estab­
lished. —Kay J. Eichenlaub, 
President, Notre Dame Club of Central Ohio. 

May, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
IIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIi llllltlllltlllllllllllllllllllllllttllllllMlltllKIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII lllllllllllltllltlltlllllllllltllllllllllXKIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIMtllltllllllttlllllllH 

H" Q 




EDITORIAL^ 
IIIIKtDltllllllllllttllllKllltttll mimfSI 


NTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame spii-it, though it moves with the force of a tornado, is an intangible thing. Its manifestations are recognized by any Notre Dame man. It is reliable. Phases of it have been beautifully described. But it is inexpressible in its entirety. 
George Gipp, the student; Gipp, the athlete; Gipp, the inanimate body, had their beautiful qualities, their ad­mirers, and their mourners. Gipp, the spiritual force, is an intangible power that has breathed poetry into the prosaic, generated lightning in the serene. 
Knute Rockne was the physical embodiment of vital­ity. He radiated energy with the reaction of an electric current. He was life, as men know it and love it. 
Rockne, bed-ridden with his illness, was another per­son. His friends grieved. It was the idling of a great motor; the stilling of a powerful vibration. 
What of Rockne dead? 
Here enters the term "Intangible." 

With the actual cessation of life in that once great form it was as though an Aeolus had released the winds. The campus, the very country, were swept with a breeze that had in it all of the invigorating qualities of Rnute Rockne. 
The tide of affairs quickly smooths over the sands of time. 
Formally, the niche occupied by Knute Rockne is filled. Pilled as well as man can fill it, for God seemed to have taken a hand in carving that niche so that it stood apart, and above. 
But that spirit that is Rockne needs no niche. Rather, freed in the sky above the Kansas plains, it continued its journey. 
It is working in the completion of those moving pic­tures. 
It came back to Notre Dame to help "Hunk" and "Chev" wind up spring practice. 
It will take the field next Fall. 

It went back to school with Bill and Junior. 
It finds a peace and quiet in the home. 
It will continue its crusade for the betterment of boy­hood. 
It will always demand clean sportsmanship. 
It will keep Notre Dame in the thick of fair fight and healthy rivalry. Knute Rockne, alive, was mortal, subject to death, subject to error, as are we all. Dead, time is no longer an element. 
His influence, admittedly the greatest, most elevating and consistently inspiring in the history of athletics in America, can now come to no end. 
He is unlimited by time and space, bonds that troubled his restless life; escape from which brought him to this ultimate freedom. 
With the fatal plane crash, crashed too those barriers which success inevitably builds about itself. Knute Rockne can now be moulded into that particular form which each of us may prefer. A man who believed in God. An humble man. A husband and a father. A scholar. 
A teacher. An advisor. Lover of boys. Idol of boys. Believer in clean living. Advocate of right thinking. Psychologist. Orator. Humorist. To everyone—a friend. And in many places, to many people, time without end, 
this intangible force that now is Knute Rockne, will come like a cool, refresliing wind from that spot in the Kansas skies to strengthen the weak, to encourage the weary, to stimulate the right, and to sanction the strong. 
Those who embrace Knute Rockne's religion, those who understand the full significance of that beautiful statue of Our Lady on the Dome at Notre Dame, know that above the peaks, as men measure peaks, there is a future that humbles these heights. 
Knute Rockne's life must have led him there. 
"May his soul, and the souls of the faithful departed, through the mercy of God, rest in peace." 

B" 




ROCKNE-MAN OF ACTIO 
« « « « « « 
B" 
May, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALTJHNUS 

ON AND FRIENDS 
A Few of the Associations of the Great Coach Near a?id Dear to Notre Dame Men 
ONE OF THE MANY PRESS TRIBUTES 

THE STADIUJI—A CHERISHED DRBAJI COME TRUE 
0^•E OF THE GREATEST TRIBUTES TO ROCKNE—THE ST. JOE VALLEY CLUB'S BANQUET OP 1929 
iiiiiiii«iiii«ilt)tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiii)iiiiiiiiiii>iilit>iitiii>i)iiiiiii I iiiiiiiuiQ 

Q-• •ll«l)llllllllllllllllttllMII««llttllMllllliniltllMIIIIMtl)ttlll IIDtllllllllttlMIIIIIII IttlllHimillltltlllnlHlimt fS] 

» » POETRY 
(ED. NOTE: Poetry is one of the most.satisfying expressions of a personal sentiment. It is only natural, then, that Knute Eockne's death should have brought in its wake a flood of verse. The ALUMNUS has here gathered only a. minor anthology, attempting, again in this phase, to reproduce the remarkable cross-section of Eockne's public. Geniuses, schoolboys, women, priests and pauper appear even in this comer of Bockne verse. It is only indicative.) 
The New Recruit Roclfne Requiem 
By H. I. PHILLIPS By JEAN BOSQUET 
(Associated Press StafE Writer) 

If there is a certain Heaven— 
Just a spot tJiat's set aside The tolling bells of stricken Notre Dame 
In the unseen misty distance Gave ringing voice to requiem profound,Wliere the valiant spartsmen ride; And penned in gold, a new immortal iianieIf there are beyond the borders 

Purpled hills that strong men roam Within VaVialla's corridors is found. 
There's a joy these April m^omings Let ring tlie bells, and hour each rev'rent headNolo tliat Boclcne has come home. 
Where chivalry and honor count for most— If there needs must be up yonder Tlie Rock, the old Rock Unied by all, is dead. Now and then some manly strife— 
And silence grips an unbelieving fiost. 

Now and then a test of courage 
Just as in the earthly life; Tlie Rock against which thund'rous waves were spentIf tlie battle-scarred departed In vain onslaught tliat died in futile spray,

Yearn for thrills that once they knew There^s a cheer siveeps through tlie spaces Is vanished from, tlie Irish battlement. Now that \Rockne's broken through. Where once it tUTTied the conflict's tide away. 
If tlve Kings of Sport still gather The stalwart band that scaled tlie crested height.
Wlien tliey've crossed tlie Great Divide 
And enjoy new deeds of valor 

Fair victors on the throng-encircled field, As they roam tlie spaces wide; Where nurtured by tlieir Viking chieftain's might, If the truly great of sportdom 
And like their Rock knew naught of how to yield.For a missing fighter pine Therms a slwut of joy tliat's bowidless 
Gird well the raiders for the battle's sliock.
Now that Knute lias crossed the line! 
Without the guidance of tlie master hand— If tlie heroes of life's scrimmage Take up the gauntlet of the mighty Rock, And the wagers of the fight Who watches from Valhalla's distant land. 
Meet above the starry stretches—• 
Up above the day and night; 

Play liard the game he loved, but clean and fair. 
If tlie football valiants gather As he would play who filled his destiny;Still to bravely play the game 

Therms a new recruit this springtime His place upon the vacant bench is there— 
Rockne—Knute—from Notre Dame! Hold high the fallen master's memory! 
Margaret AngUn's Tribute 
(Over the NBC. April 4) 
Because Eockne belonged so greatly to the men, and He swung clean-souled across the grass and dirt. to the boys of the country, a woman's voice tonight 
And taught strong youth to come clean through. In simple honesty he gazed at men.
might seem out of place were it not that each man and 
Then, in God^s way, he made his—great—last— 
each boy—Eockne himsdf belonged in some measure— 
"forward pass."

to his women. So, for the mothers and sisters who sat and thrilled and shouted with them at their tri­
He reached the goal! Went through!
umphs—^those boys that Mrs. Eockne has called so 
And there,—he met a Man—viith smiling face lovingly "Knute's boys"—and who now sit stilled and And hand outstretched,—who welcomed him. quiet with them in their grief—^I pay this humble That Man, Who once had said, tribute. "Of such—is the Kingdom of Heaven!" 
•iiMtiiiiiiiiiiiiiHintiiMiintiiitniiiiiuiMiiiiiuaniiniiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiitiiiiiMiitniiiiiiiiNuiiiniHHnumiiiiiiiitiiiiiiuittitiiitiiitiMiiitiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiuiiuiiti •Hiiitiitiiiiiiniia 
May, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Q.. Itllllllll I Ill lllilltlilliilllilllillllitllilllliitiilltlllulillMllllllllMllMlKMlltiiMliltiiiiiitHiiiiillliiitilltlliHDlUtllMllinn 
Knule T^ockne; He Was a Man 
By jAjiEs WEBER LINN 
© (Chicago "Times") 

They bury Rock today. * They lay aivay A fighter who Iiad learned to praise and pray. How much he taught ymmg manhood, Wlio can say? Sportsmanship, hardihood. Judgment, pride in straight thinking, and the good Great joy of comradeship and loyalty. All these; but more. Much more, he taught. To think with shame Of meanness and unfaith; to oian a creed And to confess it boldly. What's life for But to say what you think, to do the best you can As a high-hearted, brave American? American—t/ioi was Rock! Bom of the viking stock. Winning to fame In a land strange at first, but later on Made all his own! Wliere was your father bom? In Peniisylvania, Italy or beyond the Rhine? In Texas, or in Illinois? Or on some dull, hill-'miated 
mom In Poland? Fine, boy, fine! Provided you grew up to seize Your opportunities And pass them on to others as you cojild; Tried to be good; Were honest in your loork as in your play And studied always to be sure your way Was the best way you knew. Tliat ^uas the %vay that you, Rockne, old felloto, grew To be a man— A great American! And who today 
Hero of all wide-flung fields of play Bring roses to your bier? Why, the ^vhole country's here! The president sends his message, and the 'bo who limps 
thronigh the streets And the procession meets Tliat marches in your praise. Falls in behind, and says: "That's Rock tliey're takin'. Listen, guy, Nobody never took Rock, up till now!" No, Rockne, nobody but Death Could take you, old Higli Heart! And when you fell Before the sivift rush took away your breath, I think yozc. put your liand upon the shoulder Of the man next you, xoith a smile. Bold in your life, you tomild be bolder Before Death's face. Ah, who can tell Your story. Rock, 
Better, wMle still xue feel the sliock Of your quick passing, tlian In just these words, HE WAS, A MAN! 
Knute Rockne 
By MEIGS 0. FKOST 
(In the New Orleans "States") 

Never again w^ll see him-crouch In the midst of the Irish squad. Tense by the sidelines, peering out At the Team on the cleat-torn sod. Never again, with his rock-hewn face And his eyes like points of flame. Watching the boys he coached and loved Go out there and win the game. ' 
Never again xuill tlie Bleachers^ shout And tlie cheering section's roar Beat at his ears as his team lopes out To his: "Noio! Go in and score!" Never again between the halves. Hid from the Stadium's din. Will !iis voice, in the siveat-soaJced dressing-room. Make wrecks storm out—amd win! 
Never again those flashing thrusts He dreamed, and his team drove home. While maniacs yelped at the score-boards tale. From the shores of the Gulf to Nome. Never again Four Horsemen ride To tlie halls of deathless fame (Their ichip and spur the sound of his voice) With the stuff they did in his name. 
Into the game he stormed his way. And he moulded the game to his need. A million boys are Men today That their hearts have knoivn his creed. Hit Hard!—Live Clean!—Heads Up!—Shoot Square!­Dmi't Alibi—End What You Start! That xvas the stuff that got him there— Knute of the Fighting Heart! 
Crash of conflict where brawn meets brawn And bratun is baffled by brain— That xvas the breath of life to him! That was the realm of his reign! Like an eagle lazmched from a rocky crag. On Victory's path he flexo. But when, guts were needed to meet Defeat, He was rock and eagle, too! 
Hard and fast was the game he played Till the final pistol-crack. Storming a continent undismayed 
• With the boys he loved at his JacS. Champ of the Champs from coast to coast— King of the Stadium's Sod— 
Hail and farewell as your gallant soul Goes storming up to God! 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

Iiiluiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiii"""" •iiiiiiiiiiiHMn 
B" 
iiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiMt Hit i«it ••mill) llll)llllllllt)lniitli)tllttllltllililltllitiill •iiiii tiiiii IIIIDIIIIIIIIII •El 
Last Touchdown 
By MAURICE T . ANDREWS, '17 
On Cartier field deep sliadows rise, The sliouts of game are o'er; Across the turf vast sadness lies. Sis voice will ring no more. Tlie Viking chieftain sailed away. In winged ship he sped. Talce off tlie suits! Call off the play! Rockne, the man, is dead. 
n. 

So faithful to the Gold and Blue, Tliough tempted by his fame. So loyal, staunch and N. D. true, He kept his pledge and played the game. A fierce unrest within his heart, A love of youth and love of strife; A m/ister craftsnian of his art. His worthy gifts to life. 
in. 

So many tasks are left undone, So many games are still unplayed; But Rock has made his final run. His Master's sigtial he obeyed. Gridiron Jieroes bow in grief. Youth pays last homage to its friend; His stay on earth was all too brief And all too soon tlie tragic end . . . 
A Boy's Tribute 
Few adults know, or will ever know, what school boys felt when they learned of the death of Knute Rockne. Yet, because he was a hero, admired by them in the worshipfiil but silent manner of youth, deep ran the streams of grief when he was taken out of their world. Among the papers of John Jonas, Joliet, Illi­nois, Mrs. Catherine Jonas, the mother, found these lines. 
K is for keenness—he was always so alert; 
N is for his nobleness—felt by anyone who knew him; 
TJ is for his unionism—lie stressed it till it hurt; 
T is for his tenderness—toliile he watched the game before him; 
E was his effectiveness—it never failed to work, 
E stands for Rockne, a name that shines alone. 
0 is for the odds at which he placed each struggling 
team; C is for tlie criticism that cut clear to the bone; K tills time for kindness, his acts were just and clean; N is for the niceness that was his at school or home; E is for the wonder eyes now closed from eartlUy 
O master, inaster, youth is crying. Make us wiser, make us stronger. The sod is mute where lie is lying; Close the gates and wait no longer. Close the gates, let no one see Sadness vast and sorroio deep; A Viking ship sailed out to sea, A master mind has gone to sleep. 
V. 
But when the game is on again. When foe is cliarging liard and lota. The coach will rise to guide his men. They see him beckon, down they go; The perfect play, tlie long, long run, A flitting race 'twixt goal and goal. The goal is crossed, the game is won. One score for Rock, God rest his soul . 
VI. 
Deep sliadows fall on Cartier field. Life and fame have gone away; Gone is the Viking from our sight Unto a fairer land of play. Tfiousands sfumt and tlumsands clieer The Irish murch from coast to coast; The foe is strong but foe will fear The shadow of Knute Rockne's ghost. 
A oel—A nd Farewell 
SEAN PADRAIC STEEL Easter Sunday, 1931. 
Lines dedicated to the "Rock" that was square-cut, and hewn to immortal lines. The heroic sportsman of Our Lady of Notre Dame, who might have stepped out of the pages of the ancient Norse Eddas, into our twentieth-century hearts. A world hero, whose praises shall be sung unto the end. As long as the hearts of men bom ivith that unquenchable flame of chivalry. A never-to-be-forgotten, lovable, "Rock." "Great in victory! Greater in defeat! Immortal in death!" 
L' envoi. He kept his rendezvous with the Grim Spectre, Death! Not pillowed on down, with sweet flowers round him 
bowed. To lull his senses into sleep, ere that final breath Slipped its mortal shroud, to find its resting place 
with God! 

Not on the field of battle, which he oft-times trod. Nor with the praises of a tumultuous crowd Ringing in his ears, there upon the sod— Where the very Heavens echo'd his name aloud. 
Nor at the hearth-side of his own dear home. But in the confines of a tiny, storm-swept plane. His soul burst forth, the skies to roam. And wend its weary way to God, from whence it came. 
ISbliillilillilli<l>l>illlllii>iltllliiililllliiiiitilllliiiiitllltiilillUiiitiiltiiitiltliii(iiiiiiiii)itii(iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
••tllltlliiiilltllllllMIIIIIIllllliiii 
Q 

May, 1931 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
|S]illlllllllllllllllllltllll,llllllllllllltiiiiiiii|iiiiii)iiiiiii|iiiiiiiiiiiiiii)||||||||||i|||iiiiiiiiiiiiti)i|iii 
I  The Rock of Notre Dame  
I  By  DB. JOH N J.  EYAN  
I  (St. Paul "News")  

I Fling wide the chapel doors of Notre Dame; .i Let the far flung tliousands who revere his name 
i Gather in silence, and in requiem 

I Mute homage pay "The Rock of Notre Dame." 
I Let tlie tramp of marching feet beside the bier, 
i Go echoing o'er the Sporting World, to hear 
I A lasting tribute to. a man of might, 
I A noble soldier stricken at the height. 
I Leader and comrade of the boys Jie ktieiv 
i ATuLtaught the game as only lie could do; 
I Taught them as well, to play the game of life 
I With courage born on battlefields of strife. 
I Taught that the game is greater than the name j Of any individual seeking fame; 
i TluLt team play, fairness and the will to win 
I Will caiTy on to victory in the end. 
i Gone is the vian, but may his viem'ry live 
i A monument to sports and youth, luho give 
I Tokens of remembrance when they play 
I The game he loved, for him, and in his way. 
i Generalissimo of Coaches, faretvell, 
I Let chapel bells of sorrow toll the knell 
I Of parting, with her glorious son of fame, 
I God speed thee on, oh. Rock of Notre Dame. 
-a 


Rockne Is Gone 
By AGNES AKMBKUSTEB 
Shelby, Ohio. 
Humble loords, these, humble hands Forming thoughts a heart demands; For today a nation, proud, Stands—head bowed . . . 
l\[ere words, these, that cannot take The sting away, nor hush the ache Tliat crept in hearts of all today— That crept in five crushed hearts to stay. 
What tribute, when a nation cries. Because a sick bird in the skies Falls, winged, to .earth, face in the sod. And sends a gallant soul to God. 
What tribute, sons, to him we pay— A nation, mourns his loss today! Wife and mother, most bereaved, A million hearts with you have grieved . 
You, men of Notre Dame, will see His kindly face,through years to be; Hear his voice, his battles win— March on to victory, for—him. 
In a country's heart, tonight. There burns a sorrowing vigil light, A broken wing—a soul sped on. A falling star—the Rock is gone. 

Rockne's Dead! 
By GEOEGE BUGBEE (Memphis "Press-Scimitar") 
Somehow words seem inadequate; They hobble on a cripple's gait, 
TIio thoughts leap forth to challe^ige Fate— 
Rockne's dead. 

This thing lias robbed us of our speech, We grope for phrases out of reach. Somehow we can't quite close the breach— 
Rockne's dead. 

Our senses, paralyzed by shock. Fall back upon the age-old stock Of euphemisms, but they mock— 
"Rockn^s dead!" 

This case, someliow, is different (We eulogized when others went) It seems best now just to lament— 
"Rockne's dead!" 
From Prince and Pauper 
A Verse by JACK BUTLER 
Los Angeles County Farm. Hondo, Calif. 
SmiUng Irish eyes that beamed and gleamed Like sun flashes from the Fairie^ Well Haven't glistened, gleamed, nor smiled or beamed 
Since Sockne felL 
"True Irish Hearts/' is his final home; In the tablets they have etched his name In letters golden as the gilded dome 
Of Notre Dame. 
Both the worlds, the New and Old, Scandinavian, Teuton, Yasrilc and Cockney 
Uncovered while the death knell tolled 
Above Knute Rockne. 
Cheers tliat thrilled amd caused his teams to play 
Were silent as he-made the final goal. And white quivering lips did say and pray 
God rest his soul. 

llllllllltlllltllUIHIIIIIIiiniltllltllMMItMlllllllHlttllltMIMUIIIIIUtllMIIUlHltlllltlllUllltHIMUIimilltintttMttMQ 
llllltllilllllttllllllll Itlllllllllltlllllllili 

326 May, 1931
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
H" 
iittiiiitiiiiiiiiiii lllltltlllllllllllllllllllllMIMIMIIMIItllUIIUIIlllUIIMIIl tllll ••••IIDIIItlltlllll IllltlllU e 

Holy Ground 
By EEV. JOHN B . KEIXY Spiritual Director, Catholic Writers* Guild of America. 
The shadow of Good Friday's Cross was never so vividly traced upon the bosom of Mother Earth as when it stood up sharply against the thrice brilliant sun of Easter mom, drenched in the rays of the Light of the World. Then it was that the nimbus of immortal glory encompassed the divine instrument of Redemption which had pierced the side of that same Mother Earth, called to the sad vocation of elevating the dead Body of her Creator before the stricken gaze of men. 
It was an array of Twelve that Christ called to be his retinue as He traced the Way of the Cross beneath the Triumphal Arch of Death into the glory of im­mortal victory. These found their crosses in the arenas of the world that hated all Christ's beloved. 
In the land dedicated to the Immaculate Conception there rose up, to proclaim Christ's power to America; the Eleven of Our Lady. They sallied forth to be her champions in the stadia of her Son's empire. They sought and found their Captain in Christ. With a holy ambition to share His omnipotence in their march to victory they trained and grew strong eating His Flesh and drinking' His Blood daily at the gridiron Euchar­istic Table around which gather the "noble athletes of Christ." Knowing well that He is the Source of power —^that power comes only from Him—^they sought it at its ultimate fount, its undefiled spring, until they might say with Galahad: 
"My strength is as tJie strength of ten "Because my lieart is pure," 
It is one of the mystical paradoxes of the power that God bestows that one must lose his life to find it. 
and these young men, like Gipp of yesterday, died each 
to self that Christ might live in all the team, one spirit 
and one flesh, winning its way to the goal as one body. 
There is a new shrine upon the bosom of Mother Earth today, a spot made holy by the blessed gaze of the Father's eyes that mark the resting place of every sparrow that falls from the skies. It was the heart of the eagle that seeks the sun which beat within the breast of the intrepid Knute Eockne, teacher of men in Our Lady's University. His rugged body was to his soul a valiant opponent obstructing its advance in the footsteps of the Divine Captain Who once had said, "And I, if I be lifted up, will draw all. things to me." His soul shook off the clutching clasp of the flesh and found itself free for the dash that gained the eternal goal-posts. The body fell to earth; the soul was re­ceived by the Light of the World and placed within the Father's waiting bosom. 
While the prayers of friends below ascended in the wake of his soul's aerial journey, the eulogies of po­tentates and presidents interpreted for men the strength and beauty of a true son whose Alma Mater is Our Lady. Near him was found his Eosary, the symbol of his devotion to Notre Dame. 
The layman who led American youth to the living banquet spread upon the altars of Christ, found that paradox true, the strength in death that is his who brushes the garment of Him Who is the Life and the Light of men. He, like the team he trained, knew where to seek that strength, and was justified in the event. 
"May his soul, and the soul of all the faithful de­parted, through the mercy of God rest in peace!" 

To All Who Knew Him 
By CAKBOLL B . CHOUINAED Graduate Student, TTniversity of Wisconsin. 
Knute Eockne is not dead. 

The flesh and bone that walked among us has gone on, and we who are weak bewail not his death, but rather our misfortune. Yet "we make of circumstance what we will. When shock duUs all feelings but the sense of irreparable loss, one message, "He is gone," and that one only, means anything, penetrates, takes possession of us. 
But there are other cries. They grow louder than the mourner's wail. They rise from a hundred million throats. Hear them! 
"He gave us an ideal of manhood, A flesh and blood ideal of modem time." 
"His was the valiant spirit, keen brain, quick eye, that showed the way to. victory, thriUed others with the way he took it, held it fast" 
"No narrow skiU was his—he romped the length and breadth of a mighty gridiron, his craftsmanship nowhere excelled." 
"No single field can claim exclusive loss; men he never knew have been fired with the zeal of his splendid, conquering example." 
How, then, can he be dead? Is memory dead? No, nor are the things of his creation dead. They are things of the spirit that cannot die. Let each 
man name his legacy, these treasures, for himself. There are none so lowly, none so high, they have escaped the compelling inspiration and the human­ness with which he showed the victory way. 

As long as men have souls, Knute Eockne cannot die. His legend shall grow mighty, pure, in time. And yon, who now receive in death the son you loved in 
life,—-who knew him best,—^go on! Be true to his tradition—She'll know, from where he treads a mightier sod. 
Oh envied Notre Dame! 

ISItiiiiiimiiii •iiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiMiiiit mil itiiMiiiHitiiMiniiiiiiiiiiminiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiumiiiiiniimiiiiiiiiimiiiimimiiiiiiniiiiiimiilSI 

PTtiiimitiiii iiiiiii 
lllllllllllllllilllillDllllirilllMlllllllltltitlli llllllllllllllllilll 

He Sleeps Tonight Beneath 
A Tree 
By ZorLA CONAN 

He sleeps tonight beneath a tree, 
Council Oak safeguards his lee; Lilies, the flowers of Eastertide Proclaim their season far and wide. The flr is siueet viith the fragrant knell Shed by tliose symbols of star and bell. Breezes linger in the velvet grass— Gather to bless him, whisper and pass. Little prayers murmur through the leaves. 
While the setting sim a halo weaves. And 'ere slie slips into the west Lays a crown of gold upon the crest 
Of Notre Dame whose dear-loved dome His liappy eyes had faced as home. 
The great Alchemist in a plan Gave rare qualities to man. Scion, He chose, of ruddy stock. And mere loved him and called him "Rock." 
To him was given the flint-like spark 
That lights for men their common dark And reveals more clear to eager youth 
The prizes of fair play and truth. 
World renowned "Genius of a game" And yet, not so much Ids fame In that, rather, tlmt his brave mhid Charged to strength, the weakness of moTikind. His was no weak fading in the night. But death in victory at the day's height. His meteoric flight blazed the skies And the golden heavens luere cleft. Now America stares with solemn eyes At the lonely void the "Rockf' lias left. 
iiiniiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiMmtimiiitiiinHMiniimiiiiiiiimnmimiiiiimitnimtiiiiiiiinfil 
Falling Stars  f  
By BEET M'GRANE  |  
(Des Moines "Tribune")  |  
Stars cut adrift in the heavens,Plummeting off into space,Remind me somewhat of a deathSmashed in a desolate place.  plane  | | | |  
But couldn't the star be a ghost-ballKicked from a spectre-like toe,Or a pass whipped over the defenseBy ghostly, accurate throw?  | | | |  
There must be a field there someiohere,There must be a place where menTake up anew the old struggleThe battle for first and ten.  = i | |  
There must be chalklines of StardustAnd turf of velvet and goldAnd backs with drive and deceptionAnd lines that hammer and hold.  | | | =  
There must be clamoring legionsHigh on the heavenly hill, 'Heroes of all the agesKeen for the combat still.  •  i | | |  
Perliaps they  knew  of Knute  Rockne,  \  

Perhaps they needed him there, 1 To drill their celestial forces | On phantom field somewhere. | 
Whenever they hand him a ghost-ball, | One with a star's ruddy gleam, \ Pass word along down the sidelines i H^ll build them a powerful team. | 
Stars cut adrift in the heamens, i Plummeting off into space, | . Remind me no more of a death plane | Smashed in a desolate place. I 
Rather, Fll think of a ghost-ball, | Phantom stars playing the game; = And alivays Pll think of Knute Rockne, = The genius of old Notre Dame. | 


Knute Rockne 
By LELA M . STILES 
Rockne is dead . . . And on tlie greening lawn But when the summer's green has turned to flame. At Notre Dame the sunlight dances still, " His feet are restless in VaVuUUis halls— Or weaves its lacy patterns on the hill, And when you hear those stem, staccato calls, 
Vnwilling to believe that he is gone. 'Ttvill be old Rock, coaching the opening game! 
Summer will come again. The quiet trees "Tlie boysf' unll hear him amd their lips groio grim; Will bend above his couch and drop a tear. Their bodies tense; their browa will bead loith sweat. The wind will sing a solemn requiem here. And though their throats are tight, their eyelids wet. And twilight soothe him mth its reveries. They'll charge the enemy and WIN—for him. 
III

 iiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

ftiiitim"""""""""" 
THE NOTRE DAME ALXJMNXIS May, 1931 

J. F. Gushing, *06, Gives $300,000 For Engineering Building 
First N. D. Graduate to Present Building to Notre Dame; President of Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Company of Chicago, Lay Trustee. 
New heights of alumni achievement were reached April 20 with the an­nouncement by the University of the gift of ?300,000 by John F. Gushing, '06, for the erection of a new building for the College of Engineering. It marks the personal achievement of Mr. Gushing, but even more than that it marks the confidence of an alumnus in the high purposes of his alma mater, a confidence which fortune enables him, in this instance, to en­dorse ^Wth material resources which will do much to speed the achievement of those very purposes. 
Jolm F. Gushing, the donor, now president of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock company, Ghicago, is a Notre Dame man. He was graduated from the University in 1906, with a degree from the Department of Givil Engineering. 
In his correspondence with the Uni­versity in regard to this donation, Mr. Gushing said: "As an engineering graduate of Notre Dame who has fol­lowed the profession of engineering, I am naturally interested in the Col­lege of Engineering at my own school and that from two points of view. Even though a quarter of a century has passed since my undergraduate days there, I feel I still know the spirit of the place, the atmosphere in which the boys live and study. I think I know, too, the quality of the men who compose the faculty and appreciate the spirit that animates them. In other words I can still see Notre Dame from the inside, so to speak. 
"On the other hand, twenty-five years of engineering work away from there has given me the other side of the picture. I have learned engineer­ing from experience. I know what the graduate in engineering is facing when he leaves school. Knowing both the difficulties and the opportunities on the outside, I can take an objec­tive view of the professional prepara­tion which the college gives and check this against the requirements which the profession makes. I have done this often enough in my own mind, in more or less informal way. It is difficult to reduce those reflections to anything like a fixed formula, but a few things stand out pretty clearly. 
"I conceive that an engineer, speak­ing particularly but not exclusively of my own field of civil engineering. 
JOHN F . GUSHING, '06 
must be a man with a conscience in his profession. The gravest of all natural responsibilities are borne by him. He will be responsible for hu­man safety and human lives. He must know his materials and his prin­ciples of construction. He must respect the one and be faithful to the other ..." 
In continuing his letter Mr. Gush­ing remarks on the serious aspect of the responsibility of the en^neering profession, at the same time pointing out the unlimited possibilities that exist for a young man contemplating a life work in some field of engineer­ing. "There are still great oppor­tunities for those prepared to seize them. The field of service, indeed, is constantly broadening. Electricity, for example, seems always to be in its infancy. Nobody knows what the next day will produce. The same is true as to the extension of the principles of mechanics. We want adventuring minds in all departments of engineer­ing. Where shall we look for these results except to the products of schools like Notre Dame?" 
In concluding his letter to Father O'Donnell, Mr. Gushing says, "Being deeply impressed with "The Needs of Notre Dame' as so clearly set forth by you in The Abimrms of January, 1930, and because I find at Notre Dame the conditions that make for tiie twofold 
training of great engineers in all the departments of engineering, a tech­nical training that ranks with the best and a training in character founda­tion nowhere excelled, and because I feel I owe Notre Dame a debt of gratitude which I can never fully discharge, I ask you to accept from me a gift of three hundred thousand dollars toward the erection of a hall of engineering to serve the immediate needs of the College of Engineering and to meet the expectations of older men like me who confidently look back to Notre Dame to produce the men that are to carry on." 
The building, designed by Francis Kervick, professor of architecture at Notre Dame, will be called the John 
F. Gushing Hall of Engineering. It will be located east of the new Law building, to which it will conform in architecture, Gothic, carried out in a modem manner. The exterior of the structure will be decorated with carved panellings representing noted Catholic scientists. Ampere, Volta, Ohm and Roentgen, are a few of the men who will be thus honored. 
The new hall is designed in tliree sections: the first, containing class and drafting rooms, will be three stories high. A second portion, two stories in height, will house the va­rious laboratories and machine shops, while between the two, a single floor court will include an assembly room, seating approximately five hundred and fifty students. 
In 1897, the College of Engineering at Notre Dame was etablished. Dur­ing the thirty-four years since its or­ganization it has grown in enrollment from seventy-nine students to four hundred and thirty-nine, in 1930. The old enginering building contains a mechanical laboratory, a machine shop and various laboratories. 
The erection of a new Engineering building at the University, makes possible the extension of the expan­sion policy adopted by University officials six years ago. Since that time three dormitories, Lyons, How­ard and Morrissey halls, the dining hall, a Law building, and Notre Dame stadium have been added to the cam­pus. Plans for the immediate future include, in addition to the Engineer­ing hall, a Commerce building and two more dormitories, Dillon and Alumni halls. 

Ma7j, 1931 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
•••llllllttllllt •••••iiiiniiiii llllllllltlllttlltllMII iiiiiiiiiiiiiii B
H 

Address by the Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C. S. C. 
Broadcast 
Sir. Toastmaster, Guests of Honor, Members of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, Ladies and Gentlemen of the Radio Audience. 
I begin with a word of sincere thanks to WGN, the Tribune Station on the Drake Hotel, for its very great courtesy in tendering us this interval of time in our celebration of Univer­sal Notre Dame Night. I wish to take this occasion, too, to express our appreciation to Mr. Quin Ryan, per­sonally, for the extraordinarily splen­did manner in which he accomplished his part in the broadcast of recent religious sendees at Notre Dame which the whole nation, it seems, at­tended in the spirit of mourners. I refer, of course, to that sad happen­ing which must give a solemn tone to the observance this year of Uni­versal Notre Dame night. Wherever Notre Dame men are gathered to­gether, there will be a reverent bow­ing of heads at the mention of the name of our beloved Knute Eockne, and from every heart there will as­cend a silent prayer that peace may be his possession and rest in Our Father's House, in Paradise. 
Solemn but not sombire and over­cast need this memorial be. He him­self would not wish that the joy of living, of which he was so fine an apostle and exemplar, should be clouded for us just because the joy which he brought into our lives was so suddenly and so tragically stopped. Rather, I take farewell of him, in the name of all Notre Dame men, in the following beautiful lines addressed by their author. Major Maurice Baring, to a companion lost in the Great War: 
Because of you we will be slad and gny, Rememberinff you, we will be brave and strons. And bail the advent of each dangerous day And meet the last adventure with a sonff. And as you proudly gave your jewelled gift. We'll give our lesser offering with a smile. Nor falter on that path where, all too swift. You led the way and leapt the golden stile. Whether new paths, new heights to climb you 
find. Or gallop through the unfooted asphodel. We know >TOU know we shall not lag behind Nor halt to waste a moment on a fear. .\nd you will speed us onward with a cheer And wave beyond the stars that all is well. 
I am confident that if "Rock" could speak to us tonight he would say that all is well. Especially I am sure he would approve our carrying on with the coaching staff which he had built 

 From WGN, Chicago, on Universal Notre Dame Night 
I mill 

up, and that he would welcome the announcement, now made for the first time, that his old friend and coach, Jesse Harper, has been engaged as Athletic Director at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame is approaching the close of its S9th scholastic year, grad­uating a class of some 450 seniors, coming up from its five colleges of Arts and Letters, Enginering, Law, Commerce and Science. Its enroll­ment, representing several foreign countries, including the Orient, and every State in the Union except one, reached a total of 3200, in spite of the fact that serious efforts were made to hold registration to a total of 3000, and some few hundreds of applicants were denied admission. Next year 3000 will be the absolute maximum admitted. Facilities for accommodating students on the cam­pus next year will be increased by the addition of two new residence halls 
•Kith a total capacity of 4S2 boys. One of these structures will be known as Alumni Hall, the other will be named Dillon Hall in memory of Father Patrick Dillon, second presi­dent of the University, the centenary of whose birth occurs this year. 
In addition to these important ad­juncts, as we consider them, to Notre Dame's traditional mode of student life and training, the University will have two new buildings, one to house the School of Commerce, the other the School of Enginering. The first of these is made possible by a gift of 5200,000.00 from one of Chicago's most esteemed citizens, whose fame and whose record of public service are national and international, Mr. Edward N. Hurley, in whose honor this structure will be called "The Edward N. Hurley College of For­eign and Domestic Commerce." 
The second building likewise we owe to the generosity of a Chicago benefactor, a member of this Club, a Notre Dame Alumnus,-a classmate of my own, Mr. John F. Gushing, CJE. '06, now President of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Company. His gift of 5300,000.00 makes possible "The John F. Gushing Hall of Engineer­ing" which we hope will be ready for occupancy in September. I make fiiis announcement with the more satisfac­tion as Mr. Cushing's benefaction is the largest single gift the University 
 iiiiiiiiiii III tilSI 
has received and it is the first 'im­portant foundation made at Notre Dame by a Notre Dame Alumnus. There can be only one such first gift, and I am sure that Notre Dame men everywhere will join with me in con­gratulating Mr. Gushing upon his unique distinction. In this connec­tion, it should be recalled that last year announcement was made that a substantial endowment for the Col­lege of Law was provided for in the will of the late William' P. Breen, '77, of Fort Wayne, Indiana. Thus in one year's time, the Colleges of Law, Commerce and Engineering have received munificent benefactions. 
If we record this as an event of major importance and if our satis­faction seem naive to some of our contemporaries in the field of educa­tion, I might point out that "relativ­ity" plays a part in calculations other than those associated with the name of Einstein. Harvard's endowment is a hundred and twelve million dollars, I believe. (These figures may be out of date, for I haven't seen today's paper). Yale University has re­ported in one year alone gifts amounting to twenty-three million dollars. Incidentally, this is two million dollars more than the total combined endowment of all Catholic colleges and universities in the United States, acquired over a period of nearly one hundred and fifty years. The University of Notre Dame in this its 89th year of service has a perma­nent endowment of one million dol­lars. Consequently when in the space of one year gifts to an amount ap­proximating that total are received, we can not help being pleased. It is not that the work of all these years is only now being appreciated. Notre Dame men have always been singu­larly devoted to their school, proud of its record, and fond of the men, from Father Sorin down, who put their life's blood into their work. Rather it is, I think, that now there is a greater general competence than formerly, matched with a finer spirit of sacrifice in the individual even where financial resources may not be extensive. 
Then, too, Notre Dame's appeal is cumulative and diversified. Millions of Americans know of last year's football record, but only Notre Dame 

THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS May, 19S1 
men know that out of fourteen inter­collegiate debates, some of them with the leading imiversities of the coun­try, Notre Dame won thirteen. This year to date we have won ten debates out of a total of twelve. Similarly, little news gets into the papers about our chemical research, but the leading chemists of America keep their eyes iixed on our laboratories. Again, there is the literary tradition of Notre Dame. It is interesting to note that upon the formation this year of the Catholic Poetry Society of America, three members of our faculty were invited to accept charter membership in this national organiza­tion. And passing on to another de­partment of art, it is not too much to say that the whole United States was enraptured by the beauty of the music recently broadcast from our campus when the University choir sang at the funeral services of Mr. Eockne. 
These things the Notre Dame man knows and loves. They go to make up the appeal of his school. He feels that Notre Dame today, in art and music and letters, in science, in law, in engineering and in the other de­partments is true to the best Notre Dame traditions, has kept faith with the men of the past, Gregori, Girac, Stoddard and Egan, Father John Zahm and Albert Zahm, Stace and Green, Neill and Howard, Hoynes and McCue. 
Certainly those men to whose keep­ing the destinies of our University are now committed, whose spokesman I happen to be, celebrate this Univer­sal Notre Dame night in a spirit of profound gratitude to the excellent Mother of God, our patroness, who has given us such good work to do and such joy in the doing of it. 
We rejoice in the loyal support of the finest body of alumni in the land and we are grateful to uncounted hosts of friends, the world over, for their devotion to our University. 
Students' Memorial Mass 

The fact that no Masses could be sung during Holy Week caused the solemn requiem High Mass for the repose of the soul of Mr. Eockne to be postponed until Thursday, April 9, the day following the return of the students from the Easter recess. 
Upwards of 2500 students filled Sacred Heart church to the doors on that Thursday morning to pray for the Notre Dame leader. Distribution of Holy Communion was started at the beginning of the Mass and the stream of communicants was con­tinuous until the end of the cere' mony. The student body to a man received the Sacrament in honor of the great coach. 
Celebrating the solemn Mass was the Eeverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. Assisting him were the Eeverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C, vice-presi­dent, as deacon, and the Eeverend 
J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, director of studies, as sub-deacon. . 


Many Prominent Figures Attend Burial Rites 
Packed into Sacred Heart church on the campus Saturday, April 4, were men from all over the country, friends and admirers of Knute Rockne, Notre Dame's beloved coach. There were business and professional men, Rockne's old players of other years, coaches to whom he had taught the game, men from other universities who had come to know and to love Eockne through athletic contacts with the man. 
Mayor James Walker of New York arrived Friday to pay tribute to Mr. Eockne and Mayor Harry Mackay of Philadelphia arrived on Saturday. King Haakon, VTI, of Norway, who is to confer a knighthood on Mr. Bockne, sent Olaf Bemts, Norwegian consul, and six noted Norwegians to place a wreath on the tomb. Governor Leslie of Indiana wired that he would make every effort to be at the funeral. 
Eockne's old teammates and hun­dreds of the men he had coached at Notre Dame were on the campus for the funeral. Elmer Layden, James Crowley, Don Miller, and Stuhldreher of 1924 fame were there, as were James Phelan, Jack Elder, and Jack Cannon. The officials in charge of various Notre Dame games were rep­resented by Ed. Thorpe, J. A. Wyatt, and W. J. O'Brien. Among the coaches of the various universities were Chick Meehan of New York uni­versity, Supt. George Eemick of the 
U. S. Naval academy. Major Philip Fleming of the U. S. Military acad­emy, and Major Ealph Sasse, Army coach. Judge Walter Steffen of Car­negie Tech was there. Bay Eichen­laub, old Notre Dame man, and Charles Dorais, Bock's teanmiate, were present. Major John L. Grif­iiths, and Tad Jones of Yale were also in attendance. 
Howard Jones of Southern Cali­fornia, and Glenn "Pop" Warner came from the west coast; Dan McGngin, Vanderbilfs head coach; E. C. Lytton from Drake; James Phelan, from Washington, and Dr. Sutherland of Pittsburgh were other coaches pres­ent. Jack Eissman, donor of the Eissman trophy; Arch Ward, Warren Brown, and Christy Walsh, all leaders in the sport world, were to be seen. Other newspaper men present were Edward Meehan of the South Bend Tribune, Hugh O'Donnell of the New York Times, Mortimer P. Eeed of the South Bend News-Times, Francis Wallace of New York, Harvey Wood­ruff of the Chicago Tribune, and Jimmy Corcoran of the Chicago American. Business leaders were present too: Avery Bmndage of Chi­cago, A. E. Erskine of South Bend, James J.'Phelan of Boston, John P. Murphy of Cleveland, Herbert Shar­lock of South Bend, and Bay Graham, 
•
Fred Graham, Bobert Graham, Wil­liam A. Fisher, Charles T. Fisher, and Lawrence T. Fisher, all from Detroit. Edward Kelly, South Park Board commissioner of Chicago; Dr. C J. Barborka, of the Mayo clinic; Dr. D. IL Nigro of Kansas City, Mo., and Mayor W. E. Hinkle of South Bend-All these men were only a few of 

•
 those who came to South Bend to pay their last respects to Knute K. Eockne, coadi and Catholic gentleman. 


—From the ScJwlastic. 


Alumni Bank Heads 
Eeorganization of the Indiana Trust Co., at South Bend, Indiana with election of four new directors, an in­crease in the capital stock from 5100,­000 to 5200,000 and plans for expan­sion of several of the bank's depart­ments were announced recently. 
E. M. Morris, '06, president of the Associates Investment Co., South Bend, becomes chairman of the board of directors. E. J. McErlain, '91, associated with the Indiana Trust since its organization in 1922, be­comes president of the bank. Up to the present time Mr. McErlain has been Secretary-Treasurer of the com­
pany. 

Mav, 1931 THENOTREDAMEALUMNUS 331 
Qiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 



Eighty-Seventh Annual Commencement 
University of Notre Dame | 
(Tentative Program) | Central Standard Time | FRIDAY, JUNE 5 f Alumni Eegistration, All Day, Alumni Office, Admimstration Building. | 
12:30P. M. President's Address to the Class of 1931. I 
6:30P.M. Reunion Dinners (by individual arrangement). I 
8:00P. M. University Theatre Presentation, "The Merchant of I 
Venice"—^Washington Hall. | 
The University Golf Course will be open to Alumni all day. | 
The University Band will give a Concert at 6:30 p. m. on | 
the Campus. | SATURDAY, JUNE 6 | Alumni Registration, Alumni Office. | 
8:00A. M. Solemn Requiem Mass for Knute K. Rockne. . | 
9:30A. M. Last Visit of the Class of '31, Sacred Heart Church f (private). |
10:00A. M. 

Class Day Exercises and Award Of Honors, Gsrmnasium. |
12:00M 

Luncheon of Law Alumni, Faculty Dining Room. J Col. William J. Ho3mes, Honorary Chairman. I Hon. Thomas F. Konop, Honorary Chairman. I Prof. Clarence Manion, Executive Chairman. |
1:30 P. M. 

Council of Local Alumni Club Representatives. |
3:00 P. M. Baseball, Michigan State vs. Notre Dame. |
6:00P. M. Annual Alumni Banquet, East Dining Hall. I 
8:00 P. M. Musical Club's Presentation, Washington Hall. | 
. i The Studebaker Band will give a Concert at 6:30 p. m., | I on the Campus. | j The University Golf Course will be open all day. | 
SUNDAYJUNE 7 f I 8:30 A. M. Academic Procession, Main Building to Sacred Heart i i Church. I j 9:00 A. M. Solemn Pontifical Mass, Sacred Heart Church. I I Celebrant, Rt Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., LL.D., Bishop of | I Fort Wayne. | I Baccalaureate, Rt. Rev. John M. Gannon, D.D., D.C.L., | I LL.D., Bishop of Erie. | I Music, Moreau Seminaiy Choir. | j (Mass will be followed by the blessing of the Senior flag.) | i 11:00 A.M. Senior Flag Raising Exercises, Main Quadrangle. I I 12:00 M. Monogi-am Luncheon, Lay Faculty Dining Room. | I 2:00 P.M. Annual Alumni Meeting, Washington HaU. | I 5:00 P. M. Awarding of Degrees, University Gymnasium. | I Commencement Address, Angus D. McDonald, '00. | i Dix Reunions i i lonR 1893 1912 ,__g I i 1906 1894 1913 1926 | i 25-Year Reunion 1395 1914 5-Year Reunion i 1 1896 1915 1 
COME BACK TO COMMENCEMENT! | 
MiiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiniiiniiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiii iMMiiiiiiiiiii •MiiiiiiiiiiMMiii I iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiitiii»tii>ii>iitiiiiiiiiii>ii>«iiiHiiMiiiMiiitiMmiiimMimMitMnittiiMiiiMiiiMmnniiiiMitt«nii«mj^ 

El<. •lllllllllllltltlli iiiiiiiiiiiiniiti 


ATHLETICS: 
IIIKIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ii>BY JOSEPH FETRITZ, *32'Mittiiiiiiiiiii>iiti»"i"">ii>*'i'"ti"ii iiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiHiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiQ 
JesseC. Harper Returns to Notre Dameas Athletic Director 
Former Director Takes Reins of Rockne Regime; To Continue Policies; Anderson and Chevigny, 
Jesse C. Harpex% whom Knute K. Kockne succeeded at the close of the 1917 football season, has come back to take up again the athletic director­ship that was so tragically terminated for Rockne. The succession has met with universal acclaim. Success attended Harper's four years at Notre Dame. Under Rockne the Harper era was used as the basis for unpre­cedented achievement. There is a confidence that the Rockne regime ^vi^ live on in this unusual reversion. 
Under the new arrangement, also announced by Father O'Donnell, Harper will have control of all ath­letics. He will be assisted by "Hunk" Anderson, senior football coach, Jack Chevigny , junior football coach, George Keogan, basketball and base­ball coach, and John Nicholson, track coach. 
Harper is a graduate of the Uni­versity of Chicago, class of '06. He learned football under -A.. A. Stagg during his four years as an under­graduate. In 1913 he came to Notre Dame as director of athletics and football coach, and in 1914 he made Knute Rockne his assistant, and placed him in charge of the track team. In 1917 Harper resigned, and Rockne was made head football coach on Harper's recommendation. It was during the period from 1914 to 1917 that Harper and Rockne worked out the shift which is now famous as an integral part of the Notre Dame sys­tem. 
Harper made a remarkable record while in charge here from 1913 to 1917, inclusive. In his five year pe­riod his teams played 39 games and won 33 of them, with one resulting in a tie. In his first year here, in 1913, he turned out an imdefeated team, winning all seven games on the schedule. This was the team that in­augurated the long series with the Army. Rockne, as captain and star end on this team, and Dorais, as quarterback, were mainly responsible for the terrific 35 to 13 beating that was given the Army. This team also startled the football world by the in-
Coaches, "Carry On." 
JESSE HARPER 
vention and the practical use of the 
forward pass. 
The 1914 team lost two games, to Yale and to the Army. In 1915 Harper's team won six of the seven games, losing to Nebraska by a single touchdown. The next year the team won eight games, but was stopped by the Army. The 1917 team was de­prived of a perfect season by Ne­braska, who won by a single point. 
In a confirmation statement. Har­per expresses his pleasure for the op­portunity to resume his old position which he relinquished to his famous pupil, ICnnte Rockne. He says that he is "verj' much pleased, after being away so long, to be asked to come back again." He said that it was his intention to continue the athletic poli­cies now pursued here. His Kansas ranch is efficiently managed, and will not suffer by his absence, he said. 
That a great many changes have been brought about at Notre Dame during the past decade can hardly be denied. Yet as seen by Jesse ' Harper, who returns to Notre Dame after his absence of almost thirteen years, the University, paradoxically, is in essence the same, and at the 
same time unrecognizably different. 
In an interview with a Scholastic 
reporter on his return to Notre Dame, 
Mr. Harper said: 
"I had heard and read of the im­mense change in Notre Dame, but it was necessary for me to see the cam­pus itself, before I could actually realize the tremendous growth of the University. The physical appearance of'the campus amazed me. The sta­dium, the gymnasium, Howard, Morr rissey, St. Edward's and Lyons halls and the Law building were all new, and gave the place a decidedly dif­ferent aspect. 
"I was surprised and gratified to see the exceptionally large turnout for spring football practice. Such a group as I saw last Friday was undreamed of thirteen years ago." 
Mr. Harper assured the Scliolastic that the real Notre Dame was not changed. "During the short time I've been back," he said, "I have found the students much the same as before I left Notre Dame. They dress the same, their mannerisms are the same, and I believe that they them­selves are the same. The spirit of Notre Dame lives now as it always • will. 
"I came to Notre Dame as football coach in 1913, the year in which Knute Rockne captained the team and played his last college game. Our relationship that year might be com­pared to that of Mr. Rockne and Frank Carideo last fall. Later, when Knute became my assistant, that friendship grew into something more. I intended to retire within a few years and therefore began to groom him to take my place. This threw us more and more together, as I took him into my confidence always, that he might learn whatever I could teach him about the department." 
Athletic Director Harper does not intend to inaugurate a new system, but rather will try to carry on as nearly as possible in the manner Rockne would have done. He makes' no predictions, other than to promise the usual hard-fighting team, fighting all the harder for "Rock." "Because of two undefeated teams," he warns, "the students must not think that to be good a team must go through its 

season without losing a game. As a matter of fact, for good healthy rela­tions with rival universities we can­not always win. I don't intend to imply that we will lose purposely— anything but that. However, the stu­dents must not expect an indefinite number of undefeated teams, but rather, must expect losses, and learn to be good losers." 
This rather ominous bit of advice was somewhat mitigated as Mr. Harper concluded: "It seems mighty fine to be back. I was especially gratified by the cordial welcome af­forded me, and by the wonderful co­operation which I received from everyone. I have every confidence in Mr. Anderson, senior coach, and in Mr. Chevigny, junior coach, and I feel sure that they will handle their departments in an eminently satis­factory manner." 
The position of director of athlet­ics, formerly held-by Kiute Kockne in addition to his position as head coach, will be separated from the football job from now on. 

Anderson and Chevigny '^Carry O n 
With the spirit of Knute K. Rockne forever the head coach at Notre Dame, Heartley Anderson was named senior coach and Jack Chevigny jun­ior coach of football for the 1931 sea-
Knowing that Rockne would desire that the spring sessions be continued, the University authorities decided to follow the plans that he had laid out and, in order to do so, entrusted them to the hands of "Rock's" right-hand men of the past year. 
"There will never be a head coach but Rockne at Notre Dame," said Father O'Donnell. " 'Hunk' Anderson will be in charge, but he will be the senior coach, and Jack Chevigny the junior coach. Rockne cannot be dis­placed as head coach." And so the problem which had attracted the attention of the entire nation was solved for at least a year. It is not thought that the present arrangement \vill be permanent for Anderson has expressed himself as unwilling to accept the position which the tragic death of the beloved leader left open. Following the conclusion of the next season, a permanent successor to the "Master Mind" will probably be se­lected. 
In concluding his few words to the bereaved grid squad. Father O'Don­nell asked them to carry on. "The eyes of the football world are on Notre Dame. It wants to know what Notre Dame will do without Rockne. You will answer. So carry on." And his words have become the watchword of the campus and of the squad. Carry on! For the "Old Man," Carry on! Posters throughout the gym, dressing rooms, and locker rooms encourage the men to carry on! 
"Hunk" Anderson came to Notre Dame in 1918, from Hancock, Michi­gan, and became a member of the varsity team in his second year at school. Before he was graduated in the spring of 1922, he had earned the title of one of the best linemen ever to appear in a Blue and Gold uniform. "Hunk" returned to his Alma Mater in the role of coach and, with the ex­ception of t^vo years spent as head coach at St._ Louis university, he has been at Notre Dame ever since that time. The great defensive play of the Fighting Irish line has been due in no small measure to the work of Anderson. Following the loss of Moynihan, Cannon, Law, and Twomey in 1929, it was believed that Notre Dame would be unable to replace these great stars. Instead, the 1930 line was thought by many to be superior to their predecessors. From a squad of comparatively green shock-troop and sophomore material Anderson had developed a forward wall that consistently refused to be outplayed or outfought. 
Chevigny, a .more recent product of the "Rock of Notre Dame," en­tered the University in September, 1925. He, too, was a member of the varsity squad for three years. Jack played right halfback, the position which, on the Notre Dame team, re­quires a perfect blocker. And so "Chev" paved the way for the long runs of Christy Flanagan and John­ny Niemiec but also found time to do a little running and driving of his own. His defensive play was the feature of nearly every game in which he played. When he was grad­uated in 1929, Rockne signed Jack to assist in drilling the backfield. That he has done his task well is attested by the nation-wide attention which the blocking and running of the Blue and Gold backfields of the past two seasons have demanded. 
The Month In SPORTS 
•It remains to be seen whether the Notre Dame football team which, in the words of the Kev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, "the whole world is watch­ing" will carry on for Knute Rockne, but the spring sports teams have been winning their contests in character­istic Notre Dame fashion for their departed champion. 
The baseball team has taken six games out of eight, which if you will ask Rogers Homsby, is not at all a bad record. After taking their two open­ing contests from local semi-pro teams by decisive scores, the pastim­ers came from behind to defeat Wis­consin, 1930 Big Ten champions, S to 7, in a slugfest on Cartier field. 
They took Hillsdale and Iowa into camp in the next two home games by scores of 6 to 1 and 10 to 4. Charlie Palt's wildness cost him victory against Northwestern at Evanston when he walked three men and a double scored three Wildcat runs for a 7 to 5 defeat, the first of the sea­son. Palt, stocky junior southpaw, won from Wisconsin and Hillsdale and he recently let Navy down with four hits, one of them a scratch in­field bounder, for his third victory of the season. The Middies fell by a 5 to 2 count. 
The only other team to defeat Notre Dame was Hosei of Japan, champions of the Tokyo Intercollegi­ate league, who, playing perfect ball behind the fast curves of S. Suzuki, took a 4 to 1 decision in one of the most colorful games of the season. The Navy and Hosei games came as a part of "Baseball Week" at Notre Dame in which the Irish were sched­uled to play Hosei twice, Purdue, and Navy. One Hosei game and the Pur­due contest were rained out. 
The club has return games to play with Wisconsin, Northwestern, and Iowa and will meet Michigan State in a home and home series and Pur­due at Lafayette, Ind. The absence of a southern trip in the spring has had little effect on the team in the matter of winning ball games, but the new ball has hmt team hitting as a whole. The boys agree with Ty Cobb that ground balls don't go as far and that fly balls don't carry as-well as in former years. 
Meanwhile the pitchers have been having a banner year. Palt has giv-en up only 14 safe blows in 25 innings he has been on the mound while John Lisicld, another portsider, has kept his record clean with a victory over Iowa and is now in the middle of his third season as a varsity man with his first defeat still ahead of him. 
Led by Larry MoUer, last year's captain, medalist and finalist in the national intercollegiate tournament, and president of the Intercollegiate golf association, the Notre Dame linksmen have continued their two-year winning streak and are now looking at the prospects of winning the national team championship in the tourney at Olympia Fields, Chi­cago, June 22 to 27. 

In six matches to date they have scored 96% points to their opponents' 17%. ^loner's average is close to 75 but his teammates, Capt. Fran Beaupre and his brother, Euss Beau­pre, have played the most sensational golf of the year. At Valparaiso, Euss scored a snappy 68 which low­ered the course record by three strokes. Fran played the difficult Biltmore course in Chicago in 69 against Loyola, blowing two strokes on the last hole, but setting a new course mark. Last summer a bonus of one hundred dollars was offered competitors in a fast professional tournament there for breaking 70 and none collected. 
Last year's team, the first in Notre Dame history, won all of its matches and took fourth in team scoring at Pittsburgh in the nationals. The same sextette is back this year, other members being Art Bradley, team champion; Bill Eedmond, Indiana State champion, and Louis O'Shea. Alternates include Billy Burke, son of William J. Burke, donor, of the new Notre Dame course. 
The team will defend its state title at Terre Haute May 22. 
The track squad, although hamper­ed by lack of practice, took 12 first places in 14 events at Annapolis to hand Navy its first defeat of the sea­son by a decisive 78 5/6 to 471/6 margin. Bill McCormack ran the century in 9.6 seconds, to set a new mark for the Navy field and to lead the team's performances. His time is one-tenth of a second over the world's record and he has another year of competition. Capt. John O'Brien, who will go to Navy next fall as assistant football coach to Edgar "Eip" Miller, '25, of the Four Horsemen, ran the 120-yard high hurdles in 15.1, four full seconds lower than the old academy mark. 
Alex Wilson, British Empire cham­pion quarter miler, ran the half in 
1:56.3 to lower the Navy mark by a second, Bob Darling turned in his best high jump mark of the season, six feet, two and one-eighth inches, to set another record, and Ralph Johnston added a quarter of an inch to the pole vault record with a leap of 13 feet. 
The slip of a javelin thrower's foot cost Notre Dame a victory against Wisconsin in the opening and only other dual meet of the season. Bran-fort got 177 feet eight inches on his 
-ACROSS -THE 

AJiwi- 5f"Ai r/v«t — ratt; 
last throw but fouled when he lost his balance and stepped over the line. His long throw would have given Notre Dame first place in this event and a victory, but he had to Jie con­tent with a second and Wisconsin won, 64 to 62. Notre Dame hurdlers were not up to form yet after their Easter layoff or the meet might have gone to the Irish. 
Nordy Hoffman, shock troop tackle in football, has been doing some first rate discus throwing in dual meets and in the Drake and Ohio Relays. He took third at Drake with a shot of 137.36 feet and he took third at Columbus. Against Navy he won the event with a throw of 141 feet 6% inches. 
Johnson tied for second in the pole vault at Drake and took third at the Ohio games, both times with leaps of 13 feet even. He has done 13 feet four inches indoors and should do that outside when he rounds into form. 
Notre Dame relay teams also fared well in the Drake and Ohio games the mile team finishing mere inches behind Michigan's 3:18.1 quartette at Des Moines, and the half-mile team 
 LINE — 
taking second to Michigan at Colum­bus. The distance medley crew placed fourth at the Ohio relays. 
The tennis team, hampered by bad weather and poor playing conditions got away to a poor start, losing to both Indiana State and Western State. They defeated Manchester, 6 to 1, however, and had high hopes, as the ALUMNUS went to press, of tak­ing one or both of the Rockne memo­rial cups in the Central Intercollegi­ate conference meet at the Chicago Town and Tennis club May 14, 15, and 16. The meet was started by Rockne and is sponsored by Notre Dame each year. The Eocfaie cups are awarded to the singles and doubles winners. 
In the football field, spring practice was concluded with a 19 to 0 defeat for the stars of the past season at the hands of the reserves and fresh­men coming up. Such stars as Frank Carideo, Marty Brill, Al Howard and Clarence Kaplan, who will be gradu­ated in June, played their last game for the varsity. The rookies uncov­ered some dazzling talent, especially in the line, which will make the reg­ulars hump for their berths next fall. 

f::»i 
May,  19S1  TH E  NOTR E  DAM E  ALUMNU S  335  
QMII  ••iiiiittiiiiiiii illllltlllt  •••IMIIII lllllllllllllllllllMIIMIimitMIIMIIIIltlMIIMIIItltllMl lllltHlinttttMnMtB  
BOOK  REVIEWS  

Qn • IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM 
EDITS EOCKNE'S BOOK 

The Eev. John Cavanaugh, '90, be­loved former president of Notre Dame, under whose presidency Knute Eockne Eockne was student, teacher, assistant 
coach and fin­ally head coach, will edit for 
0^:^^i 
publication the book that was nearing com­pletion by Eockne before his tragic death. About 40,000 words had been com­pleted. The book will be completed b y Father Cava­naugh at the request of Mrs. Eockne. 
Alumni, es­


REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH 
pecially, ar e 

asked to send to Father Cavanaugh all those facts and stories ^vith which the life of Eockne from his early student days till his death was filled. 
Eockne was under contract to Bobbs-Merrill, Indianapolis publish­ers, for the book. It was to be pri­marily a book on the Notre Dame system, with Eock's own personality subordinated. It is Father Cav­anaugh's intention to fill out the work with a more proportionate apprecia­tion of the g^reat part that Eockne played in the evolving of this success. 
Many of Eockne's teammates and the monogram men who studied and played under his guidance are already working with Father Cavanaugh. A number of Eock's writings, hitherto unpublished, will be included in the book. The book will be released as soon as possible, but the publishers are not yet in a position to announce a date. 
The illustrations for the book will be selected by Mrs. Eockne, it was announced, and many of them have never been published. 
Putnam's is releasing shortly a biography of Eockne by Delos Love­lace, assistant editor of the New York Sim, it has been announced. The title will be "Eockne of Notre Dame." 
"THE INTIMATE STOEY OF EOCKNE" On the inside front cover page ap­peal's a notice of a book in which, it is safe to say, no alumnus of Notre Dame -nnll fail to take a deep and sympathetic interest. Most of us will treasure it through years to come, for into the making of "Eockne," by War­ren Brown, (Eeilly & Lee) has gone the harvest of long friendship, close contact in times of stress, and rare understanding. There are two heroes in the book, Notre Dame and Eockne—and the or­
iiiiti iiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiHiiMiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiimiiuiiiiiuHiiiiuiiiiiiniiiMuiiiimiiiniiimmniiuii ItMwO 
der is as Eockne would have wished it. The following brief quotation illas­trates this point and is typical of the fine insight into his subject that War­ren Brown has evidenced thoughout: 
"In most of his affairs it was not what Eockne did, but what was ac­complished for Notre Dame that mat­tered to him. It was reported, from time to time, that Eockne was going to leave Notre Dame to coach else­where. I believe he would have re­mained at Notre Dame were he paid no salary at all, and would have kept on coaching 'for the fun of it.' In the last analysis the 'fun of it' was what took Eockne to the heights." 
In the element of action the book is equal to half a dozen fast moving novels. The opening chapters are de­voted to a provocative analysis of the formation and activities of the Notre Dame teams that went through their seasons undefeated. In his descrip­tion of individual games Mr. Brown treats play after play in a fashion that imparts to the reader all the ex­citement of a spectator. He reveals, also, a technical knowledge of football that enables him to make the work­ings of the intricate Eockne system clear and understandable. 
The chapters that show Eockne away from the football field are lively and rich with humor. A profusion of anecdotes exemplify his sharp wit, his ready sympathy and the strong aifec­tion he felt for the players who car­ried Notre Dame football to national fame. The players themselves are in­timately discussed and their achieve­ments recorded. The "Four Horse­men," Dorais, Gipp, Elder, Carideo, Schwartz and many others repeat their splendid struggles for the reader. 
The appendix, with its carefully compiled and collated statistics con­cerning Notre Dame athletic relation­ships with other colleges, Eockne's achievements as athletic director and the records of all his players, makes the book of permanent reference value. 
In his introduction. President O'Donnell expresses beautifully the sentiment of the entire student body and alumni. 
"THE KING'S STEWAED 
The possibility of success for a practical Catholic in the business world is the theme of this little vol­ume, by a member of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, writing under the pen name of George N. Lyons. 
In "the true story of George Schu­mann" is embodied the practice of a sublime faith and unlimited charity in the face of obstacles commonly ad­vanced to prove the incompatibility of Catholicity and commerce. 
The old injunction, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His justice, and all else shall be added unto you," finds modem adaptaiton in the attrac­tive pages. The charities of this sym­bolic business man seem to bear hi^ ­er-than-bank interest, and his per­sonal virtues in no way handicap his business sagacity and success. 
Alumni of a Catholic college, unless they are in religious life, can un­doubtedly derive much benefit from this treatise on a topic that plays such a prominent part in alumni life. 
The little volume sells for $1.10, through the Notre Dame bookstore. It was published for Dujarie Institute. 
STUHLDEEHER WRITES 
Macrae-Smith, Philadelphia, have announced a biography of Knute Rockne, by Harry Stnhldreher, '25, former quarterback, one of the Four Horsemen, to be published during the coming summer. 
"SPAIN AND HER DAUGHTERS" 
THOMAS O'HAGAN 
liJi.., Ph.D.. LittD., LU). 
This new volume by Dr. O'Hagan, the eminent Canadian scholar and critic, will make a special appeal to every student of Spanish civilization, life, art and literature. It is the fruit of extensive travel and research in both Spain and the South American countries. 
In his preface the author writes: , "Today nearly a hundred million think and write and pray in the Spanish tongue. This gives Spanish a third place among world languages; being only surpassed in numbers by Slavic and English. But its importance to us is something more than world in­tercourse. A study of Spanish history and literature reveals to us the glor­ious achievements of heroes, explorers, artists, mystics and dreamers." 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Maij, 1931 
B" 
•ttiitiiit«iitiiaiilittiiiiiii)ttlit>iitiiitiiitiiii 
"B 






Around About the Campus * ^y John A. Kiener, 32 
Q 
"HO HUM." 
Just as Ben Bemie would say, "hope you like it," the enterprising and helpful Morrisseyites recently aided their next-door neighbors by tossing a none-too-willing Howard "swimmer" in St. Mary's lake last week. Seems that the "swimmer" was the cause of a "general campus" in Father Connerton's lovely domicile . . . said "swimmer" promptly proceeded to participate in unlocked for swim in the lake at the insistence of his elders. 
FEED BAG 
Campus canape connoiseurs looked forward very eager­ly to Universal Notre Dame night . . . last year they missed out because of the 21st coming in Easter vacation. This year, however. Dean of Meals Robert Borland served a most pretentious repast on the eventful night. 
* * * GOOD ATHLETES 
"Blue and Gold Eevue" and not the "Monogram Ab­surdities" was the annual. re\'ie\v of those monogram bearers who are more at home in football togs or a track unie. Comedy skits, minstrels, and parodies, intermingled with dramatic tributes to Knute Eockne and other bygone football heroes, featured the presentation. Father John O'Hara helped Austie Boyle arrange the clever skits, with Professor Frank Kelly active director. 
BADIN LAKE 
Alas and alack, lovers of rowboating on the historic Badin lake under the bright moonlight wiU find the section between Walsh and Badin no longer the dreaded swamp of the nightlifers. Dirt from the new halls has been brought in and all those nice little holes have been filled up and planted with grass seed. The Badinites, appar­ently turned "aggie" over night, planted every imaginable vegetable seed procurable in their "front lawn." But of course there's nuthin' finer than fresh vegetables and greens for dinner; providing the human rake doesn't de­cide differently and gently remove the roots. 
EXTRA 
No one ever thought that there would be so great a general demand for a Scholastic that the distributors would be mobbed. However, 3,000 "extras" went like wild­fire the afternoon of Knute Eockne's death. Seven hardies put out the extra in the astonishing time of four hours, cutting, folding and distributing them too. A great feat but a sad, very sad occasion on which to display merit. 
* * * 

HOT STUFF 
Plenty of teeth were to be found in the Notre Dame stadium one Sunday a while back . . . for the final spring football game was held the day before. "Cap" Edwards had the enviable job of keeping the boys from murdering each other and seeing that they weren't "too much" off­side. Reserves and the up-and-coming Frosh beat the Varsity and 'lame ducks," 19 to 0, in a hotly-contested battle—both sun and "spring fever" made it so. 
Hint tllllllllilllltll • IlllllilllilllllXlli 

JAPANESE DIAMOND STARS 
Weird cries of doubtful meaning pierced the air this week when the Hosei band of Japanese baseball ax-tists pounded out a win over George Keogan's group of potent pellet pounders. Small and fast like the Meiji team which played here in 1929, the Hosei outfit put up a mighty interesting brand of ball. They are making a nation-wide tour of the United States at the present time. 
NOT SUPERSTITIOUS 
After thirteen years away from active association ^vith the University, Jesse Harper returns to take over the reins left vacant by the death of Knute Rockne. Jesse tried to slip in quietly . . . successful until he reached the campus, and then he was besieged by a half-dozen cameramen and two news reel outfits. "Glad to be back, everything looks fine," and then he shook hands with "Hunk" and Jack and a few of the boys. But didn't you see and hear it on the screen? 
WORTHY CAUSE 
For two weeks. Rock's boys have been laboring away under the bright warm sun with the Universal cameras grinding away. Enough shots for a series of four two-reel shorts and enough "background" for a full-length movie, featuring Marty Brill (so we're misinformed) have been taken. Incidentally tliese were the indirect cause of that last fatal trip which Eockne was taking when the accident happened. All proceeds, and the players are aiding in this too, go to Mrs. Rockne. 
TRADITIONS M0^^; 
To prove that traditions move. Father O'Hara plans to move from Sorin hall to Dillon hall, the one nearest to the dining hall, when it is completed.' Sorin hall chapel, the scene of late communions for forty-two years, must give way before the onward march of progress. 
CIRCUS BALLYHOO 
Gone are the days of ballyhoo, we hear. But not gone are the days of dance promotions. Lawyers' Ball, Senior Ball, and Monogram "Gold and Blue Eevue" were the cause of nightly serenades as students, and others (mostly others), marched into the dining hall. Cries of "Buy that ticket tonight, Tony" were heard midst the soothing strains of "The Waltz You Saved For Me." Loud speaker and placard near the Engineering building furnish the ballyhoo. 
MITT-SLINGERS 
The annual "Mitt-slingers' Frolic" was held Tuesday, May 12, most society sections would say, but around and about the campus it was told that the S. A. C. put on a very successful slugging show with the leading maulers taking part. 
* * * 

REPUBLICAN PROSPERITY 
IS THIS THE PLACE? 
If you don't recognize the campus as belonging to N. D. now, what are you going to expect in five years^ New Law building not six months'completed, a new Commerce building underway, two new residence halls, and a new En^neering hall ready for the steam shovel in a few days are nearly enough to change the layout into another nine-hole golf course. 
This so-called "Republican prosperity" has hit the campus at last. Politics are becoming so keen on the grounds tiat the parties go so far as to have blotters of varied hues and descriptions printed and have penny folders of matches distributed. "The vote-getters are do­ing everything but painting signs on the Dome in announc­ing the admirable qualities of their candidates," the weary Week in the Scholastic has to report. It's good practical outside work after a course in Politics, nevertheless. 
Q' •••itillilltlliniitiiiiii 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
Q.. llllitllllliiiiiiitiilllllllllliiiiiiiiiilllllllllUlitllltllDtllDllllllllliUIIIIMIIIIItttlii 


Six New Clubs Join Ranks on U. N. D. Night 
Arizona, Grand Rapids, Eastern Pennsylvania, Peoria, Tiffin, and Wheeling Organize; 
AKRON 
Thf. Akron Club's observance of Notre Dame Night was reported by Glenn Smith, the newly elected Secre­tary. Glenn says: 
"The observance of Notre Dame Night was a one hundred per cent success, both from the standpoint of attendance and guests. Jack Chevig­ny, as our guest, brought back to our assembled alumni and old students, 40 strong, the campus spirit that we all know so well. Father Moriarity came up from Wooster, and Johnny Butler and Jack Keidy from Cleveland, com­pleted our guest roster. 
"The following officers for 1931-32 were nominated and elected at our meeting: Dr. Pat C. Doran, '23, pres­ident; Art Keeney, '19, vice-president; Glenn Smith, '27, secretaiy. Charles McGuckin, '28, treasurer. 
"We're drawing up plans for a luncheon club for downtown Notre Dame men; plan an excursion to Wooster during the summer, and other activities that will unite us into a closer unit." 
~ We are glad to see this Club keep­ing up the old fight and wish them success during the coming year. 
The Alumni Office received a copy of a very fine resolution adopted by the Club on the death of Mr. Rockne. A duplicate copy was forwarded to Mrs. Rockne. 
ALBANY 
In memory of Knute Rockne, the Notre Dame Club of the Capital Dis­trict will offer a silver trophy for the outstanding football team among Catholic preparatory schools of the Capital District. The trophy will be known as the "Notre Dame Club Trophy in Memory of Knute K. Rockne." 
This action was taken at the meet­ing of the club Monday night, April 20, at the Van Curler Hotel, Schnec­tady, where the annual dinner took place. John W. Forbing, '00, Albany, was elected president; J. J. Meehan, '24, Schnectady, vice-president: Ward 
H. Leahy, '26, Albany, secretary-treasurer, and Frank Ott, Joseph Horan and Paul Duquette, members of the board of governors. 
Thirty members were present from Albany, Schnectady, Troy, Ballston Spa and Saraotga Springs. The meeting was dedicated to the memory of Coach Rockne. The principal 


Tributes to Rockne Predominate. 
speaker was John Byrne, Notre Dame '23, who told of the activities of Notre Dame clubs in Minneapolis, St. Paul, Chicago, Cleveland and Buffalo. 
ARIZONA According to a letter from James 
D. Barry, the Club was formed on April 20, at a meeting of Notre Dame men held at the home of James D. Barry, '97, who was elected president, and Steve Rebeil, '25, who was elected secretary. Present at the meeting were the following alumni and old students: V. P. Hengesbach, R. F. Nadolny, John B. Wright, Edmund A. Collins, R. D. French, L. D. White, James D. Barry. 
The following prominent residents of Tucson were elected honorary members of the club, all of them being close friends and admirers of the late Knute Rockne: J. A. Mul­cahy, Stephen T. Ochoa, Ferd Hermes and Julius Dooley Bookman. 
The members of the club, together 
with their families, will hold a picnic, 
Sunday, May 10. 
Tucson people in general mourned the death of Mr. Rockne and a sol­emn requiem Mass was celebrated in St. Augustine's Cathedral on Monday, April 13, 1931. It was largely at­tended. The sermon was preached by His Excellency, the Rt. Rev. Daniel 
J. Gercke, Bishop of Tucson. 
BOSTON 
The Notre Dame Club of Boston joined with all the other clubs throughout the country on Univei-sal Notre Dame Night in paying tribute to the memory of the late Knute Rockne at a dinner held April 20, in the ballroom of the Kenmore Hotel, attended by more than 100 guests. Edward Collins, '02, presided. 
Following the banquet, Bill Cun­
ningham, Boston journalist and guest 
speaker of the evening, delivered a 
tribute to Rockne's memory. Thomas 
Quinn, guest soloist, performed, and 
there was music by Louis Haffer­
mihl's orchestra. Dancing continued 
after midnight. 
Maurice Cohen headed the commit­
tee on arrangements. He was as­
sisted by Joseph A. Gartland, Jr., 
Albert J. Birmingham, Joseph De.s­
mond, and the officers of the Club, 
Charles F. Blunt and Dr. James J. 
Lynch. 
The menu was an especially at­tractive booklet with the new Notre Dame seal on the outside cover and a picture of Knute Rockne as a frontispiece. The entire program was, according to the booklet "affec­tionately dedicated to the memory of our Beloved Rockne." 
About thirty-five members attended a Solemn High Mass of Requiem at St. James Church, April 9, for "Rock." Another group of friends to­gether ivith Notre Dame men attended a Mass at St. Mary's Chapel, Boston College, on April 13. The Club re­ceived Communion in a body at St. James on Sunday, April 19, another tribute to Rockne. 
As soon as the students and the June graduate return the Club will conduct the annual election of officers at a stag dinner and band togethcr even more strongly. 
BRIDGEPORT 
The following was received from John M. Murphy, '27. 
"You're hearing from another sec­tor. The following Bridgeport Notre Dame men took cognizance of the suggestion in the ALUMNUS and re­ceived Holy Communion for "Rock," Sunday, April 19: Oscar Lavery, '25; Jim Murphy, '22; But Stapleton, '24; Mello Bums, '24; John and Peter Beime, '28; Bus Redgate, '29; Jobo Corcoran, '25, and myself. 
"Pews were reserved, for us at the Church of the Sacred Heart. Father Killian said Mass and Father John Moore, the pastor, in his sermon, paid tribute to "Rock." Yours truly sang Poznanski's "Ave Verum" and the-organist played the "Victory March" for the recessional. 
BUFFALO 
Gordon Bennett, President of the Buffalo Club wrote: "At a time like this we all know how the other fel­low feels, so it is useless to try and tell you how deeply Rock's death has affected us here in Buffalo." Biffy Lee represented the Club at the funeral. 
Paul Hoeffler sent in a long letter concerning the recent activities of the Club. The letter in part, follows: 
"On Wednesday, April 8, the Club had a High Mass sung in honor of "Rock." About one hundred of the boys went to communion. The Cathe­dral was well filled with the admirers of our great friend and it was a fit­ting tribute to see those men and women who know of 'Eock' only through the radio, newspapers, etc., wipe away their tears. 

"Universal Notre Dame Night was dedicated in his honor. A dinner was held at the Statler Hotel where at least 300 attended. The University of Buffalo had set aside that night in honor of their football and basketball teams, but had decided to pay their respects to the memory of Eock also, and as Biff Lee (football director of that University and a member of the Notre Dame Club) was to be toast­master, we combined our party with theirs. During the course of the even­ing we all sang the 'Victory March' for 'Eock.' 
"I called Francis Euehl the other night to let him know about Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, and what do you think he said? "I won't be there!" We tried to persuade him, and at last he admitted that he was about to be married and that his bride would not put off the honey­moon, Notre Dame party or no Notre Dame party! 
"The rest of the boys are polishing up their golf clubs for the coming season and we haven't seen them lately." 
CHICAGO 
The Editor wishes to pay special tribute to the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. Last year. President Frank Fitzsimmons, at the request of the Editor, invited the National Catholic Alumni Federation, a national organ­ization to which the Alumni Associa­tion belongs and was indebted, to hold the 1931 convention in Chicago, the Club acting as hosts in place of the more logical but difficult arrange­ment of the Association itself. Loy­ola, De Paul, Marquette and St. Via­tor's co-operated in the project. Nu­merically in keeping with the lack of Catholic alumni development in the Middle West, the Convention was 
nevertheless successful, and in fact achieved its very purpose of stimulat­ing alumni organization in this area. The Chicago Club displayed more or­ganization and more power than the complete organizations of the other institutions, -with all respect to them in their present stage of development, and the Editor wishes to express to President Brennan and the members of the Club who co-operated in the details of the convention, especially Eddie Gould, banquet chairman, Dick Halpin, convention treasurer, and Paul Martin, convention publicity chairman, the most sincere apprecia­tion on behalf of the -Mumni Associa­tion, whose work they were actually doing. 

Universal Notre Dame Night was observed by the Chicago Club with a banquet at the Drake Hotel. Sev­eral hundred members of the Club were present. 
During the course of the evening announcement of a $300,000 gift to the University was made by Rev. Charles 
L. O'Donnell, C. S'. C, President. The donor is John F. Gushing, president of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock company of Chicago. 
Speaking at the banquet, Mr. Gush­ing related experiences of his youth and recalled how, when financially embarrassed in his final year at school, he was assisted by the then president. Father Morrissey. Father O'Donnell responded in an address, which was broadcast over WGN. 
Other speakers were the Rt. Eev. Bernard J. Sheil, auxiliary bishop of the Catholic archdiocese of Chicago; Edward N. Hurley; • D. F. Kelly, Ernest E. Graham, Charles R. Fa­quette, honorary president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, James 
H. Brennan, president of the Club; Warren Brown, and Judge Kickam Scanlan. Byron V. Kanaley was toastmaster. 
Plans for the May dance got under way early with the appointment of Eay McClory, '27 as chairman of the committee arranging for this affair. The date is May 16 and the place the Gold Eoom of the Congress Hotel. Working with Eay are: Joe Henne­berrj', '23; Earl C. Hurley, '24; Fran­cis J. McFadden, '25; John J. Swee­ney, '26; Bill Kearney, '28, and George Brautigan, '29. 
In previous years the date has always been closer to the end of May, but it has been moved up this year in order not to interfere vrith the postponed dance of the Chicago Club of Notre Dame, which was cancelled because of the death of Coach Rockne. This dance is now slated for the Drake Hotel on the night of June 8. 
CINCINNATI 
The following telegram was re­ceived from W. D. Morrissey, secre­tai-y of the Cincinnati Club: "Cincin­nati Notre Dame Club assembled at Ohio River Yacht club forty strong. Congratulations on this Universal Notre Dame Night to Alma Mater. Father O'Donnell's program coming in fine." 
The Secretary writes: "I am very happy to report that about thirty-two of the boys went to Mass and Com­munion the Sunday preceding Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. 
"On Monday, April 20, forty mem­bers assembled for a little stag party at the Ohio Eiver Yacht club. Every­one pronounced this affair one of tlie finest that the Club had ever given. Interspersed in the conversation the name of our beloved Coach, Knute Rockne, was mentioned time after time. 
"After an evening of real com­radeship and pleasure, during which we listened to the radio broadcast of Father O'Donnell, we gave a silent toast for Rockne just before parting. 
CLEVELAND 
The Dance which was to have been held on Easter Monday was post­poned because of the death of Coach Rockne, according to reports from Cleveland. 
The annual election of officers of the Club was scheduled to take place on Universal Notre Dame Night and the gathering at that time was to be for members only. We have, to date, received no report on the proceedings. 
DAYTON 
The Dayton Club, at last reports, was making extensive preparations to "kill the fatted calf" on Universal Notre Dame night in a bigger and better way than ever before. This year each club member was to have the privilege of bringing a guest. W. 
E. Shea, Gene Mayl and W. D. Kava­naugh were appointed by the presi­dent, Joseph Murphy, as a committee to handle the arrangements for the meeting on the 20th. Mr. George Huffman, a prominent Dayton realtor, donated the use of his beautiful lodge in southern Dayton as the location of the meeting, 
DETROIT A memorial service on Thursday, April 9 for Knute Rockne was ar­ranged by the Jesuit Fathers at Gesu Parish at the request of students and members of the faculty of the Uni­versity of Detroit. 
About fifty members of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit attended this service and received Holy Communion in a body. 
The Club observed Universal Notre Dame Night with a stag banquet at the Prince Edward Hotel, Windsor, Ontario. Over a hundred paid admis­sions were collected, and an excellent dinner was polished off. 
Don O'Keefe, President, got the proceedings under way by calling the crowd to order and introduced the toastmaster, Eay Kelly. Father G. 
L. Holderith, C.S.C. brought a touch of the campus to the boys by his friendly mingling with the crowd and by his short and witty speech. Judge Ernest P. LaJoie had a little time and he delivered a fine address. 
The following men gave short ex­temporaneous talks which were keen­ly enjoyed by all of us. Ed Sawkins, Dr. Jacob Rosenthal, F. Henry Wur­zer, Alfred C. Ryan, first Secretary of the National -Association and Eay Kelly. 
Paul Dooley." 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

"Due to Rockne's death we did not hold an extensive exercise on Notre Dame Night, but several got together nevertheless to listen in on the radio. 
"Nothing else of great moment ex­cept that we shall be on hand in Bal­timore to help the boys in the Fall and have no doubt that Jesse Harper will have them in excellent trim." 
A requiem Mass for Knute Rockne was said April 13 in the Immaculate Conception Church at 12:15 P. M. Members of the Notre Dame Club at­tended in a body. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 

Alumni and friends of Notre Dame observed Universal Notre Dame Night in Bethlehem on April 20. It was the first time that the Night was ob­ser\-ed by a group of men from East-em Pennsylvania outside Philadel­phia. Fifteen persons were present. It was decided to make this an an­nual affair and while no permanent officers were elected at this meeting Leo M . Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem and Charles B. McDermott, '27, Allen­town, were elected temporary chair­man and secretary respectively of the group. They were authorized to call the next meeting when they saw fit. 
Notre Dame songs were sung and Notre Dame music played and broad­casted from station WCBA, Allen­town. 
We are happy to welcome this new Notre Dame Club to the fold and wish them success. 
FORT WAYNE 

The Fort Waj-ne Club obser\-ed Universal Notre Dame Night with a meeting at the Keenan Hotel, at­tended by approximately thirty mem­bers. Edward T. Gilmartin, presi­dent of the Club, opened the session and delivered a brief address. Mr. Gilmartin was in attendance at the meeting which Rockne was to have attended in California and which, fol­lowing his death, was turned into a memorial program. Mr. Gilmartin described the tribute paid "Rock" by Will Rogers and Joseph Scott. -A.t the close of Mr. Gilmartin's address, respect was shown the memory of Rockne by all club members standing in silence for one minute. There were several other informal talks by Club members after which a social pro­gram was presented. Judge John W. Eggeman presented the matter of Living Endowment Fund to those on hand and one hundred percent sub­scription from those present followed. 
The committee in charge of Notre Dame Night was headed by the al­ways efficient F. Leslie Logan, who supervises details like another Tex Rickard. 
GRAND RAPIDS 
"The meeting on the night of April 20th turned out to be a huge success. It was even better than we had really anticipated. Twenty-nine loyal Notre Dame men of the City of Grand Rapids gathered together on that night and carried out, as the first order of business, the formation of the Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids. The following Board of Gov­ernors and Officers were elected: 
President — George! E. Ludwig; Vice-President—Gerald B. Roach; Secretary - Treasurer Raymond J. Bonini; Governors—Ralph D. Doran; Ralph E. DeVries and Alfred C. Nachtcgall. 
The Board of Governors elected Rev. J. H. O'Donnell, C.S.C, as Hon­orary President of the Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids. 
After the business matters of the club were taken care of. Father Murch gave a talk on "Rockne—^The Ideal Notre Dame Man." We were all very well pleased with his talk, and I am sure his words will be an inspira­tion for all of us in our efforts to carry out the ideals set forth by our beloved coach. We certainly want to thank you for your efforts in helping us to secure Father Murch for this meeting. 
The only disappointment of the evening was the fact that the atmos­pheric conditions were such, due to the inclement weather, that we were unable to hear the talk of our es­teemed President of the University, the Rev. Charles O'Donnell, C.S.C, from Radio Station WGN in Chicago. However, to offset this disappoint­ment. Father Murch announced at the meeting the §300,000 donation of Mr. Gushing, to be used for the erec­tion of a new Engineering Building on the Notre Dame campus. We were all very much pleased over this good news. 
Raymond J. Bonini." 
HIAWATHALAND Dear Jim: We had another splendid meeting of the Hiawathaland Club at Esca­naba last night. .A.tty. John J. O'Hara of Menominee, who was the speaker, gave a wonderfully fine talk on "The Layman's Responsibility." The pro­gram was a Rockne memorial pro­gram. Twenty attended. The fol­lowing officers were elected: 
Honorary President—T. J. Dundon, Ishpeming; President — Henry J. Lauerman, Menominee; Vice-Presi­dent—Gerald Cleary, Escanaba; Sec­retary—Meredith Doyle, Menominee; Treasurer—^E. J. Dundon, Iron Moun­tain; Trustee — John K. Stack, Jr., Escanaba. 
Masses are being said by the mem­bers of the Hiawathaland Club in their parish churches throughout this section. At a Mass offered at St. Anne's Church in Escanaba on Mon­day, April 6, the Escanaba-Notre Dame men received Holy Comnnnion in a body. A High Mass was offered at St. Joseph's on Tuesday, April 7, and at St.' Patrick's on Wednesday, April 8. In addition, fourteen hun­dred parochial school youngsters of­fered the following: 
1421 Holy Communions; 1021 Mass­es; 1021 Litanies; 1021 Stations of the Cross; 1021 Paters; 1021 Aves; 12100 Ejaculations. 
Yours sincerely, 
John A. Lemmer. 
HOUSTON 
The Notre Dame Club of Houston forwarded to this Office a copy of a splendid letter as a tribute to Knute Rockne and which was sent to Mrs. Rockne and to Revl Charles L. O'Don­nell. 
The Club had a Mass said for Knute Rockne on April 9th by the Rt. Rev. Msgr. George T. Walsh in the Annunciation Church of Houston. Members of the Club attended in a body. 
The Club also arranged for a pub­lic showing of Notre Dame films for April 4th, 5th and 6th. 
JOLIET 
The Joliet Club and friends of the University visited the grave of Ivnute Rockne on May 3, and paid fitting tribute to the great leader. 
More than 200 persons made the trip by automobile to Notre Dame and from the campus journeyed to the cemetery where President Joseph Adler placed a wreath on the grave of the Coach. Short memorial serv­ices were held at the cemetery be­fore starting the trip back to Joliet. 
Members of the committee in charge of arrangements for the trip were: Edward King, Clarence Wil­helrai and Francis Dunn. 
Universal Notre Dame Night is history now, but we in Joliet will re­member it as one of our most suc­cessful events. 
Over twenty former Notre Dame men were present at a dinner given at the Woodruff Hotel. -After din­ner we repaired to I^arry Adler's Shack where we tuned in on a Notre Dame program presented through our local radio station WCLS. Fran­cis Dailey a recent graduate and member of the Illinois Bar gave a talk on the meaning of Universal Night and also paid tribute to the memory of our late Coach, Mr. Rockne. Don Williams, former star of the University of Southern Cali­fornia who was a guest of the Club, made a few remarks relative to foot­ball. A quartet sang several Notre Dame songs and our broadcast was finished. 

We tuned in on the program pre­sented by WGN, Chicago and gave our attention to Father O'Donnell's speech. 
Cards were played and a lunch served so all in all I believe the mem­bers had a pleasant evening. 
KANSAS CITY Dear Jim: 
We had the largest turnout in the historj' of the K. C.-N. D. Club last night. The party was a stag dinner in the Kansas City Athletic Club. Fifty members attended. We broad­cast our program over WLBF through the courtesy of Mr. John Hogan, an 
N. D. enthusiast. Eddie McGrath was master of ceremonies and an­nouncer. We had a twelve piece or­crhesta for the evening, and the pro­gram started off with the Victory March. Next Henry Burdick, vice-President, (Doctor Nigro, President is in Europe) read "The Inevitable Hour" from the ALUMNUS. That page was beautifully written, and Henry did justice to it. Coach Bill Hargiss of Kansas University, and his -Assistant, Mike Getto were guests of honor, and Coach Hargiss spoke of Notre Dame, her traditions, • and Coach Rockne. It was very impres­sive, and was ably done. - The old Maestro Eddie McGrath then sang songs of Notre Dame: specialty songs of his own. 
We were unfortunate in not being able to get Father O'Donnell's ad­dress on the radio. Probably the in­clement weather caused poor recep­tion here. Our banquet was held at ten-thirty, and during the banquet we were entertained by Bobby Mack and his troupe from the Roof Garden Aladdin. After the banquet the club went to the Aladdin Roof Garden, for a special Notre Dame program. 
Maurice Carroll. 
KENTUCKY 
The Editor was privileged to share the observance with the N. D. men in the Blue Grass state. Arriving from Atlanta, I was just in time to miss the special Mass for Ivnute Rockne which was said at the Cathe­dral, at which more than twenty Notre Dame men received Commun­ion. A breakfast followed at the Seelbach Hotel, where Ed Moriarity, manager, insisted that I stay in a style to which I could never afford to become accustomed. Frank Bloemer, the Pfeiffers, Jim Harmon, Jim Cos­tello, et, al. saw to it that no time was left heavy on my hands. Monday afternoon we were to see Ed Walsh pitch for the Colonels, but rain gave Ed a day off and aside from a lot of fresh air and Jim Costello's flat tire, the trip to the ball park was purely scenic. 

The dinner at the Seelbach on Mon­day night climaxed it. Thirty-six N.D. men, a remarkable percentage of the grand total membership in Kentucky, were on deck, and glad of it. 
A fine dinner was followed by a few talks, a tribute to Rock and a lot of entertainment. The latter was headed by a Louisville boy whose magic has had none other than the great Thurston enthusiastic. Need-, less to say, the Club was little the wser after the demonstration, ex­cept for audible resolutions to re­frain from card games with the per­former. 
Two or three boxing'^bouts and an eight-negro-free-for-all put a lot of action into a short time. To get back, reluctantly, despite my admitted af­fection for my work, I had to catch an eleven-thirty train. 
LOS ANGELES 
The Notre Dame Club of Los An­geles held their annual Universal Notre Dame Night banquet at the University Club, about fifty members attending. 
The Night was dedicated to "Rock" and Christy Walsh, Tom Lieb, Thom­as A. Heam, Classmate of Rockne's, and Bill Cook and H. E. King of the '13 team, entertained us with a few interesting Rockne stories and remi­niscences. 
A Scholarship to be known as the "Rockne Memorial Scholarship" was created by the Club as their tribute 
, to "Rock." This scholarship will be used to help send some worthy Los Angeles boys to N. D., and will be so arranged that there vrill be, at all times, a Rockne Scholarship student at the University. 
At a business meeting following the banquet Christy Walsh was unan­imously elected as Honorary member of the Club, and the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: 
Honorary President—Henry Dock­weiler, '12; President-^ohn W. Wad-den, '06; Vice-President—George D. McDonald, '16; Secretary—^Larry A. Moore, '29; Treasurer—William. R. Sidenfaden, '29. 
As the Club's mailing list is very incomplete, Pjesident Wadden ap­pointed a membership committee, con­sisting of Gene Kennedy, '22, Ed. Cunningham, '28, to seek out the ab­sent brethren and an entertainment committee, consisting of Ray Dasch­bach, Jim Kelly and Dewald McDon­ald to keep them interested when we round them up. 
The Club voted to hold monthly meetings, and promised to co-operate with the newly elected President in his plans to put a little pep into the organization. 
Sincerely, Larry A. Moore, '29. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI Dear Jim: The annual meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Louisiana-Mississippi was held on Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday, April 20, at the Holy Cross College. The meeting was preceded by a delightful banquet given to the Club by the Brothers of the Holy Cross College. It was decided that we would hold another meeting in the early part of June and have as our guest as many as we possibly can of the stu­dents from our respective states who are now at Notre Dame. With kindest regards, Cyp. Sporl. 
The Club enclosed a copy of resolu­
tions which were adopted by the Club 
in honor and memory of Coach Knute 
Rockne. 
MILWAUKEE 
Dear Jim: 
Votes were unanimous in many re­spects at the Milwaukee Athletic Club on Universal Notre Dame Night, especially so in regard to the fulness of the evening due to the co-opera­tion of Brothers Pearson, Redden, and Burke. This meeting was a suc­cess in attendance, spirit, and even receipts. 
The following officers were elected for the coming year: 
Honorary President—Frank Burke, '03; President —William J. Redden, '14; First Vice-President — William Coakley, '12; Second Vice-President— Freman Fitzgerald, '16; Secretary— Frank Holdampf, '28, 915 N. 24th St., Apt. 25; Treasurer—Dudley Pearson, '19; Chaplain—Father Raymond Nor­ris, C.S.C., '25. 
A Resolution of Condolence pledg­ing support to Coaches Anderson and Chevigny written by our indomitable Toastmaster Tom Kelly, was adopted and signed by those present. This was followed by a silent tribute to the memory of "Rock." The new Sec­ond Vice-President, Freeman Fitz­gerald, a former teammate and as­sistant to Rockne reminisced on those associations, being followed by Broth­ers "Ed" and Carl Pick who jour­neyed in from West Bend to attend the affair. 
"Dud" Pearson, the Chairman in charge of the arrangements for the meeting gave a touching recital of some of his works under Rockne. Other speakers of the evening were Father Norris, C.S.C, '25, John J. Mclntyre, '84, Harold Watson, '25, "Ed" Rogers, '14, Charles Schutty, '29, and the retiring President, Dr. 
J. R. Dundon, '14. Brother Freeze, '10, newly ap­pointed Chairman of the Living En­
dowment Fund, made an eloquent plea in support of this worthy work. 

These remarks were augmented by 
Paul Brust, '28. 
The Club voted to levy dues of ?3.00 per annum which would include the annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner. It was also agreed to continue Luncheon Meetings on the first Monday of each month at the Hotel Antlers, 12:15 P. M. The Club extends an invitation to all Notre Dame men who happen to be in Mil­waukee on any of these dates to join them in an excellent luncheon and to meet the Milwaukee members. 
The following Committees have been appointed by the new President: 
1. Luncheon Program—Jim Wheel­er, '19, Chairman; 2. Alumni Associa­tion—Ed Rogers, '14, Chairman; 3. Living Endow^ment Fund—Chet Freeze, '10, Chairman; 4. Resolution and Sick—Tom Kelly, '18, Chairman; 
5. Reunion —Fred Miller, '29, Chair­man; 6. Dance — Frank Madden, '12, Chairman. 
The personnel of which to be chosen by the above Chairmen. 
With the capable assistance of my able assistants Paul Brust, '28, and Angelo Galdabini, '29, we are off to a big year and fifty-yard line seats. 
Yours for Notre Dame, Frank J. Holdampf. 
The Milwaukee Club arranged for 

a Mass which was said for the re­
pose of the soul of Knute Rockne in 
St. Jude's Church, Wauwatosa. 
The Mass was said by the Rev. Raymond M. Norris, C.S.C, a Notre Dame alumnus. The 90 members of the Club received Holy Communion in a body. 
NASHVILLE "" 

The Nashville-Notre Dame Club very appropriately celebrated Uni­versal Notre Dame Night with a very successful get-together at the home of one of the members. 
Foremost in our minds, of course, was "Rock." We had a copy at hand of the Edgar A. Guest eulogy given over the radio Easter night accom­panied by the befitting poem which he dedicated to "Rock." 
Plans were made for a dinner to be held in one of the hotels on Thurs­day, May 8. Alumni in Nashville and vicinity are also considreing­more frequent get-togethers in the future. 
Because of the disorganization of the Club since the death of Ferdinand Kuhn, founder of the organization, only a Secretary was elected to take care of the few alumni in the district. Robert P. Williams, Jr., '29, received this appointment. 
One of the local radio stations was kind enough to dedicate a Notre Dame program to us. This was exe­cuted nery nicely with a short talk by the announcer. 
The Nashville-Notre Dame Club sends its congratulations on another 
successful Universal  Notre Dame  
Night.  
NEW  JERSEY  

New Jersey observed Universal Notre Dame Night when New Jersey alumni gathered together at Kruger's Club. 
There were many speakers and all dealt at length on "Rock." 
Included among the latter was Chris Cagle, erstwhile Army football star, John Law, captain of the N. D. team of 1929 and present coach at Manhattan College, Chick Meehan in charge of athletics at N. Y. U., Joe Byrne, Ed Ruelbach, Gus" Desch, Bert Daniels, President of the New Jersey Club and D. P. Murphy. Also Ed Thorp, John Kieran, sports Editor of the N. Y. Times, and several local pressmen. 
Approximately ninety members at­tended and all voted Hunk Anderson and Jack Chevigny their support and co-operation. 
NEW YORK 
"A solemn High Mass in St. Pat­rick's Cathedral was celebrated by the Rev. Patrick Hagerty, C.S.C, and the Catafalque was blessed by Bishop Dunn, Auxiliary Bishop of the Arch­diocese of New York. There were over a thousand present and practi­cally all of the 350 members of the Notre Dame Club of New York at­tended. Our Mayor, a very close per­sonal friend of Rock's was also there. 
"Universal Notre Dame Night was a successful one for all of us. We had 125 members at the New York Athletic Club and everyone had a mar\-elous time, re-living our lives at Notre Dame. Angus McDonald and Frank Walker made beautiful speech­es on what Notre Dame meant to them. Their answering loyalty and devotion was typical of both. Tom Murphy told us that Rock had in­tended to be present at our affair. 
"The Club is having a retreat the first v/eek in June at the Loyola re­treat house in New Jersey, dedicated to Rockne." 
Faced with the last minute neces­sity of finding a substitute for the Notre Dame Glee Club,alunmi of New York and the vicinity put in several feverish hours and finally achieved brilliant success in presenting the Paulist Choristers and Mediaevalists at the special benefit concert for St. Vincent'sHospital of Montclair, N. J. The concert was held Monday evening April 6th, in the auditorium of the Montclair High School. 
A committee headed by John Q. Adams, '2G, of Montclair, had spent more than t\vo months in preparation for what was to be the only appear­ance of the Glee Club in the vicinity 
of New York; an elaborate publicity 
campaign had been nearly complet­
ed; a handsome sonvenir program' 
had gone to the printer; and every­
thing was in readiness for the con­
cert. The high school aaditorimn, 
seating 1200, had been sold out. 
Then came the shocking news of Knute Rockne's death. Frantic tele­phone calls were put through to Notre Dame and Adams was first informed by Pirof. Joseph Casasanta, director of the Glee Qub, that the Qub's complete schedule would be filled if possible. Nearly all the metropolitan newspapers carried a statement from Adams to this effect. 
Then, a few hours later, came the word from Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, 
C. S. C.,president of the university, that all activities of campus organi­zation had been cancelled and that the Glee Club would not be able to' come to Montclair. His message was as follows: 
"The University regrets the ne­cessity that prevents the Glee Club from keeping its engagement at Montclair. Mr. Rockne's death was a great shock to the boys. All campus organizations of the University that during the Easter vacation normally take trips have cancelled their en­gagements, to remain at Notre Dame and assist at the exercises while Mr. Rockne's body lies in state. The Glee Club will sing during the Mass, and for this very practical reason must be here at Notre Dame." 
"Mr. Rockne was a national figure and belonged to the entire nation. We appreciate that Montclair in in giv­ing up its expectation of the Glee Club concert during this time is only acting in accord with the rest of the country in honoring Mr. Rockne." 
At the end of the third musical group Father Finn made his only ad­dress of the evening, paying tribute • in a few simple, heartfelt words to the memory of Knute Rockne both as the greatest figure football has ever produced and as fine a Christian gentleman. The following number.of Father Finn's own composition, was dedicated to Rockne's memory. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Universal Notre Dame Night brought out the largest attendance ever assembled, to my knowledge, at any meeting in Northern California. The banquet was held in the Elk's Club. Thirty-one were present. Some of the more prominent guests in­cluded Supervisor Warren Shannon, "Buck" Shaw, "Qipper" Smith. 
Election of officers was a feature of the evening. Bert V. Dunne, '26, was chosen President to succeed John S. Mclnnes; Breen McDonald, '18, Vice-President; and the writer (Mark Kreutzer) was re-elected Sec­retary-Treasurer. 

The Club had a Mass sung for K. 
K. Rockne at Old St. Mary's Church the morning of April 9. A large num­ber of the members were in attend­ance and most of them received Holy Communion. A very respectable num­ber of people of the city were also in attendance. 
OKLAHOMA 
Thomas F. Shea, Tulsa, sent in the 
announcement that the Notre Dame 
Club of Oklahoma held a special re­
quiem Mass in honor of Ivnute IC 
Rockne. The JIass was sung on Mon­
day, April 13. 
PEORIA Another new Club joined the ranks on Universal Notre Dame Night. The Notre Dame men in the vicinity of Peoria gathered together on April 20 at the Hotel Pere Marquette for a dinner. About fifty enthusiastic alumni from a radius of fifty miles were present. Professor Louis Buckley, '28, mem­ber of the Notre Dame faculty proved to be a very popular guest speaker and brought a touch of the campus to Peoria. John Noppenberger, '25, paid a fine tribute to Rockne. An ad­dress, "Pioneer Days at Notre Dame," by Jerry Sheehan was enthusiastical­ly received. The invocation and a prayer offered for the repose of the soul of Rock was given by Rev. Charles Williams, 'IS. The follo%ving men were elected to office: Hon. President — Rev. John J. Burke, '83; President—Dr. Joseph F. Duane, '99; Vice-President—^Attorney John Cassidy, '17; Secretary-Treas­urer—Albert F. Gury, Jr., '28. 
PHILADELPHLA. 
"At the Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner at the Las Cascades the following were elected officers for the next year: 
President—Clarence J. James, '15, (re-elected); Vice-President—Dr. Wil­liam J. Johnson, '89; Secretary­Treasurer—^Harry H. Francis, Jr., '30. 
"It was a grand meeting, the larg­est and best ever. There were 25 of us and we ended the evening with a thorough 'bull session' which lasted into the morning up in Chief Neeson's City Hall office, whence we had ad­journed after the dinner to hear the Chicago broadcast. The meeting it­self was chuck full of activity but one thing transpired which of itself would have reflected sufficient merit on the gathering. We were able to make announcement that a fund had been collected that will make it pos­sible to have a Mass here in Phila­delphia each year for the repose of the soul of beloved Rockne. The fund is sufficient to make this possible for a number of years and it is planned that the Mass be said on March .31 

with the entire Club membership as­sisting and receiving Holy Commun­ion for this intention. 
John Kelly." 

Plans were also made for a weekly luncheon every Thursday at Booth­by's Restaurant, 113 S. 13th St., Phil­adelphia. Harry says: "We want all the fellows who are in the city on Thursday to drop in there and see us. The time is 12:15." 
PORTLAND The Notre Dame Club of Portland elected officers on Universal Notre Dame Night. Morrie Conway, '14, was elected president and Barney Macnab, '25, is the new secretary. Barney writes: "We had a nice meeting last Mon­day, (April 20.) We tried to get a radio installed so that we could get Father O'Donnell's speech but could not get it, due to the fact that there was a broadcasting station where we were eating. Tlie number in attend­ance was from 35 to 40 dating in age from the Class of 1873, Father E. P. Murphy, to the Class of 1930. All were very enthusiastic and promised to be with us • whenever possible in the future. The meeting was a me­morial for Rock, not a dirge, how­ever." 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY Celebrating the second anniversary of its own organization ^vith a dinner at the LaFayette Hotel, Rockford, the Notre Dame Club of Rock River Valley joined with particular inter­est in the observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. Attorney Shenvood Dixon, '20, of Di.Kon, was elected president of the club, whose membership includes men from Beloit, Wis.; Dixon, Sterling, Oregon, Rockford and neighboring towns. Attorney Dixon, who had ser\-ed as vice-president during the first year of the club, succeeds E. M. Lorden, '24, Rockford. George Skeyhan, '26, was named vice-president to succeed Willard Jones, '25, of Dixon. George took the pharmacy course at Notre Dame, but the old gag about the sandwich course does' not apply to him. The Skeyhans operate one of those rare drug stores which sell drugs only and forego the notions. The election also shifts Willard Jones from vice-president to the com-Ijined office of secretary-treasurer, which had been held by J. Henry Fannan, '24, Rockford. Although Mr. Jones is an undertake!-, his election by no means implies that the club is "dead," least of all the Dixon rep­resentation which has been one of the most enthusiastic supporters of the group. The club has set Sunday, June 14, as the day for a picnic to be held at Dixon's Cabin near Dixon. The principal speaker of the Rock River Valley club on Universal 
Night was Rex Enright, '26, Rock­ford, formerly coach, with Chuck Col­lins, North Carolina, and who will be with Georgia next fall. Rex starred as fullback in '25, particularly in that memorable game in which Notre Dame came from behind to beat Northwestern, 13 to 10, on Cartier field. 
The meeting ended with the inspir­ing radio address of the Rev. Charles O'Donnell. 
ST. LOUIS 
Dear Jim: 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Louis 
has elected new officers for the com­
ing year. All of said officers have 
pledged to do everything in their 
power to promote a bigger and bet­
ter St. Louis Club. 
The new officers are Leo Sutliffe, 
'24, President, Thomas Glj-nn, Vice-
President, and yours truly. Secretary 
and Treasurer. 
The new executive board consists 
of Dr. Joseph Costello, '12, retiring 
president; Dr. Daniel L. Sexton, '20, 
retiring secretary; Joseph McGlynn, 
'12, Roland Gaupel, '13, Robert How-
land, '25, and Dr. T. R. Kennedv, 
'14: Elected '26. 
Henceforth the Club will hold a 
monthly luncheon meeting on the 
first Wednesday of every month, at 
the Bismark Restaurant, 410 North 
12th Street, St. Louis. 
We shall begin work immediately on our golf matches, to determine who our representatives will, be in the commencement alumni tournament. 
Robert Hellrung. 
TWIN CITIES 
About 500 persons attended the special low Mass said for Knute Rockne at 8 A. JI., April 6 in the Cathedral in St. Paul. Rev. Lawrence 
F. Ryan, pastor of the Cathedral and for many years a friend of Rockne, said the Mass. 
Dear Jim:—Thank you ever so much for the iilms. They arrived Sat­urday and we had a Paramount Theatre man run them for us. 
We had a fine turnout—about sixty fellows, and we worked out quite an extensive program. 
The scene was the beautiful Casino room of the St. Paul Hotel, lighted softly, in futuristic design. Above the orchestra hung a picture of "Rock." At the opposite end, back of Father Schumacher and Dr. CuUigan, was a monogram blanket. 
Father Schumacher's address was complete, deep, satisfying. It was much more intimate than the press-summary I can send you. There was a subdued real grief, and yet a most stirring appeal. 
Dr. CuUigan introduced Joe Boland as a man who is making real at St. Thomas the things Rockne taught, as a facsimile, in many ways, of Rock himself. Joe was humble in the face of the praise, told some little stories 

about Eockne, and voiced the ambi­
tion of all of "Eock's boys" to fulfill 
what they had been taught. 
Joe Benda, called on suddenly, 

made a talk that rang vnth a hearten­
ing sincerity; he told of all that 
Eockne meant and Notre Dame means 
to himself and to all of us, and fin­
ished with the words "Carry On!" 
Paul McDermott, who spoke first 

after Father Schumacher, made a 
like appeal. 
We all got a kick from the scenes 

of Commencement, the golf course, the 
buildings, and the rest. 
Our oldest alumnus was F. J. Gar­

rity, of '85, I believe. Louie Chute, 
of one of the classes about the turn 
of the century, was also there. 
Jack Doyle, '28, was general chair­

man of arrangements, and a fine hard 
worker. To him is due a large share 
of the credit for the whole evening. 
Joe Boland, '27, was chairman of the 
program and entex-tainment. 
At each place we put one of the 

Eockne spiritual bouquets. Father 
O'Hara, with a kindly promptness, 
got a supply of them to us Monday 
morning. Please tell him that we 
thank him very much. I'll drop him a 
line when I work myself clear of the 
present tidal wave of class work. 
• We are all glad to hear of the re­turn of Jess Harper to the post. Father Schumacher announced it during his address, and characterized it as "great news." 
Perce Wilcox, our treasurer, had 

printed copies of- the campus songs. 
Some of the older fellows, of course, 
are not familiar with the words of 
the later songs, 
Mark Nolan 'phoned in his best 

wishes and his regrets upon being 
unable to attend. Father Hugh O'Don­
nell, who is with us here at St. 
Thomas, also sent his best wishes. 
Dr. Culligan molded the parts of 

the program together very well as 
toastmaster. He opened with an ef­
fective keynote that set the whole 
tone of the evening. He paid tribute 
to Eockne as student, classmate, 
teacher, coach, and leader of men. 
BOB FOGEETY. 
TIFFIN 

The Notre Dame Club of Tifiin was officially organized on Universal Notre Dame Night. The alumni in the vicinity, only about ten, gathered together for a successful dinner at the Shawhan Hotel. Election of offi­cers resulted in the following being chosen: C. J. Schmidt, '11, President, and Fred Wagnei-, '29, Secretary. Fred says: "There are only a few of us, I know, but we would enjoy doing something toward helping the Alumni Association." (Ed's note: And the Editor says right now that just the idea of having a definitely organized Notre Dame organization to take re­sponsibility if occasion demands, is doing something that is a big help. 
not only to the Association but to Notre Dame. More power!) 
Mr. Sayger who is the coach at Heidelberg College was the guest of the evening. Sayger was an intimate friend of "Eock's" and studied under him in coaching school. Others pres­ent included: C. J. Schmidt, Phil Fleck, John Friedman, Paul Lauter­milch, Eoswell Leahy, Ben Mahank, Joseph Wagner and Fred Wagner, William Dore and Charles Pahl were unable to be present. 
The above group received Holy Communion in a body on Sunday, April 19, for the repose of the soul of Knute Eockne. 
TEI-CITY NOTEE DAME CLUB Harry McCuUough sent in some news of the Club. 
The Club has sent to Father O'Hara a draft to cover Masses the last day of each month for the next two years, for the intention of Knute Eockne. 
The Club was planning to observe Universal Notre Dame Night •with some sort of a quiet get-together as a tribute to Knute Eockne. Arrange­ments were made, according to Harry, to pick up the broadcast of Father Charles O'Donnell in Chicago. 
SOUTHWESTERN TEXAS 
"More than six hundred persons attended memorial services for Coach Eockne in St. Mary's Church, San Antonio, April S. 
"Invitations were sent to Mayor Chambers, city and county commis­sioners and to Army officers of the local post who attended West Point and played against Eockne's teams. Football fans and admirers of Eockne, as well as the general public, irres­spective of creed, attended. 
"Very Rev. A. C. Dusseau, pastor of St. Mary's Church was celebrant of the Mass, while Eev. George 5Ic­Namara, C.S.C, of Austin, formerly of Notre Dame, delivered the eulogy. 
"Leonard M. Hess, Clem Haggerty, Kirwin Williams, Harold Tynan, all alumni, acted as ushers at the Mass." 
The following new officers have been elected: 
Joseph A. Menger, '25, was again chosen President; Harold Tynan, '27, was elected Vice-President; and Leon­ard Hess, '25, Secretary and Treaus­urer. 
Written ballots were sent out some ten days before election. 
SYEACUSE Dear Jim: 
As the new secretary of the Syra­cuse Club, I'm sending you the news of our organization. 
We Syracusans naturally were grieved at "Eock's" death and at­tended a requiem Mass at St. Brigid's Church, said by Father Tobmey, '26, 
on Monday, April 13. 
Universal Notre Dame Night we held a successful banquet which was followed by election of officers for the coming year. Jacob E. Eckel, '16, was elected President, and myself (Fred DeLany, '30), elected Secretary and Treasurer. I'm mentioning the treasurer side of the job that through publication delinquents may leam where to pay dues and to whom. 
(Ed.'s note: I'm afraid you can't be 
so subtle and succeed, Fred.) 
On June 25th at the Skaneateles Country Club we will have our an­nual Golf tournament. This will take place through the afternoon and eve­ning, and by virtue of the good offices of Jim Huxford, '21,—^we'd like all alumni near by to come if they can and meet our group if they haven't done so already. 
Yours truly, 
Fred DeLany. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
Clubs are now doing, in many in­
stances, what the national Associa­
tion would have pointed to \vith pride 
some years baclc It still points with 
pride, but now a bit parental. The 
Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph 
Valley, fittingly and logically, is 
taking its place in the van of the 
Clubs. It had the largest observance 
of U. N. D. Night, 260 persons gath­
ering in the University Dining Halls 
to hear the Eev. John Cavanaugh, 
C. S. C, deliver one of his most eloquent addresses. The Glee Club sang. Frank E. Hering, president of the Alumni Association, introduced Father Cavanaugh. It was indeed an auspicious occasion. 
At the time of the Eockne funeral the Club proved that it is no longer an indefinable factor in the life of the University. It volunteered its ser­vices immediately in any desired ca­pacity. This oiFer was accepted by the University and the Club assigned the task of meeting the hundreds of distinguished guests who came ^rom out of the city for the funeral. The Mayor of New York, the Mayor of Philadelphia, their parties, and the personal representatives of the King of Nonvay, were met by special com­mittees and extended the Club's hos­pitality during their stay. The Club, through another committee, furnished transportation for several hundred persons, particularly the returned. Monogram men in the funeral proces­sion, in addition to the regular funeral cars. Members of the Club, wearing identification badges, formed reception committees at the railroad and electric depots. 
A special Mass for Knute Eockne 
was said in the Log Chapel on the 
morning of April 19, by Eev. John 
Cavanaugh, C. S. C, and was at­
tended by more than fifty members of 
the Club who received Communion there. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS May, 1931 
The Club is planning to make re­ception arrangements for the Com­mencement visitors, as in the past. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 
Morrie Starrett crashes the gates at the last minute with the dope on the Universal Notre Dame Night ob­servance in Western Washington. Morrie says: 
"Notre Dame Club functioned fine for Universal Notre Dame Night. 

Record crowd of thirty-two were out. George Nyere, Frank Kirkland and Jimmy Phelan did a great entertain­ment stunt. We observed the Night in the Palm room of the Bergonian Hotel for four hours. Officers elected: Dr. Clarence Shannon, president; John Carmody, vice-president; E. M. Starrett, secretary-treasurer. Tom Lally delivered a fine memorial to 'Rock'." 
llllllllllllltlltll Iltllllltlllll 
Q M titMitinnitiiiNiittiinutiitniMiiitiitiiiniuiiiiiitiiMiiiiiitiiMiiniMMiiitiiitiitiitii 
E), 
(Kditor's Nole: Two national conventions and tile tragic death of Knute Rockne have had the Editor doublinc and triplins in various capacities since April 1. Many Club requests. as well as individual, have none astray or been delayed. The indulKonce of the offended is asked in the face of unusual circumstances. Reform is the outstanding plunk in the 1931-2 platfonn, and this is no re-election si)eech. either. Deo Kratias.) 


Religious Survey Status 
At this writing 561 questionaires have been returned in the Alumni Religious Survey, enough to make a 
• thoroughly representative study. Thir­ty-seven states, the District of Colum­bia, and Canada, are represented in the returns. The states missing are: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Delaware, Virginia, North and South Carolina, Alabama, Georgia, Utah, and Nevada. 
According to graduation years, the ratio of returns is fairly even, except in the case of the groups since the war. The following tabulation shows the percentages of graduates and the percentage of returns in each group: 
^/r, of % of 
Grad. Returns Group I—before 1905.. 9.6 8 Group 11—1906-1911 .. . 6 5 Group III—1912-1917 ...10 12 Group IV—1918-1925 .. .27 37 Group V—1926-1930 ...47.4 38 
Births 
Paul Hdeffler writes: -A. package was delivered at the home of Mr. and Mrs. ED. J. BAICER in the form of a baby boy .. . Ed was an engineer of the '23 Class, and as I am the kid's uncle, we got in a huddle trying to figure out what kind of material he is for future football teams. 
ROBERT KILIAN GORDON, JR. has joined the household of Bob, '25, and Mrs. Gordon in Ft. Wayne. Got his papers April 10. 
JOHN ARTHUR CONNELL, April 15, is the good word from DANIEL 
R. CONNELL, Jr., '25. 


^THE ALUMNI; 
Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN PIETRO­WICZ, '26, announce the arrival of a daughter on March 30, a letter from JIM RONAN states, a red-head, to make life worth living for the two young gentlemen announced above. 
The ALUMNUS is also reported to have overlooked WILLIAM JOSEPH CORBETT III, who arrived about the same time as Santa Claus, if anv. Pardon, Bill H and IIL 
Mr. and Mrs GLADSTONE Mc-DERMOTT, '27, Grand Rapids, an­nounce the arrival of Mary Grace on May 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM CRONIN, now of New York as you know, have added eight pounds of heir to the net weight of the metropolitan popu­lation. Details in the Wall St. Jmir­nal, or as soon as we can corrall the dope. 
I 
Deaths 
I 
JOSEPH L. PRELLI, Ph.B. in For­eign Com. '28, died on April 18, as the result of pneumonia. Joe was a monogram football man, though in­juries kept him from the realization of his outstanding athletic ability. He was a good student. His quiet, pleasant disposition made him most popular with fellow students. Joe was buried in California, where his home was. 
The ALUMNUS extends sympathy to REV. CASIMIR LUZNY, '14, and REV. ANTHONY ROSEWICZ, '11, whose mothers died recently; to PAUL CASTNER, '23, whose sister died suddenly in Chicago; to ED FALLON, '26, whose mother died; to REV. GEORGE F. X. STRASS­NER, whose mother died in Toledo, to WILLIAM L. LEARY, '25, whose father died in Texas. 
DR. LOUIS T. PIM, a former stu­dent, '89, died May 5 in St. Louis. He was 59. He served in both the 
WHEELING 
The Notre Dame Club of Wheeling makes its bow to society. On Univer­sal Notre Dame Night fellows from the vicinity of Wheeling met for din­ner at the Marigold Tavern in the Eastern Ohio hills. Fifteen members held a swell, old-time "bull session." Immediately after the dinner, a short business meeting was held. Members 
(Continued on Pajje 352) 
-B 
•iiiiiiitiittiiiiiiii ..Q 
Spanish-American and the World Wars, captain in the former and major in the latter. He is survived by his widow and two children, re­siding at 4616 Lindell Blvd. 
Marriages 
Miss Mary Antoinette Rodesnv and LEONARD MARK HESS, '25,"were married April 22 in San Antonio. BILL DIELMANN was best man. 
JOHN SNAKARD, '25, was to have been married April 18 in San Angelo, Te.xas, to a young lady who formerlj' lived in Ft. Worth. No details. 
As the ALUMNUS goes to press, DON MILLER, '25, is on his way to the altar at St. Mary-of-the-Woods, Indiana, with Miss Mae Katherine Lynch. Miss Lynch is a sister of ED LYNCH, '26, and Jack Lynch, now a sophomore at N. D. All of the Miller brothers will be in the wed­ding party and Stuhldreher, Crowley and Layden will act as ushers. If they form as good interference as they did in '24, Don won't need to use his broken field running ability in the aisle. The bride is a daughter of Mr. John F. Lynch of Terre Haute. 
TOM GORDON, '24, was probably not present at any U.N.D. Night ob­servances. He was married Monday morning, April 20, to Miss Mary Alice O'Connell, in St. Patrick's Church, South Hadley Falls, Mass. 
JOHNNY LAW, '30, was married to Miss Helen Isabel Van Deventer, of Yonkers, N. Y., on April 11. They are at home at Fieldston Towers, Fieldston, New York City. 
Miss Marguerite Helene Thornton, South Bend, became the bride of GEORGE GORDON O'BRIEN, JR., Mahwah, N. J., on April 11. The wedding was performed at Darling­ton, N. J. They are at home in Cragmore Park, Mahwah, N. J. 

JOSEPH BRAUNSDOEF, '28, Buf­falo, N. Y., and Miss Margaret Berry, of Stanley, N. Y., were married in South Bend, Mr. Braunsdorf s home city, April 29. Rev. P. J. Carroll, C.S.C., performed the ceremony. 
JOE BOLAND, '27, was married in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame on Tuesday, April 7, to Miss Margaret Limburg, St. Paul. The romance be­gan in the hospital in Minneapolis where Joe was confined with a broken leg following the Notre Dame-Minne­sota game. 
JOHN WILLARD JONES, '25, Dixon, 111., is to be married in June to Miss Elizabeth Hennessey, Dixon, according to announcement and re­liable confirmation. 
r Personals 
1894 
Hugh A. O'Doimell, The New York Times, New York City. 

pear Jim: The following may be suitable copy for the next issue of THE ALUM­NUS: "Mr. C. C. FitzGerald, '94, writes me an interesting story that is worth repetition in THE ALUMNUS. 'In 1929, the American State De­partment, presented against the Re­public of Cuba, a claim which with twelve year's interest involved nearly ten millions of dollars, for the de­struction of sand deposits. The rail­way belonged to an American citizen. It was decided to arbitrate it and the 
U. S. government appropriated forty thousand dollars to pay for the e.x­penses of the -4.merican side. Well, the claim was based on a grain of truth and had a web of exaggera­tions, let us call them, woven around it and was so well presented that when one read it he might believe it. There was all the legal part, right acquired, etc. that the Cuban Lawyers were fully able to handle. 
The engineering side, the value of the property, the cost of construction, the earnings, etc. that needed one who was versed in railroads, value of sand.cost of digging, etc. Who was to be the expert for the Cuban gov­ernment whose word would carry weight. The Cuban arbitrator called on the the Secretary of Public Works to designate an engineer and he sent for me. He has known me for twenty years. He said, 'FitzGerald , here is a grave case. This may cost the Re­public of Cuba ten millions of dollars. The Claim is being backed up by your country. I have known you for many years and you are an honest man. I feel that I can trust you to do justice, even against your own fellow citi­zens.' Well the funny part of the story is this:— 
The other side, while they had an American, Scotch and Irish engineer, also had a Cuban as the one who was the "expert witness." On the final day of the proceedings we made an inspection of the place where the line had been to see the remains. The arbitrator would want something explained and would call for the ex­pert of the American claimant and up would pop a Cuban eng^ineer; then they would call for the expert of the Republic of Cuba and up would pop FitzGerald. Well, to make a long story short, besides my written re­port which had to be made in a hurry, I was on the stand seven hours one day and five the next. I was the last witness. The American arbitra­tor reduced the claim then to three and one half million dollars includ­ing interest and the claim was finally settled for three hundred and fifty thousand. Now the American claim­ant, his lawyers, engineers and cred­itors are all fighting over the pro­ceeds in Washington and maybe by this time the State Department rea­lizes what a terrible faux pas it made in presenting such a claim. However, the faith of my friend, the Secretary of Public Works, was vindicated. But to tell you the truth, one must needs be a monumental liar to take the other side.' 
With regards, I am. Sincerely, Hugh A. O'Donnell. 
1898 
F. Henry Wurzer, 1632 Buhl Bldg, Detroit, Michigan. 
WILLIAM F. MONTAVON, Wash­ington, D. C. will be the Commence­ment speaker for the 1931 graduating Class of the University of Dayton, according to an announcement made by Very Rev. Bernard P. O'Reilly, S.M., president of the University 
V/illiam Montavon is widely known throughout the United States through his activities as director of the Na­tional Catholic Welfare Conference at Washington, D. C. He was award­ed Knigthood in the Order of Saint Gregory the Great in September, 1928, after the conclusion of arrangements for the return of the Bishops of Mex­ico to their dioceses. 
The University of Dayton's Com­mencement exercises will be held on June 6, 7 and 8. 
1900 
John W. Eggeman, 1201 First Nat'l Bank Bldg., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
The Judge sends in the following note: 
"In the April ALUMNUS I notice that you have seen fit to appoint me Secretary of the Class of 1900. It is my desire to keep in the forefront the members of this Class, for most of them have lived up to the tradi­tions of Notre Dame. 
"I shall be unable to do the exem­plary work for dear Alma Hater that dear Frank O'Shaughnessy did, but I will make it my business to get in­to communication with the members of my Class and endeavor to do my part. 
"Once an N. D. man, always an N. 
D. man." . Yours, 
J. W. EGGEMAN" 
The Editor asks that members of '00 assist the Judge by dropping him a line now and then and sending in any news that will be of interest to the .A.LUMNUS. 
1906 
Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen 
BMg, Spokane Wash. 
What is the matter with the old gang of 1906? JIM DUBBS, ALEX McFARLAND, BILL PERCE, LAR­RY McENERNEY; HAROLD FISH­ER, FRANK MCCARTHY, FJVTHER GENE BURKE and a REV. J. T. 
— of Toledo, but whose sig­nature is worse than mine and not readable have answered our appeal and will be present for the 25th re­union, June 5, 6 and 7th. 
The others are probably waiting as they did many years ago for the last bell before waking, so here's that bell and the last appeal for them to enjoy the prophecy of our first Dome in which we said we wandered back to the old school and were met by C. L. O'Donnell who had become Father C. 
L. O'Donnell and President of the whole works. 
If you other fellows listened to Father O'Donnell speak those won­derful words of. praise at Rockne's funeral, heard the old pipe organ peal as it did in our day, you will be on hand. 
Meet in the Oliver Hotel on the morning of June 5th, look each other over and then w^e will proceed to Notre Dame. 
I have not time to send out another letter so let this be considered a per­sonal note to everyone of the '06 men, who have not responded, to be pres­ent. . 
Here's to all of you for June 5th, 6th and 7th. Very Sincerely Yours, Thomas Lally, '06. 
1909 
E. P. Cleary. P. O. Box 356, Momenee, Illinois. 
HOWARD McALEENAN was a visitor in the Alumni Office April 21. Howard is located at 725 S. Westlake 
Ave., Los Angeles and is Commander of the 23rd Engrineer's Post of the American Legion. He was a guest at the organization of the Peoria Club on Universal Notre Dame Night. 

1912 
Edmund H. Savord, 
Box 135, Sandusky, Ohio 
MAECELLUS M. OSHE writes this 
note concerning the Class Secretary: 
"EDMOND SAVOED has just been appointed Judge of the Common Pleas Court in his respective county in Ohio. 
"SAVOED is located at Sanduskv, 
Ohio." 
1914 
Frank H. Hayes, Union Bank of Chicago, Chicago, III. FRANK HAYES has been enjoying the California sunshine and has just returned to his business in Chicago. Frank sent us occasional notes on some of the fellows on the Coast. One note concerns WILLIAM J. CUSACK. Frank said he had paid Bill a visit in his oifice in Los Angeles and found him looking fine and prosperous— which is something these days. Anohter letter contained the fol­lowing paragraph: "WTiile dri\'ing through California, I stopped at Oxnard, Calif., and had a long chat with FRANK CANNING who conducts a shoe store there. He is married and has three daughters. Says he is very anxious to hear from HARRY and DEE NEWNING and would . also like to have FATHER DOREMUS -ivrite him." In answer to a Class letter sent out concerning the Reunion in June, the following have indicated that they will be on deck in June: 
CHARLES E. DOREMUS, WALTER CLEMENTS, JOHN F. HYNES, T. 
W. CLIFFORD, REV. SALVATORE FANELLI, REV. CHARLES J. FLYNN, IRA W. HURLEY, WM. J. REDDEN, JOSEPH F. SMITH, REV. G E 0 R G E F. X. , STRASSNER, CHARLES L. VAUGHN. 
Don't forget that long-looked-for­ward-to reunion with the "gang" un­til next year. This is the year. Classes of 1912, 1913 and 1915 will be back to re-live the old days for a few hours at least. Surely you can afford to give yourself that treat. Drop a note to Frank Hayes and say you'll be back at Notre Dame with the gang! 
1915 
James E. Sanford, 1033 S. Linden Ave, Highland Park, HI. "To date we have received fifteen answers to our recent letter urging attendance at the Class Reunion, June 5, G and 7. JOHN McSHANE, JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR., REV. KERNDT HEALY, C.S.C., "PREP" WELLS, ED FOLEY and REV. PATRICK DOLAN, C.S.C, have sipified their intention to be present in the event that a Class Dinner is arranged for Friday night. JOHN HYNES, MARK 

DUNCAN and H. L. KRAUSER wiU 
attend the reunion but cannot arrive 
for the dinner. 
Sufiicient interest has been shown 
to justify preliminary plans for a 
dinner on the campus Friday evening 
and JOHN McSHANE, 5156 CoUege 
.A.ve., Indianapolis, Ind., BOB ROACH, 
Muscatine, Iowa and TOM SHAUGH­
NESSY, 105 S. LaSaUe St., Chicago 
have been appointed to work with 
the Class Secretary in making plans 
for this affair. The Class is urged to 
send in their return cards promptly 
in order to assist the committees. De­
tails will be sent sometime during 
this month to each member. 
Inasmuch as this banquet will be the first formal gathering of the Class since 1915 a brief memorial ceremony will be held as a tribute to the men who gave their lives in the military and naval service during the war. 
JIMMY lAWLER, McFadden, Wy­oming and BOB BYRNE, Smithville, Texas, sent greetings to the Class and regret that they cannot be back this year. 
JOSEPH SCOTT, LL.D. '15, Los Angeles, Calif., who delivered such an inspiring oration the day we re­ceived our diploma says in a letter to the Secretary: 
"I am extremely sorry that this remote distance and professional ob­ligations here will prevent my being present." We remember very distinct­ly the part in Mr. Scott's talk where he referred to "the fish who swim in tranquil waters and those who are forced to swim upstream." The Oass of '15 has had ample opportunity to test this philosophy with a world war, two major and one minor panics or depressions in the brief period of six­teen years. But judging from the spirit shown to date there is nothing that can discourage them. 
RAY ICELLY, Detroit, is Reunion Chairman for the next American Le­gion National Convention which is to be held in his home city this fall. His committee handles the gatherings of all the outfits who are holding their own special reunions. 
ED PIEL was recently made a partner of Lamhorn Hutchings & Co., 231 S. LaSalle, Chicago. 
JIM SANFORD should be con­gratulated on the long letters he has been sending in to the Head Man in the Alumni Oflice in connection with the '15 Reunion. Considering the fact that he has a brand new son (details in another section of the magazine) we marvel at his ability to keep every-to keep everything so completely under control. We hope that the '15 felows who haven't sent in an answer to the Class letter will drop Jim a card immediately and be on deck June 5, 6, and 7. 
The Class Secretary breaks into print in the April issue of FORBES' magazine. Jim responded to an edi­torial "Stop Nourishing "Soviets," which appeared in the March issue of the magazine. The editorial appar­ently caused nation-wide interest and response. 
1920 
Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black Bldg.. 
Los Angeles, Calif. 
JOHN T. BALFE found time to make a flying trip to Chicago as the representative of the New York Club at the National Catholic Alumni Fed­eration Convention which was held in Chicago, Drake Hotel, April 24, 25 ' and 26 . 
And, by the way, did you know that John, who has been associated with the John C. McNamara organi­zation in the Graybar Building, has moved with the organization to 17 John St.; that he goes down as pro­duction manager; that he has had eight years' experience in life insur­ance business; that he , spent t^vo years in South. America in the bank­ing business, meanwhile taking a post graduate course at the University of Buenos Aires; that after an initial experience in selling, in which cold canvassing was his original diet, John became a brokerage supervisor in the mid-town district, developing a splen­did brokerage territory. When Gray­bar was opened in 1928, he was ap­pointed one of the agency managers there, and began the development of a group of full time associates in con­junction with his brokerage pi-oduct. He is thirty-three years old, married, has two children and makes his home in Mt. Vernon. 
The Stethoscope, issued by the John 
C. McNamara organization, says of John: "Mr. Balfe brings to our cen­tral management personnel a varied experience. A strict disciplinarian, he tempers his insistence on system, with a ready sympathy. His influence will be helpful to all our associates in every grade of experience and vol­ume.." 
1921 
Alden J. Cnsick, 1 Park Avenue, New York City, Secretary 
R. F. NADOLNEY, of Ironwood, Michigan, has been spending the Spring in Tucson, Arizona. He re­ports that EDDIE COLLINS, '03, is enjoying the Southwest climate along with him. Nadolney may be reached at the Santa Rita Hotel. 
1922 Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Av e Roch­ester, N. Y., Secretary. 
HEARTLEY 'Hunk' Anderson has plenty of work ahead now that Rock has passed to his reward. As Sen­ior Coach of football. Hunk is ex­pected to continue the good work performed by Rock, and that is a man's sized job. However, it goes 
May, 1931 

without saying that Hunk is the logi­cal choice, due to great experience in Rockne methods. The Class of '22 takes pardonable pride in Hunk's past performances, and we wish him future success. 
Who can forget our Senior Ball and the wonderful music provided by Isham Jones' Orchestra on that oc­casion? We have just learned that this year's Senior Class have decided to invite Isham Jones & Co. to play at their Ball. It seems like an echo of the good old days. 

In the last issue of the ALUMNUS we printed a very interesting letter from CHARLEY HIRSCHBUHL, in which letter Chuck expressed the wish that he might hear about several of the boys, one of whom was FRANK BLOEMER. Now Frank read of Charley's appeal in the ALUMNUS and immediately wrote a letter to the Secretarj- which we are pleased to have received. Frank ivrites as fol­lows: 
"The letter in the 1922 section of the April ALUMNUS from Charley Hirschbuhl was interesting to read and I might say made me realize that we should give you more co-operation mth news, so as to make the '22 col­umn a page instead of 1/3 of a page. 
ED. and CORNIE PFEIFFER are the King Pen men in the Insurance business in Louisville. PHIL. DANT is in the furniture business and doing nicely. He just bought a new modem furniture display market up in the better residential section of Louisville which is a credit to that section of the town. PETE ECKERLE, we have lost for a time being and hope this brings an answer from him as to his whereabouts. DOLAN dropped in last week and we had a nice chat together. BEN SUSEN was in town last fall being on his way south to buy up a cotton mill for the Susen Brothers. He promised to stop on his way back, and I hope he reads this so that he knows the wife still has the chicken in the ice box that we were going to ser\'e him as he came through. CLETE LYNCH used to come in to see me once in a while, but on his last trip here, Clete and I went for a ride and something went wrong with the Ford and we turned over in a ditch, and since then Clete has either been slipping into Louis­ville and slipping out again or dodg­ing Louisville altogether. I attended Rockne's funeral and on that occa­sion had a chat with JERRY DIXON and Father GEORGE FISCHER who seem to be doing wonderfully well. 
All the boys are married now and don't get together quite as much as we formerly did, but we are planning big things for next fall, especially for the Southern California game. PAUL CASTNER was down here 
several months ago in the interests 
of the Studebaker Corp. 
If any of the fellows are coming 
down for the Derby from up in your 
section tell them to drop in at 126 
East Jefferson and we will try to 
show them a little Kentucky hospi­
tality. 
Glad to see somebodj' has promoted a 10th Anniversary celebration and you can rest assured if the freight trains are still running between Louisville and South Bend, CORNIE, ED., PHIL., and myself will grab an arm rail or side door puUmam and be there." 
AL SCOTT is now Deputy City Attorney for the city of Los Angeles. 
"HUNK" ANDERSON is facing a tremendous task in picking up the woi-k of Knute Rockne, but he is not showing any ill effects. He has confi­dence in his ability and he is willing to give his all that the plans of his famous leader may be carried out. When he is not busy teaching the rudiments of football he spends a quiet life with his family. Hunk has a wife and three children, Shirley Jean, Joan Marie and William. He resides at 205 W. Navarre St., South Bend. 
D. BI. COUGHLIN of the Waseca Minnesota Herald, was elected first vice-president of the Minnesota Edi­torial association at its recent meeting in St. Paul. 
1923 
Paul Castner, Studebaker Corp., South Bend, Ind. 
FRANK WALLACE has sold the film rights of "Huddle," the story of Knute Rockne, to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Frank recently returned from Florida with the manuscript of two new stories, "Stadium" and "O'Rielly of Notre Dame," a boy's story, which will be published by Farrar and Rine­hart. 
1924 James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave., New York City. 
Next year's crop of debutantes in the nation's Capital city will be fairer by far than past seasons. JUNO KINERK'S wife has taken over the beauty parlor at the Park Lane in Washington. 
A letter from E. NEWELL DE­GUBSE, of Port Huron, Michigan, assures us that he will be present for the Law Reunion at Commencement in June. Newell says: "Aside from the anticipation of seeing my old friends, I am most anxious to see what the completed new College of Law looks like." 
EDWARD B. CASEY was elected to the associate judgeship of the Municipal Court in Chicago, on April 
7. In view of the fact that Judge Casey was a Republican nominee, his victory in the face of the Democratic landslide indicates that he has a promising future in Chicago. The vote was close. Judge Casey polling 558,841 votes to his opponent's 539,­
813. We offer our congratulations. 
1925 
Jobn W. Seallan, Pnllman Co., 79 W. Adams St., Cliicsgo, Secretary. 
FRANK W. HOWLAND, formerly of Streator, 111., has moved to Rock­ford, m., where he has established his office as district agent of the Mas­sachusetts Mutual Life Insurance company. Frank, who received his degree in the College of Commerce in '25, will be remembered as the good-looking drummer in Harry Denny's collegiate orchestra of several years ago. 
HARRY McGUIRE who, with Mrs. McGuire, is spending a year in Flor­ence, Italy, ^^Tites: "I have a delight­ful villa on the hillside of Fiesolana, above Florence. Plan to spend the Summer after June, on the Italian Riviera and also do-a walking trip, a kind of pilgrimage to Assisi." 
"A little dope about some of the boys you may not have heard of for awhile. . . DUKE CLANCY is man­ager of a broadcasting station in Grand Rapids, Mich. I forget the name of the station. ED POLHAUS' is still with Robert C. Graham, in Florida, since the first of the year. RALPH HEGER is manager of the Graham-Paige factory branch in Nashville, Tenn. 
"Best regards, Jim . . . and I hope to see you in June. EL MAHONEY, '26." 
1926 Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, 38 N. IZth St. Newark, N. J., Secretary. 
TO BE PRESENT: JIM PEAR­SON, GEORGE HARTNETT, BOB CAREY, TY BULGER, FATHER . BEBNIE COUGHLIN, JAY MASE­NICH, DR. BERT COUGHLIN, BILL DOOLEY, FRANK KLEIN, MILES RYAN, MAURY WELSH, PAUL JOHNSON, JIM RONAN, DON TROMBLEY, FATHER KENNA, CLAUDE PITSENBERGER, CHAS. MASON, BEN MAHANK, EARL ANTOINE, VIC YAWMAN, BUD BABR, JOHN GALLAGHER, JOHN CONTWAY, PAUL BENANTE, ART SUDER, FRANK MEKUS, JIM STEWART, IRVING HUKWICH, MIKE REDDINGTON, VINCE GOU­LET. DUCKY MILLER, EDDIE FALLON, DENNY O'NEIL, ART HALEY, ROGER NOLAN, CHAS. MAKGUET, TOM FARRELL, JACK ADAMS, JIM WALDRON, JAKE PURCELL, JIM SILVER, KERNAN WINGEBTER, DICK PURCELL, EDDIE BURKE, ED DUGGAN, DAN O'NEILL, FRANK McGEE, 

ED HAEGAN, TOM RYAN, TOM SHERIDAN, JIM WHELAN, "DOC" GELSON, JIM DWYER, TOM BURKE, BILL REID. 
REGRETS:IZZY PROBST, BILL FOOHEY , COYNE HATTON, VIC LEMMEE, BROTHER STANIS­LAUS, HERB EGGEET, VINCE SOISSON, KENNETH COOK. 
This is only a partial list of those who will be with us at Reunion. Sev­eral have promised me verbally to be there and in these hurried moments I am omitting their names. There will be another list before you go to press, Jim. 
JIM PEARSON, who is practising law in Flint, Michigan, wrote a very fine note promising to bring four or five of the boys from his section. . . . GEORGE HARTNETT, the Chicago peanut vender, writes a delightful letter vouching for the Chicago crowd. . . . HERB BURT, who spends most of his time touring Illinois, acts the part of Winchel! for GAIL BUR­NETT, who, I thought, was lost in the quake. There has been no word from Gail, but I believe he will be present on the fifth. . . . BILL DOO­LEY reports that FRANK KLEIN is firmly established in the newspaper business in Peoria and that he is the father of a fine young son. . . . CLAUDE PITSENBERGER is bring­ing a "babe" to reunion with him— his daughter. . . . ^^C YAWMAN and Mrs. "Yaw," are coming. . . . JOHN CONTWAY, of the Boy Guid­ance group, fellow laborer in secre­tarial work, is making the trip all the way fi-om New Haven. 
KENNETH COOK sends his re­grets from Montreal, but has promised to drink a toast to the class on Re­union night. . . . VINCE SOISSON, still working in Scottdale, Pa., may not be .able to make Reunion. . . . HERB EGGERT must be in New Mexico over that week-end and that's that for Herb. We'll miss him. . . . VIC LEMMEE vrrites "NO" from Ironwood, but I hope that that is not final. . . . IZZY PROBST is working in the claim department of the House of Representatives in Washington and they're too busy down there to allow him respite. 
WATTS EICHER, who is now in New York and whom I see frequently, tells me that FRANK BON is secre­tary to Senator Carey of Wyoming. Although I haven't heard from Frank, I do hope that he will be able to steal away from the Senator and be with us in June. WATTS also tells me about another one of our class who will not be with us in June—EDDIE MASSART (Father Eddie Massart) who has given his all to the natives of Bengal, India. 
This, Jim, is in the nature of a pre­liminary report. There will be more bits later. JERRY. . 
A special request comes from Chi­cago to "give JIM WHELAN a call and tell him to be at the reunion." 

JOSEPH NAV.A.RRE writes this: "The letterhead carries the news. I am no longer in Muskegon. These days find me polishing the ladder rounds near the bottom. It is a great life. (The letter-head reads: JO­SEPH A. NAVARRE, JR., Lawyer, Monroe, Mich.) Joe promises to get the boys in Monroe together some of these days. Here's hoping! 
BILLY MOORE is now one of Gov­ernor White's Secretaries. Bill had an itching for politics, as all South­erners, so we are glad he has a start like this. 
And just as we are about to leap lightly to the 1927 Class Notes, comes another letter from Secretary Jerr>\ More news of the Reunion: My dear Jim: 
Word has just come from CLEM CROWE that he will be present for Eeunion . . . NORB ICAVANAUGH can't definitely promise to be with us, but he is hoping for a "windfall" and a chance to come East. Norb is in the practice of Law with his Dad, Judge Kavanaugh in Portland . . . JOE WAGNER writes from Tiffin, Ohio, that the soft drink game is so good in June he doubts very much if he will be able to attend Reunion. 
These, Jim, are the substance of replies received thus far. 0, yes, BEN BOURNE is coming to Reunion from Phillipsburg, N, J. He'll be along, and the Jersey and New York group whom I am trying to organize to make the trip in a special car. (Ed's note: Hope that Ben won't break a leg getting in any windows this trip.) 
I'm waiting for you, Jim. (An­other Ed.'s note: And who isn't? Haven't had time to write to anybody for so long that "my public" is just a memory.) 
WATTS EICHER sends in this: "Perhaps you know that JOE EYAN, Jack Cannon's old roommate in Lyons Hall, is busy burying the dead from his father's undertaking home at 403, 
E. Broad St., Columbus. Joe is the 
one who pro\ided Jack's entre to the , prison fire in Columbus last year." 
1927 
Ed DeClerq, Secretary 8126 Drexel Blvd, Chicago, III. 
"-A.nother of the '27 crowd shows up," according to WATTS EICHER. "CHARLIE "FUZZY" McDERMOTT, of -Allentown left a note at the Hotel (Washington, D. C.) night before last asking why we were not home. We are very sorrj' that we missed him. I must have been sitting in the lobby when he called." (Ed.'s Note: Just an old Eicher Custom) "In the note Charlie said he was returning from Miami and had stopped off at 
Raleigh to see CLIPPER SMITH who gave him our address. 
HERBERT J. BRAUN, who hailed from Aurora, 111., when he finished his M.E. course at the University four years ago, has located in Ore­gon, 111., as a member of the staff of the Paragon Kol-Master corpora­tion. The Rock River Valley-N. D. Club gains another active member. 
It is rumored that BILL COYNE joined the stag line of "lone wolves" at the Senior Ball. Of course it couldn't be on account of the new top coat! 
1928 
Louis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind., 
Secretary. I became desperate because of lack of news so decided to send the fol­lowing chain letter to one '28 man from each of the Colleges of Notre Dame: Notre Dame, Ind. March 14th, 1931. Dear Classmate: I suppose you realize from the size of the '28 column in the Alumnus that the Class of '28 is drifting apart. Everyone evidently leaves it up to the other fellow to write with the result that there is little news. Now here is my plan to get the "dope" without much efi'ort for anyone. It will cost you a stamp and about two minutes of your time. This chain letter was started on its way by your newsless Class Secre­tary. A copy was sent to one '28 man from each of the colleges in the Uni­versity. You being from the Law School are to fill in the information asked for and pass it on to some other '28 LL. B. man who has not already received it. In case you don't have the address of any, send the let­ter back to me and I will keep it on it's way. Will the person having this letter in his possession on May 1 please return it to me so that I can publish it in the Alumnus and again continue it on its way. Be sure to put return address on your letter so that the dead, letter office will not break the chain. Thanking you for your immediate coopei-ation in this matter. Yours in '28. LOUIS BUCKLEY. 
Your note should include the fol­Io\\ing information: 1. Your present home address. 2. What you are doing. Name of firm, etc. 3. If married, the date and maiden name of your wif-:. 
4. How many children? 5. Will you be back for our reunion in 1933? 6. -4.ny other news that might interest the gang. 
I received the following return from the letter sent to the la^vyers: 
CYPEIAN A. SPORL, Jr., 6550 Oakland Drive, New Orleans, La.; vice-president of C. A. Sporl Inc., 

Due to the requests for the followinir pic­tures, we take this opportunity of irivinff the Alumni the necessarj' information: 
1. Rockne—composite as shown by the cut or sinprle. Funeral services at the Sacred Heart 
Church. Individuals of any N. D. players. .First "elevens" of any year. 

Air View of Campus. (The above pictures are 7 x 11 inches.) 
Price $ .75 each 
2.
 Monotrram winners with coaches (1929, 1930) 7 X 17 inches $1.00 each 

3.
 Squad—any year, 7 x 24 inches..$1.00 each 


Make all orders payable to "Notre Dame Pictures," Notre Dame, Indiana. 


\ i V^^'^\ 
608 Whitney Bldg., New Orleans. Not married. Would like very much to be back for lawyers' reunion but am not sure that I could make it. Would like to stage a bridge tournament bet^veen ED McGUIEE, ED McCLAR-NON,DICKQUINLIN, EUBE MOM­SEN, STEVE WOZNIAK, BOB MOHLMAN and self. 
EDWARD F. McCLARNON, 2024 Coventry, Detroit, Mich. Practicing law. Claim Dept., The Travelers Ins. Co., Union Gardian Bldg. I was married Oct. 10, 1928, to Lucile >Ees­ner, from old South Bend (results of off campus life). We have one child, Helen Mary, who is nine months old. I have hopes of attending the Law reunion. Did you note CYP SPORL'S answer? He must want to play with QUINLAN. I knew business was bad. Good luck to you all. BERT HAV­ERN is with me and will continue this letter. 
BERT HAVERN, 9810 Lawton Ave., Detroit. I am retired at pres­ent. Am not married. I hope to be back for the reunion. There are a lot of things I know the gang would be interested in but we'll leave that out. The last time I was in South Bend the Dean gave me a friendly slap on the back. 
To that old gang of ours: When these notes are complete I hope that someone wU have them mimeographed and send a copy to your truly—RUBE MOMSEN, 1501 Maguffin Ave., El Paso, Texas. I am practicing law with the firm of Norcopp & Momsen, in El Paso, Texas. I am not married but it may not be long. I am not certain that I will be at the reunion but would like to. Three years since we left Notre Dame and I haven't seen one of you. Many times since graduation my heart has ached for a good old get-together meeting with the Lawyers of '28. Sorry, SPORL, but since everyone is playing contract, I Infuse to enter that bridge tourna­ment. But if you make it a bull ses­sion, 0. K. Good luck and prosperity to all of you. 
B. P. (GENERAL) WOOD, 227 Washington Ave., Santa Fe, N. Mex. Hi, fellows! How's things? At pres­ent am a file closer in the rear ranks of the unemployed army. Quit prac­ticing law in Nov. 1929. I was mar­ried December 24, 1928. We have one boy, Steven Patrick, seven months. If I can rob the First of Santa Fe, I'll be there. Rock's death like to laid me out. Would like to see the old crew once more. If any of you come through the city look me up and I will do my best. 
FRED RUIZ, 111, Fifteenth Ave., So., Nampa, Idaho. I am teaching in high school. I was married June 2nd, 1929, to Clotilde Fountain, of Mesilla, New Mexico. We have one ^rl. It will be impossible to be back for the re­union. Now that I am beginning to emerge from the debris of those glori­ous castles I built back in good old Notre Dame (God bless her). I say to those boys with whom I used to enjoy so many legal tangles for the preservation of the State or in de­fense of the accused, that I want to wish them all an honest and a bril­liant success. And to the bachelors of this distinguished Exodus, I want to say: "Come on in, the water's fine." 

The following letter was returned to me from the Commerce men on May 1st, with the following notes: 
HOWARD PHALIN, 107 Ward Pkwy, Kansas City, Mo. Sales mana­ger for Midland Press, 150 Diesbs Bldg Married to Evangeline Peter­son of Minneapolis, Minn., on Janu­ary .17, 1931. Will be back for reunion in 1933. 
KIRWIN J. WILLIAMS, 105 E. Rosenwood, San Antonio, Texas. Am working for the Parker Corporation of Boston, Mass., but locally, Wheeler, Gill & Lewis, distributors for In­corporated Investors stock, sixth floor of the Moore Bldg. I -will be back for the reunion and expect to be in South Bend this summer, as I will be sent to Des Moines, Iowa, as i-epre­sentative of San Antonio Junior Chamber of Commerce. Not married. I think it is a great idea of yours, Lou, 
and I hope that the chain will not be 
broken. 
JOE J. HEBERT, 1692 Blanchette St., Beaumont, Texas. Selling rice for the Beaumont Rice Mills. No, Louie, I'm still the old eligible. About that reunion in '33. I'll be there. 
(To be continued next month. The Editor has had to omit a number of Kood letters this time, to his lasting surprise and regret.) 
1929 Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind., Secretary. 
BILL BRADLEY is with the Gould Pump Co., of Chicago; JOE IvRAKER is working in a bank at Akron, Ohio. He must be doing well for it is re­ported that Kraker will add an "And Company" to his name in the very near future. ANGE and GENE GALDIBINI are both in Mflwaukee. One is doing auditing, and the other is with an engineering firm. LEO LYNN'S hook-up in Chicago is with the Central Trust Co.; CHARLIE SCHLICtlART is selling for the Straus Bond & Mortgage House in Chicago; BOB TROTTER is deep in the interests of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co.; JOE SMI­TANKA has been politieianing for his father; We are sorry to report that he ran a close second for Mtinicipal Judge in the last election in Chicago. 
GEORGE DAPSON who has been do­ing quite a little iieroplane traveling is now in Buffalo. The job did not follow him. BERNIE BIRD is with a Rice Hilling Co., at Lake Charles, La., and JACK O'MALLEY is with the Charles Ringer Co., of Chicago. PRANK CROWE tells me, on his visit of last Saturday that his team at Sigumey, Iowa, won eight, and tied 
one f ooball game. Lost two, and won eighteen basketball games. He says the only trouble is the teaching is not so hot. 
Well, I guess this covers all the additions in the field, except that I had a very pleasant night's stay with JOE MULHALL in Owosso, Michi­gan. Joe operates the Mulhall-Erb Lumber Co., at Owosso. One of his father's holding. He tells me PAUL BERTSCH is in Akron, Ohio, and that LOUIS OBLIGATO is stumping "Roosevelt for President" over Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, and the eastern states. 
Best of luck, and good wishes. Most sincerely, James E. Digan, '29. 
JOE NASH, center of Notre Dame's 1929 national championship team, has been added to the football coaching staff of the DePaul univer­sity, according to announcement by James D. Kelly, athletic director. 

Mn all times of stress 

a strong anchor of safety 
Our 1930 Financial Statement 

shows this Company holding its usual strong position in Resources and Surplus Funds T 

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY^ 
OF BOSTON. MASSACHUSETTS 

Admitted Assets, December 31,1930 ... . $584,121,813.41 
Reserves and aU other Uabilities Surplus of Assets for Emergencies 
Income Received in 1930 Added to reserves during the year Paid to Policyholders . 
Total Paid Polieyholders in 68 Years 
Invested on Policyholders' Acconnt during the 
Year Dividends paid policyholders in 1930 . . . Reserve for policyholders' dividends ini 1931 . 
 541,320,308.97  42,801,504.44 
 154,381,579.65  35,007,828.00  75,121,420.00 
 681,561,755.00 
 82,300,519.03  18,620,863.25  20,220,000.00 

1930 

Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth Ave, New Kensington, Pa., Secretary. 
Somebody made a slip last month so here is a correction for our column. .A.USTIN GILDE.A. is the Justice of Peace in Elkhart and not RAY SJVN-DUSIvEY. Sanduskey is a member of of the Elkhart County Bar and is a married man now. 
JOE LORDI is working for the Universal Credit Service in New York —^After work Joe finds time to play handball at the New York Athletic Club, so he is all set for the baseball season to commence. 
John Reardon, an old member of our class, is in New York City to take a position. At present he is staying with DAN CANNON at 1038 Park Avenue. 
BOB MULHALL is going to Col­umbia and MAT .WARD is attending the Philadelphia Medical School. 


ALUMNI CLUBS 
(Continued from Pase 344) 

voted for monthly affairs similar to the one held Universal Night. Each meeting will be in the nature of a dinner-smoker. In all probability these will take place every first Monday of the month. The next affair is planned for the first week after the students get home, at which time a number of activities will be planned for the summer. 
George Sargus, secretai-y, writes: 

'The enthusiasm shown so far has exceeded all expectations. And, unless I am very sadly mistaken, we'll be doing things in a big way very short­ly. Most of the fellows last night were practically strangers to each other. But the strangeness lasted for about ten minutes only. After that, you'd think that they had known each other a lifetime. Our total member­ship, I believe, will total sixteen. 
"Well, Jim, are we officially recog­nized as a unit now? W. N. Hogan, '14, is president; Don Butler is rice-president, and I am the flunky, the secretary-treasurer. I can always be found here at the store, 2111 Belmont, Bellaire, Ohio. Sincerely yours, 
"GEORGE SARGUS, '28." 

The Editor wishes to assure the fel­lows that they ARE officially organ­ized now and extends congratulations and best wishes for a big season. 
YOUNGSTOWN 

A revised constitution and by-laws were adopted at the February meet­ing. The outstanding change in the new constitution is the combination of the offices of secretary and treasurer. Under the revised by-laws, new offi­cers will be elected at the meeting on Universal Notre Dame night. This meeting is set aside under the revised regulations as the annual meeting. 
The alumni co-operated with the Youngstown Club of Notre Dame in a highly successful dance the night after Christmas. 
Elaborate plans for the Easter Promenade of the Youngstown Notre Dame Club for Easter Monday night were dropped, and the dance called olf as a mark of resect to Knute Rockne. 
John R. Eliott, in charge of the Stambaugh Auditorium, where the dance was to have been held, immedi­ately returned the club's deposit, and tried to take over Whitey Kaufman's Orchestra in order to stage a public dance instead. The orchestra, how­ever, did not accept Mr. Elliott's offer, and no dance was held. 
Plans for a solemn high Mass for the repose of the soul of Knute Rockne were made at the annual meeting of the Youngstown Notre Dame Club, Monday night, April 20, at McWeb's. The Mass will be cele­brated Friday, May 1, at St. Ed­ward's Church, of which Rev. J. F. Maloney, former Notre Dame man, is pastor. 
Local Notre Dame men, sports fans and school children probably will re­ceive Holy Communion at this Mass, for Rockne. A group of the alumni also received Communion in a body Sunday, April 19,. at St. Columba's Church. 
President John J. Kane, '25, was re­elected. William Krider, '25, was elected vice president, and Norman Smith, '24, secretary-treasurer, at the meeting April 20. All elections were unanimous. 
President Kane appointed Paul Fleming, '28; John Moran, '27, and William Dunlevy, '30, as a ways and means committee. Plans were dis­cussed for a small informal dance early in the summer, to replace that cancelled because of Eockne's death. 
The meeting Notre Dame Night marked the first anniversary of the club's reorganization, under Kane's leadership. During the year, the club has met at least once a month, and there has been a good regular attend­ance. Some of the meetings have at­tracted about 25, and the average attendance has been well above half of that figure. 
The club has held one summer dance, assisted the student club in a very successful Christmas dance, and had arranged what bade fair to be a popular Easter prom for this spring. 
Dinner meetings are held the second Monday of each month. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA. Dear Jim: This Club received Communion in a body, for the repose of the soul of Knute K. Rockne, Easter Monday morning. It was a great turnout, Jim, as nearly every active member at­tended the Mass and received for 
"Rock." This Club will help anyone and everyone, in any way, to carry on. 
We also attended Mass and received Communion for Rockne, Sunday, April 19, 1931. This also was a splendid turnout, and proved that "Rock" will be remembered forever by his friends, all his former play­ers, and many of his schoolmates who reside in this territory. 
I am enclosing herewith our check, representing another donation to the Living Endowment Fund of Notre Dame. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was a huge success in Pittsburgh, Jim, and I feel sure that every Notre Dame man will carry on just a little bit harder now, because each one knows just how hard it will be for the men out at school. Sevei-al prom­inent men attended our Universal Night Dinner held in the Blue Room of the William Penn Hotel, Monday night, April 20, 1931. Among the speakers of the evening were Clarence "Buddy" Overend, graduate manager of Carnegie Tech; Judge John A. Egan, who, by the way, was the referee of last year's Notre Dame-Pitt game; and the Reverend J. J. Callahan, President of Duquesne Uni­versity. 
Leo Schneider, Class of '28, brought his movie camera with him, and really Jim, he is one first-class camera-man. He had many pictures of the Campus, several good shots of the Navy game of last year, and some very good pictures of several members of the faculty. 
Just a few more lines, Jim, and I'll be through for some time. At our last meeting the officers for the coming year were elected. The names and ad­dresses of the new officers are: 
President, James S. Devlin, 7741 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa.; vice-president, John C. Sheedy, 55440 Bryant St., Pittsburgh, Pa.; treasurer, James L. O'Toole, Jr., 706 Plaza Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
GEORGE KINGSLEY, JR. 
The Editor received a recent letter from James O'Toole, the new secre­tary of the Club, calling his attention to the fact that Western Pennsylva­nia was omitted from the map of Notre Dame Clubs which appeared in the April ALUMNUS. The Office of­fers humble apologies to the Club. The omission was unintentional. 
Jim O'Toole also calls our attention to the Club activities scheduled for the near future. Jim says: "On the bill for May are a golf tournament and dinner and a hard-times dance, the latter under the auspices of the Corby Subway Literary and Duck-hunting Society. Regular weekly luncheons continue as heretofore, Thursdays at 12:15, McCreery's. Wood St., Pittsburgh." 






