The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
TrfE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
not to tj, » Librarj 
U.N.D. Night April 15 

The University Library 
Vol. 18 APRIL, 1940 No. 6 
Tuition and General Fees For the Schoolyear 1940-41 
FOR STUDENTS LIVING IN: 

Carroll Hall (common dormitory) . $726.00 Breen-Phillips Hall (double rooms) _ $780.00 to 816.00 Cavanaugh Hall (single and double rooms) _ 798.00 to 870.00 Zahm Hall (single and double rooms) :. 798.00 to 870.00 
These halls are for freshmen only. Halls for upperclassmen fall within these price ranges. The amounts are payable half in September and half in January. 

WHAT THE STUDENT RECEIVES: Miscellaneous Fees Deposits 
Instruction (tuition); board in the Uni­
(For Classroom and Laboratory Supplies) 
versity dining halls; lodging; laundry; 
medical attention; dispensary and in­First Second Third Fourth Fifth College or Department Year Tear Tear Tear Tear Total 
firmary service; use of general and de­partmental libraries; admission to all 
Arts and Letters ? 5 $ 5 ? 5 ?15 ? 30 
Commerce 5 5 5 15 30 
lectures, concerts and entertainments 
Law 5 15 15 35 ater); admission to all athletic contests Physical Education 35 20 25 40 120 at Notre Dame; use of the gymnasium, Science 40 65 55 60 220 athletic fields, the Rockne fieldhouse, Civil Engineering 60 50 45 75 230 and the University golf course; sub­Mechanical Engineering 60 80 50 60 250 scription to "The Scholastic," the Uni­Electrical Engineering 60 70 40 60 230 versity news weekly; and a copy of Architecture 5 20 20 25 30 100 "The Dome," the University year-book, Mining Engineering 60 25 55 30 170 in the second, semester. Chemical Engineering 60 85 30 75 250 Metallurgy 60 75 120 35 290 Aeronautical Engineering 60 40 40 70 210 
in Washingtori Hall (the University the­
These deposits arc based on estimates, hence any differences are adjustable at the For the student residing at home in close of the schoolyear. 
South Bend or vicinity the tuition and general fee is $316.00 the year, which Estimated Cost of Textbooks and Stationery Supplies entitles him to all the items listed 
Books, stationery, clothing, and other articles for sale on the above except board, lodging, and laun­campus must be paid for in cash as purchased. dry. If confined in the infirmary, the 
First Second Third Fourth Fifth Sixth 
day student pays $12.00 a week for Course s In Tear Tear Tear Tear Tear Tear Total lodging and meals. College of Arts and Letters: Fine Arts, Music, 
and Journalism _. ?30 $30 $30 $30 $120 Physical Education 35 30 30 30 125 Other courses 25 25 30 30 110 
A deposit of $10.00 should accom­
College of Commerce 30 30 35 35 130 pany each application; $5.00 of which College of Law: is for academic registration and $5.00, Pre-law: Arts 25 25 30 80 room deposit. If the applicant be Pre-law: Commerce 30 30 35 .._„„ „ 95 
""To" 60 170 

accepted, his deposit is credited on his 
College of Science 25 25 30 35 115 
account; if he be rejected, the deposit 
College of Engineering: 

is refunded. In case he cancel his appli­
Architecture 45 25 30 35 35 170 
cation or fail to attend the University 
45 25 35 35 140 
during the semester for which applica­Mechanical _'.. 45 35 30 30 140 
tion is made this deposit is retained by A&onautical ;.„_ 45 35 45 55 180 45 40 30 25 140 
the University to cover the clerical ex­
Electrical _. 45 35 45 30 155 
pense involved, except that the $5.00 
Mining .. 45 40 30 20 135 
room deposit may be refunded if the Metallurgy 50 25 30 20 125 student notifies the Registrar of cancel­Engineering • Drawing 20 5 25 lation on or before August 31st. 
For further information please write to Robert B. Riordan, '24, Registrar. 
(Early application by prospective freshmen is urged. Only a limited number of freshmen can be accomodated.) 




The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published monthly from October to Jane, inclusive (except January), by the Vniveraity of Notre Dama; Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second claas matter October 1, 1939, at the Fostoffica, Notra Dame, Indiana, tmder tha act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
JAMES EL ARMSTRONG, "25, Editor; WILUAM R, DOOLEY, 76, Managing Editor 
Vol. 18. APRIL, 1940 No. 6. 
17th Universal Notre Dame Night April 15 
National Broadcast Through Facilities Mutual 
System to Provide Unifying Program Emanat­
ing from Notre Dame Club of Detroit—CKLW 
Twenty thousand Notre Dame men, several hundred thousand members of their families, and several million friends of Notre Dame, will join in uni­versal, world-wide tribute to Notre Dame on Monday Night, April 15, the 

- Seventeenth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Participation of the large number of friends of the University is made pos­sible by the cooperation of the Mutual Broadcasting System. From Station CKLW, Detroit-Windsor outlet of the Mutual chain, a coast-to-coast broad­cast of the key program sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, will bring to Notre Dame admirers every­where the voices of the President of the University, Eev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C; Elmer P. Layden, director of athletics; the University Glee Club; and, as special guests, the former president of Notre Dame, Most Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D.; William J. Cameron, nationally 
famous spokesman of the Ford Hour; and Harry Kelly, Notre Dame alumnus, secretary of state of Michigan, and mas­ter of ceremonies for. the Detroit party. 
The national broadcast will be from 

8:30 to 9:00 Eastern Standard Time, which is 7:30 to 8:00 Central Standard, 
6:30 to 7:00 Mountain Standard and 
5:30 to 6:00 Pacific Standard. This year, the various Clubs have an unusual ad­vantage in tying in the national broad­cast with dinner meetings, without breaking into the individual Club pro­grams. 
And that, of course, inti-oduces the very vital theme of all Universal Nights, that the Clubs—92 of them this year— have local opportunities to supplement the national program which can be made a highlight of Club activity, and a defi­nite stride ahead in the Club commun­itj' for Notre Dame. This was the thoiight behind the institution of Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night in 1924, under the leadership of John H. Neeson, '03, Philadelphia, then president of the Alumni Association. Notre Dame reached a high peak of public acclaim in the spoi-ts press in the Fall—in 1923 it was the Four Horsemen. The far-sighted alumni of that era, knowng that Notre Dame represented much more than ath­letics, adopted this idea of a Night, lo­cated at the opposite seasonal period from football, on which, universally and simultaneously, the other attributes of Notre Dame — spiritual, cultural, academic, social — might be refreshed for alumni and called to the attention of increasing numbers of friends. 
This has been done vividly, by an intensive development of Local Clubs, and by the generous cooperation of radio, both national hook-ups and local stations. 
Clubs are again asked to contact local 
W. J. Cameron 

radio stations, and many have already done so, to permit the broadcast of local programs, which though local talent and Local Club identity, can mean more in some approaches than the chain broad­cast. The .iVlumni Ofiice will be pleased again to furnish suggestions for these local broadcasts. 
Campus speakers are, as always in demand. Many Clubs have already made arrangements and many localities will enjoy the privilege and the refreshing contact of a speaker direct from the campus which the Night honors. 
The several sets of films which are available for Club showing have long since been booked, and movies will add to the enjoyment of Clubs from coast to coast. 
The -AJumni Office has been increas­ingly; appreciative of the serious ap­proach to the great possibilities of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night by the Clubs. 
Much is left to be desired.. Limited finances is perhaps the number one bug­bear. Many Clubs would like to import speakers, invite numbers of local guests, and charge members a modest price. The combination is difficult to achieve. Nor can the Association or the University afford the increasing tax involved in sending speakers, films, etc., for the Night gratis. 
Happily, in this regard, a fine Notre Dame spirit among faculty members has brought about a middle ground in which many Clubs obtain excellent campus representatives by simply defraying act­ual expenses of travel. 
Similarly, local initiative has done much to bridge the gap. between the production of local programs, particu­larly radio, and the cooperation for such production which the Alumni- Office would like to give, and in no far distant 
(Continued on Page 190) 

Gen. Hugh A . Drum Laetare Medalist 
Is Third Outstanding Militarist To Receive Traditional Honor 
Lieutenant General Hugh A. Drum, of the United States Army, was the 1940 recipient of the Laetare Medal, bestowed annually since 1883 by the University upon an outstanding member of the Catholic laity. 
Selection of General Drum marks the third time in the 58-year history of the award that an outstanding military fig­ure has been chosen for the honor, re­garded as the highest a Catholic layman can receive in the United States. Gen­eral John Newton was awai-ded the medal in 1886, and General William S. Eosecrans was named ten years later. 
In announcing the name of the medal­ist, traditionally made known on the fourth Sunday of Lent, Father Hugh O'Donnell, president of the University, paid him the following tribute: 
"The Laetare Medal for the year 1940 is Awarded to Lieutenant General Hugh Aloysius Drum, com­mander of the Second Corps Area, at Governors' Island, New York. 
"General Drum has had a distin­guished career as soldier, having been decorated for gallantrj' in both the Spanish-American and the World Wars. Moreover, his genius in war is equalled only by his bril­liant leadership in peace. The Uni­versity of Notre Dame welcomes him to the honor roll of Catholic men and women who have added glory to the Church in the United States." 
General Drum has been in active service since receiving his first commis­sion as a second lieutenant in 1898. Since that time he has seen service suc­cessively in the Spanish-American War, in the Philippine Islands, on the Mexi­can border and in the World War. 
General Drum inherited the military tradition having been bom at Fort Brady, Mich., September 19, 1879, the son of Captain John Drum and Margaret (Desmond) Drum. He was educated at Boston College and in United States Army schools. 
During the Mexican trouble preced­ing the declaration of the World War, General Drum was chief of staff to Gen­eral Funston and subsequently served as chief of staff under General Pershing in France. Since that time he has seen sen'ice successively as Chief of the Army School of the Line, Commander of coast and air defenses of the Second Corps Area, Assistant Chief of Staff of the Army, Inspector General of the United States Army, Commander of the Hawai­ian department. Commander of the 6th 
Lt. Gen. Hugh A. Drum 
Corps Area and 2nd Army. In 1939 he was made Lieutenant General and placed in command of the 2nd Corps Area. 
General Drum's militarj' decorations seem to coincide with each step in his long career. He was awarded the Silver Star for "gallantry in action" in the Philippines, and since that time has mer­ited the following recognitions: the D.S.M., commander of Legion of Honor and Croix de Guerre with two palms (France) and commander Order of the Crown (Belgium and Italy). 
In Catholic and civic circles the name of the General has long been associ­ated with the highest standards of reli­gious and civic endeavor. In each of his peace-time appointments General Drum has been identified with broad programs for civic betterment and the simplicity of his religious attitude has endeared him to the rank and file of his military associates. Chaplains who served with him during his years of active duty called attention of the Laetare Medal committee to the fact that General Drum • at all times insisted upon attending Mass and other religious services with the enlisted personnel. 
Given by Notre Dame as a recognition of merit and as an incentive to greater achievement, the Laetare Medal award originated in the ancient papal custom of bestowing the Golden Rose on a mem­ber of the Italian Catholic nobility on Laetare Sunday. Its modern counter­part was inaugurated at Notre Dame in 1883 when the Veiy Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., University founder, be­stowed the first medal on the late John 
Gilmary  Shea,  eminent Catholic  his­ 
torian.  
Last  year's  recipient  was  Miss"  

Josephine Brownson of Detroit, Mich. Medalists of previous years " include prominent statesmen, artists, writers, financiers, soldiers, scientists, architects, philosophers, jurists, orator's and econo­mists. Among recent recipients are Dr. Irvin Abel], ex-President of the Ameri-• can Medical Association; Dr. Jeremiah 
D. M. Ford, chairman of the Romance Languages Department of Haii-ard Uni­versity; Mr. Richard Reid, editor of the Catholic News of New York City: Dr. Albert Zahm, occupant of the Guggen­heim chair of aeronautics in the Con­gressional Library; John McCormack. singer; the Hon. Alfred E. Smith; Mar­garet Anglin, actress; and Elizabeth Nourse, artist. 
Presentation of the medal to Genei-al Dram, the 58th recipient, •n'ill take place at some future date not yet determined. 
PRESS CLUB DINNER 
The Notre Dame Press Club held its annual dinner on March 12. Malcolm 
W. Bingay, editorial director of the Detroit Free Press, was the principal speaker. Mr. Bingay was introduced by 
•f 
Father Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, presi­dent of the University, who compliment­ed Dr. John Cooney, head of the journal­ism department, for his outstanding work. 
Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C, was the toastmaster. Students on the pro­gram were Robert I. Howard of Rich­mond, Va., president of the Press Club; John and Thomas Femeding of Dayton, Ohio, the identical twins of the campus, who put on a clever skit; and Fructuoso Barreda, South Bend, who did an admir­able job in presenting the student view­point on modem journalism. Paul Foley, '37, Detroit, former Scholastic boss, ac­companied Mr. Bingay and discussed the "old days" for the journalistic crop about to be harvested. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Balfe, Eichenlaub Lead '40 Slates 
Nominating Committee Give Association Excellent 
Choices for All Offices, and Honor Group of Able, 
Active Alumni; Ballots to be Mailed by May I 
Tip-off of the successful attention 

given to the nominations for 1940-41 officers of the Alumni Association by the Committees lies in the selection of the Honorary President. Both Commit­tees, (a) Daniel Shouvlin, John Hurley and Eugene O'Toole, and (b) Joseph R. Farrell, Daniel E. CougUin and M. Emmett Walter, were promptly unani­.mous in the selection of Very Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, '99, Provin­cial of the Congregation of Holy Cross 
for the United States. 

For Honorary President 

Father Steiner, C.E. '99, went through Notre Dame as a popular lay student. He was a monogram man in basketball; was a member of band and orchesti-a; a singer in the University choir, and won the EUsivorth-Hughes Medal. Followang graduation. Father Steiner practiced en­gineering until 1911. He returned to Notre Dame as a lay teacher, finally entering the Congregation. He was or­dained in 1918. His background was invaluable in the development of the College of Engineering, of which he was the Dean until his election as Provincial. And he has also been a vital factor in the physical development of the Univer­sity, supervising the heavy engineering problems occasioned by the large num­ber of buildings. Always genial, enjoy­ing the fellowship of alumni at Com­mencement, one of the priests who worked closely with Father O'Hara in the program of the prefect of religion. Father Steiner has a host of friends among alumni, including many outside the field of engineering. 

For President 

(Constitutionally, candidates for of­fice are listed alphabetically.) 
John T. Balfe, Ph.B. Commerce '20, has contributed a record in New York to which a Catholic college alumni asso­ciation can point with pride. He has, since returning from South America in 1923, been actively progressing in his profession, insurance. He has raised a lovely family, being sometimes called the Eddie Cantor of the New York Club. He has been active from the first in the Notre Dame Club of New York, serving as president, director and chairman of key committees. In its serious phases, scholarships, placement, etc., he has been invaluable. .A.nd he has been an able, honored Notre Dame representa-

NOMINATIONS FOR I940-'4I 
HONORARY PRESIDENT REV. THOMAS STEINER, C.S.C, '99 Notre Dame, Indiana 
PRESIDENT BALFE, JOHN T., '20 New York City EICHENLAUB, RA.Y J., '15 Columbus, Ohio 
FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT BKOUSSARD, CLYDE E., '13 Beaumont, Texas MCDONALD, DONNELLY P., '12 Ft. Wayne, Ind. 
SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT BAILEY, E . BRADLEY, '23, Philadelphia, Pa. BYRNE, THOMAS F., '28 . ICleveland, Ohio 
DIRECTOR (4-Year 'Term) DUNCAN, WALTER J., '12 LaSalle, 111. MOONEY, WILLIAM J. JR., '15 Indianapolis, Ind. 
tive in the work of the National Catho­lic Alumni Federation. He is at present, head of the Centre, Catholic Club of leading laymen in New York City. 
Ray J. Eichenlaub, B. Arch. '15, is not unlike John Balfe in his career. Also in insurance, Eich has contributed to Co­lumbus, Ohio, to the Notre Dame Club there, to Notre Dame, and to a growing field of endeavor, a fine record of unsel­fish service. He, too, has raised a sub­stantial family, five boys offering attrac­tive offset to John's girls. Eich was one of Notre Dame's great athletes, and has withstood the great players who have flooded the campus since his time to rank still among the University's grid­iron immortals. With Don Hamilton, he still keep this old love in the capacity of referee, being registered successfully in that difficult Job in the midwest con­ferences. 
Both candidates represent a high type of alumnus, with adequate business suc­cess deepened and rounded out by the richer things which we like to associate with a Notre Dame background. 
For First Vice-President 

This year, the first vice-president has been charged with some attention to the Association's financial program. Either candidate on the proposed slates is ad­mirably qualified to foster this trend. 
Clyde E. Broussard, '13, Beaumont, Texas, is the youthful, aggressive "pa­triarch" of a family of girls and boys whose Notre Dame-St. Mary's history is a source of pride to both schools. Clyde is one of the combination Prep-College alumni, which means a rare familiarity with Notre Dame traditions, and per­sonnel. 
Donnelly P. McDonald, '12, Fort Wayne, Ind., has been an active Notre Dame alumnus there, reflecting in his banking business, in his Notre Dame Club activity, in his active work as a leading Catholic lajrman, his representa­tive Notre Dame qualities. 
Strangely, both Clyde and Donnelly share a certain tendency to stay out of 
(Continued on Page 193) 

182 The Notre Dame Alumnus 




UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS 
QPONSORED AGAIN by the active 
Villagers, the annual testimonial banquet for the basketball squad was held in the Oliver Hotel on March 11. The highlight was the election of Eddie Eiska, '41, of Chicago, as captain of next year's team to succeed Mark Ertel, '40, of Tipton, Ind. 
Wilfrid Smith, sports writer for the Chicago Tribune, was the toastmaster. He presented the following impressive array as speakers: Harry S. Driggs, ex. '24, South Bend city controller; Paul 
D. Hinkle, Butler basketball coach; Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '23 vice-presi­dent of the University; Adolph Eupp, Kentucky basketball coach; Elmer Lay-den, '25, director of athletics; Eoundy Coughlin, sports columnist, Wisconsin State Journal; Jack Ledden, sports edi­tor. South Bend Tribune; and George Keogan, the daddy of Notre Dame basketball. 
Richard Alberts, president of the Villagers, presided. Warren Deahl was the general chairman of the banquet, and the following Villagers assisted him: John Lane, tickets; Robert Fank­boner, program; Larry Myers, dinner; Robert Uhl, place; Dallas Slilem, pub­licity; and Richard Willerain, decora­tions. 
Frank Miles, president of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, and many other alumni cooperated fully with the Villagers. Basketball coaches and teams of the high schools in South Bend and Mishawaka %vere guests at the banquet through the willingness and generosity of a large group of alumni. This group included: James Ash, George 
N. Bearaer, William L. Benitz, James I. Boland, Paul M. Butler, Daniel A. Clark, Leo L. Cook, Arthur J. Diedrich, Joseph 
F. Donahue, M. Edward Doran, Al. Doyle, Orson Dausman, Russell H. Dow­ney, Harry S. Driggs, W. Howard Ed­wards, Allen M. Foley, R. A. Goepfrich, Clarence W. Harding, Loren Hess, Aaron H. Huguenard, Edward P. Krei­mer, Carl Kemps, Jasper H. Lawton, Jay R. Masenich, Bernard J. McCaffrey, Joseph J. McCaffrey, Al McGann, Ed­ward J. Meehan, James R. Meehan, Frank IDles, Eugene F. Noon, Joseph 
W. Nyikos, John F. Oelhoffen, Dillon J. Patterson, R. Otto Probst, Joseph W. Quinlan, Leo P. Rieder, George A. Schock, R. Floyd Searer, Norman Sham­bleau, William F. Sheehan, John W. Schindler, Bernard J. Voll, William E. Voor, and Leo Van Tilbury. 

"DEV. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, presi­
dent of the University, gave one of the principal addresses at the annual meeting of the Irish Fellowship Club of Chicago, on March 17. The Alumni Glee Club of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, in its first public appearance, contributed a group of enthusiastically received songs to the program. Daniel 
E. Hilgartner, Jr., president of the Alumni Association, and James E. Arm­strong, alumni secretary, were two of the many Notre Dame representatives in the audience. 
On the same afternoon, from Station WGN in Chicago, the Glee Club of the University (students), broadcast a pro­gram of Irish songs over the nationwide chain of the Mutual Broadcasting Sys­tem. 
"DROTHER LEO, C.S.C, 71 years old, 
nationally known as supervisor of the Notre Dame Farm of the University, has returned to his office after spending several weeks in St. Joseph's hospital, South Bend, following an automobile accident in South Bend. Brother Leo suffered a fractured skull and other injuries and for a time was in a critical condition. 
A BRANCH of the Institute of the 

• 
^ Aeronautical Sciences has been formed at Notre Dame, with Prof. P. 

N.
 M. Brown,, head of the Department of Aeronautical Engineering, serving as present chairman. John A. MacLean, instructor in aeronautical engineering, presided at the organization meeting, at which Prof. Brown read a paper on "The Early History of Flight." 

•DECENT
 WASHINGTON HALL lec­


turers included Dr. J. H. Matthews, of the University of Wisconsin, authority on crime and the scientific detection of criminals, who spoke on "The Use of Scientific Methods in the Identification of Criminals"; George S. Kendall, world traveler and archeologist, who assisted at the opening of King Tutankhamen's tomb; Rev. Hugo H. Hoever, O.Cist., of the University faculty who spoke on Teresa Neumann, the German peasant girl, whose body bears wounds corre­sponding to those of the Crucified. Fa­ther Hoever was present at one of 
Fraulein Neumann's ecstasies. 
Bom normal and healthy. Father Hoever said, the girl suffered a spinal" injury, became bedridden and later blind. She was cured of her blindness and a few months later walked again. In 1925 she again became ill but was cured on her way to the hospital. 
Toward the end of Lent, 1926, the ­42-year-old Bavarian woman received wounds in her feet and left side, similar to those of the crucified Christ. T^vo years later she received the wounds in her hands. 
From midnight every Thursday in Lent until 1 o'clock the following day she bleeds profusely from these wounds and apparently takes part in the passion of Christ, speaks in foreign tongues, and makes prophesies. Her head bears the marks of a crown of thorns and on her hack are wounds, as if made by a lash. Since September, 1927, she has taken no food but the Holy Euchorist and no liquid of any kind. 
Father Hoever reassured his listeners that Teresa Neumann is still alive, in spite of the widely circulated reports of her death last fall. 
TV/rOEE THAN 40 MIDWESTERN high 
schools and academies were to ex­hibit several hundred pieces of student art at the University's fifth annual Sec­ondary School art exhibition April 1 to April 15. 
The exhibit has won the praise of art critics in past years and annually attracts original paintings, drawings, creative and commercial designs from parochial and public schools throughout Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Illinois, and Wisconsin. The Notre Dame Pine Arts department, xmder the direction of Pro­fessor Stanley Scssler, is sponsoring the event. 
g^^^^^g^^^ 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Report Notre Dame Man's Gold Strike 
Alumnus Writes Story of Startling Discovery of Gold in Abandoned Georgia Mine by Former Notre Dame Minim, Major Graham Dugas 
By RAYMOND C. CUNNINGHAM, "25 
We all know the legend of the "pot of gold at the end of the rainbow," but here's the story of a man—a Notre Dame man—who found his life's efforts climaxed in a rainbow nestled on a real pot of gold that bids fair to making him one of the wealthiest men in the world. He rediscovered an abandoned gold mine in Georgia. 
But let's go back and begin at the be­ginning. About the turn of the century, Graham Dugas' grandmother sent him, as a youthful orphan, to Notre Dame, and placed him in St. Edward's Hall. Here he remained for five years, under the motherly eye of good old Sister Aloysins and the fatherly eye of Brother Cajetan. These two lovable characters who influenced the Major's early days, he associates TOth fond memories at Notre Dame. As a matter of fact, he recalls very vividly the day when he climbed to the dome to carve his initials, and is anxious to return to see if they are still engraved there. And he is wondering too, if Pat, the old gardener is still around beautifying the quadrangle? He also inquired about Sockalexis, the great baseball player of his days at Notre Dame. He is looking forward to this June when he plans to visit his first school. 
Out of college he was free to pur­sue his lifelong ambition to hunt for gold. Off to Mexico he traveled, where he prospected for some time. While there, between claim stakes, he be­came interested in aviation, and for a time served in the Mexican avia­tion service under Pancho Villa. When the World War was declared, he enlisted immediately in the aviation department, and was sent to Italy to help the allied cause. He was attached to the Caproni Division and was later decorated by the Italian Government in the Order of St. Maurice and St. Lazarus. 
But when the war was over, he re-, turned to America, and hurried back to Georgia to further pursue his quest for gold. And back he went to the old abandoned mine just 80 miles north of 
•Atlanta where many times he had dug 
around in worked-out claims in search of a new gold vein he was sure existed there somewhere. This old abandoned mine his history books told him was once worked by Cherokee Indians who used the precious metal in their barters with the early Spaniards who settled in the 
Moffet Studios Major Graham Dugas 
neighborhood of Tampa Bay. History even records that the great DeSoto knew of this mine and carried coins away from its shaft. He read in page after page how millions of dollars of the yel­low metal were taken from the once prosperous vein of the Dahlonega mine, and how even the famous South Caro­lina statesman John Calhoun took from it for himself over $2,000,000. Years lat­er Clemson, son-in-law of Calhoun, worked this mine, and was able to start Clemson College. But the adventure spirit in him would not let him rest where this mine was concerned; he had to satisfy himself that there was no more gold there. 
The name "Dahlonega," an old Indian name, formerly spelled "Tonenelka," meaning "yellow gold" fascinated him somehow. If the Indians were so much impressed by the quantity of the gold they found there to name the town after it, maybe there was even more gold around the Indians knew about but which the white man did not find. This would be his life's work to find out for himself. 

The 15 years that followed, were hard and tedious for the Major, digging here and there in and around the old shaft. Occasionally he would find a few small outcroppings of the metal, but never enough to pay for his trouble. Now and then he succeeded in interest­ing some friends to lend him some addi­tional money to enable him to continue his search. But each new attempt met OTth new failure. More friends, more money, more attempts, and more fail­ures. Again and again he tried and failed. Year after year he continued his quests ever dreaming of the day his efforts would be rewarded. 
Then, one day last November, on the 21st anniversary of the World War arm­istice, he uncovered the new vein of gold he had been seeking all those years. It was a vein twelve feet below the old "worked-out" one which state geologists say will net him ?60,000 a ton, much richer than the famous Comstock lode. The new vein runs parallel to the old vein for the same distance of 145 feet, down a 45 degree angle directly below the old shaft. It is estimated his discov­ery will bring him many millions. 
The Major has the mine and a few thousand surrounding acres sewed up on a twenty year lease for which he must pay but $3,000 a year, and no royalties. His corporation, is a closed one, with himself in sole command; but.he has permitted to share with him in his good fortune, those few loyal iriends who had faith in him and helped him financially through those long, lean years of pros­pecting.' AH the Major and his friends have to do now is sit back with black glasses on to keep the glitter of the gold from blinding them. 
The Major's brother, an author, also attended Notre Dame and his sister, Miss 
C. Dugas, was a student at St.' Mary's. She attained great heights in her profes­sion as a portrait painter and is now located in New York at the Gainsbor­ough studios. 
STUDENT NOTES 
(As president of the 1940 Senior Class, Harold Boisvert, Waterloo, N. Y., is singularly qualified to present student news and views to ALUMNTJS readers. A member of the Student Council and the happy possessor of a 92.11 average for seven semesters, able President Boisvert hopes to step off the campus into sales work. Prospective employers can reach him in 234 Walsh Hall.) 
AND IN THIS CORNER 
It was a blood-thirstj- crowd of Notre Dame men that turned out to witness the Ninth Annual Bengal Bouts in the Field-house, March 15. Fight Promoter Louis DaPra, East Chicago, Ind., and the staff of the Scholastic presented an unusual supply of fight talent that kept the audi­ence on their feet from the first s^ving in the pygmy division to the last decisive blow in the giant class. 
Handsome Billy Conn, light - hea%'y­weight champion of the world, proved the major attraction of the evening as honorary referee in the 175-pound finale. As a musical inspiration, Karl Hunn, ChiUicothe, Ohio, and Ws popular cam­pus orchestra presented music sweet and hot for a half hour before the bouts. 
In the 120-pound division, it was Ward Borley, South Bend boy, against Paul Malloy of Tulsa, Okla. Malloy by a technical knockout'. Bob Steele, Wil­mette. 111., won the 127-pound cro^vn by a decision over Martin Rock of Roberts, 
m. 
Sammy Dolce, of Chicago, of the windmill school of boxing, lost his 135­pound title to Sam Meyer, Blanchard-ville. Wis., in a fast and furious encoun­ter that proved one of the most popular of the evening. 
At 145-pounds, it was George Greene, Brooklyn boy, pitted against Rod Ma­guire of Canton, 111. Maguire success­fully defended his title with a technical knockout to his credit. Joe D'Ambrosio, brother of Lou Ambers, the Herkimer, 
N. Y., flash, came through in the third round of the 155-pound clash to take the decision from Bob Ronstadt, of Los Angeles. In the David and Goliath fight at 165 pounds, long, lanky Bill McGrath outboxed the short but determined little Millinocket, Maine, boy, Jess DeLois. 
In the 175-pound bout, Jerry Ryan, Susquehanna, Pa., sent Bruce Heben­streit, Albuquerque, N. Mex., back to his 

By Harold V. Boisvert, '40 
comer a very tired and defeated boxer. It was Louis Rymkus, of Chicago, over Bob Dowd, of Cleveland, by a technical knockout in the heavyweight division. Dowd, weighing 30 pounds less than Rymkus, made a good showing, but the superior weight and stamina of Rymkus proved too much for Dowd to handle. 
And the preliminary bouts which kept the boys away from their studying the first part of the week were just as ex­citing. There's plenty of material left among the underclassmen for hot and hard fighting next year. 
THE BAND PLAYS ON 
Professor Joe Casasanta during the Easter vacation led his boys on a new victory march through the East. Fifty men from the 100-piece football band, plus Karl Hunn and his orchestra made the trip. William Scully, baritone solo­ist from New Rochelle, N. Y., was the featured vocalist. 
The Band spent March 23 and 24 at the Hotel McAlpin in New York. It made appearances in Bridgeport, Conn., New Rochelle, N. Y., Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Hartford, Conn., and Milford, Mass. 
This was the first time in his 21 years at Notre Dame that Professor Joe made a concert tour in the East with his band. 
MAN ABOUT CAMPUS 
The hall-of-fame column of the Scho­lastic, "Man About Campus," has been re\-ived just lately after having been packed away in literary mothballs for the winter editions. Mize Morris, of Mexico, Mo., was given the laurels in the March 8 copy, while William Cos-grove "Cannonball" Kennedy, of Elmira, 
N. Y., was featured in the pre-Easter edition. Bob Tieman, Indianapolis, is doing a great job of sketching, and Ray Sadlier, New York actor and poet, is supplying the story in rhyme. 
Mexico, Mo., and Elmira, N. Y., have been deluged with copies of the Scholas­tic. Editor Bill Fay predicts a new high on sales for his campus magazine when other campus "mighties" are reviewed in future issues. 
ON THE SOCIAL FRONT When the Seniors returned from their Easter vacation, they had just one idea in mind — the Senior Ball. General 
Chairman Walt Wuebbold, of Hamilton, Ohio, has announced that many new plans are in the making for this "dance of dances." The place — the Rockne Memorial; the date — May 3. Tea Dance Chairman Pat Goff, of Auburn, 
N. Y., is busy with his end of the work. The South Bend Country Club will be the scene of his program. 
Then there's the K.of C. Spring For­mal to be considered. George Morris, Detroit brother, will be in charge accord­ing to Grand Knight Tim King, of Niles, Ohio. It will be a cabaret dance and will be held in the Palais Royale. 
Dr. Paul Bartholomew, of the Politics Department, conducted his annual six-day educational tour of Washington dur­ing the Easter recess. St. Mary's Col­lege girls were included in this year's pilgrimage, so the social angle was not neglected as of time gone by. 
Under the capable leadership of Pro­fessor and Mrs. William Downey the Notre Dame Economics Round Table and St. Mary's Economics Forum held the first of two joint dinner-meetings on March 11. Sixteen members of each club were in attendance. Ted Brush, West Los Angeles, Calif., president of the Round Table contingent, was the student speaker for the evening, pre­senting a discussion of "A Federation of States for Europe." Miss Betty Edgell will be hostess to the Notre Dame group at the St. Mary's dinner to be held in mid-.4.pril. 
BEFORE EASTER 
"Can I borrow a fin until after Easter?" — "You won't be using this suitcase, will you?" — "When does St. Mary's let out?" — "I haven't got any cuts left." — "Do you think the Prof, will check attendance Wednesday?" — "When 'ya leavin'?" — "Meet you at the Palmer House." — "I hope she can make the Ball." — "What's this I hear about no Senior Week this year?" — "No, there is no flu epidemic on the campus. . . . No one is to leave before March 20." 
DOTS AND DASHES 
The Goodrich Oratorical Award con­test is very popular this year. Prizes of 5100, 535, and 515 will be awarded to the best Websters and O'Connells. .. . The University Theatre is to present "She Stoops to Conquer" shortly after Easter, says Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C, dramatic coach. . . . Notre Dame's debaters met Canisius College, the University of Pennsylvania, St. John's University, Manhattan College, ; 
(Continued on Pace 207) | 




96th Commencement May 31, June 1, 2 
Alumni Program Promises to Crowd Time and Signifi­cance of Notre Dame's Great Week-end; Reunions 
Moving to New High; Programs Take on New 
Whether or not the University has announced its academic progi-am for the 96th Annual Commencement, May 31, June 1, 2, 1940, by the time this reaches press, is not really material. So varied and so interesting has the alumni pro­gram itself become that it would stand separately and significantly if removed from the pleasant associations of the contemporary program. 
Reunions this year promise a new high in both attendance and meaning. Slowly, to avoid any mistakes either in Judgment or interpretation, the Class Reunions are evolving from the purely social phase into an opportunity to exer­cise all of that phase, but in addition to refresh and to add to the value of the Univer'sity to the Class and of the mem­bers of the Class to each other. Many alumni are achieving splendid things. Without sacrificing the democracy and the fellowship of the Reunion, it seems a growing tendency to make the Re­union an occasion for recognizing such merit. For example, the Class of 1930 expects to make a part of its enjoyment of its Tenth the pleasant acquaintance with the great work Art Reyniers, '30, has accomplished in the field of germ-free techniques. 
-After all, Notre Dame means at least five major things to an alumnus, as a real influence whenever contact presents —spiritual, cultural, academic, frater­nal, physical. It seems too bad to spend three days on the campus and leave with only a 40 per cent grade, based on the use of the physical equipment and the enjoyment of the fraternity. It is a growing conviction of the alumni, ex­pressed by the Board of Directors in recent years, and shared by the Univer­sity, that none of this enjoyment need be lost in the addition of the richer phases to be found in the other 60 per cent. 
The work which Frank Hochreiter, Bob Hellrung, John Hurley, and Jim Sanford, particularly, are doing to bring back the men of their Classes, ought not to go for nothing more than is con­tained in any other party. Experience shows that men will come from coast to coast, who have not seen each other since they sat together in Washington Hall or the Gym, and who may never meet again. The renewal of associations should be enriched through every pos­sible channel. 
In this new note for Reunion, alumni find a particularly cooperative host this May-June Commencement, in the per­son of Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, acting president of Notre Dame. Long a friend of alumni, and a real patron of the Association, it is one of Father O'Donnell's ambitions, as it is of many of your alumni leaders and friends on the faculty, that Notre Dame alumni 
JOHN HURLEY Guiding 1925's Fifteenth 

will begin to reflect collectively the place they actually hold individually, and the academic stature which their alma mater has achieved. In other words, we have no apologies to anyone for our gradu­ates in their respective walks of life. Nor do we apologize anywhere for Notre Dame's progress or comparative merits. The point is that the Alumni Association, as an Association, doesn't adequately mirror this development. 
We hope to make a step in this direc­tion this Commencement. It will not be di"astic, or unusual. Nor will it detract at 
 Note 
all from the fun and the fellowship asso­ciated with Commencement in the past. Details of this proposed program will appear in the May ALUMNUS. As always, the one thing to guaran­teey our enjoyment is—BE BACK. You will have a room in one of the Halls. The Golf Course presents 18 attract-i%'e holes in the Alumni Tournament. 
Reunion Classes, with special appeal for members to come back, are: 1935­1930 - 1925 - 1920 - 1915 - 1910 -1905 -1900-1895-1890. 
The Alumni Banquet will set a new high. 
Jake Kline's baseball team will give you thrills in the first sport that made Notre Dame famous. 
The lake is there for a swim. The Rockne Memorial offers not only various facilities for exercise, but rem­
iniscences of a great Notre Dame man, known to most of you who will be back. The faculty, and you still know a lot of them, will be on deck, and welcome a friendly handshake and a few hark-backs as much as you do. As for the new ones, you ought to make their acquaint­ance. They are a part of Notre Dame, and the progress of Notre Dame depends on a full union of the old with the new. Don't stay aloof and then wonder why 
the place is different. 
There will be Masses enough so that you can easily, and quietly if you like, enjoy a spiritual refreshment along with yoiu: week-end. 
And no alumnus, including the 1939 g^duates, can visit the various campus high-spots, without finding changes, and new things, and new views of old things. 
In a few years, size may make changes necessary which will alter the present informal plans. Take advantage of your opportunities. 
It all adds up. Come to Commence­ment. May 31, June 1, 2. 
(N.B. Size already takes one pass at an old custom. The undergraduates will not vacate until May 30. The scope of preparing the halls for alumni occu­pancy makes it impossible to provide rooms for alumni before May 31.) 
But be here then! 
Father Putz, CS-C, Tells of Escape From France 
"We missed the DeiitschUmd by two days," said Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., smiling. "Two days before the British vessel Rawalpindi was sunk we traveled over that same point, near the coast of Iceland. Two days out from home port, the captain of the S. S. De Grasse (French transatlantic steamer) received a wireless that the German light cruiser Deutschland was reported in our vicin­ity. At the time, we were zigzagging across the North Atlantic to New York. After this warning, we doubled our speed; this caused the De Grasse, which is very light, to lurch from side to side. I'm afraid the reeling of the ship was not good for the appetite," he laughed, "because out of 200 passengers, only two frequented the dining room. We were all very thankful that we missed the pocket battleship, especially since we had no convoy." 
Father Putz had a rather hectic time on the Continent. After being gradu­ated from Notre Dame in 1932, he was assigned to the Holy Cross Community in Le Mans, Prance. He is a German citizen and his parents are living in Germany. Because of that, he usually spent his vacations in that country. In fact, he had just returned to Le Mans when the war broke out, and because of his German citizenship the French government wanted to place him in a concentration camp. "They came after me at Le Mans, but I had been warned and escaped to Paris, where the gen­darmes finally caught me." Father Putz was sent to a camp near Paris with 5,000 other prisoners, mostly German-Jewish exiles. 
On arriving at the camp he ob­tained permission to see the com­manding officer. Father Putz explained that Notre Dame would receive him if passage could be arranged. The officer, who also was a priest, granted him freedom to make arrangements for leaving France. That was the most dif­ficult part. With a Nazi swastika em­blazoned on his. passport. Father Putz found it hard to persuade the French 
Describes Conditions in Ger­many and France; Compares Maginot and Siegfried Lines 
By JOHN McDEVITT, '42 

government (which had confiscated com­mercial liners) to give him passage. After several weeks of waiting, he was finally allowed to leave on the DeGrasse. 
Father Putz was fortunate enough to have seen conditions in both Germany and France, so we. asked him about those countries. "In Germany," he said, "there is a spy in every family. The state has trained its children so that they will betray their parents. They are instructed to report to Youth lead­ers any suspicious actions or indiscreet 
Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C. 

conversations of their parents against Hitler. More than one misplaced word, uttered before the youngsters, has led directly to the concentration camp." The Gestapo, Father Putz said, is as ruthless and inhuman as has been advertised, and even more efficient. • Many abortive plots have been killed by their work with "patriotic" informers. 
Aside from the Catholic "purge" of a short while ago. Christian churches are open for free worship. They are thronged not only on Sunday, but every day; only the older people, however, at­tend. The Youth movement has de­stroyed every vestige of Christianity in the younger generation. "It is the boast of the regime that in ten years the churches will be closed because there will be no one left to go to them." 
The attitude of the Party toward the war was one of supreme confidence. "They were fearful when Hitler sug­gested Austria, but after taking Austria and Czecho-Slovakia without bloodshed, they thought that Gei-many was a Gulli­ver in a continent of Lilliputians. The stringent Allied blockade has probably softened that view. 
"The people, before the expansion program, were fairly satisfied. The av­erage German," he continued, "is not interested in politics. He is content as long as he can chat over a stein of beer, knowing that Germany ranks high among the World Powers. In the be­^nning. Hitler offered these conces­sions, and after the post-war strife, the Germans were eager to have a stable government; Hitler was the solution." With his high-handed methods. Hitler is not as popular now, and as most recrea­tions, beer included, are almost extinct, sentiment is gradually changing. During the summer, when Father Putz was last in Germany, the leanings of the people were undecided. "About 25% of the people definitely favored Hitler, 25% definitely disliked him, and 50% were vacillating between the two extremes. The economic crisis that is bound to confront the population may be an im­portant factor." 
France, on the other hand, is in a much better condition. All classes were positive that Hitler's expansion had to be stopped, and were merely waiting foir the call to arms. "The French people may be likened to a prize fighter," he said. "Before the war they were ner­vous, tense, high-pitched. They knew that the fight was impending, and wished that they could get it over with. The declaration of war acted like the hell of the first round: all fear left, and they settled down to the task of trying to win the war." 
Father Putz traveled through the ter­ritory of both the Maginot and Sieg­fried Lines, so we asked him to compare the two. "They both are practically im­
^ pregnable," he said, "although the Magi­not Line is of better quality. It is a solid fortress running the length of France, and is acknowledged to be as strong as Verdun was in the last war. At that time the Germans lost over 300,000 men merely capturing its out­
- posts." The completeness of its fortifi­cation is shown by the fact that the pill­boxes of the Maginot Line have guns that are mounted on revolving turrets so that they may fire in both directions. In this way, the French could still com­bat the enemy even if surrounded. 
• There are enough food and ammunition in the fortress to withstand a siege of two years. 
"The Siegfried Line, on the other hand, is built on a different idea. There are five .parallel lines with intermittent pillboxes. If the French capture the 
- outside string, they advance into a trap trying to take the second. The pillboxes are much closer together, and machine guns command every inch of the inter­vening ground. Besides that, the No Man's Land is highly mined. And the greatest asset and liability that the two forces have is the Rhine River. The cuiTent on this water is so fast that it is impossible to cross it in large numbers without being withered by the fire of the opposite forts." 
While Germany was occupied with her blitzkrieg in Poland, the French were 
- not idle. Commander-in-Chief Gamelin ordered skirmishes on the northern Ger­man border. The French captured nu­merous outposts and then "dug them­selves in." A trench now extends along the northern German border, sometimes in German territory, and acts as an im­pediment to any advance on the Magi­not. Although it was not widely publi­
• cized, Father Putz said, the Germans lost 3,000 men in a counter-attack on these trenches. 
In concluding our conversation, I asked Father Putz if there was any ani­mosity between the peoples of the two countries. "Not in the beginning," he answered. "I said Mass, gave sermons, and had nothing said against me, though I am a German citizen. Everyone spoke of the war as 'against Hitler.' Shortly before I left, however, I noticed that the former hatred for the German people themselves was being aroused. War al­ways breeds hatred." 
Father Putz joined the History facul­ty of the University at the beginning of the second semester and is residing in Cavanaugh Hall. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Auxiliary Celebrates First Birthday 
Twin Cities Group Marks Year 
of Excellent 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI. . . 
The man who is called "the youngest chief executive of any large American city" is a Notre Dame man, John Quinn Carey, '27, 34 years old. Mayor of To­ledo, Ohio. 
John finished in Law in 1927, after an active undergraduate life which in­cluded the presidency of the Toledo 
Mayor John Q. Carey, '27 

Club and a membership in the Student Activities Council. Outstanding as a speaker, he won the gold medal for ora­tory in the College of Law. 
Entering the private practice of law in Toledo shortly after his graduation, John was, in 1932, elected a member of the Ohio House of Representatives and, in 1934, he was re-elected. At the conclusion of the first year of his second term he resigned to assume new duties as Vice Mayoi: of Toledo. He was Vice-Mayor Carey from January 1, 1936 un­til December 31, 1939, and took office as Mayor on January 1, 1940. 
John is a graduate of Central Catholic High school in Toledo. He is married but has no children. 
 Accomplishment 
When it celebrates its first anniversary on April 22, the Women's Auxiliary of the Notre Dame Club of the Twin Cities will recall a year of happy accomplish­ment. Like the Notre Dame Guild of Rhode Island and Southeastern Massa­chusetts (see ALUMNXIS, NOV., 1938), the Notre Dame ladies of Minneapolis and St. Paul theaten momentarily to out­shine in general activity and enthusiasm 
the Notre Dame males of the neighbor­hood. (Or should I say "threaten," Mr.. Grimes?) 
Walter Hall, '25, had the idea which started the Twin City Auxiliary on its organizing way. The club (male) liked Walt's idea and a few of the girls ar­ranged the first luncheon. That epochal luncheon was on April 22, 1939, in the Curtis Hotel with a dozen present. The 
first officers were Mrs. Thos. W. Frost; '30, president; Mrs. John D. Yelland, '30, vice-president; and Mrs. Vincent W. Mauren, '34, secretary and treasurer; When her husband's work took themout: of the Twin City area, Mrs. Frost turned over her presidential .duties to Mrs. Yelland. The club now boasts an active membership of about 20. .. .,, 
"The main purpose of the Auxiliary," says Gerry McKay, '30, secretary of the males, "is to promote more joint activi­ties for the girls aind fellows; and to make the activities which have always included' the wives more enjoyable af­fairs. That undoubtedly was ' demqn-r. strated at oiir annual Christmas Formal this year. More Notre Dame men tuirned out, particularly members of the Alumni and Auxiliary clubs. 
"The Auxiliary meets the second Mon­day of every month. Two of the girls are j"oint hostesses and serve a dessert at 8 o'clock. Afterwards the business of the month is taken care of and bridge follows. In September the girls arranged a wiener roast for themselves' and the husbands. Fourteen or 15 couples atr tended and had a good time. At Christ-, mas time the girls took care of a worthy family.' They provided food and cloth­ing. ' They later hada sleigh ride party." 
And all-this in addition to holding down the huskies you -saw pictured- in the March ALUMNUS! 
By JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 Director of Athletic Pubiclity 







ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
Eddie Eiska, of Chicago, Wgh scoring forward of the past two seasons, has been elected captain of the 1940-41 squad, monogram winners for the past season have been named, and another interesting chapter in the history of Notre Dame basketball has gone to the binders. 
The Irish won their last two games with Marquette at Milwaukee, and with Detroit at Detroit, to equal last season's record of 15 victories in 21 starts, and to leave Coach George Keogan with a 17-year record of 282 victories, 84 de­feats, and a tie for a winning percen­tage of .770. No comment is required, we believe, on this mark. 
A quickie review of the season shows that Notre Dame won its first four games, then hit a horrible four-game slump. With a disastrous season staring them in the face, the Irish pulled them­selves together to win 11 out of the last 13 games. They had a .714 season, and they missed an .810 season by three points, losing to Michigan by two points and to Butler by one point. 
The 1939-40 hearties established an all-time Notre Dame record by scoring 52 or more points a game for five straight contests. They scored the high­est total for either team in the following series: Valparaiso (4 games), Wiscon­sin (5 games), Kentucky (6 games), Butler (34 games), Pennsylvania (11 games), Northwestern (37 games), and Illinois (14 games). They also estab­lished a high for Notre Dame teams in the series with Marquette (28 games), and Michigan (4 games). They scored 986 points or 46.9 a game, to oppon­ents' 775 or 36.9 a game. Eemember 'way back when the idea was to hold the opposition to 20 points, and figure you'd win most of your games? Only one op­ponent, Cincinnati, which had just re­ported for practice under a new coach, was held below 26 points, getting 17; yet Notre Dame had a highly successful season. The late Dr. John Naismith didn't like the rule changes, either, and he invented the game. 
With all the scoring records brought about by the lively game, we are indebt­ed to Attorney IGchael G. (Mickey) Kane, of Springfield, Mass., for the in­formation that the all-time Notre Dame indi\idual game scoring record belongs to the Hon. William J. (Peaches) Gran-field, and not to Johnny Moir. 
Moir made 25 points as a sophomore against Pittsburgh, and previously Ed (Moose) Krause had been credited ^vith a 22-point Notre Dame record. Mr. Granfield, former United States con­gressman, and now presiding justice of the district court at Springfield, scored 28 points on 14 field goals Feb. 5, 1913, against Eose Polytechnic at Terre Haute, Ind. The Irish of that year, Mr. Kane points out, won all but two of their 14 games, (he says 15, but the record book lists 14, and for all we know, the record book is wrong), and the Indiana State championship. Granfield and Paul Now­ers, guard, were named all-State. This pair. Captain Al Feeney, and Captain Jim Cahill of the 1913-14 team were given all-Western consideration. 
Mr. Kane adds, "This information isn't given to you for the purpose of de­tracting from Johnny Moir's great record at Notre Dame, because we all know he was one of Notre Dame's bas­ketball greats, but as Al Smith would say. I t is being sent to you, just to keep the record straight,' and to ^ve the youngsters something to shoot at." 
Thanks to you, "Mickey" Kane,, apologies and congratulations to you, "Peaches" Granfield, and a promise to anyone who may read this to get into those old Scholastics some time to get a complete single game, single season, and three-season record for all time. For all we know, Eobert (Pete) Vaughan might have scored 50 points some time or other. 
Flashing back to the present, the fol­lowing men made their monograms last season: Seniors — Captain Mark Ertel, center; Eex Ellis, center; Gene Klier, guard; Don Smith, guard; and Kenneth (Eed) Oberbruner, forward. Juniors — Captain - Elect Eddie Eiska, forward; Larry Ryan, guard; and Bob Smith, guard. Sophomores — George Sohek, forward. 
Eiska's election marks the sixth time in the last eight years that a Chicago boy has led the Irish. Six of the last seven leaders are products of the Loyola na­tional Catholic high school tournament. Chicago captains have included Johnny Baldwin, Ed Krause, Johnny Jordan, and Eay Meyer twice. Loyola tournament products who led the team in recent years were Marty Peters and Johnny Ford, 1935-36 co-captains; Krause, Jor­dan, and Meyer. 
Eiska's boyhood hero was Krause, which is understandable. Both are Lithuanian boys from Chicago's south side and from De LaSalle high school. Both captained De LaSalle teams which won the national Catholic title. Both were high scorers for Notre Dame throughout their careers, although Eiska ' has a year to go on his. Both played football for De LaSaUe, but Eiska has confined himself to playing an abbre­viated form of the game on the basket­ball court, while Krause was a promi­nent ail-American choice at tackle for. the Irish. 
TRACK 
Even as the football looked better losing to Southern California than it did beating anyone else last Fall, in the opinion of many, a Fighting Irish track team worthy of the name, looked better 
TED LEONAS, '40 Captain of Track 

losing to Michigan and taking third in the Central Collegiate conference meet than it did in registering its lone victory of the indoor season over Michigan State. 
After defeating the Spartans, 57 2/3 to 37 1/3, the Irish suffered a 63 to 41 loss at the hands of Marquette, and a 52 to 34 defeat by Indiana at Bloomington. But lo and behold, the best mighty Mich­igan could do was to take a 54 to 41 decision, for Coach John P. Nicholson really had his lads set for the Wolver­ines. 
The Irish tried hard to come back the next week for the Centrals, but they didn't quite have the stuff. Marquette won its first indoor Centrals title with 35% points, Pitt was second -with 31% , and Notre Dame was third with 27%. Marquette participated in a four-way tie for first in the pole vault and got no other first place. Pitt had one first place, and two ties for first. Notre Dame had three firsts and two ties for first — but lacked the numbers needed for victory. 
Against Michigan, Cliff Brosey pushed his all-time Notre Dame indoor record out to 49 feet 10% inches, which is also a gym record and one of the best throws ever made by a middle western sophomore. In the Centrals, he beat John Bazyk of Pitt by one-quarter of an inch with his final throw of 48 feet 9% inches. 
The Irish defeated Jlichigan in 3:23.3 and the Centrals field in 3:23.2 in the mile relay, to get a handsome trophy. The quartet was composed of George Schiewe, Ken Collins, Joe Halpin, and Eay Roy. The all-time Notre Dame in­door record is 3:23, made in 1931, with Alex Wilson running anchor. 
Bob Saggau avenged last year's de­feat by winning the 60-yard dash from Alan Smith of Michigan in the dual meet, but Bob, after winning his first heat in the Centrals, was unplaced in the serai-final heat after a poor start. 
Eoy won the Michigan meet quarter in 50.8 seconds, and the CCC title in exactly the same time. Joe Halpin, ap­parently off to the best start of his career, and all wound up for a great performance, was tripped accidentally in the Centrals' qualifying heat, and he didn't finish. 
Captain Ted Leonas was second to Michigan's Don Canham, Big Ten cham­pion, and in the Centrals he retained a piece of his title by participating in a three-way tie for first at 6 feet 2 inches. John Dean, victorious in the Michigan meet at 12 feet 6 inches, cleared 13 feet in the Centrals to gain a four-way first place tie. 
Michigan took the Butler relays title with 37 l/j; points, with Notre Dame seventh with 13 19/20 points. The Irish failed to collect any first places in the Butler field. Brosey's second behind Bayzk of Pitt and ahead of Harris of Indiana was the outstanding individual performance. 
As we mentioned last month, this ap­pears to be one of those "in between" years in track. In between the post­graduate team of Greg Eice and the freshman team, which shapes up as per­haps the best in Notre Dame history. Lacking numbers and great stars, the Irish nevertheless proved in the Michi­gan meet and in the Centrals, when the breaks went against them in wholesale lots, that they have some of the stuff in their boots that Rice has, and that oc­casionally they can reach down and drag it out. 

The Missoula Minimum, since last month, has added the world indoor two-mile record to his list. We said he hoped to run a schedule of 4:28 for the mile and G:45 for the mile and a half. He hit the mile on time and was a sec­ond slow at the mile and a half mark, even though everyone in the race was trying to set the pace and there was great jostling and muddling all the way. Rice's new mark of 8:56.2 erased Don Lash's 8:58. Greg came back two weeks later to take the Chicago relays title in 9:00.3, beating Walter Mehl and Lash by about 20 yards with his you-have-to-see-it-to-believe-it gun lap sprint. He covered the last quarter in 59.3! 
The Chicago relays victory must have given Greg as much satisfaction as his world record performance at two miles or his 13:55.9 world three-mile mark. He made his debut to big time track in the 1938 Chicago meet (which this year was conducted largely by Jim Keams, '34, of the Chicago Daily Neios), got a stitch, and didn't finish. In 1939 he lost again to Don Lash by an estimated two inches. But the decisiveness of his 1940 victory, and his time — a new meet record — adequately compensates for his two pre­vious beatings in Chicago. 
As this is •written, Greg is training for his three-mile race with Taisto MaM of Finland, world record holder outdoor at both two and three miles. 
BASEBALL 
If and when the snow leaves. Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline plans to organize outdoor practice in preparation for the stiffest schedule to confront the Irish in more than a decade, a 22-game array. 
The card calls for an April 6 opener with Northwestern, followed a week later by t\vo games with Iowa. An Eastern trip to play Navy at Baltimore, May 10, and Army at West Point, May 11, highlights the schedule. Michigan State will provide the Commencement 
•game opposition. 
Six of last year's 14 lettermen will be absent, but the presence of Norvall Hunthausen and Eex Ellis, senior pitch­ers, brightens the outlook. Tony Cella and Jim Lang, juniors; and Sebastian (Subby) Nowicki, John Campbell, and Dick Willemin, sophomores, are after mound positions also. 

Art Verhoestra, veteran catcher is not back. Reserves from last year include 
CHET SULLIVAN, '40 

Captain of Baseball 

Tom Brennan, Al Vandervoort, and Jack Joyce. Bemie Crimmins and Mike KeUy nead the sophomore candidates. 
Larry Doyle, first baseman, and Bob Hoag, second sacker, are missing from the infield. Charles Farrell, letterman at first base, and Hubert (Hymie) Crane, letterman at second, are back, however. Don Hengel, first, and Dan Maguire, second, are returning reserves. George Sobek, shortstop as a freshman, is also after the keystone position. 
Eay Pinelli, regular shortstop last year, is available again, and he may get relief from Jack Clifford, a sophomore. 
Captain Chet Sullivan, senior letter­man; Charles Crimmins, junior reserve; and Ed Hengel, a sophomore, are all after the third base post. 
The loss of Captain Joe Nardone, and Prank Behe, a letterman, has weakened the outfield. But Kenneth (Red) Ober­bruner, left field regular last year, and Roy Pinelli, who alternated with Behe in right field, give Coach Kline a good nucleus. Bob Hargrave and Andy Chlebeck, both sophomores, are after the center field post. 
The schedule follows: 
April 6—NORTHWESTEKN AT NOTRE DAME 
12—IOWA AT NOTKE DAJIE 
13—IOWA AT NOTKE DAME 
16—Chicaffo at Chicago 
20—WESTERN STATE AT NOTRE DAME 
23—CHICAGO AT NOTRE DAME 
25—Western State at Kalamazoo 
27—Northwestern at Evanston 
29—PURDUE AT NOTRE DAME 
May 1—Michigan at Ann Arjjor 4—^Mlchiean S.tatc at East Lansing 6—Indiana at Btoominston 7—Indiana at Bloomington 
10—Navy at Annapolis 11—Army at West Point 14—Purdue at Lafayette 17—Ohio State at Columbus 18—Ohio State at Columbus 24—WISCONSIN AT NOTRE DAME 25—WISCONSIN AT NOTRE DAME 27—MICHIGAN AT NOTRE DAME 
June 1—MICHIGAN STATE AT NOTRE DAME (Commencement Game) 
TENNIS 
Eight dual matches and the state tournament at Lafayette, Ind., will keep Notre Dame's tennis team busy in 1940. 
The Irish will open April 18 against Wabash at Craw fordsnlle Wabash is 
BILL FAY, '40 Captain of Tennis 
the only school on the card not repre­sented last year. 
It has been many years since Notre Dame finished above .500 in tennis, but Prof. Walter M. Langford, '30, coach of tennis and fencing, believes that the Irish may get into the winning column more often than not in '40. They have come dose in recent seasons and have indicated steady improvement. 
Langford feels that this year's team will be stronger than last year's which won four out of nine. Captain Bill Fay, Jack Joyce, John Walsh, Harold Bowl­er, and John Wolf, all monogram win­ners in 1939, are back. Joyce was absent from some matches and was handicapped in others because of an infected hand last season. 
Dan Canale, Memphis, Tenn., sopho­more, won the University title last year as a freshman, and he is expected to The Notre Dame Alumnus 
press Captain Fay for the No. 1 spot. Norman Heckler, a junior, also showed promise last season. 
The schedule: 
April 18—Wabash at Crawfordsvflle 22—KENTUCKY AT NOTRE DAME 27—Western State Teachers at Kalamazoo 
May 3—NOKTHWESTERN AT NOTRE DAME 4—INDIANA AT NOTRE DAME 9—Chicago at Cbicaso 
11—MICIUGAN AT NOTRE DAME 16—DePauw at GreencasUe 23-21-23—State Tournament at Lafayette 
V SPRING FOOTBALL Spring football practice will open officially as soon as weather permits, ac­cording to Coach Elmer P. Layden. The Irish made a hopeful attempt to get in a few workouts before the holi­days, but the weather man did them ^vrong, permitting them to get outside on the frozen turf only four times. Replacements at left end and center, and the development of reserves all tlu-ough the team, are the major prob­lems confronting Layden and his aides this year. The assistant coaches remain the same as last year: Joe Boland, line coach; Chet Grant, backfield coach; Joe Benda, end coach; Bill Cemey, B team coach and chief scout;; and Jake Kline, freshman coach. 
Ten of last year's 11 starters have been graduated, but there will be letter­men on hand at every position but cen­ter and possibly left end. 
Bud Kerr, all-American, and Frank Biagi will be graduated, and Pete Ar­boit, another letterman, may not be back at left end. George Rassas, junior who was benched with injuries most of the season, is the best prospect in view at this ^vriting. 
John lIcIntjT:e, Jack Finneran, and Al Mooney, all lettermen at center will be graduated. Bob Osterman, rangy reserve of last year, is the man for the others to beat out. 
Tad Hai-\'ey, all-Western right tackle, will receive his degree in June, but Paul Lillis and Cliff Brosey, sophomore letter­men, will be back. Tom Gallagher, the only retunung starter, and Jim Brutz, are returning monogram winners at left tackle. Prank Albert is lost. 
Joe DePranco and Chuck Riffle, start­ing guards, are through. Pete Kelly and John Gubanich are back with sweaters from last Fall. A good crop of reserves will bolster these posts. 
The loss of Steve Sitko and Johnny Kelleher at quarterback, Harry Steven­son and Ben Sheridan at left halfback, Lou Zontini at right halfback, and Joe Thesing at fullback is greater than the-coaches hope to overcome. Returning lettermen in the backfield are Bob Har­grave, quarterback; Bob Saggau, left half; Steve Bagarus and Bemie Crim­mins, right half; and Captain MUt Pie­pul, fullback. 
The 1940 schedule: 
OcL 6—COLLEGE OF PACIFIC AT NOTRE 
DAME 12—GEORGIA TECH AT NOTRE DAME 19—CARNEGIE TECH AT NOTRE DAME 26—Illinois at Champaign 
No7. 2—Army at New York 
9—Navy at Baltimore 16—IOWA AT NOTRE DAME 23—^Northwestern at Evanston 
Dec 7—Southern California at Los Angeles 
FENCING 
Winners of eight monograms for the past fencing season have been an­nounced by Director of Athletics Elmer 
P. Layden. The Irish concluded their season with a 9 to 8 victory over Wash­ington University at St. Louis recently. 
This one-point victory gave Notre Dame a record of 5 victories against 4 defeats for the season. Joe Smalley, New York City senior, turned the tide with his four victories in sabre and epee, after the Irish had lost the foU, 6 to 3. They won the other two divisions each by a 3 to 1 score from the Bears. 
Monogram winners are: Gerald K. Donovan, Tulsa, Okla., senior; John P. Gaither, Louisville, Ky., sophomore; John D. Gavan, Milwaukee, Wis., senior; Russell L. Harris, Little Rock, Ark., sophomore; Captain Robert P. Sayia, Montclair,- N. J., senior; Smalley, and Senior Manager, W. Kenneth Warbur­ton, Brooklyn, N. Y., senior. 
The season's record follows: 
Notre Dame. 11: Detroit, 6 Notre Dame. 14 ; Northwestern, 8 Michigan State. 10; Notre Dame, 7 Chicago, 15: Notre Dame, 12 Notre Dame, 15: Ohio State, 12 Michigan State, 17; Notre Dame, 10 Notre Dame, 17: Marquette, 10 Wisconsin, 9% Notre Dame, 7% SCotre Dame, 9: Washington U., S 
UNIVERSAL N. D. NIGHT 
(Continued from Page 179) 

date expects to give. Time, and a slightly relaxed budget, again, are vital to this phase. 
On the whole, considering the com­parative youth of the Night—although it is a pioneer- of its type—^and consid­ering the rapid growth of the Clubs, the Association, the University itself, the -Alumni Office believes that the Night has kept a straight course toward its original objective,'and that the hopes of the founding fathers of this particular project have not been disappointed in 16 observances, and will reach a new high in satisfaction .with the 17th on the Night of Monday, April 15, 1940. 
« a <i


ALUMNI CLUBS 
BUFFALO 
Lionel V. O. Smith, '33, 424 Main St . President; John H. Travers, Jr., *33,. 191 North St.» Secretary. 

At our last meeting we held a bowline party which was attended by 30 members. Among those seen on the alleys were Doc Burns, Jim Moulder, Frank Cass, Joe BattaRlia, Marty Ryan,- Hank Weiss, Gas Jenkins, the Shccdy brothers, Mike and Paul. Marty Travers, Li Smith, Don Love, Frank Bennett, Tom Condon. Frank Kellner, Norm Anderson, Don Jacob!, Ed Kcmpf, Jack Hodson, John Warren, Frank Rcppenhaccn and yours truly. High scorer for the evening was Joe Dunn, who with the too eager help of the scorekeeper, boasted a 323 game,! 
Co-chairmen Frank Ilcppcnhagen and JFike Shccdy are working on our Universal Night Din­ner. They are trying to secure as guest speakers. His Excellency, the Rt. Rev. Bishop John Duffy and our Honorable Mayor. Thomas L. HolUng. The affair will probably be held at one of our leading hotels, and arrangements for a radio hook-up arc being completed. 
Marty Travers. one of our leading bankers, and a most enthusiastic worker, tells us that he is expecting an heir and a future Notre Darner. As soon as this fact materializes I will notify you. Jim Moulder has joined the credit department of the Tip-Top Tailors, and e.T-Prexy Bill Cass is now with McCarthy Brothers and Ford. 
We have welcomed into our club two new mem­bers w*ho have been transferred to Buffalo. They are John Warren, from Hamburg, and Jack Hodson. from Cleveland. 
Sojourning in Florida were Carl Nagel, *3S. and Don Jacob!, '35. In Honolulu on a vacation trip is one of our older members, Ron Zudeck. 
An Innovation was introduced at our last meet­ing when Don Jacob! donated two gifts as door prizes. Dr. Bums had the dubious honor of draw­ing the w-inning names, and the prizes went to Marty Ryan and Frank Kcppenhagcn. 
John H. Travers, Jr. 

CHICAGO 
Thomas C. Donovan, *24, 134 I^Salle St.. President; J. Barry O'Kcefe, '32. 4841 W. Adams St., Sccretair. 

The new oFEicers and board of governors for the year 1940 and 1941 are as follows: 
Honorary president, John B, Kanaley, '09: president, Thomas C- Donovan, '24; first vice-president, George A. Brautifcam, '29; second vice-president, Eugene J. Holland, *34; secretary, J. Barry O'Keefc. '32: treasurer, John F. Clark. '35. 
Governors: Edward W. Gonld, '23; Tighe E. Woods, '32; William J. Drcnnan, '24; Francis J. Oelerich, '32: Brace J. Holmberg, '23; Thomas S. McCabe, '22; Richard L. Fhclan, '28; Arthur L. Korzcneski, '35; Joseph P. Henneberry, *23. James T. Igoe, Jr., '32. 
Our club will (as this Is written) hold a smoker on April 1, at the Bismark Hotel. These events have always provided very pleasant evenings with Nctrc Dame men, and our chairmen, Paul O'TooIe. Ray Fox, and Jim O'Keefe promise that this meet­ing will be a gala affair.' 
The 7939-1940 >lfufflni Board 
Prof. William L. Benitz, '11, Notxe Dame, Ind. honorary President Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Chicago, 111. President Henry C. "Wurzer, '25, Davenport, Iowa . First Vice-President Keene Fitzpatrick, '13, San Francisco, Calif. Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, *25, Notre Dame, Ind. — ^ecretary-Treciswrer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind. Assistant Secretary Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, N. J. „ Director to 1940 Francis H. McZeever, '03, Chicago, HL .... Virector to IHl Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, HI Director to IHt John T. Higgms, '22, Detroit, Mich. Director to 194S Ambrose A. O'Connell, '07, Washington, D.C. ^^x-Offido Director to 1940 
On April 2, the Second Annual Handball Tour­nament will begin at the Lake Shore Athletic Club. Last year's tournament was a huge success; 2^ singles players and 15 doubles teams partici­pated. John Dorgan, our capable chairman, is expecting a bigger and better tournament this year. Last yenr*s champs, Al Culver in the singles, and Ed Melchlone and John Dorgan in the doubles, will find plenty of real competition this year. 
Our plans for Universal Notre Dame Night are about complete. Ed Gould was selected chainnan, and promised another brilliant program. 
As chairman of the Placement Committee. Ed O'Toole is making a very fine record. His con­tinued success depends largely on the active sui>­port of all N.D. men in the Chicago area. 
Barry O'Keefc. 

DAYTON 
Gaylord P. Haas, '29. 17 E. Brace Ave., President: WUUam L. Struck. '36. .708 Winters Bank Bldg., Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Dayton held its annual Rockne Memorial Mass at the Loretto Guild, Sun­day. March 17. The Ancient Order of Hibernians and the Gaelic Cumann joined with us on this occasion to celebrate the Mass in memory of Knute Rockne. Rev. Francis P. Cavanangh. C.S.C.. of the University of Notre Dame, was the celebrant, and breakfast was served thereafter. An informal, very pleasant discussion was then had and thoroughly enjoyed by all. Appro.xiraate­ly 100 were present. The committee in charge of the arrangements were: James Trant, chmrman, Chester Kline. Sylvester Bums, and Ridiard Burkholder. Edward Grimes ser\'ed the Mass. 
Those in attendance from the Notre Dame Club as well as those above named were: Andrew Aman, Harry Baujan, E. Walter Bauman. James 
K. Collins. Walter C. Dickcrson. Judge Henry L. Femcding, C. Forstcr Hahne. Thomas A. Kelly, Eugene A. Mayl, Joseph B. Murphy, W. Edmund Shea, William L. Struck and Paul Swift. 
In the evening the Notre Dame Club of Dayton joined with the Andent Order of Hibernians and the Gaelic Cumann in their St. Patrick's Day. celebration at the Miami Hotel at which time Father Cavanangh was the guest speaker and Joseph B. Murphy, '11, *as the toastmaster. 
Over 600 attended this event, which was one of the finest affairs that has been held here. 
William L. Strack. 

DETROIT Howard F. Beechinor. ex. '06, 1300 Union Gnardian Bldg^ President; Malcolm F. Knaos, '26, 423 Carlis Bldg., Secretary. 
We had our March meeting on the 11th, having delayed It a week so that John Brennan, our local Placement chairman, could get some additional information from the University the week before. 
ITiere were 45 at dinner at the University Club and again we saw some new faces. The theme of the meeting was a commemoraUon of Rockne. Frank McGlnnb handled the program very ca­pably, and, as a highlight of the evening, called on several old-timers to relate their favorite Rockne stories. As a prize there was offered a bust of Rockne to the best story teller bat there were so many good ones it was finally decided to draw lots, and I am happy to say that I was the fortunate one to win. Those who told stories were Larry Gernon. Gil Schaefer, Biffy Lee, Charles Martin, Hank Scfamid. E. H. Kelly and Mai Knaus. 
Some of the new faces at our meeting: Bob Dncey arrived In Detroit a couple of months ago and is now working for General Electric Supply Corporation. He has attended our February and March meetings and is a welcome addition to our regulars. Bob brought Carl Pettersch with him this month. Joe Sdirage. Jr.. brough his father. and Henry Schmld. who has a son at Notre Dame, brought another son, Ed, whom we hope Is a 
P.S. (Prospective Student). 3Iarce Verblest brought his brother. Bud. M. K. Leahy was in . and had a guest named John Gibbons. Sid Bower. *2G, attended for the first time. 
Of course, there were most of the faithful at* tendants. Howard Beechinor took an Inactive part in the meeting. It being his first day out since hurting his knee in an automobile accident. February IS, on his way back from Notre Dame; and there were GU Schaefer, John Brennan, George Hanlon. Reroi Renier. Dr. Neil Wbalen, Jim Foren and Larry Gcmon. 
Eddie Moriarty. Jim Walker. Jim HcKenna. John Langhna, LonU DeHayes. Jr., and Ray Brett have been appearing very frequently. Ob yes, and Chet Sadowski -was there and Gerard Naumann and Bob Hurler have been there the last couple of meetingrs, as have Myron Anderson and Dick Schneider. 
Frank Qutsh. Harry Cotter and E. H. KcUy were in a eroup. Matt Garrisan and Ted Fcld­man came in rather late but they were there in time to enjoy the movies shown by Mr. Tobias of the Denver and Rio Grande Railway. "We saw some beautiful shots of Sun Valley, Idaho, and the Rockies. 
A great deal of our discussion during the busi­ness end of our meeting, naturally was in regard to Universal Notre Dame Night, April 15. The entire committee, under Biffy Lcc, is working en­thusiastically toward a successful event. Biffy introduced a noveltj* when he eliminated all chance of argument by raffling off the No. 1 table for Universal Notre Dame Night at Sl.OO a chance and we were happy to have Larry Gcmon win because we know that a deser\-ing member will have this table. 
Dr. Neil Whalcn's father died last week and was buried Saturday, March 16. The sympathy of the club is extended to Dr. Whalen, 
Malcolm F. Knaus. 

HARRISBURG 
Robert M. Johnston, *33, Box 108, Presi­dent; Joseph R. FarreU, '15, 32 N. 27th St., Camp Hill, Pa., Secretary. 
Bob Johnston, our genial president, has ap­pointed a committee to arrange a dinner party on Universal Notre Dame Night. Anyone look­ing for us will probably find us at the Harris-burger Hotel. 
The Capital District Club's note in the last issue reminds us that vrc have had a visit from Jack Land, who recently moved to Philadelphia. Jack should make the Philadelphia Club a valu­able member. 
Marty McKcott-n comes to Harrisburg from New York in the interests of the Electric Bond & Share Company. Marty ran across John Mc­Neill recently, and we immediateb' adopted him as a member of our club. Thanks, New York. 

Just recently the secretary visited Altoona and met Bill Clear, '30, on Altoona's 11th Ave. Bill extended a tempting invitation to come to dinner, which business compelled us to pass up. CNVe'll take a rain-check, Leone.) We also saw Leonard Bums in animated conversation with a fellow citizen at lunch. 
This office is the recipient of a fine calendar from the New York Club -which reminds one of dates important to any Notre Dame man. We 
think much of thiswill never see it­  gift.  The  Harrisburg Club Joe FarrclL  
LOS ANGELES  

Charles S. Gass, *30, 1225 Citizens National Bank Bldg., President; Martin B. Daly» ex. *28, 201 Denslow Arc , W. Los Angeles, Sec­retary. 

The plans for Universal Notre Dame Night arc shaping up nicely for us here in Los Angeles. Wc have made arrangements for dinner and a program that will bo of general interest. Our great friend, Pat O'Brien, -will officiate as toast­master. The other speakers will be arranged for later, but they will not be given too long a time to talk as this will be one of the big chances of the crowd to get together this spring and summer, and so we do not want too burdensome a gath­ering. 
Jim McCabc has been named the chairman of the committee in diarge of this affair and the place picked is Eaton's Chicken House on Wilshire Blvd. The time is any time after G P. M. and 
the eating will start about 6:30 P. M. We will have a radio at the meeting and will try to pick up the eastern broadcast. The committee for this affair consists of Jim McCabe, '22, as chairman: Terence B. Cosgrove, '06, Frank J. Barry, Sr.. '03, Emmett P. Mulholland. '16, Leo B. Ward, "20. Eugene Kcnncdj-, '22, Larrj- Moore, '29, Tom Ashe, '30, "Judge" John Carbcrry, '35, and Mark Kcrin, '37. This may seem a large number on the committee, but this is one of our big nights out here and so the committee is made big to correspond to the night. We expect a big turn­out and a good time for all. 
Wc were rather disappointed that we could not 

have the picture "The Highlights of the 1939 
Football Season" for Universal Notre Dame Night 
but are glad that we got in for a week-end. As 
long as we could not have them for the big night 
it was decided that a luncheon,, Saturday, April 
27, would be the time to show them. The place 
has not been picked as yet but it will be an­
nounced at Eaton's and notice will be mailed to 
those on our mailing list as soon as final arrange­
inrnls can be made. 
Marty Daly. 

NEW JERSEY 
Danle] J. O'Neill, *26, 184 N. Walnot St. East Orange, President; Harvey P. Rock­well, '34. 1202 Essex House, 1048 Broad St, Newark, Secretary. 

Past Activities 
TIte movies showing the high spots of the 19S9 

football season were very excellent and undoubt­
edly ' everj-one who saw them was very well 
pleased. It was a treat for some of the older 
men to sec the many new buildings on the cam­
pus. You may be sure that there were many 
complimentary comments passed during and after 
the meeting on the beautiful appearance of the 
improvements on the campus. 
Future Activities 
The New Jersey Club is going on the air! Be­tween our president, Dan O'Neill, and Sa] Bon­tcmpo a very fine program is being cooked up for April 1. With the outstanding talent from foot­ball days, you can look for a program that will be much better than average. 
The new constitution for the Jersey Club is still in the embryonic stage, but with a little incuba­tion it will surely grow. This is official — direct­ly from the chief executive. 
Haney P. Rockwell, Jr. 


PHILADELPHIA 
William A. A. CastcUini, '22, Franklin In­stitute, Parkway at 20th, President; E. Bradley Bailey, ex. '23,2 60 S. Broad St., Sccrctarj'. 

At the outset is our wish to correct a mis­statement contained in our last installment. It seems that our fellow Philadelphians, Clipper Smih and Vince McNally, had been rumored to be on their way to a new coaching job at Loyola. The local press had even the best of us fooled. However, . Villanova will have its two coaches again this year and we're certainly glad they're not leaving. The Main Line institution should have a bang-up line and backfield this year. Best of luck from all of us, Clipper and Vince. 
The annual ejections at our last meeting were very quickly over. There were two withdrawals, by Adrian Wackcrman and Walt Ridley in favor of their worthy opponents for the offices of pres­ident and vice-president, respectively. Bill Cas­tcUini was, therefore, elected to the very impor­tant office of president, and Jack Kenny was named vice-president. 
Harold Duke was elected to serve in the capacity of treasurer, and this very important job of sec-. relary was unanimously picked out for Ed Bailey and his able assistant. Cliff ProdehL The Universal Notre Dame Night Banquet will 
"be held at Palumbo's Retaurant, it was decided. 
nfter many suggestions had been offered concem­
iny places and menus. The committee in charge 
of arrangements is endeavoring to mnke this the 
finest banquet we have ever had both as regards 
the food and the array of entertaining and en­
lightening speakers. Up to this writing committ­
ments had been received from the following 
speakers who arc noted in their particular fields 
of endeavor: Larry Flick, managing editor of 
the Philadelphia ''Evening Bulletin:" Mr. Duck, 
an executive of the Lee Tire and Rubber Com­
pany : Mr. Rosenbaum, of radio station "WFIL. 
These have all signified their willingness to be 
on hand. Tom Daly, LL.D. '17, also of the "Eve­
ning Bulletin," a frequent lecturer at Notre Dame, 
and Red Smith may also be available. 
Walt Phillip is endeavoring to secure time for us on the local radio station with as much cover­age as possible for a program emanating from the Philadelphia Club. It was hoped that we would be able to get a cut-in on the national Notre Dame broadcast from Detroit but we were unable to do so. Our president-elect. Bill Castcl­lini, is assisting in every way possible to make this year's banquet and program a huge success. We know that it will be. 
Tom Kennedy, law student at the University of 

Pennsylvania, and Dan Boyle, medical student at 
Hahncman Medical School, were present at our 
last meeting. Also in attendance was Gerald Ash. 
'22, a traveling auditor for the New York Cen­
tral's Merchants Despatch, who is in the city for 
a time. Adieu. 
Connie Byrne. 


ST. LOUIS 
Dr. Bcrtrand D. Coughlin. '26, 7704 Country Club Court. President; Albert J. Ravarino. '35, 4651 Shaw St , Secretary­

Haven't been over to the weekly luncheons since club elections so I'm low on news. I think AI Ravarino reported the election results last time while I was ill, so I won't repeat them. But I would like to mention one of the pre-election plans for a bcer-hall putsch that didn't material­ize. Reminiscent of Notre Dame class elections it was, but the time was too short, and so the anticipated battle turned into a walk-a-way for the opposition. Maybe I shouldn't reveal the plan because it's so good they may want to trj* it again next year, but other club politicians may be short on ideas, so here it is. 
"Plotters Strang and Hoban met in my room (with me playing the role of host only, of course) on the night before the scheduled meeting was to be held. Encouraged by a fresh package of chewing tobacco which I cracked out, they de­cided that if the meeting were to be held as scheduled the "enemy" would be able to present an overwhelmingly strong front, but if the meeting could be postponed and the meeting place trans­ferred across the river to East St. Louis, rea­soned Fuehrers Strong and Hoban, the tables could be turned because of the vast number of Notre Dame henchmen Mr. Hoban controls on that side of the river. So they left that night gleefully rubbing their hands as I stood In the doorway with an empty package of tobacco. 
But it didn't jell. The meeting was held as originally planned with the opposition placing capable candidates in every office. The coming year should equal the splendid record made by the club last year under the divided presidency of Gene Strong and Bill Leahy, who was transferred to Chicago about the middle of the year. 
A letter from President Bert Coughlin informs me of a board meeting last Tuesday (maybe we had tetter make that Board of Directors meeting) last Tuesday night, but I didn't have an opportun­
ity to call him for the story on the meeting. Get 
it next time. 
Unforunately I missed the Communion Break­
fast on March 10, but Bert tells me it vras tvell 
attended by Vincc Gorrilla. Al Fhaneuf. Matt 
Wvis, Bun Crowley* Bert Coughlin. Fred McNeill, 
Paul Fchliff, Joe McGlynn. W, H. White. Lou 
Fchlie. Fred AVcbcr, Fran Kenncdj*, Bob Wilson, 
Bob HcIlrunfT. Jcrrj- Arnold. Joe McCarthy, Jack 
Griffin. Jack Sullivan, Dan Sexton, Dutch Wrapc, 
John Corlcy, Frank Finncf;an, Nifr Kennedy, Steve 
Richtarsic, C. A. Knoch. Al Ravarino, Frank 
Amato. and the chaplain. Father Ryan. 
Met Bob Hcllrung and his very attractive sister in the florist shop Easter Saturday and learned that he is late with his letter for this issue, too. Bob is working up to a fine frenzy over the tenth annual reunion of his class of '30 this June and although it isn't my class, he has me so en­thusiastic that I'll be there myself. 
I ran into Whitcy Gill, '33, over at the club taking a workout last month. He's travellimr for the Federal Government, in a legal capacity I be­lieve. George Bruno, '34, emerged from his hole long enough to attend the handball banquet at the Missouri Athletic Club last week, but he was too many tables away from me so I didn't get to talk to him. Incidentally. Brothers Strong, Mc-Dcrmott, and myself, all *34. reached the finals in various classes of the M.A.C. handball tourna­ment, and coincidentally enough, were all elimin­ated in spite of Mac's pre-game touting. 
Dick Kclley. '34. 

TUCSON, ARIZONA 
Vincent Hcngcsbach, ex. *27, P.O. Box 533. 
President; Ted A. Witz, ox. '29, Box 62S. 
Sccrctarj*. 

During the month of February the oflicers and executive board of the local club held a meeting at Paul Dufaud's home. We took care of all current business and ended with a regular jam session. 
Joseph C. Ryan, '24, returned to IHicson during the past month looking the picture of health. With a few weeks of the Arizona sunshine he'll be as good as e%-er. Paul Dufaud has improved suffi­ciently to oversee the construction of a small apartment. 
We heard from Paul Shritke up in Tempe. Arizona, where he is taking some classes at the college there. We expect htm to drop in and see us when he gets to Tucson. 
Christopher A. Rcilly is the proud father of a girl, Carol Ann, l>orn January 7. Ted Witz. 
TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
Joseph R. Schrocdcr, *3I. 604 Builders Ex­
change Bldg.. Minneapolis, President; Gerald 
E. McKay, '30, 5512 llth Ave., S., Minne­apolis. Secretary. 

At last reports the TSvin City contingent had just had a well attended and enthusiastic meeting at which a report was read on the highly success­ful Christmas dance. Flans were started for the Universal Notre Dame Night observance and three members of a new Placement Committee were appointed by President Joe Schrocdcr. They are Jack Yclland, Jack Doyle and Louis Regan, all fiom Minneapolis. Three other members of the committee, from St. Paul, were to be added later. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA John J. Ryan, '26. 6345 Morrowficid Ave., Pittsburgh. President; J. Vincent Burke, 
• Jr., '33, 6938 Edgerton Ave.. Pittsburgh, Secretarj-. 
During the past two months the club has been making a considerable effort to establish them­selves into some definite sort of an organization. so that we can embark upon a program which will be mutually helpful to all the memVers. With this in mind a new set of by-laws was drafted and presented to the members at a meeting in the Pittsburgh Athletic Association on Sunday, March 
3. The meeting was preceded by a breakfast, after which the by-laws were voted upon and accepted. The response was surprising, there being some 75 members there, at least half of whom were comparative strangers. It is sincerely hoped that they will become regular members now. 
Among those present were Ed O'Connor, W. J. Andres; Bill Hcyl, Bill Ginder, Jim Dodson. Eddie Hallaucr, w*ho came all the way from Aliquippa to attend: John Pavlick, John Fcrcnce. Allen Fclts. Joe DiMattco. Earl Bricger, Bob O'Brien and Dr. Frank Haggcrty. The more recent grad­uates were represented by Jack McGovem, Jack Montevcrdc, Bill Sixsmith and Tom Cronin. Among the representatives of the older group were Al Dicbold. Bill Stcitz, Bud Boylc, Leo Vogel and Vin Sweeney. 
No other business was discussed at the meeting, although it was decided to make the Sunday morn­ing breakfasts a more frequent occurrence so that we can get the members together more often-
No plans have as yet l>een formulated for Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, but you can be assured that Western Pennsylvania will have an appro­priate celebration. 
Saw Rudy Crinkovic one day last week and exacted a promise from him to attend the lunch­eon. Joe Bach was a recent visitor, stopping on his return trip from the Coast. Hugh Gallagher, one of our most active members, is now con­nected with the Internal Revenue Department of 

BALFE, EICHENLAUB LEAD '40 SLATE 
(Continued from Page 181) 

the limelight, which has only been over­come by direct demands on their talents by Notre Dame. These demands are always met, cheerfully and ably. 
For Second Vice-President 

The second vice-president this year was charged with the job of studying possible improvements in the Clubs. It would be hard to pick two better live-wires to promote this field than the pro­posed candidates. 
E. Bradley Bailey, '23, Philadelphia advertising man, is one of those persons gifted by nature with a promoter's in­stinct of the better type. Ed has been behind many of the Philadelphia Club's recent programs. With nine children, he leads the slate, although the par for this year's ticket is high. Ed is the new secretary of the Philadelphia Club. 
Thomas F. Byrne, '28, Cleveland, would undoubtedly disclaim any talent for promotion. But in a peculiarly effec­tive way, Tom has quietly but rapidly and successfully done things to quite a combination of objectives, leaders among whom are the Ohio Bell Tel. Co. and the Notre Dame Club of Cleve­land. Of the younger school of alumni, Tom has that modem maturity of alumni thought so happily heralded. 
Both these young men have had Club experience. Both are idea men. Both have aggressive but common-sense view­points. 

Director for 4-Year Term 

Walter Duncan, '12, is not a new 
the U. S. Government. Another Notre Dame G-man. Georse Sdtill. is still following fires al* though now he gets paid for it. 
Vince Bnrke. 

WEST VIRGINIA 
James A. MmBoj, *30, 3824 Staunton Ave,, Charleston. President: John CacUey, *37, 1521 Lee St , Charleston. SecretaiT-
Coach Paul Smith's Sacred Heart high school basketball team won the State Catholic tourna­ment held here during the second week of March. They will comi>ete In the national Catholic tour­ney in Chicago. 
Plans are being made for the annual banqfuet to be held on Universal Notre Dame Night. Pres­ident Jim Mallor has appointed Bill Kenney as general chairman. 
Mike O'Connor, formerly of Indianapolis, is now working in South Charleston for the Carbide and Carbon Chemical Corporation. He was one of three judges in the recent State Catholic basket­ball tournament. 
Paul Schwab is also a new member of the local club. He came down from Wheeling to work in the accounting department of E. I. duFbnt de Nemours and Co. 
Jim McQaain has recently moved back to Charleston. He is employed by Carbide and Carbon Chemical Corporation. 
John Cackley. 

figure in Alumni Association activities. Away back when we had a treasury, and a more Franciscan attitude toward the wolf at the door, Walter was the faith­ful and efficient treasurer of the Associ­ation. Numerous activities in LaSalle, 111., keep Walter busy, but not too busy to keep in touch with Notre Dame. Walter Jr., '38, was a recent close as­sociation. Walter's business keeps him a visitor among a number of Clubs. 
William J. Mooney, whole legal prow­ess of 1915 is the background for a very successful wholesale drug business, has been a pillar of the Indianapolis alumni since graduation. A roommate of Harry Scott, and a cousin of Jim Deery, it would, of coarse, be useless for Bill to try to get away from Notre Dame influence. Bill has been an active civic figure, and a credit to Notre Dame in a city where competition in this direc­tion has been unusually keen. 
Again, in these nominations, the Com­mittees present two men excellently qualified for the office, both with Notre Dame records as well as personal and professional records of high caliber. 
It is going to be particularly difficult this year to make a selection, and to realize that half this excellent group must be temporarily lost to the official roster. Luckily, these men have long since contributed far beyond the reward of office, and the recognition given by the nomination will be interpreted as only a gesture of appreciation from the Committees. In the election, all the can­didates will join the ALUMNUS in a feel­ing of satisfaction that the Association, again, can't lose. 


» » »



THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Gertrude M. Buckley and Leo V. Schiavonc, '32, of Chicago. 
Miss Mary L. Fire and Sam L. Stolorow, ex. '35, of Pontine, Mich-
Miss Mary Anne Jameson and Albert J. Schwartz, '37. 
Miss Mildred Froning, daughter of Prof. H. B. Froning. and Raymond A- Hcrrly, '36, of Mish­awaka, Ind. 
Marriages 
Miss Esther Lorraine Cogswell and John W. Conboy, '28, -were married, March 16, in Wabash, Ind. 

Births 
Mr. and Mrs. John S. Brennan, '24, announce the birth of a son, March 8, in South Bend. 
A son. Urban Joseph, was bom to Mr, and Mrs. Urban Hubert, ex. '24, on December 29, in Detroit. 
Mr. and Mrs Stephen C Corboy, '25, announce the birth of a daughter, Catherine Ann, on Jan­uary 17, in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. Charles Short, '28, announce the birth of a son, John Charles, II, in Harris­burg, Pa. 
A son was bom to Mr. and IXrs. Louis C Chaplean, '30, on March 12, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Lonis Chawgo, *33, announce the birth of a daughter, on February 15, in Aurora, III. 
A daughter, Maurin Jude, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Maurice J. Dewald, *33, on March 20, in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
A son, Robert, Jr., was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Hamilton, '34, on Mardi 13, in Racine, Wis. 
Mr. and Mrs. Sigmnnd J. Slnszka, '35. an­nounce the birth of a son, on February 24, in Garden City, Long Island. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Robert Kenline, *35, on February 22, in Dubuque, Iowa. 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Morley, '35, announce the birth of a son, John F., Jr., on February 1, in Chicago. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. George 

A. Binder, *36, on February 14, in Gary, Ind. 
A son, William George, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. William J. McCralcy, '36, on February 2G, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles C Borowsld, '38. an­nounce the birth of a son, Richard Charles, on March 9, in South Bend. 

Deaths 
George M. Anson, '95, individually and through his family one of the University's most generous and most devoted benefactors, died on Mardt 12 in Miami, Florida. He was buried in Stevens Point, Vns., with Father J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, as the c»2le­brant of the funeral Mass. Frank W. Lloyd, comptroller of the University, also represented Notre Dame at the services. 
The Leonard M. Anson Memorial Scholarship of ?100,000, established in 1928 by the Anson family in meraoo* of the father of George Anson, provides full expenses for four years for young men from Merrill, Wis., and its environs. One student is selected each year. 
A monogram-winning football player and base­ball player in 1894-95, Mr. Anson maintained an intense interest in the welfare of the University, culminating in the scholarship endowment of his family in 192S. Mr. Anson himself was a Kotre Dame lay trustee until 1937; when ill health caused his resignation. In that capacity he con­tributed generously of his time and his wide ex­perience and marked talents for the betterment of the school. His death leaves a wide gap in the ranks of Notre Dame's moat ardent supporters. 
Two of Mr, Anson's nephews are graduates of the University: Leonard .Anson Donoghue. '32, and F. Edmund Donoghue, '36. 
Hugh J. Daly, LL.B. '12, of Chicago, during his student days and afterward one of the most popular and loyal of Notre Dame men, died in Chicago in early March after a long illness. His funeral was held on March 9, with the Mass in St. Mary's Church, 9th St. and Wabash Ave., and burial in Mt. Olivet Cemetery, 
Surviving Hugh arc his wife, a son and a daughter, his mother and a sister. 
Rev. Casimir B. Smogor, a student at Kotre Dame in the 90*s, died on March 16 in Steuben­viUe, Ohio, where he was pastor of St. Stanislaus Bishop and Martyr Church. Father Smogor had been suffering from a heart ailment for t^vo and half years. He was widely known as an ardent student of the Polish language. 
Antonio J. Provost, well known on the campus in the 20's as a teacher of French, died recently, according to the "Religious Bulletin." Professor Provost taught at Boston College after leaving Notre Dame. 
The "Alumnus" has received, through the Presi­dent's Office, sad word of the death of Joseph J. Hcbert, B.C.S., '28, Beaumont, Texas. Tommy Green. '27, Conroe, Texas, bad notified Father Hu ^ O'Donnell. Details of Joe's death are unfor­tunately lacking. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Rev. James H. Gallagan, C.S.G., *0B. and William 
F. Gallagan, '24, upon the death of their step­mother: Rev. E. Vincent Mooney, CS.C, '16. upon the death of his mother; Robert J. Hauer, '34. upon the death of his father: Francis M. '32. and Harold V. Marlcy, '37,upon the death of their mother; Leo Hofscfaneider, '36, upon the death of his father; Harold O'Connor, '32, upon the death of his father. 

Personals 
Before 1890 Camp, New Orleans. La. 
1 0OA OO ^^-^' -^ MacNamara. '97, IO'W"TT Saint Joseph's SaniUrinm, Mount Clemens, Michigan. 
50-yEAR REUNION 
Class of 1890 May 31, June I and 2 

1 9flfl-flil ?°^-':-^ ?£°5'°''-1"*!. No^Eer 
Building, Elkhart, Indiana. 

lOnC n o I^T- Thomas E. Burke, C-S.a, 
I TU9"UT *07. Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Rer. M. L. Morlarty, 1900 EucUd 1910 Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 
Dr. Leo Gregoo' Christian, physician, is a member of the Michigcm Social Welfare Commis­sion, according to recent word. Dr. Christian has long been identified with progressive legisla­tion, affecting, and organization of. medical prac­tice in his adopted State of Michigan. 
Born in Randolph County. Missouri, he attended and graduated from the Moberly (Missouri) High School. In 1906 he matriculated at Notre Dame, completing the first two years of his medical course. He completed his medical training in 1912 at St. Louis University. 
From 1913 to 1922, he practiced medicine in Houghton County, Michigan's mining country, establishing practice in Lansing in 1922, where he has maintained residence since. 
For many years Dr. Christian has been a mem­ber of the legislative committee of the Michigan Medical Society and much of the credit for legis­lation setting up sound standards of medical prac­tice con be traced to his efforts. 
He is at present a delegate to the American Medical Association, is president of the Ingham County (Lansing) Medical Society, and is a Fellow of the American College of Physicians. 
He is married and the father of four children. 
I P I 1 Fred Steers, 1666 First National Bank 
I'll Building, Chicago, Illinais. 
1019 B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St, Fitts-
I 7 I A burgh, Pennsylvania. 
I P I 9 P'°} ^ Byrne, University Library, 
1 7 1 ^ Notre Dame, Indiana. 
|A| ^ IVank H. Hayes, 642 Third ATC., Chula Vista, California. 
I pic James E. Ssnford, 3725 Clinton Are., Berwn, Illinois. 


25-yEAR REUNION 

Class of I9i5 May 31, June I and 2 

From Jim Sanford: ;; 
"That photograph on the Spotlight Alumni Z. page of the March 'Alumnus* is a reminder to the 
class that this year we celebrate our Silver Anni­versary and Notre Dame will be waiting with open arms to welcome us the week-end of May 31 and June 1 and 2. You will receive a personal letter on the subject within the next few weeks, but in the meantime make your plans to be present and renew the old and dear friendships that you established so many years ago on the campus. 
**No better committee could "be chosen than the group that represented the class in 1925. so the secretary is taking the liberty of appointing the following to work out plans for the reunion: Ray KcUy, Mark Duncan, Ray Eichcniaub, AValter Clements, Leo Welch. Bob Roach, Rcr. Patrick Dolan, C.S.C.. Larn* Lajoic. and John McShane. 
"Wc are interested in bringing back a large representation of old students and short course students of those years and extend a cordial invi­tation to all of them to join with us in making this an enjoyable occasion. 
"We included Mark Duncan in our committee in recognition of his contributions of time and effort in behalf of the class in past years. He !s now at TJ. S. Veterans* Hospital. Hincs, 111., fighting valiantly to overcome a serious illness that has confined him for se%'eral years. 
"Ed Foley, old student of our time, is with 

A. B. Dick Company, 720 W. Jackson Blvd.. Chi-CT-go. He writes that he is planning to be with us at Commencement, so we'll start the roll call with his name." 
IQISi Timothy P. Galvin. First Trust Bnild-I 7 l, 0 ing, Hammond, Indiana. 
The Class Secretary was the chief speaker at the dinner of the South Bend Hibernian Society on St. Patrick's Day. Frank CoughUn, '21, South Bend attorney, and Rev. Cornelius Haeerty, C.S.C., '06, were likewise on the program. John Bcrgan, *31. secretary, was in general charge of arrangements. 
mt%^^ Edward J. McOsker. 3309 Falrmonnt I 7 I # Blvd.. Cleveland Heights, Ohio. 
The Class Secretary, himself, crashes through with the important news that he has been trans­ferred from the Chicago office to the Cleveland office of the McGraw-Hill Publishing Co.. and that he is now living at 3309 Fairmount Blvd., Cleve­land Heights. Says Ed further: 
**I learned last night that my classmate, Stan Cofall, is a near neighbor. I have met Gene Kane, '14. on the street, and in church one Sun­day last month I ran into Bob Daly, KE. *16. of New York, and his wife. Bob was here for American Radiator at the Air Conditioning Show. One of my office mates met Fritz Slackford at a party, and I got a glimpse of Ray Miller at Mass at St. Ann's Church, which I attend. 
"We'd be happy to have any N.D. boys around Cleveland (and their wives, of course) drop in on us." 
Comes a welcome letter from one of South Bend's leading citizens, Bemie Voll, president of the Sibley Machine and Foundry Corporation: 
"Each time the 'Alumnus' comes out I think I will make good on a promise I made to Danny Hitgartncr and write you a "letter recounting visits with some of the '17 men. Here is the letter. 
"Starting with the latest information — I have a letter from Oscar Dorwin, who. incidentally, is high up in the Legal Department of the Texas Corporation with offices in New York City, telling of a recent trip to Europe via the Pan American Airways. 
"It seems that his business was largely in France but that he had opportunities to stop in Italy. Spain, and Portugal as well, and after four weeks abroad he returned by boat. He has promised to stop in South Bend in the near future and tell us what he saw of war conditions in Europe. 
"Howard Parker takes his pen in hand about once each year and gives ns the 'low-down* on San Francisco and its environs. Lately, however, it has been mostly about the antics of two young Parker boys who have arrived in his household during the last four years. 
"The football season, as you might well expect, is productive of opportunities to meet many of our old friends and classmates. 
"The Southern California game, bringing back Old Hmers as it did, included our class, and you have already covered this group in the 'Alumnus.* 
"The week before, however, at the Northwestern game I ran into Harry Scott, who had most of his family with him, but because of the weather he was in such a hurry to get back to Indianapolis that he could not stop. Harry has a son in the freshman class at Notre Dame this year. 
"After the Purdue game we had a grand re­union at our house which included Freddie Mahaf­fcy and his brother and their wives from Indian­apolis. Austin McNichoIs and his wife from Chi­cago, and Paul Fogarty (Rube Appleberry) with a friend on his arm, I think, with other friends who came in, there were about 15 of us, and we had a great time listening to Mahaffcy and Mc­NichoIs and Fogarty doing their stuff with the stories. Danny Hilgartner usually makes it once or twice during the season but I think the presi­dency of the Alumni Association has kept him busy on his visits and he didn't have quite so much time at his disposal. 
"The Ed Mcchans and ourselves went to Pitts­burgh for the Carnegie Tech game and were en­tertained quite royally by the Leo Vogels. Since-that time I understand Leo has been ill, but has fully recovered his health at this writing. 
"We missed Dr. Leo G'DonncII, but I under­stand he was taking care of Elmer, which ac­counts for his not being at the smoker. 
"As we entered the Pitt stadium who should practically jump on my back but Bob Bums, Penn Yan, N. Y. Bob hails from Rochester and, unless looks deceive, he is a very prosperous den­tist. Just as a memorj' refresher. Bob was at Notre Dame with the McAdams, who also hail from Penn Yan. 
"From Pittsburgh we went on to New York and picked up the Army game for the following week­end. I think the Notre Dame rally the night be­fore tJie game was the largest, and perhaps the noisiest, one I have ever attended. It was cer­tainly a huge success and for many it was really going back 25 years. Ed Bcckman, whom I had not seen since our days together on the campus, arranged the table, through Oscar Dorwin. Be­sides Ed and Dorwin we had 'Shorty* 3IcLanghlin and Ward Pcrrott-I think very few of the men today, and perhaps some in our time, realize that Ward Perrott founded the organization known ns the Glee Club and, if memory serves me correctly, I believe our first appearances were in the winter of 191G. AVard Perrott is recognizable at the first glance and the years have apparently treated him rather kindly. The same thing, I think, can be said of Beckman and McLaughlin. 
"This letter is going to be conspicuous because of omis.sions. During the past several months, it seems to me that I must have met or heard from nearly half of our class. However, since I do not keep a diars* and neglect to wTite the 'Alumnus* at the proper time I forget much that should be recorded. 
"One thing not to be overlooked is the fact that Paul Fogarty was one of the oustanding per­formers at the annual Football Banquet in De­cember, and, in my judgment, qualifies as a toastmaster for that affair. 
"A sad bit of news, which concerns one of our old classmates, a former journalist, Panl AGefeld, of Frankfort, Ind. I have just recently learned that he is practically blind from the effects of cataracts and that he is very soon to have an oiHiration on one eye in the hope that his si^ t may be partially restored. He is at the same old stand in Frankfort, and I am quite certain would appreciate hearing from any of his old friends. 
"Jim. one would scarcely believe from the activ­ity which is carried on by our class in the 'Alumnus' that we have a distinguished set of journalists who were Professor Cooney's first graduates and who have been successful during the past 20 years in their chosen profession. Have the typewriters fallen into disuse? 
"Will a lot of others who have not been heard from in years please take a bint and write you or Cd McOsker a letter so that the rest of us can learn what has happened to them." 
1 Ql Q J°^ ^' Lemmer, 901 Lake Shore Drive, Escanaba, Slichigan. 
|A| Q Badei 650 Pierce Street,
Clarence Bader, Gary, Indiana. 
Leo B. Ward,

1991 1 ^ ^ ^^'^* ^?^^ Black BIdff., Lot
Angeles, California. 



20-yEAR REUNION Class of 1920 May 31, June I and 2 
Dan W. Daffy. 1600 Terminal Tower,

1921 Cleveland, Ohio. 
1922 
New Yoric 

From Kid Ashe: 
"William A. A. (Bill) Castellini who came to Philadelphia by way of Cincinnati, recently was elected president of the Notre Dame Club of Phil­adelphia. Bill is director of public relations for the Franklin Institute, a famed Philadelphia in­stitution. Bill lives in Cynwyd, Fa., a suburb of Philadelphia. He is married, and has a charming wife, and children three — a son and two daugh­ters. 
"Slartin Brennan is manager of the Buffalo division of the Great Lakes Dredging and Dock Co., with offices in the Morgan Building, Buffalo. 
"The old trouper — Frank (Perce) Connolly is still a trouper. He is now traveling in the south Atlantic states as a representaUve of the Indepen­dent Pneumatic Tire and Tool Co. He works out of Philadelphia. You, perhaps, recall how Perce would inspire us with his violin solos just before we went to face our examinations back at Notre Dame. If there was any hope for as before Perce started playing his violin, ~ there was no hope afterwards. 
"Another ex-citizen of Cincinnati who has made the grade, and then some, in Philadelphia, is Bill Daly-This Bill is local manager of the Worth­ington Pump Co. 
"Paul Malcahy is in the insurance bu^ness in Auburn, N. Y. 
"Identified with the motion picture industry In Hollywood is Harry Denny, but we are unable to state what company he is associated ^vith. Harry was the director of one of the super dance or­chestras of the early twenties. 
"Accordinc to last reports, Fabian Mudd was in the dry goods business in San Diego, and Gene Hcidclman was in the oil business in Los An« geles. 
"This department may have to resort to the giving of premiunjs — cereal dishes, etc., for news of its industrious but ultra modest members." 
Paul H. Castner, 37 South Are., New 1923 Canaan, Connecticut. 
From Mike Seyfrit: 
"I wish to thank you for the statement of the case of The People vs. Paul Castner, which ap­peared in the March issue of the 'Alumnus.' I still have not heard from Castner but I am sure that the publicity which you gave us will produce results. 
"I have already received a letter from Lyie E. Miller, who attended Law School and who ^vas a member of the class of '23. Lyle is the city attorn ncy of Vincennes, Ind., having taken over that ofHce on January 1, 1939, after managinff the city campaign and electing the entire Democratic ticket. 
Lyle has also ser\-ed four years as prosecuting attorney of the T%velfth Judicial Circuit of Indi­ana. He is married and Is the father of three children. His son was bom on November 18, 1939, and he expects to enroll him in Notre Dame in the class of 1957. He thinks the child will wax and grow strong and become a fullback and I have agreed to come to South Bend and sit with Lyle at that distant date and watch his off­spring perform. 
*'LyIe is located at 213 LaPlante Building, Vin­cennes, Ind., and will be glad to hear from any of the old gang. 
"If you can continue to give us some space in the '23 column, I believe that most of the fellows will respond and I promise you that I will pass along any information that I may obtain." 
From Mike Seyfriti 
Ee: The People (Class '23) vs. Paul Castner (Class Sec) 
"Our learned class secretary sUll refuses to answer or demure to the allegations contained in the last issue of the 'Alumnus.* I received a letter from Kid Ashe, the very fine secretary of the class of '22 and who always has a lot of news in his column. 
"He wrote me concerning a ball game that we played in the long ago and the following is his letter: 
" 'It is still alleged by many persons still alive that one Mike Seyfrit, as pitcher for a baseball team known as Father Connie Hagerty's "Wild Cats," after due deliberation tried to dust off Brother Agatho with a bean ball in a baseball game between the aforementioned "Wild Cats*' and the good brothers of Dujarie Hall played at N.D. in the early twenties. It was only after many lo^cal and forceful arguments had been made by Father Connie Hagerty in behalf of the offending pitcher and a definite promise exacted from Father Connie that the cannibalistic tendencies of pitcher Seyfrit would be curbed, that the game was permitted to continue to completion.'" 
^OO A J> F> Hayes. Wm. S, Pcdrick and I T& t Co., International Bldg., Rockefeller Center, New York City. 
«09 C John P . Hurley, 2085 Brookdale Boad, I 7A 9 Toledo, Ohio. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 



IB-YEAR REUNION 
Class of 1925 May 31, June I and 2 

From John Hurley: 
"Thirty-five of the class of '25 to date have mailed in their 'acceptances* to our R,S.V.P. for our 15th reunion. Only nine have sent their 'regrets.' On this basis, and according to the statistics of the various sample ballot polls, there is no question that we will have the largest at­tended 15tih reunion in Notre Dame history. Again we repeat the reunion dates — May 31, June 1 and 2. 
'*We wish at this time to extend an invitation to the classes of '24 and '26 to join the class of '25 in the Saturday luncheon in the faculty din­ing room. This party was successfully initiated by Bob Riordan and the class of '24 last year. 
"Here is a partial list of those who ^vill attend the reunion, w*ith news of their whereabouts: 
**CIarcnce Bunce (4 children). Present job is. Order and Claim DepL, Bastian-Morley Co,. Inc., I,aPorte, Ind. With them since graduation. Mfgrs. of gas and electric water heaters and gas­fircd heating equipment for Cnme Co. 
"Frank Steel (2 boys). Attorney, 634 Second National BIdg., Akron, Ohio. 
"Harold Watson (2 sons). State agent. Globe and Rutgers Fire Ins. (To.. Milwaukee, Wis. 
"George £. Lndwig (3 children). Michigan Consolidated Gas Co. Superintendent of Service, Grand Bapids. Gen Sup'L, Ann Arbor. 'The big news is the 15th year reunion.' 
"Willard Jones (4 children). Jones Rmeral Home, Dixon. 111. 
"Joe Toolen, 5010 Winthrop Ave., Indianapolis. 'Present job is strenuous, but not so much so that it will prevent me from bdng on hand at our re­union. Will be glad to help round up the boys.* 
"Maurice Boland, 2128 Curdes Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 'Duke Clancy is back in Indianapolis. Paul Sagstetter. General l^re & Rubber Company. 1701 
S. Clinton St., Fort Wayne, Ind.' 
"Henry Wunter (4 children). President of Blackhawk Hotels (3o-, Davenport, Iowa. 
"Dave Murphy (4 children). Doctor of Medi­cine, Dixon. 111. 'Walter Condon's address is 
R.F.D. Rock Falls. Ill-* 

"Edward Ryan (2 children), lavr and Banking, Valparaiso, Ind. 'AVill be back for my first re­union attendance since '25.' 
"Lawrence T- Casey (2 children). Attorney, Batovia, N- Y. 
"John H. A. Whitman, Law librarian and In­structor of Law. 320 Howard Hall. Notre Dame. Ind. 
"J. B. Walters (wife). Attorney, 106 Citizens Bank BIdg.. Hammond, Ind. 'Charles de la Vcrgne, 
•25, in New Orleans — says law business is good.* 
"V. P. Fagan (wife). 305 S. Oak Park Ave., Oak Park, 111. Divisional Advertising Manager, 

•Sears Roebuck & Company. Chicago. "Ix>oking forward to seeing the old gang.' 
"Robert K. Goodow (2 children). 'Law n' keep­ing off relief. No news.' 915 Nelson Street, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
"C^uiries M. Slouch, Sandusky, Ohio. 'You're slipping. Hurley. Lindbergh left Roosevelt Field, New York 7:52 PJI . May 20, 1927. Landed Le Bourget Field, Paris, 10:42 PJI., May 21, 1927/ [Sec: 'So sorry.'] 

"Dr. Fabian Joseph Burke (6 children). 6042a Morganford. St. Louis. 'If Lindbergh flew the At­lantic in '25, it took a year for the news to get to St. Louis. [You're wrong, too — see above item.*] 
"William R. Bell (1 boy). 'Still a widower. With Taylor Instrument Company, Rochester, 
N. Y. Have been here 14 years. Had a card from Eddie Welch, addressed 340 N. Adams Blvd., Los Angeles.* 
"R. W. Worth (5 daughters). F*rest-0-Lite Battery (^.. Indianapolis. Ser\*ice Algr. and Mfg. Representative. 
"P. AL Pirchio (2 daughters, no sons!) 311 Engineering BIdg., Notre Dame U. 
"James W. Wrape (1 daughter). Attorney-at­law. Memphis, Tenn. 
"Walter Haecker (wife). B. F. Goodrich Rubber Ck>., Pittsburgh, Pa. 'Coming to reunion via Toledo.' 
"Stephen Ckirboy (1 daughter). Assistant to President, The Stmoniz Co. 'I'll bring John Ken­nelly if he can get away from his family.* 
"Gilbert E. Uhl (2 children). Bookkeeper. Stan­dard Oil Company. 1105 Cleveland Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
"Henry (Spike) McAdams (1 daughter). Special Representative for Jones and Laughlin Steel Corp. in New York. *See Jack Sheehan frequent­ly. Saw Paul Castner at N.Y.U. basketball game. Good to see Eddie Anderson and Frank Wallace also.' 230 Park Avenue, N. Y. 
"Paul Romwcber (2 sons) Batesville. Ind. 'Present job is — trj'ing to get orders.* 
"Ray DeCourscy. Still single. Office manager for Elmer I.arson, contractor, at Decatur, III. 'See Willard Jones of Dixon, and Vince Carney of Rochelle. Still on crutches following a broken leg but hope to be on my own legs before reunion.* 
' "John J. (Jack) Kane, Jr. (2 sons). Assistant Prosecuting Attorney, Mahoning County, Youngs­town, Ohio. 
"Thomas L. Goss (wife) Sales Super\-isor United States Gypsum Co., Germantown, Pa. 'Hope I can sec many of the boys that were freshmen in 1921. Contacting the boys in vicin­ity of Eastern Penn., Jersey, Delaware and Mary­land if at all possible before May 31.* 
"William C Hurley (single). Ufe Insurance. Equitable of New York. Saginaw, Mich. 
"Vincent Harrington (2 children). Member of (Congress. 'I'm against war, taxes and sin.' Wash­ington, D. C. 
"Paul Dooley (wife). Branch Mgr. Electrolux Corp. Toledo, Ohio. 'Dut Griffin's address, c-o Acme Fast Freight Lines, I15-12th Street, Detroit, Mich.; John Mahon, insurance business, Superior, 
•\Vis.; Dusty Reilly, Actuarial Dept., Metropolitan Life Ins., New York City; Paul Sagstetter, Gen­eral Hre & Rubber C^., Fort Wayne, Ind.' 
"John F. Kilkenny, Pendleton, Ore. Virginia (wife) one boy and one girl. Attorney. Says John Kennelly may be contacted through Bill Clemens in Kansas City. [Don't let John make pikers of you fellows who live close to Notre Dame.] 
"John A. BarUey, 70 Marble Hill Ave., New York City. "Wife and three daughters. Broker — Reynolds & Co., 120 Broadway. New York CSty. 'If possible.* 
"Ed Polhaus — Associated with Ford Motor Co. 'Looks as though you are organizing for a great reunion, John!' 
"The following are unahle to make the reunion hut list news: 
"Francis 'Bugs* Walthcr (2 children). 'Leading my orchestra (sometimes following them). Dick Barrett is in Memel, AVIs.; John Snakard trans* ferred around Christmas time from Chicago to New York for American Airlines, Inc.* 
"Frank A. Milbaucr (4 children). Sales man­ager, Essex Engraving Co., Newark. 'Thanks to Dr. Jerry Hayes, '26, I no longer weigh 310 pounds. "Wasted away to 235 pounds. Even my friends don*t know me.* 
"Joseph E. Fitzpatrick (wife). Assistant Trust Officer. The Florida National Bank & Trust Com­pany at Miami, Fla. 'No news — too much sea­son/ 
"Fran L .Kennedy (2 children). Physician and surgeon, specializing in ear, nose, and throat. 
•We have a well organized N. D. cluh in St. Louis.* 
'Arthur W. Sajiwski (1). Detailing Physicians for Eli Lilly & Co. Address: 3051 Logan Blvd., Chicago. 
"Charlie Donahue,-143 East 48th St., New York City. Manager, Merchandising Service of the New York 'News.* 'Celebrating 15th year with the "News.'* (Never could keep a steady joh).* 
"Brother Neil. C.S.C., Vincentian High School, Albany, N. Y. 'School closes June 28. Teaching. Our coaches are Joe Kuharich, '38, Joe Nardone, '39. Excellent records in football and basketball.' 
"Dick Fuite — Columbia Steel Co. (U. S. Steel), San Francisco, Calif. 'One wife — one wire-haired terrier. Jack Melley was last seen in the wilds of Oakland, Calif. He is a loan shark. Sorry, I won't be at the 15th reunion but it*s too darned far and too darned hot in June in South Bend.' [You'll miss a "hot" reunion tool We are sorry. Dick.] 
"Barney MacNab — Portland, Ore. Insurance Broker." 
VA^ f James A. Ronan, 127 Dearborn St.. Chicago, niinois. 
«A9< V Joseph M. Boland. Athletic Office. I T A ' Notre Dame. Indiana. 
1000 ^ols F. Buckler. 908 E. Cedar St . I T& D South Bend. Indiana. 
From Lou Buckley: "I fear your column would be a blank most of the time if it wasn't for the fine cooperation w-e have received during the past three years from the guest writers. Bill Dooley's card reminding me that copy for the 'Alumnus* is due seems to be the only alumni news I have received this month. I trust that our class treasurer and guest writer for this month, Joe Griffin, comes through with some copy to supplement this paragraph be­fore we go to press. 
"I do not believe that we have had a report from any of the fellows from Missouri in a long time. No doubt Carroll Pinklcy will favor -us with some news as the guest writer in the next issue. Carroll's address is Portageville. Missouri." 
Press Time Flash: See Page 207 for the Great Griffin's Grist. 
Congressman Boh Grant, of South Bend,- was the speaker-in-chief at the recent annual testi­monial athletic banquet of the South Bend area C- Y. O. Joe Boland, '27. assistant football coach, was another speaker and Attorney Joe Nyikos was the toastmaster. Representing the clergy were Father George Szymanowski. C.S.C., 
*31, who gave the invocation, and Father Stanis­laus Kusz}-nski. C.S.C.. '15, who gave the address of welcome. General chairman of the banquet was Ted Prekowitz, '36. 
John MdVIahon, in Pittsburgh, thoughtfully relayed to the Alumni Office a clipping which told of Jim Cullcn's new job as acting postmaster of Sayre, Pa. (Sayre is John's "home toiivn," in case you*ve forgotten.) Jim is an attorney in Sayre and former chairman of the Bradford County Democratic Committee. 
1090 ^**^P^ P- McNamara, Attorney Gtu-
I MmtM eral Office, IndlanapollB. Indiana. 
The ties between the Army and Notre 
Dame are drawn even closer with the an­
nouncement that Paul McElroy, of "Jug­
gler" art fame (like his brother Wilbur* 
'26), is engaged in doing a series of oil 

.paintings for the Officers' Cluh at West 
Point. Harlcy McDevitt, of the "National 
Geographic Magazine," recently visited 
with Paul and reports that ". . . it Is 
really a beautiful job and from all appear­
ances Paul has won over the Army, as the 
officers seem to be very fond of him." 

10^ A ^^^ ^ Hellrung, Humboldt BnUding. St. Louis, MiftsonrL 
IO-YEAR REUNION 
Class of 1930 May 31, June 1 and 2 

The February Issue of the VlUanova "Alumnus" has a distinctly Notre Dame flavor. One page contains a tribute to Clipper Smith and Vince McKally, who had decided to continue in the di­rection of Vlllanova's athletics. And the leading article in the Issue is by Dr. Harold F. Hartman, 
— an excellent examination of present govern­mental processes in England entitled "Another Test of English Rights." Harold got his MJV. and Ph.D. at Cornell and has been teaching at Villanova since 193S. 
Leo Scanlon, Bucynis, Ohio, prosecuting attor­ney of Crawford (^unty, provided a grand dis­play of the right spirit when he wrote to the Registrar to have catalogs sent to three local high school boys to whom he had been telling the Notre Dame story. 
From Bob Hellrung: 
"Hold everj'thing! Cease . . . stop . . . desist. I'm talking about the avalanche of Easter greet­ings which has just snowed me under. AVhcn It rains it pours, but, when it doesn't rain, we have a draught. I don't know which is worse for a correspondent. 
"Yet this is very touching, and very Interesting, receiving such a flood of good wishes, and such an ovenivhelming amount of news from the fel­lows you used to live with and work with at Notre Dame, from 10 to 14 years ago. 
"It is fascinating to see how they have devel­oped and branched out into different walks of life .. . most of them married and boasting of fam­ilies .. . children ranging in ages from eight years to a few weeks. Some are carrying on in the business of their fathers . . . some haire started business of their own. . . . Some are sell­ing, others are auditing, adjusting, teaching, clerking, judging, managing, promoting, planning, counseling, building, coaching or prosecuting. 
"AH ha\*e been busy during the past 10 years making a living; and all have had an abundance of exi>erlences In common. All have Ideas to ex­change, and all are eager to learn about the careers of the others. 
"This brings us up to Friday, May 31, the first day of the ten-year reunion on the campus. What a lot of 'bull' Is going to be 'slung.' But seri­ously, what a wealth of material there is goins: to be for discussion. \Vhat a splendid spot for discussing new Ideas and new opiwrtunities in business. 
"One suggestion just received called for a meet­ing of Thirty engineers to discuss problems and new methods. "Why shouldn't this be a good idea, and one which the la^vye^s, doctors, salesmen, in­surance men, retail merchants and others would want to follow? Such a 'bull session' -would pay dividends. 
"The suggestion received most frequently for the success of the reunion party is 'have a good attendance, and the party will take care of itself.' Well, gentlemen, our worries are over because, from the Information which the little blue bird brought in on the Eister greeUngs. 90 per cent of the Thirties will be back on the campus to witness the cutting of the anniversary cake. 
"For instance, to quote that genial southern gentleman from VIcksburg, Bill AllUer, we Iiave .. . 'I want to say that it is my sincere hoiK and desire to be with you and my other many friends and fellow classmates of the year 1930 on the occasion of our tenth anniversary. Am enclosing the Easter Hme Surprise, and have started a separate little fund especially for tliat purpose.* 
" 'An analysis of the report will show that since 1934 I have moved over here to Jackson from Vickshurg, only 43 miles, and not too far to get back home quite often. From the letter head yon will notice I am In the home furnishing business. but even though the boss is rsxs father-in-law, I really have to work for a living.' 
" 'Enjoyed a visit from "Beer Baron, Don Malloy, just a couple of weeks ago. The first time in ten years, and I must confess he Is still the same 01' Smoothy. Which reminds me that Jack Nowery, of Houston, Texas, is a visitor here in Jackson at this time. . . . Fat as a pig, and the father of two youngsters. Speaking of Idds, reminds me that in the last "Alumnus," which, by the way, I have enjoyed tremendously .. . especially contributions, you were asking about our pal, John Dnbaisson.' 
" 'It was xny pleasure to see John some four years ago, the day he was married to one of our southern beauties of Monroe, La. Although the authenticity of this report Is not my responsibility, I believe he is now the father of three youngsters.' 
" 'Bob, I will endeavor to contact some of the other southern fellows and have a real Rd>el Crowd on hand for the festivities.* 
"Bill's letter was written on the stationery of the C. W. Jones Furniture Company of 120 South Congress Street. Jackson. Miss. He Is not doing so bad himself from the standpoint of off­spring, having two children. He has been marw ried since March 2, 1935. 
"At the bottom of Bill's letter, in the form of a footnote, is the following: 'Am^ planning on being at the reunion. So are Vic Hartzel, Art Kane. Hank Horka. etc Best regards, and we'll be seeing you. . . . The slander in Bill's letter is false. I'm not fat, — just boisterously robust. Jack Nowery, 6417 Rutgers St., Houston, Texas.* 
"It's about time you Rebels are bringing the s>-nthetic Shreveport boys. Hartzel, Kane, and Hoclu, back up into the Northland where they belong; and we're looking forward to seelns all of you at the reunion. 
"From our secretary, Bemie Conroy, comes word that he will be on deck for the fire-works. May 31. Bemie will journey from New Kensington, Pa., where he is connected with the State Em­ployment Service. (\\'hy should any Thirty he oat of wort, with the class secretary in a job like that?) Bemie was married October 26, 1938, and has one son, Donald, born Auffust 1, '39. 
"Chuck Smallwood will not break the precedent of havinc attended even* alumni Commencement party since J930. He and Jerry Holland and Art Petersen will represent the North Side of Chicaso. You can count on them. Smallwood is an architect with the Federal Housine Adminis­tration, 134 N. La Salle Street, Chicago. He has been married since February 14, 1931, and has three children. 
"Jerry Holland, that bachelor of science and former member of the Beaux Arts Institute of Design, is also with the F.H.A. at 134 North La Salle Street, Chicago. He is an inspector: married only a few years ago on October 6, 1937; and son Michael is only seven months old. 
"Art Petersen's motto now is . . . 'What Peter­sen promises Petersen does.' This slogan appears on the stationery of the Petersen Furniture Com­pany. 1046 Belmont Avenue. Chicago. Art is living in Evanston with his wife and three chil­dren, and apparently he wasted no time after leaving Notre Dame because he married Septem­ber 1, 1931, and Art, Jr., is now seven years old. After Art, Jr., came Anne who is three, and Robert who has just passed the furst milestone. 
"Zcno Staudt reports that he 'hopes' to attend the reunion; but just between you and me, he is one of the hoys from whom we will not take 'no' for an answer. There'll be trouble in Gtnton if he doesn't show up with his banjo, because he and Jon Bcljon, co-composers of 'My Prom Sweet­heart.' are scheduled to take charge of the music committee for the reunion . . . and we gotta have music. 
"Zeno is in the insurance business with his father, under the firm name of R, Z. Staudt & Son, 135 Sucth Street, N.W., Canton, Ohio. They are representing the Central Life Assurance So­ciety. Zeno was married April 21, 1936, and he and Mrs. Staudt have just recovered from cele­brating the arrival of their first child, Terry Fred, who was bom February 4, 1940. 

"While on the subject of music . . . Tom Ker­rigan, Pete Waiiis and Jerry Parker, officers of the 1930 Glee Club, will have charge of 'barber shop harmony,' and we want plenty of that, too. 
"We're going to need a band to play during the Softball game Saturday morning, June 1, when the Thirties will take on the Thirty-Fives for the Alumni 'Champeenship.' Harry Busscher, George Pope, Pat AIcLaughlin and Dick Nccson will see that we have plenty of noise and fanfare, and if we find Dan Barton to lead the cheers and jeers, we can't lose. 
"Joe Lordi will captain the softball team, and he asked me to notify all you softballers and ex-baseball stars to sharpen up your hatting eyes and get yourselves into condition for the big game. 
"Jack Cannon will be master of ceremonies at the Thirty Smoker, following the general alumni banquet, Saturday night. This will be the occa­sion for barber shop harmony, pool, billiards, ping-pong, pinochle, rummy, old fashion bull slinging, entertainment, and refreshments. Chuck Rohr will be Cannon's 'Mater D'Hote* at this affair. 
"Chuck, by the way, is busily engaged in the restaurant business in downtown Cleveland. If you are passing that way, just look for Rohr's, at 1111 Chester Avenue. Our rcstauranteur has been married since January 13, 1935. He has two boys and a charming wife. 
"Walt Langford was in St. Louis the other day, in the capacity of coach of the Notre Dame fencing team. I saw his aggregation give a good account of themselves in winning from Washing­ton University here. Besides teaching Spanish at the TIniversity, Walt is coaching fencing and tennis. He has been married since '31, and, if I. remember correctly, he has three children, the oldest of whom is seven years old. 

"After the fencing match, Walt and I had dinner together and held a confab regarding an arrangements committee and a general chairman for the reunion. My old roommate of Freshman Hall, Lou Haslcy, who is now with the English Department at Notre Dame and has been for eight or nine years, was unanimously elected general chairman in charge of arrangements. 
"Serving viith Hasley on this committee will be all Thirties living or working either on the cam­pus at Notre Dame or in South Bend. Included on the committee will be all members of the clergy of the Class of '30. who are stationed at N. D., together with Dick Sullivan, of the Department of English. Walt I^angford, Art Rcyniem, Lon Chaplcau, and Floyd Scarcr. 
"We just received Easter greetings from Chap-lead and Scarcr. X<ou is a member of the law firm of Farahaugh, Pettengill & Chaplcau, 301 Union Trust BIdg., South Bend; has been married since November 29, 1933, and has four' children. Searer is a trust officer with the Pirst Bank & Trust Company of South Bend. He was married in 1932 and has one child. 
"Two other villagers, or St. Joe Valley boys who will serve on the arrangements committee, are Harold Jennings and Fred Parent. Harold is with the Bcndix Brake Company of South Bend: was not married until New Year's Day of 1938 and has no children. Fred is assistant cashier for the Travelers Insurance Company in the Sherland Bldg.. South Bend. He was married June 14, 1932, and has four children . . . Tom, Phyllis, Butch, and Dick. He is certainly living up to his name. 
"Well, hoys, your correspondent could fill the rest of this magazine with the news and letters and Easter greetings which he has piled up around him here. But that would push the Thirty-Fives right out of the book . . . and they are ha\-ing a reunion, too; so in order to play fair, I'm going to have to hit the high spots from here on in. 
"One of these high spots will be a Mass cele­brated by one of our own Thirties, and a Com­munion Breakfast on Sunday morning, June 2. Another high spot of the program will be a sci­entific, yet very interesting demonstration of the germ-free techniques of Art Rcynicrs. 
"Bob Sweeney, now the Rev. Robert H. Sween­ey, C.S.C., sends word from Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C, where he is teaching, that he hopes to be present at the reunion. He was or­dained in 1934. 
"IMurray Hickcy Ley sends greetings from the Hickey Brothers Cigar Stores, 810 East 14th Street, Davenport. Iowa. He is not married and he sends the following suggestions for the reunion party: '. . . Nemo solus satis sapitl' So . , . Emphasize the crowd, the group, in all your plans! A very good reminder that will be carried out­
"Karl Brcnnan is now a district superintendent, associated with the W. T. Grant Company of 1441 Broadway, New York City. He has been married since April 16, 1934, and has two future half-hacks, one three years and the other seven months. In answer to his suggestions: '. . , If I can.be of any help will be glad to do it.' . . . my answer is, 'Round up the New York and Jer­sey boys and you will have helped in a big -way.' Thanks, KarL 
"Tom Brown, the A.B.er and Physical Ed.er, is still living in Norwalk, Ohio, and is coaching basketball and teaching in Cbllins, Ohio. He was just married December 28, 1938, and has no off­spring as yet. Give him time! 
"Marshall Kizcr, whom you will remember from the basketball court, is now the prosecuting attor­ney of Plymouth, Ind., so, if you are picked up for speeding to the reunion while going through Plymouth in June, I think we can 'fix* it. Mar­shall was married May 9, 1936, and has one bambino. 
"Sloan & Slick sent a combination Easter greet­ing with the notation, "We will bo there.' Both are living in Gas City, Ind., and both are married. Ed Slick is connected with the Slick Glass Cor­poration and has been married seven years. Bob Sloan was just married a few months ago, Octo­ber 12, 1939, and reports "No jackpot yet.' What does he expect? 
**John Dca is with the Texas Company of Min­neapolis, and is living in Green Bay, Wis., P. O. Box 661, He reports that he is still unwed after 10 years. Sounds like he wants mocking birds in his 50up. 
"Gerry McKay is selling for the National Cash Register Company in Minneapolis. He has been married since June 27, 19S6. but has had no luck in the children department. He suggesti: That proper time be set aside for a good bull session.* . . . and his wish shall be granted. 
"John Voss is still living in Elkhom. Wis., hut is connected with the TJ. S. Secret Service in Mil­waukee. He was married July 23, 1935, and has one daughter. John says: *I will attend the re­union, but this is not an absolute promise due to the very nature of my work; however, these arc my plans.* 
"Royal niggins has always been a radio 'bug.' nnd a good one. too. He is now in the business of manufacturing radios, with the HalHcrafters. Incorporated, of 2611 Indiana Avenue, Chicago. Royal was hard to catch until July 10, 1937, but he finally said 'yes,* nnd he is now the father of an eight-months-old daughter. 
"Tom Frost is doing Hg things for Sears Roe­buck & Company and St. Mary's. He is managing a Sears Farm Store at 412 Second Avenue, S., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and has two daughters. Mary nnd Elizabeth. He was married June 25, 1935. Tom wrote a very enthusiastic letter about the reunion which I would like to quote in Its entirety, but space will not permit. 
"Here is n bit of it: 'Notes from Karl Brennan and Gil Kirwan indicate they are planning on at­tending the reunion. In the near future* T will get letters off to Ed Redmond, Leo Kennelly, Don and Dan Sallivan, Art McCann and Ed I.avin in regard to our reunion.* Thanks, Tom. We'll see you May 31. Don't forget your golf clubs. 
"Bob Weschler, of the Weschler Company, Inc., of 924 State St., Erie, Pa„ is selling shoes, bags, hosiery, etc He has been married since Novem­ber 28, 1935, with no results. Bob writes as fol­lows: *Murray Ley and Tom Slurphy have been talking up this reunion function so that I can't afford to miss it. T have no suggestions, but if there's a ping-pong table In the Rockne Memorial, I'll give Murphy a beating at that game to com­pensate the shellacking he'll give me at golf.* You bring Tom Murphy, Bob, and we'll furnish the ping-pong table. 
"Paul Klciser is an engineer with the Indiana State Board of Health at 1098 W, Michigan St., Indianapolis. He, was married October 31, 1933. He has two children, ages 5 and 3. Flaul wants to know: 'If any 1930 Civils are coming to the reunion? They failed to show in 1935 and I would like to write to them regarding a "side­line" pow-wow.* Thanks for the 'pow-wow* sug­gestion, Paul. You'll hear from me later. 
"Tom Pnrcell, of the Northwestern Trust Com­pany Bank, 50 S. La Salle Street, Chicago, was 'hitched' October 28, 1933, and has two children, Diane, age 5'^, nnd Bill, age 3%. Tom has two suggestions for the reunion: 'First, keep Hooley Smith out of all bunco games, and, second no alcoholic beverages of any kind.' Thanks for the tips, Tom. 
"Harold Simpson, the manufacturer of protein feed, now of 3203 S. California Avenue, Chicago, will be a member of the Chicago delegation; while Paul Hamilton, the Goodyear Service man, will journey all the way from Niles, jNIich. Paul was married in 1931 nnd has one child. 
"Mort Goodman is attomcying for the FHA in Chicago at 134 N. La Satte Street. He has been married since October IS, 1933: has no children 'yet.' Sounds like he*s hopeful. Thanks for the offer of assistance, Mort . . . please bring that Chicago gang 'en masse.' 
"Dick Walter is another Chicagoan who will be among those present. He is now an oil chem­ist; was married June 5, 1937. and has one son two years old. 
"Gordon Lawlcr, the oil man with Cities Ser­vice, is living in Springfield. Til., at 525 E. Fine St. He was married, but he w*ouldn*t tell us when. Guess we'll have to Hnd that out May 31. He has no children, but that's no indication. 
"Gus Bondi sends greetings from Indianapolis, where he is managing a Metropolitan Life agency at 157 N. Illinois Ave. He has 25 men in his sales force. Gus is married and has been since Februan* 27. 1933, but has no children. He was general chairman of the Five-Year Beunion in '35 when he was living in South Bend, and he writes a very enthusiastic letter regarding the prospects of this year's party. Needless to say, Gus has been drafted for the arrangements com­mittee, and will have a leading part in the show. 
"Andy Aman has been running his father's jewelry store in Dayton, at 11 East 5th Street, since his father died last year. Andy and Mrs. Aman nre still celebrating the arrival of a new daughter bom February 19. and little baby sister has a brother 3 ^ years old. 
"Tom Kcegan. the barrister from Rockford, III,, who has been too busy for matrimony thus far, writes as follows: 'Success depends on attendance. Let's get everyone there for the reunion. "What to do when we get there is scarcely a problem. I'll undertake personally to stir up some of the fellows . -. letters, etc. That should help a Httlc.* Many thanks for them kind words, Tom, and I hope that every member of the class will follow suit by writing several fellow-members to say, 'Will you meet me at the reunion?' 
"Larry Cronin, the general insurance man of Etmira. N. Y., was married September 8. 1935; hbs one daughter and a question mark. He writes. 'I'll tell yon more about that ? in June; and in the event you don't hear from Ttm O'Routke, I am planning to make the trip with him.* We arc all curious. Larry, so be there Friday. May 31. 
"From the Chambers of Franklin County Judge and Surrogate. Malone, N, Y., comes word from the newly-wed Con Carey. He was married Au­gust 19 last and says he has no suggestions for the reunion, but that tliere should be fun enough in seeing some of the boys again. Them's my sentiments, too. Con. and we're all anxious to see you. 
"Bud Trainor, sales manager of the Trainer National Spring Co., of New Castle, Ind., came all the way over into the *Show Me* State on the ^8th day of November, 1934, to marry a Hannibal, Mo., girl by the name of Mary Leverington. Their only child is a little girl . . . Elizabeth Ann. Bud says rushing business may keep him away from the party, but I'll bet you ten to one he'll be there, with his golf clubs. 
"Al Shipacasse never misses. He'll be there this year, too. . We're depending on his rounding up the Cleveland gang, and he can do it. Al is the father of one daughter 2% years old. 

"Chuck Lcnnon is another regular who won't miss. He is n wholesale grocer and is running things for the Peter G. Lennon Company of 114 LaFayctte Street, Jollet, 111. Chuck is married and has two children. 
"Jack Elder, athletic director of the Chicago C.Y.O., 31 East Congress St., will be on hand with his golf clubs. Jack is unmarried. 
"Bob Eggcman, of the Fort Wayne law firm of Eggeman, Reed & Cleland, 1201 Old-First Bank Building, is still side-stepping the ladies with those long legs of his, and, after 10 years, he has only one niece to brag about. However, this is leap year. 
"Bob sends this short note: 'It certainly doesn't seem that almost 10 years have passed since leaving Notre Dame. I enclose the questionnaire received from Jim Armstrong, and you will un­doubtedly receive the same from Fred Schoppraan and Frank Corbctt, because I know that thej*. too, plan on attending the reunion in June.' 
"Jim McDcrmott will be down from Grand Rapids, Mich., where he is connected with Mc­Dermott & Sons, 402 Houseman Bldg. He has been married since 1936, and has one daughter. 
"Mario Ramacciotti, of Wheaton, III., is with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 164 Division Street, Elgin. 111. 'Ram' was married July 6, 1935, and has one son just six months old. 
"Art Dom'in is still in the old home town of Minocqua, Wis., where he is in the men's clothing business under the name of 'Art Dorwin's.' He was married at the early date of October, 1930, and son, Tommy, is already seven years old. while Jane is five and a half. 
"Jack Cassidy. the engineer from 'Rixedo Park, is selling laundry machinery in Washington, 
D. C, for the American Laundry Machinery Co., 1635 Connecticut Ave. On June 10. 1939. Jack and his wife sent out a very clever announcement, which read as follows: 'The House of Cassidy presents 'Jimraie.* The Eight Pound Extravagan­za of 1939, World Premiere — June 10. 1939. Production Manager. Jo . . . Managing Director. Jack.' They have been married since September 25. 1937. 
"Mike Bishko. of 34 Seris Place, Clifton, N. J., warns us that he will attend the party. Mike has been married since June 8, 1937, and has no bambinos to boast about. 
"Bcrnie Brocker sends us Easter greetings, and informs us that after April 10, we may address him in care of the office of the Secretary, Beth­lehem Steel Company, Bethlehem, Fa. Bemie has been practising law in New York CSty; has been married since 1934, and brags of one daughter. 
"All of the aforementioned gentlemen will ap­pear in top hat and tails at the ceremonial climax of the cutting of the Tenth Anniversary Cake. The following fellows will not be able to attend, for one reason or another. 
"Rc%*. Lawrence P. Sullivan. CS.C. Mission House, North Easton. Mass., will be unable to make the trip. 
"Dave Rcillcy. sales manager of the Trainor Company at 1625 Blake Street, Denver, Colo., writes: 'Sorry, but it is too long a journey.* Dave has been married since July 27, 1935. and has two children, 
"Art McCann is living in Pelham Manor, N. Y„ and is dealing in industrial real estate at 369 East 149th Street, Bronx, N. Y. He is still bacheloring and w*e can't understand w'hy he will be unable to make the reunion. However, he offers good suggestions: 'Get Eddie Redmond to send a couple of car loads of chickens from hia Midiigan chicken farm; get Toia Frost to act as a cook during Commencement week; get Eddie Lavin. Jack Cassidy, Tex Derby. Ted Abel. War­ren Foge], Jim Friel, BiU Walsh, Ray Reardon, Paul Heldkamp, and a few others from the class to serve as ^nging waiters, and I'm sure 100 per cent of the gang would show np.' 
"Many thanks for the suggestions. Art. The matter has already been referred to the committee. I have heard rumors to the effect that Tex Deifay and Bill WalA are with the United EVnit Com­pany, and it seems to me they could furnish the oranges, bananas, cranberries and everything else to go with that Redmond diicken . . . what do you say, boys? 
"Ed Conlcy, the Firestone Tire & Rubber man from Johnstown, Fa., says. 'Definitely can't get away at this time. Sorry for this, and sincerely trust that the old gang will have a couple for the absent brethren.' Ed was married in 1938 and has one daughter. 
"Jim Barry, who is assistant to Jim Farley in the post office department in Norwalk. Conn.. writes: 'Awfully sorry I can't be with you for the tenth reunion. Here is one for the bureau of mussing persons . . . the last reports of Jackson Sigler, have him with Armour & Company some* where in Iowa, probably Eureka. I heard also that Bucky Slack is w*ith General Foods, Inc., stationed in Detroit, but has some attraction in St. Louis about whom you probably know.* Thanks for the tip, Jim. This is the first I've heard of such an escapade, but I'll be on the lookout for Bucky the next time the villain comes to St. Louis to make love to one of our fair damsels. [Sigter's address, through Devere Pltm­kclt: Swift & Co., Atlantic, Iowa.—Eds.] 
"Handsome Freddie Davis claims that he will be unable to attend, but gives no particular rea­son. He is living at 650 Main St., New Rochelle, 
N. Y., and has been married since' 1937. His baby daughter may be the 'reason.' 
"Fred Cunningham is now with the Depart­ment of Agriculture, or the Federal Surplus Commodities Corporation of Portland, Ore. Fred was married in November, 1932. and has two sons, five and one. He says it's too much trip to South Bend. 
"Ran Sulli\'an, also of Portland, Ore., regret­fully says the same for himself and Felix Isher­wood. Ron is in the wholesale lumber business with the rest of the Sullivan family. The name of the firm is the Sullivan Lumber Co^ Board of Trade Bldg., Portland. He walked up the aisle to the altar in September of *36 and now has a son 2 ^ years, and a daughter 11 months. Ron sent no news about Isherwood. but perhaps Felix will break down himself and give ns a reports 
"Johnny Nanovic, editdT of 'The Shadow.* 'Doc Savage,* 'The Avenger.' 'Mystery Clues.' and other thrillers, is with Street and Smith Publications. Inc., 79 Seventh Avenue. New York. He writes. 'We were married in 1936. Yep I We have one tough guy, we call "Little" John. Sorry I can't , make the reunion. Arch Hurley, who was one of the "co-eds" with Jim Callahan and myself at St. Mary's, just phoned to say he's papa of an 8-pound boy. I beat him by two ounces .. . December, 193S .. . and he's almost as bif as I am now.* CongratulaUons to you both, Joiinny, and we hope that by May 30 you two can ar­range your affairs so that you can attend the big party. 
"Alt Dcnnehy of the Publicity Department of Warner Brothers Pictures at 321 West 44th Street, 
N. Y.. is still a bachelor and wants me to tell him how he can make it. I wonder what's tying him down. . . Do you think he's in love with, hit' job? Here's a suggestion. Art, turn on nm e of that Warner Brothers publicity stuff on Joiuuiy Nanovic. make it good and sell him on the idea of making the trip . . .then climb in with him. Get going! What are yon waitinff for? 
-.-^- *-;M>.-.--»J--K ^^^nj-j . a 
•-y--J^-^P-.-«^ -y k-g-l '?'J!'?^iri«ii>M'^t*;iSV:^OP 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Frank Lcdcrmann's job is a time study of meth­ods and standards for the Savage Arms Company of TTtica, N. Y. He was married November 7, 1934. and has three prospective half-backs for Notre Dame. Frank is the first member of the class to come to my attention, who is in line for congratulations as the papa of twins. (If there arc any others, speak up!) Anyway, he has three good reasons for not leaving home. 
"Lou Hcitgcr was in St. Louis recently to at­tend a National Teachers' Convention. No. , , he's not a teacher, but he sells laboratory, home economics and vocational furniture for schools. He is with the E. H. Sheldon & Company of Muskegon, Mich. He travels all of the southeast­ern states from Florida and Georgia over to the MissiEstpp!, and has been on the go too much to settle down and raise a family. Consequently he is still on the loose, and expects to be somewhere in South America about the time we will be cel­ebrating the anniversary at Notre Dame. 
"Dick Bloom wrote a long letter from New York to say that he will bo there. He got a head start on most of us and married an Irish girl by the name of "Viola Duggan in 1931. Their older son, Robert, will be eight years old in June, and the other boy has just past the four-year mark. Dick is with Oneida, Ltd., Oneida, N.-Y. His business is silverware. . . Community Plate, and Dick is receiving bouauets as a result of his recent promotion to the salesmanagership of one of the company's sales divisions. 
"The George 'Winklcrs have three girls and a boy. George is secretary of John 'Winkler's Son, Inc., of 1522 Far Rockaway Blvd., Far Rockaway, 
N. Y. lEs letterhead reads,* Every improvement known in Modern 'Warehousing, . . . Tircproof rooms for hous^old effects. . . . Fur and garment depository.' George writes, *I might suggest that you contact Bob Mnlhall, care of National Prop­erty Appraisal Senice, 17 East 42nd Street. We have talked seriously about going out together, and perhaps a little build-up coming from you might put it over.' I'd suggest, George, that you drive one of your moving vans, and pick up Bob Mulhall and the rest of the New York gang and bring them out to South Bend. Then we'd be sure of a record metropolitan nltcnunnce. 
"To those of you who have the idea ihat this reunion par ^ is going to be an expensive one . . . you are wrong. You should be able to gang up with one or two other fello^vs from your neck of the woods, and make the irip with very little expense. And after you get there, you're not going to find an 'Extravaganza' or a World's Fair, where you can spend money at every turn. This is going to be a plain and simple, old fashion get-together of Thirties. We're going to have a good time, but not an csxpensive time. We're going to swim and play squash and handball in the Rockne Memorial. We're going to play golf on the TJniversity golf course . , . and play soft­ball, tennis, ping-pong, pool and rummy .. . all for the fun of it. (Except the rummy) It will be the cheapest little vacation you've ever had . . , and the soberest. 
"Your correspondent is going to sign off with the most pathetic, and yet the most humorous letter received to date .. . all the way from the Pamsetgaaf Laboratory, Prcscott, Ariz., from Jack Flinn, who should have been a Hollywood writer instead of a bacteriologist. Jack writes: 
" '^Mth pains in my old pump it is my sad duty to tell you that I will be unable to attend the class reunion at Notre Dame in June. I have been planning on this great event for the past year, but something came up the first of the year that will make it impossible for me to get a^vay at that time.' 

" 'I have been put in charge of the Bacteriology Department recently and it looks as though Z 'will be tied down for quite a while. However, with the grace of God, a fast backfield and a good tail wind, I will be back for the 15th reunion in 1945.' 
" 'The reunion in June would certainly mean a lot to me. I haven't seen more than a score of du Lac boys of the 1930 vintage since that event­ful day in June of 1930 that I received a chemis­try bill in the round cardboard holder that was made especially for holding diplomas.' 
*' 'There is nothing I would rather do than go to another old-time dance at "Tokyo," or quaff a schooner of ale with John Forsec and Jack Can­non- However, that will have to wait.' 
" 'Best of luck for the reunion, and BEST WISHES TO ALL THE "THIRTrES." ' 
"Send in the rest of the Easter Cards, and I'll see you at the reunion May 31. 
"Cheerio!" 

^09 f John Bergan, 83S E. Colfuc Avenne, I 7 0 I South Bend, Indiana. 
A double play, by way of Marion AlcCandless. alumnae secretary at St. Mary's, and Mrs. James 
T. Connor, of New Orleans, a St. Mary's alumna, brings word of a grand New Orleans party fea­turing local '31 men. Said the forwarded ex­cerpt: "Jimmie (Dr. Connor] and I attended a partj- early in March given for Ckiach Lan r Mullins and his wife. They arc leaving tomorrow for Davenport. Iowa, where Moon is to be coach at St. Ambrose College. There were several N.D. grads there — Dick Pfefferle, '31, assistant coach at Loyola in New Orleans, Emil Telfel, '31, Aus­tin Bo3-le, '31, and John McCarthy, '31, all class­mates of Moon. 
"The Mullins* five children are w*onderful — Larry, Jr., Mike. Mary Ellen, Kathleen, and Anne Patrice." 
10^ 9 James T. Igoc. 328 South Jefferson. Chicago, Illinois. 
(It is one of the notable penalties of life that the fellow who docs something well gets some­thing else to do. Jim Igoe, printing tycoon in Chicago, did such a laudable job as president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago last year that the editors naturally turned to him when Herb Giorgio felt that he couldn't carry the banner for *32 any longer. Ergo, as Father Crumley would say, Jim is now the secretary of the class of 1S32. Give him a lift!—Eds.) 
From Jim Igoc: 
"There's nothing much you fellows can do about it. Herb Giorgio retired to his chicken farm and I fell heir to this secretarial job. Well, it serves me right f'lr paying my dues. 
"For identification purposes, I was the tall, skinny, round-shouldered, almost bald, slightly lazy guy that just skinned through with a 93 average — or maybe it was 78. Right now I'm tall, skinny, round-shouldered, totally bald and completely laz>-. 
"While my wife is trying to resurrect my old copy of the 1932 'Dome,' you fellows will have to excuse mc if I mention names other than those of the class of '32. After eight years the mind gets kind of rusty. 
"Well, here goes: 

"Tom Duffj* is a big financier on the South Side of Chicago. Ben Mikes, married and very sober, is one of the stellar accountants for Local Loan Ck>mpany. 
"Bud Groves, who used to be a swell guy, now works for the Internal Revenue Department in the Income Tax Division. This, of course, auto­matically makes him a heel. 
"Vlnce Cavanaugh, George Higgins, and Phil Dunlca\T have started their own law firm. They have their own private racing car for getting to the scene of the accident before the competi­tion. Incidentally, Vince just got himself en­gaged. 
*'Ray Fox is the brewmaster of the Fox DcLuxc Brewery. He's fatter, sassier, and has lots more kids than he did when he was in school. 
"CHiarlic Hitzclbcrgcr and Hank Donalty, in the tow of Fran Oclcrich, stopped at my house some­time very early in the morning after the Southern California football game. There was much bell ringing and pounding on the door,-but my wife, who was on watch at the bedroom window, re­ported that it was Francis with two friends (names unmentioned). This caused me to put a pillow over my head and go right on with my sleep, knowing full well that Francis and two friends were up to no good at that hour of the morning. This is just fo let Hank and (3harlie know that if I had only known who they were 
— I'd have gone right on sleeping anyway. 
"Neil Hurley recently was made vice-president and elected to the board of directors of Indepen­dent Pneumatic Tool Co. This is besides having two kids now and another one pretty soon, 
"Leo Hodcl still flits around a dance floor with his old time grace. He was at the South Shore Country Club Dance a couple weeks ago with a very 'sweet young thing.' Not bad for an old 1-uzzard like him. 
"Ed Mclchionc is with the SEC exposing all the financial intrigues of the large corporations. 
"I saw Joe Foley at the Northwestern football game. He has a swell wife named Peaches and the same love of life that he always had. 
"Jim Ward called from South Bend after the Southern California game and after talking to several dozen people who were in his room at the Oliver, I managed fo find out that he and his wife were going to spend a two-week vacation at Indianapolis. He promised to come up to Chi­cago to give me all the dope on the 'high pocket boys' from the East, but that's the last I heard of him. 
"Willie Fitzgerald was in Chicago sporting a 'Dewey' mustache about six months ago. He's advocating drinking beer from Lily Tulip Cups now. 
"Tom McKcvitt finally managed to get himself a wife despite his lack of hair. He is in Wash­ington somewhere. I suppose he can be reached care of F. D. R. 
"That's all for the present. I'll see you next month. 
"P. S. If you guys think I'm going to do all the work on this job, you're crazy. My address is 328 South Jefferson Street, Chicago, and I'd like to hear from plenty of you before the next publi­cation of the 'Alumnus.' In particular from Jim O'Connor, George Ryan, Ed Rhatigan, Adam Sferra, Frank Emcrick, John Norris, Frank O'Mallcy, Red McLeod, Ted Krcmer, and anybody else that can still write." 
Marchic Schwartz is the new backfield coach at Stanford, as all you sports page readers know by now. Thus he will again ser\*e under Clark Shaughnessy with w-hom he was associated at the Universitj' of Chicago just after he left Notre Dame. 
Wee Harrington sends word that he has his own law office at 545 Roosevelt Ave., Carteret, N. J. 
He adds: 
"Frank Bender, a member of the class of '32 who left in '30 to take up corn-cutting, stopped in to see me Sunday. ITp until three weeks ago he was located in Atlanta, Ga., but he is now in charge of a large shoe store in Philadelphia and is still single. 
"A few weeks ago I had Ray Geijier, *32, down to a Holy Name meeting as a guest speaker, and I understand he has become something of an institution around here, being asked to speak at all such affairs in the surrounding towns." 
1 00 9 Edmund Moriarty. 1027 Fcmdon Road, I TO O Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
Word comes that Jim Clark, of 223 Monttccllo Ave., Jersey City, is president of the New Jersey State Junior of Commerce. Congratulations I 
Jero" Greer, in sending in a change of address, says that be can now be reached at the Hotel Hanford, Mason City, Iowa, where he is assistant manager of International Harvester Co. Jerry had been up in Mankato, Minn., with the same company. 
News of his new daughter was Louie Chawgo's all-important item in his recent letter.but he did add that he works for Armour & Co.. in the Qii­cago stockyards district, but unfortunately sees very few N.D. men in that area. Louie commutes to nearby Aurora, III., every day and is planning a trip to the campus soon to try to keep up \n& the buildings of the newer Notre Dame. 
^Q^A ^^' Robert CrhilL Athletic Association, I TO t Notre Dame, Indiana. 
From Bob Cahill: 
"We'll start off this issue with a letter from John *Hap* Clauder, secretary of the Milwaukee 
N. D. Club, and a former Corby inmate: 'Long time since I have written to you. Nothing much is new*, with the exception of waiting for the stork until next month some time. In that same vein, McNichols became a father the same day (Feb. 16) our daughter was one year old. Due to that, they named their new daughter Mary Ann. same as ours. Notice you were looking for news for our class notes, so, after much concen­tration, obtained information on some of the boys. Dave Froclich is now in Milwaukee, as manager of the Wagner Baking Co. branch here. He pot married about seven months ago. George Shields, one of the 34.5 boys, was here most of the -week and the three of us had a good old "remember this, remember that" session. Rube Grundcman is in Milwaukee working for the General Motors Acceptance Corporation. John Brust. the busy architect, is taking a little time off in May to marry Marjorie Twohig of Fond du Lac, Wis. Ralph Ehr is working for Commercial Credit Co. here in Milwaukee. Bill Fromm is busy engineer­ing at the Dumorc Co. in Racine. He manages to get home for week-ends once in a while, but we don't see each other ver>- often. That's about all for this time. You are doing swell on the '34 class news. Keep it up. Give our best regards to Mary. If things work out right, we probably will see you early in the summer on our way East for a little vacation.' 
"And a little note from Charles 'Bud' Mc­Nichols, who later dropped in to see me enroutc to Cleveland: 'Spent a week-end with Ayres on my way home from the East (Bill Ayres, (Bing­hamton, N. Y.) but presume you have since heard from him.' 
" 'Only news around here is that on Friday, February 16, I became the proud father of a baby girl. She and her mother still doing splen­didly.' And then Bud goes on to note that the daughter was born on the anniversary of Clauder's yearling, as told above. Congratulations, Bud. The McNichols. on his visit, presented the same ruddy face, just a little chubbier, and a little more sparse on top.' 
"A most welcome one came on February 25, from good old Cy Rickard, he of the ever-present grin and red hair. The address is 948 Main Street, Ebenezer, N. Y. 'Dear Robin: There ap­pears somewhere deep in my memory the promise to write you. Well, lad, I can't say that my in­tentions were not good, for they were, but I am peeved with you and I shall tell you why. On September 30 I attcnde^I the N.D.-Purdue game with the ISIissus and we saw you and Mary in Church the next day. We waited out in front for 20 minutes but you must have left by the side door. [I did. Red. I guess it's that football-season­50-yard-line-request complex.] If you don't believe me ask Bob Kelly, — we met him there.' 
" 'The only event in my life worth recording since 1934 is that I was married October 15,. 1938, and contrary to all previous beliefs, I like it.' 
" 'Have bounded around on three different jobs since leaving school — did social case work for year and a half; spent another year and a half out on the road selling, and for the past two years have been drawing a salary from the Buf­falo Niagara Electric Co. — the power company in the village of Buffalo.' 
" 'Haven't heard from many of the boys lately. Saw Jim Leonard in Buffalo last fall when his St. Francis team met the Canisius College srld­ders. and he has been doing very good as coach down in the Pennsylvania to\vn. It seems football was just revived there after a lapse of several years and Jim really surprised the boys with the tricks his team employed.' 
" 'Norm, Wietig is coaching down in Trenton, N- J., and even if he is doing well, I won't say so because we haven't heard from him since last summer. Ed (Hanging Gardens) Weinheimer finally got himself married and came up to Buffalo last summer with the bride. He is selling for a fire brick company, out of Pittsburgh, I believe.' 
" 'I don't want to overdo my letter writing the first day, and this is about the first one in five years (what a correspondent!). So long, fellah, the best to you and Mrs. Cahill.' 
"Thanks. Cy, and come again. It was a real pleasure to hear from you, as it was to get a letter just the other day from Les Jandoli, the Orange orchid. Los neglected his street address, but here's the letter: 
"Thought I'd take out the old typewriter, still laden with Corby Hall dust, and proceed to share in the filibusterin'. 
" 'I engaged Bill Reilly the other day and he said he had been doing some w*ork for Bishop O'Hara. Bill is the father of one. Bob McDon­ough is now associated with the Federal govern­ment in census work. Clint Winter, who recently married, is now residing in the environs of Balti­more and is still with Worthington Pump and Machinerj-. Which reminds me. whatever hap­pened to the Golden Buffalo, Ralph Else, who once toed the mark for Worthington? [and for Nicholson, too, Les.] Bill Powell, after finishing law. is now a G-man. I also heard that Tom Dalton and Chick Marra, along with Bill, have entered the state of wedlock.' 
" 'I was shocked to hear of Ed Sherman's pass­ing. We sat at the same table in the dining hall and his table conversation was witty and keen. [I well recall, Les. I sat there, too.]' 
" 'All of which brings me to those two Mon­tana lads, Al Mcintosh and Leo Bcaulaurier. At called from New York last year, but yours truly was away. Al is or was a traveling salesman, dealing in copper. [Do you mean a G-man. Les?]* T received a letter from Stan Rensberger, who is a traveling auditor for the Singer Sewing Machine people. He covers southern Brazil and part of Uruguay. He staj-ed with me a few days last summer before sailing. He w-os returning for his fourth year in the jungles. He told me Chuck Litty is in foreign commerce in Buenos Aires, and Max Dcnoff works in the Hollywood film in­dustry.' 
" 'Last summer a body hurtled itself into Mountain Lake, in whose shallow waters I was standing . . . and upon emergence it proved to be the body of Dsn Brtclc A mighty swimmer is Dan. He just finished law, so I hear, up New York way.' 
" 'Hnghie Dcvore is coaching Rockne science at Providence College. Hugh is the daddy of two. Received a letter from Joe Hennessey's dad last year. His letter told me that Joe died acciden­tally in Milwaukee. Joe spent his freshman year at N. D., and then transferred to St. Edward's.' 
" 'Joe Young, Dan Young, John Fisdier and Frank McCann have entered the marital state. Joe is the daddy of one, and Frank McCann, with three tots, joins the Dnnnigan-Hayes combine. understand good old bricktop, Jim Forrest, is put­ting up big sales records for his outfit. That Forrest personality could sell lawn-mowers in the Gobi Desert. Jim Fagan and Ray Troy are among Newark's barristers, and John Dumpert is in ac­countancy.' 
'* 'l^me to de-filibuster. Bob. and I may see you in June when the third Jandoli (brother RusscU) snatches a scroll from the A.B. schooL* 
"Had a note from Lawrence 'Red' Mdfemey, in the law firm of 3IcNemey & McNemey, Elgin, lit., and doing right well. 
"Carl Zimmerer, of South Bend, who worked 'on the desk' and conducted a very readable col­umn in the South Bend 'Tribune,' is now with the 'Courier-Journal* in Louisville, along with Norm Johnson, '36. also late of the South Bend 'Tribune.' Bill Veeneman, Russ Leonard, et al. please note. Carl is a complete stranger there. Veeneman called me on the 'phone again not long fgo. Business this time, and a short social chat. He expects to get up for a visit soon. 
"Sorry there isn't more dope, dopes. Thanks for the letters, but we should have more. It is good to hear from the guys — I.es and Cy — and the rest. How about you, Widger, You travel and should see some of the class. And you. too, RockwelL And George Menard, how^ about you? You're the biggest little clam I ever did see. And Bob Butler — if you put on paper just a tenth of the sheep-dip you continually spout, we'd have lots of news. Loosen up, you Babbits. Let's hear from you." 
Dan Brennan, in inquiring about the football pictures for the use of local K. of C, says that he is associated with his father — and has been for two years — in the practice of law in the Meigs Building, Bridgeport, Conn. The firm is Brennan & Brennan. 
Sergeant Dick Gillen, of the South Bend police, is one of the main operators of the two-way radio just put into use by the local police department. 
1935 Franklyn C Hochreltcr, 530 Saint Peter SL, New Orleans, LonistanB. 

5.yEAR REUNION 

Class of 1935 May 31, June I and 2 

From Hoeh: • 
"Our news flashes for this time to press add up to a new low for the year. For circumstances beyond the control of either your scribe or the Alumni Office, the form letter did not get out the first week of March and as a result, the cards were not returned. We had hoped, however, tha t cur appeal in the last issue would meet with some awakening resimnse. One noble soul came through with a grand letter — that was all. 
''Charlie Fehr was the one who wrote, and we enjoyed your comments a lot, fella. Wish you could inject some of your enthusiasm into the other 520-odd '35ers. Charlie writes that he is 'still interested in the business (Furniture and Hardware) w^ith tny father, and manage one of the two stores. Besides the class reunion, I have a five-year wedding anniversary coming up and I am glad to say that my wedded years go hand in hand with my college years as the finest of all/ 
"We do not have full information for you on all your queries, Charlie, but we are glad to give you what we have. So, here goes I To our knowledge, BUI Mcascr is still located in "WilHamsville, and we understand that he is teaching. 
"Glad to hear that Duke Walters dropped in on you. It has been a long time since we heard an>-thing of the dapper fella from 'Windy City.' So he is still traveling for the frozen food outfit! 
"To our latest knowledge. Bill Bembrock is in Springfield, III. •Whether the good looking blond of our cheering section is among we wedded folk, we cannot say. That's an item for June tabu­lation. 
"We reported on Camillc Gravel our last time to press — he was just married and is supposed to be living in Alexandria, La., the hom town, "What he is doing we do not know, though we have appealed for the latest dope. 
"Phil Jacobs continues to manage the hanking business in native Alexandria, La., and is doing himself up right well. 
"Of Art Carey, Jack Shodron and Frank Mc-Guirc we have heard nothing in years. Our last report verifies your, Cliarlie. on Jack — he was last heard of with the Caterpillar Tractor Com­pany in Peoria. 
**One day early in March a letter came along from Mrs. Helen Dunn. That's right — Fran Dunn's frau. Helen came to our rescue with a little news on friend husband who is doing a bit of political phantasizing in Joliet, III. Fran Is running for states attorney of Will County in Illinois 'in the interest of clean government* — according to the campaign card. The primaries are to be run off on April 9, and along about 
.that time we will all be holding our breath and wishing you the best of luck, kid. Here is to a. whitewashing for all the other candidates! And to Mrs. Dunn — 'thanks a million for the note.* 
"We again received the annual invitation from the president of the Rockne Club of Kansas City, for the annual testimonial sen-ice for Bock at Cottonwood Falls, Kansas, on March 4. We ac­knowledge this thoughtful gesture with much appreciation to the club. 
"One night in February we strolled into the Midway Theatre near the Chicago campus and. lo and behold! we saw flashed on the screen 'Tropic Fury' — original story by Maurice Tom­bragcL We knew Maurie was with the New Universal out in Hollywood, but it was awfully good to see his name on the screen as evidence of his success. His picture was starring Dick Arlen. 
"We are ^\Titing from the Creole City where we have come for a two-week's breather between quarters at Chicago. Before our arrival we had correspondence from Jack Braj-mcr's mother to the effect that she and his his sister would be in New Orleans during Holy Week. Last night we had the pleasure of meeting Mrs. and Miss Braymer and spending a few hours with them in our apartment. We found that Jack has been married these past three years, and at present is managing the Ex-ansville, Ind., office for the Phillips 66 Petroleum Company. Jack was mar­ried in April. 1937, to Miss Mary Smith, of 
•\\1chita, Kansas. 
"Mrs. Braymer volunteered that Ken Smith, also of Tulsa, Oklahoma, was married to a Kansas girl, too. about three years ago, is the father of a bouncing baby daughter and is work­ing in Texas for some oil company. 
"Some kind soul sent us a note on an office memo pad the middle of February about Bill J. O'Connor, of Milwaukee. It seems that Bill is now an attorney with the "Wisconsin State Tax Commis»on, with his office in the State Capital Building, Madison, "Wis. We want our unknown benefactor to be aware of the fact we deeply ap­preciate his cooperation in keeping us in print. 
"Tom Proctor is in town with Tauck Tours for two weeks. Tom came down around the 18th of March to conduct tours in this part of the South, with New Orleans as his base. We had dinner with him one night in the Hawaiian Blue Room of the Roosevelt Hotel and met his staff from Tauck in New York City. 
"The Korzcncskis — Art and Virginia — are coming to the 'world's most interesting city' for Faster week-end, so word comes from the Jarecki side of the family. Art's sister-in-law phoned us from the Gulf Coast early this week and told us they would be coming down from Chi and would drive over. Before Mrs. Scribe and your corre­spondent left for the east last month we had an enjoyable dinner with Art and Virginia in their apartment in the Parkway Hotel in Chi. 
"This is about the works for April, gang. We had hoped to spread our stuff over many col­umns, but there was nothing to use for copy. We can only ask you to cooperate when you receive your form letter and return post card, and if you have not already returned it to us when you read this — get it out in the next mail. See you soon!" 

Count Lou Hniby out of the Five-Year Re­union! The old "Dome" maestro was to report in Los Angeles on April 1 to take over a new post as sales promotion manager for lamps of the soutli Pacific division of General Electric Lou, with his brother, Joe.. a freshman for next Sep­tember, came to the campus from Cleveland in mid-March. Joyful over a fine promotion, Lou was still speaking sharply to the fate that took him from the Middle West two months before the reunion. 
109X ^°^ Moran, 61 E. 95th St . Apt. 2, I T^ O New York^ City. 

From John Moran: 
Flash! Response from the Class of 1936 for a little personal news up 100 per cent (no fooling!) over last month. And what did it all, boys? You got it right the first time. Mortimer: it was our fearful threat to unload some more poetry on you this issue, if you modest, retiring men-of-the­world didn't get busy and help us put out this column. 
"A 100 per cent increase! Figures don't lie. Last month we started out to fill this yawning void with only two (so help us!) anemic letters. But this month, writing this will be almost too easy. Why, we have all of four letters! Yeah man, what a response! Watch our smoke! No poetry this month, gang, but if that mail doesn't show signs of a healthy and sudden growth. . . .1 We're just itching to .get some more of our poetic (or pathetic) efforts in print. Horrible thought . . . but we will unload them here, unless you-and-you grab a pen in self-defense and give us some news about yourself. 
"Cmon, break down. Everybody wants to hear about you. In fact, you will probably find the effort of writing a line or t^vo an enjoyable expe­rience. Charley Dohnalck, Norb Tinnes, Frank Kellncr, Larry Palkovic and Keil McCarthy did during the past month. Lot's have your letter for the next issue. 
"The first bit of mail to drop out of the sack this issue was a joint letter from Charley Dohna­lck and Norb Tinncs, who did a grand job of covering the South Bend sector. First of all, a little news about the writers: Charley, after being admitted to the Iowa bar in 1937, forsook his native state for the plains of Indiana. He recently celebrated his second anniversary with the law firm of Arnold, Chipman & Degnan. 404 City National Bank BIdg., South Bend. Norb is with the American Foundry Equipment Co. in Mtshawaka, and, although he admits that his free days are about at an end, he will still lead the bachelor's division in the Easter Parade. Congratulations, Norb. 

"The boys report that they haven't seen John Lcchncr's name in this column recently (what have you to say to that, John). Anyway, they report that John and Ted Prckowitz have opened a law office in theJMS Building, which, in addi­tion to being situated on South Bend's windiest corner, is also strategically placed near the city jail and the county court house. Hmmmmm! Also that 'George M^eil is chief e.\perimenter at the American Foundry Equipment Company, Misha­waka, and. from the path we see beaten between 111 North St. Louis and West Miner Street, we warn George to watch the nibble. ... " 
" 'Roland Smith, C.P.A.. is reported to he doing well with the accounting firm of Zick & Price, South Bend, and to whom it may concern: G.P.A. means Certified Public Accountant, and not "can't pass accounting.' 
" 'Jerry Davcy, who has chosen the former Grady Hoffman, until death do them part, is reported to be an expert on domestic 'duties and particularly on laundering three cornered muslin strips, which activity he is perfecting "Merlie" for his sales demonstrations of household appli­ances. We can remember when Jerry bet us that he could sell refrigerators to Eskimos. Well . . . here's hoping and we'll string along because we have faith in him.' 
" 'We haven't heard from Bob "Sully" Sullivan, the old roomie of the Fort Atkinson flash. Art Hubcr. We're wondering if heis back in Tucson, Ariz., and whether he is still keeping his thought-a-day diary, which, when published, will be second to none. How about an address or a short letter?" [Sorry, we ha^'n't any recent address, boys. How about that. Sully?]' 
" 'Another among the missing is the lad who was known as the "Two Best Looking Guys, and Why Was He Both of Them?" By that we have reference to none other than Bud Marcy, the old Golden Glover from Chicago's North Side. A few words would satisfy our over\vhelming curiosity. We're also wondering whether Ed "Marmain" Epier, along with George Bender, are still operat­ing the steel mills in Gary.* [Come on all you fugitives: break out of your shells and come through with a little sorely needed news about yourselves.]' 
" 'John Daley, who is the proud father of a baby son, John Patrick, Jr., is practicing law in LaPVsrte. and has recently announced his candi­dacy for state representative from LaPorte Coun­ty. John reports that Pat, Jr., is getting bigger every day. In time we hope to see "Daley & Daley" on the law firm's door. [Aside to Candi­date Daley: Good luck, and if you want our ab­sentee ballot, you'll have to drop us a line first.]' 
" "Hearing from Don Draper, the boy from Gridley, Kansas, was like quaffing a foaming brew after a hot afternoon of golf. Don used to play alto in the Notre Dame Band, and it was his staunch contention that his hom was the only horn in the band with a "soul," because no matter what valves Don would push down, the proper melody would flow forth.' 
"The boys wind up their grand letter with a request for letters from William J, Fish and Dick Pfeiffer. So drag out the writing implements and get going, fellows. And to Charley and Norb go our thanks for a good account of the doings back in South Bend. Don't be so long in writing again, boys. 
"Xeil McCarthy, prompted by our sorrowful little note in the last issue, sent along a two-page 
. letter for a 'fill in.* Thanks for the letter, Neil, but the scarcity of class news makes your letter too valuable for a filler. Neil reports that he is associated -with the metallurgical division of the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corp., in Garj*, Ind., a job he has held since graduation. Answering the above query of the Dohnalck-Tinncs combine re­garding Ed Eplcr and George Binder, Mac writes that they are both with his outfit, and doing very nicely also. Both, incidentally, are now family men. 
"George has just been promoted and will now carry the awesome title of pyrometric service and control foreman. Ed and Mac are doing the same type work, namely investigating customers* complaints and the like. 
"While back in the old home town last fall, namely Saranac, N. Y., Neil met Ed 'Moose* Kennedy, who is working with his Dad in the dry goods business. On tlic trip back to Gary, he stopped off in Erie, Pa., and spent the evening w^ith Frank Joyce. Frank, who is now located somewhere in Delaware with the duPont Com­pany, was nt that time preparing to waltz up the aisle. 
"Bob Bernard, another one o£ the slide-rule gang, stopped in over-night for a visit during the fall while on his honeymoon. Seems that all the engineers are forsaking the state of single blessed­ness, with a blessed notice being sent to your pore ole bachelor class secretary. Tsk! Tsk! Come, come, gentlemen. \Vhy keep these happy occasions a deep, dark secret? 
"Neil winds up a perfectly grand letter by mentioning 'casually* that he, too. will say *I do* sometime in June. Congratulations, Mac, and the best of luck to you and the future Sirs. Mc­Carthy. In closing, Neil would like some news in these columns 'from some of the other mad mechanics such as Stinc, Swords, Loritsch, and Herrly, wherever they may be.' How about it, boys; forgot your formulas and slide-rules for a short line or two, maybo three. And thanks to you, Neil. "Write soon again. For the class of 11130 news, Mac passes along the information that Dick Lcnahan, Mike Shanahan, and Stcrc Laszio are also with the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Co. in Gary. Mac himself may be reached at 505 Fill­more St. 
"Frank KcIIncr. after being unreported for these many months, came through with a newsy letter, prompted by the fact that his address was re­quested in this column last month. We quote: 'As I recall it, the last time I s.iw you was in New York City at some Italian restaurant. At that time I was working with the Commercial Credit Corp. I am now living in Buffalo, working with McKesson-Robbins, Inc., and have succeeded in adding two lovely daughters to my immediate family. [Congratulations!} Time marches on. My oldest is a charming brunette of some 21 months, while the other is giving certain indications of being a lovely little blonde, although it is hard to decide definitely at nine months. While I have not done much for the school enrollment of 19G0, I may be able to supply those lads with some suit­able companions by that time.' 
" *But to get back to the original theme. I left New York and O.C.C. on Oct. 31, 1937, and started to work in Buffalo on Nov. 1. 1937. It so hap­pened that the 31st was a Sunday, so I worked Saturday afternoon in New York and Monday morning in Buffalo. I started here with the gen­eral idea of learning the wholesale drug business . . . which meant starting from the bottom. So I spent a little over two years doing whatever could be found to occupy my time — mostly in the warehouse, but occasionally filling in for vaca­tions in the office, such as bookkeeping, cashier and liquor sales analyst.* 
" 'Starting Jan. 1 of this year I began as a 

salesman, covering some 60 accounts in Buffalo and TiVllliamsville. I haven't been causing the president any sleepless nights yet, but it begins to look as though I am finally moving in the right direction.' 
"Well, Frank, we certainly are glad to learn that you are doing so well. If we could get a few more letters like yours ever>' month, this column would be doing pretty well, too. Frank passes along the information that John LaDuca is work­ing in the Buffalo Savings Bank, and that Frank Joyce (previously reported as being in Delaware) is in Buffalo with the engineering department of the duPont Company. This seems to be the spot for the elusive Mr. Joyce to write in and let us pin him down definitely to one section of this con­tinent. 
"Frank also notes in passing that at school he h::d two roommates, Charles Fitzsimmons and Jim Siddall, neither of whom ever evinced any in­terest in aeronautics. Yet Charlie went and joined the Army Air Corps and Jim enlisted in the Naval Air Corp. Both boys subsequently left the air service, and, while we don't have their present addresses handy, Frank, you can prohably get tbcm by referring to back issues of this column. As for Bill Bcldcn and Joe O'Neill, we only know that they are roaming around some­where in these United States. We did see Joe for a minute or so when coming out of Madison Square Garden after the N.Y.U.-N.D. basketball game in February, and he told us that he was-connected with an insurance outfit here in New York. Not having seen him since at any of the alumni meetings, or other affairs around town, we can't do much except ask him to drop this col­umn a line with more information about himself. 
"As for some of the other addresses you re­quested we can be of more assistance. Bob Cav­anaugh is still in Washington with the FDIC, as is Ray Decly. Bob can be reached at 4753 Re­ser\'oir Rd. N.W*., while Ray will probably get a letter addressed to him in care of Bob. And while we are on the subject. Bob and Ray, how about a bit of news from the Washington sector? Joe Barber and Joe Bandurich haven't -written this column lately; we are unable to supply their present whereabouts. So get busy, you two, and send in a bit of news about yourselves. 
"Tlianks for your swell letter, Frank. If we do get near Buffalo, we'll be sure to drop by for a social visit. However, we'll take a rain-check on your generous offer 'to let you stay in and take care of the children for us.' Frank and the fam­ily may be reached at 2S7 Lafayette Ave.. Buffalo. 
"Our final letter of the month came from Larr>- Palkovic, who has done nobly in responding to our frequent appeals for letters. Larry re­ports in from Johnstown, N. Y., where he says they have had an unusually severe winter, with heavy snowdrifts almost stopping local transpor­tation. However, Larrj- took a local basketball team in his car to Bridgeport, Conn., early in March for the Eastern District tournament of the Catholic schools. His team lost the tournament, but Larry's biggest thrills (and scares) came on the way home, when a heavy rain and zero weather combined to make the roads too icy for safe driving. Larry made it without an accident, but he wrote '. ' * how we got home without a mishap is still a mystery, and that is one trip I'll never forget.' 
"In Bridgeport Larry saw Alan Donovan, who recently dropped a note to this department. Larry also writes that Bill Saffa is still a state trooper in Dewey, Okla., and that George Wcntworth, who is coaching at a high school (name not given) in New England, had an undefeated football season, and was well on his way to an equally good bas­ketball season. Phil Walker is reported teach­ing in Illinois at an unnamed college. How about a few letters w-ith some more definite informa­-tion, you Fhy. Ed. men and others in the coach­ing profession? 
"Thanks again for your letter, Larry, and we'll be answering it very shortly. Larry can be reached at 207 N. Market St., Johnstown, N. Y. 
"And that about ^vinds up the business of the column for this month, save that we might add that Howie Cnsack, the old class prexy, now helping to sell cigarettes for P. Ixirrilard Co., Jim Kirby, Joe Schmidt, Bud Goldman, Jim ReiUy, and one or t\Yo other New Yorkers were glimpsed at the various alumni functions in the last few weeks here in the metropolis. 
"We wish you all a very pleasant Easter, though we doubt if this will reach you by then- Any­way, you can return our good wishes with a sub­stantial dividend by dropping us a letter .. . or even a postcard with a bit of news about your­selves. Don't leave it to the other fellows: We're interested in what yon are doing. So let's get off to a good start this spring and save this column from printing any more poetry." 
Norm Johnson and Carl Zimmerer. '34, both late of the South Bend "Tribune," are now put­ting Dr. Cooney's exiiortations into effect on the Doctor's "home grounds," Louisville. Both are on the "Courier-Journal," Norm reporting and Carl working on the desk. They can he Teached occasionally at their apartment, 1118 South Second St., where, according to their story, they preside with beautiful effectiveness over a stove and a Frigidaire. Doubters — and they should be legion — can, and are invited to, investigate for themselves. 
The boys have deep, inward desire to hear from the following: Joe Yonng, *34, and Tom" Fennelly, Johnny Aloran and Bud Goldman, all of 
•36. There's your chance, lads! Remember, the Derby's coming up and Johnson and Zimmerer have an apartment! (At last reports, unfortunate­ly, they hadn't seen a mint julep or a colonel.) 
^OS^ V Paol Foley, 18036 Sdioenhocr Road. 
IT^ / Detroit. BDchismn. 
From Paul Foley: 
"Easter Sunday — as cold and blustery a day as 1940 has yet offered — four days past the dead­line, we push aside the remnants of a. ham. think gayly of the children gamboling on the "White House lawn and sail into this chore. 
"We are not going to start this column with a wail about the mail; though we conld wax po­etic and get you sympathetic by reminding one and all that it is no help at all to never whip a line our way. 
"Like a voice from the srrim, gray past comes word from Bob McClain, still in Chicago, but moved from older haunts and now sending forth brilUant rays of sunshine from 1500 North Dear­bom Parkway. To quote McClain: 
" 'I am working for the Haire Publishing Co. in their Chicago office, still eanung a few dollars on the editorial side of the business. Frank Reilly and Jnstin McCann are in the New York office of the same firm. Reilly is doing editorial 
. work and Justin is holding down, or forth, in the advertising end of the business.' 
"From another source we have more words of this crew — of which you will see. ­
'*3IcCkun reports seeing FfaU Bondi in Chicago's Merchandise Mart recently. McClain displays ty]>­ical ex-Hearst technique in telling us that Bondi is no longer with Burroughs — as if we're inter­ested in where BONDI NO LONGER is — we would like to know where he IS. Let's hear from Mr. Bondi personally on this rather important point. 
*^ill Stcinkemper has given np the hawldnsr of oxygen tents and is now working for the Palmer House in the sales promotion department. Put the Palmer House on your list — it should be good for a tap now under the S.P. department. We have no further word on Steinkemper's career as a seU-accompanicd singer of sweet songs — perhaps that phase was left to die in Alumni Hall. 
"ITie 'white tie and tails' man, fllarly Bums, is reported to have checked out of N.W. Law school and enrolled at Kent. We presume the floor is better at Kent. 
"In the last screed we bowed toward Youngs­town and its Fourth Estate by noting the engage­ment of Redo* Riley — we bow again toward the Fifth Estate by noting that he is engaged to the 'VindicatorV Society Editor — which is something to vindicate. 
"Except for drawing a color line on those not of '37, we could tell you that McCIain is living with such stalwarts as Dcmctrio, Kine LaLondc, Kick Lambcrto and John Beer — who staggered out from '35 to '35. 
"To get back to this Haire Publishing Co. — Frank Reilly pounds out his epistle with com­mendable regularity and tells us he is now con­nected with that firm. Specifically, he is a market reporter for 'Notion & Novelty News* (Such things as the Dionnes, no doubt) and 'LuggaEc and Leather Goods.' Reilly holds that Justin Mc­Cann's plugging helped Reilly connect — so see McCann. Justin himself breaks into the news by \-irtue of the fact that his name, he says, has never appeared in this department. He is currently selling advertising for the Haire publications and lives in Garden Gty, Long Island, Justin is mar­ried, has been since last September when John Marbach, as best man, helped him get into double harness. 
"James William McHugh, of Fitchburg, Mass., is a rare and lucky creature. He is one of those mortals who has the one job in the world for whicli he was bom — even in Fitchburg. He is occupying a rather swanky office in Radio City, puffs cigars or something and does publicity for fairs, circuses, cami\-als, museums of natural science and oddities, and in spare time is associ­ate editor of 'Fair "nmes.* Jim is actually work­ing for George Hamid, owner of the Million Dollar Steel Pier at Atlantic City. 'Million Dollar* Mc­Hugh, he's known as. Can't you just see Jim pounding out the glories of 'Forty — count 'em — forty beautiful dancing girls — direct from the Street of Paris.' Doctor Cooney denies that he knew the man! 
"Reilly reports this: 'John Desmond, of Fall River, Rochester, etc., bumped into me on the street in New York the other morning. John sells pocket sized editions of famous books to chain stores. We've been working around the corner from each other, but it took three months for us to meet.' Consult your local chain store for fur­ther data in XM>cket size. 
"Joe O'Neill is reported out of the Pennsyl­vania morass into the Wall Street sector where he is cronnected with one of the larger insurance firms. 
"In the credit department of a large Brooklyn department store is John (BofC) Cavanaugh. Is it prophetic that Brooklyn department stores hire track men for credit over-seers? John is reported scouting the idea of a sojourn in China ^t h one of the large oil companies. The Chinese will soon learn the beauties of "The Boff and Shuffle Jive' as played by Hootin' Harrj' and his Hep Hounds. 
"Jim Nolan is also involved in a nebulous 'Brooklyn department store,' according to Reilly, where he has something to do with the bat depart­ment — he who never wore a hat. We are grow­ing suspicious of this 'Brooklyn department store* business — it sounds like those 'sources close to the President,* so frequently quoted in the dallies. 
These guys are probably all working for Green­baum, Finkelstein and Lcptdus. 
"In any event Nolan is reported chubby and decidedly bald — which goes to show you about hat departments. 
" 'Downstairs in the same store,' says Reilly, haflling us more and more in Brooklyn toggeries, 'minding three of the fabric counters is illustrious Chris Matthews, late of center field.' 
"As an added bit of addenda on Rocky Riley, 

•we might report he is now make-up editor of the *\'indicator* and is also doing a bit of sport re­porting for one oC the Cleveland dailies. 
"Jack Bartlcy, who was aiming at ichthyology the last we heard, is now hoping for a promotion with King Feature Syndicate — in fact he prob­ably has it by now, 
"As for ourselves, we ha\-e made a pilgrimage to Notre Dame and the basement of the Library. In fact we were on hand Tuesday, March 12, for the annual P^^ss Club banquet. 
"We were glad to report that all is well. It rained, sleeted and froze for 24 hours straight while we were on hand; the boys w-ere griping about the food: innocent 'Scholastic' men were hawking tickets for the Bengal Bouts, and we heard a fellow sobbing about a 37 cent charge on his laundry. 
"One disturbing influence is at work — the Dining Hall crew actually served a meal with two meat courses. It fooled us and Dean Konop for a few minutes but we weathered it all right. 
"Not that it has any particular place in the 1037 notes, but we're short aziy\vay and might as well mention that Universal Notre Dame Night originates in Detroit tliis year and all the local lads opine it will be quite something. Bit of cheering Americana: The broadcast will come from Masonic Temple! 
"Under the new rules, we are answering all letters — we hope to keep busy the next 30 days." 
Along with is generous contribution to the Association, Phil Hoterman sent word that he can now be reached at 7505 Seward Park Ave., Se­attle, Wash. Phil doesn't see many of the N.D, boys in the far places, but he did report on a conference with Johnny English. '35, ". . . up at Mt. Kanier doing his stuff on skis. We had a short chat in 97 inches of snow and he informed me that the classy shoe store of Drew and English in Seattle is holding its own." 
10^f i Harold A. Williams, 216 Eait Lake I 7w O Avenue, Baltimore, Matyland. 

From Hal Williams: 
"This month's column is highlighted by a letter from Bombay, India, the announcement of two seta of twins, and the gathering of the clan in dear old Baltimore. 
"First, the letter from Jack Zerbst, who writes from Bombay, India. The letter is so interesUne that I'm going to reproduce most of it. Here it is: 'Nostalgic thoughts have been clamoring in my cerebral chambers for several days, so now that Charlie, my Bearer, has removed the remnants of a supper of Indian cOrry and rice, the table is clear for composition. Indian dishes vivify recollections of those wholesome meals at Notre Dame where Jack Crowley, the epicurean, used to raise his voice in protest. Remember how that 240 pounds croaked that starvation was just in the offing? Another member of our class is re­peatedly recalled to mind by the ponderous sway of my Bearer's shoulders and contagious grin. His efforts to convince me that I should become an adherent of Gandhi's Congress Movement fur­ther bespeaks a characteristic resemblance to this classmate. My Bearer will respond to "Charlie," but the Callahan surname is too foreign for his 

Oriental ears.' 
" 'Then there is the Pars! salesman w-ith whom I've been touring for the past week. When he gesticulates and spouts a protest to a Hindu bazaar dealer, I might just as well be standing beside "Riggic" DiBricnza in the N.D. Dining Hall. About a month' ago in the Kyber Pass aren. I encountered an Irish engineer who is startingly ^milar to BiU Mehrin. He had the eyes o£ a happy-go-lucky fellow, shoulders that shook when he laughed, and a repertoire of stories that was inexhaustible. We had a most enjoyable week-end with some aviators of the Royal Air Force who keep the tribesmen in India's Northwest Frontier under control. The session smacked of Howell's in the Bend.* 
" 'Multifarious resemblances to N.D. men had hcen seen in India, so it was almost unbelievable to see the genuine article. I was strolling in Firpo*s. one of Calcutta's night spots, about four months ago when I ohseo'ed a familiar face disguised by a mustache. Recognition was difficult, but there sat Bill Armcl, 15,000 miles from the home base. What an occasion! Proper salutations were ex­changed and for the next few daj's before his boat sailed we had some fun. At times we 'were able to induce Bill White, '39, who was the other member of the cruise, to join us, but be was busy with other matters. Their ship sailed for Singa­pore with a gun mounted on the stern. A com­munication fromc Bill signified a safe arrival in the good old U.SJV. Why don't some more of you blokes drop in for a week-end?' 
" 'Hal, do the "Bengal Missions" strike a familiar chord in your, memory? Let me be one to confirm the constructivcness of their work. Any religious misunderstanding and prejudice that is eliminated in India is of incalculable value, for these detriments to general progress are widespread and intense in this country. I met Fathers, Grancr, Mangan, Kane. McGar^'ey, and Boarman (all N.D. men) in Dacca, Bengal, We met during my first trip into the interior. They were kind enough to impart much helpful advice during a big dinner followed by a long session over some beer. They told me that I was the first Notre Dame alumnus to visit them. As such, I say that they deser^'e praise and support.' 
" 'Although the religious education preferred at the Alma Mntcr is commendable, most of its graduates seem to be illiterate. Not even the en­thusiastic promises of Gene Dolan. Ted Fraser, Bill Costcllo, and C Callahan, made along with the "bon voyage," have resulted in news. I can still remember those guys standing on the dock, each with a problem. Ted had to make a payment on two printing machines the next day; Gene w-as going to ask for a raise; and Charlie was in a precarious position because the World's Fair ne\ys­paper for which he wrote had to reach a record circulation, an unprecedented accomplishment, by 
, the end of the week, or it would terminate and, with that termination, would be Charlie's salary. That's the state in which things were left in America. Would you please relieve my anx­iety? . . / 
"Boys, relieve his anxiety. The address is United Batterj- Distributors, Limited, Lakshmi Building, Bombay, India. 
"I don't know whether Jack will see this 'Alumnus' but. even if he doesn't. I'd like to thank him in print for the swell letter. Incidentally, his letter should serve as an example to you fellows. If Zerbst can find news in India so can you in Kalamazoo, Pun:csuta\vney, Good Thunder, Brooklyn, or Cup Cake. If the shoe fits . . . put is on. . . . 
"And now back to more familiar pastures with .Ed Brennan with this outstanding letter. Says Ed, 'Written with honorable intentions and a diligent attempt to include everyone, herewith !s your annual report on Chicago's north side sur-, vivors of the disaster of. '38. Many of the boys have changed jobs during: tha past year — all for the better; one has changed a girl's name from Miss to Mrs-, and others have evinced similar intentions.' 
" 'John Bourkc has already worked himself up t i the eighteenth floor of the Commonwealth Edi­son Co. -— where the rest of the executives hold forth. We've seen John courtin* the same gal a number of times. Frank O'LaughUn left the buildins material department of Consumers Co., and stumbled into a real paying position with Consolidated Coal Co., selling wholesale coal lots —• like falling into a sewer and coming out with a mermaid. Mauric Kennedy, on the other hand, continues to draw Iiis checks from the aforesaid Consumers Co. He's been promoted to a sales position in their Elgin. III., territory. This coal business can't be as dirty as it looks. Dick Carrigan arises with the chickens each dawn and makes a sleeper jump from the north side to SOOO south where he continues to toil for the Camegie-lUinois Sleel Co. From what we hear. Dick is really moving along in their technical department. Jack Hughes, *3S-'39, drives his new Chcvie down to the Tribune Tower every morning ^vhe^e he and Colonel McCormick direct the des­tinies of the AVorld's Greatest newspaper. Jack is in the circulation department of the "Trib" and pays his monthly alumni dues at Kosary College — gel it.' 
" 'On Tlianksgiving Day John Francis walked us the middle aisle of St. Giles Church, Oak Park, with Miss Grace Knowles, and out came Mrs. John Francis. John is connected with a cement and asphalt company and has good possi­bilities in their promotion department. John Thomas keeps going up with the Chicago and Southern Airlines, under whose wings he's been for almost a year.' 
*' 'Since returning from his trip around the World, over a year ago. Bill Armcl has been ped­dling paint for the Nubian Paint and Varnish Co. Lcn Skoglund is still adding up figures for Has­kins and Sells. Len docs all right, too, for his work has taken him as far west as Boise, Idaho. Intent on a career in Art. Bud Cullcn is attend­ing classes at Chicago's Art Institute. We hear that he's converting his spare time into profit by painting portraits. Greg Kelly compIete<l his time "with the Local Loan Co.. and shortly after the first of the year joined the merchandising department-of the Chicago "Djuly News." Greg is anxious for an opportunity in advertising. Kews on Babe KcIIy> however, is not so definite. We do know that Babe Is married, lives in Aurora. 111., and is in some phase of the bakery business. John Buckley has built his family — in­cluding recent twins — a heautiful new home in River Grove, III. One of the few insurance men in our class, John is a representative of the Aetna Insurance Co. of Hartford, Conn.* 
**As for myself, I left the" "New World," Chi­cago's Catholic paper, in September. After beat­ing down the pavements for a while, I did a short stretch in the promotion department of Phillip Morris, and I'm now with a publisher's represen­tative here in Chicago selling advertising space for Spur magaune and the Plumbing and Heat­ing Journal, a trade paper.' 
'*A truly fine piece of reporting on the Chicago scene. Take a bow. Ed. Many, many thanks. 
"AVhat about those other twins? I'm coming to that with this letter from John Jehle, 636 East 16th Street, Alton, 111. John: 'I believe this is one for the books. On February 20, at three in the afternoon, I was standing on U-S. Highway 66 at Hamel, III., 20 miles east of home, enroute to sec Johnny Poore in Springfield, via the flag method. A Ford coupe stopped. The drvier was Jerry (Jim) Magee, enroute from California to Maryland, going to spend the night with Rusty Johnson in TaylorviUe. Imagine my surprise?' 
"'Johnny Poorc is okay. Neither of our folks* homes here in Alton were damaged by the recent tornado. However, I was laid off my job with Shell Oil the first of February, and am looking for another in Mechanical Engineering. I have another piece of news. George B. Griggs is at­tending St. Louis University Law School, where he will finish in June. He is married and has twin sons about eight months old. His address is 2624 Bond street. East St. Louis, 111. . . . I'll write again when I get married. Meantime, if you hear of any engineering jobs, I'm available on short notice.' 
"Congratulations, on all twins, and thank you, John. • 
"And now more news about Magce. Jim stopped at Rusty's home, went on to visit his folks in Buffalo, and finally ended up at the Glenn L. Martin plant just outside of Baltimore. He has an apartment on Pennsylvania avenue, Towson, ^- just a few doors from the verb foundry where I work. We have gotten together several times to bull Over old times. Jim passed along several bits of information, but since I didn't jot them down, I'm afraid to rely on my memory. Last week Jim went to Washington, D.C, to visit George Simpson who is studying law at George­town, and next week he plans to take a quick trip home to Buffalo. 
"Baltimore is getting quite a group of '38 boys. Ed KavanaugK and Pete Pcdcrscn are also work­ing for Glenn L, Martin, having arrived in town about ten days ago. The other night Chuck Brosius called me on the telephone. He is now located in Baltimore w-ith Hoskins and Sells and is doing accounting. I*ast week Chuck received his C.P.A. certificate. By the way. Chuck is married. We are planning a get-together for old times sake next week. I'll have my pencil along to jot down all the news and gossip for the next issue. 
"About two weeks ago Eddie Mattingly from Cumberland called on me. He is still selling for his father in the produce building. At the same time Tiger McGrath was spending a week-end here. 
"The day after I mailed my copy for the March 'Alumnus' this letter arrived from Lieu­tenant James H. Lahcy, who is stationed in San Diego, Calif.: 'Thought I would drop a hasty line to inform you of my whereabouts. Since last year I have been on duty with the U.S. Marine Corps as a lieutenant. This was to be temporary, but now I've been recommended for a permanent commission in Air Corps and transfer to Pen­sncola, Fla., for additional duty. I though I saw Magcc go into Consolidated Aircraft one morning, hut I was busy getting a ticket from an over­zealous policeman and I couldn't get to him. Jack Moulder is selling cars for his father in 
S.B. Jack Scott is a lieutenant in the U.S. Ma­rine Corp Reserve recruiting and doing a master­ful job in South Bend and vicinity. Otto Schercr is employed in the paymaster's office in Stude­bakers, same place. . . .* 
."Thanks. Jim. Let's hear from you again. 
"The final letter comes from Rusty Johnson. Though he goes back to some of the football games for news, it's all good stu^ so here it is, 'I managed to take in the Southern Methodist and Southern California games and saw some of the boys. Jim Magcc dropped in on me the other day. .. . I received a letter from Ed Haggar recently. At the present time he is in the East attempting to put his father's business on a pay­ing basis. I see Joe Henncbry every now* and then. Frank Winningcr is working in Mattoon. 
111. I See him quite regularly. He is a salesman for General Foods. Haven't seen him for a week so he is probably president of the concern by now. I haven't seen Ed Uniache since leaving the Bend, although I do correspond with him. Well. Hal, that's all the news for the present. Best regards to all the fellows. . . .' 
"Thanks. Rusty, and what's this about you being married? 
"And that's about all except for the usual re­quest for more letters and mote uews. Durins the past few months I've heard from a number of fellows who have remained silent for a long time, so now I'd like to have a few words from those who have not been heard from since June, 1038. 
"I'd appreciate letters from Bud Cullen, Bill Robinson, Tom Hcaly, Charlie Callalian (anyone have his address?). Bob Reilly, Paul Hashes, and all the rest." 
Welcome indeed is the news from Ithaca, N. Y., that Bob Fembach stands first in the second year Law class at Cornell. Congratulations, Robert, on a mighty accomplishment. 
IQ9 0 Vincent DeCoarMy, 251 N. IStfa St^ I * J T Kaniu City, Kansas. 
From Vince DcCoursey: 
"News of the boys this month has not been any too plenty, but still not too scarce either. About an average month, we guess. Want to apologize to Norm Jandoli, Bob Lindsey, and Frank Patks tor not having their material in last month's issue. It happened that all their letters came either the day of mailing the column or the day after, and it seemed well that they be preserved until came time for next month's outpourings. 
"After a few words about the home-folks we proceed to explore their offerings. First be it of lecord that the Kansas City-Notre Dame club met in conclave, amid much talk and a little froth-blowing^ Thomas 3IcGee Reardon orated to some extent on some of the club's problems before having to rush home to the wife. A very glorious evening. 
"But enough of this chatter, itrip aside the hypocrisy and tautology, bring on Norm Jandoli! At time of writing Norm was waiting for a job with an aviation company (details lacking) and we look for something definite on this before the month rolls itself out. The 'health-test' terror had been employed with an insurance firm in New York City before the new chance came. About meeting the boys in Jersey. Jan says: 'I see George Plain at the N.D. meetings and learn that he is comfortably employed with a finance company of reputable standing. John J. Kohn (why don't you speak for yourself, John?) is going great guns in the broker's field. Meet Tom Hogan and all those accountants on Wall Street now and then. Vince Kieman works with a newspaper organization. Chuck Thcisen (that Phy. Ed. man) is living in Jersey, is married, and teaches history and physical education in South Jersey.* 
"Interested fact number one to be gleaned from Jan's epistle is the nice bandying about of words before w-hich we common people bend the calloused knee: 'going great guns in the broker's field' and *. . . on Wall Street now and then.* If John Kohn is in the same kind of brokerage business I am, then he's bended for a berth be­side Richard Whitney — if he continues to make money. I answered John's letter way back in November; it's about time his reply broke the postman's arches. 
"When the news of the la\vyer3 had been just dribbling in we felt that we were lucky — after this month a complete life history of every grad­uate of the Law School since Col. Hoynes took to a walking stick wouldn't surprise us any. Two 
(2) letters from lawyers in one month! Number one from Bob Lindsey. who is worldng away in his father's law- office up in Grand Rapids, study­ing for the state bar exams in April (in which we wish good luck). For those of us who don't place Bob, he graduated in summer school last August and before that took his pre-law at Val­paraiso. Says Bob: 
" *Nick Mcacher is out in Salt Lake City work­ing in one of the banks. He tells me that he has bought a five-and ten cent store out in one of those sheep towns called Vernal, Utah. "Well, anyway, he tells me he is making a mtlUon off of the little five-and-dime store and some day it will be a Woolworth. He has hired a business man to run it for him, and Nick sits with his feet on his desk in the bank raking in the shekels.* 
" 'I understand Hairey Foster, one of the for­mer football stars, is an F.B X man. Har\*ey will get places in that field, I know. I always admired him —- worked his way through law school and was one of the upper third of his class at tha same time he was playing football. He*ll get pliices, you watch.' 
" *Ed Boj-Ie has the same kind of a job which Foster has, only he's in Boston. Received a letter from "Smoky" Joe Canalc and he passed his bar exam and is working in a law office in Memphis. Tells me he likes the work very well and will soon be off the "Starving Line" (he hopes). John Cain is taking a review course at the University of Detroit law^ school and e.\pects to take the bar exam with me this April.' 
" 'Carl Doozsn is practicing law in Saginaw, Mich., and so is our former law club prexy, Stewart Roche, who is practicing law tip in Hart, Mich. Understand Andy Trj- is studying to take the bar exams in Illinois this spring.' 
"Now that was what the column calls a" nice letter since we didn't know Bob ourself; taking all the time necessarj* to sit down and write, ju«t to help out. Wish that others would be that generous. 
"And then that perennial contributor to this column, my friend and your friend — Frank Parks, — may he never run down. In spite of ourself we kept a promise and wrote to the gen­tleman last month and practically in the next mail came back his answer, which needless to sa>­we have intended to reply to almost every day since. Says Parks: 
" 'Succeeded in finishing the semester, and came out with an 80 average — which according to re­cent averages will place me in the top 2 per cent. Those boys surely can knock *em around when cornea finals time.' And as a personal side­light to Parks, we do assume responsibilities for the Bcinor incident of two months past. The future mouthpiece has made arrangements to do his summer work in Senator Connor's law office at home. 
"From the second of the lawj-ers' to write this month came one of the most interesting letters possible. Louis L. DaPra, sage of Sorin sub, Bengal Promoter (ixtraordinary, 94.9 average-holder, 'Scholastic' managing editor, and assorted tid-bits has honored us with his '. , . annual post­poned letter. Every j-ear I delight to choose one individual whom I desire to compliment by deign­ing to write to such base felIo%v but for one reason or another — mostly inexcusable — I fail to do so until such base fellow has forever eradi­cated himself of any thought of me.' AVhich is decidedly not the case . . . and the idea still persists that whenever someone wants a good job done excellently and in a hurry, Louis would be the man to do it. Those who knew him will vouch for his capability in just about every line imag­inable. 
"Louis reports that roommate John Dcane is having his annual trouble about signing in and signing out. Then ...'... . September and back to school . . . the football season and it was much like the lour football seasons before , . . now and then an old timer showed up .. . I studied at the law and at the bar at Howells . . . a few week-ends as in past years .. . an article or two for the "Lawyer" .. . a conference at Indiana University in December wherein I staj'ed 
at Kappa Sigma with Tom Radigan. of Gary, 
who once gave birth to a "Dome" . , . coming 
out of the Indiana theatre in Bloomington I ran 
into Bill Riley, the Riley of the Chicago club, 

studying something or other in the hilly terrain 
of Monroe Countj- . . . Bemie Neizer is studying 
law there, as were one or two others . . . then 
came Christmas . . . and January . . . Father 
O'Hara was elevated to the episcopacy . . . and I 
went home . . . exams ... a new semester . . . 
and finally the Bengal Bouts . -. the ninth an­
nual Bengal Bouts, which up to date has been 
advertised as the 10th by some perverse error 
whicli creeps up now and then in every well 
regulated college paper.' 
"Something tells me that the Bengals this year were not to he missed. Incidentally, re. the 'Scholastic' DaPra reports that the rating ser­vice to which it subscribes was not too complimen­tary this year. This is the same rating sen.'ice which solicited the 'Lawyer* and 'the energetic editor of which, one Frank Bright, replied that for a suni of five dollars the 'Lawyer' would gladly rate the ser\-icc.' This last is by DaPra and I do not vouch for its accuracy. 
"From Bay Oty, Mich. Bud Vallcz, one-time Alumni Hall luminary, writes: 
" 'Among my former cronies there are but a few who possibly don't think I'm dead: they are Bill Long, Paul 3lnllcn. and Frank Payne, with whom I have been corresponding quite frenuently. This morning my throat is dry. Possibly it's be­cause I have spent the past half hour licking snap stickers, but more probably it's because of the fond memories which the photos I have been sticking in my Notre Dame album have wrought up inside me. , Before I start crying and wash away everJ'thing with mighty tears I shall get down to the purpose of this letter, to let you know I am still alive and what I have been doing.' 
" 'Last spring and summer I was an appliance salesman for the Power comp.iny. In.September I went to work for my father at the sugar com­pany (Isabella Sugar Company, Mt. Pleasant. Mich.) working 12 hours a day seven days a week until December, and then only working 12 hours a day, six days a week. I was laid off February 12 and since then have been fighting the government trying to get my unemployment compensation, but to no avail. X>ast report I had from them is that I can file a new claim next month when they'll begin using the last quarter of 1939. I am going back to work at the sugar company next week, so now I'll never get my compensation. Some politician w-ill probably buy cigars with it.' 
" 'Was down in Cleveland t\vice last summer and out with Frank Payne. Tim Cruice, '38, was up here last summer. George Ward, *40, and I drove don-n to Detroit one night last summer and met Tommy Sheehan.* Bud wanted me to give his regards to alt the boys and h!s wish that they would drop in on him sometime. He lives at 1S63 McKinley Ave., in Bay City, Mich. 
"Long awaited, and much enjoyed, was the letter from ex-boss Mark Mitchell, who says: 
" 'Every time I read the "Alumnus" and your cries for correspondence, my heart is moved and I say, "there is a fellow I should write to." Then again, I think, "But there are many other people I should also write to. Therefore, it would be un­fair if I wroi.e to that fdlow and not to the many other people, and I don't want to write to many people, and I don't want to be unfair, therefore I won't write at all." (which reasoning, of course, is false, and probably Communistic.) 
" 'I don't seem to see many of the lads around Chicago, but as to the few I bump into, here are a few facts: Dick McKay is doing all right at Med school at U. of C, though I guess it's pretty tough. It's quite true about my ex-roommate. Bob Hoywood. I was up to visit him at the Novitiate in January, and he stayed with, me one week-end on his way there. As for his writing. I'm afraid that it is impossible for at least one long year because of the discipline; how­ever, he can receive mail, and I am sure would appreciate hearing from some of the fellows.' 
" 'Met Frank Clarke during Christmas holidays, 

and he was plenty worried about semester exams 
in Harvard Business School. He tells me that 
Chuck Norton is accounting in Binghamton, and 
commuUng to Rochester week-ends. Nick Lam­
bcrto is selling lumber for the Hines Lumber 
Company in Chicago since the Chicago "Exami­.ner" folded. As for myself. I am in the insur­ance business, and still not ashamed to hold up my head. I recently passed the state insurance broker's srcam, whidi really is nothing to brag about, but which at least puts me in a little better position in the business.' 
"Mark is working with his father in Room 1903, Insurance Exchange Bldg.. Chicago, tot those w'ho wanted his address. Unfortunately, Bob Ilcywood's address completely slipped my mind and I wish someone would please send it to me, when and if they get time. 
"Almost the last letter of the month, one that came -just this day as a matter of fact, was from Joe Harrington. Joe reports from the Canal Zone (Cajilla -13. Colon, R. P.), where he has been hobnobbing with F.D.R. and explaining things to him as thej- went along. He says: 
" 'Have been striking it lucky here. I went to work for Uncle Sam before the general influx of new workers arrived and I am practically a veteran now. I heard some of the later N.D. football games. Seemed odd to be basking out under the palm trees and listening to the games over a portable, what with the announcer's teeth chattering from the cold surroundings of the stadium.' 
" 'Had a letter from AI Uribe a few weeks ago. He lives in Manizales. Colombia. S.A., his home town, which is just over the Andes from here. It's only a 7-iron shot on the map. Being a Manizalcano, he is. of course, in the cofl'ee busi­ness, with Nacional Federacion, as an agricultural chemist.' 
" 'My house has been robbed several times in Februar>*. Among things taken was a copy of Aquinas, and any day now I expect to hear some negro burst out and quote the Saint in old Latin. I saw Red Aitken on a fruit steamer, but he didn't take it. If any of the fellows are com­ing down the Carribean region, tell them to drop in and look me up at customs — but no free-entries. Am getting tired of writing unans\vered letters to Digby, 50 if you let me know what he is doing I'll appreciate it.' 
"At least we have something to be thankful for: there is someone else that Digby doesn't write to either. Honestly, we would like to hear either from or about the gentleman from New Orleans; what he is doing, intends to do. and things like that. Hope to be able to make reiwrt next month. 
"And among other things that carry over from last month is the matter of Frank Conningham, who has been cajoled, begged, solicited, been the subject of novenas, etc., and still won't write. Is he dead? Charlie Nelson, at last report, was writing advertising for the El Dorado Power Co. in eastern Tennessee, and we would like to hear from him how he likes the job, 
"Almost, but not quite, overlooked \vns that voice from the dead, Dick Anton — who sent in a very nice (and, of course, unanswered) letter late in February. Dick is still at the Drovers Bank and Northwestern but finds time for a few other things apparently, as witness: 
" 'Last night I joined a get-together of a few of the boys living in the Chicago area. We met at the good old Bavarian Hof Brau on North Avenue. Present were Frank Fitch, Ken Hisby* John O'Brien, John Walsh, Bart O'Toole, and Red Kcumann. We tried to get hold of a few others, including Joe Rizzi, but they were either out of town or w-orking hard. Jim Walsh has said goodbye to the job at Haskins and Sells for a job with Marshall Field's, doing some sort of tax work for them and getting along very well. Neumann, Higby, and O'Brien are working 10 and 12 hours a day for Sears. Walsh is still struggling along selling insurance on a salary basis, and O'TooIe is going to school. I gathered some notes from them which I shall pass along verbatim.' 
" 'Dick Benedict is worldng in advertising for 

M. Ward and is very much on the job. Paul Kelly is living on ^Vilson Ave., in the new Wilson Hotel with Gene White, of Peoria, and is a con­firmed city slicker by now. Dick Connelly is jn the jewelry business; Paul Rice is at the Chicago Board of Trade. Pitch saw Barney Good and wife, and also Ollie Hclland at the Edgewater Beach not so long ago. Good is studying law at DePaul and enjoying iL Tom Bossart is selling dainty things and is doing it via airplane in the western states.' ­
" 'Sam Wheeler has committed himself to the extent of the fatal rock, but has mentioned no date. Maury Leahy is adorning a local choir in O'TolIe Ephgrave (whatever that means) parish while working for his master's degree in history at the IT. of Chicago. John Wakh received two weighty missives from Hcrm Romberg and Tom Shcchan. Herra claims he and Little Beast Bob Shradcr are meeting regularly in New York.' 
" "The evening was almost ruined when one of the lads from the next table came over and ex­pressed an undying hatred and contempt for chain stores. The Sears boys swarmed all over him, and while T repaired to the bar for a while. Fitch was busily jotting down notes for his re­buttal.' 
"Before closing the column it would I>e unfair to mention that Neumann also came across with his latest m.tsterpicce of Sears fiction; a hard­ware ad which he apparently fathered. But that seems to be just about all for this particular issue 
— late, short, and not to the point seems to sum it all up. One of these days we are going to answer all the letters still on file at one time, but really there just hasn't been much time for anything recently. We arc working hard at being, or tr>'ing to be, a broker, taking a couple of cor­rerpondence courses, studying for a tough exam next month, and being engaged. AVill be glad when summer comes. 
"But in the meantime, we would appreciate hearing from Frank Cunningham. Jim Walsh, Charlie Nelson, John Kohn, Tom Kalman, Hugh Gar^'cy, Ray Schlcck, Paul McArdle, and Tom King. And be assured that no one will be slighted. There is an open invitation to all, and at all times, to submit letters." 
Word from his home in Chicago says that Tom Mclntyre is married and is now working for Scars Roebuck in Muncic. Tnd. He lives at 1803 South Mulberr>- St., Muncie. 



LATE '28 

From Joe Griffin, 405 Farmington Ave., Hart­ford, Conn.: 
"Dear Louie: It looks as though I must plead guilty to being quite a bit behind the times. I just received your letter of March 14 due to my being about three post offices addresses ahead of the one on your mailing list, and due to an in­herited reluctance on my part to open letters postmarked about the first or fifteenth of the month. Also my wife gets the mail, and the fact that it takes her three days to steam open, read and reseal all envelopes addressed in what she thinks is another woman's handwriting didn't expedite matters (You ought to get a male sec­retary), 
"Your thought that the last issue of the 'Alum­nus* should have prepared me for the task of writing this letter is warranted, but without foundation in fact. I haven't seen the past few issues. Probably someone at one of my inter­mediate addresses likes them. Will you please give the Alumni Association my present address. Thanks. (And you can tell them 1*11 pay my dues this year). 
"All of which makes it unnecessary for me to explain now why this letter did not make the March 20 deadline. 
"Hartford is set to give New England welcome to the Notre Dame Band which appears here in a few .lays. (You might as well put in here that the Band was a huge success and is wanted back as soon as possible, because that will certfdnly be the reaction). A large attendance is expected. Everi'one hereabouts has been anxiously waiting for the appearance of a Notre Dame representa­tive or organization since Joe Boland gave such a grand performance when he presented some football pictures last year in Hartford. He had a full house then, and will play to standing room on his return engagement. 
"The Notre Dame Alumni Club of the Con­necticut Valley is having its annual Spring Dance at the Wampanoag Country Club, April 
13. Personally. I'm a wallflower after the second beer, but I'll be there as an obsener anyway. 
"In examining my conscience for the past few years I find the following fellows were doing the fcUowing things when last heard from or about. Bill BroH-n (4) heads the legal department of Allis Chalmers Co., Milwaukee, Wis. John Brown 
(3)
 has been practising law in a big way in Racine since he 'chose not to run' for district attorney, a post he held for two terms. Paul Brnst is an architect in Milwaukee. John Cara­naugh (2) is the New England representative of a national sugar company and has his headquar­ters in Hartford. John Clauder (1) has a real estate and insurance office in Milwaukee. Jack Elder, as eveo'one knows, heads the C.Y.O. in Chicago and is one of the outstanding laymen in the country in the field of Catholic Action. Dick Elpers is an ace salesman with the Columbia Broadcasting System in Chicago. Urb Gebhard 

(1)
 is a doctor in Milwaukee. John Griffin is an attorney with .Cooper, Kanaley & Co. in Chicago. Em Kirwan is city traffic engineer in Louisville. 


"Gil Kirwan (1) is sales representative for a national concern in Atlanta. Chct McDonald (Eelf-e,xpIanator>') is an attorney and represents the Century Indemnity Co. in Boston. He was married in January, and I had the honor of being best man. John McAIanmon (1) heads a depart­ment in the Massachusetts State Highway service and is responsible for the roadside beauty of the entire state. Art McManmon has offices in Bos­ton where he is the eastern representative of an advertising company. Ed McSwecney manages the advertising and art department of Sears, Roe­buck & Co. in Chicago. 
"Tom O'Ncil (2) manages the middle western claim department of the Pacific Mutual Insur­ance Co. Tcnny Peyton is a doctor at the Sacred Heart Sanitarium in Milwaukee. Joe Rcidy (?) is manager of the central states office of an au­tomobile finance company. Jim Stack (2-twins) is a doctor in Chicago. Harold Watson (1) is the Wisconsin manager of the Globe and Rutgers Fire Insurance Co. Vincc Stacc is associated with the Edison Co, and at least five blonds in Detroit. 
"As you may have guessed the parenthetical figures in the above paragraph represent the con­tribution of the proud fathers to the next gener­ation. 
"I have just recently become afKUated with the Connecticut Valley Notre Dame Club and leave to John Cimnd, the president, the reporting of news about its members. 
"In your letter you suggested I should intro­duce your plan to have each 'guest* writer nmnM in his last paragraph the fellow who was to write something for a future issue of the 'Alamnua.* 
•Vengeance is mine/ said the Ix)rd. But I still think that He would not think I was intruding too much if I named Dick Elpers — and I do. After all, it may be about time for him to do some penance. 
STUDENT NOTES 
(Continued from Page 184) 

and Princeton University on an Easter 
vacation jaunt. . . . Monogram Club 
President Steve Coughlin, of Chicago, 
promises another uproarious Monogram 
Absurdities. . . . The Glee Club showed 
its Irish on St. Patrick's Day in a coast-
to-coast hookup of the Mutual Broad­
casting System. . . . Notre Dame -will 
play host to an Intercollegiate PMo­
sophical Conference in Washington Hall 
on April 10 and 11. . . . The Engineers 
are having a closed formal this year. 
April 5 at the Indiana Club. . . . 
Bennie Sheridan, Havana, HI., foot­
ball star of the past seasons, has been 
named head football coach at the new 
John Adams High school in South Bend. 
Our Bennie has played star halfback 
under Coach Elmer for three years — 
he'll receive his Phy. Ed. sheepskin this 
June. 
DOMINATING DEMOCRATS 
Franklin D. Roosevelt is Notre Dame's 
overwhelming choice for president in 
1941. A final cascade of votes from the 
juniors in Howard and Dillon halls en­
abled Roosevelt to retain his substantial 
lead over his opponents in the Scholas­
tic's poll. Vice-President John N. Gamer 
holds second place among the Democratic 
possibilities, with McNutt and Farley 
tied for third. 
Thomas E. Dewey was a poor second to Roosevelt in general student favor. Be­hind him, among the Republicans, were Vandenberg and Taft, respectively. 
WE'LL BE SEEING YOU 
The end is not far off. Soon we Sen­iors will be paging the ALUMNTJS, won­dering how Joe and Bob and Jake are making out, conniving to get good seats for the Army game. And well be out looking for jobs (or should we say posi­tions?). 
We hope that as alumni we may be as loyal and as helpful to Notre Dame as we are now. We trust that we may attain success, as so many of you be­fore us . have. We are leaving God, Country — Notre Dame, but it will always be ours. 
Here we come! Clear the way! Well be seeing yon! 
17+h ANNUAL 





UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT 
MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1940 
FEATURE: National broadcast emanating from the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, through the facilities of Station CKLW and the Mutual Broadcasting System. 
TIME: 8:30-9:00 E. S. T. (7:30-8:00 C S. T.; 6:30-7:00 M. S. T.; 5:30-6:00 P. S. T.) 
11 • jl Ada, Okla. Atwrdeeii. M'asli. IV.VDA KXliO Abilene, Testis AIlKlny, >". Y. Ajnnrillu, Tex. Asliland-Iltuitineton, W. Vn. Atluntn, Ga. Aa;nista. Me. Austin, Texas Bakereneia,- Calif. ' liaUimore. Mtl. Ban;;or, Me. I{elUn;;hani, "Wasli. ISijr Spritisr, Texas ISostun, Mass. Bridgeport, Conn. KltBC WABY KITJA ivcsn WATL •\niDo KNOW KP.MC ^^^^AL, •nxBZ KVOS KBST W^ViVB •\vicc Buffalo. N. Y. WGn-'\\TvnW Cedar Itnpids, Ta. WMT Ccntralia-Cliehalis, Wash. KELA Charlotte, X. 0. wsoc Clilcaeo. III. •VVGX Cliieo, Calir. KHSL Cincinnati, Ohio •WKKC Cleveland. Ohio 1A1IK-WCLE CotTeyrille, Ktinsas KCGP Colambus, Oliio iraKC Bnlhis, Texas Wt K 
Mutual Broadcasting System Stations 
nl.^^oit-^Vinllso^ 

Denver, Colo. Des Moines, la. Duluth-Superior, Minn. Bulutli-Superior, Minn. El Centro, Calif. EIniira, X. Y. EniiMria, Kansas Enid, Okla. EuBene, Ore. Eureka, Calif. Everett, Wash. FlUl River, Mass. Fort Worth, Texas Greeley, Colo. Greenfield. 3I:iss. Ilartfonl, Conn. llilo, Hawaii Honolulu, Hawaii Houston, Texas tiackson, Tenn. Kansas City, Mo. Locunin, N. 11. lx?wTston, Maine I^-xiiif:ton, K}'. Lincoln, Neb. I.onpview, Wash. Los Anueles, Calif. Louis\ile, Ky. 
IXQCIHE OF TltB ABOVE STATIONS 
KFEL KSO A<-EBC WDSM KXO WEXT KTSW KCKC KORE KIE.ir KRKO WSAB KFJZ KFKA ^WLVI WTIIT KllBC KCMB KXYZ 
WTJS 
^YUB 
•Hxxn 
wcon 
^\•^^\^ 
KFOR KWLK IvIIJ WGRC 
 CKIAV 
Lowell, Mass. 
Lubbock, Texas ^Ltnehester, X. 11. Matslifleld, Oregon Memphis, Tenn. Merced, Calif. 
Minneapolis-St. Paul Slontcrcy, Calif. Sluskopce, Okla. Xaslnille, Tenn. Newark, X. J. X'ew Bedford, Mass. Xew London, Conn. Oklahonm City, Okla. Oljinpia, Wash. Omaha, Xeh. Pliiladelphio, Pu. Pitlsficld, Mass. Pittsburch. Pa. Portland, Ore. Providence, K. I. Riileish, X. C. lEeildinc;, Calif. Itichmond, Va. Rochester, X. X. Kockford, 111. Kock Ishmd-DavenportRoscburg:, Ore. 

A^XIJI KFYO 
•WFEA 
KOOS WMPS KYOS 
\YBGX KBOX KBIX WSIX WOU WXBH •»^-XLO KTOK KGY KOIL AVFIL OTtllK WCAE 
K.\LE WK.VN 
wa.\L 
KVCV WBVA WSAY WItOK  ^^^IBF RBNTi 
Rutland. VI. 
Salem, Ore. 
Salisliurj-. X. C. San AnRclo, Texas San Antonio. Texas 
San Bemarclino. Calif. 
San I>iefn>, Calif. 
&U1 Fnincisco. Calif. San Jose, Cailf. San Luis Obispo, Calif. Santa Ana, Calif. Santn B.irbani, Calif. Seattle, Wash. Slmwnee, Okla. Sherman. Texas Sprinfffield, Mass. St. T^ni«. Mo. Tacoma, Wash. Temple, Tex:is Tcxarkana, Texas Tubal, Okla. Visalia. Calif. Waco. Texas Wasliinjjton, B. C. Watcrburj*, Conn. Wenatchee, Wash. Wilkes-Barre, Pa. AViaston-Salem, X. 0. Y'akima, Wash. 

FOR YODB LOCiVL KECEFTtOX OF TILE rKOGR.VJI. 
WSYB KSL.M WSTP KGKL K<\BC IvFXai KGB KFKC KQW IvVEC KVOE KDB KOL KGFF KRKV WSPR KWK KlfO KTE.M KC.MC KOSDE KTKC WACO WOL M'ATIt KPQ WBAX WAIB KIT 


Other Suggestions for Local Clubs 
1.
 Local publicity tie-in with national hook-up announcement, so that cverj-body will know liow to got the prognun. 

2.
 Club meeting, probably dinner, for alumni reception of program. 

3.
 Local radio program, over same or other station, timed to avoid conflict with national hook-up. 


•I. Association oflicors—mo\-ement starting this year to enjoy advantages of having national officers and directors as guests particularly of other Clubs than their own. 
5.
 C S. C. members, especially those stationed at schools and missions near Clubs consideriibly removed from campus. Gives meeting campus touch. 

6.
 Guests—parents of present students, parents of prospective students, high school principles, teachers, etc.. local cIorg>-. local member of Hierarchy if program is of sufficient interest. 

7.
 Speakers—campus figures where possible; LL.Ds. and Laetare Medalists, where thej- live in the Club area. 

8.
 I^ocal radio program particularly suited to Introduction of honorar>' alumni. Medalists, visiting speakers, C. S. C, and distinguished Club alumni. 

9.
 Play up Club members of local prestige such as Grand Knights of K. of C ; presidents civic groups; leaders professional 


groups; loaders cliaritablc work, study clubs, parish programs, utc; newspaper or radio figures. 
10.
 Check with Mutual Stations to secure local cooperation, and afterward be sure to express appreciation for such cooperation, both national and local. 

11.
 "Work in the ladies, -wherever it is feasible. The increasing scope of the Night, •and the broadening significance of its programs \vithin the communities, makes the stag tradition a bit old-fashioned. Everyone enjoys the old "Xotre Dame atmosphere" when it Is properly presented. The ladies are a stimulus to better presentation. 

12.
 To* to secure maximum attendance of your members. This is the Night when all X.D. men should be together in their Clubs. 

13.
 Make the place and the party properly represent the object of the Night. 

14.
 Expressions of greeting to the President of tlie University are in order. Address them to the University, although Fr. Hugh O'Donnell will be in Detroit for the Night itself. 

15.
 Report your event, though your Secretary, to the ALU3INI OFFICE, immediately afterward, as It Is within several days of tlie May deadline. 








