The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

ALUMNUS 
t  '.mmmfm  
Repeat  Performance  
ve  an the same cover a year ego!)  
1949 Goal fo  the Science Building. .31,400,000.00  
1949 Gfts  fo  the Science  Building..  484.365.36  
19D0 G fts  
if i^ \  That  doesn t  mean  failure  /or  the year,  but  failure  to  
4  ach eve the bu Id ng wltbh the year. We'll soon be suc­cessful on all f onts with your support. For details see  
Foundat on  f*pQ t  pages  54-67, end  news  section.  

A Notre Dame Contribution 
to American Culture 
Editor 
WALDEMAR GURIAN 
Managing Editors 
THOMAS T. MCAVOV, C.S.C. 
FRANK O'MALLEV 

What Others Say: 
"I regard the Review of Politics as having very few equals and no supe­riors in the English-speaking world in the serious discussion of international politics." 
—^WALTER LIPPMAN 

"I shall look forward to continued enjoyment of the forthcoming edi­tions of your publication, which I consider among the best now avail­able in any language." 
—MARTIN J. HILLENBRAND^ State Department 

"Your review admirably fills the needs of a humanist who is deeply interested in political problems. You have proved that serious and technical competence do not necessarily entail pedantry; and that objectivity and balance are not incompatible with the free and vigorous treatment of live issues. Above all, I appreciate its free­dom from doctrinaire and national­istic bias. In mundane affairs, thought is never so strong as when it is com­pletely free." 
^.A.LBERT GUERARD, 
Stanford Universit)' 
The Review of Politics is a fine gift for a friend of Notre Dame. 
For one year $3.00 One issue $1.00 
Foreign Subscription $3.40 

THE 

REVIEW OF POLITICS 
Vol. 12 JANUARY. 1950 No. I 
Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.: 
Bishop John Lancaster Spalding and the Catholic Minority (1877-1908) 
Thomas i. Cook:  Theoretical Foundations of  
World Government  
Hannah Arendt:  Peace or Armistice in  
the Near East?  
Adam B. Ulom:  The Crisis in the Polish  
Communist Party  
F. E. Oppenheim:  Belgian Political Parties  
Since Liberation  

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
SUBSCRIPTION BLANK 
The Editors of the Review of Politics Notre Dame, Indiana Please enter my subscription to the Review of Politics for.... ..year(s), at ^3.00 per year. Name Street-
Q Check enclosed City.. 
• Please send bill State.... 




Zhe Jsiotre Dame Alufrifiiis 
This magazine is published bi>monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1, 1939. at the PostofUcCy Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the .American Alumni Council. 
VOL. 28. No. 1 lANUAHY-FEBBUAHY. 1950 Jamas E. Aimsbong. '25. Editor 
Graduates Ursed to Moral Leadership 
-At the Januarj- Commencement and Baccalaureate Mass Jan. 29, the Most Rev. Joseph Ritter, D.D. S.T.D., .Archbishop of St. Louis, and Hon. John F. Kennedy, Congressman from Massachusetts, joined the ranks of the illustrious honorary alumni of Notre Dame. The baccalaureate ser­mon and commencement address were in striking harmony with each other and with the program of religion and citizenship which the Alumni Association has advo­cated for its members. 
A total of 384 undergraduate and gradu­ate degrees were conferred at the com­mencement exercises. Besides Archbishop Ritter and Representative Kennedy, Rear Admiral James L. Holloway, jr., U.S.N., superintendent of the United States Naval .•Vcademy, was also presented with an hon­orary Doctor of Laws degree. 
The commencement week-end program opened Saturday morning, Jan. 28, when graduating seniors made their traditional The Rev. lohn I. Cuvanaugh. C.S.C president oi thoUiiiTersitr. is shown at Januarr last visit to Sacred Heart Church. A break­
Commencement ceremonies in the Navy Drill Hall with the Hon. John F. Kennedy, member 
fast followed in the University Dining Hall. 
oi the House oi Representatires from Massachusetts; the Most BeTerend Joseph E. Bitter. 
\ concert of sacred music by the Moreau 
Archbishop of SL Louis; and Bear Admir<d James L. HoUoway. jr.. n.SJI„ superintendent 
Seminary choir and a reception by the 
oi the United States Naval Academy. 
University administration for graduating seniors and their parents were held Satur­day night. The baccalaureate Mass and 
commencement exercises were on Sunday. proud of the name and patronage of the fore men of the truth of His Teaching. beloved Mother of Christ, is only one of 
"... But it is not enough to be a .Archbishop Ritter said (in part): the branches of the Divine Master's Uni­witness unto the truth of Christ. You must 
versity. He is the real President of your 
".. . The University of Notre Dame, also bear determined and undaunted testi­
school. All officials, high and low, think, 
mony to the life which Notre Dame has 
speak, and act, in His name. And therein 
taught you. 
lies your Alma Mater's basic greatness. "Never perhaps in the history of the 
'". . . May I offer to your reverent con­world has there been such a shameless, 
sideration today the very words which the 
brazen and constant revving of the ideals 
Master spoke on the first commencement? 
of Catholic life. Every day breeds well-
I am doing so because the text contains a full program of life which you would do 
(Continued on Page 14) 

well to study—'You shall be witnesses unto Me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and Samaria, and even to the uttermost parts of the earth!' 'You shall be': He is not LATE ISSUE merely forecasting the future, but His voice rings with the authoritative strength of a 
The January-February issue is command. 'Witnesses': all these joyful and lots because oi the sudden (though at the same time laborious years have long-planned) establishing oi the tended to only one aim. Not that you may plocement program which took Bill become successful professional or business Dooley out of the ALUMNUS. The men. Not that you may startle the world March-April issue is being aimed with a new discovery. Not that you may for April I. with copy due by March acquire wealth and power. Only one bur­15. Bob Stock. '50. former "Scho­den is laid upon your young shoulders; that lostic" editor, has been a new and of witnessing unto Christ! What a priv­Talned hand in the ALUIHINUS ilege! What a destiny! What a glorious editing picture. vista of achievements lies ahead of you! 
J. E. Armstrong. '25. Ed. BepresentotiTe John F. Kennedy "You will, first of all, be witnesses be­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Ward Elected New Alumni President A t Fruitful January Board Meeting 
alumni plan sound, if not always satisfac­
tory. 
Alumni tickets with the label "prefer­ence" no longer connote sideline seats, for some games extending well into the end sections. But alumni preference has re­sulted, on the other hand, in practically eliminating a general public sale for many Notre Dame games. 
Father John J. Caranaugh, C.S.C, '23, president of the University, gave his usual able and anticipated in-the-family, state­of-the-U. talk to the board at its Friday luncheon. With this broad and enlighten­ing backdrop of the University's progress. 
LEO B. WARD 

problems and proposals, board action on alumni integration was greatly aided. The current picture of Notre Dame has much to encourage almnni, as indicated in several o£ the separate stories of this issue and the Foundation report. 
A highlight of the board meeting was the dinner on Friday night at which Father Cavanaugh, four of the University Wee-presidents (Father John Burke \vas ill), the dean of the Graduate School, the five 
Jf (Continued on Page 17) 
Leo B. Ward, '20, Los Angeles attorney, first resident of the Pacific coast to be elected president of the Alumni Association of the University, was named by the Board of Directors of the Association on January' 27 to head the following newly elected officers of the Association: Francis Wallace, '23, Bellaire, O., honorary president suc­ceeding Harry G. Hogan, '04; Rev. Vincent Brennan, '32, Pittsburgh, first vice-presi­dent; Joseph M. Boland, '27, South Bend, second wee-president; Arthur Cronin, '37, Detroit, third vice-president; James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, secrctarj-­treasurcr, and William R. Dooley, '26, as­sistant secretary until a successor is ap­pointed and elected by the Board. 
Harry G. Hogan, '04, Fort Wa>'ne, who was president of the Alumni Association in 1918-19, and who returned in 1947-48-49 to create the University of Notre Dame Foundation through the joint enterprise of the \lumni Association and the University • of Notre Dame, retired from ofiicial iden­t't)-, with the plaudits of the board and alumni everj'where. 
Francis Wallace, journalist-author, con­tinues the work begun during his presi­dency, on the important contribution of alumni to Notre Dame prestige, in his new official capacity' as honorary president. 
The \'ice-presidents will head committees to direct development in Class, Club and Fund activities. 
Four new members of the Board were officially welcomed. Dr. Matthew Weis, '22, SL Louis, Mo., physician; Richard J. Nash, '23, Chicago construction contrac­tor; John Q. .•\dams, '26, New York and Upper Montclair, N. J., cold storage exec­utive, and Har\'ey Foster, '39, Indianapolis, Indiana director of the F.B.I., took over the \-acancies created by the expiration of the terms of Francis Wallace, '23; Louis 
F. Buckley, '28, Chicago, John J. Elder, '30, Cleveland, and Paul R. Mallon, '23, -Alexandria, Va. 
Sincere appreciation %vas expressed by the continuing board for the constructive work done by the retiring directors, which is reflected in stories of developments in -Association programs in this issue. 
The two amendments to the Constitution of the Association, designed to (a) recon­cile the -Association budget year -with the University budget year, and (b) to clarify the Association budget in relation to Unir versity funds, were passed by the member­ship with a gratifying vote of confidence in the Board judgment by votes approving 1513-123 and 1591-55. 
Universal Notre Dame Night, the Class Reunion Program, the Third Council of Local Club Presidents, Local Club enroll­ment committees, the Foundation, the Pres­tige Program, all matters of moment in the -Association, are treated in detail in separ­ate stories in this issue, but obviously con­sumed a substantial part of the meetings of the board. 
Applications for membership from 58 former students of the University were accepted by the board. 
Football tickets were discussed. The board feels that nimibers of alumni,' the championship demands for tickets, the Uni­versity's counter-demands from season ticket holders (including many alumni), the student body (increasing in recent years, with the married student factor also prominent), and the visiting team (with hca\-y home commitments and with rising pressures for larger allocations at Notre Dame as Notre Dame pressures begin to shift to this source), make the present 
New members of Board of DirectorB are, leh to right Dr. Matthew Wete, lohn Q. Adams. Bichard Nash, ond Harrey G. Foster. 
Volume 28, No. 1, January-February, 1950 
uAeal

Qna iiicaicait 
Mrs. Fisher Spurs 
Student SelF-Help 


With Generous Gift 
The announcement by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, president, that through the generosity of Mrs. Sally Fisher, widow of the late Lay Trustee Fred J. Fisher, the University of Notre Dame will begin im­mediately plans for a $750,000 student residence hall, and the administration of a ?250,000 loan fund for students, is one of the most significant in the history of benefactions to the University. 
Only two other donors—Peter C. Rcilly of Indianapolis, and the late Martin J. Gil­len of Land O' Lakes, Wis., have been as generous. 
The history of Notre Dame benefactions is much shorter than the history of the University. In a report by the late Albert 
R. Erskine in 1924, when he was chairman of the newly created Board of Lay Trus­tees of the University, he states that it was not until 1916 that the University—then 74 years old—received its first real bene­faction, a gift of $5,000. 
The present campus was expanded rapidly between 1924 and World War II to accommodate the rising enrollment that numbered 3343 in 1940. Today's enroll­ment, in almost the same physical plant, numbers 4947. The need of new residence halls, even aside from the replacement problem, is evident, and the significance of Mrs. Fisher's provision apprtciated. 
It is undoubtedly in the creation of the quarter-million-dollar loan fund that Mrs. Fisher has displayed the appreciation and the foresight that will contribi:-.e ii.-uch to the continuing opportunities which Notre Dame can offer to young men in the training of the moral, responsible leader­shi'.; of tomorrow's world. 
.America is the land of opportunity if y-oung men and women would only realize it, and take ad\-antage of the opportunity caFered them, according to Mrs. Fisher. 
The widow of the founder of the Fisher Body Co. :n Detroit, Michigan, provided the $250,000 of' the $1,000,000 gift to "present an opportunity for the young man who is willing to work" in the form of a revolving student loan fund. The dormitory will be known as "The Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial." 
-^i^? 

Mrs. Solly Hsher and her lata huaband. Fred J. Fisher 
Mrs. Fisher, whose gift resulted in the receipt of hundreds of messages praising its underlying philosophy, pointed out in an interview that she firmly believes in "providing an opportunity for the willing young man to work his way through school, rather than direct subsidization by the government or by the University." 
.Asked if the "opportunity philosophy," a unique project in modem education, was a new idea, Mrs. Fisher replied: "I believe everyone will agree, although it is some­times forgotten, that the United States was founded as a land of opportunity. Ti-ose who came to America in the early ilays were not benefited by subsidies as they fought to develop this natiou; all they asked was an opportunity. That also was the philosophy of my late and beloved hus­band, Fred J* Fisher, who was a man who made the most of his opportunities. Rather than being a new idea, the philosophy underlying my gift to Notre Dame merely is an attempt to return to the principles upon which the United States was founded." 
Mrs. Fisher observed tliat she has visions of the revolving loan fund, established at >7otre Dame by her gift, increasing steadily after the fund has been in operation for several years. She believes thi't students v'no are benefited by the N-jtre Dair.e fund will, as they repay tlijir own loan -o tiie University, realize the opportunity provided them by the fund and will further con­tribute to the fund in order to provide the same opportunity to a greater numbet of students in the future. 
Joseph P. Sa\-age, Chicago attorney for Mrs. Fisher, reiterated her belief in the "opportunity loan fund" established at Notre Dame. 
"I can remember several times while chatting with Mr. Fisher about various topics, he would say: 'You know, Joe, I believe the underlying ideals on which America was founded have been almost disregarded. During my life time, all that I, and those men whom I knew, asked was a fair opportunity. The trend now is be­coming more and more toward people ex­pecting to receive something for nothing. The sooner we return to the principles of those who founded America and provide more opportunities and fewer subsidies, for our young people, the better off they will be and the country as a whole.'" 
Mrs. Fisher summed up her gift by say­ing that she "believes that the University of jfotre Dame, which was founded and is ad­ministered by the Holy Cross Fathers, bol­stered by this philosophy of opportunity, will receive many worthwhile students who are willing to work and who otherwise would be deprived of the Christian educa­tion provided by Notre Dame. 

ND Communion Sunday Includes Familyt Friends 
The 12th .Annual Universal Communion Sunday, inaugurated by the Notre Dame Club of New York City in 1938, reached on Dec. 11, 1949, a new high in the number of clubs participating, and in the deepening of the combined intellectual and spiritual values of the occasion. One other feature was the increased number of dubs bringing familico of aliiinni, parena of the present students, and other friends or the University into the picture. In the club repoits in this issue, the scope of the occa­sion can be best imderstood. (An out­standing address on the relation of reli­gion and science, given before the Notre Dame Club of Columbus, O., by Rev. Charles A. Curran, will be reprinted in an early issue of the ALUMNUS as one of the great contributions of the 1949 ob­servance.) 
For full reports on individual club observ­ances of Universal Notre Dame Commu­nion Sunday, plus pictures stressing family participation, see the ALUMNUS dub sec­tion beginning on page 22. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 



Bill Dooley Exits From Alumni OKice To Direct New ND Placement Bureau 
William R. Dooley, '26, for 16 years assistant alumni secretary and managing editor of the ALUMNUS, is now the first full-time placement director of the Uni­versity. His appointment was announced on Feb. 2 by Rev. John J. Ca\-anaugh, C.S.C., president. 
In the reorganization of the central Placement Bureau at Notre Dame, Mr. Dooley has given up his official connec­tion with the -Alumni .Association and the ALUMNUS and will devote himself en­tirely to assisting students and alumni with regard to full-time employment. New offices for the Placement Bureau are being arranged on the ground floor of the Main Building, adjacent to the Department of Testing and Guidance, which is under the direction of Edward R. Quinn, '28. 
"I will still be working with alumni individually and with alumni clubs with regard to placement," Mr. Dooley said, "but from a somewhat different approach. Instead of being a part of the .Mumni -Association staff I will be a part of the general University staff. I will be able to work with the students on their place­ment problems while they are still here and I will have knowledge of them and adequate records on them. Then, I will be in a much better position to help them. 
if they need help jobwise, after they leave the campus. 
"The local alumni clubs are of course the key to a great part of alumni job help and we hope to enlarge and strengthen the program of the clubs in this direction. Especially with regard to students just being graduated and going back to their home communities for their first jobs can the clubs be of tremendous help. As we develop our placement work here we'll be able to supply the clubs with individual records and ratings for the men graduating who need employment help." 
huitoT of the Scholastic in 1925-26, Mr. Dooley, following his graduation in 1926, was a reporter for the Peoria (111.) Jour­nal-Transcript and was later advertising and publicity director for the Northern Indiana Public Ser\-ice Company at its general offices in Hammond, Ind. He re­turned to Notre Dame in 1933 and dur­ing most of his years in the aliunni office acted as job counselor for alumni. 
Mr. Dooley served from 1938 to 1945 as part-time director of the student Place­ment Bureau, the first man to hold such a position at Notre Dame. Rev. Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C., 1945-46, and Rev. Robert 
H. Sweeney, C.S.C, from 1946 to 1949, were later part-time directors of the Place­ment Bureau. 
Bill Dooley, who resigned last month as assistant alimmi secretary and managing editor of the ALUMNUS, above lays out a iew ideas for the magazine for Bob Stock. '50. who handled this issue. 
Association Still a Baby When Dooley First Came 
In Januar>-, 1934, the University made a decision that alumni were here to stay. And to the alumni office staff of two (Armstrong and secretary) came the wel­come addition of William R. Dooley, '26, and two more secretaries. 
The helpfulness of the move (after eight years of one-man operation) can be judged by the fact that subsequently we have added twice again as many alumni as the total of that time and have added some 50 clubs to those organized by that year. Since those were the quiet years of de­pression, the extension of organization has also been subject to intensive increase in volume of class and club contacts, as evi­dent in the ALUMNUS magazine. 
Through all these growing pains. Bill Dooley has been a most faithful, able and dependable assistant. In recent years he has been increasingly involved and in­trigued by the growing pace of job coun­seling for undergraduates and graduates. 
It is logical, therefore, that the Univer­sity's decision to establish this as a full time office should include the appointment of Bill Dooley as its director, a step rec­ommended by the Aliunni Board in view of his outstanding qualifications and ex­perience. 
It is with the several purposes of ex­pressing an appreciation to Bill for his work, of assuring all alumni that he is really not out of alumni work but in it in a different way, and to extend full assur­ance of cooperation to Bill from all alumni that this opportunity is utilized. The 16 years of contacts will pay rich dividends to many undergraduates as Bill's new-duties open up. It is good for all of us to know that Bill's abilities, and his personal integrity and his lovely Christian family are still an integral part of Notre Dame and the .Mumni .Association. 
—^Jim .Armstrong 

Capom'sri, Kervick Win 
Special Study Honors 
Dr. A. Robert Caponigri, assistant pro­fessor of philosophy at the University, has been selected by the State Department to receive a Fulbright Research Scholarship for study next year in Italy. Dr. Caponigri will be the first professor to visit Italy under terms of the Fulbright Act, which was passed two years ago to promote in­ternational understanding. 
Professor Francis Ker\-ick, head of the Department of Architecture, has been made an honorarj- associate ijiember of the In­diana Society of the -American Institute of Architects. He was cited by the group for his outstanding contributions to archi­tecture. Professor Kervick is already a member of the Vermont Society of the Institute. 


Prestige Program Outlined (or 27th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night 
Volume 28, No. 1, January-February, 1950 
Four Horsemen Here For 25th Anniversary 
The most famous backfield any football team ever had, Notre Dame's Four Horse­men of 1924, came back to the campus for the Southern California game, Nov. 26, to celebrate the 25th anniversary of its ride to gridiron glory. 
Harry Stuhldreher, Don Miller, Jim Crowley, and Elmer Layden, the real names for Famine, Pestilence, Destruction, and Death in Grantland Rice's famous story, were reunited once again to watch the present-day edition of the Irish mow down the Trojans, 32-0. 
Also on hand for the celebration were some fifteen other members of the great '24 team, which defeated Stanford, 27-10, in N.D.'s only Rose Bowl appearance. In­cluded were the surviving members of the Seven Mules, the line that made the Horsemen's headline runs possible. They were Adam Walsh, captain and center, Chuck Collins, Ed Hunsinger, Joe Bach, and Rip Miller. The deceased linemen were John Weibel and Noble Kizer. Other members of the team who have passed on were Backs Ward Connell and Max Houscr, and Linemen Wilbur Eaton and Vince Harrington. 
Festivities honoring the '24 team and the Horsemen included a reunion dinner on the campus, an appearance at the pep rally in the Field House the' night before the game, a pre-game smoker sponsored by the St. Joe Valley Club, a Press Club Part>-, and a Monogram Club Luncheon game day. The team also offered a Mass in Dillon Hall chapel Saturday morning for its deceased members. 
Between halves at the game the team (Continued on Page 11) 
The 27th .Annual Universal Notre Dame Night, founded in 1924 to spotlight the non-athletic sides of Notre Dame through the local alumni clubs, will obser\'e one of the most significant nights in the event's history on April 17th (the traditional Monday after Easter Monday). 
Frank Wallace, now honorary president of the Alumni Association, has outlined to the Board of Directors of the Alumni Asso­ciation a program of telling the Notre Dame story in its spiritual, cultural, intel­lectual, and other phases to the world, through the agency of Notre Dame men who have themselves achieved a stature and a voice in the world. For want of a more succinct description, this is known as our Prestige Program. 
Its purpose is almost self-evident, and is not new but supplementary in the broad pattern of progress proposed by previous presidents and making slow headway through the years. Wallace's program, by enlisting the active agency of some 450 Notre Dame men who are presently in channels of communication for properly informing the public, is definitely a high potential accelerator for this work. 
The obvious propriety of the program for Universal Night emphasis appealed to the Alumni Board in January, and they sanctioned the appeal to the clubs to make this the 1950 theme. In siunmary, the board's recommendations to club officers are: 
1. There will be no "key city" in the previously designated pattern of earlier nights, but the 1950 observance will be universal and local in the sense that each club will be spotlighted in its own com­munity. 
2.
 To stress this local spotlight, the na­tional broadcast, long a part of the night, will be arranged, if possible, on a m'ght other than the 17th (probably the 18th) which will also give all alumni opportu­nity to listen with family and friends. 

3.
 The local club will stress Notre Dame prestige by presenting local examples and through University speakers in many areas. 

a.
 The University will send out as many speakers as possible to clubs which ask for them (a number of key campus speakers are already booked.) 

b.
 Each club will assemble and spot­light its most distinguished Notre Dame men — alumni, honorary alumni, Lae­tare Medalists, former faculty members, lay trustees, members of the science and engineering and commerce advisory councik, etc. 

c.
 Each club will publicize through press, radio and other channels, the contributions which Notre Dame has made to the particular community and to the moral, responsible leadership of the world. 



4.
 Clubs will award their second Man­of-the-Year award to an outstanding local alumnus. 

5.
 Club charters will officially be in­stituted on this occasion. 

6.
 Clubs are being asked by the alumni office to establish the long recommended Committee on Contacts With Preparatory Schools, so that this committee membership can be officially identified on Universal Notre Dame Night. 

7.
 Clubs will be supplied, as in recent years, with sufficient material through the .Aliunni and Public Information Offices to permit fiJl presentation of the story of Notre Dame which this year's night will spotlight. 


From the above outline, clubs which have not already begun plans (and some are well advanced) can begin the preparation of programs in keeping with the 1950 ob­jective. Athletics have brought great pres­tige to Notre Dame; the Notre Dame alumni who won monograms have brought great prestige to Notre Dame. But Uni­versal Notre Dame Night was established when Notre Dame was also national cham­pion in football and when the Four Horse­men and Knute Rockne were household words, to turn the national spotlight on the many achievements of Notre Dame in fields other than athletics. 
Clubs are urged to keep this fundamental purpose in mind, which in no way de­
As was to be expected, the photogs had 
a field day when the Four Horsemen came 
-back to the campus for the 25th anniversary oi their famous season. Here, outlined tracts from athletic prestige or precludes against aa exceedingly gray November sky and mounted on ioiu bored ponies, are the presence of coaches or players as spot­Don Miller, Elmer Layden, lim Crowley and Harry Stuhldreher. light guests. 

Kiley Elected ND Law Association President 
Science Building 
Still Foundation's 
Goal for 195 0 
The immediate objective of the Notre Dame Foundation will continue to be the proposed Science Building until sufficient money is available for that structure to be erected. In 1949, $484,365.36, from alumni and non-alumni, was contributed to the Sci­ence Building fund. However, the end of this past year found the goal of a new Sci­ence Building still short by $915,634.64. 
On Dec. 31, 1949, funds restricted for the Science Buildinj totalled $1,171,546.44. However, with added impetus from the Eighth .•\nnual Alumni Fund, an additional $40,000 was available for this project as the -ALUMXUS goes to press. 
One of the highlights during the past t\vclve months was the response of 7,517 lo)-al alumni who gave $506,231.16. This was an increase of $54,332.88 over 1948. Another important feature in the Univer­s\ty's fund-raising program was evidenced by an additional 544 more alumni contributing last year than in 1948. 
The Eighth .•\nnual Fund, in 1950, will spearhead an intensified program to secure the remaining monies needed to. start con­struction of the proposed Science Building. (For a full Foundation report, see page 54). 
Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, pioneer in the Great Books movement at the University of Chicago, spoke t^vice on the campus last semester. Dr. .'\dlers talks, both sponsored by the Concert and Lecture Se­ries, were on "The Liberal Arts," and "Poetry and History." 
Blarney Class 
Sure and you say there are no Irish at Xotre Dame? 
Begorrah. your opinion %nll be changed when you read over the list of students enrolled this semester in a single class in the Department of Speech. Instructor Robert J. Affeldt, who teaches the class, counted no less than fifteen Irish noses when he first took the roll at the opening of the spring semester. 
Leading the Gaelics are four Mur­phys, two Brennans, and nine other staunch Irish names such as Clancy, Du&y, Duggan, Hogan, McCarty, Mc-Govem, McKenna, Connor and Reilly. 

True, Notre Dame is a school of all nationalities and descents, with stu­dents enrolled from all 48 states and from 26 foreign countries. But it looks like the Irish are still holding their own at theliome of the Fighting Irish. 
Members of the Notre Dame Law -Associ­ation held their annual meeting and election of officers in conjunction with the third Natural Law Institute at the University Dec. 9 and 10. Elected by the Board of Directors to head the association for 1950 were: 
President, Judge Roger J. Kiley, Illinois -Appellate Court, Chicago; vice-president, William B. Jones, Washington, D. C ; sec­retarj'-trcasurer, Henr>' P. Schrenker, -'\nder­
son, Ind.; executive secretarj-, Robert E. Sullivan, professor, Notre Dame College of Law. 
.•\mbrose O'Connell was named honorarj­president at the meeting. 
Fifty-five members of the association at­tended the general meeting, which was high­lighted by a luncheon at the LaSalle Hotel in South Bend. Francis Jones, retiring presi­dent, presided and introduced the new offi­cers. The executive secretary reported on the association's first full year. 
The board meeting approved a proposal to mail the four issues of the Notre Dame Lawyer to all dues-paying members for the coming year. -'\n "--\ssociation News­letter" was mailed separately in Januar)-, but from now on it will be included as an insert in the Lawyer. 
-•Mso approved was continuation of the re­union party in June and the luncheon at the -American Bar Association convention. Placement of alumni la\vyers and law grad­uates was discussed, but action was deferred until the June meeting—pending further study by board members. 
M UNI CI PMyv*A;U5DiT Ol 
One of the stops on the UniversitY Glee Club's between-semester concert tour of the Southwest was in San Antonio. Texas. Above, children from San Antonio grade schools gather outside the city's Municipal Auditorium after the club's infoimal morning concert, Feb. 3. In the evening (note banner) the Glee Club en­tertained more than 200 San Antonians. The club, which was directed by Pro­fessor Daniel H. Pedtke. has been making tours since 1915. 
Volume 28, No. 1, Jcmuary-February, 1950 
Program Set U p President Names Foundation Committee 
For Five -Year 
Class Reunions 
Second of the annual Class Reunions to be held the week following commencement is gaining strength and promise through the early planning, and the coordinating of the several class chairmen, the class sec­retaries, and the enlistment of the experi­ence of last year's class chairmen and secretaries. 
Basically, the reunion program on June 9, 10 and 11 lines up thus: 
1.
 Leave your wife at home. This unpopular and undesirable injunction is peculiar to this year when the alumni reunions, which can house all our alumni (but not wives) on the campus, finds an Elks Convention taxing not only all the hotel and food facilities of South Bend, but even some of the resi­dence halls on campus for anticipated overflow. (This obviously also must be extended to postpone the time when we can set up facilities for sons on the campus at the .same time.) 

2.
 General registration will take place on June 9 and 10 at the main entrance to the campus. 

3.
 Class registration will take place in the hall assigned to your class. 

4.
 Golf, tennis, swimming, etc., will be in operation throughout the week­end, with an alumni golf tournament, class tournaments, class Softball games, and a spectator sport (baseball game if possible) on Saturday afternoon. 

5.
 Class reunion dinners or buffets will be arranged on the campus Friday night. It is the hope of the board and the chairmen and secretaries that all activity can take place on the campus. 

6.
 Saturday morning, class Masses in the hall chapels will be followed by class pictures, and by the newly sug­gested election by the class of a full set of officers for the ensuing five-year period — president, vice-president, secre­tary and treasurer. 

7.
 Saturday afternoon, in addition to a game of some interest, an academic meeting will be held, tentatively provid­ing for a sur\-ey at the half centurj' of the five undergraduate colleges of the University, by the deans of these col­leges. This should be of interest to all alumni. 

8.
 The general Alumni Banquet on Saturday Night will be followed by en­tertainment, general or by class groups. 

9.
 The Reunion weekend will con­clude with the Mass for all alumni in Sacred Heart Church at 10 o'clock on Sunday, with a sermon of significance to Catholic college men. 


Your class chairmen will keep you posted on additional details. Plan now to attend. 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., has ap­pointed an Executive Committee to adminis­ter the alTairs of the University of Notre Dame Foundation under his direction. Frank 
C. Walker, '09, New York City Foundation Chairman, and chairman of tlic Committee on .-Vlumni and Public Affairs of the Asso­ciate Board of Lay Trustees, will serve as Chainnan of the Executive Committee. 
Other members of the committee include, left to right, seated, Rev. John H. Murphy, 
C.S.C, vice-president in charge of public relations at the University; Mr. Waller; Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University; and Rev. Theodore Hes-burgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president. 
Standing are John Caddey, Foundation oIHce staff; J. Arthur Haley, director of pub­lic relations; James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary and Foundation vice-chairman; John B. Kanaley, Foundation co-chaimian in New York City; and Herman Zitt, Foun­dation office staff. 
Radiation Chem Project to Get Atom Smasher 
The laigc Radiation Chemistry Project at Notre Dame will be joindy sponsored by Notre Dame and the Atomic Energy Commission, according to a contract an­nounced by Rev. John J. Ca\'anaugh, C.S.C., president. 
This is one of the several significant scien­tific programs for which the University of Notre Dame Foundation is seeking the new $1,400,000 Science Building Fund. 
Under the terms of an agreement reached between Notre Dame and the Atomic En­ergy Commission, the ."VEC will provide a 2,000,000 volt Van dc Graff electrostatic generator for use by the Notre Dame Ra­diation Chemistry Project. The new "atom smasher," which will produce both high ve­locity electrons and X-rays, will be housed in a concrete structure to be built by the University. This structure, separate from the Science Building proper, is expected to be ready for operation next spring. 
The new electrostatic generator, when in­stalled, will be the second such generator used at Notre Dame to conduct atomic re­search. A 4,000,000-voIt generator is now used for experimentation in the Department of Physics. Used primarily for research in nuclear physics, this generator was em­ployed for radiation chemistry research dur­ing AVorld War II, when Notre Dame was the center of a large portion of the radia­tion chemistry work done in the Manhattan District. 
Purpose of the Radiation Chemistry Pro­ject at Notre Dame, which is concerned only with fundamental scientific research, is to study the general effects of high en­ergy radiation which are produced in the processes of radioactive decay in all types of substances. It is the aim of the Notre Dame project to determine what harm and what good this radiation does, and why it does harm and good. Such scientific material is fundamental to the development of atomic power, and has application in many other fields. 
Director of the Radiation Chemistry Pro­ject at Notre Dame is Dr. Milton Burton who during World War II -was in charge of the Radiation Chemistry Research of the Manhattan District Project Dr. Burton ^vas a scientific obser\-er at the Bikini tests fol­lowing the war. 
David E. Lilienthal, chairman of the United States Atomic Energj' Commission, visited the University last fall. Mr. Lilien­thal addressed the students and faciUty in Washington Hall, and also inspected the laboratory facilities and scientific research being conducted at Notre Dame. Ten grad­uate students in the Departments of Chem­istry, Physics and Mathematics currenUy are holders of Atomic Energy Commission Fel­lowships. 
"There is no need to deprecate the de­structive power of the atomic bomb; any­one who does so is very foolish." Mr. Lil­ienthal said. "But our interest in the bomb is simply as a deterrent toward aggression. We are far more interested in the peaceful application of atomic energy." 
Guests ot the 12th armual Irish Football Banquet heard talks by center. Coach Fronk Leahy ond Center Jerry Groom, captain oi (left) Coach Carl Snovely of North Carolina, and (right) Dr. Carl next fall's Irish, cut open the 1950 gridiron coke, os 1949 Co-cop-Leib. University oi Iowa, former president oi the N.C.A.A. In the tains Jim M=rtin (left) ond Leon Hart look on. 
Irish Grid Team Heaped With Honors 
By 1200 Testimonial 
More than 1200 coaches, educators, ath­letic celebrities, sports writers, and Just plain fans turned out to honor the 1949 Irish football team at the 30th annual civic testimonial banquet in the Notre Dame Dining Hall, Dec. 12. 
Trophies, monograms, gifts, and volumes of praise were showered on the Irish grid­ders at the banquet, sponsored every year by the Notre Dame Club of the SL Joseph Valley. 
Ray Roy, president of the national Monogram Club, presented Coach Frank Leahy with the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell Trophy, annually awarded by the club to the national championship team picked in the Associated Press poll. 
Leahy once again called last fall's team his greatest ever, making special reference to the 19 graduating lettermen. Twenty others received monograms at the banquet. Leahy warned the latter to "start pre­paring themselves for a hard spring prac­tice session. There's going to be an im­portant meeting on Cartier Field next March 17." 
In keeping with Leahy's "get-ready" spirit, Co-captains Jim Martin and Leon Hart presented' • the- traditional. captain's . shillelagh to junior center Jerry Groom, next year's team leader. "I hope I can be half as successful as they were," Groom said. 
A large part of the evening was spent reciting the long list of .\ll-.American and trophy awards made to graduating grid­ders Leon Hart, Emil Sitko, and Jim Mar­tin. 
Coach Carl Snavely of North Carolina described Notre Dame as the "home of champions" and said he got the impression of watching eleven coaches when he saw the Irish play. 
 Banquet Guests 
"And yet it is not your size, speed, muscle, stamina, strength and skill which make you great," Snavely added, "it is your pride, conscientiousness and endeavor, concentration and indomitable courage. .\nd they all add up to character." 
Dr. Karl Leib, of the University of Iowa and president of the National Collegiate Athletic .Association, defended the N.t^.A.­.A.'s football sanity code, asserting that though the code is sometimes violated, its general observance, promotes the welfare of college athletics. 
Speaking for the University, the Rev. Theodore H. Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive \-ice-president, said that college football is under fire from many quarters and that every college must re-examine its policy. 
Jim Britt, Boston sportscaster, was toast­master for the banquet. He introduced Dean Clarence E. Manion, of the College of Law, who spoke for South Bend's Mayor George A. Schock, who was unable to attend because of illness. 
Silent tribute was paid at the banquet to James M. Costin, South Bend Tribune sports editor who died last Ma\ - Ray Ei­chenlaub, former Irish fuUbacK; and Colonel Or\'ille Mohler, former star back at South-' em California, who was recently killed in a 
plane crash. 
New Holy Cross Hospital 
Ground was broken in December for the new Holy Cross Hospital in Austin, Texas. The hospital, aimed particularly at caring for Negro patients in the .Austin area, will be a two-story masonry building, with space for 52 beds and facilities for adding more bed space. The Rev. Francis Weber, C.S.C., '31, is head of the building com­mittee. 
'Review of Politics' Notes Bishop's Education Plan 
A "radical" educational plan proposed by a 19th century bishop might have as­sured a more harmonious bond between the Catholic Church and millions of non-Catholic Americans today if it had been adopted, said the Rev. Thomas T. Mc-Avoy, C.S.C, in the January issue of Notre Dame's Review of Politics. 
The plan, advanced by Bishop Lancaster Spaulding, was to set up a central Catholic University for the United States, a place where specially qualified priests and lay­men would go for ad\-anced study, and from which would come authoritative statements on the social, moral, and intel­lectual problems of the day. 
.Adoption of Bishop Spaulding's plan, said Father McAvoy, would have far better equipped Catholics "to withstand the ma­terialistic pragmatism which is eating away at the very essence of true humanism in .American life . . ." 
Chief Crowd Handler Retires After 20 Years 
William H. Duley, Notre Dame's chief crowd'handler for 20 years, resigned last fall after his last football season. Duley, whose official title was director of stadium personnel, was the man who kept hordes of spectators monng smoothly and swiftly in and out of all the big athletic and aca­demic events on the campus. 
During home football games, his biggest job, Duley operated from an office under the north end of the stands. With 60 mes­sengers and an inter-stadium telephone sys­tem he kept track of the more than 900 ushers, ticket takers, and supervisors who directed the flow of those 50,000-plus crowds. 
Volume 28, No. 1. lanuary-February, 1950 
Natural Law Institute Emphasizes Moral Restraint on Claims oF Big Government 
The Natural Law — the law of God 

recognized by human reason — was stressed 
as a moral restraint against the growing 
claims of big government all over the world 
at the third annual Natural Law Institute 
held Dec. 9 and 10 in the College of Law 
at Notre Dame. 
More than 600 lawyers, jurists, educators, 

and students from all over the nation at­
tended the Institute. 
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, was chairman of the institute, which was sponsored by Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati businessman. Honorary chairman was the Very Rev. Vincent J. Flynn, president of the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul. 
Highlight of the Institute was an address by Brigadier General Carlos P. Romulo, president of the General Assembly of the United Nations. General Romulo's talk on "Natural Law and International Law" was broadcast over a coast-to-coast network of the Columbia Broadcasting System. 
Other speakers included the Hon. Rich­ard O'Sullivan, former King's Counsel of Great Britain; Professor Edward S. Corwin, of Princeton University, and Professor Stephan Kuttner, of the Catholic Univer­sity of America. 
Plaque Unveiled 
Special feature of this year's sessions was the unveiling of a bronze plaque commem­orating the establishment and history of the Institute. Separate bronze tablets be­neath the plaque, which has been placed in the foyer of the University's Law Build­ing, will record the program, speakers, topics, and sponsor of each year's sessions. 
Another special event was the founding of a natural law library, believed to be the first of its kind in the world. To be known as the Alvin A. Gould Collection, in honor of the Institute's sponsor, the librarj' will consist of a complete group of books and materials on the natural law and will be accessible to scholars and stu­dents. 
In his address General Romulo asserted that lasting peace will come in the world only after the establishment of a system of just law, universally accepted and applied. 
"By just law," he explained, "I mean law based on reason, consonant with the essential requirements of man's nature and deriving ultimate sanction from the source of all authority, God Himself. I reject as inimical to peace that false law which recognizing no higher sanction than the authority of the state, has produced regi­mentation in lieu of order, total tyranny in lieu of freedom, and class war rather than harmony and peace in hiunan societ)'." 
"Our age is permeated with the spirit of secularism, and it is impossible to say that the nations are yet aware of the need for the natural law as the basis of stability and order in modem society," General Romulo added. But he indicated that in the work of the United Nations there is a definite tendency to make international law conform to natural law. 
War Now Absolute 
"The destructive power of modem tech­nology has made war absolute," General Romulo continued, "and is driving us, almost in spite of ourselves, to the realiza­tion that some form of Christian order may be the only salvation of our way of life." 
"The practical application of Christian teaching in international relations has be­come a condition for the attainment of world peace and security," he said. "And considering the power for annihilation latent in the new weapons of war, may we not go even further and say that faithful ad­herence to Christian doctrine and the law of God has become a sine qua non of the survival of mankind?" 
Mr. O'Sullivan, speaking on "The Nat­ural Law and the Common Law," declared that a hea\'y responsibility rests on the lawyers and law schools of the United States to elucidate the philosophy and theology of the law at a time when the restatement and enforcement of the fun­damental rights of human personality to life, liberty, and property and the pursuit of happiness are paramountly needed. 
Professor Corwin, speaking on "The Nat­ural Law and Constitutional Law," as­serted that freedoms of speech, press and religion are legitimate offspring of the natural law and splendid proof of its fer­tility in a free state. "But natural law," he said, "conectly imderstood, is a law which governs men in society and so is tender of the social order no less than of the rights of its human constituents." 
Ftofeswr Kuttner, speaking on "The Nat­ural Law and Canon Law," said that the functioning of natural law must be grasped in the spirit of the legal order of the Church. "To have dcinomtiated that the natural, created order of right reason is necessarily presupposed by, and persists within the unique framework of a society that rests on supranatural foundations — this is perhaps the greatest contribution of Canon Law to the doctrine of natural law," 
he added. 
Four Horsemen Refum 
(Continued from Page 7) 

appeared on the field in the center of a giant star formed by the Notre Dame Band. Captain Walsh accepted tokens of remembrance from the Monogram Club and asked for a moment of silent prayer for his departed teammates. The cere­monies were climaxed by the presentation of 25 red roses to Miss Jean Rocknc, daughter of the squad's unforgettable coach, Knute Rockne. It was the '24 team that gave the Rock his first national champion­ship. Miss Rockne represented her mother, Mrs. Bonnie Rockne, who was unable to attend. 
After the game Coach Frank Leahy said the presence of the '24 team, coveted by most of the nation's newspapers, inspired his '49 outfit to one of its best perform­ances in defeating Southern Cal. 
The; morning of the game the Horsemen visited Jack Miles, '47, who is still fighting a battle against polio in St. Joseph Hos­pital in South Bend. Jack's father, J. F. Miles, was a senior at the University when the Horsemen were freshmen. 
Dignitaries attending the third Natural law  Inslitnt* indndad (loft to right) VnS—Mot 
Stephen Kuttner, Catholic UniTenDty of America: th* Hon. Kehard (XSalliTaB. ;^ocmer king's counsel of Great Britain; and Professor Edward S. Corwin. of Princeton Unirnsitr. speakers; and Alvin A. Gould, sponsor of the Ihsiitule: Dean aarenc* Manioa of the Col­lege of Law; and Professor Heinrich Rommsn. College of SL Thomas, gnest of the Inaiiiate. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

The Biggest Problem in Sports 
Cahill Lists Main Points in Football Ticket Distribution 
At its January meeting, your Alumni Board moved for the continuance of 1949 Football Ticket regulations for alumni, with only one or two changes, mechanical in nature. We'll restate here, then, the major points to be observed in 1950 ticket dis­tribution. 
1. Advance sale to Alumni will OPEN JUNE 20 .\ND CLOSE JULY 
15. Previously Alumni sale opened on July 1. 
2. Alumn i contributors to the Seventh Annual Alumni Fimd for 1949, plus religious and honorary de­gree holders, will be eligible for 1950 alumni order forms. Beginning last year, you will recall that the contribu­tion period was placed on a year-ahead basis. If you contributed at any time during 1949 you are automatic­ally eligible for 1950 priority. 
To include the Class of 1950 (there are about 1200 of them, incidentally) we have set a deadline of June 4, 1950 (Commencement) for contributions from 1950 graduates. Contributions made at any time during 1950 will qualify the alumnus for 1951. 
3. Alumni application blanks will be mailed to contributors as stated above prior to June 20th. These blanks will offer two tickets for all games, both home and away, and will be honored until July 15th, OR UNTIL THE TICKET SUPPLY IS EXHAUSTED. 
Our Alumni Association has reached such membership that outright guaran­tee of tickets is no longer possible. We have now about 17,000 members, of which the Alumni Secretary esti­mates 10,000 will be qualified for tick­et priority under Regulation 2 above. Obviously, this potential exceeds our ticket supply for all away-frora-home games (Navy at Cleveland will be a "home" game). Because of our large student body, concessions to parents, 15,000 season ticket holders. Univer­sity administrative needs, monogram section, etc., the alumni potential creates a situation for our home games that is almost as acute. 
Last year, for example, alumni orders for our Southern California game in Notre Dame Stadium were so heavy that remaining tickets offered to the general public lasted ONLY ONE DAY. The general public sale for that game opened and closed on August first. 
Nevertheless, in practice, advance 
BY ROBERT M. CAHILL, '34 Football Ticket Managci 
sale to contributing alumni is still tan­tamount to a ticket guarantee; but our '49 experience proved that outright guarantee is simply no longer work­able. Part of the difficulty stemmed from the geographical swapping that occurred amon g the guaranteed orders. 
Hence, partially because of this trad­ing, but even more so because we feel that most alumni seem to think it im­practicable, the Alumni order form will not require the signatures of alumni certifying as to personal use. Nevertheless, the alumni application form itself must be used by the alum­nus to whom addressed. Thus both the guarantee and personal xue re­quirement will be discarded for 1950. 
I9S0 FOOTBAU SCHEDULE SepL 30—North Carolina at ND Oct. 7 Purdue at Notre Dame Oct 14 Tulane at New Orleans Oct. 21 Indiana at Bloomington OcU 28 Michigon State at ND Nov. 4 Navy at Cleveland Nov. II Pittsburgh at Notre Dame Nov. 18 Iowa at Iowa City Dec. 2 So. California at L. A. 
4. General-use applications will be forwarded to ALL alumni, contribu­ting and non-contributing, about July 
1. These forms may be used for order­ing additional tickets, are transferable, but carry no priority. They are effect­ive only AFTER Alumni sale closes July 15, if any tickets remain. Even so, these general forms will be put in the hands of alumni about two weeks before they will be a\-ailable to the public. 
Thus even the non-contributing alumnus is given an advantage over the public. For a game such as Navy at Cleveland, for example, this is no small advantage, in view of public in­quiries now piling up in this ofiSce. 
5. General public sale will open, as usual, on August 1. Many alumni can save themselves time and embarrass­ment by requesting the ticket office to send general public order forms direct­ly to friends, business associates, etc. 
At the moment, this applies only to home games, but the Alumni literature itself will designate which games will be open to the public—through Notre Dame's allotment, that is. 
And now for a few general observa­tions: ALUMNI CLUBS: the Univer­sity recognizes the desire and need of Alumni Clubs at the site or in the vicinity of away-from-home games, for a supply of tickets over and above in­dividual orders. Club officers should make known such desires to the Athletic Department or to the Alumni Secretary IN JUNE, at which time tentative reservations will be made, always subject to individual sale. This applies equally to clubs planning to sponsor special trains to home games. 
THAT FIFTY-YARD LINE: We have now reached a point in demand and supply where the key word in alumni ticket priority must simply be AVAILABILITY. You get first crack at the tickets available, but the choice seats in alumni sections are so few in relation to huge demand that only a small portion of alumni orders will receive choice seats. In 1941 all alum­ni orders—^at four tickets per alumnus —were filled inside the 30 yard line, with some to spare for the public. At our Tulane and Southern Cal games last fall, less than half of alumni orders — at 'two per member — were inside the goal line. And the majority of alumni orders were received in the first 15 days of the sale. 
Thus, now that we are dealing in such lai^e numbers, the early order is not assured of a so-called preferred seat. Fortunately, our own stadium doesn't have a poor scat, but the same cannot be said of all stadia in which we appear. We have no choice now but to think of alumni preference in terms of availability, not location. 
APPRECIATION: The 1949 foot­ball season, from the standpoint of orders handled and work-hours in­volved was the most difficult encoun­tered by the present Ticket Staff. It is more gratifying, therefore, to tell you that 1949 complaints fell to such a low as to be numerically negligible. Frankly, we can't recall more than three. We have concluded that Notre Dame alumni arc surely the most reasonable of men, and we hereby tender our sincere thanks for your patience with us in handling what has been termed by some as the most difficult problem in sports. 

Volume 28, No. 1, January-February, 1950 
Notre Dame Books SPOTLITE ALUMNI FAMILY 
WHO SHALL BEAR THE FLAME? by Jules-Geraud Cardinal Saliege. Fides Publishers, 325 Lincoln Way West, South Bend 5, Ind., 1949. $2.75. 
These war and post-war messages by the archbishop of Toulouse, inflaming and yet substantial in themselves, have t^vo added meanings for Notre Dame men: their translator from the French is Rev. Speer Strahan, '17, renowned poet of his student days and, later, war chaplain and Notre Dame professor; and their publisher is the Fides Publishers, an organization of Notre Dame alumni devoted to the Catho­lic apostolate. 
The volume of Cardinal Saliege's writ­
ings appeared in print on November 1, 
1949, and has already won enthusiastic 
acclaim. Their central theme revolves about 
the Christian dignity of man. All but the 
concluding papers were written during 
World War II, many of them while France 
was held by the invader. 
Alumni looking toward the regeneration of society by Catholic Action will find in the Cardinal's courageous writings a new fountain of zeal and hope.—W.R.D. 
THE MAGIC PEN, by Anne Heagney, Bruce Publishing Co., 1949, $2.50. 
Alumni interest in this book will center in the fact that it is a fictionized life of Frances Fisher Tieman, who was awarded the Laetare Medal by Notre Dame in 1909. Writing under the pen name of Christian 
The McLaughlin Family: back, Mr. and Bfra. loha ^ MeLangfcliii: faeat. loan Eliiobatli. 
Reid, she was one of this country's early 
10; Joseph MichaeL 2; lames Patridc, 7; KolUaen Hatf. 4. cmd leha Claaient, 9­
women authors. Her novels enjoyed vast popularity during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The McLaughlin family of Cumberland Laughlin and Moran, wholesale beer dis­
Written for older children. The Magic Hill, R. I., believes in getting things done tributors. Pen is an account of Mrs. Tieman's youth in advance. The McLaughlins' three boys 
His three sons were all registered at the in North Carolina, her conversion, and her are eight, seven, and two-and-a-half years 
University within a short time after their struggle for success. In addition to fur­
births. John Clement, bom March 11,' 
old, but all of them are already registered 
1941, was registered on St Patrick's Day nishing a lively and readable story, the 
at Notre Dame and raring to go. The boys 
in 1942; James Patrick, bom Dec. 5, 1942, book also gives young readers an insight are preparing themselves for grid careers 
was registered Jan. 1, 1943; and Joseph at the University, and if they have half Michael, bom April 21, 1947, was reg­into the problems of southerners during 
the cruel days of the Reconstruction. The the energy of their father, they're sure istered May 21, 1947. 
faith and courage of the heroine, her fam­ily and friends, will provide inspiration as to star. The senior McLaughlin, a member of the well as entertainment.—^K.T.D. Dad John J. McLaughlin graduated from "B" team in his Notre Dame days, is confi­
ND in 1934 and ever since has been ener­dent at least one of his sons will make the 
getically active with alumni clubs — at one varsity. Besides the three young under-
time president of the Rhode Island-South­grads, McLaughlin and his wife are the 
MAN AROUND THE HOUSE, by Norbert 
eastern Massachusetts Club. As a sort of parents of two girls, Kathleen and Joan Engels; Prentice-Hall, Inc., 70 Fifth sideline activity he's senior member of Mc­Elizabeth. 
Ave., New York 11, N. Y.; $2.95. 
The title of this book plagues me. Nor­bert Engels is not a man-around-the-house house and that is why his is a great However, I am sure that any Notre in the usual acceptance of that phrase and Notre Dame book. Dame man disciplined in the scholastic the usual meaning of the word 'house.' He There may be, in these days of labora­rigors of Father Con Haggerty, nourished 
putters about and dignifies the greater tory science, men who never sat in on the on the finr. fodder of Father Matt Walsh's house of God's Creation and especially Washington Hall introductions of celebri­
learning and sparked by the rapier genius 
that province of it which is Notre Dame. ties by the former president, the original of Father Charles L. CDonnell, must I am not altogether sure that people will Father John Cavanaugh. Such are to be cherish this book mightily. Probably it recognize, from the title, the house of pitied because they may have difficulty comes as close to reminding an alunmus many mansions to which the author dedi­catching the rare bouquet of Catholic of his substantial values in life as anything cates his roguish benediction. Above all living which Professor Engels breathes upon ever done by a graduate without benefit of Mr. Engels is a man about Our Lady's the initiated reader. 
The Nofre Dcnne Alumnus 
a nihil obstat from Fort Wa>Tie. Here are a few random tastings well aged in the oaken staves of Author Engels: 
".. . To hear the arpeggios and ca­dences of a buzz saw as it breasts its way cleanly through a board, like an edgewise reed severing the current of a stream. Or finally to smell the ripe orchards in the apple wood, the incense of the cedar, as they surrender to the will of you and the shapes your purpose imf)oses." 
He says, "The desire to sa\-e junk begins with the desire to have pockets in your pants, maybe sooner. What kind of junk you collect depends somewhat on time, the size of your pockets and the fecundity of your neighbor's trash barrel." This is worth a ponder. 
• I suspect that immense wisdom worthy of decades of cogitation lies beneath the smooth wording of this greying fellow of good letters. Not that you should gain the notion that he preaches to you with a hea\-y-handed allegory, — not Engels! 
Whate\-er "Man Around the House" may provide you with, I can assure any old student who knew Notre Dame prior to 1924 that it will resurrect the rich, deep tones of a Father John Ca\-anaugh I ex­cursion into cultured rhetoric as he intro­duced some visiting nabob from the planks of the Washington Hall stage. The en­ticing play of his biretta. The grandilo­quent flip of his C.S.C. caf)e which so many have imitated while so few have captured the gesture veritable. Engels has caught it closely. 
Read i t You must, if your \-intage is of a good year, like it as surely as I do. —\^NCENT F. FAG.\N, '20. 

January Graduates Urged to Study Divine Text 
(Continued 
planned new campaigns to \-ilify the very fundamentals of personal, family, and na­tional bcha\'ior which are the breath and \'igor of the Notre Dame spirit. 
"Our leading universities hire professors, who, in the name of so-called science or freedom of thought, drill into the minds of youth that self-restraint is a peril to samt>-, that the laws of the Decalogue arc outmoded regulations to be replaced by a code more conformable to the modem mode of thinking. 
"Our daily press, our film productions, our theater shamelessly batter the founda­tion of the family, ridicule that which your own mother and the great bulk of the .'\merican public always considered as un­questionable. .. . So many of us, however, dignify our cowardice with the label of cautiousness and prudence. 
".^gain, I say, that is not the spirit of Notre Dame that I have known to vi\Tfy and energize so many young men who once had been undergraduates of this campus. The Notre Dame graduate stands out by his fearless attitude in the hour of con­flict . . . 
"Notre Dame has an imposing record of war ser\'ice. Help to swell the honor roll of its peace service." 
Congressman Kennedy 
Sincere, able, and convincing because he embodied the very unselfish theme he of­fered. Congressman Kennedy said (inpart): 
".. . The basic purpose of ever)' Catho­ from Page 3) 

lie college is to prepare young men and women for eternal residence in the City of God. But Catholic colleges likewise realize that they have a fundamental duty to pre­pare their students for life in the City of Man. 
"It is of your obligations to the City of Man that I would speak today. 
"It is of course axiomatic that the true function of the private umversit>- is to de\-clop leaders for a democratic society. Certainly every educated Catholic must recognize an obligation of the most serious sort to participate — to contribute. 
Intellectual and Moral Capacity Needed 
".. . Certainly, without leaders of deep intellectual and moral capacity the boun­tiful resources of our nation will be frit­tered away in frustrated attempts to solve conflicts- both within and without our borders. 
".. . Never before in our history has there been a greater need for men of in­tegrity and courage in public service. Never before in our history has there been a greater need for the people to take up will­ingly the responsibilit>- for free government. 
"The theme of today—the scarlet thread that runs throughout the thoughts and actions of people all over the world — is one of resignation of major problems into the all-absorbing hands of the great levi­athan— the State. This trend is not di­\-isible — we in the United States suffer from it, if less intensely. 
"It is, therefore, vital that we become concerned with maintaining the authority of the people, of the individual, over the State. 
"The assurance must be given that 'E\-ery man shall be protected in doing what he believes — against the influence of authority and majorities, of custom and opinion. 
".. . The ever expanding power of the federal government, the absorption of many of the functions that states and cities once considered to be the responsibilities of their own, must now be a source of concern to all those who believe as did the Irish pa­triot, Henry Grattan: 'Control over local affairs is the essence of libert>'.' 
"The failure to use with ngor the priv­ilege of the secret ballot reflects a general uninterest in the affairs of government, and could have serious consequences in times of crises. 
"The endless variety of our economic and political problems should serve as a inagnet in drawing trained citizens to the service of their community, state and nation. 
".. . It should be obvious that with the decisions of government becoming in­creasingly more important in our lives, with the issue of war and peace hanging in the balance — the sombre question in­deed of bur survival at stake—each man among you can afford, in some degree at least, to answer the call to service. 
".. . This is certainly the major chal­lenge that any graduate of any university this year must face." 
JoBuarr graduate* Ue down the steps of Sacred Heort Church. 384 received the Mam Building io the doss' last visit in degrees in Commencement Exerdses. 

The President Reports 
Frank Wallace Tells the Story of His Year in Office 
To the Members of the Alumni Association: 
This is the State of the Union report by the retiring President. I am asking Jim .Armstrong to publish it in the next issue of the ALUMNUS so that the voters will know what their officers have been doing in addition to looking important and taking bows. I address mj-self primarily to the constituency. 
Those guys you elected were full of ideas; and the yackety-yak at our formal meetings in January, June and October, was quite wonderful. We also instituted a chain correspondence whereby we worked things out between meetings. 
Nobody yacked more or took more bows than the Prez. I appeared several times at New York and South Bend; also tapped in at Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington, Pittsburgh, Detroit, Charleston, W. Va., Wheeling, Cleveland and Dallas. In addi­tion to club functions, there were many radio appearances and some TV shows. 
I represented the .'Vssociation at such odd places as the Heisman Dinner in New York when Leon Hart received his trophy; a Southern Methodist student pep rally; and, believe it or not, the Michigan pep rally the night before the Michigan— -Army game! 
The board team members were talented, aggressive and energetic. 
Father Cavanaugh was wonderful throughout He either attended our meet­ings or we called on him. He gave us the inside and low-do*vn but never the brush­oflf. Father Sweeney, and later Father Murphy, attended all of our sessions; and by intelligent and generous interpretation of University attitude, simplified much of our work. Department heads helped us work out problems in their fields. 
BUDGET . . . The first and toughest job. Discussed by everybody, worked out with Armstrong by our committee of "Freshmen"—Jones, Scoggins, Sherry and Beckman. Jones was the heavy-duty man of this backfield. As a result and for the first time, we have an anni^l operating budget and very generous, too—about $64,000 including the ALUMNUS maga­zine and the Bums Scholarships. 
' CONSTITUTION AND BY-LAWS . . . These were gone over and revised. Another monumental job done by voluminous cor­respondence and personal meetings among the committee of lawyers—^Ward, Jones, Scoggins, Hogan—^with considerable, help from Buckley and Beckman. Leo'Ward' took the heavy rap on this, '•\\ . 
PLACEMENT .. . A problem which, is growing more serious. We gave it-serious, discussion with Ed Quinn and appropri­ated money for a survey of how it is hand­led in other schools. This is primarily a University function since most of the work is to be done on campus; our discussion was designed to find ways in which alum­ni could help. Our interest may have accelerated the creation of pre\-iously-plan­ncd Department of Placement; but in so doing we may have double-crossed our­selves as Bill Dooley becomes its head and we lose his long-time valuable services. There will still be work for the field alum­ni, possibly more than ever before; but it will be more efficient activity. 
CLUBS: Bob Hellrung, ex-Veep, was asked to continue on clubs for this year sis a special advisor. He's done a fine job which need not be stressed here as his sug­gestions have already gone out to the 
Retiring President Frank Wallace 

clubs; but it was Bob's earnest salesman­ship which resulted in the decision to hold another Club President's Council on the campus in connection with the 1950 Re­unions. 
CLASSES: Retirin g Vice-President Louis Buckley did a great job on advanc­ing class activity. Lou has been one of our most conscientious and hardworking directors. In this field the board delayed the 1949 reunion one week after Com­mencement. It seemed to be a successful departure and will be followed in '50. 
•; ENROLLMENT . . . Father Louis ..^Thornton, registrar, kept us in constant '^touch on this. With the GI passing out 
of.;the picture, the time may soon be at hand when alumni will again be asked to "sell" Notre Dame to prospective students; but with dignity, discrimination and tact 
STUDENT —ALUMNI RELATIONS . . . Consideration of this subject was in­duced by the students themselves. The need is to bridge the gap; to make the transition simple. Plans have been made to begin this work on campus through as­sociation of board members with student class officers and campus state groups; to bring the students into alumni club activi­ties during vacation periods. Early this year I contributed an article on this sub­ject to the Scholastic. 
MOTION PICTURES AND TICKETS . . . We went into this with Herb Jones and Moose Krause, worked out methods to help with the service. 
NOMINATIONS FOR BOARD MEM­BERS . . . We spent more than the usual time working out means to make the an­nual nominations and elections more than a popularity contest The goal is to get directors who have been active in club and class work; and others who may not have been active but have special talent, pres­tige, energy and enthusiasm for the work. 
PRESTIGE COMMITTEE . . . This is still in its early stage of development We now have, through Ray Donovan, pub­licity director, a quite sturprising list of Notre Dame men in the allied fields of newspaper, radio, television, motion pic­tures, advertising and public relations. The next step vriU be to ask these men, and the club presidents, to ftimish the names of additional alumni in all these fields of thought communications; and the names of non-alumni who are friendly to Notre Dame. 
This, the major part of the job, is high-powered public relations work with which the average alumnus will not be much in­volved. It will be utilized by the Publicity Department, Alumni and Foundation offi­ces and field men. The first "test run" will be made for next Universal Notre Dame Night (Paul Mallon has been particularly helpful on this program which is down his specialized alley.) 
FOUNDATION .. . The Board has had very little to do with actual work of the Foundation which is rolling on its own; but it is our baby and the work is done by our men. Every improvement in Alumni work automatically improves the Founda­tion work. The Prestige Program should show its quickest results in the Foundation; 
MISCELLANEOUS . . . There were many other things along the line, inclviding the sentimental Four Horsemen Reunion, which was initiated by the Alumni Asso­ciation. 
The 1949 board has left a mark for the next board to shoot a t 
—Frank Wallace. 

The USSR: Containment or Catastrophe 
Experts Probe Soviet Aggression -- Background, Theory and Facts -- in Notre Dame Symposium 
Correspondents from the major newspa­
pers of the nation crowded the Notre 
Dame campus February 7 and 8. That 
was nothing unusual: Notre Dame has 
long been a major source of news. What 
\vzs new was the source of the news — a 
scholarly symposiimi on Soviet Russia. 
The world's number one problem, Soviet 
Russia, -was the subject of a s>Tnposium 
sponsored by the University's Committee 
on International Relations. The nation's 
outstanding experts on Russia convened 
on the campus to present a comprehensive 
series of lectures designed to cover the 
entire scope of the problem. Sessions were 
held in the Law Auditorium. Acting as 
chairman for the symposium was Rev. John 
J. Ca\'anaugh, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame. 
"The very existence of Soviet Russia threatens the entire world with a catas­trophe," the first speaker, Doctor Walde­mar Gurian, told the audience. Dr. Gu­rian, Russian-bom chairman of the Com­mittee on International Relations, is the author of numerous scholarly articles and books on the Russian problem. 
"Any weakening of vigilance and of the endeavors to build up and maintain su­perior power, in comparison with that of Soviet Russia, must have fatal conse­quences," Dr. Gurian said. These conse­quences, he said, may mean either enslave­ment under totalitarian rule or a new open world war. 
Wealuiess Is Greatest Danger 
"The decisive danger of Soviet Russia is not constituted by the USSR itself, but by shortcomings and weaknesses of her ad­versaries," Doctor Gurian said. "From the beginning the Soviet regime counted not only upon division among its opponents, but also upon their greed and short­sightedness— weaknesses which would pre­vent them from recognizing the Soviet regime as the bearer of a political religion." 
"Soviet expansionism and world revolu­tion have merged together," Dr. Gurian said. "The Soviet leaders believe the world situation permits and favors attempts to carry out expansionist policies, whereas from 1922 they concentrated first upon strengthening and perfecting their internal totalitarian system. 
"Up to now they have tried to avoid open war, though they do try to keep the of the Soviet regime from the beginning. The world revolution appears today as a feature of Soviet expansionism. The Soviet regime is too powerful today to regard itself modestly as a kind of first signal for world revolutionary developments. It regards itself today as the leader of pro­gressive mankind." 
Second speaker in the symposium was Dr. Michael Karpovich, of Harvard Uni­versity, who described the background of thought control in Russia. 
"Fundamentally, an all-embracing sys­tem of thought control is inherent in the very nature of a totalitarian state," he said. "It cannot recognize the autonomy of culture; neither can it acknowledge the existence of politically neutral spheres of human activity. Everything must be sub­ordinated to the political aims of the regime. 
"Thus the recent purge in the field of genetics, which came as a surprise to many outside obscr\'ers, is but a logical outcome of the fundamental premises on which Soviet totalitarianism is based. 
"The more vulnerable fields of intellec­tual activity, such as social sciences and philosophy, for instance, were affected from the outset," Dr. Karpovich said, "while others could enjoy a kind of limited and precarious freedom until the machinerv­of control became finally established and perfected. Today the process seems to have reached its completion." 
Dr. Karpovich came to the United States in 1917 with the provisional Rus­sian delegation and for some time was acting first secretary of the Russian em­bassy in Washington. 
Outlines Soviet Penetration 
The third speaker of the symposium was Dr. Istvan D. Kertesz, a former diplo­mat for Sowet-satellite Hungary, now teaching at Yale Uni\'ersity, He outlined the methods of Soviet penetration in East-em Europe. 
world in crisis and insecurity and to ex­ploit any possibility for ad^-ancement," he Speakers at Notre Dome's two-day symposium en Soviet Bnssia were (standing) Drs. continued. "These changes and various Noam Jasny and Stephen Kertesz. BeT. Francis Droniilc Drs. Wddemor Guiian and policies correspond to the basic features Vladimir Petrov; ond (seated) Drs. Nicholas nmash*8. HGchoel Karpovich. Philip Mosely. 
Volume ?8. No. 1, January-February, 1950 
"The Soviet pattern in Eastern Europe 
has been, first, isolation from the West, 
then political and economic integration 
towards Moscow, and at the same time, 
elimination of all other tendencies toward 
integration." 
Freedom of movement is non-existent 
behind the Iron Curtain, he said. "Escapes 
were made very difficult by drastic meth­
ods in eastern European states." 
Dr. Philip Mosely, staff specialist in 
Columbia University's Russian Institute 
and a presidential advisor at many Big 
Three conferences, told of the way in 
which Russia has capitalized on national 
conflicts in eastern Europe. 
Dr. Mosely ridiculed the Soviet claim 
that Communism is the only system which 
eliminates national conflicts. He pointed 
out that the Soviet government itself has 
liquidated several of its nationality groups 
and destroyed their political existence. 
Armaments Keep Climbing 
Fifth sp>eaker on the symposium was 
Dr. Naum Jasny, now of Stanford Univer­
sity but once a statistician for the Soviet 
government. Dr. Jasny told the group that 
the Soviet government is expending more 
than 60 per cent of its income on state 
investment and armed forces compared to 
only 42 per cent a little more than 10 
years ago. 
Dr. Jasny said that the concentration of financial resources in the hands of the Soviet state is accelerated by a sales tax on consumer goods amounting to more than 50 per cent of retail prices. 
"The taxes arc so effective in keeping down private consumption and concentrat­ing financial resources in the hands of the state that, in addition to their main task of providing the large means for new in­vestment and the armed forces, they permit lavish expenditures on- education and health services," he said. 
"Although the industrial output of the USSR has expanded much less than offi­cially claimed," he said, "the aim of in­dustrialization as such may be believed to have been reached. 
"The Five-Year plans were embarked upon to transform the USSR from a pre­dominately agricultural into an industrial country with terrific speed," he told the Notre Dame audience. "As time passed, the elevating of the USSR to a first-rate military power, inferior to nobody, has become an even more important aim." 
Dr. Vladimir Petrov, who spoke on Soviet terrorism, is a man who knows his subject first-hand. He was six years a pris­oner of the Soviet government in Siberia. 
An internal revolution could never break the hold of the Soviet government, he said. "Russia's citizens do not dare fight against the Soviet system, despite the fact that it is an object of hatred by the entire jjopu­lation. The Soviet regime bases its rule entirely on fear .. . and the well or­ganized minority will remain in power until some outside force can shake it." 
Anytime, For Anything Dr. Petrov, who now teaches at Yale, said that no one in the Soviet Union is free from the fear of the ever present 
secret police. Furthermore, he said, "the 
secret police now has a constitutional right 
to jail anyone without trial for a term not 
exceeding five years solely on mere sus­
picion of anti-Soviet activity." 
Dr. Petrov sees no indication tliat this 
torture tactic will in any way change. 
"Everything can be collectivized in a 
ON ROCKEFCLLEB GBANT 

The Bockefeller Foundation, through a giant oi $69,000 to the UniTcrsit? oi Notre Dame for study oi international relations, partially iinanced the symposium on SoTiet Russia. In accordance with the terms set by the Bockeieller Foun­dation, the Committee on Interna­tional Relations has been organ­ized, here, to direct research in the interrelations oi religion, democracy and international order. It will also devote particular attention to the rise of political religions in the twentieth century. 
totalitarian state except the minds of people. As long as this individualism exists, there will always be differences in opinion, which in a totalitarian state means the necessity of terrorism to suppress the opi­position." 
"Freedom of religion in Soviet Russia is still just a hollow myth," Dr. Nicholas Timasheff, an exiled Russian sociologist, told the audience. Dr. Timasheff, now a member of the faculty at Fordham Univer­sity, discounted the importance of recent Soviet concessions to the Russian Orthodox Church. The government is still basically anti-religious, he explained, but for reasons of expediency it now is waging war against religion by means of patient enlighten­ment of the people on the basis of natural and social sciences. 
"It is obvious that a compromise has been reached behveen the Communist gov­ernment—which remains atheist—and the Russian Orthodox Church, which has changed nothing of its dogma and rites, but which is compelled to utter statements in line with the government's foreign policy. 
"The government chooses not to inter­fere too much with religion, though legally it could do so. The situation is precarious. Both parties hate the compromise, but do not see any way to modify it." 
Among other denominations in Russia, the Armenian Church and the Baptists have gained advantages similar to those of the Orthodox church. Dr. Timasheff said. The other Protestant sects and the Buddhists are less privileged, he explained, and since 1949 the Jews and Mohamme­dans have come under new attacks from the state. 
"At the very bottom one finds the Catholics," he said. "They are granted no right of public worship in the USSR exv cept in Lithuania, although even there the episcopate has been driven underground." 
Final speaker on the symposium was Father Francis Dvoinik< of Harvard Uni­versity. He went one step farther in at­tempting to demonstrate the historical basis for Church-State struggles within the Iron Curtain countries. 
He traced the center of difficulty to the origin of the King-Priest theory, which granted the ruling monarch an important share in the administration of the Church. "In liquidating the last remains of the Uniate Church .. . the Soviet regime simply followed in the steps of the Tsars." 
Father Dvomik said it was dear that the compromise in Czechoslovakia was fore­doomed to failure. 
"It was clear to any objective observer and student of Communist methods, that the Vatican's hopes were vain, and that the Communist regime would in due course be established in Czechoslovakia as it was in other countries under the Soviet influ­ence. It was foolish to expect jxHitive results for the Church from collalK>ration with the Communist party and to sur­render to them—in the hope of some con­cessions—the most important political power in the state government" 
But some hope for the survival of re­ligion under the Communist persecution was advanced by Father Dvomik, who praised the living faith of the simple people. In conclusion, he urged a prayer to "help the simple faithful beyond the Iron Curtain to bear their crosses patient­ly, and to inspire their reh'gious leaders to find the right way in a most difficult situation." 
Ward Elected 
(Continued from Page 4) 

deans of the imdergraduate colleges, and faculty and administration heads of de­partments in which alumni relations are important factors, were guests. At this dinner meeting retiring President Frank Wallace outlined his hope for the develop­ment of an alumni program which vt^ carry the story of Notre Dame prestige, in all its phases, throughout the world, through the agency of the alumni who en­joy 'ind exemplify it. 
A long session of the board was devoted to the discussion of methods for stimulat­ing study, through individual alumni and local clubs, of the problems of our society, with the purpose of applying those Chris­tian principles for which the moral, re­sponsible training of Notre Dame stands. 
The board opinion seemed to indicate the propriety of such study as an alumni activity, at the same time allowing for those differences of opinion in application which exist among Notre Dame scholars, and men of different economic, political, social, and even racial and religious back­grounds— imtil such a time as an issue resolves itself into a clear-cut principle 
•from which there can be no moral de­viation. 
With only one absentee (the newly elected president caught by the California court schedule), the session was most con­structive for all alumni activity. The board meets again in conjunction with the class reimions and the Club Presidents Council, June 8, 9, 10 and 11. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
A new magazine joined the list of Notre Dame student publications last semester with the first two issues of the "Notre Dame Technical Re\new." The magazine, to be a quarterly, is published by students in engineering, science, and architecture and is designed to present interesting and important material relating to their fields of study. William J. Ruoff, an architecture major of St. Ijouis, is editor. Dean Karl Schoenherr, of the College of Engineering, is faculty ad\'iser for the publication. 

Speaking on a coast-to-coast hookup of the Mutual Broadcasting System last month, Ocan Clarence Afanion, of the College of Law, pointed to "mercy killing" as "suicide" and declared that self-destruc­tion is the "most horrible of all crimes against God and man because .. . it in­vades the prerogative of the Almighty by deliberately rushing into the Di\-ine Pres­ence before we are called there." 
Dean Manion made the statement in reply to the declaration of Dr. Charles F. Potter, president of the Euthanasia Society, that "euthanasia is not murder." The dean spoke on Mutual's "Newsweek Re­buttal" program. 
"Our American Forefathers understood," 

he said, "that the basic protection aga'nst 
tyranny is the natural law principle that 
our life and liberty are neither to be given 
away nor taken by others n-ithout'our fault 
or against our will. If we justifiably kill 
a person merely because he wishes to die, 
we may likewise kill him against his will." 
Two backs from the 1949 Irish football team, cadets in the Air ROTC unit at Notre Dame, have been a%vardcd Chicago Tribune medals for excellence in military-achievement, scholastic attainment and character. The two arc William K. White­side, jr., of Philadelphia, and John E. Petitbon, of New Orleans. Presentation of the medals was made by Lt. Col. Leonard 
W. Palmer, U.S-.'V.F., commandant of the unit. 
Forty members of the Glee Club made a concert tour of the Southwest in the break between Sfimcstcrs. The tour, cov­ering 2500 miles, featured concerts in seven major cities in Kansas, Texas, Mis­sissippi, and Missouri. Roy O'Neill, Aurora, 111., Bob Ruetz, South Bend, and Jim Etling, pianist, Calumet City, 111., were soloists. The club was directed by Professor Daniel H. Pedtke. 
Hev. «!«»^"f H='*»»9^„C;^C- execnfire 
1U 

UNIVERSITY 
TODAY 
The Rev. Asztrik L. Gabriel, O.Praem., professor in the Mediaeval Institute, has been elected to the Historical committee of the Canons of Premontre and to the editorial board of the periodical "Analecta Praemonstratensia." 
Father Gabriel is one of only t^o repre­sentatives from the United States on the committee, which conducts research into the history and canonical procedure of the 12th and 13th centuries. 

The only negro Catholic bishop in the world, the Most Rev. Joseph Kiwanuka, W.F., J.C.D., bishop of Masaka Uganda, East Africa, visited the campus last month. Bishop Kiwanuka declared that the people of Africa must be converted to the Catho­lic Church if Communist organizations are to be prevented from seizing controL He is seeking funds to build a native sem­inary to relieve an acute shortage of priests in his diocese. 
Sophomores in Notre Danic"s NROTC are the nation's best, according to the re­sults of a comprehensive test aimounccd by official tabulators. The examinations, based on the trainees' study of naval sci­ence, were administered last year to 3712 fiist-year students i n the national program. Notre Dame, with a mean score of 117.40, 
was more than 18 points above the na­tional average. 
President Truman received a bronze plaque portrait of himself last December from representatives of three displaced per­son welfare organizations. The plaque, executed by Eugene Kormcndi, artist in residence at Notre Dame, was a token of thanks for aid extended to displaced per­sons who have entered the United States. 
A full-color likeness of Christ, fashioned entirely from bits of cancelled French post­age stamps, has been presented to ND's .Wightman Memorial Art Gallery. The unusual likeness was sent to this coimtr}­by Abbe Pierre Desvois, pastor of a little parish in Normandy, as part of France's "Merci Train" gifts to the American 
people. 
Plans are being made to present His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, with a record of hundreds of spirittial bouquets offered for his intention by students at Notre Dame. Presentation to the Holy Father will be made next summer in a Holy Year Pilgrimage of students to Rome. 
 Tice.pre.ident of the tIniT.r«ify, eongrata­
lates Au HOTC Cadet Bdl Whiteride for winning a Chicago 'Tribune" medal for miU­tary exceUency. Wcrtchmg are lohn Petflbon. the other winner, and Ll. CoL Leonard W. Palmer, commandant of the Notre Dame unit. 
Volume 28, No. 1, January-February, 19S0 
An article published in "Ebony" maga­zine last month declared that Negroes are becoming part of the brotherhood of Notre Dame students symbolized by the "spirit of Notre Dame." In the last five years eleven Negroes have entered the Univer­sity. Two have been graduated, seven still attend, and two others have left — one to enter a seminary and another to enter the ser\'ice. 
Recent graduates of the College of Com­merce are expected by their employers to become key men in their industries, ac­cording to a survey conducted by the college. A report on the survey, which asked employers of recent grads to evalu­ate their performances and attitudes, was presented to the fall meeting of the Ad­visory Council for the College of Com­merce. 
The sur*-ey found that more Notre Dame men are rated on the average of 
92.92 per cent efficiency than at any other rate. Employers, asked to rate commerce students on their sense of responsibility, loyalty, business imagination, aptitude, or­ganizational ability, ambition, and initi­ative, reported that they were "well pleased" and "well satisfied" with their ND employes. None reported dissatisfaction. 
Cardinals Spellman and Dougherty have endorsed "The Road to Damascus," edited by the Rev. John A. O'Brien, of the University's Department of Religion, as a means of encouraging the crusade for con­verts which the Church is launching throughout the country. The volume, fea­turing the stories of 15 outstanding con­verts, has already broken all records for books of this type. It is one of the ten best sellers in Catholic book stores. 
.An article by Dr. Winthrop S. Hudson in a December issue of of "The Christian Century" called attention to Father O'Brien's book, asserting that its narratives disclose important factors which Protest­ants might well emulate in striving for converts. The factors were the alertness of the Catholic clergy in offering guidance, the good example of Catholic lay people, and the influence of Catholic publications in leading churchlcss people to study the Faith. 
Father O'Brien believes that a crusade to win the 80,000,000 churchless people of our country for God is the most urgent task facing the priests and people of the Catholic Church in America today. He made the statement in an address broad­cast in December from the Church of Gesu in Milwaukee at the reception of 46 con­verts into the Church. 
Dr. Harold M. Pritchard wants some­body to invent a 36-hour day. The 40­year-old physician, already established in medical practice in Niles, Mich., enrolled last fall in the College of Law, but he's detennined not to let his new endeavor interfere with his career as a doctor. As a result he's finding it a tough grind to handle both his law assigiunents and the ills of people around Niles. 
Dr. Pritchard enrolled in the law school because he believes law and medicine can be combined to good effect. The im­portance of medical testimony is often overlooked in courts because of misunder­standing, the doctor points out. In such cases doctors rarely imderstand legal terms and procedures, and lawyers often know little about complicated medical terms. He is certain that training in both fielils would be invaluable. Barring imforeseen difficulties. Dr. Pritchard is confident he'll survive the grind and win his d^ree. 
Dr. CHABIES PBICE 

Dr. Charles C, Price, head of the Uni­versity's Department of Chemistry, an­nounced last month that he is a candidate for the Democratic nomination for U. S. senator from Indiana. In announcing his candidacy Dr. Price said he hoped "I can at least help inspire for America to match our domestic programs a new, positive, progressive and practical program for the conduct of our international affairs in full accord with our moral standards and po­litical principles." 
The South Bend Junior Chamber of Commerce named Dr. Price outstanding young man of the year for 1948, and the Indiana Junior Chamber cited him for important research in the Rh blood factor at Notre Dame. 
Publication of a previously unknown ancient Bible History, vitally important to the history of Christian origins and of early Jewish thought, has been annoimced by the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School and editor of Notre Dame's "Publications in Mediaeval Studies." 
The new history, published by Professor Guido Kisch of New York City, is a Jewish Bible History, adorned with nu­merous othenvisc imknown legends written shortly after the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 A.D. The publication throws con­siderable light on some of the New Testa­ment writings and on Jewish religious thought of the period. 
Congressman Thurman C. Crook, of South Bend, has put Notre Dame on a list of schools eligible to receive federal funds for aviation wind-tunnel research. Crook said he understood the University's aero­nautical engineering Department, headed by Professor F. N. Brown, had already spent $200,000 on wind-tunnel research and was perhaps better equipped than most universities to carry it on. 
Two hundred fifty-five students, more than half the graduate enrollment, cur­rently are on the roster of appointments to the University's Graduate School, ac­cording to an announcement by Father Moore. Of the appointments 131 are teaching fellowships. Father Moore said. Forty-two are appointments to research on government scientific programs at Notre Dame. 
Dr. Joseph Pieper, widely recognized German philosopher and sociologist, will serve as a visiting professor during the spring semester. Dr. Pieper has been brought to Notre Dame by the Committee on International Relations. 
The noted educator last year served as professor of philosophy at the University of Munster, Westfalen, Germany, and at the Pedagogical Institute of Essen, Ger­many. He is the author of many works in ethics, metaphysics, and sociology. Dr. Pieper b regarded as one of Europe's out­standing representatives of Thomistic philosophy. 
Defense plans based on using the B-36 for strategic bombing mean that the United States will not be able to carry out its Atlantic Pact committments, ac­cording to Dr. Bernard Brodie, former consultant to the State Department on atomic bomb problems, who spoke last fall on the campus. Our partners in the At­lantic Pact, Brodie explained, expect to be defended against invasion, not rescued from occupation. 
Brodie spoke under the auspices of the University's new Committee on Interna­tional Relations. 
.Another speaker brought to the campiu last fall by the committee was Professor 
J. K. Galbraith of Harvard University. Professor Galbraith warned that there is little hope that Europe will be able to support a tolerable standard of living when the Marshall Plan runs out in 1952. He said that more time and real economic union are essential for full recovery in 
Europe. 
The second series of the Department of Religion's weekly Institute of Christian Marriage began this month. The Institute, founded last fall, sponsors weekly discus­sions of \-arious aspects of true Christian marriage presented by well-known alumni and faculty members. The discussions are open to all seniors in their last se­mester. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ATHLETICS • • 
Baskefball 
Coach Ed Krause, after a slow start, has molded the 1949-50 Notre Dame bas­ketball team into one of the better teams of the nation. 
The Irish, predominated by sophomore material, edged past Creighton University-, 57-50, in the season opener, but then proceeded to drop four games in succes­sion to tough Big Ten opposition. The Kxausemen, however, were not humiliated in any of the four losses, the largest mar­gin being ten points. 
After the Creighton game, the Irish dropped a 56-48 decision to title-contender Wisconsin, and then absorbed a 66-56 de­feat at the hands of a red hot North­western quintet. Iowa was on the long end of a 64-62 score, before Notre Dame fell to powerfiJ Indiana, 79-69, in the opener of the Hoosier Classic in In­dianapolis. 
In the finale of the Hoosier Classic, however, the Notre Dame netters pasted Purdue, 59-41, to launch a \-ictor\- string that was to find them winning eleven of their next fourteen games. 
Included in the string were wins over Butler, 54-33; Michigan State, 76-65: De-Paul, 58-53; John Carroll, 73-66; Michigan State, 71-65: Kentuck\-, 64-51; Northwest-em, 64-37; Marquette, 79-61, and Loyola twice, 56-41 and 67-60. The three defeats during this fourteen-game span came at the hands of Canisius, 53-50; BuUcr, 63-57, and St. Louis, 55-45. 
Fh-e games against DePaul, St Louis, Na\-y, New York University and Mar­quette remain on the tough 24-game sched­iJe faced by Coach Krause's quintet at this writing. 
-At the outset of the campaign. Coach Krause had only three lettermen — Capt. Ke\'in O'Shea, John Foley and Mart\­O'Connor—around whom to build his 1949-50 Irish. For the balance of his squad, he had to depend upon sophomores and boys who had never played collegiate basketball. 
Out of the talent from last year's Irish freshman team. Coach Krause came up with three sophs who have been regular performers and who have come around fast as the season progressed. The re­mainder of the starting lineup has con­sisted of O'Shea and jimior Dan Bagley, who didn't play \"arsit>' ball last season. 
Sophomore Leroy Leslie, who stands 6'2" and who has compiled 212 points up to now, consistently has held down one of the forward berths, while 6'3" John Neu­mayr, another soph, has been at the other 
By RAYMOND DONOVAN, '42 

forward post most of the season. Bagley has been a tower of strength at the center spot, while another sophomore, Don Stias­ser, standing an even six feet, has teamed with O'Shea at the guards. Veteran John Foley, who was slow getting started at the season's outset, has been used primarily as the No. 1 reserve of the club. 
O'Shea, who is having what may be his greatest year in college ball, threatens to become the only Irish eager in history to hold three scoring records consecutively by the end of his final season of play. Ke\-in already has broken the three-year record of 780 points set by Johnny Moir. He also will be one of the few players in history to compete for four seasons, and his mark of more than 1,000 points in his collegiate career probably will stand for some time to come. And finally, O'Shea' needs only to maintain his 14-point-per­game average for the final five games to crack Leo Klier's mark of 355 points in a single season. 
A human pyramid of ND basketliall play­ers leaps high to snare a tip-in agaiiist Kentucky in the Field House. Sgh man is (7) Kevin O'Shea. Behind him are John Foley (10) and lack Neumayr (16). The mon Jutting up in the middle is Em­tucky's gigantic (7*1") center. Bill Sfrirey. The Irish won. 64-51. 
Track 
Questionable strength in the middle dis­tances and distances holds the answer to a successful season by Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Hand/s 1950 Notre Dame track and field squad. 
The Irish cindermen were hard-hit by graduation in these events and keenly feel the loss of such performers as Bill Lonard in the mile and diminutive Jim Murphy in the two-mile. 
Jim Kittell is the No. 1 replacement for Leonard in the mile run, and on last year's performances, Kittell could develop into a capable replacement. Behind Kit­tell in the mile, however, the Irish must depend upon sophomore Conrad Tetrault, who because of lack of experience may not give the Irish the one-two combination comparable to last year's Leonard-Kittcll duo. In the two-mile event. Murphy is re­placed by Benny .\lmaguer, who finished second in the season opener against Mis­souri, which was won by the Irish. 
Coach Handy has plenty of strength in the hurdles with Bill Fleming and Leo McKillip. Fleming, who won the Sugar Bowl hurdles late in December, tied the world record of 06.8 seconds for the 60­yard lows in the Missouri meet 
Fleming, besides competing both in the high and low hiurdle events, is the team's leading high jumper and also may see some service as a dash man. Coach Handy is depending upon him for triple victories in many of the Notre Dame meets this year. 
In field events, the Irish are depending heavily on the two Helwig brothers, John and Joe, and footballer Bob TonefF. John Helwig consistently tosses the iron oval beyond the 50-foot mark. John Worthing­ton is the ace broad jumper of the club, while senior Jim Miller once again will handle the pole vaulting duties. 
Captain Bob Smith is the chief Irish hope in the 60-yard dash, while Val Mus­cat© is most promising in the 440-yard dash and Jerry Johnson is the 880 special­ty. The mile relay team fielded by Coach Handy in the season opener consisted of Bob Smith, Bob • Boyne, Jim Bollas and Val Muscato. 
Fencing 
Coach Herb Melton has high hopes this year for his Notre Dame fencing team to go through its tough nine-game schedule undefeated. 
Coach Melton, whose Irish fencers were defeated last year only by the University 
Volume 28, No. 1, January-February, 19S0 
of Detroit, has guided his team to four successive victories at the beginning of the season. As the season approaches the half-way mark, the Notre Dame swords­men hold victories over Case Institute, 19-8. Michigan State, 20-7, University of Chicago, 21%-6%, and Illinois Tech, 23-4. Matches remaining on the schedule include Illinois, Northwestern, Detroit, Cincinnati, and Louisville and Kentucky in a tri­angular meet 
Leading the Notre Dame fencers this season is Capt Bob Schlosser, a sabre ex­pert, who has been defeated in only one match out of eleven in early season play. Ralph Dixon is holding down the No. 1 epcc job, while the foil men consist of Nick Scalera and Don Paris!. 
FoofbofI 
1949 RESULTS 

Notre Dame, 49; Indiana, 6 
Notre Dame, 25; Washington, 7 
Notre Dame, 35, Purdue, 12 
Notre Dame, 46 Tulane, 7 
Notre Dame, 40; Navy, 0 
Notre Dame, 34; Michigan State, 21 
Notre Dame, 42; North Carolina, 6 
Notre Dame, 28; Iowa, 7 
Notre Dame, 32: Southern California, 0 
Notre Dame, 27; Southern Methodist, 20 
Coach Frank Leahy, after admitting that the 1949 national championship Notre Dame football team was "the best team I have ever coached," starts to work in mid-March to open the defense of Notre Dame's national title. 
Coach Leahy and his staff, whose Irish received the J. Hugh O'Donnell Memorial Trophy symbolic of the national champion­ship at the annual S t Joseph Valley Club testimonial dinner in December, face the task of rebuilding the Notre Dame eleven for the 1950 season. No less than 23 monogram winners, including ten of the first eleven 1949 regulars, will be lost by graduation. 
Included among these are ends Bill Wightkin, Leon Hart, Ray Espenan, Doug Waybright and Jack Connor; tackles Jim Martin, Ralph McGehee, Gus Cifelli, Ed Hudak and Al Zmijewski; guards Frank Johnson, Bob Lally, Steve Oracko, and Jim Dailer; center Walt Grothaus; quar­terbacks Gerry Begley and George Dick­son; left halfbacks Frank Spaniel and Ernie Zaiejski; right halfbacks Larry Coutre and Mike Swistowicz, and full­back Emil Sitko. 
Forming the nucleus for rebuilding the 1950 Irish eleven will be such capable performers as ends Jim Mutscheller and Bill Flynn; tackle Bob TonefF; guards Paul Bums and Fred Wallner; centers Capt Gerry Groom, Jim Hambi, Byron Boji and Jim Bartlett; quarterbacks Bob Williams and John Mazur; right halfback Billy Barrett; left halfback John Petitbon, and fullback Del Gander. 
After six weeks of spring practice, scheduled to begin on or about S t Fait­rick's Day, the prospective Irish vanity for 1950 will face a powerful Old Timer squad, composed of the graduating play­ers, in the traditional Old Timers Game. 
All-American Honors 

Coach Frank Leahy and six members of the 1949 Notre Dame football team were honored with various awards at the conclusion of the season. These include: 
COACH LEAHY—Coach of the Year, Washington Touchdown Club; Coach of the Year, Detroit Times; Man of the Year, Football Writers Association. 
LEON HART—All-American on teams selected by Associated Press, United Press, International News Service, NEA, Chicago Tribune, Collier's Magazine, Look Maga­zine, New York Daily News, All-American Football Board, Paramount News. 
He received: Heisman Trophy, Max­well Trophy, Knute Rocknc Trophy, Player of the Year troidiy from the Cleye-i; land Touchdown Club, the Detnrit Timet, United Press and Sport Magazine; Male Athlete of the Year award from Astodated Press. 
EMIL Si'i'KO—All-Americao on teams selected by AP, UP, Sporting News, NEA, Chicago Tribune, Collier's, Look, New York Daily News, All-American Football Board, INS, Paramount News. Received the Walter Camp Menx>rial Trophy as Back of the Year from the Washington Touchdown Club. 
BOB WILLIAMS — AU-American on teams selected by AU-American . Board, UP, Sporting News, Look Magazine, New York Daily News. Selected as Back of the Year by UP. 
JIM MARTIN—^All-American on teams selected by AP, INS, NEA. 
LARRY COUTRE — All-American on team selected by Hearst News <^ the Day. 
BOB L.'UXY—Honorable mention AU-American on Chicago Tribune team. 
Coach Fronk Leahy poses with the font Iriah AU-JlaericoDS ior IS49L Stai^ag ol lower left and reading clockwise, they're FUlbade tuai Sittn. Qnoilerbadc Bob WOBaBS. Leahy. Tadde Em Hartin and Eiod Leea Hart 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 
j^ j^

ALUMNI CLUBS ^ 
Boston 
Tlic North Carolina gamc^ even though in Xcw 
York, was the big fall attraction in Boston. The 
week before thai s^^*^ a group gathered in the 
Boston College Alumni rooms to listen to the 
Michigan State broadcast and witnessed the draw­
ing for the Boston Club Scliolarship fund. John J. 
(Buck) Hanlcj- and Mrs. Frank Gulndon were the 
lucky winners. 
A large delegation from th« Boston area made the (Lxcursion to Yankee Stadium. We did not see all of them but we know that President Moran was licjping Mayor-elect Hynes give a reception at the Waldorf-Astoria. Later the Morans held forth in one of those luxurious suites in the Waldorf Towers that the rest of us only see in the movies. Also at the Waldorf were the Hugh and Jim Blunts' and the DufTcj-s. American Airlines John Vaughan al­most missed the first quarter—delayed by either the New York subway s>-stem or was it the pretty air­lines hostess he had with him. Dick Herlihy was up at the Park Sheraton. 
We had a vcr\' interesting Innovation here in Bos-Ion when the Pilgrim Theater televised three of the Noire Dame games right onto the theater screen. It was ver%* good and we found it added interest to sit there with Chct Grant's "Under the Hat" in hand. From the cliecrs during the play there must have been a good number of subway alumni there. In fact we understand that the theater had to turn five hundred people airay for ilic Southern Califor­nia game. 
The Boston Club obser\-ed the annual Notre Dame Communion Breakfast, Sunday, Dec. II. Hugh Blunt made arrangements at St. John's in Cam­bridge and the breakfast followed at the Hotel Commander. We learned why Father George Bcna­glia heads the Seminary at North Easton. because with about three minutes notice he made a splen­did talk on "Science and Religion." Father Dono­\*an gave an Interesting report on his trip out to 
Notre Dame, which Included the Southern Califor­
nia game. 
We missed few of our regulars. Dick Herlihy 
couldn't get away from the dair>' but sent over 
enough milk for cacli one of us. Jim Dooley is up 
and around again but couldn't make the trip. Dan 
Quinlan Is still at the Soldiers Hospital in Chelsea. 
The student campus club held Its Christmas dance De c 27 at the Copley Plaza. Secretary Duffey acted as the official representative of the alumni club. 
President John V. Moran lias just been appointed city purcliasing agent in the new Hynes administra­tion for the Ciiv of Boston. 
Buffalo 
The people of BulTalo were treated to a bit of 
the real Noire Dame spirit the night before the Buffalo Bills-Los Angeles Don game last fall. Hie Buffalo Club sponsored a pep rally In Lafayette Square to honor Clem Crowe, who was then head coach of the Bills. Bemie Bird was master of cere­monies. Co-chairmen for the rally were George Fer-rick and Charlie Hanna. A wire of congratulations from Frank Leahy was read—and the Bills won the game. 
Buffalo alumni wives, who sponsored a vcr>- suc­
cessful square dance last summer, have slated a 
full schedule of winter activities. 
The club gathered last fall to see all the home 
games \ia television. 
—Jack Shine 
Capital District 
Capital District officers elected at the club's No­vember meeting are Andrew M. Pickney, ex-41, 14 Circle Lane, president; Dr. Bernard A. Duffy, ex-30, 336 New Scotland Ave., vice-president; and Jaha S. 
Herricky '36, 421 Hudson Ave., 5ecretar>*-treasurer. 
All the addresses arc in Albany. 
Plans were completed at the same meeting for 
the club trip to the North Carolina game—Dr. 
Duffy headed the excursion. 
Central Illinois 
Observance of Universal Notre Dame Communion 
Sunday by the Central Illinois Club was held in 
the Cathedral in Springfield. Ed and Tom Afaboney 
and Bill Fry made arrangements for the obser\'ance. 
The N.D. Football Highlights of 1949 were shown 
at the club's Januar>- meeting. 
Central Illinois Club officers for 1949-50 are Sic­
phen Graliker, Decatur, president; Lando HoH-ard, 
Springfield, vice-president; John Lynaugh, Spring­
field, secretarj*; and Thomas Vicars, Springfield, 
treasurer. 
Central New York 
Approximately 60 club members and their fami­lies made the pilgrimage to New York City to at­tend the Notre Dame-North Carolina game. Opi­nion Was unanimous that it was a grand time and an annual New York game should be a must. \Vith headquarters in the Commodore, the Syracuse con­tingent was fortunate in having a ring-side table for the rally. Dan Kelley, Jack McAuliffe, Leo Kellcy, Father Jack Harrison and Father Frank Harrison were among the locals seen at the rally. 
The club gathered at the University Club for lunch and a television broadcast of the Notre Dame-Southern California game. Although the crowd was small the spirit was overwhelming and a grand time was had by all. Dr. James Shcehy led the cheering section during most of the afternoon. 
Jack O'Neil, ex-42, is a proud papa. Their first— John Patrick. Admissions office—please forward ap­plication for class of 1970. 

"^l ?°"^ " '^i'^c. ^« "^l"' the Idds when it held its Connnunion Sunday breoUost at Loyola CoUege. AboTe U a shot of the ranks of future ND and SL Marys grads and their parente present for the occasion. Th. Mott Beverend Lawrence I. Shehaa. bishop of Baltimore spoke at the breakfast 
Volume 28, No. I, January-February, 1950 
The Hotel Bond in Hartiord was the scene of the Connecticut Valley Club's UniTersal Notre Dame Communion Sunday breakfast In the center, seated is President Bill Reid. Right of him is the Rev. Philip F. Coholan; left is Thomas J. Quirk, headmaster of Hart­ford Public High and principal speaker at the breakfast. 
John H. Tcrr>-, club secretary--treasurer, announc­ed his engagement at a cocktail party on Dec. 18, to C. Jean PlieJan, Syracuse University grad. Dan Kelley, Jack McAuItfTe, and Bob McAulifTe were among those on liand for the announcement. Terr>' was also re-elected to the Onodaga County Board of Supcnisors at tlic last election. 
John J. Ross, '41, was married recently. He is employed by the Veterans Administration. 
The Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University was guest of honor at a reception held by the Central New York Club at the Bellevue Country Club in Syracuse, Jan. 
15. Father Hesburgh, a native Syracusan, visited his home town after attending a meeting of the Catho­lic Collegiate Athletic Association in New Yori^ City. Arrangements for the reception, which was attended by about 75 alimini and friends, were made by a committee under the direction of Leo 
D. Kellcy. 
Chicago 
John W. Lacsy is new president of the Chicago Club, succeeding John Buckley. Lacey's address is The Forbes Lithograph Mfg. Co., 700 Wrigley Bldg., Chicago. The club*s new secretary is Justin 
E. Mackicwicz, Jr., 4192 Archer Ave., Chicago 32. 
"Extension" magazine's All-Cathoh'c AII-Amcrican team was feted by the Chicago CUib Jan. 16. (Sec cut.) The team, which included Irish gridders Bob Williams, Leon Hart, Emil Sitko, and Jim Martin, received citations from the Rt. Rev. Joseph B. Lux, managing director of the magazine. Art Conrad was banquet chairman. 
Cincinnati 
The Notre Dame Club of Greater Cincinnati will award a four-year, S2,000 scholarship to the Uni­versity beginning with the fall, 1950, term. An­nouncement was made by John C. Cottingham, pres­ident of the club. The scholarship will go to a graduate of any accredited public, private or paro­chial high scliool in the Greater Cincinnati area. Awarding will be bxscd on financial need, scholastic attainment, moral character, activities, and person­ality of the nominees. No stipulations have been made regarding race, color, or creed. 
J. Walter Nienabcr, club secretary, has informed high school principals in the counties surrounding Cincinnati that each may nominate one student for the scholarship by March 1. The club's scholarship committee will pick the winner and one altcrna~tc from the list of nominees on or before June 1. Members of the Committee are Edward T. Dixon and Louis Richtcr, non-alumni, and Joseph S. Mor­rissey, Nienabcr^ and Chairman Albert D. Castcllini. The three alumni arc all past presidents of the Cin­cinnati Club. 
The Cincinnati Club's November meeting was designated as Fathers and Friends of Notre Dame Night. All the members of the club brought friends interested in Notre Dame. Principal speaker of the evening was D n Joseph E\-ans, ex-25, neuro-surgeon and a member of the staff of the Cincinnati Gen­eral Hospital. Dr. Evans* subject was "Secularism and the Professions." 
At the December meeting plan; were Liid for the fourth annual Scholarship Ball held Dec. 29 in the Netherland-Plaza's Pavilion Caprice. Plans were also made for the annual Students* Christmas Party. The purpose of the club's Christmas Party is to acquaint the alumni with the students now at school and to acquaint the students with the purposes and functions of the Alumni Association. This cooperation between the two groups has been found, from experience, to be particularly advan­tageous because of the assistance it gives us in securing student help for the various club functions. 
Bob Chenal was appointed chairman of the Uni­versal Notre Dame Communion Sunday obscr\'ance and arrangements were made for the members to attend Mass and receive Communion at the Fcn­wlck Chapel, Dec. 11. 
Potter Stewart will be guest speaker at the Cin­cinnati Club's Februar>* meeting—the 14th. He will speak on "Cincinnati, Past Present, and Future." 
—Bud Brockman 

Cleveland 
The Rt. Rev. Msgr. William L. Newton, a Notre Dame LL.D., was guest speaker at the Cleveland CIub!s obser\'ance of Universal Communion Sunday. Mass was celebrated at Cleveland's St. John Cathe­dral, and breakfast followed in the AUcrton Hotel. Flo McCarthy was chairman for the obser\"ance. 
The annual Christmas Formal was Dec. 30 in the Hotel Statler. Frank McGrodsr and Jerry Hammer were co-chairmen. 
A scholarship drawing was held Nov. 12 in con­junccion with a bingo party at the East Side Ttim­ers Hall. Ed Mom y was awarded the grand prize —two tickets and an all-expense trip to the Nsrth Carolina game. Tom Bremer was chairman for the party. 
The club turned out in a body to root for the 
Irish in their clash with John Carroll last month in 
the Cleveland Arena. (Ed. note: John Carroll, it 
will be remembered, missed most of its foul shots 
that night.) 
FatBer Mike Moriarty, the Class of 1910 secre­
tary, is resting in Rome City, Ind., following a 
minor heart ailment. -­
Jack Eldsr, former football great under Rockne, 
was principal speaker at Cathedral Latin High*s 
annual football banquet. Latin is coached by alum­
nus Auggi^ Bossu. . . . Karl Martcrsteck is super­
visor of the new Catholic Information Center near 
Catbednil Square in Cleveland. 
Bob Strieker, '41, is in City Hospital, 3395 Scran­
ton Rd., Cleveland, a victim of polio. A letter or 
card from his alumni friends would be appreciated. 
Three Cleveland alumni are teaching at the In­
stitute of Social Education at St. John's College. 
Father Edward Seward, assistant chancellor of the 
Cleveland diocese, teaches a course in the funda­
mentals of psychology; Karl Martcrsteck teaches 
'"Catholic Living Today;" and Joe Breig, assistant 
managing editor of the "Catholic Universe Bulle­
tin" and widely read Catholic journalist, teaches 
'^Marriage: a Joyful Sacrament." (For more on Joe 
Breiy, sec the current issue of "Information,** the 
Paulbt magazine.) 
The club's annual retreat will be held Feb. 24-26 
at St. Stanislaus Retreat House. 
—William H. GrifTy 

Columbus 
The Notre Dame Club of Columbus, with their sons, accompanied by guests and their sons, at­tended Mass in a body at St. Joseph'* <~:athedral Dec. 11 as a part of the national public celebration of the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. At the ^fass the group received Communion in a group. 
The sermon was delivered by Rev. Robert J. Shecli:in, CS.C , of the Department of Biology at Notre Dame. Father Sheehan's sermon w*as par­ticularly timely and scr\ed well to clarify some of the modem confusion u-ith regard lo religion. The Mass was celebrated by the chancellor of the Dio­cese, the Rt. Rev. ^fsgr. Francis J. Schwendeman. 
Fololwing Mass the group attended breakfast at the Seneca Hotel. It was at this breakfast that an address was delivered by a priest of the diocese. Rev. Charles A. Curran, Ph.D. Father Curran's remarks kept his audience spellbound and some of us are still amazed by its comprehension and clarity. 
On Hcc. 29 the local club held a danct; at the Seneca Hotel and the evening was a very pleasant one for those alumni who were presnt and for a number of the students. 
—J. J. Hughes, M.D. 

Four ND gridders won places oik "Extension" magcBine's 1949 JUl-CathoUc AU-Amer­ican team. Above, at a Chicago Club dinner held in the Drake Hotel Jan. 16 to honor the team, are (front row) the BL BOT. Joseph B. Lux. monaging editor of ^Txtennon," Hm Martin, ND; Leo Nomellini, Minnesota; Tom Moreski. Fordham; (back row) Bob Vf^lliams, ND; Bay Dooney (ex ND), Penn; Honk luGnaxik, SGciiigan State; Leon Hazt ND; John Buckley, president of the Chicago Club; and Art Conrad* banquet chairman. Emil Sitko was obsent. —Chicago "Siin-Times" photo. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Connecticut Valley 
The club held its annual Communion breakfast at the Hotel Bond, Hartford, following the 9 o'clcx:k Mass in St. Patrick's Church, vn De c 11. 
Principal speaker was Mr. Thomas J. Quirk, head-maser of Hartford Public High School, an accom­plished speaker and by no means a stranger to Notre Dame. Mr. Quirk has been a familiar figure on the Notre Dame campus as a member of the summer school faculty. 
After an enjoyable and instructive address by Mr. Quirk, members were informed that the recent club fund raising drive had realized the sum of $1500 for the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Continuing its policy of giving every* possible as­sistance to the Church's missionary work, the club has voted the sum of $100 to our former chaplain. Father Pat Quinlan, now laboring for souls in the isolated "no-priest land" in the South. The sum of $25 was voted to Father Bauer, C.S.C., hard-pressed for funds with which to carry on his fine ^v•ork in Texas. 
At a prior meeting the club had voted to partici­pate in the fund for the Van Wallace movie, the sum of $25 being appropriated. 
—Don Foskztt 

Dallas 
The Notre Damc-S.M.U. thriller has gone down in the record books as a 27-20 Wctor>' for N.D. but it looks as though the game will be replayed daily from now till Oct. 13, 1951, when wc meet the Mustangs again, this time in South Bend. 
Dallas, which likes to be referred to as "Big D " in the Southwest, was never as stirred up by any one event before. The first appearance of Notre Dam locally had Dallas in a frcnz>* for months be­forehand. Local alumni grew hoarse explaining why they couldn't supply business acquaintances u-ith tickets. 
President Ed Haggar was in general charge of ar­rangements for the S.M.U. weekend and like the uritcr, who beaded the committee on reception and entertainment for the official Notre Dame party*, had to practically give up his business for the 10 days preceding the game. 
Jim Swift and his committeemen did a superb job in putting over the big Friday night rally. Art Simpson and his group did themselves proud in arranging for the dinner for Father Ca\*anaugh and the Uni\*ersity trustees prior to the rally. 
The Friday night rally in the Baker Hotel drew a capacity audience with 1800 persons, with others turned au-ay for lack of room. A top-notcli evening of entertainment included film and radio comedian Bob Hope, movie actor and radio singer Tony Martin and the finest professional talent a^'allable in the Southwest. 
Father Cavanaugli made a tremendous hit with his short talk. Frank Leahy, Coach Matty Bell of S.M.U., Don Klillcr of Four Horseman fame, and other big names from the athletic world tvere pres­ent. All in all, it was quite a party. 

Saturday evening after the game the foodMll team was honored at three open houses. The Notre Dame Club of Dallas is indebted to the Dave Cow-dins, the Jim Sheas and the Walter FlenmgB yiho graciously arranged the parties. They were most helpful in helping the club entertain the team and the Notre Dame official party. 
On Sunday the dub- was host at a brundi ait^ Brook Hollow Go\( Clii^ which was attended by nearly 300. Father Caranaugh and his party, as • \vc\\ as the players, had a cliancc to meet and diat iv-ith the local alumni and their friends. The Jon Swifts held open house after the brunch, and that wound up a busy weekend of entertainment for the team before the squad left for Notre Dame at 6:00 Sunday evening. 
Sec you in South Bend in October, 1951 when half of Dallas is threatening to move en masse up north for the next clash with Notre Dame. 
So much for football. Among the recent newly­^v'eds in the club whose marriages have not been pre\^ously reported in this column are Mike Docan, Jim Crow, Bill Brown and Mark BannoB. 
Mike married Mary Louise Hatrston in Sacred Heart Cathedral, Aug. 6. Afark Baimon married Patricia Sue Wilkin in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame on Sept. II. Mark, who is vnth Haggar Pants Co., has been transferred to Minnesota where he is now in sales work. 
Bill Brown married Carolyn Morin in Chicago's St. Gertrude Church on Oct. 26. Jim Crow left the benedict's ranks on Nov. 5 when he married Georgia Sdienewcrk in Sacred Heart Cathedral. 
The club lost one of its long time stalwarts when Harold Delaney died on July 1. Harold had been active in local alumni affiairs for many, many years and his sudden passing was a blow to all who knew him. 
The club lost a number of members recently through transfers for business reasons. Al Anastana, who was in charge of advertising for the Wall Street **Journar* in the Southwest, is now np' resenting that publication in the Chicago area. Walt Pow*ers moved to Pittsburgh, Pa., to join the advertising department of Kaufman's department store 
Johnny Siena recently announced that he had joined the Dallas agency of the Great Southern Life Insurance Co. 
B. F. McL»n \%*as recently elected president of tlie Dallas Community Chest. He will get plenty of assistance from Jim Simmons ivho vns elected a vice-president. 
Jim Metcalfe, whose daily poetry feature, "Por­traits," is syndicated in more than 100 of the country's leading neu*spapers, recently published an­other book, ''Garden In My Heart." 
Ed and Joe Haggar were in the neu*s recently 

At the Dedlps Club's pre-SMU-gcone bnineh were (left to right) Father Caraaaagh. Mr. and Mn. J. M. Haggar, Tom Braniii, and Goremor cmd Mn. Allan Shirera. 
when they turned the traditional first shovelful of dirt for the neu* plant which their firm is construct­ing in Greenville, Texas. 
About 25 of the club's members attended Mass and received communion at Christ the King Church on De c 11 in observance of Uni^Trsal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. Because of the heavy schedule of activities in connection with the S.M.U. game the previous week, no breakfast was held. 
' The club's first membership directory was issued just before the S.M.U. weekend. When all the tab­ulating was completed the club secretary was much surprised to disco\-er that the membership had passed the 120 mark. Credit for much of the check­ing of names and addresses in compiling the direct­ory must go to Bod Goldman and the better half of the Moran family, wife Pat. 
—John J. Moraa 

Danville 
Officers of the new Dan\-ille Club are John Meyer, chairman; Leo Haae, \-ice-chairman; and Bob Mor­ris, secretary*-treasurer. Father Bourke Motsett, pas­tor of St. Paul's palish is duqilain. 
Alumni at the club's December meeting were: JoliB E. Morrissey, Ed%irard J. Layden, Florxan 

E. Tmrcs, Lester D. Fahey, Joseph W. Meitzfer, Jobs D. Bdton, Ralph Dalton, Joseph L. Bauer, Rev. C. B. Motsett, William R. Morris, John P. Meyer, and Leslie C. Hahne, Jr. 
Detroit 
The EleiTnth Annual Communion Breakfast of the Detroit Club, on Sunday, Dec, II, u-as its most successful thus far—161 members and their guests were present. Afass and Communion were at St. Aloystus Church and an excellent breakfast was served at the Book-Cadillac Hotel. 
Father Comdins Laslunvski, C.S.C., returned by popular demand, was the principal speaker for the second year. His talk drew praise from everyone, and many members said later that they had never before heard anyone so perfectly develop the theme of "Notre Dame, Its Aims and Accomplishments." 
Something new introduced this year by Chairman Edward C Roney, Jr., and his committee was the attendance of many of Notre Dame's loyal friends, eager to' partake in the activities of "their Uni­versity's" alumni program. 
The club had a hand in presentation of a per­manent tn^hy to be held by the winning team after each Notre Dame-Michigan State football game. Now in possession of Coach Frank Leahy and Notre Dame tmtil next year's game, the trophy is a large megaphone painted half in Notre Dame and half m Michigan State colors with their monograms. Down the front from top to bottom are the scores of each of the 17 games played by the two schools. Although originated by Ed Rone>- of the Notre Dame Club, the trophy u-as presented to the two schools jointly by the Notre Dame Club of Detroit and the Kfichigan State Club of Detroit as another sign of the goodwill between these two great uni­\'crsities and their alumni. 
The Detroit Club's annual Christmas Ball x^'as held De c 28 in the Arabian Room of the Hotel Toiler. The dance was jointly sponsored by the alumni club and by the Detroit Club of Notre Dame, the student group. C. A. Look was chair­man for the affair. He was assisted by Jack Alef, Jack Roosseaa, and Jerry Wayno. 
The club helped promote the Detroit "Times' " 

"annual fciotball banquet Feb. 7 at the Masonic Temple. Awards were made to Frank Leahy, Leon Hart, Jim Martin, and Emil Sitko. —^Mel Knaus 
Dubuque 
New officers led the Dubuque Club in its observ­ance of Universal Communion Sunday at Loras Col­lege's Christ the King Chapel. They were Robert KeaEiie, 418 Bank &. Insurance BIdg., president; NidMlas J. Sutton, vice-president, class of '43, 1700 
N. Algona St., vice-president; and William Ctemens, Jr., 25 Nevada St. All addresses are in Dubuque. The Rt. Rev. Loras T. Lane said the Mass. 
Duuth-Superior 
The Duluth Superior Notre Dame Club put on a communion breakfast on De c 11, at the' Hotel Holland in Duluth. By the standards of a small 
Volume 28. No. 1. January-February. 1950 
Thtt Notre Dome Club of Memphis brought out this group of smiling alumni for its ob­serronce of UniTersot Communion Sunday. Dec. 11 ot Immaculate Conception Church. 
group such as ours, it was an event on the sue* ccssful side. 
Present ucrc: Bill CoUeVy Jim Keought Phil, ^VilJ, and Dick Hocne, Jim ClifTord, Fred Wolir^ Bud Liemandt, and Gerald McGill. 
After putting away the "viltlcs," we discussed plans for showing the N.D. football pictures again this coming February-. Our showing last year did quite well, but the usual mistakes of a first venture will be corrected (we hope!) this time. 
The club voted to send ten dollars to the Van Wallace Fund. 
Several of us, plus wives, met at the home of Bud Uemandt to see what can be done towards getting the women interested in forming an "auxi­liary." The Twin Cities Club has one, and they do a great job. 
—Jim Kcough 

Fort Lauderdale 
The Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale has held regular meetings on the first Wednesday of every month throughout the entire year. Prior to each meeting a dinner was held to which ladles and friends of the University were cordially invited to attend. 
During the 1949 football season, every Saturday aftemoonT a cocktail party was held—paid for from funds out of the club treasury. Invited guests in­cluded all alumni of the opposing team to listen to the game and partake of the refreshments 5cr\-ed in the penthouse of the Governor's Club Hotel. 
The Fort Lauderdale Club issued invitations to all Notre Dame football players to be their guests of honor at a dinner held for them when they played in the North-South game in Miami Dec. 26. 
Every year for the past few years we have had the great pleasure of having Father Cavanaugh with us during the winter season, at which time we were pleased to give a banquet in his honor. We are hoping for and anticipating his presence within the next few months. Whenever any alumnus of Notre Dame visits Fort Lauderdale, he can be assured of a most hearty welcome by the members of the Notre Dame Club of Fort I^uderdale. 
—Walter Cran= 

Ft. Smithy Arkansas 
The Fort Smith Club showed the 1W8 Notre Dame Highlights movie at a fall meeting. Also shown were movies of the T-C.U.-Arkansas game. Over 75 Fort Smith football fans attended the party. 
The latter party was a follow-up on the club's first social affair, at which eight alumni, a dozen subway alumni, and numerous guests heard Frank Leahy talk about his *49 team. Co-featured at the "christening" was John Bamhitl, athletic director of the University of Arkansas. It was announced that the Irish and Arkansas "B" teams will meet in Fort Smith Nov. 4, 1950. The Fort Smith Club will sponsor the game. 
The club is compiling a complete directory of all local club members. 
Fort Smitirs obscr\*ancc of Universal Commu­nion Sunday was Dec. 18, a week later than most cither clubs. 
A Fort Smith radio station carried a half-hour program Dec. 9 to publicuzc the Natural Law In­stitute. Three club members spoke on the program. 
The first members of the Port Smith Club are: Will O'Shea, M3; Vincent Narisi, '35; Raymoad Marre, *37; DuVal Johnston, '37; Hugh CorrcD, '38; Burley Johnston, '40; DaWd Johnston, '42; and Hoyt Kirkpatrick, '43. 
Fort Wayne 
Fort Wayne Club news centers around the Com­munion Sunday turnout, and the Football Party held N« V. 3 in St. Patrick's Church Lyceum. The former mentioned event was held at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception, with Msgr. Jolm Dapp officiating at the eight o'clock Mass. After Mass the membership adjourned over to a local restaurant where breakfast was ser\*ed. The Rev. Frederick Wcstendorf, the chaplain of the club, gave a splcndia talk on science and religion. Father Westcndorf is the principal of the local Ceatral Catholic High School. Norbert Schenksl was the general chairman of the event and was assisted by Harry Humbrecht and James Holdiouse. 
In the latter event, the membership met at St. Patrick's Church Lyceum at 7:30 p. m. where movies of the Southern California game were showt along with the Football Highlights of 1948. Daa McDonald, Jr., was the toastmaster of the event and Dave Warner, now a sportswritcr on the Fort Wayne "News-SentincI," gave a running account of who the players were as the picture progressed. The committee for this event consisted of Didc Doermer, Tyke Hartman, John Truemper, Jr., BOl Herber, Roy Grimmer, Jr., and James Holchtmn. Lunch was served afterwards along with liquid rc­fresments and the boys broke up into social groups at the card tables. 
Robert Gordon and Frederick Sdboppinaii reaUy made the boys who played with them talk to them­selves. 
Fred Schoppman was made the president of the St. Mary's Alumni Association (a commercial Jugh school in this city and not the college acrc»s the lake). 
James Miller was elected president of the club at its first fall meeting. Others elected were: l« i Logan, Jr., vice-president; R. Richard Blmne, treas­urer; and Thomas Logan, secretary. 
The annual Christmas Formal was held Dec. 27 at the Fort Wayne Coimtry Club. 
Jerome O'Dowd was elected president of the local chapter of the Associated Catholic Charities this month. S'all for now. 
—J. Bynm Hayes 

Grand Rapids 
Like Fort Smith, the Grand Rapids Club held its observance of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday a week after everybody elese—on Dec. 18. Mass was at St. Stephen's Church, breakfast was 
in the parish aoditinium. The Rev. John L. Wcdv-: le v spoke at the breakfast, for which Jdtai iUt was-ICC. End Gact is president of the cUb, and Joe DBBB was chairman for Communion Simday. 
A lifetime honorary mendtcrship in the dub has been presented Dr. Fra k Donua, an ontstandii^ Grand Raqiids doctor. Dr. Doran is a Midugan grad bat an N.D. fan. He was a longtime friend <^ the late Fatkcr Hn ^ CDoancn. 
Greater Miami 
St. Patrick's Chnrch in Miami Beach saw the Greater Kflami Club's observance of Universa] Com­muaSoo Sunday. Breakfast was served at the £1 Morocco Hotel. I. I. Robst and Fred Jamea were in charge of reservaUons. 
The club reports success with its air excursion to the Southern Cal game, but engine tronfale forced abandonment of plans for a trip to the S.M.U. fracas. 
Urban Kokeage is tlte father of a son, Thomas Allen, bom Nov. 2. 
A football party gathered at the home of A. A* Kotte to hear the Tulane game. Some 31 ahnnni and wives were on hand for the party. 
Green Bay 
Seventeen members tiuned out for the Green Bay Club's observance of Notre Dame Communion Sunday at St. Patrick's Church. Breakfast and a short meeting followed at the Beaumont HoteL As­semblyman Bob Lynd discussed Wisconsin's institu­tions for the criminal and insane, pointing out that proper himie life would have pre\*cnted many of the cases now being handled. The club's CtnnmanxMis were offered for Joe Ncnfidd, a recent NJ>. grad­uate, who is going through a series of tolerations in a Milwaukee hospital for collapsing of a lung. 
Club President KuoM Loado made a strong plea at the Communion breakfast for contributions to the Foundation Fund. Several were made at the meeting!. 
Londa w ^ re-elected president at the November meeting of the club. Levi Geniesie was re-elected secretary at the same meeting. The session was held in the Christopher Room of Hnchgrevc's Brew­ery, where members heard the Kfichigan State game and dined at a buffet supper. 
Harrisburg 
Officers of the Harrubuix Club for 19(9-50 are Edward R. Eckenrode, Jr.. '44, 1931 BeUevue Rd., president; Willbm J. Moore, '26, 430 N. 32 St., secretary-treasurer; and Frederick E. Loes<lcr, ex­44, 2200 Northfield Rd., vice-prcsideDt. All tlie ad­dresses are ID Harrisburg, Pa. 
A delegation from the club was nrcsent for the 100th anniversary celebration of St. Joseph's Church in Lancaster, Pa., this month. Henry Rdim helped arrange the aifair. 
Bin Gofmaa, former v-p, has been transferred to New York, where he is working for the U. S. Public He^th Department in its river and stream sanitation program. 
The Harrisburg Club is inviting alumni in the York and Lancaster areas to affiliate themselves with the Harrisburg group. 
Indianapolis 
Kickoff meeting of the fall season was held at the 
K. of C. on Sept. 20 with the showing of the movie ''Highlights of Notre Dame 1948 Season." . . . Then on Nov. I Notre Dame's able trainer, Hngk Buns, was down to show the pictures of the Notre Dame-Washington .«ame. A capacity crowd was on liand and talked Hughie into the wee hours of the morning. 
Overflow local Irish followers on » again have swelled the coffers of the Scholarship Fund by traveling to South Bend and New York on F ^ Fisher'i Football Specials. . . . Pat engineered the trains to the Indiana, Tulane, North Carolina and Southern California games. . . . Needless to sary, another Marion County high school graduate will be assured of a four-year scholarship. 
With Ed Fiiker as chairman and SGke Rcddiac­toa as master of ceremonies, De c 11, Universal Cocnmunioo Sunday, was another local success. We all attended Mass and Holy Communion in a body 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Board Approves Third Club President Council 
The third Council o! Local Alumni Pretidents, to be held on Thursday and Friday of Class Reunion Week, lune 8 and 9, has been approved by the Alumni Board. 
The first two councils, through which presidents of local alumni clubs meet at the University with transportation and housing costs defrayed by the Alumni Associa­tion, were outstandingly successful in stimulating broader and more intensive programs in the estab­lished clubs and in encouraging the organization of new clubs. 
The board has agreed that cir­cumstances of growth and develop­ment justify another convocation of 
4he presidents in the interests of exchanging valuable experiences and stressing the great common de­nominators of progress. 
University administrators. Alumni Association and Foundation offi­

at the Blessed Sacrament Cliapcl at the Cathedral and then treked to the Marott Hotel for breakfast. Dr. L. H. Baldtnger, Dean of tlie College of Sci­ence, was principal speaker and did a marvelous job in that capacity. .. . In fact we of Indianapolis hope that Helen and Larry will honor us again soon. .. . A special bouquet to Charley Mason's wife, Catherine, our Sunday morning hostess. Mayor Al Fecncy, Msgr. R. R. Noll, Father John Dcv'er, C.S.C., and Father Tliomas Cassius of the Alvcrna Retreat House all honored us with short speeches (three minutes). 
The annual "Christmas Candlelight Formal" was held this year at the Indiana Roof on De c 27 with Louie Lowe and his orchestra furnishing the music The dance is always staged by tlie campus Indiana­polis Club and its president, Harold SuUii-an, ap­pointed Jim Welch as the head man for tlie evening. 
Butler University's *'Big 4" basketball classic on De c 29 and 30 wound up the 1949 season. Tliis round-robin tourney brought logclhcr Ed Krause and his Notre Dame five, as well as those from Butler, Indiana and Purdue. 
More later on the Legion of Dcccnc\- drive being instigated by Mayor A! Feeney and his Religion and Citizenship Committee. 
Hugh Bums came back to Indianapolis Feb. 1 to show the Southern Methodist game pictures. 
The club promoted the Notre Dame Band's con­cert Feb. 12 at Marion College. Joe Harmon was general chairman, assisted by Roy Kcach, Jr., who handled ticket sales. 
March 24 has been set as the date for the club's weekend retreat at the Alvema Retreat House. 
Joliet-Kankakee 
The Joliet Club is no more. Tlic club voted last 

fall to change its name to the Notre Dame Club 
of Joliet-Kankakee. 
Art Smith is the club's new president, succeeding Joseph V. Kirindch. Art's address b R. D. No. 2, Joliet. The new secretary is Richard E. McHugh, 
R. D. No. 2, Manhattan, 111. 
Kentucky 
The Louis\alle ''Courier Journal" carried a three-page story in its Oct. 30 feature magazine on the Kentucky Club's excursion to the Tulane game. The diA brought 60 orphans and underprivileged children to the game, along with some 350 Kentucky fans. It 
cers, and most important of all — panels of club presidents and spe­cialists in club programs, will fill the Thursday and Friday morning sessions with material that will make it vital for club presidents to be present. 
Details of the program will be communicated to the club presi­dents as rapidly as they develop, but all clubs should be planning now on having the president avail­able for this significant occasion. Its value will be in proportion to full participation and suggestion. 
Club fund-raising for club pro­grams, the enrollment program, the prestige program, the Foundation, football problems such as blocs of tickets, films, coach speakers, etc., will be considered. Clubs are also asked to chaimel through the presi­dent topics which would be appro­priate for special or panel dis-
was the first college game the children had seen and the first train ride for most of them. 
The excursion, an annual affair, was organized by President Jim Carrico, Roger Huter, Joe Donald­son, Fnmk Blocmer, and Pierrs Engermeir. The children were provided with transportation, three meals, a sideline ticket to the game, programs, and all the food and entertainment e.vtras the club could think of. Arrangements, which began sLx montlis before the game, were aided by the Civic Club of Louisville. The club also sponsored an excursion to the Southern Cal game. 
The club extends an invitation to al! alumni \'is­

iting I,outs\'ille to drop in at its meetings, held the 
third Thursday of each month at 8 p. m. at the 
40 St 8 Chateau, 617'/- S. 4th St., Louisville. —Oscar C. Von AUmen, Jr. 

Los Angeles 
The Los Angeles Club ran off a crowded pro­gram of fall activities. Working backwards in time, they were, 
De c ll^-TIie club's observanix of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was held at Our Lady Help of Christians Church, with breakfast following in the piirish hall. The Afass was said by Rev. John Lynch, C.S.C., chaplain of Notre Dame High School in Los Angeles. The sermon was given by Rev. Vincent Llo>-d Russell, pastor of Our Lady Help of Christians. Speakers at the breakfast in­cluded the Hon. Joseph Scott, the Hon. Judge A. 
A. Scott, and Bcno Xf. Brink, federal referee in bankruptcy*. 
Arrangements were made by a committee headed by Lou Berardi and included Father L>'nch, Rev. Raymond E. Finan, C.S.C., Joe Cass, Don Brady, John Houston, Bill Cantahan, Dave Bernard, Harry Denny, Ray Daschback, Frank Meyer, John Pro-peck, Jack Pfarr, Bob McNfahon, and Melville Rif^. To encourage a father-son get-together there was no charge for children at the breakfast. Special arrangements were made to transport car-less mem­bers to the obscr\-ancc. 
Nov. 26—^Thc club held a no-spcakcr football lunclicon to hear the broadcast of the Southern Cal game. Jim McCabc and Harry Denny handled arrangements. 
Nov. 3—^JefF Cra\-ath, the Hon. Joe Scott, and Mark Kelly were guest speakers at the club's an­nual Sports Dinner at the Nikabob Cafe. Chief topic of the program was the Irish-Trojan rivalry*. Cravath told the audience that he was glad Notre Dame was still on his schedule. 
**Some of the critics who handed me a champion­ship team on a platter may not want to go to 
These alumni played key roles at the recent Boehester, N. YM Press-Radio Club polio dinner, which cleared $7,000 for the March of Dimes. They are. left to right. Jack Slat­tery. '48, sports writer for the "Democrat ond Chronicle"; Johnny Lujack. '48, Chicago Bear quarterback: Frank (Shag) Shoughneisy. '06, president of the International BasebaU League: Jerry Flynn, '40, toastmasler ond iormer Noral Academy publicity director; and Bill OToole. pubUdty director of the Siromberg-Cotlsan Co„ which donated a televi­. sion receiver to the winner of a club contest. Lujoek auctioned off one of Frank Leahy's baseball caps at the dinner for $100. 
Volume 28, No. 1, January-February, 1950 
The Notre Dame Club of New York did things up in large 4. One table oi guests at the rally including Columnist style for the North Carolina week-end. Here are shots of some George E. Sololsky, extreme left imd Club President Jordon of the goings on: Hargrove, extreme righL 
5. Fronk WoUace addressing the overflow eiow at the After­1. John Stack leads the club's choral group in a number at Game Beceptibn'in the New Yoric Athletic Club with Bill F^on. 
the rally in the Hotel Biltmore on the eve of the North Carolina club vice-president, and George Vegora on Ids right
game. Left to right: Guy Perenich. Anthony Donadio. John De­bittetto, John MacCauley. John Balfe. Ed Alexander, Don Tiede-6. Portion of the 1100 lucky people to get into the rally. man, Jim Tracey. hidden from view, Larry Madigan. Dan Sallows 
7. General RoUy chairman, amiable Kemey O'Bouike, look­and Charles Colgan. 
ing like he Just found a pair of extra tickets to the game. 
2. Comedian Peter Donald, master of ceremonies at the rally 8. Father Theodore Hesburgh. C.S.C and Jerry Brown, wiimer and Francis "Bugs" Walihers and his orchestra. 
of pair of tickets for selling most books (77) for the Trust Fund. Second year in successioa Jerry's won. 
3. Al Perrine, club secretary. President Jordan Hargrove, and Frank Wallace at Trust meeting of the Club a few nights before 9. Father Hesburgh addressing Trust Fund meeting, and cap­the game. able Bob Hamilton, choirman of the Trust Fund. 
South Bend on N'ov. 26 to watdi us play the Irish," lie said, '"but I'll be there if 1 have to get out of my death bed to make the trip." The USC coach praised football as one of the principles of the American way of life. 
Scott, the keynote speaker, compared Notre Dame's patriotism to that of otitcr schools and scorned the failure of 50 ^ of U.G.L.A.'s faculty to take a loyalty oatb.. Kelly ventured the opinion that were Knutc Rbcknc alive today he would be just as far ahcadr of. his fellow coaches as he was 20 years ago. 
Prayers arc also asked for Mrs. Charlotte Bourbeau, wife of Ed Bourbeau. 
Memphis 
Msgr. M. F. Kearney, club chaplain, celebrated Mass at Immaculate Conception Church for the Memphis Club's obscn'ance of Universal Commu­nion Sunday. (Sec cut.) Msgr. Kearney hosted the cUib at breakfast afterward in his rectory. 
One of the members in attendance was Michael 
Michigan City 
Activities held by the Michigan City Club lately were the Universal Communion Sunday breakfast, election of officers, and the annual winter dance, Jan. 14. Plans arc being made for Universal Notre Dame Night, a summer social for club families, and the third annual Irish Greens Party in July. 
Milwaukee 
Other speakers at the banquet were Jimmy Phc­lan, Ray Richards, Bert LaBnicherie, and LA sports writers. Jack Tobin arranged the party. 
Oct. 15—The Beverly-Wilshirc Hotel's Mayfair Room was the scene of the club's 5rst annual fall dance. Dr. Harold Gueiin was chairman of the dance committee. '•"*' 
J. McCormacJc, a graduate of the Class of 1899 and one of the few living members of that class (which celebrated its golden anniversary last year). 
At the breakfast P. A. McPbillips, chairman of the Foundation for Memphis^ addressed the group briefly on the Foundation's progress and further needs. 
Coach Bill Earley spoke before the Memphis Quarterback Club the Monday after the S.M-U. 
The Milwaukee Club slated a full round of ac* tivities in December. On Dec. 6 the club saw the Highlights of 1^8 football movies. A packed house at the Shorcwood Theater saw the SMU thriller-OQ Dec. 11, Universal Notre Dame Comxnunlbn Sunday, nearly 40 members received communion at the St. Charles Boys Home. The Milwaukee Notre Dame Family Msus was held De c 26, and the annual Christmas Dance a fetr days after that, on 
Prayers arc requested for -two members of the game and showed movies of the North Caroliiia the 28. Members of the committee for the dance Los Angeles Club, who died recently^—Tom Heam, fray. were IKck Casper, Jolin Burke, Jack Sbcrer, Mark former Foundation governor, and Carl Sabo, '39. —Phn M. Canale, Jr. Pfallcr, and David Rulfs. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

A club dinner, No\-. 12, honored radio star-alumnus Walter O'Kcefe. O'Kccfc was appearing at the Miluaukcc Food Show. 
—Richard Balliet 

Mohawk Valley 
Two tickets and a hundred dollars expense money for the North Carolina game were atvutled by the Mohawk Valley Club last fall. Proceeds went to the Foundation. 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday break­fast was held at the Hotel Utica in Utica, N. Y., Dec. \\, with Brother Martin John as main speaker. 
It has been decided by the club to hold all meet­ings the first TTiursday of each month at the Hotel Utica. 
—Edward A. Reagan 

Monongahela Valley {Pa.) 
Tlie ^fonongahela Valley Club obscr\-ed Univer­sal Notre Dame Communion Sunday De c 11 at St. Sebastian Chuirh In Bcllc Vernon, Pa. 
Notre Dame men as parish leaders was the topic for the January- meeting, held at the home of Vince Soissons, Charleroi, Pa. 
Ed Dean, Foundation chairman for the ^Xonon­gahela Valley, has been appointed assistant superin­tendent of the coke and b\-products division of the Pittsburgh Steel Co. 
Jim Devlin is recovering from an abdominal op­eration performed at Merc>' Hospital in Pittsburgh. Jim Rtuodl has completely recovered from his emer­gency appendectomy. 
New Jersey 
The fate of Germany and Europe Is in the hands of 12,000,000 expellees dumped into Germany by Russia under the terms of the Potsdam agreement, Richard Reid KSG, editor of the "Catholic News," told members of the Notre Dame Club of New Jerscv* at their annual Communion breakfast at the Military Park Hotel, Newark, on Sunday, Dec. U. 
The Mass was celebrated by the Rev. Christopher Clark in St. John's Church. 
If America docs not help the ex-pcllees to find a place in the straitened German economy, they may grasp at the straw of Communist promises and form the nucleus of a Communist state In Germany, Mr. Reid said. 
'*And if Germany goes Communist, all of Europe will fall under the Soviet heel and America will be in grave danger," the noted Catholic layman warned. 
At the last election, the expellees—German na­tionals living in Allied-occupied countries who were deported to Germany—voted for the \Vcst-favored Adenauer regime, ^fr. Reid said, but he pointed out that there was no assurance that they would con­tinue to fax-or the West. 
Help for Germany must come from America be­cause the other Western countries arc in no position to give aid, Mr. Reid said. He urged his Notre Dame audience to give generously to the War Relief Services of the National Catholic Welfare Conference. 
Mr. Reid, who made a survey of tlie secular and religious press in Germany this year for the Ameri­can Military Government, said the task of the AlblG has been considerably lightened by the co­operation of German religious leaders, both Catho­lic and Protestant. He praised the administration 
of General Lucius Clay. Tlumas Hogan, *39, of Maplcwood, president of the New Jersey Club, presided at the breakfast. J. Tforbcrt Gdson, '26, of Summit, was toastmaster. 
ALimNI SONS JU>PLY EABLY 
ReT. Louis J. Thornton, C^-C, reg­istrar of the University, has sug­gested that immediate application of those alumni sons who plan to enter Notre Dame in September will fa­cilitate the work of his office, and ormd embaxrosung late situations on filled departmental cTuotas. 

The New York Club held its VtawmsBtd Coffimnniea breakfast at the Hotel Biltmore. Snapped at the breakfast were Jordoa Hargrove* president ol the dub; Professor James' 
A. Reyniers. head of LOBUND; Corioa P. Iknralo, main specdcer ot the Natural Low 
Institute and Notre Dame IU>. of 1935; and Em McGoldriek, general chairman of the breakfast and ionner football captain. 
Freshman Welcome Al Perrinc's first report for 1950 follows: Father Frank Gartland, C.S.C., editor of **The Not since the cessation of the Army game here in Catholic Boy," was guest of honor at the club's New York has a fall produced such activity as did annual Freshman Welcome at the Military Park this past few months. Although it is history now, 
Hotel in Newark, Sept. 7. Elmer Kbtthews of the North Carolina weekend ri\'aled just about 
South Orange was chairman of the affair. Father anything the Army game used to produce. The rally 
Gartland was the house guest of Eddie Dusgaa, on Friday night before the game produced much Newark attorney, whQc in town. enthusiasm and was aided and abetted by the tre­mendous job done by Tiemey O'Rourke, general 
Father Gartland, who learned the art of plain 
chairman, and Martin Callagy in producing enter­speech years ago when he was writing the Religious 
tainment of the highest calibre. Bulletin, did some straight-from-the-shoulder talk­ing to the Notre Damc-bound frosh from Jersey, 
The game of course spoke for itself, but a new 
feature was added to the weekend in the form of 
"If money is your criterion of success, don't go an after-game reception held at the New York Ath­
to Notre Dame," Father Gartland told them blunt­letic Club. Approximately 2,500 people attended the 
ly. **Don*t waste your time and your father's reception for the team and coaches and after the 
money. Stay here In Jersey and start yourself some din died down it was agreed that the event was 
kind of gyp business." on the books for good, even if we played Pucker­
ing Valley State Teachers in the Stadium. 
The first duty of cverj- Notre Dame man is to 
become a great Catholic, a saint if possible, and to In conjunction with the Carolina weekend. Bob 
do his utmost after graduation to transform the Hanultoa agsun conducted a highly successful trust world. Father Gartland said. The tried and true ftmd campaign using chance books and his usual fonnula for successful IKing, he said, was daily Mass genial high pressure salesmanship to accimnulate 
and Holy Communion. about $3,500, which will go again towards scholar­
ships for worthy and needy students next year. 
The Navy game trip was next on the club agenda last fall. Proceeds from a ticket awarding Two weeks previous to the Carolina game, Char­went to the New Jersey Alumni Scholarship Fund ley McCanpley conducted a very successful and 
and the Notre Dame Foundation. Pete Qimm of pleasant trip to the Navy game in Baltimore with Bloomfield, the club's perennially successful ticket ^proximately 350 taking the special down that award chairman, is handling the event again this day. This was Charley's first crack at the job, and year, if this year is any criterion, the Penn Railroad —BiU Waldnm 
had iMtter start polishing up its best surplus equip­ment for next year and years to come. 
De c 1] and Jim McGoldriek gave impetus to one of the best Universal Communion Breakfasts yet held. Jim worked ceaselessly for weeks before 
New York City 
James H. Shdls, '35, executive assistant to the the event and the results bore out his efforts. The deputy mayor of New York City, is the new presi­Biltmore Hotel that morning rang with the excel­dent of the Notre Dame Club of New York. He lent q>ecches of General CaHos P. Romulo, LL.D., 
succeeds Jordan T. Hai^rave. His business address *35, president of the UN General Assembly, and is 50 Pine St., New York City. Al Perrine has l}een Prof. James A. Reyniers of LOBUND on the cam­retained as secretary and Jim Spellmaa as trea«­pus. General Romulo, greatly regarded as one of urer. Five (count *em) \ice-presidents were elected— the best speakers of today, dwelt on the individu­Bud Gallagy, Jack Hoyt, Tiemey O'Roarke, Jim ality of man and his relation with the thinking in McGoldriek, and Bill Fallon. 
the U N at present. Prof. Reyniers, whose speech The club's new board of governors elected with 
will appear in the March-April issue of "The Cath­the new officers at the January meeting, are Joha 
olic Mind," spoke of the harm?r.y between religion Balfe, Jerry Brown, Jordan Har^ove, James Mc­
and science, the theme of this year*s Communion Goldriek, James Shdis, Ed Beckman, Edwin Bcik­
breakfast. 
ery, WiUiam Fallon, Jt ^ Fionermaa, and Joka The above events are highlights of the fall sea­McCauley. They join incumbents Herbert Gioi^po, 
son and stand out slightly above the numerous ac­Robert Hanultaii, George Olvaoy, Greg Rice, and 
tivities and meetings held by the club thus far. James Spellman. 
Penciled in for the near future, in addition to the 
Volume 28. No. 1, lanuary-February, 1950 
monthly meetings, are such things as ai Glee Club 
concert and reception and Universal Notre Dame 
Night—more about them as they develop. 
—Al Perrine 

Oregon 
Notre Dame's first football visit to the North­west brought a bonanza of more than brickbats (one expects those among the Irish!}. Our alma mater was on more tongues per square block from the opening of the season down to the final gun than even the native outfits. It gave most of us plenty of chances to tell our northwest neighbors about Notre Dame's more important qualities. 
Another part of the bonanza boosted our treasury more than enough to offer the University a no-strings gift of two hundred and fifty dollars toward the Science Building. Under the leadership of co-chairmen Albert M. (Duke) Hodler, '23. and Mor­rison A. Conway, '14. the "contribution receipts" campaign was most successful. Morrie Conway was top man in the drive—fine example to his freshman son at Notre Dame. Miss Lancta Kirfay, Pacific Telephone Company worker, ivhose ncplie»v is also at Notre Dame, won the top brace of prized seats. 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday saw a record crowd at Mass and the breakfast. The University of Portland was host to her sister-school's sons. Co-chairmen Dom Callicrate» '07, and Ed Sandstrom, M.A., '39, take a bow for a good job! Father ThcodoTC J. Mehling, C.S.C., '29, president of University of Portland, reminded his hearers at breakfast of the threats to non-public school educa­tion. Our thanks to Father Mehling for his gradous hospitality and pertinent message. Also to Father Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., new Portland vice-presi­
dent, who gave us the benefit of Notre Dame's Leon Hart presents the Pluladelphia Chah'm tzo|dir lor most TolaoUo plof er ia th« city's 
appraisal of its alumni as spiritual and civic leaders 
Catholic league to Ernie liGUer, guard for Nwth Catholic ffigh's loom. Watcfaxag ars« 
in their communities. The presence of so many 
wives of club members was most welcome. It was left. Jack Gillespie. North Catholic coach, ond JL F. (Bud) Dudler* our first chance to greet newcomers Alvin C. Gross, president of the Philadelphia Qnb. '49, Warren J. Hans, '43, his guest. Miss Florence Latta, and Ed O'Meara, M.A., '40. —Tom Magee 
club presented Jim with a traveling case In recog­members and outside guests alike. Approximatchr nition of the swell Job that he is doing. . . ." 100 couples attended. It was held at the William 
Peoria 
Penn Hotel, Dec. 28. it reported, the had addi­The Philadelphia obser\*ance was so well attended, 
Hu ^ Bums, University athletic trainer, was guest  is that hotel to jam The Foundation Fund will benefit gencroosly from 
tional tables into a room that was supposed to be 
speaker at the club's observance of Universal Notre the proceeds. The success of the dance is due large­
Dame Communion Sunday. Hugh's highly enjoy­too big for the affair. Special invitations went out ly to the efforts of the co-chairmen Ha ^ Gat­able talk was followed by a question and answer lai^ier and Don Htzpatrick who efficiently handled 
beforehand to alumni wives, urging them to make period, and movies of the Southern Cal game. John the many details of preparation. Also working hard 
the affair one for the whole family. Prominent 
stories in all the Philly papers reported the event. 
Goonen handled the arrangements. to put over this affair were Eugene Coyn^ dob 
Don Young was the man responsible for the success 
president; Frank McSoriey, who personally secured The club's Christmas Dance was held Dec. 23 at of the observance. 
over 50 patrons; Regis Lavdle, Bcrnie Lyn d jmd the Jefferson Hotel. Don Smith was chairman for Cari link who cheerfully took care of ticket prob­Other Philadelphia news: the semi-formal affair, assisted by Tom Connor, lems, and many others who publicized, promoted 
All the club officers and its board of governors 
Ray Wchman, and X^u Crystal. 
and sold numerous tickets. 
were present at the Afaxwell Club Award diimer, 
One of the club's meetings last fall was held at Jan. 10, when Leon Hart received the Maxwell The student Pittsburgh Clid> was particularly re­the Pabst Brewing Co. (See cut.) 
Trophy as the outstanding college gridder of 1949. sponsive to this event and their sumwrt Is greatly Leon was only the second lineman ever to receive ai^reciated. The officers and members of the stu­the award. dent group turned out in force and helped connd-
Philadelphia 
erably in increasing the crowd. 
In addition to seeing that the club's members and friends had a good time at the Navy game, Jim Devfin, director of public works, was mf^ 
The following is a report from Bill Bums on 
the Philadelphia outfit brought 25 boys from the pointed acting mayor of the City of Pittdmri^: the Philadelphia Club's tremendously successful Uni­
St. Joseph House for Homeless Boys as their guests. during January, by the Hon. David L. Lawrence,' versal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. (Sec cut.) Over 600 people made the Navy game in the latter's absence. This was a dutingmsbed 
"Over 200 members and their friends attended excursion to Baltimore. Joe Cattie directed the trip, honor for the Notre Dame Club of-Pittsbor^ and the 9 o'clock Mass, which was celebrated by Rev. Philadelphia's first such outing. we all congratulate Jim for this and for hu good Charles J. Mahoney, C.S.C., at St. John's Church. job in the Public Works Department. This large group attended our breakfast followed immediately at the Adelphia Hotel. Bud Dudley pre­Pittsburgh  9, Rev. Vmceat BreaBan made a
On Friday, De c sided over a most interesting program. 
broadcast frmn radio station KDKA, Pittdrar^ Hb subject was "The Natural Law," and was timed to "Our club for the first time presented an annual The annual retreat was held at St. Paul's Retreat publkhe the Natural Law Institute being beld on 
trophy to the most valuable football player in the House, South Side, over the weekend of Jan. 6 the campus over the weekend of De c 9. Father Philadelphia Catholic League. (See cut.) Each (See cut.) The retreat was conducted by Rev. 
Brcnnan's talk was beautifully done and r"=rived 
sdiool in the Catholic League was represented by Cajetan Sullivan, C.P., and Rev. Timothy McDer-many good comments from all who heard Imn. its athletic director and the most \-aIuable player mott, C.P., each an old and loyal friesid of the from its football team. The players themselves voted club. One of the largest groups in recent years at­The Communion Breakfast was held at St. Ber­for the most valuable player, Ernest Miller from tended, 54 in all. Both Jack Montcvcrdc and John nard's Church, Mt. Ldianon, Pa., on De c II, at 
North Catholic High School. The trophy will be McMahon, co-chairmen of this event, worked hard the ten o'clock Mass. Fifty-three menSers of the retained by his school during the ensuing year. The to make the Retreat an ouUtanding success in every club were present and the Mass was followed fary a school first to win three legs on the trophy will way. They wish to thank a special group of seven wonderful breakfast served in the school cafeteria. retain it permanently. Each player received a copy members, who in addition to themselves, made many Everythii^ went off in t^tt ^ shape, and the mem­
of Frank Leahy's new bfiok and each athletic di­phone calls to organize reser\*ation5 and plans— bers wish to thank Jakm MrMahoa for doii^ most rector received a copy of Francis Wallace's new Fritz Wilson, Carl Link, Hugh Gallagher, Engeae of the work connected with thb functicm. book. Coyne, Neil G^one, George Kingsky and Regis 
Father Joseph Lonergan, pastor, made a shore Lavelle. 
"Father Mahoney, our chaplain, told us some address at the breakfast. Father Vince Brenaan re­very interesting facts about the Medical Missionary A new chapel is being erected at SU Paul's Mon­ported cm the progress of the Almnni Amocxation* Sisters. astery, and the Retreat Group will make a dona­and Father Cajetan SaDivaa, CP. , of St. Panl's 
 us tion sufficient to install one of the stained-glass Retreat House, the guest ^>caker. I k driivrrrcl 
"Jim Leonard, Villanova football coach, told was about some of the highlights of his first season at 
windows as a memorial. a short talk on "Retreats" and showed intrrestlas  sdbject. Jack 
Villanova. The Wildcats had the best record in the The annual Christmas Dance was highly success­motion pictures on the same Moote­
vcrde arranged for the speaker kad the motion ^c ­Philadelphia area, eight wins and one defeat. Our ful this year and received good comment from club 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

turcs, and thc>' added materially to tlie success of the function. 
The television parties Iirld for the Nortli Caro­lina, Iowa, and Southern California games finished up the club*s activity in this regard for the foot­ball season. These functions were enjoyed by all attending. Jack Barry at Dutcli Henr>-'s Restaurant gave the club excellent cooperation in making ideal arrangements and providing delicious buffet lunclies. Don Martin, Geoi ^ Kingsley-, and Regis Lavelle deser\'c a special word of thanks for their faithful­ness in general supcr\*tsion of these c\*cnts. 
Dean James F. McCarthy spoke before the Pitts­burgh Advertising Club at tlie Hotel Roosevelt on Nov. 15. A packed house heard a live-wire address on basic principles in advertising, with special ref­erence to outdoor advertising. Several club repre­sentatives greeted Dean McCarthy on this occasion. 
Francis Wallace* former president of the Alumni Association and well-known writer, ^^as a guest of the dub last Oct. 5. He was in Pittsburgh to auto­graph copies of his newest book at the Joseph Home Co., and consented to say a few words at the regular weekly luncheon. He outlined in brief the plans and policies of the .\lumni Association^ and emphasized the need to keep up interest and effort in the Foundation, and particularly the new One o! the largest groups in recent yeon. 54 members in alL attended the Pittsburgh Science Building drive. 
Club's annual retreat over the week end of Jan. 6-8. The retreat held at St. Paul's 
—^Bob Fulton 

Retreat House, was conducted by the Father Ctiqeton SulliTan. C.P., and Father Timothy McDennott C.P.. old friends of the club. 
Rock River Valley {Illinois) 
The Rock River Valley Club is sponsoring the proposal for the University Band to appear Easter 
New members of the Saginaw Valley Club arc 

Sunday ni^ht^ April 9, at tlie Sterling Colbcum in ^Valtcr Blanchard, Robert Herrington, ^VUUam Hur-St. LouisSterling, 111. The proceeds from the concert would 
ley, Maurice Tessin, and Robert AVitchger. 
be placed in the club's scholarship fund account. 
The whole family was invited when the St. Louis —Carl W. Dooiao 

TTic club :s also making final arrangements for a Club held its obsen-ancc of Universal Notre Pame mixed gathering of club members for the obser\'ancc Communion Sunday at the Immaculata Church. of the 27th annual Universal Xotre Dame Night, St. Joseph Valley {Ind.) Baby sitters were furnbhed free of charge for the 
April 17. Items planned for the program include a younger members who came along. Breakfast was speaker from the University and the awarding of the ser\'cd after Mass at the Candlelight House. 
Movies of Iowa*s 7-0 win over N.D, in 1940 were 

€Jub*s second scholarship. 
shown at a St. Joe Valley Club smoker before the. The club sponsored its annual trip to the cram­—Paul J. Fry Iowa game here. Among speakers were Frank Leahy, pus for a football game—this year for the Southern Ed Krausc, and Eric Wilson of Iowa. Game tickets Cal game, Nov. 26. and an autographed football were awarded. Ghct 
Sagmaw Valley {Mich,) 
Grant, quarterback for the 1921 team, dcscrHtcd the first game of the Iowa-Irish series. San Antonio
The Saginaw Valley Chib held its obser\-ance of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday Dec. 11 The North Carolina game was watched at a at SS. Peter and Paul's Churcli in Saginaw. About television party in the Indiana Club. Four receivers A social excursion to the S.KI.U. game at Dallas 35 members were present. ' were set up so everbody could get a good view. A was sponsored by the San Antonio Club, J>cc. 3. 
buffet luncheon was sen'cd. North Carolina alumni Jolin A. Bitter, Jr., handled arrangements for the A banquet Dec:. 19 honored the football teams of 
in this area were invited to the party, which was trip. 
the Saginaw Valley Parocliial League, with a tro­
under the trhairmanship of J. N. Perkins. 
phy going to the league champion. Speakers were Coach BiU Earley, Leon Hart, and Emil Sitko. The club once again sponsored the annual civic Schenectady Last fall the club held a rally and buffet dinner testimonial banquet for the Irish M9 football team. Nov. 4, the night before the Michigan State game. (See news section.) Francis Jones was general chair­John Peters will scr\'c as president of the Schenec­The rally was held at the Rolling Green Nitc Club man for the banquet and President Francis Mcsncic tady Club until the next elections just before Um-near Saginaw. TTie day of the game some of the presided. Also sponsored by the St. Joe Valley du b \7?rsal Notre Dame Night. ToTtncr president CTeorge members had a picnic at Pinctum. a short distance was a pre-game smoker honoring the Four Horse­Thmnpsoii has moved to Cleveland to accept a posi­from the M.S.C. stadium. men the weekend of the Southern Cal game. tion with Fuller, and Smith and Ross, an ad agency. 
.\bout 26 members were present for the club's Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday observ­ance. Rev. Edward 0*MalIey, of the Cathedral Parish in Troy, N. Y., was speaker. Bill Leonard chainnanned the affair. 
The Christmas Dance was Dec. 28. . . . Among recent grads from the Schenectady area are Myles Duffy, Jim Laskoske, Tom Landig, Bob Ekel, and 
Did Kirk. 
Scranton 
Tlie beginning of a Scranton Notre Dame Scliolar­ship Fund was made this year with the contribution of $500 by the club. A local resident will be the beneficiary of the scholarship, which ivas raised by the awarding of ten pairs of tickets as prizes to the N.D.-North Carolina game. There will be an annual endeaii'or by the club to raise a similar amount. 
The telc\-ised broadcast of the Southern Cal game was attended by the group at an inn outside of Scranton. 
There was a Christmas social at the Scranton Country Club for members and their wives or friends. 
Members received communion for all the war de­ceased Notre Dame alumn! on the Sunday nearest the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. 
Lous J. Finske is now the president of the Para-

Th Notre Dame Qub of Peoria held one of its fall meetings in the Pabst Brewing Cc's mount Theatres, Inc., in this region, following the 
separation of the jointly ou-ned Comerford-Para­
new **33" room. The Pabst sign prominently di^loyed in this shot ol the meetiag has 
mount interests. 
no connectiott with the fact that Frank Murphy is public relations counsel for Pobst —Tony Webber 
Volume 28, No. 1, January-February, 1950 
South-Central Wisconsin 
The club's ladies auxiliary (made up of members' wives) treated their spouses to dinner and an evening's entertainment Oct. 19 at the Park Hotel in Madison. Mrs> John Brennan headed the com* mittee for the affair. 
Universal Notre Dame CommunioQ Sunday was observed De c II at Our Lady Queen of Peace Church in Madison. Breakfast followed at the Park Hotel, with ^^ncent Dcppish as speaker. Rod Shau^uiessy was in charge of arrangements. 
The annual Christmas dinner-dance was held Dec. 28 in the Edgewater Hotel. Ken Niglis led the ar­rangement committee. 
Spokane 
The Spokane chapter met for the observance of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday by at­tending Mass and Holy Communion at the Cathe­dral of Our Lady of Lourdes, Dec. II. BreaVfast was served to a record attendance in the Nile Room of the Desert Hotel. 
Chairman for this successful event was Clare Keanu who had Armonde Albo as toastmastcr. Wives of the Notre Dame men were presented with orchids. 
Rev. Maurice G. Flaherty, dean ot education at Gonzaga University and N.D. alumnus, presented an enlightening talk on the liberal arts and science. Bill Frasier, Gonzaga coach, spoke on the contro­versial Notre Dame-Washington game. 
Seated at the speakers table were club president and Mrs. John O'Neil, Father Flaherty, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Frasier, Mr. and Mrs. Albo, and H. J. Brosnahan. 
.\lso present were Mr. and Mrs. B. J. Lcnoue, past president Arthur J. Waldron, James Lynch, Mr. and Mrs. Kearns, Thomas A. E. Lally, John Micluud, Jim Presley. Thomas Gerraughty, Mr. and Mrs. ^VUliam B. Horn and Mr. and Mrs. Vincent Slatt. 
Toledo 
During the recently completed football season, the Notre Dame Club of Toledo held a series of ttvice-monthly luncheon meetings in the Commodore Ferry Hotel. Average attendance at the meetings, which were pretty well confined to Notre Dame graduates and former students, was about 30. 
Guest speakers at the luncheons have included the Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, editor of the "Catholic Boy," and Eddie T. Jones of the Toledo "Blade" sports department. 
Wlliam J. Syiing, '42, scr\cd as chairman of the Toledo Club's luncheon club program this year. Richard J. Kopf, '49, was secretary. 
Forty Notre Dame alumni and wives turned out for the Toledo celebration of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, De c 11. Members attended the 
9:45 o'clock high Maw at Holy Rosary Cathedral in a group. 
.\ Communion breakfast was held after Mass at The Hillcrest. Bob Kopf, '48, chairman of the pro­ceedings, introduced the guest speaker, the Rev. Joseph T. Lannon, S.J., of Gcsu Parish, Toledo, who spoke on the religious spirit needed in today's voung Catholic men and women. Toledo's mayor, Michael V. DiSalle, who received an honorary LL.D. degree from Notre Dame in January, 1949, also attended the breakfast. 
The Toledo Club's annual Holiday Dance was held Dec. 29 in the Grand Ballroom of the Com­modore Perry Hotel. 
Tri-Cities 
The Tri-Cities Club held a luncheon for Notre Dame students, their fathers, and club members Dec. 29 at the Rock Island Arsenal Golf Club. (See cut.) 43 people turned out for the affair. 
.A club party was held the night of Nov. 2, at­tended by 80 husbands, wives, and sweethearts. A cocktail party preceded. a smorgasbord and the awarding of tickets for the Iowa game. 
Oo Sunday, Dec. 3, the club received communion in a body at St. Anthony's Church in Davenport. 
Breakfast and a short business meeting followed at the Blackhawk Hotel. 
The wives of the Tri-City alumni met for lun­cheon at the Short Hills Country Club in East Mo­line. Mrs. James C. Galligaa and Mrs. Myvoa Murphy were hostesses. 
Triple Cities 
The Triple Cities Club has lost the services of its vice-president, John RcardcMif 42, who has been transferred to Jersey City to assume new duties as chief accountant for the Erie Railroad. 
Regis McNamara, '33, has been appointed city engineer for the city of Binghamton. 
Frank Leahy spoke in Binghamton Jan. 10 before a gathering of 1600 people. Alumni report Frank made a tremendous impression on his audience. 
Twin Cities 
The officers presiding during the year 1950 are as follows: 
Tom Hart, '28, president; Paul McDcrmott, '22, vice-president; Bob Voglcwede, '29, vice-president; Bob Bach, '48, secretary; Mike Keegan, 41, treas­urer. 
After the usual summer and early fall inactivity tlie Twin City alumni met at the Fort Snellmg Army officer's club in Minneapolis for their second annual fall party. Dancing and a buffet supper was on the agenda. A great time was had by all who were present. 
Dec. 3 a football stag party was planned in con­junction with the N.D.-S.M.U. game. The party was held at the Jacob Schmidt Brewing Co. in St. Paul. There was a very good turnout and many new faces to brighten the event. Of course, the excitement of the game took predominance over any "bul sessions" that may have been incited. 
The annual Notre Dame Communion breakfast was again held at St. Thomas College in St. Paul on Dec. 11. A good attendance was had consider­ing the sleeU storm that was raging outside. 
As this is wTitten, all of our club energies are now directed toward the annual Notre Dame Christ­mas Ball being held at the Radisson Hotel xn:un ballroom, Dec. 28. 
—Bob Badi 

Wabash Valley 
The ^Vabash Valley Club's Notre Dame Commu­nion Sunday was held in Lafayette on Dec. 11. 
Under the general chairmanship of Balfe Wagner, about 30 members and their wives met for Mass at 8 o'clock at St. Mary's Cathedral in Lafayette and attended communion in a group. After services, the group congregated at the Fowler Hotel in Lafay­ette for breakfast. 
At that time, president Ken Laws advised the group that our annual business meeting would be held at the Fowler on Jan 18. At the business meet­ing we will elect our ofiBcers and take up aay boa­ness for the coaung year. It is also at this tiiae that the various coounittees are appointed to aerve during the year. 
The tumont for our Communioa breakfast was small bat cnconr^ing, since so many of onr mem­bers reside oatsidc the dty limits of Lafayette. Balfe Wagner and his committee deserve a round of praise for their work on the meeting. Other mem­bers of the committee were Richard J. Howdl and 
F. D . WatKm, alumni, and Ted Bumbleburg, Jr.. 
and W. E. &hn, assooate members of the cli^. —Bin Rn^e 
Washington, D. C. 
On De c 28, the club held its annual dance in honor of our campus students from this area. The dance was held at the Carlton Hotel and about 250 people were present. Joieph Gall and his staff did a great job to make this affair both a finawial and social success. 
On Jan. 6, the club held an honoray luncheon for Lcoa Hart upon his arrival in onr town and another guest at the luncheon was the great Jim Thorpe. 
Then in the evening, Frank Ideally, Leoa Hart, and Emil Sitko were awarded national trophies by our Washington Touchdown Club and the No­tre Dame alumni here reserved a table ^ for the affair. 
Plans are being formed now for the biggesc and best Universal Notre Dame Night in the history of our club. Wc are in hopes that some of the school officials will visit Washington at that time and help us make this project the best in the country. 
Our luncheon meetings every Tuesday at the Touchdown Club are an important part of our club function now and arc faithfully attended. 
The club's Communion Sunday observance was held in the chapel at Holy Cross College. About 135 members were present to hear the Rev. Jolm 
J. Cavanaogli, C.5.C., president of the University, speak at the breakfast. Father Cavanaugh also cele­brated the &fass. A number of fathers of Notre Dame students were the club's guests at the affair. 
The club's annual Na\y game rally drew Notre Dame and Navy alumni from all over the Washing­ton area. The Naval Academy band played for the rally, and Father Cavanaugh was a guest. Ar­rangements were handled by Walter Sbnt. 
During the football season Washington alumni saw a life-size television projection of the Tulane game (with about 175 present) and held a radio party to listen to the Michigan State contest. Vice-president Tom Flysn arranged hotel reservations for about 35 couples attending the North Carolina game. 
Twenty members gathered to say the rosary for Jim Harding, '48, who was killed in a Washington auto accident De c 10. 
NOTES: 
J. Haivey Daly, cbsurman of the club's place­ment committee, has already found positions for six 
Forty-three alumnt students, and their falhMS. tvaed out for the Iti-CStr Qnb's Innch­eon Dec. 29 at the Rode blcmd Anencd Golf dab. The dub hopes to aoke the lundieoii on aimaal ofiair. 
Committee members and featured guests at the first annucd Notre Dame-Enights of Columbus Football Night in Williamsport Pa., are shown above. L. to r.: Fronds MeUen« Thomas H. Bedmond, Quarterbacks Bob Williams and John Mazmv Fjroole CL Hayes, Guard Steve Oracko, John B. Willman and Louis P. Mardi. 
recent graduate*. . . . The "Great Books" project, directed by Gerry O'Brien, has been so successful that membership is now limited. .. . Refreshments and movies for every meeting arc seen to by club president Fat Gorman. . . . The club reserved a table at the Touchdown Club luncheon, Jan. 7, to welcome Frank Leahy, Emtl Sitko, and Leon Hart, w*ho received national awards from tlie group. 
Williamsport 
The Williamsport (Pa.) Notre Dame Club and the local council of the Knights of Columbus staged a Notre Dame Football Night De c 28. 
Bob \^^lliams, the talented N.D. quarterback. 
was special guest of honor and main speaker for the evening. He was joined by two teammates, Steve Oracko and John Mazur. Steve lives at Lazu­ford. Pa., and John at Pl>-mouth, Pa. 
Afo\-ies of the N.D.'Michigan State football game were shown. Special guests at the event were all area priests and football coaches. 
Frank C. Hayes, president of the William^Mrt Club and John B. IVUImami, secretary-treasurer, cooperated with the K. of C. in setting up the event for which Willmann was master of ceremonies. Spe­cial tribute was paid to Father O'Conod], WIHam 
R. Downs, and Anthony J. Stopper, all monogram 
winners and members of the Williamsport club. —Jack WiUiiiaiia 
Major Points in ND's Faculty Pension Plan 
Inaugurated on Sept 1, 1947, at a cost of more than a half million dollars to the University, the retirement plan for the lay faculty has now been in eflfect for two yean. 
Because the plan is so significant in the life of the newer Notre Dame and because it is virtually unknown to alumni, the ALUMNUS is outlining below the major points of the retirement arrangement. 
1.
 The plan is in the form of a retire­ment annuity contract with the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association. Each contract is between the individual partici­pant and the insurance company. 

2.
 Participation is required of faculty members when they have completed one year of service in the University and have attained the age of 30. (Completion of the preliminary service period is not required for the participation in the plan of a fac­ulty member who comes to Notre Dame from an institution where he has partici­pated in a similar plan and who holds a retirement annuity contract). 

3.
 In general, lay faculty members are to retire at the age of 65. At the discre­tion of the President of the University, ex­tensions of service beyond this normal re­tirement age may be made for definite periods not to exceed one year each, but 


no extension can postpone retirement be­yond the age of 70. 
4.
 The University and the individual faculty member each contribute to the plan five per cent of the latter's regular monthly compensation. 

5.
 Upon his retirement, the University expects to pay a monthly pension to each participant in the plan who has passed the age of 30 on the effective date of the Plan (Sept 1, 1947). The monthly pension amounts to one per cent of the regular monthly compensation of the participant as of Sept 1, 1947 for each year of service after the college year in which the age of 30 was attained and prior to the effective date of the plan. 


(This provision is of course intended to provide additional retirement income for all those retired faculty members who were on the faculty and past 30 before the plan went into effect It was to supply Aese "past benefits" that the University initially contributed more than a half million dollars). 
During the school year 1948-49, a total of 194 members of the faculty participated in the Retirement Plan. Since the plan has been effective for only two years, it has not so far been applicable to any retired faculty member. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Alabama Senior Wins Rhodes Scholarship 
Herman Hardy Hamilton, Jr., senior at 

the University from Montgomery, Ala., has 
been awarded a 1950 Rhodes Scholarship, 
according to an announcement from the 
Selection Conmiittee of the Rhodes Schol­
arship Trust 
Hamilton, who entered Notre Dame in 

1946 as the Meehan Award Scholar from 
Alabama, will graduate this June with a 
bachelor of arts degree in political science, 
with magna cum laude honors. In October, 
he will enter Oxford University, England, 
where he plans to study jurisprudence. 
In 1948, Hamilton received the Chicago 

Tribune silver medal for proficiency in 
naval science, and last year he was chosen 
for the American Legion Auxiliary Award 
as the outstanding midshipman in Notre 
Dame's unit of the Naval Reserve Officers 
Training Corps. 
Hamilton is the second Notre Dame 

student in two years to be honored by the 
Rhodes Committee. Last year, James J. 
Greene, a graduate student at the Univer­
sity, was named the Rhodes Scholar for 
Newfoundland. 
'Bunch of Coconuts' Sends Rrst Nigerian to University 
Notre Dame's first Nigerian student was enrolled last month, thanks to a "lovely bunch of coconuts." 
Michael Udo Akpan was awarded an overseas scholarship to the University by the 16 villages which make up his local Clan Council in Nigeria, West Africa. To raise funds for the grant, the coimcil pro­hibited the collection of coconuts from all palm trees in the area for a month, after which harvesting was permitted only upon purchase of a special revenue stamp. A 
MICHAEL UDO AKPAN 

month's proceeds from the stamps x&s enough to send Michael to Notre Dame. 
The 24-ycar-old student, who had long set his sights on coming to the University, will concentrate on history and education. Teachers are few in Nigeria, and Michael intends to use his education to help his people. "It is they," he says, "who have sent me here." 
Volume 28, No. 1, lanuary-Febmary, 1950 
e a IIImm 
Engogements 
Editor's Note: the ALUMNUS extends its sincere apologies to Miss Irene Stachura and William E. Scaalan, '42, for attempting to engage them in the November-December issue. Actually, Miss Stachura is engaged to Thomas V. Powers, also *42. 
This month's engagements are; Miss Joan Reback and Joseph S. CosU, '49. Miss Delores Lechtanski and James Fritsch, '50. Miss Jo Ann Hertel and Thomas F. Hanlon, '49. Miss Sherleigh Rathbun and Dick Hackman, e.x-44. Miss Jean Florence Dowd and Matthew V. Kier­
mn, '39. Miss Virgina Therese Vanderbosch and Bernard 
J. Powen, '49. Miss Peggy Ryan and Charles B. Prescott, Jr., '48. Miss Patricia Crowe and John B. Randall, '48. Miss Josephine M. Halzbaucr and Albert J. Sant­
angelo, '49. Miss Rose Frances Serge and Francis J. Sieraw­sU, '48. Miss Patricia Czolgosz and Raymond J. Steiner, 
'30. Miss Jean Phelan and John H. Terry, c.x.45. Miss Marilou Stockman and Carroll B. Tredcr, 
Jr., '49. Miss Kathryn £. Mcrkcrt and William J. TuUy, '48. Miss Georgians Wroblewski and Richard E. Zaw­locki, '49. 
Marriages 
Miss Virginia Walsh and WUiam J. Braun, '48, Cleveland, Ohio, Oct. 15. 
Miss Carolyn Morin and William C. Brown, '49, Chicago, Oct. 26. 
Miss Marguerite Anne Golden and James J. ,B>Tne, Cheshire, Conn., Nov. 19. 
Miss Alice Jane Hastings and William E. Carrico, Jr., '44, Denver, Colo., Oct. 15. 
Miss June Mary Callow and .\llan J. Qark, '43, Bronx, N. Y., June 25. 
Miss Jeanne Rcmlinger and James H. Clarke, '48, Delphos, Ohio, Jan. 10. 
Miss Georgia Schencwcrk and James D. Crow, e.x-46, Dallas, Texas, Nov. 5. 
Miss Helen Noblet and Thomas M. Cunningham, '45, Gladstone, Mich., De c 29. 
Miss Ruth Bender and John C. L. Dense, ex-46, Cleveland, Ohio, Oct. 10. 
Miss Mary Louise Hairston and Felix Doraa, IH, e.x-46, Dallas, Texas, Aug. 6. 
Miss Charlotte Ann Kelly and Daoid J. Hagen, '44, St. Paul, Minn., May 14. 
Miss Irene Rose Chikar and Leo J. Hoffman, ex-46. South Bend, Jan. 7. 
Miss Dorothy O'Connell and Jakn E. Kdly, Jr., '47, Sept. 26. 
Miss Marita Oppenheim and Frauds E. Lartia, e.x-44, Tuscon, Ariz., Nov. 26. 
Miss Frances £. Weaver and Dominic J. Bioflb, '48, South Bend, Jan. 28. 
Miss Marie Thomas and Edward R. Mnnay, '41, Cleveland, Ohio, Sept. 10. 
Miss Phyliss Yoder and William B. Myen, '49, South Bend, De c 21. 
Miss Nancy Branton and Robert M. Ncvrgard, '48, Dcs Moines, Nov. 12. 
Miss Joan Marise Morgan and William K. O'Brien, '43, BronxviUc, N. Y., Nov. 19. 
Miss Joan Melody and Elmer H. Ostenaeyer, Jr., '49, Notre Dame, April 17. 
Miss Rosemary Arata and Dr. Joseph A. ^ppa­lardo, '47, South Bend, Jan. 14. 
Miss Loannc Casey and Harry A. Quinn, Jr., '49, Oak Park, III., De c 26. 
Miss Margaret McQuaid and Stepben B. IVotvist, '49, Champaign, III., Feb. 4. 
Miss Dorothy Krog and Robert M. Rogers, '43, Stillwater, Mich., Jan. 14. 
Miss Catherine Patricia Lawless and Paul J. Rooney, '48, New York City, Nov. 26. 
Miss Lcnore Olson and Annigcr H. Sommors, '42, Escanaba, Mich., Sept. 10. 
Miss Betty Thode and AVilliam A. SwransoD, '47, Chicago, June 25. 
Miss Joyce Patton and Paul R. Wanvig, '48, Har­risburg. Pa., last summer. 
Miss Dorothy Jcanette Gardner and Earl E. fVhiting, '48, South Bend, December. 
Miss Esther Moran and Amaud J. Wilsotl* '46, St. Louis, Dec. 27. 
Born f o 
Mr. and Mrs. Herman S. ^Utman, '41, a son, Nov. 25. Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Ames, '45, a daughter, Julie Elizabeth, Dec. 30. Dr. and Mrs. Paul H. Anderson, '38, daughter, Letitis Eileen, Dec. 30. Mr. and Mrs. Calvin G. Aulisio, '49, a son, Jan. 
1. Mr. and Mrs. Richard Barbier, '40, a daughter, Nov. 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph D. Becker, '50, a ilaughter, Jan. 15. Mr. and Mrs. Andrew J. Boyle, a son, Nov. 17. Mr. and Mrs. Lynn Bryan, '47, a son, Brian Kev­in, Dec 24. Mr. and Mrs. Anselm Burkhart, '44, a daughter, Jan 8. Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Dilkm, '48, a son, Jan. 28. Mr. and Mrs. Richard C. Dilu, '43, » daughter, Jean Margaret, Oct. 11. Mr. and Mrs. Frederick C Doutd, '43, a daugh­ter, Oct., 1919. 
Mr. and Mrs. WDbcd T. D>>ycr. '22. a ma. John, May 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. Hewlett T. Fagaa. '47, a danriiter. Kathryn EUen, Oct. 13. 
Mr. aad Mrs. Robert C. Fcarbe3er, ex-47, a daughter, Jan. 6. 
Mr. aiKl Mrs. Joba Feanoa, >43, a daughter, Nov. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. Gordna L. FoRstcr, '43, a daugh­ter, Claire Marie, Nov. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joba C. Fixcmaa, a son, Nov. 18. 
Mr. and Mrs.Engeae S. Gcoder, '41, a dangler, Molly Marie. 
Mr. and Hn . Joba B. George, Jr., '47, a daugh­ter, Ann Elaine, Nov. 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. George Geyer, '39, a daughter, Mary Aime, Nov. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joba G. Heauaiag. '34, a son, Robert Francis, Nov. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Henog, '43, a daugh­ter, Susan Ann, Aug. 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. Doaald Hidwy, '38, a daoriiter. Dec 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Hackey, '41, a daughter, Karen Marie, De c 13. 
Mr .and Mrs. JanK> Bonghtoa, a son, De c 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. Aostia G. Joaes, Jr., '44, a ion, Robert Edward, De c 30. 
Mr. ami Mrs. Jaaus B. Keany, '33, a soa, Daaiel Thomas, Nov. 5. 
Dr. and Mrs. Kaymnad A. LaForge, '42, a daugh­ter, Kathleen May, De c 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jamei Labey, '38, a son, Jaa. 9. 
Mr. and Mis. Robert McBride, '47, a daughter, Dec 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. WilGam H. MeCUk^b, '27, a daughter, De c 31. 
Mr. and Mrs. Merle E. McDoagall, '30, a son, Stephen James, Jan. 16. 
Mr. aad Mrs. Joba W. McKeaaa, '38, a daugh­ter, Nancy Elizabeth, Nov. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joaepb B. HcNertbacy, '42, a soi:, Patrick. Matthew, Oct. 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. WilEam E. MiOs, a son, Nw . 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. WOEUB H . UitiA, '33, a son, Joseph Edward, De c 24. 
Mr. anr Mrs. Samnd Molter, Jr., '43, a son, Thomas, De c 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. JanKs N. Motscball. '39, a son, James Norbert, Nov. II. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joba L. Masmakcr, '20, a dan ^ ter, Jean Ann, June 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joba G. CCoaadl. . Jr., '44, a daughter, Kathleen Claire, Nov. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. Vni W. CCoaadl, '43, a son, Mark Thoaias, De c 28. 
Mr. aad Hn. Lee IbtUa, ex-35, a dau^ter, Jan. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. Loaii L. Fbdra^ Jr., '42, a daughter, Mary Therese, Jan. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charies S. Reddy, '39, a daughter, Mar\' Lucinda, Nov. 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. Louis J. Reilly, '40. a daughter, Kathleen Frances, Nov. 25, 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Riordan, "45, a daughter, Carol Maureen, Nov. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. James Sackingcr, '48. a daughter, Jan. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond L. Schlagcr, '49, a son, Lawrence Michael, Oct. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. Dennis J. Scully, *47, a son, James Laurence, De c 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Scully, Jr., '41, a daugh­ter, Anne Elizabeth, November, 1949. 
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Shcrr>', Jr., '36, a son, James Joseph Sherry, III, Jan. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard .•\. Stack, '48, a son. June, 1949. 
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel C. Stewart, '43, a daugh­ter, Marjoric Jean, Dec. 28. 
Mr. and Nfrs. Cornelius J. St>-crs, '48, a daugh­ter, Cecelia Thcrcsc, May 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. Harold F. Tchan, '48, a daughter, Maureen, Jan. 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward F. Theis, '36. a son, Tim­othy Robert, Nov. 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. James C. Thomas, '44, a daughter, Kathrv-n Ann, Dec. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. Da\id M. Thornton, '48, a son, Jan. 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul R. Toland, '43, a son, July 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. Wlliam H. Tucker, Jr., '40, a son. Brian Edward, Nov. 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. Wlliam H. VoII, '48, a son, Jan. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. EdH-ard F. Voorde, e.\-36, a son, Dec. 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. ^Villiam J. Waldron, Jr., '44, a daughter. Mars- Ann, Nov. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph G. Walsh, '43, a daughter, Nov. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. Da\id E. Waller, e.\-46, a son, 
Jan. 9.' 
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald J. Welch, '44, a son, Ger­ald Thomas, Aug. 2. 
Mr .and Mrs. John L. AVlggins, Jr., '43, a son, John, Dec. 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond M. ^Mlliams, *4I, a son, Miciiael, Nov. 7. 
Mr. and Iklrs. Robert H. WoodH-ard, '47, a son, WUIiam Darrell, Nov. 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. Herman Zitt, '48, a daughter, Jacqueline, Jan. 27. 
Deaths 
The Rev. John A. XfacNamara, '97, honorary 
president of the Alumni Association and a widely 
known and respected priest, died Jan. 4 at ^fount 
Clemens, Mich. 
Father MacNamara, a native of Milford, Mass., 
attached to the Archdiocese of New York, had for 
the last few years resided at Notre Dame and at 
the St. Joseph Sanitarium in Mount Clemens. He 
was ordained by the late Cardinal Farley in 1901 
but continued ill health made it impossible for him 
ever to take a permanent assignment. 
Father ^lacNamara, one of the two alumni known to have seen all the Army-N.D. football games, is survi\'ed by his sister and two nephews. Funeral services were held for him at St. Mary's Churcli in Milford, with many almnni and friends of the University present to pay tribute. 
No alumnus, clerical or lay, ever contributed an active loyalty and interest greater than Father Mac­Namara. Long a friend of the priests and brothers of Holy Cross, Father MacNamara was an apostle of the laymen employed by Notre Dame. To a Urge circle of these men he was over the years a stimu­lating friend and an active champion. Mutually en­joying the designation of "MacNamara*s Band,''' his 
Bev. John A. MacNamara, '97 
\isits invariably constituted occasions for refreshing all of the ideals which—in a down-to-earth practical approach—he endowed Notre Dame and the oppor­tunity to be a part of it. 
Ordained ahead of his class so that he might die a priest in the years immediately after his departure from Notre Dame. Father MacNamara bore the cross of ill health for a half century. No one can estimate the good which his Christ-Iikc combination of sacri­fice and zeal did through these years. 
EdH-ard L. AUering, '25, died Dec 29 in High­land, Ind. Mr. Ahlcring, who formerly lived in South Bend, is survi\'ed by his wife, a son, a daugh­ter, a brother, and four sisters. His son, Dand, is an undei^raduate at the University—Class of 1953. 
At the time of his death Mr. Ahlering w*as mak­ing plans for a gathering of chemical engineering graduates at the Class of '25 reunion next June. 
Judge John J. Buckley, '20, died suddenly of a heart attack in Youngstown, Ohio, Jan. 24. Judge Buckley, widely known in Ohio political circles and one of the Youngstown Diocese's outstanding Catho­lic lay leaders, had recovered from another heart attack only two years before, but refused to heed warnings, he continued a rigorous schedule of xp­pcllatc court hearings, meetings, and communion breakfasts. 
Long interested in youth. Judge Buckley was a leader of the Youngstown Parochial League, doing the largest share of the work for Youngstown's Parochial League Day program, at which Frank Leahy was main speaker. He was active in many otiicr church and cliaritable organizations and in great demand as a lecturer before civic and reli­gious groups. 
Judge Buckley was a veteran of World War L He ser\'ed on the Ohio State legislature from 1939 to 1944, often fighting heaw opposition to push social legislation. Elected by an ovenvhelming ma­jority to the seventh district Ohio Court of Appeals came in 1948. Before that he had been a judge of the Youngstown municipal court and president of the YoungstouTi Council for a Fair Employment Practice Commission. 
Speaking of Judge Buckley's death, a Youngs­town '^Vindicator" editorial said: 
"Youngstown is saddened by the sudden death of Judge John J. Buckley, and the members of his family have everyone's sympathy in their grief. . . . A man of strong personality. Judge Buckley made himself a power in this community. He bad only recently made a successful campaign for election to the 13-county appeals district, and would have un­doubtedly gone further had he been spared. . . . He was deeply concerned with the troubles of the little 
The Notre Dcmae Alumnus 
man, felt that industry and business carried too much weight in the social scale, and sought earn­estly to redress what he thought was an improper balance. . . . Because of his attractively human characteristics. Judge Buckley's death strikes many as a personal loss in an unusual way. . . ." 
Judge Buckley is survived by his %%'ifc, a daugh­ter, and two sons. 
Qyde W. Archer, '40, died Sept. 20 in the Vet­erans' Hospital in Huntington, W. Va. Death came as a result of complication of a hip wound suffered in the Battle of the Bulge. Mr. Archer, taken pris­oner by the Germans during the battle, had been ill since release from the army. His condition, diagnosed as bacterial cndocarditus, failed to re­spond to treatment. 
Mr. Archer is sur\'ived by his wife, two sons, and two daughters. 
John W, Duffy, cx-10, died of injuries suffered Dec 19 in Elkhart, Ind. He had apparently been struck by a train while crossing a four-track right of way. Mr. Duffy, employed by the Christman Construction Co. of South Bend, was a letter win­ner in track and football at the University. He Is survived by two sons. 
Franos W. Durbin, LL.B., '13, nationally known attorney and Ohio Democratic party leader, died after a three-week heart Illness Dec 10 in Lima, Ohio. Durbin, who attended evcr>- Democratic con­vention for the past 44 years, was dclegate-at-largc to the 1936, 1940, and 1944 meetings. He took an active part in the fight to keep the vice-presidential nomination from Henry Wallace in 1944. Mr. Dur­bin had been a practicing lawyer for 36 years. 
Mr. Durbin is survived by his wife, his mother, 
three daughters, and a brother. 
Joseph A. Fitzgerald, '29, a deputy collector of internal revenue for eight years and an air force sergeant during the war, died of uremic poisioning and pneumonia Oct. 23 In Cleveland after a two-week illness. Mr. Fitzgerald, a native Clevelander, was a member of the Knights of Columbus and the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. 
He is survived by his wife, a brother, and two 
sisters. 
Albert Gall, a student at Notre Dame in the 
1880's and veteran interior decorator, died at his 
home in Indianajolls Dec. 17. Mr. Gall headed his 
ou-n interior decorating firm, a pioneer in Indiana­
polis, till his retirement in 1917. 
Interested in politics, he served as a member of the Indianapolis Board of Public Safety from 1913 to 1917. Mr. Gall was also a member of several clubs and deacon of the Second Presbyterian Church. He is surxivcd by his wife, two nieces, and three grandchildren. 
Qtarics E. Griffin, a "prep" at Notre Dame in 1920, died Nov. 30 in Washington, D. C , after a long illness. He had been news editor of the AVash­ington "Post" and a 'former New England news­paper man. 
Two Notre Dame graduates of June, 1949, were 
killed and two others injured in an automobile 
accident in Washington, D. C , Dec. 10. The dead 
were Jama C. Harding, Jr., a law student at the 
University of Pennsylvania, and George T. Giragi. 
Injured were Joseph T- Maloney, a law student at 
Georgetown University, and Frank Finn, Jr. 
Hardings parents are Dr. and Mrs. James C. 
Harding, of Washington. Giragi's are Mr. and Mrs. 
Joseph Gerwitz of Holbrook, Ariz. Giragi had gone 
to Washington for training in the FBI and was 
serving as a member of the capitol police. 
Brotber Jarlath O'Brien, C.S.C., *3I, superior of 
the Valatie, N. V., juniorate for brothers in the 
Congregation of Holy Cross, died Nov. 17 in Al­
bany, N. Y., just as he was about to undergo an 
operation. 
Brother Jarlath took his first vows in February, 1926. He taught at Cathedral High School in In­diana^mlis, at Msgr. Coyle High School in Taunton, Mass., and at Notre Dame High School, Biloxi, 

Volume 28, No. 1, lanuary-February, 1950 
Miss. He was appointed superior at the Valatie juniorate In 1946. A brother and two sisters survive. 
Kev. Martin J. Jordan, pastor of St. Patrick's Church, Olyphant, N. Y., for the past seven years, died suddenly of a heart attack Jan. 7. Father Jor­dan attended the University in 1903 and completed his studies at the seminary at Mt. St. Marys' Col­lege, Emmitsburg, Md. 
One of the most widely respected priests of the Scranton Diocese, Father Jordan served at eight parishes during his career. He was ordained in 1916. Father Jordan is survived by two sisters and a brother, James D. Jordan, '07. 
The ALUMNUS has only recently learned of the death of Brothei' Justin, C.FJC., '26, in May, 1947, at St. Joseph Preparatory School, Bardstown, Ky. 
Re\-. Patrick McBride, C.S.C., a member of the faculty of Kmg's College from its founding in 1946 until ill health forced him to give up teaching in June, 1948, died in the Community Infirniar>- at Notre Dame, Jan. 16. 
Father Mcfiride was ordained a priest in the Con­gregation of Holy Cross in 19U. He spent his en­tire career teaching English and foreign languages at Notre Dame, St. Edward's University, Holy Cross College, and King's College. For several years he was registrar here. Surviving are ti%o sisters. The Rev. James W. Conncrton, C.S.C., vice-president of the eastern province of the order, celebrated a requiem Mass for Father McBridc in Sacred Heart Church. Burial was in the community cemetery-. 
James M. Monagfaan, '37, died in \Vatcrbur\-, Conn., late last year. 
George J. Schott, '47, died after a brief illness on May 24, 1948. The ALUMNUS has just received word of his death. Mr. Schott, a January, 1947, graduate, was a veteran of World War H. He serv­ed with the 20th Division in Europe. He was living in Elmwood, Mass., at the time of his death. Mr. Schott is survived by his wife, his father, two sisters, and five brothers. 
Arthur W. Stace, an 1896 graduate of the Uni­versity, editor of the Ann Arbor *'Ncws," and a leader in Michigan journalism for more than half a century, died Jan. ID in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Mr. Stace had been under treatment for a coronary thrombosis, but he had been reported recovering. 
Mr. Stace, who was 74, had been active in the newspaper business since 1897, except for an eight-year period as director of the utilities information bureau of Michigan. From 1913 to 1923 he was managing editor of the Grand Rapids "Press." He was named editor of the **News" in 1935. At the time of his death he was also chief of the Ann Arbor bureau of Booth Newspapers. In addition to his newspaper editing, &fr. Stace was widely known for articles on conser\'ation and Michigan recrea­tional facilities. 
Commenting on Mr. Stacc's death. Senator Ar­thur Vandenberg of Michigan said: 
"Mr. Stace was not only one of my longtime journalist colleagues, but also a lifetime friend. His career as a journalist was marked with intense in­tegrity and devotion and his contacts with his friends were always sources of joy and inspiration." 
Tributes came from many other Michigan poli­tical leaders, journalists, and educators. Surviving Mr. Stace are two sons and a daughter. One of the sons, Vincent A. Stace, is a 1928 graduate of the Uni\'ersity. 
Cyril J. Tliisty, '41, was killed in an airplane crash Nov. 20 near Coldwater, Mtch. Mr. Tlusty, a chinchilla rancher at New Berlin, Mich., was flying in his single-engine plane to a business engagement in Dublin, Out., when the plane fell on a farm near Coldwater. Mr. Tlusty had taught school and coach­ed at Birmingham, Mich., for three years before moving to New Berlin. 
Survivors are his wife and two daughters. 
Alfred R. ^Vhite, who attended the University m 1908 and 1909, died July 20 in Fremont, Ohio. Mr. White, who is suriived by his wife, had been in poor health for some time. 
The ALUMNUS has just learned of the death of John H. Zubcr, '31, on March 23 in Wayne, Mich. Mr. Zuber, a native of Saginaw, served in the U. S. Naval Reser\-e from 1943 to 1945. He opened a hardward business in Wayne in 1947 and operated it until his death. Surviving him are his wife, a son, and a daughter. 
The ALUAINUS extends sincere sympathy to John 
J. Beyer, '49, on the death of his mother; to the Rev. Thomas J. Brenaan, C.S.C., '23, on the death of his mother; to Vincent A. Stace, '28, on the death of his father; to James E. Campcou, '30, on the death of his father; to Frank Carideo, '31, on the death of his father; to Morgan E. Cartier, '13, on the death of his mother; to the Rev. Joseph Ciecka, C.S.C., '38, on the death of his mother; to the Rev. Albert F. Cunningham, C.S.C., '07, on the death of his sister; to Albert J. De Loram, '25, on the death of his father; to George H. Duffy, ex-28. on the death of his mother; to the Rev. Joseph 
R. English, M.M., '37, on the death of his father; to Leonard M. Hess, '25, on the death of his mother; to James £. Houghton, *49, on the death of his mother; to Aaron H. Huguena^, '22, on the death of his brother; to J. R. Klee, '47, on the death of his father; to Edward P. Langenfidd, '31, on the death of hb wife; to Carl A. hook, '48, Thomas ^V. Look, '48, and John O. Look, '49, on the death of their father; to M. Harry M0ler, '10, Raymond T. Miller, *14, Donald C. MOIer, '25, and Gerald W. Miller, '25, on the death of their moth­er; to Michael A. Needham, '25, on the death of his father; to the Rev. Raymond M. Norris, G.S.C., '25, on the death of bis uncle; to James F. Odcoi, '16, and Brian S. Odem, '17, on the death of their father; to Howard V. Fhalin, '28, on the death of his father; to Warren P. Roqne, *48, on the death of his father; to Alfred N. Slaggert, '21, on the death of his mother; and to \raiiam J. Stewart, '43, on the death of his mother. 
Personals 
Before 1900 

One of the two living members of Notre Dame's first football team. Colonel Frank Fdir of Loois­ville, Ky., came through a recent Mayo Clinic checkup "very satisfactorily." Colonel Fehr played center for the 1887 varsity. The only other survivor of that squad is Gene Mdady of Omaha, Neb. 
7900 — 1904 

When the O'Brien Paint Corp of South Bend re­ceived a 75th anniversary plaque from its sales or^ ganization last December, the token was accepted by J. J> Crowley, sr., chairman of the board and 1901 grad. The plaque, bearing the names of 55 members of the firm's sales force, was presented "as a symbol of devotion to a great firm on its 75th anniversary." J- J. Crowley, jr., '31, is preudent of the corporation; 
7970 

Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, St. Catherine's Caiurch, 3443 E. 93rd St., aeveland, 4, O. 
From FATHER MIKE: "Red" Maier »«Tote after the New York game telling about the game and his meeting with •*Foot" Ruel and "Bill" Draper—well known to 1910 men. "Dreamy" Scanlon came into the picture. A note from E. L. McBride—"Birdie" to some of US—carried greetings from Pittsburgh. Along with the greetings came a post card picture taken in 1907 and on location in front of Sorin Hall. The picture reading left to right showed: "Birdie," your class secretary, George Emmett Attler (R. I. P.), "Dreamy" Scanlon, and "BSlr'' Ryan. We shall 
have some copies nude and send a few of tkcm to those who mi^t be iatensted. Reading the ALUH-NtJS brought Pittsbingh l»ck into the pictne. 
Greeting from Jaws T. Foler (Chicac*) leccircd a warm wekome in these parU. Jim is planning « • the 19S0 reunion. U be makes it and I Rta a CM­trd of my aiches and arteries, that mil aeaa at least two of us. Jim suggests inviting Father De­launey, C.S.C., who made a valiant thoo ^ aooe­what futile effort to teach us some Frendi. 
Welcome to Lea C. McEtray who come into the picture this month. Offices at 400 lfa£soa Ave, New York City, N. Y.—impressive, eh wot? Leo makes three for next Jtme and we can always count on the Wilmington contingent from ihi Pimt's. Two McEIroy sons atteixled Notre Dame. Best petsooal good wishes to Leo who, diminutive as he was, carried me throu^ Father Scbeier's Latin. 
Bin Sdait t (Portland) attended the Navy game. Bill and "Red" Blillcr were lining up some candi­dates for June. Uyies Sinnot is oa the list. 
Falber UatUs, C.S.C.—our 1910 Specialist m Church Liturgy—^writes an interesting account d his work and his occasional visits at South Bend St. Joseph's Hospital with Fatbcr Edjar iBtdk and Father Peter Hcbctt both of whom are on the campus. That accounts for three more reunion prospects. 
A word from Steve Herr added a touch of happi­ness to the pre-Ghristmas experience. We can count on "Steve" for the June program. 
Jobn Daffy—track star and football star back in our days—%vas killed at a railway crossing in Elkhart on December 19th. May we » k his friends and 1910 men to hteathe a prayer for the repose of his soul. 
Now we close for the time being, happy to as­sume that you all enjoyed your Christmas—perhaiis a white one. In our Church program we like a touch of green—especially the long kind. 
Clyde Bfoosiard of Beaumont, Texas, received a letter from FScrrc de Tjmden in Brussels, Belgium. Broussard got in touch with de Lnnden after Bis address iqipeared in the last issue of the ALUMNUS. It was their first correspondence in forty years, de Lunden's letter, relayed to us, said that he had served in a armored car section of the Belgian army during the first world war and later saw ac­tion in trench warfare. During the second world war Pierre and his three sons served in the Bd^an undcrgnmnd movement, surviving near-starvataoQ to help expell the Getmaas. 
1912 

Toast master for the South Bend Tribvae ban­quet honoring its aU-star high school football team was Jotcph F. Doaahne, president of General Build­ing Materials, Inc. Red Grange was pnnci{ul ^ssk* er at the banquet. 
1914 

Ira W. Hnriey, 231 S. LaSdle St, ClucagD, m. 
From IRA HURLEY: At this time there is not much to report oa the activities of the Class of 1914. I have recently had occasion to exchange letters with Ray Blillcr and Ckurlie Vanghan. Our class was fairly well represented at the an­nual Natural Law Institute. Among those present were Frank Hogan, Ray Idler, VttfWft Dmaing and CkarSc Vangban. I want to give you the correct address of Frank' 
J. KirdmaB, which is: 1701 Race Street, Denver, Colo. I received a very long and interesting letter from Frank on May 27, 1949 just prior to our 3Sth Re­
union. Frank was imable to get away for the re­union. 
My oldest son, William J. Hurley, the study of law in the Law School at the Univer­sity oa February 1, 1950. 

Recendy, I had ocrasioa to be in Eipa, IDiaois, on business and while there had the oppwtunity of having a very pleasant vint with Vinceat lleCaMhy. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
I9I5 
James £. Sanford 509 Chciry St., Winnctka, Dl. 
Ftom JUI SANFORD: The news of Ray Eidienlaub's death was a shock to all Notre Dame men, particularly to our class. Our central steering committee, organized to plan the 35th aniuvarsary reunion, had elected Ray as the natfariml chairman only a few da>'s before. As a tribute to ISich we will not ^point another national chairmaa. On behalf of the class we extend our sympathy to the Eichenlaub family and promise spec^ remembrance in our prayers. The passing of this beloved member of our class is a touching re­minder to all of us that alumni reunions offer a unique and precious opportunity to meet and hear old friends and we hope all \v\\\ make a special effort to be present next June. 
We will quote agun, as we did before the 1940 reuaion, a verse from a poem written by the late president of Notre Dame, Rev. Charles L. O'Don­nell, which a^ipeared in the 1915 "Dome": 
**Some day returning out of wa>-s mere u-ide, Agua the pleasant waters I may walk beside; Seek in old haunts and old accustomed places, Seek^and not find *tbe old familiar faces*-" 
Wniiam J. Shea of Chicago, and Circuit Judge William M. CanoU, 345 Dacy St., Woodstock, III., have been added to the centnU steering committee, which now consists of them—and AI Kuhle, 127 S. Sunset Ave., I^Grange, III.; L. D. KeesLar, 8133 Ben­nett A\-e., Chicago, 111.; Norman Ranstcad, 2154 Thorwood Ave., Wilmette, III. and your secretary. Joe Bj-me, 828 Broad St., Newark, N. J., and Joe FamH, 32 N. 27di St., Camp Hill, Pa., will form the Eastern Committee. John McShane, 5156 Col­lege Ave., Indian^oUs, Ind.; Bill Mooney, Box 1616, Indian^olis, Ind., and Rev. Kemdt M. Healy, C.S.C., Corby Hall, Notre Dame, Ind., will consti­tute the Notre Dame committee. Galiin Hudsoa, Box 353, Memphis, Tenn., will cover the South, and Emmett Lcnihan, 1405 Hogc BIdg., Seattle, Wash., and Jaaei O'Donnell, 635 Granite St., W., Butte, Xtontana, will cover the West. 

Here are a few notes on Bill Shea, 1136 Oak Ave., Evaastoo, IlL—possibly the only retread of World War II from our class. In June, 1943, Bill Joined the Corps of Engineers, Real Estate Section, United States Army, and sen-ed in the European Theater, Panama, and the Philippines until July. 1947. He lives at the above address with his wife, two sons—BlHt Jr., (a veteran of W. W. II) and Dick—and three daughters—Elenorc, Marion, and Irene. He's building manager of the Mercantile Exchange, 306 W. Washington, and has kindly of­fered his beautiful office (room 520) as headquarters for the reunion. 
All the Chicago committee members and Judge Carroll are pledged to attend the reunion, and witli­in the next few weeks every member of the class will receive letters from someone on the committee so we c:an publish the names of those ^vho expect to be present. Many of your friends who Avere at the University with you, but \vho did not com­plete their courses, are being invited to join us. 
Members of the central steering committee reserv­ed a spedal table at the Notre Dame Club of Chi­cago dinner for the annual election of officers Jan. 16 at the Drake Hotel. ^Vhen you answer letters from members of the committee, be sure to include some biographical material; we will be delighted to publish whatever we can. 
Robert J. Sanford, son of your secretary, an ex-GI from the Navy, will receive his fi.S.C. in June, 1950. We believe it would be a pleasant experience for our sons and other relatives who are Notre Dame men, to be with us at the reunion. \Vhat does the class think of the idea? 

"Newsweek" for De c 19 carried a photo of our distinguished classmate, George Shuster, president of Hunter College, New York, playing the lead role of a flophouse owner in a Hunter scholarship bene­fit production. This indicates that George is as ver­satile as ever. One of Joe Byrne's early assignments is selling George on coming to our 35th reunion. 
Jim Sanford helped conduct discussions on ad­vertisii^ as a career for the second annual Chicago Area Career Conference, held at Illinois Tech. Jim U merchandising nunager for the Chicago "Sun-Times." 
79T6 
Grovcr F. Miller, 612 Wsconsn ATC, Racine, Wis. 
J. H. Sylvestre, an outstanding Crookston, Minn., lawyer for 28 years, has been named judge of Min­nesota's 14th judicial district by Governor Lather Youngdahl. Sylvestre, a veteran of World War I, served twice as Crookston city attorney. 
A graduate of Professor Cooney*s first journalism class, Louis P. HaH, reports from Parts that he and his son are engaged in the establishment of an ex­port book business. At present Harl's son has some 12,000 volumes, including many first editions and rare items. Harl's address is 92 Ave. Marigny, Fon­tenay-sous-Bois (Seine), Paris. 
I9I8 
George £. Harbcrt, De Kalb County Abstract Co., Sycamore, H L 

From GEORGE HARBERT: In answer to the many letters that have been received, John I<cmmer is not retiring from active business. He is not sifJc, but he does feel some of the rest of us ought to work a little. So let's show John we appreciate his efforts by keeping our 0(d­umn open. QareBce H. Brown, C.E., *I8, is one on the engineers planning the construction of two cjqiren­wa>'s across the city of Detroit which are among the major projects of this kind in the United States. Clarence has been with the Michigan State Highway Department since 1920 and lives at 17405 Lohser Road, Detroit 19, Michigan. Charid Call, Ph.B., Joum., *18, has recently changed to the business administration department of his periodical. Up until now, he has been in the editorial department. Charley lives at 225 Patterson Ave., Hasbrouck Heights, N. J. Now this is a 100 per cent report from Cadillac Hall (remember it?). How about a 100 per cent from Walsh next time? 
I9I9 
Theodore C Rademaker Peru Foundry Co., Pern, Ind 

T. C. RADEMAKER writes with a plea: ''Your new secretary has not had sufficient time to contact each member of our class to date, but intends to do so at the earliest possible opportunity. "However, in the meantime, how about dropping me a line about you and your family and any other news and reminiscences about our classmates or fellows we knew in school. 1*11 need your letters 
to keep this column interesting for all of us—he^! help!" 
1920 
Leo B. Ward, 458 Spring St., Los Angeles 3, Calif. 

From LEO WARD: IMPORTANT—DONT FORGET—THIRTY YEAR REUNION! Weekend following Commencement-June 9, 10, 11, 1950. CLASS REUNION CHAIRMAN: Edward J. llce­han. South Bend "Tribune,*' South Bend, Indiana. SECR£TARY:Leo B. Ward. 438 South Spring Street, Los Angeles 13, California. COMMITTEE MEMBERS: Rer. Arthur J. Hope» C.S.C.; Rev. Francu P. Goodall, CS.C; Viaont F, Pagan, Mishawaka, Ind.; MidiacI Edward Doiaii, South Bend, Ind.; William Frauds Fos, Indianapo­lis, Ind.; Harry A. Ridi%nne, South Bend, Ind. 
The response to the letter enclosing the class roster has been most gratifying—if for nothing else than to note the great success attained by so many representative members. We have bank prcndents, and vice-presidents, judges, sports editors, congress­men, a lieutenant goversor and, not the least, » vice pro^^cial of the Holy Cross Order, and a dumcel­lor of a diocese, to mention only a few, 
J. Paul LoMca is president of tne First Baak of Okarche, Okla. He writes that he has a aepheir graduating from Notre Dame in June and plaas to be present at the reunion. He has a son and a dai^ter, and not the least of his accomplishments is the building of a hospital in Okarche which has attained national publicity in "Household," a na­tional magazine. 
J. Lylc Mnsmaker writes, "I plan to be with you at the class reunion next June." Lyle has straightened out the uncertainty as to his child— it's a girl with red hair. Why he mentions that to me I don't know. My hair has long since ceased to be red and little of what I formerly had Is left. 
Father Frands P. GoodaU, CS.C , is pastor of Christ the King Church tn South Bend. Father Frank writes that not only will the middle of June be our class reunion but June 17th will be the Silver Jubilee of the ordination to Priesthood of Father Fcank, Father James Ryan, CS.C , and Fadwr Fraads Nowakowsld, CS. C He also writes that Frank Farriagton is a member of his parish, and he is working to see that all with whom he may come in contact attend the reunion. 
Father Jim Coonerton, CS.C , is the vtce-proWn­cial of the Holy Cross Order with headquarters at the Vice-Provincial House; Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Father Jim writes that he will not be able to be present at our reunion due to the fact that the first com­mencement at King's College, of which he was first president, will be held at the time of the reunion. However, he sends regards and advises that Father KB Havey, CS.C , is a member of the faculty of King's College and Father Thomas Daffy of our class is stationed at Stonehtll College, also under the directorship of the Vice-Province. 
A, E. Finnnp writes, **I shall make every effort to be present at the clan reunion fa 1950. 
Joe O'Hara (The Honorable Joseph P. O'Hara. M.C., Member ol Congress, that is) writes from Gleocoe, Minn., that he is involved in lawsuits and his campaign for re-election, but only unfore­seen circumstances will prevent him from being at the reunion. 
One of the miKt interesting replies was from Cbsdk Overton. From the letterhead it appears that Chick is president and treasurer of the S. E. Over­ton Company at South Haven, Mich. He writes that he sees Gene OToofe at St. Joseph, Mich., once in a while and also sees Jimmy Wheeler at MilM'aukee. Chick stattcs that he will be looking forward "to the reunion next Jime." 

Rev. Wmiam H. Reeves, now pastor of the Church of the Immaculata, at St. Louis, advises that the alumni of the American College of Rome %rill likewise be having a reunion at the same time set for ours and he doubts his ability to attend both. 
I received a very informative letter from Ed Kramer and he is planning to be present for the "thirty-year binge." He writes that Wolfgan (A for Amadeus) Hemridi is a chemist with the East­man Kodak Company and has been for more than twenty years. His address is 76 Valley View Cres­cent, Rochester, N. Y. He also states that he sa^v^ AI IJdilnBg the past summer, and will definitely be present at the reunion. 
A letter received from the judge's chambers of the Tioga County Court, Owego, N. Y., indicates that Fraads J. doliessy is the county judge and surrogate. He writes, "The list ef members of the Class of 1920 is most valuable in that it brings to mind many happy memories, gives rise to curi­osity about the whereabouts and activities of the fellows and tends to emphasize to me the need and duty of getting active and interested in mat-ten concerning Notre Dame. I am planning to attend the reunion in June. Until then, best wishes and regards." 
From the State of Illinois, the office of the Lieu­tenant Governor, the Honorable Sherwood Dhcoa, I received a long letter. Sherwood will be with us. 
In the meantime I am continuing to receive notes from various alumni and as they come in I will gi\'e a report. 
Once again, plan to be present at the thirty-year reunion and, as a reminder, the Alumni As­sodatioa does not require the payment of dues; however, to entitle you to the privileges of an ac­tive member of the Alumni Association an annual contribution to the Notre Dame Foundation in such amount as you feel justified in contributing is in lieu of dues. So it behooves you to keep active in" alumni affairs and maintain your membership in the form of your contribution, regardless of amount. 
An office for vocational opportunity for Negroes has been established in Portland, Ore., through the 
Volume 28, No. 1, lanuary-February, 1950 
efforts of the Very Rev. Tboous J. Tobin. The office, financed by Catholic funds, was opened in April, 1947, to assist Negroes in finding employment and to guide Negro youth in picking careers. Father Tobin's work, affiliated with the Blessed llfartin League in Portland, was described in a recent is­sue of "The Colored Harvest," a publication of St. Joseph's Society of the Sacred Heart. 
1927 
Dan W. Duffy, 1101 N.B.a Building, Cleveland 14, Ohio 

Frank Cot^falio, All-Amcrican captain of Notre Dame's 1920 football team, was guest speaker for Butler University's annual gridiron banquet. Cough­lin is now with the attorney general's ofHce of Indiana. Butler's varsity and freshman teams and its cross-country squad >vere honored at the banquet. 
Catholic University's Cardinal Gibbons Medal has been awarded to Dr. Carlton J. H. Hayes, LL.D., '21. Dr. Hayes, recently retired Scth Low professor of history at Columbia University, received the medal in recognition of his work as teacher, dip­lomat, historian, and author. Dr. Hayes was award­ed Notre Dame's Laetare Medal in 1916. Besides Notre Dame, he has received honorary degrees from Rfarquette and Niagara universities and Williams College. 
1922 

Gerald Ashe, 39 Cambridge St, Rochester 7, N. Y. 
From KID ASHE: Among the 1922 out-of-tn\vners who attended the Southern Cal game were Dan Young, Bill Castellini, Ralph Coryn, Hunk Anderson, Tom McCabe, Jerry Dixon, Joe Farley, Harold MtXee, and the Mc­Dermott brothers— George and Paul from St. Paul. Mian. There must have been many others in attend­ance. Dan Young is more than slightly agitated to know that very few of the *22 men saw any of their classmates at the game, and he is all for having an established meeting place for them at future football games. Let us hear from some of the other boys on this matter. Dan also reports some very sad news. He tvritcs that Julia Mahoney, widow of our beloved class­mate, Leo, suffered an injured back in a fall and is in a cast. Mrs. Mahoncy has raised five children in a manner which would make any of us proud. Her address is 2070 Juniper Rd., South Bend 17. Air-minded football fans of '22 are Aaron Hu­guenard, who traveled to Dallas for the SMU game with flocks of Canada geese, and Harold McKee, who rode a private air buggy to the Southern Cal game. The latter chewed off most of his fingernails landing in the Western Springs, III., vicinity with many prayers and no lights. A friend of Harold's was oivner and pilot. Harold's son accompanied them. Morgan Shccdy, who was located in Detroit with the Great Lakes steel fleet of Camcgie-IIIinois is now back in his home city of Pittsburgh—still with C-L His home address is the Fairfax Apartment, 5th Ave., Pittsburgh 13. On the subject of new addresses, Dan Young has a new one, too—4507 Marvine Ave., Drexel Hill, Pa. Also Ed Bailey, who lives at 151 Highland Ave., Jcnkintown, Pa. We have word that a son of Cyril (Cy) Gaffney, a '22 of beloved memory, is headed for Notre Dame this coming September and that Mrs. Gaffney may visit the Walter Stuhldrehers of Indianapolis at that time. Chuck Foley died 13 years ago this January. There are three married sisters—two living in the home town of Bums, Ore., and one in Washington, 
D. C. Chuck's widow and children, a boy 18 and a girl 13, now live in Portland, Ore. 
A note on the Christmas card received from George and Phyllis and Jim Hene^ian of Chicago indicates that they are having a Mass said for the intention of those who were so kind to the Hene­ghans during George's illness last year. 
The Bill Dtvycn of London, Ohio, have added an­other name to their Christmas card—it's John Dwyer, bom May 19, 1949. Congratulations to the parents. Peg and Bill. 
HaroM Weber, like the rest of us, missed most of the '22 men at the USC game. He will probably 
Brother Lawrence Joseph, FJ5.C wiUmarit his Golden Jubilee as a Christian Brother on March 18. Brother Lawrence,. iHio re* ceived his master's degree from the '25 summer session, has taught at Christian Brothers schools in eleven midwesteni cities during his fifty yeors of service* For the post ten years he has been treas­urer ol De la Salle Kgh School in Chi­cago. Plans are being made to commem­orote his jubilee. 
become a charter member of Dan Young's get-together club. Harold and wife Lucile eiqiected to move into South Bend after Christmas—from their delightful home In the Michigan lake country. 
Sherwood Dixon, lieutenant governor of Illinois, his brother, Jerome, '22, and Chester (Chet) Wynne, '22, now comprise the law firm of Dixon, Dixon, and Wynne, with offices at 231 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. 
William A. Castellini, vice-president of Dinerman and Co., Inc., Cincinnati, has been elected a mem­ber of the board of directors of the National Con­ference of Christians and Jews, for the term ending 1952. Castellini, who was active in making arrange­ments for the Third Natural Law'Institute, recently discussed practical applications of public relations techniques for public relations students in Notre Dame's journalism course. He analyzed various pub­lic relations campaigns in which he has participated since graduation from the journalism course in 1922. 
Joseph B. Sbau^inessy was elected president of the Kansas City chapter of the American Institute of Architects at its annual dinner meeting, accord­ing to word sent by Frank Grimaldi, who is also a member of the A.I.A. 
Edward J. Dundon writes that he has a daughter at St. Catherine's College in St. Paul and two boys in high school. He saw Ed Doraa several times while Doran was on a hunting trip in the Iron Mountain, Mich., area. 
Dean Clarence Manion of ND's College of Law was among 19 men and organizations who received Freedom Foundation awards from Northwestern University last month. The winners were cited for "their contributions to the American way of life" during 99th anniversary ceremonies at Northwestcra Jan. 28. Dr. Manion received his award for his graduation address to the 1949 class of Font Bonne College, St. Louis. 
Two football coaches from the class of '22 had new jobs this month. Eaii L. (Curiy) fjwhn e had left his 30-year coaching reign at Green Bay to take over the long-coachless Chicago Cardinals. Dr. Eddie Anderson, meanwhile, failed to come to con­tract terms with the University of Iowa and signed a five-year agreement with Hatf Cron. It was a return to aa old sceae for Aadersoe; be Ateted the Crusaders* gridiron fortunes from 1933 to 1991. 
1923 

Flml H. CastKT, 1305 W. Aili^taa Ave, St. Fkal, Miaa. 
Sottth Bead*! M»nh of Dimes campaign had the help of tbe Rev. JoKph A. MfAIBMcr, CS.CI. pM­tor of St. Patrick's Chmdi. Father UcAUister joia­ed with a rabbi and a mini^trr in pluggiag the drive from a Michigan Street booth. 
1924 

Rev. Thomas A. Kellr, CJS.C CaTanaoiA Hall, Notre Dame, Imi, 
FoRcst G. Cottca has been transferred from Noc^ foUt, Va., to .Kansas City, Mo., by the National Catholic Community Service. Cotton wiH serve as field .representative for the commmiity service in seventeen midwestcm states. His son. Jack, is a ju­nior at Notre Dame. 
1925 

Jobn P. Horiey, Hie Toledo Fftriiv Fanitaic Co., Toledo, O. 
Fra« JOHN HURLEY: 
It is good to hear from some of the fellows after years of silence. Henry J. "Spiked AJiaw writes: "It's been a long time since our paths have croned althou^ I do sec your name in the ALUMNUS. I live in Scarsdale and have a dat^ter thirteen, and a son nine. Am Eastern Manager for Jones Jk Lau^din Stq>ply Company, which is a sidwidiary of the Jones & laiighlin Steel Corporation. Tbe only two members of the class I see are J^ck Sheckm and Bfac Md^addca» the latter belongs to tbe same golf clid> I do. Bin Bdl of Rochester drops in tbe office about once a year. I most certainly eiqpect to be at our Reunion in June and sincerely hope most of the Twenty-fivers ytiSl be back." 
"S^k ^ sent hia dollar for Masses for our class­mates, as did George Lndwig, Joe Bn^e, Jack Shrffcan and Ben Kcstiag. Just pin a "green back" on a note about yourself, or send it all by itself— as Joe Barke diet "Here's my dollar for the fond for Masses—best regards.*' Thanks, Joe, and I lean­ed frmn his stationery that he is practicing law and his address is 177 Lenox Rd., Brooklyn, N. Y., and in case you want to call -him, his 'phooe is Ingersoll 2-3641. 
Jokn Bartley and Bill Hurley wrote letters before the ALUMNUS came out about our fund for Masses. John is with Reynolds SL Co., 120 Broadway, and writes: "I thought I would see you at the NJ>.­North Carolina game and could report to you ni person on my progress in rounding-up onr New York clai^^»^*f for the Reunion. Those wbom I have contacted so far all told me they would be in attendance. Later on I intend to write Adi^ Walsk and see if he and the New England delega­tion will join us with reference to getting a pri­vate car on the New York Central—with best per­sonal wishes to you, and wishes for the success of our Retmion." Thanks, John, and I think your idea of getting the eastern delegation together for the trip is splendid and could be adopted by other sec­tions of the country. 
Hold your breath boys .. . here's one from 3aA. thcckin of Sheehan-Zari (Stodebaker Motors) New Rochelle, N. Y. "I have been in touch with you induectly from reading our class notes m the .ALUMNUS. You certunly have been a futhfol­patient classmate. **^ake" McAdaau and I have tentatively planned to make the Reunion and un­less something of a very drastic nature interferes, we will be there. Mac is a fellow West Chesterite, having a chateau in nearby Scarsdale. Geovfe Vcr­gasa, one M our town's energetic coundhnen, and n successful insurance executive in New YoA, is my other t9Z5 neighbor. He's busier than Ray GiMainff­kam was during our last year—if that's posdMc! After many yean of corporation sales activity, I de­cided to move in for myself, came tvar's nid. We have a modest aetrvp here in New Rodtelle, and so far have been fairly haqipy about it alL John, 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

I'll be looking fonvard, God willing, to seeing you at the Reunion in June.** Swell, Jack—it looks like the East will come through. 
George Ludwig is Superintendent of the Michigan Consolidated Gas Co. of Grand Rapids, Michigan, according to his letter-head, and George writes: "Here is my buck for the '25 Masses—a mighty fine idea! Ed Ahlering and I have made plans to press the "Back in 50" movement among the chem engi­neers and believe we should get nothing less than 100 per cent agreement. I got a tremendous kick out of seeing the fellows who attended the smoker before the Southern California game. It was sort of a preWew of what will happen next June.'* George, if you work on the engineers it will be swell, because with such cooperation wc arc bound to have the "bcstcst with the mostcst" as far as twenty-fiver reunions go. [Ed.'s note: Ed Ahlering later died suddenly. Sec "Deaths," this issue.] 
My namesake. Bill Hurley, writes on Equitable 

Life Asso. and Society stationer>-: "V'ou arc correct 
in attempting to reach me here in Saginaw. I just 
completed twenty years in the insurance business. 
We just celebrated our eighth anniversary, and 
though wc are not so fortunate as to have any 
family, the eight years have been good ones. As I 
have been looking forward to the twenty-fifth re­
union for some time, I certainly intend to be there 
next June. I think that the class dinner on the 
campus and the plan of bringing in as many of our 
old prefects and profs as possible are grand ideas. 
"I don't have any ideas at present, but I do 

feel that a simple request for ideas from the class 
win be sufficient to bring in more than you can use. 
I'd just like to suggest that plenty of time be left 
for gab-fests, as there are any number of fellows I 
haven't seen for the full twent>--five years, and cer­
tainly thetre will he lots to talk over. 
"I just finished writing Jim .Armstrong and told him I had seen John Snakard in New York and is planning to be back, as is Frank Howland, whom I saw in Detroit a month ago. Frank KoM-als, ? doctor here in tou'n has the plan in mind, and Jack Courtney, who gets up from Pontiac is going to be present. I plan to be in touch with several others in the near future and I will be glad to in­form you of their intentions later." 
Thanks, Bill, and if Bob Huriej- can come from sunny California, the three of us who sat together for four years without a scrap, will have plenty to talk about. 
Had lunch with Ray Cunningham last \vcek. He plans to bring his mo\-ies of our five and ten year Reunions, which should be a lot of fun to see. Ray has a Moffctt Studio in the Book Building in De­troit and now his son "Rickey" is a "chip off the old block" Selling photographs during the summer. Rickey is a freshman at Northwestern and again like Ray—is specializing on radio and speech—**do­ing what comes naturally." 
Bill Krider UTites: "I have been with the Brush Development Company of Cleveland, Ohio, for the past five years. I have one daughter who is a soph­omore at Notre Dame Academy in Cleveland, Prior to that time I was .<n law practice. I read Don Miller's letter and feel the same about our class— feel we were the beginning of the *goIden era.* I ^^"^I1 ser^'e on any committee you wish to place me. Enclosing $1.00 for Masses." Thanks, Bill. 
Ralph Heger is sccretar>'-comptroller of Sterling Brewer, Inc., Ex'ansville, Ind. ''Enclosed is my $1.00 contribution for your collection of Masses, Also, it is actual proof that I do read the ALUMNUS and your articles. Many a time I have thought of uTit­ing to you but alwav-s something seemed to come up that caused me to put it aside and then never got to it. 
"In the last few years I have been back to the campus quite regularly—due to the fact I have a daughter who is a junior at St. Mary's. My last trip back was the occasion of the Southern Califor­nia game, and as you know, the "Four Horsemen" and a number of the "Seven Mules" were back and it seemed like old home week. It was sort of a prelude of what can be expected in June. 
"Eddie Polhaus dropped into the office the other day, as he was spending part of his \-acation from his hard work at Ford Alotor Company in his old home tOH'n. I, like all the rest of the 25*ers, am looking forward to a great Reunion this June. See you then.** Glad you will be back, Ralph. I too saw Eddie Polhaus, but only for a quick "hello** as wc dashed for our scats in Lansing at the ^lichigan State game. 
Jim Wrape of Wrape Sn Hemly of Memphis, Tenn., writes: "I am enclosing the dollar Avhich you suggested, which will go for the fund for Masses to be said by Father John Lyndt. It seems that with business and a family, I just haven*t had much time to get around to see any of those who were in our dass. I'll be back in June. We have three little girls, ranging in age from four to twelve years, and they keep us pretty busy." 
Thanks, Jim, your friends w*ill be looking for you 

in June. 
Dr. Fran Kennedy of 1001 Missouri Theatre Build­

ing, St. Louis, Mo., writes: "Just got around to 
As of Feb. 12, 41 members of the dass ha\-e contributed $1,330 toward the Socace Building Memorial Room, proposed as a dass gift to advance the building and perpetuate the memory of Dr. John D. W«be1, '25, AH-American guard and sdence grad. 

reading the November-December ALUMNUS and at your suggestion looked through the N. D. Club of St. Louis roster and found that I was the only one listed from the class of 1925. At present I in­tend to attend the reunion next June, and am look­ing for^vard to it with much gusto. Afy children are three—Larry age 14, Mike age 12, smd Pat age 9— all of whom, I hope, will attend Notre Dame. See you in June—P.S. Praying extra for Bcmie IJ\'er­good.*' Thanks, Fran, and I hope the dollars keep coming in for the Masses. 
Governor Frank Lausdic of Ohio has appointed 

Bernard Kesting to a five-year term on the state 
board of registration for Professional Engineers and 
Surveyors- Kesting, county engineer in Toledo from 
1933 to 1945, is a past president of the Ohio Coun­
ty Engineers Association and an active member of 
the Ohio and Toledo societies of professional engi­
neers. He resigned the county engineer post in 1945 
to become engineer for the Comte Construction Co. 
Another gubernatorial appointment txune to Mu­nicipal Judge Joseph Hou-ard of Indianapolis who was recently reappointed to the bench in Municipal Court Room 3 by Indiana Governor Schricker. How­ard was first appointed to the bench in 1915 as Democratic judge in the bipartisan criminal division of the lower count>- court. 
Bill Mcrrtmaa reports that he will make every cilort to attend the class's 25th-year reunion next June. He expects Bill Bell and Paul DePaolb to be on hand, too. 
Tom Coman, reporter for the Burca of National Affairs, Inc., in Washington ^vas pictured conferring with John A. Stephens, chief negotiator for U. S. Steel, and Philip Murray, president of the United Stechvorkcrs of America, about the recent nation­wide steel strike. 
1926 
John J. Ryan, 1415 W- Thome Ave., C3iicago 26, DL 

From JOHN RY.AN: While this is the '26 column but we're starting with news from a '27er. After all, Andy Sld ^ vas with us a lot longer than he was with them. And his letter c:ame in unsolicited. So remember fello\/s, there's no rule that says you have to wait uctil ^-ou get a card from inc. Tlie address is at the 
head of the column and the mailman makes tA'o calls each day at my home. So send the dope to tue. Getting back to Andy Sleigh, he writes that Andy, 
Jr., and Dick are following the old man's footstirps as sophomore and freshman student managers, re­spectively. That leaves daughter Mary Bergen to keep Andy and Peg company in their Weston, W. Va., home- The latch string is always out and >ou can always be sure of a bath there. Boy, arc tliey clean—four baths on their second floor. Your sec­retary stopped for a day in 1946, stayed three rnd 
still didn't get a shower in each of them. Pat Collins itritcs from Blue Afountain l>ake, N. Y., that he has been in the restaurant business there since 1932. He has two daughters in colLrge and one in high school but has no prospects for the Notre Dame track team. He reports that his brother Dick, operates a boat livery in Blue Moun­tain Lake in the summer time. We'll get all 'Jie dope from Dick in the next issue. In the mem­time, Pat, try to arrange for that second trip to the campus in *51. Do you fellou*5 who lived in the Cardboard lal­acc in *22 remember the first snowfall? As I re­
call, Edward (Nig) Crawford remembers it as the 
first time he saw snow. From Birmingham, Ala., 
Nig UTites that he ou-ns Crawford Boiler and Steel 
Company, finally married in 1938 and while he has 
no children his 25 or 30 nephews and nieces keep 
"Unde Ed" busy. He hasn't seen any '26ers but 
would like to hear from Joe Brou&sard, Chick 
Hunter, Jimmie Cowles, I^nk Conroy and Jim 
Dwyer. 
Bill Dooley, former managing editor, got a 

card request for news. There arc no exceptions. 
When your secretary's name comes up on the list 
"I'll sit right down and UTitc m>'self a letter." So, 
too, the rest of you—answer the cards. Bill, now 
a veteran of 16 years at Notre Dame, writes: 
"It's easier alphabetically, using the "Dome" or 

a dass roster. So we start with Jack Adams, out­
standing upholder of Catholic social doctrine in 
business, who was one of the nominees in the recent 
Alumni Board election. I didn't see Bud Barr this 
fall, but he was up from Chalmers last June for 
the alumni reunion. Getting in training for '51 
no doubt! Bud still looks as though he could knock 
off the hundred in near-record time. 
"I have a letter now and then from Frank Bon, 

a captain in the Na^-y, who is in Washington, 
D. C , in the office of the Judge Advocate General. I saw Fred Clements and his family at the Christ­mas midnight Mass at Notre Dame. One of Fred's daughters and one ot mine \%-ere high school class­mates in St. Joseph's Academy, South Bend. Take note of the high honors bestowed upon Ken Cook, Boy Guidance M.A. in *26, who is in charge of Catholic actirities for the Boy Scouts, at national headquarters in New York City. 
"I know that Dr. Bert Coughlin was up to the campus from St. Louis for at least one of the games this fall, but I didn't see him. Or did I? Reports from St. Paul have Father Bemte Cougfalin con­tinuing in his job as dean of men in St. Thomas College there. You of course read about Clem Crowe all fall. He is now the new pro football coach in Baltimore and has a tough job ahead. As far as I know, Clem, with ten children, tops the class in that regard. Speaking of the Crowes (Ed is still in De­troit) recalls Joe Dicnhart, who is head freshman football coach and assistant athletic director at Purdue. I saw Joe in Chicago in December. 
"Rockford visitors bring word that Bob Doran is 

still in the haberdashery* business there. Bert Duime 
stopped off in December for a visit with his son, 
Pat, a freshman. Bert had been at the baseball 
meeting in Baltimore and told us that he had just 
bought the league team in Salt Lake City. So Bert 
and his family are learing the San Francisco area 
after many years. He will give some time to pro­
ducing (in Arizona and California) baseball shorts 
for television. 
"If the literary department functions properly. >-ou'll read in this issue a re\*iew of Norb Engels* new book, **Man About the House." Norb's oldest is a sophomore here. I had a good talk with £d Failon in New York the night before the North Carolina game. Art Haley has two sons at Notre Dame, a junior and a sophomore. Art's daughter is a freshman at Roscmont College near Philadelphia. 
"I saw Paul Fleming in Youngstown last spring at the 25th anniversary dinner of the local Notre Dame club. Rudy Goepfrich, South Bend, chief brake engineer for Bendbc, was interviewed by the "Scholastic" regarding the work opportunities for mechanic:al engineers about to be graduated. Joe Hem|rfiling and I had time for only a quick hello one Sunday afternoon recently. Joe is still in South Bend. 
"I saw Doc Gelson in New York in November, after seeing him here last September when his son. Jack, a promising trackman, started. Walt Houghton is advertising manager for Calvert's in New York City. At Johannes, after many years in South Bend, now is in Jacksonville, Fla. Dr. Worden Kane, Bing­hamton, N. Y. combines neuro-surgcry and the presidency of the local Notre Dame dub. Harold KIdn, Des Moines bank officer, and Denny O'Neill, Cle^-eland advertising agency executive, had some correspondence recently about an Iowa deal. Denny, Jr., the oldest of six children, is editor-in-chief of this year's "Dome," just 25 years after guess-who had the same job. Ann, the oldest O'Neill daughter, is a freshman at St. Mary's-of-the-Woods, where her paternal aunt is a member of the order. 
"Another *26 Klein, Frank, of the St. Louis "Globe-Democrat," is the father of Keith, present 
N.D. sophomore. I had a brief chat with Hal Kranse, Cbillicothc, Ohio, the night before the Tu­lane game. Hal is a top man with the Ohio highivay department. Father Joe McCartney, long a theology-teacher in Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C , 
Volume 28, No. 1, January-February. 1950 
was on the Notre Dame summer school staff last stmimer. His 'boss' then was another '26 man, Faiher Howard Keniu, vice-president in charge of academic affairs. A priest from Dubuque who was here for one of the games brought \%'ord that Father Bill Green is still on the staff of Loras College, Dubuque. 
^'Charlie Mason's son, Jack, is a N.D. freshman, and bigger than Charlie. Jack was a top high school football player in Indianapolis and Is definitely in­terested in the same sport here. Gerry Morsches, Fort Wayne, slopped in for a chat before one of the home games. And Joe Navarre, Jackson, Mich., attorney* has stopped in scx'cral times lately. Joe is doing outstanding work for the Foundation in Jack­son. 
*"Dan O'Neill was on the campus last June and scouting reports on him have come in since then. Jim Pearson, law man in Flint, Mich., was down for at least one of the 1949 home games. Bill Reid is president of the Hartford N.D. club. Mike Rcd­dittgton, lawyer, was up from Indianar -^lis for this year's Natural Law Institute. Father i^eitn Troche, pastor of St. Ann's Church, Toluca, 111., and Gerry Smith, Kansas City insurance m:in, signed in in the course of the fall. 
*'By letter, and through his nephew, a student who works part time in the Alumni Office, reports come through regularly on VJnce Soisson, Charlcroi, Pa., division manager for the West Pcnn Power Co. Mc Yanrman, Rochester, N. Y., checks in frequent­ly. I haven't seen Art Suder in many a year but Toledo informers say that he still supplies all the flowers for everything. 
"More '26 stuff, strictly non-alphabetical: Eddie Duggan, whose son, Ed, is a freshman, had a large share in the success of this year's Natural Law Institute. Eddie practically gave up his law practice in Newark for a time to promote the Institute, and of course he was out on the campus to participate in it. Father Leo Gorman is vice-president of King's College, Wilfccs-Barre, Pa. Notice those special No­tre Dune paper cups so widely used on the cam­pus? Just another way of getting in a plug for Larry Keefe and Lily-Tulip (adv.). 
".\ Christmas card from John O'Donnell and Opal, still residents of Maysville, Ky. Joe Walsh has spctit many a month in hospitals and is now in the 40 & 8 Com-alesccnt Center, Orland Park, 
III. Drop him a note. "Five Dooley offspring gathered 'round for Christ­mas: Terry, a junior in St. John's University, Col-Icgeville, ^finn.; Mary, a freshman in the College 
of St. Catherine, St. Paul, Minn.; Ellen, Brigid and Martin. 
"Sign-off: keep your eye on that '25 reunion through the neighboring column. Hurley, Cemcy, Armstrong and others are planning tremendous things. '26 has to do even better in '51." 
Theodore J. Wrecklage Is head of the industri^ soap division of Proctor and Gamble in Cincinnati. . . . Herbert J. Burt is president of Herbert Burt and Co., an investment security firm in Chicago. 
Jim Flaherty's address is 92 Westminster St.. Hartford, Conn. .. . J. Norbcrt GCISOQ has be­come associated with the Thompson Brokerage Corp., 51 E. 42nd St., New York, N. Y. . . . 
Ray Durst couldn't make the deadline, couldn't reach my home by telephone (Mrs. Ryan was out Christmas shopping) so his secretary finally reached rac one evening in early December. Ray's "story" reached me a day or so later. Ray returned to hu native Waukcgan where he persuaded Mary Grace Broadbcer to become Mrs. Durst in 1928. Their soo, Ray, Jr., finishes at Fenwick High School in Oak Park and heads for Notre Dame next fall. 
Ray started in tlie steel business then went into the radio business in 1930. The company moved to Chicago in 1934 hauling in the last van—the Durst family, their three toothbrushes and "my Notre Dame diploma (still unframed)." (Wonder how many more of us never got them framed?) The company Ray was then connected with merged vdth Hallicraftcrs Company which is a name well known in radio and telcvbion. Ray is executive vice presi­dent, director and a substantial stockholder. 
There is one fellow ol '26 who never has to worry as to wlierc the groceries are coming from Roman Feldpausch just reaches up on the shelves of whichever of his two Hastings, Mich., stores he happens to be in. And if he doesn't find what he wants he hops into Grand Rapids to the wholesale houses where he is president of one and director of two others. His son, Dick, is a junior at Notre Dame, son Tom a freshman, daughter Anne ex­pects to enter St, Mar}'*5 next fall, while daughter Janet has a few more years in high school. Rome reports seeing Charley Hcintz in Quincy, 111., and Bob Dolezal in Carroll, Iowa. 
From 6459 Kenwood Ave., Chicago 37, III., John GrifHn writes that he is working in the mortgage loan end of the insurance business. He seems to be doing a Httlc photography work for he visited Dr. Tom Leahy for treatment of a bum resulting from getting too close to a photo flash bulb. He also re* ports some time with Dr. George Dolmage recently when George was attending a Chicago convention of eye specialists. I'll bet they re-ran a few races that night! John also reports nmning into that emi­nent barrister, Jim Ronan, now and then in the Loop. 
Speaking of barristers, Irv Hnrwich reports 20 years as follows: public defender, 1928; deputy pros­ecuting attorney, 1929 and 1930; city attorney, Mish­awaka, 1935 to 1939; county attorney, St. Joseph County, 1948 and 1949. A four year "open" stretch 
guests at the Nary Game. Above, raising their banners high, are the boys ond some 
was spent in the Navy. The J.M.S. Bldg. in South 
Bend u where bachelor Irv can be found. 
From St. Joseph Preparatory School at Bardstown, Ky., Bro. Vincent, the principal, reports that Bre. Josti^ C.FJC., M.A., '26, died in May. 1947. Hsy his sou! rest in peace! 
The Chicago Boy Scouts are admirably served by Al Ktrfc, M.A. Boy Guidance, who ts administrative assistant scout executive. He has been with the council for 23 years, is married and has one son, Alan. Loras College, where he got his A3 , in ^24, recently Iionorcd him by electing him president for life of his class. He reports secii^ Ken Cook oc* casionally; Dan Cnlhaae a few times, and JtAn Coatway every few years. 
If the mysteries of automobile transmissions worry you, ask Ben Maliank to explain them. He writes on the letterhead of Chevrolet-S^unwv Transmission Division of General Motors (Saginaw, Mich.) that as chief tool engineer he has been in contact vnth develc^ment of tools and machinery for Chevrolet transmissions. He went to Saginaw in 1936 after gathering some experience in Tiffin, Ohio, and Hanmiond. Ind. Ben was married in the Log Chap­el in 1936 and has a nine-year old son. Jack. 
For 13 years the Bureau of Apprenticeship, U. S. Department of Labor at Harrisburg, Pa., has li»l the able assistance of Bill Moore who is now its Assistant Director. Prior to that time he spent four years as associate editor of Columbian PubUshing Company m Columbus, Ohio, and another four years as secretary to Governor George White of Ohio. In 1931 Julia McDonough said '*Yes" when BiU asked "that question." Bni, Jr. (17); Jack (15); and Jim (3^) call them Mom and Pop. While Bill says he doesn't see many classmates, be does see Chock Mooner in Cleveland now and then. 
Whenever those frigid winds blow up Michigan Ave. or dovm Broadway or whatever *'main stem" you have in your town, think of Izzy IVobst living in Coral Gables and working in Miami. Iz reports that he lost his wife last year (many of you re­member Fran Quirk from Indianapolis). Our deep­est sympathies, Iz; Fran was a sweet girl. But I know that your two sons. Jack and Bob, will have something that will remind you of her the rest of your life. Iz reports that while the Transportation Corps had him stationed in New York he ran into Ed Fallon, Jim Dwyer and Dan (yNdi. Claim ad­justing is Izzy's business. He has found time to be active in N.D. club affairs in Miami having been club president last year. 
Elloa Ridkter reports he is still doing business at the same old stand—U.N.D. Law School, with his specialty the contract field. He is now Professor of Law. He and his wife reside at 218 East Angela Blvd. in South Bend. 
Here is a thought for some of you fellows. The card you get shows a deadline. But do what Joe lUgali did. If you can't make the deadline send your story in anyway. That always gives the sec­retary a running start for the next column. Try to make the deadline, but if you just can't, write as soon as possible. Joe reports that he is vice president of Daprato Statuary Company, 766 W. Adams St., Chicago. He married Eleanor Davis, a sister of Bill Davis, '27, in October, 1928. Joe Ju­nior is a junior at N.D.; Bob was one of Fenwick High School's football stars last fall; Bill is a freshman at Fenwick; Donald, a ten-year-old, and Elouise, a miss of eight summers, complete the Ri­gali family. Joe is a member of the Serra Club of Chicago. He reports seeing John Tnoby, Herb Eg­gcrt. Chuck Collins, and Joe Delia Maria recently. That list of Oak Parkers makes me think it was a Fenwick football game where they met. 
AVhile the cutis do not go out in alphabetical order (the Ryan system skips through the entire roster) the answers as you may have noted do fol­low the alphabet. So we come to the "W*s.*' That brings Seymour Wetsbefger to bat. Another lawyer —how many in our class? Seymour got Ms law de­gree in '28 and has been practicing in South Bend ever since. He and his wife, the former Edith Landy, live at 128 South Hawthorne Drive in South Bend. Of course as a local lad he gets the chance to see quite a few visiting '26ers. And I like the way he ends his letter "and sincerely hope that I sh:Ul be able to attend the 25th Reunion of our Class in 1951." 
And ^rith that note we'll close this. Keep the let­ters rolling to me. 
Once again this year Walter Trohan, chief of the Chic:ago "Tribune's" Washington bureau, invited Professor l^uil Bartholomew's annual student tour of Washington to visit his home. Trohan entertained the group at a buffet supper at which various gov-
The Philadelphia Club had 25 boys from St 
 Joseph's House for Homeless Boys os ite 
of the olumni ready io depart for Baltimore. The alumni are (on the left flank) C fto-vemment ofifidals were to answer student questicms about government t^ration and legislation. 
dehL Father McCaHery. C. Conley. (and on right) A. Dudley, and Chairman Joe Cattie. 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

Pictured above are Prof. Paul Bartholomew, '27, and his political science students on their between-semesters trip to Washington, being entertained by Walter Trohan. '26 (see Qass Notes), head of the Washington Bureau of the Chicago TBIBDNE. Upper left in the picture is General Bonner Fellers, and center standing Mrs. Trohan, Senator George Malone (Nev.) and Walt 
1927 
Joseph M. Boland, Radio Station WSBT, South "Bend, Ind. 
From JOE BOLAND: 
Where to begin . . . that's the problem: with a kaleidoscope of memories from a wonderful foot­ball season, thanks to Frank Leahy, his staff, and a great squad of Notre Bamc mca. 
High-light of the season for '27 football men was the rcmilon of the *24 National Championsliip team here Nov. 26. Tom Hcardcn, and Gene "Red** Edwards—co-captains in *26—WQTC on hand; Tom from his St. Norbcrt College, De Pere, Wis., foot­ball coaching job; Red from his sales job in steel industry in Pittsburgh. Joe Klaxuell, now Phiico Company refrigeration division director of Indus­trial relations in Philadelphia, also here; so was Harry 0*BoyIe, General Motors Che^Tolet Di\dsion, Chicago office; and John McManmon, Lowell, Mass.; Dick Hanousek, Minneapolis; John Wallace, Calu­met City, 111. A memorable reunion, believe me! 
Next was visit—^just completed—to Joe Benda, football coach at St. John*s University, CoIlcge\*ilIe, Minn.; his wife, Gertrude, and four swell clilldren. Ben is suffering from Hodgkins' disease, but coached a predominantly sophomore eleven this past fall almost to the Minnesota College Conference title. Greatest game in history of that league saw his Johnny eleven fight College of St. Tliomas before succumbing, 28-27, in a contest St. John's had been slated to lose by 28 points. Phenomenal play of St. John*s was a direct reflection of the great heart and courage Joe is displaying in his own fight against Illness—and it's an inspiration to visit him, to see how wonderful he is in adversity! His team is equally wonderful—made up of college men you would be proud to call your friends! 
Drop Benda a line or two at the above address: but don't expect an answer—mail is piling up on him and his wife: they love to get it, but can't ansu'cr all of it, naturally. Ben will be happy to hear from you, I know. 
While in St. Paul, Minneapolis, and other Kflnnc­sota points .. . I had grand—but too short—\-isits with Frank Mayer, now living in Stillwater, ^linn., where he's doing public relations work for N^orthem States Power Co.; and Art Sullivan—track man, now in the insurance field, as a big and very successful adjuster. Art's first-born Is almost ready for Notre Dame: a great track man like his daddy, and good football player at Cretin High School, St. Paul. 
Dick Haywtuek lives at 3 Red Cedar Lane, Min­neapolis, and—brothers—you should sec that Han­ousek castle: the guy's got a complete, full three-room log cal}in In his basement—built into the side of a hill, to which pheasants and such come up for free hand-outs! 
Tom O'Ccnnor, from O'Connor's Landing, Belle Center, Ohio, writes that Jack Patton ivas elected president of the Mitchell National Bank in Mitchell, 
S. D., following the death of his father two years ago. In the past year. Jack has been president of the Mitchell Chamber of Commerce, also. \Vhich re* minds me that Jack—in corresponding with a South Bend banker friend of mine—said: "Joe Boland has quite a time with that class of '27: they all have broken arms or at least lost their ability to write and Inform him of their activities." How right Jack Is! 
Paul Benitz dropped In on £d De Clercq recently: Paul Is living in California now, near Pasadena: sorry I don't have the exact address. Ed resides at 814 £. Madison St. in Scuth Bend. Another South Bender, Father Kfaurice Rtgley, C.S.C., is at Portland University in Oregon. 
And there, chlllun .. . Is the conglomeration of notes, items, and scattered bits from here and there. Although this won't reacli you before late Januar>- at the earliest. It's being written before Christmas .. . so, I hope that—by the time you reacli this—you will all have had a wonderful holi­day season! 
Thomas A. McKicrtun has been elected to the board of governors of tlic Fort Wayne National Bank in Fort Wayne. 
Raymond J. Kelley of Huntley, III., Is a candidate for the Illinois State Legislature from District Eight. Kelley, a practicing law>-er in Huntley, was for sixteen years prior to his candidacy postmaster at Huntley. He is also secretary of the McHenry County Democratic Central Committee. 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley, 4700 W. Adams St, Chicago 44, HL 
From LOU BUCKLEY: 
I met a number of classmates during the past two months. Mrs. Buckley and I had a good get-together with Frank Don3\*an and Bill Jones and their respective wives after the Tulane game. Frank's son, a sophomore at Notre Dame, his daug^ ,ter, a student at St. ^fary's Academy in South Bend, and his son in high in Afuskegon joined tts. Frank's summer home near ^fuskegon burned to the 
ground recently. Among the losses in the fire ^vas Frank's *28 cap from our 20-year reunion. 
WHlard Wagner mentioned to me recently that he has plans for a hat for our 25-ycar reunion which will be even better than the one he gave us in 194S, which was adopted by all classes in 1949. I also enjoyed seeing Augie Grams and his wife and daughter, a sophomore at St. M»y''s College, and Gtis Jenkins at the Tulanc game. 
It was good to see two '28 men at the John 6. Andrew Memorial Symposium on Labor Legislation and Social Security at the University of Wisconsin last month. Father Mark Fit^emld was there from Notre Dame and Bill Brown from the Allis-Chal­mcrs Corp., Milwaukee. 
A speaking engagement at the University of Illi­nois recently gave me the opportunity of visiting Vince Walsh and family in Kfontlcello, 111. Viuce has one boy who is seven years old. VInce's wife is a cousin of Father Jim AfcShane. She tells me that Father Jim is now located In Denver, Colo. Wc regretted that Father was unable to attend the 20­year reunion, but are looking forward to seeing him in 1933. 
I spoke at the University of Kentucky in Lexing­ton a few days ago and found that Fiank Quinn had moved to LouIs\'illc. Tlic closest thing to the class of '28 that I could find in Lcxin:;ton was Frank Dono\'an*s famous Iiorse, Fighting Frank. 
Joe Morrisscy and his wife were in the audience at a forum in which I participated in Co\ington, Ky. I had a fine session with the Morrisseys and met their three boys and daughter. Joe's oldest boy. Rock, is a member nf the champion Ohio high school football team thi' year. You will recall the excellent pictures he took at the Reunion. Joe ad­vised me that John Igoe is moving to Columbus to swell the ranks of *28crs there. Joe stopped in Clarksburg, West Va., a short time ago and called on Dr. Marcus Farrcll. Geoi ^ Leppig, according to Joe's report came up from Quantico for the Washington, D. C., club rally before the Naxv game. He also saw John Winberry and his recent bride at the Navy game. As a roving reporter at the other games, Joe reports the following: Wm. 
H. Murphy of Chitrago, Frank Donovan and Jc ^ Frederick at the Michigan State game; John Wal­lace, Chris Flanigan and John Frederick at the Iowa game; Elmer Wynne, J<^m Polisky, John Ny­ikos, Frank Quinn, Tom Byrne, Bob Hamilton and Frank McCarthy at the So. California game. 
My old roommate, Denny Daly, and his \rife from St. Paul attended the So. California game with us. but we were not so successful as Joe in seeing other '28 men. Denny practices law In St. Paul and teaches tax law at the University of Minnesota. He has two boys. 
I was sorry to hear from both Joe Morrisscy and Denny Daly that our classmate, Joe Benda, is seri­ously 111. I know you will all want to pray for his speedy recovery. 
Bud Callagy of Ncw^ York was in Chicago this month attending an American Bar Association com­mittee meeting. He Is a member of the committee which Is preparing a report on criminal defences. Bud advised me that Art Dcndbfield Is in the U. S. for a visit. Ife reports that Jim Gonmcy is with a packing company, is married and has a family. Bud telk me that Jdhn Antus Is a special attorney gen­eral with the U. S. Government. Bud mentioned that he sees Joe Lenlban and George Crongcyer regularly. 
Art Glcason's son \-isited recently in Chicago. He is a student at St. Joseph's College, Collegevllle, Ind. Art's daughter Is at Bowling Green University* in Ohio. Art is with the Goodrich Tire Company In Akron. 
I was pleased to read that Joe Brcig is the author of a new book entitled "God in Our House." 
Frank Donovan advised me of the death of Ward 
A. Hillerdi of Louisville. 
HcttTT P> Baum has lived in Los Angeles since 1957. He U married and has tivo children. Henry-is a court clerk in the Los Angeles Municipal Court. 
Gns Jenkins kept a promise made to me at the rally in South Bend before the Tulane game that he would give me a report on the '2B men he had seen recently in his travels. Gus is in the steel business, a partner in the Dunn Welding Co., Inc. manufacturer of automobile convoy trailers. Recent­ly in Pittsburgh, John McMahott showed Gus the alarm clock from Room 204, Freshman Hall, which 

Volume 28, No. 1, January-February, 1950 
Joe Canty had mailed to him. Joe is practicing law in Columbus, Ohio. 
A year ago Gus visited Dick Greene in Syracuse. Dick Is the number one man In experimental lab­oratories in the field of light at the Crouse-Hines Corp. in Syracuse. Gus gave me the address of Red Connors as 467 Delaware Rd., Kenmorc, N. 
Y. We have not had Red's address for some time. Several times Gus has called on Al Tchan in Spring­field. Al has three boys. Gus crossed Lake Michigan on the Milwaukee Clipper with Hayes Murphy of Moline and his family last summer. 
The Bureau of £mplo>-ment Security was re­cently transferred to the U. S. Department of La­bor. Our new regional ofHcc Is located at 226 W. Jackson Blvd., Room 400. It is only a few blocks from the Union Station, so I hope the '28 men will stop off between trains In Chicago to see their 5ccretar>'. The telephone Is Andover 3-3600. 
John Herbert is still representing Will & Baumer Candle Co., as manager of the New England branch In Boston. John is married and lives in Needham. He has a boy, four, and a girl, two years old. 
I visited Bill Coyne, '27, in Joliet recently. Bill who has been In the Legal Department of the Atomic Energy Commission, has returned to Wash­ington, D. C , where he b with the Federal Hous­ing and Home Finance Agency. Bill has a boy 13 years of age. Red (Tom) Dunn, '27, and his \vife %vere also visiting Bill while I was there. Tom is practicing law In Morris, 111., and is active In poli­tics. He is a Lincoln student and is quite interested In several historical societies. Dr. Frank Flynn, for­merly of the sociology department at Notre Dame and now associate professor at Chicago University, and his wife were with us at BiU*s. 
I had a letter from Jack Dailcy, '27, who is practicing law In Burlington, Iowa, with his broth* ers Ed and Tom. Jack has suggested that alumni football tickets be assigned so that classes will be seated together. This %vould give us a mar\'elous opportunity to renew old acquaintances. Let me know what you think of this idea. 
Ed Quuui, who Is doing an outstanding job in the Department of Testing and Guidance at Notre Dame gave me the following: 
"IVof. Ronald Rich, Head of the Department of Chemical Engineering, was elected president of the Lay Faculty Club of Notre Dame earlier this fall. It Is understood that he ran on a strictly antl­prohibitlonist ticket. 
''I was lucky enough on two occasions this fall, the Tulane and So. Cal. games, to exchange pleas­antries with our class president, John Frederick. On both occasions he had to shift his inevitable cigar to get out his 'Hello' to me. John has a little displaced a\'oIrdupois now, but don't we all? 
"Bob Gresser is assistant cashier at the West End State Bank, Mishawaka, where he can really use that accounting knowledge drilled Into him by good old Brother Cyprian. Bob, by the way, was not one of Brother's 'daisies,' 
'^Speaking of C>-prIan, I saw Cyprian Sporl In front of the Administration Building Immediately after the Tulane game. Cyp was engaged in a lively conversation with Father Lou Thornton ('29) so I didn't interrupt them then and didn't get to see him again to say *HelIo.' 
"Although Andy Boyle and I are right here on the Notre Dame campus, I get to see him only once or twice a month. Andy Is business executive for the Nuclear Research projects on the campus, so ha Is kept as busy as I am. I hai'c one advan­tage over him, however, I can talk more than he can about what Is going on in the Department. 
"It is only at Christmas time that I get to hear liow Roy V. Novak Is progressing out in Spllleville, Iowa. But for over twenty years neither one of us has missed the exchange of Yuletlde Greetings. Roy is a prosperous banker and realtor in his home community, and does considerable traveling just to Hnd out where the fish are biting best. 
"Geoi^ Sdieur is with the South Bend "Tri­bune" snd doing very well. He has a boy In our St. Joseph parish choir, so I get to see him quite often now, either before, after or at Mass. 
"Willtard Wagner and I had a pleasant chat the other day directly beneath the Golden Dome and on the grotmd floor of the Administration Building. Wllard, it seems, %vas on his way to Bill Dooley*» office to start laying plans for another reunion. Knowing his Intentions, I didn't detain him too long, because our twenty-fifth has to be the best ever, even though it is a few years away yet. And ive have to give Wag plenty of leeway, of course. 
"There Is nothing that makes me feel so old as to ha\'e a classmate's son walk in on you to tell you that *Dad wants me to make your acquain­tance.* While this isn't exactly what happened to Bob Steepler's son, I do know he is here on cam­pus now as a freshman. 
"Earlier this year I had some correspondence with George Thomas of Willoughby, Ohio. George is city clerk there." 
Bill Jones was in Chicago on Nov. 26 attending a meeting of the American Bar Association's Com­mittee on Professional Ethics, of which he is a member. Bill reports that Joe Kane was in hu office In Washington a few weeks ago. Joe is working for the Commerce Department In the Office of Inter­national Trade. He Is now in Bermuda on a vaca­tion. Bill mentioned that Pat Canny was in Wash­ington recently, keeping the Erie Railroad running on time. Charlie Ferris recently transferred to the Housing and Home Finance Agency to take over a responsible position. Bill saw Dave Fields, Dr. Roy Scholz, Gil Prendei^ast and Bemie Loshban^ after the Navy game. Bill planned on attending the Natural Law Institute which he praises very highly. 
Bill Armin and his wife, Wm. H. Murphy, Bill Kearney and I sat together at the Notre Dame Club of Chicago Annual Communion breakfwt on Dec. 11th. Jack Sheedy*s brother. Father Sheedy, gave an excellent talk at the breakfast. He teUs me that Jack has four children. Bill Kearney, who also has four children. Is practicing law in Chicago with Bert Korzen and Dick Fhelan. Bill specializes in tax law. Bill Armin is In tax accounting and Bill Murphy Is ^v•ith a chemical company in Chic^o. Bill, who Is still single, told me about meeting Afarty Ryan when they were in the army. I was sorry to hear from BUI Kearney that Howie Vhat* lln's mother died. 
This will be continued In the next issue with some outstanding reports from Jim Shocknessy. Jim \vill pass along to us at that time letters from John CuIIInan, John Igoe, Marty Rini, Nofb So­densticker, George Kelley, Frank Strohm, Joe 1^ ­bey and Hudson Jeffereys. I am siu-e that with this parade of corespondents awaiting you in the next issue, you will be watching for the mailman. 
Bert Dunne informs the magazine that Flullip Ptton's address Is 2996 NcII Ave., Columbus 13, Ohio. PIton is assistant to George Trautman, presi­dent of the minor baseball leagues association. . . . Bernard R. Schuh Is In the Isolation Hospital in Fort Wayne, Ind.—R.R. 13. 
Bill Pluchel's new address Is 245-83 63rd Ave., Douglaston, L. I., N. Y. Bill Is manager of mail and express for TWA airlines. 
7929 

Don J. Pliinkctt, Biology Dcpartmcnty Notre Dame, Ind. 
From DON PLUNKETT: Bill Crotty (Automotive Products Div., Qulncy, Mich.) writes: "I should have written you long ago to tell you what a grand job you did for all of '29ers at the reunion. Everything was fine. .. . Now for the news: I flew over to Cleveland In October for a session with my patent attorneys—and met Chndc Rohr, genial host, at his restaurant. Pat Canny was there lunching with Chile Walsh, and came over for a brief visit. Wonder how many of you *29ers can remember how well I kept out of Pat's way in those exhibitions In Carrol Rec? I still have a few lumps. "Bumped Into Eddie Gage while shopping in De­troit recently. Eddie has an Oldsmobite dealership in Royal Oak, Mich. (Crotty makes 47 different parts on Oldsmobiles—PLUG). "Phoned Ed McMabon at his home in Syracuse recently. He sells mechanical trucks for material handling to manufacturers. Ed did a lot of back­stroke on the last ND swimming team. "Paul Isvolt calls on me periodically for the Acme Steel Company. He sells stapling equipment and banding devices—out of Kalamazoo. "I get together with Jack HiggiBs (John T.) quite often. Jack handles our legal matters and is a director of this corporation. "Saw Bni Fitzpatrick at the Iowa game. You re­member what an afternoon BUI used to give to* Bisd 
Boeringer (they both chewed tobacco) during scrim­mage! Bill Is now a prominent attorney in Detroit. "Don, this just about runs me out —and I've 
enjoyed every minute of it. Come sec me sometime at the factory here in Quincy and I'll show you how we make fenderwelt, gaskets and other auto­motive products. Or if it's a few loops you're after, I'll take yoQ vp for a ^in!" 
Rer. Otis Wiwrhcster (2459 Washington Avenue, Cleveland) writes: "I have some sad news for you. One of our dear classmates, Joseph FitJsesald, passed awray on Saturday, Oct. 22. He was takes to the hospital with a pneumonia condition and contracted a uremic condition on top of this. Noth­ing could be done for him even by the best d specialists. I saw him twice while he was there and the last time was just before he passed xwxf. I am sure that you will pass the word aloi^ to the rest of the fellows about Joe, remembering that he was a true Notre Dame man." 
The class of 1929 extends siacercst sympathies to Mrs. Joseph Fitzgerald of Cleveland on the death of her husband. A month's mind was celd>rated oa Joe's anniversary. 
Jofaa Dorga« attomey-aMaw (Hubbard, Hi^bbanl and Dorgan in Chica^^) writes: "I saw the Washing­ton game at Seattle. Met Jim Brady, '29, from Ida­ho Falls and was out with him and To n Stmt% from Boise, Idaho, on two evenings. Also saw horn Mitgam OQ the way through Mlnne^iolis, where we had a short stay. Regan is an executive with Sears being in charge of *ribbon cuts over 5 yards.' (I quote Regan.) As to the rhubarb about officiating I wouldn't know as my seats were in bacJc of Mt. Rainier. However, I did hear the pistol shot at half time." 
Dr. Frank Paul Kane (Binghamton, N. Y.) writes that he and his family si>ent an extended weekend In New York for the North Carolina game. 13c also writes that Professor Staunton (retked) recently built his own home and is living in Binghamton. 
Bob Bast and family attended the SMV game. Bob receives his mail at the Stone Construction Co. of .\da, OkU 
Tom McDoi^a], commissioner and treasurer of Anttgo, Wis., writes: "I have been unable to get back to a football game this year as I am busy dosing my pending cases before Jan. 1, when I can no longer practice. I have been studying law all over again so that when I take the bench III be loaded with decisions. This summer I watched Ray Peters, formerly of N.D., play first base in the Wisconsin State League." 
Joe Bfnihall (Mulhall Lumber Co., Owosso, Mkh.) and family attended the Michigan State game »t East Lansing and thoroughly enjoyed the skill of Williams, Hart. Sitko and Martin. Joe was dis­appointed that he didn't see a '29er in the East Stands, Section G. 
Twenty-six Masses have been celebrated by priests of our class for deceased members of 1929. These Masses have been said since the reunion. U you wish to increase this number let me know. 
Rossdl C. Kndil was recently elected president of the St. Joseph County Bar Association and at the same meeting Bob Grant ('28) was elected to the Board of Governors. 
Rev. Henry B. Altmaan is at St. Raphael's Church in Glasgow, Mont., and writes that he is knee deep in a $125,000 mortgage on his parish schooL 
FHe FMersdunidt (3416 E. Admiral Court, Tulsa) writes: "Just returned from Dallas where I saw KU Batkr quite by chance. You see I was interested in some liquid package articles and haiqiened to stc^ at 43(^ Lemmon Ave.—Butler's Liquor Store. BUI says he has two daughters and already they have placed their hotel reservations for the 1951 SMU game in South Bend. Also saw Fred Faast at the game but didn't get a chance to visit with Fred or his family. They have two boys and a |prl (4035 Holland .'\ve., Dallas). 
*'We—Peterschmldts—have lived In St. Lotus 13 years, Wichita two and in Tulsa since 1944. I am secretary-treasurer of Engineering Laboratories, Inc., and we have plants in Tulsa and Gaylord, Texas. We have four daughters from 4 to 15. Father Lou Thornton has no chance, so far, of registering any­one from my household. 
**Don, sorry I missed the twenty-year reuiuon but sign me up for our 25th Silver Jubilee. As for my health I tip the scales at 196 and feel that if I had had that in 1925 I could have given guys like Freddie Miller and Tim Moyniliaa some trouble. 
"The 1949 team under Williams and Co. was a fast operating unit—team work is still Notre Dame's chief asset. Let me extend a hearty Merry Christ­mas to the 29ers." 
Ed Bans (Insurance—Battle Creek) writes: "Bar­old Steinbacker is in Battle Creek and takes over 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
as turcuit judge on Jan. l^ 1950. As for Ed Baum, I am working m>-sclf to death in the insurance busi­ness tr>Tng to support five children alt going to sdiool." 
Bill Cronin (Frtgidairc Sales Corp., Oakland. Calif.) writes: "The weekend of tlic N.D.-U.S.C. game all of the district alumni gathered at Fred Peak's home and had a beer and dutch lunch while listening to the game, and wc enjoyed the game Very much. In attendance was Paul Cushlng, for­merly of Chicago, Bemic Abbrott, whom a number of '29ers will remember, and Bill Yore. There were a number of otliers from earlier and later classes tlian '29. 
"The X.D. Club of Northern California is Jiaving a party at the Elks Club in San Francisco for \hc football players coming out here for the West Coast Shrine game. Again I want to say I sure missed being at the reunion but did get a kick out of reading your report on the goings on of others who attended. Sign me up for the 25th reunion and I'll be seeing you in the not-too-distant future.*' 
Dr. Bill NefF (Superintendent of Scliools, Mandan, ^\ D.) «Titcs: ''During the past summer I had the enjoyable experience of visiting professor of educa­tion at Boston College during the summer session. Each fall I indulge in the pursuit of grouse and pheasant in our great land of hunting! You Imnters of the *29 class should do your shooting in North Dakota." 
CIcte Schneider (Schneider Transportation Co., Cleveland) sends the cleverest Christmas card greet­ings—CIcte has the entire crew of Dorothy, Abigail, Al, Tom, and Dorthy .Ann handling the mate's duties. 
Prof. Larr>' Staudcr (Department of Electrical Engineering, N.D.) sends the foHowing note: "Pure chance placed three *29ers at a single table at the Notre Dame Football Banquet. One xvas Tom Far­rell of Niles, a law graduate, who has the Farrcll Floor Covering Co. in NJIes. Tom «*as formerly with the Michigan Department of Parole and Pro­bation. He mentioned that Cap Graihwohl, former city attorney, is doing vers- well in private practice. The Grathwohls have two sons and a daughter. Dr. John A. Vaichules monogram winner in track, took part in the discussion. John has followed the team to eight games including the *'tops" SMU contest. John A«*as cited nationally for his research on typhoid and can be reached at Mcntone, III. Larry Staudcr, who rounded out the reminiscing threesome, brought them up to date on his ex­periences with General Electric, high school foot­ball coaching. Allis-Chalmcrs and at N.D. since 1937 in electrical engineering." 
Hugh McManigal (Acme Construction Co., Mi­ami) writes: "I noted that you told the fellows about my two daughters but neglected to also men­tion my pride and joy, namely, Hugh Jr. Hughie is in the fifth grade now and should be in the class of '61 at Notre Dame. I will be sorely disappointed if he isn't AII-American. My wife and I spent a Week in New York at the time of the North Caro­lina game. . . . 
"As you know, I was also at the Southern Cal­ifornia game and saw you at the Oliver Hotel. I was ver>' glad to see Ed Krause and talk of th* possibil­ities of a game in Miami at some future date. The most recent and last trip found me in Dallas for tile SMU game and I want to tell you that this will stand out as the all-time great game in my mind. .. . I had to stay in Fort Worth and ran into John Igoc of the Class of *28 in the same hotel. Therefore, John and I spent a good bit of time together and went over to the game along with his guests and mine. John is the 'salt of the earth* and is the ver\* best of company no matter where or when, I certainly enjoyed seeing htm again. 
"RctMmcd from Dallas witli our Monsignor Bar­ry, who received an honorar\' degree at Kotrc Dame several years ago. Saw Gaylord Haas* brother in Dallas and was told that Gaylord is still 'hittin' the tbc ball* in Washington. Have started a second construction company, whose operation will be in the Florida Kcj-s with headquarters at Tavcrnier. The Keys area will be built up, one of these days, as Miami Beach now is. It is the best vacation spot in .\merica in my opinion." 
WTUT ARE THE '29eK DOING? 
Gcoi^e N. Be^mer, attorney (Cnimpackcr, May, Bcamer, Lc\y and Scarer) of South Bend can be reached at 811 J.M.S. Bldg. George is active in the Optimist Club, Indiana Club, N.D. St. Joseph Valley Club, Executive Comm. Boy Scouts of America, the American and Indiana Bar Associations. Tlie Bcamcrs have two children Judith 10 and George, 
Jr., 12. 
Rev. Charles J. Young, C.S.C., has been in the mission field for twelve years and at present is in charge of missions in Tripura State, India. 
Chester E. Smith is branch manager for the As­sociates Discount Corporation in Afuskegon, Mich. Mall will reach him at 306 Muskegon Bldg. Chester is active in the Elks and Excliange Club. The Smith*s have three children John, Phyliss and Joyce. 
John Joseph Reager, 703 Ne«- Brunswick Ave., Perth Amboy, N. J., is superintendent and engineer of the city Water works, ^fail will reach John at the City Hall. Marv- and John Porter keep the parents busy. John is active in Holy Name, K. of C , N.D. Club and Kiwanis. 
Dr. George J. McDonnell, 97 W. Main St., Free­hold, N. J., is a physician in private practice and medical director of .-Mlenwood Hospital for Tubercu­losis. The McDonnells have five daughters. Geoi^e is active in Neiv Jersey and American Medical As­sociation, N.D. Club, K. of C, and Lions. 
>ViIliam C. Loughran, 913 Dontrey St., Baltimore, Md., is a teacher in the Department of Education. Loughran have three cliildren: Bill, Noel, and Molly. Bill Is active in N.D. Club, K. of C , Eagles and Holy Name. 
John J. Luccy (Lucey Bookkeeping and Tax Serv­ice) is located at 429 Congress St., Ottawa, III. The Luccy^s have one child, Kathleen. 
Karl Kaschewski, 519 St. Ann St., New Orleans, is manager of W. R. Grace &. Co., (engaged in international trade, banking, steamship operation, air lines and foreign manufacturing) Mezzanine Suite 19, International Trade Mart, New Orleans. Karl belongs to the Association of Commerce, Greco Coffee -Association, Export Managers Club, Inter­national House and New Orleans Board of Trade. 
Russell C. KuchI, attorney, 606 Tower Bldg., South Bend, ts active in Kiwanis, Elks, Reser\*e Officers .Association, American Legion, Association of Commerce, Indiana and St. Joseph County Bar Association. Tlie KuchPs have two cliildren James, 8, and Russell, U. 
Re\-. Thomas J. Lane, C.S.C., is head of the De­partment of Chemistry- at King's College at Wilkcs-Barre. Pa. 
Joseph H. Kraker Is treasurer and manager of Kraker*s Old Heidelburg Restaurant, 119 S. How­ard St., .\kron, Ohio. Tlie Krakcrs have fi\"c chil­dren and Joe Is active in the Kiwanis and XJnl­versit\- Club. 
Paul L. Clark Is owner of a drug store at 848 High St., Lexington, Ky. Paul is active In K. of C. and Baden Club. Children Peter, Susan and Mary keep Paul and his wife Isabel vcr>- bus>- and yoimg. 
John C. Meagher of 2161 Center Ave., Bay City, Mich., Is a partner in the Nfcagher & Sons Con­struction Co. The Meaghers have six children rang­ing from four to seventeen. John is actii'c in the Bay Cit>- Elks. 

Aaron W. Mason is the general program engineer for the Illinois Bell Telephone. Aaron receives his mail at 6543 N. Waukesha Ave., Chicago, and is active In the Western Society of Engineers, Amer. Institute of Electrical Engineers, Chamber of Com­merce and N.D. Club. Aaron and wife Dorothy have two children, Margaret and Allen. 
Peter J. Moi^an of 21 N. Lcnopc Ave., Trenton, 
N. J., is track coach at Princeton University and spends his extra time in the fall officiating foot­ball games. Pete Is a member of the Eastern Inter­collegiate Football Officials Assoc., Metropolitan Track Coaclies Assoc, and K. of C. Tlie Morgans have three children Felice, Peter and Judith. 
Tom J. Quigley is the athletic director and coach at Shenandoah (Pa.) High School and can be reached at 324 West Oak St. Tom, Jr., eleven, is following in the footsteps of his pop. 
Rc\'. Christopher 0*TooIe, C.S.C., Is assistant pro­\-inciaI of the Community at Notre Dame. Father O'Toolc Is a very active member of the National Catholic Philosophical Association. 
Joseph G. O'Bryan Is in cattle and general live­stock business in Htattrille, Kans. Joe and wife Rosemary have seven children. 
Jolm G. Molloy is with Handy and Harman (of Bridgeport, Conn.) smelters, refiners, and rollers of precious metals. John Is active in N.D. Club and Bridgeport Traffic .Association. Mail will reach him at 115 Ashley St. 
Kenneth J. Konop of 4116 Park .Ave., Indianapolis, is in the legal department of the A. T. & T. The Konops have three children, Margaret, Kenneth, Jr., and Jane. 
Robert J. Braekel is an architect at 1204 Broad­way, JopUn, Mo. Bob is active in K. of C. Work and he and his wife Lelan have three children. 
Clyde G. Atchtnson, who was a day dog from Elkhart during his undergraduate days. Is assistant chief metallurgist for the Sheffield Steel Corporation. Mall will reach Clyde at 2234 East 77th Terrace, Kansas City, ^fo. Clyde and his wife Edith have one daughter, Anna, about twelve. 
Jim GaUagfaer isn't vice-president of the Chicago Cubs baseball team an)*more, but his job stays the same. A stockholders* meeting in Januaiy dropped the v-p tag from Gallagher's name and left him just plain business manager. 
As a representative of the U. S. National Com­mittee for the Holy Year, James S. Mitchell, of Washington, was received In pri\'ate audience by His Holiness Pope Pius XII last month. Mitchell is executive secretary- of the National Council of Catholic Men. 
Raymond S. Billiard, chief of New York City's Welfare Department, was termed "Welfare's Wise Diplomat" in a Nc»v York "Mirror'* feature story-The story outlined Hilliard's successful efforts in reorgamzlng New York's second largest city depart­ment, remoWng Puerto Rican relief from the in­fluence of Vito Marcantonio, and eliminating the department's "Communist core." 

West Coast (duomi turned out lor the UiuT«mtf ol Washington smokor at the Washing­ton Athletic Club in Seattle before the Woihingten game last faU. At the speakeTs' table ore Ed Krause, Bishop Thomas A. Connolly^ Fother Theodore Hesburgh, executive •ice-president of the UniTernty, and ether Washington and Notre Dame officials 
Volume 28, No. 1, January-February, 19S0 
Alois Wdzcnboeh reports that he is making regu­lar trips to New York, Washington, D. C , Omaha, and Kansas City in connection with his work with Safeway Stores. AVelzenbach sent his regrets on missing the Class of '29 reunion last spring. He also reports that his original ND roommate, Kfor­ton Goodman, has made his home permanently in Los Angeles. 
Dr. Paul Bartholomew, professor of political sci­ence at Notre Dame, asserted that the mere form of democratic or republican government does not mean true dcmocracv', in an address at the annual convention of the American Political Science Asso­ciation in New York. Nowhere is that fact better demonstrated, said Bartholomew, than in the Latin American republics. 
Dr. Joseph V. Sdlla's new address is 1229 Willow Run Village, Willow Run, Mich. . . . Edmund R. McMahon is living at 8G09 Ohio .Ave., Detroit 4, Mich. 
1930 

Harold £. Duke, 4030 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Bcmie Conroy reports on the Class of '30's plans for its 20-year reunion next June: 
"Here is the latest information that I have on the Twenty-Year Reunion next June. Dan Cannon stopped at my home on his way to New York for the North Carolina game and he reports that twenty-five class members have already sent their checks to Father Totten to cover their reunion ac­tivities. 
"Letters have been sent to all class members. A number of the letters have been returned because the mailman can not find our wandering classmates. If any class member hears of anyone who does not know the particulars of this reunion they are asked to get in touch with Dan Cannon or Father Totten. 
"Local arrangements have been put in the hands of a splendid committee of fellows who arc living in the South Bend area. They arc Deverc Plunkctt, 
H. Louis Stcttler, Paul R. Fanner, Francis M. Mes> sick, AValtcr Langford, Lou Hastey, and Dick Sul­livan. 
"The various state chairmen have shown a great deal of enthusiasm and arc working hard to or­ganize groups and make plans for next June's big weekend. Dr. John Forsee has already promised that he and Bill Risert will be present, thus assuring 100 per cent representation from Kentucky. John Conlin writes from Monroe, Mich., that he is con­tacting Bill Reaume and they will see that the Michigan boys turn out for the event. Paul Rist has agreed to take charge of the situation in Ari­zona. 
"Ron Sullivan writes from Portland, Ore., that he and Fred Cunningham are tr>'ing to arrange transportation. Ron has a wife and four children to consider, so a trip like this requires a lot of plan­ning. Tiiat is one reason why the committee started early to lay plans for this big event. Bob Eggemen is contacting all of the la^^^'crs. 
".\ letter from Pat Goggin of Seattle reads as follows: 'Enclosed herewith is a corrected list for Washington State to date, and the only correction is the addition of the one and only Edward L. Mc-Crimmon, off-campus office fame. I was greatly sur­prised to run into McCrimmon recently here at Boeing Airplane Co. I previously had talked to him following my return from a Boeing assignment in Africa and Italy in 1944. McCrimmon has since returned to Boeing following another fling in Hon­olulu and a stay in Guam. He states that it's the State of Washington from *now on in'!' 
"Here in Penns^'lvania Leo Carney has contacted a number of the fellows around Erie, and John Roney, who travels for Jones & Laughlin Steel Co. throughout western Penns>'K-ania, is looking up other classmates in this area. Hughie Gallagher and Duke Kingsley have assured me that they will be present next June. Joe Mooney, who is with the Kce Lox Manufacturing Co., states that Jim Burke and Rod­ney Janeway of Oklahoma City and Joe Moran and himself from Tulsa expect to be present. They have to work on Martin R«dy in order to make it 100 per cent from Oklahoma. 
"Joe Abbott, who is now with the Federal Tele­phone & Radio Corporation at Clifton, N. J., wrote that he is working with Tom Kemieally on the New Jersey graduates. I have also received letters from Con C^rey, Walt Langford and Tom Purcell, who are doing their bit to help make the reunion a success. With all of this cooperation I am certain that this ^rill be the greatest Twenty-Year Reunioa that the University has ever seen," 
Following is a list of members of the Class of '30 whose addresses are incorrect on the mailing list. Anyone who knows their present addresses should send us the word promptly. Thanks very much. The displaced persons are: 
Howard T. Abrams, Richard J. Bailey, Danid Barton, Kenneth A. Boagiu, Thomas J- Bradley, Donald D. Brusca, John C. Christiansen, Tlumas 
E. Clarke Joseph E. Co^an. Wilbur V. Cnlp, Rob­bcrt M. Diokel, Charles J. Eickhoff, Philip S. Flyna, James E. Friel, Charles A. Gibbons, William D. Grant, Rabbi Philip S. Greenstein, Paul T. Hamil­ton, Lavornce D. Johnson, Edward J. KcUy, Rob­ert C. Kelly. 
\Mlliam H. Knapp, Andrew L. Lo\'e, Raymoad 
J. McCoIlum, Joseph G. KfcPharlin, James A. Blal­loy, John P. Manning, William H. Moran, Robert 
A. Mulball, Thomas G. Murphy, Robert E. P^qo^­not, Vassar B. Roscwarne, Arthur L. Rotile, IIMO­dore J. R)'an, George G. Simons, Edward S. Snutb, Jerome F. Smith, Denis J. Swenie, Laond G. Thm ­scn, Emerick A. Trandel, Harley R. Truitt, Henrr 
H. J. Wotters, Edward T. Yorke, Francis Zdankos. 
Dr. Philip M. Pro^-issicro has been elected vice-president of the Exchange Club of Paterson, N. J. 
Another Paterson graduate of Notre Dame is Joseph A. Abbott, who was recently featured by the Paterson "Evening News." Abbott is personnel director of the Federal Telphone and Telegraph Corp., and a member of numerous clubs smd or­ganizations, including the executive committee of the American Football League. 
Rev. Joseph M. Kmiedk, stationed at St. Ed­ward's University in Austin, Texas, recently re­covered a chalice he had left in Czartoryski, Po­land, while fleeing deportation ten years ago. The chalice and paten were returned to Father Kmiecik fay the Catholic League of Chicago. 
Frank Fink, managing editor of the **Sunday Vo' itor," was one of 35 newspaper editors and writers in\-itcd by Trans ^Vorld Aairlines to be its guest on the first flight of a new passenger and commercial service to Milan, Italy. The group was to tour Europe as guests of T^VA to demonstrate how an American tourist can visit old world countries and take part in Holy Year ceremonies during a two-week \'acation. Frank's address is 1544 Poplar St., Huntington, Ind. 
John (Bus) Redgate is facing a long puU against tuberculosis and wants to hear from his classmates. His address is Gaylord Farm Sanitarium, Walling-ford. Conn. 
7931 

Walter F. Philipp, 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Square, Pa. 
Mart Downey has been named official midwestem representative for the Santa Fe Studios of Church Art, Inc. His address is 7810 S. Carpenter St., Chi­cago 20, 111. 
\VilIiani A. Santel is the neu* manager of the chemical department of the South American Miner­als and Merchandise Corporation, 443 Park Ave., New York. Santel ^vas formerly purchasing and con­tract officer for the U. S. Army Quartermaster Corps, foreign aid branch, chemical division. 
Two Notre Dame men ser\'ed as attorneys for Preston Tucker in the automobile executive's Chi­cago trial. They were Frank J. McAdams, Jr., and Wlliam T. Kirby, '32. Their efforts cleared Tucker of mail fraud and security violations charges. 
Nicholas J. Bohling is the Republican candidate tor Cook County clerk on the slate recently drawn up by the Chicago Republican organization. An­other Notre Damcr on the GOP ticket is Mario Tonelli, '39, varsity football member who survived the Bataan "death march." Tonelli will run for clerk of the appellate court. 
Tom Ashe was recently appointed assistant general manager o[ Globe Oil Tools at Los Nietos, Calif. 
7932 

James K. Collins, 17 Triangle Ave., Dayton 9, O. 
From JIM COLLINS: The annual report of the Old Rip, Al Cuhrcr, xs at hand and follo^vs in his own unmistakable style: "The spring snooping season opened to a poor 
start at the Daily News Relays i s the Chicago Stadium. Joe Nash, the demcn center of yestcr* year, and the least marked up of those CMd Ojm line scrimmages, was there with his sons, Jsf Wyatt, the well knowa football ex-un^ure, who It living in semi-retirement in Michigan City, was one of the jix^es but when the Bankers' Mile was held. Jack Elder and the long distance Brown Brothers were not on the sidelines. One doesn't see Coach Nicholson's starting blocks beii^ used any more. 
^'Several visits to the campus broo^t many pleas­ant hours during the spring food>aU season. C ^ Saturdays the scrimmages were most savage and yoa could see the resnlt of hard work as it progress­ed. My pal Ted Twooey, known as a *TackIe's Tackle,' put in an appearance and the old florida 'gator bundled up in one of the line paritas to watch the practice. He has a year-round tan bom working as line coach at the U. of Florida. Cari Cronm made sc\'eral trips with me to peck throi^i the fence. He is resting at 7631 S. May St., Chica­go, after a serious operation, and any of you has-beens who were taken out of the picture when Stumpy put a block on you and who feel a qiree of misspelling coming on, can write hun a word of cheer. 
"Frank Leahy visited his wife at St. Joseph Hospital after the special delivery stork Job last summer and he was so happy that he broke down and had a real loud natur^ laugh for himsdf. It renunded me of times he out-drew To a Yaxr xn Sorin poker sessions, and drew a large pot from lus cohorts. Moose Kranse is going places as athletic director. Right after he was chosen for thu spo^ he was out at practice spreading a word of ^ec r to the boys as they came off the field. He has heen doing this for a long time and knows and calls eacJi one of them by his first name or nickname. A sU^ on the back when it is almost broken means ai lot to those boys. 
'Tather Tom 'Slapper* Brennan posed for some snapshots on the field, and the handball king of the campus has not changed a bit durmg the past few years, although he admits playing doubles for his exercise, and is careful choosing his partner to hold him up in the pinches. The old hawBiall courts were the scene of much feuding and fussing: Seriously, though, kindly remember his mother in your prayers. The grand old lady died at West Lake, Mich., a few months ago, and was active right up to the end. 
"Joe Boland, who is well on his way to hanng Ike Voe^sdi's brewers crying in their own suds, watched practice with Chet Grant and Kid Bedur, another tackle firehorse who was put out to pas* ture many years agOy and we all buzzed brightly before walking a^vay, knowing that memory blocks were all that we had left. 
"Norm Greency called me up between planes some tune ago, and we vuited with John QnniB smd his family. Joe Fcrfey was here recently on his way back to Canada. 
"Moon Mullins was said to have been at the Pur­due and Iowa games but I missed him eadi time so was unable to coni^ratulate him on his un­defeated season at St. Ambrose College. 
"Frank Caridco has done a good job with Eddie Anderson at Iowa. His brother Fred sits withm hailing distance of us at the games; his wife is quite a fan, too. 
"Marsh Kiaer, the hardcourt slicker from Ply­mouth, Ind., knows his football just as well as he played basketball. He might ask to have his seats changed, however, as he sat in front of me at the home games and always got up with a lame back. He and I really did work hard to push some of those TDs over. B ^ Kitdb DeVanIt from Mnncxe has not been seen this season, although I suppose he has been to all the vames. Jofamy Frrdcrick, Tom Roach, Rog Kiley, Benue Leahy and ex-Fra(. Lee Flatlcy were some of the old guard that cat^ t my wandering eye. Tom 'Kitty' Gorman, a xood center who served his time under Moynihan's Mur­derers Row, seems very well preserved and still plays a lone hand at the games. 
"Did you know that Joe 'Bop* Thoratoa, a goard on the freshman team, is dead? He was a great shower room entertainer, and could mimic all the comics of the day. 
"for a quick roundup: "Walter Govx^toa: How is your knee, and what are you doti^? "Norm Ifawit: You were last seen aronad L. A. Do you still have an eye for the gals as yoo £ d when you were life guard at Rogers Park Beadi? 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
**Mike Halligan: Arc you traveling auditor for G\IAC? Stumpy saw j-ou many years ago, and wonders whether you ever got back from Detroit. 
**Joe Kuith: ^NTiy don't you come down for the games? Buckets Goldcnbcrg can't find you in the crowd. 
**Tom Conley: You sure looked in shape last spring. Nice going; the wolves said you were bloated up, with the swivel chair shift your only exercise." 
.\ns»vcrs or rebuttals to any of (he above ques­tions or statements can be made to .-M directly at 3045 \V. b3rd St., Chicago. He can do his own ducking^ especially from Joe Kurth, when this is read. 
Pete Strcb wTites from Massillon that he is sales representative for Dicbold Safe and Lock Co. in office s\*stem sales. He sa>-s Brother CMirian's ac­counting course is still paying off. His brother, Ed Streb, '34, is purchasing agent for Superior Switch­board Corp., in Canton. Pete sends congratulations to Frank Leahy and the team and is reminded of the first SSiV game when ^fanny Kaplan tackled a Mustang in the open to save ihe game on the last play. 
Spike SulU\-an, '31, writes that the SMU game was wonderful for anyone with a strong nervous s>'Stem, and that he saw many former classmates there. He suggests that New Orleans would be a good rallying place next year at the Tulane game. He also mentioned that he sees Leo Fagin often in Tulsa. 
Cliff Prodehl handled the 'Fighlin Irish Special' for the Philadelphia club to the Xa w game in Bal­timore. That and a football contest which lie also handled netted the club $3,350, whicli makes the first lime they have ever had over $5,000 in the treasury. Congratulations. 
An announcement from Flo McCarthy states that he is now with the George E. Forbes Company of Cleveland in charge of real estate sales. 
Methods of Christian discipline are needed to correct many of the troubles which destroy peace of mind, writes Father Felix Duffy, C.S.C., in his new-book, *T5>-chfatry and Asceticism." Father Duffy, assistant editor of the "Ave Maria." says psychiatric aid is essential in clear cases of mental illness, but such aid alone isn't enouch to cure illness caused by a guilty conscience. For these. Father Duffy recommends confession for Catholics. 
Futher Jerry Wilson, teaching accounting at No­tre Dame, reports tliat Joe Carey, formerly in pub­lic accounting, is now assistant treasurer of the Kclsey Hayes Wlieel Corp., one of Detroit's large outfits. 
Joe Petritz, who used to handle publicity for the Univcrsit>% is Ted Collin's new press agent for his New York Bulldogs. 
Father Geoi^e Baxter, C.S,C., is stationed at St. Mary's Church in Oregon, III. 
Ed Rhatl^n, former city commissioner of welfare in New York, is the new cvecutive director of the Goodwill Industries of New York. The Goodwill In­dustries operate a work training program for the ph\*sically handicapped. 
Anthony Conti was elected chairman of the George 
D. Small Memorial Boys Club in Paterson, X. J. 
7933 
Joseph D. A. McCabc, Rosary CoIl^c, River Forest, Hi. 
From JOE McCABE: Dear *33s! Shortly after sending in my trivia for the last 
edition of the ALUMNUS (right on deadline of course; Bill Dooley is so accustomed to that now that w*hen he receives ^fcCabe's stuff he knows it's time to let the presses roll) I was dumfoundcd to get a letter. Not only did tliis rare missive not contain a bill—it had some ne^%*s notes of NDcrs. It was from classmate Dan Casey, of Chicago's South Side—7712 East End Ave,, for those %vho'd like to write Dan. Many thanks, Dan, and here goes with a long excerpt from your priced com­munication: 
*'Have often wanted to take pen in hand and say hello, Joe. I've enjoyed your reports in the ALUMNUS (many thanks, Dan—plugs are more welcome to colyumnists than they are to bathtubs). Just read where Ed Angstcn lost his father (let's all murmur an Ave for Kfr. Angsten, '33s). Occa­sionally have run across Julius Kinaly, who is trav­eling for U. S. G>-psum. Saw Larry Scxtoa m In­dianapolis a short time ago. He's in the best of health and active in insurance. ^Vhcn I returned from Nax-y duty I stayed with the Government in the Federal Works Agency as chief of construction and had occasion to build two buildings for good old N.D. Now, since FAVA has been dissolved, I'm manager of contracts and construction in the Public Works Section of the Ninth Naval District. 
''Among those seen in the not too distant past aie Maury Lcc, and that gang pictured in > recent 
An olumnus still on duty as a chaplain in Japan is the Rev. Maurice Powers, 
C.5.C '33, shown distributing Holy Com­munion at a camp on Kyushu. Among Father Powers' activities in Japon was the organization of a campaign which resulted in the contribution of OTer $6000 worth of food to homes for orphans and the aged. In December nearly a thousond orphans were treated to a huge Christ­mas party. Father Powers' mailing ad­dress is 21st Ini Regiment, 24th Dtvisioiu JlPO 24-L San Francisco, Calif. 
issue of the .\LUMNUS—the boys from Allstate Insurance (Bob Gorman et al.) Regards and best wishes." 
Same to you and yours, Dan, and many thanks for writing. 
Enclosed in Dan's letter was a clipping announc* ing that John J. Collins, another of our '33s— living at 9601 Dobson Ave., Chicago, was ''selected by Federal Judge ^fichael Igoe to ser\'e as acting chief of the U. S. Probation Office in Chicago." 
Wonder upon wonder, a man in gray just brought in another communique from dear old '33—a Christ­mas card from Jack Jaeger, now living at 91 Crest Drive, Tarrj-town, N. Y. Jack says: **Am with Re\'­lon Products, 745 Fifth Ave. (he's assistant sales manager of Revlon's retail division) and since %(re*re both in a sense working in a woman's world (Ed* note: my wife tells me Rcvlon makes fiingemail polish, among other feminine aides d'enchantement) perhaps an exchange of ideas would be proBtable." 
Thanks, Jack—if I ever get an idea, I'll be quick to share it with you . . . and I'm sure those Rosaiy students who indulge in nail polish—never noticed how many do, to tell the truth—give at least a fair share of their trade to Revlon. The Jaegers have three children, according to the roster listed on their attractive Christmas card. 
John O'Sbauglmcssy and Mrs. O'S. were over re­cently . . . both look fine. John Goldea, now vice-president of the Thomas J. Webb Co. of Chica^^, dropped by the oflScc last week, but regret to say I was out. Maybe I'll return the favor—after all a veep ought to have an office that would be something to see. 
Eye-witness account: Just in case you are begin­ning to suspect that your secretary doesn't do any work to fill out the column himself, here's a list of who has been scea where. On Dec. 10, Rosary College and Notre Dame collaborated here at Rosa­ry on a joint glee club Christmas carol concert. It was really a delight to hear, and among the more than 1,300 who overflowed the hall to hear it were a big squad of ND's and their attractive wives, in­cluding Joe Nash (married a charming Rosary alumna) whom we haven't seen since he played center for Rock; Kitty Gorman, liketvise, for Rock's sucxxssors; Marty lonskey, and a surprise entry from New York—^Bill Lynch, yclept the Rabbi, Avho vow­ed he would bring some of our midwest culture back to Gotham; John Buckley, who, as president of the Chicago Notre Dame club, lent invaluable assistance to publicizing the Rosary-ND concert by sending out a general mailing to that effect; Frank 0*DoH-d, Joe Horan, Frank McDoimell, Joe Brcen, and many oth«-rs. 
Following day wc attended the annual ND Com­munion breakfast at Old St. Mary's. It was pleas­ingly well attended, but I'll let some other contribu­tor give you the details of that. Here's a list of those I remember having seen—Jim Cronin, Pat Crowley, Art Conrad, Ed &fansfield, Lou Buckley 
(\%*ho was too nice to remind me that our little kafTee-klatch here is long on guff, short on names], Barry O'Kccfe, Bud Joyce, Frank Clark, Al Stepan, Tom Spencer McCabe, Bert Kfetzgcr, prexy John Buddey, and scores of other guys to %vhom I apolo­gize right now for omitting. 
Father "Chick" Sheedy, one of that great little band of classmates who crossed the lake to go seminar>'-side, gave an enthralling talk on sanctity among laymen, and you could see the audience self­consciously adjusting their halos. 
Introduced as an innovation for Chicago com­munion breakfasts was the inclusion of w*ives as guests. A surprising number of communicants were able to get b^ y sitters at that hour in the yawning. and bring the helpmate—and help-wake—along. I convinced my beloved that she wouldn't be the only wife there, and sure enough among those present were the Mesdames (you can tell I've been writing a little of that clubwoman copy for Rosary alumna) Crowley, Clark and Kfansfield. 
The breakfast was a great success, and all hands— the fair and manicured, as well as the hairy and calloused—promised to give it their all by getting up early for it again next year. Art Conrad pointed out that there were 11 class secretaries in attend­ance, and slyly suggested we all take and sell tickets enough for a class table at the Chicago Club's an­nual election banquet Jan. 16. A clever lad, that Conrad, but you've got to expect it from a guy who heads up the National Institute of Professional Services. Best of luck to the firm, -Art, and w-e'Il try to get that table together. 
Last night Ann, charming co-pilot, and I steered the family bus by chart and compass through the wilds of Northwest Chicago to Wilmette for "Din­ner at the Crowlej-s," if the author of that recent best seller would excuse the expression. Fellow glass-and-fork men observed assaulting the Crowley larder were Fred Bccklenbcrg. Don Partland, Al Stepan, Jerry Crowley, Ed Stephan, mine host, Pat, and—now whom have I foi^otten, I'm always ask­ing myself? Unintentional, lads, if I did. 
The wives were there—a dazzling array, and you might call it a highly-expectant group. St. Kfary's and Trinity were represented, although outnumbered by Rfjsary, so you see I'm not too single-minded a cad to give the opposition a break. The Becklen­l>ergs and Stepans are leading in the local baby derfoy as far as I can find out, with seven and eight oflTspring, or some such number: I'm confused by higher mathematics. But I will say that the competition is far from over. 
LAUDS: Attendance at the communion breakfast, and other newsbits seen and heard gives comforting reassurance that the Notre Dame man Is still a de\-oted follower of our Lord and His Mother. But if you'll pardon the spiritual digression, lots of us can do a lot more—including your correspondent. Before launching into the prayer pep-talk, I'd like to. apologize if these periodic meanderings sound smug. It's like whistling when passing a grave)*ard or army recruiting ofiice. I hope that if I talk religion, and devotion to the Blessed Mother, I'll pick up enough of the plenty I lack to t>ecome a little more religious and devout myself. Anyway, here arc some of my rhetorical ruminations. . . . 

Volxime 28, No. I, ronuary-February, 1950 
I may be rushing my fences a bit, but if not this year it won't be long before usns of dear old *33 must face the fact that the old man with the whiskers—and I don't mean Uncle Sam—is going to be our buddy, like it or not. To those who Were fresh-cheeked, or just a fresh and cheeky 20 in 1930, the dawn of 1950 is going to mean the grun stalls-tics that—hey, I'M FORTY YEARS OLD. Or young, if you're optimistic, and lucky. 
To coin a cliche, let's resolve that our spiritual life begins at 40. Age hardens more than the ar­teries. The spring—in the step as well as the yearly season—has less bounce, the steles are a little heavier going down, the moming-after lasts past noon, and the barber has less work to do topside. But beyond this, there's less exuberance in looking past tomorrow—at the forthcoming football season (brother, it's cold out there in those stadium seats) or the next business opportunity . . . not much falling off, but a little less enthusiasm here and there for everything. 
Some of us have hit the top rung of the ladder, others are working up well past the middle, and for a good many of us the ladder of success seems to have lost its top rungs. But nearly all of us have a little less faith in ourselves, a small loss in our early belief that we'd be king of the mountain. Sad? Sure—but thank God for this—we've got tlie means of getting that botmce and that belief in ourselves back—in the spiritual life. 
Be sorry—and pray—for those outside (and even, which is the real tragedy, some of those inside) the Church—those who see youth go, and find that nothing takes its place—not money, or power, or Mayo's Clinic We can: in prayer, in frequent or daily Communion, and above all in devotion to our Blessed Afother, who will show us the \vay and the road. 
So let's go, gang—let's get our youth back spir­itually, with the added wisdom and grace of ma­turity. It's simple. . . . 
You can start it this way (say it with your wife' and kids)—"HaU Mary, full of grace . . ." 
And forgive a not too devout *33er-nearIng-40 for presuming to write his betters in this way. Tell you what—if you didn't like this, why don't you wTite? Or let's just say—why don't you write? 
Professor John J. Sheehan, head of the Depart­ment of Economics at N^otre Dame, was installed as first vice-president of the Catholic Economic Association for 1950. Professor Sheehan, a charter member of the organization, was associate editor of "The Re«ew of Social Economy," the society's quarterly journal. 
NBC's rapidly expanding "ballyhoo" headquarters in Hollywood is headed by Les Raddatz, according to a recent piece in the Hollywood "Reporter," the film industry's trade mag. 
Jim Garrigan Is a manufacturers* representative selling to hardware jobbers in New England and New York. He's looking, at the moment, for any alumnus who has additional lines to sell. Garrigan's address is 3509 Ave. H, Brookl>Ti 10, N. Y-
When Henry Grattan opened his new engraving studies in Newark, three N.D. grid stars were on hand to help commcnioratc the occasion. They were Al ZnujewsU, Larry (Scooter) Coutre, and Jerry Groom. Grattan specializes in hand-stcel engraved diplomas, class rings, and trophies. His new shop is at 61 Halsey St., Newark. 
7934 

Edward F. Mansfield, 6573 Glcnwood, Chicago 26, HI. 
From ED MANSFIELD: When '34 column time comes around we always flip open the file set to grab a fat handful of let­ters from dozens of neu's-laden classmates. We al­ways picture them, from the rockbound coasts to the sunny shores, eagerly compiling autobiographi­cal sketches and adding dozens of dilHes about '34 men they've seen. But there's a big diflference between that dream sequence and the lonesome few that are filed be­tween issues. A Saturday in South Bend, a news dipping, a chance encounter, the football banquet— all those sources have to be used. But what a column we'd all have next issue if one of 10 put down this ALUMNUS and wrote 30 words on a penny postcard. Fellow fugitives from Sorin, Walsh, and Corby, if you can gather 125 
strong for a reunion, cannot ye gather 50 strong by mail at a much lower cost? 
"DEAR SIR" DEPARTMENT . . . 
First, honored first, must come the loyal few who mailed news. And first of these firsts, a LADY takes priority—Patricia (Mrs. David W.) Dalrynqple of Rochester, N. Y. May her fine letter about Dave set a precedent for other wives. 
"Since you ran a little note in the ALUMNUS that my husband, Dave, couldn't attend the class reunion in June because he was *boning for the bar,* I thought you might be interested in the outcome. 
"He was admitted to the bar in New York state this month—November. In June of this year, he was graduated from Syracuse University law school— top man in his class—and during his senior year he was editor-in-chief of the law review and presi­dent of Justinian, the honorary legal fraternity. 
"^Vhile I don't mean to brag, I'm proud of hun, and I wanted you and his classmates to know that he had 'made it'." (7Crt Merchants Road^ Rochester 9, N. Y.) 
Thanks, Mrs. D., and we share your pride. May your letter start a new trend. Next, Bill Kenney and Dorothy of Charleston, 
W. Va., made their Christmas card a bit merrier by adding the name of William, Jr., « ^<ily 21 arrival. 
Richard Kelley, the stalwart, titian-topped mid-westerner gone bayou, vrcote from Baton Rouge and his furniture shop (custom, yet): 
"Noted in the last issue of the ALUMNtJS that you didn't sec anyone from our class at the Tulane game. Where were you looking? My wife and I combed the campus until her feet gave out and then we bought some hot dogs and sat in front on the law building. Harry McGowaa, ex-*3t, came along—then we saw Hugo lacovetti and bad a good but brief \'isit with them. Harry said he had four children and is located in Detroit with Bakelite, I believe; Hugo is unmarried and still liWng in Pitts­burgh. 
"Two days before the SMU game. Gene Stroi^, cx-'34, called from St. Louis and wanted someone to meet him in Dallas for the game. Strong drove back with us and stayed at my house for a few days. 
"Ed McKeever has had splendid success with his LSU team this year. (Ed's backfield coach.) Mc­Keever says we can start the handball sessions again after the Sugar Bowl game, and I can use it, as I've gained 15 pounds since September." 
Another letter, filched from the football files at Bob CahiU's Little Fort Knox, with the conni­\'ance of his top-flight secretary, sheds light on Louis P. Clark. At 31 Whitesboro St., YorkviUe, N. Y., Lou was still breathing hard after the SMU thing, and fired up to get tickets for the Krause-mcn's annual pattycake with NYU at the Gahd'n. Lou still regrets missing the reunion, and congratu­lates Frank Leahy, stafT, and team for "a wonder­ful job well done." 
(You *34 people will be ashamed of yourselves when this goes into print for all the worid to see, but that third letter ends the news by mail for this issue. Meteorology* note: that red overcast now roofing the U. S. comes from 540—nay, 536—faces shining with shame.) 
SATURDAY SHOUTS Despite much head-twisting and Dick Tracy work at four home games, few classmates were confronted. Until that Union Building swings wide its doors (bill the Foundation for this space), planned Sat­urday encounters will be difiicult. 
Short sessions were held with Carl Link, in from Pittsburgh; Harold Sporl, up from New Orleans (and recently a chatter ivith Stew Dsbom); Hi^o lacovetti, at seven games this year, the vagabond. Hugo reports Bill OTooIe's law school progress as outstanding. 
Just a quick look at these two was available be* fore hurrying elbows, blankets, and bodies blocked conversation: Fred Wridner, probably still in Chi­cago ^vith Sears, and John McLau^ifin, the beer­and-broadcast man from R. I. 
"WE ARE GATHERED TONIGHT . . ." 
At the football banquet, Dec. 16, in the dining halls, when 1200 filled seats desired by 3500. three '34 men were spotlighted: 
Ed Krause, athletic director, who deftly handled the introduction of team members, including the challenging task of reading hum Hart's honors with­out becoming winded. 
Bob Cahai, singled out by Hcib JOKS for liii ticket sales management. 
Paid "Mvr> MavMki, "Our Sunday Visitor" who is good company seven days a week, intiDduccd from the visiting press table. 
Knrt SinKm, '33, a commerce man still in Soutli Bend, who wUl be remembered by many '34 people as ex^Villagers president, was in the banquet throng, as well as ^ J. Shaken, now of Storgis, Mich. 
In the hat-check line, Eli reported that he hnd made the Carolina rally in New York, and had a fine visit with Frank Hoierkanip, Bill Golfini, and Tom Daltoo. A good '50 resolve: write Dalton to­day ftt Kingsbridge Veterans* Hospital, Bronx, N . 
Y. He's hopefid of getting out soon, after many months there, but mail would certunly help until that great day shows iq;i. 
NOMADIC NOTES . . . A phone booth try failed at Dr. J. D. Sorter-field** number in Columbus, Ohio. An unexpected holiday trip to Denver brought several pleasant hours with Gene Bliili and son, Bucky. Gene and Susan Monti of St. Louis will be married Feb. 21 in St. Louis. 
A short stay and a long list of names prevented visits with Father Sdnstian (Jack) Egan, 0,VM., reported to be doing excellent work in and out of St. Elizabeth's Priory, Denver. The same ineffectual excuse blocked a visit with Fsank Wklger, now with Texaco's road surfacing department in the Uni­versity Building, Denver. 
That fast-fiying VFW national headman, Clyde Lewis, popped into Denver conversation. The "KLZ public affairs manner. Mack Switzcr, twined that Clyde rated with the best in his grasp of radio timing and the producer's problems. Mr. Switzer handled a recent national broadcast by Clyde from KLZ's studios. 
HAS ANYONE HERE SEEN— Hector J. Mariani? This A.B. from Pearl River, 
N. Y., this sturdy ex-tackle, is listed by the alinn­ni GHQ as "unclaimed." Drop a note if you've run across Mr. M—or have Mr. Ihf. do it! 
MISSING LAWYERS— Here's another problem involving the musingt the fine group that stayed on to earn LL.B.'s wotmd up wiUi '36 listings, but not too much in common with '36 people. We'd like to Iiav« them back, but unless they request it personally, the alumni ofiBce can't juggle number arbitrarily. 
Remember those droll inmates of the same How­ard dovecote, "Red" Lyons and Howard Jcffcrs? (In the absence of the now-installed statues. Red once filled in during the noon hour in a niche over Howard's arch). George Lynch, the smiling ^ant? IMck Mf^qne, with the slick technique? 
May we hear from you legal fugitives from '34? 
RARE JOB, WELL DONE . . . "Notre Dame," that picture supplement to the ALUMNUS, out in December with the professional touch of the Foundation office upon it, certamly deser\-es an ofiBcial word of thanks from the class— all classes. It brought us up to date on University progress, plans, needs. Any of yon men who have trouble in your circles with those exasperating '^football foundry" arguments should stock your ammo chests with this publication. In fact, all issues of ^Tfotre Dame," ne*.v magazine, are good. 
SYMPATHY Did you read in the last ALUMNUS of the death of Jim Cnrran's wife in York, Nebr.? Write Jim at 656 E. 8th, York. 
MONOGRAM MEMOS: Hiq^ Dcvore, former nifty end and ND coach, received many headlines and banquet bouquets for his last grid season at St. Bonaventure. It brought. his Olean, N. Y., school record to 25 right, 9 wrong, and one even. And he plays tou ^ ones. Ask Boston U. Jim Leonard had a very good year at l^llanova, and his giant fullback, Pasquariello, was one of '49*3 best. 
PUBUC SERVICE Although the event didn't involve a '34 man, it did affect ns in general, so here's a blow for TO M 
Morrison, m . Tom stepped up fast and defended ND football from a biased and obviously ill-docu­mented attack in a Virginia paper. Doivu where N D men are scattered and it*s not easy to step out of the crowd, Tom put such a sturdy and factual refutation on paper that the publication ran his lengthy review of ND accomplishments in full. Many non-ND people called and wrote to say: "Hail, well done." 
OLD NAMES, NEW NUMBERS No*** for some address cliangcs, alu-ays offered free to those who read this far. Tlicn wc*II sit near the mail box and once more await the mcrr>' slap-slap of *34 letters into the patented slot. 
Wives, are you going to let Mrs. Dalr>7nple be the sole spouse who'll shake down the thunder about husband's progress? 
Will KcUey, Kenney, and Clark be Iiistor>-'s last donors to the '54 column? Read about it at this same spot next month—but send in something to read, won't you? 
Please? Using the ND shift to new nddrt:sscs lately i*ere; Leland Kramer, 19708 Roscommon, Detroit; Frank 
LaBome, 220 CasUe Ave., Westbur>-, L. I., N. Y. John Paylick, 172 Grove Ave., Pittsburgh 29. Nor­bcrt E. Rasdier, 10112 Mt. Auburn Ave., Cleveland. Charles Sdi%vartzel, 2802 Lcyaton Road, Louisville, Ky. J. Albert Smith, 4530 Park Ave., Indianapolis. 
John H. Sulli*-an, 147 Bond St., Hartford 6, Conn. Klilton W. Barry, 5387 Pershing, St, Louis. Robert Hamilton, 5345 Hunt Club Rd., Racine, Wis. Lt. Comdr. J. B. DeWilde, 605 S.W. 5tli St., Grand Prairie, Tex. Paul Gallagher, 135 ^Vhipplc Drive, Bell aire, Tex. 
George MdinkoWch ('34 man out in '35 after illness) 97 W. 2nd St. N., Logan, Utah (head coach, Utah State). Daniel A. Young, Jr., Hollow-brook Rd., Potters\'ine, N. J. Francis J. Brady, 2330 Fort Pahr, Lincoln Park, Mich. Gilfrcd A. Burdick, 91554 21st St., South Bend. Dr. Joseph B. Caton, 124 Napoleon Blvd., South Bend. 
Robert C. Chenal, 1053 Loiska Lane, Cincinnati 
24. Edward M. Farley, 4609 Van Noord Ave, Sher­man Oaks, Calif, (all the way from Jersey). Tom 
A. Gorman, '33 man also claimed by '34, 604 Wash­ington, Oak Park, 111. (see McCabc's '33 coverage last issue for latest on Kitt>-)­
V. A. McCanney, 570 N. Alariposa Ave., Los Angeles, Calif. John L. M<^*cmc%', 465 Grange, El­gin, 111. Robert J. Mc>-cr, 88-B Hopkins Ave., Jer­sey' 6, N. J. Richard D. O'Connor, 217 Highwood, Highwood, III. John R. Wallace, 835 Pine St., Apt. 4, San Francisco, Calif. 
Hugfaie Dc\-ore has left St. Bonavcnturc to take the head coaching job at NYU. Devore's job will be to resurrect the university's long dormant foot­ball glories. 
Ed Moian sends a note on his new supply busi­ness in Chicago. "Started this business after get­ting out of ser%'ice and it's going along okay. Say hello to Cahill for me and all the boys of *34." The Morxin Supply Co.'s address is 2501 North Cen­tral Ave., Chicago 39. 
Charics Woods is doing well with the General Electric Supply Co., 840 S. Canal, Chicago 80. 
Ray Pellman was unopposed for election as presi­idcnt of the Ohio Probation and Parole Association at its annual meeting in Columbus. Pellman is also grand knight of the Archbishop Elder Council of the K. of C. in Columbus. His address is 3616 BrentAvood Ave., Hyde Park, Ohio. 
7935 
Fianldyn C, Hochrciter, 1327 Pentwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Md. 
From HOCH: 
We are sorr>' we missed the last trip to press, but we appreciate the editor covering us so \%*cll. We were smothered over the Na\-y weekend, but we question the extent to ^vhich it ^%'as Na\'y brass which had us down. Not too many 35'crs ivere in Baltimore for the weekend, but a few were seen at cither the game or the cocktail party. Several were in io.- the rally on Friday evening. 

Frank Hcdlihan and spouse, along witli Ned Ro-Wan, were here for the whole show. Vince Gorman and Alberta came down Saturday morning and stayed over until Sunday. 
Among those we saw on Saturday were Tarn Flynn, Joe Nano\ic and Ed Bried. No doubt we have {orgottcn many others we saw because it was only a fleeting glance—the Jersey-Philadelptua crowd left immediately after the game. 
As you read in the last issue of the ALUMNUS, John Ryan and Fat Lynch are busy working on tfac "50" Reunion with tlie alumni office. You mil shortly receive a memorandum and reply postal card asking you to let us know your intentions for be> ing with us. Inasmuch as ten years have elapsed since our lost reunion and, because we all have **inatur­ed" in the interim, we know ever\*one who possibly can will want to be on board on June 9, 10 and 11, 1950. 
Not too much has come our way since last writ­ing, but a note did come from Art Conrad in which he enclosed a clipping with a picture of Frank Dunn and his 13-year-old client who was being tried for murder. Art also enclosed a clippaig regarding a recent fight he had with the editor of a west coast Catholic paper. The Chicago boy won Ills point. 
Below is given a letter wc received in October from Tom Ouen; 
*'My second letter within a year! The shock will probably be great. Hope you recover in time for the class reunion. 
"Since writing from Rochester I have mo\'ed my residence to Chattanooga, Tenn.—the electrical cen­ter of the South. Electric heating in the TVA areas is really booming, so when the territory became available, an engineer at the factory and, yours truly set up a manufacturer's agency handling- Elec­tromode heaters for the states of Tennessee, and ^lississippi with headquarters in Chattanooga. Any­one interested in dropping into our ofBcc will find it at 736 Georgia Ave.—*Electromode Heating Co.' we call it. 
"If you want anyone in Tennessee or Mississippi looked up or phoned in regard to our reunion, I'll be glad to do it as I cover these states pretty thoroughly ever>* two months. 
"Hoch, I'm offering my help now for our re­union. If there is anything I can do I'll be only too glad to help. With my mother in South Bend I'll probably arrive in town a few days before reunion and I should be able to help get ready if needed. I've got an idea that should be helpful in getting a good crowd out. How about listing all those who plan to be at reunion at the head of your column cacli issue? Just keep adding to the list as the names come in. I know I missed reunions when I lived in South Bend because I didn't know whether any of my particular buddies were going to be there . . . *35 let's look alive in '50. 
"Hoclu you probably read in the ALUMNUS that I lost my dad in January-. [1&49J He was only in the hospital a week and was working two weeks prior to his death—still playing it 'tough.* His de­votion to Our Lady grew tremendously in recent 
The Class of 1933*s local committee for its 15-Year Reunion next June is making arrange­ments with other local class committees to alumni of a full weekend on the campus. Ever^-thing >-ou'II want—fcx>d, drink, and en­tertainment—will be a\'ailable right on tbe campus. 
years. . . . Evcrv-onc at Notre Dame ^vas wonder­fully kind to • my mother and m>*sclf. There were over 50 priests at his funeral Mass and the Lord, Himself, will have to count the Masses that were said for him. . . . 
"The only alumnus I have seen in the South is John Terrell, *38, who is the big wheel at Terrell Electric in Chattanooga—the electrical center of the South (Chamber of Commerce please note). 
**WeIl, Hoch, I've shot my wad, so gof>dbye for now and let's make this a real reunion." 
Incidentally, did you note Tom's suggestion for the reunion?—" *35 let's look ali%*e in '50." Let's all take it to heart and really surprise No­tre Dame with our turnout. 

We stopped in New York on our way to Boston in the middle of November and had an opportunity to spend several hours one evening, between trains, with Tom and Audre Proctor. Tom hasn't changed a bit over the years and Audre is her usual ^ul ­
The Notre Dcone Alumnus 
Ucnt self. The prexic is planning to be with us at Reunion and little Audre will likely accompany him. Tom passed along H'ord on sev*eral of the guys as follows: Bin Keefe is aa attorney in New York and lives in Bronxville. 
Jack Carbine had visited the Proctors recently and was owing them a letter. Of course, since Car­bine never responded to the needling we gave him in the column two years ago, we wonder if he ever writes letters. Apparently, he is Rutland-bound in native Vermont. 
As we reported a couple of years ago Andy Maflie is a councilman in Yonkers. .Apparently, politics agree with Andy. 
Jim Mahrott is reported to be treasurer of Noma Electric, with headquarters in New York City, and Jim Shcils is in a top position in the Investigation jyepsrtxnent of the City Government of the Big Tou-n. 
Here is one for the books, and you all had better hold your hats; Fred Brookmc>xr is no longer a bachelor. He became a benedict on Nov. 19. Flora Jane is a charming spouse who is doing public re­lations in a Chicago bank. Joe Myron was the best man. (Incidentally, Joe is one of the few celibates left among us). The Brookmeyers spent a Sunday with us on their return from a Florida hone>'moon. We congratulate Fred and say only that he should have done it long ago. 
Locally, we have little to rrport. Perhaps the most exciting diing happening to a 35'er is the fact that Roy Sdwlz is about to build a beautiful home in one of the more restricted sections of the Monu­mental City. About a year and a half ago, Roy opened an auxiliary office in the county seat of Towson. Yes, his opthalmological practice is good! 
Let's get on the beam, gang, and turn out in June. Get the letters in telling us of your plans, and please return those cards as soon as you receive them. 
Paul Brumby is now in Japan as a civilian em­ployee of the army, reports Gene Strong, ex-'34. 
Jim Shdis has moved from the post of deputy commissioner of investigation in New York City to that of executive assistant to the deputy mayor. Shells was sworn into his new position by Mayor O'D^^Tcr last month. His address is 86-10 34th .\vc., Jackson, Queens, New York. 
John T. LaForge, Jr., is president of the National Renderers Association. LaForge is associated with his father at the John T. LaForge Co.. Freeport, 
111. The information comes from Frank Rcilly, '37, of the "Soap and Sanitary Chemicals" magazine, which recently carried a feature on LaForge. 
St. Joseph County (Ind.) officials were under fire from Spencer T. Walton, mayor of Mtshawaka. for failing to consider new sub-courthouse facih'ties in Walton's city. Walton told a South Bend Optimist Club luncheon that a sub^ourthouse in Mishawaka would go a long way toward solving the county's courthouse problems and urged careful consideration of his proposal. 
Fausto Gamboa now holds the position of assistant chief of the economic division of the Cuban Slate Department in Havana. 
7936 
Joseph F. MansEdd, 349 Weaver St., 
R.F.D. 4, Greenwich, Conn. 
Robert T. Burke, Jr., has been appointed to the Board of Trustees of Louis^'ille University by Louis­ville ^fayor Charles Famslcy. Burke's appointment was made to fill out the term of Laetare Medalist Dr. Irvin Abell, who died last summer. Burke is believed to be the youngest trustee in the uni­versity's histon'* 

Except for scr\'icc as a. special FBI agent, a hitch in the Nav)*, and a term as assistant city attorney in Louisville, Burke had been practicing law in Louisville since receiving his LL.B. in 1938. He is now in general law practice with the firm headed by his father—Burke, Sehlioger, and Burke. 
Ed SoUivan is witli the law firm of Sulli\-an and Clancy in Mechanicville, N. Y. The address is 215 Park Av-e., Mechanicville. 
Edward Voorde is the new president of the South Bend Catholic Charities oi^anization. He was elect­Volume 28, No. 1, January-February, 1950 
cd at a recent meeting of the group's board of di> rectors. 
Another '36cr elected to ofBcc lately is Pat Fiiber, who was named chairman of the Indianapolis Round Table of Christians and Jews. 
1937 

Frank J. Rcilly, 1651 Metropolitan Ave, New York City 62, N. Y. 
From FRANK J. REILLY: 
Fortified with a two-page letter (single spaced, yet) from my old roommate. Jack Hurley; a hand­ful of Christmas cards and a couple of choice meetings at the Notre Dame-North Carolina game the chore of reporting the doings of the class of '37 for the Jan.-Feb. issue of the ALUMNUS js considerably lightened. 
In his letter. Jack writes: "I have been meaning to make my semi-annual contribution to your col­umn for some time, but it took a head-on collision tvith Johnny BrasscU to resolve the thought into ac­tion. Met Johnny coming back on the train from Fort Wayne. He was on his way to Taunton (pro­nounced Tanton) Mass., where he had been called by the death of an aunt. Johnny has been with Bendlx since 1940, has a couple of youngsters well on their way to being grou-n up, reports that he cannot get tickets to any of the ND basketball games. 
"Harking back a bit, where were you when the Rebels came to town? I saw more men of '37 at the after-the-game party at the New York AC than in many a long sunset any place else. Some of these men may have passed through your column in re­cent issues, but, if so, I have forgotten. 
"First ran into Bill Fallon who apparently was at least vice-chairman of the party. Bill was try­ing to sell me Chryster. Didn't really get a chance to talk with him (he was that busy), so I wandered on only to run into Ed Hiusking, who looks ho different that he did ten years ago. £d was passing out cigars in observance of his fourth daughter's birth, and the wrapper on the cigar read, if I read correctly, "Huisking's Home for Small Girls.'' Had a drink with Bill Foley, mentioned in your current issue, and a short chat with Dr. Fnmk Hardart. Single and still connected with one of your better hospitals (St. Vincent's). Saw the McNally boys in the distance but never caught up with them in the floating mob. 
"About this time, Ann (my wife) felt a bit faint from the struggle so wc retired to the corridor where I immediately bumped into Eddie Gannon, the old Cleveland pro now operating out of Stam­ford, Conn. Married and (I believe) no youngsters. With him was Dick Scannell who said his third youngster was almost here—and a vcr>' good reason why his wife wasn't. 
**AIso met Joe Quinn's nc«* wUc (and Joe, too, of course. Also Don Haiming, whom I have not seen since graduation day, and who is now of the FBI. They were waiting for Judge Walsh, who rushed up as I left (no connection between the two acts). 
"Sunday. I ran into Bob Wilke in the Hotel Com­modore and wc had a long visit. Bob is with Leigh Cement, lives in Stamford, has a couple of young­sters . . . Bob's lovely wife was \vith him—and the last time I remember seeing her was at the Senior Ball some 13 years ago. Bob gave me a report on Harry Marr, who is still in the Boston area, and who must be close to class leader with six children. More power to the Marrs. 
"Back in Schenectady, wc have picked up a '37'er in Dr. Jack Phillips, who hung up his shingle in obstetrics and gynecology about a year ago. He is doing veiy well. 
"Also, (it's the last one) I ran into Bud Scherer on a train coming from Bridgeport, Conn., last fall. Bud was teaching school near Bridgeport and living in Greenwich or Fairfield. 
"There, sir, you have your Christmas present. I'm sorry I didn't know more about some of the lads other than that they have youngsters. I prom­ise to do better in future contacts. Incidentally, our three are growing up, or so it seems. We have mo\-cd to a new location with lots of room and a whole house to ourselves. Still slaving away for the best known trade mark in the world (G.E.). ^Vhich reminds me I had a drink with Bob Ducey jn Chi­cago lost October. Bob is an engineer wfth our Chicago Supply Corporation housc^ and he directs 
a rather substantial sales crew—doing a grand job. 
"I wish you and your family the season's greet­
ings. We would love to have you come up and see 
us. Do you still go to Pittsfield? If so, you should 
give AI Bride a ring, as I believe he's still living 
in neighboring SpringiSeld." 
Jack, incidentally, lives at 120 Manchester Road, Schenectady, N. Y. He deserves a big hand for the wonderful letter, which I hope some of the other '37'ers will try to emulate for the next issue of the ALUMNUS. I'm especially thankful to Jack for covering me on the post-North Carotin* activi­ties at the New York A. C. I had hoped to get to the reception, but pressing things at home required my presence there. In ansivcr to Jack's query re­garding my presence at the game, I was there 
A new member of the Board of Trustees of Louisville University is Bobert T. Burke. Jr.,'36. Louisville Mayor Charles Fomsley appointed Burke to fill out the term of Loetare Medalist Dr. Irvin AbelL Burke is believed to be the youngest trustee in the University's history. 
witii my cight-ycar-old daughter, Justine, who ^vas seeing her first football game. Makes one feci like a staid old alumnus squiring one of his offspring to a football game and a Notre Dame game at that. The only member of the class I saw was Don Hanning, whom Jack mentioned. The only addi­tional data on Don I can provide is that he is with the FBI in Washington. The only other NJ>. man I saw was Brooklyn's Frank McGahrcn, '34, who had his two youngsters with him. 
Two other first-hand contacts with members of the class recently, include a phone call from Jadt Gillespie, whom I told you about last month and with whom I'm to have lunch after the first of the nc\v year, I also met my Parkchester neighbor, Mark Lonergan, who recently received a nice pro­motion with Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. He has been w*ith the Hrm since graduation, with time out for war ser\'icc. 
Among the Christmas cards received were those from Fathers Cronan Kelly, O.F.M., from Rome, Joe English, MM., and Bob Loduer, CS.C. Also from Ed Hoyt, Tom Hughes, Jack Hnrky, Hob , Peg and Mary Rcgina Kenyoa, about whom I hadn't heard, and Ben Scherer. The Kenyons arc living in Tarrytown, N. Y. 
In the last issue, I mentioned that Cy Stfoker had switched back to Salisbury, Md., after a sptU in Ne\v York, and an earlier hitch in Baltimore, following his war service. When Cy was here he worked for Waterman Steamship Co., his empkiyer in Baltimore. However, upon checking, I find that he has left that firm and has a postal address of Box 775 in Salisbury, which is his wife's home 
towm. How about lettii^ us kaowr wiiat yoa'ic itp to, Cy? : 
Oihen whose diaagcs'of MUK U hanre beca i ^ corded dnrias the past few aoatbs irhrfr- V U •oa ^ BOW Ining at 242 W. Heraaa, DiTtaa, O.; 
J. P. FnaTafc bcm WihuMtaa. DcL. to R. D. No. 2, Keaaett Sq., Fhiladd^Ua; Dr. Aitlnr F. Hnffaraa, wbo i> still ia' Fort Wajrae, but at 233 
E. Jeffenoa St.; Dr. Wflliam A. Liocr has Bond to toil Clevdaad'Ave., N.W., Caatoa, O.; aad Joe Loltas (a gar we'd like to hear all aboot £ • ncOf) fram BnoUra to 1513 Eboa St., Takaan Park 12, Md. Beraie Marty coatianes his Decator, ni., resideacT. but ^ves hh street address as ISDS 
W. Forest St. Jim Osfood (law, "S?) is tesaifiiw at 638 Deerhurst Dr., Wdister Graves, Mo., fidbwaw a shift firaai ladiiaspolit Joe Skiely's address is now listed as 2181 Priacctoo Ave., St. Paul '3, Miaa. Paul WiMoaer, about whom we havea't heud aa y thi&s in a long time, mntinnfs his Pekia, OL, rc»­dence but BOW at 400 Haiaes Ave. Jon Daly, earlier of Ligooier, Pa., lists his address Bow as BOK 2Sfi3, Youagstown, O. Dclaacey Da m has-switched btm Norwood, Pa., to Idkwaod Laae, Media, Pa. . ^ SaacaEas, BOW linBg at 218 S. East Ave., Kaaka­kee, 10., fonneriy was a Champaiga resident. Walt­er Tray has moved from Hammond to 9720 Mil­lard Ave., Evergreen Park, Chicago 42. We expect a letter from Walter in the next mail after he re­ceives his copy of the ALUMNUS. XZVj years is a long time to cover in one letter, but we kkow yua can do it for us, Walt. 
Just received word that Fm to be in Chicago for a conventioB the two ilays following what I ihiak will be reunion weekend. If any of you guys froaa the South Bead area (including Chicago) caa 9ar e the time perh^s we can have a little patty aad prove that 13 is a lucky number after alL Faa counting on Arch Gott and Joe Dorgaa to be therew Who else? 
1938 

Cbarles M. C«lhli««, Spocti VMaatf Departmai^ Notre name, lad. 
Fraa CHAKUE CALLAHAN: A Christmas card from Mr. aad Mrs. Joka Boarke informs us that John is now personnel aua­ager for the Weyerhaeuser (if the spelling is wroag, I deciphered John's handwriting incofrectly) Irmbcr Co. in Tacooo, Wash. He spoke of seeing Seattle's Jerry Kaae aad CharGe Osbora. John's address it 2601 N. Lawrence, Tacoma, and he said be woald particularly like to hear from Chad Sraif H aad Ed Wcape. 
WiUiam Rurick MabosKy, Jr., better kaowa as T-Bonc, was a visitor on the campus at the time the Natural Law Institute sessions were going on. He is now with the law firm of Moore and Roadriy in his home to%vn of Phoenix. The address of the 6rQ is 519 Title and Trust BIdg. 
Heard from my old sophomore roommate, Scott Reardoa, in January, but no real credit can be given him for writing. Actually, what he was after was. pictures and a biography of Frank Leahy. Seems Scon was on the coomiittce arranging for a February visit of the Irish coach to Sioux Falls, 
S. D. Scott's address is the Dakota Iron Store, Sioux Falls. 
Nick La^bsrto, from the sports desk of the Des Moines ''Register and Tribune" %vrites that be has had calls fmm Ed Brenaaa, ex-38 (fusmeil; tf Gary but now residing in Io%»a City, la.) Hal Kitcb and SoDop Ficedy. He added that Freedy called while en route to the Southern Methodist game ia Dallas. Considering the proxiiiiity of Dallas aad Des Moines, it must have been a delayed route. Nick was on the campus to help cover the lowa-Notre Dame game for his paper. 
Hal WilBams writiiig from Germany tells of not being happy with the Army on the day of the Southern Methodist game. It seems that lU , taUag time off from his Baltimore "Sun" coiiespoadeat duties, was listening to the game via short wave « • an Army network. In the final minutes of the ginai, with the Mustangs apparently beaded for a t^na^ touchdown, the Army folks cut off the gaaae to make'some military announcements. It wasa't oatil about an hour aad a half after the gaaK was over (at 1:50 a. m., Germaa time) that Hal iiiaiimiil the fact that youi^er brother Bobby aad his Notia DaoK mates had "emerged trinaphaat." laiiiVatali ly. Bob toU me the other day that Hal's wife re­cently joined him ia Germaay. Hal caa be'ieadnd (use 15c postage, the iastmctioas are his, aot wit) 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 
at the United States Press Center, Park Hotel, Frankfurt, Germany. 
New addresses on 'SSers, according to Alumni Office records .. . Joe Callahan, 18&-02 &4th Ave., 12A, Fresh Meadows, Flushing, N. Y. . . . Bob Derengotld, 1205 Greenwood Ave., Lansing, Mich. . . . Fliil Shidds, 1910 Grand Ave., Kalamazoo, Mich. . . . Ralph Hniska, 2208 South Norfolk, Tulsa, Okla. 
Tom Shids u-rote a letter to Hal ^Villiams lost August and eventually it reached me. Tom can be reached by writing The Modemaires, 6000 Sunset BK-d., Hollywood 28, Calif. Tom's letter in part: 
"I recently returned from a flying trip to New York, Cleveland and Chicago. I had business' in New York and Chicago but my stop-off in Cleve­land was for only one reason .. . to sec old **Hook" Kerwin, and his lovely wife, Alice, and their three children, two gals and one boy. Hook is fine. Still living in Shaker Heights and still wt h Thompson Products. 
"Saw Gene Vaslett here in Holl\-wood some time back. He looked good and had been linng in La­guna. He was planning to move up to Los .^geles. 
"I'm still in the music business. I handle the Mfxlemaircs, Clark Dennis and other. It*s the kind of work I like and California climate is great for my boys .. . oh yes, forgot to mention I have three boys, Tom, Jr., Peter and Johnny." 
Tom also spoke of hoping to make the wedding of Ed Ka\'an3Ugfa, ^v-ho was married in South Bend last Sept. 3. The latter, incidentally has left his teaching duties at Notre Dame and returned to Oklahoma. 
As I write this, I note in my capacity of sports publicist that Capt. Kerin O'Shea, of the 1949-50 basketball team is four points away from Johnny Moir's three year scoring mark of 780. (And O'Shea has six games to get the four points.) In this day and age of fire-w*agon basketball, it is certainly a tribute to John that his record held up for 12 years. Moir and his old teammate. Tommy Wukorits, are in industrial relations ^^'ith Firestone in Akron. 
John W. Laccy is new president of the N.D. Club of Chicago. Lacey's address is 7310 Luclla Ave., Cliicago 49. Phone: Saginaw 1-9083. 
Joe Kuharidi's University of San Francisco foot­ball team won seven of ten games for him last year, including an impressive victory over St. Bona­venture. 
The Rev. Eugene L. Dorc, CS.C , pastor of St. Ignatius Church in Austin, Texas, '\%'as diocesan di­rector for a Thanksgiving clothing and soap col­lection held in Austin. The drive, under the general sponsorship of the War Relief Scr\'jccs of the Na­tional Catholic Welfare Conference, >vas aimed at gathering soap and clothing to help meet the needs of German and Austrian cxpclces and refugees in the Near and Far East. Every priest in the diocese took part in the campaign. 
1939 
Vincent DeCourscy, 1917 Elizabeth, Kansas City 2, Kans. 
From \aNC E DcCOURSEY: The post card requests for letters brought in a note on the back of a Cliristmas card from John AVintenne^'cr, a letter from Andy Felker and a con­siderable amount of news. When you get the little card take a few minutes and jot down some infor­mation about yourself and those you know about— let*s keep the class news up to date. We had the good fortune this year to attend the Iowa game and to be in Dallas at the time of the Southern Methodist affair, so bumped into quite a few of the bo>'s for a little more information. 
John Wintcrmcycr ^vrotc that his progeny now numbers three, that after N.D. he went to Har\'ard Law School, and at present is practicing law on his own at Kitehener, Ontario. John said that he sees Frank Payne occasionally and plans a weekend in Buffalo for another reunion. Frank has two children. 
John Wintenneyer's note was on his card; and to this date have heard from Al Nigro (Doctor Al Nigro of Kansas City, Mo., for the benefit of the record), from Jc« Hurington, way down in Panama and that is as far as it goes. Hope more informa­tion comes in before the mails stop running. 
Andy Felker's letter (P.O. Box 71, Marshfield, Wis.) was hi^ first and I certainly hope it is not the last. Andy has been with the Felker Manufar­turing Co. since 1939, with the exception of a ux months stretch at a steel mill in Gary and three and one-half years in the army. 
He and Dick Umboefer had planned to attend the reunion but somehow missed the boat. Dick is on his own in the lumber and coal business at Plain, Wis., married and the father of one daughter. Andy also is the sire of a girl, now about four montlu old. "Wliat happened to Hugo Hilddiraat*' asked Andy, and aside from his residence at 17(K)9 Hilliard Rd., Lakewood, Ohio, we don't know either. 
A card from John Paul Stdli%'an announced that he had opened his own office for the practice of law in Suite 832-5, Paul Brown Building, 818 Olhre St., St. Louis. 
Now a question. Who besides Bill Cannon and m>*self went to the Iowa game? He didn't see any­body and I wouldn't have seen him if I hadn't literally run into him under the stands after the game. Did get to call Dick Anton in Chicago and had a nice chat but no \'isit. Jim Annstmag was a gracious host after the game at the alumni office and a great help in getting back home. 
Now*, Dallas was different. If you li\-cd within five or six hundred miles probably you were there and in the crowd we missed you. But enough were seen at the rally at the Baker Hotel (the grand­daddy of them all sa^-s a veteran) to make a ze­spectful showing for '39. Jim Doim of course came down from Rockford with his wife—if we missed seeing Jim any year at one game, at least, I can't recall it. Had lunch Sunday %vith Hugh Burai, who incidentally showed up well in his pictures in most of the papers. Hope we arc able to ha\'e Hugh back w*ith us in Kansas City in the spring for a talk. 
Also visited with Tom Leahy, now of Los Angeles, 

' whom we haven't seen for years. Tex Haggar put on the rally mentioned above and did a m^^ificent job, even though half of Texas wanted in and only a quarter made it. George Becker and Walt Flem­ing were busy little bees protecting the ramparts and not much chance to talk to them. 
Frank Parks was there, Walt Schortol, Bobli7 Scigfried out of Tulsa (with a personally escorted tour which included my brother Bill and his ^'ife). After the game saw Uoyd Worley at the Dallas Athletic Club as he was going out. We personally favor a game in this town annually. Oh yes, saw Joe O'Neill, looking just like his picture in "Life" and had a very enjoyable chat. Joe and Bill Castle­nvm (who was there but not seen) have done very well indeed in the west Texas oil fields. Dr. Graliam Owens of Kansas City was in our part>'. Tom Rear-don and brother Ed were there—from this point on I can't read my notes. 
That about winds up this issue from here, im­less Bill Dooley has some news to tack on. See you in a couple of months and for heaven's sake don't stifle that urge to write. 
F. X. (Tim) Bradley, a law student at Yale, is living at 83 Franklin Rd., Hamdcn 14, Conn. 
The big oil pool lately tapped in West Texas is bringing in dividends for Bill Castleman. He and Joe O'Neil ^vere snapped for "Life" magazine examin­ing a map of their oil well leases in the new development. They have one well worth something like 36 million dollars. 
Tom Sullivan has been named assistant secretary of the Central Hanover Bank and Trust Co., 42nd St. at Madison, New York 17. 
ANOTHER MAN OF THE YEAR Another alumnus has been named man of the >-ear for his locality. John A. Scott, '38, was selected by the South Bend Junior As­sociation of Commerce last month as South Bend's outstanding yoimg man of 1949. Re­
cognition came to Scott for his long record of achle\-ement in dvic and service cndeavort. Director o( personnel for the Sonth Bend 
"Tribune," Scott H-as described by the judges as having devoted coimtless hours to the bet­terment of the community in nearly every worthy civic effort. Among his activities were the Ihtardi of Dimes, Community Chest, Boy Scouts, P.-T. A., and several special radio and sta^ programs. A veteran of the Marino, Scott was named vice-commandant of the St. Joseph County detadmicnt of the Marine 
Corps League in 1949. 
Maaricc Frank, lawyer in South Bend, was ap­pointed a member of the American Bar Associa­tion's advisory committee on citizenship for Indiana. The committee will act tmder the association's standing committee in American citizenship. 
Ru l KcOcy has flown down to Rio. He's factory reprcsentati\-e for the Athey Products Corp. of Chi­cago. Address: Calxa Postal 20, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 
Matt MerUe is now a major in the Army .\ir Corps. 
1940 
Robert G. Sanford, 1103 E. Kensington Blvd., Sborewood, Wis. 
From BOB SANFORD: In a tew short months w*e will be having our first class reunion. Due to the travel restrictions and other conditions in 1943 \vc w*ere unable to have a good general reunion. This is the year of our big reunion and I want everyone of you to con­tact your old friends and classmates and start right now on publiciring our coming reunion. 
Bob Sulli\'an, Notre Dame Law School, is the Reunion Chairman for the 10-ycar class reunion this June. 
It has been some time since I have been able to gather the material together to pass on to vou. Received a very pleasant note from Mrs. Rosemary Thomas who informed us that Bud Thomas ''spent a two weeks cruise aboard the USS Cabot with the Na\'y Air Corps. He is commanding officer of VT 53 at our local air station, and in pri\'ate life in the insurance field—handling all kinds of policies for the Franklin Life Insurance Co." Bud's address is 1311 Louisiana Ave., New Orleans 13, La. 
Marc Grucnenfelder wrote during the summer mentioning that he might stop in Milwaukee, but ne\'er made it. Marc furnishes the information that he is now married, has three little girls and is li\-ing at 6004 College Ave., Des Moines, Iowa. We may Itave missed seeing each other last summer. Marc, but I certainly expect to see you at the reunion this spring. 
Mr. Frank J. Murphy has brought to our atten­tion that Dr. Frank Murphy "is practicing pedia­trics 1517 30th St. N.W., Washington, D. C. He is married and has two bo>-s. He served in the Navy in the Pacific during the war." 
We have a very fine letter from Christy Flanagan who is very eager about the class reunion June 9, 10, and 11 and who has this to say about the re­union: "Before I forget it let the fellows know-that our TENTH anniversary is coming up in '30 and that should be a big one as most of us had a preWous commitment in '43 when our fifth one was happening, at the request and pleasure of Uncle Sam." Christy is really looking for\%'ard to that reunion to renew ould acquantanccs. Christy's let­ter came from 17 E. Chestnut St., Kingston, N. Y. 
Quoting Christy: "I attended the N.D.-No. Caro­lina game in NYC and must say that the boys put on a great show. I missed the rallies before and after the game but Bob Ortale ('39} attended both of them and had a wonderiul time, Bob's engage­ment has recently been announced, but no date set for the wedding. 
"The local news is very scarce—I do see Joe Mahar ('36) every so often; I did bump into Home Mnrdock ('36} this past summer and he informed roe that he was teaching at Purdue and I must truthfully say that he has put on a few pounds since I had seen him last. 
"I have more news from the midwest than any other area through Hugh 'Dagwood* Laughna ('41}, but he is well remembered for his exceptional pre­dictions on the class elections determined by a room-to-room canvass, only to have his predictions blow­up in his face. John C. Brennan ('41} is now presi­dent of the South Central Wisconsin alumni; he is happily married and has two children, Mike and Terry; he is employed by a Chicago firm and doing right well by himself. Dagwood Laughna is cur­rently at the Ford plant working in the auditing department. Sal\ator *Ish* Andriacdii somewhere in u-ilds of Upper Michigan happily married and the father of three children. Johnny Kdleher is mar­ried and has a boy and a girl—Doctor John is now in Cincinnati and if his fingers are as nimble as hb toe used to be (remember how he split the up­rights with those extra points) he will make a name 

Volume 28, No. 1, lanuory-February, 1950 
for himself as a surgeon. 
BUI Brennan from Hawthorne, N. J., is married and reports that my old roommate Red Mathieu is still If>cated in the land of the king-sized mosquito. New Jersey. Eddie Jacobs is married and that wed­ding was quite an affair as Leroy Keach and Dave Fox were handling the arrangements. 
"While attending the Tulane garne^ Dagwood met Bill McVay and his brother who are practicing law in Pennsylvania; also Jack Dclkfoss, John Brodber­gcr, Howie RohaB, Joe Thcsing, Qiubby GitUland, Dave Fox, Leroy Keach, Bill Bums, Ste\-c Graliker, Mike Carr and others which have slipped his mind in the meanwhile. After the game he dropped over to see Father Carey, the rector of Alumnt Hall and there he met Mr. and Mrs. Tad Harvey, Mr. and &(rs. Rube Marquardt ('41), Mr. and Mrs. Hal *Red* Bowler, Mr. and Mrs. John *Doc' Carey. He saw some others at the Michigan State game, name­ly Brig. General John Henebry and Curt Hester. 
**At the No. Carolina game I saw Ernie Timpani and Dave Reidy." 
Thanks for the wonderful letter, Christy, I wish I had many more like yours to really build this column to proper proportion. I know wc will sec you at the reunion. 
Milwaukee news is scarce except for one choice item. For over a year now I have been sending commission checks from Western Leather Company, my employer, to a R. £. Connolly, an agent in Detroit. A month ago or so this Connolly came to our office. That is right, it was none other than Boh Connolly, but we never realized ^vIlO the other ^^'as. Wc talked about George Becker and Walt Fleming and Tom Hammond and many others. Have got to know Jim Foltz (*37) very well, and being originally from Indianapolis wc talked about many of the Indianapolis fellows: Jack Courtney, Keach. Fox, and the others. Ncal Gleason is the proud father of hb second daughter, Margaret. 
There is only one thought I wish to leave \rith you in closing. 1950 js our TENTH anniversary and our first reunion; let's make those days of June 9, 10, and U the best and happiest since our days at Notre Dame. Wc plan to contact all of you by direct mail giring further details, but reser\'e those days as we want to make this reunion a huge success. 
Tom liston is store superintendent and personnel manai^er at MandeFs Department Store in Chicago. 
Julius Wolff reports that he has completed PhJ>. work at the University of Minnesota and joined the faculty of Minnesota's Duluth branch in the De* partmcnt of Political Science. His address is 1515 Vermilion Rd., Duluth 5, Minn. 
Bill Kennedy's new address is 1306-12 S. Canal St., Chicago 7, III. (c/o the Kennedy Valve Mfg. Co.). 
Don Foskett sends some news on other '40 men: 
"At the Notre Dame-North Carolina pre-gamc rally in New York I had a pleasant time renewing acquaintances. While I didn't sec many of the class, the ones I did see were certainly a treat. Don GIl­lUand was there; he*s doing insurance work for the State of Missouri and at the time was in Boston on assignment. Piaul Morrison was also among those present. Paul Is established in Lynchburg, Va. I also saw Jerry Saegert, plus Vic Xfercado." 
John Hillenbrand announces the opening of his dentistry and oral surgery offices at 3593 Lcc Rd., in Cleveland. 
Paul Hackman visited the campus Tth. 2. Paul has two years remaining before ordination to the priesthood at St. Mary's Seminary in Cleveland. He reported that his brother, Dick, ex-'44, will be married in June to Shcrlcigh Rathbun in James­town, N. Y. Another brother. Bob, '38, is moving to Youngstown, Ohio, as distributor for Gibson re­frigerators. He had been with the East Ohio Gas Co. in Cleveland. Paul recently heard from Bill Meyer, who has moved to a farm near Hannibal, Mo. 
I94I 

John W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 Rarlington Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
BUI Hawes is sales manager for the Spencer Con­tainer Corp., Camp Reynolds, Greenville, Pa. 
An expanding course in radio and television at St. Bonaventure College includes a course in radio and television writing taught by John Maloney. Dunns the war Maloney was associated with the combat script writing division of the Armed Forces Radio network in Europe. 
Jerome O'DofMrd was elected president of the Fort Wayne Associated Catholic Charities organization. 
Above ore Hm Cowler. '40. of New York City, and Bill Cemey, chairmcm o! tho '25 Reunion, at the Plant Maintenance Show in CleTeland Jan. 15. Bm is editor ol tho trade magazine. "Modem Sanitation"; Bill is a salesman for the Huntington Labora­tories in South Bend. 
1942 

William £. Scanlan, Pullman Trust & Saving Bank, 400 £. 111th St., C3iicago 28, ID. 
From SCOOP SCANIJVN: Happy New Year! Let's start off with a report from Don Figcl, who 
came out to Chicago's South Side for lunch one 
noon. Don reports having seen many of the gang 
and here's his running account: 
"Jack Bergen lives in Park Forest. John Tracey went to Europe, combination business-pleasure. Was in accounting division for Wisconsin Steel. Mike Kelly handling sales for Halllcrafters. 
"Was to the Tulane game and visited with Doo . Martin and Ed Hackett. Don has four children, Ed three. While in Dallas several weeks ago met Charley Lohr who Is at Skillem's Drug Store, in case you're In Dallas. Jake Rickensteitt has three children and Is in lumber business. John Griffin Is with a commercial polishing and plating company; Tom Powers, Trib sports; Tom Cronin, studying law; Frank O'Dowd, HInes Lumber; By Kanaley, Jr., with Frank C. Nasher & Co., aidvertising; Jay Reynolds, *41, Continental Bank. 
"Dr. Jim Gorman Is with Cf>ok County Hospital and is a house physician for Stevens Hotel. Grey Hayden Is an attorney In Field Bldg.; John Wnert^ Standard Oil; Tom Dillon, attorney with Concan­non, Dillon and Snook. Believe Jade Wlg^ns is in Chicago and Emmett Wright Is selling Fords like mad on the South Side." 
Don, by the way, is the father of four—two boys, 
two girls. 
Some ^veeks ago the George Uhk postfrarded from 
Havana, Cuba, where George was getting his Naval Reserve training. Since have heard he*s back at 'Sinclair and living near Harvey, 111. The Jack Dinges Christmas-carded from Boston and Bob UU , with United Airlines, General Mitchell Field, Mil-
Avaukee, also wrote. 
Here's a communique from Tom Powers, who zs 
back in circulation after being sidelined awhile at 
Little Company of Mary Hospital. Tom says the 
report in the last issue of ALUMNUS reporting 
the Scooper to be married to Tom's brIde-to4)e had 
nothing to do with It. So take it away, Tom: 
"Had lunch with Bill Baader at the Sheraton. 
BilPs still working for a commercial art studio, is a father now, and this little story proves how It is possible to go throngh four years at Notre Bna e without knowing everyone in yonr class. BUI met Joe Qiaiplfy at a near north side restaurant oae night, had dinner and a few drinks with him lev^ eral times, was invited out to Joe's house once, and then one n^ t Bill hqipened to notice Joe's Notre Dame ring. 'Dkl you go to Notre Dame?* 'Yes.' *What class?' "42.* *FORTY-TWO, WHY THAT'S MY CLASS!' 
"Saw part of the Iowat>ND game on televiuoa with Jack MnOoy. ha l Neville tells me Bob SOO* sky and Ray KcDy were down for the Iowa game. Paul went to speak at a Quarterback CliA dinner in Michigan and fotmd the two of them in the front row, wmting to surprise him. Paul said he also had seen Johu y Kilhaar at N D recently. 
'".Vent to South Bend for the Southern Cal game and to the press party the night before where Ne* ville and I found Wally ZicHiiba, Bernie Crinumas, Ray Donovaa, Ray Roy, and Jim Ddaaey. Ray was hf»t to the Monogram actirities for the 1924 team and the Four Horsemen in his capacity as presi­dent of the club. He said he met Al Anaatara, who is with the Wall Street "Journal** in Chicago, who drove down with the Scooper. Jim said he enjoyed his Olympic trip to Europe and hopes to be in sh^;>e for the next trip. Also met B ^ Tow«er of the South Bend Trib whom I hadn't seen since the 1942 "Scholastic** days. 
"Rcunioncd with John Griffin, Doo Figd, and Byroa Kanaley, Jr., at the Communion breakfast at the Blackstone. George Mdtacr, *41, also was at our table. The Southtown "Economist" had a good spread with picture of Tom Nash, his father and mother when Tom Nash, Sr., became Cook County public adnaimstrator. 
"Attended the festivities of the National Associa­tion of Bedding Manufacturers* convention m the Stevens with Mr. and Mrs. William E. QaSam of New York, parents of Bill Qoinn of '43. They told me Bill u an expectant father. Luke T1cnaa*s suite, as hfist for Kaudcrs-Steuber, was the hit of the convention. 
**Talked to Dan Htldgardner's father who works for the Trib. Says Dan is in Indianapolis with Ditto, Inc., is married and has a 2 year old girl. 
**Found an apartment in Cicero, 4 rooms and just to my liking. And am sincerely grateful to a Notre Damer, whose name I can't mention, for the help.** 
We were sorry to learn that Mrs. Lora Lash-brook won't be able to round up data on the Class of '42 Lawyers in the future, so that meau we'll be needing help. How about Tom Teaiwry and Co.? 
I went down to the Southern Cat game with AI Anastasia, and his charming wife, Betty. They are recent additions to Chicago, still trying to get ac­climated after Brooklyn and Dallas. Al was able to s%ving a trade on a couple of choice Southern Methodist tickets for the Southern Ca] ducats. 
That's all, but don*t forget: IF IT'S NEWS, WRITE SCOOP 

Bernard F. Brdil was appointed manager of the inter-works sales of the laminated and insulating products division of the General Electric Co. BrchPs headquarters will be at Coshocton, Ohio. He had been in the sales office of the chemical department in Cincinnati. 
NeO McCarty announces that he is in law prac­tice in the Bank of Kaukauna Bldg., Kaukuana, Wis. 
Tout Grimes is stationed in Paris now. 
1943 

2106 W. Falkrtcm Ave., C3iicago 47, UL 
from JOHN WIGGINS: Thanks to Fred Gans, Steve Ensaer, ^n l Tolaad, BiU Middendorf, Bill Tracy, and Bffl Herng we have a more representative column this issue. These lads all came through with the much needed in­formative letter. From Dr. Fred Gans: "Was surprised to hear from you, but a pleasant one at that. I was mar­ried in 1946 and now have t«ro children, was dis­charged from the Army in Ai^pist of this year and am now in resiliency in pediatrics at St. Louis University where I graduated from Med School in '46. '*KI1 Sweeney is a resident in medicine here, too. Bob Owcas is in residency in surgery in Kansas City. Daa Ibgaa is a resident at St. Louis U. as 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

well. These are about the only fellows from our 
class with whom I have contact." 
Fred wrote that from I0I7 Sanders Drive, ^Veb­

ster Groves 19, Mo. 
Bill Middendorf sent along an extremely newsy letter: "On a recent visit to Indianapolis I got in touch witli Jack Reis and 5pc>nt a pleasant evening with him and his wife, Margaret. Jack and I used to sec a lot of eadi other when both of us served in the same PC squadron out of N. Y. 
"Then, early in November, the local Fort Wayne 

Alumni Club had a movie meeting at which several 
'43 men attended. Pete Aiancini reported tliat Joe 
Keusch is now a chem engineer with Standard Oil 
in Grand Rapids and that John Kerstcn was mar­
ried in September. Other classmates attending were: 
Bob O'Reilly, Eddie Hoch, Bob Shade, and John 
Slater. Da\c Warner, '48, gave the commcntar\' on 
the football film. He's a sportswriter for the Fort 
Wayne *'News-Sentinel." 
*'Ncxt was the reunion after the ^fichigan State 

game. Blair McGowan (now of Detroit), Leo Lewify 
Ed Rone>*, Walt Ztemba (Walt said that it was the 
hrsl gan.e he Iiad seen the '49 team play), and 
Fitmk Kaiser were all tJicr& Kaiser was on his 
hone\Tnoon and the next port of call for him and 
the Sirs, was New York and the North Carolina 
game. 
"Saw Jim Delaney with his wife M the Soutliem Cal game. Also AValt "Judge" Krauiec (\J. S. At­torney's Office in Chicago) and Vcm Pelleschoud. Bill AV'amick told me that Leo Leu-is is now an oil tycoon. 
"I know ihc class wjll be sor2->-to hear of the death of the mother of Jim and Charlie Pointsetlc. Please remember her in your prayers. 
"While on business In Goodland, Ind.. the other day I found out that old Sam Molter, now lawyer Molter, has recently hung his shingle in neighbor­ing Kentland. Sam is still living in Goodland and said he would like to hear from some of liis old buddies now that his school da>-s have finally come to an end. Sam and his wife, Helen, have three lovely children, the youngest of whom is Tommy, six days old this date (Dec 9)." 
In response to my request sent to Joe Callahan's mother, she has uTiticn to tell me that Joe, who is working side by side with Pat Dono\-an for Union Catljon & Carbide in Singapore, will leave that city on Feb. I, fly to Europe, and tljcn Iiome. He will have a \-acation of at least three months in the States before returning. Dick Crce\-y, Fred Gore, Ed Hanmhan and myself hope that big Joe finds time to \Tsit the Windy City during that three month stretch. 
Stc»-e Ensner writes a card postmarked Evansnlle, Ind.:"BiIl Middendorf is selling ecclesiastical candles out of Fort Wa\-ne, and drops in when he is jn town. I called Jim McElnoy in Norwalk, Conn., last month. Jim is great and making millions with the Mutual Broadcasting System sales department. Bill (Snead) Mooritead lives in E\-ansvillc now—a zone man for Che\Tolet. Bill still plays his usual **72*' golf game. I am still kicking the accounting practice around for a fct*- bucks." 
The next three letters were received shortly after deadline for the last issue, and largely concern the happenings around New York City at the North Carolina game—every letter witli a flock of names of *45 men: 
From Paul Toland: "Believe it or not, I haven't lost my interest in Notre Dame nor in the class, although I haven't made a contribution since dur­ing the war. However, I had a brainstorm during the past weekend and decided that I would write down the names of all the fellows from the Class of *45 that I saw and send them along to you. 
"Quite naturally there were far too many faces that looked familiar, but no one had name tags on, so I s^vallowed my pride and asked the guys just who the heck they were as I introduced my­self. I was with Harry O'Melia and Bill Herzog at the pre-game rally In the Biltmorc ballroom and borrowed their pens intermittently whenever we came across a candidate for your column. 
"The sole redeeming feature about throwing sLx bucks per person out the window was the fact that so many of the old crowd showed up. Here are some of the fellows we saw at the rally: Bill Her­zoff. Bob Madden, Bill Fisher, Mike Comerford, Bill JoluuoD, Frank Kaiser, Harry O'Melia, Bill O'Con­nell, GUie Hnnter, Geoige Rcbcrty, Jack Powers, Bik Waipick, Jim Fayette, Frank Conforti, John Troup, Jim Cooncy, and Tony Moloney. 
'*After the game there was a big cocktail party at the NV.\C vnth about 3,000 in attendance. After the crowd thinned out a bit, we could stretch our necks, and besides some of the crowd that was in attendance on Friday night, the following fellows seec«ed to be enjoying themselves: Joe Tracy, Bill OI\*aney, Jack Warner, AI Clark, John Tncer. Bill KfcAUister, Bill Tracy, BiU Walsh, Joe Noms, Bill Waldner, Wally Krawiec, Jim McElroy, Jim Maher, Bob Reale, Jim Murray, and Bill McCau|^ier* 
"Including m>-self that gives us a batting average 

of at least a turnout of 34 known '43ers with an­
other half dozen names I didn't include for the 
simple reason that I didn't remember them, nor 
did I get a chance to say hello more than wave 
across tlic room. All In all, however, we can feel 
pretty proud of the turnout. Perhaps next year 
wc might be able to hang a sign in some comer 
so the class will be sure to make a real reunion 
of it. 
"Incidentally, Jack, will you please pass on the information that my ^vife, Peggy, presented me with a 6'/2 pound boy last July ^ . Bill Herwjg's wife presented him with a 7 pound girl, Susan Ann, on Aug. 26. So, at least Paul R., Jr., %von*t have to worry about a date when he gets out on campus, if we can persuade Bill to send his daughter to the institution across the road." 
And then came the letter from Bill Herzog: **Just finished reading your column and I was disappointed to see that Paul Toland had not met the issue's deadline. Perhaps I can supplement Paul's list. 
"Paul and his wife. Bill Waldner and his wife. Bill AfcAlIister and his wife. Dr. Bill OConnell and his fiancee, and m>'self and wife had dinner to­gether after the cocktail party. Waldner's car was stolen during the game—I hope he got it back in one piece. 
**Saw barrister Wally Krawiec and Bob Afaddcn. John Martin, '42, reports Bob Martin at home with a broken back. Dr. Bryce Smith, '44, and his fami­ly were at the game. Bob Brooks is in his third year of Med School at Georgetown; he is doing ver>' nicely. Met ^Mlliam F. Tobin in Reading the other day. He manages the Reading Credit Bureau." 
Our New York Informant, BUI Tracy, \vrltes from 607 U. S. Courthouse, Foley Square, NYC, as fol­lows: "Prior to the Carolina game I attended the Met Club meeting held in the Biltmorc. Mr. Ed­ward Scheldt, special agent in charge of the N. Y. FBI office, and speaker on the program, informed the club that there arc 97 ND men employed fay the FBI as special agents, 17 of them stationed in Ne^v York. I attended the meeting with Ollie Hunter, Tony Maloney, Fred Doutel, and my broth­er, Joe. At a previous meeting I saw John Powers and Fnink KunUe. 
"Joe and I attended the post-game cocktail party at NYAC. During the game I spoke to Jack Warner ^%-ho was looking well and stated that he was in business with his father. 
"I went down to Baltimore for the Na\*y game and ran into John Harrington, '28, former FBI resident agent in South Bend, now stationed in Washington. 
"I finally ran into a long-lost friend in Ray Ccstary, who is presently employed as backfield coach for NYU. We met at a Yankee-Buffalo pro grid game. 
"Made a hurried trip to see the Southern Cal game on campus, but due to the raw weather I didn't linger. I had hoped to see you and the Godfrey bo>-s." 
As is fast becoming a December tradition with your reporter, I must announce the arrival of a child. This latest (and our second) was bom Dec 18, weighing in as a ten-pounder, John L., IH. 
Jay Gibson who was selling real estate at the time (Southern Cal game) passed along the fol­Io^ving: Bob Dinn was also a real estate salesman; he is located in Indianapolis. Fred Dutel, with the FBI in New York City, was a father of a daughter, Doreen Ann, in October. This was the same month that Dick Diltz announced the birth of his. second daughter. Dick Is in the coin machine business in Mishawaka. 
Bob Rihm was up from Knightstown, Ind., for the Southern Cal game. It was the first game he had seen on campus since graduation. Bob is working with his father in the meat packing industry-. 
Jack Tobin, sportswriter for the Los Angeles "Mirror," writes that a picture of Jim Armstrong, Tom Barry, and Bill Dooley in a 1925 "Dome" he was using for background material reminded him to send in his contr3)ution to the alumni fund. 
*'Saw Frank Leahy when he was here after the SMU game,*' Jack continues, '* and he looked bet­ter to me than any time after a season. . . . flight give you a few notes I can think of concerning 
N.D. men in these parts. John Regan, a class of '43 lad who was called into service, graduating in 1946, is now in display advertising for the Santa Ana (Calif.) "Register." Bob Webb, an S.C. law school grad, is in practice in the same town and doing well. Mike Frawley, who came to N.D. the same time as I, lives in Burlingame .. . he has two sons and is now with the National Cash Regis­ter Co. Dr. Tom Spencer is in practice here and doesn't live far from me in Long Beach. . . . Bill INUoo, another '43 man, is on the L. A. Urc depart­ment, harbor division. Joe Hickey, who left N.D. for service and finally graduated from U.C.L.A., is in business with his father in Vemon.Donnell Davis is business manager for a packing house In the same city but lives in Long Beach. 
"Sweeney Tuck, who played football under Lay-

den, belongs to the some parish as I, but I can't 
say what he's doing. Louis Joseph, who was at the 
University briefly after the war before transferring 
to Nevada, is basketball coach at St. Anthony's 
High in Long Beach, which is operated by the 
Congregation. . . ." 
Another Callfornian, Dr. Ralph Onofrio, is at 

Mercy Hospital, Hillcrcst Dr., San Diego 3. 
1944 
MHUam F. Talbot, 300 Main St., White Plains, N. Y. 

From BILL TALBOT: There arc two letters here on my desk from John Lynch. We can report that he and hts family are happily resettled in Birmingham, Mich., Box 348. This is mainly in reply to those who have been requesting John's address. 
Next, to make a quick sweep of the local news, we have a report from "Bladt John** ftfurphy to the effect that only three men of the class attended the last New York alumni meeting: Charlie Koegler, Jack Kelly, and Jerry Brown. Jerry, parenthetically, became the proud daddy of a future alumnus last November. 
John also relates the names of fourteen men whom we missed over the North Carolina weekend: Frank Stumpf, Ed Dowling, Jerry Brown, Joe Lane, Larry Gocbler, Dr. Jim Cooney, "Big John" Duffy, Aus­tin Jones, "Rocky** Sullivan, "Mac" McGinnis, Bill (Pcckskill) O'Connor, John Kearney, Jim Gibbons. Regarding Duffy and Dowling—at last report John was feverishly finishing up his tympany's fiscal year; and Ed was sawing away as leading man in a play. 
Add the name of another reunion sparkplug. Jack Murray. Wc bumped into each other in St. Pat­rick's in late November, when Jack was here on business. Father Simonitsdi arrived in early Decem­ber and was met by Ted and John Toole. Later Father ran into Jim Crowley at the Prince George Hotel. Jim reported that he and his wife were blessed with a St. Xfary's prospect. 
A carry-over from the last column: George Bar­isciUo follows up with the information that he pass­ed the law examinations and wx formally admitted to the New Jersey Bar on Nov. 17. Starting the first of the year, he will be associated with a \zw firm in Asbury Park, N. J. 
Aside to Frank "Mickey** Finn: "Black John" Murphy wants to know if you fell in. 
Jim Lloyd, married and the father of "two young 'uns," wTote to change his registration from the class of '47 to his "original clan of '44." Jim re­ports: 
"I run Into Harry Lavery once in a while as he , legal-eagles around town. Jim \^^Ison got married in September, sells for Celotcx and throws cars away when the ash trays arc filled. *Red John* Murphy also married, ivorks for U. S. Gypsum, reportedly, and that's all I know of the local citzenry." Jim himself is with the First National Bank of Chicago. 
Dan Foley writes from 212 N. Denton, Gaines­ville, Texas. You can cross out his address in Dal­las and Mineral Wells. Dan, formerly vice-president of the local alumni organization, reports that Sam >Ving now holds down that oflicc. Dan keeps in touch with the gang via the mails as well, particu­larly with Pat Kiley and John Koch. To round out his history, Dan relates that he was married in October, 1943, and now has three children. He is employed as zone manager at International Han.'est­er Co., and may be reached either there or at the address above. 
And a gladsome report from Dr. Phil Clarke who has been hop-scotching the country in search of knowledge. This includes courses at University of Colorado School of Medicine, St. Louis UnK-ersity Hospital, and University of California HiKpital, and finds him now situated at San Mateo, w-hic^i is also 
Volume 28, No. 1, January-February, 1950 
the hoine of John Cowdl. Phil thinks he will r e main in hb present position until July, 1951, as assistant resident in internal medicine at the Uni­versity of California Department of Internal ^fcdt> cine (San Mateo, Calif.). 
Phil reports some pleasant times he has had with Bcmie Scboo and John Lynch when they were on the coast, and lists several avid correspondents to prove that he's keeping in touch: Paul O'Connell, Father George Evans, John Kuhn, Lee Roohan, and Paul Marietta. He adds: "Pat YoUavich has just re-entered the Navy for a two-year tour of active duty in the Medical Corps. He spent last year at the University of Utah School of Medicine doing research on the problem of shock." 
We addressed a short note to Lyle Joyce recently and received a very gracious reply from his mother, who reports that Lyle is studying for his doctorate at the Sorbonnc in Paris preparatory* to a teaching career. This is his second year in Paris "having spent a large part of the first year mastering the langu^e." If he finishes his thesis as planned, Lyle will be home by summer. 
Add also this Bnal bit of information from Mrs. 
Joyce: *'Jimmy Crowley now has a fine son and is 
in business with his father in Spartansburg, S. C* 
A letter Irom another Sorbonnc graduate Cy Desmec, is full of information: 
"After my return from Europe, I took that fatal step: marriage. Wc have been blessed with a son, Thomas, 17 montlis old, and a daughter, Mary, age 4 months. My son tells me he would like very much to be an N.D. man. 
"I have gi^-en up my chemical engineering m order to take the position of general manager of a retail coal business (I. E. Joscfiak &. Son, 3000 Dan, Detroit 12, Mich.). I love the work vcn* much, although the competition from natural gas and that cx-Notre Dame man, Dan Cronin is quite a prob­lem. 
'*Right at the moment I am attending the Uni­versity of Detroit night school; working on my master's in modern languages. After the war I stayed on in Paris to take my master's degree in science from the famous Sorbonnc." 
At long last we have a word from one of our former class officers. John Anhut comes through with a copious letter bringing the Detroit area up to date. John reports that Dave Roney married Justine DePetris in November, and left for a three-week hone>'moon in Jamaica. John and Bob Fisher were in the wedding party. He adds: 
**Bob KfcDonald is a busy lawyer, while Jim Donahcr peddles stocks and bonds from a cozy office. Bob Fisher is struggling toward a degree in dentistry-. Da\'e Roncy is apprehensive for his Dodge agency now that the bu>-ers' market has arrived. I am operating the two hotels on this letter-head and am always looking for good old N.D. men who visit the fair city of Detroit." 
Make a note of those two hotels, the Clifford and the Imperial; and be sure to drop in on John next time you are headed toward Detroit. 
Ed Altendorf brings us up to date, reporting that he changed his position as auditor with Buick Afotor Division to that of junior assistant controller with the Red Star Yeast Co. in 1945. Tom HalHgan had a hand in the deal. Ed mentions in the same year "the most important thing in my life—I was mar­ried at Notre Dame in the log chapel. Bill Healy and Gene Came>* were my stand-bys." He continues: 
"Have two N.D. men coming up—Richard Lee, class of 1965, and Stephen Mark, class of 1969. Wc own our own home in a suburb of Milwaukee, AVhitefish Bay. Neighbors are quite a few Notre Dame graduates. CojTie Callahan lives one block from us. Rod Sullivan, Jack Hughes, Dick Ballman, BUI Graham, and others. Some one told rac that we had 40 Notre Dame men in Whitcfish Bay, a total population of approximately 15,000. 
"Wc have quite a few members from our class in our alumni club, including Tom Rolfs. Tom is an officer, but what his title is, I don't know. 
"Bill Healy, as you know, is married and has one addition—a nice bouncing little girl. Herb Clark is a frequent correspondent. Have had some correspondence with Fran Brinkman, too. He lives in Bay City, Mich., and seems to be doing all right as a lawyer." Here Ed ends with a note saying he hopes to contact Joe Neiifcid, who has been ill at Columbia Hospital. 
And now, our itinerant scholar. Hank Adam, who has been everywhere and seen everybody, and who h ^ been nice enough to send us a comprehensive account. Hank, as you recall, armed with a B.S. in chemical engineering, found a spot as electroiiic technician in the Navy for what was the beginning of "a most uneventful career." He returned to 
N.D. to get his master's degree in 1947, and then began his travels. 
"Upon graduation I was hired by du Pont for a plant in Charleston, W. Va., and went to work there in September. There were a number of Notre Dame men in Charleston, particularly working for Carbide and Carbon. I hadn't known any of them previously except Don Lcis, who had been a grad­uate student in our undergraduate days. There was a fellow named Mike O'Conner, too, but the rest were farther back than our time." 
January a year ago. Hank went to Tcrre Haute to be married, and then he and his wife returned to Charleston. Later in the year he had sui assign­ment in Wilmington, Del., and got to catch the Na\-y game at Baltimore. 
"^Vhile there I saw Tom Brennan and Joe SHtyifr*, as well as Jack McKenna and Jack McAndrcws. Then later last year, at Christmas time, we were on \-acation and spent a night in South Bend viut­ing Ted Cummingsand John Morrison. Ted has a little girl and little boy now, and lives in Seattle. John is teaching philosophy at N.D. and recently was blessed with his second little boy. Their names, I'll have you know, are Scan and Kevin. 
"While touring around (the same Christmas) we spent a night in Chicago and saw Dan Devraes and Julie Atwatcr. Before that I had seen Dan and his wife when they passed through Wilmington on their way to Dan's home in New Jersey for vacation. 
"Wc saw them again a couple of months j^o when they passed through on their way to Corpus Christi, where Dan has been transferred by his company, the Argo Corn Products Co. We saw Julie again, too, when he passed through Charles­ton on his >vay to AVashington, D. C. (I believe) for a fizny t:ruise, and he spent an hour or so with us." 
On his travels. Hank made a detour through Malvern, Ark., and spent a couple of hours with Jim Coogan and hb wife. Jim who operates a gravel pit in Malvern, promised to meet Hank at the SMU game, so Hank added Dallas to his route. 
"The night before the game I prowled around looking for familiar faces. The town was really on its car. The first guy I saw was, believe it or not, the ubiquitous Afr. Tom Brennan, who had been the first familiar face in Baltimore. Tom has his law degree and Is working in Houston. I also saw Bob Metzler, Joe Van Dyke, Sam Wing, Bob Mc­Bride, Pat Kiley, John Foley, and Tex Crowky. Metzler is in the insurance business in Kansas City. Van Dyke is there in the cleaning business or something connected with it. McBride is a coach at school. Wing is living in Texas but that is about all I know. Kilcy is in the automobile business in Marion, Ind." 
A few late scribbled notes: John Dnffy confides concerning Jim Torpey's wedding on December 26. Bud Aheam was best man, and John Kearney and Andy Barfaicre went along for the ride. 
John ran into some of the other lads too. Such as Bob and Dan Casey. Both are married and both are expecting in June. Richie Nicmiera, John re­ports, is playing pro ball \yfzth the Fort Wayne Zollncrs. The Nicmieras have a little dribble in their family, too. 
At the risk of becoming repetitious, here are the men who made the last New York club meeting: Duffy, McCabe, Koeglcr, Schatzlein, Jim Sullivan, and Jerry Bro\vn. The same old reliable gang. Add, however, Walter F. (Bud) Donnelly, who is taking advantage of his prerogative to switch from *47 to '44. Bud's address is 152 Home Ave., Rutherford, 
N. J. 
We have a line, too, from Bro. Roman Witowski, C.S.C., who was recently elected vice-president of the Polish-/Vmerican Historical Association, which is an agcnc>- of the Institute of Arts and Sciences in America, for the promotion of study and re­search in the history and social background of Americans of Polish ancestry. Brother Roman con­cludes: 
"While in Buffalo for the meeting, I had the honor and unique privilege of being the guest in the residence of Rt. Rev Bishop John F. O'Hura, C.S.C., bishop of Buffalo, and former president of Notre Dame. ..." 
And, finally, a compact and informative letter from Captain Harold Haley, in reply to a letter from us, which took so long that it must have come by dog sled from that Alaskan outpost where Hal is currently stationed. 
Here is his very obliging reply: "Since leaving N D I've moved around quite a bit. I graduated from the St. Louis University School of Medicine in. February, 1946. This was the class with Jenmngs, 
SliV 

Baib, Wari, KQMO , OMfriD, GaM md Inta ND. Then iateiailiv at the MHwaakcc rpMi ty GeMral Ho^tal, foUowcd bf foorteea iith' residency in sargay in aqr hoae town, MMBW, Wis. l a Jnac, 1948, I catered the Air Fone Md was sent to Fort Francis Warren, Wyo. YVhile Acre I visited Ed Nn«ent and his kively Samukf at Love­land, Colo., several tnnes. 
"In May, 1949, I was sent to Alaska and M I now chief of tmrgical service at the United States Air Force Ho9>tal, Fort Richardian, Ahnka. 
"In June, 1945, I was married to a St..Loui girl. We have one t%iro-year-okl dan^ter and an-" other child on the way. llie family ii here with me. ^ 
"Future plans are that 1 will be a civilian ^u n in May, 1950, and in Joly go lato~ a rcjearch fdlo«(>­shv at Peter Bent Br^bon Hos|ntal in Bmtcm, which is part of the Harvard Mcifical SdmoL" 
Then there is a note from that renegade T« ^ OTimnm, who has finally retomed to the fold. Here is the secret address where he has been bid­ing incommunicado for ci^teen months: 246 Wmb­ingtott Blvd., Oak Park. IlL Sorry we haven't room to quote hb letter. It is more than three pages long, single ^aced, small type. In fact, it is so long I haven't had time to read it. It will serve as the feature attraction of the next c^nnm, two months hence. 
William E. Carrico, Jr., was married last October to Alice Jane listings, in Denver, Colo. Wx h at­tending the University of Denver, specializiag in bacteriology. 
Dan Caoey is with the Reuben H. Donnelly Corp., 305 £. 45th St., New York City. Hts home address is Box 158, St. James, L. L, N. Y. 
Dr. D. J. Ronrfce is re^dent in interaal "•^'fiTiar at Ellis Hospital in Schenectady, N. Y. Ha hoeae address is 24 Gray Ave., Greenwidi, N. Y. Dr. Rourke hf^^ to be in private practice by July of next year. 
Chnck Umll a reports from 84 Colombia Ct., Barfoerton, Ohio, that an alumni club has set np shop in Quito, Ecuador. Chock vdio was instra* mental in forming the group, has been recalled by the State Department. He eiqiects to leave soon for Buenos Aures, Argentuia, where he has been re­assigned. Bradwr Lais Cialvci, '49, is in diarge of organizing the new dnb. 
The St. Joseph County (Ind.) board of cammt' sioncrs has appointtd John Baukuwsid assistant county attorney. Buczkowski will serve as connsel of the county plan commission. 
Dr. JanMS Constantin has joined the researdi and development division of Merck & Co., Lie, aaann* facturing chenmts in Rahway, N. J. Constantm, who has one child, a gxri, lives at 401-30 Acadcsy Terrace, Linden, N. J. 
George Barisdllo, Jr., announces that, following successful completion of the New Jersey State Bar Examinations, he has been foim^ly admitted tt> the bar in New Jersey. Since the first of the year George has been with an Aabury Park law firm. His address is 515 Fifth Ave., Bradley BeK ^ N . J. 
Crd^ton AfiDcr, now assistant attorney general for the State of Ohio, broadcast football games in CIcvebnd last fall. 
Frank Carver reports hitching a ride with JtiA Amato to the North Carolina game. Other news from Frank: 
*^ . . Gene Fcdnlis .. . is posubly still teach­ing in St. Louis. He is married and has some diil­dren. I was on campus last spring for Johnny Fn ton's graduation and greeted Gem ^ ~ 
. line for his law degree. Had brief visits with ^ Pleasants, Willis Nuttn^f, and Joe Tian^n, now with the Carthusians in Spain. . . • 
"I am still on the home farm, have liad plenty of good breaks and a lot of adversity. Am grateful for continued conviction of the wo^thwhHeness of worlung in the direction of the new ccmmiunity of Chrutian families, the begtnnii^ of which I have seen in Loveland, Ohio, and the Christian Family Movement (CA) near Notre Dame. Of course tiie land and decentralization are iileals whidh fit nicely into the pattern of these developments." 
1945 

Jjmcs W. Sdiacffer, 7516 N. Bajm^ CUeapt, DL 
Joae Cardeau, an ardtitcctiml gradnate «( '45, has been elected prasideat of tlie FHunaa Sodctr o( Engineers and Arcliitects. He retomed to FHnaa 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
last October after finishing graduate studies in 
Rome. 
Didc Murphy is the neu- manager of the Scars, 
Rod>uck store in La Porte, Ind. His address is 1229 
Pennsylvania Ave., La Porte. 
Rev. Mark McGrath, C-S.C, has been assigned 
to theology study in Paris at the Catholic InsUtute. 
His address is 58 Notre Dame des Champs Paris 6, 
France. 
T946 
John K. Stewart, Nolan Motor Co., Garden City, Kans. 
From JACK STEWART: 
Didc Cronin is a senior at Loyola Med School 
and expects to Rct his M.D. in June, 1950. He says 
that he lis wholly concerned with medicine and has 
no personal plans. 
**Nick" Gommisa is now Director of Athletics at 
Oakland Military Academy in New Jersey, He also 
acts as head coach in football, baseball, and basket­
ball. General Commisa said that he would like to 
hear from some of the old Sorin crew—Tom Bums, 
Pete Ridiiski, Granfield, and Molidor. 
Art Kemen was married this year and he and 
his wife now live at 215 W. 23rd, ^Vilmtngton, 
Del. Art*5 working jn du Pontes petroleum lab 
across the river in N. J. 
From down in AlbuquerQue comes a card from 
Frank Foss. Frank has been in Afexico City for a 
year and a half studying Spanish and teaching 
English. He is now at the University of New Mexi­
co working on an M.A., hoping to take up teaching 
as a career. Frank's address is 2134 E- Gold. 
At the National Convention of Young Democrats 
of America in Chattanooga I was disturbed not to 
see any Notre Dame graduates. Here I come out 
of school a Republican and then finally sec the 
light. The others go through school as Democrats 
and deviate. 
Dr. H. B. McGee \<n\\ start a three-year residency 
at the University Hospital in Ann Arbor, MiclT., 
after finishing his course in opthalmology at North­
western. He expects to \islt the campus sometime 
this spring. 
Rudy Lopez coached the "Scleccion Monterrey" 
team against San Antonio College in Monterrey's 
Industrial Bowl. Rudy*s team won., 28-0. His ad­
dress is Box 66, Fabens, Texas. 
Art Mosher has accepted a position witli the Col­
orado school s>*stem in Como, Colo. 
1947 
Joseph D. Usina, 219 $. Scott St, Soudi Bend, Ind. 
From J. D. USINA: Have quite a lot of news about the class this month. First letter is from John Klaher: 
"Recently saw a copy of the ALUMNUS after a long interim between cu)pics. Since graduating I have tra\*eled rather extensively, spending some time in Europe, especially Germany, with the Military Government. Returned recently and at present am grooming myself for a career in Foreign Service by studying Russian, and German here in the Univer­sity of Washington graduate school. 
**I expect to return to Europe in June or July, 1950. I really miss Notre Dame and would appre­ciate hearing from guys like Dick Haggerty, Don Jackson and Joe Maleno. . . .'* 
John's address is 5222 17th Ave., N.E., Seattle 5, Wash. 
Please remember in your prayers Gcoi^e J. Schott who died in May, 1947. (Word has just been re­ceived.) He is survived by his wife, the former Miss &fary Elizabeth McKenzie of Elmwood, %Iass., and his father, Arthur Schott, 2910 CastigHone St., New Orleans, La. 
Had a Christmas card from Helen and Rudy AnderaoD now at 1920 N. Rhodes St., Apt. 75, Ar­lington, Va. He refers to the Naval R.O.T.C. {second graduating class) reunion scheduled here in South Bend for Fdi. 24, 25, 1950: 
**. . . I*m stiU in the Patent Office and going to Georgetown Evening Law School—^half-finished now. Dan O'Doondl is also doing the same thing. We both hope to be patent attorneys when we finish up do%%'n here. This fall we were joined dou'n here in Virginia by Hugh Ward, his wife Afarian and son, Michael, now a year old. . . . 
''Unfortunately, neither Hook nor I can make the reunion, but w-e hope to see you next year at a ball game if it can be arranged. Had a visit from 
Gabby Hartnett and his wife, Helen, this last sum­
mer. They were taking a motor tour of the East. 
Vtnce Laurita really has the deal if you haven't 
heard. His folks were telling me that he is head 
football and basketball coach at Gilmour Academy 
in Gates Mills, Oluo, and he and his wife, Jackie, 
and son, Vince, Jr., all like it very much. . . ." 
Thanks a lot for all the dope, Rudy, and keep in 
touch with us because we always welcome news. 
From Joe Lauck weVe heard of a number of the 
Class of *47. He writes: "I was up your way at all 
of the home games but evidently missed you at 
them. I'm working here in Indianapolis for RuUy 
Tar and Chemical in the engineering department, 
and luckily not too far from South Bend. 
"At the North Carolina game in New York 1 
saw Jack Devries, J. J. O'Brien, John Caron, Des 
Currier, Lou Guiney, Bill Clemency, Jim Ledwith, 
Bill Bracken, Jack Kearney, Ed Stroot, Don Cisle, 
Larr^- Woods, Bob Clary, Tom Mulhem, Ray Bad-
dour, Jack Lebonte, Jim GriSin and many more 
whom I can't recall at the moment. 
"In October I visited Dick Ldte in Ann Arbor, 
Mich., where he is working for the University of 
Michigan's Aero Department. Dick has his master's 
degree and is fiontinuing for the Ph.D. along with 
teaching and doing research. We ivatched ^lichigan 
defeat Afinncsota in one of the Big 9*5 greatest 
upsets. . . ." 
We'll probably see you in South Bend in Febru­
ar\% Joe, and thanks for your long news\' letter. 
Ed StFoot is working as an assistant buyer for 
the S. H. Kress 5 & 10 cent stores in New York. 
Chuck Lugton has been recently married and is 
with a firm of architects in Santa Fe, N. M. We 
hear from Joe Fisher in Corapolis, Pa., that he is 
finishing up his last year of law at the University 
of Pittsburgh. Joe writes that Bert Dully and his 
wife, Claire, stopped in on the way to the N.D.­
Indiana game early in the season. 
We still would like to hear from the missing 95 per cent of the class. Drop us a note and let us kno\\- %vhat you are doing and who you have seen in the past few months. 
Jack Miles, still a poHo victim, wxts heard in a special interview over radio station WSBT in South Bend last month. Jack was formerly manager of the South Bend "Tribune's'* news bureaus id St. Joseph and Benton Harbor, Mtch. 
Bill Truska, Jr., reports meeting Dick Pearse at the Trane Co. in La Crosse, Ws. Dick is a sales engineer in Trane's aircraft applications division. Bill's address, by the way, is 2630 Blackhawk Ave., Wilmette, III. 
John Kelly and wife are liring in South Pasa­dena, Calif. John is working for the FBI. 
Two law grads of '47 began something of an in­novation in St. Joseph County (Ind.) legal work this year. Usually the county appoints individual attorneys instead of law firms to do its legal work, but the 1950 appointment for its Avelfare depart­ment ^vcnt to the law firm of Diamond and Miller —^Art Diamond and Bob MiUer. 
Vem AfcArdle and his family have moved to Rochester, N. Y., where Vem is organist at the Holy Family Church. 
George J. Igel, Jr., has been stricken with polio. Your prayers \vi\\ help him. 
Dick Bums is studying in Gottingen, Germany, with the noted Professor Heisenbcrg. Dick, who has traveled extensively throughout Europe since graduation, received his doctorate last year from Fribourg University in Switzerland. His home ad­dress is 1161 Eaton Ave., Bclnt, Wis. 
Professor Stritch's journalism department "pas­toral letter" for December supplies us with some more dope on *47'5: 

**Joc Conerty, noxV known as Sorin Conerty, grad­uated from the law school in January, at long last. . . . Bill AMcks is gradually displacing the Mc-Cormack family in International Harvester, now employee information editor at the Louis^alle plant. 
**Jim Clemens is a New York parole officer. . . . John Good works for a Fort Wayne construction company. . . . Lou Honung is some lucky grocery's assistant general manner. . . . Jack Houghtding is getting rich selling printing in and around Chi­cago. . . . Paul Limont is selling stationery around New York but wants to get back to Pittsfield. . . . Jim Nerad is president, no less, of the Nerad Oil Co., and a regular behind third base at Comiskey Park. . . . Ed O'Connor is a Chicago salesman for the General Foods Corp. . -. Jim Rc^an is doing sports for a Springfield (Mass.) set of newspapers. . . . Bob Shaw fulfilled his ambition and is runing a phonograph record shop in Tulsa. . . . Joe CaniD­bdl is with Transradto Press Ser\-ice in New York, after a spell with the Birmingham "News." . . . Jack SUy is starring for the champion Los Angeles Rams and doing some movie acting on the side." 
1948 
Hetman A. Zitt, Foundation Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Fiom HERMAN ZTIT: At the annual Football Banquet I talked to Joe Dillon, Vinoe Do^c, Bill Voll and Jack Randall. Joe is working for the South Bend Lumber Co. Vince is program director for Station WJVA, South Bend. Bill is with the Sibley Machine & Foundry Co., South Bend, while Jack will get hts law degree here in June, '51. Dave Thornton dropped in while attending the Southern Cal game. Dave is business manager for the Butler (Pa.) Tigers, a Detroit farm club. 
Frank Rodie's mother wrote to inform me that 
Frank entered the Sacred Heart Norittatc in Sep­
tember, 1948 and this September was professed in 
the Congregation of Holy Cross and is now here at 
Moreau Seminary. 
Brad Bennett writes that he is getting his M.S. 
in Education at Southern Cal in January. Rudy 
Kcmpter is in the insurance business in Banning, 
Calif. 
Pan! Reilly is at Georgetown Medical School and 
informs me that Faris Monsour, Pat Charbeneau, 
Tom Clcary, Jim Dillon, Pat Sdulder and Duke 
Joiliam are all 2nd year men at Georgetown Med­
ical. Bart 0*Br>en is working for a Ne^v York in­
surance firm. Joe Kit ^ is in his 2nd year at 
Georgetown Law. 

Leone Kfarinello writes that he received his M.A. in Theatre and Interpretation at Northwestern in August. Leone is now teaching Speech and Theatre at John Carroll University, Cleveland. He is also director of its University Theatre. 
A note from Bob Newgard states that he was married on Nov. 12. Bob is employed by the Tliea­tres Candy Co. of Milwaukee. 

Trom Tom Stritdi comes word that John Brehl is a political reporter for the Toronto Daily "Star.** Jim Butler is program director of Station \V'VLN, OIney, HI. Joe Cheney and Bill (G.) Mahoney are with the Schenectady **Union Star." John Noonan is a promotion and publicity man for the City of Boston and doing some writing and other publicity work on the side. Noel Digby is chief writer for WSM, Nashville. 
Marion Grancy works for the Indianapolis "Times." Jim Droney, when last heard from, was doing a spell of graduate work at the University of Vermont. Bill Harrington has caught on with Young & Rubicam '^vertising in New York. Gerry Hekker has abandoned the Bergen "Evening Record" and the effete East for an editorial job with "Our Sun­day Visitor.'* John Lau^ilin is working at Bendix and doing graduate work tn English. Bill Lawler is working in an Omaha insurance office. 
Tom BAattgan is still in South Bend making Stude­baker rich. Jade Minzing is working for General Motors. Leo Nolan has left hb New York adver­tising job to go in business for himself at home in Allentown. Jobn O'Connor spent a year at Stan­ford, now lolls in his native Venice, Calif. Eddie OmOiak has also followed the trend to Los Angeles and is now working there, Joe Rally is on the edi­torial staff of the Wichita, Texas '*Daily Times." Jade Slattery is breezing as a sports man for the Rochester, N. Y. "Democrat and Chronicle." 
Steve Valetidi is doing graduate work in Political Sdence here at N.D. Dave Warner is a well-liked sports reporter for the Ft. Wayne **News-SentincI." 
Bob Conaty is now living in Charleston, W. Va. John Cocgrove has moved to Chicago, 111. Cy Finne­gan is doing a little grad work at Wabash College. Da« Gatcns has changed his official address to Ma­quoketa (wow), Iowa. John Ker%>er after receiving bis M.S. in C.E. here this year is now working in Houston. Jim Kress is now living in Maplcwood, Mo. Joe Lyncb is now in LcRoy, Mich. Harry Mooer is working in Baltimore. 
Dcnms Nnnan is now living in Paducah, Ky. From all reports Denny Carroll is doing O.K. in the automobile business in Detroit. Leo Vetter is another who has settled in Los Angeles. Dick Bev­iagton now resides in E. Orange. Tom Conlcy has moved to Portland, Me. Bob Dvdffey is now dou-n at West Lafayette. KB Hoban is living in Elgin, III. Dkfc JoostCB has an apartment in Oak Park. John KHfia* has settled in DeKalb, III. Clarence Martin has moved to Gary, Ind. John Miller has moved from Cleveland to Pelham, N. Y. Paul Kigali has moved for the I6th time to Norwalk, Calif. 
Paul Wanvig is'with the Trostel Leather Co., in Harrisburg, Pa. Bill Weiler is living in Stanford Village, Calif. Paul Weyrauch has moved to Castle Shannon, Pa. 
From Bin Russell comes the word that he has been promoted to assistant buyer for a number of departments at Foley's in Houston. Bill met Tom Bums and Phil Lyons at the SMU game. John Mastrangelo and Joe Signiago stopped in the store while in Houston for the Shamrock charity game. 
George Ratterman, the New York Bulldogs' new quarterback, will finish studies for his law degree at the University of Cincinnati. Ratterman had planned to finish at N.D., but the courses he needs are taught here only during the fall—a time which finds him tied up elsewhere. George's contract with the Bulldogs, by the way, will run for four years. 
Comic Styen is a teaching assistant at N.D. on a math scholarship. He still works out with Coach Handy's track team. 
George Conley is now Fratcr G. Kevin, a novice in the Benedictine Order at St. Mcinrad's Abbey, St. Meinrad, Ind. His brother, Dick, who was" here in 1948-49, is also a Benedictine novice. Dick, now Fratcr Kilian, is at the Norbertine Novitiate, St- Norbert's College, Madison, Wis. 
Brother Joseph Paris, O.M.L, is studying for the priesthood in Rome. Brother Joseph took part in ceremonies inaugurating the Holy Year Christmas Eve at the holy door of St. Peters. 
Bill Braun, married last October to Miss Ginny Walsh, has opened a new architectural ofhce in Solon, Ohio. 
Johnny Lujack found himself on the wrong end of a $50 fine late last fall when his employers, the Chicago Bears, weighed him in at 188 pounds, one pound overweight. The Bears assess their players $50 for every pound they're carrying over playing weight at weighing-in time. 
The Januar>' issue of "The Apostle," a magazine published by the Congregation of Marianhill Mis­sionaries in Detroit, carried a piece on Notre Dame by Dave AVamer. The stor>% refuting the "football Factory" legend, gave the background of "the ^chool 
nobody knows," 
1949 

John P. Walker, Roche, William & Cleary, 135 S. La Salle St. Chicago, HI. 
Fram JOHNNY WALKER: Gentlemen of '49: I would Hkc to initiate this scries of columns about our class by asking you a favor. In unfettered English it is: let's Iiear from you. We are a big class, the biggest ever to be graduated from ND; and wc arc spread all over the world. So you see my difficulty. I am unable to divine your activities from the 22nd floor of the Field Building unaided. And if the clais of '49 news is ever to rise above the level of chit-chat about my local chums and itinerant insurance salesmen I run across in the Union Station or places of indoor recreation, then you must supply the bulk of the news. 
So, if you get married, engaged, find a job, get a medal or just would like some of your old hall-mates to know what you're up to. drop a post card to me at the above address and I'll put it in t!»e next issue oC the ALUMNUS. You'd be sur­prised ho%v many guys are wondering. "I wonder what ever became of Roscoc; we flunked Physics together . . .? " And if you're ever in town drop over to the agency and wc can go have a malted or something. Now, the news, such as it is. 
In the early fall, I had the pleasure of attending the wedding of Bob Lcandcr to Doris Rix at the Faith,' Hope and Charity church in Winnetka. Father Hcsburgh, ND's new executive v-p, perform­ed the ceremony. While wandering around the re­ception at the Evanston Country Club. I discovered such famous *49ers as: Bob Bates, Tom AfcNally, Austin McNichols, Bob Marquardt and Pete BroHn. Bob and Doris traveled to New York and Bermuda for their honeymoon and now are at home at 1008 Hinnman Ave. in Evanston. Bob and his former roommate, Pete Brown, are both in the advertising department of the Mystic Tape Division of the Chicago Show Publishing Company. . 
Second flcwr Dillon boys and accounting majors will remember Bob Henncbry. Bob was married to Shirley Burke in LaGrange, III., during the summer. BcA) and Shirley are living in LaGrange where Bob is working for his dad at Burlington Motors. 
Hany Englebrecht, mechanical engineer and Bad-in Hall man, also was married during the summer. Harry married Miss AUhea Dopkc of Elgin at St. Laurence churcit with your correspondent sitting in the back TOW. Harry and AUhea arc living in De­troit. Harry is employed in the engineering depart­ment of the Chrysler Corporation (longer on the outside, wider in the middle . . .) there. 
Bill Pfaff, ex-Wranglcr, English major. Washing* ton Day orator, has fled his native Florida and is now assistant editor of "The Commonweal," one of the outstanding Catholic magazines in the nation. Bill's roomie in New York is Lou Bums, longtime big wheel on the campus and *'Dome" award man. 
Jack Fraier still loves the old place and is doing graduate work on the c:ampus. 
Jim Howard, famed "Scholastic" sjiortswriter and defender of the track team, has left his native Fox River Valley and has gone west to Rock Springs, Wyo., where he is now on the staff of the "Daily Rocket." They tell me that Jim has a horse tied to his desk at all times in case a hot stor>' breaks out in the brush. 
The other day Joe Shidaker came up from the depths of the Field Building and told me he was working for the Zurich Insurance Company. Com­merce man Joe, formerly a Vctvillc citizen, now commutes to his home in I^fichigan City via the South Shore. Me, I'd rather have Jim Howard's horse. After the first of the year Joe is going to Detroit for training and will be then on assignment for Zurich, probably somewhere in the east. 
Dick Dietz, from Malvern. N. Y.. and a class­mate of ours who transferred to Cornell after his sophomore year, was graduated last June from that university with a degree in agncuitore. Dick ser\'cd as sports editor of the '47 **Dome." 
Much dope on the Class of '49: Pat Costello reports a $280 profit on last spring's Senior Ball. The total was divided evenly between the Student Council and the Bengal Missions. Pat, by the way, is studying law at the University of Pennsylvania. His address is 10 S. 36th St., Phila­delphia 4, Pa. Among twelve seniors at St. Louis University medical school picked for membership in Alpha Omega Alpha, national honorary medical society, was Jim Redington, an August, *49, grad. Member* ship in Alpha Omega Alpha, the only organization of its kind in American medical schools, is based on scholarship, character, and personality. Ernie Huffman is reported doing very well with the Chicago Motor Club in Gary, Ind. Frank Finn, injured in an automobile accident before Christmas, wrote to the Religious Bulletin to express his thanks for prayers asked by the Bulletin. "Because 1 am an N-D. graduate,*' Frank wrote, "you asked the bo>-s to remember me in their prayers. I am writing to thank them. I am sure their prayers were heard. I often read re­quests for prayers in the Bulletin. I didn't realize how much those prayers meant until I needed them. . . ." John Considine and his wife, Benita, an SMC graduate, have moved to Cleveland, where John is working for O. G. Kelley & Co. At last reports John was looking desperately for an apartment. (Cleveland alumni, please note.) More information from the journalism depart­ment's fall newsletter: "Carl Apane, poor fellow, has been bitten by the desire to teach and is now hard at graduate work at Bost U. . . . Bob Boger is with the Advertising Department of U. S. Rubber, Mishawaka. . . . Eddie Caso is training for big things with big N. Y. Erwin Wasey Advertising. . . . Tom Qemente is promoting the National Conference of ChrisUans and Jews in Cleveland. . . . Pat Cunningham is advertising dairy products (that's right, dairy prod­ucts) for Peoria's J. D. Roszell Co. . . . Dick Donogfaue married the girl and h in public rela­tions for Toledo's Electric Auto-Lite. . . . Joe Doyle is a sports writer for the South Bend "Tri­bune." . . . Jim Klockcnkemp?r is a reporter for the Springfield (III.) "State Journal." John Kreuger is working for the Elmore (Ohio) "Tribune." . . . Bill Lyman is happily doing features for the "South­town Economist" in Chicago. . . . Bill Mulcahy is with the Nassau (Long Island) "Daily Review-Star." . . • Joe I^edmont generally wears a powder­
ed wig and buff riding breeches while doing pub­lidty for the Williamsburg (Va.) Corporation. . . . "Louis Sanuano writes, but not about his job. . . . Eddie Senyczko is working for the Port Huron "Times Herald" and has drummed up a little photography business on the side. . . . Bill Sherman 
did well last season pitching for Knoxville, Tenn.; 
winters he hunts insurance for his father. .. . 
Alex Toth has his own advertising and pranotitm 
business in South Bend. . . . Jofat Wicmaa, after 
a spell with the Baltimore "Sim," has moved to 
the American Bitumulus Co.; I don't know what it 
is, but it spells more money, he says. .. . Bfll 
Zopaacic is in industrial relations for a Chicago 
stee! processing firm. 
"Bob Azar gave up trying to sell radio adver­
tising in Santa Clara, but was working on good 
prospects in I.os Angeles when last heard from. .. . 
Tom Brady is editor of the Thor Corp. (Chic^o) 
house organ. . . . Pete bmn i is selling printinc 
with great content in Chicago. . . . Jo t Bats o 
writing, promoting, and hanring the time of his life 
for Wilson Bras. Sporting Goods. . . . Lany Cnt­
nor is reporting for the Indianapolis "News." . . . 
Greg "HaSfSn is the news voice of a Baltimore radio 
station; yes, he married the girl. . . . IXek Unas 
is editor of the U. S. Rubber Co.'s Mishawaka 
house organ. 
"Pete Manl is teactung at St. Edward's College, 
.Austin, Tex., and doing graduate work at the Uni­
versity of Texas. . . . George McCartliy is etHtor 
of the Army-Navy **Veterans* Association News." 
. . . John Moran is doing pulic relations for the 
Charter Oil Co., Tulsa. . . . Bob Sksiet £5 report­
ing for the South Bend "Tribune" ana writing 
some first-rate stuff. .. . Plnl Shea is on the edi­
torial staff of the Boise (Idaho) '^Statesman." . . . 
John Waters is in the graduate school at Boston 
College. . . . Doa Wdicr has declined a promising 
career in public relations in favor of what he feels 
is a better one with the McGarry Nut Products Co. 
in Chicago; no cracks, please." 
Harry Engelbredit is an engineer with the Chrys­
ler Corp. in Detroit. His temporary address is 8346 
Central .Ave., Detroit, but mail should be addressed 
to 16157 Uene, Detroit 21—c/o M. Martin. 
Dr. Robert Lolces has joined the research and development division of Merck 8c Co., manufactur­ing chemists in Rahwxy, N.J., Dr. Lukes received his Ph.D. at the August, '^, ceremonies. His home address is 770 Stone St., Rahway. 
Bob Cleary is associated with the Pontiac :^ency in South Bend. 
John Bale has been initiated into Alpha Delta Afu, honorary scholastic fraternity for hospital ad­ministration students. John is studying for a mas­ter's degree at Northwestern. His address is Box 
609. Abbott Hall, 710 North Lake Shore Drive, Chicago. Bob Powdl is living at Red Fox Pass, Willoughby, Ohio. (Honest; that's right.) 
,^m Kestittg, married last November, is working in Toledo for Wermot, Taylor, Sanzenbacher, and Ihlorris, engineers and architects. 
Bin Fisdier found one big difference between colloge and pro football during his first season with the Chicago Cards: a pro has to have much more finesse than a college player. Bill said he had quite a bit to leam when he started oat with the Cards. 
The Graver Tank & Mfg. Co.. of East Chic^o. ran pictures and brief biographies of four '49 grads in the last issue of its publKation. "The Echo." The quartet included Cu l Eilen, Bob Campbell, Jack Nester, and Bill Hblsii^cr. All four are en­rolled in the Graver college trainee program. 
Professor George F. Driscnll of the Department of Civil Engineering has provided the following com­prehensive report on the present locations of some of the '49 civil engineers: 
Leonard Arnold, Illinois Department of Highways, Peoria, 111., Civil Engineer I: Charles J. Baaman, Hunter, CsUdwell & Campbell, architects, Altoona, Pa., Inspector; WnEam L. Carter, City of Milwau­kee Street Denartment, Milwaukee. Wis., Civil En­gineer I: WnHam A. Dnritin, Fuller &: Co., UN Headquarters, New York City, Engineer; Francis 
A. Forgiooe, Army Engineers, dam at Mt. Morris, 
N. Y., En^^eer P-1; Norman Hcnnessy, Material 
•Service Corp., Lyons. lU., Engineer; George Lesser, Wisconsin Sute Highway Dcpt., Eau Clair, Wis., Engineer I. 
Harry A. Qmnn, Deleuw, Gather & Co., Chica­go, III., Esthnator on New Jersey Turnpike Project; Eric J. Scott, Pennsylvania Turnpike Comnussion, Downington, Pa., Inspector; Benjamtn Saulb, City of Milwaukee Street Dept., Mil%iraukee, Wis., Civil Engineer I: Robert Tienwy, Ohio Highway De­partment, Sidney, Ohio, Engineer-in-Training; Fn l West, Highway Department, Ean Claire, Wis., En­gineer I; Jowph Wniet, L. & N. Railroad, Ei ^ neer; Raymond P. Ziak, Alaska Road Commission, Haines, Alaska, Engineer I. 
Summary of Gifts and Grants in 1949 
The goal of the Notre Dame Foundation in 1949 was to raise $1,400,000.00 for the New Science Building. Although the University was the recipient of more gifts and more money in 1949 than in any other year, the amount raised towards the Science Building was only $484,365.36. The condensed summary of all gifts is as follows: 
Science Building Fund $ 484,365.36 Other BuUding Funds 754,273.50 Special Funds and Restricted Gifts 685,902.81 Research Fellowships and Grants 407,305.70 Gifts of Equipment Valued at 84,800.00* 
Total $2,416,647.37 
HIGHLIGHT GIFTS OF 1949  
The Fred J. and SaUy Fisher Memorial Dormitory.  $750,000.00  
The Fred J. and SaUy Fisher Educational Fund  250,000.00  
I. A. O'Shaughness)  Fine Arts Foundation  100,000.00  
Ernest M. Morris Foundation  78,500.00  
Rockefeller  Foundation  69,000.00  
Atomic Energy Commission  (2,000,000-Volt Atom Smasher)  59,800.00*  
William J. Corbett Estate  40,000.00  
Michael P. Grace Trust  ...  31,000.00  
The Kresge Foundation  25,000.00  
Damon Runyon Cancer Fund  ..  25,000.00  

Since $915,634.64 is still needed for the Science Building, the ef­forts of the Foimdation in 1950 will be directed towards this end. In addition, the Foundation will continue to foster gifts for special pur­poses so vitally necessary to the over-all program of the University. 
• $59,800.00 Atom Smasher included in the figure $84,800.00 Gifts of Equipment 
MASTER TABLE 
Reflecting Gifts by Alumni and Friends for 1948-1949 in 228 Chainnan CSties 
ALUMNI  FRIENDS  TOTAL  
Number  Number  Number  1M9  "0»er" or  
State and City  Number  Giving  Amount  Giving  Amount  Gnins  Amoant  Share  AmLlTader  
ALABAMA  
Birmingham  6  6  $  55.00  $  6  $ 55.00  
7  4  35.00  4  35.00  1  300  $ 265.00  
Non-Chair.  Cities  ....  10  3  40.00  1  100.00  4  140.00  
14  5  33.00  1  100.00  6  133.00  200  67.00  
STATE TOTALS  16  9  95.00  1  100.00  10  195.00  
21  9  68.00  I  100.00  10  168.00  500  332.00  
ARIZONA  
30  19  710.00  1  5.00  20  715.00  
33  16  325.00  2  2.00  18  327.00  1,000  673.00  
21  21  462.00  21  462.00  
22  ....  ....  «.­ *-™  1,000  1,000.00  
Non-Chair.  Cities  S  4  85.00  4  85.00  
9  2  6.00  —  2  6.00  200  194.00  
STATE TOTALS  59  44  1,257.00  1  5.00  45  1,262.00  
64  18  331.00  2  2.00  20  333.00  2,200  1,867.00  
ARKANSAS  
Little  Rock  10  3  35.00  3  35.00  
14  U  72.50  11  72.50  300  227.50  
Non-Chair.  Cities  —  16  7  140.00  7  140.00  
STATE TOTALS  19 26  11 10  128.00 175.00  _z:  —  11 10  128.00 175.00  300  172.00  
33  22  200.50  .._  22  200.50  600  399.50  
C.\LIFORNlA  
376 401  228 185  6,585.80 4,610.25  25 12  4,021.00 5,405.00  253 197  10,606.80 10,015.25»  75,000  64,984.75  
146  81  1,151.00  5  131.00  86  1,282.00  
168  7.4  926.50  8  1,710.00  82  2,636.50  10,000  7,363.50  
Non-Chair.  Cities  —  99  60  3,916.50  1  10.00  61  3,926.50  
97  43  565.50  1  5.00  44  570.50  5,000  4,429.50  
STATE TOT.\LS  621  369  11,653.30  ~31  4,162.00  400  15,815.30  
666  302  •  6,102.25  21  7,120.00  323  13.222.25  90,000  76,777.75  
COLORADO  
?  3  160.00  5  75.00  8  235.00  
9  4  328.00  5  115.00  9  443.00  300  Over  
93  45  657.50  45  657.50  
91  33  596.00  1  25.66  34  621.00  4,000  3,379.00  
Pueblo  4  2  25.00  1  10.00  3  35.00  
6  2  4.00  1  25.00  3  29.00  200  171.00  
Trinidad  5  1  15.00  1  15.00  
4  1  10.00  1  10.00  200  i9o:oo  
Xon-Chair.  Cities  ....  4  2  20.00  2  20.00  
3  3  25.00  ....  3  25.00  300  275.00  
114  53  877.50  6  85.00  59  962.50  
115  43  963.00  7  165.00  50  1,128.00  5,000  3,872.00  
CONNECTICUT  
Hartford  77  49  1,795.50  2  20.00  51  1,815.50  
86  54  2,533.50  2  60.00  56  2,593.50  2,500  Over  
21  13  316.00  1  10.00  14  326.00  
27  18  342.00  3  26.00  21  368.00  500  132.00  
Non-Chair.  Cities  ....  139  40  456.50  3  77.79  43  534.29  
124  56  926.00  1  35.00  57  961.00  1,000  39.00  
237  102  2,568.00  6  107.79  108  2,675.79  
237  128  3,801.50  6  121.00  134  3,922.50  4,000  77.50  
DELAWARE  
25  12  145.00  12  145.00  
25  10  180.00  1  2,800.00  11  2,980.00»  500  ~  Over  

First line of city reflects 1948; second, 1949. 
ss 

ALUl^mi  FRIENDS  TOTAL  
State and City  Number Giving  Amount  Number Giving  Amount  Number Ginng  Amount  1949 Share  "Over** or Amt. Under  
Non-Chair.  Cities  ....  5  37.00  5  37.00  
4  50.00  4  50.00  200  150.00  
STATE TOTALS  33  17  182.00  17  182.00  
34  14  230.00  2,800.00  15  3,030.00  700  0\-er  
DIST. OF COLUMBIA  
Washington  222 269  102 138  2,841.25 19,048.00  35.00 435.25  105 145  2,876.25 19,483.25*  10,000  0\-er  
FLORIDA  
Ft. LauderdaleJacksonvilleLakelandMiami  9 9  11 11 2 2  50  8 6 5 3 2 2 33  150.00 1,135.00 457.00 575.00 10.00 10.00 1,147.00  15  10,100.00 5,150.00 310.00  10 9 5 3 2 2 48  10,250.00 6,285.00 457.00 575.00 10.00 10.00 1,457.00  13,000 1,000 200  6,715.00 425.00 190.00  
Palm Beach 66 7  43 1  2,251.04 5.00  46 3  851.50 1,225.00  89 4  3,102.54 1,230.00  1,676  Over  
Non-Chair.  Cities 4  35  1 12  5.00 233.00  1 1  50.00 100.00  2 13  55.00 333.00  400  345.00  
37  9  102.00  1  6,800.00  10  6,902.00  400  Over  
STATE TOTALS  114  61  2,002.00  21  11,735.00  82  13,737.00  
129  64  4,078.04  51  12,851.50  115  16,929.54  16,676  0\e r  
GEORGIA  
Atlanta  13  2  215.00  2  215.00  
11  2  215.00  100.00  3  315.00  1,000  685.00  
Non-Chair.  Cities  11  5  29.00  5  29.00  
16  7  61.00  8.00  10  69.00  200  131.00  
STATE TOTALS  24  T"  244.00  7  244.00  
27  9  276.00  108.00  13  384.00  1,200  816.00  
IDAHO  
Boise  9  1  3.00  166.12  2  .169.12  
9  4  29.00  4  29.00  750  721.00  
Idaho  Falls  7  5  53.00  5  53.00  
6  2  27.00  2  27.00  200  173.00  
Lewiston  2  2  3.00  2  3.00  
2  1  5.00  1  5.00  
Non-Chair.  Cities  3  1  15.00  1  15.00  
4  75.00  I  75.00  200  125.00  
STATE TOTALS  21  9  74.00  1  166.12  10  240.12  
21  7  61.00  1  75.00  8  136.00  1,150  1,014.00  
ILLINOIS  
ChicagoJolict  1554 1786  35  737 830 24  13,954.00 58,804.92 213.00  79 108 3  40,483.50 98,267.00 50.00  816 938 27  54,437.50 157,071.92» 263.00  250,000  92,928.08  
37  20  376.30  1  200.00  21  576.30*  500  0\-er  
Moline  11  4  30.00  4  30.00  
14  6  157.00  6  157.00  200  43.00  
Peoria  93  46  2,683.50  1,950.00  50  4,633.50  
Rockford 103  76  49 39  796.50 1,639.00  8,250.00 3,650.00  51 43  9,046.50* 5,289.00  6,500  Over  
Rock Island 79  11  39 8  2,326.00 190.00  4,009.00  44 8  6,335.00* 190.00  15,000  8,665.00  
SpringfieldSterlingNon-Chair.  Cities 11  63 70  14 14  354 272  7 36 35 9 11 161 124  275.00 553.00 499.50 242.00 273.00 2,059.00 1,656.50  1 1 1 8 3  200.00 50.00 5.00 4,515.00 145.00  7 37 36 10 11 169 127  275.00 753.00 549.50 247.00 273.00 6,574.00 1,801.50  350 1,000 400 12,000  75.00 450.50 127.00 10,198.50  
STATE TOTALS  2211  1064  21,563.50  Too  50,853.50  1164  72,417.00  
INDIANA  2386  1121  65,164.72  120  110,921.00  1241  176,085.72  285,950  109,864.28  
Anderson  14  2  30.00  2  30.00  
15  9  1,283.00  12  2,060.00  21  3,343.'00  300  Oxer  
Bedford  .  7  5  75.00  5  75.00  
7  4  47.00  4  47.00  200  153.00  

First line of dty reflects 1948; second, 1949. 
ALUMNI FRIENDS TOTAL 
State aod City  Number  Numbex Giving  Amount  Number Giving  Amount  NniAer Giving.  Aaooat  1M9 Skate  "Over" er ABC trader  
East  Chicago  12  9  367.00  4  235.00  13  602.00  
Elkhart£\-ansvillc  — 17  25 32  31  13 10 16 22  365.00 325.00 416.00 620.40  26 5 1  1,100.00 1,165.00 50.00  39 15 17 22  1,465.00 1,490.00 466.00 620.40  1,000 2,000  Over 1,534.00  
Fort WayneGary 37  118 140  45  25 90 74 21  12,354.00 7,752.00 2,294.00 445.00  23 9 2  4,590.84 540.00 150.00  25 113 83 23  12,354.00 12,342.84 2,834.00 595.00  1,000 20,000  Owr 17,166.00  
Hammond 50  25  21 15  670.00 324.00  12 2  1,525.00 525.00  33 17  2,195.00 849.00  1,000  Ova- 
IndianapolisKokomo 26  273 303 9  15 181 175 8  396.00 4,400.60 4,437.00 507.00  5 7 5 4  800.00 187.00 528.66 335.00  20 188 180 12  1,196.00» 4,587.60 4,965.66» 842.00  750 25,000  Over 20,034.34  
Lafayette 10  16  9 9  541.00 720.00  6  495.00  15 9  1,036.00 720.00  1,000  Over  
I.aporte 19  16  9 5  481.50 34.00  100.00  9 6  481.50* 134.00  1,500  1,018.50  
25  7  23.00  100.00  8  123.00  300 •  177.00  
Logansport  12  5  85.00  5  85.00  
13  5  111.00  5  111.00  500  389.00  
Marion  16  10  120.00  10  120.00  
17  10  96.00  10  96.00  
Michigan Cit>­  32  18  341.00  20.00  19  361.00  
37  19  882.50  19  882.50  600  Over  
Muncie  16  9  65.00  9  65.00  
16  9  115.00  2  150.00  11  265.00  30O  35.00  
Notre DamePlymouth  81 87 8 8  34 41 5 5  306.00 309.00 79.00 72.00  5 14  8,254.73 10,191.00  39 55 5 5  8,560.73 10,500.00» 79.00 72.00  15,000 500  4,500.00 428.00  
RichmondSouth BendTerre HauteVincennes\VhitingNon-Chair. CitiesSTATE TOTALS  —. ....  11 14  800 952  14 17  11 9  15 20  164 189  1771  9 8 425 442 9 11 9 5 10 13 70 82 990  550.00 1,090.00 26,736.75 87,755.75 280.00 476.00 125.00 45.00 210.00 285.00 833.25 863.17 45,331.00  17 34 26 39 2 1 4 3 4 To!  1,291.00 3,275.00 9,417.00 10,457.80 2,000.00 •52.00 25.00 270.00 81.25 155.00 26,376.82  26 42 451 481 9 12 9 7 11 17 73 86 1091  1,841.00 4,365.00 36,153.75 98,213.55* 280.00 2.476.00 125.00 97.00 235.00 555.00 914.50 1,018.17 71,707.82  2,000 125,000 500 200 300 13,200  Over 26,786.45 Over 103.00 Over 12,181.83  
2060  1027  115,407.92  177  33,749.46  1204  149,157.38  212,150  62,992.62  
IOWA .MgonaDavenportDcs MoinesDubuqueFort MadisonMuscatineNon-Chair. Cities  ....  1 1  21 26  30 35  ^1 32 3 3 7 7  101  1 1 16 17 16 17 18 8 3 2 7 5 48 65  5.00 10.00 471.00 914.00 303.00 193.00 190.00 124.00 123.50 218.75 809.00 322.00 2.143.00 894.00  20.00 1,620.00 270.00 50.00 5.00  1 1 16 17 17 20 18 8 3 2 11 6 49 65  5.00 10.00 471.00 914.00 323.00 1,813.00 190.00 124.00 123.50 218.75 1,079.00 372.00 2,148.00 894.00  1,0003,5001,0002,000 1,000   86.00  1,687.00  876.00 1,628.00 106.00  
140  
STATE TOTALS  204 244  109 115  4,044.50 2,675.75  295.00 1,670.00  115 119  4,339.50 4,345.75  8,500  4,154.25  
K.\NSAS Salina .  6 8  6 7  190.00 245.00  6 7  190.00 245.00  400  155.00  
Non-Chair.  Cities  ....  34 62  24 25  441.00 283.00  50.00  24 26  441.00 333.00  600  267.00  
STATE TOT.^LS  l o 70  ~30^ 32  631.00 528.00  50.00  30 33  631.00 578.00  1,000  422.00  

First line of city reflects 1948; second, 1949. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ALtfMNI  FRIENDS  TOTAL  
Slate and  Oty  Number Number  Giwng  Amount  Number Ghing  Arootmt  Number Ghrng  Amount  1949 Share  "Cher" or Amt. Under  
KENTUCKY  
Covington Lexington louisville Non-Chair.  Cities  ..-.  8 10 11 9 106 121 64 58  3 7 5 2 62 69 23 27  43.00 42.00 60.00 15.00 2,320.00 5,001.00 312.00 491.50  2 1 1 6 4 3 1  125.00 25.00 50.00 260.66 220.00 212.00 10.00  5 8 6 2 68 73 26 28  168.00 67.00 110.00 15.00 2,580.00 5,221.00» 524.00 501.50  200 500 4,000 500  133.00 485.00 0\er 0\er  
STATE TOTALS LOUISIANA  189 198  105  2,735.00 5,549.50  12 6  647.00 255.00  105 . Ill  3,382.00 5,804.50  5,200  0\er  
New Orleans ... Shreveport Non-Chair. Cities  30 43 15 16 25 30  18 23 3 4 12 18  1,815.00 929.00 30.00 81.00 97.00 188.00  7 4  660.00 950.00 5.00 40.00  25 27 3 4 13 20  2,475.00 1,879.00 30.00 81.00 102.00 228.00  5,000 1,000 200  3,121.00 919.00 Over  
STATE TOTALSMAINE   70 89  33 45  1,942.00 1,198.00  665.00 990.00  41 51  2,607.00 2,188.00  6,200  4,012.00  
AugustaLewiston-AubumNon-Chair. Cities  —  1 1 1 2  16 20  1 1 2 6 4 ~  2.00 5.00 14.00 28.00 21.00  2.00 8.00  1 2 2 6 6  2.00 7.00 14.00 28.00 29.00  200 200  198.00 186.00  
STATE TOTALSMARYLAND   ....  18 23  7  33.00 37.00  1 2  2.00 8.00  8 9  35.00 45.00  400  355.00  
Baltimore Non-Chair. Cities STATE TOTALS MASSACHUSETTS  46 55 35 38 81 93  22 22 15 19 "17 41  555.00 566.00 915.00 652.00 1,470.00 1,218.00  2 3 1 2 3 5  110.00 130.00 5,000.00 5,053.00 5,110.00 5,183.00  24 25 16 21 40 46  665.00 696.00 5,915.00 5,705.00 6,580.00 6,401.00  3,000 5,200 8,200  2,304.00 0\er 1,799.00  
Arlington Belmont  2 4 3  1 2  25.00 35.00  1 2  25.00 35.00  200  165.00  
Boston Brockton Cambridge Chicopee  5 22 19 9 10 15 16 5 6  2 11 8 1 5 4 4 3 3  20.00 165.75 190.00 25.00 48.50 57.00 116.00 20.00 22.00  260.00 105.00 10.00 12.00  2 14 9 3 6 4 4 3 3  20.66 425.75 295.00* 35.00 60.50 57.00 116.00 20.00 22.00  200 2,500 300 400 200  180.00 2,205.00 239.50 284.00 178.00  
Clinton  4  
Fall River HaverhiU Holyoke Hyannis Lawrence Lowell Lyim Melrose  4 8 9 4 4 12 12 0 2 5 5 14 16 16 12 13 14  3 2 4 2 3 5 6 2 2 2 4 8 5 4 7 3 4  35.00 10.00 23.00 30.00 97.00 65.00 47.00 15.00 10.00 130.00 360.00 81.00 50.00 25.00 53.00 45.00 58.00  215.00 30.00 70.00 5.00  3 2 4 2 3 5 9 2 2 5 7 9 5 4 7 3 4  35.00 10.00 23.00 30.00 97.00 65.00 262.00 15.00 10.00 160.00 430.00 86.00 50.00 25.00 53.00 45.00 58.00  200 200 200 300 200 300 300 300 300  165.00 177.00 103.00 38.00 190.00 0%er 250.00 247.00 242.00  

First line of cityreflects 1948; second, 1949. 
Slate and City Number 
Milford 9 9 Northampton 6 7 Pembroke 1 
1 

Springfield 30 
31 

Taunton 2 5 Worcester 11 11 Non-Chair. Cities .... 147 177 
STATE TOTALS 340 379 MICHIGAN 
Battle Creek 11 11 Detroit 398 444 Flint 26 28 Grand Rapids 83 91 Jackson 17 21 Kalamazoo 17 
19 

Monroe 13 14 Muskegon 23 27 
Niles, St. Joseph and 
Benton Harbor 50 77 Port Huron 11 10 
Saginaw, Bay City 
and Owosso — 44 44 Non-Chair. Cities 187 169 
STATE TOTALS 880 955 MINNESOTA Brainerd 3 3 Duluth and Superior 22 23 Hibbing 10 11 Minneapolis 75 78 New Ulm 1 
St. Paul 58 66 Waseca 2 2 Non-Chair. Cities .... 93 91 
STATE TOTALS 264 274 MISSISSIPPI 
Jackson 6 6 Vicksburg 4 4 
ALUMNI 
Xinnbcr 
Giving 
6 7 1 3 4 7 60 69 
122 152 
3 
2 204 251 
15 
11 
39 43 5 8 10 11 7 11 16 15 
23 
34 9 6 
30 29 76 62 
437 483 
1 1 7 8 5 3 37 28 
21 
23 1 2 
42 33 
Tii 
98 

8.50 
105.00 
10.00 
16.00 
119.50 
121.00 5.00 8.00 
108.00 687.00 809.00 650.50 
1,753.75 2,752.00 
55.00 
30.00 5.219.75 7,044.75 
563.00 
126.00 1,359.00 1,129.00 
66.00 462.00 385.00 364.00 
87.50 
95.50 547.00 543.00 
351.00 443.50 120.00 132.50 
395.00 340.50 984.50 848.50 
10,132.75 11,559.25 
75.00 50.00 76.00' 165.00 75.00 50.00 425.00 398.50 
100,497.00 
100,371.00 50.00 55.00 436.00 731.00 
101,634.00 101,820.50 
50.00 15.00 5.00 10.00 
FRIENDS  TOTAI.  
Number Giving  Amount  Number Giving  Share  "Ow"or Am-Uader  
8.50  
105.00  500  395.00  
10.00  
16.00  200  184.00  
200  200.00  
125.00  8  244.50  
35.00  9  156.00  2,000  1,844.00  
1  5.00  
25.00  4  33.00  200  167.00  
4  loaoo  
7  687.00  400  Over  
44.00  65  853.00  
50.00  70  700.50  2,000  1,29930  
16  474.00  138  2,227.75  
12  512.00  164  3,264.00  11,600  8,336.00  
3  55.00  
2  30.00  400  370.00  
22  6,603.00  226  11,822.75  
21  1,031,742.00  272  1,038.786.75»  35,000  Over  
4  135.00  19  698.00  
1  200.00  12  326.00  2,000  1,674.00  
1  25.00  40  1,384.00  
2  33.80  45  1,162.80  3,000  1,837.20  
5  66.00  
101.00  10  563.00  500  Over  
10  385.00  
11  364.00*  1,000  636.00  
7  87.50  
1  50.00  12  14530  400  254.50  
3  120.00  19  667.00  
1  20.00  16  563.00  2,500  1,937.00  
5  540.00 1,350.00  28 46  891.00 1,793.50  2,500  706.50  
12  9  120.00  
119.00  21  251.50  400  148.50  
15  
10.00  31  405.00  
1  29  340.50  1,000  659.50  
12  5,750.00 105.00  88 66  6,734.50 953.50  11,300  10,34630  
4 48 59  13,183.00 1,033,720.80  485 542  23,315.75 1,045,280.05  60,000  Over  
1  75.00  
1  50.00  200  150.00  
7  76.00  
8  165.00  400  235.00  
5.00  6 3  80.00 50.00  200  150.00  
37  425.00  
28  398.50  4,000  3,601.50  
200.00  1  200.00  
400  400.00  
10.00  22 23  100,507.00 100,371.00*  105,000  4,629.00  
1  50.00  
2  55.00  200  145.00  
50.00  43  486.00  
10.00  34  741.00  800  59.00  
265.00  118  101.899.00  
10.00  99  101,830.50.  111,200  9,36930  
1  50.00  
2  15.00  200  185.00  
1  5.00  
50.00  3  60.00  200  140.00  

First line of city reflects 1948; second, 1949. 
ALUMNI  FRIENDS  TOTAL  
State and City  Number  Xmnbcr Giving  Amount  Number Giving  Amount  Number Giving  ' Aswmnt  1949 Share  "Over" or Amt. Under  

92.00 145.00 
147.00 170.00 

15.00 1.00 2,095.00 1,285.00 30.00 25.00 5,757.00 6,306.50 125.00 170.00 188.50 134.00 
8,210.50 7,921.50 
580.00 135.00 151.00 192.50 
731.00 327.50 
25.00 10.00 
171.00 
533.00 25.00 25.00 
249.00 286.00 
470.00 854.00 
20.00 180.00 25.00 2.00 
45.00 182.00 
7.00 
287.31 75.00 50.00 65.00 33.00 
147.00 370.31 

251.00 196.00 219.00 370.00 558.80 2,914.50 991.00 546.50 2,613.50 3,965.20 358.00 433.00 
First line of city reflects 1948; second, 1949. 
Non-Chair. Cities .... 12 15 
STATE TOTALS 22 23 

MISSOURI Hannibal 5 5 Kansas Cit)- 117 128 St. Joseph 5 5 St. Louis „... 235 259 Springfield 4 4 Non-Chair, Cities .... 33 29 
ST.\TE TOTALS 399 430 MONTANA 
Butte 12 15 Non-Chair. Cities ... 39 43 

STATE TOTALS .... 51 58 NEBRASKA 
.Aurora 3 2 Omaha 25 30 Ponca 1 1 Non-Chair. Cities .... 29 31 

STATE TOTALS 58 64 NEVADA 
Reno 6 6 Non-Chair. Cities 1 
o 
STATE TOTALS 7 8 

NEW HAMPSHIRE 
Dover 2 3 Manchester 4 2 Non-Chair. Cities 12 14 
STATE TOTALS 18 19 

NEW JERSEY 
19 
.\sbury Park 
27 34 
Camden 
42 56 
Elizabeth 
75 Jersey City . 76 94 Newark 204 271 Paterson 86 110 
6 10 
1 1 
I2 
14 
11 62 
1 1 
12 63 
2 
9 
13 9 5 1 
lo 
12 
2 6 1 5 2 2 2 3 6 24 1 2 
25.00 
75.00 
10.00 
135.00 2,650.00 
1,550.00 2,095.00 
10.00 25.00 
1,705.00 4,770.00 
220.00 45.00 
220.00 45.00 
245.00 2,711.00 
10.00 15.00 
255.00 2,726.00 
55.00 50.00 263.00 205.00 48.00 5.00 
366.00 260.00 
200.00 475.00 12.00 79.00 450.00 805.00 105.00 154.00 265.00 2,762.50 5.00 
103.00 
4 7 

6 12 
3 1 64 72 3 2 161 130 3 3 18 15 
252 223 

4 6 19 20 
23 26 
I 

1 22 74 
1 
1 13 15 
37 91 

2 1 1 
2 3 

4 3 15 11 10 7 
29 21 

15 15 20 
30 
24 28 30 42 97 131 28 41 
92.00 170.00 
147.00 
245.00 
25.00 
1.00 2,230.00 3,935.00 
30.00 
25.00 7,307.00 8,401.50» 
125.00 170.00 198.50 159.00 
9,915.50 12,691.50 
580.00 135.00 371.00 237.50 
951.00 
372.50 
25.00 10.00 416.00 3,244.00 25.00 25.00 259.00 301.00 
725.00 3,580.00 
20.00 180.00 25.00 2.00 
45.00 182.00 
62.00 337.31 338.00 255.00 113.00 
38.00 
513.00 
630.31 
451.00 671.00* 231.00 449.00 
. 1,008.80 3,719.50 1,096.00 700.50 2,878.50 6,727.70 363.00 536.00* 
• 400 
800 
200 5,000 200 16,000 300 300 
22,000 
300 500 
800 
200 500 200 500 
1,400 
300 300 
600 
200 500 200 
900 
400 
500 3,000 2,000 6,000 2,000 
230.00 
555.00 
199.00 1,065.00 175.00 7,598.50 130.00 141.00 
9,308.50 
165.00 262.50 
427.50 
190.00 0%er 175.00 199.00 
Over 
120.00 298.00 
418.00 
0\er 245.00 162.00 
269.69 
Over 51.00 0%er 1,299.50 0%er 1,464.00 
6 10 
1 60 69 
3 
2 
155 
120 
3 
3 17 14 
24F 209 
4 6 15 17 
17 
23 
1 
1 11 12 
1 
1 12 14 
25 28 
1 2 1 1 
2 3 
2 1 2 
9 
5 6 
9 
9 
13 9 19 25 22 26 28 
39 
91 
107 
27 
39 

ALUMNI FRIENDS TOTAL K\miber . Number Nmnber I9e "Over" «r 
Sute and City Number Giving Amount GiviDg Amount Giving Amt.Vnia 
Perth Amboy  29  10  135.00  10  135.00  
39  13  135.50  10.00  14  145.50  400  -.  254.50  
Trenton  22  13  225.00  25.00  14  250.00  
35  12  136.50  12  136.50  300  163 JO  
STATE TOT.^LS ....  526  223  5.351.30  15  1,062.00  238  6,413.30  
693  270  8,697.20  43  4,388.50  313  13,085.70  14,600  1.514.30  
NEW MEXICO  
Albuquerque Non-Chair. Cities  ....  ,? 18  6 4 7  280.00 270.00 102.00  6 4 7  280.00 270.00 102.00  1,000  730.00  
23  11  122.00  11  122.00  400  278.00  
STATE TOTALS  27  13  382.00  13  382.00  
34  15  392.00  15  392.00  1,400  1,008.00  
NEW YORK  
.•\lbany  28  14  190.25  14  190.25  
26  12  195.00  5.00  13  200.00  1.000  800.00  
Auburn  20  9  61.00  9  61.00  
20  9  86.00  9  86.00  400  314.00  
Batavia  7  3  25.00  3  25.00  
9  6  42.00  6  42.00  200  158.00  
Binghamton  _...  26  11  149.00  200.00  12  349.00  
32  17  384.00  10.00  18  394.00  400  6.00  
BulTalo  173  95  6,378.00  ,130.00  98  7,508.00  
190  103  1,817.75  760.00  110  2,577.75  6,000  3,422.25  
Coming  9  6  72.00  10.00  7  82.00  
9  5  36.00  5.00  6  41.00  300  259.00  
Elmira  5  4  45.00  4  45.00  
7  3  20.00  5.00  4  25.00  200  175.00  
Geneva  11  7  80.00  7  80.00  
12  8  70.00  8  70.00  300  230.00  
Malone  8  4  27.00  4  27.00  
9  5  75.00  5  75.00  200  125.00  
New York City  1200 999  472 578  38,975.25 51,885.60  34 321  8,129.00 151,260.00  506 899  47,102.25 203,145.60»  150,000­ Over  
Ogdensburg  3 3  2 1  30.00 5.00  2 1  30.00 5.00  200  195.00  
Oswego  8 5  2 2  25.00 20.00  2 2  25.00 20.00  200  180.00  
Rochester  148  65  1,327.25  185.00  73  1,512.25  
165  74  1,321.93  123.00  78  1,444.93»  3.500  2,055.07  
Schenectadv  —  29  16  199.00  30.00  18  229.00  
38  20  234.00  20.00  22  254.00  500  246.00  
S\Tacuse  50  26  496.00  26  496.00  
60  32  679.00  10.00  33  689.00*  1.500  811.00  
Troy  8 10  2 5  7.00 51.00  200.00  3 5  207.00 51.00  300  249.00  
Utica  24  9  294.50  9  294.50  
28  21  609.50  21  609.50  500  Over  
Non-Chair.  Cities  ....  249  92  819.50  120.00  94  939.50  
245  104  1,131.50  246.00  112  1,377.50  12,000  10,62230  
STATE TOTALS  2006  839  49,198.75  52  10,004.00  891  59,202.75  
1867  1005  58,663.28  347  152,444.00  1352  211,107.28  177.700  Over  
NORTH CAROLINA  
.\she\-illc  2  1  5.00  5.00  2  10.00  
2  1  10.00  1  10.00  200  190.00  
Non-Chair.  Cities  16  4  14.50  4  14.50  
23  12  68.50  12  68.50  200  13130  
STATE TOTALS ...  18 25  T 13  19.50 78.50  5.00  6 13  24.50 78.50  400  32130  
NORTH DAKOTA  
Fargo  4 4  1 1  10.00 10.00  1 1  10.00 10.00  200  ISOJOO  
Jamestown  1 1  1 1  10.00 10.00  10.00  1 3  10.00 20.00  200  180.00  
Mandan Minot  3 3 3 2  2 3 3 2  6.00 25.00 35.00 20.00  50.00  2 3 4 2  6.00 25.00 85.00 20.00  200 200  175.00 180.00  

First line of city reflects 1948; second, 1949. 
II ^ o 
1 > s fiS N u w o n 1/1 i C/1 C/1 r 3 
C 
s s

Oq K
1 I Ha in II I
3 
0 0

f 
H H 
3 i f
5! •? 
n ! ' 
31 o n 
cr 
,_4 
»— >-• OO lo ^ K­ro to ui ui — 05 lO to - -T-ro ro 
5 
h-t 
a U9 oi •— o ro Ci ^l c>3N9roi->4^oo'^*f^03rNdOto(Oiot-noi4^4^9>4^rooooorC'vio>ro'viui4).>^9>toroioroH^ 
^ t>3 to to (O w ro 
03 
«en • 
ir
4>. H-•— « Ol OS 4^ CO to Lo ro ^(ji»— ^^':!? ^ ^ T *-" . ww^^^^^^-vt^kOiCTiroro 4*4* 
1 
N3 •— ^ 
^ :^ O N> ^ O iO 00 Ol 4^ H-> H>*
0»{^r003><4<>4o^Ol i-.*OK-iD(-n03w4*'4^4*'Ww»-*o303^4*'4»'tJ^wo3i-«roK-to>—oa>4*>rooiH-4*tji 
^ 
l_u h^ t-^ ^ Ol 
sT' „*-* y> S^ i^ «w 

:**: 03 N> '— ^ N3 ^ O O 01 4*. to t-i H-»— P-- Ol >U _. ._ . -. _. „ ro 
^ OJ ro 00 h-w ro I-­
<oo> to CO H* 00 O N) o •-* 00 to o to _ ._ -. _ _-__,_._-_.,____.__,_, _ _-_. r--- 001 o ro »-* I-* 
U1 <0  ^^ O 00 O -^ 00 tn O 00 H-00 01 O 
•^ UI UI O CO ioo3tJiCT)'vjrooooo4*>^joooioai<0"^(J»u»uioo'*JOi03tn»—o^^rot—NDroioorooooiOOioooo O 
CO Ol 

fOroOOOOOOOiOOOOOOUiOOOOOOOOOoOOOOOO-viUiOOOOOOOiOi
o o o o o o 

(JtfJiOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOoOOOOOOtnOOOOOOOOO o b b b 
o o o o oo o o 

0000 
•JO) I 1 .<i> •>) to UI W I >-> W woo «•-•-! to >— 1— I— 1 H- Ul trf O Ol 4^ Iri ! tOH-l i w 2 
2 
M 1-4 

10 N3 ha ^1 4w ^to 4' jrf 
l-> 01 K. 1- 4i. O) 09 <T> CT> hO •^ to Ol to 9) Ol "oi 01 ">-•V ""^ to *^ 00 10 (O UI 0 UI 0 0 UI Ul to 0 0 0 •-* to to to 03 oa w ^ CO o Ul 
p Ui 0 0 UI 0 0 0 0 0 Ul -J 09 ro tjl 0 0 0 H- IJI . tji Ul yi Ul Ul o yi a> Ul o yi ob o 000 0 0 0 0; 0 UI 0 Ul 0 ; ! 000000 go b b 1 fa I 
o o 000 0 0 0 0: 0 0 0 0 0 1 ! 000000 000: b b b b bfab1 o { 88 0000000; 
O? 
Ul (Ji I-* M 4h .^ >-•>-> Ul to H' » oiooeto ifc"':; vjui»- _fo'^. _"'-' wt^^^iUooUoioitoio •t-*' •-*" 
>-4 00 O 9> ^ to to to 91 to H^ O m M Ul 4^ i-t h^ 
•^cil to>^towOoooeioooxio<^oeuiui<.n<jttdb3>->o90900uiaiuiwooi>9M^toM>(^to>;>routN-aiut uiw 
Ul to 
to to P.OB J«J» 0 UI 09 to ^^ ^-^ HiA i^,*-,4^00>i^at to «•!-• 0 b9 01 I to Ol "ui >-• "fa to I—«-«- >^ai4^MH> wwtoi-' I-* 91 oi'bsV'w'Ui'biV Ul w to >­
i
b9 Ol Q •>• <.n to tjt ^J to "-ffi» to ^ O to N> N> 
Ul Ul 5 to e OS i.^M»-«t,)ato^^(0»^toQewa)ai^tOtot»903toc^oui9ivjeouiw9tto*i^tott9ifrMtOi^ 
t<3 OS o Ul es OS w 01 
S uio o
88 isPiii 

OS b Ul '^ lOUi<7ltOtoOetotO^OSUiO>->4>IOOUlUlOO^U<03Ui>-'04>^»^OSi^O->iesui 
8888 888888 88 
0 0 0 Ul 
5K8S8SSSSS88SS8g8 8 888 8SS8888SSS^blg8^*^ 8888 
* » 

01 o ^ u ro to 
b o o 8 8 8 n
8 8 oo o -000 8 8 8 fS 
S 8 8 8 o 
to Ul to to 
o en ^ 
01 to 4>' to to 0 ro to to t?) % 4^ H^ lo OS 
Ol 0 to to to 00 to CO Ol 
0 0 to to ^ 01 O 06 00 to 
Ul . Ul. 0 to tjl 01 0 t>9 Ul to 09 Ul 0 t>3 to Ol o 
p
0 0 0 ? 0 UI 9 9 Ul 0 0 0 0 0 0 9~ o to o >-9 
0 0 0 (-0> »n 0 0 0 8 8 0 8 8 0 0 0 0 0 !
ri i>i 'o 'o '<Z> In A Ul o o o o 
Slate and City 
PENNSYLVANIA 
Allentown Eric Harrisburg 
Pittsburgh 
Wilkes-Barre Williamsport Non-Chair. Cities .... 
STATE TOTALS RHODE ISLAND Newport Pawtucket Providence Woonsocket Non-Chair. Cities .... STATE TCTHL": 
SOUTH CAROLINA 
Non-Chair. Cities .... STATE TOTALS SOUTH DAKOTA .Aberdeen 
Non-Chair. Cities .... STATE TOTALS TENNESSEE 
Non-Chair. Cities .... STATE TOTALS 
Number 
10 12 47 49 40 40 28 30 24 32 142 162 144 158 36 43 38 54 13 14 254 247 
776 841 
5 6 9 11 8 17 6 4 17 18 
~45 56 
3 2 9 14 
12 16 
1 1 8 
U 24 27 
33 39 
4 
6 55 59 16 20 16 15 
91 100 

ALUMNI  FRIENDS  TOTAL  
Number GK-ing  Amount  Number Giving  Amount  Number GMng  AflMMiat  1949 Skan  "0«er"or Amt-Uader  
5  76.50  11  69.00  16  145.50  
7  753.00  1  10.00  8  763:00  500  Over  
30  280.00  ....  30  280.00  
22  195.00  1  5.00  23  200.00  600  400.00  
30  336.00  1  10.00  31  346.00  
24  280.00  7  107.50  31  387.50  600  212.50  
14  212.00  14  212.00  
16  211.00  ....  16  211.00  500 '  289.00  
7  295.00  —  7  295.00  
17  535.00  1  5.00  18  540.00  500  Over  
86 94  2,017.50 2,634.00  38 24  3,623.00 2,117.00  124 118  5,640.50 4,751.00»  6,500  1,749.00  
92  3,124.51  5  132.00  97  3,256.51  
79  8,850.00  11  430.00  90  9,280.00*  6,500  Over  
23  340.00  2  10.00  25  350.00  
21  378.00  3  350.00  24  728.00  -700  Over  
10  124.00  10  124.00  
15  142.00  1  5.00  16  147.00  300  153.00  
8  133.00  ....  ....  8  133.00  
9  150.00  ....  9  150.00  400  250.00  
106  1,200.00  8  110.00  114  1,310.00  
109  1,339.00  10  210.00  119  1,549.00  2.900  1,351.00  
411  8,138.51  65  3,954.00  476  12,092.51  
413  15,467.00  59  3,239.50  472  18,706.50  20,000  1,29330  
2  10.00  2  10.00  
2  25.00  ....  2  25.00  200  175.00  
4  65.00  ....  4  65.00  
7  72.00  7  72.00  200  128.00  
8  113.00  1  30.00  9  143.00  
14  367.00  3  85.00  17  452.00  500  48.00  
2  502.00  ....  2  502.00  
3  260.00  1  25.00  4  285.00  600  315.00  
7  91.00  7  91.00  
8  101.50  ....  8  101.50  200  98.50  
23  781.00  1  30.00  24  811.00  
34  825.50  4  110.00  38  935J0  1,700  764.50  
2  25.00  2  50.00  4  75.00  
1  5.00  —  1  5.00  200  195.00  
2  28.00  —  2  28.00  
4  36.00  ....  4  36.00  200  164.00  
4  53.00  2  50.00  6  103.00  
5  41.00  —  ....  5  41.00  400  359.00  
1  10.00  ....  1  10.00  
1  10.00  ....  1  10.00  200  190.00  
4  116.00  ....  4  116.00  
5  197.00  ....  5  197.00  300  103.00  
16  303.00  1  10.00  17  313.00  
12  167.50  ....  12  167.50  300  132.50  
21  429.00  I  10.00  22  439.00  
18  374.50  ....  ....  18  374.50  800  425.50  
2  20.00  —.- 2  20.00  
4  41.00  4  41.00  200  159.00  
34  1,169.00  2  1,020.00  36  2,189.00  
38  1,624.00  38  1,624.00  3,000  1,376.00  
9  129.20  1  10.00  10  139.20  
12  417.00  12  417.00  300  Over  
3  25.00  ....  3  25.00  
6  33.00  ....  6  33.00  200  167.00  
48  1,343.20  3  1,030.00  51  2,373.20  
60  2,115.00  —  ....  60  2,115.00  3,700  1,585.00  

First line of city reflects 1948; second, 1949. 
State and City Number 
TEXAS Beaumont 9 12 Dallas 59 82 El Paso 14 17 Fort Worth 9 15 Houston 50 70 Port Arthur 6 6. San Antonio 12 23 Non-Chair. Cities .... 50 84 
STATE TOTALS 209 309 UTAH 
Salt Lake Cit>-6 7 Non-Chair. Cities .... 5 6 

STATE TOTALS 11 13 VERMONT 
Burlington 6 7 Rutland 9 12 Non-Chair. Cities .... 19 20 

STATE TOT.ALS 34 39 VIRGINIA Lynchburg 5 5 Richmond 17 19 Non-Chair. Cities .... 38 44 
STATE TOTALS . 60 68 WASHINGTON Seattle 34 43 Spokane _ 20 22 Tacoma 10 12 Non-Chair. Cities .... 23 30 
STATE TOTALS 87 107 

WEST VIRGINIA Charleston 28 
28 
Huntington 5 4 Wheeling-Bellaire, O... 22 23 
Non-Chair. Cities 47 
52 
STATE TOTALS "l02 107 
ALUMNI 
Xumbcr 
 Gmng 
7 
9 31 56 
8 
11 
5 10 29 46 2 4 5 10 23 42 
110 188 
4 4 2 4 
6 8 
4 3 4 10 9 8 
17 21 
2 3 9 10 20 19 
32 
15 25 10 16 9 8 10 15 
44 64 
15 14 
1 
13 10 22 21 
51 45 
545.00 670.00 1,620.00 1,876.00 268.00 154.00 75.00 500.00 665.00 918.00 50.00 120.00 60.00 82.00 421.20 754.00 

3,704.20 5,074.00 
121.00 92.50 35.00 80.00 
156.00 
172.50 
53.00 
55.00 135.00 288.75 155.00 133.00 
343.00 476.75 

47.50 38.50 82.00 142.00 1,144.50 135.00 
1,274.00 315.50 
460.00 446.00 85.00 146.50 1,692.00 1,867.00 251.00 178.69 
2,488.00 2,638.19 
691.00 747.00 10.00 
166.00 210.00 180.00 152.00 

1,047.00 1,109.00 
FRIENDS  TOTAL  
Number Giving  Number Ginng  Amount  1949 Share  ''Over** or Amt. Under  
4 7 11 1 1  360.00 9,560.00 9,495.00 100.00 550.00 1,000.00 10.00  7 13 38 67 8 11 6 10 29 47 2 4 5 11 23 43  545.00 1,030.00 11,180.00 11,37I.00» 268.00 154.00 175.00 500.00 665.00 1,468.00 50.00 120.00 60.00 1,082.00 421.20 764.00  1,000 22,000 600 500 6,000 300 300 300  0\er 10,629.00 446.00 0%cr 4,532.00 180.00 0\er Over  
8 18  9,660.00 11,415.00  118 206  13,364.20 16,489.00  31,000  14,511.00  
4 4 2 4  121.00 92.50 35.00 80.00  300 200  207.50 120.00  
6 8  156.00 172.50  500  327.50  
10.00 10.00 10.00  4 3 4 11 10 9  53.00 55.00 135.00 298.75 165.00 143.00  300 400 300  245.00 101.25 157.00  
10.00 20.00  18 23  353.00 496.75  1,000  503.25  
100.00 10.00  2 3 9 10 21 20  47.50 38.50 82.00 142.00 1,244.50 145.00  200 300 1,500  161.50 158.00 .1,355.00  
100.00 10.00  32 33  1,374.00 325.50  2,000  1,674.50  
10.00 250.00  16 25 10 16 9 9 10 15  470.00 446.00» 85.00 146.50 1,692.00 2,117.00 251.00 178.69  2,5002,0005,300  2,054.00  Over  5,121.31  
10.00 250.00  45 65  2,498.00 2,888.19  9,800  6,911.81  
1.610.00 100.00 2.00 17.00  20 15 1 13 10 23 24  2,301.00 847.00 10.00 166.00 210.00 182.00 169.00  4,000 200 400 500  3,153.00 200.00 190.00 331.00  
1,612.00 117.00  57 49  2,659.00 1,226.00  5,100  3,874.00  

First line of city reflects 1948: second, 1949. 
ALUMNI FRIENDS TOTAL 
Number Number 1919 "Over" or 
State and City Xumber Giving Amount Giving Amount Ghring 'Amount . Sbare Aat. Uadcr 
WISCONSIN 7 2 6.00 2 6.00 8 1 50.00 1 50.00 200 150.00 
Fond du Lac D 5 60.00 5 60.00 6 5 55.00 5 55.00 200 145.00 La Crosse _ 23 17 1,434.50 17 1,434.50 23 16 1,228.00 16 1,228.00 3,000 1,772.00 
Madison 20 7 84.75 1 10.00 8 94.75 21 9 124.00 2 53.00 11 177.00 400 223.00 10 6 385.00 6 385.00 11 8 201.00 8 201.00 500 299.00 
193 86 1,833.50 15 5,265.00 101 7,098.50 213 92 4,100.00 8 5,140.00 100 9,240.00» 25,000 15,760.00 -.­
8 2 18.00 2 18.00 6 30.00 2 30.00 200 170.00 
9 Racine 18 15 7,725.00 3 610.00 18 8,335.00 23 12 1,529.00 15 5,400.00 27 6,929.00 10,000 3,071.00 Rhinelander 3 1 5.00 1 5.00 2 10.00 3 200 200.00 
.™

.... ..— 
Sheboygan 9 1 3.00 1 3.00 10 9 8.00 .... 2 8.00 200 192.00 Non-Chair. Cities . 170 71 839.25 15 2,852.25 86 3.691.50 171 73 1,078.00 8 1,110.00 81 2,188.00 2,200 12.00 
STATE TOTALS ..... ... ^69 213 12,394.00 ~35 8,742.25 248 21,136.25 495 219 8,353.00 34 11,753.00 253 20,106.00 42,100 21,994.00 
WYOMING 5 4 105.00 21 185.00 25 290.00 4 1 25.00 1 25.00 500 475.00 
Non-Chair. Cities . 13 3 17.00 1 10.00 4 27.00 15 7 160.00 > .... 7 160.00 100 Over 
STATE TOTALS 18 7 122.00 22 195.00 29 317.00 
19 8 185.00 .... .... 8 185.00 600 415.00 MEXICO Mexico Cit>' 14 1 10.00 1 10.00 
7 4 53.00 .... 4 53.00 200 147.00 TERRITORY OF HAWAII Honolulu 4 3 45.00 
11 169.00 14 214.00 4 1 25.00 7 160.00 8 185.00 400 215.00 
TOTAL 228 CHAIRMAN CITIES Year 1948 ....11,028 5632 313,490.91 602 145,244.19 6234 458,735.10 Year 1949 .....12,317 6162 486,751.10 1087 1,404,015.01 7249 1,890,766.11» 1,199,800 Over 
TOTAL NON.-CHAIR CITIES Year 1948 2,922 1341 138,407.37 89 17,796.95 1430 156,204.32 Year 1949 3,013 1355 19,480.06 71 14,295.50 1426 33,775.56* 200,200 166,424.44 
GRAND TOTAL Year 1948 .....13,950 6973 451,898.28 691 163,041.14 7664 614,939.42 Year 1949 15,330 7517 506,231.16 1158 1,418,310.51 8675 1,924,541.67* 1,400,000 Over 
First line of city reflects 1948; second, 1949. 
*.\ portion of the amount contributed was restricted for purposes other than the Science Building Fund. 
CITIES CONTRIBUTING %% OR MORE OF THE 
1949 RECAPITULATION 
.^umni Gifts from 228 Chair. Cities $ 486,751.10 
Friends Gifts from 228 Chair. Cities...... 1,404,015.01 
Total 1,890,766.11 .^umni Gifts from Non-Chair. Cities $ 19,480.06 Friends Gifts from Non-Chair. Cities.... 14,295.50 
Total 33,775.56 Total Gifts from 7517 .\lumni . $ 506,231.16 Total Gifts from 1158 Friends 1,418,310.51 
Total Gifts from 8675 Alumni and Friends $1,924,541.67 Research Fellowships and Grants 407,305.70 Gifts of equipment valued at _ 84,800.00 
Grand Total —.\U Gifts ..$2,416,647.37 
1949 TOTAL OF 
CIT\­
Detroit New York Chicago St. Paul South Bend 
Washington, D.C. Evansville Dallas Notre Dame Los Angeles Tulsa Pittsburgh Milwaukee 
Totals 

AMOUNT 
$1,038,786.75 203,145.60 157,071.92 100,371.00 
98,213.55 24,328.75 19,483.25 12,354.00 . 11,371.00 10,500.00 10,015.25 
9,837.80 9,280.00 9,240.00 
$1,713,998.87 
 $1,924,541.67*  
PERCENTAGE  NO.  %  
OF  OF  OF  
AMOUNT  ALUMNI  ALUMNI  
54.0%  444  2.9%  
10.6%  999  6.5%  
8.2%  1786  U.7%  
5.2%  66  .4%  
5.1%  952  6.2%  
1.3%  327  2.1%  
1.0%  269  1.8%  
.6%  37  .2%  
.6%  82  .5%  
.5%  87  .6%  
.5%  401  2.6%  
.5%  68  .4%  
.5%  158  1.0%  
.5%  213  1.4%  
89.1%  5889  38.4%  


Note: In addition to the above cities, 1% or more of the Alumni live in the following cities: Buffalo, Indianapolis, Newark, Philadelphia, Rochester, St. Louis, and San Francisco. 
*Does not include $407,305.70, Research Fellowships and Grants, or $84,800.00, gifts of equipment. 
1948-1949 TABLES  
.\LUMNI  -AND  FRIENDS  
ALUMNI  FRIENDS  
1948  1948  

CLASS  %  OF  %O F  CLASS  %  OF  %O F  
NUMBER  TOTAL  NUMBER  TOTAL  NUMBER  TOTAL  NUMBER  TOTAL  
Under $10  2,867  41  3349  44.5  Under  $25  345  50  435  37.6  
$10-$20  2,374  34  2128  28.3  $25-$50  79  11  211  18.2  
$20-$25  267  4  206  2.7  $50-$100  68  10  125  10.8  
$25-$50  850  12  1102  14.7  $100-$200  92  13  177  15.3  
$50-$100  _  257  4  340  4.5  $200-$500  32  5  77  6.6  
$100-$200  .  188  2.6  217  2.9  $500-$l,000  29  4  46  4.  
$200-$500  110  1.5  94  1.3  $l,000-$2,000  28  4  48  4.  
$500-$1,000  27  .4  35  .5  $2,000-$3,000  8  1.2  17  1.5  
$1,000  14  .2  11  .2  $3,000-$5,000  4  .6  9  .8  
$1,000 up  19  .3  35  .4  $5,000  up  6  1.2  13  1.2  
Totals  6,973  100%  7517  100%  Totals  691  100%  1158  100%  

ALUMNI NOTES: FRIENDS' NOTES: 
In 1948, 5508 or 79% of the Alumni contributed under $25.00, In 1948, 345 or 50% of the Friends contributed under $25.00, while 1465 or 21 % contributed over $25.00. while 346 or 50% contributed over $25.00. 
In 1949, 5683 or 75.5% of the Alumni contributed under In 1949, 435 or 37.6% of the Friends contributed under $25.00, $25.00, while 1834 or 24.5% contributed over $25.00. In other while 723 or 62.4% contributed over $25.00. In other words, words, about 400 more Alumni contributed over $25.00 in 1949 more than twice as many friends contributed over $25.00 in 1949 than in 1948. than in 1948. 
ANNUAL RECORD OF GIVING 
ALUMNI AND FRIENDS 1941-1949 

ALUMNI FRIENDS 
NUMBER AMOUNT NUMBER AMOUNT 
1941 \ 24 $ 22,868.00 1942 > 3,462 $ 107,424.00 58 144,276.00 
1943 ) 126 70,010.00 
1944 3,313 111,342.00 98 59,916.00 
1945 3,096 94,345.00 84 186,783.00 
1946 5,885 276,989.00 262 254,612.00 
1947 7,888 376,013.00 302 175,790.00 
1948 6,973 451,898.28 691 163,041.14 
1949 7,517 506,231.16 1,158 •1,418,310.51 
TOTALS 38,134 $1,924,242.44 2,803 $2,495,606.65 
Alumni and Friends have made 40,937 gifts amounting to $4,419,849.09 from 1941 through 1949. 
•Does not include $407,305.70 in Research Fellowships and Grants received in 1949 or equipment received and valued at $84,800.00. 
COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF 1949 GIFTS 
INCREASES* DECREASES* NEW^ SAME* TOTAL 
Alumni 1575 911 2539 2492 7517 
21% 12% 34% 33% 100% 
Friends 70 51 901 136 1158 6% 4% 78% 12% 100% 
Total 1645 962 3440 2628 8675 
19% 11% 40% 30% 100% 
•Increases—1949
 gift was larger than the 1948 gift. 

•Decreases—1949
 gift was less than the 1948 gift. 

•New—Gift
 that was received in 1949 was not received in 1948. 

•Same—1949
 gift was the same as the 1948 gift. 


Pertinent facts . . . 55% of the gifts from Alumni in 1949 were new or increases. 78% of the Friends' gifts in 1949 were not received in 1948. 
100% CHAIRMAN CITIES 

CITIES THAT REACHED OR EXCEEDED THEIR 1949 SHARES 
Allentown, Pa. Hartford, Conn. •Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Anderson, Ind. Jackson, Mich. Richmond, Ind. 
•Asbury
 Park, N. J. •Joliet, lU. San Antonio, Tex. Beaumont, Texas Kokomo, Ind. Scranton, Pa. Colorado Spgs, Col. Lawrence, Mass. Tacoma, Wash. Columbus, Ohio •Louisville, Ky. Terre Haute, Ind. 

•Detroit,
 Mich. Miami, Fla. Tulsa, Okla. Dover, N. H. Michigan City, Ind. Utica, N. Y. East Chicago, Ind. Monesscn, Pa. Warren, Ohio Elizabeth, N. J. Nashville, Tenn. •Washington, D. C. Evansville, Ind. Newark, N. J. Whiting, Ind. Ft. Worth, Texas •New York, N. Y. •Wilmington, Del. Gary, Ind. Omaha, Nebr. Worcester, Mass. 

•Hammond,
 Ind. •Peoria, 111. Youngstown, Ohio 


80-99% 
Binghamton Hdyoke Saint FlMiI 
Camden Muncie Sandodcr 
Davenport Providence 
50-79% 
•Akron 
Manchester *Saiiit Louis Canton Memphii Salina 

•Chicago 
Moline Scheneirtady 

•Cincinnati 
Nilcs Sioux Falb 

•Cleveland 
•Notre Dame •South Bend 

•Dallas 
•niiladelphia Springfield, HL 


Dayton Port Huron Springfield, Mo. 
Des Moines Portland SteiUng 
Hamilton Racine Waterburv Harrisburg 
Reno Wheeling-Bdlain; Jacksonville Rock Island 
Kansas City Rutland 

CITIES UNDER 50% 
Aberdeen Ft. Wayne Newa ^ Ohio 
Albany Geneva Newport 
Albuquerque Grand Rapids Northampton 
Arlington Hannibal Ogdcniburg _:'.­
Asheville HaverhiU Oklahoma Ci ^ 
Ashtabula Hibbing Oshkosh 
.\tlanta Honolulu Oswego 
.\ubum 

Houston F^fan Beach Augusta Idaho Falls *Patcf9on ' Aurora •Indianapolis Pawtocket 
Baltimore Hyannis Perth Amboy Batavia Jackson, Sfiss. Phoenix Battle Creek Jamestowii Plymouth Bedford Jersey City Ponca Belmont Johnstown Port Arthur Birmingham •Kalamazoo Portsmouth .

Boise Lacrosse Pueblo •Boston •Lafayette Richmond, Va. 

Brainerd Lakeland •Rochester, N. Y. 

Brockton La Porte •Rockford Buffalo Lcwiston-Aubum Sa^naw Burlington Lexington Salt Lake City Butte 

Little Rock San FraaciKo Cambridge Logansport •Seattle Charleston Lorain Sheboygan Chattanooga •Los Angeles Shreveport Cheyenne Lowell Spartanburg Chicopec Lynchburg Springfield, Mass. Clinton Lynn Springfield, Giao Coming Malone St. Joseph, Mo. 
Covington Madison •Syracuse Denver Mandan Taunton 

Dubuque Marinette Td&a 

Duluth Marion, Ohio T«dedo Eau Claire Melrose Trenton Elkhart Mexico City Trinidad Elmira Mnford Troy El Paso •Milwaukee Vicksburj Elyria Minneapolis Vincennes Erie 

Minot Waseca Fall River Monroe WOkes-Barre Fargo Mott Willisansport Flint Muscatine Woonsocket Fond du Lac Muskegon ZanesviOe Ft. Lauderdale New Orieans 
0% CITIES 
Huntington Pembroke Tucson New Ulm Rhindander 
•A portion of the amotmt contributed was restricted for pur­poses other than the Science Building Fund. 
DIRECTORY of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ARIZONA—PAornrx-Thomas E. O'Malley, '39, 320 
W. Xlrginia. Tucson—Ted W. Witz, '29, Box 628. 
ARKANSAS-Fori Smith—Rajinond A. Marre, cx­37, 229 Merchants Nat'l. Bank BIdg. 
CALIFORNIA—ioj Angeles—Zugcnc C. Calhoun, '33, 704 S. Spring St., Room 212. iVorlfcfrn—Donald L. Allen, '37, Federal Bldg.. Civic Conference, San Francisco. San D!eso—\f. Albert Stewart, '35, 728 San Diego Tr. & Savings Bank Bldg. 
COLOR.\DO—DfniY-r—James F. Hanlon, '18, 1652 Glencoe St. 
CONNECTICUT-Conn^dicn/ raHej^William J. 
Reid, '26, 7 May St., Hartford. Naueatuck Valley—D. Frank Murnanc, '32, Summit Rd., Prospect. Southwestern—Fxsnk S. McGcc, '33, 51 Saioy St., Bridgeport 6. 
DELAWARE—Arthur C. Baum, '36, 1310 Van Buren St., Apt. 3-C, Wilmington. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBLA—It'aiAfnglon—J. R. "Pat" Gorman, '40, 1740 K St., NW. 
FLORID.\—Greater M!ami—FTcd A. Jones, Jr., '47, 
25 S.W. 18th Rd., Miami. for« Lauderdale—Vnd J. Stcirart, '12, Port Everglades Station. North FZorido—John F. I^nahan, '43, P.O. Box 
1498, Jacksoni-illc. 
GEORGI.\—William H. Schroder, Jr., '35, 162 Rum-
son Rd., Atlanta. 
IDAHO—Paul J. Kohout, '25, 1722 Washington St., Boise. 
ILLINOIS—C/iiroso—John W. Lacey. '38, the Forbes Lithograph Mfg. Co.. 700 Wrigley Bids. flonr-Hf-John Meyer, '42, 1314 Franklin. Fox KoJ/o^William B. Chau-go, '31, 516 Binder St., Aurora. 
Jalirl-Kankalirt—.Arthur Smith. Jr., '48, RD No. 2. /'cono—Eugene R. Slevin. '44. 121 Summit Blvd. Rock Riser Valley—Vm\ J. Fry, '27. 101 First St., DLxon. Springfield—%tep\Ka G. Graliker. '42. 1537 
W. Macon St., Decatur. 
iiSDlKSK—Calumet District—James J. Glenn, '35, 1337 119lh St., Whiting. Eastern Indiana—^William B. Cronin, '31. 521 
E. JelTerson, Hartford City. Fort It'ojne-Edivin J. Wesner, '25, 4607 Fair­field. 
Indianapolis—^Nicholas J. Connor, Jr., '36, 38 Shelby St. Michigan Ci/}--Francis G. Fedder, '31, E. Cool-spring Ave. Si. Joseph Valley—Tr^inds M. Mcssick, '30, 1333 E. Wayne St., South Bend. Tri-Slate (Ky., Ind. and III.)—Robert L. Hen­nebeiger, '35, 126 E. 4th St., Mt. Carmel, HI. Wabash Valley^-Dr. Kenneth F. La»>-s, '36, 501-5 Lafayette Life Bldg., Lafaj-ette. 
IOWA—DM Moines—Robert J. Tieman, '40, 650 
39th St. Dubuque—Roljert H. Kenlinc, '35, 418 Bank & Insurance Bldg. Quad-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, East Moline)—John R. Coryn, '22, 2545 13th St., Aloline. 
KANSAS—£i««£rii—Judge Joseph J. Dawes, '26, 420 Arch St., Leavenworth. 
KENTUCKY—Jamci C. Carrico. '35. 2903 S. Fourth St., Louisville. 
LOUISIANA—Veai Or/eani—Jules K. dc la Vergne, '38, 5811 Hurst. 
NLARYLAND-Bn/limore-Franklyn C. Hochreiter, '35, 1327 Pentwood Rd. 
MASSACHUSETTS—BoKon— John V. Moran, '30. Costello, Moran & Mahan, 31 State St. Pioneer Valley—Henry M. Padden, '24, 342 Sargeant St., Holj-oke. 
MICHIG.AN—BfrnVn CounO-—William H. Dovi-ncv, '28, 60 N. St. Joseph Ave., Mies. Blue Water Z)ii(nV(—William L. Wilson, '42, 
P.O. Box 295, Port Huron. Central—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, '18, 828 N. Logan St., Lansing. 
flilroi"/-Thomas J. Moran, '35, 1329 Bucking­ham Rd., Grosse Pointe 30. Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—Frederick 
C. Gast, '37, 322 Auburn Ave., S.E. Hiaxathaland—Pxul Kreuz, '33, 1215 Michigan Ave., ^fenominee, Mich. 
Iron Range—Robert T. O'Callaghan, '45, 635 McLcod .Ave., Ironwood, 
J/onror—Thomas E. Griffin. '33, 205 E. Third St. Saginaiv I"o/Zo—Herbert R. Schittttlcr. '22, 1827 llancliclt St.. Saginaw. 
-MIN.VESOT.A-r:nn C.ViVj—Thomas M. Hart. '28. Northwestern Bank Bldg., Minneapolis. DufuH-SuJierior—Wm. E. Cotter, Jr., '41, 1929 
E. Superior St., Duluth. 
MISSOURI—Kanriir Ci(}^(Mo. and Kans.)—Rob­ert Pendergast, '35, 405 W. 59th St. Terrace, Kansas City, Mo. 
St. Louis—}oha J. Grillia, Jr., '39, 7236 North-moor Dr., University City 5. 
MONTAN.A-Bernard Grainey, '43, 801 12th Ave., Helena. 
.\EBR.\SK.\—Eugene F. Milbourn. '39, 4431 Ca>s St., Omaha. 
NEW JERSEY—Thomas B. Hogan, '38, 27 St. Laurence Ave., Maplewood. 
South y.TJO'—Valentine B. Dcale, '39. RC.\, Victor Div. 15-3; Camden, N. J. Cen/raf-Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy. 
.VEW YORK—Bu#o;o—Daniel C. Shecdy '39, 390 
Roycroft Blvd., Snyder. Capital Districl-.Aadrcw M. Pinckney. '41, 14 Circle Lane, .-Mhany. 
Cen/ro/—Daniel A. Kclley, '41, 706 Stinard St., SyTacuse 4. 
Mohawk Valley—F. Donald Fullem, '30, 203 Roosevelt Dr., Utlca. 
A'f.-f York Ci/}'—James H. Shells. '35. 50 Pine 
St. Northern—Rev. Donald S. Galbgher, '24, St. Bernard's Rectory, Lyon Mountain. 
Rochester-John M. Hedges, Jr.. '43. 141 Scio 
St. 
Schnectady—George G. Thompson. '42, 514 Charles St.. Scotia 2. Triple Cities—Dr. J. Worden Kane, '26, 55 Overside Dr., Binghamton. 
OHIO—.4iron—Paul A. Bertsch, '29, 159 Oakdale 
Ave. Con/on-William H. Belden, '36, 305 22nd St., N.W. 
Cincinnati—John C. Cottingham, '38, Pcnn Mu­tual Life Insurance Co., 1200 Union Trust Bldg. 
Cleveland—Rohcn N. Stack, '41, 2714 Brook­dale A\-e., Parma. 
Columbus—Dr. Thomas M. Hughes, '38, 481 
E. Town St. 
i)o>/on—Thomas C. Ferneding, '40, 530 E. Had­ley Ave., Apt. 1. 
Hamilton—Judge Harry F. Walsh, *31, Munici­pal Court. 
Ohio I'aK*)*—William J. Yaeger, '42, 156 S. Park St., Wheeling, W. Va. Sandusky—Allnd A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, S. Co­lumbus Ave. 
Toledo—John R. Malone, '42, 4805 Summit St. Youngstown—Clarence T. Sheehan, '40, '"The Vindicator." 

OKLAHOMA—Tulja—William B. Padon, '42, 9 Woodland Dr., Box 1589. Oklahoma Ci/j-—Haskell Askew, '31, 624 Trades­men National Bank Bldg. 
OREGO.N—Peter F. Sandrock, '39, 6334 NE Grand Ave., Portland. 
PEN'NSYLVANIA—£aj(ern—Leo R. McIntyTe, '28, 3004 Turner St., Allentovvn. EnV—Joseph C. Barber^ '36, 705 Ariel Bldg. Harrisburg—Edward R. Eckenrode, Jr., '44, 
1951 Belletiie Rd. Monongahela Valley—George C. Martinet, '34, 
R.D. No. 1, Charieroi. 
Philadelphia—Ambrose F. Dudley, Jr., '43, 1123 N. 63rd St. 
Pillrburffc—Eugene J. Coyne, '33, Coyne Ave., Allison Park. 
Jrran/on—Michael B. Comerford, '43, 1208 Richmont St. 
Wilkes-Barre—V>r. Maurice J. Regan, '31, 115 
S. Franklin St. 
ira/iaiw/ior/—Frank C. Hayes, '27, 820 Eric Ave., Renovo. 

RHODE ISLAN'D and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS— Russell L. Hunt, '39, 412 Providence St., Woon­socket, R. I. 
TENNESSEE—JV/emffcij—Phil M. Canale, Jr., '40, 1325 Commerce Title Bldg. 
TEXAS—Daf/oi-Edmond R. Haggar, '38, 6113 Lem­mon Ave. 
Wour/on-Charles S. .Atchison, '30, 2320 Blue­bonnet. 
San Antonio—heanard M. Hess, '25, 201 Sun-ford Dr. 

UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearns Bldg., Salt Lake City. 
VIRGINIA—Dr. Charles R. Riley, '39, 3508 Sem­inary Ave., Richmond 22. 
WASHINGTON—Ifwjern—John P. English, '33, J. 
P. English Steel Co., 465 E. 15th St., Tacoma. Spokane—John P. O'Neill, Jr., '29, 218 W. 14th Ave. 

WEST VIRGINLA—Albert H. Kessing, '40, 925 Montrose Dr., S. Charleston 3. 
\VISCONSIN—Cr«n i?iij--Harold L. Londo, '24, Sup't., Green Bay Water Dept. Fox River FoHo'-^William H. Fieweger, '36, 497 River**"ay, Menasha. 
LaCrolK—August M. Grams, '28, 217 S. Front St. 
Jraa'nuit«—William C. Mabney, '41, 4012 N. Farwell. 
South Central-John C Brennan, '41, 2331 Eton Ridge, Madison. 
FOREIGN CLUBS Bengal. India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, (key man) Dacca, East Bengal. 
Cu6o—Christopher C. Fitzgerald, '94, {key man), La Metropolitana (711), Habana. 
Hax-aii—Thomas W. Flynn, Jr., '35, 5317 Opi­hi St., Honolulu, T.H. 
Manila—^Anthony F. Gonzales, '25, (key man). The Insular Life Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular Life Bldg. 
Pamimo—^Villiam J. Sheridan, '38, Box 605, Ancon., Canal Zone. • 
Puerto AVo—Paul F. IlfcManus, '34, (key man), B & M Products Company, Box 2695, San Juan. 







