The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
mlm booiE i s flo* ** ^* %&ks& froa *^« Library 

THE NOTRE DAME 
ALUMNUS 
MICHAEL O. BURNS, LLB. "86, Hamilton, Ohio. Secretary, Golden Anniversary Class. President, Notre Dame Club of Hamilton. 
MARCH, 1936 

March 31,1931 ANNIVERSARY March 31, 1936 
". . . In an age that has stamped itself as the era of the 'go-getter'—a horrible word for what is all too often a ruthless thing—he was a 'go-giver'—a not much better word, but it means a divine thing. He made use of all the proper machinery and the legitimate methods of modern activity to be essen­tially not modern at all; to be quite elementarily human and Christian, giving himself, spending him­self like water, not for himself, but for others. And once again, in his case, most illustriously is verified the Christian paradox—he has cast away to keep, he has lost his life to find it. This is not death but immortality." From the funeral oration, "The Ever­lasting Arms," by Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, *25 The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association Member of the American of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. Ihe subscription price is $2.00 
Editor Alumni Council. 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual nlumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 
WlLUAM R . DboLEY, 7 6 Member of Nal'I. Catholic 
1923, at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879. All Managing Editor correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 31. Notre Dame. Ind. Alumni Federation. 
Vol. XIV. March, 1936 No. 6 
Notre Dame Night Already Breaking Record 
Club Meetings Planned Far Ahead Promise Brilliant Observ­
ance; National Radio Hoolc-Up Almost Certain; More 

Than 150 Local Stations Already Pledged to Cooperate 
Notre Dame's Thirteenth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night on Mon­day, .A.prU 20, is following the great Notre Dame tradition of progress. 
Clubs, as reflected in the Club sec­tion of this issue, are already plan­ning significant programs for the ob­servance. 
With returns coming in daily, more than 150 local radio stations, from coast to coast, have promised to re­peat the outstanding cooperation of last year, when 132 stations brought some phase of the campus to the near and far alumni. 
.^t the present writing, there is eveiy indication that a national radio hook-up, featuring Notre Dame ex­clusively, will be possible. This na­tion-wide hook-up has a coordinating value readily appreciated. Last year's program, wliich came through the courtesy of the Studebaker program, received widespread acclaim from alumni. The radio is pai-ticularly sig­nificant for those thousands of alum­ni who do not enjoy Club facilities, and for the unnumbered friends of the Univei'sity, near and far, who lis­ten with interest to all programs orig­inating through Notre Dame. 
Next month's ALUJIXUS will carry complete details of the national broadcast. 
Many alumni will be called upon, as the}- were last year, to cooperate with the local radio programs in bringing Notre Dame in an interest­ing and informative light to the var­ious communities. 
In the meantime, with all outside agencies extending their fullest sup­port and enthusiasm to the obsei-v­ance, it is more a formality than a necessity to remind the Local Alumni Clubs that the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting has much more than even the usual importance attached. While every Club meeting-offers op­portunity for constructive activities of the individual members of the Club; while the Club, in each of its sessions, has the power of impressing itself upon its community as a factor for intellectual, Christian leadership; and while every gathering offers an invaluable wedge for the introduc­tion of Notre Dame's welfare and progress;—the importance of Uni­vereal Notre Dame Night, and the ac­tual universality of it, have made the observance no longer a matter of Club choice. Through press and I'adio the great Notre Dame public sees and hears the spirit of Notre Dame, and most naturally looks to the Notre Dame men in the immedi­ate neighborhood for a local manifes­tation. 
Therefore, the reason for holding a meeting is of gi-eat public impor­tance to the Club. -A.nd, similarly, the desii-ability of holding a meeting in keeping with all of the implications 
ALBERT F . Z.-VHM, '83 

Honorary president of the association 
of the Night and its growth, is evi­
dent. 
As suggested, Notre Dame and the officers of the jUumni Association have only the greatest regard and en­couragement for the response of the Clubs in the past to the Universal Night programs. 
These suggestions are offered only as a stimulus to any Club which may not yet have appointed its committees for the meeting of April 20. 
Early preparation means added op­portunity to realize the possibilities of the Night. These possibilities are established points of procedure in most Clubs: cultivation of that envi­able fraternal spirit that is the pecu­liar property of Notre Dame; the painting of the whole Notre Dame picture for friend and stranger alike, with the spiritual and academic blended with those physical evidences that the great public knows so well; the introduction of the prospective student to the men and traditions of Notre Dame; the renewing of per­sonal acquaintances with the mem-' bers of the faculty who each year meet with a growing number of the Clubs. 
-As in the twelve preceding years, the University and the Alumni Office are ready and willing to cooperate with the Clubs in securing the pres­ence of members of the faculty of Notre Dame at as many Club meet­ings as circumstances permit. 
The moving pictures of football games will cause many Clubs disap­pointment, as the several sets have already been secured at this early date for the night of .A.pril 20 by as many enterprising Clubs. 
But between campus representa­tives, the local radio stations and the national chain program, every Notre Dame man in the world will have a chance on that occasion to hear some manifestation of his alma mater in reminiscent song or story. 
152  Th e  Notr e  Dam e  Alumnu s  March.  1936  
Tune In on April 20; N. D. on the Air Record Number of Local Stations Promise Cooperation; Return s Still Coming In.  Francis O'Neill Dies  

The stations below have promised cooperation in bringing to the aliimni and friends of Notre Dame in their communities some angle of Notre Dame on April 20. A few are provid­ing for afternoon mention. Most are joining in the obser%'ation on the Night itself, when the alumni groups will be together. 
In all cases, local station publicity will undoubtedly carry the exact time and nature of the participation. The ALUMNUS urges all alumni and through them the friends of the Uni­versity to express their appreciation for the cooperation of these stations, and to volunteer any assistance. Many specific requests will be made for alumni help by the Alumni Office or the stations. Response of alunmi to these requests will aid in the con­tinuing help of these stations. 
KABC—San Antonio, Texas KARK—Little Rock. Ark. KBTM—Joncsboro. Ark. KDKA—Pittsburgh. Pa. KDON—Del Monte. Calif. KFAC—Los Anseles, Calif. KFBI—Abilene, Kansas KFDM—Beaumont Texas KFEL & KVOD—Denver. Colo. KFEQ—St Joseph. Mo. KFIO—Spokane. Wash. KFJZ—Fort Worth. Texas KFKA—Greeley, Colo. KFRC—San Francisco KFRU—Columbia. Mo. 
KFXD—Nampa. Idaho KGBX—SprinEfield. Mo. KGCU—Mandan. No. Dak. KGDE—Fersus Falls. Minn. KGDY—Huron, So. Dak. KGFX—Pierre, So. Dak. 
KGGC—San Francisco KGKB—Tyler. Texas KGKO—Wichita Falls. Te-tas KGKY—ScottsbluiT. Neb. KGNO—Dodce City. Kans. 
KGVO—Missoula, Mont, KHQ—Spokane, Wash. 
KHSL—Chico, Calif. 
KIDO—^Boise. Idaho KIEM—Eureka, Calif. KIUJ—Santa Fe, N. M. 
KIUL—Garden City, Kans. KIUN—Pecos, Texas KIUP—^DuranKO, Colo. KJBS—San Francisco KLS—Oakland. Calif. KMBC—Kansas City, Mo. KMED—Medford. Ore. KNOW—Austin, Texas KOIL—Omaha, Neb. KOIN & KALE—Portland. Ore. KOMA—Oklahoma City KONO—^San Antonio. Texas KOOS—Marshfield. Ore. KRKD—Los Anceles, Calif. KRLC—Lcwiston. Idaho 
KRLH—Midland. Texas 
KROC—Rochester. Minn. KRSC—SeatOe, Wash. KTBS—Shr«veport. La. 
KTFI—Twin Falls. Idaho 
KTRB—Modesto, Calif. 
KTSM—El Paso. Texas 
KVI—Tacoma, Wash. 
KVOA—Tucson. Ariz. 
KVOL—Lafayette. La. 
KVOO—Tulsa. Okla. 
KWBG—Hutchinson. Kans. 
KWK—St Louis, Mo. 
KWKC—Kansas City. Mo. 
KWKH—Shreveport La. 
KWYO—Sheridan. Wyo. 
KXA—Seattle. Wash. WAAF—ChicaKO, 111­WACO—Waco, Texas WAGM—Presque Isle, Me. WALA—Mobile, Ala. WALR—Zanesville. O. WATR—Waterbury. Conn. WB.\L—Baltimore, Md. WBAX—Wilkes-Barro. Pa. WBIG—Greensboro. N. C. WBNY—Buffalo, N. Y. WERE-Red Bank. N. J. WERC—Birmincham, Ala. WERE—Wilkcs-Barre. Pa. WET-Charlotte. N. C. \\TJTM—Danville. Va. WCAP—Asbury Park. N. J. WCBS—Sprinsfield, III. WCLO—.Tancsville. Wis. 
WCLS—.Joliet. Ill, 
WCMI—Ashland. Ky. WOOL—Columbus. Ohio WCOP—Boston. Mass. WCPO—Cincinnati, Ohio WCSC—Charleston, S. C. ^VDBO—Orlando, Fla. \\'DEV—Waterbury, Vt. WDOD—Chattanoosa, Tenn. WDSU—New Orleans, La. WEBC—Dulath. Minn. WEBR—Buffalo, N, Y. WEDC—ChicjiKO, HI. WEED—Rocky Mount N. Car. WEEI—Boston. Mass. WELL—Battle Creek. Mich. WEXL—Royal Oak. Mich. WPAM & WSBT—South Bend. Ind. WFAS—White Plains. N. Y. WFBG—Altoona, Pa. WFBL—Syracuse. N. Y. WFBM—Indianapolis. Ind. WFBR—Baltimore. Md. 
WFIL—Philadelphia. Pa. WGAR—Cleveland, Ohio 
WGN—Chicaffo, 111. WGH—^Newport News, Va. 
WGR—Buffalo, N. Y. 
^VHAM—Rochester, N. Y. WHAT—Philadelphia, Pa. 
WHBC—Canton. Ohio 
WHBF—Rock Island. HI. ^\'HBQ—Memphis. Tenn. 
WHDL—Olc-ln. N. Y. 
WHEG—Rochester, N. Y. 
•WHEF & WSXAW—Kosciusko, Miss. WHFG—CbicaBo. III. ^\'HJB—Grecnsburtr, Pa. WHK—Qcveland. Ohio WIBG—Philadelphia. Pa. WIBX—Utica. N. Y. WIND—Gary, Ind. ^VIRE—Indianapolis. Ind. WJBL—Decatur. III. 
WJEW—New Orleans, La. 
WJJD—Chicago. HI. 
WJW—Akron, Ohio 
WKBH—LaCrosse, Wis. 
WKEU—Griffin, Ga. 
WKZO—Kalamazoo, Mich. 
WLAP—Lexington, Ky. 
WLBC—^Muncie. Ind. 
IVLEU—Erie, Pa, 
WLLH—Lowell, Mass. 
^VLTH-New York City 
WLW—Cincinnati. Ohio 
•\VMCA—New York City ^\'MAS—Springileld. Mass. WMBC—Detroit, Mich. IVMBG—Richmond. Va. WMBH—Joplin. Mo. 
\VIBM—Jackson, Mich. 
WMBO—Auburn, N. Y. 
WMFF—Plattsburg. N. Y. 
\VMFO—Decatur, Ala. 
\VJIMN—Fairmont W. Va. 
WNBR—Memphis, Tenn. 
WNEW—Newark. N. J. 
WOPI—Bristol, Tenn. 
WORL—Boston. Mass. 
WOWO—Fort Wayne, Ind. 
WPAD—^Paducah, Ky. 
WPAR—Parkershurg, W. Va. 
WPRO—Providence, E. L 
WRDW—Augusta, Ga. 
WROL—Knoxville, Tenn. 
WSAR—Fall River. Mass. 


Gave Notable Irish Collection to University 
Notre Dame lost a loyal friend aud quiet benefactor the past month with the passing of Francis O'Neill, of Chicago, at the age of 87. Recog­nized as an outstanding authority in the field of Irish folk-lore and music Mr. O'Neill, during his lifetime, com­piled a carefully selected library con­cerning his hobby which was the envy of scholars of Hibemiana. This li­brary, together with rare treatises on Irish history, music and archeology, comprising in all 1500 volumes, was given to the University a few years ago -ivithout solicitation, by Mr. O'Neill. 
Francis O'Neill was identified prominently in Chicago history. His boyhood was spent at his birthplace at Bantry, County Cork. While still in his teens he sailed the Mediter­ranean and Black Seas. His taste for seafaring temporarily sated he re­turned to Ireland where he acquired the academic background which was to prove so helpful to him in later years. He came to the United States and, through the influence of friends, he became connected with the Chi­cago police department. His educa­tion and industrj' moved him rapidly from advancement to advancement in the department, until in 1901 he was named by Carter Harrison, then mayor of Chicago, as superintendent of police. His activities in that of­fice gained him public attention, his most noteworthy contribution to civic betterment being the apprehension and dissolution of the notorious "car bam gang." 
Through all his years as a public official Mr. O'Neill continued his re­searches into the field of Irish folk­lore and music. To recapture an an­cient tune he would travel many miles on the rumor that at the end of his journey he would find someone playing old Irish music, perhaps long forgotten. These elusive melodies were incorporated in the seven au­thoritative books written by Mr. O'Neill. 
WSBC—Chicago, HI. WSFA—Montgomery, Ala. WSJS—Winston-Salem. N. C. WSMK—Dayton. O. WSOC—Charlotte. S. C. WSPA—Spartansburg, S. C. W.SYR & WSYU—Syracuse. N. Y. WTAM—Cleveland. Ohio WTBO—Cumberland, Md. WTCN'—Minneapolis, Minn. WTEL—Philadelphia, Pa. WTMJ—Milwaukee. Wis. WVFW—Brooklyn, N. Y. WWRI^-Woodside. L.L, N. Y. WWSW—Pittsburgh. Pa. 

March, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Graduate Apologetics For Laymen 
Intensive graduate training for Catholic lay writers is contemplated as Notre Dame's next contribution to Catholic Action. A two-year gradu­ate course in Apologetics has been drawn up by a committee at the Uni­versity, and will be included in the curriculum next September if proper financial backing can be secured for the work. 
Behind the establishment of this new course is the conviction that the root evil of secular thought today is the Modernism that was condemned by Pope Pius X in the early years of his Pontificate. In tivo encyclicals, "Pascendi dominici gregis," and "La­mentabili," the Holy Father pointed out an all-embracing source of error in the modern concept of knowledge, and enumerated in a comprehensive syllabus many of the false teachings in the field of Scripture and History that have led Protestants and some Catholic s away from traditional Christianity. With the keen foresight one comes to expect of the Holy See, Pope Pius X showed that disintegra­tion of principles is bound to follow from the root evils he pointed out. He gave to this evil the name of "Modernism," and he called it "the syntheses of all heresies." 
Unfortunately, few Catholic lay writers in this country have had suffi-' cient intensive training in Philosophy and Religion to see the whole picture as it was presented by Pius X and as it has worked out in secular thought since 1907. 
There has been in recent yeai-s a strong demand for a new approach to Apologetics in this country, an ap­proach suited to current needs. It has been pointed out that our cate­chism training of children has drilled them in the Catholic answers to the Protestant objections of generations ago — objections that are no longer" heard; that there has been insufficient recognition of the fact that the com­mon objections to religion nowadays are made by agnostics, whether prag­matists, humanitarians, utilitarians, or followers of any one of a wide number of philosophies that attempt to substitute for Christianity. 
To meet this just complaint, Notre Dame has prepared to undertake a two-year experiment in the training of Catholic graduate students who 
By REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C. President of the' University 
Father O'Hara Reveals Plans of the Uni­
versity for a New Graduate Course Based 

Upon Current Needs in Catholic Action 
have been thoroughly instructed in Scholastic Philosophy as undergradu­ates, and who have already demon­strated ability to ^vrite. It hopes to gather these men from among the most talented of the recent graduates of Catholic colleges and universities. 
As now designed, this new program calls for a certain minimum of work in fundamental problems of Apolo­getics, and beyond that leaves room for each student to pursue cognate studies in some particular branch for which he seems to have talent. Some may prefer problems of economics and social justice, others may be gifted as historians, still others may desire to probe the fundamental prin­ciples of government. Again, diversi­fication of talent may offer us novel­ists and poets as well as essayists. 
The fundamental courses proposed at present are as follows: 
1.
 Advanced -Apologetics: a struc­tural outline course, with intensive study of the proofs of the existence of God and the divinity of the Cath­olic Church. 

2.
 The Holy Scriptures: a), the Encyclical of Pope Leo XIII, Provi­dentissimus Dens; b). pi-oof of the authenticity and historical value of the Bible; c). supervised reading of the Sacred Text. 

3.
 Patrology: study of certain Fa­thers of the Church who have an­swered such errors of paganism as are revived in modernism. 


F.^THER HUDSON 
Editor for 5S Years 

4.
 Church History: an outline course, with special emphasis on events and interpretations' called in question by present-day writers. 

5.
 Ethics: general and special ethics, viewed in the light of current errors in the "philosophy of value." 

6.
 The .A.rt of 'Writing: A practical course. 


Arnold Lunn, whose controversial writings and lectures have been well received in this country, has promised to assist in the training of the can­didates for tWs work. The services of Shane Leslie have also been pledged, and it will be possible for the student to consult with Christo­pher HoUis, who will continue at the University on a research project in economics. The other professors will. be chosen from among the present members of the faculty, and may in­clude such men as Fathers Miltner and 'Ward, who are now studying at Louvain; Father "Walsh, former presi­dent of the University;Father George Marr; Father Hoff, former president of Mt. St. Charles (now Carroll) College, Helena, Montana; Professor 
T. Boyer Campbell, acting dean of the College of Arts and Letters; Father Bolger, and others. 
The problem of finance has been mentioned. It is all important. Schol­arships must be provided for at least ten students if there is to be a suffi­cient nucleus of men for this work. A current scholarship for two years represents §1,500. A foundation for such a scholarship can be established for $15,000. Ten donors of ?1,500 each will insure the opening of this experiment next September. 'When this assurance is received, the Uni­versity will proceed to select the ten candidates. 
If the alumni believe that this pro­posal answers a need, if they feel that they want lay Catholic ^vriters trained at Notre Dame under this plan, they can contribute to its suc­cess. One scholarship will be left open for small donations—of $1.00 and up—and is hereby opened with a donation of $25.00 from an unnamed alumnus. It will be called the Daniel 
E. Hudson Scholarship, in memory of the saintly priest who for fifty-five years edited The Ave Maria. It is hoped that other men famous in the literary tradition of Notre Dame may be similarly memorialized. 
154  Th e  Notr e  Dam e  Alumnu s  March,  1936  
The  President's Message President Voll Points Out Opportunity For Alumni to Participate in New Graduate Course  Hoosier Art Prize  

Many as the sources of pride in Notre Dame have been for her alum-. ni, Father O'Hara's presentation of the proposed graduate course in apol­ogetics in this issue must bring a new thrill of intellectual pleasure to eveiT Notre Dame man. 
Implications of the program are as 
far-reaching as are the opportunities 
of the Church in the modem world. 
President Roosevelt, whose voice-
is now the voice of a Notre Dame 
alumnus, said on February 23 in a 
radio address: 

". . .We who have faith cannot afford to fall out among ourselves. The very state of the world is a summons-to stand together, for as I see it, the chief religious issue is not between • our various beliefs. It is between be­lief and unbelief. . . . Religion in-wide areas of the earth is being con­fronted with irreligion. . . " 
Father O'Hara has pointed out that the great struggle today is in the field of apologetics. 
MODERN EQUIPMENT 
Notre Dame, in the course outlined, takes definite cognizance of this mod­em trend and adapts its teaching so that the Notre Dame man goes into the modem world with up-to-date equipment. 
Culturally, as. well as spiritually, this provision for the lay Catholic leadership (always under the direc­tion of the hierarchy), which the great program of Catholic Action im­plies, is boundless in its -^-ision: Armed, Father O'Hara points out, with the fundamentals of intellec­tual Catholicit}', the young man of outstanding promise may go his chosen way—social sciences, histoiy, literature, natural science, govern­ment. 
Properly pursued along the lines ' of the course as planned at Notre Dame, the influence and the value of the leadership so trained carry ob­vious appeals. 
A word is probably in keeping in , connection with the suggestion for contributions from alumni for the furthei-ance of this program. 
Alumni dues, as handled by the Alumni Association, are largely a 
matter of pride, largely a matter of procedure. 
An appeal of the kind voiced in Father . O'Hara's statement goes far beyond either factor, and becomes a matter of progress, a progress in which those who respond to such an appeal share both tangible and in­tangible benefits. 
FATHER HUDSON 
it was a happy circumstance that dictated the naming of the iirst con-ti-ibution toward a current scholar­ship in honor of the late Father Hudson. 
It would be difiicult at Notre Dame, to select an individual who could more beautifully typify great faith, informed and motivated by a deep understanding of his faith. The far-reaching influence of the editor of The Ave Marici on American litera­ture for a half centuiy-—so vividly recalled in the recent moving of the body of the beloved Father Damien­frora Molokai—is tribute to the pow­er of Catholicitj- to enlighten and direct natui-al talents. 

And, while Father Hudson was perhaps the symbol of the hope of the new curriculum, Notre Dame men have little trouble in \-isualizing its results in young men of varied inter­ests and achievements, who will fol­low the digressing but happy paths of such men of an older Notre Dame as Father John A. Zahm, Father John Cavanaugh, Charles Warren Stod­dard, Jlaurice Francis Egan, Profes;­sor Jimmy Edwards, Father Arthur Barrj' O'Neill, Father Charles L. O'Donnell, Professor Charles Phillips, and their glorious company. 
It is a privilege that one of these scholarships is to be open for small donations, so that this great project can be shared by young alumni as well as old. 
Unfortunately, few Noti-e Dame men could, regardless of their willing­ness, participate in the larger gifts. Many have friends, however, who will see the immediate appeal of this pro-gi-am. It is certain that Catholic America will not let this far-sighted concept of ser\-ice fail. 
(sig.) Bernard J. Voll. 
Professor E. Jacques Wins 
Reilly Award for Painting 

At the Hoosier .\rt salon in Chi­cago recently Professor Emil Jac­ques, head of the Fine Arts Depart­ment at Notre Dame, was awarded the Peter C. Reilly prize for the best work submitted by a teacher of art in an Indiana college or uni-
PKOFESSOR JACQUES 

versity. His subject was "Sun Play." Mr. Reilly, of Indianapolis, is a lay trustee of the University. 
An exhibit of the paintings of Professor Jacques was held in the John Herron Art Institute in In­dianapolis during all February. 
The collection included 40 can­%'asses, depicting both landscapes and portraits. Mr. Jacques opened the exhibit in person ^nth a lecture. 
Professor Jacques has been on the faculty at Notre Dame for seven years. His outstanding work is be­lieved to be a series of religious pic­tures which decorate the Cathedral of St. Mary's at Portland, Oregon. 
KOBAK CHANGES JOBS 

Edgar Kobak, New York City, who got part of his early education as a minim at Notre Dame, will on March 15 assume his new duties as vice-president of Lord and Thomas, one of the countrj^'s leading advertsing agencies. Mr. Kobak is now, and has been for the past two yeai's, vice­pi-esident in charge of sales for the National Broadcasting Company. Pre­viously, he had been ^•ice-president and general sales manager of the McGraw - Hill Publishing Company, New York City. He is a former president of the Advertising Federa­tion of America. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Constitutional Amendment Needed -- Now 
By REV. WILLIAM A. BOLGER, C.S.C, Head, Department of Economics. 
In Observance of the Anniversary of Lincoln's Birthday, Father Bolger Addressed the Radio Audience of WGN, Chicago, on February 11; These Were His Impressive Words. 
"We hold these ti-uths to he self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, and among them are life, lib­erty, and the pursuit of happiness. ... " These are the immortal words of Jefferson. 
Four score and seven years later Lincoln at Gettysburg reasserted that America was "conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. . . " 
Conception in liberty and dedica­tion to equality constitute the distinc­iive political heritage and glory of America. 
America's world mission, as I con­ceive it, is to illustrate in the lives of her citizens, and in all her laws and institutions, the true meaning of that liberty in which she was con­ceived and to which she has been ded­icated. 
The liberty in which America was conceived and the equality to which America has been dedicated cannot be preserved unless we understand well their origin, which is entirely Christian. In the ancient pagan civ­ilization into which Christ was born nothing was so cheap, so contemp­tible, as the individual human being. Unpromising children were put to death at the will of parents. Slaves were put to death by the master for any reason, or no reason. Citizens had no rights as individuals which the state was bound to respect or pro­tect. The individual was the mere means to the aggrandizement of some­one else as an end. 
- Christianity Discovered Individual 
After Christ, and because of Christ's teaching, hencefonvard and forever all is changed. The life of every individual human being is in­finitely precious. He has cost the redemptive death of the man Jesus Christ, who was God. Hencefonvard, the individual is an end in himself. All things else are means. 
It is simple truth that Christianitj' discovered the individual; proclaimed that he is an end in himself; pro­claimed his infinite dignity and worth, and the inviolable sacredness of his duty and right to live a life worthy 
FATHER BOLGER 

'What Is That Liberty. 
of a man and a Christian; proclaimed that all, Jew and Greek, male and fe­male, slave and master, friend and foe, have the same fundamental rights; and that the rights of any one have the same inviolable sacredness as the rights of any other. Hence­foi-ward and forever, it is murder di­rectly to kill an innocent human be­ing, be he king, or idiot, or unborn child, or tired man of the twentieth century. 
Cardinal Bellarmtne's Influence 
Where did Jefferson find these principles of fundamental rights and fundamental equality? He found them where, alone they were, where all the English and American Whigs found them, in the works of Cardinal Bellai-mine, at that time the best po­litical expression of Christian tradi­tion. Filmer's summarj' of Bellar­mine's doctrines is now among Jef­fei-son's books in the Librajy of Con­gress. Young James Madison, as a student in Princeton, read Bellar­mine's works in the original Latin. 
It is plain then that America was conceived in Christian liberty. It is plain also that any attack on Christi­anity, of which this liberty is an in­tegral part, is an attack on the liberty in which America was conceived. 
Today the world stands aghast at the sight of the most colossal attack on Christianity in all history, which is also the most deadly attack on human liberty, the Bolshevism of Russia. Just as in ancient paganism there was neither independence nor worth in man, body and soul he belonged to the state, so it today is in Communist-Russia. 
Says Calvin Hoover, in his Eco­nomic Life of Soviet Russia, "Never in history have the mind and spirit of man been so robbed of freedom and dignity. The Communist party is not content with mere abstention from unauthorized action. Men must publicly deny their real thoughts and feelings." The Bolshevist is first of all an atheist, and he is histori''s best illustration of the tragic truth that the anti-God man by a law of his be­ing inevitably becomes the most ruth­less anti-man man. 
Now precisely what is that liberty in which America was conceived and which it is the world mission of America to preserve? 
It is just this, the right and the op­portunity to exercise all one's funda­mental rights. And what is a natural and fundamental right? It is a moral claim to some indispensably necessary means of right and reasonable life, indiWdual or social. To illustrate, a man would quickly die in these sub­zero days could he not obtain food and clothing and shelter. The right to acquire, to hold and to use food and clothing and shelter and all other goods necessary for right and reason­able life is called the fundamental and natural right to property. 
A little thought will reveal that the right to worship God, the right to be taught, the right to marry, the right to work or subsistence, the right to have all one's fundamental rights pro­tected by government, are among the natural and fundamental rights of men. They do not come from men but from God. Governments exist to protect them. All social institutions exist to make their exercise possible. 
A Decent Livelihood 

Let us think pi-actically for a mo­ment about one of man's most impor­tant natural and fundamental rights, the neglect to protect which is one of America's most conspicuous failures and dangers, the right to decent live­lihood. Does such a right exist? We shall not take time to prove its exist­ence. In the midst of the most abounding plenty the world has ever 

(Continued on Page 167) 




The P ower Behind The Team 
By SISTER M. HELEN, C.S.C, M.A. '26 

{Reprinted from The Annals of Our Lady of Lourdcs) 
The Mighty Dome with the Golden 

Lady and the World at Her Feet 
Perhaps you were one of the 80,000 or more spectators who crowd­ed the stadium in Columbus on No­vember 2nd to see Notre Dame beat Ohio State. If not, surely you were one of the many other thousands who pressed around the radio in cverj' live city in the United States. I belonged to this second and larger audience, but I would not have exchanged my straight-back chair in the convent community room for any t\venty-five dollar seat in the grand stand. For, from my advantageous position, I saw something which the 80,000 could not see—or even many who might see would not undersatp.d—the secret be­hind that surprising, spectacular, last-minute victory, the ludden power be­hind the team. 
It may astonish some to learn that nuns are enthusiastic football fans. Yet football, as a hobby, has been traditional in our community since the dear days when a Sister of pre­cious memorj' passed through the cloister halls begging '-A.ves' for the boys. And the same boys gave testi­mony to their faith in her pi-ayers by standing, one hundred strong, with bowed heads in the convent cemetery when her saintly body was laid to rest. 
But enough of preliminaries, and on with my story. 
Outside, the flurry of an early snowstorm stirred the crisp November air. Brown leaves scurried away into the garden comers and under the shelter of hedges. Within the usually quiet convent there was also a flurry of excitement as white-capped Sisters hurried to and fro finishing their Saturday morning tasks. It was the day of the Notre Dame-Ohio State football game! For a week past the recreation period had been given over to football specula­tion. Indeed it was highly amusing to hear some retiring little Sister, who would run into hiding if any one of those stalwart football warriors had presented himself at the convent door, remark familiarlj* what a fine boy Elmer was, or go into a verbal rhapsody over some of the players. 
Bumors of the strength of the Ohio State team had crossed the Rockies and filled the more timid souls with alarm. This was to be a real contest, a gigantic struggle, and each Sister's ' heart thrilled with the high adventure of it. Even the little nun who picks up a newspaper with her finger-tips as if it were something unclean, was caught, early in the morning, scan­ning the sports section for prospects of the day. 
By eleven - thirty practically the . whole community had assembled around the i-adio, eager and expect­ant. Some were armed with knitting; others with darning or embroidery to soothe the conscience and fulfill the proverbial saying that a Sister is never idle. 

The Victory March 
The local announcer, to show where his heart was, presented, by way of a phonograph record, the Notre Dame Victory March. A young Sister took up the tune, slightly off key, but even the music teacher did not seem to mind since the words were the words of the famous song. -\nd the game was on! 
Just then the dinner gong sounded, and the Superior, with a determined look in her usually benign eyes, headed for the refectory, followed by forty reluctant feet. No, I should have said thirty-eight, for as I passed the door a moment later to refill the water pitcher, I saw the youngest of our football fans crouched on her knees before the radio, a black shawl over her head to muflie the sound, looking like a photographer posed for action. 
Appetites were small; desserts un­touched. Dinner over, the grace said (not, I fear, without distraction), the Sisters returned to the game. The first half was over and the score stood 13-0 in favor of Ohio State. 
The Boarders, with solemn faces, trooped into the chapel at the begin­ning of the third quarter. Mormon, Jew and Gentile had caught the trag­edy of the situation. To them, per­haps, Notre Dame meant nothing in particular. They did not vision the mighty dome, crowned with a golden Lady with the world at her feet, the smiling green golf course, the placid lakes, the noble halls of learning people with priestly priests and tu­multuous boys. But what was signif­cant to the Sisters was significant to them, so they lent their strength to the cause. 
A jolly, fat Sister from the neigh­boring hospital dropped in for the afternoon. After chocolate fudge cake, there is nothing in the world she loves more than a Notre Dame football game. .A.nd her faith, well, it can and has moved mountains, so she is a powerful ally for any worthy cause. I heard her gamefully bar­gaining with the Poor Souls whose feast it was. "One Holy Mass, no two, if they make it." Five decades of the beads, ten, fifteen, and so on, up to forty-five. Now at last I under­stand the secret of her weight; it takes a big body to harbor so big a heart! 
The blue-blooded Sister from Mary­land, whose father has made history, lifted a disapproving eyebrow at the lusty shriek which greeted Ted's an­nouncement of that first unbelievable touchdovvn for Notre Dame; then, remembering the occasion, her gentle face melted into a smile. The white-faced nun, who, like St. Alphonsus Ligouri, had vowed never to waste a moment of time, peeked in at the door, the fatal question on her lips, "What the score?" only to slip quick­ly away to coax the Poor Souls to the right side with an extra Way of the Cross. 
It was the end of the last quarter. One minute, forty-five seconds to play! "It can't be done!" announced the young Sister who really under­stands the game. "It can!" declared the older nun who doesn't know a forward pass from a placement kick, but has tested the power of prayer many a long and difficult year. 
Such gambling! Such bargaining of spiritual wealth! Such chiding! Such threatening of all the sweet saints of heaven! What chance, I ask you, had Ohio State against the com­bined forces of Heaven and Notre Dame! 
At supper, the Sister Superior, with characteristic generosity, gave the Sisters a candy treat to celebrate the victory. Large green and golden gum drops, the kind that swell up and melt in your mouth! But I noted, as the dish was passed down the long refectory table, that the candy, like 
(Continued on Pase 160) 

March. 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 



The Strength of The Supreme Court 
By THOMAS F. KONOP, LLB. Dean, Collese of Law 

Dean Konop Took Up in His Radio Talk of February 24 One of the Most-Discussed Topics of the Day; Readers, 
As Did 

Every government, however crude or primitive it may be, or whatever we may call it, inherently possesses and exercises three governmental powers: First, the rale or law-making power which is called the legislative power; Second, the law-enforcing power, which is called the executive power; and Third, the power to de­clare what the law in a given case is, or the judicial power. 
In the very early governments such as the government of the clan or tribe, these three powers of govern­ment were exercised by one person— the chief. So, in an absolute monar­chy, or a modern dictatorship, these three powers are exercised by one person, the czar or dictator. 
In a constitutional monarchy, or a republic like ours, these three powers are exercised by distinct persons or groups of persons. Under our con­stitution, the Congress legislates, the courts construe and intei-pret the law, and the President executes or en­forces the law. The constitution pre­scribes for each department powers that it may exercise jointly ^\^th an-. other department. Thus checks and balances are pro\'ided, and our rights and liberties better secured. 
Because of the governmental con­ditions that existed at the time of the Constitutional Convention, compro­mises had to be effected in order to biing about agi-eement on a plan of federal government. The delegates jealously guarded and reluctantly yielded sovereign powers to the fed­eral government. The result was a dual government. Thus we in the United States owe allegiance to two governments: the federal government and the state government. 
Governmental Powers Defined We must, of course, resort to the federal and state constitution to find out the powers of each. The federal government is a government of granted powers, while the state government is largely a government of restricted powers. The federal government can exercise only such powers as are granted to it by the constitution of the United States, while the state government can exer­cise all governmental powers except such as are denied to it in the fed­eral and state constitutions. Let us see how these two govern­ments operate: when Congress legis­lates, the inquiry as to its power is: 

 Listeners, Will Find It Interesting and Timely. 
"Is the power to so legislate granted in the constitution of the United States, or necessarily implied, or in­cidental to the powers granted?" When the state legislature legislates, the inquirj' is: "Is the power to legis­late forbidden by the United States constitution or by the state constitu­tion, or by both?" 
And then, too, when the court is passing on the validity of a Congres­sional act, it necessarily must look to the constitution of the United States and determine whether or not the power to pass the act is granted or implied in the constitution; and. when the court is passing on an act of the state legislature, it necessarily, must look to both the state and federal constitution to determine whether or not such legislation is forbidden by either or both of them. 
Although the powers of each gov­ernment are defined in the constitu­tions, many controversies as to the powers of each, have arisen in the last 146 years of our history, some so serious as to involve us in a Civil War. The problems that confront us today are all involved in the century-old controvereies over the separation and delegation of powers, and the respective powers of the federal and state governments. 
Now, what about the power of the courts to declare acts of Congress un­constitutional ? Has the United States supreme court the power to declare an act of Congress unconstitutional? 
Let us look at a brief history of the exercise of such power by the courts. 'Way back in 1610 in Eng­land, from where we get our commoji law. Lord Coke in the Doctor Bon­ham case, declared null and void an Act of Parliament. 
In colonial times, colonial courts declared acts of colonial legislatures null and void. In the celebrated Pax­ton case, Otis contended that colonial courts had power to declare acts of Parliament null and void. 
In Virginia, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island and North Carolina, colonial courts declared null and void acts of the legislature or refused to give them effect as law. 
Marbury v. Madison, decided in 1803, was the first case under our constitution where the Supreme Court of the United States expressly de­clared an Act of Congress unconstitu­tional. 
From 1803 to 1861, a period of 58 years, only two Acts of Congress were held unconstitutional by the Su­preme Court, while during the period of 75 years since 1860, there were 
62. When we consider the thousands of acts passed by Congress each year and find on an average less than one act declared unconstitutional each year, both Congress and the Supreme Court ought to be commended rather than assailed from every platform. 
It is my opinion that the time has passed for us now to question the power of the Supreme Court to de­clare an act of Congress unconsti­tutional. 
Right of Free Speech Just because the Supreme Court has this power and has exercised it, does not necessarily mean that it has always exercised it wisely and with­out error. There is nothing sacro­sanct about the Supreme Court or the justices. The justices are human, and to err is human. They do not know all the law, nor are they the fountains of all justice. Like all citi­zens, they have acquired their views on government from training, experi­ence, and environment. They are not immune from criti­cism any more than Congress and the President are immune. It is not only no crime for citizens to criticize the decisions of the Supreme Court, but, under the right of free speech and free press guaranteed by the consti­tution, citizens have the right to crit­icize that court and its decisions, and to advocate a curtailment of its powers. The decision in Marbury v. Madi­son was not received without protest. Not only were the criticism and con­demnation of Justice Marshall and the Supreme Court quite general, but there were even threats of impeach­ment. Throughout the North, Chief Jus­tice Taney and the Supreme Court were accorded like treatment for the decision in the Dred Scot Case in 1857. -Abraham Lincoln, in sjteeches and in his first inaugural message, criti­cized the assumption of power by the Supreme Court in the Dred Scot case. The far-reaching effect of the Dred Scot decision was, of course, nulli­fied by the Civil War and constitu­tional amendments that followed. 
(Continued on Pasre 164) 



CAMPUS ACTIVITIES 
By John J. Lechner, '37 
COLD WAVE 

In company with the rest of the nation Notre Dame, during the past month watched Winter play the men­ace in a production which well might have been titled, "The Rover Boys in Search of a Coal Pile, or. Fun at Twenty Below." Indiana happens to be our native habitat but man, boy, child and infant we've never before appreciated her apparent pro.vimltj­to Alaska. One result of the wave, however, was extremely beneficial. It was so cold that no one dared to even think of going to town, much less go. Consequently, there was little for the boys to do but study with the result that many of the hitherto shaky brethren came up to their examinations in the most sensa­tional form of their scholastic ca­reers. Lawyer Bob LeMire, with a daring fostered by memories of hard winters spent in his home town, Es­canaba, Michigan, tempted fate by opening his window one evening be­fore retiring. Upon awakening he discovered that the waterpipes in his room had frozen. He turned on the faucets and left for some 30 minutes^ During his absence the pipes unfroze themselves, the bowl overflowed and, on his return, LeMire discovered that if he wished to ice skate during the day it would not be necessary for him to leave his room. 
PULCHRITUDE 

Last month we announced to our palpitating public that the Chicago Tribune had selected the four most beautiful girls in attendance at St. Mary's. This month we have another delightful surprise in store for you. Taking, we suppose, the same stand­ard for their selection as did its metropolitan contemporary, the South Bend Tribune published a Leap Year page of the most eligible bachelors in South Bend. And was Notr e Dame unrepresented? Of course not! We landed eight on the page which is a splendid average when one considers that a few years ago Paramount landed only two on the list of the ten Baby Wampus stars. The College of Arts and Let­ters made a iine showing with Acting Dean T. Bowyer Campbell and As­sistant Dean Paul Fenlon being stamped as definitely "eligible." Al­den E. Davis of the College of Com­merce and Pat Manion of the Law school brought honor to their respect­ive departments, with Bob McAuliflfe, running under the colors of the pre­fect of discipline's office, completing 
Notre Dame's academic five-man team. Other Notre Dame representa­tives were George Sands, '10; Fran­cis Jones, '29, and Norm Hartzer, '29. While we heartily congratulate these men we can't help but heave a sigh for Professor Thomas Madden of the English department. One of the few men ever to give us 95 in any course we would have liked to have seen him chosen. But next year may be a different story. 
VOX POP 

All Notre Dame's writing by un­dergraduates is not being done in the Scholastic and Scrip. On the con­trary the "Letters to the Editor" sec­tion in the local papers has proven an effective sounding board for stu­dents anxious to better their country, and, more often, their adopted city. So far none of the boys has taken advantage of knowledge gained in economics' courses to sign himself "Indignant Intangible Taxpayer" but 
-tomorrow's paper may make this ob-
ser\'ation a verity. Miller Mallett, a 
senior journalism student from Cin­
cinnati, Ohio, fired the opening gun 
in the letter bombardment by a scath­
ing attack on South Bend pedes­
trians, declaring that the careless 
habits of that particular class of per­
sons was a positive menace to inof­
fensive motorists. Since Mallett, be­
cause of the University's regulation 
prohibiting students from having 
cars, is, of necessity, a pedestrian, 
this attitude seen:s rather odd, but 
oddities help fill this page, so—. Joe 
Prendergast, managing editor of the 
Scholastic, in another fervid epistle 
suggested that there be a stop light 
placed on the Niles road before the 
entrance to St. Mary's to be in opera­
tion only on those evenings when St. 
Mary's holds social affairs. If this 
plea fails Prendergast might take a 
course in the art of dodging from 
any of the eligible bachelors prev­iously discussed. 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF 

Special lecturers of the month were Monsignor John A. Ryan, noted economist of Catholic University, Rev. Robert Lord, famed historian and author, and Rev. Edward Duff, head of the Chaplain's division of the United States Navy. . . . Paul Mallon, former Notre Dame man and now author of a widely syndicated political column, is scheduled for an early appearance. . . Many students attended a performance of the Chi­cago Civic Opera company's rendition of "Rigoletto" at the Palace. . . Wil­fred Engleman, who spent two years in the seminary here, sang the title role. . . William H. Fieweger, of Menasha, Wisconsin, delivered the oration in connection with the senior class's presentation of a flag at the annual Washington Day exercises. 
The South Bend Rotary club ten­dered its yearly banquet to the foot­ball squad. . . The debating team of­ficially opened their season against St. Viator's. . . All campus talent is being corralled for the glee club's forthcoming musical comedy, "Tune In" . . . Pofessor Joseph Casasanta is swinging the baton as director. . . The most pleasing sidelight on the basketball team's victory over N. Y. U., from the campus viewpoint, was the brilliant playing of popular John­ny Hopkins, game little senior for­ward from Elizabeth, New Jersey, who played most of the game in place of the ailing Johnny Moir. . . Ac­cording to ace movie columnist, Lou­ella Parsons, Nick Lukats, who toted plenty of leather as a halfback here a few years ago, has been given a long term contract by Paramount. 
The Press club resumed active op­erations after a year's lapse selecting Charles Fitzsimons of Buffalo, New York, as president; Dick Riley, West­port, New York, as vice president; Jim McHugh, Fitchburg, Massachu­setts, as secretary; and Norman Johnson, South Bend, Indiana, as guardian of the exchequer... WSBT­WFAM, South Bend's radio station now broadcasts all home basketball games. . . . Not to be outdone by Notre Dame's broadcasting activities, St. Mary's has introduced a weekly broadcast. . . They will go on a na­tional hookup (CBS) next month, talent to be dra^vn from their choir, glee club, and vocal ensembles. . . In answer to a questionnaire the girls chose the Ladies Home Journal, Good Housekeeping, and Collier's as their favorite magazines. . . A few other favorites; actor, Fred Astaire; act­ress. Norma Shearer; book. Magnifi­cent Obsession by Lloyd C. Douglas. 
Welcome news for campus users of the invention perfected by Alexander Bell: 600 new names are listed in this year's telephone directory. . . . Carl Nedom, Salinas, California, dubbed by the newspapers as the All American Notre Dame rooter, visited the campus. . . He has kept scrap­books on all Notre Dame athletic con­
(Continued on Page 165) 

March, 1936 Th e Notre Dame Alumnus 159 
Words: The Tools of Thought 
By HENRy C. F. STAUNTON, A.M., Professor of English 
And, In Addition to Being Tools, Words Are Also the Medium of Ideas, Says Professor Staunton in This Paper, Which he Delivered from the Campus Over WFAM, South Bend, and WIND, Gary. 
This is a wonderful age: the Machine Age; that is to say, an age of tools. You and I are not greater men than Leonardo da Vinci, than Archimedes, Euclid, Aristotle, Alex­ander, Homer, but we can do what those worthies could never do. We can drive from place to place at a mile a minute; we can soar into the air like birds; we can print a hundred books an hour; we can talk across seas and across continents. All these wonders we can do by the use of tools, and the development of tools is the secret of our success. Take away our modern tools and give us those known to Archimedes, and it is doubtful whether we could even, as did those early men, erect the pyra­mids and forge the Damascus steel. To be up to date in any trade or craft is to have developed to their fullest extent its appropriate tools. 
But meanwhile we are, many of us, blind to the possibilities latent in the greatest and most fundamental tool of all; that tool by which we think, and by which it is possible for us to communicate our thoughts to others. What is at the bottom of successful advertising, that modem science which enables us to sell our modem products? What is the secret which enables some men to move multi­tudes, to stamp their personality on the history of a nation? What enables men to put over such great business combinations and to organize enter­prise? Why does the Gettysburg Speech of the great Lincoln move us more than the floods of oratory poured out every year and every day? Why is Homer supreme? and why does our own Shakespeare, once a strolling actor in an obscure troupe, impress his thoughts on us as perhaps no other writer has done or can do ? 
Is it Shakespeare's ideas which move us, or the words in which he expresses them? When the great dramatist says 
"The quality of mercy is not strained. It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven, It blesses him that gives, and him that takes" 
PROFESSOR STAUNTON-
College Grad—30,000 Words 

—is he saying any mox-e than all of us could say, namelj-, that "mercy is a spontaneous and simple virtue which is as good for the man who practises it as for its recipient"? If Shakespeare had used those words no one would have li.stened to him. When again he says 
"We are such stuff as dreams are made of, and our little life Is rounded with a sleep" 
did we not all know quite as well as he that man is a poor creature at best, and that we all must die? But can we move the hearts of all that hear us to utter such a platitude? No! just as the best artisan is help­less without his tools, so the best thinker is helpless without his words. Words are the tools of thought; and Shakespeare knew how to use tools of precision, the best and the most fruitful tools. 
Words Are the Medium of Ideas 
And the truth lies still deeper than this. Not only can the great thinker not move others to thought without the mastery of words, but without the mastery of words there cannot even be a great thinker at all. It is a fun­damental fact too often overlooked that words are the medium of ideas. We think in words, not in shapeless thoughts, and the mastery of words is in great measure the mastery of thought. As we speak in English; as we write in English; so no less in­evitably we think in English. And if our vocabulary is limited, our knowledge of word-meanings inexact, our ability to group words into prop­ositions clumsy, our discrimination of fine shades of meaning.and expres­sion feeble; then our thoughts will be inevitably childish, mediocre, in­effective. 
It is universally recognized that the college graduate, other things being equal, has a decided advantage in the business or professional sphere. This is due only in small degree to the mere facts which he learned in col­lege, and has largely forgotten. It was his four years' wrestling with words, writing, speaking, and- think­ing, and the formation of a larger vocabulaiy and clearer and more ex­act ideas, that put him on the way to be a master of men. 
It has been estimated that the aver­age child of ten knows four thou­sand words, the high school graduate fifteen thousand, and the college graduate thirty thousand. The primi­tive carpenter finds his plane, saw, and hammer sufficient for a rough job, while the skilled wood-worker knows and uses many tools of which even the master carpenter does not dream. So those who will move and sway men's minds must have the use not only of the simple words of triv­ial speech, but of words powerful to express all shades of meaning, of combinations of words expressing pre­cise and varied relations, and produc­ing exact effects. 
It is not a mere coincidence that our great men'have been almost uni­versally lovers of reading. Washing­ton, Jefferson, Lincoln (of whom John Hay said that he was rarely seen without a book either in his hand or in his pocket), Cleveland, Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson,—begin­ning with our Presidents we could 

(Continued on Pace 166) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Special Bulletin! The 1936-37 Nominees 
Followii\3 are the nominations submitted by the two Nominatins Commit­tees, headed by Rev. John MacNamara, '97, and Dr. Leo D. O'Donneli, "17: 
Honorary President 
Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., A.B., '99; ScD., '12 
President 
Arthur J. Hughes, Ph.B., '11 Fred L. Steers, LL.B., '11 LL.B., '17, Chicago, 111. Chicago, m. 
First 
John T. BaUe, '20 New York City 
Second 
Henry L Dockweiler, '12 Los Angeles, Calif. 
Director 
Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15 Newark, N. J. 

 Vice-President 
Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15 Columbus, Ohio 

 Vice-President 
Wendell T. Phillips, '12 Boston, Mass. 

(For 4-Year Term) 
John J. Heuther, '22 Schenectady, N. Y. 

Time does not permit nmch comment in this issue. There are several interesting coincidences of policy, apparently, which have resulted in both Class and geographical identity of candidates. Father McNamara's letter with his Committee's nomination is probably comprehensive: "Enclosed are the unanimous nominations of our Committee for the Alumni officers. One diffi­culty was in making choice from so many good available alumni. In naming the president we disregarded geographical considerations, feeling that for the president it was important to be within easy distance of Notre Dame. . . I can say the Committee were interested only in choosing men who would work only for Notre Dame and its alumni. We have acted honestly, and to the best of our ability, wisely." 
Next month's ALUMNUS ^vill contain a biographical sketch of each can­didate. Ballots will be mailed approximately May 1. 

POWER BEHIND THE TEAM 
(Continued from Page 1.56) 
the widow's oil, was undiminished. No miracle here! For I smilingly concluded that the others, like myself, had promised a candy fast for the success of our team. 

Why, do you 'ask, do nuns waste their prayers and mortifications on such trivial matters as football games? Surely God cannot be both­ered with such unimportant afPairs as these! Oh, Mr. Skeptic, doesn't , Scripture tell us that He is concerned with even lesser things,—^the spar­row's fall, for example. 
Besides, isn't it to the glory of the Church to prove that her system of Catholic education can produce men strong in body and in mind? To con-/ vince the world that right living and disciplined training is productive of the best manhood in the United States, men carry on bravely until the sixtieth second of the last min­ute is done. 
Yes, and isn't it a grand and pow­erful union, this blessed Communion of Saints, whether united in the on­slaught against the wrong type of movies or in a struggle for the na­tional football championship! 
And, may I hope, in parting,, though very humanly, that some eter­nally fair day on the ever green iields of heaven, a football squad made up of stars, coached by Rockne, will stage for us 'cloistered' football fans a 'fighting Irish' victory such as St. Michael and his cohorts have never seen! 
March, 1936 

Varied Jobs Are Open 
Engineers, Teachers, In­surance Man Wanted 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS: Op­portunity for three mechanical engi­neers, particularly with experience in the diesel engine field. Young 
•men preferred, out year or two. Write Alumni Office giving usual per­sonal and professional data. 
: METALLURGIST: Young metal­lurgist, out of school year or two, special ability in steel and grey iron. Write Alumni Office giving usual data. 
TEACHERS: Man vrith Doctor's degree to teach marketing, business management and finance. Salary $2400 to 52700 for twelve months work beginning next September. 
Man with M.A. to head commer­cial department, knowledge of book­keeping, stenography, typing and law. Salary ?2100 to $2250 for nine months beginning September. Write Alumni Office for further details. 
INSURANCE: Good insurance firm now has guaranteed salary arrange­ment for young men wishing to enter the insurance business. Write Alum­ni Office for further details. 
Ljommencemenl 
ana 
90flu}imi Jveunioti 


JUNE a, 6 AND 1 
• Cjoldeii Oftzniversanj JCeiuzion 
CLJ^SS o r 1086 
• Silver Ojmilversanj jttiuuon 
CLASS OF 1911 
• ^ive-ijear Jietoiion 
CLASS OF 1931 
• u)ix \Platz jieunioti 
CLASSES OF 1892-93-94.95 
CLASSES OF I9II-1Z- 13-14 

March, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The Relation of Religion And Science 
By REV. FRANCIS WENNINGER, C.S.C, Ph.D. Dean, College of Science 
Unproved Theories Offered as Facts and Conjectures Offered As 
Dogmas Provide Most of the So-Called Conflicts Between Religion 
and Science, According to this Radio Address of Father Wenninger 
The present age is an age of intense activity in every branch of science. Almost daily the press announces a new scientific discovery, or reports a new application of an old one. Most of these discoveries have come after years of toil and are the natural re­sult of carefully planned and scien­tifically prosecuted research,—a fact that is not often clear from press re­ports. Too often a scientific discov­erj' is reported as a "stunt," and practically no announcement is en­tirely fi'ee of a sensational aspect. This is regrettable from many points of view. Especially is it a mattei- for concern for him who thinks of its effects on the ordinary man. If a just appreciation of scientific values is ever desirable it is so just now when frequent reports, many of them distorted, are undermining the aver­age man's convictions about certain fundamental verities which he has been taught to regard as fixed and certain. This is especially tme of the concepts of moral and religious val­ues. There are frequent demands, express or tacit, for a readjustment of religious dogma to conform to the most recent findings of science. These demands arise from a realization of the multiple relationships between scientific discover}' and the truths of religion, and from a feeling that these relationships are becoming less remote as man's scientific horizon becomes wider. 
The term science is variously un­derstood as a mental discipline, as a group of data accumulated during the course of time and all related to some specific problem, or as knowl­edge that goes deep enough to reach the causes of phenomena. Aristotle defined science as a sure and erident knowledge obtained from demonstra­tions, whereas St. Thomas makes the essence of science consist in the knowledge of things from their causes. Here the term science is used in the Aristotelian and the Thomistic sense. 
Religion also has been variously understood. A religious system in which there is no God, no dogma, and no moral precept cannot claim to be a religion, for by common consent, the very idea of religion connotes both a belief and a practice that spring from recognition of a relation­ship that binds man to a supernatural 
FATHER WENNINGER 

The Pomts of Contact Are Many 
Being on Whom he consciously de­pends. Here, the Catholic religion is meant because only she deserves consideration from the fact of her universality and because of her claim to a divine authority in doctrine and practice. 
The points of contact between reli­gion and science are as many as there are distinct branches of science. The philosophical scientist considers the existence of God, His nature and per­sonality. His eternity and infinity. He speculates about the moral law^ and about the freedom of the will. The historical scientist studies the unity of the human race, the origin of lan­guages, the history of Christ and of His church. He examines the history of dogma, of heresy and of schism. The science of ethics seeks to estab­lish the origin of right and of duty as these affect the individual and so­ciet}'. Natural science speculates on the origin of man and on the physi­ological unity of, the human race. She attempts to demonstrate the iden­tity, or the difference, between the human soul and a similar vital prin­ciple in animals. 
It is clear, then, that all the sci­ences have relations with religion. It should also be clear that whenever a scientist presents an unproved theory 
as a fact, or a theologian offers a conjecture as a dogma, conflict will necessarily follow. This is what hap­pened in the past and explains most of the so-called conflicts between reli­gion and science. It is, however, not easy to understand why an occasional philosopher of religion should feel that he must compose all apparent opposition. But whether it be the religionist sr the scientist who offers himself as a mediator is a matter of indifference. The honest defender of principle, be he right or wrong, vic­torious or vanquished, still commands respect. Not so the man of easy compromise. The philosophei: of reli­gion who is ready with a compromise whenever a new theory of science ap­pears to be at variance with revealed truth is helping neither science nor religion. He is, in fact, guilty of the very fallacy that he criticizes in the scientist,—the application of a uni­form method. It is not compromise that is wanted or desired but a criti­cal examination and a just evaluation of the successive theories of empirical science, and of their influence on religion. 
The ever-changing scientific thought of the last two centuries is reflected in the concepts of the deity that have been offered for general acceptance. The rationalistic scientists of the nineteenth century made the Un­knowable the object of religion. This was replaced by a psychological con­cept by which God became a projec­tion of the mind. Emergent evolu­tion produced a Time - Space - God. Modem physics makes a God of the principle of concretion. No one can foretell what will be the next concept of God. But it may safely be pre­dicted that no element of the super­natural will remain in the newer con­cept. This prediction is possible be­cause, outside the Catholic church, there is today an almost universal denial of the supernatural. Kevela­tion is not recognized as a source of knowledge. Religion is- merely a friendly attitude towards one's fel­lowman. 
Our contemporaries have discarded all faith except that based on mate­rial science. And, since most of them are unable to verify the conclusions of science, they have transferred, to an academy of science, perhaps, that moral authority which the canons of 
(Continued on Page 165) 

BY DIREaOR OF JOSEPH S.PETRITZ,-32 ATHLETIC PUBLICITY 
ATHLETICS 
It has taken a long time for the realization to sink in—and any one of the four remaining games may change this estimate of the Noti-e Dame basketball team of 1935-36— but as this resume of the season thus 
PAUL NOWAK 
Sltar Sophomore Center 

far is jotted dow-n, Notre Dame ranks as the top team in the countiy and the top team in Notre Dame liistory. 
That a pretty big keyboard full from the old Underwood, but 18 vic­tories, a tie, and only one defeat con­stitute a record that speaks for itself any time the Underwood Noiseless wants to remain noiseless. 
The recent 43 to 27 victorj- over Pittsburgh removed all question of doubt that, up to that game, Noti-e Dame was supreme in the country. It gave the Irish a clean sweep against such Eastern opponents as N.Y.U., previously undefeated at home or in Madison Square Garden; SjTacuse, undefeated in 35 starts over nearly a four-year period on its home floor and preriously defeated but once this season; Pennsylvania, one of the strongest teams in the Eastern association; and Pittsburgh, annually one of the best teams in the nation. The Irish have defeated Pitt twice, first by a 43 to 35 score at Pitt just as the former were finding themselves. Then, after Pitt had won six out of its last seven starts against teams like Duquesne and Temple, Notre Dame rose up and smacked the Panther down with considerable ease. 
The masterpiece of the season, a 41 to 20 victory over Kentucky, Southeastern conference champions for four years, established Notre Dame supremacy over Dixie circuit teams. The Irish led 38 to 7 when the reseifes took over. As far as Middle Western opposition goes, Notre Dame has the best record of any 
JOHNNY Mom 
The Scotch Scourge 
team in the section. No other team of major standing has failed to lose at least two games. Numerous inter-sectional games have established the superioritj' of the Middle Western teams over those from the far West and the Southwest. 

The second \'ictorj' over Pitt gave Notre Dame a record of 11 straight ^•ictories and 13 sti-aight home vic­tories, not to mention its seventh lictorj' in ten starts against the Pan­thers, after a two-year drought dui-­ing which Pitt won four straight. 
Fortunately, John Moir, Scotch-born sophomore forward, picked the night of the Pitt game, Washington's Birthday, to set t^vo Notre Dame all-time scoring records. By scoring 19 points he beat Ed (Moose) Ki-ause's all-time Notre Dame season record of 212 points, with his own 213. He went on from there to score six more points to break Krause's single game record of 22 points. This left Moir with a season total of 219 points, an average of more than 12 points a game for the 18 contests in which he has seen action, and an individual game record of 25 points to shoot at the next tivo seasons. 
While Moir's shooting has been a wonder to opposing teams, they are rather inclined to talk more about the Irish defense. Kentucky, Southeast-em conference champions; N.Y.U. and Pitt felt the pressure of this de­fense which, in the words of Dr. H. 

EAY MEYER 
Onlu a Soph, Too 

C. Carlson, Pitt coach, "could not be any more aggressive without drawing fouls." A big share of credit for the Notre Dame season should go to George Ireland, trusty senior guard, and to Co-Capt. Johnny Ford, alert, scrappy forward. Paul Nowak, soph­omore center, rates orchids for his ability to control the tip-off, feed the ball to Moir, and to handle rebounds off both backboards. He has scored 122 points. 
The fine spread of material we mentioned in our opening piece on basketball three months ago has been a big factor in Notre Dame's success. Moir entered the N.Y.U. game before a sell-out crowd of 18,000 fans with a lame back. He was just human enough to get a bad case of buck fever, by his own admission, and to draw three fouls right off the bat. It appeared wise to retire him at an early stage of the game, and Johnny Hopkins, diminutive senior forward, took his place. Hoppie scored ten points, more than any of his mates, while getting excellent support in scoring from Nowak, Ford, and Ire­land. When Nowak drew his third foul early in the second Pitt game, Co-Capt. Marty Peters replaced him, and the Irish machine clicked right along. Tommy Wukovits and Tommy Jordan can step into the guard posi­tions without weakening the all-around team strength. Eay Meyer, although hampered by injuries for more than a month, makes a fine re­placement for Co-Capt. Ford at for­ward. 
March, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The record to date follows: 
Notre Dame. 62: Albion, 26. Notre Dame. 45 ; St. Mary's 22. Notre Dame. 65; Kalamazoo. IT. Notre Dame. 71: St. Joseph, 22. Notre Dame. 58; James Miliken. 30. Notre Dame. 35; WashinKton University. 27. Notre Dame. 40 ; Northwestern. 29. Notre Dame. 40 ; Purdue. 54. Notre Dame, 20: Northw.. 20. (no overtime) Notre Dame. 29; Minnesota. 27. Notre Dame. 43: Plttsburch. 35. Notre Dame. 37 ; Marquette. 22. Notre Dame, 37: Pennsylvania. 27. Notre Dame. -16; Syracuse. 43. Notre D.ame. 35: Butler, 27, Notre D.ime. 53; St. Benedict's. 27. Notre Dame. 33: Illinois, 23. Notre Dame, 41; Kentucky, 20. Notre Dame. 38; N. Y. U.. 27. Notre Dame. J:!; Pittsburjih. 27. Notre Dame. 37; Atlnnesotn. 15. 
The rest of the schedule follows: Feb. 29—Butler at Indianapolis. Mar. 3—Ohio State at Notre Dame. Mar. 7—Marquette at Milwaukee. Mar. 10—Detroit at Detroit. 
Of these remaining teams, Notre Dame has defeated two of them, But­ler and Marquette. Butler is usually much harder to defeat on its own floor, however, and this game is far from being a sure thing for the Irish. Ohio State showed unexpected power by dropping Indiana from the Big Ten lead a short while ago. Mar­quette has defeated Notre Dame sev­eral times at Milwaukee after losing at Notre Dame. Detroit, defeated but twice this season, has by far the best team in its history, one which 
JOB MCGRATH 
He Won From Marquette 

won ten straight games before suf­fering a recent defeat by the strong DePaul, Chicago, quintet. 
It is to the credit of Elmer Lay-den, Notre Dame athletic director, as much as any other one person that a revival of the old-time Notre Dame spirit has been increasingly in evi­dence this past year. Perhaps Andy Pilney should get an assist after his work in the Ohio State game, but at any rate Notre Dame teams are again teams that have to be licked before they will admit they are licked. 
After the 54 to 40 Purdue victory and the 20-20 mistake Avith North­western, the basketball team came from behind to start its current vic­tory string against Minnesota, 29 to 
27. It came from behind twice to defeat Pitt, 43 to 35, in the second game of the chain. It has not had to come from behind to any great extent since then, but has never fallen apart in the face of early spurts or strong rallies by opposing teams. 
THE FENCING DE LANDEROS 

Carlos, so7i; and Pedro, father. 
TRACX 
The track team and the fencing team have manifested this same spirit in their competition to date. 
Noti'e Dame had an easy time of it against Chicago, winning 63 to 41. When Maixiuette came along the next week, a check-up of the records showed that Notre Dame had won last year, 48 to 47, by winning the relay, that more than half of Notre Dame's points had been lost by grad­uation while Marquette had lost but seven. The Irish went along, piled up a comfortable lead—or so it ap­peared—when along came the events in which the Hilltoppers were re­puted to be particularly strong. Capt. Calvin Beckett, who set a meet record of 1:57.1 in the half mile last year, was supposed to be far superior to anj'thing Notre Dame could put forth in the 880. Did you ever hear of Joe McGrath of the Notre Dame track team, though? Pew on the cam­pus knew about him or expected much from him. But he ran one of the most courageous and brainiest races ever seen in the Notre Dame gym to beat Beckett in 1:58, Mc­Grath's best time to date. The Irish shot putters shut out Glenn Elliott of Marquette in this event, following the lead of Don Elser who set a new meet and gym record of 48 feet 894 inches, and John Michuta, who took second with a toss of nearly 46 feet. Bob Bernard and Paul Rubly took second 
and third in the 440 to shut out Jimmy Jessell of Marquette, a na­tional figure at this distance. Boots McCarthy refused to be intimidated by the reputation of Alex LeGrand of Marquette and won the pole vault. Elser's and McGrath's marks were the only really outstanding perform­ances of the day as judged by the record books, but many of the other participants won where they hadn't been doped to win. 
The meet came down to the mile relay, and Bob Bernard's great finish, coupled with fine running by his mates, and particularly, Jim Parsons on the third leg, gave the Irish a vic­tory of five yards and a winning score of 48 1/3 to 41 2/3. 
Characteristic of this revival of spirit was a remark by Michuta to your raconteur as the half milers lined up. "Hope we get second out of this—^we need a second and, if possible, a third in this race to win the meet," we ofl^ered. 
"Maybe we'll win it," Michuta opined. 
"If we get a second and third, we can still win the meet by winning the relay, but," we insisted, "we can't beat Beckett." 
"Why not?" was Michuta's re-joiner. 
That remark, coming from the gen­tleman who had just made his best throw of the year to shut out Elliott in the shot put, should have been enough to open our eyes, but we 
PAUL EUBLY 
Sterling Quarter Miler 

didn't believe it until we saw it, and we take this opportunity to offer our profuse and humble apologies to Messrs. Michuta and McGrath. 
The rest of the indoor track sched­ule follows: Feb. 28—Northwestern at Notre Dame. Feb. 29—St. Louis relays at St. Louis. March 7—Illinois at Notre Dame. March 13-14 — Central Intercollegiate confer­
ence meet at Notre Dame. March 21—Butler and Armour relays. 
FENCING 
Something of the same spirit has (Continued on Paire 165) 
SUPREME COURT 
(Continued from Page 157) 
Even courts criticize and reverse their own decisions and thus admit their errors on previous occasions; and the Supreme Court of the United States has admitted error on a num­ber of occasions. 
Courts frequently criticize not only their own previous decisions, but crit­icize decisions of courts of other jur­isdictions. Then, too, justices in dis­senting opinions criticize the decision of the majority. 
Need we be sui-prised, then, that since the recent decisions there has been much criticism of the Supreme Court, and that measures are being advocated to curtail its power of de­ciding acts of Congress unconstitu­tional? 
Within the past two years, trial as well as appellate coui-ts have been passing upon the constitutionalitj- of laws passed by Congress. Within a year, the United States Supreme Court has declared unconstitutional, two important laws passed by Con­gress—the NRA and the AAA. These laws were enacted during a serious economic and industrial depression. Industry and agriculture lay prostrate because of over-production and un­equal distribution. Both laws were enacted with general approval of in­dustry and agriculture, and both were enacted in Congress by overwhelming majorities and without the usual par­tisan division. 
These decisions had a far-reaching effect on lai-ge masses of our popula­tion, and naturally have brought about more discussion, pro and con, than all the decisions of that tribunal in the last half a centurj-. We can all agree that one good thing has re­sulted from these two decisions, and that is, that the attention of the American people has been directed to the need and importance of a bet­ter study of their government. 
Most of the recent decisions of our Supreme Court declaring acts of Con­gress unconstitutional, involved the power of Congress to regulate com­merce and the taxing power, and many of them were by a 5 to 4 di­vided court. The application of strict rules of construction by a bare ma­jority was largely responsible for the results. 
Instead of resoMng doubt in favor of the powers, the majoritj' of the court, by strict construction and la­borious reasoning, denied the exer­cise of the powers. 

The constitution was not written for a decade or a centurj'. As con­strued by the Supreme Court now, the people look upon the constitu­tion as a bar to help them in times of distress and as a barrier to prog­ress and social justice. Reasonably 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
and liberally construed the constitu­tion will adapt itself to our progress. It will be viewed by the people as the charter of a living government. They will respect it; they will love it; they will defend it with their lives if need be, against the threatening enemies, Communism and Dictatorship. 
Congress Not Tyrannical 
Some argue against curtailing the power of the Supreme Court to de­clare acts of Congress unconstitu­tional. They say, that it protects us in the exercise of our fundamental rights, that it is necessary to protect the minority from legislation by a tyrannical majoritj-. Our Congress is not a tyrannical body. It has never passed any tjTannical legislation. Consisting of 435 members in the House elected everj' tvvo years, and 96 senators every six years, it is the best representative and the most re­sponsive legislative body in the world. Speaking about tyrannical majorities —^what about a majority in a branch of our government consisting of nine memheis who hold their ofUce for life? What about 5 to 4 decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States? What about the power of one justice in a 5 to 4 decision, to thwart the will of the people as expressed through their representatives? May there not be tyranny and despotism in that? Let me mention a few re­cent close decisions of our Supreme Court where the vote of one or two justices has frustrated or delayed progress in social justice. 
The Pollock case (1895) delayed for 20 years the levying of a federal income tax; the Lockner case (1905) has closed the door to state legisla­tion limiting hours of labor; Hammer 
V. Dagenhart (1918) and Bailey v. Drexel Furniture Co. (1922), have barred all legislative efforts for a fed­eral child labor law; Eisner v. Ma-comber (1920) has prevented levj'­ing income taxes on stock dividends; Adkins v. Childrens Hospital (1923) has closed the door to minimum wage legislation; and the recent AAA de­cision has delayed relief to agricul­ture, the basic industry of our people. 
A more liberal construction of our constitution would not have stayed pi'ogress in social justice, and would have promoted the general welfare of our people. 
There are some who liken the Su­
preme Court to an umpire in a game 
and then accuse the people of un­
sportsmanlike conduct, and condemn 
them for abusing the umpire. The 
analogy is much overdrawn and quite "faulty. The government of the United States is not a game or a sport set up to entertain and amuse people of the United States. The Supreme Court is not an arbiter appointed by outsiders to settle disputes in a game under outside management. 
March. 1936 

The Supreme Court is one of the branches of the American people's government; and that government is a democracy, a government of, by, and for the people. The three branches of government are the peo­ple's departments to administer re­spectively the three powers in man­ner provided for by the constitution. Whenever the American people will consent to permit any one of its de­partments to place itself above the people and thwart the people's will, then we cease to be a democracy. 
Senator Minton's Statement 

Now to what extent is it appropri­ate to criticize the Supreme Court? Senator Minton of Indiana, in a speech in the Senate on Januarj- 16, correctly expressed the limitations: He said: 
"I accept the decision as the law to be obeyed, so long as it is the law, and I join the ranks of those who believe it their duty to release the country from the paralyzing effect of that opin­ion. We accept it as the law of that case, but we will not be bound by any implication con­tained therein, that this govern­ment of the United States is powerless to aid its people in distress." 

It is the duty of citizens as well as legislators, to obey the decisions of our courts. However erroneous a decision may be; however we may disagree with it, until reversed or changed by constitutional means, it is the law, and we must respect and obey it. This is the only way to in­sure peace and concord among our people; the only way to perpetuate our constitution for future gen­erations. 
Paul Mallon On Campus 

Paul Mallon, former Notre Dame student and author of the sjmdicated column, "News Behind the News," will be the feature speaker at the Press club banquet to be held in the faculty dining loom on the cam­pus on Friday, March 13. 
Mr. Mallon was a student at Notre Dame in 1922. After leaving school, he went to New York, where he worked for several different dailies. Later he began to write for the United Press, and he was later sent to Washington. He was soon made head of the U.P. Washington bureau. While in this position he gained in­formation and contacts which led him to begin his own column. Today he is considered as one of the nation's foremost political writers. 
The Press club, which is making possible the appearance of Mr. Mal­lon, was reorganized this year under the guidance of Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism. 
March, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
RELIGION AND SCIENCE 
(Continued from Pase 161) 

religion formerly commanded. For such men the whole Christian dispen­sation is little more than experimen­tal material for empirical science. The conversion of a sinner becomes as natural as the metamorphosis of a butterfly or the sprouting of a seed. The future life is merely an aspect of the larger biological problem of life in general. -A. person's Christi­anity is determined by a physiologi­cal experiment. To a mind like Drummond's the supernatural is na­tural, biology and religion are iden­tical. Mystery has long since disap­peared because it was run to earth and labeled and give no further trouble. Not all express themselves as crudely as the professor who in­formed his class that for him, only that existed and counted that could be put under his microscope or that would fit into his test tube. Nor are sentences like the following from John Burroughs very common; "when the doctrine of the Trinity can be confirmed by the same test (experi­ence), then it will be just as easy to believe it true as it is that water flows or is solid according to the tem­perature." But the same thought occurs again and again in the works of those w^ho think that they must hold fast to that alone which is veri­fiable and who express this convic­tion in clever rhetoric. 
The methods of religion differ from those of science, but they are not, therefore, less scientific. Obser­vation and experiment are not the only sources of knowledge, and not only that may be called scientific which relates to physical phenomena and their relations. Man can and does acquire knowledge from experi­ence. He does it by way of judg­ments that he forms from his contact with the sensible world about him. Nor has he any doubts about the va­lidity of these judgments. They are first principles, and all of them rest upon a primary first principle, the principle of identity. This is the foundation of all intellectual knowl­edge. Certitude is possible only if knowledge can be resolved back to first principles. Some biologists deny the validity of at least one of these first principles, that of causality. But this denial is merely an assertion that "that which has not in itself the rea­son for its being has within itself the reason for its being." (Sheen; Religion Without God, pp. 205-6 
The student of physical science ob­serves certain phenomena. After re­peatedly observing the same phenom­ena, he compares them with others which seem to be related, and ti'ies to discover necessary implications. Ho then formulates a hypothesis which will bpst account for these phenom­ena. This hypothesis is now tested. If the hypothesis or its necessary cor­ollaries fail to meet exacting experi­mental standards they are regarded as speculations, and final acceptance is withheld till satisfactory evidence of their validity is at hand. The student of spiritual phenomena uses the same methods. But his criteria of reference, his standards of meas­urements are different. The physicist, the chemist, or the biologist uses grams, meters and seconds as stand­ards; the theologian uses revelation, the test of harmony with the divine making for order, or of disharmony resulting in spiritual chaos. The tests have equal validity each in its own realm. 
No responsible theologian ever claimed that the Bible is a text book of science, and no scientist was ever required to take his science from that source. "It might have pleased the Almighty to have superseded physical inquiry by revealing the truths which are its object, but He has not done so," says Cardinal Newman. The Sacred Books make only incidental reference to natural phenomena while teaching religious truth. They speak the language of their times. "Many things in Sacred Scripture are ex­pressed according to the opinion of the times in which they were written and not according to truth." (St. Jerome, XXVIII, 10) The praise given by certain writers to the scien­tific knowledge of Moses because of his supposed anticipation in Genesis of modem scientific discoveries must be totally discounted. As regards profane knowledge Moses had no rev­elation that placed him above his con­temporaries. Neither is there any proof for the assumption that he raised himself above their level by his own efforts. But, withal, in Holy Scripture there is room for all future science. It has made no mistakes, and it will make none. Much there is that we see only darkly, and much 
more that we do not see at all. Many problems of science are heavy with mystery. It is the conviction of the time scientist that no matter how many doors open to him upon new mysteries, the final portal will open unto the veiy house of God. 
CAMPUS AQIVITIES 
(Continued from Page 158) 

tests and athletes for the past 20 years. . . While in South Bend he purchased 200 pictures pertaining to Notre Dame to add to his collection. 
The fencing team, organized last year, won its fourth straight victory of the year over the University of Chicago. . . . They have been unde­feated since their organizatiion. . . . 
J. E. A., Jackson, Michigan: Thank you for your suggestion. . . Profes­sor Emil Jacques, head of the Art De­partment, won the Peter C, Eeilly prize for the best work by a Catholic school art teacher at the Hoosier Art Salon's exhibition in Chicago. . . St. Mary's Sister M. Edna, C.S.C, re­ceived an honorable mention in this class. 
Father O'Hara has been appointed to an advisory committee which will aid in preparing the Indiana section of the American Guide, a WPA pro­ject. . . . The new semester brought an addition to the faculty in the per­son of Christopher J. Fegan, former­ly of Catholic University, who win teach in the Economics Department. 
Thirty-four student completed their requisites for degrees with the end­ing of the first semester. . . Included in this group were four gridiron greats: tackles, Dick Pfefferle, Ap­pleton, Wisconsin; Harry Becker, Louisville, Kentucky; an d centers Fred Solari, Pembroke, Massachu­setts; Jack (All American, 1934) Robinson, Huntington, Long Island... Don't forget Universal Notre Dame night, April 20. 
ATHLETICS 
(Continued from Page 163) 

guided the Notre Dame fencing team through four hard matches, under the direction of Coach Pedro de Landero, and to a record of 13 straight vic­tories over a three year period. 
And you have Co-Capt. Kevin O'Neil Patrick Kehoe to thank for most of this success, with his 17 vic­tories against,? defeats to date. After taking Purdue and Michigan State by 11 to 6 scores, the Irish came up against Ohio State and Chicago on consecutive days. Trailing 5 to 2 against the Buckeyes, the Irish won two matches and then lost one and it was 6 to 4. Largely on Kehoe's efforts in the sabre, the score was tied at 6-6, 7-7, and 8-8, when Jack. Mc­.A.uliffe came up for the final epee bout of the evening It was a repe­tition of the Ohio State football game last Fall. McAuliffe, however, did not let his opponent get any touches at all, hut took two straight to win his bout and the match, 9 to 8. 
Next morning, Chicago defeated Ohio State, 11 to 6. That afternoon Notre Dame faced Chicago the under­dog by at least two matches. Again Notre Dame trailed at the start, and again the Fighting Irish—^Kehoe, Mc­Auliffe, Carlos and Telmo de Lan­dero, and Bob Seco—came through to win again, 9 to 8. The rest of the schedule looks difficult enough, but the tougher it looks, the better we'll like it from now on. For Nojre Dame lives again the Kodcne slogan: "When the going gets tough, get tougher." 
The fencers must still face: 
Feb. 29—Purdue at Notre Dame. Mar. 6—Northwestern at Notre Dame. Mar. 14^Cincinnati at Notre Dame. Mar. 21—Michigan State at Notre Dame. Mar. 2S—Washington U. at St. Louis. 
WORDS: THE TOOLS OF THOUGHT 
(Continued from Page 159) 
name over our leaders in every politi­cal, economic, and industrial field. Always we will find a man-who-reads. For it is by the reading of the great­est and fullest thoughts of the world's great minds that we unconsciously make our own not the mere ideas of great thinkers, but the words,—the tools—^which they used to form their ideas, and which we recombine to foi-m ours also. Well did the gieat English critic, Matthew Arnold, de­fine "culture" as the "study of the best which has been thought and said in the world." .A.nd to "culture" he might well have added: "efficiency." 
Of course it is not merely the gi-oss number of words which a man knows, but his exact knowledge of their meaning and use, that equips the suc­cessful thinker, speaker, or' WTiter. Everj'one has met the merely fluent man,—usually fluent not only in speech but in half-set thoughts. John Ruskin said in his "Seven Lamps of Architecture" that in the ideal state no one should be allowed to trifle with tools. The -nide growth of read­ing in our own day, for the most part not of great classics nor the expres­sion of great minds, but of news­paper criticism, cheap magazines, in­ferior novels, travel books written from the train, histories of prehis­toric man and popular but unscien­tific science,—all this kind of read­ing is. the junk-yard of mental ma­chinery, where we may indeed pick up tools but never the tools of value. To say that one gains mental power by much reading is as true and as un­true as to say that the athlete gains physical fitness by much eating. It is exercise, which utilizes what you eat—or what you read—which is needed to build up the healthy body or the healthy mind. 
The Best Survives 
For this reason it is of the highest importance that the detective storj­should be kept for the hour before bedtime. By far the most of our reading should be on a level which will slightly tax our minds,—force us to think, to analyze and recom­bine. I do not mean that mere puz­zlement is prophylactic. Many books are hard to understand because they are so poorly wi-itten, not because they contain certain thoughts to which we must rise. It is for this reason that the English professor so often recommends the English clas­sics: our best sellers will soon be as the snows of yesterday; but no book ever survived fifty or more years without containing something of per­ennial value for men's minds. Time is the great solvent of Literature; only upon the Gold time has no pow­er, and the poems of Chaucer, Milton, and Wordsworth; the plays of Shake­speare and Sheridan; the prose of Bacon, Burke, Carlyle, Newman, and Ruskin appeal today as when they were written: to the intelligent and the sensitive mind. 
Writing Is Improving 
Not that all our reading should be done in books of great and estab­lished reputation. We are learning today,—^learning by the necessities of moder n eflicient advertising and propaganda, by the necessitj'^ of being clear and explicit in our exposition of modern applied and speculative science, by the wide attention being given today to English literature and the -n-riting of good English, in fact, by our belated appreciation of how large a part command of language plays in the command of thought,— learning to -vrnte English on a far higher average level than it has been wTitten in any age before. For everj' one who could write well fifty years ago there are now a score. For we are beginning to appreciate the power of the pen. Blost of my listeners have read the article by J. C. Furnas, entitled "Sudden Death," which has appeared in several magazines since August, then in book form, and of which the printed circulation has al­ready exceeded thirty-five million. The effectiveness of this article was not due to the gruesome facts set forth,—facts which could be gleaned from any file of newspapers. Its eff'ectiveness was due to the writer's command of English, just as the effectiveness of Shakespeare is due to that gi-eat writer's command of English. What would such a com­mand mean in your business, in ymir profession, in your powei- of thought, and in your appreciation of life? 
You can yet gain such a command if you seek it with the same whole­heartedness with which you attack your sales problems. You have doubt­less laid some foundation for it in your school or college. It is possible that a strong indictment might be brought against the efficiency of many college professors of English, against their lack of vision, their lack of in­sight into the possibilities of their own work. No such indictment can be brought against the importance of the field of study which they repre­sent. "Professor of Mental Efficien­cy,"—that should be the proper desig­nation of the wide-awake professor of English; and if yon did not have such a professor, in this field more than in any other you can realize for your­self the Vision if you will. 

QUESTION: Mr. Staunton, do you think the reading of poetry is of any practical value? 
.A.NSWER: Decidedly,—as an exer­cise in the power and in the possibili­ties of words. A good poem requires mental exercise thoroughly to under­stand it; and in a good poem there is always something worth understand­ing. But since good poetry is never "dated," but written for all time, I would not recommend the reading of modern poems. Read first through the great English poets; by the time you have done this you will be ready for those of our now modern poems as have survived. The reading of poor poetry is even more debilitating than the reading of poor prose. 
QUESTION: Should a man read only what interests him? 
ANS^VEE: Yes, because in order to profit one must read with attention. When there is no interest thei-e can be no attention. But lose no oppor­tunity to widen your interests. Re­member the saying of the shrewd old Roman, Terence: "I am a man, and therefore nothing which concerns men is uninteresting to me." And remem­ber that "interest" does not mean mere amusement. You are interested in your business; and this is an im­poi-tant part of your business. 
QUESTION": HOW may a man know when a book is educative and worth reading? 
ANSWER: Do not trust to book re­^dews: they are advertising matter. Sample many books; and never think that you must read a book through because you have begun. If you find a book clear, true, and constructive; above all if it forces you to think and gives you ideas to add to those you already have, you cannot go far wrong. If still in doubt, fall back upon the older books on which the whole world—^no mean critic—^has al­ready judged. 
QUESTION: HOW about magazines? 

ANSWER: In our day anything of lasting worth is reprinted later in book form. For amusement a few good magazines are useful: for the more serious purpose which we have considered in our talk, stick to books, and those books only for which good publishers have made themselves re­sponsible. 
Monsignor Ryan Spealcs 
Outlines Program of Re­
forms, Social and Economic 

(Reprinted from .the South Bend Tribune of January 2S, 19S6.) 
Capitalism has been slowly com­mitting suicide in the last 50 years according to the Very Eev. John A. Ryan, of Catholic University, Wash­ington, who lectured on "Organized Social Justice" Monday night in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineer­ing on the campus of the University of Notre Dame. 
Father Ryan, author of "The Liv­ing Wage" and other economic texts and appointed by the federal govern­ment to many labor arbitration boards, outlined a program of social and economic reforms which he con­sidered necessary for the economic security of the great mass of the people. Saying that the present fed­eral administration was the only one with any desire to fulfill that pro­gram. Father Ryan said that he per­sonally did not expect to see that present administration returned to power. 
Father Ryan denounced Alfred E. Smith, democratic nominee for presi­dent in 1928, for repudiating the program of President Roosevelt. Quoting a statement of Smith's made in 1928 to the effect that socialism was simply a scare-word used by ultra-conservative groups to frighten the average man away from progress in economics. Father Ryan compared that statement with Smith's out­burst of Saturday night and added: "Alas, Poor Yorick." 
A point in the reform program discussed by Father Ryan was the possibility of a constitutional amend­ment giving to congress the right to regulate commerce (interstate), agri­culture, finance and industry. This amendment is necessary. Father Ryan feels, since the United States supreme court declared the NRA and 
A.A.A unconstitutional. Failing in the passage of a con­stitutional amendment, Father Ryan said there is a measure which will come up for congress' consideration this session which would simply pass a law giving congress the power to regulate those things which have to do with commerce, the due process clause, or the general welfare clause. The main cause of the depression. Father Ryan said, was the maldis­tribution of wealth and income. In 1929, Father Ryan said, one per cent of the people received as much in­come as 40 per cent did at the lowest end of the social scale. 
Reduction of the interest rate to 2 per cent is another point in the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
program advocated by Father Ryan. 
"In order to meet this program the present administration must be re­elected— all other candidates and their platforms are intellectually bankrupt," Father Ryan emphasized. 
Asked his opinion of Eev. Charles 

E. Coughlin, the radio reformer, and especially his opinion of Coughlin's monetary theories. Father Ryan an­swered: "I wish I thought I under­stood those theories. I think they're all wrong. I think his denunciation of the federal reser\'e board as a privately controlled concern is all wrong. Seven out of 12 members of the board are appointed by the president." 
Father Ryan was introduced by Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C, pro­fessor of economics and politics at the University of Notre Dame. 
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT NEEDED 
(Continuctl from Pasc loa) 

known, who doubts it? To provide decent livelihood for all, all the time, is the primaiT end of the economic order whatever be its form, capital­ism, fascism, communism, or some better economic order. If the multi­tude are to live they must live by the wages of their labor, so the right to decent livelihood becomes the right to a living wage. Of course the wage that matters, the wage on which peo­ple live, is not the weekly, or the hourly, but the yearly wage. 
Consider a few facts. It is well known that some of our largest and most prosperous industries, employ­ing hundreds of thousands of workers and valued at billions of dollars, pay an average annual wage altogether less than sufficient to support a fam­ily. Ever}' investigation that has been made in the United States has found that a large proportion of women wage earners, consei-vatively more than half, receive a wage in­sufficient to supply the necessaries of life. Prior to the N.R.A., in some establishments unlimited competition forced wages down as low as three or four cents an hour and drove work­ing hours as high as ninety to one hundi'ed per week. Millions of American citizens year after year, in booms and slumps alike, work for a starvation wage. 
In terms of liberty, what do these facts mean? Libert}- is the right and the opportunity to exercise funda­mental rights. Governments exist to protect fundamental rights. To pro­tect the right to decent livelihood is to create the conditions in which that right can be exercised. The authori­ties on labor problems are in sub­stantial agreement that mandator}­legal minimum wage laws are an in­dispensable condition for the exercise of the right to a living from their 
work for millions of our wage earn­ers, both men and women. . Since the decision of the Supreme Court invalidating the legal minimum wage laws of the'District of Colum­bit and the N.I.R.A., no doubt exists that neither the national Congress nor the legislatures of the States possess the constitutional power to enact a mandatory legal minimum wage law^ -Alone among the states of the world, the -American constitutional system is the only one that has not the legal legal authority to perform that pri­mary function of government, the protection of the fundamental right to decent livelihood. The obvious conclusion is that the Constitution of the Constitution of the United States ought to be amended immediately in order to give to the national Con­gress and to the legislatures of the States the right to protect funda­mental economic liberty by outlawing the starvation wage. Such an amend­ment would merely remove from the living Constitution some dead incrus­tations of judicial interpretation which at present deprive our State legislatures and our national Con­gress of the legal power to perform a primary function for which they ex­ist. Not to pass this amendment is to permit the strong to attack and destroy a fundamental right of the weak. This should be done as a mat­ter of elementary justice, even if not one Bolshevik was abroad in the land. But many Bolsheviks are abroad and their number is growing. And the inactivity of our citizens in the de­fense of the liberty in which America was conceived is the opporttiniti/ of the Bolshevik. It is my fervent prayer that before it is too late Amer­ica may arise from sleep and become worthy of her Christian and Ameri­acn liberty. Just that is the achieve­ment of her world mission. 
SEASON'S FINALE 

Notre Dame closed its 1935 foot­ball season on Monday evening, Feb­ruary 4, when Coach Elmer Layden, his assistant coaches and members of last Pall's squad, both varsity and freshman, were guests of the Athle­tic -Association at its annual banquet in the University Dining Halls. 
Speakers included the entire per­sonnel of the University coaching staif, Bernard J. VoU, president of the Alumni Association, Francis Jones, president of the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley. Rev. Thomas A. lahey, a member of the faculty board in control of athletics. Dr. J. E. McMeel, University phjrei­cian, Eugene (Scrapiron) Young, trainer, Jim Costin, sports editor of the South Bend News-Times and Bob Overraker, assistant sports editor of the South Bend Tribune. " All the Seniors on last Fall's squad also res­ponded briefly, as well as the senior student managers. 
168 The Notre Dame Alumnus March. 1936 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
OFFICERS 
Honorary President President : First Vice-President 

 OF THE ALUMNI 
1935-1936 

 Albert F. Zahm, '83  Director  
 Bernard J. Voll, '17  Director 
 Albert J. Galen, '96  Director 

Second Vice-President  George N. Shuster, '15  Director 
Secretary-Treasurer  James E. Armstrong, '25  Director 
Assistant Secretary  William E. Dooley, '26  Director 
GOVERNORS  

 ASSOCIATION 
Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94  Fred L. Steers, '11  James E. Deery, '10  Don P. O'Keefe, '03  (ex-oflicio) Timothy P. Galvin, '16  (one-year) Thomas G. Proctor, '35 
District 1—John W. Schindtcr, '09, SUshawaka, Ind. 
District 2—James A. Ronan. *26. Chicago, HI. 

District 3—^Henry F. Bamhart, '23. Lima, Ohio District 4—Henry Laucrman, *23, Menominee, Mich. District 5—John T. Higgins, '23, Detroit, Mich. District 6—Augtist G. Desch, '23, Philadelphia, Pa. District 7—Edward A. Fallon, '26, New York City District 8—Gerard Ashe, '22. Rochester, N. Y. District 9—John Rohinson, '28, Waterbury, Conn. District 10—Frank A. Reese, '25, Raleish, North Carolina District 12—Hugh M. Magevney, '25. Memphis, Tenn. District 13—Lawrence Hennessey, '27. Vicksburg, 3Iiss. District 14—William Grady, '17, Dallas, Texas District 15—John 31. Dugan, *27, Kansas City, Mo. District 16—Sherwood Dixon, '20, Dixon, III. District 17—George A. McGee, '01. Minot, No. Dakota District IS—Robert Fox, '01, Denver, Colo. District 13—Thomas H. Heam, '15, Los Angeles. Calif. District 20—E. P. Carville, '09, Reno. Nevada District 21—Walter M. Daly, '04, Portland, Ore. 
District 11—Matthew O'Brien, '31, Tampa, Fla. 
AKRON Joseph H. Kraker. '29. 1776-24th St.. Cuy­ahoga Fails, Ohio, President. Claude H, Homing. "29, 133 N. Highland Ave., Akron, Secretary. 
ARIZONA James D. Barry. '97. Consolidated Bank Bidg., Tucson. President. Steven Rebeil, "26, 620 N . Sixth St . Tucson. Secretary-
ARKANSAS Rev! Geo. F. X. Strassner, '14, Hope, Ark.. President. Burt L, Roberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Roclc, Ark.. Secretary. 
* 
BENGAL R t Kev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., "02. Dacca, Bengal. India, President. Rev. J. 
J. Hennessey. C.S.C., '02. Dacca, Bengal, India. Secretary. 
BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) Wm. H. Downey, '28, 1615 Oak St, Nflcs. Mich., President Malcolm K. Hatfield. 
•29, 2305 Niles Ave., S t Joseph, Mich., Secretary. 
* 
BOSTON Jarlath (Jack) Slattcry. '21, 226 L. St, So. Boston, Mass., President James Ska­han, '31, 5 Grove St., Belmont, Mass., Sec­retary. 
BUFFALO John G. Byrne. '23. 149 Monroe Dr.. Wil­liamsville, N. Y., President Robert Meaaer. 
•34, The Amherst Bee Co., Main & Rock Sts., Williamsville, N.Y.. Secretary. Jay L. (Biffy) Lee, prominent Notre Dame alumnus, addressed the 
Williamsville Eotary Club at a meet­ing held Monday evening, February 
3. In addition to the Rotarians, a group of Notre Dame alumni at­tended the meeting in compliment to Mr. Lee. 
"Success is hased on cooperation," 

District 22 (Foreign)—Julius Arce, '99, Buenos Aires, Argentine. S.A 
said Mr. Lee. "The only reason that your club, and any organization, is successful is hecause the men within that group cooperate. Cooperation is the ability of the men within a group to adapt themselves to the unit as a whole that is a success." 
Mr. Lee spoke of the early history of the University of Notre Dame, touching on Eocloie and some of the outstanding football men. He stated that football men receive the finest lessons in adaptability, consequently the majority of them are a success in later life. 
"The important thing to remember in anything you do," concluded Mr. Lee, "is that you must give before you get. The trouble today is that people only want to get but will not give." 
Martin Ryan, '30, is receiving the sympathy of friends on the death of his father, M. P. Eyan. 
Bob Measer. 
CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-I1L) 
William L. Travis. '27, 803 Uoyd Bldg.. 
Hammond, Ind.. President Fred J. Sol-
man, Jr., ^28, 5752 Erie Ave.. Hammond. 
Ind.. Secretary. 
CAPITOL DISTRICT (New York) 
Qare L. Touhey, '26, 601-02 National Sav­ings Bank Bldg., Albany. N. Y., President Edvrard J. Eckert •SS, 5 Lawnridge Ave., Albany, N. Y., Secretary. 
Our Christmas formal held at the Hotel Ten Eyck, on December 26, was a huge social success and, I hope, a financial one, although we are not in a position to know this inasmuch as this end of the dance is taken care of by the undergraduate Club. Such "old-timers" as Chris Connelley, Ron­ald McNamee, Doc Touhey, Tom Far­ley, and John Huether did themselves proud. Conspicuous by theii- ab­sence were Jack and Billy Casazza who usually lead the singing. Their place was filled by Jack Rainey and Frank Maher who performed nobly. 

Congratulations are in order for Jack Casazza and Frank Duquette who recently took unto themselves brides. Duke's spouse is unknown to me, but Jack married the former Mary Keefe of Albany. 
Besides being a lawyer, Mr. Tou­hey, our president, is also a financial genius. Doc put this Club on its feet financially for which he deserves a lot of credit. Jim, if you need any help out there in collecting alumni dues, get in touch with Doc who is 
a  wonder  at  it.  Ask  our  Club  
members.  
Our  newest  member  is  Frank  

Hayes, formerly of Pennsylvania. Farley and yours truly are struggling along with the Albany office' of the Universal Credit Company. Other members in the finance game are Bud Odenwald, who is with the As­sociates Discount Company, and John Campbell, district supervisor with the 
C.I.T. Corporation. Edward J. Eckert, Secretary. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Eichenlaub, •IE, Hoster Real­ty Bldg., Columbus, President 

For your March ALUMNUS, we might remark, on our interest in sur­
March. 1936 
rounding towns that would come within the Central Ohio Club, as follows: 
The Central Ohio Club originally-intended to serve, within a radius of about fifty miles, the alumni within convenient reach of Columbus, where group activity was limited by num­ber or where no club existed. With­ing easy contact we had such towns as Newark, Zanesville, New Lexing­ton, Lancaster, Logan, Circleville, Chillicothe, Washington Court House, London, Springfield, Urbana, Belle­fontaine, Marysville, Kenton, Marion, Delaware, Mt. Gilead and Gambier. 
Two rather definite reasons for lack of continued interest and devel­opment seem to have permitted a sus­pension in active relation with Co­lumbus, which no doubt has been re­garded as something of a "parent" citj-: the failure of the Columbus group to foster the relationship and the failure of the alumni in smaller towns to show an aggressive attitude in alumni affairs. 
In order to renew interest, we urge such Central Ohio alumni to contact us and become actively associated in alumni matters. We will do our part from now on. 
Harry Nester reports the comple­tion of an up-to-date recreation room at home. Inspection reveals a sort of combination law libraiy and raths­keller. Friends recommend that legal atmosphere should never be permitted to interfere with or render secondarj­any other use of the premises. 
Don M. (Judge and the Law) Hamilton called the other day to in­form us that Chester (Chet) Freeze was in town. Chet sells orange juice, or something, for the Freesweet Products Company of Los Angeles. Bill Bosler of Louisville, of the Ken­tucky Rock Asphalt Company, and Johnny Butler of Cleveland, another legal advisor, took time out to visit us. 
We look forward to Universal Notre Dame Night and Rockne Day, the latter being sponsored by Dr. D. 
M. Nigro of Kansas City. 
No Notre Dame man should set foot within the bounds of this city without announcing himself to club members. 
Ray J. Eichenlaub, President. 

CHICAGO 
John W. Scallan. '25, 79 E. Adams St.. President. AI G. Stepan, '31. 365 E. Illi­nois St.. Secretary. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hcmics, '16. 1910 Oakland St.. 
Lansing. President. J. Harvey Gauthier, 
'30, Bark River, Michican. Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
CINCINNATI 
Harry V. Crumley. '03, Z6S5 S. Harrison Ave.. Westwood Branch, President. Frank 
H. Sweeney, ex. '17, Kemper Lane Hotel, Secretary. 
Once again for the monthly patter: 
The regular meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Cincinnati was held on Tuesday evening, February 4, at the Kemper Lane Hotel, pre­sided over by our new president, Harry Crumley. The feature of the evening was a splendid baseball talk by Charlie Dressen, manager of the Cincinnati Redlegs. 
The regular meeting for March has been changed to Wednesday, March 4, in order that we might participate in the country-wide memorial to Rockne. A special program is planned for that evening. Hogan Mon-issey and Leo DuBois are responsible for the program for this occasion. 
The Club, at our last meeting, also made plans to hold a Joint meeting with the alumni of out of town Cath­olic schools. This program is in the 
hands of Bob Hughes, Joe Kinneary 
and AI CastelHni. 
The members of the Cincinnati Club are indeed happy to hear that Howard J. Rohan has been able to leave the Good Samaritan Hospital, and is now at his home, 2990 Erie Avenue. Howard has had a long siege in the hospital, and we are all happy to know that he is able to be back home. 
The Cincinnati Club regrets very much to lose Billy Sullivan, who has transferred his acti\'ities to the Cleve­land baseball club. We have always enjoyed having Billy mth us, and no need to say that he will be mighty welcome in Cleveland. We all 'wish him a lot of luck with the Cleveland Indians. 
One of our old timers from Notre Dame, Art Hayes, was with us at our last meeting, and he got such a lack out of the meeting that he has prom­ised to make them all in the future. Art was one of the way-back-when (1895) football players at N.D. Art's stories of school at that time are, in­deed, interesting. 
Had the good fortune to run into Bob Kuerze, '96, yesterday. Bob is an official of the Hudepohl Brewing Company here, and he informed me that he will be in attendance at our next meeting. 
Larry Janszen, 1910, just spread the word that he is taking his family to Florida for a trip. With all the snow here, I wish he had a larger car. 
Frank H. Sweeney, Secretarj". 

A fine letter from Harry Crumley, president of the Club, promises his best co-operation in the matter of bringing — you guessed it — alumni dues to the attention of the members. 
169. 

Who doesn't wish that such bringing-to-the-attehtion weren't necessary? 
CLEVELAND 
Clayton Leroux, '27. 3356 Daleford Road. Cleveland Hfrts., Ohio, Fiesident. Otis Winchester, '29. ZSSS Ueadowbrook Blvd., Cleveland Hets.. Ohio, Secretary. 
The first bit of news I hafe is very sad. We recently lost one of onr members, Paul Charleton, who was killed in an automobile accident Sat­urday, February 8. I also wish to re­port the death of Jolin Viktoryn's mother. The club extends the fam­ilies their sincere sympathy. 
The next thing on the program is the annual retreat to be held at St. Stanislaus Novitiate starting Friday, Februarj' 28. The committee in charge are Tom Byrne and George Kerver. They have done a splendid job this year in lining up members for this retreat. It will be the big­gest turn-out they have ever had. 
Paul Castner and Father M. I-
Moriarity are arranging the Rockne Mass to be held on Sunday, March 
29. We have decided to observe the anniversary of Rock's death the Sun­day prior to the anniversary. 
Stan Cofall is in charge of arrange­ments for our Easter party, and if everything goes through that he has planned, it will be a gala event. 
The last thing that we have sched­uled for this year is Universal Notre Dame night. Gay Haas, Frank But­ler and Joe Butler are arranging for this party. 
We had a business meeting at Fisher-Rohr's.' We had the pleasure of Joe Thompson's attendance as chairman of the Board of Governors. Things discussed at this meeting were the passing of the student contract similar to the contract which is in effect with the New Jersey clubs. After serious consideration by a com­mittee headed by Pat Canny, it was decided to adopt this measure and it was passed by the members of the club as a whole. 
The incorporation of the club has been accomplished and also passed by the members at large. Nick Ruf­fing did a splendid job on this work and it was recommended by the offi­cers. Board of Governors and Frank Cull who gave it his final O.K. The rest of the meeting was spent in out­lining the events which were named above. Pat Lawless finally put in an appearance at this meeting. 
Otis S. Winchester. 

At a recent meeting of the officers of the club I was appointed chairman of an afi^air that is to be arranged for the high school graduates who are to be prospective students of Notre Dame next September. Our plans are to combine this Father and Son function with the Universal Notre Dame Night party to be held April 20. 
Perhaps you will be interested in the committee arranging the part}-. They are the following: Reception, Dr. Joseph V. Heimann, T. Pierre Champion and John Flynn; Dinner, James Devitt, George "Dutch" O'­Day and George Hahn; Entertain­ment, Dennis O'Neill, Walt Rauber and John J. Reidy; Invitations, Carl Martersteck, Gene Kane and Larry Krai. Joseph Butler is contacting the prospective students. Any of the details of the part>-I cannot give at this time but it certainly promises to be unique. I thought you may be in­terested in this item for publication in the ALUJIXUS. 
Gay Haas. 
* 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY Thomas E. Fercuson, *26. 7 Windsor St.. Thompsonville. Conn.. President Francis 
D. Ahem. "as. 1 Webster St.. Hartford. Conn.. Secretarj'. 
DALLAS 
James P. Snift, '24, 1202 Southwestern 
Life Bldff., Dallas. President. Francis A. 
SIcCullonKh. '30. 917 First Nationnl Ban); 
BIdff.. Dallas, Secretary. 
DAYTON 
Amos Clay. 'LI. 224 S. Main St., Dayton. 
President. Andrew A. Aman. Jr.. '30. 210 
Lexinjrbon Ave.. Dayton. Sccretars'­
DENVER 
Robert Dick, '29, 930 Grant St. President 
Harry Lawrence. '29, 1951 Lawrence St., 
Secretary. 
Gene Blish, (I took the right-of­way away from him on the street the other night and he ran me down to say "hello"), Johnnie Humphries, Bob Dick and Harry Lawrence, I've seen quite often lately. They're all getting along famously. Gene has' an excel­lent opportunity with the Hungarian Mills here. I've heard they think a lot of him. Harry is still doing the same grand job at the New England Electric Company. Bob is lawj'ering all over the place. 
Christmas-time out in the bush I met a young man attending school there at present and had a chat with him about some friend I met there last Summer. Russ Sabo is playing a grand game of basketball with the United Fuel team of Denver. They have a good outfit, and our K.C.L. team is expected to have its hands full "taking" them a week from to­night. The two teams are both Na­tional A.A.U. calibre. Sabo wants to go back this next summer to see the campus, and, of course, if you think I wouldn't you're crazy. If if s at all possible, I'll be there. The two of us may drive. 
Carl Gaennslen eats lunch once in a while at the same place I do. At any rate, out of a clear sky, I met the lad here in Denver about a month ago and found him much married n' everj-tliing. His home, you'll recall is in Green River, Wyoming, but the State of Wyoming keeps him busy all through the good weather months of the year, and the rest of the time, lends his valuable services to the 
U. S. Geological Sun-ey, and he spends a lot of time with them here in Denver. 
I managed to run across Charlie Haskell some time ago. (Gosh! it's almost a year!) at the time his last youngster was bom. Was he proud! Last I heard, Louie Hough was hav­ing some youngsters, too, but that is almost a year ago, too. You'd better hurry that Notre Dame Night along so we-all kin get togethah out heah! 
Needless to say, I enjoyed the -•VLUMNUS no end as usual and still I was a little disappointed, too. How come all these guys getting married? Even Tom Kassis, mah old fren'— and in Cheyenne, too! (Sooch a town!) Must be I'm jealous. 
Best to you and to all the lads. I'm still at the same old traveling salesman and am going out into the bush tomorrow morning early, so changes of address are still in order. Incidentally—^will you take my name off the Kansas City roster. I can't even get back there for a week-end. Say "hello," next time you're there, 
to Jim Bray, Bob Tyler, Charlie Foley 
—^Lord, I'll be at it all night—all of the fellows there, anyway. They're a grand bunch and they've a dum swell alumni organization, if you're interested in that sort of thing. 
More I think about it, more I'm. figuring on the '31 reunion next June. 
See you (mebbe). Ray Smith. 
* 
DETROIT 
Joseph J. Norton. '24. 325 Merton Road. 
President: Edward R. McMahon, ex. '30, 
2291 LaMotte Ave., Secretary. 
On Tuesday, Januai-y 21, the Notre Dame Club of Detroit was honored by the presence of Elmer Layden at a luncheon held at the University Club. Elmer came to Detroit to attend the annual football banquet of the Uni­versity of Detroit, at which he was the guest of honor and principal speaker. 
Joe Norton, president of the De­troit Club, appointed a reception committee consisting of the following men to greet Elmer when he arrived 
•at the Union Depot at 8:30 A.M., 
Jack Higgins, Al Slaggert, Marce Verbiest, Line Wurzer, Lou Conroy, Gil Schaefer, Joe Norton. 
Through the courtesy of Gil Schaefer, general manager of Walker Motor Sales, Hudson-Terraplane deal­ers, transportation and drivers were provided for the committee and in addition, Elmer had a car and driver at his disposal all during the day. The group went direct from the depot to the Detroit Athletic Club where Jack Higgins had arranged for breakfast. Jack had also arranged for Elmer to make his headquarters at the club so that he could have some degree of privacy. 

Layden made his first formal ap­pearance of the day at the Club luncheon in his honor held at the University Club. Marc Verbiest verj' graciously arranged for the luncheon and handled all of the details in con­nection with it. The officers, as well as the entire membership of the Notre Dauie Club of Detroit greatly appreciate the efforts of Gil Schaefer, Jack Higgins and Marc Verbiest to make the visit of our guest a most pleasant one. 
The luncheon was attended b.v ap­proximately 150 members in addition to many friends of Notre Dame and representatives of the nress. Among those attending were D. P. O'Keefe, member of the Board of Directors, Alumni Association; John E. Moore, Gus Dorais, and Ed Sawkins, the lat­ter a member of the first football team at Noti-e Dame. Former foot­ball stars present were Dr. Harvey Brown, Bud Boeringer, John Freder­icks, and Joe Shekeetsky. Joe Nor­ton presided and was ably assisted by Jack Breen, the Club's aggressive treasurer. 
In his talk to the Club, Layden gave a resume of the progress made by the University during the past few years. He paid special tribute to Father O'Hara and expressed his opinion that the management of the University could be in no better hands. Gloom registered on many faces as Elmer recounted one by one the graduating members of the 1935 football team. Coincident with Lay-den's visit to Detroit, all Detroit pa­pers broke with front page publicity on the re-opening of athletic relations between Notre Dame and University of Michigan. 
Another feature of the luncheon was the showing of motion pictures of the 1935 Notre Dame-Army game. 
The annual football banquet of the University of Detroit, at which Lay­den was the principal speaker, had a very distinct Notre Dame atmosphere. The Notre Dame Club of Detroit was well represented with many members attending. Jack Higgins was listed among the speakers of the evening and was designated by Gus Dorais and Joe Norton to introduce Layden. Notre Dame was frequently men­tioned throughout the evening by the various speakers. Both Father Poet­ker. President of U. of D., and Gus Dorais paid glowing tribute to Elmer Layden and the University of Notre Dame. Elmer was warmly received by the crowd which packed the ban­
March. 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
quet hall to hear him and for the most part confined his remarks to football and to a eulogy of Gus Dorais, the "dean" of all Notre coaches. 
The day will long be remembered by members of the Detroit Club and many Detroit friends of Notre Dame. The strength of the Detroit organiza­tion was obviously very apparent and it is the sincere hope of the officers that the members will continue to turn out even though there may not always be an Elmer Layden to at­tract them. 
The monthly meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit was held at the University Club on Jlonday, Febru­arj' 3. Joe Norton had designated this as reunion night for the men in the Classes of 1930 to 1935 inclusive and appointed Jack Breen as chair­man for the evening. Jack and his committee did a mar\'elous job in bringing together the men in the 1930 to 1935 gi-oup and was instru­mental in swelling the attendance to approximately 150, the largest turn­out of the year. 
Through the kindness of iSIr. Arthur D. Cronin (father of Art Cronin, Notre Dame tackle), the club witnessed motion pictures of the Noti-e Dame - Ohio State football game. Line Wurzer did an outstand­ing job as narrator.' Unfortunately, Mr. Cronin was unable to attend be­cause of illness, but the members of the club wish to express their appre­ciation of his kindness in furnishing such fine entertainment. The speaker of the evening was Eddie Bachelor, Spoi-ts Editor of the Detroit Satitrday Night. Bachelor, dean of Detroit sports ^^^•iters, had many interesting stories to tell of sports celebrities and newspaper experiences of the past thirty years. 
Once again, we wish to thank Marc Verbiest for arranging for fa­cilities of the University Club. 
Plans for the next meeting, to be held Monday, March 2, are already under way. In addition, Joe Norton has started to prepare for the visit of the Notre Dame basketball team which will oppose University of De­troit on March 10, by appointing Louis Conroy to head a committee to handle the affair. Arrangements will be made with the Athletic Depart­ment of the U. of D. which will as­sure the Club members as well as local followers of Notre Dame of an organized cheering section, something which has been lacking in the past. 
DES MOINES 
James C. Shaw, '22. 307 EquitaUe Bldpr., 
President F. M. Wonderlin. '29. 302 Hub-
bell Bids., Secretary. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA James D. Hayes, 'IT, 4612 Morfmn Drive, Chevy Chase, Md., President. J. Thomas Carver, '32, 1210 Perry St., N.E., Wash­ington,* D.C., Secretary. 
A Pre-Lenten Dance sponsored on February 14 by the Club was one of the chief functions in the social cal­endar of the national capital. It was held in the Willard Eoom of the Wil­lard Hotel, with dancing from 10 o'clock on. 
EASTERN INDIANA Thomas A. Cannon, '33, 401 Wysor Bldg., Muncie, Ind., President. Alvis E. Grancer, ex. '31, 617 S. Jefferson St. Hartford City, Ind,, Secretary. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem, Presi­dent Ernest h. Wilhelm. '27, New Jer­sey Zinc Co., Research Vcpt.. Palmerton, Secretary. 
* 

ERIE, PENNSYIVANIA 
Richard D. Daley, '17, Erie Daily Times, 
President. Thomas Barber, '24, 416 New­
man St., Secretary. 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY (Connecticut) 
James Murphy, '22. 611 Security Bids., Bridgeport, Conn,, President, Joseph E. Russo, '32, 166 Hough Ave., Bridgeport, Conn,, Secretary. 
* 

FORT WAYNE, INDIANA Donnelly P. McDonald, '12, Peoples Trust & Savings Co., President Edward S. Sul­livan, '24, 125 E. Suttenfield St, Secretary. The news from Fort Waj-ne for the March issue of our ALUJIXUS W U have to be mostly personal in nature for the local club did not have a scheduled meeting within the past month. This may seem a little dis­heartening, but I am happy to an­nounce that a dinner meeting is ar­ranger for February 24, which prom­ises to attract a fairly good gathering. 
The dinner is being given in honor of Chet Grant and Tom Conley who will present mo\ing pictures of the Ohio State-Notre Dame game to mem­bers of Port Wayne Council of the Knights of Columbus later in the eve­ning. 
The following members of our Club have already made reservations for the dinner: E. Richard Biggins, Edward C. Bushman, Martin J. Cleary, Maurice J, DeWald, Stephen 
B. Fleming, Henry Hasley, Frank M. Hogan, Arthur W. Miller, Donnelly 
P. McDonald, Thomas McKiernan, Gerald W. Morsches, T. Harold Moy­lan. Jack O'Connor, Paul Sagstetter, Fred D, Schoppman and Martin Tor­borg. 
It is expected that many more res­ervations %vill be received tomorrow. 
Hon. John W. Eggenian courteous­ly sent me a note expressing his sin­cere regret that he would be unable to be with us. He informed me that he is leaving today for a three-week vacation in Florida. 
Harry Hogan's secretary also sent a note stating that Harry has not re­turned from Bulgaria. He will be back in the city about March 15. 
John Rusnalc, A.B. '32, of Chicago, travelling for Yates-American Wood­working Machinery Company, of Be­loit, Wisconsin, spent February 10 to 14 in Fort Wayne. He was on his way to Flint, Michigan, but the deep snows and unusually severe weather necessitated the short lay-over with us. I had the pleasure of spending two evenings with him. Maurice De­Wald was in school at the same time John attended and fortunately he was given an opportunity to renew an old acquaintance. 
Ed Sullivan, Secretary. 

GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) Robert O'Callaghan, ex. '16. Gogebic Na­tional Bank, Ironwood, President Francis 
J. Vukovich, '35, Ridge St , Ironwood, Mich., Secretary. 
GRAND RAPIDS 
George E. Ludwig, '25, 328 Glenhaven 
Ave., N.W., President Raymond J. Bonini, 
'27, 607 Atwood, N.B.. Secretary. 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
Harold L. Londo, '24, City Engineers' Of­
fice, City Hall, President Levi A. Geniesae, 
'24, 510 Minahan Bldg.. Secretary. 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
M. O. Bums, '86, 338 S. Second St. Presi­dent Marc A. Fiehrcr, '27, 701 Rentschler Bldg., Secretary. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) 
Norman Bartholomew, '15, 223 Cleveland 
Ave., Iron Mountain, Mich., President 
Michael S. Corry. '27, 837 Terrace Ave., 
Marinette, "Wis,, Secretary. 
HOUSTON 
M. E. Walter, '14, 1702 Stuart Ave., Hous­ton, President Thomas F. Green Jr.. '27, Conroe, Texas, Secretary, 
INDIANAPOLIS Thomas Jones, "04, 211 E. McCarty St, President Michael R. FO-T, '34, 3942 N. Penn St., Secretary. Assistant Coach Chet Grant' and the football films provided the cen­ter of entertainment for the Indian­apolis Club at its recent party. Sec­retary Mike Fox reports that 70 or so fellows were present for dinner and that others came in afterwards for the pictures and to hear Indian­apolis taken by Grant. Judge Jim Deery, a director of the Alumni Asso­ciation, spoke on the activities of the Association and on all the things it would like to do were there the oppor­tunity and, especially, the funds. The whole gathering was a huge social success, Mike says. 
Tom Jones, president of the dub, passed around the figures on the dues situation at one of the recent club luncheons (they're held every Mon­day) and asked for every possible assistance from the Indianapolis mem­bers of the Association. 
JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
Byrne M. Daly. 207 EUery Ave. President. Lester Wisda. '31, 1016 E. Canson St.. Secretary. 
* 
JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
Robert Duffy. '31. 213 N. Hickory. Prrai­dent. Edward H. King. 301 Ruby St. Secretary. 
Joseph Kirincich was successful at the bar exam, and ivill be admitted to practice on Februarj- 13. We wish him every success. 
Forty members and their friends enjoyed a bob-ride Saturday night, Januarj' 18. We had two sleighs and Baskerville hitched his big sleigh to his auto and picked up the overflow. After two hours ride in the country the party returned to the club rooms and enjoyed a steak dinner with trim­mings. Everybody enjoyed himself as reported by Joe Adler and Charles Lennon. A number of stops had to be made on account of frozen "radia­toi-s", especially by Dr. E, J. Mayer and Joe Silk. 
Robert Duffy, president of the club, has been confined to bed for about 10 days. 
James Martin is with the cit\' en­gineer's office. 
Thomas Feely has been trans­ferred to the Blue Island office of the Public Service of Northern Xllinois. 
Max Carey has developed into a basketball magnate. Ed H. King was elected president of Will Countj' Diniggists Association. 
Joe Adler is now vice-president of the largest retail grocery store in Joliet. 
Fifty members and friends of the Club attended the luncheon at the club rooms on February 6, to greet Coach Elmer Layden who gave a very interesting account of last year's team and what to expect next year. He also showed the pictures of the Ohio State game, and evei-yone en­joyed his talk immensely. After the luncheon he was escorted to Aurora by a number of the boys. 
We had a verj' delightful Valentine party sponsored by Robert Basker­ville and Thomas J. Feely. 
The members were entertained by their wives and girl friends on Jan­uary 15. We greatly appreciated the ladies' entertainment. 
Ask Dr. Mayer, Joe Silk, James Martin and Clarence Wilhelmi about Tuesday night, Februari- 18. It is very interesting. 
The nomination of officers for the ensuing year took place at the last The Notre Dame Alumnus 
meeting. The election will be held at the March meeting. Nominations for president are: Thomas J. Feely, Robert Baskerville, Dr. E. J. Mayer; for \ice-president: Joseph Kirincich and Donald Wise; for secretary-treas­
urer:  Joseph  Wallace  and  Joseph  
.A.dler.  
*  Ed. King.  '  
KANSAS  

Albert J. Gebert, 'SO. V. of Wichita. Wich­ita, Kansas. President. Dan Welchons. '30. G23 Elm St., Ottawa. Kansas. Secretary. 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) 
Robert Tyler, '29. 3616 Paseo Blvd.. Kan­sas City, Mo., President. Charles E. Meyer, 
•29, 420 E. Armour Blvd., Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. 
KENTUCKY 
Eugene J. Steuerle, '25, 1439 Willow Ave., Louisville, President. John Bannon, '32, 2011 Sherwood. Louisville, Secretary. 
LAPORTE, INDIANA 
Clarence Bunce. '25. 613 Ridge St., Presi­dent. Stephen Shaplcy, '30, Goodyear Tire Co., Socretarj*. 
The local Notre Dame Club is now in the hands of a new set of officers. The new President is Clarence Bunce, '25, who succeeds A. Gordon Taylor, el. '29. Franklyn A. N. Stroud, '38, was elected vice-president to succeed Arthur L. Roule, '30, and Stephen Shapley, '30, is the new secretary-treasurer. His address is c/o Good­year Senice, Lincolnway at Detroit Street, La Porte, Indiana. 
The meeting was held Tuesday, Februarj' 4, at the K. of C. club­rooms. A new policy was suggested and carried, that is, holding meetings every month, on the second Monday, and having someone from the Uni­versity over for a short talk, or some­thing of a like nature. At the meet­ing a new board of governors was also elected, and they are: A. Gordon Taylor, el, '29, Hon. Alban M. Smith, '28, and John A. Kelley, '25. 
The point in view of the club right now is Universal Notre Dame Night, April 20, at which time we intend to have a large meeting and in^'ite the public. 
After the business of the meeting was finished the rest of the evening was spent in visiting, and consuming the beer and sandwiches donated to the club. Norman E. Duke. 
LOS ANGELES 
Thomas Heam, '15, 1120 Pacific Finance Bldg., President. Douglas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Secretary. 
Opening up again after a long lay­off to let you know, what's going on out in the sunny shores of dear old California! We had plenty of activ­ity all through the Summer but in the Fall we slacked off just a little while the boys let their tan wear off. 
March. 1936 
We're back on schedule again, how­ever, having tossed a gigantic dance here a month or so ago. Plenty of old faces showed themselves once more, among them G. Larry Ott, Johnny Tappenier, AI Howard, Frank Barry, Dr. John Gocke (who now boasts a healthy family of a boy and a girl), Emmett McCabe (who win­ters, fashionably, in Washington, D. C.) and Louis Berardi, '32. 
Quite a number of fellows have dropped in on us during the past few months and, as is usually the case with visitors, most of the boys are still with us. If this sort of thing keeps up we'll have a powerful or­ganization before long. Frank Downs, '30, popped by while on his vacation some time ago but he stayed only a day or so. Mink Melinkovich decides that he likes the climate so well that he's going to stay, and that is true also of Nick Lukats, '32, another football great. Nick, incidentally is now under contract at Fox, where he's taking a draamtic course in prep­aration to embarking on his long-delayed film career. Our latest ar­rival is Art Erra, '30, the Akron dir­igible, who has already gone Holly­wood on us even though he's only been here a few weeks. It seems that he is going in strong for lover parts in the little theatre movement. As a day-time sideline he manages a local bank's bond department. 
Another visitor, just recently de­parted, was the Arizona jack-rabbit known to his intimates as Red—that's Jack Flinn, '30, the wild man from the tall and uncut. Red and Jack Cannon staged a broncho-busting ex­hibition here last Summer that'll live forever in the feeble memories of all who saw it. Red's riding days are about over, though — he's getting hitched to some lucky gal in a couple of months. Another recent arrival is Bemie Conroy, '30, class secretarj". He's a prety hard guy to catch up with because he hangs his hat way over in Burbank. He won't even ac­cept my invitation to dinner so's we can spend an evening chewing the fat like we used to in Sorin sub. 
Father O'Hara's arrival in town a week or so back prompted a little fast action. He told us on Monday that we could have a little get-to­gether dinner for him on Thursday night. The telephone crew went right to work and turned up with an at­tendance of 55, a very creditable turnout in these parts. The turnout is a glowing tribute to the popularity of Father O'Hara. Even William Anthony McGuire, famous playwright and director, left work on "The Great Ziegfeld" to do honor to our presi­dent, and also present were famous attorney Joseph Scott, and Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C., still continuing his studies at Cal Tech. 
Our medical brethren are doing 

March, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
very well, thank you. Dr. Bob Dock­weiler is keeping Hollywood on its feet. Dr. AI Anton, '28, just recently married and cruised to Honolulu on his honeymoon, Dr. Bill Molony, Jr., '28, is a Pasadena emergency cut-up. Then, besides John Gocke, we have Doctors Frank J. Breilin, John P. Naughton, H. Franklin Thompson, George E. Malmgren, Earl Brady, and James Wargin to keep us in ship shape. 
Fred Pique, '30, has just embarked in the canning business in Wilming­ton. Joe Daley, '28, has recently re­turned from a year's stay in Chica­go and has once again taken up the battle wth myself and our rough, tough Dad in the printing business. Friends of Neil Ran, '32, will be re­lieved to hear that the popular Nash­ville lad is right here in our midst and is about to enter the movies from the writing end. Sid Sidenfaden, '29, received a well-deserved promotion from Union Oil Company. He now roams over California, Arizona and Nevada entertaining big shots of the leading construction companies and pouring Union products like honey in their ears. 
Mervin Aggeler, '28, has left the Bank of America and is now a part­ner in the law offices of Michael Pur­cell, one of L.A.'s best. Dick Mullen, '34, is hooked up with the L.A. Paper Box Company, but so far I haven't been able to catch up •with him. Rev. George Scott of our renowned Scott family has been given a new parish in Pasadena, and says he's glad to be back with us again. AI Scott, '22, is newly elected magistrate to head municipal court judges of the city-
Doug. Daley, '30. 

LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
P. E. Burke. '88. 307 Camp St.. New Or­leans, La., President. Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr., "28. Whitnear-CejilraS Bldar,. New Or­leans. La., Secretary. 

MANILA 
Ednardo Roxas, '33, 719 EchaRue, Manila, President. Leopoldo Brias. Manila, Sec­retary. 

MEMPHIS 
Stnrla Canale. '35, 620 S. Belvidere, Presi­dent, Lavin McNicholas. '35, 591 N. Treze­vant St., Secretary. 

A grand letter from Sturla Canale gives advance notice of many club projects in the making. One of them concerns a hoped-for concert by the Glee Club in Memphis. Another has to do with a Catholic Action lecture in the same city by a representative of the University. Sturla's ideal Notre Dame spirit, coupled with a warm regard for Notre Dame among other Memphis groups, promise splen­did accomplishments. 
MILWAUKEE 
Harold Watson, '23. 735 N. Water St.. 
President Jolin E. Clauder, '34, 1219 W. 
Vliet St., Secretary. 

Harold C. Watson, president of the Milwaukee Notre Dame Club, was promoted to assistant manager, cas­ualty lines, of the branch office of the Travelers Insurance Company in December, and followed that up Jan­uary 3, 1936 by becoming the proud father of a baby boy. Seems he re­ceived his promotion at the proper time. 
Our old friend, Joe Reedy, is back in town again, living at the Astor Hotel. He has been on the road for Universal Credit, but now is in the office here in town. 
Bill Brown, '29, attorney for Allis Chalmers Corporation, has gained a few honors for himself by winning fifth prize in a national "Know Your Religion" contest sponsored by the Catholic weekly paper. Our Sunday Visitor. 
-A.t the present time plans are under way for having a large cheer­ing section at the N.D. - Marquette basketball game March 7. The -4.th­letic Department of Marquette is re­serving a block of tickets for us, and letting us take some out on consign­ment. N.D. men from out of town who wish to attend should write me a line or two and I will keep tickets for them. 
Plans are well under way for a bigger and better Universal Notre Dame Night. 
John E. Clauder, Secretary. 

-A. letter from President Watson assures the Alumni Office of his hearty support, and the support of the Milwaukee Club, in the matter of helping to collect them thar dues. Harold had had a letter in that re­gard from the active and enthusiastic Henry Lauerman, district governor of the Association. 
MONTANA 
Earl W. Brown, '93. 320 Power St., Helena, 
President. James B. O'Flynn, '11. Great 
Falls, Secretary. 

NASHVILLE 
Robert P. Williams, Jr., '29, 106 Gallatin Road, Secretary. 

NEW JERSEY 
Thomas Purccll, '27, 32 N. 16th St.. East 
Orange, President. Raymond A. Geicer, 
'32, 446 Eastern Parkway, Irvington, Sec­
retary. 

The February meeting of the New Jersey alumni was held on February 3 in the Newark Athletic Club and was featured by a large turnout of old timers. It looks as though with the coming of the thaw, we are going to be able to rout out a good number of members for the meetings. 
Phil Heinle made a further report on the Christmas dance and advised that he had heard from the students at school that they liked the Christ­mas dance very much. The beaatifol favor that was presented to each girl attending also came in for some very fine praise. 

Tom Purcell, president of the club, announced that it was the plan of the Club this year to definitely set aside a special scholarship fund. He asked and was granted the power to appoint committemen to draw the scholarship fund up and to elect three trustees to guard the fund for a certain per­iod of time. Dues are to be solicited from the members to pay the running expenses of the Club and every func­tion must be operated at a profit. 
A special drive on dues was sug­gested and the secretary was advised to split up the mailing list into 27 groups of 10 members. Each of the older members of the Club is to so­licit dues from those members on his list. It is believed that enough money can be obtained in this way to pay the running expenses of the Club as well as make the last payment on the box in the stadium which has been delayed because of the depression era. 
In accordance with Jim Arm­strong's appeal, the secretary put it very strongly to the Club to pay their national dues so that the good work that has been carried out by the na­tional alumni could be continued. Every member seemed to realize his duty in this regard and we have hopes that those who have not as yet paid their dues will do so. 
Eddie Duggan, chairman of the Notre Dame Universal Night ban­quet, announced that he has asked the 10 former presidents of the New Jersey alumni club to act as mem­bers of his committee. Each one is given a specific duty and it is hoped that his experience and co-operation in the affair will prove most success­ful. While it is not definitely known where the affair will be held, it is thought that it will take place at the Essex House in Newark. It is hoped that this year's function will be su­perior to any of those held yet and from the looks of things right now, every member of the Club is opti­mistic. 
The secretary was asked to secure the Ohio State-Notre Dame game pic­tures from the school for showing at the March meeting. This was ex­pected to draw a lot of members out and we are looking forward to one of our best monthly meetings at that time. 
-A.mong those who attended this meeting were A. Lydon Bryce, Tom 
Farrell, B. K. Wingerter, Pete Qnmn, Bill Carter, Bob Phelan, Bob Le-Mont, Phil Heinle, Bill SmuIIen and 
numerous others. Raymond A. Geiger, Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus March, 1936 
NEW YORK CITY Edward T. Tighe. 'U. 32 Franklin St . New York City. President. J. Norbert Gclson. Jr., '26. 1201 Troy Ave.. Brooklyn, Secretary. 
* 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Bobcrt P. Sullii-an, '33, 102 Walnut St., San Francisco, Calif.. President. W. Breen McDonald, '17, 839 Howard St.. San Fran­cisco. Chlif., Secretary. 
OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. Moran. '.12. 1611 S. Carson. Tul­
sa. President. Marion J. Blake. "33. Na­
. tional Bank of Tulsa Bids.. Tulsa. Secre­tary. After the first of March please have my mailing address changed to Salina, Kansas, as I am gi\'ing up my position ^\^th Eli Lilly & Company to go into business for myself. 
Marion J. Blake, '33, National Bank of Tulsa Building, Tulsa Okla­homa, ^vill take my place as scribe for the local Club. 
The only news that comes to my mind at this time is that Maurice Car­roll of Kansas Citj' spent a few hours with Lyie Morencey, '27, and the 
•writer last week while on a business trip in Tulsa and made us familiar with Notre Dame going's-on in Kan­sas Cit\'. Norb F. Skelley. 
OREGON 
Frank J. lonergan. '01. Porter Bldfr.. 
Portland, President. James A. Culligan, 
'21. 1540 Wabash Ave., Portland. Secretary. 
Ron Sullivan, '30, dropped in on your correspondent recently, and among other interesting topics, re­ported that Felix Isherwood, '30, is in charge of the Yokohama office of the States Steamship Company. Also, that wedding bells have pealed for Bernard MacNab, '24, and Jack Naftzger, old students. 
We are reliably informed that the gate receipts of the Portland Base­ball Club of the Pacific Cosat League improved to such an extent last sea­son under the able management of Rollie Shefter, '32, that said RoUie will join the ranks of the benedicts before long. 
Lumber buyers of the nation should know that Ron Sullivan of the Sullivan Lumber Company, Portland, Oregon, is able and anxious to fill any and all orders for lumber. Wholesale buyers (including Charlie Schwartz of NaperviUe, Illinois), please note. 
Harold Harstick has recently re­covered from a serious illness. Mail all flowers, congratulatory letters, and outdoor advertising copy to him in care of Poster-Kleiser Company, the big sign people of the Pacific Coast at Portland, Oregon. 
Had a nice visit recently with Charles Baer, better known as "Pep" to his associates in St. Joe Hall dur­ing the days of '04 to '09. "Pep" is the Ford specialist of Coos County, and lives in 3Iarshfield, Oregon. 
Hugh Lacey, old student from '12 to '14, distributed cigars recently on the birth of a daughter, Diane, which brings the Lacey family up to the neat number of four. 
Sam Dolan, C.E. 1910., the well known orator, is busily engaged with the engineering problems of PWA in Portland. Sam is impatient for golf­ing weather to come so he can pur­sue his relentless conquest of the fainvays in an effort to crack 100. 
We regi-et to report the recent de­mise of Mrs. Frank Lonergan, the wife of Frank Lonergan, LL.B., '04, and president of our Portland alumni group. 
A recent visit with Father V/illiam Cunningham, C.S.C., was very much enjoyed, and we sat up to a late hour talking about the old and new Notre Dame. 
Walter Gearin, the crack qualter­miler of Noti-e Dame teams in 1902­04, is active in local real estate circles. 
. One alumnus that merits our deep­est appreaciation is Gen. J. P. O'Neil, 
U.S.A. retired. Patsy is our oldest Portland alumnus as years are meas­ured, but the youngest in spirit, and he is a fine stimulant at our meetings. 
Plans for the annual Universal Night are in progress, and we expect a large percentage of the members to attend for a banner meeting. 
Matt McDougall, Jr., 1933, has re­cently been elected vice-president of Steckmese and McDougall, Inc., in Portland, dealers in marine equip­ment and supplies. 
I note that the club section still car­ries me as secretai-j- and Frank Collier as president of the Oregon group. This is not correct, as at our meeting al­most a year ago the new officers elected were Frank Lonergan, presi­dent, and James Culligan, secretary. 
Wm. C. Schmill. 
PARIS 
Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office, New York 
Herald-Tribune, Paris, France, President, 
PEORIA Frederick J. Meyer, '.33. Dunlap, III., Pres­ident. AI Gury, Jr., '2S, 612 Albany Ave,. Peoria, Secretary. Joe Langton ivrites to tell of pre­liminary plans for the large public banquet which the club is planning for Universal Notre Dame Night. Prominent speakers, from the campus and elsewhere, will be featured, as well as films of last Fall's Ohio State thriller. On top of his duties with the Phillips Petroleum Company, Joe is chairman for the big event, the first of its kind sponsored by the Peoria group. 
PHILADELPHIA Gerard Desen, '10. 6734 N. ISth St.. Pres­ident. Wm. E. Cooney, '31, 5725 McMahon Ave, Secretary. 

Have little news to report this month. We held our regular monthly meeting February 11, at the Philo club with F. A. Berrett as our guest speaker, giving an excellent talk on short wave radio. 
Cliff Prodehl heads a committee which is getting an early start for the Universal Notre Dame Night cel­ebration. 
Ed Bailey is way down Boston way surveying the candy situation, we hear. Charlie Dougherty is employed in the State Revenue department now^. 
More news and less snow next month, let's hope. Bill Cooney. 
PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. John Hilkert, '22, Box 62, President. Julius J. Danch, '25, 343 N, 20th Ave.. Secretary. 

At Dr. D. M. Nigro's request we are planning on a Rockne memorial affair here at the Phoenix end. We have 35 invitations out to attend to the various coaches and their staffs in and near Phoeni.x. We are plan­ning this affair for the 4th of March. 
Sam B. Locken is now with the Tis-marsh Engineering Company of Phoe­nix and Tucson, Arizona. 
Julius J. Danch, Secretary. 
* 

ROCHESTER, (New York) 
Peter J. Connelly, '33. 994 N. Goodman 
St., President; Frank Norton, '32, 80 Beck-
with Terrace, Secretary. 

Since writing you last, we have had another meeting at the Rochester Club, and we are anticipating a gath­ering before Lent. This will prob­ably be the last get-together until Universal Notre Dame Night. At the Notre Dame-Syracuse game, Tom Bums, Jim Gleason, Frank Norton and a couple of other boys, including yours truly, got together. Believe me, the trip to SjTacuse would have been made for no one or no institu­tion other than Notre Dame. It took us about three hours to drive 90 miles and about five hours to come home, the roads were so bad. After the game, we met the team, George Keogan, Johnnie Nyikos, who came down from Boston. Also spent an interesting half hour with Scrap Young, who gave me the low-down as only Scrap can give it. 
L»rry Culliney, '28, of Rutland, Vermont and New York City, has been spending the past month at Rochester, okaying Rochester's banks. Larry is with Federal Deposit Insur­ance Corporation. Incidentally, Larry is prety hot on skis. He gets plenty of opportunity around here to dem­onstrate his prowess. 
March, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
At the Syracuse game, we met Dr. Kelly, '22. Hadn't seen him since my freshman days. 
I have to report with sadness that Jack McGrath's dad died. Guess you knew that Bill Bell's wife also died. Bill had been married less than a year. The club, of course, had Masses read for both. 
Gerry Smith. 

RHODE ISLAND Leo R. arciVloon, *30, 260 Pawtucket Ave.. Pawtuckct, President. John F. McKicr­nan, '34, 206 Lockwood Ave., Providence. Secretary. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) Raymond C. Marclli. '27. 1312 Young St.. Rockford, HI., President. Francis W. Howland. '25. 902 N. Jlain St.. Rockford. III.. Secretary. 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) Thomas F. Van Aarle. "21. Standard Oil Co.. SaKinaw, Mich., President. William 
C. Hurley, "25. 117 Cherry St., Sairinaw. Mich., Secretary. 
SAN ANTONIO William V. Dielmann, Jr.. '23. 10" Thel­ma Drive. President. Edward G. Conroy, '30. 204 E. Craiff PI.. Socrctars'. 
SIOUX CITY, IOWA Vincent F. HarrinRton, '25, Continental flfortjraue Co,, President. 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS Michael F. Kinney, '31, State House. Pres­ident. John Troy, ex. '28. 800 S. Ninth St., Secretary, 
ST. LOUIS Robert HellrunR. '30, 306 N. Grand Blvd.. President; David J. Reillcy. Jr., '30. 1115 Louisville Ave., Secretary. 
Here's a line from the new corre­sponding secretarv of the St. Louis Club. 
On February 10 we held a board of directors' meeting in order to re­organize by establishing a new con­stitution and a new set of by-laws. At this meeting a committee was selected by the president to di-aw up plans for Univei-sal Notre Dame Night. Among other matters it was decided that a monthly affair might be the best wav to hold the interest of all. 
The board of directors is composed of 15 members who are representa­tive of the different years at Notre Dame. Ten of these are selected and the other five were elected to serve as the officers of the club. As you know, the officers were re-elected. 
In the future I hope we may be more helpful to the Alumni Associ­ation. 
V. J. Fehlig. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Francis Jones, '29. 802 LO.O.F. Bids-
South Bend. Ind.. President. Louis Chap­
le.au, '30, Union Trust Bldff., South Bend, 
Ind.. Secretary. 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. Ward L. Leahy. '26, 307 Forest Hill Drive, Syracuse. President, Francis J. Cashier. ox. '34. Il l Wendell .\ve., Syracuse. Sec­retars'. 
* 

TIFFIN. OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt. '11. 260 Melmorc St.. Pres­ident. Fred J. W^asner, '29. 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
* 

TOLEDO 
Norbert Scharf. '26, Toledo Edison Co., 
President. Joseph L. Wctli, '31, 717 Starr 
Ave,, Secretary. 

I have your letter, Jim, of Febra­ary 10, outlining the lack of financial support accorded your office by the alumni. The Notre Dame Club of Toledo's answer to "What the An­swer"? is a grant of $25.00 which is enclosed. We appreciate what is be­ing done by the Association but have been slow to recognize it. 
During the Christmas holidays we sponsored a formal supper dance at the Sylvania Country Club which was a grand success under the able chair­man ship of Fred Sprenger and his committee. The Club got a lot of favorable publicity from the people who follow us in our social activities. The enclosed donation indicates the financial outcome—no, that's not all we realized; we are holding out on you! 
We are calling a special meeting the first part of March to make plans for Universal Notre Dame night on April 20 and a Spring dance. No doubt you will keep us informed on what your office is doing to put over Universal Notre Dame Night. 
John Q. Carey, '27, was elected to the Toledo city council under our new city manager charter in the Novem­ber elections, and was chosen vice-mayor by the council. Previously, John had been our representative to . the state legislature for the past tivo years. 
Urban H. Grade], 621 Wheeling St., Toledo, has been a very active member and loyal Notre Dame man. He attended N. D. in 1929, 1930 and part of 1931. 
Norb M. Scharf, President. 

TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) Georjrc Uhlmeyer, '23, Peoples* Power Co., Davenport, la., PresMent. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) William HoRan. "32. 62 Mary St.. BiUK­hamton. N.Y.. President. William Yeaffer, '34, 18 Vine St., BiuKhamton. New York. Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) John D. Yelland. '30. 3221 Holmes Ave.. So., Minneapolis, President; Joseph R. Schroeder. '31. 219 Fremont Ave.. N.. Minneapolis, Secretary. 
UTAH 
Raymond R. Brady. '24, 206 Keams Bide.. 
Salt Lake City, President, Cyril Harbecke. 
•19, 64 F. St.. Salt Lake City. Secretary. 
UTICA, NEW YORK Dr. John F . KcUey, "22. Peoples' Gas & Electric BldB.. President, Joseph W. Fol­lem, '31, 1621 Neilson St.. Secretary. 
WABASH VALLEY. (Indiana) Paul Kennedy, '24, Templeton. Indiana, President. Emmett Ferguson, '32, Wallace Building:. Lafayette, Indiana.'Secretary. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT John Robinson. '28, 32 Farminston Ave., President. James M. I^Ionaghan, '27, 44 Ayer St., Secretary. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA Francis J. Wilson. '28. 1217 Melvem. Pittsburgh, President. Edward J. O'Brien, Jr., '34. 446 Wood St.. Pittshureh. Sec­retary. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON John J. Dempsey, '95, Dempsey Ltunber Co., Tacoma, President. Robert I. Pigott, 
•32, 925 12th Ave., N., Seattle, Secretary. 
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA Thomas F. Howley, '11, Citizens-Peoples Trust Co., Wheelinir, President. George Sargus, '28. 2111 Belmont, BeUaire. Ohio, 
Szctctary, 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO John Moran, '29. 1348 Quinn, President. Charles Cushwa. *31, 463 Bladcra Ave., Secretary. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Sister M. Frederick, C.S.C.. S t Mary's Coilejre. Notre Dame. Ind., President. Sis­ter JI. Angelice. B.VJil., Secretary. 
EXHIBITION OF PAINTINGS 
An exhibition of paintings by out­standing American artists opened on February 5 in the library art galle­ries of the University. The exhibi­tion continued until February 24, un­der the direction of Professor Emil Jacques, head of the Fine Arts De­partment. 
The paintings were a part of the traveling unit of the Isochromatic ex­hibition which was loaned through the courtesy of the Research Labor­atories of M. Grumbacher of New York City. 
There were 22 canvasses in the ex­hibit and the subjects covered the entire range from rural and city scenes to life studies. 
PRESIDENT APPOINTED 

Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, pres­ident of the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed to a com­mittee of 26 educational, social, com­mercial and editorial leaders which will act in an advisory capacity in preparing the Indiana section of the 
American Guide. 
Appointment of the committee was completed by state WPA offifficials in Indianapolis. The comratitee will include in its duties counseling of WPA officials "in work to be done by those employed on the federal writers' project. 
176 The Notre Dame Alumnus March, 1936 
THE ALUMNI 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Madeline Raeder and Eugene Milliflf, '29. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Veronica E. Cole and J. Henry Fannan, '24, -were married January 25, in St. James Pro-Cathe­dral, Eockford, Ilinois. 
Miss Loma Rea Adams and Eugene A. Willinganz, '25, vrere mar­ried Januarj' 2, in Lock Haven, Penn­sylvania. 
Miss Maria-Teresa Marina Bures and Edward A. Fallon, '26, were mar­ried Januarv 11, in BrookljTi, New York. 
Miss Grace Mary O'Brien and James C. Roy, '29, were married Feb­ruary 20, in Marblehead, Massachu­setts, 
Miss Ruth Greenwood and Carl A. Fisher, ex. '34, were married Febru­ary 22, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Helen Hanley and William D. Ayres, '34, were married February 19, in St. Joseph Church, South Bend. Robert Cahill, '34, served as best man. 
Miss Elizabeth Crowley and Maur­ice Lefere, '35, were married Febru­ary 5, in Jackson, Michigan. 
Miss Majorie DeWyze and Paul C. Kuboske, ex. '37, were married Feb­ruary 12, in South Bend. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. Leo P. Rieder, '23, announce the birth of a son, James Leo, Februarj' 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. George J. Wack, '23, announce the birth of a daughter, Margaret Marj% January 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Baumgartner, '25, announce the birth of a son, James Alan, January 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert V. Dunne, '26, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Mary Claire, February 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest J. Wilhelm, '27, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Mary Alice, December 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Cosgrove, '28, announce the birth of a son, Janu­ary 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. Neil Rau, ex. '32, an­nounce the birth of a son, William Robert, February 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Gonciarz, '32, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Geraldine, Januarj' 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. John H. McNamara, '33, announce the birth of a son, John Henry, Jr., February 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh B. O'Neil, '34, announce the birth of a daughter, Maiy Elizabeth, January 25. 
DEATHS 
The ALUMNUS e.vtends sincere sym­pathy to: Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., '99, upon the death of his mother; Fred, '17, and Thomas Ma­haffey, '33, upon the death of their father; John Annas, '35, upon the death of his mother; John Bums, '27, upon the death of his brother; Rob­ert E. Gorman, '32, upon the death of his father; Gyp, '28, and Harold Sporl, '34, upon the death of their father; Prof. David, '29, John, '26, and Joseph Campbell, '38, upon the death of their mother; George Scheuer, '28, upon the death of his father; Dr. John Viktoryn, '28, upon the death of his mother; Joseph V. Stodola, ex. '32, upon the death of his wife. 
Frank N. Maas, OS., '76, el.. '26, died in St. Paul on January 4, ac­cording to a note from his family. 
Paul E. Charleton, '29, Lakewood, Ohio, was the victim of an automo­bile accident on Februarj' 8. 
PERSONALS 
1897 ^*^'- •'• •*• MacNamara, St. Joseph's 
Sanitarium, Mt. Clemens, Mich. 
1898 'Wl's™ C. Kegler, 9th and Sycamore ' Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
1899 !'•"• Joseph F. Duane. 418 Jefferson 
**'"'*' Blvd., Peoria, 111. 
1900 J°'"> ^ - Esseman, Old First Bank Bide., Ft Wayne, Ind. 
1901 Joseph J. Sullivan, 1300, 139 N. Oark St., Chicago, HI. 
1902 C. C. Mitchell, 110 S. Dearborn St., Box 3. Chicaso, 111. 
1903 Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. Bide-, Milwaukee, Wis. 
1904 Robert Proctor, Monger Bldg., Elk­hart, Ind. 
14n<i Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSalle St. ^'^ ^ Chicago. 111. 
Word comes from the home of Earl 
F. Gruber,. Frankfort, Indiana, that he has been seriously ill. 
190fi Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen •*"* " Bldg., Spokane, Wash. 
1907 ^^ ' Thomas E. Burke, C. S. C, No­tre Dame, Ind. 
1908 Frank X. Cull, Bulklcy Bldg., Cleve­land, Ohio. Rev. Joseph J. Boyle, C.S.C, presi­dent of Portland University (Oregon 
— formerly Columbia), is convales­cing from a very serious operation. Father Boyle, who has been at Port­land since 1934, made countless friends as a member of the Mission 
Band, particularly with the Lay Re­

Before 1880 ^S"-'^'''^ ^-<^.^'^­
her, Fitchburc, Mass. 
1880-1885 ^™^- ^tiert M. Anderson. 
Circleville, Ohio 
1886 *^»chael O. Burns. 338 S. Second St,. Hamilton. Ohio 
1887"1888 ^°^^ ^ Heincman. Conners­
ville. Indiana. 
* 
1889 ^- ^- B"^'''- 30^ Camp St., New Or­
leans, La. 
1890-1893 '^"'^ ^- '^<'^-'^ University 
Ave.. Minneapolis, Minn. 
1894 ^"^^ •*• O'Donaell, 1 W. 67t3i St. New York City. 
.* 
1895 Eustace Cullinan, Sr., 860 Fhelan 
* " ** Bide., San Francisco, Calif. 
* ICge •William p. Bums. 327 Willard Ave., ^""^ Michican City, Ind. 
treat on the Notre Dame campus. 
1909  ^ ' ^- Cleary, Notre Dame, Ind.  
*  
1910  ^^^­ ^  - ^­  Moriarty,  1900  Euclid  
Ave.,  Cleveland, Ohio.  

1Q11 Fred Steers, 163S First National *"* * Bank Bldg., Chicago, m. 
1Q19 B. J. Kaiser. 324 Fourth St., Pitts­*"* * burgh. Pa. 
1Q1 ^ James J. Devitt, 921 Engineers Bldg., **'** ' Qevcland, Ohio. A petition for candidacy for Con­gress from the Third Indiana district was obtained recently for Floyd O. Jellison, prominent South Bend at­torney and leader in veterans activi­ties. 

1914 r^n' ' H. Hayes. 406 Bank of Amer­ica Bid;;., Anaheim. Calif. 
1915 ^^'"^ ^ Sanford, 1524 Farwell Ave.,
Chicago, m. 

George Shuster, '15, has recently been elected vice-president of the Stamford Catholic Action Society, Stamford, Connecticut. 
1916 Timothy P. Galvin. First Trust Bids-Hammond. Ind. 
1 417 Edward J. McOsker, 104 S. Union St.. Elgin. IIJ. 
1918 •'°'"' •*• Lemmer. 1110—Sth Ave.. S.. Escanabn, Mich. Veiy attractively so, the call for a meeting of the stockholders and di­rectors of the Centli\'re Brewing Cor­poration issued recently, sounds like a Notre Dame Club meeting. John L. Reuss as secretary issued the notice. Charles J. Reuss is president. Frank Centlivre is vice-president, and Carl Centlivre is treasurer. 
* 

1919 Elder G50 Pierce Street.
Clarence Bader, Gary, Ind. 
* 

1920 ^ ° ^-•^^"rf-•d. 1S121 Black Bids., Los 
Anffelcs. :alif
Calif. 

1921 Aldcn J. Cusick, 1 Park Ave., New York City. Students who remember the pop­ular fellow student who doubled as professor in the College of Arts and Letters, Joseph Rafter, who came back to N.D. for a long-awaited J.D. in 1930, will be pleased to learn that Joe has received signal recognition in Pennsylvania. The state superin­tendent of instruction there through Governor Earle, has named him di­rector of the state library and mu­seum at Harrisburg. Joe has a brilliant educational background, is a member of the state bars of Pennsylvania and New York, is a World War veteran with decora­tions from the Greek government, and holds degrees from Notre Dame, Villanova, Columbia Univei-sity, and St. John's College. The press of Pennsylavnia has been uniform in its praise of Joe's appointment. Alfred Slaggert continues his bril­liant forensic career in his home state of Michigan. Al presided at an Italo-Ethiopian forum of the Detroit Phi­losophical Society January 30, and spoke at a father and sons banquet at St. Edward's Church there on Febi-uaiy 9. Catholic Action! 
1922 Gerald Ashe, Buffalo Athletic Qub, **"" • Buffalo, New York. Here's the welcome Kid again! He reports as follows: Judd Hylan in addition to operat­ing the Metropolitan Dry Goods Com­pany of Penn Yan, New York, is Manager of the WPA in Yates Coun­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ty. When last interviewed, Judd was busily engaged in directing the build­ing of a bird sanctuary in the vicin­ity of Penn Yan. 
Early in February, Father George Fischer, C.S.C., who is now a mem­ber of the Holy Cross Mission Band, conducted a novena at Our Lady of Lourdes Church, Rochester, New York. 
Frank Reese is now at North Car­
olina State University assisting Hunk 
Anderson in the coaching of football. 
John Meehan is with the Engineer­
ing Department of the citj' of Sche­
nectady, New York. 
It has been some time since we had news of Paul Mulcahy, but we finally got the "low-down." Paul is con­nected with the sales department of the Associated Gas and Electric Com­pany, and is loacted in Auburn, New York. 
Our old friend Bill Daly is Detroit manager for the Worthington Pump Company. 
The February ALUMNUS carried the good news that Congressman Worth Clark of Boise, Idaho is prom­inently mentioned as candidate for governor of his state. We always ex­pected that Worth would be able to make his way in this busy world, and now we are more than pleased to see him well on his way. 
John Paul Cullen was recently ele­vated to the position of legal consult­ant to the Board of Veterans Appeals. Formerly J. P. was in the Field Divi­sion of the Veterans Bureau. 
-A.nother Notre Dame man who is doing well in the Veterans Bureau is Jim Hayes. A few-weeks ago, Jim was appointed assistant solicitor. 
Men of '22 will be pleased to hear that Judge Al Scott was recently elected presiding municipal court judge in Los .4ngeles. When we consider that there are 30 municipal judges in Los Angeles, it is quite an honor and responsibility for friend -Al. Recently one of the Los .4.ngeles newspapers devoted much space to a feature storj' about the friendly rival­ry which has existed for over 40 years in the Scott and Dockweiler families, both so well known to Notre Dame men. It is interesting to know that Al in his contest for presiding municipal judge just barely defeated George Dockweiler for the position. Al's father, the renowned Joseph Scott, is a prominent lawyer and a Republican in politics. Isadore Dock­weiler, George's father, is also a prominent lawyer. He is just as staunch a Democrat as Joe Scott is a Republican, being at one time a democratic candidate for U. S. sen­ator. The elder Scott is a wonder­ful orator, and it was he who placed in the nomination the name of Her­bert Hoover at the last republican national convention. The sons of 
177 

these men, Al and George, are con­nected with the same political paities as are the fathers. 
In addition to the Kid's informa­tive notes, the Eds have been hear­ing things. '22 marches on! 
Jim McCabe likes N.D. so well that he has inveigled the Illinois Central into opening an office in South Bend, the J.M.S. Building, from which the manager will handle freight and pas­senger traffic for the I.C. Puzzle: Who is the manager? 
The Class of '22 has practically taken over the Prosecutors' organiza­tion in Indiana. Ray Keams, of Terre Haute, was elected president at a meeting the first of February, and Mark Storen, of Michigan City, was elected vice-president. 
* 

1923 ^^^ Castner, White 3Iotor Company,
Cleveland, Ohio. From Paul Castner, whose job puts the gypsy in him, comes: 
John Flynn was recently made as­sistant safety director of the city of Cleveland, and his name and face are gracing the papers quite often. I saw Jack a few weeks ago and he surely looks fine. I hear from all sides that he is doing a fine job. 
John Montague was in to see me some time ago and gave me a few notes on '23 members. 
Elmer Holmberg, who has been with the American Express in many quarters of the world, was in Chicago and attended the Chicago Club lunch­eon (every Tuesday in Mandel's) in company with his brother, Bruce. Elmer has been in China and the Philippines the last four years and is returning there. He will be married on his return. 
Rodge Kiley, John tells me, is get­ting along just fine, looks exception­ally well but is having trouble with his voice. He was in Philadelphia last Fall with Mrs. Kiley and they spent an evening ^vith Mr. and Mr*. Gus Desch. I know we are glad to hear that Gus is alive and kicking, but for all we see of him you would think that he was like Elmer Holm­berg in the four comers of the globe. Rodge told him that he, John Mon­tague, Red Shea, and all the rest of the gang were "off him" for not com­ing back for one of our reunions. Gus put his head back and let one of his hearty laughs. All that I can say is that you had better make plans right now, Gus, to come back this June or we'll get serious about that "off" business. (Ed Note: Gus mast let Rodge sell him a big bill of goods, because a notice the morning this is written says he is moving to Chi­cago on March 1.) 
Let's all, '23ers, start a sinking fund right now to defray expenses for a real June Reunion. We're planning a little Friday night get-together. How about it? 
1Q9 A James F. Hayes. Win. J. Pedrick & Co.. Empire State Bids.. N. Y. C. 
I am very sorry that I have been so remiss in connection w-ith alumni notes. It seems that my business keeps me on the job every minute of the day, and I have little time to do the things that I would like to do. 
However, I just had a telephone call that stimulated me to this feeble 
effort. Tom Hodgson, of the Class of 
'24, who i-esides in Minneapolis and is one of that city's leading bankers, 'phoned me from the Waldorf-As­toria, New York, to announce the arrival of a daughter, Ann, on Jan­uary 16. Tom informed me that he felt it necessarj' to make the trip to New York in order to tell me the news, so that it would reach the ALUMNTJS. 
I informed Tom that when I sent in this note I would also inform you. that Mary Hayes, the third dminhter in the Hayes' family, arrived on Chiistmas morning—putting me one up on Hodgson, but about six or seven down on Jim Armstrong. (Ed's note: Oh, yeh!) 
At the basketball game, Friday night, I saw a great many Notre Dame men, including Tim Murphy who bumped into me at Jack Demp­sey's bar, and Tim is of a size today that when he bumps he bumps!! 
There were too many Notre Dame men in Madison Square Garden, rooting for Notre Dame, for me to enumerate them all here. The men I see most freqeuntly in New York, and who are always available for a session—either with those who are in the neighborhood or out-of-town visitors, are: Dick Reynolds, John 
McKenna, Charley DeBarry, popping 
in from Washington evei-y now and then; Ted Berkery, Bill Murphy, who is •n-ith us here in the office, Lou Smith, who is with the Paramount Picture Distributing Corporation, 
Jack Sheehan, of the '2-5 class who 
has just taken over charge of the Used Car Department of the Packard Motor Car Company, and a few others. 
Last night I did see Harry CuUen and Larry Doyle, Al Cusick, Jerry Craugh, Ed Fallon and Bill Cotter, all in a radius of about ten feet from where we were sitting. Of course, you know Ed Fallon has recently en­tered the blissful married state. 
I hope to do better in the future, but any time you want to give the '24 secretary's job to a more ambitious and active representative, go to it. I would like to hear from members of the Class of '24, if they feel the urge to write. I promise to acknowledge and answer any letters I get, and look forward eagerly to the opportunitj-. 
Jim Hayes. 
In addition to the startling letter from Hayes, the Editors noted a pic­ture in AdreHising Age for January 20, of Joe Wagner, advertising man­ager for the SchoU Manufacturing Company, Chicago, using a high-powered idea in a sales meeting of the organization devoted to better feet. 
Also a letter from Charley Ro­brecht, who has been in New Jersey these many moons, saying that Inter­national Hydro Engineering, 20 Was­senaai-scheweg, The Hague, Holland, is to be the address of the Robrecht family for the next t^vo or three years. (I doubt if our mailing ma­chine can master that street number, but I hope so, Charley, and glad to hear you're in Dutch.) 
192 5 •'•''"• '^^- Scallan. 79 E. Adams St.. 
Chicago. 111. 
John W. Scallan is retiring soon as president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, after a vei^- active and con­structive tenn in that important of-five. (This note, like most notes in this column, comes from sources other than the Class Secretary, who is the Editor's pal.) 
John A. Kelley, of Michigan Citj-, seems to be doing not only right but good by the Indiana Association of County Sui-veyors and Engineers. John was just re-elected president of the group at a meeting at Purdue. John sui-i'eys and en^neers the im­portant Michigan City-LaPoi-te area in Northern Indiana. 
192 6 !''•- Gerald W. Hayes. 96 N. Walnul 
•" " St.. East OranKC. N. J. 
Fred Steele, M.S. '26, was a ^•is­itor to the chemistry department at Notre Dame recently. Fred is •n'ith the New Jei-sey Zinc Company, at Palmerton, Pennsylvania. 
192 7 Edmund DeQerq. SllS Ellis Ave., ChicaRo, 111, 
Billy Sullivan, Jr., has been in the baseball limelight %vith his move from the Cincinnati Club to the Cleveland Indians. Bill is expected to be put behind the bat with, the Indians. 
Paul Butler is a decorative and eloquent asset of so many South Bend platforms, that no effort is made to keep ti-ack. But the Editors has the pleasure of hearing the bril­liant young attorney give a vei-y out­standing paper on Church and State before the Catholic Forum in South Bend recently that deserves mention. 
192 8 ^^"'S Buckley, 718 E. Corby St., South Bend. Ind. 
(Ed's note: Your class secretary shows here what can be done when material is available. His plea for moi-e assistance is timely, certainly. And one of the best class secretaries in the business shouldn't be allowed to languish for lack of dope.) 
Louie says: The first word that I have had from the '28 gang in Cali­fornia came in the form of an an­nouncement from Mervyn A. Aggeler to the effect that he is practicing law at 804 Block Building, Hill at Fouth Street, Los Angeles, Califor­nia. How about giving us some news, Mervyn, concerning Jo Daley, Jim O'Toole, Ed Cunningham, Ed Freitas, and John Dunne from California? 

Bert Toepp has moved to Dayton, Ohio, where he is managing an ofiice for the First Discount Corporation of South Bend. Bert's new address is Apt. 2A, 522 Grand Avenue in Day­ton. Bert mentioned that he had a nice visit with Francis Strohm a short time ago. What do you hear from your old side-kick Jack Sheedy, Bert ? 
Bill Armin left the South Bend '28 Club and the Universitj' to accept a position with the Federal Deposit In­surance Corporation at 625 Federal Reserve Bank Building in Chicago. 
I received one of those surprises that come only once in seven years of a class secretar}''s life, when my old room-mate Denny Daly came through ivith a letter. Denny didn't say much about himself, but I take it from his letter that he is practicing law at 1011 Commerce Building, St. Paul, Minnesota. He was anxious to know when Andy Mulreany is to he ordained. I believe it is to be in June, 1937. That event should bring Denny as well as the old Glee Club gang back to the campus. Mark Fitz­gerald should be ready for ordination thi-ee years later. Denny mentioned that he sees Jack Doyle once in a while. Jack, who is the proud father of two children, is with the Standard Clothing Company of Minneapolis, and Jack Hicok is now in St. Paul with the General Electric Company. 
This year's winning basketball team brought Tom Hart back to the campus to see the Kentucky game. Tom is still in the insurance business and is now located in Chicago. He said that he sees Vince Ducey there quite often. He also said that he read in the Chicago papers that Tom Walsh is athletic director of one of the big league baseball camps some­where in the South. 
Speaking of returning for games, I forgot to mention that I met Gerald Sheibly after one of the games at Notre Dame last November. He is working in New Washington, Ohio. 
Vince Carney \vrote an interesting account of his visit to Mexico. Here are some of the high spots: "Connie Ochoa met us at Guadalajara late at night and we had a talk that lasted until far into the next morning. He inquired of so many . . . Shelanskey, Kopecky, Mulligan, Griffin, and doz­ens others on down the line, both in Glee Club and out of it. He had been in Mexico since some time in 1931 and managing a large planta­tion for his father. He threatens to have a class reunion at Lake Chapalu some time in the near future." Your suggestion sounds good, Connie. This is the second inquiry I have had this month for news about Junk Shelan­skey. Will someone please come to my rescue? Vince enclosed a picture of Connie "to prove that he is still in the form that he owned while one of the potential handball champions of the old campus." 
If you enjoyed reading about some of the classmates whose names ap­peared for the first time in a long while in this column, show your ap­preciation by dropping me a line be­fore March 15 with some informa­tion for the next issue. I am going to pick five men from whom I will expect letters by that date and I hope just as many more will come through voluntarily. The five are: Joe Grif-Bn, Paul Brady, Louie Carr, John Gaughan and Charley Shelanskey. 
Christy Flanagan has resigned his coaching post at Duqusene to devote his full time to business in Texas. His successor at the Pittsburgh insti­tution, the fourth N.D. man to hold the pose, is John "Clipper" Smith. 
1929 •^°seph McNamara, 231 Wisconsin St.. Indianapolis. Ind. Returning, filled out, a prospective student card, John Donahue writes from West Allis, Wisconsin: This is my third year of teaching. Science at the West AUis Vocational School, and I have acquired most of the petty faults commonly ascribed to bachelors. My sister, Florence, and mother are keeping me well in hand, however. Charley Schutty, '29, was recently transferred to the Chicago Offices of the Allis - Chalmers Jlanufacturing Company. His tiny daughter, Pa­tricia Ann, is a joy to behold. Larry Stauder, '29, is in the Elec­trical Design Department of AUis-Chalmers here in the city. Ed Hartley, '30, is grooming him­self for a sales engineering position with the same firm. Our local club [Milwaukee] is looking fonvard to a reunion at the Marquette basketball game. 
Is there a '29 Dome in the house? An extra? Or a '29er with sou! so dead who might spare one? If so. Bob Hellrung, 306 N. Grand Blvd., St. Louis, has sent in an emergency call that we. can't answer on the campus. 
Ed Bradunas, '29, is the propri­etor of an auto accessories shop in Stamford, Connecticut. 
Brother Majella Hegarty, '29, is working for his master's degree in Teachers College at Columbia Uni­versitj- in New York City. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1930 Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St. New KensinEton. Pa. A post-card from Bemie Conroy, Burbank, California, didn't make the 31 days of sub-zero a whole lot hap­pier. But thanks anyhow, Bernie. Bernie is making the old contacts out there, which ought to give this col­umn a sun-kissed tint for the Spring. 
Students of '29-'30 who remember the dignified Greek priest from South Bend who pursued special studies here will be interested in the appoint­ment of Rev. Philotheos Mazokopakis to the bishopric of lerositias. He will be stationed in lei-apetros. 
Louis Hasley, popular as a teacher, active in poetrj-, has been doing var­ied and most commendable work in the latter field, showing remarkable -promise. Nevertheless, the ALUJINUS feels that it owes it to the friends of Lou to note his authorship of a poem in the Februai-y magazine of the Camp Fire Girls, dedicated to that organization and based on the seven 
points of the Camp Fire Girls' law. 
Cesare Janesheski, coach of the tri­umphant St. Hedwige football team of South Bend, has been feted almost continuously since the season closed. St. Hedwige's own recent banquet was probably the outstanding testi­monial to the team and its youthful coach. Joseph Boland, '27, was toast­master, and ci^^c and religious lead­ers swelled the crowd of admirers of the winning eleven. 
1931 ^"^^ ^- Boland. 1J02 Linden St., 
Scranton. Pa. 

Something new and significant oc­curred recently when Frank T. Flynn, 
M.A. '31, member of the faculty of the Universitj-, was appointed execu­tive director of the South Bend Com­munity Fund, Inc. Mr. Flynn has had considerable experience in field work in the social sciences besides his teaching background. He is also a member of the national youth admin­isti-ation ad\-isory committee in In­diana. 
Tom Cody, '31, has received his 

M.D. (Febi-uaiy '35) from Long Is­land University, and is interning in a Bridgeport, Connecticut hospital. 
Toby Malin, '31, is a Ford sales­man in Stamford, Connecticut. 
Joe Martin, '31, is teaching high school in Stamford, Connecticut. 
Francis D'Nuhala, '31, is chief probation officer in Windham County, Connecticut. Fran was a member of the first probation class of N. D. 
1Q^2 Herbert Giorgio. SOOS 188th St.. Hol­lis. L. I., New York. 
Jack Harrison, LL.B. '32, is social­ly active in Stamford, Connecticut, and has distinguished himself in the v.'ay of sailing. 
Brother Canian Conway, '32, is working for his master's degree in Teachers College at Columbia Uni­versity in New York City. 
1933 I)<>°^<3 ^Vi^- 11" Pleasant St., Jo­liet. m. A bit of information in re: the class of '33. 
John Baldwin, the flashy guard and captain of the basketball squad of '32 and '33, is a representative of the Fidelity Mutual Life Insurance Com­pany. His office is located at 111. 
W. Washington Street, Chicago. 
Joe Kirincich passed the Illinois Bar exam in December and will be associated with the firm of Wise, Duffy, and Wise, 604 Joliet National Bank Bldg., Joliet,.Illinois, after Feb­ruary 13, on which date he will re­ceive his license from the Illinois Supreme Court. 
Maury Lee also was successful in the bar exam and at the present is located at 8313 Merrill Ave., Chi­cago, Illinois. 
I understand that Bill Burke has his own law office in Portsmouth, Ohio. 
Joe. McCabe is associated with Stasny and Loy in the legal profes­sion at 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. 
Pat Crowley is attending law school in Chicago and is w^orking for the Chicago Title and Trust Company. 
Jack Jaeger is working for the Real Silk Hosiery Mills in Minnesota. 
Jack O'Shaughnessy is attending law school at Kent College and will secure his degree this semester. 
George Rohrs is now a statistician in New York and big things are ex­pected from him on Wall Street. Roger McGovem, alias "McCutch," informs me that George will middle-aisle it soon. 
Frank McGee is making rapid strides as a bank examiner in New York state. 
Leslie Raddatz, former editor of the Dome, who received his M.A. in 1934 from the University of North Carolina, has just been made Director of Public Relations for the W.P.A. for the northeastern section of North Carolina, with headquarters at Fay­etteville. North Carolina. 
Don Wise. 

In a fine letter from Rochester, New York, Pete Connelly tells of his association with a Rochester law of­fice since his graduation from the Albany law school last June. 
14^4 James Moscow, 2320 N. Lawndale 
•'^" ^ Ave., Chicago. HI. 
A most interesting note from Carl Makarski, B.S. '34, a second year medical student at Creighton: In my class are Robert Lane, B.S. '29, -who was president of the class in his freshman year. Also there is James Cashman, who attended Notre Dame in 1928-29. In the present freshman 
class there are George Harrison, '33, 
of Ashland, Wisconsin, and Robert Gushing, who attended Notre Dame in 1931-33, before transferring to the Creighton Arts College. 
Walt Kennedy, '34, is doing social work in Stamford, Connecticut. 
Al Panello, '34, is a chemist with Crawford-Knapp in Connecticut. 
Jim Ross, '34, who with his Dad, runs the Koss tavern at 51st street and 6th avenue in New York City, is establishing an unofficial Notre Dame headquarters there with a register for the N.D. men to sign. Any Notre Dame man visiting the "big town" can find it easily as it is across the street from Radio City. 
IQ^ e Franklyn C. Hochreiter, 722 Livinff­i *'•'•' ston hall. Columbia tiniv., N.Y. City. 

Again our appreciation and con­gi'atulations to the ideal class secre­tary, the boy who shows 'em all the right way to do the job. Continuing his unfailingly thorough and interest­ing writing, Hoch says: 
Before spreading the scandal on the '35ers for the current months, we think the "top notch" position should be duly assigned to Joe Becek, now Council President Becek. After read­ing the supplement to our last com­ments, we believe that Joe deserves the felicitations of the class ^\^th the best of wishes for success. 
Prom the hearty cooperation we received during the past few weeks, the '35 column will return to its own this month—vre hope. 
There was the N.D.-N.Y.U. game on the 14th. N.D. was all over the court and all over N.Y.U. to such an extent that the "big town" boys didn't know whether they should "punt" or throw a basket. From our seat we saw no one but Bob Rogers and CliSF Welsh, but after­wards at Koss' Tavern, we ran into Jim Reville and Bill Tourney. Bill Miller never showed up to our knowl­edge. At Ross' we did see a lot of the N.D. men of earlier years—'30 to '34—among them were: Hugh De­vorc, Pat Troy, George O'Brien, Red Forrest, Bill Shells, Bill Powell, Frank Honerkamp, Ray Troy, Maur­ice Regante, Sabby Addonizio, Ed Sargus, Andy O'Keeffe, Walt Ken­nedy, Art Magher, Dan Boick, John McQuade, Pete Queen and Gil Coyne. 
Our greetings go to John Clark, who recently married Eleanor Rus­sell. John is really going to have his hands full now with a wife, a job in the County Assessor's office during the day and law school at DePaul at night. 
Quite a few letters have come through lately. Art Korzeneski, for one, writes that he is still in politics. At the convention of the Polish Stu­dents Association of America held in Milwaukee in December, Art was elected National President for two years. What with running the Polish Students Association and the Loyola Student Government, the "fair­haired" boy from Chi is going to take off a little weight the next two years. Of course a little matter like law school won't interfere with Art's social and political schemes. 
Art says also that Jack Gainer, re­cently reported as attending Wash­ington University law school, is find­ing it "really tough." 
We are told that Frank Koppel­berger is working in Toledo, Ohio. Our agent says, "he's finally begun to take the world seriously, has a good job and is completely interested in it." It must be Koppie's wife that has exerted the steadying influence. You know he has been in the bonds of wedlock for over a year now. (Surprise Frank, but—our best!) 
Another letter came through from Tom LaLonde way out in Champaign, Illinois. Tom, as you know, is on the road for a shoe firm and is covering seven states in the Mid-West. (A note for Jerry Foley from Tom— "You might be interested in knowing that the firm has just annexed a com­plete line of Authentic Shirley Tem­ple Shoes. How about some moral support?") From Tom we received the following valuable dope: 
John "Gunner" McGrath is work­ing for his Dad in the local bank in Sedalia, Missouri. We are told that the wild stories "Gunner" used to tell about the "home town" must be true from the looks of the place. 
Bob Byrnes is working in Killian's Department store in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. (After you leave Harvard, "Duke," you might try Cedar Rapids. Bob should have influence.) 
We finally have the name of the concern employing Carl Esser. He is with the Pictorial Paper Box Com­pany of Aurora, Illinois. 
Swinging along with Carl is Frank McGuire, also in the Illinois city. Frank is reported as doing well sell­ing Electrolux cleaners. 
Bill Bernbrock is supervising a mammoth sewer construction feat, we believe in the same town, and is having a royal time bossing his gang. 
"The Conecticut boy who made good in the windy city," George De­metrio, has just received another i-aise, we hear, and is continuing up the ladder as chief contact man for the Palmer House. 

Another of Notre Dame's "golf course trustees," Bob Donahue, is working in his father's office at the Wabash Screen Door Company. The wires tell us that he already has his own mahogany desk. 
Bob Scott, it comes to our ears, has a position lined up with Inter­national Harvester at Lincoln , Nebraska. 
Though it is not definite, we have been informed that Jack Pendergast is working for Marshall Field's in Chicago. (Hope we got it straight. Jack.) 
As the months go by we gradually are coming to the conclusion that somewhere around fifty per cent of the class of '35 are in law school. Here are a few more embryo Black-stones who chose Michigan as their "house of pain:" Herb Nadeau, Ray Brett, John Kavanaugh, John Bren­nan. Norm Fredericks, Tom Thomp­son and John Allen. 
The meticulous "little fella" from Walsh, Mart Hendele, dropped us a line a short time back. Mart is "the loss department" of an insurance department" of an insurance agency in Chi. 
We have welcomed to the gi'owing ranks of N.D. men at Columbia two newly enlisted victims this session— Ed Kirby and Jim McAveney. Ed is enrolled in Teachers College and Jim in the Business School. Both have paid us visits within the last couple weeks. Jim, who is attending night class twice a week, is working for Interborough News during the day. 
Word has reached us that Jerry Dorn, ex. '35, is finishing up at St. John's law school this June. Also, attending the same institution and imbibing the legal pearls are Ray Neary, ex. '35, and John Lively. 
Andy Maffei called US one evening but we were not available. Our able assistant took the message and it dis­closed that Andy also is a patron of St. John. The last we heard he was working for some petroleum firm here in the city. Perhaps he still is during the day and is attending school at night. (Drop in and give us the dope some time, Andy.) 
Since our last bit of "whispering" went to press, Bob Carter and Ed Oiiara have returned to find us at home. From them we have news con­cerning several of the New England contingent. 
Ray Shea is working for the Public Health Service in Springfield, Massa­chusetts. With Ray is Lou "Lefty" Dunn. Lou has been out of work until recently but is now devoting himself to the interests of society, 
Al Costello is scheduled to get a card from an "Ex'35er" to the effect that Bill Heam, ex. '35, and John Hallberg are located in Spencer, Iowa, where they have organized an all-colored basketball team and are touring the Mid-West this winter and booking out of the Iowa town. 

Gene O'Reilly, we are told, is em­ployed by R. H. Macy Company in the city. 
Jack Baker, "the gentleman from the South," is attending the Univer­sity of Kentucky in Lexington, his home town. What course he is study­ing is not known. — (We wonder if it is law!) [Ed's note, per. the Cooney Coffee Club: yes J 
We have only two more potential Cardozo's to report—^they are Bob Lannon, ex '35, and Frank Sinnot. Bob left us in the FaU of '34 to take up his legal studies at Albany law school, and Frank is pondering "The Restatement of the Law" at Ford­ham. 
Our congratulations go to Art O'Neil and his wife on the birth of a daughter, Anne Maureen. Art is with the Chevrolet Company in In­dianapolis. 
That about concludes our "Win­chelling" for this month. If we have erred in our comments, we trust that you will forgive us and will drop us a note so that we may "make the crooked straight." 
Our sincere gratitude to those who have aided us in our attempt to "con­vey the inside story on the gang." 
On campus. Director Thomas Proc­tor of the National -Association, says: 
Franklyn C. Hochr«iter writes a lengthy but mighty interesting mis­sile from his quarters (?) in Living­ston Hall, Columbia. He chides us for failing to write. In answer to that our law exams were plenty tough too, Hoch. But we want to take this opportunity to congratulate you for your splendid work as Class Secretary. May the Class of '35 carrj' on! 
Seen at a bit of a dance at St. Mary's College, February 7: 
Bill Lord, all the way from Pitts­burgh, Bill has a job in Chicago coming up. 
Bill Caen, who broke through the Iowa snow drifts to arrive. 
Gerry Doyle, who said the sub-zero weather wouldn't stop him. Gerry spent two days on the campus alter­nating his sleeping quarters between brother Paul, '36, in good old Walsh, and Bob Simmons, '35, in Morrissey Tower, where Simmons, Tombragel, Graves and Crowley, all '35, are back for graduate work. 
Ex-roomie Ray Oalces dropped in from Canton, Ohio, enronte to Chi-try-out with the Washington Senators of the American League in the early Spring. 
The conscientious Pramingham, Massachusetts, plugger, Frank Ryan, is with a concern in South Bend and has already made a splendid contri­bution to one of their machines, in the way of a time-saving device, 
Phil Heinle is attending Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, New Jersey. 
A short time ago we received a belated Christmas card from Fred Stanley who is now out on the coast in San Francisco. Fred volunteered nothing definite but we believe he is using his knowledge of Journalism to no small advantage. (How about a letter, Fred?) 
Early last month we were pleas­antly surprised with a phone call from Jim Cronin of Chicago. We managed to spend a week-end to­gether taking in the metropolitan sites. Jim is in town pursuing a three-month sales course with the American Radiator Company, all ex­penses paid. 
We were graced with another caller a short time back when Jack Ed­wards dropped in for a chat. Jack is endeavoring to establish himself with the sales force of a national air line. 
Two moi-e of the class of '35 who are nursing the anticipation of be­corm"ng eminent Jurists are Orland Yates and Bill Schroeder. The former is working for the government in Washington while attending George­town and the latter is taking law at Georgia. 
Jim O'Mera is evidently looking for a Wisconsin "milk maid" as he is employed in the sales department of a dairy company in the native state. 
-•Vnother westerner who has found an opening is Ken Brown, ex. '35. Ken is with Johns-Manville Company, manufacturers of insulation, in Butte, Montana. 
Ed Skeehan has joined the Inger-soU-Rand Pneumatic Tool Company in Athen, Pennsylvania. 
Having abandoned the domestic employment of his father. Bob Gan­non is now in the credit department of the Associated Gas and Electric Company here in the city. 
Al Weil is at present working for the Casualty Insui-ance Company, but is in the market for a new job. 
The "art prodigy" Jerry Doyle, is working on the other side of the fence now. Jerry is employed by a Commercial Moving Picture firm in Chicago. To date we hear he has not been photographed above the wrist. From that, one might gather that he is in the production end of the business. 
Some time back we received a 

EIJHER LArcEN TOUR h, tke €LyMPIC GAMCX 
Sailing S. S. CMorman^te ^niij t^in, ^93^ 
^isllbu, FRANCE, CELeiUM, SWITZERLAND, eCR>4ANr, ITALr, ENGLAND an? 
IRELAND 
ii/or celaiUd tttformallan tipplif io 
ELMER LATDEN 
390 NORTH MICHIGAN 
or attij French £inc or 

 OLTMRIC HEACCUARTER^ 
 AVENUE - CHICAGO. ILt-INOIS 
'C^hoi, Gook and So a office 
cago.  Ray likes working for Sears,  as K. LaLonde dropped in for one of  
Hoebuck.  his "off the record" visits late in Jan- NOTRE DAME LAWVERS  
Living Endiwment Director Thom­ uarj-. He failed to sell your Direc­tor any shoes, but left some info  

"Insurance Careers for College Graduates' 
THIS booklet, published by The Penn Mutual Life Insur­ance Company, explains the advantages life underwriting offers to the college graduate at the present time. It covers these topics.: 
FINANCIAL OPPORTUNITIES THE COMPANY'S FIXED COMPENSATION PLAN QUALIFICATIONS 
You may obtain the booklet with no obligation from: 
NATIONAL COLLEGIATE PERSONNEL BUREAU TKE PENN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Independence Square, Philadelphia 
NEWS-WEEK 
KEEPS YOU 
THOROUGHLY INFORMED 
ACCURATE . UNBIASED 
THE PERFECT BALANCE 
OF WORD & PICTURE 
NEWS-WEEK 
gathered from, his miles of travel. I found out later that he had sent Hoch much of the same dope. Tom tried to see Joe Kaley in Pontiac, but missed him. Joe is working for the collection department of the Com­mercial Credit Company. 
Seen in the Notre Dame cafeteria January 31: Jerry Cushing. 
Bob Maher is doing graduate work in the Georgetown Medical School. Matt Winkel writes from Stam­ford, Connecticut, Halpin Avenue, 
R.P.D. 2, that he is liking a job -ivith the Stamford Rolling Mills. 
Bo also, obviously, Pat Qui^Iey thinks his job fairly nice •ivith the Walsh Distilleries. Pat writes from 127 E. High St., Lawrenceburg, Ind. 
LAYDEN IN AURORA 
The banquet given for the football team of Marmion Prep School, Au­rora, Illinois, on Thursday, February 6, was an immense success, according to Clarence J. Ruddy, '27, who took a leading part in planning the affair. 
"We ser\'ed more than 425 people," says Clarence. "Alumni were here from Elgin, Ottawa, Elmhurst and Dixon. They all enjoyed the pro­gram and were glad of the opportun­ity to mingle with one another. We met at Hotel Aurora before the din­ner and had a veiy satisfactory re­union. Elmer Layden gave an ex­cellent address; the remarks of Sher­wood Dixon were also well received. In addition to the people served there was a further audience of about 100 cadets. The banquet was about the best attended of any held in Aurora in recent years. The occasion fur­nished excellent publicitj' for Mar­mion—and for Notre Dame, too. 
"Most of the cit}- officials were present and so were officers of Kane Count}' and counties nearby. His Excellency, Bishop Hoban of Rock­ford Diocese, attended. Many other clergymen were also there. All were delighted at the splendid attendance and enjoyed the speeches extremely. After the banquet Elmer very kindly autographed the menus of boys who brought them up to him. He was verj' patient in doing this, and I know that the boys will treasure his auto­graph for many years." 
KERVICK ELECTED 
Francis W. Kervick, head of the Department of Architecture of the University, was elected first vice-president of the Indiana chapter, American Institute of Architects, at the recent annual convention in In­dianapolis. The Indiana Society of Architects meeting at the same time elected a successor to Callix E. Mil­ler, '21, of South Bend, as president. 

• The following are for addition to the lists of lawyers which appeared in the December, January and Feb­ruarj' issues of the ALUMN'US. 
ALABA5LA. Montgomery Yung, John A., A.B. '25 First National Bank Bldg. 
CALIFORNIA Los Angeles Aggeler, Mervyn A., B.S.C.E. '28 804-810 Black Bldg. 
ILLINOIS Chicago McCabe, Jos. A., A.B. '33, LL.B. '35 Stasny and Loy, 10 S. LaSalle St— 
Schiavone, Leo V., A.B. '32 4001 Sheridan Rd. (bus.) 8336 Drexel Ave. (res.) 

Joliet Kirincich, Jos. V., A.B. '33, LLB.'So Wise, Duffy and Wise, 604 Joliet Nat'l. Bank Bldg. 
INDIANA Crown Point Schwartz, Benjamin X., LL.B. '30 East Chicago Esola, Charles J., LL.B. '30 3414 Michigan Ave. 
lOW.A. Mason City Mason, Michael L., A.B. '29 625 LO.O.F. Bldg. Waverly Leslie, Humphrey L., LL.B. '20 204 S. State St. 
MASSACHUSETTS Lynn Roy, James C, A.B. '29 
MICHIGAN 

Flint Roth, Stephen J., Ph,B.For.Com. '31 723 Union Industrial Bldg. 3001 St. John St. (res.) 
MINNESOTA Crookston Svlvestre, Joseph H., 
A.B. '16, LL.B. '18 Marin Block 411 E. Robert St. (res.) 

Glencoe O'Hara, Joseph P., LL.B. '20 S t Paul Daly, Dennis D., A.B. '28 1101-1104 Commerce Bldg. NEW YORK Brooklyn Burke, Joseph P., A.B. '25 947 Broadway 617 Macon St. (res.) Burke, Thomas A., A.B. '26 947 Broadway 617 Macon St. (res.) 
MASTER OE LUXE SPORT SEDAN 

. . . across this page and then across town in the 
NEW 1936 CHEVROLET 
NO DRAFT VENTILATIOIV TURRET TOP HIGH-COMPRESSION ENGINE Take a ride in the new Chevrolet for 1936. Next, examine the Solid Steel one-piece Now start Chevrolet's High-Compression Notice, first of all, the greater beauty, Turret Top. Tiiis top puts the safety of Valve-in-ffead Engine. The most economi­hixnr}- and more Iiealthful comfort of its solid seamless steel over your head . . . cal of all fine power plants. Notice bow Turret Top Body with Fislier No Draft stifTens and reinforces the entire body much quicker this new Chevrolet is oa Ventilation. It's the smarter, safer body structure . . , beautifies and identifies the the getaway, how much livelier in traffic^ and, of course, it's exclusive to Cliev*roIct modern car . . . and it, too, is exclusive how much smoother and more satLsfyin*; in its price range. to Chevrolet in its field. in all ways on the open road. 
KNEE-ACTION RIDE* SHOCKPROOF STEERING* PERFECTED HVDR.4UUC BR.4KES Give particular attention to the unmatched Notice, too, how perfectly steady and Now step on Chevrolet's Neio Perfected smoothness of the gliding Knee-Action vibrationless tha steering wheel is at all Hydraulic Brakes, as lightly or firmly as Ride*. The safest, steadiest, most com­times. How much simpler and easier it is you please, and bring the car to a smootii, fortable ride ever developed. It's obtain­to drive and park this car. That's due to quick, even stop. You've never fell such able only icith Knee-Action, and Knee-Shockproof Steering*, a direct result of super-safe brakes before, and won't today Action is also exclusive to the Jfasler Knee-Action, anti another exclusive Chev­anywhere else, for they're exclusive to De Luxe Chevrolet in its field. rolet advantage. Chevrolet in its price range. 
CHEVROLET MOTOR COMl'ANY. DETKOIT, MICIIICAIM 
*Acailahle in Master Dc Luxe models only. Knee-Action, $20 additional 
\j NEW JIOKEY-SAVIXG G..M.A.C. TI.ME I'AY.MENT PLAN / U Compere Cherrolet's totr ilrticereil pricn and talc manlhly paymmts. 
ONE RIDE AND YOU'LL NEVER BE SATISFIED UNTIL YOU OWN 
A CETiERAL. MOTORS VALUE 

..they're mild and vet 
'•i^JT'iiVv.-i I-i-ri' / 

© I93fi, LIGGETT & M\IKS TOBACCO CO. 








