The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
IMHHHMHiilHa 
LU 
< 
O^ 
o o 
> 
CO 


UJ > 
S6c 
Notre Dame 


ALUMNUS 
TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, PH.B., '16 Devoted Alumnus President of the Alumni Association Supreme Director, Knights of Columbus Eminent Attorney and Orator 
^^'«;^5^ 
November, 1934 
The 1<lo t T e 'Dame cA lumnus November, 1934 
CCA4HENT 
Radio waves have controlled the direction of cars, ships, planes, etc., without the aid of human hands. 
The direction of the Notre Danie Alumni Association is in somewhat similar vein now. • 
The waves of the depression over­whelmed us financially. Many paths that seemed attractive—and sKU seem so—^were closed, like the path through the Red Sea to the pursuing Egyp­tians, by the flood of adversity. 
But as the by-ways closed, the one unifying highway opened wider. 
Service to the University has been the keynote of alumni associations from the first call in 1868, in the case of Notre Dame, to the present. Ser­vice to members and mutual benefits were essentially by-products of this generous virtue. 
But as the depression cut down the benefits to members, it increased the need, and fortunately increased the opportunity, for the principal plank in the organization platform, service to Notre Dame. 
Therefore, our history this several years past has been one of reliance upon the financial supplement of the University, which, however, we have returned an interest upon in the form of service and organized, articulate loyalty (to use a popular designa­tion). 
So, while you may not hear much from the presidential chambers of the Association; while the Editor may be confined to a large portion of routine; and while the treasury continues to sufl'er a most pernicious financial 
'. anemia—^the Association continues a definite, even rapid, progress, con­trolled by those radioactive forces that have always worked for our progress, though in normal times through human agents. 
Bills have been mailed as in the happy days of yore. No veneer, no mitigating statements. We believe 
BULLETIN 
It ii the wi»h of the new ad­ministration o{ the University that the Alumni OHice continue the work of contacting prospec­tive students which the alumni bandied so atly in the several communities last year. 
The Office therefore, as last year, becomes merely the ma­chinery for the good will, loyal­ty and activity of the alumni which it was created to repre­sent. 
It asks that alumni every­where take the steps which were outlined in last year*$ program to see that their community is informed adequately, particu­larly the school people — stu­dents and teachers—regarding the academic side of Notre Dame. Co-operation from the Alumni Office will be available as last year, with hoped-for improvements. 
that our infringement upon the in­dulgence of the University, no matter how satisfied Notre Dame may be with the results, is difBcult to justify in the face of economic recovery. While we do not pretend to believe that all our members are happily or profitably employed, we bring up again those time-worn contentions that we still hold to be most moder­ate— five dollars, the annual dues, represent very little drain on any form of income. We maintain that one-third, just 1/3, of our members, paying dues, would support us in our fundamental activities. Surely not more than two-thirds of the Associa­tion are economically below the abil­ity to contribute five dollars annually for actual values that more than re­pay the investment, and potential values that can't be interpreted in money terms. 
What we want to do, so that the Association can be a real asset to Notre Dame, is to continue the high type of service and the deeply appre­ciated work that the organization has accomplished during these troublous times, and at the same time, support our own department financially. 
At the present time, we resemble a bit too literally, the come-ons who sit on the Chinatown busses or stand in front of medicine shows and readily subscribe their half-dollar, knowing that it vrill be returned at the close of the trip, or show. 
Of course it's the same old moan. It's the same old misery, friend. 


THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION of The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
District 1. District 2. District 3. District 4. District 5. District 6. District 7. District 8. District 9. District 10. District H . District 12. District 13. District 14. District IS. District 16. District 17. District 18. 

DISTRICT GOVERNORS 
Timothy P. Galvin, *16, Hammond, Indiana James H. Brennan, '20, Gbica^, Illinois Rev. M. L. lloriarty. '10, Qeveland, Ohio Daniel Coughlin, '22, "Waseca. Minn, Joseph F. Sanford, '21, Muskegon, Michigan John Purcell, '26, Fanwood, New Jersey William A. Daunt, '08, Long Island City. New York Leo Kelley, '22.Syracuso. New York Charles Grimes, '20, Providence, Khodc Island Forest Fletcher, *12, Lc:cington, Va. Matthew M. O'Brien, '31. Tampa, Fla. Edward H. Pfeiffer. '22, Louisville. Kentucky Robert Evans, Jr., '28, Vicksburg, Mississippi James P. Swift, '24, Dallas, Texas Edgar F. Moran, '17, Tulsa, Oklahoma 
R. Gerald Jones, '22, Dixon, Illinois . Thomas C. Kasper, '21, Brookings, South Dakota Robert Fox, '01, Denver Colorado District 19. James H. Bach, '07, San Diego, California 
District 20. Keene Filspatrick, '13. San Francisco, California 
District 21. James L. Hope, '11. Astoria. Oregon 
District 22. Louis P. Harl, '16. Paris. France 
ALUMNI BOARD 
FEANK C. WALKEH, '09---------- Honorary President TIMOTHY P. GALVXN, *16 ------------- President BEEXARD J. VOLL, '17---------- First Vice-President GRATTAN T . STANPOED, '04-------- Second Vice-President JASIES E. ARMSTBONG, '25--------- Secretary-Treasurer WiLUAM R. DOOLEV, '26---------- Assistant Secretary ROBERT E. LYNCH, '03 -------------- Director HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94------------- Director FKED L. STEERS, 'il. -------------- Director JAUES E. DEERY, '10--------------- Director 
M. HARRY MILLER* '10----------(ex officio) Director JAMES S. KEARKS. '34----------(one year) Director 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E. ARiiSTRONC. '25, The mainizinc is published monthly durinp the scholastic year by the Alumn: Association Atember of the American Editor Alumni Council. 
of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of ^^5.00 include 
a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 
WILLIA3I R. DOOLEY, '26. Member of Nat'l. Catholic 
1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1S79. All Associate Editor correspondence should be addressed to The Notre D.ime Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. Alumni Federation 
VOL. XIII NOVEMBER, 1934 No. 2 
NOTRE DAME STANDS FOR BASIC PRINCIPLES 
The text of a talk delivered by the Rev. John F, O'Hara, C.S.C., President of the University, over Radio Station WKBF, Indianapolis, on August 7. 
This is a centennial year for the Catholic Church in Indiana. At a brilliant assembly in Vincennes on the 6th of May, addressed by His Ex­cellency, Governor McNutt, was com­memorated the hundredth anniver­sary of the establishment of the Dio­cese of Vincennes, now Indianapolis, which included the whole state of In­diana and a large part of Illinois. It is also a centennial year for Notre Dame, for in that same year of 1834, there was established on the shores of Lake St. Mai-y the first educational institution on what is now the largest campus in the world. An orphan asy­lum was built at Notre Dame that summer by Father Badin, missionarj' to the Indians, the first priest or­dained in the United States. 
But Father Badin's temporary pro'ect was soon abandoned. In 1835 he turned the land over to Bishop Brute who hoped to use it for a col­lege. Bishop Brute's successor. Bish­op de la Hailandiere, went to France a few yeai-s later to seek volunteers to cany out this project. In response to his call. Father Edward Sorin, a young priest newly ordained, set out for America with some lay-brothers to assist him. After a year spent in southern Indiana, doing missionary work and learning English, Father Sorin and si-x: brothers came to Lake St. Mary in 1842 to begin a world-famous university with $400 in cash and an unlimited faith in God. The first ^\^nter was spent in the log cabin whi-ih Father Badin had built for an Indian chapel: the attic sen-ed as living quarters for these seven men. In the spring a brick building was erected and school began. The first student \yas Alexis Coquillard, the son of a French trader, one of the founders of the neighboring vil­lage of South Bend. The following year, January, 1844, a new main building was completed and a uni­versity charter was secured from the Indiana legislature. 
That first building still stands— surrounded and dwarfed by 40 build­ings which represent the physical plant of a great university. The phy­sical resources of the University have grown in 92 years from $400 to more than §10,000,000, and we hope that the faith in God of Father Serin's successors is as great as the founder's. 
Father Sorin lived to see the gold­en jubilee of his project. He lived to see boys come from all over the world to receive their education in the halls that his hands had raised in the %vilderness of Indiana. He saw his work live through the ravages of cholera, which decimated his faculty in 1854; he saw it thi-ough the scourge of Civil war when from his small community he sent eight priests to be chaplains for the Union army; he saw it swept away in 1879 when fire destroyed most of the buildings devoted to living quarters and class­rooms—^but his courage never failed. He sent the students home in April, and in September he called them back again to a new Notre Dame that had risen from the ashes. He laid the corneretone of the new Notre -Dame while the ruins of the old still smouldered; he took up a trowel and cleaned brick as an example to the community — and he was then 65 years old. The building they erected that summer is as large and imposing as a state capitol, and it still towers over all the other structures on the campus as a monument to the cour­age and faith of the founder. . 
Any institution that has depended so much on one man should be ex­pected to bear strongly the character­istics of that man's personality, and I beliei'e this is true of Notre Dame. Faith in God breeds sacrifice of self, and it is self-sacrifice that has built Notre Dame. The religious of Holy Cross, who conduct the school, work without salarj': what they earn goes back into the school—into buildings and equipment and into training of men for the faculty in important uni­versities all over the world. Three million dollai-s will probably cover all the gifts the University has re­ceived in its lifetime of 92 years. Its financial endowment is only a little over a million, but its endowment of flesh and blood is one of the richest any univei"sity in the world has ever known. 
You might wonder -what character­istic of Father Sorin marks the in­ward life of Notre Dame and char­acterizes its instruction. To analyze this I believe we have to go back again to his faith, and to the vision that faith gives. Father Sorin's vision reached far into the future. He built not for a day, not for a year, not for a hundred years, but for eternity— and that vision is characteristic of the University today and is of the greatest importance in its underlying philosophy. There is an organic unity to Catholic education that is missing in so many educational proj­ects today. 
At a meeting of the Institute for Administrative Oflicers of Higher In­stitutions held recently at the Uni­versity of Chicago, a prominent note sounded was a plea for a new direc­tion in education, a more socialized product of education, a broader out­look on the part of both teachers and students. As one speaker put it, "the business men who come from our schools of business and commerce are so accustomed to looking down their own solitary channel that they never see the changing conditions about them." Notre Dame has never had to worry about that condition. While she has recognized that the variety of human tastes aiid talents requires a variety of outlets, she has always stood out foi; sound training in fun­damental principles. In her College of Engineering, for example, while she has offered courses in civil, me­chanical, electrical, mining, metal­lurgical, chemical, and architectural engineering, she has stressed funda­mental principles in all of these branches far more than laboratorj' work, for laboratory work, while es­sential for an introduction to proc­esses, if overstressed, leads to the narrow vision of the myopic special­ist, and cripples a man when he faces an entirely new proposition. On the other hand, the man who is well versed in fundamental principles can study out and meet a new situation when it arrives. 
Notre Dame took a stand 15 years ago against a popular trend in uni­versity training for business, which was then a relatively new departure 
(Continued on Paffe 37) 

UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME 
A Department of News of Individual Alunin] in the Public Eye 
Dr. D. M. Nigro, '14, City Health Officer of Kansas City, Mo., has found that the blood of nearly all heat victims shows a deficiency in salt. 
Bay T. Miller, '14, former mayor of Cleveland, was made a member of the Supreme Board of Directors of the Knights of Columbus at the an­nual convention of the order in De­troit in August. Ray joins a friendly gathering in the Board which num­bers among its members Leo F. Craig, ex-'07, Sioux Falls, So. Dak., and Timothy P. Galvin, '16, president of the Alumni Association. In addi­tion, Dr. Edward W. Fahey, supreme physician, has had two sons, John and Edward at Notre Dame, and Supreme Grand Knight Carmody is an honorary degree holder. Coupled with the famous Boy Guidance course established at Notre Dame by the Order, Notre Dame and the Knights of Columbus have mutual interests which make the advent of Notre Dame men to the Board a natural thing, though the honor is appre­ciated none the less. 
Captain E. C. Giifen, director of athletics of the United States Naval Academy, was a student at Notre Dame in 1895. 
National Geographic's "Facts for Advertisers" carried the following in its August edition: 
"Harley L. McDevitt ('29), former­ly with the school advertising depart­ment of Conde Nast publications, takes charge of the Educational Di­rectory of the National Geographic Magazine on Aug^ust 1, 1934. Mr. Mc­Devitt, a g^raduate of Notre Dame, is well qualified by experience to show school heads that The Geographic audience is composed of readers ideal­ly suited culturally and financially to fill worth while schools. . ." 
National politics have involved a number of Notre Dame men in recent months. Two comparatively new fig­ures gained the public spotlight this summer with the visits of the Presi­dent and the NBA Administrator to the Middle West. In Green Bay, Wis., the President's speech was preceded by an address by John V. Diener, '09, Mayor of Green Bay, who rode with President Roosevelt in the parade. (The Presidential car, by the way, -ivas followed two cars back by a vis­iting delegation—^Elmer Layden, '25, Bill Sheehan, '25, and Joe Boland, '27.) Notre Dame entered another phase of the Green Bay Tercentenary when the monstrance used in the pag­eant celebration proved to be that once carried by Fr. Badin on his mission to Detroit. 
At the Lagoon Theater of the Cen­tury of Progress, Gen Hugh Johnson was introduced to a noverflow audi­ence by a Notre Dame man, John E. Cassidy, '17, Peoria, then Illinois Di­rector of the NR.A.. John has since resigned that distinction. 
Leroy Keach, '08, for several terms the president of the National Com­mission Merchant's association, was appointed during the summer to serve as national code director for that group. 
—ND— 
Thomas McNicholas, '29, formerly private secretary to Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, is established in Balti­more, Md., as secretary to the presi­dent of the Maryland Casualty Co. 
Several hundred friends of Hugh 

A. O'Donnell, '94, including of course a galaxy of N. D. alumni, gathered at the Commodore in New York City on June 18, to honor at a testimonial dinner a friend of long standing, closing a brilliant career with the New York Times. 
Hugh's future plans are rather in­dicated in the pleasant sketch which follows, taken from a recent maga­zine of comment: 

"What this country needs is a sec­retary of leisure!" The speaker is Mr. Hugh A. O'Donnell, who bobbed up in the Washington circles last week with a suggestion for President Roosevelt. 
Mr. Harry Ferguson of the Wash­ington Post listened while Mr. O'Don­nell explained his mission, aims, ideals, ambition and outlook on life. 
Mr. Ferguson's introductions to Mr. O'Donnell goes like this: 

"Mr. O'Donnell announced he was chairman of the national leisure time committee, and that if the govern­ment didn't cotton to his idea right away by golly he was going to set up shop anyway and start beating steel filing cabinets into mashie-nib­licks. 
"Mr. O'Donnell thinks it would be a swell idea to have the department of leisure right across the street from the department of labor. How the fur will fly when Secretary of Labor Prances Perkins, who is very busy trying to put people to work, iinds out that Mr. O'Donnell is working just as hard trying to make them loaf! 

"At first glance the advantage seems to be with Mr. O'Donnell. Miss Perkins has made surveys in every state in the union, but Mr. O'Donnell is five surveys up on her because he jumped over to Europe in his capac­ity as chairman of the leisure com­mittee and surveyed his way around the continent. 
"He also has got a complicated chart showing how the department of leisure would be organized with ser­vice bureaus, executive committees and research divisions. Miss Perkins is a bit shy on charts, but she has some dandy graphs. Personally, our favorite is the red and blue one show­ing production figures for the pig-iron industry for the fourth quarter of 1933, but it's everybody to his own taste. 
"Mr. O'Donnell has come to the conclusion that the NR.A. has left peo­ple with a lot of free time. Indirectly he frowns on using of leisure time to say "make mine the same, Mike" or "two bucks straight across the board on Cavalcade." 
"The national leisure time commit­tee has decided what we are going to be allowed to do as soon as it really gets things organized. Clip this and save it, because it may save you a jail term when Mr. O'Donnell gets in the saddle. We will be allowed to play baseball, box, wrestle (we here­by challenge Claudette Colbert, tivo best falls out of three), play tennis and golf, act in amateur plays, read, hunt, fish, take hikes and go to the movies. 
"Among the things we TOU not be allowed to do are hang around pool halls and beer gardens. At least not right away. Mr. O'Donnell says he has got to "elevate" such places first. The chart shows that the research division will have charge of the ele­vating, 
"Mr. O'Donnell is all set to go into action with a herd of "regional di­rectors, traveling demonstrators and correlating committees." If he is not too busy we would like to get a ruling on how be stands on sleeping till noon." 
JAMES J- PHELAN, MEDALIST, TRUSTEE, DIES R»dio Sta:io On Gm?us 
James J. Phelan, 63, died suddenly on Oct. 16, at his Brighton home. He was a Lay Trustee of the University of Notre Dame since 1931, leaving an unexpired term of two years in that important and ably filled post. Mr. Phelan was senior partner of the Bos­ton branch of Homblower & Weeks. 
When Homblower & Weeks was founded in 1888 by Henry Hom­blower and the late John W. Weeks the office consisted of one room in the old Merchants Exchange building, in Boston, and the staff was one em­ployee. The latter was James J. Phelan, who in 1900 was taken into the partnership. At the time of his death only Mr. Homblower ranked ahead of him among the firm's mem­bers. 
One of the most prominent Roman Catholic laymen in this country, Mr. Phelan, was awarded the Laetare medal by Notre Dame in 1931 and he was the first American to receive the rank of knight commander of the Order of Pope Pius IX. He was a charter member and master of the American chapter of the Knights of Malta which was installed in 1927. The other nine charter members of the American branch were Morgan J. O'Brien, John D. Ryan, James A. Farrell, Patrick E. Crowley, Edward 
N. Hurley, James A. Fayne, John J. Raskob, Nicholas F. Brady and Ed­ward F. Curry. Cardinal Hayes be­came protector of the chapter upon its establishment. 
Mr. Phelan was bom in Toronto and brought by his parents in 1878 to this country to attend school in Bos­ton. In 1899 he married Mary Meade, of Boston, who died in 1907. He mar­ried again in 1913. His second wife was the former Mabel J. McGaffee, of Boston, who survives. Also surviv­ing are three children by his first marriage. James J. Phelan, Mrs. Jo­seph De Vore Norton and Mrs. Henry Milton Lyons, and three children by his second marriage, the Misses Pris­cilla, Virginia M. and Patricia Col­bert Phelan. 
Mr. Phelan was a member of the Boston Stock Exchange and a director of the Maassachusetts Bonding and Insurance Co., the Union Mills, Inc., the Bangor & Aroostook Railroad, a member of the executive committee of the North East Power Association, and a trustee of the Massachusetts Utility Associates, the Boston Wharf Co., the United States Smelting, Re­fining and Mining Co., and the Suf­folk Savings Bank for Seamen. 
He was a former member of the Massachusetts Naval Brigade and a member of the executive committee of all Liberty Loan drives in Boston. During the war he was assistant food administrator of Massachusetts and executive manager of the Public Safe­ty Committee. In 1923 he was emerg­ency fuel administrator for Massa­chusetts. He also was a member of the San Francisco Relief Committee and a member of committees for re-
JAMES J. PHELAN 
Medalist and Trustee. 

lief in the Chelsea fire, the Salem fire, the Messina earthquake, and the Ohio flood. He was a member of the board of managers of the Boston Children's hospital, the Community Health Asso­ciation, the Franklin Foundation, and the Travelers Aid Society. In 1925 he received an LL.D. degree from Bos­ton College, and the Order of St, Gregory the Great from the Pope. He was a member of many clubs in New York and Boston. 
Funeral services were held Friday, Oct. 19. Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of the University, and Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C, were present representing the University. 

Beware of John P. Murphy 
Not, of coui-se, the past president and genial Cleveland leader, but a John Patrick Murphy who claims to be a personal friend of most of the recent N.D. football players, and who asks you to appreciate this by cash­ing a homeless check. He has been a pro athlete, etc., he says. He omits the fact that he has been in jail. 

Redden Heads Group 

William J. Redden, '14, was elected to succeed himself as president of the seventh district of the State Associa­tion of Wisconsin Architects at the annual meeting held Sept. 19 at the Milwaukee Builders' Exchange. 
A college of crooning will probably be announced soon as the result of the installation by WSBT-WFAM, the South Bend Tribune's radio sta­tion, of a completely equipped studio on the Notre Dame campus. The studio occupies a front room on the top floor of the John F. Gushing Hall of Engineering. 
A radio committee, headed by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, '06, is pre­paring a series of educational and entertaining programs to emanate from the campus during the year. Auditions for student talent have already been given. 
Extensions from the studio to the various points on the campus give opportunity to broadcast namerons academic and student functions. 
The studio will be an outlet for students of radio engineering as well as the talent phase. 
The "Church of the Air" Program on Sept. 30, with Father O'Hara and the Moreau Choir uno£SciaIly in­augurated the new facilities, being re­broadcast from the campus to 105 stations of the Columbia system. 
N. D. Stan -'s for Basic Principles 
(Continued from Page 35) . 

in collegiate instruction. National prominence had been given a pro­posed four year course in foreign trade work. Notre Dame pointed out that the proposed coarse contained only one semester of English, one semester of history, and that cover­ing only the last hajf-century of our civilization, and no philosophy at all. It contained a great variety of tech­nical courses in bills of exchange and bills of lading, shipping procedure and market technique—all of which, after some preliminary instruction, can best be learned in a shipping of­fice. Notre Dame insisted on a strong cultural background as the most im­portant asset of the business ambas­sador—and has had the satisfaction of seeing the trend in business educa­tion veer that way in the intervening years. 
-A.gainst the prevailing materialistic philosophy of change and instability, Notre Dame has held with nnerring faith to a belief in unchanging funda­mental principles by which all the problems of life can be met as they arise—and if we have a mission in the educational world of today I be­lieve it is to call the higher institu­tions back to that same belief. The founders of our great Republic held that certain rights are fundamental and inalienable. We hold with the founders in this, as against the mod­em prophets who hold that there are no fixed principles, that there are no rights except such as come from the 
•\vill of the government—and in hold­ing with the founders we are simply carrying out the task bequeathed to us by Father Sorin. 
The '3V(o(re 'Dame cAlumnus November, 1934 
CAMPUS ACTIVITIES 
By William H.Touiney/35 
Representing 47 states and several foreign countries, 2,G32 old and new students drifted back to the campus for registration on Sept. 11 and 12, to find a new post office in the middle stages of erection and a new admin­istration ready to guide them through the coming school year. 
On the 13th classes began and the same spirit of informality prevailed in the upper-class sessions while many of the sophomores and all the fresh­men met their new professors for the first time. Professorial-undergradu­ate friendships were renewed and a truce was established until the form­al school periods began the next day. 
The campus wits were dismayed to discover that the faculty board of publications had decided to discon­tinue the publication of the Juggler; but undergraduate humor was still rampant in the rooms and corridors of the Halls and much banter passed across tables in the Dining hall. 
On the first Sunday back. Father O'Hara celebrated a solemn high Mass in Sacred Heart Church to open officially the scholastic year at Notre Dame. Father Francis Wenninger, dean of of the College of Science, preached the sermon and told the Freshmen what they might expect to derive from an education at Notre Dame. The lay faculty attended, gowned in their academic robes, and formed the bulk of the procession from the porch of the Main building to the doors of the church. 
During the week, S.A.C. Chairman Thomas K. LaLonde welcomed the Freshmen at a convocation in the gym at which the student officers were introduced to the new class and undergraduate regulations and tradi­tions were outlined and explained. . . Win Day, a junior, made a triumph­ant return to the campus, fresh from the National Amateur Golf Tourna­ment, where he gave the country's best a scare before being eliminated in the quarter final round. 
Something new in the way of mass sight-seeing was established on the afternoon of Sept. 30 when 300 under­graduates of 26 Italian universities came down from Chicago to wander about the campus and taste a special spagheeti dinner prepared in their honor by Dining Hall Chief Connolly. The local Italian club acted as hosts. The same afternoon Father O'Hara talked over the Church of the Air program and the Moreau Choir fol­lowed him with selections of liturgical music. 
Bill Miller was appointed head of the newly organized Blue Circle, an organization honorary as well as util­itarian, intended to promote student actirities and to act as mediator be­tween the students and the faculty Disciplinary Board. . . The lay fac­ulty came in for its share of honors when it was announced that Prof. Groom, of the Music department, had received a licentiate degree of music from the Board of Regents of the Royal College of Music and the Royal Academy of Music in London. 
Rapid progress was made on the FERA project on the south end of the campus, which, under the di­rection of Father Thomas Steiner, is intended to place all wires under­ground and thus do away ^\^th the poles and overhead wire about the campus. Father Steiner, by the way, replaced Father Matthew Walsh upon the latter's resignation from the Pro­vincial council of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
In a quiet ceremony on Saturday morning, Sept. 22, Rev. John A. Staunton, former teacher of philos­ophy at Notre Dame and a convert from the Protestant Episcopal church, received Holy Orders from Most Rev. John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne. 
Doctor Francis Powers, a familiar personage to all alumni of many years back, finally received long-need­ed assistance vdtii the appointment of Dr. James McMeel, a local doctor, as assistant University physician. . . A few days later the sporting bloods of the campus received a thrill in the visit of Jack Dempsey, former heavy­weight champion, who dropped in to have a chat with Elmer Layden. . . He was followed, a day or so later, by 500 women, members of the N. C. 
C. W., who assembled in Washington Hall for their annual convention and to make plans for the local program in Catholic Action. 
On the night before the Te-vas game the first pep meeting of the year was held in the gym. The entire student body attended to hear Father O'Hara, Elmer Layden, and Paul Host, '32, tell them about Notre Dame spirit. From the volume of noise it was evident that there is no let down in undergraduate loyalty to the team. 
During the week, Hugh O'Donnell, '94, returned to the campus for a short 'risit and to renew acquaint­ances old and new. While here he ad­dressed the Press club and told them a bit about his own newspaper work and a lot about his recent trip to Bussia as a delegate for American Industrialists. 
On Oct. 13 the student body at­tended a high Mass in Sacred Heart Church on the anniversary of Found­er's Day, In keeping with the usual tradition, no classes were held that day. 
A bomb shell was cast into the local camp of campus politicians when a member of the presidents' council suggested a plan whereby the nomina­tions for future class presidents would be placed in a hat and, in grab bag manner, the winning name would be picked from -svithin by a disinterested person—if such an individual can be found. There was no formal adoption of the suggestion, and undergraduate opinions vary. If adopted, it will do away with a grand old custom. 
On the evening of Oct. 15 the South Bend Chamber of Commerce tendered a testimonial dinner to President Father O'Hara. It was announced, upon this occasion, that such an af­fair will occur with the inauguration of each new administration of the University. On the preceding Thurs­day the Lay Faculty club had also tendered a dinner to Father O'Hara in the University Dining hall. Presi­dent Pedro de Landero welcomed the new administration and pledged the cooperation of the organization. 
A revival of former pep meetings was held the night before the Purdue game when the University band marched around the winding campus paths to pick the members of the Halls and lead them in a march down Notre Dame Avenue to a point op­posite the stadium where a monster bonfire was the scene for cheer leader antics and several speeches by local and imported orators. Among the talkers were Coach Layden, Cap Ed­wards, Tim Galvin, and Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner. AVhat hap­pened the next day is history. 
The local social season got under way with the announcement that the Sophomore Cotillion would be held the night before the Wisconsin game when all good sophomores—and not a few upperclassmen — would dance at the famous Palais Royal. With that announcement the campu s settled down to study and preparations for the Carnegie Tech game. 

November, 1934 The "^otTe 'Dame cAlumnas 39 
EDITORIAL 
JAMES J. PHELAN 
James J. Phelan, recipient of the Laetare Medal in 1931 and countless other honors of Church and state. Lay Tnistee of the University, is dead. 
Eulogy has been heaped upon eulogy from the many sources that profited from the exemplary Catholic life that Mr. Phelan led. 
Nothing remains to be said concerning the individual but to add the sincere regret that the alumni of Notre Dame feel when a good friend of Notre Dame dies. 
The occasion, however, offers the alumni, particularly, an opportunity to pay tribute not only to Mr. Phelan, but to a group of men of whom he was outstandingly one, who, not connected with the University by academic asso­ciation, still find in it a strong appeal to their talents and resources to which they generously and in vai-ying ways respond. 
The Lay Trustees, especially the non-alumni half of that body, typify the peak of this group. From them much is asked and much is received, with no other satis­faction or remuneration than the sense of sei-vice ren­dered to an institution in which they must essentially believe. 
Throughout the countiy there are many other men who are similarly, if less formally, enlisted in the sem'ce of Notre Dame. 
They desei-ve the appreciation of everj' alumnus of Notre Dame as they have the heartfelt appreciation of the University itself. They are raised far from the lightly designated and often unsolicited "synthetic" alumni. 
They are the purest example of unselfish giving to Notre Dame. For the Notre Dame man who gives to Notre Dame gives, in some measure, to himself. 
Among these valued friends of Notre Dame, it is significant tribute indeed to record that Mr. Phelan was a leader. 
BEDTIME STORY 
Once upon a time a Kind Lady had a large and lovely House. She also had Thousands of Children. 
Many of them had lived in the House before Leaving Home to Make Good. They knew the Ways of the House and of the Kind Lady. 
Always in the House were several thousand Younger Children. They still required much Sleep. They still demanded Discipline. They loved the Kind Lady but thought her Old Fashioned. And they looked at the Older Children with Awe and Admiration, of a Kind. 
Loving and Understanding the Kind Lady, you would have thought that when the Older Children came back to stay in the large House they would have Helped her guide the Children living in it. 
Older they were. But Children they continued to be. They brought Discord; they brought Disquiet; and to the Kind Lady they brought Dismay. 
Until finally the Kind Lady said that unless the Older Children who returned to the large House behaved so that their coming and their staying was pleasing to both the Kind Lady and the Younger Children, then it might be that the Large House would not be Large enough, and only the Younger Children Welcome to its Rooms. 
And of course, being Older, the Kind Lady found only the Deep and Undying Love of the Older Children re­maining, and the Kind Lady and the Younger Children and the Older Children lived Happily ever After. 
THE JUGGLER DIES 
The Juggler, since 1920 the mirror of Notre Dame's lighter nature, is dead—pronounced so oy the budget doctors of the University. 
Facts are facts. Upon them the decision was based, and with it, there is of course no argument. 
But there still remains a regret that goes with the passing of a friend, no matter how long anticipated. 
In the Juggler, ridiculous by nature, there was invar­iably a touch of the sublime. 
In an ei-a of smut and in a field particularly pervaded by filth, the Juggler was a smiling crusader for decency, achie^'ing a technical and literary recognition which gave the lie direct to claims that indecency was the essence of modem humor. 
Our Lady has lost a knight whose heroic charges were not all against windmills. 
VOX ALUMNORUM 
Elmer Layden has inherited one splendid tradition, it seems. 
Vox populi began its customary dirge when Texas upset the country's crystal gazers by winning the opening game. 
But the voice of the alumni was calm, quiet in a re­assuring way, filled with the mettle that Inspires. 
The following Saturday proved it. 
Such has become the way of the alumni of Notre Dame. Our University administration is composed of our o^vn alumni. Our coaching staff is composed of our own alumni. They are trained voices. Even the most friendly voices, untrained, add nothing to harmony. 
It is to our credit that we seem to know the time for community singing. 
BOOKS 
(Under this head, each month, the ALUMNUS hopes to list books by alumni or of particular alumni inter­est. A few of them will be reviewed by the staif, as opportimity permits. Many %vill simply be reviews from other sources. Alumni who write books or publish articles, or alumni who see such published books or ar­ticles, are asked to cooperate in mak­ing this department complete. Ed.) 
Of general interest is the appoint­ment of Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., '11, to the editorship of the Ave Maria, succeeding Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, '06, who is head of the English department of the Univer­sity. Father Carroll has a splendid literary background of poetry and prose in his own right. In addition, he retains the staif of e.xcellent and familiar writers associated with Father Burke and Father Hudson. But of primary interest to alumni is the statement that the Ave Maria will welcome material from alumni of Notre Dame, in keeping with the nature of the magazine, with which all Notre Dame men should be fa­miliar. 
From the pages of the Ave Maria comes the following review: 
With the German political cauldron in an extreme state of ferment at this time, the recent volume of Mr. George N. Shuster, "Strong Man Rules" (D. Appleton-Century Com­pany. $2) is particularly interesting and informative. It is a study of Hit­ler and his political experiments done in a quite objective manner. Hitler was an answer and a hope for a num­ber of discontented parties who felt that the Nazi held out to them a pos­sible solution of many problems that had been let ride by his predecessors. Mr. Shuster points out that there is no such thing as a "German People." The nation is composed of a number of minor groups with special ideals and objectives. The Military party 

.which was dominant during the war, was totally discredited after the Ver­sailles treaty. It was succeeded by the Catholic - Socialist - Democratic coalition which met with little better success. In the meantime, Hitler was training what is an army, playing up to the psychology of the old soldier, and using to good eifect the methods of the American politician. When he finally got the reins of power, he set himself to destroy every other power, and to try and eifect by force a Ger­man People with one national ideal. How successful he has been the next few weeks may tell. "The greatest men in Germany," wTites Mr. Shus­ter, "do not know which way their country is going," and he does not at­tempt to prophesy. But he gives a thorough study of the movements as they came into being since the war, and has analyzed their influence on the nation. There is an illuminating chapter on the Jewish question which shows that Jew baiting, though it is an old German custom, as it is an English and an American custom, has been used by the politicians in Ger­many to make an outlet for German discontent and prejudice against many things for which the Jews are no more responsible than any other group in the country. The book is written in an interesting, racy style which makes it decidedly pleasant reading. 
The columns of Our Sunday Vis­itor yielded these two interesting criticisms: 
TRAVEL LIGHT. Dr. Burton Con­frey. 51-00. Magnificat Press, Man­chester, N.H. 
A chain letter book, depicting the thoughts, emotions, ideals and stan­dards of seven young men during the period of our country's participation in the World War, and ^vritten for "Joe, the Persevering, who fought his battle on a cot in Detroit." The ex­periences of these young men are told in the phraseology typical of youth, hence make a book that should have a special appeal for the young. In a reunion the young men re-read their letters and discuss them after a deeper and more varied experience, to see what change, if any, has been effected in their viewpoints on life. 
Travel Light contains much humor expressed in the vernacular of youth who possess the Faith and cherish it enough that it crops out into every­day persiflage. The publishers pro­claim it fiction in which young women learn what youths expect of them. The author dedicates the story to Van Wallace, "Knight of Our Lady," whom Dr. Confrey states "still fights valiantly on his bed of inaction." 
On the flyleaf between each chap­ter a thought is injected. We quote but one, but it is indicative of the trend of the others: 
"Think of the sign beside the statue of American Womanhood: 'Ad­mire but do not touch.' " 
The dedication, particularly, rec­ognizing the heroism of Van Wallace, Notre Dame student in 1923-24, who has fought such a good fight over the ten years that a broken neck has made him an invalid whose very liv­ing has been against the predictions of doctors, comes as a sincere pleas­ure to the thousands of students who, through Father O'Hara, have added their prayers each year for his re­covery. 
Dr. Confrey was a member of the English faculty from 1921 to 1929. He is at present head of Mt. Mercy College, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
KELIGION AND LIVING, by Brother Ernest, C.S.C, Ph.B. '25, Ph.D. 75c. Bruce Publishing Co., Mil­waukee. 
The author states in his foreword that the chapters in this book repre­sent "the partial fruit of eleven years of experiments in teaching boys to live their religion." He asserts he has used his methods with senior boys in high school only, but he thinks they may be used effectively in other years, and that with small changes various Sisters have found they are effective in teaching girls of the high school level. 
The studies follow the months of the liturgical year. The treatment is practical and the lessons should pro­mote soxmd Catholicity in the heart of the student. Teachers will find this compact little volume a valuable aid in teaching religion. 
One of the most interesting books from several angles during recent months is the volume, Chicago's True Founder, written by James Ryan Haydon, who became a student at Notre Dame in 1892. Mr. Haydon at­tempts to prove, and makes a splen­did case of it, that Thomas Owen, not John Kinzie, is the real father of the present metropolis. Mr. Haydon, living in Lombard, 111., is also Di­rector of the Owen Memorial Fund, a movement commanding the support of Chicago's civic leaders. 
One of his chapters is the very significant "Precursors of Notr e Dame University." 
In letters to Rev. James Bums, C.S.C, and to the Editor, the author write s the following revealing thoughts, ably reflected in his book: 
"I have planted the germinating seeds of Notre Dame deep in the pioneer soil of this western country, and have revealed that Sorin and his band of heroes did but develop a mag­nificent American idea — a Catholic College in the West. Now it is pos­sible to tmderstand Notre Dame, for the spirit of Notre Dame is the spirit of Father Badin, valiant, inspired, and unconquerable. . . . 
"Forty-two years ago, when I first went to that paradise which is Notre Dame, there was still much of the Father Badin tradition among the older priests and brothers. From them I caught an accent of devotion to that pioneer priest of the western wilderness, in whose stout heart brooded a determination to establish a Catholic College in the West. And when I came upon the memorials written by his own hand among the Indian Bureau archives in Washing­ton, D. C, in which this rugged apostle of the solitudes first set forth in concrete form his initial plan for a "seminary of learning," I felt, in­deed, that I had come upon docimients that were sacred." 
(Continued on Pasc 42) 

FR. O'HARA DELIVERS CHURCH OF AIR SERMON 
Law Gnit Brilliant 

No lesser adjective seems adequate for the record established by the College of Law classes of 1933 and 1934 in the bar exams. 
Dean Konop states that 50% and more of all those taking the state bar exams fail to pass. 
But of the Class of 1933 of the Notre Dame Law College, 35 in num­ber, 27 have passed their respective bars. The other eight have not re­ported. At worst, however, the per­centage of success is 77%. 
Of the Class of 1934, totalling 34, 22 have already passed bar examina­tions in the several states. Only four have reported failures in the first efforts. Eight have not been heard from. But, again, the worst percent­age for the newest class is better than 64%. 
Both classes, being very young, can undoubtedly raise these percen­tages with imminent examinations. But the original figures are a decided tribute to the legal training of the Notre Dame College of Law. 
Cooneys in Crash 

Doctor John M. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism, suffered three fractured ribs and a painful leg injury when a car driven by his daughter, Catherine Ann, was side­swiped at the comer of Napoleon and Stanfield streets. South Bend, on the way to the Purdue game. 
He was removed to St. Joseph's hospital, along with Mrs. Cooney, who was also injured in the accident. The Doctor was released in a week, and Mrs. Cooney was allowed to return home after remaining three days for treatment and observation. 
Professor ond Mrs. James F. Hines, the other occupants of the Cooney ear, were uninjured in the accident, 
Kirby Heads Jr. C. C. 

Robert E. Kirby, '29, former presi­dent of the Indianapolis alumni dub, erstwhile cheerleader, and other sig­nal honors including twins, rose to the heights in a different field when he was elected president of the India­ana Junior Chamber of Commerce at its recent convention in Indianapolis, Sept. 15. 
Alumni Board to Meet 

Notre Dame vs. Northwestern is just one of the struggles set for Sat­urday, November 17. 
On that day at the -Auditorium Hotel at 9:30 A. M. the Alumni Board vs. the problems of the Asso­ciation will go at least sixty minutes. 
President Timothy P. Galvin, '16, will preside. In view of both .the accessibility of Chicago and the rival­ry with Northwestern, a full meeting of the Board is expected. 
Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, president of the University, has given so freely of his intellectual faculties in response to innumerable demands made upon his speaking time that the ALUMNUS is hard pressed to re­print those utterances of most signi­ficance to alumni and within our space limits. The brilliant sermon' preached by Father O'Hara over the "Church of the Air" program of the Columbia network on Sunday, Sept. 30, is omitted in full because many alumni undoubtedly listened in, and because the radio address from In­dianapolis which is reprinted in full contains more definite Notre Dame references of alumni interest as well as the sound underlying principles of Catholic education. 
The turgidity of religion, the inane deification of popular heroes, indi­vidualism and widespread disrespect for real authority were sternly ex­coriated by Father O'Hara. 
The program originated from the studios of WSBT-WFAM, The South Bend Tribune's broadcasting stations, in the John F. Cushing hall of engin­eering on the Notre Dame campus, and was relayed to the 105 auxiliary units of the Columbia Broadcasting system. 
"In these days we hear a great deal about leadership," Pr. O'Hara said in part. "The chaos which follows a major social disturbance calls for ad­justment to new conditions, and the world war surpassed any previous social disturbance of history. Hence we hear now of political leadership, economic and business leadership, so­cial leadership and the like. Any movement for readjustment requires, of course, sound backing. 
"In the present mood of society, democracy holds sway, hence this backing must be secured by an appeal to the masses. And herein lies a dan­ger, for history shows only too clearly that it is the way of the masses to follow a personality rather than a principle; a man rather than a plat­form. A Mussolini, a Hitler, a Stalin, a Calles, bear eloquent witness to this truth. . . . 
"Behind the war, behind the orgies of the reconstruction period, behind the depression, runs the conunon veil of greed, the common spectre of sel­fishness, to common quest of the indi­vidual .for pi e asure , possessions, power. 
"Religion, not law, is the practical solvent of greed. A national recovery act, for example, may establish a minimum wage, but not even an army of enforcement boards can remove the selfishness that makes such an act necessary. Only religion can do that eifectivcly, only a life ordered on principles, and on supernatural prin­ciples if the effect is to be far-reach­ing. .... 
"Why then has not religion done the work it is supposed to do? If religion was on the job, why was there a war? If religon was on the job, why was there the unbalanced distribution of wealth that brought on the depression? The answer is simple enough: Religion was not on the job, religion was inarticulate. 
"Where shall we lay the blame for the disrespect for authority which is so characteristic of our age? Lay it where you please. Blame it on the weakness of human nature, which is ever prone to pride. Lay it on the home, w^here the bright sayings of the children are treasured by fond par­ents who give their offspring in this way an overwhelming sense of im­portance. . . Blame it on the school, which acts today on the principle that children must be entertained. Blame it on the lawmakers, who jug­gle with human rights for political expediency. Blame it on the philoso­phers of individualism. 
"Historically, the reformation must bear its proper share of responsibility for individualism, for it introduced the principles of private interpreta­tion of the Scriptures as the rule of faith. . . But to go back to its real source we must go all the way to the Garden of Eden. In the story of the fall we see clearly who fathered indi­vidualism—the father of lies." 
In con elusion Father O'Hara warned: "Never be deceived by the appeal to your 'superior intellects.' It was not to Voltaire or to Schopen­hauer or Nietzsche that Christ said: "Feed my lambs, feed my sheep,' but only to poor, sinful Peter, who denied Him thrice and swore: 'I know not the man'." 
"Sport Story" Goes N,D. 

Sport Story, one of the more virile of the Street & Smith family of mag­azines, goes definitely Irish in its Dec. 10 number (on sale Nov. 8). 
Maurice T. Andrews, '17, author of "The Juggler of Notre Dame," is the author of the featured short novel, "Panski of the Irish." The story, written from the educated viewpoint of an alumnus, presents the inside story of the international flavor of the Notre Dame teams which seems to worry almost everyone but the Notre Dame man. 
The cover is an action painting of football, backed by a very good paint­ing of the head of the late Knute Rockne. 
In the department, "From the Bleachers," Handley Cross discusses "Notre Dame Football." And under "Big Moments in Football," the Army 
N.D. game of last year is discussed. 
The 1<[otre 'Dame cAlumnus November, 1934 

BOOKS Another Victory March 
(Continued from PaRc 40) There are many stories of success, LATE CLUB NEWS most of them beginning in modest 
A specially bound volume of The First Cardinal of the West of which Paul E. Martin (Notre Dame '09) is the author, was presented to His Holiness Pope Pius XI, on Sept. 20, by Cardinal Mundelein of Chicago. The book tells the story of the Church in the Archdiocese of Chicago under the administration of His Eminence and was published by The Neiv World official organ of the archdiocese, in commemoration of the episcopal silver jubilee of His Eminence. 
From among many Catholic writers considered, Paul R. Martin who is an accepted authority on Catholic sub­jects as well as an author, editor and critic of distinction, was chosen to write this book which may be called an historical biography. Since early last February it has been appearing serially in The New World and has attracted ^ridespread attention. There was an insistent demand for its pub­lication in book form -n-ith the result that two editions have just been is­sued. 
The first of these, called the Spon­sors' 'edition, was sold entirely on sub­scription and orders for the entire edi­tion were receivd by the publishers long before the book went to press. Ths books of this edition are elabor­ately bound in red leather, beauti­fully tooled with Cardinal Munde­lein's coat-of-arms and the author's name embossed on the front cover. The second, or library edition, is bound in red cloth with gold lettering. The copy of the book which Cardinal Mundelein took to Rome and which was presented to the Holy Father on the jubilee day of His Eminence when he celebrated Mass at the tomb of St. Peter, was bound in white leather. 
The First Cardinal of the West is WTitten in the same style which has marked most of the work of Paul R. Martin and which manifested itself in no uncertain manner during his stu­dent days at Notre Dame when he was one of the outstanding editors of The Scholastic. Graphically, it tells of Cardinal Mundelein's boyhood, his rise to the priesthood and later to the episcopal dignity as auxialiary bishop of Brooklyn; his selection by the Holy See as archbishop of Chicago and the work he has done as head of this vast archdiocese. The subject matter falls naturally into groups in­cluding educational work, charities, war work, boy work and those activ­ities which are classified as purely religious. The preface of The First Cardinal of the West was wTitten by His Excellency, the Most Rev. Ber­nard J. Shell, auxiliary bishop of Chi­cago. 
obscurity and ending in material 
glory. This one is a bit different: 
In 1924 Eddie Collins came to Notre Dame, inconspicuous in the shadow then cast by his brother "Chuck," end on the Four Horsemen team. This younger-brother handi­cap is a tangible thing in school ath­letics. But Eddie overcame mental and physical obstacles to win the cov­eted monogram in 1928. 
In Februarj' of 1930 Eddie ac­cepted an opportunity to help Jimmy Phelan coach at the U. of Washing­ton. The following September his health broke, and a coaching career was replaced by an address in Tuc­son. For four years he has stayed in Ai-izona, striWng to di-aw from its pe­culiar Qualities the restoration of the ^^tality that was his at Notre Dame. 
Never has there been, in the grati­fying regularity of his correspond­ence vdth the -A.lumni Office, a hint of anything but the fire and the will to win that Rock gave to his boys. Frequently there has come a practi­cal suggestion for a phase of Associa­tion activity. With every logical ex­cuse for omitting financial obligations to the -Association, Eddie has never failed to send a couple of dollars an­nually, insisting on this gesture for the ALUMNUS, which, in his en­forced quiescence, mirrors for him the active world of which he was so vital a part. Never has there been an opportunity for a Notre Dame contact in Tucson but Eddie took cheerful advantage of it. 
Freshman Class president in '24; SPRINGFIELD, ILL. 

After a summer vacation the Club held its first meeting on October 2. The place was the private bar in the Reisch Brewery and 25 turned out for the "suds" and Dutch lunch—a very enjoyable evening for all. 
DAVE WALSH, '34, is our newest member—and the guest of the even­ing was BOB DIXON of the Dixon Dixons. 
ROSCO BONJEAN, '28, from all indications will be our next Count}' Judge. With Dixon in the Supreme Court Building and Bonjean in the Court House, you and Bill Dooley may feel free to visit us any time. 
EARL C. WORTHINGTON, '27, and Jliss Catherine DriscoU of Spring­field will ^'isit the campus on Novem­ber 10—destination. Log Chapel. 
Bob Graham 
Secretarj' 

S.A.C., '24-'26; President of the Chi­cago Club, '28-'29; a coaching ca­reer opening its inviting doors in '30— 
This boy now lies on a hospital bed in -4.nn Arbor, Michigan, cheerfully, thoughtfully sending a note of the change of address. 
Three major operations must be borne, culminating these four long years of ^^^tual exile. 
The ALUMNUS submits the storj­of Eddie Collins as a story of spiritual success. 
November, 1934 The 'J^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
BY DIREaOR OF JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, '32 ATHLETIC PUBLICny 
ATHLETICS 
Two gone and three to go—that's the way the vengeful Irish of Notre Dame have their scorecards marked at this writing. 
It's only another way of saying that Notre Dame has evened the score with Carnegie Tech and Purdue for last year's defeats, and that the names Pittsburgh, Navy, Southern California, are heavily underlined on the rest of the schedule. 
Don't get the idea, however, that Coach Elmer Layden and his lads are taking their games with Wisconsin, Northwestern, and Army lightly, or that they do not feel keenly the sting of the 7 to 6 defeat at the hand."? of Texas in the opener. 
Layden has accomplished lots at Notre Dame in a iew short months, but especially in. the weeks since the opening of pi-actice last September 
18. (The scheduled opening of the 15th was i-ained out and the news­reels took all afternoon the 17th to record the new Notre Dame shift music for posterity, while Sunday, the 16th, inteiTened). 
He and his noble staff of assistants are the first to admit that there is still much to be accomplished. They say, indeed, that there is more to be done than has already been achieved. We are not one to disagree with them, but here are some of the things which have come about under the new regime: 
1.—The morale of the team has been restored. It is seldom that the Notre Dame fan is satisfied in defeat, but those 33,000 fans who came and saw the 7 to 6 victory by Jack Che­vigny's Texas Longhoms went away enthusiastic, proud that Noti-e Dame, with its back to the wall in the clos­ing minutes of play, struck again and again -ivith the old-time poise and con­fidence, and that little Andy Pilney could stand behind his own goal line and chuck forward passes into the stiff north wind without anyone com­ing in to knock him down or chase him into the stands. The line was blocking as confidently and thorough­ly, with defeat staring it in the face, as it would have been had Notre Dame been on the long end of the score. This confidence continued in the Purdue game despite the defeat by Texas which was supposed to be enough, before the game, to send the boys into a panic. 
2.—Notre Dame is improving mechanically every week. Blocking and tackling in the Texas game was i-agged much of the time. There were none of the annihilating blocks that characterized teams of the past. But 
1934 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 
Dec. 7 Kalamazoo, here Dec. 15 Albion, here Dec. 18 Northwestern, here Dec. 22 St. Ambrose (tentative) Dec. 26 Stanford, here Dec 29 N.Y.U. at Madison S<i. Card. Dec. 31 Holy Cross at Boston Jan. a Minnesota at Minneapolis Jan. 8 Marquette, here Jan. 12 Butler, here Jan. 19 Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Jan. 21 Detroit at Detroit Jan. 26 Chicago, here Jan. 31 Ohio State at Columbus Feb. 2 Northwestern at Evanston Feb. IS Pittsburgh, here Feb. 23 Butler at Indianapolis Mar. 1 Marquette at Milwaukee Mar. 4 Minnesota, here iMar. 9 Temple at Philadelphia Mar. 11 St. Xavier at Cincinnati 

against Purdue, there were several, principally by Quarterback Wally Fromhart. Against Carnegie Tech, spirit ebbed somewhat, probably be­cause of the Purdue victory, and blocking at the line of scrimmage suffered. But downfield blocking was improved. The blocking on Bill Shakespeare's 56-yard touchdown run for the first score, looked like the old days again. If Layden can coordinate the line-of-scrimmage blocking he has been getting ^vith the Carnegie Tech game murder of the secondary, his combination is going to be hard to beat. 
3.—Notre Dame is getting sound quarterbacking. The tactical errors 
FRED SOLARI 
A center from Boston. 

Notre Dame has made in its three games to date can be counted on the fingers of one hand. None of them have proved too costly. One serious error of judgment, the calling of a line plunge on fourth down with six yards to go on the Texas 30-yard line, marred that contest, but all the quarterbacks saw the mistake and profited therefrom. 
4.—^An orchid to Trouble Shooter 
, Joe Boland for his line. The guards and tackles were so seriously ma­ligned by coaches and this press agent before the season opened that we went to Layden and asked him if we couldn't say just one or two nice things in print about the lads so that they wouldn't develop an inferiority complex. Layden said, "I'll take care of that." So he told them at the next day's chalk talk that Notre Dame guards and tackles rank with the best in the country. The boys like Lay­den so much and their trust in him is so complete that they believed him, and went out to prove the truth of his words. They aren't the best in the country, but they rank with the best, and our guess is that theyll continue to prove it. Boland had a lot of line trouble to unravel, but the static is slowly but surely being elim­inated. 
5.—A great accomplishment of Layden's is the division of his large squad into an "A" and a "B" group, with six teams on each, and the ap­pointment of Bill Cemey, fullback of Layden's playing day, as their coach. "Captain Bill of the B Boys" is send­ing a new man up to the "A" group every few days now, and then Lay­den, Boland, Tom Conley, and Chet Grant take the boys in hand for in­dividual instruction. The move has had a great psychological effect in keeping the boys from the sixth team to the 12th fighting all the time to get into the upper bracket. The will­of-the-wisp quantity known as "spirit" can rise or fall, affecting the entire squad, and its ebb or flow can start at one end of the squad as well as the other. Layden realizes this, and his division of the squad has pro­vided just one more dam against any possible ebb tide. 
6.—^To recount the examples which flash to mind of good-will building done by Layden at Notre Dame would take more space than is available. Layden's quick wit, geniality, and generally ascetic demeanor have cap­tured the hearts of alumni, students, faculty, admim"stration, players, news­papermen, radio men, cameramen, fans without any particular allegiance to Notre Dame other than an interest 
The ISlotre 'Dame cAlumnus November, 1934 
TONY MAZZIOTTI 
A halfback from New York. 
in its football teams, and members of 
the coaching fratemitj'. Everyone, 
even the opposing coaches, is behind 
Layden. We hope all their teams are 
behind, too, when Notre Dame 
finishes 60 minutes of play with them. 
We are making no sophomoric pre­diction of victory the rest of the way in, or anything like it. Notre Dame still has to meet Wisconsin at home, and then travel to points of varying distances to meet Pittsburgh, Navy, Northwestern, Army, and Southern California. Even if Pitt were not as formidable as last year, if Navy and Army were not undefeated, iJE Northwestern had not suddenly found scoring power, and if Southern Calif-f omia were not on its way to a come­back after dropping a couple for the good of the game, the travelling in itself would be enough to wreck most teams. 
For purposes of future generations, we shall record briefly here, the high lights of the games to date, about which you have no doubt read in the newspapers long since: 
TEXAS, 7; NOTRE DAME, 6. 
Jack Chevigny's alert, iighting, ex­perienced team won a well-deserved victorj', led by the brilliant Co-Captains Charley Coates and Bohn Hilliard, center and left halfback, respectively, and by Jack Gray, the best end in the Southwest. Gray re­covered the Idckoff on Notre Dame's 18-yard line when Fred Carideo, one of many heroes of last year's Army game, fumbled it in his over-anxiety to get going. Four plays later Texas had smashed over a touchdown from the eight-yard stripe with Hilliard carrying the ball, and with Hilliard adding the extra point from place­ment. Notre Dame scored on a simi­lar break when John Michuta, who's doing a swell job at right tackle, made Hadlock, Texas quarterback, fumble a punt when tackled viciously. 
and Michuta completed the job by recovering on the Longhom 9-yard line. George Melinkovich, who has made a marvelous return to his old-time speed and stamina after his serious illness of a year ago, punched it over three plays later. Wayne Millner, rugged varsity left end, allowed for the cross-wind when he attempted the placement for the tying point, but the wind died down suddenly, according to quarterback Bud Bonar, who held the ball, and the pigskin went sailing a foot to the right of the cross-bars carrj'ing the precious accessory point with it into oblivion. This game marked the re­turn to the varsity lineup of Jack Robinson, who hadn't played since 1932 because of an eye infection. Out of football entirely for approximately 21 months, he came back after the unfortunate death of his father, ^vith only nine days of practice remaining before the Texas game. He won the varsity job then and there. The juniors who were sophomores last year, rave about his calm demeanor on the field and his steadying influ­ence on them. Between the halves of the game, the Rev. John F. O'Hara, C. S. C, paid a beautiful tribute to the memory of Johnny (Tex) Young, Irish right halfback star who died last July of an infec­tion. "We rise today to honor the memory of a Christian gentleman from Texas," Father O'Hara said: "We may well apply to him the words of Wisdom, 'In a short space he ful­filled a long life.' " 
Chevigny deserves worlds of credit for the fine work he is doing at Tex­as. His team has won four of its five games to date, and Chevigny is al­ready, we hear, the unofBcial gover­nor of the state. He will go far, this young halfback of 1928, and Rockne assistant of 1929 and 1930. 
NOTRE DAME, 18; POBDUE, 7. 
Layden used this opportunity to make the world safe for Horsemen, by defeating his old teammate. Noble Kizer, guard ^vith the 1924 Four Horsemen. Purdue had the ball on its own five-yard line after the Wck­ofF. Three minutes later it was Notre Dame's ball on its five-yard line. Undismayed by this Purdue rush, the Irish fought back and staged as thrilling a. second quarter rally as we've ever seen. George Melinkovich, who leads the team in scoring with three touchdowns, broke loose around his left end for 60­yards, pivoting out of the hands of two Purdue tackles, and scored stand­ing up. A few moments later he captured a 35-yard pass from Mike Layden and was dropped on the three yard line, from which he took the ball over in two lunges. Fred Carideo supplied the last climax when he came up fast grabbed a Purdue pass on his 25-yard line and streaked along the left sideline 75 yards for another touchdown. Layden used the un-
JoHN MICHUTA .1 tackle from Detroit. 
believeable total of 56 men (other estimates from 54 to 57) in this game. Purdue scored in the closing minutes after a long march down the field against the fourth and fifth teams. 
NoTKE DAME, 13; CARNEGIE TECH, 0. In breaking the spell Howard Harp­ster cast over Notre Dame in 1926, Notre Dame looked unimpressive against Carnegie Tech. Harpster played quarterback for the 1926 team which defeated the potential national champions, 19 to 0; he played quarterback in 1928 when Carnegie defeated the Irish, 27 to 7, on Cart­ier field in the first game Notre Dame lost at home in 23 seasons; he coached Tech to its 7 to 0 victory last year—and Notre Dame lost four out of the next five games. It seemed that Notre Dame could not win when Harpster had anything to do with the game. But two perfectly-executed scoring plays turned the trick. Bill Shakespeare tore around his right end for 56 yards midway in the second quarter for the first touchdown. Andy Pilney passed 32 yards to Capt. Dom­inic Vairo, right end, for the second touchdown in the third quarter. Bill Bruno, confident sophomore quarter­back kicked the extra point, the first registered in five attempts by the Irish, by the dropkick route. The rest of the afternoon was a marvel of defensive play and punting. Neith­er team could advance consistently, and Notre Dame apparently didn't want to advance. "The boys played methodically, carefully. They made few mistakes, except mechanical ones, but did little constructive work. Downfield blocking showed improve­ment, but blocking by both backs and linemen at the line of scrimmage showed retrogression. Things to be thankful for include the fact that the Irish handled more than a dozen punts without a fumble. They made only one other fumble with the wet ball, and recovered it themselves. 
NoyemlxT, 1934 

The "^otTe 'Dame cAlumnus 
CINCINNATI 
Much water has passed under the bridge since last I wrote you. 
Had a very successful season at Camp and considering everything, en­joyed the best season since Fort Scott became a summer recreation field for the boys and girls of this vicinity. Had a couple of Notre Dame men on my staff this summer, DON MARTIN '33, and JIM MALONEY, both to be graduated in Boy Guidance this year. We also had the head of the course, Mr. HOYEE, visit us a couple of times. 

Mr. Hoyer was very anxious to have his son, Ray, Jr., absorb some of the camping experiences of one of his students so he selected Fort Scott Camp for that try-out and Ray, Jr., served on my staff as a junior coun­selor. 
Came back from Camp around the 10th of September and jumped right into the preparation for the National Conference of Catholic Charities which was held in Cincinnati, Oct. 7 to 10. Monsignor Wagner, being pres­ident of the National Conference, our organization worked doubly hard for its success; and from the comment heard on all sides, we had one of the finest conferences ever held. Some say it was even superior to the one held in New York City last year. I am certainly glad as a Notre Dame man that I had a small part in the work­ings of this conference. 
I met quite a number of former| Notre Dame men who appeared on the various programs throughout the three days of the Conference. FATH­ER MURRAY and also FATHER VINCENT MOONEY contributed to the program. Father Mooney led sev­eral of the discussions on Catholic Youth and Recreation, and gave a very fine interview to the Cincinnati Pont reporter on the scope and type of his work. ERNEST DUBRUL, '92, a Cincinnati business man, was a leader in one of the discussions. Judge W. F. McGOWAN, a class­mate of mine, was chairman of the meeting on Probation and Delinquen­cy. CHARLES McCALL, of the Class of '30, Boy Guidance, LOU MOOR­MA.N, of this year's class and RAY PELLMAN, of '29, Boy Guidance, were very much in evidence during the entire conference as well as 
Father MICHAEL MOEIARTY of Cleveland, Director of Charities of that city, who played a very import­ant part in the Conference. 
So, all in all,- although the Confer­ence was national in scope, graced by the presence of the Apostolic Dele­gate, over 25 Archbishops and Bish­ops, hundreds of the clergy, Hon AL­FRED E. SMITH and several mem­bers of Mr. Roosevelt's cabinet, we found Notre Dame men doing their part to make it the success it was. Naturally, I was very proud to be in the employ of the man who was re­sponsible for making this conference a success. 
Quite a number of local Alumni served on the various committees. I might name LEE DUBOIS, HARRY and WILLIAM CRUMLEY, BILL CASTELLINI, CLARENCE BRINK, ERNEST DUBRUL and ED MOR­lARTY, assistant manager of the Hotel Netherland-Plaza, the head­quarters of the conference. 
Sort of rambled a bit from the topic of the Notre Dame club. How­ever, I couldn't resist giving you a picture of this Conference because so many of our men were in evidence there. Now for some news of the Notre Dame Club: 
We resumed our Fall and Winter meetings with a dinner and business meeting on Tuesday evening, Oct. 2. The club will hold its meetings this year at the Kemper Lane hotel, which is under the management of FRANK 
J. SWEENEY, of the Class of '18, a class mate of LEE DUBOIS. Frank is a very congenial host and I am sure that we are in for some very fine meetings this year. Naturally • eating in a Notre Dame atmosphere will mean a great deal. Tell the boys when they travel this way to give Frank a call, and I am sure they will be well taken care of. We also have EDDIE MORIARTY, assistant man­ager of the Netherland-Plaza hotel, one of the show hotels in the country; there is none finer. 
We had a splendid meeting and over 20 of the boys were present. The air was heavy with talk of Notre Dame and Notre Dame rtaditions. To a man, they vowed their confidence in ELMER LAYDEN as the man to put the boys back on the winning side. However, win or lose, we are still for him. I am sending you our meeting schedule for the year, so if any of the boys come this way, remember that the latch string is out: Oct. 2—^First regular monthly meet­
ing. Nov. 6 — Regular monthly meeting. LEO DUBOIS, Chairman. 
Dec. 8 — Afternoon cards, evening buffet lunch (Radio-So. Cal. game) PRANK SWEENEY, chairman. 
Dec. 22 — Reception for Cincinnati 
Campus students (Home - coming). Details later. BO B KUERZE, chairman. 
Jan. 8—^Regular monthly meeting — 
ladies party. BOB HUGHES, 

chairman. Feb. 12—President's party. Mar. 5 — Regular monthly meeting. 
Election of officers. HARR Y CRUMLEY, chairman. 

April 22—National Notre Dam e Night. AL and BIL L CASTEL­LINI, chairmen. 
May 7—Regular meeting, final for season. LARRY JANSZEN, chair­man. 
So, if you feel the urge to hie Cin­connati-ward this year, try to hit us on one of thsee dates. 
Just received a call from a DR. MCDONALD, who is spending his in­temeship at the Children's hospital. He informed me that he took his pre­med. at Notre Dame. 
LEE DUBOIS was in Chicago helping close up the World's Fair. Also made a trip to Washington in the interest of the Better Housing Plan. Lee, you know, is with the Fred'k. A. Schmidt Realty Co., one of the largest in the country. 
JOE MEYER, Coach at Xavier University, is putting a very fine team on the field this year. A very close defeat by Centre last Friday stopped a four-game winning streak. Joe is very ably assisted by CLEM CROWE. Clem certainly is showing us a fine line after losing two All American tackles. 
JIM MITCHELL is Assistant Man­ager of the L. B. Harrison Boys Club and Hotel. 
FRANK SWEENEY of '18 is put­ting an erstwhile dead hotel up among the leading hotels in the city. Right now, he is turning business away. Frank is also dolling up the place. 
Smiling ED MORIARTY continues to drag them in with that winsome smile of his. Eddie was certainly our friend at the National Conference last week. Ed is the Assistant Man­ager at the Netherland Plaza, consid­ered one of the finest hotels in the world. 
BOTTS CROWLEY is doing quite a lot of officiating. During business hours, he is doing quite well in the insurance game. 
JOE DAUTREMONT still contin­ues to be the Beau Brummell of the Police Dept Joe will make the Chief's job some day. 
BOB KUERZE is very busy these days securing orders for the best beer in the country, Hudepohl's. It is sec­ond to none; and if you haven't yet received it in South Bend, take a little tip from me, write Bob and cor­ner the market. 
HARRY CRUMLEY is still under­
The "^otre 'Dame cAlumnus November, 1934 
lining the city ^Wth sewers. Harry re­ports business as being on the up­grade even if he has to dig down. 
JOE MOEEISSEY is still turning out ^viniiers at Roger Bacon High school. Joe lost a lot of good boys last year, but you cannot keep a good man down. We are watching with interest Thermes, one of Joe's boys, now playing end at Notre Dame. 
BOB HUGHES is still in the brok­erage business and from the looks of things seems to be prospering. 
ANDY BARTON still selling Kel­logg's Products. 
ED McHUGH, better known as the Commodore, is around. That arm is not so well but Ed managers to get to all Notre Dame meetings. 
BILL CASTELLINI is busy in the publicity field. Bill just finished hand­ling a big job for the city. AL CAS­TELLINI has stuck, out his law shingle. 
Well, I have loads of news but I can't hog the limelight all the time, so, Jim, in the words of J. Walter Winchell, I'll be back in a flash with a flash. 
HOGAN MORRISSEY. 

CLEVELAND CLUB PLANS NAVY WEEK-END 
The stage is set for another big Notre Dame-Navy football week-end here Nov. 10. For the information especially of out-of-town alumni and their friends, who are planning on making this game, I will try to out­line the schedule of events for the week-end. 
The Notre Dame team will arrive at the Union Terminal station at 7:30 
a.m. Friday. As many of us as pos­sible will be on hand to meet them. From the depot, the team will go in a body to Mass, probably at the Ca­thedral, and will then go to the Lake Shore hotel, where they will stay while here. 
Friday evening, Nov. 9, the Club is having a smoker at the Cleveland Athletic club, 1120 Euclid avenue, for Notre Dame and Navy men and their friends. The price of admission \rill be nominal, and there will be several boxing and ^vrestling matches on the program, and refreshments available. 
From 11 a.m. Saturday forenoon until shortly before game time, a buf­fet luncheon, at 85 cents, will be served in the ballroom of Hotel Cleveland, on the mezzanine floor, for Notre Dame men and their wives, mothers, sisters and sweethearts. Wives of local members, who will act as hostesses, have planned this affair particularly for the entertainment of the feminine contingent, but the in­vitation extends to all N.D. escorts also. The committee also plans to en­tertain any feminine guests who may wish, during the absence of their es-courts at the smoker on Friday eve­ning, to attend an informal reception in Parlor B, on the mezzanine floor of Hotel Cleveland. 
A dinner at 51.50 a plate in honor of the tAvo teams, and for all Notre Dame and Navy men, vrill be given at the Lake Shore hotel, on Edge­water drive, at 6:30 p.m. Saturday evening. This ^vill be invitational, as only a certain number can be accom­modated. A cordial invitation is ex­tended herewith to all visiting alumni of the two schools, who are urged, however, to mail their reservations 
to FRED JOYCE, at the Lake Shore, 
as soon as possible. 
The dinner will be followed by a 
dance, also at the Lake Shore and 
commencing at 10 p.m. — informal, 
$3.00. The dance also is in\'itational, 
but all alumni and their friends will 
be welcome. 
J. R. RYAN, brother of our presi­dent, BILL RYAN, who formerly lived in Chicago, is a recent addition to the roster of Cleveland club mem­bers. 
FATHER O'HARA was here for a short stay on Oct. 1, on his way to Pittsburgh, and a number of the boys found opportunity to visit him at his hotel that evening. 
HENRY NEWMARK, class of '78, is taking good care of his title as the oldest Cleveland alumnus, by spend­
' ing the -svinter in Los Angeles, Calif., at the Park Vista hotel. PIERCE O'CONNOR, Secretaiy. 
KANSAS CITY DAN FOLEY, the able president of the Kansas City Club, writes that his gang "had an enjoyable K.C. Notre Dame Club golf tournament at the Wood Hill Country club. After we all had broken par, several times, we walked across the way to JO E O'DOWD's cottage and enjoyed a plentiful and floatable Dutch lunch." Dan continues: "Our weekly noon­day limcheons are being resumed this Tuesday, Oct. 2, at Engelman's, 1105 Grand Avenue. "Our club is boosting the St. Bene­dict's vs. K. U. game and pulling for LARRY MULLINS to bring home a victory. (The game was on Oct. 13. Larry's team lost.) "BOB TYLER, JOE O'BRIEN and RAY SMITH plan to see the N.D.­Te.\as game. FRED MANCUSO, JIM BRAY, others and myself plan to see the Carnegie Tech game. DR. NIGEO, EDDI E Mc GRATH, CHARLIE MEYER, JOE MURRAY, etc., intend to go. We are trying to roimd up the gang to a decision on one game and make a gallant charge on South Bend in a body." 
PHILADELPHIA 
If well begun is partly done, your local supporters are all set to go right along with Elmer and his boys. When a score and a half of the locals roll out for the first meeting, after a summer lay-off, it's time to get up and shout. But then, that's the way with these Philly fans, you never can dope them out. And, after their long hibernation they sure were poppin' with ideas. HARRY FRANCIS, '31, suggested that we go to see the BRILL - STUHLDREHER fracas, and you know what we saw. 
Somebody came up with the ques­tion of the Annual Christmas Form­al, and Messrs. COONEY, and Fran-CIS, and CHARLIE McKINNEY, ex­'26, and later assistant at St. Louis U., are the gallant yeomen who'll bear the brunt. 
JERRY WILSON, '31, homesick for his Pittsburg (after a short and deserved vacation) gets the olive for suggesting a unified block at the 
N. D. -Army battle. Another JERRY —of the Wilkesbarre, (Pa.) LYONS —^was on the wire for the purpose of greeting us. Speaking of Lions, CLIFF PRODEHL was around bragg­ing about how hard a Master's is at Penn State, and how they're still sore at the lickings N. D. administered a few years ago. 
A mess of the "Floridans," (be­cause they're with us only during the Winter), came back tanned after suns away from the Sleepy City. 
Here's calling "Glad to see you back!" to JIM BIBGINS (looking for­ward to that "men in white" label at the year's close.), BOB FLINT, '33 (ready to turn criminal if he doesn't get thru the same course in law at Penn, with JACK KENNY, '33). Speaking of medicos, heard MAURIE REAGAN was learning to speak Eng­lish in London, or thereabouts. JOE FARRELL came all the way in from our worthy Capitol, brought his fellow Harrisburgians' greetings. To say nothing of JIM O'DONNELL. 
We think we'd like to mention the Club's Mass for all deceased Notre Dame men at the Cathedral of Sts. Peter and Paul, Sunday, October 28 —a beginning of the not-forgotten suggestion of Mr. President GUS DESCH. If it's not well attended, watch the thunder here next month. 
TOM MAGEE. 
RHODE ISLAND 
According to an attractive notice sent out by CHARLIE GRIMES, the club was to meet on Wednesday eve­ning, Sept. 26, in the Naragansett hotel. Providence, to elect new officers and to discuss plans for the Army game and for the visit of the basket­ball team to New England next De­cember. 

WOMEN'S CLUB 
The ALUMNUS is pleased to offer herewith several valuable suggestions for reading, which are submitted by the Bibliogn^aphy committee of the club, through SE. M. ROBERTA STALEY, S.S.N.D., St. Louis. 
It is the hope of the ALUMNUS that these books will interest not only the Sisters and lay women graduates of Notre Dame, but will be equally valuable and welcome to the wives, sisters and mothers of Notre Dame alumni, who, we believe, frequently read the magazine. 
• 

MARRIAGES • 
BENJAMIN RISER, '24, and Miss Mildred Kessel were married October 21, at the Shoreland Hotel, Chicago. 
OWEN E. DESMOND, '24, and Miss Florence Burns were married on September 15, in Kenosha, Wisconsin. 
Dr. JASPER CAVA, '24, and Miss Teresa Michaelo, Steubenville, Ohio, were married on October 12, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
ROBERT M. RINK, '24, and Miss Jane Boyer Richardson wei-e married October 10, in Goshen, Indiana. 
THOJLA.S L. GOSS, '25, and Miss Resta Irene Bushey were married on October 3, in Harrisburg, Penn. 
WILLIAM R. BELL, '25, and Miss Dorothy C. Efing were married on August 4, in Cleveland. RAYMOND 
D. DOWNS, '26, was one of the ushers. 
PAUL M. BUTLER, '27, and Miss Anne Shirley Briscoe were mai-ried on September 24, at St. Michael's Cathedral, Springfield, Mass. 
JOHN V. McMANMON, '28, and Miss Edith Maiy Riley were manied October 12, in Lowell, Mass. 
BERNARD J. BIRD, '28, and Miss Marie C. Sheridan were married on September 24, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. HOWARD PHALIN, '28, and his wife were the attendants. 
CHARLES J. SHELANSKEY, '28, and Miss Helen Bemadine Loper were married on October 11, at St. Philomena's Church, East Hampton, New York. 
JOHN ROSS HARRINGTON, '29, and Miss Natalie Harding were marr­ied on October 1, in Richmond, Ind. 
CHRISTOPHER WILHELMY, Jr., '29, and Miss Mary E. Kane were married August 17, in Pittsburgh, Pa. 
GEORGE E. DOYLE, Jr., '30, and Miss Kathryn Mary Crogan were married, October 20, at St. Joseph's Church, Buffalo, New York. 
Bibliography 
Fish on Friday—Twelve Stories. Leonard Peeney, S.J. N. Y. Sheed and Ward. 1934. $1.50. 
Catholic Evidence Training Outlines 
—
 Compiled by Maisie Ward and 

F.
 J. Sheed. Sixth Edition, revised and enlarged. N. Y. Sheed and Ward. 1934. $1.00. 



The King of the Archers.—Rene Baz­in. Translated from the French by Mary Russell. N. Y. Macmillan Co. 1934. $2.00. 
Revieio The King of the Archers,—Bazin. In 
 THE ALUMNI 
LEO DURLACHER, '30, and Miss Ruth C. Weske were married October 20, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
ROBERT T. HELLRUNG, '30, and Miss Marie Connors, of St. Louis, were mai-ried October 20, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
JOSEPH BUTLER, '30, and Miss Ruth Jane Turner were married at St. Philomena's Church, Cleveland, on October 6, by Rev. MAURICE GRIF­FIN, '04. ROBERT BUTLER, '34, sen-ed as best man, and JOHN BUT­LER, '27, was soloist. 
JOSEPH GAVIN, '31, and Miss Mary Resch were married on October 6, at Randolph, Ohio. DICK JLV­HONEY, ex. '32, was best man. 
ARTHUR J. McGEE, '31, and Miss Elizabeth J, Cahill were married on October 8, in St. Francis de Sales Church, Utica, New York. EDWARD 
J. SWEENEY, '30, was the best man. 
WILLIAM B. CHAWGO, '31, and Miss Margaret Bernbrock were mar­ried on October 2, at Our Lady of Good Counsel Church, Aurora, 111. 
JAMES K. COLLINS, '32, and Miss Leona Hunt Laurence were married on September 22, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
LOUIS J. DEL PRETE, '32, and Miss Virginia Attanasio were married October 14, at St. Edmund's Church, Brooklyn, New York. 
JOSEPH A. BLANEY, '32, and Miss Margai-et Alice Eliason were married September 1, at Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
WILLIAM M. NEWBOLD, ex. '32, and Miss Grace Elizabeth Rehme were maiTied September 27, at St. Mary's Church, Rushville, Indiana. 
WILLIAM MAGARALL, '32, and Miss Pauline Piatt were married Oct­ober 20, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
EDWARD G. MASON, ex. '33, and Miss Beatrice J. Burlingame were married October 27, at St. Patrick's Church, Eau Claire, Wisconsin. 
The King of the Archers, Rene Bazin has given us a realistic novel with a contemporary yet romantic setting. The homely attractiveness of its in­dustrial background is quite conson­ant with the limpid characterization of those simple souls, Demeester, Adeline, and Claire. The beauty of French family life, with its insistent lure, is delicately drawn in juxtaposi­tion with the more rugged theme of the dignity of labor. Like Louis He­mon in Maria Chapdelaine, Bazin has confined within two covers the essen­
tial charm of simple living. 
• 

GEORGE AUG, '33, and Miss Mar­garet Henry were married October 13, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. JOSEPH CLARK, '33, served as best man. 
ARTHUR C. SMITH, Jr., '33, and Miss Frances Lewinski were married October 6, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
JAMES DUNNIGAN, '34, and Miss Mary Mahin were married October 12, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. WALTER CLEM­ENTS, '14, are the parents of a son, Robert, bom in October, South Bend, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD B. BAIL­EY, OS. '22, announce the arrival of a daughter, Joan Regina Teresa. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM O'NEILL, '28, are the parents of a daughter, Dorothy Marguerite, bom October 1, Cleveland, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. HOWARD RICH­ARDS, OS. '28, announce the arrival of a daughter, Ann Maureen, on September 26. JIM UPRICHAED, '33, is the proud uncle. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD WEPP­NER, '28, are the parents of a son, Ronald, bom September 24., Cleve­land, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK J. HOLD­AMPF, '28, announce the arrival of a son, Frank J., Jr., on September 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. LESTER M. FLEW­ELLING, '28, announce the arrival of a son, John Broderick, October 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. HERMAN J. OHLIG­SCHLAGER, os. '29, announce the arrival of a daughter, Joan Marie, on August 13, 
Mr. and Mrs. LAURENCE P. FITZSIMMONS, '30, announce the birth of a daughter, Kayrl Lu, Sep­tember 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS PURCELL, 
4S 
'30, announce the arrival of a daugh­
ter, Diana Mary, on September 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. ALBERT MALONEY, '31, are the parents of a daughter, Mary, born September 29. 
DEATHS • 
JOHN F. LARKIN, a student at 
Notre Dame in the '70s died in his 
home in Loogootee, Indiana, on Oct­
ober 18. Mr. Larldn was one of the 
prominent residents of the city, hav­
ing lived there since 1860. 
AMBROSE J. SCANLON, os. '07­
'09, died last June 5. He was the 
brother of RAYMOND J. SCANLON, 
'06, and FRANCIS A. SCANLON, '09. 
Through the Religious Bulletin we 
learned of the death of JOHN G. 
HIGGINS, '32, Chicago, Illinois, and 
THOMAS W. REILLY, '10-'13, Cleve­
land, Ohio. 
JAMES 0. HART, '30, was killed 
in an automobile accident in Chicago. 
Word has been received, through 
mail returned, of the death of WILL­
IAM H. KELLY, '19, of Indianapolis, 
Indiana, and of ALOYSIUS L. MAT­
HEY, '25, of LeMars, Iowa. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to: JACK, '30, and DAN CANNON, '30, upon the death of their father; to DICK NASH, '23, upon the death of his father; to LAWRENCE GRODEN, '27, upon the death of his grandfather; and to Rev. FRANCIS J. BOLAND, C.S.C., '18, upon the death of his mother. 
PERSONALS 
Before 1880 
HENRY NEWMARK sends an en­ticing postcard from Los Angeles where he is settled for the winter at the Hotel Park Vista, 626 South Alvarado Street, and waiting, in­cidentally, for the Southern Califor­nia game on December 8. 
• 1880-1885 
JOE SMITH came down from Chi­cago to add his rain-laden cheers to the victory music at the Carnegie Tech game. 
• 
1887 
WARREN CARTIER was much in evidence among those who saw and were cheered by the notable Purdue victory. 
• 
1893 
JIM McKEE accompanied a party of friends up from Versailles, Ken­tucky, for the Purdue game and spent many happy hours talking over the old days with Professors Ackermann and Maurus, Father John W. Cava­naugh and others, Jim also came up to the campus last summer to intro­duce a prospective student from Ver­sailles to the glories of Notre Dame. 

The T^otre 'J>ame cAlumnus 
1894 
MAURICE KIRBY, of Lansing, Michigan, was one of the 45,000, more or less, who dropped in for a few hours to see Notre Dame score three touchdowns in one quarter against Purdue. 
HUGH O'DOJWELL spent several leisurely days at the University late in September, much to the delight of all his many friends on the campus. Recently returned from Russia, Hugh had just attended the World's Fair. He combined his intimate knowledge of the newspaper field with his trav­els in Russia to give Doctor Cooney's journalists a fascinating talk while he was here. Leaving, he promised to cut down in the future the interval of ten years that had elapsed since his previous visit to Notre Dame. 
• 
1897 
JIM DELANEY jumped the pudd­les and dashed between the rain drops to see Notre Dame take that moist encounter from Carnegie Tech. Jim is in Chicago. 
1901 
JIM RECORD, with Mrs. Record, came up from Texas for the Texas game and saw many of his friends on the campus, among them Father Eugene Burke, head of the Depart­ment of English and the new maestro of Washington Hall entertainment. 
• 1902 

Senator GEORGE MAYPOLE, of Chicago and Springfield, Illinois was down for the Texas and Carnegie Tech games, and, although the Alum­ni Oflice scout didn't see him then, very probably for the Purdue game also. 
PEACHES O'NEIL was a figure familiar to many when he was dash­ing around the campus just before the Purdue game. 
• 

1904 
Through an oversight BOB PROC­TOR reported in the October ALUM­NUS that BYRON KANALEY and he had represented the class of 1904 at last summer's LajTnen's Retreat TOM JONES, M.A. '04, corrected the mistake with the information that he had been present at each retreat for many years past, including the one in 1934, and that FATHER THOMAS 
P. IRVING, '04, had celebrated the Mass for deceased retreatants at this year's gathering. So much, gladly, for the sake of accuracy and well-deserved credit. 
Tom, who is treasurer of the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis and lives at 828 North Rural Street, added in his letter to Bob Proctor that his son ivill be ordained in Sacred Heart Church next June and that his young­November, 1934 
est daughter has entered St. Marjr's Academy for the present year. Tom thinks he is the only '04 man with a son in the religious life. 

JUDGE THOMAS D. LYONS is receiving widespread commendation for his courageous action against rob­bers and burglars in the Tulsa, Okla­homa territory. The Tulsa World re­ported on Sept. 29 that Judge Lyons, presiding over the criminal assign­ment in district court, had already meted out seven life sentences as well as two five-year terms. 
Said Judge Lyons in sentencing two highwajrmen; "We have a crime wave in the United States and it is as bad as war. We used to think that there was something to this thing of try­ing to reclaim criminals and reform them. A lot of ladies' aid societies and a lot of female men used to work on that proposition. They had great sympathy when the murder came into court. "The murdered man in his grave was forgotten. The criminals came out of the penitentiary due to misplaced sentimentality an d shot down oflicers of the law who take their lives in their hands every day. Not one day goes by but what you have the city and county officers risk­ing their lives to protect society." 
• 1905 
DAN O'CONNOR made another of his welcome visits to the campus when he was down from Chicago for the Purdue game. 
Also, from his office at 10 South La Salle St., Chicago, he very thought­fully sent a clipping from the Chicago Neiv World concerning Rev. Mother 
M. CoUette, Abbess of the Poor Clare Monastery, Laflin and S3rd Streets, Chicago. Mother CoUette, a sister of REV. HENRY M. KEMPER, '05, of Kerrville, Texas, on October 11, 12 and 13 observed the fiftieth anniver­sary of her religious profession. Most Rev. Edward F. Hoban, bishop of Rockford, Illinois, and Most Rev. W. 
D. O'Brien, auxiliary Bishop of Chi­cago, were among the many promi­nent clergy who assisted with the ceremonies. 
Dan also sent word that his daugh­ter. Sister M. Helene, 0. P., hasbeen sent to Rome to pursue her studies in art and to work for her master's de­gree. Sister Helene's headquarters are in Adrian, Michigan. 
• 1906 
CHARLIE LOESCH was one of the many Clevelanders who saw the Hoosier civil warfare on October 13. Charlie lives at 16708 Clifton Boule­vard, Cleveland, and is connected with the sales department of the Per­fection Stove Company, Cleveland. 
HAROLD FISHER stopped in with a Chicago greetings when he came down with Joe Smith and Jim Delan­ey for the Carnegie Tech game. 
Novtmbtr, 1934 The fjotre 'Dame cAlumnus 
1909 
JOHN DIENER, chief executive of 

Green Bay, Wisconsin, saw Notre 
Dame "take" Carnegie Tech. John 
was very much in the national picture 
this summer when he introduced 
President Roosevelt on the occasion 
of the President's address (broadcast 
by national hook-up) in Green Bay 
and rode with him in the parade 
which was a feature of this day of 
days in Wisconsin. 
• 

1910 
The team of JOHN MURPHY and HARRY MILLER were "in" from Cleveland for the Purdue game and Father MIKE MORIARITY reported for the Carnegie Tech game. 
• 1912 
Just received a letter from FAB­LAN N. JOHNSTON of New Orleans, La., containing a challenge to the entire class which reads thus: 
"I have not made an official report for a long time but I dare say that I have hung up a record that the other members of '12 cannot equal. I have a family of ten children, five boys and five girls. The oldest, 19, en­tered the Jesuit Novitiate this sum­mer. The youngest, six months old, has not yet expressed her preference for station in life. 
"About two and a half years ago, when we were enjoying the depres­sion at its height, I went into business for myself as a Consulting Engineer and Manufacturers Agent and am glad to say that business has been on a constant increase and I am getting the breaks in this section. 
"I had the pleasure this past sum­mer of sepnding a day at Notre Dame with Father O'Hara, who by the way introduced me to Mrs. Johnston, and as she was with me, needless to say we had a most pleasant and enjoyable \isit." 
B. J. KAISER. 

• 1914 
TORGUS "TURK" OAAS, Butte, Montana, famous football figure of the Rockne playing era, saw with pleasure the defeat which Notre Dame handed to Carnegie Tech on October 20. Turk had come on from Butte, where he is a superintendent in the mining industiy, to Chicago on business. 
• 1916 
FATHER VINCENT MOONEY, Washingrton, D. C, who is director of the Catholic Youth Bureau of the Na­tional Catholic Welfare Conference, gave his personal, on-the-spot appro­val to the Carnegie Tech victory. And it goes without saying, that another dynamic member of the class, TIMO­THY PATRICK GALVIN, president of the Alumni Association, has been present for all the home games. 
1919 
ART WEINRICH send with his dues a very thoughtful note about MARTIN LAMMERS who stopped in Chicago on his way to the National Insurance Convention in Milwaukee in September. Martin is manager of the Continental American Life Insur­ance Company, 701 Franklin Trust Building, Philadelphia. ART is with 
L. J. Sheridan & Co., One North La Salle Street, Chicago, a real estate organization. 
1921 
ARCH WARD, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, handled the Texas game for his paper. And JACK KEIWTY, with his wife, of Newcastle, Pennsylvania,, were here for the Carnegie Tech game. 
1922 
GERRY ASHE spent several active hours at the University on October 3. With him was Miss ]^thryn McDon­ald, a relative, of Beverly Hills, Cali­fornia, whose hospitality is a pleasant memory to many of the Notre Dame football visitors to Los Angeles. The Kid is working in Buffalo now and living at the Buffalo Athletic Club, but he spends his week-ends in Roch­ester. 
LEFTY STEINLE, of Akron, helped win the Carnegie Tech game by his presence on that wet day. 
1923 
HARRY J. CULLEN, '23, and James E. True have announced the formation of H. J. CuUen & Co., 25 Broadway, New York, for the ti^ns­action of a general brokerage busi­ness in over-the-counter securities. 
RED SHEA and PRANK WALL­ACE were on the campus for the Texas game and DAN FOLEY, of the Kansas City and Fort Leavenworth Foleys, came up to see the Carnegie Tech game and to talk things over with BILL SHEEHAN, his old pal of Notre Dame ball-plajing days. 
FRANK GALVIN, of the Hammond Galvins, made the campus his head­quartei"s during October. 
1924 
AL BOEHM and RAY KOHIN had a pleasant chat in the Alumni Office when both of them stopped in after the Purdue victory. Ray, who is with the Midland United Company, Peoples 
•Gas Building, Chicago, had come down with Mrs. Kohin for the game and to spend the week-end with his sister and brother-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. RAY HOYER, and other South Bend friends. Al is living at the Fullerton Plaza Hotel, 420 Fullerton Parkway, Chicago. 
1925 
BILL CERNEY, fullback with EL­MER LAYDEN on the Four Horse­men team, is the new coach in charge of the "B"' footbaU teams at Notre Dame. In order to give more individ­ual attention to players, Elmer found it necessary to split up the squad. Six teams comprise the varsity outfit and six teams the "B" contingent. Any player may at any time be moved from the "B" squad to the varsity or vice versa. 
Bill was for seven years backfield coach at the University of North Ca­rolina. He completed Ws contract last June and submitted his resignation at that time along with Chuck Collins, the head coach. 
FATHER JOHN KELLEY stopped in at the office with the news that HAROLD WATSON, of MHwaukee, had been admitted to the bar in In­diana. No further word as to Har­old's plans. 
BERNIE LTVERGOOD, of CWca­go, helped his teammate, ELMER LAYDEN, win the Texas and the Purdue games. WILLARD JONES, Dixon's leading mortician, managed to get a seat on the five-yard line from brother HERB and thus saw the Texas battle. 
1925 was further represented at the Texas game by BEN KESTING and his wife. And JOHN KELLEY, of Michigan City, county surveyor of La Porte county, and BILL HURLEY, of Saginaw, checked in for the Pur­due game. 
• 

1926 
CLEM CROWE took a day off from his duties at Xavier, Cincinnati, and saw N. D. defeat Purdue. FRAN­CIS "LEW" CODY, of Chicago, did likeiivise. And BOB DIXON repre­sented the Dixon Dixons at the Texas game. 
• 

1927 
AL SMITH, of LaPorte, Indiana, PRINCE SLAVEN, of Galesburg, Illinois, and ART HOHMANN, of Rochester, New York, all stopped in to greet the Alumni Office on the day of the Purdue game. 
• 

1929 
PAU L BARTHOLOMEW, Notre Dame professor, conveys the news that he stopped in Lorain, Ohio this summer to see JOSEPH SVETE. Joe has a promising law practice. Paul also reports that CLAYTON WOOD­RUFF visited the campus recently and that MARCELLUS KIRCHNER has a good radio service business in Pine Bluff, Arkansas. 
JOHN DOARN, BOB TlfLER, FRANK DOAN and JOHN DOEGAN all shed tears in the stadium when JACK CHEVIGNY'S charges went home with a victory on October 6. But BART McHUGH, now an India­
The ?^ofre "Dame c4lumnus November, 1934 
napolis i-esident, was among cheerers when he was here for the Purdue game. 
1930 
BOB HELLRUNG was one of the bridegrooms who started manied life at the Carnegie Tech game. Bob and Marie Connors, both of St. Louis, were man-ied on the morning of Oct. 20 in the Log Chapel-
MALCOLM TROMBLEY and JIM SULLIVAN, both of Deti-oit, were here for the Purdue game. 
EABBI PHILIP S. GEEENSTEIN, 
M. A. '30, former head of the Sinai synagogue in South Bend, was for­mally ordained recently as head of the Temple Ashkenaz, near Cam­bridge, Massachusetts. 
JOHN O'DONNELL is state super­
visor of personnel for the Home 
Owners' Loan Corporation in New 
Jersey. His office is at 20 Washing­
ton Place, Newai-k. 
ZENO STAUDT, C.L.U., is assist­
ant manager for Ohio of the Central 
Life Assurance Society. He offices 
at 925 Renkert Building, Canton. 
JIM COSTELLO was married on August 4 to Miss Florence Robinson in St. Rose of Lima Church, Newark, New Jersey. Present to witness the event were JACK KEEFFE and BILL CARL, '31. 
• 1931 
WALT BEESLEY was another of 
the boys who floated in for the Carne­
gie Tech game—and floated is the 
word, considering the weather. 
TOM MONAHAN has deserted Chi­
cago after three years and is now in 
the broom corn business with his 
father's company at Areola, Illinois. 
He says that he is much pleased with 
the change. PAT GOGGIN, '30, is 
in the lumber business with his father 
in Areola, according to Tom, and 
PAUL GRANT, '31, is working for 
the Central Illinois Public Service 
Company in Mattoon. 
Here is my annual letter about the members of '31. Seems as though most of them are secret operatives and are backward in letting persons know of their whereabouts. BILL MAGARRALL took the occasion of the Carnegie Tech game to come down to the Log Chapel and get him­self married. BER T AIALONEY spent a few dimes for cigars this past month when he let his friends smoke on the birth of his daughter. Other proud fathers are JOE LAUERMAN, of Joan Marie, the knitting mill mag­nate, and BOB BALFE, of Rose Mary, the Horace Greeley of Orlando, Florida. 
JERRY CROWLEY has been re­newing old friendships in New York where he was sent for a month in the interests of the O'Brien Varnish Co., DAN HALPIN took time enough off to view the Purdue game. CLAR­ENCE TAECKENS the Port Huron school master, and JIM McQUADE who is coaching a high school in Sag­inaw, BILL REDMOND, BILL LA­HEY and TOMMY OAKES made up a part of the 45,000 present. Then there were: BOB CUNNINGHAM, assistant manager of the Medinah Club, Chicago; TO M MONAHAN, the broom com broker from Areola; TOM CANNON, Muncie barrister; DON PARTLIN, Chicago organizer, and JOE MUNIZZO, Chicago coun­sellor, all in the city over the Purdue week-end. 
NICK BOHLING, FRAN K Mc-GEEAL, EDDIE RYAN and VINCE PONIC, more Chicago barristers, were on hand for the Texas game. BOURKE MOTSETT is continuing his studies in the American College in Rome and hopes to be ordained in '3G and would enjoy hearing from anyone who has time to write. 
JOE MEITZLER, is running an in­surance agency in Danville and BILL BROWN is traveling for the Frank­fort Distilleries. AUSTIE BOYLE is spending some time in Mexico City. DICK O'DONNELL could not take time enough off for MAGARR.ILL'S wedding. Dick is \vith the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph. JOE MAXWELL is news editor of his home town paper in Pennsylvania. WALT BEESLEY is free-lancing since he left his Utah home. TOMMY YARR and JUDGE CARBERRY are going great wth their John Carroll football team in Cleveland. LARRY KRAL and Mrs. Krai managed to attend the Purdue game. TOM ASHE, still slaving away with the Mellaphone Co., in Rochester, plans on being present at the North­western game as does JOE SCHROE­DER from distant Minneapolis. 
MART DOWNEY is with the Gov­ernor's Relief in Chicago and EDDIE MURRAY is secretary to the Comp­troller of the University. EDDIE is also proud of his affiliation with the Maroon club, South Bend's iinest. In the list published in the October ALUMNUS the name of JOE DEEB'S man'iage was not seen. (Ed's, note: Look again, John, old Pal). RON ZU­DECH is working for a Buffalo radio station and hopes to be able to see the Pitt game. RED WELLS writes that he is one of the up and coming politicians of Paducah and does not believe that Mrs. Wells can spare him long enough for any of the games. But enough for now. Perhaps your correspondent can gamer some more news at the Pittsburgh and North­western games for he hopes to see them. Am still located in the Asso­ciates Bldg., South Bend and would enjoy hearing from anyone who is a good penman. 
JOHN BERGAN. Through BOB RIORDAN, Regis­trar, comes word that MAURICE RE­GAN, Swogerville, Pennsylvania, is 
attending Trinity College, Dubh'n, Ireland, this year. 
• 
1932 
MARCHIE SCHWARTZ, backfield 
coach at the University of Chicago, 
scouted Purdue here on October 13. 
And BILL MAGARALL and his bride 
—they had been married that morn­
ing in the Log Chapel—saw the Car­
negie Tech game. 
JOHN KIENER, after seven 
months of enforced idleness, is up 
and around again and weighed a 
suit-stretching 178 at last reports. His 
condition, he says, is A-1 and he has 
the doctor's permission to return to 
work any time. His pi'esent plan, 
however, is to stay on the safe side 
and remain a gentleman of leisure 
until next spring. Meanwhile he'd 
like to hear often and copiously from 
any of the old crowd. His address 
is 216 Cornwall Road, Rocky River, 
Ohio. 
John's grandfather died last June. Three of his grandchildren and a daughter had gone to Notre Dame, namely, the late GEORGE KIENER, '28, TOM KIENER, '29, and JOHN KIENER, '32 and SISTER MARY ALOYSI, S.N.D., Ph.D. '31. 
• 1933 
J. L. LEISEN, according to his re­cent letter, is employed by the Michi­gan State Board of Tax Administra­tion as an auditor. 
PAUL HOST, publicitj' director of the Catholic Youth Organization in Chicago, has transferred his scene of activitj' to the sales department of Fair Store in the same village. The Fair is one of the largest department stores in Chicago. 
1934 
JACK CLAUDER, of Milwaukee, left his sti-onghold long enough for the Purdue game. And, of course, JIM KEAENS and FRANK LA BORNE represented Chicago at several of the athletic Saturday afternoons which Notre Dame has been presenting all during October. 
ED SEWARD is a senior in phil­osophy at St. Mary's Seminary, 1227 Ansel Road, Cleveland, Ohio. 
DAN BEYCE, of Brooklyn, is in­vestigating English life and manners ^^^th a year at Lincoln College, Ox­ford. 
I regret getting off to such a late stai-t with my duties of class secre­tary, but I hope it will not be too late to enter these few flashes collect­ed at random concerning the boys of '34. 
EGBERT J. HANLEY, Jr., is a "man about" these days in the Chi­cago Board of Trade Building as a member of the Noms Grain Co. 
TOM DUGAN occupies his time be­tween "sleeps" rendering services to the Western News Co. Another news­paper man, JIM KEAENS, as most of us probably know is also exercis­November, 1934 

ing his talents in Chicago as a feature sports writer for the Daily News. 
Frankfort Distilleries Inc., seem to have the liquor situation well in hand. BILL VEENEMAN and RUSS LEONARD (all the way from Lowell, Mass.) are sponsoring operations from the home office in Louisville; while ERN KIEP complements the board of strategy at the Chicago Branch. Em's only complaint is that business leaves fewer convenient week-ends for the Woods than did School. 
JACK KIELY, our budding state's 
The t^ otre 'Dame cA lumnus 
attorney, is attending DePaul Law 
School, Taking a peek at a couple 
.of other students we find BOB COR­
CORAN, that eminent citizen of Pen 
Yan, M.D.'ing in an eastern medical 
school and FRANK LINTON seeking 
his M. A. at Northwestern University. 
That's about all for this time, Jim. 
Perhaps a little appeal to the boys to 
open up about themselves would help 
forth-coming issues. In the mean­
while, best of luck to you and the 
ALUMNUS. 
JIM MOSCOW, 
Class Secretary 

ELEGANT ECHOES FROM ERRANT EICHER 
(Being class notes of many classes and many places) 
Dear Jim: JERRY HAYES' marriage was a h£(ppy surprise. Now that he has joined the ranks of Doctor JIMMY STACK, our o^vn JIM ARMSTRONG, ART HALEY, HERB JONES, etc., there are only a few of us left among the free and the brave. Yesterday I saw PAUL FLEMING in Louisville and he is also a benedict. He is nice­ly situated at the Federal Land Bank of Louisville, where I called on official government business. I did not know that he had been in Kentucky these 14 months and I need not say that it was very pleasant to see him. We are lunching together next week. 
Hurrying along Fourth street at noon yesterday came JO CAV.A.N­AUGH of the summer schools of '24, '25 and '26. She was rushing back to a school—she is a school marm you know—which is only a few blocks from the hotel. Of course, we talked of Hayes, old man Armstrong, DOO­LEY and McGINLEY. I think every­one stopped to see what all the excite­ment was about. 
Speaking of Summer School, I met Father MAURUS McGRATH, O.S.B., at Mass in Jackson, Tennesee. He had stopped oif there enroute to the Monastery with his new N.D. degree. He brought first-hand news of my former roommate, NORB ENGELS, RUFE RAUCH, Armstrong and oth­er Sorin street revelers. 
All of our group from N.D, head­quarters at Park and 86th street have left New York except Dr. TOMMY SHEEN, '21. I believe he and JIM­MY RIZER are sharing an apart­ment together in the Villege. Tom­my's office is in the Medical Cham­ber building on East 54th street. I am a poor correspondent but BER­NIE CONROY owes me a letter. I have had no recent news from "Yawn and Stretch" —i.e., DANNY CAN­NON and JOHN RIORDAN. JIM RIZER, by the way, is now working for the mimicipal government. 
Undoubtedly you have NOR B CHRISTMAN'S new address at Mem­phis. BILL ENGELS has left Green Bay to take up a fine teaching job at the University of California. BOB KIRBY has just been elected Presi­dent of the Junior Chamber of Com­merce of. the State of Indiana. JOE McNAMARA, whom I saw in Indian­apolis recently, is doing some splen­did work in the office of the State At­torney General. Someone told me that the time is not far off when he will be heading towards Washington. FRANK MCCARTHY continues to be active in the national affairs of the Yoimg Democratic clubs of America. 
AMBROSE O'CONNELL has been very busy in his official position of executive assistant to the Postmaster General. He and Mr. Farley were in Chicago recently. 
WALTER O'KEEFE, '21, -svill be the master of ceremonies at the Essex House in New York when Glen Gray's orchestra re-opens there. FATHER MCGINN and I had a nice visit with him and Mrs. O'Keefe the last time he appeared at the Earle Theatre in Washington. Also according to Va­riety, WILLIAM ANTHONY Mc-GUIRE has been suffering vdth an attack of pleuresy. I suppose you saw the recent issue of Vanity Fair which drew attention to the marked resemblance between J, P. McEVOY, '06, and Einstein and also between CHARLIE BUTTERWORTH '24 and George Arliss? 
JACK CHEVIGNY is heard each Wednesday in the South as a sports commentary over Station KNOW, Austin, Texas, and the SBC chain. 
I expect to have lunch vnth. BOTTS CROWLEY on Friday. He is in the insurance business, having left Spaul­ding's recently. BART McHUGH is practicing law. I have been very busy here and have been unable to get in touch with anyone but I will give your greetings to any of our mutual friends that I see. 
I was sorry that I missed you in Washington last week, but CHARLIE MANNIX tells me that he spent some time with you; so you were in good hands. There were several things I wanted to hash over with you, but they will have to wait until later. Perhaps I shall see you up at Cleve­land at the Navy game. Sincerely, HENRY WATTS EICHER 
^Purely youll want to make stopovers. It may be in Honolulu, Kobe. Shanghai, Manila, Bombay. Or per­haps at ports in Egypt or Europe. 
President Liners let you stopover in any or all of the many ports in their Round the World itinerary . . . .visit ashore or make sidetrips. Then continue on die next or a later of these liners that sail every week from California via Hawaii and the Sunshine Route, or via the fast Short Route from Seattle, to the Orient . . . and on fortnightly Round the World. 
You may circle the globe by President Liner in no more than 85 days. Or you may take the two full yeais your ticket allows. This fare takes you. hometown to hometown. 
TH£ 
HRS1 HISS 

Riekshaa may be hired for thirty cents a day 
President Linets are famed for easy-riding speed . . . and luxury and gaiety. Every stateroom is outside, large and airy, vdth real beds. Decks are broad and there is an outdoor swimming pool on every liner. 
Your own travel agent, or any of our offices (New York. Boston. Washington. D.C., Toronto, Chicago. Cleveland) will be glad to tell you all about the President Uners. They'll be happy to tell you too, of other President Liner trips. . . between New York. Havana, Panama and California (and back by sea or rail) and roundtrips to the Orient. 
Stmuliip UKS ••< 
117663 
I.m no dirt larmer tui I ^\^as Lrouglit up on a ioLacco farm and I know mild ripe toLacco... 
//are a Chesterfield 
© 193-1, LiccETT A: Myrns TOBACCO CO. 

mMmgmmmmsmmm'mi^mmmmimammmm
-•:.' ::'-^;Li- ::-; i'j-t-'-i-'rS^.-.-'-r. :-^:>S-:'-~V^.i? •;£'-^i':Vv;-:nt->:^ .C-ii>-.:-^'^^, ^,^:'.L4-;lrs<fe.Wi^ 
'':^:--Mms^:^^. 
:'-y^iV> 
wmkmsmmmmm 
'r-^v,-V-h., 

^J:5a> 
.-'-.•>:^'y-. 
?vi^r^ai^:: 

mmmsm 
^:^:i^:^?:^i 


'le^fggl^ic =lG^f? 
t 
FOREWORD 

'H E task of compiling an Alumni Directory is one which no amount of explanation can describe adequately. 
Suffice it for this Foreword to state that the percentage of Questionnaires returned and the efforts of the Alumni OSics to locate alumni whose mailing addresses are unknown do not yet justify the work and expense of a Directory in the full sense and scope of service usually connoted. 
Similarly, efforts to incorporate in this Directory those non-graduates who, everywhere, are a loyal and interested part of the Club organizations, are far from complete enough to permit fair treatment. 
But, to hasten the service which some form of Directory can render, and to secure, we hope, an interest which will complete the return of the Questionnaires and the supple­menting of knott-n addresses, we are issuing this printed Duplicate of the Alumnus Mailing List. 
This list includes the present mailing address of all known graduates of the University, and those non-graduates who have been elected to the Association through the provisions of the Constitution. 
I 

It is arranged geographically, the States in alphabetical order, the cities within the State 
f in alphabetical order, and the alumni within the city in alphabetical order. W e felt that this form would be of greatest service to alumni traveling, and to the Club organizations. 
Supplementing the major Directory are separate lists of Honorary Degree Holders and Deceased Members of the Association. 
Corrections, which will undoubtedly be many, are solicited. We sincerely trust that this Directory will be of great service, incomplete as it is. And, particularly, we hope that another year will see the return of Questionnaires complete enough to permit a real Directory—Class, Alphabetical, Geographical, and Professional. 
Just one thing more—the machinery of printing requires several weeks. In that time many changes of address occur. Those who notify us within this imfortunate period are asked to be patient with the Directory in its failure to contain the change. 
JAMES E . ARMSTHONG 
Alttmni Secretary 
4(sAStQ&s\<= 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
ALASKA HOT SPRINGS NATIONAL PARK LOS ANGELES 
FAIRBANKS PBESTON, Charlei W., B.C.S. 1933 Fairbanks, Alaska 
ALABAMA 

CULLMAN AKLRICHS, Emil. A.B. 1894 Box 103, Cullman, Alabama 
FAIKFIELD BERSCHEID, John P., LL.B. 1929 4823 Parkway, Fairfield, Alabama 
MONTGOMERY YUNG, John A., A.B. 1925 Narrow Lane Rd., Montgomery, Alabama 
TUSCALOOSA THOMAS, Francis W., LL.B. 1923 University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, Ala. 
ARIZONA 

DOUGLAS ' FORD, Wmiam B., Ph.B. For. Com. '33 649 Ninth St, Douslas, Arizona 
FLAGSTAFF BABBITT, Edwin D. os. '07, el. '26 SOS N. Verde St, Flagstaff, Arizona 
GLOBE KENDALL, Robert D. B.C.S. 1931 Box 1716, Globe, Arizona 
NOGALES ROBINS, James V., LL.B. 1914 220 Fajarito St, Nogales, Arizona 
PEORIA MEHREN, Edward W., A.B. 1932 Rancho Santa Maria, Peoria, Arizona 
PHOENIX ANDERSON, Robert E., M.E. 1908 223 E. Culver, Phoenix, Arizona 
CAROLLO, John A„ B.S. in C.B. 1927 1602 W. Oak St, PhoenLx, Arizona 
DANCH, Julius J., LL.B. 1925 1609 Vf. Willetta St. Phoenix, Arizona 
HILKERT. E. J., LL.B. 1922 Box 62, Phoenix, Arizona 
LEHNERT, Lloyd H., B.S. 1929 308 N, 5th Ave., Phoenix, Arizona 
MALAY, Thomas J., A.B. 1926 
C.OArizona Labor Journal 219 EUis BIdg., Phoenix, Arizona 

PBESCOTT FLINN, John S., B.S. 1930 102 Gurley Ave., Prescott, Arizona 
TUCSON BARRY, James D., A.B. 1S97 Consolidated Bank BIdg., Tucson, Arizona 
COLUNS, Edmond A., os. '28, El. 1932 2027 E. 2nd St, Tucson, Arizona 
REBEIL, Stephen W., B.C.S. 1925 620 N. 6th Ave., Tucson, Arizona 
\VHITE, Lawrence D., A.B. 1928 1710 E. 2nd St, Tucson, Arizona 
ARKANSAS 

CAMDEN ROTHERT, Hugo C, B.S.C.E. 1887 Camden, Arkansas 
ROTHERT, Matthew H., B.S. 1924 Camden, Arkansas 
CONWAY HIECEL. Alfred J., B.S.E.E. 1934 519 Ash St, Conway, Arlcansas 
FORT SJIITH MALCOLM, Janes A., B.S. Arch. E. 1933 300 N. 14th St, Fort Smith, Arkansas 
LEPORE, Donald A., LL3 . 1918 62755 Central Ave., Hot Springs National Park, Arkansas 
LITTLE HOCK 

BALDWIN, Warren, Com. 1913 2424 Louisiana St , Little Hock, Arkansas 
BRIZZALARA, Jr., Aristo, LL.B. 1913 523 Crest^vood Dr., Little Hock, Arkansas 
EICKHOFF, Charles J., A.B. 1930 910 McGowan, Little Hock, Arkansas 
PIGGOTT 

PFEIFFER. Karl G., os. '17, el. 1929 Piggott, Arkansas 
PINE BLUFF 

KIRCHNER, Marcellus C. B.S.KE. 1929 412 W. 6th Ave., Fine Bluff, Arkansas 
CALIFORNIA 

ALAMEDA FUNKE, Arthur M., C.K 1S95 1204 Lafayette St, Alameda, Calif. 
MCCARTHY, Joseph W., B.C.S. 1925 1204 Lafayette St, Alameda. Calif. 
TERRY, Dr. S. P., os. 1883 1834 San Jose Ave., Alameda, Calif. 
ALHAMBHA 

SWEET, George H., os. '92 el. '25 1836 S. Curtis, Alhambra. Calif. 
ARCADIA THOMPSON, Harold F.. B.S. 1924 Box 125-A, Fairview Ave. Arcadia, Calif. 
ASSOCIATED 

PERSYN, Albert A., B.S. Ch.E. 1927 
C.OAssociated Oil Co., Research Dept, Associated. Calif. 
AZUSA 

BURGHART, William T., A.B. 1932 OH) West Slope Const Co., Azusa. Calif. 
BERKELEY 

SHERRY, Steven E., os. 1904 2644 Haslo St., Berkeley. Calif. 
WASSON. James, C.B. 1913 Palmolive-Pcet Co., Sta. A., • Berkeley, Calif. 
BEVERLY HILLS 

CUSACK, William. LL.B. 1914 256 Crescent Drive. Beverly Hills. Calif. 
GLENDALE FELDMAN, Edward F., Ph.G. 1923 616 Ivy St, Glendale, Calif. 
HAYWARD SIASSA, Edward C., J.D. 1933 830 First St, Hayward. Calif. 
HOLLYWOOD AREARN, Thomas J.. Ph.B. Joum. 1924 2749 Hollyridge. Hollywood, Calif. 
EDMONDSON, Delmar J., Ph. B. '18, AM. '21 6400 Dix St, Hollyivood, Calif. 
McEVOY, Joseph P., os. '10, el. '21 Paramount Studios, Hollywood. Calif. 
POYER, Lester P., SJif.E. 1914 1728 N. Van Ness Ave., Hollywood, Calif. 
VEJAR, L. M., A.B. 1934 1524 N. Hobart Blvd.. Hollywood, Calif. 
LONG BEACH DENNY, Hirry B., LL.B. 1922 1016 Security BIdg., Long Beach, Calif. 
FREY, Paul J., Ph.B. Com. 1924 634 Magnolia Ave., Long Beach, Calif. 
MULHOLLAND, Emmet P., LL.B. 1916 1016 Security BIdg.. Long Beach. Calif. 
SHEERAN, Edmond W., Ph. B. Cora. 1931 Local Loan Co., 320 Pine Ave., Long Beach, Calif. 
AGGELER. Mervyn A., B.S.CX. 1928 2896 W. 14th St, Los Angeles, Calif. 
ASHHAN; Chester M., Ph3 . Com. 1930 Kipling Hotel, Los Angeles, Calif. 
BARRY Francis J., A.B. 1903 448 S. Hill St, Los Angeles. Calit 
BERARDI, Louis, Fh.C. 1930 1116% S. Berendo St, Los Angeles. Calif. 
BRESLIN, Dr. Frank J.. LittB. 1913 807 WcsUake Prof. BIdg., Los Angeles, Calif. 
CAMPBELL, Joseph T., os. '76, eL '25 1225 Elden Ave., Los Angeles. CaUf. 
COADY, P. Hoffman, LL.B. 1892.LUI. 1893 1017 Mohawk St, Los Angeles, Calif. 
COSGROVE, Terence B , LL.B. 1906 Los Angeles Athletic Club, 7th & Olive Sts., Los Angeles, Calif. 
CUNNINGHAM, Edw. P., Ph.B. For. Com. '28 1802 Crenshaw Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif. 
CUNNINGHAM, Michael J.. Ph.BJor.Com. '29 100 S. Rossmore Ave., Los Angeles, Calif. 
DALEY, Jr., Joseph A., B.C.S. 1928 836 Third Ave., Los Angeles, Calif. 
DALEY. Lawrence D., B.C.S. 1930 781 Ceres Ave, Los Angeles, Calif. 
DILLON, Terrence J.. B.C.S. 1932 692 S. Kingsley Dr.. Los Angeles. Calif. 
DOCKWEILER. Henry I.. A.B. 1912 1035 Van Nnys BIdg., Los Angeles, Calif. 
DOCKWEILER. Robert R., B.S. 1929 2321 S. Figueroa St, Los Angeles, Calif. 
DOCKWEILER, Thomas A. J., A.B. 1912 27 S t James Park. Los Angeles. Calif. 
ENHNG, Clement J., LL.B. 1926 511 N. Hobart St, Los Angeles. Calif. 
FLEWELLING, Lester M., MJV. Boy Guid. '28 316 N. Union Ave., Los Angeles, Calif. 
FREEZE. Chester D., os. 1910, el. 1920 5640 Franklin Ave., Los Angeles, Calif. 
GASS, Charles S.. LL.B. 1930 2201 Ocean View, Los Angeles, Calif. 
GAVIN. SUphen A., os. '06. el. '25 450 S. Manhattan PL, Los Angeles, Calif. 
GUADNOLA, Joseph P.. LL.B. 1931 4129 S. Bronson Ave.. Los Angeles. Calif. 
HANNIN, Michael P.. C.K 1893 333 S. Irving Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif. 
HEARN, Thomas H., LL.B. 1915 1120 Pacific Finance BIdg., Los Angeles, Calif. 
HEIDELHAN, Eugene J., Ph.B. Com. 1922 200 W. 52nd St, Los Angeles, Calif. 
HERWIT, Daniel N., A.B. 1931 6427 Maryland Dr., Los Angeles, Calif. 
HISS, Joseph P., Pfa.B. For. Com. 1929 215 S. Manhattan PL. Los Angeles, Calif. 
HUGHES, Francis B„ LL.B. 1903 1158 S. Flower St, Los Angeles, Calif. 
KELLY, James W.. el. 1928 4812 Third Ave., Los Angeles, Calif. 
KENNEDY, Eugene H., LL.B. 1922 Los Angeles Athletic Club, IJOS Angeles, Calif. 
KENNEDY. Lawrence W., B.C.S. 1925 • 908 S. Hobart Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif. 
KRUG, Albert L., LittB.. 1902 5429 Ninth Ave., Los Angeles, Calif. 
LIES, Thos. J., B.S. Agri. '23, M.A. '26 Box 235, Palms Sta., Los Angeles, Calif. 
MADDEN, Emmet J., A.B. 27 
800 W. Washington Blvd., 
Los Angeles, Calif. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
MCDONALD, Edwin A., OS. "05. cl. '29 
534 Cotton Exchange Bldg., 
IJOS Angeles, Calif. 

MCDONALD, ccorKe D. LL.B. I916 162 N. Citrus Ave., Los Angeles. Calif. 
MCDONALD, James L., B.C.S. 1930 83G0 N. 4tli SL. LOS Anceles, Cilif. 
McGARRY, Micli:.el J.. LL.B. If94 630 HidEins BldE.. Los Antrcles. Calif. 
McKEON. Judsc Thomas J.. LL.B. 1S90 617 W. 41st St.. Los AnEelcs. Calif. 
MOORE. Lourence A.. Ph. B. For. Com. 1929 1142 S. Oark Dr.. Los Anseles. Cilif. 
MOTT. John G., I.L.B. 1S9S. LitLB. 1S96 
1215 CiHrens B-nk Bide.. 
Los Ansoles, Calif. 

MOTT, ThnmKS !>„ LL-B. 1J=93 182 S. OranKe Dr.. Los Anse'es. Calif. 
MOTT, Jr.. Thom.is T>.. Ph.B. MS. LL.B. '24 182 S. Oranpe Dr.. Los AnKeles, Calif. 
NAUCHTON. Pr. Thomas. A.B. 1SGS 542 N. Las Palmas. Los Anpelcs. Calif. 
O'BRIEN. Frederick J., os. 1890. el. 192C 630 S. Oxford Ave.. Los Anseles. Calif. 
OTT, G. Lawrence, os. I9I8. el. 192S 346^4 S. LaBrea. Los Angeles. Calif. 
RANSTEAn. Norman H.. C.E. 1915 4800 S. Sinte Fe Ave« Los Anceles. Calif. 
REGAN, Willi»m J.. A.B. 1926 2966 W. 9th St., Los Anceles. Calif. 
RTAN. George B., A.B. 1932 532 S. Hohart Blvd.. Los Angeles. Calif. 
SAVAY, Norhert J., LL.B. 1900 947 Suhwpy Terminal Bid?., Los AnReles. Calif. 
SCOTT, JudKe A. A., LL.B. 1922 2505 Sth Ave., Los Anseles. Calif. 
SIDENFADEN, Oscar L.. M.E. 1920 1G09 S. Van Kess Ave., Los Angeles, Calif. 
SIDENFADEN, ^Villiani B., Ph.B.For. Com. '29 1609 S. Van Kess Ave.. Los Angeles, Calif. 
SUTTNER, Joseph M., LL.B. 1919 459 N. Orange Dr., Los Angeles, Calif. 
SWANSON. Plin J.. Ph.B.Cbm. 192.1 696 S. Western Ave., I,os Angeles, Calif. 
VEZIE, H. M-nfred. A.B. 1931. LL.B. 1931 5502 S. Wilton PU Los Angeles, Calif. 
VOGEL, Bion B., B.C.S. 1925 1165 S. Figueroa, Los Angeles. Calif. 
WADDEN, John W., Ph.B. 1907 157 N. Detroit St., Los Angeles. Calif. 
WALSH, Thomas J., LL.B. 1924 143 N. Vendome, Los Angeles, Calif. 
WARD, Leo B.. LUB. 1920 1002 Black Bldg., Los Anseles. Calif. 
WARGIN, Dr. James 1., B.S. 1925 220 University Professional BIdg., Los Angeles, Calif. 
MONROVIA 

WRIGHT. Rohcrt C. S.M.E. 1919 514 Bonita St., Monrovia, Calif. 
MT. VIEW 

ZICKGRAF, Henry P., M.E. 1921 General Delivery, ML View, Calif. 
OAKHURST 

BERDEL. Charles A., B.S. IS74 Oakhurst, Madero Co., Calif. 
ANDREWS, Francis A., L1..B. 1918 6801 Chabot Road, Oakland, Calif. 
GUSHING, Paul J., B.S.C.E. 1931 4615 Edgewood Ave., Oakland, Calif. 
HILL, Robert B., os. 1919, el. 1931 5033 Proctor Ave.. Oakland, Calif. 
KELLT, Edward C, os. 1920 1534 17th Ave., Oakland. Calif. 
MARRA. Francis E.. A.B. 1933 1933 24th Ave.. Oakland. Calif. 
MCDONALD, Robert L., A.B. 1930 1032 Ardmore Ave.. Oakland, Calif. 
ROGERS. Ralph E., MJV. 1934 1744 B. I4th St., Oakland, Calif. 
SHERIDAN, Thomas J. A.B. 1886 2314 Mitchell St., Oakland, Calif. 
CANNING, Fk-ancis E., LL.B. 1914 421 Magnolia Ave.. Oxnard. Calif. 
PIEDMONT 

PARKER, Henry J.. A.B. 1930 16 Loretta Ave.. Piedmont, Calif. 
REDLANDS 

ENGLAND, Edward J., A.B. 1930. LL.B. 1932 618 Third St., Redlands. Calif. 
REDWOOD CITY 

SULLIVAN, Daniel B., LL.B. 1914 Sequoia Bldg., Redwood City, Calif. 
SACRAMENTO PARKER. Howard R., Ph.BJ. 1917 Elks Club.. Sacramento. Calif. 
ROONEY, ^Villiam B.. Ph.B.C. 1924 1616 F St., Sacramento, Calif. 
WILLETT, Albert B.. C.E. 1920 Engineering Dept., State House, Sacramento, Calif. 
SAN DIEGO BACH, James H., C.E. 1907. 1445 B St., Sim Diego, Calif. 
MUDD, Fabian T.. LL.B. 1922 
E. N. Mudd Co., Uni%-ersity Ave., at Kansas St., San Diego, Calif. 

O'TOOLE. James M., A.B. 1929 1830 Third St., San Diego, Calif. 
S.4N FRANCISCO ABBOTT, Bernard J., LL.B. 1927 354 Russ Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 
BOSSHARD, Royal H„ M.E. 1917 324 Sansomc St., San Francisco, Calif. 
BYRNE, William T.. B.S.Phys.E. 1929 Apt., 2. 120 Sanchey St., San Francisco. Calif. 
CULLINAN, Eustace, A.B. 1895 860 Phelan Bldg.. San Francisco, Calif. 
CULLINAN, Matthew I., A.B. 1931 3433 21st St., San Francisco, Calif. 
CULLINAN, Jr., Eustace, A.B. 1925 3433 21st St., San Francisco. Calif. 
CLARK, Joseph A., os. 1886. el. 1925 1273 26th St., San Francisco, Calif. 
DUNNE, Robert V., A.B. 1926 Campbell-Bwald Adv. Agency, San Francisco, Calif. 
FITZPATRICK, Keene P., os. 1911, cl. 1925 820 Kohl Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 
FUITE, Richard J.. Ph.B.C. 1925 1226 Russ Bldg.. San Francisco. Calif. 
HAGENBARTH, Jr.. Frank J., B.C.S. 1927 745 Milts B!dg., San Francisco, Calif. 
HICKEY, David F., A.B. 1928 2185 Hayes, San Francisco. Calif. 
KREUTZER, Mark G., Ph.B.For.Com. 1924 Rm. 524, 311 California St., San Francisco, Calif. 
LANPHIER, Thomas, os. 1928 962 Battery St., San Francisco, Calif. 
MOTT, Y. L., OS. 1898, cl. 1925 Palace Hotel, San Francisco, Calif. 
McINNES, John S.. LL.B. 1922 1855 Sacramento St., San Francisco, Calif. 
MCDONALD, Angus D., OS. '00, el. "13, 65 Market St., LL.D. '31 San Francisco, Calif. 
MCDONALD, Wmiam B.. OS. 1917, el. 1931 839 Howard St, San Francisco, Calif. 
PASCHEL, Philip P.. os. 1887. cl. 1926 318 Kearney St.. San Francisco. Calif. 
SULLIVAN, Robert P.. A.B. 1933 102 Walnut St., San Francisco, Calif. 
TONER. Dr. Joseph M., os. 1900, el. 1926 I Terrace Dr., San Francisco. Calif, 
SAN MATEO 

MEEHAN. M-rtin P.. os. 1914. el. 1930 335 Virginia Ave.. San Mateo. Calif. 
SAN RAPHAEL 

FREITAS. Edward W., A.B. 1928 Box 155, San Raphael, Calif. 
SANTA CLARA SMITH. Maurice F., LL.B. 1921 Santa Clara College, Santa Clara, Calif. 
SHAW, La-wrencc T.. B.S. Agri. 1922 Santa Clara College. Santa Clara, Calif. 
DUNNE, John F.. A.B. 1928 Santa Clara College. Santa Clara, Calif. 
SANTA ROSA CHAIR. Leslie 441 Denton Way, Santa Rosa, Calif, 
SOUTH GATE 

.ROGAN, Edivard J., LL.B. 1924 3810 Santa Ave., South Gate, Calif. 
SOUTH PASADENA CHILCOTE, John H., os. 1892, el. 1926 1120 Mound Ave., South Pasadena, Calif. 
TREFF. H. C. OS. 1891 1818 Mission Rd.. South Pasadena. Calif. 
ST. MARY'S COLLEGE 

HADIGAN. Edward P., LL.B. 1920 Director of Athletics. St. Mary's College, Calif. 
HcNALLY, Vincent A.. A.B. 1927 St. Mary's College. Calif. 
URIAH MCCARTHY , Edward T.. B.S.E.B. 1929 621 N. State St., Ukiah, Calif. 
UNIVERSAL CITY McGUIRE. \Villiam Anthony, cl. 1927 Universal City, Calif. 
VAN NUYS DASCHBACH, Ray J., os. 190S. el. 1929 16624 Ventura Blvd.. V.in Nuys. Calif. 
COLORADO COLORADO SPRINGS 

DILLON, Henry J.. Ch.E. 1926 Joyce Hotel, Colorado Springs, Colo. 
FUCHS, Paul E.. os. 1918. el. 1926 523 N. Weber. Colorado Springs, Colo. 
O'LEARY. Lawrence W., A.B. 1925 329 B. Pikes Peak, Colorado Springs, Colo. 
PECK, Robert A., Min.E. 1923 423 N. Tejon St., Colorado Springs, Colo. 
DEN^'ER BLISH. Eugene S., B.C.S. 1934 1550 Oneida St., Denver, Colo. 
CONWAY. Franklin L., A.B. 1927 1240 Detroit, Denver, Colo. 
OICK. Robert A. A.B. 1329 945 Lincoln St., Denver, Colo. 
DICK, William J., A.B. 1930 945 Lincoln St., Denver, Colo. 
FINSKE, Louis J., LL.B. 1919 1441 Welton St., Denver, Colo. 
FOS:. Robert L., Litt. B. 1901 5730 17th Ave., Parkway, Denver, Colo. 
GUSHUBST. Fred W.. LL.B. 1914 228 S. Ogden St., Denver, Colo. 
HANLON. James F., LL.B. 1918 165Z Glencoe St., Denver, Colo. 
HASKELL. Charles A., LL.B. 1929 3109 Elizabeth St., Denver, Colo. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
HOUGH. Orville L., B.S. 1927 1575 Race St.. Denver. Colo. 
HUMPHREYS. John H.. A.B. 1932 1423 Race St.. Denver. Colo. 
HUMPHREYS. Ravmond M.. Litt.B. 191G 1423 R<ice St, Denver, Colo. 
LAWRENCE. Hnrry W.. Ph.B.Com. 1929' 1951 Lawerence St., "Denver, Colo. 
LOGAN. J-»ne.s P.. Ph.B.J. 1918 L'^'r'n Movinc & S^oraee Co.. 37th & Marion St.. Denver. Colo. 
LONCTEI.L. P. H.. B.S. 1931 815 Madison. Denver. Colo. 
MCCARTHY. Pbiiip B.. A.B. 1927 1440 Curtis St.. Denver. Colo. 
MCCARTHY, Joseph L.. A.B. 1928 
1545 E. 31st Ave.. Denver, Colo. 
McENERY. John J., os. 192G. el. 1934 744 Offden St.. Denver. Colo. 
McEN'RY". Matthew D.. os, 1922. el. 1925 1576 Lincoln St.. Denver, Ctlo. 
MORAN. John R.. LL.B : 1925 Co Continental Oil Co.. Denver. Colo. 
O'HARA. Bart W.. A.B. 1932 1052 Bannock St.. Denver. Colo. 
RODRIGUEZ. Dr. Kcne. Ph.G. 1918 Suite 828. Majestic Bldff.. Denver. Colo. 
SCHERRER. Dr. Elmer A.. C.E. '94. B.S. '95 21S Republic Bidir.. Denver. Colo. 
WALSH. John V., os. 1897 4427 E. 22nd Ave.. Denver. Colo. 
LA JARA 

MURPHY. Paul J.. B.C.S. 19.32 La Jara. Colo. 
SALIDA 

FINN. Edmund J.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 219 F St., Salido, Colo. 
TRINIDAD 

CHACON. Euscbio. LL.B. 1889 420 E. Topeka. Trinid.id. Colo. 
WALSENBURG 

KALJIES. Nicholas M., "Walsenburff. Colo. 
CONNECTICUT 
BRIDGEPORT 

ANDRES, Gerald J. B.S.E.E. 1934 371 Gurdon St.. Bridgeport. Conn. 
ANDRES. Robert R., B.S.E.E. 1930 371 Gurdon St.. Bridfreport, Conn. 
BRENNAN, Daniel E.. A.B. 1934 344 W. Mol*gan Ave.. BridKeport. Conn. 
CARR, Charles D.. M.S. 1931 563 Brook St.. BridKeport. Conn. 
CONROY, John J., A.B. 1931 148 Poplar St., Bridgenort, Conn. 
CORCORAN. Jr.. John T.. LL.B. 1925 732 William St., Bridscport, Conn. 
CULLINAN. John T.. A.B. 1928 116 Elmwood PI., Bridireport, Conn. 
FLAHA^'EN. Wlliam J.. A.B. 1931 19 Bishop Ave., Bridseport. Conn. 
FORREST, James J.. B.C.S. 1934 1470 Park Ave., Bridgeport, Conn. 
HARKABUS. Elmer L.. B.S.Ch.E. 1933 
R. F. D. 3, Bridgeport, Conn. 
HURLEY, Francis H.. Ph.B.Com. 1033 150 \Vhitney Ave., Bridgeport, Conn. 
McGEE, Francis S.. B.C.S. 1933 3248 Main St., Brideeport, Conn. 
McGOVERN. RoEer J., A.B. 1933 865 Clinton Ave., Brideeport, Conn. 
MOLLOY. John G., B.C.S. 1929 S09 Norman St., BridjTeport, Conn. 
MONAHAN. Edward P., A.B. 1934 304 Beechmont Ave.. BridBeport, Conn. 
JIUBPHY. James E.. LL.B. 1922 1115 Main St.. Bridgeport, Conn. 
MURPHY. John A., A.B. 1928 82 Poplar, Bridseport, Conn. 
SIURPHY". John M.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 86 Liberty St.. Bridgeport. Conn. 
MURRAY. William B.. A.B. 1932 115 Broad St.. Bridgeport. Conn. 
O'BRIEN. Jr.. Willinm F.. B.C.S. 1934 639 Wayne St., Bridgeport. Conn. 
O'SIAHONY. Edward J.. B.C.S. 1932 S7S Brooks St.. Bridgeport. Conn. 
PIVARNIK. Joseph J.. A.B. 1934 267 Hallett St. Bridgeport. Conn, 
REDGATE. John C. A.B. 1930 2225 Main St. Bridgeport, Conn. 
REGAN. Joseph H.. B.C.S.. 1934 20 Hough Ave.. Bridgeport, Conn. 
ROONEY. Francis J., B.S. 1930 81 Pierce Ave.. Bridgeport. Conn. 
RUSSO. Joseph B.. B.C.S. 1932 166 Hough Ave.. Bridgeport. Conn. 
TARASOVIC. Thomas J.. B.S. 1932 49 Dover St. Bridgeport. Conn. 
EAST NORWALK 

MCELROY, Leo c, A.B. 1910 Sasqxm Hills, East Norwalk. Conn. 
O'REILLY. Jr.. William E.. Ph.B.Com. 1929 Sasqua Hills, East Norwalk. Conn. 
FAIRFIELD 

BEIRNE, John A.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 73 Sherman St.. Fairfield. Conn. 
BEIRNE. Peter G., Ph.B.Com. 1928 73 Sherman St. Fairfield. Conn. 
STAPLETON, Walter J.. Ph.B. 1924 53 Rowland Rd.. Fairfield. Conn. 
FARMINGTON 

MacDONALD. Wallace A.. B.C.S. 1928 Box 152. Farmington. Conn. 
GLENBROOK 

KENNEDY". James W.. A.B. 1934 111 Midland Ave.. Glenbrook. Conn. 
SHUSTER, George N.. A.B. 1915, A.M. 1920 Lenorc Ave., Glenbrook. Conn. 
GREENWICH 

LOCKE. L. F.. OS. 1921. el. 1930 Indian Field Rd., Greenwich, Conn. 
MULVILLB, Edmund D.. A.B. I9,TO 22 Prospect, Greenwich. Conn. 
HARTFORD 

AHERN, Francis D., Ph.B.Com. 1920 I Webster St, Hartford. Conn. 
CARNEY. John D.. Ph.B.Com. 1932 407 Wethersfield, Hartford, Conn, 
CURRY, James A.. LL.B. 1914 647 Main St, Hartford, Conn. 
CURRY. Thomas B., LL.B. 1914 647 Main St. Hartford, Conn. 
DUQUETTE. James M.. B.S.E.E. 1929 16 Beach St. Hartford. Conn. 
FITZMAURICE. Edmund F.. B.C.S. 1934 70 Cone St. Hartford, Conn. 
FLAHERTY, James F.. Ph.B. 1927 92 Westminster St , Hartford, Conn. 
HAY^S. David V.. Ph.B.Com. 1921 38 Victoria Road. Hartford, Conn. 
LACY, Richard N.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 241 Laurel St., Hartford. Conn. 
SHAY. George D.. A.B. 1930 Sherbrook A.ve.. Hartford. Conn. 
SMITH. John P.. LL.B. 1929 483 Maple Ave.. Hartford. Conn. 
TURLEY. Vincent E., A.B. 1932 404 Farmington Ave., Hartford, Conn. 
KENSINGTON McKEON. Raymond A.. B.S.C.B. 1929 745 Farmington Ave.. Kensington. Conn. 
MERIDEN 

CARROLL. William J.. B.S. 1933 131 Hanover St, Heriden, Conn. 
LYNCH. Cletus E.. Ph.B.Com. 1922 139 Oliver St, Heriden. Conn. 
McMAHON. Paul W.. A.B. 1931 56 Windsor Ave., Meriden, Conn. 
WALSH Edward A., A.B. 1928 Harrington Ave., Meriden. Conn. 
MIDDLETOWN 

MURPHY, James G.. A.B. 1931 101 Broad St, Middletown, Conn. 
."UURPHY. William C. A.B. 1933 101 Broad St . Middletown. Conn. 
NEW BRITAIN 

ClANCI. John M.. A.B. 1929 500 Allen St. New Britain. Conn. 
ERWIN. Georce R. LL.B. 1930 419 Main St„ New Britain. Conn. 
GAFFNEY, Cyril F.. Ph.B.F.C. 1922 Nat'l Bank Bldg., New Britain. Conn. 
HAY'ES. James E.. A.B. 1928 22 Hamilton St.. New Britain. Conn. 
KACPRZYNSKI. John J.. B.C.S. 1931 34 Plymouth St, New Britain. Conn. 
KARNASIEWICZ. Charles F.. A.B. 1934 102 LaSalle St, New Britain. Conn. 
KATA. A. J.. A.B. 1931. LL.B. 1933 270 Broad St, New Britain, Conn. 
VETRANO. S. A.. B.S. 1931 9 Russwin Rd.. New Britain, Conn. 
NEW CANAA'N 
CODY, Thomas P., B.S.Phar. 1931 94 Main St. New Canaan. Conn. 
PANELLA, A. J., B.&Phar. 1934 10 Summer St, New Canaan, Conn. 
NEW HAVEN 

BLONDIN. Paul A.. B.C.S. 1933 175 Dover St, New Haven, Conn. 
CARR. Francis J.. MJl. 1932 34 Woodland St., New Haven. Conn. 
CONTWAY". John J.. M-A. 1926 Boy Life Bureau, Knights of Columbus, New Haven, Conn. 
DUCEY. Charles J.. MJV. 1928 45 Wall St, New Haven, Conn. 
KENNEDY. Joseph K. B.aS. 1932 105 Avon St., New Haven, Conn. 
ORZECHOWSKI. John Joseph. LL.B. 1934 228 Saltonstall Ave.. New Haven, Conn. 
PIONTEK. R. F.. B.C.S. 1934 51 Maltby Place. New Haven. Conn. 
NEW LONDON 

O'HARA. William V.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 80 Waller St, New London, Conn. 
BARRY. Earle J.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 10 Mott Ave.. Norwalk. Conn. 
DEVINE. John A.. B.S. 1934 6 Melbourne Road. Norwalk. Conn. 
McELROY. Paul C. A.B. 1929 Elm Crest. Norwalk. Conn. 
McELROY. Wilbur. BJVrch. 1926 Elm Crest, Norwalk, Conn. 
SOUTH NORWALK HIGGINS. Wlllaid J.. Bell Island, South Norwalk. Conn. 
RIVERSIDE HAMILTON. John W.. B.S.Chem.E. '32 
Box 36. . H.S. '33 
Riverside. Conn. 
STAMFORD D'MURAI.A, Francis J.. A.3. 1931 61 Henry St., Stamford, Ckinn. 
DnFFy. Arthur R.. I,L.B. 1933 205 Cove Ed., Stamford, Conn. 
HARRISON, John F., A.B. 1929. LL.B. I9S3 512 Atlantic St, Stamford, Conn. 
STRATFORD OSEAU. Dr. H. T., B.S. 1922 1949 Main St, Stratford, Conn. 
PATRICK. A. G., B.Arch. 1931 70 Booth St. Stratford, Conn. 
THOMPSONVTLLE FERGUSON, Thomas E., B.C.S. 1920 37 Windsor St, Thompsonville, Conn. 
NIGRO, S. M., A.B. 1932 73 Park Ave., Thompsonville, Conn. 
•WATEEBURY BUCKLEY, Walter W., B.C.S. 1933 74 Columbia Blvd., Waterbury, Conn. 
GAFFNEY, Geonre A., os. 1899 19 Randolph Ave., Waterhury, Conn. 
HANLON, Harold P., B.S.E.E. 1930 181 E. Main, Waterhury, Conn. 
HONAGHAN, James M., Ph.B.Com. 1927 44 Ayer St, Waterhury, Conn. 
MURNANE, Jr., D. Frank, B.C.S. 1932 45 Farmington Ave., Waterhury, Conn. 
ROBINSON, John F., A.B. 1928 32 Farmington Ave., Waterhury, Conn. 
ROBINSON, Joseph H., LL.B. 1931 32 Farmington Ave., Waterhury, Conn. 
SULUVAN, Joseph M., Ph.B.Com. 1929 737 Cooke St. Waterhury, Conn. 
SULLIVAN, •William F.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 737 Cooke St, Waterhury, Conn. 
WESTPORT SCHOMBURG, WUiam, BJ^ch. 1925 Marylea Valley Rd., Weslport, Conn. 
WILLIMANnc MORIARTY, Eugene K., B.S. Phys.Ed. 1928 105 Milk St, WillimanUc, Conn. 
DELAWARE 

^\^IA^NGTON BUTLER. Edward J.. B.S.E.R 1934 2705 Boulevard, Wilmington, Delaware 
WALSH, Joseph A., A.B. 1926 1613 Scott St, Wilmington, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

AHERN, William J., S.KR 1916 600 Gallatin St, N.W., Washington, D. C. 
AMBROSE, Harry IL, BJVrch 1925 1722 19th St, N.W., Washington, D. C. 
ANSBERRY. Timothy T., LL.B. 1893 1317 F. St, N.W.. Washington. D. C. 
ARNOLD. Eugene P., LL.B. 1878. A.B. 1883. 
1633 31st St, N.W., A.M. 1S90 
Washington, D. C. 

ARNOLD, Dr. William H., A.B. "83, A.M. '90 1633 31st St, Washington. D. C. 
ADTH, Andrew C, A.B. 1934 405 Sixth St, S.W., Washington, D. C. 
BACZENAS.'Jr., John T.,.LL.B. 1917 204 10th St, N.E., Washington. D. C. 
BERGMAN, Arthur J., os. 1917, el. 1922 Catholic Universi^, Washington, D. C. 
BON, Francis J., A.B. 1926 Senate Office Bldg.. Washington, D., C. 
BUNGABDEANU, Laurence, Ph.B.Com. 1923 1607 23rd St, N.W., Washington, D. C. 
CAWLEY. Francis R., Ph.B.Com. 1933 1727 Taylor St. N.W, Washington. D. C. 
CLEARY', William H.. A.B. 1931 Hotel Chastleton, Washington, D. C. 
COTTON, Forrest G., LittB. 1924 
C.O Catholic University, Washington, D. C. 

CULLEN, J. Paul. LL.B. 1922 1808 Eye St, N.W., Washington, D. C. 
DUFFICY, Francis J.. Ph.B.Com. 1924 Mayflower Hotel, Washington, D. C. 
EICHER, Henry Watts. OS. 1927. el. 1929 1718 Webster St, N.W., Washington, D. C. 
FAHY. Joseph A., C.E. 1903 2916 28th St, N.W., Washington, D. C. 
FLYNN, Dr. James A., el. 1912 1511 Rhode Island Ave., Washington, D. C. 
FOX, John McDill, A.B. 1909 Catholic University, Washington, D. C. 
FRANK, Felix G.. B.S.Arch. 1932 Arch Dept, Catholic University, Washington, D. C. 
FREDELL, Edwin, os. 1901, el. 1926 C.P.A., Tower Bldg., Washington, D. C. 
GADEK, •William V., B.S. 1931 4412 Greenwich Pkwy., Washington, D. C. 
GAL'VIN. William M., Ph.B. 1914 6508 Kdgewood Ave., Washington, D. C. 
GABVER, John T., A.B. 1932 1210 Perry St, N.E., Washington, D. C. 
HALEY, J. Howard, B.C.S. 1924 Home Owners Loan Corp.. P. O. Bldg., Washington, D. C. 
HA^YES, James D., LL.B. 1917 5115 8th St, N.W., Washington, D. C. 
HOUPPERT, Walter W., LL.B. 1925 Home Owner's Loan Corp., Standard Oil Bldg., Washington, D. C. 
IRVIN, Paul R., A.B. 1930 1824 Belmont Rd., Washington, D. C. 
KEEGAN. Thomas A, A.B. 1930 Legal Dept., Emergency Dept of Public Works, Washington, D. C. 
KENKEL, J. Leonard, A.B. 1933 Apt 403, 2440 16th St, Washington, D. C. 
KERSJES, Francis G., B.C.S. 1931 317 Chastleton Hotel. Washington. D, C. 
EIRK, Harry J.. C.E. 1913 3002 25th St. N.E.. Washington. D. C. 
LA'VELLE, Vincent P., B.C.S. 1932 928 G Place, Washington. D. C. 
LEH)L\N, David S., A.B. 1929 The Lee House, 15th & L Streets, Washington, D. C. 
LEY. Murray H., A.B. 1930 Wardman Park Hotel, Washington, D. C. 
LODA, Alfred J., A.B. 1925 Senate Office Bldg., Washington. D. C. 
LOSHBOUGH, Bernard E., B.Arch. 1929 2019 Hillyer PI., N.W., Washington, D. C. 
MARKEY, Thomas S., A.B. 1929 1409 16th St, N.W., Washington, D. C. 
McCABE, Clarence J.. Ph^Joum . 1922 1312 Mass. Ave., Washington, D. C. 
mXCHELL, Hugh C, C.E. 1895, B.S. 1898 3038 Newark St, Washington, D. C. 
MONTAVON, William F., A.B. 1898 1312 Mass. Ave., Washington, D. C. 
MONTEDONICO, Joseph D., A.B. 1928 1601 Argonne PI., Washington, D. C. 
MORRISSEY. Walter F., B.C.S., For. Com. '29 Home Owners Loan Corp., Standard Oil Bldg., Washington, D. C. 
MULCAHY, Capt Francis P., Ph.B. 1914 Aviation Section, Headquarters Marine Corps., Washington, D. C. 
MURPHY. Elmer J.. LittB. 1897 2308 19Ui St, N.W., Washington, D. C, 
NEILL. Dr. Charles P.. A-M. 1893, LL.D. 1908 1107 Investment Bldg., Washington, D. C. 
NEWBOLD. Robert G„ A.B. 1929 1523 16th St, N.W., Washington, D. C. 
O'CONNELL, Ambrose A., Ph.B. 1907 Ofitice of Postmaster General, Washington. D. C. 
O'HANLON. J. R.. B.S.E.E. 1934 7164 Alaska Ave.. Washington, D. C. 
O'HARA. Francis J.. C.E. 1899 Catholic University, Washington, D. C. 
O'NEILL, Jr., John P., B.S.Arch. 1929 2019 Hillyer PL. N.W., Washington. D. C. 
POLLARD. •Willard I... B.S.Ch. 1933 1731 19th St, N.W.. Washington. D. C. 
REIMAN. P. A.. B.S. 1931 2100 19th St, N.W., Washington, D. C. 
REINHART, Lambert K.. B.C.S. For. Cora, "31 CO N. C. W. C, 1312 Mass. Ave., Washington, D. C. 
RICE, Rudolph J., os. 1915 1601 Hobart St, Washington, D. C. 
RODDY, J. Harold, A.B. 1933 1437 Rhode Island Ave., N.W., Washington. D. C. 
SltaTH, Jr.. Robert L., A.B. 1931 1669 Columbia Rd., N.W., Washington, D. C. 
STANTON, Waiter E., LL.B. 1930 Legal Dept, Emergency Dept of Public Works, Washington, D. C. 
THODE, Edward K., A.B. 1924 1803 Biltmore St, N.W., Apt 806, Washington, D. C. 
TOEPP, Burton E.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 c-o Associates Investment Co.. Washington. D. C. 
•VLK, George G., A.B. 1931 120-B Westchester Apts., Washington, D. C. 
WILE, Frederic W., os. 1891. LL.D. 1924 3313 16th St. N.W., Washington, D. C. 
ZAHM, Albert F., A.B. '83, A.M. "85, M.S. "90 Cosmos Club, LL.D. '17 Washington, D. C. 
FLORIDA 
FOLEY 

FOLEY, Harold S., Ph. B. Com. 1921 Foley, Pla. 
FT. LAUDERDALE 

BALFE, Robert C, A.B. 1931 F t Lauderdale Daily News, F t Lauderdale, Fla. 
CULLINAN, Frank L., Ph. B. 1918 1501 N. R 4th PI., F t Lauderdale, Fla. 
HOLLYIYOOD 

WALLACE, Francis. Litt B. 1923 
P. O. Box 728, Hollywood, Fla. 
JACKSONVILLE 

FOLEY. Lester •William, Litt. B. 1924 c-o Foley Lumber Co., Jacksonville, Fla. 
FOLEY, Hilton J., A.B. 1933 2004 Henchell Ave., Jacksonville, Fla. 
HUGHES. John M., A.B. 1931 1854 Montgomery PI., Jacksonville, Fla. 
NEU, Raymond P., B.C.S. 1931 B t 2, Box 529, Jacksonville, Fla. 
RARAIM, F. J., Ph.B. Com. 1931 1518 Enterprise St, Jacksonville, Fla. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
WORTH. Robert M., A.B. 1925 2969 Herschell St., Jacksonville. Fla. 
HIAia nTZPATRICK. Josepli E., Pli.B.C. 1925 Fla. Nat'l Bank & Trust Co., Miami, Fla. 
GIBLIN. Vincent C, LL.B. 1918 409 N. B. 34tli St., Miami, Fla. 
MIAMI BEACH O'NEIL, Tlioinas F., Pli.B. 1913 3630 Flamingo Dr., Miami Beach, Fla. 
ST. PETERSBURG VOIGT, John R., B.S.BioI. 1905 515 20tli Ave., N.E., St. Petershure, Fla. 
TAMPA O'BRIEN, Matthew M., A.B. 1931 6210 Bayshore Blvd., Tampa, Fla. 
O'BRIEN, Michael J.. A.B. 1931 6210 Bayshore Blvd., Tampa, Fla. 
ST. JOHN. Leo, B.S.M.E. 1926 112 S. Delaware Ave., Tampa, Fla. 
WINTER HAVEN KEEFE, Joseph E.. Ph.B.Com. 1929 Winter Haven, Fla. 
GEORGIA ATHENS ENRIGHT. Rex R, LL.B. 1926 University of Georgia, Athens, Ga. 
MEHRE, Harry J., Ph.B. Joum. 1922 150 Morton Ave., Athens, Ga. 
ATLANTA CANNON, John J., A.B. 1930 Athletic Dept., Georgia Tech., Atlanta, Ga. 
SINNOTT. Myles H., Ph.B. 1910 Studcbaker Corp., 560 W. Peachtree St., Atlanta. Ga. 
TORBETT. Matthew B., os. 1873 
P. O. Box 731. Atlanta. Ga. 
ROME FAHV, Bernard S.. A.B. 1905 234 Broad St., Rome. Ga. 
SAVANNAH EMERICK. Francis H.. A.B. 1932 114 E. 52nd St., Savannah, Ga. 
POWERS. Charles F., B.S.C.B. 1931 424 Habersham St., Savannah. Ga. 
IDAHO BOISE CLARK. David W.. A.B. 1922 
C.OAttorney General's Office. Boise. Idaho 

JONES. Jr.. Thomas J.. LL.B. 1929 1111 O'Farrell St. Boise. Idaho 
NEITZEC. Francis H.. M.E. 1923 705 N. 9th St., Boise, Idaho 
NEITZEL, John M.. A.B. 1925 705 N. 9th St., Boise, Idaho 
PAYETTE DENNEY, Francis P. Central Marketing Co., Payette. Idaho 
HUSTON HOCKBERGER. William G., B.S.Ch.E. 1934 
R.R. No. 1, Huston, Idaho 

IDAHO FALLS BRADT, James M„ A3 . 1929 Post-Register, Idaho Falls. Idaho. 
NAMPA RUIZ, Frederick. J.D. 1928 High School, Nampa. Idaho 
POCATELLO HOOD. John L.. LL.B. 1914 307 Carlson Bldg., Focatello, Idaho 
SPENCER HAGENBARTH. Frank, os. 1886, el. 1925 Spencer, Idaho 
ILLINOIS 
ABINGDON NEYLON, George M., Boy Guid. 1928 Illinois Military Academy, Abingdon, 111. 
ALTON MCLAUGHLIN, John E., OS. 1910, el. 192G 1127 State St, Alton. III. 
ZniMEIUIAN, Jr.. Fred M.. B.S.Ch.E. 1930 414 Henry St. Alton. III. 
AMBOY ANTOINE. Earl J., B.C.S. 1926 Amboy, 111. 
SULLIVAN, John L., B.S. 1929 Amboy, III. 
ARCOLA CUNNINGHAM, Edwin Joseph, B.S.E.E. 1934 Areola, III. 
GOGGINS, Jr., Patrick J., B.S.KE. 1930 East Main St, Areola, 111. 
JIONAHAN, Thomas F„ Jr. Monahan Company. Areola. 111. 
ARGO LAMBERT. Richard P.. A.B. 1932 6225 75th Ave.. Argo, 111. 

ASHKUM HERLIHY. Jerome F.. C.E. 1925 Ashkum. 111. 
ASSUMPTION SIMONS. Joseph B.. Ph.B.Com. 1924 Route 3, Assumption. 111. 
AURORA BRAUN. Herbert J.. B.S.M.E. 1927 611 Fifth St, Aurora, III. 
CHAWGO. Louis E.. B.C.S. 1933 310 LaSalle St, Aurora, III. 
CHAWGO, William B., B.C.S. 1931 404 S. LaSalle St, Aurora, III. 
CYR. Walter J., Ph.B.Com. 1925 319 Sunset Ave., Aurora, III. 
FELDOTT, Joseph, LL.B. 1918 217-223 Mercantile Bl., Aurora, III. 
GABDEWINE, Joseph M., B.C.S. 1931 75 Grand Ave., Aurora, 111. 
GOSSELIN, Joseph William, A.B. 1933 Hotel Aurora, Aurora, III. 
JHLROY, Robert A., LL.B. 1912 Mercantile Block. Aurora, III. 
G'JIALLEY, Thomas P., B.C.S. 1932 327 S. Lake St, Aurora. 111. 
O'SIALLEY. Waller R., LL.B. 1930 251 S. Lake St , Aurora, HI. 
BUDDY, Clarence J.. LL.B. 1927 57 Fox St, Aurora. III. 
SCHICKLER, Jr.. Carl M., B.S.C.E.' 1927 841 Fifth St, Aurora, III. 
YOUNGEN, John P., B.C.S. 1934 706 Garfield Ave., Aurora. 111. 
BEECHER RASCHER, N. H., .\.B. 1934 Beecher, 111. 
BELLEVILLE COLLINS, Elmer J., Ch.B. 1923 9841 Baltimore Ave., Belleville. III. 
FELLNER. Alphonse B.. Ph.B.Com. 1925 305 N. Penn Ave., Belleville, 111. 
BELVIDERE O'SULLIVAN, Albert S., LL.B. 1918 101 Logan Ave., Belvidere, 111. 
BERIVYN VON DRASEK, Otto, Ph.G. 1921 6407 W. 34th St. Benvyn, III. 
BLOOUINGTON CONLEY. John J., B.SJLE. 1931 1109 N. Prairie, Bloomington, 111. 
DALTON, Ralph J., B.C.S. 1931 1503 E. Oakland Ave, Bloomington, HI. 
OBERKOETTER. Francis F., A.B. 1932 905 N. McLean St. Bloomington. III. 
WELLS. March F.. LL.B. 1915 319% E. Chestnut St. Bloomington. HI. 
BLUB ISLAND REARDON, Thomas A.. MJB. 1924 2723 Walnut St. Blue Island. HI. 
BOURBONNAIS DOOUNG. Henri C. B.E. 1924 Bouriwnnais. III.' 
•
 KENNEDY. Clarence J.. B.S.Biol. '05. M.S. '07 

P.
 O. Box 114. Bourbonnais. 111. 



BRIDGEPORT DIVER. James R.. Ph.B.Com. 1925 320 B. Chestnut St, Bridgeport, 111. 
FITZPAITJICK, James T.. Ph.B.Cora. 1934 610 N. Main St, Bridgeport, III. 
BROCTON SULLIVAN, Joseph P.. A.B. 1922 
R. S. 3, Brocton. III. 

CAIRO DARMODY, Philip A., B.S.RE. 1933 520 21st St, Cairo, III. 
LEAVITT, Leonard G., Ph.G. 1922 410 Cross St., Cairo, Bl. 
MAGNER, William A.. B.C.S. 1924 2609 Sycamore St , Cairo; HI. 
SCHAEFER. George J. B.SJ>har. 1933 223 12th St , Cairo, III. 
WALDER, Edward J.. B.C.S. 1933 2805 Park Place W., Cairo, 111. 

WALDER, James B., B.C.S. 1932 2805 Park Place W., Cairo, III. 
CALUMET CITY 

AHLERING. Edward L.. Ch.B. 1925 127 Elizabeth St . Calumet City. 111. 
SHANLEY. Wm. B.. B.S.Chem.E. '29, M.S. '30 912 Wentworth Ave., Calumet City, III. 
WALLACE, John J., A.B. 1927 704 Wentworth Ave.. Calumet City, 111. 
VITALE. Louis J., A.B. 1929 734 State Line St, Calumet City, HI. 
CAMPUS WALSH, Clyde A., LL.B. 1921 c-o State Bank, Campus, III. 
CANTON HECKARO. Martin R., B.C.S. 1932 336 W. Locust St, Canton, III. 
CARBONDALB VITT, F. A., B.C.S. 1934 412 W. Pecan St. Carbondale. 111. 
CARLINVILLE BESSO. Michael J.. B.S.C.E. 1933 
111. High\vay Dept. Carlinville. HI. 

CARMODY. Stephen R, LL.B. 1922 Carlinville. III. 
SEYFRIT, Michael F.. LL.B. 1923 407 Chestnut St . Carlinville. III. 
CARTECAGE CULKIN. Wilfred C. B.C.S. 1925 Carthage, III. 
CHAMPAIGN RUDDUCK. Herbert L. B.S. 1928, M.S. 1929 205 W. Park Ave., Champaign, HI. 
CHATSWORTH HERR. Stephan H.. C.E. 1910 Chatsworth. III. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
CHICAGO ABRAMS, Harrj- C. A.B. 1926 445 Lake Shore Drive. Chicago. HI. 
ADELSPERGER, E. R.. A.B. '90. B.S.Arch. 'OS 623 S. Sibley Ave.. ChicaRO. 111. 
ALLEN, ^Villiam S.. LL.B. 1921 6823 Greenview Ave.. ChicaBo, 111, 
ANGSTEN, Philip J.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 6722 Neweard Ave., Chicaco, 111, 
ANGSTEN', Kaymond J.. Ph.B.Com. 1929 6722 Newgard Ave., ChicaBO. 111. 
ARMSTRONG, Philip. Com. 1916 70 E. Cedar St.. Chicago, 111. 
ATTLEY, George E., C.E. 1910 5931 Midway Park, Chicago, III. 
AUSTIN. Lionel E., A.B. 192S 5407 Haddon Ave., Chicago, 111. 
BACHRACH, Benjamin C, A.B. 1S92 2600 S. California, Chicago, III. 
BAILEY, Joseph A.. LL.B. 1926 Smith, Rowe, Dunn & Howe. 4750 Sheridan Rd., Chicago, III. 
BALDWIN, William E., LL.B. 1901 Federal BIdg., Customs Dcpt. Chicago, 111. 
BAMBERG, Julius P., Ph.G. 1910 S51 E. S2nd St.. Chicago. 111. 
BARLOW, Austin J., LL.B. 1931 6419 Ingleside Ave., Chicago, 111. 
BARRETT, James J.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 4522 Dover St., Chicago. 111. 
BARRETT, J. Ra>-mond. M,A, 1932 4522 Dover St., Chicago, HI. 
BARRY. George F.. LL,B. 1924 2326 E. 70th Place. Chicago. HI. 
BARRY, Norman C. LL.B. 1921 134 N. LaSalle. Suite 1612, Chicago, HI. 
BARSALOUX, Paul K.. E,E. 1911 7638 Paxton Ave, Chicago. III. 
BASKERVILLE, Robert J.. B.S.E.E. 1931 Wedgewood Hotel, Woodlawn £ 64th St., Chicago, III. 
BEACOM, Jr., Thomas H,. Ph.B. 1920 Trust Dept., First National Bank. Chicago, 111. 
BEARDSLEE, Louis B.. os. 189S. el. 1925 100 N. LaSallc St., Chicago. HI. 
BECKLENBERG. Frederick P.. A.B. 1933 454 Barry Ave., Chicago, III. 
BEEHSTERBDEB, P. B., B.S. 192S 11439 Indiana Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
BEERY, Roland F., A.B. 1926 1034 Massasoit Ave.. Chicago, III. 
BENKENDORF, Richard C. B.S. 1931 5518 W. Adams St.. Chicago. III. 
BERGER, Leo J„ os. 1319. el. 1926 7932 Yale Ave., Auburn Park Station, Chicago, 111. 
BERGBIAN, Joseph B., Ph.B.C. 1924 2247 Cottage Grove Ave., Chicago, 111. 
BIEDKA, Harry M., A.B. 1927 4310 Milwaukee Ave., Chicago, 111. 
BLAHA. George C. B.S. 1934 6507 S. Artesian Ave., Chicago, III. 
BLOEMSMA. Eugene P.. B.CS, 1934 3759 Dickens Ave., Chicago, III. 
BLOMHAERT, Leonard J., B.S.Arch.E. 1932 11232 Parnell Ave., Chicago. 111. 
BOEHH. Alfred M„ M.E. 1924 Fallerton Plaza Hotel. 420 FuUcrton Pfcivj-., Chicago, 111. t 
BOHUNG, Jr., Nicholas J.. A.B. 1931 8420 OglcBby Ave., Chicago, HI. 
BRADY. Francis J., B.S.C.E. 1934 920 Buena Park Terrace, Chicago, 111. 
BRAUTIGAN, George A., A.B. 1929 7125 Union Ave.. Chicago. III. 
BBEEN, Richard J., A.B. 1931 4867 Eenmorc Ave.. Chicago, 111. 
BRENNAN. Eugene F.. B.CS. 1927 9417 S. Laflin St., Chicago. 111. 
BRINKSL^N, Adam J., B.S.C.E, 1927 823 E. 49th St., Chicago, HI. 
BRITZ. Edmund G., A.B. 1932 3245 Franklin Blvd.. Chicago. III. 
BROSNAN, Peter B.. os„ el. 1930 6028 S. Marshfield Ave, Chicago, III. 
BRUCE, Edward M.. S.E.E. 1912 200 E. Illinois, Chicago. 111. 
BRUCKER. Jr.. Matthew W.. B.S. 1933 Seneca Hotel, Chicago, 111. 
BUCKLEY, Edwin J.. I,L.B. 1934 5516 Kenmore Ave., Chicago, 111. 
BUCKLEY, John A.. B.CS. 1934 1029 N. Lorel St., Chicago, 111. 
BULFIN, John F., Ph.B.Com. 1929 5533 S. Union Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
BULGER. John C. LL.B. 1926 1430 E. Marnuette Bd., Chicago. III. 
BUNCH, Rollin F.. B,S. 1933 5555 Marjiand Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
BURKE, Emmett F.. Ph.B.Com. 1922 2151 E. 68th St.. Chicago. III. 
BURNS, Steven E.. E.E. 1915 556 ^V. Monroe St., Chicago, III. 
BURT, Herbert J.. A.B. 1926 5902 Elston Ave,, Chicago, HI. 
BYRNE, Paul. os. 1918. el. 1921 5502 S. Halsted St., Chicago. 111. 
CAHILL. Richard G.. B.CS. 1934 7448 N. Hoj-ne Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
CAHILL, Walter E.. B.CS. 1931 6723 Oglesby Ave., Chicago. 111. 
CAREY, Robert F., LL.B, 1926 7828 Oglesby Ave, Chicago, 111. 
CARMODY, James M.. A.B. 1932 7931 S. Emerald Ave, Chicago. 111. 
CARROLL, Charles H.. B.CS. 1934 
• 2900 Wilson Ave., Chicago. 111. 
CARROLL, William P.. A,B. 1933 7222 Luella Ave., Chicago, 111. 
CARY, John F.. B.S. 1933 c-o Y. M. C A,. 1804 W. Congress St.. Chicago. 111. 
CASEY, Daniel J.. B.S.CE. 1933 721 E. 88th St.. Chicago. HI. 
CASEY, Edward B., LL.B, 1924 6914 Sheridan Rd.. Chicago. HI. 
CASSIDY, John E.. LL.B. 1917 400 N. Michigan Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
CAVANAUGH, John W.. A.B. 1928 Apt. 6„ 3000 Sheridan Rd.. Chicago, III. 
CAVANAUGH, Vincent P.. A.B. 1932 1312 W. 64th St., Chicago. 111. 
CEFFALIO, Ross P.. A.B. 1929 3516 N. Clark. Chicago. HI. 
CHOUINARD, Laurence D.. A,B. 1933 802S Luella Ave., Chicago, HI. 
CLARK, Leo T.. A.B. 1932 115 N. Kildare Ave., Chicago. HI. 
CLARK, Lyman J., A.B. 1926 3740 Lake Shore Dr., Chicago, HI. 
CLEMENS, C L.. LL.B. 1911 8S13 Commerical Ave., Chicago, HI, 
CLIFFORD, Fred J., os. 1900. el. 1930 1920-50 Clyboume Ave., Chicago, 111. 
COAKLEY, John J., B.CS. 1932 6824 Merrill Ave, Chicago. III. 
CODY. Francis K, A.B.. 1926 2915 E. 78th St, Chicago. 111. 
COLUNS. John Jos.. A.B. 1933 4129 Washington Blvd.. Chicago, HI. 
COLUNS, James K., A.B. 1932 1235 Loyola Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
COLUNS. R, F., A.B. 1931 169 Laportc Ave, N., Chicago, III. 
CONAGHAN, Paul R.. Ph.B. 1920 Room 1768. 208 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, 111. 
CONUN, Andrew, Ph. B. For. Com. 1926 e-o. John P. Collins Fuel Co.. 3552 W. Division St.. Chicago. 111. 
CONUN, Edward J.. B.S. 1928 6930 Greenview Ave. Chicago. 111. 
CONTJELL, Daniel R., M.E. 1925 2555 Cullom Ave., Northccnter Sta.. Chicago. III. 
CON'NERS, James T.. LL.B. 1930 7423 Coles Ave. Chicago, 111. 
CONSIDINE. John P.. A.B. 1928 5710 Washington Blvd.. Chicago, III. 
COOKE. John J.. LL.B. 1894 653 Belmont Ave, Lakevicw Sta., Chicago. III. 
COOKE. Thomas E.. B.Arch. 1924 106 North Pine Ave. Chicago, III. 
COONEY. Maurice J., os. 1900 5324 Wayne Ave. Chicago, 111. 
COBBOY. Stephen C. LL.B. 1925 2101 Indiana Ave, Chicago, 111. 
CORCORAN, Dr. William J.. B.S.Biol. 1913. 6901 Oglesby, M.S. 1916 Chicago, 111. 
COSTELLO, George F.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 1434 E. 67th St., Chicago, 111. 
COSTELLO, John W.. LL.B. 1912 140 N. Dearborn St.. Uptown Station Chicago. HI. 
COSTELLO, Martin J.. A.B. 1897 Interlake Iron Corp., lOSth St. & Calumet River. Chicago. 111. 
COTTER. Sylvester J.. LL.B. 1931 2434 N. Nordica Ave. Chicago. HI. 
COURY, George, Th.B.Cum. 192S 105 W. Adams St.. c-o. Shields & Co. Chicago. 111. 
COYLE, Eugene C. B.CS. 1931 7439 Clyde Ave, Chicago, 111. 
CRILLY. Edgar. Oit 1896 el 1925. 35 S. Dearborn St.. Chicago. 111. 
CRILLY. George, os. 189G. el. 1925 35 S. Dearborn St.. Chicago. HI. 
CROOKS. John F.. A.B. 1930 7436 Barton Ave.. Chicago. III. 
CROWE. Francis J.. A.B. 1933 5946 Washington Blvd.. Chicago. 111. 
CROWLEY. Francis W.. LL.B. 1926 3636 S. Hamilton Ave,. Chieigo, 111. 
CROWLEY. Patrick F., A.B. 1933 742 Junior Terrace. Chicago. HI. 
CULHANE. J. Daniel. Ph.B.Com.. '23 M.A. '26 1300 Newberry Ave. Chicago, HI. 
CULLEN. Matthew J., LL.B.. 1929 2508 N. Spaulding Ave. Chicago, 111. 
CUNNEA. John M,. A,B, 1933 3708 W. 62nd Place. Chicago, 111. 
CUNNINGHAM Ja-s. V.. LL.B. 1907 8617 S. Paulina St., Chicago.'111. 
CURRAN Jr. Maurice J.. B.CS. 1934 6435 S. Park Ave, Chicago, 111. 
CURTIS, Harry A.. LL.B. 1908 6416 N, Irving Ave, Chicago, HI. 
GUSHING. John F. C.E. 1906 104 S, Michigan Ave. Chicago, III. 
CZAPALSKI, Stanley J., B.S.Phar. 1932 6939 Hayden St.. Chicago. III. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALTMNUS 
DACY, Maurice J., Ph.B.J. 1923 4522 N. Damen Ave.. Chicago. III. 
DAILY", 'William L.. LL.B. 1928 1316 North Shore Ave.. ChicaKO. 111. 
DALY", Hugh J., LL.B. 1912 346 R 26th St., ChicaRo, 111. 
DECLERQ. Edmund J.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1927 8118 Ellia Ave., ChicaRO, 111. 
DECLERQ. Jerome C. Ph.B.For.Com. 1928 327 S. LaSalle St. ChicaKO. III. 
DEE. S. Allerton. os. 1916. el. 1925 1233 Wabash Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
DELANA. Ednard K.. LittB. 1911 1243 W. Washington St.. Chicago. HI. 
DELANA. George W.. Ph.B. 1914 Box 804, Chicago, 111. 
BELLA MARIA, Joseph P.. B.S.C.E. 1927 5453 Hacc Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
DELPH. Dr. John F.. B.S. 1916 104 S..Michigan Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
DEREKGOSKI, Cornell L., B.S. 1934 2763 Archer Ave.. Chicago. III. 
DE ROULET, John N., A.B. 1929 7342 Constance Ave., Chicago, III. 
DESMET. Louis A.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1923 6417 Wayne Ave.. Chicago, III. 
DESMOND. Gerald J.. A.B. 19.11 8130 Essex Ave.. Chicago. III. 
DESMOND. Owen E.. Ph.B.Com. 1924 8130 E.<ise.x Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
DE^'EK. George A.. LL.B. 1923 160 N. LaSalle St.. Box 1. Chicago. 111. 
DE\-EREUX. John J.. LL.B. 1926 5050 Sheridan Boad. Chicago. III. 
DE\aXE. James T.. E.E. 1924 2759 N. Kostncr. Cragin Sla.. Chicago. 111. 
DE\1NE. Wlliam P.. os. 1890. cl. 1914 925 Edgccomh PI., Chicago. 111. 
DILLMAX. Francis A.. A.B. 1933 9405 S. Ada St.. Chicago. 111. 
DINNEN. -nniliam F.. LL.B. 1902 Ills New Post Oltice BIdg.. Chicago. 111. 
DITCHFIELD. Thomas J.. A.B. 1931 7514 Clyde Ave.. Chicago, HI. 
DIXON. Jerome F.. LL.B. 1922 231 S. LaSalle St.. Rm. 1210. Chicago. III. 
DOERR. Jr.. Charles J.. B.C.S. 1932 9706 S. ^Vinchester Ave., Chicago, III. 
DOLL. Howard F., B.S.E.E. 1929 Verona Apt. Hotel. 5860 Kenmore Ave.. Chicago. III. 
DONOVAN. Thomas C. LL.B. 1924 125 W. M-dison St.. 24th Fl.. Chicago. 111. 
DORGAN. William L.. B.C.S. 1926 921 Edgecomb. Chicago. 111. 
DOWNEY. Martin W.. A.B. 1931 7S43 Carpenter St. Chicago. 111. 
DOY"LE. James T.. B.C.S. 1931 3439 Jackson Blvd.. Chicago. III. 
DOY'LE, Dr. Nicholas M.. os. 1906. el. 1930 2314 N. Clark St. Chicago. 111. 
DRAPER. Donald F.. A.B. 1933 7816 S. Shore Drive. Chicago. 111. 
DRAPER. William A., os. 1907. cl. 1910 Rm. 1S17 Palmolive BIdg.. 919 N. Michigan Ave.. Chicago. III. 
DREUX. William B.. A.B. 1933 428 S t James PI., Chicago, HI. 
DREW. Harlin W., os. 1919 el. 1926 c-o Parker Pen Co.. 202 S. Stale St., Chicago, 111. 
DRY»ULSKI, Alvin V.. Ph.B.Com. 1933 3G50 N. Harding Ave., Chicago, 111. 
DRYSIALSKI. Raymond P.. A.B. 1929 3650 N. Harding Ave., Chicago, 111. 
DUCEY'. Vincent P., A.B. 1928 1125 Loyola Ave.. Chicago, 111. 
DUFFY. John E.. os. 1918 8215 Vernon Ave.. Chicago, 111. 
DUFFY". Thomas E.. A.B. 1932 6901 Oglesby Ave.. Chicago. III. 
DUGAN, Thomas R.. A.B. 1934 1751 Arthur Ave.. Chicago. III. 
DUGGAN. James B.. os. 1901. el. 1930 7111 Luella Ave.. Chicago. III. 
DUNCAN. Mirk L.. Ph.B. 1915 105 E. Delaware PI.. Chicago. HI. 
DURLACHER. Leo M.. B.C.S. 1930 1849 Lunt Ave.. Chicago. III. 
DWVER. Wlliam K.. Ph.D.Com. 1928 Montgomery Ward & Co.. Chicago. HI. 
DYNIEWICZ. Casimir W.. A.B. 1932 473S Milwaukee Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
EGAN. P.-iniel J.. B.S.E.E. 1931 3859 Washington Blvd.. Chicago. III. 
EGAN. Francis X.. E.E. 1924 7743 S. Maj- St.. Chicago. HI. 
EGAN. James V.. Ph.B.F.C. 1924 Calumet P-^rk. 9Sth & Lake Michigan Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
EGGERT. Herbert A.. B.S.M.E. 1926 1845 Continental HI.. Merchants Bk. BIdg.. Chicago. 111. 
EIGELSBACH. C^-rl P.. S. Com. 1918 1220 E. 70th St. Grand Crossing Sta.. Chicago. 111. 
ELDER. John J.. A.B. 1930 Seneca Hotel. Chicago. 111. 
ENRIGHT, Laurence F.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 1260 N. Dearborn St.. Chicago. III. 
EPSTEIN. Bernard L.. B.C.S. 1927 3527 W. Franklin Blvd.. Chicago. HI. 
ERNST. Francis R., B.C.S. 1932 7919 Chappel Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
ESSROGER. Victor C. Ph.B.Com. 1929 5329 Hyde Park Blvd.. Chicago, 111. 
FAGAN. Virgil P.. Ph.B.C. 1925 5123 Washington. Chicago. HI. 
FAILLE. Clinton H.. A.B. 1929 5087 Jackson. Chicago. HI. 
FEEHERY', Edward J.. B.C.S. 1930 7321 South Shore Drive. Chicago. III. 
FETHERSON. Louis M.. Ph.B. 1904 4944 N. Christiana, Chicago. III. 
FIGEL. Edward L.. LL.B. 1911 7719 Clyde Ave., Chicago, 111. 
FINNIGAN. Bernard M.. LL.B. 1925 9239 Merrill Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
FINUCANE. William S.. LL. 1927 4200 S. Francisco Ave.. Chicago. III. 
FISCHER. George H., E.B. 1925 Green Gables Hotel & Annex. 3920 Lake Park Ave., at Oakwood Blvd.. Chicago, HI. 
FISCHER. Robert J., os. 1913. cl. 1926 135 S. LaSalle St. Rm. 1140. Chicago. 111. 
FISHER. Clifford L.. B.S.C.E. 1931 112 S. Menard Ave.. Chicago. III. 
FISHER. Harold P.. C.E. 1906 9612 S. Leavitt St. Chicago. 111. 
FITZGERALD, John D.. E.B. 1922 8119 S. Elizabeth St . Chicago, Hi. 
FITSIMMONS. Frank T.. os. 1920. el. 1927 111 W. Monroe St. Chicago. 111. 
FLANICAN. James J.. LL.B. 1932 2326 K 70th PI., Chicago, HI. 
FLYNN. Albert J., os., el. 1928 1948 W. North Ave.. Chicago. III. 
FLYNN, Joseph P.. LL.B. 1917 8211 Kimbark Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
FLYNN, William T.. os. 1895. el. 1931 1948-58 W. North Ave., Chicago, 111. 
FOGARTY, J. Paul. Ph.BJ. 1917 5347 Kenmore Ave., Chicago. 111. 
FOLEY, Edmond I.. OS. 1915. el. 1925 
75.33 Phillips Ave., Chicago. IlL 

FOLEY, James T.. os. 1910. el. 1913 7333 Prairie Ave., Chicago, HI. 
FOLEY, James W.. Ph.B. 1916 6431 N. Leavitt St. Chicago. III. 
FOLEY. William E.. Ph.B.C. 1921 333 N. Michigan. Chicago. 111. 
FOOTE, Mark A.. C.E. 1922 6528 Harvard Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
FRANKE. Louis G.. Ph.B.Com. 1926 1917 Berwyn Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
FREELY', Francis L.. A.B. 1934 7812 South Shore Drive. Chicago. 111. 
FREUND, Albert J..'SJ:.B. 1916 310 S. Michigan Ave.. Rm. 1739. Chicago. 111. 
FRITCH, Emil J., os. 1914. cl. 1931 59 B. Van Burcn St., Chicago. HI. 
GALLA, John J.. A.B. 1933 6318 Kenwood Ave., Chicago. III. 
GALLAGHER, Harold J.. LL.B. 1926 7713 S. Racine. Chicago. 111. 
GALLAGHER, Raymond M.. Litt B. 1923 4515 Washington Blvd.. Chicago, 111. 
GAILIGAN. James C. B.C.S. 1933 5540 Cornell Ave.. Chicago. III. 
GANDOLFI, Anthony J.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 4118 Grcenview Ave., Chicago. 111. 
GARR1TY-, Donald E., B.SJVrch.E, 1933 8134 Langley Ave., Chicago. III. 
GARRITY, Edmund C. A.B. 1929 8134 Langley Ave., Chicago, 111. 
GAUSSEUN, Edwin A.. B.C.S. 1933 1847 W. Garfield Blvd.. Chicago. 111. 
CAYNOR. Gerald J., A.B. 1928 7139 Ridgcland Ave.. Wmdsor Park Sta., Chicago, 111. 
GAYNOR, W. C. OS. 1924 4246 Sheridan Rd. Chicago. 111. 
GEARY', John D., Ph.B. Com. 1927 8013 Drexel Ave., Chicago, 111. 
GEDDES, John J., A.B. 1932 7112 Luella Ave., Chicago, III. 
GETCHELL, Francis H., os. '92 el. "26 53 W. Jackson Blvd.. Chicago, III. 
GIBBONS, Wm. J., B.C.S. 1931 7418 Stony Island Ave., Chicago, 111. 
GILTINON, John M.. A.B. 1929 5602 S. Union Ave., Chicago, 111. 
GIRSCH, Charles N.. os. '98 el. '20 7742 Bidgeland Ave., Chicago, HI. 
GIRTEN, Michael F., el. 1914 30 N. Michigan Ave., 822. Chicago, 111. 
GLAHE. Frederick W., Ch. E. 1922 8236 S. Peoria St, Chicago, III. 
GLASHEEN. William P , LL.B.1901 343 Belmont Ave., Chicago, lit 
GLEESON. Edward M., B.C.S. 1933 5418 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago. lU. 
GOLDEN, John D., Ph. B. Com. 1931 6432 Minerva Ave., Chicago, 111. 
GONCIARZ. Joseph P., B.S. Phar, 1932 2458 N. Lotus St. Chicago, III. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS 
GOODMAN, Morton R. LL.B. 1930 720 Parkway Hotel. 2100 Lincoln Pk. W.. CfaicaEO, m. 
GORDON, Thos. E.. Ph.B.P.C. 1924 c-o. Standard Oil Co.. Chicago, HI. 
GORMAN. A. P.. A.B. 1932 1110 W. Garfield Blvd., Chicago. HI. 
GORMAN. Joseph K. B.C.S. 1932 9358 Throop St, Chicago. HI. 
GOnU), Edward W., LL.B. 1923 1313 W. Randolph St. Chicago, m. 
GRAHAM Francis X., B.C.S. 1932 913 N. Laramie Ave., Chicago, III. 
GREEN. Stephen J„ A.B. 19S0 656 R 89th PI.. Chicago. 111. 
GRIFFIN. J. J.. B.S. Phys. Ed. 1931 4905 Glenwood Ave.. Chicago, 111. 
GRIFFIN, John T., A.B. '26 LL.B. '30 6457 Kenwood Ave., Chicago. III. 
GRIFFIN, Richard A.. LL.B. 1924 163 E. Erie St, Chicago, HI. 
GROVES. John G., B.C.S. 1932 6456 Magnolia Ave.. Chicago, 111. 
GUINON, Charles H.. LL.B. 1926 Hotel Alcazar, 3000 Washington Blvd., Chicago, ni. 

HACKER. Raymond W., B.C.S. 1929 2214 Highland Ave.. Chicago, 111. 
HAGERTY, Dr. Cornelius S.. B.S, 1925 8005 S. Ada St, Chicago, HL 
HAGGERTV, Richard, os. 1913 9900 S. Winchester Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
HALUSET, Vfrn. S, A.B. 1930 6332 N. Francisco, Chicago. HI. 
HALPIN, John J., Ph.B. Com. 1927 1239 Foster St , Chicago, IlL 
N 

HALPIN, Richard L., A.B. 1927 1239 Foster St , Chicago, 111. 
HAMILTON, George H., os. 1921 4556 Beacon St , Chicago. HI. 
HANLEY, Robert J.. A.B. 1934 1242 Pratt Blvd.. Chicago, 111. 
BARNEY. Jos. W.. B.S. 1931 8149 Dorchester Ave., Chicago, III. 
HARRIS, Daniel P., LL.B. 1925 7001 Euclid Ave.. Windsor Park Station, Chicago, 111. 
HART. Walter V., A.B. 1929 8837 Wilcox St, Chicago, HI. 
HARTNETT. Geo. F.. Ph.B. Com. 192G 2037 Jarvis Ave., Chicago, IlL 
HABVEY, Daniel J.. LL.B. 1927 2813 Calnmet Ave., Chicago. HI. 
HABVEY. Jos. P., LL.B. 1926 915 N. Laramie Ave.. Chicago, 111. 
HASSENAUEB, Leo J., LL.B. 1920 
V. S. Attorney's Omco. tj S. Courthouse. Cliicago, 111. 

HAW, Jr., iVed J.. Ph.B.Com. 1929 1460 Garfield Blvd.. Chicago. HI. 
HAWXaCRST, Erie, os. 1917 el. 1927 1 N. La Salle St, Chicago. 111. 
HATES, Trank D.. os. 1905 el. 1931 1843 Morse Ave.. Chicago, HI. 
HAYES, Francis H., LL.B. 1914 1262 Newport Ave., Chicago, 111. 
HAYES, Harold, B.S. 1874 MJ^ 1S95 4968 Medill Ave.. Chicago, HI. 
HEALY, John F., A.B. 1930 4108 Kenmore Ave., Chicago, HI. 
HEGELE, Lester C. LL.B. 1928 108 Broadway. Melrose Park, Chicago, 111. 
HEIDKAMF. Paul J.. B.C.S. 1930 2125 Wilson Ave., Chicago, III. 
HELLWIG Clarence T., B.C.S. 1934 1453 Addison St, Chicago. HI. 
HENEGHAN. Frederick J.. A.B. 1932 2109 N. Mozart St, Chicago. HI. 
HENNEBERRY, J. P.. os. 1923 7041 Bennett St. Chicago, HI. 
HENNES. Bernard R.. LL.B. 1924 6013 Kenmore Ave., Chicago^ HI. 

HENRY, William C, LittB. 1916 9113 Commercial, South Chicago Sta. Chicago, HI. 
HERSH, Benz. T., B.C.S. 1927 4725 Maiden Ave., Chicago, HI. 
HIGGINS. George A.. A.B. 1932 2313 S. Oakley St, Chicago. III. 
HIGGINS. John G., Ph.B. Com. 1932 3000 W. Polk St, Chicago, HI. 
HIGGINS. Royal J , B.C.S. 1930 6729 Oglesby Ave., Chicago. HI. 
HIGGINS. Thos. I,., LL.B. 1925 214 S. Winchester Ave.. Chicago, HI. 
HILGARTNER. Jr.. Daniel E., Ph.B I9I7 Chicago Tribune. Chicago, HI. 
HILLIARD, Ray M.. os. 1928 7209 Bcnnet. Chicago. 111. 
HINES. Eugene M.. LL.B. 1923 135 S. LaSalle, Rm. 1960. Chicago. HI. 
HOAR. Gerald J. B.S. 1921 1453 E. 8Gth St. Chicago, HI, 
HOGAN, John L.. A.B. 1932 6921 Oglesby Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
HOGAN. Richard J.. B.S. 1934 S t Anne's Hospital. Chicago, HI. 
HOLLAND, Emraett J.. A.B. 1934 1122 No. Shore Ave,, Chicago. HI. 
HOLLAND, Eugene J.. B.C.S. 1934 1122 No. Shore Ave., Chicago. HI. 
HOLLAND, F. J.. B.C.S. 1931 1122 No. Efhore Ave.. Chicago, HI. 
HOLLAND, Jerome P.. B. Arch. 1930 1122 North Shore Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
HOLLOWAY, Charles C. Ph.B. Com. 1926 C.-0. Marshall Field & Co.. Furniture Dept State S t Store. Chicago, 111. 
HOUtlBERG, Bruce J., os. 1923 el. 1926 8415 Wabash Ave., Chicago, 111. 
HORNYAK, Stephen L., B.S. 1933 9300 Evans St. Chicago, 111. 
HOST, Paul A.. A.B. 1533 
C.O. C.Y.O. 30 N. LaSalle St. Chicago, 111. 

HOSTENY, Richard N.. A.B. 1933 7639 Lowe Ave., Chicago, HI. 
HOULIHAN. John T.. A.B. 1930 4720 S. Union. Chicago. 111. 
HUBEB, Robert E.. B.E. 1919 Rm. 635. Edison Bldg., Chicago, HI. 
HUGHES, Arthur J.. Ph.B. '11 LL.B. '17 Bankers Bldg., 30th Fl. 105 W. Adams S t Chicago, 111. 
HUGHES. Cyril A.. B.S.E.E. 1930 7248 Crandon Ave., Chicago. HI. 
HUGHES, Frank M.. LL.B. 1922 7010 No. Paulina St, Chicago. III. 
HUMMER. John S.. LL.B. '90 LittB. '91 
710. 69 W. Washington St. Chicago, 111. 

HURLEY, Earl C, LL.B. 1924 Criminal Court Bldg., 26th & California Chicago, III. 
HURLEY, Francis J.. LL.B. 1918 951 Foster Ave., Chicago, 111. 
HURLEY, Ira W.. LL.B. 1914 33 N. LaSalle St, Chicago, HI. 
ISVOLT, Paul J., B.C.SI 1929 839 Wellington Ave., Chicago, 111. 
JACOB, Wm. S., Ph. B. Com. 1923 Concannon & Dillon, "ntle & Trust Bldg. Chicago. 111. 
JAEGER. John G.. A.B. 1933 22 N. Loral Ave.. Chicago, 111. 
JAMIESON. Wm. D., LittB. 1903 506 S. Wabash St., Bx. 5. Chicago. HI. 
JANC. Emil J.. B.S. Phar. 1932 11432 Eggleston Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
JANC. Wm. F., B.S. 1930 11432 Eggleston Ave., Chicago, HI. 
JANS. Clarence T.. Ph. B. Com. 1929 1119 Lnnt Ave., Chicago. HI. 
JONES. Jas. A.. A.B. 1927 1S14?6 North Shore Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
JOSLYN, Marcellus L.. B.S. 1893 20 N. Wackcr Drive, Chicago, III. 
JOYCE, .Tohn R.. Ph. B. Com. 1933 7914 Eberhardt Ave.. Chicago, III. 
KANALEY. Bvron V.. A.B. 1904 120 S. LaSalle St. Chicago. HI. 
KANALEY. John B.. A.B. 1909 120 S. LaSalle St. Chicago. 111. 
KAISER, aarence J.. Ch.E. 1925 821 E. 81st St, Chicago. HI. 
KEARNEY, James J.. A.B. 1931 6G4B Glenwood Ave., Chicago, HI. 
KEARNEY. Peter E., LL.B. 1S9S 111 W. Wash. St. Chicago. HI. 
KEARNEY, Wm. P.. A.B. 1928 6648 Glenwood Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
KEARNS. James S.. A.B. 1934 Chicago Daily News, Sport's Dept. Chicago. III. 
KEEFE, Francis J.. A.B. 1927 Cornell Arms Hotel. 5235 Cornell Ave. 
Chicago, HI. 

KEELIN. John W.. os. 1923. el. 1931 180 E. Delaware. Chicago. HI. 
KEENAN. Ed. OS. 1928 el. 1931 6237 Congress St . Chicago, HI. 
KEESLAR, L. D.. Ch.E. 1915 8133 Bennett Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
KEGOWICZ, Anthony W.. LL.B. 1932 8626 Exchange Ave.. Chicago, III. 
KELLEGHAN, James H.. Ph.B.C. 1926 5343 Wayne Ave., Chicago, HI. 
KELLY. Albert M.. LL.B. 1911 7653 Bosworth Ave., Rogers Park Sta.. Chicago. III. 
KENNEDY. Thomas J.. B.C.S.. 1933 4151 W. Adams St. Chicago, 111. 
KENNEDY. William E.. Ph.B.Journ. 1917 2318 Cullom Ave., Chicago, III. 
KERRIGAN. Thomas J.. A.B. 1930 8242 S. Justine, Chicago, III. 
KERWIN, Richard M., os. 1889. el. 1932 552 Insurance Exchange. Chicago. III. 
KEVILL, John D.. LL.B. 1924 6134 N. Claremont Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
KIELY, John W.. A.B. 1934 1102 Columbia St. Chicago. HI. 
HEP . Erwin J.. B.C.S. 1934 834 Waveland Ave.. Chicago, III. 
KILEY, Roger J., LL.B. 1923 111 W. Madison. Chicago, HI. 
KIOLBASA, Walter A., A.B. 1932 3800 W. George St, Chicago, 111. 
KtPLE, John E., A.B. 1934 1226 North Shore Ave.. Chicago. III. 
KIRALY. Julius J.. B.C.S. 1934 701 E. 88th St, Chicago, HI. 
KISBY. J. B. B.C.S.Com. 1931 6716 Cornell Ave., Chicago, 111. 
KLAAS, Frank B.G.S. 1927 Bankers Bldg., 30tfa. Chicago, III. 
KOCH. Gerard A., A.B. 1931 1640 Bascher Ave., Chicago, HI. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
KOEHLER, Alvin I.. B.C.S. 1924 2054 Bradley Place, Chicaso, 111. 
KOLSKI, A. G., LL.B. 1931 2118 Pierce Ave., Chicago, III. 
KOLSKI. Edwin T., A.B. 1932 211S Pierce Ave., Chicago, III. 
KONKOWSKI. Richard N., LL.B. 1931 1030 W. Chicago Ave., Chicago, 111. 
KOPECKY, Anthony J.. Ph.B.Com. 1929 1856 S. Troy St , Chicago, III. 
KRAUSE, Edu-anl W.. A.B. 1934 4614 S. Paulina St, Chicago, 111. 
KRiisIEC. Edward F., A.B. 1934 4828 S. Winchester. Ave., Chicago, III. 
LaBORNE. Frank J., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1934 S t Philip's High School, Chicago, HI. 
LANDRY. Ernest L., B.C.S. 1926 4558 Fullerton Ave., Cragin Sta., Chicago, HI. 
LANGENDORF, Samncl. os. 1904. el. 1928 1725 W. North Ave., Chicago, HI. 
LABNEY. Edwin J., LL.B. 1914 
5761 N. Richmond, Chicago, III. 
LACGHLIN, George C. M.E. 1925 8506 Bennett Ave., Chicago. 111. 
LAVERY. Hugh T.. LLB. 1919 2959 N. Damen Ave., Chicago, 111. 
LAWLER, Raymond, B.C.S. 1928 919 W. 54th Place. Chicago. 111. 
LEAHY. Bernard P.. A.B. 1932 140 N. Mason St, Chicago, 111. 
LEABY, Edward J., B.C.S. 1929 1248 N. Mansfield Ave., Chicago. 111. 
LEAHY, Dr, Thomas E.. B.S. 1926 5057 Drexel Blvd., Chicago, III. 
LEAHY, William R., A.B. 1931 5057 Drcxel Blvd., Chicago, 111. 
LEE, Manrice William. A.B. 1933 8313 Merrill Ave.; Chicago, III. 
LEE, Rohert E., A.B. 1932 8313 Merrill Ave., Chicago, Hi. 
LEVSTIK, John A., B.S.E.B. 1933 654 W. 116th St. Chicago. 111. 
LEWIS, James J., A.B. 1932 4929 Woodlawn Ave., Chicago, HI. 
LEWIS, William F., B.S.Ch.B. 1934 5448 Washington Blvd., Chicago, 111. 
LIGHTFOOT, Francis. IX.B. 1925 11 S. LaSalle St. Rm. 1232. Chicago. III. 
LINSKEY. Martin H.. A.B. 1933 5546 W. Monroe St, Chicago, 111. 
LINTON. Francis L., A.B. 1934 349 Castlewood Terrace, Chicago, 111. 
LIZZADRO, Dominic D., B.C.S. 1933 2130 Polk St, Chicago, HI. 
LOPKER, Edwin 6., B.S.Ch.E. 1933 9120 Excilangc Ave.. Chicago, III. 
LUCAS, Dr. G. M., B.S. 1914 6760 Stony Island Ave., Chicago, HI. 
LDEKEN, Paul S., Ph.B.Com. 1928 6537 S. Sangamon St, Englewood Sta., Cliicago, HI. 
LUSSON. Ray J.. B.C.S. 1928 1337 E. 72nd Place, Chicago, III. 
LYNCH, John P., B.C.S. 1933 1318 Norwood St , Chicago, HI. 
LYNN, Leo J., B.C.S. 1929 5902 Elston Ave., Chicago, III. 
LYONS, John J.. LL.B. 1929 4020 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, III. 
HAAG, Joseph M., M.E. 1921 2019 Estes Ave., Chicago, III. 

HADDEN, Daniel L., LL.B. 1906 1634 Morse Ave., Chicago, 111. 
SIAHER. William R., LL.B. 1924 1535 Schrieber Ave., Rogers Park Sta., Chicago, HI. 
MAHONEY, John M., LL.B. 1931 1349 N. Massasoit Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
ALVKARSKI. Carl D.. B.S. 1934 1123 Noble St . CMcago. HI. 
MALLOY. Donald C, A.B. 1930 6719 Merrill Ave.. Chicago. III. 
JIALONEY, W. Joseph, os. 1919 9924 S. Hamilton Ave., Chicago. 111. 
MANGAN. George B., B.C.S. 1931 2312 Wilson Ave., Chicago, III. 
SIARTIN, James E., B.C.S. 1923 5086 Monroe St, Chicago, III. 
51ARTZEL, Victor J., A.B. 1930 6410 Dante Ave., Chicago, III. 
MASON, Aaron W., B.S. E.R 1929 6731 Jeffrey Ave., Chicago, III. 
SIAYPOLE, George, os. 1902, el, 1925 3262 Washington Blvd., Chicago, HI. 
McADAMS, Jr., Frank J., A.B. 1931 2860 E. 76th St, Chicago. III. 
McCABE. Harold T.. LL.B. 1927 2616 Hampden Court. Chicago, HI. 
McCABE, James R., B.S.Agri. 1922 6940 Clyde St , Chicago, HI. 
McCABE, Thomas S., LL.B. 1922 1448 Rascher Ave., Chicago, III. 
MCCARTHY, Florence J., B.C.S. 1932 5555 Sheridan Road, Chicago, 111. 
MCCARTHY, Dr. FrankUn B., B.S.Biol. 1907 55 E. Washington Blvd., Chicago, III. 
MCCARTHY, Joseph P., A.B. 1933 5565 Sheridan Road, Chicago. HI. 
alcCAETHY, Wlliam Ambrose. A.B. 1934 6154 Evans Ave.. Chicago. III. 
MCCARTHY, wiuam D.. A.B. 19SO 
7945 S. Peoria. Chicago, III. 
MCCARTHY, William J., B.C.S. 1930 7231 Coles Ave., Chicago, HI. 
McCLORY, Raymond L., LL.B. 1927 1 N. LaSalle St, Chicago, Hi. 
McCOIUtACK, Edward J., A.B. 1028 8229 Ingleside Ave., Chicago, HI. 
McCORJUCK, Richard H., M.E. 1921 3826 Wilcox St , Chicago, HI. 
McCURRIE, Francis T., LL.B. 1927 8116 S. Green St. Chicago. III. 
McDERJIOTT, Gerald V.. A.B. 1926 1425 Farwell Ave., Chicago, 111. 
McDONAGH, Harry F., LL.B. 1910 6918 Euclid Ave., Windsor Park Sta., Chicago, III. 
McEACHERN, Allan P., B.C.S. 1932 928 S. Mason Ave., Chicago, HI. 
McELLEN, William A., os. 1929 5700 Washington Blvd., Austin Sta., Chicago, 111. 

MCFADDEN. Francis P., os. 1925, el. 1931 GS38 Ridgeland Ave., Chicago, HI. 
McGEE, Francis N., A.B. 1932 7837 Colfax Ave, Chicago, HI. 
McGEE, Thomas F., A.B. 1927 6449 Lakcwood, Chicago, 111. 
McGINNIS, Ambrose, LL.B. 1924 1546 Jonquil, Chicago, HI. 
McGINNIS. Joseph C. LL.B. 1919 1546 Jonquil. Chicago. III. 
McGLONE, Gerald J.. BC.S.' 1934 7211 Yale Ave., Chicago. HI. 
McGONlGLE, Stephen F.. LL.B. 1917 4943 Weshend, Chicago, III. 
McGOORTY. Jr.. John P.. Ph.B. 1924 10 S. LaSalle St. Rm. 700, Chicago, HI. 
McGREAL. Fnmds J.. A.B. 1931 7617 Essex Ave., Chicago, III. 
HcGDIRE, Edward P . LL.B. 1928 1 N. LaSalle St, Chicago^ HI. 
McGUIRE. James R , UJL 1919 1030 Milton Ave., Chicago, HI. 
HcGUIRE, R. G.. OS. 1919 3323 Washington Blvd., Chicago, HI. 
McKEE. Harold R, Ph3J. 1922 5722 Washington Blvd., Chicago, HI. 
McKEEVER. P. H., LittB. 1903, LL.B. 1904 10 S. LaSalle St. Rm. 310. Chicago. lU. 
McKEOWN, Edward P.. A.B. 1928 7306 Lowe Avenue, Chicago. III. 
McKEOWN, Harry P., A.B. 1930 7315 Emerald Ave., Chicago, III. 
MCLAUGHLIN. Edward j.. LL.B. 1927 7726 Jeffery, Chicago, 111. 
McMANUS, Thomas J., LL.B. 1917 223 W. 72nd St. Chicago, HI. 
McMULLAN. John M., A.B. 1926 133 S. Austin Blvd., Chicago. HI. 
McMURRAY. John J.. LL.B. 1931 7 W. 23rd St. Chicago. III. 
McNELLIS. John F., Ii.B . 1927 10509 Hoxie Ave., Chicago, HI. 
McNICHOLAS. James P.. LL.B. 1925 7608 Phillips Ave.. Windsor Park Sta.. Chicago, lU. 
McNICHOLS, Austin A., el. 1923 2041 Insurance Exchange, Chicago, HI. 
McSHANE, Benedict L.. LL.B. 1931 7253 Merrill St , Chicago, HI. 

McSHANE John A., A.B. 1934 7253 Merrill Ave., Chicago, lU. 
SIEAGHER. Edmund J., LL.B. 1921 1734 E. 72nd St, Chicago, III. 
MEDLAND, Thomas G., B.Arch. 1930 2222 E. 70th St, Chicago, HI. 
MEISTERHEm, Philip F., B.C.S. 1933 1640 B. 50th St, Chicago, HI. 
SIELCHIONE. Edgar J.. A.B. 1932 5510 Sheridan Road, Chicago, HI. 
MESERVEY, Jerome L.. Ph.B.C6m. 1933 714 Waveland Ave., Chicago, HI. 
METCALF^ Albert L., M.K 1911 1405 Rosemont Ave., Chicago. HI. 
METZGER. Bertram L.. A.B. 1931 7643 Yates Ave., Chicago. HI. 
METZGER. Walter J.. P.B.C.. 1925 4319 N. Ashland Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
MICHUDA, Leo L.. A.B. 1929 11127 Lowe Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
SUKES, Benjamin J., B.C.S. 1932 2816 Logan Square Blvd., Chicago, lU. 
ItHLROY. William J., LL.B. 1913 1454 E. Marquette Road, Chicago. HI. 
KUTCHELL. Clement C. LL.B. 1902 110 S. Dearborn St, Box 3, Chicago, HI. 
SHTCHELL. John J., os. 1915 2216 Irving Park Blvd., Chicago, HI. 
MIZERSKI, Norbert T., B.S.E.E. 1934 225T LaVergne Ave., Chicago, HI. 
MOHARDT. Dr. John H., B.S. 1922 30 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, HI. 
MONROE, Richard J., os. 1912. el. 1930 4884 N. Hermitage Ave., Chicago, III. 
MONTAGUE. John M.. Ph.B.Com. 1923 6638 Glenwood Ave., Chicago. HL 
HOORE. AUan J.. Ph3.Com. 1929 7909 Lansley Ave., Grand Crossing Sta., Chicago, 111. 
HOORE. Loois F.. Ph.B.Com. 1923 1738 W. 105th St. Chicago. III. 
MORAN. Edward H.. aCS . 1934 2141 N. Laporte Ave., Chicago. HI. 
SUPPLEMENl- TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
BIORAWSKI. Thaddeus J.. 1,L.B. 1933 12043 Michigan Ave., Chicago. 111. 
MORGAN. Lawrence B.. LI,.B. 1921 6927 Bennett Ave., Windsor Park Sta., Chicago, m. 
MORRISSEr. Edmund L.. B.S.C.E. 1930 157 Leamington, Chicago, 111. 
MOSCOW. James V., Ph.B.Com. 1934 2320 N. Lawndale Ave., Chicago, III. 
MOXLEV, George T.. os. 1901 14 W. Elm St.. Chicago, III. 
MULDOOK, Jr., John A., os. 191S 1201 W. Lake St., Chicago, 111. 
ItlULHERK. John H., B.C.S. 1932 10345 S. Seely Ave., Chicago, III. 
MULHOLLAND. Clement B.. LL.B. 1920 1 K. LaSalle St., Km. 1148, Chicago, 111. 
MULLEN". Dr, George C, os. 1924, el. 1930 1G07 Howard St., Chicago, III. 
MULLIGAN. Raymond H., A.B. 1928 40 N. Mayfield Ave.. Chicago, 111. 
MUNIZZO, Joseph K., LL.B. 1932 305 W. 3Ist St, Chicago. III. 
MURPHV. John R., A.B. 1928 ISll Prairie Ave., Chicago, IIJ. 
MURPHY. •William H.. Ph.B.Com. 192S 10515 S. Hamilton Ave.. Chicago, III. 
MURPHY, •miliam J.. A.B. 1927 1220 Albion Ave., Chicago, HI. 
NASH. Charles B.. B.S. 1932 5051 Ellis Ave., Chicago, III. 
NASH. John R., B.S.C.E. 1929 3234 Washington Blvd.. Chicago. 111. 
NASH. Joseph H.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 5051 Ellis Ave.. Chicago, III. 
NASH, Richard J.. Ph.B.Com. 1923 6119 N. Hoyne Ave., Chicago, 111. 
NASH, Thomas E., A.B. 1927 3234 Washington Blvd., Chicago, III. 
NEVILS, Mark E., A.B. 1927 2733 Hampden Ave., Chicago, III. 
NEWTON, Robert C, B.S. 1899 64 Cedar St., Chicago, III. 
NOONAN, Thomas C, B.Arch. 1924 1223 Columbia Ave., Chicago, 111. 
NORTMAN, Harry B., B.Arch. 1934 6238 Champlain Ave., Chicago, 111. 
NORTON. John C, Ph.B.Com. 1923 1522 Thomdale Ave., Chicago, III. 
NOVAK, Joseph P.. B.S.Phy.Bd. 1934 5164 Damen Ave.. Chicago, III. 
NOWOTABSKI. S. T., LL.B. 1931 6212 Grand Ave., Chicago, III. 
CAKES. Thomas E., Ph.B.Com. 1931 7724 S. Marahfield St., Chicago, III. 
OBELENUS. Stanley C, BJlrch. 1932 701 W. 31st St, Chicago, III. 
O'BRIEN. Francis B.. Ph.B. 1902 2140 Clyboum Ave., Chicago, III. 
O'BRIEN. Harold R., Ph.B.Com. 1924 7121 N. Paulina St., Chicago, III. 
O'BRIEN. Joseph E., LL.B. 1923 5524 S. Union St., Chicago, 111. 
O'BRIEN. James J., B.S.E.E. 1931 7931 S. Dre.Nel Ave.. Chicago, III, 
O'BRIEN, William W.. LL.B. 1900 1105-7 Chicago Temple Bldg., Chicago. III. 
O'CONNELL, Hon. John P., LL.B. 1913 647 County Bldg., Chicago, III. 
O'CONNOR, Daniel J., Ph.B. 1905 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, III. 
O'DONAGHUE. Dr. John B., os. 1913 8 S. Michigan St., Chicago, III. 
O'DONNELL, James V., LL.B. 1889 440 Barry Ave., Lakeview Sta., Chicago, III. 
O'DONNELL. Joseph P., Ph.B.Com. 1927 5S50 Kcnmore Ave., Chicago, III. 
OELEBICH, Frank J., Com. 1906 864 Larabee St., Chicago, III. 
OELERICH, Joseph P.. os. 1909. el. 1925 864 Larabee St., Chicago, HI. 
O'GRADY. George J., LL.B. 1923 c-o Cooke, SuiliiTin & Ricks, Straus Bldg., Chicago, III. 
O'HANLEY, Joseph B., A.B. 1929 6545 Greenwood Ave., Chicago, III, 
O'HANLEY, John L., B.C.S. 1927 6545 Greenwood Ave., Chicago, Dl, 
O'HARA, James W„ LL.B. 1913 1033 Loyola Ave., Chicago, III. 
O'HARE, Russell J., B.S. Agri. 1924 7353 Dorchester Ave., Grand Crossing Sta., Chicago, III. 
O'HEARN. A. F.. A.B. 1934 5422 Quincy St.. Chicago, IlL 
O'KEEFE, Francis J., B.S.JLE. 1933 4943 West End Ave., Chicago, III. 
O'KEEFE, J. Barry, A.B. 1932 4841 W. Adams St., Chicago, III. 
O'JIALLEY, John F,. LL.B. 1930 6234 Kenwood, Chicago, 111. 
O'MALLEY, Thomas A., A.B. 1932 9654 Indiana Ave., Chicago, III. 
O'-MALLEY. W. L.. LL.B. 1931 8225 S. Hermitage St , Chicago. III. 
O'NEILL. Hugh, LL.B. 1891, LittB. 1892 29 S. LaS-lle St. Rm. 1058, LL.M. 1892 Chicago, III. 
O'NEILL. Robert D.. C.E. 1925 823 Garfield Blvd.. Chicago, III. 
O'NEILL, R. S., LL.B. 1914 Rm. 3100, .35 E. Wackcr Drive, Chicago, III. 
G'SHAUGHNESSY. James B., A.B. 1932 4748 Beacon St, Chicago, III. 
G'SHAUGHNESSY. John J.. A.B. 1933 4443 N. Ashland Ave., Chicago, HI, 
OSHE, Hon. Mircellus M., LL.B. 1912 6756 Oglesby Ave., Chicago, 111. 
O'SHEA. Maurice J., E.E. 1920 8133 Kingston Ave., Chicago, III. 
OSTRANDER, Joel W., A.B. 1932 1649 Lunt Ave., Chicago, 111. 
O'TOOLE, Donald E., A.B. 1931 7137 Luella Ave., Chicago, 111. 
O'TOOLE, Edw,ard P„ LL.B. 1925 Rm. 1450, 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, III. 
O'TOOLE, Paul L., A.B. 1932 7137 Luella Ave., Chicago, III, 
OTT, Jr., Ed«-ard J., Ch.E. 1922 421 W. 60th St, Chicago, III. 
PALMER, Cornelius, os. 1920 39 S. LaSalle St, Chicago, III. 
PAQUETTE, Charles A., B.S. '90, LittB. '91, 1735 FuUcrton Ave., C.E. "91, M.S. '95 Chicago, III, 
PATTERSON. George A.. Ph.B. Com. 1923 6826 Newell Ave., Norwood Park Sta., Chicago, 111. 
PENDEBGAST, Francis J., A.B. 1927 1000 Loyola Ave., Chicago. III. 
PENDEBGAST, Robert L.. A.B. 1931 1000 Loyola Ave.. Chicago. III. 
PFOHL. Paul J.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1922 8010 Phillips Ave.. Chicago. III. 
PHALIN. Howard V.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 6151 Winthrop Ave,, Chicago, III. 
PHELAN. Richard L.. A.B. 1928 3644 Pine Grove Ave.. Chicago. III. 
PHILLIPS, Eugene M.. B.S. Phar. 1928 7401 Emerald Ave, Chicago, 111, 
PIETROWICZ, Stephen R., A.B. 1926 1429 Farwell Ave., Chicago, III. 
PLANT, John, E.E. 1914 3306 "Wilson Ave., Ravenswood Sta., Chicago, III. 
PLISKA, Joseph S., M.E. 1915 6524 Emerald Ave., Chicago, ill. 
PLOUFF, Jr., L, Thomas, LL.B. 1923 2221 Lunt Ave., Chicago, III. 
PODLASKI. Charles G., B.S.E.E. 1931 3953 S. Rockwell St, Chicago, III. 
PODRAZA. Julian J., B.S.C.B. 1934 1341 N. Campbell St. Chicago. III. 
FORTERFIELD, John D., B.S. 1934 1525 W. Garfield Blvd., Chicago, III. 
POWERS, Andrew C., A.B. 1928 30 N. LaSalle St, Chicago, III. 
POWERS. John F., os. 1900, el. 1926 6316 N. Rockivell St, Chicago, 111. 
POWERS. Leo J., LL.B. 1925 Rm. 1263, 231 S. Lafialfe St., Chicago, III, 
POWERS. M. Kdly, Ph.B.Com. 1932 6316 N. Roclniell St, Chicago, III, 
POWERS, OVner P., Ph.B.Com. 1932 5444 Potomac Ave., Chicago, III. 
POYNTON, John H., B.S.C.E. 1933 9115 S. Loomis St , Chicago, 111. 
PURDY. John Phelps. A.B. 1934 6901 Ogleshy Ave., Chicago, HI. 
QUINLAN, John M., A.B. 1904 10211 S. Hoyne Ave., Chicago, III. 
QUINLAN, Richard D., LL.B. 1928 39 S. LaSalle St, Box 3, Chicago, 111. 
QUINN. Philip F.. A.B. 1928 4737 Jackson Blvd., Chicago, III. 
RADOSEVICH, John C, B.C.S. 1931 9237 Commercial Ave., Chicago. 111. 
RAFTER. Edward P., Ph.B.Com. 1928 4441 West End Ave., Chicago, HI. 
RAGEN. Jr., James M., A.B. 1929 10756 S. Sceley St , Chicago, III. 
RARE. John S.. Ph.B.Com. 1922 Scott Store 100. 5832-34 W, Chicago Ave., Chicago, III. 
RAYBURN. Jerome W.. A.B. 1928 5539 Lakewood Ave.. Chicago. III. 
REESE. G. K.. A.B. 1934 3500 Sheridan Road. Chicago, III. 
REGAN. George J., E.K 1914 3136 N. Parkside, Chicago, 111. 
REIDY, Jeremiah J., A.B. 1932 6538 Ellis Ave., Chicago, 111. 
REYNOLDS. Harold P.. LL.B. 1929 3643 S. Hamilton Ave.. Chicago, HI. 
RICKASD. Vernon E.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1924 6452 Dante Ave.. Chicago. III. 
RIGNEY, James S., A.B. 1930 5907 Midway Park, Chicago, III, 
RIGNEY. Robert J.. A.B. 1928 5907 Midway Farlc. Chicago. III. 
RIGNEY. William T.. A.B. 1927 5907 Midway Park, Chicago, 111. 
ROACH, Edward A., Litt.B. 1913 120 S. LaSalle St, Chicago, III. 
ROACH. James E.. C.E. 1916 6019 N. Claremont Ave., Chicago, III. 
ROCHELEAU. George A., A.B. 1934 1340 Arthur Ave., Chicago, III. 
ROCHETTO. Louis R.. 6839 Ridgeland, Chicago, III. 
ROHLOF, Louis R., B.S.E.E. 1932 10523 Normal Ave.. Chicago. III. 
RONAN. James A.. A.B. 1926 127 N. Dearborn St, Chicago, III. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALtTMNUS 
RONEy. Hichnrd T.. A.B. 1932 653 Wrightwood Ave, ChicaKO. 111. 
RUPP. ^Villiam P., A.B. 1933 7026 Chappel Av e Chicago, III. 
RUSK, David K., B.S.Ph.vs.Ed. 1931 4950 N. Albany St., Chicago, 111. 
RUSNAK, John S., A.B. 1932 11829 Wentworth Ave, Chicago, lU, 
RYAN. Ambrose E., A.B. 1933 1440 N. Mason Ave., Chicago, III. 
RYAN, Dr. Edward C, B.S, 1916 1724 W. 105th St., Chicago, 111. 
RYAN. •Edw-in L., Ph.B.Com. 1927 6414 Wayne Ave., Chicago, 111. 
RYAN. Joseph C, A.B. 1924 1400 Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, 111. 
RYAN, Roger M., B.S.Phar. 1924 7746 Coles Ave., Chicago, HI. 
RYAN. Thomas A., A.B. 1929 Lake Shore Drive Hotel, 181 Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, III. 
RYAN. William P., M.B. 1924 133 N. Menard Ave., Chicago, III. 
RYDZEWSKI, Frank X.. LL.B. 191S 8355 Burley Ave., Chicago, 111. 
SACKLEY. Riimev J. Ph.B J. 1917 7.M0 Ridge Blvd., Chicago, III. 
ST. GEORGE. Maximilifn J., LL.B. 190S Suite 1026, 29 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. III. 
SAJEWSKI. Arthur W.. Ph»r. 1925 325.', Diversey Ave., Chicago, III. 
SALVATY, Benjamin B. A.B. ig.lS 63?3 Sheridan Ro"d, Chicago, III. 
SANFORI>. J«mes E . Ph.B. 1915 1251 Arthur St., Chicago. Ill, 
SCA'ES. Jo'=eph M. A.B. 1930 6227 St. Lawrence Ave., Chicago. III. 
SCAT,I.AN. John W. A B. 192.^ 79 B. Adams St., Chicago, 111. 
SCH'AVONE. Leo V., A.B. 1932 8336 Drcxel Ave., Chicago, III. 
SCHI-rErKERT. Charles W., B.C S. 1929 1244 Norwood St., Chicago, III. 
SCHNEIDER. Richert G., A.B. 1932 International House, Rm. 559, Chicago, III. 
SCHUESSLER, Charles A.. B.S.C.B. 192S 321 N. Central Ave.. Chicago, 111. 
SCHUH, Bernard R., Ph.B. Com. 192S 7153 Indiana Ave., Chicago, III. 
SCHWARTZ. Marchmont H., A.B. 1932 Chicago University, LL.B. 193.1 Chicago, III. 
SCULLY. Vincent, os. 1914 306 S. Michigan Blvd., Chicago, III. 
SEAMAN. Harry G., A.B. 1931 147 N Menard Ave., Chicago, III. 
SEITZ. Reynolds C, A.B. 1929 1426 Estes Ave., Chicago, III. 
SENN, R-lph W., B.C.S. 1924 1211 W. 82nd St., Chicago, III. 
SEXTON. Thomas Webb, A.B. 1933 6517 Newgard Ave., Chicago, III. 
SHANAFIELD. Harold A. A.B. 1927 4722 Albany Ave., Chicago, III. 
SHAUGHNESSY. Thomas J. B.S. 1915 103 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. Ill, 
SHEA, Wlliam J. S.E.E. 1915 1847 Tonhy Ave., Chicago. III. 
SREEKETSKI, Joseph L., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1933 Silver Creek Coal Co., Loomis at 22nd St., Chicago, III. 
SHEILS, Joseph P., A.B. 1800 184 Leamington Ave., Chicago, III. 
SIEBER. Raymond J., Litt, B. 1913 733 Briar Place, Lakeview Sta., Ghicaga III. 
SIEGLER. Michael A., Ph.B.For.Com. 1924 860 N. State St., Chicago Ave. Sta., Chicago, III. 
SJIALLWOOD, Charles T., B.Arch. 1930 6710 N. Artesian Ave., Chicago, III, 
SMETANKA, Joseph G.. A.B. 1929 7345 Oglesby Ave., Chicngo, 111. 
SJHTH, Arthur C, B.C.S. 1933 1304 Hood Ave., Chicago. III. 
SMITH, David H., B.Arch. 1928 5643 Morgan, Chicago, 111. 
SMTH. John A.. B.C.S. 1929 5321 Winthrop, Chicago, 111. 
SMTH, IVilliam G., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1933 33 N. Austin Blvd., Chicago, III. 
SJIOLA, Frank A., A.B. 1929 4659 Drexcl Blvd., Chicago, III. 
SNITE. Fre<Ierick B.. B.C.S. 1933 105 W. Madison St.. Chicago, III. 
SOUHRADA. James. 6s. 1893, el. 1928 5927 S. Troy St.. Chicago, III. 
SPENCER. Howard J.. Ph B.Com. 1925 4036 N. Avers Ave., Chicago. 111. 
SPUI.I.ER. L-wronre W.. J.D. 1<>24 
112] Conuav BIdg., Chicngo, 111. 
STANCE. W:i'i"n J., el. 192S 2J59 W. Madison St., Chicago, III. 
STEELE. Sherman. Litt.B. 1897. LL.B. 1899 2S N. Fronklin St., Chicago, III, 
STEERS. Fred L.. I.LB. 7911 1666 First Nnfl Bank BIdg., Chirago, III. 
STET.ZER- H-rold J.. B.S.C.B. 19.11 5019 W. Adims St., Chicago, III. 
STEMPEB. R. J., Ph.B.For.Com. 1934 11415 Prairie Ave.. Chicago. III. 
STEPAN. Alfred C A.B. I93I 3000 Sheridan Roiid, Chicago, III, 
STEPHAN .Tohn B., Ph.B.Com. 1923 6441 Lakewood Ave., Chicego, 111. 
STEPHAN Rol-ert f)., A.B. 1927 6441 L.ikewood Ave,, Chicago, III. 
SULLIVAN, John B.. B.S.E.B. 1927 7450 N. Artesian Ave., Chicago, III. 
SULLIVAN. John J., B.Arch. 1933 771S S. Aberdeen St., Chicjigo, 111. 
SULLIVAN. John B.. LL.B. 1931 4048 W. Adams St., Chicago, HI. 
SULLIVAN. Joseph J., Lilt.B. '01. LL.B. '02 Rm. 1300. 139 N. Clark St., Chicago, III. 
SULLIVAN, Jr., Joseph J.. A.B. 1927 2601 Sunnyside Ave., Chicago, III. 
SULLIVAN. Joseph S., LL.B. 1929 10 S. LaSalle. Chicago. III. 
SULLIVAN. Joseph V.. A.B. 1897 3300 Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, III. 
SUBDYTS. Jerome S.. B.S. 1933 3226 Warren Blvd., Chicago, III. 
SWENIE, Denis J., A.B. 1930 2136 Fremont St., Chicago, III. 
TAYLOR. ^Villi.^m J., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1931 7843 Chappcll Ave., Chicago, III. 
TENNES. Monty J., B.C.S. 1928 3400 Sheridan Road, Chicago, 111. 
THOMPSON. Bernard E.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 435 E. 82nd St.. Chicago. III. 
TOOHEY. James A. S.E.B. 1903 1230 Columbia Ave., Chicago, III, 
TOOHEY. Joseph L., A,B. 1902 6315 N. Clark St., Chicago, III. 
TROMAN. Joseph M., Ph.B.For.Com. 1923 6524 Greenview Ave., Chicago, III, 
TROTTER. Rol-ert M. 4220 West End Avenue, Chicago, 111. 
UEBBING, Albert, B.S. 1920 6213 Greenwood Ave., Chicago, III. 
UFFENDELL. William G.. el. 1920 1801 Prairie Ave.. Chicago, lU. 
VAICHDLIS. John A., B.S. 1929 116 B. 107th St , Chicago, HI. 
VAIKASAS. C»simir J., B.S.Phar. 1932 1749 S. Halsted St.. Chicago, HI. 
VAN DOLHAN. Alvin T., Ph.BJ-. 1922 1640 W. 65th St. Chicago. HI. 
VAN ETTEN. Henry N.. B.C.S. 1929 11357 Indiana Ave., Chicago, HI. 
VAN ETTEN. Milton X... B.S.C.E. 1932 11357 Indiana Ave., Chicago, HI. 
VABBAVETO. Patrick M., B.S.Arch.E. 1923 5471 Division St, Chicago, IlL 
VAUGHN. Champ C, A.B. 1927 7911 S. R'cine Ave., Apt 211, Chicago, TO. 
VESELY. Jerome A., B.S. T9.'!3 2531 S. St. Louis Ave., Chicago, 111. 
VYZRAL. E-Iivi-rd F., A.B. 1934 4936 S. Lincoln St, Chicago, HI. 
WA.AGE. G»orge. os. 1916 3305 Wrightwood Ave., Chicago. III. 
WAGNER. .Tnsenh A., Ph.B.C. 1924 
37.51 N. M-rshfield Ave.. Chicago, 111. 
WALLACE. T„aTOrenc» A., Ph.B.J. 1921 1062 AinsHe St, Chicego. III. 
WALSH. Fra-k ,L, LLB. 1926 
1.34 S. L«SalIC St, Chicago, HL 
WALSH. J-wes R.. Ph.C. 1917 1130 B. Slst Place, Chicago. III. 
WALSH. Thomas A.. B.C.S. 1923 5153 S. Francisco Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
WALSH. Thomas J.. LL.B. 1924 3048 Kingston Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
WALTERS. Emil R.. B.S.Ch-B. 1930 3122 Evans Ave.. Chicago, HI. 
WARD. Arch B.. os. 1921. el. 1931 Chicago Tribune, Chicago, III. 
WARD. GeorTC G., LL.B. 1925 5812 N. M-plewood Ave., Chicago, HI. 
WEBER. Wllliom J., os. 1925, cl. 1929 3423 Sangamon St, Chicago, HI. 
WEINRICH, Arthur C, os. 1919 Rm. 1323, One LaSalle BIdg., Chicago, HI. 
WHITE, James E., LL.B. 1928 4934 Jackson Blvd., Chicago, HI. 
WHITTY. Elmer J., os. 1911, cl. 1923 6529 Kenwood Ave., Chicago, III. 
WILKINS. Donald J.. A.B. 1927 5000 Washington Blvd.. Chicago. 111. 
WILLIAMS. Joseph R.. MJV. 1925 5746 N. Rockwell. Chicago, HI. 
WILSON. John H., A.B. 1932 2631 B. 7-lth St, Chicago, III. 
WINTER, Robert P.. os. 1923. el. 1930 112 S. Waller Ave.. Chicago, III. 
WITTERIED. George C, LL.B. 1921 125 N. Union St, Chicago. 111. 
WOLSKI. Andrew H.. LL.B. 1925 4515 S. Turner Ave.. Chicago. lU. 
WOODS, Edward T.. A.B. 1933 7839 Colefax. Chicago. III. 
WRAY. George M.. A.B. 1928 1127 Loyola Ave., Chicago, 111. 
WYNNE. Elmer B.. LL.B. 1928 5256 Fulton St. Chicago, III. 
XELOWSKI. Thaddeus Z., A.B. 1933 3930 Pine Grove Ave., Chicago, IB. 
YOUNG. James F., LL.B. 1923 633 Waveland Ave., Chicago, lU. 
ZIHERLE. Francis A., A.B. 1931 9525 Avenue M, Chicago, III. 
ZIMHE8MAN. Arthur C, A.B. 1928 6735 Merrill Ave., Chicago, III, 

SUPtXiEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALtTMNUS 
CHICAGO HEIGHTS ASHDOWN, Walter U , S.E.B. 191G. E.E. 1918 286 W. 15tJ», Chicaso Heights. HI. 
ZIHMEEIilAN, Bernard J.. B.C.S. 1934 1416 N. Paulina St, CIiicaBo, HI. 
TERRE, Wilbert L., B.S. 1931 2730 Chicago Boad. Chicago Heights. 111. 
CHUiLICOTHE 

WARD. Robert E.. Ph.B. Com. 1934 330 N. Sixth St.. Chillicothe, HI. 
CICERO CERMAK. Jerome F., os. 1913 2231 S. 61st Ave., Cicero. HI. 

LABEDZ, Thaddens E.. A.B. 1929 1931 S. Austin Blvd.. Cicero. HI. 
PETRAUSKAS. A. A. B.S.E.B. 1931 1603 S. 50th St, Cicero, HI. 
aUIGLEr, Thomas, LLB. 19J2 2116 49th Court, Cicero, HI. 
COLUNSVUiE NILLER. A. W„ A.B. 1928 e-o Hotel Fairmont. Collinsville. 111. 
CRYSTAL LAKE KELLEY. Walter P.. LL.B. 1931 Crystal Lake. HI. 
KNOX. Rohert V.. B.Arch. 1928 Box 232. Crystal Lake. HI. 
KNOX, Vernon J.. A.B. 1931 Crystal Lake. III. 
McGRATH. Arnold. Ph.B.Com. 1922 Route 2. Crystal Lake. HI. 
DANVILLE BALDWIN, Donald S.. LL.B. 1929 1626 Vermilion. Danville. HI. 
BARTON. Dr. Francis W.. B.S.Biol. 1895 402-4 First National Bank BIdg.. Danville. HI. 
BLACKMAN, Everett A., B. Arch. 1919 1611 Gilbert, Danville, 111. 
BROWN. William C. B.C.S. 1932 729 Commercial St. Danrille. 111. 
HEITZLER. Joseph W.. A.B. 1931 
W. North St. Danville. HL 

DECATUR COOK,-Laurens, os. 1920, el. 1926 305 W. Macon St. Decatur. HI. 
DOWNING. William P.. LL.B. 1914 110 N. Water St. Decatur. HI. 
WALSH, Thomas F.. B.S. 1928 S t Teresa High School. Decatur. 111. 
DEERFIELD BURGHART. Robert E., Ph.B.Com. 1932 Deerfield. HI. 
DE KALB CONUN, John E.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 627 N. 7th St. De Kalb. HI. 
HENADGHAN. John B.. Ph.BJ'or.Com. 1923 607 S. 4th St, De Kalb. HI. 
DE PDE GURNETT. Gail V., B.S.Ch.E. 1926 De Poe, HI. 
DIVBENON NEESON. Richard T.. A.B. 1930 Piveraon. HI. 
DIXON CAHILL, John H.. B.C.S. 1933 618 S. Galena Ave.. Dixon. 111. 
DtSON. Sherwood. I.L.B. 1920 120 K First St, Dixon. HI. 
FRY, Paul, Ph.G. 1927 210 W. Third St, DLxon. 111. 
JONES, R. Gerald. LL.B. 1922 112 Crawford Ave.. Dixon, 111. 
JONES, J. Willard, Ph.B.Com. 1925 122 Crawford Ave., Dixon, 111. 
JUDGE, Joseph P., A.B. 1932. LL.B. 1934 216 R 7th St. Dixon, HL 
LAHEY, John, Ph.G. 1928 Dixon. 111. 
jrUBPHY, Dr. Darid. B.S. 1925 405 N. Galena Ave., Dixon, III. 
SrURPHY, Edward S., B.S. 1931 303 E. Everett St, Dixon, HL 
O'JIALLEY. Edward A., A.B. 1932 825 S. Hennepin Ave, Dixon, HL 
O'ilALLEY, George F., Ph.B. Com. 1930 825 S. Hennepin Ave.. Dixon. 111. 
D^VIGHT HALLORAN, Edward W., A.B. 1930 318 W. Delaware. Dwight HI. 
EAST MOUNE KING, Francis C. LL.B. 1919 State Bank BIdg., East Moline. 111. 
EAST ST. LOUIS McGLYNN, Jr.. Daniel F.. LL,B. 1918 120 N. Main St. East St Louis. HI. 
McGLYNN. Joseph B.. LL.B. 1912 120 N. Main St. East St Louis. HL 
McGLYNN, Robert E., LL.B. 1923 120 N. Main St, East St Louis, HI. 
STISKIN, Rabbi Maurice N.. MJV. 1932 1402 Summit East St Louis. IlL 
ELIZABETH BANWORTH, Cletus S., B.S. 1927, M.S. 1932 Elizabeth, HL 
ELGIN ARNFIELD, Fremont LL.B. 1912 570 Spring St, Elgin, HL 
CANNON, Richard G., B.C.S. 1932 670 Chicago St, Elgin, IlL 
FUNK, Paul G., LL.B. 1924 381 River Bluif Road, Elgin, 111. 
HARRIS, Thomas M.. LL.B. 1906 230 Commonwealth Ave., Elgin, HL 
HEjnnNG, Dr. Philip C. B.S. 1929 268 N. Commonwealth Ave.. Elgin, 1)1. 
HOBAN, Thomas J., LL.B. 1918 487 Barrett Place. Elgin. HL 
JAltlES. John J.. LL.B. 1924 216 Gommon^^'ealth Ave.. Elgin. IIL 
KEARNS, Jr.. John T.. B.S.C.E. 1929 
Y. M. C. A.. Elgin. Ill 

MCCARTHY, Frank A. LL.B. 1906 10-16 Elgin Nafl Bank BIdg.. Elgin. IlL 
MCCARTHY, John v., LittB. 1914. LL.B. 1914 Elgin Nafl Bank BIdg., Elgin. III. 
MCNERNEY, John L.. A.B. 1934 392 Raymond St. Elgin. 111. 
McNERNEY, Lawrence M., LL.B. 1906 Courier-News BIdg.. Elgin. HI. 
MCOSKER. Edward J.. Ph.BX 1917 104 S. Union St. Elgin, HL 
MEAGHER, Bernard P.. E.E. 1924 496 Ashland Ave., Elgin. IlL 
KHTCHELL. Arthur J., A.B. 1931 430 N. Worth Ave., Elgin. HL 
NEWMAN, John B., Com. 1890 460 N. Spring St, Elgin, IlL 
PERCE, William E., LL.B. 1906, LL.M. 1907 Elgin, HI. 
SCHLAGER. Roland G.. Ph.B.Com. 1929 335 Watres Place, Elgin, HL 
TOBIN, Elmer C. S.E.E. 1915. LL.B. 1917 505 Prof. BIdg., Elgin, DL 
TOBIN, James W„ B.S. 1929 540 South St, Elgin, HL 
TOBIN, Dr. John R., eL 1929 165 Milwaukee St, Elgin, IlL 
TOBIN, Paul G., B.S. 1928 540 South St, Elgin, IlL 
ELMHUBST BUEVERNICHT. Jerome D., LL.B. 1923 330 Elm St. Elmhurst. HL 
CURTIS, Daniel C, LL.B. 1917 442 Elmpark A^-e., Elmhurst 111. 
FISCHER. Howard C, A.B. 1933 134 Cottage Hill Ave., Elmhurst HI. 
McGUIRE, Thomas P., M.E. 1913 183 Arlington Ave., Elmhurst, HI. 
HURRAY. Joseph R., Ch.E. 1914 432 Kenilworth Ave., Elmhurst. HI. 
SPANGGNBERG. Charles E.. A.B. 1932 235 St Charles Ave.. Elmhurst 111. 
EVANSTON BERTEUNG, John F , C.E. 1908 2425 Park Place. E%-anston. III. 
FOX. Milton F., B.C.S. 1930 3016 Grant St, Evanston, HL 
HARFST. John H.. B.C.S. 1933 1005 Hinman. Evanston. III. 
MURTAUGH. James P.. LL.B. 1922 Evanshire Hotel. Evanston. IIL 
PETERSEN, Arthur E., B.C.S. 1930 319 Custer, Evanston. III. 
POLLARD. B. C. B.S.Ch.E. 1934 2206 Hartzell St, Evanston. 111. 
RIORDAN, Stephan P.. A.B. 1904. LL.B. 1906 2104 Uncoln St, Evanston, 111. 
ROBERTS, Chester J., os. 1924 2143 Lincolnwood Drive, Evanston, IlL 
PARMER CITY MURPHY. Daniel L., LL.B. 1905 Farmer City, 111. 
FOREST PARK FIEDLER, Arthur C, Ph.B.Com. 1930 914 Marengo Ave., Forest Park, 111. 
RAFNER Edmond W.. B.C.S. 1934 941 Marengo Ave.. Forest Park. IIL 
TROOST. CTarence W.. B.S.Arch.E. 1932 447 Hannah St. Forest Park. HL 
PEEEPOET LAWLESS, Thomas S.. A.B. 1929 705 S. Liberty Ave., Freeport, 111. 
RYAN, Edwin S.. C.E. 1923 21SK W. Stephenson St. Freeport IIL 
RYAN, Francis J., RE. 1914 626 E. Jefferson St, Freeport, IIL 
GALENA SLATTERY, James R., B.S. 1933 516 Spring St, Galena, 111. 
STEPHAN, Raymond V., LL.B. 1903 Bench St , Galena, HL 
GALESBURG GRAHAM. Edwin A.. A.B. 1934 347 S. West St. Galesburg. HI. 
MURPHY, George E., A.B. 1934 976 Beecher Ave.. Galesburg, IIL 
SLAVEN, Edward P., A.B. 1927 709 S. Seminary St, Galesburg, HL 
GENEVA CHRISTIANSEN, John C, B.S.RR 1930 702"FonBSt Ave., Geneva. lU. 
LENNABTZ, Francis J.. B.S.RR 1933 220 Campbell St . Geneva. 111. 
LENNABTZ. George G.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1933 220 Campbell St. Geneva, IIL 
O'CONNELL. John W.. R R 1913 Geneva, IIL 
GLENCOE COBBETT, Jr., William J., Ph.B.Com, 1927 425 S. Sunset Lane. Glencoe. til. 
DKISCOLL. Stephen J.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 Glencoe. HL 
FELTES, Norman N., Ph.B,C. 1924 271 Vernon Ave., Glencoe, IIL 
GBAFTDN GALBRAITH, Thomas P., B.S-Areh. 1932 Pere Marquette State Park, Grafton, HI 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
HAREISBUSG O'BRIEN, Frank J., B.C.9., 1929 114 S. McKinley. Harrisbure, III. 
HARVEY NEES. Francis J., A.B. 1926 14816 Tarlington Ave., Hatvey, HI. 
VOSS. John E., B.S. 1932 157 E. 155th St, Harvey, 111. 
VOSS, Jr.. tVilliam L., Ph.B.Com. IMS 15521 Vine Ave., Harvey, 111. 
HIGHLAND PAKK FITZGERALD, William J., LL.B. 1921 li s First St., HiBhland Park, HI. 
HIGHWOOD O'CONNOR, Jr., R, D. B.S.Phy.E. 1934 311 Palmer Ave., Hishwood, HI. 
HINES FINNEGAN, Wales E., S.E.E. 1910 Co Veterans Bureau, Hines, 111. 
HINSDALE CASEY, Daniel V., Litt. B. 1895 148 E. Sixth St.. Hinsdale, 111. 
ILLIOPOLIS NEFF, Wm. L., B.C.S.For.Com. '29, M.A. '33 514 N. Main St., lUiopolis, III. 
NELSON, John E., B.S.Ch.E. 1930, M.S. 1931 Illiopolis, III. 
JACKSONVILLE DONAHOE, St. J., OS. 1901, cl. 192S 1201 S. Main St., Jacksonville. 111. 
JIANDEVILLE, Edward, A.B. 1926 923 S. Main St., Jacksonville, HI. 
JOLIBT ADLER, Joseph L., Ph.B.C. 1924 318 Bnell Ave., Joliet, 111. 
BOSStNGHASr, William J., LL.B. 1925 408 Bnell Ave., Joliet, HI. 
DE LORENZO, Charles, os. 1917 1408 N. Collins St., Joliet, III. 
DUFFY, Robert K, LL.B. 1931 503 Western, Joliet, 111. 
DUKDA, Raymond J., B.C.S. 1931 704 N. Raynor Ave., Joliet, HI. 
DLTJN, Francis, el. 1922 107 Gtenwood, Joliet, III. 
DWYEK. Joseph E.. LL.B. 1934 609 W. Marion St, Joliet, HI. 
FARRELL, Simon T., MJI. 1914 Iranhoe Apt, 211 Scott St, Joliet, 111. 
FEELY. Thomas P., B.Arch. 1932 316 Buell Ave., Joliet, HI. 
FRANCK, E. L., B.C.S. 1931 610 Prairie Ave,, Joliet, 111. 
HERINGER, Leo C , B.C.S. 1924 414 New St, Joliet HI. 
KING, Edward, Spec 301 Ruby St, Joliet HI. 
KIRINCICH, Joseph V., A.B. 1933 SOO Ruby St , Joliet, III. 
LENNON, Charles P., B.C.S. 1930 60S Herkimer St, Joliet HI. 
MARCUS, John R., Fh.B.Com. 1930 1417 N. Kaj-nor Ave., Joliet, HI. 
MARTIN, James B., M.E. 1923 403 Richmond St, Joliet HI. 
SIASSEY. Georse J., LL.B. 1914 110 Bnell Ave, Joliet, HI. 
SUYER, Dr. Edward J., os. 1925 301 Ruby St, Joliet HI. 
SILK, Joseph, os. 1920 820 Ohio St, Joliet, 111. 
WALLACE, Joseph J., os. 1920 132 Hlinois St, Joliet HI. 
WILHELSn, Clarence W., os. 1918 909 Onieda St, Joliet HI. 
KANKAKEE BIRES, Joseph Anthony. B.C.S. 1934 372 N. Indian Ave., Kankakee, HI. 
FORTIN. Albert C. C.E. 1902 1122 E. Court St, Kankakee, 111. 
O'SIALLEY, Edward F., B.S.ror.Com. 1932 444 B. Chestnut St, Kankakee, III. 
BOTH, Dr. Jesse H.. A.B. 1910. M.S. 1914 504 Cobb Bids., Kankakee, III. 
SCHHJIACHER, Francis J.. LL.B. 1933 538 S. Myrtle Ave., Kankakee, HI. 
KEWANEB GARLAND. Maurice J.. A.B. 1934 342 S. Cottasre St , Eewanec. HI. 
MOORE. Eraerit E.. A.B. 1933 617 S. Chestnut St, Kewanee, HI. 
BINELLA. Samuel J., B.C.S. 1932 207 LyIe St, Kewanee. HI. 
SJOBERG. Ralph R, Ph.B.Com. 1921 730 Rockwell St, Kewanee, HI. 
WELCH, Thomas J.. LL.B. 1905 Savings Bank Bids., Kewanee, III. 
ZANG, Henry N., B.C.S.For.Com. 1929 209 S. Chestnut St , Kewanee, HI. 
Z-4NG, Paul R.. B.C.S. For.Com. 1929 209 S. Chestnut St.. Kewanee. III. 
LA GRANGE ARTJLiNN. Wlliam P.. B.S.Phy8.Ed. 1931 63G N. Waiola Ave., LaGranse. HI. 
BABR. Fred N., Ph.B.Com. 1929 212 S. Brainard Ave.. LaGrange, III. 
BAER. Robert L., A.B. 1931 212 S. Brainard Ave., LaGrange. HI. 
BIRKBECK. Cyril T..B.E. 1924 308 S. Edgewood Ave,, LaGrange, HI. 
CHASIBERS, Francis J.. B.S.Min.B. 1931 110 N. Madison, LaGrange, III. 
GARLAND, Leo B.. B.C.S. 1931 151 Brainerd St. LaGrange, III. 
KUHLE. Albert A., Ph.B. 1915 SOO Bell Ave., LaGrange. HI. 
TULLY, John. E.B. 1911 200 South Park Road. LaGrange. III. 
LAKE BLUFF KLOCK. Paul R.. A.B. 1929 Box 374, Lake Bluff, 111. 
LAKE FOREST FRITZ, William H., LL.B. 1921 324 Woodine Place. Lake Forest. HI. 
LAKE VILLA 

WILLIAMSON, James T., A.B. 1930 Lake Villa. HI. 
LA SALLE CAHILL, James F.. LL.B. 1914 649 First St, LaSalle. HI. 
CLANCY, John E., Ph.B.Com. 1920 641 First St, LaSalle, HI. 
DUNCAN, Paul E., B.C.S. 1931 801 Seventh St, LaSalle, III. 
DUNCAN, Waller J., Ph.B. 1912 658 First St, LaSalle. 111. 
HURLEY, James D.. LL.B. 1924 713 First St, LaSalle, HI. 
LEMONT GERHARZ, Robert J., A.B. 1932 Lemont, HI. 
KEOGH, Francis M., C.E. 1894 Lemont, 111. 
PIEKABSEI. Frank E., Min.E. 1924 Lemont, III. 
RIORDAN, John S., A.B. 1929 Lemont, III. 
SHAFRANSKI. B. J. Ph.BJ'or.Gonl. 1931 ISO Stephen St , Lemont^ HL 
STARSHAK. N P., B.C.S. 193t 715 Singer Ave, Lemont, HL 
UBERTTVILLE DUBA. Silvin P., BJVrch. 1928 Libertyville, HI. 
KOHOUT. Paul L., Fh.B.C. 1925 Libertyville, 111. 
LINCOLN McGOUGH. Edward W., os. 1912. el. 1932 Box 207, Lincoln, HI. 
LOCKPORT . RODIGHERO. Rudolph 6., BJlrcb. 192S 
W. Ninth & Ames St, Lockport HL 

MACOMB MONROE, George M.. A.B. 1929 214 W. McDonald St, Macomb. III. 
MATTOON GRANT, Paul F., A,B. 1931 2409 Western Ave., Mattoon, HI. 
GRANT, William D., A.B. 1930 2409 Western Ave., Mattoon, HI. 
KELLEY. John R., A.B. 1934 1516 Lafayette St . Mattoon, HI. 
SULLIVAN. John 0.. B.C.S. 1934 3316 Prairie Ave, Mattoon, HI. 
•nVNEN. Brvan H.. Mu.>!.B. 1891. LL.B. 1892 1S19 Broadway Ave.. Mattoon. HI. 
MArWOOD BIRCH. John B., B.S. 1934 418 N. Third St. Maywood. HI. 
HOOVER. Charles E.. A.B. 1929 822 S. 16th Ave, Maywood. HI. 
MURRAY, John T.. Ph.B.Com. 1933 700 N. Second Ave., Maywood, HI. 
SISIPSON. Harold N„ B.S. 1930 1825 S. 12th Ave. Maywood. HI. 
MELROSE BUSSCHER, Harry A.. A.B. 1930, LL.B. 1932 1014 17th Ave, Melrose Park. HI. 
MENDOTA DUBBS. James H.. A.B. 1932. tL.B. 1934 409 13th Ave., Mendota, HI. 
DUBBS. John W.. LL.B. 190.1 
S. 13th Ave., Mendota. HI. 

ItlAODEN, Ralph C, LL.B. 1906 Faber BIdg.. Mendota, III. 
SIUNSON, IVancis E., LL.B. 1903 Mendota, HI. 
MINONK RIELY, Edward F., LL.B. 1915 Minonk, HI. 
MOUCNE CORYN, John R., Ph.B.Com. 1922 1546 12th Ave. Moline, HL 
KING, Charles J.. M.B. 1921 36th St, & 23rd Ave, Moline, HI. 
MEEBSHAN. Joseph C. M.R 1921 35th St , & 23rd, Moline, III. 
MEERSHAN, Peter J.. LL.B. 1913 State Trust Bids., Moline, 111. 
SOLLO, Charles F.. LL.B. 1925 1811 15th St , Moline, 111. 
VANDER VENNET, G. W.. LL.B. 1932 1613 16th Ave, Moline, 111. 
MOMENCG PARISH. Vamum A.. LittB. 1908 Parish Bank BIdg., Momence, HI. 
PARISH, William J., Ph.B. 1912 Momence, HL 
SWEET. Philip M.. 9.Com. 1917 122 N. Pine St, Momence, HL 
MONHCELLO 

WALSH. Vincent T., A.B. 1928 Uonticello, HL 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
MORMS GRAHAM. Raymond J.. B-Arch.EnB. 1917 406 E. Jefferson. Morris, 111. 
MOUND CITY McNEILE, James J., Ph.B-For.Com. 192S 119 High St., Mound City. III. 
MEYER, Carl F.. B.S.C.E. 1932 103 S. Third St.. Mound City. 111. 
O'SULLIVAN. Jr.. D.-iniel. Ph.B. Com. 1923 Mound City. 111. 
O'SHLUVAN. Jr.. Daniel. Ph.B.Com. 1923 Mound City. 111. 
MT. CARMEL HENNEBERGER, Francis J.. B.C.S. 1931 126 E. Fourth St.. Mt. Carmel. 111. 
KOLB. Walter F.. A.B. 1930 522 Mulberry St.. Mt Carmel, III. 
MT. MORRIS McGOIRE, Harry A.. A.B. 1925 
C.OOutdoor Life Publishing Co., Mt. Morris. III. 
MT. VERNON BEY. Robert J.. B.C.S. 1930 401 N. Seventh St. Mt Vernon, 111. 
MIXNDELEIN FITZGERALD, Don.-ild A.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 Mundelein. 111. 
MUHPHYSBORO JEWETT, Georsc E.. B.S.C.E. 1929 Murphysboro. Ill, 
NAPERNILLE SCHWARTZ, Jr.. Charles L„ B.C.S. 1930 151 N. Ellsworth St. Naper\-illc. III. 
SCHWARTZ. Eugene R., B.S.C.E. 1927 Vice Pres.. C. L. Schwartz Lumber Co., Naperville, III. 
NEW ATHENS MUELLER. Charles W.. B.S.E.E. 1934 208 S. Benton St, New Athens, III. 

PROBST. Isfried. B.S.Ch.E. 1926 New Athens. 111. 
NEW BERLIN SULLIVAN, William B.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 New Berlin. 111. 

OAK PARK AMATO, Francis X., B.C.S.For.Com. 1930 330 N. Austin Ave., Oak Park, 111. 
BASKERVILLE. Adrian J.. B.C.S. 1933 805 S. Kenihvorth Ave., Oak Park, III. 
BROMANN, William H.. B.C.S. 1930 1026 Randolph St. Oak Park, 111. 
CHOUFFET. Charles A.. B.C.S. 1924 727 N. Elmwood Ave., Oak Park. 111. 
COGLEY. Edward A., A.B. 1933 423 S. Scoville Ave., Oak Park. 111. 
COOKE, Hiirold J.. Ph.B.C. 1924 411 W. Washington Blvd.. Oak Park. III. 
DIRE. Joseph. A.B. 1928 605 N. Oak Park Ave.. Oak Park, III. 
DOHERTV, George W.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 304 S. Grove Ave.. Oak Park, III. 
DONLAN, Joseph R., LL.B. 1931 1010 Woodbine St , Oak Park, 111. 
DONLAN, Martin A.. B.C.S. 1934 1010 Woodbine St, Oak Park. 111. 
DOWNS. Francis J., LL.B. 1931 121 Wesley Ave., Oak Park, III. 
FEENEY. Michael A,. B.C.S. 1934 839 Lake St. Oak Park, III. 
GOEUTZ, William G.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 639 Fair Oaks Blvd., Oak Park. III. 
GOBE, Robert H.. B.S.Agri. 1931 200 Home St . Oak Park. III. 
GORMAN, John P., A.B. 1934 949 N. East Ave., Oak Park, III. 
GRAY, James E.. A.B. 192S 823 S. Lombard Ave.. Oak Park. 111. 
HARRINGTON. John D., B.C.S. 1929 219 N. Oak Park Ave.. Oak Park. III. 
HENNEBERBY, John A., os. 1925, el. 1930 714 S. Highland Ave.. Oak Park. III. 
HOOVER. John B.. A.B. 1929 227 N. Oak Park Ave., Oak Park. III. 
IGOE. James T.. A.B. 1932 1134 N. Columbian Ave.. Oak Park. HI. 
LEAHY". James E.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 805 Wesley Ave., Oak Park, III. 
LEAHY". John B., os. 1924, el. 1932 342 S. Austin Blvd.. Oak Park. 111. 
MOORE. Daniel A., A.B. 1927 740 S. Oak Park Ave.. Oak Park. III. 
MORAN. John T.. A.B. 1930 724 Wesley Ave.. 0.ak Park. III. 
O'NEIL. Thomas J.. LL.B. 1930 209 Washington Blvd., Oak Park. III. 
PUBCELL, Thomas J.. A.B. 1930 1132 N. Elmwood St. Oak Park. III. 
RIGALI. Joseph L.. os. 1926 602 Wenanahon Ave., Oak Park, III. 

RICALI. Paul A., B.S.Arcli.E. 1933 120 Washington Blvd.. Oak Park. 111. 
RY'AN. Donald T.. B.S.E.E. 1932 601 Gunderson Ave.. Oak Park. III. 
RY^AN. Edward B.. A.B. 1931 526 Lyman Ave.. Oak Park. III. 
TUOHY". John O.. A.B. 192G 428 Washington Blvd.. Oak Park. III. 
OKA^WILLE FRANK. William G.. B.C.S. 1934 Okaw\-ilIe. 111. 
OTTAWA CARR, Robert C. Ph.B. 191G. AJt. 1917 Central BIdg., Ottawa. III. 
LUCEY, John J.. B.C.S. 1929 622 Pearl St . Ottawa. III. 
O'MEARA. Thomas J.. LL.B. 1918 Route 1. Ottawa, III. 
WHITE. William M.. B.S.Agri. 1921 R.F.D. 2. Ottawa. 111. 
PANA CONDON. Leo J., E.E. 1912 Box 312. Pana. III. 
JACKSON. Anthony M.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1923 Route 2. Box 51. Pana. III. 
PARIS COADY. George T.. B.SJ:.E. 1933 609 Marshal Ave., Paris, III. 
RIEDELL, John C. B.S.Arch.R 1931 320 E. Crawford St. Paris. 111. 
PEORIA CARR. Harry W.. B.Arch. 1909 1211 Glcndale Ave.. Peoria, III. 
CAVANAUGH, Leo P., LL.B. 1924 907-10 Jefferson BIdg.. Peoria. III. 
DOLAN, James C. LL.B. 1922 1216 N. Madison Ave.. Peoria. III. 
DUANE. M.D.. Dr. Joseph P.. LittB. 1899 418 Jefferson Bids., Peoria, 111. 
FURSTOSS, Ralph J., B.SJiLE. 1933 217 N. Orange St. Peoria, III. 
GENDf. Floyd A.. B.S.E.K 1929 423 S t James Ave.. Peoria, III. 
GIBSON. Leigh F.. LL.B. 1894. I,L.M. 1895 700 Ayres Ave., Peoria, III. ^ 
GURY, Jr., Albert F.. A.B. 1928 612 Albany Ave.. Peoria, lU. 
KLEIN, Francis A., A.B. 1926 The Peoria Journal-Transcript. Peoria, III. 
LANGTON. J. Joseph. Ph.B.Com. 1928 201 Hillyer Place. Peoria. III. 
HcGRATH, Joseph M.. M.E. 1916 308 Barker Ave.. Peoria. III. 
MAY. •William E.. Ph.B.Com. 1929 332 Callender Ave., Peoria, 111. 
JIEYER. Frederick J., B.C.S. 1933 610 Atlantic St, Peoria. 111. 
MOTSETT, William J., A.B. 1934 lOD N. Maplewood Ave., Peoria. 111. 
NOPPENBERGEB. John A.. B.S.Agri. 1925 Spalding Institute, Peoria, III. 
O'MEARA, Vincent D.. LL.B. 1928 Kibler's Clothing Co.. Peoria. 111. 
PRATT, Henry R.. A.B. 1930. LL.B. 1932 231 N. Underbill St. Peoria. 111. 
RAINEY", R. W.. B.C.S. 1934 101 N. Elmwood Ave.. Peoria, 111. 
SLEVIN. J. L. Spalding. OS. 1900. el. 1923 805 Lehman BIdg., Peoria. III. 

SLOAN, John P.. B.C.S. 1933 233 N. Underbill St. Peoria, HI. 
SPRENGER. George W.. LL.B. 1908 Peoria Life Bldn.. Peoria, 111. 
VAN SANT. Dr. L. R.. os. 1901. el. 192S 700 S. Adams St, Peoria. HI. 
VOEGELE. Joseph T,. P.E. 1934 114 Butler St.. Peoria. III. 
WELZENBACH, Alois J.. B.C.S. 1930 512 E. Wilcox Ave.. Peoria, III. 
WIELE. Arthur J.. B.C.S. 1934 600 W. Armstrong. Peoria. 111. 
WIELE. Robert F.. B.S.M.B. 1934 600 W. Armstrong. Peoria. III. 
PERU FLAHERTY, James J.. Ph.B. 1908 1020 Plain St. Peru. 111. 
POLO BRACKEN. Robert. LL.B. I90S 109 N. Franklin St.. Polo, 111. 
PONTIAC HERR. Jesse J.. Ph.B. 1913 919 E. Washington St. Ponti.-ic. 111. 
NOLAN. M-tthew. A.. B.S.M.E. 192S 921 S. Mill St. Pontine. III. 
WALSH, Francis T.. LL.B. 1920 219 Stcrry Block. Pontine. III. 
QUINCY FISCHER, Lawrence J.. B.S.E.E. 1932 2200 York St, Quincy, III. 
HEINTZ. Charles F.. Ph.B.Com. 1926 2127 Ohio St, Quincy. III. 
HEINTZ. Edu-ard J.. B.C.S. 1925 2232 Payson Ave.. Quincy. III. 
MOLLER. Lawrence P.. B.S.Arch. 1931 1260 Park Place, Quincy, III. 
SALKtON. Louis J., C.B. 1905 
C.ONewcomb Hotel. Quincy. III. 

THOLEN. Henry S., Ph.B.Com. 1932 930 Kentucky St . Quincy, 111. 
PARK RIDGE HARBERT. George E.. LL.B. 1918 425 N. Ashland Ave.. Park Ridge. 111. 
KELLY, Thomas D., A.B. 1929 435 Ashland Ave.. Park Ridge, III. 
SUSEN, B. P.. Ph.B.Com. 1922 410 S. Prospect Ave., Park Ridge, III. 
TBDITT. Harley R.. B.S.Phar. 1930 621 Ashland Ave., Park Ridge, III. 
PLAINFIELD ROBERTS, ayde A.. B.S.E.E. 1934 Division St , Plainfield. III. 
RIVER FOREST BIDWILL Arthur J., LL.B. 1926 1403 Bonnie Brae Ave., River Forest, 111. 
BRENNAN, James H., os. 1920. el. 1926 830 N. Harlem Ave.. River Forest. 111. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUMNUS 
BRICHACEK. Francis A., Ph.B.Com. 1932 1346 Park Ave., River Forest. III. 
COJIEFORD, William P., B.C.S. 1932 743 Forest Ave., Kiver Forest, 111. 
HURLEY, Jr., Neil C. A.B. 1932 914 A^land Ave., River Forest, III. 
McCRACKEN, David R, A.B. 1928 1215 Park Ave., River Forest, III. 
McKEOWN, Joseph P., Pii.B.C. 1924 265 Lake St., River Forest, 111. 
MULLEN, Cyril J., A.B. 1930 609 William, River Forest, III. 
RTVERSIDE CREADON, Francis P., A.B. 1928 220 La\vton Road, Riverside. III. 
ENDRES, John J., Ph.B.Com. 1926 73 N. Longcommon Road, Riverside. III. 
FLOCK. Bernard J.. Ch.E. 192S 434 Kent Road, Riverside, III. 
KLUG, Robert J., A.B. 1925 308 Blackhawfc Road, Riverside, 111. 
ROBINSON BRADBURY, J. Stanley, LL.B. 1923 First National Bank Bide., Robinson, III. 
BRADBURY, William E.. LL.B. 1916 First National Bank Bide.. Robinson. 111. 
KENEFAKE. Edu-in W.. B.S.E.E. 1934 Route 1, Robinson, III. 
ROCHELLE CARNEY, Vincent F., A.B. 1929 600 SL-rth St.. Eochellc. III. 
DeCOURCEY, Edward D., B.SJVgri. 1921 Rochelle, III. 
HOOLEY, John C. B.S. Ph.-ir. 1931 720 First Ave., Rochelle, III. 
O'BRIEN, George D., LL.B. 1921 728 Sixth SU Rochelle, III. 
O'NEIL, Paul F., A.B. 1933 205 Seventh St , Rochelle, III. 
ROCK FALLS CONDON, Waller T., B.SJlgri. 1925 
R. F. D. 2, Rock Falls, III. 

ROCKFORD CONDON, Leonard W., B.C.S. 1932 1731 Clinton St., Rockford, 111. 
DORAN, Robert J., Ph.B.Com. 1926 328 S. First St., Rockford, 111. 
FANNAN, J. Henry, Ph.B.Jour. 1924 2216 W. State St., Rockford, 111. 

GAFFNEY. Raymond, os. 1922 527 N. Second St., Rockford, 111. 
HOWLAND, Francis W., B.C.S. 1925 902 N, Main St., Rockford, III. 
HYLAND, Clifford F., BJirch. 1932 216 N. Central Ave., Rockford, III. 
LORDEN, Elbridge M., Ph.B.C. 1924 318 S. Main St., Rockford, III. 
MARELLI. Raymond C. Ph.B.Com. 1927 1418 Eighth St., Rockford, 111. 
MONTI, Albert R., Ph.B.Com. 1930 1015 N. Court St. Rockford. 111. 
O'CONNOR. Harold J.. B.C.S. 1932 204 Summit St , Rockford, III. 
PETRITZ, Frank J. M., M.E.E.B. 1903 2534 Auburn St , Rockford. III. 
SKEYHAN, George A., Grad.Ph.Tr. 1925 726 N. ^Vinnebago St , Ph.Chcm. 1926 Rockford, III. 
SOHERS. Michael F., Ph.G. 1911 202 W. State St, Rockford, III. 
BOCK ISLAND BERBERT. Leo J., LL.B. 1927 608 Best BIdg., Rock Island, III. 
HIMBERT. Arthur L.. A.B. 1932 £27 39lh St, Rock Island, 111. 
MURPHY, Hayes, OS. 1927, el. 1931 Rock Island, III. 
SrURPHY, J. F., LL.B. 1899, LL.M. 1900 1250 21st St, Rock Island, III. 
MURPHY, M. J.. A.B. 1931. LI,.B. 1934 1250 21st St, Rock Island, III. 
REPINE, Joseph C. A.B. 1934 1111 Ave.. Rock Island, III. 
SJUTH, Oscar F.. LL.B. 1895 702 20th St , Rock Island, III. 
UHLSIEYER, Vance N., B.S. 1932 616 44th St, Rock Island, III. 
SCALES MOXTND ALLAN, James A., A.B. 192S, LL.B. 1930 Scales Mound, III. 
SHAWNEETOWN a\RROLL, Albert. Ph.B.Com. 1922 Shawneetown. III. 
SOUTH WILMINGTON AGAMY, John R., B.C.S. 1931 South Wilmington, 111. 
SPRINGFIELD CARROLL. John M., A.B. 1928 1328 Dial Court, Springfield, III. 
CHDRCHJLIN, Joseph H.. B.C.S. 1933 108 E. Cook St, Springfield, III. 
CORCORAN. Charles G.. C.E. 1917 1134 W. Jlonroe St. Springfield. III. 
FOGARTY. James W.. B.C.S. 1930 614 S. Seventh St , Springfield, HI. 
GOLOBOWSia, J. T., B. Arch. 1931 816 S. Fifth St. Springfield. III. 
GRAHAM, James R., B.S.C.E. 1926 1537 S. Douglas Ave., Springfield, III. 
KINNEY, Michael M., A.B. 1931 Corporation Dept., State House, Springfield, III. 
MCCARTHY, Joseph, Ph.B. 1927 1404 S. State St, Springfield, III. 
McCONNELL, Paul D.. B.C.S. 1932 326 W. Jackson St , Springfield, III. 
McGLONE, Bernard G., B.S.C.E. 1931 317 W. S. Grand, Springfield, III. 
NEAL, Adrian D., B.S.E.E. 1933 Springfield Junior College. Springfield. III. 
QUINN. J.imes B.. LL.B. 1897 831 N. Seventh St. Springfield, III. 
SCHLIPP. Albert C. LL.B. 1916 714 First Nat'l Bank Bldg.. Springfield, III. 
WALSH. Bernard A.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1929 1522 S. Seventh St . Springfield. III. 
WALSH, David M.. B.C.S. 1934 1522 S. Seventh St . Springfield. III. 
WORTHINGTON. Earl C. BJVrch. 1927 625 S. Seventh St. Springfield. 111. 
ZIMJIEBMAN. Frank R.. B.C.S. 1926 931 N. Rutledge St, Springfield. 111. 
ZIILMEBJIAN. George W.. B.C.S. 1932 931 N. Rutledge St. Springfield. III. 
ZIMMERJIAN, Ralph E., B.C.S. 1929 931 N. Rutledge St., Springfield, III. 
SIEE, Edward F., LL.B. 1914 11 E. Third St, Sterling, IlL 
MEE, Thomas S., I.L.B. 1915 Sterling, III. 
STONINGTON LIVERGOOD, Bernard B., Ph.B.C. 1925 Stonington. HI. 
STREATOR CONNESS, Robert E., Ph.B.Com. 1931 201 W. Wilson. Streator. 111. 
MOHAN, Elmer J., LL.B. 1917 401-2 Murray Bldg., Streator, III. 
FURCELL, Robb J., A.B. 1933 216 LaSalle St, Streator, 111. 
RYAN, John K, A.B. 1932 3Z6 N. Bloomington, Streator, III. 
SUMMIT GENTIU. Louis R.. A.B. 1932, LL.B. 1934 5427 73rd St, Summit HI. 
TEDTOPOLIS SIEMEK, J-oseph B., A.B. 1932 Teutopolis, III. 
VIRDEN MURPHY, James P., B.S. 1934 105 S. Finis St, Virden, III. 
VIRGIL SCHUH. Vincent A.. Ph.B.F.C. 1925 
Virgil. III. 

WAUKEGiiN BOWER, John E , B.C.S. 1925 302 Cory Ave., Waukegan, HI. 
DURST. William R.. Ph.B.Cora. 1916 929 North Ave.. Waukegan. in. 
EDWARDS. Erskine C. A.B. 1932 445 N. Genesee. Waukegan. HI. 
FOLEY. Dr. Charles J.. B.S. 1925 532 Washington St. Waukegan, HI. 
FOLEY. Edward F.. A.B. 1931 532 Washington St , Waukegan. HI. 
GOSTISRA. John R,. B.C.S. 1932 824 McAlister Ave.. Waukegan, HI. 
KIRBY. William T.. A.B. 1932. LL.B. 1934 610 N. Sheridan Road. Wankeean. HI. 
LOCKWOOD. Alexander J.. Ph.B.F.Cnm. 1923 Johnson Motors Co.. Waukegan. III. 
SHHAN. Donald E., B.C.S. 1931 210 N. Utica St, Waukegan, HI. 
REARDON, Raymond J., A.B. '30, LL.B. '33 433 Cory Ave.. Waukegan. HI. 
README. William S.. B.C.S. 1931 425 N. Sheridan Road, Waukegan, HI. 
WEST CHICAGO FOXEN. George J.. B.C.S. 1934 313 F\ilton St, West Chicago, HI. 
WEST FRANKFORT DUNN, Leonard J., A.B. 1932, LL.B. 1934 1737 E. Main St. West Frankfort, HI. 
LAND. John B.. B.S.E.E. 1934 1203 E. St Louis St. West Frankfort. HI. 
WHEATON 

CASE. Charles E . Ph.B.P.C. 1925 204 W. Foust Ave.. Wheaton. HI. 
RAJIACCIOTTI. Mario J,. B.S. 1930 Wheaton. HI. 
WILMETTB CULVER. Alvin S.. Ph.B.Cbm. 1932 103 Broadway, Wilmette, HI. 
EPPIG, Arthur G.. B_Arch. 1933 827 Ashland Ave., Wilmette, HI. 
KELLEY. Edward P.. B.C.S. 1932 1100 Elmwood Ave.. Wilmette, 111. 
McCANNEY, Vincent A.. B.&SJor.Com. 1934 160 Prairie Ave.. Wilmette, HI. 
SHELLY. Joseph D., A.B. 1925 1622 Central Ave., Wilmette, HI. 
TURNER. M. J.. 05. 1913, el. 1929 518 Forest Ave., Wilmette, III. 
WIDGER, Francis E.. B.C.SJor.Cbm. 1934 128 Fifth St, Wilmette. HL 
WIUnNGTON HENNEBRY, Hon. Michael F.. LL.B. 1S3S ^Vilmington, HI. 
^VILSONVILLE LaDAME, John W., A.B. 1932 Bo-t 158, Wilsonville, HI. 
•SVINNBIKA HUDSON. Henry N., A.B. 1928 57 Wanvick St, Winnetka, IlL 
•WITT STACDER. La-ivrence F.. B.S.E.B. 1929 VTitt. 111. 
WOODSTOCK CARROLL, •William M.. LL.B. 1915 345 Dacy St., Woodstock, 111. 
DONOVAN, PanI J.. LL.B. 1910 Woodstock, ni. 
FIELD, Oliver F., LL.B. 1931 318 W. Calhoun, Woodstock, III. 
ZOIA, Clyde J.. LL.B. 1918 223 Throop St., Woodstock, 111. 
INDIANA 
ALBION SEYSIOURE, Harold B., A.B. 1931 Albion, Ind. 
ANDERSON CRIMMNS, John M., J.D. 1933 232 W. Seventh St.. Anderson. Ind. 
FOGARTY, James P., Ph.G. 1922. Ph.C. 1923 1219 Fletcher St., Anderson, Ind. 
FUNK, Elmo A., C.E. 1911 334 W. Tenth St, Anderson, Ind. 
KING, Dr. Darid B., B.S. 1924 Anderson, Ind. 
LAVELLE, Thomas F., A.B. 192S 
B. R. 12, Anderson, Ind. 
O'NEILL, Philip B., LL.B 1901, LL.M. 1902 
E. 13th St., Anderson, Tnd. 
ROSE, Thomas A., Ph.G. 1922 1704 W. 15th Ave., Anderson, Ind. 
TOOLEN, John J.. B.C.S. 1925 314 B. 11th St., Anderson. Ind. 
AUBURN HEUPEL, Frank G., Ph.B.For.Com. 1929 202 S. Cedar St., Auburn, Ind. 
RAINIER, James N., Ph.B.Com. 1930 110 B. Third St., Auburn, Ind. 
BATESVILLE HILLENBRAND. Carl, os. 1927, el. 1931 Batesville, Ind. / 
HILLENBRAND, John W., B.C.S. 1925 Batesville, Ind. 
HILLENBRAND, William A., Ph.B.Com. 1927 Batesville, Ind. 
ROSIWEBER, Paul C, A.B. 192S Batesi-ille, Ind. 
BEDFORD DONOVAN, Clarence J., LL.B. 1931 1142 M St., Bedford, Ind. 
HEITGER, Louis C , B.C.S. 1931 1702 N St , Bedford, Ind. 
HEITGER, Robert H., B.S.Areh.E. 1933 1702 N St, Bedford. Ind. 
WALLNER, George L., Ph.B.Com. 1927 1117 13th St. Bedford, Ind. 
WALLNER. Marshall S.. B.S.Phar. 1931 1117 13th St. Bedford. Ind. 
BICKNELL 
RUBLE, Charles B.. LL.B. 1923 Bicknell. Ind. 
BREMEN CARSON, Claude D.. LL.B. 192C Bremen. Ind. 
BROOKVILLE GLASER, Robert R. B.S. 1932 647 Main St . Brookville, Ind. 
CHAUIERS BABR. William B., LL.B. 1926 Chalmers, Ind. 
COLLEGEVILLE GATNOR. Thomas P„ UttB . 1919, A-M. 1924 S t Joseph CoUese, CoUcBeville, Ind. 
COLUMBIA CITY PHILLIPS, Viridlius A.. A.B. 1932 
R. R. No. 9. Columbia City. Ind. 
COLUMBUS HILGER, James R., A.B. 1932 536 Sycamore St, Columbus, Ind. 
HILGER, Joseph P., A.B. 1928 536 Sycamore St, Columbus. Ind. 
CONNEESVILLE CONLEY, Charles A., A.B. 1933 814 Lincoln Ave., Connersvitle, Ind. 
HEEB, Albert P., LL.B. 1925 314 Eastern Ave., Connersville, Ind. 
HEIN"EMAN, Charles W., A.B. 1929 sol Charles St. Connersville. Ind. 
HEINEMAN, Georsre A., A.B. 1930 301 Charles St , Connersville, Ind. 
HEINEMAN, John L., LL.B.. 1888 301 Charles St , Connersville, Ind. 
CRAWFORDSVILLE FOLEY, Bernard B.. Iatt.B. 1923, LL.B. 1925 Crawfordsville, Ind. 
MOLONY, Justin J., LL.B. 1911 706 Binford St , Crawfordsville, Ind. 
CROWN POINT HENRY, Albert, LL.B. 1927 Cro^vn Point, Ind. 
LOYCE, Ray A.. B.C.S. 1930 Crown Point, Ind. 
SIALONEY, Patrick; LL.B. 1916 219 Pettibone Ave.. Crown Point. Ind. 
ROHRBACH, John M., LL.B. 1923, M.A. 1925 Lake County Title & Guaranty Co., Crown Point Ind. 
SHERMAN. ^Vilton J., LL.B. 1931 358 East St, Crown Point, Ind. 
CULVER DOYLE, Harry M., Ph.BJEki 1922 Culver, Ind. 
DECATUR DEININGER. Richard G., Ph.B.C. 1924 Decatur, Ind. 
HYLAND, A. P., B.C.S. 1929 122 S. Fourth St, Decatur, Ind. 
KOHNE, Gerald J., Grad.Phar. 1925 603 JefTerson St, Decatur, Ind. 
SCHMITT, Aloi-sius D., Ph.B.Com. 1921 413 Mercer Ave., Decatur, Ind. 
SMITH, Othmar B.. Ph.G. 1924 110 S. Fourth St. Decatur, Ind. 
VOGLEWEDE. Robert B., B.C.S. 1929 509 Monroe St , Decatur, Ind. 
DELPHI HASILING, John H., LL.B. 1925 Delphi, Ind. 
HAUGH, Richard E , B.C.S. 1929 209 W. Front St, Delphi, Ind. 
DYER 
SCHALLER, Norbert C, B.SJhar. 1932 Dyer, Ind. 
EAHL PARK KEEFE, Dr. Thomas L.. B.S. 1922 Earl Park, Ind. 
EAST CHICAGO ANDERSON, Paul J., os. 1924, el. 1931 710 Exchange Ave. East Chicago, Ind. 
BANAS, Stephen P., A.B. 1934 710 143rd St, East Chicago. Ind. 
BELL. James X.. Ph.B. 1923 4512 Forsythe Ave.. East Chicago. Ind. 
BENANTE. Paul S.. LL.B. 1926 3603 First St. East Chicago. Ind. 
CALLAHAN, Frank R., LL.B. 1930 3719 Fir St, East Chicago, Ind. 
CALLAHAN, Thomas W., LKB. 1931 3719 Fir St, East Chicago, Ind. 
CARROLL, Hugh R, LL.B. 1916 
U. S. Nat'l Bank Bldg„ East Chicago, Ind. 
DAERR. Robert L.. LL.B. 1934 415 Broad St, East Chicago, Ind. 
ESOLA, Charles J., LL.B. 1930 3510 Grand Blvd., East Chicago, Ind. 
HAVRAN. Thaddens D.. LL.B. 1930 4110 Fir St, East Chicago, Ind. 
JOHNSON, William J., B.S.ChJ:. 1929 3428 Rr St, East Chicago, Ind. 
ELKHART ARMSTRONG, Edmond. A.B. 1930 417 W. Second St, Elkhart Ind. 
BROWN. Francis R. LL.B. 1928 126 Water St, Elkhart, Ind. 
CARDINALE, John O., B.S.Phy.Ed. 1934 
R. R. No. 4, Elkhart, Ind. 
CHESTER, Willard H., os. 1911, el. 1923 1601 R Jackson Blvd., Elkhart, Ind. 
DeDARIO, Anthony J„ LL.B. 1929 725 Harrison, Elkhart, Ind. 
DALTON, William D., LL.B. 1900 203% S. Main St. Elkhart Ind. 
GILDEA. Austin C, LL.B. 1930 Equity BIdg., Elkhart Ind. 
HAPPER. Thomas V., LL.B. 1929 c-o Robert Proctor, Monger BIdg,, Elkhart, Ind. 
HUFFMAN, David P.. M.A. 1933 1900 Prairie St. Elkhart Ind. 
LOCKE. John C. LL.B. 1901 
R. R. No. 2. Elkhart. Ind. 
PEQUIGNOT, Robert R. B.C.S. 1930 1108 Cleveland Ave., Elkhart Ind. 
PROCTOR, Robert E., LL.B. 1904 201-205 Monger BIdg., Elkhart Ind. 
PROCTOR. Jr.. Robert R, B.S.C.E. 1933 417 Prospect St. Elkhart Ind. 
RANDOLPH, Clare L., LL.B. 1933 1814 S. Sixth St, Elkhart Ind. 
SANDUSKY, Raymond D„ LL.B. 1930 1048 R Jackson Blvd., Elkhart Ind. 
SIEVERS. Alex P., LL.B. 1927 1906 E. Jackson St, Elkhart, Ind. 
SHURR. James E., LL.B. 1929 1421 W. Franklin. Elkhart. Ind. 
WOODFORD, Leon, os. 1911, el. 1921 Monger BIdg., Elkhart Ind. 
ZIFFRIN, Herman A.. LL.B. 1933 216 Edoity BIdg., Elkhart, Ind. 
ELWOOD CONNER. James J., B.C.S. 1929 Elwood, Ind. 
EVANSVILLE BRAY. Adam J.. B.S. 1930 616 N. Wabash Ave.. Evansville. Ind. 

ELPERS, Richard C, A.B.Joum. 1928 407 Adams St, Evansville. Ind. 
GRAY, W. W., B.S. 1884 911 Citizens Bank BIdg., Evansville, Ind. 
KERSTING, Raymond R, B.SJor.Com. 1927 613 ColJese Highway, Evansville, Ind. 
LENSING. Fred W.. A.B. 1930 905 S. R Second St, Evansville, Ind. 
anLLER. Edward B., M.R 1924 
C.O Rickert Insurance Agency. Evansville. Ind. 
RUDD. Joseph R.. A.B. 1929 1119 Southeast Riverside Drive. Evansville. Ind. 
SCANLAN, John M.. B.S.RR 1932. M.S. 1933 714 R Gum St . Evansville. Ind. 

FORT WAYNE APP, Paul M.. B.C.S. 1930 2516 West Drive. Fort Wayne, Ind. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS 
APP, Richard P.. Ph.B.C. 1925 2516 West Drive, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
BALDUS, Georse H., M.E. 1924 4429 Arlington Ave., Fort "Wayne, Tnd. 
BERGER. Alvin. Ph.B. 1915 1031 Columhia Ave., Port Wayne, Ind. 
BOI.AND, Maurice J., Ph.B.C. 192S 930 Columhia Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
BRE5NAHAN, Edmond J„ B.C.S. 1928 1211 IJike St., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
CENTLIVRE, Herman G., Ph.B.C. 1925 322 E. State St, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
CLEARY. M. J., OS. 1924 111 W. Washineton, Port Wayne, Ind. 
CORBETT, Frank B., A.B. 1930 2S01 Ullie St, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
COX, Wayne R.. B.C.S. 1925 c-o Standard Oil Co., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
DeWALD. Maurice J.. B.C.S. 1933 G35 Pierce Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
DIL1,0N. Joseph B., A.B. 1930 1609 Kelley Drive, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
D1LI.0N. Walter F.. A.B. 1932 1609 Kelley Drive, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
DINNBN. Dr. James M.. A.B. 1896 225 W. Wayne St, Fort Wayne. Ind. 
DDKE. Harold E.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 SeoS W Drive, Fort Wayne, Ind, 
EGGEMAN. Hon. John W.. LI..B. 1900 First & Tri-City Bank Bldg.. Suite 1201, Port Wayne, Ind. 
EGGEMAN, Robert F.. tL.B. 1930 522 Meyer Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
FERLINI, Alvaro. B.S. 1931 918 E. Wayne St, Fort Wayne. Ind. 
FLEMING, Stephan B.. el. 1930 1031 W. Berry St, Fort Wayne. Ind. 
FOX. Oscar A., LL.B. 1907 121 Clinton St, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
GILMARTIN. Edward T.. os. 1896 1203 W. Wayne St, Fort Wayne. Ind. 
GILMARTIN. Francis J., os. 1901 336 W. Wooland Ave., Fort Wayne. Ind. 
GORDON, Georse W., LL.B. 1927 1317 W. Washington St, Fort Wayne. Ind. 
GORDON. Robert K, LL.B. 1925 1317 W. Washington St, Fort Wayne. Ind. 
HASLEY, Henry. A,B. 1928 Morris, Newldrk & Hasley, Peoples Trust Bldg., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
HAYES. Byron. LL.B. 1913 908 Tri-State Bldg.. Fort Wayne, Ind. 
HAYES, Joseph C, Ph.B.Com. 1923 1829 Hoagland, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
HAYES. Thomas A.. LL.B. 1916 c-o Hilgcman & Schaaf. 120% E. Washington, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
HOGAN, Francis M.. LL.B. 1914 409 Dime Bank Bldg., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
HOGAN. Harry G.. LL.B. 1904 1221 W. Rudisill Blvd., Fort Wayne. Ind. 
KORAN, Joseph J.. B.S.E.E. 1928 Sheridan Apt, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
HmiBRECHT, Heniy J.. B.SJlrch.E. 1934 2327 Oakridge Road, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
LOGAN, F. Leslie, Ph.BJor.Com. 1923 816 N. Anthony, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
MCDONALD, Donnelly P.. E.E. 1912 Peoples Trust & livings Co., Fort Wayne, Ind, 
McGILL, James F., B.C.S. 1933 2901 Hoagland Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
MCKIERNAN , Thomas, Ph.B.Com, 1927 Old National Bank ot Fort Wayne, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
MADDEN, J. J., Ph.B.Com. 1928 919 Rivennet. Fort Wayne, Ind. 
MALONEY , Bernard P., Ph.B.Com. 1927 2114 S. Lafayette, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
AIETRAILER, Francis M., B.S.B.E. 1929 3020 Plaza Drive. Fort Wayne, Ind. 
SULLEK, Arthur W., A.B. 1928 508 W. DeWald St, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
SDLLER. Jerome J., Ph.B.J. 1917 311 Creighton Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
SnLLER, Sebastian J., Ch.E. 1925 1317 Jackson St, Fort Wayne. Ind. 
MORSCHES, Gerald, A.B. 1926 427 Downing, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
MORSCHES, John P., Ph.B.Com. 1927 1601 S. Calhoun St, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
MOYLAN. Thomas H.. LL.B. 1925 215 E. Lewis St, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
MURPHY, Harry J., A.B. 1934 422 Oakdale Drive, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
NAGELSEN, Lou M., os. 1910 1847 California Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
NIEZER, Charles M., os. 1897, el. 1925 1301 Westover Road, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
NIEZER, Louis F., A.B. 1929 1301 Westover Road, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
O'CONNOR, John A., B.C.S.For.Com. 1933 2440 Hoagland Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
REUSS, Charles J., el. 1911 1649 Spy Run Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
ROHYANS, Emmett A.. LL.B. 1920 323 Cal.-Wayne Bldg., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
SAGSTETTER, Paul, EE . 1925 130 W. Creighton St, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
SCHENKEL, N. J., B.S.CJ!. 1934 1811 Franklin Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
SCHOPPMAN, Frederick D.. LL.B. 1930 1246 Hugh St, Fort Wayne. Ind. 
SOSENHEIMER, Robert F., B.C.S. 1931 322 W. Woodland Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
SULLIVAN, Edward S., E.E. 1924 125 B. Suttenfield St, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
WARD, Clifford B., Ph.B.Joum. 1923 4108 Tacoma Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
WILLIAMS, John R, A.B. 1931 1320 W. Wayne St, Fort Wayne. Ind. 
FRANKFORT GRUBER, Earl F.. LL.B. 1905 Suite 22, Dinwiddle Bldg., Frankfort, Ind. 
LEWIS, Robert P., A.B. 1933 758 N. Columbia Ave., Frankfort, Ind. 
GARRETT TOHULKA. K. D. B.S.Phar. 1931 614 E. Keyscr St, Garrett, Ind. 
GARY 

BADER, Clarence W., S.Com. 1919 650 Pierce St, Gary, Ind. 
BOYLE, Paul J., A,B. 1933 638 Virginia Ave., Gary, Ind. 
DAVIS, Robert L., A.B. 1932 548 Fillmore, Gary, Xnd. 
FLANNERY, Harry W., Ph.BJoura. 1923 
K. of C. Hotel. Gar>-, Ind 

FIELD, Dwight L.. B.S.Ch.E. 1926 4433 Harrison St , Gary, Ind. 
GEOHEGAN, Harry, os. 1904, el. 1927 4534 Van Buren St, Gary, Ind. 
GRIFFIN, Thomas J., LL.B. 1929 727 Van Buren St, Gary, Ind. 
HAGUE, Harry G., os. 1908. cl. 1929 119 W. 46th Ave., Gary, Ind. 
HANNABACH. Francis J., B.S.C.E. 1931 440 Tyler, Gary, Ind. 
HANON, Otto S., Ph.G. 1910, Ph.C. 1911 625 Maryland Ave., Gary, Ind. 
HAYES, John C., B.S.C.E. 1934 563 Jackson St , Gary, Ind. 
JOHNSON, Thomas J.. Jr., LL.B. 1929 Lake St Forrest Ave.. Gair, Ind. 
JONES, Charles W.. os. 1918, el. 1925 1957 Broadway, Gary, Ind. 
JIALONEY, Michael F.. A.B. 1926 679 Harrison St , Gary, Ind. 
QUDJN. James J., B.C.S. For. Com. 1929 636 Fillmore St, Gary, Ind. 
RUBERTO. John H.. JJ). 1933 32 W. Fifth Ave., Gary, Ind. 
SSHTH, Jerome F., B.C.S. 1930 746 Van Buren St, Gary, Ind. 
STANTON, David P., LL.B. 1926 3712 Jackson St, Gary, Ind. 
STANTON. John N., LL.B. 1924 113 E. 43rd St, Gary, Ind. 
GOSHEN HERSHFIEU). Myron C, B.C.S. 1931 110 B. Madison St, Goshen, Ind. 
SCHNUR. Martin J., OS. 1895, el. 1925 211 Wilkinson St, Goshen, Ind. 
GRANGER COLEMAN„ Donald D., LL.B. 1931 
S. R. 1, Bo.x 2, Granger, Ind. 

GRBENSBDRG RUST. Oskar D.. A.B. 1929 Greensburg, Ind. 
HAMMOND BIEKER. Lawrence W., B.S. 1927 243 Ogden St , Hammond, Ind. 
BROWN, Martin C., LL3 . 1925 Citizens Nat'l Bank Bldg., Hammond, Ind. 
CLARK, James J.. LL.B. 1923 Lloyd Bldg., Hammond, Ind. 
DONALDSON. Joseph F., LittB. 1923 605 Sibley St, Hammond, Ind. 
GALVIN, Frank J., LL.B. 1923 First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Ind. 
GALVIN, T. P.. Ph.B. 1916 first Trust Bldg., Himmiond, Ind. 
HARTING, Werner R, B.CSJor.Com. 1928 Graybar Electric Co., Hammond. Ind. 
HERZOG. B. H., B.S.Chem.E. 1931 Apt 2, 5 Waltham St , Hammond. Ind. 
HOUSLEY, George L.. LL.B. 1929 5955 Hys]op Place, Hammond, Ind. 
LYNCH, Daniel D., LL.B. 1923 708-9 Lloyd Bldg., Hammond, Ind. 
MAHANK, Ben H., B.SJI.E. 1926 229 Ogden St , Hammond, Ind. 
' McELUGOTT. Maurice J.. A3 . 1926 Lever Bros. Co.. Box 68, Hammond, Ind. 
MEYER, Francis D., B.SJhar. 1929 Box 5, Hammond. Ind. 
MORRISON, James R.. B.C.S. 1934 6121 Hohman Ave.. Hammond. Ind. 
SEVALD. D. P.. 509 Hirsch Bids., Hammond, Ind. 
SWYGERT, Luther M., LL.B. 1927 305 Hirsch Bldg., Hammond, Ind. 
TRAVIS. WilUam L.. LL3 . 1927 803 Lloyd Bldg., Hammond, Ind. 
WALTERS, J. B., LL.B. 1925 5141 Hohman, Bm. 106, Hammond, Ind. 
YOUNG, Raymond B , LL.B. 1930 22 WilUam St, Hammond, Ind. 
HANNA DAVIS, Howard C, LL.B. 1908 Hanna, Ind. 
HAUBSTADT LYNN, Cletus L.. A.B. 1932 Haubstadt, Ind. 
ZILIAK, Kaymond G., Ph.B.Com. 1930 Hanbstadt, Ind. 
HOBAET GRESSER, Robert A,. Ph.B.Com. 192S Hobart, Ind. 
RUZEK. Oscar E.. E.E. 1920 Hobart, Ind. 
HUNTERTO^^'N YOUNG, Charles A.. M.S. 1934 HuntertowTl, Ind. 
HDUTINGTON FINK, Francis A., A.B. 1930 1414 Poplar St., Huntington, Ind. 
JIANOSKI, Paul A., A.B. 1934 1215 Ebwin St., Huntington, Ind. 
MARTIN, Joseph A.. B.S.Biol. 1912 1046 N. Cherry St., Huntineton, Ind. 
TORBORG, Martin P., A.B. 1932, LL-B. 1934 955 Cherry St., Huntington, Ind. 
YOUNG. Dr. Jacob P., B.S.B!ol. 1908 237 N. Jefferson St., Huntington, Ind. 
INDIANA HARBOR 
HASHLTON, P.aul T„ A.B. 1930 Goodyear Service, Inc., Indiana Harbor, Ind. 
SIULFLUR. Walter H., B.S.Chom.E. 1929 3521 Hemlock St, Indiana Harbor, Ind. 
INDIANAPOLIS ANDEDS, Lucius B.. E.E. 1910 350 N. Meridian St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
ASH. William J.. Ph.B.Joam. 1924 5124 Winthrop Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
BISCHOFP, George A., Ph.B.C. 1925 Chamber of Commerce Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. 
BLACKWELL, Thomas J., A.B. 1933 5246 N. Velavrare Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
BOEHNING, James W., B.C.S. 192S 738 S. Noble SL, Indianapolis, Ind. 
BOWEN, James D., B.C.S. 192G Apt. 3, 3233 Ruckle St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
BOYLE, Stanley C, B.S.E.E. 1926 116 W. 26th St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
BREZINSKI, Leon, B.S.Ch.E. 1927 2433 Central Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
BROKHAGE. Paul H., B.C.S. 1929 1645 N. Alabama St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
BURKERT, Arthur S., B.S.C.E. 1930 744 Terrace, Indianapolis, Ind. 
CARR. John F., B.C.S. 1934 4306 Park Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
CLANCY, Norbert A., Ph.B.C. 1925 2423 N. New Jersey St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
COLLINS, James D., B.C.S. 1925 2834 Ruckle St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
CORBETT. James W., Ph.B.C. 1924 5033 Washington Blvd., Indianapolis, Ind. 
COSGROVE, Harold J., LL.B. 1928 26 E. 14th, Indianapolis, Ind. 
DARLING, Robert H., B.S.Chem.E. 1932 1500 N. Delaware Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
DAUSUAN, Orson D., B.S.E.E. 1929 Indiana Bell Telephone Co., Indianapolis, Ind. 
DAVIS, Jno. A. A.B. 1928 37 K. Sherman Drive, Indianapolis, Ind. 
DEERY, Eon. James E., LL.B. 1910 1250 Consolidated Bids., Indianapolis, Ind. 
DONAHOE, AVilUam IL, E3L 1914 5321 Boulevard Place, Indianapolis, Ind. 
DUFFECY, Michael J.. A.B. 1927 2223 Central Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
FEENEY, Albert G., os. 1914, el. 1925 3902 Central Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
FESKE, Carl C, B.C.S. 1927 2310 N. Talbott, Indianapolis, Ind. 
FOX Raymond M , B.C.S. 1934 3942 N. Pennsylvania St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
FOX, William F., Litt B. 1920 Golden Hill, Indianapolis, Ind. 
GAVIN, Robert L., Ph.B.Com. 1927 446 N. Goodlet Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
GLASKA. John IL, B.S.E.B. 1928 2012 N. Delaware St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
GREMILLION, Bichat X., B.S.E.E. 1928 Indiana Bell Telephone Co., Indianapolis, Ind. 
HABING, W. B., B.C.S. 1931 2144 N. Alabama, Indianapolis, Ind. 
HARMON, Joseph P., Ph.B.C. 1925 
E. R. 7, Box 328, Indianapolis, Ind. 
HART, Thomas V.,A.B. 1929 Rm. 1233. 130 B. Washington St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
HOLLAND, William M., Ph.B.Com. 1927 920 E. 49th St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
HYTEN, Forrest C, SiLE. 1911 2726 N. Pennsylvania St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
ITTENBACH, Ralph G., el. 1930 2050 N. Alabama, Indianapolis, nd. 
JONES, Thomas J., A.M, 1904 S2S N. Rural St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
KEACH, Leroy J., LL.B. 190S 4311 Broadway, Indianapolis, Ind. 
KELLY'. William H., LL.B. 1919 554S Carrollton Ave, Indianapolis, Ind. 
KIBBY, Robert E., OS. 1929 1901 N. Meridian, Indianapolis, Ind. 
KLEISER, Paul J.. B.S.C.E. 1930 201 State House Anne.':, Indianapolis, Ind. 
KONOP, Kenneth J., A.B. 1929, LL.B. 1931 Indiana Bell Telephone Co., Indianapolis, led. 
KONOP, William H., A.B. 1928, LL.B. 1930 3321 Carrollton Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
KRIEG, William H., A.B. 1929 3702 N. Illinois, Rm. 202 Indianapolis, Ind. 
LEPPERT, Robert N„ A.B. 1932 4315 Central Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
LOEFFLER, Bernard T., B.S.E.E. 1928 3537 N. Pennsylvania St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
LOFTUS, John E., LL.B. 1927 449 Arsenal Ave.. Indianapolis, Ind. 
SIADDEN, Martin K., B.C.S. 1932 1436 N. Alabama St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
.MAHAFFEV. Frederick T., LL.B. 1917 850 Consolidated Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. 
ilAHAFFEY. Thomas J., B.C.S. 1933 5324 Washington Blvd., Indianapolis. Ind. 
3IAH0NEY, Elbert AV., A.B. 1926 3936 Central Ave.. Indianapolis, Ind. 
MALONEY. John J.. Ph.BJ"or.Com. 1931 24 S. Hawthorne Lane. Indianapolis, Ind. 
SIABTIN, Paul C, LittB. 1924 115 E. 21st St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
JIASON, Charles B., B.SJiE. 1926 SOS N. Graham St, Indianapolis. Ind. 
MCCARTHY. Francis P.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 819 W. Gray St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
MacDONALD, William S., B.SJLE. 1927 Indiana Bell Telephone Co., Indianapolis, Ind. 
MCNAMARA, Joseph P., LL.B. 1929 231 Wisconsin St, Indianapolis. Ind. 
McNULTY. Maurice D.. LL.B. 1926 Fidelity Trust Co., Indianapolis, Ind. 
McQUAID. James D., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1931 213 N. Tremont St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
MeSHANE. John J.. Ph.B. 1915 701 Fidelity Trust Bids., Indianapolis, Ind. 
MEEKER, Thomas Joseph, B.C.S. 1934 4531 Meridian St , Indianapolis, Ind. 
MOHLtUN. Robert J., LL.B. 192S c-o State House, Indianapolis, Ind. 
MOONEY. William J., LL.B. 1915 
P. O. Box 1616. Indianapolis, Ind. 
MOOTZ. Frank J. B.S.Ch.K 1927, M.S. 1928 1958 Carrollton Ave. Ph.D. 1930 Indianapolis, Ind. 
.MORGAN, John H., B.C.S. 1923 3224 N. New Jersey St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
MULREY. Maurice D., B.S.M.E. 1931 3161 N. Illinois St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
NOLL, Rancis J., A,B. 1931 4550 Guilford Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
O'CONNOR, William S.. A.B. 1929 1423 N. Pennsylvania St. Indianapolis, Ind. 
O'BARA, Robert E., Ph.B.Joum. 1920 3164 N. Illinois St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
PADLISSEN, Karl A., Min.B. 1924 2363 Alabama St.. Indianapolis, Ind. 
PERROT, Samuel W., LL.B. 1916 3422 AVinthrop Ave., Indianapolis. Ind. 
PFORTNER, Frederick W., A.B. 1928 2940 N. Delaware St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
PITSENBERGER, CLinde M., A.B. 1926 3127 Kenwood Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
QUINLAN, Joseph W., B.S.B.B. 1926 771 N. Bancroft St , Indianapolis, Ind. 
REDDINGTON, Michael B., A.B. 1926 216 Indiana Trust Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. 
RILEY. Charles C , Ph.B.Com. 1928 2450 N. New Jersey. Indianapolis, Ind. 
RINK, Robert M.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1924 4153 Central Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
ROCAP. John T., A.B. 1930 129 E. Market St, Rm. 917, Indianapolis, Ind. 
BOSS, Robert L., A.B. 1926 3143 Bellefontalne St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
RUCKELHAUS, Thomas F., Ph.B.Com. 192S 2835 Meridian St , Indianapolis, Ind. 
SCOTT. Harry E.. Ph.B.Joum. 1917 4521 Central Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
SEHL. Donald J.. A.B. 1927 418 E. 15th St, No. 48. Indianapolis, Ind. 
SEXTON. John T.. A.B. 1933 4444 Washington Blvd.. Indianapolis. Ind. 
SEXTON. Joseph F., A.B. 1925. LL.B. 1926 148 E. Market St . Indianapolis. Ind. 
SHEA. Arthur 0., Ph.B. 1922 256 N. Meridian, Indianapolis, Ind. 
SKELLEY. Paul L., B.S.BJL 1926 1224 N. Bwins St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
SMITH. Charles M., Pb.B.C. 1925 1409 Sturm Ave.. Indianapolis, Ind. 
SMITH. Joseph A., B.C.S. 1934 2218 N. Meridian St , Indianapolis, Ind. 
STUHLDREHER. Walter J., Pb.B.F.C. 1922 215 Circle Tower Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. 
WELCH, Lawrence J., C.B. 1917 23 W. Ohio St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
WELCH. Leo F.. os. 1912. el. 1925 23 W. Ohio St, Indianapolis, Ind. 
WINGERTER, Laurence A., B.S.E.E. 192S Indianapolis Railways 908 Traction Terminal Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. 
ZIETLOW. Frederick P.. B.SJajL 1933 548 Eastern Ave.. Indianapolis, Ind. 

ZniMERLY. Richard K., B.S.Arch.E. 1929 645 N. Beville Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 
JASPER STDRSr. Rndolph E., Pb.B.Com. 1930 416 W. Ninth St. Jasper, Ind. 
JEFPERSONVHiLE HANCOCK. Jr., Charles F„ B.S. 1931 131 W. Chestnut St, JefTersonville, Ind. 
KENDALLVILLE WASSELL. Georpe C. B.S. 1931 207 Rush St, Kcndallville, Ind. 
KEWANNA COSTELLO, Edward W., os. 1907. d. 1932 Kewanna. Ind. 
WARE, James M., Ph.G. 1913 Kewanna, Ind. 
KNOX REED, Herbert W.. B.S. 1924 Knox, Ind. 
KOKOMO GRACE. Leo J.. B.G.S. 1925 420 Huddle Drive, Kokomo, Ind. 
JOHNSON", John P., B.C.S. 1926 515 Forest Drive, Kokomo, Ind. 
JOHNSON, Karl F., A.B. 1929 1101 N. Washington St, Kokomo. Ind. 
REUSS, John L.. LittB. 1918 Kingston Products Co.. Kokomo, Ind. 
SCHRADER, Harry J.. S.M.E. 1909 T^lnnt & Union St, Kokomo. Ind. 
ZnniERER, Mark E., M.E. 1921 1131 N. Washington St, Kokomo, Ind. 
KOUTS BALD\VIN. John A., A.B. 1933 Kouts, Ind. 
LA P.\YETTE CROWE. Francis A.. B.C.S. 1929 
R. R. H, La Fayette. Ind. 

ELWARD, Allen H.. LL.B. 1916 Football Coach, Purdue University, La Fayette, Ind. 
FERGUSON. David E.. LL.B. 1932 903 Union St. La Fayette, Ind. 
KAJfP, Herman E.. el. 1926 1207 Wells St, La Fayette. Ind. 
KEATING, Jr.. Thomas J.. LL.B. 1923 1021 N. Seventh St. La Fayette. Ind. 
KIZEB. Noble E.. Ph.B.P.C. 1925 606 Lingle Ave., La Payette, Ind. 
McADAMS, Harry, os. 1901, el. 1926 634 N. Sixth St, La Fayette, Ind. 
JIURPHY. Francis J.. LL.B. 1920 315 Columbia St. La Fayette. Ind. 
NE\aLLE, Maurice A.. C.K 1899 715 Miami Ave.. La Fayette, Ind. 
RICKS, Michael T.. A.B. 1928 219 N. Fourth St. La Fayette. Ind. 
VAUGHAN. Charles L.. LL.B. 1914 703 La Payette Life BIdg.. La Fayette, Ind. 
VAUGHAN. Vincent D.. LL.B. 1917 703-7 La Fayette Life Bldg.. La Fayette. Ind. 
VAUGHAN. William M.. os. 190S. el. 1921 639 Alabama St, La Fayette. Ind. 
LAKEVILLE 

BREEN. Francis J.. A.B. 1923 
R. R. 1. Lakeville. Ind. 
LA PORTE 

ABRAMS. Howard T., A.B. 1930 301 Maple. La Porte. Ind. 
BUNCE. F. C.. Ph.B.C. 1925 614 Ridge St. La Porte. Ind. 
CONBOY. Francis J.. LL.B. 1904 810 Lincoln Way, La Porto, Ind. 
DUKE, Norman R, A.B. 1934 304 Niles St. La Porte. Ind. 
PITZSISIMONS. Laurence P.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 613 Ridge St, La Porto, Ind. 
LAHEY. Michael J., A.B. 1933 1007 Madison St. La Porte. Ind. 
LAHEY. William P.. B.S. 1931 1003 Harrison St, La Porte, Ind. 
PALMER. Roy W., Ph.B.Com. 1928 609 Rose St. La Porte. Ind. 
RODLE, Arthur L.. LL.B. 1930 1709 Indiana Ave.. La Porte. Ind, 
SHERIFF. John R.. A.B. 1925 501 Detroit St, La Porte. Ind. 
SMTH. Alban M.. A.B. 1927. LL.B. 1929 Citizens Bank Bldg.. La Porte. Ind. 
SMTH. Leonard, os. 190S. el. 1931 1912 Monroe St.. La Porte. Ind. 
TAYLOR. Arthur G.. os. 1918. el. 1929 1507 Indiana Ave., La Porte. Ind. 
LAWRENCEBURG HEGER. Ralph F.. Ph.B.C. 1925 25 Center St.. Lawrenceburg. Ind. 
LOGANSPORT BOTT. Paul N.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1931 1013 North St. Logansport. Ind. 
DIGAN. Jjimes E., B.C.S. 1929 85 Market St, Logansport. Ind. 
FANSLER, JHchacl. os. 1905. el. 1916 City Nat'l Bank Bldg., Logansport, Ind. 
HENDRICKS. Leo F.. B.C.S. 1934 c-o Hendricks Printing Co.. Logansport. Ind. 
MALAY. Edward J.. A.B. 1925 715 Spencer St.. Logansport. Ind. 
MEDLAND. Charles J.. BArch. 1933 College Hill. Logansport, Ind. 
O'CONNOR. Xawrence A.. LL.B. 1930 619 W. Market St. Logansport Ind. 
TUBERTY. Harold J.. LL-B. 1931 608 12th St., Logansport, Ind. 
MADISON HERTZ, William W., B.C.S. 1932 411 W. Third St, Madison. Ind. 
HUNGER. Edward G.. Ph.B.C. 1924 213 Jefferson St., Madison, Ind. 
MARION KILEY, Philip J., os. 1919. el. 1931 606 W. Fourth St, Marion, Ind. 
MARTIN, Paul R., OS. 1009, el. 1913 38th & Gallatin, Marion, Ind. 
SHANAHAN, Michael P., B.S.Ch.E. 1930 363 Grant St., Marion, Ind. 
WILLIAMS, Robert E., S.Comm. 1921 210 Iroquois Block, Marion, Ind. 
MICHIGAN CITY BURNS, ^\^lliam P., LittB. 1896 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City. Ind. 
FEDDER. Francis G.. LL.B. 1931 1015 Wabash. Michigan City. Ind. 
GLASSCOTT. Lorenzo A., LL.B. 1918 Citizens Bank Bldg.. Michigan City, Ind. 
GLASSCOTT. Robert E.. LL.B. 1924 223 W. Tenth St. Michigan City, Ind. 
KELLEY. Jr., John A., E.E. 1925 213 Beldcn St, Michigan City, Ind. 
KENEFICK, Matthew J., Ph.B. 1907 Box 259, Michigan City, Ind. 
MARGRAF. Arthur J.. B.S.Phar. 1931 710 E. Tenth St, Michigan City. Ind. 
OEHM. Hoswell P., A.B. 1925 
R. F. D. No. 2, Michigan City, Ind. 

OTT, Philip W., B.S. 1934 422 Washington St, Michigan City, Ind. 
PARENT. Walter E., LL.B. 1930 1301 Tennessee St, Uichigan Citsr. Ind. 
QUARTUCH. Joseph E.. B.C.S. 1934 801 W. Ninth St . Michigan City. Ind. 
STOREN. Mark. LL.B. 1922 First Nat'l Bank Bldg.. Michigan City, Ind. 
WIENER. Arnold A.. A.B. 1932 413 E. Seventh St. Michigan City, Ind. 
inSHAWAKA 

ALEXANDER, Cecil, A.B. 1928 403 N. Cedar, Mishawaka, Ind. 
ABNDT. Russell H., LL.B. 1925 1002 W. Grove St, Mishawaka, Ind. 
BENNETT. Harold L.. B.C.S. 1931 501 S. Smith St. Mishawaka, Ind. 
BRUBAKER. Gerald C. Arch.K 1922 919 Washington Ave., Mishawaka, Ind. 
BUBDICK. Gilfred A.. P.E. 1934 219 N. Wenger St, Mishawaka, Did. 
CARWIN, James E.. BC.S. 1932 412 E. Third St. Mishawaka. Ind. 
CHBISTIANSON. Carl G.. A.B. 1931 617 Lincoln Way West. Mishawaka. Ind. 
CLARK. Albert G., B.C.S. 1934 522 Calhoun St. Mishawaka. Ind. 
COHEN. Herman. A.B. 1930 901 W. Mishawaka Ave., Mishawaka, Ind. 
CROFOOT, Alton, B.C.S. 1927 
E. R. No. 1, Mishawaka, Ind. 

DAVIS, Charles, LL.B. 1927 8 Engledrum Bldg., Mishawaka, Ind. 
DeCOOK. Raymond L.. B.SJ'hys.Ed. 1932 214 W. Tenth St, Mishawaka. Ind. 
DOYLE. Albert L.. LL.B. 1927 City Judge. Mishawaka. Ind. 
FEIG. Ralph S.. LL.B. 1907 Mishawaka "Trust Bldg.. Mishawaka. Ind. 
FREED. Vernon J.. LL.B. 1931 619 S. Union, Mishawaka, Ind. 
FUTTER. Clarence H.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1931 501 E. Fourth St, Mishawaka. Ind. 
GARRIGAN. M P., A.B. 1931 618 Fourth St, Mishawaka, Ind. 
HOLDEMAN. Harold W.. B.C.S. 1924 233 E. Grove St. Mishawaka. Ind. 
KRONEWITTEK. Ronald A., B.S3I.E. 1933 724 E. Fourth St, Mishawaka, Ind. 
LaCAVA, Peter M., LL.B. 1926 Box 197, Mishawaka, Ind. 
LANG, Raymond J.. C.E. 1924 3320 Lincoln Way East. Mishawaka. Ind. 
LENHARD, Alden E.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 214 W. Third St, Mishawaka, Ind. 
LEYES, Alban A., B.C.S. 1931 112 W. Eighth St, Mishawaka, Ind. 
SL4J0R. Ambrose. OS. 1886 732 Lincoln Way East, Mishawaka. Ind. 
McKINLEY. Frank A.. A.B. 1927 222 W. Broadway. Mishawaka. Ind. 
MOORE. Carl C. A.B. 1930 115 W. Marion. Mishawaka. Ind. 
OHNEMUS, John C. A.B. 1927 822 Lincoln Way West, Mishawaka, Ind. 
O'NEILL. Hon. William P.. LL.B. 1906 S0$ Mishawaka Ave., Mishawaka. Ind. 
"SEBKINS, John N.. B.C.S. 1929 129 Towel Ave., Mishawaka, Ind. 
RAAB, John M.. LL.B. 1918 202^ N. Main St . Mishawaka. Ind. 
RENSBERGER. R. S., B.C.SJor.Com. 1934 211 E Lawrence St . Mishawaka. Ind. 
RODGERS. Donald C. B.S. Arch.E. 1932 205 Miami Club Drive. Mishawaka. Ind. 
SCHINDLGR, John W.. LL.B. 1909 112 liincoln Way East, Mishawaka, Ind. 
THORNTON, Howard, B.C.S. 1931 130 E. Mishawaka Ave., Klishawaka, Ind. 
TRAVIS, Allen R., LUB. 1926 124 lincoln 'Way East, Mishawaka, Ind. 
VAN RIE, Dr. Leo P., Com. 1905 116 S. West St., Mishawaka, Ind. 
VAN TILBURY. Leo, LL.B. 1924 202 N. Main St., Mishawalca, Ind. 
MOKTGOMERY HEFFEKNAN, Bernard D., LL.B. 1918 Montsomery. Ind. 
MONTICELLO OXONNELL, •William K, B.S. 1SS7 Monticello National Bank, Monticello, Ind. 
MONTPELIER EERLIN. John D., Ph.B.Com. 1932 Green & Main, Montpelier, Ind. 
MULBERRY CLARK. Robert L.. A.B. 1934 Box 97, Mnlberry, Ind. 
MUNCIE CANNON. Thomas A,, LL.B. 1933 601 W. Seventh St., Mnnde, Ind. 
CASEY. Harold J., A.B. 1927 428 E. diaries St., Muncie, Ind. 
HALLIGAN, James W., LL.B. 1932 c-o P. H. Halliean, Pennsylvania R. R. Co., Mnncie, Ind. 
WATSON, Frederick E., LL.B. 1925 601 W. Main St, Muncie. Ind. 
NEW ALBANY MARGUET. Charles P., B.S.M.E. 1926 1840 Ekin Ave., New Albany, Ind. 
SCHWABTZEL, C. J.. B.C.S. 1934 1117 E. Sprinsr, New Albany, Ind. 
NEW CARLISLE SANDMEIER. L K, B.SJ^ch. 1934 New Carlisle, Ind. 
TAPPAN, Roe S., S.M.B. 1919 New Carlisle, Ind. 
NEWCASTLE KENNEDY. Robert W.. B.C.S. 1932 422 S. 12th St., Newcastle, Ind. 
TRAINOR. Felix R.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 337 N. Main St.. Newcastle. Ind. 
NORTH LIBERTY ( FETZEB, John N.. A.B. 1932 North Liberty, Ind. 
FOOTE, Cyrus L., B.S.E.E. 1934 
B. R. 1, North Liberty, Ind. 
NOTRE DAME ACKERMAN Francis X., M.S. 1904 Main Bide-, Notre Dame, Ind. 
-APODACA, Joseph L.. A.B. 1930 Box 13, Notre Dame, Ind. 
-ARMSTRONG, James E.. A.B. 1925 Alumni Secretary, Notre Dame. Ind. 
B./U:RY. Thomas, .A.B. 1925 Publicity Dept.. Notre Dame, Ind. 
BOLAND, Joseph M., Ph.B.Com. 1927 Athletic Ofiice, Notre Dsme, Ind. 
BOYLE, .Andrew J., B.S. 1928, Ph.D. 1931 St. Edward's Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
BOYLE, James J., A.B. 1933 Notre Dame, Ind. 
BBENN.AN. John S.. Ph.B.Joum. 1924 Notre Dame, Ind. 
BYRNE, Paul, Ph.B. 1913 Sorin Hall. Notre Dame, Ind. 
CAHILL, M. Robert. Ph.BJor.Com. 1934 Athletic Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 
CAP-ARO, Jose -A., C.E. 'OS, E.E.M.C.E. '09. M.SJIath. '11, Ph.D. '12 Notre Dame, Ind. 
CLEARY, Edward P., Litt-B. 1909, LL.B. 1913 Notre Dame, Ind. 
COOSEES, Edward -A.. B.S.E.R 1931, M.S. 1933 Box 85, Notre Dame, Ind. 
COONEY, John M.. Ph.D. 1917 Dept. of Journalism. Notre Dame. Ind. 
D.ANEHY. James P.. B.S. 1933, M.S. 1934 Chemistry Department, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Dc LANDEBO, Pedro -A., C.E. 1911 Notre Dame, Ind. 
DEVORE. HuBh J.. A.B. 1934 Notre Dame, Indiana 
DOOLEY. •»«lliam H.. -AB. 1926 Alumni Office. Notre Dame. Ind. 
EASLEY. Donald J., Ph.B.For.Com. 1921 Accounting Office, Notre Dame. Ind. 
EL-.ARAJ. -Aziz S.. A.B. 1932, M.A. 1933 Notre Dame, Ind. 
FINNERAN, P. X., OS. 1917 Notre Dame. Ind. 
FENLON, Paul, LL.B. 1919. -A.M. 1922 Notre Dame. Ind. 
FLYNN. Francis T., MJ\.. 1931 Box 111. Notre Dame. Ind. 
HALEY. J. Arthur. B.C.S. 1926 Athletic Office. Notre Dame. Ind. 
HASLEY. Louis L.. .A.B. 1930. M..A-. 1931 Box 82, Notre Dame, Ind. 
HULL, Daniel, M.S. 1922 Nob-e Dame, Ind. 
JONES, Herbert E., A.B. 1927 Athletic Office. Notre Dame. Ind. 
EACZSIARGK. R. M.. M.S. '13. Ph.C. '13 Ph.D. '15 Notre Dame, Ind. 
LAYDEN, Elmer P., LL.B. 1925 Athletic Director. Notre Dame, Ind. 
MADDEN. Thomas P.. .A.B. 1927" Notre Dame. Ind. 
SIANION. Clarence E.. J.D. 1922 Notre Dame, Ind. 
MURRAY. Edward J., A.B. 1931 Comptroller's Office, Notre Dome, Ind. 
McLELLAN. Harry J., M.E. 1921 c-o Machine Shops, Notre Dame, Ind. 
PAFF, Gcoree H., B.S. 1927 Notre Dame, Ind-
PETRTTZ, Joseph S., A.B. 1932 Publicity Dept.. Notre Dame. Ind. 
PLUNKETT. Donald J., B.S. 1929 Notre Dame. Ind. 
BEYNIERS. James A.. B.S. 1930, M.S. 1931 Notre Dame, Ind. 
RIORD.AN. Rob't B.. Ph.B.Journ. '24. MJL '33 Notre Dame. Ind. 
ROETHELE. Bernard J.. B.C.SJor.Com. 1932 Publications Office, Notre Dame. Ind. 
SCHUBMEHL, Raymond J., M.E. '21, M.S. "22 Notre Dame, Ind. 
SEXTON, W. Lawrence, A.B. 1933 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
SOWA, Frank J., B.S. '30, M.S. '31, PhJ). '33 Box 147, Notre Dame, Ind. 
STEGMAN, Henry P., Ph.B.ror.Com. 1932 Notre Dame. Ind; 
TOUSSAINT, Joseph A., B.S.Chem.E. '32, Chemistry HalU M.S. '33 Notre Dame, Ind. 
WENZKE, Herman H., M.S. 1922, Ph.D. 1924 Notre Dame, Ind. 
\VHITMAN, John -A., A.B. '25, MJL '27, Notre Dame, Ind. J.D. '30 
WITHEY, James A., A.B. 1926, -A.M. 1927 Notre Dame, Ind. 
YOUNG. Eugene J.. LL.B. 1927 Athletic Dept., Notre Dame. Ind. 
PENNVILLE 
BROWN, Francis W., A.B. 1931. LL.B. 1933 Pennville. Ind. 
PERU BERGMAN. Alfred S., os. 1914. el. 1921 128 W. Main St., Peru, Ind. 
FRIES, Alfred P., C.B. 1916 Peru Foundry Co., Peru, Ind. 
LANDGRAVE. George R.. LL.B. 1932 15 W. Spring St., Peru, Ind. 
RADEUACHER, Theodore C, B.S. 1919 Peru Foundry Co., Peru, Ind. 
PINE VILLAGE PIERCE, John H., E.E. 1924 Pine Village, Ind. 
PLYMOUTH GIBSON. David" N.. .A.B. 1928 814 W. Adams St., Plymouth. Ind. 
KIZER. Marshall F.. LL.B. 1930 408 E. Washington. Plymouth. Ind. 
POSEYVILLE REISING. Warner -A.. B.C.S. 1931 Poseyville, Ind. 
PRINCETON ZILIAK. Charles -A.. A.B. 1932 625 S. Main St., Princeton, Ind. 
RAUB KEEFE, Emmett G., S.M.E. 1914, S.E.E. 1916 Raub, Ind. 
RICHMOND HARRINGTON, John R., LL.B. 1929 63 S. 13th St, Richmond. Ind. 
JAY. James G.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1927 721 S. 15th St, Richmond, Ind. 
KELLEY, Jr.. William H., LL.B. 191S Rm. 205, Second Nat'I Bank BIdg., Richmond. Ind. 
BIONARCH, Henry L.. LittB. 1893 Glen View, Richmond, Ind. 
QUIGLEY. Charles M., B.S.Phar. 1932 103 S. Fourth St, Richmond, Ind. 
RIDGEVILLB O'BRIEN, Russell T., B.S.B.E. 1929 
R. R. 4, Ridgeville, Ind. 
ROLUNG PRAIRIE PETERSON, P. S., MJl. 1931 Rolling Prairie, Ind. 
ROMNEY DeVAULT, Howard R., B.C.S.For.Com. 1932 Romney, Ind. 
RDSHVILLB KIRK, -Arthur T., B.SM.B. 1930 
R. R. No. 6, Eoshville, Ind. 
SAN PIERRE DOLEZAL, Robert J., B.C.S. 1926 San Pierre, Ind. 
SOUTH BEND ABRAMS, Alfred E., C.E. 1921 113 W. Monroe Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
AHEARN, Francis T.. A.B. 1927 News-'Iimes. South Bend. Ind. 
ALLARD, Romeo P.. B.S.Chem.E. '31, S t Joseph's Hospital, M.S. '32, Ph.D. '34 South Bend, Ind. 
ALTMAN. Nathan D., B.S.E.E. 1932 735 W. Jefferson, South Bend, Ind. 
ANDERSON. John W., B.S.E.E. 1931 749 33rd St. South Bend. Ind. 
-APPLEGATE, Sam, Ph.G. 1906 309 W. Morton. South Bend, Ind. 
-ARBON, WUliam F.. Fh.B.Com. 192S Apt 3. 1004 E. Madison St, South Bend, Ind. 

SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAJffi ALUMNUS 
ASH, James D., A.B. 1933 114 E. Navarre St.. South Bend. Ind. 
AUSTIN, Terrill E.. A.B. 1934 1231 Portage Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
BACHTEL, Vernon O.. A.B. 1932 1118 E. Milton St.. South Bend. Ind. 
BAER, Frederick K.. A.B. 1933 1902 S. Calalpa St , South Bend. Ind. 
BAILEY. Robert S., Ph.B.For.Com. 1929 618 Blaine Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
BAKER. William R., os. 1918 424 N. Main St., South Bend. Ind. 
BALDINGER, L. H.. M.S. 1931, Ph.D. 1933 614 N. St. Peter St, South Bend, Ind 
BANNON, John M. E.E. 1912 1092 Woodward Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
BARBER, Lawrence W., A.B. 1933 3210 S. Michigan St , South Bend, Ind. 
BARTHOLOSIEW, Paul C, A.B. '29, M.A. '31 East Angella Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
BAHMGABTNER, Charles L., Ph.B.C. 1925 522 Leiand Ave.. South Bend, Ind. 
BEAMER, George N., LI,.B. 1929 229 E. Broadway, South Bend, Ind. 
BEAN, Joseph W., B.S.E.E. 1933 814 N. Notre Dame Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
BECELER, Donald C, B.C.SJor.Com. 1932 806 Wayne St, South Bend, Ind. 
BENITZ, William L., Mja.K '13 1341 E. Wayne St, South Bend. Ind. 
BERGAX, John, os. 1931 828 E. Coltax Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
BERGAN, William N., 03. 1S9G. el. 1927 828 E. Colfax Ave., South Bend, Ind. ­
BERNER. Leo S., Ph.B.Joum. 1917 City Hall, South Bend, Ind. 
BERNER, Sebastian T., Ph.B.Com. 1927 1230 E. Victoria St., South Bend, Ind. 
BERTEUNG, Dr. John B., B. "SO, M.S. '84. 228 W. Colta-x Ave., A.M. '89 South Bend. Ind. 
BOCSKEI, Stephen C, B.S. 1929. M.S. 1930 1130 E. Chalfant St, South Bend. Ind. 
BOEHSI. Paul F.. A.B. 1933 439 Sunnyside Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
BOGNAR, John J., B.C.S. 1932 730 W. Jefferson St , South Bend, Ind. 
BOLAND, James I., os. 1918. el. 1923 534 S t Louis Blvd.. South Bend. Ind. 
BONDI, August L.. A.B. 1930 644 E. Monroe, South Bend, Ind. 
BONDUBANT, Robert E., LL.B: 1934 312 Parkovash, South Bend, Ind. 
BRANDON, Lucas H.. B.C.S. 1931 1044 Lincoln Way West, South Bend, Ind. 
BRAHNSDORF, William H., Ph.B.C. 1925 326 N. Eddy St, South Bend, Ind. 
BBENNAN, Edward R., A.B. 1931 1021 St Vincent St, South Bend, Ind. 
BRUCKER, Robert A., B.C.S.Por.Com.' 1933 123 E Bowman Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
BRUGGNEB, Louis V., Ph.B.Joum. 1923 129 W. Jefferson St, South Bend, Ind. 
BRYAN, George W., B.C.S.ror.Com. 1933 General Delivery, South Bend, Ind 
BUCKLEY. Louis F., A.B. 1928, M.A. 1930 718 E. Corby Blvd., South Bend. Ind. 
BUECHNER. Dr. F. W.. B.S. 1923 1861 N. Adams St, South Bend, Ind. 
BUTLER, Paul M., LL.B. 1927 802-10 I. O. O. F. Bldg., South Bend. Ind. 
CAIN, Giles L.. os. 1921. el. 1925 409 N. Michigan St, South Bend, Ind. 
CAMPBELL, David L., MJL 1929 1S47 N. Adams St, South Bend, Ind. 
CASIFBELL, Wilbur E., M.A. 1933 1222 S. Rush St , South Bend, Ind. 
CANNON, William M., A.B. 1933 
N. Huey St , South Bend, Ind. 

CARR, Edward P., A.B. 1934 409 W. Jefferson St, South Bend. Ind. 
CARRICO, James A.. A.B. 1932. M.A. 1934 
R. E. 2. Sample St Road, South Bend, Ind. 

CASASANTA, Joseph J., BJlIusic 1923 1309 E. Cedar. South Bend. Ind. 
CASE, Mardell E., B.C.S. 1933 220 Tonti Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
CASHJIAN, Benjamin J., B.C.S. 1933 603 N. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
CASHMAN, Charles D., B,S.Min. 1934 505 N. Lafayette Blvd.. South Bend. Ind. 
CERNEY. William J.. Ph.B.Com. 1925 Calvert St.. South Bend, Ind. 
CERIU, William T., B.S.ArchE. 1932 802iS N. 27th St, South Bend, Ind. 
CHAPLEAU, Louis C, LL.B. 1930 Union Trust Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
CHAPLEAU, Richard J.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1934 526 Leiand Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
CHBEIST, Louis R.. B.Arch. 1933 520 Blaine Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
CLARK, Daniel A., B.C.S. 1931 1016 W. Washington St, South Bend. Ind. 
CLEMENTS, Ifenefce R., S.M.E. 1920 1243 Vassar Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
CLEJIENTS, Walter L., A.B. 1914. A.M. 1915 646 Associates Bldg., South Bend. Ind. 
COGAN. Joseph E.. B.S.M.E. 1930 110 S. Taylor St . South Bend. Ind. 
COJIPTON, Carl B., A.B. 1929 1314 E. Ewing Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
CONBOY, John W„ A.B. 1928 743 Portage Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
CONNELL, John F., Arch.E. 1923 1219 Hillcrcst Road. South Bend, Ind. 
COOK, Leo L.. LL.B. 1918 412 I. O. O. F. Bldg.. South Bend. Ind. 
COQUILLARD, Ale-xis C. os. 1903. el. 1930 70S N. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
COTY, Gilbert J., Ph.BJ.C. 1925 835 E. Cedar St, South Bend. Ind. 
COUGHLIN, Francis E.. LL.B. 1921 519 E. Corby, South Bend. Ind. 
COYNE. William J.. A.B. 1927, LL.B. 1929 501 W. Washington St , South Bend. Ind. 
CROWE. John B.. A.B. 1933 1522 E. Colfax Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
CROWLEY. J. J. Ph.B.Com. 1931 501 W. Washington. South Bend. Ind. 
CURRY, Michael J., Ph.B.Com. 1926 Commercial Dept, Studebaker Corporation, Administration Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
DALRYMPLE, David W., A.B. 1934 1612 Marietta St, South Bend, Ind. 
DcFREES, Henry E.. B.C.S. 1934 2805 Mishawaka Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
DcGROOTE. Charles W.. A.B. 1928 1017 E. Madison St. South Bend. Ind. 
DENOFF, Max H., B.C.S.For.Com. 1934 2930 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
DeVOSS, Henry M., B.CS. 1933 1320 Western Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
DcWILDE, John B., B.C.S. 1934 44415 E. LaSalle Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
DeWITT, Charles E., B.C.S. 1930 614 Gladstone St, South Bend, Ind. 
DICKEY. Jesse C, A.B. 1933 S19 E. Donald St, South Bend, Ind. 
DIEDRICH. Arthur J., E.E. 1923 809 23rd St, South Bend. Ind. 
DITTOE, Francis E.. A.B. 1931, LL.B. 1933 661 Associate Bldgl, South Bend, Ind. 
DONAHUE, Joseph P., os. 1909 904 E. Jefferson Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
DONAHUE, Michael A.. 1893 644 N. Walnut St, South Bend. Ind. 
DONOVAN, Francis J., B.C.S. 1928 1902 £. Madison Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
DOOHTTLE, Wayne L., A.B. 1933 1059 Woodward Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
DORAN, M. Edward. LLB. 1920 407 Union Trust Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
DOWNEY, Russel H. Ph.B.Joum. 1916 1704 E. Jefferson Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
DUAVES. Harry W., B.C.S. 1930 818 E. Miner St, South Bend, Ind. 
DRESSEL, Fred B., LL.B. 1922 902 E. Washington, South Bend, Ind. 
DURBIN, Kenneth J., LL.B. 1931 713 N. Notre Dame Ave.. South Bend. Ind, 
DUTRIEUX. Charles P., os. 1914 412 W. Washington Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
EDWARDS,. Howard, S.E.B. 1909 Studebaker Corporation, South Bend, Ind. 
ENGELS. Norbcrt A., A.B. 1926, M.A. 1923 122 E. Angella Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
FAGAN, Vincent F., BJVrch. 1920 440 N. Sunnyside, South Bend, Ind. 
FARABAUGH, Gallitzin A.. A.B. '04. LL.B.'07 301-09 Union Trust Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
PARAGE, George. LL.B. 1926 717 B. Cedar St, South Bend. Ind. 
FARRINGTON, Francis S., LL.B. 1920 
R. R. 5, Box 615, South Bend. Ind. 

PEFERMAN, David M., A.B. 1934 I90S Miami St, South Bend, Ind. 
FEINGOLD, Joseph L., LL.B. 1925 737 Prairie Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
FEIWELL, Samuel, LL.B. 1917 403 Citizens Bank Btdg.. South Bend. Ind. 
FELDMAN, Morris D., LL.B. 1925 1601 Marquette Blvd.. South Bend, Ind. 
FISCHER, Heniy J., A.B. 1934 501 N. Eddy St, South Bend, Ind. 
FITZGERALD, L. J.. Grad.Phar. 1923 1701 Lincoln Way West, South Bend. Ind. 
FITZPATRICK, John D., B.S.Ch.E. 1933 814 N. Notre Dame Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
FLESHNG, Michael E., LL.B. 1923 922 College St , South Bend, Ind. 
FOLEY, Allen M., Ph.B.Com. 1926 LL.B. 1934 1523 E. Madison St, South Bend. Ind. 
FORSTER, Dr Herbert K, B.S. 1920 215 N, Lafayette St, South Bend. Ind. 
FORTIER, Willard C , B.C.S. 1929 414 W. Washington St, South Bend, Ind. 
FRANTZ. Albert T., LL.B. 1929 1238 E. Chalfant South Bend. Ind. 
FREDERICKSON, Edwin. LL.B. 1920 233 N. Lafayette Blvd.. South Bend, Ind. 
FRICKE, Lewis J., LL.B. 1924 206 LaPorte Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
FRIEDMAN, Garchin, LL.B. 1931 520 S. Scott St, South Bend, Ind. 
FRITCH, Louis C, os. 1919, el. 1931 
R. F. D. No. 5, South Bend, Ind. 

FUREY, William J., Ph.B.Com. 1923 1426 B Madison St , South Bend, Ind. 
GIBBONS, John W., A.B. 1930 South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Ind. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
GILBERT, Jacob H.. SpecLaw 192S 330 S. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind. 
GINZ, John M., Ph.B.Coni. 1929 South Ironwood Road, South Bend, Ind. 
GLUECKERT. Charles J., LL.B. 1925 721 E. Madison St, South Bend, Ind. 
GLUECKERT, R. Frederick. M.E. 1922 1804 Lincoln Way West. South Bend, Ind. 
GOEPFRICH. George A.. B.SJiI.E. 1933 446 LaPorte Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
GOEPFRICH. Rudolph A.. B.S.M.E. 1926 1109 Cleveland Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
COOLEY. Darold F.. Areh.E. 1924 846 Marietta St.. South Bend. Ind. 
GOEACZEWSKI. T. C. B.S. 19S1 3107 Western Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
GRAKT, Donald C. os. 1921 221 Tonti Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
GRANT, Robert A.. A.B. 1928, LL.B. 1930 510 S. Main St., South Bend. Ind. 
GROSSSIAN, Jules, AB. 1929. LL.B. 1932 207 S. Taylor St., South Bend, Ind. 
GUENDLING. John E.. el. 1920 825 2Gth St., South Bend, Ind. 
HAFRON, Charles P.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1933 2209 S. Dorothy St.. South Bend. Ind. 
HAGERTY. Mansiel. LL.B, 1926 1241 Cedar St.. South Bend. Ind. 
HALPEEIN, Jacob. B.S. 1928 734^ W. Jefferson Blvd.. South Bend. Ind. 
HALPIK, Theodore S.. Ph.B.Com. 1932 209 S. Taylor St . South Bend. Ind. 
HANS. Alvin P.. LI,.B. 1928 1014 Portage Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
HARBAUGH. Mel>-in D„ JLA. 1934 
K. R. 5. South Bend. Ind. 
HARBAUGH, Noble P.. B.S.E.E. '32. M.S. '33 303 S. Dbde Way. South Bend. lad. 
HARDING. Clarence W., Ph.B.C. 1925 922 E. Indiana Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
HAR»ION, Louis V.. LL.B. 1919 318 Tonti Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
HARRIS. Clarence D.. B.Cm.S.F.C. 1924 2617 Mishan-aka Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
BARTZER. Norman J.. Ph.B.Com. 1929. 417 I. O. O. F. Bide L.L.B. 1931 South Bend, Ind. 
HAZEN, L. Forrest B.C.S. 1932 1203 Tecumsdi Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
HEMPHLING, Joseph J.. Ph.B.Com. 1926. 
I. O. O. F. BldK.. J.D. 1929 South Bend. Ind. 
HENNION, Georsc F.. B.S.Chcm.E. 1932. 1115 W. Oak St. M.S. 1933 South Bend, Ind. 
HERBERT, Edward C, Ph.BJoum. 1922 301 N. Sunnyside Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
BERING, Frank E.. LittB. 189S. LL.B. 1902 301-15 Dean BIdB.. South Bend. Ind. 
HERMAN, John L.. LL.B. 1891 115 Dean Bide.. South Bend. Ind. 
HESS. Loren J.. A.B. 1933 708 N. S t Joseph St. South Bend. Ind. 
HICEEY. Thomas, el. 1932 1004 E. S t Vincent South Bend, Ind. 
HIKES, James F.. Ph.B. 1909 305 Peashway. South Bend. Ind. 
HINTON, Henry D.. Ph.D. 1930 1104 Woodward Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
HINTZ, •nrilliam G.. Ph.G. 1912 830 Park Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
HISS. Frank J., M.E. 1916 615 Portage Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
HODGES. Gerard B.. B.SJI.E. 1932 1316 Marquette Blvd.. South Bend. Ind. 
HOGAN. Joseph A.. LL.B. 1925 648 Associates Bldg., South Bend. Ind. 
HOLLAND. Gerald J., A.B. 1925 601 W. Washington St. South Bend. Ind. 
HOSINSKI. Aloysius W.. os. 1915. el. 1926 Associates BIdg.. South Bend. Ind. 
HOULIHAN, Patrick J., LL.B. 1S92 216 J. M. S. Bide.. South Bend. Ind. 
HOWARD. Charles P.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1934 825 E. Washington St. South Bend, Ind. 
HOYER, Raymond A.. M.A. 1924 1001 E. Corby St.. South Bend. Ind. 
HUGUENARD. Aaron H.. LL.B. 1922 1411 E. LaSalle St. South Bend. Ind. 
HUNTER. Edwin W.. Ph.B. 1919 1109 21st St. South Bend. Ind. 
HUKWICH. Ir\-inB A.. LL.B. 1926 332 S. Taylor St , South Bend, Ind. 
HUTH, Edward A.. M.A. 1923 1014 E. Cedar St. South Bend, Ind. 
JACKSON, John W. A.B. 1934 1810 Leer St. South Bend. Ind. 
JACKSON. Louis E.. LL.B. 1934 1810 Leer St . South Bend. Ind. 
JACKSON. Paul F.. LL.B. 1926 Suite 715-16, New Odd Fellows Bldg.. South Bend. Ind. 
JANESHESKI, Cosare S.. B.S.Ph.vs.Ed. 1930 321 W. Angela Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
JANOWSKI. Vem. Ph.G. 1912. Ph.C. 1913 1017 S t Vincent St . South Bend. Ind. 
JELLISON, Floyd O., LL.B. 1913 302 Sherland BIdg., South Bend, Ind. 
JENNINGS, Harold L.. B.C.S. 1930 426 Dixie Highway. South Bend. Ind. 
JEWELL. Everett A.. B.S.Arch. 1929 
B. F. D. No. S, South Bend. Ind. 
JOHNSON, H. aay. A.B. 1932. LL.B. 1934 
I. O. O. F. Bids.. South Bend. Ind. 
JONES, G. Francis, AJ . 1929 310 Lamonte Terrace. South Bend. Ind. 
JONES. Vitus G. LittB. 1902. LL.B. 1903 802-10 1. O. O. F, Bldg.. South Bend. Ind. 
JUDIE. James A.. LL.B. 1887 1515 E. Jefferson Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
JUDIE, Jr.. James A. LL.B. 1924 732 W. Washington Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
KAZMIEBCZAK. B. J.. B.S.Phar. 1934 454 Phillipa St , South Bend, Ind. 
KEATING. James E., A.B. 1929. LL.B. 1931 648 Associates BIdg., South Bend. Ind. 
KEEGAN, Morton B.. A.B. 1931 422 W. LaSalle St, South Bend. Ind. 
KEISER. Raymond G., B.C.S. 1927 1005 S. 27th St. South Bend. Ind. 
KELLEY, Robert K.. B.C.S. 1934 320 E. Howard St. South Bend. Ind. 
KELLY. Daniel J., Ph.B.Com. 1926 219 S. Scott St. South Bend. Ind. 
KELLY. Prank, os. 1921. el. 1927 629 Harrison Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
KEMPS. Carl P.. B.S3I.E. 1927 220 K Dayton St , South Bend, Ind. 
KIELY, Harold J, B.S.E.E. 1926 501 W. Washington Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
EINERK, Louis. LL.B. 1924 605 N. St Peter St, South Bend, Ind. 
KIRBY, Byron C , LittB. 1925. M.A. 1927. 920 Sherman Ave.. Ph.D. 1932 South Bend. Ind. 
KITKOWSH, Zigmund H., B.S.Phar. 1933 1017 E. St Vincent St, South Bend, Ind. 
KLINE, Clarence J., CJl 1921 1340 E. South St, South Bend, Ind. 
KNOBLOCK, Eugene C . LL.B. 1927 1202 Cleveland Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
KOCH. George T.. B.C.S. 1925 c-o Biley High School. South Bend. Ind. 
KONOP, Philip L.. A.B. 1931. LL.B. 1933 1102 Stanfield, South Bend. Ind. 
KOPINSKI, Francis L.. A.B. 1931, LL.B. 1933 133 Fassnacht Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
KOVACS, Joseph J.. LL.B. 1916 540 Associates BIdg., South Bend, Ind. 
KOWALINSKI. Francis. B.S. 1925 520 S. Carlisle St, South Bend. Ind. 
KRAMER. John F.. Ph.B.Com. 1932 1004 E. Madison St. South Bend. Ind. 
KREIMER. Edward P.. E.E. 1923 1709 S. Dale St. South Bend. Ind. 
KREIS, Donald R., B.S.Arch. 1929 532 34th St . South Bend, Ind. 
KREPS, Kenneth L., Ph.B.For.Com. 1932 1862 N, Fremont Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
KROEGER. John W.. B.S.Ch.E. 1934 417 N. William St . South Bend. Ind. 
KROPFF. George L., LL.B. 1930 General Delivery. South Bend. Ind. 
KUBtAK. Joseph P.. B.S.Phar. 1934 2205 W. Bertrand St. South Bend. Ind. 
KUEHL. Russell C. LL.B. 1929 508 Citizens Bank BIdg.. South Bend. Ind. 
KUHNY. Eiirl H.. MJV. 1927 1113 Foster Ct. South Bend. Ind. 
KURDYS. Clement T., B.S.C.E. 1934 1126 Harney St. South Bend, Ind. 
IxABEDZ, Victor W., LL.B. 1926 1205 N. Huey St. South Bend. Ind. 
LANGENBAHN. Wm. R.. B.C.S.For. Com. '32 3tll N. Sunnyside. South Bend. Ind. 
LANGFORD. Walter M.. A.B. 1930 1930 Berkley Place. South Bend, Ind. 
LASZLO, Arthur S., B.S.Ch.E. 1930 925 21st St . South Bend. Ind. 
LAUBER, Joseph W.. B.SJirch. 1929 529 N. Scott St, South Bend. Ind. 
LAVENCOOD. Francis L.. B.Arch. 1934 402 E. Angclla Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
hAWTOa. Jasper H., B.S.Biol. 1912 2202 Portage Ave, South Bend, Ind. 
LEAN, Edward W., Ph.B.Com. 1930 137 E. Altgeld. South Bend. Ind. 
LEDING. Michael J.. B.S.E.E. 1933 2501 S. Michigan St. South Bend. Ind. 
LERHAN. Morris A.. B.S. 1933 1111 S. Michigan St . South Bend. Ind. 
LERNER. Theodore J.. Ph.G. 1912 1116 E. Victoria St, South Bend. Ind. 
LOVETT. Leo J., Ch.E. 1922 125 Wakewa Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
LUTHER. Edmund J.. LL.B. 1925 616 I. O. O. P. BIdg., South Bend. Ind. 
MAHONEY. Daniel J.. A.B. 1934 Sorin St, South Bend, Ind. 
DIAHONEY. John J., LL.B. 1929 Bell Telephone Co., South Bend, Ind. 
MAHONEY, Leo A.. C.B. 1922 Route 6, Box 6, South Bend, Ind. 
MALKOWSKI, John S., E.E. 1915 1019 N. Fi-ancis, South Bend, Ind. 
BIALONE. Grover J.. E.E. 1920 1136 N. Notre Diime. South Bend. Ind. 
HALONET. Albert J.. A.B. 1931 
C.OInternational Harvester Co.. 1319 S. Lafayette St, South Bend, Ind. ­
HARK. Lester S.. B.S.ABri.. 1925. MJ^ 1934 
R. B. 5, Box 391. South Bend, Ind. 
UARSHALL, John P. B.G.S.For.Com. 1932 1320 E. Indiana Ave., South Bend, Ind. 

SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
SURTERSTECK. Karl. B.S.M.B. 1929 110 E. Pokagon St.. South Bend. Ind. 
JIARTERSTECK. Pnul J.. B.S.M.E. 1934 110 E Pokagon St. Sooth Bend. Ind. 
JIARTERSTECK. •William J.. B.S3I.E. 1933 110 E Pokagon St, South Bend. Ind. 
5IASENICH. Jay, Ph.B.Com. 1926 408 K Cushine: St.. South Besd, Ind. 
JIATTHES. Carl A.. B.C.S. 1927 120 S. Hill St . South Bend. Ind. 
SIATTHES. Walter J.. Arch.B. 1922 120 S. Hill St. South Bend. Ind. 
JIAURUS. Edward J.. B.S. 1S93. M.S. 1S95 1328 E. Wayno St., S., South Bend, Ind. 
MAY. -Arthur L.. LL.B. 1918. LLM. 1919 811 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend. Ind, 

McAULIFFE. Robert H. os. 1918. el. 1025 319 LaMontc Terrace. South Bend, Ind. 
MCCAFFREY. Bernard J.. M.E. 1922 836 E. Sorin St., South Bend. Ind. 
MCCAFFREY, James J.. S.E.E. 1911. E.E. 1916 410 E. Howard St, South Bend, Ind. 
MCCARTHY, J. H. B.. Spec. el. 1029 Oliver Mfg. CO., South Bend, Ind. 
MCERLAIN. E. J., OS. 1891. el. 1931 1215 E. Wayne St. South Bend. Ind. 
SICGANN . Albert. OS. 1921. el. 1929 222 Greenlawn Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
McIXERXY, J. Walter, LL.B. 1906 555 .^sociates Bldg.. South Bend, Ind, 
McINTYRE. John E., B.C.S. 1931 306 E. .4Itgeld St, South Bend. Ind. 
McIXTYRE, Richard J., B.S.Phar. 1931 3100 E. Jefferson Blvd.. South Bend. Ind. 
MdNTYBE. Walter J.. B.S.Agric. 1923 
P. O. Box 434. South Bend. Ind. 

McKEXXA. E. I/.. Spec. 832 N. St. Louis Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
McNAMARA, Dan. OS. 1929, el. 1932 1336 Cedar St, South Bend, Ind. 
McNAMARA, John H.. A.B. 1933 116 Peashway St., South Bend, Ind. 
MEEHAX. Edward J.. Litt.B. 1920 1304 Tecumseh Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
MENDEE, P. L. M.E. 1912 125 S. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
MEREDITH, Edward M., LL.B. 1930 1212 Thomas St, South Bend. Ind. 
MESSICK. Francis M., B.C.S. 1930 Trimore Apts.. South Bend. Ind. 
sncINSKI. Clement Ph.G. 1929 132 S. Laurel St, South Bend, Ind. 
SHLES, Frank, 05. 1921, el. 1931 1403 E. McKinley, South Bend, Ind. 
MILLER. CallLx E.. BJlrch. 1921 2002 Bader Ave.. South Bend, Ind. 
MILLER. David O., B.C.S. 1933 524 E. Broadway, South Bend, Ind. 
JHLLER. Joseph E., Ph.BJ.C. 1924 1019 S. Michigan St , South Bend, Ind. 
MILLER, Joseph P.. LL.B. 1925 713 E. Jefferson Blvd., South Bond, Ind. 
MOORE. Elwyn M.. Ph.B. 1920 314 S. Eddy St., South Bend, Ind. 
MORAX, Francis E., A.B. 1927. A.M. 1930 321 N. Taylor Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
MOREXCY, Lylc E.. B.C.S. 1927 619 L O. O. P. Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
MORRIS. Ernest M., LL.B. 1906 Associates Bldg.. South Bend, Ind. 
MUELLXER. Joseph P.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1933 1609 Florence Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
MULLEN, John L, B.S.C.E. 1934 716 E. Cedar St, South Bend. Ind. 
MURPHY, Lewis J., A.B.J.D. 1926 726 E. Corby St, South Bend, Ind. 
NEWSIAN, Leo A.. B.C.S. 1932 2106 S. Leer St, South Bend. Ind. 
NICAR, Philip. SpecLaw. 1924 News-Times. South Bend, Ind. 
NIE.MIEC, John W., LL.B. 1923 310 Union Trust Bldg., South Bend. Ind. 
NIEMER, Melchior S.. E.E. 1917. M.E. 1919 1401 W. Sample St, South Bend, Ind. 
NOON. Eugene P., Ph.B.Journ. 1924 Publicity Dept.. Studebaker Corp., South Bend, Ind. 

NOVAK, Joseph S.. A.B. 1934 1301 W. Ford St , South Bend, Ind. 
XYIKOS. Joseph W., LL.B. 1923 314 B. Pokagon, South Bend. Ind. 
NYIKOS, Stephen F., Ph.C. 1921 112S W. Indiana Ave.; South Bend, Ind. 
O'BRIEN, George L.. os. 1890, el. 1923 903 E. Jefferson Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
OEHLHOFFEN, John P., B.SJI.E. 1927 414 N. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
OESTER, y . T. B.S.Phar. 1931. M.S. 1933 601 Cottage Grove Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
OLCZAK, Edward A.. A.B. 1933 719 W. Colfax, South Bend, Ind. 
OLIVER, n , James, os. 1901. el. 1923 131 S. Taylor St, South Bend, Ind. 
OTTO, Merritt M.. B.S. 1930, M.S. 1931. 2110 S. High St, Ph.D. 1933 South Bend, Ind. 
OTTO, William C , B.S.C.E. 1932 2110 S. High St, South Bend, Ind. 
PARENT, Fred R., A.B. 1930 701 Sherland Bldg.. South Bend, Ind. 
PASCOFF, Ma-x, B.C.S. 1931 1055 Woodward Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
PATTERSON, Dillon J., Ph.B.Joum. 1920 135 Marquette, South Bend, Ind. 
PAYTON, Eugene J., LL.B. 1923 408 Pokagon St, South Bend, Ind. 
PEAK, John E., LL.B. 1912 204 Dean Bldg., South Bend. Ind. 
PETTIT, M. L., MJ^. 1927 1302 E. Victoria, South Bend. Ind. 
PIRCHIO. Pasdualc, E.E. 1925, MJV. 1932 125 E. Cripe St, Roseland, South Bend, Ind. 
PISER, Benjamin C. B.C.S. 1924 417 L O. O. F. Bide., South Bend, Ind. 
PLOTKIN, David A., B.S. 1933 1006 E St Vincent St, South Bend, Ind. 
PORTA, Armando J., Ph.B.C. 1925 2033 S. Leer St , South Bend, Ind. 
POTTS, Clifford J.. LL.B. 1926 1105 Hudson Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
POUHN. Harry E., OS. 1899 225 N. St Louis Blvd., South Bend, Ind, 
POUUN, Bolland J., B.C.S. 1931 225 N. St Louis Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
POWERS,, Dr. Prank J., B.S.Biol. 1894, 1326 B. Waj-ne St, M.S. 1899 South Bend, Ind. 
PREKOWITZ, Theodore E., Ph.B.For.Com. '33 810 Western Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
PROBST. John E., B.S.MJl. 192S 334 N. Hill St, South Bend, Ind. 
PROBST. Rudolph O.. E.E. 1911 334 N. Hill St, South Bend. Ind. 
PUTERBAUGH, Myron D., B.C.S. 1934 1073 Woodward Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
QUALLEY, J. Kenneth, Ph.B.Com. 1927 c-o LaSalle Hotel, South Bend. Ind. 
RACB, Walter I., ChJL 1923 Northern Indiana Public Service Co., South Bend, Ind. 
REED, Thomas E., LL.B. 1933 314 S. William St, South Bend. Ind. 
RICE, W. A. LL.B. 1921. LL.H. 1922 206 Christman Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
RICH, Ronald E., B.S.Ch.E. 1928 1246 E. Miner St, South Bend. Ind. 
RICHTER, Elton E., J.D. 1926 218 E. Angela Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
RICHWINE, Harry A.. LL.B. '20, LLJJ. '22 
I. O. O. F. Bldg., Sooth Bend, Ind. 

RIEDER, Ernest V.. B.SJI.E. 1928 808 E. Madison St, South Bend, Ind. 
RIEDER. Leo P., A.B. 1923. LL.B. 1925 SOS E. Madison St, South Bend, Ind. 
ROBERTSON, Harold X, LL.B. 1926 301 Union Trust Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
ROBERTSON. Neil V.. LL.B. 1916 971 Riverside Drive South Bend. Ind. 
RODIN. Max B., B.S3IJL 1934 310 S. Chapin St. South Bend, Ind. 
ROEMER, William P., Ph.D. 1927 422 E. Angella Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
RONAY. Stephen H., A.B. 1927. MJi. 1931 501 W. Washington, South Bend. Ind. 
ROTHBALLER. Dr. Ulysses J., B.S. 1928 Associates Bldg.. South Bend. Ind. 
RDPPE. Robert J.. B.3JLE. 1931 Apt 3, 1004 E. Madison St, South Bend, Ind. 
RYAN, David E.. B.C.S. 1934 502 N. Ironwood Drive, South Bend, Ind. 
SABO, Louis P.. B.S.PhysXd. 1933 818 W. Thomas St , South Bend, Ind. 
SANDS, George W.. LL.B. 1910 619 I. O. O. P. Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
SCHAUB, Ray A., os. 1914, el. 1925 402 Peashvray St, South Bend, Ind. 
SCHEER. Arthur P., LLB. 1926 1230 Diamond Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
SCHELLINGER. Armand L., 1,L.B. 1919 730 Sherland Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
SCHELLINGER, Arthur A.. LL.B. 1911 803 W. Colfax Ave.. South Bend, Ind. 
SCHEUER. George A.. A.B. 1928 218 S. 35th St , South Bend, Ind. 
SCHSnTT, Edward J.. Ph.B. 1922. MJL 1924 911 S. Main St , South Bend, Ind. 
SCHOCK, George J., LL.B. 1918 327 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
SCHWERTLEY, Paul J.. LL.B. 1922 601 Associates Bldg.. South Bend, Ind. 
SEARER, Russell P.. A.B. 1928. LL.B. 1930 402 E. Bowman St., Sooth Bend. Ind. 
SHCOLNIK. Harry S.. B.C.S. 1933 401 E. Wenger St, Sooth Bend, Ind. 
SHEEHAN. William P., B.C.S. 1925 1225 E. Wayne St, N., South Bend, Ind. 
SHILTS, Walter L., C.E. 1922. M.S. 1924 714 E Corby St, South Bend, Ind. 
SHIVELY', Dudley M., LU t 1892 605-616 Associates Bldg.. South Bend, Ind. 
SHIVELY, John C., A.B. 1931, LL.B. 1934 1002 E. Jefferson Blvd., South Bend, Ind, 
SIMKO, John J., B.SJa.E. 1932 241 PagiQ St, South Bend, Ind. 
SIMONS, J. Clyde, B-SXhar. 1929. M.S. 1931 2219 S. Michigan St, South Bend, Ind. 
S»nTH, Charles A, B.C.S. 1931 1819 Miami St , Sooth Bend, Ind. 
SMITH. David J., A.B. 1931 3515 S. Michigan St. Sooth Bend. Ind. 
SMITH, Edward B., LL.B. 1930 1402 Lincoln Way West, South Bend, Ind. 
SSnTHBERGER, Andrew, M-A. 1927 1516 Hildreth, South Bend, Ind. 
SMOGOR, Eugene A.. Ph.B. 1922 417 E. Bwinff Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
SNYDER, Raymond M., A.B. 1927, M.A. 192S 1302 MishawnVn Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
SOBECKI, Dr. Clement T., os. 1921 314 Shcrland Bids., South Bend, Ind. 
SOMltlERER, Edwin H., LL.B. 1915 Court House Basement, South Bend, Ind. 
SOUTH, Benjamin J., B.S.E.B. '30, M.S. '33 113S R Miner St., South Bend, Ind. 
STAUNTON, John J.. B.S.E.B. '32. M.S. '34 533 R Ansela Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
STEPHENSON, Joseph M., os. 1910, el. 1925 1329 E. Washington St., South Bend, Ind. 
STOECKLEY. John F., A.B. 1925 622 W. Colfax Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
STREBINGER. Joseph B.. B.S.E.E. 1932 327 N. St. Peter St., South Bend. Ind. 
SWEENEY, Walter A., LL.B. 1921 716 W. LaSalle St., South Bend, Ind. 
SZEKELY, Ernest A., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1933 E09 Tumock SL, South Bend, Ind. 
TABERSEI, Sylvester A., A_B. 1925 417 S. Brookfield. South Bend, Ind. 
TEMPLETON, John Galbraith. B.C.S. 1934 801 23rd St., South Bend. Ind. 
THOSIAN, Edward F., B.S.E.R 192S 1237 N. College St., South Bend, Ind. 
THORNTON, Dr. Maurice J., B.S. 1920 522 Associates Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
TOLCHDJSKY, D., B.S.Phar. 1931 2621 S. Michigan St., South Bend. Ind. 
TREXLER. Philip C. B.S. 1934 
E. E. No. 6. Box 500, South Bend, Ind. 

TROY, David R, B.S.M.E. 1933 814 N Notre Dame Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
TSIOLIS, Nicholas T., A.B. 1933 511 E. Washington St.. South Bend. Ind. 
TSIOLIS, Thomas J., B.S.C.E. 1934 511 R Washington St.. South Bend. Ind. 
TSIOLIS, William P., Ph.B.For.Com. 1934 511 R Washington St.. South Bend. Ind. 
UHL, Gilbert R, A.B. 1925 720 Forest Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
USSHER. Jr., George C., B.C.S. 1932 2413 Erskine Blvd., South Bend. Ind. 
VAUGHN, Thomas H.. B.S. 1931, M.S. 1932, 1321 E. Donald St., Ph.D. 1934 South Bend, Ind. 
VOEDISCH, John T., A.B. 1928 1715 R Wayne St, South Bend, Ind. 
VOGT, Richard K, B.S. 1915, M.S. 1916, E. R. 3, Box 169, Ph.D. 1920 South Bend, Ind. 
VOLL, Bernard J., Ph.B. 1917 Sihiey Machine Co., South Bend, Ind. 
VOOR, William R, LL.B. 1925 1602 R Cedar St., South Bend, Ind. 
VURPILLAT, Dr. Francis J.. Ph.B. 1920 2420 Erskine Blvd.. South Bend. Ind. 
WACK. George J., Ph.B.For.Com. 1923 1025 St. Vincent St, South Bend, Ind. 
WAGNER, Willard F., LL.B. 1929 626 S. Fellows St, South Bend, Ind. 
WALZ, Jay F., A.B. 1929 415 LaMonte Terrace, South Bend, Ind. 
WALZ, Wllford V.. LL.B. 1925 661 Associates Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
WEBER, A. Harold, Ph.B.Com. 1922 603-4 Citizens Bank Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
^VEBSTER, W. B. B.S.E.R 1931 309 R Napoleon Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
WEIGAND, Karl E., B.S.E.R 1930 502 E. Munroe, South Bend, Ind. 
\VEINSTEIN. Benjamin H., A.B. 1933 1710 S. Michigan St, South Bend. Ind. 
'WEISBERGER, Seymour H., A.B. 1926, Mar-Main Apts., LL.B. 1928 South Bend, Ind. 
WEISS, Oiarlcs F., A.B. 1932 612 N. Gushing St, South Bend, Ind. 
WEST, F. R.. B. Arch. 1931 1903 N. Hucy St , South Bend, Ind. 
WIATKOWSKI, Feliks L., B.S.Phar. 1933 807 W. Thomas St, South Bend, Ind. 
WIECZOBEK, Edmund J.. B.SJVrch. 1932 925 N. Adams St, South Bend, Ind. 
VnSE, Donald F., A.B. 1933 1246 Hillcrcst Road, South Bend Ind. 
WITT, Ralph D., B.S.RE. 1932 502 Sherman Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
WORDAN, Ray A;, B.S_4rch.R 1928 405 Tonti Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
WORDEN, John, B.S.Biol. 1903 1011 R Madison St , South Bend. Ind. 
WUNSCH, Harry F., A.B. 1934 1001 S. 27th St , South Bend, Ind. 
ZGODZINSKI, Leo S., Ph.B. 1914 221 Embel Court. South Bend. Ind. 
ZIEGLER, Granville Place, LL.B. 1934 322 S. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
ZUDIERER, Carl R, A.B. 1934 730 E. Madison St, South Bend, Ind. 
TEFFT FITZGERALD, James E., Ph.B.Com. 1923 Tellt Ind. 
TELL CITY CASSIDY, Kenneth H., Ph.B.Com. 1930 720 Ninth St, Tell City, Ind. 
TEMPLETON liENNEDY. Paul J., B.S. Agric. 1924 Xempleton, Ind. 
TERRE HAUTE BARBAZETTE, John H., B.SJI.E. 1933 900 S. Fifth St. Terre Haute, Ind. 
KEARNS, Raymond J., LL.B. 1922 1601 S. Center St, Terre Haute, Ind. 
KEIFER, Louis F., Ph.B.Joum. 1916 814 CoUctt Ave., Terre Haute, Ind. 
LYNCH, Edward F., LL.B. 1926 1446 S. Sixth St, Terre Haute, Ind. 
LYNCH, John H., Ph.B.Com. 1933 1446 S. Sixth St. Terre Haute, Ind. 
NE\aLLE, Maurice N., Ph.B.Com. 1932 3208 S. Seventh St, Terre Haute, Ind. 
O'DEA, Edward J., Ph.B.F.Com. 1931 49 S. 13th St, Terre Haute, Ind. 
VALPARAISO CO.MEFORD, James J., B.C.S. 1931 
R. F. D. 1, Valparaiso, Ind. 

RYAN, Edward J., LL.B. 1925 101 Lincoln Way, Valparaiso, Ind. 
THUNE, Thomas R., B.C.S. 1933 357 Jeiterson St, Valparaiso, Ind. 
VINCENNES LENAHAN, Charles B.. A.B. 1933 1203 Busseron Ave., Vincennes, Ind. 
LENAHAN, Paul R., B.S.Chem.E. 1930 902 Buntin St, Vincennes, Ind. 
MILLER, Lyle R, LL.B. 1923 213 LaPlante Bids.. Vincennes, Ind. 
WABASH McNARNEY, Hugh J., B.SJLE. 1932 158 W. Maple St, Wabash, Ind. 
WARSAW nURBIN, Clarence A., B.SJ^ch.E. 1931 1028 R Market St, Warsaw, Ind. 
WASHINGTON FARRIS, Charles L.. A.B. 1933 419 Fourth St. Washington, Ind. 
WHITING BOYLE, Austin L., A.B. 1931 1724 Sheridan Ave., Whiting, Ind. 
COUGHLAN, Thomas R. LL.B. 1933 1749 Lincoln Ave., Whiting, Ind. 
GORSIAN, William J., A.B. 1932 1720 Laporte Ave., "ftTiiting, Ind. 
KECKICH, Walter J., LL.B. 1933 1024 Myrtle St, Whiting, Ind. 
MCCARTHY, Dr. Jeremiah A., B.S.Biol. 1916 1341 R 119th St , WhiUng, Ind. 
O'KEEFE, Michael J.. LL.B. 1929 2031 Indianapolis Blvd., ^Vhiting, Ind. 
PASKWIETZ, David J.. A.B. 1934 1733 Sheridan Ave.. Whiting, Ind. 
POLISKY, John, LL.B. 1929 2031 Indianapolis Blvd., ^Vhiting, Ind. 
SCHULZE , Robert J., B.C.S.For.Com. 1929 1738 LaPorte Ave., Whiting, Ind. 
THIELE, John M., os. 1896 1738 Central Ave., \VhitinE, Ind. 
WINAMAC FALVEY, Richard J., Ph.B.Com. 1923 Winamac, Ind. 
FITES. Cyril B.. M.E. 1922 314 S. Franklin St, Winamac, Ind. 
FREEMAN, James A., B.C.SJor.Com. 1933 Winamac, Ind. 
GRABNER, Henry C, M.R 1920 114 N. Market St, Winamac. Ind. 
WINCHESTER FITZ&LAURICE, Edward J.. B.S.Arch.E. 1934 407 W. Franklin St, Winchester, Ind. 
IOWA 

ALGONA SULLIVAN, William Wade, A.B. 1926 721 R Call St , jUgona, Iowa 
ALTON KUHL , Everett, B.C.S. 1924 Alton, Iowa 
BUFFALO CENTER DOLHAGE, George H., A.B. 1926 Buffalo Center, Iowa 
BURLINGTON DAILEY. Edward William. A.B. 1933 421 S. Garfield St , Burlington, Iowa 
DAILEY. John A. LL.B. 1927 421 S. Garfield St, Burlington, Iowa 
GREEN, William D.. A.B. 1926 1107 S. Eighth St, Burlington, Iowa 
TRACEY, Hon. George, os. ISSl, el. 1923 601 N. Sixth St, Burlington, Iowa 
TRESSEL. John P., A.B. 1934 802 S. Seventh St , Burlington, Iowa 
CAEEOLL SIEYERS, Joseph J., LL.B. 1904 708 N. West St. Carroll, Iowa 
CASCADE LANE, Eobcrt D., B.S. 1929 Cascade, Iowa 
CEDAE RAPIDS GORMAN, Robert R, A.B. 1932 2426 Grande Ave., Cedar Rapids, Iowa 
HAUSER, Eugene W., os. 1920, el. 1926 Cedar Bapids Nat'l Bank. Cedar Bapids, Iowa 
HURRAY, John R., B.C.S. 1933 1844 Second Ave., Cedar Rapids, Iowa 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS 
SCHIHBERG, Hubert A., A.B. 1929 2741 Bever SU Cedar Rapids, Iowa 
SCOLARO. August T.. B.C.S. 1925 924 S. Third St., E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa 
CUNTON KEHPTER. Jr.. Paul E., LL.B. 1934 Clinton, Iowa 
LANGAN, Raymond C, LittB. 1893 Lnnsan Bld^.. Clinton, Iowa 
OAEES. Tliomas VF„ A.B. 1934 749 Seventh Ave.. S.. Clinton, Iowa 
COUNCIL BLUFFS LEAHY, Francis W., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1931 Catalpa Court Apts., Council Bluffs, Iowa 
TINLEY. Robert E., A.B. 1932 520 Third St.. Council BlufCs, Iowa 
WHALEN. Joseph E.. B.C.S. 1929 Hotel Chicfton. Council BlufTs. Iowa 
CEESTON HcENIRY, EuKene F.. LL.B. 1917 117 W. Adams St. Crestcn. Iowa 
DAVENPORT BESTEN. Elmer W.. LL.B. 1927 1711 W. Sixth St.. Davenport, Iowa 
BURKE, Charles L., A.B. 1929 1124 W. Ninth St., Davenport, Iowa 
McCULLOUGH, Gilbert F.. B.S.Biol. 1904 124 W. 12th St.. Davenport. Iowa 
McCULLOUGH. Henry M.. Ph.B.C. 1920 124 W. 12th St.. Davenport. Iowa 
NOLAN. Cyril N.. LL.B. 1930 802 Grand Court, Davenport, Iowa 
NOLAN, RoKcr W., B.SJI.E. 1926 802 Grand Court. Davenport, Iowa 
SWIFT, Richard B., LL.B. 1920 Kahl. Bids.. Davenport, Iowa 
WURZER, Henry C.. A.B. 1925 The Kahl Bids., Davenport. Iowa 
DENISON BRANNON. Robert K.. A.B. 1930 316 W. Broadway, Denison, Iowa 
DES MOINES BARRON, Emmett I.. LL.B. 1927 1301 Equitable Bldg., Des Moines, Iowa 
BEH, Carlcton D.. Ph.B. 1917 5323 Waterbury Road, Des Moines, Iowa 
HYNES, John F.. Litt.B. 1914. LL.B. 1913 1018 Hubbell Bide.. Des Moines, Iowa 
HYNES, William J., LL.B. 1917 719 41st St., Des Moines, Iowa 
KENNEDY, James F.. LL.B. 1894. LL.M. 1895 4829 Algonquin Drive, Des Moines, Iowa 
KLEIN, Harold P., B.C.S. 1926 4316 Franklin Ave.. Des Moines, Iowa 
LYNCH, Charles H., A.B. 1928 1429 13th St, Des Moines, Iowa 
NEU, Frederick G., Ph.B.For.Com. 1923 509 Iowa — Des Moines Bids., Des Moines, Iowa 
O'BOYLE. Harry W.. LL.B. 1927 1029 21st St, Des Moines, Iowa 
SHAW, James C. LL.B. 1922 307 Equitable Bldg., Des Moines, Iowa 
STARK, John T., LLB. 1917 1048 35th St, Des Moines, Iowa 
WALSH, Earl F., LL.B. 1922 Hotel Victoria, Des Moines, Iowa 
WONDERLIN, F. Marcellus. LL.B. 1929 302 Hubbell Bids., Des Moines, Iowa 
DUBUQUE DUFFY, John L., LL.B. 1924 1339 U t Pleasant Ave., Dubuque, Iowa 
KLAUER. Walter E., M.E. 1922 508 W. Seventh St. Dubuque, Iowa 
KRAJEWSKI, Casimir. BJlrch. 1916 321 Bonk & Insurance Bids.. Dubuque, Iowa 
MCCARTHY. John v.. MJL 1933 1080 W. 14th St, Dubuque, Iowa 
MEUSER. Jr., Joseph A., os. 1921, el. 1926 1090 Center Place, Dubuque, Iowa 
MEUSER. William B.. Ph.B. 1916 202 S. Locust St, Dubuque, Iowa 
NELSON. John J., LL.B. 1930 430 Seminary St. Dubuque. Iowa 
NELSON, Patrick J., LL.B. 1888 430 Seminary St , Dubuque, Iowa 
NELSON, Thomas H.. LL.B. 1934 430 Seminary St, Dubuque, Iowa 
RHOSIBERG, Albin A., C.B. 1922 1 W. Seventh St., Dubuque, Iowa 
RHOMBERG. Joseph A.. Ph.B.Com. 1922 1 W. Seventh St., Dubuque. Iowa 
RHOSIBERG, Louis A„ B.C.S. 193i. 495 W. Seventh St, Dubuque, Iowa 
SIMONES, John J., A.B. 1929 1336 Julien Ave.. Dubuque. Iowa 
TRENKLE, Henry J., B.C.S. 1924 2452 Broadway, Dubuque, Iowa 
TSCHiroi, Edmund C LL.B. 1923 314 B. & I. Bids., Dubuque, Iowa 
TSCHUDI, Leo L., LL.B. 1915. LLJL 1916 1949 Jackson St, Dubuque, Iowa 
ZWACK, Clarence A., Arch.B. 1922 600 Stafford Ave., Dubuque, Iowa 
DUNCOMBE BROWN, John W., el. 1928 Duncombe, Iowa 
DYERSVILLE MANLEY , John W., A.B. 1931. LL.B. 1933 412 E. Hamilton St, Dyersiille, Iowa 
ELDORA DeBAGGIO, Carl J., A.B. 1929 c-K> Busy Bee Cafe. Eldora, Iowa 
EMMETSBDRG KELLY, Edward D.. OS. 1921. el. 1930 Emraetsburg, Iowa 
FONDA CAREY, Edward L., B.C.S. 1932 Fonda, Iowa 
FORT DODGE BREEN, Maurice J.. LittB. 1911 1205 Fifth Ave., Fort Dodse, Iowa 
CULLIGAN, J. S., B.S.Chem.E. 1931 1115 Fourth Ave., N., Fort Dodse. Iowa 
HAIRE. Robert E.. A.B. 1930 1115 Fourth Ave., N., Fort Dodse. Iowa 
HEALY, Thomas, os. 1912, el. 1923 605 Snell Bids.. Fort Dodse, Iowa 
LEARY, Denis E., os. 1914. el. 1926 622 Central Ave.. Fort Dodse, Iowa 
FORT MADISON O'NEIL, John W.. Ph.B.For.Cora. 1933 837 Avenue C. Fort Madison, Iowa 
ULLRICH, Fred D.. B.S. 1923 
A. T. & S. F. Hospital. Fort Madison, Iowa 
GREENFIELD MUS5IAKER, John L., Ph.B. 1920 Greenfield, Iowa 
HAMPTON SALEY. Robert L., A.B. 1908 Hampton, Iowa 
IDA GROVE WHITE, John E , LL.B. 1925 Ida Grove, Iowa 
WHITE, Matthew M., LL.B. 1888 Ida Grove, Iowa 
IOWA dr y TOOMEY. James C, B.S.Phar. 1928 536 S. Dodse, Iowa City, Iowa 
VALKER. Herbert P.. Fh3J'or.Com. 1923 833 K. Johnson Drive, Iowa City. Iowa 
KEOKUK CAMERON, John C. A.B. 1933 802 Orleans Ave., Keokuk, Iowa 
LANSING NACHTWEY, Robert A., B.S. 1934 Lansins, Iowa 
LA PORTE CITY FROST, Thomas W., Ph.BJor.Com. 1930 
R. F. D. 4, La Porte City, Iowa 
LB MARS MATHEY, Aloysius L., , BJVrch. 1925 915 Park St, Le liUrs, Iowa 
MASON CITY CASEY. Charles J., A3 . 1925 819 N. Madison Ave., Mason City, Iowa 
DAVEY, Lester P., Ph.B.C. 1925 1144 Second St, S. W.. Mason City, Iowa 
FORGE, Clarence J.. Ph.B.Cdm.l923 Box 28, Mason City, Iowa 
MASON, Michael L., A.B. 1929 304 S. Carolina Ave.. Mason City, Iowa 
MONTICELLO LOCHER. Simon E., A.B. 1933 Monticello, Iowa 
MUSCATINE O'SULUVAN, John P.. Ph3. 1924 919 Maiden Lane. Muscatine. Iowa 
ROACH. John W., Ph.B. 1908 Box 98. Muscatine, Iowa 
ROACH, Robert L., Ph.B. 1915 602 Laurel Bids., Muscatine. Iowa 
NEW HAMPTON DONOVAN, Timothy C. A3 . 1934 New Hampton. Iowa 
KENNEDY, J. F., Ph.B Jor.Com. 1923 156 S. IJnn St, New Hampton. Iowa 
KENNEDY, Jr., Walter J, Ph.B.Com. 1923 148 N. Walnut Ave., New Hampton, Iowa 
MfALOON, Walter J., A.B. 1929 104 E. Hale St, New Hampton, Iowa 
SULLIVAN, Raymond J., LL.B. 1915 Unity Bids-. New Hampton, Iowa 
NEWTON BERGSIAN. Ralph W., LL.B. 1920 429 First Ave., W., Ne\vton. Iowa 
OELWEIN O'CONNOR. Eusene J.. LL.B. 1904 Hintz Bids.. Oelwein, Iowa 
OSKALOOSA McCULLOUGH, William J., el. 1929 1201 Sixth Ave., Oskaloosa, Iowa 
OTTDMWA • DONELAM, William J.. Ph.B.Com. 1929 713 W. Fourth St, Ottumwa, Iowa 
NIE&IEYER. Linus C, Ph.B.Com. 1929 224 S. Market, Ottumwa, Iowa 
ROCKWELL SERGEANT BLUFF MENARD, Georse M., A3 . 1934 Sergeant Bluff, Iowa 
SIOUX OTY GREEN, Thomas W.. A.B. 1934 4201 Correctionville Road, .Sioux City, Iowa 
GREEN, William W.. B.S.CJL 1934 4201 Correctionville Road, Sioux City, Iowa 
HARRINGTON. Vincent P., A3 . 1925 Continental Mortgage Co.. Sioux City, Iowa 
KEEFFE. Richard H., Ph.B. 1911. LL.B. 1914 2115 Douglass St , Sioux City, Iowa 
LALLEY. Edward J.. UttB . 1920 CKi Hie Journal, Sioux City, Iowa 
MULHALL. John L., A3 . 1932 1524 Crand View Blvd., Sioux City, Iowa 

ZELLER. Richard, B.C.S. 192S 2028 Jones, Sioux City, Iowa 
STATE CENTER LISTON, Robert B.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 State Center, Iowa 
STUART BOBISON. William R., B.C.S. 1933 Stuart, Iowa 
WATERLOO CRONIN. Joseph B., B.C.S. 1933 910 W. First St. Waterloo. Iowa 
DENIGAN. William E.. S.Com. 1917 Box 393, Waterloo, Iowa 
WOLFE. John M.. B.C.S. 19S4 202 Highland Blvd., Waterloo, Iowa 
WAVERDY GALLAGHER. Paul W., A.B. 1934 602 First Ave., S. W., Wavcrly, Iowa 
LESLIE. Humphreys L., LL.B. 1920 204 S. State St. Waverly, Iowa 
WEST POINT POHLMETER. Harold V , B.C.S. 1933 West Point, Iowa 
POHLMETER, Walter 9., B.C.S. 1926 West Point, Iowa 
WILLIAMSBURG WHITE. Peter, LL.B. 1895 Williamsburg, Iowa 
KANSAS 

ATCHISON MDLLINS, Lawrence A., A.B. 1931 S t Benedict's College, Atchison, Kansas 
BAXTER SPRINGS KANE. Arthur J.. A.B. 1931 208 E. Tenth St, Baxter Springs, Kansas 
CANEY HAFEL. Clare P., EJ!. 1925 106 N. Hooker St, Caney, Kansas 
CHANUTB NOLAN. James D., LL.B. 1912 Box 558, Chanute, Kansas 
FORT LEAVENWORTH FOLET. Daniel F.. Ph.B.Com. 1923 25 Wint Ave.. Fort Leavenworth, Kansas 
FRANKFORT O'CONNOR, John Joseph. A.B. 1934 Citizens Nat'I Bank, Frankfort, Kansas 
HEPLER O'BRYAN. Joseph C A.B. 1929 Route 2. Hepler, Kansas 
HOISINGTON WILDGEN, Jerome C. S.E.E. 1914 HoisingtoQ. Kansas 
HUTCHINSON RYAN, Theodore J.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 213 £. Seventh St. Hutchinson, Kansas 
WELCHONS. Dan A.. Ph.BJor.Com. 1930 306 E. 13th St, Hutchinson, Kansas 
KANSAS CITY DeRTEE, Edward K.. A.B. 1929 200 N. Holmes St. Kansas City, Kansas 
LYONS, Theodore J.. IX.B. 1916 716 Pyle St.. Kansas City. Kansas 
KINGSMAN UeKENNA, Edward F., A.B. 1927 600 Avenue D, Klnssman, Kansas 
LEAVENWORTH DAWES, Joseph J., LL.B. 1926 1113 N. Eighth St, Leavenworth, Kansas 
HOLHAN. Edwin J., A.B. 1934 231 Hiird Ave., Leavenworth, Kansas 
SAVAGE. Hanvood G., B.S.AEric 1924 1200 High St. Leavenworth. Kansas 
NEEOUA MORAN, Martin Charles. A.B. 1933 Nekoma, Kansas 
SALINA BRIGGS. Robert F.. A.B. 1932 646 S. Iron Ave.. Salina. Kansas 
CARLIN, John E.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 130 S. Front St , Salinai Kansas 
SCHWARTZ, Norhert P., A.B. 1933 504 Fairdale, Salina, Kansas 
SOLOMON HARRINGTON, Timothy V.. Ph.G. 1909 Solomon. Kansas 
TOPEKA STEVENS. Walter A.. C.E. 1905 915 W. Tenth St. Topeka. Kansas 
• WICHITA 

GEBERT. Albert J.. LL.B. 1930 University of Wichita. Wichita, Kansas 
GLASS, William X. LL.B. 1932 115 N. Pershing St, Wichita, Kansas-
SULLIVAN, Robert J.. A.B. 1931 200 Terrace Drive, Wichita. Kansas 
WILSON SCHWAKZ, George A., Ph.B.C. 1925 Wilson, Kansas 
SCHWABZ, Michael N., Ph.B.For.Com. 1921 Wilson, Kansas 
KENTUCKY 

BARDSTOWN McGINNIS, Thomas M., B.C.S. 1932 Bardstown, Ky. 
CENTRAL CITY GISH, Tobe M., LL.B. 1927 Central City, Ky. 
COVINGTON DROEGE, John R., Ph.B.C. 1925 1411 Greenup St, Covington, Ky. 
DANVILLE CLARKE. Philip J.. J.D. 1927 Box 203, Danville, Ky. 
FANCY FARM CONBOY, Columbus, B.Arch. 1919 Box 1, Fancy Farm. Ky. 
FORT THOMAS SIADDEN. Jerome E.. B.S. 1931 25 Hartweg Ave., Fort Thomas. Ky. 
FRANKFORT HANRAHAN. James P_ LL.B. 1927 
R. B. 3. Frankfort. Ky. 

LEBANON SPALDING. Samuel J.. LL.B. 1S98 
P. O. Box 585, Lebanon, Ky. t 

LEXINGTON QUINN, Francis J., Ph.BJ'or.Com. 1928 209 Desha Road, Lexington, Ky. 
SBOUSE, John T., A.B. 1926 Lafayette Hotel, Lexington, Ky. 
WYNNE, Chester A., LL.B. 1922 Kentucky University, Lexington, Ky. 
LITCHFIELD McCLURE. Ernest K.. Ph.BJoum. 1924 Litchfield. Ky. 
LIVERMORB LINDESIANN. Edward G.. Ph.B. 1924 Livermore. Ky. 
LOUISVILLE ANGERMEIER. P. V.. B.C.S. 1931 1516 Cherokee Road. Louis\ille. Ky. 
AREHABT, Norbin. B.S.E.E. 1926 1245 Floyd St, Louisville, Ky. 
ASMAN. Henry B.. B.S. 1932 605 Breslin Medical Arts Bids.. Louisville. Ky. 
BANNON. John W., Ph.B.For.Com. 1932 2011 Sherwood. Louisville. Ky. 
BANNON, Robert E , B.S.Chem.E. 1928 2001 Sfaenvood. Louisville, Ky. 
BESTEN. Emil A., os. 1917 2321 Strathmoor Blvd.. Louisville. Ky. 
BLOEMER. Jr., Frank B., Ph.B.Com. 1922 1422 Willow t>lace, Louisville. Ky. 
BOSLER, William N., os. 1904. el. 1925 1001-3 Heyhum Bldg., Louisville, Ky. 
BROWN. James R.. os. 1920. el. 1926 542 Barberry Lane. Louisville, Ky. 
BlrSCREMEYER. Charles H,. A,B. 1929 4314 River Park Drive. I.ouisville. Ky. 
BUSCHEMEYER. John B„ A.B. 1928 4314 W, Chestnut Louisville. Ky. 
CAMPBELL. Jr.. John B.. B.Arch. 1917 1320 Lydia Place. Louisville. Ky. 
COSTELLO, James E.. os. 1919 1506 Hepburn St. Louisville. Ky. 
DANT. Philip S.. Ph.B. Com. 1922 1319 Bardstown Road. Louisville. Ky. 
DEMPF. Henry R.. Min.E. 1923 112 W. Ormsby Ave., Louisville. Ky. 
DOLL. Clifford W.. Ch.E. 1923 319 S. Fourth Ave.. Louisville. Ky. 
FEHR. Frank, os. 1889. el. 1925 412 Fehr Ave.. Louisville. Ky-
FELDHAN, Maurice A.. B.SJ^Jch. 1929 4502 W. Broadway. Louisville. Ky. 
FORSEE. John P.. A.B. 1930 2513 Longest Ave.. Louisville. Ky. 
GREENE. Patrick S., Ph.B.Com. 1929 415 K Market St, Louisville, Ky. 
EABERER. Bernard V., Ph.G. '17. B.S.Ph. '17 1854 Edgeland Ave.. Louisx'ille. Ky. 
HAMMOND. J. Kenneth. MJ!. 1925 1359 S. Brook St . Louis%-ille. Ky. 
HARWOOD, John E., B.Arch. 1927 4026 W. Chestnut St, Louisville, Ky. 
HEFFERNAN. Marion J.. A.B. 1928 1830 Frankfort Ave., Louisirille, Ky. 
EEANEY. John M., B.S. 1932 1600 Eastern Parkway. Louisville. Ky. 
DBWAN . Gilbert J„ B.C.S.For.Com. 1930 1840 I^uderdale Road. Louisville. Ky. 
KIBWAN, Jr.. Martin J., B.S.C.E. 1928 159 N. Hate Ave.. Louisville. Ky. 
NABER. Raymond. BC.S. 1933 417 S. Western Parkway. Louisville. Ky. 
O'CONNOR. William J.. A.B. 1901 Weisenger Gaulbert Apts.. Lotiisville. Ky. 
OSBOUBN, Thomas K. B.S.E.E. 1927 2702 Market St , Louisville. Ky. 
FFEIFFEB. Cornelius J.. Ph.B.Com. 1923 2016 Eastern Parkway. Louisville. Ky. 
PFEIFFER, Edward H.. Ph.B.Com. 1922 1415 Highland Ave., Louisville. Ky. 
PFEIFFER, Raymond L , B.S.E.E. 1932 940 Cherokee Road. Louisville. Ky. 
RHODES. Gerald E., B.S.E.E. 1927 1320 Story Ave.. Louisville. Ky. 
ROTHERT, Otto A., B.S. 1892 118 W. Breckinridge, Louisville, Ky. 
RYAN. John P., A.B. 1931 2220 W. Broadway. Louisville. Ky. 
SCHULTHEIS. Leo J.. B.S.E.E. 1928 1806 Windsor Place, Louisville, Ky. 
SHERMAN, WilUam N., Ph.B.Com. 1930 685 Western Parkway. Louisville. Ky. 
SPALDING. George MatUngly. A.B. 1931 Louisville Courier Journal. Louis\'ilIe. Ky. 
VEENEMAN. W. H., B.C.S. 1934 324 W. Main St, Louisville, Ky. 
WALL. Francis X., LL.B. 1880 Seneca Trail, R. F. D. 2. Louisville. Ky. 
WATHEN, Robert N.. A.B. 1927 Hoddng Bird Valley, Louisville, Ky. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
MAHCHESTER BALL, Hush E., B.S.E.E. 1932 Highway Dept., Manchester. Ky. 
MAYSVILLE 0-DONNELL, John F.. A.B. 1926 611 Forest Ave., Maysville, Ky. 
OWENSBORO AUD. Hugh P.. LL.B. 1912 417 Center St., Owensboro, Ky. 
CLEJIENTS. Fred J., LI,.B. 1926 223 E. Ann St., Owensboro. Ky, 
McCRAY, •William S.. LL.B. 1929 602 Ewing Court, Owensboro. Ky. 
SIEDLEY, Thomas A., A.B. ISOS, LL.B. 1900 Owensboro, Ky. 
OBERST. Albert B.. LL.B. 1906 600 Allen St., Owensboro. Ky. 
RAPIER, Sylvester L.. B.S.Ch.E. 1933 1531 Frederica. Owensboro. Ky. 
PADUCAH 

RUSSELL, Benjamin P.. Ch.E. 1923 c-o Kentucky Actuarial Bureau. Paducah. Ky. 
WELLS, Charles S.. B.C.S. 1931 Friedrich Apts.. Paducah. Ky. 
YEISER, John T.. B.C.S. 1933 330 N. Ninth St., Paducah. Ky. 
SPRINGFIELD MONTGOMERY, Charles E.. B.C.S. 1933 Springfield. Ky. 
VANCEBURG BRADY, John P.. LL.B. 1922 Court House. Vanceburg, Ky. 
VERSAILLES McKEE, James A., A.B. 1893 Versailles, K>-. 
LOUISLA,NA 
ALEXANDRIA BARRETT, John M., B.S.C.E. 1933 1757 Jackson St.. Alexandria. La. 
CROCKETT, Charles W.. B.C.S. 1932 312 Jifth St, Ale-tandria, La. 
DAVID, Francis E.. Ph.B.CE. 192S 1032 Tenth St.. Alexandria, La. 
DAVID, Thomas C. B.S.C.E. 1934 1032 Tenth St., Alexandria. La. 
tlcKEAN, Joseph E.. B.C.S. 1932 1776 Jackson Ave.. Alexandria. La. 
BATON ROUGE WOLF, William L., B.S.E.E. 1934 243 Fifth St. Baton Rouge, La. 
BOGALUSA CASSIDY, William E.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 301 N. B. Drive, Bosalusa, La. 
ELM GROVE CAPLIS, Wlliam A.. Ph.B.Com. 192S Elm Grove. La. 
HAMMOND BLACHE, Joseph. LL.B. 1924 Hammond. La. 
BRADLEY, John W.. A.B. 1932 311 E. Robert St. Hammond. La. 
NALTY, Leonard A.. B.C.S. 1930 Hammond. La. 
BUNKIE POPE, Clarence J., os. 1391, el. 1923 Bunkie, La. 
JONESVILLE POPE, George B.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 Ouachita Ice & Utilities, Jonesville. La. 
LAFAYBTTE ESCUOIER. Kermit R., A.B. 1932 707 E. Vermillion Ave.. Lafayette, La. 

LAKE CHARLES BIRD, Bernard J.. A.B. 192S 130 N. Ryan St. Lake Charles. La. 
MARERRO 

VAN BEERSUM. Gerard. A.B. 1934 Immaculate Conception Rectory. Marerro. La. 
NEW ORLEANS BURKE, Edward B.. A.B. 192S 2006 Canal St, New Orleans, La. 
BURKE, Patrick B.. LL.B. 1SS8. A.B. 1889 307 Camp. New Orleans. La. 
CRAVEN, Thomas V., LL.B. 1914 4133 Palmyra St. New Orleans, La. 
De La VERGNE, Charles C, LL.B. 1925 2901 Ursuline Ave.. New Orleans. La. 
Dc La VERGNE. Jules C. B.Arch. 1933 5931 St. Charles Ave.. New Orleans. La. 
DOHAN. Joseph, os. 1903. el. 1925 2212 Wirth Place. New Orleans. La. 
FAVRET, James K. B.S.C.E. 1930 4837 S t Claude Ave., New Orleans. La. 
JOHNSTON, Fabian N., E.E. 1912 3316 State S t Drive. New Orleans, La. 
ROJtANO, Andrew S., B.S. 1928 3539 S t Charles Ave., New Orleans. La. 
SPORL, Jr.. Cyprian A.. LL.B. 1928 ^Vhitney-Cent^al Bldg.. New Orleans. La. 
SPORL. Edward F.. B.C.SJor.Com. 1934 2713 Robert St, New Orleans, La. 
SPORL. Harold D.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1934 6550 Oakland Drive. New Orleans. La. 
OMEGA GILFOIL. James M.. A.B. 1934 Omega. La. 
OPELOUSAS DUBUISSON, John F., A.B. 1930 Opelousas. La. 
SHREVEPORT CABMODY, Arthur. E.E. 1915 819 Slattery Bldg.. Shreveport. La. 
CARMODY. Frederick E, Ph.B.Com. 1932 851 Jordan St, Shreveport. La. 
CARMODY. James B.. Jh.B.Journ. 1923 851 Jordan St., Shreveport, La. 
CARMODY. Michael. S.M.E. 1915 Sol Jordan St., Shreveport. La. 
COWLES, James G.. LL.B. 1928 1732 Buckner St. Shreveport. La. 
JASPER, William E.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1927 1712 Buckner St, Shreveport. La. 
LASKEY, Donald C. LL.B. 1927 
P. O. Box 1135, Shreveport. La. 

JIURPHY, John P.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1928 431 Stonec Ave, Shreveport, La. 
BOLWING, Francis D.. Ph.B.Com. 1926 218 Stoner Ave.. Shreireport. La. 
ROY. Robert A.. B.S.E.E. 1927 912 Kingshighway. Shreveport. La. 
VINTON BRADSHAW, William H., B.S3r.E. Box 512. Vinton. La. 
MAINE 

MADISON OUELLETTE, Carolus A.. B.C.S.For.Com. '28 74 Pine St, Madison, Maine 
WESTBROOK SULLIVAN, John H.. B.S. 1934 42 Green St, Westhrook, Maine 

YORK BEACH HOLLAND, AusUn J.. A.B. 1928 Box 354. York Beach, Maine 



MARYLAND 
ANNAPOUS 

MILLER. Edgar £., Ph.B.F.C. 1925 Football Coach, U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. 
BALTIMORE BARTON. Daniel,' A.B. 1930 Jefferson Apts., 324 St Paul St, Baltimore, Md. 
CONLEY, John E., A.B. 1934 Homewood Apt, Charles ic 31st St, Baltimore, Md. 
DOCKMAN. Joseph James, A.B. 1933 2230 Garrison Blvd., Baltimore, Md. 
HOLBACH, Joseph P., Fh.BJ'or.Com. 1933 1211 E. Biddle St, Baltimore, Md. 
HOLLAND. E. L.. OS. 1900 Maryland Commercial Bankers. 413 W. Fayette St. Baltimore, Md. 
ItlALLOY. James A.. B.S.KE. 1930 Jefferson Apts.. 4 B. 32nd St, Apt 106. Baltimore, Md. 
McNICHOLAS, Thomas M., A.B. 1929 Secretary to the President Maryland Casualty Co., Baltimore, Md. 
PRENDERGAST. John G., A.B. 1930 Phi Kappa Sigma Clnh^ 17 W. Mulberry St, Baltimore, Md. 
ZELL, Lawrence M., B.S. 1931 814 N. Broadway, Baltimore. Md. 
CHEVY CHASE CHURCH. Darant, LL.B. 1905 10 Cumberland Ave., Chevy Chase. Md. 
ENGELS, Vincent D., Ph.BJonm. 1923 101 E. Melrose St, Chevy Chase, Md. 
CUMBERLAND CONWAY. Patrick J.. Ph.B_roum. 1930 LaSalle High School. Cumberland. Md. 
O'NEIL. Hugh B., B.S. 1934 12 N. Smallwood St, Cumberland, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS 

ADAMS WILK. Joseph A., A.B. 1931 Notch Road, Adams, Mass. 
BELMONT SKAHAN. James R., B.C.S. 1931 5 Grove St , Belmont, Mass. 
BEVERLEY FARMS CRONAN. Leo J., B.SJ>hysj:d. 1934 Beverley Farms, Mass. 
BOSTON BAINE. Charles F., os. 1920, el. 1925 Globe Indemnity Co., 40 Broad St.. Boston, 
BRODERICK. Paul J.. A.B. 1926 Paramonnt Pictures. 58 Berkeley St, Boston, Mass. 
COYLE, Arthur James. B.S. 1917 Metallurgical Laboratory, Boston Navy Yard, Boston, Mass. 
HIGGINS. William P.. LL.B. 1903 18 Tremont Blvd.. Boston, Mass. 
LYNCH, Dr. James J., B.S.Biol. 1915 270 Commonwealth Ave.. Boston, 3Ias5. 
MOHAN. William H.. B.S. 1930 263 Vanderbilt Hall. Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass. 
PHILUPS. Wendell T.. B.Arch. 1912 Statler Office Bldg., 20 Providence St, Boston, Mass. 
BROCKTON 

BLUNT. Hndi F., A.B. 1924 217-18 Home Banking Bldg., Brockton, Mass. 
BROOKUNE DRISCOLL. Jr., James F., Ph.B.Com. 1930 161 Naples Road, Brookline, Mass. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS 
£GAX, John ^Y„ A.B. 192S 671 Chestnut Hill Ave., Brookline, Mass. 
FLYNN, Philip S., A.B. 1930 37 St. Paul St., Brookline, Hass. 
McCAULEY, Leo J.. A.B. 1927 Hotel Coolidge, Brookline, Mass. 
CAMBRIDGE CDI.HANE, F. John, MJL 1929 35 Mellcn St., Cainbridge, Mass. 
HAWKES, William M., B.S.E.E. 1933 Box 97. Teeh Dorms. M. I. T., Cambndse, Mass. 
JENNY, Frauds J., B.S.Ch.E. 1933 Mass. Inst, of Tech., Cambridee, Mass. 
KELLEHER, John F., M.A. 1930 11 Sacramento Place, Cambridge, Mass. 
KELLY. Frank J,. BJ^ch. 1932 20 IVowbridge St., Cambridge, Mass. 
CHICOPEE SNYDER, Raymond P., A.B. 1931 Chicopee, Mass. 
CHICOPEE FALLS GOLDEN, •William L., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1933 100 Madison St, Chicopee Falls, Mass. 
SIURPHY, C. B., A.B. 1931 135 East St., Chicopee Falls, Mass. 
CLINTON BURKE, John P., B.S. 1933 33 Norman St., Clinton, Mass. 
BURKE, John T., A.B. 1928, LL.B. 1929 743 Main St., Clinton, Mass. 
HASTINGS, Patrick J., A.B. 1930 25 Orange St, Clinton, Mass. 
OTtALLEY, IPrancis J., A.B. 1932, M_A- 1933 245 Oak St, Clinton, Mass. 
SALMON. Martin J., A.B. 1928 91 Beacon, Clinton, Mass. 
COHASSET RILEY, John U„ Ph.B.Joum. 1917 Box 86, Cohassct, Mass. 
DEDHAM CROWLEY, Charles F., LL.B. 1913 172 Mt Vernon St , Dedham, Mass. 
DORCHESTER COLTON. Charles F., A.B. 1929 9 Taft St, Dorchester, Mass. 
GARTLAND, Jr.. Joseph A., Ph.B.Com. 1927 21 Waldeck St, Dorchester, Mass. 
McMANUS, Paul F., A.B. 1934 32 Pearl St, Dorchester, Mass. 
MURPHY, John H., A.B. 1932 34 Spauldine St, Dorchester, Mass. 
REILLY. Francis H., A.B. 1932 lOS S. BloomSeld St . Dorchester, Mass. 
ROCKBTT, Jr., Hany J., A-B. 1934 50 Bowdoin St , Dorchester, Mass. 
EAST BOSTON O'CONNOR. John J., M.A. 1931 12 Wordsworth, East Boston, Mass. 
EAST TAUNTON COYLE, James P., MJL 1921 c-o Caswell School, East Taunton, Mass. 
FALLETVEE BURNS. John F., A.B. 1928 31 Huard St, Fall River, Mass. 
COLLINS, Thomas S., Ph.B.Com. 1928 16G New Boston Road, Fall River, Mass. 
COOGAN, James H., Pb.B J.C. 1927 229 Bock, Fall Biver, Mass. 
O-NEIL, •William F., B.C.S. 1932 899 Robeson St, Fall River, Mass. 
SEILLY. Frauds D . A.B. 1928 t3 Forest St, Fall River, Mass. 
WELSH, Frank B., LL3 . 1916 88 Pleasant St, Fall River, Mass. 
FARNAMUS CUKTIN. Andries A., B.C.S. 1934 Famamos, Mass. 
CURTIN. Egbert L., B.S. 1923 Famamus, Mass. 
FITCHBUEG GALLAGHER. Thomas F., A.B. 1876 S8 Ebn St, Rtchburg, Mass. 
LEAHY. Thomas F.. B.C.S. 1930 879 River St, Fitchhurg, Mass. 
McSIANUS, Donald F., A.B. 1932 29 Mechanic Ave., Fitchhurg, Mass. 
PHANEUP, Albert G., Ph.B.For. Com. 1934 3 Wood St, Fitchhurg, Mass. 
TULLY, Edward J., A.B. 1928 98 Prjchard St , Fitchhurg, Mass. 
FRAMINGHAM FBIEL, John H., A.B. 1933 223 Grant St. Framingham, Mass. 
NOONAN, Walter F., Ph.B.Com. 1932 1198 Worcester Boad, Framingham, Mass. 
GREAT BAERINGTON BURTON, John T., B.S.EJE, 1926 41 Pine St, Great Barrington, Mass. 
CONNORS, E. P., A.B. 1931 43 Castle St, Great Barrington, Mass. 
PAKRISH, Richard T., A.B. 1933 2225 Beal Ave., HJngham, Mass. 
HOLYOKE GARVEY. Charles A.. A.B.Phys.Ed. 1932 7 Glen St , Holyoke. Mass. 
O'CONNELL, Daniel J., Litt B. 1922 509 Hampden St, Holyoke, Mass. 
PADDEN, Henry M., Ph.B.For.Com. 1924 4 Brookline Ave., Holyoke, Mass. 
SHEA, John F., Ph.B. 1906, AM. 1908 90 Lexington Ave, Holyoke, Mass. 
SULLIVAN. John F., A.B. 1933 4 Elliott St, Holyoke, Mass. 
SULLIVAN, Joseph P., B.S. 1929 982 Hampden St , Holyoke, Mass. 
O'NEIL. Vincent D., A.B. 1932 365 Main St, Hyannis, Mass. 
JAMAICA PLAINS KELLY, Luke L., LL.B. 1916 32 Pioylston St, Jamaica Plains, Mass. 
LAWRENCE SECCARECCIO, James F.. B.S. 1932 157 Jackson St , Lawrence, Mass. 
LEE KELLY, Frank J., A.B. 1928 90 High St, Lee, Mass. 
O'BRIEN. James J., B.C.S. 1934 43 Water St., Lee, Mass. 
LINCOLN 

DEVOTO. Florian B., LL.B. '76. A.B. '79, c-o Bernard Devoto, M.S. '80, AM. '81 Lincoln, Mass. 
LOWELL CRAWFORD, Frauds T.. A.B. 1934 261 Foster St, Lowell, Mass. 
LEONARD, Russell J., B.C.S. 1934 418 High St, Lowell, Mass. 
McMANMON, John V., B.SJVgric 1928 Lowell, Mass. 
MdlANMON, T. Arthur, A3 . 1931 
P. O. Box 794, Lowell, Mass. 
aiURPHY. John D., A.B. 1928 218 Gibson St, Lowell, Mass. 
LYNN CODY. John F., iLA. 1928 37 Elm St, Lynn, Mass. 
EISENllANN. Frederick L.. A.B. 1932 177 Beacon Hill Ave., Lynn, Mass, 
HcCARTY. Ricard W„ Ph.B.Com. 1922 70 Broad St, Lynn, Mass. 
MORAN. John V , Ph.B.Com. 1930 17 Bloomfield, Lynn, Mass. 
MALDEN FARRELL, Dr. Marcus E., B.S. 1928 39 Rockland Ave., Suite 12. Maiden, Mass. 
SIANSFIELD NOONAN. Harold L„ A.B. 1934 Pleasant St, Mansfield, Mass. 
MARBLEHEAD ROY. James C, A.B. 1929 24 Weldron St , Marhlehead. Mass. 
MEDFOBD CROWLEY, Gerald J., A.B. 1929 481 Fellsway West, Medford, Mass. 
HANLEY, John J., A.B. 1934 409 Salem St, Medford, Mass. 
MILFORD CENEDELLA, Jr.. Philip, A.B. 1928 68 School St . Miltord, Mass. 
GILFOYLE. Richard B , M.E. 1924 14 Pleasant St, Milford, Mass. 
HIGGIStON. James A., B.S.EE. 1931 39 Claffin St, Milford, Mass. 
KELLETT. Cyril F., C.E. 1922 40 West St, Milford, Mass. 
O'SULLIVAN. Edward V., A.B. 1932 18 Taylor St , Milford, Mass. 
NEEDHAM BAKER, Edward J., C.B. 1923 20 Washington Ave., Needham, Mass. 
NEW BEDFORD GLENNON, Joseph R., B.C.S. 1934 679 Cottage St, New Bedford, Mass. 
SULLIVAN. John B , LL.B. 1927 732 County St, New Bedford, Mass. 
BAINE, Charles F.. os. 1920, el. 1925 164 Langdon St, Newton, Mass. 
DUNN. Richard J., LL.B. 1918 11 Elmote St, Newton Center, Mass. 
TEEVENS. John G, A.B. 1932 1367 Walnut St . Newton Highlands, Mass. 
NO. AGAWAM CONSOLATI Francis A., B.S.E.E. 1932 57 Cooley St, No. Agawam, Mass. 
BOULAHAN. Michael L , B.S.E.E. 1932 72 Cooler St, No. Agawam, Mass. 
NORTHAMPTON SULLIVAN. Donald D , B.C.S. 1930 41 Arlington St, Northampton, Mass. 
NORTH ANDOVER DOOLEY. James R., LL.B. 1922 368 Main St . North Andover, Mass. 
NORTH ATTLEBORO McCABE, Joseph A., A.B. 1933 25 Eddy St, North Attleboro. Mass. 
PITTSFIELD DOELL, Philip E , B.S.Ch.E. 1927 251 Second St, Pittsfield, Mass. 
FOLEY. Jr., James F.. A.B. 1927 31 Chickering St, Pittsfield, Mass. 
LARKIN. Arthur E , M.A. 1932 
Y. M. C. A , Pittsfield, Mass. 
NESBIT. Robert J , B.C.S. 1933 68 Commonwealth, Pittsfield, Mass 
SOMERVILLE DESMOND. Joseph L., C.E. 1924 12 Norwood Ave.. Somerville, Mass. 
MAGUIRE. Charles, A.B. 1927 432 Midford St, Somerville, Mass. 
MAGUIRE. James H , A3 . 1926 432 Midford St, Somerville, Mass. 
SOUX'U BOSTON COLUNS. Hon. Edward D , LL3 . 1903 502 E. Broadway. South Boston, Mass. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
SLATTERY, J. M., A.B. 1931 226 I, St., South Boston, Mass. 
SODTHBKIDGE McGRATH, Harold P.. A.B. 1927 27 Everett St., Soothbridsre, Mass. 
SPRINGFIELD BBESNAHAN. James D., A.B. 1930 268 Pearl St., Sprin|>field, Mass. EGAN. John F., Ph.B.For.Com. 1934 62 Kimberly Ave., Springfield, Mass. 
GhYSS. Edward J., B.S.Chem. 1911 94 Maple St., Springfield, Mass. 
GLYNN, Gcorse H., B.S. 1924 326 Central St, Springfield, Mass. 
GRANFIELD, Patrick K. LL.B. 1923 254 Franklin St., Springfield, Moss. 
GRANFIELD, •William J.. LL.B. 1913 1200 Main St., Springfield, Mass. 
HURLEY, "William A., LL.B. 1928 70 Montrose St , Springfield, Mass. 
KANE, Michael G., LL.B. 1923 State BIdg., Springfield, Moss. 
O'CONNOR, James P., A.B. 1932 775 White St, Springfield, Mass. 
SULLIVAN. Austin F., A.B. 1933 14 School St, Springfield, Mass. 
SULLIVAN. John B., LL.B. 1927 33 Hawthorne S.t., Springfield, Mass. 
SWAMPSC01T BROWN, •William M, Ph.B.Com. 1931 91 Farragut Road, Swampscott, Mass. 
TAUNTON COHEN. Manrice, A.B. 1927 32 N. Pleasant St, Taunton, Mass. 
•WEBSTER HAND, Dr. Francis J„ B.S. 1930 Brandon Iload, 'Webster. Mass. 
•WESTFIELD FERRITER, Thomas P., B.S. 1930 10 Lincoln St., •Westfleld, Mass. 
HINCHEY, Timothy K.. A.B. 1930 Westfield, Mass. 
JACHYM, Joseph G., A.B. 1929 14 State St., 'Westfield, Mass. 
WOBUEN BUENNAN, Robert J., A.B. 1929 576 Main St, '\Voburn, Mass. 
MURR.AY. James H., Ph.B.P.Com, 1931 21 Eaton St. 'Wobam, Mass. 
•WORCESTER ANDERSON, Dr. Edward N., B.S. 1922 Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mass. 
BUTLER, Jr.. Edward J.. B.C.S. 1934 9 Dix St., Worcester, Mass. 
DWYER, Thomas F.. M.E. 1902 2 Thaj-er Court, Worcester, Mass. 
HILL, John J., A.B. 1930 115 West St, Worcester, Mass. 
McGAULEY. Edward J.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 30 Tirrell St , Worcester, Mass. 
MONAHAN. Jr., Charles F., A.B. 1930 23 Germain St, Worcester, Mass. 
MONAHAN, Robert J., A.B. 1933 23 Germain St, Worcester, Mass. 
SHEAN, Hobort P., Ph.B.Com. 1931 14 Monroe Ave., Worcester, Mass. 
S3IITH, Joseph A.. M.A, Boy Guid. 1934 5S4 Cambridge St , 'Worcester, Mass. 
MICHIGAN 

..VDRLAN COONEY. Robert K., A.B. 1927 Hotel Lenawee, Adrian, Mich. 
ALPENA DOUVILLE, Howard A., A.B. 1933 124 Miller St , Alpena, Mich. 
LeBLANC, Ivan J.. LL.B. 1929 808 River St. Alpena, Mich. 
McDOUGALL. Patrick S.. A.B. 1929 131 E. Fletcher Ave.. Alpena. Mich. 
MURCH. Orville. A.B. 1928 114 W. Lewis St, Alpena. Mich. 
O'DONNELL. Dr. F. J., os. 1915, el. 1927 Alpena, Mich. 
ANN ARBOR CONUN, John H., A.B. 1930 629 Forest Ave., Ann Arbor. Mich. 
HALLER. George D.. Ph.BJoum. 1919 1411 Ferdon Road, Ann Arhor. Mich. 
JACKSON, Dr. Robert L.. B.S. 1930 S t Joseph's Hospital, Ann Arbor, Mich. 
STAGE. Arthur W., Litt. B. 1S96 1024 Baldwin. Ann Arbor, Mich. 
SUTTON, Deon B.. A.B. 1931 710 Lawrence St, Ann Ajbor, Mich. 
BARK RTVER GAUTHIER, John H., B.C.S. 1930 Bark River, Mich. 
BATTLE CREEK BAUJt, Henry P., os. 1928, el. 1932 129 Cherry St, Battle Creek, Mich. 
BAUSI, Joseph E., A.B. 1929 129 Cherry St, Battle Creek, Mich. 
SrURRAY, Francis L., B.SJI.E. 1932 90 Woodward Ave., Battle Creek, Mich, 
REEDY, Joseph B., A.B. 1930 Battle Creek Enquirer, Battle Creek, Mich. 
STEINBACHEB, Harold E.. LL.B. 1930 29 W. Goguac St , Battle Creek, Mich. 
PREECE, John D., B.S. 1930 Battle Creek. Mich. BAY CITY BRYSSELBOUT, Paul A., B.S.Arch. 1929 245 N. Madison Blvd., Bay City, Mich. 
DONNELLY, Thomas L., C.E. 1904 915 N. Van Buren St, Bay City, Mich. 
GODDEYNE, Joseph C, A.B. 1911 1700 Third St, Bay City, Mich. 
LAFRAIMBOISE, Paul H., B.C.S.For.Coni. '34 915 Fifth Ave., Bay City, Mich. 
MARTIN, Charles M.. Ph.B.Com. 1923 503 E. Clara St, Bay City, Mich. 
MEAGHER, John C , B.S.M.E. 1929 2013 Sixth St , Bay City, Mich. 
NIEDZIELSKI, Clemens F., Ph.B.Com. 1934 1215 Lafayette Ave., Bay City, Mich. 
WENDLAND, Paul E., Ph.B.Com. 1928 
H. G. Wendland & Co., Inc., Bay City, Mich. 
WENDLAND, Robert J., os. 1912, el. 1931 
H. G. Wendland & Co., Inc., Bay City, Mich. 
WILKIN, William C, el. 1915 1402 Ststh St, Bay City, Mich. 
BENTON HARBOR DEITLE, Frank A., M.E. 1926 Napier Ave., Benton Harbor, Mich. 
DOUGAN. Richard S., os. 1894, el. 1931 Chevrolet Sales Room, Benton Harbor, Mich. 
DUERR, Clayton S., B.S. 1932 144 Cataipa Ave.. Benton Harbor, Mich. 
FITZSIMJIONS, Robert J., B.C.S. 1933 848 Ogden St, Benton Harbor, Mich. 
HORKA, Henry T., A.B. 1930, LL.B. 1932 303 Fidelity BIdg., Benton Harbor, Mich. 
BIRMINGHAM CONBOY, John Louis, A.B. 1927 615 Oak St., Birmingham, Mich. 
HECK. Kenneth I.. B.C.SJ'or.Com. 1929 984 Ridgedale, Birmingham, Mich. 
SAGE, Fred, os. 1910 Cranbrook Hoad, Birmingham, Mich. 
STILIAUN. Barry B., B.C.S. 1924 Moran St, Lathmp Townsite, Birmingham, Micfa. 
BUCHANAN DESENBEBG. ^W. R., A.B. 1931. LL.B. 1933 212 W. Front St. Buchanan. Mich. 
GROSS. S. R.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 210 S. Portage, Bnchanan, JGch. 
LAKIB, Hex E.. LL.B. 1909 Buchanan. Mich. 
LANDSMAN. Philip C.. LL.B. 1929 
Buchanan, Mich. 
WHITE. Alfred B.. B.S.IIE. 1932. M.S. 1933 116 S. Detroit St . Bnchanan. Mich. 
WILSON. C. J.. B.S.Chera.B. 1931. M.S. 1934 111 Main St. Bnchanan, Mich. 
CADILLAC SHLTNER. Charles K . A.B. 1931 443 E. Division St. Cadillac Mich. 
PLUNKETT. Devere T.. A.B. 1930 817 Wood St. Cadillac Mich. 
CALUJtET CUDDIHY. Edward F.. Ph.B.C. 1925 Krst National Bank. Calumet. Mich. 
CEDAIfWIiE KRAUS. Jacob W.. LL.B. 1899 Les Cheveaux Islands. Cedorville, Mich. 
CHARLOTTE STRONG, James M.. B.K 1931 424 Lovett St, Charlotte, Mich. 
CONSTANTINE DA'VIS, Prank Wolf, LittB. 1895 Box 307 Constantine, Mich. 
DEARBORN COURTNEY, John •W., os. 1924, el. 1930 Lock Box 404, Dearborn, Mich. 
POLHABS, Edmund A., Ph.B.F.C. 1925 7830 Pinehnrst, Dearborn, Mich. 
RENIES, Rem! O.. B.S.CJE. 1932 7810 Neckel St , Dearborn, Mich. 
WAGNER, Milton J.. B.SJhysja. 1928 Apt 7, 851 S. Oakwood, Dearborn, Mich. 
DBTEOIT ACKERMAN, Edward L., A.B. 1933 3009 Cadillac Blvd., Detroit Mich. 
BEATTIE, Joseph A., MJl. 1927 2129 Franklin St, Detroit Mich. 
BITTNER, Carl, OS. 1924, el. 1932 461 W. Savannah, Detroit, Mich. 
BOLGER. Frank G., Ph.B.Cbm. 1926 13616 Washburn, Detroit Mich. 
BOWER, Seward E., A.B. 1926 Detroit News, Detroit. Mich. 
BRANEN, George, 59 Seward, Detroit Mich. 
BREEN. John F., A.B. 1933 8112 Eercheval Ave., Detroit, Mich. 
BBENNAN, John W., B.SJIJL '27, MJi. '30 American Blower Corp., Hofman BIdg., Detroit, Mich. 
BRO^VN. Dr. Harvey F., B.S. 1924 4126 W. Six Mile Road, Detroit, Mich. 
BULLARO, Theodore B., os. 1924 60 Clairmount N. E., Detroit Mich. 
CHESNOW, Louis, BJlrch. 1923 2212 E. Lamed, Detroit, Mich. 
CHRISTE, Kusseil F.. A.B. 1929 1239 Manistique Ave., Detroit, Mich. 
COLLINS, Joseph J., LL.B. 1911 5919 Cass, Detroit, Mich. 
COMAN, Thomas W., A.B. 1925 c-o Associated Press, Detroit Mich. 
CRAINE, Clyde P., AS . 1934 19511 Lowell Drive, Detroit Mich. 
CROWE, Edward V., A3 . 1926 1496 Campbell Ave., Detroit, Mich. 
SXJPPLESIENT TO THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUMNUS 
CULLEN. Harry W.. LL-B. 1912 2071 Edison Ave.. Detroit, Hich. 
CDNNINGHAIlI. Raymond C. A.B. 1925 Webster Hall & Cass Ave., Detroit, Midi. 
DAVIS, Albert F.. B.S.M.E. 192S 4107 Pingree Ave., Detroit. Mich. 

DeGREE, Edward G.. LL.B. 1923 31-56 Penobscot BIdg., Detroit, Midi. 
DOOLEV. P.111I J., Ph.B.C. 1925 6202 Hamilton Ave., Detroit. Mich. 
DORAIS, Charles E.. LL.B. 1914 Athletic Director, University o£ Detroit, Detroit, Mich. 

ENGEL, Harry, A.B. 1928 2611 Gladstone, Detroit. Mich. 
ESCHER. Edward P.. C.E. 1909 1549 Edison Ave., Detroit, Mich. 
ESCHER, •William F.. B.S.M.E. 1934 1549 Edison Ave., Detroit, Mich. 
FELDMAN, Theodore F., A.B. 1934 3514 Burns Ave., Detroit, Mich. 
FINN, Enssell G., A.B. 1912 584 Arden Park, Detroit. Mich. 
FISHER. John F.. B.C.S. 1934 5644 Stanton Ave.. Detroit. Mich. 
FOLEY. Daniel E.. LI..B. 1911 1039 Penobscot Bids., Detroit. Mich. 
FORTIER. Al. OS. 1929. el. 1932 Chevrolet Motors Co.. A 113. General Motors Bldg.. Detroit. Mich. 
FURY. L. "Williara. M.A. Boy Guid. 1927 13641 Dexter Blvd.. Detroit. Midi. 
GABGARO, Ernest J.. A.B. 1933 19435 Canterbury Drive, Detroit, Mich. 

GAUELER, Francis O.. OS. 1901 S Lamed, W., Detroit. Mich. 
HANLON, Jr.. George T.. os. 1913, el. 192S 8S16 Second St, Detroit, Mich. 
HAVEN. Clarence B.. LL.B. 192S 9810 Lawton Ave.. Detroit, Mich. 
HIGGINS, John T.. os. 1924 1632 Buhl Bldg.. Detroit. Mich. 
HUBERT, Urban, OS. 1922 7439 Woodrow 'Wilson Ave.. Detroit, Mich. 

INSLEY. Dr. Stanley W.. B.S. 1921 674 Maccabee BIdg., Detroit, Mich. 
JEHLE, Prands J™ B.S.Phys.Ed. 1934 9184 Mason Place. Detroit, Mich. 
KAISER, Charles H.. B.S.1LB. 1929 17190 Washburn. Detroit, Mich. 

KARL. William C. B.S.M.E. 1931 Hannan Memorial Y.M.C.A.. Detroit, Mich. 
EEISER. Raymond J., A.B. 1926 Alden Park Manor, E. JeiTcrson Ave., Detroit, Uich. 

KELLY, Emmett J., LL.B. 1919 2403 Krst Nafl Bank Bldg., Detroit. Mich. 
KELLY, Harry F., LL.B. 1917 2428 First Nat'l Bank Bide.. Detroit, Mich. 
KELLY, Baymond J., os. 1913, el. 1916 City Hall. Detroit, Mich. 
KNAUS, Malcolm F.. B.S.E.E. 1926 16803 Turner St . Detroit. Mich. 

KOENIG. Charles W.. A.B. 1928 517 Harper Ave.. Detroit, Mich. 
KOHS. George W.. B.C.S. 1934 539 W. Grand Blvd., Detroit, Mich. 
LaJOIE, Ernest P , LL.B. 1915 18050 Wlldemere. Detroit. Mich. 
LERMAN, amon E., B.S. 1932 9805 Goodwin Ave.. Detroit. Mich. 
ULUG, P. Norman, Ph.B.Com. 1930 2446 Penobscot Bldg., Detroit, Mich. 
LINK, Fred E.. B.SJJ.E. 1926 1771 Balmoral Drive, Detroit. Mich. 

LUKASZEmCZ. Vincent S.. LL.B. 1929 7528 Michigan Ave.. Detroit. Mich. 
SIALONE. L. P.. OS. 1914 16569 Lawton. Detroit. Mich. 
MARCUS. Edward N„ Ph.B. 1916 604 Boyer Bldg.. I>etroit. Mich. 
McCLARNON. Edmund. P., LL.B. 1928 14934 Ward, Detroit Mich. 
McCORSnCK. Joseph J., LL.B. 1930 11431 Mack Ave., Detroit, Mich. 
McCULLOUGH, •miliam H.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 16559 Kentucky Ave., Detroit Mich. 
McKENNA. Walter P.. HJi.. 1927 Director of Extension Work. Boy Scout Headquarters. Detroit. Mich. 
MCLAUGHLIN. Thomas A.. LL.B. 1916 1965 Michigan, Detroit, Mich. 
McLEOD. Kenneth J , A.B. 1932 1340 E. Grand Blvd., Detroit, Mich. 
McNULTY. James M., B.E. 1919 700 Antoinette St.. Detroit Mich. 
MOLZ. Charles O., Ph.BJoum. 1924 Editorial Dcpt, Detroit News, Detroit, Mich. 
MOKAN, J. Bell, os. 1904 643 Penobscot Bldg., Detroit Mich. 
MORITZ, Dr. Henry C. Ph.C. 1911 1050 David AVhitney Bldg., Detroit Mich. 
MORTENSEN, Jr., Walter A., Ph.B.Com. 1932 1508 Atkinson Ave., Detroit, Mich. 
MURPHY, Edwin, Ph.B.Journ. 1924 Editorial Dept, Detroit Mirror, Detroit Mich. 
NEYDON. R. L., B.CSJor.Com. 1931 136 Lakewood Blvd., Detroit, Mich. 
NORTON, Joseph J., LittB. 1924 1030 E. Hancock. Detroit Mich. 
NULTY. Leo C. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1933 900 Philadelphia. Detroit Mich. 
O'BRIEN. James F., C.B, 1913 1S905 Holmur Ave., Detroit. Mich. 
O'KEEFE. Don P., os. 1903, el. 1925 Chevrolet Motors Co., General Motors Bldg., Detroit, Mich. 
O'NEILL, Edward T.. Ph.B.Com. 1926 9-140 Dcvter. Detroit Mich. 
PHILIP, Philip J.. S3I.E. 1912 720 Pcmberton Road. Grosse Pointe, Detroit Mich. 
POWELL. Robert D , A.B. 1933 758 Longfellow Ave.. Detroit Mich. 
QUISH, Francis E.. Com. 1911 Burroughs Publications. Burroughs & Second Blvd., Detroit Mich. 
RASHID. P. P., A.B. 1932 3005 Longfellow Ave., Detroit. Mich. 
EEARDON, George L.. Ph.B.C. 1924 Probate Court, Wayne County, 102S E. Forest Ave., Detroit Mich. 
RIST, Paul E., B.S.E.E. 1930 14854 Tracey, Detroit Mich. 
ROWEN. W. B., B.C.S. 1931 13200 LaSalle Blvd.. Detroit Mich. 
RYAN. Alfred C Ph.B.Com. 1920 154 Bagley. Detroit. 3Iich. 
SCHAEFER, Gilbert W., Ph-BJonCom. 1926 Aaron de Roy Motor Car Co.. Woodward Ave. & Garfield. DetroU, Mich. 
SHEEHE. George B., A.B. 1925 4462 Woodward Ave., Detroit Mich. 
SHEERAN. Daniel H., A.B. 1927 4094 Euclid Ave., W., Detroit Mich. 
SHIFFER, Daniel A.. B.C.S. 1926 1674 Atkinson, Detroit, Mich. 
SIMONIN. Joseph R.. B.S.M.E. 1928 483 Chalmers, Detroit Mich. 
SITEE. Joseph P.. LL.B. 1932 3364 Ijawton. Detroit, Mich. 
SLAGGERT, Alfred N.. LittlB. '21. M.A. '22 CO Worzer & Wurzer. Buhl Bldg., Detroit, Mich. 
SMITH, James I., E.E. 1924 2000 Second A%e., Detroit, Mich. 
STACE. Vincent A.. B.S.C.E. 1928 Apt 206. 120 Seward Ave.. Detroit, Mich. 
STACKPOOLE, John M., A.B. 1929 552 Boston Blvd.. R. Detroit. Mich. 
STENIUS. Charles Arthur. Ph.B.Cbm. 1928 2038 Delaware. Detroit, Mich. 
UHL. Frederick D.. B.C.S. 1925 8400 LaSallc Blvd.. Detroit Mich. 
VERBIEST, C. Marccllus. os. 1917 2253 Iroquois. Detroit, Mich. 
WEEKS. Edward J., os. 1909, el. 1925 465 Merrick Ave., Detroit, Mich. 
WIDER, Martin F., B.S.E.R 1931 4051 Vicksburg. Detroit. Mich. 
WURZER. Edward C C.E. 1903 9274 Wldemere Ave., Detroit Mich. 
WURZER, Louis C. LL.B. 1896 1632 Buhl Bldg.. Detroit, Mich, 
YOUNG. John J.. B.C.S. 1934 2H3 Pennsylvania Ave,, Detroit. Mich. . 
ZUBER. John H., B.C.S. 1931 4051 Vicksbors. Detroit Mich. 
DE WITT FAIVER. Kenneth E., E.E. 1924 De Wtt, Mich. 
DOWAGIAC FBONTCZAK. Marion J., A.B. 1930 Dowagiac. Mich. 
EAST GRAND RAPIDS 

McELWEE. John J.. A.B. 1933 537 Greenwood Ave., S. K, East Grand Rapids. Mich. 
EAST LANSING 

BACRKIAN. Charles W., LL.B. 1917 Michigan State College. Sast Lansing. Slich. 
SCSLES. John J.. M.E. 1908 605 Grove St. East Lansing. Mich. 
STACK. Joseph W.. B.S. 1915, M.S. 191S 1028 Chesterfield Parkway. East Lansing, Mich. 
ECORSE MONTIE. Kenneth L.. B.C.S. 1934 4151 W. Jefferson Ave.. Ecorse, Mich. 
ESCANABA 

BLOMSTROM. E. T.. .\.B. 1931 736 Lake Shore Drive. Escanaba. Mich. 
CLEARY, Gerald J.. Ph.B.Com. 1921 310 Lake Shore Drive. Escanaba. Mich. 
KENNELLY, John R. LL.B. 1925 127 S. Seventh St.. Escanaba. Mich. 
LESIMER, John A.. Ph.B. 1918 1110 Eighth Ave„ S.. Escanaba, Mich. 
FERNDALE PEPIN, Dona J.. R R 1914 1661 LeRoy Ave.. Femdale. Mich. 
FUNT KELLEGHAN, Joseph M.. A.B. 1930 1253 Broadway, Flint Mich. 
IbcDONALD, D. F., Ph.B.Com. 1931 1631 W. Court St. Flint Mich. 
MINARDO, William F.. B.S.PhysJM. 1932 902 Leith St, Flint Mich. 
PEARSON, James M., LL.B. 1926 411-12 Eresge Bldg., Flint, Mich. 
RANDALL, Thomas G.. Pb.B.Com. 1923 First Nat'l Bank & Trust Co.. Flint. Mich. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS SS 
RICHARDS, James S., A.B. 1932 3730 S. Saginaw St, Flint, Mich. 
ROTH, S. J., Ph.BJor.Com. 1931 3001 St. John St., Flint. Mich. 
RYAN, Vincent D. LIi.B. 1913 612 Genesee Bank Bide., Flint, Mich. 
TAECKENS, C. L.. A.B. 1931 710 Crapo St., Flint, Mich. 
FOWLEK COOK. Bruno C, B.S. 1924 Fowler, Mich. 
GRAND RAProS 
BOYLAND, J. F.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 720 .MaiUson Ave., S. £., Grand Rapids, Mich. 

BRENNAN. Edward E.. A.B. 1931 215 Brown St., Grand Kapids,. Mich. 
CARMODY, James A., Ph.B.Com. 1922 1353 Sherman St., Grand Itapids, Mich. 
DEEB, Joseph F., A.B. 1931, LL.B. 1933 600 Cambridge Blvd., S., Grand Rapids, Mich. 

OOTTERWEICH. William A., B.S.E.E. 1927 1023 Cooper, S. £., Grand Rapids, 3tich. 
FEKNELL, Edward G.. os. 1930, el. 1932 436 Cass Ave., S. E., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
FITZPATBICK, Georsc M., OS. 1919, el. 1925 1320 ^Sherman St., S. £., Grand Kapids, Mich. 
FLANAGAN, Paul E., B.S.Arch.E. 1932 634 l-ake Drive. S. E , Grand Rapids, Mich. 
GRAHASI, Robert F.. B.C.S. 192S 1416 Loinm St.. S. E., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
HILDING, Charles V., LL.B. 1902 Rcom 306. Grand Rapids National City Bunk Bids., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
JACKOBOICE, G. A.. A.B. 1931 136 Mt. Vernon Ave., Grand Rapids. Mich. 
JANISZEWSKI, Andrew C, Ph.B.Com. 1934 1031 W. Fulton St., Grand Rapids. Mich. 
KELLEY, Joseph F.. LL.B. 1934 
K. K 3, Grand Rapids, Mich. 

KELLEY, James W., B.C.S. 1929 
K. K D. No. 3. Grand Rapids, Mich. 

LEACH. Edwin E.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1929 641 E. Leonard St., Grand Rapids. Mich. 
LEACH, Floris D.. Ph.B.ror.Com. 1929 1116 Cooper, S. E., Grand Kapids, Mich. 
LEVANDOSKI, Arnold R., LL.B. 1930 16 S. Valley Ave., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
LDDWIC. Georsc E., Ch.E. 1925 32S Glenhaven Ave., N. W., Grand Rapids. Mich. 
LUDWIG. Gerald C.. B.S.M.E. 192S 233 Sunset Ave., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
McDERMOTT, James E.. B.S.C.E. 1930 321 Benjaminc Ave., S. E., Grand Rapids. Mich. 
MERDZINSKI, H. L., A.B. 1931 639 11th St., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
MOHLER. Dennison D.. B.SJIE. 1932 940 Madison Ave., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
NACHTEGALL, Alfred C., BJiTch. 1926 143 Carlton Ave., S. E., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
NORMAN, Louis W., Ph.B.Com. 1928 1009 Cass Ave., S. E., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
O'BRIAN. •William C . RE . 1917 2256 Enslewood St.. Grand Rapids. Mich. 
RICH, James E., B.C.S. 1931 2042 Derwood, Grand Rapids, Mich. 
ROACH. Gerald E.. LL.B. 1929 TIO N. Lafayette Ave.. Grand Rapids, Mich. 
ROACH, Samuel Jerome, A.B. 1933. M.A. 1934 710 N. Lafayette Ave., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
ROACH, Thomas G., LL.B. 1934 710 N. Lafayette Ave.. Grand Rapids. Mich. 

RUSCHE. Henry J.. B.Arch. 1921 16 Portsmouth Place. N. E., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
SLACK, Vernon J., Ph.BJor.Com. 1930 2025 Stafford. Grand Rapids. Mich. 

SULLIVAN, Henry M., B.C.S. 1930 142S Cass Ave., S. B., Grand Rapids. Mich. 
WALSH, Leo W., A.B. 1928 521 Sheldon Ave.. Grand Rapids, Mich. 
GROSSB ILE REATOIE, William J.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1930 929 Cow. Grossc He. Mich. 
GROSSE POINTE LACGHNA. Frederick J.. Ph.B.Com. 1933 1039 Devonshire Road. Grosse Pointe, Mich. 
LAUGHNA, John P., A.B. 1932, LL.B. 1934 1039 Devonshire Road. Grosse Pointe, Mich. 
LORANGEB. Guy L., A.B. 192S 1022 Yorkshire Road, Grosse Pointe. Mich. 
WHALEN, Dr. Neil J., B.S. 1918 529 Lakeland, Grosse Pointe, Mich. 
GROSSE POINTE FARMS 

BEAUPRE. Francis A.. B.C.S. 1931 216 Kirby Road, Grosse Pointe Farms. Mich. 
BEAUPRE, Russell J., B.C.S. 1931 216 Kirby Road. Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich. 
HAMTRAMCK KARNES. Edward P.. M.A. 1931 3056 Hurley Ave., Hamtramck, Mich. 
KOPEK, Henry S., B.S. 1931 2925 Evalinc Ave., Hamtramck, Mich. 
HANCOCK CONDON, J. Marr, A.B. 1931 1143 Quincy St.. Hancock. Mich. 
RUPPE. Arthur T.. B.S.E.K 1933 315 Reservation, Hancock. Midi. 
RUPPE. Joseph P.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1930 Hancock, Mich. 
HASTINGS FELDPAUSCH. Roman C.. Ph.B.Com. 1926 1120 S. Church SL. Hastings. Mich. 
HESSEL FENLON. Ned H.. A.B. 1927 Hessel. Mich. 
HIGHLAND PARK 5IANNING. John P.. A.B. 1930 16530 Indiana. Hichland Park. Mich. 
SPRENGEB, Carl B.. M.E. 1925 8127 Robson, Highland Park, Mich. 
HUBBELL RHEAUJIE, Eugene W., B.C.S-For.Com. 1929 Ilubbell. Mich. 
HURON DRAVES, Edward F., B.S.Phar. 1931 103S E. Huron St.. Huron, Jlich. 
IRON MOUNTAIN B.4.RTH0L0MEW, Norman C, Ph.B. 1915 225 Cleveland Ave., Iron Mountain, Mich. 
DUNDON, Edward J., Ph.B. 1922, LL.B. 1922 Attorney-at-Law, Iron Mountain, Mich. 
KHOURY, Michael J., LL.B. 1929 Jacobs Bldg., Iron Mountain, Mich. 
IRONWOOD LEMMER. Victor F., A.B. 1926 Box 61. Ironwood. Mich. 
McKEVlTT. John B.. B.S.C.E. 1927 626 Sutherland Ave.. Ironwood. Mich. 
McKEVITT, Thomas L., A.B. 1932, LL.B. 1934 203 Mansfield St., Ironwood, Mich. 
NOLAN. Theodore A.. A.B. 1933 302 Arch St.. Ironwood. Mich. 
O'NEILL. Owen J.. A.B. 1933 414 Lowell St.. Ironwood. Mich. 
SULLIVAN, John C. Min.E. 1922 c-o Newport Heists, Ironwood, Mich. 
ITHACA ARNOLD, Robert L.. LL.B. 1930 Ithaca. Hicfa. 
JACKSON CARRINGER, Edward J., Ph.B.For.Com. 192S 902 First St., Jackson, Mich. 
DUCEY, Waller J., B.E. 1917 339 W. Morrell St., Jackson, Mich. 
HARTMAN, Cyril J.. EJl. 1923 612 Webb St.. Jackson, Mich. 
HATCH, Harold P., Ph.B.Com. 1927 819 E. Ganson St.. Jackson. Mich. 
HILL, Jr.. Lyman H.. B.C.S. 1929 
R. F. D. 6. Jackson. Mich. 

RUSSELL, Leon T., E.E. 1917 117 N. Thompson Ave., Jackson. Mich. 
TOMPKINS. John J.. A.B. 1934 944 Chittock Ave., Jackson, Mich. 
WISDA, L. J.. B.C.S. 1931 1017 £. Ganson St.. Jackson. Mich. 
KALAMAZOO BLANEY, Joseph A., B.C.S. 1932 301 Douglas Ave., Kalamazoo. Mich. 
BROWN. Clarence H., CJ!. 1918 1104 S. Park Ave.. Kalamazoo, Mich. 
BURNS. Dr. John T.. LittB. 1913 601 S. Burdick St.. Kalamazoo. Mich. 
GAUDIE. G. D., B.C.S. 1931 S2S Walnut, Kalamazoo, Mich. 
SAGE. Edward J.. A.B. 1933 1028 Portage, Kalamazoo. Mich. 
WALL. William F., Ph.B. 1917 
R. R. No. 6, West Lake. Kalamazoo. Mich. 

KEEGO HARBOR CRAUSSEE. Ephrem L.. M.& 1924 Box 224. Keeso Harbor. Mich. 
LANSING DAVEY. Joseph F.. A.B. 1933 1001 E. Michigan Ave.. Lansing. Mich. 
HUGHES. Koliert W., Ph.B.Com. 1929 919 Wisconsin Ave., Lansing, Mich. 
KIRBY, Maurice D., LL.B. 1894 417 S. Logan St., Lansing, Mich. 
LAWLER. Russel A.. A.B. 1932 900 W. Michigan St.. Lansing. Mich. 
LINN. Gerald B.. B.S.C.B. 1932 621 W. Genesee St.. Lansing. Mich. 
O'CONNOR. Charles J.. A.B. 1933 120 E. Kalamazoo. Lansing. Mich. 
STAELENS, Louis O., B.C.S. 1933 1602 Pennsylvania Ave.. Lansing. Mich. 
LAPEER HALPIN. George, os. 1901, el. 1927 Lnpeert Mick. 
LOWELL AREHART, George A., B.C.S.For.Cbm. 1932 Lowell, Mich. 
ROSEWARNE. Vassar B.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 553 Virgennus. Lowell. Mich. 
LUDINGTON CARTIER. D. E.. B.S. 1892 
P. O. Box 31. Lndington, Mich. 

CARTIER, Bay. M.E. 1913 200 W. Lndington Ave.. Ludington. Mich. 
CARTIER, Hon. Warren A., C.E. "87. B.S. '87 409 £. Ludington Ave.. Ludington. Mich. 
CRONIN. Edward J.. Ph.B.F.C. 1930 310 W. Ludington Ave.. Ludington. Mich. 
MARQUETTE ARTZ. Alfred J.. A.B. 1933 146 Prospect St, Marquette, Mich. 
MARSHALL WARD, Robert M., A.B. 1928, LL.B. 1931 721 W. Mansion, Marshall, Mich. 
SXJPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALXJMNUS 
MENOMINEE CLANCY. William J.. LL-B. 1924 1304 Sheridan Road, Menominee, Midi. 
LAUERHAK, Henry J., 1327 Slieridan Road. Menominee. Midi. 
LEISEN. Jacob L., B.C.S. 1933 414 Duniap Ave., Menominee, Midi. 
RIGLEY, Robert l... A.B. 1930 Jordan Collese, Menominee, Midi. 
MICHIGAN CENTER MAINO, Carlton B., Grad. Phar. 1923 Michigan Center. Mich. 
MONROE BAIRLEV. Joseph J.. B.S.C.E. 192S 122 Washington St., Monroe. Mich. 
GOLDEN, ClM-ton C. LL.B. 1906 Monroe. Micb. 
GUETTLEB, George W.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 511 Harrison St., Monroe. Mich. 
KIRBY. Arthur C. os. 1918. cl. 1926 Box 47. Monroe, Mich. 
NAVARRE, Joseph A., A.B. 1926 27 E. Front St., Monroe, Mich. 
BEADY. Francis T.. LL.B. 1930 733 Cass St., Monroe, Mich. 
STEINER, Arthur E., C.B. 1904 420 N. Monroe St., Monroe, Mich. 
MT. CLEMENS BREHLER, Joseph C. B.S.Min.E. 1933 S7 New, Mt. Clemens, Mich. 
DUPBAY, Waller J., B.S.E.E. 1934 56 Welts St., Mt. Clemens, Mich. 
TROMBLEY, Malcolm E.. A.B. '30. LL.B. '32 SO Lincoln Ave., Mt. Clemens. Mich. 
YATES, James J., B.S.E.E. 1929 233 N. Gratiot, Mt. Clemens, Mich. 
MUSKEGON BIGGE. J. Jerome, B.C.S.For.Com. 1928 Panyard Piston Ring Co., Musicegon, Mich. 
DRENAN, Prands M., LL.B. 1929 408 Monroe Ave., Muskegon, Mich. 
GIROUX. Richard W.. A.B. 1931 1329 Sixth St., Musicegon Heigbts. Micb. 
RILEY, Joseph T., LL.B. 1918 Union Nat'l Bank Bldg., Muskegon, Mich. 
SANFORD, Joseph F.. LL.B. 1921 Nat'l Xtumberman's Bank Bldg., Muskegon, Mich. 
NEW BUFFALO WITTENBURG, William F., B.C.S. 1933 New Buffalo, Mich. 
NILES ABRAHAtI, A. J.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 
R. R. 6, Box 174, Mies. Micb. 

AUGUSOVITZ, Ralph, B.S. 1930 9 S. St. Joseph St., Niles, Mich. 
BURNS. John F., A.B. 1932 26 N. Third St., Niles. Mich. 
CLINNIN. Walter A., os. 1911 104 N. Lincoln St., Niles, Mich. 
COOK, Anthony S., A.B. 1932 618 N. Fourth St, Niles. Mich. 
COOK, Leo K., A.B. 1931. LL.B. 1933 19 State St., Niles, Mich. 
DOWNEY. William H., MJi. 1928 1615 Oak St., Niles. Mich. 
FARRELL, Thomas M.. LL.B. 1929 504 N. Fifth St, Niles. Mich. 
GRATHWOLD, Casper R.. LL.B. 1929 434 S t Joseph Ave., Niles, Mich. 
GRIMES, Thomas R., B.S. 1934 29 Eiver St, Niles, Mich. 
HESS. Clarence J.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1933 915 N. Third St. Niles. Mich. 
MUCH. John W.. B.Arch. 1932 921 Oak St, Niles. Mich. 
JONES. George W., LL.B. 1927 
R. B. 1, Box 70, Niles, Mich. 

KENNV. James B.. B.S. 1933 22 S. Lincoln St, Niles, Mich. 
KENNY, Joseph E., Ph.B.For.Com. 1932 22 S. Lincoln St, Niles, Mich. 
KRINOWITZ, Maurice J.. B.S.Phar. 1933 
W. Clay St, Niles, Mich. 

McBRIDE, Herschel V.. B.S.C.E. 1933 1609 Superior St. Niles. Mich. 
McCONNELL, Kenneth J.. LL.B. 1934 544 Cedar St, Niles, Mich. 
MONTAGUE. Charles M.. S.Com. 1894 Niles, Mich. 
MORLEY. Arthur L.. B.S. 1929 1437 Broadway, Niles. Mich. 
WALKER. Gordon, os. 1925. el. 1932 
R. R. 3. Niles. Midi. 

WALKER, L. S., MJL 1931 1624 Hickory St. Niles. Mich. 
WATERSON. Robert R.. A.B. 1932 LL.B. 1934 103 N. Third St. Niles. Mich. 
NORWAY STEWART, .T«mcs P. LL.B. 1926 Norway. Mich. 
OWOSSO MULHALL, Joseph H., Ph.B.Com. 1929 1020 Adams St , Owosso, Mich. 
PONTIAC GAUKLER , Claire R.. S.Com. 1918 4 Franklin Hoad. Pontine. Mich. 
PAULI. Roy C. B.C.S. 1925 203 Judson St , Pontine, Mich. 
WATSON. Clinton H., A.B. 1932 63 Nelson St, Pontine, Mich. 
PORT HURON DoGURSE. Newell. LL.B. 1924 12-14 •White Block, Port Huron. Mich. 
LEAHY. M. K.. B.C.S. 1931 SSI Park St. Port Huron, Slich. 
O'SULLIVAN. ClifTord. LL.B. 1920 307-310 Federal Bank Bldg.. Port Huron, Mich. 
WEIL, Francis G., A.B. 1933 4948 Gratiot Port Huron, Mich. 
WITTLIFF, John S.. Ph.B.Com. 1932 812 Griswold, Port Huron. Mich. 
ROCHESTER DcBAEN'E, Edmond C. B.S.E.E. 1929 
403.W. Fifth St. Rochester, Mich. 

DcBAEN'E, Walter T„ B.C.S. 1931 403 W. Fifth St, Rochester, Mich, 
ROGERS cvn: VOGELHEIM, Karl L.. B.C.S. 1953 301 Michigan, Rogers City, Mich. 
ROYAL OAK DALTON. Carson E., Ph.BJ.Com. 1926 1302 Lyons, Royal Oak, Mich. 
SULLIVAN, James W„ B.C.S. 1930 403 Hawthorne, Royal Oak, Mich. 
SAGINAW BLANKE, John J., Ph.B.C. 1924 S17 S. Warren Ave., Saginaw, Mich. 
CATIZONE. Roy J.. B.S. 1932 1521 S. Michigan St, Saginaw, Midi. 
FREDERICK. John F.. A.B. 1928 701 Elizabeth St, Saginaw. Mich. 
FRISKE. Joseph A., os. 1925. el. 1932 60S Second National Bank Bldg.. Saginaw. Mich. 
HURLEY, William C. Ph^B.C. 1925 117 Cherry St, Sa^naw, Mich. 
KERNS. Edward A.. Ph.B.Com. 1934 225 N. Third St. Saginaw, Mich. 
LAPPIN. Harold V.. A.B. 1932 1031 S. Weadock Ave.. Saginaw, Mich. 
SCHLEGEL. Charles T.. A.B. 1928 . 1628 E. Genesee Ave., Saginaw, Mich. 
STRABLE, Lawrence t., Ph.B.Com. 1923 1560 Holland Ave., Saginaw, Mich. 
TATHAU, Joseph W.. A.B. 1926 Center Road. Saginaw, Micb. 
VAN AARLE. Thomas F.. M.E. 1921 Standard Oil Co., Saginaw, Mich. 
VERTACNIK, J. P.. A.B. 1931 1908 Hancock St, Saginaw, Mich. 
ST. JAMES LEFT, Gerald D., LL.B. 1926 S t James, Mich. 
ST. JOSEPH HATFIELD, Malcolm K.. Ph.B. 1927 
R. R. 2, Box 4, S t Joseph. Mich. 

HOLTON, Arthur P. F.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1928 C04 Central Ave., S t Joseph, Mich. 
LOPKER. Joseph L.. A.B.F.A. 1932 1611 Forres Ave., S t Joseph, Mich. 
McGRATH, Martin C. LL.B. 1912 712 Broad St., S t Jo!«ph, Mich. 
OTOOLE, Eugene J., B.S. 1920 321-325 State St. St Joseph, Mich. 
TREISEN, Cyril C, B.C.S. 1932 1309 Lake Blvd.. S t Joseph, Mich. 
THEISEN, Gerard C. B.C.S. 1932 1309 Lake Blvd.. S t Joseph, Mich. 
WEBER, Maurice A., os. 1924 Peoples State Bank Bldg.. S t Joseph. Mich. 
SAULTE STE. MARIE BOLGER. George E.. B.C.S. 1933 608 Kimball St. Sault Ste. Marie. Midi. 
SAWYER 

KASPER. Robert A., Ph.B. 1907, AM. 1908. Kasperidge. LL.B. 1909 SawTer. Mich. 
SOUTH HAVEN MADILL. David S.. Spec Law 1933 418 Indiana Ave., South Haven, Mich. 
ST.\NDISH O'KEEFE. Dennis J.. LL.B. 1933 Standish. Mich. 
STEVENSVILLE MILLER, Francis J.. A.B. 1926 Stevensvillc, Midi, 
TAWAS CITY COYLE, Michael T.. A.B. 1934 Tawas City. Mich. 
THREE RIVERS DUKETTE- Francis F., A.B. 1902. LL.B. 1904 808 N. Main St . Three Rivers, Mich. 
HESSMER. E. L., LL.B. 1932 700 Seventh St . Three Rivers. Mich. 
TRAVERSE aT Y OTT. Willard M.. Ph.B.For.Com. 192S 206 E. Eighth St, Traverse City, Mich. 
ROKOS, Henry W., B.C.S. 1934 1025 W. Front St, Traverse City, Mich. 
WAKEFIELD GILL, Joseph J.. Ph.B.Com. 1932 
R. F. D. 1, Wakefield, Micb. 

WHITE PIGEON HcEACHEN. B. J.. B.C.S. 1932 White Pigeon. Mich. 
WYANDOTTE AMIOT. Neil H., A.B. 1928 536 Superior. Wyandotte, Mich. 
McFARLANE, James P., Ph.B.Com. 1927 2816 Second St , Wyandotte, Micb. 
McFARLANE. John W., B.S. 1930 2816 Second St , Wyandotte, Mich. 
TROTTER. James M., B.S.C.E. 1932 
P. O. Box 29, Wyandotte, Mich. 

YPSILANTI MEANWELL, Charles V., S.E.E. 1915 431 Hamilton St, Ypsilanti, Mich. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
SIKKULE. Joseph F.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1932 125 Normal St., Ypsilaliti, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 

AUSTIN McLAUGHUN, Philip F., LI,.B. 1926 210 Oakland Ave.. Austin, Minn. 
BARNES VILLB O'LEARY. L. A.. M.S. 1931, Ph.D. 1933 Barnesville. Minn. 
BEMIDJI SSnTH. Clarence R.. LL. B.. 1922 Attorney, Bemidji, Minn. 
BRAINERD DUNN. Joseph H.. A.B. 1927 323 X. Third St.. Brainerd. Minn. 
CHISHOLM BERGERON. Arthur L.. C.E. 1923 333 N. Fifth Ave., Chisholm. Minn. 
CROOKSTON GRADY, Lowell J., A.B. 1925 Colonade Apts., Crookston, Minn. 
SYLVESTRE, Joseph H., A.B. '16. LLB. "IS Marin Block, Crookston, Minn. 
DETROIT LAKES SCHROEDER. Francis C, os. 1926 920 Summit Ave.. Detroit Lakes, Minn. 
DULUTH BEND A. Joseph F., A.B. 1928 321 W. Fifth St.. Duluth, Minn. 
CAVEKDER. Arthur T.. Ph.B.Com. 1933 1320 E. Seymour St.. Duluth, Minn. 
DECKER, Theodore L.. os. 1915, el. 1926 29 Second Ave., W., Duluth, Minn. 
HOENE. Arthur C, A.B. 1934 2521 E. Fifth St., Duluth, Minn. 
KANE. Raymond C. B.S.M.E. 1934 2008 E. Ninth St., Duluth, Minn. 
KELLY. Charles H., os. 190S, el. 1926 Spalding Hotel. Duluth. Minn. 
LOUISELL. M. E., os. 1890. el. 1926 604 Lonsdoll Bids., Duluth, Minn. 
MacDONALD, A. P., os. 1899, el. 1926 3029 E. First St., Duluth. Minn. 
MacDONALD. Don.ald J., os. 1921, el. 1926 1629 E. Fourth St., Duluth, Minn. 
JIAHON. Thomas C. Ph.B.Com. 1928 1810 E. 9th St., Duluth, Minn. 
McGREEVY. John T.. os. 1910, el. 1926 Hotel Duluth, Duluth, Minn. 
MURPHY. Emmett P., os. 1933 1919 Minnesota Ave., Duluth, Minn. 
TWOMEY'. Ted A.. B.C.S. 1930 2T04 E. Fifth St.. Duluth, Minn. 
ELLSWORTH BURKE, Fahian J., A.B. 1925 Ellsworth, Minn. 
HOLLAREN. Vincent, LL.B. 1924 Ellsworth, Minn. 
EVELETH MORONI. Peter E.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1930 515 Adams St., Eveleth, Minn. 
PACIOTTI. Dante W.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1929 512 Hayes St., Eveleth, Minn. 
FAIRMONT LAWLER. Thomas G.. B.C.S. 1930 SOS Alhion, Fairmont, Minn. 
FARIBAULT LEACH. Milton B., B.C.S. 1925 316 Third Ave., S.. Faribault, Minn. 
THEISSEN, Lionel G., Ph.B.Com. 1930 1519 Seventh St., S. E., Faribault, Minn. 
FERGUS FALLS HODGSON, Dr. Corrin, os. 1927 Fersus Falls, Minn. 
GRINAGER, Emmett M.. Ph.B.C. 1925 Fersus Falls, Minn. 
GRINAGER. Haavel A.. Pb.B.Com. 1923 Fergus Falls, Minn. 
GRINAGER, Stanley A., A.B. 1928 Fergus Falls, Minn. 
GHENT SCHREIBEB. Alfred J., Mj\ . 1932 Ghent, Minn. 
GILBERT NOLAN, Mark E., LL.B. 1924 Gilbert, Minn. 
GLENCOE O'HARA, Joseph P., LL.B. 1920 Glencoe, Minn. 
HASTINGS HINIKER. James J., A.B. 1933 700 W. Stalh St., Hastings, Minn. 
HIBBING O'JIALLEY, Terrance R., B.C.S. 1929 2410 St. Louis, Hibbing, Minn. 
POWERS, Clemens F.. LL.B. 1934 317 Lincoln St., Hibbing, Minn. 
WY-NE, Wilbert G., M.A.Boy Guid. 1933 321 Lincoln St., Hibbing, Minn. 
HUTCHINSON LINDENBERG, John F., B.C.S. 1932 123 Glen St., S., Hutchinson. Minn. 
IRON JUNCTION WAGNER, Sylvester N., A.B. 1929 Iron Junction, Minn. 
IRONTON BUTORAC. F. P.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1931 Box 332, Ironton, Minn. 
LE CENTER KOLARS, Charles C, B.S. 18S5, C.E. 1886 Le Center, Minn. 
LONG PRAIRIE BEICHERT, Ardo I.. Ph.B.Com. '22, LL.B. '24 Long Prairie, Minn. 
REICHERT, Ermin E., Ph.B.Com. 1927 Long Prairie, Minn. 
LUVERNE MALONEY, Linus D., A.B. 192S 42G Luverne St., Luvernc. Minn. 
MALONEY'. Lyle E.. A.B. 1928 421 N. Luverne St., Luverne, Minn. 
MARSHALL BULOWSKI, John L., Ph.G. 1922 Marshall, Minn. 
MOLLE, Emil V., A.B. 1910 First National Bank Bldg.. Marshall. Mmn. 
MINNEAPOLIS BECKLEY". William E.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1934 4234 Dupont Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn. 
BIRDER, Cecil E., LL.B. 1914 2008 Second Ave., S., Minneapolis, Mmn. 
BLACK.MAN, Charles E., LL.M. 1899 238 Security Bldg., Minneapolis, Minn, 
CHUTE, Frederick B., Litt. B. 1892 7 University Ave., N. E., Minneapolis, Minn. 
CHUTE, Louis P., A.B. 1890, LL.B. 1892 7 University Ave., N. E., Minneapolis, Minn. 
CONNELL, Karl J., Ph.B.C. 1925 3425 Pillsbury Ave., Minneapolis, Minn. 
CULLEN, John T., LL.B. 1893, LL.M. 1894 3249 Humboldt Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn. 
DBA, William J., B.S.E.B. 1933 2312 Pillsbury Ave., Minneapolis, Minn. 
DeWALD. Robert F.. B.C.S. 1930 c-o Y. M. C. A., Central Ninth - LaSallc, Minneapolis, Minn. 
DOLAN. Martin E., Ph.B.Com. 1932 1418 19th Ave., N., Minneapolis, Minn. 
DOYLE, John J.. A.B. 1928 414 Second Ave., S., Minneapolis, Ifinn. 
DUFAUD, Paul J., B.C.S. 1925 4501 ISth Ave., S., Minneapolis. Hinn. 
DUNN. Thomas B.. B.C.S. 1927 1533 NorthTvestem Bldg.. Minneapolis, Minn. 
GUSRURST, Dr. Edward G.. Ph.B. 1915 2615 Park Ave.. Minneapolis. Minn. 
HALL. Walter D.. Ph.B.C. 1925 4306 Wentworth Ave.. Minneapolis. Minn. 
HALLHAN, Charles J., os. 1922. el. 1927 Route 7. Minneapolis. Minn. 
HAMERSKI. Leo D., C.K 1909 113S Sbcth St.. N. £.. Minneapolis. Minn. 
HODGSON. Thomas H.. Ph.B. 1924 2018 Queen Ave., S., Minneapolis. Minn. 
KLEIN, Arnold J.. B.C.S. 1932 2946 lr\*ing Ave.. N.. Minneapolis. Minn. 
KREIGHBAUM; Dr. Wallace F.. B.S. 1922 2933 Hennepin Ave.. Minneapolis. Minn. 
alAUREN. Vincent W., B.C.S. I9S4 824 nith St, N. R, Minneapolis, Minn. 
MCCARTHY, Charles H., LL.B. 1915 2652 Bryant Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn. 
MCCARTHY". LOUIS A., os. 1914, el. 1926 2440 Park Ave., Minneapolis, Minn. 
McINTOSH. Donald K., A.B. 1934 515 W. 27th St., Minneapolis, Minn. 
McKAY", Gerald E., Ph.BJ'or.Com. 1930 1606 Fremont Ave., N., Minneapolis, Minn. 
McMAHON. Thomas F.. Ph.BJor.Com. 1929 Plymouth Bldg.. Minneapolis, Minn. 
MEYERS. Melvin G.. B.C.S. 1934 3736 Stevens Ave.. Minneapolis. Minn. 
JIOES. Leon J.. LL.B. 1926 1230 W. Minnehaha Parkway. Minneapolis, Minn. 
MORRISON. Vincent B.. B.S. 1889 700 Roanoke Bldg., Minneapolis, Minn. 
O'BRIEN. Eugene A., Ph.B.Com. 1928 15 S. Fifth St.. Minneapolis, Minn. 
O'GRADY. P. W.. C.K 1903 4817 Chicago Ave.. Minneapolis. Minn. 
PETRICK, John R., Ph.B.C. 1924 2426 Irving Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn. 
REGAN, Louis J.., B.C.S. 1929 5101 Drew Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn. 
REICHERT. Romaine R.. Ph.B.Com. 1922 3125 Holmes Ave.. S.. Minneapolis. Minn. 
SCHISSEL. Conrad L.. B.CSJor.Com. 1932 4102 Wentworth Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn. 
SCHROEDER. Joseph K., Ph.B.Com. 1931 1766 Humboldt Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn. 
WILCOX, James P., LL.B. 1923 Minneapolis-General Electric Co.. Minneapolis. Minn. 
Y"ELLAND. John D.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 3221 Holmes Ave.. S., Minneapolis, Minn. 
NEW TILM GLOTZBACH, Linus C LL.B. 1923 New Ulm, Minn. 
OWATONNA BAXTER. Charles T.. LL.B. 1933 133 W. Rice St. Owatonna. Minn. 
KAPLAN, Clarence P_ B.S.Phys.Ed. 1931 115 W. Rose St.. Owatonna. Minn. 
LYNARD, Ambrose J., LL.B. 1924 503 E. Vine St., Owatonna, Minn. 
PIPESTONE CROOK, William J., Ph.B.C. 1924 Pipestone, Minn. 
PBOCTOK HEALY, Roger J., B.C.S. 1933 60 E. Fifth St, Proctor, Minn. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
EOYALTON WOLLACK. John N., A.B. 1934 Royalton, Hinn. 
ST. CLOtlD lADNER. George 3J., B.C.S. 1929 713 Seventh Ave., St. Oond. Minn. 
MDRPHT, GeorEe l., LL.B. 1920 340 Seventh Ave., St. Clond, Minn. 
ST. PATJIi BARRETT. Edward F.. LL.B. 1917 210 W. Ninth St, St. Paul, Minn. 
BOERINGER. Arthur B., A.B. 1927 1200 N. Le^nffton Ave., S t Paul, Minn. 
CULUGAN. Dr. John M.. LittB. 191S 1267 New Lowry Medical Arts Bid?., S t Paul, Minn. 
DALY, Dennis D., A.B. 1928 408 Pioneer Bids., S t Paul, Minn. 

DINKEL. Rohert M., A.B. 1930 2116 iBlchart Ave.. S t Paul, Minn. 
DONOVAN, Thomas J., B.S. 1930 Como. Sta., R. No. 3, S t Paul, Minn. 
DWYEB. Jr., D. Edward. LittB. 18S9 900-05 Guardian Life Bids., S t Paul, Minn. 
FAHEY, Edward J.. A.B. 1929 1042 Minnesota Bids-. S t Paul. Minn. 
FITZGERALD, Gerald B., B.S.Phrs.Ed. 1930 540 Dayton, S t Paul, Minn. 
FOCERTY. Robert P., A.B. I92S S t Thomas CoUeBe. S t Paul, Minn. 
HAUER. Robert J., B.C.S. 1934 1966 Portland St, St Panl, Minn. 
LAMPREY, John L.. os. 1S99. el. 1926 1784 Laurel Ave.. S t Paul. Minn. 
HAAS. Frank N.. os. 1S7G. el. 1926 736 Goodrich Ave.. S t Paul, Minn. 
HASTERSON, James T., M.A. 192S St. Thomas College. S t Paul. Minn. 
MAYER. Frank. E.E. 1927 1669 Juno St, St Paul, Minn. 
McDERHOTT. Paul L. Ph.B.Com. 1922 942 Summit Ave.. S t Paul. Minn. 
McDONELL, Alexander A., os. 1900, el. 1916 2257 First NafI Bank Bids., S t Paul, Minn. 
MEAGHER, John B., LittB. 1SS9 659 Summit Ave., S t Paul, Minn. 
MOCK, Raymond G., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1928 324 Oneida St, St Paul, Minn. 
O'MALLEY, Raymond C., LittB. 1S96 900 Guardian Life Bldg., S t Paul, Minn. 
SALMON, Gilmore A.. Ph.BJor.Com. 1929 
K. of C. Club, S t Paul, Minn. 

SULLIVAN, Arthur K., LL.B. 1927 264 Lowry Bide, S t Paul, Minn. 
TOOSIEY, Justin G., B.S. 1925 695 Lincoln, S t Paul, Minn. 
WOLTERS, Henry H. J., B.S.M.E. 1930 961 Goodrich St, S t Paul, Winn. 
WOROEN, Jr., John L., B.S. 1928 S t Thomas College, S t Paul, Minn. 
STILLWATER BURKE, John C, C.E. 1914 717 W. Pine St, Stillwater, Minn. 
PIPER, Herman 0. R., E.E. 1911 1104 S. Third St, SUllwater, Minn. 
WASECA COUGHLIN, Daniel M., Ph.B.Joum. 1922 Waseca, Minn. 
WAVEKLY BOLAND, William, os. 1887, el. 1926 Citizens State Bank, Wa\-erly, Minn. 
WHITE BEAR LAKE 

CONWAY, Gerald F., B.C.S. 1932 219 "E. Seventh St. White Bear Lake. Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI 
BAY ST. LOUIS WENTWORTH, Rupert A., A.B. 1927 S t Stanislaus College, Bay S t Louis, Miss. 
CANTON LUCKETT. Angelo B.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1932 113 S. Liberty St , Canton, Miss. 
TROLIO. Peter J.. B.Arch. 1932 109 S. Union St. Canton. Miss. 
FRIAR POINT BREWER. Daniel C, LL.B. 1889 Bo.^ 252, Friar Point, Miss. 

GULFPORT SHOURDS, Dallon B., B-Ardi. 1911 Suite 12. G. S. I. Bldg.. Gulfporl. Miss. 
JACKSON JONES. C. D.. A.B. 1932 755 Gillespie, Jackson, Miss. 
LAUREL DEA, John H., B.S.Ch.E. 1930 
P. O. Bo.\ 565, Laurel, Miss. 

NATCHEZ BURNS, Patrick P.. B.C.S. 1933 SI2 Main St, Natchez, Miss. 
BYRNE, Edward J.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1922 205 S. Pine St., Natchez, Miss. 
PERRY, H. J., B.S.E.E. 1931 717 N. Union St, Natchez, Miss. 
TUPELO BONNER, J Troy, A,B. 1928 42S Main St, Tupelo. Miss. 
VICKSBURG ADASIS. William M.. Ph.G. 1925 2401 Marshall St. Vicksburg. Miss. 
CANIZARO. Vito J.. B.S. 1929 906 Monroe Blvd.. Vicksburg. Miss. 
EVANS. Jr.. Robert F.. Ph.B.Com. 192S Great South Apts., 1130 South St. Vicksburg. Miss. 
HENNESSEY, Lawrence H., Ph.B.Com. 1927 1320 Clay Ave., Vicksburg, Miss. 
lULLER, William H., B.C.S. 1930 260S Brummond St , Vicksburg, Miss. 
PALERMO, Joseph P., B.C.S. 1930 1111 South St, Vicksburg, Miss. 
YAZOO CITY NICHOLAS, Samuel J.. B.C.S. 1934 Yazoo City, Miss, 
inssouRi 

BIRCHTREE BOWDEN, Harold S.. Ph.B.Com. 1922 Birchtree, Mo. 
CAMERON RUSSELL, Robert M., os. 1916 318 S. Chestnut, Cameron, Mo. 
CHARLESTON O'ROURKE, A. F., B.C.S. 1932 201 N. Third St., Charleston, Mo. 
CLAYTON O'HANLON, Joseph R., S.E.E. 1913 7400 Northmoor, Clayton, Mo. 
COLUMBIA CARIDEO, F. F., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1931 University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo. 
FARMINGTON ROHRBACH, George E., M.E. 1925 Farmington, Mo. 
FLAT RIVER ROHRBACH, Edwin A., A.B. 1931 Flat River, Mo. 
ROHRBACH, Robert J., Ph.BJ.Com. 1932 Flat River, Mo. 
JOPUN BRAECKEL, Robert J., B.S.Arch. 1929 1201 Wall St, Joplin, Mo. 
DIETES. Moritz A., Pb.BJor.Com. 1929 907 W. Rfth St, Joplin, Mo. 
MUnNNIS, Daniel V., LL.B. 1913 Box 606, Joplin, Ho. 

NOLAN. Ralph L , Ph.B.Com. 1928 711 Glenview Place, Joplin, Mo. 
KANSAS OTY BOMBECK. Charles T., os. ISSS. el. 192S 209 Reliance Bldg., Kansas City, Mo. 
BOMBECK, Jr., Charles T., A.B. 1926 5800 Paseo Place, Kansas City, Mo. 
BOWES. Norman M., A.B. 1933 5525 Rockhill Road, Kansas City, Mo. 
BRAT, James P., B.C.S. 1929 3105 Fenn St, Kansas City, Mo. 
BURDICK. Henry A., S.M.E. 1908 2S46 Holmes St, Kansas City, Mo. 
CARROLL, Maurice J., B.Ardi. 1918 3120 Karnes Blvd., Kansas City, Mo. 
CONKUNG, Emmett V., B.S.B.E. 1934 2647 Chestnut St, Kansas City, Mo. 
CONRAD. Raymond J., BJlrch. 1921 5049 Womall, 90 Conrad Manor, Kansas City, Mo. 
CURRAN, Dr. Kevin E., B.S. 1923 800 W. S6th St. Kansas City. Mo. 
DUFFY, Drc-Tel L., LL.B. 1916 3 E. 56tfa St, ICansas City, Mo. 
DUGAN. John M.. LL.B. 1927 7401 Terrace, Kansas City, Mo. 
FINDLEY, G. J., B.S.C.E. 1931 3901 Wabash, Kansas City, Mo. 
HAYNES, Harold F., LittB. 1923 5028 Sunset Drive, Kansas City, Mo. 
RIGGINS, James R, B.S.C.E. 1932 35 W. 53rd St, Kansas City, Mo. 
BOLIAND. Thomas V.. LL.B. 1917 119 Commerce Bldg.. Walnut & Tenth St. 
Kansas City, Mo. 

lUEN. Jr.. Francis J.. B.C.S. 1932 , 3424 Baltimore Ave.. Kansas Cit>-. Mo. 
KENNEDY, Walter J., LL.B. 192S 3117 Montgall St , Kansas City, Mo. 
MAHONEY. James W., A.B. 1933 5112 Virginia Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 
MANCUSO, Fred, os. 1921, el. 1931 1215 Commerce Bldg., Kansas City, Mo. 
UASSMAN, Henry J., B.S.C.E. 1923 737 New York Life Bldg, Kansas City. Mo. 
MCCARTHY, W. C . B.S.E.E. 1931 18 E. Linwood Terrace. Kansas City. Mo. 
HcGRATH, Edward F., os. 1918, el. 1931 6425 Fenn. Kansas City. Mo. 
HcLINEY. George J.. A.B. 1928 5134 Wyandotte St . Kansas City. Mo. 
MEYER. Charles E., A.B. 1929 420 E. Armour Blvd., Kansas City, Mo. 
MEYER. Frank M„ LittB. 1924 420 £ . Armour Blvd., Kansas City, Mo. 
MONAGHAN, Peter J., LL.B. 1925 1469 E. 66th Terrace, Kansas Cits", Mo. 
MONTEIL, Vernon H., LL.B. 1924 
•4211Agnes St, Kansas City, Mo. 

NIGRO. Dr. D. M., OS. 1914, el. 1925 531-13 Argyle Bldg., 12th & McGce Sts, 
Kansas City, Mo. 

PFISTER. Edward J.. E.E. 1925 5021 Troost Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 
PURCELL, William F., os. 1922, el. 1929 5133 Brookwood Road, Kansas City, Mo. 
REINHABDT, Jr„ George B., os. '17, el. '27 6401 Wyandotte St, Kansas City, Mo. 
SCHMIDT, Otto A., Ph.B. 1909 330 Dierks Bldg., Kansas City, Mo. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
SCRMITZ. John T.. B.S. 1928 5009 Troost Ave., TCnnsas City, Mo. 
SHAUGRNESST, Joseph B, Arch.B. 1922 5024 Lydia Ave., ^rnsas City, Mo. 
SMITH, Ramon, os. 1931 3520 Broadway, Kansas City, Mo. 
TYLER, Jr.. Benjamin F.. Ph.B.Com. 1923 2616 Paaeo Blvd., Kansas City, Mo. 
TYXER, Robert. A.B. 1929 3616 Paseo Blvd., Kansas City, Mo. 
VAN DEN BOOM. EiiBene. Ch.E. 1921 4924 Troostwood Road, Kansas City, Mo. 
WEISS, Fred J., B.S.E.E. 1929 4335 Jarboe. Kansas City, Mo. 
WIRTHMAN, Fred G., Ph.C. 1911 422 W. 6Slh St, Kansas City, Mo. 
KIRKWOOD DORLEY, Anthony P.. C.E. 1900 241 E. Argonne Drive, Kirkwood, Mo. 
LE.XINGTON SEITER, Edward, A.B. 1930 1905 Sonth St, Lexington, Mo. 
SEITER. John A., A.B. 1928 1905 South St, Lexington, Mo. 
MAIDEN ABENDS, RoTjert G.. E.E. 1920 103 Madison St , Maiden, Mo. 
MOBEELY • CARMODY, John P., A.B. 1934 615 "W. Lee Ave., Moberly, Mo. 
O'KEEFE. William A., B.C.S. 1927 Z22li W. Bend St., Moberly, Mo. 
MONROE CITY HAGAN, Lowell L.. A.B. 1934 419 N. Vine St, Monroe City, Mo. 
NEVADA COLE, George W.. Ph.B.Com. 1934 503 S. Adams St, Nevada, Mo. 
COLE, John C. Ph.B.Com. 1932 501 S. Adams St, Nevada, Mo. 
REEDl", Joseph B.. A.B. 1930 Nevada News, Nevada. Mo. 
NEW MADRID HUNTER. William P., B.C.S. 1933 New Madrid, Mo. 
OVERLAND BRBNGARTNER. Elmer J.. B.C.S. 1933 2516 Marion Ave., Overland, Mo. 
PEBRYVILLE LOTTES. Edward F., B.C.S. 1933 201 School St, Pcrryville, Mo. 
PORTAGEVILLE PINKLEY, Jr., Talbcrt C, B.C.S. 1933 Portageville, Mo. 
ROLLA CAMPBELL, Eugene J.. LL.B. 1900 Vice President of State Bank, Rolla, Mo. 
ST. JOSEPH CAULFIELD, Jo.^ph A., B.C.S. 1934 1201 Ffancis St, St Joseph, Mo. 
CORBY, Joseph E., LL.B. 1898 Corby Bids., St. Joseph, Mo. 
FOGARTY, Francis J.. Ph.B.Com. 1933 2702 Sacramento St, St. Joseph, Mo. 
ST. LOinS BEESON, Paul 0., SM3i. 1908 9215 Riverview Drive, St Louis, Mo. 
BEHRSIAN, Henry B., A.B.Phys.Ed. 1932 2914 Magnolia Ave., S t Louis, Mo. 
BERKLEY, Fred J., os. 1901, el. 1926 4944 Lindell Blvd., S t Louis, Mo. 
BRUNO, George I., A.B. 1934 6177 Waterman Ave., S t Louis, Mo. 
CLARKE, John O., A.B. 1932 7225 Lindell Blvd., S t Louis. Mo. 
CORLEY. John L , LL.B. 1902 4463 Lindell Blvd., S t Louis, Mo. 
COSTELLO, Dr. Joseph P., Ph.G. 1912 Lister Bide., St Louis, Mo. 
COUGHLIN, Dr. Bertrand D., B.S. 1926 1016 McCausIand Ave,, St Louis, Mo. 
CRONK, Eugene D., os. 1912. el. 1926 1301 Ambassador Bldg., S t Louis, Mo. 
CROWLEY, Bernard P., A.B. 1928 St. Mary's Hospital, St. Louis, Mo. 
DOYLE, Albert F., B.S. 1927 4534 Parkview Place, S t Louis, Mo. 
FEHLIG, Paul T.. B.C.S. 1931 5610 Chamberlain Ave., St Louis, Mo. 
FEHLIG, Vincent J.. A'.B. 1934 5610 Chamberlain Ave., St Louis, Mo. 
HOMER, Charles A., A.B. 1928 6341 Washington Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 
ROWLAND, Robert B.. A.B. 1925 6655 Berthold, S t Louis, Mo. 
JAMES, Llewellyn D., LL.B. 1917 4144 Lindell Blvd., S t Louis, Mo. 
KENNEDY, Francis L., B.S.Agric 1925 4200 Flad Ave., St Louis, Mo. 
IfENNEDY, Dr. Thomas B.. os. 1914, el. 1926 518 University Club Bldg., St Louis, Mo. 
KILLOREN, Eugene F.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 5596 Pershing, S t Louis. Mo. 
KRIEGGR, Lawrence F., LL.B. 1926 4616 Lindell, S t Louis, Mo. 
LEAHY, William H.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1928 S370 Cabanne, S t Louis, Mo. 
JIAXWELL, Joseph W.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 St. Louis University, S t Louis, Mo. 
McCOLL, Charles D., A.B. 1929 Boys Club oE S t Louis, 9th & Park Ave., S t Louis, Mo. 
MCLAUGHLIN, Patrick, j. . A.B. 1930 318 N. Eighth St, St Louis, Mo. 
McNULTY, John F.. Ph.B. 1911 Kohler & Co., 2122 W. Pine St., S t Louis, Mo. 
MEDABT, J. Reynolds, LittB. 1923 3500 DeKalb St, S t Louis, Mo. 
SIURRAY, T. Frank. B.S. 1925 554 Summit, S t Louis, Mo. 
NYIKOS, Michael J.. A.B. 1926 3672 W. Pine Blvd., St Louis, Mo. 
PETERSCHSnDT, Ludwig C. B.C.S. 1923 5540 Natural Bridge, St. Louis, Mo. 
PINKLEY, J. Carroll. Ph.B.For.Com. 1928 5387 Pershing, St. Louis, Mo. 
REDDING, James F.. Litt.B. 1910 1433 Hawthorne Place, S t Louis, Mo. 
REEVES, Richard G., A.B. 1934 4156 Cleveland St, S t Louis, Mo. 
RIELLEY, David J., B.C.S. 1930 107 Avundell Place, St Louis, Mo. 
ROLWING, K Merlin. Ph.B. 1923 1412 Ambassador Bldg., St. Louis, Mo. 
ROWLAND, John K., B.C.S.Por.Com. 1929 5S4S Clemens Ave., St Louis, Mo. 
SCHERRER, Leo J.. B.S. 1890 916 Federal Commerce Trust Bldg., St. Louis, Mo. 
SHEEHAN, Jr., John •William. LL.B. 1907 S t Louis Globe-Democrat, S t Louis, Mo. 
SSHTH, Walter W., A.B. 1927 c-o St. Louis Star, St. Louis, Mo. 
SUTLIFF, Leo, os. 1924 2710 S. Grand, S t Louis, Mo. 
YOCH, James J.. B.S.M.E. 1932 3229 Copelin St , S t Louis, Mo. 
Y^OCH, Joseph R., A.B. 1929, LL.B. 1931 3229 Copelin St., St. Louis, Mo. 
SLATER O'HEARN. Francis M., LL.B. 1913 Slater, Mo. , 
SPRINGFIELD LANDERS, John H., B.C.S. 1934 576 St Louis Ave., Springiield, Mo. 
REPS, Louis W., OS. 1909 1010 E. Walnut St, Springfield, Mo. 
UNIVERSITY CITY HELLRUNG. Robert T., B.G.S. 1930 7214 Northmoor Drive, University City, Ho. 
^VEBSTER GROVES FUSZ, Finnan D., M.E. 1925 533 Sheffield Ave., Webster Groves, Mo. 
MAHER. Raphael M.. A.B. 1926 Kenrick Seminary, Weljster Groves, Mo. 
\VEST ALTON DAMES. Roland N., B.C.S. 1933 West Alton, Mo. 
MONTANA 

BILLINGS CLINE, Arthur F., B.C.S. 1932 Billings Laundry, Billings, Mont 
O'DONNELL, Charles E.. Ph.B.C. 1924 24 Feltowstone Ave., Billings, Mont 
RANSAVAGE, Anthony J., A.B. 1931 312 N. 3lst St, Billings, Mont. 
BUTTE ANDREW, John T., LL.B. 1915 310 Daly Bank Bldg., Butte, Mont 
DOWNEY, Timothy B., LL.B. 1914 21 E. Center St, Butte, Mont 
GOLDEN. Thomas P., A.B. 1931 1240 W. Platinum. Butte, Mont 
MCCARTHY, John P.. E.E. 1919 1109 W. Diamond St, Butte. Mont 
• MONAHAN, Dr. R. C, os. 1890, el, 1926 418 Hennessy Bldg., Butte, Mont 
O'DONNELL, James P., LL.B. 1915 635 W. Granite St, Butte, Mont 
O'NEILL. William J., os. 1920. el. 1926 417 N. Wyoming St, Butte. Mont 
SLATT , Charles J., B.aE.E. 1933 638 E. Park St, Butte, Mont. 
EAST HELENA MARONICK. Joseph V., Ph.BJ.Com. 1932 Box K, East Helena, Mont. 
GREAT FALLS GIES, N. M., B.C.S. 1931 425 Third Ave., N., Great Falls, Mont 
HICOK, John. A.B. 1927 Montana Power Co., Great Falls, Mont 
O'FLYNN, James B., LL.B. 1911 Great Falls, Mont 
REGAN, Leonard D., Ph.B Jor.Com. 1933 1522 Third Ave., N., Great FalK Mont 
HAMILTON O'HARA. B. A.. OS. 1889, el. 1916 Hamilton, Mont 
HELENA BROWN, Earl W., LL.B. 1893 Brown Bros. Lumber Co., Helena. Mont 
BROWN, Edward C. LittB. 1S9S Box 885, Helena, Mont 
GALEN, Hon. Albert J., LL.B. 1896 435 Clarke St., Helena, Mont. 
JONES, William B., A.B. 1928, LL.B. 1931 411 Power Bldg., Helena, Mont 
SHERMAN. Edward H., Ph.B.Com. 1934 417 N. Benton St, Helena, Mont 
YUND, Walter V.. SJI.E. 1913. SJIE. 1913 734 N. Benton Ave., Helena, Mont 
LIMA BOESPFLUG. John F., Ph.B.Com. 1933­Lima. Mont, 
LEWISTO^VN ZAPPONE. Francis L.. A.B. 1929 809 W. Montana, Lewistown. Mont-
LIVINGSTON HARVAT. Edwin J.. S.M.E. 1913 BO3L 486. Livingston. Mont. 
MISSOULA CAMPBELL. Francis B.. LL.B. 1914 c-o Independent Oil Co.. Missoula, Mont. 
SACO VAK WOKTERGHEM. August A., LL.B. 1919 Tobtn Quarries, Saco. Mont. 
NEBRASKA 
ALLIANCE 
GUTHRIE. John W.. B.S. 1885. C.E. 1886, Box 408, Butte Ave., M.S. 1893 Alliance, Nehr. 
NEWBERRY. Wm. L..B.Arch 1934 608 Laramie Ave.. Alliance. Neiir. 
AURORA QUIKN. Edwin J., el. 1931 Aurora. Nebr. 
WANEK. George C A.B. 1929 920 16th St., Aurora. Nebr. 
BASSET LACKAFF, Edward A.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 Basset. Nebr. 
CAMBRIDGE TRANT. Jr., Richard J , A.B. 1928 Cambridge. Nebr. 
CEDAR RAPIDS VAN ACKEREN, Paul M.. B.S.E.E. 1921 Cedar Rapids. Nebr. 
COLUMBUS BRANIGAN. M. E.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1931 2504 14th St.. Columbus. Nebr. 
CARBIG, Lester J.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 2116 14th St.. Columbus. Nebr. 
FAIRBURY 

tIcHALE. Thomas G., B.Arch. 1923 1014 E St.. Fairburs". Nebr. 
GRAND ISLAND MULLEN. •William P.. os. 1919. el. 1926 Grand Island. Nebr. 
LAUGHLIN. Joseph A.. A.B. 1933. LL.B. 1934 911 W. Second St.. Grand Island. Nebr. 
SABINE. Frank M.. C.E. 1924 206 Greystone Apts.. Grand Island. Nebr. 

TRIPPEL, Carl A.. B.S.Ch.E. 1930 American Beet Sugar Co.. Grand Island. Nebr. 
HASTINGS CURRY. Wallace J.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1934 209 N. Bellevue Ave.. Hastings. Nebr. 
HOMER REILLY. James, os. 1928 Homer, Nebr. 
LINCOLN 

ARNDT. Prof. Karl M.. Litt.B. 1922 University oE Nebraska. Box 12S1. Lincoln. Nebr. 
NORFOLK DeLAY, Bernard M., A.B. 1933 401 Norfolk Ave., Norfolk. Nebr. 
MAAS, Francis J.. Ph.BJ.Com. 1932 413 Norfolk Ave.. Norfolk. Nebr. 
NORTH PLATTE HAHLER, John J., S.Comm. 1921 620 E. Fifth St., North Phitte, Nebr. 
KEEFFE, James T.. Ph.B. 1907 417 E. Rfth St.. North Platte. Nebr. 
OGALLALA McGlNLEV, Gerald J.. LL.B. '26. LL.M. '27 Halligan. Beatty, Halligan & Maupin, Ogallala, Nebr. 
OMAHA BARRETT. Gerald M.. Ph.B. 1922 315 S. 37th St., Omaha, Nebr. 
COFFEY. Ra>mond T.. Ph.B. 1910 4001 Charles. Omaha. Nebr. 
COGAN. George F., LL.B. 1929 637 N. 41st St.. Omaha. Nebr. 
DOARN, John C . LL.B. 1929 Rome Hotel. Omaha. Nebr. 
EATON, Wilbur S., LL.B. 1925 319 N. 41st Ave.. Omalia, Nebr. 
FORTUNE. Robert T.. A.B. 1934 4920 Chicago St.. Omaha. Nebr. 

HINOELANG. Mark G.. os. 1919. el. 1926 2542 Cass St.. Omaha. Nebr. 
KAHLER. Charles P.. C.E. 1904 137 N. 38th St., Omaha, Nebr. 
McGRATH. Frank J.. Ph.B. 1924 2230 S. 15th St.. Omaha. Nebr. 
MELADY', Eugene P.. os. 1889. el. 1925 90th i Pacific. Omaha. Nebr. 
NEBLE, Sophus F.. LL.B. 1909 2018 N. S3rd St., Omaha. Nebr. 
NEY. Michael J.. Litt-B. 1897. LL.B. 1898 2745 Brown St., Omaha. Nebr. 
PFLAUM. Daniel J.. M.S. 1932. Ph.D. 1934 2560 Pierce St., Omaha, Nebr. 
POWERS. Joseph W.. Ph.G. 1924 6021 Woohvorlh Ave.. Omaha. Nebr. 
WEISBECKER. Allan A.. LitLB. 1910 2001 Spencer St.. Omaha. Nebr. 
PAPILLION KENNEDY', Kenneth S.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1934 Paptllion. Nebr. 
PONCA HURLEY'. Bernard F., LL.B. 1926 Ponca. Nebr. 
SIDNEY McINTOSH. James C . Litt.B. 1924 506 W. Second Ave.. Sidney. Nebr. 
McINTOSH. John L.. os. 1888 Mcintosh BIdg., Sidney, Nebr. 
McINTOSH. McKinloy J.. A.B. 1925 106 W. Washington St., Sidney, Nebr. 
VATH, Paul J.. A.B. 1924 107 E. SL\-th St.. Sidney. Nebr. 
YORK CURRAN, James C . A.B. 1934 807 E. Sixth St.. York. Nebr. 
NEW HAMPSHIRE 

FRANKLIN GAUTHIER, Ma.ximc L., Ph.B. For. Com. '30 147 Franklin St., Franklin, N. H. 
WEST LEBANON DEGNAN. Bryan J.. A.B. 1934 47 N. Main St.. West Lebanon. N. H. 
NEW JERSEY 

ALLENDALE MULLANEY, Richard. B.S. M.E. '25. M.E. '28 Park Ave.. Allendale. N. J, 
ATLANTIC CITY KEATING. Leo D. B.S. Phys.Ed. 1933 3408 Winchester Ave.. Atlantic City. N. J. 
ATLANTIC HIGHLANDS McLAUdHLIN. Jas. B.. A.B. 1933 82 Center Ave.. Atlantic Highlands. N. J. 
BASKING RIDGE DUPAY'. Peter P.. B. Arch. 1925 Basking Ridge. N. J. 
BAYONNE DUGAN. Donald F.. B.S. Phys. Ed. 1934 42 W. 48th St.. Bayonne. N. J. 
KRONCKE Charles O. Jr., B.S. 1932 1/ E. 39th St., Bayonne. N. J. 
O'CONNOR, George L.. A.B. 1931 69 W. 37th SL. Bayonne. N. J. 
O'CONNOR. Ward F.. B.S.E.E. 1931 69 W. 37th St., Bayonne. N. J. 
BELLEVILLE HARGAN. Edw. P.. A.B. 1926 . 178 DeWitt Ave.. Belleville. N. J. 
O'KEEFFE, James G.. Jr.. A.B. 1930 277 William St.. Belleville. X. J. 
PAPERA. John J., B.S. 1932 6 Jerome Ave.. Belleville. N. J. 
BERGENFIELD SHERIDAN, Thomas Wm.. B.S.E.R 1926 45 Demarest Ave., Bergenfield. N. J. 
BERNARDSVILLE BLAINE. George J.. B.S. Phys Ed. 1934 Bemardsville. N. J. 
MONACO. Arthur J.. B.C.S. For. Com. 1927 24 Olcott Square. Bemardsville. N. J. 
BLOOMFIELD GALLAGAN, Wm. F.. Ph.B.C.. 1924 47 Grove St.. Bloomfield. N. J. 
PURCELL, R J.. OS. 1923 332 Belleville Ave.. Bloomfield. N. J. 
QUINN. Edward D.. B.S. 1934 320 Belleville Ave.. Bloomfield. N. J. 
CALDWELL McDERMITT. Francis F.. LL.B. 1923 Hillcrest Road. Caldwell. N. J. 
SULLIVAN. Justin D.. B.C.S. 1932 105 SmuU Ave.. Caldwell. N. J. 
CARTERET HARRINGTON, B. W.. A.B. 1932 125 Pershing Ave.. Carteret. N. J. 
YORKE. Edw. T.. B.S. 1930 9 Cooke Ave.. Carteret. N. J. 

CLIFTON BISHKO. Michael J.. Ph.B. Com. 1930 127 E. 9th St.. Clifton. N. J. 
CONNOLLY^. John L. A.B. 1934 92 Madison Ave.. Clinton. N. J. 
FARLEY. Edward M.. A.B. 1934 491 Clifton Ave.. Clifton. N. J. 
FINKEL, Charles A.. B.S.E.E. 1934 96 E First St.. Clifton, N. J. 
NOVAK, Richard. A.B. 1929 40 Center St., Clifton, N. J. 
CLOSTER HOFMANN, Jos. A. Jr.. A.B. 1933 Box 494. Closter. N. J. 
COLLINGSWOOD DALSEY. Joseph G.. Ph.B. Com. 1932 905 Linwood. Collingswood. N. J. 
CRANFORD SUTTER. Henry G.. A.B. 1925 3 Miln St.. Cranfprd. N. J. 
EAST ORANGE BURKE, Edmund F., B.C.S. 1026 31 Watson Ave.. East Orange. N. J. 
CANTY. Arthur L.. A.B. 1928 492 Park Ave.. East Orange. N. J. 
DUNCAN, Archibald M.. LL.B. 1921 104 Midland Ave.. East Orange. N. J. 
FARRELL. Thus. A.. A.B. 1926 184 N. Walnut St.. East Orange. N. J. 
BUETZ. Robert G.. os. '28 el. "31 143 McKinley Ave.. East Orange. N. J. 
HURLEY, Robert F.. Ph.B.Com. 1923 142 S. Grove Street, East Orange. X. J. 
MURPHY. Wm. J.. Ph. B. Com, 1922 27 Hamilton St.. East Orange. N. J. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
O'CONNOR, Paul A, B.S. 1931 233 N. Oraton Pk%\-y.. East Oranee, N. J. 
0'NEII.L. Daniel J.. RE. 1926 184 N. Walnut St. E. Orange, N. J. 
PHELAN. Robert R., LL.B. 1922 38 S, Walnut St., East OranKO, N. J. 
PURCELL, Thos.. os. '2- cl. "31 32 N. 16th St., East Oranee. N. J. 
SAUNDERS, John F.. A.B. 1931 184 N. Walnut St.. East Orange, N. J. 
WINGERTER, Bernard K.. A.B. 1926 113 S. Clinton St., East Orange. N. J. 
WINGERTER, John J., A.B. 1923 113 S. Clinton St.. East Orange. N. J. 
WINTER, Charles A. os. "04 cl. '30 514 Central Ave.. East Orange, N. J. 
EDGEWATER QUINN. Edmond J., B.S. Ch. 1911 625 UnderclilT Ave.. Edgewater. N. J. 
ELIZABETH BAILEY. James H., Ch.E. 1920. M.S. 1921 429 Morris Ave., Elizabeth, N. J. 
NULTY, Joseph A., A.B. 1927 945 Madison Ave., Elizabeth. N. J. 
ROBRECHT, Charles J.. Ch.E. 1924 11 Watson Ave., Elizabeth. N. J. 
STEIN. Albert W.. A.B. 19.31 34 Maiden Terrace. Elizabeth. N. J. 
WADE, Thomas. V., B.C.S. 1933 836 Pennington St., Elizabeth, N. J. 
ENGLEWOOD DRINANE, Joseph S., B.S. Arch.E. 1930 138 Knickerbocker Rd.. Englewood. N. J. 
ROURKE. John T., Ph.B. Com. 1929 170 John St.. Englewood. N. J. 
PURCELL, John A., Ph.B. For. Com. 1926 87 Helen St., Fanwood. N. J. 
GLEN RIDGE MASSEY', Robert A. A.B. 1931 10 Femclilt St., Glen Ridge, N. J. 
YOUNG, Daniel A. Jr., B.C.S. 1934 176 Ridgewood Ave., Glen Ridge, N. J. 
YOUNG, Joseph A, A.B. 1934 176 Ridgewood Ave., Glen Ridge. N. J. 
GRANTWOOD JOSEPH, Francis M.. B.S.E.E. 1933 264 Grant Ave., Grantwood, N. J. 
WHELAN, James F., Ph.B.Com. 192G 715 Palisade Ave,, Grantwood. N. J. 
WHELAN, Joseph W.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 715 Palisade Ave., Grantwood, N. J. 
WHELAN. Vincent M., B.S. 1932 715 Palisade Ave., Grantwood, N. J. 
HACKENSACK MURPHY, William R., A.B. 1934 224 Elm St., Hackensack, N. J. 
HASBROUCK HEIGHTS BROWN, Henry E., Litt. B. 1902 216 Hamilton Ave., Hasbroucic Hts., N. J. 
HA\VTHORNE 

WALSH, James F., B.S. Phys. Ed. 1931 Watching Rd. & Pasadena Ave., Hawthorne, N. J. 
HOBOKEN MAGGI, Edgar B., LL.B. 1928 926 Castle Point Terrace, Hobokcn, N. J. 
WALLACE, John J.. B.S.E.E. 1934 910 Garden St., Hoboken, N. J. 
IRVINGTON GEIGER, Raymond A., A.B. 1932 446 Eastern Parkway, Irvington, N. J. 
O'HARA, Herman B., Ch.E. 1914 Irvington Smelting & Refining Co., Nye Ave., Irvington, N. J. 
JERSEY CITY BOOTH, Murry J.. A.B. 1933 324 Arlington Ave., Jersey City. N. J. 
CLARK, James B., A.B. 1933 161 Belmont Ave.. Jersey City, N. J. 
DEGNAN, William J., B.S.Ch.E. 1927 c-o. M. W. Eellog Co., Jersey City, N. J. 
DRISCOLL, John E.. A.B. 1932 178 Harrison, Jersey City, N. J. 
GREENSTEIN, Rabbi Philip S., MA. 1930 121 Wade St, Jersey City, N. J. 
MADDEN, Francis J., A.B. 1933 825 Pax'onia Ave., Jersey City, N. J. 
McCABE, Raymond, os. 1917 10th & Brunswick Sts., Jersey City, H. J. 
MEEHAN, James T., Ph.B. Com. 1932 331 York St, Jersey City, N. J. 
MEY'ER, Robert J., B.S. Phys. Ed. 1934 72 Nelson Ave.. Jersey City. N. J. 
OUELLETTE, Jerome E.. B.S. Phys. Ed. '29 43 Eastern-Parkway, Jersey City, N. J. 
SHERIDAN, William J.. A.B. 1934 53 Monticello Ave., Jersey City. N. J. 
WENZ, George E., B.C.S. 1934 69 Magnolia Ave,, Jersey City, N. J. 
ZABRISKIE, Leon F., A.B. 1930 240 Fowler Ave., Jersey City, N. J. 
KEARNEY JOHNSON, Charles H., M.E. 1908 c-o Federal Ship Bldg.. Kearney, N. J. 
LAJIBERTVILLE FAHERTY', Jr., Philip J., A.B. 193.t 136 N. Union St., Lambertville, N. J. 
LONG BRANCH 

MCDONNELL, George J.. B.S. 1929 
Monmouth Memorial Hospital, 
Long Branch, N. J. 

LYNNHURST BRESLIN, Roger W., A.B. 1928 409 Stuyvesant Ave., Lynnhurst, N. J. 
MADISON MURPHY, Daniel P., A.B. 1S93; LL.B. 1896: LL.M. 1897 Greene Ave., Madison, N. J. 
MAHWAH O'BRIEN, Jr., George G., B.S. 1U2S 
P. O. Box 67, Mahwah, N. J. 

MAPLEWOOD KING, Grcnvillc N., B.S.Ch.E. 1934 38 Woodland Road, Maplewood. N. J. 
LEA MOND, Arthur J., os. 1917, el. 1931 469 Valley St.. Maplewood. N. J. 
MANGIN, Jr., Joseph A., os. 1917 52 Maplewood Ave., Maplewood, N. J. 
BEULBACH, Edward M.. os. 1901 20 Maplewood Ave., Maplewood, X. J. 
SHIELDS, Robert E., Ph.B.Com. 1927 17 Oakland Road, Maplewood. N. J. 
WALDRON. Edward M., cl. 1929 506 Summit Ave, Maplewood, N. J. 
MONTCLAIR AOASIS, John Q., Ph.B.Com. 1926 24 Prospect Terrace, Montclair, N. J. 
BAIER. Joseph J., B.S. 1924 75 Grove St, Montclair, N. J. 
DONAHUE, C. W., Ph.B.C. 1925 67 Watching Ave., Montclair, N. J. 
LOPEZ, Adrian B., B.S.M.E. 192S 203 Orange Road, Montclair, N. J. 
WALDRON, James R., os. 1922. el. 1928 201 Watching Ave. Montclair. N. J. 
MORRISTOWN • GRIFnN, Gerald R.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1929 13 Grant St., Morristown, N. J. 
PARMEGIANI, Joseph A., A.B. 1930 42 Speedwell Ave., Morristown, N. J. 
TERRERI. Dominie J., B.S. 1929 37 Flaglen, Morristown, N. J. 
VERILU, Daniel M., A.B. 1929 16 Race St, Horristown, N, J^ 
MOUNT HOLLY FLYNN, John R, B.C.S, 1928 37 White, Mount Holly, N. J. 
NEWARK ADDONIZIO. Sabby D., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1933 9 Cliff St, Newark, N. J. 
ALVINO, Alphonse V., B.S.RR 1933 560 N. Seirenth St, Newark, N. J. 
BIANCHI, John V., Ph.G. 1925 104 Seventh Ave., Newark, N. I. 
BONTEMPO, S. A., A.B. 1932 114 Varsity Road, Newark; N. J. 
BRODERICK, Edward F., LL.B. 1927 Federal Trust Bldg., 24 Commerce St . Newark, N. J. 
BRYCE, Alfred L.. M.E. 1921 9SS Broad St. Newark, N. J. 
BUSH, Hardy J.. LL.B. 1915 475 Washington St, Newark, N. J. 
BYRNE, Jr., Joseph, el. 1915 45 Clinton St., Newark, N. J. 
COLARUSSO, Sam A., A.B. 1929 576 Sanford Ave., Newark, N. J. 
COSGROVE, John F.. B.S. 1929 315 Ridge St., Newark, N. J. 
COSTELLO, James C, B.S.M.R 1930 32 S. Tenth St, Newark. N. J. 
CLNNINCHAM, Robert S., Ph.BJ'.C. 1924 645 Summer Ave., Newark, N. J. 
DUMPEBT, John J., B.G.S. 1934 S Belgium St., Newark. N. J. 
FAGAN, James R, B.C.S. 1934 33 Dover St, Newark, N. J. 
FROEUCH, G. A.. A.B. 1927 74 Ingraham Place, Newark, N. J. 
GILLIGAN, Eugene F., os. 1922 40 Finley Place, Newark, N. J. 
GRASSO, Anthony P., B.S. 1933 352 Fairmont Ave., Newark, N. J. 
HAYES. Dr. Gerald W., A.B. 1926 325 SLtth Ave., Newark, N. J. 
HOUGHTON, Walter C, os. 1921, el. 1929 28 Netherwood Place, Newark, N. J. 
KARL, William C , B.S-M.E. 1931 • 46 Seymour, Newark. N. J. 
KASKIW, Eugene A., B.S. 1933 600 High St. Newark. N. J. 
JHLBAUER, Frank A., B.S.Agric. 1925 32 Gladstone Ave., Newark, N. J. 
MURPHY, William F., A.B. 1032 4S6 Market St, Newark, N. J. 
O'DONNELL. J. J., A.B. 1930 Home Owners* Loan Corp., 20 Washington PI., Newark, N. J, 
PRENDERGAST, Henry J.. A.B. 1933 253 Parker St, Newark, N. J. 
REILLY, Carlton B., B.SJI.E. 1927 23 S. Tenth St, Newark. N. J. 
RILEY, Russell A., A.B. 1928 National Newark & Essex Bldg.. Newark. N. J. 
TROY, Raymond W., B.C.S. 1934 9 Lanark St, Newark, N. J. 
TDTELA, Arthur C. aS. 1933 151 Newton St, Newark, N. J. 
WINTER. Francis C, B.S.M.R 1934 188 Ellery Ave., Newark, N. J. 
NEW BRUNSWICK 

KENNEALLY, Thomas F., A.B. 1930 Brunswick Arms, Apt, 2H, 119 Livingston Ave., New Brunswick. N. J. 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTEE DAJIE ALUMNUS 
WALSH, Arthur D..-Ch.E. 1912 44 Lawrence Ave.. Hichland Park, New Brunswick, N. J. 
NEW LISBON 

GLADEK. Dr. Ralph G.. B.S.Phar. 1923 New Jersey State Colony, New Lisbon, N. J. 
NOTLEY DANIELS. Bert E . os. 1909 18 N. Springardcn Ave., Nutley. N. J. 
ORANGE BROWN, Jr., William F., Ph.B.Cora. 1928 40G S. Center St.. OranEe. N. J. 
BEILLY. •William C, A.B. 1934 499 Fairview Ave., Orange, N. J. 
SCHWANTES, John W.. A.B. 1933 283 S. Center St., Orance, N. J. 
PASSAIC BLANDA, John R., A.B. 1931 487 Passaic Ave., Passaic, N. J. 
FLANNELLY. Thomas J., Ph.B.Com. 1931 166 Gregory Ave., Passaic, N. J. 
McDEVITT, Harlcy L., Ph.B.Com. 1929 48 Howe Ave.. Passaic, N. J. 
HcGRATH, John T., A.B. 1932 66 Henry St., Passaic, N. J. 
O'BRIEN, Jr., William A., A.B. 1928 268 Boulevard, Passaic, N. J. 
SULLIVAN. John F., A.B. 1931 43 Passaic St, Passaic, N. J. 
WHITE, John P.. A.B. 1933 178 Lafayette Ave., Passaic, N. J. 
PATERSON ABBOTT, John V., os. 191S, el. 1930 
P. O. Box 2011, Patcrson, N. J. 

CAPTEB, Albert J., B.S. Phys.Ed. 1932 14 Arch St., Paterson, N. J. 
CONTI, Anthony J., A.B.Phys.Ed. 1932 92 Mill St., Paterson, N. J. 
DOOLEY. C. C, OS. 1917. el. 1929 244 ErBhth Ave., Paterson, N. J. 
FERRARI, S. T., B.S. 1934 105 Beech St., Patcrson, N. J. 
FOLKS, Jr., T. John, A.B. 1930 488 E. 33rd St., Paterson, N. J. 
HINCHCLIFEE, Richard A., A.B. J 928 1035 Main St., Paterson, N. J. 
JtANZIONE, Frank A., B.S. 1930 105 Union St, PaUrson, N. J. 
NEUBAUER. John J., A.B. 1933 100 E. Fifth St, Paterson, N. J. 
FHELAN, J. Edward, A.B. 1931 678 E. 24th St, Paterson, N. J. ^ 
SCHWABZ. C. J., B.S.Ch.B. 1934 122 Preakness Ave., Paterson, N. J. 
WEHRLEN. Herbert J., Ph.B.Com. 1932 857 E. 22nd St, Paterson, N. J. 
PEDEICKTOWN LEONARD, James R., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1934 Pedricktown, N. J. 
PENNINGTON MEREDITH, Georee E., Ph.BJFor.Com. 1921 21 Eglantine, Pennington, N. J. 
PENNS GROVE BOWLUS, Harold, B.S.Chem.E. 1929 Jackson Laboratories, Dupont Company, Penns Grove, ^N. J. 
FOOHEY. William L., B.S.Ch.E. 1926 2 Riverside Apts., Penns Grove, N. J. 
PERTH AMBOY 

AUGUSTINE, Gilbert P., A.B. 1932 471 New Brunswick Ave., Perth Amboy, N. J. 
BALOG, Michael J., B.C.S. 1934 339 Herbert St, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
BOHNSACK. Harold F., A.B. Phys. E. 1932 162 Jefferson St, Perth Amboy. N. J. 
CERES. Anthony V., A.B. 1928 440 Bradhend Place, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
CONNELLY. Richard, os. 1031 200 Market St, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
GIUFFRE, Anthony J., A.B. 1932 428 Washington St. Perth Amboy, N. J. 
HKUBEC. Theodore T.. B.S.E.E. 1929 643 Elizabeth St, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
KOKOWICZ. Stanley E., B.S. 19.^ 219 Sherman St, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
LlSICKl. John E., A.B. 1931 292 Hail Ave., Perth Amboy, N. J. 
LUKATS. Ladd M.. B.S. 1927 160 Broad St, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
LUKATS, Nicholas P.. A.B. 1934 160 Broad St, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
REAGER. John J., B.S.C.E. 1929 698 Elizabeth St, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
TOBRELL, Russell K, B.C.S. 1933 317 Silver St, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
WATERS, Albert G.. A.B. 1932 91 Payette St, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
WATERS, Raymond F., A.B. 1934 91 Fayette St, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
PHILLIPSBURG BOURNE, Ben, B.SJI.E. 1926 681 Barrymore, Phillipsbunr, N. J. 
PLAINFIELD CLE.MENT, Henry W., os. 192S. el. 1931 
Y. M. C. A., Plainfield, N. J. 

HINSENKAMP, Henry E., os. 1928. el. 1931 318 W. Seventh St. Plainfield, N. J. 
KIELY. John B.. A.B. 1933 416 E. Fifth St, Plainfield, N. J. 
MCDONOUGH. Andrew L.. LL.B. 1919 
W. Front St, Plainfield, N. J. 

MCDONOUGH, Peter J.. os. I9I8. el. 1930 119 W. Front St. Plainfield, N. J. 
RIGANTE, M. J.. B.C.S. 1934 420 Madison Ave., Plainfield, N. J. 
PORT READING COOPER. John J., A.B. 1932 Cliff Road. Port Reading, N. J. 
RAHWAY QlnNN. James T., A.B. 1927 73 Stanton St, Rahway, N. J. 
SILVER, James F.. Ph.B.Com. 1926 Lake Ave., Rahway, N. J. 
RED BANK CARTON, Lawrence A., A.B. 1929 8 Mohawk Ave., Red Bank, N. J. 
CARTON, Richard C. Ph.B.Com. 1933 Minnesink Park, Red Band, N. J. 
KENNEDY. Martin F.. A.B. 1932 206 Branch Ave., Red Bank. N. J. 
McCLAIN. Francis M., Ph.B.Com. 1932 47 Foster St, Red Bank, N. J. 
RIDGEWOOD BEASLEY. Howard C, Ph.B.Com. 1931 388 Goodwin St, Ridgewood. N. J. 
ROCHELLE JIASTEBSON. Frank J.. LL.B. 1927 43 E. Second Ave., Rochelle, N. J. 
ROSELLE EWING. Joseph H., A.B. 1932 120 E. First St, Eoselle, N. J. 
EWING. Neal H.. A.B. 1884, AM. 1887 120 E. First St, Boselle, N. J. 
RAU. Eugene G.. B.S.C.E. 1933 316 Second Ave., E., Roselle, N. J. 
RUMSON NARY. Francis J., A.B. 1934 144 E. River Road. Rumson, N. J. 
RUTHERFORD BUFFER. Charles C. B.S.C.R 1928 12 W. Passaic. Rutherford. N. J. 
WINBERRY. John J.. A.B. 1928 260 Park Ave.. Rutherford, N. J. 
SEA ISLE CITY FORD. Carl B., B.S. 1933 14 48th St . Sea Isle City. N. J. 
SECAUCUS ARTHUR. Edward L.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1930 148 Centre Ave.. Secaucus, N. J. 
SHREWSBURY ECK, Vincent J_ BJirch. 1915 Shrewsbury. N. J. 
McCUE. Vincent J.. A.B. 1930 Broad St. Shrewsbury, N. J. 
SOMERVILLE LUSARDI, Donald L., A.B. 1933 194 Main St, Somerville, N. J. 
SOUTH ORANGE CARLTON, Joseph R.. B.S.E.E. 1901 23 Holland Road. South Orange, N. J. 
CARTER, William K, A.B. 1927 68 Fourth St, South Orange, N. J. 
COLRICK, John T., as. 1930 608 Hamilton Road, South Orange, N. J. 
DUGGAN, Edward L.. LL.B. 1926 314 Academy St, South Orange, N. J. 
DUBKIN. Joseph A.. A.B. 1934 322 Montrose Ave., South Orange. N. J. 
SIcCANN, Francis C. B.C.S. 1934 50 S. Center St, South Orange, N. J. 
QUIRK. C. R., B.S.RE. 1934 220 Ridgewood Road, South Orange. N. J. 
SAUSVILLE, C. F., BJVrch. 1934 388 Beech Spring Road, South Orange, N. J. 
TEANECK CONWAY. William J.. B.S. 1927 246 Lindbergh Blvd.. Teaneck, N. J. 
TRENTON MORGAN. Peler J., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1929 322 W. State St, Trenton, N. J. 
KYAN, Jr.. Uiomas F.. LL.B. 1926 275 Spring St, Trenton, N. J. 
SALMON. T. G.. A.B. 1931 443 Bellvne St. Trenton. N. J. 
WALDRON. T. H.. A.B. 1934 938 Berkeley Ave.. Trenton. N. J. 
YEAGER. Dr. Leslie A.. B.S. 1917 470 Hamilton Ave.. Trenton. N. J. 
UNION CITY SFERRA, Amedeo G.. A.B. 1932 c-o Automatic Heating Corporation, 226 Summit Ave., Union City, N. J. 
VERONA O'KEEFFE, A. E.. B.S. 1933 7 Mountain Road. Verona. N. J. 
WEEHAWKEN HAUSMANN, J. H.. B.C.S. 1931 730 Boulevard E.. Wcehawken, N. J. 
WESTFIELD BLIND. William C„ A.B. 1932 709 Boulevard. Westfield, N. J. 
DONNELLY. James A.. A.B. 1933 540 Mountain Ave.. Westfield, N. J. 
GILLESPIE, Howard J., A.B. 1934 546 Alden Ave., Westfield, N. J. 
HARRINGTON. Paul J., B.S.Ch.£. 1926 111 Tiidor Oval, Westfield, N. J. 
WEST ORANGE JANDOU. Leslie C, B.C.S. 1934 140 RolUnson St. West Orange. N. J. 
McDONOUGH. Robert J.. A.B. 1934 50 Forest Hill Road. West Orange, N. J. 
WESTWOOD O'CONTJOK, John P„ RSJlsric 1929 
R. F. D. 1. Wcstwood, N. 3. 

WOODBRIDGE PFEIFFEB. Edward L., Ph.B.Com. 1929 S06 RidKednle Ave., Woodbridse, N. J. 
WOODBTJRY BLEEG. John P., B.S.Chem.E. 1932 111 N. Broad St, Woodhury, N. J. 
NEW MEXICO 

ALBUQUERQUE HEBENSTREIT. Anton R.. C.E. 1911 
P. O. Box 592, Albuquerque, N. Hex, 

LARBAZOLO, Jr., Octaviano A., M.E. 1920 409 W. Iron, Albuquerque, N. Mex. 
JIURPHY. Robert Q.. A.B. 1926 
R. R. 2, Box 1470, Albuquerque. N. Mex-

LAS CRUCES LUCERO. Henry J.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1931 13S AV. Luccro Ave., Las Graces, N. Mex. 
1.AS VEGAS TRUDER, Thomas V., Ph.B. 1916. I,I,.B. 1920 Romero Bide.. Las Vegas, N. Mex. 
RATON SCANLOX. John R.. LL.B. 1927 422 S. Sixth St, Raton, N. Mex. 
SAKTA FE WOOD, Bernard P., LL.B. 1928 558 Canyon Road, Santa Fe, N. Max. 
SILVER CITY 

BRANCHEAU, Raymond J., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1934 New Mexico State Teachers College, Silver City, N. Mex. 
SNYDER. Chauncie L.. LL.B. 1925 Silver City, N. Mex. 
WATROUS TIPTON, William R., BJirch. Cedvito Ranch, "Watrous, N. Mex. 
NEVADA 

RENO ­CARVILLE, Hon. Edward P.. LL.B. 1909 301 First National Bank Bldg., Reno. Nev. 
DISKIN. Hon. Michael A., LL.B. 1907 Reno, Nev. 
NEW YORK 

ALBANY ABBOTT. Joseph A., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1930 New P. 0., Albany, N. Y. 
ANGELINO. Joseph S., LL.B. 1929 163 Hamilton St, Albany, N. Y. 
CAMPBELL, John F., A.B. 1926 95 Winthrop Ave., Albany, N. Y. 
CANAVAN. Harold V., Ph.B.Com. 1928 519 Morris St, Albany, N. Y. 
DISNEV. Francis X.. A.B. 1923 263 Manning Blvd., Albany, N. Y. 
ECKERT, Edward J.. B.C.S. 1933 5 Lawnbridge Ave., Albany, N. Y­
FARLEV, Thomas F., B.C.S. 1927 57 N. Pine Ave.. Albany, N. Y. 
LEAHEV", Thomas F., B.C.S. 1930 446 Second Ave., Albany, N. Y. 
SLIYER, Leonard F., M.E. 1918 Commercial Dept, 126 State St, Albany, N. Y. 
McLAUGHUN. Edward J., Ph.B.F.C. 1924 117 Cardinal Ave., Albany. N. Y. 
O'BRIEN, Walter A., Ph.B.Com. 1931 131 Kent St, Albany, N. Y. 
O'NEILL. L. T., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1934 393 Elk St, Albany, N. Y. 
SKHTH. John V., Ph.B.For.Com. 1929 252 Rrst St, Albany. N. Y. 
TOUHEY, Clare L., A.B. 1926 601-03 National Savings Bank Bldg.. Albany, N. Y. 
ALBION CROWLEY, C. W., A.B. 1931 West Ridge Road, Albion, N. Y. 
MONACELLI. Albert H., A.B. 1934 10 Hcrricfc St, Albion, N. Y. 
MOORE, Charles W., B.C.S. 1930 
K. F. D. 7, Albion, N. Y. 

OWENS, George S., B.C.S. 1932 197 S. Main St, Albion, N. Y. 
RYAN, James H., A.B. 1920 13 Beaver St. Albion, N. Y. 
AMITrVILLE BRADLEY, Dr. Daniel J., B.S. 1928 123 Bayview Ave., Amityville, L.I., N. Y. 
CHADWICE, James H.. B.S.C.B. 1932 43 Greene Ave., Amityville, N. Y. 
ANGOLA O'MARAH, J. Franklin, B.C.S. 1930 101 Lake Ave., Angola, N. Y. 
ARCADE CONNORS, Francis H., A.B. 1928 Arcade, N. Y. 
ASTORIA FFRENCH. John P.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1934 3606 30th St, Astoria, L.I., N. Y. 
YANULEWICZ. Michael J.. A.B. 1929 23-07 32nd St, Astoria, L.I., N. Y. 
AUBURN BOHRMAN, Charles D., B.S. 1930 6 Cady St., Auburn, N. Y. 
CARR, Louis J., B.SJa.E. 1928 IS Burt Ave., Auburn, N. Y. 
COWEN. John A.. Ph.B.Journ. 1924 4 Harrington Terrace, Auburn. N. Y. 
DONOGHUE, Francis C. B.S.E.E. 1933 203 S. Seward St, Auburn, N. Y. 
KILEY. John P., A.B. 1931 8 Park Ave., Auburn, N. Y. 
LONG, Charles! W., B.S. 1931 120 North St. Auburn. N. Y. 
MAYWALT, George O.. B.S. 1932 75 Hamilton Ave.. Auburn. N. Y. 
MCLVANEY. James L., Ph.B.For.Com. 1931 237 Woodlawn Ave., Auburn, N. Y. 
SHAMON. G. B., A.B. 1931 18 Derby Ave., Auburn, N. Y. 
SULLIVAN, John C Ph.B.For.Com. 1931 113 Washington St. Auburn, N. Y. 
SULLIVAN, Walter T., B.S. 1932 113 S. Hoopes Ave., Auburn, N. Y. 
AUBURNDALE DRISCOLL. Paul J., A.B. 1929 4215 lS9th St, Aubumdale, L.I., N. Y. 
AVON BISER, William A., B.C.S.For.Com. 1929 28 Wadsworth Ave., Avon, N. Y. 
BRENNAN. Karl T.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1930 34 Wadsworth Ave., Avon, N. Y. 
PRINZI, Siimuel J., B.Sja.E. 1927 Avon, N. Y. 
BALLSTON SPA McNASIEE. Ronald J.. LittB. 1924 80 Church Ave., Ballston Spa. N. Y. 
BATAVLA CASEY. Lawrence T.. A.B. 1925 307 Washington Ave., Batavia, N. Y. 
KEARNEY, Joseph J., Ph.B.Com. 1931 227 Jackson St, Batavia, N. Y. 
MOYNIHAN. Thomas C, B.S.KE. 1934 70 Franklin St Batavia. N. T. 
MURRAY, James W.. LL.B. 1931 39 Prospect Ave.. Batavia. N. Y. 
NEVILLE. William J.. LL.B. 1925 5 Norris Ave., Batavia. N. Y. 
O'DONNELL, Edmund M.. A.B. '33. LL.B. '34 31 Vernon Ave.. Batavia. N. Y, 
VOYER, Russel E.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 Batavia. N. Y. 
BAYSIDE JACKSON. John W.. B.S. 1932 3824 Storm St. Bayside. L.I...N. Y. 
TUOHY, Albert J.. A.B. 1931 3629 201st St. Bayside, LJ., N. Y. 
BAY SHORE COLLINS. Russel W., B.S.E.E. 1928 34 Fifth Ave., Bay Shore. L.L, N. Y. 
BEACON ASTONE, Victor C, A.B. 1934 
S. Cedar St, Beacon, N. Y. • 

BELLE HARBOR LENIHAN, Joseph V., Ph.B.Com. 1929 
153 Beach 131st St. 
Belle Harbor. L.I., N. Y. 

O'CONNELL, Dennis J., A.B. 1934 177 Beach 131st St , Belle Harbor. LJ.. N. Y. 
BERGAN McPARTLAND. Ambrose C, KS. 1924 Rochester St, Bergnn, N. Y. 
BINGHAMTON AYRES, William D., A.B. 1934 96 Chapin St, Binghamton, N. Y. 
DONNELLY. John F.. A.B. 1934 37 Washington St. Binghamton. N. Y. 
GRIFFIN. Ted J.. A.B. 1929 59 Davis St. Binghamton. N. Y. 
HOGAN. James H.. A.B. 1934 62 Mary St, Binghamton, N. Y. 
HOGAN. William L.. A.B. 1932 62 Mary St. Binghamton. N. Y. 
KANE. Frank P.. B.S. 1929 87 Front St. Binghamton. N. Y. 
KANE. Joseph M.. A.B. 1928 87 Front St. Binghamton. N. Y. 
KENNEDY, Donald M., 03. 1920, el, 1925 91 Grand Blvd.. Binghamton. N. Y. 
McCOKSnCK. A. J.. A.B. 1933 190 Vestal Ave., Binghamton, N. Y. 
McNAMARA, Regis C, B.S.C.E. 1933 13 Crandall St, Binghamton, N. Y. 
OSBORN, Stewart R.. B.C.S. 1934 1216 Crandall St, Binghamton, N. Y. 
PAGE, •William A., os. 1920 182 Hawley St, Binghamton, N. Y. 
T005IEY, Francis J., A.B. 1934 38 Doubleday St. Binghamton. N. Y. 
WACKS. Peter J., A.B. 1930 3 Mary St. Binghamton. N. Y. 
YEAGER, William G.. B.S. 1934 18 Vine St. Binghamton, N. Y. 
BLUE MOUNTAIN LAKE COLLINS. Patrick F.. B.S. 1926 Blue Mountain Lake, N. Y. 
COLLINS. Richard J.. B.S. 1926 Blue Mountain Lake. N. Y, 
COLLINS. Thomas H.. B.S. 1931 Blue Mountain Lake. N. Y. 
BRIGHTON O'CONNOR, PhiUp A.. Ph.BJor.Com. 1928 
257 Avalon Drive. Meadowbrook. ' 
Brighton, N. Y. 

BRIGHTWATER GLEASON, John J., B.C.S. 1934 
N. Windsor Ave., Brightwater, LJ., N. Y. 

SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
SHELANSKEY, Charles J., Ph.B.F.C. 1928 Brightwater, L.I.. N. Y. 
BROCKPOET CORBETT, Donald J.. A.B. 192S 108 Monroe Ave., Brockport, X. Y. 
BRONXVIIiE O'SHAUGHNESSY, Colman B.. A.B. 1932 6 ItcKMey St., Bronxville. N. Y. 
BROOKLYN ANDERSON, John S., A.B. 1930 1717 W. 11th St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
HARTLEY. John A.. LL.B. 1925 231 Berkeley Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
HARTLEY, William N., A.B. 1934 547 S9th St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
BEE, Jr., Peter A., B.S. 1929 447 Seventh St., Brxwklj-n, N. Y. 
BLAKE, Richard V., LL.B. 1913 956 66th St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
BODEN. Georce J„ A.B. 1932 244 Sterlinc St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
BONOMOLO, D. T., B.S. 1931 1340 74th St., Brockls-n. N. Y. 
BOURKE, Edn-ard F., A.B. 1927 667 Park Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
BRACKEN. John J„ A.B. 1934 1372 E. 17th St., Brooklj-n. N. Y. 
BRADLEY. Arthur J., M.A. 1927 2245 Bedford Ave.. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
BRENNAN, Edwin F.. A.B. 1928 350 Fourth St, Brookl>-n. N. Y. 
BRICE, Andrew D„ A.B. 1934 1903 Avenue N, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
BROOKS. William A.. A.B. 1934 527 4Sth St, Brookl>-n, N. Y. 
BRUSCA, Dominick D.. B.S. 1930 468 Prospect Place. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
BURCHELL. Harry M„ A.B. 1934 416 Ocean A^*e.. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
BURGER, Dr. Anthony J.. B.S. 18S0 49G Decatur Ave.. BrookI>-n. I^. Y. 
BURKE. Joseph P.. A.B. 192.T 617 Hacon St. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
BURKE. Thomas A.. A.B. 1926 617 Macon St. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
BYRNE. Georee Dillon. A.B. 1928 295 S t Johns Place, Brooklyn. N. Y. 
CAREY, Vincent F.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 723 K 27th St. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
COLLINS, •IVilliam James. B.C.S. 1934 450 Arsyle Road. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
COOKE. Joseph G.. A.B. 1932 170 Hicks St, Brooklyn. N. Y. 
CRONGEYER. George W.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 313 Clinton Ave., Brooklyn. N. Y. 
CUNNINGS. John J.. A.B. 1930 805 S t Marks Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
DALTON, Thomas P.. A.B. 1934 563 59th St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
DEL PRETE, Louis J., A.B.Phys.Ed. 1932 4106 Second Ave. Brookb-n. N. Y. 
DOYLE. Louis P., M.E. 1919 937 Flatbush Ave.. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
DOYLE, William T.. Ph.B.Com. 1929 1059 E. Second St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
DUFFY, Alfred A., A.B. 1927 45 Kermit Place, Brooklj-n, N. Y. 
DUFFY, Edward C. B.S.M.E. 1930 668 E. 42nd St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
DUNN. Francis G.. A.B. 1930 503 Fourth St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
DWTEB, James F., A3 . 1926 522 B. 24th St, Brooklyn, N, Y. 
ESPOSITO. Louis W., B.S. 1931 456 Prospect Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
FITZGERALD, H. F., A.B. 1934 117 Lincoln St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
FITZGERALD, Thomas V.. B.C.S. 1926 1400 Ocean Ave.. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
GALLIGAN. Thomas A.. A.B. 1932 258 Garfield St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
GABTLAND. Francis B.. A.B. 1934 8070 Narrows Ave.. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
GEL50N, Jr., Norbert J., B.S. 1926 1201 Troy Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
G0R»LIN, Charles A.. A.B. 1903 303'MarIborough Road. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
GREER. J. Walter. B.S.E.E. 1929 240 Crown St. Apt lY. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
GRODEN, Lawrence G.. Ph.B.For.Cbm. 1927 231 Berkeley Place. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
GRU. George J.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1933 245 Garfield St. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
HARTLEY, James J., Ph.B.Com. 1928 2303 Claredon Road. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
HEALY. Eugene P.. A.B. 1934 593 McDonough St . BrooklyTi, N. Y. 
HEFFERNAN. John P.. LL.B. 1922 434 69th St., Brooklyn. N. Y. 
HOXERKAMP, Francis W.. B.C.S. 1934 1084 Prospect Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
JUDGE. Charles E., A.B. 1927 1860 E. 28th St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
JUDGE, William J., LL.B. 1932 1525 E. 15th St, Brooklyn. N. Y. 
KANE. Frank L.. os. 1924. el. 1928 1250 President St. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
KELLY, Edward J.. Ph.B.Com. 1932 1026 President St. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
KELLY. Joseph P., Ph.B.For.Com. 1931 1123 51st St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
KENNEDY. Gene J.. B.C.S. 1930 393 McDonough St. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
KING, Raymond J., os. 1921. el. 1930 956 66th St. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
LATHROP. Ralph J.. LL.B. 1916 130 Clinton St. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
LAURIE. Donald, os. 1930, el. 1932 789 Kenmore Place, Brooklj-n. N. Y. 
LAURIE, Jr.. John D.. os. 1932 789 Kenmore Place. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
LA VERY, Arthur J.. B.S. 1933 616 E. 19th St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
LOFTUS, Thomas A., Ch.E. 1925 9019 F t H-mJIlon Parkway. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
LONG. Ferdinand G.. LL.B. 1S90 722 E. 22nd St. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
LOUGHBEY, Charles M.. B.C.S. 1933 245 E 31st St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
SIARRA. Anthony F.. A.B. 1934 307 Stratford Road. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
MASSnnNE. Ernest E.. Ph.B.Com. 1934 229 Dahill Road. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
McAVOY, John Joseph. A.B. 1933 618 McDonough St. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
McCANN. Arthur J.. A.B. 1930 1059 E. Eighth St, Brooklyn. N. Y. 
McCLEARY, William A.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1929 36 Wellington Court, Brooklyn. N. Y. 
McCOLE, Camille S.. M.A. 1927 St John's College. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
McCOLLUM. Raymond J.. A.B. 1930 Ash & Oakland Sts.. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
MrGAHREN. Francis J., A.B. 1934 553 48th St, Brooklyn. N. Y. 
MCLAUGHLIN. Leo v., A.B. 1932 39 Plaia St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
MORRELL, Jr.. Joseph C. A.B. 1929 1821 Fulton St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
BfULLEN, Myles J., A.B. 1932 132 Lincoln Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
MURPHY. Louis C, Ph.B.For.Com. 1933 1248 E. 23rd St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
MURPHY. William R.. M-A.BoyGuid. 192S 1356 St. Marks Ave.. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
MURRAY. Patrick F., B.S.E.E. 1931 617 Sterling Place. Brook.yn, N. Y. 
NOLAN, Stephen P., B.Arch. 1930 967 68th St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
NULTY, Francis X., A.B. 1932 1620 68th St. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
O'BRIEN. William H.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 905 Union St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
O'ROURKE, Tierney A., A.B. 1931 2069 Nostrand Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
PARKER, James T., B.S.E.E. 1928 
E. & O. Bureau—Distribution Dept.. Brooklyn Edison Co., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
PARKER, William G., A.B. 1927 190 Hancock St, Brooklyn. N. Y. 
REID, William J., A.B. 1926 270 Prospect Place, Brooklyn, X. Y. 
RICK. Robert J.. B.C.S. 1931 1878 E. 12th St.. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
ROSS. James P., B.C.S. 1933 309 Park Place. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
ROSS, John J., A.B. 1932 309 Park Place, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
SCANLON. Raymond J.. Ph.G. 1909 1533 E. 37th St.. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
SCHAEFFNER. Victor J.. B.C.S.For.Com. '33 148 Floyd St. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
SRANAHAN. Dennis J.. B.C.S. 1930 882 E. 27th St. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
SHEA. James F.. A.B. 1933 1477 E. 17th St. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
SRIEBLER. Andrew J.. A.B. 1933 459 S t Johns Place. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
SULUVAN. George L.. E.E. 1920 49 E. 19th St. Brooklyn, N. Y. 

SYLVESTER, Jr.. Harry A.. A.B. 1930 1118 E. 14th St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
TAYLOR, Alfred A„ A.B. 1928 1282 Union St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

THORNTON, Louis J.. B.C.S. 1929 130 Hicks St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
VAN DIKE. John A.. A.B. 1931 84 Madison St. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
WACKSMUTH. F. C. A.B. 1931 260 Prospect Place. Brooklyn. N. Y^. 
WAGNER. Louis E.. Ph.B.C. 1918 1569 B. 28th St. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
WALSH. James J.. A.B. 1930 671 78th St. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
WALSH. •William J.. A.B. 1930 622 79th St, Brooklyn. N. Y. 
WARD. James J.. A.B. 1932 1547 E. 17th St.. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
WEIR, William G., A.B. 1932 117 Norman Ave.. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
WELCH. William H.. Ph.B. 1924 138 Joralemon St., Brooklyn, N. Y'. 
WILUGAN, William L,, A.B. 1932 72 Rutland Road. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
ZIMBIERMAN. Victor L.. A.B. 1928 839 Carroll St. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
BUFFALO BAKER, Edward J., C.E. 1923 30 Monticello Place, Buffalo. N. Y, 
BAKER. James W.. B.SJIin.E. 1934 30 Monticello Place. Buffalo. N. Y. 
BENNETT. Gordon, os. 1926, el. 1930 46 Widdctt Place. Buffalo. N, Y. 

SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
BIRD, Bernard J.. A.B. 1928 51 Cheltenham Drive, Buffalo, N. Y. 
BRAUNSDORF, Joseph A.. B.S.E.E. 192S 2184 Fillmore, Buffalo, New York 
BROBSON. Thomas J.. B.C.S. 1934 481 McKinley Pk\vy., Buffalo, N. Y. 
BURNS. Henry L., Ph.B.Com. 1929 191 JEucIid Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
BURNS, John a, Ph.B.Com. 1927 703 Auburn Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
BURNS. Dr. Robert J., os. 1917. el. 192S 948 Main St., Buffalo, N. Y. 
CASS, William P.. Jr.. B.S.E.E. 1932 675 Richmond Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
COTTER. Laurens P., B. Arch 1930 99 Victoria Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
DAPSON, Georee, Ph.B.Com. 1929 Catholic Club, 506 Delaware Ave. Buffalo. N, Y. 
DONAHUE. Donald M.. I.L.B. 1929 502 Walbridne Bids.. 45 Court St. Buffalo, N. Y. 
DOWDALL. Wm. P.. LL-B. 1929 176 Sanders Rd., Buffalo, N. Y. 
DOYLE. Geo. E., B.C.S. For. Com. 19,10 70 Wade Ave.. Buffalo. N, Y. 
ELSE. Ralph P., B.S.M.E. 1034 278 Voorhces Ave, Buffalo, N. Y. 
FEELEY, Wm. P., C.E. 1906 1100 D. S. Morean BIdir., Buffalo. N. Y. 
FRANK. Carlos H., B.S.E.B. 1933 232 Barton St., Buffalo, N. Y. 
HANSSEL. P. J., B.C.S. 1931 57 TillinBhast PI., Buffalo. N. Y. 
HOEFFLER. Paul D.. B.C.S. 1923 280 Woodward Ave.. Buffalo, N. Y. 
IRWIN, Jas. D.. B.C.S. 1930 216 Crescent Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
KAZUS. Maximilian G., LL.B. 19IS 37 Stewart Ave.. Buffalo, N. Y. 
KENNY.Thom.-is P.. B.C.S.E. 1927 384 Crescent Ave.. Buffalo, N. Y. 
KOEBEL, Martin J., Ph.B.C. 1924 252 Broadway. Buffalo, N. Y. 
LEE, Jay L.. Ph.B. 1912 1509 Liberty Bank Bldg.. Buffalo, N. Y. 
LUTZ, Edmund J., Ph.B.C. 1924 91 Beard Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
MANARD, William H., B.C.S. 1934 2300 Seneca St., Buffalo, N. Y. 
MCCARTHY, E. J. Richardson, LL.B. 1922 414 Elmwood Ave., Buffalo, If. Y. 
McDADB, Walden W., Ph.B.Com. 1927 170 Huntington Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
MOORE, Robert T. B.S.C.E. 1930 2574 Main St., Buffalo, N. Y. 
.MURRAY. Patrick J, C.E. 1919 301 LaSalle Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
O'CONNOR, Edward M., B.S.Vhys. 1932 32 Prairie Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
PERONE, John A., B.S.E.E. 1932 50 Myrtle Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
PRALATOWSKI, P. M. Ch.E. 1916 Dupont Rayon Co., Buffalo, N. Y. 
RICKARD, C. J.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1934 2S6 Cumberland Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
ROESCH, Charles E. Jr., M.E.E.E. 1906 351 Humboldt Parkway, Buffalo, N. Y. 
RUDD, John H., A.B. 1932 29 Colton Drive, Buffalo, N. Y, 
RYAN, Martin A.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 21 Orchard Place, Buffalo, N. Y. 
SCHAHEL, Clyde H., B.S.E.E. 1927 1208 West Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
SCHUBERT, Lawrence P., SJI.E. 1911 17 B. Depcw Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
SHEA, Joseph B. Ph.B.Com. 1926 356 Richmond Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
SWEENEY, Paul E.. Ph.B. 1921 308 Capen Bide., Buffalo, N. Y. 
TRAVERS, John H. Jr., B.C.C. 1933 373 Parksidc, Buffalo, N. Y. 
TRAVERS, Martin J., B.C.S. 1930 373 Parkside. Buffalo. N. Y. 
UEBBING, John, Ph.B. 1924 427 Potomac Ave.. Buffalo. N. Y. 
WARREN. John A.. LL.B. 1923 Liberty Bank Bldg.. Buffalo, N. Y. 
^VIETIG, N. E., B.S.Phy.Ed. 1934 39 Meriden St., Buffalo, N. Y. 
ZUDECK, B H., A.B. 1931 660 Tacoma, Buffalo. N. Y. 
BAILEY. Richard J.. A.B. 1D30 19 3rd St.. Camden. N. Y. 
CANANDAIGUA GARTLAND. James T.. A.B. 1934 24 Greig Terrace. Canandaigua, N. Y. 
TYNER. Richard H., B.S.Ch. 1917 177 Tclyea St.. Canandaisua. N. Y. 
CHATEAUGAY FRANKLIN. John E., B.S. 192S Church St., Chateaugay, N. Y. 
CLYDE .MALOY. K. D., B.C.S. 1932 25 E. Genesee St.. Clyde. N. Y. 
SICURANZO, Anthony J., A.B. 1933 61 Frederick St., Clyde, N. Y. 
COPENHAGEN SCHERER, Alfred C , B.C.S. 1930 236 Woolworth Bldg., Copenhagen, N. Y. 
VAUGHAN, Joseph E.. B.SJI.E. 1934 5 Maple Ave.. Copenhagen. N. Y. 
CORINTH O'BRIEN. Dennis B.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1927 Corinth, N. Y. 
CORNING GANNON. Henry T., B.S. 1934 155 State St.. Corning, JJ. Y. 
GRIFFIN. Peter M.. os. '07 el. '32 15 W. 4th St.. Corning, N. Y. 
.MURPHY, John W., SJiLE. 1908 77 Dennison Park Way, Corning, N Y. 
CORTL,VND CORCORAN, Harry J., Ph.B.For.Com. 1927 82 Port Watson St., Cortland, N. Y. 
JIURPHY, Wm. P.. B.C.S. 1933 135 Tompkins St.. Cortland. N. Y. 
QUIRK. Patrick J.. A.B. 1932 1554 Sands St.. Cortland. N. Y. 
CRESTWOOD PICKS. Jr., Albert, LL.B. 1923 376 Bead Ave., Crestwood, N. Y. 
WALKER, Francis X., A.B. 1930 27 Crestwood Ave., Crestwood, N. Y. 
DANNEMORiV DISCO. Raymond S., A.B. 1931 M.A., Boy Guid., 1933: D.-innemora, N. Y. 
O'BRIEN, Hugh P., M.A. 1933 Danncmora, N. Y. 
DARIEN CENTER DAHLER, Robert P., B.S. 1930 Darien Center, N. Y. 
DOUGLASTON HALL, Harold F., LL.B., 192S 6 Harvard Road, Douglaston, L. I., N. Y. 
DUNKIRK HAYES. Edward J.. B,S.Phys.Ed. 1933 57 Buggies St.. Dunkirk. N. Y. 
EAST HAMPTON FLANNERY, Howard H. B.C.S. 1934 East Hampton, N. Y. 
ELMIRA HOLLERAN, Stephan U., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1933 417 W. Clinton St., Elmira. N. Y. 
O'DEA, James L., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1934 328 W. Seventh St.. Elmira. N. Y. 
ELMHURST CONNELLY, Eugene T.. B.SJIB. 1932 4223 Cleane St., Elmhurst, L. I. N. Y. 
KISSLING, Joseph P., Ph.B.Com. 1928 93^11 Lamont Ave.. Elmhurst. L. I. N. Y. 
LEDDY, John V.. A.B. '29. LL.B.1932 91 Warner Ave.. Elmhurst. L. L. N. Y. 
O'BRIEN, Donald J., A.B. 1929 9323 30th Ave.. Elmhurst. L. L. N. Y. 
CAREY, Joseph H.. B.C.S., 1932 20 Roosevelt Ave.. Endicott N. Y. 
KELLY, Joseph H., A.B. 1929 1003 Monroe St.. Endicott, N. Y. 
SHNER. Wm. A. LL.B. 1922 119 Washington Ave., Endicott. N. Y. 
FAIRPOBT FINNECAN, Francis J.. B.C.S.Por.Com. 1930 17 Orchard. Fairport. N. Y. 
FAR ROCKAWAY GRUNING. Carl H., Ph.B.Com. 1930 1213 Healy Ave.. Far Rockaway. N. Y. 
GRUNING, John E., A.B. 1927 1213 Kealy Ave.. Par Rockaway, N. Y. 
WINKLER. Geo. P., Ph.B.Com. 1930 1522 Far Rockaway Blvd. Par Rockaw.-iy, N. Y. 
FLORENCE CLARK, Louis P.. B.C.S. 1934 Florence, N. Y. 
CLARK, Paul D., B.C.S. 1932 Florence, N. Y. 
FLUSHING DALY, Jas. H., A.B. 1928 4662 I56th St., Flushing. L. I.. N. Y. 
DOHERTY, Jr., Philip J., eU 1930 122 N. 20th St.. Flushing. L. I., N. Y. 
WALSH. Joseph M.. E.E. 1914 149-24 Delaware Ave.. Flushing, L.I., N.Y. 
WARD. Dr. Edward P. Ward. el. 1928 42-14 S. 162nd St., Flushing. L.L, N. Y. 
FOREST HILLS SLAOER. William T., Ph.B.Com. 1932 14 Groton St.. Forest Hills, L.I., N. Y. 
FREEPORT MURPHY, Timothy J., Ph.B.F.C. 1924 35 W. Lincoln Place, Freeport, L.L, N. Y. 
FRIENDSHIP HURLEY. John A.. A.B. 1930 Main St.. Friendship, N. Y. 
PULTON CONLEY, Maurice B.. A.B. 192S 511 Oneida St., Fulton, N. Y. 
GABRIELS RILEY, William E., B.S.EJI 1927 Hotel Riley, Gabriels. N. Y. 
GARDEN CITY DANNESHLLER. Albert, os. 1895. el. 1919 21 Nassau Blvd.. Garden City. N. Y. 
GENEVA CONBOY, Francis J., A.B. 1932 184 High St., Geneva, N. Y. 
DeBOTT, Joseph T.. Ph.B Jor.Com. 1928 171 W. North St. Geneva. N. Y. 
LARSEN, John P.. B.SX.E. 1928 27 N. Wadsworth St, Geneva. N. Y. 
LYDON, Arthur W.. SJI K 1917 160 Lewis St. Geneva. N. Y. 
GLENS FALLS BCBKE. John F.. B.S. 1933 20 Dbc Ave., Glens Falls, N. Y. 
CBONm, Bernard J., A.B. 1934 33 Leonard St., Glens Falls, N. Y. 
QUINN, Charles A., B.C.S. 1933 56 Walnut St., Glens Falls. N. Y. 
QDINN. Hohert G., Ch.E. 1923 69 Sheridan St., Glens Falls. N. Y. 
GOSHEN MARTIN. Francis J.. B.S.E.B. 1933 11 Tusten Ave., Goshen, N. Y. 
BILET, Charles R., B.C.S. 1933 257 Main St., Goshen. N. Y. 
GEOTON CLABE. James F., B.C.S. 1934 116 Lincoln Ave., Groton, N. Y. 
MacPEAK, Gerald C, B.C.S. 1934 218 Spring St., Groton, N. Y. 
HAERISON VASSALLO, Josenh A.. A.B. 1932 Dinsmore St., Harrison, N- Y. 
HAVEESTRAW BIALLEY, Eugene L., B.C.S. 1933 Haverstraw, N. Y. 
HELENA LANTBY. Harry W.. A.B. 1930 Helena, N. Y. 
LANTRY, Thomas F., E.E. 1930 Helena, N. Y. 

HEMPSTEAD BECKELHANN, Charles N., A.B. 1934 179 S. Franklin St., Hempstead, N. Y. 
LLOYD, Richard K.. B.S.C.E. 1927 141 Terrace Ave.. Apt. lA, Hempstead, N. Y. 

HEMPSTEAD GARDENS BOYCE, Raymond P., B.S.E.E. 1932 
S. Linden St, Hempstead Gardens, L.I., N. Y. 
HERKIMER O'CONNOR, Francis J.. B.S.Eai. 1932 402 Prospect St., Herkimer, N. Y. 
HOLUS 
GIORGIO. Douglas J.. B.S. 1934 9005 188th St, Hollis, L.L N. Y. 
GIORGIO, Herhert P.. A.B. 1933 9005 188th St, Hollis, L.L N. Y. 

HUDSON HcDONALO, Duncan S., M.A. 1927 Hudson Boys Club, Hudson. N. Y. 
HUNTINGTON HUISKING, Charles L., A.B. 1934 Vineyard Road. Huntington, L.L, N. Y. 
HUISKING. William W.. A.B. 1934 Vineyard Road, Huntington. L.I., N. Y. 
njON O'SHEA. B. T., A.B. 1931 58 Remington Ave., Ilion, N. Y. 
ITHACA DRISCOLL, Paul A., B.C.S. 1920 423 E. Seneca St, Ithaca, N. Y. 
JACKSON HEIGHTS BASKINS. W. H., B.C.S. 1923 34-10 84th St, Jackson Heights, L.L, N. Y. 
BENEGHAN, Walter J., Short Course. 1922 37-19 83rd St, Jackson Heights, L.I., N. Y. 
JAMAICA FARBELL, Eugene G., A.B. 1928 90-11 149th St, Jamaica, L. I., N. Y. 
FEBBABA, Jerome J., B.S. 1933 18408 Midland Parkway, Jamaica, L.!., N. Y. 
JOHNSON CTTY BENNESSY. Joseph W., Ph.BJor.Com. 1930 22 Fourth St, Johnson City, N. Y. 
KANE. Dr. John W.. B.S. 1926 16 Park St, Johnson City, N. Y. 
MAHAB, Allen H.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1928 53 Arch St, Johnson City. N. Y. 
KENMORE LEONARD. John N.. B.S.Ch.E. 1934 
64. N. End St, Kenmore. N. Y. 
KINGSTON ROACH. Edward J.. B.C.S. 1934 160 O'Neil St, Kingston, N. Y. 
LAKE PLACID CANTWELL, Leo J.. Ph.B. 1926 Lake Placid High School, Lake Placid, N. Y. 

LARCHMONT ADASIS, M. Clay, A.B. 1932 1 Wendt Ave.. Larchmont, N. Y. 
HAMMER. Thomas A.. A.B. 1906 Iden & Larchmont Ave., Larchmont, N. Y. 
LINDEN. F. v.. Spec Z90 Rockingstone Ave., Larchmont, N. Y. 
LIMA GLEASON, James H.. B.C.S. 1934 
E. Main St. Lima. N. Y. 

O'CONNELL. Bernard M., B.C.S. 1929 
W. Main St, Lima, N. Y. 

LITTLE FALLS DOBINSKT, John K.. B.S.Ch.E. 1934 95 W. Main St, Little Falls, N. Y. 
VAN ALLEN. F D.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1934 5 Weber St. Little Falls. N. Y. 
LIVONIA JIURPHY. Walter J., Ph.B.Com. 1931 27 Linden St. Livonia. N. Y. 
LOCKPORT RYAN, Frederic. B.S.Ch.E. 1930 693 E Ave.. Lockport. N. Y. 
LONG BEACH GRADY, Lester C, A,B. 1927 261 W. Market St. Long Beach. N. Y. 
HOWARD, John J.. A.B. 1928 169 E. Chester St. Long Beach, N. Y. 
SHANLEY, Edward J., os. 1924, el. 1932 331 W. Walnut St, Long Beach, N. Y. 
SHANLEY, Joseph B.. B.S.M.E. 192G 326 W. Walnut St. Long Beach, N.Y. 
LONG ISLAND aT Y DAUNT. William A., os. 1905. el. 1927 41-20 37th St. Long Island City, N. Y. 
WOLF, Lester J., E-E. 1925 2116 43rd Ave., Long Island City, N. Y. 
LYNBROOK ROSS. James R., A.B. 1934 201 Bixley Heath. Lynbrook. L. I. N. Y. 
MALONE BROWN, William P., A.B. 1932 7 S t Mark's Ave., Malone, N. Y. 
DAIGNEAULT, Jr.. Joseph J., A.B. 1929 17 E. Main St, Malone, N. Y. 
DAIGNEAULT, Lucien J., B.C.S. 1934 17 E. Main St. Malona N. Y. 
DESNOYERS, Harold B.. B.S.E.E. 1934 9 State St, Malone, N. Y. 
McKEE, Henry G.. Ph.B.Com. 1934 111 Academy St. Malone, N. Y. 
TACKLEY, M. C, A.B. 1934 96 W. Main St. Malone. N. Y. 
TURNER, Ralph M., A.B. 1934 34 Wellington St. Malone, N. Y. 
MANHASSET BECEMAN, Edward J., Ph.BJoum. 1916 Center Drive. Manhasset L.I., N. Y. 
MARLBOROUGH SCILLA. Joseph V.. B.S. 1929 Old Post Road, Marlborough, N. Y. 
MASSENA TTO, Clayton F.. A.B. 1929 99 E. Onris St, Massena. N. Y. 
MEDINA FAY. Joseph T., B.S.EJL 1930 503 Ann St, Medina, N. Y. 
SLACK. C. R., B.C.S. 1931 413 Catherine St, Medina, N. Y. 
SLACK. Robert M.. B.C.S. 1934 400 West Ave, Medina. N, Y. 
MIDDLEPORT HONAHAN, Robert M.. A.B. 1934 46 Park Ave.. Middleport, N. Y. 
SEAMAN. Paul H.. A.B. 1933 Middleport, N. Y. 
HINEOLA QUINN. Charles F.. A.B. 1934 187 Harrison Ave., Mineola, N. Y. 
MONTICELLO WILLIS. Joseph F.. A.B. 1932 Washington Heights. Monticello, N. Y. 
MOUNT MORRIS CULLEN, Joseph R., A.B. 1930 30 Chapel St, Mount Morris, N. Y. 
MOUNT VERNON BALFE. John T.. Ph.B.Com. 1920 220 Sheridan Ave.. Mount Vernon. N. Y. 
CARIDEO. James V.. B.S.C.E. 1933 119 N. Fifth Ave., Mount Vernon, N. Y. 
DALY. Thomas Patrick. B.S.Ch.E. 1934 55 Claremont Ave., Mount Vernon, N. Y. 
DAVIS, Frederick N.. A.B. 1930 424 S. Columbia St, Mount Vernon, N. Y. 
DWYEB. Thomas A.. B.C.S. 1934 105 Lorraine Ave,. Mount Vernon, N. Y. 
BATCH. Glenn M.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 445 Gramatan Ave.. Apt K-C 2. Mount Vernon, N. Y. 
HENRY. John J.. A.B. 1934 301 S. Sixth Aire, Mount Vernon. N. Y. 
WARDELL. James W., B.C.S. 1932 240 N. Fulton Ave., Mount Vernon. N. Y. 
WENZEL, William. E.E. 1920 III N. Eighth St. Mount Vernon. N. Y. 
NARROWSBUEG 

GBATTAN, Harold A., A.B. 3933 Educational Advisor. 1245 Co. C.C.C.. Camp 65, N. Y.. Narrowsburg. N. Y. 
NEWARK COWLES, Albert B.S. 1931 20 Harrison St, Newark, N. Y. 
BANEY. Joseph A.. A.B. 1928 217 E. Union St, Newark, N. Y. 
HANEY. Louis F.. Ph.B.Com. 1929 217 E. Union St. -Newark. N. Y. 
KLEFEKER, Joseph A.. A.B. 1934 116 Grant St, Newark, N. Y. 
SOFEB, Bobert L.. A.B. 1931 206 W. Maple Ave.. Newark. N. Y. 
NEWBUHGH ALT, Cornelius A.. Ch.E. 1923 16 Farrell St, Newburgh, N. Y. 
BAILEY. William D.. Ch.E. 1924 14 Galloway Ave., Newburgh, N. Y. 
FLANAGAN. John H.. LL.B. 1930 Cochecton Turnpike. Newburgh. N. Y. 
NEWPORT BUBKE. G. Gullen, Fh.B.C. 1923 Newport, N. Y. 
NEW ROCHELLE ALUNGHAH, George £., A.B. 1933 70 Brookside Place, New Rochelle, N. Y. 
COTTEB. WUIiam E.. LL.B. 1913 80 Prairie Ave., New Rochelle. N. Y. 
DEHPSEY, Edward J., B.S.E.E. 1930 1273 North Eoad, New Rochelle, N. Y. 
FALLON, Francis X.. A.B. 1933 280 Clinton Ave., New Rochelle, N. Y. 
HARTNETT, Joseph P., A.B. 1929 21 Laurel Place. New Rochelle, N. Y. 
LeSTRANGE, Henry G.. Ph.B-For.Com. 1927 495 Forest Ave., Larchmont Woods, New Rochelle, N. Y. 
LYONS, •William T., B.S.M.E. 1932 228 Trenoc Drive, New Rochelle, N. Y. 
KURIANO, Jr.. Joseph A., B.C.S. 1929 199 Union Ave., New Rochelle, N. Y. 
SURTIN, H. v.. B.S.E.E. 1931 17 Coliqui Ave., New Rochelle, N. Y. 
McCANN, Jr.. James D.. A.B. 1932 251 Huguenot St., New Rochelle. N. Y. 
ROSSIE, Thomas A., OS. 1930 158 Lyncroft Road, New Rochelle, N. Y. 
SHEILS, Jr., W. J.. A.B. 1931 153 Meadow Lane, New Rochelle, N. Y. 
TORRES, Jesse N.. Ph.C. 1923 175 Division St., New Rochelle, N. Y. 
NEW YORK CITY 

ANDREWS, Maurice T., os. 1915, el. 1926 Street & Smith Publications, 79 Seventh Ave., New York City 
ANTUS, John J., A.B. 1928 215 W. 13th St., New York City 
ARGDESO, Louis M.. os. 1918, el. 192G 106 Wall St., New York City 
BARTONE, Noel F., B.S. 1933 6 Charles St.. New York City 
BENITZ, Paul A.. B.S. 1927 217 B. 176th St.. Apt. IE.. New York City 
BENITZ, Timothy E.. A.B. 1932 54 W. 75th St., New York City 
BENITZ, William H.. A.B. 1925 54 W. 75th St., New York City 
BERGEN, Arthur C, A.B. 1931 186 W. 180th St.. New York City 
BERKERY, Ted. A.B. 1927 1142 Madison Ave., New York City 
BOUCHER, Fred J., LL.B. 1912 c-o American Printers, 122 Centre, New York City 
BRADLEY, Thomas J.. A.B. 1930 525 W. 238th St.. New York City 
BRENNAN, L. T., B.S.E.E. 1931 309 W. 21st. St.. New York City 
BRICK, Daniel J., B.C.S. 1934 639 E. 234th St., New York City 
BROEKER, Bernard D., A.B. 1930 c-o Cravath. de Gersdorn, 15 Broad St.. New York City 
BROWN, James S„ Ph.B.For.Coni. 1927 102 W. 93rd St.. New York City 
BUCHHOLZ, Donald, OS. 1927 c-o Swart, Brent & Co., 25 Broad St., New York City 
BUTTERWORTH, Charles B., LL.B. 1924 11 E. 44th St., New York City. 
CALL, Charles W., Ph.B.Joum. 191S 8 E, 13th St.. New York City 
CALL, Leonard M.. B.S. 1920 969 Eighth Ave.. New York City 
CALLAGY, MarUn V., A.B. 1928 135 E. 30th St, New York City 
CANTY, Thomas G., Ph.B.Com. 1929 34 W. 69th St, New York City 
CARBERRY. Glen M., LL.B. 1923 Athletic Dept, Fordham University, New York City 
CARROLL. HuEh F., A.B. 1934 244 E. 32nd St.. New York City. 
CASSINNELLI, F., os. 1912, el. 1931 Great Northern Hotel, 118 W. 57th St, New York City 
CLUVER, Henry J., B.S.E.B. 1933 161 W. 100th St, New York City 
CONMEY, James J., B.C.S.ror.Com. 1928 601 W 115th St. Apt 33, New York City 
CONNELLY, P W., os. 1921, el. 1932 c-o Standard Accident Insurance Co., Ill John St, New York City 
CONNER, George B.. B.S.E. 1928 
Austin Mabazine, 10th Ave., at 36th St, 
New York City 
CONNOLLY, Charles C. os. 1915, el. 1932 325 E. 79th St. New York City 
CRAUGH. Gerald J.. A.B. 1921 15 Broad St. New York City 
CRONIN. Lawrence T.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1930 320 W. 87th St. New York City 
CRONIN, William F., Ph.B.Com. 192S 1600 Broadway, New York City 
CUDDIHY, J. Gerald. Ph.B.Com. 1923 42 Broadway, New York City 
CULLEN. Harry J.. Ph.B.Com. 1923 
H. J. Cullen & Co., 25 Broadway, New York City 
CULLINEY, Lawrence J., Ph.B.F.C. 1928 635 W. 115th St. New York City 
CUNNINGHASr. Jr.. Daniel F., A.B. 1927 444 W. 14th St. New York City 
CUNNINGHAM. Thomas P.. A.B. 1930 223 E. 17th St., New York City 
CURRY, James M., A.B. 1929 938 Chrysler Bldg.. New York City 
CUSICK, Aldcn J., LL.B. 1921 585 Gerard Ave., New York City 
DALY, John F., os. 1898. el. 1920 Roosevelt Hotel. New York City 
DALY, Robert E., E.E. 1916 12 E. SSth St., New York City 
DeBARBY, Charles O., BJVrch. 1924 1142 Madison Ave., New York City 
DEVINE, James J., os. 1910 500 Fifth Ave.. New York City 
DiGIORGIO. Philip P.. B.C.S. 1930 215 E. 73rd St. New York City 
DOERFLER. Arthur F.. A.B. 1934 1 W. S9th St. New York City 
DONNELLY. Walter A.. A.B. 1920 4475 Waldo Ave., New York City 
DORWIN, Oscar J.. Ph.B. 1917 The Texas Co., 135 E. 42nd St.. New York City 
DOUGLAS. Walter J., E.E. 1920 605 W. 132nd St, New York City 
DUNN, Joseph J.. B.C.S. 1932 2412 Webster Ave., New York City 
DUNNIGAN, James J.. A.B. 1934 2728 Spuyten Duyvil Parkway, Now York City 
DURBIN, Stephen A.. B.S.E.E. 1929 570 Lexington Ave.. Ne%v York City 
ELLSWORTH, Edward C. B.C.S. 1931 77 Park Ave., New York City 
ESPOSITO, Joseph P.. A.B. 1934 263 E. 142nd St, New York City 
EYANSON, Francis E., LittB. 1896 176 Broadway, New York City 
FALLON, Edward A., A.B. 1926 2 Lafayette St, New York City 
FINNERAN, Gerard L.. A.B. 1933 23 Haven Ave., New York City 
FINNERAN. John F., B.S. 1933 1439 University Ave., New York City 
FISCHER, Victor William, B.S.C.E. 1928 2870 Marion Ave., New York City FITZGERALD. William F., A.B. 1932 50 W. 104th St, New York City 
FLANAGAN, Simeon T.. LL.B. 1914 60 E. 42nd St, New York City 
FOGEL. Warren S., A.B. 1930 939 Woodycrest Ave., Apt 210, New York City 
FRAINO, Anthony J., A.B. 1930 830 Tinton Ave., Bronx, New York City 
FREY. Henry R., A.B. 1930 1226 Tinton Ave., New York City 
GALL, Alfred, os. 1931. el. 1932 306 Varick House. 11 Dominick St.. New York City 
GANSAUGE, S. A., B.S.Phar. 1931 223 E. 48th St, New York City 
GREELEY, J. Joseph, MJl. 1927 344 Lexington Ave., New York City 
GUERIN, John P.. A.B. 1932 560 Audubon Ave., Ne%v York City 
HALPIN, Daniel D., A.B. 1931 3029 Bricgs Ave., Apt 2A, New York City 
HAinLL, William H., B.S. 1930. M.S. 1931 367 E. 187th St, New York City 
HAUHLTON, Robert A., Ph.B.Com. 1928 1064 Woodycrest Ave., Bronx, New York City 
HAMMER, Hon. Ernest E., A.B. 1904 County Court House. New York City 
HAYES, James F., LittB. 1924 Fifth Avenue Association, Empire State Bldg., New York City 
HAYES. John J., A.B. 1934 441 West End Ave., New York City 
HAYES. Joseph I., B.SJJJ!. 1934' 100 E. Mosholn Parkway S., Bronx, New York City 
HINKEL, John V., A.B. 1929 New York Times, New York City 
ROLLERAN, F. Joseph, el. 1931 c-o National City Bank. 41st S t & Broadway, New York City 
HOWE, Paul A., A.B. 1933 501 W. 17Sth St, New York City 
HOYT. Jr.. John A., B.C.S. 1933 2523 University Ave., New York City 
HURLBEBT. James F., A.B. 1928 1070 Ogden Ave., Bronx, New York City 
HYLAND. Richard V.. CJ!. 1918 c-o Madigan-Hyland. 11 W. 42nd St, New York City 
JENNEY, Dr. John A., B.S. 1920 New York Polytechnic Hospital, 341 W. 50th St, New York City 
JORDAN, John A., B.C.S. 1932 2412 Webster Ave., New York City 
KASCHEWSI3, Karl A., Ph.BJor.C6m. 1929 
W. R, Grace & Co., 7 Hanover Square, New York City 
READY, Dr Maurice. B.S. 1919 230 Park Av e New York City 
KEEFE. Lawrence V.. B.C.S. 1926 Lily-Tulip Cup Corporation. Chanin Bids., New York City 
KELLY, William W., A.B. 1928 180 W. 81st St, New York City 
KENNY, Francis P., os. 1917 302-8 Dyckman St, New York City 
KNOWLES, William J , M.A. 1927 448 W. 56th St, New York City 
LAVELLE, John S., A.B. 1923 938 St. Nicholas Ave., New York City 
LEVINS. John P., B.SJPhys.Ed. 1934 984 Woodycrest Ave, New York City 
LORDI, Joseph J., A.B. 1930 64 W. 98th St, New York City 
LOVE, A. Leo. Pli.B.Com. 1930 411 W. 114th St. New Yorlc City 
MAHON. Edward J.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1931 1478 Rosedale St. Now York City 
itURSRALL, William J. T , M.E. 191S 2320 Lodrick Ave., Bronx. New York City 
McADAMS, Henry J.. A.B. 1925 135 E. 42nd St. Chrysler Bids.. . New York City 
McCABE, Hcrhert P.. B.S.M.E. 192S 60 Broadway, Koom 1806, New York Citj-
McCAULEY, Charles J.. LL.B. 1919 The Lombardy. Ill E. 5Sth St, New York City 
MCDONOUGH, Patrick J.. Ph.B. 1903 7 State St, New York City 
McKENNA, John P., LL-B. 1925 66 IVHIiam St. New York Citj-
McMENAMIN, Maurice G.. B.S. 192S 609 W. Il4th St. New York City 
McSIORROW, Walter J.. Ph.B.Com. 1929 2323 DaWdson Ave., Bronx, New York City 
McNAJIARA, Edwin L., B-A.E. 1921 AronberE-Fried Company, 155 E. 44th St, New York City 
JIEEHAN, James R., E.E. 1924 25 Donsan Place, New York City 
SnLLER. Richard C, E.E. 1924 30 Church St., New York City 
MOSS, Henrj- A.. Ph.B.F.Com. 1932 470 W. 169th St. New York City 
MULLEN, John A.. A.B. 1928 Benton & Bowles, Inc., New York Cit>' 
MURPHY, Thomas J., M.A. 1926 3456 Broadway, New York City 
NANOVIC, John L., A.B. 1930 79 Seventh Ave., New York City 
NAUGHTON, Joseph B.. os. 1897. el. 1926 56 Hamilton Place, New York City 
NEARY. William F.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1921 26 Beaver St, New York City 
NEEF, Dr. Frederick E., B.S. '92, LittB. '93. 133 W. 72nd St, LittM. 1S95 New York City 
NUGENT, Joseph P.. B.S.C.E. 1932 237 E. 72nd St, New York City 
OCHS, Howard A.. Ph.B.ror.Com. 1928 S A E Fraternity, B31 W. 113th St, New York City 
O'CONNOR, Jr.. James C. A.B. 1929 324 W. Slst S u New York City 
O'DONNELL, Hugh A.. LittB. 1894 1 W. 67th St, New York City 
O'KANE, Francis J.. B.C.S. 1932 299 Willis Ave., New York City 
O'NEIL, Daniel J., E.E. 1925 430 W. 24th St, New York City 
O'SHEA, L. J.. A.B. 1931 Tatt Hotel, New York City 
ORGERA, Louis L., M.A. 1932 477 Madison Ave., New York City 
PENDLETON, Alfred J., os. 1895 162 W. 72nd St, New York City 
POWERS, David P.. A.B. 1933 2336 Walton Ave,. New York City 
PUGLIESE. Anthony J.. A.B. 1934 411 E. 239th St, New York City 
QUDJN. John D., C.E. 1904 150 W. 74th St, New York City 
RAFTER, Joseph L., J.D. 1930 Hotel Breslin, 29th & Broadway, New York City 
REED, Louis C. M., el. 1915 19 W. 44th St, New York City 
REEVES, James P., Ph.B.Com. 1934 146 Central Park W.. New York City 
REILLY, Austin V., E.E. 1925 1051 Trinity Ave., Bronx, New York City 
REILLY, Thomas, A.B. 1897 1051 Trinity Ave.. Bronx. New York City 
REPETTI, Joseph D.. B.S.Ch.E. 1928 40 Downing St, New York City 
RIZER. James L.. A.B. 1931 72 Barrow St, Apt 4P, New York City 
ROCHE, John J.. B.S.C.E. 1934 501 W. 186 St. New York City 
RORRS. George H., B.C.S. 1933 1439 University Ave., New York City 
ROBKE, J. H.. Ph.B.For.Com. I93I 45 Grammercy Park, N., New York City 
SCHELL. Oliver P.. Ph.B.Com. 1929 310 Riverside Drive. New York City 
SCHILDER, Richard J., B.S.JLE. 1928 IngersoU-Rpnd Co.. II Broadway, New York City 
SHANNON, William H.. B.C.S. 1930 3120 Broadway, New York'City 
SHEA, Robert D.. A.B. 1922 25 Broadway, New York City 
SHEEHAN, John J., A.B. 1925 c-o Studebaker-Pierce Arrow Sales. 56th St & Broadway, New York City 
SHEEN, Dr. Thomas N.. B.S. Biol. 1921 1055 Park Ave.. New York City 
SIUDZINSKI, Frank E.. A.B. 1929 247 W. 43rd St. New York City 
STANFORD, Grattan T.. Ph.B. 1904 45 Nassau St, New York City 
STEPHAN, Anton C. C.E. 1904 1136 Fifth Ave.. New York City 
STEPHAN, Edmund A,. A.B. 1933 1136 Fifth Ave., New York City 
TOOMEY, Timothy J.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1930 Royal Indemnity Co., 57 Gold St.. New York City 
TBAYNOR. John P.. B.C.S. 1925 c-o N. Y. Title Mortgage Co.. 135 Broadway. Netv York City 
VEKGARA, George A.. LL.B. 1925 12 E. 97th St, New York Citj-
WALKER. Francis C. LL.B. 1909. LL.D. 1934 1600 Broadway, New York City 
WALLACE, John R.. Ph.B.Com. 1934 1006 Trinity Ave.. New York City 
WERNER, John P.. B.S. 1932 1326 Riverside Drive, New York City 
WILLSON, Stephen C, Ph.B. 1923 205 W. 88th St, New York City 
WILSON, John M., E.E. 1911 463 West St, New York City 
NIAGARA FALLS 

BELLINGER, William J., os. 1897. el. 1930 459 Fourth St. Niagara Falls, N. Y. 
REICHERT, Joseph S.. Ph.D. 1922 108 S. 8Gth St. Niagara Falls, N. Y. 
NORTH TARRYTOWN 

FOLEY, John E., A.B. 1931 41 Hudson Terrace, North Tarrytown, N. Y. 
FOLEY, Martin G, Ph.B.Com. 1929 290 Washington St. North Tarrytown, N. Y. 
SINNOTT, Gerald W.. B.S. 1930 47 Hudson Terrace, North Tarrytown, N. Y. 
NORTH TONAWANDA CANINO, John J., A.B. 1934 365 Bryant St. North Tonawanda, N. Y. 
NORWICH BYRNE, Robert J., B.SJVrch.E. 1933 11 Adelaide St, Nonvich, N. Y. 
COLEMAN. James W., LL.B. 1927 86 E. Main St. Norwich, N. Y. 
OGDENSBURG BRANDY, Joseph R., M.E. 1921 522 State St, Ogdensburg. N. Y. 
SARGENT, Stanley A., A.B. 1928 1013 Ford St, Ogdensburg, N. Y. 
FITZGERALD, George F.. Ch.E. 1925 209 York St, Olean, N. Y. 
FITZGERALD. Mark J., A.B. 1928 209 York St. Olean, N. Y. 
ONEIDA NEWSIAN, James H.. A.B. 1926 332 Main St, Oneida, N. Y. 
OSWEGO McGOUGH, Thomjis M., A.B. 1931 50 W. Fifth St, Oswego, N. Y. 
SCKAFFER. James M., B.SJLE. 1930 169 E. SL\th St, Oswego. N. Y. 
PAINTED POST BONHAM, Ed^vin D„ C.E. 1909 329 Hamilton St, Painted Post, N. Y. 
CARLTON, Edward J., M.E. 191G Painted Post, N. Y. 
CUMISKEY, Charles A., A.B. 1934 121 E. High St, Painted Post N. Y. 
PEARL RIVER 

HARIANI, Hector Joseph. A.B. 1934 MiddletOOTi Road, Pearl River, N. Y. 
PEEKSKILL DORSEV. John J., B.S. 1934 1030 Brown St, Peekskill. N. Y. 
PELHAM GANNON, John R., A.B. 1931 251 Loring. Pelham. N. Y. 
SMITH. Howard J., A.B. 1930 65 Harmon Ave., Pelham, N. Y. 
PELHAM MANOR McGEE, Raymond A.. M.E. 1924 658 Timpson St, Pelham Manor, N. Y. 
PENN YAN CORCORAN, Robert L., B.S. 1934 142 Main St. E., Penn Yan. N. Y. 
HYLAND, Justin E.. M.E. 1922 226 Clinton St. Penn Yan, N. Y. 
MEEHAN, John J., C.E. 1923 317 Elm St. Penn Yan, N. Y. 
MULCAHY, Paul A., Ph.B.For.Com. 1922 N Y. C. Electrical Corporation, Penn Yan, N. Y. 
PERRY PRESCOTT, Robert W., LL.B. 1933 Perry, N. Y. 
ROCHE, Albert W., A.B. 1931 21 N. Federal St, Perry. N. Y. 
PITTSFORD MCCARTHY. John E., A.B. 1930 54 Monroe Ave., Pittsford, N. Y. 
PLATTSBDRG B0URDEA1I. James F.. A.B. 1931 79 N. Catherine, Plattsburg. N. Y. 
DINNEEN, Edward T, Ph.B.Joum. 1924 Clinton County News, Plattsburg, N. Y. 
PLEASANTVILLE ADRIAN, Michael J.. E.E. 1925 129 Broadway, Pleasantville. N. Y. 
FARRINGTON, Wesley J.. B.S. 1933 123 Pleasant Ave., Pleasantville, N. Y. 
MCCAFFREY , David S.. B.S.Min.E. 1933 11 Academy St, Pleasantville, N. Y. 
NAPOLITANO, D. J., A.B.Phys.Ed. 1932 M.A. 1933 23 Madison Ave., Pleasantville, N. Y. 
RIPLEY, Albert S., B.C.S. 1933 405 Bedford Road. Pleasantville, N, Y. 
PORT CHESTER BAILIE, Roy C. A.B. 1931 32 Leicester Place, Port Chester, N. Y. 
CRILLY, James A., os. 1913 Glen Ave., E., Port Chester, N. Y. 
MERLOKI. Peter E.. M.A. 1928 Don Bosco Community Center. Port Chester, N. Y. 
PORT JERVIS SWEENEY, Francis F.. B.C.S. 1930 78 Hammona St.. Port Jcrvis. N. Y. 
PORT WASHINGTON 

MARKLAND, Robert V., A.B. 1932 12S E. Shore Road. Port Washington. L.I.. N. Y. 
POTSDAM BABSETT, Joseph T., Ph.B.Com. 1929 13 Chestnut St. Potsdam. N. Y. 
REGAN. Jr.. Cornelius F.. LL.B. 1927 71 Main St., Potsdam. N. Y. 
POUGHKEEPSIB CLARK. Joseph D.. B.C.S. 1933 350 Church St., Poughkecpsie, N. Y. 
KUHN. John J.. A.B. 1931 35 Hammerslcy Ave., PouKhkeepsie, N. Y. 
McCAMBRIDGE. Leonard F.. A.B. 1932 281 Mill St., PoUKhkeepsie. N. Y. 
QUEENS OLBRICHT, Henry B.. A.B. 1929 9012 Queens Road. Queens, L. I., N. Y. 
RICHBURG GREY, Jr.. Jack L, A.B. 1929 Bichburs, N. Y. 
RICHMOND HILL DEXXEHY. Arthur P.. A.B. 1930 108-12 85th Ave., Richmond Hill, N. Y. 
FLYNN. E. J.. B.S.E.E. 1931 9417 118th St., Richmond Hill, L.I.. N. Y. 
STRAUB, W. J., Ph.B.Com. 1934 8618 110th St.. Richmond Hill. N. Y. 
SEELIXGER, GeorEC F.. B.S. 1932 9118 llSth St.. Richmond Hill, L.I.. N. Y. 
ROCHESTER ASHE, Ger.ild A., Ph.B.For.Com. 1922 226 Glen EUyn Way, Rochester, N, Y. 
ASHE, Thomas R.. A.B. 1931 226 Glen EUyn Way, Rochester, N. Y. 
B.AGLIN, Charles Norbert. LL.B. 1919 902 Wider Bldg., Rochester, N. Y. 
BELL. William R., B.C.S. 1925 1340 Lexington Ave., Rochester. N. Y. 
BURNS, Thomas A.. B.C.S. 1932 312 Conkey Ave.. Rochester, N. Y. 
CALLAGHAN. Robert J.. B.C.S. 1931 95 Clay Ave., Rochester, N. Y. 
CASABETTA. Raymond D., B.C.S. 1934 71 JosbTi Place, Rochester, N. Y. 
CONNELLY. Bernard J.. B.C.S. 1928 17 Electric Ave.. Rochester, N. Y. 
CONNELLY, Peter J.. A.B. 1933 994 N. Goodman St., Rochester, N. Y. 
CULKIN, Anthony J., A.B. 1932 341 Laburnum St., Rochester, N. Y. 
CURTIS, Jr.. John D., A.B. 1927 National Carloading Corporation. 200 Exchange St., Rochester, N. Y. 
DcCLERCK, Francis E., B.C.S. 1933 34 Meredith St., Rochester, N. Y. 
DcPAOLIS, Paul F., Ch.E. 1924 c-o Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N. Y. 
DORSCHEL. John G., Ph.B.Com. 1931 184 Curlew St., Rochester, N. Y. 
DOWUNG. Martin J., B.C.S. 1931 196 Warivick Ave., Rochester, N. Y. 
DOWNS, Raymond D., B.C.S. 1926 638 Plymouth Ave., S., Rochester, N. Y. 
EILERS. Mark G.. Ch.E. 1919 497 Lexington Ave., Rochester, N. Y. 
FARRELL. Allan G.. Ph.B.Com. 1934 344 Berkeley St., Rochester, N. Y. 
FLYNN. Joseph P., BJVrch. 1916 49 Inglewood Drive, Rochester, N. Y. 
GEBAGHTY, Joseph M., Ph.B.Com. 1928 49 Brett Road, Rochester, N. Y. 
GUPPY. Ray. os. 1912, el. 1925 204 Rugby Ave.. Rochester. N. Y. 
HECHINGER, E. C. B.C.S. 1932 Columbus Civic Center, Rochester, N. Y. 
HEINRICH. Wolfgansr A.. B.S.Ch. 1920 58 Catalpa Road. Rochester. N. Y. 
HENNESSY, David B.. B.S.C.E. 1934 119 Bedford St., Rochester. N. Y. 
HOH>IANN. Arthur C, Ph.B.For.Com. 1927 4550 St. Paul Blvd.. Rochester, N. Y. 
JONES. James V.. LL.B. 1922 319 Elhvanger & Barry Bldg.. Rochester. N. Y. 
JONES, William J.. B.C.S. 1932 126 Alameda St.. Rochester. N. Y. 
KDfSELLA. John J., Ph.B.For.Com. 1934 IS Clay Ave., Rochester, N. Y. 
KRASIER. Edward J.. B.S. 1920 21S Roslyn St., Rochester. N. Y. 
LINTZ. Arthur J.. B.C.S. 1929 24 Rugby Ave.. Rochester. N. Y. 
UNTZ. Clinton J.. M.E. 1922 24 Rugby Ave.. Rochester, N. Y. 
McGEE. Francis A.. B.C.S. 1926 50 Scio St., Rochester. N. Y. 
McGBATH, James H.. B.S.Phys,Ed. 1933 78 Avenue B. Rochester, N. Y. 
McVEAN. M. R.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1931 
5. Fenwicfc St., Rochester. N. Y. 
MEAD, Rjiymond J., os. 1921, el. 1926 70-72 Oakman St., Rochester, N. Y. 
MERRIMAN, William E.. E.E. 1925 646 Ridgeway Ave.. Rochester, N. Y. 
SHLLER, Joseph H.. M.E. 1916 202 Flower City Parkway. Rochester. N. Y. 
MORRISON, Francis J.. A.B. 1932 373 Grand Ave., Rochester, N. Y. 
MULLEN, Walter F.. B.C.S. 1932 Standard Brands, Inc., Rochester, N. Y. 
NORTON, Francis A.. B.C.S. 1932 80 Beckwith Terrace. Puichcster, N. Y. 
O'CONNOR. Thomas H.. os. 1914 Editor. Catholic Courier. 50 Chestnut St., Rochester, N. Y. 
QUENAN. William C. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1933 1477 Highland Ave.. Rochester. N. Y. 
BEIDSIAN. Emil J.. M.E. 1914 434 Post Ave.. Rochester, N. Y. 
ROCKWELL, Harvey P., B.S.M.E. 1934 377 Barrington St., Rochester, N. Y. 
SCHEBER. Karl W.. B.S.Phar. 1931 554 Jefferson St., Rochester. N. Y. 
SCHOLAXD, Walter J.. A.B. 1930 770 TOnton Road. N., Rochester, N. Y. 
SLAVIN. Arthur D.. B.S. 1928, M.S. 1929 2001 St. Paul St., Rochester, N. Y. 
SMITH. Gerard J.. A.B. 1926 128 Rugby Ave., Rochester, N. Y. 
SULLIVAN. Richard T., B.C.S. 1932 233 Ellicott St.. Rochester. N. Y. 
SULLIVAN. V. G., A.B. 1931 71 Otis St., Rochester. N. Y. 
TIEBNEY, Michael J.. Ph.B. 1921 112 Cutler Bldg., Rochester, N. Y. 
TOBIN, Richard B.. B.S. 1934 Penfield Road, Rochester, N. Y. 
WEILAND, Bernard W., B.S.M.E. 1929 155 Magee Ave.. Rochester, K. Y. 
WELCH, James W„ os. 1923, el. 1929 411 Genesee St. Rochester. N. Y. 
WOLLENSAK, Edward P.. Ph.B.C. 1924 377 Seneca Parkway, Rochester, N, Y. 
YAWMAN. Victor G.. Ph.B.Com. 1926 433 Sawjcr St., Rochester, N. Y. 
ROCKVILLE CENTER GATELY. Thomas J.. A.B. 1932. LL.B. 1934 16 Lewis Place, Rockville Center, N. Y. 
HYLAND. Clement Jos.. LL.B. 1926 The Chef, Rockville Center, N. Y. 
ROME FARR, Jack P., B.C.S. 1929 418 W. Liberty St. Rome, N. Y. 
GRIFFIN, James T„ Ph.BJor.Com. 1934 1206 N. Madison St, Rome. N. Y. 
HERBST. Frederick P.. A.B. 1926 818 N. James St. Rome, N. Y. 
LOVIER. Lester L.. A.B. 1926 604 N. Madison. Rome. N. Y. 
REES. Leo A.. B.C.S. 1929 215 W. Embargo. Rome. N. Y. 
ROSENDALE CASSIDY, Daniel F.. B.S.C.E. 1932 Rosendale, N. Y. 
RYE BARBER. Richard J., A.B. 1931 93 Evergreen Ave.. Bye. N. Y. 
BYBNE. Edward A.. Ph.BJor.Com. 1926 48 Lynden St. Rye, N. Y. 
SAINT ALBANS MESSINA. Francis E.. A.B. 1934 109-14 196th St. St Albans. I,.L. N. Y. 
PO^VELL. William J.. A.B. 1934 111-27 174th St, St Albans, N. Y. 
SAEJT GEORGE 

BOV, Thomas J., B.S.M.E. 1928 100 Stuyvesant Place. Apt 4B. S t George. S.I., N. Y. 
SALAMANCA FITZGERALD. R. C. Ph.BJor.Com. 1934 Salamanca, N. Y. 
SARANAC LAKE CAREY. Cornelius J., A.B. 1930 111 Park Ave., Saranac Lake, N. Y. 
.MUNN. James C. A.B. 1934 6 Prospect St., Saranac Lake. N. Y. 
SCARSDALE 

LYDDANE, Harry A.. B.C.S. 1927 89 Brite Ave., Scarsdale. N. Y. 
MCLAUGHLIN. Edward M., Ph.B. 1918 171 Bell Road. Scarsdale, N. Y. 
NASH. Charles D.. A.B. 1931 20 Cohawney Road. Scarsdale. N. Y. 
SCHENECTADY COMEAU. George H.. A.B. 1934 1038 Phoenix Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. 
DUQUETTE, Francis L., B.S.E.E. 1928 1074 Glenwood Blvd.. Schenectady, N. Y. 
HUETHER. John J., E.E. 1922 1122 Sumner Ave., Schenectady. N. Y. 
IttACKEY. William B.. A.B. 1934 2023 Wabash Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. 
MOYER, Elmo B., B.S.E.E. 1929 General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y. 
O'DONOHUE, Valentine A.. A.B. 1928 407 Cedar St., Schenectady, N. Y. 
TOPPING, Charles G.. B.SJIE. 1928 1059 Wendell Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. 
WALSH. Richard S.. B.S.EJ!. 1931 110 Union St., Schenectady, N. Y. 
SILVER CREEK AIGNER, Donald P.. B.C.S. 1923 Ijike Shore Rd., Silver Creek. N. Y. 
GALLOWAY. Robert P.. LL.B. 1922 28 Grove St. Silver Creek. N. Y. 
PRTVITEBA, Samuel P.. LL.B. 1927 19 Burgess. Silver Creek, N. Y. 
SPENCEK, George W.. B.C.S. 1925 23 Bursess St., Silver Creek, N. Y. 
SOLVAY ECKEL, Jacob E., B.Arch. 1916 40t Orchard Road, Solvar. N. Y. 
SOUTH OZONE PARK LANE, William J., A.B. 1927 133-15 131st St., South Ozone Park, L.L, N. Y­
SPRIKGVILLE GRAY, Wilbur T., LL.B. 1914 32 Buffalo St., SprinEville, N. Y. 
STAPLETON EESIPF, Lucien J.. B.C.S. 1933 19 Mctcalt, Stapleton, S.L, N. Y. 
SDFFEHN PETRONB, Dr. John C. B.S. 1927 164 Orance Ave., Sultem. N. Y. 
SUNNYSroE POWELL, J. Baden, os. 1932 41-41 46th St., Sunnyside, LX, N. Y. 
SYRACDSE BROWN, Vincent J., E.E. 1923 157 ShotwcII Park, Syracuse, N. Y. 
BYRNE, William E., Ph.B.For.Com. 1926 
C.OTravelers Insurance Co., Syracuse, N. Y. 
CAVANATIGH, Vincent D.. Litt.B. 1923 104 Ashworth Place, Syracuse, N. Y. 
Dc LANY, Frederick T., B.S.C.E. 1930 200 Onondaga Ave., Syracuse. N. Y. 
GOOLEY, Philip E.. Ch.E. 1917 229 Burnet Park Drive, Syracuse, N. Y. 
GOULET, Vincent L., B.C.S. 1926 125 Green, Syracuse, N. Y. 
HERBERT. John R.. A.B. 1928 1920 St James St, Syracuse, N. Y. 
HUXFORD, James H., S.M.E. 1921 Syracuse Lighting Co., Inc., Erie Blvd. West at Franklin St, Syracuse, N. Y. 
JOHNSON. La«Tence D., A.B. '30, LL.B. '33 141 Medland Ave., Syracuse, N. Y. 
JOHNSON, Paul J.. A.B. 1927 141 Medland Ave., S.vracuse, N. Y. 
KELLEY. Leo D., Ph.B.Com. 1921 137 Amherst Ave., SjTacuse, N. Y. 
KELLEY, George B., os. 1909. el. 1930 2306 State St, Syracuse, N. Y. 
KERWJN, James E , MJi. 1927 410 E. Gencssec St, Syracuse, X. Y. 
LEAHY, Ward H., Ph.B.For.Com, 1926 C'K) Haberle Brewing Co., Syracuse, N. Y. 
LITTV, Charles H.. B.C.S-For.Com. 1934 102 Sunnycrest Road. Syracuse, N. Y. 
HcGRAIN, Francis T., LL.B. 1918 166 Palmer Ave., Syracuse, N. Y. 
HcKEEVEB, Francis E., A.B. 1930 2301 S. State St, Syracuse. N. Y. 
NYIKOS, John J , A.B. 1927 1445 S. Salina St, Syracuse, N. Y. 
PAUL, Leo G.. A.B. 1928 2426 S. SaUna St. Syracuse, N. Y. 
SCHONLAU. Barney, os. 1913 151 Brampton Road, Syracuse, N. Y. 
SHEEHY, Donald J.. B.S.U.E. 1933 , 104 Glahn St. Syracuse. N. Y. 
SHEEHY. James E., B.S. 1930 104 Glahn St. Syracuse. N. Y. 
SLATTERY. John W.. Ph.B.F.C. 1927 507 Tallman St, Syracuse, N. Y. 
SULLIVAN. Robert L., A.B. 1934 414 Temple St, Syracuse, N. Y. 
TARRYTO^VN DEELY. James J.. B.S. 1930 61 College Ave., Tarrytown, N. Y. 
DUQUETTE. George M., A.B. 1932 20 Woodfield Terrace, Tarrytovm, N. Y. 
GROSS. Lawrence T, A.B. 1934 11 Benedict Ave., Tarrytown, N. Y. 
TROY DOLLARD, Thomas V., BJU-ch. 1921 200 Ninth St. Troy, N. Y. 
MAHAR, Francis C. B.C.S. 1934 6 Alder St, Troy, N. Y. 
TUPPER LAKE STEWART, William A , B.C.S. 1933 Iroquois Hotel. Tupper Lake. N. Y. 
SISmONS, Lawrence C. B.S.E.E. 1933 Tupper Lake Junction, N. Y. 
TUXEDO PARK CASSIDY. John J.. B.S.E.E. 1930 Tuxedo Park. N. Y. 
UTICA CREGO, Francis T., B.S.Ch.E. 1934 1122 Leeds St, Utica. N. Y. 
DONALTY, Francis W., B.C.S. 1933 23 Beverly Place, Utica, N. Y. 
DORRIS, Thomas B., B.S.Chem.E. 1933, 30 Wavcrly Place, M.S. 1934 Utica. N. Y. 
FISHEB. Edward J., B.C.S. 1934 705 Humbert Ave.. Utica. N. Y. 
FLETCHER, Vincent T., A.B. 1932 1610 Harrison Ave., Utica, N. Y. 
FULLEM, Joseph William, os. 1931 1621 Neilson St, Utica, N. J. 
CLANCY, H. J., B.C.S. 1932 891 Blceker St, Utica, N. Y. 
HAJIELINE, Thomas F.. B.C.S. 1929 1016 Sunset Ave.. Utica, N. Y. 
HITZELBERGER, A. Charles, A.B. 1932 4 Talcott Road, Utica, N. Y. 
KELLEY, Dr. John F.. os. 1923. el. 1932 2630 Edgewood Road, Utica. N..Y. 
LEDERMANN, Francis A.. B.S.M.E 1930 1535 Neilson St., Utica. N. Y. 
LEDERSIANN, Charles C, B.C.S. 1934 1535 Neilson St, Utica, N. Y. 
McCOmnCK, William Nicholas, 303 South St , B.C.S.ror.Com. 1934 Utica, N. Y. 
McGEE. Arthur J., Ph.B.Com. 1931 1415 Miller St, Utica. N. Y. 
RICHTER. George A.. B.C.S. 1931 1029 Rutger St. Utica, N. Y. 
RUSH, John J., B.C.S. 1932 201 French Road, Utica, N. Y. 
SHAUGHNESSY, Daniel C . B.S. 1930 1639 Elm St, Utica, N. Y. 
SERVATIUS, Robert J.. Spec 1928 247 Gcaessee St, Utica, N. Y. 
SWEENEY. Edward J.. B.C.S. 1930 1415 Miller St. Utica, N. Y. 
^'ESTAL SHAPLEY, Stephen A.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1930 Bos 33, Vestal, N. Y. 
WARSAW 3IcGEE. John B., A.B. 1930 225 W. Buffalo, Warsaw, N. Y. 
WATKINS GLEN SULLIVAN, Daniel G.. Ph.BJor.Com. 1930 305 Fourth St, Watkins Glen, N. Y. 
WATERVILLE NOON, Tliomaa J.. Walerville, N. Y. 
WAVERLY CLOHESSY. Francis J„ LL.B. 1920 First National Bank Bldg.. Waverl.v. N. Y. 
WAYLAND McCOY, Julius C. B.S.EB. 1927 112 S. Main St, Wayland, N. Y. 
WALLACE, Clark J„ B.C.S. 1928 215 Lincoln St, Wayland, N. Y. 
WEST BLOOMFIELD BUSCH. Gerald A.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1929 West BloomSeld. N. Y. 
WESTBURY O'CONNOR, Edmond J., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1932 330 Maple Ave.. Wcstbury. L.I.. N. Y. 
AVEST HEMPSTEAD 
BUTLER. Albert N., A.B. 1933 84 Buckingham Road. West Hempstead. N. Y. 
WESTERLEIGH HURLEY. John J.. A.B. 1933 IS Miller St. Westerleigh, S.L. N. Y'. 
WHITESTONB REARN, William G.. A.B. 1927 12-28 14Sth St, M'hitestone, L.I.. N. Y. 
WILLIAMSVTLLE BYRNE. John G.. Ph.B.Com. 1923 149 Monroe Drive, Williamsvillc, N. Y. 
YONKERS BERETZ, Charles N., A.B. 1927 62 Ash St, Yonkers. N. Y. 
BERETZ. O.'Paul, B.C.S. 1927 62 Ash St, Yonkers, N. Y. 
BRULE. Albert M.. E.E 1925 710 Warburton Ave., Yonkers. N. Y. 
CACCIATORE, Leonard A., A.B. 1934 135 Willow St, Yonkers. N. Y. 
CACCIATORE. Rocco R.. A.B. 1934 105 Park Hill Ave.. Yonkers, N. Y. 
COLLINS, Norbert J., A.B. 1931 7 Bell Place. Yonkers. N. Y. 
COLVILLE, John E., B.C.S. 1934 171 Woodworth Ave., Yonkers, N. Y. 
CULUNAN, George E. A.B. 1932 248 Van Cortlandt Park Ave.. Yonkers, N. Y. 
FORASTIERE. Michael A., A.B. 1934 184 Waverly St, Yonkers, N. Y. 
FULLER, James H.. A.B. 1925 244 Park Hill Ave.. Yonkers, N. Y. 
KOSKY. Edwin S., A.B. '33 Ph.BJor.Com. '34 IS LeRoy Ave., Yonkers, N. Y. 
LAW, John, A.B. 1930 67 Grant Ave.. Yonkers, N. Y. 
LYNCH. William A., A.B. 1933 334 Warburton Ave., Yonkers, N. Y. 
McANANEY. Francis A., A.B. 1929 18 Van Cortland Park Ave., Yonkers. N. Y. 
SUDOL, John A.. A.B. 1932 163 Webster Ave., Yonkers. N. Y. 
TONER. Robert W., A.B. 1930 84 Franklin Ave., Yonkers, N. Y. 
WALSH, Henry T.. Ph.B.Com. 1923 168 King Ave., Yonkers, N. Y. 
WALSH, William A., os. 1896 16-18 S. Broadivay. Yonkers, N. Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA 
ASHEVILLE KOONTZ. Edward J.. B.C.S. 1932 Lalce View Park. Asheville. N. C. 

SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
CANDLER GREAR, Roliect S.. A.B. 1S32 Candler, N. C. 
CHAPEIiHILL WILLIAMS, Arnold L.. A.B. 1929 Graduate Club, Chapel Hill, N. C. 
CHARLOTTE 

OONOGHUE, Richard L., B.S3I.E. 1931 c-o Mctro-Goldwyn-Meyer, 426 Fifth St., Charlotte, N. C. 
DURHAM 

CAREY, Thomas P.. A.B. 1920 c-o Cities Service Co., Durham, N. 0. 
WEHS, Richard J., B.S. 192S Duke University Hospital, Durham. N. C. 
LEAKSVILLE SIANSFIELD, Edward F., A.B. 1934 128 S. Bridge St., Lcaksvillc, N. C. 
RALEIGH 

ANDERSON, Heartlcy W., C.E. 1922 North Carolina State Colleje, EaleiEh, N. C. 
BARTEL. Frank O., C.E. 1915 212 W. Morgan St., Raleigh, N. C. 
UUNSINGER, Edward T., LL.B. 1925 North Carolina Stale College, Raleigh, N. C. 
REESE, Frank A., LL.B. 1925 Athletic Department, North Carolina State College. Raleigh, N. C. 
NORTH DAKOTA 

ARTHUR ROSS, Charles T., B.C.S. 1931 Arthur, N. Dak. 
BERTHIAUME, Philip J., LL.B. 1928 Bottineau, N. Dak. 
GASSELTON FORD, Francis W., B.S. 1928 Casselton, N. Dak. 
DICKINSON LISH, Peter P., LL.B. 1922 43 Second Ave., Dickinson, N. Dak. 
GRAND FORKS BIRDER. Jacob V., LL.B. 1013 707 Belmont Road, Grand Forks, N. Dak. 
SULLIVAN, Roderick E., Ph.B.F.C. 1924 Northern States I'ower Co., Grand Forks, N. Dak. 
TONER, Thomas A., LL.B. 1904 First National Bank Bldg., Grand Forks, N. Dak. 
HETTINGER BUZICK, Ljell E., B.S.E.E. 1920 Hettinger, N. Dak. 
DUNN, Charles M., LL.B. 1021 Box 335, Hettinger, N. Dak. 
MANDAN CUMMINS, Robert B., os. 1026, cl. 1931 The C^immins Co., Mandan, N. Dak. 
MINOT BOSSERT, Peter J., B.C.S. 1932 Minot Implement Co., Minot, N. Dak. 
BROSNAHAN, Henry J., LL.B. 1917 International Harvester Co., Minot, N. Dak. 
GREER, Ralph G., B.C.S. 1933 17 Eighth St., S.E., Minot, N. Dak. 
McGEE, George A., LL.B. 1901 616 S. Main St., Minot, N. Dak. 
VALLEY CITY SHEEHAN, Thomas J., Min.E. 1924 Box 89, Valley City, N. Dak. 
OHIO 

BERTSCH, Paul A.. B.C.S. 1929 407 Woodland Ave., Akron, Ohio 
BOTZUM, Richard S., Ph.B.Com. 1931 629 W. Market, Akron, Ohio 
CLARK, Thomas E., B.C.S. 1930 21 S. Valley St, Akron, Ohio 
CONLEY. Jr.. Wlliam J., Ph.B.For.Com. 1923 Firestone Tire & Rubber Co., Akron, Ohio 
DETTLING, John A., Litt.B. 1921 187 Castle Blvd., Akron, Ohio 
DEVANY, Dr. Andrew J., B.S.Biol. 1911 688 Dayton St., Akron, Ohio 
DOAN, Franklyn E.. A.B. 1929 1100 Copley Road, Akron, Ohio 
DORAN, John M., B.C.S. 1933 69 E. Mill St., Akron, Ohio 
DORAN, Dr. Patrick C, Litt.B. 1923 Second National Bldg., Akron, Ohio 
DUTT, Arthur R., B.C.S. 1933 381 Crosby St., Akron, Ohio 
ERRA, Arthur L., os. 1930 c-o George Hargreaves, Second National Bldg., Akron. Ohio 
GLEASOX, Edmund A., A.B. 192S 245 Melbourne Ave.. Akron, Ohio 
HALTER, L. H., B.S.Chem.E. 1931 
•|67 W. Market St., Akron, Ohio 

nEL.1IKA3HP, William B.. B.Arch. 1911 545 Fernwood Drive, Akron, Ohio 
HILKERT, Albert A., Litt.B. 1911 130 Morningside Drive, Akron, Ohio 
HINDERSCHEID, Edmund A., Ph.B.Com. '30 802 Mary St., Akron, Ohio 
HORNING, Claude H., BJ\.rch. 1929 133 Highland Ave., Akron, Ohio 
KEENEY. Arthur C, LL.B. 1922 91 Melbourne Ave., Akron, Ohio 
KLEIN, Gerald H.. B.C.S. 1932 852 Diagonal Road, Akron, Ohio 
KRAMER, Dr. James G.. B.S.Biol. 1911 169 Stores Ave., Akron, Ohio 
LEY, Bernard W., Ph.B.C. 1925 482 Orlando Ave., Akron, Ohio 
LEY, Theodore N., B.C.S. 1926 516 Roslyn Ave., Akron, Ohio 

.^LVY, Clarence William, LL.B. 1908 2200 First Central Trust Bldg., .\kron, Ohio 
McCOUBT, Walter P., LL.B. 1916 365 S. Main St., Akron, Ohio 
OTREY, Howard M.. A.B. 1930 70 Kent Ave., Akron. Ohio 
RAUH, Cornelius A., Ch.E. 1024 Mechanical Sales Dept., Goodrich Tire & Rubber Co., Akron, Ohio 
S.WTH, Glenn L., B.C.S. 1927 832 Elmore Ave., Akron, Ohio 
SNYDER, .4.ndrew J., B.C.S. 1930 163 Beck Ave., Akron, Ohio 
STEEL, Francis B.. LL.B. 1925 406 Ohio Bldg., Akron, Ohio 
STEINLE. Sylvester A., Ph.B.For.Com. 1922 504 Delmar Ave., Akron, Ohio 
STOLEY, Michael D., B.C.S. 1933 152 Oakdalc Ave., Akron, Ohio 
SWARTZ, Forest J., B.C.S. 1926 815 S. High St., Akron, Ohio 
TOBIN, Richard W., os. 1923, el. 1926 96 Rose Blvd., Akron, Ohio 
WOZSIAK, Joseph J., LL.B. 1929 1S14 Central Trust Bldg., Akron. Ohio 
WOZNIAK, Stephen J., LL.B. 1928 1814 First Central Trust Bldg.. Akron, Ohio 
ALLIANCE DEVINE, Clement L., CJl 1907 Alliance, Ohio 
KOTTE, Albert A., C.E. 1906 Alliance, Ohio 
ASHTABULA CROSS, James A., B.S. 1928 463 Lake Ave., Ashtabula, Ohio 
ROHL, James R., A.B. 1928, LL.B. 1932 28 Parson St, Ashtabula, Ohio 
ZABACK, John W., B.C.S. 1931 64 Prospect St , Ashtabula, Ohio 
BARBERTON CLINE, Virgil P., Com. 1929 Columbia Cottage, Barberton, Ohio 
JENNEY, Alfred J.. A.B. 1928 327 Seventh St, Barberton, Ohio 
KOZAK, George J.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1933 5235 Cato St, Bedford, Ohio 
BELLAIRE LAVELLE, John L.. LL.B. 1926 4473 Noble St , Bellaire, Ohio 
SARGUS, Edmund A., A.B. 1933 331 19th St, Bellaire, Ohio 
SARGUS, George J.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 351 19th St., Bellaire, Ohio 
BELLEFONTAINE BRAY. Anthony T.. Ph.B. 1921. LL.B. 1924 Bellefontaine, Ohio 
BRENNAN, Roger P., A.B. 1933 344 S. Detroit St , Bellefontaine. Ohio 
CARNES, John Kindell. B.S.E.E. 1933 321 E. Brown Ave., Bellefontaine, Ohio 
McCAULEY, Hugh William, A.B. 1933 106 E. Spring Ave., Bellefontaine, Ohio 
O'CONNOR, Thomas E.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 520 E. Columbus, Bellefontaine, Ohio 
BELLEVUE CALLAGBAN, Paul M.. Ph.B.Com. 1933 123 Euclid Ave., Bellevue. Ohio 
COOK, Charles O.. B.Arch. 1930 412 W. Main St, Bellevue. Ohio 
RUFFING, Charles E., os. 1885, el. 1026 111 E. Main St, Bellevue, Ohio 
RUFFING, Cornelius John, A.B. 1932 237 Euclid Ave., Bellevue, Ohio 
SKELLEY, John C, Ph.B.Com. 1931 119 Euclid Ave., Bellevue, Ohio 
BRIDGEPORT JOROEN, Ralph H., B.C.S. 1926 Brookside Addition, Bridgeport, Ohio 
JORDEN. Jr., Thomas J., B.C.S. 1929 2 Maple St, Bridgeport, Ohio 
CALIFORNIA McHUGH, Edward C, os. 1913 Rhode Ave., California, Ohio 
CAMPBELL PROKOP, George E., I;L.B. 1922 2293 Wilson Ave., Campbell. Ohio 
CANTON BELDEN. Paul B., Ph.B.Com. 1932 1414 Market Ave., N., Canton, Ohio 
CONLEY, Arthur W., A.B. 1934 344 15th St, N. W., Canton, Ohio 
CONLEY. Richard M., Ph.B.Com. 1932 344 15th. St, N. W., Canton, Ohio 
DANNEMILLER. Frank T., Com. 1906 200-220 Cherry Ave., S. K, Canton, Ohio 
DANNEMILLER. Robert J., os. 1902, el. 1926 200 S. Cherry Ave., S.E. Canton, Ohio 
HARBERT, Norbert P.. B.C.S. 1930 120 Dryden Court Canton, Ohio 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
HOCKWALT. Alfred G.. Ph.B.C. 1925 1647 Woodland Ave.. N. W.. Canton, Ohio 
HOCKWALT, John E., Ph.B.Com. 1932 1647 "Woodland Ave., N. W.. Canton, Ohio 
laUAN . Donald B., B.S.Chem.E. '32. M.S. '34 2209 Ninth St., S. W., Canton. Ohio 
LEE, Thomas M.. A.B. 1929 1249 Fulton Road, Canton, Ohio 
»IALONEY, Jr., George P., Ph.B.For.Com. '34 922 Kidge Road. N. W.. Canton, Ohio 
McQUEBS, James J., os. 1925, el. 1930 122S Perkens Ave., N. W., Canton, Ohio 
MOTTER. Lawrence J., os. 1926, el. 192S 120 Colonial Blvd., N. E., Canton, Ohio 
REBILLOT, J. F., M.A. 1S91 819 Shorb Ave., N. W., Canton, Ohio 
SEBVA. Albert R, Litt.B. 1924 1411 Market Ave., N., Canton, Ohio 
SEXTOJT, James C. rh.B. 1911 607 Fulton Road. Canton, Ohio 
STAUDT. Jr.. Raj-mond Z„ A.B. 1930 110 Ninth St., Canton, Ohio 
STREB, Robert C, B.C.S. 1932 1218 Ninth St., N. W., Canton, Ohio 
VIGNOS, John A.. Ph.B.Com. 1926 1637 Cleveland Ave., N., Canton, Ohio 
ZINK, Francis A., A.B. 1908 2610 Market Ave., N., Canton, Ohio 
CELINA MLLER, Rudolph J., S.Com. 1917 610 N. Main St., Celina, Ohio 
PULSKAMP, Gcorse F.. Litt.B. 1896 623 N. Walnut St., Celina, Ohio 
FISHER, W. J., B.CS.For.Com. 1934 323 South St., Chardon, Ohio 
CHILLICOTHE HESS, John P., Ph.B.Com. 1934 183 Plum St., Chillicothe, Ohio 
KEEZER, Earl G., B.C.S. 1929 72 Bridge St., Chillicothe, Ohio 
RIGN'EV, Eugene D., Ph.B.Com. 1931 226 E. Second St., Chillicothe, Ohio 
SCHILDER, Gerald P., B.S.M.E. 1927 110 High St., Chillicothe, Ohio 
SIEGFRIED, Edward G., B.S. 1933 288 W. Water St., Chillicothe, Ohio 
STITT, Lawrence J., B.Arch. 1933 149 Vine St, Chillicothe, Ohio 
WALTERS, IVillard C, LL.B. 1924 1233 E. Main St, Chillicothe, Ohio 
CINCINNATI AUG, George E., B.C.S. 1933 4335 Bidgeview Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 
BRINK. Clarence H., B.C.S. 1931 1306 Crycr Ave., Hyde Park, Cincinnati, Ohio 
CAHILL, Harry S., os. 1908, el. 1926 3236 Upland Place, Cincinnati, Ohio 
CASSADY, William J., B.C.S. 1931 3443 Linwood Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 
CASTELLINI, Albert D., LL.B. 1924 1317 Crj-er Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 
CASTELLIN'I, William A. A., Ph.B.Joum. "22 206 N. Sbrth St., Cincinnati, Ohio 
CHENAL, Robert C, Ph.B.Com. 1934 2962 Lischer Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 
CLARK, Robert E., MJi. 1928 3816 Borden St., Cincinnati, Ohio 
CROWE, Clem F., B.S.ABric. 1925 St. Xavier's College, Cincinnati, Ohio 
CEOWLEV, John Montague, A.B. 1928 3707 Grovedale Ave., Hyde Park, Cincinnati, Ohio CRUMLEY, Harry V., C.B. 1903 2635 S. Harrison Ave., Westwood Branch, Cincinnati, Ohio 
DONOHOE, Edward F., Ph.B.Com. 1929 126S Quebec Road, Cincinnati, Ohio 
DUBOIS, Leo v., OS. 1915, el. 1927 c-o Frederick A. Schmidt Co., 
S. W. C, Fifth & Main St.. Cincinnati, Ohio 
DuBRUL, Ernest F., Litt.B. '92, A.B. '93, LL.B. '94, Litt.M. '94. Aja. '95 1220 Edwards Road, Cincinnati, Ohio 
FANGER, John C, os. 1903, el. 1926 6148 Tulane Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 
HANLEY, James W., B.S.Chem.E. 1931 3305 Clifton Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 
HEEKIN, Walter, os. 1903, el. 1926 3437 Stetliners, Cincinnati, Ohio 
HEILKEB, John H., A.B. 1930 3444 Stettinius Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 
HOOD, Myron E., C.E. 1925 2536 Vine St., CincinnaO, Ohio 
HUGGER, Bernard J., B.C.S. 1929 2724 Hackberry St., Cincinnati, Ohio 
HUGGER. Jerome H., Ph.B.Com. 1932 2724 Hackberry, St., Cincinnati, Ohio 
HUGHES, Robert W., Ph.B.Coni. 1929 3563 Burch Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 
JANSZEN, Lawrence J., os. 1910, el. 1926 91 W. McMillan St., Cincinnati, Ohio 
KEATING, Edward L., Ph.B.F.C. 1924 209 Gerkc Bldg., Cincinnati, Ohio 
KEGLER, William C, B.S. 1898, C.E. 1899 c-o Big Four Railroad, Ninth & Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio 
KINNEARY, Joseph P., A.B. 192S 1717 Gernwood Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 
KUERZE, Robert G., os. 1S9S 1343 Park Ridge Place, Cincinnati, Ohio 
JMAHER, James V., B.C.S. 1926 417 W. Front St., Cincinnati, Ohio 
MCCARTHY, William J., M.S. ISS3 c-o Western & Southern Life Insurance Co., Cincinnati, Ohio 
McHUGH, Bartholomew P.. B.CS.For.Com. '29 403 Etberon Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 
MEYER, Joseph A., os. 1916, el. 1923 St. Xai'ier College, Dana & Herald Aves., Avondale, Cincinnati, Ohio 
MORRISSEY. Joseph S., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1928 317 Tuscolum, Cincinnati, Ohio 
MORRISSEY. W. D., Boy. Guid. 1926 700 Este Bldg., Cincinnati, Ohio 
MUSSIO, John K., M.A. 1925 2122 Sinton Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 
PEURRUNG, Joe C, os. 1010, el. 1927 c-o General Match Co, Treasurer, Cincinnati, Ohio 
POWERS, Jeffrey V., Ph.B.For.Com. 1923 Fenwick Club, Cincinnati, Ohio 
ROHAN, Howard J., LL.B. 1915 2990 Erie Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 
STALEY, Carroll A., A.B. 1933 6264 Robinson Road, Cincinnati, Ohio 
STALEY, Frederick S., A.B. 1933 6264 Robinson Road, Cincinnati, Ohio 
SWEENEY, Frank H., os. 1917, el. 1923 Kemper Lane Apartment Hotel, Cincinnati, Ohio 
CIRCLEVILLE ANDERSON, Robert M., B.S. 1883 
P. O. Box 303, Circlcvillc, Ohio 
CLEVELAND ABEL, Paul J.. B.S3I.E. 1926 1712 Bryn MawT Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 
ANDREWS, Frank T., BJVrch. 1927 1141 East Blvd., Qeveland, Ohio 
ANDREWS, Robert J., Ph.B.Com. 1927 1141 East Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio 
ANZLOVAR, Anthony F., A.B. 1934 6202 St. Clair Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 
BEGLEY, John H., B.C.S. 1934 1356 E. 82nd St., Cleveland, Ohio 
BELJON, John R., A.B. 1930 12401 Buckingham, Cleveland, Ohio 
BELTING. Frank J.. Ph.B.Com. 1929 1908 W. 71st St.. Cleveland. Ohio 
BELTING. George Raymond, B.C.S. 1934 2034 W. 91st St., Cleveland, Ohio 
BLACK, Harry W., A.B. 1934 Suite 405, Commodore Hotel, Ford Drive & Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 
BLAKE, Joseph M., B.S.E.E. 1929 3471 W. 91st St., Cleveland, Ohio 
BLATT, Edgar J., A.B. 1930 1364 E. 91st St., Cleveland, Ohio 
BOURK, James L., A.B. 1933 8 Marcus Apt., 1928 E. 90th St., Cleveland, Ohio 
BRADLEY. Norman D., A.B. 1930 10628 Ashbnry, Cleveland, Ohio 
BRENNAN, Martin H., C.E. 1923 1630 Williamson Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio 
BURGER, Alfred A., os. 1913, el. 1928 1149 Leader Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio 
BYRNE, Thomas F., A.B. 1928 Bell Telephone Co., Huron Road, Cleveland, Ohio 
CALDWELL, Dr. C. J., os. 1923 4172 Rocky River Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 
CALLAHAN, James L., A.B. 1930 2027 E. 77th St., Cleveland, Ohio 
CALLAHAN, Nelson J., B.Com.Sc. 1923 3312 Sllsby Road, Cleveland, Ohio 
CAREY. Thomas E., A.B.. 1934 lOoOO Lake Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 
CASTNEB. Paul H., Ph.B.For.Com. 1923 White Motor Co., Cleveland, Ohio 
CELEBREZZE, Frank D., LL.B. 1925 12601 Brighton Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 
CERNEY, Otty J., Ph.B.For.Com. 1934 12917 Berchwood Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 
CHAMPION. Pierre. Ph.B.Com. 1922 2899 Courtland Blvd., Shaker Heights, Cleveland, Ohio 
CHATLA. John P., Ph.B.Com. 1923 c-o Paine Webber Co., Terminal Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio 
CHIARA, Roland A., B.S. 1931 1325 E. 124th Place, Cleveland, Ohio 
COFALL. Stanley B., LL.B. 1917 2624 Shaker Road, Cleveland, Ohio 
COLANGELO, John P.. B.S.E.E. 1929 3359 E. 123rd St., Cleveland, Ohio 
COLCAN, Robert L., Ph.B.For.Com. 1934 3160 Whitethorn Road, Cleveland Heights, Ohio 
COLLINS, John J., A.B. 1932 3010 Coleridge Koad, Cleveland Hts., Ohio 
CRAWFORD, Myron E., B.S. 1932 6718 Franklin Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 
CULL, Frank X., Ph.B. 1908 Bulkley Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio 
DALEY, Joseph L., Ph.B. 1924 3173 Yorkshire Road, Cleveland Heights, Ohio 
DEVINE, Thomas B., os. 1918. el. 1928 127 The Arcade, Cleveland, Ohio 
DEVITT, James R., E.E. 1913 2249 Haxcourt Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 
DORE, John J.. Ph.B.F.C. 1924 504 Union Trust Bldg., Cleveland. Ohio 
ORISCOLL. James H., LL.B. 1926 12528 Lancelot, Cleveland, Ohio 

SUPPLEMENT TO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
OUBBS, James A., C.E. I90S 1630 TOlliams Bide., Cleveland, Ohio 
DUPFV. Daniel W.. Ph.B.F.C. 192t 10803 Lake Ave., Cleveland. Ohio 
FITZGERALD. Joseph A., A.B. 1929 1337 W. 89lh St.. Cleveland. Ohio 
FLYNN, John R.. LL.B. 1923 608 ^Villiamson Bide.. Cleveland, Ohio 
FRILLICr, AWo M., B.C.S.For.Com. 1929 2SH Chester Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 
GALLAGHER, Arthur J., B.Arch. 1930 3006 Meadowbrook Blvd., Cleveland Hcishts. Ohio 
GALLAGHER. John A.. LL.B. 1926 3006 Meadowbrook Blvd., Cleveland Heiehts, Ohio 
GANNON, Francis J., B.S. 1931 9213 Har\-ard Ave., Cleveland. Ohio 
GAVIN, Joseph J.. A.B. 1931 1403 E. 109th St., Cleveland. Ohio 
GEOGHEGAN. Philip C. B.C.S. 1933 2230 Bellfield Road. Cleveland. Ohio 
GLEASON. John F.. os. 1917. el. 192G 1525 Williamson Bide.. Cleveland. Ohio 
GLEASON. Jr.. John W.. LL.B. 1923 c-o Central Police Station. Cleveland. Ohio 
GOUGH. Edward T.. B.C.S. 1933 3211 W. S6th St.. Cleveland. Ohio 
GRAF. Leo C . Ph.G. 1922. Ph.C. 1923 1532 Ansel Road. Cleveland. Ohio 
GRISANTI. Alfred C. A.B. 1931 ]778 Coventry Road. Cleveland Heiehts. Ohio 
GUARNIEBI, Frank G., B.S. 1928 St. Ann's Maternity Hospital. Cleveland, Ohio 
HAAS, Gaylord P., os. 1927 3721 \V. :69th St., Cleveland. Ohio 
HABERT. Elroy E.. A.B. 1926 3336 Berea Road. West Park Station, Cleveland. Ohio 
HART. John P.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1922 2969 Ripley Road. Cleveland. Ohio 
HOGAN, Donovan L., A.B. 1929 9917 Ramona Blvd., Cleveland. Ohio 
HOGAN. H. E.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1931 9917 Ramona Blvd., Cleveland. Ohio 
HULLER, Ralph P., A.B. 1934 12769 Cedar Road, Cleveland Heiehts, Ohio 
KANE, Eugene A.. C.E. 1914 20880 Erie Road, Rockj- River, Cleveland, Ohio 
KELLY, Robert C, A.B. 1930 2820 Ludlow Road, Cleveland. Ohio 
KNAPP, William H.. A.B. 1930 1252 Bonnie View, Cleveland. Ohio 
KOHL. Edward F., M.E. 1925 7507 Linwood Ave.. Cleveland. Ohio 
KOPROWSKI. Paul P.. A.B. 1931 Merrick Home. M.A. 1933 Boy Guid. Cleveland. Ohio 
KRAL, L. P., B.C.S. 1931 3711 Sutherland Road, Shaker Heights, Cleveland, Ohio 
KRIDER, William A., LL.B. 1925 506 Cuj-ahoea Bide.. Cleveland. Ohio 
LAKNER. Dr. Edward W.. B.S. 1925 9423 Ramona Blvd.. Cleveland, Ohio 
LECHOWICZ, Stanley J.. B.S. 1927 1320 E. 92nd St.. Apt. 3. Cleveland, Ohio 
LEPPIG. George, A.B. 1928 3355 Henderson Road, Cleveland Heights, Ohio 
LEROUX, Clayton G.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 3356 Daleford Road, Heights Branch, Cleveland, Ohio 
SLAREK. Edward G.. A.B. 1933 3856 E. 131st St.. Cleveland. Ohio 
MATOUSEK, John A.. B.C.S. 1933 13707 Drexmore Road. Cleveland, Ohio 
JfcCARTY, Dr. Hiram G., Ph.C. 1909 9801 Ramona Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio 
McFARLAND, Alexander W.. Ph.B. 1906 394 Eddy Road, Cleveland, Ohio 
McGARRY. Bernard C . B.Arch. 1919 12479 Cedar Road, Cleveland. Ohio 
McGRATH. Thomas J., os. 1907. el. 1926 820 Superior Ave.. W.. Cleveland. Ohio 
McSUNIGAL. Hugh J., os. 1927, cl. 1930 18007 Harland Ave.. Cleveland. Ohio 
MILLER, Donald C. LL.B. 1925 Terminal Tower. Cleveland, Ohio 
JIILLER, M. Harry. Ph.B. 1910 1300 Guardian Bide.. Cleveland. Ohio 
JHLLER. Eavmond T.. I.L.B. 1914 Terminal Tower. Cleveland. Ohio 
MILLIFF. Eugene A.. B.S.E.E. 1929 3555 Raymont Blvd.. University Heiehts. Clevel.lnd. Ohio 
MOBILY. Sylvester M.. B.S.Phar. 1928 5716 Kinsman Road. Cleveland, Ohio 
MOONEY. Jr., Charles A.. A.B. 1926 10012 Edeeualer Drive. Cleveland. Ohio 
MOONEY. Francis G.. A.B. 1914 I42II Larchmere Blvd.. Shaker Heights. Ohio 
MOONEY. William E.. B.S.E.E. 1932 1863 Beersford Road. Cleveland. Ohio 
MORAN. James J.. A.B. 1927 2349 Coventry Road. Cleveland Heights. Ohio 
MORRIS. Joseph H.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1931 1925 W. 74th St.. Cleveland. Ohio 
MURPHY. John P.. LL.B. 1912 3200 Terminal Tower. Cleveland. Ohio 
MURPHY. Ray M.. os. 1906. el. 1926 2843 Hampton Road. Cleveland. Ohio 
NANOVfC. Albert T.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1927 1531 Guardian BIdg.. Cleveland, Ohio 
NAUGHTON, Frank J.. A.B. 1925 1091 Parkward Drive. Cleveland. Ohio 
NEFF. Cyril W.. C.E. 1923 897 E. 146th St.. Cleveland. Ohio 
NEWMARK. Henry, os. 1878 Doanbrooke Hotel. 1924 W. 105th St.. Cleveland. Ohio 
O'BRIEN. Allison J.. B.S. 1933 3614 Behrwald. Cleveland. Ohio 
O'CONNOR. Pierce J.. A.B. 1928 2129 Lamberton Road. Cleveland Heights. Ohio 
O'NEILL. Denis J.. A.B. 1926 c-o The Albatross. White Motor Truck Co.. Cleveland. Ohio 
O'NEILL. Francis J., os. 1918. el. 1928 17815 Fernwood Drive. Shaker Heights. Cleveland. Ohio 
O'NEILL. Hugh N.. LL.B. 1917 1550 Oreeon St.. Cleveland. Ohio 
O'NEILL. William J.. A.B. 1928 2201 Orange .^ve.. Cleveland. Ohio 
ORLIKOWSKI. Edward A.. A.B. 1927 6715 Fleet .\ve.. Cleveland. Ohio 
PERONE. Rocco D.. B.S.E.E. 1929 750 Huron Road. Cleveland. Ohio 
POELKING. F. H.. A.B. 1934 1235 E. 84th St. Cleveland. Ohio 
POWERS. Jr.. John C. Ph.B.Com. 1920 lOlU Euclid Ave.. Cleveland. Ohio 
QUINN. John J.. Ph.BJor.Com. 1930 1261 Ansel Road. Cleveland. Ohio 
RALEIGH, John J.. A.B. 1931 1392 E. 94th SU Oeveland. Ohio 
RAUBER. Walter F.. Eii. 1923 17631 Kinsman Road. Cleveland. Ohio 
REIDY, John J.. LL.B. 1927 14744 Braemer Drive. Cleveland. Ohio 
RICE. John M.. LittB. 1922 390 E. I65th St.. Cleveland. Ohio 
RINI. Martin A.. A.B. 1928 2888 Ludlow Road. Cleveland. Ohio 
ROBERTO, Paul A., LL.B. 1928 13401 Fairraount Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio 
ROHR. Jr., Charles E„ A.B. 1930 1792 E. Ninth St., Cleveland, Ohio 
RUPPEL. Harold W., A.B. 1928 3703 Ingleside Road, Cleveland. Ohio 
RYAN. Miles J.. A.B. 1926 3248 W. 100th St.. aeveland. Ohio 
RYAN. William J.. B.C.S. 1932 2987 Yorkshire Road. Cleveland Heights. Ohio 
SAJniON. Daniel F.. A.B. 1925 5820 Detroit Ave.. Cleveland. Ohio 
SCALISE. Joseph J.. Ph.B.C. 192S lOOlO North Blvd.. Cleveland. Ohio 
SHIPACASSE, Albert J.. A.B. 1930 3407 Cedarbrook. Cleveland Heights. Ohio 
SEWARD, Edivard J.. A.B. 1934 St. Mary's Seminary. Cleveland. Ohio 
SILVESTBO. Samuel F.. B.S. 1930 2184 Fairmount Road. Cleveland Heights. Ohio 
SLACKFORO, Frederick J., os. 1917. el. 1922 1064 Union Trust Bldg.. Cleveland. Ohio 
SMITH. Joseph F.. Ph.B. 1914, LL.B. 191S 355 Datwood Drive. Cleveland, Ohio 
SONNHALTEK. John E.. BJVrch. 1928 14600 Euclid Ave.. Rosemont Apt.. Cleveland. Ohio 
STETTLEB. Jr.. H. Louis. Ph.B.Com. 1930 11119 Lake Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 
SVOBODA, Francis J., A.B. 1931 14606 Larchmere Blvd., Cleveland. Ohio 
THOMA, Carol A., B-Arch. 1928 2189 Bellfield Ave., E., Cleveland Heights, Ohio 
THOSIPSON. Joseph H., S.Com. 1921 The National City Bank. Cleveland. Ohio 
TISCHLER, Robert G.. B.S.E.E. 1933 2091 W. 91st St.. Cleveland. Ohio 
TRUDELLE. Matthew E., BJtrch. 1917 1023 Schofield Bide.. Cleveland. Ohio 
UPRICHARD, James E.. A.B. 1933 10310 Edeewater Drive. Cleveland. Ohio 
VENABLES. John L.. Ph.B.Com. 1934 10200 Robinson Ave.. Cleveland. Ohio 
VIKTORYN, Dr. John W.. B.S. 1928 4269 E. 133rd St.. Cleveland. Ohio 
WELSH. Maurice P.. Ph.B.Com. 1926 9126 Miles Ave.. Cleveland. Ohio 
WEPPNEB, Richard A.. B.S.Ch.E. 1928. 4245 Wooster Road. M.S. 1930 Fairview Villaee. Cleveland. Ohio 
WILHELMY. Chris B.. B.C.S. 1929 3602 W. 25th St . Cleveland. Ohio 
WINCHESTER. Otis S.. A.B. 1929 2968 Meadowbrook Blvd.. Cleveland Heiehts. Ohio 
WOLFRAM. Charles P.. A.B. 1929 519 City Hall. Cleveland. Ohio 
Y'ARR. Thomas C. B.SJhys.Ed. 1932 John Carroll University. Cleveland. Ohio 
COLDWATER BERNARD, Walter R.. A.B. 1930. LL.B. 1932 219 W South. Coldwater. Ohio 
COLLINS JOHNSTON, Dr. William H.. B.S. ISSS. C.E. 1SS6, M.S. 18S7 Collins, Ohio 
COLtTMBUS BtTTNEB, Herman W.. LittB. 1924 63 W. Weber Boad. Columbus. Ohio 
CANNON, Daniel F.. A.B. 1930 12 Jeffery Place. Columbus. Ohio 
CANTWELL, Edward G.. C.E. 1924 669 S. Roys Ave.. Columbus. Ohio 
CARROLL, James A., A.B. 1925 202 King Ave., Columbus, Ohio 
CREPEAU, O. W., Short Course 1S89 120 W. Chestnut St.. Columbus. Ohio 
DEVINE. Richard P.. os. 1919. el. 1925 1683 E. Fulton St., Columbus, Ohio 
EICHENLAUB. Raymond J.. S.Arch. 1915 232 Hostcr Realty Bids.. Columbus, Ohio 
rONTANA. John C, A.B. 1928 2985 N. High St., Columbus. Ohio 
GEORGES, Louis W., B.S.Phar. 1929 34 E. Northwood Ave-. Columbus. Ohio 
BAinLTON, Donald M., LL.B. 1912 222 S. Cassingham Road. Bexley, Columbus, Ohio 
HUGHES, James J.. B.S. 1931 199 W. Tenth Ave,, Columbus, Ohio 
JAEGER, John William. A.B. 1933 439 S. Park\-iew. Columbus, Ohio 
MCDONALD, Paui A., ei. 1921 186 E. Broad St.. Columbus, Ohio 
MCMULLEN, Arthur J., B.C.S. 1925 • 210 E. Oakland Ave.. Columbus. Ohio 
MOOBE, William J., A.B. 1926, M_A. 1927 1920 Greenway Ave., Columbus. Ohio 
SCHOnELD, Dr. Paul. Litt-B. 1920 283 K State. Columbus. Ohio 
SEIDENSTICKER, Norbert A.. B.C.S. 1928 201 S. Dawson Ave.. Columbus. Ohio 
SEIDENSTICKER, William J., C.E. 1925 201 S. Dawson Ave.. Columbus. Ohio 
ZIPPERER, Bernard E.. A.B. 1923 
K. of C. Home. Sixth t State Sts.. Columbus. Ohio 

CONNEATJT ROACH, Raymond W., B.S. 1932 374 Mill St., Conncaut, Ohio 
COSHOCTON RADER. Walter R., Ph.B.C. 1924 604 Chestnut St., Coshocton, Ohio 
CRESTLINE SCANLON. Leo J.. LL.B. 1930 616 Union St., Crestline, Ohio 
CUYAHOGA FALLS BAIB, Harold A., B.C.S. 1929 1864 S. 19th St . Cusahoga Falls, Ohio 
KEAKER. Joseph H., B.C.S. 1929 li76 24th St., Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio 
KBAUS, Bernard J.. B.C.S. 193S Sih-er Lake Blvd., Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio 
RAUB, Edgar J.. M.E. 1923 2225 16th St.. Cuyahoga Falls. Ohio 
CXGNET DRISCOLL. George F., C.E. 1929 Cygnet. Ohio 
DANVILLE COLOPY, Hugh M.. A.B. 1933 
R. F. D. 4, Danville, Ohio 

FESLER, James C. B.S.E.E. 1934 Danville, Ohio 
DAYTON ASIAN, Jr, Andrew A.. B.C.S. 1930 210 Lexington Ave., Dayton, Ohio 
BAUJAN, Harry C. Ph.B.Com. 1917 Director ol Athletics, University of Dayton. Dayton, Ohio 
BUHL, Francis R., B.C.S. 1933 260 Wroc Ave., Dayton. Ohio 
CLAY. A. K.. OS. 19I-I. el. 1931 924 Union Trust BIdg., Dayton, Ohio 
CBONIN, William F.. B.S.E.E. 1929 418 Crafton Ave, Dayton, Ohio 
FERNEDING, Hon. H.. os. 1893. el. 1915 125 Wisteria Drive. Dajton. Ohio 
FORD. Thomas H„ LL.B. 1911 127 Maple St. Dajton. Ohio 
JOHNSTON, J. Farrell. LL.B. 1924 Hotel Gibbons, Dayton, Ohio 
KAVANAUGH, William D., Ph.B.Com. 1927 Willet Mfg. Co.. Dayton. Ohio 
KUNTZ, Jr.. Peter, os. 1897. el. 1915 Commercial Bldg., Dayton, Ohio 
JIAYL, Eugene A., LL.B. 1924 1312 Ihird National Bldg., Dayton. Ohio 
MURPHY. Joseph B., LL.B. 1911 705 Winters Bank Bldg., Dayton. Ohio 
O'BOYLE, Frank J„ A.B. 1924 215 W. Second St , Da>ton, Ohio 
OHMER, Robert F., os. 1908 36 Spirea Drive, Dayton, Ohio 
O'LEABY, Bernard J.. B.S.E.E. 1929 627 Homcwood Ave.. Dayton. Ohio 
SHEA, John C. LL.B. 1917 706 Harris Bldg.. Dayton. Ohio 
SHEA, William E.. LL.B. 1923 309 Rockwood. Dayton. Ohio 
STONE, Robert J., B.C.S. 1934 1524 N. Euclid Ave., Dayton, Ohio 
TRANT, James L.. E.E. 1920 352 Telford Ave., Daiton. Ohio 
DEFIANCE SHLLER, Walter R.. LL.B. 1920 814 Washington St. Defiance, Ohio 
DELAWARE STBOHM, Francis H., Ph.B.For.Com. 1928 IS Griswold St , Delaware. Ohio 
DELPHOS KUNDERT, Louis H., Ph.B.Com. 1929 303 W. First St. Uelphos. Ohio 
OCKULY, Orville E.. A.B. 1932 601 E. Third St. Delphos. Ohio 
SCHAFFER, Carl F.. LL.B. 1926 630 W. Second St. Delphos, Ohio 
STALLKAMP, C. F.. B.C.S. 1931 428 S. Main St , Delphos, Ohio 
DENNISON CONLEV,, Edward K., A.B. 1930 701 W. Second St. Dennison. Ohio 
EAST CLEVELAND RYAN, William R.. LL.B. 1911 1761 Elberon Ave., East Cleveland, Ohio 
SWEENEY. Joseph L.. A.B. 1927 1900 Windemerc, East Cleveland. Ohio 
EAST LIVERPOOL 

WALSH, Jr.. Charles M., A.B. 1927 S20 St. George St, East End, East Liverpool, Ohio 
ELYRIA BOYLAN, James K.. Ph.B. 1917 246 Stanford Ave., Elyria, Ohio 
GLASOW, Arthur F., Ph.BJor.Com. 1932 213 14th St. Elyria, Ohio 
GUTH. Dr. Charles E., os. 1923. el. 1930 402 Elyria Block. Elyria, Ohio 
HALPIN, Donald F.. Ph.B.Com. 1926 123 Glendalc. Elyria. Ohio 
KORAN, David, os. 1931 218 14th St . Elyria. Ohio • 
nORAN, Kchard S.. os. 1923 Lorain County Bank Bldg.. El.vria, Ohio 
SEWARD, Tranas E., A.B. 1931 312 W. Fourth St. Elyria. Ohio 
FINDLAY ALGE. Robert P.. BJlrch. 1931 811 W. Main Cross St, Findlay, Ohio 
FORT RECOVERY SAUER. Theodore J.. Ph.G. 1915 Fort Recovery, Ohio 
FOSTORIA UARLEY. Francis M.. A.B. 1932 624 W. Center St . Fostoria. Ohio 
SHEIBLEY, Gerald A.. B.S. 192S 154 B. Tiffin St, Fostoria, Ohio 
FRANKLIN RILEY. John T.. LL.B. 1923 70 N. Main St. Franklin. Ohio 
GIBSON GILDEA, Walter V.. B.S. M.E. 1929 Gibson. Ohio 
GLANDORP BENNING. Anthony F.. B.S. Chcm.E. 192S Glandorf, Ohio 
BENNING, Jerome A., Ph.B. C. 1925 Glandorf, Ohio 
GREENVILLE MANIX, Raj-mond H.. B.C.S. 1931 Jefferson Road. Greenville. Ohio 
SIANIX. Robert P., A.B. 1929 F t Jefferson St. Greenville. Ohio 
HAMILTON BADEN, Louis C.. A.B. 1931 434 N. Ninth St, Hamilton. Ohio 
BOETTINGER, Leo J. M.E. 1925 Black-CIawson Co., Hamilton, Ohio 
BURNS, Michael O., LL.B. 1886 917 Virginia Ave., Hamilton, Ohio 
CONGDON, John W. LL.B. 1927 2047 Logan Ave.. Hamilton, Ohio 
FIEHREB, Marcellus A.. LL.B. 1927 203 Williams St, Hamilton, Ohio 
PATER, Vincent B.. LL.B. 1922 1002 Gray Ave.. Hamilton. Ohio 
WALSH, Harry F., LL.B. 1931 511 Rentschler Bldg.. Hamilton. Ohio 
HANGING ROCK JEFFREYS, William H., Ph.B.Com. 1928 Hanging Rock. Ohio 
HOWARD WELKER, Vincent B.. B.S. Biol. 1901 
R. F. D. No. 1. Howard. Ohio 

HUBBARD JACKSON, Samuel J.. A.B. 1933 231 Christian Ave.. Hubbard. Ohio 
mONTON WEINHEUIER, Edward F , B.C.S. 1934 520 Center St . Ironton, Ohio 
JEWELL MEKUS, Carl F.. B.C.S. 1925 Jewell, Ohio 
KENTON GELHAUS, Robert E.. B.C.S. 1933 423 N. Wayne St. Kenton, Ohio 
JOHNSON. Walter F., A.B. 1933 420 N. Detroit St, Kenton, Ohio 
ZEIS, Robert H.. B.S. 1930 R.D, 2, Kenton, Ohio 
LAKEWOOD BBUMLEVE, Clarence C, B.S.M.E. 1929 1130/ Hathaway Ave., Lakewood, Ohio 
BUTLER, Francis J. Jr., Ph.B. Com. 1930 16911 Edgewater Drive, Lakewood. Ohio 
BUTLER, Frank J. Sr., os. 1887, el. 1925 16911 Edgewater Drive, Lakewood. Ohio 
BUTLER, John P.. A.B. 1927 16911 £dge\vater Drive. Lakewood, Ohio 
BUTLER, Robert W.. A.B. 1934 1G911 Edsewater Drive, Lakewood, Ohio 
CANNY, James Patrick, LL.B. 1928 1660 Warren Rd., Lakewood, Ohio 
CHABLETON, Paul E.. A.B., 1929 1293 Hall. Lakewood, Ohio 
CONATON". William R, B.C.S. for Cora. 1932 15119 Lake Ave., Lakewood, Ohio 
COYNE, Gilbert H.. B.C.S. 1934 164S Onondaga Ave.. Lakewood, Ohio 
DRISCOLL, John. A.B. 1927 1455 Northland Ave.. Lakewood, Ohio. 
HEIHIANN, Dr. Joseph V.. B.S. 1921 14S05 Detroit Ave., Lakewood. Ohio 
HOLARAN, Paul D., B.C.S. 1929 1401 Royeroft Ave., Apt. 4, Lakewood O. 
JOYCE. Fred A., os. 1919. cl. 1931 Lake Shore Hotel, Lakewood, Ohio 
KAISER, Charles H.. A.B. 1928 1541 Robinwood, Lakewood, Ohio 
KERVER. Gcorsc, os. 1920. el. 1930 1381 Grancer, Lakewood, Ohio 
>nLLER, Howard A.. A.B. 1932 1475 Wagar Ave., Lakewood. Ohio 
O'DAY, Gcorse P.. LL.B. 1926 15S0 Chesterland Ave., Lakewood, Ohio 
PRENDERGAST, P. J., B.S.. 1931 2036 Wyandotte Ave., Lakewood, Ohio 
BEIDY. Jerome G., A.B. 1930 17109 Detroit Ave., Lakewood. Ohio 
SCHNEIDER, Cletus P., A.B. 1929 12556 Lake Ave., Lakewood. Ohio 
SLOUGH, Francis D.. A.B. 1933 1064 Fores Cliff Dr., Lakewood Ohio 
SOSniER, Albert A.. A.B. 1925 The Lake Shore. Lakewood. Ohio 
LANCASTER BROWN, Raymond S.. B.C.S. 1932 124 N. HiBh St.. Lancaster. Ohio 
GLYNN, James J.. B.C.S. 1026 General Glass Corp.. Lancaster. Ohio 
JOOS. Clarence T. Litt.B. 1924 105 W. Mulberry St., Lancaster, Ohio 
KILBURGER, Harry F.. A.B. 1932. LL.B. '34 181 E. Allen St., Lancaster, Ohio 
NESTER, Harry P.. LL.B. 1920 156 E. Chestnut St., Lancaster. Ohio 
NESTER, John H.. A.B.. 1928 156 E. Chestnut St., Lancaster, Ohio 
REID. James M.. E.E. 1919 344 E, 5th Ave., LancTSter. Ohio 
WEILAND, Paul E., E.E. 1917 515 Columbus St., Lancaster. Ohio 
LEB.\NON DE CHANT, Charles B.. B.S. 1893 257 S. Broadway, Lebanon, Ohio 
LEETONM. BURICK. Michael P.. B.C.S. 1933 Box 445, Lcetonia, Ohio 
DEAN, Anthony F. B.S. C.E. 1927 448 C<}lumbia St., Leetonia, Ohio 
DEAN, Edward J., Ph.B. for Com. 1928 448 Columbia St., Leetonia, Ohio 
LIMA BAKER. Richard R., A.B. 1931. MJV. 1934 1506 Oakland Park\vay, Lima, Ohio 
BARNHART, Henry F., Ph.B. For. Com. 1923 Moreland Manor, Lima, Ohio 
DURBIN, Francis W., LL.B. 1913 230 Dominion Building, Lima, Ohio 
KUHN, Robert J.. LL.B. 1931 821 Faurat, Lima, Ohio 
IMNSKY, Sherman W., B.C.S. 1933 412 W. Haller St.. Lima. Ohio 
SHANAHAN, George W.. Ch.E. 1917 625 S. Central Ave., Lima, Ohio 
LOGAN BLASIUS, Francis C.. Jr., Ph.B. Com. 1922 24 W. Main St., Logan, Ohio 
CANTY. John J. LL.B. 1929 332 Mound St., Logan. Ohio 
LONDON DWYEB, Wilfred T., Ph.B. Com. 1923 Dwyer Bros. Inc., London. Ohio 
LORAIN ARANYOS. William D.. B.S. Chem. E. 1929 1765 E. 28th St., Lorain. Ohio 
FERGUSON, Frederick G.. A.B. 1926 934 Mildred Avenue, Lorain, Ohio 
GBETCHEN. Edward J.. LL.B.. 1923 Lorain, Ohio 
IGOE. John D.. A.B. 1928 767 Park View Ave.. Lorain. Ohio 
KELLEHER. William A.. M.E. 1915 1113 Tenth St . Lorain. Ohio 
KENNEDY, John E.. Ph.B. Com. 1933 1722 E. Erie St., Lorain, Ohio 
REILLY, George H.. A.B. 1933 1134 Tenth St., Lorain, Ohio 
SVETE. Joseph A.. A.B. 1929 1759 E. 31st St.. Lorain. Ohio 
THOMAS. Ellas G.. A.B. 1928 2346 Broadway, Lorain, Ohio 
LOWELLVILLE jVIEEHAN, Thomas P., M.E. 1925 Lowellville. Ohio 
LOUDENVILLE JIEKUS, Francis A.. Ph.B. Com. 1926 Louden\*i]Ic, Ohio 
MANSFIELD KELLEY, Thomas C. OS. 1917. el. 1927 Westinghouse Electric Co.. Mansfield. Ohio 
O'BRIEN. Francis R.. A.B. 1931 722 W. Fourth St.. Mansfield. Ohio 
O'DDNNTILL, John C. LL.B. 1924 30S Walpark Building. Mansfield. Ohio 
MARR BURKHART. Peter A.. B.S. 1929 Marr, Ohio 
MARTIN'S FERRY EICK, Louis P., OS, 1913. cl. 1926 923 Virginia St.. Martin's Ferry. Ohio 
MASSILLON RYAN, R. F.. B.C.S. 1931 506 Sixth St.. Massillon. Ohio 
SEIFERT, James H., B.C.S. 1931 18 Tenth St., Massillon, Ohio 
WALSH, John C, B.C.S.. 1932 807 Wallace St.. S. E.. Massillon. Ohio 
WALTZ, John P. B.C.S. 1929 519 Si.\-th St. N.E., Massillon, Ohio 
WALTZ. William D.. B.C.S.. 1932 519 Sixth St, N.E., Massillon. Ohio 
MAUMEB RAGAN, Paul J. A.B. 1S97, LL.B. 1900 Maumee. Ohio 
MIASIISBURG DI JIATTEO, Charles A. Ph.B. Com. 1934 15 W. Central Ave.. Miamisburg, Ohio 
WEAVER. Dr. W. Burnett, B.S. Biol. 1897 12 S. Second. Miamisburg, Ohio 
MIDDLETO^VN KREBS, Robert J.. Ph.B. Com. 1927 1500 Forest Ave., Middletown, Ohio 
SORG, Claude A.. Ph.C. 1910 Paul A. Sorg Paper Co,t Middletoivn, Ohio 
MINGO JUNCTION CAVA. Dr. Jasper F.. B.S. 1924 646 Commerdal St. Hingo Junction. Ohio 
NEWARK BOLTON. Hon. Francis A.. LittB. 1894 Judge of Municipal Court. Newark. Ohio 
BUTTERFIELD. Arthur B.. E.K 1924 214 Woods. Newark. Ohio 
FITZGIBBON. James R.. LittB.. 1892 Newark Trust Bids.. Newarlt Ohio 
FLANIGAN. Mark Joseph. A.B. 1933 193 N. Fourth St. Newark. Ohio 
MC GONAGLE, Charles A. Ph.B. Joum. 1924 47S Hudson Ave., Newark. Ohio 
ROGERS, Patrick J., Ph.B. Com. 1923 420 E. Indiana Ave., Newark, Ohio. 
NEW LEXINGTON CUSICK, Dwight P. Ph.B. 1912. LL.B. 1915 New Lexington, Ohio 
NORTH BALTIMORE BLACKALL. Clair J.. B.S. 1929. M.S. 1930 407 N. Main St, North Baltimore, Ohio 
FITZPATRICK, James L., Ph.B. For. Com. 1929 213 S. "Torr St., North Baltimore. Ohio 
:inLLER. Paul E.. Ph.B. Com. 1926 324 N. Main St, North Baltimore, Ohio 
NORWALK BROWN, Louis Charks, B.S. 1934 48 State Street Norwalk. Ohio 
BROWN, Thomas M., B.S. Phys. Ed. 1930 43 State St., Norwalk, Ohio 
FOOS. Albert E., A.B. 192S 70 E. Seminary St, Norwalk, Ohio 
SOISSON. Leon J. SJf-E. 1913 7S Linwood Ave., Norwalk, Ohio 
NORWOOD SULLIVAN. Frederick R.. A.B. 1934 4314 Floral Ave.. Norwood, Ohio 
OTTAW.A. TOBE, Edward F., B.C.S. 1933 
R. R. 6, Ottawa, Ohio 

PAINESVILLE BRADY, Paul J.. A.B. 1928 728 S. State St, Paincsville, Ohio 
HALLINAN. Paul J.. A.B. 1932 5S1 E. Erie, Painesville. Ohio 
PARMA HANRATTY. Joseph E.. A.B. 1934 5610 Snow Road, Parma, Ohio 
PORT CLINTON PETTIBONE. Albert C. IX.B 1927 307 W. Fourth S t Port Clinton. Ohio 
PORTSMOUTH BRENNAN. Louis A.. A3 . 1932 1512 Sixth St . Portsmouth. Ohio 
FLANNIGAN. Raymond R. A.B. 1927 115 Front St , Portsmouth, Ohio 
KRAUSER, Harold L.. B.S. C.E. 1926. C.E. '30 Grimes Apts.. 2nd & Gay S t Portsmouth. O. 
WIGGINS. Jerome M.. Ph.B. Com, 1931 
R.F.D. 1. Box 194, Portsmouth, Ohio 
READING MADDEN. H. D.. LL.B.. 1915 Vice Pres. Gen. Match Co.. Reading. Ohio 
BITTMAN BURGER, Henry C, B.SJI.E. 1932 
S. Main St., Rittman, Ohio 
ROCKY RIVER KIENER. John A.. B.C.S.. 1932 216 Cornwall Rd.. Rocky River. Ohio 
KIENER,.Thomas J.. B.C.S. 1929 216 Cornwall Road. Rocky River. Ohio 
ROSEVUXE CROWLEY. Lawrence E.. LL.B.. 1927 Main St, Roseville. Ohio 
THE NOTRE DAME ALXIMNI DIRECTORY 
ST. MARY'S KOCH, John F.. B.C.S.. 1930 101 W. Spring St. St. Marj's. Ohio 
SALEM CAVANAUGH. James C. B.C.S. 1931 202 K HiKh St.. Salem. Ohio 
SANDUSKY EBERT, Neil W.. B.S. 193S 1618 Columbus Ave., Sanduskj*. Ohio 
MOUCH, Charles M„ B.Arch. 1925 925 W. WashinKton St., Sandusky. Ohio 
SAVORD. Edmond H.. LL.B. 1912 Box 135, Sanduskj-. Ohio 
SCHNURR. Alfred A., B.S.M.E. 1928 515 W. Washington St., Sandusky. Ohio 
SMITH. Rus,=ell R., B.S. C.E. 192S 2117 Monroe St., Sandusky, Ohio 
WAGN'ER, George A., Ph.B.C. 1928 740 East Park. SanduskT. Ohio 
SHAKER HEIGHTS ENTRUP. Cyril P., B.C.S. 1933 3270 Warrington Rd.. Shaker Heights, O. 
PENOTE, John A.. B.S. M.E. 1933 3215 Warrington Rd.. Shaker Heights. O. 
RADDATZ. William L., A.B„ 1933 2903 Kingsley Koad, Shaker Heights, Oliio 
RUPPEL. John L.. A.B. 1934 17821 Fernway Road. Shaker Heights, Ohio 
WALSH, George P™ B.S. Arch. 1910 3305 DcSoto Ave.. Shaker Heights, Ohio 
SHERWOOD RIGEL, Francis J., B.S. 1932 Sherwood, Ohio 
SOLON MILLER, Gerald W., LL.B. 1925 R, F. D. No. 1, Solon, Ohio 
SOUTH EUCLID BLOOM, Richard A., A.B. 1930 4046 Princeton Blvd., South Euclid, Ohio 
SPRINGFIELD KABERKERK. Ernest F.. B.S. M.E. 1933 91/ Lagunda Ave., Springfield, Ohio 
HALLORAK, Aaron J., LL.B. 1919 828-30 Fairbanks Bldg., Springfield, Ohio. 
KAVANAUGH, George F.. B.C.S.. 1931 1417 S. Limestone, Springfleld. Ohio 
KELLER, Matthew E., A.B. 1930 305 S. Burnett Rd., Springfield, Ohio 
SCANLON, Michael J., Ph.B. Com. 1921 743 Kenton Ave., Springfield, Ohio 
SHOCKNESSY, James A.. A.B. 1928 526 S. Fountain Ave.. SpringHeld. Ohio 
SHOUVLIN, Daniel R. E.. S.M.E. 1914 2345 E. High St., Springfield, Ohio 
TEHAN, Edward A., Ph.B. Com. 1928 1611 S. Fountain Ave.. Springfield, Ohio 
STEUBENVILLE DOUGHERTY, Sylvester J., B.S.M.E. 1929 718 Sixth Ave., Steubenville. Ohio 
SHOGER. Francis A.. M.B. 1903 1315 Penna. Ave.. Steubenville, Ohio 
SWANTON PILLIOD, L. N., OS. 1877. ci. 1926 Pilliod Cabinet Co., Swanton, Ohio 
TIFFIN DORE, William H.. LL.B. 1930 33 Adams St., Tiffin, Ohio 
FLECK. Philip L., S.E.E. 1911 89 JefTerson St.. TifTin. Ohio 
LAUTF.RMILCH. Paul A.. M.E. 1924 No. 8 Rodrick Apts.. Tiffin, Ohio 
LEAHY, James C. B.S.C.E. 1930 186 S. Sandusky St.. Tiffin, Ohio 
LEAHY, Roswell C„ B.S.aE. 1928 186 S. Sandusky St., Tiffin. Ohio 
McCARTAN, L. B.. Ph.B. For. Com. ir.1l 136 N. Sandusky St., Tiffin, Ohio 
PAHL, Charles E., Jr.. B. Arch. 1930 375 Monroe St.. Tiffin, Ohio 
SCHjnDT. Charles J.. S.E.K 1911 260 Melmorc St., Tiffin. Ohio. 
WAGNER, Fred J.. B.C.S. 1929 152 Sycamore St., Tiffin, Ohio 
WAGNER, Joseph R.. B.C.S. 1926 107 W. Perry St., Tiffin, Ohio 
WEIMERSKIRK, Howard E.. B.C.S, 1926 299 Circular St., Tiffin. Ohio 
TOLEDO CAREY, John Q.. LL.B. 1927 2514 Chase St., Toledo, Ohio 
CLARK, Paul L., B.C.S. For. Com. 1929 440 Victoria PI.. Toledo. Ohio 
CLARKE, William P., Jr., A.B. 1927 3221 134th SU Toledo. Ohio 
COCHRANE, John C. LL.B. 1923 3319 Kirkwall Rd., Ottawa Hill. Toledo. O. 
CONNOLLY^, John P.. A.B. 1932 138 ISth St., Toledo. Ohio 
COVERT, George F.. Jr.. Ph.B. Com. 1928 2501 Scottwood Ave.. Toledo, Ohio 
DEDEKICH, Robert J., LL.B. 1911 c/o Wells-Bowen Co.. 300 Huron St., Toledo, Ohio 
DONNELLY. Edward, LL.B. 1920 3920 Berkeley Drive. Toledo, Ohio 
GRIFFIN, Thomas E.. A.B. 1933 521 Crittenden Ave., Toledo, Ohio 
HAGERTV, Edward J.. LL.B. 192S 536 Woodville St., Toledo. Ohio 
HENAHAN, M. I., os. 1915, el. 1928 2004 N. Cove Blvd.. Toledo, Ohio 
HURLEY, John P.. Jr.. Ph.B. C. 1925 2137 Scottwood Ave., Toledo, Ohio 
KESTING, Bernard G., C.E. 1925 173 E. Broadway, Toledo, Ohio 
KRANZ, Albert J.. LL.B. 1917 233 Huron St., Toledo, Ohio 
LA POINTE, Raymond J., B.C.S. 1928 2311 Fulton St.. Toledo, Ohio 
LISIAKOWSKI, Edwin G.. B.C.S. 1933 401 Junction Ave,. Toledo. Ohio 
LOCKARD, Frank, os. 1919. el. 1925 2102 Calumet Ave.. Toledo. Ohio 
LYNCH, Edwin J.. LL.B.. 1910 642 Nicholas Bldg,. Toledo, Ohio 
.MC JLAHON, James T., LL.B. 1917 2711 Scottwood Ave.. Toledo, Ohio 
MC MAHON, John B.. A.B. 1909 521 Board of Trade Bldg., Toledo, Ohio 
MUNGER, Harold H.. B.Arch. 1915 1025 Nicholas Bldg., Toledo. Ohio 
NYHAN. Kenneth F.. LL.B. 1922 831 W. Woodruff. Toledo. Ohio 
ROGGE. Carlton A.. B.S. E.E. 1926 649 South St.. Toledo, Ohio 
RYAN, Arthur W., LL.B., 1914 941 Nicholas Bldg.. Toledo, Ohio 
SCHARF, Norbert, os. 1926. el. 1930. Toledo Edison Co.. Toledo. Ohio 
SLOAN, Francis D., B.C.S. 1929 329 Avalon Place. Toledo, Ohio 
SSHTH, Chester E.. B.C.S. 1929 c/o Commercial Credit Co., Toledo, Ohio 
SPRENGER, Fred. os. 1927. el. 1930 3129 Kimball Ave.. Toledo, Ohio 
STOEPLER, Ambrose M., A.B. 1931 2465 Detroit Ave.. Toledo, Ohio 
STOEPPLER, Robert H., A.B. 1928 2465 Detroit Ave.. Toledo. Ohio 
SUDER. Arthur H.. Ph.B. Com. 1926 2941 Cherry St.. Toledo. Ohio 
TILLMAN, Joseph L., Jr., M.E. 1921 c/o Wine Railway Appliance Co.. 2237 Wafer Works Dr.. Toledo. Ohio 
TILLMAN. Raymond L.. Ph.B.C. 1925 29 Rosalind Place. Toledo. Ohio 
TOMPKINS. Philip J.. B.S. Phar. 1929 3047 W. Bancroft. Toledo. Ohio 
TOTH, Emery S.. LittB. 1923 191 ^Vhittmore St.. Toledo, Ohio 
WETLI, Joseph L., LL.B. 1931 717 Starr Ave.. Toledo. Ohio 
WILCOX, Walter W., LL.B.. 1927 646 Palmwood Ave.. Toledo, Ohio 
YEAGER. Edmund N.. M.S. 1932 522 Haekett Rd.. Toledo, Ohio 
TROY ROTH, John .^., Ph.B. Com. 1926 437 Lincoln Ave.. Troy, Ohio 
UKBANA POWERS, Robert F.. LL.B. 1927 465 Court St.. Urbann. Ohio 
WADSWORTH STKONZ. Eugene, Sja.E. 1916 410 High St., Wadsworth, Ohio 
WARREN CAVANAUGH. F. R. os. 1913, el. 1926 239 Homewood Ave.. Warren, Ohio 
WASHINGTON COURT HOUSE CRAINE, James F.. S.Com. 1917 21 N. North St.. Washington C. H.. Ohio 
•\VELLINGTON KIBWAN, Edward E.. B.S. C.E. 1927 c/o Hobart Herrick. Wellington. Ohio 
WELLS VILLE MC SWEENEY. Edward L.. A.B. 192S 834 Main Street, Wellsville, Ohio 
MC SWEENEY. James L., Ph.B. 1924 834 Main St.. WellsTJlIe, Ohio 
\VESTON EWING, Wayne H., B.S. Chem.E. 192S Weston. Ohio 
WICKLIFF FARREN, William E.. B.S. E.E. 1915 Wickliff. Ohio 
WILLOUGHBY THOMAS, George E.. Ph.B. Com. 1927 24 Ridge St.. Willoughby. Ohio 
WOOSTER BRESSON, Bernard C. A.B. Phys.Ed. 1932 837 N. Grant. Wooster. Ohio 
YOUNGSTO\VN BUCKLEY, John J., Ph.B. 1920. .\.B. 1921. 409 Wick Bldg., Youngstown, O. J.D. 1922 
CUSHWA. Charles B., A.B. 1931 2227 Cordova Ave., Youngstown, Ohio 
DAHHAN, Raymond J., Ph.B. Com. 1928 605 Laicewood St., Youngstown. Ohio 
DE BARTOLA, Edward 3.. B.S. C.E. 1932 27 W. Judson. Youngstown, Ohio 
BUNLEVy, William A.. B.C.S. 1930 2090 Guadalupe. Youngstown, Ohio 
ENBIGRT. Thomas E.. Ph.B. For. Com. 1933 172 Cleveland St., Youngstown. Ohio 
FALLON, Regis, os. 1916. 66 E. Boston Ave.. Youngstown. Ohio 
FLEMING. Paul J.. A.B. 1926 433 Caroline St.. Youngstown. Ohio 
RAGAN, John R.. B.C.S. 1934 594 Cohasset Dr.. Youngstown. Ohio 
KANE. John J.. LL.B. 1925 1017-18 First Nat. Bank. Building. Youngstown, Ohio 
KELLEY. George H., A.B. 1928 432 Lexington Ave.. Youngstown. Ohio 
THE NOTRE DAME ALXTMNI DIRECTORY 
KOKEN, Michael R.. B.S. Phys.Ed. 1933 1115 Franklin Ave., Youngstown, Ohio 
LEONELU. Eli. B.S. Phar. 1929 47 W. Judson Ave., Youngstown, Ohio 
MELODY, Fcli.i J.. Litt.B.. 1923 163 Landendale Ave.. Youngstown. Ohio 
MORAN. G. E.. B.C.S. 1932 134S Quinn. Younijstown. Ohio 
MOKAN. John F.. A.B. 1929 1348 Quinn. Youngstown. Ohio 
PETRETIC, Charles J.. A.B. 1932 30 S. Lorain St.. Youngstown. Ohio 
REPASKY, Sleiihcn W., B.S. Ch.E. 1927 30 Haseltine Ave.. Youngstown. Ohio 
RICE. Chester F.. B.S. C.E. 192S 477 LaClide St.. W.. Youngstown. Ohio 
SAVAGE, Francis H.. B.Arch. 1933 125 E. Philadelphia Ave.. Youngstown. O. 
SMITH, Norman W.. Ph.B. C. 1924 126 Rosb'n Drive. Youngstown. Ohio 
VAHEY, Walter H.. A.B. 1927 S2S Fifth Ave., Youngstown. Ohio 
VAHEY, William H.. A.B. 1927 249 Norwood A\-e.. Youngstown, Ohio 
VASCHAK, Joseph G., B.C.S. 1934 40 Lincoln Ave., Youngstown. Ohio 
WOLF, Ivan R.. B.C.S. 1929 52 Halleck St.. Youngstown. Ohio 
ZANESVILLE BRENNEL, Lorenzo L.. B.S. Ph.Ed. 1929 134 Hamline Ave.. Zanesville. Ohio 
GOLDCAMP, Lawrence H.. L.L.B. 1922 Zanesvitte. Ohio 
KAPLAN, Charles E.. B.S. 1930 38 Jewett Dr.. Zanesville. Ohio 
MC INTIRE, T. Vincent. A.B. 1930 1007 Greenwood Ave.. iCancsville, Ohio 
OKLAHOMA 

ADA QUIGLEY, John T.. Ph.B.C. 1925 Box 386. Ada. Okla. 
ELK CITY STORY, Edward J.. Ph.G. 1911 Story Hotel. Elk City. Okla. 
EL RENO CRADEN, Dr. Paul J.. B.S. 1924 1208 So. Barker St.. EI Reno. Oklahoma 
VON MERVELDT, Egon C. C.E. 1922 El Reno. Okla. 
ENID »UHONEY, John. Short Com. 1922 Box 632. Enid. Okla. 
MEY-ER. Henry A.. B.C.S. 1032 1920 W. Main St.. Enid. Okla. 
GUTHRIE SMITH, B. M., A.B. 1934 1008 E. Noble St.. Guthrie. Okla. 
LA\VTON KEYS, Albert H.. E.E. 1912 Lawton. Okla. 
MUSKOGEE DAILY, Gerald J.. Jr. Ph.B. Com. 1921 
Daily Morton Laundry Co., 
Muskogee, Okla. 

FITZGERALD, Gerald T.. B.C.S. 1933 502 N. l.tth St.. Muskogee, Okla. 
OKARCHE LOOSEN, Paul. Ph.B. Oim. 1920 Vice-Pres. First Bank of Okarchc. Okarche. Okla. 
WRIGHT, Charles R.. Ph.B. For. Com. 1929 Okarche. Okla. 
OKLAHOMA CITY ASKEW, J. H., A.B. 1931 509 W. 20th St.. Oklahoma City, Okla. 
BURKE, James E.. Ph.B. For Com. 1930 509 W. 16th. Oklahoma City. Okla. 
CONNOLLY, James J.. LL.B. 1919 1305 Hudson St.. Oklahoma City. Okla. 
DONOVAN, Mark H.. B.S. 1933 1213 N. W. 3Sth St., Oklahoma City. Okla. 
JIARTIN. John B.. A.B. 1934 200 W. 14th St.. Oklahoma City. Okla. 
MONNOT, Charles L.. B.C.S. 1934 1304 W. Tenth St.. Oklahoma City. Okla. 
OKMULGEE SCHUMACHER, Leo A.. LL.B. 1913 Box 39. Okmulgee. Okla. 
TULSA BLAKE, Marion J.. A.B. 1933 610 S. Elwood Ave., Tulsa, Oklahoma 
FAGAN, Leo P.. B.C.S. 1932 1399 E. 27th St., Tulsa Okla. 
LANTRY, Joseph T.. C.E. 1907 1029 E. ISth St.. Tulsa Okta. 
LEROUX, Edward W.. B.S. Ch.E. 1933 1303 E. 26th St.. Tulsa. Okla. 
LYONS, Thomas D., Litt.B. 1904 Box 2307. Tulsa. Okb. 
MC GRAW, Joseph R., os. 1918, el. 1929 2400 Exchange B.ank Bldg., Tulsa, Okla. 
MC KEEVER, Charles, A.B. 1931 1402 S. Baltimore St , Tulsa, Okla. 
MORAN, Edgar F., M.E. 1917 2502 So. Woodward Blvd.. Tulsa. Okla. 
MORAN. Joseph A.. A.B. 1930. LL.B. 1032 1611 So. Carson, Tulsa, Oklahoma 
MORAN. Walter B. Moran. E.E. 1924 1712 E. 29th St.. R.R.. Tulsa. Okla. 
RAHE. Paul A.. L.L.B. 1925 Gypsy Oil Co.. Land Dept.. Tulsa. Okla. 
SHEA, Thomas F.. os. 1909. el. 1932 E-xchange National Bank. Tulsa. Okla. 
SHERRY, William J., os. 1919 el. 1928 S41 Kennedy Bldg.. Tulsa. Okla. 
SKELLEY, Norbert F.. Grad. Phar. 1925. SOS University Club. Tulsa. Okla. 
WADE, James B.. A.B. 1933 423 So. Elwood St.. Tulsa. Oklahoma 
PORTEAU YOUNG, Murray A.. A.B. 1929 Porteau, Okla. 
OREGON 

ALBANY BARRETT, Edward L.. A.B. 1929. J.D. 1933 710 Fifth St.. Albany. Oregon 
BARRETT, John R.. M.A. 1932 637 W. Fifth St.. Albany. Oregon 
ASTORIA HOPE, James L., LL.B. 1911 1205 Astoria Savings Bank Bldg.. Astoria. Oregon 
FRANCISCOVICH. Frank M.. LL.B. 1921 321 17lh St., Astoria, Oregon 
BURNS FOLEY, Charles B.. LL.B. 1922 Burns. Oregon 
HODLER, Albert M.. LL.B. 1923 Bums. Oregon 
CORNELIUS MORRISSEY', Joseph E.. Ph.B. Com. 1928 Cornelius. Oregon 
CORVALLIS DOLAN, Samuel M.. C.E. 1910 Corvallis, Oregon 
DALLES SHARP, Ivan C, Ph.B. 1923 404 B. Fourth St., The Dalles, Oregon 
EUGENE FRANZWA, Gregory F., B.S. C.E. 1932 1338 Jefferson Ave., Eugene, Oregon ' 
SCHMIDT. Clarence R.. B.S. E.E. 1931 252 West Seventh St. Eugene, Oregon 
GRAND RONDE MURPHY, Edward J.. B.C.S. 1927 c-Kj Midway Lumber Co., Gr. Ronde. Ore. 
LA GRANDE .MEYERS, Alfred L., A.B. 1926. M.A. 1928 702 Spring Ave., La Grande, Ore. 
MOUNT ANGEL PERSYN, Henry A., B.S. Ch.E. 1928. Mount Angel. Ore. M.S. 1930. Ph.D. 1933 
SCHARBACH, John A.. A.B. 1932 Mount Angel. Oregon 
PENDLETON KILKENNY, John F.. LL.B. 1925 Elks Club. Pendleton, Oregon 
PORTLAND BUTINE, Arthur B.. E.E. 1921 Oregonian Bldg.. Portland. Ore. 
CALLICRATE, Dominic L.. C.E. 1908 1196 Vancouver, Portland. Oregon 
CLIFFORD, Twomey M., LL.B. 1914 5836 N. B. Garfield Ave.. Portland. Oregon 
COLLIER. Francis T., Ph.B. 1907. A.M. 190S 721 Yeon Bldg.. Portland. Oregon 
CONWAY. Morrison A.. C.E. 1914 1514 Vancouver Ave.. Portland. Oregon 
CULLIGAN. James A.. M.E. 1921 c.<J Columbia University, Portland. Oregon 
CUNNINGHAM, Fred L.. B.C.S. For. Com. 1930 2127 N. E. Multnomah St.. Porthand. Ore. 
DALY, Walter M.. Litt.B. 1904 325 S.W. Fourth Ave., Portland, Oregon 
GAltlBEE, Eber B.. A.B. 1873. A.M. 1876 1811 N. W. Couch St, Portland, Oregon 
HARSTICK, Harold J.. E.E. 1925 3635 N. E. 39th Ave.. Portland. Oregon 
HENNESSEY, Francis D.. LL.B. 1894 East Seventh and Broadway. Portland, Ore. 
HIRSCHBUHL, Charles J. Ph.B. Com. 1922 2011 Siskiyou St.. Portland. Oregon 
HOUCK, George A.. C.E. 1888 945 Gantenbein Ave.. Portland, Oregon 
HURST, Roscoc P., LL.B. 190S 1406 Yeon Bldg., Portland. Oregon 
ISHERWOOD. FelLx W.. Jr.. Ph.B. Com. 1930 1054 Quimby St.. Portland. Oregon 
JOYCE, Dr. Thomas, el 1926 600 Mayer Bldg., Portland. Oregon 
KAVANAUGH, Norbert R.. A.B. 1926 817 Irving St.. Portland. Oregon 
KIEBNAN, Frank A., Jr.. os 1917. el 1926 434 Hall St. Portland. Oregon 
LACEY, Hugh V.. os 1915 419 S. W. Sixth St, Portland. Oregon 
LONGERGAN, Frank J.. LL.B.. 1904 Porter Btdg„ Portland, Oregon 
MACNAB, L. Bernard, Ph.B.F.C. 1925 Terminal Sales Bldg.. Portland. Oregon 
MURPHY, Eugene L.. os 1916 3639 K.E. 25th Ave., Portland. Oregon 
MC DOUGALL, Natt, os 1900. el 1930 c-o A. Gutherie & Co.. Sherlock Bldg., Portland. Oregon 
MC DOUGALL. Natt G.. Jr.. A.B. 1933 552 Sherlock Bldg.. Portland, Oregon 
MC MAHON, Thomas D.. LL.B. 1927 416 E. 22nd. St., N., Portland, Oregon 
THE NOTEE DAME ALTBINI DIKECTORY 
MELLEY.. John E.. B.C.S. 1925 225 Pittock Block. Portland. Oregon 
O'HARA. John P.. Ph.B. 1902 c-o Catholic Sentinel. Railway Exchange Building. Portland. Oregon 
OWEIL. Brie. Gen. Joseph P.. B.S. 1883 Army RccruitinB Sta.. 2nd & Wash. Sts. Portland. Oregon 
PETERSCHMIDT, Arnold B.. B.C.S. 1927 Golumbia TJniversity, University Park Sta.. Portland, Oregon 
FHILBROOK, George W., B.S. Biol. 1912 1247 railing St.. Portland, Oregon 
SHANNON. Leo J.. C.E. 1912 5th and Columbia Sts.. Portland. Oregon 
SCHEPTER, Rolden A.. A.B. 1933 1400 Alameda Drive. Portland. Oregon 
SCHMITT. William C. C.E. 1910 Consolidated Ry. Equip. Co.. Portland. Ore. 
SHEA. Dr. William A.. LittB. 1902 581 E. 22nd St. No.. Portland. Oregon 
SULLIVAN. John R.. Ph.B. Com. 1930 460 E. 17th St.. N.. Portland. Oregon 
BABR. Carl J., Ph.B. 1923 185 N. 14th St.. Salcm. Oregon 
HEENAN. Dennis A.. A.B. 1930 352 N. Summer St., Salem, Oregon 
WARRENDALE GORMAN. Anthony J., M.E. 1923 Warrendale. Oregon 
IVHEELEH LEWIS. Clyde A.. A.B. 1934 
•\Vheeler. Oregon 
WOODBURN SCOLLARD, Stephen F.. LL-B. 1914 Woodburn, Oregon 
PENNSYLVAMA 
ALDENVILLE LOESCH. Arthur A.. B.S. C.E. 1932 Aldenville, Pa. 
ALTQUIPPA HALLAUER. Edward W.. B.S. C.E. 1934 1316 Irwin Street, Aliquippa, Pa. 
ALTOONA BURNS, Leonard A.. B.C.S. 1925 1635 20th Ave.. Altoona. Pa. 
CLEAR. William S., Ph.B. Com. 1930 870 22nd St., AItoon.-i. Pa. 
HOFniAN, John N., Jr.. Ph.B. Com. 1930 887 23rd St., Altoona, Pa. 
LEE, Edward F.. Ph.B. Com. 1931 210 13th St., Altoona, Pa. 
MARTIN, Gcorse R.. Ph3 . Com. 1928 917 Seventh Ave., Altoona, Pa. 
MC ALEER, Charles A.. A.B. 1931 181G Fourth SL. Altoona, Pa. 
MC ALEER, IVilliam J.. B.C.S. 1931 1518 19th Ave, Altoona, Pa. 
WHARTON. Arthur T., A.B. 1931 2001 Fifth St., Altoona, Pa. 
AMBRIDGE RIHN, Charles J.. Ph.B. Com. 1929 710 Maplewood Ave., Ambridge, Pa. 
SKEEHAN. Thomas F , B.S. Ch.E. 1933 Spang-Chalfant Co., Ambridge, Pa 
ARCHBALD PHILBIN, Edmund P.. A-B. 1934 310 Laurel St., Archbald, Pa. 
FRANCIS, Harry H.. Jr., A.B. 1930 IS Spring Ave., Ardroore, Penn. 
ASPINWALL GALLAGHER, Hugh A.. Ph.B. For. Com. 1930 214 Second St., Aspinwall, Pa. 
ATHENS CDLLEN, James W.. A.B. 1928 607 N. Main, Athens, Pa. 
GIESS, Lewis K.. B.S. 1932 405 N. Main St, Athens, P.a, 
AVALON DELANEV. Joseph P.. M.E. 1921 652 Center Ave., Avalon, Pa. 
BADEN SKEEHAN. John K.. Ph.B. Com. 1932 417 Mellon Ave., Baden, Pa. 
BEDFORD MC LAUGHLIN, John C, A.B. 1928 214 E. Pitt St. Bedford, Penn. 
BELLEVUE CRAY, John P.. Ph.B. Com. 1924 37 S. Ralph Ave., Bellevuc, Pa. 
BETHLEHESI GORSLIN. William A.. B.S. Ardi.E. 1929 426 Fifth St, Bethlehem, Pa. 
GRIFFIN. Albion M.. LL.B. 1929 571 Main St. Bethlehem. Fa. 
MC INTYRE, Leo R.. A.B. 1928 708 Eighth Ave. Bethlehem. Pa. 
BLAIRSVILLE SHORT. John C, A.B. 1928 234 S. Spring. Blairsville. P.a. 
BRIDGEVILLE MAHIN. William E.. B.S. 1928 632 Elizabeth St. Bridgeville. P.-i. 
BUTLER GARBER. Bernard A., A.B. 192S 131 Race St. Butler. Pa. 
ROCKENSTEIN, W. J., A.B. 1934 305 N. McKcaan St, Butler, Pa. 

WALSH. Philip A,, Ph.B. Com. 1929 323 N. Elm St, Butler, P.-i. 
CAilBRIDGE SPRINGS 
POWERS, William H., B.S. Agri. 1922 Cor. Beach & Ross Ave., Cambridge Springs, Pa. 
CAMP HILL FARRELL, Joseph R., E.E. 1915 32 N. 27th St, Camp Hill, Pa. 

CANONSBURG BUCKLEY, Francis J., Ph.B. Com. 1929 221 Ordiard Ave., Canonsburg, Pa. 
REAGAN, Robert P., LittB. 1924 502 Cecil St, Canonsburg, Pa. 
CANTON RYAN, John F.. Ph.B. Com. 1924 217 Center St. Canton, Pa. 

CARBONDALE KRANTZ, Ferdinand J.. A.B. 1933 113 Terrace St, Carbondale, Pa. 
KRANTZ, Leonard P., A.B. 1929 113 Terrace St, Carbondale, P t 

CARNEGIE FAHEY, Michael E., C.E. 1922 449 Beechwood Ave., Carnegie, Pa. 
PORTMAN, Charles J., A.B. 1925 518 Chestnut St, Carnegie, Pa. 
SCHAFFER, Henry P., B.S. C.E. 1934 242 Bodcn Ave., Carnegie. Pa. 

CHARLEROI JIARTINET. George C. A.B. 1934 607 Failowfield Ave., Charleroi, Penn. 
RUSSELL, James K., A.B. 1929 732 Washington Ave., Charleroi, Pa. 
CHESTER MC CAFFEBY, Hugh F.. LL.B. 1927 Ninth and Highland Ave., Chester, Pa. 
JHELCAREK, Joseph K., M.E. 1924 812 Morton Ave., Chester, Pa. 
CLARKS SUMMIT MANNING. Joseph F., A.B. 1929 405 State St, darks Summit, Pa. 
CLEARFIELD LEITZINGER. John F.. Ph.B. Com. 1928 409 Market St, Clearfield, Pa. 
LYTLE, Charles P., B.S.M.E. 1928 314 Walnut St. Clearfield, Pa. 
COALDALE SHARPE. John F.. BJiI. 1934 131 E. Water St, Coaldale, Pa. 
CONNELLSVILLE LAMBERT. John L.. B.S. E.E. 1932 408 E. Patterson Ave., Connellsville, Pa. 
SOISSON, John R., B.S.E.E. 1933 214 E. Fairview Ave., Connellsville, Pa. 
CRAFTON BANNON, Bernard A., Com. 1908 Crafton, Pa. 
BONEY, John H,. Jr.. A.B. 1930 126 Union Ave.. Crafton, Pa. 
RUDOLPH. Simon R., B.Arch. 1917 45 Coulter St, Crafton, Pa. 
CRESSON SCHRALL. Leo S., B.S. Phys.Ed. 1929 Box 232, Cresson, Pa. 

DARLING LLOYD. Edgar H., B.S. Chcm.E. 1931 Darlington, Fa. 
DELANCEY STEFANSCIK. Peter J., A.B. 1930, LL.B. '32 DeLancey, Pa. 
DONORA FUNN. Edward B., C.E. 1925 1025 McKean Ave, Donora, Pa. 
DOBMONT ARNOLD, Jerome C, Ph.B. 1924 2907 Boelkel Ave., Dorroont, Pa. 
STETTLER. Bernard J., Ph.B. Com. 1928 2934 Espy Ave., Dormont, Pa. 
DREXEL HILL DAVIS, Wlliam C. Jr., B.S. E.E. 1927 2633 Eldon Ave., Dre-xel Hill, Pa, 
DUBOIS VALLELY, Eugene D., A.B. 1932. LL.B. 1934 600 W. Washington Ave., DuBois, Pa. 
DDNMOBE GBEAVY, William F.. Jr., Ph.B. Journ. 1924 307 W. Drinker St, Dunmore, Penn. 
GYORDA, John M., MJi.. 1931 702 Webster, Dunmore. Pa. 
HARRINGTON, Thomas J.. B.S. C.K 1934 407 Vf. Drinker St. Dunmore, Pa. 
DUQUESNE KASPER, Edward L., A.B. 1933 14 Mill St, Duquesne, Pa. 
EAST BRADY FILSON, Robert B.. A.B. 1933 East Brady, Pa. 
EAST PITTSBURGH MORGAN, James "A.. A.B. 1930 615 Madison Ave., East Pittsburgh, Pa. 
PAVLICK. John F., A.B. 1934 118 Bessemer Ave,, East Pittsburgh, Pa. 
EBENSBURG SCHETTIG, Donald A.. Ph.B. For. Com. 1930 613 W. Crawford St, Ebcnsburg, Pa. 
SOLOMON, David S.. B.S. 1928 208 W. High St, Ebensburg, Pa. 
ERIE BARBER. Thomas W., LL.B., 1924 416" Neivman St, Erie Pa. 
BRUGGER, Leo J., A.B. 1934 333 E. Eighth St, Erie, Pennsylvania 
CARNEY. Leo H., B.C.S. 1930 1190 E. Lake Road. Erie, Pa. 
CARNEY, Lionel A., LittB. 1924 919 Poplar, Erie, Pa. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI DIRECTORY 
COUGHLIN. Maurice J.. A.B. 1926. I.L.B. '28 923 E. Tenth St, Eric, Pa. 

DALEY. Richard D.. Ph.B.Joum. 1917 c-o Erie Daily News. Erie, Pa. 
HEINLEIN, Joseph T.. B.S.E.E. 1929 4417 Cherry St., Erie, Fa. 
MEAD. Georsc J.. A.B. 1927 S07 \V. Ninth St.. Erie, Pa. 
MOOSEV, Joseph V.. A.B. 1930 G13 E. SLxth St., Erie, Pa. 
O'CONNOR. Earl T., os 1918. el 1925 6S3 E. Si--rth St, Erie, Pa. 
O'CONNOR. Gerard P.. A.B. 1929 929 W. Ninth St, Erie. Pa. 
STADLER, Lawrence R., Ph.B. Com. 1928 820 W. 24th St., Erie, Pa. 
WEIBEL. Elmer T.. B.S. 1929. M.S. 1931 215 •«•. Seventh St.. Ph.D. 1933 
WESCHLER, Robert P., Ph.B. Com. 1930 1146 Browns Ave., Erie, Pa. 
WITTMANN, Charles J.. Ph.B. Com, 1931 323 W. Eiiihth St.. Erie. Pa. 
ETNA JIEINERT, Dorothcus M., A.B. 1928 S5 Grand Ave., Etna, Pa. 
FHANKUN MURPHY, Thomas G., B.S. Ch.E. 1930 1198 Otter St. Franklin, Pa. 
FREEIAND CONLIN, Daniel B.. A.B. 1933 G04 Cedar St, Freeland, Pa. 
GALLAGHER, James B.. A.B. 1931 143 Pern St., Freeland, Pa. 
G.^LLAGHER. Peter J.. A.B. 1928 143 Fern St, Freeland, Pa. 
G.\LL1TZIN JONES. John P., A.B. 1931 406 Main St, Gallitzin, Pa. 

JIAXWELL. J. P.. A.B. I93I GOl Church St, Gallitein, Pa. 
GERMANTOWN WEBSTER. Joseph S., os 1901, el 1932 Greene Manor, Germantown, Pa. 
GLENSIDE STOLL, Carl F.. os 1922 Edca Distributors, Glenside, Pa. 
STOPPER, Anthony J.. C.E. 1906 2S0 Bickley Ave., Glenside, Pa. 

GRAMPION MOORE, Pearl L.. B.S. M.E. 1923 Grampion, Pa. 
GREENBURG CARR, Daniel J., B.S. Ph. 1921 Scton Hil! Collcee, Greensbarg, Pa, 
SLAIXE, Georse H., Ph.B. Com. 1921 312 Oakland Ave., Greensbure, Pa. 
SLAINE, Joseph B., Ph.B. P.C. 1924 312 Oakland Ave., Greensbure, Pa. 
GROVE CITY FLINT, Robert J., A.B. 1933 414 Bessemer St, Grove City, Pa. 
HARRISBUBG BRESLIN, Harry P., E.E. 1917 2544 N. Fifth St, Harrisburg, Pa. 
GOSS, Thomas L., Ph.B. F.C. 1925 25 N. Front St, Apt 2-k, Harrisbure, Pa. 

MC NEIL, John J., B.C.S. 1933 358 S. 13th St, Harrisburg, Pa. 
SOTTH, Edward C, S.E.E. 1901 2623 N. Second St., Harrisbure, Pa. 
HAZELTON CAltlPBELL, Hugh L., B.S. M.E. 1927 141 S. Wyomine St, Hazelton, Pa. 
KELLY, Thomas G., B.C.S. 1930 591 Alter St, Hazelton, Pa. 

LOUGHRAN, \Villiam C. A.B. 1929 Hotel Loushran, Hazelton, Pa. 
MC BRIDE, John J.. B.S.M.E. 1927 214 S. Pine St, Hazelton, Pa. 
HOMESTEAD BARDZIL, K. N., Ph.B. 1923 249 B. 14th Ave., Homestead, Pa. 
HAVICAN, Thomas A., LittB. 1911 224 E. 11th St. Homestead, Pa. 
STRICKEL, Robert T., Ph.B. Com. 1928 200 11th Ave., Homestead, Pa. 
HONESDALE DEMER, Robert J., A.B. 1934 404 Church St, Honcsdale, Pa. 
WENIGER, Frederick L.. B.S. 1933 925 Main St, Honesdale, Pa. 
INDIANA WILDEMAN, Quentin J., B.C.S. 1928 784 Maple St, Indiana, Pa. 
JOHNSTOWN BARRY, David. A.B. 1930 248 Main St, Johnstown, Pa. 
BARRY', John S., B.S.E.K 1932 248 Main St, Johnstown, Pa. 
CONWAY, William M.. B.S. 1934 211 Main St, Johstown, Pa. 
CORRELL, William A., C.E. 1894 336 Lincoln St, Johnstown, Pa. 

FREIDHOFF, William F.. B.C.S. 1932 426 Franklin St, Johnstown, Pa. 
LOPRESTI, Philip. LL.B. 1927 629 Ash St.. Johnstown, Pa. 
RAYJIOND, Eugene E.. os 1929. el 1931 S28 Franklin St., Johnstown, Pa. 
SLOAN, Robert V.. A.B. 1930 220 Tioga St, Johnstown, Pa. 

WILLIAMS, James L., Ph.B, Com. 1932 117 Lelila St, Johnstown, Pa. 
KiVNE GILLIS. Frank, Ph.C. 1922 111 Greeves St., K.ine, Pa. 
MC DADE, Wilson E., B.C.S. Com. 1927 11 Park Ave., Kane, Pa. 
KINGSTON REAGAN, Maurice J.. B.S. 1931 146 Slioernaker St. Kingston, Pa. 
WALLACE, Anthony W., B.C.S. 1933 115 Kosek St, Kingston, Pa. 
KITTANING CUSHMAN. John H.. B.C.S. 1929 131 Rebecca St, Kittaning, Pa. 
LANCASTER HARTMAN, Harold F.. A.B. 1930 21 W. James St., Lancaster, Paa. 
SEKINGER, Frank J., os. 1899 102 S. Ann St, Lancaster, Pa. 

LANSPORD MHLHEARN. Daniel A., B.C.S. 1925 L.insford. Pa. 
LATBOBE DOVEY, Mars C, A.B. 1926 1203 Ligonier St, Latrobe, Pa. 
KUHN, John R., A.B. Phys.Ed. 1932 415 Spring St, Latrobe, Pa. 

NOLAN, Daniel P., Ch.B. 1923. M.S. 1931 St. Vincent's College, Latrobe, Pa. 
LEECHBtTRG FAVERO, Bartholomew C., Ph.B. Com. 1927 211 Canal St., Leechburg, Pa. 
LEMONT FURNACE DOORLEY, Thomas L., A.B. 1933 Lemont Furnace, Pa. 
LUZERNE BURKE, Thomas J., A.B. 1932 23 Dennison St, Luzerne, Pa. 

LYNDORA BE>IBEN. Charles E., A.B. 1929 Lyndora, Fa. 
MEDIA CORDRAT. Richard E.. EJL 1923 6 Summit Road. Hediu. Pa. 
MC KEESPOKI BLACK, Raymond A., RE. 1922 1714 Sumach St, HcEeesport. Pa. 
SIYEBS, Edward H.. B.S. Phar. 1931 1600 Lincolnway, HcKeespott. Pa. 
SIYERS, Herbert G., B.C.S. 1933 1600 Lincoln Way, HcKeesport, Pa. 
MC SHERRYTOWN CARFAGNO. Thomas, os 1924, el 1930 Cannon Shoe Company, HcSherrytown, Pa. 
MERCER ELY, John W.. LL.B. 1911 116 Otter St, Mercer, Pa. 
MILTON KAUFFMAN, Nicholas J., B.C.S. 1927 Biiou Theatre, Milton. Pa. 
MONESSEN DUDAS, John A., A.B. 1929 472 McKec Ave., Monessen, Pa. 
MONONGAHELA WARD, Matthew P., B.S. 1930 77 E. Main St, Monongahela, Pa. 
MOUNT CARMEL SCHNEIDER. Vincent J.. LL.B. 1925 300 S. Hickory St, Mt Carmel, Pa. 
MOUNT PLEASANT CALETRI, Ralph J.. Ph.B. For. Com. 1932 201 S. Diamond, Mt Pleasant Pa. 
GALONE. Andrew N., Ph.B. Com. 1927 300 Diamond St., Mt Pleasant, Pa. 
MUNHALL HICKEY. John P., A.B. 1931 1104 Park Ave., Munhall. Pa. 
MC CACUE, John F., Ph.B. 1912 304 Twelfth Ave., Munhall, Pa. 
SPINELLI. C. J., Ph.B. Com. 1931 Guire St, Munhall, Pa. 
NEW BETHLEHEM FASENJrYER. Edward J., Ph.G. 1913 New Bethlehem, Pa. 
NEWCASTLE GREEN, Joseph A., B.C.S. 1924 222 East Boyles Ave., Newcastle, Pa. 
KENNEY, John E.. os 1919 c-o Union Brewing Co., 510-520 Sampson St, Newcastle, Pa. 
MAKER, John J., B.C.S. 1934 615 W. Washington St . Newcastle, Pa. 
NEW KENSINGTON CONBOY. Bernard W., A.B. 1930 1109 Kenneth Ave., New Kensington, Pa. 
NEW SALEM DEVLIN, James C, A.B. 1933 New Salem, Pa. 
NORRISTOWN SPAHR. Raymond J., B.S. 1930, Ph.D. 1933 200 Swede St, Norristown, Pa. 
NORTH EAST MC LAUGHUN. Thos. M.. A.B. 1933 65 S. Lake Drive, North East, Pa. 
OIL CITY BOUQUIN, Louis S., B.C.S. 1932 1049 W. Second, Oil City, Pa. , 
BOYLE, Edward E., os 1897, el. 1926 
P.O. Box 155, Oil City, Pa. . 

FLECKENSTEIN. Eugene M.. B.C.S. 1933 101 E. Third St, Oil City. Pa. 
GABRESKI. Thaddeos Stanley. B.S. 1934 SSVJ Spruce St, Oil City, Pa. 
MILLER. Duane M.. Ph.B. Com. 1930 211 W. Fifth, Oil City, Pa. 
MILLER. Mansel W., B.C.S. 1932 211 W. Fifth St., Oil City, Pa. 
MURRAY, Thomas J., A.B. 1933 338 Washinprton Ave, Oil City. Pa. 
REIDY, James M. Ph.B. Com. 1932 7 Reed St., Oil City, Pa. 
REIDY. Martin J.. Ph.B.Com. 1930 7 Reed St.. Oil City. Pa. 
SKELLY. Daniel J.. LL.B. 1914 213 Seneca St., Oil City, Pa. 
OLYPHAKT LAVIN, Edward F., A.B. 1930 802 S. Vallej- Ave.. Olyphant, Pa. 
OSCEOLA SHLLS KENNEY. John F.. A.B. 1933 207 Elizabeth St.. Osceola Mills. Pa. 
PALMERTON WILHELM. Ernest J.. B.S. Ch.E. 1927 M.S. 1928. Ph.D. 1930 Research Dept.. New Jersey Zinc Co.. Palmerton. Pa. 
STEELE, Frederick A.. B.S. 1923. M.S. 192G Palmerton, Pa. 
PHILADELPHIA BAADER, Ernest J.. Arch. E. 1913 
Ritter £ Shay, Packard Bide., 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
COONEY. WlHam E.. A.B. 1932 5725 McMahon Ave.. Philadelphia. Pa. 
CRANE, Elmer Michael. LL.B. 1934 3605 Powelton Ave., Philadelphia. Pa. 
DEGEN, Gerard T.. S.E.K 19ID 6734 N. 18th St. Philadelphia. Pa. 
DEGEN, Henry P.. OS. 1909. el. 1932 6734 N. 18th St.. Philadelphia. Pii. 
DELONE, Louis J., os 1902. el 1931 Perry Bldg.. Philadelphia, Pa. 
DESCH. AuKust G., Ph.B. Com. 1923 1421 No. Broad, Philadelphia, Pa. 
DONOHUE, Vincent J.. B.C.S. 1932 • 6400 Market St., Philadelphia. Pa. 
DOUGHERTY. Charles M., B.C.S. 1926 5301 Woodland Ave., Philadelphia, Fa. 
GALLAGHER, Edward P., LL.B. 1901 818 Lincoln Bldg.. Philadelphia. P.-u 
GIBBONS, Charles A., os 1929, el 1931 912 Pine St, Philadelphia. Pa. 
JAMES Clarence J., os 1915. el 1931 1727 Francis St.. Philadelphia. Pa. 
JOHNSOtf. Dr. William J., os 18S9, el I93I 3116 Diamond St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
KASPER. Dr. Kelvin A., os 1922. el 1931 135 S. 18th St.. Philadelphia. Pa. 
KELLY. John J.. B.C.S. 1926 310 Roxboroush Ave.. Philadelphia. Pa. 
KLEFEKER, Charles F.. B.C.S. 1930 Craydon Hall. 49th & Locust Sts.. Philadelphia, Pa. 
LAMMERS. Martin W.. B.S. 1919 701 Franklin TVust Bldg.. Philadelphia. Pa. 
MC ANULTY, John B., A.B. 1934 3436 Henry Ave, Philadelphia, Pa. 
MC NALLY, Raymond T., os. 1929, el 1931 2209 E. Cumberland St.. Philadelphia. Pa. 
MAGEE, Thomas J.. A.B., 1932 5801 Chew St.. Philadelphia. Pa. 
MINGEY. Edw. J.. Litt-B.. 1898. LL.B. 1898 505 Chestnut St.. Philadelphia, Pa. 
NEESON, John H., C.E. 1903 1103 City Hall Annex, Philadelphia, Pa. 
NEESON, John T., os 1884, el 1934 2218 Van Pelt St., Philadelphia. Pa. 
OBERST, Eucene W., B.C.S. For. Com. 1924 c-o E. K. Schulty Co., Manh.ittan Bids.. Philadelphia. Pa. 
PHILIPP, Walter F.. A.B. 1931 4461 Silvcrivood St.. Philadelphia. Pa. 
POZZI, Emanuele J.. B.S. 1933 511 Bambridge St. Philadelphia, Pa. 
PRODEHL, ClitTord E., Ph.B. For. Com. 1932 129 N. 63rd St, Philadelphia, Pa. 
REILLY, John A., B.S. 1926, M.S. 1927 4024 M. St, Philadelphia. Pa. 
RIDLEY, Walter R., B.S. Arch E. 1931 6824 N. ISth St. Philadelphia, Pa. 
PHOENIXVILLE BYBNTE, Thomas E.. B.C.S. 1934 "Wayside" Phoenixville. Pa. 
PITTSBURGH AKIN, William B.. LL.B. 18S8 Box 1214, Pittsburgh. Pa. 
ANDRES, William J.. E.E. 1918 5001 Centre Ave.. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
BACH, Joseph A.. B.S. Agric 1925 Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
BABR, John B.. Min.E. 1924 407 Keystone Bldg., Pittsburgh. Pa. 
BOYLE, Hugh C. A.B. 1924 1519 Henry W. Oliver Bldg.. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
BRESLIN, John J.. LL.B. 1911 5532 Forbes St.. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
BRILEY, John A.. Litt.B. 1923 946 Union Trust Bldg.. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
BURKE, James V.. A.B. 1933 6938 Edgerton Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
BURNS, Raymond J., os 1904, el 1927 5101 Baum Blvd, Pitteburgh. Pa. 
BYRNES, Edward G., A.B. 1925 122 Hastings St, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
CONROY, Thomas R.. Ph.B. For. Com. 1927 2800 Wellsley Ave.. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
COSGBO\'E, Edward A.. B.C.S. 1934 2927 Strachan Ave.. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
COYNE, Eugene J., A.B. 1933 236 McKee Place, Pittsburgh. P.-i. 
CRNKOnC. Rudolph C. A.B, 1934 820 R Ohio St. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
DASCHBACH, Albert F.. A.B. 1925 1740 Wrightman Street Pittsburgh. Pa. 
DEVLIN, James S., os 1910 7741 Forbes St. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
DIEBOLD. Alfred J.. Jr.. A.B. 1927 5821 Aylesboro Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
DODSON, James W.. A.B. 1930 G844 Thomas Blvd., Pittsburgh. Pa. 
DON'OHOE, John C. B.C.S. 1932 5930 Howe St . Pittsburgh. Pa. 
DONOHOE. Richard C. B.C.S. 1932 5930 Howe St, Pittsburgh. Pa. 
EICHENLAUB, V. J.. B.S. E.E. 1931 508 Berlin Road. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
FARRELL, Francis G., B.Arch. 1930 418 Denniston Ave, Pittsburgh, P.-1. 
FITCH, Edwin G.. A.B. 1932 355 Parlro-ay Drive. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
FLANAGAN, Christie C. A.B. 1928 Duquesne U., Pittsburgh. Pa. 
nrCH , George F., A.B. 1929 355 Parkway Drive, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
FOLLET, Louis H., S.Com. 1918 107 Haldane St, Pittsburgh. Pa. 
FULTON, Robert V., A.B. 1933 356 S. Negley Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
GINDER, William H.. Jr.. B.S. Chem.E. 1931 5534 Darlington Rd.. PitUburgh. Pa. 
GRAY, Paul E., A.B. 1933 
245 Parkway Dr., Mt Lebanon. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 
HAECKER. Walter J.. A.B. 1925 
C.OGoodrich Silvertown Inc., Roup St. and Baum Blvd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
HARTMAN, Paul A.. Min.E. 1925 238 Darragh St. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
HARTMAN, Robert J.. Ph.B. Com. 1932 238 Darragh St, Pittsburgh. Pa. 
HEGARTY, Dr. Francis A.. B.S. I92S 257 N. Craig St. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
HEYL, William J.. RE. 1911 1000 Sheridan Ave.. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
HOFFMANN, F. NordholT. LL.B. 1933 458 Melwood St, Pittsburgh. Pa. 
HUGHES, Thomas C. M.E. 1911 3526 Simen Ave.. N., S. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
JONES, Francis D.. M.E. 1917 1203 Chamber of Commerce Bldg. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
KAISER, Benedict J.. B.Arch. 1912 324 Fourth Ave.. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
KENNEDY, John J.. A.B. 1909 1409 Park Bldg.. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
KISSANE, John G.. B.S. 1931 5737 Fifth Ave.. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
LAVELLE, Regis I.. B.S. RE. 1927 332 Stratford Ave., Pittsburgh. Pa. 
MAGARALL, William J.. A.B. 1932 
• 914 N. Negley Ave.. Pittsburgh. Va. 
MARTIN, Charles W.. LL.B. 1927 204 S. Graham St. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
MARTIN, W. D.. A.B. 1933 204 S. Graham St.. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
MC BRIDE, Edmund L.. el. 1921 
York Hotel, E. Diamond Ave., 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 
MC BRIDE, Eugene R.. Ph. B. Journ. 1916 224 Melville Lane. Sewickley. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
MC GOWAN, James W.. A.B. 1925. M.A. -28 933 Wabash Bldg.. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
MC MAHON, John F.. A.B. 1928 Associated Press. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
MC SORLEY, Franklin. A.B. 1925 1912 Wightman St. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
MC SORLEY, John, Jr.. A.B. 1928 1912 Wightman St. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
MC VEY, William P.. os 1916. el 1926 4244 Saline St. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
O'BRIEN, Edward J.. A.B. 1934 5928 Bryant Ct.. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
O'CONNOR, Edward J.. R R 1919 416 Seventh Ave.. Pittsburgh, P.1. 
O'CONNOR, John J.. A.B. 1934 3426 Meadowcroft Ave., Pittsburgh. Pa. 
O'DONNELL, Dr. Leo D.. B.S. 1917 Mercy Hospital. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
O'DONNELL, Richard J.. A.B. 1931 5630 Margaretla St, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
O'ROURKE, Joseph V.. A.B. 1931 5148 Butler St, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
CTOOLE, Charles R,. C.R 1923 425 S. Aiken Ave.. Pittsburgh. P.-i. 
CTOOLE, James L., LL.B. 1921 Plaza Bldg., 706. Pittsburgh. P.-i. 
O'TOOLE, John J.. B.C.S. 1925 425 Aiken St, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
O'TOOLE, Richard R.. B.S. 1930 Mercy Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
O'TOOLE, William C. A.B. 1934 425 S. Aiken Ave., Pittsburgh. Pa. 
PAVUNAC, Dr. Jos. Henry. B.S. Biol. 1921 407 American Bfc. Bldg. 600 Grant S.t. At Sixth Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUJINI DIRECTORY 
REARDON, John B.. C.E 1322 5926 Walnut St.. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
RYAN, John J.. Ph.B. Com. 1926 1134 Chclton Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
SCHILL, George J., A.B. 1927 Motive Service Corp., 125 Fancourt, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
SCHNEIDER. Leo A.. Ph.B. Com. 1928 18 Emerson St.. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
SHEEDY, Charles B.. A.B. 1933 5540 Bryant St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
SHEEDY, John C, Ph.B. Com. 1928 1404 N. Negley St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
SHEEDY. Morgan F.. Ph.B. Com. 1922 5540 Bryant St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
SJIITH, Laurence R.. A.B. 1933 5826 Alder St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
STEITZ, William N., A.B. 1930 1526 Valmont St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
SWEENEY. Vincent, os. 1921 Pittsburgh Press. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
TOTTEN, Charles A., A.B. 1928 827 N. Highland Ave., Pittsburgh. Pa. 
TOTTEN. Raymond P.. A.B. 1930 827 N. Highland Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
VOGEL, Leo J., M.E. 1917 501 Columbia Bank BIdg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
WILSON, Francis J.. A.B. 1923 1217 Malvern Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
WILSON, Jerome J.. B.C.S. 19.12 1217 Malvern Ave., Pittsburgh. Pa. 
WITT, Quintin H.. B.S. C.E. 1928 835 Cheslett St.. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
PITTSTON FLANAGAN. Francis M., A.B. 192S 107 Butler St., Pittston, Pa. 
KINANE, John J» B.S. C.E. 1933 IS James St., Pittston, Pa. 
MC DONALD. Joseph P., B.S. E.E. 1932 188 Panama St., Pittston, Pa. 
ROWAN, George C, B.S. M.E. 192D 258 Butler St.. Pittston, Pa. 
PLAINSVILLE FARRELL. Hugh J.. B.S. 1934 R.F.D., Plainsville, Pa. 
FARRELL. Michael P.. A.B. 1927 . RD 1, Plainsville, Pa. 
PORT ALLEGANY JOHNSTON. Robert M., B.S. 1933 Arnold Ave.. Port Allegany, Pa. 
PUNXSUTAWNEY ZEEDICK, John G.. B.Arch. 1930 122 Cherry St., Punxsutawney, Pa. 
READING GROSS, George J.. LL.B. 1877 580 Franklin St., Reading, Pa. 
JONES, Cyril A., A.B. 1929 919 No. Front St., Re.iding, Pa. 
KREMP. Ferdinand A.. B.S. Agric. 1925 1242 Hill Rd., Reading. Pa. 
KREMP. Robert B.. B.S. Chcm. 1921 1242 Hill Rd., Reading, Pa. 
SPEIOEL, John G., os. 1914 245 W. Buttonwood St., Reading. Pa. 
RENOVO HAYES, Francis C. A.B. 1927 820 Erie Aye., Renovo, Pa. 

RIDGEWAY KLINGEL, Thomas F., B.C.S. Com. 192S 508 Sheridan St., Ridgcway, Pa. 
KODSEVILLE CAVANAUGH, Eugene L., B.C.S. 1933 Rouseville, Fa. 
ST. DAVID'S BAILEY, E. Bradley, os 1922, el 1931 56 St. David's Ave., St. David's, Pa. 
ST. MARY'S GREGORY. Thomas G., A.B. 1923 530 St. Mary's St., St. Marys, Pa. 
SAYRE BUSTIN, G. R.. Ph.B. Com. 1931 307 Chemung St., Sayre, Pa. 
SCOITDALE SOISSON. Joseph V.. B.S. E.E. 1026 West Penn Power Co., Scottdale, Pa. 
SCRAN TON BLEWETT. William R., A.B. 1927 2104 N. Washington Ave., Scranton, Pa. 
BURNS, William H., A.B. 1929 223 W. Market St., Scranton. Pa. 
DEVERS, Paul F.. os. 1917 424 Market St., Scranton, Pa. 
GOLDEN, Robert A., A.B. 1932 216 Colfax Ave., Scranton, Pa. 

JORDAN, James D., A.B. 1907 1612 Cnpouse Ave., Scranton. Pa. 
O'HORA, Joseph, os. 1931 1659 JefFerson Ave., Scranton. Pa. 

0'JIA.LLEY, Charles P.. A.B. 1930 1412 Linden St., Scranton, Pa. 
SHEAN, Edward L., A.B. 1931 312 Quincy Ave,, Scranton, Pa. 
SEWICKLEY AHLLER, Francis J.. A.B, 1929 628 Maple Ave., Sewicklcy, Pa. 

SK.\RPSVILLE BIGGINS, James A., B.S. 1931 526 Walnut St., Sharpsville, Pa. 
SHENANDOAH aUIGLEY, Joseph J., B.C.S. 1934 11/ S. ^^'hite St., Shenandoah, Pa. 
QUIGLEY, Thos. J., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1929 117 S. White St., Shenandoah, Va. 
SOMERSET UYAN, Paul J., LL.B. 1919 Ryan Grocery Co., Somerset, Pa. 
STATE COLLEGE 

WILLINGHANZ, Eugene A., B.S. 1924 Dept. ot Chemistry. M.S. 1925 State College, Pa. 
STRAFFORD RILEY, Clark E., os.'20 el. 1931 Straltord. Pa. 
STROUDSBURG SHULL, Christie D. J.. A.B. 1928 822 Main St., Stroudsburg, Pa. 

SUSQUEHANNA McMAHON, Thos. A., A.B. 1928 405 Erie Ave., Susquehanna, Pa. 
TAMAQUA COX, John B., A.B. 1932 414 Hazle St.. Tamanua, Pa. 
THROOP KOVACS, Charles J., LL.B. 1931 619 Sanderson St., Throop, Pa. 
KOVACS, John J.. B.S. 1926 619 Sanderson St., Throop, Pa. 
SCHWARTZ, Benj.,LL.B. 1930 649 Sanderson St., Throop. Pa. 
•nOGA KLISE, Arthur J.. Ph.B.Com. 1926 
C.O Kemrow Co., Tioga, Tioga County, Pa. 
TITUSVILLE DARDES, Earl J.. A.B. 1928 401 S. Drake St., Titusville. Pa. 
TOWANDA BURCHILL, Richard P., A.B. 1034 114 Fourth Ave., Towanda, Pa. 

COLMAN. John J , B.C.S. 1932 100 Ward Ave., Towanda, Pa. 
TROY McGEE. William J.. B.S. 1928 Tiroy, Pa. 
ULSTER McCUE. Francis H.. B.S.Phys.Bd. 1933 Ulster, Pa. 
VANDERGRIFT WIEDL. Michael F„ A.B. 1934 405 Franklin Ave., Vandergrift, Pa. 
VILLA NOVA STUHLDREHER. Harry A.. A.B. 1925 Director of Athletics, Villa Nova, Pa. 
WESLBYVILLE NORTON, Donald L., B.SJI.E. 1930 2202 Bird Dr., Wesleyville, Pa. 
WILKES BARRE BAAB, Charles J., os. 1891 90 Samboume Ave., Wilkes Barre. Pa. 
CAVAN. John F.. B.S. 1932 30 Wyoming St.. Wilkes Barre. Pa. 
GUNSTER, Edw. H.. S.M.E. 1909 338 N. Main St.. Wilkes Barre, Pa. 
LAW. Robert J.. A.B. 1932 li s Custer St., Wilkes Barre. Pa. 
LYONS. Gerald os. 1924 The Record, Wilkes Barre, Pa. 
RUSSO. Jr., Albert J., B.S. 1932 314 S. Main St., Parsons. Wilkes Barre, Pa. 
WILLIAMSPORT McGEE, James M., os. 1931 630 Grace St., Williamsport. Pa. 
McGEE. Joseph M.. A.B. 1927 630 Grace St., Williamsport, Pa. 
SOMERVILLE. Peter P., B.S.M.E. 1929 Elks Club, Williamsport, Pa. 
WINDBER LESKO. John George, A.B. 1934 909 Graham Ave., Windfcer, Pa. 
MURPHY, Francis A., A.B. 1933 900 Somerset Ave., Windber, Pa. 
MURPHY. Hugh J., B.C.S. 1934 900 Somerset Ave., "Windber, Pa. 
WYOMING MULHALL. Robt. A.. A.B. 1930 115 E. 8th St.. Wyoming. Pa. 
PERRY. G. v.. A.B. 1931 190 Wyoming Ave., Wyoming, Pa. 
YEAGERTOWN CLARK. John H., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1934 205 S. Main St., Yeagertown, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND 

CENTRAL FALLS BROWN. John J., B.S.Arch.E. 1931 85 Darling St., Central Falls. R. I, 
CUMBERLAND HILL McLAUGHUN, John J., A.B. 1934 Mendon Road. Cumberland Hill, R. I, 
EDGEWOOD FAGAN. John J.. B.S.M.E. 1928 164 Park Ave., Edgewood, R. I. 
NEWPORT BUCKLEY. Henry E.. A.B. 1933 41 Rhode Island Ave.. Newport, R. I. 
STEEL. Jr., J. B., Ph.B.Com. 1934 24 Green Lane. Newport, R.I. 
PAWTUCKET McALOON. Leo. os. 1927 260 Pawtucket Ave.. Pawtucket. K. I. 
McALOON, Vincent G.. A.B. 1934 252 Pa\vtucket Ave.. Pawtucket. R. I. 
MOREAU. Eugene J.. MJV. 1932 14 Lewis St.. Pawtucket. R. I. 
NORTOJf. Graham J.. BoyGuidJiI.A. 1933 56 Btoke St. Pavrtudtet, R. I. 
PROVIDENCE 

GATE, •William S.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1927 House No. 3. W. Exchange St., Providence, R. I. 
COSTELLO, Cyril A., M.A. 1929 44 Huxley Ave., Providence, R. X. 
GRIMES, Chas. A., Ph.B.Joum. 1920 Paramount BIdg., Providence, R. I. 
McKIERNAN, John F.. A.B. 1934 204 Lock^-ood Ave., Providence, R. I. 
ROURKE, John J.. A.B. 1924 59 Hilltop Ave.,Providencc, R. I. 
SOUTH DAKOTA 

ABERDEEN ERNST, Ray D., I.L.B. 1927 
R.R. 4, Aberdeen, So. Dakota 

EASPER, Thos. C Ph.B.C. 1921 
C.O Internal Revenue Collector Aberdeen, South Dakota 

ARTESIAN FOOTE, John O.. Ph.G. 1913 Artesian, South Dakota. 
BLKPOINT MURRAY, Leonard J.. Ph.B.C. 1924 Elkpoint, South Dakota 
EMERY RYAN, Chas. M., A.B. 1933 Emery, South Dakota 
FORT PIERRE FISCHER. Carl T.. Ph.B.Com. 1923 Fort Pierre, South Dakota 
LEAD GUSHURST, Albert P., Ph.B. 1909 Lead, South Dakota 
MINOT GILL, John P., Ph.B.Com. 1933, M.A. 1934 122 Ninth St., S. E.. Minot. South Dakota 
mXCHELL NA'tTN. Louis E., LittB. 1924 119% N. Main St., Mitchell. South Dakota 
PATTON. John M.. Ph.B.Com. 1927 422 W. 3rd. Ave., Mitchell. South Dakota 
WRIGHT, Edward A., B.C.S. 1932 700 E. Hanson St., Mitchell. South Dakota 
PIERRE 

KRALL, Jas. E., Ph.B.For.Com. 1929 State Auditor, Capitol BIdg., Pierre, South Dagkota 
ZOLPER, Harry W.. C.E. 1904 Pierre, South Dakota 
ROCKHAM DONAHUE, Terence C . A.B. 1928 Supt. of Schools, Rockham, South Dakota 
SALEM AHERN, John H.. Ph.G. 1909 Salem, South Dakota 
SIOUX FALLS 

CRAIG, Leo P., os. 1904 cl. 1931 Supreme Director, K, of C. 502 West 9th St., Siou.^ Falls. South Dakota 
FEYDER, Thco. N., LL.B. 1914 c-o Muller & Co.. Sioux Falls, So. Dakota 
FLEBnNG. Harvey, os. 1914 el. 192G 217 S. Phillips Ave., Sioux Falls, So. Dak. 
KUHLE. Jr., Henry, Ph.B. 1911, LL.B. 1913 611 N. Duluth, Sioux Falls. South Dakota 
KUHLE, Otto T.. Ph.G. 1917. Ph.C. 1917 410 W. 16th SU, Sioux Falls, So. Dakota 
MULLEN. Richard AV., B.C.S. 1934 123 S. Prairie Ave, Siou.v Falls, So. Dakota 
SPEARFISH FRAWLEY, Henry J™ Ph.B. 1914 Speariish. South Dakota 
WATERTOWN FOLEY, Andrew R . LL.B. 1910 Watertown, South Dakota 
•mNNER LANNAN. Dennis E., B.S.BioI. 1907 Winner, South Dakota 
YANKTON TREIWTEILER, Francis J.. Ph.B.For.Com. '32. 
e.K) State Highway Commission Yanlcton, South Dakota 
TENNESSEE 

CHATTANOOGA READ. Lee A., el. 1926 Ross-Meehan Foundries, Chattanooga, Tenn. 
CLARKS^^LLE TRAUGHBER, John T.. LL.B. 1930 719 Commerce, Clarksville. Tenn. 
MEMPHIS BAUER, Frederick J., Ph.B.Com. 1932 2929 Iroquois Rd., Memphis. Tenn. 
BILLINGSLEY. George A., os. 1912 el. "27 Bannon Coal & Ice Co., Memphis Tenn. 
BRYAN, Charles M., Litt.B. 1S97 1640 Pcabody Ave., Memphis. Tenn. 
DOHOGNE, T. F., B.S.RE. 1927 77S Hollywood, Memphis, Tenn. 
DONNELLY. Henry C. B.S.M.E. 1934 405 N. Willett St., Memphis. Tenn. 
FBANSIOLI. Vincent G., B.S.M.E. 1934 21S N. McLean Blvd., Memphis. Tenn. 
FRANSIOLI. Walter J., B.S.M.E. 1934 21S N. McLean Blvd., Memphis. Tenn. 
HUDSON. Galvin G., S.E.E. 1915 Box No. 253, Memphis, Tenn. 
JUGEVNEY. Hugh M., A.B. 1925 17S7 Union Ave., Memphis. Tenn. 
McCORSlACK. Michael J.. LL.B. 1S99 196 E. Parkway So., Memphis, Tenn. 
RUSH, Paul, OS. 1908-1911 Rush Lumber Co.. Memphis, Tenn. 
SAXON, David W., A.B. 1929 1379 Peabody Ave., Memphis, Tenn. 
WRAPE,. Jas. W.. LL.B. 1925 2012 Sterick BIdg., Memphis. Tenn. 
NASHVILLE CLAIBORNE, Harry, os 1919. el. 1927 1720 West End Ave.. Nashville, Tenn. 
HANNON, Emmet D.. M.K 1917 
P.O. Box 531. Nashville. Tenn. 

JONES, Wm. K., Ph.B.Com. 1930 106 33rd Ave., No., Nashville, Tenn. 
STRITCH. Jr.. T. J.. A.B. 1934 1S14 Hayes St, Nashville, Tenn. 
WENNING, Nicholas A., B.C.S. 1927 629 Church St., Nashville, Tenn. 
WILLIAMS, Jr., Robert P., Ph.B.Com. 1920 106 Gallatin Road, Nashville, Tenn. 
MONNING, Norbert G.. B.Arch. 1918 
T. V. A. Bunk House, Norris, Tenn. 
TEXAS 

AMARILLO BARLOW, Walter A., B.S.C.E. 1931 1716 Jackson St., Amarillo, Texas 
FUNK, G. Raby, B.Arch. 1925 Johnson BIdg., Amarillo, Texas 
GORDON, Charles B., A.B. 1931 1028 Bowie St, Amarillo, Texas 
AUSTIN CHEVIGNY, John E., LL.B. 1931 Texas Univ., Austin, Texas 
McCUSKER, Patrick, M.S. 1930 S t Edward's Univ., Austin Texas 
O'BRIEN. John J.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1931 S t Edward's Univ.. Austin Texas 
BEGAN, Daniel J., Ph.B.Com. 1923 1340 W. 6th St. Austin, Texas 
SCBREINER. Anthonj" R.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 S t Edward's Univ., Austin, Texas 
WATERSON, Tass D., A.B. 1927 1204 W. 10th St, Austin, Texas 
BEAUMONT BARRY, Heniy P., LL.B. 1901 233 7th St, Beaumont. Tex,is 
BOYKIN, Burl J., B.SJtf.E. 1930 2020 Broadway, Beaumont, Texas 
BKOUSSARD, Clyde E., M.E. 1913 Beaumont Rice Mills, Beaumont, Texas 
BROUSSARD, Joseph E., B.C.S. 1926 1614 College St . Beaumont, Texas 
DUPERIER, Alfred J., LL.B. 1900 2127 Broadway, Beaumont, Texas 
HEBERT. Jos. J.. B.C.S. 1928 1112 Goodhue BIdg.. Beaumont. Texas 
HCGHEN. Thos. A.. A.B. 1933 2310 Harrison, Beaumont. Tc.\as 
LE BLANC, Erwin J., LL.B. 1929 1625 Franklin St, Beaumont, Texas 
MKSON, Leo J., M.E. 1923 1310 Ave. D, Beaumont, Texas 
BROWNSVILLE KLEIBER, John L, A.B. 1887. A.1L 1889 817 Elizabeth St, Brownsville, Texas 
CONROE GREEN. Jr., Thos. F., Ph.B.For.Com. 1927 Conroe, "Texas 
CORPUS CHRISTI ODEM, Bryan S.. LL.B. 1917 Corpus Christi, Texas 
ONZON. Frank J.. LL.B. 1895 Rm. 7, C. C. Nat'l Bank BIdg. Corpus Christi, Texas 
DALLAS BUELL, D. P., LittB. 1924 3629 Beverly Drive, Dallas, Texas 
DcLORENZI. Albert, B.S.Phar. 1925 3009 Live Oak, Dallas, Texas 
FREITAS. Leo J., B.S.M.E. 1932 Fcdders Mfg. Co., 209 S. Pearl St, Dallas 
GRADY, Wm. A., os. 1915 4811 Montrose St, Dallas, Texas 
SCHMUCKER. Walter J., os. 1920, el. 1926 3301 Bryan Ave., Dallas, Texas 
SIMMONS, James W., B.C.S. 1932 3601 Beverly Drive, Dallas. Texas 
SIMPSON. Arthur T., os. 1897, cl. 1926 208 Southwestern Life BIdg., Dallas Texas 
SWIFT. James P.. LL.B.. 1924 1202 Southwestern Life BIdg., Dallas, Texas 
WALSH. Jas. L., A.B. 1930 522 E. 9th St, Dallas, Texas 
EASTLAND BRELSFORD, Homer P.. A.B. 1891. A.M. 1895 200 N. Daugherty St, Eastland, Texas 
EL PASO ANLEITNER. Harry J., os. 1920, el. 192S S t Joseph's Sanatorium, El Paso, Texas 
BANES, Leo J., B.C.S.For.Com. 1933 1031 Arizona St, El Paso, Texas 
DUNNE, Joseph M., A.B. 1931 310 E. 15th St, El Paso. Texas 
KOONS, James E.. A.B. 1932 1332 Myrtle Ave, El Paso. Texas 
MOMSEN. Leo J.. Ph.B.Com. 1921 1501 MagnoHin Ave, El Paso, Texas 
MOMSEN, Reuben F., Ph.B.C. "25. J.D. 1928 1501 Magnoffin Ave, El Paso, Texas 
SMITH, Lionel V.. B.C.S. 1933 604 Cincinnati St, El Paso, Texas 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI DIRECTORY 
FORT WORTH COOPER. Chas. J.. Ph.BJ.C. 1924 2127 Primrose St. Fort Worth, Texas 
RECORD, James, os. 1901 Ft. Worth Star Telegram, Ft. Worth, Te.xas 
GALVESTON STUBBS. Chas. J., A.B. 18S8, LL.B. 188S 212 22nd St., Galveston, Texas 
HILLSBOKO BERNING. Wm. B., B.C.S.For.Com. 1932 120 CraiE, Hillsboro, Texas 
HOUSTON BURKITT. Jr., George W., A.B. 1902 
P. O. Box 652, Houston, Te-x. 

HERZOG. Julius T., M.E. 1923 c-o Southern Pacific Oitice, Houston, Texas 
KEHOE, Samuel E. B.S.E.E. 1927 2425 Calumet Dr., Houston, Texas 
MURRIN. George P.. LL.B. 192S c-o King, Wood & Morrow, Houston. Texas 
NEWNING, S. D., Ph.B. 1914 701 W. Alabama, Houston, Texas 
NOWERY, John E., A.B. 1930 1702 N. Boulevard, Houston, Texas 
POWERS, J. Nat., LL.B. 1924 2202 Arbor Ave., Houston, Texas 
SCHILLO. Fredcriclc J., B.S. 1S94 Southern Pacific Bldg., Houston, Texas 
WAGESIAN, Patrick H., Ph.B.Com. 1923 2800 Fannin St., Houston, Texas 
WALTER. Martin E., Ph.B. 1914. A.M. 1915. LUB. 191S 1702 Stuart Ave., Houston, Texas 
LAREDO CULLINAN, M. P., -\.B. 1927 1420 Chihuahua, Laredo, Texas 
DERBY. Chas. Y., B.C.S. For.Com. 1930 1020 Salinas Ave., Laredo, Texas 
GONZALEZ. Arthur, C.E. 1925 
P. O. Box 154, Laredo, Texas 

LOLITA MITCHELL, Chas. S., C.E. 1894 Lolita, Texas 
ZtnTCHELL, Sr., Isaac N., os. 1S93, el. 1915 Lolita, Texas 
LUBBOCK ROBERTS, Jr., Harry N., C.E. 1906 Box 1115, Lubbock, Texas 
PARIS FITZPATRICK. Dr. Wm. W., B.S.Biol. 1S9S City Nafl Bank Bldg., Paris, Texas 
PORT ARTHUR 

BRAUN, Richard T., Ch.E. 1914 Southern Acid & Sulphur Co., Port Arthur, Texas 
HANNON, Leo. J., M.E. 1909 3024 5th St., Port Arthur, Texas 
SCHULZ. Herbert. A.B. 1923 3212 Proctor St., Port Arthur, Tc.vas 
PRESIDIO GLEIM. August F.. os. 1911, el. 192S Presidio, Texas 
QUANAH KEYS. Arthur A., E.E. 1912 Quanah, Texas 
SAN ANTONIO BARBECK. Chester A., B.S.M.E. 1933 116 Burr Rd., San Antonio, Texas 
BITTER. Jr.. John A., A.B. 1930 1710 N. Brannfels, San Antonio, Te-cas 

CARLIN. Eugene J., A.B. 1929 221 Burr Rd., San Antonio, Texas 
CONROY, Edward G., B.S.E.B. 1930 234 E. Craig PI., San Antonio, Texas 
DIELIklANN, Jr., Wm. V., A.B. 1925 107 Thelma Drive, San Antonio, Texas DULIN. Edwin R, B.S.E.E. 1934 
R. F. D. No. 7, San Antonio, Texas 

FAUST. Fred J. Pb.B.For.Com. 1929 406 E. Evergreen, San Antonio, Texas 
FITZSIMON. Robert T., B.S.Ch.E. 1934 127 B. Buenthor St., San Antonio, Texas 
GASTREICH. Jos. H., B.C.S. 1929 803 Magnolia, San .Antonio, Texa^ 
GRAVES, Everett G.. B.S. 1876 206 Casino Club Bldg., San Antonio, Texas 
HAGERTY. Clement D., LL.B. 1922 1913 Alamo Nat'l Bldg., San Antonio, Tex. 
HESS, Leonard M.. Ph.B.C. 1925 228 W. Huisache Ave.. San Antonio, Texas 
HOLDEN, J. E.. OS. 1921 1602 W. Mistletoe. San Antonio, Texas 
JIENGER, Jos. A., A.B. 1925 107 Catherine Court, San Antonio. Texas 
NEEDHAM, Michael A., A.B. 1925 429 San Pedro, San Antonio, Texas 
TYNAN, Harold A., B.S.E.E. 1927 240 E. Huisache, San Antonio. Texas 
WILLIAMS, Kirwln J.. B.C.S. 1928 ol9 W. Gramercy, San Antonio, Texas 
SAN BENITA PRICHARD, Frederick C, el. 1912 San Benita, Texas 
SHERMAN McCHLLOUGH, Felix, M.E. 1923 Sherman, Texas 
SINTON ODEM, Jas. F., LL.B. 1916 Sinton, Texas 
SMITHVILLE BYRNE, Roger H.. S.E.E. 1915 Box 454. Smithvllle, Texas 
PSENCIK. Louis F.. B.C.S. 1932 Smithvllle, Texas 
TAYLOR BRIEGER. Earl W., B.S.E.E. 1931 311 Davis, Taylor, Texas 
TERRELL HOLTON, James B., Ph.B. 1922 Texas Military College, Terrell, Texas 
TEXARKANA ENRIGHT, Paul M.. B.S.C.E. 1931 2623 Hazel, Texarkana, Texas 
TYLER OUINN, Julian W., B.S.E.E. 1934 421 W. Ferguson St.. Tyler, Texas 
SALEH, Albert E., B.S.E.E. 1934 322 W. First St., Tyler, Texas 
WAXAHACHIE NAUGHTON, Jr., Edw. M.. JI.E. 1923 604 Water St.. Waxahachie. Texas 
UTAH 

PAYSON BEESLEY, Walter V., A.B. 1931 Huish Theatre Enterprises, Payson, Utah 
SALT LAKE CITY BRADY. Raymond R., LL.B. 1924 206 Kearns Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah 
CAPITOLO, John C. B.C.S. 1934 143 S. Eighth St., Salt Lake City, Utah 
FLYNN, Wm. G., A.B. 1933 United Press, Tribune Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah 
VERMONT 

BARRE TOSIASI. Francis C, A.B.Phys.Ed. 1932 12 Merchant St., Barre. Vt. 
BELLOWS FALLS REYNOLDS. Edward J.. B.S. 1918, Ph.G. 1918 102 Atkinson St., Bellows Falls, Vt. 
BURLINGTON FAYETTE, Frederick J., B.C.S. 1933 81 Maple St. Burlington, Vt. ^ 
raHGUY, Arthur, A.B. 1928 225 Maple St., Burlington, Vt. 
SnTIGUY, John F., A.B. 1929 72 Hungerford St, Burlington, Vt. 
ESSE.K JUNCTION JOHNSON. Claude E., B.SJVrch. 1926 Essex Junction, V t 
MILTON RYAN. Paul W., A.B. 1927 Milton, V t 
PROCTOR LISTZWAN. Thos.. B.S.Arch.E. 1930 2 Willow St, Proctor, V t 
RUTLAND CANNON. Francis R, A.B. 1927 94 Forest St, Rutland, V t 
FOLEY, John A., B.S. 1927 116 River St, Rutland, V t 
FOLEY. Jos. M., OS. 1930, el. 1932 116 River St, Rutland, Vt 
MCCLELLAND, R G., LL.B. 1931 42 Morsee PL, Rutland, Vt. 
VIRGINIA 

LEXINGTON FLETCHER. Forrest, os. 1912, el 191S Washington & Lee Univ. Lexington, Va. 
RICHMOND DAPFRON, Thos. A.. B.C.S. 1930 1426 Porter St, Richmond, Va. 
ROANOKE COX, Ellsworth A., Ph.B.F.Com. 1932 827 Windsor Ave, Roanoke, Va. 
MILLER. Anselm D.. Ph.B.Com. 1925 1232 Maple Ave.. S. W., Roanoke, Va. 
SALEM 

KOSKY. Francis X., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1931 Graduate Manager of Athletics, Roanoke, College, Salem, Va. 
WASHINGTON 
ABERDEEN 

McCRIMMON, Edw. L., Ph.B.For.Com. 1930 302 E. 4th St, Aberdeen, Wash. 
BEX. Earle C, B.S.RE. 1927 407 W. 6th St, Aberdeen, Wash. 
BELLINGHAM ROEHL. Henry J., Ph.B.Com. 1931 2430 Cornwall Ave., Bellingham, Wash. 
CENTRALIA CAMERON. Wm. H., LL.B. 1902 304 W. Plum St, Centralia, Wash. 
ELLENSBURG WEBSTER. William G., A.B. 1932 607 E. 2nd St, Ellensburg. Wash. 
PORT TOWNSEND STARRETT, K Morris, os. 1921, el. 1923 801 Washington St, Port Townsend, Wash. 
RAYMOND O'PHELAN. John L. LL.B. 1904 Raymond, Wash. 
SEATTLE COCHRANE. Edward L., Litt.B. 1922 822 North Life Toner, Seattle, Wash. 
CUMMINGS. Leo. Jas., A.B. 1933 418 30th Ave. South, Seattle, Wash. 
DUFFY, Philip H.. A.B. 1931 1305 R 43rd St, Seattle, Wash. . 
FLANNERY, P. E.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 Republic Creosotinc Co., Seattle, Wash. 
HENEY, Patrick A., A.B. 1927 1618 E. Aloha St., Seattle, Wash. 
HENNES, Bobert G., B.S.C.E. 1927 Wilsonian Apt. University Way at 47th, Seattle. Wash. 
HORRIGAX, Joseph E , B.C.S. 1934 1100 17th Ave., Seattle, Wash. 
LENIHAK; Emmett G., Ph. B. 1913 County City Bldg.. Seattle. Wash. 
McCONNELL, Andrew H.. Ph.G. 1916 905 B. Union, Seattle. Wash. 
MEADE, Richard Eugene. A.B. 1933 3321 Cascadia Ave. Seattle. Wash. 
MEADE, Thomas E., A.B. 1932 1423 E. Valley St., Seattle, Wash. 
NYEBE, George L.. LL.B.. 1904 815 Seventh Ave., So., Seattle, Wash. 
O'FLYKN, Edw. F.. Ph.B. 1907 812 Insurance Bldg.. Seattle. Wash. 
PHELAN, James, os. 1917. el. 1923 Univ. of Washington, Seattle, Wash. 
PIGOTT, Robert I., B.C.S. 1932 925 12th Ave., N., Seattle, Wash. 
SHANNON, Clarence W.. os. 1902, el. 1932 813 4th and Pike St. Bldg., Seattle, Wash. 
SINNOTT, Jos. D., E.E. 1908 1932 E. Lynn St., Seattle, Wash. 
TIERNEY. Wm. H.. A.B. 1901 1320 Queen Anne Ave., Apt. 1, Seattle, Wash. 
WALKER, Samuel A.. A.B. 1693 1220 Western Ave., Seattle. Wash. 
SPOKANE LALLY, Tlios. A. E.. Ph.B. 1906 811-13 Paulsen Bldg.. Spokane. Wash. 
LENOUE, Bernard J„ A.B. 1931. JLA. 1933 424 E. Sinto Ave., Spokane, Wash. 
ROBERTS, Daniel C , os. 1919, el. 1935 1923 W. 1st Ave., Spokane, Wash. 
TACOM.\ CARTIER, George, el. 1914 809 N. C St., Tacoma, Wash. 
DEMPSEY', John J., C.E. 189S Dempsey Lumber Co., Tacoma, Wash. 
MANLEY, Jo.=eph H., Ph.B.Com. 1930 414 North L, Tacoma, Wash. 
VON BOECKLIN, August R. Ph.B.Com. 1934 74 East Road. Tacoma, Wash. 
WENATCHEE GROSECLOSE. Byril K., A.B. 1927 c-o Fruit Growers Serv.. Wenatchee. Wash, 
McHANUS, Henry H.. B.S.Ch.E. 1934 415 N. Douglas St., Wenatchee. Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA 

BER\VIND CAPESIUS, Robert P., A.B. 1928 Berwind. W. Va. 
CHARLESTON EDWARDS, Eugene H.. A.B. 1927 State Treasurer's Office. Charleston. W. Va. 
HUDSON, Hon. Arthur P.. LittB. 1895 Judge of Circuit Court. Charleston, W. Va. 
KENNEY, William J.. B.S.Phar. 1934 714 State Street Charleston. W. Va. 
TOUSSAINT. Walter J„ B.S. 1928 M.S. 1929 616 Virrfnia St. W.. Charleston, W. Va. 
VEAZEY. Oscar E.. S.M.E. 1909 1500 Piedmont Rd.. Charleston. W. Va. 
CLARKSBURG BRADLEY, Guy. H.. B.S.C.E. 1927 460 Lee Ave., Clarksburg. W. Va. 
BRASSEUB, Albert J.. B.C.S. 1932 223 Maple Ave., Clarksburg. W. Va. 
GAUGHAN, John H.. B.S.C.E. 1928 294 S. Fifth St., Clarksburg. W. Va. 
HEITZ, Bernard T.. B.C.S. 1932 526 S. 7th St. Clarksburg, W. Va. 
ELKINS CAIN, John A., LL.B. 1928 Park St. Elkins. W. Va. 
FAIRMONT PAKRISH. Richard B, A.B. 1928 5 Rhea Terrace, Fairmont, W. Va. 
GRAFTON HODEL. Leo. W.. LL.B. 1933 111 East Main. Grafton. W. Va. 
HINTON HOGAN. Jas. E.. C.E. 1916 210 Ballingce St. Hinton, W. Va. 
MORGANTOWN CORAM. James M.. B.S.Phar. 1931 Nemnan Hall. Mor^rantow-n. W. Vn. 
NEW MARTINSVILLE SRIBEN. Paul J.. A.B. 1926 New Martinsville. W. Va. 
PARKERSBURG HASSETT, Prank, el. 1929 1335 Avery. Parkersburg. W. Va. 
McNAMEE, John L., A.B. J925 817 •William St, Parkersburg, W. Va. 
McQUAIN, James M.. A.B. 1926 936 Murdock Ave.. Parkersburg. W. Va. 
ST. MARY'S DAVIS, Henry P., B.C.S. 1928 S t Mary's, W. Va. 
SISTERVILLE DA\nS. Wm. A.. A.B. 1931 Wells Hotel. Sistenille. W. V.-u 
WESTON BENNETT, Hunter M.. LittB. 1897 Weston, W. Va. 
SLEIGH. Andrew P., B.C.S. 1927 120 1st St, Weston. W. Va. 
^VHEEL1NG ACKEUilANN. Wm. E.. B.S. 1933 Chantal Court W.. AVhecling. W. Va. 
BELTZ, James B.. A. B. 1933 423 S. Broadway Ave.. Wheeling, W. Va. 
DUSCH. William M.. B.FJV. 1934 166 Kruger St. Wheeling W. Va. 
HOFFSMN, R P.. os. 1913. el. 1930 24 Main St. ^\'heelinB. W. Va. 
HOGAN, William N.. E.E. 1913 Laurel Ave.. Lenox. Wheeling. W. Va. 
MILLAR, John H.. B.S.C.E. 1930 Park View. Wheeling. W. Va. 
JHTSCH, Wm. H.. B.S.RE. 1933 Betham Pike. Woodsdale. \yheclinK. W. Va. 
RICKUS. R. B.. B.C.S. 1934 111 Edgewood St. Wheeling. W. Va. 
"nascoNsiN 

ADAMS EATON, Frank C, B.S.Phys.Ed. 1930 Adams. Wis. 
ANTIGO FLATLEY, William J., A.B. 1934 119 Fifth Ave., Antigo. Wis. 
McDOUGAL, Thos. E., LL.B. 1930 SOS Lincoln. Antigo. Wis. 
APPLETON DOHR, Raymond P.. LL.B, 1924 415 Slate St. Appleton, Wis. 
KRAUS, Jas. J.. B.S.M.E. 1933 201 N. Story St. Appleton. Wis. 
ASHLAND HARRISON. George W„ B.S. 1933 121 E. Front St. Ashland, Wis. 
. .BARABOO McGUAN. Andrew P.. Ph.B.P.Com. 1932 526 First St. Baraboo. Wis. 
McMahon. Bernard P.. B.C.S. 1933 742 Water St . Baraboo. Wis. 
POWER, Jas. W.. B.C.S. 1933 406 Fourth St , Baraboo, Wis. 
TERRY. Walter E., Ph.B.Com. 1932 210 8th Ave.. Baraboo. Wis. 
BASCO HENRV, Vincent J., B.C.S. 1928 Basco. Wis. 
B'EAVER DAM DENIGER. Reynold A.. B.C.S. 1929 117 Grove St. Beaver Dam. Wis. 
GLOUDEMANS. R. J.. B. C.S. 1931 c-o Hotel Rogers, Beaver Dam, Wis. 
BELOIT ROSENTHAL, Jos. D.. M.B. 1920 716 Park Ave., Beloit. Wis. 
BENTON KEARNS, Jas. R., Ph.B.Com. 1928 Benton, Wis. 
KEARNS, Thos. C. B.C.S. 1933 Benton. Wis. 
BERLIN CEYAK. Wallace. Ph.B.Com. 1926 418 Huron St.. Berlin. Wis. 
BURLINGTON KENNEY. Thos. D.. Ph. B.C. 1925 391 Wilmot Ave. Burlington. Wis. 
CHILTON FOX. Francis J.. B.S. 1924 121 N. State St. Chilton. Wis. 
COLUMBUS SCHMIED. Charles P.. B.S.M.E. 1932 SOS Ludington St. Columbus. Wis, 
DELAVAN MORRISSEY. R. J„ B.S.Phys.Ed. 1934 68 Walworth Ave., Defavan, Wis. 
DODGEVILLE HAMILTON, Francis D.. A.B. 1930 Dodgeville. Wis. 
EAST TROY MULANEY', C. W.. Ph.G. 1926 East Troy, 'Wis. 
EAU CLAIRE FLEMING, Edmond G., A.B. 1927 1407 State St. Eau Claire. Wis. 
KELLEY. John J.. B.S.Ch.E. 1933 1215 S. River St, Eau Claire, Wis. 
STANTON, Edward W.. B.S.Ch.E. 1933 1013 0.vford Ave.. Eau Claire, Wis. 
ELKHORN JAHR . Charles A., A.B. 1934 312 N. Broad St, Elkhom, Wis. 
VOSS, Donald G.. LL.B., 1930 123 S. Washington St. Elkhorn. Wis. 
VOSS. John D.. A.B. 1930., LL.B. 1932 123 S. Washington St. Elkhorn. Wis. 
FENNIMORE FRANTZ, Geo. P.. LL.B. 1917 Fennimore. Wis. 
FOND DU LAC FOREK. Jr.. Jas. S.. Ph.B.Com. 1922 294 R 2nd St. Fond du Lac. Wis. 
GAFFIN. Jr.. Wm. W.. B.S.C.R 1927 270 Sheboygan, Fond du Lac, Wis. 
HANSON. John H., BJVrch. 1931 281 8th St. Fond du Lac. Wis. 
LUEDTKE. Walter H., B.S.RR 1930 279 Starr St, Fond du Lac, Wis. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI DIRECTORY 
McAIOXAGLE. Vincent J.. B.C.S. 1933 "6 N. Sibley St.. Pond liu Lac. Wis. 
GREEN BAY ARVEY. Edmond J.. LL.B. 1909 50-f S. Van Buren St. Green Baj-. Wis. 
CHRISTJIAN, Norbert J., A.B. 1932. 1100 Cherry St. I.L.B. 1933 Green Bay. Wis. 
DIENEB. John V.. I.I,.B. 1909 704 Cass St.. Green Bay. Wis. 
ENGELS. Jas. E.. A.B. 1933 324 S. Van Buren St.. Green Bay, Wis. 
FARRELL. James P., B.Arch. 1933 SOI X. Maple Ave.. Green Bay, Wis. 
GENIESSE, Levi A.. Arch.E. 1924 720 S. Clay St., Green Bay, Wis. 
KREUZ, Peter P., B.C.S. 1933 425 Doty St., Green Bay. Wis. 
LOXDO. Harold L.. C. E. 1924 509 S. Clay St., Green Bay, Wis. 
LYNCH. Robert E., A.B. 1903 1144 Cass St., Green Ba>-, Wis. 
MARTIN. Jerome P., LL.B. 1923 411 Lowe St., Green Bay, Wis. 
MARTIN. Jos. L., os. 1915, el. 1926 405 Lowe St., Green Bay, Wis. 
SNELL, Robt. E.. A.B. 1927 1010 Cheery St.. Green Bay, Wis. 
HIGHLAND STEPPLER. Jos. P., Ph.G. 1912 Highland. Wis. 
HORICON EHB. Ralph J., A.B. 1933 507 E. Walnut St., Horicon. Wis. 
JANESVILLE CULLEN. Mark A., os. 1915. el. 1926 1209 Racine, Janesville, Wis. 
HEMMING, Jr., John G., B.S. 1934 703 Fourth Ave., Janesi-ille, Wis. 
McCLUSKEY, Daniel W., LL.B. 1927 432 N. Blult St., Janesville, Wis. 
McCUE. Donald W.. B.C.S. 1933 315 Locust St.. Janesville, Wis. 
.MURPHY, Edward Michael, 177 S. High St. •* Ph.B.For.Com. 1934 Janesville, Wis. 
TOBIN. John E., A.B. 1934 42; RinKold St., Janesville, Wis. 
WAUFLE, Donald G., B.S. 1933 25 N. East St., Janesville, Wis. 
WILBUR, Wm. P.. B.S.C.E. 1929 121 S. .Academy, Janesville, Wis. 
ELLIS, Melvin R., A.B. 1933 171 N. Main St., Juneau. Wis. 
KENOSHA SHANNON. John E.. Ph.B.ror.Cora. 1928 7318 26th Ave,. Kenosha. Wis. 
GAFFNEY, Jos. M., os. 1902, el. 1926 6119 11th Ave., Kenosha, Wis. 
HARRINGTON. John T.. A.B. 1930, LL.B.1932 4715 7th Ave.. Kenosha, Wis. 
JASKWHICH, Chas. J., B.C.S. 1933 6517 17th St., Kenosha, Wis. 
LENCIONI, D. C, A.B. 1931, LL.B. 1933 2304 Roosevelt Rd., Kenosha. Wis. 
McCARBON. Earl P.. A.B. 1925 678 Park Ave., Kenosha, Wis. 
McCABRON, Ward W., LL.B. 1925 678 Park Ave,, Kenosha, Wis. 
POREDEN. Georce T.. B.S.Ch.E. 1933 1702 59th St., Kenosha. Wis. 
STANHOPE. Chas. R.. B.C.S. 1925 416 6Sth St.. Kenosha. Wis. 
SULLIVAN, E. T., A.B. 1934 2109 60th St.. Kenosha. Wis. 
SULLIVAN. Richard T.. B.C.S. 19.32 1020 62nd St., Kenosha. Wis. 
LACROSSE BARTL, Robert F., Ph.B.Com. 1927 1515 State St., LaCrosse, Wis. 
DOCKENDORFP. Jos. A.. B.S.Areh.E. 1933 502 S. 14th St., LaCrosse, Wis. 
ELLIOTT, John A.. Ph.B.C. 1925 300 West Ave.. S., LaCrosse, Wis. 
FUNK. Arthur S., B.S. 1906 1407 Main St.. LaCrosse. Wis. 
GRAMS. August M., B.C.S. 1928 1003 King St., LaCrosse, Wis. 
GRAMS, John A., B.C.S.. 1933 1429 Main St., LaCrosse. Wis. 
HYDE. Samuel Y., A.B. 1933 1136 Kinff St., LaCros.«e. Wis. 
MURPHY. Donald P.. B.C.S. 1931 1532 Madison St., LaCros.<e. Wis. 
MURPHY, Jos. W.. B.C.S. 1927 1720 State St., LaCrosse, \ns . 
SCHAETTLE. Karl A.. B.C.S. 1925 101 S. 17th St., LaCrosse, Wis. 
LITTLE CHUTE VERSTEGEN, Clarence N., Ph.G. 1927 Little Chute. Wis. 
MADISON HAYWARD. Jas. W.. M.S. 1928 1010 Vilas Ave.. Madison. Wis. 
SHAUGHNESSEY. Rodney J., LL.B. 1924 414 W. Dayton St.. Madison, ^Vis. 
MANAWA MEIKLEJOHN. B. H„ B.C.S. 1934 Manawa, Wis. 
MANITOWOC LANGRILL, Richard F.. B.S.Phar. 1930 930 S. Seventh. Manitowoc. Wis. 
MARINETTE KLAVER, Cornelius J.. LL.B. 1925 724 Marietta Ave.. Marinette, Wis. 
LAUEBJWN, Jos. A., B.C.S. 1931 1975 Riverside Ave., Marinette, Wis. 
MABSHPIELD FELKER. Patrick V.. A.B. 1934 213 N. Chestnut St., Mrashiield, Wis. 
LIND. Robt. W.. B.C.S. 1930 303 E. 3rd St., Marshfield, Wis. 
SEIDL, Arnold P., B.S.Phys.Ed. 1933 707 E 4th St., Marshfield, Wis. 
THOMAS, John C, A.B. 1930 306 E. 5th St., Marshfield. Wis. 
UMHOEFER. Ivo A., B.C.S. 1932 907 S. Cherry St., Marshfield. Wis. 
MAUSTON CURRAN, Francis E. A.B. 1930 303 W. State St., Mauston, Wis. 
CURRAN, Frederick Jos.. A.B. 1933 303 W. State St., Mauston, Wis. 
CURRAN, Peter H.. Ph.B.C. 1924 Mauston, Wis. 
MERRILL ANSON, George M.. o.s. 1S95, cl. 1930 Merrill, Wis. 
DAHLBERG, Philip C, A.B. 1932 
R. R. 3, Box 15, Merrill, Wis. 

DONOGHUE, Leonard A., A.B. 1932 Merrill, Wis. 
STANCE, Augustus H., LL.B. 1927 Stange Lumber Co., Merrill, Wis. 
WALTHEB, Francis T., A.B. 1925 203 Mill St.. Merrill; Wis. 
MILWAUKEE BEST. Louis, os. 1901, el. 1926 2931 N. Farwell Ave.. Hilwaukee. Wis. 
BROWN. William. A.B. 1929 2837 W. Highland Blvd.. Milwaukee, Wis. 
BRUST, John J.. BJVrch. 1934 851 N. 29th St. Hilwaukee. Wis. 
BRUST. Paul C. B.S.Arch.E. 1928 851 N. 29th St. Milwaukee. Wis. 
BURKE. Frank P.. LL.B. 1903 110 E. Wisconsin Ave., Milwaukee, Wis. 
CLAUDER. John E., B.C.S. 1934 1337 N. 45th St, Milwaukee, Wis. 
CLEARY, Harold J., M.E. 1917 1134 N. 44th St, Milwaukee, Wis. 
OORAIS, Joseph E., LL.B. 1917 Mariner Tower Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis, 
OORSCHEL. Leonard J., M.E. 1925 I32S N. 23rd St, Milwaukee, Wis. 
DOWNS. C. ITiomas, A.B. 1933 1622 W. Kilbourn Ave., Milwaukee, Wis. 
DUNDON, Dr. John R., Ph.B. 1914 1228 Brady St, Milwaukee, Wis. 
FITZGERALD, Freeman C. M.E. 1916 1601 E. Marion St., Milwaukee, Wis. 
FROMM. William H., B.S.E.E. 1931 1081 B. Circle Drive, Milwaukee. Wis. 
GALOABINI. A. P., B.C.S. 1929 830 E. Keefe Ave., Milwaukee. Wis. 
GALDABINI. Eugene J.. B.S.E.E. 1929 830 E. Keefe Ave.. Milwaukee. Wis. 
GERHARD. Dr. Urban, os. 1926 3515 N. Hackett Ave., Milwaukee, Wis. 
GRIFFIN, Jos. W., A.B. 1928 Century Indemnity Co., 210 E. Michigan St, Milwaukee, Wis. 
HERBERT, Martin B., os. 1901 el. 1931 612 N. 15th St, Milwaukee, Wis. 
HOFF, Albert L.. os. 1907 eL 1926 2739 Prospect Ave., Milwaukee, Wis. 
HOLDAMPF. Frank J., B.S.C.E. 1928 3817 N. Humboldt Ave.. Apt 8. Milwaukee. Wis. 
KELLY, Thos. C, LL.B. 1918 806 No. 11th St, Milwaukee, Wis. 
LA BOULE, Jean F., A.B. 1929 2232 N. Lake Drive, Milwaukee, Wis. 
SIARTIN. John E., os. 1915 el. 1926 2435 N. Stowell Ave.. Milwaukee. Wis. 
MATHEWS. Jas. A.. ULB. 1915 4305 N. Humboldt Ave.. Milwaukee. Wis. 
McINTYBE. John J.. B.S. 1884 5936 N. Berkeley Blvd.. Milwaukee. Wis. 
McMULLEN. Andrew W.. B.C.S. 1925 3807 N. Prospect Ave.. Milwaukee, Wis. 
MILLER. Fred. C , B,C.S. 1929 4614 No. Murray Ave.. Milwaukee, Wis. 
O'BRIEN. Earl J., LL.B. 1931 730 N. 32nd St, Milwaukee, Wis. 
OITZINGER. J. J„ A.B. 1934 1223 S. 54th St. Milwaukee, Wis. 
O'NEILL. Charles, ds. 1926 607 W. Walnut St, Milwaukee. Wis. 
PEARSON. P. Dudley, os. 1919 el. 1926 2037 N. Lake Drive. Milwaukee. Wis. 
POWERS. Patrick G.. Ph.B.Com. 1920 4059 No. 24th St, Milwaukee. Wis. 
REDDEN, William J.. BJ^reh. 1914 3525 W. North Ave.. Milwaukee. Wis. 
REDMOND. Edward J.. B.SJ>har. 1930 Paper Makers Chemical Corp. Milwaukee. Wis. 
ROGERS. Edw. J., os. 1913, el. 1925 2001 Michigan St, Milwaukee, Wis. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALtFMNI DIRECTORY 
BOLFS, Daniel J.. A.B. 1933 1901 E, Bellcvicw Place. Milwaukee. Ws . 
STERNBERG, Edwin L., os. 1920 316 Century Bide.. Milwaulcec, Wis. 
SDLUVAjr. yrm. J.. A.B. ISSl, LI,.B. 1933 Milwaukee Ball Club 
N. Sth & W. Cliamlcrs St.. Mil'kce. ^\^s. 
WATSON, Harold C. Ph.B.F.C. 192S 735 N. Water St.. Milwaukee. Wis. 
WENNINGER. John. A.B. 192S Marquette Univ., Milwaukee, Wis. 
WHEELER. James H.. os. 1917. cl. 1932 Paper Makers Chemical Corp. Station F., Milwaukee. Wis. 
yOCKEV, Ch.iuncey W.. LL.B. 1901 710 E. Mason SL. Milwaukee. Wis. 
YOCKEY. Edw. J.. LUB. 1S99 3118 N. Summit Ave.. Milwaukee. Ws. 
ZEIGLER. Geo. F.. LL.B. 1903 2009 N. 52nd St. Milwaukee. Ws. 
MINOCQUA DOBWIN, Arthur M., A.B. 1930 Minocqua, Wis. 
MT. HOREB BRANNAN, Paul E.. B.C.S. 1934 210 S. 7th St, Mt Horeb, Wis. 
NEENAH CUFFORD. William, os. 1S93 1001 Nicolet BIdv.. Neenah. Wis. 
KELLY, Richard E.. B-Arch 1934 907 Nicolet Blvd.. Neenah. Wis. 
NEW HOLSTEIN lANCENFELD, E. P.. B.C.S. 1931 2129 Wis. Ave, New Holstein, Wis. 
NEW LONDON MANSKE, Hadrian E., Ph.B.Com. 1930 833 Wyman, New London. vVis. 
WERNER, Francis A.. A.B. 1033 518 N. Water St. New London, Wis. 
NEW RICHMOND KEEFE. John M., os. 1931 
M. E. Keefc & Sons. New Richmond. Wis. 
OSHKOSH CARPENTER, Louis E.. B.C.S. 1931 766 Hish St, Oshkosh, Wis. 
DEMPSEY, John E., A.B. 1931 1S9 E. Irving St, Oshkosh, Wis. 
DE4IPSEY. Jos. F.. A.B. 1933 189 E. Iriins St. Oshkosh. Wis. 
FABRYCM, Richard E.. A.B.Phys.Ed. 1932 1382 20th St, Oshkosh. Wis. 
FISS, Chas. J.. A.B. 1933. MJL 1934 60 Church St. Oshkosh. Wis. 
PORTAGE CARROLL. John F.. Ph.B. 1914 110 W. Cook St. Portage. Wis. 
RACINE ANDERSON, Walter E., LL.B. 1923 1222 N. Main St. Racine. ^Vis. 
ARMSTRONG, Frederick W.. A.B. 1931 c-o Armstrong Foundry Co., Racine. Wis. 
BROWN, John H.. A.B. 1929 1124 Erie St. Racine. Wis. 
BAiaLTON', Robert L.. B.C.S. 1934 2915 Washington Ave.. Racine. Wis. 
HEARDEN, Thos. F.. LL.B. 1927 1438 Main St, Racine. Wis. 
HECER, Hilmar B., A.B. 1929 1545 Boyde Ave.. Racine. Wis. .' 
MILLER, Bernard H.. os. 1916, el. 1930 221 6th St . Racine. ^Vis. 
MILLER, Francis H.. B.C.S. 1932 1017 College Ave.. Racine, Wis. 
MILLER, Grover F.. LL.B. 1916 223 6th St. Racine, Wis. 
WIBRY^, Anthony W„ A.B. 1933 1653 N. Chatham St. Racine, Wis. 
EEEDSBOEG HICKEY, John H.. Ph.B.C. 1924 224 4th St. Reedsburg. Wis. 
REULAND, Ra>-mond G.. B.S.Phys. Ed. 1933 501 N. Wainut St, Reedsburg, Wis. 
RHINELANDEK O'MEUA, T. H., A.B. 1934 325 Dahl St. Rhinelander. Wis. 
TRELEVEN, Russell T., B.S. Phar. 1929 120 E. King, Rhinelander, Wis. 
SHAWANO SCHUMACHER, Allan F.. A.B. 1932 Shawano. Wis. 
SHEBOYGAN CALHOUN, Eugene C, B.S.C.E. 1933 628 Erie Ave., Sheboi-gan, Wis. 
CALHOUN. George W., B.C.S. 1934 62S Erie Ave.. Sheboygan, Wis. 
GEREND, Jas. J., Ph.B.Com. 1933 817 N. Ninth St, Sheboygan. Wis. 
NEUSES, Arthur W.. S.E.E. 1917 1502 N. 6th. St, Sheboygan, Wis. 
SHILLSBURG HAYDEN, William B.. M.E. 1912 Shillsburg. Wis. 
SOPERTON Quinlan, John V., A.B. 1933 Soperton, Wis. 
SOUTH MILWAUKEE HAKTY, John H.. B.CS.For.Com. 1927 1008 MilwaukceAve., South Milwaukee. Wis. 
SOBATSKI, Raymond J.. B.S.Phar. 1925 505 Hawthorne Ave.. South Milwaukee, Wis. 
SOUTH ^\'EST BEND PICK. Edwin, os. 1900 el. 1926 li s Sth. Ave., S. West Bend. Wis. 
SPARTA DOYLE, John P.. LL.B. 1917 50S S. Water St., Sparta. Wis. 
STEVENS POINT FISHLEIGH, Kenneth J.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 1019 EIUs St. Stevens Point Wis. 
KREitlBS. David. B.S.Phys.Ed. 192S 532 Main St. Stevens Point, Wis. 
STURGEON BAY BERNHARDT, Eugene H., B.C.S. 1933 210 Lincoln St. Sturgeon Bay. Wis. 
SUPERIOR CAREY, Louis J.. Ph.D. 1929 Wis. State Teacher's College. Superior. Wis. 
FLINTC, Neil W., Ph.B.Com. 1923 575 W. 5th. St , Superior. 'Wis. 
MAHON, John D., B.C.S. 1925 1427 Tower Ave., Superior. Wis. 
MAY, Sherman, LL.B. 1917 May Furniture Co.. Superior. Wis. 
McGILL, Gerald F., A.B. 1928 1707 21st St. Superior. Wis. 
McNALLY. Daniel J.. A.B. 1929 2340 John Ave.. Superior. "Wis. 
STACK, Wm. C. LL.B. 1915 1928 Cummings Ave, Superior. "Wis. 
THREE LAKES WILLIASIS, Frederick, B. Arch. 1913 Clover Crest Farm. Three Lakes. Wis. 
UNITY HOFFSIAN, Alois A.. A.B. 1927 Unity. Wis. 
WATERFORD HENNINGFELD, Francis J.. B.S.Phys.Ed. '33 Watcrford, Wis. 
RUBER, Verne W., B.C.S., 1932 Waterford, Wis. 
WATERLOO VOELKER, John M., B.C.S. 1934 Polk St, Box C, Waterloo, Wis. 
WATERTOWN BEGGAN, Francis P.. LL.B. 1928 Route 3.. Watertown. Wis. 
WAXJPACA HART, Edward J., A.B. 1932 60S Shearer St, Waupaca, Wis. 
WAUSAU DEUTSCH, Fred G., B.C.S. 1927 1010 Grand Ave., Wausau, Wis. 
STUHLFAUTH, George, E.E. 1900 2nd. St, Wausau. wis. 
YOUNG, Andrew W., S.E.E. 1916 207 Clarke St , Wausau. Wis. 
CAWLEY, Forrest M.. LL.B. 1927 617 Grant St, Wausju, Wis. 
WAUWATOSA REAUME, Edward. Ph.B. Com. 1926 1949 Undenvood Ave., Wauwatosa, Wis. 
ROBISON, F. W., B.S.C.E. 1934 2366 N. 67th St, Wauwatosa. Wis. 
1\'EST ALLIS DONAHUE, John J.. B.S.E.E. 1929 Vi.20 VI. National Ave., west Allis. Wis. 
SCHUTTY, Chas. J.. B.CS.For.Com. 1929 6107 Mitchell St. West Allis. Wis. 
POBTEB, Harry J., B.S.C.E. 1930 1440 S. 80th. St. west Allis. Wis. 
ZWECK, Alfred C, S.E.E. 1912 1551 South S2nd. St, West Allis. Wis. 
WEST BEND O'MEAKA, Thos. F., LL.B. 1901 204 Main St. West Bend. Wis. 
O'MEARA, ITios. F., A.B. 1933 902 Walnut St, West Bend. Wis. 
PICK. Carl, OS. 1909 cl. 1930 CH3 Pick Mfg. Co., West Bend. Wis. 
PICK. John B.. LL.B. 1902 922 Hickory St. West Bend. Wis. 
PICK, John F., A.B. 1933 118 Eighth Ave.. West Bend, Wis. 
WEST DB PERE TELFEL, Emil L.. A.B. 1931 S t Norbert College, West De Pere, Wis. 
WILLIASK, D.-iniel C. A.B. 1931 S t Norbert College. West De Pere. Wis. 
AVISCONSIN RAPIDS SCHNASEL, D.E.. A.B. 1934 110 Sth St, N.. Wisconsin Rapids, Wis. 
WOODLAND RUDOLF. James A.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 Woodland, Wis. 
AVYOMING 
BUFFALO 
ROTHWELL. Paul A.. E.E. 1912. M.E. 1912 BulTalo, Wyo. 
CASPER MAHONEY. Philip S., A.B. 1925 Hotel Henning. Casper. Wyo. 
MCCARTHY. Justin J., A.B. 1930 938 S. Beach St, Casper, Wyo. 
PAPAS, Michel J.. A.B. 1932 Gladstone Hotel, Casper, Wyo. 
CHEYENNE KASSIS, Thomas G., Ph. B.For.Com. 1951 Box 95, Cheyenne. Wyo. 
GREEN RIVER GAENSSLEN. Carl A.. B.SJI.B. 1931 Green River, Wyo. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI DIEECTORY 
McFADDEN LAWLER. Jas. W., LL.B. 1913 McFadden, Wyo. 
RAWLINS LOOSIES, Wm. J.. A.B. I92T 119 W. Spruce St., Rawlins, Wyo. 
BELGIUM 

DE LUNDEN, Chas.. S.E.B. 1909 Rue dc la Loi 136. Brussels. Belgium 
CANADA 

GOODEVE. Maurice A.. Ph.B.Com. 1931 303 23rd Ave.. W. Calsary. Alberta. Canada 
KING. Edward C. B.C.S. 1934 389 Main St.. W. Hamilton. Ontario. Canada 
MacBETH. Jr.. Frederick W.. B. C. S. 1933 68 S. Sherman Ave.. Hamilton, Ontario. Canada. 
MOTZ. John E.. A.B. 1930 125 Queen St.. N.. Kitchener. Ont. Cana. 
COOK. Kenneth E.. M.A. 1926 1482 Guy St.. Montreal. Canada 
SHAUGHNESSY. Frank J.. LL.B. 1906 131 Brock Ave.. S. Montreal. West. P. Q.. Canada 
TIMUnNS. Gerald L.. B.S.M.E. 1926 56 St. Sulpice Rd.. Montreal. Canada 
WILSON. Alexander S.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 1933 3359 LaSalle Blvd.. Montreal P. Q. Cana. 
HEARN. John J.. Ph.B. 1914 11 Sault au Matclot St.. Quebec. Canada 
LECLERC. Louis. A.B. 1925-M.A. 1926 11 S t Michael, Quebec, P. Q.. Canada 
DOYLE. Jas. F.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1933 161 Ontario St . S t Catherine's Ontario. Canada 
SWIFT, Frank E.. E.R 1916 203 Geneva St. St. Catherine's. Ontario. Canada 
MacNEIL, Hector. NJi.. 1927 123 Bellwoods Ave.. Toronto. Canada 
CANAL ZONE FOGARTY. John T.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1923 
P. O. Box 307. Balboa. Canal Zone 
CENTRAL AMERICA 

ORTEGA. Pompilio. B.S.AKric 1920 La Libertad, Comaya Honduras, C. A. 
HANBAHAN. Vincent J., Ph.B.Com. 1922 Calleion Melgar No. 20.,Guatemala City. Central America 
COWRIE. Wm. A., C.E. 1900 c-o Eng. G. Colon. San Pedro de Macoris. San Domingo. Central America 
CHINA KHOO, Robt Y., B.S.E.E. 1927 Tian Koc Hone, Amoy, China 
ONG. Benedict C. E.E. 1924 Chuan Chow. Amoy, China 
LI. Francis, B.C.S. 1928 Dept of Sociology, Catholic University, Peking, China 
YANG, Peter S., M.S. 1928 Peiping Union Medical College, Peiping, China 
CHAO. George B.. A.B. 1925 c-o N. C. Chao, The Shun Pao. 
24. Hankow Road. Shanghai. China 

SIAHONEY, Jos. P., A.B. 1927 221 W. Sprnce St., Rawlins. Wyo. 
JIAHONEY, John P.. C.E. 1917 Box -lOo, Rawlins. Wyo. 
ROCK SPRINGS KELLOGG. Frederick R.. B.S.Arch.E. 193-1 714 B St, Sock Sprincs. Wyo. 
FOREIGN COUNTRIES 
MOLLER, Ralph, os. 1931 12 The Bund Shanghai. China 
JOHNSON. Jos. A.. Ph.B.Com. 1928 National City Bank o£ New York. Shanghai. China 
ARIAS, Manuel F.. M.E.E.E. 1913 Refineria Areckabala. Cardenas, Cuba 
CASTILLO, Andres L.. LL.B. 1918 Arguelles No. 132, Cinefuegos, Cuba 
SALAZAR, Emilio R., C.E. 1916 Buena Vista 10. Columbia. Marianao. Cuba 
SAN PEDRO. Dr. Jorge R.. Ph.G. 1916 Sur 6. Consolacion del Sur. Cuba 
SAN PEDRO. Manuel E.. Ph.C. 1909 Consolacion del Sur. Cuba 
SAN PEDRO. Alvaro R.. M.E. 1913 Callc C. No. 18, Pilatos. Province of Pinar Del Rio. Cuba 
GALLART, Jos. P.. C.E. 1907 Guantanamo. Cuba 
PEREZ-MONTEZ de OCA. John P.. C.E. 1907 Guantanamo. Cuba 
SIMON, Arthur T., M.E. 1909 Apartado 197, Guantanamo, Cuba 
FITZGERALD. Christopher C. C.R 1894 La Mctropolitana 204, Havana, Cuba 
GASTON. Francisco J.. C.E. 1902 Calle 10. No. 138 Vedado. Havana. Cuba 
RAYNERI. Eugenio R.. B.S.A.E. 1904 7th Calle, 70 Vedado. Havana. Cuba 
RAYNERI. Virgilio, C.E. 1905 7th Callc. 70 Vedado. Havana. Cuba 
ESCRIBANO. Rafael G.. B.S. Agric. 1921— 
M.S. 1922 Independencia 75. Sancti Spiritus, Cuba 

RUBIO, Marcellinus G., C.E. 1908 Calle Independencia No- 75, Sancti Spiritus. Cuba 
RUBIO. Ramon G.. S.E.E. 1913-M.E. 1914 Estacton E.\perimental Agronomica. Santiago. U de Los Vegas. Cuba 
CZECHO-SLOVAKIA 

BECVAR. Arthur. A.B. 1933 3 F 5 Karlova Ulice, Podoli, Prague. Czecho^Slovakia 
ENGLAND 

DAVIS. Dr. Fred R.. B.S. 1926 54 Upper Berkeley St. W. L., London. England 
BONCHETTI. Peter J., Ch.E. 1918 Com Products. Ltd.. Bush Howe. Aldwych, W C 2, London, England 
SWEENY, Robt J., A.B. 1903 20 Copthall Ave.. London. E. C. England SARTORETTO. Paul A.. B.9.Ch.E. 1933. 415 E St.. H.S. 1934 Rock Springs. Wyo. 
WAMSUTTER 

QUINN, Edw. R. A.B. 1928 Wanisutter. Wyo. 
FRANCE 

HARL, Louis P.. Ph.B. Joum. 191S Editorial Dept. Paris Edition. New York Herald. Paris, France. 
SnCHAUD, Louis P., S.E.E. 1910 General Motors, France, 89-95 Blvd. de Lorraine, Clichy, Seine. France 
SWEENEY, Col. Charles, os. 1899 21 rue Daunou. Paris. France 
HAVELICK. Francis J., Ph.B. For.Com. '29 IVheeler Field. Honolulu. T. H.. Hawaii 
INDIA 

SHARMA. Cyan C , Ph.D. 1927 Principal Victoria Diamond Jubille Hindu. Technical Institute. Railway Lahore. Punjab, India 
IRELAND 

REAGAN, Maurice J.. B.S. 1931 Trinity College. Dublin. Ireland 
MEXICO 

GUERRA. Samuel J.. C.E. 1906 Apartado Postal 105. Aguascallentes. Mexico 
VILLANUEVA. Louis S.. C.E. 1907 Celaya, Mexico 
FALO^mt, Jose M.. C.E. 1907 Calle Aldama No. 411, Chihuahua. Mexico 
FRANCO, Carlos. SJH.E. 1914 Gomez Palacio. Durango, Mexico 
GURZA, Miguel, SJI.K 1912 Secundo Nigrete 12, Durango, Mexico 
GARZA. Oscar EL. B.S. ELE. 192T Apartado No. 153 Leon. Gto.. Mexico 
AGUAYO, William O., B.S.C.E. 1930 Apdo. 25, Linares, N. L.. Mexico 
BLANCO, Victor. M!n.E. 1925 Guillermo Prieto No. 10. Mexico. D. F. Mexico 
FLORES. Raul. B.S.Ch.E. 1927 25 Cordoba, Me.Hico. D. F. 
LABARTHE, Edward C. B.S.C.E. 1932 Jalapa 81. Mexico City. Mexico 
MORPHY. Wm. A.. B.S.C.E. 1931. C.E. 1934 Venustiano Carranza No. 62. Despacho 102. Mexico City. Mexico 
NEWNINC. Harry M.. Ph.B. 1914 American Club. Mexico City. Mexico 
SANCHEZ. Alfred A.. C.K 1912 Avenida Hippodrome No. 295. Mexico City. Mexico 
SCHWAB. Francis C. A.B. 1902 Vera Cruz 16, Mexico City, Mexico 
De TARNAVA, Jr.. Constantino. E.E 1923 Dr. Mier 113, Monterey, Mexico 
NIETO. Francis G., C.K, 1909 Monterey, Mexico 
TREVINO, Fernando. B.S. 1927 Hidalgo, 210, Monterey, N. L., Mexico 
TREVINO, Gustavc L., E.E. 1908, M.S. 1909 Apartado 60, Monterey, Mexico 
TREVIKO. Jose L , E.E. 1925 Apartado 60, Monterey, K. L., Mexico 
TREVINO, Hodoiro K., E.E. 1925 Apartado 60, Monterey, N. L., Mexico 
GARZA. Rudolfo M., B.S.EJ!. 1928 Bolivar 429, Monterey, Nuevo Xjcon, Mex. 
GONZALEZ, Manoel, E.E. 1925 Puebia, Mexico 
RIVERA, Jr.. Jose M., SJLE. 1920 Avenida Hidalgo No. 33, Queretaro, Oro., Mexico 
GARZA. Ralph B., B.S.E.E. 1928 Hidals" Snr No. 8, Salttllo, Cioahuila, Mexico 
GARCL&, Rafael, E.B. 1911 loth Ave., Juarez No. 10, Tezintlan Puehla, Mexico 
LOPEZ. Jos. T., S.E.E. 1909 Galle Mont, Sacro Queretaro, Mexico 
GONZALEZ, Juan G., C.E. 1914 Hidalgo Sur No. 5, Saltillo Coah, Mexico 
jnjNIAIN. Lucio F.. B-S-Chem-E. 1933 Apartado 36, Galeana II, San Luis Potosi, Mexico 
DDNAND R. E.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1931 Fundacion 33, Silao. Guanajuato, Mexico 
RODRIGUEZ, Enrique B.S.E.E. 1930 c-o Jose E. Rodriguez, Box 94, Tampico, Mexico 
OCHOA, Conrad M.. Ph.BJor.Com. 1928 Hda. La Purisima, Tuxpan, Jal., Mexico 
MELO, Ale-xander, B.S.E.E. 1931 
B. Juarez 47, Vera Cruz, Mexico 
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS 
AMADOR, Doreteo, LL.B. 1917 Bacoa, Sarsogen, P. I. 
DONATO, Mariano, E.E. 1923 Candon Elec Light Assn., Gandon, Ilocos Sur, P. L 
ALVAREZ, Rafael P., RE. 1925 Kabanlcalan, P. I. 
CATANJAL, A.C., JLA. 1931 St. Rita's Hall, Manila, P. L 
GONZALEZ, Anthony F., B.C.S. 1925 915 A. MaWni, Manila, P. 1. 
ALABAMA 
D'AjnCO, O.S.B., Rev. Bemadine, A.M. 1922 Cullman, Ala. 
CAPESIUS, I!ev. Andrew J., MJL 1924. St. Bernard, Ala. PhJ). 1929 
BIWANGER, O.S.B., Rev. Benno J., M.A. 1924 St. Bernard, Ala. 
FANGJIANN, O.S.B.. Rev. Sylvester. MJL1924 St. Bernard, Ala. 
FERSTL, O.S.B., Rev. Edmund, M.A. 1923 St. Bernard, Ala. 
FUSSNECKER, O.S.B., Rev. Isidore. AJJ. 1926 S t Bernard, Ala. 
McGRATH, O.S.B., Kcv. Maurus W.. St. Bernard, Ala. M.A .1934 
MOSSSIAN, O.S.B., Rev. P. Herman, St. Bernard, Ala. B.M. 1926 
OBERDOERFOR. O.S.B., Hev. B., M.S. 1921 St. Bernard, Ala. 
GONZALES. Rafael J., MJl 1922 915 A. Mahini Malate, Manila. P. I. 
GOTUACO, John F., C.R 1921 214 Calle Soldar, Manila. P. I. 
MELIAN Eduardo, B.S.Chem-E. 1931 Ayala t Co., P. O. Box 751, Manila, P. I. 
ROXAS, Antonio P., Ph.B.ror.Com. 1926 741 Echague, Sfanila, P. I. 
ROXAS, Eduardo G., B.C.S.For.Com. 1933 719 Echague, Manila, P. I. 
TAN, Paulino C, Ph.B.Com. 1923 733 Zacateros, Manila, P. I. 
ZABARTE, Jose T., B.S.Agri. 1932 129 Bustillos St., Manila, P. I. 
ZOBEL, Alfonso, Ph.B.For.Cbm. 1924 c-o Ayala & Cia, 21 Calle Puan Luna. Manila, P. I. 
EN'AJE. Francisco D.. C.K 1912 Naval, Leyte, P. L 
SUMABAT, Doreteo J„ MA. 1932 Salana, Cagayan, P. I. 
URQUICO, Jose A.. LL.B. 1916 Tarfac, Tarlac, P. I. 
PORTO RICO 
DEXTER, Francis H.. A.B. 1887, A.M. 1891 San Juan, Porto Rico 
USERA, Fernando H., LL.B. 1913 12 Villa St., Ponce, Porto Rico 
USERA. J. Hernandez. LL.B. 1901 
P. O. Box 470, San Juan, Porto Rico 
SALVADOR 
RIVAS, Humberto M., E.E. 1919 Santa Tecia, Salvador 
SOUTH AMERICA 
GRIFFIN, Thos. D., A.B. 1925 c-o Kodac Chilena Ltda. Valparaiso, Chile, S. A. 
RH'ERA, Alejandro R.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1934 Delicias 767, Santiago, Chile, S. A. 
DAMIANA. Carlos E., S.M.E. 1914 Apartado 393, Arequipa, Peru, 5. A. 
DcROSIANA, Fernando, Min.E. 1924 Consuelo 116, P. O. Box 98, Arequipa, Peru, S. A. 
YRIBERRY, Carlos, B.S.C.E. 1934 Arequipa, Peru, S. A. 
YRIBERRY, Miguel J., B.S.CJ!. 1934 Arequipa, Peru, S- A­
RELIGIOUS 
O'NEILL, O.S.B., Rev. Gilbert A.M. 1926 S t Bernard, Ala. 
ARKANSAS STRASSNER, Rev. Geo. F. X., A.B. 1914 
P. O. Box 52, Hope, Ark. 
DEUSTER, O.S.B., Rev. Louis, A3I. 1926 Subiaco, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 
OTT, Rev. Francis C, el. 1925 469 3rd Ave., Chula Vista, Calif. 
BOLGER, C.S.C., Kev. Henry J., A. B. 1924 311 N. Raymond Ave., Pasadena, Calif. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
BOEmr, C.S.C., Claude L., A.B. 1931 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 
DAYBERRY, C.S.C., Aloysius A , A.B. 1931 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 
FIGUEIRADO. Jose. A,, C.E. 1925 Sobral, Ceaxa, Brazil, S. A. 
ARCE. Julius A.. C.E. 1899 Adolfo 3442. Buenos Aires. Argentina. S. A. 
KENNEDY. Harry E., Ph-BJor-Com. 1931 Adolfo Beno 3442, Buenos Aires, Argentina, S. A. 
RIBEIRO, Francisco. E.R 1923 Rua Coyaz 256, Bello Horizonte, Minas, Brazil 
DENCHFIELD, Arthur L., B.C.S.For.Com. 1928 Singer Sewing Machine Co. Sau Paulo, Brazil, S. A. 
BUSTAMENTE, Louis C.. Ph.C. 1922 Box 76, Cartagena, Colombia, S. A. 
LEQUERICA, Antonio, M.R 1913 
P. O. Box 37, Cartagena, Colombia, S. A. 
LEQUERICA. Manuel. Ch.R I9I3 Cartagena. Colombia. S. A. 
ESPINOSA, Julio H., B.S. Agri. 1923 Carozal, Bolivar, Colombia, S. A. 
ESPINOSA. Lazaro, E.K 1924 Carozal, Bolivar, Colombia, S. A. 
KESTREPO, Bernardo, Ph.G. 1918, B.S.Phar. Medcllin, Colombia, S. A. 
RESTREPO, Ramon, M.R 1920 Medellin, Colombia, S. A. 
Dc CASTRO, Hector Eey, B.S.Agri. 1921 Peruvian Legation, Quito, Ecuador, S. A. 
SCARON. J. Pedro, RE. 1923 Vazquez Ledcsma 2885, Montevideo, Uruguay, S. A. 
de CASTRO. R Rey M.R 1923 Box 67, Atequipa, Peru, S. A. 
RI\'ERA, Loois A., B.S.Agri. 1924 Arequipa, Peru, S. A. 
VILLANUEVA, Manuel G., B.SJigri. 1923 Guanamaria 526, Arequipa, Peru, S. A. 
DUQUE, Carlos A., CJ!. 1912 Cuzco, Peru, S. A. 
GONZALEZ. Carlos A.. SJB.E. 1912, Huanueo, Peru, S. A. SJI.E. 1913 
ARANA. Victor M., M.RE.R 1903 Calle LaPaz 34, Apdo 64, Lima, Fern, S. A. 
MALATESTA. Andres B., B.SJVgri. 1923 Tacna, Peru, S. A. 
BUTLER, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas P., A.B. 1919 Holy Cross College. Brookland, D.C. 
DUFFY, C.S,C., Patrick R., A.B. 1931 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 
GIBBONS, C.S.C., Rev, Jas. P., A.B. 1929 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 
GOODALL, C.S.C., Rev. Frank P., C.R. Fordgn Mission Seminary A.B. 1920 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 

JOHN. C.S.C., Brother, B. S. 1931 Foreign Missionary Seminary, Brookland, D. C. 
JONES, CS..C., T. P., A.B. 1931 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 
KELLY, C.S.C., Rev. Thos. A., A.B. 1920 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 
LANE, C.S.C., Rev. Thos. J., A.B. 1929 Holy Cross College. Brookland, D.C. 
LYNCH, C.S,C John P., A.B. 1925 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI DIRECTORY 
LUTTMAX G.S.C.. Kev. Jos. F.. A.B. 1929 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 
iHASSAKT, C.S.C., Bev. Raymond A., Foreign Missionary Seminary A.B. 1927 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 
SIATHIS, C.S.C., Rev. Michael A., Litt-B. 1910 3IedicaI Missionary Society, Brookland, D.C. 
McCAULEY, C.S.C, Rev. Vincent J., Foreign Missionary Seminary A.B. 1930 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 
MCCARTNEY, C.S.C. Rev. Jos. T.. A.B. 1926 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C. 
MCELROY,.O.F.M., Frater Ivo, os. 1915 Holy Name College, "Washington, D. C. 
MOLTER . C.S.C, Rev. John A., A.B. 1929 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 
MOONEY. C.S.C., Rev. E. Vincent, LL.B. 191G 1312 Mass. Ave., N.W., Washington. D. C. 
MULREAXY, C.S.C., Andrew J., A.B. 192S Holy Cross College. Brookland, D. C. 
MURPHY, C.S.C. Rev. Richard D., A.B. 1931 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 
O'COXXELL, C.S.C, Rev. John P., A.B. 1930 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 
BEDDIXGTOX, C.S.C, Rev. John J., Ph.B.For.Com. 1923, A.B. 1930 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C. 
ROBIXSOX, C.S.C., Rev. Wm. H., A.B. 1920 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C. 
SWITALSKI. C.S.C, Rev. Raj-mond C. Foreign Missionary Seminars', A.B. 1922 Brookland, D. C 
SWEEX"EY. CS.C., Rev. Robert H., A.B. 1930 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C 
WALSH, C.S.C.. Rev. Matthew J., Litt.B. 1903 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C 
WEBER. CS.C., Rev. Francis R., A.B. 1931 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C 
WOYWOOD, O.F.M., Rev. Stanislaus, Holy Name College LL.B. 1923 Brookland, D. C 
YOUXG, C.S.C, Rev. Chas. J.. A.B. 1929 Foreign Missionary Seminary, Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C. 
GEORGIA 

EICHENLAUB, O.S.B., Rev. Gregory. Savannah, Ga. 
ILLINOIS KREIDLER. O.S.B., Rev. IJV.. M.A. 1933 Marmion Academy, Aurora, III. 
MULCAIRE, Rev. James F., A.B. 1929 Holy Angels Parish, Aurora, III. 
OHIGSLAGER, O.S.B., Rev. Maurus, 3Iarmton Academy, M.A. 1929 Aurora, 111. 
PRESKE, O.S.B., Rev. Matthew, MJV.. 192S Marmion Academy, Aurora, III. 
SPITZMESSER, O.S.B., Rev. Norbert. Marmion Academy M~A. 1929 Aurora, 111. 
ROCHE. Rev. Kcithen L., A.B. 1926 S t Marj-'s Church, Canton, III. 
AUSTIX. F.S.C.H.. Brother Arthur. 
•7914 S. Peoria St, B.C.S. 1933 Chicago, 111. 
BALDWIN, C.S.C, Rev. George J., A.B. 1924 University of Chicago, Chicago, III. 
CURTIS, F.S.C.H., Brother M, S. 7914 S. Peoria St, Chicago, 111. 
EDWARD, C.S.C. Brother, A.B. 1932 Holy Trinity High School, Chicago, 111. 
FILEHNE. F.S.CH., Brother H.A. 7914 S. Peoria St, Chicago, 111. 
FINTAN, CS.C., Brother, A.B. 1931 5439 Kimbark Ave., Chicago, III. 
GEORGE, C.S.C.. Brother, Ph.B.Ed. 1924 Holy Trinity High School, Chicago. III. 
GREGORY, C.S.C.. Brother, B.S. 1924, Holy Trinity High School, M.S. 1932 Chicago, III. 
INXOCENT, C.S.C, Brother, A.B. 1934 Holy Trinity High School, Chicago, HI. 
JAJIES OF SIARY, P.S.C. Brother, A.B. 1926 De La Salle Institute, 3453 Wabash Ave., Chicago, III. 
KOLSKI, CS.C. Edmund C. A.B. 1931 2118 Pierce Ave., Chicago, III. 
KUSZYNSKI, C.S.C., Rev. Stanislaus. Holy Trinity Church, A.B. 1915 Chicago, in. 
MAXmUS, C.S.C, Brother, A.B. 1924 Holy Trinity High School, Chicago, III. 
MULVANEY, F.S.CH., Brother Eugene Pius 7914 S. Peoria St, M.A. 1934 Chicago, 111. 
NOWAKOWSKI, CS.C. Rev. Francis. Holy Trinity High School, A.B. 1930 Chicago, HI. 
OWEN, C.S.C, Brother, A.B. 1924 Holy Trinity High School, Chicago, III. 
RICHARD, C.S.C. Brother, B.S. 1931 Holy Trinity High School, Chicago, III. 
STANISLAUS, CS.C., Brother, A.B. 1926 Holy Trinity High School. Chicago, 111. 
\1CT0R, C.S.C.. Brother, A.B. 1926, MJL 1933 Holy Trinity High School. Chicago,. 111. 
WALTER, F.S.C, Brother James. LittB. 1915 De La Salle Institute, 3455 Wabash Ave. Chicago, 111. 
WILLIAJI, C.S.C, Brother, Litt.B. 1923 5439 Kimbark Ave., Chicago, 111. 
SOLON, Msgr. Jas. A., B.S. 1SS4, M.S. 1S8G, Dekalb, 111. A.M. 1892 
CODY, O.C, Rev. J. G., A.B. 1931 Corpus Christ! High School, Galesburg, 111. 
O'NEILL, O.Carm.. Rev. Matthew T., Joliet Citholic High School, M,A. 1932 Joliet 111. 
BURKE, Rev. ^ViIliam P., el. 1928 Kewanee, HI. 
HAWLEY, Rev. Ernest A.M. 1894 Lacon, HI. 
RYAN, Rev. Michael. A.B. 1S95 309 Jackson St, Macomb, III. 
GAINOR. O.P., Rev. Leo C, el. 1931 525 Washington Blvd., Oak Park, III. 
SHEA, CS.C, E. S., A.B. 1931 7105 S. Scoville Ave., Oak Park, HI. 
BURKE. Msgr. J. J., A.B. 1883, A.M. 1S8S 211 Bradley Ave., Peoria, HI. 
CIMA, O.S.B., Rev. Augustine, M.A. 1934 S t Bede College, Peru, III. 
WILLIAMS, Rov. Charles J.. LittB. 1918 S t Peter's Rectory, Piper City, HI. 
MAGUIRE, Rev. Thos. O., A.B. 1909 S t Mary's Church, Tampico, 111. 
VOET, Rev. Flavian, M.A 1929 S t Mary's Rectory, 312 Lincoln Ave., Woodstock, III. 
INDIANA 

CRUMLEY. C.S.C, Rev. Thos. A., A.B, 1896 St. John's Hospital, Anderson, Ind. 
KELLY, C.S.C., Rev. Thos. A , A.B. 1920 Holy Cross College, Brookland, D.C 
TOTH, Rev. Jos. M., A.B. 1911 4759 McCoofc Ave., East Chicago, Ind. 
AIDAN, CS.C, Brother, A.B. 1927 Reitz Memorial High School, Evansville, Ind. 
BONAVENTURE. C.S.C.. Brother, A.B. 1932 Principal, Reitz Memorial High School, Evansville, Ind. 
DANIEL, C.S.C., Brother, Ph.BJl 1924 Reitz Memorial High School, Evansville, Ind. 
FELIX, C.S.C., Brother, B.S. 1933 Reitz Memorial High School, Evansville, Ind. 
MEXDEZ, CS.C, Alfred F., A.B. 1931 514 Washington Ave., Evansville, Ind. 
REED, O.S.B., Rev. J.H., M.A. 1929 S t Benedict's Chtlrch, Evansville. Ind. 
REGIS, CS.C, Brother, A.B. 1931 Reitz Memorial High School, Evansville, Ind. 
STEPHEN, CS.C, Brother Reitz Memorial High School, Evansville, Ind. 
CELSUS, C.S.C, Brother, A.B. 1934 Central Catholic H. S., F t Wayne, Ind. 
DOKTOR. Rev. Julian, 03. 1911. el. 1927 2803 Holton St, Ft Wayne, Ind. 
EJIIL, C.S.C., Brother, A.B. 1932 Central Catholic H. S., F t Wayne, Ind. 
3IEL, C.S. C, Brother, B.S. 1931 Central Catholic H.S., F t Wayne, Ind. 
TERENCE, C.S.C., Brother, B. S. 1933 Central CathoUc H. S.. F t Wayne, Ind. 
THIELE. R t Rev. Msgr., C H., os. 1883 S t Peter's Square, F t Wayne, Ind. 
XAVIER, C.S.C., Brother, A.B. 1926 Central Catholic H. S., F t Wayne, Ind. 
ALFRED, C.S.C., Brother, A.B. 1934 Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, Ind. 
BERNARD, CS.C., Brother, Ph3.Bd. 1924 Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, Ind. 
BOERES. C.S.C., Rev. Francis J., A.B. 1882 Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, Ind. 
BRUNO, C.S.C, Brother, B.S. 1925, M.S. 1934 Cathedral ^g h School, Indianapolis, Ind. 
CASSIAN. CS.C, Brother, A.B. 1932 Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, Ind. 
DASnAN, C.S.C., Brother, Ph.B. 1925 Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, Ind. 
DONALD, CS.C, Brother, A.B. 1931 Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, Ind. 
FERDINAND, CS.C., Brother, BJlrch. 1923 Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, Ind. 
HAROLD, CS.C, Brother, Ph.B.Ed. 1924 Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, Ind. 
JOEL, CS.C, Brother, A,B. 1934 Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, Ind. 
JUDE. C.S.C., Brother, oa. 1930 Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, Ind. 
HILARY, C.S.C, Brother, A.B. 1930 Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, Ind. 
LEONARD, CS.C. Brother, Ph.BJEa. 1924 Cathedral High School, M-l. 1934 Indianapolis, Ind. 
PAUL, C.S.C. Brother, A.B. 1933 Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, Ind. 
PIERRE, C.S.C; Brother. A.B. 1933 Cathedral High School, Indianapolis. Ind. 
RAPHAEL, C.S.C.. Brother. B.S. 1930 Cathedral High School. Indianapolis; Ind. 
CAREY, CS.C. Charles M.. A.B. 1931 1131 N. Armstrong St, Kokomo, Ind. 
PATRICK. C.S.C.. Richard D., A.B. 1931 1019 Walnut St, Plymouth, fed. 
HEALY. C.S.C.. Rev. Kemdt M.. lattB. 191S S t Joseph Novitiate. Rolling Prairie, Ind. 
SCHRETER. C.S.C. Rev. Andrew 1., A.B. 1914. MJl. 1925 
- St. Joseph Novitiate. Rolling Praine. Ind. 
THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUJINI DIKECTOBY 
STEGHAN, C.S.C Henry F.. Ph.B.Com. 1932 St. Joseph Novitiate, Rollins Prairie, Ind. 
TESKE. C.S.C.. Lloyd Wm.. A.B. 1933 St. Joseph's Novitiate, Rolling Prairie. Ind. 
CORCORAN. C.S.C., Rev. Wendell P.. Christ The King Church, A.B. 1907 Roseland, Ind. 
BEHRMAN. O.S.B.. Bev. Peter, M.A. 192S St. Meinrad. Ind. 
DUDINE. O.S.B., Rev Chas, M.A. 1929 St. Meinrad, Ind. 
ELPERS, O.S.B., Rev. Aemilian, M.A. 1929 St. Meinrad, Ind. 
THHIS, O.S.B., Rev. Stephen M.Mus. 192S St. Meinrad, Ind. 
BARRY. C.S.C., Rev. Joseph D., A.B. 1929 St. Joseph's Church, South Bend, Ind. 
BEACHAK. C.S.C., Rev. Philip, Litt-B. 1919 Holy Cross Church, South Bend, Ind. 
DOHBRTT. C.S.C., Rev. Paul D. St. Patrick's Church, South Bend, Ind. 
FRENCH. C.S.C, Rev. Jas. J., A.M. 1S90 St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, Ind. 
JANOWSKI, C.S.C., Rev. Sigismund A., St. Hedwige's Church, A.B. 1022 South Bend, Ind. 
KHIECIK. C.S.C. Rev. Joseph. A.B. 1930 St. Stanislaus Church. South Bend. Ind. 
LUZNY. C.S.C„ Rev. Francis X.. A.B. 1914 St. Hedwige's Church, South Bend, Ind. 
MINNICK, C.S.C., Rev. Wm. St. Patrick's Church, South Bend. Ind. 
OSWALD. C.S.C. •Raw Michael F.. A.B. 1S9S St. Mary's Church. South Bend, Ind. 
ROSEWICZ. C.S.C., Rev. Anthony J., St. Casimir's Church, LittB. 1911 South Bend, Ind. 
SZVHANOWSEI. C.S.C.. George H., A.B. 1931 822 W. Fisher St, South Bend, Ind. 

WITUCKI. C.S.C.. Rev. Casimir, A.B. 1923 St. Casimir's Church, South Bend, Ind. 
ANASTASIUS, C.S.C., Brother, B.S. 1934 Gibault Home. Terre Haute. Ind. 
RUPERT, CS.C. Brother, os. 1930 Gihault Home. Terre Haute, Ind. 
DWYER. Rev. Vincent D., A.B. 1900 Troy, Ind. 
IOWA 

RVAN. Rev. Harrj-. A.B. 1927 228 E. Court St.. Iowa City. Iowa 
KANSAS 

DEHHER, O.S.B.. Rev. Florian. M.A. 192: Atchison. Kans. 
McNEILL. Eev. Leon A., os. 1926 307 E. Central Ave, \\nchita. Kans. 
KENTUCKY 

JDSTIN. CP.X.. Brother, A.M. 1928 St. Joseph's College, Bardstown, Ky. 
REISER. CS.C, Rev. Jos. A., LitLB. 1913 Chaplain. Camp Knox, Ky. 
MEYER, O.S.B, Rev. Clarence, MJ\. 1924 401 Laurel Ave., Corbin, Ky. 
DAL.TON. C.S.C.. Rev. Patrick J.. Litt.B. 1921 Holy Name Church. Henderson, Ky. 
LENNARTZ. CS.C. Rev. Wm. P.. Holy Name Church Litt.B. 1908 Henderson. Ky. 
MARSHALL. C.S.C. Rev. Chas. J. 1020 E. Burnett Ave. LitLB. 1911 lAnusvillet Ky. 
OSWALD. Brother. A.B. 1928. M.A. 1931 Xaverian Brothers, Louis\-ine. Ky. 
LOUISIANA 
ASSISI, C.S.C, Brother Holy Cross College, New Orleans, La. 
BENEDICT, CS.C, Brother. B.S. 1931 Holy Cross College, New Orleans. La. 
COFFEEN, Rev. Walter H., A.B. 1913 1139 Dryades St., New Orleans, La. 
CONWAY', C.S.C, Rev. Walter K., _ Sacred Heart Church, Litt.B. 1923 New Orleans, Ls. 
DOLAN. CS.C, Rev. Geo. W., A.B. 1930 Sacred Heart Church, New Orleans, La. 
FREDERICK, C.S.C, Brother, M.S.E.E. 1921 Holy Cross College, New Orleans, La. 
GERARD, CS.C, Brother, Ph.B.Ed, 1922 Holy Cross College, New Orleans, La. 
GORDAN, C.S.C.. Brother, A.B. 1927 Holy Cross College, New Orleans, La. 
HOOYBOER, C.S.C, Rev. Cornelius A.. Sacred Heart Church, A.B. 1929 New Orleans, La. 
LEON. C.S.C, Brother, A.B. 1931 Holy Cross College, New Orleans. La. 
Ma<J>AMARA, C.S.C, Bev. Geo. J., A.B. 1904 Sacred Heart Church, New Orleans, La. 
RYAN. C.S.C.. Bev. Jas. J., A.B. 1920 Sacred Heart Church, New Orleans, La. 
VINCENT, C.S.C, Brother, Ph.B.Ed. 1924 Holy Cross College, New Orleans, La. 
JUnNEZ, Rev. Philip O. P.. B.S. 1926 Dominican College, Ponchatoula, La. 
FERNANDEZ. Padre C, B.S.Chem. 19IG, Ponchatoula. M.S. 1917 Rosaryvillc, La. 
BRUGGER. O.S.B.. Rev. A. F. St. Joseph's Abbey, St. Benedict. La. 

EGLER. O.S.B., Rev. Raymond, A.B. 1931 St. Benedict, La. 
JIARYLAND 

CHARLES, C.F.X., Brother, A.B. 1932 Mt. St. Joseph's College, Baltimore, Md. 
COUGHLAN. CS.C, Bev. Wm. J., A.B. 1929 Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md. 
KENNA. CS.C. Rev. Jas. H., A.B. 192G, St. Mary's Seminary, M.S. 1932 Roland Park, Baltimore, Md. 
PHILIP. C.F.X., Brother, A.B. 1932 ait. St. Joseph's College, Baltimore, Md. 
FURRY, Rev. Wm. D , A.B. 1900. A.M. 1903 Hancock. Md . 
MASSACHUSETTS 

FISCHER, CS.C. Rev. Geo. Bernard. Our Lady of Holy Cross. Ph.B.C. 1922 North Dartmouth, Mass. 
LEE. C.S.C., Rev. Chas. A.. A.B. 1930 Seminary of Our Lady of Holy Cross, North Dartmouth, Mass. 
MCDOWELL, C.S.C.. Rev. Archibald, Notre Dame Seminary, A.B. 1929 North Dartmouth, Mass. 
WOODWARD, C.S.C., Rev. Bobt. W.. Notre Dame Seminary, A.B. 1928 North Dartmouth, Mass. 
ALBEUS, C.F.X.. Brother, ILS. 1929 Xaverian Brothers' Residence, St. Joseph's Juniorate, Peabody, Mass. 
BENOIT, CS.C, Brother, Ph.B.Coro. 1932 61 Summer St., Taunton, Mass. 
FLORENCE, C.S.C.. Brother Msgr. Coyle High School, Taunton, Mass. 
GERALD, C.S.C.. Brother, A.B. 1934 Msgr. Coy}e High School, Taunt«n, MaiSs. 
HEGARTY. Brother Majella. os. 1925 Msgr. Ooyle High School. Taunton, Mass. 
JARLATB, CS.C. Brother. A.B. 1931 Msgr. Coyle. H.S,. Taunton. Mass. 
HARCIAN. C.S.C.. Brother. OS. 1924 Msgr. Coyle High School, Taunton, Mass. 
RONALD, CS.C., Brother. A.B. 1934 61 Summer St.. Taunton. Mass. 
THOMAS, C.S.C.. Brother. A.B. 1933 61 Summer St, Taunton, Moss. 
FAY. N.SJ., Thos. P., JLA. 1933. Boy Guid. Shadowbrook, West Stockbridge. Mass. 
MICHIGAN 
DUPUIS. CS.C. John M., A.B. 1931 3032 Pingrie Ave.. Detroit, Mich. 
FITZPATRICK, CS.C, Thomas M., A.B. 1931 6200 W. Vernor Highway, Detroit, Mich. 
STRAHAN, Rev. Wm. S., A.B. 1917 Fife Lake, Mich. 
GALLAGHER, C.S.C. Rev. Hugh S., A.B. 1900 
C.O Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich. 
BAUER, C.S.C., laivrence T., A.B. 1931 EJ.D. I, Bos 63, No>-vell, Mich. 
CIERUT, Eev. Joseph A.. M.S. 1934 Orchard Lake, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 
HENRY, Brother. A.B. 1926 315 2nd Ave. W.. Duluth, Minn. 
BLOMHESTEIN, O.S.C, Rev. John C, Crosier Fathers, M-iV. 1933 Onamia, Minn. 
JAMES. F.S.C.. Brother Edward. A.M. 1926 Cretin High School, Randolph St. & Hamline Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 
COUGHLIN. Rev. Bernard J., A.B. 1926 St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn. 
O'CONNOR, Rev. Edmund, el. 1915 St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn. 
VAN BEERSUH, Anthony C, A.B. 1934 St. Paul Seminary, St. Paul, Minn. 
MISSOURI 

MALONE. O.S.B.. Rev. E.E. Conception Abbey, Conception, 3Io. 
DAMES, Rev. Wm. J., el. 1920 
I>utzon\ Mo. 

JOSEPH. F.S.C, Brother Lawrence, MJV. 1925 Christian Brothers High School, St. Joseph, Mo. 
HcSHANE, SwJ, Jas. L., A.B. 1928 St. Louis U., St. Louis, Mo. 
WILLIAM. F.S.C., Brother L., Litt.B. 1923 6501 Clayton Rd., St. Louis, Mo. 
MONTANA 

BERCHHANS, F.S.C.H., Brother Patrick, Butlc, Mont. M.S. 1923 
EUNAN, F.S.C.H., Brother Michael 105 S. Idaho St, Butte, Mont, 
MCCARTHY. F.S.CH.. Bro. Pat D., M.S. 1922 105 S. Idaho St., Butte, Mont. 
HcMABON, F.S.C.H. Brother Catholic High School, Butte, Mont. 
SCHEIDLER. Rev. Russel. A.B. 1930 Immaculate Conception Church, 
- Butte, Mont. 
REGAN, Rev. John E., A.B. 1924 624 Fifth Ave., S., Great Falls, Mont. 
NEBRASKA 

KANE. C.S.C„ C E.. A.B. 1931 5008 Capital Ave., Omaha, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY 

FLYNN. O.S.B.. Kov. G.H.. M.A. 1931 St. Mary's Atbey. 528 Hieh St.. Newark, N.J. 
NEW YORK 

FlTZSnmONS, Rev. Fergus E., LL.B. 1934 St. Bonaventure's Monastery, Bonaventurc, N, Y. 
RATH, Rev. J. A., A.B. 190S Church of St. Boniface. Elmont. L. L, N.Y. 
GALLAGHER, Rev. Donald S.. A.B. 1924 17 Laurence, Ave., Potsdam. N. Y. 
ANGELUS, Brother Charles. M.S. 1922 Christian Brothers of Ireland. St. Mary's on the Hudson, N. Y. 
TOOMEY. Rev. Jos. B.. A.B. 1926 Catholic Charities, 261 E. Onondaga St.. Sj-racuse, N. Y. 
BOCH, O.M.C.. Rev. Brother. LL.B. 1896 19 Shonnard Place, Yonkers. N.Y. 
SHEA, Rev. Michael J., A.B. 1904. A.M. 1903 St. Joseph's Seminarj', Dunwoodie. Yonkers, N. Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA 

ARTHUR, O.S.B.. Rev. Raphael, M.A. 1928 Belmont. N. C. 
BRENNAX, O.S.B., Rev. Robert. M.A. 1929 Belmont, N. C. 
FRIERSON, O.S.B., Rev. Leo. M.A. 192S Belmont, N. C. 
KLAPPEL, O.S.B., Rev. Placid Belmont Abbey College. Belmont, N. C. 
McGOWAN, O.S.B., Rev. Norbert. M.A. 1929 Belmont. N. C. 
OHIO 

MORIARTY, Rev. Michael L., Litt.B. 1910 Director of Charities, 1900 Euclid Ave.., Cleveland, O. 
JENNINGS, Rev. Gilbert P. SOOO Euclid Ave., Cleveland, O. 
SEWARD, Edward J., A.B. 1934 St. Mary Seminan*, Cleveland, O. 
SCHAERP, C.S,C., P. H.. A.B. 1931 3013 E. Fourth St.. Dayton. O. 
O'BRIAN, Rev. Wm. C. A.B. 1906 St. Mary's Church, Delaware, O. 
GRIFnX, Rev. Maurice P., Litt.B. 1904 13S24 Euclid Ave., East Cleveland. O. 
GOEBEL, Rev. Tiburtius A., A.B. 18S9 Portsmouth. O. A.M. 1895 
DUFFY. Rev. John E., A.B. 1923 St. Ann's Rectorj-, 1120 Horace St., Toledo. O. 
GALLAGHER. Rev. Robt. E., Litt.B. 1922 434 Western Ave., Toledo, O. 
HOUSER. C.S.C. Jos. F.. A.B. 1931 138 W. Marion Ave., Youngstown, O. 
OREGON 

BLACK, Rt. Rev. Msgr. J. H., el. 192T 344 Fifth St, Portland, Ore. 
BOYLE. C.S.C.. Rev. Joseph J.. LittB. 190S President, Columbia University, Portland, Ore. 
CLANCY, C.S.C.. Rev. Raymond. A.B. 1929 Columbia University', Portland. O. 
COYLE. C.S.a. Rev. Matthew A.. LittB. 1918 Columbia University, Portland, Ore. 
DAVIS, C.S.C.. Rev. Ernest A.. A.B. 1904 Columbia University, Portland, Ore. 
DELAUNAY, C.S.C.. Rev. John B. Columbia University, Portland, Ore. 
DUSr, C.S.C. Rev. Geo. L.. A.B. 1929. Columbia University, Mj^. 1934 Portland. Ore. 
EARLY, C.S.C.. Rev. Michael Jas.. A.B. 1917 Columbia TJniversitj', Portland, Ore. 
FINBAR. Brother, Ph.B.Ed. 1922, M.A. 1928 Columbia University, Portland. Ore. 
HOOYBOER, C.S.C, Rev. John J., A.B. 1930 Columbia University. Portland, Ore. 
KEHOE, C.S.C, Rev. Jas. P.. LittB. 1911 Columbia University, Portland. Ore. 
KELLY, C.S.C. Rev. Louis M.. LittB. 1907 Columbia University, Portland, Ore. 
MARGRAF, C.S.C, Rev. John, A.B. 1910 Columbia University, Portland, Ore. 
MCALLISTER, C.S.C. Rev. Chas, LittB. 1924 Columbia University, M.S. 1930 Portland. Ore. 
MCNAMEE, Rev. Ignatius E.. A.B. 1909 54 E. 11th St . Portland. Ore. 
MULCAIRE. C.S.C. Rev. Michael A.. Columbia University, A.B. 1917 Portland, Ore. 
MURPHY, Scv. E. P., el. 1926 1213 S. W. 14th Ave, Portland. Ore. 
NORBERT, C.S.C. Brother. A.B. 1925. Columbia University. M.S. 1929 Portland, Ore. 
QUINLAN. C.S.C. Rev. Michael A.. A.B. 1893. Columbia University, A.M. 1S97 Portland. Ore. 
SCHEBERLE, C.S.C. Rev. John W., A.B. 1929, MJV. 1934 Columbia University, Portland, Ore. 
SHEEHAN, C.S.C. Rev. Robt. J.. Columbia University, B.S.BioI. 1921 Portland. Ore. 
TOBIN, Bev. Thos. J., A.B. 1920 549 Sixth St., Portland. Ore. 
PENNSYLV-JUSIIA 

BREXNAN, Vincent P.. A.B. 1932 S t Vincent Seminary, Latrobe. Pa. 
CUNEO, O.S.B.. Rev. Edmund R.. M.S. 1934 St. Vincent College, Latrobe, Pa. 
DILLON, T.O.R., Re%-. Bernardino. A.B. 1913 Loretta, Fa. 
CCLHANE, C.S.C. Thomas J.. A.B. 1931 614 Green St., Williamsport, Fa. 
RHODE ISLAND 

CRAWLEV, Rev. Patrick J.. E.E. 19«S 546 Lonsdale Ave., Central Falls. R. I. 
SIULVEY, O.P.. Rev. C. M. SS Goddard St. Providence. R. I. 
NORJIAN, Rev. Henry A., os. 1903. el. 1920 155 Academy Ave.. Providence. It. I. 
SOUTH DAKOTA 

MONIGHAN, Rev. Francis P.. LittB. 1918 S t Mary's Church, Isabel, S. D. 
GOGGIX, Rev. James A. S t Patrick's Church. Montrose, S. D. 
SOBOLEWSKI. Rev. Wenzel A.. Litt.B. 1911 Spearflsh, S. D. 
ALEXANDER, C.S.C., Brother. St. Edward's University, Ph.B.Com. 1931 Austin, Texas 
BRO\VN, C.S.C., Rev. Francis A., A.B. 1917 S t Edward's University, Austin, Texas 
DRUSniEY, CS.C.. Rev. Frank E.. St. Edward's University Litt.B. 1923 Austin, Texas. 
EDWIN. CS.C, Brother, A.B. 1923, MJV. 1931 S t Edward's University, Austin, Texas 
FOIK. C.S.C, Rev. Paul J.. Ph.B. 1907 S t Edward's University. Austin, Texas 
FORRESTAL. CS.C. Rev. Peter P., A.B. 1911 St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas 
GALLAGAN, C.S.C. Rev. Jas. H.T. A.B. 1906 St. Mary's Rectory, Austin, "Texas 
HAGERTY. CS.C. Rev. ComeUus J_ A.B. '06 St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas 
HEISEB, C.S.C, Rev. Leo J., A.B. 1902 St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas 
MAGUIRE, C.S.C. Rev. Jos. A.. B.S. 1896 S t Edward's University. Austin, Texas 
MISCH, CS.C.. Rev. Edgar J.. LittB. 1910 St. Mary's Church, Austin, Texas 
MOLONY. C.S.C.. Rev. Wm. H.. LittB. 1907 S t Edward's University. Austin, Texas 
NORBERT, C.S.C. Brother. A.B. 1923 St Edward's University, M.S. 1929 Austin, Texas 
NORTON, CS.C. Rev. Jas. E.. A.B. 1929 S t Edward's UniversSy, Austin, Texas 
O'BRIEN, C.S.C. Rev. Jas.. LittB. 1913 S t Edward's University, Austin, Texas 
O'DONNELL, CS.C. Bev. Walter J.. LittB. 1906, AM. 1908, Ph.D. 1924 St. Edward's University, Austin. Texas 
O'HARA, C.S.C, Rev. Frank J., A.B. 1922 St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas 
PIEPER, C.S.C., Rev. Raymond J., A.B. 1924 S t Edward's University, Austin, Texas 
WELSH, C.S.C. Rev. Geo. J.. A.B. 1929 St. Edward's University. Austin, Texas 
FUHRMANN, O.S.B.. Rev. Jos.. M.A. 1923 Corpus Christi College. Corpus Christl. Te-x. 
KEMPER, Rev. Heno" M.. LittB. 1903. Notre Dame Institute, A3I. 1906 Kerrville. Texas 
MAGUIRE, Rev. Patrick. MJV. 1920 S t Vincent De Paul Church. Murray. Utah 
VERMONT 

HOWARD. Bev. Edw.. A.B. 1912 38 Carver St.. Brandon, V t 
BARRY, Rev. Patrick A.. A.B. 1912 Ludlow. V t 
WASHINGTON 

LEO, F.S.C.H., Brother Michael, MJL 1932 1003 Marion St , Seattle. Wash. 
^VISCONSIN 

THORNTON. M.B.. Rev. F. B.. A.B. 1931 715 High St, Chippeiva Falls. Wis. 
GOIUILEY, Rev. Geo. E.. A.B. 1904 Hales Corner. Wis. 
THEOPHIDUS, C.S.C. Brother. MJ.. 1924 S t Charles Boys' School, Milwaukee, Wis. 
AUREUUS, C.S.C, Brother, B.C.S. 1933 Sacred Heart College, Watertown. Wis. 
BERXARDINE. C.S.C, Brother. A.B. 1933 Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wis. 
DEVERS, C.S.C.. Rev. John. os. 1910. eL 1922 Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wis. 
ERNEST. CS.C. Brother. Ph.B.Bd. 1925 Sacred Heart College. Watertown. Wis. 
HAGGERTY, C.S.C.. Rev. Patrick J., LittB. 1916, AM. 1921 St. Bernard Parish, Watertown, Wis. 
JACOB, C.S.C. Brother. A'.B. 1929 Sacred Heart Postulate. Waterto^vn. Wis. 
THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNI DIEECTOEY 
KILIAN, C.S.C.. Brother, B.S. 1929 Sacred Heart College, V^ateriovm, "Wis. 
FANELU. C.S.C., Rev. Salrator P., Ciaplain. Li"tt.B. 1914 St. Charles Boys' Home, Wanwatosa, Wis. 
•\VYOMING 
MULLEN, -Rev. John II, A.B. 1911 
B. 7th St., Casper, Wyo. 
CANADA 
McAVOV, C.S.C, Kev. Bernard L.. A.B. 1929 St. Michael's University. Toronto. Canada 
WARD, C.S.C., Rev. IXK) B., A.B. 1923 Greyfriars. Iffley Road, Oxford, Ensland 
PUTZ, Louis, A,B. 1932 Grand Seminairc. 158 Lcon-Ballee, Mans, Sarthe, France 
PASZEK, C.S.C.. Rev. Hilary J.. A.B. 1922 Ecole Notre Dame, D'Orveau Nyoiseau, Par Seffre, France 
ANDREW. C.S.C., Brother, Ph.B.E. 1924 Dacca, Bengal, India 
BROOKS, C.S.C., Rev. C.P., A.B. 1912 Catholic 3Iisston. Dacca, Bengal, India 
CROWLEY. C.S.C., Et. Rev. Timothy J.. Catholic Mission. A.B. 1902 Cathedral Dacca. Bengal. India 
PAINEAtr, C.S.C.. Kev. Louis H.. A.B. 190S Catholic Mission. Padrishibpur, Bengal, India 
GRANER, C.S.C. Rev. Lawrence L., A.B. 19'>4 Dacca, East Bengal, India 
HARRINGTON, C.S.C.. Rev. John J.. Dacca, Bengal. India A.B. 1929 
HENNESSY. C.S.C., Rev. John J., A.B. 1902 The Jungles. Dacca, Bengal, India 
JOHN, C.S.C.. Brother, B.S. 193J St. Gregory's High School. Dacca. Bengal, India 
KANE, C.S.C.. Rev. John W.. B.S. 192G Dacca, East Bengal, India 
HacGRECOR, C.S.C.. Rev. Donald P.. St. John's Apostolic School. A.B. 1919 Dacca, Bengal, India 
MASSART, C.S.C, Rev. Edw., A.B. 1926 Bishop's Souse, Ramna Dacca. India 
NEIL, C.S.C., Brother, A.B. 1925 S t Gregory's High School. Hashnadad. Dacca Dt, Bengal, India 
NOHCKAOER, CS.C., Rev. Maurice J. 83 Municipal House Rd., A.B. 1914 Dacca, Bengal, India 
RICK. C.S.C.. Rev. Joseph G.. LitLB. 1924 Ranikong Mission. Bagmara P.O., Mymensingh Dt. Bengal, India 
SHEA. C.S.C, Rev. Paul, A.B. 1927 Dacca, Bengal, India 
VOOEOE, C.S.C.. Rev. Jos. F.. A.B. 1929 Dacca, Bengal. India 
WALTER, CS.C. Brother. LittB. 1915 83 Municipal OiTice Rd.. Dacca. Bengal, India 
WETZEL, CS.C, Rev. Edw. H., A.B. 1925 Bishop's House, Ramna P.O., Dacca Dt , Bengal, India 
LANE, Loras T.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1932 North American College. Rome. Italy 
HOTSETT, C. Boorke. A.B. 1931 North American College. Rome. Italy 
RANSING, CS.C.. B. E.. A.B. 1931 19 Via dei Cappuccini. Rome, Italy 
BERCHMANS, F.S.C, Brother, M.S. 1923 Christian Brothers of Ireland. S t John's, Newfotmdland 
CLEMENTE. O.P.. Rev. Vitalis. os. 1924 Cole^o Seminario de San Jacinto. Tuguegaro, Cagayan, P. I. 
LIESEWSKI, C.S.C. Rev. Stanislaus. c-o Prof. Frank Dieda. A.B. 1920 Ul. Mazowiecka 2. Krakow, Poland 
JONES, Rev. Leo J., A.B. 1918 Catholic Mission, Pingnaro, Kwangsi, South China 
NOTRE DAME 
AGATHO, CS.C, Brother, LittB.'23. M-A.'31 Duiarie, Notre Dame. Ind. 
BENAGLIA, CS.C, Rev. Geo. P.. A.B. 1928 Holy Cross Seminary. Notre Dame. Ind. 
BOLAND, CS.C. Rev. Francis J., A.B. 1918 Notre Dame, Ind. 
BOLGER, CS.C, Rev. Wm. A.. A.B. 1907 Notre Dame, Ind. 
BR.4NNIGAN, CS.C., Rev. Joseph. A.B. 1923 S t Joseph's Farm, Notre Dame, Ind. 
BRENDAN, C.S.C, Brother, A.B. 1925 c-o Ave Maria. Notre Dame, Ind. 
BBENNAN. CS.C, Rev. Thos. J., A.B. 1923 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame. Ind. 
BBOUGHALL. C.S.C. Rev. Laurence Main Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind. 
BURKE, C.S.C., Rev. Eugene P.. A.B. 1906 Dillon Hail. Notre Dame. Ind. 
BURKE, CS.C. Rev. Joseph H, A.B. 1904 Community Infirmary, Notre Dame, Ind. 
BURKE, C.S.C.. Kev. Thomas E.. A.B. 1907 Notre Dame. Ind. 
BURKE, C.S.C. Kev. Wm. J.. A.B. 1913 Mission House. Notre Dame. Ind. 
BURNS. CS.C, Rev. J. A.. A.B. 1888, Presbytery. AM. 189S, LL.D. 1917 Notre Dame, Ind. 
CANNON, C.S.C. Rev. D. J.. Spec 1925 Community House, Notre Dame, Ind. 
CAREY. C.S.C, Rev. Wm.. A.B. 1911 Badin Hall. Notre Dame. Ind. 
CAKRICO. C.S.C. Rev. J. L.. LittB., 1903 Notre Dame, Ind. 
CARROLL. CS.C. Rev. Patrick J.. Notre Dame. Ind. LittB. 1911 
CAVANAUGH, C.S.C.. Rev. Francis. A.B. 1927 Dillon Hall. Notre Dame. Ind. 
CAVANAUGH, C.S.C. Rev. John J.. Dillon Hall. Ph.B.Com. 1923. M.A. 1927 Notre Dame. Ind. 
CAVANAUGH, Rev. John W.. LittB. 1890. Notre Dame. Ind. LL.D. 1921 
COLLENTINE, C.S.C.. Rev. Ricliard J.. Holy Cross Seminary, A.B. 1909 Notre Dame. Ind. 
COLUJIBA, C.S.C., Brother. B.S. 1933 Duiarie. Notre Dame. Ind. 
CONDON, CS.C. Kev. Wm. H. Notre Dame, Ind. 
CONNERTON, C.S.C., Rev. James W.. Moreau Seminary, LittB. 1920 Notre Dame, Ind. 
CONNOR. C.S.C.. Eev. Wm. K. S t Mary's College. Notre Dame. Ind. 
CORCORAN, CS.C. Rev. Joseph J., A.B. 1930 Notre Dame, Ind. 
CRADDICK. C.S.C.. William T.. BJirch. 1930 Moreau Seminary. Notre Dame. Ind. 
CUNNINGHAM. C.S.C., Rev. Wm. Francis. Notre Dame, Ind. A.B. 1907 
CYRIL, C.S.C. Brother. B.S. 1932 Dujarie. Notre Dame. Ind. 
DcGRACE, CS.C™ Rev. Norman J.. A.B. 1923 IGssion House. Notre Dame, Ind. 
DOLAN, Eev. Patrick H.. A.B. 1915. Mission House. M..A. 1934 Notre Dame. Ind. 
DONAHUE, C.S.C.. Very Rev. Jas. W.. Notre Dame. Ind. LittB. 1907 
DOREMUS, C.S.C. Bev. Chas. L.. .\.B. 1906 Notre Dame. Ind. 
DUFFY, CS.C., Kev. Thos. C. A,B, 1920 Mission House, Notre Dame, Ind. 
EPHKEM, CS.C. Brother. M.A. 1924 Notre Dame. Ind. 
FARLEY, C.S.C.. Rev. John. os. 1898 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
FIEDLER, C.S.C, Rev. J. H.. M.A. 1932 Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, Ind. 
FINNEGAN, CS.C. Rev. Edw. J.. A.B. 1906 Notre Dame, Ind. 
FITZGERALD, CS.C, Rev. Edv. R.. Mission House. A.B. 1930 Notre Dame. Ind. 
FLOOD, C.S.C.. Eev. Leo F., A.B. 1924 Mission House. Notre Dame. Ind, 
FLYNN. CS.C, Rev. Chas. J.. LittB. 1915 Mission Band, Notre Dame, Ind. 
FOGABTY, C.S.C„ Rev. Jas. A.. A.B. 1922 Freshman Hall. Notre Dame, Ind. 
GALLAGHER, CS.C. Rev. Jos. Community House. Notre Dame. Ind. 
GAKVIN, C.S.C.. Rov. Jos. N., A.B. 1929 Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, Ind. 
GASSENSMITH, C.S.C, Kev. Fred M.. Dillon Hall. Litt.B. 1917 Notre Dame. Ind. 
GLDECKERT, C.S,C., Eev. Senxr G.. Notre Dame, Ind. .\.B. 1916 
GORMAN. C.S.C. Eev. Leo. A.B. 1926 Notre Dame, Ind. 
RAMEL, CS.C„ Rev. Chas. F.. A.B. 1926 Notre Dame, Ind. 
HART. C.S.C., Rev. Jos. E.. A.B. 1924 Mission House. Notre Dame. Ind. 
HAVEY, C.S.C. Rev. Wm. Cornelius. Notre Dame. Ind. A.B. 1920 
BEBERT, Rev. Peter Edw.. A.B. 1910. A.M. 1920, Ph.D. 1924 Notre Dame. Ind. 
HOLDERITH. CS.C. Rev. Geo. L.. A.B. 1918, Morrisscy Hall, M..-V. 1932 Notre Dame. Ind. 
HOPE. CS.C. Rev. Arthur B.. LittB. 1920 Main Bldg.. Notre Dame. Ind. 
HYACINTH, CS.C., Brother, A.B. '25. M.A. '33 Community House. Notre Dame. Ind. 
ILL, CS.C, Eev. Bernard J., el. 1919. Notre Dame. Ind. 
IRVING, aS.C , Eev. Thos. P.. A.B. 1904 Notre Dame, Ind. 
JOHNSON, CS.C, Rev. Norman J.. A.B. 1928. M..4. 1934 Notre Dame. Ind. 
JUSTIN, Ca' C Brother, A.B. 1932 Brownson Hall. Notre Dame, Ind. 
JUSTINIAN, CS.C, Brother, B.S. 1934 Bro^vnson Hail. Notre Dame, Ind. 
KELLY, C.S.C., Eev. John C . A.B. 1913 212 Lyons Hall. Notre Dame. Ind. 
KING, &S. C Kev. Robert, A.B. 1930 Notre Dame, Ind. 
KLINE. CS.&, Eev. James, A.B. 1922 S t Edward's Hall. Notre Dame. Ind. 
LAHEY. &S.C Eev. Thomas A.. LittB. 1911 AJU. 1917. Ph.D. 1923 Notre Dame. Ind. 

THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUMNI DrRECTOEY 
LAHJE, CS.C. Rev. John J., A.B. 1930 Notre Dame, Ind. 
LAMGE, C.S.C., Bev. Bernard H.. LittB. 1912. M.A. 1924, B.S. 1926 Notre Dame, Ind. 
LYONS, &S.C., Ecv. William J, A.B. 1917 St. Edward's Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
MacCAULEY, C.S.C., Rev. Hash B.. A.B. '06 Commnnity House, Notre Dame, Ind. 
MacNAJIARA, Rev. John A., A.B., 1897 Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. 
MALONEY, C.S.C., Rev. Wra. A., OS. 1905 Main Bids. Rm. 318, Notre Dame, Ind. 
SIARR, C.S.a, Rev. George J., A.B. 1901 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
MCALLISTER, C.S.C, Rev. Joseph A.B. 1923 Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, Ind. 
McAVOY, aS.C., Rev. Thos, A.B. '25,A-M. 1930 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
MCDONALD, C.S.C.. Rev. James H., .4.B. 1919 Morrissey Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
McELHONE, &S.C., Kev. James P.. A.B. 1911 Holy Cross Seminary Notre Dame, Ind. 
McGINN, C.S.C., Kev. John C, A.B. 190G Notre Dame, Ind. 
McKEON, aS.a , Rev. Frederick T., A.B. 1902 Notre Dame, Ind. 
McNASIARA, C.S.C., Rev. Wm. M. A.B. 1917 Corby Hall, Notre Dame, Ind 
MEAGHER. aS.C., Rev. Geo. T.. A.B. 1930 Notre Dame, Ind. 
MEHLING, aS.a , Bev. Theo. J., A.B. 1929 Moreau Seminary, Notre Dame, Ind. 
JHLTNER, &S.C., Bev. Chas C, Ph.B. 1911 Notre Dame, Ind. 
MOORE, C.S.C., Rev. Philip S.. A.B. 1924 Morrissey Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
MUCKENTHALEB. C.S.C.. Rev. Jos. A.B. '23 Badin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
JIUBPHY. C.S.C., Kev. Tim. os 1901. el 1923 St. Mari's College, Notre Dame, Ind. 
MURRAY, C.S.C., Kev. Bay. W. LL.B. 1918 
•Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
NIEUWLAND, &S.C., Rev. Julius. A.B. 1899, Notre Dame, Ind. Sc.D. 1912 
NILUS, C.S.C., Brother, B.S. 1931 St. Joseph's Farm, Notre Dame, Ind. 
NORBIS, &S.C., Rev. Ray. M., A.B. 1923 Howard Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
O'DONNELL. C.S.C.. Bev. J. Hugh. Litt.B 'IC Vice-President. Univ. of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 
O'HABA, C.S.C., Rev. John F., Ph.B. 1911 President, Univ. of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Ind. 
OSBOKN, C.S.C., Phidell T., A.B. 1933 Moreau Seminary, Notre Dame, Ind. 
O'SHE.4, C.S.C.. Rev. Denis A., LittB. 1910 Community Iniirmari*, Notre Dame, Ind. 
OSWALD, CS.C, Bev. Mathias J. A.B. 1901 Moreau Seminary, Notre Dame, Ind. 
O'TOOLE. CS.C. Re%-. Christopher. A.B. 1929 Moreau Seminary, Notre Dame, Ind. 
QUINLAN, CS.C. Rev. Jas. J.. Litt3. 1908 Lyons Hall, Notre Dame. Ind. 
REYNOLDS. aS.C, Rev. J. J., A3. 1917 St. Edward's Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
RICHARDS, CS.C. Rev. Thos. D., A.B. 1922 Mission House. Notre Dame, Ind. 
RIGLEY, CS.C., Rev. Morris S., A.B. 1927 Freshman Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
RITER, aS. C Rev. Regis H.. A.B. 1929 Notre Dame. Ind. 
RYAN. C.S.C., Rev. John M. Litt.B. 1906. Ph.D. 1925 Lyons Hall. Notre Dame, Ind. 
SCANDLON, C.S.C. Rev. Wm. S. A.B. 1930 Notre Dame. Ind. 
SCHULTE, CS-C Rev. Fred J., A.B. 1927 Mission Band. Notre Dame. Ind. 
SCHUMACHER. CS.C., Rev. Matthew A.. A.B. 1899. Ph.D., St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind. 
STACK, C.S.C., Rev. James J.. Litt.B. 1913 Notre Dame. Ind. 
STEINER. CS.C. Rev. Thomas A. C.E. 1899 Notre Dame. Ind. 
SULLIVAN. C.S.C, Rev. Lawrence. A.B. 1930 Mission House, Notre Dame, Ind. 
TBAHEY, CS.C., Rev. James D., A.B. 1930 Notre Dame, Ind. 
WARD, CS.C, Rev. Leo L.. Ph.B. Joum. '20 Lyons Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
WENNINGER. CS.C, Rev. Francis J., LittB. 1911, M.S. 1917 Notre Dame, Ind. 
HONORARY DEGREE HOLDERS 
Unless otherwise listed, the award was the Doctorate of Laws, LL.D. (* Indicates Recipient Deceased) 
•GREGG,
 David L. 

•JONES,
 Gardner 


1873 

•CONYNGHA.M,
 David P. 

•HENGESCH,
 Rev. Dominic 

1S74 

•DODGE,
 Augustus Caesar 

1873 

•GARCIA,
 Joseph Emmanuel 

1876 

•BBODER,
 Jr., Paul 

•ONAHAN,
 William J. 

1877 

•DAILY,
 Bernard B. 

•HUBD,
 Hon. Frank H. 

•LY'ONS,
 Joseph A. 

1878 

•EWING,
 Philemon V. 

ISSO 

•DUNNE,
 Edmund F. 

ISSI 

•CLEARY,
 William W. 

•O'REILLY,
 John Boyle 1SS2 

•PIATT.
 Colonel Donn 

•TERRAZAS,
 Luis 

•LASIBING,
 Bev. A. A., AJI. 

18S4 Dc OCA, Rt. Bev. I. Montes 

•WEBB,
 Benedict J. 1886 

•BBOWNSON.
 Major Henry F. GIBBONS, John 

•LAMBING,
 Bev. A. A. 1887 

aiBEY, TOIliam F., AJL 1888 

•HOYNES,
 William CARR,. Rev. P. F., A.1L 

1889 


•DALY",
 Augustine 

•DANA,
 Charles A. 

•WOLFF,
 George Dering 


MCCARTHY, Edward. M.S. 
1890 BARRY, Patrick T., A.M. LISCOjmE. Frederick J.. D.Mus, 
1891 

•CRONIN,
 Rev. Patrick 

•ROCHE,
 James Jeffrey 

•CONWAY,
 Rev. J., A.M. 

1892 LAMBERT, Rev. Louis A. 

•OCHTERLONG.
 (MJ).) John A. 

•MULLEN.
 <M.D.) Ale-tander. A3L 

1893 


•HOWARD,
 Timothy B. 

•HUBBARD.
 Lucius 

•SETON.
 R t Rev. Msgr. 

•SCALES.
 Frank 

1894 HAWLEY. Rev. Ernest A3L 

•McSHANE.
 Rev. Hugh. AM. 

1895 (Observance of Golden Jabilee) 


•BYRNE,
 William A. 


THE NOTEE DAME ALUJINI DffiECTORY 
DILLON, William 

•FELLOWS,
 John E. 

•GREEN,
 Edward L. 

•GLADDEN.
 Rev. Washington 


•HESING,
 Washington 

•M0LLANEY,
 Jtev. John 

•SIATTHEWS,
 Claude 

•MOONEY,
 Very Rev. J. 

•JOHNSTON,
 Richard Malcom 

•McSHANE,
 Rev. HuBh O'G. 

•McCABE,
 Rev. Luke 

•NUGENT,
 Rev. Joseph F. 

•O'BBIEN.
 E t Rev. Francis O'HALLEY, Austin 

•RANDALL,
 James Ryder 

•SPADNHOKSr,
 Henrj- J. 

•SmCENBERGER.
 F. 

•WALKER,
 John Brisben 

•WATHEN,
 (M.D.) W. H. 

CLAXTON, William E.. A.M. CONNELLY, Thomas A., AM. DESMOND. J. HumpTirey, .^.M. 

•MITLHOLLAND.
 Gen. St. Clair. A.M. REILLT, L. W., A.M. 

I89C 


•DORNEY,
 Rev. Maurice J. 

•MORAN.
 Thomas A. 

DINNEN, (M.D.), James M., A.M. WILSTACH, Jos. W.. A.M. 

•BASTRUP,
 Louis, LLJU. 

1898 


•DODGE,
 James S., LLJit. 

1900 


•BAAKT,
 Rev. Peter A. 

•BREEN,
 William P. 

1903 COOHES, (MJ).) Jfartin F. 

•GEARIN,
 John H. 

•CONSTANTIDS,
 (Graham) Bro. 

•HICKEY.
 EL Eev. T. P. 


190S KAVANAGH, Marcus A. 
1906 

•ALLPOBT,
 (M.D.) Frank 

•MOYEB,
 (M.D.) Hiirold N. O'CONNELL, Eev. John T. SHEEDY, Rev. Morsan Madden 

•STAFFORD,
 Eev. D. J. 

1907 KELLEY, Most Eev. Francis C. 

•SMITH,
 Eev. John Talbot 


1908 
•HEALY, Brev. Brie Gen. R. W. JENNINGS, Eev. Gilbert P. 
NEILL, Charles P. 

•O'BRIEN, James B. 
1909 O'REILLY, Very Rev. T. C. TAYLOR, Hon. Hannis 
1910 COYLE, Eev. James PACE, Eev. Edivard A. 

•MOSELEY,
 Hon. Edward A. 

•MARSHALL,
 Hon. Thomas E. 

•PAM,
 Max 

19II 


•ELLIOTT,
 Rev. Walter 

•HARMON,
 Hon. Judson FITZPATRICK, E t Hon. Sir Charles 

•NELSON,
 William Rockhill 


WALSH, James Joseph, ScD. 

1912 HOWARD, Most Eev. Francis W. KERBY, Eev. William J. NIEUWLAND, Eev. Julius A.. C.S.C., Sc.D. 
1913 

•BURROWS.
 Hon. Julius C. COX, Hon. James 

1914 


•GAVISK,
 Rev. Francis H. VAN ANTWERP, Eev. Francis Jos. 

•GUENDLING,
 Eev. John H 

FINN, Eev. William J. 

•DINNEN,
 Eev. John R. 

•HICKEY,
 Eev. William 


RANSDALL, Hon. Joseph E. 
WATSON. Hon. James E. 
McMANUS, Theodore F. 
1915 

•CARROLL,
 Eev. John 

FITZGERALD. John Francis NOLL, Most Rev. John F. 

•WOODJIAN,
 Eev. Clarence Eugene SCOTT, Joseph 

1916 GALLAGHER, Eev. Philip 

•MARIN,
 Eev. Francisco 

•MULDOON,
 Et. Eev. Peter James BAFFO, Eev. Charles Peter 

•WADE,
 Martin Joseph WOOD, Ed»-in Orrin 


1917 (Observance of Diamond Jubilee) 

•BARTH,
 Eev. Francis 

•BICKERSTAFFE-DREW,
 Et. Eev. Msgr. 


BRYAN, William Lowe 
BURNS, Eev. James Aloysius. C.S.C. 

•CBARTRAMD.
 Et Rev. Joseph DALY, Tliomas Augustine DESMOND, Humphrey 

•HOWLING,
 Hon. Victor J. 

•FIDELIS,
 Very Rev. (James K. Stone) GOODRICH, Hon. James Putman HUTCHINS, Harry Burns UNDSEY. Judge Ben MACMANUS, Seumas MARTIN, Bev. Charles Alfred McCABE, Eev. Francis Xavier 

•McDERMOTT,
 Hon. Edward John O'CONNELL, Eev. Cornelius Jos. O'HARA. Most Eev. Edward Vincent O'BAGAN, Thomas 

•O'NEILL,
 Eev. Arthur Barry B£ID, George Ambrose Bernard RYAN, Eev. John Augustine SPEARMAN, Frank WALSH, David Ignatius WALSH, Thomas ZAHH, Albert Francis 

•ZAHM,
 Rev. John Augustine. C.S.C. 

1918 BLESSING, Very Rev. Peter Edward CRAIG, Hon. Charles Curtiss DE BASQUE, Very Eev. Urban 

•HURLEY.
 Hon. Edward Nash JOLLY, Mrs. Ellen Eyan ROY, Pierre Georges SAUVAGE, Rev. Georges Michael, C.S.C. 

1919 BONINE, Dr. Frederick Nathaniel GERRER. Rev. Dom. Gregory 

•HEATH,
 Dr. Edwin Euthvcn 


1920 BLUNT. Eev. Hugh F, CURLEY, E t Eev. Michael LAVELLE, E t Rev. Msgr. Michael J. O'BRIEN, Hon. Morgan Joseph 
1921 CAVANAUGH, Rev. John William. C.S.C HAYES, Prof. Carlton Joseph SHANNON, Rev. Thomas Vincent 
1922 GRIFFIN, Eev. Maurice Francis 
•UPPINCOTT, Charles Augustus MIODLESHULTE, Wilhelm 
1923 BLAYNEY, Dr. Thomas L. KIBWIN. Msgr. James M. SEEBIRT. Eli F. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI DIRECTORY 
•WIGHTSIAN,
 Charles A. 

1924 WILE, Frederic William 

•BARNABAS,
 Brother, F.S.C. CRAH, Ralph Adams CONROY, R t Rev. 3. H., D.D. 

•ERSKINE,
 Albert Russel 

•FERRIS,
 Hon. Woodbridee N. 

1925 McDEVITT, Et. Rev. Philip B., B.C. . 

•MOORE,
 Edmond H. GUILDAY, Rev. Peter. Ph.D. STEHLE, Rt. Rev. Aurelius. O.S.B. 


1926 TDRNER. R t Rev. WilUam K , D.D. 
•WOOTEN, Hon. Dudley Goodall GRAHAM, Ernest R. msULL, Samuel 
1849 GILLESPIE, Rev. Henry N.. ((CSC) A.B. GREGG, David i., Ii.D. JOKES, Gardner, LL.D. SHORTIS, Rev. Richard. (CSC) A.B. 
1852 GLENXON, Rev. Patrick, A.B. KILROY, Very Rev. Edmund, A.B.,Aja., 1859 
1834 O'LEARY, Denis, A3I. 
1836 NELSON, William R. os., LL.D. 1911 O'CALLAGHAN, Rev. Euscne M., A.B.. AJI. 1839 
1859 CARROLL, Rev. Phillip, A.B. HEALY. Gen. Robert W., A.B., A.M. 1865, LL.D. 1908 O'BRIEN, James B., A.B., A.M. 1876, I.LJ3. 1908 
1860 COLLINAS, John, A.B. DILLON, Rev. James, CCSC) os. RUNNION, James B., A.B., A.M. 1864 
1861 CLAGETT, Bernard J., El. FITZPATRICK, Michael, Com. 
1862 BROWN, Rev. Michael B., A.B. HOWARD, J. M., A.B., A.M. 1868, LL.B. 1883 FLAHERTY, James A. 
1927 GANNOK, R t Rev. John Mark TALLEY, Hon. Alfred J. SCULLEN, Rev. William Aloysius TIVNEN, Dr. Richard J. 
1928 

•FINNIGAN, R t Rev. George Jos.. C.S.C..D.D. 
MARTIN, Rev. William B. 
CARNEY, Matthew J. 
KELLEV, Edward J. 
•O'SHAUGHNESSY, Francis 
1929 CROWLEY, Patrick E. HOFF, Very Rev. Norbert C, S.T.L, Ph.D. DONOVAN, Col. William J. 
1930 KELLY. Dennis Francis BURKE, Rev. John Joseph, C.S.P. 
DECEASED MEMBERS (By Classes) 
HOWARD, Timothy E., A.B., A.M. 1864, LL.B. 1873, LL.D. 1893 
LYONS, Joseph A., A.B., A.M. 1864 
1864 BAASEN, Michael A.. A.B., AM. 1863 HEALY, Joseph, A.B., A.M. 1866 McNALLY, Edward A., A.B., A.M. 1866 SPILLARD, Rev. Daniel J.. (CSC) A.M. 1864 STACE, Arthur J.. A.B., AJI. 1866, C.E. 1880 
1865 BRODER, Paul Jr., A.B., AM. 1866. LL.D. 1S76 BROWN, Edward M., A.B., A3I. 1867 CAMPION, Rev. M., A.B., A.M. 1873 CASSIDY, Dr. John, B.S., M.S. 1872 CORBY, Michael T., A.B., AJI. 1867 CORCORAN, Thomas, A.B., A.M. 1867 DILLON, Rev. Patrick, (CSC) os. DINNEN, Rev. John R., A.B., LL.D. 1914 DDNLAP, John C. A.B. FLYNN, Rev. John, A.B., AM. 1868 LYNCH, Brie. Gen. Wm., A.B. 
1866 CARLIN, Dr. John Joseph, A.B.. AM. 1868 DALY, Dr. Thomas A.. A.B., AM. 1869 IVERS, William J., A.B., A3r. 1868, LI,.B. 1874 KRCLL, John B., A.B. 
1867 BLECKaiAN, Rev. John G., A.B., A.M. 1869 CONNOLLY, Rev. Martin, A.B. 
BOWERS, CUinde C. CHESTERTON. Gilbert Keith 
mt 

MCDONALD. Ansns D. WILSON. William Francis MCCUTCHEON, John Itnney 
CASSIDY, Host Rev. James E. GRACE, Sfrgios P. YOBNG, Owen D. CARMODY. Martin Henry 
1»U 

COUGHUN. Rev. Charles Edward 
McNUTT, Paul Vories 
MARCONI, Guslielmo 
1934 

HcNAMARA. Most Rev. John Michael, DJ). 
GOLDBLATT, Maurice Henry 
HULL, Cordell 
WALKER, Frank Comeford 
DECHANT, Peter M.. 8,8.. M.S. 1872 McKERNAN, Joseph, B.S. MESSHAN, Rev. Anthony, A.B., AJL 1869 
O'CONNELL. Rev. John A. (CSC) A.B., AJf. 
1869 

TAMMANY, Ansustine E., A.B. 
1868 

COLUNS, Daniel H., A.B. 
COONEY, Rev. Peter P. (CSC) EI. 
FITZGIBBON, John J., A.B. 
JOHNSON. William Tell. A.B.. AJC 1870 
LAUTH, John P., A.B. 
McBRIDE, James K, B.S., U.S^ 1871 
VAGNIEK, Rev. Thomas L (CSC) El. 
VONDONHOFF, Dr. Edward T., B.S.. M.S. 
1872 

lat* CUNNEA. James, AS., B.S. 1869, AM. 1872 
GIRAC, Masmilian, El. 
KEELER. Hiram B., B.S.. M.S. 1873 
McCLAIN. William P., A.B. O'REILLY, James A., A.B., AJJ. 1871. U..B. 1881 VONWELLEB. Carl. A.B. 
187* 

ARRINGTON. AUred W.. A3 . 
CLARKE. Rev. Dennis, A3. , H.S. 1872, AM. 
1874 

GEARIN, John M., B.S., H.S. 18T4, IXJ). 
1903 

HALUNAN, Rev. Michael eL 
MILLER, rthomas B., AJB. 
WALDO, William, A.B. WALSH, Eev. Thomas K, A3I. 
1871 FITZPATBICK, Patrick, os. HcGARTHT, Dr. Enfus H., A.B., A.M: 1874 REILLY, Andrew J.. LL-B. TONG, Lucius G., LL.B. ZAHH, Vciy Rev. John, (CSC) A.B., A.M. 1873, LL-D. 1917 
1872 IRELAND, Thomas A., A.B. SLVHONBY, ICchacI M.. A.B. McHUCH, John K, A.B., AJU. 1874 
O'JIAHONEY, Thomas F., B.S.. A.B. 1873, M.S. 1874, AM. 1875 O'BOUBKE, Her. William, el. RIOPELLE, Cfande N., eL 
1873 BOISBAUHE, Alphtonsus, A.B. CO^•YNGHAM, David P„ LL.D. DUM)ON, Thomas J., B.S. FLANIGAN, Thomas, A.SL FOOTE, Mark JL, A.B., AJiL 1875 
HENGESCB, Rev. Dominic, LL.D. HOGAX, Davis J.. A.B.. AM. 1875 HcCORlDCK, John D., B.S., M.S. 1874 McjnCHAEL, William C, LL.B. O'CONNELL, Patrick J., B.S. TONG, Oliver J., os. 

WHITE, Dr. Thomas P., B.S., A.B. 1874. A.1L 
1892 

1S74 GALLERY, James D., os., e). 1920 CLARKE, William J., A.B„ AJiT. 1876 
DAILEY, Charles A., B.S., M.S. 1876, A.M. 
1882 DODGE, Augustus C, LL.D. DODGE, Charles J., A.B. 
DODGE, William W.. B.S. HAYES, Louis S., A.B. StALONEY, Daniel E.. B.S.. M.S. 1876. LL.B. 
1878 NEY. John J., LL.B. OIUEARA, Patrick L., LL.B. O'SDLLIVAN, Patrick, os., eh 1911 STALEY, Robert W., A.B., AM. 1876 TIGHE, Rev. Dennis A., el. WALKER, Henry W., B.S. 1874 
1875 EDWARDS,, James F.. LI..B., AJL 1S83 nSHBDRN, J. E., OS. GARCIA, Joseph R, LL.D. MCLAUGHLIN, Kt. Rev. Msgr. Edward. A.B.. AM. 1895 MURPHY, Thomas J., B.S. WALTER, Charles W., A.B. 
1876 

CLEARY. William W., LL.D. CAREN, James, A.B., A.M. 1895 
CORBY. Rev. William, (CSC) os. DEHNER, Henry L., B.S. 
FITTE, Rev. Stanislaus, (CSC) el. EVANS, Dr. Benjamin L., B.S., M.S. 1SJ8 
GREGORI, Luisi, el. GILLEN, Rev. John J„ B.S. 
HARRINGTON, DJL, LL3 . GRIEB. Thomas H., B.S. 
McENIRY, Matthew J., LL.B. JOHNSON, Thomas M., A.B. A.M. 1892 
McNAMARA, Rev. Thomas, A.M. MONAHAN, Edward S., B.S. 
MILNER. Edgar A., B.S. ONAHAN, WilUam J., LL.D. 
O'KEEFE, Kev. John, (CSC) el. STOFFEL, Rev. Nicholas, (CSC) A.B., A.jr. 
O'REILLY, John B.. LL.D. 

1878 OTIS, Colonel Elmer A., el. 
SUGG, George F , B.S., M.S. 18S3 

BALL, William T., B.S., M.S. 1895 1882 
1877 
BKEEN, WilUam P., A.B., A.M. 1880, LL.D. 
1902 ERASTER. Rev. James J., A.B. 

COLESIAN, John, A.B., B.S. 1878. AJiL 1880. HAYES, Rev. William J., A.M. C.E. 1SS7 
HEALY. Michael F.. LL.B. COLOVIN, Rev. Patrick J.. (CSC) os. 
LUNDY, Dr. C. J.. A.M. DAILEY, Bernard B.. LLJ). 
McGORRISK, William B., B.S. EnTNG, John G., B.S., A.B. 1878, M.S. 1839, 
ORRICK, Eugene C. B.S.. M.S. 1SS4 

A.M. 1881 PIATT, Colonel Donn. LL.D. 
GLAVm. John, C.E. 

GIBBONS, John A.. A.M., LLJ). 1886 1883 
HOYNES, William J., A.B., LL.D. 1888 KUHN, Ferdinand, B.S.. M.S. 1SS5 
LAMBING, Bev. Andrew, A.M., LL.D. 1SS5 MALLOY, Dr. John J., A.B., A.M. ISSS KURD, Frank H., LL.D. 

LOGAN, Thomas C. LL.B. O'CONNOR, Bev. William J., A.B. 
JIOONEY, Very Sev. Nathan J.. B.S., AM. TERRAZAS, Louis, LL.D. 
1895 
OTTO, Carl, B.S. 

1884 WILE, David J., M.S. 
ALPHONSUS, Brother, (CSC) os., el. 192S 1878 
GALLAGHER. Francis W., A.B. EWING, Philemon B.. LL.D. 
EARLESS, W. W.. OS. KIBSCH, Rev. AleMnder. (CSC) M.S. 
OTIS, Kev. Elmer, B.S. McHUGH, Joseph P.. A.B.. AM.. ISSO 
TINLEY, Charles A., B.S. MORRISSEY, Very Bev. Andrew. (CSC) A.B. 1885 1879 CALLAGHAN. Thomas E., LL.B. BANNON, Michael W., LL.B. CLARKE, Francis T.. A.B. DECHANT, William L., B.S., M.S. 1895 CONWAY, James J., B.S.. LL.B. DOUGHERTY, Patrick J.. LL.B. FOGARTY, Edward J., os., el. 1025 HERTZOG. Ambrose J., A.B.. AM. 1886 PORTER, Caiaries F., B.S. McCUE, Martin J., B.S., M.S. 1S81, C.E. 1882 • PORTER, Henry P., B.S. MURPHY, William J., LL.B. REGAN. Rev. Martin J., (CSC) A.M. SHUGRUE, John J.. LL.B. SIEIS, Henry A., LL.B. SPALDING, Samuel P., LL.B. WEBB, Benedict J., IX.D. 
1886 

1880 ANCHETA, Joseph A., B.S., C.E. 1886. LL.B. 
CASTANEDO, Walter, os. 
1886 DONABOE, Daniel J.. LL.B. 
BROWNE, Augustus A., B.S.. M.S. 1869 DUNNE, Edmund F., LL.D. 
BROWNSON, Henry, LL.D. EGAN, Maurice F., AM. 
BURKE, Vernon 3., B.S., LL.B. I8S6 lONNEY, John P., B.S. 
BYRNES, Daniel, LL.B. McGRATH, Rev. John B., A.B., A.M. 1895 
CLAFFBY, Francis X., LL3 . SIMMS, Thomas, LL.B. 
CONLON, John H„ LL.B. 
DOLAN, Michael A., B.S. 
1881 EVERS. Rt. Rev. Luke, A.B., A.M. 1886 
BLOOSI, Francis W., A.B„ AJL 1884 GOULDING. Patrick, B.S., LL.B. 1886 
CLARKE, George E.. LL.B., A.B. 1886, AM. 1891 
KOUDELKA, Wenceslans, LL.B. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI DrRECTOEY 
LUHN, Dr. Henry B., Com. 
HATHES. Lafayette T.. A.B. 
HURDOCK, Samuel T., C.E. 
SAVIEBS, Colombus D., B.S. 
1833 BROWNSON, PhUIip. A.B. CARR, Rev. Patrick F.. A.M. CRAFT, Simon J., LittB. CRAIG, GeoZ£e H., A.B. FITZHARRIS, Rev. John, A.M. HANSARD, Thomns F., A.B. JIULKERX, Michael B., B.S. O'SULLIVAN, Rev. Timothy D., A.B. 
1889 BUNKER, Irvine L., os. CARTIER, "Wm. E., os. COOKE, Georce J.,, os. CUSACK, Col. J. K. B.S. DALY, Augustine, LL.D. DANA, Charles A., LLJ). HEPBURN, Joseph L.. os. O'DONNELL, James V., LL.B. WOLFF, George D., LL.D. 
1890 BARRETT, Rev. Dennis, A.B. BARRY, Patrick D., A. M. BLESSINGTON, Edward J., LL.B. BRANNICK, Henry P., C.E. BURNS, Joseph J., LL.B. GARFIAS, Karcio, C.E. HAGERTY, Prof. Clarence A.. B.S., M.S. 1893 HUGHES, Behi M., Litt.B. LARKIN, Arthur, C.E. LARKIN, William A., A.B. MACKEY, James H., C.E. McPHEE, William P., B.S., M.S. 1895 MORRISSON, Wm. J., B.S. PRICHARD, Henjy L., B.S. REYNOLDS, Michael L., C.E. SANFORD, Charles H., A.B. 
1891 BERRY, Joseph, LittB. BLACKIIAN, Wilbur P.. LL.B. 
BURGER. Rev. Clement. A.B., B.Mus. 1891. AJlt. 1S95 CASSIDY, Maurice J., LL.B. CAVANACGH, Charles F., A.B.. A.M. 1S95 CONWAY, Rev. John, AM. CRONIN, Rev. Patrick, LL.D. JOHNSON, Georso N., os., el. 1926 McCONOLOGUE, Thomas J., LL.B. MTcWILLLUIS, John C, LL.B. O'NEILL, C.S.C, Rev. Arthur B., A. M., LLJ). 1917 ROCHE, James J., LL.D. 
SULLIVAN, John B., LittB. 
1892 AHLRICH, Alvin, A.B. BRADY, James M., B.S. GILLON, Charles J. HUBBELL, Orrin Z., LL.B. JUST, C.S.C.. Rev. Joseph. A.B.. A.M. 189S KELLY, Kev. William J., AM. LASIBERT, Rev Louis A., LL.B. SIARRE, John B.. OS., el. 1926 MULLEN, Dr. Alexander J., AJI. MURPHY, Pierce A., C.E. O'BRIEN, William M.. B.S. OUCHTERLONY. Dr. John, LL.D. 1892 SINNOTT, Hon. Nicholas J., A.B. 1892 SULLIVAN, Owen W., C.E. 
1893 COMBE, Dr. Joseph. B.S.BioI. FITZGERALD, James J., Litt-B. HENLEY, James G., LL.B. HUBBARD, Lucius, LL.B. MtAULIFFE, Rev. James. A.B. McFADDEN. Martin C, LL.B.. LL.M. 1894 O'SHEA, Rev. John D.. A.B. SCALES. Frank. LLJ). SETON. Rt. Rev. Msgr. Robert LL.D. 
1894 CHIDESTEK, Abraham B., LL.B.. LL.M. 1895 FLANNEBY. John M.. C.E. GUTHRIE, Thomas F., os. JEWETT, Edward H.. B.S. KEARNEY, Dr. Joseph B., LittB. KELLY, James T., LL.B. KREIGHBAUM. Charles M.. LL.B. McKEE. Francis M.. LittB. 
McSHANE, Rev. Hugh O'Gara. A.M., LLJ). 1895 
ROBY, Edward M.. LL.B. 
SINNOTT, Roger B., LittB. 1S9J. LL.B. 1S94 
SMOGOR, Clement S., os., el. 1923 
1893 BRICK, Abraham L.. LL.M. BYRNE, William A., Ui.D. DEVANNEY, John A.. B.S. DILLON, William. LL.D. DINKEL, Nicholas S.. B.S. DDFFIELD, Francis E.. LL.B. FELLOWS, John R., LL.D, GLADDEN, Rev.. Washington. LL.D. GREENE. Edward L.. LL.D. HALLIGAN, Richard G.. LL.B. HESING, Washington, LLJ). JOHNSTON, Richard M., LL.D. UARR, WilUam W., B.S., C3l 1896 MATTHEWS, Claude, LLJ). 
McCABE. Rev. Luke V., LL.D. MILLER. Byell Tobias, LL.B., T.T,M. 1896 MOONEY. R t Iter. Joseph F., LI..D. MULCARE, Joseph K. os. MULHOLLAND. Gen. S t Clair, AM. JIULLANEY. Rev. John, LLJ). NUGENT, Rev. Joseph F., IJCD. O'BRIEN, R t Rev. Francis, LLJ). PRESTON, Newton A., Hns.B. RANDALL, James B., LLJ). REILLT, Louis W., AJI. 1895 SINGENBERGER. John. LLJ). SPAUNHORST, Henry J., T.T.D. WALKER. John B., LL.D. WATHEN, Dr. William H., LL.D. 
1896 BASTRUF, Louis L., T.LM. DORNEY, Rev. Maurice J., LL.D. GIBBONS, Dr. John Anton. U.S. 1896 MORAN, Thomas A., LLJ). SIURPHY, L t Colonel John B.. C.E, SHANNON, John G., A.B. SLEVIN. Dr. Richard S., A3 . WILSTACH. Joseph W.. AM. 
1897 BROWNE, James H., LL.B. CAVANAUGH, Thomas T., A.B. CONFER, Frands J., LL.B., LUil. 1893 FAGAN, William A., B.S3ioI. GOLDEN, Walter B., A.B. HANHAUSER, Andrew J., os. LANTRY, Jesse Wm.. A.B. tIAGBUDGR. Albert LL.B. REARDON, Rev. Patrick E., A.B. ROSENTHAL. Dr. Jacob, B.SJioL SCHRIER, C.S.C., Rev. John B. 
1898 DODGE, James Shaw, LLJU. DREHEB, Francis D» LL.B. HENNESSY, C.S.C., Bcv. Thomas, AS . O'SIALLEY, Frank Ward, os., el. 1927 O'SULLIVAN, R t Rev. Msgr. S.J. PIQUETTE, Charles J., B.S. POWERS, Dr. Michael R.. LittB. WURZER, P. Henry, LL.B. 
1899 BREHSIER, Charles N.. os. CORCORAN, Patrick J., LL.B., LLM. 1900 DELANEY, Eugene A., C.E. DOWD, John J., LittB. FENNESSET, Dr. John F., A3 . GE0GHE6AN, Walter H., C R GRADY, Dr. Wm., P., B.S. HALEY, Joseph H., LL3 . 
HOBAN, Thomas M„ LI^B., I.L3I. 1900 
PICKETT, Stephan B., LL.B. 
PULSKASIP, Edward H.. M.E. 
TKAREY. C.S.C.. Eer. James J., A.B. 
1900 BAART. Eev. Peter A,, LL-D. 
BYRNE, Rev. John M.. A.B. 
DWAN. Rev. Patrick J., A.B. 
FOCABTY, James P., LL.B. 
FORBING, John W.. B.S.Chcro. 
GDILFOYLE, William B., LL.B. 
LODGHBAN, John J.. OS., cl. 1926 
McGINNIS, Eev. James H., A.B. 
0'SHAUCH^•ESSY, Francis. LL-B. 
1901 BOHNER, Georse H., LI..B. COONEV, John J.. LL.B. CURRY, John P.. I.L.B., LLJiL 1902 HAMHAUSER, Georse J., LL.B. HIGHSTONE, Laurence S.. LI..B. JDNG, Adolph W., os. KACHnB. Albert. B.S.E.E. KDPPLER, George W., LL.B. LILLY, Dr. John M., A.B. MdNERNT, William A.. LL.B. MULLEN, John I., C.E. OTONNELL, John J., A.B. TAYLOR, Btyan M.. os. 
1902 FINK, Henry S., os. KELLY, George H.. LL-B. KINNEY, Joseph C, LL.B. KRAST, Dr. Robert A.. B.S.B!ol. UcELLIGOTT, Peter P., LL.B. MUBPHV, Clifton E. WHITE, Orrin A., B.S. 
1903 BAER, Frederick L., M.E., E.B. DeWULF, C.S.C. Rev. Emil P.. A.B. GREEN. Omer Da\-id. I,I,.B. KEELEY. Denis T., LL.B. McKAHARA, Peter J., LL.B. CHALLEY, C.S.C.. Eev. Dominic, Litt.B. QUIGLEY. Edward P.. LL.B. 1903 REBILLOT, Paul F.. C.E. 

1904 ANTODfE, Lawrence M.. M.E.. E.E. DILLON, Daniel C. I,L.B.. A.B. GARDINER, William K.. A.B. SWANTZ, Dr. Thomas J., B.S.BioI. WIHBERG, C.S.C.. William M., A.B. 
1905 LOUGHRAN, Francis J.. LL.B. KAHONEY, WilUam J.. LL.B. 
McGARRY, C.S.C., Eev. Frank, os., el. 1922 
McGLEW, Henry J., LL.B. 
1906 
ALLPORT, Dr. Frank, LL.D. 
BATLLE, Ei-aristo R.. B.S-A.E. 
BATLLE, Joseph J., B.S-A.E. 
BUN , C.S.C., Rev. Albert E.. A.B. BROWN. Dr. Michael J.. LL.B, M.A. 1908, %1,M. 1908 CAMPBELL, Matthew A., M.E. 
DONOVAN, Eichanl Wm., I.L.B. 
HEALY, Thomas F., LL.B. 
MOYEB, Dr. Harold N.. LL.D. 
O'DONNELL, C.S.C., Eev. Charles L., A.B. 
ROBINSON. William P.. OS., el. 1932 
STAFFORD, Eev. D.J.. LL.D. 
TOSILINSON, Hugh D., os. 
ZEBHUSEN, Eev. Francis, A.B. 
1907 FOORNIEB, Arthur M.. os. HANAN, John F.. LL.B., LLJIL 1908 MALLOY, Pat.. LL.B. McGANNON, T. Paul, LL.B.. LLJI. 190S SJnTH, Eev. John T.. LLD. TOBIN, Thomas James, C.E. 
1908 BROGAN, John F.. LL.B. DOKOVAN, Rupert D.. LL.B. KENNEDY, Edward M.. LittB. McPARTLIN, Leslie J.. Ph.B. RIOROAN, Most Rev. Patrick W., el. RIVAS, A. Aldrete, RE. 
1909 GAR\'EY, Hhrry V., SJH.E. HOGAN, Xeo James, Ph.B. QUINN, Walter L., LL.B. SCULLIN, Rev. John E.. Litt.B. WOOD, Fay F., LL.B. 
1910 CACERES, Frederico, E.E. CLARE, Malachy D. LL.B. KNNIGAN, C.S.C., ilost Eev. Geo. J.. LittB. HOLLEARN, Francis J.. Litt. B. JALONDONI, Daniel L., Ph.C. KELLY, Damay A., LL.B. LAVIN, C.S.C., Rev. Walter a . LittB. MARSHALL, Hon. Thos. Riley. LL.D. MOSELEY, Hon. Edward A.. LL.D. PAM, Max, LL.D. 

1911 BARBAZETTE, Dr. Leon P., Ph.C. BYBNE, Jospeh M.. Sr., el. DANA, Frederick C, Ph.C. DIMMICK, Ralph C, LL.B. 
DIXON, Joseph T., LL.B. 
DONAHUE, C.S.C., Rev. Joseph N.. LittB. 
ELLIOTT, C.S.P., Rev. Walter, LL.D. 
GAHBOA, Nicholas A., C.E. 
HARMON, Judson, LL.D. 
HASSETT, J. J., OS. 
HAYES, Michael C. A.B. 
MALONE, John. eL 
MENNICH, Julius, S.E.E. 
QUINLAN, Joseph A., A.B.. 
ROMANO, John M., C.E. 
SKELLEY, Raymond E., LittB. 
WELCH, John W., LL.B. 
1912 CURRAN, Cyril J.. A.B. DEVINE, John F., LL.B. GRAHA&I, Stuart M., el. HAGERTY, Charles Aloysius, LL.B. HALTER. Rev. Michael. LittB. KILKENNY, Francis J., el. PAGE, P. Harvey A., Ph.G. 

1913 BOLDT, August H., B.S.Chem. BURROWS, Julius C. LL.D. DeFRIES, Erich H., A,B.. LL.B. 191G DENNIS, Clyde J., LL.B. DOUGHERTY, Michael A.. LL.B. FURLONG, Thomas A., RE. HAMMOND, LeGrande, LL.B. HICKS, William J.. LL.B. HOWELL, Marshall, el. HLEY, Louis J.. Ph.B. NOUD, Reuben P., LL.B. SATOMAYOR, Louis G, SJI.E. SAWKINS, John A., E.E. SCHWARTZ, Samuel P.. LL.B. SOISSON. Basil J., LL.B. STANFORD. Frank C. LittB. STUECKLE, Qarence C. LL.B. TRUSCOTT, Frederick L.. E.E. TWINTNG, Simon E., Ph.B. WENTLAN*D, Frank L., S.E.E. WILHES. Carl E., Ph.G. 
1914 ALBERTSOK, C.S.C., Eev. George W.. LittB. FLEMING, Jr.. Stephen, cl. GAVISK, Rev. Msgr., Francis H., LL.D. GEIGER. Jacob R., LittB. GUENDLING, Rev. J.H., LL.D. RICKEY, R t Eev. Msgr. William D.. LL.D. KEHOE, C.S.C., Rev. Francis L., A.B. KING, Albert V., Ph.B. LAWRENCE, Charles B., S.E.E. MeCOY. John R., LL.B. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI DIRECTORY 
191S CARROLL, Rt. Bev. John, LL.D. CLEBIENTS, Gerard S., LL.B. FERNANDEZ, Padre M., B.S. M.S. 1916 HAYES, Arthur J., Ph.B. KELLEY. Raymond G., LLB. KRALL, John J., A.B. HILLS. Rupert F., LL.B. QUINTANILLA, iBnacio M.. E.M. SMITH, Joseph C, Fh.B. SOMERS, Charles P., LL.B. WOODBIAN, Rev. Clarence E.. LL.D. 
1916 CONBOY, John P., LL.B. CURRAN, Thomas H., Ph.B. HUNTER, Arthur B., Ph.B., LL.B. 1920 MARIN, Kev. Francisco, LL.D. HATALLANA, Padre D., E.E. HULDOON, Kt. Eev. Peter, LL.D. STEPHAN, Leo J.. S.E.E. WADE, Martin J., LLJ). 
1917 BARTU, Rev. Francis. LL.D. 
BICKERSTAFFE-DREW, R t Bev. Msgr.. LL.D. 
CHARTRAND, Rt. Bev. Joseph LL.D. 
DAUGHERTY, Robert J., B.S.. Ph.C. 
DOWLING, Victor J., LL.D. 
EGAN, William J., M.E. 
HAND, Gilbert P., LUB. MATTHEW, C.S.C, Brother. Litt.B.. M>A. 1928 McDERMOTT, Hon. Ed.. LL.D. 
QUINLAN, Francis R., S.B.E. 
REEVE, Charles B., LL.B. 
STONE, Very Eev. Fidelis. LL.D. 
WATTERS, Edmund D., KM. 
1918 HURLEY, Edward N., LLB. JENNETT, Earl P., LI..B. PHILBIN, David. LL.B. 
1919 HEATH. Dr. Edrfn R., LL.D. HOARTY, Verdin. LL.B. 
192a BIBLECKI, C.S.C, Rev. Stanislaus, A.B. BOYER, Dr. John s!. B.S. GIPP. Georue. OS. el. 1921 KIRK, Bernard C, os. McGRATH, William J.. I,L.B. MOORE. Arthur J., os. STEPHAN, La%vrence S.. LL.B. WATERS, Thomas J.. BjVrch. 
1921 DOYLE, Edward B., Ph.B.Journ. O'ROURKE, William J., Ph.C. 
1922 CARROLL, Stuart H.. el. DICKENS, Earl S., el. HOFFMAN. Harry J., B.S.Ch., M.S. 1923 LIPPINCOTT, Charles A.. IiL.D. ROMBAUT. Lawrence E.. M.S. YOUNG. Daniel H.. C.E. 
1923 KELLY. Franklyn J., LL.B. LENNON. Edward J., LL.B. MAHER. CS.C. Rev. Timothy, el. O'CONNELL, Patrick J., LL.B. OUVEB, J.D., el. 
1924 BARNABAS, F.S.C.. Brother. LL.D. ERSKINE, Albert R., LL.D. FERRIS, Woodbridgc N.. LL.D. GILBERT, C.S.C, Brother. Ph.B.Phys.Ed. HEBSAM. Hubert M.. RE . KEPNER. Joseph. LL.B. KRESIP, Gerard B., Chj:. MILLER. C.S.C, Rev. Paul, M,A. 
1923 FLYNN, Eobert G.. 8.C.S. HOUSER, Max, LL.B. HYACINTH. C.S.C. Brother. A.B. KING. George F.. Ph.Grad, B.S.Ph. 1926 LAVERY, Oscar D., A.B. MOORE, Hon. Edmond, LL.D. SMITH, Maurice A.. LL.B. WEIBEL, John D., B.S. 
1926 

EDER, Sidney, A.B.. LUB. 1928 GENIESSE. Oswald G., B.C.S. HATTEN. Arthur Coyne, B.C.S. JULY, AIphoDse J., H.A. KUHNS. Dale. LL.B. MEEHAN. Augustus F.. H.S. MOYNIHAN, Robert J.. B.C.S. ROWLEY. Edwin G., C.E. SPRINGER. Charles W., 1X3 . 
TROMBLEY, Donald C, LL.B. 
WOOTEN, Hon. Dudley G, Ii.D. 
19» OOUJAK, John F., B.S.CJI McDERMOTT, Charles B., A3 . PENDER, Francis D., B.G.S. RYCHOWSKI, Stanley F.. LL.B. STEYSKAL. Norman. B.S.C3. 
1928 FUCK. George W.. A.B. HALPIN, Harold W.. A.B. KIENER. George A.. A3 . MURPHY, Joseph D., A.B. NICKELLS, Robert L.. Ph.B Jor.Com. OTOOLE, Francis A.. A.B. PRELLI, Joseph L.. Ph.BJor.Com. 
1929 
KINGSEED, Wilbur F.. B.S.RE. 
1931 
DAILEY, Francis E.. LL.B. 
HART. James O.. A.B. 
NOON. Harrington J.. LL.B. 
McVEIGH. Rev. Patrick F., Fh.D. 
ROESENER. Walter G., A.B. 
1932 BALDWIN. Rollia G.. A.B. BIGGINS. John G, rh.B.Com. 
1933 
BURRIS. Robert E.. Fh.B.Com. 
MEMORANDA 
MEMORANDA 
\V^.' 







