The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
NOTBE DAME 
gWiiiMi m 
JAN. - FEB.. 1970 
REFLECTIONS 
On a IVear Miss 
Ml^^ •\ 
>.' ^ • K.' 

..•t • \ \ \ \ 
%P^
oN^ 

NP^ 

OBV:iS 

We get letters • 
In the last issue, I said "I know you're there." In this issue many of you 
have confirmed my belief. There seems to be ample evidence that not only 
are you out there, but as I suspected, that quite a few of you have a genuine 
concern for and interest in this University and its problems. 
By evidence I simply mean letters, which begin on page 42 and many of which are provocative and interesting, regardless of their particular viewpoint. I judge "Alumni Ask" to be an invaluable tool in exposing the members of the alumni body to the varying reactions and ideas of their peers concerning their alma mater, a belief which led us to feature eight pages of response in this issue. We have never before devoted that much space to alumni rsponse but we have never before received such response, in terms of spirit or quantity. I invite you to study the response and if you are so moved, to respond yourself. 
In speaking of response, I might add that it will be diflicult for you to miss our special gold insert featuring a message from Donald F. O'Brien, the new president of the Alumni Assn. In the insert Don elucidates some of his ideas concerning the role of the association and how it can be most effiectively play that role. He, too, asks for some response on your part. He requests that you take five minutes to remove the card from the last page of the insert and that you indicate what topics or quesions you feel the Alumni Board and Senate should concentrate on. This is a genuine chance to be heard by your elected representatives. 
In this issue we have also featured the recent trip to the Cotton Bowl, an exciting adventure that is described at length by that colorful wizard of the quill, Dick Conklin, and yours truly. In addition, there are the highlights of campus news and our usual sizeable helping of alumni news and events. Enjoy it all! 
Tom Sullivan Managing Editor 

IN THIS ISSUE  
UniversityBook ReviewClass News  p. 1 p. 11 p. 14Alumni Ask  Graduate Schook Club News On Record p. 42   p. 36 . p. 38  p. 41  

Vol. 48 No. 1 jran.-Feb., 1970 
James D. Cooiicy '59 E-xEcunvE SECRETARY ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
Jolin P. Thurin '59 EDITOR 
Tom SulIK'an '66 MANACING EDITOR 
Sandra Lonsfootc ASSISTANT EDITOR 
John McDcnnott '70 Bill ifitchcll '71 Meg Van Der Gracht '69 
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
M. Bnicc Harlan '49 CHIE F PHOTOGRAPHER 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS 
Leonard H. Skoglund '38 HONORARY PRESIDENT 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 PRESIDENT 
Waller M, Langford '30 ViCE-PtaESIDENT 
W. Jerome Kane *38 VICE-PRESIDENT 
Francis J. Wilson '28 VICE-PRESIDENT 
James D. Cooney '59 ExECUTtt-E SECRETARY 
Michael E. Jordan '68 ASSISTANT SECRETARY 
DIRECTORS TO 1971 

W. Jerome Kane *38 (CLUB ACTIVITIES) P.O. Box 3707, Seattle, Wash. 98124 
Walter M. Langford '30 (CLASS AcnvTTiEs) 1315 Otsego St., South Bend, Ind. 46617 Donald F. O'Brien '42 (EXECUTI\'E AND NOMINATIONS) 1113 Rocky River Rd., Houston, Tex. 77027 
Leonaitl H. Skoglund '38 (SENATE .ACTIVITIES) 426 Dover Ave., LaGrangc Park, 111. 60525 
Fruncis J. Wilson '28 (PUBUC RELATIONS AND DElEtOP.MENT) 6105 Howe St., PiltS­buigh. Pa. 15206 
DIRECTORS TO 1972 

Robert A. Erkins '37 (PLACEMENT) P. O Box 546, Buhl, Idaho 83316 
John T. Massman '52 (pACULTi- RELATIONS) 3917 Broadway, Kansas City, Mo. 64111 
• Frank L- McGinn *52 (ACU>£.MIC AFFAIRS) 900 Bldg., Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062 
Robert L. McGoIdrick '56 (CONTINUING EDUCATION) 15 Drury Lane, West Hartford, Conn. 06117 
Leonard H. Tosc '37 (ATHLETIC) 64 W. 4th St., Bridgeport, Pa. 19405 
DIRECTORS TO 1973 

Daniel D, Canalc '42, 1325 Coiumercc Title Bldg., Memphis, Tenn. 38103 Dr. John C. Lungrcn '38. 4180 Chestnut Ave., Long Beach, Calif. 90807 James C. AfacDevitt '35, 43 Hampshire Rd., Great Neck, N.Y. 11023 Joseph T. O'Neill '53, 60 W. 4th St., St. Paul, Minn. 55102 John R. Panclli '49, 17549 Kirkshirr, Bir­mingham, Mich. 48009 
1970 Notre Dame ALIJMNUS, University of Notre Dame, all rights rescr\*ed. Reproduc­tion in whole or in part tWthout »Titten permission is prohibited. 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published monthly, except January, March, May. August and Novcraocr, by the Univeisily of Notre Dame. Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

UNrvEitsiTr 
The Cotton Bowl parade jeatured numerous "attractions." 



Big «'D" 
by Richard W, Conklin 
The Dallas Fairmont Hotel is the city's newest and finest. Its red-black­gold decor and plush interior design look back to the days of sumptuous public hostelries, which had spacious, carpeted lobbies where people sat and moved in comfort unknown to those who inhabit the clickety-clack truncated approaches to the main desks of today's "modern" hotels. 
There is a carriage-type front entrance, an electric shoe polisher and alarm clock in every guest room, and the sand in the lobby ashtrays is embossed periodically throughout the day with an Old English "F." You can sip $1.50 champagne in a front lobby bar or drink a $1.25 glass of V8 juice in hooded black wicker chairs in the fancy "Brasserie" coffee shop. 
This was the environment into which stepped some 600 ND Cotton Bowl football fans last Dec. 30th. "Who you-all for?" was the universal greeting in Fairmont elevators. (It was, of course, unnecessary to reverse the question.) 
At the black tie Presidents' Dinner Dec. 30th, sponsored by the Cotton Bowl Athletic Assn. (CBAA) and held on the 36th floor of the Southland Center in downtown Dallas, the atmosphere was gracious and the football references as deferential as those made by rival coaches not wanting to provide locker room bulletin board material. 
From Joe Dealey, publisher of the Morning News and president of the CBAA, to the academic representa­tives of the Southwest Conference, the feeling at the dinner was one of delight at luring ND back into bowl competition. The visiting sportswriter contingent had overflowed the press box—an indication of how the Cotton Bowl had stolen the post-season lime­light—and no one wished to spoil the mood by blatant partisanship. 
Fr. Hesburgh was not expected to arrive in Dallas from Mexico until the game, but came earlier, in time to be paired with Fr. Joyce in the post-dinner repartee between the guest school and the host conference, "The first ND football game I ever saw was the 7-6 Texas defeat of ND in 1934," ND's president recalled. Fr. Joyce followed with his own harrowing recollection of that famous upset and added some respectful comments about the 1969 Texas team. Respond­ing in kind, U. of Texas President Norman Hackerman and Chancellor Harry H. Ransom noted the use of "selective statistics." After all, they pointed out, ND held a 4-1 edge in the gridiron rivalry. 
It was a pleasant evening which mingled the CBAA people, the ND administrative party and the repre­sentatives of the eight schools in the Southwest Athletic Conference. The view—^which overlooked the neon-lighted skyline of Dallas—^was intriguing, and the steak repast faultless. 
The Fairmont tension grew on New Year's Eve. If a person was not worried about his wife prowling the too-accessible precincts of the main lobby annex of Neiman-Marcus, he was worried about ND's weakened offensive line. When it came to Neiman-Marcus, the CBAA had arranged a style-show buffet at the main downtown store for athletic­
Fighting Irish Joes came from far and near. 
administrative party wives, who munched a turkey-plus-omelet creation while envying $1,500 coats and $500 cocktail dresses. Charge accounts were available for the asking, and judging by the number of N-M bags on the return trip, several asked. 
The central gathering spot for ND people was the Alumni Hospitality Room on the Fairmont banquet floor of the hotel. An oasis for the thirsty and the hungry, the Hospitality Room served a continental breakfast and a simple afternoon fare which came to be known as "beer 'n beef." The Dallas Alumni Club ran a message center, and ND alumni impresario Jim Cooney and his assistant, Mike Jordan, pumped friendly hands in one room while manning football movie pro­jectors in the next. On short notice, the Dallas Alumni Club reacted fast to earn what should be the first annual "Bowl Service Award." From per­sonally meeting some 43 individual flights which carried ND football players through booking the Dallas Memorial Auditorium for a gigantic New Year's Eve party to providing post-game dates for a traveling squad of 69, the club distinguished itself. A tip of the hat to President Edward Fleming III, arrangements coordinator Robert Williams, and their too­numerous-to-mention helpers. 
The Cotton Bowl New Year's Eve Dinner-Dance for members of the ND and Texas administrative and athletic parties was a model of elegance and taste. Held in the Regency Ballroom of the Fairmont, the affair placed the Texas people on one side of the red-dominated room and ND on the other. At each end of the room was a buffet the palate, and in the middle was a small dance floor which provided a free>i)assage zone between football rivals. An ample bar also was an aid to conviviality. It was a night for long gowns and cummerbunds, and the inevitable happened. My wife dis­covered that Ara Parseghian's wife had on her dress (or vice versa). It wasn't quite as bad as the previous evening when two Southwest Con­ference wives showed up wearing the same outfit. "I got mine in New York City," said one. "Where did you get yours?" "Bryan, Tex.," came the reply, with obvious satisfaction. 

As for Annette Conklin and Katie Parseghian—they were both lovely. 
At the pre-arranged time of 11 p.m., some members of the ND adminis­trative party left the Regency Room for the Memorial Auditorium where 
close to 2,000 ND rooters had gathered in a large and happy displaced persons camp. It was a gatecut (as they say in Texas) ND crowd—the Southerners and the Northerners, the young and the old, those with memories and those with anticipations, the clean-shaven and the hirsute, the liberal and the conserva­tive. It was also the end of the '60s and the beginning of the '70s, and while green-hatted alumni shouted the New Year in, the bus pulled away from the auditorium and the Uni­versity's traveling party greeted 1970 in a CMC motor coach. Back at the Fairmont's Regency Ballroom, the champagne was flowing. 
New Year's Day dawned clear, sunny and 25 degrees. About 100 persons crowded into a small room on the banquet level of the Fairmont for a concelebrated Mass, complete with some of the most unusual liturgical music yet—^muted Muzak. As the group filed out of the room, one man looked at the Texas state seal above the door and observed in a loud, Boston-brogue voice, "Texas, you ca-ahn't win now!" He received a good-natured ripple of laughter from the departing congregation, but the incident was one of the few occasions during the tour when the Irish fans mixed religion and football. This association was much stronger with the Texans, as though the ecumenical movement hadn't quite succeeded in dispelling the "religious war" at­mosphere which surrounded the SMU-ND clashes of Cotton Bowl lore. 
The omnipresent nuns were on hand, and a group of them accosted Jim Cooney one afternoon in the Fairmont lobby, sporting modified 
table which excluded no temptation to Dallas ND Club members and their wives provided super hospitality. 
habits and ND pennants. They were 
members of the Sisters of Charity of 
the Incarnate Word and worked in 
Houston hospitals. 
"What brings you to the Cotton Bowl?" Cooney asked. 
"Renewal," they replied. 
(One of these nuns later wrote to Cooney telling him the game was 
worth their wait of 25 years. "Our 
motto for next year," wrote Sr. M. 
Joan, "is 'Theismann for the 
Heisman.'") 
At an excellent pre-game brunch, hosted by the Haggar family in the Dallas-Sheraton in honor of Fr. Hesburgh, ND's president revealed he had resisted the temptation to pray for victory at his private Mass that morning. "Rather than pray for victory, I asked simply that we play the very best kind of football we knew how," he said. (The quality of the game played a few hours later testified to the continuing power of prayer.) Most of the 150 persons at the brunch scooped some black-eyed peas onto their buffet plates and hoped that some of the year's worth of good luck which Southern custom says comes from eating this dish on New Year's Day would rub off on the underdog "Fighting Irish." 
The buses inched along the route to Fair Park and the Cotton Bowl, and the streets near the 72,000-seat white stadium were crowded with vendors hawking the green of ND and the orange of Texas. The ND seats were on the visitors' side, at the curve of the bowl on the. entrance end. The field was brown, chewed into now-dried mud by the Dallas-Cleveland game in the rain. 
All the hoopla (and then some) was there—the ND band (which had practiced some 12 hours for its impressive 6-minute halftirae show); the Irish Guard; the leprechaun; the cheerleaders; former President Johnson; the Kilgore Rangerettes; "Arnold," the Indiana hog which was Gov. Whitcomb's stake in a bet with the governor of Texas; "Beevo," the steer and Civil War vintage cannon, symbolic of the Longhoms; the nationwide television audience; and Goodyear's familiar blimp. It was in the 50s now, and top coats were unnecessary. 
One elderly T-shirted ND fan who had sought his warmth indirectly was being escorted down the stadium steps by a compassionate Dallas policeman. 
"If I take you to your seat, will you leave it?" he asked. 
"No," was the reply. 
"Can you find your seat yourself?" 
"No," again was the reply. 
"You're an honest man," said the cop as he ushered him gently into his row. 
The game is described in detail elsewhere; suffice it to say it merited the word "classic" found on Cotton Bowl tickets. It was a spine-tingler and a throat-grabber, to mention only a few of the adjectives invented by Grantland Rice for just such occasions. As the ND fans filed back into the Haggar brunch buses, they were met with a hand-scrawled note from their driver. "Sorry about that, folks," it said. It was a silent group. We had played too well to cry, and we had missed joy by five points. Somewhere, two daughters and a son of Alumni Assn. president-elect Don O'Brien were ribbing their father. (The three are students at Texas.) 
So it was back to the Fairmont. To well-appointed rooms and color television sets. To the Rose Bowl and the Orange Bowl. To dinner and a glass of champagne in the lobby bar. To suitcases outside the door by 
9:30 a.m. Friday and a tip under the pillow for the maid. To a hoarse good-bye from yellow-blazered Alumni Holidays tour guides. To a second Branifl jet back to Chicago. 
"I don't want to see this game on instant replay," commented one bellman. "I'm not so sure we'd win again." 
Another vieur 
by Tom Sullivan 
it is a 10 minute taxi ride from the luxurious confines of the Fairmont to the periphery of downtown Dallas and the ultra-modern Mariott Motor Inn, headquarters for the team and athletic entourage. 
The ND aggregiation of some 200 people, including players and their wives, coaches and their families, and the athletic party and their families, occupied the entire east building of the stylish lodge and the prevailing atmosphere was perhaps a bit more purposeful than the con­viviality that reigned at the downtown hotels. Most of the group arrived via charted stretch jet the day after Christmas, although the majority of the team flew in individually from their respective areas. 
The Marriott is situated across the freeway from a local high school 
which, though stirred into a gumy paste by a combination of damp weather and previous use, served as a convenient practice site for the Fighting Irish. The team managed six workouts after arriving in Dallas, despite the rainy, cold weather pro­vided by the Texas prognosticator. After double sessions on Dec. 27th to crank out any dust and bum up an excess of turkey and dressing that might have accumulated over the brief holiday, the Irish settled into a normal piegame practice routine. 
Ara Paiseghian had sent his charges through eight workouts in South Bend prior to Dec. 19th, when squad members departed for home and 
The occasion spawned a new banner. 

Christmas with their families. By mid-December, however, the long Northern Indiana winter had taken hold and most of the practices were conducted on the Tartan surface of the Athletic and Convocation Center Fieldhouse. 
Although all but a few of the team arrived on the 26th, there was some doubt for a time as to whether a few of the easterners on the squad would be able to escape the clutches of a severe winter blast that was racking the East Coast Questionable for a time were the likes of quarter­back Joe Theisman from New Jersey, All American linemen Larry DiNardo from New York and Mike McCoy from Erie, Pa. The luck of the Irish prevailed, thou^, and all key person­nel were on deck for the initial practice. 
As mig^t be expected, there was plenty of business to be conducted in 
The pride oj the Fighting Irish enkindled the spirit for many. 
connection with the team's visit to Big "D" and the man. responsible for conducting most of it and tying many of the loose ends together was Business Manager of Athletics Bob Cahill. Bob and his able staff, in addition to providing transportation, lodging and entertainment for the team, manned an office in the Marriott from 9:30 a.m. till 4:30 
p.m. daily. It was not all work and no play for the Irish in Dallas. Through the hospitality and cooperation of numer­ous alumni and the CBAA, the pre­game week included extensive extra­curricular activity. Saturday evening the 27th, the team attended dinner and a show in the elegant Venitian Room of the Fair­mont, one of Dallas's plushest night­spots. Sunday, it was the Dallas-Cleveland game in the Cotton Bowl and a visit to the famous Cattleman's Restaurant for dinner that evening. Monday evening saw the group at the Country Dinner Theater for another 
repast and a show, with Tuesday evening offering the option of a movie 
Joe Theisman led the Irish challenge. 

downtown or a quiet night in front 
of a TV. 

Wednesday afternoon, the last day of the decade, the team and coaching staff were guests at the Texas Sports Hall of Fame Luncheon, while the evening hours of New Year's Eve lacked the fun and frolic of a Texas celebration, but included quiet prep­aration instead. 
As Thursday, Jan. 1, 1970 proved, despite some handicaps the Fighting Irish had prepared themselves quite well. It was a day ND football fans— and opponents — had anticipated for 45 years. The University was abandoning an antiquated custom while at the same time adding im­measurable luster to the game of college football in its centennial year, simply by consenting to participate. 
ND vs. Texas in the Cotton Bowl. Much has been written and more said about what transpired that sunny afternoon on the Texas State Fair­grounds. In a nutshell, the Fighting Irish made believers out of most of the nation even though losing a classic 21-17 battle to the talented Longhoms in the final 68 seconds. The Blue and Gold gave the south­erners all they could handle and then some for most of the afternoon but in the end it was the crushing ground attack that Texas had weilded so successfully all season that did the Irish in. Steering clear of the left side of the defense and big Mike McCoy the majority of the time, the Texans gained momentum in the sec­ond half and rolled up more than 300 yards rusing against a defense that had yielded an average of only 85 overland yards per contest against 10 previous opponents. 
Records were set, brilliant plays were executed, and the dedication and immense talent of both teams was made evident, but perhaps most im­pressive from the Irish point of view was the fact that a team that had not been rated as one of ND's strongest in recent years came of age and tested the nation's finest right down to the wire. In the beginning it had been a group of young men devoid of Huartes, Hanrattys, Snows and Seymoures. It had been a team of young, unproven talent at the key positions. Big "D" was all the proof anybody needed to realize that 1970 could become another year of the Irish superstar. 
Young quarterback Joe Theisman performed brilliantly, setting Cotton Bowl records for most yards passing 
(231) and most yards passing and rushing (279). In doing so, he gave ample notice that it is no longer a remote possibility that next year he may be considered as a strong candidate for a trophy who's spelling and pronunciation bear a remarkable 
Ara exudes the intensity of the day. 

similarity to his name. Split-end Tom Gatewood also proved that he has come a long way toward staking a claim to a slot on the 1970 All American roster. 
The game turned out to be a pleasant swan song for some' seniors who could be sorely missed next year. Linebacker and captain Bob Olson, a three-year stalwart for the Irish, had one of his finest games against the Longhoms and was named defensive player of the game. Mike McCoy, Larry Schumacher, John Gasser, Mike Oriard and Chuck Kennedy also had good afternoons. 
And so it was a great game. Not much more can be said except, as they say down south, "We done our­selves quite proud." But Dick, I'd 
sure like to see an instant replay. 
That one was so close you just can't 
tell how it would turn out again. 
Following the New Year's combat, the team and athletic party attended the CBAA Awards Dinner and many of the players with dates in tow went on to the Haggar party after­wards. Friday, the 2nd, as most Fighting Irish fans headed homeward, the team spent the day at a western-style ranch complete with barbecue and horseback riding—an unusual sequel to riding herd on a bunch of Longhorns the day before. Saturday the squad was the guest of Mr. Trammel Crow for brunch, and Sunday it was north to South Bend, books and winter. 
There has been considerable discus­sion about the possibility of ND participating in post-season bowl games in the future. The precedent has been set and two things can be said: the 1970 Cotton Bowl was a thoroughly enjoyable experience from every standpoint, and the proceeds from the game wiii go to an extremely worthy cause — minority student aid. Taking all things into considera­tion, it might be wise to make tenta­tive reservations down Miami way for Jan. 1, 1971. You just never know. 
The crushing charge of "Big Mike" and his cohorts wasn't quite ermugh. 
Miss Notre Dame looked perplexed . . at the firuil outcome. 


Alumni Board meets on eampns 
The National Board of Directors of 
the ND Alumni Assn. assembled on 
campus for its regular winter meeting 
Jan. 29, 30, 31. The board honored 
four retiring members: Edward G. 

Cantwell '24, Columbus, Ohio, John J. 
Reidy '27, Cleveland, Ohio, Edward 

B. Fitzpatrick Jr., '54, New York, and Leonard H. Skoglund '38, Chicago, who becomes honorary president. Five new members were welcomed to the group: John C. Lungren M.D. '38, Long Beach, Calif., Joseph T. O'Neill '53, St. Paul, Minn., John R. Panelli '49, Birmingham, Mich., James C. MacDevitt '35, Great Neck, N.Y., and Daniel D. Canale '42, Memphis, Tenn. 
Board sessions were devoted to discussions with University adminis­trators in the areas of admissions, student affairs, religion on campus, public relations and development and athletics. The board also met with the student body president, editors of 

student publications, and the manager Members of the Alumni Board at its winter meeting. 
of the campus radio station, WSND. 
A report on institutional racism as a 
concentration of the Urban Studies 
Institute was given by Prof. Thomas 
Broden, director of the institute. 

Mache«;a joins PR and D staff 
A highlight of the Saturday session was a meeting with the officers of the John A. Macheca '62, a former ground, Macheca worked as a cow­University. During the meeting the intelligence research analyst with the boy on a ranch in the Texas Pan­board discussed four major areas of National Security Agency (NSA), handle during his college days. He concern: the campus ministry, campus has been named regional director of also chaired the UND Night for the security, minority development, and development for ND in Chicago. He Washington, D.C. ND club in 1965. post-season bowl competition. As a succeeds David J. Shanahan '58, who result of its deliberations the board resigned to enter private business. took the following actions among 
Besides administering ND's de­
others: It urged the University to 

velopment program in Chicago, 
grant immediate priority to the 

Macheca will serve a nine-state area, 
improvement of the campus ministry 

including South and North Dakota, 
in terms of identity, personnel and 

Nebraska, Kansas, Missouri, Iowa, 
program; it recommended that the 

Wisconsin, Minnesota and illinois. 
problems of the campus security 

After receiving his degree in Latin 
system be thoroughly investigated and 

American Area Studies from ND, 
that action be taken to upgrade the 

Macheca did postgraduate work at 
operations of that division. 

the North American Cultural Institute in Mexico before joining the NSA. 
In addition, the Alumni Board 

He traveled extensively in Latin 
resolved to commend the Faculty 
America while with the agency. 
Board in Control of Athletics for its 

Macheca, 29, is married and the 
decision to permit the University to 

father of two children, Margot (3) 
engage in bowl competition this year. 

and Mark (1). His wife, Jeanne, 
The board also recommended several 

has an ND-SMC heritage — her 
measures to the Football Ticket 

father and brother are both graduates 
Committee designed to increase the 

of the University and her mother 
number of football tickets available to 

received her degree from St Maiy's. 
contributing alumni. The board 

The Machecas are both originally established the weekend of May 7, from St. Louis. 8, 9 as the occasion of the joint 
A man with varied interests and Alumni Board-Senate meetings at ND. an exciting but rather secret back­John A. Macheca '62 
f 
University faculty and students have been invited to become voting mem­bers on committees of the ND Board of Trustees which deal with their affairs. 
The chairman of the ND board, Chicago attorney Edmund P. Stephan, announced Oct. 18 that provision had been made to add an unspecified number of faculty members to the faculty affairs committee and an unspecified number of students to the student affairs committee. 
"The board believes that this is a significant step forward in the de­velopment of better channels of com­munication with the student body and with faculty and that—properly or­ganized and administered—^the two committees can play an effective role in aiding the board in governance of the University," Stephen said. 
A request by student government for student representation on the board itself was turned down. "There was general consensus among the trustees," Stephan said, "that anyone 
STUDENT VIEW 


Students, faeulty Join trnstees 
The Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees in session. 
who assumes the duties of the office should be completely disinterested in his judgments and hence should not represent any special class or group, however meritorious." 
In other responses to requests pre­

A look befaind the legalities 
by WUliam J. MitcheU '71 
Few critics will be able to accuse ND administrators of letting concern for either American jurisprudence or corporate morality get in the way of their handling of the recent student suspensions. 
For University officials, the situa­tion was pretty clear: the 10 students charged with disruptive participa­tion in a Nov. 18 demonstration against Dow and CIA deserved to be punished. It was an attitude mani­fested in the University's token appeals procedure. In legal terms, the University's policy on dissent is founded on the principle of "guilty until proven innocent." 
For the 10 students, however, the intention was not to prove them­selves "innocent" of breaking Father Hesburgh's law. Their appeal was not addressed directly to the adminis­tration's conception of legality, but to its unstated and ambiguous official nonposition on corporate morality. The 10 students claimed Christianity as the basis for their disobedience. For the lip service response they received, they might as well have claimed atheism as the guiding prin­ciple for their morality. 
In rendering his final decision on the matter. Dean of Students Rev. 
James Riehle CSC reduced the punish­ment of five of the 10 from expulsion to suspension — thus making all the punishments the same. Neither he nor Fr. Hesburgh, who upheld his decision, addressed himself to the issue at the heart of the suspensions: his own conception of the corporate morality of ND, of the implications of Christian faith in the context of a group of people living together. What is the personal moral respon­sibility of the individual vis-a-vis the direction of the institution he helps constitute? Neither Fr. Riehle nor Fr. Hesburgh responded to the reasons the students gave for their rule-breaking. 
But then there was the judge who convicted the ambulance driver for disturbing the peace with his siren: "It's irrelevant that the patient was bleeding to death — it is not legally significant that there were people in the intersection who were unaware of the situation — you disturbed people with your siren and that's all there is to it." 
The fact that the moral judgment of University administrators has been challenged by a group of students is 
sented by the student govemment, the trustees agreed to issue a public release after each meeting, describing what took place, and to publish a list of all companies in which, the University carries investments. 
generally regarded as a presumptuous breach of propriety. It just b not taken seriously. Unfortunately for all concerned, authorities often look everywhere but to themselves in search of the cause of dissent from their rule. 
The inscription above the east door of ND's Sacred Heart Church sug­gests an interesting harmony of purpose: "For God, Count^ and Notre Dame." At ND today, it is a proposition that is more dangerous than it is worthwhile. For such harmony is good only to the extent that primary allegiance is made publicly to God—and that decisions made in or about country or am* munity are made in terms of that allegiance. Witness Constantine. 
In other words, until authorities explain decisions in terms of morality —as opposed to legalify—the rhetoric about "God, Country and Notre Dame" amounts to little more than idolatry. 
Unless University authorities are willing to speak directly and primarily to the faith and morality behind the legalities they enforce, the notion of Christian community might best be suspended along with the 10 students who believed in its chances at ND. 

A priests^ priest dies 
by Rev. Jolin Wilson CSC 

As it does for all men, even the apparently indestructible, death finally came for 81-year-oId Rev. Bernard Lange CSC, known to generations of students as the firm yet kindly master of "Fr. Lange's Gym," the body­building and weightlifting emporium back of the main building. He died in the University Infirmary Jan. 14 after suffering a cerebral hemorrhage. 
Bora in Danzig, East Prussia, Germany, on Aug. 8, 1888, Fr. Lange came as a child with his parents to Oil City, Pa., whence he entered the hi^ school at ND in 1904. He was graduated from the University in 1912 and a year later was back, this time as a Holy Cross novice. He was ordained to the priesthood in 1917. He had earned a Litt.B. degree at ND and now was to add an B.S. and a M.A, as well as a Ph.D. at St Edward's U., Austin, Tex. His field covered biology, comparative anatomy and physical anthropology. Following a couple of shorter stints on campus (1917-22, 1923-27) and at St. 
Edward's U. (1922-23, 1927-34), he returned to ND to stay in 1934. A year later, failing eyesight ended his classroom career and he took up in earnest two activities in which he had long been interested, weightlifting and carpentry. 
The combination "gym" and carpenter shop, located first in the old natatorium and then in the former paint shop, was open to anyone with a genuine interest in the services offered there. Over the next 35 years, thousands were: those who were serious enough about weightlifting to try out for the team Fr. Lange 
Fr. Lange and some of his trophies. 

organized and coached, the ordinaiy student who wanted a hobby which would also help him keep in good physical condition, and the athletes who wanted the training as an aid in interiiall or varsity sports. His 1953 wei^tlifting squad won the national inter-coUegiate championship, and within recent years Coach Ara Parse^an gave him special recogni­tion for his work with members of the football team. 
A simple, down-to-eaith man, Fr. Lange was allergic to "phomes;" bad eyes and all, he could spot one, student or non-student, at the drop of a bar bell. Among the many stories, not all apociyphal, about him, there is the one concerning the two Marines newly arrived on campus for one of the "instant-i^cers" programs during World War 11. Wandering into the gym despite the "keep out" sign, they saw the pool and one of them called to the busy man at the caipenter's bench in the corner, "Hey, fatty, what's the water for?" Fr. Lange sauntered over, neatly picked them up, knocked their 
heads together, deposited them over the railing and into the pocA and roared, "It's so you won't bump your dumb skulls on the bottom!" 
Behind the facade of bluff and bluster he had a big heart and a manly piety. No one will ever know how many poor children and families in the South Bend area he helped with money, food and clothing during the depression years, nor the number of students he tided over with a timely loan. In later years, when he lived in the University Infirmary, he would go to bed early, get up to say Mass at midnight, enjoy a bottle of beer and some crackers while chatting with the night nurses, and then head back to bed in order to be up in time for an early moming arrival at his gym. Underaeath the surface tough­ness he possessed a genuine human touch; the man who could baik at a student for "goofing off" in the gym, could nickname the infirmary nurses, "Cricket," "Tutti-frutti" and "Bubbles." 
He was a "priests' priest" and his influence on generations of ND students ("my boys," he called them) extended far beyond the merely physical. May his soul rest in peace. 

Reunion '70 %g COMING! 

Men of Notre Dame—your time is 
at hand. Sooner than you think it will 
be time to pack up your bags and head 
for South Bend, wl^re youll find all 
the ingredients for a weekend filled 
with relaxation, recollection and not 
a littie refreshment 
Reunion '70 is just around the 

corner. The doors of the dorms will 
swing open Wednesday night, June 
10, and four days which have been 
reserved just for ND alums will 
begin the next day. This year's 

reunion classes include sons of ND 
from the years 1965, 1960, 1955, 
1950, 1945, 1940, 1935, 1930, 1925, 
1920, as well as the honored Fifty 
Year Club. 
Thursday, June 11, has been 
set aside for the Monogram Golf 
Touraament and Banquet. 
The official reunion activities, 

including the tee-off of the annual 
golf tourney, will begin bright and 
early Friday morning, June 12. The 
individual class dinners are on tap 
for Friday evening, vrith other things 
probably on tap later. 

The golf tornney will be wrapped up Saturday, and youll get a chance to see the 1969 ND football high­lights and meet with your classmates for Masses and photos. Timely sem­inars on contemporary life at ND and other relevant topics—which will give you another opportunity to say, "Well, when I was here" —have been scheduled for Satur­day. The day will be topped off by the annual reunion banquet, where special honors will be paid to the anniversary classes, 1920 and 1945, and the members of the Fifty-Year Club. 
After a general reunion Mass Sunday moraing, you can head home with all your friendships and hang­overs renewed, and retura to sanity and composure while you anxiously await the time five years hence when you can turn back the clock again and hang loose for a big, long weekend. 
So hold tight, ND men, your time is coming. 
ALUMNI SPEAK 

Thanks, yon-all 
by James D. Cooney 
Executive Secietaiy, Alumm Assn. 
As Dick Conklin mentions in his eye­
witness account of Cotton Bowl 
festivities, 'twas a wedc to remember! 
Aside from the superb effort of the 
Fighting Irish on the brownsward of 
the Cotton Bowl, a different sort of 
heroics was being enacted by an 
unsung group of ND . men. It all 
began about 1:00 pm, Monday, 
November 17, a few minutes after the 
major wire services had spread the 
word that the Irish were emerging 
from self-imposed post-season exile. 
At that hour the Alumni OfBce phone 
jangled. It was a conference call from 
the officers of the Notre Dame Club 
of Dallas. Mingled with the elation 
(shared at both ends of the wire) was 
serious consideration about how the 
Club might make "us all" feel at home 
when zero hour arrived. A veritable 
hot line was established between the 
campus and Big "D," and in the ensu­
ing seven weeks the Notre Dame Club 
of Dallas mobilized in a fashion which 
would have busted Sam Houston's 
buttons. 
They did it all . . . from meeting each player at the airport individually, arranging dates for all, and coordinat­ing massive transportation arrange­ments, to setting up and staffing the Alumni Association's hospitality suite, and hosting a gigantic New Year's Eve Party-Rally attended by 2300. This OflBce, the University, and the thousands of N.D. people who ventured to Cotton country owe an immense debt of gratitude to Dallas Club members and wives. 
Special thanks go to Edward Fleming '63, the Club President, who maintained his good nature through­out, and Robert Williams '59, coordinator of extravaganzas and chief architect of festivities, and the Dallas Club Officers: John Ronan '56, Laurence Bedford '57, Joseph Brassard, Jr. '53, and Paul Undeikofler *58. The entire Haggar family proved once again that Haggar is synonymous with hospitality. Others who did yeomen's jobs were Hugh Bray '54, Ted Amberg '59, Jim Denig '66, Jim Just '59, Jay Jones '59, Fred Eichom '47, Chick Martin '59, "Coricy" Clark '60, Kevin Chisohn '63 and John Rogers '55. 
Gentlemen and ladies .. . you all made us all feel right at home! 
ND students playing their Bit Brother roles. 


A meaningfiil ^thing^ 
Forty-five ND students, working 
under the auspices of the Big Brothers 
of America, are doing their part this 
year to help some of the several mil­
lion fatherless boys in the United 
States and Canada. 
Those 45 students have been as­
signed "little brothers" from the 
South Bend-Mishawaka area and are 
giving fatherless boys opportunities to 
further their growth and development 
through friendships with adult males. 
Four weeks of orientation preceded the assignment of little brothers. The matching of men and boys was based, when possible, on compatible person­alities, common interests and, where indicated, mutual religious faith. After the boy was introduced U> his big brother by a member of the professional staff, the most essential part of the program began—com­munication. Through visits, ball games, museum visits, walks, hikes, bike rides and other recreational activities, the two "brothers" became acquainted. Last year, the ND stu­dents sponsored a picnic for their little brothers, and in November of this year a football get-together was organized. 
Jim Daschbach, an associate professor of engineering at ND, serves as the adviser to the Big Brothers organization at the University. Dasch­bach believes the program <^ers re­wards to both the students and boys 
involved: "The adult male image 
that fatheifcn boys are dqprived of 
is provided by the ND student as a 
Ugbrother. llie value to the student 
is a practical woiM expoam." 
Kegaidless <d the penooal benefits the program offers, funding remains abigproUem. TheBhieCircleHoora^ Society atN D and the South Bend Catholic Social Service provide some financial assistance, but moot of the backing must come directly from Ae volunteen who act as big bratbeis. 

The Kg Kothen ci St Joae^ County ofBdally began in the qping of 1969, as an outgrowth of the Youth Advisers program of the county. John Garvey, an ND senior from Sharon. Fa., is die studnt ooradinator for flie groi^ on campus. 
The national movement was founded by Ernest K. CouHer m 1904 in New York City because he believed that "the ri^ to a fother's kne, under­standing and exampk" should not be denied to any boy. The program offered by the Big ftothers <rf Ameiica n open to boys <rf all creeds and races, and the ghetto youth are a laige portion of those helped. 
To do tfarir part, die St Mary's College community has lecendy started a Big SSsler pmgaaa to hdp young giris find die same type of le­latiooshipt widi adult womm that die boys have found throo^ the Big Brothers iKganization. 
Ten are suspended 
Ten students who were involved in 

a November protest against a Dow 
Chemical Co. recruiter's interviews 
on campus were suspended from 

the University for the balance of the 
first semester on Dec. 6 by Rev. 
James L. Riehle CSC, dean of stu­

dents. The penalty involves the loss 
of all credit for the semester and 
all fees. 
The suspension of all 10 was a 

reduction of penalty for five students, 
who had originally been expelled 
from ND for blocking the doorway 
of a Placement Bureau office where 

recruiting interviews had been sched­
uled, and a confirmation of suspen­
sion for the other five. 

An appeal hearing board consisting of a student, faculty member and an administraator had recommeded the "removal or lightening of the sentences" in order "to encourage serious and peaceful and helpful conversations" about the issues. Fr. Riehle said his reduction of the penalty to the minimum mean­ingful level was "an invitation to all elements within the University to work harder to resolve our differ­ences and to get about making ND the Christian university we all want it to be." 
The November protest against Dow prompted the first application of University President Theodore M. Hesburgh's 15-minute rule concerning disruptive demonstrations which was written last February. 
At press time eight of the ten students suspended had applied for readmission to the University. 
In another aspect of the incident, St. Joseph County Superior Court Judge Norman Kopec on Jan. 23 granted the University a temporary injunction against students who blocked the office door. 

The order restrains two specific students "and the class which they represent and all persons acting in concert with them" from "congre­gating and assembling in the Place­ment office .. . in such a manner or in such a way as to disrupt or interfere with the normal functions conducted by the Placement Office." A Dow representative is scheduled to return to the campus to recruit in late February. 
BRiEJFS 

NeMt> calendar 

ND and St. Mary's have adopted a new academic calendar which will become effective for the 1970-71 school year. First semester classes will begin Sept. 9 and end Dec. 19. Jan. 20 will open the second semester with a mid-spring break from March 13-March 24. Classes will end May 11 with exams scheduled through May 19. Commencement for St. Mary's will be May 22, and ND's graduation exercises will be May 23. 

McKenzie tilted 

ND scripture scholar Rev. John L. McKenzie SJ has been awarded the Thomas More Assn.'s 1969 medal for "the most distinguished contribu­tion" to Catholic literature for his book. The Roman Catholic Church. 

Plan sporiit camp 
D. J. Napolitano, director of nonvarsity sports, has announced the second ND Summer Sports Camp, where boys between the ages of 8 and 16 will be trained under Uni­versity varsity coaches. Information regarding any of the four sessions in June and July may be obtained by writing to Napolitano at the Athletic and Convocation Center at ND. 

Foreign studentn 

The student body of the University includes 308 men and women from 58 countries, representing four per­cent of the total enrollment. China, Canada and India account for one third of the international enrollment while Colombia, Cuba, Panama, Peru, France, Korea, Japan, Ecuador, Mexico and the Phillipines each supplies more than five students. 

Gronp needs house 
Rev. James T. Burtchaell CSC has received a $500 Danforth Foundation grant to subsidize a reading holiday during the Easter vacation. His group of 15 students and faculty members needs a house in the country, preferably the Ozarks, for rent or loan. Contact Father in the Theology Dept. at ND if you can help. 

Conneil objects 

The College of Engineering Council has publicly gone on record as disapproving of the recent obstruction of the Placement Office during the Dow recruiting interveiews. Basing their objections on the nature of a university, the members drew up a resolution concerning dissent and its place in the academic institution. 


SrMMA at 92 percent 
SUMMA: Notre Dame's Greatest Challenge, a $52 million development program, was an eyelash away from the 92 percent mark as 1969 came to an end. Gifts and pledges totaled $47,811,916 on Dec. 31 or 91.9 percent of the goal. 
A total of 19,647 almuni have contributed $18,131,069 to the program since mid-1967, the kickoff for the five-year campaign to generate cash and pledges of an amount that would assure Notre Dame continued eminence in the field of higher edu­cation. Non-alumni, numbering 5,224, have provided $29,680,846 toward the goal in the form of corporation and foundation gifts contributions from parents and individuals, and bequests in wills. 
Leading the group of major urban areas where large concentrations of alumni have contributed volunteer efforts is the Dayton-Springfield sector of Ohio. Gifts in this area totaled $113,998 or 325.7 percent of the $35,000 goal. Providence volunteers are close behind with cash and pledges totaling $61,928 or 309.6 percent of their goal. 
The average alumni gift to the SUMMA Program is $922.84 and the average non-alumni gift is $5,681.63. Gifts from alumni in the Challenge I Program totaled $345 and $431 in Challenge II. Non-alumni averaged $2,284 in Challenge I and $2,321 in Challenge II. 
Dr. O. C. Carmichael, Jr., is serving as national chairman of the development progarm. The 1968 yearend report showed gifts of $40,332,675 or 78 percent of the goal. 


ITS PEOPLE AND ITS LEGENDS 
\()1RF DAME. IIS PEOPI E A\|) 
I.ECiENDS b\ Fr.mcis Wall.icc :;-. 
Dasid McKa\ ( o Inc. 2"- pp. 

N."^ 4.^ Sc\cral premises preseiil theniseKes Firsl. ihis IS a _i.'cneral hisi(>r\ ii| Noire Dame, which uptlates Rev Arthur Hope's centennial \olume t>' incluJc ihe revoliinonars \ears that ha\e tolloweii World W..' II I^IK makes it a "must" tor all alumni 
A second premise is that Wallaces background will bring athletics into the general histor\ Ihis is true 
Ihe thing to remember is that Wallace h.is loni' been idenlitieil as ., com  \\hich -oi hir u,  otl He kncu ti:v!t  ^'hampKins oi i ^' .i  placed Rockiic iP  lirmanieni 
 .Most i>i all. "i, •  :he Liiixersits -Ma  phenomenon m.iti;­
 U^enties He kne\  athletic te.ims .iie  ottspnne ol hichc 
• -.uher. honoi.ir-. f  men ot skill, ntel  .'^ar.icier w'"o ^he­ competition and ti  to etuliire t'le u'isc 
startett his career iiiivler Knm Rockne. and the Rockne ix-p 
Author Wallace 

dominates the first segment In the 50 rich years that he directed the des­tinies of ND—from its found­ing to its Golden Jubilee—you find a microcosm of most of the problems of the years that have followed. But you also find the seeds of faith, of character, of determina­tion, of dedication and of competence that other men in other years had to cultivate to preserve and promote the original dream. 
Sorin's grace and style appeal to Wallace, as they appealed to the student-j, the faculty and the growing following in America and Europe he required to implement his struggle. He had imagination and flexibility. He had ecumenism. He had dissent. He also had patriotism and loyalty. It was over this solid base that the Golden Dome raised the golden statue of ND—the beacon which made the University crossroad and bridge in the 125 years of its life. 
From these deep and lasting roots, faculty members took off in new academic directions, students inquired into new fields of learning, the physical plant extended its scope to encompass this progress, and athletic teams inevitably drew the desire to compete and the will to win that burst the campus bounds. This is the story Wallace tells with relish and with reverence. 
The evolution of quality education is the theme of the second major segment, "Emergence." Practical considerations dictated from the start an elementary school and a prep school as a base for the college. So dire was the need that Sorin added a trade school and an orphanage, even an old folks' home, to his community. But the college was the dream, and it is no small tribute to Sorin that when he died in 1893 the University of ND had raised its head and shoulders well above the surrounding members of its community and was heralded by the Catholics of America as a distinguished and progressive institution. That it was still under­graduate in its scope was a tribute to the realism of its founder. 
But publications flourished (for example, the Scholastic, founded in 1867). The Alumni Assn. was organized in 1868. The first Catholic law school was established in 1869. Rev. John Zahm was opening prestigious relationships throu^ his writings and Latin American travels. His brother, Albert, was pioneering experiments in aeronautic science in a new science building. ND students were enjoying the first residence hall with private rooms—Sorin Hall. The Laetare Medal, first awarded in 1883, was the Church's greatest tribute to a Catholic layman in America. The first American campus lighted by Edison's new electric bulbs showed adaptation to progress. Rev. Thomas Walsh in 1882 solved the "law and order" crisis of an overconfident student rebellion by expelling 32 students. And in 1887 the first ND football game of record (intercolle­giate) was held. 
All this while Sorin still lived—it is a fascinating and significant story. Wallace recognizes its value and reports it well. 
Wallace tells, with the affection and respect of one who knew Rev. John 
W. Cavanaugh (the elder), the vivid history of the 14 years from 1905 to 1919 when that great orator brought to Notre Dame an internal glow of educational accomplishment and an external recognition of merit that may have been a bit brighter than actual resources would have reflected, but which were not nearly so bright as the faith in the future. World War I was ended, and the modem ND was emerging in 1919. 
Rev. J. Hugh O'l>onnell, whose own administration (1940-46) was overshadowed by World War II, once said that "the peaks of ND's history are shrouded in the mists of war." It had been that way at the Silver Jubilee in 1867 and the Diamond Jubilee in 1917, as it would be in the centenary year, 1942. 
Frank Wallace came to ND in 1919, and from this point on his history takes on the distinctive plus of the involved eyewitness. 

Rev. James Bums became presi­dent With less flair than his predecessor, he quietly brought edu­cational strength to his faculty, and in an early recognition of future development, he insisted in 1920 on a drive for a modest endowment fund ($1,000,000) to be administered by a board of lay trustees. Throughout the first 75 years, ND had no endowment except the services of religious. When Fr. Bums left ofiice in 1922 to head the endowment's successful effort. Rev. Matthew Walsh became presi­dent The veterans of World War I, in rapport with Fr. Walsh's back­
ground as chaplain, brought a definite maturing to the academic side of ND. The nostalgic prep school was abandoned in 1920. New residence halls were built to house an increased enrollment of college students. And the South Dining Hall broke into the modern world from the colorful kitchens of the nuns. It was the end of one calorie-filled era. 
Knute Rockne's showmanship, his know-how, his colorful teams, playing now coast-to-coast schedules with the nation's top teams, were tailor-made for the '20s. They cemented alumni identity and enthusiasm during and after the endowment campaign. They brought national publicity to the University, in all its phases. And they brought an his­torically lacking item—money. Their box ofHce receipts far exceeded Rockne's modest budgets, and the surplus achieved many unrelated goals on the campus. As a reward, and to escape a growing criticism of "rambling," the ND Sta­dium was built, with a modest capacity of 59,000. And when Knute Rockne's rumored resignation (1928) was followed by his tragic deadi in 1931, the roots of his genius were already too deep to die with him. 
This is obviously a segment which Wallace tells enthusiastically, authoritatively and entrancingly. 
The tenure of Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell as president (1928-34) was marked by the personality strengths that abound in ND history. Fr. O'Donnell was an English teacher, a poet of stature. He was to administer a University through the nation's greatest depression. He used 
Reviewer Armstrong 
the meager resources to build extensively, achieving economies of giant proportions and the great good will of the local community. The calm, productive and successful record of Elmer Layden's teams during this period (outstanding in public relations and revenue achieve­ment and done under the most rigorous enforcement of regulations on aid to athletes) comes in for sound treatment by the informed author. 
Rev. John O'Hara (later Bishop and Cardinal, primarily Father John) took up the reins when Fr. O'Donnell died. His simple, direct administra­tion from 1940 to 1946 accom­plished much that was lost in its lack of fanfare. Foreign scholars, graduate studies, Lobund, trustee and corporate relationships are a few of the strengths that emerge. 
Fr. J. Hugh O'Donnell, identified with the discipline of the University, but a staunch patron of athletics, extracurricular activities, and alumni, inherited the World War II years for his presidency. His heroic achievement of preserving the Uni­versity identity and laying the ground­work for its postwar recovery is somewhat lost in the magnitude of the Navy program his cooperation accomplished. 
He was succeeded in 1946 by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, a classmate of Wallace. The Cavanaugh administra­tion opened another new and distinctive era, the era of excelleiKe. With an avalanche of students, thriving alumni support and the organization of nonalumni support culminating in the ND Founda­
tion, Fr. Cavanau^ qiolli^ted 
faculty distiiicticm and student 
selecthrify and stressed the quality 
of the aeculu phase of education. 
When Rev. Theodore Hesboii^ became president in 1952, tbe stage was set by 110 yean of dedicated preparatioB for the unprecedented thrust he has given to the campus. 
Wallace, like all alumni, kxAs with keen interest and unwavering loyalty at the unfdding levtriution. He does not dismiss the Biemian and Kuharich tenures lightly, but he obviously shares the predominant sentimoit that ND's problems and programs are overflowing its athletic fields. He treats the Hesburgli philosoidiy, the student cxpressimis, the expansion of the campus under its mediation concept, and the young priests yibo emerge, seldom in the old "cassoda and capes," with the awed concentration you see on the faces of those watclung the mocMisbots. And at presnt, this is about as dose to the i^dated story of ND as any history can bring you. 
A new long'playing record "The Fighting Irish of Noire Dame" written by Francis Wdlace and narrated by well-known sports figures, is now avalable to ND alutniU and friends. Copies may be purchased by forwa-ding checks or money orders ($8.95 per copy) to Mr. Eugene Alnwick, General Manager, Mutual Sports, Inc., 135 West 50th Street, New York, N.Y. 10020. 

CLASSES 

Marble from the high seas 
A Japanese steamship captain paid a visit to the ND library in October to see the marble columns which almost "sunk" him seven years ago in the Atlantic Ocean. 
Captain Sansaku Yajima, master of the steamship which carried the marble from Casablanca to New York for use in the library, was on campus for the first time to see the finished work containing a product he delivered through the worst storm to hit the Atlantic Ocean in many years. 
Captain Yajima left Casablanca on Feb. 23, 1962, with a load of 10 long tons on his ship, the M.S. Awajisati-Marti. The trip went as scheduled until Feb. 27, when a storm in the Atlantic forced a replanning and some severe problems. The height of the waves was over 40 feet, and the captain felt that to take them on the deck of the ship would be disastrous. He explained: "The lashing wires of the marble would be cut easily because of the tremendous energy and power of the waves. If the marble moved with the waves, it would have crushed pipes and ventilators on the deck which allowed the waves to run into the hold of the ship." 
The ship captain thus "made his best efforts" to maneuver the ship so it would not take waves on the deck, and in doing so he was compelled to "heave to"—a nautical term meaning to stop the headway of a vessel—four times. The trip took seven days longer than had been planned, and both the captain and his sailors feared the entire ship might be lost because of the weight of the marble. 
But the perilous passage, described by Captain Yajima as the "most severe experience I have ever met," came to end in New York on March 29, with both the ship and the cargo safe. 
In October, when Captain Yajima sailed into the Great Lakes for the first time, with a stop at Chicago, he contacted - Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, executive vice-president of the University, and arranged to visit the campus. "He had been trying to visit the University for some years as he was quite eager to see the marble in place," Fr. Joyce said. 
The captain left ND with a picture of his visit to the library and some strong feelings about his contribution to the building. 
Examining the marble column in ND's Library are (l-r) Rev. Edmund Joyce CSC, Captain Yajima, Ted Tateishi (representing a Japanese steamship line) and Victor Schaefer. 
ability to play the violin. His arrangements in Washington Hall ranged from 
CLASS NOTES 
'Alexander's Ragtime Band' to the 
•IS NO HIPPIES, SO FAR A short, but newsy note from HAROLD MADDEN '15, CincinnaU, Ohio, was a very pleasant surprise. "It's many years since you and I were freshmen in Corby Hall. Now we have twin great-grandsons, bom last May. They fit in very nicely with our 27 grandchildren—so far—no hippies." Plans seem to be shaping up for the 1915 class reunion in June, the 55th anniversary of our graduation. L. D. KEESLAR Ch.E. '15 sends word from West Palm Beach, Fla., that he's planning on being with us in June, if God is willing. NORMAN RAMSTEAD C.E. '15 reports: "Still keeping busy doing some engineering and certain related activities. Our only travel involves trips to see ND play Michigan State and Purdue. I hope we are still able to travel next June, as I would like to attend the 55lh reunion." Another up-and-coming member of the 1915 class is EDWARD F. RIELY LL.B. who writes, "It doesn't seem possible that another year is almost gone. Was out for the Southern California game this fall. Was also in New Jersey during the fall, so I went to see ND play Army at Yankee Stadium." Ed is retired and still lives in Minonk, III. RAYMOND J. KELLY LL.B. '15 admits having passed his 75th birthday and also reports that his oldest grandson, RAYMOND J. KELLY III '63, "was married in Cleveland to Kathleen Elizabeth Brennan, a SMC giri, on Oct. 25. The wedding was in Gesu Church, on the John Carroll U. campus. The best man was the groom's brother, Michael, at present a senior at ND. The groom's father, RAYMOND J. KELLY JR. '41, is my oldest son. Mrs. Kelly and I were driven to the wedding by our youngest son, JEROME W. KELLY '53. So you see, it was really an ND affair." More cheerful news came from JOHN F. BOYLE '15, Coalgate, Okla. In addition to sending season's greetings, he said, "Have u'ckets for the Cotton Bowl—going to win." That was positive thinking. Our old friend, ALVIN "HEINIE" BERGER '15, reported a year of con­siderable activity, visiting friends at several points on the way home from Florida in the spring and entertaining relatives and friends who visited them during the year. Then, "The autumn leaves were falling and Old Jack Frost had visited us, so we winged our way by auto to our old retreat at Eustis, Fla., for the winter." That's the life, Heinie. May you enjoy many more winters in the Southland. Would that I could report in full the many items of interest in a long letter just received from HENRY J. FRAWLEY SR. '14, who resides on a large ranch near Spearfish in the Black Hills of South Dakota. I'll quote a few excerpts of interest and preserve the rest for a future issue. He mentioned "Heinie" Berger, "Dolly" GRAY, "Prep" WELLS, the triumvirate of the varsity baseball team from Corby Hall. Speaking about Prep Wells reminds me of another student of our era—the personable MIKE CARMODY, Shreveport, La. I know the angels will be singing Christmas carols for Prep and Mike. Henry wrote: "Speaking of Mike, one can't overlook his brother, ART '15—I trust he 
has recovered from his recent illness. What I remember vividly about Art was his 
classics. He was a faithful entertainer and 
a very popular student. I would be amiss 
if I didn't mention his array of starched 
Arrow collars and those classy black ties. 
He and the late DAN SKELLY, Oil City, 
Pa., made the South Bend maidens twitter 
and haw as they passed by." 
Incidentally, the younger FRAWLEY, 
HENRY J. JR. '60, was the subject of an 
interesting article entitled "Horses, Shake­
speare, and . . ." on page 30 of the 
October-November ALUMNUS. I suggest 
you look it up if you missed iL 
A sad note was received from Col. 
JOSEPH J. HEALY '15 saying, "Just 
returned from the East where I went after 
the death of my wife OcL 3. We had been 
married for over 52 years and I find the 
adjustment of my life most difiicult. Our 
local club had a Mass said at Sacred Heart 
Church at ND." May her soul and the 
souls of all the faithful departed rest in 
peace. 
Friends and former classmates of EDWARD A. ROACH '13 will be saddened to learn that his wife has been quite seriously ill for some time. It is felt that his many friends in the ND family should know about it because they will want to remember her in their prayers. I pray that God will bless her in a very special way and will send her some special cheer each day. The Roach family resides at 2161 Drury Lane, Northfield, III. 60093. 
Remember June—June 8, 9, 10—our 55th reunion. 
Albert A. Kuhle 
117 Sunset Ave. 
LaGrange, III. 60525 
'16 LOUIS TO RETURN LOUIS KEIFER '16 reports that he lives in his 29-year-old home. His wife died two years ago. He plays some golf and is president of Tribune Star Publishing Co., Terre Haute, Ind. He visits with son and family, Louis Jr., who live in California. After 54 years "out," Louis will be back at ND next June. I spent Thanksgiving with my family in Boulder Lake, Ind., where the snowmobile is very popular from November to April. 
G rover Miller 
1208 S. Main St. Racine, Wis. 53403 
'17 GIFT SUGGESTIONS CHET GRANT, director of the International Sports and Games Research Collection with headquarters in the Memorial Library on the campus, reports that CHARLIE BACHMAN called on him when he was here for the Michigan State game. Charlie 
is the author of The New Notre Dame Formation, which makes a nice birthday gift for anyone who likes football. 
BILL GRADY took his Mary and the rest of the family to the Tulane game and then showed them the French quarter of New Orleans before and after. He said the food at Brennan's is as good as ever. 
Once upon a time, and I do mean a long time ago, there was 'a student by the incredible name of DAWSON ABSHIRE in Brownson Hall, or at least that was the name he gave when he checked in from Red Key, Ind. He was a collector of fancy vests and once wore a different one for 30 consecutive days, according to actual count. 

Tour Last Chance 
for 



ROME 

A Notre Dame Escapade 
•
 A nine-day tour to the Eternal City 

•
 During Holy iVeek, March 23­31, 1970 

•
 Chartered TWA jetliners 

•
 First-class hotel accommodations, including meals 

•
 Guided tours 

•
 A slop at Vince McAloon's ND Hospitality House 

•
 Hosted by Mr. & Mrs. James E. Armstrong 

•
 For ND alumni and their immediate families 

•
 Total cost $369 per person (plus $14 taxes, services and gratuities) 


Cut Here 
To Mr. James D. Cooney Notre Dame Alumni Association Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Please send me more information about the Notre Dame Roman Escapade. 
Name Street Town State . Zip. Class­
PART TWO: Quick now, back to the 
present time. What is the connection, if 
any, with these monsters of the highway 
that pass you with the word "Abshire" 
in letters three feet high on the side of 
the truck? Let's trail him, boys, and if it 
is good old Abby, explain to him the 
meaning of the word "SUMMA," and 
prove again that truth is stranger than 
fiction. 

Ina and BERNARD VOLL, the gracious 
hostess and perfect host, entertained a 
great number of friends and classmates at 
a buffet Iimcheon before the Navy game 
in their beautiful new home on N. 
Riverside Dr. in South Bend. 
Ask PAUL FOGARTY the next time 
you see him about the weeds in the 
backyard of the house he rented with 
WALTER O'KEEFE and four others in 
South Bend during their senior year, that 
turned out to be a prize strawberry patch. 

"Very funny indeed," as the clown says on 
TV. 
If you have an occasional Mass said for 

your departed parents or relatives, why not 
switch the next time and send your stipend 
to Rev. Victor of Holy Cross House or to 
Rev. Bill McAuliffe, director of the Holy 
Cross Assn., who will put all members of 
the community to work for you with prayers 
for your intentions. How does he do it? 
Simple. He just places their names on his 
master sheet for the Golden Treasury of 
Holy Cross Prayers. There is an interesting 
tie-up here with our classmate, JOHNNY 
REYNOLDS, the noted Trappist, who 
was instrumental in bringing William J. 
out from New England to our seminary. 
This fund is used to educate the seminarians, 
as you probably know. 
Annette and JOE FLYNN have sold their 
beautiful home on the Fox River at Cary, 
111., which may mean they are going to live 
the year 'round in Pompano Beach, Fla., 
where they have had a winter home for 
years. The CARLETON BEHs are 
ensconced—where did he get that? Look 
it up, boys, look it up—in their winter home 
in Paradise Valley, adjacent to Phoenix, 
Ariz. 
The vision in red who ascended and descended the stairwell in Louie Nichols' Cafe did not arouse a single response. Are all of you old goats afraid to admit that you once knew a scarlet woman 55 years ago? We were told to sex it up and maybe you would dust off some memories that were fit to print. Speaking of sex, Hugh Hefner wants to know how many 'ITers read his magazine and how many just look at the pictures. If you ask "who is Hugh"—a bit of euphony for a change— then we must give up on you. 
If this space is blank for the next month or two, it's because your correspondent is more or less out of circulation, although we did make a diligent effort to get a fellow journalist to take over. We expect to have successive cataract operations with the customary rest period of two or three months in-between. Hopefully, we suggest that you send in any news about yourself or any other '17ers directly to TOM SULLIVAN. 
Dan E. Hilgartner, Jr. P.O. Box 75 Harbert, Mich. 49115 
'18 GOOD HEALTH Happy new year. May 1970 be a year full of good health for you and yours. Hope you were lucky too and got 

FRANCIS WALLACE'S Notre Dame: Its People and Legends in your sox. You will thoroughly enjoy reading the book. BILL ANDRES reports hell be on campus in June. A grandson, Steve, is graduating from ND and getting married the Saturday after reunion. Pleased to hear from LOUIS E. WAGNER, who writes, "re­ceived a very touching Christinas letter from JOHN LEMMER before he and Phyllis took off for Florida." FR. WIL­LIAMS hoped to be able to vacation down south for a couple of weeks in Januaiy. Alice and HEINIE BERGER, as usual, flew South with the birds from Sturgis, Mich., to Eustis, Fla. JAMES P. LOGAN wants to be remembered to "BIG FRANK." and BILL BRADBURY. Sony to report that Bill is in the V.A. Hosintal, Danville, 111. 61832. Don't know of anyone on the sick list other than Bradbury. Hope that will be my report throughout 1970— no one on sick call. 
Annie and PETE RONCHETTl report "O.K." They enjoy "Judge" JOSEPH T. RILEY'S letters, especially about football, because, Pete writes, "anyone can run with the football; all one needs is good linemen." That's easy to understand—^Pete is a monogram football lineman from way back when. 
Now from WALTER RILEY MILLER: "Hi, roomie. I have been a procrastinating scamp with enough intentions to pave a good road to Hades. Hope to see you this June. I never felt so good in years." 
Birthday greetings: March 8, HARRY 
M. BRADY, 411 W. TownUne, Payne, Ohio 45880. March 11. BRAULIO A. MUNECAS '16, 776 Georgetown St, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico 00927. March 31, HUGH S. CARROLL, 330 Mountain View Ave., San Rafael, Calif. 94901. March 31, LEO S. ZGODZINSKI '14, 183 E WOlow Dr., South Bend, Ind. 46637. April 2, DOMINIC M. NIGRO M.D. '17, 1222 McGee St, Kansas City, Mo. 64106. April 6, GEORGE E. HARBERT, 3521 I5th St Court Rock Island, III. 61201. April 9, JOHN J. VOELKERS, 1006 S. Wesley Ave., Oak Park, lU. 60304. April 19, Hon. HARRY F. KELLY '17. R.F.D. II, Gaylord, Mich. 49735. March 27. also wedding anniversary, EDWIN MORRIS STARRETT, 419 Quincy St.. Port Town­send. Wash. 98368. 
Wedding anniversaries: Feb. 5, WILLIAM 
J. NOONAN, 814 E. Gregory St. Pensacola. Fla. 32501. April 15, LOUIS H. FOLLEIT, 1303 W. Oak St., Norristown, Pa. 19401. Feb. 19, EDWIN T. BREEN, 1542 Sherwin Ave., Chicago, 111. 60626. April 14, Dr. RENE RODRIGUEZ, 2266 Broadway. Denver, Colo. 80205. April 15, JAMES 
L. SWEENEY, 1254 Milwaukee Ave., Denver, Colo. 80206. April 21, LEO P. GAUSS, 5740 E. 10th, Indianapolis, Ind. 46219. April 4, Maximilian G. Kazus, 101 Knox Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. 14216. April 26, LEO J. VOGEL '17. 286 Magnolia Place, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15228. 
Good Lord willing, hope to see you all on campus this June. May you live to be 100, enjoying every day. Peace. 
George B. Waage 3305 Wrightwood Ave. Chicago, 111. 60647 

'20 CUPPING NEWS We are indebted to our DANIEL ROBERTS for sending a clipping by columnist Jim Bishop about WALTER O'KEEFE, who in our day, was our loved and cheerful 
entertainer with his "Bit of Scotch" routine. 
Walter became a big star in the days of 
radio on his own $64 question. He still 

is "star of all stars" with his outlook on 
life after a siege in a Los Angeles hospital 
lasting 46 days. He conquered a heart 

condition followed by cancer. His home is 
912 Via Mirada, Palos Verdes Estate, Calif. 
90274. His attitude and experiences have 
been inspiring to all who have conquered 
adversities. 
I gave the column to JOHN BALFE 

who wrote a warm letter to Walter, as 
oidy John can do and, in reply, he received 
an inspiring bit of philosophy from Walter. 
John planned on a pilgrimage to the Holy 
Land in December. A delayed plan because 
of the sad death of his wife not so long 
ago. If he would put his philosophy in 
words as Walter O'Keefe did so well, it 
would add consolation and inspiration to 
many of us and to the not forgotten wives 
of our many departed class members, many 
of whom follow our activities. 

It is refreshing to look back to our SO years at ND to our present and past list of 1920 members. Five-year intervals in reunions will seem much longer to count on for many of us, so come next June. Our gathering at ND should be planned for with great anticipation. The Alumni Office will provide rooms at the Morris Inn but reservations should be made shortly with TOM SULLIVAN of the Alumni Office. The wonders of present ND with its coeds of St Mary's will inspire those who have not been there for some time. The large gathering of our class will provide half-forgotten memories of personal experiences at ND. The hoarded-up treasurer of our class, J. DEWEY ROSENTHAL, has promised to provide a couple bottles of "Rebel Yell" to sustain us. Even the reluctant and partially indifferent members of our class should join the enthusiastic members who plan to attend. 
There will be another letter to the ALUMNUS before our reunion and I beseech you to send me some reports that I can pass on. Let's encourage the "not so enthusiastic" to come! Again, SHER­WOOD DICKSON will take over the arrangements with the help of everyone. You all should have the class list of present and departed members. Help in locating members not reached by the ALUMNUS would be most welcomed. 
JOHN BALFE's letter to you in November is a reminder for more of you to respond to his good work. 
James H. Ryan 
2470 East Ave., Apt 314 
Rochester, N.Y. 14610 
'22 CLASS DONATES GIFTS 
The University has received two fine 
gifts from the Class of 1922. 
The University Archives has been 
enriched by the original, personal 
letter written by Charles Carroll of 
Carrollton, dated Jan. 5, 1789. Charies 

Carroll was a signer of the Declaration 
of Independence. 
The Rare Books Room of the 
University now contains the other 

gift, the 1653 edition of Delle Bizzarrie 
Academiche, written by Francesco 
Loredano, a senator of the Venetian 
Republic. 

Real sadness came to three 1922 families in the days approaching Christmas. Summoned to their rewards were: Mrs. Walter Shilts 
of South Bend, RAYMOND BLACK of 
Connellsville, Pa., and RAYMOND 
KEARNS of Terre Haute, Ind. We extend 
our loving sympathy to the families of 
the deceased, and assure them of our 
prayers for their dear ones. 
JEROME DIXON of Chicagoland advises that he attended the Southern California football game with Ray Reams and had a grand visit with him. Your secretary received a Christmas card from Ray postmarked Dec. 13. He died at home Dec. 20. Ray Black and Ray Keams were very loyal classmates, and both attended our 4Sth anniversary class reunion in 1967. 
Rev. JOSEPH RICK CSC of Saint Edward's U., Austin, Tex., celebrated his 41st anniversary of ordination to holy priesthood Dec. 22. Our hearty congratula­tions and best wishes to Fr. Joe, who served for many years as a missionary in Bengal and Pakistan before he returned to his homeland. 
Mrs. CHARLES B. FOLEY, widow of our beloved "Chuck" of happy memory, has left her home city of Portland, Ore. to take up residence in Richland, Wash.— the home area of Charles Foley II. 
ED BAILEY of Philadelphia sent a Christmas card from Honolulu, where he was on assignment for the Philco Co. 
Here is a note from GEORGE KERVER of Cleveland: "We were last on the campus Nov. 1 for the Navy game, which followed our usual husband and wife retreat Also, we conducted a similar retreat at the end of July. We went to the home games and a couple of weddings at ND and so we have kept in touch, but we see fewer and fewer classmates. We are as well as can be expected at our age, and manage to get around the country to visit the children, who are all happy and well along with their children. Our oldest grand­daughter in Houston, Tex., was married tliis past summer." 
G. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd., North Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
•23 GOOD MAN GONE We sincerely regret to bring you the very sad news of the passing of our dedicated and devoted class secretary, LOUIS V. BRUGGNER. Louie died Dec. 29 at 7:15 
p.m.
 of a cerebral hemorrhage. The wake was at the McGann Funeral Home, 624 N. Notre Dame Ave., South Bend. The funeral Mass was said Jan. 2 in the Holy Cross Church of South Bend. Condolences should be addressed to his widow at 1667 Riverside Dr., Apt A, South Bend, Ind. 46616. 

W.
 E. "Red" Shea Class President 


This comes as a shock but not as a complete surprise. I had spent some time with Louie at the Southern California game and at that time tried to get him to slow down; but he was entirely devoted to his family, friends, ND and especially the Class of 1923. We called him our "UtUe shepherd." Fortunately, we were able to say everything we had in our hearts to him at our last class dinner in 1968. He will never be replaced. He is now with those of our class whom he mourned so sincerely. 
Frank Wallace 
Past Class President 
"24 GOOD BEGINNING We start 1970 with pleasant and cheerful prospects. A few classmates are begiiuiing to take an interest in these notes—such as the letter from ED B. MILLER. The "B" is for Ed Brown Miller (his profes­sional monogram). He lives at 3300 N£ . 36th SL, Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 33308. We like your stationery, Ed. Any old friends who want to get a look at it could do so by dropping him a line . . . hope it prompts a get-together in this part of the winter playground. All it takes is a sparkplug. He is a former club member of the Evans­ville, Ind., and the Washington, D.C., ND Clubs. He, a vital widower since 1960, and JOHN CALLAN '24 and GEORGE LAUGHLIN '25 are contemporaries at the ND Club of Fort Lauderdale now. 
Ed was a lifer at Walsh Hall and wonders whatever happened to some of the other "inmates" of that era such as PAT CUNNINGHAM, BILL DEFFERARI and CLARENCE KERWIN. Ed says that, after he and John Callan reviewed the deceased list of '24ers, they decided on a retreat at Our Lady of Florida Monastery before Christmas to try to lay up some insurance (Ed's business). 
BILL CROOK has flooded me with letters once the ice at Pipestone, Minn., thawed a little. He is the best correspondent this column has. He was postmaster so long that I guess he wants to make sure the U.S. mail will continue in business after his recent retirement. He writes a very interesting letter, 'mates. His address is 
P.O. Box 66, Pipestone, Minn. 56164. My report of ND booster No. 1 here, Hon. Judge JOHN KILKENNY "25, indicates he is back in eastem Oregon as I write this, hunting pheasant and duck for his Christmas dinner. John, 111 bet that duck costs $100 a pound. TOM KELLEY '24, who incidentally showed the strength and control of his elbow-bending arm recently at a personal get-together, reports that VERNON RICKARD 74 is stQl in show biz and |days a part in the current hit, "Paint Your Wagon," filmed in eastem Oregon. Vernon lives at 2567 Armacost Ave., West Los Angeles, Calif. 90064. JOE C. RYAN '24 still Uves at ND Lyons Hall, retired from teaching. Fr. Tom himself resides at Christie Hall at the U. 
of Portland and is still teaching Latin and Greek. 
Now, on a sadder note, for those who do not read of the diminishing ranks in other sections and issues of ALUMNUS, we report the passing of JOHN L. DUFFY 
LL.B.
 '24, Sept. 24. Son, Roger, resides at 220 Bryant, Dubuque, Iowa 52001. OWEN 

J.
 NICHOLSON '24 died Sept. 23. His widow can be reached at 410 Citizens Bank Bldg., Norwalk, Ohio. Masses were said at ND for these classmates. 


Some of those on the move recendy: JAMES V. EGAN. TH(HMAS J. SHEEHAN and FRANK OBOYLE. If yoa want their new addresses, jtot ask, and send i s some news of yowsclf. 
James P. Durcaa 
5400 S.W. SdmOs Ferry Rd. 
Porthmd, Ore. 97225 
•25 ABUN4N Your secretary ran into FRANK STEEL and his wife in Akron. They bodi look great and were doing a bit of Christmas shopping for the gtandduMren. Frank had sad news about BERNARD W. LEY. who died Dec 6—482 Orlando Ave., Akron. Called HANK WURSR daring the hdiday week iridle visiting our Mike imd Vat Underwood in Davenport Hank had heard about Bemie's death and, as isual, promptly wrote Mrs. Ley and told her a class Mass was being said. Add Betnie to your prayer list 
I talked to PAUL ROMWEBER before 
Christmas about our gettug together at 
the furniture show in Chicago and learned 
of the sudden death of his youngest 
brother, BiO. Our deepest sympMhy to the 
Romweber family and Bemie Ley's widow. 
Dr. RAYMCMD J. SOBATZKI receiTed 
an award of merit from the American 
Society of Testing and Materiab, June 25, 
1969. He is a retired quality control super­
intendent of Rolun and Haas Co., 
Philaddphia. The award was "for his 
distingmshed service on both technical and 
administrative committees of the society, 
for the guidance of new subcommittees and 
new members and for the strong tedmical 
contributions, with special emphasis on 
the application of statistical principles to 
the evaluation of technical data." 
I talked with JACK SCALLAN wfaOe in Chicago. Jack is retired Uom the Standard Steel Car (Pullman Co.) but, like many of the dass, is very active in extracurricular activities and is on one of the ND boards. 
John P. Hurley 
2085 Brookdale Rd. 
Toledo, Ohio 43606 
•ZT BROKEN VLANS 
Our class president, DAN CUNNING­HAM, and I had pianned to get together with our wives during our trip to New Yorit As matters turned out, Dan was confined to his home with illness during my visit and we were imable to meet We did, however, talk over the telephone several times. I trust he is in good health by this time. Dan filled me in with the news of several classmates in the vicinity. 
As I suppose we must expect at this time in life, many are retired. I mention particniady FRANK MASIERSON of ElizabeA, NJ., who had been with the association of Eastern Railroads for many years; BILL DEGNAN, engineen and CHUCK BERETZ, formerly with Cadillac division of General Motors. I was aUe to reach ART MONACO while in town and he took my wife and me out to limch at a chanmng Italian restaurant Art says he is semi-re&ed but he is stilt associated with BasQ Studios in New York in a consulting capacity and seems to keep active. I talked with BQl Degnan on the teiephone; he lives in WUtfidd, NJ., pUys a lot irf golf and has ei^t grandchildren. 
After the Michigan Sute game, throu^ arrangements made with EUGENE 

Louis V. Bruggner 
KNOBLOCK, TOM DUNN, LES TRAVIS, 
Gene himself, your secretaiy, and our wives, 
we got together at the South Bend Country 
Club and had a most enjoyable evening. 
None of these four is retired. Which 
reminds me that as a matter of fact, 

lawyers, for some reason or other, do not 
seem to retire as early as men in other 
vocations. 

I have received letters recently - from 
ERMIN E. REICHERT of Long Prairie, 
Minn. He also saw the Michigan State 
game and enjoyed his visit to the school. 
He indicated later that he was interested 
in seeing the Cotton Bowl game but things 
came up which prevented him. 

HORACE SPILLER, the oil producer 
from Austin, Tex., sent me a nice letter 
in which he expressed the opinion which 
many of us share, that the times have 

never been so confusing. He is very much 
interested in helping the Discalced 

Carmelite Nuns of Burnet, Tex., to build a 
monastery. 
Clarence i. Ruddy 
111 W. Downer Place 
Aurora, lU. 60504 

• n GENEROUS CLASSMATE We were pleased that our classmate, HOWARD PHALIN, gave $250,000 toward the construction of a building to house a new Institute for Advanced Religious Study at ND. 
Congratulations to the following: Federal 
District Judge BILL JONES on being 

selected by Chief Justice Warren E. Burger 
as one of the 10 top federal jurists to 

serve on a committee on financial reporting 
and ethics; BILL O'NEILL on his election 
as chairman and chief executive officer of 
Leaseway Transportation Co.; GENE 

O'BRIEN, vice-president of Sun Newspapers, 
who was honored for his contributions to 
journalism at a testimonial dinner in 

Minneapolis attended by 400 friends with 
Senator Mondale as a speaker; BERNARD 
KORZEN for being selected by Dem­

ocratic Party slatemakers as candidate for 
Cook County treasurer; FRITZ WILSON on 
becoming a vice-president of the ND 
Alumni Assn. 

JIM SHOCKNESSY, who has handled official and unofficial duties for several Ohio governors, has resigned from the Ohio Bunding Authority. Judge Bill Jones met JACK. McSORLEY this summer in Rome during an audience with the Pope. LEO McINTYRE and JOHN BRANNON advised me of the death of VINCENT J. HENRY on Dec. 6 in Madison. Wis. Vince had operated the Fox River Motor Sales in Waukesha, Wis., for many years. He recently lived in San Leandro, Cal. He is survived by his vridow and a son. Dr. Richard Henry, a dentist, at IS Edward Av e Edgerton, Wis. 53534. 
BILL DWYER has been appointed to succeed PAT CANNY as class agent and has already sent out a very impressive letter. Thanks and congratulations to Pat on completing a most successful term of arranging for the class of "28 to be tops on contributions to the University. Bill Dwyer and JOE GRIFFIN did their usual good job in rounding up the following who attended the Rockne Memorial Diimer in Chicago in December: H. Phalin, P. QUINN, C. SCHUESSLER, E. RAFTER, 
R. MULLIGAN, E. McSWEENEY, Judge 
J. LYONS, W. LEAHY, G. McLAUGHLIN. 
J. Griffin and W. Dwyer. Ed McKeown Jr. and Dr. John Bird, an intern at Wesley 

Cultural shcick survivors 
Can you picture yourself allowing your wife to get caught up in a shopping spree — one that is inter­national in scope and happens to last for at least 12 years? If your imagina­tion is that vivid and you are in need of some advice on the finer points of such a venture, you might want to contact James W. Kelly '47. 
Jim Kelly turned his wife loose on the overseas economies back in 1958 and one question that might be ap­propriate is "Where has it gotten him?" The answer to such a query would be Karachi, Pakistan. 
It all started when Kelly joined the State Department following gradua­tion. Two years later, he teamed up permanently with pretty Barbara Sommer while both were stationed in Washington. After spending sev­eral more years in the nation's capital, the Kellys were transferred to the 
U.S. Mission to the United Nations in New York. 
Four years and a couple of children later, Kelly was appointed a foreign service officer and in 1958 moved his family to Copenhagen, Denmark. The race was on. From there it was on to Dublin, Rome, and now Karachi, where the family is currently in the midst of a three-year billet. 
The clan now includes four sons, one of whom has come Stateside to study as a freshman at Marquette this year. According to Jim, the Kellys have "maintained an 'Ameri­can' home for the family throughout all our travels." He says his brood has survived the various "cultural shocks" extremely well, and that his wife gets to be a better shopper with 

each new economy. 

Kelly serves as administrative officer to the U.S. Consul in Karachi. His responsibilities include keeping tabs on shipping and transportation, tax matters, personnel and budget and financial matters for the con­sulate. He also coordinates security and supervises the American medical unit locally, which helps make his job a full one. 
The atmosphere of their new Asian surroundings is entirely unique to the Kellys after the cosmopolitan environs of Europe. The climate in Karachi, which is located in east Pakistan, is hot and humid with temperatures soaring over the lOO-degree mailc frequently in the summertime and hovering around the SO^gree level during the winter. 
Kelly indicates that living abroad has been a tremendous experience for him and his family but living in Pakistan has given them "a great sense of isolation. It's like living on an island." There is little outside entertainment, but Kelly says, "We make our own, mostly by entertaining in our homes." Life is a bit more primitive in Karachi, where all drink­ing water has to be boiled and all leafy vegetables soaked in an iodine solution before being eaten. 
Despite the thrills of living around the world, Kelly looks forward to the day when he will take his family to a place where maintaining an Amer­ican home will be the rule rather than the exception. Then his wife can start a shopping spree closer to home. 
Jim Kelly in a familiar pose — traveling aboard a ferry. 
Memorial Hospital, represented their 
fathers. ED McKEOWN, who is honorary 
president of the Chicago ND Qub, was 
ill and could not attend. 
I was i^eased to hear that Rev. JIM 
McSHANE SJ survived the invasion, the 
hurricane and the floods in Honduras. 
NEIL AMIOT called my attention to 
BILL DAILY being president of the Fort 
Lauderdale ND Qub. 
Howie Phalin advised that JIM HARRIS, 
who was with us in Freshman Hall, had a 
coronary and is retired and living at 4S70 
Alvarado Cn. Rd. No. 29, San Diego, Cal. 
92120. BERNIE CAREER reports that 
DICK PARRISH, editor of the West 
Virginian, founded "Operation Stonewall," 
which brought an exchange of letters, gifts 
and photos among citizens and young men 
in Vietnam. Bemie and GEORGE 
CRONGEYER represented the class at the 
New York Communion-dinner. 
Add the following to the retirement 
list: George Crongeyer, RAY LUSSON, 
MIKE HOGAN and Ray Mulligan. Please 
keep me posted on additions to this list. 
Dr. PAUL TOBIN, president of the 
Sherman Hospital medical staff, Elgin, 111., 
has been a member of the staff for 33 years 
and continues in the practice of orthopedic 
surgery. Three ND sons of classmates, 
JIM ALLAN III, LEO McINTYRE and 
TOM WALSH (son of Vince), are working 
at the Continental Illinois National Bank 
and Trust Co. in Chicago. 
Bemie Garber met Helen and CHARLIE 
SHELANSKEY at the Army game in New 
York. They were celebrating their 35th 
wedding anniversary that day. BILL 
MURPHY teUs me that FRANK 
MCCARTHY passed his C.P.A. exam in 
Indiana recently. Bill visited Tom Walsh 
in Lincoln, III. 
CHARLIE DUCEY, deputy supreme knight, sent me the Knights of Columbus News for Dec. S, 1969, which carried a picture of Ed McKeown, Leo Mclntyre, BERNARD BIRD, TOM MAHON, JOHN FREDERICK and your class secretary as officers of the ND Council during 1927-29. The picture had been taken by FRANCIS MEYER at our 14th annual cocktail party after the Southern Cal game. Thanks to RUSSEL SMITH, we have again located JOHN GAUGHAN. John is back in the 
U.S. where he is assigned on a steam-electric power plant construction job in Hot Springs, Ark. John and Blanche live there at I2S Manor Place. John promises to attend our 4Sth reunion. The Chicago Tribune carried a headline "Texas-Irish Bowl Tilt Recalls Days of Chevigny" with pictures and a story on John in the Dec. 27 
Louis F. Buckley 6415 N. Sheridan Rd. Chicago, III. 60626 
•29 SWITCHES We have these new addresses for you to note: ARTHUR W. FLEMING M.D., 611 Church St., Ann Arbor, Mich., JAMES E. DIGAN. 6219 Murdock, Sarasota, Fla; JOHN V. LEDDY, Wendelin Town House, North, E. Lake Blvd., Mahopac, NJ. Prof. PAUL BARTHOLOMEW was on leave fiom ND for about half of last year. He and Agnes have been kind enough to share some of their around-the-world experiences with our readers, both fellow travelers and would-be travelers. Your 
secretary has had the privilege of seeing some of the excellent colored slides taken on their trip. Paul writes, "1 am sorry to 
have missed the reunion and seeing all the 
friends there, but I hope to make the next 
one. As you know, I was in Dublin from 
January doing research on the Irish court 
system and the Irish judges as well as 
lecturing at the National U. there. 1 also 
lectured at Trinity College in Dublin, U. 
College in Galway and Queen's U. in 
Belfast" 
The principal occupational hazard of a 
class secretary is that of running short of 
news for a column, another is that of 
submitting a bit too much and having it 
returned for use later. This item falls into 
that category. 
BOB NEWBOLD, Indianapolis writes: 
"Rev. Ronan Newbold CP, the younger of 
our two sons, will be ordained May 24 and 
will say his first Mass June 8. I would 
sure be with my classmates if I didn't have 
this conflict. Ronan studied with the 
Passionist Fathers in Warrenton, Mo., where 
he was a star athlete. He has studied at 
SL Meinrad, Ind., and Catholic Theological 
Union in Chicago. He has given retreats 
for teen-agers in the Midwest and served on 
the Christian Appalachian Project in 
Kentucky. He was a deacon at St. Maurice 
parish in Chicago, and has studied at 
Columbia U. and at the U. of Dayton in 
preparation for missionary work in Japan." 
Bob, you and JOE KRAKER and other 
fathers of priests will have to compare 
notes in 1974 at our 45th. 
We sincerely regret having just recently 
learned of the Aug. 7, 1%7, death of 
EUGENE W. RHEAUME B.C.S. "29. We 
trust that you will remember him in your 
prayers. The address of Gene's family is 
24127 Rockford, Dearborn, Mich. 
From ILLIE BYRNE ". . . because of 
the '29 column I recently had the pleasure 
of a visit from Rev. MAURICE FITZ­
GERALD '31, retired Paulist from old SL 
Mary's in San Francisco whose local address 
is 7600 Soquel Dr., Aptos, Calif, not far 
from our little white house on the 11th 
green of the Aptos Beach golf course, 414 
Dorsey Ave., Aptos, Calif. 95003. Father 
was preparing to leave for Ireland. He told 
us of his trip around the world on the 
S.S. President Roosevelt as chaplain. I am up and about but not too well. I'd be glad to hear from any of my classmates or to have them visit with us when in the Monterey Bay area." 
We each have a reasonably up-to-date class roster, why not use it to advantage in 1970? Will there be a better time? 
Lawrence F. Stauder Electrical Engineering Department 
Engineering BIdg. 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'3» MEMORIAL FUND BEGUN 
It is very painful to have to report to you 
the sudden death of VERNON "BUCK" SLACK in South Bend, Dec. 1. He had been living in South Bend for the past 25 years while he was associated with Bendix, and later. International Salt. The shock of this is more severe in that I had enjoyed a delightful Thanksgiving dinner at his home three days before his death, and we had talked at length about reum'on i^ans. Buck's associates in International Salt have created a Slack Memorial Scholarship Fund for ND and are channeling it throu^ the local St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club, which has maintained for many years such scholarship funds for needy and deserving students. They have invited interested classmates of Buck to join in this memoiial if they wisb. 
JOHN GOLDEN sent along some good 
ideas for transportation at the reunioii. He 
also voudied for the attendance of JOE 
BUTLER. BILL McCARTHY and FRAN 
HETREED. Now he win line up his <M 
roommate, JOE McCABE. 
I know CHET ASHMAN got down to 
the Cotton Boiri because we had some 
correspondence about that trip. He will be 
here for the reunion, so he i^ans. 
Reunion memories are usually pleasant 
but a very sad note has to be reported 
about one of our best reimion promoters. 
FRAN MESSICK. died in Troy, Mich.. Dec 
30. In his long period of residence in South Bend, he was a most active ND alunmus. He assisted in all the tough alimmi projects that required intensive effort for success. Fran was the local chairman of our 30th reimion (the 30-30 affair), and his trumpet solos contributed a lot of fun to all the 1930 dass mmions. 
Oidy recently did word reach us of the death some time ago of JOSEPH H. MANLEY who died in Tacoma. Wash.. May 8, 1969. and also of E. RICHARD WALTER, whose death occurred in Oak Park. 111.. May 17, 1968. 1 know that class members will remember them and their families in prayer. 
Devere T. Plunkett 
O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

•SI TAKES CARE OF BUSINESS Happy new year and a wonderful 1970 to the men of the Class of 1931. Deadline on news is Jan. 5, so this is the first order of business. 
A few more notes on our 1969 reunion. LEO KLETZLY could not make it as he had another heart attack, although not too serious, he said. He hopes that all his fine friends from '31 are weU. ART McMANMON sent regrets as he had to be on hand for the 1929 team reunion at the us e game weekend. Also sending regrets were JIM BIGGINS and ED MADDEN, who attended the USC game with their wives. BOB GORE missed it too. HARRY KENNEDY tried, but missed through some confusion on tickets. Rev. ALOYSIUS DAYBERRY, Richland Hills. Tex., sent regrets as distance and pastoral obligations prevented any return to the campus. I am hopeful that he was able to make the Cotton Bowl game yesterday. 
Our traveling classmate, FRANK BUTORAC, saw the following at the 1929 team reunion: TOM MONAHAN. CARL CRONIN, ROY BAILIE, JOE SAVOLDI, FRANK LEAHY, BERNIE LAHEY. MARTY BRILL, TOM CONLEY. JACK SAUNDERS, BERT METZGER, AL GRISANTI and many others from the two national championship teams. Frank attended the Cotton Bowl game and I hope he will come up with a report on classmates seen there. F. X. MURPHY wrote on his Christmas card, "sure enjoy the news, but we are getting closer to the front of the ALUMNUS every year." DAVE RUSK has retired and is now living at WiOiaffls Bay, Wis. 53191. P. O. Box 891. EARL BRIEGER sent a yellow tear-out card telling of a visit to Texas, where he saw BILL BERNING. Bill was recovering from a heart attack at that time and Earl indicated he died in December. leaving his widow. Gladys, and son. Bill Jr. Earl sends his best wishes to classmates and is enjoying Our Lady's blessings with 
eight grandchildren. Word was also received of the death of 
J. LANSING MacINTYRE, Billings, Mont, whose son, BRUCE, is a member of the class of '59. Please remember Bruce and Bill in your prayers. I also had a note from Marie McQuaid and a clipping showing her presenting the JIM McQUAID trophy at Vincennes U. She sends warmest greetings and thanks for the many kind­nesses extended to her and Jim by our class. 
CHARLES B. CUSHWA, according to a note from the Alumni Office, headlined the honorees at the annual Baseball Town 
U.S.A. Old-timers Assn. dinner-dance in November at Youngstown, Ohio. Charley was named "King of the Realm," an individual who is outstanding in community and charitable promotions. 
We have a reservation for a 1970 reunion party following the Army-ND game in the Monogram Lounge of the new ACC. Please remember this when ordering tickets for this season's games. Best wishes to all and don't forget to send some news regularly. 
James T. Doyle 1567 Ridge Ave. Evanston, 111. 60201 
'32 TRAVELING MAN Two letters from regular contributor RAY GEIGER: "I have been all over the country appearing on radio and TV programs to promote Farmer's Almanac. In Louisville, I had a call from BILL KIRBY who is still working in Chicago. Then in Washington, D.C., I dropped in to see JOHN RYAN at the National Catholic News Service and had a great reunion. In Philadelphia, I had an opportunity to visit on the phone with VINCE "ARCHIE" DONOHUE, super funeral director of Upper Darby whose two sons are in business with him. While I was in Schenectady appearing on a radio program, I put out a call for our old classmate, CHUCK FOGARTY, who is with the Rensselaer County Welfare Department in Troy. He is indeed the same gay, cheerful Chuck of old, working hard to support eight children and still a real ND man. Let's hope we can get Chuck back to the reunion. My travels this fall have taken me to 30 states, where I've appeared on 311 radio and TV programs and had interviews by some of the finest newspapers in the country. It can truly be said I am working my five children through college on the pages of the Farmer's Almanac. I had two national appearances on Monitor over the NBC network and the Mike Douglas program on which I was the guest with Douglas Fairbanks Jr. Kind personal regards, Ray." 
A post card from MICHAEL "KELLY" POWERS' wife, "Shorty," to let us know they have bought a house and settled down at 2181 N.E. 62nd Court, Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 33308. Imagine their surprise to learn that their postman has a son at ND living in Walsh Hall where Mike lived. Shorty says they have an enclosed swim pool—"come on down." 
A welcome letter from HERB GIORGIO: "Rita and I went to New Orleans and took in the Tulane game. Dined at all the famous restaurants. It was our first trip without our girls, now 3 and 4 years old. In New Orleans, ran into DOMINIC NAPOLITANO, ED MULHERN and ED KOLSKI and sat next to TOM FEELEY. Tom said he sees JIM IGOE, 

the OELERICHs, TERRY DILLON 

around Chicago. My brother Doug's son, 
my godson, Herbert Giorgio, is a freshman 
at ND. Last spring in South Carolina 1 
ran into MURRAY BOOTH on his way 
back to Cape Cod. Also had a card from 
Rev. "HACK" WILSON from Istanbul. 
I see GENE CONNELLY often." Thank 
you. Herb. 

We received the sad news that JOHN 
J. COAKLEY died in November and JOSEPH B. SIEMER died in September. Masses are being offered for them at ND. And last, but certainly not least, the wonderful Christmas card from the MARLEYs—FRANK and Barbara and their great family. 
Florence J. McCarthy 
6 River Rd. 
Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
'33 HE'S STARTLED 

Our pre-Army game reunion, OcL 10, 
was a startling success. Although LUCIEN 
KEMPF from Oklahoma broke the 

traveling record, we had lunners-up with 
DON WISE from Joliet, JACK 
O'SHAUGHNESSY from Chicago, 

LARRY SEXTON from Indianapolis and 
Judge MIKE O'HARA from Michigan. 
When I reached the BOtmore lobby, the 
first person I saw was J. MARSHALL 
McAVENEY, who had just popped in from 
his State Department duties in Hong Kong. 
He couldn't stay because of a prior com­
mitment 

Registration at the Vanderbilt Suite was 
handled by Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES 
QUINN and their wonderful son, Paul. 
Name tags were given to our classmates, 
their wives and guests. The bar was well 
run by a competent and friendly staff pro­
vided by the Biltmore. The hors d'oeuvres 
were delicious and in amide supidy. We owe 
GEORGE ROHRS a vote of thanks for 
making such excellent arrangements. 

On the welcoming committee were SAM HYDE, JACK HOYT and JACK SOISSON. Short speeches were made by ED ECKERT and Jack O'Shaughnessy, both past class presidents. PETE CONNELLY had a lengthy address prepared but his wife, Dottie, hid the manuscript Larry Sexton planned to run the movies of the 1%3 500 Mile Race, but some fanatic pulled the projector plug. 
Our wives added beauty and color to the event As Msgr. FRANK HARRISON said: "How did all these young ladies marry such old men!" Irene guessed she was just lucky. From other classes we had TIM TOOMEY '30 and CONAL BYRNE '36. TONY PUGLIESE was a welcome visitor and he promised to be with his classmates at future reunions. FRED FAYETTE looked as fit as he did when on the old Carroll interhall team. BILL HIGGINS had to leave early to put out the largest New York Sunday News ever published. (I bought the paper. Bill, and could hardly lift it) 
After the event many of us adjourned to Neary's Pub and later to the hospitality of Kate and DAVE O'DELL at 56th and Sutton Place. Dave is the old Holy Cross warrior who escaped West Point and the tutelage of Marty Maher. 
If I've missed anyone, idease write. Charlie, Sam and I tried to keep a correct list but I'm sure we unintentionally missed someone. Classmates registered were: JOE BORDA, ANDY BOTTI, CHARLIE CONLEY, Pete ConneUy, Ed Eckert, PHIL 
FAHERTY, Fred Fayette, JERRY FIN­
NERAN, BOB GELHAUS, HARRY 
GRATTAN, Msgr. Frank Harrison, Bill 

Higgins, STEVE HOLLERAN, Jack Hoyt, 
Sam Hyde, LUCIEN KEMPF, JACK 
KENNEY, Judge Mike O'Hara, Jack 
O'Shaughnessy, Tony Pugliese, Charlie 

Quinn, George Rohrs, JIM ROSS, Larry 
Sexton, GEORGE SHIBEN, Jack Soisson, 
Dr. FRED WENIGER and DON WISE. 
THOMAS "KITTY" GORMAN writes 
from Peoria that he's been restricted in 
his travels because of a coronary. He 

hears regularly from MARTY LINSKEY. 
The Gormans are grandparents. Their 

daughter, Ann, who is now Mrs. William K. 
Hogan, Alexandria, Va., had a lovely baby 
gill. Heather, Sept 22. Kitty extends his 
best to all our mutual friends and says 

he is proud to see the success most of our 
classmates have enjoyed since the years 
which are now referred to as the Great 
Depression. Mary and VINCE BURKE 
send greetings from-Pittsburgh. 
Rita S. Nesbit sent the sad news that 

her husband and our classmate, ROBERT 
J. NESBIT, died of a severe coronary attack July 29, 1968. Their son, ROBERT, was graduated in June '69, magna cum laude, from the ND College of Science as a physics major. It is regrettable that Bob could not have been at the commence­ment to share in the joys and honors. Mrs. Nesbit's address is: 34 Hmview Ter., Pittsfield, Mass. 01201. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her and to the family. 
Charles A. Conley 
100 East TurnbuU Ave. 
Havertown, Pa. 19083 

^ MOVING '34ERS With this issue of the ALUMNUS I have many changes of address. EDWARD M. FARLEY has moved to 12946 Valleyheart Dr., Studio City, Calif. 91604. JOSEPH RAYMOND GLENNON JR. can be reached at Box P, 108 S. Dartmouth, Mass. 02748. WILLIAM HENRY KILLOREN's new address is 1412 Hawthorne Place, St Louis, Mo. 63117. Mail sent to PAUL HUBERT LA FRAMBOISE has been returned to the University marked address unknown. If any of you have Paul's new address, please mail it to the Alumni Assn. at ND, or to your secretary. Many of you may remember that Paul earned his monogram in track. 
JOSEPH HENRY REGAN has moved to 14808 Cobblestone Dr., Silver Springs, Md. 20904. GEORGE ALEXANDER ROCHELEAU is at 1205 Sherwin Ave. Chicago, III. His phone number is HO 5-1205. JOHN YOUNGREN, of Aurora, III., tells me the LaSalle National Bank, 135 S. LaSalle St Chicago, 111., does not make loans on submarines. How about green subs, John? 
Evelyn and JOHN CARMODY of Moberly, Mo., sent on a clipping from the St. Louis Globe-Democrat. The report tells of the work done by our classmate. Dr. JAMES P. MURPHY. Dr. Murphy has been a member of the faculty of the de­partment of internal medicine at St Louis 
U. since 1946. Jim received his B.S. degree from ND and his medical degree from St Louis U. Jim was chosen as one of 10 alumni to receive the Alumni Merit Award. Dr. Murphy is on the staff of St Mary's and Deaconess Hospitals. 
JOHN J. MCLAUGHLIN of Rhode 

Island reports that MOOSE KRAUSE 
spent Labor Day with him at his summer 
home on the Cape. John suggests we have 
a reunion in January or February of 1971 
at one of the home basketball games. 
How does this idea grab you? 
JOE CLARK reports he was in Byrom, 
Conn., in November to attend a wedding. 
Dorothy's cousin from Ireland was mar­
ried there. The Alumni Office reports that 
JAMES C. FESLER is now manager of 
industrial engineering at Babcock and 
Wilcox Co.'s naval nuclear fuels plant in 
Lynchburg, Va. He and his wife, Pauline, 
have three children. 
The ND Club of Chicago held its 
annual Rockne Night Dinner Dec. 8 at 
the Sherman House Hotel. Msgr. 
JAMES MOSCOW, chaplain for the club, 
gave the invocation. Also in attendance 
was FRED WEIDNER, the LaPorte, Ind., 
flash. Fred is with Sears, Roebuck and 
lives in West Chicago, III. 
Received three Christmas cards with 
some news for the column. ED RYAN of 
St. Paul sent a photo taken at the reunion. 
Seven of our classmates were included 
in the picture. CHARLEY QUINN reports 
he will be happy to caddy for DAN 
BRICK in Palm Beach this winter. BILL 
MOTSETT now has another classmate in 
Pompano Beach since AL MONACELLI 
moved there. 
RAY and Beachie TROY's card arrived 
with news from South Orange, N J. 
His son, RICK '67, and daughter, Lynn, 
Rosary College '68, each have their own 
apartment. Ray informs me that the latest 
Irish curse goes as follows: "May the 
Dallas police protect you!" Ray also 
informed me that JIM FAGAN is down 
in Puerto Rico lining up the girls for 
our 40th reunion. 
On Dec. 27 we were invited to the wedding of Kathy Quirk to Michael Goggin in Oak Park, III. Kathy is the daughter of JACK QUIRK. It was a small reunion for the class of '34 with Quirk, IRV KIEP and MORAN represented among many other ND men. ED BUTLER of Philadelphia reports his wife, Isabel, has returned to teaching high school and is having a ball. Daughter, Michelle, graduated from Immaculata College and daughter, Fenton, is a sophomore at Boston College. 
DANIEL J. BRICK has moved his law office to Bronxville, N.Y., after 30 years in New York City. Too much "Fun City" in New York, Dan reports. John Car­mody hopes to make it back for a re­union before his son, John Francis Jr. makes it to ND. Junior was bom Aug. 18, 1956. 
Ed Moran Moran Supply Co. 2501 N. Central Ave. Chicago, 111. 60639 
•35 VIA THE GRAPEVINE Through the grapevine I learned that SANDY SANTANIELLO and his wife plan to make the reunion in June. I be­lieve this will be the first for Sandy in many years, and hope that others who haven't been regulars will do likewise. 
As I started to write this column two days before Christmas, I received a note from ANDY MAFFEI with the sad news that two more of our classmates died. BOB FORBES died in San Juan rather suddenly Dec. 14, and was buried there. 
JOHN TOMKOWID died in Yonkers, 
N.Y., about a month ago. John was a 
purchasing agent for Otis Elevator, and 
is survived by his widow and two chil­
dren. Masses will be offered by our 
class for both Bob and John. 
As a result of letters from the South 
Bend reunion committee, we have received 
several encouraging answers. Andy is 
working up some steam in his area, 
along with MIKE SANTULLI, PHIL 
HEINLE and JOE SCHMIDT, all of 
whom will be at the reunion, as in the 
past. BILL KENNEDY is doing the same 
thing in his area, and promises to have a 
representation from the Eastern seaboard. 
PHIL PURCELL will be with us if the 
marriage date of his son, Paul, scheduled 
for the early part of June does not con­
flict. The same is true of FANK HOCH­
REITER, who expects to return with his 
wife, Carolyn. Their daughter, Mary 
Chris, also expects to be married some 
time in June. We were glad to hear 
from "Hoch" after many years, with a 
fill-in about his family. Daughter Claudia 
was married in mid-1967 and made Frank 
a grandfather six months ago. His stepson-
in-law is with ABC as a producer of news 
shows, and an older stepson graduated 
from Cornell. A younger stepson is on the 
faculty of Prince George's College near 
Washington. His wife, Carolyn, is a public 
health educator with the Maryland State 
Department of Health, and "Hoch" is 
executive secretary of the Commission on 
Problems of the Aged in Baltimore. 
JIM KEOUGH passes the word that he is now retired in Tucson, Ariz., after selling two enterprises he has been engaged in these past years. The Keoughs have two sons, both in the Air Force, and a married daughter. Jim said to put him down as a definite returnee next June. 
As Chairman McCRALEY said in his Dec. 17 letter, the plans for the reunion are "jelling," and you will be hearing more from him in the early months of 1970. Our most important objective, even ahead of the "red carpet" treatment, is to have the largest percentage of returnees that we have ever had. If you are planning to attend, your help would be very much appreciated in contacting your buddies whom you would like to see, to join the trek to the Midwest. 
W. F. Ryan 1620 E. Washington South Bend, Ind. 46617 
•36 '36ERS REPORT From JOE NEUWIRTH: "Since leaving ND I graduated from Vanderbilt U. Law School in '39. Practiced law couple of years in Greenville, S.C, before enter­ing Air Force in '42. After demobilization, I have been in government work of vari­ous types, U. S. Department of Agriculture 
V. A., U. S. Treasury and now here in St. Louis as supervisor of hiunan re­sources development program for Missouri division of employment security. Have been back to ND for at least one football game the last three years. Could not find anything but the stadium." 
From WOODY STILLWAGON, who is still with Continental Can in charge of industrial relations: "My wife, a nurse, is handling chores in the recovery room at Mercy Hospital. Woody Jr. is an engineer with Union Carbide working at the plant in Cleveland. My son, Tom, is teaching and coaching at Graham High School in SL 
Paris. Has his master's from Miami of Ohio and is giving serious consideration . to entering Ohio Suie for a doctotate. 
Jim, the yoimgest, is at Ohio Sute and is 
a member of Woody Hayes Kiddy Kotp. 
As a sophomore, he started at middle 
guard and made the second All Big Ten 

Team." 
MIKE McGUIRE and ROBERT OVER­MEYER are working for CCC in ML Vernon. Both are graduates of the chemistry school. Several weeks ago, I talked with ANDY HELMUTH. who is in the insurance and real estate business. His oldest son is a recent graduate of ND. Woody was in the process of arranging a reunion when JOE McDONALD would make his next trip to ML Vernon. Joe is with the CCC purchasing department in New York. He has a son at ND. Woody met WILLIAM DARCY a whfle back. He is a technical sales representative for Hol­land Suco, and living in Holland, Mich. Bill mentioned to Woody that he had never made a retmion but intends to make it in '71. GARY ARMSTRONG '66 married a neighbor of Woody's and was discharged from the 2Sth Infantry Division in September, 1968, and at present is a sales engineer with G.E. in San Francisco. Woody wouM like to hear from "JUNGLE JIM" DMTYER, even his present address would suffice. 
JOSEPH P. FOX writes that he is president of Champion Products, Inc., a company which provides ND with the best of its athletic physical calisthenics and campus casual wear. He is on the campus at least once or twice a year. CHARLES 
H. CLARK'S dau^ter. Cathleen, entered Harriman College in September. Hb son, James, attended Niagara U. Charles hopes to visit the campus in '71. 
Dr. LOUIS T. GABRIEL has an­nouiKed the opening of his new office at 125 W. Frack SL, FrackvOle, Pa. He has addressed numerous groups, including the American Society for Clinical Research in Chicago; American College of Surgeons, Boston; Detroit Physiological Society; Detroit Surgical Assn.; and the department of surgery at the U. of Michigan. He also presented scientific exhibits at the meeting of American Medical Assn. at Atlantic City and the American College of Surgeons in San Francisco. He is co­author of a surgical monograph, printed in Ann Arbor, and is a contributing author to the book, Sutgkal Forum, pubUshed by the Saunders Co., Philadelphia. He has had several articles published in national medical and surgical journals. He is a certified diplomat of the American Board of Surgery; a fellow of the American College of Surgeons; and member of the American Society for CUnical Research. He is now a member of the surgical staff of the Ashland State General Ho^tal. Louis and his wife have five sons. 
ELIAS HOYOS ARANGO works with 

three other ND alumni in the central offices 
of the Esso Colombiana at Bogota, an 
affiliate of New Jersey. 
JOHN C. BRADY'S son, Michael, was 

accepted as a freshman at ND in tnedian­
ical engmeering last fall. I hope John and 
the Mrs. had a pleasant trip accompanying 
Michael to school. They also got to the 
ND-USC game, which must have been 
quite a thriller. 
I'm sorry to report the death of JOHN 

HOPKINS OcL 9. Remember him in yiKir 
prayers and Masses. 
Sorry also for all the late news. As the 
old saying goes, better late than never. There are not enough hours in the day to do all the rewriting of news that you send. However, in the future I'll try to do my best to remedy this situation. 
Larry Palkovic 
303 Mechanic St. 
Orange, NJ. 07050 
'3S GUESSING GAMES 
One of the class's four great journalists 
— I'll let you guess who the other two are — EDWARD J. "EDDIE" BRENNAN, 811 Lincoln St, Evanston, 111., broke 32 years of silence with the following titillating tome: "Your 'never hear from him' barb (Oct ALUMNUS) drove into our midriff of silence like the shock of a Homung block. It also applied the tur­pentine. Thus, we repose on our bulging posterior and strive to get even. 
"In retrospect however, we're not all 
bad. We blush slightly as we lean on the 
crutch of yesteryear; we recall an attempt 
to establish a franchise in the form of an 
annual communique to original class 
secretary, HAL WILLIAMS, intoning the 
activities of the north side mob. Somehow 
a fateful day in December, 1941, broke 
the continuity. . . . 
"On pleasant occasion, however, we see 
on the north shore of mortgaged suburbia 
such august brethren as JOHN BOURKE, 
JOHN THOMAS, DICK CARRIGAN, 
BILL ARMEL, GEORGE ELMORE and 
LEN SKOGLUND who defected to the 
western suburbs. . . . 
"DICK CARRIGAN is sire of eight, five of whom are redheads. Of exceptional human interest is the recent marriage of his eldest RICHARD JR. '66, to Mary KRAUSE, daughter of MOOSE. Dick is president and head of United Wirecraft a metal manfucturing firm, and he also pours it on after hours as local chairman of CEF, an organization bent on state aid for private schools. 
"Walk across Michigan Avenue . . . chances are you'll see GEORGE ELMORE, art portfolio in hand, stalking one of the city's ad agencies. The father of five, he lives in nearby Wilmette. 
"About the time our neighbors to the north lost the Braves to Atlanta they gained BILL ARMEL. The Armels own a few shingles atop the ND-St Mary's roof. Winsome wife Jane was of our vintage, across the way. Daughters, Nancy and Susan, perpetuated tradition with husbands, GEORGE MADDOCK and PHIL HALEY, '63 and '66. . . . 
"In northwest Evanston, you'll find JOHN THOMAS, wife Ellen and youngest of five sons, George . . . three have mar­ried and another is on naval duty in the Mediterranean. John is collecting hash-marks by the decade as director of labor relations. United Biscuit Co. 
"Meanwhile, all's well. Career-wise, we are in our 18th year on the Chicago advertising sales staff of McGraw-Hill pub­lications. On personal side, live with wife, Joan, and six splendid species, three and three, in Evanston. And as one who forsook bachelorhood in 1952, would you say we've won our monogram? Or are we like the Mets of '69 — slow start strong finish? 
— Eddie Brennan." 
Christmas was made more enjoyable with cards from CHARLES "CHUCK" DALY, wife, Betty, and daughters. Holly and Sharon from West Palm Beach, Fla., with newspaper pictures of Holly hostessing at 
opening of Gallery Gemini where 
Sharon has paintings; from PAUL 
HUGHES, Flint Mich.; Dr. DAN 

MONAGHAN and wife, Betty, from Silver 
Spring, Mo., but on their way to the 
Cotton Bowl (send report, Dan); HAL 
LANGTON and wife. Dot, from Pleasant-
ville, N.Y.; and also from my old roomy, 
JOE WEHRLE, who isn't so old after all 
as he has remarried following the death 
of his first wife several years ago. 

ERNIE KLING, formerly electrical engi­
neer at Cape Canaveral, has moved to Cali­
fornia, 1548 Brentford Ave. Westlake Vil­
lage, near Oxnard, 45 miles north of 
L.A. into a four-level house with cathedral ceilings to accommodate the theater organ he bought Wife, Kay, says Ernie fills their smog-free mountains with beautiful music. Next trip West we're looking them up and I'll accompany him with my harmonica to "Cheer, Cheer, etc." 
BOB DOYLE and wife, Helen, (SMC '38) sent a "hello" from North Platte, Neb., where he has a group of variety stores since 1962 and "beautiful hunting." 
I'm sure all of you resolved to write to me at least once in 1970. Live up to it 
Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 46625 
'40 THE NUMBERS SAY . . . 

30 — 40 — 70!! The numbers predict it!! 
30TH REUNION FOR MEN OF '40 IN 
70 will be the greatest ever. Make your 
plans and contact old friends to make cer­
tain we all will be on campus June 12, 13 
and 14, 1970, for the best reunion ever. 
One of our regular returnees who did not miss reunions was called from us recent­ly, but I know JACK PINDAR will be with us in our hearts. John A. Pindar of South Orange, NJ., was killed in an auto accident Dec. 22. As you know. Jack was active in many ND activities and served as state chairman for some of the alumni drives. He was a senior member in the law firm of Pindar, McElroy, Connell, Foley and Geiser, a member and trustee of the New Jersey Trial Lawyers Assn. He and his wife, Jane Bunch Pindar, a SMC graduate, had four children — two daugh­ters and two sons. We express our sincere sympathy to his family and assure them that both they and Jack will be remembered in the prayers of all of his classmates. 
BILL O'BRIEN forwarded me the in­formation about Jack with the added nota­tion that he plans on making the retmion. Saw DAVE HYDE at the Navy game and he looks just as prosperous as ever. He as­sured me that AL FUNK was still going great in LaCrosse, Wis. Although I was outside of Gate 3, I missed seeing BOB FROST and JIM DONOGHUE who were there. Had a veiy pleasant visit with HUGH O'DONNELL and his lovely wife after the Air Force game. 
My man has picked up somewhat, but 1 expect much more in the next few months from all of you expressing your intentions to make the reunion. The Honorable JOHN C. (JACK) DILLON made me feel better by helping me with some informa­tion. After being appointed by the governor to fill a vacancy on the Common Pleas Court in 1968, he was elected to a full term of 10 years last November. His brother, CHARLES DILLON '41, was bis campaign manager and obviously did a fine job. Jack and his wife, the former Catherine Steble, have two boys and two girls. He completed his law schooling at Harvard and has 
been in Butler, Pa., ever since. Unfortu­

nately, a state-wide judicial conference is 
interfering with our reunion, so some of 
you influential Easterners see that it is 
changed. 

GENE BICHON wrote a modest letter 
from Bremerton, Wash. That is quite a dis­
tance from Paducah, Ky., where he was 
the last time I heard from him. He is 

working as an engineer and recently won 
a "benny suggs" award (i.e., a beneficial 

suggestion). Gene did not give any more 
information, but at least responded to 
my comment on the silence of the men 
of'40. 

JOHN M. CURRAN, known to all as 
Doc, wrote a special Christmas note to 

assure me that he will be at the reunion. 
He is with Ford Motors in the training 

program and sees many of the more recent 
ND graduates, but not many of 30 
years ago. 

From a special source I received word 
that our expert correspondent, GERRY 
SAEGERT of Legion Utensils Co., was 
elected to the board of directors of the 

Permanent Ware Institute in November. His 
only communication for the month was an 
election flyer from our junior year sent 
to him by JIM CASPER. It carried the 
names of an unsuccessful ticket headed 
by REX ELLIS, supported by STEVE 
SITKO, ED FULHAM, Gerry, TOM 
DONAHUE and NEIL GEARY. 

Although JERRY O'DOWD from Fort 
Wayne managed to see JOE MILLER 
here in South Bend, I have not had the 

opportunity. Joe is head of the local office 
of a national public accounting firm. We 
did have a nice visit with BILL HOSINSKI 
(not sure of his graduation year, both 
undergrad and law) and his charming 
wife, Martha. 

Remember June 12, 13 and 14 when all 
of you are to be right here on campus 
for 30 — 40 — 70!! 
Robert G. Sanford 
302 Rue Rabelais, Apt. 620 
South Bend, Ind. 46615 
'42 PROUD CLASSMATES 

We are very pleased and honored to have 
DON O'BRIEN elected as president of 

the Alumni Assn. Don has received this 
recognition as a result of his hard work, 
perseverance and loyalty to ND. Our 
most sincere congratulations to Don. 

JOSEPH C. SPOHR JR. is administrative engineer with New Departure-Hyatt Bearings Division of General Motors Corp. Joe's son, Gregory, is a freshman at ND this year. We received this letter from STEVE GRALIKER: "Since I have been volunteered as class agent for the Alumni fund, I have enjoyed a wide touch-up with the class. BUD SHOUVLIN re­sponded by return mail indicating his contri­bution. JOHN STAUBER responded with that oh, so sweet enclosure and a resume since graduation. It included his family of two teenagers, Marquette Law School and a 16-year stint as city attorney and pres­ently his law firm in Marshfield, Wis." 
Quite a few members of our class made the Texas game at the Cotton Bowl. There were so many around, it would be im­possible for one person to see them all. Dan (Bud) Shouvlin reports he saw DUKE GEOLLER, LEO TURGEON, BILL MURPHY and FRAN POLLNOW. JIM CONWAY reports seeing Don O'Brien and LEO LANIGAN. Your reporter had a nice 
President to Alumni: 

Get Involved .. . Speak Up! 
Don O'Brien '42 Alumni President 

Notre Dame and her alumni share a fundamental dejpendence upon each other. What the University is reflects on every alumnus. And vrhal each alumnus is reflects on the image of the University. Therefore, - it behooves Notre Dame alumni to maintain an interested invohnment with their Alma Mater—and their Alma Mater with ttiem. 
This mutual relationship is nothing new. For generations Notre Dame has enjoyed a unique position among universities for its strong alumni l>ond. But now, following two decades of unprecedented growth and change at Notre Dame, it seems appropriate to consider some aspects of our role in the University today. 
Of the five t>odies of the University-Trustees, administration, faculty, students and alumni—^the alumni body is unique in several mpects. It is the largest by far; by mid-1970 it will exceed 46^000. It is the most diverse geographically, and in the occupations and «iperience of ite memt>ers. Its membership is the most permanent of the five bodtes; members of the other four come and go with varying frequency, but "once an alumnus, always an alumnus." 
And, finally, the alumni body contains members of all <rf the other four, including some graduate students who are already alumni. 
The conclusion is that Notre Dame alumni comprise a iai ^ and important force within the University. This is a fact today, perhaps more than ever before in ttie 102-year history of the association. Alumni working together can make the voice of thJBir majority heard, respected and heeded in many relevant areas at Notre Dame. 
How can this be accomplished? Fortunately our association enjoys its strongest organizatiohal stature ever, thanks to the wisdom and foresight of its leaders during the past several years. The Alumni Board has been expanded to 15 members, in addition to the honorary president, each representing one of 15 geographic regions of the U.S. The Alumni Senate, now commencing its fourth year, provides broad alumni representa­tion between local alumni clubs and the board. Also, ttte association president is an ex-officio member of the University's Board of Trustees, and head of the alumni delegation to the University Forum. Individual alumni members can express their opinions arid suggestions most effectively through one of four channels: (1) their local club president, who is a meml)er of the Alumni Senate; (2) the Alumni Board member representing his region; (3) the Alumni Board member who is chairman of the board's committee in the subject area involved; (4) the "Alumni Ask" column of the ALUMNUS. When an official position is taken by the majority of the meml)er8hip or directors of a local club, a statement of this position should be forwarded promptly by the dub president to the Alumni Board through the board members representing that region. One additional means of communication from individual alumni direct to the Alumni Board is available right now through use of the card on page 26, Your immediate suggestions and opinions will assist in focusing the board's attention and directing its action this year. If you have something to say about your University or your association, please speak up at once. Also, please be as constructive as you can in your remarks. Members of the board hope that every alumnus will suggest something which will contribute to the effectiveness of the a^ociation and the benefit of the University. Meanwhile, the ALUMNUS magazine will continue to refiort ttie University scene like it is, and provide a means of communication between the Alumni Board and alumni at large. Your involvement and voice are important in helping to shape and perpetuate the University of which we are a significant part. Collectively, we can accompliirti much that is t>eneficial—like urging the removal of an outdated 45-year no-t)Owl policy, for one small example. Let's hear it for ND! 
ALUMNI BOARD OF DMECTpRS 
1970 COMHITTEE CHAIRMEN 
Executive Faculty ItelaUons 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 John T. Massmann '56 
Academic Affairs Placement 
Frank L. McGinn '52 Robert A. Eritins'47 
Admissions Public Relations and Development Robert A. Erkins '47 X: •- Francis J. Wilson '28 Af/i/ef/c Religion and Citizenship Leonard H. Tose '37 Frank L McGinn'52 
Class Activities Senate Activities 
Walter M. Langford '30 Leonard H. Skoglund '38 
Club Activities Sh/dent Affairs 
W. Jerome Kane '38 Robert L McGoldrick'56 
Continuing Education Nominating Robert L. McGoldrick'56 yt. Jerome Kane'38 
Donald F. O'Brien'42 
PURPOSES OF THE ASSOCMTION 
(From the Alumni ConsWulioii) 
The purposes of the Association shall be to promote the interest, influence and weltare of the University of Notre Dame; to foster and continue the moral, spiritual and intellectual ideals it teaches and inspires; to work for the interest and advancement of its members and the establishment of more effective relations between them and the University, all in cooperation with the programs of the University in order to achieve maximum mutual 
objectives. 

Cut along this line—MaH card balow 
Fold lAfs caid, enclose ft fn 
an envelope and mail H to: 
Mr. OonaM F. O'Brien 
President, Notre Dame Alumni Associlion Notre Dame, Indiana 40556 
SPEAK UP NOW 

Take advantage of this free opportunity to speak your piece—pro or con^on any one aspect of the University or the association. Please be constructive and concise. 
Your remarks will receive personal attention by the board, but probably cannot be acknowledged. Thank you for your interest. 
COMPLETE AND MAIL TNIS CARD TODAY 
Cut along this line—MaHcanliMlow 
TO THE ALUMNI BOARD OF DIRECTORS: 
All right. You asked me to speak up. Here's what I have to say on this subject (check one): 
DODDD  Academic  Administration  Admissions  Athletic  (Other)  DQDn  Class Activities  Club Activities  Continuing Education  Faculty  QQQD  Placement  PR and Development  Religion and Citizenship  Students  
Comments:  

OPTIONAL  COMF •LETE THIS PART  
Name  Class Year  Degree  
Address  City  State  

A lair and order educator 
"Law and order," that nebulous phrase which has become the rallying cry for many and a dreaded, repeti­tious theme for others, has taken on an occupational meaning for Daniel 
T. Clancy '59 since his graduation. Clancy, who has just been appointed assistant dean of the Law School at Case Western Reserve U., Cleveland, has been involved in two angles of the issue, first as an investigator of crimes and more recently as a director of a law enforcement training program. 
After receiving his bachelor's degree 
in business administration from ND, 
Dan spent three years at Case Western 
as a law student, and was awarded 
his LL.B. in 1962. He then began a 
four-year stint with the FBI as a 
special agent—^and a traveling one, 
it might be added. His investigations 
of violations of federal law led him 
in a big circle around the country, 
and he lived for various periods of 
time in Washington, D.C., Kansas 
City, Mo., Topeka, Kan., and 
Jacksonville and Saint Augustine, 
Fla. While he was residing in 
Florida, Clancy received one assign­
ment which stands out in his mind— 
a trip to Selma, Ala., to observe the 
historical civil rights march from 
Selma to Montgomery. 
Clancy left the FBI in 1965 to join the faculty of the Law School at Case Western, and, more specifically, to assist in a law enforcement training program of the Law-Medicine Center at the school. He was appointed director of the program, a unique element in law schools, last July. 
The Law-Medicine Center was 
visit with TOM WALKER and LARRY KELLEY, and all in all it was a great weekend. Hope we get invited to the Cotton Bowl next year — the hospitality was terrific! 
William M. Hicfcey 
5500 W. 73id St Chicago, 111. 60638 
>43 NEWS TIDBITS 
The Alumni Office reports that FRED GOOSEN is treasurer of the Navios Corp. Fred Jr. graduated from Georgetown 
U. in 1969 and son, Christopher, gradu­ated from Delbarton School in 1969 and is now at Biscayne College, Miami, Fla. How about financing a trip for the class secretary to Fred's Nassau, Bahamas, home? 
The Alumni Office also forwarded a recent copy of a Youngstown, Ohio, daily that gave Dr. RICHARD D. MURRAY a three-column write-up. Al­though a busy plastic surgeon, he has found time to be a visiting professor at Santo Tomas U. in Manila and the U. of Teheran in Iran, has been guest lecturer at 
instituted in the early 19S0s at Case 
Western to make better use of 
medicine and the allied sciences in 
the administration of civil and 
criminal justice. The criminal aspect of 
the program trains policemen in law 
enforcement techniques and provides 
them with legal knowledge essential 
to properly carry out their functions. 
The civil section of the center educates 
law, medical and dental students in 
areas where problems of law and 
medicine overlap. Since Clancy 
joined the center, the program has 
been on the move. In 1964-65, 
there were 10 programs for 280 
police officers; last year, there were 
21 courses for 1,148 private police 
and municipal police candidates. 
The father of four girls, ranging in age from 5 years to 2 months, and the husband of a nurse who feels a little left out because of her husband's recent ability to dominate the spotlight in local newspapers and magazines, Clancy has developed some concrete ideas about police training through his association with crime and law officers. The law enforcement officer, in Clancy's thinking, must be a versatile person—capable of protect­ing peace, enforcing laws, handling violent situations, rendering sympathy, and willing to give his life for the protection of others. Despite the vast responsibilities given the law officer, Clancy notes that in the not too distant past, the officer frequently had little or no training, and was often given a badge, a gun and told to go out and do his best. 
Regardless of the professionalization 
the U. of Hong Kong and the U. of the Philippines, as well as many other medical schools. He has also spent considerable time in Hong Kong training physicians for the Maryknoll Hospital, tinancing the project himself. A world traveler, speaking several languages, he has been around the world five times and in and out of Europe innumerable times. His great and special interest was responsible for the success of the Manhattan Festival Ballet of Youngstown, and he has been active in the Youngstown Symphony Society, serving as president in 1962-63. Dick has also found time for art work, having received a first prize from the American Physicians' Art Assn. and authored a book. The Rise and Fall of the Stale, which emphasizes the causes which give rise to decay in society. His offices have been designed and built with the idea that some­day they will be a museum for the arts. He has had audiences with three popes, including a private audience with Pope Paul VI. After graduation from ND, Dick attended Georgetown Medical School and did postgraduate work at U. of Penn­
Dan Clancy (center) with two of his 
dates at the Case Western taw School. 

the center is striving to achieve for policemen, Clancy maintains that there is one factor which dKxdd not be overlooked— "Police officers will still remain human beings." He states, "Although the training and educatioa today's police officer is receiving better equip him to perform his duties, it does not remove the hiunan ele­ment while he is performing his duties. A police officer reacts to situations first as a human being and then as a law enforcement officer." But Clancy does not regard this as a justification of wrongful police action —merely "food for thought," as he says. 
Dan Clancy's goal is not an un­realistic one, for he realizes that educators cannot control police action and reaction on the streets. But he is convinced that the center's efforts "will sharpen the ofiicer's attitude concerning the law and com­munity, concerning his use of author­ity and concerning his role in society." And that alone is a formidable goal— and one which, if accomplished, will at least shed some new light on the law and order issue. 
sylvania. He makes tus home at 171 
Newport Dr^ Youngstown. 
Through the partial lock of the draw and the generosity of a coui^ of big­hearted ND men, your secretary was able to attend the Northwestern, Michigan State, Southern Cat and Navy games. Atnong those joiiiing your secretary enjoy­ing the tailgate hospitality of the Toots Shor of the parking lot, BILL SULLIVAN, were JACK GRIFFIN (two junior class dau^ters at SMC), ED MURRAY (son, Joe, a junior, 346 Farley), JACK BARRY (daughter at SMC and son. Norm, sopho­more at ND), BOB McCAFFERTY (son, Mike, a student at Moreau Seminary, doing a double in law and theology). Rev. TOM FINUCANE (treasurer of St Louis U.), FRED CORE, HERB MELTON,. BOB RAFF and BILL McCAUGHEY. JOHN POWERS and family were in from New York for the Southern Cal game, visiting John Jr., a sophomore. They were accompanied by the senior Powers' btolher, TOM '42, veteran writer for the Chicago Tribune, and another gracious taUgate host Also had halAime visits with BOB 
COLLINS, JIM McELROY and JOHN 

MORRISON. Jim has a son, Steve, at ND. 
John is Midwest district sales manager 

of the plastic products and resins division of 
Monsanto with offices at 3158 Des Plaines 
Ave., Des Plaines, lU. 60018. 
Lincoln, Neb.'s favorite son, lawyer 

JOHN FINNEGAN and son, JOHN JR. '69. 
were on hand for the Southern Cal game. 
"The Fin," now retired from the V. S. 
Marine Corps, is practicing law in 
Lincoln. A letter from BILL MIDDEN­
DORF stated that he planned to visit 
son. Bill Jr., sophomore in Farley, and 
attend the Southern Cal game, but our 
paths didn't cross. 
Frank W, Kaiser 
307 Cherry St. 
Chatsworth, lU. 60921 
'44 THANKS, '44ERS 
Since this is the iirst column due after the 
holidays, it seems appropriate to recog­

nize and thank those '44ers whose welcomed 
greetings added to the festivities of the 
season. 

FRITZ FUNK, LaCrosse, Wis., an original '44er who was called into service in '42 and returned to the campus to finish in '46, was an early bird. His card was one of the first received. Another early arrival was from Mrs. G. V. Funk, Muncie, Ind., the mother of GALAND FUNK who died in action in the Battle of the Bulge on Christmas Eve, 1944. G.V., as he was known at ND, was a roommate of yours truly the last semester prior to our being called up. FARRELL QUINLAN, Sunapee, N.H., sent a picture of himself and his family all decked out in winter togs set for a snowmobile ride on their Indian Cave Lodge acres. The handsome Rolfs children were pictured on the card received from TOM ROLFS and his wife, Mary. Another former roommate, junior year, JERRY NILLES, a Fargo, N.D., lawyer, sent greetings. Cards also came from BEN MAMMINA, Benton Harbor, Mich., school bus tycoon, and from former class prexy GEORGE BARISCILLO, whose home is in Deal Park, NJ. 
Current class President FRANK VIGNO­LA wrote a most encouraging letter and sent a copy of a letter he mailed to all '44ers. Both of these letters were appre­ciated greatly by your secretary. 
At the time of the reunion last June, several in attendance wondered at the whereabouts of JIM MALONE, Toledo, Ohio. His Christmas card explained his absence. Unexpectedly, he was in Italy on a business trip. It was the first reunion miss for Jim since he left school. Another '44er who has been doing some traveling is HARRY YEATES. On his greeting he told of spending September touring France, England and Scotland — strictly for pleasure. He also mentioned having had several visits with JIM CLARKE and his family, who live outside Washington. 
Recently all '44ers received a letter from JOHN ANHUT, class agent for SUMMA. He urged all to support generously, both spiritually and financially, the University in order to accomplish greater research and better understanding of today's problems and tomorrow's challenges. Let not his plea, so eloquently expressed, fall on deaf ears! 
THOMAS O'BRIEN has been promoted to vice-president in the dyestuff and chemical division of Sandoz, Inc., Hacken­sack, NJ. FRANK ECK has been ap­

pointed vice-president in the indusuial and 
smoking products marketing division of 
Celanese Fibers Marketing Co., New York. 
Sympathy and prayers are extended to 
BILL WALDRON, Livingston, NJ., upon 
the death of his father. 

TOM O'REILLY, Fort Wayne, Ind., 
subscribes to the South Bend Tribune 
during the football season. In addition to 
reading the sports page, be noticed an 
article on fellow '44er, KERMIT ROUS­
SEVE, vho was injured seriously in an 
auto accident His car collided with a 
school bus near Elkhart and be suffered 
severe facial cuts and a compound leg 
fracture. For a while he was on the critical 
list Tom also mentioned ttiat twice last 
fall he saw Tom Rolfs at ND games. 
A letter was received from JIM 

PADESKY who lives in Moline, lU., and 
is associated with Sexton Ford. Even 
thou^ Jim finished ND in *47, be, like 
many others, considers himself a '44er. 
Joseph A. Neufeld 
P.O. Box 853 
Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
'45 NECiaiNE REACHED 

Sorry to have missed the last issue but 
these deadlines really creep up on you. 
I have been "up to my neck" because of 
the strike and a new position. 

Our condolences to the family of JOHN "TREE" ADAMS, who died in August The famay address is 3500 14th St, NW, Washington, D.C. We now have lost the "long" and "short" of the class — The Tree and HARRY RYAN. May they rest in peace. 
GENE MOORE has been named man­ager of the home office sales for the Foxboro Co., Foxboro, Mass. Congrats to RAY BADDOUR on his appointment as head of the department of chemical engineering at MIT. Saw JIM CLYNES at the Army game and also "genial" GENE DEAN. Thought I would see more '4Sers but they must have had box seats. 
Your class officers solicit your support for our Silver Jubilee Reunion committee headed by HARRY WALTHERS. Each of us has received two mailings—the class roster and Harry's letter. Let's start writing to our fellow classmates, making plans for June 12, 13, 14. This is usually the best reunion, so everyone plan to make it 
My son, Tim, was rummaging through some ND books over the holidays and we had a great time going throu^ the December '42 Dome. The pictures of Carroll and Brownson Halls, the old Huddle, group pictures of 2^ m and B-P, Fathers Holderith, Malou^en, Brothers Pat and Justin, Father Gorman and his St Ed. boys really brou^t back many fond memories and, also, names to mind of classmates who are no longer with us. 
How about dropping us a note—telling us of your whereabouts and your plans on coming to the reunion? If you're too bu^ doing your income tax, have your better half do it 
Frank M. Linehan P.O. Box 5000 Bin^amton, N.Y. 13902 
'4C GOOD START 

I'm pleased to report that 1969 year-end responses provided a little news for your first column of 1970. PAUL DOYLE has been appointed manager of nianfacturing 
by the Murphy Oil Co. From California 
comes word that RUDY LOPEZ was 
elected president of the Pasadena Educa­
tion Assn. A note from JOE PHELAN, 
Cheshire, Conn., informed me that he 

received a visit from BILL LAWLER, 
editor of Fireman's Mutual Publications, 
San Francisco. Bill was on speaking 

engagements at Sacred Heart College, Yale, 
Harvard and M.I.T. He and his wife, 

Jane, formerly of South Bend, have five 
children. 

I was very happy to hear from my former 
roommate, JACK BARRETT. Jack and 
his wife, Sueanna, have four boys. The 

oldest is married, two are at the U. of 
Kentucky and one still at home. FRANK 
KOWALSKI took time out to drop a line 
and let me know that he is being trans­
ferred to New York City, effective Feb. 
15. Best of luck on your new assign­ment, Frank. 

By way of Christmas cards, I discover JOHN P. McGUIRE and his wife, Pat are proud parents of three children and JAMES "HARP" DOUGHERTY and wife, Stevie, equally proud with seven Harpettes. 
In closing, I hope you all had a most joyous Christmas and an exciting new year. As for 70, a resolution to fill in those yellow cards will be very helpful. 
Peter P. Richiski 
6 Robin Place 
Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 

'« AMEN! The last two issues of the ALUMNUS were real exciting ones, to say the least and as a result we should have either a deeper interest in what is happening at ND or we can lose all interest because the way things are going. We don't know what to expect next! In the last issue I gave my opim'on and want to thank the many of you who wrote to me agreeing in principle with my feelings about the situation. 
In November, I saw JOE OTOOLE who had to come in from California to Newark, NJ., because of the untimely death of his father, a well-known personality in the Newark area. Many of Joe's friends will be saddened by his death because he was very close to ND alumni and friends. 
A letter from Dr. DAVE MOSIER tells us about his visiting the campus for the Northwestern game while at the same time his oldest daughter, Carolyn, was start­ing her freshman year at St Mary's. 
From Pasadena, Calif., we hear from BILL GRIFFY who tells us that his son is {Haying littie league ball with BILL HARTFIELD's son and that he also runs into BRAD BENNETT and RUDY LOPEZ often. He also tells us that GEORGE TERLEP's son. Bob, has the college football scouts after him since he is a "chip off the old block." At the same time we bear that DAN HESTER had major surgery recenUy. We wish him a sp^ y recovery. We are sorry to hear that Bill's father, Arthur Grifly, died last October in Anderson, Ind. 
JOHN E. COSGROVE is director of tiie Department of Social Development of the US. Catholic Conference. JOSEPH W. O'REILLY is president of General Protec­tive Services, Inc., in Cleveland. They are national consultants on "campus security." Joe has four children ranging from 18 to 6 years of age. SAM KITCHIN is on the 
board of directors of the Second National 
Bank of Richmond, Ind., and is also 
president of Kitchm and Son, Inc., manu­
factureis agents. Sam and his wife have 
five childrett, two of whom are students at 
Indiana U. DAN HUNTOON visited ND 
for the Southern Cal game with h s son, 
Dan Jr., who is a prospective student. 
Dan Jr. was "total^ impressed," even after 
living in the Los Angeles area for four 
years (good luck). JOHN M. HILLER is 
now head basketball coach at St Francis 
CoUege in Loretto, Pa. FRANK CULHANE 
is vice-president and treasurer of Hart, 
Schaffner and Marx and was recently 
elected secretary of the International Trade 
Club of Chicago. Frank lives in Winnetka 
with his wife, two sons and three daughters. 
FRANK SIERAWSKI is director of the 
Bureau of State Services for the Michigan 
Department of State. He and his wife. 
Rose, have seven children. 
In case you may have missed it in the 
last issue of the ALUMNUS, in the 1949 
class notes, JOHN EDWARD SWEENEY 
of Los Alamos, N.M., via Santa Fe, died 
of a heart attack in September. Jack was 
a close friend of many of the class of 
'48, as he started with us back in 1943. 
This was sad news. Jack was a great 
little guy and had great love for ND and 
was a devoted father and husband. Our 
sympathy to his widow, Marilyn SMC '49, 
and his children. 
ROBERT E. ROWLING is now vice-
president and chief engineer of the Edward 
Gray Corp., Chicago. Bob has been with 
this industrial construction firm for three 
years. He is living in Park Forest, 111., 
with his wife and their four daughters. 
Bob's father and two younger brothers are 
also ND grads. 
George J. Keenan 
177 Rolling Hills Rd. 
Clifton, NJ. 07013 
•4» NO WIN, BUT .. . We didn't win the Cotton Bowl game, granted, but the skill, fight and muscle that our Irish did put on display for all of America (did anyone play in the Sugar Bowl?) certainly must have every ND man strutting nine feet tall. Let me mention one local "victory" that resulted from "that game." One of our Rochester sports columnists who has not been too kind to ND during his tenure, covered the ND-Texas game in Dallas. His post-game column, after giving modest tribute to Texas, was practically devoted to the tough Irish team, but most particularly to "the gutsiest little magician of a quarterback in the country, Joe Theisman!" He named him player of the game without question! To sports readers in this area (Ir ^ followers, that is) this represents a major victory. Somebody was convinced that ND wants and can handle the best! 
So what's new. You ask? Let's take a look. TOM KUPFER was reappointed chairman of the American Institute of Certified Public'Accountants Committee on Taxation of Special Entities and Industries. (Tiy printing that on your office door!) Tom is a partner in the New York City office of Haskins and Sells and lives at 972 Cherokee Court, Westfield. His com­mittee's objective is to formulate recom­mendations for improvements in the federal tax laws and their administration for submission to Congress and the Internal Revenue Service. 
A year or so ago, C. CARROLL 
CARTER was mentioned as having visited 
Europe on behalf of the Pittsburfh, Pa., 
Urban Transit CouncU. "C.C." was 
assistant executive director of the conndL 
Now he has added the title of assistant 
administrator for public affiurs of the Uiban 
Mass Transportation Administration, with 
responsibility for devek>pinf comprthemive 
and coordinated public tran^ortation 
systems to serve the urban areas. For 
Pittsburgh, as well as for any major 
metropolitan center, this can be a truly 
monumental headache. 
With the cost of money at 8V^ per cent 
and 9 and hiejier, it may prove helpful to 
point out we have another banking 
executive in our group. Attention 
Libertyville, III., and environs—CHARLES 
A. QUINLAN has been appointed executive vice-president and cashier of the Libertyville National Bank. So, if things get too ti^t in the loop, "check with Chock!" 
DANIEL D. REARDON, president ot Daniel Reardon Publishing Co. (educational books for elementary and secondary schools) in Cleveland, Ohio, wrote to update our records. He and his wife, Ruth, have six children. How 'bout these beautiful names: Danny, Kevin, Jenny, Sean, Corey and Stephanie! 
Certainly if you have been reading the newspapers and the ALUMNUS, you are aware of bold and firm moves made by our classmate. Rev. JIM RIEHLE CSC during the Dow Chemical interview con­frontation. Fr. Hesburgh's "15 minute plan" was put into operation not onc^ but twice by Fr. Jim. I could not help but grin in broad long-distance approval, prideful approval. He has cau^t more than a little "static" for his stand.' Those of us who appreciate what CSC discqiline meant and did for us and who may know the loneliness of nukhig or taking an unpopular stand, might want to send him a littfe note of encouragement, a simple little "well done!" 
Leo L. Wesley 
ISS Driftwood Lane 
Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
>5« '5*ERS' FAMILIES 
Here's hoping that you all vrill have a 
happy and successful 1970. 
Among our fine visitors to this land of sunshine before Christmas was JIM WALSH, practicing law in downtown Chicago, and residing in River Forest with his lovely wife, Jeanne Cusack Waldi, and family, Maiy (15), Jim (14), Joe (13), Helen (12), Ann (10), Patricia (9), Midiad 
(7) and Susan (3). Jeanne's ND brothers are doing well, TOM CUSACK '50. JOE '54 and JOHN "57. My wife's brother. Rev. TOM FEELEY CSC, on sabbatical untn this June and studying at U. of Chicago while residing at SL Philip de Paula Church, 7822 S. Dobson Av e and Jfan Walsh, were two Chicagoans putting a little Key Becayne sand in between their toes as they had peripatetic discussions about the nature <rf things. Another Miami visitor was TOM RONEY, now moved to 77 North Deqp­lands, Grosse Pointe Shores, where be and his wife, Kay Bartemier Roney, and dau^ters Cathy (13), Sheri (11), Jani (8), and son. Tommy (12), live. He is now with a divisioa of Diners-Fugazy Travel and Incentive Co., Detroit You may have spatted hnn at some of the home football games wiUi his 28-foot Airstream trailer with the sign, "Official Information Booth Class of '50," displayed. He sees JIM CROWE, 
aaislaiit sales manMer, Detroit Diesd C c 
IIM GROVESk viceimsideat ot tte Ediw 
Cb.. anto aof^Btn in Detroit. BOB WINK, 
in pbsiics, and WALT SEERY. in the 
Delroit-Binnin^Mm aiea. as wdl as GUS' 
CLEARY. a stockbtoker in Detroit. BCW 
UGRTNIMG LANCE, in Eiizabethtomi, 
Ky. FRED BOVE is vice^nsident of 
Baleman Eidler, m i Ridiaids, Inc.. a 
menAer of die New Yoifc Stodc Ewhanir, 
m Los Any If i. 
My wife; Maiy Pat, is trarhint French 
at the Oral GaUes Senior Hitfi SsbooL 
We have good r^otts from JOUH and 
RAiy Mudd McHALE. John is ni major 
crime area in the FAI., is wrilinc and 
piMishing, and is active in CCD. Mary 
McHale was written up in the "Marriage 
Magazme" for all <rf her good deeds for 
Christ's sake: Daughter Kathleen is at 
Townson Slate CoOeii^ Baltimore Thetese 
at LaReine HiA SdiwA Mike and John 
are music and aeronautical engitieering 
hopefuls, respecUtdy; Brian, Elaine and 
Sheila are die seventh, fifdi and third 
graders at SL Philqi's. In ftmily snqnhots 
sent, they are a good-kxAhig groiqi, and 
kMk like lots of fiat 
DICK and Lee Eisetson KLEE and fomily had a great time on their motaihas to the Southwest and California, visiting TOM and Marge Qmnn O'GRADY and their families. They had a 14Jioiir Mara­thon in Disneyland after Tom and Marge had a *iiusiness" trip to Einope, without Margaret (17), Kaddeen (IS) and Tom (13). BILL and Jinny Logan BRADLEY are taking it easy in Denver. Jiimy teadies CCD and is in the high school art depart­ment Children Mike, Chris, Tran, John, Mary Ellen and Atm compose a very cute and polite family. Bill is the legislative ana­lyst of the dty council, on the Xaw and Justice Task Forc^ Denver Urban Coalition, Mayor's Committee on Solid Waste Disposal, City Council's Liaison with the Denver Police Community Relations Prognun, dnirman ot the City Employees' Tuition Refunds Committee, chairman of the Denver Ardidiocesan Human Relations Conmussaon, member of the Committee on Pastoral Cortcems of die Ardidiocesan Council of Priests, CorsiUo Lector and Mass Commentator and hopefully keeping his ticker under good control. 
John W. Thornton 
4400 Monserrate St 
Coral Gables, Fla. 33146 
•SI tees GOING TO TRY Happy new year! We vrill try to do a little better in "70; send along your notes with personal and professiofial news. 

HOBE TAYLOR was in Phoenix for a mondi karning to sell computers for the information system divsion of GJE. Hobe and Pat had a Gttle bt^, Christopher, last July 23; diis makes six. Hobe saw TED O'MALLEY at a Bulls-Suns game while in Phoenix. Ted is in the fieUs of building material and investments. Ted and Jane Ann (Jones) have one boy and five girls. 
Also in Phoenix is BILL BREIDEN­BACH, who has gone into business widi his brother Joe in a firm named Fanner's Concrete Products. They prodoce patio stones and meter boxes. KU wonders iriqr he stayed back here in the snow comitqr so kmg. Also hean) diat FRANK BROPHY is practiciiig law in Phoenix. 
TOM CARROLL also had an addition, Nanqr, in Jane, to total seven. Tom saw BILL ANHUT in Ypsitanti, Mich., and 
Commission of the Greater Portland Council of Churches, a member of the board of directors of the Metropolitan 

Old fat^s • • • new places 
Rev. Joseph Kehoe CSC, who tau^t 
economics in the early *40s, later 
became prefect of discipline, then 

director of student activities and first vice-president for student affairs. He played a key role in the difficult transition period after World War II as the University returned to civilian status from the almost complete take­over by the Navy. In his student affairs post, by way of more color for the upcoming TV appearances of the University band at football games, he was responsible for the addition of the "Irish Guard" with their bagpipes, kilts, tartan and tall, bearskin hats. He's often wished he had written a book or kept a desk tape recorder to 
Fr. Haley with students in Austria. 
mentioned Bill lias just sold the motel to go into private law practice in that city. Tom also sees TOM KENNEDY, a top attorney in Salina, on occasion. Anybody who gets a ticket driving through Kansas can call Tom Kennedy for assistance, as he is fairly active in many of the service organizations. Thanks for the note, Tom C. 
Noted that JOE GALLOWAY is now supervisor of maintenance engineering in the GAF Industrial Photo division piant in Binghamton, N. Y. With his wife, Jean, and their three children, Joe lives in Chenango Bridge. GEORGE SCHWIND has gone East to the executive offices of Crane Co., at 300 Park Ave. in New York. Rev. FRED BRICE is busy as associate pastor at St. Rose of Lima Church in Miami Shores. The parish has 3,000 families and three other priests. Fred is back running CCD full blast; sounds like the old days when he was still a layman in Skokie. His conservative pastor would not let him take up a second collection to go to the Cotton Bowl. 
Had a nice note from TOM BOLAND, reporting on successful surgeiy to remove some cartilage from Mary Jo's knee. Shell have to cut out hop-scotch now that she is approaching 30, and stay in shape for the big party in SL Louis on Oct 17. GENE and Palma DeBORTOLI dropped a note at Christmas. By the time you read this they will be in their new home at 86 Hoodridge Dr., Pittsburgh, Pa. IS228. 
To stimulate mail, we will entertain nominations for class officers for the 1971-76 term—especially for secretary. Better bear out his conviction that the 

students then, mostly men letumed 
from the service, the fathers of the 
present generation of students, were 
as "knowledgeable, imaginative, in­
ventive, versatile, daring, forthright 
and courageous as their sons are 
today." Perhaps in lieu of a purple 
heart, Fr. Kehoe was rewarded with 
an opportunity to continue his studies 
in economics and obtained a doctorate 
at Catholic U. in 1956. Since then 
he has been at the U. of Portland as 
teacher, head of the department of 
social sciences, first financial vice-
president, and now, acting dean of the 
Graduate School. ("Hoping to get 
back into the classroom," he says.) 
Another well-known (1946-60) teacher and rector, chaplain of YCS, a cofounder of the still-active Council for the International Lay ^wstolate (CILA), now serving at the U. of Portland, is Rev. Joseph Haley CSC. There he teaches theology and is assistant imiversity cha{riain. He previously had also been recttM* of a hall, chaplain of the campus and state­wide YCS, and was for one year the director of Portland's foreign studies program at Salzbivg, Austria. His many outside interests continue: he is chairman of the Faith and Order 
send in those nominations or well make up a few out of whole cloth. 
Jim Jennings 
Borg-Wainer Corp. 
200 S. Michigan 
Chicago, III. 60604 

'52 ABOirr PArS MOmTACHE 
Col. PAT NEVILLE USMCR palled 

in for the Navy game porting n/hat can 
only be described as the most graiKliose 
moustache in all of upstate New York. 
Pat grew it to cover up a woimd incurred 
along the highway by way of an auto 
accident The next time you see him, bell probably be featured in the "new" chaixe of the Li^t Brigade. 
JOHN WAGNER writes fmm D.C. that he hopes Mel Laiid applies tte "meat axe" to the Pentagon and abolish all staff jobs so he can get back to a flying unit He and his wife, Adele, have two beautiful kids, Amy and Mark. John hopes to begin part-time work on his FhJD. in business adminstration in FAiuaiy. 
From the land of sumqr San Dieto, MARVIN W. RICHLING writes dut he and his wife, Rosemaiy, and five children are enjoying their 13th year in the land of toses. Marv has been with General DynamicsX^orvair in industrial entineering and estimating all this linie. ImI970, new hoiizons are opening up for Maiv. He will be devoting full time to the ted estate business with Goodrick, Inc., ^lecialiTing in residential and income pmpatf. Good luck to you, Marv, in your new ventwe. 
YMCA and chairman of a Pacific 

Northwest group of teachers dealing 
with theological education. He is also 
working himself up to a third rewrite 
of his Accent on Purity which has 
gone through 10 printings and two 
revisions. Recently he has become 
interested in sensitivity training and 
experimental Christian community 

in order, he says, "to resist aging and 
institutionalization and to remain 

relevant in the Christian humanistic 
renewal of Church and society." 

Rev. Francis D. Nealy OP, who 
became director of the Newman 
Center, U. of Miami, Fla., after 
leaving N D in 196S, now wears 
several hats at Providence Qdlege, 
Rhode Island: associate professor 

and vice-chairman of the department 
of education, chairman of the faculty 
committee on discipline, member of 
the committee on studies and rector 
of a student hall (running it N D 
style, he says). His interest in the 
Army has not waned (he was a 
chaplain in Worid War II) and he 

still teaches ROTC classes and goes 
to ROTC simimer camps. 
Rev. John Wilson CSC 
BoxD 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

JOHN A. HALTER has been promoted to vice-president and manager of Proper^ Resean^ Corp.'s San Francisco investment region. John has come a long way from Missouri. After his B.S. in accounting at ND, he received a master's from the U. of Texas in '57. Going on to Stanford Graduate School, he completed his doctoral course as a fellow of the Ford Fouixlation. John was previously vice-president of Security Paciiic National Bank of Los Angeles. 
Another grad from the land of sunshine, JOHN MINCK, writes from Palo Alto that he has found a home with Hewlitt-Packard Co. He recently has become manager of manufacturing small semi­conductor components in the solid state display department His eariy years with the company led him on many marketing adventures where be was fortunate enou^ to meet many '32 grads who were also electrical engineers and showed a distinct favor for John's services. He received his master's in 'S7 in E.E. administration from Stanford. Prior to this, he was in Albuquerque, N.M., where he married Jane Lakin. They have three children, Kalhy (13), who wants to attend ND—no trouble here—John (11) and Susie (9). John would enjoy any grads who are in the area to drop by and open up a few with him. 
FRANK R. WISNESKI is a lieutenant colonel in the Air Force in the 21st Tactical Air Support Squadron (PACAF) (APO San Francisco 96205) in Vietnam. LAWRENCE P. McDONNELL was elected 
trust officer of Citizens Bank and Trust Co., 
Park Ridge, lU. JOHN 1. JOHNSON JR. 
was promoted to full professor in the 
biophysics, psychology and zoology 
depulroents, Michigan State U., July, 1969. 
John was a recipient of a National Insti­
tutes of Health Career Development Award 
for the study of the development of sensory 
centers in the brain. 
JAMES F. MUTSCHELLER is the 
president of the Baltimore, Md., Life 
Underwriters Assn. He's a chartered life 
underwriter and associate general agent of 
the Fied B. Smith Jr., C.L.U^ Baltimore, 
Md. General Agency of National Life 
Insurance Co. of Vermont 
WiUiam B. King 
613 E. Donmoyer Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 46614 
'54 CONSIDER THIS 
May you all have a prosperous, holy and 
peaceful new year. One resolution you 
mi^t all consider would be, at least once 
during the "TOs, to send your secretary 
some news. 
I sure hope you all enjoyed the Cotton 
Bowl as much as I did. And may the 
bird of paradise fly up a nostril of that 
referee who called time out for the 
Longfaoms and saved them from disaster. 
Congrats to the Fighting Irish of '69 and 
their coaches. While on the subject of 
football—order tickets for the first home 
game and come to our annual reunion 
par^r afterwards. Also, there will be a 
second reunion party next season at my 
house after the ND-Missouri game. I'll be 
glad to handle motel reservations, etc., and 
would appreciate knowing who'll be coming. 
You all come! 
Our last reunion party was a great success with 67 returning classmates. I had my son and dau^ter along for their first ND game, which we thoroughly enjoyed, thanks to SO-yard-line tickets from BILL MORLEY. The kids enjoyed the party and had the opportuni^ to meet a couple of the 'S3 Fitting Irish, JOE BUSH and BOB RIGALL As usual, the party was mixed with new faces anid regular attenders. Joyce and JIM "GUY" DeCOURSEY, JIM MacINNIS, Carol and JOHN REIDY were among those new faces. Every party has its bad guy and ours was no exception. "Bad guy of 1969" honors go to BOB PODEN, who didn't even show up. Bob was led astray the night before by the notorious Cincinnati mob—BOB WRIGHT, BILL BURKE and DICK CASTELLINI—and couldn't even make it to the starting post come Saturday. JOE McGINN advised us that his wife, Suzie, had a baby on Sept 22. (My note's almost illegible at that point Hope the date's right) Others at the party were TOM ROGERS, ED IWANSKI, TOM MOORE. JOHN LIBERT, BOB ETTELBRICK, DICK EHR, DAVE BURRELL (Fr. Dave of Moratorium Mass fame), GEORGE "SKIP" CRAINE, JOHN MULLANE, CHARLIE ALLEN, MARTY TUCK, TOM CANNON, ED MRAZ, BOB FARNBAUCH, TONY MANDULINI, DAVE FOY, JACK ROSSHIRT, BILL MORLEY, WALT WAGNER, DAN MURPHY, LEO MICHUDA, JOE JOYCE, JIM CORCORAN JACK McANIFF, PHIL HIGGINS, JIM STUBLER, DAN MUNSON. ED "LONG-HITTER" BROWN, MIKE CELESTE. J. D. MADIGAN, BILL CAVANAUGH, HERM KRIEGSHAUSER, JOHN BIERBUSSE 
(and taU. taU son), JOE MESEC. ED 
MILOTA. JOHN POIRIER. BOB KROT, 
RICH HOHMAN, WALT DUSCHKA. 
JIM McHUGH, JOHN SCHLOEGEL, 
PAUL KRAUS, TOM DEMPSEY and 
assorted others iriio don't write so wdL 
It's with much regret that I report Ae death of a classmate, PAUL UDELL, and the death of John Schlo^el's wife Dec. 22. Also. ED SWEENEY'S wife, Maiy Lou, died in June. Your prayers are requested and will be appreciated. Our deepest sympathy! 
BILL DALY called the other day when he was passing thru St Louis. Bill's wife is expecting No. 1 and Bill has moved bom Augusta, Ga., to Wheaton, 111., irtiete he's a hospital administrator. JOHN BUNDSCHUH JR. has formed "Bundschuh & Co.,"financial consultants located in the Lincoln Bldg., New York City. John and his wife, Dorothy, have four chSdreit TOM HAYES M.D. is a pathologist with the 
F.D.A. in D.C. He and his bride have five little ones. BOB BLOOM is in the Syracuse ofiice of Merrill Lynch, etc Major PAUL ROBST is on duty at Tuy Hoa AFB, Viet­nam; Major CHARLIE SPICKA is home safe after over 100 missions in Vietnam and is headed for the Pentagon. Charlie, Vema. my wife. Marie, and I enjoyed the Geoixia Tech game together over a few martinis—on TV of course. Charlie's mustache is gone but alas, he didn't get near as much as Namath did for the razor job. 
Milt Beaudine 
21 Signal HOIs Blvd. 
East St Louis, III. 62203 
'55 A TURNCOAT? FRANK SCHILLO (1812 Shaftsbuiy Rd., Dayton) says that he will have a problem when the Irish met Dayton in ba^etball this year. Frank received his M.B.A. from Dayton in August after two and one-half years of ni^t school. Frank. ii4io has two boys and two girls, is with Ross Labora­tories. 
JOHN McCULLOUGH. the top TV newscaster in Milwaukee on WTMJ-TV, worked with JACK FUNK, an obi buddy from Walsh who has come up with some interesting architectural ideas, on a feature segment JIM ROEMER has returned to South Bend and joined the law firm of Roemer, Sweeney and Roemer. JOE CORMLEY has been appointed state's attorney for Fairfield County in Oin­necticut Joe, who is one of the youngest ever named to the position in the state, has four children. 
When in New York recently to open our new office there (please refer your public relations accounts to Selz, Seabolt and Associates at 501 Fifth Ave. or call me in Chicago!), I talked Reunion '70 with JACK MAHONEY and he says the East Coast will be well represented. We discussed the idea of a bunch of you New Yorkers setting together on the same ffit^t Jack (75 Prospect Park W., Brooklyn) suggested that those who might want to make such arrangements contact him or SARS FORD (45 Keeler Ave., Bridgeport Conn.), WALT KAVANAUGH (126 Van Derveer Ave., SomervUle, N J.) or PETE RITTENHOUSE. 
While in New York, I bumped into JIM EHRET in an elevator at the hoteL Small world! Jim now is a full commander and stationed at the Navy War CoDege at Newport Also talked to RAY KENNEDVs wife. Patsy, who reported that they just brau ^ their eighih child iMnne boat the 
iMMpitaL It was their fifth giiL Ray »>s 
out settiog hb bend tiMutid widi a 
btowloidi for a "Une" pfeoto^eatnitl 
SpeaUog at Nwy officcis. Rev. XXB O'DONNELL ckedni in from a ship off DaNant tUi Christmas, but he has been tiaaslSened back to Oe Stales—Catholic Chapbin. National Naval Medical Cfenler. Betliesda, Md. Jkie stiD has two yean to serve on his active duty agieeuient . Another of Uncle Sun's men on die mo*^ JERRY HUGHES, sent holiday gieetiiiis ftom Sfanr AFB^ &C. (330-A ttaeh St,) adiere he's loing through the RF-4C nffconnaiwincft program. "From here it is on to eidKr Udom, Thailand or Saiaon." Jeny hoped to see LARRY BUCKLEY over the holidays. Lany has moved Cram Miami to Chariott^ N.C. (6315 Honenar Dr.). "For some stranae reason, known only to adolescents, the kids ate lodang forward to snow. The 'old' folks win miss die sun, sotf and sand." 
Mote from die Chiistmas catd basket DON HANISCH came up widi eight Cotton Bo«d tickets and hoped to see some of yon in Dallas. BILL McLAIN dednd in with the news that Aim is expectmg number three m AptiL JOE DALEY turned nice guy and took Edwina with him to Miami on a business trqi and she says he made a big mistake because she wants to do more traveling in 70 so that she can renew more fiiendships. BILL STAHL has left for 13 months as the compttoOer at Osan AFB near Seoul, Korea. In October, he made an inflection trqi to Afiica. Retumiag diroui^ Europe, he visited relatives near Frankfurt Virginia win stay in Tampn (4807 Airowhead) with the four chOdtea AL and Betty COWLES wrote to say dial CHARLIE NAJJAR was in town for the Liberty BowL Would you believe that Charlie is still smgle? 
Also appreciated Chiistmas greetings from HANK GIES. JERRY BRANSFIELD, DICK BEEMAN, PAT DiPASQUALE. FRANK LOLU. NEAL HALLORAN. TOM IGLESKI. MIKE KELLY. JIM BERGQUIST, JOE HEGNER. STEVE REBORA. FRANK MAIER. TOM O'MALLEY, JOE CONNOLLY, DAVE COHEN, JOE SASSANO, MIKE WARD. JACK FLYNN. JOHN WEITHERS, JOE KEARNEY. TOM CAREY and JIM GRIFFIN. 
GEORGE ROONEY, who manufKtutes women's qnrtswear, lives at 154 Riverside Dr., Baskmg Ridge, N J. George writes that he enjoyed the football reunion and the visit with TOM and Mary Elkn ARM­sraONG m Toledo. Had a great turnout for the last Organizatioo '55 meeting. NewGomeis hke TONY PASQUESI, ROCCO TANNONE (now stationed at Gteat Lakes), AL BIMROSE (furniture mogul widi six gteat kids), JUNIOR STEPHENS, PAUL MATZ, RON DAVIS and JOHN BERGMAN (aU die way fiom St Paul) joined regulars like RON AUER, BOB CAFFARELU, J(HIN HESTER. NEAL HALLORAN, JOE HAGGERTY (it's a long diive from Hoopeston), J W KEARNEY, JERRY PRASSAS. GEtNlGE SHELTON, LEE CREAN, MIKE KELLY. FRANK CATTALANO and LOU ZEFRAN to have a teal win^dhig. The dates for the next two meetings at Lattner's bistro are March 12 and May 19. 
Paul Fullmer ­1922 Larfcdale Dr. Glenview. 10. 60025 '55L ABOUT THE LAWYERS 
BOB EVELD recently returned from 
Australia where he spent several weeks 

negotiating contracts with major Australian 
companies for $10 million of U. S. defense 
contract work. During his visit, he saw 
Sydney, New South Wales, Victoria and 
other major cities. 

CHARLIE SHEERIN is now practicing 
law in Chicago with the firm of Coin and 

Sheerin. After graduation Charlie spent two 
years in the Navy serving as legal officer 
aboard the USS. Saratoga. Following 
his discharge, he worked as law clerk to 
the late Justice John C. Lewe of Illinois 
Appellate Court in Chicago. In 1958, he 
joined the National Labor Relations Board 
and worked in both Washington and 
Chicago for several years. With this 

background, he joined the Brunswick Corp. 
in Chicago as a labor attorney and later 
as corporate labor counsel. While with 
Brunswick, he married the former Marina 
Borunais of Chicago in 1965. He entered 
the private practice of law in 1968, 

engaging in matters concerning corporate, 
labor, banking, real estate and probate work. 
Charlie is a member of the Bars of Indiana 
and Illinois. 
ARMAND DEATRICK went into 
private practice after graduation in Alma, 
Mich., where he spent 10 years with the 
firm of Fortino, Piaxton, Deatrick and 
Sheldon. In 1965, he became senior 
assistant corporation counsel for Oakland 

County, Mich. Armand is married and has 
five children and is now residing in 
Pontiac, Mich. 

VINCE RAYMOND'S wife wrote to inform me that Major Vince Raymond is presently the judge advocate at the Bien Ho Air Force Base in South Vietnam. After his graduation, Vince began his career as an Air Force officer. Some of his outstanding accomplishments have been duty at the Air Force Liaison Center in Paris, working in international law, teaching at the Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs; and later serving as assistant staff advocate at the Air Force Academy. During his academy tenure, he was nominated and chosen as the Outstanding Young Lawyer of the Year in Air Force competition, spon­sored by the Federal Bar Assn. and the Air Force judge advocate general's office. He was next assigned to the Air Force Logistics Command Headquarters at Wright Patterson Field in Dayton, Ohio, where he was awarded an accommodation medal for outstanding contributions in procure­ment law. Shortly before his assignment in Vietnam, Vince was the only Air Force lawyer who attended the recent Armed Forces Staff College in Norfolk, Va., which is a joint school under direct supervision of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and prepares career officers for positions in joint com­mands involving more than one country or mifitary service. We have just received word that Vince has been promoted to lieutenant colonel in the Air Force. I am sure our entire class joins me in con­gratulating Vince Raymond for an out­standing career. 
John P. Coyne 810 National City Bank BIdg. Cleveland, Ohio 44114 

'S6 CHEER UP, BOYS Cheer up boys — we may not have won the Cotton Bowl, but we won the Nichols Invitation Hockey Tournament in Buffalo on Jan. 3. The varsity hockey team, mostly 
freshmen and sophomores, defeated U. of Perm for the championship. 
At the Southern Cal-ND post-same tally Oct 18, ED COSGROVE saw VINCE FABINI, who flies with Pan American and lives in Miami; JOE YAEGER, flying for American Airlines and Uving in DaUas; JACK CASEY, TOM CAPLET, LEO LINBECK, before the game (Leo had to return to Houston befoie the game); JIM MASSEY, JOHN FANNON, with Champion Paper Cb., living In Cin­cinnati; Rev. TOM CHAMBERS, Tector of Morrissey HaU; GORDON DiRENZO, professor at Indiana U., Soudi Bend; JIM SASSO, living and working out of San Jose, Calif, (wonders where JCHINNIE ROGERS is); DICK CROWLEY, stiU a bachelor, working in structural steel in Hanisburg, Pa.; TONY GASTRIN!, a patent lawyer in Washington, D.C4 DON CARLIN, MARK BURNS and CHET MITCHELL; JERRY MANN, vdio is now working for the city of Pasadena, Calif. (It was Jerry's first time back at school); DON MOSER, New Albany, Ind., who has four children and is In the laimeiy busi­ness; Rev. MKE MOONEY OFM, chap­lain at a boys' reformatory In Cleveland; DICK BROWN, five chiklren and in the construction business in Princeton, IlL; JOHN KENNEDY, teaching law at the U. of Kentucky Law School; JOHN KEN­NEDY of New York City, in investment banking and still a bacbdor; TONY BALESTROVITSCH, Wyandotte, Mich., with eight chSdren and in the api^iance business; JOHN ("SKINNY') BRCM>­ERICK, eight children, trucking business, Chicago; DICK O'CONNOR and TONY SILVA. 
R. DONALD BECHAMPS, Jackson, NJ., has been named manager of the de­partment of agriculture, state of New Jersey, horse breeding and development program and secretary of the New Jersey Equine Advisory Board. DAVID C. GOOD­FELLOW is working at Bell Aero^stems in Tucson, Ariz. CHARLES G. CONWAY is vice-president and trust officer and head of the corporate trust division of Southern California First National Bank in San Diego. Charh'e is active in the San Diego Junior Chamber of Commerce and the Mission Playhouse in Coronado, Calif. He's also a captain in the Marine Corps Reserve. 
Eugene P. O'Connor 668 EUicott Square Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 

'57 PROMISES, mOMISES My humble apologies for missing a column last issue. Well try to reform this year. May I wish one and aU a belated happy new year. 
Thanks to the efforts of DENNIS TROESTER, our class reunion was a suc­cess with cocktails served under a blue sky on the lawn of O'Shau^messy Hall. My memory being poor, I am only able to list a few in attendance: JOHN CUSACK, JOE LAUERMAN, JOE BOSSE, SY WOODY, TERRY KILBRHJE, JACK MURRAY, JIM HARRIS, BUD HUSE­CHILD, FRANK HENNESSY. TOM HUGULET, JERRY THEES, PAT SHEERIN, DAN GIBBS, JIM MILOTA, JACK O'DROBINAK, CHUCK GRACE, JIM O'SULLIVAN, JIM CULLENAN, ED HEALY and GUS SCIACQUA. 
Ed Healy has returned to South Bend with the Frank Sullivan Insurance Agency. 
Congrats to Jim O'Sullivan on pass­

ing the Illinois Bar exam in September. 
That's the only bar Jim has passed in 
years. Jim also has a M.B.A. from 
Northwestern. 

Is it true that that gay old bachelor 
John Cusack found his way down the 
marital path on Nov. 1? It's alleged 

he married DICK COUGHLAN's sister 
in Denver. Joe Bosse and wife, Joan, 
report they are now living in Detroit 

where Jo<! is auto account sales manager 
for Shakeproof. 

JOE REICH appeared on the Chicago 
scene on the eve of the Southern Cal game 
with a mutual pal from '56, TOM DONO­
VAN, and lured me out into the night 
lights of Chicago. Joe was happy to an­
nounce that he has formed the Schuck-
Reich Corp. in Colorado Springs, special­
izing in commercial investment and indus­
trial real estate. I have him lining up a 
couple of abandoned gold mines. 
Pat Sheerin organized a Purdue game 
bus charter which was a true blast 

(except for the game). Aboard were BOB 
CALABRESE, BOB RISDON and the 
writer. 

JOE RINK sent a beautiful report re­sulting from a tour of the East with his wife, Joan. Joe reports he hooked up with DON BARR and wife Jane. Don is general manager for Time, Inc., and lives in Stamford, Conn. The Barrs just had a new daughter, Elizabeth Joan. Congrats, "old buddy." Joe contacted JERRY BECHERT, EDDIE DEAN and JACK CASEY. Also, Sue and JOHN McMEEL (our president), made their appearance at O'Brian's Pub in New York. Champagne flowed. Joe then wound up the trip with the RON D'AMICOs and TOM EDWARDS in Connecticut 
Counts to GREG SULLIVAN who has 
left Chicago for a promotion with the 
Kimberly-Clark Corp. as a division man­
ager. He and wife Judy have taken up 
new residence in Bethel Park, Pa. 

Again I must give the Annual Sports Fan award to Patrick Sheerin for the most games attended. Pat hit New Orleans and completely demolished Tulane before the team got there. He ganged up with MANNY RIVAS, MOORE McDONOUGH and ED SULLIVAN while there. Pat also joined yours truly to the Pitt game where we were fortunate to be taken imder the wings of DAN BEGGY, DICK SWIFT, RICK JACOB, Greg Sullivan, MIKE BOYLE and VINCE DOOLEY and had a wonderful weekend. The note Dan put in my pocket indicates the score was 49-7 and that our waitress' name was Vickie. Thanks, Dan and Rick, for pointing us West before you left us. We wound up the home season with BOB COYNE, JACK O'DROBINAK, Bob Calabrese and of course the "Patrick" at the Morris Inn. The "Patrick," BOB SALVINO, Bob Calabrese and myself attended the Cotton Bowl game. 
George W. Groble 111 W. Washington Chicago, III. 60602 

'59 NO NEWS — NO COLUMN You are ri^t! There was no '59 column in the December issue of this magazine because there was no news! I am appealing again to you, and especially to your wives, to write to us. Please? 
GERALD EDMUND PARKER joined the U. of Missouri (Rolla) faculty for the 
current academic year, after receiving his 
M.S. from St Louis U. and completing course requirements for his Ph.D. at at S.L.U. E. M. COLLINS has a son, Breck (7), and two dau^ters, Dreda (S) and Virginia (2), is living in Memphis and is vice-president of E. L. Merlere, Inc. He received an M.B.A. from Memphis State last month and saw the RANDY McELHONEs in Las Vegas last summer. JIM FARRELL has been appointed in­vestment officer for the College Retirement Equities Fund. Jim is an investment spe­cialist for the automobile, electrical equip­ment, airline, machinery and photography groups. RICHARD E. BYRNE is dean of students at Fort Pierce (Fla.) Junior High School and claims, "The Treasure Coast is a beautiful place to swim, sun, listen to ND football and raise kids!" The THOMAS J. SMITHS' fourth child was bom May 30. Other children are Kathy (9), Kevin (7) and Susie (2). His wife writes, "Tom had hoped to make the 10 year reunion but 'Planned Parenthood' doesn't always happen as planned." 
Dr. ROBERT E. KRIBEL was named acting assistant professor of physics at Drake U., and joined the liberal arts faculty last month. Before going to Drake, Bob was employed by Gulf General Atomic as a member of its plasma physics research group. His M.S. and Ph.D. are from the U. of California. JOHN S. FITZPATRICK is the first lay principal at Grand Rapids (Mich.) Catholic Central 
H.S. BRUCE J. MacINTYRE lives in Billings, MonL He and Maiy Jo have four children, two boys and two girls. After being involved in the various phases of the automobile business, Bruce now serves as president of Maclntyre Motor Co., Cadillac and Pontiac. 
Joseph P. Mulligan 
Admissions Office 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
'« AN OFFICIAL HALT JOHN CASARINO has had his psychiatric residency interrupted by the Air Force. He was going to be a captain in Bien Hoa, Vietnam, last September. KEN KUPPERS is an institutional stockbroker in London for Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith. He asked anyone who might be in London to look him up. Pat and JOE KIRK are living in Des Bois, Pa. Joe is plant manager for his father's creamery there. The Kirks have four children. They flew to Atlanta for the Georgia Tech game and visited with STEVE SCHARFEN­BERG and his wife. Sue, and baby Julie. They had just moved from Texas. Pat told me that DAVE CORMIER and his wife, Pauline, and their three daughters stopped on their way through Pennsylvania last August Dave is working on his Ph.D. in aerospace at ND. 
DANIEL RISHER is Uving in Pitts­burgh, working at Westinghouse Electric Corp. after receiving his doctor of science degree in nuclear engineering from the 
U. of Virginia. He is married and has one son. PAUL MAHAR is now in the Army Medical Corps as a captain, after complet­ing his residency in Ophthalmology at Manhattan Eye and Ear Hospital. After ND, Paul spent four years in med school at Ohio State U. TOM MARTIN, JIM GILBERT and JAY POWERS were his classmates. Jay has completed a residency in physical medicine at OSU and is also in the Army, stationed at Letterman 

Congrats 
RAPHAEL M. KELLY '61 has been named manager of the Jacksonville (Fla.) office of Hayden, Stone, Inc., a member of the New York Stock Exchange. Kelly began his career in securities following a tour of duty with the Marine Corps. He joined Hayden, Stone in January, 196S. 
FREDERICK J. FITZSIMMONS '62 has been promoted to sales training and product manager of the Flint division of Baxter Laboratories, Inc. With the company for two and a half years, Fitzsimmons has re­located in the Morton Grove, HI., area. 
THOMAS H. FOX JR. '62 has as­sumed the position of manager of market research for the Anderson Electric Corp., Leeds, Ala. The father of three children. Fox joined Ander­son in 1967. He and his family reside in Mountain Brook, Ala. 
JOHN R. SHEETS '64 has been pro­moted to banking services oflScer for business development of Wells Fargo Bank's 464 California St. office in San Francisco. A resident of Oakland, Sheets joined Wells Fargo in 1967 and after completing the management training in 1969, was assigned to the marketing department, where he was subsequently named marketing officer. 
JOHN THOMAS TRACEY CSC '65 is stationed in Montreal after his ordination to the priesthood in Saint John, N.B., Canada. 
THOMAS J. DOTY '66 has been appointed director of advertising in the marketing department of the Philadelphia Saving Fund Society. Doty recently completed his Navy tour of duty as a lieutenant, serving in Korea and Philadelphia. 
General Hospital. JAY MACEDONIA and CHUCK MALONY have also completed med school and are in residency programs in Columbus, Ohio. Paul also mentioned that he met DICK HENDRICKS in Chi­cago and he is in otolaryngology residency and TODD EMANUEL who is complet­ing ophthalmology training at St. Louis. Paul is married to the former Kathleen Conroy and the Mahais have four girls and a son. Paul also mentioned he saw PAT KELLY who is practicing law in Victoria, Tex. Thanks for the news, Paul. 
CHUCK LeROSE is in his eighth year of teaching at Mendel Catholic in Chicago, where he is also the head baseball coach. The LeRoses have a son, Charles Richard, 18 months old. LYN PAUL RALPH mar­ried the former Gloria Shermo in 1961 and they have a son and daughter. Lyn received his M.A. in English from UCLA in June, 1963, and should be receiving his Ph.D. this fall. He has taught at Loyola U. in Los Angeles with an instructor's rank. Lyn accepted the job at Chicago State College for the fall of 1966 with the rank of assistant professor and has just received tenure to start in the fall of 1970. 
William Henneghan 
30556 Scrivo Warren, Mich. 48092 
'62 AN AVALANCHE The Christmas season brought an avalanche of information. FRANK MOORMAN writes from Sacramento, Calif., where he is assigned to McClellan Air Force Base. Frank, holding the rank of captain, re­cently returned from Thailand and is making the Air Force a career. He and his wife, Mitzi, have three children. JOE BOLT is an Army major presently in Panama. Joe has two children. 
MIKE HART is the new business man­agement manager of the Newark, NJ., sales office of Ford. Mike and Dottie have four children. Mike relates that they spent a recent evening with JOE GATTI and wife, Sara. Joe is a member of the Presidents Club, Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Co., and lives in Fairlawn, NJ. 
LEE FLEMING sends a newsy letter from Dallas, of all places, about some of the 1962 Texans. Lee is presently teaching business courses at EI Ceatio Junior College in Dallas. MIKE MORROW is in law practice for himself in Big D. Mike is married with one child. CHUCK SLADEK is in his eighth year with the All State Insurance Co. in Dallas, where he is super­visor in charge of the commercial casualty department BILL SCHUSTER is teaching at Jesuit Prep in Dallas. MIKE DUNIGAN is working with his father at the Dunigan Oil Co. in Pampa, Tex. Mike and wife, Susan, were recently blessed with their first child. Lee continues and states that on a recent visit to Houston he ran into SEAN FITZGERALD, who is a resident at Methodist Hospital and studying under Dr. Debakey to become a neurosurgeon. PETER DOYLE, TOM KLETT and FRANK PATOUT are all in Houston. Pete is in charge of the real estate division of the Linbech Construction Co. T.K. is a stockbroker and Frank is an architect Imagine all of the boys from Texas had a ball during the Cotton Bowl week. Thanks, Lee, for all the info. 
PETE MALONEY sent a note from Albany, N.Y., where he is a technical service engineer for Clemente Brothers Concrete. TONY DEAN is now employed as a senior engineer at DuPont's Carney Point, NJ., plant Tony is married and has three children. 

H. James Krauser 8301 Garfield St Bethesda, Md. 20034 

'«3 TOM WAS MARRIED AND . . . TOM CALOGERO was married in March and is an assistant professor of English at Oswego State U. here in New York. MYRON BUSBY is hanging out at St Mary of the Woods College in Terre Haute, Ind., as director of admissions. C. G. TOPPING, please send Myron your address, he wants to send you a wedding present! Buz reports that JOHN McCULLOUGH is an attorney in Boston. EM WYSS reports three deductions so far of the small variety. He's an attorney in Alton, III. Em re­ports that BILL SMITH is back from Vietnam, and is in St Louis. BOB ABLERTINI is throu^ medical school and has at least two boys. Thanks for the nice note, Em. 
Very nice note here from Pat Swed, wife of BOB SWED, who is working for Papa DuPont in Wilmington, selling for the elastomers department Pat reports that their second child is due in March. MIKE KOVAC and wife, Midge, are living in Chicago while Mike completes work on his doctorate at Northwestern. Pat also reports that DICK ANTONSON is working for DuPont at Deepwater, NJ. Thanks for the letter, Pat, my dad has 40 years in with DuPont; a [Measure to hear you like the Wilmington area. Some guys have all the luck. DENNIS FAVERO is working in Honolulu, Hawaii, for a year. He received his M.B.A. from U. of Arizona and is working for Touche Ross and Co. The Favero family extends an open invite to ND family to visit their place in Honolulu. 
Another thoughtful wife, Leslie Bailey, relates that JIM BAILEY is proud papa for third time, each time a girl. Leslie is glad that ND is finally taking girls! (well, almost). Lovely change of address card here from BILL VASU, now living at 400 E. S9th St, so guess nothing new with the New York set Another Army card is Cr. DAVE GRAHAM, father of two and now working at an internal medicine residency in Houston. 40S7 Mischire is the address. 
AL SOMMERS was recently named assistant vice-president at the National Bank of Commerce in Memphis, Tenn. Christmas card from the JIM MALLINGs announces their move to Ridgefield, Conn. Jim will be working as a product manager for Northern Towels American Can Corp. The Mailings have twins aged 2'/i. 
NICK WALZ and family sent a nice picture Christmas card. Nick graduated from ND with an M.B.A. (in the 'first dass, I believe), and is settled in New Rochelle with two children, wife, and new finance job with TWA. Address: 83 Bon Airm, 
N.Y. DENIS O'DONOGHUE is Uving in Wayne, NJ., flying for American Airlines and has one son. MIKE MCCARTHY living on the Vassar campus in Fou{^­keepsie, N.Y., with wife and dau^ter. He's teaching philosophy. Denis tells me that MIKE SEXTON is training to be an astronaut at the AF test pilot school at Edwards AF base in California. FRANK PIRO is completing internship with the Army in SF, and was married last year. 
JOHN BRUNO heard to be running the Pen and Pencil restaurant in Manhattan. Thanks for the info, Denis. TOM LONGE­WAY is national sales manager for Tape Distributors of America. He's living in Buffalo Grove, III., with wife and two children. Tom reports that DON O'SHEA has law practice in East Moline. BILL TOTZKE and his wife, Marie, have three children. Also STEFF WELLSTEIN should be returning from Navy duty as a dentist in Vietnam. 
Capt GEORGE H. WARD is a navigator on the B-52 selected to represent the 72nd Bomb Wing at Ramey AFB, P.R., at the "Worid Series of Bombing." 
GEORGE Q. EVANS is a third-year law student at U. of Mississippi School of Law. He is managing editor of Mississippi Law Journal. 
Tom Hotopp 55 Churchill Place R.D. No, 1 
Big Flats, N.Y. 14814 

'M HERE'S HOPING I hope you all had a happy holiday season and that the year 1970 and this entire decade hold much happiness and success in store for you all. 
Our classmates continue to be in the news in the 70's as they have been ever since graduaUon. RAYMOND MYERS was named president of the American Optometric Student Assn., a newly formed organiza­tion of students in optometry schools throughout the nation. Ray will be graduat­ing from optometry at Indiana U. this month. PATRICK J. KELLY is currently in his final year at Loyola Dental School, where he ranks fifth in a class of 89 aspiring dentists. Pat and wife, Laura Lee, are the proud parents of a son, Patrick Jr. 
SIDNEY BAKER has been named assistant cashier of the St Joseph Bank and Trust Co. in South Bend. Sid was also elected a loan officer in the commercial loan department MIKE HANNIGAN JR. has been named district sales manager for Wheel Horse Products. 
1st Lt JOHN P. KUMINECZ won the USAF Commendation Medal at Rhein-Main AB, Germany. He was cited for out­standing achievement as a liaison informa­tion officer during a special military exer­cise conducted in Europe last April and May. Capt ROBERT A. PETRERO was awarded the Bronze Star Medal in cere­monies at the U.S. Army Engineer School, Ft Belvoir, Va. He was cited for meritorious service while assigned as inter­rogation officer for the Intelligence Advisoiy Sec., 5th Infantry Division, Army of the Republic of Vietnam. 
Also in Vietnam b 1st Lt LEROY GUSTKE who is serving with the 21st TacU'cal Air Support Squadron. USAF 1st Lt MATT BOYLE is an F-4 Phantom commander and pilot assigned to a unit of the Tactical Air Command. He previously served at Udom Royal Thai AFB, Thailand. ROBERT GARDNER, a cap­tain in the Army, recently completed his tour in Korea as an aviator. He is now back in the states where he and his wife, Diana, are with the Army at Ft. Walters, Tex. 1st Lt JAMES J. ROMANCHEK received his regular commission in the USAF at Chanute AFB, III. Jim is a data automation officer and recently held a USAF reserve commission as an AFROTC grad. Capt JOHN F. HANNIGAN JR. received a regidar commission in the 
USAF. He is a B-S2 StratoforUess heavy 
bomber pilot MIKE RUSH, a captain in 
the U.S. Army, is presently stationed in 
Heidelberg where he is serving as the 
aide-de-camp to Gen. James H. Polk, the 
commander-in-chief of the U.S. Army in 
Europe. Ens. BILL BENDER writes from 
DaNang where he is serving as director of 
the Dry Provisions Unit for the Navy 
Supply Depot Bill handles all canned 
provisions going into Northern South 
Vietnam. 
PAUL SESSA's lovely wife, Marie, bad 

their first child, Jacqueline Marie, last 
June. Paul plans to get his Ph.D. from 
Georgia Tech in chemical engineering in 
June, 1970. PETE CAREY and his 
charming wife, Mary, also are the proud 
parents of a beautiful daughter, who was 
bom in December. JOHN DELAHANTY 
has received his master's degree from 
Harvard and is now teaching sociology at 
Fulton-Montgomery Community College, 
State U. of New York. ALBERT VITTER 
was awarded a master of arts by Princeton 
U. JAY McGOWAN is enrolled in a doctoral program at Columbia. 
ALBERT F. SCHECKENBACH received his M.A. in behavior modification at the August graduation at Southern Illinois U. DAVID JOHN BERINCER received his doctorate last August from Iowa State U. LARRY HEPPNER is finishing his final year in Dental School at Loyola U. He is serving as vice-president of his class. 
Richard H. Angelotti 
8640 S. 86th Ave., Apt 203 
JusUce, 111. 60458 
'67L NEWS ABOUT THE NEW 
New year, new home, new job. We have 
bought a house in East Haven. I am now 
an employee of the IRS (estate tax attor­
ney). The hope is that with this training 
and some additional schooling, I'll be able 
to become an expert in this field. 
New address department: HARGROVE: HQ Co., HQBN-OSJA, 1st Mar. Div. FMF, FPO San Francisco, 96602. Flo and I managed to see Jane and John and Little David before John shipped out "Little" David is built like a Sherman tank. SULLIVAN: 738 Beverly Park Place, Jackson, Mich. The big news is that Tom has been made an associate partner with Domke, Marcaux, Bearman and Allen. Kudos. COUCH: 200 B. 89th St, Virginia Beach, Va. 24351. The newlyweds apparently can't find time to write. 
MAGNOTTA: Jeanne and Al are now at 902 S. Eaton, Albion, Mich. Unreported in this column was the birth of their daughter, Micheline, in Feb., 1969. BERTHOLD: Margaret is maintaining their home at 1840 Carriage Lane, Apt 278, Charleston, 
S.C. 29407. Jerry is aboard the VSS Wrangell, cruising the Mediterranean until March. They will soon enjoy their firstborn, due in April. When he leaves the service in March 71, Jerry is seriously considering Colorado for his practice. 
MEYER: 3020 N. J4th St, Apt 221, Phoenix, Ariz. 85014. Paul and JOE MARTORI are associates in the same firm but they may have to move aside. Rosemary is in her second year of law at Arizona State. MONTEROSSO: 4527 Lockdale Dr., Sterling Heights, Mich. 48077. Dom is employed by Chrysler Financial Corp. in Detnait 
New baby department: Julie and JOE MARTORI are celebrating the birth of Joe II on Sept 20 and they are planning to 
build a home in the near future. Joe does 
occasionally see JOHN NELSON, who is 
also in Phoenix. Mary Jo ROE writes 
"nothing new except our new little girl." 
(!) Mary Cathleen, bom Nov. 6, is the' 
Roes' fourth child and second girl. 
KONOPA: Mary Ann finally let us know 
that she had another girl, Kimberly Ann, 
on Sept 27. Bob is still with the Cnim­
packer firm in South Bend. 
James C. Heinhold 
20-3 Bedford Ave. 
Norwalk, Conn. 06850 
'68 SOME LEFTOVERS 
I would like to begin this column with some 
news that I hadn't been able to report 
earlier due to a shift of bases during my 
Army training. 
KENNY LEFOLDT and BRUCE 

HESKETT have fim'shed armor school at 
F t Knox, Ky. and are stationed at F t 
Lewis, Wash. JIMMY FISHBURNE and 
his lovely wife, Barbara, are at F t Bragg, 
N.C., where Jimmy is a training officer in 
the Basic Training Center. 
GEOFF SARM was married to Miss 

Chris Rapetti, formerly of SMC, and after 
a six-month stint in the reserves is working 
as a salesman for Del Monte Foods in 
California. 
Congratulations to JAY MANNELLY on 
his marriage to Miss Patty Wilson on 
Aug. 16 in Augusta, Ga. Also congratula­
tions to BRIAN KELLER on his marriage 
to Miss Sue Carroll on Sept 26 at 
Garden City, L.I. Brian is working for 
the Secret Service in New York City. 
Pvt GEORGE HORN is stationed in 

Hawaii, while Sgt PETER TOOMEY is 
a drill instmctor at the 2nd Basic Combat 
Training Brigade, Ft. Dix, NJ. MIKE 
BROWNING is stationed in the military 
district of Washington. Along with your 
class secretary in Vietnam are JOHN 
KAMP, who is with the 1st Logistics Com­
mand at Qui Nhon. Lt BILL LINEHAN 
is with the America! Division, and Lt JIM 
TIDGEWELL is with H.H.C. 413 Inf. 
Continuing with news from back in the worid. JIM O'ROURKE is stiU at Temple 
U. and should receive his master's in May of 1970. JOHN SICILIANO took some time oft from his law studies at the U. of Virginia to complete his reserve training, and MIKE CARTY is in his second year at Cornell U. Business School. 
Pfc. Leonard J. Pellecchia 
148-36-8584 
1st Inf. Div. 
A Btry 8th Bn 6th Arty 
APO S.F. 96345 
'6SL NEWS VIA CARDS 
One nice thing about Christmas is that 
people feel that as long as they are writing 
Christmas cards anyway, they might as well 
include something for the ALUMNUS. I 
even heard from people I thought had disappeared. FRANK SMITH sent a card from Viemam, where he has been since September. Frank is now working in the headquarters of the 44th Medical 
Brigade at Long Binh, which he claims is one of the safer places in Vietnam. (I didn't know there were any safe places there. That's why I joined the Navy.) In a mere seven months or so, hell be a free man. MIKE WILLIAMSON mailed his greetings from Seoul. Althougb he admits it's not the greatest place in the worid, he seems to have adjusted to it Mike is headins for the altar. Last August, he 
became engaged to Juanita Wilmat 
Before this tets to sound like an issue of 
Stars and Stripes, let me return to the 
home front The newest SCRIPP is a boy, 
Stephen, who weighed in at 6 lbs., 14 oz., 
and is already nkknamed Rocky. JOHN is 
busy suing the school board in Milwaukee 
over school lunches for the undeiprivikfed. 
PETE KING has a couple of reasons to 
celebrate. Rosemary is now expecting. Tlie 
baby is due in June. And Roy Cohn's trial 
has ended in an acquittal. During the trial, 
Pete handled most of the firm's business 
and spent many a ni^ t sleeping in the office. 
Pete informed me that JACK SANDNER is 
to be married on Valentine's Day. Jack is 
general counsel at the Commodities 
Exchange in Chicaga and doing very welL 
It looks Uke TOM CURTIN wiU also be 
heading toward the altar, but in September. 
And DICK MANNING has gone to work 
for a tax firm. Dick must really have gotten 
a lot out of those two Saturday tax classes 
he went to. 
That's it for now. Don't let Christmas be 
the only time you get in touch. 
Dennis C. Thelen 
7816 Lisa Dr.. Apt 202 
Norfolk, Va. 23518 
'«» THE 'CtERS* DOINGS 
In the Christmas mail, I received word of 
the doings of various '69ers around the 
U.S. MATT DWYER has moved his family to Quantico, Va., where he will be running through the hills of the Marine reservation from 6:00 ajn. to 7:00 pjn. until mid-May. He will then proceed to Newport R.I.. for 10 weeks of Naval Justice Sbbool. The Dwyers managed to get to Atlanta for Christmas, and while there saw Sue and DENNIS MACKIN. The Mackins have themselves written to say that all is well in Atlanta and that they enjoy that city veiy much. 
On behalf of our class I wish first to extend deepest sympathy to the family of LANCE RIEMERSMA, and especially to Kris Riemersma, at Lance's death Dec. 29, 1969, in Los Angeles, Calif. It had been my hope that many years would pass before our class would begin to suffer the tragic, yet inevitable, loss of its members. 
Peggy and JON PAUL RUBACH have settled in Buffalo, N.Y., and the word from Peggy is that Jon Paul is actually enjoying medical school—but the dope-sheets there leave something to be desired. TONY "SQUID" SIEMER, in the mean­time, has himg his shingle up in Teutopolis, 
III. Things being a little slow at the largest Pure Oil truck stop in the U.S., however, Tony has decided to take a vacation, and he is seriously considering a trip out here to Denver. 
From New Jersey, there came word from JOE "ZEP" FRANTIN that he has been trying to change our professional image by his frequent visits to New York City's ni^ t spots. The scene of his activities will change briefly in March when Zep and "BIG OTT" will be two of the feature attractions in the "blow out" to be given in honor of JOE "ZEP" KENNEDY'S wedding in Chicago. 
Please note my new address in Denver, and let me encourage you all to drop me a line when you get a chance. 
ScoU Atwell 1049 Humbolt Denver, Colo. 80218 

GRADUATE SCHOOLS 
BIOLOGY 
The Christmas season brings many greet­
ings and in addition, some news. JAMES 
P. MANION Ph.D. '52 is now vice-president of Carroll College, Helena, Mont DONALD LEARY Ph.D. is associate professor of biology at Providence College, Providence, R.I. JAMES Mac-MAHON Ph.D. and CHARLES CHAN­TELL Ph.D. are on the faculty of the department of biology, U. of Dayton, Dayton, Ohio. JOSEPH BASTIAN Ph.D. '69 is currently a postdoctoral research associate in our department here at ND. BENEDICT J. JASKOSKI M.S. '42 Ph.D. '50 is a professor of biology at Loyola U., Chicago. He retired from the 
U.S. Naval Reserve on July 1, 1969, after serving 26 years of active and reserve duty. During 1967-69, Ben was commanding officer of Naval Reserve Research Com­pany 9-10, Evanston, 111. This company was selected as the top group of 92 similar groups in the country. A trophy in recog­nition of this accomplishment was pre­sented to Cdr. Jaskoski on Jan. 23, at the officers' club at Great Lakes, III. 
Your correspondent sends all the best of holiday greetings. My address is the same, the zip code (if that is what delays your writing) is 46556. 
Ralph E. Thorson 
Department of Biology 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
ENGUSH 
JOHN S. TUCKEY Ph.D. '54 has edited 
Mark Twain's Which IVas the Dream? and Other Symbolic Writings of the Later Years for the U. of California Press' definitive series of the Mark Twain papers. Dr. Tuckey, professor and chairman at the Calumet campus of Purdue U. in Hammond, is also author of Mark Twain and Little Satan and Mark Twain's The Mysterious Stranger and the Critics. 
The new chairman of the English department at Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, is PAUL MESSBARGER 
M.A. '58. He later received his doctorate from the U. of Minnesota and taught at Marquette U. At the national meeting of the American Studies Assn. in Toledo on Oct 30, he read a paper on "Popular Catholic Fiction." 
Sr. MARY URBAN KRUPP M.A. '59 has been appointed chairman of the English department at Mary Manse College, Toledo, Ohio. Sr. MARY DAMASCENE CSSF Ph.D. '58 is professor of English at Madonna College, Livonia, Mich. WILLIAM JOSEPH PALMER Ph.D. '69 is on the faculty at Purdue U. And J. PATRICK DWYER M.A.T. '68 is teaching at McCIuer Senior High School in St. Louis, Mo. 
Indiana U. Press has brought out 
Tender Is the Night: Essays in Criticism by MARVIN J. LAHOOD Ph.D. '62, pro­fessor at the State U. College, Buffalo, 
N.Y. Music in Willa Cather's Fiction by RICHARD GIANNONE Ph.D. '64, associ­ate professor at Fordham U., has been published by the U. of Nebraska Press. 
"Footnotes" is the newsletter of the ND English department. Alumni who have not received the November, 1969, issue should write either to me or to the department because we do Dot have your latest address. "Footnotes" reports de­partmental and faculty activities as well as news of both alumni and present stu­dents. Any items sent to me will be shared with the editor of "Footnotes," Prof. LOUIS HASLEY M.A. '31. 

Robert M. Slabey 
Department of English 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
HISTORY 

The Christmas mail brought welcome news from a number of alumni from the rock­bound coasts of Nova Scotia to the sunny shores of California — to offer an original observation. TIM O'KEEFE writes from the latter that he is still at Santa Clara and that he and Mrs. O'Keefe were unable to join the Peace Corps, as they had planned, but had to be content with a three-month pleasure trip in Europe instead. What sacrifices we academicians make in our headlong pursuit of truth and wisdom! 
AL BALAWYDER is acUng chairman of the history department at St Francis Xavier U., Antigonish, Nova Scotia, this year. He spent last summer doing research in London and is currently very much on the lookout for someone who can teach German history and who would like to get away from crowds, traffic jams, smog, stream pollution and racial turmoil in some nice quiet place like, say. Nova Scotia. Anyone interested should write him. 
PATRICK O'DEA is still at St Bona­venture U., where he has been for many years editor of the book review section of Cithara. DAVID GARIBALDI is back in Albany, N.Y., writing his doctoral dissertation after returning from several months of research in Europe. RICHARD PANTEL is at Loras College in Dubuque, along wtih such comparative ND old-Umers as DICK BALFE and JIM WHITE. Jim wrote me some weeks ago that he and Miriam have added a new member to their family. 
CHARLES BAIER has been teaching at Lowry Air Force Base in Denver for several years. RICHARD O'MALLEY has been at St Joseph's College in Philadelphia for some years. Returnees from the A.H.A. convention report that Dick is preparing to take part in a black studies program at St Joseph's. 
Sr. MARY CURLEY is head of the 
history department at St Joseph's High 
School, South Bend. Bro. WILBERT 

LEVELING CSC who occupied that posi­
tion for many years, has gone to Holy 
Trinity High School in Chicago. 
I got a very nice card and earlier 

letter from Prof, and Mrs. JULIUS PRATT. 
They are now retired at 65 Evans St, 
Williamsville, N.Y. 14221, and would 

enjoy hearing from some of Prof. Pratt's 
ex-students here. 

Readers of this column (mother and you 
other three) are urged to emulate this 

splendid example and write me, preferably 
long before next Christmas, so I may 
include information about you to old 

comrades and cronies with whom you may 
have long since lost touch. 
Rev. JOHN TRACY ELLIS will be a 
visitor in the history department during 
the spring semester, offering courses in 

modem American Catholic Church history, 
and general Church history since the 
French revolution. 

The History Department Athletic Assn., fresh from a series of stirring confronta­tions on the Softball field this past summer, has now entered a team in a campus basketball league. While we are a bit short on height, speed, agility, ball handling, shooting, defense and stamina, we are superb in age, weight, experience, stability, excellence and a sense of com­munity. Too bad Alcindor is not still at UCLA to afford us a real test 
Bernard Norling 
Department of History 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
LAW SCHOOL 

Judge Henry J. Friendly, of the federal Court of Appeals in New York, and Chief Justice Roger J. Traynor of the Supreme Court of California were among the distinguished jurists who heard the final ND Moot Court arguments in February. Student finalists were James P. Harrington (Montana, Carroll College, U. of Wyo­ming), Robert P. LaRusso (N.Y., lona College), Robert J. Quinlan (Wis., St Thomas) and Richard W. Slawson (Ore., ND). Prof. Peter W. Thornton is the moot court adviser. 
Dean William B. Lawless and Associate Dean Thomas L. Shaffer represented the University at the annual meeting of the Assn. of American Law Schools in San Francisco. Dean Lawless addressed the Thomas More Society, on "Why a Catholic Law School?" Dean Shaffer participated in the work of the committee on teaching methods and delivered a paper on empirical research in the law of trusts and estates. 
FRANCIS X. BEYTAGH JR. '56, assistant solicitor general of the United Slates, has been appointed professor of law at ND. He will begin teaching in the public law area in September. Beytagh is a magna cum laiide English major. His legal education was at the U. of Michigan, where he graduated first in a class of 350 and was editor-in-chief of the Michigan Law Review. He was a law clerk for former Chief Justice Earl Warren, prac­ticed two years with a large firm in Cleveland and has been in the Justice Department since 1966, representing the 
government in the Supreme Court. He is a Georgia native; he and his wife have three children. 
Prof. Harris L. Wofford Jr., who taught at ND from 1959 to 1962, and who has been president of the State U. of New York, Old Westbury, was recently appointed president of Bryn Mawr College. 
Profs. Roger Paul Peters and Edward 

F. Barrett will retire from the law faculty of the Southwestern Law School, Los Angeles. Two ND lawyers will be in legal education in that smoggy city next year; Associate Dean Thomas L. Shaffer has been appointed visiting professor at the 
U. of California Law School there and will be on leave from ND for 1970-71. 
Prof. Godfrey C. Henry was elected chairman of the University Committee for Afro-American Students. 
Prof. Barrett participated in a conference at the U. of Chicago on "Law Students in Court"; he is director of the ND practice court and a member of the A.B.A. comim'ttee on judicial admim'stration. The Chicago conference dealt with clinical programs in trial work, including represen­tation of clients under special court rules now prevailing in several states, including Indiana and Michigan. ND students are now working in courts in both of these states. 
JOHN L. HOFFER '6IL recenUy moved back to South Bend to become assistant vice-president and trust oflicer of the First Bank and Trust Co. He has been in trust work in California and in Peoria. 
Prof. Charles W. Murdock's article, "A Primer for Compensating Executives in Closely Held Corporations," was reprinted in the June, 1969, Tax Counselor's Quarterly. 
For the second year, ND law students are involved in a program of law enforce­ment observation with the South Bend Police Department. Inspector Glenn Terry, police services division chief, directs the program for the officers; Joseph Leahy, third-year class president, directs it for the Law School. Alt of the students are volunteers who spend their tours of duty observing booking, interrogation and administration procedures and accompany­ing police officers in the field. 
Tom Shaffer Law School Notre Dame, Ind. 46S56 
In the Fall, 1969, 
Notre Dame Lawyer 

Arnold H. Leibowitz, "English Literacy: Legal Sanction for Discrimination" 
L.S. Tao, "Alcoholism as a Defense to Crime" 
Robert John Hickey, "Declaratory Or­ders and the National Labor Relations Board" 
Student notes on housing and federal in­come taxation and on the effect of sub­urban zoning ordinances and building codes on moderate and low-income housing 
Recent-decision comments on products liability of drug companies for drugs dispensed by physicians; and on voting residence requirements and the equal protection clause of the federal con­stitution 
Book reviews by Prof. Thomas R. Swartz and MERLE F. WILBERDING '69L 
Membership in the ND IMW Association is available to all ND law grads at well as those who attended the undergraduate school and are now attorneys. Member­ship in the association may be effected by forwarding name and address to: Miss Monica Jeffers Executive Secretary, ND Law Association Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
PHYSICS Happy new year to all of our physics Ph.D. grads, and may 1970 be a prosperous and peaceful year for you. Here are the names, addresses and important statistics for four more of our illustrious Ph.D. alumni, still vintage of the 19S0's. 
JOSEPH J. KEPES '57 (nuclear physics), wife, Joanne, and six children, Arthur, Therese, Christopher, Gerald, Nora and Mary Ann, live at 4741 Ackerman Blvd., Kettering, Ohio 45429. Joe received his B.S. degree from Ca.se Institute of Technology in 1953 and came to ND for his graduate work in physics. He completed require­ments for his Ph.D. degree in 1957, and then joined the Westinghouse Co., where he served as a senior scientist in Westing-house's Bettis Atomic Power Laboratory, Pittsburgh, Pa. He left Westinghouse in 1962 to join the department of physics at the U. of Dayton, where he has been doing an outstanding job as chairman of the department. (I hope he sends us many more good graduate students!) 
DONALD S. RAMPOLLA '59 (nuclear physics), wife, Patricia, and five children, Brian, Karen, Paul, Mary Beth and John, live at 5405 Sagebrush Dr., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15236. Don received his B.S. degree from ND in 1953, and stayed on for his gradu­ate work in physics. Like Joe Kepes, Don also went to work for Westinghouse, serving as a senior scientist in Westinghouse's Bettis Atomic Power Laboratory from 1958 to 1968. In 1968, Don was promoted to principal scientist at the Bettis Atomic Power Laboratory. Don is a member of the Pittsburgh South Hills Assn. for Racial Equality, and is also chairman of a physi­cal sciences task committee of a Title 111 
E.S.E.A. project to develop a science re­source center in the south hilts of Pitts­burgh. It sounds like Don is devoting a lot of extra time and effort to some very worthwhile causes. 
DAVID G. KEIFFER '56 (theoretical physics), wife, Jitt, and six chitdren, Molly, David, Richard, Thomas, Daniel and Susan, five at 7721 Freret, New Orleans, La. 70118. Jill is the daughter of Prof. Richard T. Sullivan of ND's department of English. After receiving liis Ph.D. from ND, Dave joined the faculty of the depart­ment of physics at Canisius College, Buf­falo, N.Y., serving first as assistant professor and later as associate professor of physics. Dave left Canisius in 1964 to accept the position of chairman of the department of physics at Loyola U., New Orieans, La., thereby returning to the same school from which he had received his B.S. degree in 1952. 
THOMAS E. WAINWRIGHT '54 (theo­retical physics), wife, Mary, and four children, Constance, Thomas, Rita and David, live at 955 S. L St, Livemiore, Calif. 94550. Tom joined the staff of the 
U. of California's Lawrence Radiation Laboratory at Livermore, after receiving 
his FbJ>. bom ND in 1954. Tom and Muy would like to hear from all of yoa. The editor says that's an for this time. 
Robert h. Anthony 
Department of Physics 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
SOCIOLOGY AND ikNTHBOHM4IGY The newest member of the department's illustiioas body of afaimni is PAUL CHAL­FANT, who rates special mention for the cdeiity with vWdi he compleied lus doc­toral disseftation. Despite not gathering his dau until the sammer of 1969, he had his dissertation thtou^ the readers by mid-December of the same year. Certainly this is a new track record for the depart­ment, an achievement that should isovide inspiration and hope to other doctoral candidates cauglit in the throes of the dis­sertation. Dr. Chalfant is currently teaching at Valparaiso U. 
One of our distinguished alumnae, Sr. MARY CHRISTCmiER CROURKE RSM, has assumed the presidency of Sahre Regina Ctrilege in Newport, RJ. She has our best wishes, prayers, commiseration and congratulatioiis. May it be that the state's game laws, unlike those in other jurisdictions, do not provide an open sea­son on college administrators. St. Patrick's College, an affiliate of Carieton U. in Ottawa, recently demonstrated its willing­ness to reward genuine professional talent iriien it promoted Rev. GORDON IRVING OMI to associate professor. MIKE CON­WAY, now in his second year on the staff at Bowling Green U. (Ky.), edits the school's soddogy Journal. 
Perhaps it woidd be appropriate to use some space to reiterate our gratitude to alumni who commend their own students to our graduate program. Each year several of our applicants are referred to us by ND degree-hidders. RegrettaUy, we are not always able to accommodate all who apply. We now have some confidence that in any given year more than 100 applica­tions will be processed, but with federal money for assistantships and fellowships being sharply curtailed, we find ourselves facing the prospect of being unable to accept more than 10-lS new students for September, 1!>70. We do try to give every consideration, however, to applicants re­ferred to us by former students. 
The department volleyball team, un­vanquished in three games to dat^ appears to be making a runaway of the Facidty Volleyball League. Our stellar aggregation represents a happy blend of old "pros" (D'Antonio, Koval and Vasoli) and himgty rookies (Weigert, Saha and Brandewie). What it lacks in height is more than off­set by qieed, finesse, teamwork, desire and sheer natural ability. A striking feature of the team's scintillating record is that it has been compiled in the face of the greatest of all adversities—objective officiating. Readers who remember the classic faciilQr-grad student voUqrball en­counters at departmental picnics, when both soordceeping and refereeing were considered UetHty prerogatives, may be understandably skeptical over the team's performance in a more orthodox setting. We would remind these skeptics of the pithy words of one famous sports person­ality: The cream always rises to the top! 
Robert H. VasoU Department of Sociology and Anthropology Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 


CLUBS 
Student Life Council, campus judicia­ry, hall life, minority enrollment. Mean anything to you? If you have an interest in Notre Dame they might If you want the opportunity to talk face-to-face with some of the people who live with the above and have some stimulating and enlightening thoughts on many aspects of life at ND, it can be worked out 
The ND Alumni-Student Relations Panel, a group of some 20 juniors and seniors, is in its second year of relating and communicating with the ND family. According to James D. Cooney, executive secretary of the Alumni Assn., the group was formed to "help bridge the communication gap between the alumni and students —^to create dialogue between the University's two largest constituencies. One of the best ways to know ND is to know the people who are ND." 
BERKSHIRES 
The ND Club of the Berkshires sponsored 
its first football excursion in 1969 and the 
event was a tremendous success. The 
attraction was the Army-ND game in 
Yankee Stadium, New York, Oct 11. 
Eighty people from the Berkshires made the two-day trip to the game by bus from Pittsfield. Accommodations were at the Essex House on Central Park South. A cocktail party was held at the hotel after the game and it was a merry crowd that gathered to "cheer, cheer for old ND." The crowd was even merrier because it was celebrating, with me, the birth of our third child that morning at 6:15. It was a close call, but I was able to see the game and return home early the next day to look in on little Paula Jane and my wife, Jane. 
Peter M. Maloney '62 
CHICAGO Over 125 of the best scholar athletes in the Chicago area were honored by the club at the annual Knute Rockne Dinner, Dec. 8, 1969, at the Sherman House. FRANK LEAHY, ELMER LAYDEN and ROCKY BLEIER presented the Rockne award for the outstanding football player in each of the Chicago area leagues to: Richard LaFollete of Lakeview, Public League; Mike Ellefson of Notre Dame Guiles), Catholic League; and Stan Jackson of Thornton Fractional North, Suburban League. 
A presentation of league championship scrolls was made by BILL ROEMER, cochairman of the dinner. A special award was made by JOE ARCHIBALD to Robert (Rocky) Bleier for exempli^ng the highest ideal and standards in the spirit of Knute Rockne and ND. Rocky was recently injured in Vietnam. A special recognition award was presented by ANTHONY G. GIROLAMI to DANIEL 
J. SHANNON, former ND captain and 
3B 
mI>/'.--i 

lint Cooney and Mike Jordan (center) hold court. 


Want a rap session? 
Members of the group have trav­
eled to various club functions around 
the country and have attended the 
regional meetings of the ND Alumni 
Senate. They are available to all ND 
clubs and arrangemen|s can be made 
through local club ofiicers. 

The group represents a spectrum of 
the student body, and includes mem­
bers of student government, minority 
groups and monogram winners. 

They have researched and are pre­
presently the president of the Chicago Park 
District 

Rev. EDMUND JOYCE CSC con­
gratulated the boys on their great ac­
complishments as scholars and athletes. He 
pointed out how proud the Univeisity is of 
them and its athletes who have done so 
well, both on the athletic field and 
academically. 

The principal speaker of the evening was Ara Parseghian, who was introduced by the toastmaster, JACK BRICKHOUSE. Ara introduced a number of the 1969 Fitting Irish football team and gave the gathering a scouting report on Texas and stated that he, the coaches and the team were ready and well able to represent the University in the Cotton Bowl on New Year's Day, 
Thomas F. Carey '55 

CINCINNATI The club held a dinner meeting at Mahogany Hall on Nov. 25. Following the business meeting, Ernie Wright of the Cincinnati Bengals gave an informal talk. 
This year's annual Universal Communion Breakfast was held again at Edgccliff Col­lege on Dec. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE H. KYTE JR. '61 were general cbaimien of the 24th annual scholarship and foiuidation ball, Dec. 19, at the Lookout House. As usual, this affair proved to be a great success. The highlight of the evening was the presentation of the Dome Award, which is presented to a person or an organization that is outstanding in perpetuating the spirit of Christmas. Tlie Salvation Anay was the recipient of the award this year. JOHN C. COTTINGHAM '38, advisoiy chairman of the dance, presented the award. 
J. Michael Cottingham '67 

DALLAS Needless to say, the Irish were in high 
pared to discuss such topics as resi­
dence hall life, religion at ND, social 
life, the campus judiciary, the Stu­
dent Life Council and the coex­
change program between ND and 
St. Mary's. 

So if you're interested in finding 
out more about life at ND these 

days and about the type of men who 
are filling your places in Sorin and 
Badin and down at Frankie's, contact 
your club officers. 

cotton on New Year's Day in Dallas. We are delighted that the team, coaching staff and administration initiated the new bowl policy by selecting our classic for its first bowl game in 45 years. The team cele­brated this decision by playing a mag­nificent game that made us immensely proud to be Irish in Longhom country. 
The final score notwithstanding, the game provided us with a truly memorable weekend. This being the most significant event in the club's history, many of our members gave much of their time in providing a real Dallas welcome to our many visitors. 
Club President ED FLEMING '63 and his wife, Kay, devoted all of their waking hours for weeks to coordinating the many efforts necessary to make the weekend a success. Special thanks also go to BOB WILLIAMS '59 and JOHN RONAN '56, who staged a joyous New Year's Eve party for over 2,200 people in Dallas Memorial Auditorium, complete with three bands, including the Magnificent Seven from the University. They received excellent assistance from JAY JONES '59, TED AMBERG, JOE BRASSARD '53, FRED EICHORN "44 and CHICK MARTIN '59. 
Team arrangements, including the meeting of 40 separate flights, were well-handled by JIM DENIG '66. The staffing of the Hospitality Suite at the Fairmont Hotel was accomplished by HUGH BRAY. Hugh also worked with ED HAGGAR "38 in making arrangements for entertainment of ' the team and other guests at Cielo Ranch the day after the game. 
The officers extend their thanks to the many members of the local club who provided the time and effort to make the weekend successful. We look forward to doing it all again next year wtih "Lon^om steak" on the menu. 
Paul Underkofler '58 DAYTON-SritlNGnELD JIM BRITT, the general chairman of the Dayton-Springfield SUMMA campaign, and all the people who assisted him in the drive extend their most sincere thanks to the NU alumni and supporters in the Dayton-Springfield area for their tremendous response to the local SUMMA challenge. As of the date of this writing, the Dayton-Springfield campaign was ranked first in the entire nation in terms of percentage over goal, having pledged approximately 325 per cent of the University-established goal of $35,000. 

A brief review of recent club activities includes the annual ND golf outing, last Aug. 29 at the Wahiut Grove Country Club. The outing and dinner afterwards were well attended and hi^ghted by the election of officers for the 1970-71 term: James C. Britt, president; WILLIAM McGUIRE and JOHN D. O'BRIEN, vice-presidents; WILLIAM SEALL, secretary; and JOHN TEHAN, treasurer. The freshmen send-oS picnic in September had its largest turn-out in many years. We were honored by the presence of JIM GIBBONS, director for special projects for ND. A gathering of recent graduates was held in November to acquaint them with each other and the ND club, and to discuss the functions and role of the club. On Dec. 22, the club held a raffle for four tickets to the Cotton Bowl game together with airline tickets and hotel accommodations in Dallas. The raffle drawing, which was accompanied by movies of the 1968 ND football highlit^ts and a talk by BRIAN REGAN, regional director of development, proved to be a hugefinancial success. All reports indicate that the raffle-winners, Mr. and Mrs. DONALD BECKERT, an ND alumnus from Piqua, Ohio, thoroughly enjoyed their week-end in "Big D." 
Upcoming activities include, among other things, plans for a party in connection with the ND-U. of Dayton basketball game on Feb. 28. The club has secured a large block of tickets for club members and has arranged for a postgame party in the VIP room of U.D.'s new fieldhouse, promising a gala evening for all those in attendance. All proceeds will go to the club's ND schol­arship loan fund. The club is working closely with Dr. Peter Grande, director of admissions, to develop and implement a continuing local recruitment program which will emphasize acquainting high school placement counselors as well as hi ^ school students with ND. Plans are also being formulated for the showing of 1969 ND football highh'ghts in a number of local parishes as soon as the films become available. The club's annual Communion Dinner will be combined with UND Ni^t this year to make the evening truly "Notre Dame" in spirit It is scheduled for early May. 
William H. Seall '68 
DEARBORN A new club activity was started Nov. 29, 1969, with a dinner at the Detroit Yacht Club. Members, wives and friends were guests of DICK KING '37 and wife Rosemarie. Cochairmen JERRY GASS '48 and DAVID "LARRY" DOLAN "47 should be praised for idanning such a fiin and sociable evening. We plan to continue this event in the future. 
Our next club event was the armual dinner-dance, Jan. 24, at the Bottsfotd Iim. Cochairmen DON HICKS 'S3 and BILL DECRICK '53 planned this event which 
also was the scene for the drawing of our 
annual "spirits" raffle. 
Tim Devine '65 
DETROIT The hospitality of Dallas will not be quickly forgotten by the 180 persons who flew South from Detroit for the Cotton Bowl. The well-organized trip, chaired by PETE SHAGENA, had many highlights, including the colorful parade, of course the game, and the enjoyable New Year's Eve party with the Dallas club. 
Mass was celebrated by Rev. JOSEPH 

RYDER, ML Clemens, Mich., on the 
mezzanine of the Dallas Hilton, iriiere the 
Detroit group stayed. All proceeds from 
the trip, estimated by club President TOM 
MOORE to be $3,000, will be added to the 
Detroit club's scholarship fund. 
BARNEY MORRIS '58, Detroit's 
distinguished TV newscaster, was heard 
commenting as he deplaned, "A good time 
was had by all." 
Coming events for the Detroit club 
include: the ND-U. of D. basketball game 
on Feb. 14; the annual club retreat at the 
Manresa Retreat House, Feb. 20-22; > St 
Patty's Day tour of the Stroh Brewery; and 
UND Night, at the Raleigh "Dome" House, 
April 20. 
Gary W. Dillon '65 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The annual corporate Communion was hehi 
at the Fatima Retreat House on Dec. 8 with 
Rev. KENNY SWEENEY and BO 
CONNOR '49 as cochairmen. The Euchar­
istic celebration was followed by cocktaib 
and dinner with 92 ND men and their wives 
in attendance. Both Archbishop Schulte 
and Archbishop Biskup were honored 
guests of the club at this successful event 
Ara, Assistant Coach Wally Moore and several members of the 1969 football team braved the sub-zero cold and snow to be present at the Ara Parseghian Dinner on Jan. 8 at the Indianapolis Athletic Club. Films of the Cotton Bowl were viewed with a narration by Coach Moore. Former ND Captain ROCKY BLEIER was in at­tendance and gave a very meaningful address to all the men, young and old, in attendance. BOB WELSH 'SO, chairman, was assisted by his committee, consisting of BOB KESSING '49, BOB KANE 'SO, BILL McGOWAN '57 and JOHN O'CONNOR '38. 
Tony Cancilla (assoc.), BOB CRONIN '45 and LARRY O'CONNOR '65 have aU the arrangements made for the 1970 scholarship ball. The date is Feb. 13 at St Pius X K of C, and Ralph Flanagan and his band will provide the music. Ths event will be the Indianapolis club's main effort to raise funds for the $4,000 scholar­ship fund. 
Lawrence A. O'Connor Jr. '65 
KENTUCKY 
Congratulations are in order for TODD 
HOLLENBACH on his election as county judge. We of Jefferson Cotmty know he 
will do a great job and wish him all the 
success in the world. 
The club would also like to express thanks for a job well done to JIM REMMERS for the freshman send-off party; RODG HUTER for a successful scholarship fund raffle; and BOB WILLEN­BRINK for the Communion dimier Dec 8. 
DON MOSER attended the last regional senate meetinf of alumni clubs held at ND, 
so aiqroae desiring the current news from 
annrnd the lution give Don a buzz. 
We are all hapfv to wefcome thereturn of 
our warrior from Vietnam, PAT DUFFY, 
but lAat's this about iqicDmiag nuptials?? 
CongratulatioiB, Duff! 
Mike Casper '64 
LAKE COUNTY The officers this year of the University of ND Club of Lake County. 111., are: president. Dr. JOHS D. VAN NUYS, Waukegan; vice-president, ALBERT S. SALVI, Lake Zurich; treasurer. JAMES W. WILMOT. Waukegan; and secretary, JOHN P. BURE, Deerfidd. 
The board of directors is comprised of the 
abovMiamed officers and the foUowing: 
STEPHEN W. BOLANDER. LibertyviUe; 
CHARLES A. QUINLAN JR., Mnnddein; 
Dr. ROBERT M. LAZO, Lake Forest; and 
PAUL E. KAMSCHULTE, Waukegan. 
Fifty of us had a most tajayMt outing 
on our annual bus football trip. This year 
we went down to the Navy game. Our 
next principal outing, the main one of the 
year, was the scholarship dinner-daiKe. It 
was Feb. 1. at the Parkway Restaurant in 
Waukegan. Cocktail hour was from 4:30 
to 6:30 and the dinner was served at 6:30. 
followed by dancing from 7:00 to 11:00. 
John P. Bure 'S7 
MAINE The ND Club ct Maine does hibernate a bit during the winter due to the tremendous distances between members. However, an informal meeting of the club was held at my home to watch the Cotton Bowl game. Needless to say. a good time is always bad when ND men gather. Those who managed to be there were Mr. and Mrs. JOHN B. BELIVEAU. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL SCULLY, Mr. and Mrs. TONY SILVA, Paul Gosselm 73, with his father, Hal, Gene Geiger '71, and several assorted friends of ND. 

The ND club will have the Univeisity Concert Band here m Lewiston for the fifth tfane on i^Kil 4. As usual, the monies obtained win go toward our scholarship fund, but this year we are sharing a bit with our local United Fund. Men of Maine have generaOy supported this endeavor but the local commimity has "backed it up solidty and does deserve a share of our receipts. 
What else can Maine report except snow and more snow and skiing at its best? 
Ray Geiger '32 

MIDmjDSDN VALLEY 
Highli^ts for the fall season revolved 

about tte Atmy-ND game in Yankee 
Stadium. We qnnsored a bus trip to the 
game and had a raffle for bus and game 
tickets. The raffle was a success, the 
proceeds going to the ND Foundation, the winning ticket going to BOB HORTON, Peekskill. N.Y. 
A good time was had by all on the bus trip to Yankee Stadium. Approximatety 8S ahimni. wives and guests attended and filled two busses. Since one of the busses was not equipped with restroom facilities, a minor crisis of a hydraulic nature oc­curred about two milesfirom Yankee Stadium, however we did arrive in time for the kick-off. 
New officers were recently elected for 1970: president, CONNOR HAUGH; vice-president, TED KENNEDY; secretary. 
ANDY SALANSKY; and treasurer, JOE 
GAGLIARDI JR. 
A. F. Salansky '57 
MILWAUKEE 
The alumni and their families got together 
for the annual Communion breakfast on 
Dec. 21. MARK PFALLER '43 was in 
charge of the event, which was at the St 
Charles Boys Home, as it has been in the 
past 
Rev. Eldred B. Lesniewski, associate 
director of the Milwaukee Catholic Social 

Services, celebrated the Mass and spoke at 
the breakfast which followed. The Mass 
was said for the intention of Marjorie 
Schloegel (JOHN SCHLOEGEL '54). 
About 80 people were in attendance. On 
Feb. 4 the club's directors met to make 
plans for the remainder of the year. 
David L. Roemer '60 
NEW ORLEANS 
The ND basketball team came to New 
Orleans for the Sugar Bowl Basketball 

Tournament In the finals on Dec. 30, the 
Fighting Irish lost a close one in overtime 
to South Carolina. However, Austin Carr 
71 took home the tournament's "Most 
Valuable Player" award. 

Among those on hand to cheer the team 
on were: BILL DREUX '33, MIKE 
McADAMS '63, CLAY LeJEUNE '63, 

LES BOUDREAUX '62, BOB JOHNSTON 
'63, JOE DROLLA '63, JIM CARRIERE 
'62 and PAT BOOKER '62. 
The New Orleans club is planning a 
dinner for the latter part of February. 
Joe Drolla '63 
RHODE ISLAND AND 
SOUTHEASTERN MASS. 

The club's annual Christmas cocktail party 
and buffet were held Dec. 6, at the Officers' 
Club, NAS, Quonset Pt, R.I. Planned by 
President PETE SUTHERLAND (LCDR, 

USNR) and his lovely wife, Pat, the cock­
tail hour was followed by a roast beef 
dinner. 

Club Treasurer JIM CONLON '65 reports that with the reinstatement of S5 member­ship dues he and his wife, Anne, may yet get to Acapulco this winter. 
Recognition department: To alumni in the R.I. and S.E. Massachusetts area who have helped to achieve the excellent results in the SUMMA drive. This club has achieved, so far, well over 200 per cent of its assigned quota and, in this respect, holds the lead over all other alumni clubs. 
Bemie McMahon '65 

ROME Christmas brought over 50 ND-SMC sopho­mores-abroad to enjoy our eggnog open house following midnight Mass. We gath­ered again after PAUL VI's Mass for a reception with refreshments prior to march­ing across the piazza to the Scoglio Di Frisio Restaurant for a torn turkey Ameri­can Christmas dinner. 
Pre- and after-Christmas visitors were: Msgr. JOHN J. McGRATH, president, SMC; Superior General MOTHER M. OLIVETTE WHELEN CSC; JIM DRINANE '30; sister of JOHN '63 and PETER KANE '66; sister of PETER CLARK '64; friend of EMILY SCHOSS­BERGER, director of the ND Press; Rev. WILLIAM CRADDICK CSC; Bro. JOHN ZOFMANN CSC; JOHN YELLAND '30 and wife; TOM BOLAND '65; GREGORY STRICK '68; ANGUS TODD '68; JAMES NAGY '53 and wife; PAT 
DUDGEON '65; Bro. RAPHAEL WILSON, 
ND director of admissions. His mother 
came along also. 

ND hospitality: We are open weekdays 
from noon to 9:00 at Largo Brancacdo 82 
— near central rail-air terminal. Ring us at 730.002. 
Vince McAloon '34 
SAGINAW VALLEY 

They came, they saw and they were 
conquered. Saginaw Valley ND men, their 
wives and guests enthusiastically attended 
an evening Mass and dinner celebrating 
Universal Communion "Sunday" on Mon­
day, Dec. 8. The officers of the Saginaw 
Valley ND Club, with much hesitation, 
decided to drop the usual Sunday morning 
men's Communion breakfast and institute 
in its place an evening Mass and banquet 
to be attended by not only the men but 
also their wives and guests. Although there 
was much skepticism in the begiiming of 
the private Mass, the committee carried 
on. Bishop Francis Reh of the Saginaw 
diocese gave permission to fulfill our obli­
gation to attend Mass on the feast of 
Immaculate Conception at this private 
Mass. 

Rev. LEONARD TOUZOLO, of St Joseph's Parish, Bay City, Mich., cele­brated the Mass and led a dialogue homily at the appropriate time. Communion was given under both species, and when it was all over everyone present was hi^ly enthusiastic about this type of celebration of the Mass. Although it has undoubtedly been done in other communities, in this conservative valley such programs are ventured into with temerity. The success of this, however, will mean more meetings of this type and perhaps in the future we will have a 100 per cent turnout 
Ted P. Maniatis '62 

SAN DIEGO The ND-Georgia Tech game was viewed in luxury via TV by members of the San Diego club and their families from the Presidential Suite of the Catamaran Hotel at Mission Bay. CLEM O'NEILL, our past club president, arranged the affair, which drew such a crowd that the over­flow had to be channeled into adjoining rooms. 
Plans for an extremely active social sea­son have been made with a dance scheduled for January, a hockey game viewing for February and businessmen's lunches spaced inbetween. 
Nonmember alumni in the area are in­vited to contact the ND Club of San Diego at 224-2975 and well take it from there. 
Tony Maloney '43 

SPOKANE An evening Mass on Dec. 8 at Immaculate Heart Retreat House distinguished the club's observance of Universal Com­munion Day. As a special favor to the club, at the concelebrated Mass, all received Communion under both forms. 
Following the Mass, dinner was enjoyed at the retreat house. "The after dinner speaker was the club's ardently loyal Sr. MICHELLE HOLLAND '62. Sister is supervisor of the teaching members of her order and her talk on the sometimes confusing situations among religious was very informative and interesting, as was the discussion period which followed. 
Besides the speaker, the following mem­bers with wives and friends attended this unusual event despite the snow storm: DICK FAVARO '48; JOHN HESKETT 
•63, president; DICK ST. JOHN '56; HAROLD SHEERAN '50; and JOE WALSH '14. 

Plans are being made for the celebration of UND Night during the week of April 6. 
Joe Walsh '14 
VIRGINIA 

Club Treasurer JOE LANGE and his wife, 
Anna, are the proud parents of their 
fourth child, Paul, bom right before 

Christmas. The Langes now have three 
sons and a daughter. Former President 

JERRY OWINGS captured 24,000 votes 
in his bid for a seat at the Richmond-
Henrico House of Delegates, but finished 
out of the money. Jerry made a strong 
showing in his first try for public office. 
The Virginia club welcomes Cathy and 
TOM GLEASON to Richmond. Tom comes 
to us from Syracuse and is employed by 
Continental Can. Also, welcome to Dr. 
WILLIAM SWYERS and his wife, Betty, 
formerly of Athens, Ga. Dr. Swyers is a 
professor at Virginia Commonwealth U. 
The ND Club of Virginia was unanimous in its approval of the University's change of attitude toward bowl games. We hope the next bowl appearance won't be 45 years from now. The Irish won many doubters to their side with their fine per­formance in the Cotton Bowl — even Sports Illustrated! Bowl appearances like that can't help but win friends for our alma mater. 
Frank Carpin '62 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 

On Nov. 8, 1969, club members joined 
Catholic U. in honoring Father Hesburgh 
at a ceremony at the Sheraton-Park Hotel. 
The C.U. Cardinal Gibbons Award was 
presented to Father. 

At the club's November luncheon. Rep. Marvin Esch (R-Mich.), who serves on the House Committee on Education and Labor, treated a full house of club mem­bers to a very fine speech. 
The second Junior Village outing of the year was Dec. 6. The children, alumni and alumni wives had a great time. Some teenagers brought their guitars. Burger Chef generously supplied the buns and barbecue for the children. It was evident to the many club volunteer-helpers how these children appreciated the attention given them. 
About 25 club members traveled to Dallas to attend the Cotton Bowl game. The package excursion was arranged by Wel­come Aboard, a local travel agency. PETE CANNON was the moving force behind this idea. 
Jan. 13, 1970, was ND day. Robert A. Podesta, assistant secretary of commerce for economic development spoke (cour­tesy of JIM MARTEN) at the club luncheon, and a fellow named Ara Parseghian narrated a certain Cotton Bowl film that evening at a local hostel for the club and friends of ND. FRANK MCCARTHY and RAY RAEDY cohosted the latter event 
February and March will bring elections and a St Pat's party, always big events here. 
James A. Gammon '56 

ON RECORD 
ENGAGEMENTS Miss Roberta Manford to JOSEPH P. LEWIS '66. Miss Joan Elizabeth Alberts to MICHAEL CALLAHAN RUSH '66. Miss Nancy Ann Wolfe to JAMES GREYSON BALDWIN '67. Miss Ann Marie Geddes to DANIEL J. HOLLINGSWORTH '68. Miss Judith Ann Smereka to JOHN J. DURINGER '69. Miss Barbara Nolan to GILBERT WAYNE HOWARD '69. Miss Jo Ann Gtima to LOUIS A. MacKENZIE JR. '69. 
MARRIAGES Miss Dawn Gale to JOHN P. BURE 'S7, Aug. 23. Miss Judith Razny to EDWARD J. DWYER JR. '63, Dec. 21. Miss Franca Cunti to ROCCO R. TUTELA MD '64, Nov. 23. Miss Nancy L. Best to FRANK J. KARAZIM '6S, May 18, 1968. Miss Bonny Bryant to MIKE HANNIGAN JR. '66, Nov. 29. Miss Elizabeth Ann Long to GARRETT A. ISACCO '66, Nov. 29. 
Miss Nancy Ann Sheeran SMC to Army Lt. THOMAS J. CHOLIS JR. '67, Dec. 5. 
Miss Jean Marie Brechtl to FRANCIS MICHAEL WALSH '67, Oct 24. Miss Joan Kay Smith to PHILIP B. CARTER '68, Aug. 29. Miss Kathryn M. Romegialli to THOMAS E. GOUNDREY '68, June 21. Miss Karen Ann Johnson to THOMAS R GAVIN '69, Nov. 29. Miss Kathryn MakielsU to JOSEPH E. HANNAN JR. '69, June 14. 
Miss Janet Elizabethy Godersky to ANTHONY RICHARD INGRAFFEA '69, Nov. 29. 
Miss Kathleen Ann Surges to EDWARD R. KINLEY '69, Nov. 28. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. JAMES C. BRITT '53, a daughter, Kelly, Jan. 22. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES CORCORAN '54, a son, Daniel Patrick, Jan. 3. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES McCRUDDEN JR. '58, a daughter, Margaret Dorothy. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANZ P. SCHUER­MANN '59, a daughter, Kristen Ann, Dec. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. DONALD A. MODICA '64, twin daughters, Christina Marie and Regina Mary, Dec. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD J. YASHEW­SKI '64, a son, Richard James, Jan. II. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD J. LEON­HARDT '65, a girl, JuHa Mary, Dec. 22. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM D. McGUIRE '65, a daughter. Colleen, Jan. IS. Mr. and Mrs. FRED FRANCO JR. '68, a son, Anthony, Dec. 27. Mr. and Mrs. PETER C. SENECAL '69, a gill, Kimberly Ann, Aug. 22. 
SYMPATHY WILLIAM J. CARSON '41 on the death of his son, Chad, Dec. 31. 
CARL R. HEISER *43 on the death of his daughter, March 12, 1968, and the death of his wife, Oct 11, 1969. 
DANIEL J. PARISI '51 on the death of his father, Gerardo Parisi, Oct 23. 
JOHN A. SCHLOEGEL '54 on the 

death of his wife, Margaret, Dec. 22. 
MICHAEL H. KEARNS '60 on the 

death of his father, RAYMOND J. 
KEARNS '22, Dec. 20. 
DEATHS 
THOMAS V. HOLLAND '17, Oct 9. 
He is survived by his family, 17 S. nth, 
Kansas City, Kan. 66102. 
ALBERT M. "DUKE" HODLER LL.R 
'23, Dec. 5, of a stroke. Until his retire­
ment in 19i68, he was postmaster of 
Portland, Ore., and he had been a law 
partner of CHARLES B. FOLEY '22. He 
is survived by his widow, 2310 S.W. 17th 
St, Portland, Ore. 97201. 
WILLIAM L. VOSS JR. '23, Dec. 7. 

He is survived by his widow, 314 N. 
Hmothy Lane, Edgebrook Heists, 
McHeniy, III. 60050. 
JOHN L. DUFFY LL.B. '24, Sept 24. 
He is survived by his son, Roger, 220 
Bryant St., Dubuque, Iowa 52001. 
JULIUS J. DANCH LL.B. '25, Nov. 

16, 1968. He resided in Gary, Ind. 
BERNARD W. LEY '25, Dec. 6. He is survived by his widow, 482 Oriando Ave., Akron, Ohio 44320. 
URBAN GERHARD '26, Oct 14. He is survived by his family, 1332 S. 16th St, Milwaukee, Wis. 53204. 
JOHN A. ROTH "26, Nov. 14. He resided at 437 Lincoln Ave., Troy, Ohio 45373. 
ROBERT T. STRICKEL "28, Sept 25. He is survived by his widow, 4912 40th Place, Hyattsville, Md. 20781. 
JOSEPH H. MANLEY '30, May 8. He is survived by his widow, 2911 N. Starr, Tacoma, Wash. 98403. 
VERNON J. SLACK '30, Dec. 1. He is survived by his widow, 303 E. Napoleon Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46617. 
EMIL R. WALTER '30, May 17, 1968. He is survived by his widow, 1145 N. Lockwood, Chicago, HI. 60651. 
RAYMOND S. DISCO '31. He resided at 10048 Stratford St, Forest Hills, N.Y. 11375. 


Replacements sought 
JAMES L. MadNTYRE '31. SepL 14. 
He resided at Viqinia Lane, BiUati, 
Mont 59102. 
FRANK W. DONALTY '33. Nor. 24. 
He was aty compttcOet for Utica. He is 
snrriTed by his widow and dau^ter. 109 
Haiter Place, Utica. N.Y. 13512. Abo 
sunriving are three sons and a married 
daughter. 
ROBERT M. MOtiAHAS '34. 
HoKKoba. He was a newsman with the 
Intematioaal News Service and UPL 
He is survived by his widow. 2623 N. Van 
Dom St, Alexandria. Va. 
JOHN FRANCIS TOMKOWO) '35, Decenibcr. He was employed as a pnrdias­ing agent by the Otis Elevator Co. in Yonkers. He is survived by his widow and two duldien at 111 Staidey Ave., Yonkers. N.Y. 
JOHN A. PINDAR '40, Dec 23, in an auto accident He is survived by his widow and two sons, 345 Hillside Place, Sooth Orange. N J., and two dau^ters. 
Sr. M. BERNETTA McGONAGLE M.A. '41, St Mary of the Springs, Cdunibas, Ohio. 
Bro. JOSAPHAT CHMIELEWSKI CSC '48, Nov. 26. He was principal of Cardinal Mooney W^ Sdbodl since his return from the Uganda Missions in May. 
WILLIAM B. WELCH '48, Nov. 3. He is survived by his family. 5400 S.W. 80(h St. Miami. Fla. 33143. 
FRANK A. ZIMMER '49. of cancer. Oct 20. He was director of art and structural design of the Packaging Corp. of America at Rittman. Ohio.' He is survived by his widow, four daughters and two sons, 353 West St, Wadswortfa. Ohio. 
HUGH J. SWEENEY '53. Nov. 10. He is survived by his widow. 58 Norton Lane. Wapping, Conn. 06087. 
FRANK M. Ft».SON '56, Jan. 12. He was a recipient of the Lactate MedaL He died at die home of his dau^ter in Scats^le, N.Y. 
RAYMOND G. LUBANY '64. September. He is survived by his widow, 749 S. PhiOipa. South Bend, Ind. 46619. 
With John P. Thurin leaving the 

University April 1 to enter private busi­
ness and with Thomas J. Sullivan soon 
transferring to the development staff, 
Notre Dame is seeking their replace­
ments as director of publications and 
managing editor of the ALUMNUS 
and INSIGHT. 

Ideally, the men chosen for these two key communications posts will be ND alumni, perhaps 25-40 years old, with printed media experierue. The director of publications, in addition to serving as editor of the two magazines, oversees the production of approximately 200 programs, booklets, brochures, etc., annually. He must have considerable competence in writing and editing, photography and art, layout and design and typography and print production. He has a fidl-time staff of six, plus three student assistants. 
The maraging editor of the two nutgazines, who reports to the director of pubUcatiora, is responsible,first of all, for the editorial content, design arid layout of the ALUMNUS which is pro­duced seven times annually for a circulation of 46,000. He also develops and edits feature material for INSIGHT, a quarterly institutional magazine with a circulation of SSfiOO. In addition, he has certain respon^bilities in connection with the anntul reunion and other Alumid Assn. affairs. 
Salaries for the two posts will be competitive and commensurate with experience and the responsibilities in­volved. A brief description of each position is available on request. Letters of application, with resumes, dtould be forwarded to James E. Murphy, Assistant Vice-President of Public Relations and Development, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6. 
ALUMNi ASK 



A potpourri of response 
SUPEIHCIAL CONCERNS 

I read with a good deal of interest the letters in the "Alumni Ask" section of the December ALUMNUS dealing with the October Moratorium activities on campus. I am in disagreement with the majority of letter writers, those graduates of the "silent generation" who have become the "silent majority." Their concerns over the Moratorium and its implications are superficial, their retributive response is sad and a bit ludicrous. It may seem heresy to some, but a university community is its people: students, faculty and administrators. Its buildings, activities and, yes, traditions are only mean­ing^! in the context of how well they seem to the people of their community. A living and relevant institution cannot expect its com­munity to be subservient to the ways of the past in community governance or student life or football schedules or campus activities, just as the academic departments within a university cannot be subservient to scientific theory or engineering technology or humanistic interpre­tation of the '30s. Things change because the people dealing with them change. 
While I happen to be sympathetic and supportive of the October and November Moratorium activities, I believe the basic issue is not the stance we should take on the Vietnam issue, as vitally important as this certainly is, but on the scope and nature of a university education. 
Basic to a great university. Catholic or otherwise, is its ability to serve as a forum for the study and expression of political views which range the spectrum from anarchism to liberalism to conservatism. 
An atmosphere of intellectual freedom is essential in a society inclined to polarize itself around specific issues and exclude consider­ation of alternative viewpoints. Tolerance of this kind does not occur overnight and cannot be measured against any standards to determine an optimum point. 
Thomas L. Bonn '60 527 Main St Etna, N.Y. 13062 
HANG IN THRE 

The December issue of Ifce ALUM­
NUS is excellent, and the staff 

deserves high commendation for 
producing it 

The campus news reports and the expression of students views are most interesting and infoimative. I trust the staff will not be dissuaded from continuing these features by the dissident voices here and there among us. I think they are a minority. I like the way ND is going, and so does my grandson, who is a fresh­man there. 
Joseph M. Walsh '14 
West 707 Fifth Ave. 
Spokane, Wash. 99204 
AVE, WE'K HEK 

Yes, there is a great silent majority 
out here who think the ALUMNUS 
is really great I think the new for­
mat is terrific and I especially like 
the new spark in your editorials. 
Besides I'm an ND sports fan and I 
never miss that section. May God 
continue to bless the great job you're 
doing. 

With you, I'm amazed that the (negative) minority make most (negative) comments. Maybe that old adage is true—no news is good news with the majority. 
Sr. Virginia Canning BVM '67 
6317 N. Kenmore Ave. 
Chicago, HI. 60626 
CHANGE OF HEART 

In a recent letter, a Texas correspon­dent stated he was "no longer proud of the fact that I am an alumnus of ND," and that "financial probknis are probably develc^ing because the alumni are sick and tired of the philosophy up there at the University." 
May I say that I also have changed my opinion of ND, thou^ in the otfier direction. I was never very proud to be an alumnus, but recent events have greatly increased my pride. Bayard Rustin was named to the board of trustees. Father Hes­bur^'s activities on national com­mittees and local moratoriums confirm my belief that he is a truly great human. Active puisuanoe of minority group enrollment is another plus, and to tie it with the Cotton Bowl trip was a stroke of genhis. 
ALUMNUS correspondents have expressed horror and anger at draft card destruction during a Mass. Conversely, I have read similar expressions at the si^t of fourth degree Knigfats of Orfumbus with swords at Mass. However, bodi groups have disrespectful intent, and a modem Christian university should not assume rigidity where tolerance and relevance are required. ND shows signs of becoming a truly Christian university and, to me, that's what it's all about 
William P. DiUon '51 
831 W. Colfax 
South Bend, Ind. 46601 
POSSIUE LOG JAM 
I was extremely pleased with the 

many letters in your last issue from 
alumni who were sufficiently dis­
gusted with the Oct. 15 Morator­

ium and the new philosophy of the 
University to publically disavow any 
further association with it Thank God we are finally shaking off some of the dead wood. 
Vincent L. Bolduc '68 
13 Brookside Circle Wilbraham, Mass. 01095 
A CROWING TMNG 

Sleepless after a 4 a.m. phone call on the death of a friend's college senior son in an auto accident, I turned to the November ALUMNUS and read Jim Cooney's, "Is this what it's aU about?" 
Beautifully written, satisfying, it tells sensitively what ND University is. I thank him for doing it 
Only then did I read the "October 15, 1969," also so clearly and fairly presented. The growth in status of the ALUMNUS matches that of ND. 
Ben Garber '28 336 Cherry St Bedford Hills, N.Y. 10507 
STAND POSITIVE 

The adverse comments in the latest "Alumni Ask" concerning the Moratorium Mass were appalling. 
What more significant act could a Catholic university perform than hold a protest Mass against an unjust, inhumane and immoral war? 
To achieve greatness, ND must take a positive stand against the evils of the worid; surely this is of greater importance than performing in post­season football games. 
J.J. Gilbert M.D. '61 125 Franklin Rd. Norwell, Mass. 02061 
A SAO STATE 

I can easily sympathize with Mr. Fishbume's (Usmay over his son's dis­tress ccMiceming the Moratorium. If and when I have a son ^irtiom I consider "a truly outstanding boy in every way" who nonetheless demon­strates such stupidity, I too will "feel that it is a sad state of affairs indeed and outright sickening." 
Forrest A. Mainline '68 
630 Seventh St Buffalo, N.Y. 14213 
STUDENT SOraiST 
William Mitchell's article in the December issue is, unfortunately, typical of the arrant and arrogant sophistry of too many students today. 
These self-appointed moralists assume that they alone should decide that Dow Chemical and the CIA are wrong and eliminate, by force, other students' rights to seek employment with these organizations. 
Although I disagree with some of the other stands he has taken recently. Father Hesburgh is eminently right that the essence of any great univer­sity is the search for truth through knowledge. 
Thus, when certain members of the University community attempt to impose their views by force and restrict, thereby, the rights of others, the University administration has no choice but to exclude them from the community. 
C. T. Hellmuth '50 5454 Wisconsin Ave. Washington, D.C. 20015 
ANOTHER MEMUa 
I read your editorial in the December issue of the ALUMNUS, and want you to know I for one am a member of the great silent majority, and I think it is safe to say that 95 per cent of your readers are also. Perhaps it is because I have been getting back to the school from time to time and have seen at first hand that ND is not losing the character and traditions that were so meaningful to me when I was on campus. 
Paul Host '33 2025 S. 30th St La Crosse, Wis. 54601 
6ROWINC MS6UST 
It's Christmas eve, I stopped to read a couple of copies of ALUMNUS and ran across the articles and letters about the Moratorium. The articles were good, they sounded fair and I knew from reading what happened there. 
I read the letters and grew dis­gusted. Our alumni let me down. One man spoke of his son saying he couldn't decide whether to go to ND because of the march and I felt like saying "Keep the at home, under lock and key, and maybe hell remain as narrow as you raised him, but let him out anywhere and you are going to lose him." Don't these people see that they've lost a gen­eration? Don't they see what is going on around them? 
The medical school of Nmth­westem is in the middle of the city. There are about 550 students, half of whom are in the wards. We still had about 250 acting on Oct 15.1 bring this up remembering a letter bom an 
M.D. in one of your issues. He couldn't accept the concept of a black on the board. Guess Rustin was too radical for him. Funny, a lot of blacks almost look on him as an Uncle Tom. Don't guess that M.D. realized that there are blacks here. Perhaps he doesn't specialize in poverty medicine. 
How long was ND a Catholic university before it discovered Christianity? I felt that there was a chance for ND when I was there, I'm not sure but I still do. Hesburgh and his insane 15-minute rule wont help any, but I don't think the old-world approach will really stop anything. 
I wonder when people will see what's going on around there? How long will they continue to defend hypocrisy? Another alumnus, a good friend, went to Washington in November. He was pushed through a plate glass window by a crowd avoiding tear gas. He was then arrest­ed for illegal entry. It almost sounds comical until you hear that he was imprisoned for 20 hours without being allowed to make calls; he caught pneumonia because there was an inch of water in his cell. 
I've done some work at a clinic in Chicago. At one organizational meeting the pcrfice broke in, without a warrant, searched and insulted, and then left. We've heard reports that they've taken nonprescription medi­cation away from at least one of our low-income patients. Need I mention that the clinic is run by a "radical political organization"? You hear "the pigs murdered Fred Hampton" and you know you cannot believe the police reports. There's no need to leave a police state. The students and young alumni have already found you can live with it Our real problem is to keep as many of our friends as nonviolent as possible. 
This is the area that the insane letters from the old grads really hurt. They are doing an excellent job <d turning hope into hate. I guess Fve run on much longer than I intended. When I start thinking of the different things that man has been doing to our friends I have trouble stopping the race in my mind. I constantly fear the oooveisioa of my generatioa to ­viotence. Vm afraid thatit catmot be stopped. However I can still hope. 
Gordon C. Hunt Jr. '69 Chicago, ni. 
I'MHm You are comet—^I'm out here some­where. You are dmng a very good job of communicating. Idootthink ND has gone to pot, even thoo|}i you are correct in assuming that I dont agree with everything going on. 
You are correct in saying ttiat I worry about ND losing its diaiacter, but I wony only in a themetical sense. Fm not at all worried about it in the existential circumstances that hold. 
Please continue w(»king hard—^you are woridng for all of us, and your satisfaction will come from doing a good job, not, unfortunately, from hearing wmds of praise from us. 
Bro. Daniel E. Sharpe SM '52 
1201 W. Becher St Milwaukee, Wis. 53215 
TAKE A tOOK 
Tom Sullivan comfrfained in the December issue about the lack <rf positive response from the alumni on various matters. As a recent returnee from Vietnam, I could see iriiere many alumni would be disturbed about the 15 October 1969 ha^ening atND. 
However, I was on leave at the time in South Bend, (m the campus. I have also been back to ND several other times since I graduated in 1966. Far from being dismayed by one unfortunate incident, 1 am deliglited by the overall progress of the University. 
Other alumni comfriain about the students' dress, indeed the South Bend Tribune even had a feature on it in one of their Sunday jnjH^ements last fall. However, my overall impressioa of the ND students was that they were rather deaitcut Many had sideburns—^who doesn't—but only a few had shoulder length hair. 
I was able to talk to Father Riehle. dean of students, who is a friend of the family. He seemed pretty satisfied, overall. »id commented to me on the favorable influence the adding of giris had on the overall demeanor of the male students* behavim. 
I would therefore suggot that possibly some of the alumni who are very negative in their reaction to ND have not actually beat back to the campus. I think if they would go back they would find themseNcs pleasantly surprised by the vitality and beauty of the place. I feel the vast majority would thoroughly enjoy such a visit. 
Garrett A. Isacco '66 6808 Highview Terrace, Apt. 204 Hyattsville, Md. 20782 
KEEP IT UP 

I found Tom Sullivan's comments in the last issue of the ALUMNUS very prophetic. I know that my wife and I appreciate his efforts to present an honest and total picture of the University today. 
Although the entrenched establish­ment may get upset, please continue to tell it honestly. 
William C. Kane '59 2075 Colvin Blvd. Tonawanda, N.Y. 14150 
OUR HATTER 

Congratulations to William Mitchell ('71) on his "Looking Back" article published in the December, 1969 issue of ALUMNUS. If his idea of refrain­ing from assigning black hats and white hats was used in approaching national and international issues and incidents, perhaps we'd find the "other side" isn't the "impudent snobs," "damn niggers," or "wild-eyed an­archists" we thought, but individuals with "respectable" beliefs and feelings of their own. Too often, the news media's presentations are equated with absolute truth; hence, the common beliefs that the Chicago police are right, the Black Panthers are wrong, Julius Hoffman is a servant of Justice, and the Peace Movement is Un-American (whatever that means). Perhaps a critical, 
objective evaluation of what these individuals and groups are trying to do would reveal a far different picture than the media would like us to think. 
On the home front, if some of the hallowed academic, disciplinary, and social realities of ND were scrutinized in this objective light, perhaps they would follow the football bowl ban to the graveyard of archaic traditions. 
Kevin Kelly '69 216 Northlawn East Lansing, Mich. 48823 
DIFFERENT VIEW 

I read your account of the ND participation during M-Day (October-November, 1969, ALUMNUS) with much interest and some concern. You see, I am one of those ND graduates who is now serving in Vietnam, have managed to survive so far and now more than ever before believe in the program to Vietnamize the war. 
Why? Because I've been here for 10 months, worked with the Viet­namese, and so I think with the proper training, guidance and given a reason­able period of time, they will soon be equal to the task of defending their own nation and we can begin an orderly withdrawal. Peiliaps when they have achieved military parity with the opposition, peace. Oriental style, may come to Southeast Asia. 
Looking at the faces of the ND/SMC students and others marching down the main quad in that photograph, I can appreciate their concern for what they call the mass killing in Vietnam. I can appreciate their concern for the alleged immoral­ity of this war and the need to separate ourselves from it as soon as possible. But most of all, I can appreciate that the American people are weary of a war that has dragged on for several years costing us dearly in lives and money. 
The students, faculty and others were participating in a meaningful and sensible movement. But probably the vast majority of them have never been to Vietnam and cannot fully comprehend the politico-military implications of the war, the opposing groups, the geographical area, etc. They seek to expedite our disengage­ment, apparently at any cost. But that cannot be done now. Whether the massive intervention in 1965 was justified no longer matters now. We have discovered an honorable way out of here short of wholesale capitulation and we are committed to it. 
Those students who burned their draft cards are avoiding, rather than facing, the problem. If they want American troops to leave Southeast Asia, as I do, then I invite them to join the service or an appropriate civilian agency, come to Vietnam, fully understand the problem and help us get out as soon and as honorably as possible. 
Some of the protesters, no doubt, don't care how we leave Vietnam, so long as we leave now. I submit that if we withdraw under conditions other than honorable, the national spirit will suffer immeasurably, the impact of which may not be felt for years. America should not leave Vietnam any other way; such would be tantamount to surrender. 
It's peace, baby, I agree, but not at any price. 
Terence P. Mahony '66 Lt. JG, USNR Comnavforv. Box F FPO San Francisco 96626 
CONGRATS BI U 

I wish to commend William Mitchell on his sensitive analysis of the November Dow-CIA demonstration and the resulting suspension of 10 ND students; and I wish to recom­mend that it be read and reread as thoughtfully as it was written. It is perhaps unfortunate that the situation requires an undergraduate theology major to remind a professedly Cath­olic university that it would do well to attend to the beam jammed through its own eye before ritualistically purifying the eyes of those who at least have eyes to see and are seeing. Cleanliness is at best next to, not equivalent to, godliness. It was of such students and of such a university that Professor Langdon Gilkey of the Divinity School of the U. of Chicago recently said: "Rational objectivity and spiritual disengagement are for 
these students not modes of disengage­ment from the world for the sake of selfless research; rather are they a rationalization for not disturbing our middle class nationalism, complacency and greed." 
Regrettably, William Mitchell is representative of very little that ND is and espouses. So much the worse, I fear, for ND. Martin Luther once rebuked the bands of German peasants with the comments that Christians are not so numerous as to form crowds. Much less universities. I am dis­heartened by this most recent re­minder of ND's hardened incapacity for serious, soulful reflection, dis­cussion and action, to say nothing of Christian commitment. Fear of God (once the beginning of wisdom), examination of conscience (once a daily exercise), and repentance (once the challenge of prophets) are apparently already passe in a swinging university intoxicated with the heady draughts of imagined excellence. I would suggest that the claims of our rhetoric not outstrip the depth of our commitments, lest it be said of us as it was of the scribes and Pharisees: "Continue to observe what they tell you, but do not imitate their actions, for they tell you one thing and do another." (Matthew 23.3) Robert E. Meagher '66 Dept. of Theology Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
GOODBY FATHER 
Please remove my name from the mailing list of the ALUMNUS magazine. 
I have just belatedly read the Octover-November issue of the ALUMNUS, and am quite sick at heart over the publication of the story of the "Moratorium Day Mass." That such a prostitution of the Mass, which we hold most holy, could happen on the campus of Our Lady is as tragic as the profanation of her cathedral in Paris centuries ago; but that it should be publicized and thereby practically approved, seems totally inexcusable. 

I submit that the sacrilegious participation in the offering of the sacrifice of the Mass by one (and who knows if there might have been others, too) who had formally renounced his faith, is a far worse crime in the eyes of God and of God-fearing men, than the mere bodily death of 500,000 soldiers and civilians. This is not to condone the latter, but only to point out the enormity of the former. 
I am grateful for and proud of the solid Roman Catholic training that we received at ND in years gone by, but from the reports and articles that we receive in the ALUMNUS, and other sources, I am ashamed now to acknowledge being an alumnus. When I come across a young man who see-ns a likely candidate for higher studies and leadership in a Catholic univer­sity, I cannot recommend him to Our Lady's university, because I would consider it dangerous for his faith!! Can you imagine?? 
I realize as editor, you are not responsible for the total situation at ND. But I have a feeling that you will be hearing increasingly from a so far "silent majority" of disappointed alumni, who feel that they can no longer be loyal to a University which tolerates, and educates by permissive­ness in, a philosophy so contrary to the Catholic faith and morals, which alone should be its raisott d'etre. 
Mine may be a lone voice in the wilderness. Then again, it may be one of those voices in the vanguard of many, many alumni who will speak out more strongly to administration, faculty and student body, than do the dissenters, the rebels, the scoffers, the deriders of authority both ecclesias­tical and civil, those with itching ears who pile up teachers to suit their own pleasures. 
Rev. Charles J. Minck, PIME '54 Maryglade Seminary Memphis, Mich. 48041 
GOOD BALANCE 
As a principal of a Catholic high school which sends students to ND. I would like to say a word about the present state of the University from my viewpoint. 
In my judgment. Father Hesburgh and the University in general have done a wonderful job of balancing new features of university life with valid older traditions. It seems to me that much of the criticism from alumni indicates a narrow-mindedness that is not a credit to their alma mater. As a matter of fact, this limited appreciation of what a uni­versity should be seems to be a good reason for changing the University so that future alumni will have a broader and deeper vision of the world and education than many of the present alumni presently have. 
It is, of course, inevitable that 

there will be much disagreement, 
confusion and emotional upset over 
changes in the University. The other 
alternative to change and the con­
sequent unrest is a university with an 
in-built death sentence for itself. 
Please keep up the good work and 
report back to the alumni as it really 
is on the campus. 
Rev. David F. Monahan M.A. '63 
Bishop McGuinness High School 
Oklahoma City, Okla. 73118 
ANOTHER PLUS 
I thought I would write and tell you how happy I am to have received my first ALUMNUS, the October-November issue. It certainly did offer a "full, rich menu." 
The Art Gallery was always a favorite place of mine, so the article, "A Corner in O'Shaughnessy," was of special interest. My brother and I enjoyed the Eric de Kolb collection there last summer very much. 
Moratorium Day activities were certainly newsworthy. I would like to have been around to witness and to participate in the actions and reactions of the "family." Mr. Cooney's reflections on this day were thought provoking, too. Yes, a Catholic university must be about many things in these times. 
I watched the progress of the new residence halls this summer. It was good to read about the dedication of Flanner Hall in November. May ND always keep on the rise! 
So, thank you for giving all alumni members another fine communication on ND activities on and off campus. With all the others I share a constant interest in this great University. Being a part of its family is one of the greatest things that has happened to me in my lifetime. 
Sr. Catherine Marie Monks '69 508 S. Third St. De Soto, Mo. 63020 
1HE SHUT HAS MOVBI 
Never thought, until I read your piece on the inside cover of the December, 1969 ALUMNUS, that you, like the rest of us, need encouragement once in a while. It takes a little longer for the spirit to move some of us than it does others. Maintain the honesty and high quality of your product and wait for more of us to come alive. You and the staff are doing a great and very worthwhile job. 
This is only the second year (but in 
a row, mind you) that my alumni 
dues will be paid. 
Sincere wishes that ND always has 
people just like you with a strong 
hand in her affairs. 
James A. Ganunon '56 
2011 EyeSt. NW 
Washington, D.C. 20006 
COONEY SCOKS 

When I finished my reading of Jim Cooney's article, "Is this what it's all about?" in the November number of the ALUMNUS which I received today, my eyes were wet. That is something that doesn't happen often, even when I'm reading great poetry. I was moved by the range and the depth of his reflection and by its unmistakable sincerity and charity, as I was also by its quiet tone and total freedom from pretentiousness and dogmatism. I thank him for it! 
John T. Frederick ND English Faculty-Ret. 
Route 4, Box 214 
Iowa City, Iowa 52240 
MI0IHE-A6E NOPOUT 
After reading Jim Cooney's article (Is this what it's all about? ALUMNUS, October-November. 1969) and the various alumni reactions, we feel obliged to offer a different sort of alumni response. The article was both perceptive and sensitive. More than this it captured the tragic, idealistic "tone" of being young in an America with mixed-up national and moral priorities. 
It is unfortunate that the thought­fully Christian response to the Mor­atorium proceedings was not a typical reaction among ND alumni. The "disillusioned" alumni correspondents in the December issue of ALUMNUS wish to impose their own myopic, narrow-minded philosophy upon the University. And, if their views are not accepted by the University, then they threaten economic and social reprisals. If this repulsive money-dangling has no effect, then sotas alumni choose to opt out. Might 
this be called middle-age dropout? 
It seems paradoxical that some 
alumni are so hasty in their with­

drawal from association with the ND 
community, while at the same time 
they accuse the nation's youth of 

dropping out of middle-class society. 
We wonder whether a community 

must consist of only those who look, 
think and speak alike. 

This brings us to a general question: Why are some members of the ND community so afraid of the expression of all points of view? Are they afraid that relevance and truth may be found in other philosophies than their own?? 
Brian McMahon '68 
230 E. 75th St, Apt 5A 
New York, N.Y. 10021 
William Dunfey '68 
Parker House 
Boston, Mass. 02107 
COUNT HIM OUT 

This is just a note to let you know that maybe there is no such thing as a "great silent majority" that agrees with the way things are progressing at ND. Please count me as part of the loud minority which feels that our school is rapidly becoming an institu­tion that no longer deserves our financial support. Time will tell, but I feel this is a majority viewpoint 
Tom Adams '56 
4 Salem Place 
Terre Haute, Ind. 47803 
KUDOS 

Congratulations to you for a "job well done," the "Cotton Bowl Classic"! You have been doing a fine piece of work; that you have received negative criticism indicates that the alumni do read the publication from their cherished alma mater! 
As a high school teacher, I follow very eagerly articles regarding our young people. Keep up your good work. There is so much good in our youth, that were it published, it would far outweigh those fewer who revel in the bizarre. 
Sr. Mary Agnese Boehm SND 
120 N. Clover St 
Fremont Ohio 43420 
THE LAST LAUGH 

This letter concerns Mr. Sullivan's response, as managing editor, to the almost universal condemnation by the alumni of the Moratorium demon­stration at ND. His column seems 
to take the tone of a "say it isn't so" 
reaction, and this tone stoikingjy 
parallels the reaction of the an­
nouncers on television to their critics. 
In both cases, Mr. SuUivan, the alent 
majority is silent no longer, and to 
expect it yet to approve of what is 
being done would not be a realistic 
view. 

On your point of communicating with the alumni, it may be a question of too much media rather than too little, and what remains unanswered for many of us, in spite of communi­cations, is why the alumni should grow fond of rebukes by 19-year-olds on campus. On the matter of de­veloping leaders for the future, the only student leaders we can read of are those who know more of South­east Asian policy than five American presidents. Concerning the priests who encourage the protesters, they may style themselves as a modem-day Christ but they also resemble a modem-day Father Cou^din. 
On the question of supporting the school administration in its policy upheavals to make all things relevant the objection is not to change but the objection is to what constitutes progress. That the student should study Playboy in place of the Iliad would probably make the curriculum relevant but not many would call it progress. 
Still, the last laugh is probably on the alumni. Put into an absurd po­sition are those of us who, over the years, have supported all the Chal­lenge and SUMMA fund drives only to find ourselves now in bottom dis­agreement with the direction the University has taken. 
Paul Berry '54 P.O. Box 6655 Columbus, Ohio 43209 
EKNESrS RIEND 

In reply to your article "I know you're there," Ernest Hemingway must have had you in mind in liie 
Millennium of the Untalented— "Writers Who Can't Write." 
Louis F. Fautsch '35 815 Roshek Bldg. Dubuque, Iowa 52001 
A FADING ILK? 

The greatest testament to the necessity of opening ND to the 20th century (at last the awareness that the middle ages have passed!) and justification for the evident growing liberalization of the University must lie in a rec­ognition of the incredibly parochial, tradition-bound mentality reflected in the alumni letters published in each 
issue of ALUMNUS. 

To the extent the character of the 
University shall be predicated on 
satisfying these provincials, one can 
see little reason for the continuance 
of the school. To the extent these 
pathetic souls, produced in such 
appalling abundance at ND over the 
years, are outraged by the progress 
in developing a contemporary, quality 
university, one can look to the future 
of the school with great hope. More 
of their ilk we don't need. 

But I must say the letters are 
amusing. Sort of Al Capp in prose. 
Raymond K. O'Hara '62 
78 Prospect Park West 
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11215 
OUT OF THIS WOnO 
Perusal of the letters to the 

ALUMNUS from my fellow alumni 
seems to indicate that many of them 
may be of this world but surely that 
they are not in it 

How else explain their demon­strated ignorance of the deterioration of civility and the subsequent in­justices that characterize our socio­economic order? Their complacency in the face of the resounding pleas for social and distributive justice from the ghettoes and the campuses tmly frightens us who are concemed, for we fear that this deliberate unaware­ness on the part of so many will but exacerbate current unrest to a point of no retum. 
It is quite evident also that the education of these thunderers ceased when it should have commenced. 
WilUam G. OTHare Jr. '40 
Salem State College 
Salem, Mass. 01923 
TAKE IT AWAY 

I don't want my name taken off your mailing list, but I would appreciate your ripping out the "Alumni Ask" section before sending me my copy. 
John A. Sieger '64 
1713 Maplewood Dr. Prospect Heights, III. 60070 
SINCEK APrtOACH 

I felt I should write something in support of Jim Cooney's article in the ALUMNUS, which seems to be the center of some adverse criticism. 
I think the sincerity with which he articulated the situation was great. It seems that too many of our fellow alumni would prefer to be restricted to a rah-rah, highly stmctured relationship with ND, which they expect to represent some reactionary Utopia. They seem to have no con­cept of what the relationship of the university to 20th-century society should be, in fact, the impression I receive from reading many of the critics' letters is that they are shame­fully unaware of some of the basic problems facing our society. 
Maybe that sounds too much like and SDSer, but it seems that many of our alumni are quite unaware of what is going on outside of their own narrow little worlds, and when some­thing arises to challenge them, they prefer to attack the challenger rather than weigh the merits of the chal­lenge. Cooney's article impressed me as an attempt on his part to honestly weigh the merits of a cause with which he didn't closely identify, but which he wanted to objectively ap­proach. It is this attitude which will make ND great. A petty, chauvinistic, close-minded approach to anything appeals only to the inferior or in­secure, not the great. Don Snyder '66 11 Cushman Rd. Brighton, Mass. 02135 
FOIMER HJMER 
I must admit that several times articles in the ALUMNUS have caused me to fume, but that is the nature of our whole social, business and religious structure as it pertains to those of us who are in our late 40s and SOs. I think you are doing a good job and should be supported rather than deserted, offered intel­ligent comments rather than be the subject of violent negative appraisal at the local pub or in our metropolitan papers. The ALUMNUS will always be interesting to me when it reprints news of ND alumni, students, faculty and clubs. 
Mr. Rustin's article was great and Dick Conklin's report of our faculty presented well-deserved comments about many fine men. 
My objection to the article, "Rule invoked," in the December issue, stemmed from the amount of space assigned negative reactions where the article also reported overwhelming support of Fr. Riehle's action. Briefly, 23 lines set forth the favorable side and 22 lines plus two columns ("Lo(*ing back," by W. J. Mitchell '71) emphasized the minority and negative point of view. Let's get a more equal balance in the future. 
Keep up the good work. We need this fine publication. Keep my name on the mailing list. James V. Donoghue '40 47 N. Parte Rd. La Grange, Ul. 60525 OlD-TIMErS VIEW The letter from "young" graduates of classes from 1941 to 1962 in the December issue of the ALUMNUS reacting to Moratorium Day at ND and the Bayard Rustin appointment as a member of the board of trustees were read by me with concern and interest. Possibly the views of an "old-timer" who has returned after many years to college teaching would be of interest to you and your readers. 
My fellow alumni who emphasize tradition or who object to the stu­dents of today for being different from us when we were in college possibly fail to realize how little the universities of today resemble those which we attended years ago. The university, as an intellectual com­munity, is very much involved in the problems of society and must be an important force in bringing about constructive institutional change. 
The activist type of students, which is referred to in letters in the December ALUMNUS as "idiots," "bearded kooks" and "weird stupes," recognize that they have respon­sibilities as members of the academic community for contributing to the improvement of our social, political and economic institutions. Although we may not always agree entirely with the methods of student activists, we must recognize their dedication and respect their conscientious efforts to assist in resolving problems which are very close to them and to us. I would be very concerned if a univer­sity community did not have a group of thoughtful and constructive activists among the student body or if a university president did not encourage nonviolent visible student activists. 
Social involvement of the univer­sity today means a concern for the racial crisis and a special conmiitment to the effective education of dis­advantaged students. I know of no one who is better qualified than Bayard Rustin to assist, as a member of the ND Board of Trustees, in chartering the course of the uni­versity in fulfilling its commitments to community responsibility in areas involving racial matters. 
The reference to the crucifixion of Christ "by the Jews" in an appeal to tradition in one of the letters fails to consider the statement of Vatican II on this matter. The ALUMNUS containing this letter was received the same day it was announced that the Vatican was issuing the most progressive and theologically sophis­ticated statement on Judaism by any majfx Christian bixfy in recent tinm. Let us hope that the ND Institute for Advanced Religious Studies, to which my classmate, Howard Fhalin, contributed so generously, will assist in bridging the gap that apparently still exists in Jewish-Christian relatioiis despite the statements of Vatican II. 
Keep up the good woric which is being done to assist in making ND a great educational institution. Louis F. Buckley '28 641S N. Sheridan Rd. Chicago, HI. 60626 
DONT K lOWLY 
Tom Sullivan sounded so down in the December issue that I thou^t I would wish him a blessed Christmas and a happy, newsy new year. 
I think the staff is doing a good job but I think the day of the "Cath­olic" university is over and I hope you at ND can make the change. 
If you expect approbation from our alumni on much but a good football team and the Baltimore catechism you must me out ot your skull. Most of them are a disgrace in their social attitudes and lack of Christianity. (How does that grab you for a lack of Christianity?) I suppose one reason liberals don't do too well is we are so bloody righteous. 
Anyhow, congratulations on getting Rustin on the board but give him an antienMtic before be talks to any large alunuii group. I am sure he is too smart to become a "house Jew" 
— you know, the one Jewish member kept by most L.I. country chibs, generally married to a gentile and often with children in a parochial school. 
I suspect that a lot of the very recent classes may be more to Mr. Rustin's and my l&ing. I know my godson was in the class last June and he is O.K., but IVe been pounding him since he was horn to counteract his father's influence. The father is Class of '30 and strictly an economic Bourbon. 
Don't be lonely. There are a lot of us that love you. We just dont want to cause you pain by asking to be published and causing a cataclysm which might knock you out Dan J. Bradley '28 HI Bayview Ave. Amityville, N.Y. 11701 
ra Foi nmoMc It seems a shame that Bayard Rustin has been duped into believing that the money-power-oriented buaness­men, who feed him so well for his compromising riietoric, will influence the necessary changes needed to bring about true equality for all. How can any of those beautiful things, (that Bayard says should take place within our institutions to bring about an equality of existence for the black man), actually materialize when the pivotal institutions in the United States are money and power — when in effect these are directly controlled by an elite group that seems insen­sitive to fashioning any real type of social change if it means altering the day-to-day operation of the complex money-making machine. 
Judging from the current events making history, the stick-wielding power structure has demonstrated that and form of dissent will be dealt with accordingly. Any group protest­ing the institutional racism existing in our society will be suppressed, if not exterminated, so as not to pose a threat to the insulated, secure citizenry. 
Can we really trust the dominant culture to implement the changes in our institutions that could system­atically secure a position of com­fort for those totally alienated from the mainstream of American life? I'm in doubt. 
David C. Schoenecker '65 

1919 N. Cambridge Ave., Apt. 208 Milwaukee, Wis. 53202 
NAIVE PEOPLE I Started to write you folks after Jim Cooney's Moratorium article in the November ALUMNUS. Frankly, I was too upset and disheartened to be rational. 
The "I know you're there" bit in the December issue demonstrates how naive Tom Sullivan and Cooney really are. If they'd take the alumni's pulse in our area, they'd find that we aren't here, and we aren't too sure we understand what ND really stands for. It may well be that the "great silent majority" they implore might tell them they disagree with the way things are "progressing" at ND. 
If most of the alumni reaction was negative, this may contain a mes­sage. Apparently Sullivan and Cooney, and not the alumni, are the ones not getting the message. Maybe they should ask themselves a few questions. Is there something to be said for character and tradition? Could it be that those who "love, believe in and are dedicated to ND and what it stands for" got that way during a period of character and tra­dition? Is violating the law more relevant and meaningful than basic ideals of loyalty, patriotism, discipline and respect for authority? If so, I 
I wasted four years at ND. 
Robert J. Pleus Jr. '57 
369 N. Orange Ave. 
Oriando, Fla. 32801 

HE'S SICK Regarding Jim Cooney''s article in the ND ALUMNUS October-November, 1969,1 could not believe it when I read the magazine and saw the dis­gusting picture of the seven members of the ND community oflFering (burning) their draft cards at Mass. 
Mr. Cooney states that he is wor­ried because he has "No pat answer for what has happened at ND." Did he ever consider lack of dis­cipline and respect for authority as an answer? 
Of one thing I am certain. The offertory is not an appropriate vehicle for treason .. . It makes me sick — "the tears in their eyes when they finished burning their draft cards" — what about the tears in the eyes of the parents and loved ones of those who have given their lives? 
He must know that the Student Mobilization Committee is not one of sincere protest against presumed inadequacies in our Vietnam policies. Rather it is one of blatant com­munist manipulation, exploitation and subversion. "Despite participation . . . by sincere pacifists and others con­cerned with our foreign policies, the dominant presence is cleariy a Com­munist one." ("Congressional Rec­ord," Nov. 4, 1969) 
I thought that when Father Hes-burgh made public his position on student demonstrations that here again ND had upheld the basic principles of discipline and authority. Times may change but the value of these fundamental basic principles does not change. Frankly, I am terribly dis­appointed in ND and Father Hesburgh for permitting this sort of thing to be held at ND. 
I am attaching a copy of the cover taken from the March, 1969, ALUMNUS which says "Somewhere a stand must be made." 
You tell me, Mr. Cooney, "What is a Catholic university all about?" If it is for permitting the activities such as took place on the ND campus Oct. 15, 1969, then count me out. 
There are a great many ND graduates like me. Call us squares or establishment or whatever you like. We shave, bathe and get haircuts. We work, own homes, pay taxes and raise children who don't smoke goofweed. We're against war, too. Many of us fought in one, some two or three, and perhaps we know more about war than those fuzz-faced kids who are so volubly authoritative about it. 
We've had it up to here, too, and youll hear more from us. That is not an ultimatum; it's a fairly safe prediction. 
SOMEWHERE A STAND MUST 
BE MADE. 
Robert L. Rotchford Jr. '49 
West 929 Sprague Ave. 
Spokane, Wash. 99204 

TEMPEIEO FEEUN6S Jim Cooney's article in the Oct-Nov issue of ALUMNUS was magnificent. Although I do not consider myself a member of the "Old Guard" alumni, I was pretty much incensed when I read the report on the moratorium antics at ND. However, my feelings were tempered signif­icantly when I read his beautiful article. Congratulations. William A. Whiteside Jr. '51 1401 Walnut St. Philadelphia, Pa. 19102 
WHAT CHOICE? 

While researching an article for an ND school publication last year, I learned that a majority of ND alumni have graduated from the school since 1950. In addition, there is a greater diversity in the occupations chosen by these men, with an increasing number of college professors joining the ranks of the middle-level corpo­ration executives thought to comprise the bulk of alums. 
With these facts in mind, I would object to the list of candidates, the "choice" given us in the 1970 alumni board elections. Only two of the candidates are post-1950 products of the University, and not a single man running has graduated from the University in the last 15 years. Half the men in the "race" are individuals who graduated from ND at least 30 years ago. Of the 10 candidates, five are businessmen, four lawyers and one a doctor. . . . 
There seems to be an endless sameness about the candidates ex­tending all the way down to the degree of recession of their hairlines. The Alumni Assn. tells us that they have wives, are members of the K of C and veterans. However, absolutely nothing is said about the ideas of these men. We leam nothing of their feelings towards the University. No statements from them are presented. With such men I would expect rather unexciting reading, but nevertheless the alumni seem to be deserving of something better than a blind choice between two businessmen, one who graduated in 1938 and the other in 1939. In order to see the alumni relevant, I for one would like to learn how candidates think, and for that matter which ones don't. 
Thus I am not voting because there is no choice. The proposed candi­dates were screened and 10 sterile nominees produced. Or at least they seem sterile, although of course we have no way of knowing from the ballot information whether we are voting for Huey Long or John F. Kennedy. Perhaps there is a "ND Alumni Assn.: Love It or Leave It" philosophy behind all of this, but I for one would like association elec­tions from now on to perhaps follow an American as opposed to an East German model. Joel R. Connelly '69 3354 E. Laurelhurst NE Seattie, Wash. 98105 
GOD HELP US 
Quote from Tom Sullivan, managing editor: "Leading off the University section is a story on a most news­worthy event. Moratorium Day at ND. It was a significant occurrence across the country and it had a meaningful impact on the community here. As Father Hesburgh remarked, Tt was one of the most moving and dramatic events ever to take place at the University.' Student writer Bill Mitchell does an admirable job of covering the succession of events from start to finish." May I add an "Amen" or periiaps "May God Help Us." 
It is certainly ironic that the feature cover story of this ALUMNUS issue is "The Law at ND." This of course referred to the Law School, not the University's observance of the law. When one reads Bill Mitchell's ac­count of civil disobedience (i.e., breaking the law) and Mr. Jim Cooney's dissertation of federal law violation, one can only wonder and ask, "What does the law mean at ND?" I might suggest that Jim Cooney drop over to the ND Law School and explain to the dean his paragraph on "his hang-up on the violation of federal law." After Jim leaves this session, he should then visit the philosophy department and take a reftesher course in basic logic. 
The Mass conducted on the campus to help "celebrate" this violation of the law is sickening to read and worse to ponder upon when one treasures 
the words "Notre Dame." What an 
exemplary group the concelebrants 
were — Brother Darst of the Catons­
ville 9, Cullen of the Milwaukee 14, 
Dellinger, now on trial on conspiracy 
charges. These men are a great ex­
ample to students who seem to have 
become so smart so soon in their 
young lives. Please be advised that I 
am one of the "outraged" and not one 
with a "feeling that it was very 
religious." 
In conclusion, I must admit a dreadful feeling of despondency and regret on what has happened and what is happening to "my ND." These feelings were triggered by the dis­graceful pornography seminar of the past year (you should hear the true story behind this seminar) and now the latest issue of the ALUMNUS. 
To use the expression so popular with our youth today, "In conscience I cannot accept what is allowed to go on at ND today. Therefore until I see changes I cannot participate in any of her activities." Gerald F. Saegert '40 1111 Park Ave. New York, N.Y. 10028 
INQUISITION PAST 
In answer to the letter of my dis­tinguished class secretary, George J. Keenan '48,1 offer the mild and difiident suggestion that I prefer Bayard Rustin, chain gang and all, to the late J. Hugh O'Donnell CSC, who was warden of ND in my time. 
At least the present polemics at ND are now possible, which were not so in 1946 when ND greatly re­sembled an Inquisition jail under the charge and keeping of some peculiarly repulsive clerics, whom charity fm'­bids me to name further. 
As a local participant in a some­what less dramatic Moratorium in October, I congratulate Father Hes-burgh for his part in ND's. Whether Nixon and his ineffable Agnew want to admit it or not, at least part of the message is getting through. The kids are sick of lies and showing it Fm also amused at how old the '48ers have gotten. Joe Wilcox '48 911 N.Eaton St. Albion, Mich. 49224 
RESPONSE TO A PlEA This letter is in response to Tom Sullivan's plea for the silent majority to make known their feelings about current events at ND. His assumption is correct that most alumni agree generally with the administration of the University. If they did not, the "negative" reactioii, as he chose to 
call alamni critidsni, would have 
been much greater. 
Most alumni are unlikely to write letters of approval unless the admin­istratioa has taken some unusual action which captures nationwide attention, such as Father Hesburgh's firm stand on student demonstrations. It is to be expected that ahunni will write when thqr take issue with some action of the University or an article in the ALUMNUS. 
After reading the letters in the "Alumni Ask" section of the Decem­ber issue, I would not classify them as "negative" but rather as critical of current thinking prevalent amcmg some of the students and faculty. This criticism is justified in most instances and should be carefully con­sidered by the entire University com­munity. You are to be complimented for providing a section in the ALUMNUS where alumni can voice their opinions. 
I agree with those alumni protest­ing the Mwatorium events at ND, such as tearing of draft cards at the Offertory of the Mass. Such actions are out of place at any Mass. It is difficult f<M' alumni <A my generation to understand why the seven offenders were not disciplined by the adminis­tration. Also, why should the admin­istration tolerate tiie amount of pro­testing which has hampered recruiting by the CIA and Dow Chemical? 
I do not agree with those alumni who protest the appointment of Bayard Rustin to the board of trustees because such a board should include a cross section of our nation's tal­ented men. Nor do I agree with my classmates who ask for Father Hesburgji's reagnation, for 1 believe he has done an outstanding job in elevating the stature of the University. 
Yes, the stent majority do agree with most actions of the University. But we have the right to disagree without being labeled "negative" be­cause our views do not ccHiform to yours or the administratiim's. May our disagreements be productive of changes lix the betterment of ND. Most alumni, like most studmts, are dedicated to her welfare. May reason and loyalty overcome the bad example of those radical few who are not 
Best wishes for continued success as vBaHtx ot an interesting and in­formative magazine for Our Lady's ahimnL 
Robert J. Nickodem '51 632 Greendale Rd. Saieboygan, Wa. 53081 
r''-^<^¥i^:^@«».^ 

'^;^i^^^ 
•.-••'" >• .«>' ^^^ 
,^-:t'^>.>.;>-. 
s^;.l;-­

Jack Frost leaves his mark? 



