The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

ALUMNUS 
^lalue of cfalher oowara Sorm, as. a, lounger, TJniverulu of CALolre fQ"^^ 
Last Year's Record Total oi 7.887 is 1.800 Bahind: tixttcf Gonw of 1947 Was Spediic Incentive; City Committees and Club Presidents Urged to Organize Follow-Up 
Programs to Beach 1948 Goal of lOMO GiTers 
The Army Game of 1947 was one of those classics on which many historical events are based. 
We are immediately concerned with its obvious effects in 1947 on the early and record-brealcing giving of some 2,000 more alumni than had given in 1946. 
But we still feel that the current sub­stantial deficit of some 1,800 alumni givers —as against last year's record at the same date—reflects only the timing incentive of the Army Game. We are reluctant to ac­cept the alternative thesis that some 2,000 alumni gave to Notre Dame last year only because of the Army Game 
Actually, there should be no essential re­lation between a football game and a gift to Notre Dame by an alumnus. The pres­ent guarantee and advance sale is guided by (a) courtesy to alumni who have indi­cated interest through the only tangible channel for measurement and (b) the ne­cessity for some limitation of ticket dis­tribution. 
Local Solicitaiion 

So, feeling that the lag in giving is one of convenience and the simple lack of a spur as effective as the Army Game of last year, the Foundation has asked the City Committees to work with the Local Clubs, where Clubs exist, to follow up the indivi­dual alumni, especially those who gave last year, so that we not only reach last year's record figure, but go on to the 10,000 alum­ni participants we aimed for when the 1948 program began. 
Sights Raised 

The amount of your gift is not empha­sized. It would not be fair to say that in the light of Notre Dame's pressing prob­lems it is unimportant. But the greatest contribution the alumni can make in 1948 is a declaration of faith in Notre Dame's future, by continuing and bettering the number of alumni giving tangible support. Actually, and most encouragingly, the total amount of money given so far in 1948 by alumni equals that given in 1947 at the same date. This is an obvious raising of the sights of the individual donor, and has been a source of outstanding encouragement to the University administration. 
So the job to be done is. not to worry about whether the gift you can afford to send now is $1 or $10 or $100 or $1,000, but to send what you can, now. 
Participation of the anticipated 10,000 donors, with the inevitable increase in amount if the present raising of sights per­
Table Indicative ol Potentials 

Space prohibits a more general presenta­tion of our picture, but from the accom­panying chart of 44 cities, containing some 70% of our total alumni, you can see how readily alimini response could close up the present gap to meet last year's total, and how. 
with the other 180 Chairmen Cities func­tioning with their Local Clubs cooperating, the 10,000 giver-goal for 1948 is not dream­ing but digging. 
Your individual response, without wait­ing for a solicitor, will make that task easier and the goal nearer and quicker. 
7948 Alumni Record ~-44 Key Chairman Clfles 
NUMBER ALUMNI  NUMBER IN '48  % IN  NUMBER TO GO  
Akron Baltimore Benton Harbor  77 48 48  35 20 19  45 42 29  42 28 28  i  
Buffalo  .  176  78  44  98*  
Charleston, W. Va.  25  13  52  12  
Chicago  .  1524  638  42  886*  
Cincinnati  108  55  51  53*  
Cleveland  299  115  39  184*  
Dallas  50  18  36  32  
Denver  78  36  46  42  
Des Moines  24  15  63  9  
Detroit  370  179  48  191*  
Elizabeth  59  14  24  45  
Elkhart  22  7  32  15  
Evansville  31  20  65  II  
Fort Wayne ..  136  82  60  54*  
Grand Rapids  85  28  33  57*  
Houston  :  41  17  41  24  
Indianapolis  ....  268  157  59  111*  
Kansas City  108  59  55  49  
Los  Angeles  ....  304  198  65  106*  
Louisville '....  102  49  48  53*  
Memphis  53  28  53  25  
Milwaukee  144  71  49  73*  
Newark, N. JNew OrleansNew York  201  30  1081  69 15 292  34 50 27  132* 15 789*  i  
Notre Dame  61  31  51  30  
Peoria  96  45  47  51*  
Philadelphia  _  :..  131  63  48  68*  
Pittsburgh  132  66  50  66*  
Portland  54  13  24  41  
Racine  20  11  55  9  
Rochester  146  57  39  89*  
Rockford  70  31  44  39  
St. Louis  221  134  60  87*  
St. Paul  48  15  31  23  
San Francisco  119  59  50  60*  
Seattle  28  12  43  16  
South Bend ....  734  370  50  364*  
Springfield, Mass. Tulsa  33 49  5 20  15 41  28 29  
Washington  172  75  44  97*  
TOTALS  7606  3334  44%  4261  

sists, would be a long step toward the ad­* There are 3669 non-contributors in these 21 larger dties. vance which Notre Dame knows is urgently 
If one-half of the 4261 non-contributors contributed yet this year we would exceed last year's total^ 
needed, but which is a difiScult decision in Just half of the Chicago, New^ York and South Bend non-contributors would bring in over 1000 alumni^ 
If we could figure on an average of from 5-10 alumni bom the other 180 chairmen cities, this would givt|j 
the'face of economic limitations. 
tis anotbeif 1000 contributors. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This jnagazjoe' is published bi-monthly by the University of IVotre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter Octo­ber I, 1939; at the PostotHce, No.rc Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council. 
James E. Aimstrong. '25. Editor; William B. Dooley, '26. Managing Editor 
Vol. 26 
(Most of the questions asked in the "Ninety-Nine Questions For the Class of '28" were suggested by members of the class them­selves. The questionnaire was sent out March 16, 1948, only to those who received a bach­elor's degree or the equivalent in June, 1928. One hundred twenty-five replies were re­ceived, alt before May 29 of this year. This articles gives answers to only a portion of the questions. Those selected are believed to be of particular interest to the general alum­
ni body. 
Bernard Garber, '28, made up the ques­tionnaire, mailed it out, compiled the infor­mation on the returns and wrote this article. The .'^LUM.vus here extends special thanks to him for his hard and effective work.—Ed.) 
When do Notre Dame men marr>-? How many of them marr>'? 
Twenty years after graduation the class of 1928 voluntarily answered 99 questions about themselves. They told their incomes, the number of their children, social habits, their views and cultural interests, what they thought of the University and their educa­tion. All this was in connection with their 20th class reunion. 
Here arc some of the ansivers. 
SEPTEMBEB-OCTOBEB, 1948 


The Garber Poll 
Men of '28 7e// All 
By BEBNARD A. GABTEB. '28 
Of 125 men replying, five are single and 120 married. 0[ the latter group one had remarried after his first wife's death, one was separated, three had been divorced and one of these had rewed. When did they marr>-? Two while in college, 22 within two years of graduation, 28 within five years, 20 in the sixth year, 20 within eight years, 9 within ten years, 10 within tivelve years, 7. 

Ko.5 

within fifteen years, and 4 within 19 yean of graduation. 
Of the married, numbering 120, a few liad no children and several had eight each. Al­together there were 326 children: 185 »ns and 141 daughters. Only 10 were deceased. 
"I would like my sons to go to Notre Dame," said 83 men who had sons; three said "no" while seven said it depended on other conditions. One with three sons was not sure about sending them to ND; "I feel ND raised me with a severe inferiority com­plex." 
On the question "Do you consider now that your iiutruction on marriage while at 
N. D. was satisfactory, poor, indifferent?" There were 122 who answered. Of these, 64 said the instruction was poor or indifferent, while 58 said it was satisfactory. Eleven pointed out they had none or practically none and two mentioned Father O'Hara's "Bulletins" on Marriage as "tops." 
"Your annual earned income is $ ?" brought 120 replies, with the total earned income of these men being $1,206,000 an­nually. In addition, some had other income and the wives of some also had income. 
On the annua] earned income basis, 26 men earned $5000 or less per year, aver­aging $4250. In the $5-10,000 bracket, there 
The Class of '28 following ils dass Mass on June 6. Bemie Garber is second from the left front row. 
were 62, averaging $7645 each. Twenty-three men were in the §10-20,000 group, averaging $15,000 each. Nine men earned over $20,000 and up to $60,000, averaging $30,722. 
Being a Notre Dame man was instru­mental in securing empIo>Tnent for 31 men. Three said "perhaps," 79 said "no," 7 gave no answer and 5 gave various other answers, such as "I never permitted it to" and "No, I never played football." Asked "Have you aided other ND men to find jobs?" 62 said "yes," 50 answered "no" and 13 gave vari­ous or no answers. Among the group saying "no" many remarked that they never had occasion nor opportunity to do so. One of the affirmative's said "Yes, several, and they are grateful." 
If you are interested in Notre Dame's fi­nancial future, you will appreciate the re­plies to the question: "Do you expect to remember Notre Dame in your will?" Fifty-one do expect to do so, 41 do not, 24 said it depends on circumstances and 9 gave no answer. Among the more extensive answers were "I have already," "Hadn't thought of it" and many "I would like to." However, do not allow these replies to lessen your an­ual contribution—the 1928 men were not asked: "Have you made your will?" 
While a few hesitated in giving their in­comes, all 125 told whether or not they voted regularly in local elections. "Yes" was the answer of 116, and only 9 said "No." If you are interested in forecasting elections, 53 are Democrats, 24 Republicans, 31 Inde­pendent and 7 did not answer or were in­definite. 
Concetning Religious Matters 
Turning to religious matters, and con­sidering only Catholic members of the class, 93 said "yes" to the question, "While at ND were you ever a daily communicant?" Twenty-eight answered "no." "How often do you receive Communion now?" brought these interesting figures: daily-8, weekly-21, monthly-51, bi-monthIy-11, quarterly-8, six months-7, yearly-4, not often-l, not often enough-2, rarely-2, not at aU-4. Two others received frequently but at irregular times. 
"Would you like ND to offer any direct religious aid or influence after graduation?" Among the more extensive answers appeared these: 
"Religious bulletins of the tj-pe which Father O'Hara authored ivould do good; brief, pointed, practical one-page affairs about once a week or once a month." 
"Through alumni magazine or semi­annual bulletin." 
"Have not felt it necessarj- myself." 
"Some good spiritual reading." 
"If C.S.C. Order and the alumni could forget politics." "Articles on political-religious questions in ALUMNUS." 
"Present churchmen only interested in fi­nancial manipulations—a good N.D. sermon is needed." 
"It does." 
"Yes—I have yet to have a pastor who could inspire me to the spiritual level that 

"I think it does . . . stUl feel N.D.'s tremendous influence on me." 
"Yes. Why not a semi-annual or quarterly reminder of some kind recalling to graduates specific religious practices that were popular when they were in school?" 
"No, I should be able to guide myself." "Yes—retreats for graduates." "No, if you don't have it then it's too 

late." To summarize, 61 said "yes," 19 "no," 20 no answer and 25 other answers. Asked "Have you ever subscribed to the 
N.D. Religious Bulletin since graduation?" 24 said "yes" and 100 replied "no." Several did not know they could subscribe and one answered "Yes, but it has been pretty dull since O'Hara." 
In comparing other colleges generally, in the field of their major, with N.D., the '28 graduates found them: same—42, poorer— 27, better—20, don't know—23, other answers—8. 
After twenty years, 86 members of this class said yes, they would have liked more vocational guidance while at N.D. Twenty-three answered in the negative. Among the answers were these comments: 
"Notre Dame verj' weak regarding this essential—with very little noticeable im­provement." 
"Not more—some!" "No—not for myself." "Definitely—got none." "I had all I wanted—informally. I don't 

think more formal guidance would have helped." "Yes—however more is available now." "Not at time." "Yes, too many of our class had no notion of what they wanted to do." Another of the ninet>'-nine questions in the survey was: "Should you have received 
more instruction on physical and mental hy-t 
Said one member: "I was acquainted with the former and abhor the latter in all forms." Other replies included: "If you haven't ac­quired these habits before college, you never will." "Prof. Kaczmarek did a fine job in the allotcd time." "We all could have used it." Nevertheless, 73 of the class said they should have received more, while only 38 said "no." 
In the "he-man" era of the '28 class, the term "social graces" was not too common and some South Benders objected to the patched and dirty corduroys and the hob­nailed shoes of the students. But perhaps the '28 group was wiser than it knew, con­sidering the hardships of the consequent de­pression. It was with crossed fingers that this question was asked: "Should the clais of '28 have been instructed more on "social graces" while in college?" Here is the result: 
"On essential social graces—definitely yes!" 
"How can you instruct breeding?" 
"The home should have taken care of that." 
"Yes, while it wouldn't be necessary to teach the boys to dance as is done at West Point and Annapolis, there is much that could be done in this field that would be helpful to both students and Notre Dame before and after graduation." 
"I think we could have all done with more: I credit the Univeirsty for turning out a pretty good brand of men, however. From the standpoint of character and morals I believe we were superior." 
"No. Train men the value of character— honesty." 
"We were in the 'he-man' era. I think there should be stress on social graces. For 
was 'natural' at N.D. We arc just let drift The '28 party on Jun« 4. lohB Fnderi ^ clan prendenl. preiddes ot the along." Izaak WoHoa League dnbhouae. 
instance—I've never learned to dance or play golf; feel uncomfortable at formal din­

^ nets." 
;: "Naw!" 
"Class of '28 was gifted with social graces." 
The aspects of undergraduate life at No­tre Dame for which members of the '28 class are most grateful are: Fellowship—39, Religion—33, no answer—28, Fathe r O'Hara—5, social equality—5, no fraterni­ties—4, non co-ed—3, daily communion—2, spirit—2, Dr. Confrey—2. Other aspects mentioned were: Football, discipline, good "lay" professors, reasonable academi c standards, companionship with several out­standing minds. Some replies mentioned sev­eral aspects. 
What Was Greatest Deficiency? 
Asked "What was greatest deficiency in the life you led at N.D.?" 55 gave no answer or said "none." "Social activities" 
were given as the deficiency by II "Lack­ing funds, all work and no play" by 8. Five mentioned "living off campus," while four 

A each mentioned "lack of sharing in ath­letics" and "failure to appreciate education." Six persons mentioned lack of scholarly at­mosphere or encouragement to study. Three each said "personal failure to participate," "lack of practical experience in profession," "child-like discipline," "lack of feminine companionship," "poor instructors." 
Other factors receiving, one mention each, were: "failure to appreciate at times how truly great it was," "dull, unqualified, un­inspired teachers," "not enough contact with art of living," "lack of personal contact with faculty," "too much work" and "lack of sleep." 
But when asked if, "during summer months, would you return to N.D. for a three-day seminar on your occupation or profession," 69 answered "yes," ten said "maybe," 30 said "no," 8 gave no answer and 8 gave various other replies. 
Athletics at Notre Dame is always a good 

-9 discussion point. One hundred twenty-three men answered the question "Among your acquaintances, does N.D.'s athletic fame overshadow its academic standing?" "Yes," replied 106. "No," said 16. From the addi­tional remarks given, the general conclusion seems to be that most members of the class would like to see academic standing given top place, but not merely by cutting down athletic prowess. 
Activity in Local Club 
The 125 answering the questionnaire said, in answer to "Are you active in your city or state N.D. alumni club?": "yes" by 55, "no" by 53, "none near" by 7 and various other answers by 7. In the "no" column one man added: "run by same politicians who ran affairs at N.D.—'voice voting' with selec­tions railroaded through as usual—saves time, though." 

v, ^ "Excepting endowment, what is Notre 
•\ W Dame's greatest need today?" brought ex­tensive answers from those who did reply to this question. 
A majority—58—said they did not know, were not qualified to answer or gave no answer. Four replied "none." Among the other replies were these: Ten wanted "a better faculty;" six requested "intelligent publicity—other than athletic;" five would like "acceptance as an outstanding educa­tional institution rather than a physical edu­cation school." Three each were for "higher scholastic standing," "educating public on work in science and other fields" and "en­larged physical facilities." 
A longer answer was: "To lose an oc­casional game so that we won't be con­sidered products of a football factory. To spread the word of our educational advan­tages. The public still thinks of us as a foot­ball team. The biggest headline thrill I ever got out of Notre Dame was the South Bend Tribune's eight-column line: "NIEUW­L-^ND PERFECTS SYNTHETIC RUB­BER." 
Here are more replies to the question of N.D.'s greatest need: Medical school; lower rates for poorer boys; more contentment in what she has; better public relations as an educational institution; authorities who have come to realize that they should be operat­ing a college, not a long-panted parochial school with monastic overtones; consolida­tion and less growth. 
Better laboratory facilities; development into a true university; laymen counselors; vocational guidance; better law school; a ra­dio station; co-education; expanded curri­cula; to remain in spirit always what it was in past; fighting Communism; a little moie perspective; great voice like Msgr. Sheen of Catholic U.; less students. 
Increased research; expanded library fa­cilities; more facilities for graduate work; bringing back scholastic standing to pre­war basis. 
In order to stir interest in the 20th re­union of the '28 class and to have its mem­bers look at a roster of the names and ad­dresses and perhaps renew acquaintance with old friends and associates, the questionnaire asked: "Which member of the class of '28 do you consider most successful? (See your class roster!)" However, perhaps someone would be interested in the replies, or rather the lack of them as only 24 members of the class replied to this question. 
George N. Beamer and Louis F. Buckley were each named four times; Robert Grant twice. Nine others received one vote each. Other answers were: "The one happiest with what he is." "The one who is most contented with what he has." And "Call it a tie among all those who answer "yes" to question No. 99." 
Question number ninety-nine was: "Are you reasonably content with your life?" 
Of the 125 replying, 102 said yes, they were reasonably content; twelve said "no;" seven said "moderately;" one was undecided and three gave no answer. As one of the '28 men answered: "Exceptionally so—thank God, parents, Notre Dame, wife and family." 

AeoA Podl Afie Auifned Ui Gommtuut^ 
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C, assistant professor of economics, was named assistant director of studies at the University, in an announcement on July 16 by Rev. Thomas 
K. Steiner, C.S.C, Provincial. 
Father Steiner made the announcement of Father Norton's appointment in conjunc­tion with announcement of the 1948 obedi­ences of the priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Father Norton, who was ordained in 1933, taught courses in economics, sociology and politics at St. Edward's University in Aus­tin, Texas, from 1934 until 1943. He served as a chaplain with the Marine Corps during World War II and was discharged in 1946 a Lieutenant (SG), USNR. 
Father Norton, who has been a member of the faculty of Notre Dame since 1946, will ser\'e as assistant to the Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, director of studies. 
Priests assigned to Notre Dame from other points include: Rev. Lawrence G. Broestl, C.S.C, from St. Edward's Univer­sity, Austin, Tex.; Rev. Alfred F. Mendez, C.S.C, from the Mexican Missions, Austin, Tex.; Rev. James E. d'Autremont, C.S.C, from St. George's College in Santiago, Chile; Rev. Cletus S. Bachofer, C.S.C, and Rev. William A. Botzum, C.S.C., both of whom recently completed doctor of philosophy work at the University of Chicago; and the Rev. Thomas J. McDonagh, C.S.C, who completed doctorate work at the Uni­versity of Wisconsin. All six of the priests will serve as prefects at Notre Dame. 
Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C, professor of English at Notre Dame, was named as­sistant chaplain at St. Mary's convent on July 16 and Rev. Charles L. Doremus, C.S.C, professor of French, was assigned to Sacred Heart Church in New Orleans. 
Other Community changes for the year involve Rev. Walter J. Higgins, C.S.C, transferred from his position as pastor of Christ the Iting Church north of South Bend to await assignment to special duties. Father Higgins was succeeded by the Rev. Patrick R. Duffy, C.S.C, transferred from St. Ignatius Church, Austin, Tex. 
Two assistant pastors at St. Patrick's Church in South Bend were transferred to new duties and replacements announced. .Rev. John J. Haley, C.S.C, was assigned to S t George's College in Santiago, Chile, while Rev. Edmund V. Campers, CS.C , went to Sacred Heart Church, New Or­leans, La. Assigned to St. Patrick's were Rev. Joseph P. Corcoran, C.S.C, and Rev. George J. Baxter, CS.C. Rev. Raymond 
A. Massart, CS.C , was named an assistant pastor at St. Joseph's Church in South Bend. 
1U 
afternoon off to see a rodeo at Double Ear 7 Ranch. A coll went out over the 
public address system asking if anyone 
in the stands wanted to challenge the 
field of experts from five surrounding states in a calf roping contest Dr. Luckey jumped down from the stands, 

UNIVERSITY 
motmted a horse, and roped a calf in 
By EDWARD A. nSCHER, '37 

TWO HUNDRED and sixty-three de­grees, 63 in the Graduate School and 200 undergraduate, were conferred on Friday, Aug. 13, as the University closed its annual eight-week summer session. Dean Lawrence 
H. Baldingcr of the College of Science was the speaker at the summer convocation, warning the graduate that "economic de­mocracy," based on democratic thinking by both labor and management, is vital to the success of the .'American way of life. 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., presi­dent, celebrated the baccalaureate Mass in Sacred Heart Church on the morning of .•\ug. 13 and Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., executive assistant to the president, delivered the baccalaureate sermon. Morally responsible leadership is essential in the United States, Father Sweeney said, if the nation is to fulfill its destiny. 
A total of 1,822 students were enrolled in the Summer Session, including 1,237 under­graduates and 585 in the Graduate School. Included in the Graduate School total were 221 Sisters and 79 priests representing many religious orders from all parts of the countr\-. 
THE LULL between summer session and school year has settled over the campus. Life here will return to normal with registration Sept. 13, 14, and 15 and opening of classes Sept. 16. 

THE PILGRIM STATUE of Our Lady of Fatima brought more than 10,000 per­sons to the campus to pray for the con­version of Russia. It was here the first week in -August. The famous replica was blessed before 200,000 pilgrims at Fatima, in Portugal, last Oct. 13, Founders Day at Notre Dame. It entered the United States at Niagara Falls, N. Y., Dec. 8, where it was received by Bishop O'Hara, former president of Notre Dame, and started on its tour through the countr>-. An alumnus, the Rev. Michael Benedict, '39, is in charge of the pilgrimage. 
LATEST TECHNIQUES in advertising ' 
were studied by more than 100 repre­
sentatives of advertising firms from all 
parts of the country at Notre Dame's 
Outdoor Advertising School. The three-
week course was sponsored by the 
Outdoor Advertising Foundation at 

Notre Dame, in conjunction with the 

TODAY 
America and Outdoor Advertising, In­
corporated. 
UNIQUE METHODS of fostering Cath­olic -Action among students were discussed at a special Catholic .Action Institute held for three days on the campus. The Insti­tute was directed by the Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., assistant professor of Religion and Catholic .Action chaplain at Notre Dame. 
OLD COW HANDS got the surprise of their lives when an N. D. prof beat them at their own game. Here is how it hap­pened: Dr. T. C. Luckey, chief biochem­ist in the Laboratories of Bacteriology at the University of Notre Dame (LOBUND), was attending a meeting of the National Poultry Association in Denver, Colo., when he and fellow scientists took an 18 seconds to emerge as champion. The 
answer: Dr. Luckey grew up on a ranch 
in Wyoming. 
THE HISTORY CLUB of Notre Dame held its second annual convention here with more than 100 teachers of high school his­tory in attendance. The club, founded be­fore World War II, originally consisted of former N. D. students teaching histor)- in high school. -As now organized, however, it is open to all teachers of high school histor)'. 
TWO EXPERTS in audio-visual aids said that Notre Dame has assumed leadership in audio-visual education among Catholic educational institutions. The experts. Eldon Imhoif. vice-presi­dent of the Victor Animatograph Cor­poration, Davenport. la., and Eugene Sherwood, of Coronet Instructional Films, Chicago, praised the newly-created Audio-Visual Center organized here to develop a film library so that other Catholic universities, colleges, high schools, and elementary schools 
Outdoor Advertising Association of For the first time in many years, the dome gets a new gown of gold 
Volume 26, No. 5, Sept.-Oct., 1948 

The Pilgrim Statue of Our Lady of Fatima is carried in procession 
might draw upon it for audio-visual 
training. 
LANDLORDS who refuse to rent to families with children should be taxed by the federal government, was an opinion ex­pressed in a poll of married vets attending Notre Dame. The poll was made by John 
C. Taylor as his thesis for a bachelor's degree in soeiolog)-. Taylor was totally blinded by a shell on Guadalcanal. He com­pleted his education with the aid of his wife who lives with him and their child in Vetvillc, Notre Dame's housing project for married veterans. 

9 
Eighty-si.x per cent of vets polled favored government aid to married college students of the future, and of this group 93 per cent wanted the aid to be in the nature of a loan rather than an outright grant. Of those favoring aid, 74 per cent thought that it might be financed by taxing landlords who refused to rent to families with children. Other suggestions included a ta.x on child­less families and a bachelor's tax. 
The group polled included only married vets who were single when first they en­rolled in college. They indicated that mar­riage had a definite beneficial influence on their scholastic work. Eighty-six per cent said that they have been receiving higher grades since assuming family responsibilities. 
The vets urged that Colleges and univer­sities avoid returning to a prevalent pre­war policy of forbidding the marriage of undergraduates. 

^jtah SUPPORT OF SOVIET RUSSIA among the German population in the Western Zone is almost completely non-existent, according to Dr. Waldemar Gurian. professor of Political Science and Edi­tor of the "Review of Politics," who re­cently returned to the University after a six weeks trip to Germany. 
"The tension in the current Berlin situation is spreading throughout Ger­many," Dr. Gurian observed. "Nattir­ally, there are groups in Germany who believe that a new war will provide the opportunity for Germany to regain some of her lost power and prestige. Intelligent people of the nation, how­ever, realize that a conflict forced by Soviet Russia would have as its first victims Germany and Europe." 

A SCARCITY of scientific equipment and adequate librar)- facilities are major obstacles in the work of German scientists, according to Dr. Karl Friedrich BonhoefTer, director of the Institute of Chcmistr>- at the University of Berlin, who has been named the first Rcilly Lecturer in Chemistry at Notre Dame. 
Dr. BonhoefTer, one of the world's fore­most authorities on physical chemistry lec­tured twice weekly to graduate students and members of the faculty. The Reilly Lectures in Chemistr>' were founded by a benefaction from Peter C. Reilly, Indian­apolis industrialist, who is a member of the .Associate Board of Lay Trustees and the .'\dvisor>' Council for Science and Engineer­ing at Notre Dame. 
THE PROMOTION of leligiona rbca­lions wo* ttiimmid at Ih* sacond om­nual thrae-day Sisters Vocational Insti­tuta, sponsored by Notre Denne. Thiae hundred sisters and sixty priests, at­tended. 
SEX'ERAL ANNOUNCEMENTS were made by the Mediaeval Institute recently: The Rev. Asztrik Gabriel, O. Praem, Hun­garian educator, was named a member of the Institute's faculty, and the Rev. Peter O'Reilly, philosopher, was named a research fellow in the Institute. Three scholarships for advanced study and research in the In­stitute will go to Bernard A. Gendreau, of Samia, Ontario, Canada; Sylvester P. Thei­sen, of Richmond, Minn., and James J. John, of Browerville, Minn. 
AMERICAN AID to Europe must be a s extremely long range program, il European nations are to effect a com­plete economic recovery, said Dr. Ed­ward M. Hugh-Jones. British educator who served as a special member of the faculty during the Summer Session. He also said that the allied powers must not dismantle German industry if com­plete recovery is desired. 
The Western Powers "must contem­plate leaving Berlin" in order to salvage the vastly important plan for political and economic revival of western Ger­many. Dr. Hugh-Jones said. 
REV. THOMAS T. McAVOY, C.S.C, head of the Department of History and managing editor of the Review of Politics at the University, is the subject of an article in a recent issue of Herder's Korrespondenz, published in Freiburg, Germany. 
The article on Father McAvoy in the German publication deals with a study of an article entitled "The Formation of the Catholic Minority in the United States, 1820 to 1850," which appeared in the Janu­ary, 1948, issue of the Reniew of Politics and on articles in the Catholic Historical Review. 
Father McAvoy is praised in the German magazine which points out that "the effort made (by Father McAvoy) to distinguish between the true history of American Cath­olicism and the European notion of .Amer­ican Catholicism has helped to promote a better understanding between the American Catholics and the Europeans." 
STRICT -ADHERENCE TO THE laws of justice and charity, based on the love of God, is vital if the world is to find true and lasting peace, the Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said at the final session of the sec­ond regional congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, held at Buffalo, N. Y. 
The three-day Congress was presided over by the Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, 
Graduates of August, 1948, begin procession to Sacred Heart Church for Baccalaureate Mass 
former president of Notre Dame, now Bish­
op of Buffalo. 

"The world needs the admission of a God, the objectivit>' of laws of justice and charit}% more than it does anything else," Father Cavanaugh stressed. "I fear America and all the world is fast becoming a land of pa­gans in belief and action. It is quite prob­able that as high as 75 per cent of our neighbors either do not believe in God, or if they do believe their conduct indicates at least Agnosticism. 
"For example on the capital-labor front we find incessant struggle that disturbs and hurts capital, labor and the public. There is seldom a word about the justice or the equity involved in a concrete situation. The chief concern of both contestants seems to be to force a disadvantageous settlement on the other party. Economic rather than Di­vine might is what each depends upon." 
Father Cavanaugh emphasized before the congress that "what we need in the capital-labor struggle" are "workers who will give a full day's work for a full day's pay, work­ers who realize that if they loaf on the job they might just as well steal from the till of the employer . . . workers who will de­mand a return that is dictated by justice and charity and not by might." 
"On the other hand we need more em­ployers imbued with the spirit of fair play who will give labor a just and equitable re­turn that may even demand sacrifice on their part," Father Cavanaugh continued. "We need employers who will see in their workers a fellowman possessed of a body and soul every bit as valuable as their own. We need more employers bent on doing justice to labor instead of watching for op­portunities of exploitation and both will do these things if they live the life they are obligated to live." 
The Notre Dame dean cited the United Nations Relief Administration and the United Nations Organization as two organi­zations based on pagan philosophy. "We are asked to assist the UNRA because we are told that it is doing much to ward off Com­munism, or that a stable Europe free of the haunting fear of hunger is likely to malce a more profitable customer for our foreign trade," Father Cavanaugh observed. "There is none of that beautiful sentiment told by Christ the night before He died when He prayed that we might be one as He and the Father are one. We are seldom reminded that the second great Commandment is to love one's neighbor as one's self." 
TO COUNTERACT the widespread propaganda against Catholic schools that tends to set up an iron curtain 
N.D. AT LEGION CONVENTION 
The Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami, with headquarters in Miami, wants to sponsor a Notre Dame gath­ering at the time of the national American Legion convention in Mi­ami in October. Because it is obvious­ly difficult to arrange such a gather­ing in advance, the club makes the following request of all J'Jotre Dame legionnaires who will attend the con­vention: Immediately upon arrival in Miami, call one of the following members of the Notre Dame club— 
I. I. Probst, '26, Phone, 2-4116; George Brautigam, '29, Phone 2-2461; Paris Cowart, '34, Phone, 2-6371. 
If a sizable group of Notre Dame men are present, the club will be hap­py to arrange a gathering at a time and place convenient for the majority. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

between goTemment and religious edu­cation, the Are Maria Press has pub­lished two pamphlets, "Why Not Equal Bights for All Children?" ond "Why the Catholic School?" Authored by the Bev. John A. O'Brien, professor of Beligion at Notre Dame, they are designed to give on occurate picture of the enormous contribution being made by the Catholic school system to the welfare of the United States, and to show how this system is a bulwark against the mount­ing tide of Communism, paganism and materialism. 
New Class Ordained 

Ten members of the United States prov­ince of the Congregation of Holy Cross were ordained to the priesthood in June. For nine of them. Most Rev. Patrick A. O'Boyle, archbishop of Washington, D. C, officiated in the chapel of Holy Cross College on June 
2. These (and the places of their first as­signment) were: Rev. Robert J. Askins, Grand Rapids, Mich., to Bengal missions; Rev. William J. Beston, Stoneham, Mass., to assist the bishop of Austin, Texas; Rev. Thomas L. Campbell, Salem, Mass., to con­tinue studies in Paris; Rev. Robert J. Fagan, Bath, N. Y., to teach at Notre Dame; Rev. James L. Martin, Taunton, Mass., to study at Notre Dame; Rev. Edward D. Connor, Denver, to continue studies in Paris; Rev. Joseph E. O'Neill, Hyde Park, Mass., to teach at Portland University; Rev. Roger 
P. Quilty, Dorchester, Mass., to continue studies at Catholic University; Rev. Donald 
L. Siebert, Toledo, O., to continue studies at Toronto, Canada. 
The tenth member of this year's class. Rev. Paul B. Rankin, Ancon, Canal Zone was ordained in St. Mary's Church, Balboa, Canal Zone, on June 5 by Most Rev. Fran­cis Beckman, CM., archbishop of Panama. He will teach in St. George's College, San­tiago, Chile, S. A. Father Rankin was the first Panama resident to be ordained in Pan­ama and the first C.S.C. priest from that area. 

7948 Lay Refreaf 

Fifteen hundred Catholic laymen, includ­ing a group of Notre Dame alumni, attend­ed the 26th annual Laymen's Retreat con­ducted Aug. 19-22 on the campus. Rev. Michael A. Foran, C.S.C, director of re­treats, was in charge of arrangements and Rev. Walter K. Conway, C.S.C, was the retreat master. 
All services of the retreat, with the excep­tion of daily Mass, were conducted at the Grotto. A candlelight procession on Satur­day night, Aug. 21, was the one of the high points of the retreat. All participants bear­ing lighted tapers, marched from Sacred Heart Church, past Corby Hall and around to the Grotto for Solemn Benediction. A Conununion breakfast on Sunday morning closed the weekend. 
Volume 26, No. 5, Sept.-Ocf., 1948 


A Tribute to Clarence McCabe 
Catholic Journalist and Notre Dame Man 
Br MATTHEW A. McXNIGHT. Washington. D. C. 
{The ALUMNUS can't very often publish a tribute to a deceased alumnus, and you'll understand why. But when a tribute like the one following is volunteered, and by a non-alumnus, we feel that we have almost an obligation to publish it. For seldom have we seen such a portrayal of moral, respon­sible and intellectual leadership in a Notre Dame man. 
Clarence McCabe, '22, died on Aug. I. Detailed information about him will be found both in "Deaths" and in the 1922 news in this issue.—Ed.) 
It might seem inappropriate for a non­professional writer to pen a panegyric for a newspaper man. Yet I feel it a duty to try to express my deep admiration for a well-informed, courageous, and high-minded Catholic journalist. If I did not write I would not be true to that strong feeling of affection I had for Clarence J. McCabe. 
Others may write about his nimble-mind­ed approach to the art of editorial writing or to other phases of his newspaper work. I wish to talk about the man I knew and loved as a friend; as one with whom I shared an intellectual companionship out­side the office where the pressure of getting the work done is absent. 
Few More Gentle Than He 
I have met more traveled men, more ver­

satile men, more learned men. Few men ^ that I have known have been more tolerant '*' of the weaknesses of others, more patient 
with human frailty, more gentle with the small and large deceits of men. Clarence McCabe was discerning yet he always seem­ed to remember his own faults which pre­vented that sharp criticism of others we often find in a keen intellect. 
Life had handed a heavy bounty to him, both in grief and in happiness. The former was a bounty because it mellowed an im­petuous nature. There was much of the poet and visionary in McCabe. His very wholesome compassion for sinful man never was corrupted by heavy sentimentality. He was steadfast in his ideals and clung to them when others would have despaired and sur­rendered. He used often the word "fascis­tic" when referring to some evil, to some compromise, to some accepted but non-
Christian thinking. 

He was considered by some people to ^ be radical, communistic, and even "crazy" \^ ^ because he clung tenaciously to Catholic principles particularly to those found in the great modem encyclicals on social justice. 
He shunned criticism of racial or religious minorities. He had studied profoundly in economics and realize'd the importance of the impact of economic life on the moral life of people. Because he was an idealist, who had great hope for mankind, he was considered "impractical" by those who had not drunk deeply enough or long enough at the well springs of Catholic social thought. He admired, naturally enough, Msgr. John 
A. Ryan, the great interpreter of the encycli­cals on social justice. He admired these en­cyclicals whose thought constantly leaped ahead of much of our ideas about labor and social justice. He knew that the reformation of man must be accompanied by the refor­mation of the economic and social systems in vogue because one impinged on the other. 
He knew that certain accepted practices accompanied certain economic and social conditions and despised, above all, the cruel­ty that were part and parcel of most of them. He did not refuse to sec the truth in writers other than Catholic, whether they were writing on economics, social history, or religion. He simply demanded thorough scholarship behind these works. Yet he never went overboard, as do some "tolerant" Catholics who have acquired a malicious joy in reading of some of the ecclesiastical maladministration and hypocrisy of by gone days. 
The newspaper reports of his death men­tion his study of the life of Joan of Arc. He saw in her trial to what lengths cruelty 
Clarence J. McCabe. '22 

can project itself under the guise of noble thinking. He never forgot the gentle Christ who said: "Let him who is without sin cast the first stone." On the other hand, he knew as any scholarly man knows, the far reaching importance of ideas and prin­ciples. He refused to believe that unchris­tian means must be used to attain Christian ends. He admired the non-violent Gandhi, of course. He deplored the sport of fal­conry, considering it a sad remnant of the ancient cruel past. There was too much dagger work in the opera for hb sensitive soul and, like Eric Gill, he sympathized with the worker behind the modem machine who did not have a chance to inject his perso­nality into the product of his work. 
Yes, McCabe was an unusual combina­tion. He was a modem missionary impelled, perhaps, by the spirit of the ancient Irish missionary-poet who was tireless in his ef­forts to alleviate the sufferings of mankind. One does not associate poetry and econom­ics but they were blended together in Clar­ence J. McCabe. 
Hb sense of humor, his wit, his tolerance made him a charming, fun-loving compa-
He Was Always Courageous 

He suffered several heart attacks over the past few years but he remained cheerful and wanted desperately to live bccaiue he was always interested, always hopeful, always courageous. The doctors say it is remark­able that he lived with so little left of his heart, but every fibre of this great heart wis big and Clarence had weathered so much of the tragic in his life that he thought this was just another trial to be met like a man. 
I would consider him the ideal Catholic journalist. He did not have that zeal that is blinded by a Torquemadean cruelty. He did not relish controversy on a low plane. He did not consider his work "propaganda" but an honorable profession where Truth must enlighten every sentence he wrote. 
He was fair, honorable, and genuine. He never asked for fame or publicity. He was a great newspaper.man principally because he looked quite far backward and quite far into the future with that humility and love of his Faith, implanted by a good Irish mother and father, which accepts truth re­gardless of the feelings. 
He rests now, in peace, I feel certain: he is in the Land of Peace where to love the Truth and act on It brings no censure but only Love. 


Miracles in Hoilywood 
For himself, nothing. But for God and Mary, Father Patrick Peyton, CS.C, asks for and gets a million dollars worth of Hollywood talent. 
By JOSEPH A. BREIG. '28 
For himself, a Notre Dame man gradu­ated in 1937 and a priest of the Congrega­tion of Ho!y Cross, Father Patrick Peyton wouldn't ask for a postage stamp. He's as shy as a school girl, and six-feet-four though he is, you feel the moment you meet him that you'd better take him by the hand and keep him out of harm. Sometimes you come perilously near to patting him paternally on the head; and maybe you'd do it if the head wasn't so far above your own. 

For himself, nothing: but for God and Mary—the two great loves of his life— Father Peyton will ask for the sun, the moon and the stars; for a million dollars' worth of HoIl>-wood talent, or for a nation­wide radio network, .'^nd somehow, what he asks for he gets, probably because it's not for himself that he wants it. 
The first thing he asked for was .. . a postage stamp. He used it to mail the letter which inaugurated his Family Rosar)- Cru­sade. That borrowed stamp has now grown into a national colossus of publicity which. Father Peyton estimates, has already brought millions of American families to their knees at the feet of the Mother of God cvcr>­evening. 
He is by no means satisfied with that. The driving ambition of his life—the goal which keeps him traveling and talking and praying on a schedule which humanly speak­ing ought to put him permanently on the flat of his back—is 10,000,000 families per­petually committed to the daily Family Rosar}'. There is hardly any doubt that he will achieve it: and then will he rest? Not a chance. Bv that time, he will want 20,000,000. 
For is it not written in the Lesson for the Feast of the Maternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary that "they that eat me, shall yet hunger; and they that drink me, shall . yet thirst?" There is no rest for those who, having once tasted the sweetness of the spirit of Mar>-, are possessed with the desire that all others shall know it. There is no rest on earth for the Father Patrick Pcytons. 
How many thousands of miles he has traveled, to how many hundreds of thou­sands he has preached, on how many mil­lion of pages he has written and broadcast the message of Mar>-, are questions best left to the statisticians. The mar\-cl of it is that the bills are all paid: the Family Rosar>­Crusade has earned its way as it went. 
Mar\-els have a way of clustering around Father Peyton. They began here at Notre when he was within a year or two of ordi­nation, and suddenly came down with ad­vanced tuberculosis. The hemorrhages were becoming progressively more severe; and ad­hesions prevented the collapsing of the lung. 
.'\fter X-ray examinations, the physicians said they would have to remove a few ribs and collapse the lungs manually. Father Peyton, praying to God and Mary, con­sented. He went to the hospital to await the operation. There, one evening, he was visited by another priest. 
"Why," asked his visitor, "don't you ask the Blessed Virgin to cure you?" 
"I have," Patrick Peyton assured him, "and I think this is her way of curing me." 
The visitor was annoyed. "Nonsense!" he snorted. "She can do better than breaking your back to cure you. She's a woman, and she likes to be talked to. Talk to her, man, talk to her!" 
.And that night, Patrick Peyton "talked to her." A few days later, he felt an un­accountable buoyancy. He felt strong and well. He told the doctors so. They shrug­ged him off. The X-rays, they said, were unmistakable; there was no possibility of improvement; he must prepare for the oper­ation. 
But Patrick Peyton had learned faith from his \nsitor. He went to another physician and had new X-rays taken. The tuberculosis was gone. From that day to this, he has been a well man, working like a Trojan, getting along with insufficient sleep and sketchy meals, fighting a might>' battle for his pa­troness. 
Patrick Peyton vowed that in gratitude for his cure, he would consecrate his life to the Blessed Virgin. That he selected the Family Rosar)' as his work is not remark­able. In Ireland, he had been one of nine children, and had seen the family on its knees with father and mother every blessed evening of their lives: and if visitors were present, the visitors prayed too. . Often in the potato patch, young Patrick Peyton in those days felt the tugging of his 
Father Peyton and Pat O'Brien 

vocation, but he dragged his heels. The broad world with its bright lights was beck­oning; across the sea was .'\merica, the land of opportunity, the land of worldly success. . . . Patrick Peyton followed his two sisters to Pennsyh-ania, rejected a job they had engineered for him at the Cathedral, went to work in the coal mines, and at night walked along the main street reveling in the tawdr)' glitter of the marquees. 
This, he thought, was living! . . . But the hound of heaven was close on his heels. The coal mine became less and less glamorous. The work was too hard for a youth who did not then know that he was ailing. He took the job in the Cathedral, and there in the silence of the sanctuary, he opened his ears at last to the promptings of God. He gave his job to his brother, Tom, who was soon to follow him to the altar. 
There were things that young Patrick Pey­ton didn't know; things he was only to learn later when his sisters and his mother had died. He found then the reason for his priestly vocation—two of these holy women had offered their lives for two intentions. One was that the Peyton boys would be­come priests; the other, that they would be priests like Jesus Christ. 
There came then at last to young Patrick 
Peyton an understanding of the meaning . of love and sacrifice. And after he and his brother had been ordained together, he plunged into the life of dedication which has bound vast numbers of Americans with the noble chain of the Rosary, and showed 
them the real meaning of freedom. 
The movement proceeded quietly at first. Then one day there came to Father Peyton the thought—the daring thought—that the Rosary ought to go on' the air, coast-to­coast. Of the labors of non-Catholics which got him the network, there is no space here to tell. But one day the network was his; and he was face to face with the prospect of producing a program worthy of Mary. 
Mother's Day was selected for the broad­cast; and it could not have been Father Volume 26, Mo. 5, Sept.-Oct., 1948 
Peyton who made the selection. How could' it have occurred to him that Mother's Day in 1945 would fall on the anniversary of the consecration of the United States to the Immaculate Conception; and on the anni­versay of the first appearance of Our Lady of Fatima to the Portuguese shepherd-children; and on World Sodality Day? 
But even had he known all those things when the day was picked, he could not have known that May 13, Mother's Day, would be the Sunday set apart by President Truman—who was not then President—and Prime Minister Churchill as an international day of prayer in thanksgiving for Victory in Europe. 
It worked out that way; and Father Pey­ton will tell you Who worked it out. God willed it so, to honor His Immaculate Mother. 
Preparing for that broadcast. Father Pey­ton asked himself a thousand times who should recite the Rosar\-. Famous name after famous name was rejected; and then came the inspiration. He picked up his tele­phone in .Albany and asked the operator to get him the Sullivan family in Iowa who had lost five sons in the sinking of one battleship; and soon he was talking with the mother whose response to newspapermen's expressions of sympathy was one of the noblest sentences ever uttered: 
"Our Lord too had five wounds." 
The SuUivans said they would come. Then on another evening of self-question­ing. Father Peyton thought of Bing Crosby. Again the telephone. 

"Hello," said Father Peyton. "This is Father Patrick Peyton, a priest in Albany. I want you to do something for the Blessed Virgin Mary." 
And Bing Crosby was added to the pro­gram. 
One more person was needed—Arch­bishop Francis J. Spellman. But Father Pey­ton hesitated to ask. The archbishop was busy. . . . One evening his telephone rang. The archbishop,' he was told, would like to appear on the Rosary broadcast. Could it be arranged? 
It is doubtful that Father Peyton will ever again go through a day like that Mother's Day. Ever)-thing seemed to be going wrong; and yet when the program at last went on the air, it was inspired. Radiomen had nev­er had such a response to a religious pro­gram. Letters poured in from everywhere. .And then came Father Peyton's biggest Big Idea. 
It was so big it frightened him. It terror­ized him into indecision for a while. No, he had better not go to Holly\vood, he had better not tr>- to enlist the stars. . . . 
One day a little nun. walked into the headquarters of the Family Rosary Crusade in .Albany, her faced wreathed in trium­phant smiles, and announced that Mother Superior had the tickets. What tickets? The tickets to Los .Angeles, replied the Sister. Father Peyton said • he had not asked for reserx-ations. He didn't even know the Mother Superior. 
Well, all the little nun knew about it .vas that some one had telephoned to Mother Superior and said he was Father Peyton and asked fier to get reservations for him to Los Angeles. And although Mother Superior was puzzled by the request, the other sisters said that Father Peyton must be wanted on the west coast, and the reservations were arranged. 
To Hollywood then went Father Peyton; into the heart of the glamour which bad once blinded him, and to which he was now blind. He stepped from the plane at the airport, and asked himself what in the world he was doing there. He said a prayer to God and Mary, stepped into a cab, and told the driver to stop at the first church. 
The driver stopped at the second; and there Father Peyton met a priest who took him to the archbishop. That Sunday, Father Peyton was preaching at the Masses in a church frequented by movie stars. After each sermon, he waited in the sanctuary. -And they came to him—Irene Dunne, Lor­etta Young, Frank Sinatra, Joan Leslie, Charles Boyer, James Gleason, Maureen O'Hara— 
The list reads like a directory of fame. June Haver, Margaret O'Brien, Don Ame­che, Bing Crosby, Lou Costello, Jack Haley, Dick Haymes, Jeanne Grain, Cesar Romero, Roddv McDowall, Ruth Hussey, Edward and William Gargan, Pedro de Cordoba. . . . 
More than 50 of them, there were, and all eager to honor Our Lady, all anxious to sign on the dotted line to donate their tal­ents free of charge for at least one program a year dramatizing the Family Rosary on a nation-wide network. 
"There are saints in Holl>Tvood," said Father Peyton. 
Thus the Family Theater, now a nation­wide feature on the Mutual Broadcasting System, heard on most stations at Thursday at 10 p. m. (E.S.T.), Some stations carry the transcribed version at other times. 
The special broadcasts arranged by Fath­er Peyton, at Christmas and at Easter, are recent history. The .Joyful Hour of Dec. 20, 1947 (rebroadcast by popular demand on Christmas day), was in its widespread ap­peal one of the sensations of 1947 radio. An hour-long program, biiilt upon the recitation and dramatization of the joyful mysteries of the rosary by outstanding HoUyxvood stars, it was a top hit. The Triumphant Hour, Easter, 1948, was a similar achieve­ment. 
And in the diocese of London, Ontario, in recent months. Father Peyton has em­ployed all the psychology and devices of modem fund-raising to win more homes to the Family Rosary. Parishes divided into sections—teams, captains—all these, plus campaign literature, billboards and radio, were employed to bring more people to Mary through the daily rosary. 
.And to the men of Notre Dame, there must come down through the years the memory of dauntless Father Sorin who also believed that nothing was too good for Mary; and wasn't content until he had raised atop the Administration Building the Golden Dome with the golden statue of the 
Father Peyton with Bobby Driscoll, Irene Dunne and Loretta Young Immaculate Conception, patroness of the at the Triumphant Hour. Eoster, 1948 United States of America. 
The exhibit of the Holy Cross Brothers was a feature of the CSMC conrention. Left to right are Brother lames Madigon. C.S.C„ Brother lust Poczesny. CSX!. Brother Aubert Harrigan. C.S.C.. and Brother Richard Cunningham. C.S.C. 
3m500 Crusaders Meet 
Notre Dame, from Aug. 26 through Aug. 29, was the exciting scene of one of the country's largest missionar)- meetings as 3,500 delegates from ever>'where gathered for the thirteenth national convention of the Catholic Students Mission Crusade. 
Delegates resided in the residence halls, ate in the Dining Hall, swam in St. Joseph's Lake and in the Rockne Memorial, and car­ried on the real business of the convention in countless gatherings all over the campus. Just 25 years before, the CSMC, with the late Col. Robert B. Riordan, '24, playing a leading role in arrangements, had had an­other convention at Notre Dame. 
The missionary accomplishments of the Catholic Church in all parts of the world were inspiringly portrayed in the g>-mna­sium in a series of exhibits arranged by fifty missionary orders. Despite the intense heat of that week—the temperature climbed above 90 for eight straight days—thousands saw the exhibits. 
The fight against secularization, or the elimination of God and moralit)' from Amer­ican life, was the theme of the convention. Resolutions adopted pledged the students to encourage all Americans who believe in God to combat the evils of secularization. Speak­er after speaker at the conference pointed out how secularization was pa\'ing the way for the ultimate destruction of this coun­try by the forces of evil. These speakers also warned that secularization constituted an even greater menace to the peace and wel­fare of the United States than Communism. 
The fight against secularization will be spearheaded by Catholic college students. One of the resolutions pledged this group to "follow a program of study designed to reveal the fundamental errors underlying present social and political disorders, which are errors of thought," and to "encourage the public declaration of right principles and Christian philosophy in opposition to errors now current in the fields of higher ed­ucation, political action and sociology, in particular." This program will be known as the Philosophers' Apostolate. 
Strategy in the fight against secularism will be worked out by research teams in 175 seminaries affiliated with the Catholic Students Mission Crusade in the United States. Another resolution pledged thousands of seminarians "to organize research teams for exploring the relations between present-day threats to democracy and false teachings on the relations between man and God." Findings of these research groups will be in­corporated into the courses of study in Cath­olic schools thoughout this country by lead­ing educators. 
A total of 110 speakers, representing every field of Catholic religious endeavor in the United States and in all major countries of the world, addressed various panel discus­sions at the conference. They agreed in pre­senting a picture of immediate and wide­spread need for more home missions in this country, and for the reconstruction of churches, schools and other religious insti­tutions in war-devastated regions, with con­sequent need for more priests, sisters, broth­ers and other missionary personnel to in­crease the humanitarian, educational and purely religious works of Catholic mission­aries. 
A third resolution adopted pledged the Crusade, with the assistance of educational, missionary and other experts, to "undertake to intensify its present program for promot­ing knowledge of the problems of the Cath­olic Church in all parts of the world," and to stress the importance of vocational guid­ance among Catholic students to secure ad­ditional missionaries, who are badly needed. 
The conference also ui^ed greater social justice for the 14,000,000 American Ne­groes, holding in another resolution that "prejudice and unjust practices against Ne­groes are based fundamentally upon ignor­ance of the history of this group of Ameri­cans and a lack of regard for the Christian ideals which demand recognition of the God-given rights of all human beings." 
This fourth resolution then put the CSMC on record as recommending not only the continued general study of the history of American Negroes, but also a special study of unemployment, housing and health condi­tions of Negroes in each area where the CSMC has a unit with the view of helping to remedy unsatisfactory conditions. 
All Catholic schools, in a fifth resolution, were urged where legally possible to admit properly qualified Negro students. The reso­lution also urged Negro Catholics to take advantage of educational opportunities in Catholic schools with the aim of preparing themselves to become Catholic leaders among their own people. 
To meet the problem of personnel re­placement in foreign missions badly hit by the war, an intensive program of vocational guidance was adopted at the conference. Medical and educational work will receive special emphasis in this program, which will be directed by the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Edward 
A. Freking of Cincinnati, national secretary of the CSMC. 
The lead in working out the vocation guidance program was taken by Bishop Thomas J, McDonnell, auxiliary bishop of New York and national director of the So­ciety for the Propagation of the Faith. In an address at the conference, Bishop Mc­Donnell stressed that "never before were the missions in such dire straits; never before were the fields so white for the harvest." 
The importance of the lay apostolate was emphasized in a talk by the Rev. John A. O'Brien of Notre Dame. The United States, 
Ibis drawing ia the diatinctiTe feature of the Notre Dame Club of Phoenix stationery 
he declared, is a gigantic mission field bc­
f^ cause approximately 100,000,000 Americans ^ arc unchurched. 
"Lay persons can assist in making con­verts to the Church by their own exemplary lives, by bringing non-Catholic friends to Mass, by answering their questions intelli­gently, by providing suitable literature and especially by bringing them to a systematic course of instruction conducted by a priest," he said. 
In a special message to the conference. Pope Pius XII bestowed the Apostolic Bless­ing on all members of the CSMC and urged them "to work and study with unremitting zeal in behalf of the Church in mission lands, and particularly for the increase of vocations for the home and foreign mis­sions." The message was transmitted through Archbishop John T. McNichoIas of Cincin­nati, O:, national president of the CSMC, by Archbishop Amieto G. Cicognani, the Apostolic Delegate. 
At the cabled request of Cardinal Thom­as Tien of Peiping, China, the conference 
f^ voted to undertake the observance of a na­tionwide day of prayer for the Christian missions in China and for the general wel­fare of the Chinese people on Oct. 3, anni­versary of the founding of the Chinese Re­public. 
Others who addressed important sessions of the conference were Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen and Dr. Vincent Edward Smith both of the Catholic University of America; Bish­op Frank A. Thill, Salina, Kan.; Msgr. John 
M. Wolfe of Dubuque, la.; Rev. Calvert Alexander, S.J., New York; Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., Notre Dame; Rt. Rev. John J. Boardman, Brooklyn, N.Y.; Rev. Frederic P. Gehring, CM., Germantown, Pa., famous wartime chaplain; Miss Mary 
M. Schlink of Loveland, O.; Dr. Margaret Healy of Philadelphia; Msgr. Ferdinand A. Evans, Cincinnati, O.; and Msgr. Louis C. Vaeth, Baltimore. 
Keep Going: McG/ynn 

Joseph B. McGlynn, '12, governor in Mis­souri for the Notre Dame Foundation, spent much of the summer on a vacation trip through Europe. From Rome he wrote: "Greetings from the Eternal City. Keep the Foundation work going." 
The 11 fh Annual 


Wills and Bequest Program 
Forthcoming Brochure Outlines Methods By Which Individuals Can Give 
FOUR UNIVERSITIES TO INHERIT MILLIONS 
NEW YORK, Aug. 20.—(A.P.)— Four universities, Columbia, Yale, Princeton and Harvard, will share an estimated $40,000,000 under terms of a will filed today. 
The money was left to the institu­tions by Eugene Higgins, 89, an 1882 Columbia graduate. Higgins died July 28. 
The will specified that the univer­sities would receive an equal share of the residue of the estate estimated at $40,000,000, after numerous smaller bequests to friends and servants. 
It required that each university's share be invested and that the income then be used in any manner for the advancement of education and re­search except for building construc­tion or general university expenses. 

The above story was c^ed to our atten­tion by one of our Foundation workers. The answer is one well known in American fund-raising circles: 
If people generally know that a university needs money; if they know that it is trust­worthy in the handling of money; and if they know that the work it is doing de­serves money, then sufficient money is likely to be forthcoming. 
Our job through the Foundation is to es­tablish that knowledge for Notre Dame as effectively as it has been established for the four distinguished universities mentioned in the Associated Press dispatch. 
Booklet on Preia 

A very attractive presentation of this case is now in the hands of the printers, and it should be a stimulus to every alumnus both for his own remembering of Notre Dame, 
and for his agency in encouraging this re­
membering among increasing numbers ci 
friends. 
Notre Dame not only has the advantages of the academic investment of such funds but offers the donor the significant addi-­tional spiritual values of a religious educa­tion administered by a religious congrega­tion. 
America's spiritual renaissance should ac-' celcrate the cause of Notre Dame. But not ­unless our alumni, our lawyers, our trust offi­cers, our Foundation Committees, our Local Clubs, are intelligently and aggressively ar­ticulate. 
W« An Baluad ContamperoriM 

Another interesting news story of recent ' date indicates Notre Dame's position. An Associated Press story states that a Wash­ington survey indicates that it would take $30,000,000 to open a university for 5,000 students, just on the basis of physical fiant and teaching personnel. This does not in­clude any endowment. And the story con­cludes that once open, the sponsors would have to be prepared for an annual operating cost of $7,500,000. The University of Notre Dame is well aware that the survey is all too' accurate. It only serves to stress the needs we have already outlined to you many times. 
Wills and bequests, in an era of economic uncertainty, tend to increase as ""h^Tin^** of philanthropy. They offer multiple advan­tages. Many estates can be benefitted tax-wise through the remembrance of Notre Dame in the disposition of the estate. Wills and bequests offer even modest donors an opportunity to perpetuate their generosity. And the work of education, especially reli­gious education, is a living memorial that goes far beyond the significance of marble, and expands the ordinary spheres of prayer. 
All alumni will have opportimities to sug­gest the inclusion of Notre Dame in wills, of themselves, relatives and friends, patients, clients, etc., without any violation of ethics or good taste. The benefits to Notre Dame can be immeasurable. 


Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday 
December 5. 1948 

(the day after the Southern Califomia-Notre Dame football game) 
You'll be hearing more later. Right now, just remember the date and reserve it. 
ATHLETICS • • 
Football 
"A new era in Notre Dame football will begin with the opening of the 1948 season." 

These are the words of Frank VV. Leahy, head football coach and director of ath­letics for the Irish, prior to the season opener against Purdue on Sept. 25. 
"It makes sense that a team does not lose three .•Ml-.\mcricans, one of whom was the key operative quarterback in the intri­cate T-Formation and a total of five starters from the final game of the year before with­out having to start anew," Coach Leahy added. "We thought we had made some progress in spring practice, but this was dis­pelled after the Old Timers, with only one day of practice, trounced the Varsity, 20-14. 
"This does not mean Notre Dame will not have a good team during the forth­coming campaign. We have hopes of hav­ing a fairly good first eleven. We are simply aware that the era of national champion­ships is over and we'll be ver)- happy to attain victories in the majority of our games." 
And a look at the 1948 prospects will reveal the reason for Coach Leahy's pessi­mism. Quarterback Johnny Lujaclc and tackles George Connor and Ziggie Czarob­ski arc the departed .'\ll-.'\mericans. Joe Sig­naigo, right guard, and Bob Livingstone, left half, were the other two starters in the 1947 finale against Southern California who have departed via graduation. 
Four big "ifs" loom as the Irish bear down on the Purdue opener, which if they develop in the affirmative, will do much 
Frank Tripucka, Quarterback 
Bill Fischer, Captain and Guard 

toward assuring Notre Dame of a successful season. They are: (1) if the Irish uncover two tackles, (2) injuries are at a minimum, 
(3)
 Ernie Zaicjski, Terr)' Brennan and John Panelli recover from their knee injuries, and 

(4)
 Frank Tripucka makes good at the all-important T-quarterback assignment. "All of which adds up to too many 'ifs'," ac­cording to Leahy. 


Glancing at the 1948 Notre Dame pros­pects by positions, Leon Hart and Jim Martin are holdover regulars from the 1947 national champions at the end posts. Bol­stering the ends arc such stalwart veteran performers as Bill Wightkin, Bill Leonard, Doug Waybright, Ray Espenan and Bill Flynn. This aggregation provides the Irish with plenty of depth in the end department. 
No two positions on the squad could be more wide open than the right and left tackle berths. Not only did George Connor and Ziggie Czarobski graduate, but also their reser\'es. Gasper Urban and George Sullivan. Top prospects for the coming cam­paign seem to be Ralph McGehee, who was on the third team last year, and Gus Ci­fcUi and Ted Budynkiewicz, who were re-sescr\'es of an even lower rating. Jack Fal­lon, second string right tackle in 1946, and Deanc Thomas, a newcomer, offer rays of hope if completely recovered from injuries. 
The Irish will have two top-flight guards in Capt. Bill Fischer, .•MI-.\merican in 1947, and linebacker Marty Wendell, but may be weak in replacements. Bob Lally and John Frampton, both aggressive but not too heavy, are back from last year's team, while Dick Kuh is a sophomore possibility. Steve Oracko will handle the kicking-off and ex­tra point assignments. 
Bill Walsh, a bit slow afoot but a good ofl'ensive blocking center, will be after his fourth monogram at the pivot position. Walt Grothaus is another experienced vet­eran at center, while Gerry Groom, a soph­omore, lacks experience. Bill Vangen, who has been handicapped by leg injuries during the past two seasons, will make a final try for a monogram. 
.\t the all-important quarterback spot, Frank Tripucka, overshadowed by Lujack and George Ratterman in the past, will get his big chance as the No. 1 quarterback. Behind Tripucka will be Gerrj* Begley and Roger Brown, both holdover reser\-es from last season. Bob Williams, a sophomore, has displayed possibilities but needs much game experience. 
The big "if spot in Leahy's 1948 plans centers around the left halfback position. If Terr>' Brennan and Ernie Zalejski are sufficiently recovered from knee injuries to perform regularly, the Irish attack will be strengthened. Coy McGee, a 155-pounder, will get spot assignments, as will Lancaster Smith, another lightweight. Jack Landr)-, a sophomore, is inexperienced. 
-At right half, Emil Sitko is a consistent ground gainer and will be seeking his third monogram, although he has been consistent­ly susceptible to minor leg injuries in the past. Larry Coutrc showed much improve­ment in spring practice and is being counted on heavily for action this fall. 
John Panelli is a question mark at full­back because of a leg injur)'. Mike Swisto­wicz looked good at times during spring practice, but thus far in his career has not been consistent in game competition. Frank Spaniel was a reser\c at this position in 1947, while Fred Wallner is a sophomore possibilit)'. 
Chances are that the opening game of the season against Purdue will tell the stor>'. The Boilermakers, who gave the Irish plenty of trouble last year, boast one of the strongest teams in histor)' for 1948. If Leahy's eleven can sneak by Purdue, fans can expect the Irish to be plenty tough for the remainder of the campaign. 
LEAHY'S COLUMN 

Alumni can follow football in '48 from the inside through Frank Leahy's column which appears nationally through the McNaught Syndicate. 
Volume 26, No. 5, Sept-Oct., 1948 
Olympics 
Two famous Notre Dame athletic names figured promininently in the impessive showing made by the United States Olympic team in the 1948 Olympic games recently concluded in London, while a third rep­resented Canada in the games. 
Perhaps the most spectacular of the trio of Irish greats in the Olympics was Jim Delaney, '43, who gained a berth on the 
U. S. team while representing the Olympic Club in his hometown of San Francisco. Delaney, who holds both the indoor and outdoor shotput records at Notre Dame, finished second in Olympic competition and in doing so broke the former Olympic record. 
Vincc Bor>"la, who as a 17-year-old fresh­man set numerous all-time basketball records with the Irish in 1944, was chosen as a member of the U. S. Olympic basketball team and played a prominent part in the dri%e to the title by the United States iive. Borj'Ia, who also was a member of the 1945 Irish team before entering the Army, was chosen for the Olympic team as a result of his performance with the Denver Nuggets, of the AAU League. Bor>'la spearheaded the Nugget attack to the semi-finals of the OI>Tnpic Trial Tourney in Madison Square Garden. The Nuggets, minus Boryla who was forced out by a minor knee injur)-, lost to the Philips Oilers, ultimate winner of the meet, in the semi-finals. Bor>'la has two more years of competition remaining at No­tre Dame. 
Ernie McCuIlough, a native of Calgar)-, Alberta, Canada, who captained the 1948 Notre Dame track team, earned a berth on the Canadian team by finishing second in the 200-mcter and third in the 400-meter dashes in the final Canadian tr\'Outs at Montreal. McCuIlough, in 01)Tnpic compe­tition, failed to qualify for the finals when he took third place in the qualifying heats from which two emerged to the final event. 
Three other Notre Dame athletes came 

Football: Pre-Game Gatherings 
The football season always brings an attractive array of Friday night football parties to which alumni and their friends from every­where are invited. The ALUMNUS is listing here these parties for the 1948 season insofar as the data has been supplied by the sponsoring Notre Dame clubs up to press-time. 
Sept. 24—(Purdue)—^St. Joseph Valley Qub. Dance, Indiana Qub, South Bend. Same arrangements as for the pre-Army game dance last year. 
Oct.  1—(Pitt)—^Western Pennsylvania Qub.Hotel, Pittsburgh.   Smoker, Royal Yodc  
Oa.  8—(Michigan State)—^St. Joseph ValleyHotel, South Bend.  Qub.  Smoker, Oliver  

Oct. 15—(Nebraska)—^Nebraska Club. Smoker, Comhiwker Hotel, Lincoln. 
Oa. 29—(Navy)—Baltimore Qub. Rally, Lord Baltimore Hotel, Baltimore. Speakers, entertainment, special Maryland food. 
Washington, D. C. Qub. Navy game rally, with speakers, entertainment and dancing. Washington Hotel, 15th and Pennsylvania Ave., N.W. Tickets, two dollars a person. Ad­vance purchase advised—probably no door sale. For informa­tion or hotel accommodations, write Notre Dame Qub of Washington, D. C, 1740 K St., N.W. 
Special note: Banquet Room of Carlton Hotel will serve as a meeting place for Notre Dame people on Friday afternoon, October 29 in Washington, D. C. 
Nov. 12—(Nordiwestem)—St. Joseph Valley Qub. Smoker, Ohver Hotel, South Bend. 
Nov, 26—(Washington)—St. Joseph Valley Club. Smoker, Oliver Hotel, South Bend. 
Dec. 3—(Southern California)—Los Angeles Qub. Rally, Phil­harmonic Auditorium, Fifth and OUve Sts., opposite Biltmore Hotel. Entertainment by long list of Hollywood stars. Re­peat performance by many of the celebrities who appeared at last year's similar show. Capacity, 2,500. Tickets, ^1.10 to ^5.50. Reservations after Oct. 1 with Gene Calhoun, Notre Dame Qub of Los Angeles, Room 212, 704 S. Spring St. Proceeds to Notre Dame Foundation. 
The Los Angeles Club will also ^nso r a Notre Dame meet­ing room in Ae Biltmore Hotel on Dec. 3. Open at 4 p. m. and again following the rally. 
Leon Haii. End 
close to winning berths on the U. S. 01>Tn­pic team as they went all the way to the final tr>'outs in Evanston. Bill Leonard, miler, dashman Bob Smith, and steeple­chaser Jim Kittell all participated in the finals by finishing within the first six at the National Collegiate meet at Minneapolis. In the final tryouts, with only three to be se­lected for the Olympics, Kittell placed sixth and Leonard seventh. Smith failed to finish. 
Tennis 

Bill TuUy, '48, outstanding in tennis and track at Notre Dame for se%'eral years, won the Canadian open tennis championship ai Toronto in July. Jim Evert, '48, won the same championship in 1947. 
AllStar Game 
A record number of fourteen Notre Dame gridiron greats were members of Coach Frank Leahy's College All-Star squad which lost to the National League Chicago Cardi­nals, 28 to 0, in the AU-Star spectacle held Aug. 20 in Chicago. 
Three members of the 1947 Irish national champions—tackles George Connor and Ziggie Czarobski, and quarterback Johnny Lujack—were in the starting lineup for the All-Stars. 
But even in the personnel of the Cardi­nals, the spectacle was not without Notre Dame flavor. Elmer Angsman, Notre Dame halfback in 1944 and 1945, was a consistent ground gainer and plunged over for the first Cardinal touchdown. Bob Dove, Irish end in 1942, sparkled on defense, while a third former Notre Damer, Bob Hanlon who was with the Irish in 1944 as a member of the Navy V-12, saw action with the Cards as a halfback. 
Former Notre Dame players who were on the AU-Star Squad, in addition to Connor, Czarobski and Lujack, included: end Zeke O'Connor, tackles Gasper Urban and George Sullivan, guards Joe Signaigo and Bucky O'Connor, centers George Strohmcyer and Art Statute, and backs Bill Gompers, Bob Livingstone, Floyd Simmons and Pete Ash­baugh. Livingstone and Ashbaugh were in­jured and unable to play in the game. 
About Army Games 
Army vs. Notre Dame: The Big Game, 1913-1947, a book written by Jim Beach and Daniel Moore and published by Random House, was scheduled to appear on Sept. 20. It has forewords by Frank Leahy and Earl Blaik, present Army coach. 
The book, according to advance notices from the publisher, will be by all odds the most complete record of the Army-Notre Dame series yet to appear. Accounts of every game, along with anecdotes, statistics, lineups, season records and rosters, are in­cluded. Sixty pictures give it extra liveliness. 
Manion Writes on McCollum Case 
Conclusions Called "Revolutionary-' 
Foundation of 

The "wall of separation" between religion and government erected by the recent Su­preme Court decision in the McCollum case actually "fences man off from his time-honored right of sanctuary" according to Dr. Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the Col­lege of Law. 
Dean Manion made this obscr\-ation in an article, "The Church, the State and Mrs. McCollum," which appeared in the summer issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer, quarterly journal published by students in the College of Law at Notre Dame. 
•'The decision has raised an uproar of protest from lawyers and laymen in all parts of the country,'' Dean Manion pointed out. "It undoubtedly disturbed the equanimity of the Supreme Court itself. Only four of the Justices were completely satisfied with Justice Black's official judgment. Four others joined in a separate concurring opi­nion and one of these four added his own particular reser\'ations in the form of a third 
Martin Emmet Walter. '14 

Martin Emmet Walter, '14, is now the editor of the Houston Chronicle, one of the leading papers of the nation. He joined the Chronicle in 1922, becoming city editor in 1924, news and city editor in 1934, and managing editor in 1945, before his latest advancement recently. He was one of twelve leading editors of U. S. newspapers and magazines who in 1945 gathered from Nazi concentration camps first hand evidence of Nazi atrocities. 
Rights Involved  
opinion. Mr. Justice Reed dissented. In one  
way or another, however, and for one rea­ 
son or many, the Court decided eight to one  
that when the First Amendment says 'Con­ 
gress' it means, among other things, a local  
school board and when it says 'an establish­ 
ment of Religion,' it outlaws the approval  
by such board of any activity during school  
hours which is calculated to promote the  
interest of public school children in the ex­ 
istence and power of God."  
The Notre Dame dean stressed that the  
conclusions of the Supreme Court in this  
decision are definitely revolutionary in at  
least two important respects.  
"The first and most important of these  ^  
conclusions is the judicial determination that  ^  
religion and American government have  '•  
nothing in common and that both must  
henceforth operate in unrelated spheres be­ 
hind an impregnable wall of separation,"  
Dean Manion stated. "The second conclu­ 
sion solemnizes the unfortunate marriage of  
the First and Fourteenth Amendments, a  
union, which for some unstated reason the  
present Supreme Court has sought to effect  
throughout the past seven years."  
Dean Manion stressed that at the time of  
the organization of the original states the  
"wall of separation was purposely kept low  
enough to permit the state government to  
benefit by divinely revealed truth in the pcs­ 
session of legislators who recognized and be­ 
lieved it."  
"Whatever may be the prevailing modern  
view, on and off the bench, with reference  
to the secularization of government, the rec­ 
ord is clear on the point that the Founding  A  
Fathers would have none of it," according  • ^  
to Dean Manion. "Whatever may be the  
present state of the popular mind on the  
subject of the strictly secular state, it is  
certainly not the t>-pe or kind of govern­ 
ment enshrined in our American constitu­ 
tional system. A deliberate turn to godless  
government augurs more than is involved  
in such eminently practical matters as con­ 
tinued tax exemption for churches, the mod­ 
ification of our coinage, and the status of  
present laws against blasphemy and immor­ 
ality.  
"On the theoretical side such a turn takes  
us immediately to the base and foundation  
of personal rights. If these rights are divine  
endowments, as the Declaration of Inde­ 
pendence says they are, no government that  
guards them can ever be completely god­ 
less. On the contrar)', if as in the secular  
state, there is no official recognition of the  
divine, personal rights remain only so long  
as they are tolerated by government. This,  ftf  
of course is tyranny."  ^  

Lyons Hall; and Rev. John C. Burke, C.S.C., St. Edward's Hall. 
Rectors remaining in their posts of last 
f^" TICKETS: Another Housing Problem year Rev. Furstoss, C.S.C.,  arc: Bernard Badin Hall; Rev. Frederick Gassensmith, C.S.C., Breen-Phillips Hall; Rev. James Leahy, C.S.C, Cavanaugh Hall; Rev. Ed­
Number of Alumni Ordering 
ward Keller, C.S.C., Howard Hall; Rev. 
Tickets Doubled This Year Bernard McAvoy, C.S.C, Morrissey 'Hall; Rev. Peter Forrestal, C.S.C, Sorin Hall; Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C, Walsh HaH; 
Robert Cahill, '34, football ticket man­isfaction other than in this way (even and Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C, Zahm Hall. 
ager, reports that at the end of the advance though many contributors do not ask for or alumni ticket sale, July 25, MORE want tickets or privileges) ? ALUMNI TICKETS HAVE BEEN OR­
We have 14,000 seats — 15,000 and more 
DERED WITH THE TWO LIMIT THAN 

alumni. These are at home, the maximum. ilfuffliii Directory HAD BEEN ORDERED A YEAR AGO 
.\way, we seldom have nearly that number 
WITH THE FOUR LIMIT. 

Well over half the cards necessary for the effective compilation of the proposed of tickets available. 
This doubling of the number of alumni The Alumni Board at its September Alumni Directory had been returned by in­ordering tickets, and the consequent offset­meeting will consider doing away with cur­dividual alumni up to the end of August. 
ting of any anticipated margin of tickets rent contribution limitations, with a general These arc now being sorted and resorted, through the reduction of the limit, indicates stipulation that all 1948 contributors are checked and rechecked. A third—and finalthe sincerity of the Alumni Board in plan­automatically entitled to whatever privileges —mailing of similar cards will be made in 
ning a program of the "greatest good for may be possible in 1949, 1949 contributors September, according to present plans. The the greatest number." Without the 1948 privileged in 1950, etc. Would that be bet­recipients will be those alumni who have reduction of the limit, half of our qualified ter? If not, what are your suggestions? 
not returned earlier cards. 
alumni ordering tickets between July 1 and July 25 would have been victims of rejec­The new Directory, aside from its obvi­tions. As it is, even with the two limit, the Hall Rectors Named ous benefits for personal correspondence and advance sale has already carried the alumni the like, will be organized in such a way section well beyond the goal line into the Five new rectors will be in charge of stu­as to be of material benefit to alimini in a end zones of the alumni section. dent residence halls as the 1948-49 school-professional and business way. Divisions con­
year gets under way on Sept. 13 with the templated in the Directory arc: geographi­
Alumni for the most part seem to realize beginning of registration. The new rectors cal, alphabetical, class and occupational. that all of us here, who are after all fellow arc: Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C, Alumni The fourth of these, occupational, will con­alumni, have done all that we could over Hall; Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C, Dillon tribute in a particular way to new and val­
the years to adjust the shifting supply and Hall: Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C, Far­uable business associations among Notre demand of tickets. 
ley Hall; Rev. Joseph Cavanaugh, C.S.C, Dame alumni. 
This adjustment has been based on what has seemed to us a logical hierarchy of in­terests (a) the University (b) the student and (c) the alumni. 

We have never intended that football ticket privileges be a matter of pressure or a matter of discrimination. There are far For Outstanding Editorial Achievement greater motives for giving to Notre Dame, and Notre Dame men have never been .In publication of an alumni magazine 
measured from the campus by their bank books. 

Itoorb Of iHtnt 
But as the demand has increased, we have had a double problem. One is the alloca­In the 1948 Magazine Awards Competition tion of a limited number of tickets, which means some drawing of a line. What basis Sponsored by the American Alumni Council shall be used for drawing this line? The 
other part of the problem is recognizing, for alumni publications in the United States 
with one of the very few favors within the University sphere, the help of those con­

and Canada , _»,n.^ 
tributing to Notre Dame's progress. It has, 
until recently, seemed reasonable to put 

these two things together. President^ AqKrican.Alunuii Council 
But if alumni interpret the football ticket guarantee as discrimination, if they interpret Director I the privilege as pressure for contribution, and if they interpret this limited offer as meaning that "good seats" will ensue, then, even if the expressions are relatively few, we will do well to study other plans. 
We have always asked for suggestions for 
improvement. Should we do away with 

preference for contributors? If so, who The aboTe award was presented at the Ann Arbor conTention oi the American 
should get the inevitable preference? How Alumni Council on luly 15, in recognitien oi the merits oi the 1948 Manual and Guide 
can we recognize the contributor to his sat­lor City Committees and Alumni, the supplement to the April ALl]MIiUS. 
Baccalaureate Sermon for ALL Alumni 
Father Robert Sweeney, C.S.C., in His Sermon to the August, 1948, Class, Friday, August 13, Defines Our Entire 106 Years of Education 
When you leave the University of Notre Dame you will go down the avenue leading to the city of South Bend. Just before you leave the grounds of the University you will pass the venerable Notre Dame cemeter)- on your right. Near the walk you will see a large monument inscribed with the name "Coquillard." That is the grave of Alexis Coquillard. He was the son of a fur-trader known as the founder of South Bend. He was the first student at the University of Notre Dame. He finished his education here about one hundred years ago. He had received considerably less schooling than you have. 
And when he received his certificate or diploma from Notre Dame, there were not ver>' many implied obligations attached. If he had chosen to go back to the business of a furtrader, there would have been ver>' little ground for criticism. 
Now, 100 years later, you are receivin<5 a diploma or a degree from the same school. Considering the times and social conditions, you are no more highly educated than Alexis Coquillard was in his day. As you walk down the street you brush elbows with a great many more people bearing college de­grees than the people of South Bend did 100 years ago. 
But the implications of your degree to­day are dynamically different than they were a century ago. 
The first graduate of Notre Dame went out into a (world) society in which people were certain that there is a decisive differ­ence between right and wrong. You arc go­ing out into a society in which a large part of the people are not certain there is any basic difference between right and wrong. The curious anomaly is that, in general, the more highly educated they are the less cer­tain they are that there is any difference. 
It has become a major objective of many college instructors to make the student posi­tive that he can never be positive when he is doing what is right and when he is doing what is wrong. 
The degree that you receive from Notre Dame today involves a great deal more than a mere statement that you have been ex­posed to a certain amount of learning and that a certain modest percentage of it has stuck. The sheepskin that is handed to you today is as dynamic as a burning stick of dynamite. 
A degree from Notre Dame today is so­

cially radio-active. Because this Universitj' -stands for-something positive. Through TC-' cent developments in the educational world, Notre Dame's position has become revolu­
tionary, because membership in the socially elite among colleges—the college social reg­ister—involves a gentleman's code that you may not infringe the complete freedom of expression of any professor. If he is teach­ing your students that the American system of government ought to be junked, and a communistic soWet system substituted, it has become the mode among the. elite colleges to shrug it off as the exercise of the right to free thought and free speech. 
Notre Dame might have shaped its curri­culum to produce only competent profes­sional men—lawyers, doctors, clergymen— as some Universities have done. Notre Dame might have shaped its curriculum to pro­duce only competent technical men—engi­neers, architects, scientists—as some Univer­sities have done. 
But the fact is that Notre Dame has wil­fully and persisently, for more than a hun­dred years, shaped her training so that a degree does not mean merely a certain amount of knowledge or technical skill or professional competence. That is only half of what is involved. 
When you hold out your hand and the degree is placed in it, the University certi­fies that you have a certain amount of in­formation and that you have been commit­ted with the charge of acting as a leader— a moral and responsible leader—in what­ever community you enter. 
A degree from Notre Dame today places 
For God, Country, Notre Dame 
In Glory Everlasting 

Only recently has the ALUMNUS heard of the death in World War II of SGT. JOHN F. GREENE, '39. A tail gunner on 
_ a B-29, he was kill­
ed in action over Ja­
pan on July 26, 
1945. 
A resident of Ft. 
Worth, Texas, while 
he was at Notre 
Dame, Jack attend­
ed St. Edward Uni­
versity, Austin, Tex­
as, before receiving 
his degree in Com­
merce in 1939 at 
Jack Greene Notre Dame. He is 

"survived by his wife, by his parents, now of Hollywood, Calif., and by two sisters. 
you under a life-long obligation to the com­munity in which you live. There was no equal obligation on the first graduate of this School. In his time right thinking was taken for granted. Not everyone acted properly, but no one acted improperly and then tried to convince society that truth and morals were merely relative things that depended on what was customary in a community— that what was morally wrong in the cast-end of town could be morally right in the west-end of town. 
A degree from Notre Dame gives you the privilege of being a representative of Notre Dame and of what it stands for. It also gives you the obligation of exercising the leader­ship for which you have been trained. 
That leadership has two salient charac­teristics: first, it is moral: secondly, it is socially responsible. 
It is moral leadership: the criterion for judging whether you are to stand for or against a policy of your nation or your community or your business firm is not that it is smart business and will result in ma­terial benefits; the criterion is whether it is morally right. 
It is responsible leadership:—which means that you stand for or against a policy not depending on whether it will be of bene­fit to you, but whether it will benefit society. 
The schools of the nation, the business offices, the offices of local and state and Federal governments—and even the public thoroughfares—arc filled by men and wom­en who have had college education. Many of them are technically as well educated as you are. But they have not provided the definitive kind of leadership that has been so desperately needed. 
It is your obligation to stand for what is not only intelligent, but what i s right. It is your duty to provide your community with the kind of active leadership it needs. Your duty is not only to stand up and be counted, but to take the aggressive action you know is needed. 
Truth and right are not cheap baubles. They cost you dearly. They are costly to maintain. They may cost you advancement, financial betterment, social prestige. They may cost you friends and associates. 
But you have the keen advantage of knowing what is right, and what is wrong. Most of your critics will have the weakness of not knowing whether anything is right or wrong. 
The University of Notre Dame asks God to give you the strength and the vision to carry out the ideals she has cherised for her whole life and which she has tried to impart to you. 
» »

fALUMNI CLUBS 
Akron 
Regular monthly meetings are held on the first Tuesday of each month at Krakcr's Restaurant. Din­ner, 6:30. Alumni visitors arc welcome. 
The entertainment committee is making plans for another of those enjo>-ab!e summer dances for mem­bers and friends of the Akron Club. 
FRANK STEEL and his committee are investi­gating the possibility of a special train to one of the Notre Dame football games this season. Proceeds will be used for our annual scholarship fund. 
CLAUDE H. HORNING 
Baltimore 
The club has instituted an annual graduation axrard to each of the four local Catholic bo>-s* high schools. These awards were presented at graduation exer­cises this past June. The only stipulation the club has made is that the awards be for scholastic achievements rather than athletics. BROTHER MARTIN JOHN, C.F.X., is chairman of the com­mittee on awards. 
The Club held its Seiond Annual Family Picnic at Pinehurst on the Chesapeake Bay. FRANK HOCHREITER was chairman of the affair and was assisted by FRANK O'CONNELL. RE v. DAVID FOSSELMAN, C.S.C., our Universal Notre Dame Night speaker, attended with WIL­LIAM PECK, »47. BILL HERTZOG, former member of the club, now living in Lancaster. Pa., came down for the afTair. J. H. MURRAY 
Central Illinois 
At an election meeting on June 24, RICH.ARD 
T. NEESON. Snringfi-ld, was named president of the club; STEPHEN G. GRAHKER. Decatur, vice-president, and LANDO E. HOWARD. Springfield, sccretar>-treasurer. JOHN M, CARROLL, local chairman for the Notre Dame Foundation, gave a report on Foundation activities. 
Central New York 
On May 26 alumni met at the Terrace Room of Hotel Sytacuse at a luncheon welcoming ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE. who was to speak at the annual S>Tacuse Parochial League Banquet that evening. Moose was detained in South Bend and was replaced by All American GEORGE CO.X.XOR, who arrived too late for the luncheon but did a bang-up job at the banquet that evening. The Cen­tral New York Club presented its annual trophy to the Parochial Leagu- Champions. Prexy JACK i[cj\ULIFFE making the presentation. Jim Decker of the Syracuse University Athletic Department subbed for "Moose" as the luncheon speaker. 
The Annual Alumni-Student Outing was held at the Cavalry Club on June 9, with a good turnout of Club members and gtiests, despite bad weather. Activities featured the "Football Highlights of 1947" in the evening. 
Formation of the Catholic Inter-Collegiate alumni Association in Central New York was followed on June 29 by an inter-club outing at the Skaneateles Country Club. JIM HUXFORD, '21, is current president of this club. 

PAUL W. (BILL) KELLEY, JR., '42. has com­pleted F.B.I, training at Quantico, Va., and has been assigned in various parts of the Southwestern states. Bill is the third local club member to bolster J. Edgar Hoover's forces. JIM BARRETT, '40, has been on the West Coast with the F.B.I, for several months and PATRICK D. "BABE" PUTNAM, '41, is serving with the bureau in Chicago. 
DANIEL A. KELLEY 
Club Luncheons 
CENTRAL OHIO (Columbua) — Uni­versity Club—every Monday 
CHICAGO — Deutsch's Bestaurant 28 N. Dearborn St.—every third Wednesday 
DES MOINES—Savoy Hotel—every first Friday 
INDIANAPOLIS—Canary Cottage— every Tuesday 
MILWAUKEE — Maryland Hotel — every Thursday 
ST. LOUIS —Victorian Club, 3719 Washington Ave.—every Monday 
TULSA—Mayo Hotel — every third Friday 
VIRGINIA (Richmond)—Ewarts Cafe­teria—every second Wednesday 
Other Club Meetinss 
AKRON — Kralcer's Old Heidelberg Restaiurant—every first Tuesday 
CINCINNATI — Hotel Alms — every second Tuesday (6:30 p. m.) 
FLORIDA (Miami)—Downtown Club every first Monday (5:30 p.m.) 
NEW lERSEY—Essex House. New­ark—every first Monday 
NEW YORK—Waldorf-Astoria Hotel every second Wednesday (8 pjn.) 

Cincinnati 
On June 10. the club held its annual stag picnic at Martz's Grove in Ross, Ky. About 65 members and their guests attended. A championship' Softball game between Leonard's Lions and Geohegan's Groaners ended after ten frantic innings with the score 10-9. 10-9 that is, in favor of the team for which you were rooting. After a cool, refreshing swim, a delicious steak dinner was ser\'cd. HARRY 
J. GILLIGAN. JR., was chairman for the day. BILL iHDDENDORF 
Dallas 
After a summer lull, the club mapped an active fall program under the leadership of President ED HAGG.-\R and the new officers installed at the last meeting in the spring. They include DAN FOLEY, SAM WING and JIM CROW, \-ice-presidents; GEORGE BECKER, treasurer; JOHN MORAN. secretary. 
First on the agenda was a "Beachcomber Party" on Aug. 23 at White Rock Lake. The program called for a get-together at the Dallas Sailing Club before embarking for a moonlight sail on a chartered boat. 
Also on the future list for the club arc a get-together during the football season, a Christmas formal and an N.D. party when the Notre Dame basketball team comes to Dallas to play S.M.U. in the dedicatory game of the new cowt in the Auto­mobile Building now under construction in Fair Piirk. 
CHARLES LOHR was married June 5 to Afaiian Jeannette Nicoud in Holy Trinity Church. Charley Is in the auditing department of Skillern's Drug Stores. 
The club acquired a prospective member (class of 1970) when Mike Moran was born June 16. Being club secretary, the proud father immediately pro­posed htm for membership. First baby sitter for the new arrival was Jane Bellamy, wife of DR. LLOYD BELLAMY, who volunteered for the job. 
JI&I SWIFT, who is busy these days as state chair­man of the Notre Dame Foundation, was recendy appointed general counsel for the Southwestern Life Insurance Co. 
M. E. WALTER has been named editor of the "Houston Chronicle" after ha^-in^ been connected with that paper since 1922. 
ED HAGGAR has been appointed president of the Haggar. Pants Co., succeeding his father, J. M. Haggar, who has become chairman of the board. 
J. M. HAGGAR, JR., was named vice-president and production manager of the firm's plants in Dallas, Greenville, Waxafaashie and McKinney. 
BOB GROGAN, '37, who is with the Dale W. Moore Oil Co. Inc., Houston, was in Dallas during the spring and called up to say hello. 
G«orge Connor, '48. captain of the 1947 football team, was the pcincipal speaker at the banqnet of the Parochial League of Syracuse. N. Y.. on May IZ He is shown here with John E. McAuUffe (left), presi­dent of the Central New Yoric Oub. and Daniel A. Kelley. secretarr-treasurer of the dub. 
HENRY NEUHOFF was elected president of the 
National Meat Packers Association last spring at the 
organization's convention in Chicago. Henr>' is 
president of Neuhoff Brothers, Dallas. 
LEW MURPHY, '25, is national service officer for 
the American Disabled Veterans and the Veterans 
Administration at Love Field. TTirough the Alumni 
Office M-e learned recently that his son, DR. BOB, 

who took his pre-mcdical work at Notre Dame, has 
returned to Dallas to intern. 
JACK SCHROETER is making his headquarters 

in Dallas while travelling through the Southwest as 
district manager for Lenox china. GORDON 
HANAU is another club member who keeps on the 
go. Gordon is assistant insurance manager for the 
SiKT Railroad and guess how he gets around. 
HUGH FARRELL recently obsen.cd the first anni­

\-ersar>- of a rapidly growing trade publication, ''Mor­
ticians of the Southwest" of which he is the co-
founder and co-publisher. 
We would like to lake note of the following item 

which appeared in the Dallas NEWS. It shows the 
high regard which many people have for Notre 
Dame even in this section which has relatively feu-
Catholics. When the president of Baylor University, 
a Baptist institution, resigned and the choice of a 
successor u-as being discussed, one of the Univer­
sity's trustees declared that *'BayIor University should 
be to the Baptists what Notre Dame is to the 
Catholics." JOHN J. MOR.-\N 
Denver 
The dub obser\ed Universal X.D. night with a 

dinner dance at the Park Lane Hotel. A special 
guest at this dinner was Mike Golden, youthful 
infantile paralysis victim who gained nation-wide 
publicity through his correspondence with JOHNNY 
LUJACK. Through the courtesy of Gene O'Fallon 
of Mutual station KFEL. the club heard by direct 
wire from Philadelphia, the main address by FATHER CAVANAUGH. New officers elected by the club this year are: FRANCIS BROWN, president; DR. EDWARD 
DELEHANTY, Jr., \ice-president; ART GREG­ORY. trrasun:r: and TOM CURRIGAN. secretar>-. VINCE BORYLA,, star of the Denver Nuggets basketball team, continued his fine play in the National A.A.U. basketball tournament here, and was honored by being chosen on the official A-.A.­
U. All-American team. His play also earned him a coveted position on the United States 01>-mpic basketball squad. 
FATHER ROBERT H. SWEENEY, executive assistant to the president of the University, paid a recent \isit to our mile-high city, and while here addressed meetings of the Foundation Committee and of the club regarding the importance and status of the current Foundation drive. 
CHARLES HASKELL, chairman of the club's Scholarship Committee reports that the committee is selecting the scholanhip winner for the coming schoolyear. The field of candidates is particularly fine this ^-ear. The committee is highly indebted to FATHER THORNTON, Registrar of the Uni­vcrsitj', for his assistance relative to the scholarship. 
AL FRANTZ, is a Democratic candidate for district judge. JOE MEYERS was designated as a candidate for district attorney on the Republican ticket for the coming primary election but recently withdrew his name. TO M CURRIGAN 
Detroit 
The annual golf party was run at the Bonnie Brook Golf Club on July 15, with much golf, more food and a \*ast store of prizes, not to mention the largest crowd in the history- of such parties. DAN HENRY was the able chairman in charge. He attracted the boys by one of the finest pieces of <Iirect mail advertising yet devised by a Notre Dame club. BILL DOOLEY was present, a scout from the home course. 
Duluth-Superior 
On June 28, a meeting was scheduled by John Cackley, of the Universit>- staff, for 8 P.M. at the Hotel Duluth. Those attending: FOGERTYS, both BOB and DICK, ED KXTTH, BILL COTTER, BETHUNE, PHIL HOENE, JIM KEOUGH. 
Preparing for its recent golf party, the Indianapolis Club had Mayor Al Feeney instruct John Corey and George O'Connor 
(kneeling) and Fran Carey (standing) on 
some of the finer points of the game. 
John Cackley gave us an interesting talk on the method.^, etc., of organization of a local club, and presented considerable information on the Founda­tion. Agreed: formation of the Duluth-Superior Notre Dame Club. Elected: COTTER, president; KUTH, vice-president; KEOUGH, scc-trcas. 
After a short discussion of the prescribed constitu­tion, by-laws and so forth, we enjoyed some excel­lent N.D. football pictures. AH hands then ad­journed to a bistro for sustenance. 
JIM KEOUGH I 
Ft. Wayne 
.ARTIE HOFF^L•^N esublished himself as the No. 1 tennis player in Fort Wayne b>' winning the dty championship in the men's singles di\'ision. 
LEO KLIER has joined the Zollner Pistons basketball team. Fort Wayne entr>- in the Basket­ball .Asociation of America. Leo was formerly with the Indianapolis Kautsky team in the National Basketball League and led that team in scoring last year. TO M O'REILLY 
Hawaii 
THOMAS W. FLYN.N, '35, 5317 Opihi St.» Hono­lulu, is' the new president of the club, and Tom reports that the organization was delighted to enter­tain two diflerent groups of Notre Dame midship­men, members of the Naxal R.O.T.C., who stopped by in July while on training cruises. 
The club was pleased with the students. In Tom's words: *'I was so proud of them, and delighted with them, that you'd think I'd personally sired each and every* one of them. .. . It brought home c\'en more \ividly to me, what I've alwa>'s really known, that Notre Dame puts out the finest young men known to this civilization." 
FATHER ED FFTZGERALD, C.S.C. an Army chaplain now stationed at Hickam Field, is an active member of the club and assuted particularly with the entertainment of the Na\7 groups. They were accompanied by FATHER THEODORE HES­BURGH, C.S.C., from the Uniwrsity as faculty advisor. 
Officers of the Hawaii Club in addition to TO M FLYNN are BILL HANIFIN, vice-president, PALMER AMUNDSEN, secretary and BILL MOTTZ, treasurer. 
Hiawatha Land 
One of the outstanding meetings in the history of the club was held at the woodland lodge of HENRY LAUERMAN, '23, in Menominee County, Mich., on June 27. 
Guest of honor was FATHER JOHN CAVA­NAUGH, who with J. ARTHUR HALEY, drove 140 miles from Eagle River, Wis., to enjoy a steak dinner with the members. 
Father Cav'anaugh discussed informally the Mediae­\*al Institute, and the moral responsibility of the Uni­versity and its alumni in the struggle against material­ism. 
A revitalized program was approved by the mem­bership to include a Communion breakfast as well as the traditional meeting on Universal Notre Dame night. 
The club officers, President M. N. SMITH, '88, \icc-prcsident, M. J. KHOURY, secretary, MICH­AEL D. O'HARA and treasurer, E. PANICHERI, will meet periodically to outline further club activi­ties. MICHAEL D. O'HARA 
Indianapolis 
The club staged it's annual Golf Tournament and Banquet on July 15 at the Highland Golf and Coun­try Club. JOHN CAREY, chairman, with the assist­ance of JOHN R. WELCH, TOM WELCH, CLYDE BOWERS, JOHN HARRINGTON, FRAN CAREY and TO M BULGER, made this year's outing one of the most successful ever held. HUGH BURNS, Notre Dame athletic trainer, as speaker of the evening, gave his impression of football possibilities this coming fall. 
Special guests in attendance included the Rt. Rev. Paul C. Schulte, archbishop of Indianapolis, REV. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C., MAYOR AL FEENEY, and BOB C.-\HILL, Notre Dame ticket manager. 
JOHN KILEY carried off top honors in the Golf Tournament with a 76, thereby having his name the first inscribed on the new trophy donated by P. 
C. REILLY 
G. DON SULLIVAN, local proxy, has announced that PAT FISHER will be in charge of the Notre Dame football excursions next fall. Special trains will be run to the Purdue, Nav>*, Northwestern and Southern Caifornia games. Anyone living in the vicinity of Indianapolis wishing to book passage on any of these trains, get in touch with Pat at 616 Indiana Trust Building, Indianapolis 4. 
Kentucky 
We held our annual outing at Cedarstohme, the 
J. C. Kirchdorfer Estate, July 24. The outing was held jointly with the Xavier University alumni of Louisville, vrith 114 members and students of both clubs on hand, 65 of these being from Notre Dame. An annual softball trophy vt-as inaugurated with a student and an alumni team from each university competing. Both Notre Dame teams won to clinch possession of the trophy for the ensuing year. 
Plans are formulated to run a train trip from Louisville to South Bend for both the Purdue and Northwestern games. The trains will leave Louis­ville Saturday morning and return immediately following each game. On each train the club will sponsor a special car of orphans from the various Louisville orphanages. 
The club will celebrate its twenty-fifth anniversary on Sept. 20 with a Silver Jubilee Dinner in the Crystal Ball Room at the Brown Hotel. FATHER JOHN a-WAN.^UGH, C.S.C., president, will be the guest of honor and principal speaker. The general chairman is JOHN COSTELLO. 
LAURENCE J. AUBREY 

La Crosse 
A stag picnic on July 26 and a summer party on Aug. 25 were the features of the summer program of the club, according to word sent on July 28 by FRED FUNK, president. Ahead during the re­mainder of 1948 are a club smoker on Oct. 18, the Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, in St. Joseph's Cathedral on Dec. 5, and a formal dance in the Stoddard Hotel on Dec. 28. 
^ Three Notre Dame Alumni Are State Deputies of Knights of Columbus 
B. Conroy Scoggins, '24 Daniel P. Nolan. '23 Jolm T. Bocap, '30 
Illustrative of the increasing leadership of Notre Dame men man of the supreme convention of the K. of C , held in Houston in August. Daniel P. Nolan, '23, (center) Latrobe, Pa., was elect­
in Catholic affairs is the fact three alumni are now serving as ed the Pennsylvania K. of C. leader at the Scranton state conven­state deputies of the Knights of Columbus in three of the most tion last spring and John T. Rocap, '30, Indianapolis, was similarly important areas in the countr)-—^Texas, Pennsylvania and Indi­
honored at the Evansville convention of the Indiana jurisdiction. ana. R. Conroy Scoggins, '24, (left) Houston, is in fact serving Thomas G. Medland, '30, Logansport was elected Indiana state 
his third term as state deputy in Texas and he was general chair­treasurer for the order at the same time. 
Los Angeles 
The Club had its annual family picnic on June 27 at Pop's Willow Lake. GENE CALHOUM, secretary-treasurer, was in charge of arrangements. Assisting him were VERXOX RICKARD, club president;; JOHN M. MILLER, ED CUNNING­HAM, ED and TOM ASHE. LOU BERARDI, CHARLIE GASS. JIM McCABE, PAT SHEA, LEO WARD and JOHN CARBERRY. 
An Old Timers Night followed on Aug. 17 at St. Mary Magdalen Hall. The advance announcement promised plenty of movies and plenty of beer, pop and sandwiches. 
The annual all-out club party the night before the S. C. game is of course the biggest thing coming up. Watch for announcements about It. 
Michigan City 
REV. LOUIS J. THORNTON, C.S.C., registrar, FRANK LEAHY and ED KRAUSE were among the guests as the club conducted its first annual golf party and dinner on July 28. HUGH BURNS, athletic trainer at Notre Dame, is president of the club and handled the general arrangements for the golf day. He welcomed a total of 103 attendants. 
Mohawk Valley 
Following a regular meeting on July I and another one on July 15, the club on July 21 honored JOHNN'Y MAYO, slugging outfielder for the Utica Blue Sox in the Eastern League. It was Notre Dame and Johnny Mayo Night at the local ball park and John received a traveling bag, a portable radio and a war bond from the club. ED SWEENEY was chairman of the committee in charge, assisted by FRANCIS HACKETT, VINCENT FLETCHER, BART O'SHEA, BOB LACKEY and LOUIS CLARK. 
Johnny was earlier the guest of the club at a dinner in Mike Guirl's Restaurant on July 10. 
Nebraska 
JOHN E. FI.NNIG.\N, '43, Lincoln, was elected first president of itie Notre Dame Club of Nebraska at an oi^anization meeting in the Blackstone Hotel, Omaha, on July 10. EUGENE F. MILBOURN, Omaha, was named vice-president and JOHN L. BEAURIVAGE. Lincoln, secretary-treasurer. 
Trustees of the new club are: GERALD McGIN-
LEY, Ogallala. JAMES C. CURR.AN, York, ^L\RK 
J. WALSH. Beatrice, ADRLAN E. MICEK, Fre­mont. EDWARD J. S.\NDERS, ALAN A. WEIS­BECKER, J. J. REGAN, Jr., T. S. HALPIN, HOMER F. HUGHES and GENE MILBOURN, all of Omaha, JOHN FINNIGAN and JOHN BEAURIVAGE. 
Plans were made for a pre-game smoker to be held in the Cornhusker Hotel, Lincoln, on Oct. 13, the night before the Nebraska-N.D. game. 
New York City 
Flans arc made for a special train trip for alumni, their wives and friends to Baltimore for the Navy game on Oct. 30. The train will leave New York the morning of the game and return the same night. The fare is $10 per person. 
The annual retreat, which had been set aside during the war years, was r\'ieved this year. Chair­man ED BECK^L\N reports that 20 members attended the retreat, which was conducted at Mount Manresa, Staten Island, in June. 
Work on the Club Directory is progressing and COLMAN O'SHAUGHNESSY and his committee expect to ha\-e it ready for publication soon. 
BOB HAMILTON, chairman of the Trust Fund Committee, announced the donation by the Trust Fund of $1,000 to the Notre Dame Foundation. He also reported that the Trust Fund this year gave two scholarships to the University to boys from the New York area. They are William A. O'Brien, Huntington, N. Y., and Harold' A. Hax^kottc, Elmhurst, N. Y. 
JOHN BALFE, chairman of the Placement Com­mittee, has accomplished excellent results during the past year in aiding alumni to obtain permanent positions and has also helped many students to obtain summer employment. 
WALTER A. DONNELLY 

North Florida 
JOHN F. LANAHAN was chosen president of the new Notre Dame Club of North Florida at an organization meeting on July 1 at the Roose%'eIt Hotel in JacksonviUe. EDWARD H. FISHWICK is the first \-ice-president and GEO. P. COYLE, the secreten-treasurcr. LESTER FOLEY, TED TWO­MEY and WALTER SHELLEY arc on the board of directors. 
A second meeting was held at the Timuquana Country Club, Jackson\ille, on Aug. 4. 
Oklahoma City 
The club met for luncheon on June 15 honoring FATHER ROBERT H. SWEENEY, CS.C. Father Sweeney explained the plans of the Notre Dante Foundation. 
The local members present were: President HAS­KELL ASKEW, JAMES E. BURKE, BOB BEItR>, DR. ALBERT DREACHEN, RODNEY F. JANE­WAY, T. W. EASON, JIM DOLAN, CHARLES 
B. McFARLAND, BOB McFARLAND, W. H. STUEVE and JOHN B. MARTIN. We also had several prt»pective students. 
JOHN B. MARTIN 

Attending the meeting of the new North Florida Qub on Aug. 4 were, left to xighL in the front row, Fred Bahaim. George P. Coyle, Jacksonville city chairman for the Foundation: Lester Foley. Foundation governor for Florida, and John Lanahan. club inresident In the rear. Gerald Johnston. Dick Pepper. Robert W. Coyle. Dick Broder, Gerald Dobyns. William Abood. Edward Duncan. Walter Haecker. Dove Bilger. and Wade Noda. 
Panama 
President BILL SHERIDAN sends word that the Club met at the Hotel Tivoli on Universa: Notre Dame Night, April 5. Members and ihclr uives were entertained at dinner. 
The club was happy to participate in the oidina­tion and first Mass on June 5 and 6, in St Mar>-'s Church, Balboa, of REV. PAUL CARLOS RAN­KIN, C.S.C, first Canal Zone youth to enter the Holy Cross priesthood and the first priest ever or­dained in the Canal Zone. Father Rankin was ordained by lllost Rev, Francis Beckman, CM. , archbishop of Panama. He took his undenrraduate work at Wittenberg College, recivcd his Master's degree at Northwestern University and did further graduate work at Notre Dame. 
MARK McGR.ATH, C.S.C., also from Panama, is entering his final year of theolog>' at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C , and will be ready for ordination next year. 
Peoria 
The club held its monthly meeting on July i3 at the Lud Restaurant, with President DON SMITH presiding. Twenty-one were present. The club formed definite plans and committees for the annual ffiotball trip, which will be to the Xorthwe<tern game at Notre Dame. JIM KELLY is chairman of this event. Proceeds will go to Spalding Institute of Peoria for its new g>-m about to be built. 
A social meeting was held Aug. 10—a regular "Brownson Hall Smoker,*' as termed by Rf\Ll'H JOHNSTON. 
At a meeting on June I, the club adopted i i-t of by-laws, heard \'arious committee reports and elected a board of directors. Elected to the board were: ALEX SLOAN, REV. RICHARD O'BRIEN. RALPH JOHNSTON, DON S.MITH. ED SNEl.L and TOM CONNOR. A film, "Building a Better World'* was shown. 
On May 26 the club honored one of its members. Manager LEO SCHRALL, '29, of the Peoria Red Wings, local cntr>' in the All-Amcrican girb' soft­ball league, presenting him with a shaving kit in a special ceremony. The club also awarded two pairs of tickets to the Northwestern football game as gate prizes. ED SNELL and GEORGE PRESTON were the committee in chat^e of the event. 
Sitell and Preston also directed the club picnic on June 13. Feature here was a baseball game between the students and alumni, with the former victorious, 
17-16. The pitching of JOHN SCHERER, *43, stood 
out for the losers. 
LOUIS E. AMERG, JR. 

Rhode Island and Boston 
President JOHN V. MORAN made arrangements for the first meeting of the summer at the Lt. A. Vernon Macauley Post. This fine old Boston resi­dence provided an ideal setting for our *'Get Acquainted" meeting to which we had invited the recent graduates as well as the present under­graduates. 
DAN Quinlan reported on behalf of the Placement Committee and we had some interesting comments from FR.\NK H.-\RON and DICK SCHMIDT. There was a general discussion about raising a scholarship fund and President Moran's proposal that it be tied in with a Na\*y game trip was well received. 
We wish to welcome into our local alumni club the recent graduates who attended the meeting: JOSEPH F. CIANCIOLO, '48, J.AMES E. GOR­MAN, '48, J. ROBERT CROWLEY, '48, RICHARD 
S. HERLTHY, '48. JOHN F. NOLAN, '43 and JOHN J. TROY, '47. 
The neu'S of greatist interest in our section is the announcement by the Congregation of Holy Cross of the opening of Stonehill College at North Easton, Mass. • We were particularly pleased upon hearing that FATHER GEORGE P. BENAGLL\, C.S.C., was to be the first president of the college. His many friends in New England wish him success in this gri^t new venture. 
JACK N-YE DUFFEY 

R. /. and S.E. Mass. 
This past summer we Rhode Islanders gathered on several occasions, but the highlight was the con­secration of our clul>chaplain, the Most Rewrend Russell Joseph McVinney, as fifth bishop of Prtni­dencc Diocese on July 14. Bishop McVinney was a Notre Dame student in 1935-'36. 
Among N.D. alumni on hand for the occasion were: LT. GOV. JOHN S. McKIERNAN, '34, occupying a seat in the honored guest section, JOHN V. BRADY, '34, and the following ushers— CLEM GRIMES, ex. '29, JOHN FITZGERALD, fat. '34, RUSS HUNT, '39, LEO McALOON, ex. '30, JOHN MCLAUGHLIN, '34, ANDY MCMAHON, '35, JOHN McINTYRE, '40, GENE MOREAU, '32, and CONNIE SHACKETT, ex. '36. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus  
(For further details, see the article on another  
page in this issue.).  
The week-end of June 16-18 found fifty alumni  
and other friends of Notre Dame making a retreat  
at Our Lady of Holy Cross Seminary at North  
Eastoa, Mass. JOHN McLAUGHLLN made ar­ 
rangements and FATHER GLEASON, C.S.C,  
former New York City's policeman, conducted.  
The summer dance at the Rhode Island Yacht  
Club June 12 was attended by 100 couples. Through  
the efforts of Chairman JOHNNY McINTYRE the  
crowd enjoj-cd entertainment that was still the sub­ 
ject of conversation whene\'er a couple of us met  
especially during the talking periods of the retreat  
weekend.  
JOHNNY FITZGERALD, of Pawtucket, has  
thrown his hat into the political ring as a candidate  
for alderman on the Democratic ticket. His tiad  
was mayor in 1900. ANDY McMAHON  
Rochester, N. Y.  
The club had its first family picnic scheduled for  
.Aug. 8 at the Island Cottage Hotel picnic grove.  
The announcement sounded like an all-out day. No  
report in yet.  
San Diego  
Our first social activity was held the evening of  
July 31 in the form of a dinner dance. The dinner  4  
dance was held at the Officer's Club at the United  
States Naral Air Sution at North Island. Our  
Vice-President, LIEUT. GENERAL FRANCIS P.  
MULCAHY, was host to 24 members and their  
wi\-es or girl friends. W. S. D.AY  
St. Joseph Valley  
A party (ladies invited and urged to attend) on  
Sept. 24, the night before the Purdue game, will  
open the club's fall season in the Indiana Club,  
South Bend. LARRY DANBOM is the Notre Dame  
chairman in charge.  
Stag smokers will be held on the other Friday  
nights preceding home games. RUSS ARNDT will  
be chairman of the Michigan State gathering on  
Oct. 8. FRAN MESSICK will handle the North­ 
western party on Nov. 12 and BOB HOLMES  
will be in charge of the Washington event on Nov.  
26.  
JOHN PLOUFF, secretan­ of the club, will be  
chairman of the annual Universal Notre Dame  
Communion Sunday obsen*ance on Dec. 5, and  
FLOYD SEARER has accepted the general chair­ 
manship of the annual Football Testimonial Banquet  
on Jan. 10.  
St. Louis  
Our annual Summer Picnic at Corley's Farm was  
\Try well attended and a good time was had by all.  
One of the thrills of a life-time occurred when one  
of our members (name omitted for obvious reasons)  
^'buzzed" the baseball field and dropped cards to  
the kiddies. The old timers won a very* tightly  
played softball game by a close margin 11-3. High­ 
lights were home runs by DUTCH WRAPE and  
STEVE RICHTARSIC.  
Our first Club Electing for several months was  
held August 2 at Hyde Park Rathskellar. Attendance  
was excellent and a lot of enthusiasm exhibited. Plans  
wi-ere made for the annual scholarship drive, which  
is one of our most important activities. JACK  
GRIFFIN offered to be chairman of the drive and  
presented a very ambitious program for conducting  
WILLI.AM B. RILEY was the winner of the club's  
first scholarship to Notre Dame, the funds for which  
we hax'c been gathering for several years, and he  
will be on the campus this fall.  
Our club is very happy to announce the appoint­ 
ment of REV. WILLIAM H. REEVES as chaplain  
to succeed the bte REV. WILLLAM RYAN,, S.J.  
Father Rec\'es attended Notre Dame between 1916  
and 1918, and was ordained in 1924 at the North  ^  
American College in Rome.  fl  
WALTER GEORGE  

Tri City 
The club had a boat ride on the Mississippi River on July 26 at which there were present approximately forty people including alumni and their wives, and a few additional friends. 
This is the second >-ear that the group has had this Boat Ride, and each time it was very successful. Refreshments were served on the boat. 
JERRY ARNOLD 

Tulsa 
The club meets monthly at a luncheon at the Mayo Hotel, where we mix club business with our fbh. (The mcsting is the third Friday of the month). We entertained FATHER SWEENEY at a bufTet dinner in July and were entertained by him. The members continue to settle down: CHARLES McNAMARA and CHARLES McMAHON each pur­chased a new home, and President CARL SENGER is building one. The population abo increases: Sara Lucien ^fcMahon arrived July 16; Gerard Kev­in Donov'an came May 23. He'll be Notre Dame, Class of '69—1 hope! 
JACK SHERRIN, '48, has returned to Tulsa and is afHltated with Warren Petroleum Company. GER.\RD K. DONOVAN 
Tucson 
Notes from Arizona: FRANK GEDDES, '37, has been made auditor of the Arizona Home Supply Co., a department store with home office here and branches tn four outlying towns. TIM KING, '37, has been promoted to manager of the Tucson Laundry and Dr>* Cleaners, Inc. 
FRANCIS "BILL" ROGERS, ex. '17. has been appointed resident manager of a new local office of Benton M. Lee & Co., a New York stock brokerage firm. PAUL SCHRICHTE, ex. '33, now has the ser^'ice agenc>' for Roto Rooter, sewer cleaning machine. TED WITZ. ex. '29, is now-associated with the Old Pueblo Savings and Loan Association. 
The following arc officers of the club, elected at the monthly meeting on June 5: TED WITZ, president; TIM KING, vice-president; BILL ROG­ERS, 5ecrctar>-; and JOHN KING, treasurer. Tim represented Notre Dame at the inauguration of a new president at the University of Arizona. 
PAUL J. DUFAUD 
Washington^ D. C. 

The club's Annual Retreat was held at the Holy Cross College June 25 to 27 with FATHER LAW­RENCE P. SULLIVA-N. C.S.C., *30, serving as re­treat Master. P. J. CONWAY, was chairman and was assisted by CLINT WATSON. JOE FITZ­MAURICE and J. WALTER GREER. 
Continuing its plan for more family participa­tion in club activities, a summer outing was held Aug. 28, at the nearby Bethesda Recreational Cen­ter. Chairman ED. O'BRIEN and his committee of JOE REGAN, JOHN O'HANLON and ANDY AUTH, all of class of '34, and BILL WHALEN. '37^ had an interesting and varied program planned for the day. Softball games, badminton, horse­shoes, and volley ball were played, and there were races and activities for children of alt ages. Pro­spective freshmen and their girl friends and parents were invited. 
On Oct. 29 at the Hall of Nations Ballroom, 
Hotel Washington, the club will play host to the 
numerous Notre Dame alumni and their Iri-nds 
who will be in this area for the Na\->- gam; at 
Baltimore Stadium the following day. 
Chairman PAUL C. TULLY and his committee 
of CHARLES M. EGAN. GEORGE HOWARD, 
MATTHEW H. MERKLE, WALTER SHORT, 
and DENNIS DINEEN are lining up an inter­
esting program of speakers, entertainment and 
dancing. Many celebrities are expected to aitend. 
Hotel reserv-ations at special prices may be made 
through the club for the Hotel Continental, over­
looking the Capitol, and also for the Hamilton 
Hotel. 
The club has arranged to ha\-c the Banquet Room 
of the Carlton Hotel available as a meeting place 
for alumni and their friends on Friday afternoon. 

Bepreseating oliunni of Catholic collogos. th««o mon suporvisod tho s^otiiig of ZOOO persons at the consecration of Bishop BnssoU J. Mcinan«T in Providonco. Neira Dame men are, from the left dockwiso in fin! row. John J. McLonghHn* first Cor­nelius T. Shadcett second, I*eo B. McAloon. third, and Androw J. McMohon, soTonth. In the rear row: BusseU J. Hunt second, John J. ntzgerald. third, and Eugene J. Moroou, sxth. 
Oct. 29. R;frwhm-;nts will be araibble. 
Tours of the Capitol are being arranged for Saturday prior to leaving for the game. Bus and train transportation to Baltimore ta'ies 45 to 50 minutes. 
Alumni and their fri=nds interested in the rally or hotel' accomodations shauld make Fe:er\'ations early by writing to The Notre Dame Club oi Washington, D. C , 1740 K Street, N. W. Wash­ington, D. C. 
On Aug. 1st CL.\RENCE J. McCABE, '22, d:ed at Arlington Hospital. Clarence was io regu­lar attendance at club meetings and all of us e.xtend our deep sympathy to his family in their ben:a\'e­ment. 
VAT. DEALE. '39. after a loni; stay in Washing­ton leaves us to take on new duties with R.C.A. in Camden. N. J. Val took a ver^* active part in club affairs during his stay here. 
New members arriving in town recently arc DR. 
F. J. MURRAY, '36, and JOHN GUNTHER. 
.•\I1 N.D. men arriving in the Washington area can secure information on the members and Club activities bv calling the Club phone. Republic nei3. THOM.^ J. FLYNN 
Western Pennsylvania 
Th£ club held ils annual golf party dinner at the Stanton Heights Country Club on June 2U. 
The gathering was arranged by Chairman BILL SIXSXIITH and JACK XIOXTEVERDE and CMIL LINK. 
BUCK Mc-VRDLE of Pittsburgh and HEKa MYERS of McKecsport turned in the best golf scores of the afternoon and were awarded prizes of a sport shirt and golf ballj respectively. 
Following the dinner President VIXCE BURKE led a lively discussion on the future activities of the club. BOB CHA.MBERLAIN 
West Virginia 
As this is written, w*e are preparing for our annual summer outing, to take place Aug. 21. .AL KESS­ING is the chairman. 
One of our members, JOHN GRANT W. TOM­KINS, died a few weeks ago and VINCE REISH­MAN'S father also died recently. The c:Iub express­es its sympathy and offers prayers. 
GEORGE THOMPSON 

Western Washington 
REV. ROBERT H. SWEENEY. C.S.C., iraia the University and ART McCLARNXY, head basketball and baseball coach at the University of Washington, were honored guests and speakers as the cluif had a dinner-dance at the Ranier Golf Club on julv 6. EMMETT LENIHAN was toastmaster. Sixiy-eigfat were present. 
Other speakers were: RABBI ALBERT PLOTKIN, ^2, recently named assistant rabbi at Temple De Hirsch in Seattle, and FATHER MASSART, C.S.C., a Bengal missionary who was visiting his brother in the city. 
Notre Dame midshipmen, members of the Nai'al R.O.T.C., were in Seattle on their traimng cruise fiver the July 4 weekend and were entertained at a picnic arranged by club members, headed by JOHN ENGLISH, president. Twenty-five students and their dates enjoyed Shady Beach on Lake Washington. 
Through the efforts of JERRY KANE, club secre­tary, and his able secretary, the club ha:» a com­prehensive new roster in booklet form. Copies were distributed at the July 6 dinner-dance. ED TOBIN made the cover design. 
Wisconsin Fox River Valley 
The club's annual picnic was run off at Stroebe's Island picnic ground, with an excellent turnout, food to match and ample foaming inspiration. Featured was a Softball game in which DON CASEY'S gallant slide for home was the highlight attraction. JOHN CHRISTM.AN, ofGdal scorer, gave up early. 
Alumni present, in addition, to Casey and Christ-man, included JOE FIEWEGER JIM KRAUS, BOB BERNARD. DICK BROEREN, FRED CHRIST­MAN, JOHN BRUNKE, JACK DEMPSEY, CHUCK FISS, FRED HEINRTTZ, DICK KELLY, BOB LANGLOIS CHUCK LEMONS JOE NEU­FELDT, PAT MARTIN, GUS ZUEHLKE and JOHN ZWICKER. Present N.D. students altencSng were: FETE GREEN, LARRY and BOB GILUNG, JOE SCHRANK, RUSS SKALL and Ba L STELP­FLUG. 
Club members meet for lunch every Fint Friday at Alex's Resuuiant, Menasha. Every one invited and welcome. . . . N.D. men in this area who are not on cMir mailing list ar« asked to cnmamnicate with me (secntary) at 327 N. Commercial St., Neenah, or with President BILL FIEWEGER. 419 Naymut St., Menasha. AL MUENCH 
e alumnt 
Engagements 
Miss SyU-ia XichoU and ANTHON'Y BENE­DOSSO, '41. 
Miss Doris Behrndt and ARTHUR R. CLARK, JR., '48. 
Miss Ella Jane Pesta and JAMES M. CON­STANTLV, '44. 

Miss Rose Marie Botos and DON.ALD J. FOLEY, •ex. '46. 
Miss Grace Frances Re>-noIds and THOM.-kS G. GILLESPIE, JR., "39. 
Miss Anne Gregorj- and JOHN" L. HOECK, '48. 
Miss Nancj- Beth .N>-ikos and HENRY A. MEERS, ex. '50. 
Miss Eleanor Lambert and JAMES E. MON.A­HAN, '47. 
Miss Sylvia Latkotvski and D.\NIEL J. TOMCIK, '44. 

Miss Anna Mary O'Connor and RICHARD E. WHITE, '46. 
Marriages 

Miss .^ma Jane Curtis, daughter of Daniel C. Curtis, '17, and JOSEPH D. -ANDERSON, '50, South Bend, Aug. 14. 
Miss Gladys Terry Winer and DOMINIC F. BOETTO, '44, Chicago, June 26. 
Miss Dorothy Ritter and JOHN F. C.-\VAN.AUGH, '48, Owosso, Mich., June 21. 
Miss Catherine Claire Fink and EDWARD JAMES DAHILL, '37, Fort Wayne, Ind., June 23. 
Miss Bula Sigmon and LOUIS L. DA PRA, '39, Washington, D. C, July 31. 
Miss Pauline Hoover and F. GERARD FEENEY, '43, Notre Dame, Aug. 21. 
Miss Irene DeFauw and RICHARD A. FRIE.N'D, '49, Notre Dame, June 19. 
Miss Ruth Mary Shirk and GERALD F. GASS, JR., '48, South Bend, June 19. 
Miss Irene Marie Hupka and ARTHUR W. GOULET, ex. '46, South Bend, June 12. 
Miss Man- Lou Pearson and JOH.N H. GILAIF, '46, Mankato, Minn., June 12. 
Miss June Loretta Johnston and VICTOR GUTSCHEN'RITTER, '48, Buckley, 111., July 10. 
Miss Florence Rita Czarnecki and WALTER L. JAWORSKI, '45, South Bend, June 12. 
Miss Agnes Haney and J. H. JOHNSTON, JR., '47, South Bend, July 24. 
Miss Catherine Leahy Moury and CHARLES S. LA CUGXA, former graduate student, Seattle, Wash., Aug. 19. 
Miss Cecelia Cullinan and EUGENE G. LAMB, ex. '48, South Bend, June 12. 
Miss Mar>' Elizabeth Weiss and LESUE H. LAXGE, ex. '41, South Bend, June 26. 
Miss Patricia Ann Schierbrock and JOHN C. LUJACK, '48, Davenport, la., June 26. 
Miss Betty Ann Nagy and JOHX F. MABEV, '48, South Bend, July 6. 
Miss Man- Jo O'Connor and WILLIAM F. MORROW, '42, Miami Beach, Fla., June 2. 
Miss Margaret Ma n Woodhouse and RAYMOND 

J. MURRAY, JR., '46, Grand Rapids, Mich., June 5. 
Miss Rita Marie Brickner and JOHN J. MYERS, '47, Delphos, O., July 14. 
Miss Betty Marie Ullen and DONALD E. .\UNER, ex. '44, South Bend, June 26. 
Miss Delores Antoinette Garis and JOHN PARK PREST^VICH, '47, Inglewood, Calif., June 5. 
}kliss Mart' Elizabeth Dolphin and DR. MAURICE 
J. REGAN, '31, Wilkes Barre, Pa., June 12. 
Miss Betty Lou Callier and CAPT. JOHN F. RIORDAN, '45, Blythe, Calif., June 26. 
Miss Man' Catherine Simpson and ROBERT F. SIMMONS, '35, Rochester, N. Y., June 22. 
Miss Billie Lou Cemey, daughter of William J. Ccrney, '25, and .\LAN R. THOMAS, ex. '48, South Bend, June 12. 
Miss ilene Welber and MARVIN L. TOMBER, '46, South Bend, June 26. 
Miss Ruth Irene Heitz and ROBERT M. TYLER, '29, Johnson County, Kans., May 24. 
Miss Mary Collins and DR. CLARENCE V. WARD, JR., '45, Kansas City, Mo., July 19. 
Miss Man-rita Mulvihill and GEORGE H. WEISS, '47, East Grand Rapids, Mich., March 30. 
Miss Betty Jane Auble and EDGAR G. WIRTZ, '48," Notre Dame, Aug. 14. 
Born fo 
Dr. and Mrs. VITTORIO G. ARCADI, '35, a son, Thomas Victor, Aug. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM F. BERNBROCK, '35, a son, John William, July 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. ANDREW C. BOTTI, '33, a son, John Joseph, April 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK E. CANE, '36, a daughter, Susan Patricia, June 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD G. BRYDGES, '44, a daughter, Suzanne, Aug. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES P. COLLERAN, JR., '35, a son, Dennis Paul, May 29. 
Mr. and Mis. J. JOSEPH CONLEY, '31, a daughter, Jean Marie, Aug. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM T. DALY, '41, a son, July 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. GERARD K. DONOVAN, '40, a son, Gerard Kevin, May 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. EARL R. EXGLERT,Robert Hannon, June 9.   '44,  a  son,  
Mr. and Mrs. BERNARDdaughter, June 23.   J. FEENEY,  '39,  a  
Mr. and Mis. GEORGE J. FOSS, '35, a daughter, Barbara Ann, July 24.  
Mr. and Mis. FREDERICKdaughter, Barbara Ann, July 19.   C. CAST,  '37,  a  
Mr.Ralph  and Mrs. RALPH A. GERRA, Alexander, Jr., July 29.   '41,  a  son,  
Dr. and Mrs. DOUGLAS J. GIORGIO,son, Thomas Francis, Feb. 18.   '34,  a  
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT C. GRIS.'\N-TI,son, Robert Charles, June 17.   '40,  a  
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM R. HAWES,daughter, Ruth Ellen, July 13.  '41,  a  ^  
Mr. andJuly U.   Mrs.  LEONARD  M. HESS,  '25, a  son,  X  '  
Mr. and Mt5. BERNARD J. KEFFLER,son, David Michael, March 31.   '37,  a  
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN T. KELEHER,daughter, Susan Man, July 23.   '47,  a  
Mr. and Mrs. JOHNJohn Joseph, Aug. 4.   P. KING,  ex.  '34,  a  son,  
Mr. and Mrs. TI.MOTHYdaughter, Sally Louise, July 28.   R. KING,  '37,  a  
Mr. and Mrs. WALTER M. LANGFORD,daughter, Elizabeth Marie, July 31.   '30,  a  
Mr. and Mis. CHARLESson, Charles John, June 3.   T. LATTI.MER,  '41, a  
Mr. and' Mrs. F. JAYBrian Douglas, Feb. 24.   JlL'\RTIN,  '33,  a  son,  
Mr. and Mis. ANDREWdaughter, Louise, June 22.   J. McMAHON,  '35,  a  
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES L. McMAHON, JR., '42, a daughter, Sara Lucien, July 16.Mr. and Mrs. DAVID T. MESKILL, '39, a son,Timothy David, Dec. 26. 1947.  ^ 1P  -? >  
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. MORAN,Michael Joseph, June 16.   '36,  a  son,  
Mr. andAug. 3.   Mrs.  LEO  F. MURPHY,  '48,  a  son,  
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD L. 0'HARA,.'35,daughter, Afaureen Merle, July 3.  a  
Mr. and Mrs. LOUIS A. RADELET,daughter, Ann Elizabeth, July 28.   '39,  a  
Mr. and Mrs. FLOYD RICHARDS, '42, a daught­er. Donna Caroline, May 15.  
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. RICHARDSON,a daughter, Joanne Kay, Aug. 13.   '41,  
Mr. and Mis. JOHNMichael, July 12.   J. RIEDL, '43, a son,  John  
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN O.Edward Michael, July 15.   ROBINSON, '47, a son,  
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLESdaughter. Sheila Ann, May 30.  M. RYAN,  '33,  a  ^ \  

Mr. and Mn. LEWIS SHIDAKER, ex. '30, a son, June 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDMUND J. SLACK, '38, a <]aughter, Kathleen Ann, May 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE R. SLEVIN, '47, a daughter, Aug. 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. CH.\RLES H. STREATER, '39, a 5on, James Hayden, April 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT T. TIM.MERMAN, '43. a son, Allan Theodore, Jan. 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. RALPH J. TREXLER, '41, a son, Ralph John Jr., Aug. 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD F. VOORDE, ex. '36, a daughter, June 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD A. WASILEWSK.I, "42, a daughter, July 13. 
Deaths 
FRANK P. KONZEX, *87, died July 19 in South Bend at the age of 79. 
Mr. Konzen at the time of his death u-as a re­tired employee of the Studebaker corporation in South Bend. He lea\-es his wife, two daughters, three grandchildren, and nine great grandchildren. 
HENRY L. MONARCH, '93, died on ^fay 14 in lUchmond, Ind. He was born in Owensboro, Ky., on May II, 1872. 
The funeral Mass was offered in St. Andrew*s Church in Richmond, and Mr. Monarch was burl*.:d in the Earlham cemetery*. 
PERCIVAL E. TAPRELL, *04, died on June 25 at his home in DeLand, Fla., according to word received from his wife. 
Only recently has the Alumnt Office heard of the death on Dec. I, 1947, of JOSE FREDERIC MUN­ECAS, Ha\-ana, a pharmaceutical chemistry graduate in 1916. He died suddenly following a heart attack. Word of his death came recently from his brother, 
B. A. Munecas. M6, also of Ha\-ana. 
As noted briefly in an earlier issue of the "Alum­nus," EDGAR F. MORAN, M7, Tulsa, Okla., died on MarcJi 8 in Tulsa after a brief illness. He is sur­\'ivcd by his wife, two sons, John and Robert, both Notre Dame students, and by five brothers and a sister. Three of his brothers are William B., *24, John R., *25, and Joseph A., '32. 
Head of E. F. Moran, Inc., a drilling contracting company which he organized in 1920, Mr. Moran had previously been associated with the Texas Co. and the Cosden OH Corp., now the Mid-Continent Petroleum Corp. He was born in Lima, O., gradu­ated from Central High School in Tulsa and, after his graduation from Notre Dame, worked in the Cushtng oil fields and at Okemah, Okla. 
ENRIQUE ROSSELOT, C.E., *20, general mana­ger of the Chile Telephone Co. in Santiago, died on July 31 according to brief word received at the University in August. 
Mr. Rosselot was governor in Chile for the Notre Dame Foundation. In that capacity and in in­numerable other vfoys he demonstrated his warm de­votion for Notre Dame and for the Holy Cross Community. His interest and active aid were particularly valuable when the Community in recent years established St. George's College in Santiago. 
Mr. Rosselot was happy to entertain Harry G. Hogan, president of the Alumni Association, when the latter, with his wife, v-isited Santiago early in 1947. 

sented by Thomas L. McKevitt, president, and by Dr. James Flynn and Geoi^e Haithcock. (Further information about Clarence appeais in the 1922 news in this issue.) 
WILLIAM J. CONLEY, JR., *23, died June 3 in the U. S. Marine Hospital, in Baltimore, Md. He was buried at St. Mary's Cemetery in his **honie­town" of Dennison, O., following a Mass celebrated by his brother. Rev. Charies F. Conley. The V.F.W. conducted services at the gra\*e. 
Surviving Bill are, his parents, four sisters, and three brothers. One of his brothers Is Edvrard R. Conley, '30. 
NORMAN N. FELTES, '24, died on June 2') in his home in Winnetka, III., Chicago suburb, following a short illness from virus pneumonia. He is sur­vived by his wife, who is the daughter of the late Michael J. McGarry, '94, of Los Angeles, and by two sons and a daughter, as well as by his parents of South Bend and two brothers and three sisters. 
Following his graduation from Notre Dame, Norm received his Master's degree at the Harvard Gradu­ate School of Business and in 1927 became associated with the Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago. He was elected vice-president of the bank In 1944. 
Close to Notre Dame all his life. Norm gave generously of his time and ability to varied Notin Dame activities. He was active in the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, serving at one time as its treasurer, and was always happy to assist Notre Dame men In need of employment aid. 
JEAN HALE McKILLIP, '27, Long Beach, CaU*., died suddenly recently, according to word recel\-ed in the Alumni Office. He had gone to St. Mary's hospital, Long Beach, for a checkup due to a heart condition and died there. 
In California for 18 years, although he was a native of Humphries, Nebr., Jean had resided in Long Beach for six >-ear5 and was superintendent of public assistance for Los Angeles County. 
Surviving him are his mother and one sister who is the wife of F. James Na\*arre, '30, Monroe, Mich. 
JOHN PATRICK BURRALL, '32, of Robinson, III., died at the Brooks hospital in Robinson on July 4 after a prolonged illness resulting from a brain tumor. He had been employed by the Ohio Oil Co. refinery. 
Surviving John are his wife, five children, his mother, sister, and two brothers. 
After a long illness PHIDELL THOMAS OS­BORN, '33, died on May 7 at the age of 39 at the home of his parents In Wolcott, N. Y. 
Born in Ontario, May 15, 1909, Phidell was representative in Iowa for the Riggs Optical Co. until his illness forced his retirement late In 1947. Sur\'ivlng him, are his wife, parents, twrln sons, and two brothers, Stewart, '34 and Dr. John E., ex. '40. 
The "Alumnus" has only recently heard of the death, some time back, of two members of the class of 34: FRANCIS L. FREELY died on Jan. 19, 1938, as the result of an accident, and FRANK D. V.AN ALLEN died on Sept. I, 1946, also as the result of an accident. 
JOHN DE BIASIO, ex. 34, Elizabeth, N. J., was shot to death on Aug. 10 as he sat in an auto­mobile in front of his home. He was a recreation board ph>sical instructor In Elizabeth. 
JOHN R. FELTES, South Bend, a member for a short time of the class of *43 at Notre Dame, died in Florida on July 19 as the result of an illness from uremic poisoning. He was the brother of Norman N. Feltes, '24, who died in Winnetka, HI., on June 20. 
Jack was graduated from the University of Miami after he left Notre Dame. He is survived by his parents and by two brothers and three sisters. 
JOHN F. GUENTNER, JR., *48, died at the 

The *'Almnnns** extends unccre sympathiet to PAUL H. ANDERSON, '38, on the death of his father; to AUSTIN BOYLE, '31, on the death of hb mother; to JOSEPH DIENHART, ex. '27, on the death of his son; to REDMAN DUGGAN, '38, and JOHN L., '47, on the death of their lather; to REV. GEORGE C. HAGER, C.S.C., '35. and EDWARD C. HAGER, '38, on the death of their father; to NEIL C. HURLEY, JR., '32, on the death of his father; to ROBERT J. SINON, '42, on the death of his father; to DONALD C. TIEDE­MANN, '41, on the death of his father. 
Personals 
Before 1900 
Rev. John A. McNamara, St. Joseph 
Mineral Baths, Mt. Clemens, Mich. 

NEAL H. EWING, '84, father of LT. JOSEPH 
H. EWING, '32, who is the author of the history of the 29th Division in World War II, now resides in RoseUe, X. J. 
DAVID FRINDIVILLE, ex. '84 (minim.), sent word that his brother, WILLIAU, who was also here in the days of the minims, died two years ago. Both boys were alIo%ved, as were all the minims, to lay a brick when St. Edward's hall was being built. Mr. Prindiville still claims Kalispell, Mont, as his home. 
HUGH C. MITCHELL, '95, is now retired and resides in Washington, D. C. 
1900-04 
Robert £. Proctor, Monger BIdg., Elkhart, Ind. 

WILUAM F. BRAUCHLER, ex. '04 who resides in Canton, O., recently \isited at his Alma Mater with hb family. 
1905-09 
Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C, Presbytery, Notre Dame, Ind. 
MICHAEL L. FANSLER, '05, In­dianapolis, has generously contributed to the law library at Notre Dame a group of law books, particularly one set of the American Digest System and one set of Ruling Case Law. 

Atty. GEORGE W. SPREXGER, '08, is represent­ing the Shelton family in the recent Shelton case in Peoria, HI., according to a story in the "Chicago Tribune." 
1910 

Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, St. Catherine's Church, 3443 E. 93rd St., Cleveland 4, O. 
EDWIN LISTER, '10, spends his leisure painting and cartooning when his eyes permit. He exteniis an invitation to any of his friends to drop in for a visit at hu lodge. Blue Jay, P.O., Calif., Box 595. 
We are \-ery sorry Indeed to hear of the serious fire darning a one-story frame building houui^ the foi^e shop and hammer and blacksmith shop of the Schmitt Steel Co., BILL SCHMITT, '10, being the owner. 
191 I 

Veterans Hospital in Aspinwall, Pa., in July. Fred L. Steers, 105 S. LaSalle St, 
CLARENCE J. McCABE, '22, assistant to the An army staff sergeant at Camp Campbell, Ky., director of the press department of the National during World War II, he is siurvlved by his wife, Chicago 3, 111. Catholic Welfare Conference, Washington, D. C , 
parents, and one brother. died on Aug. 1 in the Arlington Hospital, Arlington, BERT E. DANIELS, civil engineer, resides at Va., after a heart atUck the previous day. He was JAMES E. WATSON, veteran political figure from Cedar Grove, N. J. buried in North Platte, Nebr., his birthplace. A card from FRED STEERS in Ei^land said that 
Indiana who died in Washington on July 29, re­"the Olympics are bdi^ put on in- excellent man-At a solemn Mass offered in Washington on the ceived an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from net^three NJ). hoys on the team." 
burial <^y, the local Notre Dame club was repre­Notre Dame in 1914. 
1912 
Benedict J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
An excerpt from a letter written to Prof. F. W. Kenick, head of the Architecture Department, by 
B. J. KAISER, Pittsburgh: *"I am enclosing a print of the exterior of Georgetown University Hospital, Washington, D. C. It is a 400-bed general hospital, costing §4,000,000. It was started in December, 1945, and completed in July, 1947. The credit in the caption should b= given to' Kaiser, Xcal & Reid, and not to me personally." 
Ben sent" the print to Professor Kcrx'Ick in con­nection with the 50lh anniversar>- observance of the Architecture Department on May 3. 
19 13 
Paul R. Byrne, University Librar\-, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Major AL FEENEY, first Catholic mayor of the city of Indianapolis, is carr>Tng on a crusade against **objectionablc" comic books. 
The editors of the ".Mumnus" regret that a 1913 item in the May-June issue, concerning the daughter of HARRY KIRK, w ^ liadly presented. 
The inspiring fact is that the third in Harr>'s family of nine children joined the religious life when his daughter, Frances Teresa, on .-Xprii 17 became a Discalced Carmelite, the first of that community from the new archdiocese of Washington. D.C. Most Rev. John M. McXamara. vicar general of the archdiocese, presided at the clothing ceremony in the Carmel of St. Joseph and St. .Anne in Phila­delphia. The new nun's name in religion is Sister Teresa of the Immaculate Heart of Mar>-. 
One of Sister Teresa's sisters is Sister Kathleen of the Holy Family who has been a Discalced Carmelite for many ycaw. A brother, DOM DANIEL KIRK, former Notre Dame student, now of St. /Vnslcm's Prior>', Washington, D. C , was sub-deacon of the Mass in Philadelphia on April 17. 
1914 
Ira W. Hurley, 231 S. LaSallc St., Chicago, III. 

JAMES MILLETT, real estate broker, now re­sides in HolI>-wood, Calif., at'"5522 Sierra Vista. 
19 15 
James E. Sanford, 509 Cherrx- St., Winnetka, III. 

Father PATRICK T. QUI.VLAN continues his extraordinary* work in his minion parish of St. Ann's in Kingstree, So. C. Having visited 618 families recently he found only one person who was a Catholic. 
19 16 
Grover F. Miller, 612 Wisconsin Ave., Racine, Wis. 

WILLIAM SCHEID is a paper lester with the Watcrv'Iict Paper Co. in \Vau:r\'h'ct, Mich. 
VINCENT C. SCULLY is an investment dealer in Chicago, with ofliocs at 231 S. LaSalle St. He resides in Highland Park, 111., at 314 Cavell .-\ve. 
19 17 
Bernard J. Veil, 206 E. Tutt St., South Bend, Ind. 

ARTHUR J. "DUTCH" BERGMAN, sports Di­rector for station WRC. has accepted nomination as manager of non-military events at the District of Columbia National Guard Armorj-. He was selected unanimously for the ten thousand-dollar per year job and o\'erseeing the proposed expansion of Armor>' seating cap3cit>*. 
JIMMY PHELAN, new coach of the Los Angeles 
loyce Aimee. New York accordionist, 

singer and radio star, and Bill Castellini. 
'22, are shown in front oi the cabin in 
which the parents of Abraham Lincoln 
were married on lune 12. 180S. in Horrods­
burg, Ky. The cabin was given to the 
Harrodsburg Historical Society in 1911 by 
its owners, Walter L. Clements, '14. of 
South Bend, and his father, William A. 
Clements. 
The cabin is on the grounds of Pioneer Memorial State Park, Harrodsburg, near Herrington Lake, Burgin, Kv. This picttue was taken as part of a campaign to popu­larize Herrington Lake as a vacation spoL 
Dons, opened the training season at Ventura, Calif., early in July. 
LEO VOGEL, Notre Dame track star belore the other war, visited with his former teammate, ED MEEH.-\N, recently in South Bend. Leo was en-route back to his home in Pittsburgh after getting a checkup at the Mayo Clinic, sa>^ Jim Costin in the South Bend '*Tribune.'' 
1920 
Leo B. Ward, 458 Spring St., Los Angeles 3, Calif. 

Father JAMES CONNERTON, C.S.C., president of King's College, was made head of the newly established vice-province for the Congregation, with headquarters at Wilkes-Barre. 
Father P.-VTRICK A. M.AGUIRE. pastor of Our Lady of Lourdcs church. Salt Lake City, Utah, has been appointed a Domestic Prelate of the household of His Holiness Pope Pius XH. This recognition carries with it the title of Rt. Rev. Msgr. 
192 I 
Dan W. Duffy, 1101 R.C.A. BIdg., Cleveland 14, O. 

PAUL BERGER, is head of the tax department at Lockheed Aircraft in the Los Angeles area and is an active and cooperative member of the Los Ange­les Club. 
CHARLIE "Orchesra" DAVIS was chairman of the committee to direct the centenary celebration in Oswego, N, Y., this summer. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 39 Cambridge St., Rochester 7, N. Y. 

From KID ASHE: 
God has .summoned another of our classmates— 
CLARENCE McCABE who died Aug. 1, in Arling­
ton, Va., after a heart attack on the day previous. 
Clarence had been with the Press Department of the 
N.C.W.C. for the past 20 >-ears, and at the time of his death was editorial assistant to the director of that department. Clarence was overseas in World War I, and again in 1925 to ser\'e on the Paris edition of the **New York Herald Tribune.** In this countr}' he sen'ed on staffs of newspapers in Champaign, III., Omaha. Nebr., and Denver, Colo., before starting with N.C.W.C. He held degrees from Catholic University and Columbia University in addition to his degree from Notre Dame, and belonged to the District of Columbia Bar Association. He was buried in North Platte, Nebr. 
Those of us who were in attendance at our 25th Reunion, last >'ear, will thank God that we were able to have that last visit with our beloved class­mate who graced the affair with his friendly smile and friendly spirit. 
We extend our deep sympathy to his widow, daughter, son and other loving relatives. Address communications to Mrs. Clarence McCabc, c-o N.C.­
W.C, 1312 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W., Washing­ton, D. C. 
Public Relations ED BAILEY is now affiliated in Philadelphia with the Hutchins Advertising Co., 3701 N. Broad St., and is working with the Philco account for this agenc>-. Ed e.\pects to move his family from Baltimore to Philadelphia as soon as possible. That should make D.AN YOUNG ver>­happy. 
BILL CASTELLINI, who showed 1922 spirit plus in hobbling with the aid of a cane around' our 25th reunion gatherings a year ago, visited Notre Dame for a few da\-s in the early August. 
1922 visitors to Commencement this vear included CHET WTNNE. TOM McCABE and HE.\RTLY "HUNK" ANDERSON. 
The CHARLIE HIRSCHBUHLS were visitors to the San Francisco area in late May to see daughter Marguerite receive her degree at the Dominican College, San Rafael, Calif. 
Relying wholly upon rumors, we hear that GENE KENNEDY and Rose-Marie Arena, both of Los Angeles, were married in early summer. Latter is a grand-daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. .Antonio Arena, early California settlers. She attended Mount St. Mary's College. We sincerely hope the report a true, and we take our perch way out on the end of the limb by extending our congratulations and best wishes to the Kennedy's. 
Congratulations to JOHN HUETHER for his recent fine promotion in the General Electric family as described and spotlighted in the last issue of the "Alumnus." 
Mrs. E. BRADLEY BAILEY, has had lurr first book, "Your First—My Dear," recently published. Mrs. Bailey has sent a copy to Princess Elizabeth in England who is au-aiting the birth of her first child. The Baile>'s are the parents of II living children. Tlie book is filled with authoritative ad­vice, especially for the benefit of mothers expecting the first offspring. It is published, at $1.50, by Dorrance & Co., Drexel BIdg., Philadelphia. 
1923 

Paul H. Castner, 1305 W. Ariington Ave. St. Paul, Minn. 
XAVIER GURZA now resides in Torreon Coah, Mexico, his address being P.O. Box 90. ED KELLY supplied this information. 
Father JOSEPH R. McALLISTER, CS.C , is the newly appointed Cathedral rector of St. Marj-'s Cathedral in Austin, Texas. 
The University- of Alabama has named its new 90-acre athletic field for FRANK THOMAS, di­rector of athletics, in honor of his IS-j-ear record as football coach at the school. 
FOUND: Pair of glasses. Lyons Hall, reunion week­end. Yours? Advise the Alumni Office. 
Volume 25, No. 5, Sept.-Oct., 1948 
1924 
^ .James F. Hayes, 4 Lyons Place, Larchmont, N. Y. 
E. LOUIS CHAUSSEE. formerly of Detroit, has recently moved to Long Beach, Calif. He extends a welcome to a lot of people to come out and enjoy the California sun. 
A card came from JIM HAYES from EI Paso, Texas, where he was on a two-week business trip. Sa>*s he didn't plan the trip in the right season— the temperature had been hitting 102 each day. Promised ta get started right away on plans for the 25-year reunion next year. No word yet, though. Needle him. 
Father JOSEPH M. RICK, C.S.C., received word that his father, George A. Rick. Houston, Texas, had received knighthood in the Order of St. Gregory" the Great from His Holiness Pope Pius XII for giving his son and two daughters to the Church, and for his continuous support of missionary* work. Father Joe has been a missionary in India for many years. 
GENE VIAL sends many thanks for the kindnesses shown his sister and her family when they visited the campus. He is now residing In Santiago, Chile. 
1925 
John P. Hurley, The Toledo Parlor Furniture Co., Toledo, O. 
ELMER LAYDEX has lately joinid the sales de­partment of the General American Transportation Corp. MIKE XEEDHAM is with the Xeedham Motor Corp. in Corpus Christ!, Tex. 
JOHX W. ROACH, Madison, is director of the beverage and cigarette Ta.x Division for the stale of Wisconsin. FR.\XCIS WARGIX is a postal super­visor in the main post olHce in Chicago. 
1926 
Victor F. Lemmer, Box 661, Ironwood, Mich. 
JOHN Q. ADAMS, New York City, was elected president of the Manhattan Refrigerating Co. and the Union Terminal Coal Storage Co., Inc. He succeeds his brother, T. A. Adams, Jr., who re­signed. 
EDWARD A. F.ALLON writes: "Last Sunday, June 13, was the 22nd anniversary of the Class of '26. Whenever the 13th has fallen on a Sunday, DOC GELSON generally has a few fellows at his house. This time was no exception. I hope I am not forgetting anyone but here goes for my best recollection of those in attendance: BERNIE WIN­GERTER. WALTER HOUGHTON, TOM SHERI­DAN, EDDIE DUGGA.V. TOM FARRELL, EDDIE BURKE, DICK. PURCELL. DAN O'NEILL, MONK WALDRON, HAROLD ROBERTSON, DOC and myself. A good time was had by all." 
DR. HAROLD W. CVREY, In Lancaster, Wis., *'is doing a great job In his community and is loved and admired by all who come in contact with him," accoiding to one of the Alumni Office's best scouts. 
DICK DONNELLY was appointed d'rcctor of industrial relations with the Consolidated Vultee Air­craft Corp., Fort Worth, Tex., and at the latest report was doing some house hunting in order to move his wife and seven children to Fort Worth from San Diego. Dick had been assistant Industrial relations director for Consolidated in San Diego. His oldest, Jim, is a sophomore in college. 
JIM GLYNN now Is the district manager for Thatcher Glass Co., In Indianapolis. He has super­vision over the territories which Include offices In Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky and Tennessee. 
J. ARTHUR HALEY, director of public relations for the University, has been named chairman of the 42nd annual Christmas seal sale for St. Joseph county. 
JAMES A. RONAN announces the remoral of his office to 77 W. Washington St., Chicago 2. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Basil Rauch, '29 

Basil Rauch, '29, assistant professor of histor>' in Barnard College, Columbia Uni­versity, is the author of the book, American Interest in Cuba, 1848-1855, published last spring by the Columbia University Press. The volume deals with the character of American interest in Cuba following the Mexican War and with the powerful move­ment for Cuban annexation which char­acterized the period. 
Professor Rauch is the brother of Pro­fessor Rufus Rauch, professor of English at Notre Dame. 
1927 

Joseph M. Boland, Radio Station WSBT, South Bendy Ind. 
PAUL BUTLER South Bend attorner, is the chatmian of the Third district dcmoczatic orgaaiza­tion, and as such took a leadii^ part in the demo­cratic state convention. 
BILL COYNE, also an attorney, is now %nth the Atomic Energy Commission, Office of Chicago TH­rected Operations. He has recently moved his family to 221 Hunter Ave., Joliet, HI., from Washington, 
D. C. 
\fARK NEVILS has been appointed rdaticMis manner of the Curtiss-Wright Corp. with bfead­quarters in the company's offices in New Vork,.Gfy at 30 Rockefeller plaza. , --• ­
The first editor of the Notre Dame "Lawyer;" CLARENCE RUDDY, Aurora, HI., spoke' to' the senior lawTcrs at the annual Hoynes law banquet on May 13. The occasion was the 25tfa anoTvcisary of the "Law>-er." 
SCRAPIRON YOUNG Is now the head athletic trainer at the University of San Francisco wheic JOE KUHARICH is head coach.. 
1928 
Louis F. BucMey, 617 Lincoln Way West, Mishawaka, Ind. 

From LOU BUCKLEY: 
JOE MORRISSEY and bis. two boys took 40 exceptionally good pictures of *28 men at the xe­union. Joe has agreed to furnish them in lots of 10 pictures for $1.00 or M-00 for the whole set of 40 pictures, mailed anywhere in the U.S.A. If you order less than 40, Joe promises to select those most interesting to you. Any proSt will go to the Foundation Fund. Please ord;r directly from Joe Morrissey at 2800 Madison Road. Cincin­nati. 
Knowing that those who were unable to attend the reunion would want more infcrmalion than x gave you in the last issue of the **AIuninus," 1 am reporting reactions from some of the class­mates who attended. 
From BERNIE G.ARBER, chairman, Publidly Committee: 
"D.WE GIBSON and PAT V.\RRAVETO came the greatest distance to the reunion. . . . TOM LAVELLE for least change • in 20 years. . . . McINTYRE, FARRELL, and GARBER, alter Journalist lunch in South Bend asked by gas sta-
Memories of the Silrer AnniTenarr Retmien! Lynch cmd Rohxbach lead wilfa their right as the '23 party gets linder way on lone 4 in the LaSolle HoleL 
28 
tion attendant what ball team ih>^- were ^^'ith . . . those green caps (an excellent idea, said FATliER RAYMOND MURRAY) . . . among tiioie missed: JACK LAVELLEj for wit not weight. . . . McMAHOX explaining to old pals that he lived in Pittsburgh, associated with Mellon Institute in Air Hygiene Foundation, being interrupted by near - sighted classmate: 'Why you must know JOHN McMAHON—he works there, loo.* 
'*Thc great turnout Sunday mom Mass for de­ceased after a late evening , . . cver-youthiui FATHER GALLIGAN . . . never-changing REV. GEORGE MARR .. . luckv *South Bend Tribune,' gettini; GEORGE SCHEUER on staff , . . GEO. COURY expounding art of operating Laundromats, profitably. . . . FRA.VK CREADC»N'.S fine golf-daters who didn't appear at reunion. . . . BOB FOGERTY who makes clock stand still . . . bald­ies who couldn't stand sun at baseball gnme. . . . MORRISSEY and RXJPPhE, ever working photo-bugs, how about seeing your pix? ... . *old' '28ers, who couldn't climb three flights . . . not quite enough time to see ever>'body . . the BIO campus . . . unchanged South Bend.'' 
From JOHN McM.\HON, who suggested ihe '28 cap idea: 
*'It was. I am sure, the best reunion that an> class e\-er held; '28 added the 'new look' to Notre Dame reunions. The green caps stocd out like barns afire and certainly proclaimed '28ers to one another. Let's make tbat official insignia for fumrc reunions. One sidelight which impressed me was how much some of the fellows had changed, whtle others looked little different from way back when. It was frustrating not to have had more time lO chat at length uilh different indinduals," 
From TURK MEINERT, who was responsible lor rounding up the A.B. men: 
'*May I add my personal thanks to all of the members of the Class of '28 who made our Re­union the greatest our -Alma Mater has ever wit­nessed. Hard work and dcvotiori to the Univenity and our class were the prime movers in getting so many of our bo>-s back for that particular week­end. You can be assured that those three days will live in my and many of the other boj-s* minds for many years to come- Let us all hope and pray that, with Our Blessed Mother's help, that when our '25th* reunion comes aroun.l we will have just as many, if not more, of our famous class back." 
From BILL JONES: 
"It would take a book for me to write all that I heard and saw at our reunion. To be able to sec all the old classmates again after 20 years was a great pleasure. To be able to have a drink at any lime in a hall at Notre Dame \%-as a miracle and that makes WILLARD W.-\GNER a miracle worker. The reunion itself, to my way of thinking, could not have been better. I enjoyed ever>' minute of it and I am deeply grateful lo you. WILLARD KAGNER and the other members of the com­mittees who made the whole affair so successful. Except for less hair and more stomachs, I saw little change in the class of '28. 
"Others whose presence added much to the pleas­ure and success of the reunion, were those members of the clerg>' who participated with us in one way or the other. I u-as particularly pleased to sec F.ATHER PAT HAGGERTY who shepherded me in my freshman and sophomore years in Walsh Hall and later in Morrissey Hall. It was particularly good to see him when I knew that he would not be ^-anking me out of bed for morning prayer. It was also grand to see FATHER GALLAGAN and have him say the Mass for our deceased members. FATHER MURPHY u-as gracious in coming to our fish frj- and, of course, FATHER .-^NDY MUL­RANEY'S journej-ing to the reunion made us all happy. The cnly classmates who really let me down wer« the three NLD.'s. TOBIN. BRADLEY and VICTORYN. After all, they should have been able to do something for my whispering voice in order to make it possible for me to return lo my wife without explaining how I lost the voice. 
"And speaking of voices, that '28 Glee Club was never as good in da>-s gone by as the>- were at the deceased members' Mass on the Sunday of our reunion. It was amazing to me how they could group themselves together on such short notice and do such a splendid job. Much credit is to be gi\-en to FRANK CREADON for this. Another 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMHUS 
Most Rev. Bussell J. McVinney 

Most Rev. Russell J. McVinney, D.D., Notre Dame student in 1935-36 and chap­lain of the Notre Dame Club of Rhode Island and Southeastern Massachusetts, was consecrated fifth bishop of Providence in the Cathedral of SS Peter and Paul, Providence, on July 14. 
Most Rev. Amieto Giovanni Cicognani, D.D., Apostolic Delegate to the United 
. States, was the consecrator of Bishop Mc­Vinney, and the co-consecrators were Most Rev. Henry* J. O'Brien, D.D., bishop of Hartford, Conn., and Most Rev. James L. Connolly, D.D., auxiliary' bishop of Fall River, Mass. Most Rev. Richard J. Cushing, D.D., archbishop of Boston, preached the sermon. 
Numerous archbishops, bishops, abbots and monsignori, scores of priests and the highest dignitaries of the state and the com­munity were in the cathedral to witness the consecration of Bishop McVinney, the first native son of Rhode Island to be bishop of Providence. Members of the local Notre Dame club were among the group who ser\'ed as ushers for the occasion. 
Prior to his consecration. Bishop McVin­ney ser\'ed as rector of Our Lady of Provi­dence Seminary. As bishop, he is the leader of 427,000 Catholics of the diocese of Providence. 
splendid idea was the '28 cap. Not only did .that headdress make us stand out but it gave much pleasure to a lot of kids after the reunion was over- Of course, I could go on speaking of the grand visits I had with the individual members of the clais and reciting humorous incidents of the weekend^ but those are the thoughts that I cherish and I shall keep them to m\-self and enjoy them for years to come.'* 
From BILL DOOLEY, who worked closely with all of our committees: 
''In many ways, it was the finest class reunion ever held here. The attendance was fine, the spirit was excellent and the class events were out­standing. I must tell you especially that I was terrifically impressed by the Class Mass on Sunday morning. When we reach the point where a bunch 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

of men 20 j-ears out of college can get together and sing a high Mass at their reunion, we can be proud. That certainly was a new and admirable feature of the Alumni Reunion this year. And the class caps, introduced by '28 this year, were so well thought of that other classes will doubtless u-ant them, or some­thing similarly distinctive, in other years." 
From that old wteran of reunions, JIM ARM­STRONG: 
"The class of 1928 contributed a new high in fine class reunions. I know that in large measure this was due to the terrific job which WILLARD WAGNER did. I understand that Wag took to his bed immediately after the reunion, waiting for the University and \-arious * members of the clas.s and their wives to file suit. Like all geniuses, I don't think he really had any idea of what a great job he did and of how thoroughly it was appreciated. The old guard particularly seemed impressed by the spint and the color, and I think that the young guard was considerably upset by the march which '28 stole with the caps, I think that the life injected by the reunion will carr>- the class well along to the t*venly-fifth." 
From DICK PHELAN: "As the first semblance of life again begins to suiyc through both body and mind. I am sure that everyone's primar>- thought is of the wonder­ful job which WILLARD WAGNER did in arrang­ing the class reunion which unquestionably was the most howling success that hit the campus for many da>-s. It is only natural, therefore, that I wish to join the many others in thanking you for your efforts and expressing my appreciation for a most wonderful lime." 
From FRANK CREADON, who \*-as responsible for the Glee Club participation in the Mass: 
"I'm still thinking about that swell week-end oi our *28 reunion, and although 1 do not wish the time to go by too rapidly, I'm looking forward to 1953. 
"Inasmuch as I have continued my singing smce leaving Notre Dame, I was very happy to have been a part of the group that sang the Slass on Sunday morning. The other Glee Club members present were: TOM WALSH, JOE GRIFFIN, BOB KIR­BY, ED BRENNAN. DR. MARCUS FARRELL, JOHN DAVIS, JOE LANGTON, FRANK HOL­DAMPF, FATHER ANDY MULREANEY, VINCE CARNEY, BILL DOOLEY, *26, FRANK HET­REED, '29, FRED WAGNER, '29, TOM HART, BILL .MAHIN, BILL KIRWAN, BOB K.\OX, and m>*self. We fellou-s who were members of the Glee Club in our da>'s at Notre Dame owe much to that organization, when we consider the wonder­ful trips we made to all corners of the U.S.A. It was a special thrill to get the gang together in Washington Hall that Saturday afternoon and have JOE CASAS.ANTA put us through the old routine again. 
"To the fellows who could not make the re­union, wc want them to know that we talked about them and expressed the desire that even more will be on hand to sing our 25lh Anniversar>' Mass in 1953." 
As you know, FATHER ANDY MULREANEY, CS.C., directed the singing during the Mass, and VINCE CAR.\EY played the organ. 
From GEORGE SCHEUER, who arranged the journalists' get-together: 
"Journalists of the Class of 1928 held a re­union luncheon Saturday noon, June 4, at the Town Hall restaurant in South Bend. 
"Among the '28ers present were: DAVE GIBSON, JOHN F. McMAHON, BERNARD GARBER, GEORGE K. KELLEY, JOHN RICKORD, EU­GENE FARRELL, JOSEPH BREIG, LEO F. McINTYRE, and GEORGE A. SCHEUER. 
"Guests included EDWARD FISCHER, '37, of the Notre Dame Journalism Department; Gerald Cos-grove, assoriate editor of 'The South Bend Tribune* and journalism lecturer at the University; W. R. Walton, managing editor of *The Tribune;' James Cbstin, sports editor of 'The Tribune;' PAUL NE­VILLE. '42, of *The Tribune' staff; and THOMAS POWERS, '42, of 'The Chicago Tribune.' 
"The luncheon well m:ght break the ground for an annual reunion of those who sat at the feet of the late DR. JOHN M. COONEY in journalism." 
From FATHER GALLAGAN, C. S. C., writing from St. Bernard's Rectory, HO Church Street, Watertown, Wis., on his return from what he re­ferred to as "the greatest class reunion in the histor}­of Xotrc Dame," said: 
"In talking to alumni of other years—all were loud in tlicir praise of the '28 program. Many said the '28 class certainly showed all of us the way to put over a reunion. Later in the week I had lunch with EDDIE McKEOWN, DICK PHELAN, and HOWIE PHALIX and the whole conversation was limited to the reunion. Many compliments about the progress of the University and their desire and ambition to help the University to continue her progressive pro­gram." 
After reading these impressions of the reunion, 1 am sure all of you are setting aside a fund to finance your trip to the 25-year reunion. 
FRANK DONOVAN'S son. Dick, will enter Notre Dame this year from St. Thomas' Academy in St. Paul. Dick is the first son of a living '28 man to enter Notre Dame. The other sons, as you know, are the two O'Toolc bo>-s. Let mc know if there are any other sons of '28 men entering this year. 
Speaking of FR.\.VK DO.VOV.AX reminds me of one final reunion highlight. Remember how an­xiously VI.NCE WALSH, BILL JONES. BILL KIR­WAN, DEX.XY DALY, JI.M KEARNS and yours truly a\%-aited the returns on the race in which the famous Dono\-an horse, Fighting Frank, came in in second place. 
LT. CMDR. ED. CUX.N7-XGHA.\f is with the 
U. S. Xa\-al School, stationed at Montery, Calif. He resides at R. Xo. 1, Box 105, Carmel, Calif. 
FATHER JIM McSHAXE sent word of his extreme regret at not being able to attend the re­union. 
GEXE O'BRIEN' has evcr>' reason to be proud of his fine achievement in Minnesota newspaper history. An April edition of the '^Hennepin" County Review," Hopkins. Minn,, of which he is one of the publishers, carried the largest single ad ever printed in a Minnesota weekly paper. It was a 16-page section for the Red Ov%l Stores. 
HEXRY HASLEY has been elected faithful navi­gator of the Anthony Wayne General Assembly of the K.C. Henr>- is an attorney in Fort Wayne. ED SULLIVA.X, '24, h the faithful admiral of the assembly. 
1929 
James R. Nowery, P.O. Box 1545 1545 Shrcveport, La. 

From DICK XOWERY (on Aug. 2): To date, I have received only 87 questionnaires and letters from 500 or more requests. The brochure that I am planning for the Twentieth Reunion can­not be compiled unless better response is evident. As anyone can appreciate, this is quite a job and unless I can get better results, or at least a re­sponse of 75 per cent, there will be no need of trying to build a brochure. 
Please send your replies or questionnaires in im­mediately as wc have to have a deadline on this due to work involved. Therefore, I am setting Oct. 1, 1948, as the deadline date. 
I have been out in Colorado this past July and I have talked to ALBERT T. FR.ANTZ, who I understand has been nominated for judge. I also called on CHARLES A. HASKELL, HARRY W. LAWREXCE and ROBERT A. DICK but they were not in. 
JOHN HINKEL, N.D. director of public in­formation, was named to the board of directors of the Catholic Broadcasters' .-Vssociation at its organiza­tion meeting in Boston. 
THOMAS QUALTERS, former bodyguard of the late PRESIDEN'T ROOSEVELT, has been appointed assistant director of labor re!ations for the Kaiser Steel and Iron Co. in Fontana, Calif. He was to take over his duties in mid-August after resigning as district administrator of the U. S. Immigration and Nzturall^atlon Ser\'ice in Boston. 
1930 
Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

HERB BESS is with the Underwriter, Fireman's Fund Ins, Co. in San Francisco. 
Line coach at Holy Cross last ysar^ JOHN LAW was appointed head football and basebzll coach at Mt. St. Mar>*'s college In Emmittsburg, Md-
In a letter to PROF. F. W. KERVICK, head of the Department of Architecture, STEVE NOL.\X of Morristown, X. J., writes: "Since the war I have 
Louis P. Chute, '90 (left), and Vincent E. Morrison, '89, both ol MinneopoUs. were two of the best looking attendants at a recent dinner of the Notre Dame Club of the Twin Cities. 
been doing most of the designing for the office of Randolph Evans and H. Otis Chapman. I also have a small practice of my own. I seem to be having a certain amount of success in my renderings, so much so, that I'm bard pressed at times to do my designing.** 
1931 

Walter F. Philipp, 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Square, Pa. 
DAX CLARK, president of Clark's Lunch Rooms, Inc:., was elected to the board of directors of the First Bank and Trust Co. in South Bend.­
FATHER PATRICK DUFFY, C.S.C, was general chairman of Installation arrangements for the newly established Diocese of Austin, Texas. 
1932 
James K. Collins, 17 Triangle Ave. Da>ton 9, O, 

RAY DE COOK was named director of Misha­waka's new year-around recreation program. He recently returned from Indiana University, Blooming­ton, where he attended a three-day Recreation Training Institute. Ray, up until last spring, was a training ofiicer with Veterans Admintstation at the Notre Dame VA office. 
JOHN LAMBERT is a ser\ice engineer with the JcfFre>' Mfg. Co, in Harlan, Ky. 
Having left Cicero, 111., CLARENCE TROOST is manager of a stone quarry in Montello, Wis. 
JACK WERXER, with his family, have taken up residence in Los Angeles. Jack Is with the Brown Corp. there. His address is 1537 S. Dunsmuir Ave., Los Angeles 35. 
1933 

Joseph A. McCabe, Advertising, Eastman Kodak Co., 343 State St., Rochester, N. Y. 
Mostly from reunion cards returned: HENRY CLUVER was appointed district sales manager, wire and cable department, U. S. Rubber Co., with offices in Philadelphia. JOE DAVEY ts a retail merchant in .-\Inia,^ Mich. NEIL EBERT Is still In the automobile business, with Buick and Cadillac, in Norwalk, O. ED ECKERT Is secretary of the 
A. J. EcJtert Co., Inc. in Albany, X. Y., (plumbing, heating and industrial piping). 
PHIL FAHERTY is a counselor-at-law In Lambert-ville, N. J. CARLOS FR.\NK is employed as an engineer by the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co.^ Snyder, X. Y. TOM GORMAN was promoted to the sales promotion manager for the Che\ToIet M and R division in Chicago. ROGER HE.\LY is working for the Great Northern Railway Accounting depart­ment in St. Paul, Minn. P.-\UL HOST, merchan­dise director for a large Chicago department store chain, has returned from a two months business tour of Europe. 
^L\RTIX HUGHES announces his association with 
W. H. Lcrch, Inc., real estate sales specialists- His new business address is 6522 Clayton Road, St. Louis, Mo. ED KOSKY has joined the athletic department at Holy Cross college in Worcester, %Iass. Father I. A. KREIDLER is working among the Sioux Indians, Devils Lake Reser\'atIon, St. Mlch­aePs Indian Mission, St. Michael's, N. Dak. TOM McLAUGHLLV is a food broker In Cleveland. 
From JOE McaABE: There's not much on the agenda for these summer months. Wc hear the good news from Holyoke, Mass., that JOHN F. SULLIVAN, Jr., Is having a book of poems published in Boston this fall. Nice rhyming, John—and if there's a poetical Book-of-the-Month, we hope you hit the jackpot! 
A card from Tulsa, Okla., also Informs us that MARION J. BLAKE has reopened his law office in the Thompson Bldg. in that dty. Here's wishing you gee down to cases quickly, counselor. ... 
The annual doldrums gives us an opportunity to voice something we've had In mind for a long time. Perhaps the majority of our faithful readen—two 
out of the entire thrc=. say—will rise up in wrath at us for crowding in on the religious editor's territory-. I assure you that I'm not doing so out of a sense of being insufferably righteous: there are few gradu­ates less worthy to discuss matters doctrinal than the undersigned. But what I am about to suggest is guaranteed not to hurt the most delicate reader: and I'd be willing to bet a pound of old mortgages that it will help any and all who try it. 
The suggestion is this: ever>- Sunday of our lives we Catholics are entreated to pray for this or that soul, living or dead, or this or that cauj-c or move­ment, local national or spiritual. Tliat's fine, and we earnestly hope that you all follow through. Then, of course," we all have our own petitions to push, and most of us load our prayers with all the re­quests the traffic will bear. Again, that's fine, and we're sure that none of the pleas goes unheard. 
But—how about offering something up ever\' once in a while on which there's no return sought? Specifically, we mean a Mass. Now as graduates or near-misses from Notre Dame, what could be more fitting than offering that "free" Mass to—let's do a little translating—Our Lady. Evcr>' Catholic who has stavvd au'akc once through the Sunday announce­ments from the altar has heard of the devotion of attending Mass nnd receiving Communion on the nine First Friday's. 
There's an observance—at least equally beneficial— attaining growing popularity abroad and in the U- S., of hearing Mass and "bhting the rail" on five successive First Saturday's of the month. Rated off the amount of sacrifice involved on getting up for weekday Mass. there is probably a lot more credit for this devotion—it's a good deal tougher getting up on Saturday! Anyway, if you can make it. offer the Mass and Communion up to the Blessed Virgin to do with as she sees fit. in honor of Her school. You can't lose—She knows a lot better than you do just what you need and where and when you need it; a raise in salarv- tomorrow, an increase in health next week. . . . She can see around corners, and behind the leaves on calendars! The donation of your prayers, with no strings attached, might enable Her to aid a lonely missionary' in far-off Bengal, or avert an impending disaster In. say. ^toscow. It might even come in handy during that rugged open­ing game with Purdue! 
Catholics in general, and Xotre Dafne men in particular, stand accused of not participating active­ly enough in civic, state, and national affairs. It's charged that we arc oncc-a-week rel-gionists. Rather than getting red-necked about It, or writing letters to the local newspaper, let's get up early in the morning, at least once a month, and offer ourselves to the Virgin ^[ost Powerful. She'll actK'ate and animate us—in the right way—at the right time. Or, if we can't gel to Mass on the First Saturday —say an extra Ave to Her, with no conditions or petitions attached, just because we went to a school with a Golden Dome, on which stood Notre Dame —Our Lady. 
Well, there's my suggestion. And if it costs you a little embarrassment to read it, you can guess how* much it cost your correspondent to write it. Hang us in cffig>'. or throw us out of office if you like—lots of people feel that this is going to be a big year for that sort of thing—but . .. think It over, will you? Or, better yet—try- it! 
1934 

Joseph R. Glennon, Jr., Commercial Sol­vents Corp., 17 E. 42nd St., New York City 
In connection with the 50:h anniversar>' of the Department of Architecture. Prof. Francis Kervick, head of the department of architecture, has passed on word from JOHN BRUST, Milwaukee architect. John wrote in part: "We have done five buildings for the Wisconsin Telephone Co. and a great deal of large department store work. . . . my personal likes follow along the lines of the St. Agnes Hospital or the Waukesha Memorial High School." 
CHARLIE WILLIAMSEN of York. Pa., writes: "JOHN CLARK, present coach of York Catholic brought this city its first Penna State Basketball Championship this past season . . . this non-Catholic community gave the box-s a big hand and feted them at nine or ten banquets sponsored by local dubs .. . all were given fine watches, gold basketballs, etc. John's doing a great job here.'' 
Mrs. JOHN CLAUDER, Milv%^ukee, won the 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Edward M. O'Connor, '32 

Edward M. O'Connor, '32, executive as­sistant. War Relief Scr\'iccs, National Cath­olic Welfare Conference, was on Aug. 2 named by President Truman to a three-man Displaced Persons Commission to start the flow of 202,000 European refugees into the United States during the next two years. 
Ed and the two other appointees, Ugo Carusi and Harr>' N. Roscnfcld, will super­vise immigration under the law enacted in June. 
After receiving his M.A. at Notre Dame in 1934, Ed served as supervisor for the Catholic Charities of Buffalo, N. Y., his home town: as parole officer for the New York State Agricultural and Industrial School, Industr>% N. Y.; and as probatiion examiner for the New York State Depart­ment of Correction, Division of Probation. 
Since becoming associated with the NCWC War Relief Services in 1943, Ed has assisted in innumerable ways in the for­mulation and administration of programs in all fields of foreign relief. Particularly, he made personal sur\'cys of the liberated coun­tries of Europe before the end of hostilities in World War II, and immediately there­after, and these sur\'eys, involving confer­ences with the leaders of many governments, led to the establishment of relief programs in Europe. 
35th annual Wisconsin Women's Golf char:pionsh:p In July 
JOHN LAND has been named manager of sales for the petroleum and chemical Industries section of General Electric's Materials Industries Division. His n~w appointment returns him to Schenectady, N. Y., from Pittsburgh. 
Another fine bit of nev\-s has I>een passed on to us by Prof. Kervick, this from BILL NEWBERRY of Hollywood. Calif: *'In answer to your photo­graphs for the exhibition, I humbly enclose stills from two motion picture sets. Both of the pictures were released over a year ago. .. . I enjoyed work­ing on the sets for these two more than I have on any production before or since. 
*' 'Magnificent DolV pretended to be the life of Dolly Madison^ so I had occasion to resort to mucli early American data from the Library of Congress. No records were a\'ailable, of croursc, on Dolly's home in Philadelphia, so it was designed with early 'l*cn­nsyU-ania Architecture' at one elbow, and *Across New England Thresholds' at the other. 
** 'Lover Come Back' was one of those marriage-problem farces . . . and there was the usual Reno episode which called for Western ranch hotel and bar. 
*'I would like to have sent to you stills from 'One Touch of Venus' which Is the latest production I have worked on. but I was unable to get them this week. The associate art director on this pro­duction is Emrlch Nicholson, whom you might remember as the editor and compiler of Contempo­rary Shops in America.** 
Thomas E. Vj-zral. Chicago, father of E D VYZRAL and a member of the police department for 35 years, resigned July 16. Ed is an alderman of the 15th district, Chicago. 
1935 

Franklyn C. Hochreiter, 1327 Pentwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Md. 
BROTHER CHARLES. C.S.C, was appointed principal of Central Catholic High School in South Bend, he was principal of Memorial High School in E\-ansviI!e, Ind., the past five years. 
OLIVER CH.WIE is an engineer with the Kohler Co., in Kohler, Wis. His home address is R.F.D. No. 1, PKinouth, Wis. 
JOE CORD.ARO is a laboratory- director with the public health regional lab in Waco, Texas. 
The Freedom Train program in South Bend was headed by GENE O'BRIEN. Gene is first vice-president and treasurer of the O'Brien Corp., formerly the O'Brien Varnish Co. 
1936 

Joseph F. Mansfield, National Broadcasting Co., 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y. 
FRED CARIDEO, recently moved from Muncie, Ind., where he was with ChevTolet, is now with General Outdoor Advertising Co. in Chicago. He is handling labor relations. 
The Indianapolis K. of C. elected PAT FISHER grand knight. Pat has been active In the local council for 14 years, and had ser\'ed as advocate, chancellor and deputy grand knight. 
Appointment of RAY HERRLY as manager of the Ball-Band plant's industrial engineering department in Mishawaka was announced recently. Ray, with his wife and young son, reijide at 3511 Oakcrest Drive, South Bend. 
JOHN LEE of San Francisco writes to Professor Francis W. Ker\'ick: *'My partner. Paul R>*an, and I met in India in the army. He persuaded me to bring my family out here, hence, 'Rjun & Lee, Architects,' and perhaps the most important move of my career. .. . I have lost touch with most of the boys since the war. When I was in Cleveland uith John Miller I occasionally heard from several but lately my only contact seems to be an exchange of children's gifts between HUFNAGEL'S wife and mine. He has three children and I have one." 
John's firm is doing much important work in the San Francisco area. 
CHARLES NEVILS is assistant manager of the Franklin Security Co. in Louisville, Ky., and lives at 2621 Whiiticr Ave., Louisville. 
1937 

Frank J. Reilly, 1651 Metropolitan Ave., New York City 62 
BILL BROWNE is studj-ing at Chicago University. His address is (or was) 1400 £. 53rd St., which U the Hyde Park Y.M.C.A. 
JOHN GLEASSEY is a technician with tlie metallurgical department of the American Brake Shoe 
Co. in Mahway, N. J. His home is at 257 Main St., Goshen, N. Y. BOB GROGAN is president of the Margro Oil Corp., Shreveport, La. 
GUY McMICHAEL has become a member of the law firm of Voor, Jackson and Grant with offices in the Associates BIdg., South Bend. Guy resides with Mrs. \fcMichael and their two children at 1341 E. Monroe St. 
TOXY SERGE of Portsmouth, Va., is to enter Ohio Stale University this fall to work for his master's degree in education. 
1938 
Harold A. Williams, 4323 Marble Hall Rd., Baltimore, Md. 

From HAL WILLLAMS: The bo>'S certainly wore themselves out at the re­union in June—I haven't had a word from anyone since then. The only communication for the column is from JOHN FOX; it arrived in late May and was mis­placed in my volumnious but disordered files until yesterday. John, who is a lieutenant in the Xa\->-. stationed in Washington, writes: '*! decided to make the Nav>-a career and haven't regretted it. Since last year I have been in Washington attending the Naval intelligence School and am now burning the midnight oil as I never did before tr>*ing to learn to speak French fluently in four and a half months. This fall I expect to go to Bucharest, Rumania, as 
assistant na\'al attache. Am still in aviation, but don't do loo much flying here as I haven't the time. "Before coming to Washington I had a wonderful 
Xfedilerranean cruise on the U.S.S. Leyte; I had the night flying squadron abroad. We stopped in Eg>-pt. Turkey, Italy. Crete. Gibraltar, and I came back with empty pockets but with plenty of merchan­dise. Before that trip I had the night group on 
the F.D.R. 
"The only one of the fellows I have seen since I met JIM MAGEE in 1946, is FENTO.V MEE, a major in the Marines attached to tife JAG's office in Washington. 
"Sure would like to see some of the old gang. If they are ever in Washington would like to have them look me up. I live at the BOQ at the Naval Receiving Station. From the BOQ address you, can see that Vm not married. Who can tell maybe ril meet some beautifid Rumanian countess.*' 
Thanks, John, for your letter, and my deepest apologies for having misplaced it. 
Well, bo\-s, that'i If you don't write I can't pass along the letters. 
DEAN LARRY BALDINGER has heard from FR.\NK COSGROVE. Frank received his M.S. from Columbia, now is teaching at Loyola University College of Pharmac>' in New Orleans, and is work­ing for his doctorate during the summer at the University of Colorado. 
PAUL HUGHES U trustee for the Charles H. Mann Estate, with his office in the Patenon BIi^. in Flint, Mich. 
JERRY MAGEE is a sales engineer in Buffalo, 
N. Y. with his office at 416 Jackson Bldg. His home address is 225 Beard Ave., BufTalo. 
JOHN P. MAHONEY, JR., Ashtabula, O., re­ceived the degree of Bachelor of Law from the Franklin Thomas Backus School of Law at Western Rescr\'c University. 
JOE RUETZ is back with the Chicago Rockets. He is also a candidate for a doctor's degree in anthropology at the University of Chicago. 
1939 

Vincent DeCoursey, 1917 Elizabeth Kansas City 2, Kans. 
From DAVE MESKILL: "I'm still with General Electric Fm still on the road covering Connecticut, western Massachusetts and the eastern part of New York State. My head­quarters are in Boston, but last summer we H-ere finally able to move to Hartford and I've been lucky enough to get home pretty regularly here. . . . I see PAUL McCOR-MACK, '40, here in Hartford periodically—he's still with Pratt Whitney Aircraft. 
"Getting the kids under control is something of a task, but we have had a few N.D. expeditions lately to visit other tribes. Easter Sunday we took our two do\vn to New Haven to get acquainted with BILL PIEDMONT'S five. Bill's still working hard for the K. of C. A couple of times we've gotten together here in Waterbury with the LUKE McGUINESS'S and their three. Luke's doing engineering with the Southern New England Bell Telephone Co. 
"Just last week we went down to Bridgeport for a day with the EDDIE O'DO.NNELL'S '40, and their boy and girl. Not too long ago Ed landed a fine spot with Br\-ant Electric (Westinghouse) as general foreman of their pla::t:cs department in Bridgeport. 
"JULIE and Betty TONSMEIRE spent a weekend with us this spring. Julie is now sitting pretty as a special assistant to the president of Prentice-Hall Publishing Co. in N. Y. Albany is a good spot for seeing N.D. bo\-s enroute. Last winter I bumped into JIM McGOLDRICK, '39, and his very nice wife. ANDY PINCKNEY, '41, and I meet every so often. Just recently, I spent the evening there with CHET SULLIVAN, '40, who is still going strong—now living in Chicago still and selling auto­motive supplies in New York State. 
"Back in March came the only word I've had in a long lime from my old roomie—ED DIESER. It was a big clipping from the ^'Chicago Tribune" announcing his engagement to Miss Barbara Snyder of Chicago. His promise of more dope later hasn't materialized. 
"BILL COSTELLO showed up in Hartford a few creeks ago as sales promotion manner for General Electric Supply Corp. in Connecticut. Bill plans to mo\'e here frcMU Fairfield, Conn., in September. Also in business lines, I run into MYLES WALSH, '40, occasionally, tiavellim; out of New York for Lionel Trains. 
"We expect to see SULLY and Peg SULUVAX in Maine this summer, where we usually compare notes. Joe is still a big apple merchant. JIM TANSEY is still with Gliddcn Paint in Boston." 
JOE ADRIAN is an engineer with the Curtiss Wright Corp. in Caldwell, N. J. Joe's home is at 267 Manning Ave., Ri\^r Ec^e, N. J. 
Mayor Albert D. Cash of Cincinnati, O., said "one of the Notre Dame boys has done a good job for the Freedom Train." This fine comment was about JOE KfOORMAN who directed the Freedom Train activities in Cincinnati. 
ANDY WILSON has left newspaper work and is now with the public relations department of Nash-Kelvinator in Detroit. 
1941 

John W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 Darlington Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
MIKE DOLAN is an instructor in the department of social science at the University of Portland. His home address is 4751 N. Amherst, Portland 3, Ore. 
Indiana University awarded JOHN RYAN the degree of Doctor of Jurisprudence on June 13. John's home is in Indianapolis. 
HUBERT SCHLAFLY is now with the 20th Cen­tury-Fox Film Corp. in New York City as dircctor of television research. His home addiess is 191-12 IlOth Ave., Hollis, L. I., N. Y. 
1942 

William E. Scanlan, Pullman Trust & Saving Bank, 400 E. 111th St., Chicago 28 
From SCOOP SCANLON: Thanks to some of the faithful contributors, here's a roundup of some chatter from we 6-year-olds: 
Let's start with STEVE GILALIKER, 1537 W. Nfacon, Decatur, 111.: "Glad to see the 'Alumnus.* Hope the column grows. Am writing this (May 
21) from a St. Louis hospital in which I was operated on for plastic surgical repair. ED AL^N­GELSDORF saw me to the portel last Monday. Would welcome word from some of the old ''gang.*' 
Now let^s pick up a communique from SLUSH RICHARDS: 
''I would also like this epistle to serve as notice of the birth of my second daughter. Donna Caroline who joined us in May. I was never interested in~ N.D. becoming co-ed while there, being a true 'lad' but now I think that perhaps 1*11 have to change my views. 
"It was very kind of youse to mention my position as prcxy of the local N.D. club, but I have since bowed out of office to a very capable guy, BILL REID, '26. . . . things are going quite well. I'm still trying to keep Mr. Hooper busy here at WTIC and am currently a co-MC on a give-away *whoop­de-doo' each morning called 'Cinderella Weekend.' 
" I haven't heard from my good mate LEE BURBY in a couple of months but when last noted he u'as busy with business, etc., in Cle\'eland." 
The Class of '42 wouldn't be completed without something from TOM POWERS, now an aide-de­camp of ARCH WARD at the "Chicago Tribune:" 
"It's been a long lime since I reported so I'll try to start vinxy back when. Met ELMER SILHA at one of the Chicago club luncheons. He's a copy writer with one of the advertising ^ende s here. Have been getting away from work week-ends during the summer and tiawling a bit. Went to 
Enid, Okla., to get reacquainted with my Dad and 
This was the night of June 4, 1948, in the Mannerchor Club, South Bend. Remember? part of the family there. Learned TO M McGREE-
Left to right are Dan Gibbs, Harvey Foster, John Murphy and Joe DY of '43 has taken himself a wife in Baltimore where he is working as a pri^'ate eye in a distillery. 
Wehrle, all attending the 1938 reunion party. 
Another *43, JOHN O'NEILL has joined the engi­neering staff of the new Boeing bomber plant in Wichita, Kans. 
"Went to South Bend the next free ^^•eek-cnd to \-istt PAUL NEVILLE, who now is the political writer for the South Bend "Tribune" and doing an excellent Westbrook Pcglarish job of digging up stones on the political beat. He did such a swell job of outlining the past of one man behind the scenes, the entire series of articles was printed for state-wide distribution. After I left Paul, he went on to cover the Republican state convention in Indianapolis and then on to Philadelphia to work both national con\'mtions for the 'South Bend Tribune* and four or five other northern Indiana newspapers who have banded together for news ser\*ice purposes. 
**I arrived in South Bend the day before Com­mencement. First stop u-as the Oliver coffee shop and was surprised to find many students that I knew, most of them members of '43 and *44 who were finishing undergraduate or law courses. Joined wth the class of '28 in a journalists* lundieon at the Town Club where we joined Jim Costin and Bob Walton of the 'Tribune* and ran across BERNIE CAREER of N. Y., JOE BREIG of Cleveland and JOH.N McMAHON of Pittsburgh, all '28crs, whom I had encountered in The Great Job Search of 1946. Had several parties with FRANK PEREZ, Neville's former room-mate, who was graduating, and with Dutch Henning, ^Tribune' photog, who has seen almost as many N.D. graduations as Washington Hall. 
'\Met HARRY O'MELIA, *43, in the Drill Hall while watching Commencement exercises. Also NICK PAPPAS and BROTHER CON.AN, C.S.C., who is running the Book Store now. Dropped in to see him Monday. The place' looks like a new Wal­greens' drug store minus the neon signs, which Brother saj-s are going up soon. Books are now a minor commodity there. You can buy everything from a beer mug with your name and class on it to ash tra>-s and napkins for an engagement parly. Didn't know about it until a week later but FRED BECKMAN, *42, who now is an .Art Department faculty member, became a father during the week­end, giving me another good excuse for another trip. Met RAY DONOVAN, '42, on the bus to 
N.D. Monday and got a look at the Public Informa­tion Center in old Carroll Hall. Met BOB M.AD­DOCK outside St. Patrick's church in South Bend, Sunday. He's center coach for the new Rockets' and according to ED McKEEVER as of a few da>'5 ago, 'Bob's a honey.' Had lunch with BILL DOOLEY, then latched on to FATHER NORTO.N, C.S.C., an old friend of mine from St. Eduards. and Prof. Shanahan. Also had a reunion with DOCTOR KUNTZ for whom I used to work as a student secretar>T Found Eleanor, the maid, still working the first floor of St. Edward's and she told me about all the recent visitors as far back as both of us could remember and added my name to her list. Found JOE, the cook, and my favorite dishwashmg machine in Corby hall, both in swell shape. Met BLAIR McGOWAN downtown. 
"Went to St. Paul a few weeks later to visit ­brother, FATHER JOE POWERS, C.S.C., '37, who is teaching at St. Thomas college and studying for his Ph.D. in history at Minnesota. Met a priest who is a cousin of JIM O'NEAL, '42. Sa>-s Jim has a fine family now and still living in St. Louis. Father JOE saj-5 he was in\-ited to assist at the first mass of AL\TTY BYRNE'S brother but couldn't get away from classes. 
"Was in New York City a couple of weeks ago to visit brother JOHN, *43, who is now, with Inter­national News Photos in the Mirror Building. He told me JOE LANE, *42, now has a sail boat to occupy his time in addition to working with a down-own law firm. Dropped in to see JIM CAWLEY, 40, who is Editor of 'Home Furnishing Review,' Jim tells me JOHN BRODERICK, '41, has joined *New Yorker Magazine.' Jim, like ever>"one else along the line, was glad to hear about JOHN LYNCH, another Scholastic alumnus of '43, getting the scholarship at Stanford. Didn't have time to visit FRANK LAVELLE, *41, but understand he's still in command of a hotel out near Lynnbrook and working for Spcrrj-s. Brother RAY, who owns a golf drinng range in Litle Neck, told me TOM WAL­KER, '42, and se\'eral others from the class had been in to bat out a few and dropped heUos for me. 
"Back in Chicago, DAVE CONDON passed the 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Pat Gorman* '40 

J. R. "Pat" Gorman, '40, senior partner of the law firm of Gorman and Boisvert (Harr>', '40) in Washington, D. C., is na­tional adjutant general of the Catholic War Veterans of America. 
Native of Alliance, O., Pat was graduated from Georgetown University Law School after he left Notre Dame. He spent four years in ser\'ice during World War II and was legislative secretary to Supreme Court Justice Harold Burton during Justice Bur­ton's final term in the Senate. 
Pat is active in the Washington Junior Board of Trade and he and his partner. Bar­rister Boisvert, give long hours and much office space to Notre Dame affairs and to the aid of Notre Dame men, particularly those in need of emplo>*ment assistance. 
telephone one night in THE TRIBUNE office and it was DICK McHUGH, '42, on the other end of the line, in town from Manhattan (Illinois, that is) who sa>-s the soy bean farmer still is king of the sod. Promised to visit him as soon as the har\'est was assured. BILL FAY, *40, who used to be with us but is now with 'Colliers,' was in the office recently, looking very prosperous. And from Pitts­burgh. I learn that JOHN PATTERSON, Ml, from whom I tised to swipe copy pencils at 'llie Press,' has fully recovered from his timely appendix removed, and is now sharpening his golf game.*' 
''Here's news of '42ers as gleaned from Brother JOHN'S letters: at N.Y.'s UNT) Night, he met JOE LANE, BUD CONCAN.NON , BUD SHOUV­LIN, AL PERRI-NE and JIM CAWLEY of '40. More recently at the FATHER CAVANAUGH meet­ing at the Biltmore, he met NEIL QUINN, JOE MANION, TOM WALKER. GREG RICE and GUS HARDART . . . and sa^-s Joe Lane now owns a 12 foot sailboat which he's going to sail in the Sound this month." 
Tom called not long after the letter arrived to report he heard from PAUL NEVILLE and the latter in turn had word from JOE HRACHOVEC Joe, now li\-ing in the Dakotas, is to be married In the fall. Tom's brother, JOHN, is now selling pictures for International News Service in New • York. Another brother, JIMMY, was covering the Olympics for the *'Ncw York Daily News,** so Tom got first-hand reports on the affair in which Jim Delaney captured second place in the shot put. 
The Notre Dame  Alumnus  
JACK DINGES, currently with Swift and Co., Chicago, comes up with a note that BILL BAADER and Bulah Heisen were married. Bill is now in the photographic-art business in Chicago and makingknown his talents in a big way.  ^  
JOHNN'Y POWERS comes up with a clip from the ''Editor and Publisher" which bears repeating:  
"PITTSBURGH—Little did Reporter JOHN PATTERSON, of the "Pittsburgh Press," think that he would he on the sharp end of the scalpel when he was assigned to do a 5tor>- on operating procedure in the ^Ierc>' Hospital.  
"John was busy setting up the story and arrang­ing for Photographer Stewart Love to take the pictures for the rotograxnire section when, alas, John fell ill.  
"John thought it wasn't much more than a stomach ache. Examination showed, however, that it was appendicitis and an immediate operation was needed.  
"John took his place on the operating table instead of beside it and the removal of John's appendix was duly recorded by Photographer Love using strobos­copic lights. The 'Press,' labeling it 'Operation Appendix,' used a four-page roto spread.  
" *I put everj'thing into that stor>'—evenpendix,' quipped John, now recovered."   my ap­ 
When the Chicago Notre Dame Club announced its officers, the '42ers were well represented in the gang. Rapid ROBERT LONERGAN must chaperone for the I&48-49 season. Look at these familiarnames: Board of Governors—FRANCIS E. O'DOWDand BYRON V. KANALEY, JR.  fl 1  
And when you read about the Chicago Rockets jxiu'd think you were hack on the campus, especially since JIM BRUTZ has come out of retirement to join STEVE JUZWIK, BOB NLADDOCK, RAY EBLI, ANGELO BERTELLI, DIPPY EVANS, and others in ED McKEEVER'S regime as head-man of the new Rockets. JIM KEARNS, '34, Chicago's No. 1 sports publidtor, recently added the Rockets to his accounts.  
There you ha\-e it, how about remembering: IF IT'S NEWS. WRITE SCOOP; and if it's about YOU, it's NEWS. So WTite.  
TOM BROCK received his ^LA. in Ph>-sical Edu­cation from the University of Iowa on Aug. 4. Tom is athletic director at King's College in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and his thesis was: "The status of the athletic coach in the high schools of the state of Pennsyl'­
\ania.'  
TON ^ DONADIO recently had a week's engage­ment at the Hippodrome Theatre in his own home town, Baltimore. Tony ts regarded by many as one of the country's most promising young tenors. He was commended by Queen Elizabeth for his fineperformance, having been chosen to give a CommandPerformance for the King and Queen of Englandwhile he was with AAF overseas. Since his dis­ ^ S ^ ^  
cliarge in 1945 he has studied at Catholic University, and in Baltimore and New York and appeared in Baltimore as the tenor lead of "La Traviata."  
A doctor of philosophy degreeBILL FISH by Ohio UniversityColumbus, Bill's home town.   was awarded on June 11  to  in  
EMMETT LENIHAN is with the sales force of the Joseph C. Piatt, Inc. in Portland, Ore. He may be reached at 4327 S. East 66th, Portland.  
JOE RAGOLIA has joined the ph>'sical education department at Ewing Township in Trenton, N. J.  
PAUL PATTEN is now headSt. LawTcnce University, Canton,  football N. Y.   coach  at  
1943  
Joh n  L .  Wiggins , 673 3  Windwar d  St.,  
Cincinnati 27 ,  Ohi o  
A special tribute here and a special word of thanks to the fellow who conducted this corner of the "Alumnus" for fi\*e years, and did it wry, very well—ED RONEY. It wasn't easy for him.  

Volume 26, No. 5, Sept.-Oct., 1948 
particularly .in those war days when he had to write his stuff off the cuff whenever, and whereever, he could find the chance to put one word after another. But he alwa>-s came through, and we*re grateful. We know that >'ou of '43 are grateful too.—£d. 
From JOHN WIGGINS: The first (and only) letter to date comes from ED HANRAHAN up at Harvard Law School. Ed says that a newcomer to the Hanard campus is GUS STUHLDREHER; Gua and Ed remain as the only Notre Dame graduates of the '43 class now that DON MILLER has left to practice in Santa Cruz, Calif., and PHIL STEROPOLI has also graduated. Local newspapers carried stories on the sports pages of JIM DELAXEY'S winning the Olympic qualification finals at Dyche Stadium, Evanston, III. Jim put the shot 55 feet, 1 ^ inches; in so doing he bested the Olympic record. Jim represented the San Francisco Olympic Club. He was reported as FRAN­CIS DELANEY in several wire stories, but is the same Delaney who threw the pill for BILL MA­HONEY and DOC HANDY on Cartier Field. Jim placed second in the OI>'mpic finnis. 
Both Chicago and Cincinnati sports columns re­ported OLLIE HUNTER with the Cincinnati branch of the FBI. The local office knoM-s not of his where­abouts, and the most recent ALUMNUS had Ollie headed for Florida. Seems we'll have to call the FBI in on this case. 
JOE CALLAHAN works for Union Carbon and 

• 
Carbine overseas. His original office was in Calcutta, India. He has since been transferred to their Singa­pore branch. With him is PAT DONOVAN. Both are rounding out their second year in the overseas assignment, and look forward eagerly to the three month \acation promised at the termination of three yTars ser\*ice—that three months to be spent in the U.S.A. 
About three months ago JACK GILLIG.AN'S wife presented him with a girl. Another of the Cincin­nati gang, BILL MIDDENDORF, is at present cruising the Caribbean for the U. S. Navy as a reser\'ist; it's a two week trip. He'll return in time to head to New England to witness the wedding of his Alumni Hall room mate, FRANK STEWART. 
During the vacation completed I made several con­tacts in Chiirago with '43 men. Luncheon engage­ments with JACK TALLETT, FRED GORE, BOB KUIPERS, LEE RAYMOND and WALLY KRA­WIEC, resulted in some ne^-s: JIM FORD is an 
M.D. with the Veteran's Adminstration at Dearborn, Mich. DICK ^HLLER, M.D., was finally separated from the scr\-ice at Ft. Lewis, Wash. JOE EL­WOOD is in the claims department of Travelers Insurance Co. WALT KRAWIEC recently became associated with an insurance outfit. Phone calb to JIM MADIGAN and WALLY McNAMARA netted ^ no answer—evidently \acationing. HOWARD MAR­
% LOW reports that he left General Electric some time ago to join Wisconsin Steel Co., an Internation­al Han'cster subsidiary, in Chicago. 
A post card with information of your whereabouts and present position will help immensely to make the 1943 column the best in the "Alumnus." 
BOB DOVE of Youngstown, O., player-coach with the Chicago Rockets for the past two years, signed up with the Chicago Cardinals. 
DR. JIM FORD is now living in Wilmette, III., his address being 1018 Ehnwood Ave. 
JULIAN MICHEL is with the Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. in Brooklyn, N. Y. Jim is claims adjuster for the company. His home address is 53 Garden Place, Brooklyn, .\. Y. DON MILLER, an attorney, gives his home address as 244 Sly Ave., Corning, N. Y. 
BILL O'NEIL, Akron O., received his LL.B. from Western Rcser\e, Cleveland. JACK RIEDL, a chemical engineer for the Goodyear Rubber Co. of Akron, is now in Rcngam, Johore, Malaya States. He will be there for two years. Jack and Mrs. Riedl have recently welcomed John Michael into their household. 
^ Having wound up his umpiring chores in the 
r girls* pro softball league, LOU RYMKUS has joined the Cleveland Browns at their training camp in Bowling Green, O. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Rabbi Albert Plotkui, '42 

Rabbi Albert Plotkin, '42, now of Temple De Hirsch, Seattle, Wash., was ordained a rabbi in May upon his graduation from the Hebrew Union College, Cincinnati, with magna cum laude honors after six years of study there. H e was awarded the master of Hebrew letters degree and received the Leo Simon Memorial Award for the highest mark of his class on comprehensive exami­
• nations. For the best essay on Jewish phil­osophy he also received Kaufman Kohlcr Award. His thesis, "Comparative Study of the Catholic and Jewish Traditions of Char­ity," will be published. 
Rabbi Plotkin, the first South Bend na­tive to be ordained a rabbi, received his 
A.B. from Notre Dame in 1942 with magna cum laude honors. 
1944 
John A. Lynch, 15724 Granville Rd., Detroit 23, Mich. 

From JOHN LYNCH: JIM D.ANAHER is with the First of Michigan Corporation in the Buhl Building, Detroit. Jim took time out from selling stocks and bonds to write us May 19: 
"On April 29 at 3:53 A.XL, a son, James Philip Jr., checked in at 10 pounds, 4 ounces. . . . His mother is the former Charlotte Brabbee of New York City. While Charlotte was at Harper Hospital TOM MORtW^S wife came in to deliver theii* fifth child, and Tom and I saw a lot of each other during visiting hours as we admired our offspring through the nursery window, 
"Also a few days later BEN MAMMINA of Benton Harbor dropped into the Book Cadillac with a friend attending the Blatz Brewery Convention. Ben is still running Tri-Statc Trucking Co. with his father. 
"About a month ago I was in Port Huron on business and I called BILL WEIL. He was not in, but called me at home that night. Bill is married now and is kept busy with a child and the manage­ment of his Birds-Eye Frozen Food distributonhip." 
On June 5 **TAMBfV" KERRIGAN of town, Ohio, wrote the following, whidt we pan oa to you of the dass: 
"Have intended to %irrite a few lines to the 'Afaun­nns' for several yean. But like so many otbeis, I never quite made it. However, the piece in the April issue from DICK GRANT'S Dad gave me the needed pnsh. Last fall on the morning of the Notre Dame-Army game some of Dick's old bodcfies had a Mass offered for him. FATHER BERNARD McAVOY, Dick's former rector in Bacfin. cdcfarated the Mass in Kforrissey Hall ChapeL NICK AMATO, 
'RED' MCDONNELL, ED GALLAGHER, TOM CODY and myself attended the Mass. Maybe tlus idea win be followed tlus fall by some of the othfr boys and they*!! have Masses said for thor dead buddies when they're back ftir a game." 
JACK WOELFLE and his wife send news that their first, Maiy Lynn, arrived May 25 at 12:09 P.M., wreighing in at 6 pounds, 13 ounces. 
Coi^^tulations are in order for the follovnns of the class who were graduated from the St. Louis University School of Medicine, June 1: JOHN BYRNE (interning at the St. Louis City Hos{ntal); BOB- HUGHES (interning at St. Mary's Group Hospital, St. Louis); DAVE MASSA (interning at the Marine Hospital, Galveston, Tex.); BILL GIL­LESPIE (interning at St. John's Hospital, St. Louis). 
Right after graduation Bill Gillespie took a trip to New York City, where he visited with TONY PIZZARELLI. Tony, who is a graduate of '46, is now bcginnii^; his three-year residency in surgery in Netf York Polyclinic Hospital. He was to be mar­ried in August. BiU saw TONY McNICHOLAS, ex. '45 from Memphis, Tenn. He was to begin his three years residency in obstrctrics. 
BOB BURKE who is a salesman for the F. W. Honerkamp Co., Inc. in Bronx, N. Y., is living at 99 Metropolitan Oval, Bronx, 62. 
JACK COLLINS of Midbnd, Pa., who received his M.S. this June, was one of four' metallurgical engineers from South Bend and the University, who were commended by the American Society for Metals for their contribution to the 1948 metals handbook, compendium of metalluigical information. Jack has a job in Niagara FaUs, N. Y., and resifles at 729 Townsand, Niagara Falls, N. Y. 
BOB GARDNER is a sales- representative for the Ford Motor Co. in Buffalo, N. Y. 
Patrohnan EDDIE HANYZEWSKI, former [Utcher for the Chicago Cubs, conducted baseball clinics in the public parks and playgrounds of South Bend this past summer, aiding youngsters or teams wishing to take ad\antage of his services. 
Best wishes and hopes for a speedy recovery go to BILL KRAPF of Merrick, N. Y., who is at Nassau County Sanatorium, Farmingdale, L. I. 
JOHN NABER is with a securities company in Green Bay, Wis., and is living at 430 N. Sawyer St., Shawano, Wis. 
DAN WATERBURY is engineering assisUnt to the manager of the precision forge division of the Utica Drop Forge Co. at 2415 Whilcboro St., Utica, N. Y. 
1945 

James W. Schacffcr, 7516 N. Hoj-ne Ave., Chicago 45, lU. 
From JIM SCHAEFFER: Yours truly, the so>caIIed class secretary, is back in the good graces of BILL DOOLEY, I hope, beginning with this issue of the "Alumnus." What with a transfer of jobs, and a number of other things, I haven't been keeping up the correspond­ence and the number of items under "From Jim SchacfTer" has been about nil for some time now. That situation is hereby declared changed. 
For myself, I'm now residii^ in Chicago, my old home town. The General Electric Company trans­ferred me out here June 1—doii^ advmising and sales promotion %rork. Naturally, my boss out here a 
a Michigan man, but we have several Notre Dame men in the building. One of them, DICK WALSH, '31 who was district motor specialist, was just trans­ferred back to the East with a very nice position. 
Just received a card from JIM RETTER, who's with Carbide & Carbon in Xew York. James was vcr>' cozj' with the details, but mentioned that he left the happy state of bachelorhood July 3, and had a wonderful hone>'moon in the Catskills. J.'XCK COLLINSj *44, was his best man. Jim didn't say anything more, but we all wliih him and his bride the best of cverx'thing. 
llie next few notes are not new on ye secretar>*'s desk. Indeed, they just came to light with my mov­ing, but better late than never. 
JIM SCnWEICKERT %vill be entering Ohio Slate this fall in a- program leading to his masters degree in social administration. Jim writes, "the nice feature is that there is a scholarship entailed. Funds from the National Mental H>-gicnc unit will enable mc to take tlia requisite 18 months of study and field work without having to hold down a part-time job on the side. Jeanette, my wife, will have achieved her 
A.B. in social ser\*ice by then. When we get settled in Columbus, she can keep the home fires well-stoked. We will have completed two years of married life by then." 
Two Christmas cards also popped up—they came at Christmas time, too. One was from BILL C.-\REY in Xew York, the other from the mother of J.^CK REINERT. who's now Dr. J. E. Reincrt. of Spo­kane, Wash. Jack is now married, to the former Miss Patricia Rotchford. daughter of a Spokane doctor. Mrs. Reincrt wrote that Jack would like to hear from the bov-s, and if any of them arc ever in Spokane, a home cooked meal awaits them, and a good time for all. 
I hope that announcement doesn't overtax the Reinert larder. 
That's all the news from this corner for this month. This redhead awaits all and any mail, so if it's news, "don't write Scoop, write Schaef." 
Four doctors of the class of M5 were graduated from the St. Louis Universitv School of Medicine, June I: JIM LAUDERDALE. Pasadena, CaliL, is interning at the Lcttemian General Hospital. San Francisco; JOE HAXNON, Prescoit. .Ariz., is at the Brooke General Hospital in San Antonio; H.A,RRY STONER. Fostoria. O.. is at the Touro Infirmary in Xew Oricans; BEV. STEWART, Bakcnfield. Calif., is at the Fresno County Hospital. Fresno, Calif. 
1946 

Prospective star, again, of the Chicago Cardinals Is ELMER AXGSMAX. Elmer joined the Cardinals two years ago and was a national standout last year. PETE BEREZ.VEY. Jersey City. X. J., joined the Baltimore Colts at their training camp in Sun Valley, Idaho. 
JIM COMBS received his ^LS. degree from Washington University, St. Louis on June 8. Jim is from University City, Mo. 
XORM JOEHLIN of Toledo, O. is a telephone engineer with the Federal Telephone and Radio Corp.. Clifton.X'.J. X'omi's address is 643 E. Passaic .•\ve., Bloomfield, X. J. 
The Zollner Piston's Ft. Wayne pro basketball team, have bought LEO KLIER of Washington, Ind., from the Indianapolis Kautskys. 
ROX'ALD KXAPP for the summer was an engi­neer with X'orth .American Aircraft in Los Angeles. During the schoolyear his address will be 1007 S. Forest, Ann Arbor, Mich. 
ED iLARSHALL of Batavia, X. Y. is a test engineer with the Chance Vought Aircraft in Strat­ford, Conn. 
Western Rcscr\'e University School of Aledicine has awarded FRANK SCHIRACK the degree of Doctor of Medicine. Frank is from Canton, O. 
FRANK WYRENS of Hebron, X. Dak., is in­terning at St. Marj's Hospital in St. Louis. Frank 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
^^'^?' 

^ii^-.-:;^ 
lohn A. LYnch, '44 

Out of more than 150 applicants, John 
A. Lynch, '44, of Detroit and points west, sccrctar)- of the class of '44, has been named one of the six winners of $2,000 fellow­ships in creative writing at Stanford Uni­versit>- in California. The new fellows are to begin work this fall in the Creative Writ­ing Center of the Stanford English Depart­ment. 
John's first published short storj', "The Burden," appeared last year in The Atlantic Monthly. It was written while he was recu­perating from wounds suiTcrcd while ser\-­ing with the 149th infantrj- in Italy in World War II. This story, widely acclaimed for its literary merit, was selected for both the O'Henry Memorial Volume and for The Best American Short Stories, 1948. 
reccnlly graduated from the St. Louis University School of Medicine. The following also graduated from St. Louis University, June I: BOB DRESSEL (intcrnint; at Little C:>. of Mary IIo:pital, Chi­cago); BOB MACK (interning St. Mary's Group Hospital. St. Louis); BOB MURPHY (interning at St. Paul's Hospital. Dallas. Texas); JOHN OLIVE (interning St. Joseph's Hospital. Kansas City, ^lo.); BOB TERRY (interning at St. Marj's Group Hospi­tal, St. Louis). 
1947 
J. D. Usina, 219 S. Scott St., South Bend, Ind. 

From J. D. USINA: 
X'ews of the 1947 alumni is practically non-existent this time. We are hoping for better returns after all the \'acationing and summer laziness is over with. Wc will pass along a few notes: 
BOB COYLE is working with his father in Jack­sonville, Fla. Tlicy arc in building specialties and are manufacturrr's reprcrentativcs. 
At a Jacksonville meeting in July I saw a number of Florida alumni with the St. Augustine delegation consisting of WADE NODA, STAFFORD, AT­WATER, NED FISHWICK and DAVE BILGER. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

JACK ALEXANDER, who is attending the Har­\-ard School of Business, spent the summer in Eng­land. They were visiting Mrs. Alexander's aunt. 
JIM COOGAN is the superintendent of the stone quarry for the Coogan Gravel Co., Butierftcld, .Ark. His home address is 123 Mann St., Malvcr*), .Ark. JOHN GULD.AN is an electrical engineer for the SyK'ania Electric Co. in BufTalo, N. Y. John's add­ress is 233 W. Utica St., Buffalo. 
GEORGE K.\LER is an aerodynamicist with Cun­solidatrd Vultee in Fort Worth, Tex. 
GENE LONG is with the Bank of An^ericn in Long Beach, Calif., during the day and is attend­ing law school at n:ght. The Longs were presented with a baby boy, Mark, in April. Their address is 4530 Elm Ave., Long Beach. 
LEN LUTZ is a student at the Univcrsily of Michigan in .Ann Arbor. His home address is 303 X. Commerce St., Lcwisburg, O. 
JOHNNY MAYO is leftfielder with ihc Blue Sox Baseball Club of Utica, N. Y., and one of the leading hitters in the Eastern League. 
BOB O'BRIEN, an accountant in Urbana, O., ic­sidcs at R. R. No. I, Urbana. JOE P.ADON is wiili the Major Oil Co. in Houston, Texas, joe's home address is 2431 Shakespeare, Houston. 
JIM PARIS, who was married recently, is a de­signer with Chance Vought in Stratford, Conn. LEO STRUTNER, graduated from the St. Lout$ Univer­sity* School of Medicine June I, is interning at St. ^Iar\'*s Group Hospital in St. Louis. 
JOHN THOMAS is assistant advertising manager of the *'Shelby\-ilIe (Ind.) News." He resides at 335 E. Washington St., Greensburg, Ind. 
According to ARCH WARD of the "Chicago Trib," FRA.\K SZYMANSKI "who was traded to the Green Bay Packers by the Detroit Lioni, claims to be the only athlete running simultaneously in two places 200 miles apart .. . he is running for Con­gress in Detroit and running to lose 20 pounds in the Packer camp." 
JOHN.XY iLASTRANGELO, of Vandergrift, Pa., signed with the Pittsburgh Steelers. CARL LOYD was signed by the Oshkosh All Stars of the Natiomd basketball league. CarPs home is in South Bend. 
1948 

From HERMAN ZITT: Welcome August graduates into the Notre Dame .Alumni Association. As the "old timers" know, this is the third edition of the '48 class news. Also, most of you know that the purpose of this column is to keep ever>"body informed about anything some­body else would like to know about anybody. So let's have the scoop about yourself, your particular pals, jobs, new jobs, marriages, birlhs. new addresses, etc 
Suggestions, votes, etc., regarding a permanent class secretar>" have not been too plentiful. Being such a large class, should we regionalize the job in order to get more and better news? 
For the benefit of those who haven't as yet furnished BILL DOOLEY with the information necessary- for the Notre Dame Director>-, here is the data needed: Full name, Class. Title of Position, Business Address. Nature of Company's Business, Your Occupational Classification, and Residence Ad­rcss. 
BILL WEILER is in Montgomerj- Ward's executive training program, Eugene, Ore. BRUCE HILL is taking grod work at Ohio State Univcrsily. BOB WEIG.AND is a sales engineer in Canton, 6 . BUD ZINK is a solicitor for the Zink Insurance Agenc\-, Canton, O. HUGH SULLIVAN is a junior chenii!u for the Socony-Vacuum Oil Co.. Paulsboro, N. J. JOE FLOOD is a Ph>^ical Ed. Instructor at Croy­don Hall .Academy, Atlantic Highlands, N. J. BOB MacLEMALE is the assistant traffic manager for the 
B. Forman Co., Rochester, N. Y. 
AL KROME is the owner of the Watkins Products Store in Mishawaka. SAM MOLTER is practicing law in Kcntland, Ind- JOHN DOYLE is in the specifications department at Studebaker's. TO M CARLIN is a salesman for Montgomery-Ward in 
Trenton, N. J. BOB KOPF is an editor for the Kimbell Glass Division, Owens Illinois Glass Co., Vmeland, N. J. DICK DONNELLY is the manager of the Donnelly Hotel in Binghamton, N. Y. 
FRANK DEBITETrO is working in the research department of the F & R Lazarus Co., Columbus, O. JOHN COWLEY is now working in San Francisco, Calif. JOE WURZLER is an accountant trainee with the New York Telephone Co. 
ANTHONY MISTRETTA is a solicitor for the Todd Shipj-ard Corp., New York. LEO MALONEY is an English instructor at Niagara University. JOHN SWEENEY is doing master's work in Economics at Columbia. JIM BURKE is working in advertising for Proctor & Gamble, Cincinnati. TOM HACK­MAN is a salesman for Remington Rand Co., Cin­cinnati. 
TOM EARLS is an accountant for the Maine Bonding & Casualty Co., Portland, Me. DICK MALAY is an accountant for the Andrew Jergens Co., Cincinnati. TOM CARMODY is teaching and doing grad work at Case Institute of Technology, Cleveland. DAN FESSIA is a research chemist with the National Advisory Committee on Aeronautics, Cleveland. JOHN ECHENRODE is a salesman for The Echenrode Furniture Co., Columbus. PAT HUGHES is a medical student at Ohio State Uni­vetsity. JOHN PADON is co-chairman for the Padon Price Oil Co., Wichita Falls, Te-t. 
BILL BALL started his position with the legal department of W. R. Grace & Co. in New York City on Sept. 7. JOHN DI GANN, also of the Law School, is an adjuster with the Auto Owners Insurance Co. of South Bend. 
JOHN MURPHY of St. Louis, has recently left the Studebaker Corp. in South Bend and will assume his duties as athletic director and coach of the ChrisU'an Brother's High School in Jefferson City, Mo. 
GENE LE FAVE, Green Bay, Wis., is the first recipient of the J. I. Holcomb fellowship in c:hem­tstry at Butler University, Indianapolis. He will receive $1,500 a year for two years. Since his gradu­ation in February he has been a research chemist in Milwaukee. 
RAY RISTOW is connected with the accounting dcfurtment of the U- S. Rubber Co., Mishawaka. His home address is 727 Clinton St., South Bend. 
In Ovratonna, Minn., the family name of Smersh is well known, especially when it comes to doctors. DR. THOMAS SMERSH, of the third generation, graduated from medical school June 12 and is now interning at St. Mar>''s Hospital in Milwaukee. / 
JOHN WINGENDER, 2243 Jones, Omaha, Nebr., received his law degree from the University of Washington and is now practicing in Omaha. 
Additional 1942 
From Mrs. Lashbrook: 

We had a nice visit from the legal light of the Columbia Broadcasting System, JAMES NEU. Jim was \*acationing in Plymouth, Ind. and reported that he is in charge now of the Washington legal office of C.B.S. 
Among the *42 men who have lately graduated from the law school are: VIC GULYASSY, BYRON HAYES, JOE McNERTHNEY, TOM MILLS, MARTIN ROCK, MIKE HINES, JOHN HAL­LECK, BOB MILLER, CHARLES CAVANAUGH, GERARD FEENEY, FRED HOOVER, JOE LANE, JOHN WEURTZ, BOB SINON, GERALD SHEA and GEORGE STRATIGOS. 
Of the above named graduates of the law school since 1W2, MARTIN ROCK is practicing law in Illinois. BOB MILLER, who was married this June, is practicing in South Bend. CHUCK CAVA­NAUGH is attorney for the Hartford Insurance Company in South Bend. GERRY FEENEY and GEORGE STRATIGOS are partners in South Bend. FRED HOOVER has opened an office in Seattle, where he recently became a father, and BOB SINON is with White and Sinon in Ottawa, 111. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Donald OTooIe 

Donald O'Toole, '31, is the only person in the Midwest who is vice president of three banks, and it is particularly significant in that he first entered the banking business in November, 1946. In less than two years he became vice president of Pullman Tmst & Savings Bank, Standard State Bank, (both in Chicago) and State Bank of Blue Island, 111. 
A native of Chicago, Donald is one of the six O'Toole brothers (the others are Paul, '32, Justin, '36, Bartholomew, Jr., '39 (de­ceased), Kevin, '43, and Robert, '45) who have been graduated from Notre Dame. His father is also active in Notre Dame affairs. An A.B. major, Donald was especially ac­tive in the Glee Club. 
After leaving Notre Dame he engaged in the real estate and construction business in Chicago, specializing in large-scale construc­tion activities, until 1944. He entered the Navy at that time and subsequently served in Korea as property custodian officer for a large province. 
In addition to being vice president of the three banks, Don is also a director. At Pull­man Bank he recently succeeded Champ Carry, president of the Pullman-Standard Car Mfg. Co., as director. He is married to the former Marion Geddes, of St. Mary's and has t\vo children, Donald and Nancy. 
BOB RICHARDSON sent a note recently announc­ing the arri\'al of a baby girl on Aug. 18, and also giving us the news of his recent passing of the North Carolina bar e.xaminations. He will practice in Lum­berton, N. C JOHN VERDONK, prosecuting attor­ney in his home county in Michigan, paid us a visit recently when he also visited his brother, BILL, who is now in the law school. CECIL JORDAN was in for a short visit recendy. He is looking for a good location for law practice, somewhere in the South if possible. We will be glad to forward to him any interesting offers. 
BILL SYRING was here this spring and we are told he is enjoying a nice practice in Toledo, O. 
for all the fanuly— 
an aibum of new, unbreakable 
VINYUTE RECORDS of the 
Songs of Notre Dame 
including 
When the Irish Bacb Go March­ing By Notre Dame, Our Mother Hike, Notre Dame Do¥m the Une Victory March Ave Maria 
Presented by the 
REPUBLIC GLEE CLUB with Walter SchefF, baritone, and Ralph Nyland, tenor 
Album produced by the Cecille Music Co. (Tom True­man, '41, and Mike Grace, '41). 
The cost is five dollars per album, including mailing costs. 
Order through the 

Notre Daae Bosk Store 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

^4/iecio^ of Clubs and Their Presidents » » 
ARIZONA—PHOEXK—Robert Kendall, '31, 302 Mitchell Dr. T0CSON—Ted W. Witz. '29, Box 628 
ARKANSAS—Burt L. Roberts. '16, 1S25 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock (secretary) CALIFORNIA-LOS ANGELES—Vernon E. Rick­
ard, '24, 1620 N. Vista St., Holl>-«Qod 46, Calif. NORTHERN—William J. Yore, c-c. '29, 627 Adams St., Albany, Calif. 
SAN DIEGO—W. Albert Stewart. '36, 728 San Diego Tr. & Savings Banlv Bids. 

COLORADO — DENVER—Francis  Brown.  '31.  
2025 Oneida  Su  
CONNECTICUT —CONNECnCOT  VALLEY  —  

William J. Reid, '26, 7 May St., Hartford, Conn. 
NATJGATUCK VALLEY-D. Frank Humane, "32, Summit Rd., Prospect, Conn. (Water­bury area) 
SOUTHWESTER.N—Franli S. McGce, '33, 51 Savoy St., Bridgeport 6 (Bridgeport area) 

DELAWARE—Arthur A. Baum. '36, 1310 Van Buren St., Apt. 3-C, Wilmineton. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA —WASHINGTON — Thomas L. McKcvitt, '32, 10,108 Big Rock, Rd., Silver Spring, Maryland. 
rl-ORIDA—GREATER MIAMI—I. I. Probst, '26, 1118 Alberca Ave-. Coral Gables, Fla. 
FT. LAUDERDALE—Robert H. Gore. '31. 221 N.E. River Drive, Ft. Lauderdale. Fla. 
NORTH FLORIDA—.lohn F. Lanahan. '43. 
P.O. Box 14flS, Jacksonville. F!a. 

GEORGIA—William H. Schroder, Jr., '35, 162 Rumson Rd., Atlanta, Ga. 
ILLINOIS—CHICAGO—James R. Cronin. '35, 3982 Cottaj-e Grove Ave. 
FOX VALLEY—William B. Clia«-go, '31, 516 Binder St., Aurora, 111. 
JOLIET—Joseph V. Kirincich, '33, 306 Ruby St. 
PEORIA—Donald P. Smith, '40, 436 Linn St. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY —Donald A. Hen­nessy. '37, Catholic Community High School, Sterling, III. (Rocfcford-Dixon area) 
SPRINGFIELD — Ridiard T. Neesan. '30. 
806 S. Sth St. 

INDIAJJA—CALUMET DISTRICTT—Daniel D. Lynch, '23, 34 Midway Court. Hammond, Ind. 
EASTERN INDIAN-^-William F. Craig, '29, 
Station WLBQ, Muncie (Munde area) 
FORT WAYNE—Bernard T. Keams, '29, 903 
Pasadena Drive 
INDIANAPOLIS — G. Don Sullivan, e.x. "24, 
105 S. Meridian St . Room 430. 
MICHIGAN CITY-Hugh L. Burns, '39, Stop 
18, Long Beacli, Ind. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—Jerome J. Crowley, '31, 
315 LaMonte Terrace, South Bend, Ind. 
TRI-STATE (Ky., Ind. and III.)—Paul C. 
Thole, ex. '35, Hulman BIdg., 1011, 4th & Syca­
more, E\*ans\'inc 18, Ind. 
WABASH VALLEY —William J. Schrader. 
ex. '33, 824 North 10th St., Lafayette, Ind. 

IOWA—DES ilOINES—Gcoise J. Pflanz, III, ex. '43, 694 Inscurancc Exchange BIdg. 
DUBUQUE—Louis F. Fautsch. '35. 1045 S. 
Grandview. 
SIOUX CITY—Robert A. Manning, '36, 2719 
Nebraska St. (key man) 
TRI-CITIES—Alfred T. Erskine. Jr., '37, 712 
Grand Court. Davenport, Iowa. (Davenports 
Rock Island-Moline area) 

KANSAS — E.\STERN — Joseph J. Dawes, '26, 519 Ohio. Leavenworth, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY—Charles G. Morrow, '38, 419 Mc-Cready Ave., Louis\-ille 6, Kentucky. 
LOUISIANA—NEIV ORLEANS—Jules K. de la Vergne, '38, 5811 Hurst 
NORTHERN-James R. Nowerj-, '29. P.O. 
Box 1545, Shreveport 94 (Shreveport area) 

MARYLAND —BALTIMORE—Dr. Roy O. Scholz. '35. 1529 Pentrid,ge Road. 
MASSACHUSETTS—BOSTON—John V. Mtwan, 
•30, Costcllo. Moran & Mahan;-31-Statc S t • ­

MICHIGAN—BERRIEN COUNTY — William H. Downey, '28, 60 N. S t Joseph Ave.. Niles (Ntles-St Joseph-Benton Harbor area) 
BLUE WATER DISTRICT—William L. Wil­son, '42, P.O. Box 295, Port Huron (Port Huron area) 
CENTRAI^Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, '18, 828 
N. Logan St , Lansing (Lansing area) 
DETROIT—Adclbert C. Baur, Jr., '36, 17365 Parksidc, Detroit 21, Mich. 
GRAND RAPIDS and ^VESTERN MICHI­GAN—Robert N. Alt. ex. '29. 901 Plymouth Rd., S.E. 
HIAAVATHALAND—>Htt N. Sm!»h. e-x. '88. 
Escanaba Natl. BIc. Escanaba. Mich. 
IRON R/VNGE;—Robert T. O'Callaghan, e.x. 
'45, 635 McLeod Ave., Ironwood, Mich. 
SAGINAW VALLEY —Joseph C. Goddeyne, 
•11, 2275 Carrol Rd.. Bay City, Mich. (S^i ­naw area) 

jnNNESOTA—TWIN CITIES—Paul H. Castner. 
•23. 130.i W. Arlington Ave.. St S t Pjiul 4. Minn. 
DULUTH-SUPBRIOR—Wm. E. Cotter, Jr.. 
•41. 1929 E. Sui>erior St . Duluth. Minn. 

MISSOURI—KANSAS CITY (Mo. and Kans.)— Joseph M. Van Dyke, ex. '44. 4642 Pennsyl­vania, Kansas City 2. Mo. 
ST. LOUIS—Fred S. XfcNcill, '36, 4610 Pen­
rose. 

MONTANA—Bernard Grainey, '43, 801 12th Ave., Helena. 
NEBRASKA—John E. Hnnigan. '43. 1111 S. Cot­ner Blvd.. Lincoln, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY—CENTRAL —Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy (Perth Amboy area) 
NEW JERSEY—George J. Melinkovich. '35, 
27 Leo Place, Newark (Newark area) 
NEW YORK—BUFFALO—John L. Hoelscher. '42. 174 Crosby Blvd.. Eggertsville. CAPITAL DISTRICT — James J. Drislane, '38, 75 State St, Albany, N. Y. 
CENTR/\L—John E. McAuIifle, '39, 941 Turtle 
St., Sjracuse 8, N. Y. 
MOHAWK VALLEY—Dr. Francis A. Marino, 
'37, 903 Mohawk Su, Uuca, N. Y. 
NEW YORK CITY—John A. Hoyt, Jr., '33, 
Gillespie & O'Connor, 20 Vesey S t 
NORTHERN—Judge Cornelius J. Carey, '30, 
12 Park St , Malone (Malone area) 
ROCHESTER—William R. Bell, '25, 95 Ames 
St 
SCHENECTADY—John F. Hurley. '37. 83 
Western Parkway, Schenectady. 
TRIPLE CITIES—James H. Hogan, '34, 42 Oak St . Binghamton. (Binghaniton-Johnson City area) 
OHIO—AKRON —Paul A. Bertsch, '29, 763 S. High. 
CANTON—William H. Belden, '36, 305 22nd 
St, N.W. 
CENTRAL—Dr. 'Hiomas M. Hughes, '38, 481 
E. Town St . Co'umbus 13. 
CINCINNATI—Robert J. Leonard, '41, 2504 
Carew Tower. 
CLEVELAND—Francis M. Payne. Jr., '29, 
27S70 Gilchrist Dr.. Euclid. Ohio. 
DAYTON—E. William Hoyne, '42, 205 Salem 
Avenue 
HAMILTON—Judge Harry F. Walsh, '31, 
Municipal Court 
OHIO VALLEY—William J. Yaeger, '42,156 
S. Park St, Wheeling. W. Va. (Bellaire­A\Tieeling area) 
SANDUSrCY—Alfred A. Schnurr, Jr., "28, 
So. .Columbus Ave., Sandusky, Q., . 
•nFFIN—Fred J. Wagner, '29. 84}4 S. Wash­ington S t 
TOLEDO—John R. Malone, '42, 4805 Summit St 
YOUNGSTOWN—Clarence T. Sheehan, '40, , .. The "Vindicator." 
OKLAHOMA—TULSA—Cari J. Senger, '37, 1329 North Boston. 
OKLAHOMA CITY—Haskell Askew, '31, 1000 Perrine BIdg. 
OREGON—Robert G. Molin, '40. 316 W. Alder St . Portland 
PENNSYLVANIA—EASTERN—Leo R. Mclntyre. 
•28. 3004 Turner St . Allentown (Allentown-Bethlehem area) 
ERIH^Joseph C. Barber, '36, 705 Ariel BIdg. 
HARRISBURC;—Edward R. Eckcnrodc Jr. '44 
2929 North 2nd S t 
MONONGAHELA VALLEY — Edward J. Dean, '28, 11 Linden Ave-. Monessen. Pa. (Monessen area) 
PHILADELPHIA—John H. Neeson, Jr., '35, 37 Highland Ave. Cynw^d, Pa. 
SCRANTON —Louis J. Finske, 'l^. Gravel 
Pond No. 2, darks Summit Pa. 
WESTERN—J. Vincent Burtc, Jr., '33, 1100 Peoples Bank BIdg., Pittsburgh 22, Pa. 
WILKES-BARRE—Edirard J. Ro»an, '35 34 
W. North St 
WILLIAMSPOBT—Frank C. Hayes, '27, 820 
Erie Ave.. Renovo. Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS— 
J. Clement Crimes, ex. '29, 384 Ri>-cr Ave. ProWdence, R. I. ' 
TENNESSEE-MEMPHIS-Phil M. Canale, Jr., '40, 1325 Commerce Title BIdg. 
NASHVILLE—W. Kennedy Jones, '30, P.O. 
Box 773 
TEXAS —DALL^\S—Edmond R. Haggar. "SS. 6113 Lemmon Ave.. Dallas. Tex. 
HOUSTON—Tliomas A. Suindish, '35, 2106 
Swift 
SAN ANTONIO—Leonard M. Hess, '25, 201 
Stanford Dr. 
UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearns BIdg., Salt Lake City 
VIRGINIA—Dr. Charles R. Riley, '39, 3508 Sem­inary Ave., Richmond 22. 
•SrASHINGTON—WESTER.V—John P. English, '33, ^ 1606/j I5th Ave.. Seattle. 
SPOKANE^Bernard J. Lenoue. '.fl. .'24 E. 
Sinto Ave. 
WEST VIRGINIA-William J. ICenney, •34. 714 Lee St , Charleston. 
WISCONSIN—GREEN BAY—Harold L. Londo, '24, Sup't, Green Bay Water Dept 
FOX RIVER VALLEY—William H. Fiewcger, 
'36, 419 Naymut St., Menasha, WU. 
LA CROSSE—Frederick R. Funk, '46, 208 
South loth S t 
MILWAUKEE—Donald T. Gottschalk, ex. '41, 
213 W. Wisionsin Ave. 
SOUTH CENTRAL —John W. Roach, '25, 
2115 Van Hise Ave.. Madison (Madison area) 
FOBEIGN CLUBS 
BENGAL. INDIA—Rev. John W. Kane. -24, 
(key man) Dacca, East Bengal. 
CUBA—Christopher C. Fitzgerald, ^94 (key man). La Metropolitana (711), Habana. HAWAII—Thomas W. Flynn. Jr.. •3.7. 5317 Opihi St . Honolulu. T.H. 
MANILA—Anthony F. Gonzales. "25 (key man), •The Insular Life Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular Life BIdg. 
PANAMA—William J. Sheridan, '38, Box 
605, Ancon, Canal Zone. 
• PUEHITO RICO—Paul F. McManus, '34 (key man). B & M Products Company, Box 2695, San Juan. 







