The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

The Notre Dame 
ALUMNUS 
Vol. 24 JUNE, 1946 No. 3 
Admiral Nimitz Meets Officers of the Student Council and the Veterans' Club (See Page 3) 
."fen 

tes 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 



Allocation of the Third Annual Alumni Fund 
In a previous report to the alumni in regard to the allocation of the Centen­ary Fund, I said: "Privately-controlled universities generally are suffering from the impact of the war, and Notre Dame is no exception. I know, therefore, that our alumni will be happy to respond, in greater numbers and a correspondingly greater amount, to further appeals of the national officers." 
As you will note from the report on the Third Annual Alumni Fund, I was perhaps a little too optimistic about an increase in the Fund. Undoubtedly there are good reasons for the decrease, but unfortunately the needs of Kotre Dame have not diminished in the postwar. Significant, too, is the fact that about the same percent of alumni — 30.6 to be exact — participated. One might call this group "the loyal guard." 
I wonder if the suggestion is in order 

that this group take it upon itself to 
enlighten some of their associates as to 
the duty that devolves upon them, in the 
hope that the current Alumni Fund will 
show a substantial increase not only in 
the total amount, but also in the total 
number participating. I make this plea 
not in the sense of criticism, but in the 
hope that those who have been derelict 
will be aroused to an appreciation of the 
need in the light of the terrific problems 
that confront Notre Dame in the post­war. 
We have determined to strengthen the undergraduate division wherever it needs strengthening, and we have also advanced certain conservative plans for the graduate division. Both undertak­ings mean added expense, and unless the 
f 
COMMENCEMENT BULLETIN! 

George Sokoltky, brilliant columnist for King Feature*, has graciously ac­cepted the invitation of Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the Uni­versity, to deliver the Commencement address on Sunday, June 30. 
Hon. Arthur Vandenberg, United States senator from Michigan, who had expected to visit the campus for that occasion and to deliver an address, was obliged to cancel his appearance to attend a meetinK of the Big Four rep­resentatives of the United Nations in Paris. 
d 

money is forthcoming from both the en­Notre Dame's growth is not an end in dowment and the alumni funds, our itself, but a means to one great end: plans quite naturally will materialize the preservation and dissemination of more slowly. the Christian culture which is our com­
mon heritage and our common hope." 
Knowing our alumni to be loyal when they appreciate Alma Mater's problems, With renewed appreciation and abid­I am still optimistic. As I said on a pre­ing good wishes, vious occasion, "The phrase 'alumni participation' has a broader and deeper (Bev.) J. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C. meaning than we sometimes attach to it. PresUient 
R" ••a 
THIRD ANNUAL ALUMNI FUND DISTRIBUTION 
Total Third Alumni Fund Participation (February, 1946, Alumnus) $94,284.27 
Balance from last report (October, 1945, Alumnus). 1,070.92 
195,355.19 

Less difference between Maturity Value and present Cash Value of United States Savings Bonds constituting part of this fund J 5,105.25 
Less special purpose gifts of 16,070.00 21,175.25 
Net cash available for distribution.. $74,179.94 
I 1. Expenses connected with the operation of 
I Alumni Association from January, 
I 1945, to December 31, 1945. 
1 The Alumni Fund replaces the former i payment of annual dues..Hence, part I of it -will be used to print the ALUM­I Nus, pay salaries of the secretary and I assistant secretary, maintain club or-I ganizations and class programs, etc $37,279.44 
I 2. Library Fund, for both the University 
I and departmental libraries .' 18,000.00 
I 3. Faculty Fund for advance study. 3,000.00 
I  4. Bishop John  F. O'Hara  Scholarships  for  
I  graduate school  ....  „  5,000.00  
I  5. James A.  Burns  Scholarships  10,000.00  73,279.44  

I Available for future use . % 900.50 
E>" • "" > • M •»niniin>nunnmnnn..nnn>»M.i....»n>ii. ..Q 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Hi s magazine is published bi-monthly by the University ot Notre Dame, Notre Oamek bdiana. Entend u second eUa matter Octo­ber 1, 1939, at the Postofiice, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Goancil. 
lames E. Armabong, '25. Editoi; VniUcon B. Doolay. '26. Managing Editor -/s^^­
Vol. 24 JUNE. 1946 N6.^3 


Admiral Nimitz Receives Honorary' Degree 
Comes to Campus on May 15th as Central Figure in Special Convocation; Ceremony in Drill Hall Follows Reception at the Airport; Pitches Horseshoes with J. Mangan and Coach Leahy 
At the fifth special convocation in Notre Dame's 104 year histoiy on May 15, Fleet Admiral Chester W. Nimitz, Chief of Naval Operations, was awarded the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa. Not since the present Pope, His Holiness Pope Pius XII, then Cardinal Pacelli, was similarly honored in 1936 has the University called such a con­vocation. The degree was awarded to Admiral Nimitz in 1943, but problems both of war and peace had prevented an earlier acceptance. 
The Admiral's party, including Con­gressional Medal of Honor winner Comdr. E. B. Fluckey, his aide, arrived at the South Bend airport aboard the Admiral's private plane at 12:30 P.M. after fluctuating weather reports had caused repeated changes in the time of arrival. As the Admial stepped from the plane he was greeted by Eev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., representing the University, by various city officials and members of the University Board of Lay Trustees, and by Capt. J. Richard Barry, commandant of naval units at Notre Dame. 
Thousands of South Bend residents lined the route used by the motorcade as it made its way from the airport to the University. Upon arrival at the campus. Father O'Donnell was host to the Navy party at a luncheon in the Trustees Room in the dining hall. 
At the convocation in the Navy drill hall, some 3,500 students arid faculty members weire on hand as Father O'Don­nell and Admiral Nimitz stepped onto the platform. FoUomng a selection by the Glee Club, Father O'Donnell in­troduced the Admiral who responded 
(Other pictures on back cover) 

warmly to the honor conferred on him. (Father O'Donnell's and Admiral Nimitz' speeches are printed in full in this issue). 
The citation, read by Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, director of studies, was as follows: 
The University of Notre Dame confers the degree of Doctor of laws, honoris causa on a stalwart christian gentleman who has served his country with loyalty, distinction, and honor in the various ranks of his profession from Ensign to Fleet Admiral, whose present position as Commander in Chief of the United States Fleet and Chief of Naval opera­tions is a tribute to his ability and an indication of the trust and confidence which his fellow citizens repose in him, an officer whose gallant service and brilliant strategy have aided magnifi-
Admirol Nimitz Speaking 

cently in defending our country from her foreign enemies in two 'world con­flicts, whose prudent counsel is as effect­ive in peace as is his sagacious leader­ship in war, on Fleet Admiral Chester William Nimitz- of the United States Navy. 
At the conclusion of the ceremonies in the drill haU, the Admiral received representatives of the Notre Dame Stu­dent Council and the Notre Dame Vet­eran's Club. A reception for the' mem­bers of the faculty and their wives followed in the Administration Building. 
The clock was striking five when the Admiral appeared at the horseshoe courts behind St. Edward's Hall. Clad in blue shorts and sweat shirt he pre­sented quite a different figure from the one he had made on the platform in the drill hall as he received the doctoral cape. The horseshoe match grew out of a rivalry begun at Pearl Harbor when' the Admiral used to beat the then Lt. Frank Leahy with regularity and dis­patch. Teamed with Johnny Mangan, university chauffeur of 36 years stand­ing and onofiicial horseshoe pitching champion of the campus, the Admiral made a game fight but eventually fell before the ringers and hear ringers of Coach Leahy and-his teammate Bill Vangen. As a matter of fact, the coach used two partners to win. The first two games were played with Madill (Bud) Gartiser, Navy veteran of Webster Groves, Mo., as Frank's partner, and the last two with Vangen, also a Navy vet, of Bell, Calif. 
Following the historic match Father p'Doimell was host at a dinner in the Faculty Dining Hall. The Admiral and his party left for Washington, D. C, the following morning. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Admiral Nimitz receives degree from Father O'DonnelL Admiral Nimitz. Father ODonnell and Captain Barry. 
Father O'Donnells Address at Nimitz Convocation 
Special convocations are very rare 

occurrences at Notre Daihe. As a matter 
of fact, I douht if more than five have 
heen held on this historic campus since 
the University was founded. The last, as 
many of you will recall, took place in 
October, 1936, when the present Holy 
Father, now gloriously reigning-, visited 
us as Cardinal Secretary of State. That 
event will live long in the memories of 
those who attended. And so will this oc­
casion which brings us together to honor 
one who is so deserving of honor—one of 
the heroes of our armed forces of World 
War II, the admiral of the most power­
ful fleet ever assembled by any nation. 
I know your innate modesty. Admiral, so I shall not embarrass you with a re­cital of your heroic achievements. After all, your place is fixed in the hearts and minds of your countrymen, and no words of .mine can add anything to the acclaim which you deserve, and which you have received from a truly gi-ateful nation. You belong to all America, so I know you will not object when I say that we at Notre Dame feel very close to you be­cause of your interest in this old school ever.since you first became head of the then Bureau of Navigation. 
We thought about you a great deal during the early days of the war. WTien you first went out to the Pacific, our hopes and prayers went with you. We knew the tremendous task that awaited you, that you not only had to defeat a powerful enemy, but had to fashion the fleet to do it with. But knowing you— your faith, your courage, your skill, — we had no doubt about the final outcome. 
I am reminded, Admiral, that I broad­cast a radio message to you back in 
April, 1942. It was on Universal Notre 
Dame Night, and I spoke in behalf of 
Notre Dame men everywhere. I don't 
know whether or not you heard this mes­
sage—^you were a pretty busy man about 
that time—^but in any event you heard 
about it, because you wrote to me after 
the Battle of the Bismarck Sea. I said: 
"Admiral Nimitz, wherever you are, Notre Dame greets you. I send this mes­sage on behalf of 15,000 Notre Dame, men throughout the world. A thousand of them are in the armed forces. This is in keeping with our tradition of patriot­ism. The fact is that the peaks of Notre Dame's history are shrouded in the mists of war. In the Civil War and again in 1917 the priests of Holy Cross, the fac­ulty and students fought side by side. In World War II Notre Dame will not be found wanting. 
"Last fall. Admiral, you gave a Navy Day address in Washington Hall. You had never been on our campus before, but you and Notre Dame were not strangers. We had admired you for a long time, and you knew us and our tra­ditions. As Chief of the Bureau of Navi­gation, you recommended to the Secre­tary of the Navy the establishment of the Notre Dame unit of the Naval E.O.­
T.C. The Navy and Notre Dame are con­tinuing their close co-operation under your successor. Admiral Jacobs. 
"Yes, Notre Dame is doing its part. We are in this war just as you are. But Notre Dame is still operating as Notre Dame. We are training men for Ameri­ca, for today and for tomorrow. As long as there is an America, there must be a Notre Dame preserving the character, purposes, and integrity of the true uni­
versity. Our task is to provide leader­
ship, not only during the war, but also 
after it. 
"Do you remember Admiral, a conver­sation that we had while you were here? You were on your way to a meeting of the Association of American Universi­ties to stress the value of mathematics as a mental discipline in a college cur­riculum. I expressed the opinion that other things are more essential. You agreed that the liberal arts are the basic training for leadership. It is dangerous to neglect the education of the whole. man. Science and engineering are im­portant in time of war, but unless these studies are implemented with religion, philosophy, and the langruages, we devel­op mechanics, not leaders. Automatons, not men. I have said before, and I .say now, that the ultimate strength of a na­tion, like the strength of an individual, lies in the things of the spirit. 
"Speaking of the things of the spirit. Admiral, reminds me that the attitude of the young men who will soon be in the service would do your heart good. They will sacrifice for the cause; they will make the supreme sacrifice if need he. But I must tell you this: They are clear-minded; their eyes are open; they are thinking of the future. They will have something to say about the course that events will take when this crusade for the preservation of God-given rights 
has ended. As Lincoln would say, they 
are resolved that these honored dead will 
not have died in vain. 
"We will keep the faith. We may have practice blackouts, but we must also have a permanent bloc-out to destroy all subversive forces that threaten from Volume 24, No. 3, June, 1946 
within. And throughout it all, religion must be the ceiling. If God is to be on our side, we must deserve to have Him there. But this idea is nothing new. Our national heritage is Chnstian. Let us re­turn to it. Even a war may not be too great a price to pay to get back where we belong. Blood, sweat, and tears may be our lot, but if America is still Amer­ica, she will survive this triduum of sorrow. And if she is buoyed up by faith, hope, and charity, she can emerge from her ordeal stronger than ever. 
"Tonight the spirit of Notre Dame and the spirit of the Navy blend in the spirit of America as the strains of Anchors Atveigh mingle with our Alma Mater Song. One hundred and fifty Notre Dame clubs are listening, as I hope you may be—somewhere in the Pacific. May God keep you and all your men. May Mary, the Star of the Sea, g^uide your battle forces as your ships roll over the blue Pacific. May she protect you as, mindful of the heroes of Bataan, you seek out the enemy in the best traditions of John Barry and John Paul Jones, of Lawrence and Perry. We will keep you in our prayers." 
That, Admiral, in substance, is what I said to you on that April night moi-e than four years ago. Admiral John Downes, then Commandant of the Ninth Naval District, was present. So were one thousand midshipmen—future officers of the United States Navy—^who were us­ing our facilities as they fitted them­selves for their responsibilities. You may be interested to know that during the last four years more than 12,000 ensigns have been commissioned at Notre Dame. Seven thousand V-12 trainees have stud­ied in our classrooms under members of our faculty; and, as you see, the Naval 
R.O.T.C. unit, which you helped to es­tablish, is still a part of Notre Dame.. And the number of Notre Dame men in service that I told you about increased from 1,000 to 10,000. Hundreds of them are sitting before you now. They have come back to Our Lady's School to finish the education that the war interrupted. But three hundred and ten ^vill never come back. They have given their lives for God and Country. On one of your future visits to the campus. Admiral, you will see an Adoration Chapel which we shall erect as a lasting memorial to Notre Dame's valiant sons in World War II living and dead. 
Yes, history has been made since the uncertain days of April, 1942, and you have certainly made history since then. You have come home from the wars— "home is the sailor, home from the sea" —acclaimed a hero , a recognized leader among leaders to whom Ameri­cans look up. We of Notre Dame have watched you with the aTectionate pride 
of a long-standing friendship. We have 
kept you in our prayers, as we said we 
would. 
In all fairness. Admiral, we should 
tell you that we are depending on your 
wisdom and vision now, just as much as 
we did up to V-J Day. You, who did so 
much to win the war, can do much to 
win the peace. I know you may say that 
you are not a statesman. Perhaps not. 
But you have position and influence, and, 
what is more, you have the kind of old-
fashioned common sense that we like at 
Notre Dame. This is an old-fashioned 
school. We believe in principles of right 
and wrong as they apply to individuals 
and nations. 
And, being old-fashioned, we are trou­bled about a number of things. For ex­ample, we sense—as I know you do—an increasing disregard for the axiom that the American heritage is essentially a Christian heritage. Here at Notre Dame we still teach the truths that you learned as a boy and young man in Fredericks­burg, Texas; that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights. In other words, we have an appreciation of the relationship between God and His creatures. 
As we look around us in the world we see a pattern forming. We see the battle line being drawn between two forces: the forces of God and those of anti-God. On the one side are those who accept the natural law and recognize natural rights flowing from that law. They acknowledge the dignity of man because of God-given rights. On the other side are the forces of atheism and secularism which believe that man exists for the state, and not the state for man as the protector of his God-given rights. Like a great many other people, we have been wondering how these two forces can be reconciled so that we will have a firm basis for a lasting peace. 
Actually we know that they can never be reconciled, that there can be no com­promise between them. The two won't mix, any more than oil and water will. At the same time, we can see no salva­tion for the world unless we return to the faith of our founding fathers. It seems to us that we had a livelier sense of that faith when we went to war than we have now. We remember very well how the late President Roosevelt said: "We are fighting for security and prog­ress and for peace, not only for ourselves but for all men, not only for our genera­tion, but for all generations. We are fighting to cleanse the world of ancient evils, ancient ills .. . we are inspired by a faith that goes back through the ages to the first chapter of the book of Gene­sis—^God created men in His own image.' .. . We are fighting, as our fathers have fought, to uphold the doctrine that all men are equal in the sight of God." 
Maybe we are sentimentalist^.-But it does seem to us that if this doctrine was worth fighting for, it is worth practicing now. If we practiced what we preach then conquered nations would not be handled according to plans conceived in hate and bom in iniquity. Instead, a Christ-like charity would prevail, and the world would be rid of a gn^eat deal of bitterness and antagonism that we have been building up. The American spirit of fair play demands this. A na­tion has a right to existence as much as an individual has. This is not only good logic but good ethics as well. The moral law requires it. Truly the sins of a few in power should not be visited on the entire, population of a nation, so that that nation may not survive. 
It occurs to us. Admiral, that our ap­proach to the postwar is wrong. There is too much emphasis on expediency, and not enough on principle. For example, under the duress of war secret commit­ments are sometimes made, but we can­not see how our leaders, in conscience, can make commitments that are against the common good. And speaking of com­mitments, it certainly seems that in the case of Poland, principle has been sacri­ficed to expediency. Yet, we know that we were at war before Pearl Harbor, that although no declaration had been made, we were waging a de-facto war in behalf of England which, iii turn, had gone to the aid of Poland in September, 1939, because of commitments made by treaty. And we remember that Hilaire Belloc, the distinguished English histori­an, said years ago that World War II will have been won or lost in so far as Poland is resurrected. It occurs to me that Poland is the test as to whether we. shall have a peace based on principle or expediency. 
And you know,' Admiral, some of us are perplexed that our country should be a party to a movement to interfere in the internal affairs of another nation. The fact is we are amazed that the United Nations should permit a quisling to bring charges against a nation that helped the allies win the battle of North Africa. Now if the Security Council of the United Nations is to investigate Spain, we feel that in all justice that Poland, the Balkans and other countries under the rule of Red Fascism should be investigated as well and a report made to the. United Nations. It seems that what is sauce for the goose should be sauce for the gander. Of course, basical­ly, the whole situation is contrary to our country's tradition. As far back as 1S23 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 

we adopted the Monroe Doctrine to pre­vent any European nation's meddling in the internal affairs of any country in the Western Hemisphere. Why should we do an about face now. 
Of course, it may be that we are too near the events .of recent years, and have been too much a part of them, to see them in their true pei-spective. Yet I think you will agree that our part in the last war will have been the most tragic blunder in our history—^that your great work will have been in vain—if we re­treat from the position that is ours be­cause of what I call "the faith of our founding fathers." The peace for which we have striven at such an appalling cost in men and money and materials must be grounded on that faith. Contempt for the moral law led to World War II. Con­tempt for it now is a sure invitation to World War III, a prospect too terrible to contemplate. 
I know. Admiral, that you will not misunderstand the nature and purpose of tht'^se obser\'ations. I just wanted to have a little friendly visit with you in public as I did back in 1942. I have not taken advantage of this occasion to ser­monize—^far from it. I meant every word when I said that we depend on you as much now as we did before the Japanese surrender. -A.nd although the foreign re­lations policy of our country rests with the President and the Senate, we look to you for the leaven of leadership that is so essential to a Christian nation that is devoted to the ways of peace, but also quick to repel foreign aggression and to resist subtle enemies from %Wthin its borders whose insidious attacks would first weaken and then destroy the heri­tage of America. 
It is because of our high regard for you that we have asked you to come here today. Notre Dame rejoices with you in w^hat you have accomplished, knowing that the perspective of history must con­stantly enhance the magnitude of your achievements. She salutes you as the ac­tive head of our Navy that gave such an excellent account of its stewardship in World War II. She welcomes you again to the campus in oi-der that she may in­vest you with the most signal honor within her power to bestow, the coveted Degree of Doctor of Laws honoris cawta. May God be ever with you in your re­sponsible position as Admiral of the Fleet and Chief of Naval Operations. 

Response of Admiral Nimitz 
It is with a humble heart that I re­ceive this great honor. I accept it with gratitude in behalf of those thousands upon thousands who labored and suf­fered to bring victory in the Pacific, as a symbol of Notre Dame appreciation for their toil and accomplishment. 
Few institutions, not excepting the two great service academies, have con­tributed more than Notre Dame in pre­paring young men for the arduous and dangerous duty of driving a cunning and powerful enemy back across the sea. There are nearly 10,000 men who can speak proudly of having won their com­missions in the Navy at this great uni­versity. 
Father O'Donnell, you sent forth to me, as to other naval commands on every ocean and continent, men who had become imbued with more than the mechanical knowledge of warfai-e. 
Somehow, in the crowded hours of their preparation for the grim business of war, they absorbed not only Notre Dame's traditional fighting spirit, but the spiritual strength, too, that this University imparts to all, regardless of creed, who come under its influence. 
The naval chapter in Notre Dame's history is closing. Statistically, 12,269 men attended midshipmen school here, and 9,099 were commissioned in the Naval Reserve, 290 in the Marines. Some 2,200 graduated from your V-12 program. An appreciable number have decided to make the Navy their career. The beneficent influence of this Univer­sity on the Navy will be felt far into the future. 
 have said before that the greatest weapon the United States brought to bear in this war was education. It was the greatest, because without it none other was possible. Without education, the God-given wealth of material re­sources our country possesses could not have been so eflfectively utilized for its defense. 
By that, I mean not only the genius of America, trained in universities and laboratories to extract nature's deepest secrets—the relatively few chemists and physicists who, for example, harnessed atomic energy. I mean also the millions of beneficiaries of the country's educa­tional system whose trained intelligence enabled them to use the products of gen­ius with understanding and without awe. 
The boys and girls of the public and parochial schools, of the public and pri­vate high schools, college and universi­ties total not only in quantity but in proportion the greatest aggregate of in­itiative and mental power in the world. 
The sailor or soldier who blindly obeys an order just because it is an order is no match for the soldier or sail­or who understands what his contribu­tion means to the mass effort. In the Pacific we opposed an enemy whose equipment was occasionally as good as our best, and sometimes better. His pa­triotism and morale was as high as our own. But the Japanese sailor, soldier and marine was not trained to think. 
His function was to hear and believe and obey. Ours was a comprehending discipline' and his was but blind obedi­ence. 
American boys had been taught to thinki They had been taught to think back in the third grade, thx-oughout high school, on the baseball diamond and football gridiron as well as in the class room. That ability, coupled with tra­ditional American initiative, is as mean­ingful in peace-time as in war-time. It is an atti-ibute in business and the pro­fessions. It is as necessary to the arts, the sciences, and the trades, as it is to war. And, finally, it is as necessary to the greatest human accomplishment of all, the art of living. 
The art of living is not a solitary pursuit. It is a pursuit which must be followed gregariously, in company. It is a family affair, and a community affair, and then it penetrates to world affairs. 
Peace will be only an interlude be­tween wars unless all of us learn the art of living in global community. It took nearly a decade for the similar-minded, like-speaking thirteen original states to agree upon a program of national unity. Let us have patience with the United Nations, as it struggles with diverse speech and radically differing economic systems to produce an organization ded­icated to the maintenance of peace — of peace by example and cooperation if possible, of peace maintained by police force if necessary. 
In that, the United States must do its part. The United States is no abstx-act authority residing in Washington. The United States is the average person, who, like yourself, is living as an in­dividual proud of his liberties, conscious of his responsibility to his neighbor, participating in his government, self-disciplined by education, and, by educa­tion, inspired to further God's will on this earth. 
Volume 24, No. 3, June. 1946 
who has charge of Latin American 
courses at present, will concentrate on 
Spanish and Portuguese literature, so 

LaFortune Gives $100,000 
Joseph A. LaFortune, 'f6, Contributes 
to Unrestricted 

The gift of $100,000 for unrestricted endowment from Joseph A. LaFortune, '16, alumnus and lay tmstee of the Uni­versity, was announced to the May meet­ing of the Boai'd of Trustees by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president; of the University. 
Joseph A. loFortune 

Mr. LaFortune, vice-president of the Warren Petroleum Co., Tulsa, has long been interested in the development of the University. A native of South Bend, he knew Notre Dame from childhood and the priests and brothers who have worked through recent years to bring it to its present high plane. 
Active in the Notre Dame Club of Ok­lahoma, and since 1941 a member of the Board of Lay Trustees, Mr. LaFortune is familiar with the need of the Uni­versity for increased endowment to meet the multiple oppoi-tunities and obliga­tions that the war years and their after­math have brought. His gift is stimulat­ing not only by-its generosity but by its freedom from restrictions, permitting its use to the maximum benefits of ad­ministrative judgment. 
Mr. LaFortune, married and the fa­ther of four children, began his business career with the Northern Indiana Gas and Electric Co. of South Bend, moving from that company to the Standard Oil Co. He served in World War I in naval aviation, later directing Red Cross phy­sical programs. 
 Endowment Fund 
Going to Tulsa, he broke into the oil business through journalism, serving on the World and later the National Petro­leum Nexvs. He joined Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association and in 1924 he be­came secretary of the Warren Petro­leum Co. In 1929 he became vice-presi­dent of the company, his present posi­tion. He has added other offices and ac­tivities, including vice-presidency of the Natural Gasoline Corp. and the Amexi­can Natui'al Gasoline Co., the ti-easurer­ship of the DuMar Oil and Gas Co., the Coi'pus Christi Coi-p., and the presiden­cy of the Natural Gasoline Corp. of America. His hobbies are golf and foot­ball, including the Tulsa Downtown Quarterback's Club (and you recall Tulsa football). 
All alumni must join the University in a deep appreciation of this generous benefaction. 
LATIN AMERICAN COURSES 

Increased interest in Latin America has prompted the University to install several new courses in Latin American history, which courses \n\\ be offered with the beginning of the fall semester. 
By the addition to the faculty of Dr. Thomas E. Downey, an authority on Latin American history, Notre Dame will be able to offer several varied courses dealing with the individual South Ameri­can countries. Prof. Walter Langford, 

f ft ? 

vital to a proper understanding of Latin American history. 
In addition to the general courses in the history of countries south of our border, two new courses,. "History of Argentina, Brazil, and Chile," and "The Republics of South America," •will be of­fered, in the fall semester. In the spring semester of 1947 two more courses, "The History of the Caribbean Area," and "The History of Mexico," will be added. 
HANLEy ART EXHIBITED 

A watercolor of Pope Pius XII receiv­ing Allied soldiers at the Vatican in a special audience is among paintings and drawings executed during World War II by Francis J. Hanley, professor of Fine Arts in the University, a recent naval lieutenant. The collection was recently on display in the Wightman Art Galler­ies at Notre Dame. 
The display was describe 1 by critics as "among the best to come out of the war." Professor Hanley's drawings and paint­ings, executed in the Mediterranean Theatre of Operations, represent impres­sions of North African ports during combat operations, as well as scenes of the United States and British Navies in action on the invasion beaches of Sici­ly, Salerno, Anzio and Southern France. 
A special section of the exhibit is de­voted to oil paintings of Stations of the Cross designed and executed by Lieuten­ant Hanley for Our Lady of Victory Chapel of the United States Navy at Bizerte, Tunisia. 
^*- V* 
%" # 

These seminarians comprise the Congregation's class to be ordoinecl at Notre Dame on Jime 24. Standing. left to right Casimir CxapUcld< Howard Kulms. An­thony Lauck. Charles Houser. Joseph Murphy. Robert Lockner. William Brinker. Joseph Bogusz. John Payne, George Cockshott, Allen Cormier. Balph Davis. James Doll. Walter GoB. Seated. left to right. Paul Waldschmidt. Vmiiom ISekens. John Daly. John Sheridan, Joseph Rehage. and Henry Malone. 
The Notre Dome Alumnus 


Financial Report of the University 
DEAK FRIENDS OF NOTEE DAJIE: 

In accordance with established practice, the University presents herewith its statement of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1945, as prepared by Pearson and Dwyer, certified public accountants. 111 West Monroe St, Chicago, 111. 
OPERATIONS FOE THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1945 
RECEIVED: . From tuition and student fees; U. S. Navy; Interest on general endowment; returns from scholarships; and from all auxiliary operations, including athletics ?4,207,213.70 
PAID OUT: 

For the operation of all Colleges of the University—Arts and Letters, Science, Law, Engineering, and Commerce (including ad­ministrative and faculty salaries, pensions, etc.) as well as opera­tion of the Graduate School; for interhall athletics, student activi­ties, and publications; for operation of residence halls, dining halls, infirmary, laundry, Rockne Memorial, golf course, and general maintenance , $4,233,053.41 
Net Loss from University and Auxiliary operations ? 25,839.71 
RECEIVED: 

From miscellaneous sources, exclusive of University and auxiliary operations (interest on investments, profits from sale of securi­ties, bad debt recoveries, property rentals, etc.) $ 30,030.63 
Net credit to surplus (to be used for purchase of new laboratory, shop, classroom equipment, additions to libraries, for research, graduate departments, etc.) § 4,190.92 
While the amount to be credited to and that our facilities be maintained. surplus is very small compared with the The Alumni Fund played an all-import­figures involved in our operations, the ant part in carrying out these objectives. administration is deeply grateful to God Costs in our graduate division have also that it was able to conclude one of the mounted steadily and the need of more most critical years of its existence with­endowment is great if this program is out drawing on its meagre reserves. to be continued. 
Within the next few months I will During the period ended June 30, 1945, publish our operating statement for the the civilian enrollment fell off sharply year ending June 30, 1946. The trend because of the war, and towards the of decreased enrollment alluded to above end of the period the number of Navy continued until the last semester of the students trained on campus decreased current scholastic year and the use of from 3,000 to 1,600. Our program \vith facilities by the United States Navy the United States Navy permitted a also decreased correspondingly. It is recovery of established cost only, and expected that student income from this the curtailment of this training program last semester will not offset the un­resulted in an appreciable decrease in satisfactory results of our operations income. Despite the higher costs of food, for the previous eight months. Your of maintenance of University facilities, continued support during this difficult despite moimting salaries for all Uni­period of our reconversion will be deep­versity personnel, the administration is ly appreciated by myself and all mem­proud to report that it was able to re­bers of the administration. 

fund to the Navy a total of §43,000 during this period. Sincerely yours, 
(Rev.) J. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C, 

It was necessary even in this restricted operation that our faculty be retained, President of the University. 

VETERANS GUIDANCE CENTER 
The Veterans Guidance Center at 
Notre Dame, under the direction of 
Russell C. Bowers, is carrying on a pro­
gram of tests which are designed to place veterans in jobs or courses of study for which they are most suited. Applicants from 11 counties in northern ' Indiana are interviewed in the offices of the Center, which are located in what 
used to be Brownson Hall. 
All veterans who are seeking training 
under Public Law 16 (which applies to 
disabled vets) must first be interviewed 
either by Mr. Bowers or by one of his 
assistants, all of whom are trained in 
personnel work and in psychology. After 
the initial interview the vet must take 
the series of tests which range from 
mechanical ability and motor dexterity 
tests to the more involved personality 
and interest inventories and mental 
ability tests. All tests are administered 
by Edward Quinn of the University stu­
dent personnel staff, under the terms of 
a special cooperative agreement between 
the VA and Notre Dame. 
The opening of the sub-regional office 
of the Veterans Administration in South 
Bend some time this summer will have 
no appreciable effect on the operation 
of the Guidance Center, 
TWO HISTORICAL STUDIES 
Two studies prepared under the direc­
tion of the Department of History on 
Polish immigration and early pioneer 
accomplishments have been published in 
recent months. Father Joseph Swastek's 
"The Poles in South Berid to 1914" has 
been published in the December, 1945, 
issue of Polish-American Studies. An­
other study. The Polish Immigrant in 
Detroit to 19H by Sister Mary Remigia 
Napolska, Felician O.S.F., has just come 
off the press as volume 10 of The 
Annals of the Polish, R. C. Union and 
Archives. Both studies are based upon 
a close examination of primary sources, 
especially material in the Polish lan­
gniage, and were submitted to the Grad­
uate School as part fulfillment of the 
requirements for the master's degree. 
MEIGS AT NOTRE DAME 
Christian missionaries have "an vai­paralleled opportunity" to win the Japa­nese people to Christianity, according to General of the Armies Douglas Mac­Arthur, Supreme Allied Commander in the Pacific, as quoted by Merrill Meigs, vice-president of the Hearst Corp. 
Mr. Meigs, internationally known as a newspaper executive and aviation au­thority, made this statement in a recent address at Notre Dame before the Vet­erans Club. 

Volume 24, No. 3, June, 1946 



Plans for Alumni Reunion are Announced 
To Be Held June 28. 29, and 30; Festivities Will Have Much of Pre-War Ravor, Even with Restricting CondKions; Cardinal Stritch of Chicago to Give Baccalaureate Sermon on June 30 
From the accompanying program, it wll be evident that the 101st Com­mencement of the University offers a lot of the pre-war flavor. (Commence­ments were suspended, you recall, with the 100th in October, 1943, to be fol­lowed by less formal convocations until this resumption of the fuller program.) 
However, conditions are still far from the happier years, and the Uni­versity and the Alumni Board join in simply advising possible modifications in the program to meet emergencies. This is not to be construed as discourag­ing attendance. It simply serves to off­set the expectations of those who may still be under the spell of "Weekend at the Waldorf," etc. 
Residence in the halls on the campus will be provided wherever possible, and should accommodate at least a full pre­war complement of alumni. The specific halls to be occupied are not announced. Reunion groups OTII be housed in yeai brackets that should facilitate contacts, despite the absence of ofiicial Class Re­unions. 
The Alumni Banquet is still just a headache in the University Dining Halls, but it is hoped that the after-dinner speeches on that occasion will be preceded by some form of nourishment, whatever and however acquired. 
Outstanding in reflecting the tenor of this 1946 gathering of alumni will be the Solemn Requiem Mass for the de­ceased alumni of World War II to be sung in Sacred Heart Church on Satur­day, June 29, at 9 A.M. by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C. 
Samuel Cardinal Stritch, archbishop of Chicago, will give the Baccalaureate Sermon on Sunday morning. As the ALUMNUS went to press, it was an­nounced that Senator Arthur H. Van­denberg of Michigan had been forced to cancel his scheduled Commencement address for Sunday afternoon. There was, at this point, no word as to an­other speaker. 
The University golf course, swim­ming, tennis, etc., will be open for the golf tournament and general relaxation program. Inasmuch as most of the re­turning alumni will be service men anx­ious to see the campus and each other, a lot of time is going to be left available for the gentle art of sitting. 
TENTATIVE COMMENCEMENT PROGRAM 
FRIDAY, JUNE 28 
Alumni Registration Golf and other informal sports 

6:00 P. M. Informal Class dinners per Class arrangements 
7:00 P. M. Band concert. Main Quadrangle 
8:15 P.M. Glee Concert, Washington Hall 
S.4TURDAY, JUNE 29 
Alumni Registration, golf, etc. 

9:00 A.M. Requiem High Mass, Sacred Heart Church in memory of the Notre Dame dead of World War II 
10:00 A.M. Senior Last Visit (private ceremony) 
10:30 A.M. Class Day Exercises and Award of Prizes, Washington Hall 
2:00 P. M. Baseball, Great Lakes vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field 
6:00 P.M. Alumni Bai^quet, University Dining Halls 
SUNDAY, JUNE 30 I 

8:30 A.M. Academic Procession, Main Building to Church 
9:00 A. M. Baccalaureate Mass, the sermon by His Eminence, Samuel Cardinal Stritch, Archbishop of Chicago Followed by Blessing and Raising of Flag 
12:00 M. Monogram Luncheon, University Dining Halls 
4:00 P. M. Conferring of Degrees, University Drill Hall 
KINGS COLLEGE TO OPEN has been installed and a large order for books placed. Fully accredited by the Pennsylvania 
The faculty of Kings College will in­State Council of Education as a four-clude priests of the Cong^regation, as year college. Kings CoUege, a new insti­well as lay professors. The college has tution operated by the Congregation of been empowered to grant degrees of Holy Cross, is preparing to open next Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Sci-
September at Kingston, Pa., near Scran­
ton, Pa., and has begun to enroll students. 
CATHOUC H01]B AODBESSES 

This announcement was made by the Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C, '20, 
Bev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, CS. C president of Kings College, formerly 
preiidant oi the UniTeznty. on May registrar of Notre Dame. Father Conner­
25 delivered the final a{ hia aeries ton said that application forms are being 
oi iive addresses on the Cotholie mailed to nearly 300 applicants for en­
Hour via N3.C. on the general rollment in the new college. Scores of subject, "Hal Holy Queen." veterans are seeking admission as stu­
Thonsands ol alumni doubtless dents. 
heard Father ODonnell over the 
air and many oi these have writ­Plans are under way for construction ten to him to express their enthna­of a $1,000,000 college plant. Father asm and opisreciatioB. Those who Connerton . added. College and faculty wish to have pamphlets contain­buildings are being completed as rapidly ing the addresses should write to as possible, he declared, and completion the National Conndl o{ Catholic is expected before the opening of the fall 

Men. Washington, D. C. term in September. A spacious library 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

sible, and they should not be distracted by extraneous worries. (3) For tha same 
St. Louis Cliib's Cana Conference 
reason there should be a third committee to take care of the children during the 
Family Retreat for Strengthening-
time of the retreat. 
Marriage Bonds Favorably Received 
Experiences such as this i-ecent one in 

Appi-oximately 35 couples attended the Cana Conference conducted for the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis at the Sacred Heart Academy on Palm Sun­day, 1946. The four-hour conference began promptly at two o'clock with a short introductory talk by Robert T. Hellrung, '30, and the remainder of the afternoon was completely under the di­rection of Father Edward Dowling, S.J., of Queen's Work. 
Problems of the modern couple with regard to marriage were the subject matter of his talks—the various econom­ic, psychological, and moral influences that the modern world brings to bear upon the couple trying to live a Chris­tian family life. Most of the difficulties arise. Father Dowling pointed out, from the fact that the husband and wife live and work apart most of the day under very fatiguing circumstances and then come together only when they are phy­sically and perhaps mentally worn out. 
The conferences themselves were thi'ee in number. In the first the major con­sideration was the necessity for soul union in addition to body union; the stress was laid upon the diiferent psy­chology of man and of woman, the great question of obedience in the family—the fact that the part of each member of the family is decreed by Divine Provi­dence and is complementaiy to that of the other. 
After the Intel-mission — a well-pre­pared luncheon which enabled the con­ferees to get acquainted, to air opinions, and to get rid of stiffness and tension— Father Dowling treated the attitude to­ward money and the many problems it entails. The emphasis was not on money itself, but on attitudes toward it, which must vary in men and women. The whole purpose of this e-xtremely forceful psy­chological approach was to make both the husband and the wife understand each other's point of view. 
In- the final conferences, just before renewal of the marriage vows, the mat­ter of suffering was discussed. Into this session was brought the problem of chil­dren. But especially pointed out was the necessity for using all the pains and aches and discomfitures, both physical and moral, to enrich the individuals and the-family as a whole. 
Climax of the day came at 5:30 p.m.; the couples proceeded to the church where they renewed their marriage vows just as they had solemnly pro­nounced them at the time of their mar­riage. The ceremony had been previously explained by Father Dowling; after­ward Benediction of the Blessed Sacra­ment was given, and the Cana Confer­ence was over. 
Cana Conferences ai-e an outgrowth of the Family Retreat movement. Father Joseph Delaney, S.J., gave the first fam­ily retreat in the Chicago area at the Sacred Heart Convent in .A.ugust, 1944. He followed the pattern which he had used with great success in conducting retreats in New York, and the enthusi­asm of the retreatants was unanimous. Several members of the original Catho­lic Action group of Chicago had the good fortune to hear Father Delaney. 

Because the family-retreat idea was so appealing, these Catholic Action groups of Chicago, • among whom there are a good many Notre Dam.e gx-aduates, de­cided that family retreats would be a splendid project and one wth real possi­bilities for success. Arrangements were made to conduct them at Childerly, Loy­ola University, Mallinkrot, and other places in Chicago. In St. Louis, Father Dowling took up the idea with great vigor and instituted his series of Cana Conferences. 
The family retreat, or Cana Confer­ence, has for its purpose to help unite husband and wife (and even the whole family if complete family retreats, in­cluding children, are held). The Confer­ence is usually held at a very convenient time for husbands and wives and in an infonnal atmosphere. For greatest suc­cess it should be an occasion for both spiritual reevaluation and relaxation from family duties. Informality and con­venience, therefore, are of the greatest psychological im.portance. 
Three main committees are needed to perform the organizational -work in­volved in preparing and conducting the Cana Conference: (1) A committee is required, to contact the couples and the director of the Conference; the priest conducting it must be well acquainted with this kind of retreat, and the con­ferences should not be held in a chapel, but in a large meeting room with a con­venient and informal seating arrange­ment. (2) Another committee should handle refreshments; there must be as much leisure for the retreatants as pos­St. Louis have shown that with proper planning and preparation the Cana Con­ferences constitute a very fruitful project for adult Catholic Action groups. The new depths of understanding at­tained concerning married life and its problems is a real blessing for Catholic families; and the response is uniformly favoi-able—indeed, enthusiastic. 
STRITCH JOURNALISM HEAD 

The appointment of Thomas J. Stritch as head of the department of joui:nalism at Notre Dame, succeeding the late Dr. John M. Cooney, was announced by Rev. 
J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president, in April. A native of Nashville, Tenn., Mr. Stritch was graduated from Notre Dame in 1934 and received his master's degree a year later. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1935 and at the time of his departure in 1942 to enter the Navy he v.'as an associate professor in the Eng-
Thomas I. Stritch 

lish department. Serving more than three years in the Navy, he saw action as a commander of landing craft during the invasions of Sicily and Salerno. Later he was commandant of the Navy's V-12 program at Lawrence College, Appleton, Wis., and at the University of Richmond, Richmond, Va. During his student days Mr, Stritch was on the staff of the South Bend Tribune and later worked for the Dayton, 0., Jowtial and the 
Nashville Banner. 
Volume 24, No. 3, June, 1946 

FOR GOD, COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME 
IN GLORy EVERLASTING 
Lt. Wayne J. O'Connor, ex. '43, Ab­erdeen, S. D., was killed in action in Germany on Nov. 11, 1943, according to word received only recently in the Alumni office. At the time of his death he was the pilot of a P-47 "Thundei-­bolt," and had completed about 70 mis­sions over enemy territory. 
Wayne I. O'Connor Gerald T. Ward 
WajTie left Notre Dame in his sopho­more year to enter the Ai-my Air Corps. He was sent to Chickasha, Okla., on Oct. 1, 1941, and received his training thei-e and at Randolph and Ellington fields, Texas. After receiving his wings and commission on April 29, 1942 he re­ported to Mitchel Field, Long Island, and began training as a fighter pilot. He arrived in England on Jan. 12, 1943 and flew his iirst mission in combat about the middle of May. On Nov. 11 he failed to return from a mission, and it was only a short time ago that cap­tured German records were found to contain evidence of his death. His plane had crashed about two miles north of Greven, Germany and he had been bur­ied in the prisoner of war cemetery at Hans Spttal, Munster, GeiTnany. 
Wayne had been awarded the Distin­guished Flying Cross with one cluster, the Air Medal with three clusters, and the Purple Heart. 
Pfc. Gerald T. Ward, ex. '46, of Peor­ia, 111., was killed in action on Luzon April 19, 1945. At the time of his death he was acting leader of a machine gun squad. 
Gerald left Notre Dame to enter the sei-vice on March 3, 1943. Becei-n'ng his basic training at Camp Roberts, Calif., he went overseas in August of the same year. He was a veteran of the fighting at Guadalcanal and Bougainville and later moved with his outfit, the 37th Division, into the battle of Manila. He held the Purple Heai-t, the Bronze Star, the Good Conduct Medal and the Combat Infantryman Badge. 
Surviving besides his parents are two brothers and two sisters. 
Sgt. James D. Brogger, ex. '45, Grand Rapids, Mich., officially missing in ac­tion in Europe since Feb. 7, 1945, was declared by the War Depai-tment to have been killed. Jim left the University in February, 1943, to enter the Ai-my Air Forces. 
He sei'ved at vai'ious posts in the United States, finally leaving for over­seas duty in October, 1944. He w-as a nose gunner on a B-24 and had complet­ed several missions over enemy terri­tory. On Feb. 7, on a mission to Vienna the plane was hit by flak and only one man, the co-pilot, escaped death. Jim had been awarded the Air Medal, and was, posthumously, awarded the Purple Heart. He is sui-vived by his parents and three brothers. 
William J. Springer, S2, Chicago, a former V-12 student in the University, was killed as the result of an accident on May 7 at Hunter's Point, near San Francisco. Helping to unload a Navy ship. Bill stepped behind a truck during a lull in the work, to escape a strong wind. The tx-uck backed' up and crushed him and he died in the evening of the same day. 
Of his immediate family, only Bill's sister survives him; his parents are dead. He was buried in Chicago on May 14. 
Deaf As Already Reported 
(This section contains additional in­formatio?i about Notre Dame me7i whose deaths in the armed forces were re­ported in earlier issues of the ALUJI­.xus). 
Lf. John L. Crane, Jr., '40, of Dun­kirk, N. Y., has been presumed by the War Department to be dead after being missing in action since Jan. 22, 1943. John, the navigator on a B-24 in the South Pacific, was on a search mission in the vicinity of Wewak, New Guinea, at the time he was declared missing in action. 
After leaving Notre Dame John, in­tending to enter Georgetown law school. 
u 

accepted temporary employment with the Allegheny-Ludlom Steel miU in Dunkirk. In March, 1941, he enlisted in the Army and later transferred to the Air Corps, where he was commis­sioned the following year. On Aug. 19, 1942, he was married to Miss Louise Gabel in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. Early in October, 1942, he departed for overseas duty, and had completed sev­eral missions before the final one in January. 
Lt. Frank M. Cuticle, ex. '45, Provi­dence, K. I., former football end, was reported missing in action over Ger­many as of Jan. 2, 1945 (rather than 
John L. Crane Frank M. Cuaick 

Jan. 23, 1945, as reported in the April ALUMNUS), In January, 1946, he was declared by the War Depai-tment to be officially dead. 
Assigned to the Eighth Anny Air Force, Frank was a navigator on a B-17 and had flown several missions over Europe. He was awarded the Distin­guished Flying Cross, the Purple Heart and the Air Medal with tivo clusters. , 
O'GRADY IS HONORED 

Dr. Daniel C. O'Grady, of the Depart­ment of Philosophy, has been appointed associate editor of The Netv Scholasti­cism, which is the official magazine of the American Catholic Philosophical As­sociation. In lata May Dr. O'Grady par­ticipated in a panel on Military Law held in Buffalo as part of the National Con­gress of Social Work. 
ENGINEERS NEEDED 

The Bureau of Aeronautics, Navy De­partment, is in need of qualified aero­nautical engineers to fill civilian posi­tions in Washington, D. C. The ivork involved deals with all phases ot aero­nautical engineering. The department is also interested in mechanical, chemical, electrical, and radio engineers. All of these positions require some experience. Salaries range..from.$2980 to ?875P a 
year. • •;,:• ; .-: ­
The.Notre Dame Alumnus 
grades with the necessary facilities will be added. Limiting the enrollment of 

Holy Cross Brothers Open School 
classes to 15 students is but one of the many features planned for the purpose 

Gilmour Academy located at Gates 
of establishing and maintaining an aca­Mills, Ohio is to be a Prep School demic discipline conducive to the highest 
The opening of Gilmour Academy at Gates Mills, O., by the Brothers of Holy Cross, is the fulfillment of a long felt need in the midwest for a resident col­lege preparatory school operated in har­mony with the ideals and social atmos­phere of moderately well-to-do families. 
The interest in Gilmour among Catho­lic parents is proof of the wisdom and foresight in the selection of the Drury Estate, in suburban Cleveland, as a site for a school of this type. Moreover, the enthusiasm among Notre Dame alumni who have been looking for such a school for thdr sons, is not only an encour­agement to the administration, but also a prediction for a successful future for the Academy. 
In planning the conversion of the es­tate into a preparatory school of limited enrollment, all the beauty of the build­ings and the landscape have been pre­served. The facilities of Tudor House, Andre Hall, and Vincent Hall ai'e ideally adapted to small group instruction upon 
which special emphasis will be placed. Tudor House with its extensive stone and woodwork, is one of the finest exam­ples of Tudor architecture in America. These buildings house the chapel, admin­istrative offices, parlors, lounges, class­rooms, study rooms, library, residential units, dining rooms, kitchens, recreation halls and hobby shops. The two-story Rockne Gymnasium provides facilities for all the indoor sports. The 133-acre campus, including St. Mary's Lake and a 30-acre wooded area, offers opportuni­ties for an unlimited variety of outdoor athletic activities including football, baseball, tennis, volleyball, handball, boating, bait-casting, skating, hiking, 
and riding. 
In the organization and operation of Gilmour Academy a progressive develop­ment is planned in order to allow for a natural expansion according to the needs of the new institution. In September, 1946, therefore, the enrollment will be limited to freshmen and eighth grade students. Year by year the successive 

' Main house at Gilmour Academy, 'with members of Notre Dame Club o{ Clere­lahd. Left to right Frank I. McGroder, Jr.. Clayton G.'Leroux, chairman oi Voca­tional Guidonee Committee: A. J. Hammer. Jr., treasurer; Brother Loyola Cbristoph. CS.CJ Father Tern Cuiran, C.S.C»- Brother Theophane, C.S.C- Thomas F. Byrne, 
'pie^dent ol Alumni Association: Joseph A.'Breig. chairman Catholic Action com­mittee; Norman I. McLeod. 
standards of scholarship. 
The faculty of Holy Cross Brothers, supplemented by lay instructors and a resident nurse, will be announced in July. Located at the Academy at the present time are Brother Theophane Schmitt, C.S.C., headmaster; Kev. Thomas Cur­ran, C.9.C., chaplain; Brother Christo­pher Bauer, C.S.C, Brother Loyola Christoph, C.S.C, and Brother Gonzaga Day, CS.C. 
GALVIN IS LAY TRUSTEE 

Timothy P. Galvin, '16, Hammond, Ind. attorney, deputy supreme knight of the Knights of Columbus and former president of the Alumni Association, was elected a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University, at the board's semi-annual meeting on May 10. 
Tim succeeds as a trustee the late John H. Neeson, '03, former commission­er of public works in Philadelphia, who died last December. 
The new trustee has been especially active in the Knights of Columbus. After serving as grand knight of the Val­paraiso district, he was elected as stat« deputy of the Knights in Indiana in 1925 and continued in that office for a period of three years. He also has been a member of the Knights of Columbus Gibault Home Commission, a delinquent boys' home at Terre Haute, Ind., con­ducted by the Brothers of the.Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, since 1928. 
Tim was elected a member of the Supreme Board of Directors of the Knights of Columbus in 1933. In Jan­uary, 1941, he -was elected supreme master of the Fourth Degree of the Knights of Columbus but has since re­signed that post. Early this year he was named deputy supreme knight. He is a knight of St. Gregory. 
Married to Graziella Chevigny, sister of the late John E. Chevigny, '31, Tim is the father of three children. 
ON NAVY ADVISORY COMMinEE 

Kev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, presi­dent, has been named by Secretary of the Navy James V. Forrestal as a mem­ber of a committee of 55 men and three women to act as a navy civilian advisory committee. This is the first such com­mittee in navy history, and will advise the navy on non-military policy and pro­grams for dealing with navy personnel. 
Volume 24, No. 3, June, 1946 
of Freedom, ^so in four movements. The 
CAMPUS ACTIVITIES: STUDENTS program conclnded by featuring the bril­
SONS OF ALUMNI Kev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, held an informal reception on April 16 for the 33 students who are sons of Notre Dame alumni. Jim Armstrong- arranged the affair and introduced the students to Father O'Donnell. In a short, informal talk Father O'Donnell outlined the prob­lems of the modem world and stressed the need for fathers and sons to use their Notre Dame training in solving these problems. He also expressed the appreciation which the University felt toward these alumni who implied a dec­laration of faith in the University when they send their sons to Notre Dame. 
Those present at the reception were: Joseph D. Becker, La Crosse, Wis.: Carleton 
D. Beh, Jr., Des Koines, la.; Joseph E. Bidwell, River Forest, III.; Martin C. Carroll, Kansas City. Mo.: John A. CulliKan, St. Paul: Robert 
F. Dillon, Butler, Pa.; Jerome L. Dubbs, Hen­dota. III.: Robert C. Fisel, Chicaco; Joseph A. Foley, Watertown, S. Dak.: Richard C. Hcam, Los Angeles; Wiliam W. Hoban, Oak Park. III.: Frederick A. Joyce, Jr., Chicago: Eugene F. Kane, Rocky River, O.: Joseph F. Kestine, To­ledo: Morton J. Lucas, Jr., St. Louis: James Martin, Chesterton, Ind.; Edward McCarthy. VThitins. Ind.: Donnelly P. McDonald. Jr.. Fort Wayne. Ind.: Donald McGrath. St. Joseph, Mich.: John Mills. Jr.. South Bend: Callix Miller. South Bend; Vernon Honteil. Kansas City, Mo.; Pat­rick O'Meara, University City, Mo.: Louis PloufT, Indianapolis; Eric Ray de Castro, Lima, Peru; 
R. Michael Riordan, Ludington. Mich.; Thomas 
S. Riordan, Ludington, Mich.; Andrew J. Rohan, Cincinnati; Bobert Kolwing, Cairo, III.: Quirico 
M. St. George, Chicago: Herbert P. Valker, Oak Park. III.; John R. Welch. Indianapolis: and Maurice F. Zink, Canton, O. 
LATIN AMEBICANS Continuing long-standing inter-Amer­ican cultural and educational relations which have become traditional at Notre . Dame, 56 Latin-American students are currently enrolled at the University. Puerto Rico, Mexico, Cuba, and 11 Cen­tral and South American republics are represented by this group. At the Uni­versity are two Latin-American clubs, the LaKaza Club and the Inter-Ameri­can Affairs Club. The various activities of these two organizations include quiz matches on Inter-American subjects, various athletic teams, and the education of other students at Notre Dame and in other surrounding colleges and universi­ties on matters concerning the Latin-American students' own countries. 
THE S. A. C 
Officers of the first post-war Student Activities Council at Notre Dame are Ralph W. Hayman, Jr., Philadelphia, president; Harold E. Huling, naval RO­TC trainee from Chillocothe, O., vice-president; and Joseph M. Cheney, Schuy­lerville, N. Y., secretary-treasurer. Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss, C.S.C, is the facul­ty moderator for the council. 
BREEN MEDAL On April 15, before an audience of ap­proximately 400 in Washington Hall, the five winners of the preliminaries of the Breen oratorical contest delivered their orations. The fifth speaker, Glenn Boar-man, C.S.C, was selected by the judges unanimously as the winner. The title of the winning oration was "A Plea for Catholicism," and in it Mr. Boarman tried to awaken Catholics to the fact that their faith will be tried severely in the next few years Mr. Boarman will be awarded the Breen Medal for Oratory, founded by the Hon. William P. Breen, '77, at the June Commencement. 
JUNIOR PBOM On May 3 Notre Dame juniors and their fair guests from all parts of the country streamed into the "Rock" to dance to the music of Jimmy Lunceford's orchestra. That was the big moment of the weekend, but the following after­noon there was more dancing at the In­diana Club and Sunday morning. Prom-goers and their guests attended the 10 o'clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church. Barbara Sullivan, of East Orange, N. J., guest of Joe O'Toole, who was general chairman for the affair, was the Prom Queen, and Naundas Fisher, of Chicago, was the guest of honor as the date of co-chairman Bill McCormack. 
G. & S. BETUBNS Once again the members of the Uni­versity Theatre scored an outstanding success as they presented Gilbert and Sullivan's delightful comic opera. The Mikado. Under the ever-competent direc­tion of Prof. Cecil Birder, Notre Dame's Savoyards played to capacity audiences for four nights in Washington Hall. The operetta will be presented again on June 
29 as a feature of Commencement week­end. 
THE GLEE CLUB 
On May 3 before an impressive crowd assembled in the Navy Drill Hall the South Bend Symphony Orchestra and the Notre Dame Glee Club presented a very enjoyable and well-received pro­gram. The orchestra, under the direction of Edwyn Hames, opened the program with the four movements of Tschaikow­sky's Symphony Number Four in F Minor. The second portion of the pro­gram featured the Glee Club with the Symphony in a beautiful rendition of Randall Thompson's inspiring Testament. 
liant Cuban pianist, Jose Eschaniz, in Franz Liszt's Concerto Number Two M A Major. 
BENGAL BOUTS Roaring approval, some 3,500 fight fans saw the curtain come down on the 1946 edition of the Bengal Bouts. Throughout the preliminaries and semi­finals on April 29 and 30 and Hay 1, the individual battlers gave promise of a splendid show in the finals on Hay 9. Testimony to the excellence, of this year's group of aspirants to titles was the early defeat of several of last year's champions. The promise was fulfilled, in the finals as action-packed fights resulted in the crowning of seven new title-hold­ers. The most spectacular fight of the night was in the 165-pound class as . Johnnie Agnone, Youngstown, O. lad, ad­ministered a T.K.O. to Ralph Deem, ROTC trainee and last year's chainpion. The annual Bengal Bouts Sportsman Trophy was awarded to Bob' GafEney, wounded Syracuse, N. Y^ veteran. Ac­cording to ofiBcials ' this year's. Bcuts were more than twice as successful both, in gate receipts and attendance as any other previous year. Ticket sales, dona­tions and concessions cleared $2,500 for the Bengal Missions. 
ENGINEEBS* OPEN HOUSE AH of the departments of the College of Engineering and the engineering so­cieties were hosts at an open house oh May 25 to residents of South. Bend and vicinity who were interested in labora­tories and laboratory equipment. The so­cieties demonstrated equipment in the various laboratories in use. Automatical­ly controlled furnaces, survejnng equip­ment, the wind tunnel of the Department of A'eronautical Engineering, thie heat power lab, industrial chemical machinery and procedures followed in solving archi­tectural problems were all on display. 
The purpose of the exhibits was to .ac­quaint the people of South Bend with the facilities of the College. 
I • • • 

NEW VOCATIONAL CHAIRMEN 
Two new vocational chairmen, repre­senting the Notre Dame clubs of Toledo and the Connecticut Valley, have recent­ly been named. With these additions,' there are now 28 vocational chairmen serving throughout the country, cover­ing practically all - of the principal . Notre Dame "population centers." . 
The new. chairmen are: Joseph-L;' Tillman, '21, vice. president, Uniteast'. Corp., Toledo, and' Cmdr. John' F. Rob-^ inson, '28, 10 N. Main St., West^ Hart-' ford, who is state director of- selective'' serviceiin.Connectieut..-. .•^•^'••' 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 

m 
$100,000 Hearst Gift to N. D. 
Fund to be Used for Establishment of Scholarships in American History 
The Hearst Foundation's gift of 5100,000 for the establishment of schol­arships in American history at Notre Dame has been accepted officially on be­half of the University by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president. 
In announcing Notre Dame's accept­ance of the gift. Father O'Donnell made the following statement: 
"Notre Dame is very grateful to Mr. Hearst and the trustees of the Hearst Foundation for this handsome benefac­tion. 
"In an age when pseudo-liberals are attempting to destroy the American heritage, it is consoling to know that certain far-seeing men believe that this heritage should be further enhanced by intensive study and research. The bene­faction will be used largely to promote graduate studies in American history." 
The $100,000 scholarship fund given to Notre Dame is part of gifts aggre­gating $750,000 presented by the Hearst Foundation. Martin Huberth, president of the Foundation, revealed that §400­000 had been given to the University of California, $50,000 to Oglethorpe Uni-
NEW FACULTY MEMBERS 

Dr. Gerhart B. Ladner, an authority on the history of mediaeval art, will as­sume duties with the department of history at 'the opening of the fall se­mester. Dr. Ladner received his Ph.D. degree from the University of Vienna, Austria, in 1930. He served on the staff of ."the Monumenta Germaniae Historica in Berlin and Munich, and was a lec­turer in the University of Vienna. He served in the Canadian Ai-my as cap­tain during the war, and, following his discharge, joined the faculty of the Uni­versity of Toronto. At Notre Dame, Dr. Ladner will specialize in mediaeval his­tory and the history of mediaeval art. 
Dr. Austin Jump, of Easton, Md., has been named assistant professor of Bi­ology at Notre Dame, effective in Sep­tember. Dr. Jump received his Ph.D. d^ree from the University of Pennsyl­vania in 1938, and before the war was in charge of instruction in the biological sciences at llaryland State Teachers College, Frostburg, Md.- During the war he.conducted research'at the Joseph E. Seagram research laboratories in Louis­ville, Ky., and also spent six months in 
versity, §100,000 to the National Jewish Hospital at Denver, Colo., and §100,000 to the Los Angeles County Museum. 
The check for §100,000 was presented to Father O'Donnell by George Hearst, a trustee of the Foundation. 

Randolph Apperson Hearst presented a §400,000 check to Robert Gordon Sproul, president of the University of California, after Mr. Sproul had re­quested funds to enlarge and improve the Greek theater on the campus. The gift to Oglethorpe was tendered to the president, Philip Weltner, by John Ran­dolph Hearst, an alumnus of the uni­versity. 
A §100,000 check was presented to the National Jewish Hospital by William Randolph Hearst, Jr., at a dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York. The hospital is a free non-sectarian tuberculosis institution, one-third of whose patients are from New York. 
The money donated to the Los An­geles County Museum by David Hear.st will be used to purchase objects of art and antiquities. 

the Panama Canal Zone. He is cur­rently a research associate at the Uni­versity of Pennsylvania and has con­tributed articles to scientific journals and is the co-author of a textbook. 
FRANK ROGERS DIES 
Frank Rogers, long one of Notre Dame's closest friends in the Twin Cit­ies, died in St. Paul on May 7. He is survived by his wife and nine children. 
VAUGHAN MEMORIAL FUND 

The Vint D. Vaughan, '17, Memorial Fund has been announced by the Univer­sity with the initial gift of §1,000 from Charles L. Vaughan, '14, and James E. Vaughan, '27, Lafayette, Ind., the brothers of the late Vincent de Paul Vaughan, long an active alumnus, former president of the Notre Dame Clnb of the Wabash Valley, and prominent Indi­ana attorney. 
The fund will provide ah annual award of §50 for the student in the College of Law who achieves the best record in moot court trial practice, and a second award of $25 for the student rated next in proficiency in the same practice. 
WILLIAM E . COTTER, '13 

S
POTLIGHT ALUMNI WILLIAM E. COTTER, '13, counsel 
••. for- Union Carbide and Carbon 
Corp. and former president of the Alum­
ni Association, has been serving as a 
member of the Executive Committee of 
the War Finance Committee for New 
York. 
In August, 1943, at the beg:inning of the Third War Loan, the Secretary of the Treasury drafted Mr. Cotter to de­velop a Commerce and Industry Divi­sion in Manhattan and be its director. 
From then until the end of the Sixth War Loan he spearheaded the promo­tion of sales of government securities to 48,000 of New York City's business and professional firms. The volunteer sales organization which he created is credit­ed with securing approximately one-tenth of all national subscriptions made during these loans. 
In the Seventh War Loan he was asked to coordinate all sales groups working in Manhattan and became the first chairman of New York County. He accepted even heavier responsibilities in the Victory Loan when, as chairman of Greater New York, he had an army of 300,000 volunteers working under him who secured 25 per cent of all subscrip­tions made in the United States. 
He wholeheartedly devoted his fine abilities and wide experience in promo­tion to this service for our government and his outstanding leadership helped New York make its heavy contribution to the success of financing World War IL Volume 24, No. 3, June, 1946 
tf Batwaead J. DonoToo, '42 
» »

ATHLETICS 
BASEBALL 
Coach Clarence J. (Jake) Kline's Notre Dame baseball team appears headed for one of the best Irish diamond seasons in Kline's 13 years as head coach if the Blue and Gold nine contin­ues the blistering pace set during the first half of the season. 
Paced by Jack (Kewpee) Barrett, red-headed right hander from Louisville, Ky., on the mound, and Jack Mayo, left fielder from Youngstown, O., at the plate, the Irish rolled to a record of 9 victories and only 3 defeats in the first 12 games of the season. 
Barrett, who has been the Notre Dame pitching ace for the past two sea­sons, turned in four consecutive victor­ies before being defeated by traditional rival Michigan, 7 to 1, in his fifth start. He came back in his next start, how­ever, with a 6 to 4 win over Wisconsin's Big Ten champs and finished the first half of the schedule with a record of five wins and one defeat. 
Mayo, who was on the Notre Dame nine two years ago while here as a Ma­rine trainee in the V-12 program, re­turned to the campus after his discharge and is leading the team at the plate with a cool .441 average after 12 games. Also hitting at a rapid pace for the Irish are Ea y Petrzelka, first baseman from Cedar Kapids, la., and George Schneider, of New York City. 
Notre Dame started the season by splitting a double-header with Indiana, losing the nightcap, 6 to 2, after win­ning the opener, 5 to 1. The Irish then launched a seven-game winning streak which was not terminated until the Michigan defeat on May 14. Included in the victims were Ohio State, 9 to 3, and 10 to 4; Purdue, 11 to 4; Northwestern, 7 to 2; Iowa, 3 to 0 and 9 to 4; and Michigan State, 5 to 4 in ten innings. 
Around the infield for the Irish this season finds George Schneider, at third, Billy Hassett, New York City, at short, Benny Kozlik, Chicago, on second, and Stanley Krivik, Bloomfield, N. J., on first. Krivik and Petrzelka have been sharing first base duties. In the outfield are Jack Mayo, in left, Frank Gilhooley, Toledo, O., in center, and Elmer Baba, Washington, D. C, in right. 
.• 

TENNIS 
Plagued by a siege of inclement weather, the Notre Dame tennis team is living up to Coach Walter Langford's pre-season predictions by winning five out of the first seven matches on the nine-match schedule. 
The Irish netters made the longest trip ever taken by a Notre Dame tennis team when they journeyed to Annapolis, Md., to meet Navy in the first match of the season. Although Bill TuUy, No. 1 man from Bronxville, N. Y., won his match against the Middies, Notre Dame dropped the match by a 7 to 1 score. 
After rain forced the postponement of the Northwestern match, the Irish blanked the Indiana Hoosiers, 9 to 0, and then were forced by the weather to move indoors at Lafayette, Ind., to beat Purdue, 5 to 4. The match scheduled against the University of Kentucky at Lexington, Ky., was cancelled because of rain. Coach Langford's netters squeezed past Western Michigan, 5 to 4, and in another indoors match trimmed Michi­gan State by the same score. The Uni­versity of Michigan handed Notre Dame its second defeat, 5 to 4, in a meet that wasn't decided until the final match. 
In addition to Tully, the other regular members of the 1946 tennis team in­cluded George Eatterman, Cincinnati, 0.; Ed Caparo, South Bend; Harry Erd, Port Huron, Mich.; Joe Brown, Roches­ter, N. Y.; and Artie Hoffman, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
• 

GOLF 
The Notre Dame golf team, coached by Eev. George L. Holderith, C.9.C., emerged from the first half of the sea­son with only one defeat, by Northwest­ern, 14 to 13. 
Father Holderith's golfers, rated by the Irish mentor as one of the finest he has ever coached, opened the season by easily disposing of Marquette and Ohio Northern in a triangular match on the William J. Burke course. A 13% to 13% tie with Wisconsin in the rain provided the only other blot, in addition to the Northwestern defeat, on the first half of the schedule. 
After defeating Purdue, 15 to 12, at Lafayette, the Notre Dame golfers turned in a smashing 19 to 8 victory over the highly-touted University of Michigan linksmen, but in their next match lost their first match of the sea­son to Northwestern. The Wildcats were paced by Manuel de la Torre, pre-war ace, who copped medal honors for the day. 
The scheduled Minnesota match on May 25 was postponed by the railroad strike and will be played on June 23, the day before the NCAA tournament at Princeton, N. J. Father Holderith originally had planned to send the Irish B team to compete in the Indiana state collegiate meet at Terre Haute, Ind., on May 24, but when the Minnesota match was postponed he sent Dick Whiting, No. 1 golfer from Detroit, Mich., and Geoi^ge Stuhr, freshman from Garden CSty, N. Y., to team with Tom Conley, of West De Pere, Wis., and Jack Quinn, of Orange, N. J., in the state meet. Al­though the. Irish finished in third place. Whiting shot a brilliant 73-75—148 to win the individual championship. 
Other members of the Irish starting lineup besides Whiting and Stuhr in­clude Capt. Tom Kennedy, of Rochester, Minn.; Everhart ScUeck, of South Mil­waukee, Wis.; Jim Besenfelder, of Men­dota. 111.; and Joe Totten, of Pittsbui^h, Pa. 
TRACK 
Lack of strength in the field events, hampered the Notre Dame track and field team throughout the season to the extent that the Irish tracksters have failed to win an outdoor meet to-date. 
' Coach Elvin B; Bandy's team has been strong in the track events, particu­larly in the mile >un, the hurdles and the dashes. Bill Leonard, of Schenecta­dy, N. Y., breezed through three out­door mile run victories before being af­fected by a stomach ailment just before the Michigran State meet. He was dealt his first collegiate defeat in two years in the State meet and followed by drop­ping to third in the mile run at the In­diana State Collegiate track meet at Lafayette, Ind. 
John Smith, Park Eidge, JU., Bill Fleming, Providence, E. I., and Capt. Bill O'Neill. Snoqualmie Falls, Wash, have garnered their share of points for Notre Dame during the' season in the high and low hurdles. Smith, a' former national scholastic champ, returned from the service at the start of this se­mester and is unbeaten in outdoor com­petition. Prazier' Thompson, Philadel­phia Negro, has been besieged by injur­ies during the outdoor season, but still rates high among the Midwestern dash-men. 
After dropping a 64 to 61 decision against the University of Wisconsin, the Irish trade team faltered hopeless­ly in the field events against the strong University of Michigan team and lost, 74% to 47%. The real reason for this 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

loss lies in the fact that they could pick up but 1% points out of a possible 27 in the shot put, discus and broad jump. After losing to Michigan State, Notre Dame finished third behind Purdue and Indiana in the state meet. Purdue and Indiana tied for first place with 66 points each, while the Irish were third with 61. A dual meet with Marquette, the annual CCC meet and the NCAA meet remain on the schedule. 
SPRING FOOTBALL 
Coach Frank Leahy's prospective 1946 Notre Dame varsity eleven climaxed six weeks of spring practice by defeating a star-studded group of Old Timers, 20 to 0, on June 1 in Notre Dame Stadium before 12,000 fans. 
Johnny Lujack, on special leave from the Navy to participate in the game, entered the contest with only a few days practice, but stole the show from his teammates with a stellar defensive game. Lujack, although naturally wide of his mark on several passes, gave promise of taking up where he left off before entering the Navy. 
The varsity was limited to the use of five basic plays in registering their victory, and looked far from impressive due chiefly to poor blocking both in the line and . downfield. The touchdo^vns were scored by fullback Gerry Cowhig on an eight-yard drive after a recovered fumble, a 68-yard pass from Lujack to halfback Floyd Simmons, and a short plunge by fullback Jim Mello. 
The Old-Timers, with such former Irish grid greats as Benny Sheridan, Steve Juzwik, Dippy Evans, Comie Clatt, Bob Dove, Bernie Crimmins, Wally Ziem­ba, Lou Rymkus and Jim Brutz in the lineup, were unable to cope with the varsity. The only scoring threat on the veterans' part came in the second half when Steve Juzwik received a kickoff, handed it to Dippy Evans, who scooted 63 yards before he was pulled down from behind by Lujack on the varsity 15-yard line. 
CULLEN GIFTS 

John Paul Cullen, '22, Wauwatcsa, Wis., who has given some valuable items from his collections to the University, especially from his collection of Jack London, has recently added to his list of gifts. Paul R. Byrne, '13, librarian, an­nounces the receipt of "The Strength of the Strong," a rare London shoi-t story published in 1911; an original letter from Charmian London (Mrs. Jack Lon­don) to Mr; Cullen; and another collec­tors item, "Pomes Peny Each," by James Joyce, one of only 13 copies published. 
Cardinal Tien at Notre Dame 
Cardinal Tien visits Notre Dame. Left to right: Bev. John J. Covonough. C.S.C„ vice'president; Bev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, provincial; Thomas Cordinol Tien; Bev. J. Hugh O'Donnell. C.S.C., president: ond Henry Linn, a Chinese student. 
On May 4 Thomas Cardinal Tien, S.V.D., vicar apostolic of Tsingtao, China, and China's first cardinal, came to Notre Dame as the honored guest of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Cardi­nal Tien paid tribute to the University as "the most famous in the United States," and added that he hoped that the Holy Cross Fathers could come to China soon and help him to erect a uni­versity in honor of Our Lady, an insti­tution that would be known as the Notre Dame of China. After celebrating Bene­diction in Sacred Heart Church, Cardi­nal Tien spoke briefly to the students and faculty, saying that the conduct of the Catholic missionaries proved to the people of China during the war years that they (the missionaries) sought nothing for themselves. 
Later, in an interview. Cardinal Tien said that now was the time for the peo­ple of China to te converted to Catholi­cism. "The youth of China," he added, "have thrown off the old morality and are now without religion. We must win them to Christianity through the arts and sciences," Expressing confidence in the future of his country, the Cardinal predicted that the next decade would see a tremendous expansion in educa­
tion, not only in the ai-ts and sciences 
but also in vocational institutions. 
In welcoming the Cardinal to Notice 

Dame, Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, 
recalled that through the years "mem­
bers of some of China's most distin­
guished families have come to Notre 
Dame as students." Following the exer­
cises at the Church, the Cardinal and 
his party were guests of Rev. Thomas 
A. Steiner, C.S.C, provincial, and Fa­ther O'Donnell at a special luncheon in the Lay Trustees Room in the Dining Hall. They were taken for a visit around the University aftenvards. 
SPEAKS TO SENIORS 

Lashing at Godless governments. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice presi­dent of the University, told 800 graduat­ing seniors of South Bend's four public high schools and 2,000 guests at bacca­laureate ceremonies in John Adams High School auditorium that there is much in common among the nazis, fascists and communists. They all want to run eco­nomics, education, and government with­out God, Father Cavanaugh charged, as he quoted from the Declaration of In­dependence to show the heart of true Americanism as it is based on funda­mental truths. 
Is Communism Compatible with Christianity? 
By Hon. CLARE BOOTHE LUCE* 
I arn happy and honored to be here this evening, Notre Dame has always had a special meaning for the women of America. It is the only great university dedicated to a woman, the loveliest woman tliat ever lived, and the patroness of our beloved country. 
Ever>-one knows of the valor that the men educated under her sweet protection showed in this war. And I will not tr>* to add to Anne O'Hara. McCormack's eloquent analysis of what that same courage, conviction, and leadership, which was sliowu on the battle­field, can mean and must mean in the arena of public opinion and all public matters in the years ahead. 
I have always felt that there was some­thing ratlier special about Notre Dame men. Now, at lust, I know what that something was: it was the courage and resourcefulness that God always gives those who believe in His truths. 1 sensed this even in my teens. For wlion observing the behavior of Notre 
' Damo men in contact with a football, it was impossible not to realize that- the power of the Lord had surely gotten into tliem and in a v«r>' special way. 
Materialism a Faith 

Today we are living in an age of unprece­dented faith—of a faith so boundless In mil­lions of individuals, and widespread In many uations. that not since creation has man seen the like of it. That faith is in the reiigion of materialism. And the promise of its many theologians, of whom Marx and Lenin are the best known to the common man, is the estab­lishment of heaven on earth. Comes heaven on earth, to be sure, only after the somewliat bloody apocalypse of world revolution. Tliis faith has produced, in remarkable abundance. its own saints and martyrs, who are canonized in Moscow rather more rapidly than is the custom in Rome which is strangely cautious in the matter of bestowing sainthood, some­times taking centuries before pronouncing any mortal so superior to his neighbors. 
Tl'.ere have been many sects and denomina­tions in the ancient religion of materialism, but its true faith, I think we must all agree, is communism, and its titular head Is Joseph Stalin. As befits a worldwide religion of great power and persuasion, this supreme pontiff is considered Infallible. But there is nothing half-hearted about that avuncular gentleman's avowed infallibility. Within Russia and Rus­sian dominated zones, Stalin's infallibility is questioned only at the cost of life Itself. Out­side of Russia, for example in the left wing drawing rooms of Chicago's millionaire pub­lishers, or m some oflices in the chamber of cqmmerce and the State Department, it is questioned only on pain of being called a dirty reactionary, or a Fascist beast. The devotee of communism believes in many mystic propositions and even miracles which you and I_cannot understand liow any reasonable person can subscribe to; he believes that man—or as he prefers to call him—the common man, lives by bread alone, and that only when his stomach Is full, and his senses satisfied is lie. so to speak, in a state of grace. He passion­ately l>elleves that all will be good and happy wlien all have two cars in evorj- garage, two chickens In every pot, r.nd two pairs of nylons on every chicken. Do not ask him. please, why, if It be so that bodily comfort and material pro.sperity are tlie true conditions of virtue, many men who today have houses honeycombed with Crane plumbing are not necessarily good and happy, but have even l)een known to dodge the draft, falsify their income tax, beat their wives, commit suicide. 
• • Address before the Notre Dame Club of ^'ew York City on Universal Notre Dame Night, ^pril 29. 1946. 
and otherwise behave abominably. Nor must you ask Ijim why. if material prosperity Is the "sine qua non" of civic virtue, America, wlilch lias tlie most frigtdaires and radios should not be considered the happiest and best of countries, instead (as he believes) the most evil? For the Communist religionist will scowl and say, "I said no men could be good and happy unless all men have everything." But then if you ask, "But the Russians have the least of these things. Are they therefore the most evil and unhappy of men?" Such reason­able questions simply irritate the faithful Com­munist, whose catechism begins with "Up with everything that is down, and down with every­thing that is up." a proposition you might think he would liave some dilRcuity squaring with Einstein's relativity, wliich he much admires In his logical moments. 
Don't ask the Communist why it Is wrong for a Russian to strike in a Moscow factory as a protest against bad working conditions, but right for an American to strike In Ameri­ca for the same reason. Or why freedom to disagree with the American press is a human right for a Communist In AmeriCa. but a mortal crime for the same man in Russia. Or, why it is sheer superstition for you and me to make the sign of tlie cross—In memor>' of Him who was crucified and lives—and the height of rationality, for him to make the sign of the clenched fist passing Lenin's tomb on Red Square. Since a Communist does not believe in the immortality of the soul, his performance in saluting what he himself believes Is just a hunk of dead meat, should, for even the most simple minded, seem ridiculous. Don't ask him logically to prove that despite the fact that thousands of years of hate and war and looting and rapine by the conquerors of eastern Europe have never brought peace or happiness to anyone in that area of the world, the hatred and looting and rapine of Russian armies there may be expected to usher in a millennium of brotherly love and prosperity. Don't ask him why, if he really believes that the sole end of man is to keep himself warm, well fed. and secure, so many of his own Iieroes have sacrificed these to bring about the revolution. The truth about the religion of communism is that It is. of all the Christian heresies tliat the world has ever seen, the silliest and most irrational, and It has rightly been called the opiate of the intellectuals. It demands of the believer acts of surpassing faith wliich we would never be capable of. Indeed, no Christian saint ever had more faith in the power of God's grace to transfigure his own nature, than a Communist has in the power of State ownership of electricity and plumbing to transfigure ail human nature. V.'hen nobodj' lias anything, everybody will have evor>-thing. And when everybody has every­thing, nobody will have more than anybody. But if anybody has more than anybody, some­body will liquidate him. and then everybody will be Jiappy, except the relatives of the somebody who got liquidated. 
A Christian Heresy 

I have just said that communism is a Cliris­lian heresy. So. for tliat matter, is nazism and fascism, and that branch of totalitarian liberalism which believes In our country that forced social planning is the final answer not only to the toothaches and stomach aches, but all the heartaches of mankind. Perhaps this needs a little explaining. All the religions— and most of the isms—that have sprung up in the shadow of the cross in western civiliza­tion during the past thousand years are here­sies of the church. That is to saj*. they have been founded on some tenet or belief, or dogma or article of the faith which the founders felt had been in their time neglected, or under-emphasized or obscured by the priestliood. To rip. so to speak, one dogma or tenet from its full Christian context and to. make of it a complete faith is always a process which re­sults in perversions and ultimately disaster. For the part can never be greater than the whole. And only a whole faith can save man and make and keep him free. 
Still It seems .to me that the heretics In every age have often been Justified In point­ing out some contemporary failure of the church, to emphasize and put into the fore­ground something In the faith which had been abused or misinterpreted or forgotten. What has needed emphasizing in all the Christian churches of the western world for the past several hundreds of years was certainly the Second Commandment: Love thy neighbor. The neglect by the west of the brotherhood of man was noted by Karl Marx, and taking the Second Commandment.. disregarding all else, in Chris­tian theology, he made of it alone a religion. His success is the measure of our failure. Until most recent years so-called Christians all over the world had tended more and more to forget that Second Commandment In the time of swift and unruly material expansion and under the terrific impact of the Industrial scientific discoveries. • Yes, there is no doubt that west­ern man for a hundred years increasingly tended to exploit his neighbor and trample on his human rights. More and more he forgot our Lord's only new commandment, to love one another as He loved us. The resultant sufler-Ing of what has come to be called the common man was. and still is. a shame to all western democratic society. The downtrodden masses, wherever they were downtrodden were right, and are right, to protest against exploitation or, when protest fails, to revolt against it-And \t was and Is the duty of Christian churches to back such protests. Many of them failed lamentably In that Christian duty. 
Disorder in America 

Now. anyone who. has seen the other coun­tries of the world knows that America today is comparatively a Shangrl-Ia among nations. Nevertheless, our own Nation today Is full of Injustices which are so widespread and so serious that if they are not rectified by the com­munities, the States, and the Federal Govern­ment men's minds will Increasingly incline toward the false panaceas and false religions which so seductively promise them relief. Com­munism must succeed if Christianity fails. 
"Wherever there is big industry In this coun­try there is much filth, oppression, gloom, des­pair, disease, degradation, crime, and misery The treatment of minorities, such as Negroes, falls appallingly short of any Christian ideal. Three-quarters of the world's gold still lies buried in Kentucky—and men are hungry and fear for their futures. Inventions that would be a vast, incalculable boon to the comfort of millions are undeveloped, because no one knows how to put them on the market without throw­ing millions out of work. The land, so thinly populated compared with Europe and Asia, is wastefully farmed; and on the farms and in hinterland hills there are whole societies who live violent and ugly lives, in squalor and Ignorance. Our understaffed hospitals overflow with the victims of Industrial strain, industrial accidents, industrial diseases, and there are not enough of them. Juvenile delinquency Is rampant-. The statistics on Insanity are enough to shake the reason of a sane man, and the statistics on crime might make a just man tremble for justice. And over all the country there is a feeling that under the outward order­liness of the American scene disorder is in­vading us. We are frustrated by a •_ lack of spiritual cohesion. In our culture. . Yes, again.st all this—men have the right— Indeed, the duty to protest, and if need be. to revolt. But there is a vast difference. be­
•J8 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
iween revolution and the reforms proposed by 
many revolutionists. To demand the cessation 

of :ibuses and to remove the abuser, to advo­
cate better ways of bringini; about the welfare 
and happiness of men. and to place in position 
of autliority those wlio will carrj- thom out, 
is the proper end of democratic political action. 
Such action must never be controverted. But. 
according to what plan, what philosophy, what 
religion, shall men act in order to perfect their 
human situation? 
Even the most starry-eyed of Red Fascists 

will admit that Russia is not altogether per­
fect, but he will swear to the death that his 
religion, communism, will perfect not only it. 
but the ontire world if given a chance- Indeed, 
such is the nature of any religion which 
possesses a theology that it is always universal 
in its intent. However, nationalistic the men 
in the Kremlin may be, their own theories 
commit them to supranationalism in the ap­
plication of Communism to world problems. 
And since America Is not perfect, what will 

tiien help to perfect America? Our answer 
here tonight is, another religion—Christianity. 
Today, in all the vrorld. these two religions 
are in conflict, mortal conflict for communism, 
immortal, for Christianity. 
No Absolute Truth 

1 am often asked by friends what is the difference between a Communist and a capi­talist. And in _ America, the answer is likely to be simple, an American Communist is gen­erally a man who has given ui) hope of be­coming an American capitalist. If there were only American Communists to worry about, the problem would not be too serious; we would have only to make this country reason­ably secure and prosperous In material terms to change most of our Communists into Republi­cans. The American Communist is not a menace. What is a menace is the religion of communism, as it opposes, not our economic ideas, but our religious ones. And it does so on a wide and ever deepening front ever>-­where in tne world. For these two religions art» irreconcilably opposed. 
Comni'inism is fundamentally ma t e r i a 1. Christianity, spiritual. Christianity is dedi­cated to love and peace among all men. com­munism to natred and war. Cliristianity glori­fies God. communism denies Him. Commun­ism denies individual humati rights, Christianity exalts them. Clirlstianity insists on the rights of private property, insofar as they are not exercised to abuse the community, the other denies property rights, however much this liuits or hampers the individual. Communism says that man and all his institutions and enterprises o.re the tools, agents, and the slaves of the states. Christianity teaches that the siaio is the servant of man and his insi:tutions. One says the state is omnipotent, the other that God only is all-powerful. One denies the validity of the family unit, the other says that it is the fundamental unit of everj- society. One disrupts the home, the other preserves it. One demands class warfare, the other seeks to .-imellcrate all group or racial frictions. One says that the i)eoples only participation in politics shall be to point an ordered finger at a prechosen candidate, and call him elected. In a Chriotian democracy, every man is a politician, who simply allows some to hold ollice. In a Communist suite all political powers are delegated from above to a few in­dividuals. In a democratic state, everj- man is a policviman who pays a few to wear a uniform. Communism says man has the right to say what he's told, and do what he must. Christianity says he has the right to say what he will, and do what he" ought. 
But above all communism den:es absolute truth. Truili in all matters, in press, i)olitics, even in matters of Communist tlieologj-. is always what infallible Stalin says it is on any given moriting. in any mood that seizes him. 
Christianity subscribes to these absolute truths—that man is the child of God. created in His image. That our Lord came into this world to sliow what a cliild of God could and should be, that all law is based on morality, that morality comes of God. 
I fear that, as a Congressman and a legis­lator. I liave not been verj- informative in this talk. I have not given ^ you any new*sworthy items concerning the way In which our Soviet 
neighbors have been spreading^ their particular 
brand of light and joy througliou^t Europe and 
Asia. ' . 
But It seems to me that yo'u are probably 
quite as familiar as I am with the news which 
finds its way into our press about the practices 
and purposes of communism here and abroad. 
The statements of the men and women 
arrested In Canada as spies for lloscovite 
fascism illustrate clearly my point that com­
munism is supernatlonal. and that every Com­
munist, that is. every accepted member of the 
Communist community, gives his entire allegi­
ance to his olficial Communist superiors and 
obeys their orders without question. 
Logically it is impossible for one of these 
Red Fascists to be a loyal member of any 
other community, whether it be religious or 
political, or even a group of friendly neighbors. 
It Is" this fact, borne out by indisputable proof 
in Iiundreds of instances and places, which has 
led many nations, including from time to time 
our own, to prohibit from holding public otiice 
any person known to be a member of the 
Fasclst-Commuuist militia. 
Such regulation is the common sense, self-
protective action which comes from recogni­
tion of tlie fact that everj- Communist, like 
every bundist and every Fascist, has taken an 
oatli as a soldier, enrolled In a militarj- organi­
zation, the purpose of which is the destruction 
of all other military, religious, political, and 
social organizations. 
Here, in the United States, we know that 
this lied fascism is straining every effort at 
tlie present moment to discredit and bring 
about the destruction of our armed forces, of 
our foreign policy, of our domestic economy, 
and of our faith in our churches. They have 
made some progress by means of agents in all 
these organizations, some of whom even hold 
places of iiigh responsibility and trust-
Why, if the religion of communism, is so strong and persuasive, as I have painted it, are the Communists in such a hurry? Because tliey know that once Americans wake up to i!ie true nature of communism, and its funda­mental ai'tagonism to Christianity, their success may be delayed for many years, and possibly postponed forever. 
Soviet Slaves 
Today communism sprawls all over eastern Kurope and nearly half of Asia. And at last many people are beginning to see that It is a twin brother of the Hitler niglitmare. The realism about which Stalin boasts is the real­ism of slavery. 
Victor Kravchenko, a former Soviet indus­trial ofiiclal, gives the figures of Soviet slavery in his book "I Chose Freedom." 
In ll'SS, he says, tlie number of slave laborers in concentration camps were more than 15,000,­
000. Between 1940 and 1945 this had risen to nearly I'O.OOO.OOO. And this does not Include ciiildren. which are now being regularly herded for trjiining, as heloEs were in ancient Greece, or untouchables in Imperial Mogul India. Krav­chenko dates the first decree for child mobiliza­lion in October 1940. This provided for im­m iii.ite forcible enlinment of from SOO.OOO to 

1.000.000 city and village children from 14 to 17 years old for industrial training. By 1943 the child-labor contingents were raised to ::.00l>,000 a year. Kravchenko states: "The cruel scenes of separation, witli youngsters sobbing and struggling, with relatives wailing and lamenting, became more and more famil­iar. • t • Tjjg conscripts were put into uni­forms, housed in government barracl^, and subjected to rigid discipline and a virtually militarj- regime. Their time was apportioned for work, study, and physical training along linos calculated to turn them not merely into obedient but into fanatic ser\-anis of the Soviet superstate- Political indoctrination was natur­ally the important consideration in their train­ing." 
During the war there were fire different mobilizations of children In Soviet Russia. To­day the aggregate of these uniformed, regi­mented young men and women is 9,000,000. If this sytem continues, as Kravchenko says there is every indication it will, there will be thirty to forty million regimentally trained workers wiih:n 15 years. Tiiey will have no memories of a home, c f any kind of freedom or individual life. Like the janissaries of the Seljuk sultans, their whole energies will [)e devoted to one aim: the militarj* maintenance and the exten­sion by force of Soviet power, and the evan­gelizing of the Communist religion. To them must he added the 20,000.000 forced-labor slaves, and the standing Soviet Army of from twelve to fifteen million conscripts Indoctrinated with Communist dogma and Stalinist theories of a world revolution to be followed by a pro­letarian miliennium. Tlie religion which asserts the brotherhood of man. and denies the father­hood of God. has resulted In the unclehood which devours and destroys even the children of his own nation. 
Thls^is the kind of government and a kind of religion offered by Moscow as an alterna­tive to the one described in our own Declara­tion of Independence as deriving its just powers from the consent of the governed, and In­stituted to secure for all men their inalienable rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness under God. 
Orthodoxy and Alaska 
Now tlie devil himself quotes scripture, so 

it is natural enough that Stalin, noting the 
alarm of the Christian world, should seek to 
abate that alarm by a belated show of friendly 
interest in the Christian church. To be sure, 
his most lively interest is in the Orthodox ­
chuichLS of America. 
We would be negligent in our own self­

presfervation if we overlook entirely such 
flagrant violations of our hospitality as the 
recent visit of the Soviet Orthodox Church 
representative to various Russian churches In 
our country. The purpose of this visit, as de­
scribed by the ^letropolltan Theophilus of North 
America, in his patriotic and vigorous denuncia­
tion of the Soviet representative, was: to 
secure an oath of allegiance to Moscow from 
the faithful communicants in America. This 
was rejected in all but a few cases last year. 
However, verj- recently, a number of parishes have reconsidered their decision, due to shrewd propagandizing from Soviet agents, and to hints of savage reprisal and torture open upon relatives now in the occupied areas under Soviet domination. 
There are 400 Russian Orthodox parishes in the United States and Canada. About 340 of them have congregations of Carpatho-Russian ancestry, that is, or persons whose relatives now live in the area most recently taken over by the Soviet Union. Some SO of the parishes are located in Alaska, a region which the con­trolled Soviet press occasionally mentions as having been robbed from the Soviet people under the Tsarist regime. 
There is no secret about the fact that Alaska would be the continental lieachhead for any Soviet colonization in North America. There is no secret, either, about tlie fact that next October at .he meeting of the Council of Rus­sian Orthodox Churches in America, the Moscow Government expects to secure Die allegiance of a majority of the delegates, bishops and priests to the spiritual overlordship of the patriarch of Moscow. 
This act, if it occurs, win be represented bv our lettwnig press as of no more politica'l signiflconce than the spiritual fealty given by Catholics in America to the Holy Father in Rome, ilaay will accept this inge.mous false­hood, because u-jthout knowing the whole truth It stems plausible. 
h TJ'^ m " *-^' '*'^' '*'*' patriarch of Moscow holds omce. and the church itself functions in Russia only at the pleasure of the executive committee of the Communist Partv. without warning, everj- priest in Russiia can be seized and every church liquidated. Under these con­ditions, should the patriarch be given authority to appoint and remove priests in the American parishes of the Orthodox Church, it would Te a marked deviation from regular Soviet practice 
™ » '"''L''''^****''*'"*^"*^ '^'^-'^^ otherwise than 
^erj tnendly to the Soviet Government 
In Alaska, this might easily have serious consequences for our security. The congrega­tions there are largely simple people: hunters. nsnermen, predommantly of Eskimo descent. They would not likely question the statements or actions of a new pastor. Xor would they be aware if reports supposedly made to the 
Volume 24, No. 3, June, 1946 
patrJarcli, included extra hits addressed to the general stafC of the Red armed forces, and to the secret police—the NKVI>. In Soviet Rus­sia, there Is no separation of state and church. The state is the church, the church the state. All things, including God must serve the mam­mon of Moscow. 
All these problems r^ise new and serious questions. Americans are reluctant to question the good faith of any man, particularly the good faith of any minister or priest of any creed. Thus, our tradition and guaranty of religious freedom could be used against our security in this instance. 
If the question were raised publicly, certainly a great many Americans would ask whether there is .any basis for doubting Soviet good faith. And the answer to that would properly include a list of the treaties made by the Soviets during the past 15 years, all of which —with one exception: the pact for dividing Poland with Nazi Germany In 1939—have been violated by the Soviets. 
On the specific question of Soviet perversion of the Orthodox church to its own political purposes. Professor Nicholas Tlmasheff, of Ford­ham University, writes in his authoritative book. Hellgion in Soviet Russia: "Concessions have been many. • • • How do we know that they were concessions and not steps In the (Soviet) government's gradual but basic accept­ance of human values? We know it, because all reforms have been half-reforms, repealing only so many of the revolutionary measures as seemed unavoidable. • • • As atheism is at the heart of Marxism, any concession to religion was much more dithcult than concession to art. • • • For the very soul of the Christian church, the reason of its being, is just what is categorically-denied by communism." 
In the matter of Alaska, I give you only one instance of a Russian victory which may be won without our statesmen either knowing or informing our people. I could tonight, make many anotlier criticism of the way the so-called Russian question has been handled In Wash­ington, and might be expected to be handled at Paris. But I note by the papers that Jimmle Byrnes, before he went, quoted the Negro spiritual, "Standing In the Need of Prayer." If Jimpiie Byrnes and his whole delegation have at long last been driven to their knees by the seriousness of the situation, we may all begin to take heart. For a man who falls to his knees for guidance - has a very good chance of rising a wiser man. Those who refuse to fall on them In the world in which we Uve will be driven to them by a tynint. For God.lets us rise from our knees freemen. Dictators never. 
Tonight, in closing, rather than tell you what our Government should do to combat communism here and abroad. I* would rather tell you—although you already know—what each of us can do. 
Try ChriBtianity 

We ctin all fight communism simply by be­ing Christians. I say. simply by being, but unhappily It Is not so simple to be a Chris­tian, which incidentally is precisely why there are so many Communists. 
There is a vast personal excitement and oven joy in living in an age where our beloved faith is so much challenged. This was the joy 'and exultation that the early Christians knew. We can emulate them by being militant and faith­ful Christophers—or Christ bearers, every day, ill every way'In all of our thoughts, and each of our actions. Every man and woman who ever meets us will, as he must, judge our religion by its effect on us. One of the great strengths of the Communist, is the way he incessantly propagandizes, talks, and agitates for his beliefs—and even sometimes tries to live by them. Let us do likewise: let us live and talk Christianity. I do not for a moment hesitate to say that probably 10 out of 10 decent people who claim to have no religion, coming into contact with a real Christian, who both lives and talks and acts his religion, will find that man infinitely more agreeable and persuasive than a Communist doing exactly the same .thing. 
Fi*j5t, a real Christian will go around trying to spread a little hope, faith, and charity; he will be polite, patient, smiling, peaceful. 
restrained, tolerant, forgiving, and above all generous. Now. all the Communists I have ever known have been rude, loud, intolerant, cynical, angry folk who have audibly yearned to liquidate somebj)dy. Their bitter tongues wag in their heads like bloody pickles. They all seem to live In a perpetual swizzle of rancor. They are always making trouble, set­ting one person against another. Even if you walk down a quiet street with one, he will try to make you feel like a betrayer of the masses because you don't Instantly grab a brick and bash in the nearest Irish cop's head with 
it. They are most remarkably uncomfortable companions. 
Ladies and gentlemen. In the final analysis, the only effective argument for communism is that Christianity has failed. Christianity has not failed. It has hardly been tried. Zjet each of us try a little harder to be real Christians in all our dealings with our neigh­bors, and In all our conversations, and in our attitudes toward the problems of the day. and see who gets the most fellow travelers, us or the Communist on the block. 
Let us forget about the defeats which our statesmen have suffered at Potsdam and Yalta and London, and may yet suffer at Paris. Let us count on ourselves, not them, to secure America against all possibility of becoming Communist, by each of us being a Christian, and like all good Christians, making converts. There is no other rational way to proceed, if u-e wish to achieve peace on earth for our children. 
O'BRIEN-STANFORD DEATHS 

The University mourned the deaths within a week in April of two members of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, John J. O'Brien of South Bend and Grattan T. Stanford, '04, of New York City. 
Mr. O'Brien, co-founder with his late brother. Miles, of the South Bend Lathe Works, died on . April 24, at his resi­dence after an illness of several weeks. For years he had been one of South Bend's outstanding business and civic leaders. 
At his bedside when death occurred were members of his family including Mrs. O'Brien, his two daughters, Mrs. Clarence E. Manion, of South Bend and wife of Notre Dame's law dean, and Mrs. Elizabeth Metcalf, of Little Comp­ton, R. I., and his son, John W. O'Brien, a student at the University. 
In addition to serving as a lay trustee 
of the University, Mr. O'Brien evidenced 
his interest in the school by founding 
the Miles and John J. O'Brien Fellow­
ship in Metallurgy and Allied Sciences, 

established on Dec. 31, 1938, by a gift of $15,000. Miles O'Brien had also been a lay trustee at Notre Dame. 
At the funeral services held in St. Patrick's Church in South Bend, Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president, ofSciated at a low requiem Mass and gave the funeral sermon. Interment was in Highland cemetery where the Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C, provincial of the Holy Cross Congregation, gave the final absolution. 
On the occasion of Mr. O'Brien's death, Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, 

president, of the University, issned the 
following statement: 
"The death of Mr. John O'Brien has 

occasioned much sadness at the Univer­
sity of Notre Dam^ which has lost a 
loyal friend and benefactor of long 
standing. He was loyally interested in 
Notre Dame long before he became a 
member of the Associate Board of Lay 
Trustees in 1941. His associates on the 
board held him in the highest esteem, 
and had profound respect for his pene­
trating judgment and personal devotion 
in everjrthing concerned with the wel­
fare of the University. 
"Mr. O'Brien will be sorely missed at 

Notre Dame, which he served loyally 
and well. In particular, he will be 
missed by his many friends on the fac­
ulty who prized his constant friendship. ' May he rest in peace!" 
GRATTAN T. STANHno, '04 

Bom in Monticello, Ind., in 1882, Mr. Stanford spent his youth in Indepen­dence, Kans., and returned to that city after his graduation from the Harvard Law School in 1907. Until 1916 he prac­ticed law with his father. A participant in the formation of the earliest Sinclair companies, he went to New York as general counsel for the then Sinclair Oil and Refining Co. in October, 1916. 
Mr. Stanford was a member of the University's Board of Lay Trustees, a member of the Metropolitan and Rocke­feller Center Luncheon Clubs in New York, and of the KnoUwood Country Club of White Plains, N. Y. He had taken part for years in affairs of the American Petroleum Institute. 
He leaves his widow, Mrs. Effa Dunn Stanford; a sister, Mrs. John Coifer of Emporia, Kans.; and a brother, Leland 
P. Stanford, of New York. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
First Postwar U.N.D. Night Widely Observed 
As evident in the accompanying Club 
news, Universal Notre Dame Night in 
1946, first postwar observance, found 
not only prewar numbers of Clubs meet­
ing, but enriched quality of program 
dictated by the experiences of the war 
and the progress of the Alumni Associ­
ation program. The New York Club's 
key program; Chicago's brilliant pro-, 
gram featuring Cardinal Striteh; the 

Akron 
Before the club dinner on Universal Kotre X>anie Ni^ht all of the alumni spent a half hour at St. "Vincent's Church in meditation and praj'er for those who had lost their lives in the "War. Approximately 40 alumni attended the dinner. 
Murray Powers was chosen as the new presi­dent, Paul Bertsch, who was chairman for the dinner, was elected vice-president, and Ted l4ey and AI ICIkert were reelected as secretary and treasurer respectively. Ted Ley 
Buffalo 
The club held a dinner in the Knights of Columbus Bldg., on April 29, in observance of Universal Xotre Dame Night. Honoring the six members of the club who lost their lives in the service, the program was well-arranged by cliairman Bcmie Bird. 
On April 9 there was a meeting at the . Hotel Sheraton. 3fust Kev, John F. O'JIanit C.S.C., bishop of Buffalo, spoke at this meeting. 
Cincinnati 
In March tlie following olficers were elected for the coming year: J, Walter Xienaber, presi­dent; Howard Rotiun, vice president; Bob Leonard, seer eta rj'-trcasurer. Fiitlier Goodall, from the campus, was at the meeting and showed movies of Notre Dame. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed with a Mass at the Fenwick Chapel, the mem­bers receiving Holy Communion in a body, and offering- their iMass and Communion for the members of the club and for all alumni who died in the service. 
Returned from the service are: Frank M-Luney, Herb Gardner, Xat Bond, Uaruld 3(ad­den, Howard Rohan, Bob Leonard, Jack Bmd­berrer, Dwipht Broentan, Tom Crumley, Jim McCafferty, Jim Clark, Bob Chenal, AValt Nienaber, Jack Bond, Bi*b Hus^lies, and Jack Gillig:an. 
Centrof Michigan 
Alumni from Lansing and Central Michigan gathered at the Hotel. Roosevelt in Lansing on May 12 to initiate plans for the reorgani­zation of the Notre Dame Club of Central Michigan. Fuis Cowart was elected temporary chairman to serve until officers are elected at a dinner and golf rally planned for June. Jim Armstrong and Charlie Bacliman, head coach at Michigan State College, were the 
Washington Club's program; and the 
many others detailed here%vith are elo­
quent of the new power of the Notre 
Dame Clubs. 
National radio time was generously 
contributed by Mutual Bi-oadcasting 
System through the cooperation of Mr, 
Edgar Kobak, president. There were, 
however, several unavoidable complica­
tions in arranging the time and natura 
of the program, with the result that the 
speakers and sound motion pictures of foot­ball games and campus scenes were shown. 
Capifof District IN. Y.i 
At the annual election in Albany on April 29 the following- were chosen to lead the club: John F. Campbell, president; Charles E. AValsh. vice president; and James J. Drislane, secre­tarj'-treasurer. Plans were made for an annual summer meeting and for a Christmas holiday dance. 
Connecticut Valley 
Our group met at the Bond Hotel In Hart­ford to observe Universal Notre Dame Night. New olllccrs of the club are: Vincent E. Turley, Hartford, president; Jo4i<>pli \y, 0*>*efl|, Spring­field, Mass., vice-president; G. Albert Lawton, Hartford, secretarj-; and Tim 31uriili>-, Hartford, reelected treasurer. The Board of Governors now consists of Floyd Richards, Hartford. Ray Snyder, Chicopee Falls, Mass., John F. Robtn­
ultimate broadcast by Father O'Donnell 
over Mutual was not channelled as 
widely or publicized as thoroughly as it 
might otherwise have been. 
In every respect, however, the Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night of 1946 was 
an outstanding success, a proper me­
morial to. the Notre Dame dead of 
World War II and a most appropriate 
tribute to the late John H, Neeson, '03, 
its founder. 

»*on, "West Hartford. Bill Hurley, Springfield, 
and John Cianci of New Britain, Conn. 
Acting on the first suggestion of the newly 

elected officers, all present rose for a public 
prayer In memory of the eight members of the 
club known to have lost their lives in ser^'lce. 
Preliminarj- plans were made for a. Communion-
breakfast in honor of these men. Rev. 'John 
Ptaelan, of St. Lawrence OToole parish. Hart­
ford, was unanimously chosen chaplain for the 
club. AI Lawton 
Cleveland 
The club couldn't get the Universal Notre Dame night program on the radio, but other­wise all went well. In fact, something like 200 Notre Dame men—perhaps the largest eathering at any Cleveland Club affair to date •—assembled in Chariey Rohr*!« famed restaur­ant (upstairs, away from the other diners) and solemnized the occasion with those three hallowed human and Christian, observances: beer, sandwiches, and talk of old times. It ought to be mentioned that President Eddie Killven introduced National President, Tliomas 
Samuel Caidinal Striteh. cnrchbishop oi Chicago, was the chief speaker as the Notre Dame Club ol Chicago had its annual TJniTetsal Notre Dame Night bonquet in the Palmer House, Chicago, on April 27. BeT. John Coronough, CS.C. »ice­president of the UniversitT. and Peter C. Beillr. Indianapolis, chairman of the As­sociate Board of lay Trustees, were other speakers and Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce was the toastmaster. Arthur L Conrad. '35. was the club's choirman in charge of the bonquet Left to right in the picture ore Deon Mc­Carthy. Father Caranaugh. Cordinal Striteh. Mr. Beilly and Mr. Conrad. 
F. B3'rnc (as if everybody didn't know him like ft brother); that Tom talked his usual good sense which is informed with the highest Notre Dame idealism and sees Notre Dame men as salt whicli if it loses its savor is fit only to be cast out and trodden under foot; that touie Buckley* complete with sleepy prin and sooth­ing pipe, told of his experiences overseas where he arranged educational programs for flghting men finally at peace; and that Father 3Iariarty of the national board, after remarking that Tom Bj-TOe is a bit better tlian all right, shed formality like an uncomfortable dress suit and sparkled with a humor and a reminiscence that were both Irish and Xotre Dame-lsh. But the important fact is that the men of Xotre Dame got together, and that if you listened for a moment, you would hear something like, "Phil, you old faker, how long is it? Twenty years —and so help me you haven't clianged a bit. . . . except for the hair." Joe Breig 
Dayton 
At the April 29 meeting of the club, John FernMling* and J<ilin F<M;ke took over the duties of president and secretary, respectively, for the coming year. 
Detroit 
Universal Xotre Dame Xiglit %vas celebrated liere in Detroit by the attendance of over 100 people at a dinner in the Hotel Whittier. 
Toastmaster Jay I.. (BifTy) Lee introduced as the principal speaker. Col. Rayniunil J. Kelly, recently released to inactive duty. Colonel Kelly spoke on the veterans and their prob­lems. 
National Alumni Secretary Jim Armstrong was the University's representative at tlie dinner and spoke on the history of Universal Notre Dame Night. Alumni Association plans, and the advantage of a Christian education in this mod'^'rn world. After this, he held a ques­tions and answers period on the University as it is today. 
Edvi'unl Cardinnl Afooney, archbishop of De­troit and an honorary alumnus of the Uni­versity, was invited to be one of the speakers, but due to illness was unable to attend. 
After the meeting members listened to a re­broadcast of Father J. Hugh O'Donnell's New York speech, through the courtesy of local station CKLW. Ed Roney 
Delaware 
Officers for the club for 194G-47 are as follows: president: Tlionms E. Dillon, '42, vice president: Joseph K. Mclntusli, *37, secretary-treasurer: John E. Rclth, '41, Board of Gover­nors: Curl Irwin, '38. Willlum D. Bailey, '24. and Arthur A. Baum, '36. 
Tliere was no formal observance of Universal Notre Dame Night, but we had a dance on May 17, wliich was the earliest available post-Lenten date. 
Paul Borsmann, *40, recently discharged from the Navy, has resumed residence in Wilniing­lon, working again for Du Pont. Joe FasKUn, '43, is also recently discharged and home in Pennsgrove. John E. Reitli 
Des Moines 
On April 27, the club renewed one of its old-time practices, entertaining the Notre Dame traek team the final evening of the Drake Relays. 
The meeting opened with dinner at the Fort Des Moines Hotel after which John T. Sturk, *17, acting as toastmaster renumerated tlie 25 years during which tliis practice had been followed. 
Otlier speakers were Coach Handy of the track team. Bill Leonard, member of tlie track team, Alex Wilson, Ix>yoIa (Chicago) coacii. and f^he r Sampson, a Notre Dama 
AL.UMN.AE PARTICIPATE 
I 

On a night in April there were groups of alumni gathered together throughout the countrj- for the dual purpose of observing Universal Notre Dame Night and to do honor to the memory of the Notre Dame men who had died in the service of their country. For those who may tend to forget that there are alum­nae as well as alumni of Notre Dame we quote parts of two letters received in the Alumni oirice. Both are from tlie Sisters of St. Joseph, one group in Higliland Park, Jlich.. writing, "The sisters of St. David and St. Benedict Schools, twelve in number, will each spend one hour before Our Lord in the tabernacle, and will ask him to be merciful to our deceased alumni of World 
•\Var II." And from the Mother-house in Cleveland, another group wrote, ". . . you may be certain that wherever there are two of us together we shall be at the radio listening to the Notre Dame broadcast and between times talking of the beautiful days enjoyed at Our Lady's University." 
man who has just returned to Des Moines after his service as an army chaplain. 
The final speaker of the evening was Most Rev. Gerald T. BerKen, bishop of Des Moines, wiio expressed a welcome to the Notre Dame team. 
Members of the committee for this program were: Harold P. Klein, George P. Pflanz III, James C. Shaw, Carlton D. Beh and IAUIS F . Kurtz. 
Evansville 
About 30 members were present on April 29 
at our dinner and meeting. The moving pictures 
of the campus were very fine and the guests 
enjoyed them tremendously. Bemle Witncki, 
the new football coach at Memorial High 
School here, gave an interesting talk and took 
the picture away with him to show to the 
students at the high school. 
At the election of ofiicers the following men were chosen to lead the club in the next year: Raj- Kersting, president; Pete Thole, vice president; John Borgman, secretary; and Ted Cassidy, treasurer. Bill Fitzserald 
Forf Wayne 
At a dinner meeting held in the Fort Wayne Athletic Club on Universal Notre Dame Night. Paul SuK^tetter was re-elected president of the club. Otlior ofiicers, all returned from the armed forces, are John Logan, vice president; Ed Disser, treasurer; and Bob O'Brien, secre­tary. 
Rev. Frederick J. Westendorf, of Gary, former army chaplain, paid tribute to the seven Fort Wayne area Notre Dame men who lost their lives in the war. After viewing movies of last year's Notre Dame-Na^-y game, the group listened to the radio broadcast from New York. Paul C. DeWald 
Greater Miami 
Tlie first, organizational meeting was on Feb. 22. Vince Giblin agreed to carry on as chairman for the club and John Kotte and Urb Kiikenge were selected to act as secretaries. Tliose attending the meeting were: AI Bmwn, Georffc Braufiguin, Jim Connell, Harry Elmore, Creston and Vince Giblin, Dick Hourihnn, Art Ilimbert, Urb Kokengre, John Kotte, Tom Mahon, Turn :>lullens, Georse Melster, John 3IcMani;ral, I. I- Probst, Bob Beilly, and B. J. Zimmerman. 
The second meeting was on March It and a subsequent meeting was planned for V- N. D. .Vight. 
Harrisburg 
On April 29 a few of us got together at the K. of C. in Harrisburg. New ofiicers for the club are as follows: Bob Klalber, presi­dent; Ijt, Comdr- J. ICMVawIey* vice president; and Jolui McNeill, secretary-treasurer. 
We plan to have several meetings before fall and hope to be able to have a golf tonma­ment in the spring or early summer. Besides the new ofiicers, those present were Joe Farrellt Bob Johnston, Ed Smith and myself. 
Tom Cartagno 

Houston 
At a meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night the following officers were elected: Conroy ScoffKio!** president; 'Hiomas A. Standish, vice president; and Leichton F. Toan^, secretary-treasurer. Father O'Donnell's talk was heard. Leighton Toung reports. 
KentucliY 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by members, their wives and friends, at the Colonial Gardens. Everyone, and it was well-attended, enjoyed the dinner dance and the other festivities, especially the impromptu Conga dance of newly returned vice-president, Jim Casper. 
The following incoming ofiicers were In­stalled: president—Tom Balleit, 1st vice presi­dent—William Woemer, 2nd vice president— John Baiinon, treasurer—Carl Rattennan, secre­tar>*—Faal Xafel, Jr. Eajcecs J. Stenerle 
Memphis 
At a meeting of the club April 29 the fol­lowing new officers were chosen: Frank How-land, '25. president; I^onls Bazsotti, '45, vice-president; Neil Farrell, '35. secretary; and Jim Welsh, '40, treasurer. 
The sympathies of the club were extended to Michael McConnack, '99, and Bonnell McConnack, '36, the husband and son of Mrs. Jeannette O'Donnell McCormack who died in April after an illness of several months. These two McCormacks represent the second and third of three generations of that family who have attended the University. ]incIiaH McCor­mack, Sr., deceased, having graduated in 1867. 
C. F. J. Miwney 

M ONongofcefo Valley 
The club held its first public affair on Sunday. March 31. . the loth Anniversary of Rockne's death, v/ith the largest Communion breakfast ever held in St. Jerome's parish in Charleroi. We plan to make this one of our annual aiTalrs. 
The speakers were: Edward Dean, *28. presi­dent of the club. FMher Vincent Brennan, Jimmy Riu»ell, coach of the Donora High School football team, and Father James F-McKeever, pastor of St. Jerome's. Yours truly acted as toastmaster. 
Jim Devlin, '33. of Pittsburgh was a guest. Jim is employed in Charleroi and will become a regular member of our club, if he can find a house in this locality. 
We held our Universal Notre Dame Night observance In conjunction with the Western Pennsylvania Club in Pittsburgh. 
George C. Martiaet 

NorfheQsf Kansas 
This new club, with headquarters at Leaven­worth, began in April with 15 members from Hiawatha; Atchison. Parsons, Hiattville. Ft. X«avenwortb, Port Scott and Kansas City. The directors of the club are Joe O'Brjran, of Hiattville.. Joe Bawcs^ of JLeavenwortb, Jack 
Present at the Mon-Valley Club's Rockne breakfast on March 31 were, seated, left to right Ed Dean, '28, president, Charles Montgomery, '35, Jimmy BusseU, '29, Father Charles McKeever, pastor of St. Jerome's at Charleroi. Standing, left to right, George Martinet '34, Lou Apone, '41, Carl Apone, '48, Vxnce Capano, '26. 
Hayci*, of Atchison, Jim Bmy. of Kansas City, and Dan Foley, of Leavenworth, -who will also act as secretary-treasurer. 
Nearly 50 members and guests gathered at the Twin-Gables in Leavenworth on Universal Notre Dame Night to witness football movies and to hear the radio talks by Father J. Hui^h O'Donnrll and Clare Bootho Luce. Dan Foley 
Milwaukee 
The club observed Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner at the Medford Hotel. The highlight was a talk by Prof. Frank Flynn from the University. He dwelt on social prob­lems of the post-war period and challenged members of the club to take an active part in local organizations. 
Especially welcome at the dinner were the out-of-town guests. From Watertown Fathers Fat UaffKrrty, John Devers, George Meagher, and Elmer Gross; from Kenosha. Jolin Brannon; from West Bend, Stephen O'Meara and Dave and Tom Rolfs; Madison was well-represented by John W. Roach, Frank Sweeney, and John £. Martin. The club invites alumni from all of the towns in this section of the state to join in our events. 
New officers for the following year are: John Clauder, president; Bob Dieckelman, vice presi­dent; and Tom Dixon, secretarj'-treasurer. Tlie outgoing officers will form an executive com­mittee for the club. Kod Sullh-an 
New Jersey 
On Universal Notre Dame Night Phil Heinle directed a very enjoyable affair at the Down Town Club In Newark. 125 members and guests were present to enliven the proceedings and to listen to the. speakers, who included Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of Notre Dame*s graduate school. Alexander F. Ormsby, dean of the John Marshall College Law School, Capt. Tom Hamilton and Herman Hickman, of the Na\'y and Army coaching staffs respec­tively, and Joe Byrne. Prexy Dick Dericks welcomed the guests and introduced the toast­master, Russell A. Riley, of Orange. • 
Father Moore commemoriLted with a short memorial senrice the memorj' of Notre Dame men who had died in the service. Fathers of four of these men attended as honored guests and were introduced by Father Moore. 
At the May 14 meeting at the Robert Treat in Newark we held election of officers. The following were chosen to lead the club for the coming year: Frank Miltniaeo president; Faol Murrisun, vice president; BUI Bolchux, secre­tarj'; and Clark Reynolds; treasurer. The trustees are Phil Heinle, Ijiro* Doyle and Rtiy GeiKcr. Bill Bolclioz 
New Orleans 
Universal Notre Dame Night was the occa­sion for the first gathering of the alumni since the Notre Dame-Tulane game. The evening was spent very enjoyably at the home of Charles E. de la Venpne. At the election of oHicers which followed a business meeting the following men were chosen for the coming year: AVilliam B. Dreux, '33. president; James 
E. Fairet, '30, vice president; William H. Jnhnstim, *44, secretary'; Franklin C. Hoch­reiter, "35. treasurer. Patrick E. Burke, 'S6. was elected honorary president. 
We ask that all Notre Dame men in this area notify the secretarj' of their whereabouts so that they will be properly informed of all our functions. The address is 2207 American Bank Bldg., New Orleans 12. 
^ilUiam -11. Johnston 
New York Cify 
The Universal Notre Dame Night party was a grand success. It was held in tlie main ballroom of the Biltmore Hotel and a capacity crowd of club members, their wives and guests, enjoyed the talks given by Clare Boothe Luce 
, and Anne O'Hare McCormack. Due to a crowd­ed program Father O'Dunnell had to leave after saying only a few words, to talk on the national hookup. The party was handled splendidly by Paul Lillis and his assistants. 
On ^larch 31 the fifteenth annual Rockne Communion Breakfast was held at the New York A.C. Over 125 guests heard Ftank Walker, former Postmaster General, declare that Notre Dame was closest to his idea of an ideal uni­versity. In addition to Mr. Walker, Joe Bynw, the toastmaster introduced such other nota­bles as Father Lace, C.S.C., of the Bengal Mis­sions. Paul Castner, who told some intimate 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
tales of "Rock," and Ed Kemied}-. Jack lA­velle was committee chairman for the affair. 
The Notre Dame Club of New York donated 
11,000 to the new chapel on the campus and 
also gave a ver>* generous contribution to the 
Alfred E. Smith Section of St. Vincent's Hospi­
tal in New York. Both of these contributions 
were from the Notre Dame Trust Fund, that 
once again has been organized with enlarged 
functions to take care of such donations. 
John A. Hoyt, Jr. 
Norfhern California 
On April 27 we held our first dinner at the Olympic Club in San Francisco. The following new officers were elected: William T. Byrne, president; Thomas M. FItxpntrick, Jr., secre­tarj*. Tom FStxpatrick 
Philadelphia 
A fitttag and timely tribute to the memory of one of Notre Dame's most distinguished alumni was the feature of the Philadelphia Club's obser\'ation of Universal Notre Dame Night. At a dinner dance held at the Sylvania Hotel 230 Notre Dame men and their friends heard the announcement of the establishment of the John H. Necson Memorial Scholarship. Mr. Xceson, who died last December, was the founder of Universal Notre Dame Night, and at the time of his death was a member of the board of lay trustees of the University. 
Father Matthew Keough. heroic chaplain of Guadalcanal, was the guest speaker, and Rev. James E. C^nnerion, C.S.C., president of the new King's College at Wilkes Barre, brought welcome news. 
New officers are: Edward J. (Doc) Lyons, president; John H. Nees<in, Jr., vice president; Charlie DoDnell>*, treasurer; Joe Mnlqneen, assistant treasurer; and Paul Toland, secretary. 
During the recent month Lt. Comdr. Hobart 
O. Shewi, Wrank W. Connelly, James H. Fuller, and C. J. James were added to our ranks. If there are any other Notre Dame men in the Philadelphia area, and this Includes New Jersey south of Trenton, we would like to hear from them. They can write to the secretary at 4605 Leiper St.. or call him at Jef 7572. We meet on the second Tuesday of each month at the Philopatrian Club, 20th and Walnut Sts., Philadelphia. 
Harold Hall was the guest speaker at our May business meeting and gave us some inside dope on the editing of a pictorial industrial magazine. 
Joe Cattle has recovered In fine shape from a recent operation: Ed Kelcher and Jerry McFarland are out of the service, Ed working for the Quartermaster Corps and Jerry wait­ing for September to resume his studies at the University. pam Xoland 
Phoenix 
The club had a meeting in the office of Robert D. Kendall, on April 29. Reels J. IWIon, temporary president, presided, and others present were Robert D. Kendall, le s HeBele, E. J. Hilkert, John P. Joyce, secretarj-, and Paul Rist of Detroit. Plans were discussed to complete organization of a Phoenix N. D. C'"l>. John p_ Joyce 
Rhode Island and South­eastern Massachusetts 
We observed Universal Notre Dame Night on April 30 at the Narragansett Hotel. Providence, with 103 persons in attendance. Our event was. held on April 30, Instead of the 29tli. so that we could be honored by the presence of FSither CsTaJUDKh. 
The event was dedicated to the memory of those members of the club who paid the su­

Volume 24, No. 3, June, 1946 
The Philodelphia Notre Dame Club meets on UniTersol Notre Dame Night. Left hand picture, bottom row. left to sisbt. Rev. Chorles Mahoney, CS.C. chaplain; Dr. E. J. Lyons, club president- James H. Crowley, toastmasten Harold E. Duke. retiiiDg president. Top row. left to right Ed Kosky; Walt Ridley, retiring vice president- Charles Conley, treosareR John H. Neeson. Jr.. Tice president- Dan Halpin. chairman of the dinner. 
Center picture, left to right. Joe Ryan, lufrs. A. G. Metx, Sr.. Charles Conley, ROT. Charies Mahoney. CS-C^ Mrs. R E. Dnke. Rev. Matthew Keough. Hal Duke. Jim Crowley, Doctor Lyons, Rev. James E. Connerton. CS.C.. president of King's College. Ita, 
E. J. Lyons. Leo Mclntyre. Foreground. John Doris. Right hand pictiure. Hal Duke, Jim Crowley and Doctor Lyons. 
preme sacrifice in World War II and the late Charles A. Grimes, '20, founder of the club. Father CaTanangrh was the principal speaker. 
Rev. Russell J. McVinney paid tribute to the 
•war dead and presented scrolls, enrolling them in the perpetual legion of prayer at the Cister­cian Monastery at Cumberland, to the families of the boys. Those so honored were Francis CiLsick, Henry McConnell, James T. Connell and James A. Malcahy. 
A suitably-inscribed gavel was presented to Mrs. Elizabeth Grimes, mother of the late Charliie Grimes, the club's first president. Gavels were also presented to the other past presi­dents: Robert W. Ponrers, Thomas 5. Collins, I.eo R. 3Ic^ll«on and John S. McKieman. 
Other speakers on the program were Governor John O. Pastore, Mayor Dennis J. Roberts. Anxelo Bertclli, Springfleld. Mass., Rev. Vincent C Dore. dean of Providence College. John J, McLuuKhlin, club president; Cornelius Shackett and John A. 31clntyre, co-clinirmcn of the event and Rnsscll L. 'Hunt, club secretary. I^eo McAloon was the toastmaster. Russell Hunt 
Rock River Valley 
On Universal Notre Dame Night we gathered at PJum Hollow Country Club at. Dixon. 111., and everyone was pleased to see such a large turnout. After a delicious chicken dinner the meeting was turned over to Willard Jones, who presided in the absence of our president, Jim Bales who was out tinkering with his Lee County Republican machine. The machine was soon rolling apparently, for Jlin'showed up be­fore the meeting-was over. 
The special guest of the evening was M. Douglas Grant, sports editor of the Frceport "Journal-Standard** and •father of Dick Grant, the only Notre Dame manjInJRock River Valley to die in the war. . :'^;; .:rjj^ 
New officers for the coming year are: Vincent 
F. Carney, president; Thomas A. Kersan, vice president; Robert J. Schmelzle, secretar>'; and lAwrencr E. Burke, treasurer. 
Bob Schmelzle 

ftocAesfer, N. IT. 
Observing Universal Notre Dame Night, a verj- successful dinner celebration was held at the Sheraton. Dr. George Kettell, pastor of Old St. Mrr>**s and the principal speaker, chal­lenged the alumni to take an active part in public affairs. The 70 guests present also heard Harry Wrijcht, the new Aquinas coach here. greet his Rochester fellow alumni. 
Several new faces were in evidence, among them IJCO Hoffschneider, back at his medical practice. Bill liVhcIehan, with his brother in the insurance business, Vince Bollard* a hotel operator in Hamlin, and Hal Zimmer* now a father and working as a parole officer for the State industrial School. Dr. Junle Johantsen, Just recently back from the Pacific and on his way to Navy Hospital In New York, John Ross and Nick MarcliioU from Newark also attended. 
The club registered an otliclal protest of the condemned movie. "The Outlaw," which has been playing to Rochester audiences for a couple of weeks. 
Bits: Congrats to Jerry Flynn on his new job as athletic publicity director at the U- S. Naval Academy and to Dick Sullivan on his 
, 

showing in the state bowUnff tournament. ^ . . I'm leaving for the University of Chicago soon to get my master's in Social Work. 
Son Fernando Valley 
We had a- tumont of 52'people at our com­memoration of Universal Xotre I>ame Nlsht. Anions those present were; Ed Ashe* Jokm McAidle, CluKk Wricht, BUI Corr. Bob Waif sky. Mm Fn, Tom Feye, B*h Waldcck, Dsa Margaa. BUI StcTcas. Art Fiedler, Dr. Ttace Gorrilla, ]>r. Toan. Spcacer, !<«• Baafi, Ijm Baddalz. Bob WMe, Kd BcaanW. Ten BMt­aid, Bajr Zaller, 'aek, Fiepek, ana myself. 
Our EUest speaker. R^v. "Benjamin F. Bawling, of the Paulist Fathers, 'o^'tlln'ed the advantases of a Catholic education as compared to the athiesttc philosophy as taught in certain non-
Present at observance oi UniTenal Note* Oom* IGglil by thm Notra DOBM CUb of Rhode bland and Southeastern Mossoehnsatis wan; aaolad. left to right. Bar. Vincent C. Dore. OJP.. dean oi Providenc* CoUag*. Mca. Elisafatath Grimaa, wcAmr of the founder of the club, the late Charles A. Grimaa. '20, Bar. John J. Cawmangli. C.S.C.. Hon. John A. Pastore. goTemor oi Bhoda blond. Bar. Bnasall J. Mcinanay, club chaplain, and Connie Shackett co-choiiman. Staadingi lail to righL Bn»all L Hunt, secretary. Eugene J. Moreau. vice piasidaat. John A. Mdotyra. co-chcdnnaa. John J. McLaughlin. presidenL Leo B. MeJUooo. traaaniar and toastmaatar. aad Angelo BertellL 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Part of the gathering for the San Fernando Volley Club's Unirersal Notre Dome IHght dinner meeting. 
sectarian universities. Following his address we nad a round table discussion, after which there was the showing of a film depicting the University from its founding to the present day. Bob Hut'thtr 
St. Joseph Valley 
The members of the club and their guests observed Universal Notre Dame Night with a smoker at the Indiana Club. There was a short memcrial service for the 13 Notre Dame men from the area who gave their lives in the war. Dean Clarence £• 3kIanion, of the College of I>aw, presided, and introduced Mayor Kenneth Dempsey, who presented greetings from the people of South Bend, and Father Frank Cava­naaj^h, C.S.C., who responded for the Univer­sity. Entertainment was provided by the Notre Dame Glee Club -and by several student vaude­ville acts. Fftuiciti Junes was chairman of the affair. 
Toledo 
Tlie largest turnout in the history of the Toledo Club obsen-ed Universal Notre Dame Night in the Tower Room of the Hillcrest Hotel. John Q. Carey, the retiring president, introduced the guest speaker, Kev, Francis P. CrfMNlall, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, who spoke on the aims and progress of the Alumni Asso­

ciation. Prof. John H. Shrehan head of the Bob Hellmnff, Jtie McGlynn and 1^>n Fehllr Economics Department, was a special guest. were present for Father O'Brien's lecture. The Cana Conference, held on Palm Sunday. 
The following officers were chosen: president. 
was attended by some 50 Notre Dame alumni 
L. Bentanl Eni^Iish; vice president, John A. 
and their wives. Father Louis Putz, from the 
IIuTst; secretarj-, Robert F. Schramm; treasurer, Karl M. SyrinK. The Board of Governors in­cludes Bernard G. Kesting-, John P. Horiey, Fred. A. Spren^^er, Paul J. Dooley, and Joseph I,. Tillnian. 
Following the meeting and the election a buffet lunch was served. A meeting of the new officers and the Board of Governors was held on May C at the Catholic Club. 
Sf. Louis 
At a two-hour luncheon meeting at the Hotel Coronndo on March 15, Rer. J. Huffh O'Don­nell, C.S.C., gave a resume of the University's activities during the war and a brief exposition of post-war plans. Father O'Donnell was in St. IfOUis to attend the funeral of John Cardi­nal Glennon. Due to the brief advance notice, it was possible to reach only a limited group of club members with regard to the luncheon. 
On March 20 Rev. John A. O'Brien of the University faculty was the principal speaker at a lecture and open forum sponsored by the Loretto Foundation at Webster College. Several members, including Bill Gillespie, Gus* Keesan, University was present. Regarding this con­ference additional details appear elsewhere in this issue. 
RcT. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Gmduate School at Notre Dame, attended a meeting arranged by Joe McGlynn at the :Mis­souri Athletic Association on April 23. Father Moore outlined the University's proposed pro­gram for the Graduate School and for the strengthening of the faculty. 
The second Annual Monte Carlo Party at the University Club on May S was attended by more than 200 people and made the first one seem a small affair. The affair was under the co-chairmanship of Charlie GiomI and Roland Dames. l,oa Fehlis and Fred Welder arranged the program. Fred S. 3IcXeill 
Wosftingfon, D. C. 
Approximately 115 members and guests at­
tended our Universal Notre Dame Night banquet 
held at the Carlton Hotel. Rev. John Cara­
•uuMch, C.S.C., vice president of Notre Dame 

was the principal guest and only speaker. A number of prominent Washington olTicials at-­
At the head table at Washington's Universal Notre Dame Night dinner were, left to right George Howard. ezecutiTe Tice president oi the club; General Gordon Young, Bev. Bernard E. Bansing, C.S.C.. superior of Holy Cross College; Hon. Guy Mason, district conunissioner; Bobert W. Cavanaugh, chaizman of the dinner; Judge Ambrose O'Connell. U. S. Court of Cus­toms and Patent Appeals; Bev. John J. Cavanaugh. C.S.C„ vice president of Notre Dame ond prindpcd speaker; Arthur J. (Dutch) Bergman, president of the club and toastmaster; Senator Homer E. Capehart of Indiana; Senator E. P. Carville of Nevada; Hon. Edward M. Curran. U. S. district attorney; Hon. Leslie L. Biffle, secretary of the Senote; Hon. John Bussell Young, president of the D. C. Board of Commissioners; Joseph C. McCairaghty, {iresident of the Board of Trade; Bernard Loshbough, chairman of the Board of the club. 
Volume 24, No. 3, June, 1946 
tended, among them Senators Homer E. Cape-hart of Indiana and Edward P. Carrille, of Nevada, Hon. Edward M. Curran, U. S. District Attorney, Hon. Leslie L- Biffle. secretary of the Senate, Jadice Ambrose 0*ConnrtI, Rev, Bernard Raisinff, C.S.C.» superior of Holy Cross College, Hon. John Russell Young, president of the 
D. C. Board of Commissioners. Joseph C. MoGarraghy, president of the Board of Trade, and Bishop Gorman, of Reno, Nev. 
After tlie dinner a quartet of seminarians from Holy Cross College sang "Notre Dame, Our brother" in honor of the Notre Dame war dead. 
The afTair was handled by Bob CavanaoKli* recently elected to the Board of Governors of the club, and the toastmaster was Arthur J. <Dutch) Berpman, president. 
Western Pennsyfvanio 
On April 22 we held our annual business meeting and election of oflicers. The follow­ing were chosen for the year: H. Caii Iiinlc, *35. president; Larr>- 0'T<»ole, '36, vice presi­dent; Earl Briejcer, *31, treasurer; and Huso lavuvctti, '34, secretary. The members enjoyed a spirited discussion of the UN policy, pre­cipitated by the Alumni Association letter on that subject. A wire, urging that any UN investigation of Spain be extended to other countrie<5 was sent to UN headquarters. IVitr ^tllson was given a special commendation for Ills outstanding efforts in behalf of the Uni­versity. 
John 3IcMahon» chairman of the Vocational Committee, reported on the activities of his group. Of the IS cases processed by his office since December, six men have secured jobs, five have signified their Intention of re­turning to school, three are stlU looking for work, and the remaining four have not re­ported a second time. John says that this failure to report progress is the principal diificulty in coordinating the efforts of the committee. 
Wither Vince Brennan offered prayers for the Western Pennsylvania Notre Dame men who died In World War 11. 
The club observed Universal Notre Dame N'ght with a party at the Fort Pitt Hotel. President Carl link arranged for movies and refreshments, but all activities ceased at 11:15 so the broadcast could i»e heard. Father Vine* Mooney, C.S.C. was a surprise visitor; he accompanied his nephew, Fother Vince Brennan. and spoke on liis experiences as chaplain in the Army. Rev. John II. ^Vilson, C.S.C., was also present. Others at the party :Dr. Dick and I^rry 0*T»ole, Drs. Bob and Jim McDon­ald. Frank, I^rr>- and John O'Donnell. Bill Suehr and his fellow-Craftonites, Leo and Bill Dillon. Huffh Murphy, Ed Huff, Paul Anderson, Bob Fnlton. Larry Smith, Vince Burke. John O'Connor. Tom Powers, Rudy Cmkovic, Joe O'Ronrice and John Reardon. 
Larpj- O'Donnell. who did his share of para­trooplng in his more than five years in the service, is now enjoying terminal leave. . Paul Anderson Is also a recent dischargee, though still associated with the milltar>-. being on the stair of the Vet's Administration In Pittsburgh. Bill O'Toole Is reported to be on his way home from tne European theater. 
IIOKo lacoretti 

Youngstown, Ohio 
Twenty-nine members, including representa­tives from Struthers. Warren, Sh'aron. Pa., and Sharpsville. Pa., attended the Universal Notre Dame Night banquet at the diocesan Catholic Action Center. Kev- Norman P. Kellry of Girard. one of Notre Dame's greatest boosters In this area, was the principal speaker. He was named spiritual director. 
Golie Mornn, '32. was elected president, suc­ceeding Charlie Cushwa. Jr.. who had served since the club's re-organIzatIon In 1941. Charlie, who is outstanding among the city's Catholic laymen and a leader in Red Cross and Com­munity Chest projects, was responsible for the club's reactivation after nine years of in­activity. 
Bill Dunlevy. '30, succeeds Johnny Monuif '29, Gabe's brother, as vice president and Tommy Kerrigan, is new secretary-treasurer. Dr. Jim BigKins, '31, of Sharpsville. Al Tan Hiiffel, MO. of Warren, and Cushwa were elected to trustees for two-year terms, and Dim Ileltzel, '43, of Warren, Joe Wallace, ex. '31, and I T.'ere given one year-trusteeships. 
New faces present. . . . Anthony Dean, Struthers, Ed Madden, Sharon, Joe Dray and Left Keating, Warren, and Johnny Fleaks. Paul Mooney and Jim Dohar were discussing plans for returning to the campus next fall. 
Paul Fleming, '2C. who is back in town • after a few years in New York City, was on hand again with I\iin and Gerr>- Wolf, GeorKC Kelley, Al Mustriana, Judge John Buckley, Walter Vahey and l»aul Kane maintaining their perfect attendance records. 
Among tliose back from the service were: Fnuik Savajce, Bill Eaton, Ed DeBartolo, and Frank Hopkins. 
Bill Piedmont, '39, of Norfolk, now in Boy Guidance with the K. of C, and Jack Wlla­nmnn, '40, with "Grit" In Wllliamsport, were visitors here shortly after the party. Jack llagun, another dischargee who Is with Pittsburgh Steel, couldn't make train con­nections to get here in time from the Smoky City. 
Congratulations to John Moran, married to Marion Conroy, at St. Patrick's church. May 
11. Brother Gabe was best man. ^ Pete Sheehan 
Out of Service* ­

1928—Francis C. Schroeder, Detroit Lakes. Minn., A. 
1930—Thon-.as P. Cunningham, New Tork City, A. 
19:!1—stein 7rt A. Gansauge. Huntington, JT. Y., A; Harold J. Tuberty, Logansport, Ind., N. 
1933—Andrew C. Botti, Middletown, N. T.. A: Joseph C. Breliler. .Lansing. ^lich.. A; Charles 
L. Farris. New Vork City. X. 
1931—^Vincent A. itcCanney. Los Angeles, A; John H. Sullivan. Hartford, Conn., A. 
1933—John Sr. Allen, Battle Creek, Mich., N; John W. Carberry. Los Angeles, N. 
1936—Guy J. Kull. Jr.. Detroit, Mich., A. 
1937—Leonard B. Craig. Elizabeth, X. J., A; Wiliiatr. J. FItzpatrick, Troy, X. Y., A; Justin C. JtcCann. Xew York City. X. 
19;i8—John G. Schniitz. Toledo, Ohio, A: Robert 
F. Holtz, Elkhart. Ind.. A. 
1939—Bernard J. Feeney. Washington. D. C, 
A:
 Jack C. Hynes. South Bend. X; Jerome 

J.
 Kaczmarek. South Bend. X; Paul E. Mor­rison. Jersey City, X. J., M. 


1910—John M. Broderick. Allentown. Fa., A; Francis "V. Clolino, Jr.. Greenville. Miss.. A; John L. Darrouzet. Jr., Dallas. Texas. A; John E. Mack. Evanston. 111., CG; Joseph 
M. McKean. Jersey City, X. J., A; George 
J. JIcMorrow. Xazareth, Mich., A; Louis J. Wagner. Koivomo, Ind., A. 
1941—Kenneth F. Beh. Des Moines. Iowa, N; Lawrence II. Bracken. Brooklyn, X. Y., A; Joseph P. Cattle. Philadelphia. N; Charles 
" Code: A. Army: X. Xavy; M. Marines; C.Gl. Coast Guard. 
V. Crimmins.'Watertown, N. Y., A; Tbomaa 
G. Currigan. Denver. A; Thomas A. Delia, Brooklyn, N. Y., A: Samnel W. Gwinn. OrangeburK, S. C. A; Robert J. Kenney, ChicaEO, X; William C. Malaney. Hllwankee, A; Donald J. Marietta, Clinton. Ind., If; George E. Miles, Brooklyn, N. Y., Ar John 
W. Murphy, Newark. O., A; SUltbn E. Wil­liams, Palo Alto, Calif., A. . 
IMS—Erwin C. Atanowski, South Bend, A: William C. Baader, CUIIicothe. O.. N; . Charles G. Hasson. Ebensbnrgr. Pa., A; Jerome 
F. Heinlen, Garrett, Ind., A; Robert M. Hutton, Richmond, Va., N; Thomas V. Powers, Enid, Okla.; ,A; Howard J. Schellen­berg, Arlington, Va.. A; John H. Stauber, 
. MarshSeld, Wis.i N; John E. Treacy, Chi­cago, CG; John P. Cronin, Rochester. Minn., M. 
IM3—John L. Behr. Oneida, X. Y. A; James 
E. Brock. Columbus. Xebr., M; Francis H. Conaty, Whitewater, Wis.. N; Ollie Hunter, Erie. Pa., X; William M. Lower, Gary, Ind., A; William J. Olvany, Jr., Forest Hills. N. Y.. X; John B. Powers, Enid, Okla., A: Fred Beckman, South Bend, A;, Bob Kasberff, Indlanapclls, X; AVayne D. Zeller, Mishawaka, Ind., A. 
1M4—John F. O'Hara, Westmont, N. J., N. 
IMS—John L. Denniston, Lombard, III., A; Kevin R. Rohan, New York City, A. 
1916—Robert W. Schellenberg. Arlington, Va., X. 
SESSLER METHODS USED 

Two new, unique methods which gi«at­ly expedited the identification of vessels and planes by the Army Air Forces dur­ing World War 11, were developed by Prof. Stanley B. Sessler, head of the Department of Fine Arts. 
Professor Sessler, who served as an AAF officer in the war, perfected a method of identifying vessels which stressed a simplified silhouette of vessels in the far distance and the difference in proportion in various types of vessels. His drawings done in connection with vessel identification, placed onphasis on the definite shai)e and proportions of vessels even in the far distance. 
His method of plane identification fea­tured the superimposing of colored slides of friendly and enemy planes which im­mediately brought out the differences between the two. This was the first intro­duction of color to the AAF course in plans identification which previously had been taught using only black and white drawings. 
Both new methods of vessel and plane identification were adopted by the AAF and Professor Sessler's drawings in con­nection with the methods were used in training manuals by the Air Corps. Pro­fessor Sessler, during his two and one­
.half years in the Air Corps, served at various times as instructor in vessel and plane identification combat intelligence officer, and in the ground training pro­gram. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
»

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 

Miss Rita Elizabctl) Cordis and Lt. Cnidr. John J. MaHiii, CSXB, -40. Miss Mars- M. Brown and Lt. Daniel F. Stevens, CSXK, '^-l. Jliss Dorotlij- Kapsar and Thomas F. Banigan. •42. iliss Ellen Clare Johnson and John K. Ma­lone, M2. Miss Mary M. Minses and James A. Eean, •40. Miss Phyllis K. Xoifom and Oscar Lupi-Del­icado, ^46. Miss Jcannette C. Roberts and Carroll J. O^Connor, ex. '47. 
Marriages 
Miss Marion Conroy and John F. Moran, '29. Youngstown, O.. May 11. 
Jliss Betty Morgan and John F. Gillooly, '35. Rochester. X. Y.. May IS. Miss Helen Marie Badaracco and Albert J. Itai-arino, '35. University City. Mo.. May 11. 
Mi.^s Betty Bishop and Cliarles M. Callahan, 

•3S. Notre Dame, Ind., June 15. Miss Cecilia E. Purdy and Ernest F. IJiViBne, '39. Otis. Ind., May 11. Miss Caryl JI- Cavanaugh and Joseph B. l«nis, '39, Cliicago, Feb. 2. Miss Patricia Kelly and Seal J. Gleason, '40, Libertyville. 111.. April 27. Miss Marj- Jane Klebba and Ilarrj- H. rhil­lips, '40, Detroit, June 1. Miss Marj- Ixiuise Hagerty and Robert G. Sanford, '40, Shorenood. \Vis., May 11. Miss Patricia Jane King and Daniel E. I£il­
cartner III, '42. Xotre Dame, June 12. Miss Ruth Evangeline Koechel and Herbert 
A. Beeker. '43, Alameda, Calif.. April 22. Miss Carolyn Corcoran and Itiehard C. Cree\y, 
•43. Notre Dame, May 1. Miss Sally Ford and En.s. James J. Fennell, CSNB, '43, Saratoga Springs. X. Y.. April 1. Miss Roxana Ruth Wertz and Dr. l«uis J. Makielski, e.x. '43. Mishawaka. Ind._ May 4. Miss Mars- Lee Porter and Donald J. Jliller, '43. Seattle. Wash., Oct. 4, 1945. 
Miss Jeanne Wadswortli and lA. (jc) Cliarles JI. Urmela, USSK, '44, Baltimore, Md., March 10. 
Jliss Carol Ann McCrearj- and Robert \V. Peters, ex. '45. Chicago, 111., April 0. Miss Joanne Jenkins and John I.. Baringer, ex. '4S, Mt. Vernon. X. Y".. May 27. Miss Betty Evans and Steven J. Xemeth, ex. 
•40.
 South Bend. June S. Miss Ellen Kline and Dr. Berl B. Ward, e.x. 

•47,
 Springfield, O.. May 4. 


Miss Alice Phelan Doyle and Lt. AVilliani 1\ Slahoney, Jr., IJSXR. '39, Santa Clara. Calif., May 16. 
Miss Ruth Kollmar and Patrick J, Cart-j-, 

•3S, Kokomo. Ind.. May 27. 
Miss Norma Ann Tait and Thomas J. MeGee, Jr., ^41, Brooklyn. N. Y., June 12, 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. I*. Thomas FloulT, '23, announce the birth of a daughter. March 7. 
Dr. and ilrs. Frank P. Kane, '29. announce 
the birth of Frank Paul, Jr., March 22. 
.•^Ir. and ilrs. Jamca ^y. Sullivan, '30, an­nounce the birth of Margaret Elizabeth and Martha Xancy. April 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. John J- McXeill, '33, announce the bjrtli of John, Jr.. April 2. Mr. anil Mrs, Andrew D. Hufnaeel, *36, an­nounce the birth of John Andrew. May 18. Mr. and Mrs. John M. PUarsKi. '36. announce the birth of John Joseph, May IS. Mr. and Mrs. J. Fendall Fronins, '37, an­nounce the birth of Mary, May 16. Mr. and Mrs. Tiioma-i G. Ka^-anagh, Jr., *38. announce the birth of Thomas Giles III, April 21. Mr. and Mrs- IJavid A. Gelber, '39. announce the birth of Jeffrey Samuel, April 2. . 
Lt. and Mrs. Kevin M. O'Gomian, '40, an­nounce tlic birth of ^iargiierite Constance, March 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin M. Sheridan. *40, an­nounce the birth of a daughter. April 16. 
Lt. Cmdr. and Mrs. Thomas P. Wall, '40 an­nounce the birth of Margaret Mar\*, Marcli 26. Mr. and Mrs. .-Inthuny M. Bernard, '41. an­
nounce the birtli of Patricia. Marcli 17. Mr. and Mrs. Arthur J. llumby, *41, announce the birth of Patricia Therese. April 20. Dr. and Mrs. Stanley R. Sheeran, Ml, an­nounce the birth of Xancj-, May 3. Mr. and Mrs. Thonms M'. Perry* '43, announce the birth of Kathleen ilaria, 2llay 20. 
Mr. and ilrs. John A. Warner, Jr., '43, an­nounce the birth of John .-Vndrew III. April 16. Mr. and Mrs. Kelly F. Co«>k, '47, announce 
the birth of Xancy Joanne. May 12. 
Deaths 
DATK DK.\THS 
Jo'ieph F. Gurfriui, '17, died on May 23 and Br>"an JoM-ph Defrnaii, '34, on June 1. 
Word has only recently reached the Alumni ollice of the death on Aug. 30, 1941, of John 
F. Coud. Jr., ex 'S5, of Omaha, Xeb. 
Hrneitt J. JlcKrlain, a student at Notre Dame in 1S90-91. died on May 19 at his home in South Bend. His condition had been grave for several days prior to Ills death as the result of a stroke of paralysis. 
After attenaing the University, Mr. McErlain entered the lumber business and rose to be 
a. partner ai the head of two lumber and build­ing supplies companies in South Bend. He was one of the organizers of the Indiana Trust Co., South Bend, an^ at tlie time of his death he wjis a director and vice president of the First Federal Saving and Loan association of South Bend. He was also a former city con­troller. 
Surviving besides his widow are two chil­dren, a brother and a sister. 
Samuel J. Spaldini^, *9S. Lebanon. Ky., died on March 22. 1945, It was learned recently in the Alumni Ollice. Tlio cause of his death was bronchitis, with which he had been troubled for somG time. 
Mr. Spalding, upon graduation from Notre Dame, passed the Kentucky bar examinations and served for several years in a law office in Lebanon. Then he became county clerk and served in this ollice for 2S years. At the time of his death he had been postmaster in Leba­non for nine years. 

Fknnk P. Burke. '03, died on March 30 at his home in aiilwaukee. Wis. He liad been in ill liealth for the past several years and for the five months preceding his death had not been able to take an active interest in the law firm, Alexander. Burke & Clark, in which he was a partner and with wliich he had been associated since his graduation from Notre Dame-
Mr. Burke was the brother of the late Rev. Josepli H. Burke. C.S.C.. '04. One son, John J., was graduated from Notre Dame in 1935, and another son, the late Frank P. Jr., was a Notre Dame student from 192S to 1931. Two daughters were graduated from St. Marj''s, Notre Dam**. 
Frederick J. Ka!«per, '04. died March 31 at his residence in Chicago. A graduate of the Harvard Law School and for many years a lawyer in Cliicago and Kansas City. 3Ir. Kasper had been employed by Pratt-Wln'tney Aircraft Co. during the war, and only recently Iiad re­turned to live in Chicago. He Is survived by a son, three daughters, and three brothers-
Julin C- Powers, '20. Cleveland, died suddenly on April H- John Iiad been active for 22 years in the real estate firm of Powers and Co., in association with his brother. 
After his graduation from Notre Dame. Jolin spent four years in Santiago. Chile, first as an exchange student, then as a representative of United States Steel Co. A native of Urbana, O.. he ser\'ed as a lieutenant of infantr>- in World War I- He was a member of the Knights of Columbus and of the Kiwants Club of Willoughbj-, O., where he resided-
Surviving are his wife, who is a sister of Father Thomas Tobln. '20. Portland Oreg., a daogluer, who is a student at St. Marj-'s College, Noire Dame, two bothers and one sister. 
Father Tobin was celebrant of the solemn funeral Mass for John. Rev. William Carey, C.S-C.. was sub deacon, and Rev- M. L. Moriariy was master of ceremonies, 
B. Vincent Pater. '22. of Hamilton. O- died on Marcii 26 in Fort Lauderdale, Fla-. where he and his family had been vacationing. In ill health for several years, Vince was stricken with influenza which developed Into pneumonia. He died a short time after being admitted to the hospital. 
Vince had been since graduation a prominent attorney In hts native city and was noted in the jtrofession as a trial lawyer. He was a past president of the Butler County Bar Asso­ciation and was, at the time of his death, president of the Notre Dame Club of Hamilton. Besides his widow, he leaves a son and daugh­ter, his parents, two brothers and a sister. 
Adolpli U. Frimmer, ex. *44. died on Jan. 23 in Tampa, Fia. Adolph had been discharged from the army only a month previous to his death, after spending more than four years in the service. 
- The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to the family of the late Mrs. Inez Edwards, wife of the late William H. "Cap" Edwards., 
•09; to Bwther Vincent, CS.C, '24. on the death of his father: to Brother Elmo, C.S.C.^ '37, on the death of his father; to John J. Lechner, '37, on the death of his father; to Charles M. Bmwn, '3S. on the death of his grandmrthcr: to Austin G. Jnneti. Jr.. '43, on the death of his father. 
Volume 24, No. 3, June, 1946 
PERSONALS 
101A '^^' MICHACX IM MORIAHTY, St. I 'lU*Catherine's Church, 3443 £. 93 St., Cleveland 4. O. 
Waleii £• finneican, of Evanston, 111., has been appointed director of medical administra­tion service for the Veterans Administration Branch Xo. 7 oiTice in Chicago. For the past 20 years Mr. Finnegan has been associated with vetenins' hospitals and the VA, both in Itllnols and Ohio. His present position will give him charge of medical administrative services at VA hospitals in Illinois. 'Wisconsin and Indiana. 
 I> STEERS, ItO S. Dearborn 

1911 FRED 
St.. Snite 1339. CliicaKo, III. 

R. Otto Prob«*t. of South Bend, recently was nnnied Klkhart (Ind.) district manager of the Indiana and Michigan Electric Co. 
 II. HAYES. 642 Third Ave.. 

1914 FKAXK 
Chula Vtstu, Calif. 

Charles Kihy, former Solicitor General of the Unitert States, was appointed legal adviser of the State Department, effective May 15. Mr-Fahy, at thf time of his appointment, was in Berlin assisting in the preparation of the <aseg a^aii.st tlie war criminals. 
1915 JAMES E. SANFOKD, 523G X. Lake­wood Ave.. Chicaf^o. III. 
From Jim Sanford: Bill MiKiney, laniencing the dearth of 1915 news, forwards the following: 
"Leo Welch is president of the Celtic Federal Savings and L.oan Association in Indianapolis. The Welch family suffered a groat loss in the pa.«t year in the announcement of the death of Leti. Jr., *3S, a flyer, in the South Pacific. Jolin MvShane is stilt doing effective work in tlie legal department of Indiana's Gross Income Tax Division. As for myself. I am still.en­deavoring to see that the people of Indiana are kept in good health by supplying only the best in drugs and vitamins. My immediate family, which includes two boys and two girls, is en,;oying the best of health." 
Clement Gerbfr, is the construction super­intendent for the Public Buildings Administra­tion. John Paul Cullen, '22. reported that Clem 
•was in charge of the remodeling of the regional oHice buildlpg of the Veterans Administration in Milwaukee. 
 VOLL, 206 E. Tutt St., South 

1917" J. 
Bend. Ind. 

Beniie Vi»II forwarded a letter from Danny liilicartner. Danny wrote: 
"I had a card from Dick Daley recently and he said that he heard Charlie McCauIey was runninjr a hotel in Cuba. That guy sure gets around; the last I heard he was manager of the Drake, in Philadelphia. 
"Young Dan is finishing up the junior ex­ecutive's training course with United Air Lines, and hopes to be assigned to their sales de­partment. He is engaged to Pat King, of South Bend. 
"Austin McXichols* boy is out for the foot­ball team as a center on the A squad. I may come down with Austie for the game that closes spring practice on June 1." 
ilarr>- Baujan, Dayton, O.. is on the execu­tive committee as assistant secretary in the campaign aimed at raising the money for the new University of Dayton Field House, con­struction of which will begin in the spring of 1947. Gene Mayl. *24, is secretary of the com­mittee. 
Thomas P* Scanlon, a student in the prep school and college, in 1913-14. is the editor and puliltsher of "The Surplus Record" with otfices in. Chicago. 
A Gregorian Mass was read during May for the intention of Howard Parker. The Masses were offered at the shrine of Our Lady of Perpetual Help, St. Alphonsus Church in Rome and were nrninged by Capt. Jerrj- Parker, *30, Howard's brother, who was in Rome for the papal consistory in Februarj*. 
IQI A JOHN A. LEM3IER, SOI Lake Shore I 7 I O Drive, E-canaba. Mich. 
Jolm G. Martin, since 193S the attorney general of "Wisconsin, is seeking renominatfon for that office on the Republican ticket. 
1921 I>AN W. DUFITY, 16W Terminal lower, Cleveland. Ohio. 
Dan Duffy's letter of February continues to bring enthusiastic responses from 'Slers. 
From Kay Schubmehl at South Bend: "Tou can be sure that the South Bend contingent, including Ilarrj- McClellan, Callix Miller. Jake Kline. Jerry Hoar, Walt Sweeney and yours truly w*ill be there along witii otliers in the area." 
From Joe Maaff in St- Louis: "Jim Arm­stninsr's letter regarding the housing and food situation is not very encouraging but it would take more than a little physical discomfort to keep me from returning and I hope everj*­one fee:s the same. It will not be possible for me to see any of the gang between now .and June 2S but I will try some letter writing in an effort to get some of them back." 
From Dick Scallan in Cincinnati: "It just does not seem possible that 25 years have slipped by since we left Notre Dame. . . . the reunion idea at Commencement sounds fine. I trust you will keep us informed as I would certainly like to sit in on this gather­ing." 
From .\l Cusiek in Chicago: "You may be sure I plan to be on hand for the 25th re­union. .. . I had a note from Bill Sherry and he tells me that he too received your letter and plans to be in South Bend for the big event." 
From Paul Berjrer in Burbank, Calif.: "I do get to see Larry Ott quite frequently. He is still conjuring up ideas of how to beautify our California landscape. . . . Just recently T had occasion to attend a meeting at the El Rancho with Diw Gorrilla along with Leo Ward. Frank Kane and a, number of others. . . . We have quite a contingent of Notre Dame men here at the plant, among them Jim Lydun. Ed ;Vshe and others. . . - T am not sure about getting to the reunion, although it is not out of sight, as I am looking forward to a New York trip wliich could come around Com­mencement time." 
From .Toe Tierney in New York: "I have decided that I can arrange to attend the re­union at Cotnmoncement time. .. . I have a son getting a degree there at that time so I can accomplish two tilings by making the trip. . -. Shortly after I left the Army. I came with the Veterans Administration as New York State agent for readjustment allow­ances." 
From .Jim Huxford. Syracuse, N. Y.: "I am planning to be present at the reunion and It will be a great pleasure to visit with members of our class. During the last 23 years I have been with the Central New York Power Corp. in the Industrial Engineering Power depart­ment at Syracuse, and my home is in Skane­ateles, N. Y. My son. D.avid, '42, is now in the Marine Corps and expects to be discharged about July 1." 
From Bill Alien In Chicago: "Since the receipt of your letter our friend Red DeCoorcey died. I know we will all be sorry about that, Kt. Rev. 3lsBr. Thomas V. Shannon, who re­ceived an honorarj- degree in 1921, is pastor of St, Mar>-'s Church at Lake Forest, III., and is an extraordinary man of whom we can all be proud as a fellow-alumnus. George AVitherie*! and I have discussed the reunion and we plan to be present. It would be good if it were possible to stay on the campus as we did for so many commencements." 
Kev. Maurice G- Flaherty, S.J., who was dean of education at Gonzaga University before the war, is now division chaplain with the 42nd (Rainbow) Infantry Division. In addition, he is the liaison officer between the army and the prince archbishop of Austria, and has many duties Involving' the administration and organi­zation of religious houses and schools. 
Ralph SJobers has been transferred to the Chicago branch sales office of the Kewanee Boiler Corp..' and is living at 3024 Waterloo Court in Chicago. 
Don Easley, South Bend, was named vice president of the northern Indiana chapter of the Indiana Association of Certified Public Accountants. 
109 9 OKRAU> ASam, 1> DortdBC KM C I ' A A K^chmter, N. T. 
Prom Kid Ashe: God has Issued a summons to another mem­ber of our class: Vincent Pater, of Hamilton; Ohio, who died recently. Elsewhere In this issue are details of Vincent's death. To Mrs. Pater, members of the immediate family, and other close relatives we send our expressions of s>Tnpathy. Vince was an excellent student in his. undergraduate days, and had a host of friends who admired his friendly manner and boundless energy. VInce was a candidate for office of president of the Senior Class, and was defeated In a very close election. "When he received his degree in law, he did not sever his loyalty to Notre Dame and to the class of 1922. He was faithful to both to the verj- end. 3Iay God grant him rest, eternal. 
William A. A. ••Bill" Castellini is now vice president of the Stokes, Palmer, DInerman Ad­vertising Agency, headqparters at 1301 En­quirer BIdg.. Cincinnati. Bill was at Notre Dame on May 20 with one of the new Crossley cars, en route to the East* Bill's firm Is publicizing tliis new small auto. 
Dan Younc, who is affiliated with Foley Bros., contractors of Pleasantville, N. Y., has changed his home residence to 444 Marvlne Ave., Drexel Park, Pa. Formerly he lived In Drexel Hill, Pa. 
We are still waiting to hear If Frank Bloemer and Eddie Pfeiffer, of Louisville, had anything but a friendly interest in Assault at the Derby. 
|A^ ^ PAVL H. GASTNEB, 26 Hoyt Ave., 
• mA9 Xen* Cnnaan, Conn. 
KoK Kiley, now judge of the Appellate court in Chicago, comes to Notre Dame on his own time once a month to lead discussion groups of law students. 
Ga» Desch, ::lso of Chicago, now conducts a weekly adult discussion group along the lines of those groups inspired and led by Chancellor Hutchlns and Dr. Adler of the University of Chicago. 
John W. Nicmiec, South Bend, for almost a quarter of a century a practicing attorney, has formed a law partnership with George M. Eichler, *40, recently returned veteran of the Pacific war. 
In May. Tom Lleb was named assistant foot­ball coach at the University of Alabama, to aid his former Notre Dame teammate, head coach Frank Thomas. 
1924 mont, N. Y. 
Col. Bob Riordan is recovering in Vaughan General Hospital, Hines, III., from a long siege of peripheral neuritis. When he is discharged from the hospital. Bob will join his family at Ludington, Mich., before returning to the Uni­versity to resume his teaching- duties. 
JOHN P. HI«I.KV, tM5 BrookdMle 1925 Rd.. TBiedo, O. 
From John Hnrley; It has been a long time since this Secretary has sent anything to the *25 column. I was: told there would be a replacement two years ago while I was in the Bed Cross, but Tm still getting notices to meet the "deadline" of the 'Aliimnus.' 
I've seen some of the fellows, and talked to a few others recently as I've been on the mare 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
buying furniture in the iliddle "West and 
Eastern marliets for the past two months. 
I talked to Al Xacht^KnU In Grand Rapids in April. Al is fine. He has a grand family, and his company is back in the groove again, making special cabinet work for tlie better shops and hotels. His plant tied in with the rest of the Grand Rapids plants In extensive war work. 
I'm not going to attempt to mention the number of clilldren In this "quickie" as this covers a report since I came out of the Red Cross last fall, and I haven't always remem­bered the ages, sex or number. 
Paol Kotnwcber has two hoys. I recall this because I met them, and spent a delightful night and day in BatcsviUe a few weeks ago. Paul's wife, Connie, is a grand hostess. Saw John Hillenbrand, and got kind of a shock to think he has a boy in blgli school. John looks the same and still has that million dollar smile. 
I shouldn't have been shocked at John's boy going to high school. Paul Komn-eber has one ready to go. and Ray Tillman, in Toledo, has a daughter who has already finished high school at St. Mary's. Ray got a head start though, getting married the day after we graduated way back in June, 1925. Ray has five children; the youngest isn't walking yet- He's with his brother Joe Tillman, '21, in the Unitcast Corp. litre In Toledo. 
While in Chicago a month ago, I talked to Jack Scallan. He's still with the Pullman-Standard, and he's really going to the top with that company. I've since heard that Jack was in the hospital, I hope not for long. "While in that same town, I ran into "Honest John" Sweenej-, '26. at an early weekday Mass. John is taking- care of the "Peanut Front," along with his classmate. Geoi^e Harfnett. They are in the same outfit. 
Saw Ifonk Warier last fall after the North­western game. He really doesn't change. Talked with >Iark 3fooney, '2G, on the phone yesterday. Mark Is in Syracuse, X. Y., with the Carrier Company. They are the big boys in commercial refrigeration. I thought I might uncover some appliances for the new depart­ment ol Hurley Furniture. 

"While in New York visiting a brother-in-. law. Dr. Dan B. Kirby. I attended a Mother's Day Communion Breakfast at Pelham and Jimmie Crowley was on the program. Jim looks great since his Xa\-y experience. 
The Thursday before this. I had a pleasant visit with Disliop John F. O'Hnm. I was in Buffalo between trains from Jamestown to Xew York City, it seemed like good old days in Sorin Hall. As busj- as he is. it seems the "Sorin Bell" is still available for any of Our Lady's boys who need advice. 
The Toledo Notre Dame Club had a post­war reorganization, and there were quite a few '25ers there. Father G»o(lall» C.S.C., a former citizen of Toledo, came over from Notre Dame, and he inspired the boys to really "get going" as a club. 
Ben KeMtinic, Fuul Do<iley, and myself were elected for the board of governers, so the class of '2.'i is well represented, Frank Murray and Carl Scbaeffcr are in Toledo, and both look swell. Prank is superintendent of the Toledo Cartage Co., and Carl is with the patent attorney firm of Owen & Owen. 
By mere chance, I ran into Ray C. Pauli on a train going to Washington during the war. Ray was in the Army, and he said his old pal, Don Ai^ner. was also a GI. Ray's home is still Pontlac, Mich. 
Received letters from Paul IffoefTIer, and Bill Hurley a long time ago. Both are insurance men. Paul is in Providence, R. I., and Bill is writing policies In his old home town of Sagi­naw. 
Bay Cunningiliain, as has already been men­tioned in the '25 column, is back with Moffett Studio after his discharge from the Navy as a lieutenant commander. lUther John Lynch, C.S-C, spent some time with us at "20S5" last fall, and we really enjoyed his visits. Father is covering the Middle West, speaking on voca­tions, and he really is doing a splendid job. 

This letter covers enough '25ers for another five years, but I hope to see you all at the June Commencement where we really can get caught up on some "lost week ends," that period of the war and before where we really lost track of our classmates. 
Listen, boys, how about answering that letter from Jim .-^rmstronjc* and send that check back today with a few dollars or few hundred for the great needs of Notre Dame. Don't wait too late to get on that "preferred" alumni list for tickets. Mall a check today, and put the class "2a right on top where it should be. 
Bill Cerney, former assistant football coach at the University, who recently has been repre­senting Huntington Laboratories on the west coast, stopped in South Bond, for a brief visit with his family recently. Bill was transferred by his company to be its east coast representa­tive. 
B<ib Uotvland has moved to Norfolk, Va., as advertising manager of the Seaboard Air­line Railway. For years he was In St. Louis as advertising manager of the Missouri Pacific Lines. 
I Q9 A VICTOR F. I^EBIMER, Box 661, Iron­
• y^O ivtKHl, .Mich. 

Chuck Guinon, Grand Rapids, Mich-, who is believed to be the Notre Dame man who spent the longest time In ser\ice in World War II, visited the campus in April. 
Chuck enlisted in the Canadian army shortly after the war started and served six years and two months In the air corps, infantry and tank corps. He was wounded three times, but two days was the longest he ever had to be away from his outfit because of injuries. Too old to fly when he joined the army, he trans­ferred to the Infantry, but long chores of stand­ing guard at Buckingham palace with the Grenadier guards made this distasteful and he transferred to the tank corps. He served through campaigns in North Africa, Sicily. Italy, France. Belgium, Holland, Germany and Czechoslovakia. 
Charles H. Guinon« '26, left re­turned hero of the Canadian Army* with WiUiam B. Pooley* '26, assistant alumni secretcn^. (See '26 news) 

Climax: Chuck had both mumps and measles as soon as he got back to Grand Rapids. 
Bert Dunne, whose book, "Play Ball, Son," illustrates the techniques of teaching base­ball, was featured in the April 22 issue of "Life" magazine. 
Jay Slasenich, before- the war advertising manager for the South Bend Lathe Works, has joined the executive staff ot the American Monument association Boston, as director of public relations. During the war Jay played an active part In the expansion of many of the country's largest aircraft factories. He was released as lieutenant commander. 
m 09 « JOSEPH BI. BOLAND, Radio Station mwiCi WSBT, Sonth Bend, Ind. 
Ewn c •*ScrBpiron" Voans* who resigned as head athletic trainer at -Notre Dame In 1944 has been signed as jockey trainer for the spring race meeting at Sportsman's Park south of Chicago. During the football season. Scrap will train the players of the Chicago Rockets, of the All-America Football Conference-
Clarence J. Ruddy, prominent Aurora, 111. attorney and former assistant attorney general. Is extremely active in Moose circles, being a Moosohart governor and former president of the Illinois State Moose Assoclation-
LOVIS F. BUCKtEY, «17 Uncolnw«y 1928 West, Mishawaica, Ind. 
From I-«ii Buckley: I reported here in Cleveland as associate regional representative of the Social Security Board on April 29. I would probably like Cleveland if I could find a place to live. I saw a number of '28 men at the Cleveland Universal Notre Dame Night meeting. They included Tom' Byrne. Pierce O'Connor, Joe Breir and John McLaof^hlin. l understand I»r* John Victor^-n Is back in town and out of the service. Vince Carney wrote from Rochelle, 111., ex­pressing the hope that some of the gang would be back for Commencement. Vlnce said he would like ver>* much to see Bill Jones. Art Gleason, John Herbert and Charlie Totten there in June. 
Lt. Comdr. Tom Mahnn, DSXR, wrote from Coral Gables. Pla.. to say that he was remain­ing in the ser\-ico till June 1, In order to help out In the insurance program-
Capt, Bob Foserty is now chief of the historical division at headquarters of the Con­tinental Air Forces, stationed at Boiling Field. Washington, D. C. 
Bill Jones, also of Washington, D. C, stopped on the campus on April 24 on his way to the west coast for six weeks. 
Chaplain {Major) Robert W- Woodward, C.S.C., assistant professor of philosophy on leave of absence from Notre Dame, has been awarded the army commendation ribbon for outstanding work in the army chaplain's corps. Father Woodward, who entered the army in 1941. expects to be discharged soon. 
1929 MAJOR JOSEPH P. McNAtf AKA, 1314 
X. Coart Hoase Rd.» Arlinston, Fa. 
Major Bob Trotter Is (was) chief of Opera­tions for the western base section of the army Engineering Corps In prance. According to Jack Mnllen. '2S. from whom the news comes, the Western Base Section Incudes practically all of the west of France. Bob hoped to re­turn to the states in June or July. 
Ber. <Capt.> Joseph D. Barrj-, CS.C, has been transferred as a chaplain from the 2nd Infantry Division at Camp Swift, Texas to Hq. 38th R.C.T., Camp Carson, Colo. 
m 09f | HAROIA E. DUKE, 4880 N. Broad • *a U St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Art Denneby, assistant manager of the chemi­car department of Johaneson, Wales & Sparre. Inc., of New Tork. has been elected recently to the Chemist's Club of New Tork. 
Heniy Mason Is one of the two operators of the Abstract & Title Co., Benton Harbor. Mich., and Is secretarj- of the ^Uchigan Title Asso­ciation. 
Joe Butler is the new vice president of the Chicago St3ck Exchange. Joe has been with Hornblower and Weeks, in Cleveland, and later with Lawrence Cook & Co. Investment dealers in the same city. He was with the Securities and G::clmnge Commission. Chicago division, just before taking over his new post. 

Volume 24, No. 3, June, 1946 
 SAI7KDERS.S3 Frait ft Fio­

1931 JOHN F. 
dace Exclmnrc* Boston 9, Mass. 

Tom Golden is out of the Navy and back at Notre Dame doing- graduate work in Eduna­tion. Tom was in the Navy for five years, was at Pearl Harbor on Doc. 7. 1941, and served on the XJ.S.S. Phoenix through 25 en­gagements in the Pacific. 
Rev. Patrick R. Duffy. C.S.C., recently re­leased from the Navy as lieutenant commander after extensive ser\*ice in the South Pacific, has gone to Wilkes Barre to assist in the organization of the new King*s College. 
Ilarold Stelcer. after 40 months in the Army, was released last October and has returned to his position as buyer of electric tools for Sears, Roebuck in Chicago. Harold was married in April 1942, and the Stelzer's now have a daughter, aged 2S months. He has seen Cliff Usher several times since Cliff's discharge as a captain in the Engineers. 
The housing sliortage forced the resignation of Larry (Moon) 3Iullins as head coach of foot­ball at Santa Clara University. Moon had sought housing for his wife and six children for five months with no success. 
Lt. Alfred E. Gall has been awarded the Army Commendation Ribbon for service witli the Office of the Chief. Chemical "Warfare Serv­ice, in Baltimore. He is the historical editor, writing monographs on the various actii'ities of the ser\ice. 
I QO^ ^'^' Cmdr. JAMES K. COIX1NS. 1135 
• '^<fc .Manchester Ave.. Norfolk, Ta, 
From Jim Collin^: 
'B<»b Lee writes from Honolulu that he has his family with him now and Is really enjoj-­ing the duty there. He had 30 days leave at Christmas to go to Chicago for his family. He is a lieutenant commander in the Navy, and is security officer for the Naval Supply Center. 
Bob says that the last Notre Dame man he saw was Ttnn McKeyitt, who left there in February, and lie is anxious to see anyone else who should get out that way. 
Bart 0*llani is assistant U. S. attorney for the District of Colorado in Denver, and has held this post for the past four years. He is also carrying on his private practice. He Is married and has three children. 
Bart says that he sees John Humphries regularly since he returned from two years duty as a lieutenant in the Navy. John is also married and has three children; he Is with the Travelers' Insurance company in Denver. Bart says that Tex Simmons with his wife and three children vacation In Denver each year, and it is alwnys a cause for a small reunion. They are all looking forward to the 15-year reunion next year. 
Frank Penny is advertising and sales mana­ger for the Fairfax Bread division of Safeway Stores In San Francisco, and has been doing this work for about two years. 
He writes that T«im Duffy is still with the 
S. E. Purdy Co., dealers in railroad eciuipment and scrap metals, in San Francisco. Tom Meaile. who was resident attorney for the Kaiser Shipyard at Vancouver. "Washington during the war, has opened an ofilce In that city and Is now in private practice. 
Harry Moss is administrative executive with the National Association of Leather Glove manufacturers at GloversvlUe. N. T. He repre­sented the American Tariff League on the tlnion Collcffe Empire State Town Meeting^ of the Air on March 10. 
Bob Gorman is advertising manager of the Zellerbach Paper Co., San Francisco. 
Joe Blaney is working for the Republic Steel Corporation, export department, with otfices in the Chrysler Building in New York. 
Heniy Paradis is employed as area rent attorney with the Ofilce of Price Administra­tion, Saginaw. Mich. 
1099 TIGHE WOODS, 8016 Clyde ATC. I '^ ^ Chlraco, III. 
From Frank Donnlty: 
"My time as a lieutenant in the Xavy was spent at Pearl, where I had the good fortune of rooming with the '32 Bob Lee from Chicago. Also had the good luck of meeting a good many fellows whom I hadn't seen since leaving school. I recall pleasant times with John Litclier. John Connolly, Paul Daly, Charile Hitzelberirer, FTOiik Leahy, Doc Dan Shsosh­nessy, and many others. I was discharged at New York and Gene Connelly helped me get to the station where we met Ed Rhatiiran who had just returned from Europe and service as Herbert Lehman's assistant. I am back run­ning the restaurant now and helping with the care of our three children." 
Jack Hoyt is now associated with the law firm of Gillespie and O'Connor. New York City, attorneys for the archdiocese of New York. 
Bob Johnston is back in charge of his con­sulting-research laboratories in Hnrrlsburg. Pa.. after three years in the army. He spent half of that time in Prance and Germany as chief of laboratorj* service with the 174th General Hospital. 
Pete Connelly has been relieved of activ*e duty with the army where he served In the AVar Department Office of Dependency Benefits. He will resume the practice of law in R9che3­ter. N. Y. 
Dr. Dave Plotkin has returned to his dental practice in South Bend after four and a half years in the army. 
Fre<l Baer, South Bend attorney. Is now in Ludwigsburg. Germany, as civilian attorney with the war crimes branch of the American forces there. 
1934 JOSEPH K. GLENNON. Jr., Vom­mercinl Solvents Corp., 17 E. 42nd ISt.. New York City, 17. 
From Joe Glenron: 
Notice was received recently that Lt. Comdr. Dan J. Brick, USNR. is returning to his law-practice in New York City. T also had word that Lt, T^n-rence Gn»Ss Is opening a law office in Pleasantville. N. Y. 
"While In Norwalk. Conn., recently. I "Was unsuccessful In my attempt to see Bob and Jack Devine, but learned that Bob is once again practicing law and that Jack Is assist­ing him. 
George O'Brien has opened an insurance office in his home town of Danbury, Conn. 
The annual Alumni Fund has entered Us fourth year. Approximately 27% of our class contributed last year, ranking us ISth. For this year let our goal be No. 1, with 100% participation. Start the ball rolling by send­ing your contribution early. 
Victor Astone, South Bend, chief adult pro­bation oificor of St. Joseph county since June S, 1942. resigned in May to become a salesman for the TJ. S. Rubber Co. He was succeeded by Loren Hess, *33, just returned as a captain from army service. Loren held the job when he entered the army. 
L*iu Jackson, South Bend attorney recently discharged from the Navy as a lieutenant, has resumed his law practice In partnership with Russell C. Kuehl. Lou served 44 months with naval intellli^ence and with the naval legal staff at Norfolk, "Va. 
Ji»hn Ruppel is the divisional merchandise manager for the J. L. Hudson Co, in Detroit. 
John Wallace, formerly of South Bend. Is now with Studebaker Pacific Corp. In San Fran­cisco. 
1935 FBANKLTN G. HOCHRBITER, 211N Trensnre St., N*w Orleans. Iji. 
Charlie Sullivnn is a teacher and coach at Austin High School in Chicago. 
Antliunj* Kuhorich, of South Bend. Is now a welfare ofilcer on the UNRRA team working in the Passeau. Germany, displaced persons' camp. His particular care Is the restoring of lost children to their families. 
WINS PYLE'AWARD 

Jolm D. Dowlinff, ex. '35, a Clii­c«so "Snn'* forvifM coiTttspoiidl­enty has b«ttn awardad tha Emia Pyla Mamorial Award for War Correspondsnca by SIfnra Delta Clii, professional journalistic fra­ternity. He was commended by tbe judges as "a Yivid writer of ex­traordinary ability/' and earned the award for outstanding war re­porting in 1945. He is the son of Eddie Dowlingt stage star and the­atrical producer. 
u 09 X 'OSKFH r. MANSFIELD, Kstlonal 
Plas% KIHUO Gltr/Kew Tork, K. T. 

From Joe Mansfield: The plans for the 10-year reunion are slowly but surely taking form. A number of the men have signified their intention of retuminff to the campus June 28, 29, and 30;'others are not yet able to say whether or not they will he able to return. Will pass along a few of the letters we have received to this writing. 
Joe McGrath of Sterling Retailers. Inc., Seattle, Wash., writes.that he expects to make the trip in June. Joe was at the five year reunion and says, "I wouldn't miss this one if I had to walk all the way there on foot.'* He continues; "Would you mind mentioninc 
• in the next issue that I would like to hear from rani Robly, Bob Betnanl, and other members cf the *36 track team. Joe goes on to say that he ran into IHck Osmp who was a freshman with us. 
Joe SaUivan, now with United Airlines, Detroit City Airport, says. '*l plan to attend the 1936 Class Reunion at Notre Dame on. June 2S, 29, and 30. Unless some unforeseen circumstance arises I should be there. 
"We h!id a sizeable turnout for the local Notre Dame club banquet last Monday night and many of the boys from our class were there including Bert Brnmr, Art Cronin, fVed Carideo, and several others. Jim Sh«Ty is here with General Motors Corporation. 
"A couple of weeks ago I had dinner In Chicago with Gene ToMn who has his own ac­counting firm there now- Also made the rounds of the local night spots In Chicago with BQI Higgins who was discharged from the Army last December and is planning to go Into business for himself in partnership with a friend. A\ Robol is bade with his Insurance company and was unable to have dinner with Tobin and myself because of business appoint­ments. 
"I have been here sfnce Jan. IG and am assistant manager at the field for. United Air X.ines, Inc. I returned to the company on Jan. 8 after 44 months' active duty with the Naval Air Transport Service Command in the ' United States and overseas. I made lieutenant commander a year ago.*' 
Sam Perry, writes that he'll be returning 
.for the reunion. He says, "It should be a great time and I hope 'most of the boys can make it. I have been here in Detroit with ­General Motors since my release from the 8er\-ice last October"" and see some of the '36 boys once-in-a-while: B« t Baoer, AH Cron­in and Jo« SnlHTan." 
I had a long telephone conversation with Joe Waldron, who is with National Association Transportation Advertising. Inc., 30 Rocke-• felle.r Plaza, here in New York. Incidentally. Joe fears that pressure of business will prevent his getting back for the reunion. That's the case, also, with Jlai Kirhy, ex- of the FBI. who is in the process of taking over a new and responsible position as tax expert with a New York firm. 
The Notre Damie Alumnus 
Bill Walsh of the Vonker Walsh's is plan­ning to be married early in June. He'd like to include the reunion in his honeymoon plans but is not sure whether or not he will be able to make it. 
Saw Andy Ilufnaicel at the Universal Xotre Dame Night festivities at the Biltmore. Andy is with the Veterans Administration and has a yen to write radio scripts as a sideline. 
Joe P«rter has left ^[utual to take over as ace salesman for station "WOV, one of New York City's most enterprizing stations. 
Turn Keenan^ fresh from the Xavy. droi>ped in to sec us a few weeks back. He regaled us with stories of his interesting experiences in the ETO and reports his planning to continue his law studies. 
We were hoping that John Munin would be able to get to Xotre Dame in June, but it seems that Iiis new business venture, in which he and Bud Goldman have teamed up, will prevent his attending. 
Julius P. Hftcca will be one of those return­ing, according to a card just received. 
Ilarrj- Becker, formerly of Louisville, is now working for the U. S. Rubber Co. in Misha­waka. 
I>»ri Klser has resumed his job as head coacli of the Horace ilann Higli School in his native Gary, Ind., after his recent discharge from the Navy as a lieutenant. 
Paul Ljirnier is the uew publicity director for tlie All-American Girl's Professional Soft­ball league, with headquarters in Chicago. 
Morris Cooper, for tlie past seven years manager of the Meyer drug store in Jlishawaka. has bought the SchifTer drug store on East Jefferson St., in South BentJ. 
John (jtleu.'on lias been elected president of the newly organized American Legion post of the First National Bank of Chicago. John rose from private to major in the war and ser\-ed with the 33rd division in the PaciHc theater. 
Ted IVekonitz. South Bend attorney, has resumed his law practice after more than three years vitli the army in the Judge Advocate General's department. 
Dule Ltivell Is general superintendent of the foam rubber division of the U. S. Rubber Co. at its plant in ilishawaka, 
i 
l-'KANK J. ICKILX.Y, MucA'air-Uor­1937 huid C». Hat W. 31»t St., New York City. 
From Frank Reilly: The voice at the other end of the teleplione sounded vaguely familiar. It seemed to be­long to Justin 3IcCann, '37. now ex-N.ivy lieu­tenant and more recently a Bermuda so­journer. But no. the voice that plied me witli <Iuestions belonged to someone else- Who was it? None otiier than John Newton (we knew him as *'Zek*»"). Cackley of *37 and one of the late "Doe" Cjoney's proudest boasts. Now perhaps you re all wondering how anyone could miss spotting :hc Ronceverte, W. Va.. drawl, so characfristically Jack's. ^Vell. to tell the truth, our Mr. Cackley is a citizen of the world and not so easy to put the finger on as he once was. As you saw by the April 
•Alumnus'
 John is: a.) married, and b.) out of the army. Unquestionably the two highest peaks in any man's career. I was about to elaborate on John's whereabouts for tliat same issue of the 'Alumnus' mentioned above wlien I ran into a liurry of work at the otiice that prevented me from doing my bit for the "Alum­nus.' My information about John was a piece in the New York "Times" that told about his engagement and marriage, and also his status as a vice consul at Marseilles. 

•\Vell,
 to get back to the phone call, John was in New York and would have- lunch with me. Tills was "Wednesday. May S, and John had just arrived back in the States the previous Saturday. John's wife, incidentally, was at­tached to the American Consulate at Marseilles 


and they were married in the private chapel of the bishop of Marseilles, not at the Con­sulate as mentioned in tlie "Times" storj'. First, however, they were married by the mayor at the city hall in Marseilles, which is the law of the land. 
John had been in the Army for about three years. I think he said. Before that he worked in and around southern Ohio for GMAC, the car financing end of General Motors. Later he was with du Pont for a spell and then into the army. Jolm liad seen a few Notre D.ime men in service, none from our class, but others such as John Hinkel and a brother of L;irr>- Doyle, '39. .Tohn saw ser\*ice in Africa. Italy and Prance. He said that he hadn't decided what he was going to do when I saw him. but that he first planned a trip home, the first in four years, and then he was to come back up to this part of the countrj-. He's filled out since I last saw him nine years ago, but other than that is much the same old "Zeke." 
Jim 3IC1IURII of our distinguished outfit hav­ing finally extricated himself from the toils of the army is reported to have been seen back in New York with his North Carolina bride. Jim was in for about three years, and spent all of his time in this country. He and Kitty Gorman were in tlie same camp in North Carolina, I believe it was. Anyhow. Jim is living in Ne»v York City, working for the the­atrical trade publication. "Billboard." and wait­ing for his home in Peekskill, N. Y., to be completed. I s:iw Jim a couple of times about four yoars ago when he was doing publicity for the Ilamid entertainment enterprises. I'll see if I can't get Jim for lunch one of these days and get a first hand account of our erst­while Fitchbuig. Mass.. boy and ex-athletic manager. 
Some time ago the name Chuck Itos^jeenstein came up in this column, and I now find that Captain Roggenstein, AUS. was awarded the Bronze Star medal for braverj* in action: Chuck started out as a lieutenant in a mortar company and while in the same made things rather warm for the "Krauts." ilessed up one of their tanks a bit in France, and for that received the award. Talking to "Cliuck" on the phone some time ago I learned he was doing public relations, on a strictly civilian basis, of course. 
My agents report liaving seen Alvin G«»nre Gloudeinans of .Appleton, Wis., in New York earlier this spring- Al was getting ready to shed his "bell bottom" and pea jacket sliortly thereafter. I understand, to return to work in the family department store in Appleton. Al is said to make New York occasionally on buy­ing trips, so we're looking forward to hearing from him on the next one- How about it. Al? 

.\nother visitor to the ofiice was Ben Seherer of Mamaroneck. N. Y., who was fairly fresh out of the army at the time he dropped by for a visit. Ben is married and makes his home in I'ortChester. N. Y. .\ltliough it has been some time since he was in, his call was never chronicled here before so it's still news, although perhaps not to Ben and me. Ben was with the N. Y. "Daily News" from the time he left scliool until the time of his In­duction, early in the war. or shortly before our participation. When you mention Ben Scherer. tliere are two other *37'ers you auto­matically think of: Art Shau^hnei^sy and Herb Kenyon, both of these parts hereabouts. Art, Ben told me. received his discharge from the navy Feb. 6 (this is real contemporary), wliile at Bremerton, Wash. He spent the night with his uncle. Bishop Gerald F. SIiaughness>-, and then rtew back to see the wife and family in Atlanta. Our information ends there, so per-. haps Art will be good enough to bring us up to date. Herb Kenyon is back living In Yonkers, according to John Balfe's guest book. 
Father Crotuin F. Kelly, O.F.M.. '.17. phoned recently following a six weeks* trip to Mexico to say that he had seen another of our class­mates, Ilarr?' Baldwin of Chicago and his wife at Acapulco, Mex., where the Baldwins were \-acaiioning. Harrj' had completed his service witli the na\->- shortly before that and was grabbing a bit of rest before going back to the business grind in Chicago. 
A rather lengthy phone call to Westfield, 
N. J., put me wise to the fact that Srt. Jack Gflle^ie was sweating it out somewhere in Cairo. Egypt, where he was running an army newspaper. Jack's mother told me that he was expected home late in April- He's another one that can fill in the "between then and now" gap if he'll only take the trouble to write or phone. Before going into the army Jack edited a weekly newspaper in Westfield. Originally, he started with the weekly, switched over to a nearby daily, and then went back to the weekly, where he decided he was hap­pier. He has been overseas since October, 1944. Jack Is married and has a four year old son, Bruce John. Jack's older brother. Howard, '34. was released from service earlier In the year after having served as a naval otficor In China, where he was in communications. 
Bill Fnlinn and Mark T^nerxran had me as their guest at lunch over at the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.. here. In Februarj'. I be­lieve it was. Both boys were with the "Met" at the time, but since then. Bill, who earlier was decommissioned by the army with the rank of captain, joined .American Airlines. in a public relations and personnel supervisory capacity. Wiiile New York will be his head­quarters. Bill was to travel about the countrj' looking over .\A'.s other branches. 
Wonder how many of you realize that one of our classmates. Capt. Bill Shea of the army, recently ran on the Republican ticket for Con­gress here in New Tork City against strongly leftish Johannes Steel, the American Labor Party candidate and notorious radio commenta­tor, and a Democrat whose name I can't re­call at the moment. Bill deserves a pat on the back, not because he was victorious but because he was in there doing his duty as a citizen in most exemplarj- fashion. Candidate Steel lost too. fortunately, hut not through the fault of the highly organized Communist minor­ity in the district who were pressuring door­I)ells on behalf of tlie PAC-CIO candidate. In Bill's case there was an extenuating circum­stance which I think it fair to mention- He was hack in this country only a short time before the election which, of course, precluded the possibility of any extended campaigning and preparation. 
Tlie mail since the last piece brought the following fine letter from Jack Ullman in Detroit. Jack writes: "Just nnished the Feb­ruary 'Alumnus' and note that you arc having a bit of difficulty gatheriui.; news. I certainly haven't much to report bat you may get a few lines for the next issue. 
"The forepart of Decemter while in Wash­ington I had lunch with l>ee MtKirnian, who has been with the legal staff of tlie Internal Revenue Department ever since he left school. Lee is married to Liz Wliite. formerly of Oshkosh. Wis., and St. Clary's of Notre Dame. We had a hurried lunch because I had a train to catch, so we didn't get much time to gab-Lee has not seen many of the Xotre Dame boys either. 
"From Washington I went to Philadelphia and then New York for about four hours. Called Charlry KojCKm^trin but missed him. His mother told me, however, that he was on terminal leave from the army at the time, but that he seriously tliought about re-enlisting. 
"Couldn't get direct connections from N. Y, to Detroit so ended up in Cleveland. Called Fkmnk McCarthy there, but his sister informed me that he was still somewhere in the Pacific. Frank stayed at Notre Dame for (a few) years after-we got out. and then took his navy train­ing there too. Also talked to Jim Dubln. Jim was released from the army and had just started a new job witli some lumber company. 
"I do see some of the Detroit boys quite regularly. Hank Rucn has an otfice near our plant and we have lunch together a few times each week. Hank is the pappy of three fine boys- Art Cronin Is the Detroit tycoon of the coal business and verj- active in all local Notre Dame endeavors. His son, Denny, is registered at Notre Dame for some time about 1964. and we have high hopes that he'll make as good a tackle as Ills dad. 

Volume 24, No. 3. June, 1946 
"GOT HaHtiitKt*. wlio spent just one year with us at school, is one of the jolliest undertalcers in Detroit. I was best man when he was married about a year ago. He was in my wedding party when I was married some six years ago. 
"A Christmas card from my old roommate. Sieve Tlnan of Crawfordsville. Ind.. informed me that he was released from the army shortly before Christmas. Steve spent many a long month in Europe, and it has been years since I last saw liim. 
"Pinky Camiirs brother. Tom, called on me last week. Tom Is in the ink business with tl»e rest of tlie family, but is living in Chicago. 
•\Vo had a nice visit, and lie gave me the same information about Pinky that you had already published in the February issue. 
"As for me, I am still holding down my usual haunts in our fair town of strikes and riots. Have a four-year old son that is giving me quite a time. My wife died over two years ago. and I find that trying to raise a lively boy is really something. Hope to Iiave him at South Bend in about 14 years." 
Another pleasant piece of mail that came in a week or so ago contained the news of the coming ordination of another of our classmates. Father Robert John Lochner, C.S.C., at Sacred Heart Church, Xotre Dame, June 24. Most Kev. 
•Inhn Francis Noll/bishop of Fort ^Vayne, will otiiciate. Bob will say his -first solemn Mass in Clevelard, his home town, at St. Rose's Church, at 10:30 a.m., Sunday, June 30. A reception will be given that same evening in the Empire room of the Hotel Cleveland, from seven to nine o'clock. I know I speak for the class when I offer Bob congratulations and best wishes, and iirayers for a successful priest­hood. ' 
Another r«,'cent announcement concerns the appointment of Jerrj- Gillespie, fomer naval lieutenant, to vice-presidency of the John T. Bolfe (*20) insurance company. Xew York. Jerry, who is a member of the board of gover­nors of the Xew York alumni group, directed naval Insunmce activities in Xew York. He will make his headquarters with the Balfe company at 60 E. 42nd Street. Xew York. 
Following a luncheon meeting of £d ]Iui<»kinK, rinky Carrnil and myself, we decided to Iiold informal Tuesday luncheons at the Hotel Wood­stock in Xew Y'ork. The idea has succeeded in bringing togctlier quite a few Xotre Dame men. both of our class and others. In addition to Pinky and Ed Hulsking and Ed's brother Dick, such Illustrious stalwarts as Fathers KiiKlish, Kelly and Kgan (O.F.M. and '34). Jack and IHck Baker, Ilill Tunney, Lt. "Bouts" McCarthy, Viiice llurtnett, Jerry Gillespie, my brother Bill, '34, and Beriiie Garber, '2S. Joe Callahan, *39. Joe Waldron, Bill Sharp, Bob Wilkie. Will Kirk, Tom IIuRhes. Jim 3IacDev­itt. '3C. Jordan Ilarj^^rove among others, have been on hand. So if any of you lads get to X'ow York and are free some Tuesday noon drop into the Woodstock. 43rd St., just east of Broadway, and join tiie gang. 
Vinee llartnett, about whom many of you are probably wondering. Is now out of the navy and back at his writing chores. Vinee. Tom Hushes and myself had a very pleasant week-end to­gether while on a retreat back in ilarch. Vinee now lives in Peiham, but as I understand it, will move to a new place in Scarsdale before too very long. 
I've seen a good bit. though not enough, of course, of Ed llnyt, who is now back in civvies and credit manager for Best & Co., Xew York. Ed lives in Parkcliester and is a neiglibor of mine, Tom IIuKlies, Mark Lonerican and num­erous other Xotre Dame men. The Hoyts, the Hughes and the ReiUys have liad several en­joyable evenings visiting each other's homes, a pleasant custom that we hope continues. 
After three and a half years of army serv­ice, Capt, Ed Fischer has joined the faculty of St. Joseph's college, Renssalaer, Ind., as a member of the department of journalism and director of public relations. 
Cupt. Tony Boj'ot left Manila five years ago on a business trip. Since then he has partici­pated in three campaigns in the Mediterranean Theater, attended Military Government School at the University of Virginia and is presently stationed In Korea. 
Vinee McCoola has just been discharged after four and one half years with the Army Air Forces, and is completing his work toward an M.A. at Bucknell University. 
Bill Fitzpatrick, Troy. X. Y., is recently dis­charged as an AAF captain after nearly five years service. Bill acted as the senior con­troller of all radar controlled aircraft during tile Xormandy invasion and was active in setting up tlie air defense of Paris. 
A letter (May 12) from CHIT Brown didn't say where he was. but did Include an exultant, "will leave for the States In a couple of days." 
HAIIOLD A. WIIXIAMS, 4323 Mar­1938 ble Halt Rd., Baltimore, Md. 
From Hal Willhims: Tliree letters—two from the same classmate —and a few notes jotted on the back of a match folder furnish the only grist for the '3S mill which seems to grind slower every month. 
First, a letter from Charlie Callahan, now assistant director of publicity at school. 
Ciiarlie writes: "Just sticking to the last few weeks—Don lliekey is still running Don's Fiesta In the Bend and the place Is crowded every night. Jack Moulder Is out of the ser\-ice and back in the automobile business. Chuck Sweeney was at football practice recently. He's living In Pontiac, Midi. He's still in the oil business and will olliciate in the national football league again this year. He told me that Ed Hogun, from Binghamton, was either about to get married or just recently took the step. I expect to visit Georjce Sauter in India­napolis this weekend or next." 
Tlien came two letters from Ed Bartnett. He writes. "Got home on a Navy transport and was discharged Dec. 12. 1945. I rested about six weeks and tlien back to the Xew York "nmes.* I'm in the Motion Picture Department, doing trade news and writing reviews under the Initials E. J. B. 
"Ran into Jack Seott at a nearby saloon. He's just out of the Marines and is working in Xew Y'ork. Tliat's all the Xotre Dame news I can muster. . . ." 
On .\pril 24 I bumped into E4ldie Mattinxly and his bride, tlie former Marj- Therese Xeely, of Cumberland. Md. They had been married the day previous at St. Peter and Paul's Cath­olic Churcii in Cumberland and were on their Avay to Xew York for a wedding trip. Eddie, who was discharged from the army as a first lieutenant on Sei)t. 23, is working for his father at J. I. Mattingly & Brother In Cumberland. 
•Also saw Charlie Brosius on the street recent­ly. He's just out of the army and back at Haskins & Sells. He sold his home here when he joined the service so he commutes between here and Frederick. 
Several weeks ago Jim -Murray telephoned nie. He said that he was back at work (I've misplaced my notes but I believe I'm right) with the Bethlehem Steel Company. He also reports that Dan Sullivan is living in Baltimore at the Pentrldge Apartments, Loch Raven Blvd. 
That's all. I know that you fellows would like to read more about the boys, so how about a few letters. 
From Swede Bauer: Received a couple of letters quite a while back which I mislaid but which contain a lot of news about the past activities of some of the fellows of our class, so here they are. 
First letter was from Charlie Kelley, of the Chemistr>- Kelleys and Sorin Hall. Says he: "After leaving Xotre Dame in 1938, I worked in a sugar plant In Michigan for two years l>efore coming back to Xotre Dame for a Master's degree in Chemistry. Thence to Dn Pont here in Wlltnlngton. Run a control and development lab. for a variety of chemicals. I was married in December, 1942, and have a two-year old daughter. My wife has never seen Xotre Dame and a visit there is our cherished project for one of these years. As you know Wilmington has a large population of Xotre Dame grads. mostly in chemistry. Carl Irwin who shared Xo. 1 Sorin with me is here with a fine family of two boys and a girl. Gconce SdUandeckcr was here until a year ago—now Is in Louisville, Ky., with his own family. Other men of Xotre Dame whom I see every day are John Verlmne, Art Banm, Bill Xarray, Tom Decnan, Bill Glenn, Feu FVoninr* Bob Thomas, Walt Condes and others. We have an alumni organization that is fairly active; we referee basketball games for the local parochial leagues. . . . 
"About a year ago Redman BnsKiui dropped in with wife and son on his way to South Africa as a diplomatic representative. . . . Fete Sandrock, who has been In the construc­tion business, in the Xavy, is married,—and helped my wife bake a pie when he was here. Pete owes me a letter, by the way. I last heard from him in Manila. Francis OXon­nell, *41, who owes me numerous letters, has been here. -. Is Art Phillips still at Xotre Dame? Last I heard of Bill Piedmont was in 1943 when he was CYO director up in Sault Ste. Marie, Mich. "Where is my old roomy, John Cavalier? .. . and Adolph Weis wlio went down to Bartlesville, Okla., and then dropped out of sight? . . . and Tommy Maher? . . . and my old home towner of Bay City. Mich., Frank Kirchman? I hope that any of the fellows who come to Wilmington will call and come out to see us. Phone Hollyook 5039. address 711 Falrview Ave., Belleforte, Wilming­ton, Del." 
From Johnny Head. 542 S. Center St. Plain­field, Ind.. came an inQuir>' as to Don Usher's whereabouts. (Don's Insuranclng in South Bend and doing well). John also said he read that Frank Conrad was operated on recently In Indianapolis for appendicitis and that Frank coaches at Vlncenhes high school. Said John: "I was released from the army Jan. 16 and returned to Plalnfield to my wife and dahgbter. My vital statistics are that I was married April 24, 1943 at Ogden. Utah, where I was stationed then, and have a daughter who Is two years old now. .. . Before entering the Army I worked in the Social Service Dept. of the Indiana State Boy's School here in Plalnfield." 
Drove up to St. Cloud, Minn, wliere my folks now live (Good Thunder is a thing of the past) for Easter. On my way I stopped In St. Paul and visited with my old buddy Tom Bohen^ who after seeing both Europe and Asia in the army is back with Donaldson's Store in Minneapolis as manager of one of their de­partments and mighty happy to be with his wife and two children. Also met Jerry Kane's wife and two children who were visiting her folks in St. Paul. Slie said Jerry recently left Douglas Aircraft to become Pacific Coast representative for the Swedish Airlines—that practically makes us related, doesn't It? —and will settle in Seattle. 
Here's a bit of dirt on me: I bought a small farm near South Bend. I *have also changed positions. I am now associate editor of the Ball-Band house organ and assistant to the publicity director at their MIshawaka plant. Moving from La Porte means that I will have to relinquish the editorship of our weekly four page parish paper "The Parishioner" which I founded the first of the year. Otherwise I am happy to be back within sight of the golden Dome again. 
Bill Toamey was married in England, accord­ing to a short notice received In the Alumni Office. . 
Clark Beynolds after Xavy ser\*ice Is again with the Union Bag and Paper Corp., with offices in Xew York City. 
John ITord was discharged from the Xavy as lieutenant In December and is working lu 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
dustrial Chemicals. Newark, X. J. John's home is in Brooklyn. 
Joe RnetZt ^\-ho has signed to play with the 
Chicai^o Cardinals next fall while doing^ some graduate work at the University of Chicago, was in South Bend recently following his dis­charge from the na\-al air corps. 
Bub Mullen is now working with the Xavy in "Washington as a research analyst, and has bought a home in Silver Spring, lid. 

Emtneft Crowe, released from the AAF, where he served as a physical director, has been named' as football coach at Spalding Institute in Peoria, 111., to succeed Eniiio Arbeit, who is now head ceach at St. Ambrose College, Davenport. la. * 
John Bourke is with Frj-. Lawson & Co., consulting management engineers, 135 South LaSalle St., Chicago. 
19^ Q VINCENT W. BeCOURSEY, 1331 
• ' ^ ' (ietirria, Kansas City, Kans, 

Joe Lewis is working for the B. F. Goodrich Co. in Clarksville, Tenn. He was discharged from the Air Corps as a first lieutenant after four years service. He was married on Feb. 2 to Carj-1 M. Cavanaugh of Chicago. Joe*s brother, John, '42, is out of the Xavy after four years. 
' '^ w )tisconsin Ave., MUwuulcee, Wis, 

Jerr>' Flj-nn, former cheerleader, has been appointed sports publicity director at the United States Xaval Academy. Jerry was dis­charged as a Lit. (j.g.) after nearly two j-ears service aboard a carrier in the South Pacific. 
John Boemier is with the FBI and is (or was) in St. Paul. Minn. Burt Hal! is still 
•working for the Glenn llartin Co., in Baltimore. And Ked Yuans: is a research chemist with the Shell Oil Co. in Martinez, Calif. 
John Gavon Is in the Law School at Colum­bia University, X. Y. C. 
Tom I^eahy, South Bend, brother of Fni"k, was successful in his bid for Republican nom­ination for state representative in the recent Indiana primarj-. 
Chuck Riflle, recently discharged from the armed forces, has signed to play with the Xew York Yankees in the All-America Con­ference. Bud Kerr, also recently discharged, is to play with the IMS Angeles Dons. 
Rnss Jandoli is now with the editorial de­partment of the "Xewark Evening Xews." 
Fruneia X. Gulndon is teaching part time in the Boston College High School and attending Harvard working toward a doctorate in Educa­tion. 
Bemie Cushinxr is once more working for the Bethlehem Steel Co. and living in E. Braintree, 3klass, 
 W. PATTERSON, JR., 5530 1941 JOHN Rd., Fa. 
I>nrliiist4m Flttshmrh, 

From Jghn Patters»on: Since the last issue of the 'Alumnus,* only two communiques have passed over this desk, hut fortunately, some personal contacts are going to add a little length to the column. 
First to some important business—not only to *41-ers, but all alumni. The Fourth Annual Alumni Fund is under way. Purpose this year is to reach a bigger volume of alumni than ever before. I imagine tliat, during the war j-ears, many have 3^st not had the time to sit down, address an envelope, and send a fiver or so to the University. But now most everyone is settling down—and this class In particular is thinking of Xotre Dame because It's time for the Five-Year Heunion. it would be a good idea If e\-ery one of the Mlers would have their name on the list of contributers to the 4th Annual Fund. The amount is Becondarj-. A long list of names is of the 
essence. 
Well. Paul Vixrnos and the former Miss Edith Ingalls were married just as March passed around the corner. Fddie MelluKh .ind I got to the wedding. Ed was an usher. I Avas the original Barney Oldfield—taking off from work here in Pittsburgh at 5:00 p.m.. arriving at the Statlcr Hotel three hours later, changing clothes and arriving- at the dinner before the next day's wedding. 
Only unfortunate aftermath—right after the wedding trip, Paul went into the Army. 
Before going back to Pittsburgh, ran into Jim "nnnej- who is buzzing around the Cleve­land airport as an employee. He and Katie Ann (formerly Schock) Tinney are getting along fine, wish the best to all their friends of schooldays, schooldays. 
Xext on the agenda—Cliarlie Dillon—who gets into Pittsburgh often—came up with a find. It was Jack l>ucas in Pittsburgh for a short stay with his wife- Jack, Charlie and myself with our "escorts" stopped in to see Jim McXulty and the ilrs. at their Fifth and Shady Avenues domicile Iiere. 
])ick WImlen was in Pittsburgh on business, called up in the midst of pressing affairs to stale he*d get in touch with me again when he got a breather. X^ever did hear from him. But our phone often rings when there's no one home to form an audience. Sorry I missed Dick the next time. 
(Xotc to SiMMip Scnnlon—your classmate, Tom Powers is nmv "working at the desk directly to my right-front"at the Pittsburgh ••Press." Tom came in while still in uniform, got himself a job and has bee7i xvith us for nearly a month. Is doing well—has proved himself a great detective by ferretting out a place to live.) 

Big event—^Slammin* Sam Nield was In town for nearly two weeks. I had dinner with him a Couple of times, played one round of golf with the old money player. Sam can still hit the ball. He had a rough day at the Field Clul>^one of our tougher courses—first time out. Shot an 82. Came back the second time to knock around in an excellent 73. Had a good chance for an under-70 round but for two bad holes. Sam made quite an Impression on the members out there with his booming drives "for such a little guy." 
Sam and I talked to Ray Pinelli*s dad while he was in town umpiring some of the Pitts­burgh Pirate Guild nine's baseball atrocities. Ray, it seems, has had some very bad luck-Got out of the Army and went with Oakland on the Coast. Broke his elbow In first ex­hibition game. Latest report doesn't tell whether he's back on the field or not. Hope Ray comes around soon. 
Indirect Intelligence—(from Dillon and Lu­cas). Krwin 3IiK>ney was doing some p-g work at University of Chicago when last heard from. Jack Burke in Law School at Xotre Dame. 
The ALUMNUS is proud to pre­sent these pictures of the late Lt Charles Robert (Bob) Schlayer, '41, Harrisburg, Po^ and his sister Lt Cmdr. Mary EUxabeth Schlayer. A B-29 navigator. Bob failed to return from a mission over Nagoya, Japan, on Dec 22, 1944. 

BIck Bail now an instructor at Xotre Dame. Bill Carbine studying accounting at Xotre Dame. FVank Hopkins married to former Millie O'Dea and In Toungstown. Bill Ilatves with a baby boy. 
Through the mails—Emerj' Martin sent a letter along to announce that he was wonder­ing what ever happened to Ray Pinelli's hand-w^ritlng ability. "Would also like to know whether or not "Onions" tJndeniner is hiding still—somewhere In the Xa\*>'. Emer>- himself is working at radio station KFIZ In his home­town. Fond du Lac, Wise. 
Just as the deadline arrived a note came from Tom Grady who Is commanding officer of the U.S.S. Xicollet. AVS-6. He's a lieu­tenant commander. His boat was commis­sioned on April 27, 1945, has sailed in the Gulf of Mexico, with the Pacific Fleet. She operated mostly from Apra Harbor, Guam, Marianas Islands into the forward areas. Tom was a member of the original crew. 
That's about all there is. I'm still looking for a lot more letters. Send them on. They'll all be answered and contents will be duly noted in this column. Everyone who does write always w*ants to know about one or more others. It's disappointing not to be able to tell them. 
Jack Mallaney is production manager for the Wilbree Manufacturing Co., at Xorwalk, Conn. . . . Chuck Farrell is doing graduate work at Cornell. . . . Vretl Vtwdeivede is an accountant for Hnskins and Sells In Cincin­nati. . . . Hutch Knrth Is vice president and general manager of American Air Export and Imi>ort Co. in iliami Springs. Fla» . . . Three of the four officers and chief stockholders of the company are Xotre Dame men: Chuck Carroll* '39. and Turn Carroll and Hutch, both 
•41. The company operates five DC3*s in passenger and cargo work. . . . Dick McMahon is a salesman for the U. S. Gypsum Co. in Milwaukee. 
Rnss Harrii* Is back In the Xavy to assist in writing a historj* of the war In the Pacific. 
Jero" Hickey, South Bend, recently out of the Xavy, Is working for his father on the construction of the new Farley Hall at Xotre Dame, and expects to continue with him after that job Is completed. 
Dr. Ed P*»Mier, graduated from Loyola, Chi­cago. Medical School in 1943, has been in the Army for the past 19 months and is now at Camp Polk. La., as a first lieutenant. His chaplain is Father llabetz, at Xotre Dame in the late "20s. Jim McGlcw, *42. is another' medical officer. 
Bob Meyer Is working for the Bell Telephone Co. of Pennsylvania In their offices In Phila­delphia. 
1942 WILX.IAM E. SCAXLON, U. S- Lawn 
Lot's start oft w*ith an air-mall from Europe-bound CapL John Gordon, dated 22 March. It came in just too late for the April 'Alumnus:' 
"Oftentimes I have wanted to comment on the '42 news in the 'Alumnus.' It has been grand to read about the fellows and It still remains my favorite reading. 
"I have been overseas now for 20 montlis with the infantry. I was with the 70th Di­vision all the way through and was lucky enough to get through the whole thing. to win the Purple Heart only once. In Septem­ber, 1945, I was sent back to France to ad­minister a P\V stockade with 2,000 SS troops within. Xot much work physically but quite a paper war. 
"Last January I went to Paris on leave. was walking down the street and ran into John Muriarity, '42. He looked swell, and as a matter of fact appeared to be a little heavier than when we ate X. D. cliow to­gether. I'm still wondering what happened to Jerry Heinlen. Hello, especially to the Brownson Hall guys." tJerry is out of the Army. He was at X'otre Dame in early Stay, planning to be married in June.—Ed] 
Volume 24, No. 3, June, 1946 33' 
I'll bet Gordon wouldn't know Brownson Hall—had a chance to visit the place not so long ago, and It's now the house of many oinces. Shades of changes. -• 
To Tom Powers, late of the U. S. Army (March 30) and currently of Pittsburgh, goes a vote of thanks for a swell newspacked letter, dated May 12: 
1 

"Got free from the Army in March and spent about a month getting from Fort McClellan, Ala., my last station to New York because of stops at New Orleans. Oklahoma City, Tiilsa. home for a week, Kansas City, St. Louis. Springfield, then a week-end with Paul Xe-ville in South Bend. Neville is getting along nicely at the 'Tribune' and don't be surprised If he gets married soon. 
•'Visited the campus and saw Father J. Hugh O'Donnell, John Donnelly, Brother Meinrad, Joe the cook in Corby, Father Br»ujchal, Father LaMkowsId, Paul Fenlon and a host of guys from '41. '43 and '44. who have returned from service and gone back to school. While in Tulsa. I noted that Charlie 3feMahon Is now the proud father of two. but didn't have a chance to drop in for a visit. 
"Saw Bill Fuy in the 'Trib ollice" in Clitcago. In Detroit and Cleveland I bumped Into a few nlumni, but none from '42. Had a grand time visiting tlie growing detachment of the Powers clan In New York. • John is out of service and living in Forest Hills, along with Tom McCreedy, another Enid boy from the class of '42. Talked to Frank Lavelle several times but didn't get a chance to get out to Far Rockaway to see > him. 
"Talked to Joe Lane's sister and dad. He was due back from Tokyo before May 1. Oh yes, had a nice visit with Fred Beekman and his beauteous wife, Bette, In South Bend. Fred has a nice start on his art career there. 
"Saw Joe Petritzl in New York. Also met John Balfe. Frank Riley, '37, Jim Caniey, Al Perrine and Howie SchellenberB's brother, as well as Dick .Mun>l>y of our cass. Sat fn on Universal Notre Dame Night in Pittsburgh. Met Jack Fdwards and Bob Career of '43. and had a great time rehashing old times with Fildie HuflT^ '40. 
"I'm in the editorial—promotion department of the 'Press' in Pittsburgh and am learning a lot about the business. Have two other Notre Dame men within easy reach: Johnny Patterson, alumni secretary of '41, who handles rotogravure for the 'Press,' and Kudy CmkcK ^•ic, '34, who Is with' United Press, about a thousiind picas away. 
"Notre Damer's meet here every Thursday noon at the Fort Pitt Hotel. I'm looking forward to seeing more alumni then. I also bumped into Bill <)uinn. *44. He Is going back to Notre Dame to finish and looks swell." 
Looked like bad news for Coach Leahy and his potential 194G varsity—at least from the Old Timers camp. Why—Jim Brntz .ind Bob Maddock ' had been collaborating with Bob Dove and IxHi Rymkus In organizing the Old Timers. The game was scheduled for June 1 at the Xotre Dame Stadium. All those fellows are expected to perform In pro circles this fall. 
It seemed like '42-Night when the annual Notre Dame Night was held at the Hotel Bilt­more In New York a few weeks ago. 
, Some of us late-comers landed in a distant corner where tele\'IsIon would have helped the view of the Speaker's Table but the conversa­tion wasn't lacking, especially with Dick Murphy, Joe Lane, John Powers and Mel Rummel sitting together In what was referred to as "Freshman Hall Avenue." Tom Walker's sister was at the same table, and Tom, one of the big wheels of the New York Notre Dame club, edged a little closer. 
Toastmaster for the occasion—probably a record for the Class of *42 to be so singularly honored—was Paul Llllis, late of the Navy and former football captain. Paul was chair­man for the banquet and is an ofllcer of the 
Notre Dame club. 
Vital statistics picked up betw^een courses: Johnny Powers is engaged to Miss Barbara McCracken of Forest Hills. N. Y. Jim MCFB4­den and the Missus flew over to New York from Pennsylvania in one of the planes operated by the line in which Howie Kurth Is a major stockholder. Goyette said Clarence Imbode is married and Is an Interne at Mt. Carmel Mercy Hospital, Detroit. 
Whoever got together the fine listing of the guests present and the table numbers certainly rates an orchid or two. Among the names rather familiar to our class were these person­alities: Angelo Amato, Bill Banm, Jr., Tom Carroll, Bn«| Concannon. Charley Conifer, John Denney, Ed Dunlavy, Bill Fallon, Jack Gar¥ey, Ralph Germ, Dun Goyette, Joe Ijuie^ Jim 3IcFuddra, Bud Shouvlin, £d SolliTan Joe Summers, Tom Walker, and there were many more. 
After 70 months distinguished serr­ice. Col. Francis S, Gobresld. '42. right, the AAFs top scoring ace ot the European Theater of Operations, recently left the Army at Wright Field. O. He is here having a fare* well handshoke with Major General 
B. W. Chidlaw. Frank completed 166 missions against the Japa and Ger­mans, flying a total of over 400 com> bat hours. He shot down 28 Germon fighter planes in the air and de­stroyed three on the ground. 
Greg Rice was on hand and agreed to donate a pair of his running shoes to the Trophy Case of the Rockne ilemorial. He still gets a chance to ran about once a week but figures his major racing career Is about over. But one never can tell. Greg appeared to be In pretty fine shape. 
Dave Condon visited New York on May 10 and called to sny hello. All wrapped up In tennis promotion, "Chicago Tribune" manner. I heard from Ked Lonerjcan, still ankle deep In work on the Chicago Xotre Dame club's fine directory. 
That brings the chatter around to Mrs. Lora I.ashbrook*s contribution regarding the lawyers: 
Jack Barry was in for a short visit two weeks ago. He and Charles IIa»son indulged in some interesting- reminiscing about their e.'cperJences with the Army Air Corps in Colo­rado and complained that the third Kotre Dame lawyer who shared these experiences, Dick Brj'dKes, was unreported for so many months. Two days later a letter arrived from . Dick, asking for registration In the fall se­mester and announcing his eligibility for hous­ing as a married veteran! 
Soc Montegna was recently admitted to the Illinois Bar and we assume will be practicing somewhere In Illinois. Two more 1942 gradu­ates took the examination but we have had no report as to their success. They are Jim Diver and Pete Alonzi. Jim was up for a 
few days* visit about the time of the exam­
ination but had not yet decided ujion a. loca­
tion. ; ^ 
m i SfWKlgr and wife spent a week with ' us the first of May while Bill looked over the 
area in northern Indiana as a possible location 
for practice. Bill returned from a lonr tonr 
of duty with the Air Corps stationed the entire 
time In India. 
Bill STtin*. after a long silence, finally wrote a short letter. He is with the Federal Power Commission in IVashlngton and his purpose In writing was to obtain the necessary certifica­tions for admission to the District of Columbia bar. 
£niie Tiipani was through here and stopped for a visit not too lon^ ago. 
Bob OberfcU wrote recently from New Tork' to say that he had seen Walter Ivaacerle at.' a Notre Dame club meeting and that Walter Is looking well and was inquiring about his classmates. Bob also told ua that Gene WoU­hotn had been given a position with the law firm of Quinn and Schur in 'New Torlc 
BUI Hosinski has been out to use the librarr here once or twice in the last month. Bill is doing some practice in South Bend and It seems certain he will be one of our leading attorneys before too long. 
I^ro linck telephoned us from Cleveland where he had stopped oft on his way home to visit Mrs. Bab SalUTSB and little David Patrick. He will return to practice in Mich­igan. 
Jim l4uwaster just dropped In for a visit (May 20). He Is out of the army and is "rehabilitating" himself up among the Michigan lalces. 
Of the group who would have graduated In 1942 had not the war intervened and who are now back in school are: I<eoB«rd B»dMn, Charles Hmssom, John Merer, Martin SoA» Bobert SoUiTaa. Andy Chemer. Ctarics W. CaTanaasfa, Getard Feeaey. Bobert I«. BOUer* Bay Qninn, Bobert Sinoa, Robert Stewart, Georve Stratigos and Fred Hoover. 
. For the fall. semester we have registered 
several who left school many months ago for 
military service and among them are: Joka 
Wuertz, Joe laae, Bick Brydges» Allen Xlnk, 
Walter Jones, Herb Melton* Jaek Byan, and 
Brin 
Remembering a favorite cover sheet on the 'Alumnus' taken from a photograph of Admiral Ximitz pinning the Navy Cross on our Marine Joe Barr, It was a coincidence that a lon^ distance call came in from Joe while we were at the Drill Hall watching Admiral Nimitz receive an. honorary degree on May 15. Joe is practicing in Alton, III., his home town. 
That's all now. Don't forget, IP IT'S NEWS, WRITE SCOOP. 
1st Lt. Don Cawy was awarded . the Army's f new Commendation Ribbon in March for out­standing service as aide-de-camp to the com­manding general of the 7th Infantry Division . in Korea. . . . Ted MacDonald has gone into the advertising business with his father In West Lafayette. Ind. . . . Joe Knott is work­ing ,as claims investigator with the Travelers Insurance Co. In their Bridgeport, Connecticut.. office. .. . 
Snbby Nowlcki, recently released to inactive duty by the Navy, has been named athletic director for South Bend Post No. 30. of the American Iiegion. ^ 
Tom Cresribracht began ' working for the Caterpillar Tractor Co. in Peoria in April. He hoped to have a house by the first of June and to have his family, in Chicago, join him'. 
Bob DcMosa Is working for the McDonnell Aircraft Corp. at the Lamhert-St. IJOUIS airport. He is employed In the filght test department in the aerodynamics division. 
Former Navy lit. Hack MalUtm, Jr., has re­turned to Arlington. Mass.. to join his wife and young daughter after 35 months of active duty, 30 of which were at sea in both the Atlantic and Pacific. He was in IJST work. 
The Notre Dcone Alumnus 
IQ^ ^ EDWARD C. KDNKY. IVill Irniiuois ' '^ ^ Ave., Drtniit, Mich. 
From Ed Itoney: 

Plans have been made to tr>' to take care of ever>'one during the big class reunion. June 
27. 2S. and 29. Jf>e Haas and ICcfrgie Flynn on the campus arc going to handle details from there, supported by Messrs. Dooley and Ami-s»tr(inir. As far as possible, we'll all be to­gether in a residence hall. So those of you (and we hope its 100%) who plan to be tliere. drop a line to Joe Haas in "Walsh Hall or my­self at my home address above so we can make some definite plans. 
Going back to the campus these days is almost like a small reunion. There are about 33 of the class back. On May 6. I saw a gang and picked up the following: 
Those back arc: Bob Kenney, K<1 Noonan. John Davis, Jack. Rrgnn, Bob Martin, Tom H«rlih.v. Fred Xaetclr, Bob McFarlane. Kd Hfmver, Bud Ccdemvall, Bob Shade, Jai-k Ilines, Bill Walsh, Jerry Shea, Tom Mitchell, Mike and Jim Gmlfrey, Jack Barr>', Dick Smith, Bob O'ltrien, Hal Miters. Harrj* Kelse.v, Joe Haas, Don Defirnan, Johnnie Spcclit, Cliarlie Wade, Graham MeGoivan. Recffie FI.vnn, Ted Zitnick, 1.UU Canist), Adrian Fej-ton, .Art McBride and Jack McGrath. 
Gail Fitch is out of the Navy and was back for a visit while looking for a job. 
Bin Binet is married, has a child, and Is running a St. Paul sports store. 
Johnnie Powers was in Xew York during April to get married. Bill Olvany is discharged and was married In Xew York April 6. He*s working at Albany Steam Contracting. Chuck Butler will support a wife and baby by play­ing pro basketball for the Chicago Gears next year, wUh Bob Kensberger. 
Dem Ueltzel Is out of the Xavy. Bill O'Brien Is supervisor of the American .\irlines ticket Ollice in the .\irlines Terminal on 42nd St.. 
X. Y. C. Tony Buono is a physical education instructor at Xotre Dame. Paul Malloy has shed his khaki and is now in Tulsa. Frank Kunkle expected a Coast Guard discharge In May. 
Ked Lonergan is working for the X. D. Club of Chicago on a new club dlrectorj*. Bob Kuipers is Braniff Airlines ticket manager In Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ed Murray, and Mr- and Mrs. Ra.v Sclioonhaven attended the Xotre Dame Junior Prom, 3 May. in the Rockne ileniorlal. Bad Gans was married to Miss Jeannie Parks, April 3, in Wichita, Kans. Bud A'auBuren is 
•working in Chicago. 
Bart Kamsour is probably still on terminal leave, deciding whether or not to go to Law School. Wally Christman, who finished Com­merce is back to try Engineering. (I'll try and get a personal interview for next Issue to settle the long-standing question of which is more difficult). Ollie Hunter reports he's finished running, except to catch the bus for his new .job in Xew York. B<»b KoKers Is a volunteer end coach at Xotre Dame. Wally Ziemba is 
one of ilic regular coaching staff. 
One of the gang saw Elmer Peterson in Lin-chow. China, awhile back, while J«>e Keenan was in Shanghai in November 1945. He missed playing for Army in the Thanksgiving ,A.rmy-Xavy game out there, due to an injury. Jack <D<M:) Hickey is making Chicago housewives happy by flooding the city with pots and pans. 
Joe Hillebrand was down to the campus, not out of uniform yet- Bill MeCaughey also dropped down between job-hunts. Ed Xaegle is out on terminal leave and may go to Law School out east. John Consldine was down to the campus after his discharge. 
Johnnie Boyle got some leave as CO of a minesweeper on the west coast long enough to marry Miss Alice Kent of South Bend in Feb­ruary. Carl Forester was also niarried in April. Tom McSweeny is still in the Army and the proud father of three children. 
Fred Doutel Is working for Studebakcr in South Bend. John Sehlndler is at the Univer­sity of Chicago. John (^fferj- was graduated from St. Louis Med School in ilarch. Chnck Muri>h.v is working for his father in St. Louis. Hal Hunter Is assistant prosecuting attorney for his county in Missouri. Bob LeMense, in a fine new job, is said to be keeping the cosmetic problem under control for the women of Wisconsin and illchigan- John Scherer was down to the campus in April for a visit. 
That about finishes all the news that I picked up from the gang in the cafe. So on to the letters: 
**I went down to Jacksonville, after finishing my stay at Great Lakes, spent six weeks there, got released to Inactive duty, spent my termi­nal leave bumming around, and, finally meet­ing my wife in Xew York city, coming to Oak Park, and going to work for Haskins and Sells CPAs, here in Chicago; address is now 200 Home One. Oak Park, III. Have been seeing quite a bit of the Xotre Dame gang from Chicago vicinity, including Jack Wigxins, Jim ^Eadljran, Wally McXamara. -Bob Kui|>ers, Frank Kaiser, and a bunch of others. Bill Me.ver and Keicgie Fl>*nn drop In once in a while from Xotre Dame—they're back taking post grad courses. Bill In law and Reg In economics. Bill, you know, is engaged to mafrj' my cousin here in Oak Park. Hope to see you at the general re-union." 
Xo, Fred. I'm not out as yet but will be in time for the reunion. Decided to extend for a couple of months in order to train a relief. "Will be swell to see you at the reunion. 
Carl Coeo got the following off on the 14th of March; it arrived just too late for last Issue. 
"Served about three years with the Army Air Corps and have now been out since the middle of October of last year. Am at present going to the Tulane University School of Law located here in Xew Orleans. If any of the old gang should e\-er find himself down in these parts, I'd surely like to see them. Re­ceived word that Sammy Meyer of Blanchard-ville. Wis., is now out of the ser\-ico after seeing quite a bit of action out in the Pacific. Last I heard of Bob Corrigfln of Hulmville, Pa-, he was in Germany or thereabouts sweating out the return trip to the States. At the X.D.­Tulane game of last year I ran into Li»i Kj'ni­kas. War.v ZiemlHi. Jack Powers, ICed Johnston and a few others of the X. D. boys. Have hopes of seeing some more of them and others when the two schools tie up again this year. Don't worry—there'll be no problem as to wlio I'll he pulling for—Xotre Dame stole my heart years ago and, no matter how hard they may try, no other school will ever take my first love from me." 
You've got the right idea there Carl, and I'm sure a lot of the rest will join you In saying that. 
I>an Stewart, long lost Alumni Hall stalwart, reports on three years of his doings as fol­lows: 
"Bill McGowan and I went through middle school at good old XD and got our com­missions on 29 July 1943. We were both assigned to aviation and trained as engineer­ing Ofiicors at Xorfolk, Hartford, and Jackson­ville. In March of '44 we went to San Diego where we went to a PB4y (B-24) school and then reported, to Camp Kearney, a PB4Y base near San Diego. There we were put in bomber comiionents- Bill's outfit left here in August '44. He later joined CASU(F)-11 and was on Oki­nawa for about the last month of hostilities there. He is still there and will probably^ be on his way home shortly. My outfit left this area in February of '45 and joined CASU(F)-8. We spent a couple months on San Xlcolas, an island 90 miles off the coast, and then moved around the Port Hueneme area waiting for some work. We were just about ready to ship out when the war ended. Our component was 

broken up and I was sent back here to Camp Kearney. I got back here the end of November and ran into Ed Dare of Detroit. He was get­ting ready to ship out. He is a co-pilot in a privateer crew and signed up for a few more months. He*s about the only one I've seen from X. D. except Mac I've always been in smalt auxiliary airfields in out of the way places . . . Witli the new point drop, I think I'll get home just in time for that three-day reunion. My points are up the 15th of June. I had an announcement of Geonee Copiiins mar­riage out here on the coast. I'm still a verj­eligible bachelor, but I hope to take care of that when I get home. 
Better late than never, Dan. "We need news to keep this going and letters like yours are what does it. 
Tlie last letter this Issue is from Jack Har­riffan on 19 ^larch and lie starts with: 
"I'm still in the Xavy and liave extended until July 1. After my terminal leave this summer, I hope to go to Cal Tech or the University of Southern California and work for my master's. I returned from the South Pacific a week before V-J day. and was lucky enough to come Into Los Angeles harbor. Be­cause of this, I was home for six weeks, which wasn't hard to take. From L. A. I went to Boston for a few weeks of radar refresher at M. I. T. VInce Slatt was stationed at the Xavy Yard there and he, his wife, and myself saw the debacle at Yankee stadium. We bump­ed into Bob Madden at the Commodore after­wards, but couldn't stay around to meet any of the others. Took a couple of weekend jaunts while at Boston and saw some of the fellows. At Pittsfield I got together with Ed Cleary and Walt Hrim and their wives. Went down to Washington and had another E.E. reunion witli Bob Fadesky, Maurice Baddour and their wives, and John Dunn.. About the only one absent was Jack Brehmer- who was then on an APA In Tokio Bay." 
Thanks, and write again when you get settled after July, Jack. 
The rest of the news is very little. Ed Hickey Is out of the Xavy and will be joining his dad in the clothing business as soon as there is something to sell. 
A very nice announcement of the marriage of Blair McGowan and St. Mar>-*s Jeannie Wynant in Muskegon in early April arrived awhile back. I'll oft'er my congrats in person at the reunion, Blair. 
Some time before you read this you all should have received a letter from me about various subjects of class interest. If anyone hasn't, it means that the University and myself haven't his latest address. Tlmt will be bad around football ticket time, so how al>out send­ing it on to me. A postcard will do if you haven't time for anything more. 
See you all at the class reunion. And, don't forget, '43 is aiming for the top In Xotre Dame's Fourth Annual Alumni Fund. Send your share in now. 
Dallas Milem is employed by the Mastic Asphalt Corp. in South Bend. . . . Bob Dove is at Xotre Dame helping out with spring foot­ball training; he goes to the Chicago Rockets of the All-America conference this fall as a player-coach. . . . Carl Coco is a law student at Tulane University. .. . 
Ww»y Evans, is out of the Xavy and working for the Seiberling Rubber Co. in Barberton, O. 
Tom Richards of Colorado Springs, Colo-, has begun work as assistant tax consultant with the Holly Sugar Corp. t*o Keating, re­turned to Saginaw. Mich., from the army, is planning to enter the University of Michigan in the fall for a one-year business course. 
Frmnk Conaty is with the Parker Pen Co. in Janesville, Wis.­
lAWTcnce Tierney, discharged from the army, intended to enter the Harvard Graduate School of Sanitary Engineering on" June 17, and to work for the L. J. Tierney Co. in Boston. 
m 0AA JOHN A. LlTNOH, I57S4 GrmndTUIe I Tf l Rd., Detroit S3, Mich. 
From John Lj-nch: Under way again, and it's Bill Scheach on hand with the last of his messages from the 16th Fleet tied up at Green Cove Springs^ Fla. The dale is March 20, just missing our last deadline, so bend an ear. 
"Have seen but one Notre Dame man since I last wrote. I was over at the Xaval Station one day and heard someone call my name-Looked around and there was Bob Gschweml 
we were in Breczy-P together as freshmen. Had a milkshake together (best we could do under the circumstances), and sat around and batted the breeze for an hour or so- Bob is supply officer on the Booth (DE 170). Right now thoy are up at Jacksonville in dry dock, but when they return to this place we expect to get together. AVould try to meet him in Jacksonville, but with the Pony Express still operating in these wilds, and with just one trip every three days, it is rather inconvenient. Have heard from round and about sources that my ex-roomIe, Slike 3laIloy, will soon arrive down here on his DE. Last I heard they were in Brooklyn at the Navy Yard. Sure would like to see old Michael. 
"And I hope to see you at Notre Dame at that big reunion.'* 
We'll be looking for Bill come the 28th of June, and for a lot more of the class who will be getting back to Notre Dame for the three-day affair. One'person we don't expect to see, however, is Jrrr>- Skofronlck. As of April 6 Jerry was sending his mail out of Tokyo, and the prospects of his being state­side very soon are slim. He is a second loole now (1 went through infantry basic with Jerry) with the Signal Section GHQ of AFPAC. 
"I've only been 'abroad* a comparatively short time according to the standard set by most men over here, but I*m lookinig forward to returning liome under the 31 August directive which frees from bondage all men with two years service. By that time 1*11 have had 38 months, so I'm optimistic. So much so in fact that last week I wrote to the Notre Dame registrar requesting reinstatement effective with the fall term. Now there remains the problem of getting myself home, out of the army, and mentally refreshed on Accounting to the point whore I can take up my last se­mester. 
"While still at Fort Monmouth, N. J., I ran into George Charters, and !.«» Bitter, '43. George left for a signal assignment along the Alcan Highway somewhere in Canada shortly before I left for Japan. 
"At dinner, the evening of my first day in Tokyo. Dick Doermer walked up to say hello. For a few days we lived in the same billet. He's a navy man. as you know, and is sched­uled for a sentimental journey early in May." 
For all of us who haven't returned to Notre Dame the good word comes from "Black John" Murpliy who Is struggling with the books again on campus. Between classes Murph has con­ducted a, little survey of familiar faces and has come through with an amazing list of names. Most of these are men of *44, but a few from other years are included, and perhaps a few who are at scliool have been missed. But here goes: 
"Thinking over the follows that are back I can hardly name them all. Of the married lads. I can think of Bill (Red) Jlurphy), whose wife is home with their two children; Bis Joe Walsh, with one offspring; my old roomie, Jim Lluyd. living with his wife and little Mike on Riverside Drive; Frannie Curran living with his wife up in Roseland; Bill Hooley and wife, and ditto for Joe Lane, Sam Win^r* Jacques Veeneman, Jack Slater and Bob McBHde. Fnink Sanfllllppu is in town with his wife and baby too. Bill Martin Is out my way on Portage. Jaek Hupf U' to gui married in the T^og Chapel «vor Easter time, or soon after. 
"Among the single lads I can think of Arty Hoffman, J<ie RiKne}*, Joe Patmcco, my old pals, Tom 0'Conn<ir, 'Mux.* Kuscrs, Ray O'Con­nell, I>ank Smith, Al Yoanchans and £mie Sedimajr. Also Paul Marietta, Nick Vlllarosa. Don Trottier, Jack Martint Firank Groves, BUI Kelly, Bill Shea, Chock Cullinan, Cacser Max­zukelly* Bemie OHara and Bub Casey. 
"Then there are Bud Ahem, Bob Duffy, John Duffy, Mario Massalo, Jim Atkinson, Don Des-­nan, Lnrr>' Goebeler, Bemie IHnncane, John Qainn, Ben George, Gene Slevin, Will Wylie,. Joe Steele and Harry Merc%r. 
"Bob Maddock is back with his wife and baby, and Is looking swell in spite of the rough time he had. Bernie Crimmins looks good too. Botli are doing some of the coaching. I saw Harry Wrislit, wife and baby, too, while on a visit. 
"More-men on the campus are: Jerry Brown, £Im ^ Silhn, 'Gigs' Giordano, Kcrmit RuusseTe, Joe Dillon, Jack Snllivan, Paul McCabe, John McCabe, Jim Hubbard, Joe Rnd, Jack Whitely (married). Jack I^llon, Ted Smith, John Beyerle, Gerry 0*Reilly, Bob Logan* Gas Kelly, Bill Harrs, Lon Schmitz, SHke Frawley, Bill Slowey, Vic De Simon and Harrj* Erd." 
Thanks for the report. Murph. and try to keep all those men on hand for the reunion. A lot more of us will be down to see you then. 
At least one of our class is still on the hospi­tal circuit, and tliat lad Is John Cowley. He wrote from the west coast April 24 and is pretty anxious to hear about things Notre Dame. If any of you want to write, his ad­dress is: AAP Convalescent Hospital. Ft. George Wright, Spokane. Wash. Here is his letter: 
"Luckily enough I ran Into Panl Rnbly, *36. of Arcadia, Calif., and he gave me two old 'Alumnus' magazines. Paul is In Dibble Gen­eral Hospital, Menlo Park. Calif. So now I feel that I'm back in touch with Notre Dame. Your column is great; the only part I don't care for is the death notices. It seems like the best of the bunch always get killed. 
"Last month was a great one for me. I got up from the sack for the first time in a year. Went down on a mission over Germany, flying P-51's. got banged up a little, and am now happily walking on a leg brace. Two or three months and I should be able to discard that too. 
"Right now I'm travelling to a convales­cent center In Spokane, Wash. Hoi>e to br out In time to get back to Notre Dame In the fall. But these hospitals are hard to break out of. 
"^ly ex-roommate. Kip W(KMI, Is home after a couple of years overseas with an MP outfit. Haven't heard from him lately, but Imagine he'll be set to go back to Notre Dame in the fall. Mike Conway called me when he arrived in the States from the Pacific. That was about two months ago, and by now he should be out and home. 
"While In the hospital in England Bob SlcBride came in to see me. He had just been released from a POW camp near Hanover, Germany. Suppose he Is back at Notre Dame now. Joe Van Dyke's wife keeps me Informed as to what's going on in Kansas City. The Van Dyke's have a beautiful baby girl nearly a year old now. Bob Metzler, Joe's cousin. Is back ^rom Japan. He got In a lot of fighting with the Marines over there. 
"Would appreciate any old 'Alumnus.' or new ones If possible—also 'Scholastics.* " 
Dan Waterbur>- is stationed at N.A.S.. New York, awaiting discharge about July 1. He intends to enter M.I.T. in the fall to work toward a master's degree in aeronautical engi­neering. 
That brings the column to a close, with the exception of a name or two that I can supply. Jerr>- Quinn was awarded a posthumous Bronze Star for his work with the S8th Reconnals­M:ince Troop In Italy. John Anhut was In Detroit last month on his last leave and should be out any day now. Ben Mamniina took a whirl at the University of Indiana, but left there and was last heard from at San Diego, 
Calift tedc BefTCS is out and taking Business Administration at the University of Detroit. And that Is all. ! If you're *44. write a. letter now. ' 
1945 and Later 
Bob Mtnrisscx is the American vice consul 
in Alexandria, Egypt. . . . Dave Tandlm, of South Bend, has been admitted to the bar in . Indiana. . . . Bob HcIIman is a teacher In New Bremen. O. . . . lit. Jrtm Kdljr, of the .Marines, will resume his studies at the Uni­
versity next fan. 
Lt. Jack ZUIr» on his way' to Sonthington. Conn., for a leave after nearly two years' service aboard a destroyer, dropped In for a . brief visit. He expects to be discharged in June and said that he will return to his studies in September. S/Sgt. BUI SoKmeis writes from Calcutta. India, that he intends to return to Notre Dame as soon as he begins wearing that, golden bird. 
£mie Tnmicli, writing from a 'troopship, "halfway across the Pacific" tells'of altunni activities in Manila immediately^ after, the battle of Manila. He says. "GonaaU'^Taldc*, '35. and I had a get-together in mid-May (i94a) with a half dozen other alumni. , We were still few and far between, at that early stage after the battle of Manila. In November a far better showing was made at the second alumni gathering, nearly 200 coming from, all over Luzon. Two weeks ago I heard that Gonzalo, who has a younger, brother at Notre Dame, was critically ill at Bagulo, but I had no chance to see him before leaving." 
MATHEMATICAL "REPORTS" 

'' Issue 7 of ,:the "Reports of a Mathe­matical Colloquium," a publication de­voted to mathematical research done at Notre Dame, was published in Hay. The "Reports" were begun in 1938 by Dr. Karl Menger, head of the Department of Mathematics, and the present issue con­tains various papers written by mm teaching and doing, research at Notre Dame. Hyperbolic and metric geometry and algebra of analysis are the subjects of eight of the nine papers contained in this issue. Both the "Reports" and the "Notre Dame Mathematical Lectures," a series of pamphlets published by the Department of Mathematics, have re­ceived wide distribution in mathematical circles and favorable reviews have been published in this country and abroad. 
ACS NOTRE DAME RECEPTION 
On April 10 more than 40 Notre Dame alumni and g^uests attended a ITniver­sity of Notre Dame reception in the Chart Room of the Hotel Claridge in Atlantic City. • All were then attending the American Chonical Society meeting, and the reception had been arranged by Dr. Frank Sowa, of Cranford, N. J., and Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, of Notre Dame's Department of Chemistry. Three new members of the faculty, Drs. Price, Doty and Burton, were introduced to the alumni present, and tentative arrangonents were made ' for future Notre Dame get-to-gethers at all ACS meetings, especially at the Chicago con­vention of the Society in September. 
:S:dmiral Nimitz af Notre Dame 
Adraircl  Nimitz  is greeted  at  the  South. Eehd  airport by  Admiral  Nimitz  and  Father  O'Donnell  broadcast  at  the  
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell,'C.S.C, presideiil-. Michael  T. Cum­ airport  over  WSBT,  South  Bend.  Joe  Boland,  '27,  is  the  
mins,  South  Bend  city  comptroller,  representing  Mayor  announcer.  
Dempsey,  and  Capt.'  J. Richard  Barry,  cbmmgnding  the  
naval units at Notre  Dame.  
feS^^-"^  

"The: ndval .units,  in  formation  at  the  campus  entrance,  
The  Admiral  reaches  the  campus  and  is  greeted  by  a  are inspected by the Admiral.  
large  throng  of  students  and  townspeople,  as  well  as  by  
the Notre Dame Band.  
•s«8?  m  

The horseshoe team of" Nimitz. and Mangan was beaten, 
Following the convocation and a reception. Admiral three games out of four, by a team composed of Frank Nimitz plays horseshoes back of St. Edward's Hall. His Leahy (above) and two different partners'. Bud Gartiseraiid partner was John Mangan, University chauffeur. Bill Vangen, both Pacific veterans. 






