The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
'939 ^oiwnencemenl 
• I) Lcfl (o right: Pcler C. Rcllls. LLD.. '39; Most. Rev. John F. Nnll. LLD.. 75.-Most Rev. Barnard J. Shcil. LLD..'39: Rev. John F. O'Hara. CS.C, 'I I : Frederic J. Fisher. LLD.. 39: mWom H. Harrison. LL.D.. 39. 
9 2) Miu Josephine BroTVnson receives Laelarc Medal from Fath­er O'Hara. 
•
 3) Left to right: Joseph B. i\fcClynn.'l2: Rev. T. A. CoebeU 

•S9:
 Hush A. Q-Donnell. '94. 


(South Bend Tribune picture) 
O 4) The four retmng professors. Left to right: Edisard J. Maurus, *93; Francis X. Ac^rmann^ A/^.. '04: Robert L. Greene: William 
L. Benilz. MM.E.. 'IL 

(South Bend Tribune picture) 
• 5) Carrying the flag to the flagpole after the Baccalaureate Mass. 
m 6) The Class of 1939, fac­ulty, relatives and friends, at the Commencement exercises in the o-omnasiam. 
Vol. 17 JUNE, 1939 No. 7 


Girrs 

The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
For the Rockne Memorial 

(Contributions entered from April 2G to June 20, 1939. inclusive.) 
Francis P. Adrian, Pleasantville. N. Y. S 25.00 John Galligan. Philadelphia. Pa-1.00 E. J. Mahoney, Rochester, N. Y. 25.00 
N. Armstrong, Philadelphia, Pa.. 1.00 Hon. William J. Graniield, '13, Julia Maxwell, Piqua, Ohio . 1.00 
Charles J. Acosta. New York City 1.00 Springfield, Mass. 100.00 E. W. Monnier, Los Angeles, C^alif, '. 1,00 Mrs. Franic Amann, Sidney, Ohio . 1.00 John W. Gaynor, Burlington, Vt. 5.00 Robt. M. Anderson, "83, CirclGvillc, O. 10.00 L. J. Gemon. Detroit. Mich. 50.00 Nicholas J. Areola, Pittston, Pa. 3.00 J. Norbert Gelson, '26, Brooklyn. N. Y, 25.00 Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee, Wis 3.00 
B. A. (Joode. Detroit. Mich. 1.00 Notre Dame Club of New York City 400.00 
10.00 

L. A. Geniesse, '24. Green Bay. Wis. Notre Dame Qub of New Haven, Ckmn. 100.00 
W. A. Baum. Forest Hills, N. Y. 10.00 Major John L. Griffith, Chicago, III.. 25.00 Notre Dame Club of Walter Buckley, '33, Watcrbury, Conn. 1.00 
Southwestern, Connecticut 53.00 

J. P. Burke, '25, Hockaway Beach, N. Y. 5.00 
W. L. NelT. '29, Mandan, So. Dak. 5.00 
P. A. Becikiewicz. '19, South Bend 5.00 Leo Heringer. '24. Chicago . 10.00 National Youth Flying Oubs, Chicago 25,00 
Marie Brccn, Philadelphia, Pa 1.00 Frank Hardart, '37, Forest Hills, N. Y. 25.00 Wilbur lu Ball. New York City 10.00 M. J. Hannon, Albany, N, Y. 10.00 
C. E. Broussard, '13, Ajrt.. Beaumont. Tex. 40.00 Gerald M. Hanrahan, South Bend 15.00 Mrs, J. Owens, Philadelphia, Pa, . 1.00 Donald Bucholi. '28, New York City __ 2.00 Marie Hickey. Philadelphia. Pa. 1.00 James O'Brien, Elmhurst, N. Y. _. 5.00 Al. Butler, '33, St. Albans, N. Y. 7.50 Mrs. P. Higgins. Philadelphia. Pa. 1.00 Vincent O'Neil. New York City . 5.00 Dr. Dan J. Bradles-,'2S, Amityiille, N.Y. 15.00 C. J. Heinle, Maplewood. N. J. S.OO Donal J. O'Brien. "29, Scarsdale, N. Y. 5.00 Bernard M. Burke, Newton. Mass. 1.00 Norman K. Haitr. Detroit, Mich. 5.00 Miss Alice G. BeMont, Cambridge, Mass. 1.00 Rose Horkey, Milwaukee, "Wis. 1.00 
C. C. Brumleve, '29, Dayton, O. 5.00 A. S. Horn, Cedarburg, Wis. 1.00 Mrs. M. Pic, Philadelphia, Pa. 1.00 
William P. Hearne, Chicago, HI. 1.00 Pasquale Pirchio, '25. South Bend 35.00 Poth Brewing (3o„ Philadelphia, Pa. . 10.00 
Ray Conley, ChicaRO ___~ X.OO Robert Conlej-, Chicago -_ 1.00 Frank J. Jenney, '33, New York City _ 10.00 James Conley, CHiicago __™. 1.00 Fred Jackson. New York City 1,00 Dr. U. J. Rothhaller, '28, South Bend _ 5.00 L«uis Chesnow, '23, Washington, D. C. 30.00 Stell J. Jokerst, Fort Wayne, Ind. 10.00 Rev, J. A. Rath, '08, Elmont, N. Y. _ 1.00 
A. B. Childs. Washington. D. C. 2.00 Francis H. Reilly, '32, Dorchester, Mass. 5.00 
M. A. Cullather. Mincrsville, Pa. 20.00 Joseph W. Crotty. '37. New York City 5.00 Louise R. Knowles. S. Orange. N. J. 
A. J. Collins, South Mermalls. Conn. — 5.00 Mr, & Mrs. James Karr, Joseph Starr, New York City 20.00 Mrs. Catherine Carroll. Philadelphia, Pa. 1.00 Milwaukee, Wis. 5.00 Oliver F. SchcU, '29, New York City __ 25.00 John Callahan, Philadelphia. Pa. —™—, 1.00 H. F. Klingman, Notre Dame 35.00 M. A. Sterback, Bridgeport, Conn. 50.00 John M. Curnm. Dearborn Hills, Mich, 5.00 Francis J. Keenan, '14, Di^con, HI. 2.00 Michael A. Street, Pittsfield, Mass. 10.00 Claire C. Cummings. Brooklj-n. N. Y. „ 5.00 Robert W. Kirwin. '35. John P. Shea, Brooklyn, N. Y. 5.00 
Eugene B. Gark. Buchanan. Mich. 25.00 Spring Valley, Minn. 13.00 Robert D. Shea, '22, New York City __ 2.00 Helen Crowley, Piqua. Ohio . 1.00 Rev. A. J. Kolanczyk, Frank Shapiro, '36, New York City 5.00 Maurice Carroll, '19, Kansas City, Mo. 150.00 Hamtramck. Mich. 5.00 A. J. Shiebler, '33, Brooklyn, N. Y. 5.00 Mrs. Frank Conroy, Newton. Mass. —_ 5.00 Raymond Kelly, Jr., '41, Detroit, Mich. 5.00 W. H. Shipman. Washington. D. C. 1.00 Mark E. Conroy, Newton, Mass. 1.00 Raymond Kelly, '15, Detroit, Mich. 5.00 LeRoy Schoch, Philadelphia, Pa 1.00 Kerrins T. Conroy, Newton, Mass. 1.00 Edward D. Kelly, '23, Emmetsburg, la. 10.00 Mrs. Bertrom Simons, Philadelphia, Pa. 1.00 
Charles E. Cusack, Boverlv Hills. CSilif. 10.00 Thomas C. Kelly, 'IS, Milwaukee. V/is. 1.00 Martin F. Shea. New York City 25.00 Eddie Cohen, New York City 2.00 Mr. & Mrs. R. E. Schaffstall. Anna Clauder, Milwaukee, Wis. . 1.00 Harrisburg, Pa. 5.00 
James Corrigan, '35. Milwaukee, Wis. 2.00 Kenneth F. Laws, *36, Lafayette, Ind_ 5.00 Henry T. Smithies, Springfield, III. 2.00 John E. Clauder, '34, Mihv.-iukee, Wis. 2.00 E. G. Lindemann, '24. Livermore, Ky. _ 15.00 
llaynard L. Cavanaugh. Chicago, III— 1.00 The Misses Larkins. Philadelphia. Pa. _ 1.00 Mrs. Frank Lange, Piqua. Ohio 1.00 
Frank Tomasko, Bridgeport, Conn. . 5.00 
Dr. T. A. Langan. Jersey City, N. J. _ 5.00 E. Traynor. Philadelphia, Pa. . 1.00 
R. L. Donoghue, '31, New Y'ork City — 10.00 Arthur F. Lamey. Havre, Mont. 2.00 Mrs.-Rose Tracey, Philadelphia, Pa. 1.00 Mrs. J. Davis, Upper Darby, Pa, 1.00 William Lynch. '33. Yonkers, N. Y. 5.00 
Anthony Vitacula, Youngstown, Ohio _ 1.00 Mrs. William C. Devenny, Mr. & Mrs. Oscar VanPuttc, 
Atlantic City. N. J. I.on Mishawaka, Ind. 10.00 
Daniel J. McNamara. (Thicago ____. 10.00 

Jack Davis. Philadelphia. Pa. 1.00 
John G. McKay, Indianapolis 5.00 

Mrs. J. E. Dwyer, Philadelphia, Pa. 1.00 
Frank Morrison, New York City 10.00 

Joseph Dilworth, Piqua, Ohio . 1.00 Rev. (3corge A. Walsh. Chicago . 10.00 
Harry Moss, '32, New York City _ 1.00 

Virginia Dilworth. Piqua. Ohio . 1.00 Ed. Waterhouse. Detroit . 2.00 
Dorothy Mayfield. New York City _ 1.00 

Julia Dilworth, Piqua, Ohio . 1.00 F. A. Wandell. New York City 1.00 
John J. Mulqueen. New York City". 10.00 

Chester Dean, Kansas City, Mo. _____ 150.00 Jack Werner. '32. New York City 1.00 
S. J. Miller, '25, Kokomo, Ind. . 10.00 

Terrence J. Dillon.'32, River Forest, III. 10.00 John M. Wilson, '11, New York Oty _ 25.00 
James McGoldrick. Philadelphia, Pa. 25.00 Mr.-Mrs. O. McGoldrick, Philadelphia, Pa. 25.00 Daniel DeRocco, Monessen, Pa. 1.00 Mrs. F. Marschalk, Beverly Hills, Pa. _ 1.00 Edward H. Waters. Newton, Mass. 1.00 
R. L. Donaghue. '31, New Y^ork City-25.00 Anthony C. Whelan, Waltham, Mass. _ 10.00 
Walter DeBaene, '29, Detroit ________ 3.00 William M. White, '21, Springfield, III. 5.00 
Chas. L. Murphy, West Newton, Mass, 1.00 

Nicholas Dreystadt, Detroit, Mich. 10.00 
John M. Montague, *23, Chicago 25.00 

H. A. Evans, Belleville, N. J. 10.00 
John P. Murphy, Jr,, Toledo, Ohio 10.00 

Alfred Eckerd. Washington. D. C. . 1.00 Yale University Athletic Association. 
Miss A. McGurk. Philadelphia, Pa. 1.00 
New Haven, Conn. 50,00 P. McGarity, Philadelphia, Pa 1.00 Mrs, McGormick. Glenolden, Pa 1.00 Mr. Markert, Philadelphia, Pa. . 1.00 

The Frances Shop. South Bend . 75.00 
S. A. Fuller, Chicago . 25.00 J. F. Zimmer, Cincinnati, Ohio 3.00 
Mrs. Mulhem, Philadelphia, Pa. 1.00 

I. Fractman, Philadelphia, Pa. 5.00 John R. Zerbst, '38, St. Joseph, Mo. _ 6.00 
Mrs. P. McGraaghan, Philadelphia, Pa. 1.00 

J. M, Fitzgerald, Brooklyn, N. Y. _ 1.00 E. C. Ziegler, Milwaukee, Wis. 5.00 
Harry Milkis, Philadelphia. Pa 5.00 Miss Ella Fccney, Philadelphia, Pa. l.OO Total new gifts _S 2.3T1.50 
R. L. Forbes. Mamaroneck. N. Y. — 1.00 
Eleanor McCloskey, Philadelphia, Pa. _ 1.00 Michael J. Flynn, Wilmette, HI. . 5.00 
Mrs. Frances McLain, Philadelphia, Fa. 1.00 
Previously reported . _ 253,188.96 

John McConnell. Brooklyn, N. Y. 1.00 Victor W. Fischer, '28, New York City 25.00 
Edward A. Fallon, '26, Brooklyn, N. Y. 25.00 
Mrs. J. Frank Martin (Collection) John P. Farr. '29. New York City 25.00 
Jamaica Estates, N. Y. 85.00 Grand total to date _$2S5,566.46 Col. Frank Fehr, '89, Louisville, Ky.__ 25.00 
Raymond W. Gudmcns. Cincinnati. Ohio 5.00 Frank W. Gainey, Buffalo, N. Y. 5,00 'CIA.A.^'J.C.

/^^ ;/ ^ 
JL Robert (ijldman, Brooklyn, N. Y. __ 2.00 Joseph Guiney, New York City . 1.00 Miss Mary Gallen. Phihidelphia, Pa 1.00 Mrs. A. Galligan. Philadelphia. Pa 1.00 Mrs. Thomas Galligan, Fhiladelph'ia, Pa. 1.00 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG.  75  The  mitgaiine  is  pulilbhed  from  October  to  June  inclusive  by  the  Alumni  Association  Member of tfie Americaa  
Editor WlLUAM R. DOOLEY,  76  of the University of Notre Dame, Notxe Dame, Indiana^ The subscription price is $2.00 8 year; the price of single copies is 23 cents. The annual alumni dues of $3.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1.  Alumni Council Member of NatX Catholic  
Managing  Edilor  1923,  at  the  post  office  at  Notre  Dame,  Indiana,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Alumni Federation  

Vel. 17 JUNE, 1939 No. 7 
Rockne Memorial Features Commencement 
Dedication Ceremonies, Large Graduating Class, Fine 
Addresses, Successful Class Reunions, Alumni Banquet, 

Packed Program, All Make For Usual Great Week-End 
The sun rose on Friday morning, actual outlay, which does not include its 25-Year Dinner with a few out­June 2, to iind the usual group of many things that are enjoyed unde. side guests, in the faculty dining anxious alumni parked in whatever other headings of expense. room. Colonel Walter Clements was campus hall a harried rector and the in charge of the local arrangements. 
Ceremonies Started May 16 still echoing footsteps of departing For the non-reunion crowds, Pro­undergraduates dictated. And the As a matter of fact. Commencement fessor Joseph J. Casasanta assembled sun went down on Sunday nighj, in 1939 started for the Alumni Asso­his able Band on the porch of the June 4, as an audience gathered in ciation on May 16. The Board of Main Building and shook both Quad­Washington Hall for the last event Directors met, discussed a number of rangle and Plaza with a delightful of the week-end, the presentation of problems, and adjourned to be guests concert. 

the Laetare Medal to Miss Josephine at the annual Senior-Alumni Banquet. 
At 8 P. M. in Washington Hall, the Brownson, Detroit. This is the banquet given in 1938 and University Theatre, under the direc­1939 for the graduating Class so that 

In between were packed three days tion of Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C, 
they might be free from the obligation 
of events that form annually a fitting '18, presented "On the High Eoad," a
of attending Commencement alumni 
culmination of the academic training one-act play by Anton Checkov. 
banquet, whic h relieved both the of the Senior Class. 
Class and the Dining Halls of a prob­The '34 Reunion As the Classes have grown, the pro­lem of growing proportions. Vice-At 9 P. M., local chairman Bob gram has grown in intensity. No President Joseph McGlynn addressed Cahill assembled the 5-year Class of longer are there the simple ceremon­the Class of 1939 on behalf of the As­1934 in the grand ballroom of the ies of shaking hands with the alumni sociation. William E. Dooley spoke Columbia Athletic Club for a party on the front porch, gathering them to the Class on the progress of Place­that featured Elmer Layden and self-into the old refectory for a feast, and ment, of which the '39 boys were prac­restraint, the latter caused by failure sending them to one of the halls for tically the first beneficiaries. Richard to identify the Class of 1934 with the a restless night. No longer is the O'Melia, Class president, spoke for Church's law concerning meat on Fri­Church adequate for the parents of the Class. James E. Armstrong, day. Most of the lads, however, out­graduates and the Washington Hall Alumni Secretary, presided . The lasted the law. It was a good party facilities enough for the Commence­President, Vice-President and Deans with a good crowd, and the thrill that ment crowd. of the Colleges were guests. 
comes with the first real get-together Move to Gymnasium Commencement week - end proper, 
of the Class that comes after gradua­the campus was in its usual beautiful 
tion. 
The University Gymnasium, pre­condition. Weather made two efforts 

pared for 6,000 guests, is now the Saturday morning saw the Class 
to interfere, but gave up gracefully. Day procession of the Seniors, their 
scene of hoth the Baccalaureate Mass and the Commencement Exercises. The golf course attracted its custo­first appearance of the week-end in mary large quota — campus eyes cap and gown. Washington Hall was 
Between the remaining Seniors, the having grown hardened to haber­
the scene of the exercises and the undergraduates who stay as members dashery that would have meant the award of prizes. of the organizations, teams, working Lake some years back. Similarly the Liter in the morning, when the sun staff, etc., and the returning alumni, pool of the Eockne Memorial was was also high, the Classes of 1929 10 of the 14 residence halls are com­opened to returning alumni all day. and 1934 met on Badin Field in what pletely filled with a scattering of res­And again, memories of the old "na­has become a traditional Softball idents in the remaining halls. tatorium" back of the Main Building battle between the 5 and 10 year took the boys through the new set-up 
Trafiic, programs, meals, informa­groups. The Alumni Office neglected 
with a sort of Wizard-of-Oz attitude. 
tion, etc., form problems that keep a to have its own auditors on hand, and 
Top that off -vvith the fact that the 
committee busy for several months the University's department of grad­
Old Infirmary was down and you had 
ahead. uate mathematics is still working on 
the boys hunting frantically for their the scores, but in the best tradition of And for the alumni alone the cost road maps. the State Department, the trophy was to the University for Commencement 
(Continued on Page 224) 

hospitality amounts to some $2,000 in At 7 P. M. the Class of 1914 held 



Dedication Completes Memorial Project 
University Finances Completion of Impressive Field-house; Participation of Alumni and Public Falls Far Short of Ultimate Cost of $650,000 Building 
Saturday, June 3, 1939, the Knute 

K. Eockne Memorial Fieldhouse was dedicated on the campus of the Unir versity of Notre Dame, in the pres­ence of the family of the late great Notre Dame director of athletics, and some 3,000 persons assembled for the event and for the program of the 95th annual commencement exercises of the. University. 
Coast-to-coast radio presentation of the program was made possible by the Mutual network, and the local fa­cilities of WSBT. 
Standing- at the west end of the new plaza, the Memorial, as pictures in this ALUJINUS show, presents a magnificent architectural tribute to one of the greatest of Notre Dame men. 
• Opened, in part, this Spring, it is even more significant that use has al­ready proved the merits of the build­ing as a living memorial. An average of 1,000 boys daily used the various facilities of the building in the devel­opment of that sound body that was so integral a part of Knute Eockne's philosophy of education, and life. Swimming pool, handball and squash courts, boxing and wrestling rooms, gymnasiums, sun-porch, sun-lamp and golf lockers have brought to the non­
. athlete a new era of happy, healthy recreation. This was the motive be-
MEMORIAL DEDICATION 

9
 1) The speakers at the dedica­tion: Left to riflht. Rev. John F. 0"Hara. C.S.C., '11; Major John L. GriiSlh: Capl. William Wood; Mas­ter of Ceremonies Arch Ward. *2I; Charles E. "Gus" Dorais, '14; Frank 

E.
 Hering.'98; Elmer F. Layden, *25. 

0
 2) The platform and the crowd at the dedication, with Gus Dorais at the microphone. 


e 3) Rev. Hugh O'Donnell. CS.C , M6. blessins the building, with Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, CS.C . Ml, as master of ceremonies. 
# 4) A close-up view of the front entrance to the Memorial. 
# 5) The swimming pool. ( A small­er pool for beginners is not shown.) 
9 6) The principal lounge room. 
# 7) The front view of the building. 
(Pictures 4'* 5. G and 7 from the South Bend Tribune.) 
hind the decision to erect this type of memorial, and it was edifying to re­port at its dedication that its objec­tive was established fact. 
Arch Ward, alumnus, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, who wrote publicity for Rock when he first took over the head coaching job at Notre Dame, was master of ceremonies at the dedication. 
Coach Dorais Speaks 

Principal speaker of the day was Charles E. "Gus" Dorais, director of athletics of the University of Detroit, teammate, roommate and always dose friend of Rock. Gus said, in part: 
"We are gathered here, old team­mates and friends, to make a feeble gesture in acknowledging a great man. • Football coaches as such are not in a position to add much to the world's progress or well-being. But you. Rock, burst all bounds and your memoiy of what you taught and ex­emplified made of you a beloved national figure and, better than that, a tremendous power for good among the people of this land. 
"We gather to honor you for what you are and have done. Rock, when they took you away and left so many of us who are blundering around, I wondered." Coach Dorais continued. 
"I know better now. Your great squads that taught your lessons so well have been magnified a thousand­fold. Your boys imbued with your great spirit have scattered to the far corners, carrj'ing your message. Your traditions carry on. 
"We, your old teammates, who 

have long basked in the radiance of 
your glorj-, are pi-oud of the fact of 
our associations with you. When you 
went hunting out of the skies your 
work had just begun. Your boys 
caught the torch and are holding it 
high." 
The program, beginning •with the 

playing of the national anthem by the 
Notre Dame band, centered around a 
platform built at the main entrance 
to the fieldhouse. 
A flag - draped photograph of the 

former coach topped the platform. 

Many Celebrities Present 

Rt. Rev. William Murphy, aged 83, Sandusky, Ohio, who officiated at the marriage of the Rocknes, paid his first visit to Notre Dame. Rev. Michael Shea, author of the "Notre Dame Vic­tory March," which spurred many a Rockne team to victory, came from Ossining, New York, to be present. 
Rev. John F. O'Hara, CS.C, pres­ident of Notre Dame, eulogized Rock­ne and his ideals. 
Major John L Griffith, Big Ten commissioner; Captain William Wood, of the United States Military Acad­emy, and Frank E. Hering, '98, first official coach at Notre Dame and now a trustee of the University, gave short talks on Rockne. The Moreau Sem­inary choir sang. 
Elmer L: Layden, '25, present di­rector of athletics at Notre Dame; said: 
"This is a proud moment in my life, to participate in the dedication of the Memorial to Knute Eockne, to whose kindly teachings and direction I owe a great deal. 
"It was a great philosopher, Aris­totle, who told us of the benefits of sports to both participants and spec­tators. Rock believed this precept and taught us the right way to play. In title, Knute Eockne was director of athletics and head football coach at Notre Dame; in fact, he was a great builder of American manhood for American Ijfe. 'A boy who hopes to be a good football player,' he said, 'must hav e brains, courage, selfT restraint, fine muscular co-ordination, intense fire of nervous energy and an unselfish spirit of sacrafice. He must live cleanly, he must develop the will to win so keenly that he can taste it. He must make fair play an obsession.' And yet, primarily, what Eock did was not to teach a few hundred men football, but to reach millions through football. The teams of Notre Dame became the teams of the people and 
Knute Eockne the most popular coach 
in America. 
"So to me this Memorial is a conr 

Crete appreciation of Rock and Ms 
memory, but in addition to this, there 
exists another vital living tribute to 
his name. I refer to the men he 
taught. Such men now in the ath­
letic field as Jim Phelan, Hunk An­
derson, Eddie Anderson, Charli e 
Bachman, Slip Madigan, Harry Stuhl­
dreher, Eip Miller, Jim Crowley, 
Noble Kizer, Prank Thomas, Prank 
Carideo, Buck Shaw, Rex Enright, 
Adam Walsh, Gus Dorais, Harry Mehre, Clipper Smith, Jack Meagher, Frank Leahy, Marty Brill, Larry Mullins, Joe Sheeketski, March y Schwartz, and Tom Conley. These men, transmitting his teachings through their boys who in turn teach other boys, will perpetuate the lessons of Eockne throughout the ages. These men comprise a living Memorial, a tribute to his outstanding ability and personality, which I am sure he would have enjoyed fully as much as this wonderful edifice which we today are dedicating for the use of the present and future Notre Dame men" 
Seated also on the platform were many teammates of Rockne, along with Mrs. Eockne, her four children and Miss Florence Rockne, a sister of the late coach. 
Introduced to the crowd by Mr. Dorais were William Ryan, Cleve­land; William Cook, Los Angeles; Luke Kelly, Boston; Chester M. Mc­Grath, St. Joseph, MicWgan; William 
A. Kelleher, Lorain, Ohio; Alvin Ber­ger, Fort Wayne, Indiana; Walter A. Clinnin, Chicago; Mai Elward, La­fayette, Indiana; Raymond J. Eichen­laub, Columbus, Ohio; Fred W. Gus­hurst, Denver; Al G. Feeney, Indian­apolis; Joseph B. Pliska, Chicago; and Bev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice-president of Notre Dame. 
Devoted to Recreation 
The $650,000 Memorial is one of the outstanding plants of its kind in the country. The Memorial adjoins the first tee of the William J. Burke-Notre Dame 18-hoIe golf course. A special room is provided in the building for golfers' lockers and a special under­pass has been constructed so that players may enter the course without crossing one of the campus roadways. 
One of the main features of the permanent tribute to Rockne is the 75-foot swimming pool, with a 14­foot beginners' pool. Construction of the Gothic structure, which is 182 by 210 feet, was somewhat delayed last spring and summer when workers dug below the level of St. Mary's lake and water started to fill the swim­ming pool excavation before the walls and floor were poured. Pumps "were used to keep the water at a lower level while the concrete dried. 
Galleries for Spectators There are 12 courts for handball and squash with a spectators' gallery near the ceiling. The pool also has a good-sized gallery. The top floor contains two regula­tion-sized basketball courts, whic h this year were used for the senior ball. Near the basketball courts are doorways to the roofs of the handball court section of the memorial. These roofs serve as sun-bathing "beaches" for students and, at the senior ball, served as open air restaurants. Also of note is a "sun bath" room. Almost 50 students may lie on cots under lamps at the same time. An official times the "exposures" of the students so that no one will be burned by over-exposure. There are also general exercise rooms with rings, bars, horses, rails, weights, and othe r apparatus and there are quarters for boxing and wrestling and courts for badminton, tennis and volley ball. A large num­
ber of lockers take care of all stu­dents. Wired for Broadcasting 
The building is wired for radio broadcasting and also is on the reg­ular bell circuit of the University. 
The memorial feature of the build­ing is contained in the immense foyer which rises the height of the three-story ediiice This room will contain the Universitj' athletic trophies and the "book of memory" listing names of all who contributed to the me­morial. 
About three months ago Thomas 
E. Mills, then assistant professor of speech, was appointed director of the memorial. 


Gifts Only Disappointment 
In the entire planning and con­struction of the Knute Eockne Me­morial, the only disappointment was the response to the opportunity for alumni and friends to participate in this Memorial. After his death in 1931, friends of Knute Rockne, in­cluding alumni and others, asked the University to permit the erection of a suitable memorial. The request was granted and the solicitation of funds begun. 
Because of the depression, active work on the campaign was suspended after only $135,000 was raised. In 1937, to permit the long - cherished completion of the Memorial as it had been planned in its present form, the University announced that it would contribute $200,000 and would wel­come a similar amount contributed by friends and alumni. The Alumni 
(Continued on Pace 216) 
(Chicago Tribune Pliotos) 

Left: Football leanunates of Knute Rockne attended dedication of Memorial to him. .Left to right in first row—Ma! Elward. '16; Bill Kelleher, M5; Father Hugh O'Donnell, '16; Gus Dorais. '14; and Luke Kelly, '16. Second row: Bill Ccwk, '16; Fred Gushurst, '14; Ray Eichenlaub. '15; Alvin Berger, '15; and Frank E. Hering, *98, caplain and coach in 18%. Right—the Rockne family was present. Left to right: Florence Rockne, sister of the coach, Knute Rockne, Jr., Wiliiam D. Rockne, Jack Rockne, Mrs. Rockne and Jeanne Rockne. 
June, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 211 


The Commencement Address 
By William H. Harrison 

Vice-President and Chief Engineer of American Telephone 
and Telegraph Company Characterizes Engineering as 
Tremendous Social Force in Our Modern Civilization 
When Father O'Hara honored me by extending this privilege to talk to you he suggested I stress engineering, since in the past few years science, commerce and law have been the Com­mencement themes. So with due apol­ogies to the men of the arts, engineer­ing it shall be. 
Like all successful social move­ments, engineering embraces the ori­gin, cultivation and integration of powerful forces. 
To explore its beginnings—analyze its growth—depict its practices—and symbolize its meaning at length would hardly be in keeping with the day. But I do want to try to establish the claim it has to a favoied position i-mong the professions. 
Simple Human Objectives 

Surrounded by a morass of selfish­ness, civilization has ever struggled toward simple human objectives. In primitive society instincts of self-preservation and of satisfying phy­sical needs were the sole motives for action. With the development of civ­ilized society, however, the need for order and protection, iipalth, and the satisfactions of spiritual and intellec­tual living have created the profes­sions of law, medicine, teaching, and theology, dedicated to the use of learn­ing in the service of men. But throughout all history, without record of beginning, there have existed three other powerful forces built around human needs: 
The urge to create; 

The desire to lift the burden of work; 
The impulse to spread the results , of creative eifort to the benefit of mankind. 
It is these forces that constitute the origin and birth of the artisan, the engineer, and the economist. 
Much is recorded of the work of engineers and of their influence on social progress. 
Turning rapidly the pages of his­tory from the Stone Age to Medieval Europe, there come to mind the Tower of Babel, the Pyramids, the Parthe­non, and the roads, bridges, and aque­ducts of the Roman Empire. These suggest to the imagination the impor­tant influence of engineering on such ancient cultures as those of Baby­lonia, Egypt, Greece, and Rome. 

Use of Physical Knowledge 

More subtle and deep in its influ­ence is the rising of such personalities as Thales, Pythagoras, Euclid, Archi­medes, Hipparchus and others, who sought in the depths of nature's se­crets, an understanding and systema­tized use of physical knowledge. They are not perhaps the most popularly kno\vn figures of their times, but their constructive and fundamental think­ing was of more permanent import­ance to the world than the meteoric careers of men like Alexander, Han­nibal, and Caesar, who, in contrast, by ably organizing the resources available to them, developed to a high point the art of acquiring power and wealth, for the most part by taking them away from others. 
Probably the first consciousness of power of engineering and, consequent­ly, the first professional unity among engineers, arose out of military activ­ity. In English history the word "engineering" was first applied "to the operations of those who construct-
WlLLIAM H. HAKRISON 

ed engines of war and executed works intended to serve military purposes." "The Domesday survey of A. D. 1086 includes one 'Waldivus Ingeniator" who—^was probably William the Con­queror's Chief Engineer." 
Identification or recognition of those so engaged as military engi­neers, as we think of them to-day, is exemplified in the organization of the "Corps de Genii" founded in 1690 by Vauban, a French engineer renowned for his skill in designing fortresses and methods of attack. Another such corps, rich in tradition, is the "Royal Engineers" of England formed about a half century later. 
While engineers at first were mili­tary men, spectacular results of the union of civil and military projects are seen in the Roman highways and aqueducts. But the direction of wide­spread engineering effort to purely civil affairs, so as to contribute to the economic welfare and protection of people in social and political groups, rather than to their destruc­tion, does not become evident until the beginning of the Seventeenth Century. 
Modern Scientific Knowledge 

Then came a 200-year period of great significance. In the tumult of the Renaissance and Reformation, the religrious and political wars, the chang­ing political and social life in Europe, and the migration of oppressed groups to America, the march of man's intel­lect into the unknown took form. For in this period is found the advent of modem scientific knowledge coming largely from the study of astronomy, mathematics, mechanics and chemis­trv. and, to name but a few, exem­plified by the life work of such men as— 
Galileo, Keoler. Descartes, Newton, Pascal. vonGnericTce, Dalton, Caven­dish, Gauss, Coulomb and Galvani. 
Here for the first time in history, progress held in its crucible the struc­tural and nractical arts of the past centuries, the newlv discovered facts of science—^the techniques of mathe­matics in their formative stage,—and the beginnings of industrial organiza­tion. The direction of all these forces toward the upbuilding of man. cry­stallized into a professional activity 
and led to the formation of definite professional groups. Among the iirst 
•wasthe Institution of Civil Engineers estahlished in England in 1818. In its charter engineering was defined in words which show its origin and its scope at that time: 
"Art of directing the great sources of power in nature for the use and convenience of man .. . as applied in the construction of roads, hridges, ports, moles, lighthouses. . . ." 
With these influences at work it was almost inevitable that the first half of the Nineteenth Century should witness those great engineering de­velopments which placed practically unlimited power at the disposal of mankind, and thus opened the door to huilding the world of to-day. 


Industrialization and Urbanization 
Here in America—in a new nation, unhampered by class distinctions, and relatively free religiously, politically and industrially to work out its des­tiny, these forces found boundless op­portunities. With the developments 
•in manufacture and industry came industrialization an d urbanization. Power was needed, rail transportation had only begun, and modem commun­ications and power transmission were unknown. From 1820 to 1870 the proportion of our population engaged in industry, and the professions, in­creased three-fold. 
This same period saw education in Europe reaching into the scientific field, as shown by the organization of the technical schools of Germany, the scientific or nolvtechnic schools of France, and the universities and the "Guild" or mechanics institutes of England. 
As one would expect, the history of technical education in this country paralleled that of industrial develop­ment. Colored by the importance of spiritual and linguistic instruction, education at first was almost entirely non-technical in character, although elementary science was soon intro­duced. Exceptions to the general rule are the Military Academy, its formar tion a necessitj' following the Revolu­tion; Rensselaer, a ci\il engineer­ing institution established coincidently with the British Institution of Civil Engineers, and the Mechanics Insti­tutes, an outgrowth of the considera­tion by the guilds for the advance­ment of the sons of mechanics. 
But until about the middle of the century there were only five of our present engineering schools in exist­ence. The passage of the Morell Act in 1862, establishing Land Grant col­leges of mechanical arts, greatly stiinulated this development. In the decade following, the number of engi­neering schools increased to 70, near­ly half the present number. It is 

The N o t r e Da fn e A I u mn us 
noteworthy that engineering was in­troduced at Notre Dame as early as 1873. To-day approximately 10 per cent of the male college students in America are studying engineering, and many other, of course, are spe­cializing in science. 
This most casual reference to his­tory makes it clear that engineering is a tremendous social force, and a most important influence in the devel­opment of modem civilization. Al­though much of the spectacular may be attributed to it, its nature and or­igin are wedded to the common work of the world and to the toil of men in business and in industry. It is dif­ficult to characterize engineering as conforming to any pattern of educa­tional philosophy unless it be that process by which knowledge and wis­dom are transformed so as to enhance the skills of life. 
So much for the past—^what of the future? 
Experience shows beyond all doubt that the destiny of people bound to­gether by ties of common knowledge and proper codes of action can best be served by united effort. All the professions bear witness to this truth. But whatever real value such groups may have is shown by their social effect—by their contributions to the well-being of mankind—and by these things alone. 
History will doubtless look back upon the present as a period of tur­moil and distress, of readjustment and reorganization. In these times of confusion — with the sense of inade­quacy, fear, and intolerance which goes with it — there is a great pre­mium on the use of reason devoid of all prejudice. The future of man­kind, as I see it, therefore, depends on the ability of discerning minds, capable of clear and logical thinking, to create out of the present confusion a constructive course of conduct.which will bring reassurance to the dis­turbed and disillusioned. 


Contribution of Engineering 
It is fair to ask whether engineer­ing in the professional and collective scope of its activity can contribute to this end. There is good reason to believe that it can. There is power in the collective and individual character of professionally minded engineers. For the most part their reasoning is intellectually honest, tempered b y controlled experience an d inquiry, the fruits of which are knowledge and the subtle and immeasurable power of discrimination. Knowledge and the power of discrimination "will never cease to be of inestimable and lasting value to mankind. Then too, the application of a constantly ex­panding knowledge of the physical 
June, 1939 

world to man's needs opens a vista of continued and broadened service. 
Helping in the social adjustment of man to his rapidly changing environ­ment is a challenge—as well as a re­sponsibility and a privilege—^to every well-balanced engineer, and I am con­fident that the challenge will be met. 
In saying this I am mindful that to-day, as in the past, there are some who question the value of both sci­ence and engineering and attribute to them unemployment, and other couses of present day social disorder. One writer characterizes this point of view "as the spirit of materialism which has conditioned modem men to accept a compromise with decency." 
It is not without significance that history reveals these as the fruits of prosperity and selfishness long before civilizations were conscious of mech­anization. The fact that the moral and spiritual backbone of society has never been stiffened to resist the temptations of prosperity cannot reas­onably be laid to physical sciences. 
After all is said and done, however, idealism, which deals with remote consequences, must be tempered by the realism of the immediate, and I want to talk with you briefly about the road ahead. 
I know you will forgive me if I first tell yon how much I cherish the honor that is mine to-day. I am grateful beyond expression, and with it all, am very humble, for despite the gener­our words you heard to-day, I know full well that I am here simply be­cause of circumstances of opportun­ity—opportunity present only in free enterprise—and you need no remind­er that free enterprise finds expres­sion nowhere except in a true democ­racy. 
The Road Ahead 
Looking back over the road of op­portunity I have traveled and casting it up to the light of tomorrow, I won­der about the road over which your generation is to travel. I wonder the more because you who stand in the threshold of business careers will shape the future of my generation as well as your own. 
Those of us whose life \york has been in the industrial field have seen technical and theoretical genius so ef­fectively combined with capacity for adaptation and application, in an era of free enterprise, as to give a civi­lization which the boldest of men could not have visualized even as late as the turn of the century—there is mechanical power beyond the compre­hension — over-night transcontinental transportation — the automobile .— world-wide instantaneous transmis­sion of human voice — radio broad­
(Continued on Page 2-13) 

June, 1939 Th e Notre Dame Alumnus 


The Baccalaureate Sermon 
By Most Rev. Bernard J. Sheil, D.D., Senior Auxiliary Bishop of Chicaso 
Noted Catholic Youth Organizer Dwells on "The Teacher of the Ages: The University of the World"; 
Emphasizes Vast Task of Reshaping Moral 
On this great day of academic tri­umph, in this consecrated home of higher education, hallowed by so many memories, it seems appropriate to speak of the great Educator of the Ages, the University of the World; a University which does not derive her charter from any state or nation, but from Him Who could truly say of Himself — "All power is given unto me in heaven and on earth." The scope of her teaching charter is nei­ther limited by national boundaries nor restricted by any measurable span of years. This amazing charter is expressed in terms of such simplici­ty, brevity and clarity that no one can mistake its meaning; in terms of such majesty, grandeur and compre­hension that it must forever remain the greatest document of its kind ever issued. "Go ye, therefore, and teach all nations—teaching them to obser\'e all things whatsoever I have com­manded you. And behold I am with you all days even to the consumma­tion of the world." 

Unbridled Superlatives 

I am quite well aware, my dear friends, that unbridled superlatives can rarely be employed with justice or propriety to describe anything which falls within the range of hu­man experience. I am also keenly alive to the strict laws of truth and sobriety of expression, of modesty and moderation imposed upon every man who speaks in the presence of grave scholars and august dignitaries such as those who surround me this morning. Nevertheless I venture to affirm without qualification or reserve that no event recorded in human his­tory is better calculated to arouse the attention of thoughtful minds or to excite the astonishment of every in­telligent observer than the scene so vividly presented to us by the words I have just quoted. . . "AH power is given to me in heaven and on earth. Go ye, therefore, and teach all nations, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded. And behold I am vnih you all days even to the consummation of the world." 
Consider, my dear friends, what were the apparent facts in the case from the point of view of a thought­ful and intelligent pagan of the time. There is first a young Nazarene car­penter who had not a day's schooling in His life, who had neither name nor family connections, who had no so­cial prestige or political power, who eked out a bare subsistence by the daily toil of His hands, who went about preaching a doctrine which was scandalous and blasphemous to the Jews and unintelligible folly to the Gentiles. He had gathered about him a little band of Galilean fishermen, certainly more illiterate than himself; men who could contribute nothing to the success of His cause, not even the zeal and courage of fanaticism; men who were ready to desert Him at the first threat of danger. 

To the haughty Roman patrician, who was such a keen student of forces and agencies which were likely to exercise a potent influence in shap­ing the v.-orld's history, such were the men in turbulent and despised Pales­tine who were talking their visionary schemes of a new kind of world con­quest. To him they were merely a band of deluded rustics who might in­deed excite his pity, but could not 
BISHOP SHEIL 


 World 
command his respect, and still less arouse his apprehension. 
But what was proposed to this little group of Galilean fishermen? What mission were they commanded to accomplish? What was the nature and extent of the enterprise to which they were committed? My dear friends, never before in all the storied ages of mankind's history had any­thing so colossal, so transcendent in its scope and magnitude, been con­ceived by the human mind or the cre­ative imagination. They were com­manded to lift the moral world from its hinges with their naked hands and to change the course of the ages. The whole world was the far-flung battle­field on which they were to challenge the allegiance of the assembled na­tions in the name of the Master; and until the heavens should be rolled up like an ancient parchment and time should be no more, there was to be neither surrender, truce nor cessation in the mighty conflict they were sent to wage. 
Task Was Stupendous 

Theirs was not the comparatively simple task of reshaping the political map of the world; of pulling down decrepit dynasties and setting up new empires; of reducing vast multitudes to civil and social bondage and of making them tributary to the-wealth and aggrandizement of despoti c rulers. All these things had been ac­complished a thousand times before their day and would be accomplished again. They sought nothing less than to reshape the thoughts of the human mind; to create new objects for the aspirations of the human heart, and new ideals of worth and excellence for the human soul. They would make men love what they had hitherto hated; revere what they had hitherto despised and worship what they had thus far profaned. They would set new stars of faith and hope and love in the firmament of human life by which from henceforth the ship of human 
destiny must chart its course. They were to be always and everywhere the vanguard in the conquering array of Jesus Christ, to storm the citadels erected by sin and passion, ignorance 
214 The Notre Dame A.lumnus June. 1939 
and prejudice along all the shores of the lonely seas and across the vast plains of wide-stretching continents, in the quiet seclusion of fertile val­leys and amidst the throbbing life of populous cities. They were to sow with lavish hands the fruitful seeds of peace and enlightenment, healing and benediction. "Freely ye have re­ceived, freely give." Theirs the mis­sion to enkindle the light of a quench­less hope in hearts which had known only the darkness of despair, to sus­tain the drooping courage of the faint-hearted, to speak words of cheer and comfort to the sorely tried and the afflicted, to lift the aspirations of men above the fleeting, perishable things of time and sense and make them realize that God and the human soul are supreme. They were to lift up a fallen and degraded race from the dust of humiliation and to set upon the brow of humanity a diadem of fadeless glory. 
To Walk Among Stars 
"Teach them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you." Teach every child of Adam that his destiny is not to grovel in the slime like the beasts that perish, but to walk amongst the stars as the Son of God. Teach them to know and to believe with an abiding faith that they can make themselves worthy of a seat amongst the immortals. They may not be able like a Michael Angelo to erect those marvels of architecture which survive the lapse of ages and fill succeeding generations with ad­miration and wonder, but they can do something immeasurably greater. They can make their own souls the temples of the living God, temples where His glory dwelleth ever, tem­ples which He fills with the m^ajesty of His own divine presence, temples which cannot decay whilst time lasts or eternity endures. They may not be able, like a Raphael, to make the canvas live with the forms of en­chanting beauty and loveliness, but they can do something immeasurably greater. They can engrave upon the imperishable substance of their own souls not merely the sweet, gracious forms of lovely madonnas and the seraphic figures of glorified spirits, but the living image of the infinite and eternal God. They may not be able like a Shakespeare to create im­mortal dramas, which scale all the heights and sound all the depths of human emotion; but they can do something immeasurably greater . They can attain a sublimity of per­fect manhood and womanhood to which the genius of a thousand Shakespeares could never do justice. They can make themselves the broth­ers of Christ, the sons of the eternal Father, the heirs of an immortal in­
heritance. 
When the Nazarene carpenter as­sembled His little following of Gali­lean fishermen upon the mountain side of Judea; when He issued to them His world embracing mandate-^"Go­ing, therefore, teach ye all nations" —^here are some of the things they were sent to accomplish; here is the profound and far-reaching transfor­mation they were commanded to effect in the thought, the life, and the des­tiny of the race; here was the sweep­ing and amazing revolution they were expected to carry to a successful issue amongst all the children of men until the last syllable of recorded time. For anything approaching it, in the magnitude of its conception, in the boldness and daring of its an­ticipation, in the confident assurance of its ultimate achievement, you will search in vain through all the records of mankind. 
No human resources, however vast, could be adequate to such a task. No human genius, however brilliant and powerful, could arouse these sodden people, drunk with the wine of sen­suality, from the lethargy of death. When vain philosophies hr.d frozen the fountains of inspiration in the human mind and withering doubts had dried up the streams of benefi­cent love in the human heart; when deadly passions and monstrous vices, stalking abroad in the light of day, unashamed and unafraid, had extin­guished the last spark of spiritual and moral life in the human soul; when human life had been made into a wilderness and a desert where^no goodly thing could thrive, what human agencies could infus e the breath of life into the moldering ashes? What human power could light anew the torch of faith in hearts which were as cold as the marble of a tomb? Or reldndie the fires of a holy love in souls as insensible as the dust? 


What Was Left? 
But what then? Was there noth­ing left but to close the doors of de­spair upon the human race? Had the sun of hope been extinguished forever in the sky of human destiny? Was the great mission entrusted to the apostles a foolish an d impossible chimera which must be abandoned. No! a thousand times no! It was as­sured of success and perpetuity be­forehand because it was founded not upon the feeble resources of human power, not upon the poor devices of human wisdom, but upon the infinite power and wisdom of .God. Before the Jewish Sanhedrin, Gamaliel had put the alternatives for all times— "If this work be of men, it will come to naught, but if it be of God you cannot overthrow it." 
The great commission — "Going, therefore, teach ye all nations" was not issued by a mere man, but by Him to whom all power had been given in heaven and on earth. The apostles were not to teach in their own name and by their own author­ity, but in the name and by the au­thority of the Master who had sent them. Their voice was to be so truly the authentic voice of Christ that for all the future ages of the world it must command the same respect, rev­erence and obedience as the living voice of Christ Himself. "He that heareth you, heareth me and he that despiseth you, despiseth ma" From henceforth they would speak with all the majesty, the dignity and com­manding power of ambassadors of God. They would carry in their hands credentials from the court of heaven, signed and sealed by God Himself. They would perpetuate on earth the work and mission of Jesus Christ— "as the Father hath sent me so also do I send you. And behold, I am with you all days even to the consumma­tion of the world." 

The Teaching Ministry 

That august body of teachers upon whom the mantle of the Apostles had fallen, who possess by right divine all the authority and power, all the rights and prerogatives of the Apos­tles themselves is the teaching min­istry of the Catholic Church. To all of them no less than to the Apostles, Christ addressed the momentous words "As the Father hath sent me so also do I send you. Go ye, there­fore, and teach all nations. And be­hold I am with you all days even to the consummation of the world." 
If these words do not guarantee the perpetuity and authority of this body of teachers, if they do not authorize them to teach in the name and by the authority of Jesus Christ, then words have lost all intelligible meaning and logic has become a babbling idiot. 

Line of Spiritual Descent 

Peter and Paul, James and John, Andrew and Philip have passed away, but their work and mission go on for­ever. They were no more divinely commissioned, they were no more truly the ambassadors of Christ; they had no more authority to teach than the last Bishop consecrated or the last priest ordained. By an im­broken line of spiritual descent they span the ages and exercise the same divine office in the twentieth century as their predecessors exercised in the first 
Nations rise and fall, powerful em­pires flourish for a time and then de­cay; brilliant dynasties appear upon the horizon of history in a blaze of 
(Continued on Page 231) 

June, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Four Veteran Professors Retired 
Ackermann, Maurus, Benitz and Greene, Represent­
ing To 
Commenceraent in 1939 recorded one historic event never previously a part of Notre Dame ceremonies, but marking the maturity of the Univar­sity. This was the official retirement of a group of professors whom years and health have brought to the end of long and illustrious teaching careers. 
Francis X. Ackermann 
Professor Fi-aneis X. Ackermann was retired during the last academic year. He came to Notre Dame in 1887. Both his father and his uncle had spent years at Notre Dame, part of their work being the old paintings of the various famous cathedrals that dotted the walls of the old re­fectories, no w 

FRAXCIS X. ACKEIUIAXN 
the general of­fices. Professor Ackermann himself restored these paintings in recent years. To most alumni he will be remembered as the genial but digni­fied man who lived on the third floor of the Administration Building and taught mechanical drawing in the great room on the fourth floor of the same building. When the Gushing Engineering Building was constructed the drawing room was moved there and, for the fii*st time in many years, Professor Ackermann had to be sep­arated from his work by the growing length of the new campus. 
It would be bard to catch the spirit of affection and fun and loyal­ty and teaching ability and over all of Notre Dame better than in a trib­ute in verse written by Rev. Thomas 
E. Burke, C.S.C., '07, for a dinner given for Professor Ackermann last Pall. 
FIFTY YEARS AGO 
It was fifty years apo That a dashinfr Romeo Started teaching: Bnjrfneers at Notre Dame: He was not so bi? a noise In the world of college boys. 
But the South Bend girls were happy when 
he came. 

 178 Years of Teaching, End Active Careers; 
 Remain As A Guiding Group In Their 
He taught drawing and he knew 
How to train the Freshman crew 
In the various degrees of lights and shades; 
But his students used to say 
That his greatest asset lay 
In the way he drew the eligible maids. 
Every pretty girl in town Put on her decollete gown AVhen she heard that Frank was going to the 
Bend: They all smiled their sweetest smile In an effort to beguile This fair Romeo, and make of him a friend. 
Frank had cleverness and dash 
And the girls loved his mustache. 
And they said: "We bet the kiss he gives you 
tickles!" They walked with him on the street And were very coy and sweet. But he dropped them at the door of Louis 
Nickers. 
Some invited him to dine 
When he couldn't quite decline. 
And they kept him up till very late at night; 
But he always shook his head 
When they said he ought to wed. 
For, like Ferdinand, the bull, he wouldn't fight. 
We still hear of girls who say Frank proposed to them one day And was .ill set to be married in the spring; But the rumor is denied That he ever sought a bride. Or ever gave a lady-friend a ring. 
He had seen his friends from school Sink in Alatrimony's pool. And come up all limp and wet and out of gas; And he never auite could see The sublime felicity Of a permanent attachment to a lass. 
He could go home to his room And enjoy the quiet gloom. He could the speed the evening in his stock­
ing feet; *" • ' There was no one to get sore When he threw things on the iloor. And to tell him when and what he ought 
to eat 
No one pushed him out of bed In the early daw*n, and said: "Go down stairs, you lazy lout, and make a 
fire;" He need not stay up at night Playing bridge to be polite. Of to pacify some scolding woman's ire. 
When he got his monthly pay There was no one there to say: "I must have a part of that to buy cosmetics"; And he need not walk the iloor "When a brat began to roar— That was never Frank's idea of athletics. 

 Fields 
When he happened home each night And snapped on the bedroom light. There was no one waiting there to smell his 
breath; He had no need to pretend He was up with a sick friend. And to talk about the suddenness of death. 
He was nice to all the frails And he listened to their tales. And he even went ^vith them to local shows; But he simply wasn't there When they threw out the old snare. For he didn't like the price of woman's hose. 
And as the golden years fled hy You could hear the widows sigh: "It's a pity the Professor will not bitel" But he hated family strife So he lived the single life. For, like Ferdinand, he never learned to fight. 
Edward J. Maurus 
This Commencement, Father O'Hara 

announced that three more of the be­loved Old Guard had ended full-time teaching— Professor Ed­ward J. Maurus, Professor Wil­liam L. Benitz, and Professor Robt. L. Greene. All, he said, will not be entirely lost to the stu­dent body, but 
EDWABD J . MAURUS 

will remain near Notre Dame in a guiding, inspiration­al capacity for their departments. 
Professor Maurus was graduated from Notre Dame in 1893 with a 
B.S. degree. He remained, doing graduate work and teaching, and re­ceived his M.S. in 1895. He stayed on then, as teacher of mathematics, and became head of the department in the College of Engineering, as the greater Notre Dame took shape. 
That is the academic record. It could be augmented with statistics of his classes, with pointing to success­ful engineers of his teaching, etc. But nothing statistical tells a story like his. It would not include the de­manding, but always kindly, person­ality who saw in his students, not seat numbers or guinea pigs for his own experiments, but young, eager boys, in each of whom there was an 
216 The Notre Dame Alumnus June. 1939 
ambition and a hope and a potential­ity. He treated each boy as an indi­vidual, arid worked with the kindness, with the interest and with the disci­pline of a father. And for many years, until his marriage a few years ago, his tower room in Sorin Hall was a haven and an oracle for his boys, with an influence extending far be­yond the classroom. During 46 years he had an opportunity to tire of his teaching, to look upon new students w^ith lessening interest. It was not in his make-up. And as the physical effort has increased with failing health, it has been compensated by the still f resli fires of personal enthu­siasm that have never been quenched. It was reassuring to know that all these things beyond the class-hour and the text-page will not he lost to the boys who are following the famil­iar footsteps of the students of more than four decades. 
William L. Benitz 
Almost parallel with the career of 

his fellow teacher has been the 43­year teaching career of AVil­liam Logan Ben­itz, newly elect­ed honorary president of the Alumni Associa­tion. Coming to Notre D ame from Cornell in 1896, Professor Benitz later be­came head of 
WILLIAM L. BENITZ 

the department in his field, mechanical engineering. By profession and by marriage—Pro­fessor Benitz married a daughter of the late Judge Timothy Howard, one of the glorious figures in Notre Dame history—^he was soon an integi-al part of Notre Dame. In the careers of both Professor Benitz and Professor Maurus, as many readers look hack on the humble equipment and build­ings in which their work was done, the old storj' of a Universitj- consist­ing of the student on one end of the log and Mark Hopkins on the other comes to mind. These men blended the elements of professional skill— an d Professor Benitz contributed many practical counsels to profes­sional projects—^\vith those intangi­bles of personality, of inspiration, of professional pride in teaching, and, above all, of a love and loyalty for Notre Dame, which have made the laymen's chapter in the history of the 
University one of which all Notre Dame may he proud. Three sons have been graduated to strengthen the ties between Professor Benitz and Notre Dame, which, in fact, is his own University bv \'irtue of an M.M.E. in 1911. 
Robert L. Greene 
Professor Robert Lee Greene came 
to the University in 1902, after 10 
years of experi­
ence following 
his graduation 
from Ohio State 
University in 
1892. He was 
not even then 
without Notre 
Dame back­
ground, as his 
brother. Pro­
fessor Jerome 
Greene of the 
BoBEirr Lu GREENE Notre Dame faculty, had already won wide acclaim for his wireless experiments on the Notre Dame campus. Professor Rob­ert Greene became head of the de­partment of pharmacy, at one time one of the most active of the Univer­sity's courses. Five years ago, the work of the department became so extensive that Professor Greene was succeeded as department head by Pro­fessor Lawrence Baldinger. Com­plications in departmental require­ments by outside standardizing agen­cies and the changing trends in the field have caused the University to announce that the department will be discontinued as soon as the present students majoring in the field are graduated. Professor Greene has long been an active member of the facul­ty, academically and socially. His hobby of diet was a traditional part of the faculty tables of the Old Re­fectory'. He contributed a fine family life and a cultural influence to the city of South Bend. 
These men who are retiring are not men whose names have appeared in sensational headlines They have not led fanciful movements or ex­pounded attention - catching theories. They have not filled their professional journals with profoun d treatises. They have not spent long hours on train and lecture platform. Theirs has been the humble life based on the conviction that teaching is itself a profession, and that its first obliga­tion is to the young people who en­trust themselves to the teacher. 
Nothing the ALUMNUS can say can, of course, come even close to paying adequate tribute of many generations of alumni to these men who have amassed such a grand total of service to Notre Dame and to Notre Dame men. Many boys who never had any of these men in class, have profited from the strength of tradition that they have given to the whole life-stream of Notre Dame. 
Theirs has been, as we think of a great sermon of a great priest and a great Notre Dame man, by outstand­ing example, the true "modesty of culture." 



MEMORIAL DEDICATED 
(Continued from Page 210) 
Association and a number of non-alumni were enlisted to work for the completion of this second fund. 
In the meantime construction was begun on the Memorial, and to pre­serve its facilities and its architec­
. tural beauty, the cost was increased considerably as construction prog­ressed. Response to the request for financial support was not widespread. 
The accompanying chart of alumni participation shows only the number in each Class participating as against the number in the Classes who were asked to participate. In the two to­tals lies a large part of the answer to the failure of the alumni participa­tion to net a more favorable return. From the beginning, emphasis was placed o n widespread participation rather than on large gifts. It was the hope of those who planned the Memorial that it would represent the gifts of the many friends of Knute Rockne. 
Today, in the Memorial foyer there is a card file, from which will be taken the names for the pennanent Book of Memorj'. There are only 11,853 cards in the entire file, repre­senting the entire number of con­tributors to the Memorial from both the first and second campaigns, and representing everyone whose name is on record for any gift no matter how small. 
Of this number only 1,882 are alumni, approximately 10 per cent of the Notre Dame men who received requests for participation in the Me­morial. 
That is why, despite the recognized economic difficulties of the entire period of the Memorial project, there i s considerable disappointment i n alumni participation, this low percen­tage being far more disappointing than the amount contributed. The latter, through the generosity of a group of prominent alumni, presents a substantial total in comparison to the total raised, being approximately one-fourth. 
But the percentage of alumni con­tributing is only one-sixth of the total number of contributors. 
The campaign for funds for the Rockne Memorial is closed. The Uni­versity has undertaken the completion of the financing of the Memorial. 
And sometime during the Summer work will start on the permanent Book of Memory for the Memorial foyer. 
If you aren't among the contribu­tors to the Memorial,. take this last opportunity to join those who must have been intensely pleased to see the magnificent Memorial to a magnifi­cent figure in Notre Dame history which they had, at least in part, made possible. 

June, 1939 
Those Football Tickets 

About the When, Where and How 

The 1939 Schedule looks like an­other A-1 treat for football followers. There's no indication that the demand will lessen for the tickets to Professor Layden's World-Famed Circus. Last year some six of the Saturdays of the Fall found disgruntled sports - lovers relegated by the law of supply and de­mand to that questionable chair by the radio. 
J. Arthur Haley and H. E. Jones, 

D.D.s (ducat distributors) have com­posed another letter on how to avoid this social ostracism in one easy les­son. Briefly: 
1.
 Ticket applications will be mailed about July 20. The sale opens on August 1. 

2.
 Applications will be mailed to all alumni in the Association. If you have not received your blanks by Au­gust 1, notify the Alumni Office, and if you hear a fellow - alumnus, who might not see this if his address is wrong, asking questions, give him the information. 

3.
 THE APPLICATIONS SEN T TO ALUMNI ARE PRINTED EX­PRESSLY FOR ALUMNI, WITH THE WORD "ALUMNI" ACROSS ONE END. These are the only appli­cations considered for alumni prefer­ence, since there is no way in the mechanical handling of the thousands of applications to recognize the alum­ni names on non-alumni blanks. USE THE ALUMNI FORM. 

4.
 Alumni whose dues for the year, 1939-40, are paid (payable as of June 1,1939) will receive preference in the allotment of four tickets for each game, until September 15, or until all tickets for a given game have been sold. In the case of an early sell-out, as may happen in at least four of the coming Fall's games, it is impossible for the Athletic Association to hold an indefinite block of tickets for an unknown demand. 

5.
 In the face of probable demand of this nature during the coming Fall, alumni are urged to order their tick­ets, at least for personal use, as soon as the blanks are received, or as near August 1 as possible. 

6.
 Alumni may have general pub­lic application forms upon request for their own use or the use of friends, or may send in the names of such friends who will be sent the forms direct. This latter practice is rec­ommended on the basis of wide exper­


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ience. For such service, address the Football Ticket Office, Box 71, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
7. Neighboring alumni, interested in season tickets for the attractive five-game home schedule, may write 
immediately to the Athletic Associa­tion, as the forms for season tickets have already been mailed. Price of the . season tickets this year is ?13, includ­ing tax. Individual home games are $3.30 for sideline seats, including tax. 


N. D. Men on Venezuela Mission 
Invited To Discuss Pro­gram of Social Welfare 
Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, president of the University, Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C, '07, professor of education, James E. Mc­Carthy, dean of the College of Com­merce, and Thomas J. Barry, '25, journalist and director of publicity at Notre Dame, will be among the 22 members of a social service commis­sion which will participate this month in conferences in Caracas, Venezuela, South America. 
Also among the delegates will be the Rt. Rev. Monsignor Joseph M. Corrigan, LL.D. '38, rector of the Catholic University of America, Wil­liam E. Cotter, '13, counsel for the Union Carbide and Carbon Corpora­tion, New York' City, and Miss Jose­phine Brownson, Detroit, Laetare medalist this year. 
The Mission, invited by President Lopez Contreras of Venezuela, will discuss social w^elfare problems. A national program of social welfare for Venezuela is being planned by President Contreras. 
Members of the Mission sailed from New York on the Santa Rosa June 
16. The social welfare conference, calling together experts in all lines of social planning to consider welfare problems on an international scale, will be the first of its kind in the Americas, according to Father O'Hara. 
"The Mission should mark the be­ginning of a new form of cooperation between the two American republics," Father O'Hara said. "This is a chal­lenging opportunity for the agencies of. Christian civilization to demon­strate that they are capable of deal­ing with social problems effectively and efficiently at the time when alien 'isms' are making claims and inroads in the Western Hemisphere." 
Experts in housing, public health, education, hospitalization, legislation for social action, social insurance and other forms of public welfare are in­cluded in the Mission. 
The members will meet daily with the Venezuelan cabinet, educators and church leaders during the week of June 21 to advise them on the tech­niques of. social service used by gov­'emmental and private agencies in this country. Chief purpose of the Mission is to advise social agencies there so that both public and private social welfare activities can he ex­panded in Venezuela, according to Father O'Hara. 
Members of the Mission have vol­unteered their services and expenses of the group have been contributed by citizens of the United States as an evidence of good will toward the government and people of Venezuela. Mission members will spend eight days in Caracas. 
Daily conferences will he held with a similar mission of Venezuelan of­ficials appointed by President Contre­ras and reports and recommendations will be placed at the disposal of the Venezuelan government. 
Other members of the Mission are: Dr. Robert Ignatius Gannon, presi­dent of Fordham University, New York; Very Rev. John J. Dillon, pres­ident of Providence College, Provi­dence, Rhode Island; Carl W. Acker­man, dean of the Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University, New York; Rev. John P. Boland, chairman of the New York State Labor Rela­tions Board; Dr. Aristides A. Moll, executive vice-president of Pan Amer­ican Sanitary Bureau; Rt. Rev. Mon­signor John P. Treacy, director of the Society for the Propagation of the Faith, Cleveland, Ohio; Mrs. Antonio 
C. Gonzalez, wife of former United States minister to Venezuela; Miss Regina O'Connell, director of child welfare. Catholic Charities, Chicago; Val Nolan, United States district at­torney, Indianapolis; Tess Marie Gor­ka, executive secretary of the Catholic Yoiith Organization, Gary, Indiana. 
Dr. Francis Frontczak, publi c health commissioner, Buffalo, New York; Dr. Edgar Schmiedeler, direc­tor of Rural Life Bureau, National Catholic Welfare Conference, Wash­ington, D. C; John J. Hegeman, pres­ident of Hegeman and Harris, New York; Dr. Thomas Parran, surgeon general of the United States, and Rev. James M. Drought, vicar general of MaryknoU, executive organizer of the Mission. 
218 The Notre Dame Alumnus June, 1939 

David Van Wallace and Fred Snite to Lourdes 
Van 
In the two pictures above are two of Notre Dame's most newsworthy alumni. The late honorary alumnus, 
G. K. Chesterton, would have liked the pointed paradox that from the paralysis of these two boys has sprung a true and a vital Catholic action throughout the world. 
David Van Wallace was paralyzed in a diving accident, his life despaired of, in the summer of 1924. But he has lived, happy and possessed of a truly great patience in his affliction, a grace which has been generously shared with many. The Notre Dame Club of Detroit has done several out­standing things through its member­ship and outside friends, to make Van's lot a little lighter. A specially constructed car, with space for his in­valid's chair, was obtained, and in it he has traveled and visited his be­loved Notre Dame. 
And it is the Detroit Club, combin­ing its efforts with the alumni of the University of Detroit High School and a group of Van's friends known as the Van Guard, who sponsored a boxing show on June 14 of this year. 
to provide funds to send Van to Lourdes, where the patron to whom he has been so consistently devoted may receive him in one of her great­est shrines of healing. The picture above shows Van, and from left to right, Henry J. Sullivan, genera l chairman of the boxing committee; Gene Tunney, who came on from New York to act as honorary referee, re­fusing all fees or expenses; Frank McGinnis, vice-president of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit; Van Wallace's dad; and Judge Thomas Murphy, '28, of Detroit. The show was a success, and Van's trip to Lourdes this sum­mer a success. 
In the spring of 1936, Fred Snite, Jr., '33, Chicago, was enjoying a trip around the world. In far-off China he was stricken with infantile paral­ysis. His "iron lung" and the .iour­ney home and the later trips to Flor­ida, have been news items of press and radio and screen subsequently. This summer, Fred Snite, in the trail­er which has enabled him to travel with his "iron lung" went to Lourdes, another Notre Dame man turning 

Fred 
with faith to her whom he had learned to love. As this is written, Fred is on his way home, still in his "iron lung," but also, and perhaps the miracle preceded the visit, still the cheerful, smiling "Boiler Kid" whose irrepressible spirit in the face of affliction which took him away from the enjoyment of a full life has been an inspiration to the Catholics, and to all men, throughout the world. In the picture, taken at a Notre Dame football game, are the late be­loved Father John Farley, the late D. 
F. Kelly, and Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. 
Both these boys, forced by dire physical affliction into tortuous con­finement and inactivity, have over­come these handicaps with faith, and with hope. Fred Snite is getting bet­ter, very slowly. Science offers no hope of improvement to Van Wallace. But for both of them, the prayers of all alumni are asked—^to intercede for their recovery, and to thank them for two vivid examples of what we mean when cwe say "a real Notre Dame man." 

June. 1939 The Noire Dame Alumnus 





Old Infirmary Is Torn Down 
The Old Infirmary, historically as­sociated wit h the development of Notre Dame for 75 years, is no long­er. As part of a renovation program at the University, the antiquated building, one of the few that survived the fire on April 23, 1879 has been razed and replaced by a flower garden and lawn. No records are available as to the exact date of the construc­tion of the building. 
The building was demolished under the direction of Thomas L. Hickey, student of 1909, whose grandfather, Louis Hickey, helped make the brick and did carpentry work on the build­ing. The latter was of French de­scent and came here at the time of Father Sorin, 94 years ago. His name at this time was Ethier but in his association with the Irish settlers around "the Hill" in South Bend, he lost his French spelling for an Irish name much similar, Hickey. Louis Hickey died in 1913. 
Thomas Hickey's father, Louis A., Jr., also worked at Notre Dame to keep the Hickey tradition alive. Now, Tom directed the demolition of a building which his grandfather helped build 75 years ago. 
In addition, Thomas Hickey also was confined to the infirmary. 
"I had a tooth pulled there by Dr. Calvert and it cost 25 cents for yank­ing the molar. I still remember those hand-powered drills," said Tom. 
Most of the old timers around the University, as well as people of South Bend, gathered to watch the demolition of the old building which had been used as an Old Men's Home, Minims ' department headquarters, living quarters, barber shop, home of scientific experiments, private resi­dence of school officials, treasurer's office,' steward's office, purchasing de­partment—and as an infirmary. 
Two of the more prominent alum­ni. Dr. J^ M. Berteling, '80, and Dr. Harry Boyd-Snee, minim from '77 to '83, both of South Bend, Indiana, lived in the building as minims and re­called experiences of the hectic days of the past. 
Dr. Berteling, who did the first op­erating at the Infirmary, reminisced about a student who had pneumonia. 
"We were the first to introduce the 
Tales of Historic Siruciure, Famed in Noire Dame Sons and Story, Are Recalled By Noted Figures 
By WILLIAM E. SCANLON, '42 

packed ice treatments for pneumonia at the University," he said. "One student's mother objected greatly be­cause of the so-called 'radical' idea. But the student survived. Another student's mother visited here and asked to put a 'mustard plaster' on her own son. As soon as the mother left, that student ripped off the plas­ter and threw it to the ceiling, where it hung for several hours." 
The elderly South Bend physician thinks the Rev. Louis Neyron, a phy­sician in Napoleon's army at the Battle of Waterloo, was the most cel­ebrated person ever to live in the Infirmary. Father Neyron died at Notre Dame at the age of 98 and had taught Dr. Berteling. The latter had the unusual distinction of living in the old Infirmary building as a minim and later came back to administer to the needs of students and made it his headquarters for nearly 22 years. Dr. Berteling recalled that Brother Ca­nute was custodian and Brother Albert was the head of the Minim department. The doctor often made trips to the Infirmary from his home in South Bend by horse and buggy or sleigh. His daugher or son often ac­companied him, and later son and grandson attended school here. 
The other "old-timer," Dr. Boyd-Snee, vividly recalled the fire in 1879. 
"About 11 ajn.," he said, "the stu­dents were ordered to the clothes room to get their clothes and eifects out of the building and on to the minim campus. After the fire the minims were dispersed for a time but later restored as a part of the new Notre Dame. Among the minims of that time were: the Crowe boys of Fond du Lac,Wisconsin; Charles and John McGrath of Chicago; M. and William Coughlin of Toledo; Pete and Nick Nelson of Chicago; Bishop Dwenger's nephew from Fort Wayne; Ed Howard, son of Professor How­ard; Len Chavret of Albuquerque, New Mexico; the Pan Mourick broth­ers. Bill Cash and Lanbon of Chi­cago." 
According to Dr. Boyd-Snee, the Infirmary was located on the third floor and, the second floor was the dormitory for minims and had special rooms to accommodate visitors. He also spoke of the traditional pillow fights, the ducking for apples on Hal­lowe'en, the collection of stamps from the paper house and the fear of scar­let fever, which was often brought back after the Christmas holidays. 
The Rev. James Bums, C.S.C, for-

use of fresh air, cold water and Tke Old Infirmary, Propped Up to Permit Razing 
220 The Notre Dame Alumnus June, 1939 
Boom Layden For All-Star Post 
Alumni Association and 
mer provincial, and now assistant superior general, believes that Father William Corby can easily be rated among the all-time outstanding per­sonages to be confined to the Infirm­ary. Father Corby, who died there, was chaplain of the Irish Brigade during the Civil War and was twice president of the Universitj'. 
"When St. Edward's Hall was built for the minims. Father Sorin estab­lished an Old Men's Home," Father Bums recalled. "These old men could, often be seen smoking their pipes in the home. Among them were: Father Delehanty, formerly a pastor in Port­land, Oregon; Father Ford; and a man from Australia. He was a gold miner who set the fashion on the cam­pus to earn the distinctive title of 'Prince of Wales.' 
"Two outstanding Sister s who served there were Sister Bethlehem and Sister Cecilia. Sister Bethlehem had a keen eye for those students who were faking, and her way of testing everything was castor oil. If the stu­dent could survive that test he was sick. And that kept many away. The Infirmary was a fine place to spend a week-end and to take advantage of a box from home which included edi­bles, smokes and drinkables. At that time, there were no private rooms in the halls, and the boys delighted in getting a private room to entertain a few friends. I was confined to the Infirmary once—^but I didn't get the castor oil," Father Bums remarked in his typical jolly manner. 

Father Connor Recalls 
Father Bums and his close friend. Father William Connor, C.S.C, prede­cessor of Father Francis Wenninger as master of ceremonies at the Uni­versity and now located at St. jMarj''s College, Holy Cross, Indiana, collabor­ated in remarking that Father Zahm started his classes in chemistry in the Old Infirmary building. 
Father Connor also remembered a change in the entrance shortly before 1900. Previous to that time the main entrance faced Brownson hall on the south but, for convenience, the en­trance was moved to the west side, making a direct entrance to the In­firmary, while the business and treas­urer offices kept the south entrance which was used until a few weeks before the building 'was taken down. The treasurer's office was in the Old Infirmary first floor for more than 40 years, but quarters for the purchas­ing department were more recent. Those two offices, the last two to leave the Infirmary, were moved to the Ad­ministration Building, ^\^len the ath­letic offices are moved into the new Breen - Phillips hall nest fall, the treasurer's office and purchasing of­fice will be permanently .located on 
Local Clubs 
The Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion, in conjunction with Local Clubs throughout the country, will head an active campaign this summer to elect Elmer F. Layden, '25, head coach of 
ALI^STAR LAYDEN' 
the 1939 All-Star Collegians to play in Chicago against the National Pro­fessional league champions. 
The Notre Dame groups will co­operate with the Chicago Tribune in the proposed election of Layden and will combine with Purdue University 
the first floor of the Administration Building. 
"Epsom salts was another common remedy for all ills," Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C, remembers. He also related that Father Martin Regan, one-time prefect of discipline, was an old chaplain; Father William Ma­loney, director of studies; Father Thomas Walsh, Father Morrissey, Father John Cavanaugh, Father Matt Walsh, Knute Rockne, and "practi­cally everyone that became sick in those days," lived at the Infirmary. 
"One of the tricks of the students was to sign in at the Infirmary and then get out at night by the fire es­cape. They would go down town and get back in by the fire escape. Of course, they weren't too ill. Brother Terrence, who made all the keys, brought water to the Old Infirmary as there was no running water." 
 to Assist 
clubs to urge the election of Mai El-ward, '16, as an aide to Layden. Elward is head coach at Purdue. The AU-Star game was inaugurated by Arch Ward, alumnus and Tribune sports editor. 
Layden, who first gained fame as a member of the immortal "Four Horse­men"— Grantland Rice's prize nick­name— has successfully upheld the traditions of Knute Rockne and he has attained not only national but also international acclaim , even having spread it to Notre Dame's an­cestors in Ireland. 
DeValera and the Shift 
According to Ed Sullivan, Holly­wood news commentator. Dr. Deno O'Connor of Chicago visited Eamon DeValera in Ireland and was granted a special audience. "If you don't mind, Doctor, I would rather not talk poli­tics," said DeValera surprisingly, "but I'd appreciate it if you'd explain the Notre Dame shift to me." 
Among the Notre Dame players eligible to compete in the 1939 play­ers poll are: Joseph (Ed) Beinor, all-American tackle; Earl Brown, all-• American end; Captain Jim McGold­rick, guard; Ed Longhi, all-American center on several teams; Augie Bos­su, guard; Paul Kell, tackle; Motts Tonelli, Ed Binkowski, and Ed Sim­onich, fullbacks; Max Bumell, half­back; Bill Hofer, quarterback; Earl Broscoe end; and Paul Morrison, half­back. 
On Easter Monday, in April, 1936, the new infirmary was opened—and a cat, one of the celebrated inmates at the Old Infirmary, was moved, too, one of the Sisters at the present in­firmary recalled. Sister Evaldo, Sis­ter Anselm, and Sister Clare Patrice of the present Infirmary staff also served at the old building. 
Dr. John Cassidy is believed to be the first doctor to serve the students here. He was succeeded by Dr. Ber­teling, who in turn was followed by Dr. Frank Powers, '94. Dr. Powers led the drive to get the new Infirmary built, but died shortly before his dream was accomplished. He lived to see the beginning of the new building, however. Dr. James McMeel, present physician, succeeded Dr. Powers, and Dr. McMeel now has an assistant. Dr. James E. Caton, ex. '34. Dr. Boyd-Snee has served the University as a specialist for 46 years. 

June, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
By JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 « Director of Athletic Publicity 



ATHLETICS 
Closing the books on another ath­letic year, • we find that the Fighting Irish compiled a winning percentage of .675 for 82 events in dual competi­tion. A slight slump in the fortunes of the track and basketball teams brought the percentage down from 1938's .710 and 1937's .679. 
The football team won 8 out of 9 to show improvement over last year. The golfers won 7 out of 9 as com­pared with last year's 4 out of 9. Fencing, tennis, and baseball held their own. 
The gridders, with eight straight victories, had a national title in their grasp, but lost, 13 to 0, to Southern California's Pacific Coast titlists and Rose Bowl champions. It was the best record compiled by Elmer Lay-den, however, the best since Knute Eockne's 1930 national championship year, and one which was significant in many respects to be mentioned later. 
The track .team won the Central Collegiate conference indoor meet and took third in the outdoor. Irish stars won several titles in national compe­tition. The golfers lost only two matches, to Purdue and Northwestern by one point each, and took the Indi­ana State meet for the 10th straight year to avenge the Purdue loss. The tennis team again barely missed a winning record; but Bill Fay defeated teammate Jack Joyce in the finals of the Indiana state collegiate tourna­ment. The baseball team won 11 out of 17 starts and, in Big Ten compe­tition, had a won and lost record that matched Iowa's — and Iowa won the title. The Irish avenged four of their defeats in return games, but lost two to Michigan State. 
Team percentages follow: 
Foottall . . Golt Fencinpr — Bas1ietb.ill Baseball „. Tennis Track  w8 7 7 15 11 . 4 2  L T 1 0 2 0 2 1 6 0 G. 0 5 1 4 0  Pet. .SS9 .778 .778 .714 .647 .444 .333  
Total s  

FOOTBALL 
The •most_ significant thing about the 1938 football season to your corre­spondent wasthe return to popularity of old time dpwnfield blocking.. Coach Layden- has been trying since 1934 to "instill;. the spipt of blocking .and tackling" which was taken for grant­ed inJiis.playingdays,-buthis preach­ments just didn't seem to catch on until last fall. Facing what was her­alded as a powerful Kansas team in the opener, the Irish rolled up a 52 to 0 score, with blockers out in front to make possible those old-school break­away runs. The boys found out for themselves, then, what Layden and his untiring assistants had been talking about. 
They shook Motts Tonelli and Ben Sheridan loose against Georgia Tech, they helped Sheridan return a punt 68 yards against Illinois, Joe de Fran­co and Steve Sitko were out ahead of Bill Kerr on the end-around play that beat Carnegie Tech, 7 to 0. They got Joe Thesing into the open against Army, with Ed Beinor opening the holes and the rest doing some nice cleaning-up. It was Saggau and Lou Zontini on an 80-yard march against Navy, a parade that started without warning. Captain-Elect Johnny Kelly got the safety "man on Lou Zontini's 84-yard jaunt agains t Minnesota. John Mclntyre, Paul Morrison, and others helped Bill Hofer return a pass more than half the length of the field against Northwestern. And jusfone more block might have turned,the tide 9t Los Angeles. The Trojans scored with two seconds of the first half remaining. Bob Saggau returned the ensuing kjckoff to midfield where the safety man^who was vulnerable, doubled and redoubled, at the time— pulled him down. 
The backfield — Steve Sitko, Lou Zontini, Joe Thesing, and Bob Sag­gau, abetted by Sheridan, Harry Ste­venson, Milt Piepul and others—re­turns intact next fall. The No. 1 line has only Captain Kelly at right end. Losses include Earl Brown, Ed Bein­or, Paul Kell, Captain Jim McGold­rick, Augie Bossu, and Ed Longhi of the first team line. Theshock troops >\nll advance, however, to hold the gains made by those gentlemen before they were mown down by graduation. Bill Kerr, left end; Tom Gallagher and Tad Harvey, tackles; Joe De Franco and Joe Gulianich, guards; and John Mclptyre- and. Al .Mooney, centers, give Line Coach Joe Boland a foundation. 
The 1938 record follows: 
Notre Dame. .^2 : Kansas. 0 
Notre Dame. 14 : Georpia Tech, 6 
Notre Dame. 14 : Illinois. G 
Notre Dame. 7 :^ Camejrie Tech. 0 
Notre Dame, 19 :' Army, 7 
Notre Dame, .15.; iCavy, 0 
Notre Dame,'lll;.Minnesota, 0 
Notre t>ame,' Oi Norjhivcstern, 7 
. Notre'Damc. (V:*Sonthern .California, 13 
Following is the 1939 schedule: 

Sept. 30--Purdue at Notre Dame Oct. 7 z Georgia- Tech at Notre Dame Oct. 14 _ -.South. Methodist at Notre Darne Oct. 21_ -Navy at Cleveland Oct. 2S_ -Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh Nov. 4 Army at New York Nov. 11_. -Iowa at Iowa City Nov. 18_ —.—Northwestern at Notre Dame -South. California at Notre Dame 
GOLF 
The Eev. George Holderith, C.S.C, took the same squad that lost five out of nine matches last year, added a talented sophomore name d Sammy Neild of Pawtucket, Ehode Island, and came within an eyelash of delivering an undefeated team. In his first match against Illinois, Neild set a William J. Burke-Notre Dame com­petitive course record of 68, two under par. He tied this later, and twice had 69s. The record went to Captain John David of Purdue, how­ever, in the Indiana State tournament when he cracked out a 66 to total 140, even par, for 36 holes for a three-stroke victory over Captain Tom Sheehan, Jr., of Notre Dame. 
• Northwestem's Big Ten champions won, 12% to 11-^2 on their own course. • Purdue trailed 13 to 5, but swept the last three singles matches to get 9 points and a 14 to 13 victory. On the brighter side, Notre Dame soundly defeated Michigan, Illinois, Chicago, Marquette, and Wisconsin, and won close ones from Minnesota and Detroit. The Irish scored 606 to win the Indiana state title. Purdue was second ^\-ith 626, Indiana third with 628, and Butler fourth with 699. 
Of more' importance perhaps, al­thought some will doubt it, is the fact that Mike O'Connor defeated Father Tom Brennan, C.S.C, in 19 holes for the flight A faculty golf championship. James McKenna won the flight B title, from Fred Weber. The flight C title went to James Kearney when he defeated Jerrj- Se­chowski. Jim Dincolo won the flight D championship from Ernie Howard. Consolation rounds had been complet­ed . at this writing" in flights A and B, ^\ith Father John Eeynolds, C.S.C, winning the former, and Stanley Ses­sler the latter. 
The golfers, hoping to finish ahead of Northwestern and thus cancel their one-point defeat,.will play in the na­tional, intercollegiate tournament at Des Moines,. Iowa, June 26-July 1. The team title, in.which the low four scores turned in by each six-man unit count, will be settled during the qualifying medal play rounds of 18­holes each the first two days. 
The 1939 record follows: 
Notre Dame, 2014: Illinois, 6% 
Notre Dame, IS: Marquette, 6 
Notre Dame, 19%: Chicago 1'A 
Notre Dame, 13; Purdue. 14 
Notre Dame, 17^^: Michigan, 9% 
Notre Dame 17%: Wisconsin, 9% 
Notre Dame, 11% : Northwestern, 12% 
Notre Dame, 14%: Detroit, 9% 
Notre Dame. 14; Minnesota, 10 

The six regulars averaged 74.46 strokes for all matches and the state tournament. The way the team fared individually follows, with seniors in­dicates by asterisks: 
No. of Player Home Avs. rds. Sammy Neild, Pawtucket, R. I-IS 

•Capt.
 T. Shechan, Chicago Hts., III. 72.94 IS Bill Schaller, Milwaukee, Wis. 74.06 14 

•Chuck
 Bennett, St. Augustine Fla. 75.3 14 Walter Hagen, ir„ Detroit, Mich 75.81 11 Phil Donohue, Siou^ City, la. ^76.1 10 Bob Bertsch, Mayvvood, III. 76 3 George Costello, Crystal Lake, 111. 76.3 3 

•Joe
 Stulb, Augusta, Ga, 77.5 4 

•Joe
 Corcoran, Brockton, Mass. 7S.4 5 



The alumni golf title went to Bill Veeneman, '34, Louisville, Ky., who shot 77-82—159. Eunner-up was Bill Cronin, '29, Dayton, Ohio, with 79-81 —160. 
FENCING 
The fencing record was covered in an earlier issue, but for the record, we mention again that the Irish broke even in their first five starts, and then stormed through with five straight victories to finish in a tie with golf for second in the Notre Dame team standings. Professor Pedro de Lan­dero, who coaches tennis as well as fencing, annoimced that he is taking a year's leave of absence from the University, but he hopes to take up his duties again in the fall of 1940. 
The record follows: 
Notre Dame, 10%: Purdue, 6% Notre Dame 8: Lawrence Tech, 8 Notre Dame, 4 : Chicago, 13 Notre Dame, 16: Detroit, 1 Notre Dame, 9%: Ohio State 7% Notre Dame, 14; Cincinnati, 3 Notre Dame, 6: LaPanchc F.C, Cincinnati, 3 Notre Dame, 17: Purdue, 10 Notre Dame, 9: Wisconsin, 8 Notre Dame, 12: Washington U., 5 

BASKETBALL 
Like football and fencing, basket­ball was covered in earlier issues, but we'd just like to remind you that Coach George Keogan's team was one of the smallest and one of the fastest he's ever had at Notre Dame, and that it compiled a record of 15 vic­tories in 21 games. 
The team also managed to pick up several records on its way, and the lads included a 10-game winning streak in the record. They set Notre Dame records of 72 and 74 points 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
against Canisius and John Carroll, respectively. They made 22 out of 23 free throws against Kentucky. They averaged 45 points for a Notre Dame record. Their total of 985 points for 21 games is a new mark. Coach Keogan completed his 16th season with a percentage of .776, one of the best in the nation. 
On the negative side, the Irish re­ceived their worst defeat in Keogan's 16 years by 25 points, 47 to 22, at the hands of Marquette. The Hill-toppers won the return game, 58 to 50, the first clean sweep they ever made against Notre Dame, and it happened on the first occasion that the Irish made 50 points and still lost. 
The record: 

Notre Dame, 64: Kalamazoo, 13 Notre Dame 70; Ball State, 30 Notre Dame, 39; Wisconsin, 45 Notre Dame, 38; Michigan, 40 
Notre Dame, 4S; Northwestern, 30 
Notre Dame, 39; Northwestern, 43 
Notre Dame, 4S: Cornell, 18 
Notre Dame, 3i ;
Butler, 35 Notre Dame, 42; 
Kentucky. 37 Notre Dame, 59; 
Western Reserve, 36 Notre Dame 72; 
Canisius, 36 John Carroll, 36 Notre Dame, 74; 

Minnesota, 33 

Notre Dame, 55; 
Illinois, 24 

Notre Dame. 38; New York U.. 30 Notre Dame, 34; Syracuse, 34 (overtime) Notre Dame, 35; 
Marquette, 47 

Notre Dame, 22; 
Marquette, 5S 

Notre Dame, 50; 
Butler, 35 

Notre Dame, 27; Detroit U., 42 Notre Dame 48; New York U., 42 
Notre Dame, 46; 
BASEBALL 
Coach Jake Kline's lads capitalized on occasional fine pitching and con­sistent hitting by four members of the cast to offset occasional fielding lapses. They won 11 out of 17, match­ing last year's record exactly. They lost their first games to, and won the return games from, Northwestern, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Michigan. Rex Ellis shut out Iowa's Big Ten cham­pions, 1 to 0, on one hit. Mike Mand­jiak beat Wisconsin the same way. Nerval Hunthausen won his first five starts, going 31 innings before he gave an earned run. He hurled a two-hitter against Illinois to ^vin, 4 to 2. Ellis beat Northwestern, 9 to 2, on three hits. Hunthausen beat Purdue, 6 to 1, on four hits after blanking the Boilermakers earlier, 9 to 0, on three hits. Tony Cella's fine relief hurling against Chicago gave him credit for one victory in one start, with the Irish going 12 innings to win, 9 to 7. 
Sophomore Ray Pinelli, shortstop, led the hitting department with an average of .338. He tied in total hits 
•vvith24 and in runs batted in with 16, and he was second in runs scored ^vith 
17. Captain Joe Nardone, center-fielder, who got four for four in the Commencement game \vith Michigan State despite a twisted ankle, was second with .324. He scored 17 runs from his lead-off position to lead in that department. He tied with Ray 
June. 1939 

Pinelli in total hits with 24. He tied with Ken Oberbruner, left fielder, in two-baggers with three. He was sec­ond in total bases with 32. 
Ken Oberbruner, who led in total bases with 21 hits, including a homer, three triples, and three doubles, was third in the averages with a .313 mark. He drove home 13 runs for third position and scored 14 to tie for second. Captain-Elect Chet Sulli­van, third sacker, hit .306, for fourth place. He got 22 hits for third place, scored 12 runs for fourth, knocked in 15 runs for second, and collected 28 total bases for fourth position. 
Art Verhoestra, senior catcher, and Larry Doyle, senior first baseman, playe d steady defensive ball but couldn't get started at the plate. Bob Hoag, senior, and Hubert Crane, a junior, alternated at second base. Roy Pinelli, brother of Ray, and both sons of Ralph (Babe) Pinelli, National League umpire, alternated in right field with Frank Behe. 
Iowa won the Western conference title ^vith 8 victories and 3 defeats. Against Big Ten teams, Notre Dame won 9 games and lost 4. Ellis snapped Iowa's 11-game \\-inning streak. The Irish also defeated Indiana, Purdue, Northwestern, and Iowa while those teams were leading the Big Ten. 
The scores follow: 

Notre Dame, 4; Illinois, 2 Notre Dame, 10; 
Western Stale Teachers, 5Notre Dame, 5; Western State Teachers, 0Notre Dame, 9; Chicago, 7 (12 innings) Notre Dame, 9; 

Purdue, 0

Notre Dame, 1; 
Michigan, 9

Notre Dame, ) ** -Indiana, 7 Notre Dame, Michigan State, 14 Notre Dame, Northwestern, 2 Notre Dame. Wisconsin, 7 Notre Dame, Wisconsin, 0 
Notre Dame, Purdue, 1 Notre Dame. Michigan, 3 Notre Dame, Iowa, 8 Notre Dame, Iowa, 0 
Notre Dame, Michigan St. 4 (Commence­
ment g:une) 

TENNIS 
Perhaps the absence of a winning tradition in tennis had as much to do with it as anything, but the Irish again failed to surmount—by the nar­rowest margin—^the elusive .500 bar­rier, ^vinning 4, losing 5, and tying one. The tie occurred at Kentucky when the deciding doubles match was rained out with each team in posses­sion of one set. The Irish had ral­lied strongly to ^vin the second, and might have swept on to victory. The crushing blow, however, was the loss of Jack Joyce, talented sophomore, ^vith an infection, at the time of the Michigan State and Western State matches. He was playing No. 3 and most certainly would have won at least two of his matches in singles and doubles to offset the 6 to 3 Mich­igan State victory and the 5 to 4 Western State triumph. 
Captain-Elect Bill Fay won the 

June, 1939 
state singles title, after losing in last year's finals and •ivinning last year's doubles. His opponent in the 1939 finals was the same Jack Joyce, who defeated the defending champion, Ed Lindsay of DePauw, in an early round, and t^vice had to fight off match point in later rounds to rally sensationally for victory. 
The season's record follows: 
Notre Dame, 7; Wabash, 0 Notre Dame, 7; Detroit. 0 Notre Dame, 7: Indiana, 2 Notre Dame, 4 ; Kentucky. 4 Notre Dame, 3 ; Miclii^an State, Notre Dame, 4; Western State, i Notre Dame, 1: Chicago, 8 Notre DePauw 1
Dame, 6; Notre Northwestern, 7
Dame, 0; Notre Michigan, 9
Dame, 0; 

Following is the won and lost rec­ord of individuals, with senior indi­cated by asterisks: 
Rank Player Matches Sets Games 
W. L. W. L. W. L. 

1 Bill Fas-, Mt. Lebanon. Pa. 5 5 11 13 96 106 2 *Whitney Gregory. Louisville, Ky 5 5 12 11 127 123 3 'Capt. Fred Simon, Dallas, Tex.is 3 7 6 14 66 101 4 Harold Bowler. Ware. Mass. 4 5 7 12 63 93 5 Jack Joyce Spartanburg, S.C. 3 1 6 3 43 33 6 John Walsh. Price. Utah 7 3 14 6 112 69 *Joc Lewis. Clarksville. Tcnn. 0 3 0 5 11 36 Don Gottchalk. Milwaukee. Wis. 0 1 0 2 3 12 Graduation losses are comparative­ly light, and the team will be rein­forced by at least two sophomores ne.xt fall who can beat almost any­one of the current squad. 
TRACK 
Ordinarily it would be an unpleas­ant task to ^v^ite about a season in which there were only two dual meet victories against four defeats. But the Irish of 1939 have no reason to hang their heads, nor have we any reason to apologize for them. Grad­uation cleaned out such stars as Bill Clifford, Danny Gibbs, John Francis, and several others. The sophomore crop supplied very little. As is usual­ly the case when reserves are needed, they were not there. Marquette and Michigan State outdoor and Indiana indoor won meets which might very easily have gone to Notre Dame with everyone—or any one of half a dozen cripples—in shape. Michigan scored the only decisive victory over the Irish indoor, 65 to 30. 
Notre Dame won the Central Colle­giate conference indoor championship and defeated Indiana indoors. Out­doors, the Irish starred at both the Penn and Drake relays, defeated Ohio State in dual competition, and took third in the C.C.C. meet. 
Captain Greg Rice pressed the all-time Notre Dame two-mile record 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1939-40 CAPTAINS 

Football — John F. Kelly, E.E., Rutherford, N. J. Basketball — Mark A. Ertel, C, Tipton, Ind. Track — Theodore Leonas, high jump, Chicago.. Baseball — Chester Sullivan, 3b, Chicago, 111. Golf — Walter Hagen, Jr., Detroit, Mich. Tennis — William C. Fay, Mt. Lebanon, Pa. Fencing — Robert F. Sayia, Mont­clair, N. J. 
down to 9 minutes 5 seconds indoor in losing to Don Lash by a lash in the Chicago relays—three of the official timers took the winning time from Rice's shirt—and to 9:06.4 outdoor against Michigan State, establishing a new national intercollegiate record. Rice won the Drake relays two-mile in 9:10, a record at the time. Ne.xt day he ran a 4:12.5 mile with the second place Notre Dame four-mile team which set a new Notre Dame mark for the second straight year without winning (also running under the Drake record); and a 1:54.6 half-mile, his best effort in competition, with the ^vinning two-mile quartet. 
Bill Faymonville, senio r weight star, broke his own Notre Dame dis­cus record, setting a Penn relays mark of 163 feet 4 inches, and a Car­tier field, Marquette-Notre Dame dual meet, and new Notre Dame standard of 163 feet 9 inches. He lost his field record and Indiana State champion­ship a week later to Archie Harris of Indiana, who got off a throw of 164 feet 5 inches. 
Captain-Elect Ted Leonas, Chicago junior, cracked the Notre Dame out­door high jump record, formerly held by Vince Murphy, with an effort of 6 feet 6% inches in the outdoors Cen­trals, tying with Eddie Burke of Marquette for first. He also won the Penn relays title, and the C.C.C. in­door championship. 
Other consistent winners included Ed Beinor weight star and erstwhile tackle; Bob Saggau talented left half­back and sprinter; Steve Coughlin, sprinter; John Dean, pole vaulter and high jumper; Curtis Hester, half-miler; Joe Halpin quarter-miler; Harry Stevenson, halfback and jav­elin hurler; Don Morgan, hurdler; Dave Reidy, hurdler who was second in indoor scoring, but didn't make a point outdoors because of a heavy attack of flu; Ken Collins, 440-yard dash man; Bob La\vrence, hurdler and quarter-miler; Tom O'Reilly, sopho­more high jumper who never tried the 
223 

event before entering Notre Dame; and others who will be heard from later. 
The record follows: 
Indoor 

Indiana. 44 1.3; Notre Dame, 41 2-3. 
Millrose A.C. games—^T^vo-mile run won by Rice in 9:07.6. 
Notre Dame. 65; Michigan State, 30. 
Illinois relays (No point totals kept)—Rice won 1500 meter run; Reidy second in 75-yard lows and third in 76-yard highs; Halpin fourth in 300-yard dash; Faymonville third and Bein­or fourth in shot put; Dean tied for third in pole vault; Dougherty third in broad iump; Leonas tied for third in high iump; Notre Dame fourth in two-mile relay; second in 320-yard shuttle hurdle relay; failed to place in mile team race but Rice was first among individuals in 4:25.7. meet record time. His 
3:58 in the 1500 meters is also a record. 
Michigan 65; Notre Dame. 30. 
I.C.4A meet at New York—^Rice third in two mile behind Cunningham lind Lash. 
C. C. C. meet — Notre Dame won with 45 points; Marquette. 32; Pittsburgh, 28. 
Butler relays—Notre Dame fourth with 17% points. 
Chicago relays—Rice second to Lash in two-mile in 9:05. 
Outdoor 

Drake relays — Rice won two-mile; Notre Dame won two-mile relay. Notre Dame sec­ond in four-mile relay breaking former Drake rela>*s and Notre Dame records. 
Penn relays—Faymonville won discus throw. Leonas won high jump. 
Notre Dame. 69; Ohio State 61 
Michigan State. 70; Notre Dame. 61. 
Marquette. 77; Notre Dame. 54. Indiana State meet—Indiana 57%; Notre Dame, 51 ; Purdue, 29%. C.C.C. meet—^Marquette, 45 1-3; Indiana, 36; Notre Dame, 35%. 
Rice, Leonas, and Faymonville were to represent Notre Dame at the 
N.C.A.A.
 meet, June 16-17. Rice holds the N.C.AJl. cross-country title and record, and the N.A.A.XJ. 5,000­meter championship. He won the 

N.C.A.A.
 two-mile in record time in 1937, but lost his title to Walter Mehl of Wisconsin last year, although he ran two seconds under his former rec­ord himself. Mehl won in 9:11.1, Rice ran 9:11.6, and Rice's 1937 record was 


9:14.2. He ivill work in South Bend and will train under Coach John P. Nicholson for the 1940 Olympics. His big goal is to make the United States team and to become the first Ameri­can to win the Olympic 5,000-meter run, a Finnish monopoly since 1912. 
BULLETIN 

Gre^ Rice set a new N.C.A.A. and new Notre Dame record when he won the two-mile event at the 
N.C.A.A. meet in Los Angeles on June 17 in 9:02.6. Bill Faymon­ville took fifth in the discus. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus June, 1939 
COMMENCEMENT STORY 

(Continued on Page 20T) 

presented to the Class of 1929 at its old-fashioned Brownson Smoker in Brownson Rec on Saturday night. The trophy will be held in the Alumni Office, properly engraved, until next year when the Classes of 1930 and 1935 struggle for the title. 
Coac h Clarence Kline's baseball team put in eight innings of interest­ing baseball against Michigan State, but State was not so vitally concerned wit h our Commencement program and played the full nine, thereby com­ing out from behind to hang a 4-3 decision on the Cartier Field gate. It still gave the N. D. team a creditable season, and the large crowd enjoyed an ideal day and the always interest­ing see-saw of the changing lead. 
At 4:30 the real feature of the 1939 Commencement was reached -svith the dedication of the Rockne Memorial. A separate story and pictures will do more justice to this realization of a long-cherished ambition to perpetuate the memory and the work of Knute Rockne on his Alma Mater's campus. 
The Alumni Banquet 

At 6 P. M. 700 alumni gathered in the East Hall of the University Din­ing Halls to participate in the annual Alumni Banquet. 
Circumstances kept President Am­brose O'Connell away from the week­end, and Joseph McGlynn, vice-presi­dent, was again called on to preside. 
Principal feature of the banquet this year was a tribute to Professor Francis X. Ackermann, who retired last summer after 52 years of teach­ing, and to three other members of the faculty whose retirement became effective at Commencement — Profes­sor Edward J. Maurus, former head of the department of mathematics, teacher at Notre Dame since 1893; Professor William L. Benitz, former head of the mechanical engineering department, a teacher at Notre Dame since 1896, and Professor Robert L. Greene, former head of the depart­ment of pharmacy, a teacher here since 1902. Official voice was given to the tribute from the Association by Professor Clarence E. Manion, fellow-faculty member and former president of the Alumni Association. The ban­quet crowd tendered the retiring pro­fessors a tremendous ovation. There 
was a second thunder of applause when Father O'Hara announced that all of the retired men would continue to spend some time at the University, particularly in the field of personal, inspirational relations with students. 
Father O'Hara emphasized the growth, physically and academically. 
of graduate work in the University, notably in recent years in the fields of chemistry, physics, mathematics, philosophy, politics, and apologetics, and dwelt particularly on the develop­ment of the new Bureau of Economic Research. He outlined plans for en­rolling at Notre Dame in apologetics several outstanding South American students. 
A new residence hall on the campus is in prospect. Father O'Hara said, for the use of graduate students, who for the most part are now forced to seek residence in South Bend. Also planned 
From the New Presiden't 
'*The new officers of the Alumni Association extend greetings to all members, near and far, and especial­ly the class of 1939 who we hope will become active and faithful members of the Association. 

"Each graduate, regardless of where he lives, is urged to get in touch at once with the secretary or president of his local alumni club or with the club nearest to his place of residence so that his name can be in­cluded on some club mailing list. The older men will give each new alumnus a hearty welcome and help him in every iivay . to become established in his community. 
*'Our major problem this year is to secure employment for the 1939 graduates who have not yet found their places in the business world and also for all other alumni who re­quest the assistance of the Associa­tion. 
**If you are an employer we ask you to give prior consideration to Notre Dan:e graduates whenever you have a vacancy in your organization. The president or secretary of your local alumni club will know if a Notre Dame man with the required qualificrations is available in your city, if not, then kindly communicate with William R. Dooley, '26, Director of th e Alumni Association Placement Bureau, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
''Please follow the same procedure if a business acquaintance should ask you to recommend a man for a spe­cific position. Mr. Dooley vrill coop­erate promptly by sending you the necessary information, he assures us. 
"If you will support the Associa­tion, in every way — your personal participation in Club and Class pro­grams, a contribution within your 
means the Association vfill in turn support a program that will be for you a source of both pride and profit." 


DANIEL E. HILGARTNER, JR., '17, President of the Alumni Association. 
for erection in the near future are a new chemistry building and a new building for the use of the depart­ments of mechanical engineering and aeronautical engineering. 
The report of the Secretary-Treas­urer of the Association, given at the banquet, was of particular interest. Many prominent guests, here in con­nection with the Rockne Memorial dedication, were introduced to the audience. 
Following the banquet, the Class of 1929 entertained itself and a number of other alumni at an old-fashioned smoker in Brownson Rec Room. Many familiar faculty faces wer e see n mingling with the 10-Year group as the facilities of the Room were thor­oughly enjoyed in a real renewal of the Old Spirit of Notre Dame. 
During the banquet, families and friends of graduates and alumni were entertained in Washington Hall by a concert by the Notre Dame Glee Club under the direction of Professor Dan­iel Pedtke. A variety of group and solo numbers please d a capacity crowd. Several of the soloists, and Professor Casasanta and his band, furnished music for the Alumni Ban­quet also. 

Sunday Ceremonies 
The story of Sunday is the old hut always new story of the magnificent Solemn Pontifical Mass, with its aca­demic procession, its inspiring Bacca­laureate, this year by the dynamic Bishop Shell, and the impressive cere­mony of flag-blessing and flag-raising which follows. And in the after­noon, came the climax of the pro­gram for the Class of 1939 the award­ing of degrees, and the vivid address of William H. Harrison, personable vice-president and chief engineer of the American Telephone and Tele­graph Co., of New York. His address, and Bishop Shell's, are reprinted in this ALUMNUS for your edification. 
The Tenth Annual Council of Local Clubs was held at 10:30 Sunday morning this year, in an effort to in­crease attendance. It met in the Court Room of the Law Building. Place­ment was adopted as Project No. 1 for the Clubs for 1939 and 1940. But of perhaps more general moment was the decision to call a meeting of rep­resentative Club officers this summer to prepare a Handbook of Local Club Procedure to be ready by Fall if feas­ible. • Development of the Clubs has been most encouraging, and the move toward standardization is made to speed up the development of the smaller and more remote Clubs as well as to provide a solid stepping stone for all the Clubs to further 
progress. 
At 12 noon on Sunday the Mono­

June. 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 


No Summer Lull on Campus 
Campus Continues Active Prosram: Re­treats, Summer School, Boy Leadership 
gram Club, 125 strong, met to wel­come the new members, and pay trib­ute to several departed. The meet­ing was augmented by the presence of a large number of former team­mates and students of Knute Rockne, back for the dedication. In the un­avoidable absence of Roger Kiley, re­tiring president, Gus Desch, former Olympic track star, presided. The Club paused in a silent tribute to Rev. John Farley, C.S.C, one of its most beloved members. Short addresses were given by Frank E. Hering, Rev. 
M. L. Moriarty, Elmer F. Layden, and Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C. The Club passed a resolution of condolence to be sent to the family of the late Edmond Collins. 
In the election of officers, Frank E. Hering was elected honorary presi­dent; Chet Wynne was elected pres­ident; Daniel Coughlin was elected vice-president; and Frank Miles was re-elected secretary - treasurer. The new president gave a short inaugural address urging a more intensive de­velopment of the club. 
The Laetare Medal was presented to Miss Josephine Brownson of De­troit at a special ceremony in Wash­ington Hall at 8 P. M. on Sunday, to bring to an' inipressive close the many events of the 95th Annual Commence­ment. 
Each year the scope and the signi­ficance, to use but apt terms, in­creases as the Commencement pro­

. gram unfolds. 
;• As' the C e n t en n i a 1 approaches, alumni .and a growing .circle of friends- oif the. University; .are con­scious of this :g.l o r i g u s transition which has long since raised Notre Dame to academic pinnacles. " 
Annually the • nature of the 'exeir cises and the nature of alumni par­ticipation in them shows a trend to­ward greater achievement in this an­nual culmination of a schoolyear. • 
Momentum is being gained rapidly. There is indication that the Com­mencement of 1940 will mark the en­trance to a new decade with the entrance to a new era of alumni pro­grams in conjunction with the Com­mencements. 
Reunion Classes for 1940, Alumni Clubs, and alumni generally, please note! 
This hasty sketch of the week-end is hopelessly inadequate as a descrip­tion. You can derive much from the separate stories and the brilliant ad­dresses we are privileged to reprint. Read this issue carefully. Lists of alumni who registered in the Office and the Halls, are printed under the Class Notes. Those of you who missed the Commencement missed a great deal. If you weren't here for your badge this year, and want the real dope, just 'ask the man who owns one.' 
Alumni and students who believe that they leave a lonely campus be­hind when the last Commencement recessional is played, should get ac­quainted with the new order. 
The annual Notre Dame retreat for the priests and brothers of the Community was held from June 11 to June 18. 
The 22nd Annual Summer Session of the University opened on June 20 and will close on Wednesday, August 2, with the Commencement scheduled for -4ugust 1. At this %\Titing indi­cations point to an increase in enroll­ment for the 1939 session, bringing the total to more than 1,000 graduate and undergraduate students. Nine­teen visiting teachers join the 100 regular membei-s of the Notre Dame faculty who will continue summer teaching. Arts and Letters and Sci­ence offer the major cun-icula of the summer school, with some special courses being offered in Law, Engi­neering and Commerce. 

Laymen's Retreat 
Immediately afte r the Summer School, the annual Laj-men's Retreat will open on -A.ugust 4 for three days, followed bj' a second Retreat (closed) beginning on Sunday night, August 6, and ending on August 8. This Retreat, long an institution at Notre Dame and increasingly attended by alumni" in the Middle West, attracts more than 1,000 laymen to the cam­pus. 

" • .-Rev. Frederick.Schulte, C.S.C, .'27, 
•'will
preach the first Retreat, and Rev. 

•
 teihvard" R. Fitzgerald, C.S.C, f30, ;Avill preach the second. The Retreat ' is: Hinder the direction of the Holy 


Cross-Mission priests, whose superior at Notre Dame is the Rev. Patrick Dolan, CSiC;, '15. 
The Retreat is open to any Catho­lic layman over 16. A contribution of ten dollars or more takes care of the three days of housing and excel­lent meals in the Dining Hall. Many alumni enjoy the Retreat and many father-and-son combinations have be­come annual attendants at this invig­orating spiritual exercise. 


Diocesan Retreat 
June 19 to June 22, Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., LL.D. '15, Bish­op of Fort Wayne, directed the an­nual retreat of the clergy of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, held on the Notre Dame campus For two days preceding the retreat itself the clergy were given a series of conferences concerning the N.CW.C. and the unification of Catholic activities, by the Kt. Rev. Msgr. Michael J. Ready, Washington, D. C, general secre­tary of the Bishops' council. Bishop Noll is one of the outstanding mem­bers of the -American hierarchy, lead­ing at the present time the drive for decent literature, in which connec­tion several national broadcasts have emanated from the University, sup­plemented by the publication of the "No Smut" booklet by the depart­ment of religion. 

Boy Leadership Course 

July 9 to 16, the 17th Annual Session in Boy Leadership will be held on the campus. No academic credit is given, and no prerequisites are asked, other than that those men attending be interested in the prob­lems of youth. Special emphasis will be placed on the Catholic youth move­ment. Professor Raymond A. Hoyer, professor of social work at Notre Dame, will direct the course. Scout­ing, camping, boys' clubs, and the Co­lumbian Squires will be considered, in addition to the work of the C.Y.O. Albert L. Doyle, '27, of the St. Joseph County juvenil e court; Benjamin Weinstein, '33, St. Joseph County boys' probation officer; Cyril Costello, 
M.A. Boy Guidance 1929, and Frank Cane, M.A. Boy Guidance 1936, both of the Knights of Colubus Boy Life Bureau will be on the' faculty of the session, as will three priests' of the Fort Wayne diocese active in organi­zation work . Father Westemdorf, 
C.Y.O. director. Father Hennes, di­rector of the Fort Wayne deanery, and Father John J. Moscal, director of the South Bend deanery. 
This course, a ramification of the Knights of Columbus boy work begun with the establishment of the course at Notre Dame in 1924, is one of a series throughout the United States, which is contributing greatly under the leadership of the alumni listed above, to the development of a Catho­lic boys' program. 
Summer Visitors The above scheduled meetings are in addition to the daily hundreds of visitors to the campus who come from the various parts of the coun­try and stop to see one of America's most popular schools. Under the di­rection of the Alumni Office, two stu­dents are acting as guides for visitors during the summer, and the Alumni Office is preparing a souvenir pam­phlet for visitors. 
Church Design 
Awards 
Three Alumni Are Recognized 

Many alumni, by residence or by contribution, are interested in the construction of small churches for limited parishes or mission work. The Department of Architecture of the University of Notre Dame conducted tills Spring a competition in the field, the drawings submitted to become the property of the Department an d available for use in practical Church extension. 
Professionally, on the basi s of awards made in a field of 27 final entries, it was pleasing to find that three Notre Dame architects were among those recei\'ing awards or mentions. 
The jury met in the Architectural Building on May 22 and was com­posed of the following members: j 
Eev. Michael Andrew Chapman, P.E., of Lafayette, Indiana, a fre­quent contributor to Liturgical Arts upo n liturgy; Harold Maurer, of Maurer and Maurer, architects of South Bend; T. ClifTord Noonan, '24, architect of Chicago, and Thomas E. Cooke, '24, architect of Chicago. 
The awards were made as follows: first prize: John W. Davis, Urbana, Illinois; second prize: Bernard E. Losh­baugh, '29, Washington, D.C.; third prize: George W. Edwards, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; mention commended: Michael F. Gaul, '35, and John C. Voosen, Chicago; Bitt Atkinson, Col­lege of Architecture, Cornell Univer­sity, Ithaca New York; mentions: Herman H. Meinberg, St. Paul, Min­nesota; Morris C. Hertel, '36, Chicago, and Myron E. Pauley, Stillwater, Min­
nesota. 
A number of designs were discard­ed early from consideration as these represented types that had been built many hundred times as the solution of a small church. Search was made for those designs that showed an ap­preciation of the limitations of the problem in providing for the seating of 200 with a limited amount of cubage in the church. 
The design of Mr. Davis, an instruc­tor at the University of Illinois, was considered to show a good study of the problem and its exterior treat­ment was sufficiently simple and fresh 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
CAMPUS NOTES 
MEDALS, ETC. 
Comes the time for the end of the schoolyear and the annual banquet season and platform oratory orgy begin. AVhen all the retiring presidents have said their farewells and the final award has been hung about the last scrubbed neck, most everyone is too tired to care who got what. 
A short resume of what the campus will find in the seats of the mighty next year would probably include: editors, Tom Carty, Yonkers, N. Y., Dome; ,Tohn Meaney, Corpus Christi, Texas, Scrip; and Bill Fay, Mount Lebanon, Pennsylvania, Scholastic. 
In the ranks of the politically mighty , the class presidents are: senior Harry Boisvert, Waterloo, New York, who took a very close decision from Bill Coleman, Cleveland; junior "Rube" Marquardt, Oak Park, Illi­nois; sophomore Jack Kelly, Los An­geles. 
But ofiice holder number one on the campus next year is certain to be Al Funk, La Crosse, Wisconsin, who was unanimously elected presi­dent of both Bookmen and Wranglers. 
Scrip prizes for excellence in com­position were given to Charles Nel­son, Decatur, Illinois, and John Brod­erick, Allento\vn, Pennsylvania joint winners of the prose award; and to Donald Connors freshman from War­ren, Ohio, verse. 
Dome awards for the year went to Charles Colgan, who to this day doesn't know if he lives in Brooklyn or Buenos Aires, Argentina; to Bill Mahoney, Phoenix, Arizona; to George Morris, Detroit, Michigan; and to Vincent DeCoursey, Kansas City, Kansas. 
V 

NEW S. A. C. 
A newly revised S. A. C. will be in effect next year when the boys get themselves unpacked. Under Dan Donovan, New Hampton, Iowa, this year's S. A. C. president, and a se­lected committee, a new constitution, providing broader powers and a new election system, was drawn up. Only five representatives have been elected 
without promising too great a shock 
to the parishioners. 
The second prize design of Mr. Loshbough had a delightful plan that attracted the jury from the beginning —a plan that would serve the purpose well for whatever services might be held in so small a church. 
June, 1939 
 ^^ VINCENT W. OeCOURSEy. '39 

under the new plan, one man from each college. Bob Sullivan, Helena, Montana, is to be the temporary chairman in charge of everything tmtil the new president is elected in the fall. 
The other members of the commit­tee at present are: Gerard Donovan, Tulsa, Oklahoma, A.B.; Robert San­ford, Milwaukee, commerce; Dav e Sprafke, Meriden, Connecticut, engi­neering; Elmer Chaput, Detroit, sci­ence; and Robert Derengowski, Man­istee, Michigan, law. 
SLIPS 
The good old ninety-fifth Com­mencement of the University (only one of its kind in any place) was nm off in the approved grand style early this month, and 530-odd A.B.'s, B.S.'s, etc. were tossed to the wolves of the commercial world. Gross after gross of degrees were handed out with only one slip — Henry Rago, Chicago, im­mediately after being knighted with his M.A. toga, took six steps in only one jump to the amusement of the bleacherites. 
IN AND OUTERS 
Saturday night was the usual gay affair in the senior halls. Two boys from Alumni, for instance, came in at two to find the doors locked; im­mediately came the bright and orig­inal idea of the window climbing act. Sneaking around to the rear they carefully lowered themselves into a first floor room, all the while congrat­ulating themselves on their brilliant idea. So original was their scheme that the inhabitants of the room had found it necessary to provide a chair under the ^vindow, an open door into the hallway and a sign that said "Shut up." 
But our chief regret of the week­end was missing the sight of boss Mr. William Dooley climbing into a Dil­lon Hall window, finding himself, un­able to get into his room because of lack of key, and climbing right back out the same window. 
Farewell and cheerio! 

The competition, under the direc­tion of Professor Francis W. Ker­vick, not only stimulated a general interest in the field which was en­couraging, but resulted in the submis­sion of several plans that should pro­mote the beauty of churches in the small, low-priced category. 
June, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 227 
Hilgartner Heads New Officers 
Seasoned Slate Elected to Manage Association 
Affairs in 1939-40; Program Formulated by 
Directors and Club Council Forecasts Big Year 
The 1939-7940 4/uinnf Board 

Prof. William L. Benitz, '11, Notre Dame, Ind.  Honorary President  
Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Chicago, III.  President  
Henry C. Wurzer, '25, Davenport, Iowa  First Vice-President  
Keene Fitzpatrick, '13, San Francisco, Calif.  Second Vice-President  
James E. Armstrong, '25, Notte Dame, Ind  Secretary-Treasurer  
William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind.  Assistant Secretary  
Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, N. J.  Director to 1940  
Frands H. McKeever, '03, Chicago, 111.  Director to 1941  
Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, 111  Director to 1942  
John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich.  Director to 1943  
Ambrose A. O'Connell, '07, Washington, D.C.  Ex-Officio Director to 1940  

PRESIDENT HILGARTNER 

Alumni Association. As director of a growing hotel chain in the Middle West, Henry also travels a great deal and is in a position to meet many of the alumni and the Clubs throughout a wide area. 
It was Chicago Tribune day on the ballots. In addition to the president. 
District Governors for 1939-40 
1-—Northern Indiana and Southwestern 
MichiKar.: JOHN J. WALLACE, •27, Caa­
met City, Illinois. 
2.—ChicaKo: MARCELLUS M. OSHE. '12, 
Chicago. Utinois. 
3.—Ohio, Western Pennsylvania, West Vir-
Kinia: CLAYTON G. LEROUX, '27, Oeve­
land, Ohio. 
4.—Minnesota. Wisconsin. Northern Mich­igan: DANIEL M. COUGHUN, '22. Waseca, Minnesota. 
5.—Michican. (except Upper Peninsula and Southwestern counties): ALFRED N. SLAGGERT, '21, Detroit, Michisan. 
6.—New Jersey. Eastern Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, and the District of Co­lumhia: JOSEPH R. FARRELL. '15. Camp Hill, Pennsylvania. 
7.—New York City: JOHN T. BALFE, '20, 
New York Oty. 
S.—New York State (except New York City and suburhs). Judce HAROLD P. BURKE. '16, Rochester, New York. 
9.—New England: PAUL CASTNER. '23, West Hartford, Connecticut. 
10.—VirBinia, North and South Carolina: (XARENCE KAPLAN, '31, C3iarIotte, North Carolina. 
11.—Alabama, GeoTRia, Florida: THOMAS 
F. O'NEIL, '13, Miami, Florida. 
12.—Kentucky, Southern Indiana, and Ten­nessee: GALVIN G. HUDSON, '15, Memphis, Tennessee. 
13.—Louisiana. Mississippi and Arkansas: FABIAN N. JOHNSTON, '12. New Orleans. Louisiana. 
11.—Texas: BRYAN S. ODEM. '17, Hous­ton, Texas. 
15.—Kansas. Missouri. Oklahoma, Southern Illinois: ROBERT T. HELLRUNG. '30, St. Louis, Missouri. 
16.—Northern Illinois, Iowa and Nebraska: JOHN E. C^ASSIDY, '17, Peoria, Illinois. 
17.—Montana. Wyoming. North and South Dakota: ALBERT F. GUSHURST, '09, Lead. South Dakota. 
18.—Utah and Colorado: EUGEN E S . BLISH, '34, Denver, Colorado. 
19.—So. California. New Mexico, Arizona: FRANCIS J. BARRY, '03, Los Angeles, Cali­fornia. 
20.—^Northern California and Nevada: RO­BERT V. DUNNE. '2S, San Francisco, Call­fomia. 
21.—Washington, Oregon. Idaho: C3IARLES 
J. HIRSCHBUHL. '22. Portland, Oregon. 
22.—Foreign: PETER RONCHETTI. '18. Lille, France. 
The sturdy sons of Notre Dame who take time out to mark their bal­lots did the usual fine job this year on a slate which made their work easy. With the caliber of the candidates for all offices the Association couldn't lose, and the results came more from sectional activity and a broad-minded viewpoint on distribution of officers than from a weighing of individual merits. 

Honorary President 

For the first time, an Honorary President retired from his other du­ties to devote full time to his new Association office. The Alumni Office expects to utilize the sage counsels of Professor William L. Benitz as often as we can lure him into the place. Several of the Local Clubs have had phenomenal success when headed by engineers. We are going to try to apply the instruments to the Alumni Association while this happy situa­tion prevails for us during the year. 
President 

President is Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, whose inaugural address at the banquet revealed eight years on the campus as a prelude to one of the most loyal and regular alumni lives, from the standpoint of attendance at campus activities, the records show. Danny had to rush in a prep school identification to bring down the guest eyebrows. If there is a priest or brother in the Congregation wh o doesn't share acquaintance with the new president, or if there is a cranny or a custom on the campus that isn't kno\vn to the Association's new head, then the Alumni' Office will have to plead the same ignorance. And wth a boy in school for his sophomore year when September rolls around, it looks as if the Office is in for a year of its closest contact with Asso­ciation leaders that we have enjoyed for a long time. 

Vice-Presidents 

First Vice-President of the Associa­tion is Henry C. Wurzer, '25, Daven­port, Iowa. Henry knows Notre Dame himself, and has been in close touch in recent years, being a classmate of the director of athletics, the director of public relations, the University ar­chivist, the alumni secretary, and other campus celebrities. But long before he came to Notre Dame, Henry had inherited a rich tradition with its knowledge and its loyalties from his father, the late F. Henry Wurzer of Detroit, former president of the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus June, 1939 
who is an advertising executive of the WGNewspaper, the Second Vice-President for 1939-40 is Keene Fitz­patrick, '13, dynamic Pacific Coast representative of the Trib and other Eastern papers, who operates a good business and a swell personality out of San Francisco. Keene has long been a power in the Notre Dame Club of Northern California, has led an active Lay Retreat there in memory of Knute Eockne, and is a welcome addition to the directorate on the grounds of both personal acquaint­ance and general alunmi record. 
Director 
As the new director for the Four-Year term, the constituency chose John T. Higgins, '22. Jack is a part­ner in the law firm of Wurzer & Hig­gins in Detroit, which gives us a coincidence on the Board that will ring familiarly to him. An indication that he is an active alumnus came when his election was announced at the banquet and his absence was ex­plained as caused by honeymooning. It will be difficult to expect too much from him in the way of absences from Detroit, but we have four years to in­trude. Jack has been active in the Detroit Club, serving a term as pres­ident, and laying some of the founda­tion which is reflected in the present splendid work of that organization. 
Outgoing Officers 

The Alumni Office cannot let the 19i38-39 officers go without an expres­sion of appreciation. Circumstances of • professional advancement made it difficult for Ambrose O'Corinell to ap-' pear at many of the functions of the year that the president ordinarily graces. But there were hours and days, paid for undoubtedly by long overtime in his own work, that were devoted to the interests of Notre Dame and the alumni. 
Joe McGljTin came to bat in the 12th' (month) as a pinch-hitter at both the Senior-Alumni Banquet and the Commencement Alumni Banquet itself. On both occasions he scored clean hits that advanced runners on all the bases. 
Jim Phelan had a hard time func­tioning from the Seattle sector as Second Vice-President, but has been a constant source .of contact there re­flected to the advantage of Notre Dame in many ways. 
"In the retirement of Don P. O'Keefe from the Board • of Directors after four active years,- the Board- loses one of the highest types of Notre Dame inen,, but the .Associa.tion has no in­tention of sacrificing anything of Don's support other, than the purely titular. A-serious illness this Spring has been a source of.deep regret to all of Don's friends and our regret at his departure from the Board is accompanied by sincere good ^vishes, for quick recovery. 

Ambrose O'Connell takes the place on the board as Past President which = Bill Cotter occupied this year. But Bill's activity in Notre Dame affairs is too perennial to depend on title,­too, and the curren t newspapers '. reveal him in the Father O'Hara entourage in Venezuela. ". 
John O'Connor, director for the Class of 1938,.was a loyal and help­ful member of the Board, enjoying • proximity to the Office as a law sturl dent. 
The Association will join the Alum-­ni Office in wishes, for improved health , for Rev. Matthew. Walsh," C.S.C, retiring Honorary President.. 
Alumni Clubi 
AKRON 
Hnch Celofir, '33, R.F.D. 4. President; Jolm Doran, '33, «9 E. Mill Street, Secretmtr. T. < 
National Notre Dame Night w-as • lield in.. conjunction with .the Cleveland - Notre Dame. Club at the Statler Hotel in Clcyeland." Ap­proximately 40 staunch Notre Dame men mi­grated to Cleveland to participate in this annual event. Cleveland, of course, was the hub of Notre Dame activity for the universe. Needless to say the Akron club played no-small part in the success of the evening. . 
Directly after the meeting the Akron club members retired to their rooms in'the.hotel.­when the annual club election was held. Ed •. Raub, president; Joe' Krakcr. vice-president; Al Hilkcrt, treasurer; Claude Horning, .secre^'^ tar>-. "V • • 
Bill Cunningham, Akron Notre Dame bbost-­er, was elected an honorary .member of :.the'; club. Ed Raub, our new president has a.full " schedule of summer club activities planned. "• 

Joe Krakcr, Ed Raub, Frank Steel, Dr.. Charles. Doran,- Joe Wozniak, Paul -Bertsch, Virg. Kline (now practicing law in Coluriibus,^ Ohio) Hugh Colopy, are a few of the Akron men that were to be at Notre Dame for Com-. mencemcnt in June. 
Claude Homing.' ' 
BUFFALO 

William P. Cass, '32, 235 Capen Blvd., Pres­ident; Frank J. Cass, *35, 233 Capen Bird.,. . Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo held its annual Father and Son picnic oh. Sunday. June 11. at the American Legion clubhouse on Wehrle Drive, Witliamsville, New York. Bob Moore, who had been . ap­pointed chairman by President Bill Cass,­started the festivities at 1:30 p.m. with- an. appropriate ceremony. A softball game fdl-­lowed between the married and the sin^e" men, the honors going to the team which .had trained on their wives' cooking. 
Among other activities of the day were horseshoe pitching, shumeboard,-cards,-- and-bull sessions between the new and older liiem­bers. At 6 p.m. the club "was served.a ste^k, dinner in the clubhouse and everybody^ present * Was introduced to the alumni. Many members of the campus club were present and Bill Cass asked all the alumni to remember the campus club dance on June 24, at the Launch Club oh Grand' Island.- Many have already made 

' -plans to attend this annual summer dance w*hich has always been popular with the alumni in the Builalo area. 
, . .Among those seen at the picnic were Frank 
• Kellncr. Mike Shccdy, Sr. with his sons Dan, ' Paul and Joe, Henry Weiss, Dr. Robert Bums, ..Bern Uebbing, Hank Hauser, Frank O'Marah, 
' Ron Zudcck and his father, Jim Moulder, Dick Danahy, George Fcrrick and his father. Bob Moore. Ed Desmond, Jack Travers, Norm An­
- derson. Bill Fallon, Morry Kellcy, Bill and 
Frank Cass and their father. Frank Cass. 
CANTON, OHIO 
Robert C Streb, '32, 1319 Worley Ave., 
• N.W,, Preaident; George P. Maloney, Jr., *34. 922 Ridse Road, N.W., Secretary. 

:. , ,Carr>'ing out a fine program of activities, th e club planned a stag meeting for June, . 'according to word from President Bob Streb. 
* This, was to follow a successful observance of 
• Universal Notre Dame Night, w*hen 30 couples 

.'and some singles presented themselves for a '••'very enjoyable dinner. 
CLEVELAND 
John J. Collins, '32, 1090 Union Commerce Bidg., President; Kichard P. Prezcbcl, *35, SUO Bulkley Bldg., Secretary-. 
This being your correspondent's first letter as secretary, it. will, probably be a. little slug­gish as to style, but here goes anyhow, and let the regrets fall where they may. 
Jack Collins w*as elected president of the local .-Notre Dame Club at our annual business meeting at Hotel Statler in May. Jack is asso­ciated' with 'the -local law firm of Halle, Har­ris, Haber & Berick in the Union Commerce Building. The other oiTicers elected, are: Ed. Killecn, vice-president; Jim Uprichard, treas­urer and your scribe was, of course, the vic­tim, chosen for • the office.of secretary. Don Miller is the honorary president and Father Moriarty, the chaplain. 
' J)r.-Joe Hcimann, whose record as a success­ful ..obstetrician makes him the ideal mate for-a deserted island, was chosen chairman of the Board-of Governors. Other members of the Bpard-are Chuck Rohr, Art Bccvar, Dr. Frank Gannon, Karl Martersteck, "Joe Gavin, Al Lat^'ton, .Bob Morrisscy'and Tom Schrincr; Bud- Raddatz is the publicity director and Ralph Huller, the membership secretary*. 
-Saw!.;quite a few of our localites on the canipiis over Commencement week-end. Among them were Ed Carey, Norm Dugan, Jerrj' Rcidy, Al Shipacassc, John Fb-nn, Father Mor­iarity, Pat Canny, Joe Gavin, Bill Van Rooj-, JCK;:-Fitzgerald, John Venablcs,. Dick McMon-agle^.Tony Anzlovar, John Beglcy and Karl Slartersteck. Karl, incidentally, has taken over the-'-.j<?b of division engineer formerly held" bj?"'hi^ boss, Marty Brcnnan. Marty has been. 
• transferred to Buffalo' as manager. Their em­ployer, is the Great Lakes Dredge" & T)ock Co."; hotlieid.'of Notre-Dame men.-­
' ~Persbhality Palaver".... Bob Leonard, ex-Ci^-.elander," jsno w with the Nylon division of 
•puPbnl in Wilmington, Delaware and plans to 

be-'married", in November... Beverly .Orem of. . . Swarthmqre; Pennsylvania, .is his fiancee..., 
•
 Art_^Cmrey_'is .with-.the Department pf Justica 

•'and'w'brking..on"
 his Jirst case in. Dallas, Texas. 


•
 Jtrfin.. "Sarge" Raleigh was recently made 


- credit »manager\oC the Hotel Allerton.... St. J6hV^.:Cathedral,.will, be the- scene of Tom . 

June, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Conley's marriage to Mary Conway late this month.... Bob Hackman is doinif accounting for, the East Ohio Gas Co. .. . Lucian Bloom completed a course at Cleveland Ad School recently and Has already landed a job in Detroit.... Bud Raddatz has just returned from the West where he took unto himself a wife. Mrs. R. is the former Ellen Whitaker of Spokane, Washington. 
Richard PrczcbcL 

DETROIT 
Howard F. Bcechinor. ex. '06, 1300 Union Guardian Bldg., President; Malcolm F. Knaus. '26, 423 Curtis Bldf., Secretary. 

The Detroit Club's June meeting was held Tuesday night, June 6, to give the boys who were at Commencement an extra daj- to re­cover. Incidentally, it was nice to sec you and Bill Doolcy Saturday at Notre Dame and, no doubt, you saw several other Detroiters. Some of those I know were i>resent included: How­ard Bccchinor, Frank McGinnis, Gcorce Han-Ian, Jack Brccn, Ed Moriarity, John Brcnnan, Gus Dontis, who gave one of the Memorial dedication addresses, of course. Ernie Lajoic, Bob Ncydon. Bud^ Stillman and probably you saw dozens of othe.-s that I didn't see. Two former Detroiters we.-e there, namely Bill Mc-CuUouRh, now in 3Iansfield, Ohio, and Gcoree Costcllo. now in Chicago. 
But to go on with the June meeting. We shifted the scene to Joey's Stables. It sounds horsey but it's a dandy place. Tliere were 45 for dinner and we had a large section to our­selves which could be closed off for the meet­ing. During dinner, the orchestra played all the Notre Dame songs and we sang the Vic­tor>' March for our own and the other patrons' enjoyment. 
Van Wallace, his father, mother and aunt were our guests. Also we had Harry Wismer. Detroit sports commentator over WJK, who is also vice - president of the Detroit Ltons professional football team. He gives Notre Dame and our club much valuable cooperation and publicity and already has plans to put over Elmer Laydcn as coach at the all-star game in August. Hunk Anderson, tine coach for the Detroit Lions, is our particular spur, naturally, in obtaining this help. 
There wore many new faces at the meeting. Jack DcGursc and E. Louis Chausee were there for instance. Then there were some brand-new 1939 grads at our meeting (one Tim Bradley amongst others) whom we ex­pect to see fretiuently next season. Tom Hayes who works for the government has been out a couple of times the last few months as has also Vince Stacc; Notre Dame-fan­extraordinary Larrj- Gcmon was there. An­other I hadn't seen before was Russell Chris­tie ; Line Wurzcr, Art Cronin and Lowell Comcrford (last year's officers) were out in a body which is really notable, because it seems that when a group finishes a year's executive struggles with the Detroit Club they don't want to show up again. Jim Foren is an old faithful and Charles Lcnnan has been regular. Phil Fetz, Charles Schlcgcl and Roy 
• Barron have been showing up too. Marc Vcr­biest wired that he'couldn't be present and Gil Schacfer couldn't make it either. Oh yes! Eddie Polhaus' came back after a long absence. He left Graham and is working for Ford now. 
Myron Anderson (Hunk's brother), Jim Walker, Rcmi Renier, Arthur O'Brien, Ray Brett were others that I remember. Of course, the officers—Howard Bccchinor, Frank McGin­nis. Dr. Neil Whalcn and yours truly, Malcolm Knaus.' were present. 
• Practically the . entire evening was given over to the event foremost in our minds at the present time as this is written, and that is the plans and preparations to send Van Wallace to Lourdcs this summer. We are having a ten-bout boxing show at University of Detroit Stadium Tuesday night, June 14, at which Gene Tunney will referee. Frank Mc-Ginnis is heading the publicity and doing a swell job of it. It's been plastered alt over the newspapers for the last few days and Van's picture has been taken with every notable and in every conceivable spot. Philip Fctz is in charge of ticket sales. But there will be a detailed report to you after the event. 

Malcolm F. Knaus 

HARRISBURG 
Robert M. Johnston. '33, Box 108, President; 
Joseph R. Farrcll, '13, 32 N- 27th St., Camp 
Hill, Pa.. Secretary. 

Ambrose O'ConncU, former president of the Alumni Association, was one of the chief speakers on May 1 at the annual dinner-meet­ing of the Catholic College Alumni of Central Pennsylvania held in the Hotel Hershey, Her­shey, Pennsylvania. Joe Farrell was the gen­eral chairman of the committee in charge and John McNeill and Vince Schneider worked with Joe, together with representatives of the other colleges participating. The Notre Dame club as a unit was especially active in the promotion of the affair and deser\-es the wide commendation that it received. 
President John McNeill spoke briefly at the dinner, representing the Notre Dame club. Rt. Rev. John L. Sheridan, president of Mt. Mary's College, and i\Iost Rev. George L. Leech, D.D., bishop of Harrisburg, were other principal speakers. 
The club observed Universal Night, April 17, with a dinner. The Catholic Alumni dinner, originally planned for that night, was post­poned to avoid a conflict with another like affair. 
New officers of the club are Robert M. Johnston, *33, president; Frank Barbush. *37, vice-president; Joe Farrell, *15, secretary: and John McNeill, '33, treasurer. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
J. Albert Smith, '34, 2218 N. Meridian St.. 

• President; Elbert W. JIahoncy, '26. 393G Central Avenue, Sccretao". 
Reporting on the Indianapolis club activi­ties, we have been having fine success with our regular weekly Monday noon luncheons. An average of 45 members have been in at­tendance to hear the prominent speakers ar­ranged' for by our president, Al Smith, and other members of the club. Among these speakers were Pat Manion; Lt. Gov. Henry 
L. Shricker; Secretary of State Jim Tucker; 
W. F. Fox. Jr.; Pete Depaolo and Jimmy Schneider, famous race drivers; and Peter C. Reilly, who was awarded an honorar>- degree by the University this year. 
On Thursday night. May 18, the club had an informal dinner and dance at the AVharf House. 
The annual golf tournament is July 10 at the Indianapolis Country Club. Joe Argus, chairman of the golf" tournament committee, announces that an excellent program has been arranged and all Notre Dame men who can conveniently come to Indianapolis are invited to do so and enjoy the golf game, dinner and a share in the awards. 
All the fellows who were up at Commence­ment exercises, including myself, had a swell time and want to thank you for the fine pro­gram arranged. 

E. W. Maboney. 

NEW YORK CITY 
Daniel D. Halpin. *31. 420 RiTcraide Dr^ 
President; Robert A. Hamilton, *28, €2 Wall 
St., Secretary. 
Despite the advance of the summer's heat waves, club activity has not slowed. On May 23, a Baseball Meeting was held with over 100 attending. Jim . Rizer, as . chairman, secured two fine speakers in Johnnie Farrell of golfing fame and Max Marck, the only, other fighter to defeat Joe Louis (as an amateur). Johnnie gave us a few tips on correct golfing form and Max told us what he would do to Louis if he ever got him into the ring' again. We then had a showing of the National Baseball League's movie celebrating the centennial year of baseball, which proved very interest­ing and gave us the background of the game. Following came the BIG surprise of the eve­ning when whom should enter as the lights came up but Father O'Hara. Father said he had dropped into town for the installation of our new- prelate. Ardibishop Spellman. He wished w*e had these installations more often as he liked to come on to see us. Bob Ham­ilton, he said, had told him there was a club 
meeting but had neglected to sny where, so 
that he had spent some three hours looking 
for us. 
On May 24 members of the Board'of Gov­ernors had the honor of attending the first lay reception to Archbishop Spellman. Our new archbishop, incidentally, is a club member because he received an honorary degree from the University several years ago. . 
The next big event on our calendar is a Summer Formal to be held June 23 at the Tavern-on-the-Green. Don Sehl is chairman of this affair, which we are running "together with the Metropolitan Club from the campus. It promises to be a very gay affair. 
July 27 has been ofTicially designated as Notre Dame Day at the New York World's Fair (we're trying hard to get Grover to Ry our flag from the top of the Trylon). All of you men from all over the country are invited to try and make your visit coincide with this date. Jack McGratfa, chairman of the Summer Outing, is taking advantage of the date and intends to run the Outing at the same time. In addition to a group which will tour the Fair together, he is making arrangements for the devotees of sport to golf, play tennis or swim at nearby resorts. A dinner spot will be designated so everyone can meet-and eat together. It looks - like a gala time at one of the greatest exhibits of our time. 
For the benefit of World's Fair visitors the club will have a copy of its directory on hand at the Center Club, 120 Central Park South. Drop in when you are in town and look up the correct address of your old friends. We have over 800 names and addresses listed. 
Within the very near future the club hopes to have its program on the air waves over Station AVWRL in Queens. Ed Ganningham has his script writers hard at work:right now dramatizing the history of •' Notre Daine. Among ' the scribblers 'are' Colnian O'Shangh­nessy, John Moran. Don Sehl, Bad Goldman, Jim Rorke,' Gene Healy^ John Masterso'n and Don Brice. 
The Scholarship Committee under - Chairman John Balfe is making preparations - to select its fifth boy to be sent to Notre Dame. 
. For the rest-of the year in addition to our 
The Notre Dame Alumnus June, 1939 
regular monthly meetings we have the follow­ing schedule set up ; September 15-17, annual Retreat at the Bishop Molloy Retreat House, Jamaica. Long Island; Friday night Novem­ber 3, our annual Army-Notre Dame rally and Reunion; Sunday, December 10, the sec­ond annual Universal Notre Dame Communion Breakfast. 
Jordan Hargrove 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Thomas Duricin. '37, Radio Station KROW, Bcllevue Hotel, San Francisco, President; Howard Parker, '17, 219 StaU BIdg., San Francisco, Secretary. 
The members of the Notre Dame club of Northern California met at the Olympic Club, San Francisco, for the annual Universal Night broadcast. Following the national program from Cleveland, Paul Gushing and Tom Dur-kin conducted a 15-minute N. D. broadcast over local station KROW. This I believe marks the first time that a school program has orig­inated in California on behalf of increased interest in Notre Dame in the vicinity of the San Francisco Bay area. 
Following a late dinner, officers of the club were elected for the coming year. Tom Dur-kin, '37 follows Paul Gushing, '31 as president. Paul Enright, '31 is the new vice-president, and Howard Parker, 'IT, secretary. 
The club wishes to report a very active year with the prospect of even greater things for 1939-40. In addition to the local broadcast, we have to our credit the second annual Rock­ne Memorial Retreat, the annual meeting at the Army-Na^-y Club for the N. D.-Army game, our large delegation to Los Angeles for the Southern California game, our privilege of playing host to Elmer and the team on their visit to San Francisco and the Fair, and several other informal gatherings throughout the year. 
Among those present at the latest "session" were: Paul Gushing, Kecnc Fitzpatrick, Bob McDonald and his guest. Tommy Fitzpatrick, top Coast football official whose boy is now a Junior at N. D., Brccn 3IcDonaId, Howard Parker, Tom Durkin, Lloyd Stolich, Paul En-right, Elmer Wj-nnc, Jcrc Sulli\-an, Phil Kelly, and several others including Bill Rapp, San Francisco's No. 1 N. D. booster. 
Tom Durkin 
PHILADELPHIA 
Thomas E. Byrne, Jr., '34, "Wayside," Phoentx\-iIlc, Pa., President; Thomas F. J. Carroll, ex. '31, 1209 Lewis Tower BIdg., Sccretary-
The Spirit of Notre Dame ran rampant throughout the City of Brotherly Ixjve on the night of April 17. From all parts of the city the boys were drawn to the M.L.A. Club to join with all other units of the alumni to pay tribute to our Alma &Iater. While all thoughts were on the food, suddenly the voices and music of the national broadcast filled the room with that good old Notre Dame spirit. IndiWdually we returned to the campus in thought. 
At the conclusion of the broadcast from the campus'the importance and imprcssiveness of Notre Dame was emphasized by pictures of the coronation of our outstanding alumnus. His Holiness Pope Pius XIL These pictures were furnished and shown through the gra­ciousness of our own Bill GastelUni and the courtesy of the Franklin Institute where Bill holds forth as director of public relations. Many thanks to you. Bill. 
Jade Solon, comparatively new in our midst, of the class of *38, brought about an innova­tion in the Philadelphia Club—an individual local 15-minute broadcast over station "WFll*. We are deeply indebted to Jack and to Mrs. Margaret C. Schaeffer, program director of ^VFIL, who generously donated the radio time. Our sincere appreciation to them both and to ^^T^L. 

Cliff Prodehl and Tom Carroll had the chance to make their debut as radio actors, thanks to Jack Solon. Jack wrote the script— an incident in the life of Rockne. selected the characters and directed the whole program. Jack is on the regular staff of "WFIL an­nouncers. Vernon Crawford and Roy La-Plante, actors of the radio station staff, gave the program the professional touch and over­came the nervousness of our t\vo amateur 
•'radio entertainers," We are deeijly grateful to them both. 
Our gathering ended with a lively floor show, after which the formal festivities ceased. 
The officers for the coming year are: 

President, Thomas E. Byrne, Jr.; vice-president. Jack Matthews; secretary, Tom Carroll; treasurer, Pat Con»^ay; Board of Govemors,Jack Kcnney, Joe Wackerman; ser­geant at arms, Al D'Amora. 
Thomas F. J. Carroll, Jr. 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS WiUiam F. Bembrock. '35, 718 S. 8th St.. President; William M. White, '21, 621 S. 7di St., Secretary. 
The club's annual Mother's Day Communion and breakfast were the feature of May 14. The members, according to a note from Sec­retary Bill While, continued a most laudable custom by receiving Holy Communion in a body in the Immaculate Conception cathedral. Later, breakfast was sen'ed in the Palm Room of the Leland Hotel, with the feminine aux­iliary as special and honored guests. Rev. Ben­edict P. Killackj*. chaplain of the local Ursu­line Convent, was the breakfast speaker. Harry Argus and Paul McGonncU were in charge of the morning. 
Bill Cour and John Troy arranged a dinnsr and smoker at the K. of G. club on May 25. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Frank 3Cles, ex. '22, 1405 E. McKinley Ave., South Bend, Ind., President; Clarence Hard­ing, *25, South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Ind., Secretary'. 

The able and enthusiastic Frank Allies, new president of the club, directed two annual functions within recent weeks. The first, on May 9, was the fifth annual Golf Blow-Out and dinner at the Coquillard Golf Club, South Bend. Elmer Layden wus again the chairman and everybody but the clubhouse cat and the managing editor got a prize of some sort, in competition or by drawing. Art Haley, Herb Jones and Bill Sheehan assisted in taking reser\'ations. 
John Gibbons and Mrs. Eddie Mechan were cochairmen of the spring dance on June 9 at Melody Gardens on June 9 and Mrs. Bill Sheehan w*as in charge of the euchre tourna­ment w*hich preceded the tcrpsichorean tourna­ment. 
ST. LOUIS WiUiam H. Leahy. Jr., '28, 1401 Arcade BIdg., President; Albert J. Ra\-arino, '35, 4651 Shaw St.. Secretary*. 
President Bill Leahy sends word of a sui)er­successful Universal Night observance in St. Louis. A stag gathering at the Edgewater Club drew an excellent turnout of 135 alumni and guests. The evening's activities included sound pictures of the coronation of Pope Pius XH, a film of the famed Ohio State-N. D. game of 1935, luncheon, bowling, talking—and more talking. Harry O'Boyle, new in St. Louis (with Chevrolet), was a welcome new face. 
Local radio stations cooperated ideally with the club and the University. KWK carried the NBC program from Cleveland and the campus and kindly inserted a special "plug" for the club and the local meeting. KMOX, the local CBS outlet, had two . Notre Dame spots, one on the program of Gricsdieck Brothers, the other on the "View of the News" feature of Harry Flannery, '23. Harry, feature news an­nouncer and interpreter of KMOX, not only is soundly established as a St. Louis radio figure but also appeared a few months ago on a national news interpretation program with H. V. Kaltenbom. 
SYRACUSE 
Frederick T. DeLany, '30, 136 Stolp Are,, President; William N, McCormick, '34, Syracuse Herald, F'-retary-

The annual golf tournament of the club will be held at Skaneateles Country Club in August, Jim Hnxford said in a recent letter. Another tournament, between the Syracuse alumni and Cortland alumni, is also in pros­pect, at the Cortland Country Club, accord­ing to Jim's dope. 
WABASH VALLEY Undiana) Vint D. Vaughan. '17, 703 Lafayette Life BIdg., Lafayette, President; Richard Haugfa, '29, 312 N. 4th St., Lafayette, Secretary. Vint Vaoghan was elected president of the club at its annual banquet in April. Dick Haugh was chosen as secretary-treasurer. Both are from Lafayette. Indiana. 
In sending word of the banquet and elec­tion, Vint asked for a new list of Wabash Valley alumni and kindly offered all assistance of the club in Notre Dame activities. 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Charies L. Farris. >33, 223 N. Glebe Road, Ariington, Va., President; Samuel E. Rich­ards, ex. '30, 2335 40th St.. N.W., Secretary. 

James F. Reilly, assistant corporation coun­sel for the District of Columbia, gave an in­teresting talk on the subject entitled "Jdy Impressions of Notre Dame" at the club meet­ing on May 1. His remarks, which were in­structive as well as entertaining, were well received by the membership from the stand­point of coming from one of that group of enthusiastic supporters who have adopted No­tre Dame as their alma mater. 
The celebration of the first annual field Day, which was held on May 20 on the ath­letic field of Holy Cross College, Brookland, 
D. C, turned out to be a most enjoyable and entertaining day for the members and the seminarians at the college. A softball game between teams composed of members and sem­inarians, together with horseshoe matches and other novelty events, provided the gathering with a continuous round of fun and enter­tainment. Owing to the fact that many mem­bers came up with "charley-horses" and couldn't gain their second wind, the Softball game had to be called at the end of the fourteenth inning, with the teams deadlocked at 17 all. 
In order to allow the members sufficient time to get back into condition, it was decided to postpone the play-off game until the cele­bration of the second annual field day. An old-fashioned picnic on the order of "catch­as.catch.can," which included hot-dogs with all the trimmings, wound up the day in grand 
June, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
fashion. BUI Jones and his committee are to be conKratuIated for the success of this event which exceeded the expectations of those who attended. 
Francis B. Donohne, '25, is still one of our leading "eliBibles" and is an attorney in the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation. Francis 
N. Andary, '30, is making quite a success as the owner of a novelty shop on 1027-17th St., 
N. W., and specializes in souvenirs from all nations. Charles P. Neill, *93, is in the brok­erage business, with offices in the Investment Building. 
Thomas Qualtcrs, '28, is the President's per­sonal body^ard. Ralph Zimmerman, '29, is a husband and proud father and is connected with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-• tion. John T. Baczenas, *I7, is married and is with the Loans and Currency Division of the Bureau of Printing and Engraving. Ed Kil­murry, *35, is also one of our promising bachelors and is an attorney in the National Emergency Council. 
The dance committee under Murray Russell is making plans and arrangements for the annual summer dance, the date of which will be announced later. 
President Farris, '33, was out of the city for three weeks on business. Mi. "Harris is Chief of the Auditing Division t>t the Soil Conser\-ation Service. 
Bill Jones, '29, and his better half are leav­ing the early part of next week for an vix­tended motor trip through the west to attend the International Reposition at San Francisco. Bill says they expect to be away for two months. 
Samuel E. Richards. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
John J. Ryan, *2fi, 6345 Morrowfield Ave., PittsburKb, President; J.Vincent Burke, Jr., '33, 6938 Edgcrton Ave., Pittsburgh, Sec­retary. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was one of the most successful and best attended affair we have had in a long time. A buffet supper was held in the Roosevelt Hotel and was attended by approximately 60 members of the club. In addition to the broadcast from Cleveland, we had time on each of the four radio stations here in Pittsburgh and interesting talks were given by members. Rev. Vincent Brennan of Tarentum, Pennsylvania, spoke on one station and Rev. Donald Nealis, Retreat Master at 
St. Paul's Monastery in Pittsburgh, spoke on one of the others. 
At the Roosevelt that evening there were present among others, Eugene J. Coyne, who had received special permission from his bride-to-be to be out for an evening, and Fritz Wilson, who was likewise there under leave. John Ryan, Al Dicbold and Jack Shecdy came together. The old guard was reprsented by Leo Vogcl, John J. Breslin, Vince Sweeney, John Reardon and Ben Kaiser. 
Turk Meinert, as usual, was the life of the party. Gene Edwards came dovra from St. Vin­cent's College to spend the evening with the boys. George Schill, Ed Nebel, Dr. Ridiard 0*TooIc, Pinky Martin and Jim McSIahon were very much in evidence. Bob Fulton, Iggy Tocovctti, and Bob Flint reminisced about old times. Incidentally Bob Flint left Pittsburgh the next day to set up a law office in Cbuder-Fport. Pennsylvania. Joe O'Rourke looked in on the boys for an hour or so. 
Toward the end of the evening a business meeting was held and the following officers were elected for the coming year: 
President, John J. Ryan; vice-president. 

George Kingsley; treasurer, Ed Nebel; secre­tary, Vince Burke. 
The retiring president, Hugh Gallagher, was in charge of the meeting and at the end of the meeting the retiring officers were given a vote of thanks by the members. 
Upon motion by Pinky Alartin, duly sec­onded by Smokcy Coj-nc, J. L. O'Toole was made an honorary member of the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania. 
Vince Burke. 

Surprisingly, the noon luncheons (every Thursday) have been better attended lately than they were before. This is all the more amazing when one realizes that there is no current football actvity to bolster attendance. Football activity is not altogether dead as Carnegie Tech informs us that next year's game is quickly approaching a sell-out even at this early date. John McMahon, John Rear­don, Leo Voge!, Leo O'DonncU, Hugh Galla­gher, John Ryan, Joe O'Rourke, John O'Toole, EC. O'Brien and Vince Sweeney have become regvlars to replace Fritz Wilson, Ed. Byrnes, Turit Meinert, Jack Sheedy' and M Diebold, 
who are not so consistent any more. Perhaps the fact that Fritz AVilscn is to be married today (June 1) has something to do with the lack of attendance. Smokcy Coyne likewise will be married on June 14. Tora Dann, one of our members, is the father of a baby girl, I hear. 
i see in the papers that Bill O'Toole and Larry O'Donnell were slightly injured in an automobile accident last week. 
We will be back strong in the fall and will probably be able to give the golf ratings at that time. Meantime the luncheons continue every Thursday at the Hotel Henry, 12:15. 
Vince Burke. 
7937 Legal Directory 
(Additions and dianges) 
ILLINOIS 

Chicago 
Munizzo. Joseph R., LL.B., "32 134 N . LaSallc Street 
Jeffere. Howard F., LL.B., "36 6322 S. Western Avenue 
IOWA 

BcUcvue 
Kempter. Paul E.. Jr.. LL.B.. '34 
P. O. Box 4 
NEW YORK 
Lockporl 
Miller, William E.. A.B., "35 401 Bewley Building 
Ljfons 
Haney, Louis F.. Ph.B. Cora.. 79 County Seat 
Ncm Yorli Cily 
Dunnigan. James J.. A.B.. "34 
41 E. 42nd Street 
Fitzgerald, Hugh F.. A.B.. "34 2 Rector Street 
Hoyt, John A.. Jr., B.C3., 33 20 Vesey Street 
PENNSYLVANIA 
CouJcrsporl 
Flint, Robert J.. A.B., 3 3 Office of W . F . Dubois. Esq. 
ENROLLMENT 

Sophomore, Jtinior and Senior accommodations for the semester beginning in September have all been reserved and there is a wait­ing list of some 280 students, most of whom were enrolled during the year just ended. It is improbable that any students with advanced standing wishing to transfer from other schools can be accepted. 
There are. still a limited number of accommodations for beginning freshmen but these are being re­served rapidly. Alumni in contact with promising prospective stu­dents are urged to have them file applications wit h the Registrar without delay. Alumni wishing to advise prospective students may secure printed lists of entrance re­quirements, an d expenses, and other literature on request from the Registrar. 
J 
BACCALAUREATE SERMON 
(Continued from Page 214) 

glory and then vanish in utter dark­ness, no one knows whither; multi­tudes ebb and flow like the restless billows of the sea, today they are here and tomorrow the winds of heaven are singing sad requiems over their graves,-but this immortal line of teachers endures forever. 
Without that divine commission this great University, which we aU ad­mire and love, could never have come into existence. Without the divine inspiration, issuing from the lips of Christ, that long line of consecrated men, whose courage, zeal, enthusiasm and vision have made this grand in­stitution of learning possible, could never have been formed. Across the centuries comes to them the divine command — "Go ye, therefore, and teach." The Master has spoken. "Theirs not to make reply, theirs not to reason why; theirs but to do or die." I venture to affirm that no-Avhere in America under similar cir­cumstances has such a magnificent 
and beneficent monument of daunt­less courage, tireless zeal, far-sighted vision and consecrated loyalty been erected. Notre Dame, not only your own devoted alumni, but the hier­archy, the priests and the laity salute and revere you! May you go forward on your God - appointed course to greater triumphs in the future than any you have known in your glorious past! 
The Notre Dame-Alii'mnlis June, ,1939 
» » »
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the fol­lowing engacement£: 
Miss Kathryn Acnes Nelson and Andrew 
T. Shieblcr, '32, of Brooklyn, New York. 
Miss Marie Dorothy AVilliams and John A. Jordan. '32, of New York Citj'. 
Miss Marie F. Hagcmillcr and J. Donald Snlli%-an. '32, of Caldwell. New Jersey. 
Miss Mary,McKay and John AL Byrne, '37, of Phoenixville, Pennsylvania. 
Miss Margaret Louis Bardo and C. Joseph Kalman, '37, of Washington, D. G. 
Miss Alma Matclski and John -F. Ryan, '24, of Canton, Pennsyh-ania. 
Miss Ellen Eaton and Arthur L. Himbcrt, '32, of New Smyrna, Florida. 
Miss Mary Louise Lytle and John Albert Hart, '38, of North Branford, Connecticut. 
Marriages 
Miss Estelle Bridgett Utipatrick and John 
T. Biggins, ,'22, were married. May 25, in Detroit, Michigan. 
The marriage of Miss Mar^' Ellen Kelly and Francis E. Da\-id, Jr., '28, took place. May 27, in New Orleans, Louisiana. 
Miss Anna Alay Grant and John C Short, *28, were married, February 15, in Reading Pennsylvania. 
Miss Martha Eileen Page and Francis J. Wilson, '28, were married, June 1, in Pitts­burgh. 
The marriage of Miss Marguerite Lambert and Thomas B. Owen, '35, took place. May 6, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Gertrude Fitzgerald and Martin Foley, '29, wereniarried. May 20, in New York City. 
Miss Virginia M. "Wise and Harold J. Tu­berty, *31, were married, June 29, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Eileen Humiston and John J. Staunton, *32, took place, June 3, in Chicago. 
Miss Edith Profilet and Patrick P. Bums, '33, were married. May 6, in Natchez, Missis­sippi. 
Miss Elizabeth B. Eckenrode and John J. McNeill, *33, were married, June 10, in Harris­bunr, Pennsylvania. Two of the ushers were Joseph J. Dodcman, '33, and Thomas &L Mc-Laugfalin, '33. 
Miss Elizabeth Anzuena and Robert W. Bntler, *34, were married. May 22, in the Log Chatwl, Notre Dame. 
Miss Marian Bek and Thomas G. Roadi, '34, were married, June 10, in Grand Rapids, l£chigan. 
Miss Phyllis W. Shirley and Howard' J. Gillespie, '34, were married, June 21, in West­field,. New Jersey. 
The marriage of Miss "Mary Margaret Con­way and Thomas A- Conlej-, *34, took place, June 17, in Cleveland, Ohio. 
Miss Phyllis Muratet Lyons and George W. Barber, '35, were -married, June 15, in Okla­homa City. 
Miss Mary McAIoon and James F. Bowdren, Jr., '35, were married, June 15, in North An­dover, Massachusetts. 
The marriage of Miss Jane Simmons and John C. Boyle, ex. '35, took place, April 29. in Gary, Indiana. Paul J. Boyle, .'33, was best 
man. 
Miss Virginia Helen Jarecki and Arthur!^ Korzcneski, '35, were married, June 21, 'in Chicago. 
The marriage of Miss Margaret Mullens and John J. Ryan, '35, took place. May 25, in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Miss Eleanor Ann Elliott and James R. Scott. '36, were married, June 5, in South Bend. 
Miss Beatrice Sullivan and John Levidd, *37. were married, June 10, in Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
Miss Evelyn McCausIin and Charles Bor­owski, *3S, were married. May 30, in South Bend. 
Miss Ritn Smith and Daniel W. Codiran, '38, were married, June 17, in St. Louis. 
Miss Helen Mar Shoop and Edward L. Boyle, '38. were married 'June 2. 
Miss Betty Lou Sullivan and William D. Sullt%'an, ex. *40, were married, June 5, in South Bend. 
Miss Dorothy Ann Selle and Edward G. Farrell, '39, were married. June 5, in South Bend. 
Miss Loretta Howlett and Robert McKeat­ing, '37, were married, June 10,' in^ Oak Park, Illinois. Don McKeating, ex. *40, was the best man. Among the attendants .were Gene Linff. Ed and Frank Huisking. Frank Carroll,. Jtm Waldron, John Maloney. Martin Boms, Ed Fox, Jack McAuIiffe and Ray McGrath, all of the class of '37. 
Miss Margaret Catherine Rainey and Wil­liam D. -Ashcnden, ex. '35, were married, October 1, in Chicago. 
Miss Virginia Vorris and Frank Obcrkoctter, '32, were married. June 17. Father Bourke Motsett, '31, performed the ceremony in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Frances Magnus and Richard Barber, '31, were married. June 18, in East Port Chester, Connecticut. 
Miss Louise Brown and Thomas Bath, ex. '32. were married, June 11, in South Bend. Miss Alberta Postal and Thomas J. White. 
'37, were married. June 17, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Births 
' Mr. and" Mrs. Elmer F, Layden, '25, an­

nounce the birth "of a son, on April 11, in ' South Bend. " ' 
A son, James Michael, was born to Mr, and Mrs. John McNcllis. '27, on January 8, in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Dennis O'Brien, '27. announce the birth of a.son, Kevin Edward. March 20, in Chicago. ' . " ' 
A daughter,: Clare Ann, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Byrne. '28, February G, in Cleveland.' 
A son, Richard Lee, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Eugene A. Schiltz, '28, in Newark. New York. 
A son, -Richard Joseph, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John W. Dorgan, *29, May 23, in Chicago. 
A son was born to Mr. and Mrs. Claude H. Homing. *29. in Akron, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. James C. Costello, *30. an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Jane Carron, April 22." in East Orange, New Jersey. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank D. Hamilton, '30, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, May 29, in Dodgeville. Wisconsin. 
A son. John Bernard, Jr., was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John B. McGcc, '30, March 15, in Buffalo, New York. 
A daughter, -Anne Ryall, w*as bom to Mr. and Mrs. Harry Sylvester, '30, February 23. in St. Mar>-*s County, Maryland. 
-A son, Joseph Francis, Jr., was horn to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Dccb, *31. March 1, in Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank J- Noll. Jr., '31, an­nounce the birth of a son, John Frazer, May 8, in Indianapolis. 
- Mr. and Mrs. Paul Koprowski. '31. announce the birth ot a son, April 25. in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Grimes, *34, announce the birth of a daughter, Nancy Margaret, June 8. in Niles, Michigan. 
Dr. and Mrs. William P. Hamilton, ex. '32, announce .the birth of a daughter, March 25, in DodgeWlle, .Wisconsin. 
A daughter. Sharon Anne, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Charles S. Morris, '35, April 26, in Cortland, New York. 
Mr. and-Mrs. George P. Leyes, '36. an­nounce the birth of a. son, Charles Phillip, May 20, in San Francisco. 
A son, William Patrick, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Snooks, '36, May 5, in St. Louis. Missouri. 


June, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
A daughter was bom to Dr. and Mrs. Ed­ward W. Lakner* '25. May 17, in Cleveland, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. P. Seton Stalejr, '33, announce the birth of a son. David. May 20. in Cincin­nati. Ohio. 
A daughter, Rosemary, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Wiro", '33. June 6, in Madison, Wisconsin. 
A daughter. Mary Antonie. was born to Mr. and Mrs. John J, Roche. '34. June 14, in W. New Brighton. S. I.. N. Y. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edmund F, Goldsmith. '37. announce the birth of a son. May 18, in Oxford, Massachusetts. 
OeafAs / 
Rev. Dominic Cannon, C.S.C, Litt.B., '07, died on May 4, the 60th anniversary of his birth, as"^ the result of a heart ailment which had kept him relatively inactive for eight years. 
A teacher of physics for many years, at Notre Dame and the University of Portland, Father Cannon had continued with a single class at Holy Cross seminary on the campus until shortly before his death. As teacher and hall prefect he had by his quiet friendliness won the admiration of innumerable alumni. 
Father Cannon was ordained on December 18, 1913. He was buried in the Community cemetery at Notre Dame on May S. 
Brother Leonard. C.S.C. Ph.B., '24, A.M« '34, a skilled and successful teacher and ad­ministrative officer in Holy Cross College. New-Orleans, and Cathedral High School, Indian­apolis, died on May 6. In addition, he had been editor of "The Annals of Our Lady of Lourdes" and assistant director of Dujarie Hall. 
Brother Leonard received the habit on Jan­uary 25, 1920 and pronounced final vows in June. 1325. 
Dr. Stephen J. Mahcr. world-noted authority on tuberculosis, Lactarc Medalist in 1932 and a Knight of St. Gregory, died in New Haven, Connecticut on June 6. He was 79 years old. Dr. Maher was chairman of the Connecticut State Tuberculosis Commission for 23 years and was official representative of the United States at many meetings of the International Tuberculosis Conference. 
One of the University's most illustrious hon­orary alumni was removed from the records with the death, on May 26, of the world-famed Dr. Charles H. Mayo, LLi).. '36. Dr. William 
J. Mayo, the brother, also received an honor­ary degree that year and delivered the Com­mencement address. 
John W. Shcehan, LL.B.. *07. political edi­tor of the noted St. Louis "Globe-Democrat," died suddenly on April 17 (Universal Notre Dame Night) after a heart attack. Sitting alone in his apartment, he telephoned for a doctor when he felt himself growing weak. "When help arrived Jack was dead, with the telephone receiver in his hand. 
He had been managing editor of the "Illi­nois State Journal" in his home city of Spring­field, Illinois and he was an active and inter­ested member of the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis. Joseph B. McGIynn, '12. vice- presi­dent of the Association last year, kindly sent word about Jack's death. 
Frank B. Campbell. LL.B.. '14. Missotila, Montana, was the victim of. an automobile accident on May 16 when his car skidded off the highway in a heavy rainstorm. ' He lived only a half-hour after the crash. 
Mr. Campbell was a native of Missoula and had spent most of his life there. A few days before his death he was appointed a field man for the Montana Unemployed Compensa­tion Commission. Previously, he was Mis­soula representative for the FHA and, earlier, an employe of the Independent Oil Company. A baseball player at Notre Dame, he main­tained a close interest in baseball throughout his remaining lifetime as semi-pro player and manager. 
Sur\'iving Mr. Campbell are his wife, three sons, two brothers and two sisters. 
Charles J. McCarthy. Jr.. ex., '2S. Livings­ton, New Jersey, a member of the editorial staff of "The Newark Evening News" for 15 years, died in Elizabeth, New Jersey on June 6 after an operation. Surviving are his wife, his parents and a brother John. ex. '33. 
Edmond A. Collins, A.B., '30, lost on June 3 a heroic nine-year fight against tuberculosis when he succumbed in Tucson. Arizona. Rev. 
J. Hugh O'Donncll, C.S.C, vice-president, preached at his funeral Mass in Oak Park, Illinois, suburb of Chicago, on June 8. Elmer Layden and two of his assistants on the coaching staff. Bill Cerncy and Chet Grant, were additional University representatives at the funeral. Scores of Notre Dame men from Chicago and nearby points were also present. 
Following in the well-marked footsteps of his brother. Chuck, end on the Four Horse­man team of 1924, Eddie was an end on Rock's teams in 1923 and 1929. He served a few months as assistant coach at the Uni­versity of Washington in 1930 but his illness forced his retirement. 
All through his residence in Tucson he maintained a spirited interest in Notre Dame and Notre Dame activities, and was especially gratified by the visits of the teams on their trips to the Southern California games." 
James D. Brosnahan. A.B., *30, Springfield. Massachusetts, died in El Paso. Texas, on Holy Saturday, April S, following a brilliant battle of almost six years against tuberculosis. 
After a period of residence in New Mexico, Jim had three stages of a thorocoplasty opera­tion in El Paso in 1937 and in 1938 was much recovered. It was found necessary this year, however, that he undergo his fourth operation for the removal of his four remain­ing ribs. He died after this fourth ordeal, with the words of the Way ef the Cross on his lips. "We adore thee, O Christ, and we bless Thee, because by Thy Holy Cross Thou has redeemed the world." 
An inspiring letter from Jim's wife told of his courageous fight for life and his peaceful and beautiful death. 
The ALUMNUS extends sinceiw sympathy to C Victor Essrogcr. '29, upon the death of his father; John M., '27. Timothy J., Jr.. '24. and James E. Murphy, '22. upon the death of their father; Stanley Czapaiski, '32, upon the death of his wife; Cy Conner,.'36, upon the death of his mother: Robert J. McKcating, '37, upon the death of his mother. 
PersoRofs 

AMONG THOSE PRESENT 

The Editors are happy to. prej sent, under the classes, the names of those who registered on the campus at an^ time unthin the Commencement week-end. .' As-'al-' ways, there were many who-did not register and who, on that account, cannot be listed here; " ^ 
Before 1880 Secntsi^: HM. T. F. Gsl-
Commencement Registrants: > -
Beatus, Mark—^Memphis. Tenn. Vennet, Frank—South Bend Ind. 


1880-188 5 ^9*«'***^: P**^ B"*^ ^ 
Iftac Seczcturrs Hkfcad O. Buas. SSt a ^'^'^ Second St^Bsantai^ OUtu . 
1887 -1888 ?~«^L ^i ; =«««-^ 
Commencement Kegistrant: 
Konzen, Frank—Mishawaka. Ind. . -~ 
J3g 9 Secntur: P. B. Bute. 311 Caap New Oricans, LovUuu. 

Commencement Registrants: 
Goebel, Rev. T. A.—^Portsmouth, Ohio . . Fehr, Col. Frank—Louisville. Ky. 
1890-1893 Btmtur: UmSm P. Ckat*. 7 UaiT.ATe^IDaBapalli, IBna. 
Conunencement Registrants: 
Herman, John L.—South Bend, Ind. 
Maurus, Edward J.—Notre Dame 
Colonel Jim McKee, Versailles, Kentucky, a notable figure at recent Commencements, ^vas absent this year despite early plans to attend. Jim's mother broke her arm in a fall in late May and was under the care of her nurse in her home. Jim. of course, could not leave her. 
1894 BKRtur: Hagh A. ODoudl. t W. ^^^ C7tk St, New To * City. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Cooke, J. J.—Chicago, 111. 
Kennedy, James F.—Chicago, 111. 
Kirby, M. D.—Lansing Mich. 
O'Donnell, Hugh—New York City 
lag s Secntary: Eoetace CalUiiaa. Sr., Mil *""*' Hilb Tower. Saa Fiaadiea. Calif. 

Commencement Registrant: 
Schnur, Martin J. —Goshen, Ind. 
IBQC Seentary: WUUaB P. Banu. SIT Winaid Ave.. WcUcan Oty, Indlaaa. 
Commencement Registrant: -.. 
Barton. Dr. F. W.—Danville, 111. 
189 7 Secie<ary: Bar. J. A. HacNaaura. St. 
^'^' Joa. Saalteriam. Ht. Ckaeaa. Mkk. 

Commencement Registrants: 
Loshbough. J. W.—South Bend, Ind. MabNamara, Rev. John A.—Mt. Clemens, Mich. 
189 8 SecretaiTS WiUlaM C. Ktsfcr. ttk * 
M.aaa g,,^_„ g,^ CiaciaBatl. OUa. 

Commencement Registrant: 
Hering, Frank E.—South Bend, Ind. 
Jerom'e Crowley, widely-known Chicago at­torney arid leading Knight of Columbus, wait the speaker this year at the Law Club's'annual • Colonel Hoynes banquet in the Hotel'La Salle on April 27. ; ". • *.-..', 
Jgg 9 Sccnbur: Dr. JoKph F. Dnmne, 4It Jeffenoa Bird., Peoria, in. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Schumacher, CS-C, Rex-. IL—Holy Cross Steiner, CS.C. Hev. Thomas—Notre Dame 
1900-190 1 Seeietarr: Joseph J. SnlUran. ^^^ ^ WOO, 1S9 N. Claric SL, Chi­caco, HL 
Commencement Registrant: 
Marr, Hcv. G. L., CS.C—Notre Dame 
190 2 Socratatr: C. C MitduU, 110 Sooth Dcatbom St, Box 3, ChieaEO, HL 
Commencement Registrant: 
Jones, Vitus G.—South Bend, Ind. 
ton ? SecRtarr: Frandi P. Baike, 904 Trait Co. Bids., Miltrankee, Wis. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Carrico, Rev. J. H, C.S.C—^Notre Dame McKeever, Francis.^-Chicaso Walsh. Hev. M. J., CS.C—Notre Dame 
190 4 Secretarr: Bobert 6. Proctor, Honxer BHl., Elkhart, Indiana. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Ackenmann, Francis X.—^Notre Dame (M.S.) Griffin, Very Rev. Mscr. Maurice—Cleveland Irving, CS-C. Rev. Thomas—Notre Dame Jones. Tom—Indianapolis, Ind. Kanaley, Byron V.—Chicago, 111. Quinn. John D.—New York City 
ign e Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSaUe St, CUcaeo. m. 
Commencement Registrant: 
Jamieson, "William D.—Chicago, III. 
The son of George V. Dottle, Poly Drive, Billings, Montana, is planning to attend Notre Dame soon, according to recent word from the Registrar's office. The young man is now at the TJ. S. Naval Training Station, San Diego, California. 
1906 Stcntmzr: nomaa A. Laliy, 81I-U Fanlien BUt., Spokane Waah. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Becchinor, Howard F.—^Detroit, Mich, Burke. C.S.C, Rev. E. P.—^Notre Dame Doremus, CS.C., Rev. Ch.^rlos—Notre Dame Gallagan, CS.C, Kev. James—Notre Dame Hagerty, C.S.C., Rev. Cornelius—Notre Dame McGinn. C.S.C., Rev. John—Notre l3ame Ryan, C.S.C., Rev. John—^Notre Dame 
190 7 Secretatr: Ber. Tliomaa E. Burice, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Cunningham. James—Chicago. III. 
Cunningham, C.S.C., Rev. Wm.—Notre Dame 
ign D Seeretaiy: Frank X. Call, Bo&ler BoUdins, CIcTeland, Ohio. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Broccolo. Paul—Chicago, III. 
^each, L- J.—^Indianapolis, Ind. 
St. George, Maximilian J.—Chicago, HI. 
1909 
Commencement Registrants: 
CoIIentine. C.S.C.. Rev. R. J.—Notre Dame 
GuBhurst. Albert F.—Lead. S. D. 
Kamm. A. X.—Ashland, Wis. 
Kanaley, John B.—Chicago. III. 
191 0 Secretair: Rer. U. U Horiarty. 1961 Eadid ATC^ dereland. Ohio. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Deery, James E.—^Indianapolis. Ind. 
Hanlon, George T.—Detroit. Mich. 
Moriarty, Rev. SL L.—Cleveland, Ohio 
Sorg, Claude A.—Middletown, Ohio 
291 1 SMTcUry: Fred Steen. 16S6 Flnt National Bank BIdff., Chicago, HL 
Commencement Registrants: 
Figel, Edtt-. L.—Chicago. III. 
Lawton, J. H.—South Bend, Ind. 
Murphy, Joseph B.—Dayton, Ohio 
O'Hara, CS.C, Rev. John P.—Notre Dame 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Ryan, William R.—Cleveland. Ohio 
Steers, Fred—Chicago, 111. 
Vaughan, Will—Lafayette, Ind. 
Father Francis J. Wenninger, CS.G., dean of the College of Science, gave the principal address on &fay 10 at the graduation of nurses in St. Joseph's Hospital, Mishawaka. 
191 2 Secretary: B. J. KalMr, 324 Fovrifc St.. Fittibiiivh, Pa. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Donahue, Joe—South Bend, Ind. 
Kaiser, B. J.—Pittsburgh, Pa. 
McGlynn. Joseph B.—East St. Louis. 111. 
McGrath, Chester—St. Joseph, Mich. 
1Q 1 ^ Pan] R. Byrne, University Library. 
xsrx^ Notre Daroc. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Byrne, Paul—Notre Dame O'Hara, John W.—Chicago, 111. 
191 4 SMxetary: Frank H. H^JeM, 406 Bank of America BnUdinr. Anaheim, Calif* 
Commencement Registrants: 
Clements, Walter—South Bend. Ind. 
Curry, Thomas—^Hartford. Conn. 
Dorais. C E.—Detroit, Mich. 
Flanagan, Simeon T.—^New York City Gushurst. Fred—Denver. Colo. 
Hogan, Frank M.—Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Hynes, John^-Des Moines, Iowa 
Nigro. Dr. D. M.—Kansas City, Mo. 
O'Neill. R. S.—Detroit. Mich. 
Redden. ^ViIIiam—Milwaukee. ^Vis. 
Shouvlin. Dan R.—Springiield, Ohio 
Skelly, D. J.—Oil City. Pa. 
Vaughan. Charles—Lafayette. Ind. 
Colonel Clements arranged the week-end for the Silver Anniversary boys and presided in Lyons Hall at the informal festivities. He recalls those happy hours for you: 
"The reunion of the class of '14 in celebra­tion of the 25th anniversary of their gradua­tion was well attended and many messages of regret were received from those w-ho were unable to be present. The class dinner, Friday evening, June 2, reached an all time high in that not one speech was made, the heat and humidity of the night having been responsible for the lack of 'postprandial eloquence' as we used to say way back yonder bcfo' de war. However, 'ere the week-end had passed, the' heat and humidity lifted and one member lost his voice in an attempt to resurrect the songs of 25 years ago—and the class quartet. 
"Just how many things can happen in 25 years was deeply impressed on the minds of the members attending the dedication of the Rocknc Memorial when Gus Dorais paid his beautiful tribute to our classmate, Knate Rockne, now among the immortals, and his talk was broadcast by radio. 
"Father Mike Shea, author of the Victory March, said Mass for the deceased members of the class of '14 and this Mass was attended by the entire group who had returned for the reunion. 
"Before departing for their respective homes the class agreed to return for reunions every five years and to correspond with those unable to return this year to the end that they will be present at future reunions. Incidentally the same pledges were made 25 years ago, but this time with the promise to make up for reunions missed in the past." 
191 5 Secretary: James E. Sanford, XS24 **'*•' Farwcn ATC, Chicago. HI. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Berger, Alvin H.—^Fort Wayne. Ind. Byrne, Joseph M.—Newark. N. J. Eichenlaub, Ray—Columbus, Ohio Hudson. Galvin—Memphis. Tenn. I&lleher. Bill—Lorain, Ohio Lajoie. Larry—Detroit. Mich. Pliska. Joe—Chicago, IH. Wells, March—Bloomington, DI. 
June, 1939 
191 6 Saentaryz Tlowthr P. GaMa, First Tiaat Bldff^ Baraniond, Ind, 
Commencement Registrants: 
Cook, Bill—^Los Angeles, Calif. Kelly, Luke—Boston, Mass. Miller, Grover—Racine, Wis. O'Donnell. CS.C, Rev. Hugh—Notre Dame Ryan, Dr. E. C—Chicago. 111. Turner, W. W.—South Bend, Ind. 
191 7 SecRtaxr: Bdward J. HcOiker, I N 
S. Union St . Btsia, HL 
Commencement Registrants: 
Cassidy, John—^Peoria. 111. Finneran, F. X.—Notre Dame Flynn, J. F.—Chicago, III. Fogarty, J. Paul—Chicago, HI. Hilgartner, Jr.. D. E.—Chicago, 111. McNichols. Austin A.—Chicago, 111. 
Voll. Bernard J.—South Bend. Ind. Walsh. James R.—Chicago. 111. 
191 8 SecnUty: John A. Lcnuner, 1111— 8A Are^ Eacanaba, BCclilfan* 
Commencement Registrants: 
Coyle, CS.C. Rev. Matthew—Notre Dame 
Riley. Joseph T.—^Muskegon. Mich. 
Schock. G^rge A.—South Bend, Ind. 
191 9 Secretanr; Clarence Bader, 650 Fierca Street, Gaiy, Indiana. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Carroll, Maurice—Kansas City, Mo. Fenlon, Paul—Notre Dame Haller, George D.—Detroit. Mich. Huber. Robert E.—Chicago, HI. McDonald. CS.C, Rev. James H.—Notre Dame 
192 0 SecreUiy: Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black 
•^ BHtf., Lea Anvalea. Calif. 
Commencement Registrants; 
Conaghan. Paul R.—Chicago, 111. Farrington, Frank—South Bend, Ind. 
Kerver, George G.—Cleveland. Ohio 
Malone. Grover J.—South Bend, Ind. 
Meehan, Ed—South Bend, Ind. 
Patterson, Dillon—South Bend, Ind. 
192 1 Secretary: Dan W. Daffy, 1600 Ttr­mlnal Tower. Clereland, Ohio. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Hoar, Gerald—^Notre Dame 
Maag, J. M.—Chicago. III. 
Sanford, Joseph F.—Muskegon, Mich. 
Schubmehl. R. J.—South Bend. Ind. 
AVhite, William M.—Springfield, 111. 
192 2 SecrcUry: Gerald Aahe, Buffalo Ath­
•^ letie Qob, Buffalo, New York 
Commencement Registrants: 
Anderson, Heartly "Hunk"—Detroit, Mich. 
Ashe. Gerald—Hilton, N. Y. 
Coughlin, D. M.—^Waseca. Minn. 
Dixon, J. F.—Evanston, 111. 
Heneghan, George P.—Chicago, HI. 
Keefe, Thomas L.—Logansport, Ind. 
Pfohl, Paul J.—Chicago, 111. 
Shaw, James C—DesMoincs, Iowa 
Shea. Arthur C—Indianapolis. Ind. 
Shecdy. Morgan F.—Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Shilts. Walter L.—South Bend, Ind. 
Wynne. C. A.—Chicago, 111. 
Professor Walter Shilts, acting dean of the College of Engineering, was elected president of the Illinois-Indiana section of the Society for Promotion of Engineering Education at a meeting in Chicago in early April. Profes­sor Emtc Wilheim, '27, was elected secretary of the group and Professor E. G. Mahin, head of the Metallurgy Department, was named a delegate to the executive committee. Other Notre Dame faculty men at the meeting were: Harry HcLellan, '21; Ronald E. Rich, '28; Lawrence Stander, '29; J. A. Northcott. Har­old Ellithom. H. D. Hinton. Ph.D., '30; A. N. Milgram, Paul Pepper and George Collins. 
192 3 Secretaiy: Paul H. Castncr. 17 Coiw ndl Boad. Weat Hartford. Conn. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Breen, Frank J.—^Lakeville. Ind. 
Brennan, C.S.C., Rev. T. J.—Notre Dame. 
Casasanta. Joseph—South Bend, Ind. 
Desch, Gus—Elmhurst. lU. 
De^et . Louis—Chicago. HI. 
Diedrich, Art—Soutli Bend, Ind. 

June, 1939 
Doran, Dr. P, C.—Akron. Ohio Flynn, John R.—Cleveland, Ohio Furey, W. J.—South Bend, Ind. Hines. Eugene M.—Chicaso, 111. Holmberp, Bruce—River Forest. 111. Kelly, Edward D.—Emmetsburs, Iowa Kreimer, E. P.—South Bend. Ind. Martin. James R.—Chicago. 111. Montague. John—Chicago. III. Nash, Richard—Chicago, 111. Norton. John C.—Chicago, III. O'Toole. C. R.—Pittsburgh. Pa. Raub, E. J.—Akron. Ohio Rauh. Walter I.—Calumet City. 111. Reddington, C.S.C., Rev. John J.—Notre Dame Rieder. Leo P.—South Bend. Ind. Shea. W. E.—Dayton, Ohio Voss, "William L.—Harvey, 111. 
A recent announcement made known the ap­pointment of Maurice Dacy as sales manager of the Wolber Duplicator & Supply Company. 120X Cortland Street. Chicago. 
192 4 SeereUry: J. F. Hayes, Wm. J. Ped­ridc and Co., IntemftBonal Boildinr. Rockefeller Center, New York City. 
Commencement Registrants: 

Adier. Joe—Joliet. III. Baldus. George—Fort Wayne, Ind. Barber. Tom—Erie. Pn. Bochm. Al—Chicago, 111. Boyle, Hugh O.—^Pittsburgh. Pa. Cooke. Thomas E.—Chicago. III. Donovan, Tom—Chicago. 111. Drcnnan, William J.—Chicago, III. Feltes, Norman—Chicago, 111. Fox, Jerome—Chilton, Wis. Geniesse. Levi—Green Bay. Wis. Green. Joseph A.—^New Castle, Pa. Heringer. Leo—Chicago, 111. Hoyer, R. A.—^Notre Dame Hucther. E. J.—Chicago, III. Johnston. J. Fnrrell—Dayton, Ohio Kelly, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas A.—Notre Dame Lang. Raymond J.—Mishnwaka. Ind. Lyons, Gerald—New York City Mancuso. Fred—Kansns City. Mo. Mayl. E. A.—Dayton. Ohio McGinnis, Frank—Birmingham. Mich. Moehan, James R.—South Bend. Ind. Moore. G.S.C., Rev. Philip—^Notre Dame Noon, E. F.—South Bend. Ind. Noonan. Clifford—Chicago, 111. Reagan, R. P.—Madison, Wis. Rink. R. M.—Goshen, Ind. Riordan. Robert M.—Notre Dame Rose. T. A.—Anderson, Ind. SpuUer. L. W.—Chicago. 111. Stillman, Bud—Detroit, Mich. Sullivan. Ed S.—Fort Wayne. Ind. Trenkle, Henry J.—^Dubuque, Iowa 
Charlie Dc Barry, New York City architect, with his nephew, just graduated from George­town, popped in on the Alumni Office and Classmate Riordan for an alt-too-brief visit on June 15. Charlie wanted to make the reunion but the Georgetown graduation was the same week-end. 
Major and Reirfstrar Bob Riordan. who did a swell job off chairmaning, reports thus on the '24 reunion: 
"The Fifteen-Year Reunion went off with a very real and emphatic bang. An innovation well received was the Saturday luncheon in the faculty dining room to which were invited the *23 and the '25 men. There were no speeches and no ceremonies; the gang just got together and talked things over, the only chance they had to congregate quietly and to see all the returnees in the same place at the same time. Everyone present was quite pleased, so much so that the *25 boys are plan­ning to incorporate the idea in their 15-year rodeo next year. 
"No damage was reported by the Mainten­ance Department and no casualties by the medical staff, the telegram to Gerry Miller's wife nothwithstanding. Jerry Lyons brought his wife along, as did Tom Cooke, and the wives departed with the husbands (Danny Hilgartner, take note). The quartets were har­monious and the story tellers humorous; the discussion at the banquet (between the Adler-Donovan barrage) became even academic un­der the forensic leadership of Tom Barber, '24's most eligible bachelor barrister. All in all. the reunion w^as so pleasing in every re­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
spect that the ensuing increment of half a decade seems too long to wait for the next grand rally." 
192 5 Becrctarr: John F . Harley, 2111 *•'*'•' Br«okd«Ie Road. Toledo, OUOL 
Commencement Registrants: 

Armstrong. James E.—Notre Dame Barry, Tom—^Notre Dame Baumgartner, C. L.—South Bend. Ind. Braunsdorf, W. H.—South Bend. Ind. Cemey. William J.—^Notrc Dame Canningham. Ray—^Detroit, Mich. Cyr, Walter J.—iStamford, Conn. Foos, Al—Norwalk Ohio Harding, Clarence W.—South Bend, Ind. Rowland. Robert B.—St. Louis, Mo. Hurley. John—^Toledo. Ohio Kesting, Ben—Toledo. Ohio Layden, Elmer—Notre Dame Laughlin. G. C—Chicago, 111. McAvoy, C.S.C.. Rev. Thomas T.— Notre Dame McNichoIas. James F.—Chicago, III. Miller, Jerry—Cleveland Ohio Murray, Frank—Toledo, Ohio O'Toole. Edward F.—Chicago, 111. Porta, A. J.—South Bend, Ind. O'Toole. John—Pittsburgh. Pa. Powers, Leo J.—Chicago, 111. Rohrbach. G. E.—South Bend. Ind, Romweber, Paul—-Batesville. Ind. Schaffer Carl—^Toledo. Ohio Steel, Frank—Akron. Ohio Toolen. Joseph J.—Anderson. Ind. Uhl. Gilbert—South Bend. Ind. 
These notes from John Hurley arrived just too late for the May issue: 
"Just a line in a hurry to give you what dope I have on the '25*ers before the June Commencement. Ray Cunningham arrived back from Miami after a wonderful season and he is moving into his new home in Bermingham on River Rouge. Ray said he saw Frank Wal­lace, '23. and the Honorable Vince Harrington. '25. down in Miami. He was down there all season but didn't happen to run into Joe Fitzpatrick, who ought to be president of that Miami bank by this time. 
"Ray Tillman lead the Toledo contingent, 

14 strong, to the Cleveland Universal Notre 
.Dame meeting and the boys were certainly pleased that they made the trip and a bushel of orchids should be given to Karl Martersteck and his Cleveland crowd for the good get-together that they had. Among the Toledo boys were Joe Navarre, Art Ryan, Art Suder Ed "Copper" Lynch, Tom Shcffert, formerly of Fort Wayne, and Paul Hoeffler, formerly of Buffalo, but who is now taking charge of the Phoenix Life Insurance Company here in Toledo, John Connolly and the secretary of the class of '25. 
"There were lots of Cleveland boys that I saw at this particular meeting but Albert Aloysius Sommer, *25. better kno\vn in the good old days as 'li'I Abner,' is a pretty proud fellow these days as, after three little girls, the Sommer family crashed through with a boy. There was no holding Al." 
Ed Ryan, 1aw>'er and banker in Valparaiso, Indiana, and the father of two children, stopped in for a chat on May 25. 
192 6 S^i^^i?* Jaines A. Ronan, 127 N. Dearborn St.. Chicago, Illinois. 
Commencement Registrants: 

Bailey, Joseph A.—Chicago, HI. 
Barr, William R.—Chalmers, Ind. 
Burt. Herbert J.—Chicago. 111. 
Dooley, William R.—^Notre Dame Downs, Ray—^Rochester. N. Y. 
Haley Art—South Bend. Ind. 
Knaus, Mai—^Detroit, Mich. 
LaFoUette, Robert—Chicago, 111. 
Mahoney. E. W.—^Indianapolis. Ind. 
Mason, Charles E.—^Indianapolis. Ind. 
O'Day, George P.—Cleveland. Ohio 
Quinlan, J. W.—South Bend, Ind. 
Sexton, Joe—Indianapolis. Ind. 
Slattery, John—Chicago III. 
Staples, J. R.—South Bend. Ind. 
Tuohy. John—Oak Park. 111. 
Walsh. Joe—^Notre Dame 
235 

Bob LaFoUette is an engineer on the sab­way-digging job in Chicago, according to dope from John HcNellis, '27. 
192 7 Secretary: Joseph BL Bolaitd. AtUctie Orice, Notre Daae. Ind. 
Commencement Registrants: 

Berner, S. T.—South Bend. Ind. 
Boland. Joe—^Notre Dame 
Bourke. Edward—South Bend, Ind, 
Brennan. John W.—Detroit, Mich. 
Butler, Paul—South Bend. Ind. 
Cooney Robert—Adrian, Mich. 
Dugan. John M.—Kansas City, Mo. 
Fitzgerald. Don—Chicago, 111. 
Halpin. John—Chicago, 111. 
Halpin. Richard—Chicago, 111. 
Henry M. Albert—Hammond, Ind. 
Irmiger. Bob—Chicago, 111. 
Jones, Herb—^Notre Dame 
Kavanaugh, W. D.—Dayton, Ohio 
Lechowicz. Stanley—Cleveland, Ohio 
McCulIough. W. H.—Mansfield Ohio 
McLaughlin. Ed—Chicago. 111. 
McNellis, John—Chicago. HI. 
Moran. F. D.—South Bend. Ind. 
Morsches. John F.—^Fort Wayne, Ind. 
O'Brien, Dennis B.—Chicago, HI. 
Pendergast, F. J.—Chicago, 111. 
Smith, Al—LaPorte, Ind. 
Smithberger A. T.—South Bend. Ind. 
Snyder, Raymond M.—South Bend. Ind. 
Wilhelm, E. J.—South Bend, Ind. 
Wilkins, Donald J.—Chicago, HI. 
Tommy Green, down there in Conroe, Texas, says in a recent note that "they throw *em like baseballs," referring to the Southern Methodist team which will come to the NJ>. stadium next fall. 
Latest dope is that one Richard "Red" Smith is the playing manager for the Mil­waukee Brewers in the American Association. 
192 8 Secretary Loab F. Bnekley, 1965 Biltmore St., N.W., Waihington, D. a 
Commencement Registrants: 

Boehning, J. W.—Indianapolis, Ind. 
Brown. F. E.—Elkhart, Ind. 
Canny. J. P.—Cleveland. Ohio 
Coury, George—Chicago. 111. 
Ducey. Vincent P.—Chicago, 111. 
Fontana. John C.—Columbus Ohio 
Grams, Augie—LaCrosse. Wis. Igoe. J. D.—Cleveland, Ohio 
Loeffler, B. T.—Indianapolis, Ind. 
Lusson. Ray—Chicago. HI. 
McCarthy, Frank P.—Indianapolis, Ind. 
McKeown. Edw. P.—Chicago. III. Quinn, Ed—South Bend. Ind. 
Rafter Edw. P.—Chicago. III. 
Short. J. Charles—Blairsville. Pa. Toepp. B. E.—South Bend. Ind. 
Worden, Roy A.—South Bend, Ind. 
George Coary came, saw and wrote about Commencement, as follows: 
"In compliance with your request, Lon, I hereby make my report which I trust will have more of your approval than do my economic theories. Seriously we all missed you and also those annual knock-do\v& and drag-out discus­sions. Your fellow professors, Andy Boyle and Ed Quinn, were on hand to jrfve every '£8er a hearty welcome. 
"Hailing from Fort Wayne was Henry Haslcy who was recently reelected K. C. state advocate. Frank McCarthy, James Boehnins and Bemie Loeffler represented Indianapolis. Bernie helps the home city keep its telephone service in order. 
"John Fontana made a hurried trip from Columbus where he is practicing law. 'He reports that attorneys Bemie ZIpperer and Joe Kinneary are also located there, while barris­ters Al Thomas and Martin Rini are pleading their cases in Cleveland. 
"Fan! Falter is with the Ohio Indostrial Commission and Jim Shocknessy, I am told, is one of the few Ohio Democrats who has with­stood the Republican upheaval of last year and still holds his position as general counsd for the H.O.L.C. Nice going, Jim. 
"Pat Canny was down with his golf clubs and ready to take on all challengers. Evidently Pat mixes his clubs with his law books while trj'injf to help the Erie Railroad back to solvency. 
"From Pennsylvania came Charlie Short .who last Februarj* joined the ranks of happy benedicts and judging from Charlie's general appearance. I would bet that Mrs. Short is an excellent cook. Charlie is with the Pennsyl­vania Labor Relations Board at Harrisburg. He reports that 
"James Harrigan, .who was with the U. S. Treasury in Harrisburg, was recently trans­

•ferred to the Hour and Wage Bureau at Washington. Dr. Frank Hagcrty is practicing medicine in Pittsburgh, while Dr. David Solo­mon is upholding the time-honored profession at Ebcnsburg, Pennsylvania, Another of our physicians. Dr. Mark FarrcII, is located in Clarksburg, West Virginia. 
"Dr. Ben Franklin paid me a visit when in Chicago last year while on his way back to New York from Denver where he attended a medical convention. Ben is teaching at Cor­nell University and recently he left the ranks of bachelorhood. Good luck, Ben I 
"Bill Cronin came from New York to Chi­cago last week to attend the funeral of an older brother. Our condolences and sincere sympathy. Bill. 
'•Representing Illinois were Eddie Rafter, who is helping the Chicago Plan Commission clear away our slum area. Bob Trotter, who is still directing various crews of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Company, real estate oi)erator Bill Gocltz and Vincc Duccy, who is studying for his Master's degree at North­western where he is majoring in education. Together with Attorney Raj- Mulligan, this coterie of bachelors is holding out on the fair maidens in and around the Windy City. Some­thing ought to be done about it. 
"Bill Murphy was on hand and helped Wil­lard Wagner trim me in a poker game. I still think the game was crooked and it is one of the times I wish I had taken law so that I could prove my contention. 
"Ray Lusson, who was on the campus with Mrs. Lusson, is still with the Chicago Board of Education. 
*'Ed McKeown was very much in evidence, having gained 40 pounds in the last year. As a recipe, Ed says. 'Less habeas corpus and more holes in one.' 
"John Igoe came from St, Louis where he is connected with the National Tube Company. Carrol Fincklcy is still part of the St. Louis banking fraternity, while Bill • Leahy is now assistant sales manager of the Pet Milk Company, 
"Augic Grams, who helped me over many rough spots in the late Brolhcr Cyprian's accounting class, came back for the tirst time since graduation. He reported that sometime back Hayes Murphy drove his motorboat from Rock Island to LaCrosse and paid Augie a visit. Augie is in the feed business, happily married and is running Bob Kirby a close second for the class honors with four children. Bob still leads with five. I saw Bob here last month when he came to Chicago for a base­ball game. 
"And now some answers to various in­quiries. Oscar Rust of pitching fame and my roommate for many years, is happily married 

- and is the father of three fine children, I was godfather for the second. Oscar is with the Randall Fuel Company in Cincinnati. We use his brand at our yard, so I vouch for its quality. How's that for some free advertising, Oscar? 
• "Jim Conmey, together with Bob Hamilton, helps to represent Notre Dame on Wall Street. John P. Mnrphj- is married and is with Swift & Company in Fort Smith Arkansas, while his brother, Conlcy, has gone to his reward. He passed away in Shreveport. - Louisiana some two years ago after an attack of influ­enza that turned into pnt:umonia and weak­ened his heart. His mother wrote me that apparently he had recovered from his illness and had come home to rest, then one morn­ing after breakfast his heart gave out. Every­one who knew Conley will most sincerely re­gret his passing, as a finer boy and truer friend never lived. 

"Ed McCormick is w*ith Lord & Thomas in Chicago and his principal w*ork at the moment is the program for the Pepsodent Company. Jack Mullen, another of our advertising stal­warts, is the author of the 'Myrt and Marge* series, which is nightly presented by Wrigley chewing gum. 
"Conrad Ochoa, whose home and business remain in Mexico, makes a trip to the states' occasionally. Last year he was in Chicago twice visiting with Dick Phclan. Dick con­tinues to gain fame and prestige with the Chicago Title &. Trust Company. 
"And now, Lou. it is with heartfelt sorrow that I report the death of our courageous and beloved Eddie Collins. Word reached the cam­pus the Sunday morning of Commencement that Eddie had died of a heart failure Sat­urday at Tucson, Arizona, He was buried in Chicago on Thursday, June 8. Eddie had won his battle against T.B. but the long drawn out struggle was too much for his stout heart. Any other person would have given up the fight long before. But as fearless courage and dogged persistence characterized his career on the gridiron, so these sterling qualities, together with his singular spiritual strength, stood him well during his long and turbulent illness. You are gone, Eddie, but the remem­brance of your trusting resignation and your cheerful disposition in adversity will again bring you to the assistance of j'our team and schoolmates when the going is tough. We are proud and grateful that you belonged to the class of '28." 
Tlie Columbus, Ohio "Citizen" of May 5 carried a long fcjature, with picture, of Jim Shocknessj*. "tall, * broad-shouldered and irre­pressible," and his "meteoric rise in politics. At the age of 32 he is regional counsel for the Home Owners Loan Corp, for Ohio and West Virginia. 
"At Jim's bachelor apartment at the Ath^ letic Club." continues the 'Citizen,' you may find a variety of public officials and politicians at any time—for there is something about Jim that makes strong men unburden their souls. 
"Jim is a great talker himself, but he is also a good listener. He hears many confi­dences but to get him to reveal them is another matter." 
Jim received his law degree from Har\*ard in 1931. In 1933, he was appointed assistant Ohio counsel for the HOLC and, in 1935, was made chief state counsel. He was named regional counsel in 1937. Since 1933 he has supervised the conduct of more than 10,000 lawsuits in Ohio and has directed for his corporation the legal operations of several hundred attorneys working on a fee basis. 
1 QOQ Secretary: Joseph P. McNamara, At­X«7^«7 j^^^ y Qgj, Office, Indianapolis, Ind. 
Commencement Registrants: 

Alt, Robert—Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Angsten. Ray—Chicago. III. 
Armstrong, F. J.—Akron, Ohio 
Baum, Ed—Battle Creek, Mich. 
Beamer. George—South Bend Ind. 
Bocskey, Stephen—Notre Dame 

Brautigam, George—Chicago, 111. Breen, John F.—-Chicago, III. Brown, John R.—Racine, Wis, Brumleve, C, 0,—Dayton, Ohio Brysselbout, Paul—Bay City, Mich, Burns, Henry—^Tonawanda. N. Y. Campbell, Darid L,—South Bend, Ind. Carton. Larry-Red Bank. N. J. Clements. Spalding—Owensboro. Ky, Cline, Virgil P.—Columbus, Ohio Cblaruso. Sam A.—^Newark, N. J. Cronin. W. F.—Dayton. Ohio Cutlcn, Matthew J.—Chicago. 111. Curry, James M.—^New York City Cushman. John^-South Bend. Ind. Dausman, O. D,—South Bend, Ind. DeDario, A. J.—Elkhart Ind. Digan, James E.—Logansport, Ind. Doan. Frank E.—Chicago. III. Dorgan, John W.—Chicago, III. Doughertj', Sylvester—Steubenville. Ohio Dowdall, W. P.—Buffalo, N. Y. PltzGerald, J. A.—Cleveland, Ohio Fortier. W, C—South Bend. Ind. Garrity, Ed—Chicago 111. Grathwohl. C. R.—Niles. Mich. Grey, Jack—Richburg, N. Y. Griffin, A. M.—Bethlehem. Pa, Grossman, Jules—South Bend, Ind. Haas, Ga>'Iord P.—Dayton, Ohio Hasley, Henry—Fort Wayne, Ind. Haugh. Richard—Delphi, Ind. Hemming. P. C.—Elgin III. Hilliard, R. M.—Chicago. Ill, Hinkel, John V.—New York City Holahan. Paul—Cleveland, Ohio Hughes. R, W.—Cincinnati. Ohio Jewell. E. A.—Bluffton, Ind. Johnson. W. J.—Detroit. Mich. Jones. Francis—South Bend. Ind. Kane, Dr. Frank P.—Binghamton, N. Y. Konop Kenneth J.—Indianapolis Ind. Kraker Joe—Akron, Ohio Krieg, Bill—Indianapolis. Ind. Kundert, Louis—Delphos, Ohio Landsman, P. C.—Buchanan, Mich. Lawless. Tom S.—Freeport, III. Leach, Earl—Grand Rapids, Mich, Leach. Floris—Grand Rapids, Mich. Leoneti. Eli—^Youngstown. Ohio Loughran. William—Hazelton, Pa. Lyons. John J.—Chicago, III. Mahoney, John J.—Chicago. 111. Martersteck. Karl E-—Lakewood, Ohio McDermott, C, E.—Chicago, III. 
•McDevitt. Ifarley—Passaic, N. J. McDonnell, Dr. George J.—Freehold. N. J. McMabon, Tom—Cincinnati. Ohio McManigal Hugh J.—Charlotte. N. C. McNamara, Joseph P.—Indianapolis, Ind. Metrailer, F. M.—Little Rock, Ark. Meyer, F. D.—Hammond. Ind. Molter. C.S.C., Re\-. John A.—Notre Dame Mulflur. Walter—East Chicago. Ind. Mulhall. Joe—Owosso, Mich. Murphy, Tom—Bridgeport, Conn, Nash, Joe—Chicago, III. Niezer Louis F.—Fort Wayne. Ind, O'Bryan, Joseph G.—Hepler, Kans. O'Connor, James C.—^New York City O'Connor, "William—Indianapolis, Ind. O'Leary. B, J.—Findlay, Ohio O'Malley, Walt—Aurora, 111. O'Rielly. William E.—Bridgeport, Conn. Plunkett. Donald—South Bend. Ind. Ragen, Jr., J. JL—Chicago, III. Reager John J.—^Perth Amboy. N. J. Rourke, John T.—Bridgeport, Conn. Schlager, Roland—Elgin. 111. Schneider. Cletus—Cleveland, Ohio Schulze, R- J.—Fond du Lac, AVis. Stnuder. Lawrence—South Bend, Ind. Thornton. Lou—Notre Dame llmlin, J. F.—Chicago, III. Tobin. Dr. James W.—Elgin, 111, Trotter. Robert M.—Chicago III. Tyler, Robert—Kansas City. Mo. Wagner. Fred—"nffin. Ohio Wagner. Willard—South Bend. Ind. Welzenbach. Al—^Peoria, III. Whalen, Joseph E.—Rock Islnnd. DI. Wilhelmy. C. B.—Columbus. Ohio Wozniak, Joseph—^Akron. Ohio 
John V. Hinkel. a member of the news staff of the New York "Times" since 1931, spoke at both West Point and Annapolis this spring on his observations of the Spanish Civil War. Both talks were given in his capacity as a reser\'e army officer. 
At West Point he addressed an audience of about 2.000 cadets, regular army officers and other guests under the auspices of the Cadet Lecture Committee. At Annapolis he spoke to the Naval Academy Newman Club. 
John spent six weeks in Nationalist Spain last summer as a working newspaperman. During this time he visited 22 principal cities, as well as many smaller communities .and fi\*e active fronts. He also spent another six weeks at St. Jean de Luz, Pcrpiffnan, Cerbere, Le Perthus and other places alon? the Franco-Spanish border obtaining material for special articles on the Spanish Civil War. 
A number of his articles appeared in the New York "Times." He also collaborated with Dr. Joseph F. Thorninir, of Mount St. Mary's CollcEe, Emmitsburg, Maryland, an outstand­ing authority on Spain, on a special series for the N.C.W.C. News Service. This series ap­peared in many Catholic papers all over the United States. 
'While in Spain John took 3.000 feet of 16 millimeter motion picture film. He has shown parts of this film at the Army War College. West Point and Annapolis, and to the Notre Dame Club of New York the Centre Club of New York, the Mercier Club of New. Jersey and to several other private groups. 
Bill Donclan, Box 469. Lcesburg', Virginia, wrote recently-to Registrar Bob Riordan re­garding a boy in Ottumwa, Iowa, Bill's former home town, who is much interested in at­tending Notre Dame. 
Hugh McManigal has a new connection as general superintendent of construction for the Goode Construction Corporation, P. O. Box 2492, Charlotte, North Carolina, and will be traveling nil over the Southeast. He*d like especially to hear from or about other Notre Dame men in the territory. 
Professor Paul Bartholomew recently repre­sented Notre Dame at a two-day session of midwest political scientists at Turkey Run state park, Indiana. 
Your secretary, all exhausted from umpiring the Softball thriller on June 3, summarizes the big week-end for you: 
"Morrissey Hall (T\venty-nine's headciuarters for reunion) counted 127 stalwart sons of The Class of '29, although it is reported that a few of the boys were kept so busy that they failed to sign their John Henrys at the Main Building. 
"But the Tempting Tenth was a gala re­union for several other reasons. It was Editor Jim Armstrong who first said 'it*s a long worm that has no turning* (and we hope he was the last to say it). Ennyhow the Nine Old Men of the tHoover Prosperity Class,' ah yes. decidedly trounced and shellacked the worthies of 1934 in the traditional thriller, the annual Softball game. The tabulators recorded 24 round trips for Captain Frank Eugenie Doan's crew of Willow Wielders as against 14 scat­tered runs achieved by the Bob Cahill con­tingent. This is the first time sinefe the days of Red Salmon and Ray Eichcnlaub that the ten-year class has ever downed the victory brew. Frank Doan proudly accepted the Dooley-Armstrong cup awarded to the victorious team; it was in keeping with one of Notre Dame's oldest tradition—remember the Varsity Mon­ogram show song 'My Gaboon?* 
"Chairmen Willard F. Wagner and Frank Jones of the local committee had things in such fine shape that the reunion was as hitch-Icss as Times Square. They and their com­mittee merit our heartfelt thanks, 
"We are all happy to hear from Jchn McShanc, S.J. of St. Mary's College, St. Mary's Kansas, and regretted that both he and J. B. Lcnihan of Belle Harbor, New York, were unable to be present, although we appre­ciated their messages of good will. 
"Matt Cullcn has announced the removal of his law office to Suite 1310 at 10 South La-Salle Street. Chicago. The telephone number is Center 3894.... Joseph P. Kinncarj'. form­er assistant attorney-general of Ohio, has re^ turned to .the: general practice of law,, with offices at 308 Atlas Bank Building, Cincinnati, Ohio. • ­
"Bill Craig is still up to his.old tricks and recently produced for local consumption, a 
. very entertaining musical comedy entitled 'Mike Fright.'* The book and lyrics were espe­cially well done and the show ,will he remem­bered for some catchyl melodies:''I'll be Sing­ing to You,' 'Love, Its Got Me.' 'Chimes in My Heart' and "The Shadow.' Bill is the head of the' Lion's Club at Muncie and can be reached at Station WLBO in the Anthony Building. Muncie, Indiana. 
"From deep down in the Gee-Haw District comes a message from Arnold L. Williams. Cy—as he was known before he actiuired his Ph.D.—silent the,period between *29 and *34 as a professor.'of English at the University, of North Carolina. In the spring of '37 he was married to the brilliant and beautiful Sallie, who nlwaj's made an A-pIus in Cy*s classes at Chapel Hill and who hails from Charlotte Court House, Virginia. Since June, 1937, Wil­liams has been teaching at the Missouri School of Mines, dishing out some very interesting lectures on such subjects as composition, pub­lic speaking, modern drama, oral interpreta­tion and the Literature of the Renaissance. The secretary wishes to report that he has heard tell that AVilUams occasionally publishes articles in learned journals given to literature and recently read a paper before the Modern Language Association. As a matter of fact we have it on unimpeachable authority that Cy is presently working on a modern text book—and he was such a nice chap! 
"From down Newark way we hear that Sam Colarusso is practicing law in the Military Park Building at 60 Park Place. Newark, and, that his phone number is Mitchell 2-3723. Sam attended, both Hao'ard and Boston University Law Schools and has specialized in criminal trial work. Sam states that Professor Kelly's public speaking courses have helped him a great deal in convincing his juries.. . . Dom­inic Tcrrari is now an M.D. and is considered one of Morristown, New Jersey's best practi­cioners.... Joe Scilla is also an M.D. and is presently taking advance work in New York with the view of specializing. Joe spent several years as a doctor with the United States Army.. .. From John W. Dorgan, who can be found at 928 No. 10 South LaSalle Street. Chicago, comes the following very interesting letter: 
" 'Jimmy Nowerj-'s letter smacked of the old Sooth—I've often wondered about the little Cajun and am certainly glad to hear that he's hitting the Jackpot. My best correspondents are Louis Niczcr of Fort Wayne and Frank Doan of Cleveland Heights (now in Chicago-Eds.). We.have managed, to keep fairly well together, at least. at Commencement — where we play for possession of the Casino Cup. What? You've never heard of the CUP? Well it seems that Casino was simple enough in school so we chipped in and purchased a cup which we award each year to the winner of a three-handed game of Casino usually held Commencement week. Thus far we also have a Golf Cup and a Tennis Cup as side lines. Our next cup is to be for the first member who has a son. Score so far: 
Doan—three daughters (not at once^. Niezer—one daughter. Dorgan—one daughter. " *Up here in Chicago George Brantigam 
who has been up and down the scale (the avoirdupois variety) .He is in the law business with Bill Kearney and Bert Korzeneski. Hnck Reynolds is.'alawyer and a'* steady-handball opponent for your correspondent. Vic Esiroccr is still evading the SEC and'is doing very-well in the stock and .bond business. 'Al Moore is a lawyer with a fund of stories and clients. I see Fred Miller occasionally when he gets down from Milwaukee. Jack ChcTigny also pops up every now and then.* 
"•'I should like to hear a.bout Jim Brady the Pocatello Potato, also of John Vincent Henkel and the ambassador's daughter (it's one word) and what has become of Joe D'Antremont (ex-president of the Holy Name Society) and of Vic Hart, and what about Louie Regan, ex-baker boy.' 
" 'Tom Ryan Is an occasional around town and Jack Elder Is still- knocking them out and'oyer for the C.Y.O.* 
" *I tried to locate Bobby Haghes when last in Cincy; but time was against me.' 
" 'Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vogelwede are carry­ing around snapshots of Robert Bernard, who arrived. March ;29, 1939." ' 
193 0 Secretary: Bobert Hellninff, Hnm­boldt BIdk.. S t LotiiB, BlisaMri. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Caniion, Jack—Columbus, Ohio Chapleau. Louis—South Bend, Ind. Collins Joe—Dayton, Ohio Golden, John D.—Chicago, 111. Heldcamp. P. L.—Chicago, III. Hellrung, Robert—St. Louis, Mo. Holland. Jerome P.—(Jhicago. 111. Holmes. Robert A.—South Bend. Ind. Lennon. C. F.—Jollet. 111. Parent, Fred—South Bend. Ind. Parent. Walter E.—Michigan City. Ind. Redgnte John—Bridgeport,- Conn. Reidy. Jerry—Cleveland, Ohio Rocap, John—Indianapolis, Ind. Ryan, Joe—Columbus, Ohio Shipacasse, Al—Cleveland,'Ohio Smalhvood. C. T.—Chicago. HI. Sullivan, Richard—South Bend. Ind. 
Bob Hellrung finishes the year In crashing style, while he looks ahead to that 10-year Reunion next June: 
"Men of Thirty: 
"Your class was well represented at the 1939 Commencement and at the dedication of the Rockne Memorial. A small reunion was held in Morrissey Hall and plans were made for our 10-year reunion next year. 
"Fred Parent of South Bend and Walter Parent of Michigan City were on hand but I did not have a chance to talk with them. Chicago was represented by Charley Small­wood, Paul Heidcamp, and Jerry Holland. They all look about the same as they did nine years ago. except that Smaltwood was com­plaining about losing most of his hair. But none of them seemed worried either about the depression or about the New Deal. 
"The 'watch charm' milkman. Bert Metzger, dropped in for the dedication of the Rockne Alcmorlal. We spied him in the crowd - in front of the Memorial building during the speeches and when the ceremony was over we went in search of him. but he had pulled out of the line and was gone. He was probably running interference for his wife. 
"Another Chicagoan who was registered at IMorrissey Hall was F. >L Ltmdon, whom I did not have a chance to see. C F. 'Chuck' Lennon drove do\vn from JoIIet, Illinois. He is a wholesale distributor of groceries for the Clover Farm Stores. He smokes a lot of good cigars so business must be all right, and he and Iklrs. Lennon boast of two children—a boy 
- and a girl. 
"John 'Bus* Redgate set the distance record this year when he came all the way from Bridgeport, Connecticut to see the fireworks. Jerry Reidy and Al Shipacasse drove in from 
The Notre Dame Alumnus June, 1939 
Cleveland together. Jerry was busj- on the golf course, but Al reports that he is with Firestone as a traveling auditor. He covers the entire state of Pennsylvania practicing the handicraft which he learned from Brother *Zip/ 
"John Rocap is a barrister in Indianapolis, working under the able guidance of his father. John is happily married and has one child. He told me very confidentially, though, that they are expecting the stork again soon, but don't tell him I told you. 
"Columbus, Ohio, was well represented by Jack Cannon, the insurance man, and the undertaker, Joe Ryan—some combination! Yes, Jack has definitely given up the coaching business, and is now busy building a perma­nent buaness of his own in insurance. They say that Joe buries four or five people a day in Columbus. At that rate there won't be anybody left in that town in another ten years. 
"Lou Hasley, the professor, is doing a bril­liant job in the Bnglish department at the University. According to information from the inside, be is teaching a couple of new sub­jects in graduate English during this summer school. Too bad his literary talent was not contagious 13 years ago when I roomed with him in Freshman Hall. 
"Jim Rigney* of the Chicago Rigneys, did not attend the Commencement activities on the campus, but he was moved to St. Louts recently, much against his personal wishes. The poor fellow is already complaining about the heat down here, and he shudders when we tell him that summer hasn't even begun. Jim is with the Scott Paper Company, selling Scott Tissue and paper towels. It is an excellent company, and though he has been with them only a short time, he is so confident of the future that he is now seriously contemplating matrimony. 
"How about some more news about the Commencement week-end, and about new^ de­velopments on the Campus? All right. Upon arriving at the campus I was directed to Mor­rissey Hall after registering at the Alumni Office and receiving a badge with my name and class inscribed. 
"Morrissey Hall was headquarters for the Thirties as well as the ISventy-niners and Twenty-eighters. {The Twenty-niners, by the way, celebrating their 10-year reunion, had the best representation of any class on the campus.) I was assigned to number 419 in the front of the building overlooking the golf course, the Rockne Memorial, and the dining balls. (My, how the scenery has changed!) 
"On the bulletin boards in all of the halls was an announcement of an alumni banquet in the east hall of the University Dining Halls at 6 p.m. Saturday evening. Needless to say, the boys turned out en masse. About 700 mem­bers of the Alumni broke bread while Joe Casasanta's band and several members of his Glee Club rendered a musical accompaniment. Father O'Hara and Professor Pat Manion spoke, while our own Joe McGIynn of East St. Louis, first vice-president of the Alumni Association, was toastmaster. 
"In case the menu for this dinner is not announced on some other page of this issue, a few of the high-lights were fruit cocktail pirette, salted cashew nuts, broiled whitefish, aprisian potatoes, filet mignon, new asparagus on toast points, petit fours and coffee. Com­pare this with every-day menus which we faced between 1926 and 1930. Has it changed? 
"Saturday night after the banquet an old time smoker was sponsored by the class of Twenty-nine in Brownson 'Rec* under Wash­ington Hall. Here the fellows played pool, ping-pong and cards, and there were just as many bull sessions as there were in the good old days. The only difference was in the aV sence of corduroy pants, hobnail shoes and lumberjack shirts—and there was no tobacco chewing. 

"Sunday morning we took a turn about the University golf course (for nix), and then cleaned up in the golfer's quarters of the Rocknc Memorial, where they have a golf shop, locker room and showers. Many of the fellows took a plunge in the new pool in the Rocknc Memorial Building, which incidentally, is one of the finest in the country. The water is heated and filtered, and the chlorine is weighed, if you please, in order to obtain the correct mixture. The boys are obliged to wear special white cotton trunks which are sterilized after each swim. (Some step-up from the old Brownson and Carroll 'bathtub' in back of the Main Building.) 
"Tommy Mills is the genial host in charge of the Rockne Memorial Building; and he can proudly say that there is not the most minute detail missing in the new play house. If my memory ser\'es me correctly, the building has three basketball courts, 12 handball and squash courts, a lounge room, class rooms for physical education, two swimming pools, the second one being a small pool at the end of the main pool with four and one-half or five feet of water for beginners. There is an amphitheater for spectators around the pool, and on the same level with the pool there are plenty of locker rooms and shower rooms, and the golf shop. 
"The most striking thing in the whole build­ing was a room in which a gigantic carbon sun light lamp hung from the center of the ceiling, and is capable of giving sun baths to 30 boys at one time, who lie stretched out on cots. In our days, the one small sun lamp in the varsity locker room of the gymnasium was used principally by the football players— and even the varsity baseball men had to have special permission to use it. 
"Today, even the boys from the LaSalle mezzanine lounge squad can have all the sun light treatments they wish. (Some difference!) 
"Other affairs attended by your secretary during the week-end were a baseball game in which that ever troublesome Michigan State team trounced our boys again in a close game, just when they were trying to put on a good show for the alumni and the Commencement visitors.... the conference of local alumni clubs, in which an interesting placement pro­gram was discusscd.... and the monogram banquet which was held Sunday noon and was well attended, especially by teammates of 
•Rock,' who were there principally to partici­pate in the dedication of the Memorial Build­ing. 
"I mention all of these things in order to impress you with the completeness and full­ness of the Commencement program. Need­less to say, my plans are already made to attend our 10-Year Reunion next year in June. It is not only an ideal short vacation, but barrels of fun and relaxation, as well as the most inexpensive week-end you have ever spent. By all means, plan to come to the party next year, because the class of '30 will have the biggest reunion ever held on the campus at Notre Dame. 
"Pay your alumni dues now because you 
are assured of collecting double your money's 
worth next June. 
"So that they may be remembered in your prayers, I give you the names of fellow mem­bers of the class of 1930 who died during the past year between June 1, 1938 and June 1, 1939. They are James D. Bresnahan, 30. Deming, New Mexico; Dennis F. Kelly, LL.D., *30» CSiicaco; and Daniel N. O'Shea, ex. '30, Waukegan. Illinois. May their souls rest in peace. 

"With this report your secretary will sign off for the summer months, until the next issue of the ALUMNUS. In the meantime all you fellows who have been intending to sit down and drop me a line.... do it now while business is slow during the beat of the summer. Have a pleasant vacation, and if any of you grow thirsty for a good cold drink, come through St. Louis and I'll buy you a 'Budweiser.' 
"Prosit! and Cheerio!" 

Father John Hill, St. Agnes Church, 1404 West Adams Boulevard, Los Angeles, recently asked Registrar Bob Riordan for a couple of catalogues for the use of the boys in his parish high school, which is operated by the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
Harry Sylvester, now residing at Valley Lee, St. Mary's County, Maryland, will again this year be represented in the annual O'Brien anthology of short stories with "The Crazy Guy," a Catholic labor story. Harry is the father of a new daughter, born on February 23, which makes one of each for the Sylvesters. 
1931 SecntMTji John Berffan, 838 E. Col­**'•' fax Ave., Sooth Bend. Ind. 
Commencement Registrants: 

Bergen, Arthur C.—^New York City Bergan. John—South Bend, Ind. Boyland. Joe—Grand Rapids Mich. Collins, John—Cleveland Heights, Ohio Coomcs. E. A.—South Bend, Ind. Costello. George—Chicago. III. Deeb, Joseph F.—Grand Rapids, Mich. Downs, Jim—Oak Patk, 111. Egan, Dan—Chicago, III. Flynn, Frank T.—South Bend, Ind. Gavin, J. J.—Cleveland Ohio Habing, Bill—^Indianapolis. Ind. Hershfield, M. C.—Goshen. Ind. Kearney. James—South Bend, Ind. McGreal. Francis J.—Chicago, III, Mooney, M. D.—South Bend, Ind. Mulrey, Morris—Indianapolis, Ind. Murray, Edward—Notre Dame Neydon. Robert—^Detroit, I^Iich. Oakes Thomas—Boston, Mass. Ruppe, R. J.—Chicago, 111. Salmon, T. G.—Trenton, N. J. Schroeder, J. R.—^Minneapolis, Minn. Shean, Hobart—Worcester, Mass. Stepan. A. C.—Chicago, 111. AVhalen, Louis—South Bend, Ind. 
John Bergan closes another year of hard and successful work—for" you—with this grand contribution: 
"The class had its own graduate this year in the person of Bill Leahy who received his Master's degree from Harvard in the June commencement. Bill has since returned to Chicago and is with the Victor Adding Ma­chine Co. June also was a great month, too. for three new benedicts in the persons of Tom Conley, John Carroll University athletic di­rector, who was married on the 17th; Nick Bohling, the Chicago barrister, who was mar­ried on the 24th and Harold Tnberty, Logans­port attorney, who was married on the 29th. Our best wishes are conveyed to each of them. 
"The informal reunion, though not so large, was a pleasant one in that it brought back a number of the yearly visitors and a few were on hand for the first time since graduation. This was particularly true in the cases of Hobart Shean who journeyed out from Boston \dth Ben Oakes and Ed "Spike" Sullivan. Hobie is now assistant manager of a Lowell, Massachusetts department store. Sullivan ac­companied by his wife left the Mattoon oil fields long enough to be on hand to witness his brother's graduation. Another rotund fig­ure present during the week-end was Art Berccn who brought his wife back to South Bend for a short visit. Art is still a New York Nash dealer. Other annual visitors were Gordic Salmon, the Trenton hardware merch­andiser; Bill Habing, Indianapolis accountant; Joe Boyland, Grand Rapids insurance agent; Joe Dceb, the new assistant district attorney of the Grand Rapids federal district; Frank McGreoI, Chicaso attorney; Al Stepan, chem­ical distributor; Morrie Mulrcy, Indianapolis inventor and air conditioner; Joe Gavin. Cleveland athletic director; Bob Neydon, De­troit Chrysler exporter and Myron Hcrahfield, sage of Goshen. 
"Paul Bott was a very enjoyable host at the Knights of Columbus state convention held in Fort "Wayne the latter part of May. So enjoyable was the hospitality of Paul and the other Logansport members that the Knights \vill meet there in 1940. John BUckwell, the grand knight of Indianapolis council, and John Rocap, capital city attorney, were also present. Bill Karl has recently joined the Bureau of Aeronautics in Washington and oft­en sees Ed Brcnnan. who left Grand Rapids for a job in the Capitol. Johnny Mclntyre is now president of the South Bend Retail Credit Association. Those that miss the records of the current leading hitters in the American Baseball League will be happy to Icam that Billy Sullivan is among the first six hitters in the league with a .350 batting average. Bill and his family are living in St. Louis, where he plays with the Browns. Joe Laucrman gained another notch in the knitting industry when he was recently named general manager of the Marinette (Wisconsin) Knitting Mills. 
**The Beaupre brothers are still closely asso­ciated with golf as Russ is a pro at the Grosse Point (Michigan) Country Club and Fran is in the golf department of the United States Rubber Company with headauarters in Cincinnati. Jim Kearney will visit Anst Boyle and Emil Telfel in New Orleans this summer. Ed Coomes. a member of the Physics depart­ment at the University, was the commence­ment speaker at Indianapolis Cathedral High school early in June. Larry Enricht is the new district manager of the Dictaphone com­pany for northern Indiana. Leo Hodcl is with the Commerce Clearing House, Chicago, and is still single. Johnny Dorschel and friend made the society page of the Rochester 'Trib­une' as the best costumed couple of the Bach­elors Ball held in the kodak city lost month. 
"Tom Coughlin is in the legal department of a Chicago brokerage house. A belated report from Spain informs us that Ednardo Melian has again returned to Madrid after a 15-month absence due to service in the Franco army during the war and that he is again following his engineering profession in re­storation plans for the city. George Costcllo has returned to Chicago after a five-year resi­dence in Detroit and Youngstown. Joe Schroe­der paid a short visit to the campus during graduation week but business called him back to Minneapolis. 
"Jim Rorke is a space buyer for one of the New York advertising agencies and is one of Gotham's eligiblcs. Bob Masscy is kept busy selling for duPont and the care of two daugh­ters in his spare time. The Frank Nolls also have a daughter bom in May. Bob Markland is now with the American Can Co., in New York City. Mike Kinney plans to make the 
N. Y. Fair and renew many acquaintances enroute. 
"Numerous letters have been written and pleas gone out for news of our absentees. Here's hoping that we may receive some re­sponse during the summer for it is our hope to have some news of every man in the class in the October issue. An invitation is also extended to attend the 19th annual Laymens' Retreat on the campus from August 5 to 8. Last year there were 10 members of the class present. Let's make it 30 this year." 
Harr>- Langdon is manager of the Dallas, Texas, office of Dictograph Products Co., Inc., according to recent word from Dan Halpin, vice-president of the firm in New York City. 
Two '31 C.S.C.*s, Father Alfred Mcndez and Father Thomas Culhane, together with Father Fred Schmidt, '33. are struggling with heat, dust, distances, a new language and the handicaps of their own housekeeping and cooking to care for Mc:dcan missions in Texas. Any assistance will be prayerfully re­ceived. Mass offerings are especially welcome. The address is St. Helen's Church. George­town, Texas. 
John Burke, who spent '30-'31 working to­ward an M.A. at Notre Dame, was in Febru­ary appointed warden of the Wisconsin state prison at Waupun. He had been assistant war­den for several years until the death of the former warden. 
Professor Frank T. Fl>nn was a speaker in early May in St. Louis at the conference of the Central States Probation and Parole Association. 
193 2 SecRtary: Herbart Glorfio, SOOS ItSA **^*'** Street. HolBi. L. L. New York. 
Commencement Registrants: 

Brasseur, A. J.—Mishawaka, Ind. Brown, Raymond S.—Lancaster, Ohio Collins, Jim—Dayton, Ohio Collins. John—Cleveland Heights, Ohio Connolly. John—^Toledo. Ohio Downs, Jim—Oak Park, 111. Ernst, Frank R.—Chicago, 111. Fabrycki, Richard—South Bend, Ind. Hechinger, Ernie—Chicago, 111. Hennion, George F.—South Bend. Ind. Jauch, John—^Nilcs. Mich. Kiolbasa, Walter A.—Chicago. 111. Norton. Frank—Rochester. N. Y. Oelerich, Francis—Chicago, 111. O'Malley, Frank—Notre Dame Petritz. Joseph—^Notre Dame Roethele. Bernard J.—South Bend, Ind. Rohrbach, R. J.—Chicago, 111. Roney, Richard—Chicago. 111. Salvaty, Ben—Chicago. 111. Scanlan, John M.—Muncie. Ind. Schiavone, Leo V.—Chicago, III. Spangenberg. Charles A.—South Bend. Ind. Van Rooy, William—Cleveland, Ohio Weiss, Charles—South Bend, Ind. Wieczorek, Edmund—South Bend, Ind. 
Art Himbcrt is one of the youngest news­paper publishers in Florida with his purchase this year of a 40 per cent interest in the "New Smyrna Beach Daily News" from Robert H. Gore, owner of a group of Florida newspapers. Art has an option on the reman­ing 60 per cent of the newspaper. He will run. not only the paper, but a job printing business and stationery store as well. He has been associated with the Gore papers since 1934. 
A grand letter from Dr. George Scelinger, 236 Greene Avenue, Say\'ille, Long Island. New York, tells of his getting started in med­ical practice. George is the father of three children. 
193 3 Sccretmry) Donald WIM . 110 PIcsMnt **"*•* Street, JoUet, IlUnots. 
Commencement Registrants: 

Bean, Joseph—South Bend. Ind. Breen. Jack—^Detroit. Mich. Canale, J. P.—Chicago, III. Cashman Ben—Hammond, Ind. Cogley, Edw.—Oak Park. III. Conley. Charles A.—Chicago, HI. Coughlan, Thomas E.—Chicago, 111. Crimmins, John M.—Chicago. III. Crowe, Francis J.—Chicago, III. 
Darmody. P. A.—Ghicmgo. lU. Duke, Norman—LaPorte, Ind. Fitzpatrick. J. D.—South Bend. Ind. Gerend Jim—Sheboygan. Wis. Griffin. T. E.—Chicago. 111. Hafron, Charles F.—South Bend, Ind. Hess. G. J.—Lansing, Mich. Hodel. Leo W.—Chicago, HI. Kanaley. J. D.—Chicago, IlL Kenny. James B.—^Niles, Mich. Lahey. Hike—LaForte, Ind. Laughna. F. J.—Grosse Pointe. Uieh. Lee, Maurice—Chicago, HI. Martersteck, William—Jackson, Hieb. McCafae, Joseph A.—Chicago, H L Moriarity, Ed—Detroit, Htch. Muellner, Joseph—South Bend, Ind. O'Shea, Russell J.—Cairo, HI. Ott. Philip W.—Michigan City. Ind. Pinkley. Jr., T. C—Portageville, Mo. Powers, C.S.C. Rev. Maurice—^Notre Dame Ruppe, Arthur—South Bend. Ind. Sextim. John T.—Indianapolis, Ind. Troy. Edw.—South Bend. Ind. Wiatrowski, F. L.—South Bend. Ind. 
Andy O'Kecffe is now a research chemist in the Sciuibb Institute for Medical Researdir New Brunswick, New Jersey. He wrote in with a swell idea for placement, now employed by the American Chemical Society. 
103 4 Seentexy: JUMS 1 LawiiUi Aw,. GUcM«k flMMk Commencement Registrants: 
Ayres, Bill—Binghamton, N. Y. Balog. M. J.—Perth Amboy, N. J. Begley, John H.—Detroit, Mich. Bloemsma. Elugene—Chicago HL Brugger. Leo—^Erie, Pa. Buckley, Jack—Chicago. III. Cahill. Robert—South Bend, Ind. Calhoun. George—Elmhurst, HL Carey, Cleve—Cleveland, Ohio Carpenter, L. R—^Rochester, N. T. Carr. John F.—Indianapolis, Ind. Cemey, Otty—Cleveland Ohio Chenal. Robert—Cincinnati. Ohio Clark. Robert L.—Mulberry. Ind. Colgan, Bob—Cleveland. Ohio Cbnkling, Emmett—Kansas CSty, Ho. Connelly, Frank X.—Rochester, N. Y. Cmkovic, Rudy—^Pittsburgh, Pa. Cunningham, Edward—Areola, HI. Curran. Maurice—Chicago 111. Curtin, Andries—Famams, Mass. Devine. John A.—Norwalk, Conn. DeWilde, John—South Bend, Ind. Dupray, Walt—Port Huron, Hieh. Dusch. William M.—Wheeling, W. Va. Farrell, A. G.—Rochester, N. Y. Fisher, E. J.—Utica. N. Y. Fischer, John—W. Orange N. J. Fitzmaurica Ed—Winchester, Ind. FlanneiTT. Howard H.—Babylon. L. I.. N. Y. Fox, Michael—Indianapolis. Ind. Foxen. George J.—^West Chicago, HI. Fransioli, Garvin—^Memphis, Tenn. Fransioli, Walter—^Memphis, Tenn. Froelich, D. J.—Glen Ridge, N. J, Fromm Bill—Racine. Wis. Gartland, James T.—-Canond^gua. N. Y. Graham. Edward—Chicago, HL Green, William—Sioux City, Iowa Grimes. T. R.—^Niles, Mich. Gross, Jr., L. T.—Tarrytown, N. Y. Hagan, John—Youngstown, Ohio Hanratty, Joseph E.—^Parma. Ohio Heckelmann, Charles—Woodhaven L. I., N.Y. Hellwig, Clarence—Chicago, HI. Hemming. J. G.—Janesville. Wis. Hendricks, Leo—Logansport, Ind. Hennessy, D. Bernard—Rochester, N. Y. Hockberger, William—Baton Rouge, La. Holland. E. J.—Chicago, HI. . Honerkamp. Frank W. —Brooldyn, N. Y. Horrigan Joe—Seattle, Wash. Huisking. W. W.—Huntington, N. Y. Kamasiewicz, Rev. Charles—^Etaltimore, Md. Kelley, Robert—South Bend, Ind. Kelly. Richard^Neenah, Wis. Kenney, W. J.—Charleston. W. Va. Kiely, John—Chicago, III. Kiple, John—Chicago, 111. . Kohs. George W.—Detroit Mich. Leonard, Jim—Loretto. Pa-Leonard, Russ—Louisville, Ky. Logan, John H.—Fort Wayne, Hid. Lynch, George—Benton Harbor. Mich. Maloney. George P.—Canton, Ohio Martersteck, Paul—Louisville, Ky. Matthys, F. W.—Chicago HI. Mauren. V. W.—Minneajralis, SCnn. McCann, Frank—S. Orange, N. J. McCanney, Vince—Wilmette, HL McGowan. Harry—Detroit, Mich. McMonngle. Dick—Cleveland. Ohio McShane. John—Chicago, HL Meyers. Mel—^Minneapolis Blinn. Mizerski. Norbert—Chicago. HL Molique. lUchard—Logansport, Ind, 
Monnot. Charles—Oklahoma City. Okla. Montie, K. L.—Wyandotte, Mich. Moran. Edward—ChicaRo, III. Morrison, James R.—Chicago, 111. Moscow, Jim—Chicago 111. Mottset, Bill—Peoria, III. Murphy. George—Galesburg, III. Nortman, Harry R-—Chicago, 111. Oakcs, Tom—Clinton, Iowa O'Brien. E. D.—Pittsburgh, Pa. O'Connor, John J.—Pittsburgh. Pa. O'Toole. William C—Pittsburgh Pa. Ott, Phillip W.—^Michigan City, Ind. Pavlick, John—East Pittsburgh, Pa. Quartuch, Joe—Michigan Ci^'. Ind, Quinn, C. F.—Mineola, L. I., N. Y. Quirk, Jack—Chicago, 111. Rainey. Bob—Gary. Ind. Rickus, Russell—Wheeling. W. Va. Rigante. Maurice J.—Plainfield, N. J. Roche. John J.—Staten Island. N. Y, Rock^vell, Har\*ey—Newark, N. J. Schenkel, Norbert—Fort Wayne. Ind. Schwartzel, Charles J.—^New Albany, Ind. Smith, J. Albert—^Indianapolis, Ind. Stemper, Russell—Chicago. III. Toomey Francis J.—Binghamton, K. Y. Tressel. John—^^Vaukegan, III. Troy, Raymond W.-—Newark, N. J. Umphrey, Tom J.—^Indianairalis, Ind. Vcencman, Bill—^Louisville, Ky. Venables. John—Qevcland. Ohio Vettel. Louis W.—^Ashtabula. Ohio Vitt. Francis—Chicago, 111. Waldron Howard—^Trenton. N. J. Weinheimer. E. F.—Detroit. Mich. Wenz, George E.—Jersey City. N. J. Vndgcr, Frank—^Evanston, HI. Wietig, Norman—Buffalo. N. Y. Young. John—Detroit, Mich. Youngen. J. P.—^Aurora, 111. Zimmerman, Bernard J.—Chicago, 111. 
From the modest guy who was largely re­sponsible for the whole thing. Bob Cahill, comes this grand report on a grand week-end: 
"Out of the haze of a grand and glorious reunion week-end for the Class of '34, your local chairman pauses a moment to reflect on the success or failure of the event. Since I am not the one to judge, I took a canvass, as some of you may recall, of the boys on the day following the Smoker, and in reply to the question "\\Tiat'd you think of the Smoker, fellas?" the answers were many and varied. Some can't be printed here, some paused from their popular acti\*ity of the moment to say it was all right, and some actually broke down and said they enjoyed themselves. One thing is certain—put me on record here and now as saying that regardless of who is in charge of the Ten-Year Reunion, there will be no cold-cuts. My apologies, gents. 
"The smoker was well attended, about 78 '34-*'rs there, and Elmer Laj-dcn was good enough to drop in and spend an hour with us. Jim Armstrong, and his assistant. Bill Doolcy, kindly found time from their innum­erable duties of the week-end to drop in also, for which our sincere thanks. 
"An innovation at the smoker was a door prize of two reserved seats to any of our football games next fall. They were won, aft­er much heckling of the chairman and a drawing by Prexy Moscow, by John Fisher of Jersey City, ^vho chose two Army tickets. Hope they're good ones, John. 
"I believe Joe Horrigan of Bothell, Wash­ington, gets the laurel wreath for traveling the farthest to attend, but if I'm wrong, stop mc. Believe John O'Connor of Pittsburgh should get honorable mention as Head Som­nambulist, not to forget Bill Motsctt as the human phonograph. 
"The ball game Saturday morning against the '29 Old Men was a huge success, with a smashing Olsen and Johnson finish. With Bob Chenal on the mound for *.^4, he set them dou'n inning after inning with not more than 13 runs per inning. '34 won out, of course, with a score of about 42 to 20. (Of course this won't check with the '29 report but Frank Doan never could add any\%-ay). The boys then retired to Howard Hall for informal 

entertainment, and participation' in the fine program laid out for the week-end" by Jim Armstrong. 
*'We were fortunate in having Father Charles Kamasicwicz, *34, newly orda'incd, say I^Iass for the class in Howard Chapel Sunday morning. The chapel was filled to overflowing, and the boys were ver>- pleased to • receive Father Charles' special blessing after Mass. It was a grand feature of the week-end, and everyone w-as most grateful to Father Charley. 
"Feeling sorry for Vince Rcishman, whose 

wife wouldn't let him away for the reunion, several of the boys called him by 'phone at Charleston, West Virginia, early in the eve­ning in order not to disturb his rest, and had a nice quiet Uttle chat. Bill Ayrcs of Bing­.hamton. (who incidentally is still here at this June 7 %vritjng) and Bill Motsctt were among 
those -who talked with Reishman. 
"Everyone departed some time Sunday, and, all in all, it was a fine Reunion. We're now training our sights on the Ten-Year migration, and let's hope that everyone of us will be back for that. Adios." 
News comes that Bill Powell and Chick Marra are safely past the New York state bar exam and that Bill will be married in August. The same dope sheet brought word that Tom Dalton was to be married in June. 
Ralph Else writes regretfully from his new job as inspector of naval material in Auburn. -' New York, to .say that he just couldn't make the '34 reunion on account of the pressure of his work. 
193 5 Secrctaty: Franklyn C Hochrcitcr* 530 St. Peter St., New Orleans, La. 
Commencement Registrants: 

Bock J. G.—Indianapolis. Ind. 
Buchert, Edward E.—Ix)uis\-ine, Ky. 
Buckart, Ed—Columbus, Ohio 
Burger, C. B.—South Bend, Ind. 
Campbell. J. Thomas—Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Caresio. J. C.—Chicago. 111. 
Gushing. Jerr>-—Chicago, III. 
Davis, Irwin V.—Ponchatoula, La. 
Duffey. Jack—Rochester. N. Y. 
Fisher Patrick J.—^Indianapolis, Ind, 
Fitzpatrick, P. J.—Chicago, III. 
Plynn. Joe—Chicago. 111. 
Foss. George—Chicago, III. 
Foy, John—Bloomington, III. 
Hniby. Lou—Cleveland, Ohio 
Krebser, Jchn—Kokomo. Ind. 
Leonard. F, M.—Chicago, 111. 
Loritsch, AI—Washington, D. C. 
Oakes Raymond W.—Chicago, 111, 
Pendergast. Jack—Chicago. 111. 
Pickard, C. J.—^Indianapolis. Ind. 
Prezebel, Dick—Cleveland, Ohio 
Proctor. T. G.—Elkhart. Ind. 
Schager, R. J.—Indianapolis, Ind. 
Settles, M. L.—Anderson. Ind. 
Sexton, W. L.—Indianapolis. Ind. 
Sheedy, M. M.—Snyder. N. Y. 
Tourek Claude W.—Chicago. III. 
Toussaint. Norbert F,—Notre Dame 
Hoch concludes his fourth year of swell service and concentrated hard work with this: 
"Here we are gang for the last time this year! Though we have not received our copy of the May ALUMNUS to discover if we were printed in toto last month we are tak­ing that chance, and clearing up what little we have on the desk. It was the first Com­mencement we have missed since 1931 so we cannot give the dope on tht»e returning for the gala week-end. But we leaving a listing of the registrants to our friend the editor. 
"Our profound apology gose to Frank Hola­han who sent in an interesting missive which was misplaced at the time of throwing to­gether our May copy. But we are really grate­ful for the error now, as we have something to go to press, for no letters came through at all. "Were it not for Frank's stuff and three very veo' surprising announcements that fol-' low, we would have had one large blank for '35 in the last issue. Not letting us down are you, fellas? Remember—this is your column, not ours. We can't operate without your help. . 

"But to the Treasury Department—Frank writes that on two trips w*est during the winter months he ran into John Pogue. Bill Ryan and John Ryan. The report comes through that both the first John and Bill have taken up married life. 
"Frank spent an evening at the Ryan apart­ment in South Bend on one of his trips. They are living on Lincolnway East. We belie%'e Bill continues with Associates Investment—^but wc are open for correction. 
"Brother John is in the accounting depart­ment of Ball Band in Mishawakn. The wires have it that Mrs. R. is an expert at the culinary art, 
"Jim Hamilton strikes into South Bend now and then and it is told that he is assisting the cider Hamilton run the family business. More info please, Jim! 
"Pittsburgh has claimed Bill Lord, we un­derstand. He has left the road to take up with his Dad in business. 
"A trip to the midwest could not be com­plete without a stop in Galesburg. AVhile there Frank ran into Tom Graves who is now reporting for a local paper. Last we heard it was teaching, wasn't it, Tom? 
"John Hallbcrg continues with the state -• auditing department in the Pennsylvania cap­itol—Harrisbufg. 
"Frank tells us that Jack Pendergast has taken up residence in Chi, but the nature of his work is not known. 
" "Thanks again, Frank, for the helpful hints for our. last offering. 
"Now to those three official documents that came to us w*ithin the month. First from Cortland, New York. Charlie Morris is a father. Yes siree, and the offspring Sharon Anne, born April 26, 1939, weighing in at 7 pounds, ll\ii ounces. It was swell of you to let us know, Charlie. Th^ class sends its feli­citations, and we offer our personal congratu­lations. May the next be a boy to make the score even. 
"One noon we returned to the apartment for lunch and found two formal looking envelopes staring us in the face. Both were postmarked 'Chicago,' but the handwriting was not the same. 
"That's right—they were wedding invita­tions. The first was asking our presence at the 'stepping off' of Richard 'Duke' Walters. Duke was to marry Anita Christine Schmidt on Saturday. June 17 in St. Philip Neri Church. Here is to the old 'lotsa of the besta* fella, from all of us. 
"The second nearly threw us I Wc have kidded about it in the column, wc have specu­lated about it in bull sessions, in fact we have been wondering if it ever would happen. But here it is—the Polish Ambassador of Good Will, Arthur Lucius Joseph Bernard Korzen­eski was to cease his state of beloved bachelor­hood at 'half after ten o'clock* on Wednesday, June 21 in Holy Name Cathedral. The girl— but who else? Of course it is Virginia Jarecki! We never expected to beat you to the gun, kid! 
"All kidding aside. Art—we know we ex­press the very best wishes of the whole gang when we say 'lots of luck, happiness and suc­cess to both you and Jerry for many many years.' You know you have our personal hand­clasp with all that friendship means. 
• "That about winds us up for another year. Not so hot! We've done a lot better in the 
June, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
past. How about a good rest this summer and then a really booming return to our former seU next October? Send us some letters during the summer so we will have a stock on hand to get started on next fall. 
"Mr. and Mrs. Scribe are leaving June 17 for a tour of the North. Our route will take us to Washington, New York City, Cleveland and Cincinnati, with a possibility of Chicago. We'll look you up as we go along. 
"Thanks much for the cooperation during the past nine months, fellas—and for you who sent in dope now and then—a double gratias. What about some of you silent partners join­ing in the policy making scheme of this job? 
"A big summer to you all I See you in October 1" 
(And start your plans now for the Hve-Year Kzunion on May 31, June I and 2, 1940.) 
193 6 SccreUcr: John Koran 61 B. 95th St., Apt. 2. New York City. 
Commencement Registrants: 

Baum. Arthur A.—Battle Creek, Mich. Baur, Bert—Chicago. 111. Bonet, Sebastian—^Angola, Ind. Dunn, E. R.—Grand Rapids. Mich. Ervin, Robert—Notre Dame Fulnecky, Karl D.—Frankfort, Ind. Geerts. Mark—Davenport. Iowa Geideman, K. L.—^Nilcs, Mich. Gottsacker Bill—Sheboygan. Wis. Grady, Tom—Chicago, 111. Guarnieri. Paul A.—Warren. Ohio Hurley, Ray A.—Mishawaka. Ind. Jeffers, Howard—Chicago, 111. Kerns, Art—Bay City, Mich. Kirwin, George—Charleston, W. Va. Kolka, A. J.—Irma, Wis. Kumrow, Edward—Buffalo. N. Y. Loritsch Jack—\VheeIing, W. Va. Mazziotti, Tony—Chicago, III. McKenna, James F.—Portland, Oregon MulhoIIand, A. J.—Kalamazoo, Mich. Murray, Frank—Elizabeth, N. J. Norton, John—Rochester, N. Y. O'Connor, Mike—Indianapolis, Ind. Prekowitz, Ted—South Bend, Ind. Prentice, John D.—Milwaukee, Wis. Schoonover Jack—South Bend, Ind. Struck, William L.—Dayton, Ohio Tetrault, Vernon A.—Springfield, Mass. Vogel, Jerome G.—Chicago, 111. Weber, Fred C—SL Louis, Mo. Wolf, George—^Port Clinton, Ohio 
Johnny Moran finishes another great year: 

"Another June, another Commencement, and another end-of-the-year column. We were not fortunate enough to be on hand for the gradu­ation festivities this year, but we trust that you who were enjoyed yourselves in making the rounds of the campus and the town. How was that old hang-out, the Oliver Co^ee Shop? And does the same crowd still block the side­walk in front of Hook's? How was the first dip in the Lake? And how w^ere all the other campus landmarks? We have our eye set on the Five-Year Reunion in 1941, but in the meantime we would like to hear from some of you who were back this past June. 
"In the mailbag this month was a very newsy, and very amusing letter from the Funny Man of Walsh Hall (fourth floor. North); Paul Larmer. Paul has been doing comic scripts for several NBC radio shows originating in Chicago, notably Don McNeill, whose 'Breakfast Club* show is heard over the blue nebvork six days a week in the morning, and 'Doc' Hall, whose 'Club Matinee* program was formerly heard in the afternoon over NBC. Paul also has had material on the NBC Jamboree on Friday nights from 8:30­
9:00 E.S.T. "The Lanner style being a distinctive one, we'll merely quote from part of Paul's letter, as follows: 'Tom Adamson, at the rate he*s going, will probably be president of the Bow­
man Dairy Co. some day. That wouldn't be so bad. but all the cows have indigestion be­sides. That's what happens when they let Ferdinand serenade them with Deep Purple. Bert Baur worked in Oak Park for a while with the Public Service Co. He is now in Chicago, I believe, working for the same elec­tric company. I'd tell you more, John, but it's such a shocking subject.* 
"'John Coyne was working for a master's degree at Stanford when I last saw him. John Hopkins of New Orleans, with that slow southern drawl to match, is working for the state of California. Both he and Al Torribto went to U.S.C. after Notre Dame. Al got married and supports a wife. Johnny stayed single and supports Santa Anita. The last time I was in that Chamber of Commerce weather Johnny showed me Hollywood, the Clover Club, the Seven Seas, the Trocadero. The IVocadcro is now closed, but the memory of that blonde still lingers on. She was one of those baseball blondes. She sat in the half-buck seats so she could bleacher hair.' 
" 'George Ireland is athletic director at Marmion Military Acndemy in Aurora, about 40 miles from Chicago, as the crow flies, but I ain't seen one do it yet.... George, who now has two very fine children, had a very suc­cessful basketball season. Art Kerns, who used to share one of those double-decker beds with me, which sounds like the old bunk, is work­ing for the Personal Finance Co. in Bay City, Mich., just a good spit and a short beer from Saginaw, his home burg. I'd like to know what happened to "Handsome Jack'* DcGarmo. He was working in Sooth Bend and was half­way up the middle aisle when I laat heard al>out him.* 
" 'Gene Malloy is one of Burrough's Adding Machine Company*s best salesmen.... Don McKay and Fred Cox are still at Northwestern Medical School. I believe.... I wanted to be a doctor once, but I was afraid I'd lose my patients. Jimmy 0*Kcefe, doing very well in the coal business with his father, was married right here in Oak Park about a week ago. Another Oak Parker, John Ryan, of the golden pipes, is modeling and is taking singing les­sons on the side. John has had his good looks spread over many a national publica­tion of late, which is mighty fine, if you ask me. As long as you didn't, I might say that Ted Prekowitz is finishing law school at Notre Dame this June. Pete Nemeth, another good South Bender, the way I heard it, was mar­ried and is now living in Indianapolis. He may be back in South Bend by now though. 
" 'Bill Higgins, more smiles to the square inch than ten other humans, is w-orking in Racine for Sears Roebuck.... Bill will prob­ably be a director of that company some day, just like his father was, Dave Flynn is now back at the University of Michigan, I believe. Joe Sullivan was working for United Air Lines in Chicago when I saw him last about a year ago." 
" 'I met Al Rohol in the Merchandise Mart the other day.... He is now doing very well in the insurance business for the W. A. Alex­ander & Co. on LaSalle SL Last August, when they w^ere studying for the Illinois bar exam­ination, I ran Into most- of those soon-to-be lawyers who were staying at the Lawson "Y." 
while they took Baker's quiz course Frank Smith is now with Hutson, Bolger and Trae­ger in Chicago and doing mighty fine. Frank and I, who went through Fenwick here in Oak Park together, serve as a source of con­solation to each other.... When he gets a tough law suit and thinks things are going bad, I invite him over to read some of my jokes. Of course, I'm no fool; I give him a clothes pin to put on his nose before he even gets up the front steps.' 
" 'Of the "Three Republicans," Jim Baks has his own office out in Dixon, 111. Ji n Batfce works for the Bowman pmry Co. in its traf­fic division. At a New*' Year's party I met Jim Burke, so I asked him how the third Republican was doing. 'He went off on some­thing about liking chocolate sodas. Personally. I'll take Minells (Sam) Several months ago at a Rosary CoIIf'ge dance I met Lake Tieman. now with International Business Ma­chines, and Prial Cnrran.... Bill Bowes and George Thomas have »tuated in Chicago, I understand. I saw Bos Meyers, Hany Weak­ley, and Jim Boyle at that time I mentioned, but how the boys are doing I couldn't say. Bob Chizek rang the bcH the first time out In Iowa, and two to one is doing right well at this moment in the law business. If yon will. John, grabe me a line on my old roomie. Tom Downing, of Baldwin, Garden City and points east. I wrote him a letter once but it most have gone to 10 Downing St. instead, because I got an umbrella hack with the crack: "Don't loan your umbrella to a fair weather friend." ' 
"And that winds up Paul's very welcome letter. Thanks again. Paul, and let us hear from you more often. Also in the mail this month was a letter from Charley Fitzsimons, who has finally settled down in Cassopolis, Michigan, after covering a lot of territory since that sunny June afternoon, when we snatched our sheepskins in the Gym. Fitz writes that he worked as a ticket agent in a bus depot in Detroit after graduation and up till August, 1937. He next hopped to Buffalo for a short space as a room clerk at the Statler Hotel. Next he popped up as an aviation cadet in the U. S. Naval Air Reserve. Pensacola, Florida. Fitz remained in the ser­vice from November, 1937 to May, 193S and writes that he enjoyed himself immensely iin­til his eyes went bad and he had' to resign. However, he did manage to put in 190 hours of solo flying, in both land and sea planes. Personally, Fitz, we wouldn't care to be off good old Mother Earth for that long a period. Fitz now can qualify for a transport pilot's license, and still does a little soloing in South Bend and Niles. 
"After leaving the Navy. Fitz worked as sur^-eyor for the Southern Michigan En^neer­ing Co. of Lansing, putting up rural electri­fication lines, from June. 1938 to December of the same year. Presently he is in the in­terior decorating business in Cassopolis. so if any of you Mid AVestemers are furnishing homes, we recommend the fitzsimons con­
'^ cem. Fitz is also agent for a Venetian blind company, Clark & Hammer Inc. of Belleville. New Jersey and is making out so well, that wedding bells will ring for him in August. Congratulations, Charley, and best wishes from ' the class. 
"Your Mr. Fitzsimons further reports that Jim SiddaU is no longer with the Army Air Corps and that Joe SoUivan is employed by Transcontinental & Western Airlines in New­ark, New Jersey. Frank KeUner, when last heard from, was with McKesson & Robbins in Buffalo. While down in Pensacola. Fits bumped into Jtfatt Themes, who was playing baseball in one of the Southern leagues. (Aside to 'Shorty* Themes: How about a Une about yourself.... you always claimed Commerce men could read and write. And that goes for your roommate PanI 'Fallen Arches* RaUy). Thanks for the letter, Fitz, and we certainly 
will drop in to see you if we get out to Notre Dame again. 
"The last item from the mul-bag is from our former roommate. Cliff Brown, leading legal light of Norwalk. Ohio. Cliff dropped a line to let us know that he was going back to Notre Dame for Commencement, and in­quiring whether we could be counted on to be among those present. As we received the letter the Friday before Commencement, we didn't have time to dash off a hasty reply to reach the legal minded Mr. Bro\vn in time. So just drop us a line. ClifT, and let's hear what happened over that particular week-end. And incidentally, our best to the charming Mrs. Brown. 
"Hie mail-bag being now, definitely, quite empty, w*e can see the end of this column rushing on us. The crowd in and around New York continues as active as ever. Your corre­spondent regularly teams up with Jim Kirby to engage in some pretty wild handball games with Vincc Hogan, Cy Strokcr, Jim Mac­Dc\itt, Joe Crctty, Jerry Kane, and Bill Moss. Now that the boys have taken to tennis also, Jim and yours truly have been threatened with dire consequences in retaliation for a couple of those handball scores. Saw Joe Donnino and Jim Sherry, among others, at the May alumni meeting, at which we had the pleasure of hearing Father O'Hara, Johnny Farrell, fam­ous golf expert, and Max Marck, ex. '3S, who boxed a preliminarj' bout a few nights later on the Max Baer-Lou Nova card. Donnino, incidentally, copped one of the door prizes, a quart of something or other, that didn't look very much like soda pop. 
"Also saw Charley Williamson, who popped up for the first time in many months, to state that he is now a research chemist with Gen­eral Motors, at Harrison, New Jersey. Jcrrj-Kane. *38, all tanned from a winter spent in Tuscon, Arizona, Bud Goldman, and Jim Keilly, were on hand, as was Joe Schmidt. Bumped into Ray Kenny on Broadway some days back. Ray reports that the insurance business is coming along slowly, but that the future holds much promise. 
"And so, with these few lines, we'll call it quits for this year. We trust the column will be able to resume next September with a pile of mail six feet high. So drop us a card when you go on that two weeks vacation, and we will duly record the event for .all coming generations. So.... till next fall... a pleasant summer to you all" 
The marriage on April 22 in Oak Park, Illinois, of Jim O'Kecfe and Ruth McGrath (sister of Ray, '37 and Bob '38) was almost an exclusive N. D. affair. Barrj- O'Keefc, '32, brother of Jim, was the best man. Among the other attendants were: Bill O'Connor, Bert Baur. Tony Mazziotti. Tom Grady and Dan O'Brien, all of '36. Marty Bums, '37, John Buckley. '33. 
Andy Hcllmuth was recently elected presi­dent of the Springfield, Ohio, Junior Chamber of Commerce. Andy is a junior member of the firm of Link and Link, Inc., real estate brokers and insurance representatives in Springfield. Right at the moment, however, his chief claim to fame is that he is the brother of Paul Hcllmuth, '40, who finished off a few weeks ago the agony and thrill of being editor-in-chief of the 1939 "Dome." 

"With their dieck for alumni dues Louis and Fred Gabriel sent word that they were com­pleting their junior year at Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, along with Jim Quinn. John Brady and John Schaffcr. All five of the boys have junior intemeships for the summer. 
IQI? Secretary: Fan! Foley. 18036 Sdiocn­
**'* " hoer Road, Detroit, Mich. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Battaglia, Joseph—Buffalo. N. Y. 
Brogger, John—Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Bowes, W, R.—Park Ridge, 111. 
Brown Clifford—Norwalk, Ohio 
Cackley, John—Charleston. W. Va. 

The Notre Dame" Alumnus 
Caldwell, M. J.—^Louisville, Ohio Carroll. Frank—New Rochelle, N. Y. Cook, Tom—Charleston, W. Va. Coyle, John—Chicago, 111. Dillon, T. R—Girard. Ohio Dorgan, Joe—Chicago, 111. Druecker, Joe—Indianapolis, Ind. Fairbum James—Chicago, 111. Froning. Joseph—South Bend, Ind. Gott, A. F.—Chicago, HI. Hartnett, Vincent—Pelham. N. Y. Hughes. J. M.—Menomonie, Wis. Huisking. Ed—Huntington, N. Y. Huisking, Frank R.—^Huntington, N. Y. Hurley, John—Rushville, N. Y. Janks. Fred—Los Angeles, Calif. Jordan, William—^Notre Dame King, Tim—Niles, Ohio Lands, Ernest L., XiaForte, Ind. Ling, Gene F.—Chicago, III. McAuliffe, J. H.—Chicago, 111. McGrath, Ray—Oak Park, III. McKeating. Bob—Chicago. 111. Meyers. Charles—^Elgin, 111. Mix M. B.—Indianapolis. Ind. Nims, John F.—^rand Haven, Mich. Norris, Richard—Trinidad, Colo. O'Byrne, Robert J.—Chicago, 111. O'Hara. James—Chicago, III. Pendergast, Thomas M.—Chicago, 111. Thomas, Robert J.—Lowell. Mass. Wolter, Fred—Huntington. Ind. 
Miller Mallctt is now^ in the purchasing department of the Hotel Gibson, Cincinnati. 
293g Secretarr: Harold A. WUHaou, 2U East Lake Are.. Baltimore, Mafyland. 
Commencement Registrants: 
Anderson, Paul H.—Pittsburgh, Pa. Anton J. F.—Chicago. 111. Armel. William B.—Chicago, 111. Bodie, Robert—Chicago, HI. Boyle, James E.—Sycamore, 111. Boyle, Leo R.^—Garj-, Ind. Brennan, Edward—Chicago, 111. Brogger, George—Grand Rapids, Mich. Canale, Joe—Memphis, Tenn. Clifford, J. J.—Chicago, 111. Crisanti Joseph—Benvj*n, 111. Crowe, Mike—Indianapolis. Ind. Curran, Prial—Chicago, 111. Currier, Don—^Detroit, Mich. Denten, Jack—Chicago, 111. Doozan, Carl—Saginaw, Mich. Duggan. Redmond—Durango, Colo. Duke. Charles W.—LaPorte, Ind. Eby, Lawrence T.—South Bend, Ind. Foy, Jr.. Thomas—Central, New Mexico Germann, R. J.—^Ripley. Ohio Govern. Fred—Clinton. N. Y. Hess. Larry—^Humboldt, Kans. Hickey, Don—South Bend. Ind. Hickey. Ed—Chicago, 111. Humphrey. Henrj'—South Bend, Ind. Kiszeli, Paul J.—South Bend, Ind. Kolp. Charles A.—Canton, Ohio Kowalski, C.S.C., Edmund—^Notre Dame Leonard, Robert—Wilmington. Del. Lungren, John C.—Sioux City, Iowa McCarthy, James E.—^New Haven, Conn. Moore, E. J.—Detroit, Mich. Moulder, Jack—South Bend, Ind. Nowak, Paul—South Bend. Ind. O'Connor, John—^Indianapolis, Ind. O'Donnell, R.—Chicago, HI. O'Laughlin Francis J.—Chicago, 111. Plouff, John—^Marinette, Wis. Potter, E. E.—Toledo, Ohio Rieder, John—South Bend. Ind. Rydell, O. F.—Chicago, 111. Skoglund. Len—Chicago. III. Thulis, J. J.—Chicago. HI. Weber. Herb—South Bend, Ind. Webster, Robert—Midland, Mich. Welsh Charles E.—^Mahanoy City, Pa. Zoss, A. O.—South Bend. 
Hal Williams winds up a super year of sec­retarj'ing—and lest you forget, a lot of plain old hard work in j'our behalf—with the fol­lowing : 
"Mail from the b'hoys since the May issue hit the street has been unusually light so it won't take me long to grind out the little news that I have. 
"Tiger McGrath has been working hard at Catholic U. after spending three weeks in Chicago for the Easter vacation and his sis­ter's wedding. The Tiger is doing fine at C.TJ.—^besides leading the freshman law class he is the light-heavyweight intramural boxing champ of the University. In between stud^ng and boxing, Tiger finds time to drop over to Baltimore for week-ends. Hger has acq:aired 
June, 1939 
quite a reputation among the Trinity College girls for his quaint domestic idiosyncrasy of hanging wash in his window which fronts on Michigan avenue, right opposite the Trinity campus. McGrath says that he and Buckley really enjoyed themselves at the Chicago Club Easter dance, and the Universal Notre Dame Night banquet. 
"Tom Hutchinson is still the ace publicity director of the Indianapolis Public Library. Besides feeding copy to the eager Indianapolis sheets he is conducting a radio program for the Library which, according to Hutch, is twice as good as 'Information Please.' Hutch writes that George Smith came over to see him recently. George has been ill and hasn't been working lately. Tom also mentions see­ing Hank Theis in some of the Indianapolis hot spots with a good looking girl. 
"Ed Bartnett, another of the four star con­tributors to this column, supplies us with the information. *I suppose you know Bill Wocm­er has been transferred by Seagram's to San Francisco. I see Bill Gallin. Tom Shiels, Red Sclafani, and Foots Eliot often; they are all doing what they were doing the last time I wrote you. Chuck Beaslcy, who's been up a couple of week-ends lately, is at the same job. Hank Leader, I hear, has some sort of a job, but I haven't seen him at all. At the last meeting I went to, the only classmate present w*as Gene Vaslett who's in the insurance rack­et. One day I saw a couple of fellows. It seems Jim Sullivan, working on Long Island, came to New York for the day and bumped into Yin Duggan, who had just arrived by rail from the coast. They both dropped up to see me. The next day 1 ran into Charlie Callahan just in from Arizona. I've seen him several times since. Both Duggan and Callahan were looking for Fair jobs. Bill Marguet. they tell me, is now a reporter on the "News." Around Easter I was passing through Grand Central when I saw Phil Currj*, ex. '38. He went to Harvard and then switched to Yale Law School. A few days later I saw Chuck MSiz­ger and Dave Gelber take the train back to 
N. D. I saw several other fellows at Easter, but they weren't from our class.' 
"Ed is still working as copy boy for the New York 'Times.' He is doing quite a bit of writing on the side, and recently had some of his poetry published in the 'Times.* As you all know, the 'Times' has a high standard for their verse—in fact, Ed's poetry is just a step from the Louis Untermeyer anthology. Ed is still writing book reviews and doing stories for the N.C-W-C, the Catholic Asso­ciated Press. He wrote a short novel, *Snow On a Starry Night' which he sent to 'Scrib­ner's,' but the magazine folded a week after the story was sent in. I don't believe Ed's story had anything to do with the editors throwing up their hands and walking out... . 
"My old roommate. Bud Sherwood, stopped working for General l^Iotors long enough to dash off a nice letter. They've been pretty busy out there making cars so Sherwood has been busy for three weeks working two shifts every day.Bud w^rites that Bob Hngler, ex. '38, (the fellow who practiced on his saxophone in our room because he was afraid of the rector in his hall) is working for a lunch packing firm in Flint. Bob was in an automobile acci­dent recently and received quite a banging up. He has recovered and is as talkative as usual. 
"The day after I sent the May copy to the ALUMNUS. I received a note from one Miss Dorothea Griffith, of Baltimore, who informed me of Hal Langton's coaching and teaching job at LaSalle Institute in Cumberland. Miss Griffith covered the information published in the Hay issue, but also had the news that Hal 

June. 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 243 
was tryinc out for the Baltimore Orioles when he received the Cumberland offer. I've talked to a number of Cumberland people and they arc very enthusiastic over Hat's appointment, and predict bi^ things for LaSalle. 
"Odds and ends: I bumped into Francis Traynor, of the '37 class, the other day. He is studying medicine at Maryland in Baltimore ... . Tiger McGrath writes that Johnny O'Leary, an N.D. Law man. won the gradu­ate law scholarship at C.U. Tiger also 
played on the C.U. baseball team this year... A cousin of mine in Chicago literally bumped into Nick Lambcrto on State street in Chicago a week or so ago. Nick is still working for the 'Herex' and rooming with several N.D. boys at 849 North Michigan Boulevard. 
"And that winds up the news for this issue. I wish to thank all the fellows who contrib­uted to this column and gave us the lowdown on the classmates who are scatterei from Cup Cake, Idaho, to Jerusalem. I think spe­cial thanks should go to Bartnett, Solon, Vas-Ictt, Hatchinson, Callahan, Tom Shicls, Moose Waters, and McGrath, for their frequent con­tributions. I haven't been able to answer all the letters I received during the year but I promise to get an answer off to everj'one who wrote in before September rolls around. Thanks again, and don't forget to keep writing." 
By the first pony express came Tom Healy's address, from Tom himself, in response to that note in the May ALUMNUS. Tom is residing at 103 Vermilyea Avenue, New York Cicr. Ed Hogan, Binghamton, New York, had told him that his address was wanted. 
Tom said that Hank Leader, who finished this past February, is with the New York City News Agency. 
Ray Meyer, who ran down many a basket­ball floor, marched slowly up the middle aisle on May 27, but the details as to bride's name, place, etc.. are lacking. Even Maestro Petritz, who knows everything, doesn't know. 
COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS 
(Continued from Page 212) 

casts to unseen millions — and liter­ally the thin^-s that make for our daily bread, from the seven seas, from the iive continents, are ours as a matter of course. 
Throughout this period there has been abundant opportunity for men and women in almost every line of endeavor. Industry, enterprise, indi­vidual effort, initiative, could not be denied. It was truly a time where the rewards of yesterday nourished the aspirations of tomorrow. 
Perhaps it is this over-abundance of aspirations and opportunities that brought us some of the ills of to-day which cloud and make uncertain the outloo k ahead, which lead many thoughtful people in their unimagin­ative moments to question whether there are any more frontiers left to explored—^lead them to doubt whether individual enterprise has not become so restricted, and so limited, as to dis­courage the search for better things. This view is as old as the pages of history—and it is fallacious to-day as it has been proved to be in the past. The world has never been without those who hold that there is little or no hope oifered for the future. 
The advance of human intellect can­not be suppressed. 
The pioneering spirit of free men will not die. 
But most important of all, the wants of mankind cannot be denied. 
Human nature with its perfections and imperfections remains the same. 
•Hope, ambition, aspiration remain the most cherished traditions of our American heritage. So long as this is so the future of the coming gener­ations will be abundant in opportun­ity, and I hold firm to the belief that free enterprise will continue for all. 
No generation is ever without per­iods of disillusionment, and much of the road ahead is uncharted. But in my mind, as your road of tomorrow takes form, there is an ample range of opportunity for those who are will­ing, eager, and understanding. 
Men of Notre Dame have a blessed and a sacred heritage. You have been privileged to mature here where in­tellect and religion enjoy equal free­dom. You of the Class of 1939 go forth abundant in knowledge and rich in those most precious virtues—^love of your fellowman — respect for au­thority— affection for truth—rever­ence for God. Hold steadfast to those virtues — with them as life moves on you will learn to value the things that make for the good of men and the glory of God. 
I salute you for your achievement of to-day — it marks devotion to try­ing years of work. I know of your joy — I know of the joy and grati­tude that is in the hearts of yonr par­ents and other loved ones to-day. revere with you the sacred heritage that is yours. 
Golden West Can. Rockies Tour $179 
Three Days in San Francisco 

New York World's Fair Tour $69 
Extension Tour to St. Aiine de Beaupre. $62 
See Both Fairs..  ..$199  
14th Annual Little Rower  
Pilgrimage  $275  

Round Trip to Ireland (3d class) $167 
JOHN F. HEALY, "30. Manager 

Hayes-Healy Travel Bureau 
193 N. LaSalle St., Chicago Randolph 6560 
MVEHNRT BUCMUMK 
Djuuimt, to. Dmivvt.to. •a».fc 
7 HOTELS 
EACH OUTSTANDING 
The gracious hospitality and beautiful 
modernness of Blackhawk Hotels will provide your guests with unsurpassed Comfort in their "line of travel." Each 
hotel, oustanding in its community . . . the finest of restful surroundings at moderate rates. Suggest BLACKHAWK . . . your guests will appreciate it. 
BLACKHAWK JBOTEM^ COMFAKIT 
f St. Paul, Minn. -^.^"^ ^ 
The Chesterfield glove, created by New York's 
smart designer Merry Hull... 
Original and different too is Chesterfield's way of combining the world's best tobaccos to bring out the finer qualities of each. It's the Chesterfield way and that's why Chesterfields are milder than other cigarettes. They also have a better taste and more 
pleasing aroma. Chesterfields really satisfy 
HAND-AND-6L0VE WITH 
Copjrrijht 1939, 

MORE SMOKING PLEASURE 
XJGGEiT&Myas 
Toucco CO. 

A Supplement to the Notre Dame Alumnus 
JUNE, 1939 ^ 
Report of the Rockne Memorial Campaigns 
A record of alumni participation fronn 1931 to June 20, 1939, by Classes. 
TOTAL NUMBER OF CONTRIBUTORS TOTAL NUMBER OF ALUMNI CONTRIBUTORS 
TOTAL AMOUNT CONTRIBUTED TOTAL ALUMNI CONTRIBUTIONS 
1890 and Before 

Number of vtcmbers address knoton 50 Number contribvtors to Rockne Memorial 14 Amount contributed Rockne Memorial $895.00 
Anderson, Robert M.—Circleville, O. Ucatus, Mark—Memphis, Tenn. Richards, David K.—Washington, D. C. Chute, Ixiuis P.—Minneapolis, Minn. Judie. James A.—South Bend, Ind. *Major, A. J.—^Mishawaka, Ind. Neeson, John T,—Philadelphia, Pa. Newmark, Henry—Ix)s Aneeles, Calif. Pilliod. L. N.—Swanton, O. 
•O'Connell. Wm, K.—MonticeUo, Ind. Scanlon, Hon. Kickham—Chicago, HI. Smith, Joseph C.—Chicago, III. Stange, Wm. J.—Chicago. 111. Thiele, Rt. Rev. IVIsgr. Charles—Ft. Wayne, Ind. 
1891 

Number of members address known 8 Number contributors to Roehne Memorial 2 /l»ioune contributed Rockne Memorial §205.00 
O'Brien, George L.—South Bend, Ind. Rebillot, J. F.—Canton, Ohio 
1892 

Number of members address knoion 17 Number contributors to Rockne Memorial 4 ^7tiount contributed Rockne Memorial 51.151.00 
Adler, Max—South Bend, Ind. Anson, George M.—Merrill. Wis. 
Chute. Fred B.—^Minneapolis, Minn. 
Fitzgibbon, J. R.—Newark, O. 
1893 

Number of members address knoum 14 Nuiiibcr contributors to Rockne Memorial 3 Ainount contributed RocfMe Memorial §90.00 
Donahue. M. E.—South Bend, Ind. Maunis. Edward J.—South Bend. Ind. Neill, Charles P,—Washington. D. C. 
1894. 

Number of- viembers address knoic7i 19 Number contributors to Rockne Memorial t Amount contributed Rockne Memorial $167.00 
Butler, Sr., F. J.—Cleveland, Ohio Correll, William A.—Johnstown, Pa. Fitzgerald, C. C.—Habana, Cuba Hilger. Dr. Andrew W.—St. Paul. Minn. Meibers, Michael—Decatur, Ind. Monahan. Dr. R. C—Butte. Mont. O'Donnell, Hugh A.—New York City 
1895 

Number of members address Imoion 32 Number contributors to Rockne Memorial 4 Amount contributed Rockne Memorial $51.00 
Morrison. Bruce—Indianapolis. Ind. Mott. John G.—Los Angeles, Calif. Schnur, Martin J.—Goshen. Ind. 
•Soulirada, James F.—Chicago, III. 
1896 

Number of viembers known 15 Number contributors Rockne Memorial 3 Amount contributed Rockne Memorial $125.00 Barton, Dr. Francis W. Danville, HI. Pulskamp. George F.—Celina. Ohio. Wurzer, Louis C.—Detroit, Mich. 
The Participation by Classes 
1897 

Nuinbcr of members address knoion 15 
Wumbcr contributors to Rockne Memorial 9 
Amount contributed Rockne Memorial $990.00 
Bryan, Charles M.—Memphis, Tenn. J\racNaniara, Rev. John A.—Mt. Qemens, 
Mich. aicShanc, Rev. J. F.—Indianapolis, Ind. Niezer, C. M.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Schwartz, Charles L.—Salina. Kans. Staples. E. Douglas—Calimete, Cuba. Tinnin, Granville—Jay Em. Wyo. Walsh, Hon. Wm. A. Yonkers, N. Y. Weaver, Dr. W. Burnett—Miamishurg, Ohio. 
1898 

Number of members address known 19 Nur.tbcr contributors to Rodcne Memorial 1 Aiitount eontrihfuted Rockne Memorial $250.00 
Hering, Frank E.—South Bend. Ind. 
1899 

Number of members address knoion 12 Number contributors to Rockne Memorial 4 Amount contributed Rockne Manorial S135.00 
Duanc, Dr. Jos. F.—Peoria, III. Klein, Al A.—Evansville. Ind. McCormack, 3L J.—Memphis, Tenn. Sekinger, Frank J.—Lancaster, Pa. 
1900 

Number of members address knoien 19 Number contributors to Rockne Memorial 5 A7»ount contributed Roelnie Memorial $1,175.00 
'Eggeman, Hon John W.—Fort Wayne, Ind. 
•Forbing. John W.—Albany. N. Y. Gallagher, Rev. Hugh^Nazareth, Mich. !^[cDonald. Angus D.—San Francisco. Calif. Strauss. Samuel A.—New York City 
1901 

Nuvdicr of members address known 24 Number contributors to Rockne Memorial 2 Ainmtnt contributed Rockne MeviorioX $35.00 
Murphy. James N.—Brooklyn. N. Y. Smith, Edward C.—Harrisburg, Pa. 
1902 

Number of viembers address knoicn 33 Number cojitributors to Rockne Memorials 7 Amount eoiitributed Rockne Memorial $466.00 
•Burkitt, Jr., George W.—Houston, Texas. C'ooney, Maurice J.—Chicago, III. Gaston, Francisco, J.—Havana. Cuba. Glynn. Ralph L.—St. Paul. Minn. Jones. Vitus G.—South Bend, Ind. Lennon. Hon. Peter B.—Lennon, Mich. Mitchell. C. C—Chicago, III. 
1903 

Number of members address knoicn 32 Number contributors Rockne Memorial 6 Amount eontributcd Rockne Memorial $925.00 
Barry, Francis J.—Los Angeles, Calif. 
Baiunan. E. Walter—Dayton. Ohio. 
Crumley, Harry V.—Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Neeson, John H.—Philadelphia, Pa. 
O'Keefe, Don P.—Detroit. Mich. 
Sweeney, Robert—London, England. 
; 11 959 _ 1907  $25556646  70843 31 
1904 

A'liuiicr 0/ members address known 36 Number contributors to KoiAne Memorial 14 ^liiioiini contributed Rockne Memorial $2,421.00 
Ackemum, Francis X.—Notre Some, Ind. Farabaush. G. A.—South Bend. Ind. Caukler, Francis O.—Detroit. Mich Hanuner, Hon. Ernest E. L.—New York City. Hutzell. O. D.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Jones, Thomas J.—Indianapolis. Ind. Knnaley, Byron V.—Chicago, HI. Murphy. Robert D.—Kock Springs. Wyo. Oliver, n . James—South Bend. Ind. Proctor. Robert E.—Elkhart, Ind. Record. J. R.—Forth Worth, Texas. Stanford, Grattan T.—New York City Stephan, Anton C.—New York City. Winter, Charles A.—East Orange, N. J. 
1905 

Number of viembers address knoim. 17 Number contributors to Koekne Memorial 10 Amount contributed Rockne Memorial $321.00 
Breen. Edward L,—Glens Falls. N. Y. Dusgan. James B.—Chicago, III. 
Grubcr. Earl P.—Frankfort Ind. 
•Kavanaugh.
 Hon. Marcus A.—Chicago, HI. 

•Loughran.
 Francis J.—Joliet, III, O'Connor, Daniel J.—Chicago, m . Reitz. aarence A.—Evansville. Ind. Stevens, Walter A.—Topeka. Kans. Voight, J. Read—St. Petersburg. Fla. Welch, Thomas J.—Kewanee, III. 


1906 

Number of members address kno\on 50 Number contributors to Rockne Memorial 14 Avt*nt contributed Rockne Memorial $12,618.00 
Bosler, Wm. N.—Louisville. Ky. 
Carrico, Wm- E.—Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Cosgrove, Terence B.—Los Angeles, Calif. 
*Cushinir. John F.—Chicago. HI. Dubbs. James A.—Cleveland, Ohio. 
Franchere, John E.—Memphis, Tenn. 
Hutzell. E. F.—Fort Wayne. Ind. 
Madden, Daniel L.—Chicago. DI. 
McDonald, K. V. B.—Fort Wayne. Ind. 
*McInemy, J. W.—South Bend. Ind. 
Morris, Ernest M.—South Bend, Ind. 
Roberts, H. N. Lubbock, Texas. 
Shea, John F.—Holyoke, Mass. 
Van Rie, Dr. L. P.—Jlishawaka, Ind. 
1907 

Number of vietnbers address known 35 Number contributors to Rockne Memorial 18 Amount contributed Rockne Memorial 453.35 
Connolly, Thomas J.—Rensselaer. N. Y. 
Cotiuillard. Alexis—South Bend. Ind. 
Craiff, Leo F.—Sioux Falls. S. D. 
•JIcGannon. T. Paul—New York City. Moran, J. Bell—Detroit. Mich. 0*Connell. Ambrose—^Washington. D. C. Scharf.—Norbert M.—^Toledo. Ohio. Wadden, John W.—Qeveland, Ohio. 
1908 

Number of members address knoton 38 Number contributors to Rockne Memorial 11 .4nioufit contributed Rockne Memorial $199.0& 
Bracken. Robert L.—Dixon. III. 
Caparo, Angel J.—Notre Dame. Ind. 
* Deceased. 
Cull, Frank X—Qeveland. Ohio. 
Daschbacfa, Ray J.—Van Nuys. P. O. Calif. 
Flaherty, James J.—Chicaico, 111. 
Fransioli, Jr., Walter J.—Memphis, Tcnn. 
Gaffncy, Edwin J.—West Orance, N. J. 
•Hoff, Albert P.—Milwaukee, Wis. Kath, Rev, J. A.—Floral Park, N. Y. Roach, John W^—Muscatine. Iowa. St. George Maximilian J.—Chicago, III. 
1909 

Number of members address Icnown 37 Number contributors to Rockiie Memorial IB Amount contributed Roeknc Memorial $1,508.00 
GcnUivrc, Carl L.—Fort Wayne, Ind. 
•Cleary,
 E. P.—Notre Dame. Ind. Edwards, Howard—Notre Dame, Ind, Fuller, Jjconard M.—^Muscatine, Iowa. Gushurst, Albert F.—Lead, S. D. Hannon, L. J.—Port Arthur, Texas. Harrington, T. V.—Soiowon, Kans, Hines. James F.—Kewanna, Ind. Kanalcy, John B.—Chicaso, III. 

•Kelley,
 GeorKc B. G.—Syracuse. N. Y. Martin. Paul R.—Washington, D. C. McCarty, Dr. Hiram G.—Cleveland, Ohio, Walker, Frank C—New York City. Weeks, Edward J.—Detroit, Mich. 


1910 

Number of members address IzTioiim ^ 32 Number contributors to Roeknc Mctttorial 13 Amount contributed Roeknc McTnorial S565.00 
Andrus, Lucius B.—Indianapolis, Ind. Crepeau, ElUm—South Bend. Ind. Decry, James E.—Indianapolis. Ind. Descn. Gerard T.—^Philadelphia. Pa. Dolan. Samuel M.—Corvallis. Ore. FinncKan, W. E.—North Chicaso. 111­*FinniBan, Rt, Rev. George J.—^Helena. Mont. Gorman, Patrick A.—Waco. Texas. GrifBth. John S.—Anderson, Ind. Holland. George W.—Louisville. Ky. McElroy, Leo C—East Norvvalk, Conn. Moriarty, Rev. M. L.—Qeveland, Ohio. Nagelson, Lou—Fort Wayne, Ind. 
1911 

Number of members address known 73 Number contributors to Roeknc Memorial 16 Amount contributed Roeknc Memorial 5601.00 
Collins. Joseph—Detroit, Mich. deLandero. Pedro A.—South Bend, Ind. 
Funk. Elmo A.—Anderson, Ind. 
Lensing, Henry B.—Evansville, Ind. JlcCaffrcy. Joseph J.—South Bend, Ind. Murphy, Joseph B.—Dayton, Ohio. 
Quinn, E. J.—Rockville Centre, N. Y. Quish. F. E.—Detroit, Mich. Reuss, Charles—Fort W^ayne, Ind. Ryan. William R.—Qeveland, Ohio. Skahan. S. Paul—Minneapolis, Minn. Sobolewski, Rev. W.—Spearfish. S. D. Steers, Fred L.—Chicago. HI. Tulty, John C.—LaGrange, III. Wilson. John M.—New York City. Wirthman, Frederick—^Kansas City, Mo, 
1912 Number of tncmbcrs address knoion 50 Number contributors to Roeknc Memorial 16 Amount contributed Roelinc Memorial Sl.069.23 Connelly, Eugene E.—Forest Park, HI. 
Costcllo, Dr. Joseph P.—St. Louis. Mo. Degen, Henry P.—Philadelphia, Pa. Dockweiler, Henrj-—Los Angeles. Calif. Duncan, Walter—LaSallo. HI. Kaufer, J. W.—South Bend. Ind. 
Lee. Jay L,—Detroit. Mich. McDonald. Donnelly P.—Fort Wayne, Ind. McGiynn. J. B.—East St. Louis. III. Murphy, John P.—Cleveland. Ohio. 
Oshe, Hon. Marcellus M.—Chicago, III. 
Philip, Philip J.—Detroit. Mich. 
Phillips, Wendell T.—Boston, Mass. Quigley. Thomas—Cicero. HI. 
Rush, Paul—Memphis, Tenn. Walsh, Arthur—West Orange, N. J. 
1913 

Number of vtcmbcrs address knoion 68 Number contributors to RoeJcnc Memorial .. 24 Amount contributed Roclzne Memorixd SI .762.00 
Benitz. William L.—South Bond, Ind. Brcslin, Dr. Frank J.—Los Angeles. Calif. 
Broussard, C. E.—Beaumont, Texas. 
Burns. Dr. John T.—Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Byrne, Paul R.—Notre Dame. Ind. Devitt, James R.—Qcveland, Ohio. 
Fitzpatrick, Keene P.—San Francisco, Calif. Granfield. Hon. Wm. J.—Springfield, Mass. 
Huher, Andrew J.—Plainficld. N. J. 
Kaczmarek, Regidius 31.—Notre Dame, Ind. 
Kecnan. James F.—Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Kirk. Harry J.—Washington, D. C. 
O'Brien, James F.—Detroit. Mich. 
O'Connell, Hon. John F»—Chicago, PI. 
O'DonncII, James A.—Philadelphia, Pa. 
O'Hanlon. J. R.—Qayton. Mo. 
O'Neil. Thomas F.—Miami, Fla. 
O'Neill, Eugene M.—St. Paul. Minn. Kogers, Edw. J.—^Milwaukee, Wis. 
Ryan. Vincent D.—Flint, Mich. 
Sage, Fred L.—Birmingham, Mich. 
•Shea, Thomas—Tulsa. Okla. Tipton, Wm. R.—Watrous. N. Mcx. Whitty, E. J.—Chicago. HI. 
I9I4 Number of members address Icnown 73 Num.bcr contributors to Roeknc Memorial 24 Amount contrributed RoeJmc Memorial $922.00 
Braun. R. T.—Port Arthur. Texas. 
Cartior, George R.—Tacoma. Wash. 
Chester, W. H.—Elkhart, Ind. 
Cusack, William—Los Angeles, Calif. Dorais, Charles E.—Detroit, Mich. Downey. T. E.—Butte. Mont. 
Eick, l.ouis F.—Martin's Ferry, Ohio. Feyder, Theodore N.—Sioux, Falls, S. D. Flanagan, Simeon T.—New York City. Gushurst, Fred W.—Denver. Colo. Haggerty, Richard—Chicago, HI. Hanlon. George T.—Detroit, Mich. Hayes. Francis H.—El Cajon, Calif. Hellrung, Herb—Alton. HI, Hogan, Frank—Fort Wayne. Ind. Kane. Eugene A.—Rocky River, Ohio. Kcenan. Francis J.—Dixon, HI. Mulchay, Francis P.—St. Thomas. Virgin 
Islands. O'Connell. Rev. F. M.—Qoudcrsport. Pa. O'Connor. Thomas H.—Rochester. N. Y. Redden, William J.—Milwaukee. Wis. Ryan, Arthur W.—Toledo. Ohio. Stephenson, Joseph M.—South Bend, Ind. AVahor, Martin E.—Houston, Texas. 
1915 Number of members address Icnotan 71 Number coritributors to Roeknc Memorial 27 Amount contributed Roeknc Memorial $1,717.00 Berger, Alvin H.—Fort Wayne. Ind. Burger, Alfred A.—Shaker Heights, Ohio. Byrne, Jr.. Joseph M.—Newark, N. J. CuUigan, Dr. John M.—St. Paul, Minn. Daly, E. J.—Ketchikan, Alaska. Duncan. Slark L.—Chicago, III. Eichcniaub. Ray—Columbus. Ohio. 
Farrcll, Joseph R.—Cimp Hill, Pa. Grady, Wm. A.—Dallas. Texas. Gushurst. Dr. E.—Minneapolis. Minn. Hcam, Thomas H.—Los Angeles, Calif. Hudson. Calvin—Memphis, Tenn. Kelly. Raymond—Detroit. Mich. 
Lajoic. Ernest P.—Detroit, Mich. Lcnihan. Sr.. Emmett G.—Seattle, Wash. Lockard. Frank R.—Toledo. Ohio. Malonc. Louis P.—Detroit. Mich. Mooney. Jr.. William J.—Indianapolis, Ind. Noll. Most Rev. John F.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Pearson. P. Dudley—Milwaukee. Wis. Riley. Thomas S.—Wheeling, W. Va. Roach, Robert L.—Muscatine. Iowa. Sanford. James E.—Chicago, 111. Scott, Joseph—Los Angeles, Calif. Vogt. Richard R.—South Bend. In L Welch, Leo F.—Indiapanolis, Ind. Welch, John A.—Indianapolis. Ind. 
1916 

Number of metnbers address knoton 79 Number contributors to Roeknc Memorial 30 Amount contributed Roclmc Memorial $1,205.00 
Beck-man. Edward—New York City. Bergman. Arthur J.—^\Vashington, D. C. Black. Raymond A.—^McKecsport. Pa. Burke. Hon. H. P.—Rochester. N. Y. Carroll, Hugh E.—East Chicago, Ind. Doyle, Ned—New York City. Eckel, Jacob E.—Solvay, N. Y. Elward. "Mai" A. H.—Lafayette, Ind. Fay, William—Memphis, Tenn. Fitzgerald. Freeman C.—Milwaukee, Wis. Gorman. Russ—Detroit. Mich. Hayes, Thomas A.—Detroit, Mich. Keifer, Lmiis—Terro Haute, Ind. 
Lathrop, Ralph J.—New York City. 
*McBrido, Eugene R,—Pittsburgh, Pa. McCarthy, Dr. J. A.—AVhiUng, Ind. McDonald, George D.—Los Angeles, Calif, Meyer, Joseph A.—Cincinnati, Ohio. Miller. Grover F.—Racine, Wis. Miller, Joseph H.—Rochester. N. Y, Moriarty, Herb. B.—Memphis, Tenn. 
Oaas, T. H.—Butte. ^lont. 
Odem, J- F.—Sinton, Texas. Reagan, Charles M.—New York CHty. 
Ryan, Dr. Edward C.—Chicago, HI. 
Scully, Vincent—Evanston. HI. 
Smith, Paul J.—Washington. D. C. 
Tumor. W. W.—South Bend. Ind. 
Voedisch. Georjic H.—South Bond. Ind. Welsh. Frank S.—Fall River, Mass. 
1917 

Number of members address knoton 116 Numbers contributors to Roeknc Memorial 38 ATitount contributed Roeknc Memorial $3,114.32 
Bachman, Charles W.—^East Lansing, Mich. Baujan, Harry C.—Dayton. Ohio. Beh, Carleton D.—Dcs Moines. Iowa. Boland. James I.—South Bend; Ind. Bosshard. Royal H.—San Francisco, Calif. 
•Chartrand, Most Rev-. Joseph—Indianapolis, 
Ind. Qeary, Harold J.—Shorcwood. Wis. Cofall. Stanley B.—Qeveland Heights, Ohio. Cooney, John M.—South Bend, Ind. Dorais, Joseph E.—Miami. Fla. Dorwin, J. Oscar—New York City. FJynn, Joseph F.—Chicago, HI. Fogarty, J. Paul—Chicago. HI. Fox. Kenneth B.—Rockville Centre, N. Y. Hilgartner, Jr., Daniel E.—Chicago, HI. Holland, Thomas V.—Kansas City, Mo. Kenedy, Dr. Thomas R.—St. Louis. Mo. Kennedy. William E. Chicago. HI. Kranz. Albert J.—Toledo, Ohio. 
•Lydon. Arthur W.—Geneva. N. Y. Mahaffey. Fred L.—Indianapolis. Ind. Martin, Msgr. Charles A.—Cleveland, Ohio. McNichols, Austin A.—Chicago, III. Miller, Bernard H.—Racine. Wis. Miller, Jerome J.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Miller, John M.—Fall River, Mass. Murphy, Bernard R.—Brookline, Mass. Nigro. Dr. D. M.—Kansas City. Mo. O'Donncir, Dr. F. J.—Alpena, Mich. O'Donnell, Dr. L. D.—Pittsburgh. Pa. O'Neill, Hugh M.—Qoveland. Ohio. Parker, Howard R.—San Francisco, Calif. Quintan, Daniel J.—Lowell, Mass. Sackley, Rigney J.—Chicago, 111. Schonlau, E. C—Syracuse. N. Y. Vogel. Leo J.—Pittsburgh, Pa. Voll. Bernard J.—South Bond. Ind. Wall, William F.—Whitmore Lake, Mich. 
1918 

Number of members address known 67 Number contributors to Roeknc Mctjwrial 20 Amount contributed Roeknc Memorial $703.85 
Bailey, Edward R.—Qcveland, Ohio. BerghofT. Ed. H.—Fort Wayne. Ind. Call. Charles W.—New York City. 
Corcoran, Dr. \Vm. J.—Chicago, 111. 
Crowley. Charles A.—Boston. Mass. Gerst, Cornelius A.—Louisville. Ky. GrifEn, Charles J.—Louisville, Ky. Hyland. Richard—Long Island City. Kelly, Thomas C—Milwaukee, Wis. Kozlowski. Edw.—Detroit. Mich. Lemmer, John A.—E^canaba. Mich. McAuliffe, Robert H.—South Bend, Ind. ^fcDonaId. Wm. B.—San Francisco. Calif. McEndarfer. E. R.—South Bend. Ind. McGrath. Edward—Kansas City, Mo. Moore. Thomas—Tulsa, Okla. 
Reynolds. Edward J.—Maiden, Mass. Saino, Felix H.—Memphis, Tenn. Slackford. Frederick J.—Cleveland, Ohio. Wagner. Louis—New York City. 
1919 

Number of members address Jcnoicn 48 Number contributors to Roeknc Memorial 18 /l7itouTtt contributed Roeknc Memorial S492.0D 
Baglin. C. N.—Rochester. N. Y. Beczkiewicz, P. A.—South Bend. Ind. 
Costello, .lames E.—Louisville. Ky. DeSmit, Louis A.—Chicago; HI. Fenlon, Paul—Notre Dame. Ind. Figge, V. O.—Davenport. Iowa. Hallor. George—Detroit, Mich. Halloran, Aaron J.—Springfield, Ohio. Hickoy, J. L.—Detroit, Mich. Lentz. Charles E.—South Bend, Ind. Mackin, Rev. Thomas J.—Columbia. S. C. Nolan. Thomas J.—Louisville, Ky. Reinhart. Jr.. George B.—Kansas City. Mo. Rice, Rudolph—Washington. D. C. Rooney. Dr. E. F.—New York City. Schellinger, F. Armand—^Mishawaka. Ind. Suttner, Joseph M.—Los Angeles, Calif. Trixler. P. Gorman—Huntington. Ind. 
1920 

Number of members address Jcnoion 85 Number contributors to Roeknc Memorial —21 Amount contributed Roeknc Memorial $1,595.00 
Balfe. John T.—New York City. Beacom. Jr., Thomas H.—Chicago. HI. Brecn. Hubert F.—Los Angeles, Calif. Brcnnan, James H.—Chicago, III. Call, Leonard M.—New York City. Dixon. Sherwood—Dixon, HI. Donnelly, Edwin—^Toledo, Ohio. Doran. M. Edward—South Bond. Ind. Fox, Jr., William F.—Indiampolis. Ind. Henohan, Jr., Paul V.—Chicago. HI. Madden. John D.—^Wauwatosa, Wis. Madigan, Edward P.—St. Mary's College. Calif. Mcchan, Ed. J.—South Bend. Ind. Nestcr. Harry P.—Columbus. Ohio. O'SuUivan, Qifford—Port Huron. Mich. Patterson, Dillon J.—South Bend. Ind. Sidcnfaden. Oscar L.—Los Angeles. Calif. Sullivan. C^rge L.—Packanack Lake. N. J. Valker, Leo J.—New York City. Verbiest, C. M.—Grossc Pointe Park. Mich. Vurpillat Dr. F. J.—South Bend. Ind. Ward. Leo B.—Los Angeles, Calif. Wenzel. W. L.—Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Whcder, James H.—Milwaukee. Wis, 
1921 

Number of membcra address knovm 108 Number contributors to Roekne Memorial 31 Amount contributed Roekne Memorial $1,704.15 
Bahan, Leonard F.-—Shreveport, La. Barry. Norman C—Chicago. III. Berser, Paul F.—Los Angeles. Calif. Qeaiy. Gerald J.—Escanaba, Mich. Connelly, Francis W.—New York City. C'raugh. Gerald J.—New York City. Dettlinff, John A.—Akron, Ohio. Dollard, Thomas V,—Troy, N. Y. Duffy. Dan W.—Oeveland, Ohio. Easley. Donald J.—South Bend. Ind. Foley, Harold S.—Vancoai'er, B. C. Hayes. David V.—Manchester. Conn. Heimann, Dr. Joseph V.—Lakewood, Ohio. Hoar, Cerald J.—Notre Dame, Ind. Kasper, Thomas C.—Aberdeen. S. D. Kelley, Leo D.—Syracuse. N. Y. Kenney. J. E.—Pelham Manor. N. Y. Kline, Clarence J.—South Bend. Ind. McGann. J. Albert—South Bend, Ind. Mead. Raymond J.—Rochester, N. Y. Meredith. Geroge E.—Pennington, N. J. Mooney, Charles P. J.—^3VIemphis. Tenn. Schubmehl. Raymond J.—South Bend. Ind. Sherry. William J.—Tulsa, Okla. Slaggert, A. N.—Detroit, Slich. Starrett, E. Morris—Port Townsend, Wash. Thompson. Joseph H.—Cleveland, Ohio. Ward. Arch B.—Chicago, III. White. William M.—Springfield. 111. Woodford. Leon E.—Elkhart, Ind. Zickgraf, Henry P.—San Diego. Calif. 
1922 

Xumbcr of member address knoion 154 Number contributors to Roekne Mcttiorial 46 Amount contributed Roekne Menioiial $2,105.50 
Adams, Walter M.—I.ou!svillc. Ky, Anderson. Hcartley W.—Grosse Toinle, Mich. ArEueso, Lcruis—New York City. Arndt, Karl M.—Lincoln, Neb. Ashe, Gerald A.—Rochester. N. Y. Bailey. E. Bradley—Rydal, Pa. Baumer. Frederick H.—Bmdonton, Fla. Bloemer Jr.. Prank B.—Louisville. Ky. Champion. Pierre—Oeveland. Ohio. Dooley, James R. North Andover, Mass. Foren, James—Detroit, Slich. HiEnins, John T.—Detroit. Mich. Huether, John J.—Schenectady, N. Y. HuRhes. Cyril—Chicaco, 111. HuRhes, Harold P.—Chicaco. III. Hull, Daniel—Notre Dame. Ind. Kelley. Dr. John F.—Utica, K. Y. Kennedy, Eucene M.—Los AnKelos, Calif. Kinder, George P.—Fort Wayne. Ind. Lambeau, E. L,—Green Bay, Wis. Mahoney. John—Enid, Okla. 
•Majioney. Leo A.—South Bend, Ind. Manion, Clarence E.—^Notre Dame. Ind. McDermott. Paul L—St. Paul, Minn. Middleschulte. Dr. Wilhelm—Chicago. III. Miles. J. F.—South Bend. Ind. Mullin. Loo F.—Washington. D. C Murphy. James E.—Bridgeport. Conn. Nagle. Paul F.—New York City. Nyhan. Kenn F.—Toledo. Ohio. O'Brien. J. J.—Chicago, HI. Ott Frank D.—Albany; N. Y. pater, B. Vincent—Hamilton, Ohio. Pfeiffer, Edw. H.—Lcmisville, Ky. Pfohl. Paul J.—Chicago, HI. Powers, William H.—Cambridge Springs, Pa. Reichert. R. R.—Minneapolis. Minn. Rose. Thomas A.—Anderson. Ind. Shaw, L. T.—Burlingame. Calif. Shea, Robert D.—New York City. Shilts, Walter L.—South Bend. Ind. Walsh. Earl F.—New York City. Weber, A. Harold—South Bend, Ind. Wenzkc, Herman H.—Celina, Ohio. Wynne, Chester A.—Chicago, HI. YounjT, Daniel H.—PleasantviJle. N. Y. 
1923 

Number of vicnibcrs address known 191 Number contributors to RocJ:nc Memorial 4G Amount contributed Roekne Memorial $l,66r>..'i0 
Brennan. M. H.—Oeveland, Ohio. 
Brown. James R.—New Rochelle, N. Y. Brown, V. J.—Sj-racuse; N. Y. Burke, G. Cull en—Newport, N, Y. 
Byrne, John G.—^Williamsville. N. Y. 
Callahan. Nelson J.—Oeveland. Ohio. • Carberry, Glen M.—^New York City. 
Cosasanto. Joseph J—.South Bend, Ind. 
Chapla, John P.—Cleveland, Ohio. 
Oiesnow, Louis—Washington, D. C, Cochrane, John C.—Toledo. Ohio. 
Cook, Laurens—Chicago, HI. 
Cullen, Harry J.—New York City. Dempf, Henry R.—LouIsviJIe. Ky. Dever, George A.—Chicago. 111. Doll. Clifford W.—Louisville, Ky. Drennan. William J.—Chicago, HI. Dugan. John—Marion, Ohio. Dwyer, Wilfred T.—London. Ohio, Gleason, John W.—Oeveland, Ohio. 
Glotzbach, L. C—New Ulm, Minn. Gorman, Anthony J.—^Alameda. Calif. Gould, Edward W.—Chicago. III. Holmberg. Bruce J,—River Forest, HI. Kelly, Edward D.—Emmetsfaurg. Iowa. Kiley, Roger J.—Chicago, HI. Kolp. Louis—Canton, Ohio. Kreimer, Edward—South Bend, Ind. Lauerman, H. J.—Menominee, Midi. Lee, Thomas J.—^Minneapolis, IMinn, Logan, F. Leslie—Fort Wa>Tie. Ind. McDermitt, Francis F.—Caldwell. N. J. Meehan. John J.—Schenectady, N. Y; Nolan, Daniel P.—Latrobe. Pa. Norton, John C.—Chicago, III. Oliver, Jr., Joseph—South Bend, Ind. Payton. E. J.—South Bend. Ind. Pfeiffer, Cornelius J.—Louisville. Ky. Powers, Jeffrey V.—Brooklyn. N. Y. Quinn, Robert G.—Bound Brook. N. J. Rohrbach, J. M.—Crown Point, Ind. Wack, George .T.—South Bend. Ind. Ward. Cliff B.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Weis. Dr. Matthew W.—St Louis. Mo. Wilcox, J- P.—Minneapolis, Minn. Woywood. O. F. M., Rev. Stanislaus—Washing­
ton. D. C. 
1924 

Number of members address known 239 Number contributors to Roekne Memorial 54 Amount contributed Roekne Mey/iorial $2,894.50 
Arnold, Jerome C.—St. Louis, Mo. Baier. Joseph J.—Montclair, N. J. Baldus. George H.—Fort Wayne. Ind. Barrett, J. Raymond—Chicago. HI. Boehm, Alfred M.—Chicago. HI. Brady, Raymond R.—Salt Lake City. Utah Castellini. Albert D.—Cincinnati. Ohio. Chouffet. Charles A.—Oak Park, HI. Corbett, James W.—Marion, Ind. Desmond. Joseph L.—Somerville, Mass. Dore, John J.—Shaker Hciffhts, Ohio. Egan. Francis X.—Chicago. HI. «Erskine, Albert R.—South Bend. Ind. Fannan. J. Hcnr>*—Rockford, HI. Feltes, Norman—Glencoe. HI. Foley. Lester W.—Jacksonville, Fla. Fox. W. E.—Rockville Centre. N. Y. Gallagan. Wm. F.—Bloomfield. N. J. Gallagher. Rev. D-—Bloominffdalo, N. Y. Geniesse, L. A.—Green Bay, Wis. Gordon. Thomas E.—Chicago, HI. Heringer. Leo—Chicago, HI. Hopran. Michael T.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Hoyer. Ray—South Bend. Ind. Hubert, Urban—Detroit, Mich. Kreutzer, lifark G.—San Jfateo. Calif. Lang. Raymond J.—^Jlishawoka. Ind. Lindemann, E- G.—Livermore. Ky. Lyons. Gerald—Jackson Heights, N- Y. Mahor. William R.—Chicago, HI. Mayl, Eugene A.—Dayton, Ohio. ^fcGee. Raymond A.—Mt. Vernon. N. Y. JfcGinnis. F. J.—Birmingham. Mich, McGoorty, Jr.. John P.—Chicago. HI. McNamee. Ronald J.—Ballston Spa. N. Y. Meehan. James R.—South Bend. Ind. Miller. E. P.—Evansville. Ind. Miller. Richard C. New York City. Molz. Charles O.—Detroit. Mich. Moran, Walter B.—Tulsa. Okla. Murphy. Jr.. Timothy J.—Wethersfield, Conn. Noonan. Clifford—Chicago. HI. z Petrick. John R.—^Montevideo, Minn. Reagan, Robert P.—Madison, Wis. Reardon. Dr. John B.—New York City. Rionlan. Robert B.—Notre Dame. Ind. Rothert. Matthew H.—Camden, Ark. Ryan. Joseph C.—Chicago. HI. Scoggins. R. Conroy—Houston. Texas. Sheehan. Thomas J.—Columbus. Ohio. Sullivan. Edward S.—Fort Wayne. Ind. Swift. .Tames P.—Dallas. Texas. , Van Tilbury. Leo—Mishawaka. Ind. Welsh. W. Harold—Brooklyn. N. Y. 
1925 

Number of mmibcrs addrrss knoicn 299 NumbtT contributors to RoekTu; Memorial 83 Amount contributed Roekne Memorial S2.891.50 
Adrian. Michael J.—Pleasantville. N. Y. Armstrong. James E.—South Bend. Ind. Ashe, E. C—West Los Angeles. Calif. Barry, Thomas J.—South Bond. Ind. Bartley, John A.—New York City. Boettingor, Leo J.—Hamilton. Ohio. Boland. Maurice—Fort Wayi\c, Ind. Brule. M. A.—White Plains, N. Y. Burke, Joseph P.—^Rockaway Beach. L. L, 
N. Y. Byrne. John A.—^New York City. Centli\-rc. Herman—Fort Wayne, Ind. Cerney. Wm. J.—South Bend. Ind. Clancy, Norbert—Evonsville, Ind. Collins. Charles C—Oak Park. HI. Corboy, Stephen C—Chicago, HI. Corcoran. John T.—Bridgeport. Conn. Crowley. James H.—New York City. Cunningham, Ray—Detroit. Mich. Cyr. Walter J.—Aurora. HI. De la Vergne, Charles E.—New Orleans, IM. 
Didmann. Jr., Wm. B.—San Antonio, Texas Donahue. C. W,—New York City. Dooley, Paul—Detroit, Mich. DriscoU, George F.—Chillicothe, Ohio, Dupay. Peter P.—Baskinff Ridse. N. J. Foley, Dr. Charles J.—Wankesan. JB. Goss, Thomas L—Philadelphia, Pa. Hall Harold F.—Ardmore, Pa, Hallman. Charles J.—Minneapolis, Minn. Hartnett. Dr. WiHiam—Fostoria, Ohio. Hockwalt, Alfred G.^Canton, Ohio. Holland, Gerald—Detroit. Mich. Hood, afyron F.—Rushville. Ini. Hounpert, Walter W.—Indianapolis, lad. Howland, Frank—Memphis, Tenn. Keams, B. T.—Fort Wayne, Ind. • Kesting, Bernaro G.—^Toledo. Ohio. Kilkenny, John F.—Pendleton, Oregon. Kizcr, Noble E.—Lafayette, Ind. Krider, W. A.—Oeveland, Ohio. Lakner, Dr. Edward W.—Cleveland. Ohio. *Lavery, Oscar D.—Bridgeport, Conn. Layden, Elmer F.—South Bend. Ind. Linehan. Joseph—Broklyn, N. Y. Lynch, Rev. John P.—Notre Dame, Ind. Mageveney, Hugh—Memphis. Tenn. Mahon, Jr., John D.—Superior. Wis. Mark, Lester S.—South Bend, Ind. McNamara, Wm. F.—^Austin. Texas. Meager, Joseph A.—San Antonio, Texas. Metzger, Walter J,—Chicago, HI. Miller, Ansclm D.—Roanoke. Va. Miller, Don C.—Oeveland, Ohio. Miller, Edgar E-—Annapolis. Md. Milter, Gerald W.—Oeveland, Ohio. Miller, S. J.—Kokomo, Ind. Murray, T. Frank—Toledo. Ohio. Murray. Wm. H.—Decatur. HI. O'Neil. Daniel J.—New York City. O'Toole. Edward F.—Chicago, III. Pauli, Roy C—Pontiac. Mich. Pirchio, Pasquale—South Bend. Ind. Polhaus, Edmund A.—Dearborn, Mich. Quinn. James—Rahway. N. J. Rahe. Paul Anthony—Tulsa, Okla. Reese. Frank A.—Robinson, HI. Rohrbach, George E-—SouUi Bend, Ind. Romweber. P. C.—Batesville. Ind. Rosenborg. Louis J.^SouUi Bend. fed. Scallan. John W.—Chicago, HI. Sexton, Joseph F.—Indianapolis. Ind. Skelley, Norb F.—Salina, Kans. Skeyhan, George A.—Rockford, HI. Steel. Frank—^Akron. Ohio, Stuhldreher, Harry A.—Madison. Wis. Tillman. Raymond L»—^Toledo, Ohio. Traynor, John P.—New York City. Vergara. George—New York City. Voor, Wm. E.—South Bend, Ind. Walther, Francis—New York City. WTiitman, John H. A.—^Notre Dame, Ind. Wrape, James W.—Memphis. Tenn. 
Wurzer, Henry C.—Davenport, Iowa. 
1926 

Number of members address knoton 351 Number contributors to Roekne Memorial 62 Amount contributed Roekne Memorial $1,884.45 
Adams, John Q.—Montclair, N. J. Arehart, Norbin E.—Louisville, I^ . 
Broussard, Jr.. J. B.*-Beaumont, Texas. Burke, Thomas A.—Brooklyn, N. Y. Byrne, Edward A.—Rye, N. Y-
Cahill, Robert L—New York City. 
Campbell. John F.—Albany, N. Y. 
Cody, Francis E.—Chicago. HI. Cook, Kenneth E.—New York City. 
Coughlin. Dr. B, D.—St. Louis, Mo. Coughlin. Rev. Bernard J.—St, Paul, Minn. Crowe, Clem F.—Cincinnati, Ohio-Crowc, Edward V.—Detroit Mich. Deely. John F.—North Tarrytown, N. Y. Dooley. Wm. R.—^Notre Dame, Ind. Dougherty. Charles M.—Philadelphia, Pa. Driscoll. Paul A.—Ithaca. N. Y. Dunne, Robert V.—San Francisco. Calif. Dwyer. James J.—^Brooklyn. N. Y. 
Engels, Norbert A.—South Bend. Ind. 
Fallon- Edward A.—Brooklyn, N. Y. Farrell, Thomas A.—West Orange, N. J. Fitzgerald, Robert F.—Utica. N. Y. Flaherty, James A.—^Philadelphia. Pa. Gelson, J. Norbert—Brooklyn, N. Y. Griffin, John T.—Chicago, HI. Habert. Elroy E.—Lakewood, Ohio, Haley, J. Arthur—South Bend, Ind. Hall. Austin K.—^Memphis. Tenn. Hartnett, George F.—Wilmette. HI. Johnson, Qaude E.—Essex JuneUon, Vermont. Keefe. L. V.—New York City. 
Leahy, Dr. Thomas E.—Chicago, HI. 
LeBlanc, Jr., Envin J.—Beaumont. Texas. 
LovJer, Lester L.—Rome, N. Y. Maher, J. V.—New York City. McDermott. G. V.—Chicago, HI, XfcGinlcy, Gerald J.—OgaWala. Neb. Moes, Leon J.—Minneapolis, Minn. Mooney, Charles A.—Oeveland, Ohio. *JIurphy. Rev. E, P.—Portland, Oregon. O'Day, George P.—Lakewood. Ohio. Pierce, Arthur L.—Pittsburgh, Pa. Probst, I. Irwin—New Athens, HI. 
•Purccll, John A.—New York City. Quinlan. Joseph W.—South Bend, Ind. Kcddington, Michael B.—Indianapolis, Ind. Reid. William J.—Brooklyn. N. Y. Richter, Elton E.—South Bend. Ind. Ronan, James A.—Chicago. 111. Rj-an.'John J.—Pittsburch, Pa. Ryan, Miles J.—Qeveland, Ohio. Skelley, Paul L.—Indianapolis, Ind. Soisson. Joseph V.—Scottdale, Pa. Suder, Arthur H.—Toledo. Ohio. Sweeney, John J. Chicago, 111. Touhey. Clare Li.--Glen Falls, N. Y. *TrombIey, Donald C.—Mt. Qemens, aiich. Tuohy, John O.—Oak Park, 111. Walsh, Joseph A.—Notre Dame, Ind. Whelan, James F.—Grantwood. N. J. Yawnian, Victor G.—Rochester, N. Y. 
1927 

Number of mcmhcrs address Icnown 490 Number contributors to Roeknc Memorial 101 Amount contributed Roeknc Memorial $2,91'1.90 
Abrott, Bernard J.—San Francisco, Calif. Adrian, Al C—Pleasantville, N. Y. Anderson, Paul J.—East Chicago, Ind. Berkery, E. A.—^New York City-Boeringer, A. B.—^Detroit, Mich. Boland, Joseph M.*—Notre Dame, Ind. Bourkc, Edward F.—South Bend, Ind. Brcslin, Frank H.—Louisville, Ky. Butler, Paul N.—South Bend, Ind. Campbell, Jr., John B.—Louisville, Ky. Carey. Joseph B.—Albany, N. Y. Centlivre, Austin J.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Corbett, Jr., Wm. J.—Chicago, lU. Corbett, W. J.—Chicago, lU. Coyne, William J.—South Bend, Ind. Culhane, Jr.. Thomas H.—Rockford. III. Curtis, Jr., John D.—Bufltalo, N. Y. Davis, Charles—Mishawaka, Ind. Diebold. Jr.. Alfred J.—Pittsburgh, Pa. DocU. Philip C.—Lakewood, Ohio. Dobcrty, George W.—Oak Park, III. Dohogne, T. F.—Memphis. Tcnn. Dooiey. John E".—Salt Lake City, Utah. *Douj;tk, John F.—Fort Smith. Ark. Doyle, Albert L.—Mishawaka. Ind. Ebner, Dr. Milton T.—Cleveland, Ohio. Flynn, Edward J.—Chicago, 111. Froclicb, Gervase A.—Newark, N. J. Gartland. Jr.. Joseph A.—^^Vest Roxbury, Mass, Gavin, Robert L-—Evansville. Ind. Greeley, J. Joseph—Buffalo. N. Y. Green. Jr.. T. F.—Conroe. Texas. Gruning, John E.—Far Rockaway, N. Y. Halpin, John—Chicago, HI. Halpin, Richard L.—Chicago, 111. Hanousck. Richard J.—Minneapolis, Minn. Hcarden, Thomas F.—Racine, Wis. Hebbert. Joseph L.—Hollywood, Calif. Jones, Herbert E.—South Bond, Ind. Jones, James A.—Chicago, 111. Kavanaugh, Wm. D.—Chicago, III. Keiser, Ray—Detroit, Mich. King, Qifton P.—Coleraine. Minn. Knowlcs. Wm. J.—New York City. Koehl. John G.—Fort Waj-ne, Ind. Lavelle, Regis I.—Pittsburgh. Pa. Lenhard. Alden E.—Mishawaka. Ind. LcStrango, Henr>- G.—Larchmont, N. Y. Lynch, John—Geneva. N. Y. Madden, Thomas P.—Notre Dame. Ind. Mahoncy, Thomas C. Detroit. Mich. Maxwell. J. Walter—Cincinnati. Ohio. McAdams. B. V.—Qeveland. Ohio. McCaffcry. Hugh F.—Langlcy Field. Va. 
•McCoIe, Camillc—Brooklj-n, N. Y. McCurrie, Francis T.—Chicago. III. McGee, Thomas F.—Chicago. III. McKcnna, Walter—Detroit. Mich. McKicrnan. Thomas A.—Fort Wayne, Ind. McLaughlin. Edward J.—Chicago. III. Stiller, A. E.—Princeton. Ind. Moran, Francis E.—South Bond. Ind. Moran, Rev. James J.—Lowellvillc, Ohio. Morsches, John F.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Murphy. Wm. J.—Wilmette, III. Nash. Thomas E.—Chicago. III. Niblick. Harold W.—Fort Wayne. Ind. O'Boyle, Harry W.—Des Moines. Iowa. O'Connor, Thomas E.—Bellefontaine. Ohio. O'Keefe, William A.—Mobcrly, Mo. Peltier, Stan J.—Mt. Qcmens. Mich. Pctronc. Dr. John C.—SuScm. N. Y. Pettit. Iilauricc L.—South Bend. Ind. Picou. Guy A.—Los Angeles. Calif. Powers. Robert F.—^Urbana. Ohio. Prince. J.—Detroit. Mich. Ouinn. James T.—Rahway, N. J. Reddington, Charles—Anderson. Ind. Hcgan. Jr.. C. F-—New York City. Reidy. J. J.—Rocky River. Ohio, Rigali, Joseph L.—Chicago. 111. Ronay. Stephen—South Bend. Ind. Rudd>'. Clarence J.—Aurora. III. Ryan. Edwin L.—Chicago. 111. Ryan, John Clinton—Milton. Vt. Ryan. Paul W.—|.Iilton, Vt. Schilder, Gerald P.—Chillicothc. Ohio. Sievcrs, Alex—Elkhart. Ind. Slater, Frank X.—Los Angeles, Calf. 
Smithberger, Andrew—South Bend, Ind. Snyder, Raymond M.—South Bend, Ind. Sweeny, Joseph L.^aeveiand, Ohio. Thcissen. Victor W.—Minneapolis. Minn. Tynan, Harold A.^San Antonio. Texas. Vallely, James L.—Kimbcrly. Nevada. Wallace, David Van—Mt. Qeraens. Mich. Wallace, John J.—Calumet City, III. Walsh, Adam—Brunswick, Maine. Walsh. Bailey—iVIcmphis, Tenn. Wathen, Robert N.—Louisville. Ky. Wenning, Nicholas A.—^Nashville, Tcnn. 
1928 

Number of members address known 424 Number contributors to Roeknc Memorial 104 Amount contributed Roeknc Memorial $4,312.20 
Aggeler. Mervyn A.—Los Angeles, Calif. Amiot. Neil H.—^^Vj-andotte, Mich. Antus, John J.—^Ncw York City. Armin, Wm, F.—Aurora, HI. Baum, Henry P.—Los Angeles, Calif. Benda, Joseph—Soutii Bend, Ind. Bojie, Andrew J.—Notre Dame. Ind. Bradley, Dr. Dani<^ J,—Amity%ille, N. Y. Brennan, Edwin F.—New York City. Brust. Paul—^Wauwatosa. Wis. Bucholz, Donald—New York City. Buckley. Louis F.—Washington. D. C. Byrne. Thomas F.^CIeveland, Ohio. Canavan. Harold V.^Albany. N. Y. Canny, J. P.—Lakewood. Ohio. Carlin. John E.—Salina. Kans. Carney, Matthew J.—New York City. Cavanaugh, John X*.—PhiladGlphia, P:u Connors. Francis II.—Arcade, N. Y. Coury. George—Chicago. HI. Creadon. Francis V.—Riverside. III. Cronin, Wm. F.—New York City. Crowley, John M.—^Cincinnati. Ohio. Culliney. L. J.—New York Cit>-. Dahman. R. J.—Qeveland, Ohio. Daly, James H.—Flushing. N. Y. David, Jr., F. E.—Pincvillc, La. Debott, Joseph T.—Geneva, N. Y. DeCIercq, Jerome C—Chicago, 111, Do^\'ney, William H.—^Niles, Mich. Doyle, John J.—^Minneapolis. Minn. Ducey, Vincent P.^Chicago. III. Dunne, J. F.—San Jose. Calif. Duquette, Francis L—^Tuckahoe, N. Y. Evans, R. F.—Vicksburg. Miss. Ewers, John V.—^iCeokuk. Iowa, Ewing, Wayne H.—^Weston. Ohio. Farley, Byron J.—^Albany, N, Y. Fischer, Victor W.—New York City. Flanagan, Jr., Christie—^Port Arthur, Tc^as. Gallagher. Peter J.—Freeland. Pa. Gilbert, Jacob H.—South Bend, Ind. Grams, A. M.—LaCrosse, Wis. Hagerty. Edward J.—Toledo. Ohio. Hamilton. Robert A,—New York City. Haslej*. Henry—Fort Wayne. Ind. Heffeman, Marion J.—Louisville. Ky. Hegarty. Dr. Francis A.—Pittsburgh. Pa. Hilger. Joseph P.—Columbus. Ind. Horan. Joseph J.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Hugh. Edward A.—Cblurabus, Ohio. Igoe. John J.—St. Louis, Mo. Jenkins. A. E.—Buffalo. N. Y'. Kane. Andrew C.—Boston. Mass. Kelley. William W.—New York City. Kelly, Edw. J.—Chicago. III. Kelly. James W.—Los Angeles. Calif. Kissling. Joseph P.—Elmhurst. N, Y. Konop. William H.—Indianapolis, Ind. Krembs, David—Stevens Pointe. Wis, Lavelle, John S.—New York City. Lawler, William V.—Pittsburgh. Pa. Leroux, Clayton G.—Cleveland. Ohio. Loefflcr, Bernard T.—Indianapolis. Ind. Madden. Joseph J.—Auburn, Ind. Massman, Henry J.—Kansas City. Mo. McGormack. Edward J.—Chicago, III. Mclntyre, Leo R.—Bethlehem, Pa. McMahon. John F.—Pittsburgh. Pa. Merloni, Pete—Port Chester, N. Y. 
•Mitchell. Wm. T.—Rockville Centre, N. Y. Montedonico. Joseph—^Washington. D. C. Morrissoy, Joseph S.—Cincinnati. Ohio. Murch. Orvillc—Alpena. Mich. O'Dowd. Joseph M.—Fort Worth. Texas. Pater. Jr.. Qem—Hamilton, Ohio. Persyn, Henry A.^—^Newark. N. J. Pfortner, Frederick W.—Indianapolis, Ind. Pinkley, J. Carroll—St. Louis, Mo, Quinn. Edward R,—South Bend. Ind. Rich, Ronald E.—^Mishawaka. Ind, Rini. Martin A,—Qeveland. Ohio. Robert. Paul A.—Cleveland Heights. Ohio. Rothballer, Dr. U. J.—South Bond. Ind. Ruckdhaus. Thomas—Indianapolis, Ind, Ryan, Martin A.—Buffalo, N. Y, Scheuer. George G.—Detroit, Slich. Schnurr. Jr., Alfred—Sandusky, Ohio, Schidtz, H.—Port Arthur. Texas. Ser\atius. Robert J.—Utica. N. Y. Sheedy. John C.—Pittsburgh. Pa-Smith, David H.—Chicago. HI. Sporl. Jr.. C. A.—New Orleans. La. Stace. Vincent A.—Detroit, Mich. Stadler, L. R.—Erie. Pa. 
Taylor, Alfred A.—Brooklyn, N. Y. Tennes, Monty J.—Chicago, HI, Toussaint, Walter J.—Charleston, W, Va. Voedisch, John T.—South Bend, Ind. Wagner. George A.—Sandusky, Ohio. Wathen. B. J.—Louisville, Ky. Winberry. John J.—Rutherford, N. J. Wingerter. John J.—East Orange, N. J. Winter. Robert R.—Chicago. III. 
1929 

Number of members address knoion 433 Number contributors to Roeknc Memorial 80 Amount contributed Roeknc Memorial $2,018.55 
Bartholomew, Paul C.—South Bend. Ind. Berghoff. Norbert G.—Fort Wayne. Ind. Bestcn. Louis H.—Louisville. Ky. Blackall, Qair J.—^NorUi Baltimore, Ohio. Boykin, Robert L.—^^Vashington, D. C. Brown, John R.—Racine. Wis. Brown. Wm. E.—^Wauwatosa, Wis. Brumleve, C C.—^Dayton, Ohio. Bust, Robert A.—Potosi, Mo. Campbell. David L.—South Bend. Ind. Carney, Vincent F,—Rochclle, III. Colrick, John T.—South Orange. N. J. Conley, Martin J.—Chicago, III. Curry, James M.—Great Neck. N. Y". DeBacne. Walter—Detroit, Mich. Doan, Frank E.—Cleveland, Ohio. Donnelly, Walter A.—^New York City. Donohoe. Edward F.—Qncinnati, Ohio. Durbin. Stephen A.—East Orange. N. J. Farr. John P.—New Y'ork City. Feldman. Maurice A.—Louisville. Ky. Galdabini. A. P.—^Milwaukee. Wis. Garrity. Edmund C.—Chicago. III. Greer. Walter—New York City. Haraeline. T.—Mishawaka. Ind. Harrington. J. Ross—Richmond. Ind. Hartnett, Jr., Joseph P.—Pelham. N. V. Hinkel. John V.—New York City. Hoff, Rev. Norbert C.—Notre Dame, Ind. Horan. Stephen J.—Bridgeport. Conn. Hughes. Howard L.—Flint, Mich. Jachym, Joseph G.—Westfield. Mass. Keams, Jr., John T.—Streator. III. Konop, Kenneth .T.—Indianapolis. Ind. Kundert, Louis H.—Dclphos. Ohio. Lauber. Joseph W.—South Bend. Ind. Lydon. James P.—Chicago. III. Lynn. IJCO J.—Evansville. Ind. Lyons, Martin J.—^New York City. Markey, Thomas—Akron. Ohio. Martcrsteck. Kar| E.—Lakewood. Ohio. McAnaney, F. A.—^Yonkers. N. Y. McCarthy. J. H. B.—South Bend. Ind. McDonncll. Dr. G. J.—Freehold, N. J. McLeod. N. .7.—Qeveland. Ohio. McManigal. Hugh .T.—Coldwator. Ohio. McNalley, Daniel .1.—^Milwaukee. Wis. McNamara. .Joseph P.—Indianapolis. Ind. Medland. Edwin J.—Logansport. Ind. Miliff. Eugene A.—Rocky River. Ohio. Miller. Fred C—Milwaukee. Wis. Mitiguy. John F.—Burlington. Vt. Murphy. Hon. T. C—Detroit, Mich. Nash. John R.—Chicago. III. Neff. W. L.—Mandan. S. D. Niezer, Louis F.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Nowery. James R.—Shreveport. La. O'Brien, Donal J.-—Scarsdalc. N. Y. O'Connor. James C.—New York City. O'Connor. William S.—Indianapolis, Ind. O'Malley, Terrenco R.—Grand Rapids. Minn. Plunkett, Don J.—South Bend. Ind. Ragen. Jr,. J. M.—Chicago. III. Rees. Loo A.—Rome. N. Y. Regan. Louis J.—Minneapolis. 3Itnn. Reilly. John—Houston. Texas. Rudd. Joseph P.—Sainte Marie. III. Saxon, ,Tr.. David—Memphis. Tenn. Scholl. Oliver—New York City. Schneider, Qctus P.—Avon. Ohio. Sidenfaden. W. R.-—Los Angeles, Calif. Smith. John P.—Pittsburgh. Pa. Sullivan, Charles J.—Ardsley. N. Y. Thornton. Louis J.—Notre Dame. Ind. Voglewede, Robert B.—Chicago, Hi. Wagner, Fred,—Tiffin. Ohio. Williams. Jr., Robert P.—Nashville. Tcnn. Wright Charles-Pine Bluff. Ark. Yates. James J.—^Mt. Qemons. Mich. 
1930 

Number of members address knoicn 483 Number contributors to Roeknc Memorial 8fi Amount contributed Roeknc Memorial $2,073.70 
Abbott. Joseph—Paterson. N. J. Ashman, Chester—Los Angeles. Calif. Barrett, Jr.. James J.—Chicago, 111­
Barry, David—Johnstown, Pa. 
Beljon. Jon—Qeveland. Ohio. 
Bitter. Jr., J. A.—San Antonio, Texas. 
Butler. Jr.. F. Joseph—Qeveland. Ohio. 
Callahan, James L.—Cleveland Heights. Ohio. 
Cannon, John J.—Columbus, Ohio. 
•Collins. Edmond A.—^Tucson. Ariz. Conroy. Bernard W.—New Kensington. Pa. Cbnway.Patrick J.—Philadelphia. Pa, CostcIIo, James—East Orange, N. J. 
Supplement to the Notre Dame Alumnus 
DeWald. Robert F.—Fort Wayne. Ind. Dore, Win. H.—Shaker Heishts, Ohio. Dunn, Francis G.—Brooklyn. N. Y. Eggeman, Robert F.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Elder, John J.—Chicago, HI. Eldredge, John D.—St- Paul, Minn. Enright. Thomas J.—Chicago, HI. Fink. Frank—Huntington. Ind. Fogel, Warren S.—New Vork City. Frey, Henry R.—New York City. Frost. T. W.—Minneapolis. Minn. Gallagher, Arthur J.—Geveland Heights, Ohio. Gebert. Albert J.—Wichita, Kans. Gildea, Austin C.—Elkhart, Ind. Golden, John D.—Chicago, 111. Gruning, Carl H.—Far Rockaway, N. Y. Hand, Francis J.—Epping. N. H. Harrington, John T.—Watscka, III. Hasley, Louis—^Notrc Dame. Ind. Havran, Thad. D.—East Chicago, Ind. Hinton, Henry D.—South Bend. Ind. Jones, Wra, Kennedy—Nashville, Tenn. 
•Kelly, Dennis F.—Chicago, 111. Kenneally, Thomas F.—New Brunswick. N. J. Lantry. Thomas F.—^New York City, Law, John—^^Voodboume. N. Y. Lawler T. G.—Fairmont, Minn. Lcnsing, F. Wendell—Evansville, Ind. Lowerj', Frank C.—Nashville, Tenn. Luedtke, Walter H.—Fond du Lac. Wis. McAloon, Leo R.—Pawtucket, R. I. McCann, A. J.—New York City. McCarthy, Jr., John E.—Pittsford, N. Y. McGce, John B.—^\Varsaw. N. Y. McKay, G. E.—Minneapolis, Minn. IHediand. Thomas G.—Logansport. Ind. Miller, Wm. H.—Jackson. Miss. Monahan, jr., Charles F.—New Brighton. S. 
L, N. Y. Monti. Albert R.—Rockford. 111. Motz, John E.—Kitchener, Ontario, Canada, aiurphy, Thomas G.—Franklin, Pa. Otto, Merritt M.—South Bend, Ind. Parent, Don F.—Mt. Clemens. Mich. Parent. Fred R.—South Bend. Ind. Plunkett. Dcvere—South Bend, Ind. Reidy, Jerome G.—Lakewood, Ohio. Reynicrs, James A.—Notre Dame. Ind. Rocap, John T.—Indianapolis. Ind. Sandusk-y, Ray D.—Elkhart, Ind. Schiffer, Charles W.—Nashville, Tenn. Schoppman, F. D.—Fort Wayne. Ind. Sherman, William—Louisville. Ky. Silvestro, Samuel F.—Cleveland Heights, Ohio. Smith, William—Detroit. Mich. Sowa. Frank J.—Cranford, N. J. Spahr, Raymond J.—South Bend. Ind. Stnudt, Jr.. R., Zeno—Canton. Ohio. Sullivan, James W.—Royal Oak. Mich. Stettler, Jr.. H. Lewis—Rocky River, Ohio. Sullivan. Richard. South Bend, Ind. Sylvester. Jr.. Harry A.—St. Mary's County. 
Maryland. Theissen. Lionel G.—Minneapolis, Jlinn. Toner, Robert W.—Yonkers, N. Y. Toomey, Timothy J.—New York City. Twomey, Ted—Columbia, S. C. Vanoncini. C. J.—Santa Barbara, Calif. Weigand. Karl R.—South Bend. Ind. Winkler. George—Far Rockaway. L. L. N. Y. Woodruff. Claj-ton C.—Rochester, N. Y. Yolland. John D.—Minneapolis, Minn. Yorke, Dr. Edward T.—Linden. N. J. Zabriskie, Leon—Great Neck. N. Y, 
1931 

Number of tncmbcrs address knoivn 441 Number contributors to Jiockne Memorial 75 Amount contributed Rocknc Memorial SL549.69 Allard. Romeo P.—Los Angeles. Calif. Ashe, Thomas P.—Huntington Park. Calif. Askew, James H,—Oklahoma City, Okla. Baldinger. Lawrence H.—South Bend. Ind. Bergen, Arthur C—New York City. Boyle, Austin L.—New Orleans. La. Brown, J. S.—North Tarrytown, N. Y. Cahill. Walter E.—Chicago, HI. Conncll, Fred—Indianapolis. Ind. Carideo. Frank F.—Iowa City, Imva. Cody, Thomas P.—New Canaan. Conn. Collins, Norbert J.—Yonkers. N. Y. Coomes, Edward A.—Notre Dame. Ind. Covinprton. Jr., Walter—Chicago. 111. Dericks, Richard J.—Patcrson. N. J. Donoghue, Richard L.—New York City. Dorschel, Jno. G.^—Rochester. N. Y. Dowling, Martin J.—Rochester, N. Y. Esposito, Dr. Louis W.—Brooklyn. N. Y. Filipek, Aloysius A.—East Chicago, Ind. Flynn, Jr.. Frank T.—South Bend. Ind. Freed. Vemon J.—Mishawaka. Ind. Gaensslen. Carl A.—El Paso, Texas. Gavin. Joseph J.—Cleveland, Ohio. Goodeve, Maurice A.—Calgary. Canada, Grisanti. Alfred C.—Qeveland. Ohio. Hnaiz, Paul A.—Lewistown. N. Y. Halpin. Dan—New York City. Harrington. Joseph F.—Eureka. Utah. Henneberger, F. J.—Princeton, Ind. Hershfield, Myron C.—Goshen. Ind. Jacobi, Donald—Buffalo. N. Y^. Jones. Tod A.—Beverly Hills. Calif. 
Kearney, James J.—South Bend, Ind. Kissane, John G.—Pittsburgh, Pa. Lauorman, Joseph^Marinette, Wis. Leahy, Wm. R.—Chicago. HI. Leavy, John A.—Elkhart, Ind. *McVean, Malcom R.—Rochester, N. Y. Metzger, Bertram L.—Chicago, 111. Morris. J. H.—Cleveland, Ohio. Mosher, Francis H.—Brooklyn, N. Y'. Motsctt, Rev. C. Bourke—Kewanee. 111. Jtlurphy, John J.—Oak Park. 111. Murray, Edward J-—South Bend, Ind. Neydon, Robert—Detroit, IMich. Noll, Jr., Francis J.—Indianapolis, Ind. Oakes, Thomas E.—Boston. Mass. O'Brien. Matthew M.—Tampa. Fla. O'Brien, Michael J.—Tampa, Fla. O'Brien. Walter A.—Albany, N. Y. O'Leary, Lawrence A.—Menlo Park. Calif. O'Shea. Lewis J,—New York City. Phillip, Walter F.—Philadelphia, Pa. Ponic, Vincent G.—Chicago, III. Powers. Jr., C. F.—Savannah, Ga. Prendergast, Phil—Lakevv^ood. Ohio. Quinn. Peter J.—Bloorafield. N. J. Ransavage. Anthony J.—Helena. Jlont. Richtor. George A.—Utica, N. Y. Ridley. Walter R.—Philadelphia. Pa. Rorke, James H.—New York City. Rossati, Joseph J.—Brooklyn. N. Y. Ruppe. Robert J.—Chicago. 111. Saunders, John F.—Boston. Mass. Schroeder, Joseph R.—Minneapolis, Minn. Se>-mour. Albert J-—^Malone. N. Y. Sosenheimor. R. F.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Strong. J. T.—Alhambra. Calif. Svoboda, Frank—Cleveland. Ohio. Thorton. Howard—^ISIishawaka, Ind. Tubcrty, Harold J.—Logansport, Ind. Tuohy. Albert J.—Bayside. L. L. N. Y. Vauffhn. Thomas H.—Trenton. Mich; Vertacnik,, Joseph F.—Saginaw, Mich. 
•|932 

Number of members address known 550 Number contributors to Rocfcne Memorial 121 Amount contributed Rocknc Memorial $2,237.97 
Augustine, Gilbert P.—Perth Amboy, N. J. Ball. Hugh—Lakewood. Ohio. Bauer, Jr.. Fred J.—^Memphis, Tenn. Behrman, Henry B.—Glenwood. HI. Belden. Jr., Paul B.—Canton, Ohio. Blancy. J. A.—Grand Rapids. Mich. Blind. Wm. C—New York City. Blocmer. Bernard—Lexington. Ky. Boden, J. D.—Jersey City, N. J. Brichacek. Francis A.—Oak Park. HI. Brill, Slartin—Norwood. Pa. Cass, William P.—Buffalo. N. Y. 
Cassidy. !Most Rev. James E.—Fall River, 
Mass. Cavanaugh. Leo—Detroit. Mich. Corri, William T.—Mishawaka. Ind. Qark. Paul D.—Florence. N. Y. Clark. Philip F.—Brooklyn. N. Y. Collins. John J.—Gcveland Heights. Ohio. Conboy, Frank J.—Geneva. N. Y. Condon. Leonard W.—Rockford, HI. Connelly. Eugene T.—Elmhurst. L. I.. N. X, Covington. John M.—Chicago. HI. Cox. Ellsworth A.—South Bend. Ind, Crawford. Dr. Myron E.—CTevcIand. Ohio. Croxall. WiUard J.—Cheltenham. Pa. Czapalski, Stanley J.—Chicago, 111. DeBartola. Edward J.—Youngstown. Ohio. Dillon. Terrence J-—River Forest. HI. Donohoo, John C.—Pittsburgh, Pa. Dunn. Joseph—Buffalo. N. Y. Emerick. Frank H.—Atlanta. Ga. Feely. Jr.. Thomas P.—Joliet. HI. Fotzger. John N.—Chicago. III. Fitch. Edwin G.—Pittsburgh, Pa. Flanagan. Paul—Grand Rapids. Mich. Fletcher. Vincent T.—Utica, N. Y. Foley, Joseph M.—RuHand. Vermont. Gar\-cr, .Tohn Thomas—Washington. D. C. Gcddes, Jr., John J.—Newark. N. J. Geigcr, Ray—^Newark. N. J. Gerharz. Robert J.~~Lcmont, HI. Graham. Frank—Chicago. HI. Hall, Wm. T.—Buffalo. N. Y. Hamilton. John W.—Dayton. Ohio. Harbaugh, Noble F.—South Bend. Ind. Hazon. L. Forrest—South Bend. Ind. Hessmer. Everett L.—Oklahoma City. Okla. Hickoy. Thomas L.—South Bend. Ind. Hilgcr. James R.—Columbus. Ind. Hockwalt. John—Canton. Ohio. Hogan. Edmund H.—Lakewood. Ohio. Hyland. Ch'fford F.—Rockford, HI. Igoe, Jr.. James T.—Chicago. HI-Jackson. Dr. John W.—Bayside. L. I.. N. Y. Jane. Emil J.—Chicago. III. Jordan. John A.—New York City. Kelly, Edward Joseph—Brooklyn. N. Y. Kelly, Dr. F. J.—Wilkcs-Barre. Pa. Kelly. Robert E.^Evanston. III. Kiencr, John A.—Rocky River. Ohio. Kiolbosa. Walter A.—Chicago. HI. Klein. Jr.. A. J.—Minneapolis, Minn. La Dame, John Wm.—Wilsonville. HI. 
Landgrave, G. R.—^Peru, Ind. Langenbahn, Wm. R.—^Detroit, Mich. Loescb, Arthur A.—Aldenville, Pa, Lomasney, Wm. F.—Oklahoma City, Okla. Mahoney, Richard—Cleveland. Ohio. 3Iammana, Joseph—Easton, Pa. Marshall, John F.—South Bend. Ind, McCarthy, Jr., F. J.—Sunnyaide. N. Y. JWcKevitt. Thomas L.—Washinston, D. C. McLaughlin, Leo Vincent—Brooklyn, N. Y. Mehren, Edward J-—^Phoenix, Ariz. Meyer, Carl F.—Mound City. IlL Meyer, Jr., Henry A.—Enid, Okla. Mobler, Dennison D.—Grand Rapids, Mich. Moss, Harry—New York City. Mullen, Walter F.—Syracuse, N. Y. Murphy, John H.—Dorchester, Mass. Murphy, Thomas E.—Chicago, HI. Ochsenschlager, Paul E.—^Aurora. HI. O'Kane, Francis J.—New York City. O'Malley, I^Tmcis J.—Notre Dame. Ind. O'Shaughnessy, Cohnan—White Plains, N. Y. Otto, William C—San Benito, Texas. Peroni. John—Buffalo, N. Y. -Petritz, Joseph—South Bead, Ind. Pfeiffer, Raymond L.—^Louisville. I^ . Pflaiun, Daniel J.—Denver, Colo. Quigley. Charles M-—^Richmond, Ind-Quirk, Patrick J.—Cbrtland. N. Y. Redmond, Wm.—Joliet, lU, Reilly, Francis H.—Dorchester, Mass. Rivers, Jack C.—Paducab, Ky. Roethele, Bernard J.—South Bend, Ind. Rohrbach, Robert J.—St. Louis, Mo. Rossie, Thomas A.—^New York City. Rossiter, Lawrence—^Hartington, Nebraska. Ruffing. Cornelius J.—Qeveland, Ohio. Russell, aiurray A.—Bethesda. Maryland. Ryan, George B.—Los Angeles, Calif. Ryan, John E.—^Washington. D. C. Ryan, William J.—Chicago, HI. Scharbach, John A.—Mt. Angel, Oregon. Seelinger, George F.—Sayville, L. L. N. Y. Sferra. Amadeo G.—New York City. Sinmaons, Jr., James W.—Quanah. Texas. Sinkule, Joseph F.—Canal Zone. SitcK Joseph P.—Chicago, HI. Slader. William T.—Jamaica Estates, N. Y. Staunton, John J.—Chicago, HI. Theisen, Cyril CTetus—St. Joseph, Mich. Theisen, Gerard C.—^Detroit, Mich. Toussaint, Joseph A. Chicago, HI. Troost, Clarence W.—Forest Park, 111. Ussher, George C.—South Bend, Ind. Van Rooy, William—Rocky River, Ohio. Werner, Jack—New York City. White, Alfred B.—Buchanan, Mich. Ziliak. Charles A.—Princeton, Ind. 
]933 

NwnbcT of menibers address knoion 450 Number contributors to Rocknc Memorial 107 Amount contributed Rocknc Memorial §702.20 Aug, Jr., George E.—Cincinnati. Ohio. Becvar, Arthur N.—Lakewood, Ohio. Boisvcrt, Rev. Victor J. C. S. C.—Notre Dame, 
Ind. Bourke, J. L.—Qeveland, Ohio. Breen, John F.—Detroit, Mich. Buckley, Walter—^Waterbury. Conn. Buhl, Francis R.—Dayton, Ohio. Burris, Robert E.—Elkhart. Ind. Butler, Al—St. Albans, N. Y. Byrne, Robert J.—Norwich. N. Y. Cannon, Thomas A.—Muncie, Ind. Coyne, Eugene—Pittsburgh, Pa. Connelly. Peter J.—Rochester, N. Y, Crowe, Frank J,—Chicago, HI. Cummings. l.eo J.—Seattle, Wash. Daley, Kenneth O.—Camden. N, Y. Danehy. James P.—Qeveland, Ohio. Darmody, Philip A.—Chicago, HI. Darrow, W. Lawrence—Brooklyn. N, Y. DeQerck. Frank E.—Rochester, N. Y". DeWald, Maurice J.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Dockman. Joseph—Baltimore. Md. Donalty, Frank—Utica, N. Y. Doyle. James F.—St. Catherines, Ontario, 
Canada. Dreux. William B.—^New Orleans, La. Eckert, E. J.—Albany. N. Y. Fallon. Jr.. Francis X.—New York City. Farris, C. L.—^Arlington, Va. Filson, Robert B.—New Bethlehem. Pa. Fischer, Howard C.—Elmhurst. HI. Fleckenstein. Eugene M.-^il City, Pa. Ford. Carl B.—Cameys Point. N. J. Ford. C. S. C. William B.—Brookland, D, C. Forshner. A. J.—Cicero. HI. Frank. Carlos H.—Buffalo. N. Y. Geoghegan. Jr.. Phih'p C.—Qeveland. Ohio. Gerend. James J.—Sheboyjran. Wis, Gill. John F.—Minot, N. D. Harkabus, Elmer L.—Bridgeport. Conn. Harrison, Rev. F. J.—Binphamton. N. Y. Hawkos. William M.—San Diego. Calif. Hayes. Edward J.—Dunkirk, N. Y. Heverin, Edward P.—Auburn. N. Y. Higgins. Willard J.—New York City. Holleran, Stephan M.—Welch. W. Va. Holman. Currier—Salix, Iowa. Hoyt. John A.—New York City. 
Huehen. Thomas A.—Beaumont, Texas. Hunter, William P.—New Madrid. Mo. Hyde, Jr.. Samuel—New York City. Jenney, Frank J.—New York City. Johnson, Walter F.—Kenton, Ohio. Joyce, John R.—ChicaEO, H!. Kanaley, James D.—Chicago, HI. Kaskiw, Eugene A.—^Newark, N. J-Kehoe, James P.—Paterson, N. J. Kelley, John J.—Eau Qaire. Wis. Killecn, E. B.—^University Heights, Ohio. Kitkowski, Zigmund H.—South Bend, Ind. Kokowicz, Stanley E.—Perth Amboy. N. J. Krantz. Ferdinand J.—CarbondaJe. Pa. Kronewitter, Ronald A.—Mishawaka, Ind. Ledinff. llichael J.—Schenectady. N. Y. Lennartz. Geonre—Lakewood. Ohio. Lcroux. Ed%vard W.—^Tulsa, Okla. Lewis, Robert P.—South Bend. Ind-Lisiakowski. Edwin—Toledo, O. Loughrcy, Charles il.—Brookb*n. N. Y. Lynch. William—Yonkers, N. Y. Mahaffey, Thomas—Indianapolis, Irid. Malley, Eugene—Haverstraw. N. Y. Marterstcck, William J.—^Detroit, Mich. McGee, Frank S.—New York City. Moriarty. Ed—Detroit, Mich. Alueller, James G.—Pitlsburgh. Pa. Mulhall. John L.—Sioux City. Iowa, jrurphy, P. T.—Oak Park. HI. Myers. Herbert G.—McKcesport. Pa. O'Connor. C. J.—^Birmingham, Mich. O'Keofe, A. E.—Verona, N. J. O'Lcary, Robert J.—Buffalo. N. Y. Pick, John F.—Madison. Wis. Powell, Robert D.—Detroit, Mich. Pozzi, E. Joseph—Phiiadelohia. Pa. Prendergast. Henry J.—Newark. N. J, Preston. Charles W.—Fairbanks. Alaska. Quinlan, Jack^Soperton, Wis. Reed. Thomas E.—South Bend, Ind. Rich, W. E.—Whittier, Calif. Roddy. J. Harold—Washington. D. C. Rohrs. George H.—^New York City. Roney, Walter—Chicago, 111. Ryan, Ambrose E.—Chicago, 111. Schumacher. Francis J.—Kankakee, HI. Schwartz. Norbert F.—Salina, Kansas. Shiebler, A. J.—Brooklyn. N. Y. Sloan, Jr., John F.—Peoria. 111. Smith, Lionel V. O.—Buffalo, N. Y. Snite, Fred B.—Chicago, HI. Staley. Carroll A.—Lakewood. Ohio. Stanton, Edward—South Bend. Ind. Stewart. Jr.. William A.—Watertown, N. Y. Switzer, Joseph—St. Louis. Mo. Teske, Lloyd. C. S. C—Brookland, D. C. Weniger, Fred L.—Honesdale, Pa. Wiatrowski. Fcliks L.—South Bend. Ind. Woods, Tighe E.—Chicago. Bl. 
1934 

Number of members address Jcnovm 459 Number contributors to Rockne Memorial 181 Amount contributed Rockne Memorial $1,022.75 
Abel, John P.—^Anderson. Ind. Alberts, Edward—Logansport, Ind. Alexander, Ben—Los Angeles, Calif. Anzlovar, Jr., A- F.—Qeveland. Ohio. Auth, Andrew—^Washington, D. C. Baker, Vincent P.—Rochester. Ind. Begley. John H.—Develand. Ohio. Bires. Joseph A.—I^nkakee. 111. Blaine, George J.—Vineland, N. J. Brice, A. Donald—Brooklyn. N. Y. Brost, Jr.. John M.—Chicago. PI. Brown, Deslage—^Memphis. Tenn. Bulger, Donald Wm.—Gouvemeur, N. Y. Burchell. H. M.—Brooklyn. N. Y. Burke. Thomas B.—Delton. Wis. Butler, Edward J.—^Wilmington. Del. Butler, Robert Wm.—Lakewood. Ohio. Byrne, Thomas E.—Phocnixville, Pa. Cacciatore. Leonard A.—Yonkers. N. Y. Cacciatore. Rocco—Yonkers. N. Y. Cagncj-, Richard D.—Evanston. PI. Cahill, Michael E.—Pontiac. Mtch. Cahill. Robert M,—South Bend. Ind. Calhoun, George W.—Sheboygan. Wis. Capitolo, John C—Salt I^ke City, Utah. Carmody, John P.—Moberly, Mo. Carroll. Charles H.—Detroit. Mich. Casey, John T.—Elmhurst. N. Y. Ccmcy, O. J.—Cleveland. Ohio. Ghenal, Robert C,—Cincinnati. Ohio, Gark, James F.—Groton. N. Y. Oark, L. P.—Florence. N. Y. Clark, Robert L.—Mulberry. Ind. Colgan, Robert^Dcveland Heights, O. CoiViTis. William—Alpena, Mich. Conley. Arthur W.—Canton. Ohio. Conlon. Loo C—Endicott, N. Y. Corcoran, Robert L.—Penn Yan. N. Y. Coyne, Gilbert H.—Lakewood. Ohio. Craine, Jr., C. P.—Detroit, Mich. Crego. Francis T.—Maspeth, N. Y. Cunningham. Edwin J.—Areola, PI. Curran, James C.—^York, Nrfi. Curry, Wallace James—Hastings, Neb. Curtin, Andries A.—Famams, Mass. Dalton, Thomas F.—Brooklyn, N. Y. Daniel, Edward—^Murphysboro. PI. 
Demer, Robert J.^Honesdale, Pa. Devine. J. A.—Nonvalk, Conn. Donnelly, Henry C,—Memphis, Tenn. Dorsey, John J.—AVashington, D. C. Dunnigan, J. J.—New York City, Duval, Clement A.—Saratoga Springs, N. Y. Dwj-er, Joseph E.—Joliet, PI. Egan, John F.—Scringfield, Mass. Else, Ralph F.—Auburn. N. Y. Ennis, Joseph L.—^New York City. Farrell, A. Gerard—Rochester. N. Y, Favret, Lionel T.-—New Orleans, La. Federer, Xavier F.^—Weehawken, N. J. Feldman. Theodore F.—Detroit, 3Iich. Finkel, Charles A.—Clifton, N. J. Fitzgerald, Hugh—Brooklyn. N. Y. Fitzgerald, John J.—Pawtucket, R. I. FitzSimon, Robert T.—Milwaukee, Wis. Flannery, Howard H.—Babylon, N. Y. Flatloy, William J.^Antigo. Wis. Flynn, John J.—Quincy, 111. Fransioli, V. Garvin—Memphis, Tenn. Galbraith, James G.—Anniston, Ala. Gallagher, Paul W.—^\VaverIy, Iowa. Garland. Maurice—-Kewanee, HI. Gartland, Francis B.—Brooklyn, N. Y, Glockner. Bernard A.—Portsmouth, Ohio. Green, William W.—Cherokee, Iowa. Gross, Jr., Lawrence T.—^Tarrytown, N. Y. Haight, Robert W.—Racine. Wis. Hall, Invin C—Olmstead Falls, Ohio. Halpin, Robert H.^New York City. Hanley, John J.—Modford, Mass. Hanratty, Joseph E.—Parma, Ohio. Harrington, Robert—Scranton, Pa. Hayes, John—^New York City. Healy, Eugene P.—Brooklyn, N. Y. Hensel, Norman J.—Western Springs, Bl. Hiegel, Alfred J.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Hiegel, Theodore J.—Conway, Ark. Hockbcrger. William—Baton Rouge, La. Hockwalt, Paul H.—Canton, Ohio. Holland, Eugene J,—Chicago, Bl. Horrigan. J. E.—Coulee City, Wash. Hughes. Robert—Lansing. Mich. Huisking. Wm. W.—Huntington. N. Y. Huller, Ralph T.—Cleveland Heights. Ohio. Humbrecht, H. J.^Fort Wayne. Ind. Jahr, Charles A.—Elkhom, Wis. Janis. Andrew C.—Detroit, Mich. Jasinski, V. J.—Spring Valley, N. Y. Jenkins. Clarence W,—^Avon, N. Y. Kane, Paul R.—Altoona. Pa. Kelley, Robert K.—South Bend, Ind. Kenefake, Edwin-~Schenectady. N. Y. Kerns, Edward—Saginaw, Mich. Kicltyka, Stephen^-Yonkers, N. Y. Kuster, Ted—Cleveland. Ohio. Lagger, Edwin J.—Joliet, Bl. Lambert, George W.—Brooklyn, N. Y. Land. John B.—Scbncctady. N. Y. Ledermann. Charles C.—Utica, N. Y. Lentsch. Matthew A.—South Bend. Ind. Leonard. Russell—Orange. N. J. Lesko, John G.—^Windber, Pa. Linton, Frank—Chicago. III. Louey, James—Independence, Kans. Lynn, Jerome A.—Haubstadt, Ind. Mailhes. Lawrence J.—Shreveport, La. Maloy, Willard E.—Akron. Ohio. Manoski, P. A.—Huntington. Ind. Martersteck, Paul J.—Louisville, Ky. Massimine. Ernest—Brooklyn. N. Y. Mauren, Vincent W.—^Minneapolis, Minn. McCann, Frank C—South Orange. N. J. 3lIcCorry. Howard A.—Kams City, Pa. McGeary, Brian—^Winona. Miss. McKiernan, John S.—Providence, R. I. McLaughlin, J. J.—Cumberland. R. I. ^IcLaughlin. Thomas C.—Ann Arbor, Mich. McManus, Henry H,—^\Venatchee, Wash. Meicklejohn, Robert—Manawa. Wis, Morrow, James W.—Chicago. Bl. Motsett, William J.—Peoria, Bl. Moynihan. Thomas C.—South Bend. Ind. Mueller, Charles W.—Cambridge, Ma:;s. Murphy, Edward M.—Janesville, Wis. Nachtwey, Robert—Lansing, Iowa. Nelson, Thomas H.—Port Angeles, Wash. Newberrj*. William—Hollj-wood, Calif. Niodzielski. Qemens F.—Bay City, Mich. Nortman, Harry R.—Chicago, III. Nowak. Joseph, S.—South Bend, Ind. O'Connor, John J.—Kansas City. Mo. O'Connor, Richard D.—Highwood. 111. O'Jfalley, Thomas J.—Chicago, Bl. Paradise, Thomas—Alliance. Neb. Paskwietz, David J.^—Whiting. Ind. Pendergast. James—Memphis. Tenn, Pugliese, Anthony J,—New York City. Reeves, James—New York City, Reilly, AVilliam C—Orange, N. J. Richards. Samuel E.—Washington, D. C. Roche, John J.—^West New Brighton, S. I., 
N. Y. Rockett. Jr., Harry J.—Dorchester, Mass. Hodin, Max B.—Louis*'iIle, Ky. Rogers. Ralph E.—Arequipa, Peru. S. A. Rokos, Henry W.—Traverse Ci^, Mich. Ryan, Richard D.—Schenectady, N. Y. Schenkel, Norbert J.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Schewe. Ralph A.—Merrill. Wis. Schidel, George Edward—Girard, Ohio, 
Schnabd. Donald E,—Merrill, Wis. Sharpe. John F.—Coaldale, Pa. Sheridan. Win. J.—Jersey City, N. J. Slack, Robert M.—Medina, N. Y. Smith, Joseph A.—Indianapolis, Ind. Smith. Ralph—Niles, Mich. Sport. Jr.. Edward F.—New Orleans, La. Sporl, Harold D.—New Orleans, La. Stone. Robert J.—Dayton, Ohio. Sullivan. Charles R.—St. Albans. Vermont. Tobin. Thomas E.—Miles City, Mont. Toomey. Francis J.—New York City. Torborg, Martin P.—Fort Wayne. Ind. Vaughan, Joseph E.—Syracuse. N. Y. Waldron. Thomas Howard—^Trenton. N. J. Wiedl, Michael F.—Atlanta, Ga. Winter, F. Qinton, Newark, N. J. Witucki, Bernard J.^South Bend. Ind. Wolf, William L.—Baton Rouge, La. Yeager, William G.—Binghamton, N. Y. Zimmerer. Carl E.—South Bend, Ind. Zimmerman, Bernard J.—Chicago, Bl. 
1935 

Number of members address IMOIPH 560 Number contributcyrs to Rockne Memorial 212 Amount contributed Rockne Memorial §560,75 
Aberle, Earl J,—Bridgeville, Pa, Albo, Ariste J.—Spokane, Wash. Andrews. George W.—Augusta, Ga. Annas. John T.—Detroit, Mich. Argus, Joseph H.—Indianapolis, Ind. Bacon, John F,—Cando, N. D. Bahan, Edward—Greenville. S, C. Baran, William—Yonkers. N. Y. Barlow, Adair C.—^AmariJlo. Tevas. Bernard. William P.—Barberton. Ohio. Berry, Daniel J,—Chicago. III. Bittner, Joseph A.—Jamaica. L. I.. N. Y. Bloom, Lucicn R,—South Euclid, Ohio. Bona. Frank T.—Chicago. III. Bookwalter, James W.—Niles, Mich, Bracken, Edward A.—Brooklj-n, N. Y. Brophy, Joseph J.—Floral Park. N. Y. Brown, Matthew M.—Springfield, Ohio. Brucker, Charles A.—^Niles, Mich. Bugni, Lawrence John—Montreal, Wis. Burke, Francis E.—^\Vilkes-Barre, Pa* Burke, John J.—Milwaukee, Wis. Cain, Thomas J.—Elkins. W. Va, Callahan. Jr„ Edward A,—Bronx, N. Y. Carideo. Jr., Angelo—Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Cass, Frank—Buffalo. N. Y, Chayie. Oliver—South Bend. Ind. Cifrese, Liborio—Morristown, N. J. Cole. William N.—Paola, Kans. Cordaro, Joseph T,—Rochester, N. Y. Corrjgan, James B,—^\Vauwatosa. Wis, Corrigan, John T.—AVauwatosa. Wis. Cowles, Gerald H.—Woodhull. Bl. Coyle, Jack R,—Detroit, Mich. Cripe, Jr., Ralph W,—South Bend, Ind. Cronin, James R.—Chicago, Bl. Crowley, Cornelius J.—Brooklyn, N. Y. Crunican. John J.—Chicago, Bl. Canale, Francis S.—Memphis, Tenn. Gushing, Jerome—Chicago. III. Dausman, Hurdis D.—Bremen. Ind. Devaney, Robert iL—Mundelein. Ill, Devanney, Louis R.—Sayre, Okla. Devers, James—Scranton, Pa. Devith, Joseph S.—Milwaukee. Wis, Dillon, Robert E.—Chicago, III. Dolister. Harold H,—Racine, Wis. Dougher. Paul A.—Evanston. III. Doyle, Francis Edward—Oak Park, III. Dubs, Glenn—Canton, Ohio. Duffey, J. Nye.—Rochester, N. Y. Ehmet, Francis—Buffalo, N. Y. Erdle, Fred J.—Rochester. N. Y. Ewing, Thomas F.—Chicago, Bl. Farrell, J. Neil—Memphis. Tenn. Fergus, Paul A.—South Bend, Ind. Flanigan, Jack—Chicago, III. Flynn. Jr.. Thomas W.—Chicago, Bk Foley, Jr., Thomas J.—Memphis, Tenn. Forbes. Jr., Robert L.—Mamaroneck, N. Y. Foy, John F.—Bloomington. Bl. Fry, John—Kansas City, Mo. Gaensslen. Emil A.—Green River, Wyo. Gafney. Harry—^Ware. Mass. Gauthior. Ralph—East St. Louis. Bl. Gerrits. John R.—Yonkers. N. Y. Gerivc. Maurice—Cincinnati, Ohio. Gibb. Robert Henrj-—Rockford, 111. Gibbons, Samuel J.—Daj-ton, Ohio. Gillooly, John—Rochester, N . Y. Glenn, James J,—^Whiting, Ind. Gorgen, William P.—Mineral Point, Wis. Gregory. Joseph F.—Carroll, Iowa. Grosso, Louis J.—New York City. Hargrove, Jordan T,—^Woodslde, N. Y. Harris. Falmore B.—South Bend, Ind. Hart. Paul M.—Waupaca, Wis. Hench. Fred J.—Mt. Clemens, Mich. Henneberger, Robert L.—^Jlt. Carmel. Bl. Hess, Philip C.—Mishawaka. Ind. Hickey, Jr., Thomas L.—South Bend, Ind, Hobert. Cecil Joseph—Shaker Heights. Ohio. Hochreiter, Franklyn—New Orleans, La. Hoeffer, Robert—Beverly Hills, Calif. Hofstetter. Charles F.—Richmond. N, Y. Hosinski. Leonard C.—South Bend, Ind. Hyde, Richard D.—SfinneapoHs, Minn. 
Supplement to the Notre Dame Alumnus 
Jackson, John Wm.—Elkhart, Ind. Jenkins, Lyle—South Bend, Ind. Johnson, Rodgers P.—^Independence. Kans. Kaufmann. James A.—Newton, III. Keefe, William C—Bronxville. N. Y. Keesan. Thomas N.—Chicago, III. Kelliher. Joseph J.—Chicago, HI. Kelly, Luke F.—South Bend, Ind. Kelly, Philip E.—Berkeley, Calif. Kennedy, William A.—Brooklyn, N . Y. Kenedy, William J.—New Hampton, Iowa. Kilker, Thomas M.—^Ashtahula. Ohio. Kilmurry. Edward J.—Atkinson. Neb. Kinvin, Kobcrt W.—Spring Valley, Minn. Kohtman, Harold L.—Elmhurst, III. Koppelberger, Jr., Francis L.—Bay Gty, Jlich. Korzeneski, Arthur L.—Chicago, 111. Kurzweg. Jr.. Victor J.—Baton Rouge, La. Kyle. Eldrcd L.—Goshen, Ind. Lambert. R. W.—Lowell. Ind. Lawton, George A.—Lakewood, Ohio. Lee. Harry—Long Beach, Calif. Logan, John H.—Fort Wayne, Ind. Loritsch. Jr., Alfred F.—^Washington, D. C. Lynch, Jr., John E.—South Bend, Ind. Lyons, Roger—^Appleton. Wis. Mac Dcvitt, Jr., J. C.—Jackson Heights, N. Y. Mahall, Cornelius H.—Lakewood, Ohio. Maher. Robert G.—Lecchburg, Pa. Maholchic, Paul—New York City. Martin, Donald—Winner. S. D. Maxwell, Francis R.—Grand Rapids. Ohio. McCutchan, Roscoe C.—Heavener, Okla. McDonald. Thomas B.—Rochester. N. Y. McDonnell, John F.—Davenport, Iowa. McElligott. John A.—Chicago, 111. McGowan, Harry J.—Pittsburgh, Pa. McGrath, Jr.. J. M.—New York City. McKeon, James—New Haven. Conn. Montagne. Edward J.—Hollywood, Calif. Montedonico, J. S.—Memphis. Tcnn. Moran. John A.—Mt. Clemens, Mich. Morris, Fred L.—^Mexico, Mo. 
Morrissey. Robert L.—Cleveland Heights. Ohio, Moss. William—New York City. Murphy. John F.—Memphis. Tcnn. Murphy, Joseph Emmett—Ida Grove. Iowa. Nanovic. Joseph P.—Palmerton. Pa. Neary, R. J.—Bronx. N, Y. Neeson. Jr.. John H.—Philadelphia. Pa. Nickodcmus, W. R.—Saginaw. Mich. O'Brien, James G.—Chicago, 111. O'Connor, CTiarics J.—Marietta. Pa. O'Connor, William J.—Milwaukee, Wis. O'Neill, Leo—Pittsburgh, Pa. Osthaus, Bernard B.—Newaygo, Mich. Owen, Thomas B.—South Bend. Ind. Pendergast. Robert—Kansas City. Mo. Perry, Edwin A.—Jersey City. N. J. Poelking. John A.—Cleveland, Ohio. Poi\-er, Peter D.—Teaneck, N. J. Powers, Walter—Jamaica, N. Y. Prezebel, Richard—Cleveland Heights, Ohio. Proctor, Thomas G.—Elkhart. Ind. Purcell, Phil—Salt Lake City, Utah. Purdum, George E.—Macomb, 111. Quirk, John P.—Chicago, 111. Raddatz, Edward D.—Shaker Heights, Ohio. Rainey. John T.—Troy, N. Y. Reilly, James J.—Atlantic Highlands, N. J. Reynolds, William E.—Belmont, Mass. Rice, Joseph P.—^Auburn, N. Y. Rich, Melville C—Whittier, Calif. Richardson, Earl N.-—Bremen. Ind. Rigney, Jr., Thomas J.—River Forest. HI. Roark, Maurice E.—Macomb. III. Rogers, Patrick W.—Glencoc, Minn. Rogers, R. F.—Rockaway Beach. N. Y. Rosenstein, Stanley—Mishawaka. Ind. Ryan. John J.-—South Bend, Ind. Rye. William A.—Long Beach. N. Y. Ryan. William F.—South Bend. Ind. Sander, Thomas—Salamanca. N. Y'. SantuUi, Michael—New York aty . Schafler, Joseph L.—Carnegie. III. Schiralh*, Rocco V.—Garj-, Ind. Schmidt. William E.—Woodhaven, L. L, N. Y. Scholz. Roy O.—Cleveland. Ohio. Schueppert. Karl J-—Chicago, 111. Seelie, Francis J.—Lakewood, Ohio. Semper, Paul F.— Spalding. Neb. Seymour, James E.—Honeoye Falls, N. Y. Shanahan, Robert E.—Mt. Clemens. Mich. Shay, Frank J.—Columbus. Ohio. Shea. Raymond J.—Springfield. Mass. Sheehan, William H.—Oakland. Calif. Short, William E.—Blairsvillc, Pa. Shovan. Jr., Louis R.—Carbondale, 111. Simmons. Robert—Rochester, N. Y. Sinnott, Frank R.—North Tarrytnwn. N. Y. Staub, Paul W.—Fort Wa3me. Ind. Stelzer, George Wm.—Chicago. 111. Stolorow, Samuel—South Bend. Ind. Stroud, Franklin A.—La Porte. Ind. Sullivan. James—^Terre Haute, Ind. Syring. Karl M.—Toledo. Ohio. Thole, Paul C.—Evansville. Ind. Tombragel. Slaurice F.—Los ATiffc}es. Calif. Tourek. Claude W.—Berwyn. HI. Van Huisseling. Edward J.—Oak Park. HI. Wackerman, Adrian J.—Philadelphia. Pa. Walter. John—Mansfield, Ohio. Walton, Earl S.—Mishawaka. Ind. Washko, Joseph T.—Windber, Pa. 
Weigand. Victor—Barberton, Ohio. 
Whelan, James D.—Hastings, Neb. 
Wieber, Mark J.—Fowler, Mich. 
Wiggins. Cyril A.—Portsmouth, Ohio. 
Williams, Joseph B.—Fort Wayne. Ind. 
Wuicik. John A.—Yonkers, N. Y. 
Yates, Or land—Hannibal. Jilo. 
Zimmers, E. J.—Racine. Wis. 
1936 

Number of vtcmbcra address knouiii 30' Number contributors to Rockne Memorial 55 Amcmnt contributed Rockne Memorial S238.7S 
Albert, Robert C.—Racine. Wis. BauBher. G. Hart—Mishawalia, Ind. Bayer, William K.—Erie, Pa. Becker, Harry P.—Louisville, Ky. Bray, Jack—Paducah. Ky. Brick. Anthony W.—North Tonawanda, N. Y. Burke. James B.—Lemoore, Calif. Busichio, John J.—Elizabeth. N. J. Carideo. Fred J.—Detroit, Mich. Cavanaugh. R. W.—Washinston, D. C. Daoust. William E.—Defiance. Ohio. Darcy. Wm. J.—Lakewood. Ohio. Deichmann. John—Santa Monica, Calif. LeLandero, Carlos A.—Pachuca. Hgo.. Mexico. Devme, R. B.—Norwalk. Conn. Dunn, Ed. R.—Utica. N. Y. FieivaBer, Wm. H.—Menasha. Wis. Flynn, John V.—Dcs Moines. Iowa. Flynn. Fred V.—Dos Moines, Iowa. Gaul, Francis J.—Waterville. Maine. Gcidemann, Kenneth L,—Niles, Mich. Goldman, Irwin L.—^Woodmore, L. I., N. Y. Grubb. Henry W.—Louisville, Ky. Harrington. Jack—Memphis. Tenn. Heywood. John—New Richmond. Wis. Hufnagcl. Andrew—Ridgewood, N. Y. Kaiser. Ralph—Lakewood. Ohio. Kirby, James H.—New York City. Laws. Kenneth. F.—Lafayette. Ind. Lounsberry. Eugene—Brooklyn. N. Y. L>-nch, Wilson A.—Elkhart. Ind. Macdonald. Wm. C—St. Louis. JIo. Mallett. George M.—Cincinnati. Ohio. Martin, Arthur R.—Chicago, 111. McCormack, Donnell J.—Memphis. Tenn. McCralcy, Wm. Jas.—Carnegie. Pa. Moran. John J.—New York City. Moriarity. G. J.—LaCrosse. Wis. Moty. G. R.—Klamath Falls. Oregon. Alulholland. A. J.—Kalamazoo, Mich. Ott. Joseph Norbert—Quincy. 111. Page. Wm. G.—Chicago. 111. Pilney, .\ndy—Chicago. III. Rhein, John C.—Houston. Texas. Scafati. Andy—Dedham. Mass. Scolaro, Anthony T.—Arlington Heights. HI. Shapiro. Frank—New York City. Smith. Jr., Edward C—Harrisburg, Pa. Snooks. R. M.—St. Louis. Mo. Solari. Fred C.—Pembroke. Mass. Struck. William L.—Dayton, Ohio. Varraveto. Dominick J.—Chicago. 111. Wall. Jr.. Hugh E.—Washington. D. C. Walsh. Jr.. W. A.—Yonkers. N. Y. 
1937 

Number of members address knojcn 50G Number contributors to Rockne Memorial 33 Amount contributed Rockne Memorial 5909.30 
Bock. Milton J.—Mishawaka. Ind. Claeys. Jerry C.—South Bend. Ind. Coy. Jr.. Chiirles J.—St. Louis. Mo. Cronin, Jr., A. D.—Detroit. Mich. Crotty. Joseph W.—New York City. Druecker, H. J.—Indianapolis. Ind. Dubbs. J. A.. Jr.—Cleveland. Ohio. Fox. John E.—South Bend. Ind. Frascati, F. P.—Port Arthur, Tctas. Eraser. C. Glynn—North Randolph, Mass. Grace. Joseph P.—New York City. Hardart, Frank—Forest Hills. N. Y. Hastings, James O.—Detroit, Mich. Haukc, Anthony F.—Chillicothe, O. Huisking, Ed. P.—Huntington. N. Y, Hulsking. F. R.—Huntington. N. Y. Joyce. ,Tr., Ned—Spartanburg, S. C. Kelly. Fergus F.—Jamaica. N. Y. Leibin. Charles G.—Geveland. Ohio. Mcintosh. J. K.—Port Arthur. Texas. McJIichael. Guy H.—South Bend, Ind. Meyer, Frank J.—Danville. HI. Neaher. Edward R.—Hollis. N. Y. Moulder. J. A.—Buffalo. N. Y. Nolan. James—Hempstead. N. Y. Over. Rev. C. M.—Cheektowaga. N. Y. Pierce. Harriston J.—Garden City. N. Y. Quinn, James L.—Elizabeth, N. J. Rcardnn, Edward J.—Kansas City. Mo. Schmelzle. Robert J.—Freeport. HI. Sheehan. John H.—South Bend. Ind. Stroker. Cyril F.—New York City. Wallack, John N.—Brooklyn. N. Y. 
1938 

Number of members address knoitni ^ 631 Number contributors to EocJcnc Afruiorfo/ 31 Avtount contributed Rockne Memorial S234.00 
Bartnott, Edmund J.—New Rochelle. N. Y". Borgman, John T.—Evansville. Ind. 
Bowes, Richard J.—Kansas City, Mo. Callahan, Lt. Jos. A.—Brooklyn, N. Y. Doan, Joseph E.—jJma, Ohio. Elmore, George—South Bend. Ind. Foley, James R.—Trenton, Mich. Fox, Jr.. Harry—Geveland. Ohio. Funk, T. C—Anderson. Ind. Gorman, Thomas M.—Chicaso, III. Hackman, Robert H.—Cleveland Heighta, Ohio. Hitchcos, John W.—Rockford, III. Holtz, Robert—Elkhart, Ind. Kane, Owen N.—^Wisner, Nebr. Kerwin, L. J.—Cleveland, Heights, Ohio. lacey, John W.—Chicago, 111. Mazanec. R. J.—Cleveland, Ohio. Mulligan, Thomas P. Cambridge, Mass. Murdock, Bernard—Elkhart, Ind. O'Connell, M. J.—^Warrentown, Va. Plouff, John F.—Notre Dame, Ind. Puryear, Robert E.—Jonesboro, Ark. Quinlan, Daniel—Soperton, Wis. Schumacher. Garence P.—Mishawaka, Ind. Sherwood, Emery A.—Flint, Mich. Skoglund, Jr., Leonard H.—Chicago. HI. Sokerka, Andrew—^Passaic, N, J. Weaver, Rex E.—^Miamisbur?. Ohio. Williams, Harold A.—Baltimore, Md. Winter, Frank J.—LeSueur, Minn. Zerbst, John R.—St. Joseph. Mich. 
1939 

Number of membcra address krunon 567 Number contributors to Roclcne Memorial 2 ^imount contributed Rockne Memorial 56.00 
Wogoman, Shurl R.—Goshen, Ind. Braun, Joseph A.—^Detroit, Mich. 
1941 

Number contributors to Rockne Memorial 2 Amount contributed Rockne Memorial JIO.OO 
Kelly, J., Raymond—Detroit, Mich. Ryan, Wm. R.—Notre Dame. Ind. 
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE SECRETARY June I. 1938. io June I, 1939 
By James E. Armstrong, '25 
Out of the economic stress and the consequent return to fundamentals of the last few years has emerged a basic program of the Alumni Associa­tion. 
It is four-fold in character, and offers unlimited opportunities in each of its phases. It brings benefits of a broad character to Notre Dame and to the Association, but it also brings very specific benefits to the individual alumnus. 
It is my judgment, based now on 13 years of experience, that the Notre Dame Alumni Association is in the happy position of having places to go. We aren't dressed up yet, and whether we go or not depends on individual support. But the road, now, is open. Study the following general presen­tations of our Association program. Stop once in a while to consider the unlimited between-the-lines material. 
Then figure how you can go along, I'm sure the answers will make every­body happy. 
I. THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION: 
The Alumni Association, organized in 1868, has enjoyed a long but rather leisurely histor y of development, largely along social lines, with some financial stimulus added in the case of Old Students Hall, the First En­dowment Drive, the Living Endow­ment, and lately the Eockne Memorial and Nieuwland Funds. 
None of them, financially speaking, presents a particularly happy picture. But most of the trouble can be traced back to the instability of the organ­ization itself. 
Local Alumni Clubs have existed for more than 30 years. The Classes are as old as the iirst Class. But neither phase really began to function until the establishment of an Alumni Office and a full-time Aluiniii Seere­tari', during the 1922 to 192G period. So "we are not old in our weakness. And the depression which began in 1929 puts us in the position of having a just claim to an act of God in the weakness of our more recent con­tracts. 
However, that is all water over the dam, which has actualy been used in generating more power. 
We have used these years of bare existence to explore new iields with necessary caution. 
Results seem to indicate many pos­sibilities. So we begin a new era, not cold or blind, but pretty well informed as to its opportunities. 
The Clubs, holding their 10th Club Council this year, will launch a pro­gram in the Fall to standardize, basi­cally, on a new high plane. Club pro­grams genei-ally. 
Classes, as reflected in the ALUM­NUS news pages, are growing in ac­tivity and interest and numbers with the years. 
The Alumni Office has added per­sonnel, equipment, and projects, as well as many hundreds of alumni. Files are in better shape than ever before, if far from perfect. 
New break-downs of groups, by profession, by traditional association, by business possibilities, etc., are be­ing effected as rapidly as time and help permit. 
Service to individual alumni, to the Club officers and to the Classes, is in­creasing rapidly. 
The Association, as an organization, is an integral part of the University, and is better prepared than ever be­fore to promote the mutual interests of Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. 
The ALUMN'US is the voice of Notre 

Dame for all alumni.. This past year 
it was not sent during the Spring to 
members whose dues were not paid. 
On a business basis, and because of 
postal regulations, this was both a 
necessary and a just step. But in the 
light of "the expanded program of the 
Association, and in the light of the 
position of the ALUMNUS as the only 
source of contact between the Univer­
sity and alumni, it is hoped that a 
new plan will become eifective by Fall, 
so that all Notre Dame men will once 
more be aware of the rapid develop­
ment of their alma mater. 
II. PLACEMENT: 

Nothing will contribute to the suc­cess of Notre Dame men, and, in turn, Notre Dame and the -A.lumni Associa­tion, more than the successful placing of our graduates in positions of value for which they have been trained. 
To effect this more generally, the Alumni -Association has undertaken a Placement Service. 
Experience to date indicates a dual machinery necessary to the promotion of this program. 
The Alumni Office can work most effectively in placing the members of the graduating class each year. This can be done by utilizing the valuable contacts of the various deparhnents of the University, by enlisting the aid of alumni conected with lead­ing business and industrial concerns which employ alumni just out of col­lege, and by working with the Local Clubs in having the several cities ab­sorb at least the boys from their areas who are coming out of Notre Dame. 
The Association and the University departments have done a great deal already to arrange the local part of the program. Outside interest has l)een encouraging in the initial stages of the work, among both the Club and individual alumni. 
Placement will be the major objec­tive of the program in 1939-40. 
III. PRO.MOTION" : 
Partly to help the University, and partly to justify the University's help to the Association, the work of con­tacting prospective students, individ­ually and through high schools, was undertaken by the Alumni Office sev­eral years ago. 
There are several things that rec­ommend this as part of our regular program. Alumni are located in prac­tically every city from which the pres­ent University roster draws its boys. Many of them are the graduates of the preparatory schools of those cities, acquainted with the teaching staffs and the families of the communities. Contact is therefore first-hand among alumni. 
Secondly, alumni are interested in securing for Notre Dame the type of boy who will profit from Notre Dame, who will bring credit to Notre Dame in the community, and who will be a likely associate when he returns as a fellow alumnus after receiving his Notre Dame training. 
The alumni are a ready-made na­

tional sales organization for a Uni­
versit>' that could not cover its pres­
ent material sources •— some 1350 
preparatory schools in 48 States — 
with even a moderate sized profes­
sional staff of canvassers. 
And the service, to repeat a state­ment above, is of triple significance •— to the boy, to the University, and to alumni themselves whether indi­vidual in a community or in Clubs. 
IV. FU.VD-RAISI.VG: 

Notre Dame's present position in the academic world makes the prob­lem of fund raising no longer one of haphazard methods and simple loyalty and good will. The machinery must move in. 
Obviously, the Alumni Association is, as in the case of promotion, a ready-made sales organization. 
Notre Dame's growth has been phenomenal in the educational world. Academic prestige and physical plant have flourished with so small an en­dowment that the University' finan­cial structure looks like an inverted pyramid. Certain factors—the "flesh­and-blood endowment," income from athletics, etc. have permitted this. But permanence depends on strength­ening endowment, the ultimate base of all academic development. Look at any major institution of learning, and you will see a parallel financial development. 
The Rockne Memorial Campaign proved that financial returns can no longer come from loyalty and good will. There is no questioning these qualities of Notre Dame alumni, and of a much greater circle of friends. But fund-raising, for all purposes, in America has become mechanized to some extent. 
Therefore, the Alumni Association proposes to assist this logical and es­sential phase of perpetuating Notre Dame's progress by building up the Living Endowment among all alumni, and by constantly seeking for the University additional sources of gifts and bequests. 
•s « * 

From the four major projects out­lined above, the course of the Associa­tion is obviously one of serious and intensive development. 
It calls for complete membership support in every way; it assumes ac­tive and interested officers; it demands a chain of coordinated active Local Clubs across the country; and it will thrive most pleasantly under the per­sonal stimulus of active and informed Classes. 
TREASURER'S REPORT June I, 1938, to June I, 1939 

Bsilance on hand June 1. I93S S37J.I-t 
Receipts: 
Dues 9,817.30 
Advertisinc ALUMNUS 753.31 
Living Endowment _ „ 1.115.00 
Total receipts fiscal year... „S12,05S.95 
EKpenilitures: 
Ave Maria Pres?.., § 4,883.17 
Postoffice, Notre Dame. Ind 1,263.45 
Salaries . 4,580.00 
Office E.\'penses 1.059.00 
Total expenditures fiscal year... -.SU.785.62 
Balance on hand June i 1939_ ...S 273.33 
N. B.—There is a bill of some Sl.SOO still out­standing at the Ave Maria, the above pay­ment to the Ave Maria representing tlie carri'-over of a substanti:U deficit from the past several years. 
N. B. 2—Total receipts this year are not quite up to last year's tola}. Total expenses were also cut to a sm^l extent, but have been so consistently kept at a sub-normal stjitus dur­ing the past few years that the progmm of the Association has suffered some from the economy. 
N. B. 3—The Living Endowment contributions increased over last year's figures almost threefold, in spite of the Rockne Memorial campaign, and this increase augurs Well for the current year, when the contributions are not subject to conflict with other fund-rais­ing efforts. 
N. B. 4—The entire budget is too low in both income and expenditure for the four-fold pro­gram which tiie alumni and the University have combined in the Association. Cf. Sec­retary's Report. 










