The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
»<'^* 
^ -„ "^ ** — -^ — 
•>.' -. ?'*•'' * 



^e^5l^ fiAi^Wani^'-''>vM:M 
H Tf 
F
•A 
\^/Oi i iM 
MARCH . APRIL; 1950 
VOL. 28 . NO. 2 
i^^ 


Zhe Notre Dame Alumnus 
Vol. 28, No. 2 March-April, 1950 
James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor John P. Bums, '34, Managing Editor John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, Associate Editor 
Tiiis magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Postolfice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
LAETARE MEDAL 3 FOOTBALL TICKETS 7 BOOKS 9 UNIVERSITY TODAY 13 ATHLETICS 14 UNR^RSITi' MARRIAGE INSTITUTE 16 THE SHERMAN COLLECTION 18 
{Reprinted from the magazine "Notre Dame") 
ALUMNI CLUBS 19 ALUMNI FAMILY 22 ALUMNI CLASSES 23 REUNION SCHEDULE _... 35 CLASS SECRETARIES 35 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS 
pRANas WALLACE, '23„ .JrlonOTary President LEO B. WARD, '20 President REV. VINCENT P. BRENNAN, '32.. First Vice-President JOSEPH M . BOLAND, '27_ .Second Vice-President ARTHUR D . CRONIN, JR., '37.. Third Vice-President 
DIRECTORS TO 1951 
ARTHUR D . CRONIN, JR., '37_ _2632 Buhl Bldg., Detroit 26, Mich. LEO B. WARD, '20 .214 Rowan Bldg., Los Angeles 13, Calif. JOSEPH M . BOLAND, '27 Radio Station WSBT, South Bend, Ind. REV. VINCENT P. BRENNAN, '32 .408 Baldwin Rd., Pittsburgh 7, Pa. 
DIRECTORS TO 1952 
WILLIAM J. SHERRV, '2I_ S04 Kennedy Bldg., Tidsa, Okla. WILLIAM B. JONES, '28_ ..7102 Meadow Lane, Chery Chase 15, Md. R. CONROY SCOGGINS, '24 . 4S0 Humble Bldg., Houston, Tex. EDWARD J. BECKMAN, '16 _ 40 South Dr., Plandome, N. Y. 
DIRECTORS TO 1953 
JOHN Q. ADAMS, '26 -158 Lorraine, Upper Montclair, N. J. HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39 —327 Federal Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. RICHARD J. NASH, "23 6235 Kenmore, Chicago 23, 111. DR. MATTHEW WEIS, '22_ 73/9 Northmoor, St. Louis 5, Mo. 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25_ Director and Secretary 




Another National Crown 
1949 ALUMNI FUND ANALYSIS 
By Herman A. Zitt, '48 
From the annual report of the following schools you will note that Notre Dame was FIRST in Total Amount Contributed (even excluding the $1,000,­000 gift fi-om Mrs. Fisher) and FIRST in the Avei­age Alumnus Gift. Noti'e Dame was tied for SECOND in the Percentage of Alumni Contrib­uting. 
The Total Number Giving and the Total Amount conti'ibuted to Noti'e Dame included gifts from both Alumni and Friends of the Universitj'. However, the total amount did not include $407,­
305.70 conti'ibuted for Research Fellowships and Grants or Gifts of Equipment valued at $84,800^. 
In computing the Percentage of Alumni Con­tributing and the Average Alumnus Gift only gifts from alumni were included. 
UnK-creily Total Percemage Average or Number of Alumni Total Alumnus College Giving Contributing Amount Gift 
Boston College 1824 17% ? 25,254. ^16.00 
Chicago 6203 13 105,900. 16.66 
Dartmouth 14519 63 386,611. 26.63 
Duke 6541 28 154,709. 23.65 
Harvard 14486 35 326,819. 22.03 
Holy Cross 2319 25 45,534. 19.63 
M. L T. 9963 26 152,502. 1530 
Northwestern 7413 13 359,955. 10.00 
NOTRE DAME _ 8675 • 50 1,924,541. 67.34 
Princeton 11711 50 598,776. 46.77 
Yale 18725 34 . 508,765. 27.17 
Thus far in 1950 (March 23), 2100 Alumni* and Friends have contributed $190,000—$66,000 for the New Science Building and $124,000 for other buildings and projects. 
•* See Class Section for contributions by classes. 




e Alumnus 
General J. L. Collins Laetare Medalist 
United States Army Chief of Staff Announced By the University President as 1950 Recipient 
The medal for Gen. Collins is being specially designed as are all Laetare Medals, and will be presented at a time and date set by the recipient. 
General Joseph Lawton Collins, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army became on Jlar. 19 the fifth person since 1886 in the Armed Forces to be honored as re­cipient of the Laetare Medal. 
University President Father John J. Cavanaugh, c.S.C, in naming Gen. Col­lins, said: 
"General Collins has had a distin­guished career as a soldier, having been decorated for gallantry in both World Wars. His genius during the crisis of wartime, moreover, is equaled by his steadfast efforts in behalf of peace in the world today. 
"General Collins, throughout his lengthy sen'ice with the United States Government, has remained a shining example of the moral leadership which is one of the vital needs of the world." 
Military figures awarded the medal. 
besides Gen. Collins include Gen. John Newton, 1886; Gen. William R. Rose­crans, 1896; Adm. William S. Benson, 1917, and Lt. Gen. Hugh A. Drum, 1940. 
Boi'n in New Orleans, La., Gen. Col­lins was commissioned a second lieu­tenant on gi-aduation from West Point in 1917. By Febi-uary, 1942 he was a bi'igadier general and in May, 1942 he became a major genei-al. He was promoted to three-star rank in April, 1945 and became a full general when he was appointed chief of staff in 1949, to succeed Gen. Omar Nelson Bradley. 
When World War 11 broke out Gen. Collins was Assistant Secretary of the War Department General Staff. Less than a month following Pearl Harbor he was assigned a field, position as Chief of Staff of the 7th Army Corps. 
Successively he commanded the 2oth Division and 7th Army Corps, and was later Deputy Commanding General and Chief of Staff of Army Ground Forces. His decorations, both for valor and achievement include the Silver Star, Distinguished Service Medal (with two oak leaf clusters). Legion of Merit, Croix de Guerre with palm, and Com­panion Order of Bath. 
Last year's Laetare recipient was Irene Dunne, movie actress. Others receiving the medal in the past have been John McCormack, singer; Maurice Francis Egan, diplomat; G. Howland Shaw, Assistant Secretary of State; Frank C. Walker, former Postmaster Genei-al and Chief Justice Edward Douglas Whits. 
The fii'st Laetax-e medal was awai'ded in 1883 to historian John Gilmaiy Shea. And for the next 66 years the President of the University has annoimced from the pulpit in Sacred Heart Church, on Laetare Sunday, the person designated as that year's recipient. 
Selection of the Laetai'e Medalist is an 
exhaustive and fair process. Ten mem­
bers of the University Faculty, selected 
by the president comprise the Committee 
of Award. 
In the first meeting, names held over from the previous year are considered and new ones added to the list. Hera a vote is taken to select names for consid­eration. Additional information concern­ing proposed recipients is gathered be­fore the second meeting. 
Discussion precedes a balloting process in the second meeting which selects three from the group of proposed medalists. Then begins a delicate and necessarily confidential search for reliable informa­tion concerning the qualifications of the thi-ee, particularly with reference to their Catholicity. 
Finally, a third meeting of the Com­mitted of Awards determines the medal­ist. Absolute secrecy surrounds the dis­cussions. 

Announcing the Aword 
Father John J. Coranaugh 
ing field and established his own business 

27th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night as a public i-elations counselor. 
Success in Cincinnati led to an affilia­

Tells Prestige Story to the Nation tion with E. L. Bernays in New York, 
where outstanding work with the Philco 
Universal Notre Dame Night assumes added meaning this year as observations are scheduled in 105 cities in the United States and in six foreign countries. 
Highlighting each local observation will be a prominent alumnus or member of the University Administration or fac­ulty. This year's program is intended to show the great contribution Notre Dame men have made in their local communi­ties, through their leadership in civic, patriotic and church endeavors. 
Most of the local observances will be broadcast indi\'idually through a local i-adio outlet, while Ed Sullican's "Toast of the Town" television show gives a nationwide preview with an Easter Sun­day Columbia Broadcasting System pro­gram. 
The University Glee Club, under di­rection of Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, appears on the "Toast of the Town" show, as part of its Eastern tour. Pro­fessor Pedtke directs the Glee Club in several hymns and the Victory March. 
Father Cavanaugh also has a speaking engagement before the Notre Dame Club of Chicago Apr. 15, along with Dean Manion of the Law School. On Api'. 17 Father Cavanaugh will be the guest of the Baltimore Club. 
Athletic 'Director Ed Krause and Hugh Davore, now head coach at NYU will appear before the New Jersey Club and Dr. Lawrence Baldinger, Dean of Science, speaks Apr. 17 at Charleston, W.' Va. and Apr. 19 in Harrasburg. 
Father John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of public relations, has a speaking schedule that includes Memphis, New Orleans, St. Louis, and with Coach Frank Leahy, Omaha, Neb. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, c.s.c., ex­ecutive vice-president, will address the Notre Dame Club of Detroit and Father Louis Thornton, C.S.C., Registrar, will meet Notre Dame groups in Los Angeles and San Francisco. 
Dean of Commerce Dr. James E. Mc­Carthy will be guest of the Indianapolis Club and John N. CacWey, Jr., Founda­tion Staff Director, will speak at Sagi­naw, Mich, to the Saginaw River Valley Club. James A. Reyniers of LOBUM) is the featured speaker in Rochester, N. Y. 
-A.thtetic Trainer Hugh Bums is sched­uled for the St. Joseph (Ind.) Valley obsei-vance and Harvey Foster, head of the University Audio-Visual Department, will address the Wabash Valley Club in Lafayette, Ind., along with Father James Leahy, C.S.C., Prefect of Disci­pline. 

Father Charles Carey, c.s.c, of the University English Departemnt, will speak in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
This listing is not final, nor complete, as some arrangements were being made as this issue of the Alumnus ^^'«nt to press. A full coverage of Universal Notre Dame Night in the May-June Abivimis is planned. 
}f\fiUiam A. CastelUnl of Cincinnati Dies 
WILLIAM A. A. CASTELLINI, Ph.B. Journalism '22, Cincinnati, died sudden­ly in Columbus, Ohio, on Thursday, Feb­ruai-y 23, while attending a convention. 
Mr. Castellini 

At the time of his death. Bill was as­sociated with the Dinerman Advertising Agency as vice-president in charge of public relations. After graduation from Notre Dame, where he was a popular and very active undergraduate journalist and organization leader, he entered the produce business in Cincinnati with his father. In 1927 he entered the advei-tis­account resulted in his becoming director of public relations at the Franklin Insti­tute in Philadelphia, a post which he held from 1935 to 1940, when he returned to his home city. 
Bill's father died only a few months ago, but Bill is sur\'ived by his mother, Mrs. Eleanor Castellini, his wife, Mrs. Ruth McGregor Castellini, and three children, Mrs. Ruth Keefe, Miss Mona Castellini, and a son, Lt. William W. Bill also leaves four brothers, .A.lbei't, '24, James, Robert, and John. 
The above summary does not begin to tell the story of one of the truly great personalities among Notre Dame alumni. During his undergraduate years and through all the subsequent years of his careei', Bill Castellini had an active and a deep loyalty for Notre Dame, for the life it taught, for the teachers like Dr. Cooney whom he never ceased to visit. Wherever he was, Notre Dame and its interests were a part of his program, as was the unselfish Catholic life he exem­plified. Notre Dame publiicty and public relations benefitted immeasurably from the interest and the talents which he con­tributed to this in these fields at the University and in the Local Clubs. 
One of the latest manifestations of his interest was the securing of the patron­age of a client, Alvin Gould, for the work of the Natural Law Institute. There are undoubtedly many alumni whose qualities are comparable. It just happens that the Alumni Office, staffed by fellow journal­ists of the Cooney era in which Bill lived, knew the greatness of his nature and his work, particularly as it affected, and re­flected, Notre Dame. 


N.D. Student Awarded T950 Rhodes Scholarship 
Herman Hardy Hamilton, Jr., a senior at the University of Notre Dame from Montgomery, Ala., has been awarded a 1950 Rhodes Scholarship, according to an announcement from the Selection Committee of the Rhodes Scholarship Trust. 
Hamilton, who entered Notre Dame in 1946 as the Meehan Award Scholar from Alabama, will graduate this June with a bachelor of arts degree in political science, with magna cum laude honors. In October, he will enter Oxford Uni­versity, England, where he plans to study jurisprudence. 
Volume 28, No. 2, March-April, 1950 

Doofey Porficipofes In 
American Leaders Have Neglected God 
Chicago Youth Panel 
WILLIAM DOOLEY, '26, University 


President Tells Sons of St. Patrick 
Placement Director, participated in a 
panel "Helping Youth Get Started in the Labor Market" on March 25 at Lewis Towers, Chicago. This panel is part of the spring program of the Illi­nois Chapter of the International Associ­ation of Public Employment Services. 
Participants in the panel in addition to Mr. Dooley were Mr. A. L. Newsome, Johnson & Johnson; Mr. William Baer, American Can Company; Mr. Fae Cos­ner. Placement Counselor, Northwestern University. Mr. JAMES E. SANFORD, '15, Merchandising Manager of the Chi­cago Sun-Times acted as moderator. 
Ray Espenan Dies 
CHARLES R. ESPENAN, '50, died in St. Joseph Hospital, South Bend, Feb. 23 of injuries received in a fall Feb. 20 during a session of practice teaching at Central High School in South Bend. 
"He slarted the day vnlh God..." 
The quotation under his picture is from the University Religious Bulletin of Feb. 24, the day of his military funer­al from Sacred Heart Church. No more effective sermon can be pleached than the example of I'sligious manliness prac­ticed by Ray on the campus or football 
'field. The day of his fatal neck injury he began with Holy Communion in Dillon Hall. When hospital X-rays showed no hope for recovery, Ray was anointed and received Holy Viaticum. He remained fully conscious until four hours before death. "Indeed," the University Religious Bulletin said, "Ray need not be mourned. 
Our American leaders, through a neglect of God, have come "perilously near to surrendering our national soul;" according to the Rev. John J. Cav­anaugh, cs.C, President of the Uni­versity. 
Father Cavanaugh made this observa­tion in an address delivered March 17 at a dinner of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in Hotel Netherland Plaza in Cincinnati. 
"All of the nations have come to­gether to erect an international struc­ture so that peace may bless the earth," Father Cavanaugh reminded the St. Patrick Day gathering. "There has been talk about fighting tuberculosis, about reducing armaments • and estab­lishing a free-flow of the world's goods to this country and that. There has been talk about almost everything but God. 
"Are we now cowed into thinking that God has nothing to do with the success or failure of such a gigantic under­taking? Is there no American to para­phrase the words of Benjamin Frank­lin, spoken at one of the early consti­tutional conventions here in America: 'If a sparrow cannot fall from a tree without God's knowledge, how- can we hope to expect an international structure without God's aid?'" 
Father Cavanaugh referred to the United States as a "nation of religious origins and religious consciousness" and a "nation with a soul." 
Father Cavanaugh pointed to secu­larism—"a sheepish public neglect of God that shuts Him out of political, social, family, and intellectual life"— as the great heresy in the United States. 
"But, on the other hand, it has be­come a crime against the American Constitution as interpreted by the high­est court in this land to teach religion in the public school — to teach that God is the source of human liberty and the sanction of moral conduct. I be-
We who are left behind with our destiny unsealed are the ones to be sad. 
"No man could have died a better pre­pared death. Notre Dame man that he was he saw death coming, walking with certain strides toward him; yet he met death with a smile ,prayerfully, confi­dently, unafraid." 
lieve as most of you believe that when a nation is afraid to stand up for its beliefs, when it is no longer ready to fight for its soul, that nation becomes ready to surrender its soul. 
"The history of Ireland for seven cen­turies has been a grand protest written in blood against those who would make it choose between annihilation or sub­mission to force and subversive creeds. So bitter, so heroic, so unending has been the struggle that we who have never lost our independence might well appraise against the history of Ireland the value of our liberties as we sit with folded hands and silent lips watching the blood of American freedom drained from the veins of American youth. 
"If Ireland were called before the bar of the nations and asked to show reasons why she deserved the everlast­ing gratitude of the American people, she might well pass by the great armies of the patriotic dead who gave the last fruit of their devotion in every crisis that America might go on to live; she might pass over her dashing generals and her brilliant orators and her great leaders in every department of Amer­cian life and point to the faith in God which she has fosteired in this land. 
"She might say 'I based my claim for remembrance and gratitude upon call­ing you back to Him. I claim an hon­orable place among the people who make up the American nation for the spiritual vision I have given to your life in the sons and daughters I have sent to you. I ask you to see evidences of my contribution in the shining happy countenances of the people who live by faith; in the mothers with madonna hearts and madonna faces; in the young girls whose purity and honesty and loyalty are inspiring your youth; in the strong young men who love Christ and the Holy Mother of God and stand ready to die for the things they hold sacred." 
Following the address Father Cav­anaugh pi-esented to Mr. Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati businessman, the drapes used in the imveiling of a plaque in the Natural Law Institute Library at the University. 
The presentation was made to Mr. Gould during a reception for Father Cavanaugh by the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association of Greater Cincinnati, at the Netherlands Plaza Hotel. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

philosophical and ethical implications of 


University Symposium on Soviet Russia 
its actions. The Notre Dame Committee on International Belations is partially 

Draws Praise of G-Man J. Edgar Hoover 
financed by a grant from the Rockefeller 
J. Edgar Hoover, Director of the Fed­eral Bureau of Investigation, hails the results of the recent Symposium on So­viet Kussia held at the University of Notre Dame as a valuable contribution "to every segment of our American so­ciety." 
Mr. Hoover, who was unable to accept an invitation to attend the Symposium personally, assigned a special FBI agent to attend in his behalf. He expressed his praise of the Notre Dame Symposium in a letter to the Kev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame. 
"There is a real need in the academic world to go forth to study and analyze, calmly and objectively, Soviet ideology and its Communist expression here in the United States," Mr. Hoover wrote Father Cavanaugh. "Your Symposium at Notre Dame helps to meet this need. Such a Symposium . . . helps not only to expose the errors of Communist thinking and the viciousness of Communist practices, but it also reveals the nature of the so­cial framework in which it developed." 
The FBI director obsen'ed that the Notre Dame Symposium can "render a real service to the country" by helping competent scholars "to penetrate to the very core of the Communist problem." 
"In the fullness of their understand­ing, they can lay bare the basic terms of this problem," Mr. Hoo^ner continued. 
'•'They can continue to enlarge their knowledge of this cancerous growth on society just as doctors continue to en­large their knowledge of the cancerous g^rowth on the human body.. They can transmit their knowledge of the malig­nancy and dangei3 of Communism to the people. Let the people know the truth of it. 
"Possession of the truth is the very life of a democracy. Democracy trembles not before knowledge of truth, but be­fore ignorance of it. Democracy wilts not before discussion, but before silence. Democracy crumbles not before thought, but before thoughtlessness. 
"The fruits of your Symposium, there­fore, are not of value to the academic world alone, but to every segment of our American society. Speaking in behalf of law enforcement, I can say that every strand of knowledge developed by snch Symposiums, which illumintes the false­ness of Communism, is not only a service to law enforcement, but to the American people which law enforcement serves." 
The Notre Dame Symposium, which featured eight speakers well-versed with the innerworkings of Soviet Russia, was conducted under the auspices of the Com­mittee on International Belations at the University, in order to obtain a deeper understanding of the nature and policies of the Soviet Union by bringing out the 
MOTOR CITY MATTERS 
At the opening of the Notre Dame Foundation office in Detroit various posnbilitias wore discussed by (1 to r): Bev. John H. Murphy, CJS.C, Vice-President in charge of Public Bala­tions; Arthur D. Cronin. 7r.. Chairman oi the Detroit Foundation committee, and Thomas J. Moran, Jr., President oi the Notre Dame Alumni Club in Detroit 
Foundation. 


NEW QUARTERLY 

All phases of the work of chaplains and religious assistants in lay Catholic Action in the United States will be treat­ed in "Anima," new quarterly bulletin published at the University. 
The new quarterly, intended as an ex­change of techniques and information between the various fields of Catholic Action, is edited by the Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C, Professor of'Religion and chaplain of student Catholic Action. 
"Arama" will include discussion of re­ligious formation, education, documenta­tion and the growth of the lay move­ment in the United States. Also featur­ed will be reprints of pertinent articles from European publications. 
Other members of the editorial staff, in addition to Father Putz, are Sister Agnes Cecilia, C.S.C, Head of the De­partment of Education at St. Mary's College; Sister Mary Ruth, FSPA, of St. Angela's Academy, Carroll, Iowa; and Rev. 'William Quinn, Diocesan Director of Specialized Catholic Action for Chi­cago. 
Doctorate at CAicogo U. Granted to Fr, Fitigerald 
Reverend Mark J. Fitzgerald, c.s.c, Professor of Economics at Notre Dame, received the degree of Doctor of Philos­ophy recently at the Winter Convoca­tion of the University of Chicago where from 1946 to 1948 he majored in the fields of Economic Regulation and In­dustrial Relations. 
Father Fitzgerald has just completed a dissertation study of the legal opin­ions of Justice Reed of the Supreme Court in the areas of economic and labor legislation. This study is one of a series of monographs dealing with the present Court and social legislation. 
In 1946 for his work on cases dealing with labor arbitration as a public panel member for the Chicago Regional War Labor Board, Father Fitzgzerald was cited by the United States Government "in recognition of the meritorious serv­ice performed .. . in the furtherance of the work of the National War Labor Board during World War IL" Before entering the Congregation of Holy Cross Father Fitzgerald obtained his bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame and a master's degree from Harvard University. 
Volume 28, No. 2, March-April, 1950 

New Summer School 
Alumni Football Ticket Situation 
South of the Border 
The University will operate two sum­Outlined by Cahill (or 1950 Games mer schools this year, more than 1700 miles apart. 
BY ROBERT M. CAHIU. '34. FootboO KdMl Maaagar 
Besides the usual summer session on the campus from June 19 to August 11, which features many of the same sub­jects taught during the reg^ular semes­ters, the University will sponsor a spe­cial curriculum in Latin-American cul­ture at Mexico City, from June 19 to August 25. 
Held in cooperation with Mexico City College, the special summer session is in its fourth year of providing courses in the Spanish language within the authentic atmosphere of real Mexican life. The students, who may obtain room and board in private homes near the college, will also have an opportu­nity to study Spam'sh-American litera­ture, civilization and history. 
Up to nine semester hours of credit may be earned during the session, for which the GI Bill can be used. Room and board costs about $10 a week in American money, while the tuition fee for the 10-week program is $100. 
The Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., of Department of Modem Languages, will act as director of the Mexican summer session. Applications and queries should be addressed to Professor Walter M. Langford, head of the Department of Modem Languages. 
Knights Commoncfer/ ot St, Gregory for Ransdell 
Papal recognition of nearly three-quarters of a century of self-dedication to religious and civic service came last month to Joseph E. Ransdell in Lake Providence, La., with his investiture as a Knight Commander of St. Gregory. 
Mr. Ransdell, a former U. S. Sena­tor and Congressman, received an hon­ary Ll.D. degree from the University in 1914. Among the many projects for which he militated are the world-fa­mous leprosium at Carville, La., and the National Institute of Health. 
His Excellency, Bishop Charles P. Greco, of Alexandria, made the'formal investiture at St. Patrick's School Audi­torium, East Carroll, La. The Asso­ciated Catholic Men's Clubs of North­east Louisiana gathered for the cere­monies, to pay tribute to Mr. Rans­dell's lifetime of service and sacrifice for humanity. 
Your Alumni Board, at its January meeting reaffirmed the 1949 football ticket regulations for alumni, with but few changes, and those are mechanical in nature . The January-February Alumnus devoted considerable space to the matter, and here, restated, are the main points in ticket distribution for 1950. 
1.
 Advance sale to Alumni will OPEN JUNE 20 and CLOSE JULY 15. Pre­viously Alumni sale opened on July 1. 

2.
 Alumni contributors to the Seventh Annual Alumni Fund for 1949, plus reli­gious and honorary degree holders, will be eligible for 1950 alumni order forms. Beginning last year, you will recall that the contribution period was placed on a year-ahead basis. If you contribtued at any time during 1949 you are automati­cally eligible for 1950 priority. 


1950 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 

Sept. 30—North Carolina at ND 
Oct. 7—^Purdue at Notre Dome 
Oct. 14—^Tulane at New Orleans 
Oct 21—^Indiana at Bloomington 
Oct 28—AGchigon State at ND Nov. 4—Navy at Cleveland Nov. 11—Pittsburgh at Cleveland Nov. 18—^lowa at Iowa City Dec. 2—So. California at L. A. 
To include the Class of 1950 (there are about 1200 of them, incidentally) we have a deadline of June 4, 1950 (Com­mencement) for contributions from 1950 graduates. Contributions made at any time during 1950 will qualify the alum­nus for 1951. 
3. Alumni application blanks will be mailed to contributors as stated above prior to June 20th. These blanks will offer two tickets for all games, both home and away, and will be honored until July 15th, OR UNTIL THE TICK­ET SUPPLY IS EXHAUSTED. 
Our Alumni Association has reached such membership that outright guaran­tee of tickets is no longer jiossible. We have now about 17,000 members, of which the Alumni Secretary estimates 10,000 will be qualiefid for ticket prior­ity under Regulation 2 above. Obvious­ly, this potential exceeds our ticket sap-
ply for all away-from-home games 
(Navy at Cleveland will be a "hon^ 
game). Because of our large student 
body, concessions to parents, 15,000 se«­
son ticket holders. University adminis­
trative needs, monogram section, etc, the 
alumni potential creates a situation for 
our home games that is almost as acute. 
Last year, for example, alninniiOiders 
for our Southern California .game in 
Notre Dame Stadium were so heavy that 
remaining .tickets offered to the general 
pubUc lasted ONLY ONE DAY. The 
general public sale for that game opened 
and closed on August first. 
Nevertheless, in practice, advance sale to contributing alumni is still tatamonnt to a ticket guarantee; but our '49 exper­ience proved that outright guarantee is simply no longer workable. Part of the difficulty stemmed from the geograpliieal swapping that occurred among the guar­anteed orders. 
Hence, i>artially because of this trad­ing, but even more so because we feel that most alumni seem to think it im-' practicable, the Alumni order form will not require the signatures of alumni cer­tifying as to personal use. Nevertheless, the aliuini application form itself must be vsed by the alumnus to whom ad­dressed. Thus both the guarantee and personal use requirement wiU be dis­carded for 1950. 
4. General-use applications will be forwarded to ALL alumni, contributing and non-contributing, about July 1. These forms may be used for ordering additional tickets, are transferable, bat carry no priority. They are effective only AFTER Alumni sale closes July 15, if any tickets remain. Even so, these general forms will be put in the hands of alumni about two weeks before they wiU be available to the public. 
Thus even the non-contributing alum­nus is given an adviuitage over the pub­
lic. For a' game such as Navy at Cleve­land, for example, this is no small ad­vantage, in view of^ublic inquiries now piling up in this otRee. 
5. General public sale will open, as usual, on August 1. Many alumni can save themselves time and embarrassment by requesting the ticket office to send general public order forms directly to friends, business associates, etc. 



BOOKS AND ALUMNI 
CHARLES N. HECKELMANN, '34. President of the Catholic Writers' Guild of America presenting gold books to 1949 winners of Golden Book Awards at the Guild's annnol dinner in New York. Holding awards are (1 to r) Leo Brady, author oi "The Edge of Doom." judged best in the fiction field; Robert Giroux. of Harcourt-Brace Publishing Co.. representing Trappist Thomas Merton. author of the best non-fiction work, "SeTen Storey Mountain"; and Dietrich Von Kldebrand, who wrote "Transformation in Christ." best in the religious field. At extreme left is Charles S. Strong, vice-president of the CathoHc Writers' guild and extreme right, John L. Nanovic, '30, Chairman of the Awards committee. 
Writers Conference Staff Ready for June 26 Session 
Miss Caroline Gordon and J. F. Pow­ers, two prominent modem writers, have been added to the faculty of the second annual Writers' Conference to be held June 26 to July 1 at the University. 
Miss Gordon, who will join the staff of the novel workshop at the Conference, is noted as a novelist, critic and short story writer. Among her recent works are "The Women on the Porch" and "The Forest of the South." 
One of the best known of contempor­ary short story authors, Mr. Powers will be a member of the staff of the short fiction workshop of the Conference. His recent collection of short stories, "The Prince of Darkness," has been widely ac­claimed by critics. 
Miss Gordon and Mr. Powers complete the faculty for the conference. Other members of the "staff, all members of the Department of English, include the Eev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C, Head of the De­partment of English, who is a short story writer, critic and anthologist; Pro­fessor John Frederick Nims, one-time ed­itor of "Poetry" and author of poems which have appeared in national maga­
zines; Professor Richard Sullivan, auth­or of three full-length novels as well as numerous short stories; and Professor John T. Frederick, conductor for seven years of the program "Of Men and Books" over the Columbia Broadcasting System, and editor of "The Midland" for twenty years. 
Details on the week-long conference may be obtained by writing to Professor Thomas E. Cassidy, of the Department of English, who is director of the Con­ference. 


Fellowship Aid Given 255 Graduate Students 
A total ot 255 students, more than one-half of the graduate enrollment, currently are on the roster of appoint­ments of the Graduate School at the University of Notre Dame, according to an announcement by the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, Dean of the Notre Dame Graduate School. 
Father Moore, in making the an­

nouncement, pointed out that in terms 
of dollars these appointments amount to 
approximately $120,000 for the academic 
semester, or nearly a quarter of a mil­
lion dollars for the schoolyear. 
Of the total number of appointments, according to Father Moore, 131 are Teaching Fellowships. The graduate teaching fellows assist in the under­graduate instruction in the several departments. 
Forty-two are appointments to re­search on government scientific pro­grams at Notre Dame. These forty-two do not include the six students at Notre Dame wiio hold fellowships from the Atomic Energy Commission.' 
Others include endowed and indus­trial fellowships, research and technical assistantships, as well as grants in aid and employment services. 
Tho Notre Dame Alumnus 

Social >l<fininisfrofors fo Meet in 4-Week Workshop 
A four-week Workshop in Catholic School Administration will be held from June 27 to July 25 at the University, it was anounced recently by the Rev. How­ard Kenna, C.s.C., Vice-President in Charge of Academic Affairs. 
Purpose of the Workshop, which will be sponsored by the Department of Edu­cation, is to help solve common school problems through mutual discussion among 'educators and by an organized series of specialized lectures in various fields of school administration. Specific direction of the Workshop program will depend primarily upon the interests and experiences of the teachers enrolled. 
Director of the Workshop will be Thomas J. Quirk, Principal of Hart­ford Public High School in Hartford, Conn. Included among the visiting lec­turers who will be on the faculty of the Workshop are: 

Rt. Rev. Carroll F. Deady, Superinten­dent of Schools of the Archdiocese of Detroit, Mich.; Sister M. Patricia, C.S.J., Regional Supervisor of Schools in the Diocese of Cleveland, O.; Brother Magel­la Hegarty, C.S.C., of St. Edward's Uni­versity, Austin, Tex.; Sister M. Louise, O.S.U., of Mary Manse College, Toledo, O,; Rev. William E. McManus, Assistant Director of the Depai-tment of Education of the National Catholic Welfare Confer­ence, Washington, D. C ; Sister Mary Clare, C.S.C., Supervisor of Schools of the Midwestern Province, Sisters of the Holy Cross; and Rev. John M. Voelker, Princi­pal of Catholic Memorial High School, Waukesha, Wis. 
The Workshop also will include ten mambers of the University faculty. These are: Dr. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, Head of the Department of Education; Rev. William F. Cunningham, cs.c. Pro­fessor of Education; Dr. Leo F. Kuntz, Professor of Education; Lawrence F. Robinson, Assistant Professor of Educa­tion; Dr. John A. Scannell, Head of the Department of Physical Education; John 
H. O'Neill, Assistant Professor of Edu­cation; Paul R. Byrne, University Li­brarian; Brother Ehno Bransby, cs.c . Instructor in Education; Francis W. Kervick, Head of the Department of Architecture; and Dr. Willis D. Nutting, Associate Professor of History. 
Admission to the Workshop will be limited, probably to those who wish to concentrate on some definite problem or project Applications should be sent to the Registrar before May 20. 
Volume 28, No. 2, March-April, 1950 


Books 
GOD IN OUR HOUSE, by Joseph A. Breig, '28; America Press: $2.50. 
Alumni of the middle 1920's recall Joe Breig as one of the most gifted student writers of his era, as a winner, even then, of prizes for fiction and as news editor and editor-in-chief of the SCHOLASTIC. 
For many years a newspaperman, Joe is now assistant managing editor of The Catholic Universe Bulletin in Cleve­land, generally 'applauded as one of the top Catholic papers of the country. And he all through the years has -writ­ten \videly outside the newspaper field, contributing to many magazines. 
For America Joe has lately written each week a column called "The Word," a weekly commentary on the Gospels. These columns have now been gathered into the one popular volume under the title, "God in Our House." 
This is a book of popular theology, easily readable by both teen-agers and adults because the author uses the eyes of the children for a fresh view of the Gospels and applies the example of Christ to modem family life. The book is actually a collection of conversations, half imaginary and half actual, between Joe Breig and his children. Reading it is a new, different and inspiring experi­ence.—^W.R.D. 
Seven members of the faculty at Notre Dame have contributed essays to the American Civilization, a new book published in Belgium. Edited and trans­lated into French by philosopher Dr. Yves Simon, the book presents a crit­ical analysis of modem U. S. culture. 
Dr. Simon, who now teaches at the University of Chicago, spent ten years as a Professor of Philosophy at Notre Dame after he came to the United States from France in 1938. It was during this period that he compiled the new work. 
Among the specialists who have con­tributed to Professor Simon's book are Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., Notre Dame Professor of Philosophy, who discusses "Rural Life in the United States"; Dr. Willis D. Nutting, Professor of History, who writes on "Family Life," and Pro­fessor John H. Sheehan, of the Depart­ment of Economics, who treats "The Economic System." 
Other chapters in the new volume in­clude "Internal Politics," by Dr. Mat­thew A. Fitzsimons, Professor of His­tory; "Foreign Affairs," by Dr. Walde­mar Gurian, Chairman of the Notre Dame Committee on International Re­lations; "The Religious Situation," by Dr. Aaron I. Abell, Professor of His­tory, and "American and World Lit­erature," by Professor Frank J. O'Mal­ley, of the Department of English. An­other section of "Education" was writ­ten by Dr. Alvan S. Ryan, a former instructor in English and mathematics at Notre Dame. 
BIG LEAGUE ROOKIE, by Fi-ancis Wallace, '23; Westminster Press; $2.50. 
FRANCIS WALLACE, '23, honorary Alumni president, beat the big league opening dates with an April 3 publica­tion of his most recent fiction work, "Big League Rookie," a dramatic story of a spring training camp and the rookies who struggle there. 
"Big League Rookie" gives its read­ers an inside look at the hopes and heartbreaks, the struggles and strife experienced by a raw recruit deter­mined to make a playing position on a major league team. 
Mr. Wallace's facility for reality of dialogue and colorful narration keeps his rookie moving at a hustled pace for 186 pages and leaves him, sweating and successful, a major league shortstop on opening day. 
Renowned for his "Pigskin Preview" which appears annually in the Saturday Evening Post, Mr. Wallace has written 12 books, six of which have been made into movies. He retired this year as Alumni president and was named hon­orary president at a January Alumni Board meeting. 
Historian fo Study British Govenment 
Dr. Matthew A. Fitzsimons, profes­sor of History, has left to gather first­hand data on the foreign policy of the Labor government in England. 
Dr. Fitzsimons' tour, arranged in co­operation with the Notre Dame Com­mittee on International Relations, will end in August. Dr. Fitzsimons also will conduct researdi on 17th century English historians, using the facilities of the British Museum and the Cam­bridge University Library. 
The result of his study of Socialism in England'will be the subject of sev­eral lectureis at Notre Dame next autumn. His findings are also to be in­cluded in a series of articles for the Review of Politics, a quarterly maga­zine published at the University. 
Dr. Fitzsimons joined the faculty in 1937. Before that, he studied at Colom­bia University and spent two years in research at Oxford University, England. 
CINCINNATI CLUB PRESENTS SCHOLARSHIP 
.William A. Giale. Jr^ beaaurer ol th* Sdia?aialiip Ci»nmitl«» qi tha Giaolar Gndnaali Club, presenting Father Caranough with o SZOOO ehack Olbeis in the pictme or* (I«H to right). Louia Bichter, Edward T. Dixon. Mr. Graia. Father Caranongh. Albeit D. CaateUioi. J. Walter IKenaber and Jeaaph S. Mdniaaay. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 




CiMrity, Not H-Bomb Must Rule World 
World peac3 depends, not on Allied possession of the hydrogen bomb, but on the simple fulfillment of Christ's command to love one another as broth­ers, according- to the Rev. Dr. John A. O'Brien, author and lecturer at the University. 
In an address before the faculty and student body of Wabash College March 6, Father O'Brien declared that failure to obey this commandment is a basic cause of the suspicion, ill-will and hatred that poisons relations among in­dividuals and nations. 
"The tragedy of modem civilization is that we have used the findings of modem science to implement our hatreds instead of our kindliness and love," he said. 

Our churches, schools, and homes must work to destroy the dangerous, seeds of hate. Father O'Brien declared. Violation of the Christian principles of good-will also leads to internal disorder, he said. 
"The frictions between grroups of dif­ferent races, colors and creeds — as well as between nations — can be removed through conferences to which both par­ties bring understanding and good-will," he concluded. "Without these qualities, no problem can ever be solved." 


Notre Dame NROTC National Rifle Champs 
The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame 

— famed for "bullet passes" during the football season — seem to be just as effective when they switch to real am­munition in the annual nationwide EOTC rifle contests. 
For the second year in a row, the Naval Resei-ve Officers Ti-aining Corps unit at the University has placed first in the William Randolph Hearst Naval ROTO Rifle Competition. And for the second time in as many years, Notre Dame junior Donald J. Murphy, of Hawthorne, N. J., has topped the field in individual marksmanship. 
Firing a splintering 924 out of 1000, the Irish quintet nosed out the Univer­sity of Washington by three points to retain the national title. Besides Mur­phy, the squad of Notre Dame riflemen included James W. Hartman, of Van­derlip, W. Va.; Francis G. Brickspn, of San Antonio, Texas; William K. Hayden III, of Highland Park, Mich., and Wayne A. Six, of Quincy, 111. 
The 1949 and 1950 national champs were coached by Capt. John M. Daly, 

U.S.M.C. Commanding officer of the Notre Dame ROTC group is Capt. T. F. Conley, Jr., U.S.N. 
Youth Counselling Bureau Established 
Cooperation is the keynote in the 
unique parochial school counseling bu­
reau established this week at the Univer­
sity. 
Staffed by graduate students in the 
Correctional Administration curriculum, 
the Bureau of Youth Counseling is in­
tended to serve as liaison between the 
Catholic school and home in cases where 
social case work and counseling are 
necessai-y. It will be operated as a joint 
enterprise of the University and the 
South Bend (Ind.) clergy. 
Director of the new program will be Professor Hugh P. O'Brien, of the De­partment of Sociology. He will be assist­ed by John H. O'Neill, Assistant Profes­sor of Education, who will supervise intelligence, aptitude, personality and in­terest testing for the bureau. 
According to Professor O'Brien, the bureau workers will study the cases of individual "problem children" and g^i'de them in adjustment to normal school and community life. Cases will be accepted from the authorities at member schools, from the Juvenile Division of the Pro­bate Court, from the Bureau of Pupil Personnel of the School City, or from any other similar city social agency. 

"Last year the National Council of Bishops expressed growing concern at the widening split between the Catholic School and the Catholic home," Profes­sor O'Brien explains. "Our new program is simply one concrete effort to follow their recommendations in healing this gap. The agency here will operate as a pilot program in testing and evaluating different methods of treatment in pupil behavior problems." 
The specific objectives of the Youth Counseling Bureau were listed by Mon­signor John S. Sabo, dean of the South Bend clergy,- as follows: 
1) to serve as the case work agency for participating parochial schools. 
2) to make available to all parochial school pupils those specialized commun­ity services established for all children of the community. 
3) to accept cases referred to it by other social agencies; and 
4) through study and research to fur­ther Catholic education and bridge the gap between Catholic home and school. 
The program is the result of confer­ences begun last August. It will also serve as a training ground for Notre Dame graduate students who intend to follow a career in youth correction or 
Top. (1 to r): Hartman, Captain Dcdy, Muiphy, Hayden and protective agencies associated with Sgt Sova; bottom, (1 to r): Six, Brickson. school systems. 
Volume 28, No. 2, March-April, 1950 U 
be held on the campus June 10, imme­

$25,000 FOR LOBUND CANCER WORK 
diately preceding^ the Alumni Associa­
Irving Berlin presenting Professor James 
A. Beyniers, director of LOBDNO with a check from the Damon Runyon Memorial Cancer Research Fund. The check, for $25,000 will he used in LOBDND'S Germ-Free research project, begun by Mr. Reyniers in 1928. LOBUND (Laboratories 
Russians Still Want 
World Revofufion 
Dr. Sergius Yakobson, government specialist on Soviet affairs, described as a "dangerous illusion" the idea that So­viet Russia has abandonded the dream of world revolution, in a series of lec­tures over the weekend at the University. 
Dr. Yakobson delivered three lectures at Notre Dame under the auspices of the Committee on International Relations. The University committee, partially fi­nanced by a grant from ths Rockefeller Foundation, studies the inter-effects of religion, democracy and international order. 
Dr. Yakobson, who is Chief of the Foreign Affairs Section of the Legisla­tive Reference Service at the Library of Congress, told his audience that "as the Soviet Rulers failed to turn Russians into Communists, they have directed their propaganda efforts toward the na­tional pride of the Russian people and have instilled in them the desire for na­tional self-assertion." 
Stressing that Soviet Russia has not abandoned her world revolution hopes in favor of evolving along purely nation­of Bacteriology, University of Notie Dame) is the one project of its kind in the world, and its volue as a research tool is so recognized that Professor Reyniers has had lo set up a rigid system of priorities (or requests for research from outside agencies. 
al lines, Dr. Yakobson observed that "it also would be wrong to believe that the idea of world revolution, as pui'sued to­day by the Soviet leaders, is no longer an end in itself, but only an adjunct of Soviet imperialist policy. 
"In spite of all the nationalism dis­played today in Russia, the idea of world revolution has not only been abandoned but, on the contrary, remains axiomatic with the men in the Kremlin," accord­ing to Dr. Yakobson. 
• • • ' 


New Law Directory Promised in May 
Material for the Legal Directoi-y of members of the Notre Dame Law Asso­ciation have been delivered to the print­ers and it appears that the deadline for May distribution will be met. The response to the membership drive so exceeded all estimates that an increase of 150% over 1949 has been effected with the result that more than 500 individual practitioners will be listed in the forthcoming Directory. 
Plans for the two social highlights.of the Association program are in an ad­vanced stage. The annual complimen­tary cocktail party for members will 
tion Banquet. One hundred and fifty 
attended last year and with the in­
crease in membership it is estimated 
that over 200 will he on hand daring 
this Reunion week-«id. 
Bill Jones, Chairman of the luncheon to be held during the proceedingrs of the American Bar Association conven­tion in Washington this September, has been informed that hotel accommoda­tions must be procured through Mrs. Olive Richer, Ebcecutive Secretary, A.B.A., 1140 N. Dearborn St, Chi­cago 10, IlL 
Bill suggests the Carleton Hotel which is across from the Statler, one of the headquarters for the convention. 
One of the inddoital activities of the Association—the expansion of law-library facilities—has commenced to bear fruit. Leo Ward, President of the Alumni Association and a director of the Law Association, has donated a complete set of California annotated statutes and Session Laws to the Law School. Anyone interested in this project may contact the University law librarian. 

New Booirfef Explains 
Inquisition Purpose 
"The Truth About the Inquisition," a 64-page booklet by the Rev. Dr. John 
A. O'Brien, author and lecturer at the University, has just been published by the Paulist Press of New York. 
Refuting recent attacks on the Cath­olic Church's attitude toward religions freedom, the study stresses the need for tolerance by civil authority, as long as the public welfare and governmental integrity are not threatened. 
According to Father O'Brien, "The Inquisition was the answer of the Church and State, working as a unit, to attacks threatening the existence of both. It served a measure of useful­ness in its day, but that day has passed forever." 
The gradual separation of spiritual and secular functions and authority has fostered new ideas about freedom of conscience and religious liberty, he said. Thus, institutions like the In­quisition have been outmoded. 
"Any force or agency that would attack or threaten the liberty of con­science of the humblest citizen .. . be he Protestant, Jew or non-believer^ would find every Catholic rallied in his defense," Father O'Brien added. "What we need desperately is to know one another better, and to enlarge our areas of understanding, respect, sympathy and trust." 




FIFTEEN G-MEN AND NOT A MACHINE GUN SHOWING 
Fifteen FBI special agents relaxing aiter the NYU basketball game in New York at T ts S ^r's Restaurant. Special Agent in Charge Edward Schiedt (seated, center), a North Carolina graduate, ad­dressed the group on "The FBI and Notre Dame." This picture represents the Alumni who are stationed in the New York Office. There are all together 93 Notre Dame Alumni in the FBL 
Top row (I to r), Oliver H. Hunter ID, '43; James J. Bogers, '40; Thomas J. Min­ogue, 40; John F. Callaghan, '39; Bobert 
Less H-Bomb Secrecy, Dr. Burton Asks 
The United States must build the hydrogen bomb, but it should also ease security restrictions on basic atomic energy data, according to Dr. Milton Burton, director of the University Ra­diation Chemistry Project. 
"Even if there were no possibility of war, it might be necessary to build a hydrogen bomb to extend our knowl­edge of nuclear forces," Dr. Burton <ieclared in an interview over Radio Station WHOT in South Bend. 
Experimental knowledge of the power released through "atomic fusion" (the principle of the H-bomb) would in­crease our peace-time potential tre­mendously. Dr. Burton believes. A hydrogen bomb might be an expensive but worthwhile short-cut to that knowl­edge. 
Although he believes that recent se­curity leaks — like the British atom-scientist. Dr. Fuchs, who has admitted giving atomic secrets to Russia — could prove disastrous to this country in an­other war. Dr. Burton asked for less federal secrecy about basic atomic en­ergy information. Present security measures, he feels, hamper our own scientists from making progress, not only toward the bomb but toward a host of legitimate peaceful objectives. 
"Since we have many more scientists than do our potential enemies, it is we who suffer most by these restrictions," he explained. 
"Features pertaining to bombs must continue to be kept secret — perhaps in a vain effort to maintain our security a little longer. All other atomic in­formation should be freely published so that we may promote full scale prog­ress at home. 
"In the long run, progress and peace are our only hopes. . . . Ultimately, enduring peace can only result from world government. The attainment of that objective is the job of all the people, not merely of the scientist." 
FouncfoffOfi Gets Detroit Office 
Approximately 200 psople including prominent industrialists, business and professional leaders, as well as repre­sentatives from the press, radio, and television, attended the formal opening of a Notre Dame Foundation office in Detroit, recently. 
O. Kuehl. '48; Anthony I. Moloney. Jr., '43; Bichard F. Doyle. '28; John J. Doermer, '40: Vmiiam J. Tracy. '43; Dennis F. Shea. '38; Lawrence H. Bracken, '41. Seated (I to r). Edward F. Monahan. '44; Albert 
J. Touhy, '31: Mr. Schiedt- WiUiam M. Whelan. '34; Frederick C. Doutel, '43. 
Office space and facilities were donat­ed by C. MAKCELLUS VERBIEST, '20, Foundation committeeman. The Detroit 36-man Committee, composed of influen­tial alumni and non-alumni, is headed by ARTHUR D. CRONIN, JR., '37, Chairman, and Hugh Dean, Vice-presi­dent in charge of Manufacturing at General Motors Corp., Co-Chairman. 
Two other offices, in New York and Chicago, had previously been established by the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Those from Notre Dame in attend­ance, included: Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C, James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary and Executive Vice-Chairman of the Foundation; and John N. Cack­ley, Jr., of the Foundation campus staff. 
Pictured (opposite page, center) is Dr. 

V. Prelog, 19S0 Spring BcdIy Lecturer in Chemistry at the University. Dr. Prelog is Professor of organic chemistry at Fed­eral Institute of Techno'ogy, Zurich, Swit­zerland. 
VWth Dr. Prelog, at a reception follow­ing the lecture are (left to right). Dr. Charles C. Price, heod of the department of chemistry; Father Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the Universiyt: Dr. Paul L. Bush, of the 
U. S. Bubber Co„ and Dr. Alfred H. Free, of Mies Loboratories, Elkhart, Ind. 
Volume 28, No. 2, March-April, 1950 



THE UNIVERSITY TODA¥%5^^^^ 
Dr. Bernard Waldman, head of the 

University Nuclear Physics Department, 
was called as an expert for testimony 
in Chicago Federal Court hy the Chi­
cago Federal District Attorney. 
Dr. Waldman testified in a trial he-

fore Federal Judge Walter J. Labuy, 
on the claimed radioactive properties of 
a "magic spike." 
JOHN J. DONAHOE, Jr., '49, died March 26 in St. Joseph Hospital in South Bend five days after receiving a head injury playing handball on the campus. 
Mr. Donahoe, a law junior received an A.B. degree from the University in June, 1949, He was 22 years old. 
He was the second student to die of injuries in recent weeks. Ray Espenan died Feb. 23 from injuries suffered dur­ing a gymnastic exhibition. 
Mr. Donahoe was the son of Mr. and Mrs. John J. Donahoe, Sr., of 108 S. East Ave., Oak Park, 111. A brother, Thomas, 14, also survives. Funeral services were held in St. Edmund's Church Oak Park, March 29. Fathers Edmund Murray, c.s.C, Philip Schaerf, C.s.c, and Alfred Mendez, c.s.c, repre­sented the University. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, cs.c, was celebrant of the funeral mass and six fellow NROTC cadets formed a guard of honor. Mr. Donahoe would have been commissioned in June. 
Each of the 48 states and 28 foreign countries are represented in the 1949-50 enrollment at the University, according to figures released by the Eev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, Vice-President in Charge of Academic Affairs. 
A breakdown of the enrollment for the current schoolyear reveals that 815 stu­dents are attending the University from Illinois, which sent more students to No­tre Dame this year than any other state. New York is second with 717 stu­dents attending Notre Dame, and Indi­ana is third with 632. 
The figures further show that enroll­ment from all parts of the United States has come from a total of 1,805 high schools and preparatory schools. Of the total number of schools represented at Notre Dame, 1,162 are pulic schools and 643 are private schools. 
Foreign students attending come from as far away as China, England, Ger­many, Guam, Hawaii, India, Italy, Ja­pan, Norway and Spain. "Neighbors" of the United States which send students to Notre Dame include Canada, Mexico and Central and South American coun­tries. 
Two prominent Chicago business exec­utives and the advertising manager of Time International will be among the speakers at the third annual World Trade Conference to be held May 11 in the University Collie of Commerce. 
The three executives, who will take part in a public panel discussion, are Alfred J. Kelley, treasurer of D. C. An­drews & Co., import and export freight agents; Fitzhugh. Granger, merchandis­ing manager for International Harvester Co.; and William Honneus, of Time In­ternational. Honneus, who was recently elected national president of the Export Managers Club, will also be the principal speaker at the Conference luncheon. 
The purpose of the annual Conference is to arouse interest in overseas com­merce and to improve college courses in marketing by bringing together educa­tors and men actually engaged in foreign trade. Besides the panel and luncheon meeting, the program will include a num­ber of round table discussions on specific trade problems. 
More than 100 businessmen concerned with world trade or interested in open­ing new markets abroad are expected to attend the all-day session. Chairman of the Conference will be Professor Wesley 
C. Bender, Head of the Department of Marketing. 
Dr. Prelog (center) at the reeeptien ioUoiniig hia lecture. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
•iiiiiiics 

FOOTBALL 
Coach Frank Leahy and his assistant 
coaches started to work on St. Pat­
rick's Day to rebuild the national cham­
pionship football team. 
The Irish coaching staff is faced 
with a tremendous task during spring 
practice, when it is considered that the 
only remaining member of the 1949 of­
fensive first team is quarterback Bob 
Williams. The rest all have departed 
through graduation. 

The Notre Dame line, especially, is in need of revamping, with the entire first offensive line being lost. Tackles and ends were especially hard hit, with the losses including tackles Jim Martin, Ralph McGehee, Gus Cifelli, Ed Hudak and Al ZmijewsW, and the ends Bill Wightkin, Leon Hart, Ray Espenan, Doug Waybright and Jack Connor. 
Coach Leahy, at the opening of Spring pi-actice, switched Bill Fleming from end to tackle, in an attempt to bolster that department. This leaves Jim Mutscheller as the chief hope among the ends, followed by Chet Os­trowsld. The tackles rate as Flynn and Bob Toneff at this writing, with the guards figured as Paul Bums, Fred Wallner and John Helwig. 
Capt. Gerry Groom heads the center 

candidates, which also includes Byron 
Boji, Jim Hamby and Jim Bartlett. 
In the backfield. Bob Williams is backed up at the quarterback spot by his last year's understudy, John Mazur, which should leave little to be desired in this department. 
Leading right halfback candidate is Billy Barrett, while John Petitbon and Bill Gay will see lots of action at left half. At fullback. Jack Landry and Del Gander are expected to fill the shoes vacated by Emil Sitko. 

BASKETBALL 

Coach Ed Krause's Notre Dame bas­ketball team won 16 and lost 8 during the strenuous twenty-four game sched­ule in 1949-50. 
After winning twelve of their first nineteen games — which included eleven out of their last fourteen following a shaky start — the Irish dropped two of their remaining five games, one of them a 66 to 63 decision to New York University in Madison Square Garden, 
and the other a 68 to 58 verdict to 
DePaul in Chicago Stadium. 
Their victims during the final five 
games included St. Louis, 55 to 52, 
Navy, 65 to 59, and Marquette, 65 to 58. 
Capt. Kevin O'Shea, who spark-
plugged the Irish from his guard posi­
tion, wound up his four-year collegriate 
career with a handful of records. 
O'Shea, by virtue of playing four years, 
holds the four-year scoring record with 
1,065 points, the three-year record (pre­
viously held by Johnny Moir) with 835 
points, and the single year record with 
358 points. O'Shea won AU-American 
honors on the Associated Press and 
United Press first teams, and the Look 
Magazine second team. 

Coach Krause loses O'Shea and center John Foley off the 1949-50 team, but next season still will have around such boys as Dan Bagley, Don Strasser, Le­roy Leslie, Jack Neumayr, and Hughes Wilcox, plus a few better than average freshmen, when he starts to mold next year's team. 

GOLF 
3 

Although hampered by inclement weather, which has prevented his team from working out on the university golf course. Rev. George Holderith, C.s.c, will lead the Notre Dame golf team against the University of Iowa April 17 in the opener of an 11-game schedule. 
Seven Big Ten opponents, Loyola University, Detroit University, Wash­ington University and North Texas State comprise the 1950 Irish links schedule. 
Father Holderith \vill count on two returning veterans from the 1949 Irish golf team to provide the nucleus for another fine team this year. Return­ing this year are Capt. Tom Hudak, of JoUet, 111., and Tom Veech, of Mil­waukee, Wis., who battled his way to the semi-finals of the NCAA tourna­ment last simimer. 
Also on hand to lend support to Father Holderith's plans for a success­ful season are a talented crop of sophomores. 
The schedule: 

April 17—Io\ra at Iowa City, Iowa 
20—North Texas State at Notre Dame 
22—Indiana University at Notre Dame 

24—Purdue University at lafayette May 1—layola University at Notre Dame ' 6—Northwestern University at Notre Dame 
8—Wisconsin at Madison. Wis. 13—^Minnesota at Notre Dame 18—Detroit University at Detroit 20—Washington University at Notre Dame 22—^Michigan State Cbllcgc nt East lansing 


BASEBALL 
Coach Clarence J. (Jake) Kline must virtually rebuild his infield in prepara­tion for the opening on April 11 of the 1950 Notre Dame baseball season. 
Missing from the Irish infield when the season opens will be Gene Lavery, third baseman from Brooklyn, N. Y., Pete Koblosh, Yonkers, N. Y., short­stop, and Benny Kozlik, second base­man from Chicago. 

Other departees, through graduation, are outfielder Ray Petrzelka, of Cedar Rapids, la., and pitchers Walt Mahan­nah, of Memphis, Tenn., Dick SmuUen, of Yonkers, N. Y., and Dick Kluck, of Chicago. Jack Campbell, ace southpaw pitcher, of Lowell, Mass., signed a pro contract and thus will not be available for competition this Spring. 
The only returning veteran in the Notre Dame infield this Spring is Dick Giedlin, hard-hitting first baseman from Trenton, N. J., who is considered pros­pective major league talent. Otherwise, Coach Kline will be forced to start the season with an inexperienced infield combination. 
The outfield is in somewhat better shape, with Capt. Tom Martin, of De­troit, Mich., Jim Gillis, of Huntington Beach, Calif., and Don Grieve, of Yonk­ers, N. Y., available for competition. 
Bob' Nemes, of Jersey City, N. J., and Tony Lipton, of Baltimore, Md., are the holdovers in the pitching de­partment, while two capable backstops are available in Tom Boland, of Co­lumbus, O., and Dick Maher, of Kala­mazoo, Mich. 
The schedule: 

April 11—Iowa at Iowa Citj-, Iowa 12—Iowa at Iowa 15—MichiEan State CoUeKe at Notre Dame 17—Ohio University at Notre Dame 18—University of ChicaKO at Notre Dame 22—Western Michigan CoIICKe at Kalamazoo 24—Indiana University at Notre Dame 28—Pending 29—Pending 
May 2—Purdue at Lafayette 3—Northwestern at Notre Dame 6—University of Chicago at Chicago 
10—^Wisconsin at Madison 11—Wisconsin at Madison 12—Minnesota at Minneapolis 13—Minnesota at Minneapolis 16—^Purdue at Notre Dame 17—Northwestern at Evanston 19—Ohio State at Notre Dame 20—Ohio State at Notre Dame 2S—University of Michigan at Ann Arbor 24—Michigan State College at East Lansing 26—Illinois at Notre Dame 27—^Illinois at Notre Dame 

June 3—Western Michigan at Notre Dame 
Volume 28, No. 2, March-April, 1950 
wig, of Los Angeles, in the shotput; TENNIS Jim Bollas, Warren, O., Bob Boyne, FENCING Brooklyn, N. Y., Paul Ewing, Eliza­
Five holdovers from last year's squad are expected to provide the nucleus for Coach Walter Langford's 1950 Notre Dame tennis squad. 
Captain of the Irish netmen is Gene Biittner, Schenectady, N. Y., senior, who is a holdover from last season. Considerable aid is expected from Bob David, of Chicago, last year's captain, who is back this year for his final season of competition. 
Coach Langford expects to use David and Biittner as his Number One and Two men respectively. Other veterans upon whom the Irish mentor is counting include Jim Hennessey, of Louisville, Ky.; Pat Tonti, of Columbus, O., and Herb Hoene, of Duluth, Minn. 
Among the sophomores expected to give Notre Dame courtmen a lift are Matt Tuite, of Chicago, and Tom Over­holser, of South Bend. 
Notre Dame will open a tough nine-match schedule on April 29, when the Irish are hosts to the University of Wisconsin. The schedule Includes matches with six Big Ten opponents. Western Michigan, Detroit and Mar­quette. 
The schedule: 

April 29—^Wisconsin at Notre Dame 
May 2—Michigan State at East Lansins 
5—Western Michigan at Kalamazoo 
6—Detroit at Kalamazoo 
8—Iowa at Notre Dame 
10—Michigan at Notre Dame 
12—Purdue at Notre Dame 
18—Northwestern at Evanston 

19—Marquette at Milwaukee June 1-3—CCC Championship at Western Mich­igan College at Kalamazoo 19-24—NCAA Championship at a site to be announced 

TRACK 

Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Bandy's Notre Dame track squad went undefeated in dual meet competition during the 1950 indoor season, but didn't have quite enough squad balance for relay parti­cipation. 
The Notre Dame cindermen beat Pur­due, 64% to 49%, and Indiana, 63 to 51, thus qualifying for the unofficial indoor championship of the state of Indiana. The other indoor victim of the Irish was Missouri, which was van­quished by a score of 66% to 47%. 
Chief pointmakers for Notre Dame during the indoor campaign were Bill Fleming, of Providence, R. I., in the dashes and hurdles; John and Joe Hel­beth, N. J., John Mohar, Chicago, and Val Muscato, West Concord, Mass., in the middle distances; Paul Schwetsch­enau, Cincinnati, 0., 440-yard dash; Ben Almaguer, Monmouth, 111., two-mile; Tony DaDamio, Birdsboro, Pa., Jim Kittell, Missoula, Mont., and Con Tetrault, Providence, R. I., mile run; Jim Miller, Schenectady, N. Y., pole vault; Joe Crist, Patterson, N. J., high jump; Leo McKillip, McCook, Neb., hurdles; and Capt. Bob Smith, South Bend, dash. 
The Irish, in the Michigan State Re­lays, took one first place when Fleming won the high hurdles. Notre Dame fin­ished second behind Michigan State in the Central Collegiate Conference Meet at Michigan State. And in the Illinois Tech Relays, John Helwig tossed the shot 54'1" to win first place over CJhuck Fonville, of Michigan, Big Ten champ. 
The outdoor schedule: 

April 8—Southern Belays 
22—Kansas Belays 

29—Drake Relays May 3—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh 
13—^Michigan State at Notre Dame 
20—State meet at Purdue, I^ayette, Ind. 
27—Central Collegiate Conference meet 

closed for members only at Notre Dame June —Bradley University at Peoria, III. 10—Central Collegiate Conference—outdoor. Milwaukee, Wis—open meet 
Coach Herb Melton led his Notre Dame fencing team to its first unde­feated season in fourteen years during the 1949-50 season when the Irish won ten straight matches without defeat. 
The Irish romped over Case Institute, Michigan State, University of Chicago, Illinois Tech, Illinois, Northwestern,­Louisville, University of Kentucky, and Detroit in nine straight matches, before the University of Cincinnati forfeited its bout with the Notre Dame squad to complete Coach Melton's imdefeated campaign. 
Notre Dame's victory over the Uni­versity of Detroit provided sweet re­venge for the Melton fencers. It was this same Detroit team that provided the only blot on the Notre Dame record last season with an upset victory in the Motor City. 
Coach Melton's Notre Dame team was among the favorites in the NCAA tournament held March 24 and 25 in Detroit. 
Captain Bob Schlosser, sabre expert, and Nick Scalera, foil, tied for season individual honors with 23 victories and only three defeats each. Don Parisi, Bob Bosler and Ralph Dixon also tied with 22 victories and four defeats each. 
Fencing Coach Herb Melton (center, block tie) woddng oa details with two oi tha feacMS who helped bring the UnireiniT it*first undefeated ieaeiag seiaon in 14 yaaia. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 




The University Marriase Institute 
A MAN who has achieved nation-wide 

• ^ fame in the past several years was introduced as the opening speaker of the first Marriage Institute—and the chair­man remarked that he thought an intro­duction was necessary! Unquestionably, everyone in the audience at . least had a "rsading acquaintance" with this individual since there have been reams of copy written about him in practically every daily newspaper throughout the entire country. 
However, until that night, the more than 200 students who had voluntarily signed up for the. Marriage Institute series had known Fi-ank Leahy only as a football coach and nothing else. Now they were introduced to "another" Frank Leahy — Leahy the husband and father of a family. To this particular group, there was a great importance attached to what Frank Leahy was about to tell them — of much more concern than the intricacies of T-for­mation football. 
Each topic on the agenda was present­ed by an expert, and almost half of the speakers were lay persons while the rest were priests. Wherever possible, a lay­man was used on the panel because mar7 riage is the layman's great sacrament. The student and his interests were the primary guide-posts in planning this In­stitute. Each talk was followed by an in­formal period of questions asked by the students, and answered by the two speakers for that particular session. This proved to be one of the most interesting parts of the program. 
Frank Leahy discussed the qualities we ought to look for in a vnie, and on the man's side, he suggested practices and virtues the man ought to contribute to the partnership. In all of these items, he gave concrete examples from his o\m life. Toward the end of his talk he de­veloped the point that marriage is very definitely a vocation in itself, and there­fore demands from the student serious interest, serious preparation, and seri­ous study—all of these factors have to be considered if marriage is successful. 
There is a familiar saying that women were made to be loved, not understood. But a more important question here is just what is this thing called love? More specifically, conjugal love? People have even written songs about it. In the Mar­riage Institute, Father Bailey spoke on it and he pointed out that in mar­ried life one must: 1) love irrevocably from the first; 2) love mutually, i.e., be loved in return; 3) love the total person of the beloved in his or her supernatural 
By HEV. HOBEBT I. LOCHNEB, CS.C. 

The author is an instnictor in Reli­gion at the University of Notre Dame, and was ordained to the priesthood in ID.'iG. Originally from Cleveland, O., Father Lochner received an A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1937. He contin­ued his education at Catholic U., and was awarded a Master of Arts degree in 1947. 
Mr. I.eahy 

destiny; 4) love altruistically, unselfish­ly; 5) find the completion of one's own personality in the beloved; and 6) desire the fruit of love, which is the primary objective purpose of the union, that is, children. To have love explained in this way is to understand clearly why love, primarily a spiritual thing, is an act emanating from the faculty of the will of man. We can see then why true love is not just a physical urge or a feeling of emotion. 
One of the most interesting lectures in this series was given by Br. Herbert Eatner, a staff member of Loyola Medi­cal School in Chicago, and Commissioner of Health in Oak Park, Illinois. He is a man who has had wide experience not only as a doctor but also as a marriage counselor. Dr. Ratner debunked the mod­em illusion that, if one is to have a happy and successful marriage, it is ne­cessary to study in detail and at great length with books, charts and pictures everything that is to be known about the physiological and anatomical aspects of marriage. He certainly v.-as reasoning deeply and forcefully when he said, "If we had to depend upon physiology and anatomy to be successful in marriage, none of us would be here today. Human beings were living long before such sub­jects and such books came into existence. So God in creating man did not depend upon these things to make marriage suc­cessful." 
Mr. Uobart 2ullivan, a member of the College of Law faculty, married, a law­yer and former football player spoke on the legal aspects of marriage. .A. profes­sor in the Department of Economics, Mr. Louis Radelet, himself a married man and father of a family, discussed a topic which every husband ought to know something about—money. Mr. Radelet treated the family as an economic unit and considered it as an enterprise. He suggested seven methods for the manage­ment of money by the husband and wife, and all of these had been found useful and workable. 
Mr. and Mrs. Pat Crowley, of Chicago, gave a very interesting discussion of the project in which they are involved called Christian Family Action (CFA). This movement has, apparently, spread from coast to coast. Many neighborhood fami­lies form a group, have periodic meet­ings, and discuss and solve the problems of their own families and those of the community in which they live. The Crow­leys explained the program for these meetings and how they were conducted. 
The final panel of this series was on the all-important topic, courtship and engagement. Father Theodore Hesburgh, CS.C, Executive Vice-President of the University, and former chaplain of Vet-ville, where married students and their families live, spoke about courtship. 
The examples and advice he gave were highlighted by eight points: 1) be your­self—sincerity and frankness; 2) be thoughtful—try to make her happy, a better person; 3) associate with her in real life circumstances—don't live in a tavern; 4) pray with her—share inner confidences and ambitions and hopes; 5) don't over-spend yourself—^nor be a cheapskate either; 6) give her a chance to do something for you—love grows on mutual sacrifice; 7) be mature, and re­spectful of her—^gentlemanliness; 8) show her that you are the best man for her—by being it. 
Volume 28, No. 2, March-April, 1950 
Overseas Markets on Foreign Trade Forum 
Problems, methods and potentialities of overseas markets will be discussed at the third annual Foreign Trade Confer­ence, to be held on May 11 in the College of Commerce at the University. 
The aim of the conferences is to stim­ulate interest in world trade and to biing about an educational exchange of ideas between business men and educa­tors. Professor Wesley C. Bender, Head of the Department of Marketing, is chairman of the 1950 conference. 
Nationally known authorities on for­eign marketing will open the all-day program with a series of round table discussions. These will deal with Traffic and Freight Forwarding, Advertising and Sales Promotion, Finance and Cred­it, and Export Management. 
After a luncheon meeting, a public panel discussion will be held, followed by an open question period. A reception and dinner meeting are planned for the evening program. 
Speakers for the conference are now being arranged for, according to Pro­fessor Herbert J. Bott, of the Depart­ment of Marketing, chairman of the pro­gram arrangements committee. The con­ference is open to all businessmen already engaged in foreign trade or those who are interested in the possibilities of new markets abroad. Professor Bott said. 
Another Lab Sponsored In New Science Building 
John H. Fendrich, President of H. Fendrich, Inc., Evansville, Ind., has pre­sented a gift of ?10,725 to the Univer­sity of Notre Dame to cover the cost of the Auxiliary Organic Research Labora­tory in the proposed new Science Build­ing at Notre Dame. 
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, President of Notre Dame, in making the announcement of Mr. Fendrich's gift, said that the new laboratory made poss­ible by Mr. Fendrich's generosity will be a memorial to the late Herrmann and Mary Reitz Fendrich, parents of the Evansville business executive. 


Sclenfisfs on CBS 
Two leading scientists at the Univer­sity were presented March 25 in a net­work program of the Columbia Broad­casting System. 
Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, Dean of the College of Science, and Dr. John D. Mizelle, Professor of Biology, were on the "Adventures in Science"' program. Conductor of the program is Watson Davis, Director of Science Service. 
GERRY O'BRIEN, '46, Chairman oi the education Committee oi the Notre Dame Club oi Washington. D. C, discussing the club's own Great Books Program with (center) ludge Alexander Hor'tzoif, of V. S. District Court and Dean Brendan Brown, of Catholic V. 
HAROLD A. WILLIAMS, '38, at right in picture above, checks the latest rumors with Joseph Dinan, Associated Press correspondent, on the steps of the French Foreign Office in Paris. 
Williams, a foreign correspondent for the Baltimore Stin, graduated with an 
A.B. degree after an undergraduate career as a writer for the Scholastic. He recently authored a story for the magazine Notre Dame on his experi­ences covering the cold war for his paper. 
As a student Williams was employed on a student-job basis in the Alumni office, was secretary of the senior class and participated in freshman track. He served with distinction in the armed forces during World War H and went overseas for the Sun last year. 
Prior to his overseas stint, Williams was editor of the Sunday Sim Maga­zine. He has been an active member of the Baltimore Notre Dame Club and until recently was city chairman for the Notre Dame Foundation in Baltimore. 
While Williams was writing headlines another > member of the Williams family was making them, but on a different page. Harold's younger brother Bob quarterbacked last year's National Championship football team. 
Williams' top European assignment, he relates was that of covering the opening of the new (German Parlia­ment at Bonn. 
"It is the hardest story in Germany to cover adequately and intelligently," he says. Official reluctance to talk to the press complicates the existing prob­lem of language differences. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 



The Sherman Collection 
Civil War Mementoes Stored in Notre Dame Archives 
Bif Thomas 31, MeAiiister 
A
N unsigned portrait of Lt. Gen. Wil­liam Tecumseh Sherman has been added to Notre Dame's gi-owing collec­tion of Shermaniana. 
The painting, depicting the General in his late years, is on exhibition in the ^Yightman Memorial Art Gallery in the Noti-e Dame Library. The rest of the Sherman collection is in the University Archives, and most has been donated by Miss Eleanor Sherman Fitch, General Sherman's granddaughter, and Mrs. Florence Ewing Steele, both of New York City. 
Until a new library is built on the campus, and the present structure is turned into an art gallery and museum, students and visitors to the campus will be unable to view the collection of pos­sessions and mementoes of the famed Civil War commander, since there is no room to exhibit it under present condi­tions. 
Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C, director of the University Archives, and other members of the library staff are trying to determine the identity of the painter whose work now is in the University's possession. Dr. Maurice Goldblatt, cura­tor of the art gallery, assumes that the hands and face were done by a master and the rest of the portrait, of an inferi­or quality, by one of his students. 
However, it is the part of the collec­tion still in the Archives which would probably be of most interest to the lay­man. One of Sherman's uniforms, some battered battle flags, the seal of the no­torious prisoner-of-war camp at Ander­sonville, Georgia, where, it is said, one hundred Union prisoners died each day, the key to Appomattox Courthouse, where Grant accepted Lee's surrender, and many other souvenirs of the Civil War are stored in the Archives. Several packages of letters -twitten by the Gen­eral during the Civil War, some of them 
The author is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters and is majoring in Journalism. He is from Albany, N. Y., and a veteran of three years in the United States Army. Following V-E Day, he was affiliated with the War Crimes Commission in Nurenbnrg. 
still unpublished, are included in the col­lection. 
It is believed that the unpublished let­ters may throw a new light on the char­acter of a man who was thought to be an embittered, wrathful taskmaster. 
as Sherman, S.J., a renowned missionary. Father Sherman lectured at Notre Dame on several occasions. 
Rev. Joseph C. Carrier, C.S.C, one of the founding fathers of Notre Dame's College of Science, aided in forming a 

Sherman's portrait is viewed by Father McAvoy. 
Sherman may have been a victim of cir­cumstances; he was very definitely on the "outs" with the Civil War press. He had worked in the South in pre-war days and hesitated to take up arms against his former friends. 
The collection of Shermaniana has found its way to Notre Dame because of the close connection between the Uni­vei-sity and the Sherman family. While the General was at war his wife and four children lived at St. Mary's Col­lege in South Bend; Mother Angela, C.S.C, president of St. Mary's at the time, was a cousin of Eleanor Ewing Sherman, the General's wife. 
Two of Sherman's sons, Willy and Tommy, attended Notre Dame and his daughter, Minnie, was a student at St. Mary's. An infant son, Charles, died here in December, 1864 and was buried by Father Sorin, C.S.C, founder of No­tre Dame. Willy died while visiting his father in Memphis fourteen months be­fore Charles' death. 
Tommy later became the Rev. Thom-friendly bond between Notre Dame and General Sherman. He was a chaplain in the 15th Army Corps, Sherman's war­time command. The general thought highly of Fatlier Carrier and refused to release him when the Congregation pro­vincial requested that the priest be re­turned to Notre Dame. 
General Shei-man visited Notre Dame only txnce. He spoke at the commence­ment exercises here June 7, 1865 and returned to speak to the Knights of St. Patrick a decade later, Mai-ch 17, 1875. On both occasions he denounced anyone and anything that might harm the na­tion that he lovsd so much. He referred to the Confederate generals whom he op­posed — Johnston, Hood, Beauregard, Hardee and Wheeler — as "traitor gen­erals." 
Until the still unpublished letters of William T. Sherman are placed on exhi­bition—until the new library is. built— we will not know how much the great Union commander loved his country and how much he hated those who opposed it. 



Gifts to Notre Dame in 1949 
A letter from the President 
DEAR FRIEND OF NOTRE DAHE: 

You, who have shared so encouragingly our interests and our problems, are entitled to the report of our progress which I am pleased to submit herewith. 
In its broad aspects, the year 1949 was the most encoiuaging to the Univeisity and its administration of any recent year. This was because of the unprecedented generosity and participation within the year fay alumni and by friends other than alumni. 
I am grateful to the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, to the Board of Directors of the Alunmi Associa­tion, to the Advisory Councils of Science and Engineering and of Commerce, to the State Governors and City Committeemen of the University of Notre Dame Foundation, to the Presidenti's Committee in New York City, and to the campus staffs of these groups. It was through their zealous and effective missionary work that tbe story of Notre Dame was carried to many more persons than ever before. We believe the results have come ftom this understanding. 
The two outstanding projects which comprised the major million-dollar gift of Mrs. Fred J. Fisher were. most encour^ing, not only in implementing principles of campus residence and student aid—which have marked Notre Dame from its founding—^but in their confirmation that these aspirations of the University are shared by those who are looking for the proper training of young men. 
Other generous gifts were diversified in purpose, which was an encouraging factor in itself. Our failure to achieve more than $484,365.36 toward our goal of $1,400,000 to complete the proposed Science Bunding, was offset substantially by this assurance that our other problems were not obscured by the concentration. 
And we do have many other problems. We are constantly woridng under the handicap of a low and in­adequate unrestricted endowment; we have the immediate problem of expanding maintenance facilities—a. building, a sewage and water system, lighting and heating provisions—^which are essential if we are to construct our new buildings, but which do not have the sentiment or the graphic appeal that marie academic projects. 
Alumni giving reached a new high total in amount, and was accompanied by a participation of alumni ranking high in national comparisons with alimmi giving in other schools. The number of non-alumni friends almost doubled our best preceding total. So we are encouraged in the solution of the problems we have obviously only implied. We know that great opportunities are inherent in these problems. We know that the training of a moral, responsible leadership is in itself full jtistification of our effort. But it is most gratifying to feel that our administrative convictions are shared, our problems understood, and our efforts ' supported. 

I commend to yoiir friendship this Report, with its rich significance of growing understanding and help. I trust that it will be a reward for those of you whose participation made it possible, and that it will be a stimulus to those for whom the sharing of a great purpose—the building of tomorrow's leadership—remains a satisfaction yet to be experienced. 
Very sincerely youis, 


Gifts to the University 
A report prepared by the Unr 
I. GIFTS FOR BUILDING 

Tlie Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial Domutory The New Sdence Building Anonymous (2 gifts of |25,000) Anonymous (2 gifts) 
3. H. Fendrich (Organic Laboratory) 
(Siarles M. Hayes Hearst Corporation Kresge Foundation (Electronics Laboratory) 
Arthur B. McBride (Nuclear Physics Laboratory). 
Edward J. HcBride 

Charles L. McMahon, Inc. (Administration Office) 
Huc^ H. O'NdU 

SoUitt Construction Company, Inc. John C. TuUy Thomas H. Zosky (Dark Boom, Beading Boom) Gifts under $5,000 
Odier TOTAL 

 PURPOSES  
1750,000.00  
50.000.00 10.700.00 10.725.00 5.000.00 5,000.00 25,000.00 5,000.00 10,000.00 6.000.00 5,000.00 5,000.00 6.000.00 6.800.00 334440.36  484,365.36 4i273.50  
$1,238,638.86  

IL SPECIAL FUNDS AND RESTRICTED GIFTS 
Tlie ^mes M. Haggar Fund (this fund now totals $47,138.27). 
The Kari E. Koch Fnnd (this fund now totals $61,826.15) The Emeit M. Monis Foundation (this fund now totals ^1,033.68) The L A. O'Shanghnessy Fine Arts Foundation (this fnnd now totaJs $542,512.38). 
CoD^e of Arts and Letters The BockefeUer Foundation (to farther the study of Interna­tional Belations, payment to be made over a three-year period) Other 
CoD^e of Commerce Cdlqie of Engineering Collie of Law 

Ahrin A. (Sonld (to sponsor the Third Natural Law Institute, and establi^ the Natural Law Library) Odier 
Eadowment Ponds Lahoiatories of Bacteriology (LOBUND) ComiMUiions of the Forest of America Damon Bunyon Cancer Fund (to support basic work with germ-free fiTiiimtlii as a biological tool for cancer studies) John P. Wagner Otiias 
litaipcal SdMKd Mirhapl P. Grace Trust (to foster study and appreciation of tiie litargy of tiie Boman Catholic Church) (this fnnd now totals $7,045.37) 
Medieval Institute William J. Corbett Fnnd for the Medieval Library (this fund 
now totals $74,316.20) ICchad P. Grace Trust (this fund now totals $83,500.00) OUier 
Sdolanhip Fimds (Endowment) Anonymous 

O. J, Caron (this fund now totals $32,500.00) . Mr. and Mrs. John L. Harrigan (tiiis fund now totals $8,500.00) Jttbn H. Neeson Memorial Schalarship (this fund now totals $6,705.00). Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati (this fimd now totals $6,000.00) Notre Dame Club of Cleveland (total of fund No. 1, $10,000.00) 
(total of fund No. 2, $1,000.00) Thomas W. Pangbom Scholarship (this fund now totals $9,330.00) 
*Does not include income from previously invested scholarahip fnndi. 
69.000.00 1480.00 
4.850.00 500.00 
1.674.00 
25.000.00 2.600.00 100.00 
40fiOOJOO 
20.000.00 
150.00 
5,800.00 2,600.00 1.000.00 8,410.00 2.000.00 
1/100.00 6.000.00 
7.000.00 6.800.00 78.600.00 100.000.00 
70430.00 
350.00 2,550.00 
4,850.00 
1.000.00 
29,274.00 
10.000.00 
60,150.00 
20,710L00* 



f Notre Dame in 1949 
y of Notre Dame Foundation 
Sdwlanhip Fimdi (Awards) Sev. James A. Boms Memorial Seholarshipa 
Michael P. Grace Tmst Notre Dame dob of Alcron Notre Dame Clnb of IhdianapoliB Notre Dame Clnb of Eentnd^ Notre Dame Clnb of New York Notre Dame Clnb of Bock Biver Valley . Notre Dame dob of St. Joaeph Vall^ „. Notre Dame Clnb of St. Looia Thomas H. Zosky Scholarship 
Student Loan Funds 
Fred J. and Sally Fisher Education Fond George E. Sokoldcy Stndent Loan Fond (this fond now totals ^405.00). 
Other 
Doctor Albert Zahm's "CeOtcttd Papen" 
OAer 
TOTAL 

TOTAL. GIFTS FOR BUILDING PURPOSES, SPECIAL FUNDS AND RESTRICTED GIFTS (8,675 DONORS) ~ 
IIL RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS AN D 
Researdi Fellowships (Current Gifts) American Cyanamid Company (Chemistry) Coca Cola Company (Chemistry) Central Soya Bean Co. (Chemistry) DuFont Industrial Grant (Chemistry) _„International Nickel Company (Physics) Eli Lilly Company ((Chemistry) Kimberly Clark Corp. (Political Science) Ibry Young Moore (Engineering) Smitii, Kline & French (Chemistry) Socony Vacuum Oil Company (Chemistry) Union Carbide & Carbon Co. (Metallurgy) 
Rcseaich Grants, Goremment 
Chemical Warfare Service 
National Advisory Commission (Aeronautics) 
National Advisory (>>mmi8sion (Metallurgy) . 
National Institute of Health National Institute of Health (for Cancer Research) — 
U. S. Navy Department (Laboratories of Bacteriology) 
U. S. Navy Department (Chonistry) 
U. S. Navy Department (Metallurgy) 
U. S. Navy Department (Physics) Other 
Research Grants, Industry Bureau of Economic Research (Economics) Cieneral Tire Company (Chemistry) Ivano. Inc. (Chemical Engineering) 
Kellogg (>>mpany (Laboratory of Bacteriology) Olin tadustnes. Inc. (Chemistry) Outdoor Advertising Agencies (Commerce) Research Corp. of America (Physics) : Sinclair Befimng Co. (Chemistry) Utilities Research Commission (Engineering Mechanics) 
TOTAL 
la wUSlioa to tbe above gifts and gnmts-iit-ud, the Univenitr of No(m i 
tbe HUHT 'T~*'Tli~'' to iti Utmrio, Arauvea mad Ait Gelktr, aad to in ' . and DepaitaieBls. In iHTtirahr doia it i«iih to ilnunleJIie let^t o{ &• { 
10.000.00 1.000.00 
1.000.00 

500.00 Sy«00.00 2;ooo.oo 
250.00 1.860.00 400.00 
1,200.00 2i.«iaoo 
250.000.00 100.00 1.650.00 251.750.00 
16JMQ.0O 
 GRANTS 

1.600.00 8,200.00 1.200.00 2300.00 2,500.00 15.000.00 1.500.00 
600.00 2^000.00 2.000.00 2.000.00 343O03O 
3.349.62 7.225.00 24400.00 1.74L98 7496.64 
G7.0Q106 17419.88 74.928.78 

815.80 31S39t44 
^77.60 7,500.00 7348.93 3.600.00 12300.00 36030 730030 

i63oaoo 
6031836 

544L78 
1,92^541.67 
940730170 

For the College of Engineering, a 10 KW Generator donated by Jamea and Robert HaadUon. Valiw 110300.00 For the Department of Physics, an Electron Microscope donated by the Radio Corporation of America. Valne iSfiOOM For the Radiation Chemisixy Project, a 2,000,000-volt Electrostatic Generator fnrnislied bf Ow 
Atomic Energy Commission. Value ; ; 59300,00 


THE LONG RANGE NEEDS OF NOTRE DAME 
ai previously outlined in 

"(E^ i^triMOance of Vtpagfl 1^0961 Stt" 
THE SCIENCE BUILDING A NOTRE DAME INN AN AUDITORIUM A LIBRARY A NEW ADMINISTRATION BUILDING A GRADUATE RESIDENCE HALL THREE RESIDENCE HALLS A UNION BUILDING A MAINTENANCE BUILDING A LIBERAL ARTS BUILDING BACTERIOLOGICAL LABORATORIES A PRIESTS' RESIDENCE HALL 
ENDOWMENT FOR Salaries of Research Teachers Graduate Professorships Visiting Professors and Lecturers 
SPECIAL FUNDS 
Library Maintmance (new books) Sup})ort of learned publications 
STUDENT AID FUNDS 

Scholaishipi for talented and neeif umkigiaduatei Scholarship* and fellowihips in dip Gnduate School Poft-doctoral aids 
UNRESTRICTED ENDOWMENT 
To improve Notre Dame't pceient pontian as one of the least endoived major univenitief Volume 28, No. 2, March-April, 1950 
Cleveland 
JOE BREIG'S autograph party introducing his first book, God in our Houses was held at the Catholic Book Store and Information Center, whose president is KARL MARTERSTECK, '29, on Mon­day evening, February 20th. Joe Bricg, '27 in addi­tion to being an author, is now assistant editor of the "Catholic Universe Bulletin" and has a column syndicated in many of the leading Catholic news­papers and magazines throughout the country. 
His Excellency, the most Reverend FLOYD BE­GIN, D.D., auxiliary bishop of Cleveland, compared Joe to the famous G. K. Chesterton. A recording of this program was made by Station WERE nnd was played on Tuesday, February 21st as the cvenr ing*s feature for the program WERE there. 
The annual retreat was held February 24th tlirough the 26th at St. Stanislaus House of Retreat. A group of 66 attended this important religious function. Father Mayhew, S.J., was the retreat master, assisted by Father Knoepflc. JOE HAN­RATTY, *34, served as chairman and did an excel­lent job in rounding up this large group. Scholar­ship award was made to ROBERT STOCK, Cleve­land, '50, who is now assisting the editing of the "Notre Dame Alumnus." 
The annual Rocknc Memorial Klass and commu­nion breakfast was held on Sunday, March 26. Mass was said at St. Peter's Church and breakfast followed at the Hotel Allcrton. Father VINCE MOONEY, '16, was the guest speaker, JACK EL­DER, *30, was chairman. 

Indianapolis 
Through the cooperation of Butler University we were able to procure some -100 choice scats for the Notre Dame-Butlcr game on Januar>* - 31st, and WILLIAM J. (CURLY) ASH, '24, was good enough to allow us the use of his ofHcc as a ticket agency. Then on the following night HUGH L. BURNS, '39, came back down for our February meeting and showed the movies of the Southern Methodist game. Hugliie was as humorous as ever, which probably accounted for our biggest turnout of the year with 309 club members and friends crowding into tlie Council Chamber of the K. of C. 
The Club suffered a severe shock in February with the sudden passing of MIKE FOX, '34. Mike was one of the biggest club and alumni boosters. He was also a past president of the Club and he guided the destinies of the Scholarship Fund in 1948. Mike's death certainly leaves a void in future Club activities. 
Father THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C., Executive Vice-President of the University was in town for a lunclieon speaking engagement before the Indianapolis Round-Tablc of Christians and Jews. In the evening Father had supper, with the officers and members of the Board of Directors prior to speaking to the Club at the ^(arch meeting. 
The Third Annual Lenten Retreat at Alverna Re­treat House is scheduled for March 24th with JOE GILLESPIE, '41, JOHN CAREY, '39, and TOM FITZGERALD, *38, handh"ng all of the arrange­' ments. Attendance figures at this point are prob­lematical but we have high hopes of good turnout. 
Our plans are fast coming to a head for Uni­versal Notre Dome Night on April 7th. This year the annual affair is being held at the Hillcrcst Golf and Country Club and is being headlined by the first Indianapolis aopcarancc of Commerce Dean JAMES E. MCCARTHY. AS general chairman BILL HOLLAND. 27, has laid plans for the best night ever featuring HiUcrests famous "Smorgosbord." Many state and local notables will be in attendance. The highlight of the evening will be the annual election of club officers. 
Two top slates have been prepared for the even­ing. The BLUE TICKET features HARVEY FOS­TER, '39, BOB HILGER, '32, ED FISHER, '34, HENRY ENGEL, '40. BILL O'CONNOR, '29, and JOE BECK, '35; the GOLD TICKET runs as fol­lows: JIM BOWEN, '26, ED CUNNINGHAM, *31, JOHN CARR, '34, JIM CARSON, '38, FRED ZIETLOW, '33, and HENRY FROMMEYER, '27. 

Los Angeles 
New directors named at a Feb. 15 meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles are: Dr. HAR­OLD GUERIN, BILL HEARN, Dr. E. E. JEN­NINGS and CHARLES MURPHY. They replace TOM and ED ASHE, LEO WARD and GENE CALHOUN, and will serve three years. 
Officers named for the year are LOUIS BERAR­DI, president; BEN ALEXANDER, 1st vice-presi­dent; JOHN "JUDGE" CARBERRY, 2nd vice-president, and CHARLES MURPHY, secretary-treasurer. 
On March 3 a two-day retreat spoiuored by the Club was obser^ied at Manresa Retreat House, Azusa. The Retreat Committee, mindful of the numbers of Notre Dame men who had been un­able to make tlirce-day retreats in the past, arrang­ed for a two-day retreat, with Father Thomas J. Sulli\-an, S.J., as retreat master. 
Thanks for a successful retreat are due the com­mittee, consisting of JOE BUCHANAN, ED P. CUN­NINGHAM, CHARLES. GASS, BOB HEUTHER, CHARLES MURPHY, BILL CORR, BOB McMA-HOX, ED SHEERAN and PAUL RUBLY. 

Philadelphia 
Over 400 people attended the annual Robert £. Maxwell Memorial Football Club Dinner in the ballroom of the War^vlck Hotel in Philadelphia. The Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia was represented by a group of members including all the officers and members of the board of governors. The guest of honor and recipient of the award as America's outstanding football player of 1949 was LEON HART, '50. It was an excellent program and Leon was very well received by the audience. Incidentally BOB WILLIAMS' father joined us that evening. 
The Archbishop Ryan General Assembly, Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus, invited the officials 
- of' the Philadelphia Club as their guests for the evening to honor the great record made by the "Fighting Irish" from South Bend, In football. The club was represented by BUD DUDLEY, '43^ JOHN NEESON, '35, CLIFF PRODEHL, '32, CHARLEY CONLEY. '33, BOB BURNS, '41, and BILL BURNS, '40. There was sin^ng by the Glee Club, a motion picture of Knute Rockne and a presenta­tion of a medal to our president BUD DUDLEY. It was a most impressive evening and really made us all proud to be Notre Dame men. 
Election of club ofiBcers was held with the follow­ing results: J. CATTIE, '41. W. BODO, '33, C. CONLEY, '33, W. RIDLEY, '31, and V. IX>NA­HUE were elected to the board of governors to ser\*e for two years. The following officers were elected: Prtadent, BUD DUDLEY, *43; Vice-Preri­dent, JOE CATTIE, '41; Secretary, BILL BURNS, '40; Treasurer, PAUL TOLAND. *43; Assistant Sec­retary, CHARLIE DOUGHERTY, '26, and Assist-an Treasurer, ED CRONIN, '48. 
On January 30, 1950 the Philadelphia Sports Writers Association held their 46th annual dinner. Twelve hundred men attended the dinner in the ballroom of the Broadwood Hotel. LEON HART received the award as the outstanding lineman of 1949. Again Leon made a most favorable impression upon the entire audience. He is a fine representative for Notre Dame. A number of our members were pleased to represent the Philadelphia Club at this dinner. 
This will bring you up to date on local happen­ings. We are making plans for Notre Dame Night and will have another one of our usual big even­ings. You will hear more about this later. 

Rochester 
The local club has held two meetings since the first of the year. The last ^fonday of the month is our regular meeting night. In January these officers wTre elected: RICHARD T. SULLIVAN, '32, 29 Ehndorf Avenue, Rochester 11, President; ALBERT 
W. ROCHE, '31, 882 Genesee Park Boulevard, Rochester U, Vice-President; VICTOR A. DE SI­MON. '46, 162 Scholfield Road, Rochester 5, Treas­urer; JOHN RICHARD KLEE, '47, 128 Jackson Street, Rochester 21, Secretary. 

AWARD FOR WORK IN CATHOLIC ACTION 
AMBROSE D. ("BUD") DUDIEY. '43 (can­ter, striped tie), accepting the Archbishop Byon Medal awarded the Philadelphia Club of Notre Dame for their outstanding work in Catholic Action. Dudley, Club President received the award on behali of the club, as part of the Golden Jubilee Celebration of the Archbishop Bran Gen­eral Assembly, Fourth Degree Kughts of Columbus, others witnessing the presen­tation ore (1 to r) Sir bight Thomas I. Wood; JOHN R. MEESON. IB.. 'SS: CUF­FOBD E. PROKHOL '32; Nonrigotor Jo­seph F. Long; WIUIAM G. BUBNS, '40: Dudley: CHABLES A. CONIEr, '33; John 
J. Cahill. Master. CalTert Province. Fourth Degree, presenting the medal and BOB­EBT E. BUBNS. '41. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Saginaw Valley (Mich.) 

Cartoon Original Given University 
L. D. Wcrrem cartoonist for the Cincinnati Enquirer, presented the originc£ of his draw­ing which appeared on Benjamin Franklin's birthday, to the University. It will be added to the Alvin A. Gould Collection in the Natural Low Library. The cartoon, show­ing a profile view of the head of the Franklin statue in Philadelphia, was inspired by a quotation from Franklin: ".. . God grant that not only the love of liberty but a thor­ough knowledge of the rights of man may pervade oil the nations of the earth, so that a philosopher may set his foot anywhere on its surface and say: *This is my country'." Mr. Warren presented the framed and inscribed cartoon to JOHN C. COTTINGHAM. prettdent of the Cincinnati Club of Notre Dame, for transmittal to the University. Ac­cepting the drawing in the above photo is t&. Cottingham and members of the Cincin­nati Club. They are (1 to r) RAYMOND J. PELLMAN, JOHN H. HEILEER, Mr. Warren: ALBERT D. CASTELLINI. Mr. Cottingham and ROBERT C. CHENAL. 
Between meetings Frank Leahy came to town. The local Catholic High School, Aquinas Institute, held its victory and au-ard dinner. Frank was guest speaker. JERRY FLYNN, *39, went over big as toastmaster at that afiair. The club managed to fill two tables reserved in the name of Notre Dame that February 9th. Fran Curran of the Rochester Ro> ^ Basketball Club w-as there >\-ith Bill Boss. The new club officers sat across the table from last %-ear's president and \-ic«-president, JACK HEDGES, '43, and AL-\RTY BAYER, '37, respectively. Other names cheering the Leahy lad: JOE FLYNN, '16, JOE FLOOD, '48, ED CARSON, '41, VIC YAW­MAN, '26, DICK CORCORAN, '34, HUGH GOOD, '43, JACK HEAGNEY, '47, DICK ^^L­LER, '44, JACK KEEGAN, '41, STAN MURRAY. '43. 
Fran Curran, incidentally, arranged a showing of professional mo\-ies at our March meeting—the re­cent Rochester-Mintteapolis game, in which the :great George Mikan put 39 points through the hoop to help the Lakers lose by 66-64. 
The shows finally came to Rochester so that the new officers ha\ic had a difficult time arranging a meeting of their own to discuss plans and progress. SuIli^Tin comes down with a cold. Klee's car won't run or De Simon's studying for the bar exams. Thus great ideas are idly resting. 
However, several of the local lads managed to get out last night to talk things over. It was reg­ular meeting night. JOE FLYNN, '16, talked of his trip to SjTacuse and of the meeting for New York State Foundation purposes. VIC YAW'MAN, *26, and AL ROCHE, '31, were along. The Club is "eager to mo\"c in on the Foundation situation. We talked preliminary arrangements for the Universal Notre Dame night this >Tar. 
At the January meeting wc wawd goodbye to JOE RORICK. Joe had given up his position at Kodak Park for a more lucrative occupation in the high rent dbtrict of Long Island. So, with Joe gone we didn't notice ANDY DE SIMON at the Fcbruar>' meeting. With Andy gone w*c'll never see LEE HASTINGS again. A chain of e\*ents like that could ruin us. So, we blame it on the weather. 
VIC YAWMAN, *26, is planning on a tour to 
Cleveland this fall. His successful venture to New York for the North Carolina game last fall bolstered the club treasury suffidently to warrant an attempt of a like ventiu^ for the Na\7 game this fall. Al­ready Vic has begun negotiations with the Hotel Slatlcr. 
From CARL W. DOOZAN: 
At the March 17 meeting plans were discussed for the Annual Universal Notre Dame Night and it was determined that the meeting would be held, if possible, in Bay City, Mich.; that JOHN CACK­LEY, Staff Project Officer of the University, would be the honored speaker for the evening. Discussion was had on the price range, the agenda for the meeting, ways of getting out an increased attend­ance, newspaper publicity and the possibility of hav­ing refreshments before the dinner included in the price. 
Delinquent club members were discussed and it was determined that an all-out drive would be made to contact all these delinquent members and get them in good standing. It was further suggested that a motion be presented to the mcmbcrshio nt the next annual meeting to raise the dues to ^.00 per annum, which would include the price of the annual dinner. 
Possibility of an excursion to the Notre Dame-Michigan State game on October 28, 1950 was dis­cussed. THOMAS VAN AARLE mo\ed that a chair­man be appointed for the committee and that that committee be a holdover for next year even though new officers would be elected at our annual meet­ing, Aprfl 17, 1950. President SCHNETTLER ap­pointed ROY CATIZONE of Merrill, Mich., as the chairman of this committee. 
Discussion %»-as held on the presentation of the tro­phy to the Avinners of the Saginaw Valley Parochial League. The Trophy Committee is working out rules to determine permanent winners. 
THOMAS VAN AARLE, chairman of the ban­quet held December 19, 1949, reported that the Club broke even on the event with the possibility of showing a possible $4 or $5 in the black. 
Our activities came to a close with the annual business meeting on January 18, 1950 in Lafayette. Here the constitution was changed to allow for separation of the office of secretar>'-treasurcr jnto two separate offices since the work involved was be­coming too great for one person. BILL RUNGE, '39, was elected president for the coming year, and a list of the other officers has already been sent to the Alumni office. 



ST. LOUIS LUNCHEON 
FATHEB THEODOHE M. HESBUBGH, CS.C« EseculiTe Vice-President of the UniversitT (seated, extreme left), with guests at the boaketball luncheon in the Missouri AtUetic Club, St. Louis, following the game Feb. 11 with SL Louis University. Next to Father Hesburgh is Rev. Paul C. Reinert S.I., SL Louis U. Prerident: John I. Griffin, Jr., president o! the SL Louis Club, which gave the luncheon: Robert Bumes, SL Louis Globe-Demo­crat sports editor; Ed Krause, Athletic Direclon Ed ICckey. SL Louis U. basketba'l coach: standing, (1 to r). Dr. Matthew W. Weis,' Alumni Directon Joseph McGIynn. Notre Dame Foundation District Governor; 'Wlliam Duzney. SL Louia U. Athletic Directon Dr. Bert­rand D. Coughlin, SL Louis Foundation Choinnan: Bev. Patrick I. Halloran. S.J., SL Louis n. Alumni Director, and Gerald V. McDermotL Chairmon of arrangements. 
j Volume 28, No. 2, March-April, 1950 
GREETER MORRiSSEY 
Official welcome of the Notre Dame A*umni Association of Greater Cincizmati being extended FRANK lOHNSON, '50, and WALT GROTHAUS, '50, by JOHN S. MORBISSEY. '28. Morrissey, a quarterback in his playing days emceed a Football Smoker at the Alms Hotel. Cindxmati, where the two players and JAMES BARTLETT, '50, received trorelling bags from the local Alumni group. Athletic Trainer HUGH BURNS, '39, is at extreme right. 
In reviewing our activities for the year, \vc find that our meetings this past year were bigger and better than ever before. As is customary, wc found that the more wc ofTcrcd, the better the attendance was. 
Our membership list was increased with the addi­tion of six of the alumni group and four associate members. An increase of that size each year will make for an excellent club before long. 
As associate members our organization takes in persons who have a genuine interest in Notre Dame. Wc have found that these associate members take a more active interest in the club and in the Uni­versity than most of the graduates of the Univer­sity, and they have been our best financial hackers. Other clubs, especially those with small membership, might do well to Follow the same procedure. 
Wc were able to canvass the area for jrraduates and former students and did find we did not have some of them on our mailing list. That situation has since been corrected, and through the changes of address coming through from the Alumni oHice, wc hope to keep an accurate check on all cligibles within our jurisdiction. 
We were able to assist in placing three Notre Dame graduates during the year, and may have helped two others get jobs. No final report on them has come through as yet. 
Also, we did maintain fairly close contact with the Alumni office itself, which did help the club a great deal. 
All in all, we started off several years ago with­out too much in the area, and through the hard work of a small group, now have an active and growing alumni organization. We Intend to keep on growing and getting more active as the years go by. 
That summarizes our activities pretty well for the year. Wc still have to get on a sound financial basis, but believe wc have the interest of the members now, and wc will get the financial backing as wc can get and hold the interest of the local alumni. We are optimistic for the future, for a better alum­ni group in our Wabash Valley area and for a better group for the University. 
Here is a brief report on our annual business meeting which was held at the Fowler Hotel in Lafayette, on January 18. 
Wc amended our constitution to allow for another officer. Prior to the meeting, wc had a secretary-treasurer, and now those are separate offices. 
The followini; officers were elected for the com­ing year: President WILLIAM W. RUNGE, *39; Vice-President L.\RRY O'CONNOR, '30: Secretary TED MacDOXALD, '42; Treasurer DAVID KOR­TY, '47. 
PAUL KENNEDY, '24, was elected a trustee for three years to succeed JAMES RAINIER, *30, whose term has expired. 
Committee members were to be appointed at a later date. 
As part of the evening's entertainment, we wit­nessed the pictures from the University showing the hii;hlights of the 1949 football season. JOE DIEN­HART, '26, freshman coach at Purdue, though an ND man, furnished a running commentar>-. 
I've enjoyed working with the Alumni Association this past year as secretary-treasurer, and look for even closer cooperation this year as club president. 

Tulsa 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Tulsa termi­nated a very active year with election of new officers at our monthly luncheon held at the Mayo Hotel on Friday, February 10, 1950. The retiring officers were BILL PADON, '42, president; CHARLES McNAMAR.\, '40, vice-president, and PETE Mc-MAHON, '44, secretary and treasurer. Taking the reins are LOYD F. WORLEY, '39, president, and RALPH HRUSKA, *37, secretary and treasurer. The office of vice-president was eliminated because of its inactivity. The secretary is authorized to ap­point an assistant secretary in order to expedite mailing of notices, etc. 
The most important activity of this Club during the past year was the inauguration of the Notre Dame Club of Tulsa Scholarship Fund. Motion for this fund was put up by R. J. SULLIVAN, '31 and carried unanimously. The fund was given a 5nancial start by contributions from CHAS. L. McXfAHON, JR., '42, and PETER J. McMAHON, '44, however it was WILLIAM PADON, '42 and BOBBY SIEG­FRIED, '37, who undertook to run a special train to the Notre Dame-S.M.U. game In Dallas. 
It was through their determination and energy that this scheme was such a grand success in netting us a handsome account as a starter for our new fund. Others aiding in the build-up of the Scholar^ ship Fund were LOYD WORLEY and JOSEP B. MORAN, '30, who headed a committee directing a ticket sale for the special train. When the cfaqis were down, the pnnnotion of the sale and the traia itself proved to be very successful. The train car­ried 230 paid round-trip passengers. It might be well to note that CHAS. L. McBlAHON, JR., flew BILL PADON and BOBBY SIEGFRIED to the Universtty to get scHue ideas about running thii train. On the return trip the plane in which they were flying lost one engine while at a low altitude and was forced down into a muddy Illinots oat field. Also in the plane was Charles' sister, Martha, and Bill Padon's wife, Nano. Nano, inddcntally, is a St. Mary's graduate. Fortunately, no one was hurt. 
The Club held its annual dance in the Crystal Ballroom at the Mayo Hotel on December 27. The dance was the best the club has ever held. The seating and dancing arrangements plus the arrange­ments for the orchestra, waiters, etc., were handled very, very capably by W. P. (BILL) DeCOURSEY. *42. There were approximately 500 pcfiple at the dance and a good time was had by all. 
On January 10, 1950, we were honored to have as our guest Rev. GEORGE A. CAVANAUGH. A special cocktail and dinner party was held, niving all the members a chance to become acquainted with Father Cavanaugh. After the dinner, FaAer Cavanaugh spent some time in giving us bits of in­formation about the activities of the University after which he conducted a round-table discussion. Questions were asked by the members and answered by Father Cavanaugh, clearing up any points he made or bringing up other points of Interest to the members. 

Wabash Valley 
Herewith the annual report of the Notre Dame Club of the Wabash Valley: 
We started with the election of ofl&xrs as of Jan. 31, 1949. In addition to the officers submittine this report, ROBERT MOHLMAN, '28, was elected vice-president of the club. 
Our first activity was the Notre Dame Night celebration. We met at the Fowler Hotel In Lafay­cttc. Guest speaker from the University was Father ^VILU.AM ROBINSON, C.S.C., of the University. His parents were guests of the Club at the meet­ing. In addition we had Red Mackey, Athletic Di­rector; Stu Holcomb, head coach, and our own JOE DEINHART, freshman coach, from Purdue as our guests. Joe showed pictures of the Notre Dame-Purdue- game. from the year before. M. A. NA­VILLE, '99, was presented with an ND key in honor of his graduation from the University 50 years previously. LARRY O'CONNOR, '30, was general chairman for the event. 
Our next big party was the pregame party we had at Sarge Biltz restaurant In Lafayette the night before the Purdue game. We had two fencers and two wrestlers down from the University and they were our guests for the weekend and the game. They did a great deal to cement relations between the present-flay students and those of the years gtMie past the boards. We enjoyed dinner and after the genera] entertainment there was a pasteboard derby. The next day, most members of the club went to the game and sat in otir special section for the game. Some 200 of us In the same group made quite a cheering section. 
Next on the list came our Communion Breakfast under the direction of BALFE WAGNER, '24. The group went to 8 o'clock Mass at St. Maiy*s Catfae­dral in Lafayette and afterwards met at the Fowler for breakfast. 
REUNION NOTE ! ! ! 

Became of convention ooaditians in South Bend (whldi wiD o^'erflow to the Univcnitr) and because td the linuted fadlitics oC the campos •• restaurant and maintainance staffs during the acadrnric intcixm periods, ahan i thb year are ashed not to plan on tcinyng families or guests. 
Another year, the Board has plans lAicii may alter tUs sohstantially. 

SPOTUGHT ALUMNUS 


Engagements 
Miss Mar>- Veronica Holland and OLIVER H. 
H. HUNTER, III, '43. 
Miss Arlren Ellen Fischer and MICHAEL KABOT WEINBERG, '47. 
Miss Kathleen Virginia McDonald and DR. CHARLES FRANCIS PATER.\0, '40. 
Miss Mary Kathrjn Kreutzcr and JAMES JOSEPH McL.\UGHLIN, '49. 
Miss .A.gncs Connollv and DR. WILLI.-VM A. O'CONNELL, '43. 
Miss Jeannette Marie Dc Wispelacrc and LOUIS 
.\. CIESIELSKI, '50. Miss Edith L. Blamy and GORDON REILLY WILCOX. '42. 
Miss Aline W. Shiell and ALOYSIUS LEO KUNTZ, 
'47. Miss Rita Evangeline Kramer and THOM.AS JO­SEPH STEW.ART, '49. 

Marriages 
Miss Marian J. Seely and THOM.AS F. QUINL.\N, '38, Elizabethtown, N. Y. 
Miss Mar%- Barany and DUDLEY DAXHAN BIRD­ER, '50, South Bend, Fcbruarj- 11. 
Miss Dolores E. Cwidak and JOHN D. ZEKAN, JR., '49, Soutli Bend, Feb. 4. 
Miss Marjoric Ann Hutchins and JULIO DANIEL PETTIN.\TI, '50, South Bend, Feb. 4. 
Miss Freda M. Kusmic and MATTHEW J. GRAS­BERGER, '49, South Bend. 
Miss Frances E. Donnelly and EDW.\RD GERALD FORTIER, '45, Chicago, Feb. 11. 
Miss Bettv Sh.vim and JOSEPH T. O'HARA, '49, South Bend, Feb. 11. 
MUs Theresa Connelly and J. "JUDGE" CAR­BERRY, Los Angeles, Feb. 11. 
Mrs. Ravmond Freeman Knight and MR. JOSEPH O'KEEFE WEISS, '37, New York, Feb. 18. 
Miss Mabel Dorothy Grady and ROBERT ED­WARD S.ASS, '41, Brooklyn, N. Y., Apr. 15. 
Miss Maria Paz Margarita Martinez dc AU-a and THOMAS G. FRY, '48, Mexico City, De c 3\. 
Miss Ruth Finke and ROBERT F. RANEY, '48, Dayton, Ohio, Nov. 26. 

Born to 
Mr. and Mrs. LARRY EVEHT, '48, a son, Ter­rence AVilliam. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. ARTHUR MANNION, '43, a daughter, Susan Arthene, November 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. CALLIX E. MILLER, JR., "49, a daughter, Klarch 15, 1950. 
Mr. and Mrs. GERALD E. PAVEGLIO, '41, a son, Michael Charles, Dec. 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM MORROW, '42, a daugh­ter, Teresa Marie, Feb. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE J. O'REILLY, '35, a daughter, Mar>' Elizabeth, Dec. 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES F. McNULTY, '42, a :on, James Francis, H, De c 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT DOLLARD, '39, a daugh­ter, Elizabeth Ann, Jan. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES DUKE, '38, a daughter, Feb. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH J. FARWELL, '43, a daugh­ter, .Eileen Louise, Jan. 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH F. HASS, '47, a son, Feb. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. HAROLD COLEMAN, '50, a son, Feb. 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM GEORGE SMITH, '33, a daughter, Kathleen Susan, Jan. 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. McCULLOUGH, '27, a daughter, Margaret Ann, Dec. 31. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWIN L. VOLL, JR., '48, a daughter, Denise Ann, Nov. 12. 

Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT F. SCHIRF, '39, a jon, Stephen Micliael, Dec. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. S. R. QUINN, '43, a son, Michael Kevin, Feb. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD J. MILLER, '44, a son, Nicholas John, Feb. 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. EMIL SITKO, '50, a daughter, Feb. 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. VITTORIO G. ARCADI, '35, a son, Robert William, Feb. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS S. MARKEY, '29, a daughter, Patricia Alarie, Feb. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. RUDOLPH J. ANDERSON, JR., '47, a daughter, Mary Josephine, March 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE DOYLE, '39, a son, Robert Michael, Feb. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES F. McVAY, '42, a daughter, Jamie, Feb. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK J. REILLY, '37, a daughter, Virginia, March 21. 

Deaths 
The '*Alumnus" has recently received ncw-s of the death on Feb. 3 of JUDGE RUSSELL HARDY, '16, of Kansas City. Judge Hardy sen*ed in World War I as an artillery lieutenant. 
He was the father of Donald Hardy, *50, and was serving his ninth year as judge of the District Court of ^Vyandotte County. In 1949 he was elected an honorary member of Phi Delta Phi, national honorarj- legal fraternity. 
BROTHER URBAN KROWNAPPLE, C.S.C., died Feb. 5 in the community infirmary after an illness of several weeks. He was professed as a Brother in 1916 and for many years was heat and power engineer at University of Portland. More re­cently he served in a similar crapacity at Gtlmour Academy, Gates &fiU, O. 
Surviving are a sister, Mrs. H. Bishop, of Akron, O., and two brothers, Carl Krou-napple of Akron and F. W. Krownapple of Arlington, Va. 
.ANDREW L. MCDONOUGH, 'I9, died March 4 at his home in Plainfield, N. J. A senior member of the law firm of McDonough and McDonough, he was appointed in 1929 an assistant attorney-gen­eral of New Jersey. 
Mr ^IcDonough won two track monograms while attending the University and scri-ed in the Air Corps in \Vorld AVar I. During World War II he attained the rank of major as commanding officer of the 17th Fcrr>'ing Squadron, AAF. After World ^Var II he did extensive work in helping young No­tre Dame alumni find places in industry and com­merce. 
Sur\'iving are Mrs. McDonough and three chil­dren. 
JOSEPH ANTHONY LAUGHLIN, '34, died at his home in Wilmington, Del., after a months-long illness. Mr. Laughlin had been labor relations di­rector for .\tlas Powder Co. 
At 36, HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39, is one of the youngest FBI agents to hold a state FBI command. He is agent in charge of the Indiana office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, be­sides being a member of the Indiana State Bar. 
Appointed to the FBI in October, 1939, Mr. Foster had previously coached football at South Bend Central Catholic High School. He won a varsity foot­ball monogram while attending school. 
Never a desk-and-briefcase agent, Mr. Foster did field work in Puerto Rico, Los Angeles, New York, San Antonio, Texas and Des Moines, Iowa, before being assigned to Indianapolis. 
In January this year he was elected a director of the Alumni Association of the University. 
Indiana State Gallery Pistol Cham­pion, Mr. Foster had never used a pistol before joining the Bureau. He became so proficient in its use he was appointed for two years as an instruc­tor on the FBI Academy Staff. 
An example of the highest type law enforcement officer, Mr. Foster believes that respect for law and authority should begin with children. 
"They should look upon an officer as someone who helps them rather than someone who will come and take them away if they are bad," Mr. Foster says. 
Mr. Foster is married to the former Mabel M. Mahler, of South Bend, and they have two sons, John D. Foster, 6, and Daniel G. Foster, 5. 
He was associated with the Democratic League and was an active member of the Delau-are Notre Dame Club. Mr. Laughlin is survived by his wife, Dorothy Ahem Laughlin, two children, Kathleen 13, and Michael, 12; his father, W. H. Laughlin, and a brother, William R. Laughlin, both of Hous­ton, Tex. 
1910 
$1,100.00 contributed by 4 class members. | 
40-yEAR REUNION Junes. 9, 10, 11 
From FATHER MORIARTY: The Class of 1910 salutes the new Assistant Sec­retary John P. Burns. Among our souvenirs we have many delightful memories of that capable and per­sonable Doolcy person and ^ve are hopeful that something of his fine editorial spirits will hover around and about your Alumnus "sanctum santor­um*' for years to come. 
A letter from JAMES T. FOLEY delighted my licart.- He will be with us for the "Fortieth." It seems to me that news on the plans of MILLER, SCHMITT, SINNOT and a few more has gone for\vard. I am enclosing a reprint of an old-time picture sent in by "BIRDIE" McBRIDE, Pitts­burgh. You perhaps have a bone yard for these kinds of bones. All the men of our time would recognize "BILLY" RYAN, "DREAMY" SCAN­LON, "RED" ATTELY, and the afores^d "BIR­DIE" McBRIDE. Some day I shall send along an affidavit to vouch for elaborate head of hair which was mine. Those were the happy days. 
Best greetings to the office and a special hello when you see Sir William at some or other depart­mental meeting. 
Also a note from GEORGE REMPE, '10, De Kalb, Illinois. Line him up for attendance in June. He belongs in the top bracket. 
FOR 40TH REUNION—SEE TENTATIVE SCHEDULE. PAGE 35 Your class secretary. Rev. Michael Moriarty, St. Catherine's Church, 3443 £. 93rd, Cleveland 4, O. 
1913 
$300.00 contributed by 5 class members. 
From CLYDE E. BROUSSARD, '13 
In order that you may make a minor correction in your files of address, I am giving you herewith the address that was given to me by GEORGE W. PHILBROOK, '12. You may recall that you ga « me his address recently. I wrote to him and the letter probably reached him without delay but in his reply he gave me a different local address. The ad­dress that you gave to me was RFD 10, Box 1180, Milwaukee, Oregon. The address that Fhilbrook gave to me was 18700 SE Abcrnathy Lane, Mil­waukee, Oregon. I sent Fhilbrook a copy of the book that was wriUen by FRANCIS WALLACE, '23, "The Notre Dame Story." I will quote for you one paragraph from the letter that I received from Fhilbrook, "I took your letter up to Father Dclaunay and after he had read it twice we had a pleasant time hashing over the old times at Notre Dame. We all had a great laugh about my death notice on page 52. As RALPH DIMICK, 'll, would have said—'Dead, but not buried'." You probably know that Oimick and Fhilbrook were roommates while they were students at Notre Dame. Both Jive in Oregon or Washington. 
Another paragraph that may be of interest to you is as follows, "I am in the Insurance business here in Portland, but I just can't stay aivay from ath­leucs. I coach track at University of Portland. I have had pretty fair success. My teams win most of the time." 
PhUbrook mentioned that his family consists of his wife, three children, and two grandchildren, and prospects of additional grandchildren. He also men­tioned that his wife was a South Bend girl. 
Your Class Secretary, Paul R. Byrne, University Library, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
1915 
$407.50 contributed by 9 class members. 

35-yEAR REUNION June 8, 9, 10, 11 
From JAMES E. SANFORD (via AL KUHLE): 

HUGH A. BARNHART, Rochester, Indiana-Printing and Engraving—says he "plans to be pres­ent for the entire program." 
DR. JOHN M. CULLIGAN. St. Paul, Minn.— Physician—"Intends to be present at the 3oth an­niversary." 
ALVIN "HEINE" BERGER, Fort Wayne, Ind. —Manufactures pumps—"Am getting some 'store* teeth but will be there with bells on." 
REV. KERNDT M. HEALY, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Indiana—^Asst. Provincial, CS.C. Father Healy lives on the campus so will surely be with us. 
J. W. STACK, East Lansing, Michigan—Director of Museum—"Too many years have elapsed since we met to swap yams of gray heads and grand­children—I will surely be going to N.D." 
ARTHUR CARMODY, Shrevcport, La.—Execu­tive of oil company—"It is my earnest wish as well as well as Mike's to be able to attend the re* union of the class of 1915 at N.D." 
HAROLD D. MADDEN. Cincinnati. Ohio—"Will surely be there in June—^Will certainly be looking forward to seeing this "grandfather with eight grand­children." 
LEO F. WELSH, Indianapolis, Ind.—Celtic Loan & Savings Assn.—Leo has a son graduating in June —it's his fourth to graduate at N.D. "Intend to attend my son's graduation and also the reunion of the class of '15." 
GEORGE N. SHUSTER, New York, N.Y.—Pres., Hunter College—"Regret my coming to N.D. this June is out of the question; am sure it will be an exciting occasion for ever>'body." 
EMMETT G. LENIHAN, Seattle, Wash.-At­torney—^'*Will certainly make every effort to be there in June." 
REV. PATRICK H. DOLAN, CS.C. c/o Holy Cross Brothers* Postulate, North Dartmouth, Mass., with the Eastern Mission Band.—"Certainly, I shall try to be on hand; meeting the 1915 crowd would make me very happy." 
Says Al: "The above replies indicate that nearly 100% attendance is assured." 
BILL SHEA'S letter to his group was a master­piece. In part he said: "We have lived through two world wars, periods of prosperity and a real de­pression. All of us were affected more or less. Many of us have families, obligations, experiences and travels. Do you realize that 27 classmates are dead and about 15 others have not been heard from in recent years?" 
So you see there is plenty to talk about, in ad­dition to absorbing thfc "Spirit of Notre Dame" once more. Why not arrange to attend in June? 
-Other replies came from the following: 
REV. PATRICK QUINLAN. Director of the Catholic Information Center, St. Ann's Parish, Kingstrec, So. Carolina. He wrote. "Your kind let­ter telling of the plans for a reunion at Notre Dame in June reached me early in the month. I intended long ere now to drop you a line but my missionary labors in this real mission area prevented me. June is a very busy month here. 
"In fact all of the summer months arc as you will conclude from the enclosed 'Carolina Dust on Our Shoes* which tells of the activities of my first summer in these parts.^.If I.can get a proper;re­placement so that the work can continue in my al> sencc I shall try to make the reunion. If this is im­possible I shall most certainly not fail to remember all of you at the altar. 
"May God Bless you today and always. This will be my prayer." 
HENRY SNYDER. 13U Lakeview Avenue. Whit­ing, Indiana, wrote: **l am planning definitely to be at the reunion. After all we are passing along with the years and surely want to be there. I am count­ing on it very strongly.*' 
J. OMAR COLE, whfMe son and namesake grad­uated in 1934, wrote to Bill that he attended Notre Dame only a short time in 1910. We will be glad to have him come. 
From GALVIN HUDSON, P.O. Box 353, Mem­phis, Tennessee: "I was glad to know that after all these years there were some left with enough pep and initiati\-e to get this old gang together again. 
It is my sincere hope that I will have enough funds remaining to make this trip after taking in the Derby at Louisville in May; anyway it is in my plans to be on deck for the grand fracas. 
In the meantime, if I can be of any help in this thing, please do not hesitate to call me. 
"With kindest regards and best wishes to all the boys of 1915.** 
From JOE BYRNE: 
"I have sent out 77 letters. What else do you wish me to do?" Joe's letter was great and we are counting on it to help us round up many of the dass who remember Joe and have watched his ac­tive interest in everything pertaining to Notre Dame. Here is part of his letter: "Did you wer think time would roll on so fast, and did you ever think you would be so fortunate as to be able to go back after that length of time to the most beautiful place in the world. 
"We tvant to prove to the world that the Class of *15 is the best in the history of Notre Dame. As you well know, our entry on the campus in 1911 wu a rennaisance period for the University of Notre Dame, and all big things happened from that tlate fonvard. 
"I know you are busy, but please do not turn this letter aside. Let me know as soon as you can, please, whether you intend to be with us, so that I can tell JIM SANFORD, our Class President, and he can set up the plans for a happy reunion of our old group.*' 
NORMAN RANSTEAD heard from JOHN F. BOYLE, Colgate, Oklahoma: "I am looking forward to being at Notre Dame next June to meet the old gang.*' 
HAROLD MUNGER, architect, Pcrrysville, O., wrote: "Subject to conditions beyond my control I'll be with the class in June." 
RAY SULLIVAN, New Hampton, la.: "I'm plan­ning on attending the reunion." 
L. D. KESSLAR heard from our" old friend CHARLEY FINIGAN, Box 2270, Boise, Ida. Char­I«y has been ill %wth long sessions at the Mayo Clim'c and other hospitals, but the spirit is there. He wrote: "As much as I would like to tell you that 1*11 see you in June I cannot at this time, but mind you I have not said that I will not sec you. 
"Please say *hello* to any of the boys you see who may remember me.*' 
LOOK for more specific news in the next "Alum­nus*' concerning our plans. We should have 50 to 60 on the campus—perh^is more the way the pledges are coming in. We urge all members of the class who read this column to let us hear from them. We are bound to have a fine reunion and every member of the class will find many of his old friends. Get out that typewriter and send the Word "I'm coming." 
From MARCH WELLS: 
Certainly seems like old times to hear from you, and this is to let you know, Al, that I intend to be at our 35th anniversary at Notre Dame. 
From BOB ROACH: 
Of course I am planning to attend the reunion in Jtme. My old love for Notre Dame ne%i*er diminish­
cd during all the years. I am looking forward to a most happy reunion. FOR 35th REUNION—SEE TENTATIVE SCHEDULE, PAGE 35 Your Class Secretary, James £. Sanford, 509 Cherry Street, Wiim:tka, III. 
1922 
$991.45 contributed by 23 doss msmbcrs. 
From KID ASHE: 

WILLIAM A. A. (BILL) CASTELLINI is dcaa. Can it be possible that wc arc no longer to sec ia this life that big, vibrant, and truly wonderful specimen of Catholic manhood—our beloved Bill Castcllini who died suddenly February 23, in his home city of Cincinnati? AVhat boundless energy and stirring enthusiasm he poured into everything he did. TIiosc among you who attended our 25:h An­niversary in 1947 will ever recall how Bill refused to stay away from the reunion because of a broken ankle; he hobbled about on crutclics. 
Bill's life work was public relations in whicli field he was prominent and successful. He gave generous­ly of his talents to assist DAN YOUNG, ED BAIL­EY and HAROLD McKEE in directing publicity for a highly successful 25th Reunion. Philadelpliia and Cincinnati can testify about Bill's work in con­nection with Notre Dame Clubs in these cities. To our way of thinking Bill was the ideal t>'pe of No­tre Dame man. 
Never, never can it be said he gave too little; he may have given too much. Our loving sjTnpathy to Bill's widow, Ruth Castellini, son, Billy, single daughter, Mona, and married dauglitcr, ^Irs. John Kecfe, to his brother, AL CASTELLINI, '24, and to other members of the Castellini family. 
The public press has carried considerable matter of late on the transfer of DR. EDDIE ANDERSON, Head Coach of Football at Iowa to Holy Cross Col­lege, Worcester, Mass., where Eddie had formerly coached. Wc arc confident that Eddie will have Holy Cross back in the winning column after he has been around for a reasonable period. Wc do wish you much success, Eddie. 
Congratulations arc in order for DOCTOR MATT. WEIS of St. Louis, who was elected a mem­ber of the Notre Dame Alumni Board. For years Doctor Afatt has been very active with the St. Louis group. 
To the neighboring class of 1920, we extend our congratulations because from their number Avas se­lected the man to lead the Alumni Association of Notre Dame—President LEO \VARD of Los An­geles, who has done so much for his own class, and for his Notre Dame fello\\*men in the Los Angeles area. We are confident Leo can handle every sit­uation admirably. 
DOCTOR HENRY ATKINSON and wife of Green Bay, Wisconsin, have just returned from a motor trip to Florida. Enroutc north, the Atkin­sons stopped off in St. Louis to visit DOCTORS DAN SEXTON and iL\TT WEIS and their families. 
AARON HUGUENARD of South Bend has writ­ten a note of sympathy to your secretary on death of Bill Castellini. For the benefit of those wishing to ofTer condolences to Mrs. Castcllini and family, the home address is as follows: MRS. WILLIAM A­
A. CASTELLINI (RUTH) 3662 KENDALL AVE­NUE, HYDE PARK. CINCINNATI 8, OHIO. 
On March 11, an air mail postal ^vas received from DAN YOUNG written March 3, in far away CHUQUIMATTA, CHILE. Dan writes: "I re­ceived the terribly sad news of Bill Castcllini. I had bought one of these cards for him. I am down here on a copper plant wc are building for Ana­conda. It is in the ATACAMA dedcrtj 9500 feet alti­tude in the Andes. Wc only had two earthquakes yesterday. I hope to return in a month." 
CLARENCE E. MANION, Dean of the Uni­versity Law School addressed the South Bend Junior Chamber of Commerce at a business meeting in Hotel LaSallc. His address "Big Government and Little People" was well received. 
DEAN MANION is awaiting publication of his most recent text, "Americanism." An earlier work, "Lessons in Liberty," has enjoyed wide adoption in high schools. 
Your Clan Secretary, Gerald Ashs, 39 Cambridge Street, Kodiester 7, New York. 



SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 

JOHN FREDERICK NIMS. '37, as­sociate professor of English at Notre Dame, is the author of A Fountain in Kentucky, a book of poems just publish­ed by William Sloane Associates, New York. 
The Iron Pastoral, another book of poetry by Professor Nims, was published three years ago. In 1944 his works were included in a book called Five Young AmcHcan Poets, among whom were Ten­nessee Williams. 
Before he received his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, Professor Nims won the University's Billings Prize for poetry for two successive years. 
He also won three of Poetry's prizes: the Harriet Monroe Memorial Award in 1942, the Guarantors' Prize in 1943, and the Levinson Prize in 1944. 
Professor Nims is one of the editors of Poetry, a Magazine of Verse, His work has appeared in Harper's, Atneri­ca, Commonweal, Kenyon Review, Satur­day Review of Literature, Accent, and Partisan Review, 
Of Nims' poetry, a critic in the Chi­cago Sun said: "Since Carl Sandburg's Chicago Poew^ appeared in 1916, there has been no volume of city poetry that compares favorably with Nims' Tfie Iron Pastoral, Indeed, I feel that he is a more penetrating and disciplined Sandburg, a poet who sees the complexity of modem urban-industrial civilization more clear­ly than the earlier Chicago poet ever did and who expresses his vision in a more orderly, eloquent manner." 
William Rose Benet wrote in The Sat­urday Review of Literature: "The work of John Frederick Nims seems to me to rank high among modem verse. . . . What Mr. Nims does is what many mod­em poets try to do and fail." 
 1925 
$2760.00 contributed by 84 class members. 

25-yEAR REUNION June 9, 10, 11 
From JOHN P. HURLEY: 

Since the neu-s for the January-February issue was mailed, I've heard from many of the fellows, and we have had three (3) major meetings of the 23'ers —in South Bend, Chicago, and last week in Cleve­land. 
Many thanks to the fellows who have sent their dollar for Classes . . . remember that buck you send could be for yourself. .. . As you rated in the last issue, GEORGE LUDWIG said: "Her* is my buck for the *25 Massr«—a mighty fine idea!" ED AH­LERING and T iiave made plans to press the "Bade in '50" movement among the chem'cal engi­neers and believe we should get nothing less than 100^ agreement. George, you will have to do n double job because our mutual friend and classmate. ED AHLERtNG, died suddenly with only two da>-s left in the first half-century . . , because of your dollars we had Father Tom McAcoI say a High Mass for the repose of Ed's soul. Ed was the twenty-fourth member of our dass to go to his reward. One of our many plans to make our 25th reunion differ­ent is to have e\-er>-one who makes the reunion— attend and ofTer the sacrifice of the Mass for those 24 members—you will receive a holy card when you register, with all the members* names on it—as a reminder of the time and the place of the Mass. 
This will probably be the only solemn hour of the three days. Let's make it a sacred one for the dassmates who have gone before us. 
On Saturday. January 7th. our South Bend Com­mittee headed by BILL CERNEY got off to a good and unified start on our 25th reunion, which to re­peat, will start Friday June 9th, and continue through Sundav, June the 11th. In eeneral our aim is to make this not only a memorable occasion for all members of the dass, but to set a new pace for all 25->-ear reunions in the years to come. 
Here's the tentative program and there is plenty of enjoyable surprises not listed, espedally the dass dinner! You %vin have to attend in person and if you don't, you will regret It as long as you live .. . and remember, "tempus fugit memento more." and twenty-five years have alreadv "fugitcd,** so make your plans now! (JOHN BARTLEY is start­ing a spedal car in New York. DONN MILLER wants to line up one for Clevebnd on the same train—before you know it we will have a special 
•25 East train.) EUSTACE CULLINAN of Frisco, HARRY McGUIRE take note .. . get up a West train—you can start one out there in California and pick up ED ASH in Los Angeles. BOB HURLEY in Fresno, and BILL CLEMENS in Santa Monica. Calif.. BILL DIELMANN of San Antonio. RALPH GLADEN and MORRIS FELDMAN of Modesto. Cnlif. The FLEMINGS in Dallas: LAWRENCE FRIEL in Lynwood. Calif.. DICK FUTTE in Fris­co: DR. LAWRENCE KENNEDY of Pasadena; JOHN F. KILKENNY of Pendleton, Ore., HAR­OLD HARSnCK of Portland—FATHER JOHN LYNCH could act as Chaplain—he's at Notre Dame Hit;h School at Sherman Oaks, Calif. EARL Mc-CARRON of Fairbanks. Alaska and TONY GON­ZALEZ of Manila, P. I., and MANUEL GONZA­LEZ of Pueblo, Menco, and the TREVINOS of Monterey, Mexico, could fly in and catch the train at a given p<rint; along with JIM WARGIN of Los Angeles. What a time you would have! We will have a case of Pep-So-Bismo as an attendance prize for the East-West train competition. HANK WUR­ZER can line up a car with the boys in Iowa for a "daylight run,** and get the West Coast boys in 
condition for the reunion weekend. As I was saying before this "train talk" started, here's the program. 
1.
 Assignment of residence hall for the class .. . we think it win be WALSH, because of its recrea­tion room—(remember the K of C room?). 

2.
 Registration of class. 


a.
 Walsh HaU. 

b.
 Issuing of '25 cap and silver cane (SCALLAN is getting these). 

c.
 A dass reception committee to identify and es­tablish you .. . we promise an offer of a drink while tegbtering to mellow the inlroduc­


Volume 28, No. 1, March-April, 1950 
tions. If you are an A.A. or have ulcers, you can have a "Hurley cocktail" . . . some to­mato juice! 
3. Friday night—Class Dinner—Lay Faculty Dining Room. (This will be the first class dinner on the campus.) 
a.
 Glass officers at head table with our Class Presi­dent DON MILLER presiding. 

b.
 Administration and faculty speakers . . . the "Profs" of our day will be on deck. 

c.
 Awarding of prizes . . . member coming back the longest distance . . . member with the largest family, most recent baby, etc. 

d.
 Informal "bcer-buffct" and entertainment pro­gram—on a dignified plane, but not at the ex­pense of fun. 


4.
 Class Mass, 9. A.^L, Saturday in Hall Chapel for deceased members said either by FATHER WM. McAVOY or FATHER JOHN LYNCH. We will have FATHER CON HAGERTY there to awaken you. 

5.
 The President's Luncheon for the 25-year class. Faculty Dining Room at noon on Saturday. 


a.
 Address by FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH. 

b.
 DON MILLER will present to the University, in behalf of our class—$3,000.00 (we hope more) as a memorial to advance the building and perpetuate the memory of DR. JOHN D. WEIBEL, *25—All American Guard and sci­ence grad. . . . 


.\n average gift of $25.00—a dolbx for each year from our 300 members will put us over. PUase note—don't let this keep you away, because the names WILL NOT BE READ. This would be an immediate thing, and would not mean that the class might not, in years to come, commemorate itself in other building projects, some of more appeal. By this gift you also are on the "preferred list" for tickets. 
6. A 25-year Forum. A panel of the Eve Deans for 10-minute summaries of the progress made in 25 years in the several colleges of the University. (Open to other reunion groups also.) 
7 .Alumni Banquet—'25 tables separate. 
a. .After this we can retire to our private bar and recreation room in the Hall—none of these 
''tea for two" meetings in the rooms. We come back to enjoy the company of the entire; dass. and we want every fellow who has traveled hundreds of miles—to meet every other fellow. Won't it be just like some classmate in Elkhart or South Bend to miss the time of his life? 
The class wl! also, oF course, have access to the 
golf course, the Alumni Golf Tournament, swimming, 
tennis; whatever sports event is planned for the gen­
eral weekend, and other campus facilities of general 
interest . . . such as seeing FATHER THORNTON 
and trying to get your son, or your best friend's son, 
into Notre Dame. 
Some plans, eh? We haven't said a thing about seeing RAY CUNNINGHAM'S movies of past re­unions, and aU the "butt sessions" that are bound to take place for any spare moment. 
This outline ivas agreed upon by WILLIAM CER­NEY, General Chairman; JIM ARMSTRONG. Alumni Secretar>*, as well as the fellows attending the first reunion luncheon, at which the Committee were guests of the University .. . a swell luncheon it was too! 
Besides Bill and Jim there was GEORGE DRIS­COLL. JOHN DROEGE, BERNARD FINNIGAN, CLARENCE HARDING,' CLIFF POTTS. GEORGE KOCH. ED LUTHER, FATHER TOM McAVOY, AL PORTA and BILL VOOR. 
On January I6th. LEO POWERS and I got the Chicago crowd together at the **Extension" maga­zine's 1949 AII-CathoHc, All-American Team Ban­quet at the Drake Hotel. There were ten of us and here's some dope on those boys who were there. LEO J. POWERS, 6241 Winthrop, practidng law and still a bachelor. CHUCK COLLINS is Vice-President of the National Carloading Corporation— has three sons, Charles 6, David 15, and Edmond 8. DAN P. HARRIS, 7759 Grandon, has a boy 7 years old. Dan is Field Division Chief of the U. S. In­ternal Revenue Office. (Today is March 15th, so Don ought to be pretty busy.) PAUL C. ROM­WEBER is still the "Furniture King" of Batesville and has two sons at Campion, ages 17 and 15. Hope JOHN HILLENBRAND, his cousin, gets back in June so FRED UHL and CHUCK STAN­HOPE, JACK SCALLON, PAUL ROMWEBEK, PHIL O'DONNELL, RITBE MOMSEN, BILL KRIDER, LEO GRACE, FRED FORHAN, JOE FITZPATRICK, CHARLIE De b VERGNE, "DOC" CONNELL, can talk about "The Lifers" and the last prep school class that Notre Dame grad­
uated .. . no diplomas but we had a class ring sold by yours truly . . . that gang must be the reason why the Class of '25 got off to such a good start. 
STEVE CORBOY looks fine and was also at the Chicago get-together . , . having just recovered from a slight heart attack. Ste\-e has two girls and a boy. BERNIE LIVERGOOD almost made it but at the last minute wasn't feeling well enough to go. BERNIE happened to call me at the Palmer House the night before the dinner. He's getting along fine after a tough heart attack—he wants to thank all of you for your prayers. EDWARD O'TOOLE is an attorney in Chicago and has two daughters headed for St. Mary's. GEORGE LOUGHLIN is with the CommonwTalth Edison Co. He has "Monty" taking his 3rd year at N.D. and his twins. Jack and Mike, headed for N.D. next year. George looks almost as young as AL SOMMERS and DAN SAMMON. JACK SCALLON is with the Pullman Standard Car Co., and has James B. 12, John W. 8 and Mary 1. Jack married Mary Cavanaugh, sister of John W. Ca\-anaugh, N.D. '28. Mary wonders if the boys hadn't seen WALLIE MET2GER of 2209 Beech­wood. 
Walt has a daughter, Nancy, at Junior College at Mundelein—^Bcrt at Qmglcy Preparatory Seminary, and Michael a Senior at St. George High. Walt is Fleet Supt. of the Bowan Dairy. Tried to get JOHN MULLEN but I understand from his brother that he is now in Boston. JOHN SHOWEL'S wife was having a birthday dinner party that night and was sorry he missed being with us, but will be "on deck" in June. HOWARD SPENCER said he would come but didn't show up. You had better make it in June, Howie, or you'll be sorry! 
My CIe\*eland visit was a very pleasant one. DON MILLER on a few hour's notice called a luncheon meeting at CHUCK ROHRS in Cleveland. Don is the U, S. District Attorney for Northwestern Ohio and doing a swell job. Don has five daughters and a son—his youngest. He has a marvelous family, and his wife. May, looks as young as his daughters. May Lynch Alillcr is a sister of the two N.D. Lynch's of Tenre Haute. JERRY XHLLER has twin boys at 
N.D. AL SOMMER has six children too. Al is the Cleveland Manager of the McCann-Erickson, Inc., one of the better advertising agendes of the coun­try. When you hear about "Guaranteed Starting" of the Standard Oil and "The Ohio Story" of the Ohio Bell Telephone—think of Al, because they are his brain children. Al and DAN SAMMON look as young as the days of *25—*cept Al wears a big black mustache—so be prepared. 
JACK CANE is with DON MILLER, as is FRANK STEEL, who could not be with us that day. FRANK CELEBREEZE couldn't make it either. Big ideas were discussed—some coming from JOHN TRAYNOR, who by the %vay, will help HARTLEY round up - the New York boys. DON .MILLER wants JOHN HARTLEY to let him know Just what train they will be on tKat Thursday night leaving New York. He will line up the Cleveland boys for it and we will get the Toledo delegation on it too, unless some of the boys drive over. 
Come by train—plane—or roller skates—but come! Send that buck for Masses and that check for the JOHN WIEBEL BfEMORIAL FUND TODAY— mth dope about yourself for the Claas IXxectocy. The Universtr is payii^ for that too. Let's go— we want DO las than 200 in attendance. Write ymir pals so they will be there too! CHAS. MOUCH writes: 
Hastily, I might say that I sincerely hope to get to Notre Dame.for the big event at least a day dur­ing the festivities. Tbe reason for the short visit is due chiefly to the foUovriiu; e^^nts takti^ place at approsdmately the same time. 
My daughter is gettii^ her cap and gown at St. Mary's on June I, my oldest son is being graduated on June 4 at Notre Dame, while the second son is finishing the preparatory period of his seminary work at the Josephinum College on the 7th. (That's in Columbus) Just to make for a busy two weeks, Charles Jr. is being married on June 12 in San­dusky. With Reunion on the &-9-10—that ought to keep me on the run, gettimp to these spots on time. 
At any rate I surely hope my legs hold out one more season, as the big league ball players put it, at about 37 years of age. 
FOR 25tfi REUNION—SEE TENTATIVE SCHEDULE, Page 35 
Your Class Secretary, Jolni P. Hariey* Tlw To­ledo Pallor Funuture CoopaDy, Toledo, Oloo. 
From BOB GORDON . . . "Here's my ofTerin:? for Masses to be said for the repose of the souls of all known deceased of the Class of 1924—also for RAHE, LAUGHLIN, CASEY, WORTH et al.. who by their silence are presumed not to be amon^ the living; but, if they are and happen to read this, I hope it gets *a rise* out of them. Have you noticed even without your bifocals, that the 1925 class notes seem to be closer to the front of the 'Alumnus?' It won't be long before we will be reading about ourselves under the following caption '1925 and prior.* Needless to say, I'll be there and will see you then." 
From DAN CONNELL . . . ''Have read your re­ports in the 'Alumnus* for 25 years—always believ­ing I would write you, but kept putting it off. Now I guess T am caught, as endosed find my dollar. Intentions were good last month, but it was much easier to fill out card and check for Memorial Room. I am married, have two sons—Daniel, HI, 3n] year at N.D., and John, 19 years of acre, study­ing here in Chicago to be an tmdertaker. Where he got the idea I don't know. I have lived in Chicago since 1 graduated from M.E. at Notre Dame, have been with the Cook County IHghway Dept-, Main­tenance Division for 21 years, and although I be­long to the N.D. Club of Chicago, and have for years, I have never gone to any of their meetings. I run into some of the N.D. men in my work— TOM and DICK NASH, JUDGE KILEY and others. Notre Dame has changed an awful lot since we were there, although I have been down fairly often since my son is there. As you know, my brother WARD "DOC" CONNELL died in 1946. I expect to write to JUDGE JOE HOWARD of Indianapolis—since I read about him in your re­pport. Believe I used to room with him on Notre Dame .Ave., my first year down there, and had for-


NAVAL RESERVE RETURNS 
FATHEB CHABLES CABEY. C& C Choplain of tha 1945 NROTC Qa w siondiiig (ex­treme left top row) with memben oi the elcna who retnmad to tha UniTaiaitr Feb. 26 for a Communion Breakfast 5-year Beuaion. Tliia i» elaimad (I^ Ilia doaa apokaamon)­to be the Universitr's firat full-fledged Naval Baaarre OfGcara TMoing daaa. 
got all about him until I read tiic Januari-Fcbruan* issue. My health is not too good—have had a couple of heart attacks, but if God wills, I will sec you all this spring at N-D. in June. Have won­dered what became of ^VELFORD E. MOORE, M.E., *25. Last I heard of him he was with Iron Fireman Company working out of Milwaukee, Wis­consin. Best regards." 
From GEORGE F. FITZGERALD . . . "It was with great regret that I read of ED AHLERING*S death jn the January-Fcbruar>' *AIumnus.* Being one of those 1925 chcm engineers, myself, I am now making plans to be there in June. JOE BACH, '25, is tlic new football coach at St. Bonas just ouUidc Glean. I will look him up wlicn he gets here to sec what his plans arc for June. I haven't been in recent toucli with *25'ers in Buffalo but if they are planning a special car for the trip I should be glad to join up. I have jtist completed 25 years with the Socony-Vacuum Oil Co. My job is slupcr\-isor in cliarge of tlic Specialities Department reporting di­rectrcct to the Assistant Superintendent. My buck is enclosed for the '25 Mass Fund with special mem­ory- of EDDIE." 
From JOHN* F. KILKENNY . . . "Find enclosed my contribution to tlic fund for Masses for the deceased members of the Class of '25. I am making dcfiinitc plans to return for the Class Reunion in June. Already I have contacted PAUL ROMWEB­ER. Sometime ago, BARNEY MacNAB advised me that- he was going to return and I have some in­formation tiiat BILL CLEMENS may appear out of nowhere at the proper time and place." 
John, I hope you can line up Bill and Barney and 

a few more and join up witli the San Francisco boys 
at a given point—at least outside of La Porte, Ind. 
Come one. Come ALL! 
Your Class Secretary-, John P. Hurley. 

1926 
$1045.00 contributed by 31 class members. 
From JOHN J. RYAN: 

"Remember '26—Prepare for *51" is taking on some substance. The Class of '26 now requires a Treasurer as well as a Secretary-. We arc in funds. $5.00! See Gerry Morsclics' story further along in the column. 
Speaking of a Treasurer presents some little prob­lem as to selection. The election of a Treasurer would be rather cimibersome, appointment of one would bring up tlie question of who was to do tlie appointing, so what about sending in your ideas of who should be the Treasurer? Perhaps it can be made a contest and the name for a candidate {or Treasurer could be accompanied by a suitable cash offer for the job. Any amount would be acceptable and tlic job would go to the highest bidder. On the contrary, if anyone is afraid of being "given" the job, a suitable contribution to the funds for the '31 reunion would help keep the job away. In any event, give the matter some thought and let's have your suggestions. 
Tliis month your Secretary sent out the usual 40 cards to members of the Class. The time rolled around a little fast so as a result tlie deadline es­tablished was a Httic quick and the percentage of replies not quite as large as the previous issues. However, there may be some more come in whicli will be held over for the next column, so if those of you who received cards feel that it is too late, get that idea out of your mind. It is never too late for there is alwa>-s anotlicr issue coming along and your story will meet that issue. 
From New York JACK ADAMS writes on the stationery of the Manhattan Refrigerating Com­pany of which he is President, that he sees JIM WHELAN, TOM FARRELL, KERNAN ^VINGER­TER, CARSON DALTON, JIM DWYER, (whom everybody sees), the old stockbroker BOB CAHILL and, of course, ED FALLON, DOC GELSON. Jack has been married since 1937 and has two chil­dren—a six year old daughter and a three year old son. 
From Donora, Pa., comes a message from Attor­ney A. V. CAPANO who after graduation attended Georgcto\**n where he got his law degree and has been practicing law since 1929. He spent several years as a \Vorkmen's Compensation Referee, some District Attorney work, and a couple of years as Secretary to Congressman Furlong. Politics must have gotten in his blood for he served two years in the Pcnnsylvatiia State Legislature and is a candidate for the same office this year. He is active in the Notre Dame Club in the Monogahcia Valley and has serx'ed the K. of C.'s as Grand Knight for four terms and as District Deputy for three. Afarricd in 1936, he has one daughter. Being near Charleroi, he sees VINCE SOISSON frequently. \Vc will look forward to seeing him at the '51 reunion. 
At the present time CLEM CROWE is getting lined up for next season on his new job as Coach of the Baltimore Colts. Clem, as you know, H-as Coacli of the Buffalo Bills for the past three years. He has spent the years since graduation in the coaching game having coaclied at St. Vincent's, La­trobe. Pa., Xavicr at Cincinnati and, of course, at N.D. during '44-'45, then Iowa and finally in the pro field. He said that when JIMMY PHE­LAN, *I7, brought the Los Angeles Dons to Buffalo last season, tlic local N.D. Club staged a typical 
N.D. pep rally in downtown Buffalo. This was something new in the pro football game. Of course, in his business, Clem gets around from coast to coast and he reports haring seen REX ENRIGHT, JIM ROACH, JAY MASENICH and, of course, his brother ED. Clem and Mary will celebrate their 25th wedding anniversary in June but he sa>-s that three graduations will give them some competition— Clem, Jr., from Purdue, Mary Rita from St. Mary's and Jim from high school. Son Bob is a Commerce Soph at N.D. while Katy and Joanne are secretar­ies in Buffalo. He then says, '*thc members of the younger unit, Dick, Ann, Johnny and Mike arc in school in Eden." If you go back and count, that is ten cliildrcn for the Crowe family whicli probably entitles CIcm to the title "Father of '26." 
A "man of distinction" su-itched to Calverts some years ago, WALT HOUGHTON jumped into the advertising business immediately after graduation and is now Advertising Manager of Calverts. Would it be possible to do a little advertising at N.D. in '51, ^Valt? Walt reports that lliey have a Junior 
N.D. Club at Calverts with JOE FRIEL, '32, JOHN ROACH, '25. Joe is Assistant Secrctan'­Treasurer of the Company and John is Director of Public Relations. Walt dropped into John's office a few weeks ago and bumped into JOE BACH, RED SMITH and several other N.D. men who are coaching. Walt has been married since 1927. He reports that he sees EDDIE DUGGAN, EDDIE BURKE, TOM FARRELL, DOC GELSON and would be glad to sec any other classmates if you have a chance to drop into his Chrysler Building office. 
My card to DON HALPIN in EI>-ria, Ohio, was answered by his mother. She was afraid that the card would not be forwared to Don in sufficient time to get an answer back for this issue. I agree with her, for Don's address is c/o Farrcll Lines, Monrovia, Liberia, West Africa. After graduation, Don joined his father in the contracting and build­ing business and continued in that line until he Went into scr\*ice in 1942. He scr\'ed all through the Southern Pacific area including the Philippines and Tokyo. While in Manilla he saw TONY ROXAS and his family. After leaving the ser\*ice Don sign­ed a two year contract w-ith Firestone and went to Africa in August of '46, then renewed his con­tract and returned again to Africa. At present he is on loan to the Farrell Lines as a construction engineer. ^Vc would like to have a full letter from Don as to his world trax'els. 
GEORGE HARTNETT called your Secretary after receiving his post card and asked for a rain check to apply on the next issue. He was pre­paring to leave town for several Weeks and felt that he would not have an opportunity to write his life's history for this issue so watch next issue for the story of Hartnctt. 
JOE HYLAND was looking over the things that accumulate on the desk and found my card which at first he thought was a notice of the next meeting of the Mothers' Club. However, he did read it, so sent in his story. Joe is one of two or three who attribute some **smartness" improperly to your Sec­retary-. Joe figures that my job is made much easier by getting you fellows to write these stories. If you didn't write them, I would not have the job and the toughest part of the job is cutting down the amount of material I get to avoid any squawks from the Staff of the "Alumnus." You fellows cer­tainly arc coming through with the information and I wish it could all be used. Joe feels that the prac­tice that many of your classmates had in their letter writing during the Brownson Hall days, should carry over the 25 years. Then, he recalls some of the pink envelopes that used to be in the morning mail reg­ularly each day. You fellows that got them will know of whom he is speaking. Joe has been married 
for 16 years and has three sons ranging from four to thirteen. For the past eight years he has been Director of Public Relations of General Aniline & Film Corp. He wants to make a blanket acknowl­edgement for tlie two tickets which he and his son, &like, used to see the North Carolina game. They seem to have come to him in a round about Way through two or three hands. Joe practiced law a few years before joining General Aniline and still maintains his law ofRcc with a partner. For a couple of years after graduation, he blew a horn and saxaphonc in orchestras but is now out of the music business since he has no '*lip," however, for his OH'n entertainment he learned to play the piano. Joe says he doesn't see too many- Notre Dame fel­lows although he does see WINGERTER now and then. 
From Indianapolis PAUL JOHNSON'S secretary acknowledged receipt of my card in Paul's absence. So we will look forward to an answer from Paul in the next issue. 
It is too bad that time 1950 could not have been 

superimposed on the years 1922 to *26. If that 
were possible some of us might have gotten better 
grades for Reverend HOWARD KENNA is Vice 
President in charge of Academic Affairs. His letter 
is written on the stationery of the Office of Di­
rector of Studies. We could have used the help of 
a classmate in that office. Fatlier Kenna says that 
he docs not have too much information on the '26 
fellows since his work is looking after their sons 
and he expects in a short time, their grandsons. 
Of the four Holy Cross priests in the class, he re­
ports that he did graduate work in math, taught 
at N.D., was made Superior at Moreau Seminary 
and after a couple of other jobs has bren named 
to his present position. Father LEO GOR^fAN is 
Vice President at King's College in Wilkcs-Barre, 
Pa., and Father EDWARD MASSART has spent 
24 years in the Bengal Diocese. Father JOE Mc-
CARTNEY has been teaching scripture at Holy 
Cross College in Washington for many years. Father 
KENN.A will welcome any classmates who visit the 
campus and hopes to be there for the 25th reunion. 
TED LEY writes from Akron, Ohio, tliat he spent 

eight years in the stock brokerage business, 7^2 
years with the Akron Brc*ring Company and for the 
past eight years he has been Office Manager of the 
Bridgewater Manufacturing Company- who make 
railroad and aircraft equipment. All of these com­
panies arc located in Akron. Ted is married and has 
a daughter 19 and Ted, Jr., 13. He sees FOREST 
SWARTZ in Akron. At present Ted is Grand 
Knight of the K. of C. Council in Akron. He plans 
to be back for tlic '51 reunion. 
JIM iL\HER writes from New York that he 

has been with Union Carbide & Carbon Corp. since 
graduation. He traveled 31 states for the company 
and during that time saw many Notre Dame gradu­
ates. For the past 15 years, he has been in the 
Ne*v York office and is engaged in publicity for the 
business. Jim got married in 1941 and he is the 
father of two boys. He figures to be back for the 
reunion. 
If the Editors of the "Alumnus" haven't cut this column and you feel like taking a long trip back to the beginning of it, you will recall that subject, "money." GERRY MORSCHES wrote me from Fort Wayne and he is counting upon a real turnout for the '51 reunion. He says "plans mean nothing without finances. How about everyone coming through with not less than $5.00 so that a program can be organized. Here's my check to start the ball rolling. Let's get a Treasury." I think Gerry has a good idea for I know that in talking with some of the other classes, tliey have had to have a slush fund to take care of the preliminary expenses but I think the Treasurer should be a separate job from the Secretary. Gerry has spent tlie years since grad­uation in the insurance business, some of them in Rocliestcr, New York and the last 20 years back in Fort Wayne. He has been married since 1930 and has three children. He has seen Father JOE TOOMEY, PUT NEWMAN, DOC GELSON and RAY DOWNS and he asked about quite a large list of other fellows whom he hopes to sec at the '51 reunion. 
From Flint, Michigan, JIM PEASON writes that he is practicing law and through his practice, comes into frequent contact with N.D. men. He reports that he sees MAL KNAUS in Detroit occasionally. Jim says that on May 16th he will celebrate his 25th wedding anniversary with the help of his wife and his three daughters and one son. He keeps rather busy in addition to the legal practice and he is a member of the school board and legal advisor to the Diocese for Flint matters. At the last Army game in New York he saw JIM DWYER, BILL 
REED, TED BERKEY and lie sa\v JOHN Mc-MULLEN at the *49 Southern Cal game for ihe first time in 20 years. Jim counts on being back in ^51. 
As an example of a hold-over letter WALTER (TRACHANO^VSKI) TROHAN wote from the Washington Bureau of the Chicago Tribune on Jan­uary the 6th. The letter was too late for the last issue so it comes up in this issue. Even though my card may show a deadline, if you get stuck send your material in an>-way, just as Walt did. It looks like *'join the Chicago Tribune and see the world" for Walt has made two trips to Europe and two to South America in addition to touring the entire country during the past 20 years. He is a Washing­ton correspondent for the **World*s Greatest News­paper." Walt is married and has a son at the Uni­versity of Arizona, another one in high school \vho wants to go to Notre Dame and a young daughter. He reports seeing JIM MAHER and CULLEN BROWN, t think he ought to be able to get back for the '51 reunion. 
That about completes the report of letters receiv­ed unless some come' through after this is written but if so, they will be added. 
Keep the letters rolling in, don't wait for an in­vitation, and "Remember *26 and Prepare for '51." 
Your Class Secretary, John J. R\-an, 1415 W. Thome Avenue, Chicago, 26, Illinois. 
1928 
$1230.50 contributed by 41 class members. { 
From LOUIS BUCKLEY: .-Vn innox'ation in class activities was undertaken with considerable success at the annual election banquet of the Xotrc Dame Club of Chicago on January 16. BILL KEARNEY and I wTote to all of the '28 men in Chicago proposing that we get together at a table at the banquet. I hope that *2S men in other large cities wU arrange similar re­unions in conjunction w^th their regular local club affairs and give me a report for this column. 
I am glad to give you the following summary report of our get-togethers in Chicago. ED Rr\F­TER. who is still single and lives near me on the west side, was kept busy answering income tax questions since Ed is with the Bureau of Internal Revenue and the affair uas held on January 16. BILL ARMIN, who has his own accounting busi­ness and specializes in taxation, did not let his work interfere with this attendance. CECIL ALEX­ANDER did some autograph collecting from the .All-American football plaj-ers present for his son. Cecil tells me that ART GOLDBERG is general counsel for the Balaban & Katz Corp. here in Chi­cago. Cecil is an insurance broker at 29 S. LaSalle St. BILL DWYER, who is married and has a fam­ily, came in from the south side for the affair. Bill is with the Raymond C. Hudson Co. in the ad­vertising business with offices at 205 W. Wacker Drive. Another bachelor, BILL MURPHY, tried his best to get a good political argument going at 
our table. Bill is with the Diversey Corp., specialized chemicals for metal cleaning. JOHN RICKORD who is manager of production control at Armour & Co.. and has three children, was with us. Our class Vicc.Pr«sidcnt. HOWIE PHALIN, who travels considerable as sales manager for the Quarrie Corp.. was in town and with us for the get-together. JIM ALLAN who looks just the same as he did in 1928, plus some weight, came in from the north side. 
The famous '28 law firm of Keamer, Korzen & Phelan at 105 W. Madison was represented by BILL KEARNEY and BERT KORZEN. CHARLES SCHUESSLER wrote that he planned to be with us, but unfortunately he did not make it. Charley mentioned that he saw PHIL QUINN recently and that he is planning to build a home in Norwood Park. Charley made the So. California game witn BILL HALLORAN, '27. Bill Is with Sears and lives in River Forest. 
ED McKEOWN \%-as unable to make our get-together as he had not progressed well enough fol­lowing his auto accident in November, 1948, to get off his crutches. Ed has been able to be at his law ofHoe a few hours each week. He v%-as preparing, however, to undergo another operation. 
I saw JOHN POLISKY recently at a Catholic ConfercnM on Industrial Problems in Steubcnville, 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
LAWRENCE TIMOTHY SHAW, 
B.S. in Agriculture, '22, is the same "Buck" Shaw who coached last year's San Francisco *49ers in the All-America Football Conference. 
Most sports writers don't know he has a first and middle name, but they do know he is respected and admired by everyone who has ever crossed his path. "A nice guy" is the accolade most frequently used to sum up his character, notable in a business where sharp practices have a fairly high occurrence rate-
Bruce Lee, San Francisco Chronicle staff writer says of Mr. Shaw: "The '49er players swear by him — many a man says he wouldn't play for anybody but Shaw, And, of course, these refer­ences are in addition to his reputation as a shrewd, canny strategist and pro­fessor of football. His record carries that testimonial." 
He became head football coach at Santa Clara University in 1936, remain­ing until that school dropped football in 1942. In 1945 he became head coach at University of California and re­signed to lead the San Francisco '49ers in the All-America Football Conference. 
Ohio. John is still single and is with the Catholic Community Center there. 
VIXCE WALSH and his wife came to Peoria from Monticcllo, 111., to attend a Te Deum forum in which I participated. Father JIM McSHANE S mother was also present and told me that Father Jim had attended school with each of the speakers at that particular forum on health Insurance. Father Jim is now in parish work at Sacred Heart Church in downtown Denver. Mrs. McShane informed me that JOHN CARROLL is married and has a family in Springfleld where he is In the construction busi­ness. I stopped In at the Illinois Valley Awming & Tent Co. in Peoria to see AL GURY, but missed him. VINCE WALSH mentioned that on his re­turn trip from the So. Cal. game he and his wife stopped overnight at a hotel in Kokomo and met TOM TRAUGHBER and JOHN BUSCHEMEYER and their families who had also been at the game. 
J had a fine visit with JOHN ANTUS recently between trains in Chicago. John was on his way from New York City to the West Coast, where he was to represent the government in custom cases m Federal Courts there. John is U' S. Spedal Attor­ney, Dcpt. of Justice, Customs Di^ion at 201 Varick St., New York City. He expected to see his old friend FRANK ZAPFONE in Spokane. It is the first time I have seen John since 1928 and we had no difficulty recogmnng eadi other. In addition TO his wfirk in Custom Court in New York, John has taught for some years at Columbia Law Scfatxil. He promised to send me a copy of the text which he wrote and uses in his class. J<^n is married and has three children. 
Speaking of authors, reminds me that JOE BREIG'S book, "God in Our House," has proved so popular that it went Into a second printing a few weeks after it was released. Keep up the good work, Joe! 
I had a note from JIM CONMEY from 2126 Albemarle Terrace, Brooklyn. Jim mentioned that he has not seen JACK WINGERTER since Christ­mas Eve in Naples in 1943. I haven't heard from Jack in some time and would like a report on him. Jim said he saw GEORGE CRONGEYER after a Notre Dame dub meeting in New York. Geoxge devotes much time to Notre Dame activities, accord­ing to Jim*s report. 
I had occasion to look over the Indiana Univer­sity bulletin and noticed where HARRY ENGEL is assistant professor of fine arts there. 
Two Christmas cards with family pictures which I received will be of particular interest to you. FRANK KELLY oC Lee, Mass., has a fine family of four girU and three boys and VINCE CARNEY of Rochellc, III., four girls and two boys. JOHN HERBERT mentioned on his Christmas card tnat GLEN HATCH is a neighbor of his in Needham, Mass. 
As indicated in the last issue, I received some ex­cellent notes from JIM SHOCKNESSY which I am pleased to gi\'e you with many thanks to Jim and his correspondents and mth the hope that they wtU inspire you to submit similar reports. I trust Jim and his correspondents will pardon the delay in printing this material. Jim wrote in December from 17 S. High St.> Columbus, Ohio, where he practices law, as follows: '*In order to report to the Alumnus I have addressed myself to some of our old friends and I am particularly delighted with the responses that I have received. I quote several paragraphs from a letter of JOHN CUL­LINAN who is a Judge of the Court of Common Pleas of the State of Connecticut and on Aforch 15 will take his place on the Superior Court of that state which is a great satisfaction to those of us to whom John is a beloved friend and a most respected associate; 
"One of my associates on the Superior Court will be Judge JAMES MURPHY, also of Bridgeport and a Notre Dame man of an earlier day, who has been serving since 1941. 
JOHN ROBINSON, our friend and classmate, who served as a naval commander during War II in charge of Selective Service for Connecticut, is how operating, as his own venture, a private day school for boys at West Hartfwd. His success has been marked since he ts recognized as an educator of integrity and ability and since he appears to ccert a wholesome influence in his contacts with the lads of the Hartford area. I see him frequenUy and he has invited me to deli\-er the commencement address at his June graduation. 
JOE McNAMARA, who, for some years after graduation was active in the legal affairs of Indi­ana, has come to Connecticut on a permanent basis and is a member of the legal staff of the Bridgeport Brass Company, one of the state's great industries, where he is regarded with respect and affection be­cause of his sound professional ability and bis un­usual character. He cherishes his Notre Dame* ties through active assodation wth the Notre Dame du b of Southwestern Connecticut. 
In mid-October I had a most welcome coi^iratula­tory mess^e from JACK MUIXEN, who is in New York and whose wocldng Ufe has been spent in the advertisii^ field, chiefly in radio and now tdevision. His activity has caxried lum from Chicago to Hol­lywood, to Washington and New York. I was de­lighted to have Jack rcnund me, and I am sure this 
memory' will give you pleasure, of the occasion when he and I as coteditors of the "Scholastic" found ourselves in the tolls of the faculty when one issue of that publication u-as suppressed by Father "Hugh"* 0*Donnell only to be released some twenty-four hours later by our grand ally. Father "Pat" Carroll. I re­call this interference with our youthful conception of free speech as ha\-iDg been the subject of one of your most violent and eloquent orations against ecclesiastical authority. I feci strongly that had the jurisdictional fight not developed between the gooa fathers. Jack and I might WTII have received our dishonorable discharges. 
EUGENE "RED" MORIARnV is at WiUiman­tic, Connecticut, operating and prospering in his independent insurance agenc>'. As I reach his part of the state, on my circuit route, we find occasion to recall old da>^ and friends. 
I am unhappy at having been shocked into the awful realization that we are substantially eligible for the quarter century club- God has been gener­ous in the extreme in matters of health, creature comforts, family happiness and all the good things in professional and pri\-ate life. I continue member­ship in the bachelor's ranks, mindful of a family sa>-ing of an old uncle who observed that, "Whether >-ou marrj* or don't, you'll live to regret it." At this point I have no regrets, although I am aware of the equally sage observation to which I must one day face up that "A single man lives like a man and dies like a dog, while a married man lives like a dog and dies like a man." 
I truly hope, Jim, that our paths *v'ill cross verj\ vcr>- soon—perhaps if not before, at the annual meeting of the American Bar Association which, I am told, is to be held in Washington in the late summer or early fall. Surely Notre Dame Law >viU arrange a reunion for Notre Dame men in the pro­fession. 

From JOHN IGOE: "Here I am in the perilous and ofttimes baffling depths of preparing to see the Southern Methodist game and later, to become a stalu-art dtizen of your city. But out of the wel­ter of mortgages, realtors, tickets and reservations I rise to your request for news because everything is positi\-ely subservient to the lure of seeing "my stuff in print." (John's new address is 2454 Ken­sington Rd., Colimibus, Ohio.) 
Last week we took in New York and the North Carolina game, but I think the Notre Darners sta>-ed close to quarters for all we encountered were South-em drawls. In one m'ght spot I met ART Mc-AfANAMON and JACK SANDERS and while we did manage a brief \Tsit on the dance floor the *c' on pone and c' on likka* were so thickly assembled that w* could only exchange ^Gd-east and Boston accents. At breakfast one morning I bumped into CHARLEY McKINNEY fresh in from his native Philadelphia. Some time ago I wrote that JOHNNY NYIKOS and JOHN POLISKY were two cham­pions in the matter of looking like students instead of 22 >-ear alumni. But the top award for smiling youth certainly belongs to CHARLEY McKINNEY. He looks like an undergraduate who is trv-ing out for quarterback, trim, neat and discouraging—to us bald pated oldsters. Coming out of St. Patrick's I managed to yell hcUo at DR. D.AN BRADLEY and handshake BILL DOOLEY—but there was no chance to exchange gossip. Like all hicks Mary and I took a carriage ride through Central Park. On the return trip someone hollered at us. It was BILL CAVANAUGH who was getting a laugh out of our mode of transportation. I yelled back that we had just driven in from Da>ton. In the lobby of the Commodore I had a chance to taiK with FRANK DONOVAN. He w-as chaperoning the team and doing a fine job of welcoming all visitors. Remember JOE JACHYM? He was a basketball and baseball 'great' of our times. I met Joe after the game and we had a short chat. Joe is in the school s>3tem of New Jersey but his connection has not dampened his afTability. Coming home we had CHET and Kathcrinc RICE, DICK and Ann PHELAN meet us at the airport. Dick and his wife were having an outing in Cleveland and we had a grand time reminiscing and talking about "the good old days." I almost forgot to tell you about the top treat of our Manhattan junket. We went out to the home of RES BERETZ, '27, for a wonderful dinner of chicken paprikas. Res and Martha, his lovely wife, are most hospitable and the afternoon literally flew away on the wngs ot conversation. We had a date to meet CHARLES BERETZ after the game but our plan ran afoul of 
the traffic jam created by North Carolinians leaving New York. * 
From MARTY RINI I quote several paragraiUis: 
"DR. JOHN VIKTORYN who was a star varsity 
basketball player at Notre Dame and who subse­
quently graduated from Western Reserve Medical 
School is located at 3789 East 131st Street and is 
presently supporting a wife and four children on 
the income from his flourishing practice. 
SYLVESTER MOBILY who graduated from the Pharmacy School with the class of '28 is maiu^er of the Standard Drug Company Store at I31st Street and Miles Avenue, dev^nd , Ohio. His oldest daughter, Giovanna, graduates from Notre Dame College this June. A younger daughter, Kathleen, graduated from Notre Dame Academy in June of '47 and is presently in nurse's training. A young son, Joe, eight years of age, is presently attencUng St. Timothy's Parochial School. 
JOHN COLEANGELO, a graduate of the Engi­neers' School, finally married two years ago and has been one of the more important ofHccrs of the Lom­bardo Construction Company of Cleveland wluch docs a lot of work for the count>' and state. 
PAUL ROBERTO who graduated with the class of '27 but who attended many classes with the class of '28 died in the Cleveland Clinic last May." 
From NORB SEIDENSTICKER: Last summer my wife and myself visited ROSS HARRINGTON at Richmond, Ind., for a day. I was fortunate that Ross was spending his \'acation at home that week. It seems as if his hay-fever is usually at its best about that time so he stays au-ay from the practice of Law. His wife, two sons and new home are all very, very nice. (A note to anyone that might stop in Richmond and play golf: Be sure to see that your locker is locked. I didn't.) 
In the past few )-ears I have occasionally seen AL TEHAN at Springfield, Ohio. He is connected with Robinson-M>*ers of that city. At the last count Al had four children, three bo>s and one girl. He is occasionally seen in Columbus by JO-JO RIGNEY who still daims ChiUicothe as his home. Joe gener­ally calls me and gives me a report on Al. 
I told >'0U, Jim, that the amount of information that I had to offer was limited so I am now down to m>'sclf. At the present I have five children, three girls and two boys, a girl of two months being the youngest. You may assume that I am married. I have a ver>' (at this point you may insert all the superlatives that e\'er>*onc has used about their friends' wives) wife. The Chillicothe Paper Com­pany has known my presence here since the year of graduation and no doubt will continue to do so. 
From GEORGE KELLEY: I'm afraid I'm com­pletely sterile, for LOU BUCKLEY'S purposes. I sent him a note about my poor situation as a news correspondent a few months ago, and he apparcndy u-as in such bad shape that he used it. S'othing worthy of publication has happened to me, and I'm the only '28 man within miles and miles. 
From FRANK STROHM: Your letter of Novem­ber 17 will not get you \*ery much information but at least I am pleased to acknowledge your request. 
In Columbus, I occasionally see JOE KINNEARY, First Assistant Attorney General of Ohio; JOHN R. MURPHY, insurance, and JOHN FONTANA, at­torney. A recent high school reunion was made more enjo>-able for me by the presence of NORB SEIDENSTICKER, from ChiUicothe, Ohio. He is treasurer of the ChiUicothe Paper Company. BOB GRAHAM recently wrote me a note from Chicago where he is a partner in the law firm of Gardner, Carton & Douglas. 
From JOE RIGNEY: You and your damned activ­ities alumnij—and since when have you and that Buckley got so clubby,—intruding on an otherwise peaceful Sunday afternoon. 

You know I'm no good at letters filled with newsy notes on people, and I find myself sorely tempted to call you 1-d coUect at some ungodly hour and fill your ear with lots of unprintable matter, but since I find this creaky Corona reposing nearby I shall relent just this once, so make a deep bow towards ChiUicothe and give added thanks for rooking me into what you would refer to as a clambake of sorts. 
JOHN BYRNE BUSCHEMEYER, Louisville, Ky., is prcsendy Administrator of Louisville City Hospi­tal,—and recendy made a Director on the Board (National) of Hospital Admimstrators of the U. S-On the side he's established himself as an authority and one of the country's top Judges of English BuU Dogs, so if you want a blue ribbon in that class see him sometime. His brother, Charles, who slept through our dass is a Professor of sorts at Louis­ville Univeraty. 
J. THOMAS TRAUGHBER, Clarksyille, Tenni*­see, is presently engaged in the practice of law in that place and NashviUe, engaging on the side in a political career as a State Representati\-e. 
JOE MONTEDONICO. erstwhile of Memphis, is an executive with The Washington Gas, Light Com­pany, D. C , and lives with his brood of four over in Bethesda, Maryland. 
From JOHN McSORLEY, JR.: Jim, you couldn't ha\-e picked a poorer source of information on the Notre Darners. I am ashamed to acknowledge that I have been very inactive in our local Notre Dame affairs. We have a representative alumni group here who hold weekly luncheon meetings and other functions throughout the year but I have been ex­ceedingly lax in my attendance. The reason for this is that my ofiice is in another end of the city and, frankly, I am just too laz>* to make the effort to attend. 
My conscience has dri\'en me to make the annual retreat with the Notre Dame group for the past sev­eral >'ears and, each time, I plan to become acti­i-ated but somehow never got around to it. 
Here are a few notes, which you might use in your next correspondence with our esteemed secre­tary, on some of our classmates whom I sec occa­sionally. 
JACK SHEEDY—Married, has four children, prom­
inent in the insurance business. 
TO M McMAHON—Married, has three children, is 
Administrative Fellow of Industrial H>'giene at the 
Mellon Institute. 
AL DIEBOLD—Married, no children as >et, is as­sociated with his father in the lumber business. BILL STEITZ—President of the W. M. Sauer Plumbing Co. which is one of the biggest in the city. Also has the Columbus office. FRITZ WILSON—Married, has five children at this writing, Mr. Notre Dame of the Pittsburgh district, is clothing merchant in between scouting and attending Notre Dame games. Also has dis­tributing agency for Miller's High Life Beer. 
As for myself, I think you know about my fam­ily which now consists of three bo>-5 and two girls. 
I received a letter today from HUDSON JEF­FERYS wherein he sa>s that Ins territory is sort of a Notre Dame \-acuum but mentions that JOE NORTON is in Charleston, West Virginia, his home­town, with Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation, and that he occasionaUy sees CHARLIE REITZ who owns a music and appliance store in Ports­mouth, and that RALPH NOLAN, his old room­mate ^'f Joplin, Missouri, writes to him c\ery Christmas but that thej- never get together between times. 

In Columbus, JOHN FOXTANA is a ver>- sucr cessful practitioner at the Bar and is highly re­spected by his profession and our community. JOE KINNEARY of Cincinnati, as has been reported be­fore in The Alumnus, is the First Assistant Attor­ney General of Ohio and is doing a job of which Notre Dame can be proud. P.\UL FALTER has given many \-ears of excellent service to the Indus­trial Commission of the State of Ohio and JOHN MURPHY of the Nortliweslcrn Mutual Life Insur­ance Company has an office on the same floor of the building wherein we have our offices and I see him frequently. He is just as busy as we remember he always was as a student at Notre Dame. I con­unue in the cvcr\- day practice of the law in Co­lumbus and further deponent saith not. 
Your Class Secretar>-, Louis F. Buckley, 4700 W. .Adams Street, Chicago 44, Illinois. 
1929 
I 
I $4363.75 contributed by 44 dass mcmbcn. 
From DON PLUNKETT: 

During the Christinas Holidaj-s eight members of the Biology Dept. represented Notre Dame at the AAAS (Sdence) meeting in New York. While there I had the pleasure of seeing JIM O'CONNOR, JIM (RED) CURRY, JOE FRIEL, JOE LENI­HAN, BOB McVETY, DR. JOHN L. SULLIVAN 
and GENE CONNELLY. '32. BOB McVETY re­ports that he was in Coming, N. Y., recently and called on MICKEY McMAHON'S motber, that he sees HANK BURNS (Paper Boxes) of Tonawanda often. Bob reports that he is living in Flushing and that he and Kate are keeping busy with Bar­bara 14, Ann 12, Jim 8. and Cassie 2. JIM KIS­SLING, '28, their best man, is practising law in Flushing and the Kisslings have thrtse girls. The JOHN LEDDY'S have moved to a new home in Freeport, N. Y. One of John's biggest problems is Christmas shopping as he has twenty-four pieces and nephews in N. Y., Mich., and Ind. Mrs. Leddy is tfae fcnrmer Teresa Ryan who was secretary for the Mayor of South Bend during our school days. 
McVETY had me over to lunch at GENE CON­NELY'S, '32. Gene has two fine restaurants at 200 and 110 East Twenty-third St. and the service and food are excellent. 
DR. JOHN L. SULLIVAN, 620 Park Avenue, is a surgeon and is associated with the St. Vincent, 
N. Y., and Gouvcrncur Hospitals. John received his MD from Northwestern in 1935 and has been teach­ing general surgery at Cornell Medical. I had din­ner with the Sullivans and brought John up to date on happenings at Notre Dame since his graduation. John's wife, Dorothy, is an interior decorator. John would like to hear from DRS. JIM TOBIN, PHIL HIMMING, GEO. McDONNELL, ART FLEM­ING, ART MORLEY and JOHN SIMONES con­cerning our 25th Silver Jubilde anniversary. 
Had an enjo^-able visit and lunch with JOHw FRIEL and JOE LENHIAN. Friel is secretary and assistant treasurer of Seagrams, lives at 14 Main Ave., Rock\^lIe Center, has a fine family of thrcte boys and three girls and is very active in N.D. Alumni work. Lenihan is manager of Fromm and Sichel (Christian Brothers wines and Paul Masson champagnes) lives at 153 Beach 131 Stitet, Belle Harbor, Long Island. 
The Lenthans (Dolores Friel) have one daughter, Sharon, about six. The two Joes entertained tne Notre Dame delegates and their guests at a party in the Statler one night and it was an excellent dis­play of hospitality and good fellowship. Both have signed up for the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of our class, and Lenthan is bubbling over with plans, pro­cedures and h\v/c prints for the big Reunion. Plan to be here! 
Also saw JIM O'CONNOR who is in Public Re­lations with the N. Y. Telephone Co. Jim was rccendy discharged from the Air Force as a full Colonel. We took a ride on the famed Long Island 
R.R. and it is all that has been said. We went out to Great Neck to attend the 17th Wedding Anni­versar>- of JIM and Kathryn CURRY and had a most enjo>-able evening. Among those attending u-ere daughter Sheila 8, JIM O'CONNOR'S sister Mary, and DR. JOHN D. MI2ELLE, editor of our "American ^lidland Naturalist." Red Curry put on a complete celebration and it was a delight­ful \hiU Curry and O'Connor ga\^ me some news bits on a number of the iwcnty-niners and these items I'll include in the next "Alumnus" column. 
DICK NOWERY wltes: "Serxed on a job for 
*PINKY' CASSIDY of New Orleans recently. 'PINKY' (Wm. E.) CASSIDY can be itached c/o Sales Dept. of the Texas Co. and was state chairman for Oil Industry Information Committee and did a swell job. Attended the SMU game but did not see anyone from N.D.; we sta>-ed out in the suburbs of Dallas at the home of friends and did not get down town to mix in the crowd." 
Secy-Dick did a tremendous job in preparing the directory, "The 29ers at Twenty" bcfotis our twen­tieth reunion and was past seiaetary for this class. Dick is president and owner of the Nowery Drilling Co. Inc. and can be reached at 613 Ardis Bldg., Shre\1eport, La. He is active in N.D. Club, K of G, Country Club and Association of Oil Well Drill­ing Contractors. Dick and his wife, Bess have two sons. Charles II. Tnmcs 14. and Patsv 5 years of age. 
HAROLD E. STEIXBACHER (Circuit Judge-Battle Creek, Mich.) writes: "I have heard from WALT O'MALLEY, a dassmatte of ours who is and has been judge in Aurora, 111. He sat in Chicago on that famous case regarding the child and surgery which you probably read. Another dassmate, TOM McDOUGAL, is a judge in Antigo, Wise. ARNOLD LEWANDOWSKI is and has been practidng law in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Arnold ^vas formerly ."Vsst. Prosecuting Attorney for Kent County and did a fine piece of work. I am coming down to Notre I>ame soon and I shall certainly contact you. Am also planning to be at the 23th Reunion." 
Sec>--Harold has been a practicing attorney in Battle Creek since his graduation and has been act-

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
CHARLES J. DUCEY, '28, president of the New Haven, Conn., Community Chest, has been honored Twith the Charles Carroll of CarroUton Medal, awarded annually to an outstanding Catholic citizen. 
Mr. Ducey received the award from the John Barry Assembly, Fourth De­gree Knights of Columbus. Bernard E. Farrell, charter member of the assem­bly, gave the testimonial address, say­ing: "To Mr, Ducey fraternity is not an ideal, but a principle of life; it is not a life of seclusion but a life of activity in the community." 
Praising Mr. Ducey for his patriot­ism, John B. Donahue, editor of Colum­bia, said, "To a Catholic patriotism is a moral obligation. A Catholic who is true to his Church cannot be false to his country because he has no problem of divided loyalty. He has combined loyalty; his religion and his patriotism come in one package." 
Mr. Ducey, who earned an M.A. de­gree at the University in 1928 was or­ganizer and first president of the Holy Name Society of St. Kita's Parish, Hamden, Conn., and an instructor in the New Haven Diocesan Labor Schools for two years. 
He was the first president of the Travelers' Aid Society of New Haven and is a board member of the Visiting Nurse Association of New Haven. 
Mr. Ducey's activities in behalf of community betterment include service as chairman in 1948 of the Greater New Haven Community Chest and as its president in 1949. He is chairman of the Hamden Library Board and a mem­ber of the American Library Asso­ciation. 
He is married, the father of one daughter and lives in Hamden, Conn. 
ing mayor on sevenl occasions. He has been BCtn« in Demociatic party circles and was recently Kp­pointed judge by Governor G. Mennon Willianw. Ai chairman of the Labor Mediation Board he helped to negotiate and Attle labor disputes invohnng the KeOogg Co., Oliver Farm Equip, and Battle CnA Gas Co. 
OR. PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW (Prot. of IV>­litica] Science at NJ>.) dropped this note "1 receiv­ed a letter the other dav from my old roommate MARCELLUS KIRCHNER, yAm hai been ill with TB in a sanitarium at Memphis, Tenn. He has been malting excellent progress and recently retunled to his old job in Winston-Salem, N. C , where he has acquired a new home and a new car. He would like to hear frcmi his old friends and can be reached at RB 4300 Block, Country Club Road, Winston-Salem. On a recent trip to Ohio I saw JIM ASK­EY. He has returned from California where he was for sometime, and is now located in Lorain, Ohio. Also MIKE O'KEEFE who has sold his farm near Salem and is now managing a hotel at St. Mary's, Ohio, and doing very well at it." 
Secy-Paul is active in Republican I^ty Polidcs and is head of the County .Republican Group. He and Agnes have two fine sons, Tom and Bob, and live at 415 Pokagon St. near the N.D. golf coune. At the New York, National meetings of the Amer­ican Political Sdenct- Associatioa, in December Paul gave an excellent paper, **The Pathology of De­mocracy in Latin America." 
BILL CROTTY (Crotty Corp., Quincy, \Cch.) writes: *'Many thanks for the extra copy of the Alumnus. Please pass this check along to JIM ARMSTRONG and tell him to have tbe Founda­tion take care of the Professors of Biology as this is an important science. Give my best wishes to the class of '29 and Tm getting back to making parts for all those fine Oldsmobiles you see jetting by." 
''Spirited Preparation^*—Q,tuck Magarne, Dec. 12, 1949 
"Members of Harvard's Class of 1929 began preparations for their 25th reunion in 1954 by pur­chasing 1,500 gallons of liquor which will age till the great occasion. An lestimated 350 alumni will be there in 1954—about one for each five gallons." JOE FRIEL, do you have suggestions for N.D. 
1929? Your class sec*y recently wrote to the Har­vard '29 scc'y and offered to stoite the abm-e in the Dillon Hall basement until their reunion, also the sec'y challenged the Harvard '29 Class to a baseball game in the Badin Bog come June, 1954. We'll bring tbe bat. 
FRANK J. BELTING (Suncrior Metal Products Co., St. Paul) writes: "The Notre Dame group, in general, have been very active duHng the holidays. I have seen all of the 29Vrs here in St. Paul and Minneapolis. BOB SCHULTZ, BOB VOGLE­WEDE, ED KRICK and myself attended the Notre Dame Christmas formal at the Radisson Hotel. They had a very fine attendance and tbe dance was a finandal as well as a social success. BOB SCHULTZ just completed a very beautiful recrea­tion room in his home in Minneapolis and held open house New Ytear's Day and the following Monday. We met numerous Notre Dame people there. 
About a month ago I receivied a phone call &om TOM RYAN. He was in tbe Twin Cities for a short stay but is living at Glen EUyn, Illinois. I understand that AL SEBESTA is also a resident of Glen EUyn. We lived there three years ago and Al moved into town just prior to our leaving for the Twin Cities. 
I tried to locate FATHER OTIS WINCHESTER when I was in Cleveland in November, but be was not in when I called. He has been very busy on many activities at St. Malachy's Parish and the Catholic Universe Bulletin has been giving his ac­tivies some publicity. Have not seen LOU REGAN over the holidays but 1 know he is still at Seais, Roebuck and still active in Notre Dame affairs." 
DR. JOHN A. VAICHULIS (Dept. of CUm'cal Science, Uiuv. of lUinob) can be contacted at 100 Barnard Road, Manteno, HI. The Vaichulis* have two boys and one girl, and John is interested in therapeutic procedures for the U. of HI. and writes: "At tbe Tulane game I saw FRANKLYN DOAN, BERT METZGER, BOB TROTTER, JOE MOR­RISSEY and a few other N.D. boys. Of course I have been seeing FREDDIE MILLER and KOZAK quite regular in the dresnng room after the games. 
"In Dallas I met BERNIE BIRD from Louisi­ana. I came flown on the train with tbe team, so natturally I did not get a chance to mix much till 
The Notre Dame Ahimnus 
after the game. The Dallas N.D. Club gave a nice party for us, so did the DAVE COWDENS, SHEAS, JIM SWIFTS and WALTER FLEOTNGS. I bc­He\'e the latter was about our time. FRITZ WIL­SON, KOZAK and FREDDIE MILLER were on the team train. At the football banquet, at South Bend, at my table was LARRY STAUDER and JOSEPH McGINNIS. No need of my saj-ing that it was a huge success. &IARSHALL KIZER and FATHER OTIS WINCHESTER were there. My big thrill came after the banquet when the 1949 squad ga\-e me an autogiaphed ball. BERNIE CRIMMINS deser\'es a big assist on this one." 
EARL LEACH (622 Gladstone Ave., S.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan} writes: "IVe relived those few da>:s last June a hundred times and it recalled and created memories 1*11 never forget as long as I live. You did more than your share to make it the suc­cess it was." Secy-Earl is active in K of C ana 
N.D. Club and he and Margaret have a fine family of Dick 15, John 14, Larrj- 12„ and Mar>- 7. Earl would Uke to hear from JIM CURRY, JOHN CUSHMAN, and DOC DOUGHERTY. FLORIS LEACH, Earl's brother, can be reached at 515 E. Valencia, Burbank, Calif. 
JOE FRIEL (Secretar>- and Asst. Treasurer of Joseph E. Seagrams & Sons, Inc.) in the Cho-sler BIdg., New York, reports the follou-ing alumni in the Chrysler BIdg. JACK ROACH (Calverts); WALTER HAUGHTO.N (Calverts); D.\N NL\­HONEY (Seagrams); JIM FRIEL (Parmacraft); and JOE FRIEL (Seagrams). 
The class secretary received holiday season greet­ings from CLETUS SCHNEIDER, FR. LOUIS J. THORNTON, C.S.C., FR. JOHN MOLTER, C.S.C., BOB McVETY, LARRY STAUDER, ANDY BOYLE, JOHN CUSHMAN, MURRAY GLASGOW, DAVE CAMPBELL, JOE DAUTRE­MONT, EARL LEACH, GAVLORD HAAS, PAUL BARTHOLOMEW, BUCK SLACK, JOE L.'MJB­ER, inCKEY McMAHON, JOE FRIEL, JOE LENIHAN, TOM McDOUG.\L and FR. OTIS WINCHESTER. 
Here arc some new addresses and locations of '29eK: Wm. A. Gorman, U. S. Public Health Scr\-ire, D 
Dept., New York Cit>-, N. Y. Dr. Philip C. Heming, c/o Walker Clinic, Eugene, Ore. Louis F. Niczcr, 503 Fort W3\*ne Bank BIdg., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
H. A. Schimberg, 361 Park Terrace, Cedar Rapids, la. Ralph Zimmerman, 5505 Go\'ance .\ve., Baltimore, Md. Louis Sinclair, 82 Wiltshire Ave., Battle Creek, Mich. 
Edmund Garrity, 1841 West I07th St., Ch;cago, III. Joseph Morell. Jr., 189 Montague St., Brooklyn, 
N. Y. Wm. J. Coyne, 1537 Upshur St., Washington, D. C. Frank Doan, 135 So. LaSalle St., Chicago, 111. Rev. Gregory Eicbenlaub, O.S.B., St. Michael's 
Rectory, Gastonia, N. C. James J. Fitzpatrick, 7532 Warner Ave., St. Louis. 
Mo. Rev. James P. Gibbon, C.S.C, St. Edward's Unii-er­
sity, Austin, Texas. Charles Hoover, 903 S. 4th Ave., Maj-wood, III. John Hooveri 609 Wash. Blvd., Oak Park, lU. Daniel McCain, 7353 Coles Ave., Chicago, HI. Dr. Joseph V. SdUa, Willow Run Village, Willow 
Run, Kfich. 
Twenty-six Classes have been celebrated since our twentieth reunion by priests from our class. If you wish to increase this number let me know. 
DR. LEWIS J. CAREY (Dept of Economics, Mississippi State College) writes: "Since leaving Notre DarrK my career has been as follows; June-August, 1931, I taught in the Summer School of the West Branch of Univ. of Texas at El Paso. From Sept. 1931 until July 1949 I taught at Superior State College, Superior, Wise In Sept. 1949, I ac­cepted a position as Professor of Mone>' and Bank­ing in the School of Business and Industr\- of Miss. State College. 
Am engaged in a real estate business here in Starkville, Miss., on a small scale and in a vaccine business in Chicago. Am married and have a daugh­ter, Emily, aged 15, who will begin her prcmcdical course at Miss. State in June. 
How fast the years have passed since I left Notre Dame. However, I often think of my good friends and cronies there. Kindly remember me to FA­THERS JOHN RYAN, CAREY, MILTNER and }>L\KR; also to "BIG MAC" and to DR. DAN O'GRADY. I have published Lectures on the New Deal, Superior, Wise, 1934, and Article in Miss. Valley Historical Review, De c 1934, on George Rogers Clark's Military Control of the Old North­west." 
LOUIS SINCLAIR (News editor—BatUe Creek, Mich., Enquirer and News) writes: '*I am working in a den of Michigan Graduates and it has been hot and heavy through the recent football seasons. At present I feel that I am on top. BOB WARD is practicing in Marshall and seldom gets over this way. HAROLD STEINBACKER is our new judge and is well received, and ED BAU&l is our general insurance agent and doing an excellent job. 
"As for mjself I am happily married and have two sons, sixteen and twelve, and a daughter eleven. Both sons have their e>-e on South Bend following High School." 
Your class secretary, Don J. Plunkett, Biology Department, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1930 

20-yEAR REUNION June 9, 10, II 
I 
$83630 contributed by 37 class members. 
From HAROLD DUKE: 
FRANK D. ifcGINNITY, '50, is now in business wiili Fred Grocbe Plumbing and Heating, 5705 E. Dunes Highway, Gary, Indiana. 
Friends of JOHN CRAWFORD REDGATE— "Bus" to them, arc reminded that he is still at Gaylord Farms, Wallingford, Conn., and anxious to get mail. 
BUS is a doubtful starter for the Reunion sweep­stakes, but would like to hear from the members of the class. So far JOHN LAW, FRANK O'BRIEN, TIM MOONEY and BOB BRENNAN have come through. Bus reports. 
From LOU BERARDI: 
Mr. FRANK LEAHY and Mr. Berardi have opened a pharmacy, the Toluca Pharmacy, 4107 W. Alameda Ave., Toluca Lake, Burbank, Calif. 
For 20th REUNION—SEE TENTATIVE SCHEDULE, PAGE 35 
Your Class Secretary, Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
1932 
$108730 contributed fay 50 class members. 
From JIM COLLINS: 
ED\VARD \\\ MEHREN, '32, Chairman of the Board of the American Institute for Intermediate Coinage, 202 South Hamilton Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif., has written an article in the November is­sue of the '^Kiwanis Magazine" concerning the proposed I'Ac and 2YzC coins, which is in the form of a bill in the Senate at present. 
Your Class Secretary, James K. Collins, 17 Tri­angle Avenue, Da>ton 9, Ohio. 
1936 
$659.00 contributed by 45 class members. 
From JOE MANSFIELD: 
JOSEPH G. NEUWIRTH is district manager for the C. W. Stuart & Co. of Newark, New York. He and his wife reside at 287 Sprague Avenue, Kingston, Pa. 
Year Class Secretary-, Joseph F. MansCeld, 349 Weaver St., KFO No. 4, Greenwidi, Conn. 
1937 
I  $745.00 contributed by 48 class members.  j  
I  ^1  
From FRANK J.  REILLY:  

Things are looking up. So far we have received CDC letter, a couple of phone calls, two personal visits, and had chance meetings with or heard in­directly of the acttrities of several other members of our class. Albeit duplication exists in the afore­mentioDed list, it is productive of at least a couple of ''sticks" of news as the boj's in the trade call it. 
JACK GILLESPIE of Westfield, N. J., and secre­tary of the United States Cuban Sugar Council, even went to the trouble of uriting a letter. Jack and I lunch together occasionally or converse ria telephone. He writes: "Knowing >-our great need of material for the ALUMNUS, I'm passing on some dope about my roommate, FRANK LESSELYONG. I understand he*s seldom given the ALUMNUS any information, so I'll do what I can. 
"Frank was in New York through March 17. He is a sales mana^r for the plastics division of Dough­boy Industries, New Richmond, Wis. The outfit makes plastic toy-s and equipment for children— wading pools, Santa Clauses, 'Schmoos,' sea iileds, etc He was here at the American Toy Fair, ex­hibiting his company's products and taking orders. I had dinner with him March 7. He was staying at the Hotel New Yorker. 
*'Frank has been married 10 years; has a daughter. Jane, 8; and a son, Johnny, 4. Still mad about golf; hasn't changed much since I saw him in 1937. 
"Before joining Doughboy Industries, which alMi. in fact, principally manufactures feed, he was wTtn Ktmberley-Clarfc (paper) and U. S. Rubber. 
*'I*U take ten cents an inch for this news," Jack closes, to which I say it's a deal. 
Jack makes the second one of "DOC" COONEY'S '37 products to supply us with information for as many issues. How about some of >'ou other journal­ists: McHUGH, McCLAIN, HARTLEY, etc., com­ing through with letters, telegrams, and postcards telling us about your whereabouts, friends, families, etc.? 
I was at the New Yorker the evening of the day I received Jack's letter, but only stayed briefly to change clothes for the big drug dinner held in New York. At that dinner I met ED HUISKING—he of the four daughters. Ed, as I may have mentioned before, is largely unchanged, with the exception of a few extra pounds. 
BILL SHARP, originally of Summit, New Jersey, more recently of Kansas Cit>', Mo., has been trans­ferred by his firm. International Paper Company to New York, wbere he has taken over as sales manager. At lunch Bill told me he is now the proud papa of three kiddies. Bill HI, four years; Mar>* Ann, two; and Sally, three months. 
While in Kansas Citv, the Sharps were attended bv DR. JIM DOWNEY of our class. Other .Notre Dame men with whom Bill was in contact in Kan­sas City are ED REARDON, GRAHAM OWENS, both '37, and VINCE DeCOURSEY, '38. He also mentioned baring seen BERNARD MARTY, the big drug man of Decatur, III., and DELANCEY D.AVIS. The latter a dweller of the City of Brotherly Lo\-e or the Unburied Dead, depending upon your point of riew, where he sells his labor to Baldwin Loco­motix'e Works. 
I can just see Delancej' pushing around one of those 8-4-4-2 mountain types, can't you? Some years ago, while he was in Naval serrice, I saw Bill Sharp in New York. If he has changed at all, I'd say he has matured, lost much of that boybh look. 
A call from "PINKY" CARROLL was productive of the information that ED RORKE is with In­ternational Cementen, Casper, Wyoming; .AL SCHWARTZ was voted "Man of the Year" in Salina, Kansas; BOB SIEGFRIED of Tulsa had flown up to Salina. My notes are a bit obscure as to the reason for the flight, but I believe it H-as for a tvedding. "Pinky" also mentioned EUGENE LING of Hollywood. 
.^ain, although my nobes are not particularly trustworthy on the point, I belie\e Gene was voted 

Volume 28, No. 2, March-April, 1950 
one of the ten best screen writers for color films. Gene, by the way, also has to his credit the writing of the script for the first Christopher motion pic­ture, "You Can Change the World," made at the behest of the famous Christopher priest^ James Kel­ler, of the Maryknollers. Gene shares the writing honors of the picture with Richard Breen. 
The script and stills from the picture are being distributed in booklet form by the Christophers. The script is a peach, and the picture should be a "honey.'* It is going to be shown before Christo­pher groups all over the U. S. If you have an opportunity to see it, by all means do so. 
BEN SCHERER has been in the office a few times lately. In his letter, as you recall, JACK HURLEY mentioned having seen Ben. A school teacher of history for the past three years in Greenwich, Conn., Ben has just stepped out of the profession to try to break into the writing field. Previously, he had edited a house organ for a firm in Stamford, Conn., where he saw ED GANNON, who works there, and BOB WILKIE, a resident of Stamford. Ben lives in Port Chester, New York. He is married and reports seeing HERB KENYON" occasionally. 
Another New Yorker from the Class of '37 who is distinguishing himself in local Notre Dame Alumni Club affairs is BILL FALLON of New Rochelle. Bill was recently elected \-ice-prcsident of the Notre Dame Club of New York. Speaking of that organi­zation, two '37 graduates were guest speakers at recent club meetings. FATHER JOE ENGLISH, M.M., showed the MaryknoU film, "The Miracle of the Blue Cloud Country." 
Following which, Joe spoke briefly on the order and its work. By the way, Joe lost his father rather recently. The other *37cr on the speaker's list is VINCE HARTNETT, who discussed the Red inva­sion of the radio and entertainment fields. An over­riding loyalty to my duties at home was the only thing that could possibly have prevented me from attending both those meetings. 
News by indirection includes the fact that RAY­MOND FOLEY, father of Paul, was the author of a recent article on housing in the magazine section of the New York Times. Also from a Michigan correspondent on my publication, I lean that FRED GAST of Grand Rapids is now vice-president of his father's cleaning material and supply firm, about which I published a news item in a recent issue. 
ED HOYT, who has been Iiospitalized for quite a stretch at Veterans* Hospital here tn the Bronx, is out now and back on the job. The Hoyts recently moved to Fairlawn, New Jersey. 
Another neighbor and classmate of mine who ac­quired his own home is TOM HUGHES and com­pany. Tom, Helen, and the three children are now living in Tuckahoe, N. Y. 
Other changes of addresses reported recently in­clude those of CHARLES DUFFY, who switched from Prince Street to 901 Chippewa Street, Grand Rapids, Michigan; JACK KING'S latest address is 342 N. Walnut Street, Columbia City, Indiana, a change from Peoria, Illinois. 
JACK HURLEY has left the Advertising Divisions of General Electric and will now be in charge of initiating and coordinating a sales training program for GE's distributor salesmen. 
Your Cbss Secretary, Frank J. Reilly, 1651 Metro­politan Avenue, New York City 62, New York. 
1938 
$1630.50 contributed by 73 class members. 
WALTER J. MONACELLI, Doctor of Chemistry and holder of a law degree, has moved up to the position of assitant of the patents section of Kop­pers Company, Inc. He was a patent attorney with Industrial Rayon Corp. before joining Koppcrs in 1947. 
CHARLES M. CALLAHAN, of the University athletic publicity office, was honored Mar. 13 in Kansas City at the National Association of Inter­collegiate Basketball awards luncheon. He received recognition for "ouutanding work in the field of sports publicity." 
Your Class Secretary, Charles M. Callahan, Sports Publicity Dept., Notre Dame, Ind. 
1939 
$969.00 contributed fay 70 class members. 
THOMAS B. HOGAN was on campus to inter­view students on March 20, for Haskins and Sells, 67 Broad Street, New York City. It was his first trip back to the campus in almost ten years. 
Your Class Secretary, Vincent DeCourscy, 1917 Elizabeth, Kansas City 2, Kansas. 
1940 

lO-YEAR REUNION June 9, 10, 11 
$1311.25 contributed by 77 class members. 
I 
From ROBERT G. SANFORD 

We have just received a change in address of Dr. THOMAS A. LcSTRANGE from 9M Childs Ave., Drexcl Hill, Pa., to 339 Coast Lo Jolla, Calif. 
LAWRENCE I. FERGUSON \V3s not included in the printed class roster mailed to all class members on reunion plans. His address is Momingstde Hotel, South Bend, Ind. 
From Reunion Chairman: 
Arrangements for the 10-ycar reunion are pro­ceeding satisfactorily with the general arrangements committee settling the details for the Friday night stag, the Memorial Mass Saturday morning and the availability of refreshments in the hall to in­clude our class, will be assigned. Members of this local committee include LARRY FERGUSON (whose name, incidentally, was inadvertently omit­ted from the class roster), CHUCK MANGER, BOB SULLIVAN, WALTER SWEITZER, and WAYNE WAHL. A general meeting of the 30-odd members of the class who are located in the vici­nity of South Bend will be held this month to dis­cuss the detailed arrangements for the entire week­end. 
Incomplete and early replies indicate that PAUL GLASS intends to come from Los Angeles; BILL TOBIN and LOU RILEY from Washington, D. C ; HAL BOWLER from Joliet, Illinois; BOB FROST from St. Joseph Michigan; JAKE BRODBERGER from Cincinnati, and, of course, BOB SANFORD from Milwaukee. Dith a little effort, we should be able to muster 250 to 300 for the weekend. So get on the ball and write a few fellows who you would like to sec come June 9th. 
FOR lOTH REUNION—SEE TENTATIVE SCHEDULE, PAGE 35 Your Class Secretary, Robert G. Sanford, 1103 E. Kensington Blvd., ShorewcK>d, Wis. 
1941 
$155230 contributed by 79 class members. 
DOCTOR GEORGE W. GREENE, JR., is now studying Oral Pathology- at the Armed Forces In­stitute of Pathology in Washington, D. C. For readers wlio would like to write George, his address is now 6811 Riggs Manor Drive, Hyattsvillc, Md. 
Your class secretary, John W. Patterson, Jr., 3330 Darlington Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
1942 
j $878.30 contributed by 77 class members. [ 
J i 
From SCOOP SCANLON: 

There were two Class of '42 affairs in Chicago* land that captured top attention in recent weeks. First of all was the "Junior-sized Reunion" at the Drake on the occasion of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago staging its Annual Banquet. With the staunch cooperation of DON FIGEL, soon bride­groom-to-be TOM POWER, and JOHN GRIFFIN, we were able to round up more than 20 familiar faces. 
Yes, there were some of them we couldn't recall as quick as you'd say ''Father Jc^in Ryan," bat here's the Honor Roll of '50 . . . those who made 
it: 

LEO A. LANIGAN, JR., BILL McAUUFFE, PHIL RILEY, BOB REILLY, FRANK E. CDOYD, BYRON V. KANALEY, JR., JIM McNULTY, JR., DAN McNAMARA, BILL BAADER, GEORGE A. UHL, TOM CRONIN, DON FIGEL, ROBT, £M­METT WRIGHT, WM. MARK MICKEY, ED GRAY HAYDEN, JOHN A. GRIFFIN, TOM DIL­LON. JOHN WUERTZ, JOHN A. KLEES, TOM POWERS, LEO P. LEE, BOB O'HARA, BILL MURPHY, JOE NUGENT, TOM POWERS and SCOOP SCANLAN. 
There might be a name or two that isn't ofiScially '42, but they were welcome anyhow. You can see what some of *em look like in the accompanying photograph, which was snapped in the outer "lob­by" at the Drake. There were thirteen you could get to stand still long enough. The others were mighty dry, or something! 
General concensus of opinion was that a Class of '42 party should be a "must" shortly. Let's hear from any others in the Chicago area and we'll see what can be done about it. 
Now*s about as good a time as any to give you a newsy letter from JACK FITZGERALD, now a buzzing attorney in Port Huron, Mich;: 
"The 'Alumnus' has been fatthfidly delivered to mv changing doors since I graduated from Notre Dame in Philosophy in 1942 (September), but I haven't received an issue lately, and suspect that I'd better send in the latest address. Also some in­formation about a few Notre Dame graduates who, like myself, graduated from Michigan within recent years. DAVE ARMSTRONG finished with a JD in June of '49. an ouutanding student. DICK O'CONNOR, of Indianapolis graduated %nth a 
LL.B. last Februar>-, and JACK McCARVEL finish­ed in June. Jack is from Montana, and spent a year at the Notre Dame I^w School around 1946, but transferred to Michigan for his last two years. 
"KflKE REGAN also finished up at Michigan about a year ago, and JACK TALLET finished In February of *48. I suppose most of this news is stale as old bread, and I regret that it's so indefinite as to years and addresses. As for myself, I spent a year in Law at Notre Dame after the war (from March to June of 1946), then spent a short time in the Seminary, and then entered Michigan Law School in February of '47, graduating last June. I've taken the plunge and stuck out a shingle, and so have plenty of time on my hands to meditate on the advant^^ of poverty. Am married to the form­er Mary McHale, of Chilton, Wisconsin, and have one child, a girl of six months. 
"It's good to follow the familiar names in the 'Alumnus.' I was surprised to learn that TONY GIROLAMI is studying law; wc used to walk home together and solve a few of life's problems when he lived in the last house toward the campus on Notre Dame Avenue. Oh yes, another Notre Dame grad­uate who graduated in June from the Michigan law school, is JIM WHALEN, from WapakoneU, Ohio. Haven't heard from him recently, but think he headed for California. 
"You might give my regards to Mrs. Lashbrook and Dean Manion, if and when you see them, and to l^fr. Rollinson. Guess that's all for the present." 
Next item of major importance was the wedding of one TOM POWERS. Yes, I was there, to be sure. Tom told me about his engagement to one Irene Stachura and then invited me to the wedding. I didn't think he really meant to be pushing me around, but the next tl^ g I knew the "Alumnus'*^ had me engaged to the gal. Tom was only fooling, though, and I didn't have a chance on Feb. 18 at St. Adrian's Church, Chicago's South Side. 
Best man was JOHN POWERS, who breezed in from New York where he's making history for International News Photos. He came up with some neat:comments;thoogh: JERRY. RABBETT.Is now assistant'to'JOHN BALFEi Placement Director of the Notre Dame Club of New York. Anyone want­ing a job in New York ought to get the right sid>­way routes now. JIM SHEILS has been named Conmtissioner of In\-estigation, City of New York. RAYMOND MILLIARD is Commissioner of Wel­fare, New York, and has been for a year. 
Forest Hilb, noted for its tennis, is the favorite meeting ground for JOHN POWERS, BERT KEL­LY and DICK MURPHY, the latter now an advert tising whiz in New York City. John, as you'll note, got off the subject of '42ers occasionally above, but he said BILL TOUMEY is the new publicity direct­
or of the Samuel Goldu-yn Studio productions in New York. An^-body ready for a screen test? 
PAUL NEVILLX was one of the big wheels, as usual, at Power's wedding. In addition to keeping the be\'>' of beautiful women charmed, Paul took bows for his expose of the U. of Washington's secret showing of *48 game Notre Dame mo\-ies to ofHcials. An army buddy had a hand in the deal which brought nation-wide acclaim to Paul and a real "scoop.'* 
Enuf about Paul—now what he said: GEORGE STRATIGOS has been appointed U. S. Federal Commissioner in South Bend District of Northern Indiana Federal Court. BERNIE CRIMNflNS, back­field coach now, has taken on many of ^.loosc Krause's duties since the latter became Athletic Director. Especially, Bemie is the "speaker of the Staff," next in demand to Leahy. He also knows how to run a moWe camera, especially those fca­ttiring N.D. games. TOM SCHMIDT is a chemist with U. S. Rubber Co., Mishawaka Division. JOE HRACHOVEC is married, and visited the Paul Ne\*illes in South Bend shortly after the wedding in Rapid City, S. D. 
JOE LANE is still occupied bv law in New York. HARRY (THE HORSE) WRIGHT is at U. of Portland. PAUL LILLIS, working in Detroit and still single, was at cvcr\- N.D. game at home. FRANK FOX, Indianapolis, got to football practice one night. MIKE HINES, believe it or not, is prac­ticing law in Las Vegas, N. M. Paul ran into him en route back from West Coast game. Paul being Sports Ed. of South Bend *'Tribunc,'* rides around all fall watching N.D. play—and gets paid for it! 
RAY DONOVAN is academic publicity director at N.D., and operates in an area occupied by Car­roll Hall in our «ra. EMMETT KEENAN was there, up from Davenport where he is part of the ac­countant firm of Doyle and Keenan. That's JIM DOYLE, you knox^r him. At the %%edding also %vere DAVE CONDON, like Powers, a Chicago "Tri­bune" sports stafT-er, and Sheriff of Durand Mc-Hugh. JACK PATTERSON, from Pittsburgh where he's making a name in press circles, came in over­night for the same event. Emmctt said LEE TAPP­SCOTT is a law>'cr prospect at Iowa State; MIKE KELLY has another baby, and ED HACKETT is in Detroit. From GEORGE UHL comes a note that Roscann Cecelia was bom on March 9. That'.s the second daughter for George. Watch out, Eddie Cantor, George has an eye on you! 
While commuting south the other P. M., I ran into JOHN W. BERGEN, salesman now with S>Tn­ington-Gould, who lives in Park Forest, Chicago's modem surburban community. He's not in town much, but occasionally sres a couple of N.D.-ers. 
That's all this time. We need more letters. See address ^ove . Remember, 
IF IT'S NEWS, AVRTTE SCOOP! 
IF IT'S ABOUT YOU, IT'S NEWS. 
Your Class Secretary', William E. Scanlan, Pull­man Trust & Saving Bank, 400 £. Ulth Street, Chicago 28, Illinois. 
1943 
$1131^0 contributed by 79 dass members. 
I 
From JOHN WIGGINS: 
Two letters this edition, one from DON DEG­NAN (21-73 23rd Street, Astoria, Long Island, New York) and the second from JULIE DURBIN (c/o 
J. L. Durbin and Co., Bowling Green, Ky.). Don OTote: "Saw JIM DO\V.NEY, his big new desk and law degree on the wall in West Palm Beach last winter. Ran into "RED" SCULLY working for his father on Broadway in No\*ember. Also saw BILL JOHNSON referee a football game in Valley Stream. My roomie, "BUDD" GANS, now hap­pily espoused and a duo of children residing in Wichita, Kansas, 
"Am personally in sports promotion; tried about everjthtng, but this I lo^-e. Have a great show, 'Tlcickcy On Wheels,'* running in four New York arenas now. It is tbe winter-time sports sensation; may be discovered by TV end of this season or next, with the late Jimmie Johnston's firm which hantiles major New York wrestling shows and top fighters like Sandy Saddler and Archie Moore. 
"Met Pat and Jim Farley, Jr., recently at St. 



SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
ALBERT J. SCHWARTZ, '37, re­ceived recognition from the Salina (Kan.) Joinmal as Salina's Man of the Year. 
Mr.- Schwartz's leadership in commu­nity projects to assure the sound de­velopment of Salina was the basis of the award. He was chosen from a list of 18 nominees, outstanding because of their selfless contributions to the com­munity. 
The Salina Journal credits Mr. Schwartz with voluntarily assuming extra civic obligations beyond his posi­tion as head of Salina's Chamber of Commerce. 
"When Salina's economic future was threatened by reduced farm crops," the Journal said, "Mr. Schwartz assumed the leadership in numerous projects to assure the sound development of the town. 
"He knit the community together, brought forth new leaders and evoked a practical optimism that should pay divi­dends for years to come." 
Mr. Schwartz, a native of Salina is an executive of the Les Hardware Co. He received an A.B. degree from the University in 1937. 
The award was made by the Salina Journal, it said, as a means of crediting "civic endeavor, of recognizing the year's accomplishments and of provid­ing inspiration for the future." 
Nick's Arena, reminisced over brother-in-law, ED HICKEY." 
Durbin writes: "At the present time I'm manager and buyer for the women's ready-to-wear department of the J. L. Durbin and Company. I've worked here now for three >-ears. The latter part of April a little filly from Nashville and I are going to take the last long leap; we will make our home in Bowl­ing Green. Tell ol' JOE CALLAHAN 'hello' if he comes to Chicago after his three-year 'Stretch* in Singapore.'* 
WALLY KRAWIEC, about 3 months with the 
U. S. Attorney's OiEce, Dcpt. of Justice, in Chi­cago, supplies the following: "BILL WOOD was in attendance at the North Carolina game in New York, Bill, an ex timber tapper for *Doc* Handy, now works for his father's concern. 'DUD* SMITH has moved to Pasadena with his wife and two boys. HANS HELLAND of the famed Wisconsin Dells has joined the ranks of the married." 
FRED GORE sent us this clipping from "Editor and Publbher": ''Effective January 1st the Patton-Hagerty organization and the Sulli\'an Advertis'ng Agency, Inc., have combined to operate under the name of Patton, Hagerty and Sullivan, Inc., with offices in the Chicago Daily News Building. Vice-President of the newly formed company is WIL­LIAM F. SULLIVAN.** Fred asks that we add the note that all members of the Class of *43 living in or visiting Chicago on Wednesdays drop in at Taf­fenettis* Restaurant, 63 W. Monroe Street. There will alwajs be three or four of the class in the up­stairs Dining Room at noon time. 
JACK BARRY did a lot of fine work for his 6rm in the recently decided and famed Tucker trial here in Chicago. 
' JOE KEENAN is a partner in a wire and cable concern, Kurtz and Keenan, 30 S. Jefferson Street, Chicago. Big Joe recently moved his home to Westchester, a Chicago suburb; one of his fellow townsmen is WALLY McNAiL\RA. 
Vour Class Secretary, John L. Wigins, 6442 Latta St., Dallas, Texas. 
1944 
$363.S0 contributed by 56 class members. 
From WILLIAM TALBOT: Here's the letter we promised from the prodigal TOM O'CONNOR. So many people haw been ask­ing for his address, and he has been out of touch for so long, that we are gixing him liberal space in which to explain: **I went back to N.D. in February, '46, took a semester of law intending to advance to an honor­able bar, but I dedded I hadnH the aptitude. So I headed for the horizon of golden jobs, Chicago. After six weeks I got a junior copy job. 
"After six months there, I began scouting about for livelier fields, and after nine months I got into Sears, writing retail copy for Chicago stores. Left Sears April, 1948, with two other guys to form our own agency. Star\'ed for a j^ear, and finally got go­ing January, 1949. For sue months everything was rosy, then our clients started paying lower and slower, putting the pinch on us. Anyway, now I'm with a small agency, Frcdric R. Kleiman. It's a small outfit, but growing, and I like it tremen­dously." 
Tom mentions his delinquency in writing BL.ACK JOHN MURPHV and sex-eral others, but adds, though, that he "got Christinas cards in '48 and '49 from MIKE ZOROVICH. He»s in Palm Beach, in the construction business. Has a wife and a couple of children. 
"TOM ROLFS was an usher at our wedding. Since then we've been up there, and he and \fary have been here a couple times. Now a v.p. in the leather goods business. T is on the road a lot. I have a hard time keeping up with his new Buicks. Every time I see him he has a different car. 
"Saw HARRY LAVERY when he first came to Chicago and for a couple months after that. That was at least 9 months ago—and I still owe him a lunch. From HARRY YEATES I learned that LAVERY is now married. 
"Yeates is the only guy I ree at regular intervals. He takes a couple courses once a week at N U night school, and occasionally calls me. We alwa>3 ha\-e a good time. 
"Before Thanksgiving I ran into BOB GALLA­GHER (De Kalb) on the street. Bob has two chil­dren and was expecting a third. Said his family and JOHNNY RONAN'S get together quite often. 
"JOHNNY MOORE was a salesman (until Janu­ary first) with F. W. Dodge—selling ad\-ertising space for the ChUago Construction News. Saw him quite often—the last time just before Christmas when he told me he was leaving to take another job. He hasn't changed a bit—still big, husky, and has all his hair." 
Thus spake our Chicago oracle. This should 

Volume 28, No. 2, March-April, 1950 
spike all those ugly rumors that Tom and Father Sorin had quarrekd again and were no longer on speaking terms. Tom has been married nearly a year, and just as this column was going to press in the last days of February, he and Fran announced the arrival of their first-born, Brian Thomas. 
The next letter is from BEN BRUNETTI, and is chock-full of information. Here goes Ben: 
"Here in Uniontown we have three *44 men: AL ROMEO, TONY RENZE, and myseU. Romeo and Renze have both had family additions this month and both additions naturally are potential ND material. This is the second son for Renzc and the first for Romeo. 
"PAT BRENNAN, of Pittsburgh, is doing quite well as an accountant with the Pittsburgh office of Ernst & Ernst. Pat was married in the Log Chapel in October, 1948, to Miss Mary Jane Funk of Cleve­land. I have had the pleasure of being their din­ner guest on a few fKc:asions. 
"PAUL BRACKEN is living in Johnstown and doing architecture in Grcensburg, Pa. He*s married (St. Mary's product) and the proud parent of a daughter. 
"GUIDO ALEXANDER, of Columbus, is doing big time as a night club proprietor, and was mar­ried in Our Lady's Chapel to Miss Betty Kalteneck­er, also of Columbus, last September. FATHER MURRAY, Chaplain in Guido's outfit during the war (the I04lh Division), officiated. 
"My roommate, GIGGS HIGLIERI, who I hope reads this since he's way past doe on our corre­spondence, is now happily settled with his mfe, Mis3 Anne Bush of Lemont, UK, in thrir new home in Peoria. Giggs went on to Georgetown Law after the war, and is now a promising member of the legai profession out in *Bourbon Countrj-'." 
As for myself, I was out ND way for the gradua­tion weekend of January 27th. My brother, BUD, Bnished in Accounting and is now in business with our father here in Uniontown. LOU BURNS stopped over to visit Bud last June. Lou had just been graduated and was on his way to Washington, 
D. C- Bud hears that he is now in New York working with the Hooper rating outfit. 
I'm examining banks in Ohio and Pennsylvania for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Do quite a bit of road work, but get home on week ends. Am now sweating out the rain and waiting for the spring sun and soft greens. Can't wait for the aches and pains of the first 18 for '50. Am de­termined to average 42 this >-ear or else. 
There is a lot of good news also from the ranks of the Brothers who graduated with us. BROTHER ELLIS GREENE, C.S.C., Is now principal of Mt. Carmel School in the Bronx, New York. BROTH­ER LEONARD LEARY, G-S.C, is directing a band at Holy Trinity High School in Chicago. BROTH­ER ALFONSO COMEAU, C.S.C., having received his Master's in History at Notre Dame in '47, has been promoted to principal of Holy Cross in New Orieans. BROTHER CARLOS DOLAN, C.S.C, is head social worker at Boysville, Michigan. Broth­er Carlos received a graduate degree in Social Work at Catholic University in 1946. And BROTHER KIERAN RYAN, C.S.C., who rcceiwd hU Mas­ter's Degree in Commerce at N.Y.U., is now Dean of the College of Commera; at St. Edward's Uni­versity in Austin, Texas. 
DOM BOETTO is full of news too:—"Following our reunion last spring, I started attending a Law Review class in preparation for the Bar and met all of the ND bo>-s who were attending. The only ones from our class wrre JIMMY PLATT and GENE PILAWSKY. JIM THORNTON took that Bar with us, but he had a different quiz course. 
"Received a card from BILL WYLIE who is working for Bell Telephone in Chicago.' Heard that GUIDO ALEXANDER of Columbus is finally nailed to the regular occupation of married life. He is owner-manager of the P^m Garden night club, which is one of Columbus' finest. 
"Spent a weekend last February with GEORGE MELTZGER, '42, I believe, who returned to ND after the war. We managed to get together for the ND-DePaul game in Chicago. 
"Last night I finally finished reading FRANK LEAHY'S latest book. It is really interesting and only goes to show you how little a person knows about the ganxe of football. 
"CLYDE LEWIS of the VFW was in Joliet in February. He's National Commander of the VFW and a ND man. 
"While in Springfield last January to receive my shingle I ran into BERNIE GHIGLIERI. He 
took his law degree at Georgetown, and Is now practicing in Peoria, Illinois." And thanks to TOM HALLIGAN for the final wind-up letter. Tom writes: 
"In November my wife presented me with a 9­pound boy. Name, Thomas Joseph II. After having two girls I'd almost given up hope for a boy. I guess we'll have to have another boy now to keep things on an even scale. 
"The Men's Club of St. Matthew Parish threw a football bust in December and had NL\RTIN and SFTKO along with WALLY ZIEMBA as guests. We pulled off a very successful party later for about 600 guests. 
"I hear that BEN MAMMINA (who is uncon­sicous when he plays gin rummy—it cost me last June to find out) is going to take that long stride to the point of matrimony, 
"By the way, my new address is 1615 East Court St., Flint, Michigan." 
Sixteen other changes of address have been re­ported since the last column came out. For the con­venience of the class members we will Ibt the names. For the new addresses you may contact either the Alumni Office or the Class Secretary. Here are the latest changes: 
R. H. A'Hearn Rev. \S. R. Lyons 
C. M. Andres W. A. Madden 
W. H. Bodden Lt. R. J. Martina 
W. L. Brehmer J. H. Morris D, H. Foley J. G. O'Connell, Jr. 
R. E. Funsch F. J. Quinlan 
M. W. Gelber L. F. Renner 
J. P. Hickey B. J. Ghiglieri, Jr. 
J. H. Bright W. H. Grafe, Jr. 
K. M. Brown T. J, O'Connor 
L. J. Buchignani J. P. Segerson, Jr. 
D. F. Casey Cy De Smet 
J. G. Crowley, Jr. J. C. Thomas 
W. B. LaBerge 

There are approximately fifteen changes of ad­dress made by our classmates every month. If you have changed address and have not notified either the Alumiu Office or the Class Secretary, please do so at once. 
Mail addressed to the following men is returned, and proper addresses are required if they are to re­main on the Alumni files: Lyons Anthony Bristol Rabbi Hyman Jacob Cohen Raj-mond Joseph Cusick Brother Francis Regis (Crowley) John Justin Jaeger Brother Jose Logue, C.S.C. Edward Joseph Keelan James Conlon Kessell August Joseph Legeay Gerardo Joseph Lombard! William Louis Maccani, Jr. Robert Paul Reilly Walter Bronner Searcy Michael Anthony Stepovich 
And for a final bit of news from New York Cit>*. The February alumni meeting was attended by BLACK JOHN MURPHY, BILL ROGERS, JERRY BROWN, ANDY BARBIERE, and JIM SULLI­VAN. ED M. FREDERICKS, the Alumni Office informs us, is now officially a member of '44. Ed's address is listed as 1618 Myrtle Avenue, Whiting, Indiana. 
DOMINIC FRANCIS BOETTO and his father, 
P. Francis Boetto, have formed a law partnership under the firm name of "Boetto and Boetto," with offices at Suite 421 Chalstrom Building, Joliet, Ill­inois. 
Your class secretary, AVilliam F. Talbot, 300 Main St., \Vhitc Fl;uns, N. Y. 
1947 
$950 J O contributed by $7 class members. 
I 
From J. D. USINA: 

Probably the biggest news recently was the gath­ering of the Nax-al R.O.T.C. second graduating class for their five-year reunion here in South Bend on February 24-25-26. Every one had a pretty good time of it and the weekend was closed with a special Mass in Walsh Hall chapel followed by a Commun­ioD Breakfast in the faculty dining hali on the cam­pus, Sunday, Fcbniary 26tli. 
Those attending «reie: JOHN MACK, JIM BRAUN, GABBY HARTNETT, ART and TOM NOLAN, BOX WADDINGTON, VINCE LATJR­ITA, BOB O'BRIEN, DAN O'DONNEIX, JOE LAUCK, BUO GOTTA, DAVE CHAMPION, DICK CHAMPION, DICK LEITE, JOHN CARON, DAVE CARTWRIGHT, JOHN LAVERY, JOE WOHIRAB, MARK CRONIN, BILL PFISTER. AL WADE, Ba L KLEM, BOB SNEE, GENE KEASEY, DBS CURRIER, ED BALL, DON CLAEYS, VERN HECHT, JIM LAMB and HERB DAIKER. 
It was such a busy weekend that I didn't liave the time to jot down much pertinent information but everyone promised to become real punctual and send in news for'use here regulariy. I hope we can start with the next issue. 
Quite a few fellows couldn't make it for one reason or another but everyone was enthusiastic about prospects for 1955. 
Had a letter from BILL HABERMAN in Green Bay, Wisconsin. Bill is a design engineer for the Hud:on-Sbarp &fachine Co., who manufacture paper converting machinery. Bill has asked for a transfer to the New York office as a sales engineer and mil be on lookout for friends in the aitsa when the move is effected. Still in the market for news about the class, so let us hear from some of you. 
JOHN MASTRANGELO, former Notre Dame football star guard, who has been with the Pitts­buish Steelers and the New York Yankees, has de­cided to quit the game and has accepted a position as a salesman with a flour company. 
On April 22, he plans to marry Gloria Beir, his high school sweetheart. 
Hospital attendants at St. Joseph Hospital re­ported that JACK MILES, a poUo patient, set a record Tuesday. He was able to remain outside his iron lung from 8:30 a.m imtil 4:30 p.m. Miles is the former manager of The Tribune's, St. Joseph, Michigan, bureau. 
ROBERT E. KOSINSKI is attending a Uw school in Brooklyn, New York. His address is 252 Vroo­man Avenue, Amstertlam, New York. 
Class Secretary, J. D. Usina, 219 S. Scott Street, South Bend, Ind. 
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology De­partment of Electrical Ei^neering reported to Pro­fessor J. A. Northcott, Jr., Head of the Electrical Engineerin g Department that "CHARLES O'GRADY has an academic rating o( 4.25 on 72 units." Mr. Kusko, who is in charge of the Ma­chinery Laboratory, says, "I consider Mr. O'Grady one of our best lajxiratnry nKn. You will be inter­ested to know that we have rccomnisnded him for promotion to the rank of Instructor." 
VINCENT CAPELLUZZO, of Greenfield, Mass., has made the honorary sodety at Tufts Me<Ucal School. On the basis of *'high scholarship, moral integrity and the promise of intellectual growth" Vincent was elected to Alpha Omega Medical Honor Society at Tufts, which he entered after competition with the best of pre-medica] graduates. 
In his Erst year at Tufts Vincent earned the Tufts Medical Alumni Award for Iiis outslandii^ record made in study of anatomy during the year 1947-48. 
1948 
$1103.50 contribatcd by 136 doss mzmbcrs.  |  
I  
From HERMAN ZITT:  

It was just before Christmas and we were talking football when I was writii^ news for the last issue of the ALUMNUS but today being Sjoing, wre can look forward to Easter and some diamond news. 
Before getting into the lighter sde of things, I want to report that 553 of you contributed 114.55931 to the Notre Dame Foundation in 1949. I would like to quote a few wcvds of appredation ^om Father Cavanaugh's letter Xo the members of the '48 class: "Alumni givii^ reached a new high total in amount and tvas accompanied by a partidpadon of alumni ranking high in national comparisons widi alumni giving in other schools. I am grateful to the Class of *48 for its record of $14,559.91 contributed last year." 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
I vnsh to take this opportunity to thank all of you for >-our splendid support during the past year. Since the Saence Building Project will be with us for another ^-ear, let's build a total that will enable us to sponsor a larger room than w-as originally planned. Thus far this year 136 classmates have contributed $1103.50. 
A note from JEROME FARROX saj-s that he is doing a litde teaching at St. \1nccnt's School for Bo>TJ, San Rafael, Calif. PAUL BRACKEN is now living in Grecnsburg, Pa. FRANK BRINKMAX is li\ing in Midland, Michigan. PHIL DEILY and the FBI have moved to Albuquerque. New Mexico (Phil, CEC JORDAN has probably joined your staff by now). JIM DINNEN has moved to Des Moines. JIM EHALT is now livnig in Webster Groves, Mo. BOB (Confederate) GRANT has moved to Yanke; Philly. The Naw has moved Ens. BILL HOBAN to S. Pasadena, Calif. 
BILL SUMMERLIN writes that after leaving 
N.D.
 he studied law for a year at the Un'versity of Georgia. In September he accepted a position with the Southern States Iron Roofing Company in Sa­\-annah. RAPH.4EL J. KENNEY is now Ii\ing in Louis\ille, Kv., while AL ASTERS has moved to Midland, Pa. JOHN MOWBIUY is settled in Las Vegas, Ne\'ada. JOHN PARKER is neighboring up in Lansing. JIM RODIBAUGH has moved to Men-tone, Indiana, while HENRY SHIPP has moved to Kilgore. Texas. BILL STOLZE is in Edwards\ille. 

m.
 D.\VE THORNTON is changing his baseball interests from Butler, Pa., to Richmond, Indiana, thb spring. CHARLES TROTTER is down in Coral Gables, Florida. 


RAY SRSIC wrote that he received his ^LS. in Zoology last summer from the University of Pitts­burgh. Ray is now working for the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research in Pittsburgh. BILL ALDEN has moved to Springfield, Ohio, while BERN.ARD BEIER has moved to Ncwburgh, New York. JOHN COONEY is in Caldwell, New Jersey. MATT DRANCHAK has moved to Fort Barrington, ^^ass. DAN C^ORGE has srtilod in Brooklvn. while I'jc GREELEYS are in Kenmore, New York. PAUL KLAAS has moved to Bellevnie, Washington. 
CHARLIE PRESCOrr writes that he is a repre­sentative for the Atlas Powder Company in Eastern Washington. Charlie can be contacted at the ofHce in Spokane. MIKE MILLER has moved from New-Orleans to Detroit, while DON MODIE is now in Gar%-. JOHN MULLIGAN is now in Louisville. 
BOB OWENS is living in Pittsburgh. BILL FELLING is with Prllin*! & Rock in Hin-.-^ale, Illi­nois. DON POEPSEL has moved to DePcw. New-York. 
ROL.\ND ROEDERER has been appointed man­ager of the Associates In\Tutment Co. in Louisville. BOB ROLWIN has moved to Indianapolis. GEORGE SCHILLING is with the Iv^no Company in Benton Harbor. DOC SCHROERING's address is St. .Anthony's Hospital, Louisville. BOB TAY­LOR is now in Skaneateles, New York. ART UL­RICH has settled in Jackson, Michigan. JOE WILCOX is in Washington, D. C. JOHN .AL­VAREZ has settled in SUngcrlands, New York. HARRY DUCAT has moved to Nevxark. while BOB HARTMANN has mov-ed from Wauwatosa to Milv»-aukee. BART JOHNSON has moved to Bala­C>-nwTd, Pa. CHARLES MELIA has migrated to Pompton Plains, New Jerse>-. JOE O'BRIEN is at Cal. Tech. in Pasadena. The TESKES have settlca in Takoma Park, Md. CHARLES TURVERY is in Bartlcsvillc, Oklahoma. JOHN COSTELLO is vrith Ball Brothers in Chicago. 

LOU SAMPSON is in the General .AccounUng Department with Firestone in Memphis. GENE PODESTA is with Orgill Bros. Hardu:arc, Memphis. ED DUKE, who was connected with the Jordan Lumber Company in Memphis, is now connected with Dierks Mill at Wright City, Oklahoma. The STACKS, all three of them, have moved to Apple­ton, Wisconsin. The WIEBELS are expecting their second any day now. 
For the information of the Architecture Grads. P.AUL BYRNE advised mc that he has purchased an architectural dictionary with part of the $30.00 donated by the *48 Architecture Grads. 
I would like to see all of >-ou who arc planning to attend the Reunion in June. We'll put the Foundation blank checks in cold storage for the weekend. 

From the silent members of the class, drop me a note and let me know what >'ou are doing and who you have seen in the past few months. 
From THOMAS J. FERRFFER who is working for Socony Vacuum in Cairo, Egypt. 
JOHN H. SCHNEIDER writes: Just changed jobs. Have been lime salesman for station WGN in Chicago. Last w-eek mov-ed to WMAQ-NBC in same capacity. 
DANIEL P. BARLOW, BSEE, is now associated v\ith General Electric and was assigned to their creative engineering program. 
Your Class Secretary, Herman A. Zitt, Foundation Office, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
1949 
{  $1073.50 contributed by 140 class members.  j  
I  !  
From JOHN  P. WALKER  

PAUL D. STEIN is employed as a traveling audi­tor with the Sinclair Refining Company. 
WILLIAM F. FUERTGES, ME, w ^ one of two selected from eighteen considered for assignment to the General Electric Cleveland Bulb Works to train for production engineering. 
JAMES MARCHELEWICZ, athletic director of Central Catholic High School, stressed the need to keep ph>-sically fit in a lecture before the Junior Board of St. Joseph County Tuberculosis League. He said the cv-cle of ph>-sical fitness is work, fatigue, rest, recover and more work, but no phase of the cj'cle should be overtaxed. "A coach's job," he ex­plained, "is not only to keep the muscles of his bo>-s working properly, but also to keep their think­ing in condition." 
JOH-N L. HAGSTRO.M is a Chicago salesman for the Formica Company. 
CHARLES R. WAGNER of South Bend is now connected with the Studebaker Corporation, where he is a part of a training program in the Branch .Accounting Department. 
We have heard from GEORGE J. FRAZIER, JR., v%'ho is with the Singer Sewing Machine Company in Lima, Peru. 
DONALD BERNARD WHFFE has accepted a job vrith LOBUND. Your class secretary', John P. AValkcr, William £ CIcary, 133 S. LaSalle, Chicago, III. 
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology Depart­ment of Electrical Engineering announced to Pro­fessor J. A. Northcott, Jr., Head of the Electrical Engineering Department that "WILLIAM NOLDEN is vrith Professor Taylor in the Measurements Lab-orator\-. .Academically he has a rating of 3.00 on 9 units, which means that he received a grade of 'pass' in the subject he took this term." 
"R. F. SCHREITMUELLER has a perfect rating of 5.00 on 18 units. He is working for Professor Beranek, who comments 'Schreitmueller is doing ex­cellent work. We feel that he ranks in the category of genius. \Ve l>elieve that Schreitmucl!cr is des­tined to go places and that still better things can be reported about him in another >-ear'." 
1950 
j $183.00 contributed by 63 class members. 
I 
FRANK T. CALLAHAN writes that he has ac­cepted a position with the J. E. Greiner Company in Baltimore, Maryland. At present he is w-orkmg on the selection of sites and grade lines and esti­mation of excavation for a series of airstrips, 3,00U feet in length, which will be constructed along the route of the Penns>ivania Turnpike. 
CYRIL WEILER, dvil engineer, is working on a bridge construction project in Aurora, Illinois. JOSEPH T. LEONE is doing graduate w-ork at Pennsjivania State College, State College, Pa. 
The president of the University of Dayton an­nounced the appointment of RALPH McGEHEE as n-vv lin- cr-arh. Raloh U a January* alumnus of Noire Dame and a four-jcar letterman. For the past two years, he started at right tackle and has won a letter each year he has been on the squad. 
He is married, 24 years old, and has a daughter Ann. Ralph was born in Chicago and graduated from Tilden Tech High School, where he won Chi­cago all-city honors. 
FRANK LEAHY commented on McGehee's ap­pointment as follows: "The University of Dayton is to be congratulated on the hiring of Ralph Mc-Gehee as line coach. Ralph is good material, and he has the seriousness of purpose that is essential in a good coach as in a good pla>er. I am sure he will be as successful in his coaching career as he was while playing at Notre Dame." 
Also Joe Gavin, head coach at the University of Dayton, said: "We are quite fortunate to obtain McGehee, who will be able to put on the pads and teach the boys by example. He will impart a spirit of drive and winning acquired over four undefeated seasons with one of the best coached teams in foot­ball." 
LARRY APPELBAUM writes that he is lined up with a very satisfactory engineering position in St. Louis, Missouri. Larry lives at 5018 Steffens Ave­nue, St. Louis. 
MAURICE J. FERRITER has a training job with Conron, Inc., wholesale hardware dealers, Danville, Illinois. 
JOHN A. COLLINS, South Bend, is now vsorktng at the Oliver Corporation in South Bend, where he is going through a training program. 
We hav« been informed that JERRY DOBYNS and AL SCHMEISER are with U. S. Rubber in Mbhawaka, Indiana. 
Another January- graduate, RICHARD F. HAHN, has accepted a position with the Ford Motor Com­pany, Dearborn, Michigan, and is connected with the Ford Field Training Program. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere svmpathy to REV. STANLEY KUSZYNAK, C.S.C., '15, on the death of his brother; REV. CORNELIUS A. HOOY­BOER, C.S.C., '29, and REV. JOHN J. HOOY­BOER, '30, on the death of their mother; to the REV. WILLIAM MINNICK, C.S.C., on the death of his sister; to the REV. ALBIN L. HOSINSKI, C.S.C.. *39. on the death of his fath-r: to the REV. JOSEPH A. MUCKENTHALER, C.S.C, '23, on the death of his brother; to REV REGIS O'NEILL, C.S.C., '31 on the death of his brother; to JEROME DINEEN GAINER, '43 and CHARLES DELBERT GAINER, '41 on the death of their father; to JOHN J. BORKOWSKI, '44, on the death of his mother. 

MAY 10 DEADLINE FOR CLASS NOTES 
Class secretaries are asked to get their class notes to the Alumnus Office by May 10 for the May-June issue. 
Several classes had to be left out of this issue because notes or news reached the Alumnus too late to get into print. Secretaries are therefore reminded that we can't print class notes if we don't get them, and are asked to help us do something about it. 
Bill Dooley's leaving the Alum­nus for fuUtime placement work handicaps his successor more than somewhat, as Bill was frequently able to use persuasion where it would do the most good. The new managring editor of the Alumnus can only ask for co­operation, and hops it comes. 
Herewith, then, an earnest plea for notes, pictures, and what have you. But an equally earnest plea to get them in by May 10. 

Volume 28, No. 2, March-April, 1950 


CLASS SECRETARIES 
1890-1899 
1900-1904 ROBERT E. PROCTOR, Monger Build­ing, Elkhatt, Indiana 
1905-1909 REV. THOMAS E. BURKE, C.S.C.. Presbytery, Notre Dame, Indiana  REV. MICHAEL L. MORIARTY, 3343 E. 
93rd St., Cleveland, Ohio 1911 FRED L. STEERS, 105 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Illinois 1913 PAUL R. BYRNE, University Library, Notre Dame, Indiana 1914 IRA W . HURLEY, 208 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 4, Illinois  JAMES E. SANFORD, 509 Cherry St., Wiimetka, Illinois 1916 GROVER F . MILLER, 612 Wisconsin Ave., Racine, Wisconsin 1917 BERNARD J. VOLL, 206 E. Tutt St., South Bend, Indiana 1918 GEORGE E. HARBERT, 108 North Main St., Sycamore, Illinois 1919 THEODORE C. RADBMAKER, Peru Foundry Company, Peru, Indiana  LEO B . WARD, 458 S. Spring St., Los Angeles, California 1921 DAN W . DUFFY, 1101 N£.C. Building, Cleveland 14, Ohio 1922 GERALD A. ASHE, 39 Cambridge St., Rochester 7, New York 
1923 PAUL H . CASTNER, 1305 W. Arlington Ave., St. Paul, Mirmesota 1924 REV. THOMAS A. KELLY, CS.C., Cava­
naugh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana  JOHN P. HURLEY, 1218 City Park Ave., Toledo, Ohio 1926 JOHN J. RYAN, 1415 West Thome Ave., Chicago 26, Illinois 1927 JOSEPH M . BOLAND, Radio Station WSBT, South Bend, Indiana 1928 LOUIS F . BUCKLEY, 4700 West Adams St., Chicago 44, Illinois 1929 DONALD J. PLUNKETT, Biology Depart­ment, Notre Dame, Indiana  HAROLD E. DUKE, 4030 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania .1931 WALTER F. PHILIPP, 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Square, Peimsylvania 1932 JAMES K. COLLINS, 17 Triangle Ave., Dayton 9, Ohio 1933 JOSEPH D . A. MCCABE, Rosary College, River Forest, Illinois 1934 EDWARD F. MANSFIELD, 6573 N. Glen-wood, Apt. 1, Chicago, Illinois  FRANKLYN C. HOCHREITER, 1327 Pent-wood Road, Baltimore 12, Md. 1936 JOSEPH F . MANSFIELD, 349 Weaver St., RF D 4, Greenwich, Connecticut 1937 FRANK J. REILLY, 1651 Metropolitan Ave., New York Gty 62, New York 1938 CHARLES M . CALLAHAN, Sports Publicity Depattment, Notre Dame, Indiana 1939 VINCENT DECOURSEY, 1917 Elizabeth, Kansas City 2, Kansas  ROBERT G. SANFORD, 1103 E. Kensington Blvd., Shorewood, Wisconsin 1941 JOHN W . PATTERSON, JR., 5530 Darling­ton Rd., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 1942 WILLIAM E. SCANLAN, 400 East lllth St., Chicago 28, Illinois 1943 JOHN L. WIGGINS, 6442 Latta St., Dallas, Texas 1944 WILLIAM F. TALBOT, 300 Main St., Apt. 5-F, White Plains, New York  JAMES W . SCHAEFFER, 7516 N. Hoyne, Chicago, Illinois 
1946 JOHN K. STEWART, Nolan Motor Com­pany, Garden City, Kansas 1947 JOSEPH D . USINA, 219 S. Scott Street, 
South Bend, Indiana 1948 HERMAN A. Zrrr, Foundation Office, Notre Dame, Indiana 1949 JOHN P. WALKER, 135 South LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Illinois 

REUNION — JUNE 9.10.11 
(As it looks from here, a few changes may be made, but plan now to be here) 
THE 194S E.XPERIENCB DICTATES A ROUNDED PROGRAH OF THE FRATERNAL. ACADEHIC, SPIRITUAL, RECREATIONAL AND ADMINISTRATrVE FOR A WEBXEND THAT WILL BE 
MEMORABLE FOR YOU  
FRIDAY. JUNE 9  
Kegistration,  Main  Entrance  Campus.  Assig^nment  of  Halls,  General  
Badges, Alumni  Banquet and Room Provision.  
Classes  of 1900, 1905, 1910, 1915, 1920  Howard HaU  
Class of 1925  Lyons Hall  

Class of 1930 Morrissey HaU Class of 1935 Dillon Hall Classes of 1940, 1945 AInnmi Hall 
(Non-reunion alumni will be house in the Hall nearest their Class year.) 
Hegistration in the Hall, by Class Committee arrangement. Class fee col­lected, room assigned. Class insignia issued. Class program provided. 
Alumni Golf Tournament begins Friday on the William J. Bnrke-University course. Class groups may make up parties. Scores count against gen­eral Alumni Tournament as well as against Class tournament provisions. 
Lakes, tennis courts, Kockne Memorial pool, etc., are available all day. Class Reunion Dinners and Buffet Smokers will be held Friday night as determined by the Class Committees (you will receive Class letters with detailed data). Each Class Committee is making arrangements to pro­vide full campus programs. The Golden Jubilee of the Class of 1900 will be marked by the creation of the Fifty-Year Club, comprising the 1900 graduates and all those alumni out 50 Years or Longer. A very attractive special award is being prepared. 
SATURDAY. JUNE 10 
Masses in the Hall Chapels, followed by the Class Picture and the election 
of Class officers for the ensuing 5-Year Period. Gold tournament continues; late registration of incoming alumni continues. Softball Games between Reunion Classes as arranged by Local Committees. President's Luncheon at Noon on Saturday for the 25-Year Reunion Class 
of 1925. Saturday Afternoon—^the Academic Session—a Survey of the Half Century 
of the Undergraduate Colleges of the University: Arts and Letters, Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Dean Science, Mr. Lawrence Baldinger, Dean Engineering, Mr. Karl Schoenherr, Dean Law, Mr. Clarence Manion, Dean Commerce, Mr. James McCarthy, Dean 
(Summary of the history, status and programs. Interesting and informative.) 
Saturday afternoon following the academic session, a spectator sport. (Di­rector of Athletics Krause is working on a baU game for Carier Fidd). 
Saturday night, the Annual Alumni Banquet, main Dining HaU, Classes seated by tables. Reports of officers will be presented, and the President of the University wiU give the annual address on the University pro­gram. Special attention is being given to entertainment by the Alumni Office Banquet Committee. Post-Banqust—the Classes are providing headquarters and facilities which indicate that the sessions after the general Banquet will adjourn to the several Reunion Quarters. 

SUNDAY. JUNE 11 
The spiritual-cultural highlight of the weekend, a Mass for Alumni in Sacred Heart Church, with a sermon directed to the Notre Dame alum­nus by one of the outstanding pulpit orators of the Congregation. 
(The Club Presidents Council will meet on the campus on Jime 8 and 9, as will the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association, both sessions ad­journing in time for the coordination with the Reunion programs). • 


DIRECTORY of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ARIZONA—/'/l.i.>i>'v—Thomas E. OMalley, '39, 320 \V. \'irsinia. Tucson—Ted ^V. Wilz, '29, Box 628. 
ARKANSAS—Fort Smilh—IUyniond A. Marre, cx­37, 229 Merdiants Nat'l. Bank BIdg. 
CALIFORNIA—Loj Aneelts—Etisena C. Calhoun, '33, 704 S. Spring St., Room 212. A'orlArrn-Donald L. .Mien, '37. Federal BIdg.. Civic Conference, San Francisco. San D!rgo—\\'. Albert Steu-art, '36, 728 San Diego Tr. & Savings Bank BIdg. 
COLORADO—fl.n:<-r—James F. Hanlon. '18. 16.12 Glencoe St. 
CONNECTICUT—Conncf/iVu( I'iiHc>'—William J. Rcid, '26. 7 May St., Hartford. NaugiAuck Valley—D. Frank Murnane, '32, Summit Rd., Prospect. 5nu(Aa«(frn—Frank S. McGec, '33, 51 Savoy St., Bridgeport 6. 
DELAWARE—Arthur C. Baum, '36, 1310 Van Buren St., Apt. 3-C, Wilmington. 
DISTRICT OF COLU.MBI.'\—H'aj/ung/oTi-J. R. "Pal" Gorman. '40, 1740 K St., NW. 
FLORIDA—Cr<ro(fr il/mmi—Fred A. Jones, Jr., '47, 25 S.W. 18th Rd., Miami. 
Vorl iMuderdale—VrcA J. Stewart. '12. Port Everglades Station. North Florida—John F. 1-anahan, '43, P.O. Box 1498, Jacksonville. 
GEORGIA—William H. Schroder, Jr., '35, 162 Rum-son Rd., Atlanta. 
IDAHO—Paul J. Kohout, '25, 1722 Washington St., Boise. 
ILLINOIS—C/iiVosn—John W. Laccy. '38, the Forbes Lithograph Mfg. Co.. 700 Wrigley BIdg. OoiioV/.—John Meyer, '42, 1314 Franklin. Fox KoHo^William B. Chawgo, '31, 516 Binder St., Aurora. 
yn/iV;-Ko«/.o;..-.—Arthur Smith. Jr., '48. RD No. 2. /'forjn—Eugene R. Slevin. "44. 121 Summit Blvd. Rock River I'oHo—Paul J. Fr>-, '27, 101 First St., Dixon. Sprinsfield—Stephen G. Gralikcr, '42, 1537 
W. Macon St.. Decatur. 
INDI \N.\-C/i/iim<-/ WxnV/—James J. Glenn, '35, 1337 119lh St., Whiting. Eastern Indiana—William B. Cronin. '31, 521 
E. Jefferson, Hartford City. Fort Wayne—Edwin J. Wesner. '25. 4607 Fair­field. Indianapolis—Nicholas J. Connor. Jr., '36, 38 Shelby St. Michigan City—Francis G. Fedder, '31, E. Cool-spring Ave. St. Joseph TaHo'—Francis ^L Messick, '30, 1333 E. Wayne St., South Bend. Tri-Stalc (Ky., Ind. and 111.)—Robert L. Hen­ncberger, '35. 125 E. 4th St., Mt. Carmel, III. ll'abash yalley—Br. Kenneth F. Law^, '36, 501-5 I-afayclte Life BIdg.. Lafayette. 
IOWA—n« .Aloinw-Robert J. Ticrnan, '40, 650 
39lh St. Dubuque—Robert 11. Kenline, '35. 418 Bank & Insurance BIdg. Quad-Cities (Davenport. Rock Island, Moline, East Moline)—John R. Coryn. '22. 2545 13th St., Moline. 
KANSAS—Eastern—^Judgc Joseph J. Dawes, '26, 420 Arch St., Leavenworth. 
KEN'TUCKY—James C. Carrico. '35. 2905 S. Fourth St., Louisville. 
LOUISIANA—ATem Or/Mnl-Jules K. dc la Vergne, '38. 5811 Hurst. 
-\I.\RYL.\.\"D—fio/d'raorf-FrankKn C. Hochreiter, '35. 1327 I'entwood Rd. 
^L•\SSACHUSETTS—CoJfon- John V. Moran, '30, Coslello, Moran & Mahan, 31 State St. Pioneer I'aHo'—Henry M. Padden, '24, 342 Sargeant St., Ilolyokc. 
MICIIIG.\N—B^m'en Counf>^WilIiam H. Downey, '28, 60 N. St. Joseph Ave., Niles. Blue Water Z)iJ(nc(—William L. Wilson, '42, 
P.O.
 Box 295, Port Huron. Central—Dr. Edgar J. Ilcrmcs, '18, 828 N. Logan St., Lansing. Dr/ro;/—Thom.ns J. Moran. '35, 1329 Bucking­ham Rd., Grosse Pointe 30. Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—Frederick 

C.
 Gast, '37, 322 .Auburn Ave., S.E. Ilinzralhaland—Paul Kreuz, '33, 1215 Michigan Ave., Menominee, Mich. 


Iron Ronj.—Robert T. O'Callaghan, '45, 633 McLeod .-\ve., Ironwood. ^Wonroc—Thomas E. GrifTm, '33, 203 E. Third St. Sagina-.f Valley—llcibcn R. Schnetller, '22, 1827 Hanchett St.. Saginaw. 
MINNESOT.A—Ta/n CidVj—Thomas M. Hart, '28, Northwestern Bank BIdg., Minneapolis. DulutkSuperior—Wm. E. Cotter, Jr., '41, 1929 
E. Superior St., Duluth. 
MISSOURI—KanJor City—(Mo. and Kans.)-Rob­ert Pendergast. '35, 403 W. 59th St. Terrace, Kansas City, Mo. St. Louis—John J. Griffin, Jr., '39, 7236 North-moor Dr., University City 5. 
MON'TAN.A-Bernard Graincy, '43, 801 12th .\ve., TIelena. 
NEBlt.\SK.\—Eugene F. .Milbourn, '39, 4431 Cass St., Omaha. 
NEW JERSEY—Thomas B. Hogan, '38, 27 St. 
Lawrence Ave., Maplewood. South yiTJO"—Valentine B. Deak, '39, RCA, Victor Div. 15-3; Camden, N. J. C^nfrn/-Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy. 
NEW YORK—flu#ii;o—Daniel C. Sheedy '39, 390 Roycroft Blvd., Snyder. Capital District—.Andrew M. Pinckney, '41, 14 Circle Lane, Albany. 
Ccn/ra/—Daniel A. Kelley, '41, 706 Stinard St., 
SjTacuse 4. Mohau.k Valley—F. Donald Fullcm, '30, 203 Roosevelt Dr.. Utica. 
Xeu! York Cilv—^James H. Shells. '35. 50 Pine 
St. 
A'or/Afrn-Rev. Donald S. Gallagher, '24, St. Bernard's Rectory, Lyon Mountain. Rochrster—}oha M. Hedges, Jr., '43. 141 Scio 
St. 
Schnectady—George G. Thompson, '42, 514 Charles St., Scotia 2. Triple Cities—Dr. J. Worden Kane, '26, 55 Riverside Dr., Binghamton. 
OHIO—.4iron—Paul A. Bertsch, '29, 159 Oakdale Ave. 
Con/on—William H. Belden, '36, 305 22nd St., N.\\'. 
Cincinnati—^John C. Cottingham, '38, Penn Mu­tual Life Insurance Co., 1200 Union Trust BIdg. 
Cleveland—Robert S. Stack, '41, 2714 Brook­dale Ave., Parma. 
Columbus—Br. Thomas M. Hughes, '38, 481 
E. Town St. 
Ddjfon-Thomas C. Fcrneding, '40, 330 E. Had­ley Ave., Apt. I. 
Hamilton—^Judge Harry F. Wabh, '31, Munici­pal Court. 
Ohio raHej—William J. Yaeger, '42, 156 S. Park St., Wheeling, W. Va. Sandusky—.Wired A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, S. Co­lumbus Ave Toledo—John R. Malone, '42, 4805 Summit St. Youngstown—Clarence T. Sheehan, *40, "The Vindicator." 
OKLAHOMA—ru/M-AVilliam B. Padon. '42, 9 Woodland Dr., Box 1589. Oklahoma Ci/>'—Haskell .Vskew, '31, 624 Trades­men National Bank BIdg. 
OREGON—Peter F. Sandrock, '39, 6334 NE Grand .Ave., Portland. 
PEN.NSYLV.VNIA-£aj/<-rn—Leo R. McIntyTe, '28, 3004 Turner St., .Allentown. £n'r—Joseph C. Barber, '36, 705 Ariel BIdg. Harrisburg—Edward R. Eckenrode, Jr., '44, 
1951 Bellevue Rd. Monongahela Valley—George C. Martmet, *34, 
R.D. No. 1, Charleroi. 
Philadelphia-Ambrose F. Dudley, Jr., '43, 1123 N. 63rd St. Pittsburgh—Eugene J. Coyne, '33, Coyne Ave., 
.Mlison Park. 
5rran/on—Michael B. Comerford, '43, 1208 Richmont St. Wilkes-Barre-Dr. Maurice J. Regan, '31, 115 
S. Franklin St. 
H'lHiamjpor/-Frank C. Hayes, '27, 82C Erie .Ave., Renovo. 
RHODE ISLAND and S. E. M.\SSACIIUSETrS— Russell L. Hunt, '39, 412 Providence St., Woon­socket, R. I. 
TENNESSEE—.U<-m/.A«—Phil M. Canale, Jr., '40, 1325 Commerce Title BIdg. 
TEX.\S—Da/to-Edmond R. Haggar,'38, 6113 Lem­mon Ave. WouKon-diaries S. Atchison. '30, 2320 Blue­bonnet. 
San Antonio—Leonard M. Hess, *25, 201 Stan­ford Dr. 
UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearns BIdg., Salt Lake City. 
VIRGLNIA—Dr. Charies R. Riley, '39, 3508 Sem­inary Ave., Richmond 22. 
W.ASHINGTON-IC«(crn—John P. English, '33, J. 
P. English Steel Co., 465 E. 13th St., Tacoma. Spokane—John P. O'Neill, Jr., '29, 218 W. I4th .Ave. 
WEST VIRGLNLA—Albert II. Kcssing, '40, 923 Montrose Dr., S. Charleston 3. 
WISCONSIN—Gr«n Boj—Harold L. Londo, '24, Sup't., Green Bay Water Depi. Fox River ra//e}'—William H. Fieweger, '35, 497 Rivcr\v-ay, Menasha. 
LoCrojj.--August M. Grains, '28, 217 S. Front St. Milu.aukee—'Wminm C. Malaney, '41, 4012 N. 
Far^vell. South Central—John C. Brennan, '41, 2331 Eton Ridge. Madison. 
FOREIGN CLUBS Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C, '24, (key man) Dacca, East Bengal. Cuio—Christopher C. Fiugerald, '94, (key man), La Metropolitana (711), Habana. 
Waaoii-Thomas W. Flynn, Jr., '35, 5317 Opi­hi St., Honolulu, T.H. 
Manila—Anthony F. Gonzales, '25, (key man). The Insular Life .Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular Life BIdg. 
/•onoma-William J. Sheridan, '38, Box 605, .Ancon., Canal Zone. 
Puerto RICO—Paul F. McManus, '34, (key man), B & M Products Company, Box 2695, San Juan. 






