The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
/ / /
ac a • dem ic free dom 
Cownpendiuwn 
UNIVERSITY CALENDAR 
May 23, Last Class Day. June 2-3. Senior Class Day 
Exercises. 
June 4, Commencement. June 8-9. Annual Alumni Seminar. June 9-11, Class Reunions. June 20. Summer School Begins. 


BOOKS 
Bobcrt Hassenger '59, assi. prof, of socio., ed., "The Shape of Catholic Higher Education," an investiga­tion into the quality and quantity of US Catholic colleges. Nikolaus Lobkowicz, assoc. prof, of phil., ed. "Marx and the Western World," a col­lection of papers delivered at international symposium on Karl Marx held at the University last year, UND Press. Hcoxy A. Nielsen, assoc. prof, of phil., "Methods of Natural Science: An Intro­duction," a logic text deal­ing with methods of in­quiry in natural sciences. Prentice Hall. ReT, John A. 03iien, author in residence, "Catching Up With the Church," a com­prehensive summary of concilior developments in 

faith and practice. May, Herder and Herder. Rev. James J. Zatlco MA'54, PhD'57, PhD "58, "The Val­ley of Silence: Catholic Thought in Contemporary Poland," an anthology of Catholic -WTitings by Church scholars in Poland, UND Press. 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
(All conferences at the Center may be considered "Open to Alumni" unless indicated otherwise.) June 11-15. Faith and Order Colloquium. June 12-17, Joint AIA-ACSA National Teachers Training Seminar. June 13-23, Congregation of Holy Cross Priests Provin­cial Council Meeting. (Closed) June 14, Abstract and Title Assn. Meeting. June 19-28, National Sci­ence Foundation Seminar. June 19-23, Workshop in Liturgical Music. June 20, Summer Institute in Mathematics. July 20-21. Purchasing Agents Assn. Dist IV Workshop. July 30-Aug. 5, Public Rela­tions Assn. Summer Acad­emy. 

FACU LTY 
Promoted to Emeritus: Rev. John C. Bloiimiestein OSC (Economics) 
Promoted to Professor: Sal­vatore J. Bella (Manage­ment), G. Robert Blakey (Law), Frederick J. Cros­son (General Program), James L. CuUother (Accoun­tancy), William V. D'An­tonio (Sociology), Walter 
R. Johnson (Physics), Rob­ert P. Mcintosh (Biology), Rev. Eman McMullin (Phi­losophy), John A. Oesterle (Philosophy), Barth PoUak (Mathematics), John F. San­tos (Psychology), Robert J. Schultz (Architectuxe) and Albin A. Szewczyk (Me­chanical Engineering). 
Promoted to Associate Pro­fessor: William B. Berry, (Electrical Engineering), Roger K. Bretthauer (Chem­istry) , Chuen-Yen Chow (Aero-Space Engineering), Edward D. Crondall (Chem­ical Engineering), Wayne 
F. Echelberger Jr. (Civil En­gineering), Harold Esch (Bi­ology), Thomas P. Fehlner (Chemistry), J. Philip Glea­son (History), Robert G. Hayes (Chemistry), Richard 
J. Leake (Electrical Engi­neering), Stuart T. Mc-Comas (Mechanical Engi­neering), Edward Manier (Philosophy), Rev. Leon J. Mertensotto CSC (Theol­ogy). Rev. Matthew M. Mi­celi CSC (Theology), Ar­thur J. Quigley (Electrical Engineering), Robert M. Slabey (English), Mark W. Tenney (Civil Engineering) and James E. Ward (His­tory). 
Promoted to Assistant Pro­fessor: Rev. Robert J. Aust­gen CSC (Theology), An­tonio J. Botet (Modern Lan­guages), Rev. James C. Buckley CSC (Philosophy), John T. Canty (Philosophy), Neal M. Cason (Physics), John T. Garrigues (Clas­sics), Rev. William B. Hund CS C (Philosophy), Rev. James W. Simonson CSC (Classics) and Donald G. Vogl (Art). 
Recognized for 25 Years of Service: Gilfred A. Burdick (Physical Education), Fran­cis R. Maxwell (Audio-Visual) and Arthur J. Quig­ley (Electrical Engineer­ing). 
Dr. Donald J. Pasto, assoc. prof, of chem., awarded an Alfred P. Sloan Foundation fellowship for basic re­search. 
Dr. James D. StashefL assoc. prof, of math, awarded an Alfred P. Sloan Foundation 

Two M^eaderS in the us CathoUc hierarchy and a US senator head the list of 10 persons who will be given honorary doctor of laws degrees by the University at the June 4th commencement exercises. The Most Rev. John F. Dearden, archbishop of Detroit and head of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops and the US Catholic Conference, will receive an honorary degree. In addition he will be the bac­calaureate speaker and principal celebrant at the graduation Mass. Lawrence Cardinal Shehan, archbishop of Baltimore and head of the US Bishop's Committee for Ecumenical Affairs, 
is the other prelate who will receive an honorary degree. The commencement address will be delivered by Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy (D., Minn.) who will also be awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree. Others receiving honorary degrees are (from left to right): Deardon; Shehan; James E. Armstrong '25, retiring after 41 years as executive secretary of the Alumni Association; O. C. Carmichael Jr., chairman of the board of Associates Investment Co. and a Notre Dame trustee; and Dr. James A. Reyniers, founder and first director of Notre 
fellowship for basic re­search. 

GRANTS 
Aerospace Engineering. $10,000 from NSF for study of rotating-field magneto-hydrodynamic thrust bear­ing under the direction of Dr. Chuen-Yen Chow, asst. prof, of aerospace engr. Aerospace Engineering. $5,125 from Space Recovery Research Center for para­foil experiments under the direction of Dr. John Nico­laides, prof, of aerospace engr. and dept. head. Center ior Study of Man in Contemporary Society. $276,680 from Office of Eco­nomic Opportunity for study of effects of social services for the poor under the direction of Dr. George Shuster, dir. of the Center. 
Chemistry Department, 
$35,500 from NSF for the detection and characteriza­tion of unstable species by mass spectrometry under the direction of Dr. Thomas Fehlner, asst. prof, of chem. Chemistry Department. $3,000 from E. I. duPont de Nemours Co. for postgrad­uate teaching assistant award under the direction ot Dr. John Magee, dept. head. 

Chemistry Department, $1,000 from Merck, Sharp and Dohme Co. Founda­tion for grant-in-aid of research under the di­rection of Dr. Jolm Magee, dept. head. 
Chemistry Department $13,­446 from NIH for ESR studies of conjugation by sulfur under the direction of Dr. Robert G. Hayes, asst. prof, of chem. Chemistry Department. $6,­600 from NIH for predoc­toral research fellowship under the direction of Dr. Roger K. Bretthauer, asst prof, of chem. 
Electrical Engineering. $10,­
000 from NSF for study of optimization of phase lock loop systems under the di­rection of Dr. John Urban, asst. prof, of elec. engr. English Department. Na­tional Endowment for the Humanities summer sti­pend support to Dr. Thom­as Jemielity, asst. prof, of English for research, "Eighteenth Century Con­ceptions of Samuel John­son's Journey to the West­ern Islands of Scotland." Graduate School. $103,100 from NASA for predoctoral research training program in the fields of science and engineering under the di­
Dame's famed Lobund Laboratory for germfree animal research. Not pictured but also receiving degrees: Charles S. Desmond, retired chief judge of the New York State Court of Appeals and member of the Notre Dame Law School Advisory Council; Harold Howe II, US Commissioner of Education; Franklin D. Murphy, chancellor of the University of California at Los Angeles; and Edmund A. Stephan '33, a Chicago attorney who recently was elected to head the reconstituted Notre Dame Board of Trustees. 
AlUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE rection of Rev. Paul E. Beichner CSC, dean of the Grad. School. 
Graduate SchooL four grants, $22,500, $60,977, $68,­700 and $28,035 from NSF for graduate traineeship programs under the direc­tion of Rev. Paul E. Beich­ner CSC, dean of the Grad. School. 
Mathematics Depaitmeat 
$16,525 from NSF for sec­ondary science training program under the direc­tion of Dr. Abraham Goetz, assoc. prof, of math. 
Mathematics Department. 
$113,820 from NSF for sum­mer institute for math teachers under the direc­tion of Dr. Abraham Goetz, assoc. prof, of math. 
Mechanical Engineering. 
$10,000 from NSF for study of stabilized march tech­nique for neutron transport and diffusion, under the direction of John W. Lucey, asst. prof, of mech. engr. 
Mechanicol Engineering. 
$6,500 from CIS Corp. for research equipment, mono­chromator, under the direc­tion of Dr. Jerome Novotny, prof, of mech. engr. 
Mechanical Engineering. 
$15,000 from Ford Motor Co. for enriching the engineer­ing program under the di­rection of Dr. Edward Jerg­er, prof, of mech. engr. and dept head. 
Mechanical Engineering. 
$1,020 from Western Elec­tric Co. for graduate re­search equipment under the direction of Dr. Edward Jerger, prof. mech. engr. and dept head. Mediaeval Institute. $106,­800 from NSF for microfilm­ing of the manuscript and archival collection of Am­brosiana Library under the direction of Canon A. L. Gabriel, prof, and director of the Institute. 
Microbiology Department. 
$25,023 from NIH for study of influence of antibody on antibody-producing cells under the direction of Dr. Albert Nordin, asst prof, of microbio. 
Microbiology Department 
$21,147 from NIH for study of mineral metabolism in germfree rots under the di­rection of Dr. Bernard Wostmann, prof, of micro­bio. 
IGcTolnoIogy Oepattment 
$54,048 from Office of Naval Research for study of age, stress" and viral infection in germfree animals under the direction of Dr. Theodore Starr, assoc. proL of mi­crobio. 
tCciobiology Department 
$56,811 from NASA for ap­plications of the germfree cmimal to space ecology under the direction of Dr. Theodore J. Starr, ctssoa proL of microbio. and Dr. Morris Wagner, ossoa proL of microbio. 
BGcrobioIogy Department 
$2,975 from Marion County Cancer Society for research equipment imder the direc­tion of Dr. Albert Nordin, asst prot of microbio. 
SGcrobiology Department 
$10,095 from NIH for study of biogensis and control of nitrate respiration in bacteria under the direc­tion of Dr. Ronald J. Dow­ney, asst prof, of microbio. 
KGcrobioIogy Department 
$50,000 from Office of Naval Research for study of phy­siology of immunological phenomena in germfree an­imals under the direction of Dr. Morris Pollard, prof, of microbio. and dept head. 
IGcrobioIogy Deportment 
$55,818 from NIH for study of neoplastic diseases in germfree rodents under the direction of Dr. Morris Pol­lard, prof, of microbio. and dept head. 
Philosophy Department 
National Endowment for the Humanities award for study of theory and prac­tice from Marx to contem­porary Soviet philosophy under the direction of Dr. Nikolous Lobkowicz, ossoa prof, of phil. 
PhilosopIiT Department 
National Endowment for the Humanities award for postdoctoral fellowship for research, "Conceptual An­alysis of Modcdities" under the direction of John Canty, instr. in Gen. Prog. VniTersity. $8,245 from NSF for senior foreign scientist fellowship in chemistry un­der the direction of Rev. John Walsh, VP for aca­demic affairs and Gunther Schenck, visiting prof, of chem. 




Aiumni Ask 
Beemergence oi Alumni Dialogue 

TO THE EDITOR: Congratulalions on the "Emergence of Alumni Dialogue." Considering the excellent quality of the recent contributions I hope that the series will continue for there is a dangerous tendency in this age of underthink and overkill to oversimplify an ambiguous reality and to thus face a tragic loss of perspective. The university should take the lead in defining the values and proper perspectives which we so desperately need. There must be a commitment, not only to finding new answers, but also to programs of action by which they are initiated. So I applaud the recent changes on the campus and look for the day when we will be able to answer "Yes" to the question asked by Hmrpei's. I hope it will be soon, for the challenges of the world today must be met with more than just "Green Power" and a haircut. 
G. W. Pfeiffenberger '62 Lancaster, Pa. 
TO THE EDITOR: I am concerned that not one letter was published in the March-April ALUMNUS from a graduate prior to 1943 taking issue with the statements of Ambrose Dudley. In case this lack of response from the "ole timers" should be interpreted to imply approval, let me assure you that I am in complete agreement with the intelligent criticism presented by our capable younger Alumni. Fortunately, I have graduates from many universities, including ND, in my classes at Loyola and have been impressed with their knowledge and respect for the fundamental principles of morality. They have been taught the meaning of at least one of Mr. Dudley's greatest words—duty. They fully under­stand the meaning of duty of human solidarity which is emphasized by Pope Paul in his encyclical Popularum Progressio: "nationalism is a major obstacle opposed to the formation of a world vrhich is just." I trust Mr. Dudley would not include the social encyclicals in his reference to "alien philosophy which has crept into the curriculum of these students." 
Louis P. Buckley '28 
Chicago 
TO THE EDITOR: I am a woman who was lucky enough to marry a man with brains, character and initiative. He went to your school, but I am finding it very difficut to reconcile him with the creature exalted by Mr. Dudley in his article two months ago. It is to your credit that you found it fair and reasonable to print a little adverse mail on the article. Jingoism, Cant and Steam-rolling cannot be excused in the Alumni magazine. And there's also a little moral matter of shovring two sides of the story. 
Mrs. John T. Sullivan "54 
New York City 
TO THE EDITOR: The article "The Lost Image" by Bud Dudley will more than likely set off a bomb of controversy. In our own undergraduate days it was popular to be rebel­lious. We devised ways to stay out or sneak out after hours; to smuggle alcoholic beverages on campus and to lampoon a good many of the traditions we now hold dear. We apparently are in an era when rebellion against authority is even more prononuced. Freedoms never dreamed of a few decades ago, even at Notre Dame, are now accepted as commonplace. Not that we argue with this. We are in a changing world and less and less discipline seems to be becoming more and more the vogue. We cannot take issue entirely with rebellion either. Our country was built by rebels, a fact which some of us may have forgotten. But with a difference. Rebellion against oppression or injustice is justifiable, while rebellion without purpose is anarchy. 
In all likelihood, a goodly number of the younger Alumni will look on Bud's article as flag-waving and "comball." With the passing of time, though, to many of them the inscription over the war memorial door of Sacred Heart, "For God, Country and Notre Dame," will have as much meaning as it does for the "fogies." May there always be room for all of us. 
Cliff Prodehl '32 
Malvern, Pa. 
TO THE EDITOR: A statement some months after the fact that Bud Dudley's views are his own and not those of the University or the Alumni Association is worthless. Con­sidering his position and the forum which he used, it is to be expected that most readers would interpret his remarks as having official sanction. The obvious way to prevent a repetition of such an incredibly immature approach to the problem of today's universities is to prevent the election of individuals who maintain such a simplistic view of life. To this end I would suggest that in future elections of members to the Alumni Board a brief statement from each candidate to be sent to Alumni outlining his view of the University and the role it plays in our society. 
John W. Lucey '57 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
TO THE EDITOR: For reasons which are both more personal and more professional than those of most of my fellow Alumni, I have watched with especial pride my alma mater's rise to a position of academic eminence. I have been some­what miystified, however, by the general public's failure to recognize this. But now all is crystal cleor. Bud Dudley has been delivering his "The Lost Image" speech far and wide for lo these many years. 
R. William Rauch, Jr. '50 Philadelphia, Pa. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 

The surrounding columns of 
front the 

Alumni inquiry and discus­sion are the most welcomed copy this editor receives. They editor represent seldom-heard reac­


tnanaging 
tion to previous issues of the magazine — their news stories and features. And they come from the people most important to the editor, his readership, the Alumni. 
Today, in an age characterized by transition and change, this spirit of inquiry and discussion is more im­portant than at any other time in Notre Dame's century and a quarter of life. More than 80 Alumni Club presi­dents, constituting the newly formed Alumni Senate, were witness to this fact in early May when for three days they listened, questioned and discussed the spiritual, intellectual and physical changes on campus. 
I kaow that at first most of these Club presidents were disturbed, if not outwardly alarmed, at some of the things they heard. And yet, I'm equally confident that these same Alumni representatives returned home satis­fied that the direction in which Notre Dame is now headed is a true and sincere one; and if supported, this direction eventually will lead the University to a great­ness never before realized in Catholic higher education. 
But advising Alumni Board and Senate members of the development of Notre Dame is not sufficient. Trends in higher education and changes at the University in particular must be related to the Alumni at large. This, in essence, spells out the purpose of the ALUMNUS mag­azine. In its six issues a year, the magazine attempts to report the progress and to describe the pulse of today's Notre Dame. However, the ALUMNUS cannot be con­strued as being a one-way medium, a means of commu­nication that disseminates its content without a feedback. If this particular medium — this particular magazine — is to be an efTective communications tool, then it must know the feelings, listen to the questions and openly re­ceive the reactions of the people most important to it. 
Happily this concept is now being realized. It •was evident in the March-April ALUMNUS and again in this issue. But it must be continued and broadened. Alumni inquiry and opinion — so long as it is responsible and rooted in factual accuracy — will forever constitute a valuable contribution to this institution. It has and it will continue to reflect an involvement in Notre Dame that goes beyond financial contributions alone. It is a deep-rooted constructive involvement dedicated to mak­ing this place a really great university. 
Space in the next issue of the ALUMNUS is still open. Alumni need no written invita-/^ ^ tion to participate. Room for ^/TJ /^^ their column is a standing ^ilyy^^""^* order. It's the sort of copy the >;,4»i»/^i^Z^»t/''^ editor welcomes most. / / 
INDE X  
Alumni  Ask Cover Story 2  Law  (5  School  46  
ClassesaubsCompendiumEditorials  Inside  24  48  Cover 4  PhotoanyPotpourriSportsTopside Briefs  58 6  54  13  

TO THE EDITOR: It is springtime on the campus and so we Alumni opened our copy of the ilLUMNUS to look for the names of the stars of next fall's'football games. Instead, it was a shock to find the varsi^ team of "Duty, Honor. Country" taking such a beating'on the practice field from "Love, Understanding, Peace, Man, Justice and Change." From what this Aluimius read, iof the scrimmage in the March-April ALUMNUS, it looks'like "Change" will be on the varsity team next fall. The coach who controls the players' actions realizes the part that chance, luck and instinct play in the game. Wisdom says that whether the team wins or loses it is the faith of the players in the value of the game which produces the win at the end of the season. 
Roger L. Hosbein '50 Winnetka, IIL 

TO THE EDITOR: I have just read the March-April issue of the ALUMNUS in which much of the material concerns Mr. Dudley's earlier address. In my judgment it is the best and probably the most important issue of the magazine that I hove seen in the past II years. 'The highly articulate and highly concerned rejoinders in the issue demonstrate in a way not otherwise possible that the University is producing and has produced intelligent and committed persons who can think and judge for themselves without recourse to sentimental slogans and nostalgic cliches. I have never been more encouraged about the future of Notre Dame education. May 1 offer my support and encouragement, too, to the long overdue mature policy of putting controversial Alumni opinion into print There is a strength of mind and heart in those rejoinders that seem to have been missed by the Hcaper's article on contemporary Notre Dame. 
Douglas Cole '56 
New Haven, Conn. 

... ond the final word 
TO THE EDITOR: In the March-April issue in the story "Merger: Yes or NO?" the enrollment of Scant Mary's Divi­sion of Graduate Education is described as "wholly female." Twenty-four of our students, their wives and cMdren, or their fiancees might take serious exception to this statement Although they comprise a small minority, these men are deeply appreciated by the majority sex. Applications are indicative of a change in direction toward a more favorable balance in the futxire. 
Arthur E. Smith, Dean of Graduate Education 
Saint Mary's College 

The ALUMNUS is published bimonthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dome, Ind. AfS&b. Entered as second-class matter Oct. 1, 1939, at the post oRice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 


Editorials 
May 1967 June Vol. 45, No. 2 

Togmther, Imtortmmd und Inspired 
In many ways Notre Dame is similar to Cape Kennedy. From the University, ideas are laimched with varying frequency and force. Many have achieved spectacular orbit The most identifialjle characteristic, however, is the constant planning for new thrusts, new orbits, new ideas. 
Seldom has this nature been more dramatically evident than on the weekend of May 6. It was, in the older tradition, the occasion of the Old-Timers football game, the end of spring practice. And Coach Parseghian and his staff did, indeed, launch another team that promises to make a most successful orbit in the fall. 
But the major impact of the weekend was broader and deeper. The new governance program of Notre Dame went into effect The Board of Trustees, under a group of 12 Fellows, is now the complete governing structure of the University. Notre Dsune is no longer under the direct governance of the Congregation of Holy Cross, no longer a property of and responsible to the Provincial or the Superior General. Members of the Congregation involved in the University—^and the present personnel was confirmed by the new Board— remain as employes of the Trustees. 
On this same weekend, the long-studied, long-planned, vitally imptortant Faculty Manual governing the relations between the faculty and the University ^vas accepted by the new Board of Trustees. 
The restructuring of the Student Government, though not directly related to this same historic week­end, has been a continuous and action-packed progress which has already achieved results that former gen­erations of students could never have envisioned. But because student governments turn over with annual up­heavals, the progress is continually frustrating to the current student leaders. The only point to be made in this segment of campus life is that trustees, administra­tors, faculty and alumni listening to the new and to the retiring Student Gtovemment heads were acutely aware of the tremendous growth and change in student in­fluence and identity in the University's pattern. 
Against this backdrop of history and progress, the Alumni Association made its own significant contribu­tion—^to the future and to the total pattern of Notre Dame and its destiny — by the introduction of the Alumni Senate. The Senate is the creation of the 13­member Alumni Board of a much broader based and more widely representative group of Alumni who will represent Alumni through the local Alumni Clubs (or, in the future, possibly by regional determinations of similar size and purpose). 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 

To get the Senate into action, the Board created the first membership roster from the current presidents of the Alumni clubs who were invited to the campus for the weekend. More than half the 172 presidents, representing a probable 80 percent of our US Alumni population, attended the two-day meeting. The sessions were partly in the tradition of the Club Presidents Council. But the real significance of the Senate, the purpose of the bulk of the 1967 program, was to establish the rapjKirt between a larger group of thoroughly informed Alumni and the University, a rapport which the Alumni Board has achieved and which can only come from an extended briefing in depth by administration, faculty and students. 
It is too early to assess any values as specifics. But the broad facts are most stimulating. The University today consists of four major and vital segments: admin­istration, faculty, students and alumni. The communica­tions channels between these four areas must be con­standy open, and open as two-way channels—programs and problems defined by each, and the resulting impact and opinions fed back to each. 
The diverse program of the weekend was a vivid highlight picture of a campus that is commanding the attention and respect of the academic world. The price of this leadership is the presence of problems that might be escajied by letting other campuses set the precedents. But the rewards of this leadership are the active and excited minds of every segment of the new and growing Notre Dame—a University holding to the eternal verities of its heritage, but of)en to the new forms and the new substance which the explosion of knowledge is pouring into the academic world, essential additions to the preparation for proper leadership in the world ahead. 
Alumni, particularly, were made aware that much of the disturbing publicity of this era stems from the colorful but peripheral activities and minority person­alities that occupy every campus. 
They were made convincingly aware that there is a much broader and deepier commitment in faculty and students to the problems and their solutions that a troubled society faces. The involvement of hundreds of students and faculty members in the most demanding and intensive humanitarian movements of our times was impressive. So was the large number of students— more than half the total student body—^who willingly enter uj)on the discipline and the conditioning rigors of the interhall athletic program where guts and good will abound but where there is no glamor and no material reward. 
In a sense Notre Dame is on a plateau, the highest in its history. But like all the other plateaus that have marked the short pauses in the long climb, this one, too, becomes not a level place of settiement, but a solid base from which new programs and new people will continue to go forth with increasing force and frequency to achieve the old principles and purposes as they relate to our changing world. 
There is a vital part for each of us to play. To play that part well we must know the parts of those with whom we must combine. Together, informed, and inspired, litde is impossible. 
James E. Armstrong '25 Alumni Association Executive Secretary 
ALUMNUS MAY 1947 JUNE 
To you, our most recent graduates and newest Alumni, a hearty welcome! I am sure you are already beginning to sense the great transiticm from undei^raduate to graduate. On campus you were, of necessity, thrown together with numerous common interests, bonds and goals. Now, however, this coordinating force has been removed and each of you must go your separate way. 
We have all heard a great deal of talk recently about people not wanting to become "involved." It is the easiest way out and requires the minimum, if any,' effort In the past, it has been our experience that a good many of our new Alumni fall into this category. They hesitate to become involved mth their local Alumni club until they have been away from the Uni­versity at least five years. We know some of you will be attending graduate school and will have a tou ^ schedule. We know, too, you will be buying a home and the repairs will be taking up most of your time. We know many of you are planning to be married and it will take some time to get settled. But, we also know that you can always find time for things that are most important to you. 
You are bound to be calledvpn often to share your time on community projects. The more successful you become the more you will be'.in demand. We are asking that your first "aHmnitiiiraf' be to your nearest Alumni club. I strcmgly ui ^ you to do diis at once. Through the years you will derive a great deal of personal satisfaction from this association. It will also help your local Alumni dub to continue to be a ioax for good in your community. 
Arribrose F. Dudley Jr. '43 Alumni Association President 


Potpourri 

AN UNMISTAKABLE DIRECTION 
MOVING with similar insight and priests and six laymen exercising spirit as did the Vatican in its certain powers and functions granted document of the Church in the mod­by the charter to the founders of em world, the University of Notre Notre Dame and formerly restricted Dame in May issued its own procla­to six clerical trustees. mation on the role of the Catholic • The election by the Fellows of university today. It did so in word a predominantly lay Board of Trustees and action when it announced the —30 laymen and seven priests—and reorganization of its government to delegation to it of virtually all powers give laymen a more active and re­for the governance of Notre Dame. sponsible role in the administration • The adoption of new statutes of of its affairs. This historical decision, the University and new bylaws of the making Notre Dame the first major Board of Trustees. Roman Catholic university to shift • The election of Edmund A. from clerical to lay control, was Stephan '33, Chicago attorney, as accompanied by related events re­chairman of the Board of Trustees flecting the unmistakable character of and Boston attorney Paul F. Hellmuth the University's new partnership. At '40 as its secretary. its spring meeting of the Board of 
• The confirmation in office (by Trustees, the University revealed: the trustees) of Father Hesburgh and 

• The creation of the Fellows of the other University officers. University, a group of six Holy Cross • The creation of the post of vice-
ALUMNUS MAY 1947 JUNE 

THE UNIVERSITY 
president for research and sponsored programs and the appointment of Dr. Frederick D. Rossini to fill that posi­tion. 
• The approval by the Trustees of a new faculty manual. Creation of the Fellows. While Notre Dame has passed from exclusively clerical to predominatly lay control. Father Hesburgh stressed that one of the Fellows' major responsibiUties is to maintain "the essential character of the University as a Catholic institution of higher learning." Notre Dame's newly adopted statutes, the President continued, provide that "the Univer­sity shall retain in perpetuity its identity as such an institution." Fur­thermore, it was noted, the bylaws specify that the trustees shall elect the president of Notre Dame from among the priests of the Indiana Province. 
The recently appointed fellows of the University are: Rev. John J. Cavanaugh CSC '23, former Notre Dame president; Robert W. Galvin, chairman of the board of Motorola, Inc.; J. Peter Grace LLD '60, pres­ident of W. R. Grace and Co.; Paul 
F. Hellmuth '40, managing partner of Hale and Dorr law firm in Boston; Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC '38, Notre Dame president; Rev. Edmund 
P. Joyce CSC '37, Notre Dame's ex­ecutive vice-president; Rev. Howard 
J. Kenna CSC '26, superior of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross; Rev. Charles I. Mc-Carragher CSC '32, Notre Dame vice-president for student affairs; I. A. O'Shaughnessy LLD '47, president of Globe Oil and Refining Co.; Edmund 
A. Stephan '33, partner in the Chi­cago law firm of Mayer, Friedlich, Spiess, Tiemey, Brown and Piatt; Rev. John E. Walsh CSC '45, Notre Dame vice-president for academic affairs; and Bernard J. Vol! '17, chairman of the Sibley Machine and Foundry Corp. of South Bend. Statutes and Bylaws. In the new statutes of the University, the Fellows, a self-perpetuating group, have certain basic powers including those to elect Trustees, to adopt and amend the statutes and bylaws of the University, and to approve the transfer of a substantial portion of the Univer­sity's physical properties. Such actions require a two-thirds vote. All other powers of governance have been delegated by the Fellows to the Board of Trustees which will function much the same as the trustees of other major universities throughout the country. Expansion of Board. Notre Dame's new Board of Trustees consists of the Fellows, 22 other men who, along with the six lay Fellows, served on the earlier Board of Lay Trustees established in 1920, and four newly appointed members. 
The new members include: Dr. Thomas P. Carney '37, senior vice-president of research and develop­ment for G. D. Searle and Co. of Chicago; John T. Ryan, chairman of the board of Mine Safety Appliances Co., Pittsburgh; Dr. O. Meredith Wilson, president of the University of Minnesota; and George D. Woods, president of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Washington, DC. New Vice-President. The creation of the new vice-presidency to be filled by Dr. Rossini "becomes mandatory," Father Hesburgh said, "with Notre Dame's deepening involvement in the most sophisticated research in the physical and social sciences and the humanities." The President indicated that more than 180 research and re­search-related projects are currently underway with the support of grants exceeding $7 million annually. 
Dr. Rossini, who becomes Notre Dame's first vice-president for research and sponsored programs, is a member of the National Academy of Sciences. He has been serving as dean of the College of Science at the University since 1960. FacuHy. The new Faculty Manual approved by the Trustees: 
•
 ReafiBrms the University's com­mitment to academic freedom and specifies the responsibilities of the institution and individual faculty members toward its implementation. 

•
 Provides for the creation of a Faculty Senate which shall make reconmiendations on matters germane to the University's Academic Council. 

•
 Creates mechanisms whereby fa­culty members are consulted in the appointments of dean and department chairmen. 

•
 Specifies procedures for faculty appointment, promotion, tenure and dismissal. Behind tiie Restructuring. Father Hes­burgh noted that the chcinges in Notre Dame's government emanate from many months of discussion, formally and informally, involving the trustees and officers of the University, its lay and religious faculty and other mem­bers of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 

In a formal statement of poUcy, the Fellows of the University expressed the "strong conviction" that Notre Dame's reorganization is vital for these reasons: 

•
 The increasing public character of the University as evidenced by the broad financial support it receives from charitable foundations, business corporations, govenunent agencies and the public at large. 

•
 The dramatic growth the Uni­versity has experienced in the past few decades which has been ac­companied by unprecedented and complex problems in administration, fiscal matters, plaiming, development and public relations. 

•
 The need to draw upon all av^able skills in the operation of the University, both lay and clerical, to assure its continuity, growth and ad­vancement. 

•
 The importance of granting the laity a more indejiendent and re­sponsible role in the governance of Catholic institutions as a sequel to the pronouncements of the Second Vatican Council. 



CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD STEPHAN and FATHER HESBURGH 
A change viewed "with a great deal of enthusiasm" 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
A casual or even careful reading " of the Faculty Manual reveals little that would not be equally true of academic procedures in any university — which is as it should be, since we are a university before we are a Catholic university. The Manual has a few words in one place about "Cadiolic character," and the "aims of the institution" are mentioned in another context. What does Notre Dame aim to be as a Catholic university? What is its Cadiolic character? 
I cannot really say in any lengthy, precise, or definitive de­tail. But I do owe the Notre Dame family at least a few words on the subject. Hopefully, those following me will improve on this; but then, we've lived and grown here, as a Catholic university, for about 125 years witli no words to date. These words are at least an attempt at self-identitj'. High time, one might say. 
Briefly, a Catholic university should begin by being a great uni­versity, in tile full richness of the modem university's reality. Notre Dame should be, first and foremost, a community' of scholars, learning and teaching together, and together dedicated to ser\'e in our day man­kind's total development—spiritual, intellectual, cultural and material. The first two tasks, learning and teaching, are classical in the uni­versity, aldiough learning is cloaked today in the tenn, research. The third task of ser\'ice to hu­manity is new in our generation as a specific university function. 
Granting Notre Dame's commit­ment as a university to this triple task, this should also be a place where all the great questions are asked, where an exciting conversa­tion about the most important hu­man concerns is continually in progress, where the mind constant­ly grows as the values of intelli­gence and wsdom are cherished and exercised in full freedom. Any great university must be thus gener­ally characterized, or it is neither a imiversity nor great. 
Notre Dame, as a Catholic uni­versity, must be all of this and something more. The University, as Catholic, is universal in a double sense: first, its concern touches the moral as well as the intellectual di­mensions of all the questions it asks itself and its students; and, sec­ondly, it must emphasize die right­ful centrality of philosophy and theology among its intellectual con­cems if there is to be real adequacy of knowledge in the university, universality in the mind's quest for knowledge and meaning, rightness and relevance, understanding and wisdom. 

This dual commitment is more personal than institutional, and can only be made by persons in that atmosphere of freedom which above all must characterize the Cath­olic university in our day. One might as­sume that oiur faculty and students, whatever their personal faith, are united in believing that intellectual virtues and moral values are impor­tant; that the good and wise man, as we are given to perceive him by our intelligence and conscience, is the truest personal measure of our ultimate success as edu­cators and educated. 
Notre Dame must 
FATHER

give vital, living wit­
'High time.

ness to the wholeness of 
truth from all sources, both human and divine, while recognizing the real sacredness of all truth from whatever source, and the validity and autonomy of all paths to truth. Notre Dame should reflect pro­foundly, and wt h full commitment, its belief in the existence of God and in God's total revelation to man, especially the Christian mes­sage. This university should also reflect the deep mystery of salva­tion in history, the inner, inalien­able dignity and rights of every single human person, recognizing at the same time both man's free­dom and his fallibility, buttressing man's every move towards a more profound perception of truth and a more humane achievement of justice in our times. Notre Dame must try to do all of this in the most ecumenical and open spirit. Somehow, all of this Judeo-Chris­tian tradition should be reflected at Notre Dame in the very human at­mosphere of this beautiful campus 
NOTRE DAME'S PRESIDENT ADDRESSING THE FACULTY ON 



WHY ARE WE A CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY? 
—in a spirit of civility as well as of love, in openness as well as in commitment, in our pilgrim search as well as in our enduring faith and hope. We may do all of this poorly—but we cannot, as a Cath­olic university in the modern con­text, attempt to do less. What is most important is that this en­
deavor must be the per­sonal responsibility of each one of us. 
It is the most sober­ing of thoughts that we, fallible human beings, must try to create this kind of institution, re­alizing full weU that, in its total vision, such a Catholic university has never really existed and, even today, many think the very concept impos­sible. I think we can do it, clergy and laity. Catholics and non-Catholics, working to­gether, each contribut­ing something, each be­
HESBURGH 
lieving it is worth the 
one might say 
I have often tried to visualize the reality of the Catholic univer­sity, the ideal Notre Dame, if you will, in images, especially these three: 
•
 A beacon, shining with the great light of intelligence illumined by faith and faith seeking an ever-greater understanding and expres­sion of what we believe, in words that really speak to modem man, to his hopes and fears, to his aspirations and anguishes, to his frustrations and his generosity. 

•
 A bridge across the chasm of misunderstandings that divide so profoundly so much of the modem world, the believers and unbelievers, the rich and the poor, the free and the slave, the developed and the imderdeveloped nations, the North and the South, the East and the West, the knowing and the igno­rant, the material and the spiritual, the scientist and the humanist, and all the rest. Notre Dame should be a bridge, touching and deeply con-


ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 

cemed with both sides of every human chasm. Notre Dame can be 
ACADEME 

a mediator, a bridge builder, a go-between, an honest intellectual broker promoting understanding and peace. Again, in this context, Notre Dame means each one of us. 
• A crossroads. Notre Dame can and must be a crossroads where all the vital intellectual currents of our times meet in dialogue, where the Church confronts the modem world \vith all its insights and all its anguishes, with all its possibili­ties and all its despairs, where the great issues of Church in the world today are plumbed to their depths. Notre Dame should increasingly become a place where every sincere inquirer is welcome, listened to, and respected by a serious con­sideration of what he has to say about his belief or unbelief, his certainty and uncertainty. Notre Dame must be a place where dif­ference of culture and religion and conviction can coexist with friend­ship, civility, hospitality, and es­pecially love. It is a place where the polarity of a Catholic Weltan­schauung and belief can be a real catalyst for needed discussion, and the creator of an atmosphere of concern for the spiritual dimensions of man's nature and destiny, where the endless conversation is har­bored, not foreclosed. 
There is a vision of all of this in Vatican II's Constitution on the Church in the Modem World. This document, which I commend to all members of the Notre Dame community, is the real base for a new charter for Catholic univer­sities that merits further study from all who live and work in Catholic universities. 
All of this has been sketchy, intuitive, imaginative, perhaps even rhetorical. But from one who has spent most of his adult life trying to reach greatness for Catholic higher education, it is at least and at best an honest statement, a word of hope for all who might hear, understand, and respond. 
A large part of the honesty is that all who are really interested in the vision of a great Catholic uni-; versity in our times are welcome to help make it come true at Notre Dame. I hope that this Faculty Manual, thus presented at some length, will create a context where­in all the faculty may be enabled to do this effectively, even enthusi­astically. This is what I think this Faculty Manual is all about. 
"Substantial Potential" 
Professional confirmation of the ex­cellence of Notre Dame's science program was voiced in mid-May by the National Science Foundation with its announcement of a $4.7 million grant to the University. One of only five imiversities in the country to receive the three-year grants imder the University Science Development Program, Notre Dame was chosen on the basis of its substantial ]x>tential for elevating and maintaining a high quality of scientific activities. 
Acknowledging the $4,766,000 grant. Executive Vice-President Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC said: "The University is most grateful to the Na­tional Science Foundation for its vote of confidence in the place of science at Notre Dame. Its grant will enable us to take great strides in meeting the educational challenges brought about by the virtual explosion of knowledge in almost all areas of scientific investigation." 
To meet this explosion in the scientific field, Notre Dame has pro-prosed a $15 million, five-year plan for the development of science. Speak­ing before science students and faculty at the April "Challenges in Science" lecture, former Dean of the College of Science Dr. Frederick D. Rossini revealed that the University expects to spend nearly $6 million for new buildings, $5 million for additions to the science faculty and $2 million for equipment and supplies. 
As newly appointed vice-president for research and sponsored prc^rairis. Dr. Rossini will in large part oversee the implementation of new science teaching science and an increase in 
interdisciplinuy programs. 
Through the five-year science pro­
gram, the University wiU strengthen 
existing programs' ':in life science, 
chemistry, mathet^tics, and physics 
as well as develop iniew interdiscipli­
nary areas of scientffic investigation. 
In addition, new .prograins \nll be 
started in mpieculai;- biology, bio­
physics, biocIietnistiy,\.rcheniicid bk>­
physics, solid-state |>h^cs and chem­
ical physics. • .^ 7VJ .'y.';. 
Current areas^pfilsci^tific study to 
be strengthened: LlqFr^^e addition of 
faculty membo^'and'ifhe improvement 
of facilities and.i^equijnnent include: 
genetics; environiineatal biology; de­
velopmental biolbigyj'physiology; phys­
ical, organic'aiid;;inprganic chemistry; 
nuclear, theoi^ticai' and elementary 
piarticle physics;/i^lgebra; analysis; 
topology; and geometry. 
The NSF grant:;aIso includes funds 
to help cpnstiTJct a Life Science 
Building in theifsqutheast comer of 
the Memorial: ;;":tibirary quadrangle. 
The new Lbbund Laboratory building, 
which will be part of the Life Science 
Building, iS: npjv. "under construction 
there. 'jy' 
Dr. Beniard \ Waldman, associate dean of the CbUege of Science, said ' that while none of the NSF fimds are earmarKed fw'die Lobund Laboratory —^famed fcfrVgeftifree animal research —^and the -!^diation Laboratory—a world center for-research in radiation chemistry^feth these laboratories wiU provide "sigiuficant and important cpUateriil: support" few the five-year science deyelppment program. 
Since 19(50,: ihp nimiber of under­igraduate science majors has increased 

NOTRE DAME'S UFE SCIENCE BUILDING Newest venture into Science 
research and instructional programs. Referring to the fantastic expansion rate of the scientific body of knowl­edge, which now doubles every eight years. Dr. Rossini stressed the need for reconsidering the methodology of from 400 to 600, the graduate stu­dents from 200 to 300, and the faculty from 84 to 130. The next 10 years, Waldman said, should see growth to 1,000 undergraduates, 500 graduate students and 170 faculty members. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 



Sequel to Zahm 

"It's a bird — it's a plane — no, it's 
the parafoil!" Such was the cry on 
campus April 29 as Notre Dame's 
aero-space engineers unveiled their 
latest contribution to the world of 
flight. The parafoil, a parachute-
Uke device, was brought to the na­
tion's attention during a man-flight 
test demonstration before NBC net­
work news cameras. 

Resembling somediing from the Jules Verne drawing board, the para­foil is actually a nylon-cloth wing which employs a series of long cells to control air flow. The movement of the air through these cells actually in­creases the parafoil's stability in high wnds. Neither a glidercraft nor a parachute, the parafoil combines the the advantages of each to produce a highly maneuverable craft. 
Dr. John Nicolaides, chairman of the aero-space engineering depart­ment and leading proponent of the parafoil, foresees definite advantages in its widespread use. "The parafoil deploys reliability — we haven't had a failure in t\vo years of testing. And its flight characteristics, especially its glid­ing ability, are far superior to those of the conventional parachute. It is also much more accurate." 
University researchers have been in­volved in parafoil development for close to three years, ever since In­ventor Domina Palbert first brought it to their attention. Jalbert, who holds the patent on the device, wanted to explore the parafoil's aeronautical characteristics in Notre Dame's -wind tunnel. The test results were so prom­ising that the aero-space men imme­diately began to develop its potential. 
Since diat time the parafoil has been introduced into the Air Force's Flight Dynamics Lab where it is being tested for possible military applica­tions. Because of its highly accurate landing control and the fact that it can be dropped up to a mile from the target area and radio-controlled in, it is being considered for air delivery of supplies in Vietnam. 
The parafoil has also joined the space race. NASA has applied the kite 

NEW LANDING FOR AEROSPACE Prime time for Notre Dame 
device to its radar tracking of space vehicles. And the Scandia Corjjora­tion is experimenting with the para­foil for use as a drag device on retiun­ing spacecraft. 
At the recent tests, which were later seen on the Huntley-Brinkley report, a professional parachutist demonstrat­ed the parafoil's accuracy. Bailing out at 4,500 feet over the stadium he glided to a gentle, one-foot landing dead center on the target area. It is such performance that leads Prof. Nicolaides to proclaim: "What we now have in the parafoil is a unique device — a kind of missing link in aerodynamics. The possibilities for its use are virtually endless." 
To prove his point. Dr. Nicolaides has himself taken to the air with the parafoil. Rigging the kite to a one-seater cart, the "Notre Dame Flyer," he can be seen on windy afternoons taking off and landing in his aero­nautical flivver. Looking ahead he predicts, "Someday the harried com­muter may go to his garage, take his parafoil car wings and fly to work." 
... certified by Waper 
The claim for "32 |jercent fewer cavities" may have to undergo sub­stantial revision in light of recent discoveries by Notre Dame micro­biologists. Dr. Morris Wagner, associ­ate professor and Lobund researcher, has successfully experimented on germfree rats wt h a decay-preventive vaccine. And the results of his work give promise of a multiple vaccine which would fortify humans against a number of decay-producing bacteria. 
The link between bacteria and tooth decay was uncovered by Dr. Wagner through extensive experimen­tation on rats which develop decay problems similar to those which afflict humans. Dr. Wagner fed identical diets, high in decay-producing carbo­hydrates, to both germfree rats and animals living under normal condi­tions. Only the normal rats developed decay evidencing the influence of bacterial factors. Additional support for the bacteria theory was deduced from experiments in which germfree animals were fed the same diet with the inclusion of a bacterial oi^nism. Decay occurred among these rats. 
The feasibility of effective vaccina­tion was demonstrated in experiments in which the rats were injected with a killed suspension of the same bacteria. Inoculated rats were found to be immune to decay which was virtually eliminated in the control group. Nonvaccinated animals, how­ever, continued to develop cavities. 
Scientists at research centers in the US and Sweden have identified well over 20 micro-organisms as resjxinsible agents for tooth decay. Dr. Wagner believes that this number can be classified according to a manageable number of strains which can then effectively be treated by a multiple vaccine. Although hojjeful of reduc­ing cavities through the vaccine. Dr. Wagner notes, "It is probable that no one procedure, such as a vaccine, vnll eradicate cavities from man." 
The next step in Wagner's research will be to study the individual bacteria known to be associated with tooth 

PARAFOIL JUMPER AND NOTRE DAME'S JOHN NICOLAIDES A happy commuter aboard his Irish UFO 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
decay with the aim of classifying them by type. He will then work on developing a mixed vaccine to protect against all the bacteria groups. 

DR. MORRIS WAGNER Work continues on a decay-preventative 

Inevitable Change? 
Latest participants in the controversy 
over the status of Catholic higher 
education are Dr. Herbert L. John­
ston, associate professor of philosophy, 
and Dr. Robert Hassenger, assistant 
professor of sociology and editor of 
a recently published book. The Shape 
of Catholic Higher Education. 
Prof. Johnston, addressing a meet­ing of die Catholic Commission on Intellectual and Cultural Affairs, struck a pessimistic note on the future of Catholic higher education. He ad­mitted that the end of this century would not see Catholic colleges and universities existing in their present form. 
The specialist in the philosophy of education cited steadily increasing costs, refusal of tax support, the pro­liferation of state universities and the drop in religious vocations as the primary forces necessitating the re­shaping of Catholic higher education. 

Dr. Hassenger's book, on the other hand, does not express a definite opinion but seeks to "gather what is presently available to provide sub­stance for the debate now raging with a rather poorly stocked arsenal." In essence, it is a compilation of the best research and critical essays covering the aims, achievements, and present and future status of Catholic colleges and universities. 
An historical review lays the groundwork for the five sections of this comprehensive treatment of Cath­olic higher education. Rev. Robert Weiss SJ analyzes Catholic colleges as social organizations with editor Hassenger concentrating on a study of 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
a Catholic women's college. The effects of Catholic higher education are dealt with in the third part which focuses on the impact on student values and attitudes and takes an in-depth look at Santa Clara Univer­sity. The tirnely topic of controversy on the Catholic campus is the sub­ject of the fourth part. 


STUDENT BQDY 
Of Mind and Soul 
The University has made another defi­nite commitment to the needs of the individual student with the establish­ment of a campus Psychological Ser­vice. Scheduled to begin operations this fall under the direction of Rev. Ralph Dunn CSC, a PhD in clinical psychology, the new program will fill a need for counselling not available through spiritual or vocational ad­visors. 
During its initial months of opera­tion. Psychological Service will be con­cerned wth outlining directions and procedures it will follow. One of ihe­first major problems will be to iriforni', students of its availability and to en--{ courage them to make use of; ite • 
. elected student body leaders to devote 

FATHER RALPH DUNN Begins psychological services 
Father Dunn foresees that a major­ity of the students %yill be recommend­ed to Psychological Service through the guidance department and rectors' and faculty advisors. However, he be­lieves that in the long run the success and direction of the new program will come from the use individual students make of it. "The kind of problems we'll treat depends largely on the indi­vidual students and might include someone who continually finds him­sef depressed or one who is haiinted by some kind of obsession or com­pulsion." 
Another area of concern for the 
fledglmg /program will be exploring the: imteptiJJ of its relationship with other/^tabUshed counselling agendas. on the: campus — the psychology de­p^jtmentyv.die guidance department and)'Jihe;-'ad\asor systems. Althou^ eager; :;tp:^d[e^eIop close and harmoni­oiKv^relafipiis, the new director does not; intend dhc/Psychological Service to beocnh;eV:niei:eIy a vocation problems burrau;7.-r':v. 
Locate^ pn^^'e third floor of the In­firmaryj the":niew Service will be asso­ciated: wthti^^^ needs of the studBOts and:;-1^1 offer the opportuni­ty forVclMe'. cooperation with Univer­sity iniedicgLl'officer. Dr. George Colip. Fathei-iDimnirwho receives his doctor­ate frpm^Lpypla'University of Chica­go in Jucne :andiihas had two years of experience .in held work with Loyola's Psychpl<^(aJ:.;S^rvice Center and the Veterans' 'iAdBguhistration Hospital, will be;.thie principal staff member of the SdSvice.:;;"/y 
Onc?.)the pilpt- program is in full opera^ojUj-Fathef Dunn hopes to se­cure the.servieiK of a social worker and a local psychiatrist, most likely a Spiith Bend dpdtpr. It is also expected ,that a majority^: of the cases will be treated oh campus, thus enabling a 
'student to. i:emain in a familiar en­
ryuonment-i .-V^ 


Student Ri^cture 
while the;oUniversity unvdled its major innpyations in governance this May,; .Studoit Government revealed 
' that it^;tpo^. had undergone a radical ijKtrueturing. ' ' Aeceding.Jto the increasing diversity of student-involvement. Student Gov­
' ammeht'^amiounced the formation of a "Studmt Union'' to assume manage­ment of alli. student-service functions.' The heW;!services branch will free 
full time ^: ;";to their representative duties. 
•The Uriipii, will fimction as an integrating agoit under the direction of a three-'inaiCNexecutive council. Its officers-^presideSt, vice-president and treasurer -.— -vvill; share their responsi­bilities with members of three com­missions: cppfdihating, social and ^eadeimc.: ^ •: 3^^-,^ 
The-Coordinating commission will take;:pn the job pf/bverseeing the work of sui^^/^pups ast the student organ­izatipns;^-r.cpmmi^w transportation, book :;Qcchaiige;,,Kand the student servicKcpinmissipn'which handles oi^ campusj^'mail,' ^tKe student directory andJ'VSuipus'Commercial concessions. 
Little :^admin^^ change is eyidenciEid .in theV^new social commis­sioii .which williijcbntinue to sponsor majpr campus-social activities. The 
usual events—concert series, football 
trip. Collegiate Jazz Festival, Mardi 
Gras and Homecoming—^will remain 
on the social calendar. However, con­
sideration now has been given to 
injecting something new into the 
social scene such as a spring carnival 
weekend complete with rides and 
sideshou's. 
Another aim of the new social 
commission \vdll be to draw Saint 
Mary's students into positions of 
responsibility for events in which the 
two student bodies have a mutual 
interest. There is no reason, members 
of the commission believe, that a girl 
cannot, for example, be placed in 
charge of the decorations committee 
for the Homecoming Dance. 
Greatest innovation and responsibil­ity focuses, perhaps, on the academic commission. Under the new Union plan, class academic commissions have relinguished their jurisdiction to the central commission. As sole coordinat­ing agent for all student-sponsored academic events, the commission vciW establish lecture and film series, co-ex discussions, library displays and other extracurricular academic activities such as the Mock Convention. 



ALUMNI 

The Added Dimension 

Coming from Maine and Miami, from San Diego and Portland, from ^ megalopolis and borough, nearly 100­Notre Dame graduates returned to, campus May 4-6 to accept appoint­ments to the recently organized; Alumni Senate. 
The occasion, marked by the first joint session of the Alumni Board and Senate, saw local Alumni Club presidents seated as charter members of the new Alumni governing body. A creation of the long-established na­tional Alumni Board, the Senate is, intended to broaden the channel of commimications from the University through the Board to the Alumni at large. 
The joint session was called to order in the Center for Continuing 
Education May 4 by Association 
President Ambrose F. Dudley Jr. The 
inaugural address was given by Dr. 
Thomas P. Carney, honorary presi­
dent of the Association and chief 
architect of the Senate. Dr. Carney 
cited the creation of the Senate 
as the beginning of a new era of 
Alumni awareness and involvement 
in the accomplishments and dreams 
of the University. 
On the second day of their meeting, the Board and Senate heard reports from University officials on progress, policies, and problems in major ad­ministrative and academic areas. These formal sessions were devoted to matters on admissions, continuing education, athletics, student affairs, religion and citizenship, academic affairs, and public relations and development. Considerable time also was allotted for discussion follo^ving each formal presentation. 
The Board ard Senate during the three-day meeting also heard from James Fish and Christopher Murphy, outgoing and incoming student body presidents, respectively, on the role and accomplishments of Student Government. Other guests included Professors James Robinson, Edward Vasta and John Houck who discussed the Faculty Manual. 
The joint meeting adjourned Satur­day-following a luncheon with special guMts Edmiind Stephan, newly ap­pointed Chainnan of ND's Board of Trustees, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, president and Rev. Edmund P.; Joyce CSC. Mr. Stephan and Father Hesburgh described the under­lying reasons for the revision in Uni­versity governance, as well as its potential for the future, and.vhailed the creation of the Alumni Seriate as a significant recognition of the Alumni role in the ongoing growth and development of Notre Dame. 
.Th e Senate's immediate future calk for.re^onal, meetings Avith membere of the Alumni Board in the fall in an effort to keep the newly established lines of communication open. 
Perhaps the purpose and potential of the Senate were best described by Dr. Carney at week's end when he alluded to the old concept of the imiversity constituency as being tri­angular in form, representing the student-faculty-administration rela­tionship. "The old form," said Dr. Carney, "has given way to a new design . . . the square, representing the student - faculty - administration-Alumni relationship. If you'll recall your geometry, the simple inclusion of an additional side doubles the effective area." 

Nothing Succeeds So Well... 
Closing the books on another success­
ful year, the Notre Dame Foundation 
issued its 1966 financial report. Al­
though the year saw no major cam­
paign drive in effect, a total of 
$10,180,547.82 in gifts and grants was 
contributed to the University. 
In releasing the financial report, James W. Frick, vice-president for public relations and development, noted this year's figure represented substantial increases in individual areas of giving and that, although the 1965 figure exceeds it by slightly more than $100,000, the 1966 goal was achieved without the benefit of a Ford Foundation matching grant. 
A comparison of this year's sta­tistics with those of 1965 shows that a record number of Alumni made a record contribution, and parent and non-alumni giving increased signifi­cantly. The resulting figures indicate that more than 17,000 individual con­tributions were made to the Uni­versity accounting for $5,472,370.06. 
In addition, Notre Dame scholars and researchers received support through government and corporation grants and fellowships amounting to $4.7 million. Various governmental agencies extended $4,514,841.26 for research in the physical and social sciences. Private and industrial cor­poration and foundation gifts totalling $33,531.39 and $39,690.76 respectively were received during 1966. 
The statistical highlights of the financial reports of 1965 and 1966 reveal a generally consistent growth pattern: 

DR.  THOS. CARNEY  NOTRE DAMES ALUMNI SENATE Doubling Effective Area  BUD DUDLEY  
12  ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE  

1966 HIGHLIGHTS OF ND FOUNDATION 
1965 
10,291,370.06 45.3% 11,799 1,437,341.69 101,207.15 130.40 5,133,656.97 2,253 
Grand Total Alumni Participation 

Number of Alumni Contributors Total Alumni Amount Honorary Alumni Average Alumnus Gift Non-Alumni Total Amount Number of Non-Alumni Gifts 
1966 1965 :i<v7 1966 Total Research Grantssand Fellowships 
10,180,547.82 3,619,164.25 i C 4,708,177.76 
Contributions FwniiParents 

51.0% 180,191.56 (NDF) -S (NDF) 269,116.10 243,174.76 (Alumni) X^^j (Alunmi) 242,248.46 13,727 Number of Parent Contributions 857 (NDF) ;:;.f (NDF) 1,311 2,165,699.78 683 (Alumni) ;.':•; '(•Alumni) 902 
Gifts of $1 fiOO^Oft'SHd Over 

624,961.00 575 ... ,:,-r? 529 
Total From Corporations :and Foundations 

203.30 4,620,791.07 jCi-1,613,390.20 
Number of CorporationsUnd Foundations 

2,681,709.28 659 ^ 925 
Ford Foundation 

3,310 2,812,256.84 ;5C. -0 ­




Topside Briefs — 
In Defense of Religious Freedom 

Acting on the University's concept of service to the community. Prof. Edward J. Murphy of the Law School has joined the National Committee for Amish Religious Freedom as a legal advisor. One of four Catholics serving in such a post, Prof. Murphy will aid in preparing the appeal of Mr. Leroy Garber before the US Supreme Court. The Amish farmer has been indicted by the Kansas courts for failure to send his daughter to the public schools. He objects on the grounds of his religious beliefs to the schools' "worldly atmosphere." The appeal will contest the Kansas Supreme Court ruling that the Constitution protects religious belief absolutely but religious practice as only a limited right. 
Continue Research on Parochial Education 
Notre Dame's continued interest in the future of US parochial education was again evidenced with the creation of a new interdisciplinary Program for Re­search in Catholic Education. The new program will not only carry on the work begun during the three-year Carnegie-supported study of elementary and sec­ondary schools, but wU also seek to establish avenues of cooperation bet\veen national educational organiza­tions and the different levels of Catholic education. In addition, the program will implement research in related fields of study in an effort to provide coordinated educational planning. Reginald A. Neuwien, who directed the Notre Dame-Carnegie study, and Rev. Neil J. McCluskey SJ, visiting professor of education, will co-chair an interdisciplinary faculty committee which wU establish guidelines for the program. 
New Policy Governs Appearance of Guest Speakers 
At a time when cries for academic freedom and student rights resound loudest, the University issued a precedent-setting policy governing the appearance of guest speakers on the campus. Made public recently by Rev. Charles McCarragher CSC, vice-president for student affairs, the statement eliminates arbitrary administration decision on a lecturer's right to speak at the University. Yet, at the same time, it does not extend free license. The policy, first of its kind ever to be promulgated at Notre Dame, welcomes anyone to speak who would "be con­tributing to the academic side of the University." Al­though a speaker's ideology per se will not affect his right to speak, the subject matter must have academic value and the speaker able to intelligently express his 
A Protesting Low School 
Addressing a Law School hpntirs dinner, retiring Dean Joseph O'Meara chc^e-the occasion to level criticism at civil rights leaders .who' Imye integrated their anti-Vietnam war views with thdr work in the civil rights movement. AcknowI«lging itjie sincerity of some war objectors. Dean O'Meara accused the majority of being either Communists, traitors:ior cowards. Referring to the civil rights, .movement he singled out the actions of Martin Luther King ^c l Stokley Carmichael as being in violation of federal;: statutes imder the First Amendment. "Such persons aire doing irreparable harm to the cause of civil rights by seeking to link the civil rights movement with theiriown criminal attempts to persuade young men to ayjpid military service." In rebuttal, five Law School faculty members. Rev. Wil­liam C. Lewers CSC, Thc^as L. Shaffer, Thomas F. Broden, Bernard J. Ward S'and Robert E. Rodes Jr., issued a statement vindicating King, expressing opinion on the legality of his and.-, Carmichael's speeches and noting that the Dean's remarks were not representative of either the Law School or its faculty. 

Feinberg and Gireux to Libnny Council 
The growing resources ahd'^influence of the Memorial Library have prompted the) .appointment of two new members to the Library Council. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, president ofi'the University, annoimced that Charles E. Feinberg andrRobert Giroux will join the 15-member Council. A. Retired oil company ex­ecutive and avid book collieetoTi^Mr. Feinberg's personal library boasts one of the la^S t treasuries of Walt Whitman materials. -. Mr. Grifoux, active in the pub­lishing business for thevp^t ,30^ years, is vice-president and editor-in-chief of FarfM-,-Straus and Giroux, Inc. 


Summer Institutes for Philosophy Teadicfs 
Catholic philosophy teachers will, be given the oppor­tunity to extend their educational horizons as a r^ult of a recent Carnegie Corporation grant to the University. The $120,000 will be used to establish institutes dming 
;the summers of 1968 and 1969 on contemporary Amer­ican philosophy for faculty at Catholic institutions of higher learning. Notre Dame faculty members will form the basic teaching staff, ^though visiting faculty from other universities will 'fe invited to conduct lectures, seminars and infoin^' dliscussions. The first institute will concentrate onfthones in recent Anglo-American linguistic philosophy'while study in the phi­losophy of religion is propi^i^.in 1%9. 

ALUMNUS MAY W67 JUNE 
Enqfclepedia Enlists ND Philosophers '; Joining scholars from around the world, three Notre Dame faculty members have contributed major articles to the first philosophical encyclopedia ever published in English. Described as the most comprehensive philo­sophical reference ever published, the Encyclopedia of Philosophy lists among its contributors Dr. A. Robert CapKsnigri, Dr. Joseph \V. Evans PhD '57 and Rev. Ivo Thomas OP. Caponigri, professor of philosophy, served on the new reference work's editorial board in addition to writing articles on several 19th- and 20th-century Italian religious philosophers. Associate professor of phi­losophy Dr. Joseph Evans authored the entry on Jacques Maritain. Dr. Evans directs the University's Maritain Center. Father Thomas, who is presently visiting pro­fessor in the General Program, contributed a section on the history of logic. 


The Talk of the Hive 
"I talk to the bees" is the claim of Dr. Harald Esch, associate professor of biologj'. A specialist in the com­munication habits of bees, his most recent research has uncovered the fact that bees are multilingual. Using a dummy bee as a research assistant. Dr. Esch put him through the intricate maneuvers of the "wagging" dance common to the honey bee. The imposter drew no re­sponse, confirming the belief that bees communicate not only through kinetics, but also employ phonetics. The German-born and -educated biologist has also accumu­lated evidence that bee language evolved and he now intends further research to trace the developmental pattern. 
Latest Educational Concept 
The University traditionally acknowledges four under­graduate Colleges and the Graduate School. This past semester, however, a fifth college was matriculated. Be­gun in February tiirough the joint efforts of Dr. Robert Hassenger '59, assistant professor of sociology, and the Student Government's Academic Commission, the "Free University" launched a long-considered i_dea, that of student autonomy in the organization and administra­tion of their curriculum. The nine, t\vo-hpur seminars on "The American Student" were structured so as to provide students vAxh. the greatest opportunity to shape the course of the sjonposium through their direction of the extended, free-discussion periods which followed the formal presentation of subject matter. 

"Sd-po '74" 
AH the excitement of a world's fair will come to Notre Dame, in a manner of speaking, \yith the staging of the 25th International Science Fair in 1974;. The fair's Science Service Council accepted the joint Notre Dame-South Bend invitation extending the new Athletic and Convocation Center as the site for the worldwide high school competition. This marks the first time a city the size of South Bend was chosen to host the final judging on winners from over 200 regional science fairs. The University is co-sponsor of the Northern Indiana Science Fair held annually in Stepan Center. 

Summer Internships 
Closer cooperation bet%veen Notre Dame and South Bend is once more evidenced in the joint efforts of the University and local industrial leaders in extending last year's pilot program in summer job placement Officials at Bendix and Uniroyal are helping the Student Gov­ernment's ND-South Bend Relations Committee to co­ordinate this year's efforts which hope to place 25 stu­dents in temporary jobs. Supervisory and staff work and positions requiring special skills will be open to qualified juniors and seniors. One of the aims of the summer intern program is to encourage students to remain in the South Bend area after graduation. 
Men of Rank 
Special recognition was given members of Notre Dame's faculty at the President's Dinner, May 8, when Rev.' Theodore M. Hesbiu-gh CSC announced professorial promotions and honors. Elevated to the rank of professor emeritus was retiring econoniist Rev. John 
C. Blonmiestein OSC. Cited for 25 years of con­secutive teaching at Notre Dame were Gilfred A. Burdick, Francis R. Max\vell and Arthur J. Quigley. Thirteen faculty members advanced to full professor­ships while 18 were named associate professors and nine were ranked as assistant professors. (The entire list of promotions can be found in the "Compendium" section of the ALUMNUS, inside front cover.) 


He's Number One 
Proving to be number one off the field as well as on, Football Captain Jim Lynch was named "Athlete of the Year" by students in the Scholastic poll. In the third annual balloting the senior linebacker outpolled teammate Nick Eddy, junior trackman Pete Farrell and hockey ace Pete Lamantia. Accepting the honor, the top athlete said: "Receiving the Athlete of the Year trophy affected me in the same way that my selection as captain did. It really means more than the Maxwell Trophy because it comes from some people whose opinion I truly respect—the Notre Dame student body." 

O'Shaughnessy Named a Papal Count 
In recognition of his support of the new Ecumenical Institute for Advanced Theological Studies in Jerusalem, Pope Paul VT named University Trustee I. A. O'Shaughnessy a Papal Count. The president of Globe Oil and Refining Company of Saint Paul, long a bene­factor of higher education, has served Notre Dame as a Trustee since 1944. Donor of O'Shaughnessy Hall of Fine Arts and substantial contributor to the Memorial Library, he was named an honorary doctor of the Uni­versity in 1946: Chosen as the Laetare Medal recipient in 1953 as the outstanding US Catholic layman, Mr. O'Shaughnessy has also been honored as a Papal Chamberlain of Sword and Cape; Knight of the Holy Sepulchre; Knight of Malta; &iight Commander; and Knight of St Gregory. 


Ruling Their Own House 
The division of powers is finding increasing expression at Notre Dame. Eager to assume its share of the load, the Student Senate has reactivated the House Committee to govern the operation of the Student Center. The Committee, which was founded two years ago, but did not operate during the current academic year, will exercise, authority in establishing hours and determining the usesVof the Center. Members of the House Com­mittee will include a student senator, student affairs co­ordinator, student body VP, the vice-president for student afiairs and the current supervisor of the Center. 
Catholic Sdwels: To Be Or Not To Be Dr. James .Michael Lee's controversial section on Amer­ican CathoUc education in the book Catholic Education in the Western.; World has engendered a wdespread feedback. In evisiluatibn of the elementary and secondary Catholic schools. Dr. Lee promoted the abolition of elementary schools in favor of the establishment of nursery schools. His proposal was based on the apparent lack of effectiveness of the present school systems. One of the most emphatic reactions was issued by the St Louis archdiocesan school board which sent a letter to all area priests disputing Dr. Lee's conclusions. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
1 ^^iiSsKS^' 
mi 

Academic freedom in all its forms has come under extensive fire in re­cent years. From Berkeley to St. John's the issue has drawn nation-wide at­tention. Most recently, the spotlight fell on Catholic Uriiv^fsity where a priest faculty member one moment was ousted for his\lijb^x^>^fW0^^tiP^^ next moment reinstated because of:hu:nght^foenj^ Today, most alumni accept the fact that the univeT0y—^mtife so thanj^iieir:^^i^^:^^^^ldbe a community of free 
*:;iiiiipli^^e dom 
scholarly inquiry. Bjut. nipre thPn thpt, alumni aljiomj^ kit4w;^k0.^^J.erns inherent in the issue of acqdefpic ffegdpm arid undpYstand their fa.nttj^0tiofj^2^;A^:;ii^^ critically, they must 
• '--^see hpiv ih^  feature of the  
ALUMNiuSi jfKf prominent figures frpinithpjpqil^^!0^0^ ^nt!e  have raised their  
vdicesindidipgiiPphih^^^  they de­ 
dm^ihe^saciidemK^  
.  :Ufp;rd *^university/'^ut  at bi!^,1(lv^^pr^^:00e0j^M,  the reaUza­ 
tipnr^ofr^ihisjtpe^^  


all encompassing 

EDWARD MANIER and JOHN HOUCK 

dimensions 

pARL Y in this century, the " aims and institutional prac­tices of Catholic colleges and universities reflected a protection­ist design. They were intent upon guarding a student's faith against a "hostile" culture. At the same time there was little or no em­phasis upon original research by the faculty. 
At a later, better time, these colleges, some of which were be­ginning to merit the title "univer­sity," accepted a more demand­ing challenge. Therein developed the creative synthesis of Cath­olic or Christian wisdom with the best secular thought, e.g.. Christian personalism or the so­cial gospel with the theory and practice of.•democracy, or with Keynesiah economics. As a re­sult, increased emphasis was placed upon original inquiry, re> search, and experimentation in the humanities as well as in the sciences, although the latter fre­quently led the way. 
By 1958,-laymen constituted over 80 percent of the faculties of six medium to large-size Catholic institutions. And, now, the proportioii of faculty trained in the couritry's best graduate schools is increasing every year. In most disciplines, al­though there are a few excep­tions, research simply follows the best secular models, with little or no direct consideration of its relation; to religion. 
It is in this context that Cath­olic colleges and universities are facingrthe ?tasks of expanding and democratizing their govern­ing boards; of increasing the role of faculty in university govern­ment; of- making explicit guaran­tees of academic due process for faculty and students; of respond­ing to the call for greater student freedom and student participa­tion in decision-making; of more clearly defining their role as church-related institutions; and of continuing to improve their academic quality. The problem of academic freedom is bound up with every one of these issues, and the prospects for the mean­ingful extension of this freedom in Catholic higher education have rarely seemed brighter, in spite of some threatening clouds on the horizon. 
THE growth of academic free­dom depends upon a clear grasp the meaning of the term, its foundations and its practical extensions, as much or more than it depends upon the practical skill, energy, and good will of the administrators, faculty and students involved. In the past. Catholic authors dealing with this subject have elaborated a concept significantly at variance with that in common use in sec­ular institutions. Where A. O. Lovejoy, the Johns Hopkins phi­losopher and historian, held that the academic freedom to investi­gate, publish, and teach is limited only by standards of competence and professional ethics, Catholic authors have implied that this freedom may also be limited by an institutional commitment to the magisterium of the Church, i.e., by specific doctrinal tests. Lovejoy also held that college and university students have a right to be presented with the evidence for the major alterna­tives in any controverted field of inquiry. But some Catholics have argued that a student's "loss of faith" is too great a price to pay 
EDWARD MAXIER '53, an assistant pro­jessoT of philosophy at Notre Dame and recipient of a PhD from St. Louis Uni­versity, has written for the Philosophy of Science, The Modem Schoolman and other journals. 
for such academic sophistication. Finally, such organizations as the American Association of Uni­versity Professors have insisted that faculty members have the protection of academic due pro­cess, the right to appeal to the professional judgment of their peers in any contested case. But some Catholic universities have invoked administrative or eccle­siastical authority — from which they have granted no ap­I)eal — in order to maintain doctrinal purity. 
While most administrators of Catholic colleges and universities have had the wisdom to avoid the application of such repressive principles, the body of theory has been there. It has seriously confused debate because it is sometimes advanced as the "proper" meaning of academic freedom. It has been argued that Catholic institutions must be free to present Catholic doctrine and philosophy to their students, and to protect them from erroneous views. 
This represents a grave mis­understanding of the meaning of academic freedom. It is in fact a defense of the freedom of asso­ciation of Catholics and other religious groups, and it has littie or nothing to do with academic freedom. 
Academic freedom is the free­dom of debate, inquiry, and con­troversy; it is not the freedom to preach or indoctrinate. Academic freedom is limited by a profes­sional ethic which specifically re­quires that the teacher respect li e student's independence of judgment This does not mean that academic freedom can only be rooted in uncommitted skep­ticism. But it does imply that the operative commitment which underlies true scholarship and teaching can never be an uncrit­

ical or inflexible commitment to a specific thesis or theory. It is best described as commitment to the meaningfulness of an area of inquiry; a commitment to search and investigate. Some sector of a church-related university will be committed to probe the intelligi­bility of man's encounter with God. 
I 
T follows from this view of the commitment which underlies scholarship that the faculty of a Catholic university cannot be asked to function as an instru­ment of the magisterium or teaching authority of the Church, a mission properly exercised by those who preach and administer the sacraments. A Catholic uni­versity can only represent the Church learning and not the Church teaching. The learning of the Church must respect all the laws of learning. It will grow only through the critical, open examination of opposed ideas. It will grow insofar as the "opposi­tion" is allowed to speak for it­self in every area of inquiry, including the religious. 
Priest-scholars have the deli­cate task of balancing these mis­sions of learning and preaching. The balance can be achieved only if they are given the full profes­sional autonomy accorded their lay colleagues. The credibility and integrity of priestly scholarship depend upon the clear and un­equivocal rejection of the old theory of ecclesiastical censor­ship of scholarly documents, and upon an equally forthright ac­ceptance of the indiAndual's voca­tion to teaching and research as a limit on the demands of priest-
JoHN W. HoucK '54, associate profes~ sor of business organization and man­agement, is president of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Asso­ciation of University Professors. 
ly obedience to a religious su­perior. 
The campus or parietal rules enforced upon students on many Catholic campuses continue to echo religious and pedagogical theories from the nineteenth cen­tury. Rules govenung hours, dress, and drinking, as well as political activity, public assembly, and the student press cannot flatmt or demean the intellectual and emotional maturity demanded of the student in the classroom and loudly proclaimed at commence­ment. Students must be given a role in university government proportionate to their interests and capacities; in particular, they should have a basic voice in rules governing their own behawor. The plurality of student sub­cultures or cultural streaks is ex­tremely important to the balance and total impact of higher educa­tion. Catholic campuses benefit from the incorporation of a vari­ety of economic, ethnic, and reli­gious cultures in their student bodies, and should seek to pro­mote this pluralism. 
C
AN there be academic freedom in a church-related college or university? Our answer is "yes." The further realization of this pnassibility depends on a careful understanding of religious com­mitment as demanding — not the continual reformulation of a pre­determined "truth" but — free and open inquiry in all areas of scholarship. Likewise, it depends upon the willingness of the ad­ministrators of the best Catholic colleges and universities to dis­sociate these institutions from the task of representing the teaching authority of the Church, for the sake of making a real contribu­tion to the leamedness of the Church. • 
-m 
' 
r \ ^ac/ a•dcm ic Free dom 
V ) 
J. PHILIP GLEASON 

historically documented 

T
HE development of academic 
freedom in the Uiiiited States 
cannot be adequately imderstood 
apart from the historical context 
in which it evolved. The same 
is true of academic freedom in 
Catholic higher education. But 
in the case of the latter we are 
gravely handicapped by the lack 
of historical literature on Catho­
lic higher education, and nowhere 
is the want more grievously felt 
than in respect to the twentieth-
century evolution of the colleges 
and universities. Therefore, what 
follows has assumed the form of 
a series of broad generalizations. 
For the sake of convenience, I 
have grouped them under the 
headings of social changes, insti­
tutional changes, and intellectual 
changes. 
SOCIAL Changes. The social changes that bear on Cath­olic higher education and aca­demic freedom are well known in broad outline, and may be summed up in the cliche "emer­gence from the ghetto." Al­though we really know far less about this process than the pop­ularity of the expression would suggest, it will suffice merely to mention two aspects of the phenomenon. The first is the cultural assimi­lation of the Catholic immigrant-derived population and the in­creasingly friendly disposition manifested toward the Church by American society. This combina­tion of CathoUc acculturation and declining external hostility has reduced the need for a de­fensive and apologetical orienta­tion at all levels of Catholic ed­ucation. As the barriers of sus­picion and ill will are removed, the pressure to close ranks in a rigidly defensive posture dimin­ishes. The horizons of Catholic education are correspondingly en­larged, and the demand for greater freedom to launch out in new directions is a natural con­sequence. The second aspect of the emer­gence from the ghetto — im­provement in the social and economic status of American Catholics—^is also a phase of the assimilation of an immigrant people and it, too, is relevant to our subject. Historically, one of the strongest pressures shaping 
the development of the Catholic college has been the need to modify its offerings and approach in order to meet the changing needs of a clientele intent on improving its status. Catholic schools, in other words, have been required to adjust themselves to demands coming from the stu­dents and general Catholic popu­lation who have transmitted the tendencies and movements of the society in which they dwell. Today, more than at any earlier time, the Catholic population resembles the general American population in terms of wealth, social status, educational back­ground, and acceptance of the prevailing democratic and anti-authoritarian spirit. Hence the demand that is transmitted is for a college education character­
ized by the qualities associated with the very finest institutions of American higher learning. Among these qualities, academic freedom is conspicuous. 
INSTITUTIONAL Changes. Another important social change, and one that leads us into the area of institutional change, is the tremendous ex­pansion of higher education since 1900. From being the privilege of the few, college has become the normal expectation of the. many. Although ever-increasing num­bers of Catholic students have flocked to secular institutions. Catholic college enrollments re­flect the enormous national growth. Expansion of such staggering dimensions in so short a time inevitably has entailed far-reach­ing changes in the nature and functioning of Catholic colleges. The most obvious of these changes, and one of the most important, is that the faculties of Catholic colleges and imiversities have been largely laicized. The manp>ower of the religious com­mimities that ran the colleges was nowhere near sufficient to meet the rising demand for higher education, and laymen had to be brought into the work of college teaching which had been almost exclusively reserved for religious in the 19th century. By 1958, la3mien constituted over eighty percent of the facul­ties of a fairly representative sam­ple of six medium- to large-size Catholic institutions. No doubt the great majority of these lay professors had expierience in non-Catholic universities somewhere along the line, and many of them received their graduate training in leading secular institutions. In view of these circumstances, it is quite imderstandable that we are 

witnessing mounting demands that laymen be granted a large role in academic policy-making, and that these demands are attended by agitation of the question of academic freedom. 
A related institutional change, but one that is far less widely ap­preciated, concerns the very re­cent assumption of what may be called true university character by Catholic schools. A true uni­versity as it is understood in this country is an institution of higher learning in which the dominant tone and spirit are set by a graduate school dedicated to re­search. Graduate education—and true graduate education is mea­sured by the production of PhD's —^is a relatively new phenomenon in American higher education. It dates back only to the closing decades of the 19th century. But in Catholic schools, regardless of whether they called themselves universities or not, it is hardly older than yesterday. Except for the Catholic University of Amer­ica, which was designed from its inception in 1889 for research and scholarship, the emphasis on graduate education at the doc­toral level—and hence on true university work as it is conceived in this century—^is essentially a post-World War II phenomenon, and even the beginnings of it go back no further than about 1930. 
INTELLECTUAL changes. 
• Consideration of the transition to true university work brings us into the realm of intellectual changes, for emphasis on grad­uate work has meant more than institutional modifications. It has also involved a reorientation of Catholic pedagogical thinking, a shift in the ruling ideas of Catholic educators. It is true, of course, that Vatican II and the spirit of aggiornatnento have had a powerful impact on all Amer­ican Catholics who are intellec­tually alert, and, one may hope, that includes academic men and women as a group. Nonetheless, I think that the Council is the catalyst rather than the cause of the intellectual ferment so characteristic of the Catholic academic scene today. That might be debated. What is certain is that intellectual changes inde­pendently under way in Catholic higher education prepared fertile soil in which the new ideas and spirit of post-Johannine Cathol­icism could flourish. To vmder­stand these changes we must go 
J. PHILIP GLEASOX, PhD '60 is an as­sistant professor of history at Notre Dame and frequent contributor to Catholic magazines and scholarly journals. 
back to the turn of the century and look briefly at the kind of Catholic colleges that existed then, and at the thinking of CathoUc educators. 
It was about 1900 that the revolution in American higher education began to make itself widely felt in the Catholic col­leges. The revolution itself had many causes and ramifications. Perhaps its most salient features were the vast increase in enroll­ments that followed from the widespread introduction of free pubUc secondary education; in­creasing specialization and the fragmentation of knowledge that marked the breakdown of the old prescribed classical cur­riculum; and the growing domi­nance of the secular temper that accompanied th e tmiversity movement with its emphasis on Germanic Wissenschaft and which led to the displacement of clergymen from positions of leadership in American higher education. This revolution, which George W. Pierson has described as "one of the greatest distur­bances that the world of higher education has ever known," con­fronted Catholic colleges with a life or death challenge. It also stimulated the beginnings of the 20th-century modernization of the American Catholic higher ed­ucation. 
The key fact is that when this university revolution got under way, Catholic institutions were not yet even providing collegiate instruction as it was commonly understood in American educa­tion. I have already mentioned that as late as 1916, half the students in Catholic colleges were really pursuing high school studies. This did not reflect merely the inferiority of Catholic schools—although it seems likely that they were inferior by Amer­ican standards for competence, to say nothing of excellence. But it also reflected the variant insti­tutional pattern which the Cath­oUc colleges had inherited from the European past. The standard American college was based on the English model, and was con­ceived as a four-year institution which accepted students who had already completed their second­ary preparation. The 19th-cen­tury Catholic college, on the other hand, was patterned after the continental model, and com­bined in the same institution a program of six or seven years' duration embracing both the sec­ondary and lower collegiate levels of study. In other words, the Catholic college was directly derived from the same institu­tional source as the German 
Gymnapum, the French tycee, 
or the English public school and 
was stni^y^oomparable to these 
Europeima:>»^xniidary schools. 
It was icniyi^by a slow process of evolutiira'ltiiat the Catholic college ^hrouy^t itself into line with the^: iniMin^ institutional patteni of}>ASierican collegiate educatira:'-The>separation of the high school fioialthe college and the standardization of the under­graduate prp^am along Ameri­can lines were hbt fully completed for most of them, until the years 1900 to 1920. In a number of schools tiie reorientation of the undergraduate "program over­lapped the beginnings of the ex­pansion upward V into graduate work. Moreover, this funda­mental reorganization took place against fbe chaotic background of electivism,;' vck^tionalism and professionalization: in hi^er ed­ucation and all :of these move­ments made themselves felt in CathoUc schools;' 
What we have, seen, then, in the 20th; century, is a profoimd shift (which is still going on) in the Idhds of acti\nty that actu­ally, take place in CathoUc col-lieges and univi^ties. It is hardly necessary to add that these shifts :: have inevitably brought in their: wake equally profound changes in the way CathoUc educators conceived their task and, justified their activities to themsielves and to the world at large; 
The educatictiial ideal of the older CathoUc coUeges was em­inently fitted to the essentially secondary and lower collegiate work they Were actually doing. It was inspired by the educa­tional thought of the Renaissance (mainly through the Jesuit tra­dition), and represented in the minds of CathoUc college men a synthesis of classical humanism, sovmd philosophy and the true reUgion. Its aim-was not to train speciaUsts or scholars, or to pre­pare students for-jpractical voca­tions in life. Rather it aimed to turn out Uberally educated men. Men who were possessed of a uni­fied grasp of reaUty; fortified by a disciplined abiUty to analyze ideas and express their thoughts with clarity and force; and ani­mated by an ehnobling set of hu­manistic values - that 'accorded harmoniously with thor reU­gious faith. ^;' *•& 
NO doubt the id^al wals seldom fully reaUzedm/practice — few ideals are. But tiifat is not the point. The pcnnt is that as Cath­oUc institutions changed under the necessity of keeping pace, at least in a laggardly way, with the 

fantastically rapid developments in American higher education, the ideal itself became in a sense out­moded and irrelevant. It was by no;means a contemptible ideal; nor has it been wholly forgotten, and I do not think it ever will be because of the genuine values it enibodies. But with the passage of time, the ideal conformed less and less to what the Catholic col­lie s were actually doing. And for :i those who were trying to bring themselves up to the best standards of American universi­tiest; the old theory was very littife help or even a positive handicap. 
The basic weakness of the tra­ditional pedagogical ideal was that; it made no provision for Wissenschaft. for scholarship, for research. The whole thrust of the old system was toward introduc­ing to; students, and inculcating in them a previously arrived at synthesis of secular knowledge, intellectual skills, ethical values and religious truth. Free investi­gation -or independent research played virtually no role in this process.^By the same token, aca­demic freedom was a very negli­gible concern because it was not thought that either students or professors needed it in order to realize the ends of collegiate edu­cation. 
But to repeat once more. Cath­olic universities have determined in the last 30 years or so to be­come real universities on the model of Harvard and Berkeley. The effort required a tremendous new emphasis upon research, and has been accompanied by mounting criticism of the failures of Catholic scholarship. But one of the results of the very real gains that have been made has been to destroy much of the va­lidity and attractiveness of the old pedagogical theory and, in­deed, to undermine the intellec­tual-religious synthesi s upon which it rested. For the under­lying premise of the old synthe­sis, and of the traditional theory of collegiafe, education was, to put it vei^ crudely, that the Catholic Giiurch already had the truth — that we already knew all the answers to the questions that reallj^;, matter. The whole ethos of the. modem university, and the inherent dynamism of the spirit of critical scholarship, are fimdarnentally antipathetical to such aniattitude. And the fact that the old-attitude, or Catholic Weltanschauung, finds few de­fenders today is not merely the result of Vatican II; rather it reflects the radical changes of the last generation in American Catholic higher education. • 
ACADEMIC freedom is an es­sential element of a society which is committed to freedom. It is unthinkable that the Amer­ican society could be character­ized as enjoying freedom if our scholars and students were not free in the pursuit of knowledge, understanding and the truth. Equally, it is inconceivable that in a closed system like that of the Soviet Union there could be even a pretense of academic freedom in the institutions of higher learning, although in spe­cialized technical fields where ideological issues are not involved scholars and researchers may not only be free, but also encouraged to get on with their work. Thus, academic freedom in the United States is an aspect of the whole commitment to freedom which characterizes what we call the American way of life. This basic point stands out in all of the important documents of our leading association of uni­versity and college teachers, the American Association of Univer­sity Professors (AAUP). In its 1940 Statement of Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure, which is its basic charter, and which was negotiated with the Association of American Colleges and has been endorsed by many important learned societies, the p)oint imder discussion was stated very clearly. The preamble of the 1940 Statement declares: "In­stitutions of higher education are conducted for the common good and not to further the interest of either the individual teacher or the institution as a whole. The common good depends upon the free search for truth and its free exposition." The preamble then goes on to declare that "academic freedom is essential to these 
purposes and applies to both teaching and research. Freedom in research is fundamental to the advancement of truth. Academic freedom in its teaching aspect is fundamental for the protection of the rights of the teacher in teach­ing and of the student to freedom in learning." 
The AAUP is firmly committed to the proposition that academic freedom is as much a property of the student as it is of the professor. We claim academic freedom for the whole academic community, and the academic community consists essentially of teachers who give instruction and students who seek to learn. Thus, in the recently adopted state­ment of the AAUP on the aca­demic freedom of students, it is declared: "Free inquiry and free expression are essential attributes of the community of scholars. As members of that community, students should be encouraged to develop the capacity for critical judgment and to engage in a sustained and independent search for truth. The freedom to learn depends upon appropriate op­portunities and conditions in the classroom, on the campus, and in the larger community. The re­sponsibiUty to secure and to respect general conditions con­ducive to the freedom to learn is shared by all members of the academic community. Students should endeavor to exercise their freedom with maturity and re­sponsibility." 
THE concept of academic freedom for college and uni­versity professors includes, neces­sarily, the right of meaningful participation in the life of the institution. That is why the right 
to participate in college and uni­versity government looms ever larger in the thinking of Amer­ican teachers today. Thus, the statement of principles on faculty government recently adopted by the Association declares: "The basic functions of a college or university are to augment, pre­serve, criticize, and transmit knowledge and to foster creative capacities. These functions are performed by a community of scholars who must be free to ex­ercise independent judgment in the planning and execution of their educational responsibilities. The organization of an institution of higher education should be designed to allow it to select and carry out its responsibilities with maximum effectiveness and in­tegrity. The ultimate standard for judging patterns for college and university government is suc­cess in serving the purposes for which institutions of higher ed­ucation exist." 
Through the instrumentality of the AAUP, the teaching profes­sion in higher education has worked out a basic position on the requirements of academic freedom. An essential element of that freedom is the concept of tenure, and this concept may be described in a few simple terms. 
After a teacher has served in an institution for a probationary period — and AAUP holds that seven years constitutes the outside limit of that period—then the appointee is entitled to tenure, if the institution decides to keep 
DAVID FELLMAN, Vilas Professor of political science at the V. of Wiscon­sin, is a former president of the AAUP. A Yale PhD graduate. Prof. Fellman is the author of eight books and has pub­lished extensively in scholarly journals. 



national 
DAVID FELLMAN 


commitment 
him any longer. Once given tenure, he is entitled to the secu­rity of permanent appointment This does not mean that a tenured professor can never be dismissed, but it does mean that dismissal can be accomplished only for adequate cause, and only if adequate cause is established through procedures which have come to be known as academic due process. 
As a bare minimum, in this context, due process includes explicit notice of charges and a fair hearing before an indepen­dent faculty committee. The concept of tenure, however, in­cludes something more; it means that once a professor has been given tenure, the burden of prov­ing that he is unlit to remain in his post rests upon those who bring charges against him. The acquisition of tenure is in itself recognition of a professor's pro­fessional competence, and he carries with him a presumption of competence unless and imtil the administration has come forward and carried the burden of proving otherwise. 
On the other hand, one who is on a probationary appointment does not carry with him any presumption of competence. In­deed, the purpose of the proba­tionary period is to permit the institution to discover whether the individual is competent. Thus, one who is on probationary status may have his appointment terminated without any cause being assigned at aU. 
Nevertheless, the Association has always taken the position that, hke tenured professors, non­tenured teachers are equally entitled to academic freedom. It follows that it is wholly im­proper for an institution to deny or to violate the academic free­dom of a nontenured teacher. In his case, however, if termina­tion of appointment is sought, the burden of prowig that such termination is the result of a violation of.; academic freedom shifts to tiie individual concerned, since he does not carry with him the presumption : of competence which a tenured professor enjoys. 
I SHOULD like to stress that it 
• is clear to all of us in the Association that academic free­dom is not the special property of tenured professors. It is an essential quality for education, and should be enjoyed by all members of the educational com­munity, students and nontenured teachers as well as tenured pro­fessors. 
The commitment to academic freedom has never been the ex­pression of the self-serving needs of a professional caste. The fundamental case for academic freedom has always been that it is in the public interest. Society relies upon our institutions of higher learning as the principal means of acquiring; new knowl­edge and new techniques, and of conveying the fruits of past and present learning to. the com­munity and to futiire generations. Without freedom to criticize and explore ideas and to advocate solutions to human problems, neither professors nor students can perform their work, or in­deed, maintain their self-respect. Thus wie do not claim academic freedom for our own benefit, though obviously we enjoy hav­ing it. The ultimate purpose of acadeinic freedom, rather, lies in the promotion of tiie general welfare. • 
•^:ti-

REV. JOHN 
N
r 
/
aca demic free dom 
V 

J 
22 

a polemic for 

 E. WALSH CSC 

Catholic universities? 

THE right to teach, which is the fundamental meanii^ of aca­demic freedom, means exactly the same in a Catholic university as it means in any umversity. It is a right or privilege won by advanced learning and by recog­nized proficiency in the selection, organization, and communication to students of knowledge, meth­ods, attitudes, and ideals. However, it is a very serious mistake to speak of the Catholic university as part of the teaching function of the Roman Catholic Church or even its teaching apos­tolate. This position, I feel, has had many strange and, at least in some instances, disastrous con­sequences. (I should hasten to add that this interpretation is by no means an "official" poa­tion although it is an extremely common one.) The great diver­sity of types of Catholic colleges and universities makes it clear that there is no monolithic system of Catholic higher education and no one and only set of relation­ships between the Church and the university. Those univer­sities, for example, that are called "pontifical universities" would have certain operating principles that do not apply at all to other Catholic universities. So far as I have been able to determine, the Church has never defined her relationship with the Catholic university. To think of the Catholic uni­versity as an instrument of the Church for the carrying out of its teaching mission leads, I think, both to serious misimder­standii^s of the Church's teach­ing mission in itself and to pro­found distortions of the nature of a university. This is not to say, of course, that the Church does not have a valid and, as Catholics tmderstand it, God-given teaching mission. The Church has a direct mandate to teach and to baptize. But the trouble arises when, for what­ever reason, the Catholic uniVer­sity is regarded as an institution whose primary responsibility is to teach a given set of doctrines, values, or attitudes, i.e., to pass 
down or to hand out the teach­ings of the Church. It appears to me that the generic relation­ship between the Church and the Catholic university can best be described by saying that the Catholic university is one of the manifestations — perhaps the highest formal, explicit, and systematic manifestation—of the Church learning. 
WITH what learning then should the Catholic university be concerned? The Catholic uni­versity must be genuinely de­voted to the whole spectrum of human learning and knowing, i.e., the arts, the sciences, the humanities, and even the tech­nologies insofar as they contain principles and theories to be understood rather than tech­niques to be mastered. If this were not the case, the Catholic university could not legitimately claim to be a university. But, clearly, the Catholic uni­versity is also concerned about theology. The existence of the Catholic university, as Newman pointed out so accurately, is based on the fact that theology, the study of God, is a valid discipline and as such demands a place in the higher learning. The dilemma for the modem higher education, first stated by Newman and still unanswered, is not why there should be Catholic universities but rather how any institution of higher education in which theology is not taught can call itself a university, if a uni­versity is truly to be a center of universal learning. The Catholic university, i.e., the community of scholars and learners at a Catholic university, recognizes the autonomy of the various disciplines and of the various professors and students working within these disciplines. Each discipline discovers or creates its own truth and its own value. Theology could not, even if it should so desire, dictate the content or the direction of learn­ing in the other disdplines. Rather, theology learns from the other disciplines, just as they learn from it. The theologians are interested in examining and developing ever more fully and clearly the "deposit of the faith" just as, for example, the scientist or the lawyer is interested in clarifying more sharply the laws or nature or the principles of jiuisprudence. The Catholic uni­versity makes it possible for theologians, scientists and law­yers to learn together, to con­front each other with vital and real problems, and hopefully to find both the objective and subjective base for a unify­ing view of man and of the universe and the relationship of both to God. 

SINCE the Catholic university is an expression of the Church learning—of the Church's pro­found and lasting interest in learning—^we must ask a further and somewhat odd and troubling question. With whom and from whom does the community of Catholic scholars and students learn? If they learn only with one another and from one an­other can they be said to be honestly and genuinely engaged in learning? Are they open to all possible sources of fact, knowl­edge and imderstanding? One of the most basic laws of learning is that ideas are strengthened or destroyed by conflict, by chal­lenge, by demands for proof and explanation. These would not be likely to be forthcoming in a scholarly community in which there was general agreement on all fundamental issues. In practice, of course, most Catholic universities have a num­ber of professors on their staffs who are not Catholic. And in theory there is nothing in the nature of the Church or of the university which sajrs that Cath­olic scholars should learn only 
REV. JOHN E. WALSH CSC is vice-president for academic affairs at Notre Dame. The University's former vice-president for public relations and de­velopment, and head of the department of education, Fr. Walsh is the author of "Education and Political Power," and has contributed to various professional journals. 
from other Catholic scholars or from Catholic sources. A valid thought, idea, or concept is valid independently of its sources. Further, it is far from the truth, in both theory and practice, that all Catholic scholars are agreed on all fundamental issues. Put positively, the Catholic university should be open to any learning from whatever source and in whatever way that will con­tribute to man's deeper and better imderstanding. 
I T IS a well known fact in the 
• history of both American and worldwide education, that many colleges and universities which started out under religious aus­pices or with some kind of reUgious affiliation have long since become disaffiliated. There is, of course, no built-in guar­antee that the CathoUc univer­sities as we know them today will continue to exist indefi­nitely. It has been repeatedly pointed out that educational in­stitutions are among the most permanent institutions of man. But it is also patent that these educational institutions frequent­ly change form and focus in the course of history. The only answer I would venture to such a speculative question as to whether there will be any Cath­olic universities in the future is the highly pragmatic answer that the Catholic universities—^those that we have now and any that will arise—^will exist as long as they fulfill a recognizably useful purpose and as long as people are interested in cooperating with and supporting that purpose. 
From the viewpoint of the Church—and here, as always, the Church includes both clergy and Catholic lay people—^the Catholic university may have one under­lying purpose of central impor­tance. It is my i>ersonal convic­tion that, as that part of the Church at work at learning, the Catholic university is the greatest single source of vitality and re­newal in the Church. If the Cath­olic universities decline, it is al­most inevitable that the Church itself will decline. Where there is little learning there is little life. 
If the Catholic university is to survive, it will first of all have to be a good university in every sense. The Catholic people, at least in those countries in which Catholic Mgher education is en­tirely privately financed, will not be able to support any vmiveraty which is not dther good or actively striving~:to become good. Those persons who are most interested in the future of the Catholic universiti^ are every­where and alwasrs grappling with the question of how the Catholic university can be '.made better. Part of the question is a financial one: simply, where is the money going to come froin to meet the tremendous expenses of higher education in our day? Another important part of the problem is planning, i.e., setting objectives and programs and concentrating resources. And still a third part of the problem is the manage­ment problem: who is in the best position to administer the Catholic universities? Religious communities? The bishops and thei r advisors? Independent boards of trustees? Lay Catholics devoted to higher education? The total faculty, clerical and lay, or their representative? The stu­dents? Or some combination of these members of the "learning community." 
These questions, it seems to me, are open questions. Probably the only way we will ever know the answers is to do whatever amount of experimenting is i>os­sible, to gather as much informa­tion as can be brought to bear on these various questions, and to hope to find within a context of mutual imderstanding and grave concern the best working solutions. • 
EDITOII'S NOTE.-Three of the preceding four articles appear in their entirety in "Academic Freedom and the Catholic University," edited by Edward Manier and John Houck.and published in April by Fides Publishers, Inc. Other contrib­utors to the volume include Frederick Crosson, Daniel Callahan, Robert Has­senger, Daniel Greenberg and John L. McKenzi* SJ. 232 Pages. $4S5 Cloth. 


Classes 

Parade Heads for June Reonioo 
From all parts of the US and distant comers of foreign lands, Notre Dame Alumni will converge on campus June 8-11 for REUNION '67's hom­tooting, drum-thumping and banjo-picking homecoming. 
Leading the big parade to an ex­pected record-high Reunion atten­dance will be the Class of '17 mark­ing its golden anniversary and formal­ly entering the illustrious ranks of Notre Dame's 50-Year Club. Likemse, the Class of '42 promises to be front and center — fire en^e , convertibles, billboards and all — for its spedal silver anniversary festivities. 
Also in tune with the merriment will be Reunioneers from '22, '27, '32, '37, '47, '52 and '57. And making the scene for the first time are the '62ers. 
The traditional three-day Reunion program affords the returning Alum­nus a unique opportunity to refamil­iarize himself with the academic tenor of the University; the campus of yes­terday, today and tomorrow; and the good fellowship of former classmates. "Liveliness" unquestionably will be the keynote of the weekend as the Classes experience a gamut of events as varied in tone and tempo as Notre Dame itself. 
• "Has Change Run Away With the Church?" sets the intellectual pace as the second Annual Alumni Senunar convenes Jime 8 and 9 in the Center for Continuing Education. Staged in conjunction with Reunion '67, it is an invitation for all Alumni to broaden their horizons through a stimulating inquiry on today's Church. Faculty members will lead participating Alum­ni in an examination of pertinent questions of morality, liturgy and the esdstence of Gk>d. 
•
 "Class" is the password for the weekend as Reunioneers assemble for Friday night dinners and elections; Saturday morning Mass; group pic­tures; frequent discussions and li­bations. 

•
 Tee-ofF for all golf enthusiasts is set for Friday morning as the Reunion golf tournament begins its two-day search for individual and Class cham­pions. 

•
 Mini-buses will shuttle Reunion­eers from the parking lots to their respective halls and will provide a con­venient mode for viewing the chang­ing campus skyline. Hourly tours are on the day-long Saturday schedule of­fering firsthand acquaintance with the growing University. 

•
 "Notre Dame Today" highlights Saturday morning with an hour and a half Alumni faculty evaluation of the four undergraduate colleges. Sptecial emphasis at the Center for Continu­ing Education meeting also will be on changing student perspectives and the evolving curricula. 

•
 The Annual Alumni Banquet culminates Saturday's activities as the ptaths of all Reunion celebrants lead to the North Dining Hall. Father Hesburgh's traditional "State of the University" message is sure to be as exciting as the changes the year has wrought at Notre Dame. Also on tap for the evening is a once-in-a-lifetime event 


* Alumni Mass in Sacred Heart Church closes Reunion '67 Sunday morning. Alumni priests from all re­uniting Classes will join Archbishop Paul J. Hallinan '32 of Atianta in concelebration of the Mass. 


Ridit Connection 
The next time your phone rings, pause just a minute to consider what goes into making that phone call. Once 
ALUMNUS MAY 1947 JUNE 




REUNION '67 
you have, you'll get an instant picture into the professional lives of R. Parker Sullivan '37 and Philip J. Lucier '42. 
Eaqh is president, respectively, of the natipn's largest and third largest independent phone companies. Con­sidering that more than 2,000 inde­pendents (or non-Bell systems) serve over one half the land area in the country, their successes are no mean accomplishments. A parallel study of their careers reveals a niunber of similarities counterbalanced by their individual approaches to the path to the chief executive's post. 
Parker Sullivan is head of General Telephone of California which pro­vides service to approximately two million phones. He was initiated into the telephone industry at Lexington Telephone—^now General Telephone of Kentucky—where he rose through the ranks to become operating vice-president of the General Telephone Company of the Southwest. 
After a term as president of the General Telephone Company of Up­state New York, Parker assumed new duties as vice-president for merchan­dising at General System's New York offices. During his three-year tenure as VP for sales and marketing he established sales and marketing de­partments in all of the parent system's companies. 
Appointment of Parker Sullivan as president and chief executive officer of General of California was announced April, 1962. Since that time he has added two new titles to his impressive career record. He is a director of Western California Telephone Com­pany and president of California Water and Telephone, both subsidi­aries of General Telephone and Electronics Corporation. 
Philip Lucier, on the other hand, was "bom in the business." His father, an executive with the nation's number-two phone company, offered him a job upon graduation. But Phil went to work for Strombeig-Carlson because — he says — they offered him $25 more a week than did his father. 
As a salesman for the communica­tions equipment manufacturer he came to know a great deal about the operations and the finances of small independents. When he left Strom­berg-Carlson he was assistant trea­surer, but in his own mind he is still a salesman. "Oiur challenge is not buying independents," he says of his own company, "but one of selling Continental." 
In April, 1961 he formed his own indej)endent. Continental Telephone, by acquiring the phone system in Millstadt, Illinois which amounted to 2,000 phones. Speaking of his venture, he is quick to admit that his is a job without a future: "I started out at the top as president. Now, there's no place for me to go." 
Continental now serves more than 662,000 phones in 38 states and Canada, die Bahamas and Barbados. The annual report for 1966 shows that five years after incorporating. Continental gained listing on the New York Stock Exchange—one of the youngest companies ever to do so; rose to become the third largest in­dependent phone company in the US; was purchasing new companies at the rate of one per week; bought its first foreign operating properties; and began the manufacture of communica­tions equipment. 
FaM • a Gri^r WorM 
"Cleanliness is next to godliness" may be a time-worn aphorism, but Sister 
M. Richard James SNJM (MBA '65) has taken it to heart and carried it to heretofore unknown heights. 
Last fall a call went out from the Soap and Detergent Association an­nouncing a contest for the outstanding example of improvement in institu­tional cleanliness practices. Contes­tants had to submit a case history detailing their program for improving environmental sanitation and mainte­nance in their institution. 
Such a challenge was right up Sister Richard James' alley. Sister is provincial purchasing agent and local house treasurer in charge of mmnte­nance at the Convent of the, Holy Names. Her duties as convent maiiite­nance chief include responsibility for the upkeep and maintenance of the provincial house and teaching a class in floor care and other maintenance problems to the young sisters. 
Armed with this exj)erienc^ Sister submitted her prize-winning entry describing floor care problems at the convent and her preventive mainte­nance system. Her "system" consists largely of establishing regular floor care schedules, employing proper cleaning and maintenance procedures,. and exercising proper administrative 
coatTol. 
As first-prize winner Sister Richard 


HEAD OPERATORS SULUVAN '37 AND LUCIER '42 SR. JAMES '65 Direct dialing to the top. To th* bottom of things, 
2S 

AlUMNUS MAY 1947 JUNE 
James received §500 and a certificate 
of achievement, was flown to New 
York and feted at a luncheon at the 
Waldorf-Astoria. "Everj'one was very 
nice to me—but as guest of honor I 
had to sit on the dais for luncheon 
with eight men." Her first visit to 
New York City also permitted Sister 
to engage in some long-awaited sight­
seeing. 
A native of Oregon, Sister attended 

business college and the University of 
Oregon where she earned her bach­
elor's in business administration in 
1950. A convert, she taught in several 
Catholic high schools before being 
assigned as administrative aid at the 
provincial house and studied for her 
MBA during Notre Dame's summer 
program for religious. 
The effects of her rise to fame have not quite faded according to Sister. "I have received cute notes from several I graduated with at Notre Dame after they saw my picture in one of the maintenance magazines. I have also received a number of requests from people wanting to know how to take care of their floors." 



ND Festival at Cedar Point 
The good ole summer time will be gay indeed as Midwest Alumni and families gather at Cedar Point, Ohio July 7-9 for the annual Notre Dame 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Miss Audrey Schmidt and THOMAS C. MURPHY '53. Miss Gale Kathryn Kclscy and DO.VALD J. COSTELLO '56. Miss Cornelia Ann Sneed and THOMAS J. SCHRIBER '57. Miss Sandra Oldcishaw and WARREN R. PLUXKETT '60. Miss Kathleen Mary McComb and MARTIN JOSEPH D.ALEY '61. Miss Marie Melinda Rose and BERNARD CO.VNORS O'NEILL JR. '61. Miss Gloria Ostcrhoudt and JOHN C. GAGNON '62. Miss Maureen T. McNclIis and EDWARD J. FANNING JR. '63. Miss SHEILA AN'N FITZGERALD MA '64 and PHILIP F. RILEY '63, MA '64. Miss Erin Kathleen McCabe and DAVID FRANCIS SENG '63. Miss Sandra Joy Moss and MICHAEL EDWARD HOLSTEIN '64. 
Miss Toni Thrall and WILLL-yil P. JOHNSON '64. . iCss Therese McCaffrey and JOHN H. Mc-CONVILLE '64. 
Miss Kathleen Podesta and JOHN THOiL\S MEHIGAN '64. Miss Sheila Anne Walsh and EDWARD SCOTT SCANLAN '64. MISS Kathleen Sue Erans and EDWARD AL­BERT EISWIRTH JR. '66. 

MARRIAGES 

Miss Sandra Helene Buj-sse and EARL JAMES REDDEN JR. '52, Notre Dame, April 1. Miss Marilyn Petroff and MICHAEL J. CON­NOR '61, Notre Dame, April 1. Miss Maureen P. Racine and DENIS F. OWENS '61, Nov. 12. Miss Gailanne Sheridan and MICHAEL J. FOGERTY '64. South Bend. March 11. 
Family Festival. Now marking its fifth 
year the Festival continues a long 
Notre Dame tradition at the resort 
with a thoroughly modem fim-filled 
weekend. 
Established by the Cleveland Club 
the Family Festival invites Alumni 
from all over the Midwest to join in 
the activities. Last year nearly 50 
families from as far as Minnesota re­
sponded to the weekend invitation 
vnth many more driving or boating in 
for the Saturday events. 
As in past years Alumni families will be welcome to stay at the Hotel Breakers, the "world's largest summer hotel," with 1,000 rooms. Rates and reservations for the Festival weekend \\dll be based on a Friday and Satur­day night stay. Full information is available from the Cedar Point com­mittee—^Reservations Manager, Hotel Breakers, Cedar Point, Sandusky, Ohio 44870. 
The resort offers a full range of res­taurants and this year has added a cafeteria, steak house and refreshment stands as well as fully remodeling their dining room. To enable weekenders to take full advantage of the sched­uled events, the hotel also provides baby-sitting and nursery service. 
Ever improving facilities, Cedar Point has expanded its amusement park and now boasts a •ivax museum, sealand, frontier town complete with stage coach ride, and several new rides 
Miss Katherine Ann Weismann and WILLIAM MICHAEL MAROHN '63. Hanover, N.H., Match 18. 
Miss Elaine Diana Roccapriorc and PAUL DAVID TSCHETTER '65, Middlelown, Conn., April 1. 
Miss Gail Marie Hagcrty and GARY RODDY HEDIGER '66, Notre Dame, April 15. Miss Maisarct Ann Spitz and GERALD R. GLOSTER '66, Notre Dame, April 15. 

BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS RIORDAN 'SO, a son, Christopher Robert, Jan. 11. Mr. and Mis. PHILIP W. EVERIST '52, a son. Kirk, April 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. DILENSCHNEIDER '53, a son, David Vincent More, Dec. 25, 1966. Mr. and Mrs. JIM CORCORAN '54, a 
daughter, Moira Elizabeth, April 3. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE WINKLER '57, a son, James Meehan, March 25. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN MARTIN '59, '65L, a flaughter, Catherine McShane, Feb. 10. Mr. and Mrs. P.\UL B. BERETZ '60, a daughter, ftlclissa Mary, Aug. 3, 1966. Mr. and Mre. J. KEX.XETH BOURGON '60, a daughter, Patricia Elaine, Feb. 14. Mr. and Mrs. CH.-MILES F. LENNON '61, a daughter, CoIIccn Anne, Feb. 3. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT BARTHOLOMEW '62, a son, Patrick John, March 3. Mr. and Mrs. JEROME P. NEALON '62, a son, Christopher Sliaun, Afarch 22. Mr. and Mrs. STEVEN CULLITON '64, a son, March 19. Mr. and Mrs. C.H. "HAL" LOEBACH JR. '64, a son, Leonard Joseph, April 20. Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK J. MICHELAU '64, a son, John Frederick, March 13. Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE MURPHY '64, a son, March 19. Mr. and Mis. ARTHUR SWIRTZ '64, a ion, Iklicliacl Arthur, Jan. 25. 
including a rotor, spin-a-top and 
shoot the rapids. Notre Dame families 
will be able to take full advantage of 
these and the multitude of other at­
tractions through use of a discount 
priced coupon booklet. 
Alumni planning to spend the en­
tire weekend will be greeted Friday 
afternoon in the Notre Dame hospi­
tality room where they will receive 
room assignments, information on all 
registered Alumni and their discount 
ticket books. A get-acquainted party 
is scheduled for the early evening 
hours and a complimentary boat ride 
completes the evening's schedule. 
Weekend coordinator Richard Mil­
ler notes that this year special em­
phasis is focussed on the Saturday 
events to enable as many Alumni 
families as p)ossibIe to enjoy a one-day 
visit to the fullest extent. Scheduled 
for the day is a Notre Dame Mass, 
picnic at the resort's new facilities, 
band concert and golf outing at the 
Thunderbird Course with guaranteed 
starting times. 
On tap for the evening's entertain­ment is a full-course buffet dinner featuring special guest speakers from the University. Lakefront fireworks are also planned followed by a dance in the hotel ballroom to the music of the Glenn Miller Orchestra. The Fes­tival closes late Sunday morning with the Rockne Memorial Mass held in the Cedar Point chapel. 
Mr. and Mis. PATRICK T. NASH '65, a daughter, Megan Eileen, De c 16. 


SYMPATHY 
GERARD SMITH '27 en the death of his daughter Stephanie, April 23. JOSEPH MANNEBACH '38 on the death of his mother, April, 1967. JOSEPH L. ADRIAN '39 on the death of his ion, Joseph D. '64, March 12. Rev. JAMES T. HIGGINS '54 on the death of his father, Feb. 11. RICHARD F. MURPHY '54 on the death of his father, March 4. ANDREW C. WALSH '54 on the death of his &tber, February. JOHN M. KENNEDY '56 on the death of his mother, tlarch 24. GERALD J. HOAR JR. '57 on the death of his father Gerald Sr. '21, De c 28, 1966. FRED DEUTSCH JR. '60 on the death of his father Fred Sr. '27, Jan. 27. JOHN A. DRISCOLL JR. '64 on the death of his father John Sr. '27, Feb. 13. ' THOMAS J. FERGUSON '65 on the death of his mother, March 8. JOHN A. BUCK '66 on the death of his father, December. 

DEATHS 
WILLIAM A. WALSH '97, Yoniers, N.Y., Xfarch 18. He was captain and quartciback of the 1895 Irish football team. Two years later he received a law degree from Georgetown U. Law SchooL From 1917 to 1942 he served Yonkets as mayor, city manager, city judge and corporation counsel. Sur^ving arc three sons and a daughter. 
J. CLYDE LOCKE LLB '01, St. Petersburg. Fla., Feb. 23. He is survived by a daughter. 
FRANK PRYOR '06, Pueblo, Colo., March 31. He is survived by a daughter. Miss Marjorie Piyor, 435 S. Curson, Apt. 2-H, Los Angeles 90036. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 



annixal aluLmni seminar 
Perplexed over Ciianses in Today's Churcli? 
Notre Dame's second Annual Alumni Seminar will be launched at Noon on June 8 with Alumni joining leading members of the Notre Dame facul^ in a discussion on recent changes in today's Church. "Has Change Run Away \vith the Church?" will provide the framework in which returning Alumni will explore for two days postconciliar changes in the Church. 
WILLIAM I. BURKE '12, Worcester, Mass., Feb. 9. He is survived by his widow, 17 Monroe Ave., Worcester, Mass. 01602. 
R. JOHN MILLER '17, Celina, Ohio, Nov. 18, 1966. 
Rev. DONALD P. MacGREGOR CSC '19, 
Notre Dame, April 4. A missioner in India for 
16 years, he later served as chaplain to the Holy 
Cross Brothers in New York State and at two 
high schools in the South. 
HENRY M. McCULLOUGH '20, Davenport, 
Iowa, Feb. 2. 
JAMES R. EMSHWILLER '21-'23, Hartford 
City, Ind. 
GEIt-VLD J. HOAR '21, South Bend, Dec. 28, 
1966. He was a member of the Monogram Club. 
Surviving are his widow, 221 N. Scott, South Bend 
46601, and sons including Gerald J. Jr. '57. 
ALBERT CARROLL '22, Rockford, HI., April 
26. He is survived by his widow, 1526 Price St., Rockford. 
JAMES F. McNICHOLAS LLB '25, Chicago, 
April 4. He was an attorney for the Cook County 
department of public aid. He had served as 
president of the Chicago ND Club in 1934. 
Sur\-i\*ing are three sisters. 
FRED DEUTSCH '27, Neenah, Wis., Jan. 27. He is sur\'ived by his widow, 423 Rirk Dr., Neenah 54956 and son Fred Jr. '60. 
JOHN A. DRISCOLL '27, Highbnd Park, HI., Feb. 13. He is survived by his widow, 170 Ridge Rd., Highland Park 60623, a son John Jr. '64 and two daughters. 

ROBERT J. MOHLMAN LLB '28, Lafayette, Ind., April 7. CAROLUS A. OULETTE '28, Miami, Fla., Feb. 22. 
JAMES L. MCDONALD '30, LOS Angeles, April 17. He is survived by his widow, 2798 McConncIl Dr., Los Angeles 90064. 
RICH.ARD J. BARBER SR. '31, Rye, N.Y., April 10.' A practicing attorney, he had served as Rye City Judge since 1946 and was a director of the Mamatoncck Federal Savings and Loan 
ALUMNUS MAY 1947 JUNE 
Topics for this year's conference are: "Can you Pray at Mass?" by Rev. Aelred Tegels OSB; "New Sins and Old Commandments" by Rev. Charles Sheedy CSC; "Wanted Dead or Alive —God" by Rev. Albert L. SchUtzer CSC; "Authority, Conscience and Freedom" by Rev. James T. Burtchaell CSC; and "Why Bother Being a CatiioUc?" by Prof. J. Philip Gleason. 
Assn. 
ALBERT J. BR.\SSEUR '32, South Bend, July 
10, 1966. He operated and owned the Associated 
Unden\Titers, Inc., an insurance and real estate 
business. Surviving are his widow, 140 N. Varsity 
Dr., South Bend, three sons and a daughter. 
JAMES W. WARDELL '32, Wihnington, Del.. 
Nov., 1963. 
CHARLES E. MONTGOMERY '33, Spring­
field, Ky., March 18. He had served as ctmnty 
attorney for Washington (Ky.) County for the 
past 21 years and was a former representadve of 
the Washington-Mercer legislative district. He is 
survived by his widow, Springfield, Ky., and three 
sons. 
RICHARD E. KELLEY '34, Baton Rouge, La., 
Sept. 7, 1966. 
FRANCIS X. DEERY '36, Indianapolis, March 
13. He is survived by his widow, 5110 Pleasant Run Prkn?., Indianapolis, Ind. 46219 
ARTHUR A. S.ANDUSKY '36, Washington, DC, March 24. An attorney for several go\-em­ment agencies, he was also a legislative rep for the National Coal Policy Conf., and Senate com­mittee staff member. He had previously served as judge in the Sheridan, Wyo. municipal and juvenile courts. Surviving is his widow, 2720 Ordway St., Washington, DC. 
JAMES L. QUINN JR. '39, La Habra, Calif., April 17. A sales engineer for RCA, he served as football manager while at ND. Surviving are hU widow, 1042 Randall St., La Habra 90631, and three daughters. 
NELSON J. VOGEL '39, South Bend, April 8. He was head of his own CPA firm. Nelson Vogel & Co.y which he founded in 1955. Surviving an his widow, 18190 Inwood Rd., South Bend 46614, and four sons. 
JOSEPH A. PAPPALARDO MS '47, PhD '49, Mettering, Ohio, March 29. He was a professor of chemistry at the U. of Dayton, chairman of the" Dayton chapter of the AJnerican Chemical Society and author in the field of organic chemistry. Surviving arc his widow, 1325 Berwin Ave., 
Although the Alumni Seminar im­mediately precedes REUNION '67, it is not lunited in attendance to the Reunion Classes. All Alumni are urged to attend and decide for them­selves, "Has Change Rim Away with the Church?" For further information and reservations write IMMEDI­ATELY to: Dean Thomas P. Bergin, Center for Continuing Education. 
Mettering, a son and a flaushter. 
lUYMOND G. SPOERL '49, NUes, Mich.< March 19. President of the southwestern Michigan board of realtors, be had been active In com­munity woi^ that Included the United Fund and Chamber of Commerce of Greater NOes. Surriv­ing are his widow, 1767 Flatt St., NUes, Mich. 49120, two sons and two ilaughteis. 
DAVID HAROLD COWDIN '50, Dallas, Jan. 3, 1966. 
RONALD J. RUNDSTEDT '52, Com-ent Sta­tion, N.J., Oct. 3, 1966. He is survived by ~ffi widow, 10 Brothers Place, Convent Station, N.J. 
Lt. JOSEPH D. ADRIAN '64, River Ec^e, N.J., March 12. He was killed in action while flying art Air Force mission over Vietnam. Surviving are bis parents, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph 
L. Adrian '39, 2S7 Mamung Ave., River EdgCy two brothers including Terrence '68 and a sister. 


FACULTY AND STAFF DEATHS 
Rev. JOBS J. KEDDJSCrOS CSC '23, *30 of Moreau Semi­nary <Ii«l April 19. He had q>ent his entire career at Notre Dame serving as supervisor of maintenance from the time of ISi onfinatioa in 1^4 imtil 1946; and for the last 20 yeazs he' was purcfaasii^ agent and 
c&ecfor of the campoi fanncfay. ^ 
Rev. WILLIAM J. LYONS CSC '17 died April 30 at Holy Cross House on the campus. Tbe holder of a master's in lustory from Catholic Urnver­ntft he taught for 21 years at Notre Dame, University of Portland, St. Edward's Uni-verity and at Holy Cross 
Seminary. He also served as a school chaplain for five years prior to his retirement in 1964. 

1 ^ ^%-Year Club 
•^^ H I I w-as glad to receive tlic news 

^^m^^^ alMut JIM HAYES LLBU7 and ^^ ^ his brothers. I recall very well working with Jim Hayes ^vhcn he was on loan to the social security program in the early da>-s. Undoubtedly, Jim made some \-aluablc contribu­tions to the claims di\'ision of the new social insurance program. 
While in California this past winter, I had an interesting experience—stopped to talk with a man staying in the apartment building who stepped out of a car with a Wisconsin license and a Notre Dame sticker. He was Elmer Bctz from Brookfield, Wis. who has a son \vho is a junior at Notre Dame. While he himself grad­uated from Marquette U. in '49 and then attended Northwestern, he said *'thc sticker is from my son, cuirently a junior at tliat fine school/* 
Had a note from our old friend ALVIN "HEINE" BERGER who is spending tlic winter in Florida with headquarters at Eustis, Fla. He was lucky to get away from the especially severe weather in Michigan. A note from HENRY J. FRAWLEY SR. '14 from Spcariish, 
S.D. reports that he and his son HENRY J. JR., also an ND graduate, arc keeping busy on their 5,000-acre ranch. Hank said they were glad to have escaped the severe kind of weather so prevalent in the Midwest and other sections of the country. 
It was indeed a pleasure to hear from GROVER liflLLER '16, who has been engaged in the general insurance and bond business for the past 50 years with offices at 220 Ninth St., Goodman BIdg., Radne, Wis. For about 40 of those years he was associated with his brother BERNIE '17, who died in 1956, in the firm known as Miller Bros. Agency Inc. Grovcr said that he was spending 10 weeks in Florida starting Feb. 1. Any of liis friends who arc in the vicinity of Fort Pierce wll be able to find him each year at 1502 Sea\ray Dr. in that cit>*. But, he says you will have to go to Boulder Lake, Boulder Junction, Wis. if you want to find him during the hot summer months. I hope to see Iiim in Racine before he goes north to his smnmcr home. The Afillers ha^-o a daughter and a son. Their son-in-laW is associated with Grover in the in­surance business. Grover said the Class of '16 had a wonderful Reunion last June: "Now I'm going back e\*ery June." That's a good resolu­tion, Grover. May I point up the moral in Grover's resolution is that it's a wonderful ex­perience for all who take ad^-antagc of the big weekend Reunion time at Notre Dame. 
WALTER L. CLEMENTS '14 502 W. Navarre, South Bend, Ind. 46616 
ALBERTA. KUHLE'15 117 Sunset Ave., LaGrange, in. 60525 

1917 
EDWARD J. McOSKER 525 N. Melrose Ave., Elgin, III. 60121 

ROCKNE THE MAN 
PAUL CASTNER '23 is gather­ing material for a book detailing the personal highlights of Knute Rockne, Paul will be on the cam­pus during the June Reunions and asks any of you who are returning and have stories of this personal side of the Rockne career to bring the material or to contact him in person at that time. 
^ ^^m ^^ ANOTHER CHANCE for ^M ^ ^^1 ^^^P y°^ ^° remember a ciass­
• ^B^P • ^^^^ mate on his birthday. I ^^^^ I ^^^P List is getting smaller— 
so, everyone remember to send greetings, PETER J. RONCHETTI. 1242 Cambridge Dr., Corpus Christi, Tex. does a real job remembering. "YOUNG DUTCH" ARTHUR 
J. BERGMAN '17, 3910 Rosemary St., Chevy Cliase, Md. is also great in acknowledging receipt of greetings. 
June 23, EDWARD J. REYNOLDS, 497 High­land Ave., Maiden, Mass. 02148; June 16, LAM­BERT Q. SENG, 6508 N. Glenwood Avx., Chi­cago, m. 60626; June 29, ALBERT S. O'SUL­LIVAN, 513 Warren Ave., Belvidcre, lU. 61006; July 3, JOHN U. RILEY '17, Hidden Acres, Fogg Point, Frecport, Me. 04032; July 9, CHARLES C. CONNOLLY '19, 2347 Applegate Ave., Klamath Falls, Ore. 97601 and Rev. CH\RLES JOHN WILLLAMS, 311 E. Grove Ave., St. Malachy Rectory, Rantoul, III. 61866; July 14, THOMAS L. MOORE, Box 2417, Tuba, Okla.; July 28, GEORGE L. CAVANESS '19, 428 
E. I4th St., Tulsa, OUa, 74120; and July 29, JAMES G. WALLACE, 1132 Bdlevue Ave., Sj-racuse, N.Y. 13204. 
Received a most interesting letter from 
BRAULIO ANTONIO MUNECAS '16. 776 
Georgetown St., Rio Picdras, Puerto Rico 00927. 
He and family Hcd Cuba when the Communists 
took over. You 'I6ci3 from Corby and Sorin 
Halls who remember ^funecas, tf you write 
him, will Icam what went on in Cuba. The 
ALUMNUS roster lost him and he is listed as mail 
unrctumcd. Sure pleased to hear from Braulio. 
With the kind of cold weatlier we have enjoyed 
here tliis winter it is nice to know that you 
have friends "with bucks" that can duck it all 
and hit for the Florida sunshine. PAUL J. 
FOGART Y '17, 5555 Sheridan Rd., Chicago, one 
of our seniors, writes: **again expect to have a lot 
of laughs with CHARLIE BACHMAN '17, PREP 
WELLS '15 and JOE FLYNN '17. Hope that 
Alice and ALVIN BERGER '15, wintering in 
Eustis, join the party." &faybe one of the guys 
will write and I'll have a report for next issue. 
Xfiss liaving any report from trackman E. M. STARRETT, 419 Quincy St., Port Townsend, Wash. We had a lot of fun with the card the All-America Water Boy sent JOHN A. LEMMER, 901 Lake Shore Dr., Escanaba, Kfich. 49829. John and Mrs. L. are spending the mntcr in Aliami pla^-ing golf. Lemmcr sent me STAR-RETT's card and it was passed along to JOSEPH 
T. RILEY, 715 Hackley Bldg., Muskegon, Mich. 49440. Riley writes that he recen*cd greetings from John and RONCHETTI. 
a\RLETON D. BEH '17, 5323 Watcibury Rd., Des Moines, lou'a "Iiigh-tailed" it to his vnnter home in Fhoneix with Mrs. B. and mil meet his neighbor B. J. VOLL '17 and is looking forward to a lot of fun. You can't beat the life of the idle rich. If you should go to Robinson, III. (don't know why you would) hut on the Square you see the Bradbury BIdg. The second floor b occupied by the office of WILLIAM E. BRAD­BURY '16. Bill will show )-ou letter from Coach Ara Parseghian and when you leave after looking around, you leave knowing cxacdy w4iere Bill got his degree. 
"YOUNG DUTCH" ARTHUR BERGMAN '17 acknowledged birthday card with a nice note. SENG, as well as MUNECAS, received same. Seng liked the Dutch Wind Mill statsoneiy. Pleased to hear from "BUTCH" RAY C. WHIPPLE, 373 Western Ave., Jolict, 10. Abo heard from JOHN L. REUSS, 909 Orlando Dr., Ft. Wayne, Ind. Come this summer I promise to stop in and have coffee with John. Have not seen him since 35th anniversary. 
Expected to hear from that guy M. G, KAZUS, 101 KncoK Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. 14216. Trust that Max is well and that he sent birthday greetings to Rev. FRANCIS MONIGHAN, Gregory, S.D. and that Kazus cht>pped a card to JAMES G. WALLACE, 1132 BeIIe\-ue Ave., Sjiacuse, N.Y. Counted on him also to remember YOUNG DUTCH BERG&IAN '17 and BILL BRADBURY '16 with a card. 
Heard from Ret. USNR Comdr. CHARLES W. CALL, 1M7 Biltmore Dr., Winter Haven, Fb . about his grandson Chrbtophcr Call Bonwit, 155 Cavanaugh Hall, ND. Bonwit is looking for scholarship aid and Grandpa is heading tlic drive. Anyone knowing whom CALL should contact drop Charlie a note. Bet if one should suggest Rome, Call would pump off a letter. Call wrote the man, "who set up the ND-MSU rivalry ^viih no contract but a handshake," THOMAS H. KING, 446 Kedzic Dr., East Lansing, Mich. 
Maybe Rev. C. J. WILLI.AMS will remember in his prayera: NORBERT G. MONNING, Carrabelle, Fla. who passed away Jan. 7 and FRANK B. MARSHALL, Santa Monica, Calif. who passed away Feb. 9. Father Williams has accepted the chairmanship for our Golden Jubilee Reimion in June, 1968. 
GEORGE E. HARBERT, 1800 3rd Ave., Rock IsUnd, III. 61201, will be honored by Marshall Law School. The citation is for '^distinguished service as a lawyer and a citizen." Any of you ole timers top this? 
Had lunch with LATkfBERT Q. SENG, and JOHN J. VOELKERS, 1006 S. Wesley Ave., Oak I^rfc, III. Seng wrote: 'Tfou must have noticed, as I did, that we started right in as though our last meeting was only a short while ago, wiicreas, in reafity it was almost 50 years ago. A half century, think of that." - That's true. When you return to the campus time just melts away and you'll think that you have been gone but a week­end. That is, so long as you do not look around and sec the many campus changes as to buildings ^-and girls walking around. Kfarch 16 had red carpet treatment on campus—lunch at the Inn with JA&IES E. ARMSTRONG '25, editor and JOHN P. THURIN '59. mg. ed. ALUMNUS. Told 'em I wrote to Father WILLIAMS asking his advice about obtaining Ordination date of our Class clergy. Mr. Jim suggested we wait — perhaps we could list tlieir marriage date! Never­theless Fr. Williams replied; "I won't list a marriage date, however my Ordination date is June 10, 1922." I believe everyone enjo}^ a birthday or anniversary remembrance. 
Don't credit this Ole Timer about these card ideas. Got a sister **nuts" on sending out cards — and she suggested it all. 
The early replies <»ming in from the wedding anntveisary cards lead this ole bachelor to believe that some of you were most lucky, "hit the jackpot" and married an angel. The only other thought that comes to mind is that you bums win get lumps on your head if you miss sending the dates in. We admit N D men are NUMBER ONE HUSBANDS and it is a lucky girl who lands one. 
Wedding anniversary dates: June 1, PETER J. RONCHETTI, 1242 Cambridge Dr., Corpus Christi, Tex. and Dr. EDWARD J. REYNOLDS, 497 Highhind Ave., Maiden, Mass.; June 5, GEORGE F. FRANTZ '17, Fennimore, Wis.; June 7, DANIEL E. HILGARTNER JR. *17, 
P.O.
 Box 75, Harbert, Mich, and JAS. P. LOGAN, 2951 S. Fillmore Way, Denver, Colo. 80210; June 20, ALLAN W. FRTTZSCHE, 575 Washington Ave., Elyria, Ind.; June 23, GEORGE 

E.
 HARBERT, 3521 15ih St., Rock Isbnd, lU. 61201, and July 1, THOMAS H. KING, 446 Kedzie Dr., East Lansing, Mich. 


GEORGE WAAGE 3305 Wrightwood Ave., Chicago, III 60647 
1919 
THEODORE C RADEMAKER Peru Foundry Co., Peru, Ind. 46900 
ALUMNUS MAY 1947 JUNE 

letter from ED SCHOLAND carries promises to Rcorivcd a loos ktter be at the next Class Reunion. fraa Jim Kiycs: ' 1 It's alwnys pleasant to hear from those whose last have iniificated above, correspondence was so long in the past that the •th, cbte^and year newness of it is refreshing. Such a letter came (Feb. 27; 1967) be­
1920 1924 
from ALDEN JOHN CUSICK of 11 E. Lake came I cannot be certain vdiea this note will be JAMES H. RYAN St., North Lake, 111. I'm sure he would Eke finished. I confca to one ootstandu^g frailty to hear from some of you guys* (amons many othen—well, perhaps three) and 
170 Maybrook Rd., Rochester, 
that is, procrastinatiott. Tm the Sui^..who sends 
N.Y. 14618 

^B ^^^^ ^'^^Jj^ '^^ news is good this~ time ^•^^^^"^^^B with the exception of the 
• ^^ ^^F I untimely death of JOCK m^^Mmm I MOONEY. A long letter 
amved froia Judge NORM BERRY of the Superior Court of Cook County (III.) in which he tells of his and Elizabeth's planned trip to the Holy Land at the end of a Mediterranean cruise. They have four giund­chtldrcn divided between Norm Berry Jr.*s family and that of daughter Margaret Mary O'Neill. Norm's oldest granddaughter is a sophomore at St. Mary's. 
From GEORGE WTTTERIED comes a long missive telling of a dinner party with Mr. and Mrs. BILL ALLEN in which they apparently discussed their boys and their grandchildren. They both have sons teaching at the U. of Kfissouri. George also has a son who graduated from West Point in 1954 and now is a major in the Air Force assigned to the AF Academy. Bill's boys, besides the one at the U. of Mis­sourif are in the bond business in NYC and with DuPont in Washington. George also reports on LARRY MORGAN who is fine and taking life easy—pretty much as when he was at ND. 
JOE BRANDY gives me a pretty good pitch on JAKE KLINE for the Sorin Award, as do others. He is presently leading RAY SCHUBMEHL by a couple of letters. A letter from MARK ZIMMER arrived in which he says he would like to hear from CARL PFEIFFER and BOB KREMP. CARL SCHUBERT, after 35 years teaching engineering at the U. of Illinois, now spends his winters in Hbleah, Fla. and his sum­mers in the mountains near Hiawassee, Ga. He lives near a mountain lake. Lake Chatuga, and lies about the fish. 
LEO KELLEY tells of spending a Saturday evening with DUKE KENNEY and others out of Notre Dame. Complains, as usual, that he doesn't hear often enough from Joe Brandy who seems to have little success fighting the snow mail around Ogdensburg. HAROLD FOLEY writes with his recommendations for the Sorin Award and his choice for Board members. His writing is the same as when I graded his papers in Father Quinlan's class in economics. One of my greatest claims to fame is that I graded the papers of one who later was to become chairman of the board of Powell lUver P^pcr Co. 
The recommendations are still coming in for nominations to the Alumni Board and the Sorin Au-aid. CHET GRANT sent his in. The mail has been good and appreciated. Let's have more of it. 
From AL ABRAMS comes this word: "Since Notre Dame will be plaj^ng Georgia Tech in football this year, I would like to extend an invitation for cocktails and dinner to any *sur­vi^'or of the Class of '21 who will be attending the game' for the night prior to the game." A note from MORRIS "CLIPPER" SMITH of 31879 Circle Drive, S^Laguna, Calif.: he would like to hear from LITTLE JOE from the "Btg O." He is still in the public relations business. So, Brandy had better write. 
Had a nice long letter from Lucille, widow of HENRY ZICKGRAF who died in May, 1966. She has a daughter who is in the order of St. Joseph of Orange, an order of teaching nuns. Also received a letter from GEORGE E. MEREDITH. He is now a country lawyer and was retired from the insurance company where he served for 43 years. He left as VP, general attorney and a director. He has a talcnti^d, artistic wife who can also cook. They have two married daughters and their son Edward is married and also a lawyer. George also has two standard French poodles. 
A letter from B.R. CARNEY tells me that he works on a consulting basis for the natural gas producing industry largely as an expert mtness before the Federal Power Commission. His family continues to flourbh with the addition of a beautiful baby girl born to his son RICHARD '58 and wife. They now have three babies and with Bernard's daughter's three, there arc six grand­children all of whom they enjoy very much. A 
DAN W. DUFFY 1030Natl. City E. 6th BIdg., 
Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
1922 
Dear Classmate: 
This has to be our very last call in this column to attend our 45th Anniversary Reunion on campus June 9, 10 and 11. Please start putting your affairs in order right now; start malung necessary plans and arrangements to insure that you will be among those present when our gala Class Reunion gets under way. Let no one entertain the thought that he might nvait and attend our Golden Anniversary celebration five years hence. It could be that many of us vnll not be around to answer roll call in '72. The wise men of '22 will let nothing short of an emergency prevent them from attending our 45th Anniversary Reunion. Just where would you find a finer group than the men of '22—so why not be with the finest? And for one weekend, at least, we can forget about international and na­tional problems and complications, and relive our golden campus years. 
A wtird of warning—a stiff fine may be imposed upon any '22 man appearing with a beatle hairdo. HUNK ANDERSON, HARRY MEHRE, PAUL PFOHL and Dr. it\T T WEIS may be called upon to police that problem, if one arises. What­ever you do, don't miss the 45th! Come and bring other classmates along with you. 
Visitors to Florida during the winter season were the HUNK ANDERSONs, CHUCK CROW-LEYs and iht: RALPH CORYNs. 
Anne, daughter of our beloved AARON HUGUENARD and wife Ruby, b now in Wash­ington, DC getting her doctorate in languages at Geoit;etown U. Daughter Jane has one little girl. Aaron Jr. has eight children. Loretta, daughter of our beloved HAROLD KfcKEE of happy memory and wife Ellen, is now a full-fledged Daughter of Charity. Presently, she is teaching high school in St. Louis. Son Earl has four fine children. 
RANGY MILES. FRED DRESSEL, PAT MANION, SARGE OWENS, PAUL SCHWERT­LEY and HAROLD WEBER are busy these days making the rough ways smooth for our campus visit in June. Dr. DAN SEXTON, AL CAR­ROLL and TOM McC\BE have written to announce that they arc pbnning to be on hand in June. 
G. A. "KID" ASHE 
175 Landing Rd. N., Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
1923 
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER 1667 Riverside Dr., Apt. A, South Bend, Ind. 46616 
"get wdl** cards that arrive after the funeral and only sends maternity or '%aby cards'* boi Labor Day. After aD, from 1924 to 1967 is a a^an of some 43 years. In ptospcct, somewhat distininns, in retrospect not too bad and not .filled' mth regrets. 
"Leaving ND to Woostock. N.Y., secie^ to 
J.P. HcEvoy, writer and playwr^t. FDnt ex­perience with a great boss. First experience with taking phy dictation to the t7pewritcx^-w».short­hand I hiboriously learned in high scho^; first experience with a h^h powered card (flS per) and a gity who just wanted to arrive; ^ t ex­perience with Ziegfeld FoICes, Broadway,'Algon* cpiin Hotel, W.C. Fields, Jack Donahue and so many others—the Astaircs (you see them tf Incky on late iho%n). After a bit—asst. to prc^Jcnt of advertisins agency; and a little bit to ranmng a publishii^ company—iniblished twro of KNUTE ROCKNE's books with CHARLIE GRIMES!. A Httle bit to publicity manager of the Fifth Avenue Assn. in NYC—and then as asst. manager of Equitable Life Assurance Society in New yoA —and fiiully to group insurance dept. of "i&mh and McLennan Inc.—the b^gest, the best-^-ond asst. VP and then VP of the corporation. My boss in these years until he retired was RALPH J. LATHROP, one of ND's most famous of the Jesse Harper teams. So that's 43 years in brief— for the sordid business part. 
"I wooed and married in 1931 Helen Walker of Lowdl, Mass. We have three dai^hters, Anne and Mary graduates of Trinity Col., Washington, and Helen graduate of Immaculata, Washington. Aho JAMES HAYES JR., AB and ME from ND and LLA from Harvard U. 
*'So Jim, that's pretty much the story. I had an accident in 1958 that smashed my left leg badly and I spent about IS months between hosintal, hospital bed at home, casts (5) and wheelchair—and for this reason I toc^ an early retirement at 62 cuttii^ down my traveling. At £5 when I really reached retirement age taj company dedded that it would be imposnble, %vithout me, for them to continue on a few difficult tmion-management cases (I forgot to say that employee benefits, covering most of the inqiortant corporations in the US was my job). I also built a department of 18 fellows and seven gii^ to run it when I was in Florida, Arizona, Ikbine, etc.—so they asked me to stay on until 70 which I am cloing. I won't take a case unless I represent both rides of the negotiating table. 
"The three girb are married—^Mary Hayes Lynch in Laurel, Md. with four children; Helen Ibyes Fletcher in BAahreme, I^. with three; and Anne Hayes Cleary with one son in Norwalk, Conn. James Hayes Jr. has still to produce-* but .. . well. Harvard! 
"I defy any '24 friend to match this report even though the editor cuts everything except that I was of that Class of '24. Regards to all oi them and Father JOHN GWANAUGH! GEORGE NORMAN! JIM ARMSTRONG! SHUSTER and countless others, and you!" 
JAMES R. MEEHAN 301 S. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46601 
By the time you read tUs you will have re­ceived my letter covers ing our **Jira Arm­
1925 
strong IN-BETWEEN­ER REUNION" June 9, 10 and 11. Jim » retiring as Alumni Secretary in August. This one has just got to be our BECT! We have an in­teresting program and there still will be time fw smne *'bull sesrions" and a stroll around the lakes. I did just that this morning and ended up at the Grotto and lit a candle for the success of our Renni<m in all its phases. With all the changes going on it's both picisant and comforting to know that your Alma' Mater hasn't changed basically. It's good to come back and do a Httle soul-searching. 
Of all tlungs, your secretary is getting some netn. A dandy letter from JOHN TRAYNOR: 

ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
•*I was delighted to read about the plans for a Reunion in June. I hope and believe I will be able to make it. Perhaps the letterhead will confuse you. I retired from Mutual Life in Oct. '65. I started my own consultant firm and two da>'s later my first client was Mutual. I have charge of a large complex the company is building in S>Tacusc, 
N.Y. This was a project started under my regime, as VP for mortgage investment. This along with other assignments keeps me prctt>' bu5>', but also very contented. We have a small place down on Siesta Key in Sarasota and I get down there about every five weeks or so. GIL SCHAEFFER has a beautiful home on Bird Key so I get to sec him occasionally. So far I haven't been able to get my old roommate into a gin game. I guess since JOHX MOR.AX showed us both how to play the game at our 40th Reunion, Gil has become gun shy. John's new address: MOXY, Broadway at 55th St., New York 10019." 
DICK FUITE: "For some time I have wanted 
to write you about the good job you are doing. 
I am now retired, but I am still on the board of 
a little company. Pacific Coast, in Bedford, Ohio. 
I get back there several times a year. Send mc 
a list of the '25crs living in the Cleveland area. 
I sec BOB HURLEY once in a while in .Azusa, 
Calif." Dick, you will have the list by the time 
you read this. Remember me to Bob and see that 
the two of you get back in June. BILL HURLEY 
w\l be on deck, so the three Hurle}^ can have a 
Reunion of our own—we sat next to each other 
for four years and that's how I made magna cum 
laude with those two brains. Dick is at 2 Fawn 
Ridge, Fairfax, CaliL 44932. 

TONY GONZALEZ imtes from the far-off 
Philippines: "I hope you fellou-s have a grand 
Reunion in June. There is nothing I would like 
better than to sec some of the members of the 
Class after these many years. If ELMER LAYDEN 
should attend, please give him my warm regards. 
I hope he is well." All the best to you, Tony. 
Elmer is fine. I saw him in June at our Chicago 
Reunion committee meeting. Tony, I hope to see 
you on your beautiful island some day soon. 
Tony is chairman of the board of the Insular Life 
Assurance Co. Ltd., Insular Life BIdg., 6731 
A^aly Ave., Makati, Rizal, Philippines. 

HAROLD H.\LL: "I alu-ays feel guilty when I read >-our veri* splendid column and realize that I have ne\"er written and mentioned it to >*ou. I am a firm believer in alwa>-s giving one his flowers, while he can sniff them and you certainly deserve a few orchids. I hope to drop in on that Reunion in June. Just a brief note about m>-sclf. I took off from ND ^\ith an LLB and never practiced law until recently when I had to defend a couple of my salesmen in Stamford, Conn. I'm glad to say that I won the case so I'm quitting— batting .1000 percent. I've confined my activities to the publishing business in White Plains, N.Y. We recently moved to Stamford, Conn, so I am semi-retired. I'll see >*ou in June." Harold F. Hall, President, Catholic Literary Guild Inc., 225 Central Ave., White Plains, N.Y. Thanks, Harold, for the orcliids. This Class could make an%'one look good. 
PAUL ROMWEBER: '*I am still doubtful if I will be able to make the Reunion. There is a family affair that might interfere. I have not closed the door on this yet, so I w^ll keep you informed. I will see you at the North Carolina furniture market." Will do, Paul, and I hope to see you in June. 
REMEMBER our Class Dinner Friday evening with our own Bishop JOHN KING MUSSIO. Our Saturday brunch \rith Dr. GEORGE SHUSTER followed up in the afternoon with Gina and PAT MANION and all the trimmings of the JAMES E. ARMSTRONG Reunion week­end. You just can't afford to miss this one and we will all be sorry if you do. I ^vill be seeing" you all. 
JOHN P. HURLEY 2085 Brookdale Rd., Toledo, Ohio 43606 

This issue I have no news either good or bad. How about hear­ing from some of those classmates that we have not had any word from in a long time? Starting down the list I will name the first dozen: FRANK BON. JOE BROUSSARD, ED BYRNE, PAT and DICK COLLINS, FR.ANK CONROY, BOB CUMMINS, JOE D.AWES, BOB DORAN^ PAUL FLEMING, JIM GLYN.N and JIM GRAHAM. I hope a number of these by seeing 
1926 

their names in print will come through with some news for the next issue. 
J. N. GELSON 
Gelson & Lowell, inc., 200 E. 42nd St., New York. N.Y. 10017 
The response to the questionnaire sent out in January has been excellent. According 

1927 
to present indications, at least 100 wll attend our 40-Year Reunion; that will be very good, indeed. Most of the classmates responding have added a personal note showing that the interest in this event is great. The pre­ceding issue of the ALUMNUS listed all those from whom replies were received prior to Fdi. 3. Following are the names of those who have replied since that date: 
The following have ad\-iscd me that they vnU attend: CHARLES N. BERETZ, EDWIN A. BERKERY, EDWARK T. BRODERICK, JAMES 
S. BROWN, HUGH L. CAMPBELL, JR., MAURICE "PAT" COHEN, DANIEL F. CUN­NINGHAM, JR., WILLIAM J. DEGNEN, AL­BERT L. DOYLE, WILLIAM S. FINUCANE, JOSEPH A. GARTLAND, JR., JOHN M. GLASKA, CHARLES ROBERT GOSLIN, JOHN 
E. GRUNING, JOH.N J. R\LPIN, M. ALBERT HENRY, DAVID P. HICKEY, ROBERT IR­MIGER, W. D. KAVANAUGH, ELMER F. MARCHINO, FRANK X. MASTERSON,, MI­CHAEL P. McDERMOTT, WALDEN W. Mc-DADE, VINCENT A. McNALLY, JAMES McNEILE, ARTHUR J. MONACO, JOSEPH 
A. NULTY, JOHN J. NYIKOS, CHARLES O'NEILL, JAMES T. QUINN, CLARENCE J. RUDDY, DONALD J. SEHL, JOHN J. SLOCUM, HORACE G. SPILLER SR., LUTHER 
M. SWYGERT, JAMES L. VALLELY, TASS D. WATERSON and ERNEST J. WILHELM. 
The following have advised that they may attend: SEBASTIAN T. BERNER, JOHN G. BURNS, WILLIAM E. CARTER, FRANKLIN 
L. CONWAY, WILLIAM E. COOGAN, AL­FRED A. DUFFY, VICTOR H. FALL, ED­WARD H. FENLON, JAMES F. FOLEY, JR., 
L. WILLIAM FURY, FRANK J. HAGEN­BARTH, WILLIAM D. HALLORAN, STANLEY 
J. LECHOWICK, CL.AYTON G. LeROUX, JOSEPH M. MCCARTHY, JAMES P. MCFAR­LANE, WALTER P. McKENNA, WILLIAM A. O'KEEFE, ROBERT A. ROY, JOHN W. SLAT­TERY, GERARD J. SMITH and RUSSELL E. VOYER. 
The following have advised that they vnll not attend: VINCENT F. BALL, JOHN A. BYRNE, VINCENT P. HENGESBACH, W. E. JASPER, JAMES A. JONES, FRANK L. KANE, JAMES 
J. O'CONNOR, JR., FRED A. REED, GERALD E. RHODES, WALTER W. SMITH and EUGENE JOHN "Scrap.Iron" YOUNG. 
I have received enough material from those replying to fill several columns, but space simply does not permit setting down all of them here. Some of the suggestions are particularly note­worthy. For instance, FRANKLIN CONWAY who will try to join us believes we should have a few well-guarded copies of the Dome to peruse. BILL CARTER draws a picture ol a mug that appears to have foam on top which he puts down for the ans^ven to the Class Dinner program. EDWARD FENLON says that he is counting on HERB JONES to set up a golf tournament. JOHN ROACH agreeably says that he will accept whatever is set up. Several request that priests who were active during our days be espcdally invited. HORACE SPILLER recommends a debate at the dinner between the liberals and conservatives; bat since this is intended to be a friendly occasion; perhaps,, we had better pass that one up. 
DAN, CUNNINGHAM was in Chicago for a few days in March. Advantage was taken of his availability and he met with MIKE SWYGERT, 
DICK HALPIN, JOE DELLA MAR U and your 
secretary to go over various suggestions for tlic 
weekend. Most of the area chairmen are on the 
job. We hope that the classmates on the "Maybe" 
list can be persuaded to change over to "Yes." 
For that matter, perhaps some of those who at 
present say they cannot attend will change their 
minds. By the time this issue is published all will 
have received another letter. If you haven't 
already responded, please do so as soon as 
possible. 
One interesting feature demonstrated by the returns is the continuing interest of our class­mates in the University. One outstanding Notre Dame family, for instance, is that of VIN B.ALL. He points out that his father ALPHA J. BALL was a member of the Class of '96. His brother RAYMOND was '29 and GERALD was '31. Furthennore, Vin has a son EDWARD who is a member of the Class of *52. That isn't all. Vin expresses the hope that his three grandsons will have the same privilege. The fact that some of our relatives naturally arc girls doesn't seem to deter our classmates. JIM BROWN points out that his brother-in-law was graduated from Notre Dame in '41 and his son-in-law in '60. That is real control. 
Generally speaking, the returns indicate that the years liavc treated us well and wc have reached the sixties with grace and dignity. The future is viewed with \'arying attitudes; some point out that they have retired and that their only plans for the future are to stay retired. Others say that they intend to keep on working. Some say they intend to travel. A few, more realistic perhaps tlian tlie rest of us, simply arc in doubt. 
I believe this is the last one to appear before oiu: Reunion. I hope to greet you all at that time. 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 32 S. River St., Aurora, III. 60504 
Dr. GUY LOR.ANGER 
died Jan. 5 in Grosse 
Pointe, Mich, after a 
long illness. Despite his 
ill health, Guy had been carrying on medical research relating to the aftereffects of war-incurred wounds and injuries upon US ser\icenien and was publicly honored for his marked contributions in this field. Dr. C.\RL PETTERSCH reports that when he saw Guy last spring after he had been through a ph>-sically rough time, his courage and spirit had not been dimmed one bit. Guy had six children. He ser\'ed as major in active duty from 1940 to 1946 in the New Guinea and Philippine campaigns. VIC ZIMMERMAN, a Notre Dame roommate of Guy, advised me from Scarsdale, N.Y. that his \v-ife had been seriously injured in an automobile accident. 
BER.\I£ ZIPPERER died on Jan. 16 in Nilcs, Ohio after a long illness. He had practiced law in Warren, Ohio for a number of years and recently had wxirkcd in Mobile, Ala. at the Brookley AFB. Bemie is sur%*ived by his ^vife. Our Treasurer JOE LANGTON arranged for Classes for Guy and Bemie. He also had a Mass said for all the living and one for all the deceased members of the Class. 
BOB H.AMILTON sent the foUowing: **The proposed 'Reunion in Bermuda' scheduled for March was called off because some of our class* mates were of the opinion that not enough notice had been given to enable them to make a firm commitment. There arc three other suggestions now in the mill and we would like the opinions of interested classmates as to their wishes in this matter. (1) Have the reunion (at the same rates) in the fall of this year. (2) Have the reunion in Bermuda early in March, 1968. (3) Have a reunion in Afiami the week of Nov. 19. The ND-Miami game is to be played there on Nov. 24 and the team wiD stay at the beautiful and restful Key Biscayne Hotel which is on the ocean front at Key Biscayne, Kliami. The only problem with this suggestion is that it encompasses Thanksgiving Day and might detract from the proposed reunion at ND for the Michigan State game which is scheduled for Oct. 28. 
"However, if you are interested in this Miami proposal, be sure to get tickets for the Miami game and make reser\'ation5 at the Key Biscayne. This game is expected to be a beaut according to Miamians. We would very much like to have your comments and suggestions as to your interest in any of the above proposals. They will help guide us in doing a better job of future planning." 
Please wnte BOB HAMH-TON at 153 Sear­ingtoun Rd., Manhassct, L.L, N.Y. 11030 letting 
1928 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
him know your interest. 
Kay and JIM ALLAN liad a delightful return home to Chicago get-together for the BUCKLEYs in February. HOWIE PHALIN and Pete took time from their busy schedule to be present. 
ED MCKEOWN and Blanche came in from Glen 
Ellyn and BILL MURPHY and his sUter Helen 
from Edwardsburg, Mich, for the affair. RAY 
&1ULLIGAN, who looks as young as tver, vras 
on deck. JIM ALLAN'S son Jim a Harvard Law 
School graduate, who is now with Continental 
Illinois National Bank and Trust Co. of Chicago, 
also joined us. We attended the Chicago Notre 
Dame Club Communion Breakfast with the BILL 
DWYERs and the JIM ALLANs. I met BILL 
KEARNEY and BERT KORZEN. BiU tells me 
that DICK PHELAN b making progress toward 
recovery from a long illness. 
Dr. CARL PETTERSCH, dean of graduate 
studies at Danbury Slate Col., sent me a clipping 
from the Hartford Courant carrying a picture of 
JOHN F. ROBINSON and announcing his ap­
pointment to the Connecticut Board of State 
Colleges by Governor Dempsey. John, who is 
founder and headmaster of the Robinson School 
in West Hartford, Conn., has served as chairman 
of the advisory board of Albertus Magnus Col. 
for 17 years. He is past chairman of the West 
Hartford Board of Education, past president of 
the West Hartford Chamber of Commerce and is 
now president of the Capital Region Mental 
Health Assn. John was a member of the Connecti­
cut White House Conference on Education Com­
mission and was a delegate to the White House 
Conference in Washington. Dr. Pettersch com­
mented that he feels sure that John will make a 
strong and fair-minded addition to the Connecticut 
Board. 
JOHN FONTANA advised me of the death of 
ED SARGUS, a brother of GEORGE SARGUS, 
in Bcllaire, Ohio. Ed, an ND gtad, was an out­
standing state senator for a number of years in 
Ohio and had been recently appointed Belmont 
County probate and juvenile judge. John Fontana 
also mentioned that Judge Kinncary recently ap­
pointed JOHN IGOE receiver for Techno Inc. 
A picture of ED BRENNAN, director of Cook 
County's department of central services, appeared 
on the first page of the Chicago Tribune recently 
in connection with an announcement concerning 
tax bills. My Miami correspondent F. JIM 
O'BRIEN sent me clippings from the Miami 
Herald carrying pictures of Sheriff GEORGE 
LEPPIG. While I was in Lansing speaking at 
Michigan State U., I called DON RAU and found 
that he was vacationing in Hawaii at the time. 
Don is still with the Alichigan department of 
revenue in Lansing. 
I was pleased to receive a card from Helen and WILLARD WAGNER from Phoenuc, Ariz, where they were spending some time this winter. I hope they saw our mutual nrammate JOE BRANNON there. It was also great to have a long letter from BOB CAPESIUS who lives at 2138 Warner Ave. in Chicago. Bob writes as well as ever despite his poor eyesight. Bob hears from GEORGE SCHEUER. Bob has five children and danced with a woman 97 years old at his daughter's wedding. Another welcome letter came from BILL BROWN who is still with Allis Chalmers in Milwaukee. Bill is very interested in the subject of Catholic schools. 
We talked to ART GLEASON when he and Freda were in Chicago to visit with their daughter, who is our goddaughter, and his children. Art practices law in Stow, Ohio. They have 10 grandchildren. They mentioned how much they enjoyed the '28 Class cocktail party last year at Notre Dame. While in Washington to receive an award for notable career service from Secretary of Labor Wirtz, 1 had dinner with Judge BILL JONES and Alice. Their daughter, Barbara is now with the Smithsonian Institute in Washington, DC. I accidentally saw an excellent article by LEO WALSH on the Michigan labor-management re­lations law, past and present, in the Fall 1966 issue of the Journal of Urban Law, Leo certainly knows his subject as he has been a member of the Michigan Labor Mediation Board for about II years. He does considerable labor arbitration work. 

Don't forget to order tickets for the Michigan State game on Oct. 28 so you will be there to join us at the 12th annual Class of '28 cocktail party after the game. These parties are becoming more popular with classmates each year. 
From our Class President BERN GARBER: ''Our thanks to the many who have donated to the Class Mass Fund. Checks for the fund may be sent to JOSEPH LANGTON, treas., 406 W. Madison, Ottawa, ID. 

AlUMNUS MAY 19«7 JUNE 
^^ . I ALUMNI 
Conqrats iNTHE 
^ 'NP//S 
Fred A. Joyce '23 was recently honored by Conrad N. Hilton for his 25 years of service as publicity director of the Hilton Hotel Corporation. Founder of Fred A. Joyce & Son, an advertising and public relations agency, he began handling the Hiltcm publicity long before the hotel chain was incorporated. Mr. Joyce is now retired but continues to serve the Hilton Corp. as consultant. 
Joseph A. AbboU '30 has been appointed director of public relations for the defense space group of International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation at Nutiey, N.J. In his new position he will be resjx>nsible for the development, implementation, monitoring and coordination of public-relations pror grams. Since 1955 he had served as director of public relations for ITT's Federal Lab­oratories. 
Rt. Rev. Ms3r. Anthony M. Gomes '38 will celebrate his 25th anniversary of ordinatirai to the priesthood June 4. He is pastor of Our Lady of the Angels in Fall River, Mass. 
James C. Walsh '39 has been named to a new­ly created position as vice-president for ad­ministration and control at the May Depart-. ment Stores Company of St. Louis. Formerly vice-president and treasurer, he will now be responsible for general management admin­istrative functions and all accounting, credit and control matters. Mr. Walsh, who held similar posts with the Hecht Company, has been with the May Stores since their merger with Hecht in 1959. 
Gene W. Duckworth '41 has been promoted to division vice-president and general mana­ger of the Lancaster, Pa., RCA industrial tubes division. He has been with RCA since 1947 and has various positions within the company. Prior to his new appointment he was manager of the microwave and power devices operations department 
Carence A. Imboden Jr. '42 has been named chief of the chronic respiratory disease con­trol program for the National Center for Chronic Disease Control. Formerly deputy chief of the US Public Health Service's heart disease control program, he has been nationally recognized for his work in the areas of cardio-pulmonary resuscitation tech­niques and specialized coronary care. 
DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT EDUCATION CENTER 
Gone are the days of the "shoot first, ask questions later" lawman. Today's crime fighters are contri­buting citizens as well as effective law enforcement officers, highly trained by men like Louis Radelet '39, MA '46 to meet the demands of contemporar)' citizen-police in­teraction. 
With his headquarters at Mich­igan State University's Center for Police and Community Relations, Lou equips police agencies through­out the countr)'—and the world— with the latest information on the best means of protecting citizens while maintaining good relations with the community they serve. 
Under his direction the Center offers law enforcement agencies sendees in research, publications, training and educational projects. In addition to its training programs in criminal justice, the Center provides direct consultation service to police authorities. Lou, editor of the National Newsletter to Police and Community Relations since 1956, directs the Center's publica­tion of educational literature and bulletins. 
Commimity relations work and 

Louis Radetet '39 
teaching have been the major forces in Lou's professional life, but he was not able to merge the two interests until his appointment as professor of law enforcement education at MSU. It was while at Notre Dame, however, that he began his teaching career as a graduate assistant in the depart­ment of sociology. Returning to the University in 1946 after mil­itary service, Lou earned his master's degree, his "ABDPhD"— all but dissertation doctorate—and b^a n his 16-year association wt h the National Conference of Chris­tians and Jews. 
While an instructor at the Uni­versity, Lou accepted a post wt h tiie national organization as re­gicMial director and executive direc­tor of the South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table of the NCCJ. In 1951, he left the world of academe temporarily to become divisional director in the NCCJ's Detroit office. The following year he ad­vanced to the national head­quarters in New York. 
His association with police edu­cation started 13 years ago when, as national director of the Com­mission on Community Organiza­tions for the NCCJ, he negotiated with MSU's School of Police Ad­ministration and Public Safety to initiate a program for the study of jiolice-community relations. To­day the Institute on Police and Community Relations which he founded has been incorporated as an integral part of the new Center's educational program. 

**These classmates attended the Center for Continuing Education's first seminar, The Popula­tion Problem,' an all-day program at the Waldorf and had lunch together: ED BOURKE, Dr. DAN BR.\DLEY and Win. GEORGE CROXGEYER, VIC FISCHER and BERN CAREER. Dan added many enlightening facts and comments. All recommended the seminar when it occun in other cities. 
**TOM BOV, my wife and I and a friend had an enjoyable dinner together one Sunday in February. Tom, anticipating our 40th Reunion, has offered to pay the tab for one of the mailings. He says his brother RAY is living in Haddonficld, 
N.J. and is doing well despite his emphysema. Tom would like to see GREG HOLBROOK and CLEM PATER at our 40th Reunion. Greg is a lawyer, has two married daughters and a son at St. Xavier's in Cincinnati. Clem is also a lawyer and lives in Hamilton, Ohio, home town of the Box's. Tom was planning a 31-day tour of the &flddle East this summer. He approved of allowing wives to attend the Reunion although he is 3 bachelor. 
"GEORGE CRONGEYER is finishing his first term on the ND Club of New York board of governors. Talking by phone in early March, L.\RRY CULLINEY said he hopes to return to FDIC duties by Afay 1. Larry had a serious attack of lobar pneumonia and w*as hospitalized Dec. 20-Feb. 8." 
CHRISTIE FLANAG.\N wrote that he had been to Fort Collins. Colo, to visit his daughter and son-in-law LIONEL BALDWIN, a Notre Dame graduate who is tlie Dean of the Col. of Engineering for Colomdo State U. Returning home Christie had dinner with ELMER WYNNE in Denver. Elmer is moWng to San Fiancisco with a larger field in the same capacity with Safeway Stores. Christie continues with the Christie Flanagan Co. in Port Arthur, Tex. which covers ship and forwarding agents, customhouse brokers and stevedores. 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 6415 N. Sheridan Rd., Apf. 1007 
Chicago, Illinois 60626 
We arc justly proud of our classmate RAY­MOND M. BIL­LIARD , deceased, 

1929 
former director of the Cook County Dept. of Public Aid, and his out­standing work ivith the underprivileged. In tribute to him and to carry on the work close to his heart, a memorial fund has been established. A quote of explanation follow-s: "To give sub­stance to this objective, a Alcmorial Fund has been established to the memory of Raymond Hilltard, the income and principal of the Fund to be used to assist underprivileged high school graduates who have received sendee from the Department of Public Aid and are scholarship recipients. Some of these forgotten children are unable to take adi'antagc of scholarships because of the lack of funds for essential necessities, such as transportation, lodging and clothing." 
The popular choice of date for our '29 after game get-together in 1967 is Oct. 28 when Alichigan State comes to ND. Perhaps the score ND 10-MSU 10 had something to do mth the selection of a date later in October. Our attend­ance in 1966 H'as the best in recent years. We anticipate a greater number of participants in '67. Make your ticket and lodging reservations now. 
Soon enough after St. Patrick's day I had the pleasure of a luncheon visit \rith JOE LENIHAN who continues as a \^cc-presidcnt of Fromm and Sichel Inc., 375 Park Ave., New York. The base of operations of the firm is now San Francisco. Joe is one of a few who continue in New Yoik; our Class president finds himself in the cnnable position of having some time to do the things that he fully enjoys. Their older daughter is married and lives only a short distance from Mom and Dad and 'j'oungcr sister. In mid-March on the annual Junior Parent weekend, BOB VOGEL­WEDE and his daughter Iklarianne, a graduate of St. Mary's, were campus \*isitors of junior mechanical engineer Tom Vogchvcde. Tom has accepted summer employment mth Detroit Edison Co. which has the reputation of having an excellent training program. 
BERNARD E. LOSHBOUGH, 225 Tech Rd., 
Thomburg Manor, Pittsburgh, continues to be 
honored for his woik in architecture and for his cine services. He continues as executive director of ACnON-Housing Inc., a private non-profit dWc organization ivorking through a comprehen­£ve program to assure that the people of Pitts­biurgh and Allegheny County are well-housed. Bernard has spent four years in India as repre­sentative of the Ford Foundation and the State Department. Since receiving his degree in archi­tecture at ND he has done graduate work in socio-economics at American U., Washington, DC. He is a lecturer on urban renewal and redevelop­ment at the Graduate School of Public and Inter­national Affairs, U- of Pittsburgh. The Greater Kttsburgh Board of Realtors has elected Bernard an honorary member. He is a member of the IHttsburgh Board of Public Education's Citizens Adnsory Committee and a member of the Board of Review, New Haven (Conn.) Community Renewal Program. He is on the board of directors of the National Housing Conference, Inc. and the National Assn. for Community Development, Washington, DC. Bernard plans to attend the 40th Reunion in June of '69. 
DON P. ALEXANDER, 14 E. EspanoU St., 
P.O. Box 1270, Colorado Springs, Colo., ^velcomcs a letter from his classmates. KENNETH I. HECK, formerly with Assocbtes Investment Co., South Bend, is now VP, Economy Finance Corp., cora­merdal loan div. He resides at 532 Wellington Rd., Indianapolis. His family numbers three children and six grandchildren. WILLL-VM "ILLE" BYRNE, 414 Dorsey Ave., Aptos, Calif., writes that he has retired from the San Francisco school dept. after 32 years of service as physical education teacher and coach of all sports. He is past president of the Native Sons of the Golden West and past president of the Northern California Alumni Assn. as well as president of Men's Ph>-si­cal Education Society. His two sons are married and each has two children. **Ille" has been under medical supervision for emphysema; we trust that he continues to improve in health. He has had some correspondence with LOUIS HANEY, who was a welcrome victor to the campus for the '66 after game get-together. 
EDMUND C. GARRTTY, whose business ad-
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
dress is 5850 S. Ashland Ave, Chicago, is presi­dent of Garrity Co., wholesaler of plumbins, heat­ing, air-conditioning products. Your secretary may be wrong, but he thinks that he has seen the Gar­rity trucks at the Argonne National Laboratory. Ed's home address is now 10312 S. Komensky St., Oak Lawn, III. Wc have an address change for Rev. JOSEPH F. VOORDE CSC, who is now at Aforcau House, 28 Zindabahar Lane, Dacca, £ . Pakistan. JIM CURRY's address snce last fall has been 34-2 Candlewood Lake Rd., New Milford, Conn. KARL JOHNSON'S mailing address is 111 Monument Circle, Room 707, Indianapolis. 
Holy Week Sennces at N D were again a high­light of the spring season (few of you have had the privilege of attending). You would have missed seeing Father Dorcmus, who is still on the campus, but wtiuld have seen Father LEO R. WARD, Father PETER HEBERT and of course our Father LOUIS THORNTON and Father JOSEPH GARVIN. Services were held in the Stepan Center on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. 
You may recall the unfortunate auto accident of Sept. 20, 1965 in which Father JOHN W. SCHEBERLE CSC was seriously injured. There is rome recent gaining of strength but Father Schcberle is still paralyzed and cannot talk or help himself. He is at Holy Cross House, Room 213, Notre Dome, Ind. 46556. His brother ART SCHEBERLE '28 lives at 19150 Grandview Ave., Apt. 6, Detroit, Mich. Art has been most helpful, partly in soliciting prayers especially novenas to Our Lady of Lourdes. 
We have some additional new addresses includ­ing JOE SMIETANKA, 33 N. Dearborn, Chicago; FRANK A. SMOLA, P.O. Box 3783 Merchandise Mart, Chicago; EDWARD L. BARRETT, 3215 Park Terr., Albany, Ore.; GERALD L. BILL, 976 Tarento Dr., San Diego, Calif.; Dr. ARTHUR 
W. FLEMING, 6705 Oglesby, Apt. 1907, Chicago; and WILLIAM T. DOYLE, 503 Pitney Place, Convent Station, N.J. 
If any of you '29ers out East attended a concert of the ND Band in late March or early April you saw my son Larry Stauder II '66 playing tympani. The tour covering 3,500 miles in two weeks in­cluded concerts in Netv Jersey, New York, Afainc, Montreal, Canada and Ohio. 
LARRY STAUDER Engineering BIdg., Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
1930 
DEVERE PLUNKEH O'Shaughnessy Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
1931 
JAMES T. DOYLE 1567 Ridge Ave., Apt. 308, Evanston, III. 60201 
A letter from Airs. Catherine Crowe whose husband N O R B CROWE died recently 
1932 
says in part, "Perhaps this sad news has already been reported to you but just in case it has not—Norb suffered a heart attack about one am. New Year's morning and had the fatal attack on January 13 at 8 pm* He was one who loved life and was looking forward to meeting all his pals and buddies at Notre Dame in June. He thoroughly enjoyed those Reunions and always made his plans well in advance. I*m so glad he was able to make the Monogram Dinner at ND last June. Please remember him in your prayers and think of him at the Reunion in June." Besides his wife Catherine, NORB is survived by tu'o daughters, one son, one sister and m brothers* 

1 recently had a visit with ART GLASOW in Lorain, Ohio where he is head of the Ohio employment office for the area. Art has not been back for a Reunion but plans to be there this year. He has three in college now. Tim and Mary at Ohio State, and Pat is at Alarquette U. Son Chris is still in high school. 
You have all received letters from IKE TERRY, our president, and others about the Reunion and you shall be receiving others. Much work is being done by Ike, CLIFF PRODEHL, Father JOHN WILSON and NAPPY NAPOLITANO and aU in the hope of having a record turnout for the 35th Reunion. RAY GEIGER is sending his almanac to each as a reminder. 
All this talk of the Reunion even shook loose a letter from BILL POWER as follows, **Your 1932 column in a recent issue of the ALUMNUS refers to a letter received from the Hon. Walter E. *Ike' Terry, distinguished member of the Wis­consin State Senate and president of the Class of '32 which is at the threshold of its 35th anniversary in June. If the dining halls plan to serve colored oleo during our Reunion, Ike should be warned in advance so he can bring along his own butter. Our president is a staunch supporter of the Wis­consin dairy farmer in the marble halls of the state capitol and offering oleo to Ike is aidn to offering the chairmanship of the Chase National Bank to Andrei Gromyko. 
**WcU, Jim, how about the rest of us? I am executive VP of the Wisconsin Development Credit Corp. in Milwaukee, live in the suburb of White­fbh Bay, married to the same giri for 27 years and father of four children. One daughter is a nun— a member of the Dominican order whose mother-house is in Sinsinawa, Wis. A member of Serra Club of Milwaukee, I am presently district gover­nor of Serra dist. 14 (Archdiocese of Milwaukee and Diocese of Green Bay.) John Litcher is VP of the American Appraisal Co. of Milwaukee, lives a few blocks from me and also belongs to Sena. Naturally we are making plans to attend the Reunion. We often sec TED HALPIN and I am sure he will be present at the Reunion. Recently I saw IVO UMHOEFER in Morshfield, Wis. where he heads a large manufacturing com­pany and is a director of a local bank. He hopes to make the Reunion. VERNE HUBER is a CLU and is general agent in Oshkosh for the Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. He, too, hopes to make the Reunion. 
"Now for some recollecdons of 35 yean ago which could be entitled *I Remember When.' There were no corporation recruiters on campus in 1932—the only demonstrators on any college campus were those loaned by the auto sales agency, cigarettes were two packs for a quarter, the street car, aside from walking, was the principal means of transportation to and from South Bend, chew­ing tobacco was available in the cafeteria. If you attended the early matinee at the P^c e you were only charged 35 cents for a full vaudeville bill plus a feature movie backed by an orchestra in the pit, prohibition was here to stay 'because it was in the Constitution,* N D football was beginning to decline following ROCK's death a year previous. President Hoover was in deep trouble, a big weekend was a visit to Chicago and dancing to Coon-Sanders orchestra at the Black-hawk, two large oceans separated us from any possible involvement in Europe or Asia, the ND-Army game would go on forever and always in Yankee Stadium, the uniform of the day was a pullover sweater, corduroy trousers that hung loosely and field shoes. If you shopped around you could find a speakeasy putting out pitchers of beer for 40 cents, the commanding general of the US Army wore cavalry boots and spurs, out-of-town games on the Gridgraph in the gym were as exciting as watching the game today on TV, by the Grace of God and favor of the Apostolic See a few students might be permitted to own and drive automobiles while still in school. 
"The above is just a sample of hundreds of *I Remember When' and I am sure when the gentle­men of '32 reassemble on campus in June they can make their personal contributions to the list." Thanks, Bill, for a wonderful letter. 
Among recent changes of addresses are JOHN 
RUSH to 1007 Dudler Ave., Udca, N.Y. SUM) JOHN VOSS to 4313 Roseland, Houston. Tex. See you at the Reunion! 
JAMES K. COLLINS 2982 Torrington Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio 44122 
We learned with deep regret of the recent death of Dr. LOUIS M.FOLTZ, CHARLES 
1933 
J. IklEDLAND and EDMUND A. SARGUS. Dr. Foltz died in Louis­ville on Jan. 14. Charley !lfedland died in January in Pittsburgh and Ed Sargus died in Bellaire, Ohio on Mar. 4. To the femiilies of all^ wie extend our sympathy and prayers. 
"In ^radisum Deducant Te Angeli." 
EDWARD W. DAILEY of Burlington, Iowa recently ccmipleted his term as president of the Iowa Sute Bar Assn. Ed has a busy practice and an active home life centered around his U children, nine of whom are still at home. He hears frequently from Father JIM DONNELLY and inquired about JIM ROSS. Jim is a tax counsel to General Dynamics Corp. and resides in suburban Frecport, N.Y. We see Jim frequently at Alumni affairs in New York. 
PHIL FAHERTY and his \rife Rita journeyed up from Lambertville, N.J. on Feb. 25 to attend the N D Seminar conducted by the Center for Continuing Education at -Jie Waldorf. The Class of '33 was wcU-representcd at the seminar with SAM HYDE and his wife, GEORGE ROHRS and Father CHARLES SHEEDY, who was one of the moderators of the program, all in attendance. Phil pracrtices law in Lambertville and is very active on CHARLEY CONLEY*s Alumni com­mittee that conducts interviews of applicants for admisuon to N D from the greater Philadelphia area. Sam Hyde is with American Can Co. in New York. All have reported that the seminar was excellent. 
Wc have been recently advised by the Alumni Office that Father CLEVE W. CAREY is now stationed in Los Angeles and his new address is 4072 Beveriy Rd., Los .Angeles 900OI- and that WILLIAM L. GOLDEN's new address is 80 Ikfaplecliff, Avon Lake, Ohio 44012. JOSEPH McCIBE still resides in Evanston and is with the public relations and > ad\-ertising department of Kempner Ins. Co., Chicago. 
PHILIP MEISTERIIEIN is in the paper business in Chicago. JEROME MESERVEY is superinten­dent of the spedal risk dept. of Great American Ins. Co. in Chicago. D.ANIEL MOORE JR. is with Wilcox Manufacturing Co., a Chicago firm engaged in the manuifacture. of gaskets for power plants and oQ refineries. &LARTIN MORAN is an attorney in charge of the casualty dept. of the well-known meat packing firm of Wilson & Co. in Chicago. THADDEUS MORAWSKI resides in Lockport, HI. and is a trial attorney vnth. offices in Chic^o. 
EMMET IkfURPHY is an asst. rjperintendent and prindpal of school district 87 in Bellwood area of Chicago and resides in Oak Park, Hi. PATRICK AfURPHY is staff engineer with American Oil Co., Whiting, Ind. JOHN POYN­TON resides in Glenview, III. and is ah engineer associated %vtih Michael McDermott & Co. in Chicago. CHARLEY CONLEY, who is chairman for our 35tb Retmion, reminds us the Reunion *s but a short year away. He would welcome your views on plans and arrangements. HAROLD POHLMEYER who lives in Mexico, Mo., wxote recently to tell us that hb son Michael is now a freshman at ND. Harold is controller for Kaiser Refractories in the central US. 
JOHN A. HOYT, JR. Gillespie & O'Connor, 342 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 10017 
1934 
EDWARD F. AAANSFIELD 523 W. Hillsdale, San Mateo, Cal. 94403 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
I was hoping that, as a result of my "maid­column in the March-April issue, I

1935 
would easily be able 

to fill this column with communications from ihc Class. I \\-3s panicularly hopeful that they would be forthcoming from the fifteen '35ers mentioned in the column who have been notable by their absence in the ALUMNUS and at Reunions for some years. However, **duc to circumstances beyond tlie control of the Alumni Office" the March-April issue has just been mailed at this writing. However, fellows, don't let tliat deter you from confirming in writing that you are still around, and providing us with information about yourselves. If you still have the Marcli-April issue you can make it eas>* by using tlie information card insert on page 30. If not, I will willingly accept the back of an old envelope. 
The nucleus of yt>ur South Bend Reunion com­mittee attended a meeting called by P.A,UL FERGUS a few weeks aco to cover many subjects on your behalf. You sliould be hearing shortly from Paul regarding the Georgia Tech game in -Atlanta on Nov. 18, and the Miami mglit game on Nov. 
24. He will fill you in on the plans being made. You will also hear from Paul about that nasty subject of inflating the exchequer with a "kilt\'" for our 35th Reunion. As the monsignor of our parish says every other Sunday, "tliis is a subject we don't like to discuss," but it is ncccssar>" for sur\'ival. 
Due to the reasons stated above, understandably I have no direct messages from any of tlic '35ers for this issue. However, via the .Alumni Ofiice we learned that EMIL GERVASIO was recently the subject of a profile in his diocesan paper The Beacon. Emil, who is now a special investigator for the Morris County (N.J,) prosecutor, ^vas cited for outstanding work in a large number of lay organizations. .Among others, he is a member of executive committees of the diocesan Sena Club and the diocesan Council of Catholic Men, presi­dent of the St. ifargaret's Nocturnal Adoration Society, co-chairman of the lay retreat movement for the diocese, president of the diocesan Holy Name Federation and executive member of tlic state coordinating committee of Holy Name Societies. 
In the last issue we mentioned ANTHONY KUH.ARICH's promotion to chief probation officer for the Northern Indiana Dist. Tlie ink was hardly dr>' before Anthony appeared again in the local paper, stating that he has been appointed commissioner of the Dept. of Correction by Gov. Branigin. In other words, after a few short weeks he look his new boss's job. Tony admits to seeing "How to Succeed in Business Without Really Tr>ing" about five times! Obviously he learned a lesson from Robert iforsc. The word is out that Gov. Branigin just had the windou-s in his office painted black! 
The last AhVMXUS reported the death of ANTHONY' MULVANEY and, on behalf of the Class, we wish to extend our deepest sympathy to Mrs. Mulvaney. Following our practice of many years, Paul Fergus wTote a personal letter to Mrs. ilulvaney, and a Mass %\'as said for him at ND. 
To keep the ball rolling in an attempt to dig out missing '35ers, We also would like to Iiear from the following: PHILIP P. ARNHEITER, JOSEPH F. BECEK. JOSEPH A. BUCCI, VICTOR S. CARTON. LEWIS C. CREGO, ENHLIO F. DELIA. THOMAS J. FOLEY JR., JOHN D. HEYWOOD. RICHARD J. SHAMLA, LEONARD W. SIEKEMEVER and FREDERICK 
W. WEIDNER. Even though we mentioned specific names in the last two issues from whom wc are soliciting correspondence we are not dis­criminating against some 450 other '35ers from ivlioin *ve would like to hear. If only two percent would write each month wc could cro\vd the Classes of '34 and '36 out of the ALUMNUS in the same %%'ay that we outdo them in our Reunions! 
WILLIAM F. RYAN 1620 E. Washington Ave., South Bend, Ind. 40017 

1936 
LARRY PALKOVIC 301 Mechanic St., Orange, N.J. 07050 
LOYOLA OF THE SOUTHS NEW VICE-PRESIDENT 

Since Vatican II, talk about tlie increasing role of laymen has be­come commonplace. But the actual appointment of a lay administrator at a Catholic university is still news. Dr. John F. Christman '44 made headlines in March when he was named a vice-president at Loyola University of New Orleans. 
The new VP for academic affairs is the first lajinan to hold the post and only the second lay vice-presi­dent in Loyola history. (Donald Ross '53, who serves as VP for public relations and development at Loyola, was the first.) Dr. Christman views his new post as a dual challenge to his roles as la}'man and educator. "There are too few really good Catholic uni­versities and it is the responsibility of the lay community and the religious community to see this changed. Certainly involving lay members in the administrative affairs of the university is one step in the right direction." 
Dr. Christman is well qualified as an educator to meet the challenge of molding a great Catholic uni­versity. Earning his bachelor's degree in chemistry from Notre Dame in 1944, he went on to take two master's degrees—^in chemistry from Indiana University and in bacteriology from the University of Tennessee. He received his PhD in microbiology from the latter in­stitution in 1950. 
An adoptive Southerner, Dr. Christman began his academic 
We arc right down to the wire now for the 30th REUNION on June 9, 10 and U. 
1937 
The bombarding of 
Ine3i^ases to you Wc hope has paid off to tlic point where you have finalized yom: plans to be with tlic gang of '37! ! ! ! ! 
After Father JOYCE CSC leading off the parade of writers, wc went directly to the advertising and press corps of *37 and hit >-ou with PAUL FOLEY, chairman of the board of McCann-Erickson. N'YC (flannel belt area) and then J.ACK GILLESPIE, press rclauons with Mobil, NYC. (The gas company with the colors in its name and not in the tank.) Wc tried to have ZEKE CACKLEY (formerly wth ALUMNUS, Foundation) but he was too taken up with the new school he is plugging for in Center Valley, Pa., Allentown 
John Chrisintan '44 
career as assistant professor of bio­
chemistry at Louisiana State Uni­
versity and was named to a full 
professorship there in 1966. The 
recipient of a visiting research 
fellowship at the Oak Ridge Na­
tional Laboratories, he spent a year 
at the biology division engaged in 
enzyme utilization research. 
Taking sabbatical leave from 
LSU in 1964, he accepted a post 
as associate program director for 
student and cooperati\'e programs 
Col. of St. Francis dc Sales. Thb is a new school 
opened in 1965, four years liberal arts. In f:asc 
some of you lads arc looking for a **ncw school" 
here's one. 
Letter from Father BOB LOCHNER CSC, St. Ed's HS Cleveland; after giving me the needle on Christmas cards, etc. he advises that JUNE 9-10-11 is in the book for a trip to ND. Father JOE ENGLISH, MarjknoII, has checked into the States and will have enough leave time in civiliza­tion to be with us ako. Many of you get Father Joe's Southern Cross. Next we should hear from Father BILL KUNTZ of Iowa and wc will liavc the Clergy- in line. 
JOE SANCULIUS, transferee from Chicago to Bay City, Mich., will be on hand and looking for CLYDE BOWERS, JOE SCHILLI.NG, BEN SCHERER and TONY O'BOYLE. Reports have JOE O'NEIL JR. as co-owner of the new California professional soccer club, known as the "Clippers." This is part of the new 10-team League. 
BERNIE NIEZER is drumming up some actirity reports that JOE SHIELY, president of J. L. Shiely Co., St. Paul, will be there, but regrets news that BILL LYNCH can't make it because of a wedding in the family, Bill Jr. M.\TT MacINERXEY should shake him loose from this obligation. Send a prox>*. Bill. I mentioned Niezcr's grey locks instead of the blonde of *37, now he admits to a son Stephen at St. John's in CoHcge­villc, Minn. Getting Benedictine education. AL SCHWARTZ and BILL KIRK are also handling the dnun in the SW. 
I always regret this part of the column. Please remember in your prayers HANK POJAL\N and 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 

FOR ACADEMIC AFFAIRS 
with the National Science Founda­tion. As program manager he directed colleges and universities in introducing new courses and sci­ence instruction at the elementary and secondary school levels. 
Last September he joined the faculty of Loyola as a professor of biochemistry and was also named director of academic grants and contracts. His duties in this posi­tion were to provide a central bureau of information on available sources of support for faculty re­search in all disciplines. Seven months later he was named an executive administrator. 
Speaking of his new post as lay vice - president. Dr. Christman notes: "I believe I can offer a set of different attitudes to those held by the members of the administra­tion who belong to the religious community. This does not mean that our goals are different. Far from it. But the ideas and con­cepts that I can bring to the dis­cussion table result from a far different academically and socially developed being." 
Dr. Christman views the so-called secularization of Catholic universities as a move away from progress. It is his belief that the Church must build a strong higher educational system with institutions that are both good universities and Catholic by nature. With la)'men like John Christman involved in the administration, such a goal seems one step closer. 
JOHNNY GENEGAL who have passed au-ay since our last news item. 
The local committee, JERRY CLAEYS, KARL KING, HARRY KOEHLER and Father JOYCE have been meeting regularly and will have things in tip-top shape l:or your arri\'al. I'm not doing justice to the local committee as I know there arc others taking tlleir share of the job. TOM C.-\RNEY, our honorary .-Mumni pres., will be there. The fund has started for the Reunion and a big kickoir came from ED G.ARVEY, West­chester, 111. included in a Christmas card and same $$ has been forwnrded to the local committee. Many thanks, ED. The trcasur>" is now in the black to begin with. It's these surprises in the Ahimni mail that keep one working in this division. 
SO — SO — SO — the da>-s are approaching. "NO" isn't the answer. See you — JUNE 9, 10 and U at the "U". 
JOSEPH P. QUINN 
P.O. Box 275, Lake Lenape, Andover, N.J. 07821 

1938 
BURNIE BAUER 1139 Western Ave., South Bend, Ind. 46625 

From Great Falls, Mont., where the tax collector now reaches EDWARD M. TOBIN, 
1939 
comes the following 
news item: "For the past year and a half I have been engineering manager for the Boeing Co. My proudest hour occurred w'hen our oldest daughter took her first vows in the Holy Name Order. She is now at Fort Wright Col. in Spokane." From the Alumni Office it was learned that EDWARD 
M. SADOWSKI will serve as the new product manager of potentiometer operations of Globe-Union's Centralab Electronics Div. Ed has been with the firm since 1961 and last year was named to head integrated management information and control systems. We extend proper Class congratu­lations to both of these men. 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, secretary of the Class of '28, w*as most kind in calling our attention to the fortunes of LOUIS A. RADELET. Lou is pro­fessor and Center director of the National Center in Police and Community Relations at the School of Police Administration and Public Safety at Michigan State U. Lou and his lovely wife are the proud parents of seven children. (He should be a good contact for Michigan Statc-Notrc Dame tickets should genial BOB CAHILL fail you.) 
To JOSEPH L. ADRIAN and his wife, sincere s>-mpathy in their loss of their son Lt. JOSEPH 
D. '64 who was killed in action in Vietnam on ^larch 12. Please remember him in your Classes and pr^iyers. 
Though our mailbag is light, the following address changes will be of interest: EDWIN O'CO.NNOR ("The Last Hurrah," etc.), 10 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass. 02116; CHARLES 
F. O'.MALLEY. 3426 Vail .Ave. S.E., Albuquerque, N.^L 87106; JOHN A. STUPP (STUPKIEWICZ), 334 Longacre Rd.. Rochester, N.Y. 14621; CHESTER P. SADOWSKI. 1188 Arizona Ave., Fort Lauderdale 33312; ROBERT R. LAMB, 1903 Karen Dr., Fort Lauderdale 33304; WILLIAM P. C.\STLEM.\N JR., 705 Midland Tower Bldg., Midland, Tex. 79701; JOSEPH F. DR.W, 447 Countrj- Club Dr. N.E., Warren, Ohio 44484; EDWARD C. STROH JR., 4901 Third Ave., Altoona, Pa. 16602; THOM.-\S J. MALLOY, 45 
N. Findhiy St., York, Pa. 17402; EDWARD M. STUBBLEFIELD, 2500 Paris Angel Dr., LaCrosse, Wis. 54601; Dr. RALPH F. WACHTER. 310 College Prkw>-., Frederick, Md. 21701; STANLEY 
R. SHEER.\N, 11 Joanna Way, Summit N.J. 07901; WILLI.-\M P. CALL.AHAN JR., P.O. Box 2180, Wichita, Kan. 67201; LOUIS G. C.-\C­CHIOLI, MD, 202 W. Howell St., Hartwoll, Ga. 30&13; ALEC R. SHELLOGG, 493 Hillgrccn Dr., Beverly Hills, CaliL 90212. 
JOSEPH E. HANNAN 
1804 Greenwood Dr., 
South Bend, Ind. 46614 
At this point many of you might want a new Class secretary. I re­ceived a very interest­
1940 
ing letter protesting the ALUMNUS article which described the first inter­collegiate hockey activity at Notre Dame. In our daj-s we did Iiavc a hockey team which was more than intramural—they played other institutions of higher education. Your secretary, who receives vcrj- few letters, is unable to locate this particular one and tlius begs your indulgence for the poor job. If some of tlic hockey team members uill for^i-ard comments we shall pursue the subject during the summer. 
JUAN E. CINTRON and his wife recently celebrated their silver wedding anniversary with ^lass and a renewal of their vows in the Crypt of the Sacred Heart Church on campus. He is currently president of the BcndLx Subsidiary in Mexico Cit>-. BENEDICT F. MARNOCH, man­agement consultant in Alcridian, Miss., was chosen to attend Emor>' U.*s advance management pro­gram. The six-Week session was taught by faculty members from Emory, Har\*ard, the U. of Santa Clara and Columbia. JIM DONOGHUE informed me that JOHN HUSSEY had a ver>* serious opera­tion, but is making good progress and is now at home, 929 Sheridan Rd.. Wilinctte, III. Our Class President JOHN HENEBRY is now president of North American Aluminum Corp. in Kalamazoo, Alich. 
DICK AMES reported that he finally managed a visit to the campus and also had a pleasant get-together with MIKE CORG.-\N. In one of the recent issues it was reported that DICK BURKE was hospitalized. He is back at work and feeling better. FRED STUBBINS moved from Hau-aii to Hacienda, Calif, and then to 4776 Garfield Ave., La Mesa, CaUf. JOHN *TED" BRUSH remains in Milwaukee, Wis., but now at 3718 N. 92nd St. JOE THESING remains on the West Coast, now in Fullcrton, Calif. CARL QUINN has moved from Elmhurst, III. to Chcckerberry Lane, Hop­kinton, N.H. Lt. Col. CH.ARLES KELLY has been transferred to Hq. AFSC Box 404 Andrews AFB, Md. BILL KELLEHER left Ohio and is notv in Royal Oak, Mich, at 1614 N. Connecticut Ave. 
It was my understanding that our four Class vice-presidents ^vould ferret out area news for this column. Will BOB L.AMBERT, JIM METZLER, W-ALT FLEMING and DICK LYNG sec what they can do to rcacti\'ate some Class interest. Remember, men, in three short years it will be Reunion time. 
ROBERT G. SANFORD 233 W. Central Ave. Lombard, III. 60148 
1941 
JAMES F. SPELLMAN Spellman & Madden, 342 Madison Ave., Nev/ York, N.Y. 10017 
The Reunion Commit­tee has been busily working on plans to get maximum partici­
1942 
pation in our Reunion 
next month. If you haven't been contacted—the 
Kicfc-Off time is Friday, Noon, June 9 with 
registration, golf. Class Dinner and Class elections. 
Saturday, June 10—Mass, Class picture, luncheon 
with President Hesburgh and more golf. The 
Annual Alumni Banquet is Saturday evening. 
CHARLIE BUTTERWORTH is retired from the Air Force and working with the European Exchange S>'stem at Torrejon AFB, Spain. He and Helen Jo have six children and live in Madrid. Their eldest boy is a frosh at St. Edu'ard's U. in Austin, Tex. Their address is Box 1323, APO, New York 09283. 
We regret to advise the passing of BILL HOYNE of Da>-lon, Ohio on March 4 and D.AN 
M. RY.AX of East St. Louis, HI. on Jan. 21. 
WILLIAM M. HICKEY 
P.O. Box 8640A, Chicago, 
III. 60680 
1943 
JACK WIGGINS 
5125 Briggs Ave., 
LaCrescenta, Cal. 91014 
This probably will be the shortest 1944 Class neu3 report since the inception of this Class 
1944 
into the ALUMNUS al­most 23 years ago. The reason for this brevity is obvious—NO MAIL. In the past two months, only two individuals have taken time to contact the Class secretary. To those two thoughtful souls a most appreciative thank you I To the remaining hundrnls, a pleading, pulsating request, please write!!! You '44crs arc the Class. You '44cni are the news- The success or failure of the 1944 Class news desperately depends on YOU. 

Death once again has come to a member of our Class. Almost a year has passed since DON" BIRREN died as a result of an automobile acci­dent in the Ludington, Mich, area in mid-July, 1966. The sad news was received recently from his wife Dclphine who, together with sbc children, survives him. Don started at XD with the '44 Class but, due to the War, was graduated in '47. He was art editor of the Scholastic, did post-grad work with Mr. Kormendi and received his master's in sculpture from Syracuse U. where he studied with Ivan Mcstrovic, who later %v-as in residence at ND. To Mrs. Birrcn and her children, who live in Morton Grove, UK, heartfelt s>Tnpathy and humble prayers of all remaining '44crs. S>-mpathy also is extended to GEORGE EUSTERMAN upon the death of his father. 
JOSEPH N.-VSH and JOSEPH DILLON both were named as directors of South Bend's American Bank and Trust Co. at the bank's annual share­holders meeting. Joe Dillon abo is a director of the Upson Co. of New York and is \'ice-prcsident and secretary of Tri-Cily Rentals, Inc., South Bend. Joe Nash is a member of the National Assn. of Cosmetology Schools and of the Ethical Beauty Schools Assn. A surprising development occurred. CLEM CONSTANTINE, the deep-rooted resident of New Hampshire, Manchester to be exact, moved to Texas. His new address is 3529 Wren Ave., Fort Worth, Tex. Wonders never cease! 
A welcome letter was received from the Dubuque, Iowa flash—OZZIE DOL.AN. The Dolan clan, Ozzie and Margie and their nine children plus a friend or two of the younger generation, had a tremendous camping \'acation in the 1966 summer at Cass I-ake, Minn. All but the youngest two children are in scliool. These latter two, Barbara and Amy, arc their mother's best helpers or did he say most trying testers? Recently Ozzie attended a tri-state area, in and around Dubuque, ND gathering. He claimed lack of space prevented his mentioning all the '44crs he saw on that outing. 

Why don't all you '44crs who just now^ com­pleted reading this highly interesting and en­lightening column immediately write your Class secretary and point-blank tell him what an excellent job he did. Don't forget to sign your name. Otherwise, in future columns, there would be even less names than in this one. That could be quite tragic. YOU arc the news. Let your Class secretary in on the gossip. Without your cooperation there is little need to continue this column. Without doubt, the Class of '44 is the most unnewsworthy Class ever to matriculate at ND- Can YOU prove otherwise? 
JOSEPH A. NEUFELD P.O. Box 853, Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
Congratulations to Dr. BILL KELLOW on his being named dean and VP of Jefferson Medi­
1945 
cal Col., Philadelphia. Bill has been dean at Hahnemann Medical School. One of our **big spenders" reports in from Daven­port, Iowa inquiring how we spend our Class dues—BIG BILL McNEIL. It is kind of tough pajing for a new^ "Caddy" each year—Bill is still single and an arehitect. His buddy BOB O'TOOLE reports in from the Windy City that JOHNNY VAUGHN passed through Chicago last summer. Bob sa^'s Vaughn is still a big eater—what else could you expect after working the "Padre Tables'* in the dining hall? The only one that fared better was JIM RETTER in the Presbytery. 
JOHN LYONS is practicing law in So. Norwalk, Conn. John got his LLB from Yale, married with three daughters and is a director of First Federal Savings & Loan Assoc, of Norwalk. Ruth and JOHN MEYER have a daughter Nancy a sophomore at Mt. St. Joseph's in Cincinnati; a son Leo a freshman at Xavier, also in Cincinnati; and another son and daughter still at home in Indianapolis. John is secretary of the Inter-State Foundry Co., Inc. 
JIM O'CONNOR is VP and general manager of lllagnet Wire Div. of Essex Wire, Ft. Wayne. Jim and Audrey have four children. FRANK PENDARUIS is district operations superintendent for Humble Oil at Rosenberg, Tex. Two boys make up Frank and Edna's family. RUDY and all the ANDERSONS reported in from a new address in Jersey—14 Ridge Rd., Gladstone. Rudy sees DAN O'CONNELL. BILL WADDINGTON, 

and BILL CLEMENCY on a regular basis and aU REQUIESCANT IN PACE are talking up the 25th in '70. 
It's always a sad duty to report deaths of our Our 25th chairman, Harry Walters, is looking classmates, and this time it's doubly sad for two for ideas. .. . 

men have left this life for—wie pray—the eternal Really enjoyed the long message from Dr. 

joy of the next. 

FR-ANK MARTIN' S better half, Barbara, fining 
ED CROWE died March 2 in Oak F^k, Hi., 

us in on '66 in their household. It was a real big 
and wc only recently learned of the July 14, 1966 year—Kathy graduating from high school. National death of DON BIRREN in Kforton Grove, 111. In Honor Society, a Regents Scholarship and off to your tiames we have enrolled both in the Associa­Georgetown U- Daniel—their 11th aniving in tion of the Providential Proposal at Notre Dame, September; Terry fracturing seven vertebrae in a where they vrXl be remembered until the end of fall from a tree; their house partially burning time, and'expressed solace to their widou-s. 

douii; and much, much more. \Vish all the Vfives Just at presstime I received an acknowledgment would pass along info to their old Alums. 
from Pat Crowe and the children, and Dclphine Birrcn was kind enough to send the following 

FRANK M. LINEMAN 
letter: "Thank you for the very kind letter and enrollment in Don's name. As you WTOte, it is

G.E. Co., 600 Main St., 
hard to stir up memories, but I know there are Johnson City, N.Y. 13790 old friends of Don's that will be interested in the details of his most untimely death. We were at the Birren summer home in Ludington, Mich, for our annual \'acation with our six children at the time. Don had gone on a golf outing for the day .with MORG C.ARTIER. They were coming home in separate cars with &forg not far behind. It u-as dark and about a mile from the cottage a 
1946 
deer evidently froze in the headlights and, to avoid it, Don had to swer\-c which caused him to 60 Robin Place, Old Greenwich, hit a culvert marker. **He was thrown from the car—cause of death 
PETER P. RICHISKI 
Conn. 06870 
was a skull fracture—and lived to receive the Last Rites at the hospital. I feel grateful for that and also that Morg Vk'as on the scene within a few minutes, which meant that Don didn't suffer long. The whole bit Is ironic in that Don wasn't a 

golfer and that in the 20 years tliat we'd been married and spending our vacations there he never THIS IS m 
1947 
went out without me or the children. It's less than a month now 'til Reunion time, 
**We miss him terribly and hope that time will so it's my last chance to urge your attendance. If help. Fortunately the kids keep me busy and are you're planning to be here, it will be a pleasiux a great consolation. The oldest boy Peter 19 went to see you again and visit \wth you; if you're on into the Air Force in August and b now* in the fence, let this gust blow you over on the Biloxi in electronics school. Dave, 17 Is a senior "for sure" side; and if ^-ou definitely can't make at Notre Dame High in Niles, 111. Julie 14 is a It, you'll be missed and in our thoughts. freshman and then follows .Andrea, 12 and Susie, 
r' 
ALUMNI IN THE 
Congrats NEWS 

Charles Owens Jr. '48 has been named presi­dent of the Ames Co. of Elkhart, Ind., a division of Miles Laboratories, Inc. He has been with the company since 1951 when he joined as professional-service representative. As president of Ames he will be resjjonsible for worldwide operations of the manufac­ture of chemical, electronic and nuclear-measuring devices. 
Joseph M. Mengden '49 has been elected a senior vice-president of the First of Michigan Corporation in Detroit. He was also named a voting stockholder and member of the op­erating committee of the stock and bonds underwriting company. Formerly vice-presi­dent of the National Bank of Detroit, he also served as manager of the corporate and mu­nicipal bond department and bank invest­ment division. 
ALUMNUS MAY \967 JUNE 

Harold W. Unger '49 has been appointed director of research and development of the plastic container division of Continental Can Co. in the Chicago area. Formerly manager of research for the company's white cap di­vision, he joined Continental in 1949 as a chemical engineer. He holds a number of patents for container closures which he de­veloped while with the company. 
Frank J. Spaniel Jr. '50 has been elected vice-president for manufacturing for Penco Prod­ucts, Inc. Formerly plant manager of the steel storage equipment manufacturer in Oaks, Pa.j he joined Penco's parent com­pany, Alan Wood Steel, in 1957. He was named assistant chief industrial engineer at Alan Wood Steel before being promoted to a managership at Penco. 
Patrick J. Barrett '51, Evergreen Park, 111., has been named vice-president and treasurer of Aldens, Inc. A certified public ac­countant, he has held positions as tax depart­ment manager, assistant secretary and chief accountant with the firm. He joined the staff of the Chicago-based merchandiser in 1957 after serving as senior accountant with Arthur Andersen & Co. 
J

ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
I recentlf xecdved a notice fram the ALom-Kvs tiiat "the snow h md6ng and it is a
1948 
wre ngn of spring", 
so oa this first day of qirin$ while I am snowed in and cannot get to work I will gather the few mites that I have and try to make the ^Vadlinr for the spring issue whidh is actually today. 
Last week we had a local Alumni meetix^ to plan for the new fund raising drive that the Notre Dame Foundation wil] :qionsor this bSL At the meeting genial GENE ANGUILLI and LEO COSTELLO cbew key pdatibns for the drive nnce they are both big money men to begin with, one beii^ a securities counsellor and the other a bank VP. I told the assembly that I wouldn't be much of a help in getting money from the Alnmni because in my experience as a Class secretary, cannot even get postcards that cost less than a nickel, let alone get big donations. 
I just returned from a lO^xmntry tour of the Caribbean and the Central and South American area. While in Panama I tried to catch up with LARRY ROMAGOSA but he was at one cad of the g(Jf course and I must Iiave been at the other during the local IW-Am Tournament. 
From the Alumni Office I have heard that JAMES BARK JR. has been appointed product manager for dry deanii^ products with the Dow Chemical Co. solvents sales group. He had been assistant market manager for dry cleaning solvents. BILL DIOGUARDI, Montdair (N.J.) CoL's ve­teran baseball coach and well-known basketball and football official, is beginning his second year as supervisor of officials for the Atlantic Coast Foot­ball League. 
I recnved a nice letter from JIM WEBB telling me how much he enjoys this column and how he looks forward to each issue to hear about the old gang at ND. It has sort of snapped him out of his lethargy and he wants to help the column along by sending in some nc%vs about himself and others wnth whom he has been in contact in the recent past. I appreciate his comments and wish a few more of you guys would do the same. Jim writes that since he is living in Jackson, IkCch. he does get to South Bend quite often on business and also to take in some of the fall ffxitball week­ends. In September he met with three successful barristers from our Class, namely ERNIE FLECK from Bismarck, NJ>., CHUCK VANNADA from Lowell, Ind. and AL SPAHN of Elkhart who was the local host for the get-together. Jim is purchas­ing manager for Spartan Electronics in Jackson and had been with RCA for 13 years before joining Spartan four years ago. The Webbs have. two boys and two girls—the eldest giri wiU be starting college in the fall. 
As we get into the home stretch for this column, wc will list the highlights of the change oi address notifications that we have received ance the last ccdumn was submitted. DAN HESTER has moved from Alhambra, Calif, to 8832 Greenwood Ave., San Gabriel; RICHARD JOOSTEN has moved from Gary, HI. to Westfield, N.J.; BILL STOLZE has moved from St. Louis to North Syracuse, N.Y.; GENE BOLLT is now in Huntington Beach, Calif.; JEAN BRAUWEILER is now in Arlington Hnghts, 111.; and we don't know where FRANK TARLE­TON is as mail sent to him in Hot Springs, Azk., comes back '^unclaimed." 
This is about it for now. Only a few more issues before the 20th Reunion (Brawl) rolls around. I know GERRY HEKKER and a lot of you other guys are looking forward to this one because the 15th was only an "in-between" and it b the 20th and 23th that really bring out the best. We're going to need someone to help plan it since our two former stal%varts, JOHN LAUGHLIN and BILL BONWICH, are no longer on campus. Anyone in the neighborhood interested in taking it on? It's not much of a job, just be sure we get the hats and a room to hang them in. Oh yes, also to get the "cider" franchise and handle the popcorn. Lookin* to hear from y'all. 
GEORGE J. KEENAN 177 Rolling Hills Rd., Clifton, N.J. 07013 
1949 
LEO L WESLEY 155 Driftwood Lane, Rochester, N.Y. 14617 

10 who arc in grade school. Then there's Don Jr. who is four and my shadow now. He's great company for me. David wU enter Loyola U. this fall and hopes to pull his grades up so that he can try for Notre Dame as a sophomore. Don's love for ND rubbed off on him and we hope that he'll make it. . . ." 
Together with our other deceased mates, Don and Ed will be especially memorialized at our Reunion Class Afass on June 10. I hate to have to keep bringing this up, but the Class Afass fund is low and I simply remind you all that none of us arc immortal. If you want to put it in the realm of self-interest, the buck or more you can Sparc now insures your own spiritual support uiicn Gabriel tootles taps for you. 
LETTERS Recent mail drops have deposited notes from MIKE Y.ARBENET and LOU TWARDZIK; the former is a CPA and part-time teacher at Gannon Col. in Erie, Pa., the latter an associate professor of park and recreation administration at Michigan State, East I^nsing. "Expect to get up to the Reunion," Mike writes. **Have two children— Doug is 18 and Carol, 14. Manage to play a good deal of tennis and golf—broke 80 this past summer. It's been 10 years since seeing the campus; appears that it's changed some since then. . . ." 
Lou reports: **Your column in the Jan.-Fd>. issue of the ALUMNUS gave me a start as I went back to look at it on my desk. It was folded to page 29 and showed my boss. Dr. John Hannah, president of Michigan State, in a picture directly above your column with his finger raised. It seemed a little weird. Only when I turned fiver to page 28 did I realize he was not pointing at me for not having written to you, but more than likely to Father HESBURGH who was sitting next to Airs. Hannah. It took all of that to pry me loose from the ranks of the reluctant Alumni. I've been here since 1960 and have a beautiful mfe and two beautiful daughters. Have grown weary to the point of barely recovering from one MSU­N D game to the next. . . .'* 
BRAVO BOSWELL! 
Eariier we told you about NELSON (JACK) BOSWELL's syndicated five-minute radio ccmi­mcntary program, "Challenge and Response.*' Now we arc pleased to salute him for having received the George Washington Honor Medal, the 1966 radio award of the Freedoms Foundation at Valley Forge, Pa. 
GLEANINGS 
ROBERT WEYBURNE has been appointed a project engineer for the Sunbeam Equipment Corp. in MeadviUe, Pa. And CORNELIUS FOWLER, we learn, is employed by Fairfield & Ellis Inc. in Boston. 
Among moves on the map are those of Father IGNATIUS BECHTOLD from Des Moines to Chicago; VENTUR.\ GONZALEZ from a New York APO to Dallas; and BERNIE METER from Decatur, III. to Kalamazoo, Mich. 
CODA 
See y'all 
In Morrisscy Hall. 
JACK MILES 3218 Bentley Lane, South Bend, Ind. 46615 
As you could tcU by the Jan.-Fcb. issue of the ALUSIXUS there has been a dearth of in­

1950 
formation flowing my Mtey. The only way that I can have information for this column is through your cooperation. Please let me hear from you. 
RICHARD CLEARY has been elected an as­sistant VP of Bachc and Co. and is resident manager of the company's South Bend office. GENE van DER HAGEN lias been appointed foundry engineer for Sibley ^^achine and Foundry Corp. TIMOTHY HANRAHAN has been ap­pointed associate group director of Aerospace Corp.'s eastern test range ofHcc, which assists the Air Force Space S>-stems Div. BOB BARRETT has moved to Birmingham, Ala.; LYLE PEARSON to MontcbcIIo, Calif.; JOE DOUGHERTY to Vandenbers AFB, Calif.; DICK EYKHOLT is in Fort Wa>Tic, Ind.; DON CLEARY is now in Champaign, 111. 
On the southern front, our ND Club of Greater Miami had the highlights of the 1948 and 1949 football seasons narrated by LARRY COUTRE with the able help of CHARLIE CALLAHAN '38, publicity director of the Miami Dolphins, and JOE BRIDE '58, publicity director of the Baltimore Orioles. On Alarch 9 at the Miami Heart Institute we were treated to a fine dedication of a neuro­diagnostic lab donated in honor of our wonderful past president of the University, Father JOHN J, CAVANAUGH CSC. 
In the Miami Club from our Class, BOB 0*liULLEY is VP, MACK SILAFFER is program chairman and doing publicity' for us. LARRY COUTRE keeps his eyes peeled for Ara for the Miami-ND game on Nov. 24 which will be an excellent contest inasmuch as the U. of Miami is four deep in excellent quarterbacks, flankers and offensive ends. Joe Robbie, owncr^managcr of the Miami Dolphins, is an associate member of our Club and lias had two sons at ND. ERNIE HEFFERLE, offensive line coach of the Dolphins, is also an ND graduate and former ND coach. I 
' heard a nimor that our freshman team is an average of 250 pounds and six foot four from end to end. I win liave to wait to see what the spring practice results are and let you know in the July-August issue. 
Dr. TAD L. PATTON MS '50 lias been pro­moted to research associate in Esso Research and Engineering Co.'s Baytown Research and Develop­ment Div. ROBERT MICHAUD has been named group attorney for Bcndix Corp.'s auto­motive manufacturing division. FRANCIS VER SNYDER has won United Aircraft Corp.'s George Mead Gold Medal for engineering ac:hie\'ements for his invention of a process by which Pratt and Whitney Aircraft is produdng stronger, longer-life turbine blades and v'ancs for jet engines. He is associate director of the ad­vanced materials research development lab for United Aircraft. 
I note that our BILL WALSH is assistant lo Hank Stram of the Kansas City Chiefs. JOE STEINOCHER is now living in Miami and is with Radcr Assoc. DAN ROWLAND is operating his ^lajor Appliances, Inc. and is looking as happy and prospt:rous as ever. 
I appreciated hearing from BOB SINCWICH on his Ohio Valley Club 1950 graduates and would like to hear from HERB SAMPSON, JACK MULDOON, BOB ROHLING, DON MEEK, PETE FRIDAY, JOE JUDGE and RAY ^L\RTIN, who arc all officers in their respective Clubs and can pass on some information as to the 1950 members to me for the Class column. It looks like JIM MARTIN as assistant coach for the Detroit Lions, togcdicr with NICK EDDY and MEL PARR ought to stir up some lively action for the Lions next fall. 
Here's hoping that all of you and your families have a pleasant summer \*acation. 
JOHN W. THORNTON 4400 Monserrafe St., Coral Gables, Fla. 33146 

^ 1 ^^^^ HBi ^ B During a recent Washing­^1 W ^B ^^^ ^1 ton trip we \'isited with 
• ^^ ^m I ^^' M E L O C H E and I ^^^^ ^^^^ I picked up some of the 
family details. Jim married May Rdlly and they have four children: Diane, 8; Linda, 7; Harold, 5; and Thomas, 4. It appears that Jim has just about served his stint in Washington and is looking forward to returning to Detroit mthin the next few months. If anyone up that way needs a good patent attorney versed in 
38 
the chemical arts he should get in touch with Jim. 
After leaving Jim I had just turned the comer and ran into JACK BARNETT, who is a patent attorney with A. O. Smith in Milwaukee. Ja ^ and his wife Afuricl reside \rith their four children at 2759 N. 118th St. in Wauwatosa, Wis. Their four giiis are: Kathleen Ann, 11; Colleen Mary, 8; Claire Teresa, 7; and Carol Ikfavoiunecn, 3. Jack expressed regret at missing the last Reunion but reported that Muriel had undet^one smne serious surgery at the time and now is practically re­covered. He is working already to have the family in top shape by June of '71 so that he can attend the next get-together. 
I \xalked with Jack down to the search rocmi in the Commerce Building where we met TED PRAHINSKI. Ted is also a patent attoraey and practices in Washington. He held out for 11 yeazs but in 1962 married Alary Caspar and they now live at 1901 Plymouth, N.W., Washington, DC 20012. They have two girls and a boy: Mary, 4; Susan, 2; and John, 3 months old. We came dose to meeting BOB CLEMENCY that same day but Bob was detained visiting an old Navy buddy and we \nll have to look for him dtiring another Washington trip. That almost takes care of the patent attorneys in our Class, and we will try to get in touch with JOE NAUGHTON who prac­tices patent law in Indianapolis before the next 
deadline. If there are any other of our class­mates who have strayed so far from the straight and narrow as to become patent attorneys, WB w*ould like to hear from them. 
GUS CLICK is still moving the mcrdiandise for the jolly Jewel. Afore accurately, he is the assistant to the VP for wtirehousing and trans­portation for the Jewel Tea Co. at their Melrose Park, 111. headquarters. Gus and Ann mth thdir four children live at 2 Elsinoor Dr., Lincolnshirt^ 
m . They had three girls before Gtis, the fourth, arrived. The girls are: Geralyn, Lauri and Saxah* 
JAMES JENNINGS Borg-Warner Corp., 200 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago, III. 60604 
Class Reunion time is rapidl y approaching. Received a letter from HANK McCORMACK 
1952 
with ne%%-5 of Reunion 
plans. "June 9 is just a few weeks away. All the arrangements have been made at South Bend to insure a most enjoyable 15th Reunion for the Class of *52. BOB KING uill be local arrangements chairman. The following are busy promoting the Reunion in their area: BILL WHITE, Chicago; BOB FINK, New York; TERRY BRODY, Eastern US; TOM CHILSOLM, Western US; and JIM WALSH, Southern US. 
"It is also reported that WALLY SWEENEY h leading a group of 'former fraternity brothers* from Sorin Hall back to South Bend. Such notables as BOB KIRCHGESSMER, JIM KL\NNON. LEE STIEDEN, JACK MUELLER, JOE STANICHAK and JIM POWERS are heading for South Bend. Indications are that a large number of the Glass of '52 will be on hand. There is still plenty of time left to make plans to be in South Bend June 9, 10 and II." 
WILLIAM VANDEVEN has joined the Ton! Co. as manager of systems research and long-range planning. He was formerly secretary-treasurer of the Acme Printing Ink Co. He and his wife Betty now have eight children. RICHARD DEGRAFF is currently directing the individual spcdal gift solicitation for the $360,000,000 U. of Chicago fund raising program. He has four daughters now. JOHN HARRINGTON has been appointed associ­ate genera] agent by the Robert E. I^tcher General Agency of the John HancocJc Mutual Life Ins. Co. He will be responsible for recruiting and training new agents, super^ion and sales promotion. DICK CODY has been appointed a copy writer in the 
creative department of Clinton E. Frank, Inc. 
Word is in from J. ALLAN BLOUNT of Hazel-
wood, Mo. that he has recently accepted a position 
as senior consultant, McDonnell Automation Center 
in St. Louis, Mo., a firm which specializes in all 
phases of management consulting and electronic 
<iata processing. He and wife Catherine boast of 
three daughters, a son and a beagle named Tag. 
He is looking forward to the 15th Reunion June 
9-11. How about you? WILLIA&f A S.\NTINI 
JR., now residing at 101 Bradberry Dr., Monroe-
ville. Pa. with \rife and six children writes that 
after six years at Texas Instruments, he and two 
assodatcs have formed their own manufacturing 
company, Pittsburgh Materials & Chemicals Corp. 
They manufacture silicon, high purity chemicals 
and machinery for the semiconductor industry. 
LEWIS E. UNNEWEHR has recenUy moved 
£rom California to 31093 Fairfax Dr., Birmingham, 
Mich. 48009, to become a principal staff engineer 
at Ford &fotor Co. in Dearborn supervising Ford's 
newly established electric automobile program. He 
states it is an exciting challenge and hopes they 
will be able to contribute something significant 
towards the betterment of the pollution situation 
in our cities. He would like to hear from CLYDE 
HOFFMAN in Afghanistan. 
That's about it for now. Drop me a line of 
news. And see you at REUNION '67, June 9-11. 
HARRY L BUCH 600 Board of Trade BIdg., 
Wheeling, W.Va. 26000 
Received a nice letter from BILL CONROY whom I haven't seen since NROTC days. 
1953 
**It*s good to see an 
old NROTC man handling the Class correspon­
dence. We—^wife P^tty and children Kathy 9, 
Mike 8, David 7 and Carol 4 are spending our 
fourth year here where I am working in the areas 
of education and geography. Received my doctorate 
in social science from S)Tacuse in 1963. We are 
looking forward to spending next year at the U. 
of Washington where I mil be visiting associate 
prof of geography." Thanks for the neivs. Bill. His 
address: U. of Texas, Dept. of Geography, Austin, 
Tex. 78712. 
Rccendy, Mrs. Gloria Stoeller, JOHN "NAILS" STOELLER's mother, sent in a nice note about John who now lives in San Mateo, Calif. He has two litde girls, ages 3 and 1. John works for the Lockheed Missiles and Space Co. in Palo Alto and was a Fulbright winner at ND. Attended the U. of Nancy and the U. of Paris in '53-54. Thanks, "Mxs. Stoeller. 
Very sorry to hear of the death in February of JOE KENNEDY'S father. I'm sure the rest of the Class will remember him in our prayers. Joe's address: 20 James Way, Gary, 111. 
How about a card from EMORY DAKOSKE. "Finally, after many *I'll do it tomorrows' I'm writing. First, married to Jo Dcbussemer way back in '53 and now have seven, four boys and three girls, which is no record, but a good average. Work at Chrysler Corp. as financial analyst and am cur^ rcntly woriung on my master's at U- of Detroit and it is a grind. Sorry to say that my Dad died very suddenly last April. Would like to hear from 'Drini', Father MIKE McKINSTRA and all. My *lud* brother, who was bom in our freshman year, will start at ND in September. (Listen, Em. If you were trying to make me feel old with that piece of neu3, you did.) To any of our Class who get to Detroit, a warm and cordial invite to call or drop in." Glad to hear from you, Emory. His address: 1369 Buckingham Rd., Grossc Pointe Park, Mich. 48230. 
Looks like a slight mix-up according to this letter received from DON DORINI: "Both BILL MAUS and myself, your two Fort Lauderdale reps, did not receive the yellow information cards you stated were mailed in the last issue of the ALUMNUS. We would be most happy to return them to you, the pertinent information attached, if you would be so kind as to forward two ad­ditional copies to my office. I mil see that Bill gets his copy as wdl. We certainly appreciate the new interest you have shown in our Class news and trust we will continue to see a lot more of it in the future. In the meantime, our very best regards to all of you for a very happy and pros­perous 1967." Don't stand on protocol, Don. We want to hear from you anyway. H b address: 2550 Northwest Fourth Ct., Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 33311. 
AL DeGRANE was recently appointed assistant to the chairman of the Board of Texaco Inc. He 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 

r 
FULBRIGHT SCHOLAR TURNED LAY MISSIONARY IN AFRICA 
An African safari may be a dreamed-of experience for the ma­jority, but for Pasquale "Pat" Di-Pasquale Jr. '55 it was frequentiy in his line of work. As a lay mis­sioner in Tanzania, he made sev­eral safaris through East Africa in seju-ch, not of big game, but stained glass for churches he was helping to build. 
A magna cum laude graduate of Notre Dame, he went to England's Oxford University as a Fulbright Fellow. Completing an honors de­gree in English language and litera­ture, he decided to take a sab­batical before pursuing doctoral studies. Just about that time Bishop Joseph Blomjous of Mwanza was looking for an Oxford graduate to teach English to the native African clergy at his diocesan seminary, and Pat was his man. 
St. Mary's Seminary was staffed by 13 White Fathers and Pat. "My principal job, of course, was teach­ing. But I also coached the track team, directed plays, instructed the band in marching and maneuver­ing, started a seminary magazine and generally helped as much as I could with whatever building was going on." He also spent his vaca­tion in the neighboring diocese helping the Maryknollers build their mission at Malili. 
Within six months after his ar­rival in Tanzania, Pat was joined by three volunteers from the Lay Mission Helpers of Los Angeles. One of them w£is Charlotte Fas­nacht whom he married when they 

was assistant to the vicochainnan since 1963 and has been with the company since 1959 when he joined the staff as an attorney. BRYAN COUGH­LIN JR. has become associated with Bryan P. Coughlin Assoc. Inc. as assbtant to the president. He will be active in administiation, customer service and sales. 
PANOS B.^RDIS sends news o{ his btest pub­lications; "Value af Sound Sex Knowledge," Sexology Magazine^ Dec., 1966; "The Ancient Egyptian Family," Indian Sociological Bulletin^ Apr., 1966; "Marriage and Family Customs in Ancient Eg>T)t,'* Social Science, Oct., 1966. He also presented a paper, "The School and Inter­national Cooperation: An Interdisciplinary Essay" at the International Congress of Social Sciences in Barcelona, Spain, Nov., 1%6. ROBERT JOHNSON has been honored as one of the Frigidaire*s top salesmen in the nation during 1966. He received an honorary appointment as top member in the Goal-Maker Club. He is in the Dayton sales zone. 
CHUCK STIMMING's wife Anne reported that Lucy and JIM ROXAN have a boy and that tliey also had a baby girl born in August. 
Well, Gang, that's about it for now. I'm sorry It isn't any longer. Can't aiTord to do much with­out news. So let's make a special effort and *'don't wait for tomorrow." 
WALTER F. "BUD" STUHLDREHER 11006 Jean Rd. S.E., Huntsville, Ala. 35803 
Pat DiPagquaie '5S 
JUUUS NYERERE AND CHARLOTTE DI PASQUALE Tanzania's President with Missionary 
returned to Minnesota in 1961. While Pat was busy at the semi­nary, Charlotte gave her talents to ruiming the Catholic bookshop, contributing to the diocesan news­paper, working for Bishop Blomjous and teaching English to African 
It occurred to me that you may not believe what follows and that you'll forever label this 
column as fiction, not fact. But I'll chance that. Hold your hats. Now, slowly. The following comes from Coach TOM McHUGH (No kidding!): Tom has just finished his third year coaching at Xavier U. in Cincinnati. He's been in touch with his old roomies JOHN LATTNER and ED LEWIS (both of whom are rather big in the family business—the Lattners have se\'cn and Lewises are expecting their fifth or sixth momentarily). Tom also hears occasionally from BOB JOSEPH. Bob is director of personnel for the state liquor dept. in Ohio. Tom keeps in contact, although not too frequently, with another ole friend, NEIL WORDEN from Philadelphia. While Big Tom was living in Toledo he occasionally ran into lawyers MARSHALL DES^fOND and PAUL KRAUSE and now in Cincinnati he often sees PAUL "MR. TUX" KELLY, BARRY SAVAGE and DICK C\STELLINI. The McHughs have two children, Kathy 8 and Kevin 7. Thanks, Tom. How about some of you other hard cases? A letter or card every 12 years or so takes only minutes. 
DON KUNKEL *51MA, '55L ivas oidained Afay 6 at the national headquarters of the Glen­mary Missioners, Cincinnati. His first Alass was celebrated on Afay 7 at his home in Jasper, Ind. After another year of study he'll be in mission work. Don has occasional contact with STAN HERR­LINGER '54L. An old chem engineering buddy 
1954 
and Arab wcxnen at St Joseph the Worker Catholic Center. 
It was not all work and ho play for the lay missioners. Pa^t and Charlotte and their companions were frequent guests at receptipns where they met many of the .cdun-r try's political leaders and influentuU citizens. One of the highlights 6f^ Pat's stay ^vas a safari around Lakei^ Victoria and through the "Moim-. taias of the Moon" during which they "mission-hopj)ed" in Uganda, Kenya and Ruanda Urundi. 
On his return from Tanzania Pat received his master's degree from Oxford before resuming his aca­demic career in the US as teacher at Setcm Hill College and doctoral candidate at the University of Pitts­burgh. Now a medievalist in the English department at University of Oregon, Pat does not discount the value of his contribution to the new nation. "We were fore­runners of the Peace Corpts and can't think of a better way for the US to sho^v the world our good will. We feel, however, that there is one major dilTerence between our activity and that of the Peace Corps—^we were directly associated with the mission work of the Church." 
Nor do the DiPasquales view their experience as a purely one­sided contribution: "Working with the missionaries provided some of the most wonderful education we've ever had. And we learned a great deal from the African peoples themselves." 
PAUL ROBST has been prwooted to major in the USAF. He is now commander of 7235 Ammo Sui^Iy Squadron at Camp Darby, Italy. Talking about chem engineers—^yours triily was promoted to operating superintendent with Monsanto. Fve also switched from the organic chems diviuon to the inorganic £vison. 
BILL MORLEY, who hasn't missed a Notre Dame game since 19^, is now mam^er of trans­portation sales for Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp. in Toledo. JOHN BIERBUSSE received his MBA from Western Alichigan in December. And JIM HERENDEEN has been promoted to product man­ager of Selmer, Signet & Bundy Band Instnuncnts line of H. & A. Sefaner, Inc. RAY TIERNEY of 10-year Reunion &une, dropped me a card from 45 N. Vale Ave., Little Silver, N.J. Hearing from McHi^h and Ray within days of each other was almost too much. Will wonders never cease? Any­way, Ray and Kathy have five little ones—Ray, Bfike, Chris, Kathy and Alida. Ray practices law with the firm of Shanley and Fisher of Newark, 
N.J. Ray reports that the Jersey Shore Club is pretty active, starring such familiar personalities as Dr. TONY GARRUTO, CHRIS MALONE, PAT LEONE, BILL NOONAN, GEORGE FINN, CHARLIE KELLER and twin brother. DICK TIERNEY. Ray went on and on about the wonders of the Jersey Shore in summertime and invites all you classmates to stop in. 
RAY S.ALVINO DDS >s presently located in Rapid City, S.D. He and Dolly have two girls and three boys. He's leading a project to put Ara's head on Mt. Rushmore. After eight years in South 

ALUMNUS MAY 1947 JUNE 
ALUMNI i 
IN THE 

NEWS Congrats 
Donald Kunkel '51, LLB '55 was ordained a priest in the Glenmary Missioners Order on May 6 in Cincinnati. He said his first Mass in his home town of Jasper, Ind., on the fol­lowing day. During the coming year Father Kunkel will pursue further studies. 
Dennis B. Radford '51 has been elected a vice-president of Walston and Co., Inc. He has been with the investment firm since 1961, and last November was appointed resident manager of the Salinas and Carmel, Calif., offices. 
Donald C Rung MS '57, PhD '61, associate professor of mathematics at Pennsylvania State University, has been awarded a one-year Senior Fulbright Lectureship. Dr. Rung 
•jvdU lecture on advanced topics of math at the Institute of Mathematics of Tsinghua University in Hsinchu, Taiwan. A member of the Penn State faculty since 1961, he is supervisor of graduate studies in math and chairman of the department's graduate-studies committee. 
Bruce T. Huot '58 was named the Kankakee, III., Jaycee's 1967 Distinguished Service Award winner. An active businessman, poli­tician and civic leader, he is secretary of the Baron-Huot Oil Co. He also ser\'es as super­visor of Kankakee Township and is president of the Community Action Program, Inc., the official local agency for the War on Poverty. 
Vincent J. Naimoli '59 has been appointed manager of Continental Can Company's plant at LeRoy, N.Y. In his new position he will be in charge of all metal operations for the eastern division's New York plants at LeRoy, North Collins and Alton. He is the holder of two master's degrees in mechanical engineering and business administration. 
Constancio X. C F. Miranda MS '62 was named "teacher of the year" by a University of Detroit student poll conducted by the En­gineering Student Council. Dr. Miranda joined the faculty in 1965 and is serving as head of the civil engineering faculty at U. of Detroit. 
Dakota, he hopes to move to Chicago soon. Father JIM HIGGDiS reported the sudden death of his dad at the age of 70. Your prayezs arc deeply appreciated. RCXSER FERN is bacll in school at LSU. Primarily, Rog is working on his thesis and ^t h its completion he'll get his master's in jouinaJtsm. Rog had been asst, managing director of the Baton Rouge Safety Council. Safety occupies a good part of Roger's time as it's in port the title of his thesis and in his spare time he teaches defensive driving. Rog and Emelie (JESS JOLLY's sister) liave one child, a boy Stephen. 
Talked recenUy with BUB WRIGHT and ED (NED) SEIM. Bob's big with Kroger Co. in Cincinnati and has recently switched from olives to detergents—^as national manager of marketing. Bob reports fitm resen'ations confirmed for our reunion party weekend. See you all then—im­mediately after the ftist home game, Sept. 23. Ned Seim and Sheila were snowfmund in Wausau, Wis. and w*ere seeking solace. The Seims stopped by here after last season's ND43klahoma game and we had a marvelous reunion of our own. It's too bad we don't all get together more often. Life is short and opportunities to recapture our \'ani5h­ing youth (profound, huh?) arc too few. Make the most of them—keep in touch, don't miss our five-year Reunions and try to make our yearly reunion parties. 
That's it. Write when you get the chance and as they say down in Bimini—"Keep the faith, Baby!" 
MILTON J. BEAUDINE 21 Signal Hill Blvd., E. Sh Louis, 
III. 62203 
The Class cocktail party will be field this year after the victory over ^lichigan State Oct. 
1955 
28. The party will be held in the Shamrock Room of the Aforris Inn. That's the private room behind the general party area that we have used in the past. Mark your calendar now and get those ticket orders in early. Let's see some big groups this year from New York, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Clevebnd, Detroit, Toledo and other "major market areas" as we call them in the trade. 
Got a nice letter from JIM IRWIX who now is practicing law in Hamilton, Oliio. "Everything is willing but the legs as I still manage to play soft­ball with the local legal eagles' team—shades of our old intcrhall softball XD league which wc enjoyed with so many classmates. Regards to ex­rooroies DOX SILEO and TO.M IGLESKI." 
Speaking of "legal eagles," JIM GRIFFIN was smart enough to get stranded in Dallas during our big snow storm in Chicago. While there he broke 
. bread {and probably a few corks) with JOHN ROGERS and PAT McNAMAR.^. John, who lives at 4746 Twin Post Rd., manages to scr\"e as pre^dcnt of the Big D Notre Dame Club while handling his law practice, too. I^t, who lives in Lubbock with hts brood, is the soft drink king of T«as . (That's a good business in a brown bag state like Texas!) Griff, who managed to keep his footing through alt our snow and ice, slipped on the Texas sun or something and strained his back wiiich took some of the fun out of the get-together. He reports, tho, that John and Pat look great. 
Received this report from Griff at the Chicago Club Communion breakfast where CHUCK, MUCKENHIRN's sister, Sr. Charles Borromeo CSC was one of the principal speakers. Sat at the same table with DICK SCHLEITER, who still locks like he could go a fast 10 rounds. 
TIM SHEA sent a nice long note. He has two children and lives at 831 S. Buchanan St., Arling­ton, Va. For the past six years be has been the Washington rep for Doughboy Industries, a govern­ment supplier. He's been active on the civic front as chairman of the Washington Junior Cliambcr of Commerce Committee on Urban Youth Crime Prevention. Tim also is a director of the Arlington Colts Boys' Athletic Club. In the "miscellany" category, Tim is a distributor for American limber Homes, as well as an associate of Phoenix Co. and Federal Electronics Liaison Assoc. Two of FRANK LEAHY'S boys moved recently. FRANK VARRICHIONE, who retired from professional football and relinquished his captaincy ot the Rams, has returned to South Bend at 1535 Strath­morc. DICK SZYMANSKI, who has been through the pro wars on both defense and offense for the Colts, now lives at 8414 Nunley Dr., Baltimore. Incidentally, two more '55ers have returned to South Bend—JOHN KE.\NE, 1105 Hudson and PAT SWEENEY, 107 W. North Shore Dr. TOM MAGILL got smart and followed the sun from 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 

Pennsylvania to North I^Im Beach, Fla., 119 and mock-up division in Sudbury, Mass. JOHN C. ENGLER. »ho a comfortably residing Atbnttc Rd. but JIM METRE5S filled the gap BRAD BAILIE SJ wrote from Ahna CoL m m Winnetka. JAMES P. FINNEGAN, formerly of by moving to Shippenville, Pa., Route 1, Box 2W Los Gatos, Calif, that he, FRED LYONS and Bradford, m., is ilirector of sales trainins for from Fennville, Mich. That old master painter, JOE STOCKING arc to be ordained to the Kendall Caip.'s Chicago division. 
JOHN LOCHTEFELD, has moved his easel to 
72 Oregon Rd., Peekskill, N.Y. 
Capt. WALT LANGFORD escaped serious in­
jury when the plane on which he was navigator 
crashed and burned near Weisbaden, Gcnnany. 
Walt is a career officer in the Air Force and 
has been in Germany a little over a year. Father 
JOHN RYAN reports that his brother Bill, who 
underwent surgery for a back injury received 
in Vietnam, is recovering at Great Lakes. Father 
John says that the doctors feel that Bill will be 
able to walk again after treatment and physical 
therapy. 
Here are a few* notes from the international 
front. PAUL HARTMAN is back in the States 
after an overseas stint and can be reached at 49 
Nightingale Lane, Gulf Breeze, Fla. JOHN 
MUSOLINO is back at 280 Fall St. in Seneca 
Falls, N.Y., after a delightful bit in Geneva. RAY 
LONG was very big at St. Patrick's Day parties 
this year after his stay in Ireland; but, he's now 
back on duty wth DuPont at its Chambers Works 
in Deep Water, NJ . LARRY O'MARA, on the 
other hand, has shoved off from Grand Rapids 
for cosmopolitan Mexico City, Santa Maria La 
Rcgla 42, Colonia Bosques Ecchcgaray, Mexico, 
D.F. 
JOHN CASEY has been named branch manager 
of the new Lyell Ave. office of the Lincoln 
Rochester Trust Co. of Rochester, N.Y. DICK 
COOK has moved into a new sales promotion post 
in Chicago with Libby, McNeil. JOHN HESTER, 
the new corresponding secretary (I think that 
means he's the only one who can still write at 
the end of a gala) of MIKE KELLY's swinging 
"Organization '55" in Chicago, has a few items 
that can be published. John, who sells municipal 
bonds for A. G. Becker, greeted BOB RUSSELL 
at the office and then led him right to Lattncr's 
for the dinner. Bob, who had been working in 
California, is in Becker's institutional division. 
He has moved wife, two girls and accumulated 
belongings to 6582 Hiawatha, Chicago. PAUL 
DWYER, a manager for Arthur Andersen, has 
his five kids headquartered at 15200 Ingleside, 
South Holland. LOU BRIODY, who has his own 
insurance agency, has four children. He lives at 
9823 S. Bell. BILL BRETT, who lives at 9621 
Springfield in Evergreen Park, is with Minnesota 
Mining. "Red" has five minor deductions. 
MIKE DE PADRO checked in recently. He 
now lives at 2591 N.E. 41st Ct., Ft. Lauderdale, 
Fb. (Tough life, huh, Mike?) Other nomads in­
clude: ED DARGIS 1 Edwin Ct., Indianapolis; 
FRED DELLO-STRITTO, 131 Mimosa Dr., 
Ccntcn^IIe, Ohio; FRANK ORLANDO, 262 S. 
Firestone Blvd., Akron; and Dr. ARNOLD 
CURNYN, 722 Mayfair. Ariington Heights, III. 
PETE SUTHERL.-\ND has been appointed assistant to the president of Colonial Laundries, Inc., a Rhode Island retail chain. HUGH SCH.AEFER has joined the firm of Marion Corp. as general counsel. He formerly was assistant US attorney for the northern district of Okla­homa. DON FREUND lias been admitted to partnership in the firm of Hughes, Mueller and Co., certified public accountants in Chicago and Elgin, 111. Don recently moved into a new home at 6516 Field Ct., Crystal Lake, HI. Two illustrious members of our Class were featured in the Dec. 23 issue of the Chicago Tribune — GEORGE MEYERS placing Santa Glaus for children of Black Hawk hockey players and JOHN WEITHERS head of "Chicago '67," a group urging the reelection of Mayor Daley. 
Let me hear from you! See you all at Notro Dame after the AISU game on Oct. 28. 
PAUL FULLMER 1922 Larkdale Dr. Glenview, ML 60025 
EDWARD ROBIN­SON has been ap­pointed director of the newly created Com­

1956 
munity Affairs Dcpt. of the Arehdioccse of Detroit. The department will handle Catholic arehdiocesan activities against poverty and racial discrimination. According to a chancery spokesman, the position is without equal in importance for a lay administrator. NICHOLAS SCHMELZER has been appointed product manager at Baxter International Labs. CLIFTON MORSE has been appointed field engineer with Atkins & Afcrril's cnsinccring model priesthood this June. TOM BENNETT has been named general manager and asst. to the publisher of the Buffalo Diocese's paper, the Magnificat* Capt. JOHN McINTIRE is now on duty at a forward USAF combat base in Southeast Ana. He is an F-lOt Starfighter pilot. WILLIAM "BILLY" SQUIRES is head track coach at Boston State Col. where his teams have earned a record of 50-6 and II small cu>llege champion­ships. Billy is also an asst. prof, of health educa­tion at the school. He and his wife Sally have two children Bill Jr. and Afary Susan. 
Dr. JOE O'CONNOR has been drafted and is serving with the US Army at Madigan Gen. Hosp. in Tacoma, Wash. TOM CAPLET is working in the newspaper business in NYC. BILL KEARNEY is presently working in Minneapolis, Minn. GEORGE DAILEY is back in South Bend as manager of the Dun & Bradstreet office there. ED RECHNER is product planning manager for industrial dispatching products at Motorola Com­munications Div. BILL NITSCHKE is product planning manager for the industrial products communications division at Motorola. PETER CANNON is still living in Reston, Va. He and his wife now have five children. 
PAUL HOUSE is with Burlington Industries in Burlington, N.C. He and his wife Elizabeth have three children. GEORGE GIBSON is still with Procter and Gamble in Toronto. Received a note from PAUL REYNOLDS, former footballer, who is living in Anchorage and is VP of Christianson Construction Co. there. Patil has been in Alaska for five years and is apparently enjo>ing life in the 49th State. ED COSGROVE and I attended DON COSTELLO's wedding to Gale Kelsey in Chicago on April 8. ROGER O'REILLEY and PAT CRADDOCK were in the wedding party. At the reception we saw PHIL WHITE, MARK BURNS and CHET MITCHELL. Ed and I visited with GENE BRENNAN and his wife Pat in their new home in Glen Ellyn for the weekend. Gene is in the investment business with Smith-Barney Co. 
EUGENE O'CONNOR Cosgrove & O'Connor, 656 Ellicott Sq. BIdg. Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 
MORE '56 
Deadline lamblings—for those interested in keep­ing up with our classmates on the move; Chicago ND Club mailing list shows JOSEPH W. CLINE now in San Francisco; Dr. JOHN S. CYWINSKI in Valley Stream, N.Y.; Dr. TOM MURPHY at 434 E. 67th St. in NYC; Dr. JOSEPH S. O'CONNOR has taken a brief break in his OB practice to reside in Fort Lewis, Wash.; THOMAS 
C. DONOVAN is in Denver, Colo, at last notice; Ruth and BILL HINTON are now in Indianapolis; hope JOHN C. CLIFFORD is prospering and well in Los Alamos, N.M.; GEORGE GIBSON is lirag in Toronto; JOHN T. McSWEENEY moved to Baldwin, Mo.; Father ANTHONY KURIALA­CHERRY has escaped all Chicago spies and we have no current address; WILLIAM P. YOUNG JR. is in Casper, Wyo.; WILLIAM J. TESCHKE resides in Avon, Mass. 
As spring sprung JIM REVORD moved his family from Des Flaincs to 1326 Royal Oak in Glenvicw, 111. We're most indebted to DICK ALLISON, DON C.ARLIN, JACK CASEY, CARL EIGLESBACH, JACK KEGALY, BILL LaFOND, JIM REVORD, HOWIE WESTRICK and LUKE BRENN.AN for working with this Chicago Club Class secretary in contacting fellow classmates in the area. At this writing we're hopeful of good representation at the UND Night banquet featur­ing Father HESBURGH and Ray Bolger. We are also hoping to arrange for bimonthly supper socials at Lattner's restaurant. 
Be sure to check the next issue of the ALUSINUS in the "births" column for Audrey and DICK ALLISON. Dick is anticipating great thingx this summer at his Richall Paper Products Co. and hopes for a healthy 1987 N D Ail-American quarter­back bearing his name. After proudly telling me about her husband's new duties at Reynolds Metals Co. in McCook, III. Mrs. BILL (Pat) LaFOND asked if it might be in the ALUMNUS. I said that it was doubtful. According to Chicago Loop authorities, two leading stock market experts include GENE BRENNAN, who just moved into a real fine home in suburban Downers Grove, and 
Any info you might have on 'Sfieis can reach me at 726 Forest Rd., LaGrai^ Ftark, U. 60525. —JOHN MANION 
Real fine report from 
BILL RIGAU who is 
living in White Rains, 
N.Y. and covering the 
1957 
Northeast for the 
family firm Dcprato and working out of Bfan­hattan. Bill is definitely going to make the "Big lO*' and in doing so leaves behind three lads and a miss. BiU tells us that his former roommatte JOHN REARDON is in sales promotion and marketing for Meade*Johnson li%^ng in Evansville, Ind. Also that JIM MILOTA and fanuly are residing in Wilmington, Ohio where he is sales manager of a firm which Bill did not mention. Dr. BILL GARVIN and family are living in Wcllesley, Mass. where Bill is educational director at St. Elizabeth's Hosp. as well as a practicing intrniist. Harry "Hairless" Barsley and group are living in Rocky River, Ohio where Harry is heading up a service and technical sales dept. GEORGE D^AMORE is not driving but climbing up the Greyhound executive ladder in Ehnhurs^ 
m. 
BOB "BONGO" GRIFFIN, recently married, is president of Indian Archery in Evansville, Ind. BIG BOB MONDRON and family recently moved down to sunny Florida where he picked up his master's degree and is high school coach and ass't athletic director. TOM McMURTRY is still baching it while living in Lancaster, Calif. and is employed in the airiine manufactxiring end. JOE NORTON and family are living in Oak Rirk where Joe is a potent barrister along with our gwid friend TOM O'BRYAN who is also lawyer­ing it in Chi. K. J. PHELAN is running his Dad's loan business and is always good for a touch. Seriously, we hope that K.J.'s father re-co\'cis from his present illness and our prayers are with him. Another loan shark is ED QUINN in the form of getting the customer to get the loan from K.J. and buy the stocks £d offers. JACK WITUCKI is a great salesman of homes in Elkhart. DON WASIK is Ihingin Manchester, Conn. AL\TT TATTINO is wth Western Union while moonlighting as prexy of Lake "Maho^oc neighborhood assoc. AH of the above is through the cooperation and courtesy of one BILL RIGAU and we can't thank him enough for the time and effort. 
JIM BYRNE IS doing it right. He zs living in San Francisco and owns and operates the Career Giri and Junior Executive Employment ^enc y in Lc» Altos. Jim is definitely going to make the "Big 10." He informs us that BERT MILLEN is liWng in San Jose and working for Western Contract Furnishers. LARRY KRUPPENBACHER is residing in I^fonte Sereno and teaching Spanish at Campbell H5. RON HOLZ is living in Greenbrae. JIM BYRNE wiH have two big festive celebrations in June — first the Reunion and on June 24 he will wed Elva DugU in lung City, Calif. Our Congrats. Thanks, Jim, for all the information. The great EARL HOGAN lets us know he is afive in Kansas City and really gives forth with the following: Earl was married in old Mishawaka back in '61 and took no one less than the mayor's daughter for his wife. Helping him along were STEVE PENNTf and LOU LONCARIC. With a beautiful wife and good food Earl has played host to RAY ROTH in 
K. C. Ray is with IBM and living in St. Louis. John Cusack spent one summer in K.C. **trust­busting for the fecb" and dating the younger generation. Earl himself b with Lederle Labora­tories and has the opportunity for travel. Recently he ^vas in Dallas and visited with BILL JACQUE­

ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
MAIN" who is also u-ith Lcdcric in the Albu­
querque area. Earl attempted to phone FROGGY 
NEUHOFF but Joe was somewhere on his ^fa^I­
boro horse buying cows. In K.C. and \-icimty 
we also find NORM KEYING, TOM Mc-
DONALD, CHARLIE O'CONNELL, CHUCK 
O'NEILL and TOM SHEHAN. McDonald is with 
Sandoz Pharmaceutical and \%'as promoted to their 
Hanover, N.J. general offices as sales manager. 
CHARLIE O'CONNELL is selling air for Linde 
(the hot variety?). O'NEILL is heading up Min­
nesota MutuaPs regional ofHcc while being prexy 
for the K.C. Notre Dame Club. Earl ends it by 
telling us that he still holds down a rcser\'e navi­
gator's billet with an aviation transport outfit and 
recently had a rather interesting mission to a place 
called Da Nang in Vietnam. The only good thing 
about that trip is that they flew \"ia Hawaii. Thants 
for all the information. Earl, and it is good to 
know that we will be seeing you under the Dome 
come June. 
As if you didn't know our PAUL HORNUNG recently married one Pat Roeder. Keeping our fingers crossed that they both will come to the "Big 10." NICK GRASBERGER has been appointed manager of marketing planning and research for the general products division of .AUis-Chalmers. JIM KENNEDY MD has completed training and has put up his shingle in Kankakee, HI. He reports that FRANTC PED.\CE and family have moved to California where he is opening an office for the practice of dermatology. BOB KAY and wife and kiddies are bedded doun in Lombard, 111. where he is a surgical resident at Hincs VA Hospital. Thanks for the information, Jim. ROGER ALLAN has joined Ketchum, MacLeod & Grove, Inc., advertising and public relations agency as an account exec in Pittsburgh, Pa. JIM RIEGER's good wife Mary tells us that Jim has been trans­ferred from Frankfort, Ky. to ScjTnour, Ind. as asst. mgr. for Scars in Se^Tnour. Jim and Mary arc building up their own little store wth four little Riegers to take care of. 
DANTE FULIGNI is architecting it up Syracuse way and is looking forward to making the Reunion. Also LOU LONCARIC wants to see the particulars re the Reunion and is expecting to make the big scene. I spent a wld evening during which we caught a glimpse of the ND-N\'U game in the Garden. But with the likes of JACK C.-\SEY, ED DEAN, JERRY BECHERT, PAUL WALKER. MARK AL\LEY, etc., you're luckT if you catch a glimpse of anjlhing except the bottom of the glass. Paul is with the Chase Manhattan Bank's national diwsion and Bob is in sales with Bcrhin and Jones, envelope manufacturers. Ed's with Joha McGrath, an admiralty firm and Mark labors with the textile division of Sfonsanto. Jack's with Einsoa Freeman and Dc Troy Corp. and Jerry is involved in international selling. JIM HEERING planned on joining us but was called out of town on business. 
A good number of the Eastern contingent ex­pressed their intention of making the Expo '67 in June. This is one event you just can't miss and should be worth whatever sacrifice it entails. Re­member, the only thing that you can't make up for is lost time so don't lose sight of being under the Dome come June 9, 10 and II. This will be the last issue before the BIG WEEKEND and tlicrcfore make our next meeting a personal one in South Bend. 
Your prayers are requested for Leo AI. Riley, father of ALL.AN RILEY oiu: dassmatc. ilr . RUey died March 3. 
JOHN P. McMEEL 30 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y. 10017 
Our sympathy is extended to W. J. MOTZ, whose mother passed away on Jan. 19. 

1958 
Your prayers are earnestly solicited. 
The balance of our news, ivhich you WTII note, is very meager, as follows: JOHN F. McJLAHON (in care of Aluminum Co. of America, Warrick Operations, Newburgh, Ind. 47630) informs us that be has been transferred by Alcoa from its subsidiary in Surinam, South America, to Warrick County, Ind. His assignment is as public relations assistant and it's his fourth location in eight years with the company. Sr. M. THOALA S\VANSON OP JbfA '58 received a $2,000 doctoral scholarship from Cardinal Spcllman and the Archdiocese of New Yoric for her studies at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. JAMES GUSHING was graduated from 
the Air U.'s Squadron Officer School and was reassigned to the Pentagon. EDWARD &1EELL recently left his position as chairman of social studies dept. at Mt. Ldjanon 
H.S. to become social studies editor of the text-film div. of McGraw-Hill in N'YC. JAMES M. GRAY, R.D. No. 1, Demunds Rd., Dallas, Pa., reports the following: He was married to the former Charlotte &I. Wundcr, of Sandusky, Ohio in .4ug. 1962. Laura was bom June 24, 1963, and daughter Elaine was bom April 1, 1966. Jim graduated with a MFA in music in Aug., 1966 from Ohio U. and is now employed as head of the music education dept. at College Miscricordia, Dallas, Pa. Our sympathy is also extended to Jim on the death of his mother on Sept. 30 of last year. Your prayers will be appreciated by the family. 
BOB BENO, who 5er\-ed as a pallbeaier at Mis. Gray's funeral, is presently city solicitor in Spring­field, Ohio. Jim also reports that TOM McGEE is an assistant prof, of music at St. Frauds Col., Antigonish, Nova Scotia. JOHN J. HEALY MD is serving with the Air Force as a pediatrician at Hickam AFB, Hawaii. John anticipates that he will return to a pediatric cardiology fellowship after hb military serrice. He was married in 1962 and now has two children. Shannon, 4 and John, 2. 
DICK LYNCH has retired from pro footbaO, and now intends to devote his time to business interests. Major RONALD JEBAVY recently re­turned from Vietnam and has been assigned to the military science dept. of St. Norbert, Col. in West DcPere, Wis. FRED HOLZL has been ap­pointed agency manager for the Sentry Life Ins. Co.'s Skokie, HI. office. ROBERT COLAIZZI JR. has formed a partnership \rith Arnold Lundmark for public relations counseling. They will handle product and corporate news service, community and governmental afTairs, internal communication, spedal events and speech sernces. The ICON Public Relations Counselors have ofiices in Dayton, Ohio. EDMUND HOURIGAN has been elected to Owens-Coming Fiberglas Sales Builders Club for outstanding achievements in 1966. 
ARTHUR L. ROULE, JR. 102 "I" St., LaPorte, Ind. 46350 
1958 LAW 
JOHN F. MARCHAL Marchal & Marchal, 116-118 W 4th St., Greenville, Ohio 45331 
DUKE P. GIBBON 
writes from 423 So. 
Wesley Ave., Oak 
Park, m. that in June, 
1961 he received an "MBA in finance from U. of Chicago, q>ent two years in the Army and in Kfay, 1964 joined the American Nat'I Bank and Trust. In June, 1966 Duke u'as promoted to officer with the tide asst. mgr. of the credit dept. Duke married Constance Mary Bishart, Nov. 19. MICHAEL P. PHENNER is with the law firm of Hopkins, Sutter, Owen, Alulroy, Wentz & Davis in Chicago. Capt. JOHN ROY has entered a 10-week course in system program management under the Air Force Institute of Technology at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio. John is a mechanical engineer at Fort WainwTight, Alaska. 
ERNIE NIEDBAL.A, wife Mary and eight-year­old son Michael arc in Burbank, Calif., 627 £ . Cedar Ave., Apt. E where for the past two years Ernie lias been the West Coast operations auditor for tlie International Telephone and Telegraph Corp. SCOTT W. BRADSHAW has been in the Army since graduation and is now a captain in the Infantry. At the present time, Scott is teaching military science at Kansas State Col. of Kttsburg, Pittsburg, Kan. He married Emily Diaz, sister of JOHN DIAZ '61, in Oklahoma City in Sept., 1959. They now have four sons, Michael 6, Stephen 5, Edu-ard 3 and Matthew David, bom De c 14, 1966. Scott was stationed in Bamberg, Germany with JOE MEINERT prior to Kansas State. Another member of the Class whom he has seen is GARY VICTOR, who is a Navy lieutenant in Long Beach, Calif. Gary, wife Penny (Pence SMC) and their children Chris and Mary Carol visited the Bradshau3 at Fort Benning. Capt. Bradshaw wll ship over to Vietnam this summer and is a *'lifcr*' in the Army, planning to put in 20 years or more and then go into education. 
JIM KENNEDY married Sherrie Hopican CU. 
1959 
of Detroit) in Jan., 1966. The Kennedys had a 
baby girl in January of this year and the same 
month Jim was promoted from sales to manage­
ment with the Burroughs Corp. in Detroit. March, 
1967 fotmd them in their new home in Warren, 
Mch. JIM GARRITY, 123 Anne Way, Los Gatos, 
Calif, wrote recently that after being commissioned 
at N D he went to Germany with the 4th Armored 
Div. for two years. He returned to NYC and 
woiked for Chase AJDinhattan Bank where he met 
his wife .Andrea. In Feb., 1963 they moved to 
California and the Crocker Citizens Bank. They 
now live in Los Gatos with sons Tommy 3 and 
Jimmy 2. Jim is prescndy asst. mgr. and com­
mercial loan officer at the Meridian Hacienda 
office in San Jose. Last Christmas in NYC the 
Garritys met with the JIM GILCHRISTs. Jim 
and his wife Irene are living in Somcrs, N.Y. 
After working for Sears Roebuck, Jim decided on 
a teaching career and is now basketball coach and 
instructor in the elementary grades. The Garritys 
also saw the PAUL DOHERTYs. Paul is VP 
of sales for Package Pavement, operating out of 
Carmel, N.Y. Piiul, Maureen and daughter Pamela 
reside in Lake Alahopac, N.Y. Through Paul 
comes the info that JIM DONOVAN finally left 
the ND campus after obtaining his PhD. 
From TOM TRINLEY's mother comes word that Tom and Maureen and their five children, Katie, Patrick, Beth, Sheila and Tommy have moved back to Chicago. Tom is now with Amoco in Whiting, Ind. where he is working in tlie field of chem engineering and is also patents advisor. Tom is finishing his kiw course at DcPauI U. and when finished will be a full-time patent atty. for Amoco. Mrs. Trinlcy also tells us that another *59 "bachelor" has taken the step. BILL HAWKINS of Sorin Hall was married to Carol Lyn Jackson on Jan. 14 and they are at 229 N. Kensington in LaGrange, HI. Congratulations, Bill! DICK BUHRFIEND, his wife Carol (Kennedy) and dieir three daughters have moved into tlieir new home in Elmwood Park, III., a Chicago suburb. Dick is a busy attorney in the Windy Citv. JOHN MALONEY, who was the Class orator on June 6, 1959, \asited the Tom Trinleys in their home in the Be\-eriy Hills section of Chicago during the Christmas holiday's. John was en route to visit his relatives and has been living in Washington, DC where he is working as a chemical engineer in the Atomic Research Div., under Admiral Hyman 
Rickover. Our thanks to Mrs. Trinley for the above infomiation and the many items she has furnished this column during the past few years. Of course, many of us are indebted for the "Open House" in Pompano Beach which the senior Trinleys had for our Class during those Easter vacations in Florida from '56 through '58. 
In Sept., 19frJ STEVE DORNBACH accepted a poution in St. Paul with the Ramsey County libation Dept. and he and his family (three girls) live at 1900 Princeton Ave., St. Paul 55105. Steve informs us that DENN^ LEO is working for his father in Alinncapolis, TOM LEE is with Gen­eral Mills in Great Falls, Mont, and DAVE CUL­LIGAN, after finishing at the U. of Minnesota Med School, has moved on to Mayo Clinic. NORM ODYNIEC is also at Mayo's. BILL CASEY is still teaching at Notre Dame High in Niles, m. Steve also hears from BOB WETOSKA and JIM JUST (via long-distance phone call). Jim is in Dallas where he is director of a Bo>-s* Town of Dallas. Finally, BOB HASSENGER received his PhD from U. of Chicago and is at the University in the sociology dept. Thanks for the items, Steve! ED CAWI received an MA in education from the U. of Detroit after leaving ND. He taught math there and worked for Bendix and Ford Alotor. After four years at Ford, Ed left to teach data processing at Eastern Michigan 
U. He married the former Gerigette Hecklin from Windsor, Ont. and they have a daughter 4 and two sons, 3 and five months. Last Christmas Ed heard from EUGENE VAICHULIS who is with the Navy in Formosa, D.AVE NE.AL who just ioined Upjohn in Kalamazoo and ED PLUMLY who is leading a bachelor's life in White Plains, N.Y. 
DAVE KESTNER is employed in the bw firm of Rocap and Rocap in Media, Pa. Dave married the former Teddy Closkey on April 30, 1966. HARRY SIEGEL and LARRY WENTZ were in the wedding party. Dave can be found at 514 Wheatsheaf Rd., Springfield, Delaware Co., Pa. MICHAEL HALPIN became a married man last June 25. The wedding ceremony was at St. Afary's Church in the Society Hill section of old Phib­delphia. The bride, the former Patricia Shields, and scholarly Alike now reside at 703 W. Wyoming Ave., Philadelphia. Mike is involved in another gran^ this one In math, so his PIiD in 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 

American civilization is now expected in June of fellowship in mass communications research from this year. ^'There's something about trying 1o U. of Denver in '64. Am now an 'ABDHiD/ computerize history or something . . .'* according all but dissertation, etc. Sept. '66, was appointed to Larry Wentz, a contributor to this column. assoc. dir. of the Mass Comm. Research Inst, and 
1961 

Wentz is looking forward to another summer of we have many federal grants to work on. Old 
goU wth BOB MURPHY and PAT GORMAN. 
Murph and Trish have three children now as 
do P^t and wife Fran. Pat is selling pigments 
for DuPont out of P^ramus, N.J. Larry questions 
my information about £D PAULSEN. He had 
heard that £d w*as in personnel with Afobil Oil, 
hunting the college crop. Anyone know for sure? 
AL REED is still single and still with the 

family business. Equipment and Furniture Corp. in 
Conshohocken, Pa. The word is that BASIL 
BECK is still the same old Bas! Barrister Beck 
is in Bridgetown, N.J. at 400 Atlantic St. Lt. 
BILL BROMANN and wife Dianne have five 
children. Bill, a biochemist in the USN, resides 
with the gang at 142 Barbers Point Rd., Apt. B, 
Los Alameda, Calif., 94501. LOU VON HAGEN 
and Kathy live at 6709 W. 87th St., Overland 
Park, Kan. 66212 where Lou is with the FBI. 
When FRED MOWLE completed his Air 

Force commitment, he and &fary Jane moved 
back to South Bend where Fred enrolled in the 
doctoral program in electrical engineering in 
Sept. '64. Fred was honored with a membership 
in Sigma Xi (scientific research honorary fra­
ternity) and in Jan. '66 received his doctorate. 
Son Thomas Stanley was bom Feb. 22, 1965 and 
since Feb. 1, 1966 Fred has been on the faculty 
at Purdue. I did forget to mention that both 
Fred and Mary Jane received their master's 
from ND in June '61. The Mowles can be 
found at 400 N. River Rd., Apt. 909, West 
Lafayette, Ind. 47906. In recent weeks I have 
had notes from Pat, Julie, and JACK THOMAS, 
from Mary, Julie and JOHN BELIVEAU and 
from Mary Anne, Moira, Meghan and JACK 
McGRATH. Now, I think it's time to hear 
from you. 
Finally, the Class is grieved to learn of the 

death of ADOLFO L. CASTELLON. According to 
information received in the Alumni Office, Adolfo 
died during the past year. His mother resides 
at 30 Callejon Sur, No 508, Managua, Nicaragua 
if you wish to write to her. 
JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN 
2680 Lehman Rd., Apf. 42, 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45204 

1960 
We can see seven Faults in another; Not one of our own ten 

Well, Great Balls of Fire, as W.C. used to say, there really is a RON SOWERS. After lo these many moons of baiting and cajoling, our efforts have been rewarded. Here he is folks, the last hurrah. Thanks to Ron for letting us know that he is "associated with Torbcrg, Miller and Afoss in Fort Wayne, after graduating in '65 from N D Law School. All this occurred after two years with the USMC." He and Luana (SMC '60), Julie Ann and Jennifer Lee are now settled in their new home. Having been advised by counsel, I will say nothing further except, thanks again. 
CHAPTER H: Have to get to Denver. Former ND Capt. KEN "STEIN ERICKSON" ADAM­SON is serving free beer! The one with mountain brewed water. Joyce SMC '60 writes that besides beer distributing, he scouts for the K.C. Chiefs. Boy, do they need help. Right, Green Bay fans! Joyce sa>'S they picked K.C. for the Super Bowl. If Ken was in on this he sure must have been crying in all that beer afterwards. Three kinder, Kelley, Scanne and Colleen join them for their favorite pastime, skiing. 
Other "mile high" inhabitants are DEC O'DON­NELL in private practice after two years on the staff of Gov. Love of Colorado. He's at the Petroleum Club BIdg. An old Army barracks buddy (that adjective works both ways) GREG ROGERS sends the following: "After two years with Uncle Sam, wient to U. of Penn Annenbcrg School of Communications and received &IA. Then worked as editor of the Reporter^ house organ for Penn. P & L Co., and taught writing courses at Kloravieh Col. night school. Also, was a fund raiser for the now operating ETV Station 39 in Bethlehem, Pa. Received a graduate roommates: GENE PISANO is a. lawyer and loves 
his New Orleans living. LUIS AMAYA is workins 
for an American Oil Co. in Bogota." Greg caa 
be reached at 2295 E. Asbury, Denver. 
FORE! And we're back in the Midwest. 
Starting to groove the old swing and may break 
80 this year. Would you believe 90? Biggest 
problem is attempting to control those 450-yd. 
putts. (My pro is a gorilla.) No problem though 
getting news from people like JIM HUTTON, 
who is a CPA in Valparaiso w^th Dogan Robf 
& Co. He served five years writh the go%'emment 
—two with Uncle Sam and three with Auntie 
Internal Revenue. How about these relatives! 
Jim, and Beverley Ann (Droham) have one half of 
a ND backfield, Joe and Mike, but, "the vdfe 
says we have to stop before we field an entire 
team." Another Hoosier, CHUCK RIEH&f, served 
four years Navy shore duty, completed AISEE 
at Purdue and moved to Indianapolis. That's where 
Bell Tel Labs helps to feed Chuck, Suzanne, 
Chuck HI and Steve. And a note from Bunker 
Hill. No, not Boston, Peru. No, not So. America 
—Indiana. No, not Army, but USAF Capt. D.AVE 
KfAYER MC. He was completing first-year 
internal med residency at Cleveland Vet. Hosp. 
when the call came. Wife Joan and new daughter 
Laura Ann are along for the duration. 
OTHER QUIET MEN: DICK BELMONT after six years with Navy Air is flying "American." Dick, Molly, Kathleen and Mike will be located in Highland Park, III. late this year. He reports that DOUG 2ILLIOX is baching it in San Francisco and intends to leave the Navy if "those San Francisco girls will allow it.** Judy FLAN­NERY, wife and mother of five and secretary to state representative JIM of Cleveland, would like old friends to say hello at 6907 Lawn Ave., Cleveland. Congratulations on election to Jim, who is also a partner in a Cleveland CP.A firm. LARRY MARTIN passes this information on: AIIKE DIVNEY spends his time skiing in Europe or imbibing on Cape Cod when he's not working as engineering co-ordinator for White Plains Urban Rene^val. He also manages to sit as a member of the Board of Lay Trustees for a NYC girls' college. GUINESS McFADDEN safely back from Vietnam and on his way to Portugal as an aide. JIM BYRNE has to sur­render his Lake Shore Dr. apt. as he has been named a Russell Sage scKial science reporting fellow at the U. of Wisconsin. BRUCE B.ABBITT "served a stint as a regional inspector for the OEO and after some time writing articles on Arizona folklore is back with OEO trying to bail out VISTA. In line with his gregarious nature, Bruce bought a house in a ghost town." 
BITS AND PIECES: JERRY LUKAS, wife Jo Ann and kids living near Pontiac, Mich, where he is with brakes and steering div. of Bendix. JOHN CONWAY, banking in Detroit, married to Barat grad from Detroit. LARRY THOLEN, an officer with a Wichita Savings & Loan after being an officer with Uncle Sam. He is married and has three kids. TOM ROSE in Vietnam after graduating from dental school. PAUL QUINN, father of two, employed at Fidelity Invest. Co., Wichita. 
CHOU! Watch those Italians. They're going places. At least the one who married the little Finlay lass from Ireland. They and two kids are liwng in Huntington. **Free of charge" he tells us that the PHIL O'REILLY wedding was a blast. He invites all to drop in the house, not the funeral home, when you're in town. And if an)'one knows what became of TOM &L\RTIN & JOHN TALAAfO please let an old friend, JOE DRAGO, at 18 Woodoak Lane, know. 
SNOW MORE. It's all gone, we hope. But, some people are fortunate enough to miss all the winter games. People Uke SKIP EASTERLY who has moved to Tampa with Judy and Ellen, Betsy and &fary Chris. He is an investigator in the wage and hour and public contracts div.'s field office for the US Dept. of Labor. 
LAST GASP. How does one explain to young people wliy a country that spends billions for nuclear bombs is still trying to outlaw firecrackers? No, Virginia, there really are no JULIANIs or O'MARAs. 
Auf medersekenl 

THOAAAS J. O'CONNELL 3350 Everett Rd., Lake Forest^ 
III. 60045 
WILLIAM HENNEGHAN 30556 Scrivo Dr., Warren, Midi. 48092 
Thh is the last issue pnor to the Reunion so check through the registrant list and make 
1962 
sure yoa are on it! 
JOHN MIESEL has joined the £U Lilly Co. as a senior organic chemist in the agricultural chemical research dept. at Indianapolis. RICHARD ZIEBOL has moved back to the Biidwcst where be is with Tiane Heating and Air Conditioning in La Crosse, Wis. His address is 1107 Losey Bhrd. South, La Crosse. ROBERT KENNY was recently promoted to a captain in the ^ r Force. He is information officer at Kdena Air Base on Okinawa. RICHARD COFFIN and DENNIS COONEY both received MBA degrees from St. Louis U. in February. 
JOHN McREYNOLDS JR. was recently pro­moted to USAF captain. He is an assistant staff judge advocate at Suffolk County AFB, N.Y. JOHN HARTY wrote news of the birth of his first child, Mary Colleen, May 15, 1966. He is moving to Detrmt where he will be with the firm of Touche, Ross, Bailey & Smart in their manage­ment considting activity. Lt. JOHN MADDEN is now on duty at a forward USAF combat base in Southeast Asia, where he is a HC-130 Hercules pilot and a member of the aerospace rescue and recovery service. Lt, T. F. McCARTHY and his wife Sandra, were blessed with the birth o! their second son, Trevor Alan, on Jan. 28. 
nERRE A. "PETE" HIROU iecei\-ed an MBA from Gonzaga U. last May and is currently compledng one year of management training with Sears, Roebtick & Co. in the Los Angeles area. LINZIE E. KRAMER has been admitted to the Bar in California and is now practicing law as a judge advocate with the US Air Force at Forbes AFB, Topeka. Lt. DAVID C. RICHARDSON was graduated from the Air U's Squadron Officer School, Maxwell AFB, .Ala. and was reassigned to Craig AFB, Ala. for pilot training. DAVID L. CASTALDI has been named one of 18 Baker Scholars at the Harvard Graduate School of Buaness Administration where he is in his second year working towards his master's. 
Bro. AUSTIN HALEY (MA'62) is the superior and principal of St. Patrick's School in Monrovia, Liberia, West A&ica where he is also engaged in a fund raising program prior to building a dining hall for his students. Lt. HOWARD J. SCHNEEBERGER JR. is now a pilot with the 50th Troop Carrier Squadron on duty at Kung Kuan AB, Formosa. Mr. and Mrs. J^ f FISCHER were blessed with their third child, Jill Catherine, bom Jan. 15. Jim and his wife who five at 2712 Constellation Dr. in Indianapolis, also have a son Mike and another dat^hter Jeanne. Capt. 
C. J. BEAVER JR. USMC returned from Vietnam a year ^ o and is presently serving as commanding officer. Military Police Co., at Camp Pendleton, Calif. Clay's home address is 5005 Cherry Hilb Dr., Film Springs, Calif. 
It is you who make your column interesting and successful. Remove the yellow blank card from the last ALUMNUS and use it to pass on informa­tion through your Class column. See you at the REUNION. 
TERRENCE F. McCARTHY LT. (DO USNR USNAVDENTCLINQ FPO San Francisco, Calif. 96662 

ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
1962 LAW 

I ran into JOE BIRMINGHAM in early March. Joe is married, has a baby daughter and is working at the Woolworth Bldg. opposite City Hall in Manhattan. He relayed tlie tragic news that RICHIE STRAHL, who lived in Fisher Hall during our first year, died last summer while on annual duty with the Marines on the West Coast. Apparently, Richie went to the aid of a member of his platoon who, while crossing a river, fell into the water. Despite Richie's efforts both he and the other marine were drawn under by the swift current and were drowned. GEORGE 
P. McANDREWS has been made a partner in the Chicago firm of Hair. Freeman and MoHnarc. Capt. PAUL McNELLIS is now stationed %rith the AiT Force in Fort Waj-ne, Ind. Sophie and JIM GOETH.ALS welcomed their fourth son last December. 
PAUL K. ROONEY 
U.S. Courthouse, Foley Sq., New York, N.Y. 10007 

1963 
FRANK P. DICELLO 218 Palmer Hill Rd., Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
1963 LAW 
JOSEPH R. SULLIVAN 1526 E. Cedar St., South Bend, Ind. 466U 
TOM GOEHLE is liv­ing in Detroit and attends WajTie State 
U. Tom expects to 

1964 
win his PhD in bio­chemistry shortly. Lt. ED SHERIDAN is cur-
r 
Up Front I 

COUNTRY AROUND THE WORLD 
Meritorious service at Bien Hoa AB, Vietnam, has earned for Major Frank B. Harrison '50 the Bronze Star Medal. Assigned as an aircraft maintenance advisor to the Vietnamese Air Force, Major Harrison was cited for his perfor­mance while engaged in military operations against the Viet Cong forces. He was a member of the 
rently on active duty w^th the Air Force in West Pakistan. His vafc Linda and children, Ltnda and Christopher, are also there and Ed writes that before returning to the US in Dec, *67 the family hopes to travel extensively in India and Afghanistan. At Stanford U. is PAT CALLAHAN and his new wife the former Patricia Hencfy. He is enrolled in the master's program in cini engineering. Prior to Stanford, Fat was in the Na\y. Also at Stanford is GEORGE KRAFT who is working on a PhD in history. PAUL ROSSMAN recently accepted a job with Service Bureau Corp., a subsidbry of IBM. Paul and his wife Mimi will be living in Pittsburgh. 
Long Beach, Calif, is the assignment for GEORGE ifURPHY. He just completed a tour of dutj- in Vietnam. MIKE SEXTON is flying an F-IOO Super Sabre in Vietnam and is stationed at Tuy Hoa AB. TED KONEN, sening in the Peace Corps in Africa, married Karen Rock-wood who was also there with the P.G. Both are slated to return to the States next fall. Army Lt. FRANK CORR.^DO is serving as a press officer in Nha Trang, Vietnam following a stint with the lOIst Airborne Div. His wife Karen is working at the Notre Dame Infirmary. Frank is due home in September. 
DAVID CHOW has joined the Plastics Engineer­ing Lab at the Rohm and Haas Bristol, I^. plant as an engineer in the test section. DENNIS PHIL­LIPS, s>*stems rep for automated customer services dept., has been elected assistant secretary of Ktts­bui^h National Bank. DANIEL BACHINI has been promoted to dealer parts rep for International Har\-cstcr's farm equipment division in the Phoenix area. TOM BROWN lias been named advertbing coordinator of the Jolict, Peoria and Madison, Wis. Seven-Up Bottling Co. 
KENNETH SPENGLER JR. has been awarded a fellowship which will permit him to assist for 12 weeks thb summer at a Thomas A. Dooley Foundation hospital in Laos. He is a jimior in the Boston U. School of Medicine. Lt. BILL STELZER is at Fort Belovoir with the Corps of Engineers. He graduated from MSU with a MA in geology and worked briefly with Texaco in Texas before entering the service. Bill is married to the former Susan Enbody and they have one son William Jr. 18 months old. TOM MULINAZZI 
ND MEN SERVING THEIR 
AFROTC while at the Univereity and graduated with a degree in business administration. 
Pilot and nuclear engineer Major Lewis G. Kirchner '53 was recently decorated with the Air Medal at Pleiku AB, Vietnam. He was cited for meritorious achievement during military flights. A mechanical engineering araduate of Notre 
is completing work on his PhD in civil engi­neering at Purdue. Another ci\il engineer is JIM SAK who received his MSCE from ND and is in Midland, Mich. MIKE BOHAN, working for a CPA firm in Chicago, vna married last summer to Barbara Ducey. 
JOE MARUYAMA is living in San Jose, Caltf. and worlung for Lockheed Aircraft on the Navy Polaris program. Joe is married to the former Joyce Wiest, a nurse from New York. Lt. DAVE GARNER served as artillery forward obsen*er, fire direction officer and battalion legal officer while in Vietnam. In his last letter some months ago Dave bdieved he would be assigned as an instructor in artillery at Fort Sill, Okla. when his Vietnam tour was over. FRANCIS AR­RINCIONE received an MBA in finance and transportation at Northwestern and is employed fay the E.J. and E. Railroad in Chicago as a cost accountant. Frank and his wife Maureen had a son, Daniel, last fall. HOY BOOKER is living in Nwth Palm Beach, Fla. and working for Pratt and Whitney Aircraft in Palm Beach. PETE MURRAY is also enjoying the southern hospitality of the aerospace industry. He is an economics analyst for Delta Airlines in Altanta. Pete received his MBA in tramportation economics from Wharton last year. 
GEORGE NOVAK has become employed by the Lincoln-Mcrcur)* Div. of Ford. He is associated with the Philadelphia district sales office, Camden, 
N.J. BILL RUETER is now teaching at Bishop Ireton HS in Alexandria, Va. This summer he will return to the U. of PcnnsyK-anla to continue studies toward a &I.\ in romance lan­guages. GENE LYNCH is currently a PhD candi­date in engineering at ND. His wife Judy, who received her MA in English from N D last year, is teaching at Indiana U., South Bend campus. Gene and Judy became parents of a son. Patrick Brian, last year. JIM DRURY received his MBA irom the U. of Chicago and is presently working in the supersonic transport dtv. of Boeing Air­craft in Seattle. TOM CALPIN, his wife Janice and their two children. Tommy and Colleen, are living in Pittsburgh w*here Tom is with IBM. The twins were bom last September. 
DICK GALILER is on active duty with tlie Coast Guard and will finish this May at which time 
Dame, he also holds a master's in nuclear engineering from the AF Institute of Technology and a PhD from the University of Wisconsin. 
Outstanding service as a guidance and control officer merited Capt. Albert C. Reichert '57 the Air Force Commendation Medal. His skill, knowledge and duty performance in identifying complex technolog­ical problem areas and initiating implementation of new manage­ment concepts merited him the honor. The captain was a member of the AFROTC at Notre Dame. 
Piiv. William H. Schroder Jr. '63 has established a commendable 
Ir^ 
' 
•.{^•-•. -. • .-. 
^£;. • •
Up >,;i 
rii'^v-' •• -^ J 
ii$^i?.-'\- ',"• »w"^ 
^.^ ^^^4v^ 
W^j~^^^ 
W^^'^ 
'.^:;.^r^r^ 

Harrison '50 Kirchner '53 Schroder '63 Sexton '64 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
he will return to Catholic U. in Washington, DC to finish his last year of law school. DENNIS FLYNN is at Fort Sam Houston as an officer in Adjutant General Corps. Dennis completed his MBA at Chicago last summer and shortly after his Mrtfe Afargie (SMC '64) presented him with a new son, Michael Joseph. JAMES LYNN BRUCH held a one-man showing of his art worits that he has created during his two years in residence at the U. of Southern California. He also received his master of fine arts degree from us e in June. Lt. FITHIAN SHAW has been awarded pilot's wings upon graduation at Webb AFB, Tex. and has been assigned to fly the F-4C Phantom It in the Pacific area. MARK SHER­IDAN has been promoted to 1st lieutenant in the Air Force at Brookley AFB where he is serving as a communications officer. 
JOSEPH GAYDA has earned his master's from the U. of Iowa. BILL KIERNAN also received a master's from the U. of Iowa. JAMES ROZICS (PhD '64) has been promoted to the rank of assistant prof at Loyola Col. where he is a member of the phj-sics dept. STEPHEN SOUTH has received his master's in industrial administration at Carnegie Institute of Technology. STEPHEN B. HESTER sends in a new address: 7964 Northcote Ave., Hammond, Ind. He was married to Margaret Mary Ahem on Dec. 18, 1965. At present he is stationed with the Army at Ft. Sill, Okla. and expects a tour of duty in Vietnam beginning in November. FRANCIS J. PAPP IV received his master's in mathematics from the U. of Delaware. MIKE DeSANTIS received his MBA from Rutgers. JIM LaBARBA also received an AIBA from Rutgers. 
The closing note contains some saddening news written by MATT STORM. He writes to say that NICK SCHOEN died of cancer on Aug. 25, '66 in Minneapolis, Minn. Nick was enrolled at ND only for a year, after which he transferred to the 
U. of Minnesota. During the year at ND he made many friends, all of whom share in his family's grief. 
WARREN C. STEPHENS 1100 Clove Rd., No. 5-C Staten Island, New York 
"N 

service record while still in training. He was awarded the American Spirit Honor Medal upon graduat­ing from the Army Infantry-Training Center at Fort Benning, Ga. Provided by the Citizens Com­mittee for the Army, Navy and Air Force the medal is awarded the individual who best displays qualities of leadership expressing the American spirit, honor, initia­tive, loyalty and high example to comrades in arms. Priv. Schroder holds a law degree from the Uni­versity of Virginia Law School. 
Lt. Michael L Sexton '64 has been decorated with the Distinguished Flying Cross for his bravery in military operations in Vietnam. A pilot at Phan Rang AB, Vietnam, he was cited for flying his aircraft against intense ground fire to pro­vide maximum safety to friendly forces with complete disregard for his own safety. Lt. Sexton, whose detailed account of a combat mis­sion appeared in the Jan-Feb ALUMNUS, earned his degree from the University in aeronautical engineering and was a member of the AFROTC. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
1964 LAW 
A close examination of the March-April issue of this mag no doubt disclosed to you that *'Jolly Tom Scribe" blew another deadline. So true. The excuse this time is that the Big Snow kept me in Evanston and I was unable to get to the ofiBce where I keep my voluminous correspondence from all my loyal readers. And tkat statement is really a snow job. Write, dearly beloved class­mates, or I'll commission Class poet ROBERT FROST to compose a lyrical reprimand which will be published for all to see. 
Is there any interest in the proposed Class party on Oct. 14? The first and only declaration of intent to imbibe has been received from DAVE PETRE who has also submitted a suitable reason for not attending the Duke weekend festivities (he and the family had the flu). He vows to "Make the Scene on Tcn-Fourteen." Dave also wants to know if anyone has an address for BALFE WAGNER. If so, send it to Dave, c/o Xerox Corp., Rochester, N.Y. 
CHUCK SWEENEY has been appointed a deputy St. Joseph County prosecutor and is, of course, still associated with Charles W. Roemer in private practice. Send 'em away, CHARLIE! In the "New Arrival Department'* we have two items: Judy and STEVE MORSE announce with pride tlie birth of Steven Charles on Jan. 27 and Pat and JACK JIGANTI announce with equal pride the birth of Afia on Ikfarch 2. Congratulations, parents! 
BILL FLAHERTY Is planning a six-week open hottsc beginning about May 15 when he is scheduled to move into a bachelor pad in Chi­cago's Sandburg Village. Everyone is invited but keep in mind that unless the elevator people stop striking by then you'll have to wtdk 22 floors. ERNIE ZAVODNYIK has ceased evicting poor widows and orphans for the City of Chi­cago and is now associated irith Cahill & Gallagher in private practice at 111 W. Wash­ington St., Chicago. 
This must be one of the shortest columns I've ever written and it's all your fault for not writing. Please to drop just a "leetle," small note oa four-cent postcard? Please? 
THOMAS F. CONNEELY 556 Elmwood Ave., Evanston, 
III. 60202 
After obtaining an &fS in biology, VINCE KEVAL has accepted both a public health 

1965 
services traineeship scholarship and a position in the U. of Chicago's MBA hospital administration program. Due to a congenital back cyst JOE SCHR.ADER was discharged from the Air Force, after having completed basic training and OCS. Joe is now in production supervision for Deering Milltken, the third largest textile producer in the US which is located in Spartansburg, S.C. Joe writes that LARRY O'CONNOR'S wife Ann had a baby girl, Courtney Ann, in January. Larry received his master's in finance from Michigan U. and is working for the Indiana National Bank in Indianapolis. Working for the same bank is PAT QUINN who is presently on leave of absence while serving with the Army Reserve. WALT S.\HM is employed by the American Fletcher Bank in Indianapolis. LARRY PEPPER is in his second year of law at Rutgers and is engaged to an Eastern Airlines stewardess. 
BEN FISHBURNE, who ^vas married last June, Is in his second year of law school at the U. of Virginia where he ranks number 14 In a class of 240. RON REED is playing well for the Detroit Pbtons. JIM LONGE was engaged last Christmas to Marcy Pfent of Detroit. Plans call for an October wedding. Jim is serving as senior credit analyst for the National Bank of Detroit. DICK DUFOUR reported for active duty in February at Aberdeen Proving Grounds as a lieutenant in the Ordinance Corps after receiving his MBA from Michigan U. and taking a trip to Europe. Lt. JOHN ROONEY USA Is engaged to Joanne SEXTON (MIKE's sister) and plans a May wedding in San Francisco. John is working on a classified project for the Pentagon. TIM SHAHEN will receive his master's In economics from Purdue in June. 
ARAM JARRET Is a father. His daughter, Alicia Noelle, was bom last December. Aram is a second-year law student at Georgetown U. RICK RAY reported in April for active duty in the Army OCS and subsequent ass^nment with the Ordinaoce Coips. Rick received both a wife and an MBA from Northwestern but June. TIM CSHAUGHNESSY was commissioned in the Navy and headed for Japan on a destroyer. Tim is engaged to Sheila Fisher. Lt. (jg) PHIL DUR Is attached to the staff of the Commander of the Sixth Fleet aboard the USS Little Rock and is homeportcd in Gaeta, Italy with his wife Kathy. JERRY DAUGHERTY is doing his graduate work in marine biology and oceanography at the Virginia Institute of Marine Science under a research assjstantshjp from the College of William and Mary. Jerry u also a member of the USMG reserve tmit of Itichmond, Va. 
FRANK MAY joined IBM after graduation and is now wcwking in software development for IBM's new system 360 computer. Frank is living in Yorktown Heights, N.Y. JOHN ANTON and FRANK "BUZZ" BREEN were ushers In the wedding. John is a doctoral candidate in math at Bro%ni U. and Buzzy Is in Army OCS. After completing the infantry officer's basic course, the Alibome course (where he received the outstanding leadership award) and the Ranger course, Lt. JOHN PLUNKETT served In the Airborne Raider Counter Insurgency Detachment. John now is the senior aide-de-camp to the general in charge of the United Nations Military Armistice Com­mis^on at I^nmunjom, Korea. After a leave this summer to the US, John will be assigned to Vietnam. He reports that Lt. BOB ST. CLAIR is running a supply installation for the 7th Infantry In Korea and that Ens. TOM DOTY '66 is in the Information Office, United Nations Command, Korea. 
Lt. RICHARD MCCARTHY was married in December in Philadelphia to Ritrida Ann Devlne (SMC '65) and is living In St. Louis. JOHN STANLEY ANTONGIOVANI w ^ married to Kathleen Dcvine in Philadelphia in January and is living in Bakersfield. Calif, where Stan Is a farmer. MIKE NEWBR.\ND is engaged to Clare A. Holmes of Ridgewood, N.J. and plans an August wedding. Klike Is ir. law school at the 
U. of Pennsylvania. Lt. a\RL T. SORRENTINO USAF was awarded a master's In journalism at Aflssouri U. In January. Carl Is serving in the Air Intelligence Officers Course at Lowry AFB, Denver. BOB GAENSSLEN was married to Elvira F. LOG of NYC in December. Bob is working on his PhD in biochemistry at Cornell 
U. Lt. JIM SPADONI has been selected for participation In the US.AF Medical Education IVogram for Reserve Officers. He is attending the New Jersey Col. of ^fedlclne and Dentistry. Lt. DONALD SALOMONI has completed the Air Defense Officer basic course at the US Army Defense Schfxd where he trained in the operation of the Nike Hercules missile and its firing devices. Lt. ROBERT FOSNOT has received his pilot's wings in the ^ r Force. Lt. ROBERT REASS has entered in the two-month course In applied engineering under the Air Force Institute of Tech­nology education program. He is stationed as a construction engineer at Sheppard AFB, Tex. Lt. WILLIAM O'NEILL has graduated from the U. of Southern California vrath a master's in international rcbtions. He is now assigned to LouTy AFB, Colo, as a member of the .-Mr Training Command. JOSEPH LADRIGAN has just been commissioned a second lieutenant in the Air Force. He b now at Chanute AFB, Rantoul, HI. for training as an aircraft mainte­nance officer. CARL McCLELL.-\ND has been commissioned a second lieutenant In the .Air Force and is asagned to ^finot AFB, N.D. for training and duty as an administration officer. HENRY CARIDEO was promoted to first Ileuten­ant at the US Army Ordnance Center and School, Aberdeen IVovtng Ground, Md. He is a person­
nel officer at the school. \VILLL\M FFOUTS recuved his MS from Ohio State U. 
JAMES P. HARNISCH 71 Poland Manor, Poland, Ohio 44514 
1965 lAW 
JOHN A. HAUTER 1050 Indiana Ave., Glenvtrood, 
III. 60425 

It is with great re­Naval Station in Norfolk, Va. Other 
S
TUDENT organizations at the Law 

morse that I must an­sions are IbUKE MOONEY and BILL ST. PAUL. nounce the first mili­The latter is at Moody AFB in Georgia. CARL School have completed elections tary death of a mem­PARLATORE has been commissicmcd a Second of their officers for the 1967-68 aca­
1966 
ber of our Class, Lt. and is now located at LaugbHn AFB in Del 
demic year. Dennis G. Collins is 

LARRY DIRNBERGER. LarT>- died on Feb. 24 Rio, Tex. of injuries suffered in Vietnam. It is indeed I would like to take a little :^iace from this president of the Student Bar Associa­
easy to enumerate the wonderful things that 
could be said about Larry. His winning per­
sonality, his academic performance, his athletic 
achievements and his winning attitude in all things 
arc qualities we alu-a>-s admired in him. As was 
shown in his cross-country performances and in 
his classroom work, Larry was not one satisfied 
Viith mediocrity. This attitude carried over into 
c\-eiything he attempted. It would be an under­
statement to say he Avas looked up to by cvcr^-one 
who knew him. I'm sure I express the senti­
ments of our entire Class in relating our con­
dolences to his entire family and in stating that 
lie will always be remembered in our prayers 
and that his memory will alwa>-s be honored 
and respected by those of us who had the 
pri\-ilcge to know him. 
Congratulations go out to golfer BILL REGNIER 
who has been named a sales and ser\'icc repre­
sentative for Allstate Ins. Co. and the Allstate 
Motor Club in South Bend. Congratulations are 
also in order to BILL GOULD and his wife 
Kate, whose second son was bom on Dec 23 
and to PAT SIMPSOX and his \%-ife who had 
their first child, a boy of course. Pat writes to 
tell us that the young man already looks like 
ND potential. Pat has been with Goodyear "Hre 
and Rubber Co. in their management training 
program in Akron, Ohio since June, 1966. Con­
gratulations belong also to '66crs NICK. EDDY 
and PETE DURANKO on their recent signings 
into professional football with the Detroit Lions 
and the Denver Broncos. 
MIKE DeMEO announces his engagement to ^larj'beth Dubuque a former SMCer who is now getting a master's degree in education at ND. ^like got his B.-\ last June and his engineering degree this past January*. The couple is planning a June wedding. A wedding we missed earlier was JOSEPH JANSEX's, who was %\'ed on July 23, 1966. After serving with the Air Force in San Antonio, Tex., Joe was commissioned a second lieutenant and sent to Halloman AFB, 
N.M. He is now stationed at Shcppard AFB, Tex. as a trainee in accounting and finance. 
BILL KELLEY is in the Peace Corps in southern Chile where he is li\*ing with the Mapuche Indians helping them to better their IKing conditions. Wc commend him on his dedication and wish him the best in all his wonderful endeavors. JIM "MOUSE" DOWNER, a John Marshall Law student, recently an­nounced his engagement to Kathy Coultas. The couple is planning a July 8 wedding in Spring­field, 111. Married life must be the key to good grades. FRANK MURTHA and PETE CAREY, both of whom u*erc married just before finals, finished among the top students in their re­spective law schools. Northwestern and Lo>'oIa. 
Tlic Irishmen in Chicago were entertained by MIKE CARRIGAN and his guitar on St. Patrick's Day. ^like lessened the sorrow they felt in spending their first St. Pattj-'s Day away from Sweeney's. STEVE KNAUF just returned from three montlis in Europe after taking leave from Phillips Petroleum. Most of his \'acation was spent skiing in Switzerland which comes as no surprise. Steve is now in Army OCS at Fort Dix. BOB RONIN is attending Northwestern working for his MB.\. Bob graduated with a BS in mechanical engineering last June. MIKE RODDY finished Ordnance Officer's basic course at Aber­deen Proving Ground, Aid. and is now a student at the .Army Guided Missile School at Redstone Arsenal in Hunts\ille, Ala. He has aspirations of soon becoming a missile maintenance officer. 
CHARLES BRADY has been commissioned a second lieutenant in the Air Force and is now at Kccsler AFB, Miss, for training as a ground electronics oflicer. ST.ANLEY COLLIG.AN has also been commissioned and is at the same base as a weapons controller. CLAIRBORNE PER­RILLIAT has been commissioned in the Air Force and is now at Amarillo AFB, Tex. as a supply operations officer. JOHN KUMINECZ has been commissioned in the Air Force and is now at Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. for training as an information officer. 
article to wish the best of luck on his forth­
coming marriage to a member of the Class of 
'65 who b also a fellow ALUMNUS reporter, JIM 
HARNISCH. It has been my privilege to become 
dose friends with both Jim and his lovely fiancee 
Kathy Bayer, a 1966 graduate of St. Mary's. 
Bear and Bayer (pronounced the same) are un­
doubtedly two of the most charming and enjoy­
able people I have ever known. I sincerely wish 
them both continued happiness and the best of 
everjthing that life has to offer. The couple will 
be married in New York on June 24. Jim is 
currently in his second year of medical school at 
Ohio State and Kathy is presently employed by 
Time-Life publications in New York. 
I extend to all of you who are still in school 
my wishes for success in your upcoming final 
exams. One more school year out of the way! 
RICHARD ANGELOni 1404 Greenfield Dr., Erie, Pa. 16512 
1966 LAW 
BOB KRAUSE has joined the ranks of m marrieds. The celebrated event took place in Detroit on Kfarch 4- Your roving reporter, in the midst of an interviewing sojourn with his wife, was privileged to be a member of the wedding party. JIM HEIMBUCH '65L was best man. JOE DELLA MARIA motored in from Chicago to aid in the celebration. He made Lu Ann's day complete by catching the garter. Bob and Terri were duly dispatched for a wedc in Bermuda, following which they will set up house in Detroit where Bob is practiong m ^ Dickinson, Wright, McKcan & Cudlip. 
One Joe Delia Maria also appeared at BOB MURPHY'S St. Patrick's day "beerathon" proving once and for all that Joe will go to any length for a party. He was accompanied by STEVE WEIDNER '65L who is married to Joe's uster Kate. The ND Law School's Chesaprake Bay crew turned out in force to sing the praises of the Irish, as it did to welcome Pat and MARTY IDZIK to the area two weeks earlier. Please let us know when business or pleasure brings yon to the Washington scene. Our numbers are grow­ing every day (the JAG men are beginmng to attend school and take up stations in the area) and the welcome mat is always out. 
Neu^ of the month pbces STEVE SEALL with the South Bend firm of Oare, Tbomburg, McGill & Deahl. Lt. DENNY DEE has com­pleted Army Armor School at Fort Knox success­fully passing through the hatch of even the smallest tank. TOM KENNEY has enlisted in the six months' program of Army Intelligence. After completing his clerkship with the Mar^dand Court of .Appeals, he will associate with Venable, Baetjer & Howard in Baltimore. Please keep the neu3 coming, particularly changes of address. 
For those of you who have not as yet been notified. Dean O'&feara has announced his re­tirement. The task of naming a successor should be completed by the end of the semester. If the next dean serves Notre Dame with the dedication of Dean O'Meara, we mil be fortunate indeed. 
FRANK GREGORY 7403 Keystone Lane Forestville, Md. 20028 
A strong factor in the success of the Uni­ver^ty is the fact that the bonds which exist 
1967 
among members of the Class do not end with the graduation ceremony. With ^ling here and graduation approaching, few of us are worrying about keeping in contact with other members of the Class in coming yean. Howe\'er, when we find the various ties that we have made during the last four years bitten and ourselves in different circumstances, it may be 
tion; Frank H. Smith editor-in-chief of the Notre Dame Lawyer; James Hancock director of the Legislative Drafting Service; Peter T. King thesaurarius of Gray's Inn; Terrance Kelly director of the Legal Aid and Defender Association; and Emilio V. Belluomini Jr. president of Moot Court. All of these student leaders will be in the third-year class. 
Mr. Collins, Rochester, N.Y. is a graduate of the University of Dayton; Mr. Smith, of Trmnbull, Conn., is a Notre Dame grad; Mr. Hancock, of Silver Spring, Maryland, is a graduate of the University of Nevada; Mr. Kelly, Decorah, Iowa, graduated from Loras College; and Mr. Belluo­mini, Galveston, Texas, is a Notre Dame graduate. 
The executive vice-president of the SBA is James J. Barba, Glenmount, N.Y., Sienna College; the secretary is Theodore J. Wessel Jr., Indianapolis, 
U. of Dayton; the treasurer is James 
E. Cooling, Hazlewood, Mo., U. of Missouri; and the third- and second-year representatives are Steve J. Madonna, New Providence, N.J., LaSalle and John M. Dwyer, Jersey-ville. 111., Notre Dame. 
The Lawyer's executive editor is Dennis C. Thelen, Queens, N.Y., lona; its' articles editors are James H. Seckinger, New Rockford, N.D., St. John's (Minn.) and Charles Weiss, Perryville, Mo., U. of Missouri. Case editor is Hugh C. Griffin, Chicago, Loyola; the development and manag­ing editors are Michael S. Williamson, Terre Haute, Ind., Notre Dame and William T. Coleman, Riverside, 111., Notre Dame. William H. Seall, South Bend, S t Mary's (Minn.) is note editor and Robert J. Wilczek, Chi­cago, U. of Dayton is book-review and survey editor. 
successful in this, ve will need the coopexation of everyone. 
We have asked eight men who vnl\ be in different parts of the country to keep in touch «ith us regularly. BILL RAGEN will be at the 
U . of W)-oming in Laramie; in the California area contact RICH DINALLO at 533 Ocean Ave., Santa Monica; JOE BROUSSARD will be at 2533 Ashley Ave., Beaumont, Tex.; MIKE STOKES will be studying law at St. Louis U.; BILL HANIGAN will be at 10036 S. Bell in Chicago; MIKE O'CONNELL will be studying law at the U of Connecticut; KEVIN HILL wiU be at the U. of Miami studying chemistry; and I, of course, will be in the New York area. If you are in any of these areas, it would be appreciated if you would occasionally drop us a note telling us where you are and what you are doing. Without your assistance a successful communication bctu-een the members of the Class 

Three Class of '66ers have had Ensign added a matter not only of convenience but also interest caimot cdst. to their names. These are: KEN KRIVICKAS to be able to discover the locations and activities 
JOHN J. HUGHES 

who is at the US Na\-y Supply Corps School of \'ariou5 friends. To facilitate thb a Class in Athens, Ga.; BOB LABRECQUE who is at the column will appear in every issue of the ALUIENUS 
99 W. 37th St. 

US Na^-al Nuclear Power School in Vallcjo, which will contain information concerning the Calif.; and JOHN LIENHARD who is at the members of the Class. If we are going to be Bayonne, N.J. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 

Vice-thesaurarius of Gray's Inn is Thomas M. Ward, Monongahela, Pa., 
U. of Pennsylvania; its master of revels is Bryan J. Hughes, Malene, 
N. Y., Providence and Hugh F. Mundy, Brooklyn, King's College is keeper of the black book. Appointments. Prof. G.Robert Blakey has been named counsel for the states of Oregon and Massachusetts and for the National Association of District Attorneys, amici curiae, in Berger v. New York, an appeal contesting the validity of a state statute permitting police officers to engage in electronic surveillance on judicial warrant. His brief argues the validity of the statute. A consultant, especially on electronic surveillance, to the President's Com­mission on Crime he testified in April before both House and Senate com­mittees considering the administra­tion's "Right to Privacy" bill. 
Another Supreme Court case. Loving V. Virginia, an appeal con­testing the Virginia antimiscegena­tion statute, was argued in April. Rev. William M. Lewers CSC was counsel in that case for 15 Catholic bishops and for the National Catholic Conference on Interracial Justice. He filed an amicus brief in support of the appellants. Grant. The Council on Professional Responsibility of the Association of American Law Schools announced in March a second substantial grant in support of the Law School's eifort to involve its students in the real-life problems of the community. The most recent grant, for $20,680, will finance the summer employment of 20 second-and third-year students in legal projects. 
Three students will involve them­selves in civil rights work in the South imder the direction of Father Lewers. Six students will be employed in the offices of the St. Joseph County Public Defenders imder the direction of Professors Conrad C. Kellenberg and Thomas L. Shaffer. Four, under Professors Robert E. Rodes Jr. and 
G. Robert Blakey, will work for the St Joseph County Prosecutor. Four students imder Assistant Dean Thomas 
F. Broden Jr. KSG and Professor 
THOMAS 
I 

L. 
I Law School

SHAFFER 
Kellenberg will work with migrant workers in the South Bend area. Two under Dean Broden and Prof. Shaf­fer will work for the South Bend Human Relations Council and two others imder Dean Broden and Prof. Kellenberg will work in the Neighbor­hood Law Office in South Bend. The Law Office positions are financed separately out of "war on poverty" funds. 
The Council gave a $3,600 grant to the Law School's Legal Aid and Defender Association in January to finance its work for indigent prisoners at the Indiana State Prison. One student is given summer employment under that grant. Many other stu­dents in both second- and third-year classes will spend the summer in private law offices and on the legal staffs of government agencies and corporations. Faculty and Alumni. Dean Broden was given one of three Brotherhood Awards by the South Bend Chapter, National Conference of Christians and Jews. The annual awards, one of which is to a community leader who is a Catholic, recognize his efforts to im­prove human relations and to foster good will while identifying with his own religious group. 
John Gildea '60, '63L was elected assistant secretary of Miles Laborato­ries, Inc., Elkhart in April. He has been an attorney for the corporation since lais graduation from Ae Law School. 
Capt. David M. Constantino '65L serves as division legal assistance officer and foreign claims officer at Chu Lai Combat Base, Vietnam. He has been in the Marine Corps since shortly after graduating from the Law School and is one of several recent graduates who are now legal and combat officers in the Vietnam war. 
Prof. John J. Broderick co-chaired the annual Union-Management Con­ference on the campus April 7. It was the 15th year for this nationally respected meeting of leaders of labor and industry. Prof. Broderick was given a special 20-year award by the Air Force ROTC unit on campus at ceremonies celebrating the 20th birth­day of the Air Force April 7. Cadets in the corps presented a plaque to Prof. Broderick, who is in his 20th year on the Notre Dame faculty, and hailed "his youthful vitality and his generous guidance during our careers. No man," the awarding cadet said, "has given of himself with greater enthudasm to the students of Notre Dame." Prof. Broderick also toured Cape Keimedy in February as a guest of the ROTC unit and inspected the Air Force aerospace program there. He and Prof. Shaffer, along with ROTC Commander Col. Victor Ferrari and the University's Associate X^ce-President iar Academic Affairs, Dr. Thomas Stewart, toured the Special Air Warfare Center at Hurl­burt Field, Florida as representatives of the University. 
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Fannann, the Law School's librarians, and Prof. Shaffer represented the Law Schocd at the Diamond Anniversary of Ohio State University School of Law in Columbus in April. 

E.V.BelluominiJr. Dennis Collins Peter King Frank Smith Ttrranet Kelly James Hancock 
ALUMNUS MAY 19«7 JUNE 
UIVD NIGHT 

Typical of Universal Notre Dame Nights around the world was the gathering of 7tiore than 600 Cleveland Club Alumni who joined beneath a replica of the Dome to celebrate the 44th annual observance. From coast to coast and around the world, in grand ballronu and favorite restaurants and clubs, thousands of Alumni and friends assembled to toast the University's 125th year. Outstanding Alumni and community leaders were special guests as numerous Clubs awarded accolades to their Man of the Year. Capping the festivities for a nmjority of the 7neetings were campus representatives who shared with Alumni throughout the world their intimate knowledge of Notre Dayne today. 
1967 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
f I ^HE occasion of the University s 125th am ersaiy 
-*- lent a special air of festivity to Universal Notre 
Dame Night—1967. Alumni and friends in over 100 
cities throughout the world gathered to mark the 44th 
annual UND Night and to hear University speakers 
trace the evolution and projection of Notre Dame's 
stature in the academic world. 
Initiated in 1924 to pro\'ide an occasion for Alumni 
to call to the attention of their communities the excel­
lence of Notre Dame in her academic and ser\'ice 
programs, UND Night has grown in relevance to be­
come the principal event on the Alumni Club calendar. 
This year Univenity administrators, deans, pro­
fessors and coaches were joined by prominent Alumni 
in exploring the UND Night theme, "Notre Dame : 125 
Years." Emphasis was on evaluating the original nature, 
purpose and problems of the University in light of the 
rapid e-xpansion and striving for excellence that char­
acterize contemporary' Notre Dame. Thousands of 
Alumni heard a challenge issued for enthusiastic and 
loyal involvement in all phases of the University's con­
tinued growdi. 
Traditionally observed on the first Monday after 
Easter, TJND Night celebrations this year ranged from 
March 27 through June 9 as Clubs from Puerto Rico 
to Pakistan and Buffalo to Los Angeles met under a 
variety of accommodations and circimistances to toast 
the University's first century and a quarter. 
Cocktail hours, dinners and dances were often sup­plemented by the election and installation of new Club officers and viewing of the "1966 Football Highlights." Spotlighting a majority of UND Night celebrations were the awarding of Man of the Year scrolls to outstanding Alumni and leading citizens in recognition of their con­tributions to their community and Notre Dame. From New England to Mid-Atlantic States. Kicking-off East Coast celebrations were Bostonhes who gathered April 1 at the Statler-Hilton in the largest turnout ever recorded by die Club. Speakers Coach Ara Parseghian and Professor Frank O'Malley captivated the more than 600 guests who included novelist Edwin O'Cormor '39, City Council President Barry HjTies '60 and Alumnus Emeritus Msgr. Cornelius Donovan '09. Robert L. Marr '58, construction equipment executive and past president of die Boston Club, was named Man of the Year. 
BOSTON Robert L. Marr '58 ERIE Thomas W. Barber LLB '24 TRIPLE CITIES Msgr. Francis J. Harrison '33 PHILADELPHIA miliam A. Whiteside '51 
The Holiday Inn South was the scene where Erie Clubbers April 3 heard Rev. Thomas O'Donnell CSC, assistant rector of Moreau Seminary, extoll the Uni­versity's growth. Man of die Year Judge Thomas \V. Barber LLB '24 shared the limelight with high school and gi-ade school football awardees, Dennis Satyshur and Daniel Anysz. 
Meeting four days later at the Hotel Frederick in Endicott, N.Y., Triple Cities Club members honored Msgr. Francis J. Harrison '33, pastor of St. Patrick Church and member of various influential diocesan commissions, as Man of the Year. Assistant Alumni Secretaiy James D. Cooney was the evening's featured speaker. Jim Cooney was on hand the following day to 
4? 
Robert Michaud '50, Jim Armstrong '25, Herb Jones '27 and Edward McCarthy '53 
UND NIGHT 
1967 

Ray Broderick '35 
address the 40 members of the Central New York Club at their dinner meeting at the LeMoyne Manor in Liver­pool, N.Y. 
Williamson's atop the Barclay Building hosted several hundred Philadelphiam who paid Man of the Year honors to former Club President William A. Whiteside '51. Joining Jim Cooney on the speaker's podium was Club member Lt. Governor Ray Broderick '35. April 15 saw Buffalo Alumni meeting at the Hotel Statler to hear University Vice-President for Public Relations and De­velopment James W. Frick survey the Notre Dame scene. Judge Anthony W. Brick '36 presented Man of the Year honors to Henry Bums '29, past Club president who was instrumental in encouraging many Alumni to 
BUFFALO  Henry Bums  '29  
JERSEY  SHORE  Dr. George McDonnell  '29  
CENTRAL  NEW  JERSEY  ..John  R. Mullen  '53  
HARRISBURG  Raymond  Broderick  '35  

attend Notre Dame. Also on the docket for the evening were the installation of new officers and the presentation of a scholarship fund check by the women's group. 
Fairfield County Alumni selected the Norwalk (Conn.) Motor Inn as the site of their April 16 get-together •with guest speaker Jim Cooney. Two days later 
Jersey Shore Club members gathered to honor Dr. George McDonnell '29 as their Man of the Year. Featured speaker at the Barclay Hotel meeting was Edward "Moose" Krause, University athletic director. More than 100 Central New Jerseyites chose the Plain­field Country Club for theu: April 22 UND Night celebration. Named Man of the Year was John R. Mullen '53, founder of the Club's scholarship fund, and counsel and assistant secretary of the general law division of Johnson & Johnson. 
The month of May saw three Eastern Clubs mark UND Night with the recently reactivated Harrisburg Club leading off on the 3rd. Over 150 persons gathered at the West Shore Country Club to honor Pennsylvania 
Frank P. Fogarty George G. Kerver '22 
Men of the Year were in the news throughout the 
country as local Clubs cited Alumni and commu­
nity leaders. In the East, Pennsylvania Lt. Governor 
Ray Broderick '35 was Harrisburg's nominee while 
Cleveland Alumni singled out George Kerver '22 
for honors. On campus the St. Joseph Valley 
Club proclaimed Herbert E. Jones '27 their top 
man. Martin D. Johnson was feted as Man of the 
Lt. Governor Ray Broderick '35 as Man of the Year and to hear Alumni Association President Ambrose "Bud" Dudley and ND assistant director of public relations James V. Gibbons speak on the forward-looking Uni­versity programs. Alumni met in the Pittsburgh Press Club May 8 to welcome to the speaker's stand Rev. Jerome Wilson CSC, vice-president for business affairs, and Bishop Wright of the Pittsburgh diocese. Closing out the East Coast celebrations were Rochester Alumni who received some inside notes from Assistant Football Coach John Ray at their May 11 meeting at Eddie's Chop House. Journey from DC fo Flericia to "Bluegrass" Counhy. Moving South UND Night festivities drew large at­tendance as a number of Clubs joined in the traditional observance. Leading off on April 19 was the Washing­ton, DC Club which chose the Edward D. White Banquet Hall in Arlington for its dinner meeting. Selected as this year's Man of the Year for his out­standing contribution to the work of the Club was Cliff Letcher '40. Sharing the speaker's stand were Alumni Association Secretary James E. Armstrong and Major General Francis L. Sampson '37, the famous "paratrooper padre." A special feature of the evening was the presentation of a plaque to outgoing president Walter Brennan. 
Richmond's SchralTt's Virginia Inn was the site for the Virginia Club celebration as 75 members honored Mayor Morrill M. Crowe as their Man of the Year. 
VIRGINIA Morrill M. Crowe 
WASHINGTON, DC Cliff Letcher '40 
GREATER MIAMI Rau Popp 
KENTUCKY Joseph Bowling '52 
MC for the evening, Frank Soden, general manager and sptorts announcer for the Richmond Braves, pre­sented University representative Jim Gibbons. The Notre Dame-Virginia award for outstanding leadership in the Club was presented to Bernard Nierle. Fort Lauderdale Alumni observed UND Night April 29 as part of their three-day Notre Dame Convention. Jim Armstrong was on hand at the Plantation in Crystal River to offer a view of ND 1967. Two days earlier he met with Club members from Greater Miami at their dinner in the Country Club of Coral Gables. Ray Popp 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 

Herman Kriegshauser Richard King '37 '55 
Jim Morse '57, Jim Lynch '67 and BiB Wolsti '66 
Year in Fort Wayne. And in Omaha, Frank P. 
Fogarty joined the ranks of honorees. 
Football was uppermost in the minds of Muskegon 
Alumni as three former Fighting Irish joined the 
celebrations. Noteworthy Men of the Year in the 
Midwest were St. Louis candidate Herman Kreig­
shauser '55 and Dearborn's choice, Dick King '37. 
In Buffalo top honors went to Henry Burns '29. 
'38 was selected Man of the Year. Special guest at the Kentucky Club gathering April 10 was Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh CSC, University president, who was named an honorary Kentucky colonel and presented with a silver mint julep cup. The largest attendance in Club history, over 280, filled the Canterbury Room of Louisville's Executive Inn to hear Father Hesburgh and to honor Joseph Bowling '52 as Man of the Year. High school seniors Art Hipwell and Gene Bailey were named joint scholarship winners. UND Nights in the Midwest. The Midwest, long a Notre Dame population stronghold, saw a full calendar of UND Nights scheduled as Alumni in a seven-state area staged a variety of events to commemorate the Uni­versity's 125th anniversary. One of the earliest ob­servances was held by the Calumet Club which met March 27 at Phil Smidt's Restaurant. Jim Cooney ^vas guest speaker for the evening. Combining efforts, more than 650 Dearborn and Detroit Club members were entertained after dinner by Coach Parseghian's oratory. 
Detroit's Latin Quarter was the scene March 31 as Dearborn Club founder Richard King '37 was named Man of the Year. 
DEARBORN Richard King '37 JNDIANAPOUS Leo A. Bamhorst '49 CLEVELAND George G. Kerver '22 
April 3 at the Indianapolis Athletic Club found that city's Alumni gathering for a dinner honoring Leo A. Bamhorst '49, an insurance company executive, as Man of the Year. A large crowd was on hand to hear Dr. Thomas P. Carney, Alumni Association honorary presi­dent, review the Notre Dame situation. Also on schedule for the evening were the presentation of scholarships to three students and the installation of new Club officers. Highlighting the Cleveland Club's April 3 observance was the celebration of the Club's 50-year anniversary. More than 600 Alumni and guests crowded the Sheraton Hotel ballroom to hear a "state of the university" ad­dress by Father Hesburgh and to honor George G. Kerver '22, host of the Club's annual weekend retreat, as Man of the Year. 
The following day the Eastern Illinois Club met at Danville's Holiday Inn for dinner, the election of officers and a viewing of the "1966 Football Highlights." Across 
Henry L. Bums '29, Robert At. Bennett '62, lames W. Frick 'SI and Judge Anthony Brick '36 
the border on the same night Fort Wayneis welccaned guest speaker Tom Carney to their Orchard Ridge Country Club gathering. Man of the Year for the Fort Wayne Club was Martin D. Johnson. Meeting April 5 at Logan's Steak House, the Canton Club chose Ed­ward A. Machuga *55, Club treasurer and assistant product manager for Diebold, Inc., as their Man of the Year. On hand to fill Club members in on Notre Dame was Father O'Donnell. One night later Toledo Aliunni hosted Professor Hugh O'Brien of the sociology depart­ment at the Sylvania Country Club. 
FORT WAYNE Martin D. lohnson CANTON Edward A. Machuga '55 TOLEDO Harold H. Munger '15 MUSKEGON George Liddle ST. LOUIS Herman Kriegshauser '55 
Football Captain Jim Lynch entertained more than 60 Muskegon Clubbers at their April 7 dinner in the Lakos Restaurant. Selected Man of the Year was George Liddle, retiring city manager, whose son George Jr. is a 1958 graduate. One day later St. Louis Alumni began their celebration with an evening Mass at St. Joseph's Church. Celebrant was Rev. Edward Keller CSC of the University's department of economics, who was also guest speaker for the evening. Moving on to the Colony Hotel for cocktails and dinner, the Club honored Herman Kriegshauser '54, former president, secretary-treasurer and chairman of the Club, as Man of the Year. The evening's festivities drew to a close wth a late-night dance. The same night farther up the River, Tri-Cities Club members hosted Jim Gibbons as over 200 Alumni and friends celebrated at the Outing Club in Davenport, Iowa. 
SKII More Midwest CelebraHon. Nearly 100 Alumni turned out at the Rockford University Club April 11 as then- Club welcomed guest speaker Roger Valdiserri, 

IVIGHT 
1967 

Rallying more than 500 Alumni and friends, the Boston Club turned out in grand style to commemo­rate UND Night. A few weeks later twin spot­
director of sports information. Sharing the guest spot was David Shanahan of the University Foundation's Chicago office. Man of the Year for the Rockford Club was editor and publisher William K. Todd. Past presi­dent Robert Do\vner came in for his share of the honors as Club members awarded him special recognition. Journeying to Peoria the following day, Roger Valdi­serri met with Alumni in that city for a Country Club dinner celebration. More than 100 were on hand to hear MC Chuck Perrin '51 introduce Man of the Year, John E. Cassidy Jr. '48, attorney and freshman rep­resentative to the Illinois House. A highlight of the evening was the presentation of the Enio Arbroit trophy to the Pekin High School football team. 
ROCKFORD William K. Todd PEORIA John E. Cassidy Jr. '48 ELKHART __ Matthew Ronzone '35 ST. JOS. VALLEY, IND. .Herbert E. Jones '27 CHICAGO ..Edward V. Hanrahan '43 
Closest to home tlie Notre Dame Alumni of St. Joseph Valley met April 13 on campus at the Center for Continuing Education. Jim Armstrong was featured guest and Herb Jones, athletic business manager, copped Man of the Year honors. April 17 saw 55 Alumni in Elkhart present their first Man of the Year award to Matthew Ronzone '35, Elkliart HS track coach. Jim Frick was on hand at the Italian-American Club to report on the Universit}'. The Decatur Club chose the same night to host Dean Lawrence Baldinger of the College of Science as 33 members assembled at the Ambassador Motor Inn. Squaw Creek Country Club was the site of the Youngstown festivities as basketball 
lights in Chicago were focused on Man of the Year Edward V. Hanrahan '43 and Decency in Enter­tainment Award winner Ray Bolger. On hand in Kansas City to congratulate Man of the Year Russell 
J. Farrell '48 was University representative Dr. George N. Shuster. At Rockford's celebration in the University Club, William K. Todd received the Man of the Year scroll. A large force of over 70 Alumni gathered in Dacca, Pakistan to hear Archbishop Theotonius Ganguly. 
n^iiiih 
mentor Johnny Dee addressed the April 19 gathering. Stronghold in Chicago. Windy City Club members filled the Grand Ballroom of Chicago's Conrad Hilton Hotel as more than 900 Alumni and friends welcomed University President Father Hesburgh. Presentations highlighted the program as three major awards were bestowed. Named Man of the Year was EdNrard V. Hanrahan '43, US attorney for Northern Illinois. Song and dance man Ray Bolger walked off with this year's Decency in Entertainment prize and Dr. Thomas Carney was cited for his outstanding sers'ice to the Universit)'. The Club also donated $6,000 to the ND scholarship fund and the Women's Au.xiliary added another $3,000. Within hvo days the Ohio Valley Club held its annual dinner at Figaretti's Supper Club in Wheeling, W. Va. Initiating a new program procedure, Club members held an informal discussion on the state of the Universit)' in lieu of a formal speaker. The Steinhaus in Lansing provided the setting for that city's get-together April 28. Guest speaker Jim Cooney briefed Club members on Notre Dame today before a showng of the "1966 Foot­ball Highlights." A diimer-dance at Undenvood Court in Wauwatosa was on the schedule for Milwaukeeans observance of UND Night April 29. Closing out the celebrations in the Midwest were members of the Green Bay and Appleton Clubs who banded together for a joint observance on May 8. Special guests at the Zuider Zee Supper Club were "Moose" Krause and 
1967 Football Captain Bob Bleier. On to Kansas City and Points West. West of the Mis­sissippi UND Night met with one of the largest turnouts on record as Clubs from Missouri to Washington marked 
ALUMNUS MAY 19(57 JUNE 

Russell J. Farrell '48, San DiGiovanni '36, Dr. GeorgeShuster '15, Chuck O'Neill '57 
William K. Todd Most Rev. Theotonius Ganguly PhD '51 
the 44th annual observance. April 5 members of the Kansas City Club opened far Western celebrations as 100 Alumni assembled in tlie city's Commerce To\ver. Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president, took the speaker's stand to bring Club members up to date on the University's progress. Kansas City Man of the Year was Russell J. Farrell '48. Kansans from the Wichita area congregated in the Wichita Club April 8 for their dinner meeting with Brother Raphael Wilson CSC, director of admissions, as principal speaker. The Blackstone Hotel was the site April 11 of the Omaha 
KANSAS CITY Russell J. Farrell '48 
OMAHA AND COUNCIL 

BLUFFS Frank P. Fogarty and Council Bluffs get-together. Nearly 150 persons hosted guest speaker Father O'Donnell and applauded Man of the Year choice, Frank P. Fogarty, president of the Meredith Broadcasting Company. Special awardee Herbert Sampson '50 was cited for his service on the national Alumni Board. In appreciation for their nine-season coverage of all ND games, radio station KBON and the ABC network were the recipients of a special Club award. 
April 20 was the date Alumni from Colorado Springs assembled at the Ent Air Force Base Officers' Club to hear of the University's growth from Dr. William Burke, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. The following day Dean Burke shared the Denver spotlight with Colonel Rafalko, athletic director of the USAF Academy and long-time friend of ND Alumni. Over 200 were on hand at the Petroleum Club for the festivities including special guest Mayor Tom Currigan '41. New Mexico's Sunroom was filled as Alumni met with Direc­tor of Publications John H. Janowski. Rallies from Washington to Southern California. West Coast festivities centered around Washington and Oregon in mid-April as Alumni in the latter state con­gregated in Portland on the 10th to hear Brother Wilson tell them of Notre Dame. Washingtonians from the western half of the state met with Brother Wilson April 11 in Seattle's Black Angus restaurant while those in Spokane rallied one of the greatest attendances on record the follo\ving evening. Brother Wilson was again featured speaker at the Spokane House celebrations feting Richard St. John '56 as Man of the Year. 
The Golden State of California was host to a number of UND Night observances as Alumni from the North' and South took part in the annual festivities. University Executive Vice-President Edmund P. Joyce CSC ad­dressed Los Angeles Alumni gathered in the Blossom Room of the Hollyivood Roosevelt Hotel April 3. Among those in the audience were special guests Deputy 
SPOKANE _ .Richard St. John '56 
SAN DIEGO .John V. Naish 
Mayor Joseph Quinn and Police Chief Thomas Reddin. The Northern California Club joined with their neigh­bors in San Jose to celebrate UND Night with Father Joyce in Burlingame's Hyatt House. Nearly 100 attended the April 5 festivities and heard the announcement of a new name for the Northern Alimmi — the San Francisco Bay Area Club. The Del Prado Restaurant in the state capital was the site of an April 19 meeting of Sacramento Alumni. John Janowski reviewed the Notre Dame academic scene while "1966 Football High­lights" gave an athletic view. 
And Festivities in Other Lancb. Beyond the contuiental borders Alumni throughout the world joined in celebrat­ing UND Night making it a truly universal occasion. Ten foreign Clubs, including Berlin, London, Venezuela, Ecuador and Vienna took part in this year's observance. Holding a most successful event was the ND Club of Pakistan where 70 persons gathered April 6 at Mathis House at Notre Dame College in Dacca. Enjoying two films at the affair catered by the Inter-Continental Hotel were special guests Brother Fulgence Dougherty CSC, religious superior of the Brothers and Rev. Robert McKee CSC, religious superior of priests. Also on hand to enjoy the "1966 Football Highlights" and "Notre Dame Story" was Archbishop Theotonius Ganguly. 
Panama Club members held their celebration April 8 at the Albrook Field Ofiicers' Club. Special guest for the evening was Bishop Carlos Le%vis, auxiliary of Panama. Ernest Massimine '34 outlined the Notre Dame picture at the April 29 Colombia Club observance. The finale for the 44th Universal Notre Dame Night will be supplied by the Puerto Rico Club as they meet June 9 for their annual observance. 

Sports 

ALL SYSTEMS ARE "GO" 
THE beginning of a new football season poses any number of prob­lems for the coach and team. But the situation is greatly compounded when this same coach and team are number one in the nation. ThiSj exactly, is the kind of pressure Ara Parseghian and his 1967 Fighting Irish ivill face this fall as the obsession to upend the reigning campions in­tensifies with one opponent after an­other. The question now is how many teams on Notre Dame's 10-game schedule have the ability equal to such a desire, for there is little doubt that the Fighting Irish once again are loaded with all the offensive and defensive guns to capture another national title. This was unmistakably clear May 6 when the Varsity pasted the Old-Timers 39-0 before college scouts and ABC's nationwide cameras. What spotters from California and Purdue as well as the country's armchair foot­ballers saw gave little solace to this year's Irish opposition. Basically, they found the same championship team, matured by a year and bolstered by a number of freshmen whose potential could easily have ND fans forget die gaps created by this year's senior graduating class. 
Spring practice, barring the in­temperate whims of the weatherman and the curse of an unending list of injuries to key players, brought forth encouraging prospects for Notre Dame repeating as college gridiron champs. The duel between Terry Hanratty and Coley O'Brien for quarterbacking honors continues. With both showing equal poise in running the ball club and both demonstrating pinpoint 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
• •i •' •• ' J --• ' "• 
RENE TORRADO Bootless rookie with lots of kick 

aerial accuracy, it becomes quite likely 
that Parseghian this year will alter­
nate them at the field general's slot. 
This proved not only ^vorkable during 
the Old-Timers game, but the com­
bination resulted in several successful 
TD drives. 
Irish fans were treated likewise to 

several surprises at the 37th annual 
spring game. The unexpected pass-
catching ability of Paul Snow, brother 
of 1964 Ail-American Jack Snow, 
thrilled the 22,000 fans in attendance, 
especially on the last play of the game 
when he hauled in a 42-yard bomb 
from O'Brien for the game's closing 
tally. Snow got his chance to perform 
when Jim Seymour was sidelined with 
a shoulder injury. 
The 1967 Irish will get another plus tliis year when sophomore bare­foot kicker Rene Torrado assumes the punting chores. The slim 167 pounder from Bal Harbour, Fla., who wears a 95/2 EEE, punted four times in the game for 181 yards, an average of more than 45 yards. 
As Ara unveiled his fourth edition of the Fighting Irish, many new names and unknown quantities were spotlighted, many of which will be given starting roles this fall. 
\Vhere All-American Jimmy Lynch vacated his inside linebacker position, a 6-0, 230, freshman from Superior, Wis., Bob Olson has filled the gap beside the all-veteran wave of John Pergine, Dave Martin and Mike McGill. And at right defensive end, where the familiar number 81 of Alan Page appeared so inpenetrable for three years, Kevin Hardy, last year's biggest of the front four, has been shifted to where, more than likely, he will become the smallest of the front four. Pushing Hardy out of his familiar tackle spot and also filling the All-American Peter Duranko's slot are heavier weights Eric Norri 
(6-2, 240), Mike McCoy (6-5, 270) 
and backup man Bob Jockisch (6-3, 
260). 
On the other side of the line, the job of replacing graduating seniors is more acute. Time only wll tell if anyone can replace the likes of Nick Eddy and Larry Conjar. Two new faces are making every effort to chal­lenge that reputation. At fullback Ron Dushney was a genuine surprise all spring, while Dan Harshman ably carried the ball at halfback. 
On the offensive line the competi­tion is keener than ever. Sophomore Bob Kuchenberg and freshman Terry Brennan seem to have the edge at tackle over Ed Tuck, Dick Swatland, Rudy Konieczny and Mike Kuzmicz. 
PARSEGHIAN and HANRATTY 
No. 1 combination again this year? 
While at guards, the nod now goes to Roger Fox and Tom McKinley. The Varsity's center spot, vacated by George Goeddeke, has come up with a strong line of contenders headed by Steve Quinn and followed by Larry Vuillemin, and Tim Monty. 
This year's Hering Awards, tradi­tionally given at the close of spring practice for proficiency and improve­ment at the various positions, were presented to Eric Norri, outstanding defensive lineman; John Pergine, out­standing defensive linebacker; Jim Smithberger, outstanding defensive back; Steve Quinn, most improved lineman; Bob Kuchenberg, outstand­ing offensive lineman; Captain Rocky Bleier, outstanding ofTensive back; Jim Seymour, outstanding offensive re­ceiver; Dan Harshman, most con­sistent back; Mike McCoy outstand­ing defensive freshman lineman; Terry Brennan, outstanding offensive freshman lineman; Ed Ziegler, out­standing freshman back offense; and Bob Olson, outstanding freshman line­backer. 
Other spring varsity sports as well as injuries sustained early in practice claimed the services of many ball­players. Included in this number, but expected to play ball this fall, are Dick Swatland, Paul May, Bob Gladieu.K, Dave Haley, Mike Kuzmicz, Rudy Konieczny, Bob Belden, Tom Schoen, Mike Burgener and Jay Ziznewski. 
Fall 1967 will mark the University's 79th consecutive appearance on the gridiron. And for Ara, taking his 25-3-2 slate into battle, this will be his fourth season with the Irish. 
Notre Dame's 1967 schedule in­cludes: California (Sept. 23), at Purdue (Sept. 30), Iowa (Oct. 7), Southern California (Oct 14), at Illinois (Oct. 21), Michigan State (Oct. 28), Navy (Nov. 4), at Pitts­burgh (Nov. 11), at Georgia Tech (Nov. 18) and at Miami (Nov. 24). 
O'BRIEN and SNOW Provided grand finale 

ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 
YEAREND WRAP-UP 
Success...and an Eye to the Future 
T 
HE Athletic Department's budget for next year will have to be increased to accommodate a liberal supply of one item. Silver poUsh .. . for all of the trophies varsit}' atliletic teams captured diis past season. 
The various hardware collected diis year include five in football, (AP, UPI, MacArthur Bowl, Grantland Rice, Wasliington Touchdown Club); two in basket­ball, (The Mayor's Trophy for the victoiy over tlie Air Force Academy, and the Indianapolis Club Trophy for the win over Butler); two in track, (CCC, and Indiana State Meet); and one for baseball, (the Rollins Inwtational Championship). Football Championship. The highlight of the sports year was, of course, the National Championship football team. Veteran newspaper reporters were unanimous in tlie opinion that "this was the finest college football team" in many years. And the post-season honors given to Ara Parseghian's squad support this claim. The Irish were voted Number One in bodi the AP and UPI college polls and die Football \Vriters Association of America awarded Notre Dame tlie Grantland Rice Trophy, sjonbolic of the best football team in the land. 
Team honors were overshadowed, however, by the number of indiNddual awai'ds. A Notre Dame record total of 15 members of the Fighting Irish were selected on the various All-America teams, either on the first or second teams as well as on the Honorable Mention lists. Sbc players—Jim Lynch, Alan Page, Pete Duranko, Kevin Hardy, Nick Eddy and Tom Regner—can be classified as "consensus Ail-Americans." Maxwell Honor to Lynch. One of the two premier awards given each year to a college football player, tlie Maxwell Trophy, went to captain Jim Lynch. The crowning moment of glor)', at least for all of the Notre Dame men who were in attendance, came when LjTich was given a standing ovation following his acceptance speech before some one thousand guests at the Maxvvell Dinner in Philadelphia. LjTich's performance there can best be summed up in his statement . . . "I'm gi'ateful to Notre Dame for treating me as Jim Lynch the stu­dent, rather than Jim Lynch tlie linebacker." Mix of Athletics and Academics. In addition, Notre Dame athletes this past year were highly successful in tlie world of academics. For instance. Lynch was awarded an academic scholarship by the National Foot­ball Foundation and Hall of Fame. Ed Schnurr, a reserve tackle, was granted an NCAA post-gi'aduate award of $1,000. Defensive halfback Jim Smithberger, L}Tich, Regner and basketball captain-elect, Bob Arnzen, were named to Academic All-America teams. Arnzen was the only sophomore in the countrj' to be selected on 
Roger Fox 
Bob Arnzen 
the ten-man cage squad. 
Fred Schnurr Tom Regner 
ALUMNUS MAY 1967 JUNE 

Dick Licini Tom Cuggino 
Bill Brown 
Bob Whitmore 

Jim Lynch 
AVitli sophomores Bob ^Vhitmore and Amzen, the 1966-67 season also saw a resurgence in Irish basketball fortunes as John Dee's sophomore-laden squad finished 
•with a 14-12 record. Unmarred Fencers. Mike DeCicco continued to impart his magic touch with the Fencing Team as the Irish finished with an unblemished 18-0 record, the only undefeated college fencing team in the country. The fencers also placed sixth in the NCAA post-season championship. 
During the past five years, DeCicco's teams have compiled a record of 79 wins and only 10 defeats—a .887 winning percentage. Swimming, a Plus. This year also marked a high tide of success for the Irish tankers as Coach Dennis Stark's swim team finished the season with a 7-3 record, the best log since 1959-60. Although the Irish lose two outstanding seniors—freestyler Rick Strack, and breast-stroker Bob Husson—the return of three top sophomores, Mike Davis, John May, Greg Ranieri, and Junior Tom Bourke, help make the outlook for next season a very promising one. 
Hea\'}'weight Roger Fox was somewhat of a mat-sensation during the wTestling season. Fox muscled his way to 8 victories in 9 meets, earned a second-place finish in the Indiana State Wrestling Tournament and a third-place in the Wheaton in\'itational. Track Standouts. Top performances from youngsters Bill Hurd, Pete Farrell, Ole Skarstein and Ed Broderick, powered the Irish trackmen to some impressive ^vins and championships. Alex Wilson's squad literally ran away with the Central Collegiate Conference indoor cham­pionship and recently edged Indiana for the top prize in die Indiana State Outdoor Meet. Hurd and Skarstein, sophomore sprinters, were big point-getters all season long, while quarter-miler Farrell established new indoor and fieldhouse records with a timing of 1:49.3. Farrell received All-America honors. 
Tom Fallon's tennis squad, sorely missing the injured Gary Rieser, nevertheless had racked up 12 victories against two lossess heading into a final pair of matches. An April loss to strong Southern Illinois 6-3, snapped a 29-game winning streak stretching back to 1965. Number one singles star. Bill Brown, has dropped only one match while junior Jasjit Singh reamins undefeated in tlie number two singles spot. A Banner Year for Jake. Jake Kline's 34th season as head baseball coach could end up as one of the best in his long career. ^Vith six games remaining the Irish will be tr)'ing to improve their 13-6-1 record and capture an at-large bid in the NCAA playoffs. The diamond stars this season have been hard-hitting first baseman, sophomore Dick Licini (.387), footballer Kevin Hardy (.384) and basketball captain Bob Amzen who tops Irish hurlers with a 4-0 record and a neat 1.45 ERA. The Irish ^von the Rollins Invitational Tournament on a southern swing prior to the start of the regular season. 
While the 1966-67 season has been a highly successful one, even spectacular in certain instances, the future is even brighter because of the number of top performances in all sports from sophomores and juniors. 
Make that a double order of silver polish, please. 
Roger 0. Valdiserri 
Director of Sports Information 
Photoany 

The Notre Dame and Western Railroad is a busy line . . . switching, coupling, docking over 700 hoppers, refrigerator cars and gondolas a year . . . The 65-ton diesel straining with a train of coal hoppers . . . dumping up to 100 tons an hour into the vast coal bin to satiate the power plant's winter hunger . . . The locomotive crane hoisting great weights and shunting the empty hoppers to the siding to await the engine that will haul them south for more coal . . . Familiar stops—the power plant, warehouse, storage pile . . . Familiar cargoes —tons of coal; building materials for the University's ambitious expansion; meat and potatoes for the unceasing need of the dining halls. 
But the Notre Dame and Western is also a quiet line. It races to meet no schedules. No whistles are blown, no lanterns 
photos bt/ 3t. Itriiee MtarUin 
59 
are waved. There's not so much as an "all aboard" to summon its crew from their power plant jobs. Lumbering down the track the men on ND & W's 5332— superintendent Brother Borromeo, engineer John Gooley, crew Russell Sterzik, Lester Gorbics, Ray Sagi—have time to recall the past glories of the line .. . Football specials lined-up along the length of the track disgorging their passenger-fans and waiting to be watered down and serviced . .. The depot of the early 1900s complete with station platform and overhanging window for a clear view down the track . . . Tracks which once criss-crossed the north campus and ran up behind the Infirmary and down to the ice-house and stock-loading pens. 
And yet, the Notre Dame and Western is not a paradox. With only a half mile of private track and running rights on another mile of track, it hasn't far to go. And it has only one community to serve, but it does the job well—as it has since the turn of the century when the first steam engine chugged over the track. The Notre Dame and Western RR may not be as long as other railroads, but its tracks are just as wide. 
R 
ALUMNUS MAY 19«7 JUNE 


ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS THOMAS P. CARNEY "37 HONORARY PRESIDENT AMBROSE F. DUDLEY JR. '43 PRESIDENT JOSEPH H. CAREY "32 VICE-PRESIDENT THOAAAS W. CARROLL '51 VICE-PRESIDENT CHARLES J. PATTERSON 'A7 VICE-PRESIDENT JAMES E. ARMSTRONG '25 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY JAMES D. COONEY '59 ASSISTANT ALUMNI SECRETARY 
DIRECTORS TO 1968 
JOSEPH H. CAREY '32 NOMINATIONS RELIGION AND CITIZENSHIP 19965 BRIARCLIFF DETROIT, MICH. 48221 
THOMAS W. CARROLL '51 NOMINATIONS PLACEMENT 214 W. 20lh HUTCHINSON, KAN. 67501 
AMBROSE F. DUDLEY JR. '43 EXECUTIVE 519 SUSSEX RD. WYNNEWOOD, PA. 19096 

CHARLES J. PATTERSON 'A7 ACADEMIC AFFAIRS CONTINUING EDUCATION 73 MT. V/AYTE AVE. FRAMINGHAM, MASS. 01702 
DIRECTORS TO 1969 
WILLIAM D. KAVANAUGH '27 BUDGET 3445 ORDWAY ST., N.W. WASHINGTON, D.C. 20016 
WILLIAM F. KERWIN JR. '40 
ADMISSIONS 1108 EMILIEST. GREEN BAY, WIS. 54301 

RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL "54 PUBLIC RELATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT STUDENT AFFAIRS P.O. BOX 200 SOUTH BEND, IND. 46624 lEO V. TURGEON '42 ATHLETIC SUITE 107 CRENSHAW MEDICAL CENTER 3731 STOCKER ST. LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90008 
DIRECTORS TO 1970 
EDWARD G. CANTWELL '24 700 BINNS BLVD. COLUMBUS, OHIO 43204 

EDWARD B. FITZPATRICK '5A 5 THE MAPLES ROSLYN ESTATES, N.Y. 11576 
JOHN J. REIDY "27 
/ /
ac a • dem ic free dom 
MAGAZINE STAFF 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG "25 EDITOR JOHN P. THURIN "59 MANAGING EDITOR DUTE WINSKUNAS 
EDITORIAL ASSISTANT BRUCE HARLAN '49 RICHARD STEVENS '51 
PHOTOGRAPHERS EDWARD E. HERRMANN ART CONSULTANT 

11850 EDGEWATER DR. NOTBE DAME LAKEWOOD, OHIO 44107 LEONARD H. SKOGLUND '38 426 DOVER AVE. 
.IIIIM 

UGRANGE PARK, ILL. 60525 
ai 










