The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
I OOth Year Opens  
(Page 3)  
Naval R. O. T. C  
Unit Organized  
(Page 5)  
A Case for  
Notre Dame  
(Page 7)  
Father Sarin  Watches  Over Campus as 100th Year  Begins  
Vol. 20  OCTOBER. 194!  No.  

UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS 
CENTENNIAL Rev.'John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., gen­eral chairman of the Centennial, reports that much progress has been made on the plans for the observance of Notre Dame's 100th Anniversary. Opening officially with the Commence­ment of 1942, the Centennial program will move in a majestic series of events to its close with the Commencement of 1943. Sub-committees made their plans and reports to the general chairman during the summer just ended. The General Committee is now making from these colorful pieces the pattern that will bring . world attention to Notre Dame next year. Announcement in detail of the Cen­tennial program will be made soon, and alumni and friends acquainted with the development of the many splendid phases under consideration. In the meantime, Father Cavanaugh urges any alumni with suggestions for making the Centennial memorable, to submit these to the Committee while there is yet time to fit them in. Once the program is announced, time will demand such intensive attention to its perform­ance that new features will be prac­tically impossible, no matter what their merit. 
RADIO BROADCASTS Certain restricted commercial broad­casts of Notre Dame home football games will be allowed this season for the first time in several years, it was an­nounced by the Kev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice-president of the University and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics. Permission for broadcasts will be granted, up to the limit of existing facil­ities, on the basis of the size of networks or stations requesting such permission, and without respect to whether the broadcasts are commercial or non-com­mercial. The University will maintain strict control over the number, type, and length of commercial announcements; and the products and services advertised must be in keeping with the dignity and propri­ety of the University, Father Cavanaugh said. While no charge wiU be made for un­sponsored broadcasts, stations making commercial -broadcasts will be diarged a fee, these revenues to go for the con­
struction and maintenance of radio booths. No exclusive rights will be sold to any station or sponsor. Any profits in this connection will go into the gen­eral fund of the University along with other athletic profits, to offset partially Notre Dame's lack of large endowment, and to help fulfill the more existing needs of the University, Father Cava­naugh stated. 
BULLETIN 
Dean Dugald C. Jackson, Jr., of the College of Engineering, a ma­jor in the Coast Artillery Reserve, will be called to active service about Oct. 15 and assigned to spe­cial production work in Frankford Arsenal, Philadelphia. He has been granted a leave of absence by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. 
Raymond J. Schubmehl, '21, professor of Civil Engineering, has been appointed assistant dean of the College of Engineering and will be acting dean in Dean Jack­son's absence. 
Benjamin G. DuBois, professor of French, a lieutenant-colonel in the Army Reserve, was called into active service within the summer and assigned to duty in Panama. 

ENGINEERS' CODE 
During 1940-41, D. C. Jackson, Jr., dean of the College of Engineering, con­ducted, for senior engineers and senior architects, a series of weekly lectures and discussions. During the second se­mester of the year, the students con­sidered the subject of Professional Ethics, reviewing the Codes of Profes­sional Ethics established by the national professional societies corresponding to the curricula in the College of Engi­neering. 
It was apparent to the seniors that these codes are generally of greater value by far to men who have been in the practice of their profession for 10 years or more than to the recent gradu­ates. As a result, the students devised a simple code for their guidance during the first five years after their gradu­ation. 
This code follows: The Engineering Profession, as all other professions, must have a general 
but eflScient standard of ethics if there  
is to be any unison between the practic­ 
ing engineer and his neighbor. Moreover  
it is only proper that the young engineer  
should have a definite course to follow  
in his future relationships with clients  
and fellow professional men. Therefore,  
we, the graduating class of 1941 from  
the Engineering College of the Univer­ 
sity of Notre Dame, propose the follow­ 
ing code as a guide along our selected  
path in life.  
As young engineers we will:  
1. Demonstrate honesty, sincerity, fair­ 
ness, and honor in all of our profes­ 
sional dealings.  
2. Abstain from all actions which, either  
directly or indirectly, would detract  
from the reputation, prospects, or pro­ 
fessional undertakings of a fellow  
engineer.  
3. Place our qualifications as engineers  
before the public in a dignified and  
conservative manner.  
4. Consider information which' concerns  
technical data, methods, or processes  
and business affairs, as well as all in­ 
formation which is not common public  
knowledge, to be strictly confidential  
and not within our rights to divulge.  
5. Direct our actions toward the best in­ 
terests of public welfare and supply  
our knowledge, skill, and training for  
the use and benefit of mankind.  
N.D. AND FRED ALLEN  
Sophomore James McDonough, of Chi­ 
cago, monolo^st, was- chosen by the  
Notre Dame student body to appear with  
Fred Allen on the Texaco Star Theatre's  
first 1941-42 broadcast over the Colvmi­ ^  
bia system Oct. 1. A $200 cash prize and  ?  
all expense paid trip to New York, with  ^  
the opportunity of appearing on a major  
network, were given Mr. McDonough.  
John J. Rider, of class of '30, a repre­ 
sentative of the Fred Allen show, con­ 
ducted the competition on the campus.  
Rnnners-up to Mr. McDonough were  
Jack MoUoy, of New Rochelle, N. Y.,  
pianist, and Anthony Donadio, of Balti­ 
more, Md., tenor.  
•  
HOWARD JONES' DEATH  
The death, on July 27, of Howard  
Jones, football coach at the University  
of Southern California, was a shock to  
many at Notre Dame. He had been  
Southern California's coach since 1925.  
His teams broke four times long victory  
runs of great Notre Dame squads.  
The coach of the Trojans stopped at  
the University last year and participated  
in a presentation of an oil painting of  
the late Enute Bockne. He also watched  
Notre Dame spring practice and wished  
Coach Leahy luck.  

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This masa&ne is published monthly from October to June, inclusive -(except Jannmrr). by tt* PnlniiilJ et Noti« 1 
Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1, 1939, at the Poctbffie*, Kotra Dame; Indhiia, nader tlw 
act of Ansrast 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Cttholie Ahnmii Federation. JAM£5 E . ABMSTBONC 75, Eiilor; WILUAM R . DOOIXY. "26, Manapnf EJHor 
Vol. 20 OCTOBER, 1941 No. I 
Notre Dame Begins 100th Academic Year 
Capacity Enrollment Finds Naval R.O.T. C and Defense Training Taking Spodigiit; Father John Burke New Prefect of Disdpline 
Ninety-nine times this path to lasting their vital and interesting presentations values has echoed to the tread of young of isolation and intervention.... Father men. Carrico being ofiicially assisted this year 
by Father J. J. Lane.... boys'filling all Drums and bugles have accompanied the playgrounds limbering up for the them before. 
Interhall Renaissance.... tickets for most, of the games going or gone with the Sometimes vrages have been high. Oth­added 1941 impetus of curiosity. 
er times wages have been low. 

Sometimes values of education have Notre Dame is open again, for its been questioned. Other years the boys 
100th academic year. 

came with confidence. Speaking to the students at the open­ing Mass, the reason for schools like 
Some have come in the prosperous Notre Dame in a world like ours was years for the dollar-sign value. Others beautifully analyzed by Rev. Hugh for the social trade-mark. Still more O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, president of the throughout the years for the mental-University. Summing up a description of sign. 

the false philosophies of today's chaos, All have found, any year and all years, he said: the highest benefit, the soul-sign of 
"With such ideologies rampant in the Notre Dame. 
world, the sword of battle has replaced the sword of the spirit. The Moloch of Another filled campus this Fall  arrays evil 

boys living in the hotels and private war might against right; 
against good; man against man. Man's homes until vacancies on the campus are artistry is ridiculed as he becomes only deiinitely established defense occu­pjdng a key position with the Naval 
R. O. T. C. uniformed staff mingling.... Father Trahey the new defense coordin­ator. .... a new P. of D., not as easily seen, Father John Burke football fervor fanned early by the short time be­tween opening classes and opening game.... new students enjoying a pleas­ing orientation under the able guidance of Father Putz and his active Catholic Action upperclassmen... Dean Pat Man-ion doing a fine job with a Law School somewhat riddled by the old-age insecur­ity of its advanced students Manager 

Jim Connolly of the Dining Halls com­muting to the Candy Store, now an annex after the chain-store theory.... Dean Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., back at Arts and Letters after a spring and summer of Washington politics, with an • academic P... . the Missions under way with the Church jammed.... Father REV. JOHN J. BURKE. C.S.C., '32 O'Brien and Dr. McMahon back with New Prefect of Discipline a means to operate the engines of in­iquity. Planes battle in the air; tanks clash on the grotmd; battleships and sub­marines send salvos and torpedoes on the sea, as men ruthlessly destroy to attain an earthly objective. These constitute the sword of battle. No thought is given to the innocent, as hunger, starvation, and pestilence follow in its wake. .And all this has happened because the peoples of the world have forgotten their God and brought down upon thanselves His wrath....." 
Present at this opening student Mass was also Most Rev. John F. CHara, C.S.C., D.D., 11, former president of Notre Dame, now guiding the spiritual destinies of the Catholics of the aimed forces of the U. S. Bishop CHara cele­brated, quietly and wjth no interruption of his many duties, his 25th anniversaiy in the priesthood in Ne\{ York in mid-September. He also celebrated a Mass for the Notre Dame Club of New York on Sept. 15, commemorating the lOOfii anniversary of the arrival of Father,. Sorin in New York from France; 
The Aill house in this Fall of '41 is augmented to the congestion point by the offering on the campus of 60 college grade courses in defense to industrial workers in the St Joseph Valley. Engi­neering, science and management com­prise the basic objectives of the courses, which will be offered in three 12-week groupings. This program is headed and coordinated with other campus defense measures by Rev. James Trahey, C.S.C, '30. 
Operating costs of the University, in­tensified by the necessity for many skilled workers in the maintenance of the plant and the costs of materials, will he offset to some extent this year by the $50 raise in price for the resident student ($25 for the off-campus resident). AiA­ity to secure summer employment at 

good wages reduced this hardship for the students. And alumni will be inter­ested in the repetition here that Notre Dame costs, even with the new increase, are still well below the level of those of other private universities offering comparable education and facilities. 
Few faculty members have been lost through the defense program, although the number is up for some, and there is some uncertainty as to the months ahead. Students were not taken in the numbers anticipated, and it is the hope of the majority discussing the problem that the Government will not take need­lessly boys who are in the process of completing their education, and for whom interruption at this time would work serious economic hardship and profes­sional training handicaps. It seems to be the consensus of opinion that most of the draft boards have been very fair and intelligent in the handling of this admittedly difficult problem. 
Announcement that the Brothers of Holy Cross will assume operation of a high school in Long Beach, Calif., was the high light of the annual meeting of the Congregation held at the University July 24 at which assignments for the coming year were made public by Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, '99, Pro­vincial. 
This is not a year in which general changes are made and the number of priests and brothers given new obedi­ences was not numerous, but several ap­pointments were of special interest. 
To Long Beach, California 

Brother Hyacinth, C.S.C, '25, former principal of Central Catholic High school in South Bend, becomes principal and director of the boys' department of St. Anthony's High school at Long Beach. His staff will include Brothers Agatho, Gerald, Cyril and Cyprian. 
At Notre Dame, Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C, '32, succeeds Rev. James D. Tra­hey, C.S.C, '30, as prefect of discipline; Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C, '30 becomes assistant director of studies, a newly created post; and Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C, '20 returns for special work after three years in New Orleans, La. Father Trahey will teach at Notre Dame and also act as administrative assistant. 
Other priests assigned to teach or study at Notre Dame for the ensuing year include: Rev. Norman J. Johnson, Rev. Joseph J. Corcoran, Rev. Charles 
M. Carey, Rev. Alfred C Send, Rev. Jo­seph A. Kehoe, Rev. Walter L. Mclnemy, Rev. Edmund J. Murray, Rev. Roman Ladewski, Rev. John C Burke, Rev. Rol­and G. Simonitsch, Rev. Raymond F. Cour, Rev. Joseph L. Powers, Rev. Louis 
S. Furgal, Rev. James G. Anderson and 
REV. JAMES D. TRAHEY, CS. a 
N. D. Defense Coordinator 

Rev. Lloyd W. Teske. Rev. John J. Haley, C.S.C, will serve as an assistant prefect of religion and teach. 
Two members of the imiversity Eng­lish faculty. Rev. Cornelius J. Laskowski, C.S.C, and Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C, will do graduate work away from Notre Dame. During the last year Fath­er Laskowski also was faculty adviser of the Scholastic, and Father Beichner an assistant prefect of religion. 
Among changes in South Bend and vicinity are the following: Rev. Michael 
A. Mathis, C.S.C, chaplain at St. Joseph hospital, succeeding Rev. John F. De-Groote, C.S.C, who will reside at Notre Dame. Rev. Joseph Brannigan, C.S.C, chaplain at St. Joseph farm; Rev. Ber­nard Niemier, C.S.C, assistant pastor, St. Hedwige's church; Rev. Leo Wojcie­chowski, C.S.C, assistant pastor, St. Casimir's church; Rev. William T. Mor­rison, C.S.C, assistant pastor, St. Jo­seph's church. *• 
Rev. William C Havey, C.S.C, '20, former dean of commerce at St. Ed­ward's university, Austin Texas, became vice-president at St. Edward's. Priests assigned to the faculty there include: Rev. John T. Biger, Rev. James J. Leahy, and Rev. William B. Ford. Rev. James 
P. Gibbons will succeed the late Rev. Paul Folk as a member of the Knights of Columbus historical commission at Austin. 
Rev. James A. Fogarty, C.S.C, '22, veteran member of the Notre Dame fac­ulty, joined the teaching staff at the University of Portland, Portland, Ore., as did Rev. Joseph M. Doherty, C.S.C, Rev. John M. Margraf, C.S.C, is pastor of Our Lady of Sorrows church, Port­land. 
Of chief local significance among the obediences given the Brothers of Holy Cross is the appointment of Brother Gerard, C.S.C, '22 as principal of Cen­tral Catholic High school. South Bend. Additions to the school staff include Brothers Frederick and Reginald. ' 
Brother Dominic, C.S.C, '36 is super­ior of Dujarie Institute, the Brothers' house of studies at Notre Dame; and Brother Rembert, C.S.C, commissioner of province houses. Brothers Crispin, Camillus, Lawrence, Dunstan and Hum­bert are prefecting or studying at Notre Dame. 
Sent to Indianapolis 

Additions to the faculty of Cathedral High school, Indianapolis, are Brothers Virgil Francis, Berchmans, Etienne, Eu­stace and Rudolph. 
Holy Cross college. New Orleans, La., Brothers Gabriel, Philip, Isidore, Donard and Canisus. 
Monsignor Coyle High school, Taun­ton, Mass., Brother Emil, assistant su­perior; Brothers Sigismund, Casper, Do­natus and Ivo. Vincentian Institute, Al­bany, New York, Brothers Ronald, Ro­manus and Paulus. 
Holy Trinity High school, Chicago, Brothers Ambrose, Bartholomew and Eamon. 
Reitz Memorial High school, Evans­ville, Ind., Brothers Benedictus and Noel. Gibault School for Boys, Terre Haute, Ind., Brother John Leonard. St. Charles Boys Home, Wauwatosa, Wis., Brother Lucidus. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS 

Two books by Brother Ernest, C.S.C, '25, are to be published this fall. One of them is entitled The Boy Who Sow the World, a story of St. Francis Xavier. The other is also a juvenile. 
Tlie Ctire of Ruille, the life of the Very Rev. James F. Dujarie, founder of the Brothers of Holy Cross and the Sis­ters of Providence, by Brother Ephrem, C.S.C, '24, is to be issued soon by the Ave Maria press. The biography of 268 pages is the story of "a great and noble priest whose zeal for souls made him a veritable apostle." In ^vriting the book Brother Ephrem had access to the ar­chives of the Congregation of Holy Cross as well as to other primary sources. 
Dr. Gonzalo J. Restrepo, a Notre Dame student from Colombia, South America, in 1916-17, has presented to the University library an autographed copy of his book. Contemporary Crisis, written in French, published by the Uni­versity of Bolivia. 


Naval R.O.T.C. Organized on Campus 
Captain H. P. Burnett Commands Unit of 165 Notre Dame Men in Roclne Memorial Headquarters; Rifle Range in Stadium. 
With the start of Notre Dame's 100th year, the University has for the first time in her history a unit of the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps. Pre­liminary organization work on the new unit was carried on during most of the summer. First formal inspection was conducted Sept. 18 by Rear Admiral John Downes, commandant of the ninth naval district with headquarters at Great Lakes, 111. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, entertained Admiral Downes at luncheon. 
Captain Henry P. Burnett, U.S. Navy, commandant of the Naval R.O.T.C. unit at Notre Dame, is a native of Kentucky and has served 31 years in the Navy, of which 20 years have been spent at sea. He served on the staff of the commander­in-Chief of the U. S. Fleet during World War I, and has since served as navigat­ing officer of the U. S. S. Chester, a heavy cruiser; executive officer of the 
U. S. S. New Orleans, also a heavy cruiser, and has been commanding offi­cer of submarines, destroyers and the 
U. S. S. Pyro. In addition to his duties as commandant, Captain Burnett is pro­fessor of Naval Science and Tactics. 
The executive officer of the unit, Lieutenant Commander M. T. Farrar, 
U. S. Navy, was appointed to the Naval Academy in 1919 from North Dakota and graduated in June, 1923. He has served on battleships, mine sweepers, a destroyer tender, the aircraft carrier Lexington, a submarine and a destroyer. He served last year with the Naval 
R.O.T.C. at Northwestern University. 
Lieutenant W. S. Howell, U. S. Navy, assistant professor of Naval Science and Tactics is a native of Illinois. He was graduated from the Naval Academy in 1933 and had served on destroyers and a heavy cruiser before reporting here for duty. 
Lieutenant T. Black, U. S. Navy, as­sistant professor of Naval Science and Tactics, is from New York State. He also was graduated from the Naval Academy 
In addition to the officers, there are several chief petty officers of the fleet reserve who have been recalled to aictive duty as instructors of Naval Science and Tactics and who will assist in the various practical works and drill of the unit. Their names and ranks appear with the picture accompanying this article. 
The quota for the freshman class this year is 150 Naval R.O.T.C. students, reg­ularly enrolled, plus 15 naval science stu­dents to make a total of 165 in the initial class. With four classes organized, the quota set by the Navy Department for this Naval R.O.T.C. unit is 300 students. 
The headquarters of the Naval R. O. 
T. C. are in the Rockne Memorial Build­ing at the west end of the University plaza. The class rooms in the Rockne Building have been made available for the Naval R.O.T.C. students, in addition to an armory and store rooms also in the building. 
The University now has under con­struction an indoor rifle and pistol range beneath the Stadium. This range is for the instruction and training of the Naval 
R.O.T.C. students in the small bore rifle and also the caliber pistol. Equipment for the unit includes a four-inch naval gun and many other nautical and train­ing exhibits. 
Notre Dame's unit will be one of 27 in operation in this country during the coming year and is one of eight begin­ning its work this fall. Accepted fresh­men must pass the rigid examinations required of Annapolis students. Students will be famished complete uniforms by the Navy Department, along with books and other supplies connected with the course. 
Naval R.O.T.C. freshmen will recite in classes three hours a week, in addition to two drill periods each week. The sub­jects studied the first year will include Naval Organization and Administration, Seamanship, Naval History, Element­ary Navigation and Gunnery and Naval Communications. The drills will include infantry drills, marlinspike seamanship, radio code and signal drills, gunnery drills and rifle and pistol instruction. 
A Navy Board of medical examiners 
in 1933, and his first duty was on the 

Two hnndred and •CTcntT'^iilit yemn af BCtiTe BaTal Mrrice a n lepiaentcd kr tUs sraap of 12 battleship Oklahoma of the U. S. Fleet. oSieus and sailors wiio comprise Oe cotpa •( fautnwtan far Notn Dame's Naval R. O. T. C aait. He had three years experience on de­Left to right are: first row — Lt. WiDiaa S. Hawdl; Capt. H. P. Bamctt: lA. CoauuBder K. T. 
Farrar and Lt. Thompson Black, Jr. Secnd rew — E.~ D. Hilkr. Chief Gmmcc's Hate; C. McCsMha, 
stroyers and duty on the light cruiser 

Chief Qnartemuster; J. F. WiOiaais, diief Gnraei'a Mate; W. J. DeZatter, Chief Maddniat's Kale^ 
Boise prior to joining this Naval R. O. 

Bade tow — N. J. Vecchio, Teoman First Claaa; T. F. OerliB. CUef Teaman; C. H. Toln^ Chief 
T. C. unit. Gnnnet's Hate, and S. H. Rinehart, Gannei'a Mate, fltwd Claaa. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
from the Naval Training Station at Great Lakes convened in the Eockne Memorial Building on Sept. 15 to con­duct the physical examinations of the freshman applicants for the Naval R. 0. 
T. C. 
The Naval Reserve Officers' Training Corps is composed of all Naval training tmits now operating in 27 universities. Six units were established in 1926 at Harvard, Yale, Georgia School of Tech­nology, Northwestern, California, and Washington. Later others were begun at the University of California at Los An­geles, Tulane, and Minnesota. More re­cently additional units have been estab­lished as follows: Brown, Colorado, Holy Cross, Marquette, Michigan, New Mex­ico, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Duke, Pennsylvania, Rensselaer, Rice, South­ern California, South Carolina, Texas, Tufts, Virginia, and Notre Dame. The enrollment in the Naval Reserve Officers' Training Corps is limited by law to 7,200 students which number is distributed by quota between the 27 universities men­tioned above. The unit in the university is known as the Department of Naval Science and Tactics and is an integral part of the University. 
Purpose The primary object of the Naval Re­serve Officers' Training Corps is to pro­vide systematic instruction and training in the essential naval subjects for a group of selected students so that they may be qualified and available for duties as deck officers in the United States Navy. The work supplements other courses taken in the University so that the graduates commissioned as ensigns in the Naval Reserve or second lieuten­ants in the U. S. Marine Corps Reserve will possess: 
1.
 A good general education. 


2.
 Sufficient knowledge of such naval subjects as seamanship, navigation, ord­nance, military and international law, engineering, strategy and tactics, com­munications and theoretical aviation, to be qualified to perform duties as a junior officer of the Naval Reserve. 

3.
 A well-disciplined mind and body together with leadership in organization. 

4.
 A knowledge of the value of naval ideals, customs, and traditions. 


Admiision Enrollment in the Naval Reserve Offi­cers Training Corps is entirely volun­tary. Application for enrollment may be made in advance. Enrollments are lim­ited to freshmen, but in some cases and at the option of the Professor of Naval Science and Tactics, others who intend to remain at the University four full years after enrollment may be admitted. 
Applicants must be unmarried, citizens of the United States, not less than 14 nor more than 24 years of age. They must pass a physical examination given by medical officers of the United States Navy. All applicants must agree to be immunized from typhoid fever and small­pox, unless a satisfactory certificate of immunity from these diseases is fur­nished. 
The study of navigation and other subjects included as a part of the course requires a basic knowledge of mathe­matics, including algebra, plane and solid geometry and plane trigonometry. Applicants must agree in writing to complete these subjects before entering the advanced course in their junior year. 
Outline of Course The course in Naval Science and Tac­tics is a four-year course and runs con­tinuously. Each semester's work is a pre­requisite for the following semester's work. The course is technical to the ex­tent that it makes available to the stu­dent sufficient knowledge of naval sub­jects, which, combined with a back­ground of naval experience, tradition and custom acquired both in his academic work and in his practical cruise at sea, 
•nnll qualify him upon gralduation to serve as an ensign in the Naval Reserve. The four-year course is divided into the basic course and the advanced course. The basic course comprises the work of the first two years. The advanced course comprises the work of the final two years and is open only to juniors who have completed the basic course. 
Each summer, imless some emergency interferes. Naval Reserve Officers Train­ing Corps students are permitted to make a cruise of three or four weeks on ships of the United States Navy without ex­pense to the student, except for personal spending money. The advanced course cruise made by the students at the end of their junior year is a requirement for a commission. The students receive pay for this part of their shipboard training. 
Obligations After Graduation Satisfactory completion of the four years of training and the required cruise during the advanced course will qualify the student for a commission as ensign in the Naval Reserve or as a second lieutenant in the .United States Marine Corps Reserve, provided he applies for the commission, obtains a degree from Notre Bame, is recommended for and passes the physical examination. 
Draft SUtus Under the existing laws, students reg* ularly enrolled in the advanced N. R. O. 
T. C. course are not subject to the Selec­tive Service and Training Act. 
Special Opportunities Each year three members of the unit may be selected by the president of the University to take the examination for appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Twenty such appointments are available and students are in competition with those of other universities where Naval Reserve Officers' Training Corps units are located. 
A limited number of graduates may be nominated for commissions in the Supply Corps of the United States Navy and in the United States Marine Corps Reserve. 
Graduates, after one year at sea as en­signs in the Naval Reserve, are eligible for a commission in the line of the reg­ular Navy, provided they are recom­mended by their commanding officers and pass the prescribed physical and mental examinations. 
Although the selection of students for special instruction in the Naval Air Corps is not limited to unit members, preference is given to gpraduates of Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps units. 
The training provides an excellent background for those who may desire to secure employment in the Merchant Marine, and students who have success­fully passed the course should find it comparatively easy to pass the examina­tions for papers as third mate. 

OLD FRIENDSHIP RENEWED 
By Capt. John V. Hinkd, '29 

Colonel William R. Arnold, chief of chaplains of the United States Army, is one of the most beloved officers in the Army. Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, D.D., in his capacity as auxiliary bishop of Catholics in the armed forces of the United States, has frequent contact with Colonel Arnold. Their friendship is of long standing. They met some 40 years ago when Father Arnold, then a newly ordained priest, was assigned as an as­sistant at St."" Charles' Church at Peru, Ind. One of his parishioners was a young boy named John F. O'Hara who fre­quently served Father Arnold's daily Mass. 
Shortly afterwards. Father Arnold was commissioned a regular Army chap­lain and young O'Hara went with his family to live in South America. Their paths did not cross again until years later when Father Arnold visited Father O'Hara at Notre Dame. They met only once again after that until Father O'Hara was consecrated bishop. 
Father Arnold is one of Notre Dame's staunch friends. He is a native of Mun­cie, Ind., and is attached to the diocese of Fort Wayne. 


A Case (or Notre Dame 
Not so long ago a certain college grad­uate almost decided to send his up-and­coming son to a correspondence school in order to avoid added contacts with alumni associations and with the drives which have become an established prac­tice for the raising of funds. You alumni imderstand that man's attitude. You know that requests made by colleges usually come to desks already g^roaning under bills for household expenses, for insurance premiums, for club fees; to desks thickly covered with saccharinic notes asking for bundles to be sent to this or that country or requesting assist­ance for starving and persecuted refu­gees. Men of moderate means are today justly alarmed at the increasing burden of taxation which they, in the future, must bear. There is, too, a feeling of em­barrassment among loyal alumni if they are not able to write out a considerable check in favor of their university when­ever the call comes. They think to them­selves, "I can't g:ive a decent amount, so I won't grive anything at aU." In the light of this general assault, many alum­

ni develop a defensive state of mind and challenge the purpose and management of colleges and of their general need for funds. One hears this challenge ex­pressed by students at universities. "My father paid my way through school and thej^ve got all they're ever going to get out of me".... "I might have given them something if I hadn't nm into so-and-so on the faculty. Why he doesn't even know my name." 
N. D. Men Convinced 

I take for granted that Notre Dame alumni are convinced, beyond the need of demonstration, that the philosophy be­hind education at their University is singularly capable of preserving all that is best in the American form of life. There seems to be a feeling abroad that, great as Notre Dame has been through her years of struggles, she is today at the threshhold of her golden era of in­fluence. I wonder, however, if there is an intelligent unity of opinion among Notre Dame men as to just what is re­quired if Notre Dame is to fulfill her special destiny? 
Notre Dame has enjoyed for the last 15 years almost unique success in foot-
BY REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH. C S. C 
Vice-President of the University and General Chairman of the Centennial Committee. 
baU. Oui: teams have been supported by himdreds of thousands of spectators, and successive generations of students have gone away from the campus strongly suspecting, I fear, that from the football revenues gold bullion was being hoarded in some hidden vault on the campus. A ' program of building, amounting to more than seven million dollars, had to be carried on in order to make the transi­tion within 15 years from a smaller in­stitution of learning to a large univer­sity with an enrollment that tripled within a period of 20 years. The building program became for many merely an­other link in the chain of evidence that Notre Dame was rich and getting richer year by year. In the face of these condi­tions the case for endowment at Notre Dame must be explained thoroughly to every member of the Notre Dame family. It doesn't matter so much whether the member of the Notre Dame family is in a position to give, but he should at least have the facts and be disposed to speak out when necessary. 
Has Notre Dame been making a mil­lion dollars a year on football? The year just ended is among the best we ever had. Gross receipts were slightly less than $525,000, and actual expenses for carrying on the intercollegiate and inter-
hall athletic programs amounted to 
slightly less than $313,000, leaving a net 
to the University of approximately 
$212,000. Far from getting a million 
dollars from football, Notre Dame, then, 
actually received $212,000, or something 
less than a quarter of that amount. But 
is there not, besides, some net return on 
the general operations of the University 
exclusive of football? There is. The net 
is something like $190,000, for the last 
fiscal year; which means that altogether 
the entire net was about $372,000. Out of 
this entire net there is a depreciation 
reserve set up for the replacement of 
buildings and equipment, which are dtb­
er becoming obsolescent or wearing out 
through daily use. This reserve amounts to something like $150,000, leaving only about $222,000 available for the con­struction of new buildings, for tiie de­velopment of research and of the gradu­ate departments, and for carrying on the various forms of social security which have already been introduced. 
Wliare Has Money Gone? 
What has actually been done with such an amount of money year after year for the laft 15 years? Along witii the building program amounting to seven million dollars, Notre Dame has c<m­tinued, from its annual resources, to strengthen all undergraduate depart­ments and, at the same time, has de­veloped seven graduate departments at the University. Anyone familiar wifli educational work understands immediate­ly that graduate departments, with rela­tively high-salaried professors what teach comparatively few students who cannot themselves pay their expenses, are a heavy financial load. For this important reason, Notre Dame's policy, like that of the California Institute of Technol­ogy, has been to concentrate on few' departments in which the doctor's d^ree is offered and to make these departmoits flie best possible with the men and moneys available. Since the success of graduate' work depends very largely up<m the quality of the professors and-of-the staffs devoted to research, I may mattioo certain outstandhig men on the various graduate faculties at Notre Dame. The faeolfy of philosophy is especially not­able for the variety of training whidi 


REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, CS.C 
its members have received. These mem­bers have been trained in the principal Catholic universities of the United States, Canada, France, Germany, Bel­^um, and Italy. Professor Yves Simon, the author of several significant works is an outstanding Thomist. He was former­ly on the faculty of the University of Lille iir France. Father Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, Doctor Francis McMahon and Doctor John Fitzgerald are rising young philosophers of note on the faculty. This current year the University has added to the staff. Professor Paul Vigneux, internationally known for his studies in the history of philosophy, and until re­cently director of the School of Higher Studies at the University of Paris. On the faculty for graduate work in politics there are Doctors Waldemar Gurian and Ferdinand Hermens, both authors of several important works. Professor Her­mens' latest study in proportional repre­sentation is very soon to appear. On the faculty of biology there is Doctor The­odor Just, outstanding botanist, editor of The Midland Naturalist, which was founded by the late Father Nieuwland in 1926 and which is today acknowledged in most countries of the world as one of the better learned journals in the field of botany. On the faculty for graduate work in physics there are Doctor George Collins, now engaged in government re­search, Doctor Eugene Guth, Doctor Ed­ward Coomes, and a Holy Cross priest. Father Henry Bolger. Busy in metallur­gy are the experienced and scholarly Doctor Edward G. Mahin and his gifted young assistant. Doctor Alexander E. Troiano. In mathematics there is Doctor Earl Menger, formerly head of the de­partment of mathematics at the Uni­versity of Vieima and acknowledged as one of the great mathematicians of the world. Working imder Professor Menger are Professors Arthur Milgram and Paul Pepper, young American mathematicians of extraordinary promise. 
^ Research in Chemistry 
I might go on to tell you of the im­portant researches which are being car­ried on under the able leadership of Dean Henry B. Froning in the Depart­ment of Chemistry. The researches which were begun by Father Nieuwland in Organic Chemistry are now being ad­vanced by Doctors Vogt, Hennion, and Campbell, and the researches in Inor­ganic Chemistry are being developed by Doctors Hamill, Baldinger, McCusker, and Brother Columba, C.S.C. I might allude to the problems in micrurgy, in germ-free research, and in research on cross infection, occupying much of the attention of Professor Eeyniers and his skilled assistants. Research is costly. Doctor Collins has constructed a huge gun for the smashing of atoms. The gun cost about $40,000 in material and labor. There are important researches in eco­nomics being conducted by Father Keller. One report on these researches in eco­nomics, that on National Wealth, has been published. Other studies are to come later. 
Four Learned Publications 
May I develop a little further one point I am trying to make? The salaries of professors of graduate work are high; researches are costly; scholarships must be offered for qualified graduate stu­dents; certain expensive publications must be fostered by a university engaged in graduate work, Notre Dame finances four learned publications out of current funds. These publications are The Mid­land Naturalist, the Publications in Medieval Research, edited by Father Moore, The Review of Politics, and The Mathematical Colloquium. It is not healthy, even if it might be done, to con­tinue graduate work out of current funds because the salaries of graduate professors, necessary scholarships, re­search projects, and learned publications demand annually a huge, definite sum of money. When they are carried on out of current income which is sensitive to wars and other changing factors, the whole program rests on an uncertain foundation which may be shaken serious­ly even in the next few months. 
There are 134 colleges and univer­sities in the United States which possess two million dollars or more of endow­ment. Among these 134 colleges are some that you have hardly ever heard about. Yet Notre Dame, possessing a national reputation, is not among the 134. Notre Dame's endowment is §1,010,000, as compared, for example, with Harvard's §144,000,000, ^vith Yale's §101,000,000, with Columbia's §70,000,000. Is Notre Dame's position clear? Besides the needs of the graduate departments and of the expensive projects undertaken in re­search, Notre Dame must within the next 10 years go much further in such mat­ters as group insurance for protection, in case of sickness and death, of both faculty members and employees. Notre Dame must do more in lay teacher pen­sions, and in other forms of social secur­ity. The remodelling or replacement of the huge main building, the construction of a residence hall for graduate students a structure for the College of Arts and Letters hardly need be mentioned to es­tablish the urgent case for endowment at Notre Dame. 
All Notre Dame alumni know that al­ready phenomenal results have been ob­tained chiefly because thousands of well-trained religfious have in the last century 
taught and worked at Notre Dame, with­out salary. Their combined effort has counter-balanced the almost unrequited need for cash. Notre Dame enjoys good will, precious and world-wide; a match­less spirit inspires faculty men, alumni and students; Notre Dame has advanced far in her building program, in attract­ing outstanding men to the faculties. The next significant step in the natural order, in the history of Notre Dame, will be, it seems to me, the acquisition of a large endowment. There must be intelligent unity and constant cooperation on this point. A neighboring university has with­in 20 years increased its endowment by $40,000,000. With an accurate under­standing on the part of Notre Dame's faculty members, alumni, and students, with the united effort which, will follow such an understanding, a similar amount of endowment can be attracted to Notre Dame within the next 20 years. If it comes, all of us know what an influence Notre Dame will exert in this land of America which we love. The opportunity of Notre Dame must be spread abroad, that this institution may continue to reach out to its goal as the educational pride of America and the strongest bul­wark of defense for the American and Christian way of life. 
PLACEMENT STORY 
The advantages, in several directions, resulting from a placement program are exemplified in the following letter, thoughtfully written by Edward J. Tra­cey, Jr., '40, 512 Western Ave., Joliet, m., to John T. Balfe, chairman of the Placement Committee of the Notre Dame Club of New York City: 
"During the past month I have been transferred from the Martinsville Nylon Plant to the Kankakee Ordnance Works. 
"The work here is much more of a chemical nature and very interesting. The work is not only the type I like to do, but the Company is just about the best there is to work for. For your ef­forts, those of Mr. Lawless and the Notre Dame Alumni, I owe my deepest appreciation and gratitude for getting me associated with the duPont organiza­tion. 
"How to express my thanks is difficult, but I will do my best to uphold the name and spirit of Notre Dame, and in turn to assist any Notre Dame men that I might be able to help. 
"I wish you and yours the best of health, happiness and all that goes with it." 
"Mr. Lawless" is William F. Lawless, M.E., '21, superintendent of construction at the duPont plant in Martinsville, Va. 

Campus Has Active Summer (As Usual) 
Summer School and Lay Retreats Lead Program. 
The twenty-fourth session of Notre Dame's summer school opened June 24 with an enrollment of 1,103 religious and lay students. 823 priests, brothers, and sisters coming from 27 religious com­munities for women and 12 religious communities for men were registered. 
Some of the outstanding visiting pro­fessors were Prof. Francis Tschan, of Pennsylvania State College, in history; Dr. LaBoy W. Wilkins, clinical psychol­ogist of the Milwaukee public schools, in education; Rev. William C. Havey, C.S.C, of St. Edward's University, Aus­tin, Texas, in philosophy;; and Rev. W. Michael Ducey, O.S.B., secretary of the Benedictine Liturgical Conference, New­ark, N. J., in religion. Twenty-five visit­ing teachers augmented the regular faculty. 
Lay students attending the summer school were housed in Zahm, Breen-PhiUips, and St. Edward's halls. The sisters occupied Badin, Lyons, Walsh, Morrissey, and Howard halls; and the brothers and priests of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, Alumni and Cqvan­augh halls. Visiting priests, brothers, and seminarians were lodged in Sorin hall. 
The College of Engineering oflfered a special eight-week course which began June 1, with 79 students registered for classes in metallurgy, geology, mechan­ical, electrical, and civil engineering. 
Another engineering defense training program enrolling 150 men from South Bend and the vicinity was inaugurated at the University June 23. Evening classes in machine drawing, shop mathe­matics, and shop processes were under the supervision of Prof. Pasquale M. Pirchio, head of the Department of Engi­neering Drawing. The course lasted 12 weeks and the only cost to students was for textbooks and supplies. 
Colorful pageantry high-lighted the summer session for the religious, when the feast day of Our Lady of Mount Carmel was celebrated with a day-long observance. The climax of the observance was an evening candle-light procession in which 1,500 religious participated. At dusk there were prayers in Sacred Heart Church, following which, a pro­cession made up of the Moreau Seminary Choir, priests, brothers, seminarians, and nuns carrying lighted tapers woimd their way. across the campus to the Grotto of Lourdes, where the service ended with a solemn benediction. 
The 24th annual retreats for Catholic laymen were conducted this summer at Notre Dame; the first retreat extended from August 7 to 10, and the second from August 10 to 12. The theme for this meeting of more than 1,200 Catholic laymen was spiritual preparedness in time of national emergency. Rev. Wen­dell P. Corcoran, C.S.C, conducted the first retreat and Rev. Michael A. Foran, 
C. S. C, the second. A special Mass dedicated to former retreatants now serving with the nation's military forces ended the spiritual defense program. 
Those attending the summ«r session enjoyed several outstanding events. The first was in the form of a daredevil show, which occurred when two steeple-jacks climbed 275 feet above the ground to attach a lightning rod to the top of the cross on Sacred Heart Church. 
The second was the out-door perform­ance of the ancient Greek tragedy, "Ag^amemnon," staged by the University Summer Theatre, which took place July 23, on the steps of the University li­brary. Paul B. Lillis, 1941 football cap­tain, was in the title role. 
And the third was the overnight en­campment of a convoy of United States Army trucks and men in a parking lot near the Notre Dame stadium. Two hun­dred and fifteen trucks and more than 400 men composed the unit moving from Pontiac, Mich., to Camp Forrest, Tenn. 
The summer session ended August 5, with Commencement exercises in Wash­ington hall, at which Rev. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C, president of the University, awarded 37 baccalaureate and 61 gradu­ate degrees. Rev. William C. Havey, C.S.C, paid high tribute to the accom­plishments of women in science, litera­ture, and education in his memorable commencement address. "It is to Christ," he said, "that woman owes her intellect­ual and social freedom. Had it not been for Him, she would never have had a chance to cultivate the noblest powers of her soul or to enjoy any personal dig­nity." Your guide, said Father Havey, "is the girl of Galilee, who is your tower of ivory and queen of wisdom. She is the Immaculate Lady who is Notre Dame— Our Lady." 
Alumni Directors Meet 
Harry P. KeUy, 17, opened his presi­dency with an official bang on Angnst 16, with a meeting of the Board of Di­rectors at Notre Dame. 
With Vice-President Fred Hahaffey, 17, and Directors Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 10, and Edward F. OToole, "25, Secre­taries Armstrong and Dooley present, joined by Director of Public Relations Arthur Haley, '26, the meeting repre^ sented both the new leadership and mem­bers older in service. 
The program of the Association was subjected to full and searching analysis. Many of the loose ends that the years have piled up were {fathered together in a new organization pattern. 
The relation of the Association pro­gram to the University program was thoroughly.studied with Mr. Haley and later with Re^. Hugh CDonnell, C.S.C, '16, president of the University. 

There is no need to go into detailed account of the meeting, since it dealt largely with these studies, and since the. conclusion was the need for a much im­proved and stepped-up program, about which much more will be heard during the year. 
On Oct. 3, the Board will hold a second meeting to discuss in more detail a plan for extending the activity, the influence, and the effectiveness of the Association. 
The basic conclusion of the Board was that the Centennial finds the Alumni Association lagging behind in its po­tentialities. And every effort of the Board is being directed toward sx)eeding up this program to present a more ap­propriate picture during 1942-43 and subsequently. 
After this meeting, it becomse appar­ent that the leadership of the Associa­tion this year is ready and anxious to function. Success, as always, depends upon response. But the Board's program, 
-in part, has already been presented to some of the leading Clubs, and the re­sponse is most encouragring. This would seem to be a year for seizing aa obvious opportunity to capitalize on the work of previous years, and pur natural possi­bilities. 



PRISON TRUSTEE 
Frank T. Flynn, Jr. head of the So­cial Work Department of the University, was reappointed, July 19, to the board of trustees of the Indiana State Prison, Michigan City, by Gov. Henry F. Shrick­er. Mr. Flyhn was first appointed to the board in July, 1937, by Gov. M. Clifford Townsend. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Spotlight A l umni 
TOURING the baseball season just 
Sherb Herrick, '36, of Al­bany, N. Y., was presented with a tro­phy by the Sporting Neivs, baseball pub­lication of St. Louis. The reward was a result of a poll conducted by the Sport­ing News wherein Sherb was selected by 
closed, 
Sherb Herrick, '36 

the baseball fans as the outstanding baseball announcer in Class A baseball. 
Dick Conners, local representative of the Sporting Neivs, was the master of ceremonies at the presentation which preceded one of the night games in Hawkins Stadium, Albany baseball park. The presentation was made by Herman 
P. Hoogkamp, mayor of Albany, on be­half of J. G. Taylor Sprink, the pub­lisher of the Sporting News. The other speakers were Sherb's boss, Harold E. Smith, president of WOKO and WABY, Albany radio stations; John J. Murray, president of the Common Council of the city of Albany, and George Toporcer, manager of the Albany Baseball Club. 
After graduation from Notre Dame in 1936, where Sherb was connected with the campus radio studio, he entered the employ of WOKO and WABY in Albany. In 1937, upon the death of Doc Rand, Albany's first baseball announcer, Sherb succeeded him, and, together with Gren Rand, took up the job of broad­casting the baseball games to the Albany fans. 
The trophy was a just reward for four years of splendid service to the Albany Baseball Qub, the local radio stations and the Albany fans. 
AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR METALS 
The 1940-41 technical program for the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals was announced re­cently. Officers for the society are A. R. Troiano, of the University of Notre Dame, chairman; G. E. StoU, of the Ben­dix Aviation Corporation, vice-chair­man; R. D. Wysong, of the Studebaker Corporation, treasurer; and Eugene P. Klier, Notre Dame, secretary. 
Oct. 8, R. L. Heath, chief metallurpst of the Allison Engineering Co., Indian­apolis, will speak on "Aircraft Engine Materials." On Nov. 12, H. W. McQuaid, assistant chief metallurgist for the Re­public Steel Corporation, Cleveland, will use as his subject "Making the Most of Carbon and Low-alloy Steels." For his address Dec. 10, C. A. Zapffe, research engineer, Battelle Memorial Institute, of Columbus, has chosen "Hydrogen in Iron and Steel." Jan 7 is the date for 
the National OflScers' Program at which Bradley Stoughton, dean of engineering at Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa., and president of the American Society for Metals, will speak on "Metallurgy in the Defense Program." 
On Feb. 11, there will be a joint meet­ing with the Michiana Chapter of the American Foundrymen's Association. Mr. 
B. H. Booth, metallurgist for the Jack­son Iron and Steel Company, of Jackson, Ohio, will speak on "Silvery Pig Iron." Mar. 11, N. B. Pilling, director of the Research Laboratories, International Nickel Co., of Bayonne, N. J., will talk on "Applications of Research in Nickel Alloys." April 8, H, H. .Harris, president of General Alloys Co., N. Y., will use as the subject for his address "The Indus­trial Use of Heat and Corrosion Resist­ant Alloys." The annual business meet­ing will be held May 13, at which V. O. Homerburg, professor of Metallurgy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technol­ogy, Cambridge, Mass., will speak on "Nitriding and its Industrial Applica­tions." 


GIFTS 
The University acknowledses with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
Mr. P. C. Reilly, trustee, for the Art Galleries of the University. Five oil paintings and one bronze plaque: "Battle of Constantine," by Jacques Courtis "Martyrdom of St. Fabian," by Salvatore Rosa "Russian Battle Scene," by Francesco Casanova "Joachim, Anna and the Virgin," by Poussin "Raising of Lazarus from the Dead," by Poussin "Descent from the Cross," bronze from the School of Cellini. 
Brother Martin John, C. F. X., (George M. Spalding, '31), Boston, for the University Library. Seventeen volumes relating to American literature. 
Miss Eugenia F. McGrorty, St. Paul, for the University Archives, Letter of Colonel Leath, written to Bishop Grace, in 1865. 
United States Naval Training Station, Norfolk, for the N. R. 0. 
T. C. unit of the University. "Knot and Splice Board." 
Class of 1941, for the "1941 Class Memorial Fund'=(to date) $ 127.00 Anonymous, for the Fund for Needy Students 15.00 Rockne Memorial pledges from Jan., 1941, to Sept. 20, 1941: 
John F. Pavlick, '34, East Pittsburgh, Pa 5.00 W. N. Hogan, '13, WheeUng, W. Va 50.00 W. R. Rittner, Hartford, Conn.. 1.00 Cruett C. Ramsey, Norfolk, Va.. 1.00 Edward Charles Ryan, Jr., '43, Chicago 10.00 Most Rev. James E. Cassidy, D.D., LL.D. '32, Fall River, Mass. 17.04 Joseph L. Crowley, Dover, N. Hamp 2.00 Leonard P. Hogan, Hudson Falls, N. Y. 5.00 
Total ....$ 91.04 Previously reported . 262,352.48 
Grand Total ..?262,443.52 
(Sig.) REV. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C. President 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
By JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, '32 




ATHLETIC S 
(Since the first t^oo games on the foot­ball schedule will have been played by the time this ALUMNUS reaches most of its readers, any preview of the season, written now, would be practically value­less. On that account we are publishing in this issue only the always-interesting squad roster, together ivith biographical sketclies of the neio assistant football coaches.—Eds.) 
Plajring important parts in the devel­opment of the 1941 Notre Dame football team are the three assistants of Head Coach Frank Leahy: Edward Clark Timoney McKeever handles the backs; Joseph Andrew McArdle supervises cen­ters and guards; John Francis Druze directs play of ends and tackles. 
McKeever was once a Notre Dame man, attending the University as a freshman and again in the fall of 1931. He won frosh numerals in both football and basketball. He left to enter Kice Institute, but arrived too late for en­rollment, and then went to Texas Tech. He played in 1932-33-34 under Pete Cawthom, one of the better known coaches of the south. 

The new Irish backfidd mentor coached the backfield at Texas Tech in 1935-36-37-38. Attending a summer coaching school as an instructor in back­field play at Lubbock, Texas, in 1938, McKeever first met Leahy, then line coach at Fordham, who was lecturing on line play. When Leahy was named head coach at Boston College in 1939, he hired McKeever, who was with him again in 1940. 
McKeever measures 5 feet, 10% inches and weighs in at about 178 pounds. He has wavy brown hair and gray-green eyes. He holds the distinction of having coached teams that participated in four straight bowl games, Texas Tech in the Sun Bowl in 1938; and Cotton bowl in 1939; Boston College in the Cotton Bowl in 1940, and the Sugar Bowl in 1941. He has the ball from Sugar Bowl game in which B.C. defeated Tennessee, 19 to 13. 
Both the mother and father of Mc­Ardle were bom in Ireland, so associa­tion with the Irish at Notre Dame pro­vides no burden for "Captain Bligh," as he is known. 
The red-faced, brown-eyed husky en-weighed but 170 pounds, and stands only five feet, 10 inches when folly stretched out. He played under Major Frank Cav­anaugh in 1932 and under Jimmy Crow­ley and Leahy as a junior and senior, tered Fordham in 1931, winning fresh­man numerals in football. He won letters in each of his three years, although he 
Following graduation in 1935, Me-Aidle worked for the New York World-Telegram as advertising solicitor and prmnotion man, playing with the Staple­ton professional team in the American Association nights and Sundays for one year. .He sold insurance in 1937 and 1938, going to Boston Collie as coach 

1941 N. D. VARSITY FOOTBALL ROSTER 
Name Pos. Home Tovm Preparatory School Aga Wi. BU JSis 
Ashbaush. Russell Gilman Q.B. Youngstown, Ohio South H. S. 20 176 5:9 0 Barry, Norman John R.E. Chicago, m. Fenwick. Oak Park 19 174 6:8H 1 
•Bereolos, Hercules R.G. Hazmnond, Ind. Hammond H. S. 22 193 6:U 2 Bertelli, Angelo Bortolo LB . W. Springfield, Mass. Cathedral H. S. 20 175 6: ^ 0 Bolger, Matthew Joseph L.E. Nevrark. N. J. St. Benedict's Prep. 21 190 6:1% 0 Broek, Thomas James C. Columbus, Kebr. Kramer H. S. 21 190 6:% 1 
**Brutr, James Charles L.T. Niles, Ohio Warren, Ohio H. S. 22 209 6:0 3 Creevy, Richard Cassell RH. Chicago, m. Mt. Caimel H. S. 20 182 6:1 1 Creevy, Thomas Edwin Q.B. Chicago, BL ML Camel H. S. 19 185 5:11 0 
**Crimmins, Bernard Anthony R.G. Louisville, Ky. St. Xavier H. S. 22 185 5:U 2 *Dove, Robert Leo L.E. Youngstown, Oiao • Sooth H. S. 20 188 6.-1% 1 Earley. William Joseph K.H. Parkersburg, W. Va. Parkenbnrg H. S. 20 171 5:10 1 
•Ebli,
 Raymond Henry L.T. Ironwood, Hieb. St. Ambrose H. S. 21 200 6:2 2 Ellefsen, Charles Robert R.E. Ironwood, IGefa. Wri^t H. S. 20 183 6:1 0 

•Evans,
 Fred Owen, Jr. F£. South Bend. luL Biley H. S. 21 174 S:ll 1 Filley, Patrick Joseph L.G. South Bend. Ind. Central H. S. 19 178 5:8 0 Girolami, Anthony Gregory QS. Chicago, HL Crane Tech H. S. 20 193 6:% 1 


••Hargrave. Robert Webb Q.B. Evansville, Ind. Beitz Memorial H.S . 21 172 6:11 2 Hines, Michael Leo R.T. Kewanna. lad. Kewanna H. S. 21 215 6:3 2 Hogan, Donald John L.H. Chicago, HL St. Ignatius H. S. 20 189 6:2 1 
•Juzwik,
 Steve Robert R.H. Chicago, HI. DePaul Academy 23 185 5:8% 2 

•Kovatch,
 John George R.E. South Bend, Ind. Washington H. S.' 21 181 6:2% 2 Kudlacz, Stanley Adam C. Chicago, RI. . DePiiul Academy 19 187 E:9 0 

•Laiber,
 Joseph James R.G. South Bend, Ind. Washington H. S. 21 175 5:10 2 


Lanahan, John Francis C Jacksonville, Fla. Imm. Conception 20 188 6:1% 1 '•Lillis. Paul Bernard (Capt) R.T. Mt Vernon. N. Y. Bennett. Bfloi, N.Y. 20 210 6:2 2 
•Maddock,
 Robert Charles L.G. Santa Ana, Calif. Santa Ana H. S. 21 202 6:0 2 McBride, Robert James L.G. Lancaster, Ohio' • Logan H. S. 18 205 6:0 0 McGinnis, John James R.E. Chicago, HL St. George, Evnstn. 19 185 6:2 0 McLaughlin, David Tennant R.G. South Orange; N. J. Columbia H. S. 18 190 6:11 0 McNeill. Edward Charles F.B. Midland, Fa. Lincoln, H. S. 22 193 6:1% 2. Miller, Creighton Eugene F.B. Wibnington, Dd. Alexis I. Dnpont 18 192 6:1 0 Miller, Thomas Seeay B.H. Wilmington, DieL Alexis I. DuFont 20 183 6:1 1 Murphy, George Edward R.E. South Bend, Ind. Central H. S. 20 176 6:0 ~ 1 

•Neff,
 Robert Hudkins R.T. Buckhannon, W. Va. Buekhannon-Upshor 21 230 6:1% 1 O'Brien, Richard Charles R.E. Peoria. HI. Spalding Institute 20 178 6:2 1 

•O'Reilly,
 Martin Gordon C. Chicago, m. Mt Carmd H. S. 20 185 6:2 2 Patten, Paul Edward Q.B. • Canton, N. Y. Canton H. S. 20 178 5:8 2 Peasenelli, John Joseph R.H. Rochester, Pa. Rochester; H. S. 21 176 6:10%1 Postpupack, Joseph Victor F3 . McAdoo, Pa. McAdoo H. S. . 21 190 6:0 2 Prokop, Joseph-Michael F3 . Cleveland, Ohio -, Cath. Latin H. S. 21 196 6:1 . 2 Riordan, Wilbur Eugene R.G. Sioux City, Iowa East H. S. 22 180 5:10% I. Rymkus, Louis R.T. Chicago, HL TOden H. S. 21 225 6:4 1 Smyth, William Krantz L.E. Cincinnati, Ohio .Roger Bacon H.' S. 19 208 6:3 0 Sullivan, Edward Joseph L.G. BeUe Harbor, N. Y. St. John's, Brooklyn 21 198 5:9% 2 Sullivan, Lawrence Patrick • L.T. Brockton. Haas. Tllton, NJL, Prep. 21 210 6:2 1 Tessaro, Ed Alexander B.H. Greensburg, Fa.: -F.-Marshall Acad. 21 190 5:11% 0 Walsh, Robert Michael B.G. Springfield. HI. Cathedral H. S. 22 193 5:11 1 Warner, John Andrew, Jr. L.H. New Baven, Conn. Cheshire Academy 20 181 6:0 1 Webb, Robert Bailey L.G. Santa Ana. Calif. Santa Ana H.S. 20 190 5:10 1 Wright, Harry Charles Q3. Hempstead. LX, N.Y. Cbaminade. Mineola 21 188 6:0 1 

•Zieniba,
 Walter John C. Hammond. Ind.. . Hammond H. S. , -• 22 228 6:2% 1 


* — Indicateai.Bumber of monograms won. 

of centers and guards when Leahy he-
came head coach in 1939. 
Droze is Bussia's contribution to the football squad. Both his mother and father are of Russian descent. He at­tended Madison Junior High School in Irvington, N. J., and then Irvington High School, where he played offensive full­back and defensive end as a freshman, and end for three more years. He played four years of basketball at forward, and four years of baseball at first base, win­ning 12 letters. 
He entered Fordham. in 1934, where Ed Hunsinger, end with the famous Notre Dame Four Horsemen of 1924, was freshman coach. He played under Leahy and End Coach Hughie Devore, 1933 Notre Dame co-captain, the next three years. He was a regidar all three years and captain of the 1937 team which won seven games and tied one. Druze played 60 minutes in almost every game Fordham played. As one of the famous "Seven Blocks of Granite" he played 180 minutes in three years against Pitt. 
Druze played left end, and he starred as a blocker and defensive man, since Fordham does not employ many passes, comparatively. He stands six feet tall, and is slightly over the 193 pounds he weighed as a senior with the Rams. 
Druze was graduated with a bachelor of science degree, having majored in economics. He played for the Brooklyn Dcdgers in 1938 under Potsy Clark. The following spring Leahy hired him as coach of ends and tackles at Boston Col­lege, the post he will also fill at Notre Dame. Druze has straight, black, thin­ning hair, and gray-blue eyes. 
GLIDERS A training glider built at Notre Dame by Prof. E. S. Eikenberry, of the De­partment of Aeronautics, in collabora­tion with Prof. F. N. M. Brown, head of the department, recently remained aloft for more than six hours in a test flight at the national soaring meet at Elmira, 
N. Y., in July. Both men attended the meet and assembled the glider after its trailer trip from South Bend. Mr. Eiken­berry reached an altitude of 2,000 feet, and devoted most of the six hours to "slope soaring." Despite poor weather the performance of the glider was re­ported to have been satisfactory. 
John Lane Connor, teacher of Public Spealdng at the University from 1900­02, died at Santa Monica, Calif., Sep­tember 10. For years Mr. Connor was a leading man in the Burwood Stock com­pany, Omaha. He gave Harold Lloyd, not^ screen comedian, his first part. 

Stresses Declaration of Independence 
N.D. Law Students To Study Document 
America's Declaration of Indepen­dence, as the spirit of our entire govern­mental structure, will henceforth be the basis of law student instruction at Notre Dame, according to Dean Clarence E. Manion. 
Dean Manion, recently named head of the oldest of Catholic law schools in the United States, contends that without full appreciation of the "God-given rights" of man outlined in the declaration, this country's entire legal framework is with­out foundation, and that one of the na­tion's serious troubles today is that "our persistent demmciation of the things we are against has left us with a most con­fused notion of what we are supposed to be for." 
In his program announcement he adds: 
"The impact of the war upon our American constitutional system has re­vealed an appalling general ignorance concerning the basic principles of Amer­ican democracy. Our persistent denuncia­tion of the things that we are against has left us with a most confused notion of what we are supposed to be for. The unpleasant fact is that we are definitely losing our battle against the totalitarian ideologies, communism, naziism and fas­cism, for the simple reason that we can­not beat something with nothing. 
"The defense of American policy is now at the crossroads. Unless the cause of Americanism is once more and imme­diately identified with the elemental prin­ciples of its birth certificate, namely, the American Declaration of Independence, we will soon be forced to make a Hob-son's choice between one of the forms of pagan totalitarianism. The glittering generality of 'democracy' falls far short of the requirements for a positive pro­gram of American patriotism. We must accurately define the peculiarities of Americanism before we can insure their defense. 
"One of the greatest contributions that law schools can make to the stabilization of American civilization in the middle of • this shaken world is the projection of our law in its true God-related perspec­tive. Too many of us have forgotten that in the United States law is an agency for the protection of God's ^fts. This is to say that in American jurisprudoiee rights are from God, and their exercise is limited only by the duty that God has imposed upon each of us to respect the equal rights of others. Our laws are merely the fence lines drawn by the gov­ernment between the God-made fields of rights and duties. It is not the province of the law to enlarge or contract these fields. The law merely marks the place where one begins and the other leaves off. The fields are laid out by God Him­self just as the American Declaration of Independence says they are. 
"Strictly speaking, there can be no such thing as a purely secular study of law in the United States. Religion is the major component of our legal blood stream. Thus, legal ethics, which we have frequently regarded as a mere branch of the law, is really the warp and woof of our entire legal fabric." 
Special exception is taken by Mr. Man­ion to the atheistic attitude of many of the country's foremost laivyers and jur­ists today who scoff at the idea of "in­alienable rights." He says: 
"I am not unmindful of the fact that lately a popular school of secular juris­prudence has grown up in America. These secular schoolmen believe that the theory of experimental relativity applies to all things, law and political science included. The seculars do not believe that any attribute of man is inalienable or that any truths are nnshakeable and self-evident. 
"On the rare occasions when these secular schoolmen read the American Declaration of Independence, they ridi­cule its resounding affirmations by call­ing them 'pious absolutes.' With this characterization, both Hitler and Stalin would certainly agree. Sooner or later, many of the so-called defenders of 'de­mocracy' must realize that the only de­fense in principle of our American polity is to be found in the self-evident truths of the American Declaration of Inde­pendence. If these self-evident truths are mere fatuous platitudes," too naive for the consideration of serious minds, then Hitler and Stalin are both right, and we should quit badgering them. 
"These are some of the reasons why an exhanstiTe study of the American Dedaiation of Independence will hence­forth be a ^usf in the Notre Dame law schooL" 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 



ALUMNI GLUBS f( 
CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) Wm. J. Caiuza, '35, II BoMmont Are., Al­bany, Fra. ; Jmmei J. Drislane, ex. '38, 756 Madison Ave,, Albany, See. 
On Ans. 9, the club held its annual summer outins at Hogarty's Hotel on Burden Lake. About 20 Notre Dame men and their friends enjoyed an afternoon of swimming, horseback riding, Softball, and later, dinner. Among those attend­ing were Paul DcTctaiu, Bin and Jack Casaxza, Ed Kenefake, Frank Kelly, Sherb Berrick and James Drislane. 
On Sept. 6, the club conducted another get-together at Circle Inn, outside of Albany. There 
•was a large turnout of members -with their -wives and girl friends. Many present students at Kotre Dame were in attendance. 
Dan Ciinlia has been appointed basketball coach at Siena College. Loudonville, N. Y. 
Bin Braniran, '38. was graduated from Albany Law School this past June and is now a member of the F.B.L 
BiU Fifzpatrick, of Troy, is. now on active dutv as a lieutenant in the U. S. Army. 
CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-Ill.) Ambrose HcGinnis, '24, 422 Sondi "E" St., Cnwn Point. Ind., Prts.; Fred J. Solraan, Jr., '28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond, Ind. Sec 
Judge John Wallace, *27. underwent an opera­tion on his back, Aug. 1, at Passavant Hospital in Chicago. The operation was necessary because of an old football injury, and Dr. James A. Stack, former classmate of John's, was in charge. After spending five weeks at the hospital, John was moved to his home in Calumet City, HI., where he will be forced to spend another six weeks convalescing. John's address is 904 Golf Court, Calumet Gty, 111. 
Fred J. Solman. 

CENTRAL OHIO Loaia C. Mnrphy, '33, 2357 Livingston Ave., Colambns, Ptes.: Daniel F. Cannon, '30, 8 East Broad St, Colnmbns, Sec 
The club held its first luncheon Sept. 8 at the University Club. We had as our guests Jack Baker, Bin Grafe, Frank HcGeondi, and James 
L. Farrct, who are starting at Notre Dame this year. President Bad Harphy welcomed them into the club. Ray Eidienlaab, Jade Cannon and Harty Neater gave them much advice. 
Also present at the luncheon were Dr. James 
C. Flanisan, Pete V. Pan!, from Zanesville, Ohio, Robert Mamane, who lives in Dillon Hall. C. J. Conley, Tom EidMnlanb, son of Ray, Joe Ryan, our treasurer, Ted Kramer, Harry Nester, Bad Mnrphy, and the Cannons. 
Bod Harpliy said we would hold our luncheons at 12 noon Monday of each week. Dan F. Cannon. 
CHICAGO John F. CUtk. '35, 4738 Waahington St.. CUcaco, Pie*.: Franklyn E. Doan, '29, 314 17th St.. WUmette, m.. Sec 
Well, sir, it's this way. Tbere's a big, muscular guy named BIU Steinkeaper who does a promo­tion stint at the Palmer House, and a big guy named Ft u Ocleridi who is trying to make the 
The 1940 - 1941 Alumni Board 
Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, DJ)., New York City ........Jltmorary President Harry F. Kelly, '17, Detroit and Lansing, Mich.. J'resident Frederick T. Mahaffey, '17, Indianapolis, Ind. First Vice-President Alfonso A. Scott, '22, Los Angeles, Calif. ..Seeorid Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Ind. Secretary-Treasurer William E. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind Assistant Secretary Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, IlL . Director to 19i2 John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich. Director to i9i3 William J. Mooney, Jr., '15, Indianapolis, Ind. Director to 19U Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, '10, Mentor, Ohio ,. Director to 19i5 
Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15, Columbus, Ohio 
'^ -if^^M 

The Central Ohio Clah. had its annoal picnic on Jane 28 at the cottage of Dr. H. Duin, near Colnmbos. Attendinc were, left to tight, in Oe front row: Jadse McBride, George Watlenaaiie. Dr. Dnnn, Joe Falkenback. Dick Rodenfds. F. M. Ziegler. 
In the back row are: Jim Grace. J»A Cannon, Ed Kirwin, Jack Geddes. John Varley, Out Rice. Dr. Greinwold, John HcGlynn, Bad Mnrphy. Jehn Hughes, Harry Nester, Fritz Steinbaker and Bad Wilhelmy. 
world safe for chili sauce and maple syrup. So they put their heads together as they have been doing for the past four or five summers — and engineered the annual Chicago Clob golf tour­nament. 
Thursday, Aug. 7 was the day. St. Andrews Country Club of West Chicago, IlL (which is just about three miles east of Denver. Colo.) was the place. TTie greens were all manicured down to the quick and the fairways were shorter than the nape of your neck after BiU Roach baa worked on you. There was stuff in the ice box and steaks on the grill. 
So what happened? You know what happened. Harry Baldwin won it again. This was the fourth or fifth or sixth tfme that Southpaw Harry has won the honors and. if the memory of man run­neth not to the contrary, maybe it's an even ten he's won now. Anyhow, Harry won it again and the cup belongs to him permanently, and if he wants to spike it down to his mantelpiece that's all right with the club. 
But this time it wasn't so easy. Harry finished in a dead heat with Judge Toa Hohan, Ned Jor­dan and Eddie Meldiionc (They had a special foursome at Elmhnrst Country Club a few days later and Harry won the playoff.) John Dorcaa finished fifth, just oat of the play-off bracket, and Harold L Reynolds, sometimes known as the Llama of LaSalle Street, suddenly turned into the 
.j:x-Offieio Director to 1942 

lynx of the links and pulled up a neat sixth. niere were 51 contestants and 52 prizes and you don't lose votes that way. The Peoria system of scoring was used. Boiled down to its essentials, this system spedfies that the guy who was absent from school the day they studied arithmetic and who, on top of that, is willing to beat the truth soft aionnd the ears, can't miss. 
Anyhow, it was a swell golf party, one of the best the Chicago Club has ever had, and pith helmets off to BiU Stcinfcemper (pronounced Chumley) and to Fran Oelerich (pronounced Butch.) 
But the golf bosineifs wasn't all. Forty mem­bers of the Fighting Irish Flying Stiuadron, who had been in training all summer at Carti»-Wrigfat Airport, Glenview, III., were guest* of the club at the dinner which followed the golf. Headed by Oimmander Kdiard Whitad, U.SJi.. and Lieut. Cbmm. Biehard Gaines, V.SJS., the recent graduates who have become attached to the Naval Air Corps delighted the older grads with their presence. 
Jad( Clatk is acting as president of the club, Gearge Bnatisa a having left Chicago in early Hay for Miam!. Fla.. where be will be practidng law come antomn. Bad blow that it was for the club to lose George and his copious capacity for work and co.operation; it was decidedly good for­tune that one so able and diligent as Vice-presi­dent Clark was available for the driver's seat. 
The Chicago Club directory, replete with the names of 1,300 alumni, where they can be fmnd, what they do for a living and what kind of apple pie they like for lundi, was published in late May and mailed to all alumni. It was dedi­cated to Falter Hagh oa>«uKll. 
Flans are being formulated for an October smoker and a November dance. More of that later. 
Franklyn E. Daaa. 

CINCINNATI Jaaepk P. KiBaeaiT. 18.1717 Fcnwaad Ava.. Pni.: Fnak I. Bneaun. ex. 15. 3C45 lU ­dfelBK Ans, Sec 
At its annual summer picnic at the Miami Boat Club on Thursday. July 10, the club had as its goests the fdknring prospective Notre Dam* nten: BajaMiri GadiWBS. Barry Haas—, Batcit HacAaan, and Paal McKec 
Thirty'^me, including some of the undergradu­ates; took part in the festivities, which consisted of a saperiative dinner, preceded by a very nn­profftonal baU game 
Emraett Crowe is the new assistant to his 
brother Clem at Xavier University. iVIatt Themes 
has succeeded Emmett as head coach at Ro^cr 
Bacon high school in Cincinnati. Hugh Bums has 
signed as his assistant. 
Frank Brocman. 
CLEVELAND Jerome G. Reidy, '30, 17109 Detroit Ave., Lakcwood, O., Pres.; Edward D. Raddatz, ex. '35, 2630 N. Moreland Blvd., Sec 
Your new secretary hops to his first duties as your correspondent. I hope that we this year can do as fine a job for the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland as did our predecessors — Nick Ruf­finff, Jeriy Reidy, Bob Mazancc and Alike Craw­ford. They were s\vell officers and worked hard for the entire year. 
We had our annual election in May and elected the following: Jeny Reidy, president; Jim Up­ridiard, vice-president; Ed Gough, treasurer; Jobn Mnrphy, honorary president; Father Ed Seward, chaplain; Bob Stack, membership secre­tary ; CU>'t Leronx, chairman of employment service; and myself, secretary. The Board of Governors for the year is made up of the follow­ing: Bob Butler, Al Lawton, Val Dcalc, Chuck Rohr, Marty Rini, Bob Blazanec, Pete Champion, Mike Crawford, and Al GrisantL 
We may as well brag a bit and mention our local boys who made good in the election of offi­cers for the national Alumni Association. Father Moriarity was elected a director; Pat Canny, lieutenant governor; and Clayt Lcroux, district governor. We did very well this year. 

Bob Stack has gone to work for two good Irishmen who run the Cleveland Hospital Service Association. Joe MnUiEan is at Thompson Prod­ucts. Bob Dowd is one of our big bankers; he*s with National City. In case the National City runs out of money some day Bob can just run down the street to fhe Federal Reser\-e and see Bob Howley, who says 'they always have a few extra bucks down there. We take our hat off to our new boys, Vic Gnlyassy, who not only ran a swell summer dance, but made a little money at the same time. Making money on a summer dance is a real treat. More power to you, Vic 
Bob Morrissey, our local hotel (Statler, in case you want to know) big shot won the golf cup again this year. The golf party was its usual success. 
Fritz Slackford (he's one of the Xxiunge Club boys at Rohr's with Bill Van Rooy, Gene Kane, and. of course, Chadc Rohr) - now has an estate in Vermillion. Al Somer just moved into a beau­tiful new home this summer. Jack Reidy, John Marphy, and Chuck Rohr all went to Father Bfortarty's bazaar in Mentor a few weeks ago. By the way. Father Trahcy, from the Univer­sity, spent the summer helping Father Mike. 
TTiree of our boys have moved up on the ladder. Ed Crodcett has been made advertising manager at National Refining. Al Lawton has been made agency supervisor for Aetna Life. Bob BnUer is leaving United Air Lines to join the American Airlines in sales promotion. The Butlers now have Bob Jr., their second child, incidentally. Al Lawton and Patsy have another girl, their second. 
We -were hoping to get a letter from F. D. R. before we sent this report in; we're not sure where all of our boys are in the Army, but we do know that Howard Miller and Jim Dnbbs are up at Camp Lewis in Washington. Jack Collins is out of the Army now and back at his law of­fice. Glad to see you back. Jack! Clayt Lcroux is in a new law office. Davies and Eschner in the Union Commerce BIdg. John Murphy has also moved his law books to the Union Commerce Bldg. Tom Conley coached the All-Stars for their game with the Cleveland Rams. Cec Hobert is looldng for the first snow. He is one of our most ardent skiing fans. He made several trips up to New York state last winter and is planning on the same for this year. Tom Kiener and Mrs. Tom spent their vacation at Cape Cod and New York City seeing shows. Joe Fitzgerald (he's sales manager for Red Rock Cola) planning some sales meetings at his old stamping ground, the Statler. Tom LaLonde was in town recently and asked to be remembered to all his Cleveland friends — Cleveland friends, please note. Charlie Butler will get his degree in music from Oberlin College next June. His brother, Joe Batler, and family were here from Chicago over Labor Day. 
One of the most important things of the mo­ment is the coming football season. Chndc Bohr is going to run a special to the Carnegie Tech game. For further details, get in touch with Chuck at CHerry 1352. Let's have a big turn-out. 
The" annual football rally will be held at Fischer-Rohr's on Saturday, Octi 25. The prize will be two round trips and two tickets to the Army game in New York. Hugh Ball and 12 co-chairmen are working out the details, so it is sure to be a bang-up success. We might add here that when you guys get your books of tickets to sell, hop right on the job. Last year the officers of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland were able to send a check to the University establishing a permanent scholarship. The check was for one thousand dollars — a lot of dough, but we would like to do better this year. It will be an easy job for Hugh and his committee if everyone digs in and sells one or two or three books of tickets. 
Not that we are noted for any particular degree 
of modesty, but for some reason we have let go 
till the last of what we consider one of the big­
gest bits of news in these parts — we got our­
selves a baby on Friday, the 13th of June — a 
boy — Peter Dustin. 
Fd Raddatz. 
DENVER 
Bart W. O'Hara, '32. 1325 Hudson St . Pres.; 
Eugene S. Blish, '31. 1550 Oneida St., Sec 

Jack O'Malley was the winner of this year's Denver Notre Dame Club scholarship, according to an announcement by Scholarship Committee Chairman Charlie Haskell. A special scholarship award was made this year to Bob Flynn. who until recently carried the mail to J. Edgar Hoover's desk in Washington. Both boys enrolled as freshmen in Electrical Engineering. Along with them will be six other Denver boys—our big­gest contribution to date to a Notre Dame fresh­man class. 
Jack Sheehan stepped into the ranks of the Father's Club with seven-pound Judith Ann. 
We had the privilege of a summer visit from Frank Lloyd and Miss ^thleen Lloyd who came the Denver-way to the Pacific Coast. Postmaster General Frank Walker stopped in Denver long enough to take care of official business and then say hello to some 25 local Notre Damers who gathered at the Denver Athletic Club to meet him. Al O'Ateara handled the arrangements for the get-together. 
President Bart O'Hara was on deck to welcome Head Coach Frank Leahy to Denver on a "be­tween-planes" visit to us. Ed WnrtzebacA, Father O'Donnell's secretary, brought his wife, Alice, out west this summer to show her the "old home town." Art Sandusky, with the Solicitor General's office of the Dept. of Agriculture, was in Denver last month. Jerry O'Dowd, Heth Westoff, and Jack Denny summer-schooled at the University of Colorado. 
Jack Wmdden. long-time prexy of the Los An­geles alumni, came to Denver to live. Herh FairaU is flying with the Royal Canadian Air Force. Daniel Pflanm was called to service with the Chemical Warfare Service at Edgewood Arsenal, Md. Felix Pocliano is doing "squads-right" down in Texas at Fort Bliss, and Chndc Cassidy is a flying cadet. 
The annual summer picnic was held at Herb FairalTs mountain cabin. Among the mountaineers for the day were: Bart O'Hara. Harry Lawrence. Al Jkmds, Charlie Haskell, Al O'Meara. Jeny O'Dowd. Tom Tiemey, Tom BariTi Jade Wadden. Ed Bfansfield, and John Humphreys and host Hcib FairaB. 
Chairman Ed Mansfield, of the Varsity Flyer Committee, says that this year's special football train will head for the Southern Cal game on tfie campus, with siiecial arrangements being made for an over-flow Varsity Flyer group to the Northwestern game the preceding week. This will be Denver's ninth and tenth running of the Var­sity Flyer to Notre Dame football games. The committee, headed by Ed Mansfield and Al Doads. includes John Humphreys, Bill Dick. Louie Hough. JadE Shedtan and Gene Blish. Over 300 Notre Dame fans will be vrith us on these trips, which enable the club to maint^n its yearly state-wide scholarship award. 
Gene Blish. 
GREATER LOUISVILLE (Kentucky) Lonis J. Hollenbach, Jr.. ex. 37. Glencoe Distillei7> LoaisvUle, Pres.; Charles G. Mor­row. '3S. 2418 ValetU Road. Louisville. Sec. 
In July the club held its annual outing at the Monarch Club on the Ohio River, with horseshoes, croquet, softball, and barbecued spare-ribs fea­tured. 
In August the club had its fall dance at Gypsy Village. This affair is held mainly for the pur­pose of providing some Notre Dame activity be­fore the students return to school. 
Frank Leahy stopped off in Louisville between planes, but not long enough for a delegation of 25 members to greet him and to wish him success. 
Plans for the 1941-42 Bowling X^eague were set forth in detail at the August meeting by Bill Bosler and John Bannon; indications point to a bulging roster and a lot of fun. 
The club wishes to extend an invitation to all 
Notre Dame men stationed at Bovnnan Field, 
Louisville, and Fort Knox to attend its meetings, 
and to join the bowling league. 
Charies G. Blorrow. 
INDIANAPOLIS Joseph H. Arffus, '35, R.R. 14, Box 70-E, Pres.; William H. Konop. '28. 240 N. Bleri­dian St., Sec 
The annual golf tournament and dinner was held this year at the Hillcrest Country Club on July 31. 
Hiis activity was conducted under the chair­manship of Pat Fisher, assisted by President Joe Areas, Treasurer Bob Moynahan. and past Presi­dent GBS BondL Golfers, as usual, registered with Georce Smith, while non-golfers were enjoying the pool. An excellent steak dinner topped off the day for a crowd of 100. Comptroller Frank Lloyd and his assistant. Ed Abirray, were down from the University. Comfortable chairs were in use to a late hour. 
Bill Konop. 
MEMPHIS Autin K. Hall. '26, 967 Shrine Bldg., Pres.; JoMph A. Canale, '38, 1433 Poplar Ave., Sec 

The club had its annual summer picnic. Ar­rangements were made by President Austin Hall and Treasurer T. F. Dohogne. We had not realized what a terrific toll the draft had taken among our ranks until we noticed the absent of many regularly attending members. The latest departure was that of Phil Canale, Jr.. to Fort Oglethorpe. His departure interrupts his legal education at Vanderbilt after one year of law. 
After a two-year. absence. Bill Whitman, '37, returned to Memphis to embark upon a business Career. Bill has spent the' past two years in the employ of United Fruit Co., in Guatemala. Inci­dentally, his friends are enjoying the first oppor­tunity to see young Bill m , who was horn in Guatemala in July. 

A numher of alumni are now employed at the 
Tennessee Fbwder Co. Among these who are non­
residents of Memphis are: J. H. Bevins, Jchn J. 
Dnnphry, William J. Hetrmiler, P. F. Rosbmch, 
Jr., H. C. Kirchner, and V. Franscen. 
Joe Canale. 

MILWAUKEE 
C. W. Collins, ex. '31, 208 E. Wisconsin Ave., Pros.; John E. Clander, '34, 1219 W. Vliat St., Sec 

The cluh again started off the fall season with its annual picnic at the Chenequa Country Cluh. Aug. 13. Election of officers was held and the following men were elected: president, C. WilUam Collins; vice-president. Brother Venard, G.S.C., St. Charles Boys' Home; secretary and treasurer, Jchn E. Claader. 
The hoard of directors for the coming year will be appointed ac a meeting this month. 
Some of the men present at the picnic were, Thomas C. Kelly, Paul Bmst, William Brown, James Wheeler^ Bill Collins, John Burke, Earl McCarron, Ed Hackett, Ed Redmond. Brother Venard, CS.C, Father EIner Gross, CSX., Water­town, Wis., Father Al Dayberry, CS.C, Water­town, Father McGarvey, CS.C., Bengal mission­ary on leave. Father Teske, C.S.C, who was here visiting, and Father Thilman, C.S.C, who is at St. Charles Boys' Home, Robert Sanford, David Froehlidi, and Dr. J. R. Dnndon. A definite sched­ule of events is being planned for the coming year. Our noon luncheons on Thursdays will start soon, and any Notre Dame men passing through Milwaukee should plan on joining us. The Mary­land Hotel, where we have all of our maetings, has a club roster at the desk for anyone from out of town to consult. 
MINNESOTA Gerald McKay, '30, 3312 11th Ave., S., Min­neapolis, Pres.; Robert M. Tegeder, ex. '36, 7 S. 6th St., Rlinneapolis, Sec. 
Our Minnesota Alumni group got together for two occasions during the summer months. The most important gathering of the year was tho Ninth National Eucharistic Congress held in the Twin Cities, Notre Dame men were active on many of the committees: P. W. O'Grady was chairman of the housing committee; others as­sisted in various capacities, and all participated in the event. 
One hundred and five members, wives, and friends of the Minnesota club attended an infor­mal reception for Notre Dame clergy and digni­taries at Dr. John Culligan's beautiful home in St. Paul. Rev. Hugh 0*Donnell, Rev. Richard Grimm, Rev. J. F. Voorde, and the Rev. Frank Harrison of Syracuse, N. Y., were present. Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, CS.C., D.D., conducted a discussion seminar for the Military at Fort Snell­ing during the Congress but, unfortunately, had to depart before the night of the club's reception. 
L. P. Chute, '89. and Vincent L. Morrison, '89. were present from Minneapolis; Patrick E. Barke, '88, one of the leading Catholic laymen and Knights of Columbus in the South, came from New Orleans. Tommy O'Regan, of St. Paul, also 
. was on .hand; he was fullback on the first team Notre Dame placed in the field. 
The annual golf tournament was held July 10 at Westwood Hills followed by dinner. Dr. John CalUgaii blasted through the fairways for a low gross of 80, winning the club championship for the second successive year. Gene and Paul DeLay, Ml, were present for their first Notre Dame alum­ni function, and we hope to see them often in the future. Francis Flannery was in attendance, along with Rev. Boarke Motsett, of Kewanee. HI. Fran was recently transferred to Minneapolis from Seattle, Wash. Joe Scfaroeder, Dick Hyde, Lem 
J. Moes, C. J. Hallman, James Shiely and Tom Lee all were on hand. Ed Fabey, Arnold Kfein and the McDermott brothers. Paul and Ge«ivc, attempted to wrest low gross honors from Dr. Culligan but the Doc's irons were too hot. The club's left-handed foursome, composed of Jade Doyle, Arnold Klein, Bob Tegeder, and Frank Mayer, are improving and will soon challenge others in the southpaw fold. John Petricb, '24. led the community singing in the locker rooms. The event was a splendid success. 
Jim and Mrs. Galligan became the proud par­ents of a baby son on Aug. 21. Bob and Mrs. Madden are boasting of their new daughter. Prv. Frank X. Tnlly, '39, is located at present at Camp Roberts. Calif., Co. B., 76th Infantry Training Battalion. Jerry Conway, of St. Paul. is at Camp Claiborne. La. Jack Yelland and wife are completing their new home in one of the city's suburbs. All members of the club, along with their wives and friends, are looking forward to an active fall and winter program. Mrs. Rob­ert D. Sullivan is the new president of the Ladies Auxiliary, composed of wives of the alumni. 
Bob Tegcder. 

NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE Kennedy Jones, '30, Wellington Arms Apts.. Harding Road, Pres.; Thomas P. Wall. Jr., '40, 323 Lauderdale Road, Sec 
The Notre Dame Club of Nashville came into being with the mosquitoes in July. And this baby of the Notre Dame family of city clubs is already approaching the walking stage. Inexperienced in parliamentary activity, the members, forming the nucleus of the new group, threw caution to the winds,* armed themselves with a determination to form the best and most active Notre Dame Cluh in the South, and proceeded to hold a series of meetings in which they adopted a constitution, elected officers, and made plans for a vigorous future. 
Kennedy Jones. 'oO. was elected president. John Harwood, one of the city's leading architects, and a former member of the Louisville Club, is vice-president. George L. Haithcock, '39. and Thomas 
P. Wall, Jr., '40, alumni contact representative, and secretary-treasurer, respectively, are the other officers. 
Besides the above named, the organization round-up netted Phil DouRherty, Walter Steffen, Rev. Anthony Van Beersum, Dr. N. A. Wennlng, Thomas McNicholas, Kirwin J. Williams, Bernard Lewis, '39, John Lynn, Herbert Johnson. A planned ancillary membership has been started with Philip Kerrigan, Jr. 
We pledge ourselves to the ideals of Our Lady and her University. Thomas P. Wall, Jr. 
NEW YORK CITY Warren S. Foge], '30, 12 E. 41st St , Pres.; Timothy J. Toomey, '30, Royal Indemnity Co., 130 Williams St. (Claims Dcpt.) Sec 
The club opened the fall program of events Sept. 4. at the Center Club, Hotel Biltmore. when prexy Warren Fogel welcomed an overflow gath­ering, including 70 incoming freshmen and their fathers. Warren ^ane, Baldwin. L. I., winner of the Club's 1941 scholarship, was present and ^as introduced to the boys. Greg Ric^ '39. now employed in New York City, spoke briefly. Hie football movie, "Highlights of 1940," furnished by the Alumni Office, was enthusiastically re­ceived. 
On Sept. 15, Alost Rev. John F. O'Hara, DJ).. 

celebrated Ifass at St. Peter's Church, Barclay St.. New York City, commemorating the first Mass cdebrated by Father Sorin, founder of the Dntversity, at the same chttrch upon his arrival in America 100 years ago. John A. Hoyt, Jr., '32, was in charge of urangements. A representative groop of clubbers were in attendance. Bev. Robert 
E. Moore, pastor of St. Beter's. wdcomed the worshippers and assured those present of the continued bond of devotion between St. Peter's parish and the University. 
The board of governors has agreed to giwnsor a trip to Baltimore on Nov. 8 for the Navy game and one to South Bend Nov. 21 for the Southern California game. Tim Toomey. '30, is in charge of the Navy trip, and Joe Fri ^ '29, will handle the details for the jaunt to the Bend. The complete schedule of arrangements for both trips will he annotmced at the next meeting of the club on Oct. 2. 
Plans are being made to honor Ehner Laydcn. new prexy of professional football, on Nov. 2; at the New York Giants-Chicago Cardinal game to be played at the Polo Grounds on that day. It is hoped that a special Notre Dame section can be provided for Elmer's host of well-wishers. 
Dan O'Neil. '25, chairman of the Scholarship Award, opened the annual crusade for funds Sept. 3, by placing in the hands of all members chance books for the 21 pairs of Army tickets to be donated by the club Oct, 29. Dan, who has done yeoman service as chairman of this com­mittee, is confident that the returns this year wilt surpass all others. 
The clubber^ headed by Chairman Bill Daont, '08, spent the week-end of Sept 19 at the Passion­ist Retreat House. Jamaica, L. I., where the an­nual club retreat was conducted by the Rev. Cosmas Shanghnessy of the Passionist Order. 
Chairman Didc Donogliae, '30, of the Reunion and Rally Committee, announces that from all in­dications this year's program, which is to be held in the Commodore Hotel, Oct 31, the eve af the Army-Notre Dame football game; will surpass any ever put on by the club. Leaders in the fields of entertainment, athletics and business will be guests of the club. It is expected that one of the major networks will broadcast a part of the fes­tivities. Dancing as usual will follow the enter­tainment Reservations are now being received by the committee. 
At a recent meeting of the Board of Governors Cofcraan O'Shaaglmessy. '32, was elected to suc­ceed Paul BEdiolchic, '35, as a member of the board. Paul was recently appointed U.S.O. direc­tor with headanarters in Savannah, Ga. 
Death ended a long period of illness and re­moved from the roster of the club one of its most devoted members when Hagfa A. O'DonncD, '94, passed to his Eternal Reward on Aug. 23. The funeral B^iss, celebrated at Blessed Sacra­ment Church, was attended by delegations from all walks of life; educational, athletic, fraternal, theatrical, as well as the field of journalism where Mr. O'Donnell spent the major portion of his professional life. 
•The Officers, Board of Governors, all recent past presidents and a large number of club mem­bers represented the Notre Dame Club, whidi Mr. O'Donnell helped to found and to which he gave so mudi of his time and energies. 
With Mr. O'Donnell's passing the club has suffered an irreparable loss. He was a loyal Notre Dame man. and many graduates have him to thank for advising them to matriculate at the University and for the assistance they received in securing employment upon graduation. He could always find time from his crowded day to listen to the story of some Notre Dame man and 
give him a bit of fatherly advice and many times physical aid. Bequiescat in Face I Tim Toomey. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Robert L. McDonald. '30, 1032 Ardmore Ave.. Oakland. Pres.; William T. Byrne. 
•29, 875 34t!i Ave., San Francisco, Sec 
Plans were made last meetinff to contact every alumnus in the territory to see if some projects could he found to awaken interest in local affairs associated with Notre Dame or its alumni. "We start the academic year with firm faith in the motivative power of concerted Notre Dame spirit. Harry Burt in his new Richmond. California, newspaper plant is busy printing a local alumni roster to be sent to every member now on our list. This, it is hoped, will be the means of bringing the members closer together. 
Bematd Abrott, LL.B. '27, Pacific coast spot­
light alumnus, starts the year with a civic duty 
Avell done. Bemey was chairman of the Native 
Sons Committee for California's Admission Day 
celebration, in which 25,000 people participated. 
Bemey is practicing law with Bernard Sheridan 
(Honorable by the way), son of the late Tom 
Sheridan, '86, in the Latham Square BIdg.. Oak­
land. Calif. 
William T. Byrne. 
PHILADELPHIA Adrian J. Wadcerman, *35, 5336 Chew St., Pres.; CUfford E. Prodehl, '32, 6070 Chester Ave., Sec 
Lieut. Walt Phillip went and did it this summer with a swanky military wedding. Dan .Voang acted as best man. There are few bachelors left, to name Frank HcManns. Joe Wackcrman, and yours truly. When does the season open on these guys? 
Our sympathy goes to Harry Francis who lost his wife. Alice, recently. Those who knew Harry will appreciate what this loss must mean to him. Johnny Moran, of Chicago, a classmate of Harry's and Charlie Conley also asked to join with us in paying our respects. 
Dave McCaffery recently joined the Dry Dock Associates. Lieut. Bob Dnccy is also a newcomer to the club and is likewise located at the Navy Yard in a' supervisory capacity on inspection and design. 
Jack Neeson is an attorney in Washington with Uncle Sam. and J. Edgar Hoover has Jack Briathews and Chariie Doogherty. Bumped into Tom Hagee in Wanamaker's. He expects to be in town for a permanent stay after touring the country. 
Bill Castcllini, who opened his own publicity bureau not long ago, reports progress. If he de­cided to give that up, bet he could make a nice living by charging a fee on the jobs he gets for Notre Damers. Bill has the real spirit — the wil­lingness to help the other fellow. 
Random thought — Wonder what Charlie Mc­Kinney would look like wrestling Pete McClarc Cliff ProdehL 
RHODE ISLAND AND S.E. MASS. John J. HcLanghlJn. '34. Mcndon Road. Cambcrland Hill, R. I., Pres.; Russell L. Hunt. '39, 45 Olo St., Woonsockct. R. T., Sec 
On Sept. 2 Babe Ruth made what may be his last personal appearance in Providence at the opening of a state baseball tourney, through the efforts of two members of the club, Leo McAIoon and Jack Brady. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Sam Neild, '41. one of Notre Dame's outstand­ing golfers, was honored at a banquet in August upon the occasion of his marriage and induction into the U.S. Army. The event, attended by many N^D. men. was highlighted by a discussion of current campus activities. 
On Sept. 11 the club officers gathered at J«hn BIcLaoshlin's, '34. warehouse to gi\-e seven new students a send-off. 
Ed "Moose" Krause, assistant football coadi at Holy Cross College, spent a week-end with McLaughlin recently and both boys had a grand time discussing undergraduate days. Incidentally, Krause and McLaughlin would like to hear from Frank Jefale and Jim Leonard through the "Alum­nus" cr otherwise. 
Frank Gaol, grid head at John Carroll, Cleve­land, paid his semi-annual visit to "Mc" recent­ly. During his stay he watched Hncfa Devore put his Providence College charges through their paces. 
Preparations for the annual Notre Dame-Army 
game trip are advancing rapidly, and a large 
crowd is exi)ectcd to make the excursion. 
Russell L. Hunt. 
ROCHESTER 
Frank X. Connelly, ex. *34. 135 Sprinc St., Pres.; John F. Hurley, '37, 1018 Commerce BIdg.. 119 Alain St, Sec 
A picnic was held at Manitou Beach, stronghold of tlie Odenbacfas, John, '36. and Bob, '41. Attend­ance was small, but members present hurried around a few basepaths and a number of steaks. 
A few more of the gang have left to train for Uncle Sam. Jade Gore, '39. is a member of the Army air corps and, according to his father, is now stationed in Hawaii. George Ball, '36, is a private in one of the southern camps. 
We have welcomed a few of the class of *41 to the ranks o l the club including Frank Dowlinr, Bob Odenfaacii, John Tormey, and Jim Hariey. All but John are employed locally. John, with .one of those terrificaHj' high averages in engi­neering, left recently to do graduate work at M.I.T. Another Notre Dame man who has re­cently moved to Rochester is Frank Oberkoctter, '32, formerly from Illinois. 
It is fitting that two of the older members of our organization receive an orchid in this col­umn. First to Joe "Stubby" Flynn, '16, present grand knight of the Knights of Columbus. Joe is the architect for the new St. Mary's Hospital, a million-dollar project here in Rochester. Joe is a leader in everything Catholic in the city and as a Notre Dame man is very active in the alumni club. 
Our second orchid also goes to an architect, Frank Quinlan, '13. Frank is the architect in charge of the new buildings for Nazareth College, which is being moved from its present site to a new location. Frank rarely misses a meeting of the alumni. 
By the time this hits the street the club will probably have held a meeting for the election of new officers. I have enjoyed doing my bit as sec­retary. To Frank Connelly, I would like to pay a vote of thanks for his really sincere effort to make the club an active one. Praise also should be showered upon the treasurer, Jerry Fanell, the only man who found a way to get out of the Army, and the guy who calls on all my good insurance prospects just before I do. As for our silent vice-president, Larry Carpenter, "Dat Bum" never invited me down to his lakeside cottage this summer. 
John F. Hnrky. 
SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT Jahn MoOoy, 809 Norman St.» Bridccport, Prea.; David HeakUl, '39, Lonr HiU Acres, ILFJ>. 4, Bridgeport, Sec 
Early in the summer the club held its election; the new ofiRcers are Jokn Honoy, '29, president; Bin O'Brien. '34, vice-president; Dave HeskiO, '39. secretary; and John Devine. '34. treasurer. 
The club held monthly meetings during the 
summer, with our annual outing the highspot of 
the season. Over 50 members and guests attended. 
and a softball game was featured. Long-distance 
visitors included Greg Rice, '39, Jalian Tonamelre, 
'39. and Jim Taniey, '39, with three undergradu­
ates from New Haven. The ticket activity for the 
^Irmy game was the opener for our fall program. 
Our ex-president, Pat Rooney, '3D. 5s in the Army, but is expected back by Christmas under the new age ruling. Tom Scfamid, *40. Tony Bcne­doaw. '41, and Didc Sauinen, '38, all left for the Army recently. Remington transferred Frank Toyne, '40. back home to Kansas City. 
New recruits for the club include five members 
of the '41 class now working in Bridgeport: 
Larry Schmidt and Tom Rice, at G.E.;. and Joe 
Lawler, Noel WiOuns, and John Honagfaan at 
Remington Arms. 
Dave MeskilL 
ST. LOUIS Dr. L. Vincent Gorrilla, '21, 3115 S. Grand Blvd., Pres.; Bernard P. Crowley (Dr.) '28, 1139 BeUewe Ave., Sec 
Hie club elected new officers last spring as follows: president. Dr. Vinoe Gorrilla; vice-presi­dent, Valda (Dutch) Wrape; secretary, Bemie Crowley; treasurer, Jerry Arnold; directors: Ed Baddy, John Coriey, Bert CoagUin, Bill Crank, Paol Fehlig, Tom Glynn, Jack Griffin, Bob HeOning, Fran Kennedy, Joe HcGlynn. Dick Bfackerman, Bill O'Connor, A! Phanenf, and Al Ravarino. 
Our annual picnic was held July 13 at John Coriey'a farm. Jack Griffin headed the committee composed of Datdi Wrape, AI Phanenf, Jerry Arnold, Bemie Crowley, Bill Cronk, Don Gilli-land, Tom Glynn and Al Ravarino. We had 85 door prizes rounded up by Bill Cronk, Marly LMcaa, and Jack Griffin. Doc Blatt Weia supplied 40 cases of cok^ AI Ravarino, the spaghetti, Datcli Wrape delivered the meat and ribs, and Griesedieck Brothers, through the father of Ed Grtesediedc, Jr., '42. provided the cheer. Al Pkanenf did a nobfe job at the door. Don Gilliland handled the bitigo, and a better "hog-caller" there isn't. T^e club presented the generous and hospi­table hosts. Mr. and Mrs. Coriey, with a lawn table and umbrella. 
The weather broke just right and when the final tally was in 195 people had registered. We played bingo, softball, tennis, darts, horseshoes, and about half the crowd cooled off in the out­door swimming pool. 
Jim Aimatrong was don'n for our luncheon at the Hotel De Soto on Sept. 10. honoring the re­turning students. That same evening the club held a meeting at the University Club. A buffet supper was served. The meeting was the official launch­ing of the anniml scholarship fund drive. Books of tickets will be sold and those holding the lucky numbers will win two all-expense football trips. 
We also heard about our regular football trips, with Bert Conghlin as chairman, for the Illinois. Northwestern and Southern Cal games. 
We want to welcome Frank Itsin to our midst. Frank has just joined the faculty of the School of Social Service. S t Louis U., and brought a one-week-old bride with him. Doc Bill BIcGnire has been called up by the Naval Reserve Medical 

Corps and is at the Naval Hospital at Great 
Lakes, 111. Pat and Mrs. HcLanchlin welcomed 
their first child. Hay 17, and the boy has taken 
the clans by storm. His name is Douslas Campbell 
McLaushlin. 
Frank Hodireiter. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
R. Floyd Searer, *28, First Bank & Trust Co., South Bend, Pres.; Clarence Hardinr* '25, South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Sec 

The fall program of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley got under way with a msh at a directors' meeting held in August at the Hotel LaSalle. 
There will be a football smoker the IViday night before each borne game, it was decided. These smokers have been so well attended and have brought out such a high calibre of talent that they have become almost an institution. 
Chairmen for the various smokers are •— Ari­zona: Edward F. Voorde and John I^echner; Indiana: Albert McGann and Edward J. Heehan; IlHnois: Joseph E. Nyikos and Francis Hesnck; Southern Caltfornia: Elwyn Moore and William 
E. Voor. Locations of the smokers and feature attractions will be announced later. Visiting alum­ni and s^ests are cordially invited. 
Plans for the annual football banquet are in the capable hands of Francis Jones, general chairman. The affair w^ill be held, as usual, in the campus dining hall. It will be on Jan. 12, 1942, instead of in December as in recent years. Mr. Jones has plans to streamline this year's affair. Speakers* time will be cut down, so the banquet will not last so long. Mr. Jones also has in mind curtailing the number of speakers. Chuck Sweeney will act as program chairman for the affair. 
John Merlin Guthrie, Jr., a 1941 graduate of Central Catholic High School, South Bend, was awarded the club's first annual scholarship in July following a dinner-meeting of the judges at which all applicants w-ere interviewed. Jack will enter the pre-med course. Impressed deeply by the high caliber of the applicants were the fol­lowing judges: O. M. Swihart, IVed N. Smith, Frank W. Lloyd. Otto A. PfafF and Judge J. Elmer Peak. To them the club owes a special debt for zealous and sacrificing work. Acting on the club's scholarship committee were K. Floyd Scar­er, chairman: Herbert E. Jones, James R. Mee­han, Frank Bfiles, Charles A. Sweeney and Wil­liam R. Dooley, Mr. Miles has since been appointed by Mr. Searer, club president, as chairman of the committee, and Paul Butler has succeeded Mr. Searer as a committee member. 
Clarence W. Harding. 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Andrew Auth, '31, 403 6!h St.. S.W.. Wash­ington, Pres.; Carl G. Christianson, '31, 4478 Conduit Road. Sec. 

The club ended a successful year with a smoker at the local Knights of Columbus hall. Tom HcKevitt, John Ryan and Jack Kenkle were present at a luncheon of the Manreasans Club. Robert O'Hara. brother of Bishop O'Hara, has been made special assistant to the president of the Commodities Credit Corporation. Louie Buck­ley, former professor of economics on the cam­pus, has become a permanent resident of the,city. He is with the Social Security organization in a fine job. 
The following have become proud papas recent­ly: Ray Deeley, Tom McKevitt, Lee Moorman, Frank Cawley. Congratulations! Sam (Bo) Rich­ards was appointed head coach at Gonzaga High in Washington, D. C. 
Steve Miller is to be married in October, but so far, I haven't had the opportunity of finding 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
out who the lucky bride is, Heih Jones was in 
Hath C. Bu^e. »24. Law aad naaace ]

town and had lunch with BUI Cronin and Bill 
PittAuih , PrtB.: Jahn F. Favttck. Jr.* "M. 

Jones. 
S«aai ]M« Cmitk»mMt, PllUfcaiih, See. Arrangements are being completed for the dis­tribution of Notre Dame-Navy game tickets. They 
Dua SlMttUr, in town on business dnrins will be available at the Ambassador Hotel, 14th 
August, dravped in for a Thursday hmcheon. and K Streets. N.W.; William Brown, assistant 
Mrs. Shettis accompanied Don to Pittsburgh. Don manager there, is a former Notre Dame man. 
reported that his district has four undergradoates at N J)., with two more entering this &U. F^ither Before I say adieu, may I thank the oflieers macs Breaaan is now asnstant at Oozpus Otxisti and members of the Washington dub, Thcar Oinrdi, on Lincoln Avenue, in the city. Father worked hard last year and. as president, I do Vinee was previously at St. Peter's Church in appreciate their interest and enthusiasm. Tarentnm. He has missed very few of oar hmdn Andrew C Auth. eons. L. E. Wdiiu formerly of Coraopolls, is now 
Western Pennsylvania Club Establishes Scholarship 
^^- -J Vi V '•• '.'ii', •.-I'.Vii.'.v.-.vi '.I' 
M I n I f, <i 1 in 




(the Dullar '^;io 
When, in late Jane. Rev. John J. CmnwHch. CS.C^ nec-piokbat. m l Fnak Leaky, ttitetm of athletics, were mests of the Western PennarlnudB CfaA at it. dfaucr ia Pittabarch. Father CaTaaanch received from the dab a check for $2.5»* to eatahUih a OA atkahrAip is flw ITnlvenitir. The dab wiO from time to time add to the fund antil it reache. the desired tataL Heaawkile, the Irst redpieat af Ike scholarship's aid. Francis Bowman Shipley, is cnrolM as a frrthaian. 
Alfred J. Diebold. Jr.. chairman of the dab's Schabrakip Cammitte*. leports tkat fands far tkc scholarship were obtained from dob activities aad fnm individaal fricads af Notre DaaK. balk •!•»•> and non-alumni. Individnals who contribated faidade D. T. Biadeiick. Hack C. Bark. Ber. Tiaccat Brennan. J. Vincent Barlce. Jr.. Joseph Claifce. Bev. Jakn J. CavaaaaA CS.C., Bakert FUtan, Ha«k 
A. Gallasher. Ben J. Kaiser. Hon. John J. Kenacdy. J. P. Haateveide. L. W. Msateveide. C. E. lUrtia. John J. McGovem. G. Franklin McSorley. John HcSarley. Jr.. Jaka J. Byaa. W. N. Sieits. Geoite J. Schill. Francis J. Wilson. Philip A. Walsh. Jaka C Shecdy and Jskn A. Friday. Jr. 
These are the appUcants for the 194«-ll schahnklp af Oe Weateia Peansyhraaia dak. "floated* by the dab president and the dab scholanhip coandttcc Iioft ta rickt, tn t nw : Ben J. Kaiser, earn­mittee; Hash C. Boyle, president: J. Vincent Bailw. ceamlttee; and Alfred J. Diebald. Jr.. caauaittec chairman. 
Left to riiht in the rear are: Danid C Bactkr; Thaaus Padden, Ckaries Jokn Weber. Andrew Nestor Heinriclu. Benedict Ask. Frands Bawnun Shipley, tke saccessfal applicant: Bickard Biaac. Raymond Dasdibach, Robert Psal Simpson, Frands Hallay. Babert Bazaaas and Jacob Hedvitx. 
residing at 1524 Columbus avenue, Burlingranie, Calif. Tlie Bob Kvatsaks spent thdr vacation in Ontario, Can. Hie GeorEc Sdiills did their vaca­tioning at Uiami Beach. George's summer travels also took him to Boston, Mass., to attend the convention of the International Association of Fire Chiefs and to inspect Boston's defense plans. George has recently been appointed a member of the National Defense Committee. 
John Ryan ioins the list of rising young execu­tives -with his apiKJintment as assistant treasurer of the Forest Lumber Co. The Eyans, incidentally, covered some 4,000 miles this summer, on their 
•way through a dozen states. They met up with Moon MnlUns and Tom Lieb, coaches at the Uni­versity of Florida, Gainesville. Walt Short enter­tained Mr. and Mrs. Tom Maher over the Labor Day week-end. The Mahers were on their way from New York City to Detroit. During the pre­ceding week Walt had dinner in town with two other *39ers, Tom Ziegler and Charley Nelson, both in from New York. 
James L. O'Toole, Jr., and Hugh C. Boyle were both nominated on the Democratic ticket for judges of the Court of Common Fleas of Alle­gheny County, The general election will b« held Nov. 4. Mr. and Mrs. JM Slick, Jr., have moved into a 17-room house overlooking Southmont in Johnstown. Ed has his own bowl­ing alley in the basement of the new home. Leo (Jim to you) DiUon has been a member of the U- S. Army since March. He's a first class private and is stationed at Fort Belvoir, doing camou­flage work. Write to him at Co. B. 84th Batt., Camouflage Div., Fort Belvoir, Md. The Ed O'Briens are living in a 75-year-old bouse, recent­ly renovated, on a 180-acre farm near Perrysville. Ed says the country agrees with all of them, especially with the youngsters. Ed doesn't intend to become an active farmer. The O'Briens took an extensive trip this summer, met many Notre Darners, none of them Pittsburghers. Tom O'Brien, taken ill while serving as a second lieutenant with the U. S. Marines stationed at Quantico. is resting at home. He's still on the Marine reser\'e list. 
The John B. Reardons spent three pleasant ^veeks touring the New England states. Charles O'Toole is connected with the DiNardi Construc­tion' Co. Bill Steitz, hurt by a tractor on his farm, is up and doing welL Jerry Smith, of For­est Hills, now in the U. S. Army, has written several cards to John Ference, the first one from Fort Meade, Md., the second from Albuquerque, 
N. Mex., through which Jerry was passing, pre­sumably on his way to the coast. Will let you know his address when he writes again. Might add that Rady Cmkovic and this writer visited Washington, D. C, for a few days then went up to Ocean City, N. J. for 10 days. 
Oup Scholarship Fund dinner during June for Rer. John J. CaranaoEh, C.S.C, and Frank Leahy drew more than 300 Notre Dame grads and friends from far and near to the Hotel Schenley. Father Cavanaugh, receiving a check for 52500 for the scholarship fund, told of the physical growth of the University. Hngh C. Boyle pre­sented the scholarship. Frank Leahy told about his plans for this football season. G. Frank Mc-Soriey was general chairman, William Steitz, the vice-chairman. Among others who worked to make the affair a success were Jack Monteverde, Bob Kvataak, George Sdiill, Hngh C. Boyle, and Al Dicbold. 
John F. Pavlick, Jr. 

YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO Ckaries B. Coshwa, Jr., '31, 1866 Coronado Ave, Pres.; Clarence T. *'Pete" Sheehan, '40, 215 Gniuda Ave., Sec 
Rer. GeoTEt Sdudel, CS.C. dropped in at our June meeting at Harding Hall, having celebrated his first solonn Mass on the preceding day. Most of his friends had not seen him since his gradua­tion in '35. 
Bob Dove was another guest at the meetinfiT. The football enthusiasts cornered Bob before din­ner and quizzed him until late in the evening. He spoke briefly on the team's prospects. 
A back-to-school dance at the Terrace Gardens of the Mansion closed our. summer season. Many alumni, students and their friends enjoyed it. John Kane, *25, was in charge. 
Jerry Wolf, chairman of the athletic committee, is busy organizing one or two bowling teams. Ed DeBartoIo, Bill Donlevy, Gabe Mormn and Wolf are expected to lead the scoring. 
Notes from the camps: Spike Siege], '39, is a corporal with the rating of "expert gunner" in the Coast Artillery at Camp Pendleton, Va. Frank Yaletich, '38, is also a corporal somewhere in Maryland. Chack McCabe, ex. '39, is in the Air Corps at Meridian, Miss. He was recently married to Miss Helen Jayne Hogan. Cy Garvey, '40, is at Fort Eustis, Va. Jack Cook, ex. '40, is driving an ambulance down at Camp Shelby. 
Odds and Ends: Pat McCarty is getting his Ursuline High squad ready for the city series scramble. Charlie Cushwa, our president, holds s similar office in the Catholic Laymens Associa­tion. State Representative John Bnckley has en­tered the race for municipal judge. Al Van Hnffd passed the Ohio Bar in July. John Jaxtheimer is doing government work for Westinghouse in Canton, Ohio. 
Pete Shedian. 

Graduate News 
The Wilmington, Del., area now boasts of having some 25 to 30 Notre Dame men. Informal gather­ings have been held from time to time since last spring. Since a large number of the group are former graduate students, notes of these meetings will appear occasionally in this column. ITie Uni­versal Notre Dame Night meeting w-as reported in the June issue. Since then, Harold BOWIDS enter­tained the fellows at his home. More recently, a picnic at a near-by amusement park was spon­sored by the group. More events are in the olfing. 
On June 14, Miss Margaret Kathryn Knabb 

and Jtkn Jowph Verbane (Ph.D., '38) were mar­
ried at St. Ann's Church, Wilmington. 
I^irther vital statistics: a daughter was born recently to Dr. and Mrs. Ed Bried, a son to Dr. and Mrs. Fen Froninr, and a son to Dr. and Mrs. Cari Irwin. Congratulations! 
Paal Sarioratto (Ph.D., '38), who before leaving Notre Dame admitted that Injuns were still being shot in his native state of Wyoming, is starting his second year as professor of chemistry at the University of Portland. Paul is now lecturer for the Portland Council of the Knights of Colum­bus into which Art IstvanOTie (M.S., '39) and Ed O'Meata (M.A., '40) were recently inducted. 
In order to answer Uncle Sam's summons, Ed Sandstrom (MJl., '39) recently quit two jobs: (1) instructor in business at the University of Port­land and (2) vice-president of the Notre Dame Club of Oregon. Ed is (or was) at McChord apparently \nth a Ph.D. as his objective. 
Martin HcLonghlin (M.A., '41) spent the sum­mer at his home in Portland, Ore., but is return­ing to Notre Dame to continue graduate studies, aparently with a Ph.D. as bis objective. He fin­ished his apologetics course in June. 
Becent arrivals in Wilmington include: Stan Sheeian (Ph.D., '41) with duPont's Krebs Pig­ments Division, and Carl Irwin (Ph.D., '41) and Chock Kelly (M.S., '41) both with duPont's Jack­son Lab. 
At the fall meeting of the American Chemical Society in Atlantic City the following Notre Dame men were present: Father T. J. Lane and Dr. Bin Hamill from the University, Frank Sowa and Cy Wigcins of the Seabright Company, Dale Lovell from Mishawalca Rubber, Bin Brown from Seagram's, and Tony Benning, Fen Froning, Stan Sbeenm and Bob Thomas from duPont. Father Lane presented a paper.' 
Didc Norris (Ph.D., '40) has been transferred from the Bridgeport plant of the Bemington Arms Company to an important laboratory post in the new Denver plant. 
Bob Thomas. 

•JiiiitiiiiiitiiitiiiiiitiiiiiitiiitiiiiiitiiiiiittiiiiiitiittiiiiiitiitiiiiMiiiiifiimiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiifiiiiiitiiiiiiftiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiitii 
"H 


YOUR NEW ADDRESS. PLEASE 
Military service and defense industry employment are mak­ing more difficult than ever before the constant Alumni Office problem of keeping current addresses for some 12,000 persons. If you have changed your address recently, you can assure yourself the uninterrupted receipt of Alumni Office mail, in­cluding the ALUMNUS, and save the Office much money and time, by filling out this blank and returning it promptly to Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. Thanks. 
Name  Class.  
New Address:City.   Street  (Check  wlietber borne Q or busState  iness Q)  
Old Address: Street.  
City  State.  

N. B. If you can add some news oboat yoondf and yor jmmr N. D. fkiendg, so mocii the better. 
B.. 
iMiiiiiiiniiiimmiiiimipJ 

» 7>






THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Janet Taylor Godfrey and William Francis Cranin, '29, of Fittsbursh. 
Hiss Anita Anne Newblatt and Benjamin H. Weinstein, '33, of South Bend. 
Miss Marian Maloney and James Forrest, '34, of Bridgeport, Conn. 
Miss Marie liUcille Colleran and John R. Hacan, '34, of New York City. 
Miss Virginia M. Voight and Charles F. Lemons, '37, of Salinas, Calif. 
Miss Mary Jane Smith and James A. Moulder, '37, of Buffalo, N. Y. 
Miss Alvina Sauer and Robert V. Tronsdale, 
•37, of Mott, N. Dak. 
Miss Maureen W. O'Hara and Ridiard G. Ilioen. '39, of Buffalo, N. Y. 
Miss Mary Wiegel and Carl J. Nagel, '39, of Buffalo, N. Y. 
Miss Kdna Catherine Wilson and William G. O'Hare, '40, of Boston. 
Miss Patricia Ann Nelson and James F. Shiely, '40, of Longview, Wash. 
Miss Olga Marya Wozniak and Joseph T. Paw­lowsld, '41, of South Bend. 
Miss Erma M. Ives and Richard P. MoUin, '41, of Mishawaka, Ind. 
Miss Suzanne Wirt and Hawley Van Swall, '41, of Syracuse, N. Y. 
Miss Genevieve Stape and Peter Marko, Jr., ex. '42, of South Bend. 
Miss Dorothy Jane Greske and Raymond J-Donovan, Jr., '42, of Hammond, Ind. 

Marriages 
Miss Mildred Kathryn Hughes and Dr. Daniel 
L. Sexton, ex. '23, -were married August 21, in the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, New York. 
Miss Gertrude Marie Bulger and Cletns E. Lynch, '22, were married, July 14, in S t Jerome's Church, Chicago. 
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Longstreet and Clarence Edwin Ward, ex. '27, took place in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Abigail Prendergast and Richard Halpin, '27, took place April 19, in St. Joseph's Church, Wilmette, III. 
Miss Lucille Boyd and Fred J. Solman, '28, were married, June 21, at All Saints Rectory, Ham­mond, Ind. 
.The marriage of Miss Martha Lane and D. M. Heinert, '28, took place last spring in Washington, 
D. O. 
Miss Dolores Friel and Joseph V. Lenihan, '29, were married, August i27, in St. Patrick's Cathe­dral, New York City. 
Hiss Winona Ruth Anderson and John F. Deg­nan, ex. '30, were married, July 19, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Katherine Eisenhaner and Lt. Walter F. Phillip, '31, took place, July 26, in St. Margaret's Church, Narherth. Pa. 
Miss Ethel Daniels and RoUand J. Poalin, '31. were married, July 12, in St. Joseph's Church, South Bend. 
Miss Mary C. O'Connor and Fnuids H. Reilly, '32,- were married, July 1, in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. James Carmody, '32, was the best 
Miss Helen Elizabeth Mulloy and Lt. RaynoiKl 
J. Naber, '33, were married, Sept. 20, in Holy Cross Church, Louisville. 
Miss Dora Wintress Dalbey and John Tkomas Mprray, Jr., '33, were married, June 21, in Dan­ville, ni. 
The marriage of Miss Mary Elizabeth Sheridan and Henry A. Grattan, '33, took place July 5, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Helen Gertrude Clark and John Edward Tobin, '34, were married, August 16, in Beloit, Wis. 
Miss Sherry Kreidler and JuUds J. Kiraly, Jr.. '34, were married. Sept. 13, in St. Joachim Church, Chicago. 
Miss Jeannette E. Detwiler and R. Stanley Rensberger, '34, were married, July 19, in Sao Paulo. Brazil, S. A. 
The marriage of Miss Mariorie Josephine Brod­erick and John Joseph Besinger, ex. '35, took place, July 26. in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Jane Bishop and James Reville, '35, were married, August 30, in St. Boniface Church, New York City. 
Miss Nancy Jane Clark and George Henry Shields, Jr., '35, were married, June 7, in James­town, N. Y. 
Miss Beatrice Janet Coston and Eacene F. Ling, '37, were married, Sept. 27, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss June Breen and Franda 
H. May, Jr., '33, took place, August 30, in the Little Flower Chapel, Lake Wawasee, Ind. 
Miss Marie O'Connor and John Fleming Ploaff, '38, were married, June 28, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Betty Beckman and Thomas Joseph Radi­gan, ex. '38, were married, June 18, in Hammond, Ind. 
Miss Justine Ellen Besinger and Edward Clair Hager, '38, were married, August 23, in St. Monica's Church, Mishawaka, Ind. 
Miss Rita Clare Marx and John F. O'Haia, '39, were married, June 28, in Port Huron, Mich. 
Miss Dorothy May Wallace and Robert Deren­gowski, '39, were married, August 15, at Wil­mington, N. G. 
Miss Margaret E. Eeeney and Robert F. Wilam, '39, were married, June 14, in South Bend. 
Miss Eleanor Marie Sullivan and Jokn L. Mc-Gnlaneia, '39, were married, Feb. 8, in Waterbuiy, Gc>nn. David Meskin, '39, was the best man, and JaliaB TvnsMiere, '39, an usher. 
The marriage of Hiss Louise CRourke and WilliaB HcNaiura, '39, took place June 23, in the Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Hiss Virginia Genevieve Meyer and Richard M. Barfchalder. '39, were married, Nov. 15, 1940, in T^y, Ohio. 
Hiss Isabella Haria Hackey and Jahn Joirph Cleauns, '39, were married, August 13, in Toron­to, Ontario. 
Hiss Evelyn Zwigard and Paa] Charies TUIy. '39, were married, Feb. 1, in Springfield, N. J. 
Hiss Christine C. Herman and Dr. Rabert J. BirfcenhaMr, '39, were married. August 9. in St. Patrick's Church. South Bend. 
The marriage of Hiss Cleo Emmanaker and Kiduid PUUen, '40. took place August 30. in St. Uonica's Church, Jfishawaka. 
Hiss Harie Bordge and Nathaniel Bond, '40. were married, July 4, in Franklin, Ohio. 
Hiss Patricia Ellen O'Heam and James Scatt Gorrel^ '40. were married. July 12. in Sooth Bend. 
Miss Kathleen Lloyd, daughter of CbmptroUer Frank W. Lloyd, and Vincent Gara^aiii, ex. '40. were married in the Philippines in June. 
The marriage of Hiss Louise Blake Godfrey and Robert Joseph Hoon . ex. '41. took place, August 30. in St. Patrick's Church. Seneca. HL 
Hiss Frances HcGuire and George w«*—, '41. were married. August 30. in St. Ambrose Chorch. Chicago. 
The marriage of Hiss Elnore Jay and WiOiaa 
B. Msoney, '41. took place July 3. in Waverly. Iowa. 
Hiss Kathryn Irene Palmiter and Leonard Fan] Rice, graduate student, 1940-41. were married. July 13, in Hinneapolis. 
Hiss Jane Courtney and Robert H. Bishoff. '41. were married. August 30. in the Bellarmine Chapel. Cincinnati. 
Hiss Janet Noreen Savexy and John F. Line* bade. ex. '41. were married. July 15. in St. Pat­rick's Church, South Bend. 
Hiss Hadylon Louise Lowman and Gcorve Van Bmane. ex. '42, were married, June 21. in St. Bavo's durch. Blishawaka. Ind. 
Hiss Hargaret Alice Seiwert and Knnte K. Rocfcne. Jr.. ex. '42, were married, July 5. in St. Joseph's Church. South Bend. 

Birtfis 
Hr. and Hrs. B. Otts Probst. '11, announce the birth of a son, Rudolph Otto. Jr.. on August 11. in South Bend. 
A dau^ter. Amelia May. was bom to Hr. and Mrs. K. Gerald Jaaes. '22. on Sept. 4. in Dixon. HI. 
Mr. and Hrs. WilHaBi K. Dsdey, '26, announce the liirth of a daughter, Brigid Burke, on August 5, in South Bend. 
A son, John Kavanaugh. vras horn to Mr. and Mrs. Bemaxd K. Winrerter, *2G, on March S, in East Orange. N. J. 
A son, Charles Erznin, vras bom to Mr. and Mrs. Ermin E. Reidiert, '27. on July 5, in Long Prairie, ]£nn. 
A daughter -was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John W. Brennan, '27, on June 12. in Detroit. 
Hr. and Hrs. William J. Murphy, *27, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Joan Catherine, on July 12. in Wilmette. HI. 
A son, Philip Calkin, was bom to Mr. and Hrs. CUrcnce J. Rnddy» *27. Sept. 9, in Aurora. III. 
A daughter, Anne Marie, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. A* E. Lcnhard, '27. on May 30. in Misha­-n-aka, Ind. 
Mr. and Mrs. Loai« F. Haney, '29. announce the birth of a daughter, Rosemary Ann, on July 17, in Lyons, N. T. 
A son. Thomas Francis, Jr., was born to Mr. and Hrs. Thonuui Lantry, '30, July 11, in New York City. 
Mr. and Mrs. Dan F. Cannon, '30, announce the birth of a son, Dan. Jr., on August 29. in Columbus" Ohio, 
A son. Michael, Jr.. was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Mifhael J. Bisbko, '30, on August 6, in Clifton, 
N. J. 
Hr. and Hrs. Edwin F. Cunningham, '31, an­nounce the birth of twins, Sean and Brian, on July 7, in Flushing. L.X.. N. Y. 
A daughter, Hary Ann, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Sladc, '31. on June 28. in Medina, 
N. Y. 
A son was bom to Hr. and Mrs. Vincent D. O'Nril, '32, on August 31, in Iannis , Cape Cod, Hass. 
Hr. and Hrs. Joseph H. Carey, *32, announce the birth of a daughter, Margaret Elizabeth, on Sept. 13, In New York aty. 
A daughter was bom to Ur. and Mrs. Ridiard Fahrydi, *32, on Sept. 5, in South Bend. 
A son, Thomas, Jr., was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Tbeaas L. M^eritt, *32, on August 10, in SIver Springs, Md. 
Dr^ and Mrs. Bafccrt E. Donovan, '33, announce the birth of a daughter, on July 6, in New York <rity. 
A son, Brian Farrell, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Jalui A. H^rt» Jr,., '33, on Jan. 2, in Tuckahoe, 
N. T. 
Hr. and Hrs. Joseph B, Glennon, Jr., '34, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Kate Holley, on Sept. 17, in Boston. Hass. 
A son, John Vincent II, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. J. lucen t Beuhman. '34. on August 31. in Charleston, W. Va. 
A daughter, Kathryn Judith, was bom "to Mr. and Hrs. Hichad Wicdl, '34. on July 5. in At­lanU, Ga. 
Hr. and Hrs. Hidiarl Yriberry, '34. announce the birth of a son on July 17, in South America. 
A danSEhter, Haiy Ann, was bom to Ur. and Hrs. JaBarn J. PWraxa, '34, on August 2, in Chicago. 
Hr. and Hrs. Tlw i Owen, '35, announce the birth of a dans^tcr. on Sept. 5, in South Bend. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
A son, Terry Hsm, was bom to Mr. and Hrs. Gordon Kianss, '35, on August 31, in Dayton, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. Panl D. Halbert, *35, announce the birth of a son, David Bruce, on August 17, in Webster, N. Y. 
A son, George TVnan, Jr.. was bom to Mr, and Mrs. Georce T. Demetrio, *35. on July 20. in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. G. J. Foss, Jr., '35. announce the birth of a son. George m , on August 4, in Washington, D- C. 
A son, Thomas Edward, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Robert Ervin, '36, on Sept. 4, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. John Norton, *36, announce the birth of a son, John Jr., on June 14, in Roches­ter, N. y. 
A daughter, Martha, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Eugene E, Tolnn, '36, on April 1, in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Timothy Waite, Jr., ex. '37, announce the birth of a son, on Sept. 4, in South Bend. 
A daughter, Nancy, was bom to Mr. and Hrs. Edward R. Neaher. '37, on July 11, in New York City. 
Mr. and Hrs. Joseph Fendall Froning, '37, an­nounce the birth of a son, Michael, on July 30, in Wilmington, DeL 
A son was bom to Mr, and Mrs. Louis W, Vettel, Jr., '37, on July 29, in Ashtabula. Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Miles, '37, announce the birth of a son, Michael, on August 13, in Chicago. 
A son, Stephen Leonard, was bom to Hr. and Mrs. Leonard H. Skogland. Jr., '38, on June 10, in Evanston, HI. 
Mr. and Hrs. Clarfc L. Reynolds, Jr.. 'S8, an­nounce the birth of a son. Scott Walton, on July 15, in Summit, N. J. 
A daughter, Judith, was bom to Mr, and Hrs. J, H, Tnidean, m . '39, on August 5, in Toledo, Ohio. 
Mr. and Hrs, Thomas A, SnlliTan. '39, an­nounce the birth of a daughter. Diane Hope, on June 18, in New York Ciiy. 
A daughter, Barbara Jean, was bom to Hr. and Mrs, Don P. Smith, '40, on July 14, in Peoria. III. 

Deaths 
KBEDERICK J. FISHEB,' I.L.D. *3». DIES 

Frederick J. FIsber, I.L.D., '39, vice-president of ihe Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University, a member of that distinsruisbed gxoap since 192G, died ~ in Detroit, Hicli., on July 14. He is survived by Hrs. Fisber, three sisters, and six brothers. 
Mr. Fisher -was the head of the famous Fisher brothers, whose family liistory is so closely allied with that of the automobile industry. Bated a multi'mlllionaire^ Hr. Fisher at his death vmM director of 15 corporations. He -was considered the founder, and was the first president of the Fisher Body Company. 
The story of the rise of the Fisher industrial influence and fortune is a saga of America and its opportunities. 
In 1908, F^ed Fisher and six brothers bezan in Detroit a small carriase shop tliat made bodies for another yonns Detroit enterprise. General Motors Corporation. 

The Fisher Body Company, once established as .» $50,000 business, after the vicissitudes of*an 
humble beginning, grew to a virtual monopoly of 
an estimated $208,000,000 value, as an indepen­
dent bosiness. In 1921, General Motors acquired 
a majority interest in the business; and the at­
tention of the Fisher Brothers was turned to 
more diverse business pursuits. 
Among the new pursuits of Fred J. Fisher, philanthropy toole a prominent part. In 1928 he gave a million dollars to the Little Sisters of the Poor in Detroit. The brothers together gave $700,000 for a nurses home at Providence Hos­pital in Detroit. Hie Usher Home for the Aged vras given $900,000, and the Fisher Y M O A $500,000. These are but a few that are Imown, and it is estimated that the unsung charities of Fred Fisher and his brothers would multiply this record. 
For his generosity to Catholic charities, Fred Fisher was in 1929 made a Knight of Malta by Ptope Pius XI. 
Malcolm Bingay wrote a vivid article about the Fishers on the occasion of Fred Fisher's death. It started: 
"The brothers were seven in number and the first-born passed away with the ever-faithful six at his bedside. 
"Tlius there was brolcen for the first time a bratheriiood that has grown into one of the great and tender epics of American folklore, for Fred­erick John Fisher, as the eldest son, had taken by conunon consent his place at the head of the famous family when his father died. 
"The story starts in a little wagon shop in Norwallc C where the father. Lawrence Usher, plied his trade and tao^t each one of his stal­wart sons how to use their hands and their heads and their hearts and sent them forth in the world to maice a better place for their liaving lived in it 
"The father was a blacksmith and a carriage maker — and more. He was an all-around me­chanic who made each son taice up a trade aa he grew old enough. When times were slack the two oldest sons. Fred and Charles, went into Pitsburgii, Chicago and Philadelphia to work aa mechanics. Then there began the stirring of the antonadbile buriness in Detroit — and they came, the two oldest brothers. . , ." 
The rest is American history. Working for a while for $30 a week next to another tnedutnic, Henry Ford, Fred Fisher advanced until he and Charles launched the Usher Body Company. 
To Notre Dame, and the problems of growth since 1926, Fred Fisher gave the benefits of a counsel familiar with the problems of rapid ex­pansion. He was admired by his fellow trustees and by all who met him at Notre Dame. His place on the Board, for both his counsel and his friend­sliip, will not be an easy one to fill. 
I F. Calla^er. A.B. '76, one of the old­est and most distinguished gradtiates of the UniversitT* and one of the most devoted and active, died on July 5 in his home in Fitelibnrg, Mass.. at the age of 85. For 48 years, from 1892 until 1940, Judge Gallagher vras presiding justice of the Fitdibnrg district court, hidding the lons­serviee record among the judges of the state. 
Bom in Lynn, Mass., Judge Galla^er was ad­mitted to the bar in 1878. two years after U s graduation from Notre Dame. Be vras the first prcndent of tlie Fltchbnrg-Leominster Bar Associ­ation, and he served for 25 years as a trustee of tin Fitdibnrg Public Library. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Governor SaltonstalI,.in aeceptinK Jadse Galla­S^er's resignation a year ago, wrote to him; ". . . Yon have, in your 48 years, performed the type of iodicial service that is typical of tiie best interests of the Commonwealth and . . . your position will indeed be a difficult one to fill be­cause of the high standard yon have set during your term." 
Judge Gallagher's wife survives him. 
Dadky Morton Shively, JAJM. '92, one of the best known of South Bend attorneys, died, July 
9. He bad Ijeen in poor health for several years and recently had been compelled to retire from active legal practice. He apparently was recover­ing from an appendectomy, performed in Jime, when death came, 
Mr. Shively was graduated from the University of Michigan with the degree of IiL.B. He entered the law department of the University of Notre Dame, receiving a Master of Laws in 1892. He was admitted to the Indiana and the Michigan bars in 1891 and to practice in the United States supreme court in 1900. He became secre­tary of the Inter State Oil company, of the Inter State Petroleum Oil & Gas company, and of the Bailey Oil company. 
In 1906 Mr. Shively was elected to be a repre­sentative in Indiana legislature by the Kepubltcan party. He was last connected with the law firm of Shively & Shively, with his son, John C. Shively, '31, now in service at Randolph Field near San Antonio, Texas. He was a close friend of the noted authoress, the late Gene Stratton Porter, and a frequent guest in her home. It was he who urged her to write and who corrected many of her early manuscripts. 
Surviving are his widow, his son John, and one sister. 
J. Joseph Cooke, Ui.B. '94, of Chicago, died Aug. 14 its St. Joseph's Hospital of that city at the age of 67. He had practiced law in Chi­cago for 28 years. 
From 1910 to 1918 Mr. Cooke was city judge in Beardatown, HI., and during that time often sat in the Grcnit, Superior, and Cbok County Courts in Chicago. He retired from the bench in 1918 to practice law. He had served in the Illi­nois legislature for two years, and from 1900 to 1910 he was an assistant states attorney in Cass County, HI. His sister, Mary, and a brother, A. 
M. Cooke, survive. 
Each A. O'DonncU. Litt.B. '94, president of the Ahimni Association in 1924-25, died in New York City on Saturday, August 23. Father Andrew Morrissey was the new president of Notre Dame when Hugh O'Donnelt was a senior. Notre Dame was in the golden flush of its fiftieth anniversary, and giants already walked the campus, of the type Hugh O'Donnell loved and emulated. That perhaps explains his singular devotion to Notre Dame through the almost SO years that followed, under the long and illustrious leadership of Fathers Morrissey, Cavanaugfa, Bums, Walsh, Charles O'Donnell, O'Hara and his present name­sake. Father Hugh O'Donnell. In all these years Hugh A. O'Donnell was an alumni constant. To him the University and its administrators turned in the many problems that rose with the growth of enrollment and the spread of the scope of in­fhience. Particularly in his New York career, from 1917, Hush O'Donnell was the embodiment of the Notre Dame alumnus, the liaison between Notre Dame and a growing host of friends and alumni in whose creation he played a brilliant part. 
Hugh O'Donnell was 67 years of age when he Hugh A. O'Denncn, '94 
died. But in the minds of Notre Dame men these years rested lightly on him. He was young in mind, young in thought, and young in the vigor of his appearance and habits. He sou^t youth to stay young, and repaid it with an energy in placing young people on the paths to jobs and careers no one will ever measure adequately. 
"Call Hugh O'Donnell," or "See Hugh O'Don­nell," were the Open Sesames of many of the men who pursue their work in. New York today, many of them given added aid because they wore the Gold and Blue. 
Hugh O'Donnell was an actor of roore than ordinary talent and aspirations. A professional career followed his years at Notre Dame, with such stage favorites of the Nineties as Fanny Davenport, Blanche Walsh and Charles Coghlan. The glamor of the new journalism won him from the stage, and he pursued a colorful career in Minneapolis and St. Paul, later in New Orleans and Fhiladelpiha. TTien, for 16 years, he was as­sistant business manager of the New York '"Hmes," in wiiich capacity he was the contact man between that great paper and the constant flow of celebrities who were won by his keen mind and his diversity of background and in-• terests. 
In 1933 he retired from this trying work but sought activity in many other fields as a cushion for the spring which had not escaped with the years. Ilie Fusion Party - claimed his talent and attention. The Boy Scouts fotud in him a stanndi friend. 
Needless to say, the Notre Dame Club of New York, long dear to his heart, found him a regular patron of its rapid progress, and a ready sharer of its increasing burden o£ responsibility. 
Hugh O'Donnell was buried from the Church of the Blessed Sacrament in New York City, in the presence of a crowd which fixed in this last tribute the broad scope of his career. Prie ^ of Holy Gross: whose cause he had so valiantly served through half a century; many men froa the Notre Dame Club of New York, nembers of the Catholic Writers Guild, which he founded and served as president; leaders in the bnsiaesg^ joDRiaKstie, Bteraiy, politiea], tntmmi, and cnl­toral intemts ot Not ttA, we n there. 
It was, in a sense, a sad tribute, to the inevit^ able physical acMoation that mint raae for friends like Hn ^ 01>aniidL But it was tem­pered with the consolation, to the three ristcrs and the brother lAo simive him, that men like Hngji O'Donnell do not ffie. 
At Notre Dame, by the terms of his win, the "Hodt A. O'Donnell Award," win bring a odd medal each year to the antstan£ng senior jour­nalist, a prize established as a tribute to a de­ceased brother, Jamies F. O'Donnelt. Hie |)eqnest of 12.000 establishing this award perpetuates love and loyalty of the donor. 
3»mtm r. HcKiney, Latrobe. Pa., of the class of 1897, died on May 22, according to a recent notification from John Pavlick, secretary of the Western Pennsylvania Club. 
Bev. -Staidalaas J. Gsifca,, C.S.G:, 1899-1900, pastor of St. Casimur's Phrish, South Bend died suddenly of a heart attack, Aug. 22, in St. JoseiA Hospital. He had been in poor healtfa since Sept. 10, 1940, wlien he suffered an earlier heart attack. He had been pastor in St. Ciaamir's Church since 1915, with the exception of six years as assistaiit pastor ot the Holy Trinity Parish, Chicago; 
One ot Father Gorka's greatest achievements during his pastorate at St. Casimir's was the building ot a new ehnrd. which was dedicated in 192S. 
Alumni ot many eras will team with sorrow of the death, ra July 12, of Jaacs F. ItlMS. Ph3 . '10, 66 years old, until his retirement tour years ago a pnfesaor of history at Notre Dame. Professor Hines died in Us hcnne in Kewanna. Tod., after an illness ot nine weeks. His wife and one son survive him. 
Rev. Bernard J, HI. C.S.C.. and Rev. Joseph 
A. Maguirei CS.C. ot the University assisted in the solemn requiem funeral Mass eeldirated for Professor Hines in Kewanna on July 14. Dean Emeritus Thomas F. Koncp. Dr. John M. COOMT. Professor William I.. Benitx (retired). Professor AVilliam H. Downey, and Professor B»»i;«mi.. Q, DuBins ot the lay faculty and William B. Doolcgr of the Alumni OfHee were honorary pallbearers. Burial was in Jjogmnspott, Ind. 
Professor Hines was graduated from the Indi-­ana SUte Normal School in 1901. attoded the University of Indiana and was sapointendent of schools in Akron, fod.. and ^"^nTij Ind., before tie came to Notre Dame. Here lie was a member ot the &eutty from 1910 to 1937, one of the ear­lier band ot lay teadiers who, out ot uneom­plaiaing self sacrifice, gave so mo d to the up­building ot the schooL 
A Iiistory sdwlar ot the widest and deepest proportiona; Professor Hines was an in^iratiaa to Ids students and one of the Iiest loved fignra on the eampa& 
The news ot the death ot Kcv. JasMS J. Slack, CS.C.. UttJB.. '131 at St. Mary's hospital in Bodiester, Minn., July 2, will be felt deeply by many ainmnl. Fisther Stack had been in poor health tor seme time^ bat seemed to be recover­ing when stricken with the lieart attack which cauaed his deatlu 
Be was ordained as a mendier ot the Congresa­tico ot B(dy C^oss in 1918 and was asdgned to the histoey faculty ot Notic IVune in 1919. Fknm 1929 to 1981 ha was aa assistant pastor in An^ tin. Texas: tliis was the only period ot his later litt spent away from the Notre Dame canqias. In additian to Ids teaddng duties; Father StuA acted as rector or prefect t^ various stodcat halls. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
and durins the 1940-41 schoolyear was a prefect in Zahm hall. 
Father Stack did graduate work at the Univer­sity of Chicaso and at Harvard University. He received his M.A. from Notre Dame in 1926. He was born in Springfield, HI., Nov. 22, 1S92, and^ entered the novitiate on Aue. 15, 1913. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, was the celebrant of the requiem Mass at the funeral in the Sacred Heart Church on the campus. Surviving are two brothers, Thomas Stack, of Detroit, and William Stack, of Spring­field, and two sisters. Miss Mary Stack, a t^vin of Father Stack, and Miss Anne Stack, both of Springfield. 
Dr. Frcderidc Bonine, LI1.D. '19, the noted eye specialist, died in his home in Niles, Mich., Aug. 22, after an illness of three years. He was forced to retire from practice in 1938 at the age of 7-4. after an illness of pneumonia aggravated by a stroke. 
It is estimated that during his nearly four decades of practice Dr. Bonine treated 1,500,000 patients from the United States, Canada, and foreign countries. They came to his bumble, old-fashioned office in the upstairs of a Niles busi­ness btulding, and often waited in line for hours to see him. He often treated 200 persons in a single day. Dr. Bonine never made appointments. No one was charged more than two dollars for a treatment. If the patient was needy the doctor would accept no fee at all. 
In 1919 the University of Notre Dame conferred on Dr. Bonine the degree of Doctor of Laws for being ".. . a distinguished specialist in a delicate and difficult department of medicine, whose pro­fessional labors have brought fame to his city and whose benefactions to the poor through gratu­itous service have endeared him to his fellow-
Roncld J. HcNainee, LittB. '24, manager of the Ballston Spa Woolen Mills, died on June 17 at his home in Ballston Spa, N. Y., after a long illness. Bon is survived by his wife and three small daughters, and by his father and mother, two sisters and one brother. 
The Sexton family of Indianapolis was made to bear additional sorrow when Joseph F. Sexton, 
LL.B. '26, an Indiana state senator from 1937 to 1941, died on June 26 in St. Vincent's Hospital, Indianapolis, after a two-day illness. Another brother. John T.. '33. died on Nov. 27. 1940. A xnember of the football squad of Notre Dame, Joe was for the three years following his graduation coach of Cathedral High Scohol in Indianapolis. He practiced law for many years, since 1937 with his brother W. Lawrence Sexton, '33, and his father, ^Kmothy P. Sexton. He served for a time as trust officer of the Fidelity Trust Co.. Indian­apolis. 
Besides his father and brother. Joe is survived by his wife, two sons and four daughters, and by his mother and a sister. 
Alfred A. Vignos, ex, '96, sent word of the death of his son, Jolin A. Viffnos, Fh.B. Com. '26, in August. SurviWng John are his wife and two children. 
Sister Maiy Philip BtnlvihiU. S.C., M.A. '27. Collese of Mt. St. Joseph, Mt. S t Joseph, Ohio, is dead, according to a postoffice notification. 
Georre W. GaetfSer, Ph.B. Com. '27, an auditor in the Detroit office of the Michigan Sales Tax Commission, died Aug. 25 in Detroit after a brief-illness. He was an active member of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, 
Survinng are his wife, his mother, and three sisters. The burial was in. Monroe, Mich., where George was bom. 

NeXvs of the death of Albert J. Flynn. Chicago. a former student elected to the Alumni Assoda­tion in 1928. was sent to the campus by William 
J. Flynn. 
Albert Hanson. 1931-32. was killed in a fall from the top of a hox car. Aug. 21, while at work as a switchman at the Chicago and North Western Railroad yards in North Fond du Lac. Wis. Bert attended Carroll College, Waukesha. Wis., for two years after his year at Noli« Dame. 
Surviving are his widow; his parents: one brother, John H. Hanson, '31, Waterloo. Iowa, and a sister. 
The "Religious Bulletin" carried in its first week of 1941-42 the sad news of the death, on Sept. 16. of Joseph C. Foley, A.B. '37. of Dallas, Texas. Joe was killed in an air crash at Ran­dolph Held, Texas. His brother. Dan. is a present student, a member of the class of *44. 
Cadet Georxe W. Weber, of Cleveland, a mem­ber of the class of '40. was killed recently near Brooksfield. Texas, when his Army plane crashed and burned. George, in pilot training ^nce last December, was the victim of a wing which crum­pled during a power dive. He was buried in Cleve­land. 
John A. Gibbons, St. Paul, Minn., a student in 1938-40, died on Aug. 29 as the result of an infec­tion resulting from a foot injury. 
Brother Florentins, C.S.C., former assistant superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, died Aug. 4, in New Orleans. For 25 years he had been vice-president of Holy Cross college. New Orleans. 
Brother Florentius was bom Thomas Murray, and entered the Congregation at Notre Dame in 1888. He made his final profession at Notre Dame in 1899. He was acUve here as a teacher and school administrator for many years, and was an outstanding Shakespearean scholar. He was supe­rior of Dujarie Institute at Notre Dame and the first director of the St. Charles Boys' Home in Milwaukee- No immediate relatives survive. 
Brother was buried in the Community Cemetery at Notre Dame. 
A beloved former member of the Notre Dame faculty, Richard H. Seidel. died July 31. in Evan­ston. m.. after a two-year illness. Mr. Seidel taught music at Notre Dame from 1930 to 1936, and during many additional summer sessions, and for 25 years was a violinist -vrith the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. He gave private instruction in violin at St. Mary's College and in the South Bend Conservatory of Music. Surviving him are two sons and two daughters. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Robert E. Sweeny, *03, upon the death of his wife; Rev. James W. Donahae, C.S.C., *07, upon - the death of his mother; Edcar F. Monm, '17, Walter 
B. Moran, '24, John B. Moran, '25, and Joseph A. Moran. '30, upon the death of their mother; Prof. Paul Fenlon, '19. upon the death of his sister, Sarah Fenlon Barr; Daniel Hilgartner, '17, upon the death of his father; James U. Pearson, '26, upon the death of his sister; Paal Johnson, '27, and Kail Johnson, '29, upon the death of their mother; Harrid S. Foley, '21, Lester W. Foley, '24. and Joseph M. Foley, ex. '33, upon the death of thdr &ther; Harold Francis, '30, upon the death of his wife; Aostin Boyle, '31. upon the death of his father; and Andrew L. Hcllmath, *36, Pa«I F. HeUmath, '40. and Robert HeUmatii, ex. '43. upon the death of their father. 

Personals 
p. E. Bnrke. '88, 301 Before 1890 Camp, OrieuiB* 
 New 
Rer. J. A. HacNaman, '97, 1890-99 St^ Joseph's Mineral Bathi, Mount Clement, Hidiiffan. 

From Fatker Mac: 
All the old students of those days will be sorry to hear of the death of HuEfa O'Donnell, '94. Hush never lost his interest in Notre Dame and all ihat concerned his Alma Hater. He never was so busy that he coiild not give his attention or time to Notre Dame affairs and always was ready to do anything he could in behalf of Notre Dame. 
IOAA ^A ''"'•"^ ^ Proctor, '04, Monger lyUU-U ^ Building., Elkhart, Ind. 

Judge lliomas D. Lyons, of Tulsa, was the principal speaker at the dedication of the new armory in Sperry, Okla., on July 12. 
 Thomas E. Bnrke, C.S.C., 


1905-09 Rev. 
'07, Notre Dame, Ind. 

William P. O'Neill recently celebrated the 50th anniversary ol his editorship of the Mishawaka "Democrat," a weekly newspaper no longer pub­lished. 
I n I ^ Rev. 3L L. Moriarty, St. Mary's I 7 I U Cbnrdi, Mentor, Ohio. 
 Fred Steers, 16S6 First National Bank 

ml 
I BIdg., Chicago, HI. 

Alfred J. Herbert, of Cleveland, recently re­turned to the campus on his first visit to Notre Dame since 1912.' 
IAI <) ^ ^-^'^^^' 32* Fourth St., Pitts-
I 7 I Z baixk. Pa. 
Pan! R. Byrne, University Library, 1913 Notre Dame, Ind. 
Frank H. Hayes, 642 Third Ave., 1914 Cknla Vuta, Calif. 
James E. Sanford, 5341 HagnoIU Ave., 

1915 Chicago, m. 
Ray Kelly, of Detroit, was recently appointed as chairman of the Home Defense Committee for the Region of Altcfaigan, Illinois and Indiana. 
Maarice Andrews writes, "I am an assistant director of recreation in Hammond. Xnd. With me I have Charles W. Sdimid, *41, who is worldcg at WFA supervisor. I made friends with Tim Galvin, '16. and his brother, Frank, '23. Johnny Wallace, '27, of Calumet City, has been very ill, but I haven't gotten over to see him." 
1916 
Grover HiUer,  Wisconnn 
«10 Are,, Racine. Wis. 

From Grove MHIlcr: 
Aboat July 15. we sent a list of all names and' known addresses of our 1916 class to all members. If you desire an ex^xa copy, drop me a line. If' members know-of any changes in the membership 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
in addresses, etc, please report to the secretary. Anyone knowing the whereabouts and occupation of Pete Yenu, please advise. 
Fred BC Pratalowski has changed his name to Frederidc &I. Frail, now located at Moylan, Pa. Wbrkins for duPbnt Co. 
Joseph Manuel was not a member of our class and should be deleted from class lists. 
Emilio Salazai is working with the Sinclair Cuba Oil Co.. Aguiar 367. l&vana, Cuba. 
Joe F. Hnnecas* address is Laboratorios Lex Apartado 91, Havana, Cuba. Joe is married, has two daughters. 
Many of the boys and their wives are looking forward to seeing each other at one of the Notre Dame games this fall. A reunion at one of these football games was suggested, but this plan In­volved a great deal of work and was not felt practical if attempted at this time but it would be an excellent idea for next year. 
Scores of letters have been received by the sec­retary suggesting that class of '16 have a reunion again next June when the class of 1917 have their 25th reunion, as we know practically everyone in that class. If you are in favor of such movement, write your secretary. The boys are still talking about the wonderful time they had when 35 of us lived together for four days last spring. 
It's Branlio A. Munecas — so change your list accordingly. Recently got a letter from "B. A." saying that he was married in 1920. Has one boy at Notre Dame now and the other one is being enrolled. He intends to join our next year's cele­bration if we have one. 
Keep your Notre Dame list handy. Whenever yow hear from any of the boys, please advise your secretary so we can broadcast the news through the "Alumnus," 
 J. VoU, 206 E. Tntt St.. Soath 

1917 B. 
Bend, Ind. 

DON'T LET HITLER OK HIS ARMY STOP YOU from attending the 25th reunion of your class next June. Write Bernard J. VoU, General Reunion Chairman, 206 E. Tatt St , South Bend, Ind., for details. 
From Bemie VoU who, by popular acclaim, is the new secretary of the class of 1917: 
Come June, 1942, and we celebrate our 25th year of graduation. This is a milestone in any­body's life, and because of a coincidental cir­cumstance it is even more important in ours. 
When we graduated we were ticketed for the Army, Navy, or Marine Corps to fight the war to make the World Safe for Democracy. 
Only the Almighty Himself knows what our assignment may be in June, 1942, but it looks as though we are embarking upon another adventure to again make the World Safe for Democracy — only this time they call it The Democracies against the Totalitarian States. 
No matter what our job, we should all be able to get together for a three-day reunion, not only to celebrate our own jubilee, but also to help the University launch its 100th anniversary program. 
We had a 20th Reunion in 1937, and perhaps some of you who didn't attend, heard about it. I don't know that we can improve ui>on that one except in having a larger number of our class­mates return, but a group of lis are already at work on plans, and I am auite certain we can guarantee you plenty of fun and an opportunity to visit with men you may not have seen for 25 years. 
The notice above this letter is going to run tn the "Alumnus" this year. Take your pen in hand immediately and advise us you will be here and make your plans accordingly so that nothing will interfere. 
 A. Ijcnuner, 901 Lake Skon 

1918 John 
Drive, Escanaba, Blich. 

I Q I Q Clarence Bader, S50 Pierce St , Gair, 
lOO A ^"^ ^' ^'"'> '*"^ Black BUr^ La* I lZ\3 Angeles. Calif. 
I A O I Dan W- DatFjr, 1600 Terminal Tower, I 7 X I Cleveland, Ohio 
1922 Gerald Asbe, 46 West Avenue, Hilton, N. Y. 
From Gerald Ashe: 
Rev. Father Marcel Keliher, who \7as a fresh­man in our class, is editor of "The True Voice." a Catholic weekly publication of the Omaha dio­cese. Father Keliher is pastor of S t Saviour's parish in Omaha. 
According to latest reports, Vince Hanrakan is doins geodetic survey work near KaleiEh, N. C. Joe Farley is with the Chicago Board of Elec. tions. 
The bachelor club of 1922 took a terrible beat­ing during the summer. Two of our ablest men 
— Dr. Daniel Sexton of S t Louis, and Cietns L}nch of Peoria, 111., have forfeited all rights of membership in the club. Elsewhere in this issue the formal marriage annotmcements may be found. Mr. and Mrs. Lynch went to the West Coast for their honeymoon, and Dr. and Mrs. Sexton started for Murray Bay, Quebec. Hearty congratulations to both couples. 
We regret to report the illness of Cyril Galf­ney of New Britain, Conn. Gaff underwent an op­eration to relieve pressure on a nerve. He has been away from his law practice since mid-July. 
James Murphy of Bridgeport, Conn., resigned his position of executive secretary to the governor of the state to receive a judgeship appointment Jim's success is our pleasure, 
your secretary had a surprise meeting with Jim Shaw at luncheon in Council Bluffs, Iowa, in late August. Jack Rahe is with the Shea Em­ployment Agency in Chicago. Our congratulations are heartily extended to Prof. Pat Hanion for his appointment as Dean of Law at Notre Dame^ and to Judge Al Scott of the Superior Court of Los Angeles on the election to the office of second vice-president of the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation. 
Already the boys are climbing on the 1922 bandwagon which is starting its journey to the gala 20th anniversary celebration of our class next June at Notre Dame. Jerry Barrett, of Omaha, who has not seen Notre Dame since he was graduated, promises to be on hand. Jodffe AI Scott writes: "Now, as far as returning to Notre Dame next June is concerned, I am honest­ly, sincerely planning on this visit, as I have not visited our Alma Mater since the 1923 home­coming." 
E. Franklin Miller is affiliated with the Bank of America at Pasadena, Calif. John Past Colkn, chief of the adjudication division of the U.S. Veterans Administration located in suburban Chicago at the Hines Memorial Hospital, has been honored with the office of vice-president of the Federal Bar Association, Chicago Chapter. Re­cently he spoke to the Chicago Bar Assodatioa seminar on the matter of practice of attomcya before the Veterans Administration. This address was printed in the John Marshall Quarterly Re­view, issued by the John MarflhaU Law School. Chicago. 
Pad H. CastMr, 137 Swrth Ave. Xew 
Caaaaa. Gam. 

1923 
J. F. Hayei. 3»3 7di Av e Boaa I51S. 1924 New Tarfc City. 
Al Backa writes that he was married, June 11, in Chicago, and his new address is 5600 Dorches­ter Ave., Chicago. 
Ray»«Bd A. Bayer, M-A. '24, formerly a facul­ty member of the graduate department of social work at Notre Dame, is stationed in lUlahoma, Tenn. He is serving as a federal recreation co­ordinator in the area of Camp Forrest Tenn. 
Ray Brady- was recently notified of his promo­tion from captain to major in the Judge Advo­cate Department of the Reserve Officers of the IT. S. Army. Bay's in Salt Lake CSty. 
Eev. Paul Heller, acting USD chairman and priest co-ordiator in Norfolk, Va., has announced 
. that Fwest "Fod" Cattm. '24. has been appointed director of USO au b to be operated by the NCCS. Since his Notre Dame days, Fod has been football coach at S t Ambrose College, Davenport Iowa, and line coach at Catholic University. 
Jokn P. Harley, 2183 Brookdale Vami.

1925 T«Ma,OUa. 
JaaMs A. Ronan, 127 N. Dearborn St, 
Chicaca^ IB. 

1926 
On Aug. 26, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Bober. of Detroit, visited the campus. Their grand family consists of four girls and two hoys. IVank is the brother of Fatkr Henry Bdger. &S.C, "24, head of Physics Department 
Victar I«auaer was recently appointed to the Gogebic Junior College Advisory Board. Vic is also secretary-treasurer of the Ironwood "Times," Ironwood, Mich. 
A card from Alton C Velia reports that he is married and has three children. He is an engi­neer for the Bell Teleihone Laboratories in New York. His home address is 91-30 193rd St, Hollis, 
N. y. 
1927 
JoMph BI. BoUnd, Field Houe, Pww dae UnivetsitT, West Lafayette, Ind. 
From Joe Bidand: 
Bin HoQand dropped into the Purdue Field Houses and found me gon^ whereupon he left his card from the Suburban Motor Freight, Inc., of Indianapolis. On his next trip through, I hope to catch him in person. 
Clayton Lenax checked in during the spring with the announcement of the move of his law offices to 1180 Union Commerce BIdg. in Cleve­land^ and Jsim Dailey recently suffered nostalgic twinges, which manifested themselves in the letter I am enclosing in whole. I make only one comment: in his first paragraph, John makes mention of "strict censorship" anent *27 doings: John, that isn't censorship — it's sabotage! I'm hoping yonr letter will start a string of reports coming my way, to he included in this column. 
"While enjk>yins a recent illness at home, I ran across a copy of the 'Alumnus' for April, 1941. Noting the strict censorship as to the affairs of the class of '27, I felt that I periiaps might help a little, and at the same time satisfy my curiosity. 
*'Could we have an accounting as to the per­sonal whereabouts, health, matrimonial status, etc., of some of the lads whose names I have not seen in the 'Alumnus* in many years ?. 
'•Does Bende Afcrvtt; of Berkeler, Oilit, stiU wear red neektiesT Has Edfie Bradericfc become a married man? Where does Fencst IL Cawky live? How about IfareH CesgiaTv? 
"I haven't heard of Lawrence Crowley, of Rose-ville, OhiOi for many, many years. Is Tobe Gisb practidnB law in Kentucky! A few years ago I tried to locate Charles Kolicrt Goslin, alias 'Goose' around Bemedji, Minn., to no avail. He is ursed to report. I presume that Dan Harvey is in Chi­cago, hut -what happened to Maurice Henry, of Kansas City? 
"Tom Hearden's name hasn't appeared recent­ly, to my knowledge, hut this may be due to a lack of close reading on my part There are a good many others, such as Don Laskey, Jdin Loftas. PfcU Lopiesti, Mike McDermott, McMahon from Oregon, Fcankie Masterson, John Scanlon, who might be encouraged to give an accounting of them.selves. 
"Mare Fiehrer, of Hamilton, Ohio, who like ro.vself is the proud father of three girls and one boy, dropped in last summer. But I haven't seen Clarence Ruddy since he deserted bachelorhood." 
And now, John Dailcy, here's some partial an­swers to your questions: I don't know about Bemie Abn>tt'« red neckties, but he's now a dig­nified lawyer, practicing from the Latham Square Building, 18th and Telegraph Ave., San Fran­cisco. 
Tom Hearden is coaching at his old high school in Green Bay, Wis., where he has piled up an enviable string of victories to indicate surely that fine football coaching IS done in the high schools, and that our Tom is leading that parade. 
Phil Lopreiti is — or was, at my last hearing 
in the state legislature of his native Pennsyl­

vania, representing the district around Johnstown, 
where he practices law successfully. Don Laskey, 
I personally got out of bed in Shreveport, La., 
last Christmas holiday, hut it was so early in 
the morning all I did was testify to the fact that 
both of ns were barely alive! We know his fam­
ily inclndes at least ONE young lady, for she 
answered the phone and rousted her pa out of 
the hay. 
The other lads I'd like to have a personal re­

port on myself — said report to include address 
and business connecaon, all of which helps, plus 
state of the family. 
And now — to all yon old N.D.ers. it's "bully for old Purdue" as your scrivener dives into an­other football season down here at Lafayette, on the banks of the Wabash. Or, haven't you heard ? 
• Carlos Tavates sends us word that he is a con­tractor and civil engineer with the Tavares Construction Co., Los Angeles, Calif. His home address is 520 S. Serrano Ave. in that city. It was good to hear from him since the previous alumni mail sent him was returned from Shang­hai, China, in 1931. 
Edward J. Flynn is practicing law in his home town of Jacksonville, III. According to a letter from his sister, he has four young sons who are better as a wrecking crew than as young lawyers. 
 F. Bndde;-, 3051 Idaho ATC* 


1928 Loaia 
N.W., Washington, D. C 

From Laa Badcley: 
As the beEinning of a new school year rolls around, your Secretary feels about the same as most of you did in September, 13 years ago when you were away from Notre Dame for the first time. I am now with the Social Security Board an a legislative adviser in the Bureau of Em­ployment Security, Washington, D. C. 
I lived with BUI Jones for two months this summer while his wife and daughter were away, niose of. you, such as Andy Boyle and Jim Allan, who.know the Jones-Buckley combination, can appreciate the fine sessions held in Bill's apartment. We had the pleasure of entertain­ing such distinguished '28ers as Father Mark Fitsrerald, Frank Dono\-an, George Coury and 
Pat Canny. Father Fitzgerald was at Catholic University for the summer session. FVank Dono­van was in town several times lining up defense orders for his company in Hnslcegbn, Hidi. George Gonry was a frequent Washington vUatot . in search of government orders for his self-stoking stove which he manufactures in Chicago. Pat Canny was here several times representing the £rie R. R. before the Interstate Commerce 
Commission. 
One highlight of the summer was a fine sesnon at a Notre Dame par& in which several *28ers participated, including Bob Grant, Graite Csary, Bill Cnnin and Bill Jones. It ended in quite a po­litical argument with the line-np of Grant and Coury vs. Cronin, Jones and Buckley. Another big event took place when Herb Jones and Bill Coyne were visiting Washington and we got to­gether with Bill Jones, Bill Cronin and Tom Coman. Tom, by the way, is handling labor news for the A. P, here in Washington. Bill Cronin, as you know is executive assistant to Postmaster General Walker. I hope you all saw the two-page spread that Congressman Grant received in "Life" for Sept. 1. The '28 men will be particularly in­terested in one picture taken while Bob was visit­ing with "Lawyer-Banker" Floyd Searer, who was painting the kitchen in his ^vife's absence. 
I want to thank George Coury for the fine job he did in the June issue. We will be expecting another report next June, George, on our 14th reunion with complete plans outlined for our ISth year reunion in 1943. All of you should keep in mind that the centennial opens in June of 1942 and closes the following June, which will be our 15th year reunion. Make your plans ac­cordingly. 
Those of you who began your college days in Freshman Hall in 1924, as I did. with Fatilicr Stack, will be very sorry to hear of his death. AVe certainly are going to miss him whenever we return to Notre Dame. 
I took advantage of Bill Cronin's good humor 

and asked him to he one of the guest writers for 
the column this month. Although Bill is one of 
the busiest men in a very busy city, he came 
through in fine style with the following: 
"Your classmates are happy over the pro^Kct 

of Backley sitting on the Social Security Board, 
comes about 1970 when some of our cases will be 
coming up. 
"Ihe nicest thing that has happened to me this past month was my participation in the wedding of Larry Colliney. There really ought to be a special edition of the 'Alumnus* about I^arry's wedding, but regardless I think I should report to you on one of this season's sweetest marriages. You know, there never was anyone who gave more serious and sober thought to this Holy Sac­rament than this grand Green Mountain Stater, Culliney. And his efforts bore fruit, as yon will see when you meet Mrs. Lawrence J. Culling', the former Kay Gillen, a New Yorker. Hie wed­ding took place at Our Lady's Chapel in St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York, on July 4, and Bishop O'Hara performed the ceremony. None of us will ever forget our first glimpse of Bishop O'Hara wearing his mitre that day. If there ever was a bishop who looked like a bishop it was he. 
**Bob Hamilton, and Bert Kelly (who didn't go, but should have gone, to Notre Dame) were the ushers, and I was the carrier of the ring. Bcmie Garber and OIlie Schell were .among those present. Bemie and Dorothy Garber invited Ham­ilton, OUie Sdiell, and me to their home for the post mortem and we had a grand viat. 
"Bob Hamilton, by the way, had more than all these reasons to celebrate the Fourth of July be­cause he had just become the father of another lovely baby girl. You ought to tell him we ar« proud of him. 
"On July 30 I enjoyed a visit from our presi­dent. Father Matthew Walsh. He looks fine and 
- is back in harness doing special research'work whidi brought him to Washington. 
"A couple of months ago Fat Canny was under­taking some curricular and extra-curricular activ­ities for the Erie in Washington, and he gave a dinner at O'Donnell's Restaurant for Hr. and Mrs. Jnhn Hinkel, Don Wilkins, Al Heniy, and me. 
"I had dinner with John 'Red* Caranangh from Chicago a couple of times when he visited Wash­ington. John is the assistant president of the South Bend Lathe Works, and practices law on the side. 
**BiIl Dnffy, of Watertown, N. Y., is practicing law in Washington but I haven't seen him lately. 
"Jim Comney is one of the fellows you had better check up on. He went out West for a visit and just didn't come back. Bad Callagy also went into hiding in Albany right after he was married, and you ought to make him check in with you. 

"If yon have any influence with your class­mates I wish you would get my old room-mate, Eddie Bafter, to write me a letter. If there is another Sergeant York in this war I am betting on Eddie because he has just the right philosophy and temperament. 
"Incidentally, these past few years in New York I renewed my old friendship with Dr. John E. Franklin, whom we know better as Benny. Dr. Franklin is now practicing as a pediatrician in New York, and he is one of the finest. He is one. of those nice guys with a passion for anonymity but you will be hearing great things from him. 
"Tom BfcNidioIas, who is secretary and treas­urer of Silliman Evans' newspaper, 'The Tennes­sean.' of Nashville, is in town today and we are having lunch. He told me that a story about our own Bill Jones, of the Department of Justice here in Washington, got all the way down to Nashville. It seems that a motor cop found Bill stopped along Massachtisetts Avenue about 7:30 P. M. with an empty gas tank. He asked him what was the matter and Mr. Jones said, 'Well, I'll tell you. Officer, I was just going along trying to help defend America and I guess I overdid it.' " 
Bill and I used our influence on our '28 draftee, Ed Rafter, who came through with a fine letter from Fort Custer, Blich., where he is with Com­pany "I," 2nd Infantry. Ed gives up the dope on the classmates from Chicago as he knew them back in civilian life, as follows: 
•*Bin Goclitz, who beat the draft age require­ments by a couple of days, recently was 'selected* to donate his blood in an emergency operation. You can picture Bill's unbounded happiness when they informed him that of all the people present, he alone had the right type of blood. He is now on his feet again and is usually surrounded by a group of feminine admirers who never seem to tire hearing of his daring experience. 
"Ray Mulligan, who not long ago lost his mother, drew a high draft number and may be saved by a change in the age qualification. He continues to exercise his legal talent in the inter­est of the same organization with which another 
' well-known lawyer — one Dick Phelan — is asso­ciated, the Chicago Title and IVust Co. 
"Bob Trotter recently completed his twelfth year with Great Lakes Dredge and Dock. He has han­dled many fine engineering jobs, and is now in charge of a bridge construction job over the river near Peoria. He, too, had a high draft number. 
"While in Chicago on a furlough, I met an­other army eligible, BUI McElIen, whom I had not seen in a long time. Bill is a buyer for Sears. He's not married, but after hearing that we ^ g trenches, carry hea\-y packs, and sleep outside on a hillside or street or any place while on problems he switched from a side part to a middle part in his hair. 
*Mfllm Lyons, who started with the ^'28 class 

but finished in law. is still stringing along with the Republican party. I don't know whether that has ansrthing to do with the disappearance of his frontal. hair. John's charming wife says that* in trying to save it, he rubbed it all oft. John is doing very well in the legal profession. 
*'Danny Considine has acquired no draft defex^ ment, but continues to give the Internal Revenue Department the benefit of his observation. Eddie Keenan, politician and husband, would make a fine anchor man on the tug-of-war team with which I pull every Wednesday afternoon in 'or­ganized athletics.' 
"Bob RiKney smiles handsomely whenever he has an opportunity to present Mrs. and his two additional deferments. Ed McGoire, the S.E.C. lawyer, is married, but up until April could still have a few minutes to visit with friends at the Atlantic Grill after a tough Saturday morning. Judge John Wallace, Eddie McLanghUn* and Bob Inntnger, also Ray McClory, like to eat in that same place. 
"Those two esteemed former softhall players, Bert Korzeneski and Bill Kearney, are respectively chief of the title department for the county and assistant states attorney. Bert has his wife as a deferment, and Bill has two deferments. 
"From what I hear through feminine acquaint­ances of his wife, Charlie Sdinessler should be about the very best bomb-proof shelter engineer in the country. It seems that when they want a good tunnel built Charlie does it. He has two deferments. 
"Joe Daly's relatives told me Joe is a very successful printing executive in Los Angeles. Mart Conley, who is the backbone of a major trucking organization, was surprised when he called my home and found that the draft board had snatched me. Mart has a fine family. 
"You, of course, know all about my good friend George Conry, president of the Sclf-Stoking Stove and Furnace Corp. and partner in many other enterprises. Bernard Epstein, the Bosch Co. travelling representative, is also pro­prietor of a hardware and paints store on North Ave. near Crawford. 
ITiis is being written in the day room which is used only in the evening. Ihe life of a private is about as private as Carroll Hall. Our unofficial marching song is the tune of the 'Victory March.' I had nothing to do with that — the words are different.** 
I am sure the *28 men join with me in extend­ing our thanks to the Cronin-Rafter combination which made it possible for me to get the column off to a fine start this month. I am asking Fat Canny and Joe Langton to give us a hand next month in keeping up the record. Please help them out by sending on some news today. Fat's address is 14700 Clifton Blvd., Lakewood,. Ohio,. and Joe's is ni l W. Wilcox, Peoria, HI. 
JadE LaveUe was on Aug. 1 appointed athletic director of the C.Y.O. of the New York arch­diocese. He will super\'ise athletic activities in the 258 parishes of the archdiocese, holding a job similar to that of Jack Elder, *29, in the Chicago archdiocese. 
John Thomas Cnllinan is a judge now. He is one of the youngest men to be named to the Common Fleas bench in Connecticut. John is as­sociated in law practice with Senator Albert L. Coles, in Bridgeport, Conn. 
1929 Joseph P. M^amara, Attorney Gen­eral's Office, Indianapolis, Ind, 
Ficm Captain John Hinkel: 
I have been in the Army since the first Army manuevers of Aug., 1940^ I was ordered to the 
The visit of Capt. John V. Hinkd, *29» Wash­ington, D. C, to Camp Lee, Va., was Ae occa­sion of ttiis Notre Dame Catherine. Ijcft to ntfikt are: Capt Hinkel, Pvt. Joseph Novak, '34. CpL Joseph Schmidt. '36, and Pvt. Roland G. Schlager. *29. 
War Department last September and am serving now as an assistant to the director of the Bureau of Public Relations. Our bureau handles all con­tacts between the War Department and the news­papers, radio stations and magazines of the United States. Needless to say, my work is tre­mendously interesting. 
The only other Notre Dame man in the War Department is my classmate, David Ldiaian. of Denver, Colo. Dave is chief clerk of the Atlantic Ferry Command which directs the flying of mili­tary planes bet\veen this country and Great Brit­ain. He is doing a grand job. Another classmate, Walter Greer, is next door to us at the Navy Department. Walt is a naval architect. laeut. BiQ Hawks, *33, is on duty in the Bureau of Aero­nautics at the Navy Department. Both Walt and BlU arc doing themselves and Notre Dame proud. 
Don Wilkins, '27, has been in to see me several times. He is under consideration for a commission OS captain in the Specialist Reserve. In Chicago, Don has made a fine name for himself as one of the leading public relations counsels of the middle west. 
On a recent visit to Camp Lee, Va., I had the pleasure of meeting another classmate. B(4and*G. Schlager. of Elgin, III., and two other Notre Dame men, Corp. Joseph Sdimidt. '36, and Pvt. Joseph Novak, *34, who are serving there as trainees. All three are assigned to the headquar­ters of the Quartermaster Replacement Center at Camp Lee. Joe Schmidt is an assistant to the In­telligence Officer, while Joe Novak is an assistant to the Athletic Officer. Rol Schlager is in the Classification Section. It was more than a pleasure to renew my friendships with these boys, and I am looking for%vard to seeing them again in the near future. 
I had the privilege ot attending Secretary Knox's press conference at which he announced that a Naval ROTC had been established at Notre Dame. In making this announcement, he . spoke very highly of Notre Dame. You can imag­ine what a thrill I got out of it. 
-ht, Joseph V. Lenihan. as a reserve of^cer, has been called into active duty with the Navy and is now stationed in the District Supply OfGce, Hiird Naval District, New York City. 
Lyell E. Bnzick, of Hettinger, N. Dak., stopped in the oftlce on his way to Chicago . . . lus first trip since graduation. 
Robert Foss. who for the last 10 years has been editor of the'University of Wisconsin news bu­reau, has been named director of sports publicity for the University in fulfillment of a plan to combine the two services. 
Reynolds C Seitz has reigned as professor of law at Cnat^Um University, Omaha, to aeeqit a poatioa as asristant to the superintendent of in-~ stroction in the St. Lcnls Public Schools. 
U Dsu—lit, 31f 1930 Dr^ New Toik Oiy. 
BOt Dosley's notice for copy- for the October **Ahunnna*' has caus^t us without news. ItTs « terrible way to ran a railroad, so jon and yoa and yon had better come to flie aid ot the party, lest be can for a new bor in this job. Hat Toaa­cy, secretary of the N. D. Chib of N. T.. sends a message annoondng a meeting Sept. 15. and he says that iim Armattmmg will be the guest. Yoar corre^Kmdent will nuul his alamni dnes tomorrow morning, so he can look Jim in the eye with a dear eonsoence tomorrow eveninicl If you and you and yon haven't sent your does in. do so at once, because Armstrong mi^ t pop in to your dub meeting, and will your faee be red if yon are delinquent? And beades. the Alumni Association is making daborate plans for 1942. and needs the mon^. ^e p 'Em Hyin' 11 
A i^end of Charfie F«wcrs, of Savannah. Ga., Tinted N. Y. recently, and he relayed Charlie's greetings to us; it was pleasant to hear from yoo, Charlie, and write soon. Uy former roon»* mate, Chadc Btfhnaan. describes a sinister-looking person doing considerable rug-cutting on the golf course at Fulton, N. Y,. and it is our convie­tion that we have located the mi^ty mite, Jiai Sdiaeffer. of engineering* fame. Who can add a clueT 
We are attempting to contact Charfie Schwartz of Naperville, HI., Al Shipacasse of Cleveland, Pete Wachs of Jackson Hdghts, 1*1., N. Y.. and Jack Yeliand of Minneapolis, for a few vo-do­deo-do's about themselves and those of the class whom they know about, and in our next issue, maybe we can report success. 
John J. Rider, of Hollywood, Calif., vice-presi­dent of the Los Angeles Club, was on the campus for a couple of weeks. He is directing college participation in the Fred Allen show, whidi guest stars one college student on each program this fall. John' organized the series of try-outs and student Sections to choose a Notre Dame representative for the first of such shows, broad­cast Oct 1. 
Timothy J. Toomey. secretary of the New York City Club, writes to correct a mis-impression: "You might announce taht it was my illustrious namesake, Timettiy (Ted) A. Tweacy. and not I. who joined the *Dan Cannon Marriage Club' last June. Advise Dan to forward the two crisp bank­notes and the loaf of raisin bread to Ted, and also announce that all of the blesangs showered upon me in error, I happily bestow upcm Ted and bis bride, together with my own belated good' wishes for happiness." 
 Bergan. 838 E. COUMX An^1931 John 
Seath Bend, Ind. 

From Jehn Bercan: 
Starting off our seventh year as your corre­spondent reminds me that 10 years have flown with nary a word from some members of the class. Unfortunately, they did not return to ^ther five- or 10-year reunions or our informal gatherings in off years. This year it will be our 
. um to contact these men and carry something about them in subsequent issues. Also, to have news every month from every sector of the conn-try, if yon will assist us. 
Jae BayliAd, the Grand Rapids flash, is special agent for the IRay^ Indemnity Insurance com­pany with headquarters in Detroit. Be makes all of the southern Midugan towns in Qoest of new bu^ess. Dr* Jae Hmhta of Columbus, in ad£­tion to his practice of medicine has found time to do some important case -work for the State Compensation Department in Ohio. Both Joe and Mrs. Hugrhes have made an early reservation for the Southern Cal pame. Alex Pctrauskas is an­other '31 addition to the University faculty and will teach physics. He recently taught at Massa­chusetts Institute of Technology and moved to South Bend in August. 
The call of the draft board threw such a scare into Bill Leahy that the suhsequent action of Congress on age limits caused him to vacation in Bermuda to forget it all. Bill is now back in the Chicago offices of Victor Adding Machines. Hobie Shean, the 'Wbrcester, Mass., department store executive, has made a fine set of informal poses of the class reunion and has promised to keep them for the '46 get-together to show how we have changed, if we do. 
Don McDonald is co-owner and general mana­ger of Flint's largest furniture store. Jack Lanx is stationed in the aviation corps at Scott Field. ni. Congratulations to Jim Keating, of South Bend, who was recently appointed assistant Fed­eral district attorney for the northern Indiana federal court. The three Chicago Black Horse troopers. Jim Doyle, Jim Rich and Bob Pender­ffast, spent a quiet week at the Pendergast home in Galesburg where they rested and golfed pre­paratory to a big social season in the Windy city or a sojourn in the U.S.A. cavalrj-. A daugh­ter, Margaret Marie, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Larry Mallins of Gaines\*ine, Fla. in August. Frands O'Brien has built up a fine law prac­tice in Mansfield. 0., and was married in 1939. Miss Ethel Daniels was married to Rolland J. Ponlin at St. Joseph's church. South Bend, on July 12. The Bob Xeydons are settled on Detroit's east side. Bob Marshall is super\'ising engineer for the Indiana State Highway Commission. The Areola (HI.) Homecoming was a tremendous suc­cess this year due to the untiring work of its chairman, Tom Monahan. 
Leon Rcyniers is general manager of a tool and die plant on Chicago's north side. The New York section of our class is holding a get-together at the Friday night rally preceding the Army game. Bob Massey, Ed Cunningham, Dick Lacy, Al Tonhy and Ed Mahon are the committee in charge and promise a great evening. Speaking of the Army game, Ben Oakes is in charge of a swell trip from Chicago to New York via TWA for the "Week-end. He plans an all-expense tour that is a knockout. The Frank Leahys are now settled in South Bend and are living at 2415 Miami St. 
Dr. Jim Bircini is coroner of his county and resides in Sharpsville, Pa. Harry Kennedy is back again in the states after a three-year sojourn in Buenos Aires. Ed Murray, after a great summer on the fairways, where he subdued most of his campus rivals, is now in the midst of a busy season in the comptroller's office at the Univer­sity, Ed, as you know, is the supervisor of stu­dent employment. Deon Sutton, Ann Arbor law­yer. Bob Bsikernlle, Joliet mill supervisor, and Gcorvc CoBtello, Chicago accountant, were South Bend visitors this summer. 
Sympathy of the class is extended to Jerry Crawley* upon the death of his son; Anstin Boyle, upon the death of his father, and Lient. Jade SUvely, upon the death of his father. 
Tom Gfrfden sends us this letter from Pearl Harbor, T. H., dated July 3, and written on 
U.S.S. Phoenix stationery: "My ship is leaving Hawaii tonight for the states. "While in Honolulu I met TOM P. Q«tnn, ex. '31, who is a deputy fire marshal for the Territory of Hawaii. He has a lovely wife and three beautiful children. 
*ViII P. Motfs, ex. '32, my roommate while at school, is in Hilo on the island of Hawaii, but I was nnable to get leave so didn't see him. Bill is 
also married and has two children. He is in pro­bation work there." 
 Myron E. Crawford, S718 Fnudc­1932 Dr. 
lin Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 

IVpesetter Iffoe having claimed that a combina­tion of circumstances forced his resignation as secretary of the class of '32, the populace con­cerned were practically unanimous in shouting for Blike Crawford as his successor. And so^ with a bow of thanks to Igoe, we give you — you'd never guess! — Crawford: 
There's nothing like perseverance. In early May, 1931, after a hard-working Leftist party went down to defeat in a vote-gathering skirmish with the Giorsio-Connelly-Kramer-HcCartby, etc machine, I resolved that some time of mine would be spent in an attempt to undermine that machine. It was my plan to flood these men with work, preventing their application to class affairs. T\vo years ago I retained Herb Giorgio as my New York counsellor, and within the last month have engaged Jim Igoe to handle the printing of all my statements that go to Illinois — now they are too busy to handle this job. Because I had ONCE made a deadline for Dooley, the job was mine, and therein lies the story of my success. 
Of course I had no idea that this job would fall 
to me in the year of our tenth reunion, to be held 
in conjunction with the school Centennial, but 
after all my undermining tactics, and in behalf 
of that do^vn-but-never-out Leftist party, I accept 
the honor and pledge to have my copy in on time, 
double-spaced, newsy, and not too lengthy. 
Now, you members of that Leftist party who 
have found it difficult or impossible to have your 
copy printed by our worthy opponents, Giorsio 
and Igoe, flood me with your news and rumors 
— I promise to give voice to you all. 
To get myself off on the right foot, I ask for letters from my fellow officers — Gene Conndly, Flo McCarthy, Tom Boms, and OUie Powers. For­get your animosity, boys, and delete the congratu­latory phrases (tho* I know I deser^'e tfaem). Let me know what's what and inform me .of any plans or Ideas you may have made for reunion 
— that is, before I came into power! We have to have a chairman, preferably someone at or close to school; we'll have to have a program, and we'll need a pitcher and nine fast outfielders willing to work in short shifts. Necessary also will be a good-sized, strategically located committee to talk up our we^-end and to arrange trips firom key cities. A special committee should be 9.p­painted and charged with the doty of having present the one and only Johnny Pcrone. 
There's a skeleton of the job that confronts YOU, my classmates and i>oliticaI opponents. Ina-dentally, a feature of our reunion will be the elec­tion of a permanent class secretary, or should I say just secretary? 
Of course I have no news other than of Cleve­land, but that gives notice of Jade CdUns' recent release from Uncle Sam, for whom he toiled six months at Fort Enox, and under whom be rose to the ranks of corporal. It was an honorable discharge (years over 28) and grxmted just prior to the completion of arrangements for the in­duction of Clyde McCoy and his "Sugar Blues." Howard SfiOer Is waiting for his release. Hash B«n has been granted his private pilot's lieotse, and is at present busy with plans for another big Cleveland Club football rally. In bdialf of the class, I extend to Hugh our condolences upon the death of his father. John Kiener has a local defense position as coK)rdinator of amateur radio stations in event of future attack, and is patimt­ly awuting the same type of event, the foretdling of which resulted in Igoe's being ducked in a pool last year. I just won't talk. 
To conduct this column successfully it will be necessary for you gentlemen to send me from time to time information regarding your whereabouts, your doings, and your meetings with '32 friends. To stimulate a flood of mail, I hereby solemnly promise that I will declare ineligible for the of­fice of class secretary any '32er who writes to me at least one letter before April 15, 1942. There you are, my laddie bucks, either you write to me or your name automatically enters the list of these seeking the office of class secretary. If this be blackmail, make the most of it. 
And — as Igoe would say, "put away a dime a day, and be with ns in *42." 
Tiglie Woods wrote early in the summer: "On July 3. Rev. John Wilson, C.S.C., did his first baptism on my daughter, Frances Hope. Pan! OTooIe acted as godfather by proxy and Harriet Wilson OTooIe, St. Mary's '33, acted as god­mother by proxy, — a complete Notre Dame-St. Mary's job." l^ghe Is in general real estate sales and management in Chicago. He Is married and has three children. And, if you don't know it by now, Ughe is the new '33 class secretary. 
Gerry Conway, one of the numerous draftees, sends this letter: "I just finished a stretch in the hospital for athlete's foot, and I had Lt. Fortnnata from Newark or Jersey City. He was in Lyons Hall in '32: and Is first lieutenant in charge of the dermatology ward here, 
"Saw Joe McKeon for a few minutes in Shreve­port. He, with his wife and baby, drove me around the city. Joe has just moved into a new home, and is doing well at Lee Dry Goods Co. 
"Charlie Crockett, of Alexandria, was out to see me, and had me over to the house. He is working for the Guaranty Trust Co." Thanks, Jerry. We have your new address: Security De­tachment, Co. F.. 164th Inf., Camp Claiborne, Id. 
Cliff HyUnd, of Rockford, 111., and the Willis Hubbard and Clifford Hyland, Architects, sends in this news: "The Internal Revenue department here in Rockford is well-manned with three Notre Damers — (Red) Harold J. O'Connor, Jade Hitdicm, '38, and Al Monti, '30. 
''Charley Vaoghan, ex. '33, just took over a few days ago as U.S.O. director here. He's still well 'mthin the draft age, but the two junior Vaughans keep him in civilian clothes. 
"Alderman Bob Joyce, ex. '34, wasn't too happy about our election of a Republican gover­nor in Illinois, but he still wields a heavy stick in the city council. 
•Tony Crowley, *35, is on the trail of black gold in the Illinois oil fields at Salem and is doing o.k. for himself as vice-president and man­ager of the Illinois branch of his company. HICOT manu&ctnre something-or-other in the line of tanks, but I can't remember the company's name." 
Clay Adams is now manager of the western division of Pathe News, in Culver City, Calif. 
1933 
Tiche Woods, 7944 Ellu ATC^ CUcac*. ID. 
Tidw Woods, the noted, takes over at this point for the gentlemen of '33: 
Hy first bow as a class secretary will have to be an inauspicious one. Having been appointed only a couple of weeks ago, I haven't had much 
' time to develop my nose for news, but if you fellows who receive letters from me the next month will cooperate, I'll promise a whole column for next issue. 
Iliere are some of our class whom the Alumni Office has lost in the shuffle. If any one can throw any light on the whereabouts of the follow­ing, we'd appreciate hearing from yon: John Baiturtte, Psol Blmdin, Gcorce W. Biyan, Bdlia Bandi. WiUaB L. Dacrow, JoMph F. 
DcmpMT. Merrill R. Ellis. Jack (Rusty) Finneran. John F. Gill, Georxe J. Gm. Leo Hodel was amons the missinsr but he has been found* quietly browsinsT among his books at 2354 E. 70th St., in Chicago. Leo even tips his hat to cab drivers these days. Wonderful institution, — marriage 1 
Also missing: Nordy Hoffman (West coast papers, please copy!). Jim Krans, Bob Lewis. Jack (H.) Lynch, Patrick B. McCaffary, Joseph 
P. McCarthy, John B. Nichols. Owen O'Neill. Willard Pollard, Robb Parcel]. John Rnberto, Dr. Jerome Sardyk. David Troy, and Wilbert Wyne, You will help the Alumni Oitice and your secre­tary if you can give us any detail on the where­abouts of any of these. 
I have always felt that this column should do something besides tell who has been elected to a vice-presidency in his old man's vinegar works. Now that I have the chance, I'll volunteer to be of service to my fellow classmates. For example. if you are going to Florida this winter, write and let me know so that I can make out an itin­erary for you so that you won't have to buy one meal between home and Key West. For a little consideration on the side, I will even throw in the names and addresses of a few "fresh ones" that wouldn't even hear of you stopping at a hotel for the night. 
It is going to take me a little time to connect up some of the names on the list with some of the gangs I remember, especially when they throw in some of those middle handles like Aloysius, Marcus and Pasquale that were kept successfully buried until graduation day, but as fast as the incidents come back to memory I'll pass them on to you. And if you in turn will pass on any bit of news you hear, I will be deeply grateful. 
By the way, what's your priority number? 
Laurence Richard Smith was recently married to Miss Amelia lacovetti. 
Richard S. Smith. '37, of Los Angeles, writes: **I recently drove up to Toronto, Can., to be with my brother. Lionel V. O. Smith., for a few days before he joined the R.C.A.F. as an observer bomber pilot. He is still in Canada training and hoping that it won't 'all be over' before he gets a chance at it." 
John Logan. Fort Wayne, Ind., is now grand knight of the K. of C. Bob O'Brien, also of Fort Wayne and deputy grand knight of K. of C, will be married this month to Miss Mary Mar­garet Hueber. 
1934 
Robert M. Cahill, Athletic Assodatioa Notre Dame. Ind. 
From Bob CahiU: 
Things have me pretty pushed for time so I'm asking several of you to help me out on this issue. However, here are a few items I have scrambled together- Jack Hayes, of Mt. Vernon, 
N. Y., and his wife dropped in to see me on July 25> Jack has 3 children and is with the . Addressograph Co. in New York CHty. He told me that Al Pavella is with the Abbott Labora­tories, Conn. He was married about a year ago and has just bought a new home. 
Paul LaFramboise, his wife, and his father and mother dropped in at the campus Aug. 26. Paul is with the Quebec Power Co. in Quebec. He has a very charming French wife, and he told me that at the time they were married she could si>eak no English. At first I thought that that was the answer to LaFramboise getting such a charming person, but she told me that at the time they were married she could understand English although she couldn't speak it I Paul is apparently doing very well and put in his bid to have the ten-year reunion in Quebec We now have offers from Chuck Litty in Buenos Aires and Paul in Quebec Do I hear anything from Paris? 
I will now return to my ticket counting and let Vincent J. Rcishman's letter entertun you for a few inches of column. 
"First of all. the oil and gas business has been taking all of my time; then I had an acti* dent which necessitated about 20 stitches being taken in my hand, then my boy arrived, and while Dorothy was still in the hospital — (1) rain leaked on the wall paper. (2) I forgot to tell the milkman to desist, and (3) the newspapers piled up on the irorch and the grass went to seed. In the midst of this upheaval I had to be out of town for a few days, and when I finally got back to the office I found that you had delegated me to assist you by writing your column because YOTJ are too busy. Is it any wonder I've lost wdght and hair the past few days? 
"Naturally, the outstanding fact I have to re­port is the birth of John Vincent H on Aug. 31, both the youngster and his mother are doing fine. Really Bob, I don't have any knowledge of what anyone in the class is doing. BiU Kenny vety obligingly offered this bit of information, and I auote, 'Nothin' never hapi)ens to me.* I do know that my ex-roomie, George Shields, got married and that you were made assistant manager of athletics, but if that's news, so are last month's war communiques. 
"I'll see you this fall, at least at the Southern Cal game when we run our special from Charles­ton. Maybe I'll be out before that." 
Thanks. Vince, that helps and we'll be looking for you. And, now I'll give you some of BiU O'Brien's very welcome letter from Bridgeport. Conn. 
"We pappys are busy guys — my Billy and Patricia take up nearly all my spare time, so I haven't much news, but I'll give you what I have. Jack Hatcen of Youngstown colled me up. He's selling for Stainless Steel Corp. out of the N. Y. office. He's doing right well for himself, but he's the same Jack. He plans to marry soon, he says. 
"Our local N.D. club has acquired about 15 new members lately through Mid-Westerners com­ing here to work. We ran an outing a couple of months ago which had a tremendous social suc­cess^ Greg Rice came up from N, Y.; he's a reg­ular ball of fire. 
"Bob Devine of Norwalk is now up at Camp I>evens, Mass. He had been doing well as a lawyer until Uncle Sam called for him. Frank Booney. '31, is also an army man, after being a mainstay in G.E. for years. ^ 
"Ed Monahan has just left John Galla in the Bpt. Bd. of Welfare and has gone to Norwich as a State Service Welfare worker. Galla keeps the local situation well in hand and is one of our most active alumni. 
"Frank McGec, '33, is in N. Y. working as a Fed. Bank Examiner and is the proud father of a year-old daughter. Joe Regan, Washington. D.C., also has a fine year-old daughter. Ebser 'Harky' Harkabns, '33. has a four-months-old son. Jim Cole has 3 children now and is doing well in Washington." 
Paul Maholchic, formerly of New York City, is a resrional director of the National Catholic Coin­munity Service. He has been assigned to the Southeastern area, including the Cbrolinas. Geor­gia, and Florida. 
Tom Dalton is now assistant trust officer in the Lafayette National Bank of Brooklyn, N. T. 
James F. Conway, Jr., is candidate for election to the Board of Education of Cincinnati. Jim re­signed as assistant city prosecutor to go into private practice last January. 
Joe Voegele was named athletic coach of Fort Wayne; Ind.. Central Catholic High School re­cently. He succeeds Jolin Levicici, *37, who ftngned last spring to accept a coaching podtioa at IgnatiDS in Cleveland. 
1935 FmUia C HwkKitcr. Mt ATC, St. iMOM. H*. 
From Bed: Hie news is all fragmentary. The important items are births and marriases. It would seem that the class of *35 has confined itself to marry­ing and propagating, both noble enterprises. 
BIB Sdiioder and the Hrs. welcomed a little stranger into their home last April 10. And Art Cennid (our Eorzie) is now a father. Carol Ann was bom in Passavant Hospital, Chicago, June 30. 
Mr. and Hrs. SiSMmd Joira Slaszka announced the birth of their second offspring, Hary Alexan­dria, at Mercy Hospital in Hempstead, N. Y., on Hay 12. Congratulations to all. 
Along in Hay came a letter from Jim BowdrCB. who, among other things, told us of his marriage two years ago to Hary HcAIoon of North And­over, Uass., and Trinity College. 
Phil H:ink joined our ranks June 7, when he married Janet Laurissa Kridel in Our Lady of Sorrows Church, South Orange, N. J. Lake Fnul­cis Kelly walked down the aisle with Hary Alice A'Heam in native Albany, N. Y.. in the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes, July 1. And Jim KcTiDe and laiiabeth Jane Bishop were joined Aug. 30, in New York City. The Revilles live in Apart­ment 726, Arlington "Village. Arlington. Va. Looks like Jim is on that government work. Congratula­tions again! 
We appreciated the kind remarks about the column, Jim Bowdren. Sometimes we wonder if it is worth the time and effort, hut a note like yoxurs perks us up. Jim writes that he has been with Bourjois Parfumerie, Inc. of New York for the past four years. We don't blame you for wondering why you took Phy. Ed., Jim, since you are tied up with perfumes. The entire New England territory keeps Jim on the road most of the time. He makes his home at 111 Whitney Road. Hedford, Mass. 
According to our correspondents, 'Fred Solart'a wife joined the ch<u:ch on Easter Saturday last. Jim and his wife, Mary, are the Godparents. Jim says he seldom sees any of the old crowd, but he did catch Jim Nolan of Philadelphia down at Ses Island. Ga., last summer. Jim was honeymooning in those parts. 
Siff Slasdui sent the program for the third annual spring convention of the Nassau School press Association held at Adelphi College in Garden City, May 7. We noticed among the names one Jordan T. Harcrave of Arthur Kndner, Inc., Advertisers. Sig said that it was our Jordan. He was to have handled the advertising program at one of the sectional meetings, but was vaca­tioning in Florida and could not make it the last moment. 
Sig was listed among the officers as adviser to the president. In a note, our friend said that he also had charge of the sectional meetinga and speakers. 
Prexie Tom Proctor wrote enclosing a clipping about his latest dollar a year achievesnent. He was elected president of the famous Knife and Fork Club of Elkhart. This Proctor boy does get around. 
That's it for the first time this year, sang! New how about all pitching in with a little news to build up this column for the rest of the issues. 
GcraU Hcnir Cewlcs is now Father Benedict, O.C.S.O., in the Trappist Abbey of New Hdlerar. Peosta, lowm. As a freshman at NJ>., he won the gold medal for general excellence. 
Jaha Pettinsill, well known swimming eoadi of the Cristobal, Panama, division of schools, has been named coach and manager of the Canal Zone Aggregation on the tour to be made this year. His handling of touring teams reached a new high, recently, when he sent his small squad to the International Tournament in South Amer­ica. His team of merely five men fought to the final event and emerged only five points away from first place. 
Jolin Norton, still in the insurance business, sends this bit of "Norton" news: "My younger brother, Charies, *39, is now in New York City working' for the American Locomotive Co. Frank. 
•32, is teaching at Niagara University and still single." 
 Moran. CI E. 95th St., Apt. 2, 1936 John 
New Yoric City. 
From John Moran; 
Here's what we have picked up here and there during the late lamented summer. 
Howie Cnsack sent us an announcement of his weddinff to Madeline Blake on June 14. The place was the Lady Chapel of St. Patrick's Cathe­dral, New York City. Best wishes to you and the new Mrs. Cusack, Howie. 
Bui Goldman reported that he had left the ad­vertising business in Pittsburgh to become assist­ant editor of the South Bend "Shopper News." While he was in town. Bud and your secretary hotfooted down to the Hotel New Yorker to see Andy Hafnacel who is now keeping things run­ning smoothly at that hostelry. Andy is in line for congratulations, for he will say "I do" some­time next April. 
Jim Kiiiiy has entered government service and is now in training in Washington, D. C. 
Here's how the national emergency has effected the 1936 gang. This list is as complete as we are able to make it. If you are in Seri'ice and don't see your name here, let us knoxv. If you have been shifted to another outfit in the meantime, drop us a line. 
Jim Sherry was inducted a few days after re­turning from reunion. He is at Camp Davis, N. C. Ralph Cardinal is answering the bugle at Camp Edwards, Mass. At Fort Bragg, N. C. are Joe Prenderrast, Joe Bandarich. and John Desmond.. 
Hike Tadcley is doing the manual of arms at Camp Blanding, Fla. At Camp Forrest, Tulla­hcma, Tenn., the boys are saluting Lieut. Jack Gleaaon, while Alan Donovan is at Camp \Vheeler, Macon, Ga., and Bob McDonongh is at Camp Shelby, Bliss. Fred McNeill is doing his bit at Gamp Robinson, Ark. Joe Schmidt is a corporal at Camp Lee, Va., and Justin O'TooIe is with the 11th Cavalry at Imperial. Calif. John Ryan, who will be remembered for the grand job he did singing at the Class Smoker during reunion, was inducted shortly after he returned home and is now at Camp Callan, Calif. 
In the air department we have Lt. Lou Hans-man in the Army Air Corp at Patterson Field, Fairfield, Ohio; Jim Sidall, who has rejoined the IJ. S. Navy as a pilot, and Jack Britton, who is traininff for his Army \rings at Sclma Field, Ala. 
Reported in ser\'ice, at various times, have been the following who have kept their whereabouts something of a military secret: Ray Kenny, Jack Robinion, Qiris Matthews, Joe Waldron and one or two more. John FljTin is a pilot officer with the R.A.F., and his last address as given to us was "Somewhere in England." 
!nie recent passage of the 2S-year limit for in­ductions will save a goodly number of the breth­ren who have not been called as yet, but mean­time we will appreciate hearing from any of you in the Sendee. 
We note that John Sheehan is with the House­hold Finance Corp. in lUdgewood, L:I., N. Y.. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
and is living at 7112-69 Place. Glendale, Z/X John reports that the Batiow brothers, Jolm and Pete. are with General Electric in Bridgeiwrt. Conn., and that John Whittaker is with the WhitUker Wire Company. 
Jade SceDy is assistant director of personnel at Republic Aviation Corporation. Farmlngdale. 
N. Y., while Paol Doyle reports that he is asso­ciated with Union Carbon & Oirbide in the biff city. Bin GiUespie is wth the Port of New York Authority. 
Hint pretty much winds up the doings for this month. Keep ns in mind occasionally with a bit of information about yourself. We need your letters to fill this column: so let us hear about yourself, about your job, your youngsters, and the classmates you meet. 
 Foley, 910 Hawtkonie RoadU 1937 Panl 
Grosse Pointe, Midi. 
Joe Macintosh* formerly with the Texas Com­pany, is now at the duPont Dye works in Wil­mington, Del. 
Joe Ahlering received his M.D. last June at St. Louis TJ., and is now at Fresno County Gen­eral Hospital, Fresno, Calif. 
Lloyd StoUch is still associated with his brother in the produce shipping business, acting' in the capacity of field roan for the Stolich Packing Co., Salinas, Calif. 
Georee Gorman, of Miami, Fla.. is now on active duty with the U. S. Army Air Corps at Lawson Held, Fort Benning, Ga. 
Tom Prendeirast, who is working in Father Flanigan's Boys Home, Boys Town, Neb., writes: ''Charlie Meyer received a degree of Juris Doctor from Northwestern University in June, '40; he 

•has passed the Illinois Bar exam, and is now working in Chicago assisting in the compilation of a legal textbook. 
"Bob Weaver, '38, is practicing in his home town of Coshocton. Ohio, and was married to a former St. Mary's girl in June. Charlie Meyer was one of his attendants. 
"Bob Waldeck has moved from his home in Lakewood. Ohio, and now lives in Alhambra, Calif. No report on his fiscal operations, but they must be lucrative, as he travelled from Los An­geles to Lakewood via Luxury liner, plane, Pan­ama Canal, West Indies, etc., last year. 
"Joe Repine, '34, is a case worker on the staff of the Intake Department of the Juvenile Deten­tion Home in Chicago, after much experience with the Chicago Relief Administration, and the Illinois Department of Old Age Assistance. JIM (Harold) Wilson is also working at the Intake Department, having acquired an HJV. in social work at the University of Chicago last year. 
"Nidc Satton, graduate school in '37, is chief probation officer in Dubuque, Iowa, and still enjoys single bliss. Dick Delaney, '37, was mar­ried to an Indianapolis g^irl in August, 1940, and is now working as an engineer in his father's cookie factory in Burlington, Iowa." 
C Glynn Fraser has bees appointed director of the New England Regional office of the U.S.O., in Boston. Before this appointment, he was execu­tive assistant of the Boston Council of Boy Scouts and formerly program director o£ the Burroughs Newsboys Foundation of Boston, and the Boston director of the National Youth Ad­ministration. 
Don Sconfietti, of Rochester, N. Y., sends na this information: "George McDermott just landed a new job with Hickok as salesman for the state o£ New Jersey. John Odenbai^ is doiogr well. He's a family man with one child. Received a note from Joe English; he is now studying at Mary* knoll for the priesthood. Jerry FarrdI had on a 
soldier's uniform. I ran into Dr. Leo Hofsdineider, *36, at a dance; he's looking great." 
Fred Mott was awarded his M.D. at the Uni­versity of Buffalo in June. 
Harold A. Williams, 308 East Lake 1938 Ave., Baltimore, Md. 
f^ m H«I Winiuns: 
Well, here we are back at the same old stand startine our fourth year. The boys must have been busy this summer on national defense jobs for there isn't much news to pass alons. Here's what we have: 
This from Ed Grotan (16205 89th ave, Jamaica. L.r.. N.Y.) and Chnck Daly (116-06 227th st, St Albans. L.I.. N.Y.): "Chuck and I are having a solitary sst-together in my apartment while my wife slumbers. I was married on Nov. 30, 1340. We have been perusine the June. "Alumnus" and decided to drop you a line. Readins so many names has awakened many fond memories. Al­though we are not officially designated as '38 we feel that we belong there. . . . 
"Leon Lancaster is in the anti-tank division at Fort McCIellan. He was drafted and his brother. Arthar MO. volunteered. Bob Derensoskl is at Wilmington, Del. Joe Nigro is out in Ciolorado. Fcnton Mee visited us about a month ago. He is in the U.S. Marines parachute battalion at Lake­hurst, N. J. Art Selna is somewhere in the wilds of Arizona. Jack Deane is in the F.B.I. Johnny O'Connor and Johnny Witaon are also said to be in the F.BJ. It's hard to split that combination. Jadt O'Leary is married. Of course, we should mention ourselves so with all kinds of apologies: Chuck is working with a New York law firm, and I have a swell wife. ... " 
Thanks to Chuck and Ed for taking time out to dxop a few words. 
Ed Cronin wrote this letter on June 2 and it arrived a day too late for the June "Alumnus," so here it is now: "Not a little has happened since that June Sunday three years ago. For one year I did all sorts of odd jobs, then I taught summer school (English, of course), got a Master's degree in English at the University of Chicago last Aug., and am now head instructor of the English de­partment at Bryant and Stratton College, Chicago. I am to be married on Aug. 16 and then begin working for the Ph.D. next year at the University of Chicago. The Army doesn't want me. 
"I went to school last year with Carl Jansky, and also saw Bob HaDcn on the Midway. I've also seen John Boarke and, occasionally, Ed Mann and Ed Brcnnan. Perhaps you could pass the word along to Dick Scannell. Tom Malligan and Jack Dean that I'd like to bear from them some time." 
Ed's address is, or was, 7823 East End' Ave., Chicaga llianks, Ed, for tbe letter and by all means congratulations on the marriage. You for­got to tell us what the girl's name was, though. 
This,' on very patriotic looking stationery, from that old MnscoWte; Pvt. Ross Fitzgerald: "It's be­ginning to look like an N.D. clambake in the 
U. S. Army. Now if Don Hickey and his ham­burger stand could be drafted we could take a finer stand with the mess sergeants. X am sta­tioned at Camp Wheeler, Ga„ but this week we are moving to Camp Blanding, Fla. (43rd Divi­sion). Don't feel too bad if you're drafted. If s better than things in Moscow when they caught me toasting the Czar. . . ." 
Nick Lamberto. the Westbrook Pegler of the Sioux City "Tribune," early this summer wrote that he had a wedding announcement from Phil Kiixb. and that Jonnie Beer is. or was. now at Camp Forrest; Tenn. 
My old roommate. Bad Sherwood, wrote that Paal Sciiaab is now in the Army and is sta­tioned at Fort Benjamin Harrison, near Indian­apoUs. He also said that Iraii IvanceTic (now known as Vance) was in Tarrytown* N'. Y., about Auff. 1. Ivan is still livins in his hometown of Midland, Pa., and happily married. 

On Sept, 2, I received word that John Clemxy was to be married to Hary Josephine Oonan on Sept. 13 at Taunton, Mass. Jack, as far as I know, is still in the Army. 
Robert **Hser" HcGrath was married to Anna­
belle Charters on June 4 in the chapel at N.D. 
I spent one week of my vacation in the Mid-
West during the first week of July. Stopped in 
Goshen, Ind., for a night and saw Tom Hntdiin­
win» his wife and baby. Yesterday Joe Semczsrszyn 
'39, stopped up to the office to see me. Joe is in 
town lookinfT for a job. On my way back to Balti­
more from Chicngo this summer, I humped into 
Lake Tieman and Jack Horiey, '35, sitting in 
the diner of the Capitol Limited. We spent the 
evenins: relighting the Ohio State-N.D. game. 
Luke said that he was getting married this sum­
mer. Roger SnlUvan is now working for the Mari­
time Commission in Washington. 
Rog is living at 733 24th st , Arlington, Va. Jim McNeils was in town recently. Bob WUke is living in Baltimore. According to the news­papers he is now quite a golfer. And that's about all the news. 
Pierre de Is Vergne was graduated from Tu­lane Law School and passed the bar in Loiii­siana. 
Tom Shells is with the advertising department of the New York "Journal-American." 
Chack Sweeney, of South Bend, was named by Commissioner Elmer Layden to serve as field judge in the National Football league games for the current season. 
Dan Ryan is working on the Rushville (Ind.) "Republican." 
John Berteling was, in his class, the first winner of the William S. Knudsen award, hav­ing qualified at the Grosse He training school. 
George SolUvan completed his advanced train­ing at Fensacola, Fla., in June. He was commis­sioned with the rank of Ensigii, U.S.N.R., and was assigned to the U.S. Naval Air Station, Pen­sccola. 
Jt^in R. Tobin, Jr., now a senior at Rush Med­fcal College, Chicago, has been elected to the Alpha Omega Alpha, the national honorary fra­ternity comprised of medical students of excep­tionally high scholastic standings. John was in the Alumni Office recently. 
1939 
Vincent DeCoursey, 4540 Jarfaoc, Kan­sas Ctty» Mo. 
From Vincc DeCoarsey: 
Another year of toil and trouble and draft boards has passed — so far as this column is concerned — here it is beginning the third year of liberty in this nice, warm, friendly world for the class of '39. 
I'd like to hear from everj'one in the armed forces of this country. Most of those I know are either eating the dust at Fort Riley out in Kan­sas, trying to keep their feet warm ani dry at Fort I^eonard Wood down in Ozarks. or else try­ing to prevent the Blue Army from crossing the Red River. Personally we're carrying a 3A, and glad of it. So far as I know, the draft has blown over all the Kansas City contingent of Notre Dame men. Ben Sheridan makes the "Kansas City Star" every once in a while trying to get games with some college team for his boys at Fort Riley. If anyone is scheduled to pass through this town on his way anywhere, drop a line a couple of days in advance and we'll see what can be done. 
Two letters that came too late in the gptiasc to be included in last year's news, a birth an­nouncement, one letter, a few whisperings, and that is about the story. Before we forget it, we have a new address, a palatial mansion of some 35 rooms (of which we have four) at 4S40 Jarboe, Kansas City, Mo. Don't forget the address. Please. please, don't use that old address in the student directory. The family gets tired of forwarding mail. 
We had a very successful and enjoyable get-together of Notre Dame men at Dae Nicra's farm.- Ziooked to us as though there were about 200 in attendance. Jim Armstrong came down for the affair. 
At this session I saw Frank Tayne for a few minutes; he's back in town after a training per­iod at Remington Arms somewhere in Connecticut. Tom Reardon is still in the insurance business; At Nigro, about to shove ofiE for med school. Fm still trying to peddle ice cream to the people. 
Just after sending in the last batch of copy for the "Alumnus," came two very nice letters. One was from John C. Starkie, late of Tc^Kka, Kans. He came through Kansas City, called, but I was out. So he sat down that ni^ t and wrote 
— and I wish that he'd write again soon so we'd know where and how he is. Said John: "As you know, I, along with a number of other NJD. boys, have been at the Harvard School of Bu^ess, and in about two weeks I will be the proud possessor of an M.B.A. with which to ornament the space behind my name. I had a nice job open at the Puritan Ck)mpressed Gas Co. in Kansas (Hty on the basis that I wouldn't be drafted. However, with the large number of fellows being deferred. I appear to be on the list for November. I have applied for and received an oiKuing in an officers' training school for the Air Corps, leading to a commission in the Engineering Corps. This class starts on the sixth of October. 
"Bob Dieckleraan, Ed Carroll, Frank Clarke and I have been at Harvard together. Bob is now with his father's firm in Bfilwaukee and safe from the draft. Ed Carroll has received an occu­pational deferment for work with the coal subsid­iary of U. S. Steel. He also has one of the best jobs obtained by anyone at the bu^ness sdiooL Frank Clarke was being drafted and the last I heard he was flirting with the idea of joining an ofTicers' course in the Navy." [Ed's, note: Starfcie had one job in South Bend this summer, was about to leave it to take another one with Bendix, then disappeared from the Alumni Office vision. Where is he?] 
A few days after John's note, another — this time from Larrr Barrett, another convert to the defense of America. Larry wrote a very interest­ing letter, to quote: 
"I have been pretty busy learning to fly in Uncle Sam's Air Corps. I get quite a luck out of your column in the 'Alumnus' (unsolicited). I suppose I should he sending this to Boh Sanford, the secretary for the class of *40, seeing as how I got my degree in '40, but I spent my first four years with the '39ers and so seem more at home with them. 
"I am now In the last part of my advance training, learning to fly muIti>motored bombing planes at Brooksdale, La., having finished my primary training at Parks Air College in East St. Louis and Basic at Randolph Held. We are due for our wings and commissions about the 11th of July and I plan on marrying immediately after. I don't know if you met her or not; she was at both the Junior Prom and Senior Ball. Name is Frances Mulligan, and she's from De­troit." [Belated congratulations]. 
So I suppose that by this time Lt. and Mrs. Lawrence Barrett are settled down and itching to write with news of the Army. This is to let them know that I am ready for it. 
Dnxing the smDmar, I had several niee letters from IMck Amtmt, and just in the past few days a note that he voold be in to see ns shcTtly. Wa are looidng forward anxiously to that visit. 
Another vintmr who will be welcomed with epen arms the day be gets here is star eorremondait and able student of Education 314 (which decoded means "A History of Physical Edneation"), Jiat 
' Taaaey. A nice newify little note of some foor cloedy written pages dropped in with the help of two postmen yesterday. Got the right address, Jim? 
"Just figured yon might be hard up for a Uttlr news (Haw!) Perhaps all the stuff will be second­hand by the time it reaches, you — oar adc^ted son Dave Heskill — seems to have a bit of the literary genius in him and is doing a pretty good job reporting the news from this neck of the woods — but here goes. 
"Went down to the Bridgqwrt alumni gather­ing a few weeks back, and it sure was a saght to see Greg Rice and Frank Tayne attempting to devour the very delidous morsels of steamed ciums. Dkfc Scaandl was also present but was to be inducted into the forces of old Uncle Samnd a few days later. Jalie TmsBcIre came up front New York for the occasion and reports that he's doing ri^t well with the Eberfaard-Faber Tlendl Co. in the big town. Julie's IB in this regimen­tation setp-up. TOM Sdiadtz, MO. who is living with Dave in Bridgeport, jreported that be ex­
. pected to be 'in* before the month is over. There's a surprising ntmiber of out-of-town NJD. lads now in Bridgeport, and it seems that mutual ' friend Mesldll has taken th«n all under his wing. Larry SchsUd, Dick Loler, Dick SoUth and many others I can't think of now are really benefitting by his parental influence. 
**J«kn Toaaey is w in Hartford worldng for I3J C Paal McCanaack is up there also. Paal Ladher is returning to Cheshire Acadony very shortly to resume his teaching duties. During the summer he was a camp counsellor up in Massa­chusetts. BOAey McFariaad is still here in New Haven and I hear that Herat Raaihcrg. another *EIm City* product, is now. in New York, work­ing for Marlin's Fire Arms Co. 
"Brather Phillip, formerly of N.D.. and now St. John's Prep up in Danvers, Mass.. was a welcome visitor to the Tansey clan one evening, 
"I had a peculiar experience a few days ago when a N. Y. car cut in front of me and blocked my path — who jami>ed out In soldier uniform but Johnny CeQaZ — he saw the NJ). marker plate — took a chance — and stopped. He volun­teered and is in for a few years. Reports that it's not half-bad as he's In the finance department. ToBi Walker is also in the Army, stationed at Camp Dix in New York. ­
"Incidentally, Bill CosteUo is working for do-Pont and residing In Bridgeport — the happy father of a charming six-month-old girl. Bill always was attracted by the other speciel To top it off. she's red-headed. I walked down the street with him one ni^ t and It's safe to predict a suc­cessful political future for him in Bridgeport, as I judge he must know at least three-quarters of the population by now. 
"F^m Dick CHclia's Connecticut gal friend, I hear he's all set down at Pensacola. l^ven't heard from any of the O'Melias in so long Pve just about ^ven up hope. 
"As for me. I have a new job and a pip. I'm field representative for the K. of G. Boy Life Bureau and will be travelling about the country for them. Just a warning to you lads to keep an extra dinner ready." 
And that was all that Tansey had to say. About two or three of those a month and i>ez^ haps we'll know something about this class. Be­fore we close though, a birth announc^nent re­
layed from California — August 31, St. Joseph Hospital, Joliet. HI., Sarah Frances Gaglione. And more power to Frank. 
Sweener Tack is employed at the Northrup Aircraft Factory in California. 
Thomas P. O'Neill, M.A, '39, will teach politi­cal science this fall at Aquinas College Grand Kapids, Mich. 
Joe Harrineton is now stationed at the port of Balboa. Panama, where he boards ships about to enter the Canal. He's a U.S. Customs man. 
Jim Green, in the rirst Weather Squadron, Air Corps, McClellan Field, Calif., writes: "Last month I had the opportunity of attending the summer course in boys training given by the Knights of Columbus at Santa Clara University. The school, which lasted a week, has a traveling faculty headed by John J. Contway, *26. The other instructors are also Kotre Dame men: Ed AL O'Connor, *33, William G. Lang, '29, and Frank 
J. Carr, '30. They mentioned ha\-ing met the Tierans and Hallorans, both '2ders in Los An­geles before coming north; Frank Olsen, '27, and Charles Vanoncini, '28. Jerome Higgins, '34, the state probation officer in Sacramento, also dropped in for a day. Of course we also met Buck Shaw, heed coach of the Santa Clara's football team." 
Bill Whelehan is in the army now! But where. Bill ? Lt. Joseph B. Moorman, Jr., is an officer in the Army Air Corps. He will join the 118th Obser\*ation Squadron, Jacksonville, Fla. Robert Mcpherson has been drafted and very appropri­ately, is at Camp McPherson, Atlanta, Ga. 
John T. Doyle received his M. S., and is now working at the General Development Lab. of the 
U. S. Rubber Co., in Passaic, N. J. 
1940 
Robert G. Sanford, 3934 K. Alaryland Ave.^ Milwaukee, Wis. 
From Bob Sanford: 
Greetings men of '40 and "men of Uncle Sam !*' I apologize for not ans^vering any letters this summer, and I promise to do much better this year. 
Phil Sandmaier wrote a card saying that he tvas inducted (\*ia draft) June 26 and is sta­tioned at Fort Benjamin Harrison, Indianapolis, as a member of the permanent personnel. He steers new selectees through the reception center. His address there is Co. C, 1st Receiving Bn., Reception Center. BKke Crowe, '38, is there, too, working in the office. 
Last June Frank Pieri wrote a letter and it hasn't received any recognition as yet. Here's Frank in part: "I just completed a very fine week-end in Atlantic City. .. . I met two other '40 grads. First was Joe Molqueen, of the U. S. Marines. He introduced me to Mrs. Joe Mulqueen and she is a very good-looking Irish lassie, for­merly Miss Peg^e Ruddy from Philadelphia. Later I met Pat Gorman who is working for the government. I am an employee of the B. F. Goodrich Co.. working in the budget department, but it won't be for long, because I have already had my physical exam for the draft. My friend, John Joyce, was inducted a few months ago. He's an acting corjKiral and says, 'Gee the food at 
N. D. was good.'" Frank's address is 30 W. South St., Mahanoy CHty, P!a. 
The only NJD. man that dropped into l^Iilwau­kee during the summer was Harry Alartxn, an ex. '40 man from Rhinelander, Wis. We talked about old times and would certainly like to hear from or about Jade Cook, Phil Dougherty, Wayne Pencil. Jim Brown, Ed McLaughlin, Ted Jochems, and Bemie Hasterson. 
Dick Ames wrote the second letter of the sum­mer months. Tt came from Beaver, Pa., but by 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
now he is working for Uncle Sam. He's In the 
Army Air Corps, Jefferson Barracks, Mo. Dick 
says: "In Goshen, Ind., I saw Bad Kerr and he 
is about the same except for a little weight added 
to his husky frame. A friend told me that Tom 
Judge is back on the road again in Texas for the 

Pope Glasser China Co. Since graduation I have 
been seismographing for the Texas Company." 
Glad to hear from you, Dick. 

It seems I made a slight error a short while ago. John Webster is not in the Army; he is still working in Milwaukee and now has what he calls a "car?" Ncal Gleason is working at Allis-Chalmers and also going to Marquette Law School. Ted Brash received a promotion at "A-C" and will soon be on the top. Dan Hushek is in Missouri in the Army and is expecting a promo­tion soon. 
Jim Casper has announced his engagement to Eileen McGee, of Milwaukee. I'm sure many of you fellows remember her, and are pleased at Jim's good fortune. Congratulations, Jim and Eileen. 
As for myself, I just received a 1-B classifica­tion because of my eyes. I can now continue my public accounting and hope some day to become a C.P.A. 
This column is a little short this time, fellows. Let's really get to work wth all those letters. We are way behind the other classes. I really would like to \vrite a couple of issues and not have to beg for news. 
Jf^n and Tom Femeding ^vere commissioned as Ensigns in the U. S. Naval Reserve in Septem­ber, and are expecting a call to active duty aboard one of Uncle Sam's men-o-war. 
Walter Sweitzer* Jr., of South Bend, enlisted recently, and is at Scott field, Belleville, HI,, where he will take a course of training for com­munications officer in the Air Corps. 
Bill Hclncmy has entered law practice in the office of Aaron H. Hngnenard, Associate Build­ing. South Bend. Bulletin: For a year, by re­cent appointment, Biil will be law clerk to Fed­eral judge Sherman Bu Minton, Chicago. 
Frank Anbrey is an assistant cix-il engineer for 
N. Benvenut & Sons, New London, Conn. 
Jimmy Cnllather, following his year of graduate work at Penn, is working for Dry Dock Asso­ciates, in Philndclphia. 
Leo Bever received the habit of the Dominican Order at Springileld, Ky.. in preparation for the priesthood. 
Don O'Neill, of South Bend, has been assigned to the IVesno, Calif., air base. And Vic Vergara was one of the aviation cadets graduated Sept. 12, from the Bombardier Training School, Barks-dale Held, La. He will receive a commission as a second lieutenant in the Army Air Corps Re­serve. 
Bob Derengoski writes that be was married re­cently. Following his admission to the Bar of Michigan, he was inducted into the Army, and has been stationed at Camp Davis, N. C, since June. He is with the anti-aircraft uni; of the Coast Artillery. He says that Pete Arboit is now playing with the Camp Davis football team. 
Paul Borgman. formerly with Bendix in South Bend, is at present on leave of absence from the Jackson Lab. of the duPont Company. Paul suf' fered painful injuries to his right arm in an 


The Flying Irish Squadron 
Hie Figfatine Irish of Notre Dame iiad beeome the Flyine Irish of the United States Naval Aviation Cadet Corp when this pictnre was taken at tlie Naval Aviation Training base at Glenvicw, IlL, near CliicaEO. All of these men are either cradaates of the University or andereradnates with at least two years to their credit. They comprise the famed Flying Iridi Squadron of the Naval Aviation Cadet corps. Following a month's primary training at Gknview, many of tlie men were transferred in August to one of the "Annapolis of the Air" bases in Oe Soath for advanced flight training preparatory to being commissioned ensigns in the navy and assigned to combat, Iwmbing or other flying units. Within about nine months from the time they went "aboard ship" at Glenview some of them will be wearing Navy Wings. 
Sitting, left to right: K. E. Cox, Syracaae, N. Y.; J. J. Reynolds, Jr., Chicago; C. G. Rodgers. Drexel Hill, Pa.; W. J. Gallagher, Medina, N. T.; Jowph W. LarJdn, Chicago; E. H. Haller, EvansviDe, Ind.; T. P. Carroll, New Rodielle, N. Y.; F. A. Santos, Charleston, S. C, and W. P. Kramer, Ridge-wood, N. J. 
Kneeling, left to right: V. A. Daigler, BaSalo, N. Y.; BL S. Byrnes, HamUton, Ont, Canada; H. 
S. Fahey, Scarsdale, N. Y.; W. E. Oehler, Eden, N. Y.; R. V. Donahae, Kokomo, Ind.; H. W. Borer, LitUe Nedc N. Y.; B. F. Longo, Lakewood. OUa; E. B. Haglies. Chicago, and E. O. Buddy, St Louis, Mo. 
Standing, left to right: J. J. MiUer, Soath Bend, Ind.; T. E. Pilgrim, Hollis, Long Island, N. Y.; 
J. F. ODea, Brooklyn, N. Y.; D. Bagley, Hartford. Cmn.; J. V. Lneas, Chicago; J. H. Wiecfaman, Park HiUs, Ky.; J. B. Tinny, Lakewood, Ohio; O. J. Selfert. New UIM, Minn, and E. J. Mooney, Oarka­dale. Miss. 
antomobile accident, but the injured member is now on the mend. 
Eight South Bend alumni recently passed the o.cmination for admission to the Indiana bar. They are: Bernard Hiss, Jim Gorrell, Harold Blakeman, Dick Kaczmarek, Ed Hinczewki, Bill Mclnemy, Bob Rodibangh, and Joseph Pawl­owski. 
Pete Shechan, of Youngstown, O., writes: "Bob FiA, my ex-roommate in St Ed's, dropped in !ast month while on his honeymoon. He was mar­ried to Miss Jean Kenny of Toledo. Bob will continue his medical studies at Michij^n, where he is an honor student." 
1941 
John W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 Darling­ton Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
From John Patterson: 
Jumping into the select circle of Sanford, De-Coarsey, etc.. is a busman's holiday for me. Be­sides trying to scoop the world on the doings of *41ers, I am one of the Httle cogs on the enor­mous wheel of news that is the "Pittsburgh Press." 
Reports from classmates have been few and far between. The 600-odd students who grabbed di­plomas last June are finding it hard to write letters. 
Most consistent of all my correspondents is roomie Ray Pinelli. Some of the "kids" who hooted him just a bit because he only hit .314 last spring will be glad to hear that he did right well in the Eastern League. Ray played with Binghamton, a Yankee farm club. And, in spite of a dislocated shouFder received in mid-season, he played a lot of baseball, winding up with an imi>ressive record. 
Just before Labor Day who walked into the news room down here? Certainly. Vem Witkow­ski! Using stage name Whit Vernon, N.D.'s A-1 gift to the boards, played summer stock at the Cain Park Theatre in Cleveland. He*s at the Catholic University speech school now on a schol­arship. 

Vem had some news, however indefinite, about some of Notre Dame's other thespians. Jack White is in the Navy; Bill Malvey is working at radio "somewhere;" Johnny Cbppinger was in summer stock with the Penny Players at Madison, Ohio. 
From operator Witkowski came the word that Joe Hullisan has a job which starts at 6 a.m., ends at 3 p.m. Shades of morning check! Frank HcGroder is Army-bound. Bod Pogliano is al­ready marching for Uncle Samuel (he had a fellowship to Catholic U., but—). 
Eddie McHovh, fellow-Pittsburgher, is working for the McGraw Wool Co. in our dark city. Charlie Dillon, class president, is scheduled to leave for Army camp. Charlie was in Pittsburgh for a Notre Dame dance during the summer. He is in tip-top shape. 
Got a card from Joe BacUer. He's stationed in the East — wearing khaki for the U. S. By the way, Joe*s the only one who sent a card un­solicited. More would be appreciated. 
Bill Heimbaogii, is working near Pittsburgh, and drops in once in a while. He says Jim Champley, prize engineer, is doing well. Bill Hawcs is in the traffic department of Carnegie-Illinois here. George O'Connor and Vin Smith are married — have been since before graduation. Undoubtedly there are others. Yes? No? 
Bob ntzpatridc is in the advertising business in New York. I'd like to hear from him. llie Gotham and Chicago boys ought to have a lot of news about *41 graduates. ' 
Emery Martin is working on his father's news­paper (business dept.) in Fond dn Lac, Wis. Tom Pilgram is flying (W*hat of D. G. S«IUTan, flying editor of the "Santa Maria?"). Bob Sanaa, as announced over the radio at the All-Star-Chicago Bears football game, is in the Navy. I haven't heard a word from or about co-"Scho1astic" workers McGowan and Newland. 
Bob Doran* selling hats in Danbury, and George Greene, at Columbia Dental, came through with letters. Jack Keegan is at Rochester in med­icine. Bob had news of Charlie Crimmins who played ball during the summer \nth Watertown, 
N. Y. Charlie was a shortstop, and did well. George Greene spent a little time in Cincinnati this summer visiting "Dunnie of St. Mary's." He saw Bob Leonard, who is working for his father. Bill Hoyne of Bengal Bouts fame is a working man in Dayton. 
Walt Brodbeck does accounting for the auto­motive division at Studebaker's. Ed Holtgrecn and Bill Dominic are cost accountants for the Stnde­baker aviation division. 
George Ferrick is researching or searching for 
U. S. Army Air Corps at Fort Benning, Ga. Gerry Fisher came back to N.D. for I>aw. So did Bill Mooney. Reports have it that Bill's new wife (I quote when I say "new" — never knew he had an old one) is lovely people. 
. Ed Consinean is in the Army at Camp Walters, Texas. John MacCaoIey is bundling for Britain, rallying for Roosevelt with the Student Defenders of Democracy. John is executive secretary. Bill McGannon was on the All-Star squad against the Bears. 
Members of the "Fighting Irish Squadron" in Naval Air Corps: Bob Cox, J. J. Reynolds, Frank Santos, (who, by the way has never returned "Native Son" to me). Matt Byrnes, John O'Dea, Erwin Mooney, and E. O. Baddy. 
Chuck Schmid is a WPA supervisor in the Recreation Dept. of the Hammond Civic Center-Several other Notre Dame men are working with him. WPA! 
Dan Stack will be an instructor for the CJLA. before much more time passes. Tom Pilgrim and Bill Kramer are not with the Air Corps any more. Another marriage — Tom Walsh of Notre Dame and Marge Hall, '41, of St. Mary's. 
Tom Vincent and Jade Nace are working for General Electric in Schenectady. Jerry Ryan, an­other of the Bengaleers, is using his engineering knowledge to advantage in Baltimore. 
Red-haired Art Hnmby sent in a letter on U. 9. Army Air Corps stationery. He joined the day after graduation, has had 135 hours in the ur, pnd expects to get his wings in January. Art has the company of two Notre Dame men. neither of the '41 class. Gene Polctto, '40, and Jim Ford. Bill Spauldinr* according to Art, was slated to enter the air corps during the summer. Art's letter was absolutely voluntary, unsolicited. More of the same would be appreciated. 
' Tom Rets is in Bridgeport with G.E. He sends along information to the Alumni Office that DsTe Meskill, *39, Tom Sdimid, Larry Sdunidt, and Ciene Duckworth are also aiding and abetting G.E.'s staff. Says Joe Lawler is an engineer at Remington. 

Tom saw Jack Boyle, Ralph Gerra, and Bab Jehring during the summer. Boyle is with W. R. Grace & Co., N.Y.C. (Which prompts the question 
— Where is Mike Grace?) Gerra is going to law school at Columbia. He'll have George Greene in sight up there. Jehring is with the F.BX in Washington and going to Georgetown Law. Jim Behe is also in Washington, but with Equitable Life. 
Joe GnOtiMB, BID Day, Bob LawWa. and Htwmid HUles are all draftees. John is at Fort Eustis, Va., but we would like the eomplete ad­dresses of all of them, and of any other of yoo men in Army service. 
John JobiueB is selling group insurance; for Traveler's bisorance Co., Hartford. Conn. Ed Qalmi worked during the summer tutoring at Riverdale Conntry School <^mp. He is in the Marine Corps reserve and expects to go in March. Cy Thuty is back at school to study ciiminology. And Frank Hopkins is a clerk for duPont in Wil­mington, Del. So is Bin KeOcher. 
Mike McCangbey is a junior civil engineer for the Sanitary District of Chicago. I hear that Dan Broderidc is a Naval reserve officer for the duration of the emergency. Roy Bairiey is now m T.VJL man in Kentucky; Ed Tomdk is back at 
N.D. for an M.S. in chenSstry. Lots of initials there. Joe Callahan is, or was, doing clerical work for Todd & Brown at the Kngsbury, Ind., muni­tions plant; while Milt Williams is working at Bendix and Law. 
. Vic Rcback, in Detroit, is an accounts payable clerk for the Temstedt Mfg. Div, of General Motors. Jim Walsb is a cast iron foundry man for Bethlehem SteeL Gene DeLay worked this summer for the Federal Land Bank in St. Phnl. 
Vincent Sposato is a junior clerk for a New York consulting engineer. Clande Sfbmidlf re­turned to Notre Dame for graduate work in chemistry. Cliff Badley, like Joe Bnddey, is in the army now. AI Dd Zoppo expected an early draft call, but hoped to return to N.D. for an 
M.A. Jim Spychabki is an operator for Todd & Brown at the Kingsbury, Ind., ordnance plant. 
Phil McCanna, off for Marquette Med. School, polished up his golf score this summer and forgot about Gr^'s Anatomy. Didc Ball visited Phil and both of them adiieved that golden-brown shade swimming and sailing. Dick will enter In­diana U. this fall to work for an MJL in eco­nomics. I was in Buffalo, Dick's home town, in July, called his home, hut the phone just ranff and rang. 
Paal VigBoa is at Western Reserve Medical school in Cleveland. Paul wrote to say that he misses Notre Dame and everything that goes with the school. 
As Who Of Us Doesn't! 
Eagcne Geisdcr, HJ ^ '41. has been appmnted as assistant executive secretary of the National Catholic Rmral Life conference. 
Fred Short is now an aviation cadet and has . recently been promoted from the Alabama Ibisti­tute of Aeronautics, l^iscaloost, Abu, where he recaved his basic '.raining. 
Bin Gwoua writes us that he is working at the new duPont plant In Martinsville, Va. Be.was helped to his new job by BUI Lawless. *22, du­Pont construction superintendent. 
Bretber Rex, C.S.C^ will soon leave for D«ecs» Bengal, fodia, where he will fill a teaching posi­don in St. Gregory's Bi$^ SchooL He will he in India for 10 years. 
Bill Oe u is with the Neoprene Divisimi of the doPont Dye Works. 
Bob Daley is a flying cadet at GoodfeUow's Field, and Is training now for a commission of second lieutenant in the Army ftvce. 





Collese-trained men and women 
CHEMISTS, ENGINEERS, ECONOMISTS, TECHNOLOGISTS SCIENTIFIC, PROFESSIONAL, ADMINISTRATIVE PERSONNEL 
are needed in the Federal Career Service 
GO^TERNMENT ACTIVITIES ARE EXPANDING. The national emergenq^ is creating new problems, new methods, new jobs. A Government position offers opportunities for personal advancement and effective service to the Nation, particu­larly in professional and scientific work. 
National Defense, Soil Conservation, Reclamation, Flood Control, Public Lands, Public Health, Taxation, Industrial Relations, Labor Relations, Interstate Commerce, Social Security, Research—these are but a few of the current problems with which Government departments and Government personnel are concerned. 
There are positions to be filled at Washington, D. C , and in many of the States. 
Have you seen a list of Federal civil-service examinations now open.' Have you filed an application with the Civil Service Commission at Washington? 
LEARN WHAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS TO OFFER through civil service. Application forms can be obtained from United States civil-service representatives at first- or second-class post offices or from civil-service district offices. 




U. S. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION 
The ALUMNUS, like many other alumni mscazincs, is contributini; Ihis space in interests of national defense. 




