The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

C€MMENT 
ROOSIS FOR S. C. GAJIE. 
The St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club, in co-operation with the Alumni Of­fice, will again keep on file a list of rooms in private homes for alumni and friends who will wish to stay in South Bend one or more nights at the time of the Southern California game on November 21. 
Last year the Club established headquarters in the Oliver Hotel and furnished these rooms in private homes to many guests. There was universal approval of the idea., as South Bend's hotel facilities are too limited and the prices add too ma­terially to the budget for the game. 
The Alumni Office now has a num­ber of such rooms available, and also can make arrangements with a hotel on Lake Michigan, an hour's drive from South Bend, for accommoda­tions, American plan, $6 to $8 single and $10 to $12 double. This is a high class hotel in every respect and of­fers alumni an opportunity to enjoy excellent and scenic quarters without loss of convenience to the game. 
The week-end of the game, through the co-operation of the Athletic As­sociation, the list of rooms will be placed in the down-town ticket office of the .4thletic .Association, in the Oliver Hotel building, for the conven­ience of the visiting alumni and friends.­
Alumni wishing to arrange for ac­commodations in advance can write to the -Alumni Office for further in­formation. 
The above announcement brings up the question of football tickets. Once more, tickets for the Army game are being feverishly and frantically sought, with everything from wives to jobs hanging in the balance. The difficulties in allocating an alumni section are somewhat evident in the contrasting situation prevailing in the demand for Pennsylvania tickets by Notre Dame alumni. Penn's showing this year places it among the major teams of the East. When the oi'ders for tickets in the alumni section were filled for mailing, there were exactly 166 tickets sold in the alumni section, ten days before the game. 
The Alumni Office isn't trying to talk down the alumni, but you can see for yourselves how hard it is to know whether to set aside 150 tickets or 15,000 tickets. When other friends of Notre Dame have their money in by -August 1, and get seats around the goal line in the public sections, it is hard for the Athletic Association to open up a bloc of tickets from the 40-yard to the goal lines in the alumni 

IN TlilX ISSUE 
Notre Dame from the Stadium ; Frontispiece Alumni and Dillon Halls Opened 35 Meetings Mark Memorial Progress 37 Musical Organizations Show Promise 41 New Constitution (Second Reading) 42 Religious Page, by Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '13 44 Editorial 45 Entrance Requirements, by Robert B. Riordan, '24, Registrar 47 Around and -About the Campus, by John Kiener, '32 48 Athletics, by Joseph Petritz, '32 49 Open Letter from "Pat" Manion 52 The Alumni Clubs 55 The Alumni 59 
The magazine is published monthly durinfr the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year: the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annua] alumni dues of 55.00 include n year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the .\ct of ilarch 3, 1S79. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
MEJIBER OF THE AJIERICAN ALUMNI Cou^•CIL 
MEJIBER OP THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALU.MNI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . .ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 


THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME -Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. JOHN A. MACNAJtARA, '97 Honorary President FRANCIS H . HAYES, '14 President CLARENCE M.A.NION, '22 -- Vice-President WALTER DUNXAN, '12 -T - Treasurer JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 ---Secretary 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 -Director 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 -- Director JOHN F . O'CONNELL, '13 Director ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 -- Director 
FRANK E . HERING, '98 • (ex officio) Director 

section for public sale a few days be­fore the game. This is just a little point of common sense reasoning that fairness to the Athletic Association dictates. Tickets sold for the Penn game in the alumni section took up just five rows of seats between the 40 and 50 yard lines. 
If there are any snappier and more musical bands than that of Notre Dame in the collegiate field, why worry? The Editor will back Joe Casasanta's boys against their con­temporaries. 
After fifty-two years of teaching, thirty-six of which were spent at Notre Dame, Brother Cyprian, C.S.C, has retired from active teaching this year. True to his life on the campus. Brother refuses to sanction the pub­licity which could so deservedly accompany this retirement, but in the hearts of the hundreds of alumni he has taught, his career is sufficiently impressed to need no color here. 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS November, Hill 



NEW CAMPUS FROM THE STADIUM 
DiLLo.v (left) A.VD ALUJIXI (right) OPE.V DOOBS New residence halls bring 500 boijs to the real life of the Campus. 
THE NEW FRONTIER 

The Gushing Engineering Hall under construction; the Commerce Building on the extreme right; the Law Building completed; Alumni and Dillon through the trees on the left. 
THE N OTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. X. NOVEMBER, 1931 No. 2 
Alumni and Dillon Halls Opened to Students 
Lead the New South Campus Group; Old Engineering Building Being Demolished; Commerce Building In Use; Engineering Units Being Occupied. 
UEV. PATRICK HAGGERTV, C.S.C. 
Rector of Dillon Hull 

Sky-lines have become the measure of community growth, if we may be­lieve the photographic history of such centers as New York and Chicago before the years 1929-30-31, A. D. 
Notre Dame has taken up where those erstwhile prosperous centej-s surrendered, and the accompanying photographs show the remakable de­velopment of the Greater Notre Dame on the Southern front. 
Persons from South Bend, looking out toward Notre Dame, can see, from West to East; developed during the past six years, the $500,000 dor­mitory group of Lyons, Morrissey and Howard Halls; the 5750,000 Din­ing Halls; the $850,000 new dormi­tories, Dillon and Alumni Halls; the $400,000 Law Building; the $300,000 Engineering Building, and the $750,­000 Stadium. As a setting for a part of this picture, there is the beautiful Universit.v—William J. Burke Golf Course. 
In the background, during tho.'se years, the campus has added to Sci­ence Hall, to the Gymnasium, to the little Seminary, and to Moreau, and invisible on the southern front but prominent in an air view are the new $200,000 College of Commerce build­ing and the $200,000 Power House, the former in use, the latter under construction. 
Alumni and Dillon Halls represent the latest developments in the fine art of housing the modern univer­sity student. Imagine Father Sorin's reaction to a .«lot for used razor blades. 
Costing $375,000, Alumni Hall has 1G3 single rooms and 15 doubles, without bath, with si.x singles and five doubles equipped with shower. The rooms of the rector and the pre­fects are furnished to introduce the element of permanence in these posts, with fireplace, bath and panelled walls. Rev. Raymond Clancy, C.S.C, is the imposing and genial figure in whose hands rest the pioneer affairs of the new Hall. 
The floors in the new halls are made of a hard rubber composition that deadens any stray hob-nail that tradition may bring into the stately corridors. An electric elevator is a feature of each hall, but locked doors to the shaft indicate that this sorm of elevation is not to be included in the regular curriculum. Voice cul­ture receives a blow with the intro-
RBV. RAYJIOXD CLANXY, C.S.C. 
Rector of Aluiinii Hall 

duction of e.vtension phones, second and third floor buzzers replacing the amateur train announcers who occa­sionally paged from the lone booth. 
The outside of Alumni Hall is elaborate enough to justify its key position at the entrance of the cam­pus and presents a most flattering tribute to those men of Notre Dame from whom it takes its name. Bosses at advantageous points of the build­ing illustrate the various phases of campus life, a football player on the northeast comer representing the late K. K. Rockne, '14. Niches over the various entrances contain decor­ative statues. 
Between Alumni Hall and its larger adjacent neighboring Dillon Hall is a space that is to be land­
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS November, 19S1 
scaped as a courtyard, forming, with the golf course; an impressive setting for the architecture of the buildings. 
The old engineering building is be­ing torn down as rapidly as the equipment can be moved to the new shops and laboratories in the John 
P. Gushing Hall of. Engineering. This one sun'ivor of the old era when the southern front boasted pig-stys and cornfields is vanishing and already over its debris the plan of the south­ern plaza looms large and beautiful. The polishing-off will come with the completion of construction, and when the Rockne Memorial closes the East-em end and perhaps another dormi­tory group the western, the plaza should present a broad sweep of shrubbery and wide walks, the top of a T -with the old Quadrangle form­ing the perpendicular. 
The Engineering Building, funds for the erection of which were con­tributed last Spring by John F. Gushing, '06, is externally well along, and internally permitting the instal­lation of some of the mysterious machines the engineers love and know so well. Designed by Frof. Francis W. Kervick of the Depart­ment of Architecture, the building fits harmoniously into the impressive architectural row of which it becomes a part—the earlier dormitory group by Profs. Ken-ick and Vincent Pa­gan, '20; the Dining Hall by Cram and Ferguson; the new dormitories by Maginnis and Walsh, and the Law Building by the same distinguished firm. Details of the new structure will be outlined by some more au­thoritative outliner at a later date. It is said to lack little in engineering facilities—from the freshman initia­tion to post-graduate equipment. 
The Edward N. Hurley College of Commerce is in constant use by the merchant princes of the next genera­tion. Tlie practical features were completed hurriedly to permit occu­pancy and the more decorative ad­juncts of the building are now being installed to the edification of the for­eign and domestic traders. Also more of this when the camera-man can do his duty. 
The power house, boasting none of the glamorous appeal of its front­door neighbors, is rearing its efficient and formidable girders where once the ice-house cast its substantial shadow. The latter has passed to that bourn created by the advent of 
artificial refrigeration. Stopped by the complexities of the front line structures, no reader expects the Edi­tor to even approach, at the cost of a split infinitive, the intricacies of Father Thomas Steiner's back-yard playhouse. Designed by Albert Kahn, in process of erection by Thomas Hickey, the new plant looks as if it could furnish the necessary heat to the entire University. 
From time to time during the cur­rent year, the Editor and his photo­graphic genius, Harry Elmore, will stalk the completed corridors of these new units of the Greater Notre Dame and with song and story, illustrated, bring to the outside world the mira­cles of brick and mortar. 
Notre Dame has kept faith, in its physical plant, with that program for a Greater Notre Dame that seemed so far away and now is here. 
The catalogue shows that the aca­demic Notre Dame has kept the faith in the standards set, the faculty em­ployed, and the systems instituted. 
It remains for the students, and for the alumni of Notre Dame in word and in deed to scale similar 
"GREATER NOTRE DAME" 

Showing the southward movement of buildings from, the old Quadrangle. 
November, 1931 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS S7 
Meetings Mark 
Progress of Rockne Memorial 
Splendid Personnel of 
Alumni and Non-Almnni 
Respond to Call; Nation­
wide Organization Being 
Perfected; Opening Dinner 
on November 4; Radio 
Broadcast NBC 

Meetings of Divisions and Districts have marked the progress of the Rockne Memoi'ial Association since the last ALUMNUS. 
A change in date for the opening of the campaign, from November 5 to November 4, was made to facilitate a national radio hook-up. The progi'am for this is not yet set for publication as the ALUMNUS wends its weary way pressward. 
Rockne Day, November 14, when the National Football Coaches Asso­ciation has asked all schools to pay some tribute to Knute Rockne and employ some means of contribution toward the Memorial, will be generally observed as a result of the request of Chick Meehan, president of the Coaches. Notre Dame plays that day in Baltimore, but details of the Navy -N. D. observance have not been an­nounced as this article moves to the printer. 
Division and District meetings of the Association have brought out the universal character of the response that the Association had hoped would be made to the proposed Memorial. 
In the East, on September 26, Hugh O'Donnell called a meeting of his Division at the N. Y. A. C. Nine Districts were represented. On Octo­ber 1, Joseph Byrne, Jr., presided at a meeting of the New Jersey Division, 
Rvadiui/ Lrft to Jiifjht: FRONT Row—Sam Willaman, football coaeh, Ohio State Univcrsitij: Kail J, Eiehenlcub, Columbus, Ohio: Rev. Father E. J. Finneaan, Notre Dame, Indiana: Hon­orable George White, uorernor. State of Ohio: Jas, R. Fitzaibbons, Neicark, Ohio; Don Miller, 
assistant coaeh, Ohio State Universilji: M, llarrti Miller, Clereland, Ohio. 
MlDULE Row—r. F. Hull, Croaksville, Ohio: Dan R. Shourlin, Siirtnufield, Ohio: \Vm. A. Cas­tellini, Cincinnati, Ohio: Larry S, MacPhail, inesident, Columbus Baseball Club: R. M. Hettinger, Columbus, Ohio: Ed MeHugh, Cincinnati, Ohio: Dwight Cusiek, Perru County prosecutor, Lexing­ton. Ohio: .-I. F, O'Xeil, .-\kron, Ohio: Frank Blasius, Logan, Ohio; R. .-l. Foerstcr, Columbus, O. 
BACK ROW—F. W. McCormick, Columbus, Ohio: Fred Bohn, Zanesville, Ohio: Ed Huber, Zanesville, Ohio: Thos. F. O^Seil, .Akrcn, Ohio: Ray Shcahan, Toledo, Ohio: Don Hamilton, Columbus, Ohio: J. Real Xeth, Columhtis, Ohio: Kenneth U'i7soii, Neic York City. 
with fifteen in attendance. New York Bridgeport, by the same group, on City has swung into its detailed work October 14. with a meeting of the List Committee John H. Neeson gathered the Di­under John Balfe on October 6, a vision representatives from Pennsyl­meeting of the Metropolitan Division vania, Maryland, Delaware, the Dis­chairmen on October 13, and a meet­trict of Columbia and Southern New ing of the chairmen and team cap­Jersey, in the Penn Harris Hotel, tains at the McAlpin Hotel on Octo­Philadelphia, on October 5. Father ber 22, which was addressed by the Finnegan also addressed this group, Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '90. 22 being present. On October 18 Seventy persons attended this meeting there was a District meeting at St. which was presided over by Hugh Thomas College, Scranton. On Octo­O'Donnell and Angus McDonald. ber 19, Clarence Overend, the Car­Allen Mahar held a meeting of Dis­negie Tech chairman of the Pittsburgh trict 4 in N. Y. on October 15 in District, presided at a meeting of his Norwich. E. C. Schonlau gathered District. October 20, District 4 held District 5 representatives in the Syra­a meeting at the Hotel Americus, cuse Hotel on October 19. Allentown. 
In the New England Division, the In the Southeast, Charles M. Bryan divisional meeting was held at the presided at a Divisional meeting at Boston City Club on September 22 the Tennessee Club, Memphis, with with Joseph A. Gartland presiding. representatives from eleven Districts John U. Riley, chaii-man for the in the Southeast present. On October Boston District, called his committee 22 there was a District meeting in the together in the same spot on October Tyler Hotel, Louisville. 
19. James H. Coogan held a meeting In the Middle West, James H. of District 3 in Fall River on October Brennan started his Division off with 
15. At a meeting of District 8 in a bang at a meeting in Chicago at Bridgeport, Conn., on October 7, Oscar the Midland Club on September 19. Lavery presided. Rev. Edward Finne-Milwaukee held a District meeting gan, C.S.C, '06, was present from the September 28, with Freeman Fitz­University, and Adam Walsh, chair­gerald as chairman. Robert E. Lynch, man of the New Haven District, was chairman of the Green Bay District, 
also in attendance with a group from gathered his chairmen at the Beau­his District. A second meeting was mont Hotel on September 29. Mark held, both in the Stratfield Hotel in Nolan, District chairman, of the Du­
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMN.US November, 1931 
luth area, presided at a meeting at the Duluth Hotel on September 30. Daniel Coughlin, chairman of the Twin Cities District, held a meeting at St. Thomas College in conjunction with the Notre Dame Club of the Twin Cities, with some 35 in attend­ance, Eev. Michael A. Mulcaire, C. 
S. C, 'IS, vice-president of the Uni­versity, addressed the meetings in this Di\'ision. 
Ohio held an outstanding Divisional meeting at the Neil House, Columbus, on October 13, with the Governor of Ohio, Hon. George White, present as Honorary Chairman of the Division. Rev. Edward Finnegan represented the Memorial .\ssociation from the University. Sam Willaman, coach at Ohio State, was present and spoke most highly of the object of the Memorial. Dan Shouvlin, Divisional chairman, presided. 
Michigan launched its Division work at a meeting at the Recess Club, Detroit, October 1, with Charles E. Dorais, '14, presiding. Twenty-ethree representatives of the District were present and heard one of the eloquent addresses by the Eev. John Cava­naugh to inspire their early efforts. 
Tim Galvin has kept Indiana, the home Di\'ision, in the van of the Divisional preparations. The general meeting was held in Bloomington on October 3, with Father Mculcaire the principal speaker, Mr. Galvin presid­ing. W. F. Fo.x, Jr., called a meeting of the Notre Dame Club and other representatives of the Indianapolis District at the Indianapolis Athletic Club on October 22. C. W. Bader got the Gary District men together on October 14. Twenty-four were pres­ent at a meeting of the Lafayette District at the Lafayette Club on October 20 with C. L. Vaughan pre­siding, and Dr. J. A. McCarthy met his District confreres at Whiting on October 27. 
In the Far Northwest, Jimmy Phe­lan gathered the Washington-Oregon Division representatives at a meeting in the Washington Athletic Club on October 13. 
There have been other meetings, data for which is not now available. But everywhere Notre Dame- men and non-Notre Dame men seem to be im­bued with that spirit in the work on this Memorial that Rock used to put into his own teams. The going is tough, but "that's when we like it." 
The moving picture, "The Spirit of Notre Dame," has been interesting Rockne Memorial workers and alumni everywhere. Confined strictly to the football phase of life at Notre Dame, the film shows admirable restraint and attention to detail. While of course Notre Dame men would liked to have seen more of the campus in the picture. Universal is to be con­gratulated upon the interpretation. The familiar faces of the Four Horse­men and their successors of later years added a lot to the film for N. D. men, the rhythm of the famous quar­tet having suffered little from the exigencies of six years out in the calmer pursuits. In most centers, Notre Dame alumni have been invited to pre-views of the picture. The world pi-emiere was held at the Palace in South Bend on October 7, with the University Band and Glee Club par­ticipating. Father John Cavanaugh giving one of his most brilliant addresses. Prof. Clarence Manion, master of ceremonies, and one-half the proceeds, amounting to a thousand dollars, coming to the Rockne Me­morial. 
University GolF Course Proves Popular 
The University golf course has proved a mecca for a great portion of the Notre Dame student body, pro­viding the fresh air ai;d exercise for the non-varsity man that all good theories call for. The course fee has been set at ten cents a day for stu­dents. Formerly it was fifty cents. 
In the 2S weeks from the opening on March 31 to October IS, 15,453 persons had played tt.e course, the great majority of whom were stu­dents. Almost 4,000 played in the first month of the current school year, since Sept. 14. 
The first hole-in-one in the course history was made October 8 this Fall by Lawrence MoUer on the 165-yard No. 15. MoUer also holds the course record of 70, set in May of last Spring, which is 3 below the par 73 for the 6,666 yards. MoUer had pre­viously held joint title ro the course record of 71. 
In the Founder's Day tournament, which ended on October 13, 72 holes of medal play, Joseph Switzer, a sophomore from St. Louis won the William J. Burke Trophy, a perma­nent trophy kept in the course club house with the annual winner's name added each year. In spite of hea\'y wind one day and a pouring rain on the final day, Switzer scored a 317. MoUer won the tournament last vear with 297. 
William J. Redmond, a senior com­merce man from Joliet 111., is cap­tain of the 1932 varsity team, which has excellent prospects. 
The record of the '31 team was most impressive, considering the re­cent introduction of golf as an offi­cial varsity sport at Notre Dame and the newness of the University course. 
In eight dual meets, five course i-ncords were established or tied. Notre Dame won every dual match, and won the team and individual championships at the Indiana inter­collegiate tournament. The varsity placed third in the National Inter­collegiate meet in Chicago, scoring 327 to Princeton's 314 and Yale's 311. Michigan and Southern California tied for fourth place in that meet. 
The results of the '31 season dual matches follow: 
Apr. 11—^N. D. 17; Valparaiso 1 
-A.pr. 17—N. D. 17%; Mich. State % 
Apr. IS—N. D. 15; Detroit fi • 
May 1—N.D.IS; Loyola 0 
May 2—N.D.ll%;Iowa6% 
May 9—N. D. 14 Vi; Mich. State 3 % 
May 16—N. D. 14%; Pittsburgh 3% 
May 25—N. D. 14%; Detroit 3% 
Rev. Raymond Murch, C.S.C, '23, prefect of discipline and one of the best golfers in t'ne Alumni Associa­tion, is in charge of the course. 
Father Murch is planning to in­augurate a real, annual Alumni Golf Tournament at Commencement this year that will bring into competi­tion some of the excellent golfers that the alumni roster boasts. The ALUMNUS will carry more of this when the heavy snow melts. 
In the meantime, the Editor rushes to the assistance of Father Murch's modesty to suggest that if any golf fan among the alumni wants to con­tribute a suitable trophy for this tournament it would stimulate the plan. -And— 
If any of the alumni "bears" wish to invest a surplus $10,000 in some­thing of real recreational value, Father Murch informs the ALUM­NUS that a system of sprinkling the fairways could be used to excellent advantage. 
Heads Charities Board 

The Reverend Raymond W. Mur­ray, C.S.C, head of the department of Sociology, has recently been ap­pointed chairman of the committee on Protective Care of National Con­ference of Catholic Charities. 
This committee deals with prob­lems in the field of Criminology, and is of nation-wide interest. It is com­posed of twenty-eight men including such executives as Judge Francis B. .A.Uegretti of Chicago; Reverend Francis Lane, chaplain of the Elmira, 
N. Y. Reformatory; Joseph P. Mur­phy, Chief Probation officer of the Newark, N. J. JuvenUe Court; Fred­erick A. Moran, New York State Parole Commissioners; and John P. Bramer of the New York State Pro­bation Department. 
A'ovember, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
•lllilltllllllllllllltl tIKIIIIIIIl IIDIttlll iiiatiDiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiDi I tiiii liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii nniiiiiiiiiiimiiiumtiiMimiiiiiiiiiiMiintiiiitiinMiiMinHgniMnmiiintU 


Alumni Notre Dame Shares With The World | 
No. 2.—In the Coaching Profession | 
""""•••"" Hiimiiimimmiini iiiii tiiiiKiiiiiiMiiiitiiiiii iiiiiiiiiitiiiii iiiiiiiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitttiiiiit)MfiiitiiiitiiiM)iiiiii*tiii*iiiitiiinti)itiiiiiiiii{S] 
C. B. '22, has alivays

Heartly ''Hunk'' Anderson been identified at Notre 
Dame as the living example of Rock's famous phrase, "When the going gets tough, that's ivliett tve like it.' ' Certainly no one in the coaching profession has a tougher path this year. The success of the team is the typical Ander­son answer. Hunk was born in George Gipp's home toum, Calumet, Mich­igan. He came to Notre Dame with Gipp and played on the undefeated teams of 191!) and 1920 and the equally able team of 1921 that lost to Iowa in a memorable battle. Hu7tk came back to Notre Dame iyi 192i to coach-the line of the Four Horsemen team at its peak. That line spoke for itself and Hunk's ability. In 192S Hunk went to St. Louis U. as head coach and organized the athletics there to the satisfaction of the St. Louis U. alumni, an enviable and rare coaching feat. Returning to Notre Dame in 19^10, Hunk produced a line that brought the team to a second successive national championship, and which made him the only logical man to fill the tragic vacancy. Hunk is married, has two girls and a boy, and is still doing "the best we can." 
id fire

Edward P. ''Slip'' Madigan Sr'TtJ/las ' un­
kind to the established institutions in California as "Slip" Madigan's teams. Edward Patrick "Slip" Madigan, LL.B. '20, is director of athletics and head football coach at Saint Mary's College, Contra Costa County, California. He graduated with an LL.B. degree in 1920. He coached at Columbia Uni­versity, Portland, Oregon, from the Fall of 1920 to the spring of 1921, when he tvent to Saint Mary's College, then in Oakland, on April 1, 1921. Though he landed at Saint Mary's on April Fools' day, the joke has been on everyone but Saint Mary's, for Slip's Galloping Gaels are today one of the country's best. His defeats of U. S. C. and U. C. already this year have brought loud acclaim. In the seasons of 1929 and 19.J0, the Galloping Gaels have lost but one game, winning .'sixteen and tieing one. In point of service to one institution young "Slip" Madigan is the veteran coach of the Pacific coast. 
J-f/^ M A/fal^fa "'"''" Kieran, sport columnist for The New York liarry IVie/jre Time.s, sat next to Harry Mehre, Ph.B. JiJoum. '22, at a dinner in New York two winters ago, and then hurried back to his typewriter to dub Harry "The Will Rogers of the football coaches." Three consecutive victories over Yale pay eloquent tribute to his coaching ability. Mehre did not play football at high school but at Notre Dame he did the conventional thing, and went out for the freshman squad. He played in the backfield and the next spring appeared for his varsity practice under Knute Roclme. The latter looked Mehre over for a. fetv days and shifted him to center. Mehre developed into a good center and icas the regular on the 1920 attd 1921 Notre Dame elevens. Mehre went from Notre Dame to St. Thomas, where he was assistant coach for two years. Then Frank Thomas interested Georgia anthorities in his former teammate, and Mehre joined the Bulldog staff in the spririg of 192i. He was elevated to head coach when George Woodruff retired and he has given Georgia three of their most colorful and brilliant elevens. Mehre is one of the youngest and most daring coaches in the South. 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS November, 1931 
BOOK 
Tlie Autobiographji of K nut e 

Rochne, the bulk of which was written 
by Rock shortly before his death, and 
which has been edited and completed 
by Mrs. Bonnie Rockne and the Rev. 
John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, is natui-ally 
enough the outstanding book of the 
group that appeared during the 
months since last Maixh 31. 
Authority and understanding have 

rounded out the unfinished work that 
in the Kockne-written pages holds all 
of that keenness, modesty, humor, 
high purpose, and brilliant intellect, 
that went into the later writings and 
addresses of Knute Rockne, 
It might even be said that the book has profited from the additions of Father Cavanaugh and Mrs. Eockne, for Rock was ever wont to assign to another those virtues so obviously his own. The added chapters give this appreciation of Rockne by those in the ideal positions to know him. 
Published by Bobbs-Merrill, In­dianapolis, the book was made up in a special alumni edition, autographed by Mrs. Rockne and Fathsr Cava­naugh with a fac-simile of Rock's signature, bound in the blue and gold of Notre Dame. This edition, selling for §5, was offered by The Book Shop, South Bend, and is practically sold out. 
Knute Rockne, Man Builder, by Harry A. Stuhldreher, '25, brings an excellent story of Rockne from one of the boys nearest to the heart of Rock, one of the Four Horsemen. Harry has put into his book just what he is best qualified to write as a contribu­tion to the Eockne bibliography, the great Coach from the viewpoint of a pupil. Probably no player has known Rock better than Stuhldreher. Carideo shared Rock with an eager world of radio, moving pictures, journalism, travel and sports generally. With Stuhldreher, Rockne was almost a year round teacher and companion. 
From this angle of the player under Rock, object of his teaching as prob­ably no other player has been, Stuhl­dreher's book fulfils a real service in the rounding out' of the Rockne his­tory and deserves the praise that has come to it from every side. Macrae­Smith-Company, Philadelphia, are the IJublishers. $2.50. 
Stadium, the new novel by Francis Wallace, '23, reveals that young gen­tleman as becoming rapidly more adept in the more drawn out form of fiction. Frank has capitalized the current trend of public opinion toward a consideration of commercialization in football to draw a most gi-aphic 
 REVIEWS 
pictui-e of the rise of a stadium and a football team under the shrewd business genius of a prominent bank­er. Naturally all of the commercial content of the Carnegie report finds reflection in the process. 
The most commendable thing, in many respects, in the new book, is the tremendous improvement in the fin­ished product. Frank's genius in the field of sport is recognized. We ex­pect ability there, and get it. But in this novel, romance, character and setting, provide an artistic backdrop for the cold scientific football struc­ture built against it. As a novelist, Frank Wallace would seem to this humble critic to have arrived. Farrar & Einehart are again the publishers. The price is ?2.00. 
A Compendium of Tlieologi/, by the Very Rev. J. Berthier, brings to t'he English language another of the able translations from the French of Rev. Sidney A. Raemers, Ph.D. '29, a mem­ber of the University faculty. Of the new work. Father Charles Miltner, C.S.C, '11, says: ". . . many serious minds ai-e now seeking for a more complete understanding of Catholic doctrine. This the present volume supplies in a fonn at once compre­hensive and clear." B. Herder Book Co., St. Louis, are publishers. $2.75. 
Father Raemers is now working upon a second, third and fourth volume of the same topic by the same author. A number of other transla­tions from the French in subjects of religious and educational interest have been published by Father Rae­mers since his residence at Notre Dame. 
Herder's are Father Raemers' pub­lishers. 
New Library Collection Donated to University 
Francis O'Neill, retired captain of the Chicago police department, has presented his private library of 1500 volumes of Irish history and Irish music to the University. This col­lection has been the life hobby of Captain O'Neill. 
Included in the collection are many beautifully bound and illustrated books. A set of Shaw and Nodder's "Naturalists Miscellany" published in 1790 has from fifty to one hundred brilliantly colored plates in each vol­ume. The colors are as bright today as the day they were applied. 
A copy of Wood's "Giants and Dwarfs" h^s been made doubly in­teresting by extra illustrations. There is a fourth edition of "Real Life in Ireland by a Real Paddy" with the highly colored engravings fay Aitkin and others. The collection includes a set of the short-lived Dub­lin Penny Journal, 1832-36 and sev­eral other rare Irish periodicals. A first -American edition of Thomas Moore's "Life of Sheridan" is also included. 
Captain O'Neill is an author, and due to his efforts many of the old Irish melodies have been set to mu­sic and preserved for future genera­tions. He is the author of "Irish Minstrels and Musicians" and "Irish Fold Music," and the compiler of "The Music of Ireland." 
This collection supplements the Hibernian collection already in the University library, and it will be es­pecially helpful to graduate students . working in the field of Irish history. 
ROCKNE FOOTBALL GAME 
A very interesting heritage of the late Knute Eockne is the Eockne Football Game, a product of Radio Sports Inc., a companv headed bv E. H. Schwab, '05. 
The game was revised and ap­proved by Rock shortly before his death, and carries out in its details a parallel with actual games that is remarkable. 
The game itself is solidly built and attractively designed. All of the contingencies of a game are provid­ed for, and the Editor confesses a very real kick out of playing it, ven­turing the opinion that the children of alumni will have a fine time trying to pry the board away from the old man. 
The set-up is also equipped to act as a grid-graph for radio reception of football games. Coupled with a base­ball game designed by Graham Mc-Namee on the other side, also suit­able for radio reception of games, the board actually gives four units. 
The ALUMNUS hesitates to ap­pear commercial-minded, but in this particular product, by an alumnus, from a company headed by an alum­nus and of real interest to alumni, the rule stands suspended. 
In addition to this, Mr. Schwab has promised the Rockne Memorial Asso­ciation one dollar for each order placed by an alumnus, and the Rockne Estate of course derives a benefit from the arrangements for the production of the game. 




Musical Organizations Show Rare Promise 
Joseph Casasanta, '23, Develops Band and Glee Club in Record Time; Public Appearances and Radio Broadcast Prove Merits of '31-'32 Men. 
CoMBiXED NOTRE DAME BAXD AND GLEE CLUB 
Prof. Joseph Casasanta, '2i, Directs 110 Voices and So-Piece Band at Premiere. 
So much has happened in Notre Dame's musical world in so short a time that the ALUMNUS feels any treatment will be inadequate and no praise sufficient. 
The Univei'sity Band reported for practice on September 21. On Sep­tember 24 the Band received uni­forms. On September 26 the organ­ization appeared in uniformed march­ing formation at the Eockne Memorial Game in the Stadium. That was speed, emphasized by the fact that half of the Band is composed of new mem­bers. 
On October 7, the combined Band of 85 pieces and the newly ox-ganized Glee Club of 110 voices, appeared at the woi-ld premiere of "The Spirit of Notre Dame" at the Palace Theatre at South Bend, and sang and played four numbers. 
These numbers, to add to the diffi­culty and the achievement, included a new alma mater song, "Notre Dame, Our Mother," with words by the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06, and impressive music by Joseph Casasanta, '23. Poet and musician have chosen the best from their fields for a com­bination that must inspire any Notre Dame audience and which will soon, the ALUJINUS hopes, be available for alumni. 
On Friday, October 9, the Glee Club sang on the Armour Hour, a national hook-up, originating in Chicago, sing­ing two Notre Dame songs and two Northwestern songs on the eve of the 
N. D.-N. U. game. The Club also gave a number on the RKO hour the same night in conjunction with the appearance of "Hunk" Anderson and Mrs. Rockne at the Chicago premiere of "The Spirit of Notre Dame." 
The Band has appeared at the Northwestern, Drake and Pitt games with constantly increasing and im­proving tunes and formations. 
Professor Casasanta deserves un­limited and unending praise for both the quality and the quantity of the work of the University's musical or­ganizations this year. 
VICTOR RIDDER AT NOTRE DAME 
Victor Ridder, prominent New York publisher and welfare enthusiast, spent Thursday, October 22nd, on the campus, as guest of Prof. R. A. Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance de­partment. 
Mr. Ridder spoke to the students following boy guidance on the his­tory of boys work and the develop­ment of the various national organi­zations. As a member of the i;xec­utive boards of such agencies as the Boy Scouts of America, the Boys Club Federation and the Catholic Boys Clubs of New York, which he %vas instrumental in founding, Mr. Ridder has for many years been closely identified with work among boys. He is familiar also with the work of institutions caring for chil­dren by virtue of his office of chair­man of the New York State Board of Charities which has supervision of all state institutions. 
He was the guest of Rev. Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C, vice-president of the University at dinner. 
He is the son of the late Hermann Ridder, founder and publisher of the Staats Zeitung, the largest daily newspaper printed in German in the United States; a man who was for many years the leading German Catholic in this country. 
The Ridder family own a chain of newspapers published in New York, St. Paul, San Francisco, Seattle etc. 
The family were always strong backers of the late Brother Bama^ bas in his work in behalf of under­privileged children. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS November, 1931 
Proposed New Constitution — Second Printing 
The ALUMNUS reprints herewith a revised Consti­tution and a supplementary set of By-Laws, pursuant to a motion passed at the last Annual Meeting, as follows: "Resolved, that the newly elected president is authorized and directed, to appoint by July 11, 1931, a committee of three to draft such additions and amendments to the Constitution of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame as will provide for the recommendations of the Board of Directors submitted at this Meeting. Such additions and amendments after receiving the approval of the Board of Directors of the Association, shall be pub­lished in the October and November, 1931, issues of the ALUMNUS. Ballots with return post-cards shall be mailed all members of the Association not later than December 1, 1931. The poll shall close February 15, 1932, and if a two-thirds majority of the vote cast favors the additions and amendments, they shall be in force and effect immediately, and the officers of the Alumni Associa­tion shall see that their provisions are complied with." 
The primary changes are: 

1.
 Reducing the Constitution to fundamentals. 

2.
 Shifting the details of the Association to By-Laws so that the rapid changes that are now occurring can' be facilitated to the best advantage of the Association. 

3.
 Combining the Secretary's and Treasurer's jobs to relieve the present situation in which a non-paid officer is asked to assume a very concrete annual task. (The new-officer to be properly bonded and provision made for regu­lar accounting.) 

4.
 Dividing the Association into districts, under dis­trict representatives, to provide a more effective contact between the alumni and the Association. 


CONSTITUTION OP THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAJIE 
ARTICLE I. Name SECTION 1. The name of this organization shall be the Alumni 
Assotnation of the University of Notre Dame. 
ARTICLE n . Objects 

SECTION 1. The object of this A&ociation shall be to foster a spirit of loyalty and fraternity among the graduates and former students of Notre Dame; to establish more effective relations between the University and the Alumni Association. 
ARTICLE IIL Membership SECTION l. The Association shall consist of active, honorary and associate members. SECTION 2. The active membership shall consist of the following: 
(a)
 Alumni of the University of Notre Dame. The term "alumni" shall embrace those holding the degree given in course by the Uni­versity for bachelor, master, or doctor. 

(b)
 Former matriculates whose entering Class shall have been graduated and who, upon application to and appnsval by the Board of Directors shall be acceptable to membership. 

SECTION 3. The honorary membership shall consist of the following: 

(a)
 All who receive from the University of Notre Dame degrees Honoris Causa. 

(b)
 Those friends and benefactors of the University of Notre Dame whose services the Association may desire to recognize and who shall be'nominatcd and elected by the Board of Directors. 


SECTION 4. Associate membership shall consist of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame, not otherwise eligible to membership, who, upon election by the Board of Directors shall enjoy all the privileges of active membership. 
Provided, however, the qualifications for membership shall not apply to those who are members of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame at the time of the adoption of this Constitution. 
ARTICLE IV. Officers 
SECTION l. The affairs of this Association shall be managed, con­ducted and controlled by a Board of Directors consisting of a President, first Vice-President, second Vice-President, Secretary-Treasurer and six Directors. 
SECTION 2. The retiring President of the Association shall become ex ofiicio a Director for one year next succeeding the expiration of his term of office as President- All of the elected members of the Board of Directors as constituted under the Constitution of 1925 shall con­tinue in office as Directors until their respective terms of office expire. At the annual election of the Association to be held in the Spring of 1932 and each succeeding year thereafter one Director shall be elected to hold office for four years until his successor has been duly elected and qualified. Each graduating Class of the University beginning with the Oass of 1932 shall elect a member of the Gass as Director of the Association for a term of one year and until his successor has been duly elected and qualified. 
SECTION 3. No one shall be eligible to hold the office of President. first Vice-President and second Vice-President unless he shall have received a degree given in course by the University of Notre Dame of bachelor, master or doctor. Any member of the Association in good standing is eligible for any office in the Assocaition except as herein­before provided. 
SECTION 4, Any vacancies occurring in the Board of Directors shall be filled at the next annual election of the Association. SECTION 5. Annual elections shall be held in the Spring each year in such manner as the By-laws shall provide. 
SECTION 6, The Board of Directors shall meet annually immediately before the annual meeting of the Association or at any time at the call of the President or by a petition signed by any three members of the said Board. 
SECTION 7. The President and any two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, otherwise four members of the Board shall be necessarj- for a quorum. 
ARTICLE V. The Fiscal Year 
The official year of the Association which shall govern the terms of the officers and the fiscal affairs of the Association shall be from the date of the annual meeting to the date of the next annual meeting. 
ARTICLE VL By-Laws 
By-laws not inconsistent with this Constitution embodying additional provisions for the government of the Association and for the purpose of carrying out all provisions of this Constitution shall be adopted and may be amended from time to time by a vote of two-thirds of the members present or voting at any annual meeting of the Association or by special mailed ballot, provided further that notice shall be given of the change or amendment in the official publication of the Organiza­tion at least thirty days prior to said vote. Provided further that the By-laws appended to this Constitution shall go into effect contem­poraneously therewith and shall be and remain in full force and effect subject to amendment as hereinbefore provided. 
ARTICLE Vn. Amendments 
SECTION 1. Amendments to this Constitution may be proposed 
(a)
 By a petition signed by at least ten members and filed with the Secretari* on or before April 30; or 

(b)
 By a resolution of the Board of Directors filed with the Secre­tary on or before April 30; and shall thereupon be printed in the ALUMNUS, if and when published, before the annual meeting, and shall be submitted to the members upon, and as part of, the printed ballot be mailed to the members on or before May 20. The vote thereof shall be canvassed and certified by the tellers as provided for the election of officers. 


SECTION 2. An affirmative vote for the addition of such an amend­ment by two-thirds of the total legal votes cast at such election shall render such amendment effective from the time of the announcement of such result, if not otherwise provided in such amendment. If it does not receive two-thirds vote, it shall stand rejected. 
BY-LAWS 

ARTICLE I. Duties and Powers of Officers 
SECTION 1. It shall be the duty of the President to preside at all meetings of the Association and the Board, and to perform all the usual duties of that office. 
November, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
SECTIOX 2. The first Vice-President shall perform the duties of the President in case of the !atter*s absence or disability. 
SECTION 3. The second Vice-President shall perform the duties of the President and the first Vice-President in case of the absence or the disability of both and in addition shall have charge of. and preside at the annual meeting of, the Officers of the Districts. 
SECTION 4. It shall be the duty of the Secretary-Treasurer to keep an alphabetical list of all the alumni together with brief btoprraphical notes pertaining to the same: to act as necrologist, rendering an annual report as such necrologist, as prescribed by the Board of Directors; to act as a general agent of the Association under the control of the Board of Directors and to this end he shall have the general welfare in charge: to aid in the formation of local alumni clubs; to act as editor of the official alumni magazine, the Notre Dame Alumnus; to collect membership dues; to keep the seal and accounts of the Associa­tion ; to receive all money belonging to the Association or funds held in trust by it; to inform each member of the Association concerning delinquencies in the payment of dues. He shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe and shall receive such compensation as the Board of Directors may de­termine. The S2cretar>--Treasurer shall give a bond for the faithful discharge of these duties, in such amount as the Board of Directors shall determine and with such sureties as they may approve. He shall render a true and accurate statement of the funds of the Association at the annual meeting. His accounts shall be audited annually by an auditor appointed by the Board of Directors. 
SECTION 5. The Board of Directors shall have control and manage­ment of the affairs of the Association in conformity with this Con­stitution and the By-laws. 
SECTION 6. Term of office. Every officer of this Association whose tenure of office is not herein otherwise specifically fixed for a longer term shall hold his office from his election until the next annual meet­ing of this As:>ociatioiI and until his successor is elected. 
ARTICLE II. Meetings 

SECTION 1. The annual meeting of this Association shall be held at the University of Notre Dame, in the State of Indiana, upon a day and hour to be fixed by the Secretary of this Association with the approval of the President of the University of Notre Dame, provided, h'owever, that such day must be one of the days during which the annual Commencement exercises of thn University of Notre Dame are in progress. 
SECTION 2. Special meetings of the Association may be held at any time at the call of a majority of the Directors fixing the time and place of such a meeting. 
ARTICLE IIL Election of Officers 
SECTION 1. At the annual meeting but not later than November 1 following the incoming President shall appoint two nominating com­mittees of three members each who have not held an office for a year. 
Nominations for all ofiicers except Secretarj'-Treasurer and the Director representing the graduating Class shall be made by these Committees. The Secrotarj--Treasurer shall be elected by the Board of Directors. 
The names and addresses of the members of these committees shall ,be published in everj* edition of the Notre Dame Alumnus issued after 
November 1 of that year and until January 20 following with a request 
for suggestions from the membership at large. 
SECTION 2. These two committees shall confer separately, but each shall apprise the other upon its conclusions upon the nomination for President on or before January 20. The two committees are required to make different nominations for President, otherwise shall not be restricted against duplication of nominations. On or before February 28 both committees shall report their nominations to the President and to the Secretary; and from thence forward, the Secretary shall cause such nominations to be published in the Alumnus continuously until the annual meeting without reference as to which committee made the nominations. 
SECTION 3. Any twenty-five members, not more than ten of whom reside in any one county may by petition addressed to the Secretary, make other nominations, providing this is done by filing same with the Secretary not later than March 1. Such nominations shall also be pub­lished in the .'Uit»mus after they are received, as in the preceding section required. 
SECTION 4. The names of all persons nominated shall be placed by the Secretary on a printed ballot, in alphabetical order, without dis­tinction as to method of nomination, and one ballot, together with an envelope marked "Ballot" with lines for the signature and address of the \'oter, shall be mailed, on or before May 20 to each member entitled to vote. 
This ballot, when marked shall be sealed in such envelope marked "Ballot" upon which the voting member shall endorse his signature and last mail address, and mailed back to the Secretary of this Asso­ciation or to the Association itself, at Notre Dame. Indiana; or such ballot so enclosed in a sealed envelope, and duly endorsed, may be delivered in person to the Secretary. But no such ballot shall be received or counted unless the same is delivered, as above provided, by mail or in person, at or before the actual meeting, that is. the actual opening and convening of the annual meeting, and before £he ballots arc delivered to the tellers as herein provided. The Secretary, or some representative for him, shall be in attendance at the annual meeting at least thirty minutes before the convening of the same in order to receive any ballots tendered to him. 
SECTION 5. The Secretary shall record, in alphabetical order, the names, with addresses, of all members whose ballot has been received; and shall sec that no member deposits' with him more than one sealed ballot; and immediately upon the opening or tmnvening of the annual meeting (at which time the polls close), he shall-deliver all such ballot envelopes, unopened, together with the list of those who voted, to the tellers theretofore appointed by the President. 
SECTION 6. No ballot shall be received or counted unless it is en­closed in a scaled envelope, marked "Ballot", with the name and address of the voting member clearly endorsed thereon, and delivered to the Secretary before the polls close. 
SECTION 7. The President shall, either at any time before or imme­diately upon the convening of the annual meeting, appoint three tellers. who shall open the ballots and canvass the vote, and certify the result thereof forthwith to the membership in annual meeting assembled; and the ballots and list shall thereupon be returned to the Secretary, who shall preserve them for one week, at which time he may destroy them unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors. In canvassing the vote, one teller shall open the envelope, and deliver the folded ballot therefrom to the second teller, and the envelope to the third teller, who shall destroy the envelope, and so on. When they are all opened, the votes shall be counted. 
SECTION 8. A plurality of the votes cast shall elect. 
ARTICLE rV. DISTRICT GO\'EKNORS 
SECTION 1. For the purpose of more efficient administration of the business and affairs of the Association, the Board of Directors shall divide the territory in which the members of the Association reside into districts. The President shall, from time to time, as directed by the Board of Directors promulgate a list of the districts together with their respective boundaries and no changes or additions shall be made in the districts or boundaries thereof except by a majority of the vote of the Board of Directors. 
At the election of the Association to be held in the Spring of 1932 there shall be elected from each of the districts as provided a District Governor and a Lieutenant District Governor who shall hold office for one year. At the expiration of his term of office the Lieutenant Dis­trict Governor shall become District Governor and shall hold said office for one year. At every annual election after 1932, there shall be elected from each of the districts as aforesaid a Lieutenant Governor who shall hold office for one year and on the expiration of his term of office shall ipso facto become Governor of said district for a term of one year. 
TH E ELECTION OF DISTRICT GO\XRNOR AND LIEUTENAXT 
DISTRICT GONXRNOR 
The District Governor and Lieutenant District Governor shall be nominated and elected in the same manner as provided for the election of other officers of the Association except that the nominating com­mittees for said officers shall be composed of the members of said Association residing in the said district and shall be elected by mem­bers of the Association residing in the said district. In the event any district nominating committee fails or neglects to select a nominee for office of District Governor or Lieutenant District Governor within the time as provided by the By-laws of the Association, then the Board of Directors shall nominate from the membership of such district a member of the said district for the said office, or offices as the case may be. 
SECTION 2. DISTRICT GOSXBNOR'S DUTIES 
The District Governor shall, under the general supervision of t.ie Board of Directors of the Association be charged with the duty »f furthering the objects of the Association in the district from whitth he is elected; to supervise and organize new alumni clubs in his dis­trict; to promote effective cordial relations between the local alumni clubs in his district and between said local alumni clubs and tie University. 
LIEUTENANT DISTRICT GO\'ERXOK*S DtrriEs The Lieutenant District Governor shall perform the duties of the District Governor in case of the latter*s absence or disability. (Continued on Page 51) 
RELIGIOUS  John F. O'Hara, CS.C  
PAGE » » » »  Prefect of Religion  
THE ALUMNI  AND  FREQUENT COMMUNION  

In the world-wide organization of the Catholic Church, the parish is the immediate unit through which the successors of the Apostles fulfill their three-fold duty of teaching, ruling, and sanctifying the faithful. The first essential of the good Cath­olic, then, is that he be a good pa­rishioner—^that is, that there be noth­ing lacking in the fulfillment of his duties towards the parish to which he belongs. 
A primary test of practical Cath­olicity proposed by the Canon Law is the annual reception of the Holy Eucharist, within the Easter season, in the parish church. While this is the required minimum, it is the de­sire of the Church that the faithful receive this Sacrament as frequently as possible, even daily, because it is the greatest source of nourishment of the spiritual life. Consequently, while the Easter • duty is a test of practical Catholicity, the frequency of reception is a test of spiritual activity. 
In the Religious Survey of the alumni, a question on the present practice with regard to the reception of the Sacraments brought the in­formation that 5% of the alumni re­ceive daily, 27% weekly or oftener, and 70% at least once a month. Two and one-half per cent (sixteen indi­viduals) had not received the Sacra­ments for more than a year. The average pastor is highly gratified if fifty per cent of the men in his parish are monthly communicants; therefore, a record of 70% of month­ly communicants is decidedly above the average. 
What Becomes of the Daily Communicants ? 

A comparison of Sacramental prac­tices during college days and since leaving school gives a very direct answer to the charge so often heard that "these boys go daily while they are at Notre Dame and do well if they make their Easter Duty after they leave school"—^the inference be­ing, of course, that "mob psychology" dominates at school and determines 
. the actions of the individuals, leav­ing no deep conviction to carry over into after life. 
The answer is striking. Of those who received daily or practically daily during their school days,. 
9% now receive daily, 

45%, daily to weekly, 
31%, weekly to monthly, 
10%, three to ten times a year, 
3%, once or twice a year, 1.3%, not at all. 
Of the two individuals who made up the 1.3%, one remarked: "This Survey woke me up. I am going to the Sacraments very soon now." The other recently made a long journey to Notre Dame to return to the Sac­raments. 
Of those who received weekly or oftener, but not daily, during school, 19%, three to ten times a year, 
3% now receive daily, 26%, daily to weekly! 48%,weekly to monthly, 19%, three to ten times a year, 
4%, once or twice a year; 

.4%, not at all. 
Of those who received monthly or oftener, but less often than weekly during school, 
2% now receive daily, 

7%, daily to weekly^ 51%, weekly to monthly, 28%, three to ten times a year, 
8%, once or twice a year, 
4% (seven individuals), not at all. 

Daily and weekly reception dis­appear from the tables when you study the present records of the alumni who received less often than monthly during their time at Notre Dame. Monthly communion is the practice of 16% of those who re­ceived from three to ten times dur­ing their school days, while 68% of these men report that they still keep up the infrequent practices of their earlier years; two individuals of this group receive only once or twice a year, and one does not receive at all. Of those who received only once or twice a year during school (six indi­viduals), one now receives monthly or oftener, four go once or twice a year, and one has left the practice of religion. Two more, who failed to receive during their college days, are still out of the Church. 
A further comparison shows that the Sacraments are received at least once a month by, 85% of those who received daily at 
Notre Dame, 77% of those who received weekly, 60% of those who received monthly, 
and only 16% of those who received less often 

than monthly; and that they are received at least once a week by, 54% of those who received daily at 
Notre Dame, 29% of those who received weekly, and only 9% of those who received monthly. 
The Alumni and Charity 

In answer to the Survey question, "What percentage of your income have you devoted to charity this year?" the following replies were leceived: , 
According to graduation years 

Before 1906-1912- 1918- 1926- Unci. Tot. 1906 1911 1917 1923 1930 2% or 
less 16 10 22 101 107 U 239 3-3<;i: 10 12 28 54 37 5 166 6-S7c 4 S 3 11 7 33 9-129!: 3 3 8 6 9 2 33 Above 
12Si 8 2 3 14 13 None 2 11 29 2 44 No 
answer 7 4 7 27 30 3 63 
Seventy-nine, or 15% of those who reported their charity, gave more than five per cent of their annual income. Studied further according to the frequency of their Commun­ions, it was found that the donors of more than five per cent constituted 21% of those who received weekly or oftener, 19% of those who re­ceived less often than monthly, 12% of those who received monthly or oftener, but less often than weekly. None of those who had neglected the Sacraments for more than a year were found in this group. 
According to incomes, the most charitable group was the $5000­§7500 class. Twenty-nine per cent of these men contributed more than 5% of their incomes to charity. In this classification the whole results were as follows: 
Incomes of §3000 or less _ 10% Incomes of §3001-55000 16% Incomes of §5001-§7500 29% Incomes of §7501-512000 17% 
There was no appreciable differ­ence between the married men and the bachelors among the "more char­itable" alumni. 
0.. 
S 


EDITORIAL: 

Q.. 
6( PLAY DOWN 
The depression seems to have had no appreciable effect in reducing tlie number or even the activities of the na­tional councils for this and that. Their propaganda con­tinties to choke the waste baskets. Their executive secre­taries and field workers contiiiue to si)end money in u large way. The solicitations for money continue to arrive and, no doubt, are meeting with about the vsual response from the sucker list. 
Of course, any one may spend his own money as he chooses, but we think it is a pity that this year, when money is urgently needed to carry the poor and unfor­tunate through the winter, any money is being tva-sted on elaborate organizations of special pleaders. Even if the causes which they advocated were uniformly worthy, which, of course, they are not, a moi'atorium on their activities for the benefit of the unemployed might be invoked. 
This, ive should say, would be a sploidid year in which to sidetrack the appeals of the racketeers of the uplift. If, in consequence, a couple of dozen executive secretaries are added to the roster of the unemployed, that may be regarded as so much additional net gahu 
The newspapers could name, but they would hesitate to do so, a dozen appeals by various "National Councils" that .ihould be put aside. 
As the Executive Secretary of a national council whose literature has choked some of the best wastebaskets, the Editor's interest in the above editorial from the Chicago Tribune was not inconsiderable. 
The philosophy of the thing is impossible. 
If it were not a reflection of the philosophical decay of a substantial mass mind, it would not deserve attention. But inasmuch as it represents, in theory, a public opin­
ion, Notre Dame men ought to reflect upon it a bit. In effect, the editorial writer advocates that we supple­ment the business debacle with the discarding of our religious and social progress. With the McFaddenesque virility of the Tribune, this particular voice says, in effect, "Damn the women and children,—save the men!" Opinions expressed here can logically be accused of bias. But as one who has fought upstream with projects that the editorial quoted comprehends, I wonder, if more busi­ness men had kept the literature of the councils out of their wastebaskets and filled them instead with the hot tips from their ticker tape, whether the whole national picture might not show a more skilful chiaroscuro. 
The bars are down in the world of commerce. Unrest and abuses are flooding in. Strong men and honest men are being swept into business oblivion by the accumulated forces of error. 
Now, as never before, those agencies which have aided in the strengthening of the moral fiber of America ought to receive support. It will not take bread from the mouths of the starving or the chances of work from the un­employed. 
•iiiiiitiuiiMiiitMiiMiiHiiMiimiitMiimimiiiiiiiMMm ^^>^^ 

 THE UPLIFT" 
Unless the moral courage and the spiritual stamina of Ainerica are maintained, all motive for reconstruction will vanish in chaos. 
If a few organizations, if a few individuals, have gained disproportionately from the "uplift" field,—and that they have is self-evident—these cases do not condemn the causes in whose name they profited. 
Because business houses and banks, like rows of toy soldiers, have fallen with the toppling of the first, such keen critics as the Tribune editor would have the schools and churches do the same. 
It's all absurd,—^but it's dangerous! 
Archbishop McNicholas, speaking to the National Coun­cil of Catholic Men recently, summarized a vital point, which the above editorial confirms: 
"Loving America as we love our very lives, we cannot think of her as apostatizing from God and His Christ. There are, however-, ominous signs of such an apostasy. We are not an irreligious people, and yet it cannot be denied that we are rapidly drifting into Naturalism, that we are showing indifference to God, that material con­siderations are absorbing the attention of too many who have been most richly endowed with intellectual powers." 
Wordsworth caught in the magic of poetry the rather harsh materialism that modem conditions have aggravat­ed, when he wrote: 
"The world is too much with us; late and soon, Getting and spending we lay waste our powers . ." 
Poetry will perhaps be criticised as a weapon against the philosophy of panic. But sometimes in poetry a fact and an ideal can best be expressed, mingling with beauty of words a high-minded grasp of the most material situations. 
The quoted editorial attacks uplift. Real uplift can reach only one successful goal—God. An attack on the agencies of uplift, therefore, is indirectly an attack on God. The defense need not be Catholic. It should be the battle of everj'one who believes in God. 
The Editor of the ALUMNUS takes the liberty of recommending to the Tribune writer, and to all who wish to read, that beautiful Catholic sonnet of the non-Catholic Longfellow: 
"Oft have I seen at some cathedral door A laborer, pausing in the dust and heat, Lay down his burden, and with reverent feet 
Enter, and cross himself, and on the floor 
Kneel to repeat his paternoster o'er; Far off, the noises of the world retreat; The loud vociferations of the street 
Become an undistinguishable' roar. 
So, as I enter here from day to day. And leave my burden at this minster gate, Kneeling in prayer, and not ashamed to pray, The tumult of the time disconsolate To inarticulate murmurs dies away, While the eternal ages watch and wait." 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS November, 19-31 
University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 

COLLEGE ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS 
For the  COLLEGE OF  ARTS  For the COLLEGE OF  ENGI­ 
AND LETTERS, the COLLEGE  NEERING and the  COLLEGE  
OF COMMERCE, and the DE­ OF SCIENCE:  
PARTMENT  OF  PHYSICAL  
EDUCATION:  English  3 units  
History  1 unit  
GROUP I  Algebra  1 unit  
All nine units are required.  EnglishHistoryAlgebraGeometry, planeScience (lab.)  3 units  1 unit  1 unit  1 unit  1 unit  All ten units are required.  *Adv. AlgebraGeometry, plane''Solid Geom.PhysicsLanguage  1/4 unit  1 unit  1/4 unit  1 unit 2 units  
Language  2 units  

GROUP II English 1 unit English 1 unit Latin 2 to 4 units Latin 2 to 4 units Greek 2 to 3 units Greek 2 to 3 units German 2 to 4 units German 2 to 4 units French 2 to 4 units French 2 to 4 units Spanish 2 to 4 units Spanish 2 to 4 units 
At least two 

At least three History 1/4 to 2 units units must be History 1/4 to 2 units 
units must be 
Adv. Algebra ^/^ unit from this Trigonometry 1/4 unit from this Solid Geom Vt unit group. Physiography l/i unit group. 
Trigonometry V^ unit Physiology 1/4 unit Physiography 1/^ unit Astronomy 1/4 unit Physiology 1/4 unit Botany 1/4 unit Astronomy 1/4 unit Zoology 1/4 unit Botany 1/4 unit Chemistry 1 unit Zoology % unit Chemistry 1 unit Physics 1 unit 

Not more than 

Not more thsm GROUP III Free electives. Any subject three units three units Free electives. Any subject will be counted by the high school will be counted by the high school counted.. toward graduation. 
counted. toward graduation. 
Total required 15 units Total required IS units 
"^Students entering the pre-medical course in the College of Science are not required to present credits in Advanced Algebra or Solid Geometry but may substitute a unit in second group. Less than 1/4 unit in any subject is not counted, and less than 2 units in a language will not be counted. 

Graduates of standard accredited high schools are admitted upon certification of credits with­out examination. Students from non-accredited schools should write the College Entrance Exam­ination Board, 431 West 117th Street, New York City, for places and dates of examinations. 
College of Law requires three years undergraduate college work for entrance. 
Noveniber, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Registrar Emphasizes Entrance Requirements 
Robert Riordan, '24, Registrar, Outlines Things Alumni Ought To Know About Entering Students; Reflects Notre Dame's Academic Progress. 
Notre Dame has indeed been for­

tunate in an alumni body whose in­
eterest in their Alma Mater has been 
as diversified as her activities. The 
public too often thinks of the Uni­
vei-sity in terms of athletics, forget­
ting that the primary object of the 
institution is education. Our alumni, 
while ardent supporters of our whole­some extra-curricular program, have not lost sight of the fundamental idea behind a university. Witness the number of students who are directed to us for purely scholastic reasons, students who have caught that in­tangible though i-eal spirit of scholar­ship from an enthusiastic alumni. The purpose of this article is to give information of a helpful nature to those numerous alumni who are select­ing and aiding prospective Notre Dame men. The rapid growth and . development of the University during the past few years have brought many changes with which the older alumni are not familiar. Enrollment is numbered in thousands instead of in hundreds. Educational standards have changed and the University is 
keeping pace with these changes.. 
First, the matter of entrance re­quirements: since there is no longer a preparatory department at Notre Dame, applicants must be fully pre­pared elsewhere. A list of entrance requirements in the way of high school subjects is published in this issue of THE ALUMNUS. In order to successfully follow the courses offered by the University, it is neces­sai-y that the applicant be fully and carefully prepared. The subjects out­lined for study in high school are se­lected for that purpose. Being a mem­ber of the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools and of other such standardizing agencies, the University may make no exceptions to the entrance rules as 
By ROBERT B. RIORDAN, '24 
laid down. The applicant, then, must present fifteen high school units from among the required list of subjects. In exceptional cases an applicant may be considered if he is not deficient in more than one unit. 
In addition to the quantitative, there is also a qualitative require­ment. Merely passing all the required subjects in high schools does not in­sure acceptance. In the first place, applications far exceed the capacity of class rooms, hence selection must be made to hold the enrollment within the quota. More important, howevei-, is the selection of applicants who will most probably succeed in college. Past experience has shown that those in the lower sections of their high school classes fail to fulfill requirements in college and are soon dropped for poor scholarship. Selection is made in order to eliminate as much as possible this scholastic mortality. In general, we require that an applicant to be admitted rank in the upper or middle third of his high school class, due consideration being given to other qualities, such as scores in intelligence or aptitude tests. Experiment has proved this method very satisfactory. Increasing number of applicants will make further refinement in selection possible and necessary. 
The importance attached to charac­ter and moral qualities need not be elaborated here because old students are fully aware of the University's standards, and none would think of recommending a boy who lacked any­thing in the way of Christian man­liness. 
Another consideration is the time for filing application. The extensive building program of the University has made it possible to house approxi­mately 2,c00 students on the campus, but the normal enrollment is in excess of 3,000. Hence it is necessary for some five hundred students to live off the campus. Off-campus students may live only in approved homes near the University. They live under regula­tions similar to those laid down for campus residents, and are under the constant supervision of the off-cam­
• pus rector. Applicants desiring to live on the campus should file their applications from eight to ten months before school opens. We have a goodly number of applications on file twelve months ahead. Rooms are assigned in the chronological order of the re­ceipt of applications. All accommoda­tions are usually reserved by the month of April preceding the Sep­tember opening of school. All quotas for the several colleges and depart­ments are normally filled by the first of August. This w^ill appear to be quite a change to the alumnus who harks back to the "good old days" when a boy could come in at any time and find plenty of room. 
These then are the things to keep in mind: The applicant must have the required fifteen units of high school work; the quality of his work must be average or better, and he should file his application as early as possible. Alumni coming in contact with pros­pective students in high school will render them a distinct service by ex­plaining the requirements so that they may fulfill them before applying for admission to college. 
Also remember that the Registrar's ofiice, as well as the Alumni office, is ever ready to render assistance by furnishing catalogs, application forms, information, or anything else that may be of help to alumni in fostering the development of future Notre Dame men. 
Around And About The Campus 
SECT STATISTICS. 
According to the compilation of the Director of Studies office, 92% of the students this year are Catholics. The remaining 244 cut of the enrollment of 3,172 are divided as follows: 62 set themselves down as Protestants, with­out specifying the denomination, 36 as Jews, 35 as ilethodists, 26 as Pres­byterians, 17 as Episcopalians,-16 as Lutherans, six as Baptists, five as Christians, three as Congregational­ists, three as Evangelists, three as Greek Orthodox, two as Apostolic, one as First Brethren, one as Christian Scientist, one as Ethical, eleven as having no religion, seven as being non-Catholics, and in the cases of nine students no religion is indicated on the census cards. 
CA.MPUS CH.^TTEK. 

The local Walter Winchell has been drawing more attention than anything else in the Scholastic. Editor Hur­ley receives weekly a column (anony­mously) of snappy scandal, entitled "Birdie Whispers." Said "Birdie Whispers" proceeds to tell all of the secrets of the students which are usually confined to mention in the sanctums of the senior halls. "The Birdie Whispprs, and how the owners of those whispered names shiver! One senior has threatened a homicidal coup-d'etat of the entire Scholastic staif if his name appears again," the author of the "Week" tells us. As it is, there's more fun guessing who the snooper is than reading what he writes. 
AHA, AHOY. 

Dillon hall made its appearance this week when the east wing of the old Engineering building was torn down, disclosing Father Haggerty's charge in all its beauty. Three hun­dred frosh are now awakened by the distinctive odors emanating from the dining hall, situated next door to the west. 
By JOHN A. KIENEE, '32' 

FLEET FROSH. 
They ran, and they danced, and they wrestled, and they sang. And one hundred and twenty-five thinly-clad barefooted freshmen became bon­afide members of the Engineers' club. They tripped lightly to the tunc of prodding exhortations and music of resounding paddles. 
GLOBE GAZERS. Dean McCarthy has been eagerly watching the work of installing the glazed aluminum globe in the lobby of the Commerce building. The globe measures eight feet in diameter and is projected on its hydraulic lift. Sur­rounding it are to be seven aluminum plaques, fittingly designed with maps of various commercial centers. Lights from the floor will be reflected on the globe, and the lobby floodlighted. 
RAINBOW RARITIES. 
Spectators at the Drake-Notre Dame track meet were privileged to watch a miniature rainbow, whose rays extended over the east side of the stadium, presumably from Angela boulevard to the othsr side of the practice field. At the end of the rain­bow lay . . . well the game ended 63-0 in favor of the Fighting Irish. 
WEATHER PROPHETS. 
Some discontent has been evi­denced at the three last games. It's been clear weather up to Friday night; and then with all its pent up fury the rainclouds have descended. But the weatherman fooled the 42,000 fans at the Notre Dame-Pitt game. It rained all Friday night but stopped before noon, when the sun came out. 
BENGAL BENEFITS. Visitors to Sorin Hall are greeted by an affable person with a little mite box in one hand; said a. p. is seek­ing a collection for the Bengal mis­sions. At this writing Father Far­ley reports that he has succeeded in filling three of the mite boxes. 
FOOTBALL FEATURES. 
The official Football Review of 1931 

will be known as the Rockne memori­
al edition. For the third successive 
year this book will be edited by the 
inimitable Joseph Petritz. Joe re­
ports that he has lined up a good 
dozen of the cream of the campus 
celebrities to contribute. In a more 
energetic tone he tells of Werner 
Laufer, and Feg Murray's proposals 
to do cartoons; Arch Ward, Mark 
Kelly, George Trevor, Frank Hering, 
'9S, Pat Flanagan (WBBM fame), 
Paul G. Hofi'man, Christy Walsh, 
Warren Brown, and Grantland Rice, 
will color the news pages with indi­
vidual stories. 
And the business manager, Ed. Britz, politely asks if we will mention that it costs $2 to alumni member.=. (No Eddie that would be advertis­ing.) 
O'BRIEN O'BLIGES. 
"The Best Short Stories of 1931," of Edward J. O'Brien, honors r,even stories of Notre Dame men. Father Leo L .Ward, C. S. C, received three asterisks on "The Threshing Ring." Scrip had six stories worthy of men­tion. Louis E.Brennan and George Mattingly Spalding copped two men­tions, Joe McCabe, '31, editor of Scrip, Joseph Clemens (a pseudonym) break into the index. 
AR.MY ATTRACTION. 
About one hundred students signify their intention of "going east" about November 26th to attend the Notre Dame-Army game. Nothing definite can be learned about the band's trip for this game. 
-MINOR SPORTS. 
To the Bengal Mission will come odd nickels and dimes when the minor sports program gets under way thf.s year, under the sponsorship of the Scholastic and four astute campus celebrities. Father O'Hara expressed his approval and whole-hearted su))­port in the matter. 
EJ.. •iitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit •••••<iiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiitia«*aiiii • ••• ••(II MlItM••••••• KillUMI J 
ATHLETICS: 
"BY JOSEPH PETRITZ, '32* ..Q 
1931 FOOTBALL-Past and Future 
The fourth game of the year usually tells whether Notre Dame has a good team or a poor one. The bril­liant 25 to 12 victory, October 24, over Pittsburgh told worlds of thing? to the football wise. 
It settled any doubt about whether Coach "Hunk" Anderson could handle the largest job in the world, that of carrying on for the late Knute Rcckne. Notre Dame, in defeatins the strongest team in the East, clicked. There was all the precision in the four Irish marches down the field for touchdowns that character­ized the great 1929 and 1930 teams. 
The shock troops looked stronger than they ever have in the past, a tribute to the line coaching ability of the new head man of football at Notre Dame and his'assistant, Junior Coach Jack Chevigny, backfield coach. 
Truly, "Hunk" Anderson may be said to be the greatest heritage Rockne left to Notre Dame, discount­ing possibly, the Notre Dame system itself. 
The 1931 Fighting Irish, with the eyes of the world focused on them more intently than ever before, opened their season by defeating Indiana, 25 to 0. Indiana had one of its best defensive teams in years, big, strong, aggressive, and imbued with plenty of spirit. But this 1931 team of Notre Dame's scored as many touchdowns as the 1930 national champions could at the p3ak of their form, and two more than the 1929 team did in its opening game against the Hoosiers. 
Touchdowns came on Joe nheeket­.ski's 70-yard touchdown run, Tom (Kitty) Gorman's pass interception and 2o-yard sprint, Carl (Stumpy) Crohin's 3o-yard dash, and a lateral pass, iMurphy to Schwartz, good for 11 yards. There was only one con­certed march down the field as is to be expected in opening games. 
The Northwestern game the follow­ing week at Soldier field before 75,­000 persons, was supposed to be the real test of Notre Dame's 1931 back­field. Rain, ankle-deep mud, and con­sequent atrocious footing, showed nothing at all, nothing on the score­board for either team and no yard­stick to measure how Notre Dame this year compares with teams of the past. The Irish outgained Northwestern, six first downs to three; they piled up twice as many yards from scrimmage. 
While they fumbled ten times to Northwestern's nine, they had the ball twice as much. 
There are still those who say Rockne would have won that game. They can't convince themselves that "Hunk" Anderson has arrived anj that it was impossible for either team to play good ball on such a field. They point to the Army game of 1930 as the proof. Didn't Rockne win that game under the same conditions? 
With all due credit to Rockne's genius, we can agree with an affirma­tive answer to this question, but we can't say that even Rockne would have won the Northwestern game at Chicago. The Army game was won on a 64-yard run by Marchy Schwartz, not on any trick plays, not by pulling a new super-hero out of the air, not on any stroke of strategic genius. Schwartz's off-tackle run in that game has been used hundreds of times by a score of Notre Dame left halfbacks. It was sti-aight football. Rockne was wise enough to know that straight football was the only kind on a muddy field. "Kick and let the opponent fumble," Rockne used to tell his quar­terbacks. 
And that's exactly what Anderson did. Schwartz's kicking, from his own goal line much of the time, for a 47­yard average with a ball that weighed a ton was a feature of the game. Schwartz was the greatest gainer of the day with an average of five yards a play. Perhaps with Carideo and Brill to block for him, he might have got away. But you can't develop Carideos and Brills in one season. .A.nd remember this: the only strategy to use in that game was line plays. On passes, the receivers couldn't squeeze the ball or it would jump out of their hands; if they caught the ball "soft" its weight carried it through their grasp. 
We say Anderson ran his team exactly as his beloved predecessor would have run it. Two great scoring 
TH E SPECIALISTS 
Jesse Harper, Frederick, '28, Voedvich, '28, Anderson, Cbevignij, 'Jl—Varsiti/ Coaches 
machines were stuck in the mud and a dry field would have given both coaches a chance to open up with their fireworks. 
Ossie Solem brought one of his strongest Drake teams in history to Notre Dame the next week and saw his hopes crushed before the advances of 41 Notre Dame first, second, third, and fourth varsity team stars. Now there are those who say that Rockne wouldn't have let his team win by a 63 to 0 score, that he would have kept the score down. 
Our defense for "Hunk" is that he couldn't keep the score down. He couldn't send in the second team and tell them "Lay down, now, and I'll put you on the varsity next week." And evei-y one of those 41 players was out for blood that day, fighting to show "Hunk" that he ought to stay with the varsity or be advanced to the first eteam, as the case might have been. This game proved to us that Notre Dame has the greatest reser\-e strength in its history. 
Further proof came the following week when the varsity regulars slashed their way to the victory over Pitt which left no doubt as to Notre Dame's superiority over Jock Suther­land's veteran Panther eleven. The game uncovered George (Mink) Mel­inkovich, the ninth fullback to cavort for Notre Dame since Savoldi with­drew. "Mink" is a contraction of "Melink" which is a contraction of Melinkovich. George is from Tooele, Utah. The name is pronounced to— things where George comes from, judging at least from the nonchalance with which he picked off Marchy's long pass for the first touchdown, and flung himself catapulting over two of the best lines in the country, once to score and several other times to pick up the yard or two needed for a first down. 
Now for the "future" part of this story. Ocober 31 will see Notre Dame at Pittsburgh against Carnegie Tech, the old thorn in the side of the Irish. Judge Wally Steffen has a green team —he had the same kind in 1926 when Carnegie won, 19 to 0, to ruin Notre Dame's national championship hopes, and in 1928 when his battling Scotch wiped out 25 years of Cartier field tradition with a 27 to 7 victory. Car­negie lost to Purdue (scheduled so Tech could see the Notre Dame sys­tem, we presume), and Washington and Jefferson. They have defeated only Georgia Tech and do not look dangerous. But they didn't in 1926, either. 
Pennsylvania, since giving the game back to the department of physical education, has won all its games, in­cluding its Oct. 24 clash with Wiscon­sin in which it romped to a 27 to 13 upset. The East is sitting up and taking notice of the Quakers' veteran team, instructed by Harvey J. Har­man. Penn furnishes the attraction at Notre Dame stadium Nov. 7. The crowd should surpass the 42,000 Pitts­burgh turnout so get your tickets now. 
November 14 finds the team at Bal­timore to play Navy's revamped team with Edgar (Eip) Miller, '25, at the helm. The Middies are steering a more or less indifferent course now in their first year of the Notre Dame system, but they still have plenty of spirit and should be at .their peak for this game. Miller, as you know, was one of the Seven Mules who cleared the way for a certain group of Horse­men. He is being assisted by one Christy Flanagan and one John O'Brien. 
Howard Jones brings his veteran Southern California team to Notre Dame stadium (not Chicago, as many seem to believe) November 21 for an­other of those classic Trojan-Irish struggles. The Coast lads want to 

'ell- a, with the accent on 'ell. This QUADRUPLET CRASHERS seems to be the way they feel about 
iV. D. Tackles—Messrs, Kozac, Kurth, Culver and Krause 
get even with Notre Dame, not only for what Bucky O'Connor and the boys did at Los Angeles last year, but for the licking Slip Madigan's St. Mary's team handed them in their first game this year. Joe Lopker's program cover alone is worth the tariif at the gate. There are still many good seats left for this classic. 
The Army game, in which past per­formances are nullified, takes place at Col. Ruppert's Yankee stadium Nov­ember 28. That's all we'll say about this game. If you have your tickets, you'll read the papers for the rest of the dope. If you haven't, there's no use saying anything because all the tickets were gone weeks ago. 
Q.. 
"H 

1931-32 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Dec i—Kalamazoo here. Dec. 8—Adrian here. 
HANDLING THE RAW MATERIAL Dec. 12—Indiana iiere. 
Carberry, Kaplan, '-11, Kline, '21, Parisien—Freshman Coaches 
Dec. 15—Purdue here. Dec- 21—Northwestern here. Dec. Ul—Northwestern at Evanston. Jan. 5—St. Thomas (St. Paul) her»!. Confirm N. D. Men Jan. 9—Michigan State at E. Lansinfr. Jan. 12—Marquette here. In the confirmation class at St. twenty years in the ministi-y, the last 
Jan. 16—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia. Joseph's church. South Bend, Friday three years of which were spent in Jan. 23—Pittsburgh here. night, October 16, the Right Reverend Oxford, England. He now teaches Feb. 1—Iowa here. Bishop confirmed Professors John history at Notre Dame. 
Feb. 6—PittsburBh at Pittsbumh. Staunton and Thomas B. Campbell, In the same confirmation class was Feb. 10—Syracuse here. both recent converts from the Protes­Benjamin Alexander, one of Notre 
Feb. 13—Western Reser\*e at Cleveli^|id. 
tant Episcopal church, in which they Dame's centers on the football team. 
Feb. 19—Butler at Indianapolis. 
had been clergymen for years. Pro­His sponsor was Tommy Yarr, the 
Feb. 23—Michijran State here. 
fessor Staunton is now 63 years old, first team center and captain. Alex­
Feb. 27—Army here. 
and teaches philosophy at Notre 
Mar. -1—Maniuette at Milwaukee. ander was baptized last Easter, the 
Dame. Professor Campbell was re­
Mar. II—Butler here. day after the late Rockne's funeral. 
ceived into the Catholic Church in 
Adam Walsh, '25, was his sponsor in 
Rome two months ago after serving 
Q.. baptism. 
PROPOSED NEW CONSTITUTION 
(Continued from Pajie -13) 
SECTIOX 3. MEETINGS 

The District Governor and Lieutenant District Governor shall meet annually immediately before the annual meetins of the Association at the Universitj-. or any time at the call of the President or by a petition siffncd by any six of said District Governors or by a petition sijmod by any three members of the Board of Directors. 
ARTICLE V. Dues SECTION 1. Everj* active associate member (except he be a member of a religious order) shall pay annually in advance to the Secretary of this Association such dues as may be fixed by the Board of Directors. The Board shall also determine the portion thereof that shall be designated as the subscription price for the Xotrc Dame Alinnnns. 
SECTION 2. The Board of Directors shall have the right at any time, by resolution, to take any reasonable and appropriate action as to members delinnucnt in their dues and as to the retention of their names on the subscription list of the .-l/u»iiitts; but such action shall not take effect as to any member until he has had at least thirty days' notice thereof. 
ARTICLE VL Expenses 

SECTION 1. All authorized expenses and obligations incurred by the Association, its office, and its officers, shall be paid by the Treasurer from the funds of this Association. *^ 
ARTICLE VII. Order of Business 
SECTION 1. The order of business at any meeting of this Association may be fixed by By-laws or by Resolutions of the Board of Directors, except as herein otherwise provided or required. 
SECTION 2. The admission to membership of any new members at any annual meeting of this Association shall be deferred until after the election of officers is completed, and the result announced; and the new officers shall assume their respective offices from and at the time of the induction of the new members. 
SECTION 3. Ten \-otes shall constitute a quorum at any meeting. SECTION 4. Rules of Order. Roberts* Rules of Order shall be the parliamcntar>- authority at all meetings of the Association. 
SECTION 5. Whatever publication or notice is called for in the Notre Dame Atuninus hereunder, like publication or notice may be effected. with like validity, by mailing such statements or notices, in printed form, to any and all members who would be entitled to receive the 
Xotrc Dame Alumnus. 

ARTICLE VIIL Amendments 
.SECTION 1. These By-laws, or any of them, may be amended, changed, added to, or repealed by a vote of two-thirds of those present and entitled to vote, at any meeting duly called, notified and held for that purpose. JoiiX COSTELLO, '12, Chairman. 
TIMOTHY GALVIN, *16 
PAUL CVSTN-ER, '2S 

ISlMiiimtiiimnininnnnmiiiiiiiiimtii ••iiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiMiiMinHiiittMiMiiiuiiMiiMiiMiitiiMiitiiitiiitiiitttit iiiiiMiiMimmip| 
An Open Letter From Pat Manion 
I  October 27, 1931.  |  
I  Dear Jim:  |  
1  last v/eek I followed the joint suggestion of yourself and "Prexy" Hayes  I  
I  and swung around the Eastern circle of Notre Dame Clubs. Swinging always makes  I  
I  me a bit dizzy, and this is undoubtedly why I was a trifle unsteady when I left  |  
I  Pittsburgh—home of Notre Dame Western Pennsylvanians and last stop for the  |  
I  Vice-Presidential merry-go-round. From start to finish I was impressed with the  |  
I  persistence of the old "fighting spirit" of Notre Dame—but seriously, Jim,  I  
I  four or five bouts in one week is a large order, even for such a seasoned and  I  
I  thoroughly conditioned gladiator as your humble servant. I hope that in the  |  
I  future you v/ill soften the schedule by providing a few "set-ups" as somebody is  j  
I  said to have done for Prime Camera before his Sharkey fight. As it v/as, I natu­ j  
I  rally and necessarily came home wearing some rather noticeable scars of the  |  
1  battle.  i  
I  My first stop was Buffalo. You really should do something about Buffalo,  I  
I  Jim. Those boys are downright tractable. Nobody voiced a single reason why  I  
I  living Endovment should not be supported and half a dozen in the audience blushed  |  
I  a deep crimson when I was so impolitic as to suggest that perhaps there v/ere  |  
I  some there present v/ho were guilty of dues delinquency. Of course, the formal­ |  
I  ity of the proceeding may have been responsible for the woeful lack of spirit  |.  
I  because the Vice-President wore a dinner coat at Buffalo. By the time said v. p.  i  
I  reached Pittsburgh he v/as in the market for a suit of armor.  |  
I  Gordon Bennett arranged the party for Joe Shea's Buffalo branch of the  j  
I  Statler Hotels, and as Joe was busy most of that afternoon and evening shov/ing  I  
I  Mrs. Herbert Hoover around the place, the Vice-President felt that in justice to  |  
I  Joe something very special should be arranged—hence the "boiled bosom.". As luck  I  
I  would have it, a photographer from the Buffalo Courier-Express caught us just  I  
I  asvie were going into the dining room, and the v/hole thing is'now a matter of  I  
1  pictorial record. By v/ay of parenthesis , let me tell you that Jay 1. (Biffy) lee  I  
I  is off to a great start in his chairmanship of the Rockne Memorial drive for that  I  
I  section. He was persuaded to tell the meeting just what had been done to date, and  i  
I  if Biffy does not get his quota v/ith the work and the organization that was evi­ |  
I  denced by his report, then the Rockne Memorial isn't going to be any larger than  |  
I  a Bell Telephone booth. Hank Burns v/as in Erie and sent a wire expressing his  I  
1  regrets. After Biffy and I had finished speaking, the session went into a  I  
I  "committee of the whole". Gene Oberst v/as there, bigger and better than ever.  |  
I  He is coach of Canisius College in Buffalo where Emmett Sweeney is teaching his­ I  
I  tory. Vince Hanrahan—"best seller" in Biffy lee's insurance organization—  |  
I  came in to say a v/ord about the good old days. By the way, Vince missed the  i  
I  speech, so it will be necessary for you to mail him the lieterature direct. And  i  
I  send Gord Bennett a vote of thanks too. It' s no cinch to muster a quorum of Notre  I  
i  Dame men on such short notice in a city as big as Buffalo. Now if you had called  |  
I  the meeting across the river in Canada, it might have been different.  |  
I  Besides those mentioned the follov/ing were present and asked to be remerr­ =  
i  bered: Robert Burns, Martin Ryan, Franklin O'Mara, Fred Pralatowski, John  I  
I  Uebbing, Joe Shea, George Doyle, Tom Rogers, Jack Burns. Martin Travers, Ed  I  
I  Kempf, Francis Hanssell.  I  
i  I steamed into Albany on the afternoon of the 16th and contacted with John  1  
I  V/. Forbing of v/hom I had heard much and was consequently delighted to meet. Mr.  I  
I  Forbing, as you know, makes aspirin tablets out at the Bayer plant, but he does  |  
I  not impress you that way at all. Aspirin is positively the last thing one thinks  1  

Qitt«*iiiiii)iiM(«iiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiii(iii)iiiiiMiiiiiiiitititMiiii(aiiiiiiiiiiitiiii)ttiiiii)iiiiiii«iiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiiiMittMttiiiMiitni*iiiMiiMii*iaw<iiiiiitiiiiiitMi«iitit))iii)itaiiiiiiiittitiitiit 
pltiiitnimtmitiiiiiitiimiitmin 
i of in the course of an evening v/ith Mr. Forbing—in fact I didn't think about | I aspirin until the follov/ing morning. The Notre Dame men rallied at the Forbing ' | I hom.e, and from there we motored to Schenectady where John J. (Jack) Huether | I pulls important v/ires for the General Electric Company. Jack had charge of the I [ meeting and gathered a 98% attendance. Joe Carey told us all about his plans for | f the Rockne Memorial, and we had an interesting Round Table discussion about you | j and everything that pertains to your office until far into the night. I 
I It was good to see Tom. Bollard again, who is architect for the construe-| I tion department of New York State's official Building Commission. Naturally | I therefore Tom led off with constructive suggestions, and as a result of our | I mutual exchanges I believe that Albany is a lot closer to your office 'than it I I was formerly. The banquet was held in a cozy place and the arrangements com-| I mittee overlooked nothing. C. L. Touhey, class of-'26, nov/prominent practic-| I ing attorney of Albany, took your delegate to his hotel by the longest possible | I route, and even then said delegate v/as genuinely sorry to arrive. f 
I Follov/ing is a list of those who ansv/ered the roll call at the Schenec-I i tady dinner: John J. Huether, Al Roche, Walter A. O'Brien, George Shamon, Wil-| I liam F. Kearney, Jr., S. Arthur Durbin, Joseph J. Horan, John J. Meehan, T. J. | i Connolly, R. H. Greene, C. L. Touhey, F. L. Duquette, Ronald J. McNamee, Walter | I K. Ludtke, Valentine A. O'Donohue, Tom Dollard, Frank D. Ott, Joseph Carey, | I John W. Forbing, Brother Vitus, and John Campbell. | 
i Time was limited in New York City, but the perennially genial Hugh 0'Don-| j r.ell opened the brackets in his busy schedule, and asa consequence I had a de-| I lightful visit with him. Jimmy Hayes took m.e up to the tip top of the Empire | I State Building where we looked over and talked over the situation in the metrop-| i olis. I can't begin to tell you everything that Jim told me, but he has promised | I to write j'ou a letter, which I cautioned him to v/rap carefully in cellophane. i 
1 At Philadelphia I was met and sponsored by President Clarence (Jesse) | I James of the Philadelphia Notre Dame Club. Jesse yielded some tim.e to Mr. I I Flintoff of the Rockne Memorial Foiondation, and-then Harry Stuhldreher told us | I about the filming of "The Spirit of Notre Dame". I am glad that he did not for-i I get to add an admonition that theaudience remain and listen to what I had to I f say because Harry isa man of considerable importance in the Quaker City and the | I suggestion v/as undoubtedly responsible for the patient courtesy that the boys | 
i displayed while I v/ent through my paces. "Chief" Neeson was conspicuous by his | I absence, but he left word that he would head me off in Pittsburgh where he was f i attending some sort of a convention. When I finished, Tom Conley responded to I I a toast, and the meeting adjourned, or some of it at least, to the Loughran-Risko | I fight where the enormous prestige of Messrs". Stuhldreher and Hunsinger secured f I ringside seats. We were so close in fact that at one'stage of the proceedings I | I felt that Mr. Risko v/as going to accept Mr. Loughran's invitation to back off i I the platform and sit down in my lap. | f Among those present at the Philadelphia meeting were the follov/ing: | I Hov/ard Thomas, John T. Neeson, Harry Francis, Chas. Dougherty, Walter Hollis. . | f Mr. Flintoff, Ed. Hunsinger, Harry Stuhldreher, J. G. Cavanaugh, Ray McNally, | I Joseph Farrell, Thos. Conley. W. C. Degan, J. T. Degan, Dr..Johnson, and C. J. | f James. | i And the next day I v/ent to Pittsburgh. Jim 0'Toole introduced me as the i i "goodv/ill ambassador". Whereupon Lou V/alsh interrupted v/itha request that in | I the course of my remarks I explain why he gets no official communications from | I your office in spite of the fact that you know perfectly v/ell that he lives at | I 1749 Grafton Boulevard and that he graduated gloriously from the University. i ' 
i (Continued on Page 64) | 
RJiit tiittiiaiitiitiiiiiiiitiDiiii * t iiiiiiiiii I iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii I I t iiiiiiiiti itiii tHUtuMniimunniMHUiiiiiimMniiiiiilSI 
The rossi bilities of An Alu mni Office 


In Which That Social Center of the N. D. Campus Is Exposed And Its Personnel Glorified. 
Alumni, for the most part, are hopelessly uninformed concerning the more or less mechanical features of the Alumni Associate.n. iWany were graduated before there was an Alum­ni Office. Many who v.-ero graduated since the establishment of the Office have never visited it. Tlie ALUM­NUS purposes to outline a few of the functions of the Association xhis year, beginning with the Alumni Office itself. 
Situated in the Administration Building on the campus, main rear, visible the moment you enter the front door, the Alumni Office is the capital of the alumni world. 
It should be the headquarters of all alumni who come to the campus, a center for inquiry and acquaintance. Many alumni who come to Notre Dame never come near the Office. The Alumni Secretary has many du­ties outside the Office but somone, himself or the two young lady assist­ants, is on the job from 9 to 5 daily. 
The campus has grown. The alum­nus who used to enjoy a solitary hunt for familiar figures or rendez­vous can tire himself out now long before he has covered the points of interest. It is the pleasure of the Alumni Office to inform the infre­quent visitor of changes and, when­ever possible, to show him around. 
The -A.lumni Office is the center of contact with the faculty. .A.lumni and non-alumni faculty members fre­quently stop in for a visit, though many alumni faculty members are entirely too reluctant to intrude. It is from these happy visits that the Alunmi Office derives a great deal of its information concerning academic policies and the activities of former students. 
Students who visit the Office are a particular asset in the development of the -Association. A. boy who be­comes familiar with the workings of the Association while in school makes a far more useful graduate than the fellow who has to become a "corre­spondence school" alumnus. The Office welcomes every student contact with­in reason. 
The .\lumni Office is the source of alumni lists. The Office maintains an alphabetical file of alumni and a geographical duplicate file. Class and Club lists are prepared and maintained as time permits and the 
Office last year installed its own ad­dressing machinery for the -ALUM­NUS and other literature. Everj' alumnus is therefore listed in the Alumni Office five times. And when time and money permit, there will be in the files a separate folder for every alumnus for whom we have any data, letters, pictures, clippings, etc. The alumni whose addresses are known now number about 5,500. The lists in the Alumni Office there­fore number 27,500 names and ad­dresses. In addition the Office main­tains to the best of its present abil­ity the names and addresses of non-graduates. There are in the present active files in this classification some 5,000 names, and an even larger number in the unclaimed. The fu­ture Office will develop this valuable list through greater mailing facilities and through the Clubs. These names are also filed by alphabetical and geographical classification so that they actually number 10,000 active and some 15,000 unclaimed. 
The Alumni Office is the editorial office of the ALUMNUS. Here is gathered the material from the cor­ners of the world for the pages of the magazine. 
The Office receives daily from two to twenty pieces of first class mail, approximating 3,500 letters a year. In addition to answering this corre­spondence, the Office addresses an­nually 50,000 envelopes for the ALUMNUS; 25,000 notices for alum­ni dues; 15,000 notices for Living Endowment; 5,500 Class letters; and during the past year addressed some 25,000 mailings of interest to alumni but not directly connected with the Office itself. 
The Office receives the Alumni magazines of 75 other associations, which are kept accessible and dis­played during the year in a magazine rack in the Office. 
Pictures of interest and signifi­cance to the -Association are kept in the Office, some on the walls and hundreds in a scrap book. 
A complete file of the Domes and a file of the Scholasticn, including the 1S67 Vol. 1, is preserved in the Office. 
In addition to the mailing ma­chinery, the Office uses a mimeo­graph and multigraph maci'ine. 
The .\lumni Office is the source of information for the University ad­ministration concerning alunmi. The Office telephone rings daily from one to a dozen times for information con­cerning a degree or an address or an activity. 
Similarly, the Office is the contact with the outside world for the Asso­ciation. Newspapers, magazines, ad­vertising concerns, individuals, send requests to the Office for lists and biographical data on alumni. (It is pertinent here to state that the lists of alumni are used only wnen the project directly or indirectly furthers the interests of the alumni them­selves, and the list has been refused many times during the past year.) 
The -Alumni Office is the clearing house for the national officers of the Association, the national committees of the -Association, the officers of the Classes and the Clubs. Attention to these contacts is no little feature of the annual program. 
Now—there is a lot of paint on the above canvas. But to spread it ar­tistically is a job for the future. With all of the work outlined above, the -Alumni Office is just beginning to function properly. 
More alumni are visiting it. 
More students become acquainted with it. 
More mail comes in daily. 
More faculty members are familiar with it. 
More calls for information are be­ing received by it. 
More names and addresses are be­ing added constantly to both gradu­ate and non-graduate files. 
More material comes in for the ALUMNUS. 
More pictures and "relics" of alum­ni and the school are being added to the collection. 
But—^forgive this necessary moral —how do you expect to achieve re­sults in the Office, the center of the -Association, without support from the majority of the members? 
-As it stands now, our possibilities for achievement loom larger than ever before. Our facilities for real­izing them increase so slowly as to embarrass the officers of the -Associa­tion, particularly the -Alumni Secre­tary who is in charge of the -Alumni Office. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
01* llllllltllllllllltlKII 
»B 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
Qu 
Clarence "Pat" Manion, '22, pro­promoting any specific project. He supposedly accompany a salary and 
fessor of law at the University and took with him no particular message. office space under the Dome, can take vice-president of the Alumni Associa­He went as an alumnus, elected by the field and exchange unbiased tion, inaugurated a new program of alumni, to represent the alumni in views with the alumni. Prof. Man-the Association with a trip East dur­the Association. He listened as well ion's trip achieved this end. ing the week of October 14-21, dur­as talked. He brought back ideas as It is early to estimate the good ing which time he visited meetings of well as left ideas with his audiences. 
that will come from the experiment. 
the Notre Dame Clubs of Buffalo, 
The Alumni Secretary, between the But it is safe to say that the Asso­
Albany, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. alleged Scylla of the University view­ciation will pursue the policy of hav­The trip was partly in the nature point and the Charybdis of the many ing its officers visit the Clubs from of an experiment, but the enthusiasm individual ills that beset the scattered time to time. and the co-operation of the four constituency, would like to be so Buffalo, Albany, Philadelphia and Clubs visited, dissipated any doubts received; but in the natural order of Pittsburgh deserve special thanks the administration may have had con­things is not, and probably will not for the manner in which they made cerning the wisdom of official visits. be. It is therefore a step well to the arrangements for Prof. Manion on Professor Manion represented the fore when another officer of the Asso­such short notice from the Alumni Alumni Association. He was not ciation without the inhibitions that Office. 
_ i^ -<"-'-^ ."!••• »>:'.i 
rr 
H 
^"^ 1
";•• 'Mi 

It 
ff
>^ 

<!#>!> ^ ^f >^ V m f f T 
^ %s> 
4" 
^^ 

Prof. Manion at Buffalo—Others in the group are: Gordon Betinett, Gene Oberst, Jay Lee, Marty Ryan, Dr. Robert Bums, Joe Shea, Frank Hanssel, Jack Bums and Frank O'Meara. 
BALTIMORE. 51,000,000 Knute Rockne memorial BUFFALO. field house planned for Notre Dame. 
Tom Carfagno writes from Balti­The following clipping from the more that the Lord Baltimore Hotel The committee is comprised of Buffalo Times gives an account of John W. Forbing, of Albany, club 
there has arranged to have a booth the very successful meeting of the in the lobby and someone in attend­Buffalo Club with Prof. Manion, a re­
president; E. A. Burban, of Schenec­tady; J. B. Carey, of Albany; Jerome 
ance to register alumni that come to port confirmed by a splendid letter the game. This booth will be from Gordon Bennett, who also gave 
a Connolly, of Rensselaer; John Hue-
clearing house for the Baltimore lo­the occasion excellent publicity in His 
ther, of Schenectady; John Meehan, 
cation of out-of-town alumni and is a paper the Courier-Express.
of Schenectady; Thomas V. Dollard, 
splendid arrangement for this par­of Albany; Edward Eckert, of Al­A plea for a higher type of unity ticular center, Tom is of
 as one a bany; John Rodriguez, of Schenec­among the Notre Dame Alumni clubs very small group of alumni residents. 
tady and James Duquette, of Albany. 
throughout the country was made by Prof. Clarence Manion, vice president 
November will mark the opening 
of the Notre Dame Alumni associa­CAPITAL DISTRICT (ALBANY) of the nation wide campaign for tion, in an address to members of 
funds to erect the field house. 
In addition to entertaining Prof. the local Notre Dame club in Hotel Manion at a most interesting and It was announced that the Capital Statler last night. well attended meeting on Friday District group will place a Knute 
Prof. Manion is also a member of night, October 16, the following clip­Rockne memorial football trophy in the law faculty at Notre Dame. 
ping from an Albany paper indicates competition this year for Catholic Prof. pointed 
the status quo of the upper reaches High School teams in the section.  Manion out that 
while Notre Dame men individually 
of the Hudson: The regular schedule games between never fail to co-operate in the inter­
Cathedral Academy and Vincentian 
ests of the alma mater, better results Members of the Capital District Institute of Albany, and La Salle In­stitute of Troy will determine the can be obtained by cohesive effort. 
University of Notre Dame Club have named a committee to outline the "At present, Notre Dame is riding 
winner, with two points being award­ed for a victory and one for a tie. 
club's share in the drive for the the crest of a popularity wave, the result of brilliant achievements on the part of its students as well ns athletic teams," Professor Manion declared. "However, a natural reac­tion is certain to set in sooner or later, and that is what we of the Alumni association must prepare for. 
"The only successful way we can combat this natural reaction is to fol­low the rule of the great emancipa­tor, Abraham Lincoln, who said that in imion there is strength." 
One of Professor Slanion's sugges­tions for the strengthening of the alumni association was the appoint­ment of regional directors whose task it would be to supen'ise the activi­ties of the clubs in his district. 
Local Notre Dame graduates ex­pressed a favorable attitude toward this suggestion, agreeing that unified effort on the part of the alumni as­sociation and school itself will enable the South Bend institution to hold its present high .status. 
Professor Manion also paid ilowery tribute to the late Knute Iv. Rockne. 
"Rockne was more than .1 professor and football coach," Professor jHan­ion said. "He was one of the school's vital mechanisms. Rockne was nort of a consulting doctor insofar .is the school's minor ills were concerned, and his passing means much more than the mere loss of a football coach. 
Jay L. "Biffy" Lee, teammate of Rockne, spoke briefly and reported on his working for the Rockne Mem­orial drive. 
Gordon Bennett, president of the local Notre Dame Alumni club, pre­sided at the meeting, and introduced the speaker. Eugene Oberst, Canisius college football coach and a student of Rockne, was at the speaker's table. 
Among others present were Dr. Robert Bums, John Bums, Henr>­Bums, Martin Ryan, Martin Travers, Emmett Sweeney, Joe Shea and Frank Hanssel. 
CLEVELAND 
We started the summer with a Stag Party at Campbell's Beach on Lake Erie, where we had a great turn out. 
We ended the summer with a golf­ing partj' at Dover Bay Country Club which everyone described as a perfect party. Sufiice it to say, those who were not there missed some­thing, I am enclosing the circular announcing the party which will fur­nish an idea of the program. Prac­tically all of those present were -n the spirit of song, but the leading quartet was composed of John But­ler, formerly of the Glee Club, Gene Kane, Billy Gibbons and Fred Joyce, who were assisted at various times by Harry Miller, Billy Ryan, Joe Toolan and various others, including myself. 
Joe Smith left early to make some speeches in connection with his cam­paign for his re-election as Munici­pal Judge of the City of Cleveland. John Weisend is also running for Municipal Judge of the City of Cleve­land and left early with Bill Krider, who is assisting him in his campaign. The others also left early—but not the same day. 
T am enclosing a circular which we have just mailed from which you will note that the weekly luncheons will be resumed beginning Monday, Oct. 5th, and will be held in the Subway at Fisher-Rohr's Restaurant, 1792 B. 9th St. Chuck Rohr has arranged a special room in the basement with Notre Dame atmosphere which we have nicknamed the "Subway." 
You will also note that each Satur­day afternoon during the football season those who do not attend the games will gather in the Subway to listen to the radio reports. 
Joseph Moran, '27, I leam is at St. Mary's Seminary, Cleveland. George Ken-er, Sec. 
DES MOINES 
At a meeting of the Des Moines Notre Dame club on October 6, new ofScers were elected .as Jollows: Earl Walsh, '22, President; James C. Shaw, '22, Vice-President; Charles 
H. Lynch, '28, Secretary-Treasurer, 
Plans were made for organizing a working plan for the purpose of ob­taining contributions for the Rockne Memorial Field House. 
Mr, Walsh met with Father Mul­caire and committee a short time ago, and he outlined very thoroughly the plans of the key organization at Notre Dame. 
While our club in Des Moines 2s rather small, we plan on doing our share toward raising funds for this Worth-while cause. 
Another meeting will be held on October 12, and we plan on having a banquet October 17, in accordance with the suggestion laid down by Father Mulcaire. 
We will keep you advised from time to time •what progress we are making, 
Charles H, Lynch, Sec, 
FORT WAYNE 

For fear that the newly-elected officers of the Notre Dame Club and the city chairman of the Knute K. Rockne Memorial Drive, may them­selves be too modest, I am giving you the latest news concerning them. 
Officers elected at an annual meet­ing, October 15, at Les Logan's store were as follows: Frank J. Gilmartin, '01, president; Jerome J. Miller, '17, vice-president; F. Leslie Logan, '23, treasurer and Robert Eggeman, '30, secretary. Harry W. Flannerj-, '23, was chosen as the fifth governor. Those thrown out on their ears for neglect of duty, incompetence and allied reasons, were: Edward T. Gil-martin, president; Harry G. Hogan, vice-president; Clifford B. Ward, sec­retary and Edmund Bresnahan, gov­ernor. My own weak showing in the rural precincts is attributable to the fact that campaign funds were ex­ceedingly difficult to raise. 
John W. Eggeman, '00, addressed the club on the subject of the Rockne Memorial Drive in which he happens to be a district chairman. Harry G. Hogan, president of the Dime Sav­ings and Trust Bank, was the choice of the new board of governors for the job of citj' chairman in the Memori­ial Drive. With his experienced leadership and untiring energy .serv­ing as an example, the campaign here is as good as accomplished. 

Through the good graces of our sports editor and the genial Mr. Petritz, I saw the Drake game and man'elled at the team. Unless the boys become too confident in nome game and let a few touchdowns be scored on them before they wake up, it's difficult to see how they will be beaten this season. 
I don't know how it would work in other communities but the club here has had considerable success with a series of stag affairs. In spite of their collegiate training, there .-eems to be a goodly number of alumni here who like to play bridge, poker or what have you. We have the affairs at homes of members and while prob­ably little has been accomplished in solving world problems, much has been achieved in the way of making life more pleasant. 
Now that Bob Eggeman is the new secretary and Harry Flannery, a gov­ernor, you should be well supplied with news of Fort Wayne Club activi­ties in the future. 
Cliff Ward. 
KANSAS CITY. 
The Editor was burning the eight 

p. m. oil the night before the Pitt game when his overtime drew divid­ends in a visit from Maurice Carroll, Ed McGrath and Hugh Prendergast of the Kansas City Club. Things are humming there with N. D. activities. Doc Nigro has taken the Rockne boys to the Kansas Aggies-Kansas foot­ball game, where Larry "Moon" Mul­lins of the '30 team had some of the old Rockne system in evidence. 
They also attended a pre-view of "The Spirit of Notre Dame" "A-ith 3,000 other alumni and friends of Notre Dame. Joe Savoldi was a de­cent visitor in Kansas City and "Moon" MuUins comes in frequently from Manhattan. Harold Haynes, former Juggler editor and play­wTight, is on a 4-months trip around the world. Kansas City is going strong on the Rockne Memorial, a meeting was scheduled for October 27 at the K. C. Athletic Club. With Maurice Carroll ha%'ing submitted the plans being used in the literature for the Memorial, interest in Kansas City is all the more lively. 
LOS ANGELES. 

Larry Moore writes from Los .-Vn­geles that on last August 1 the Club entertained the fellows appearing in "The Spirit of Notre Dame" at a stag at Daley's. October 1, the Club enjoyed a pre-view of the picture at the Universal studios with Carl Laemmle, Russell Mack, Lew Ayres and a few others as guests of the Club at a banquet preceding the .showing. 
Paramount, Larry writes, is finish­ing the screening of Frank Wallace's "Stadium" under the title of "Touch­down." Tom Lieb and Manfred Vezie have been helping in the technical di­recting. Richard Arlen and Jack Oakie star. 
Larry had seen Vince McNally just after the So. Cal. game .ind Vince was naturally pleased over the St. Mary's victory. 
LOUISLA.NA-MISSISSIPPI. 

That things are busy in the Levee country is evident from the foUo-iving clipping from the New Orleans Morn­ing Tribune: 
Old grads of Notre Dame got to­gether here last night and talked over "old days" and good times when Knute Rockne led the Micks to vic­tories on the football field. 
There were 30 of them, and they gathered at -Arnaud's restaurant. It was the first seasonal meeting of the Notre Dame Alumni association. 
The oldest of the New Orleans alumni, .Patrick E. Burke, the presi­dent, was the principal speaker. Talk of George Gipp, Jumping Joe Savol­di, Carideo and the inimitable "Four Horsemen," Stuhldreher, Miller, Lay-den and Crowley, ran high, but Pat Burke eclipsed them all by his intim­ate acquaintance with the gridiron deeds of Ed Prudhomme of Natchi­toches, Louisiana, the great star of Notre Dame's first football team. 
C. A. Sporl, Jr., secretary of the association, delivered a welcome ad­dress to a group of priests and brothers who besides being alumni of Notre Dame were his ex-teachers. 
The Club enjoyed a private show­ing of "The Spirit of Notre Dame" on October 23 at the Orpheum Thea­tre, with Governor Long and the Mayor present, together with sports 
•\vriters and football coaches of the New Orleans area. 
NEW JERSEY. 

All is quiet on the Jersey :"ront. Football as usual is the talk of nil 
N. D. men you meet and the boys are waiting as usual for the eastern invasion. At this month's meeting Bill Carter appointed B. Kernan Win­gerter as chairman of a committee to get together and co-operate with the Metropolitan Club on the running of their special to the Navy game at Baltimore. Jersey e.xpects to send a quota of 250 on this trip. The meet­ing was well attended, about 35 put­ting in an appearance. Bert Daniels was presented with a handsome traveling bag from the Club in appre­ciation for his conduct of the prexy's job last year. 
Joe Nulty, Sec. 

Bill Carter writes in addition that 
N. D. spirit is hot in New Jersey, with a nine-day showing of "The Spirit of Notre Dame." He expects a petition from there to move the University to Newark. Joe Byrne was out here for the Pitt game and may have presented it. Richard "Red" Smith is coaching at Seton Hall with Bob Shields and Jack Lavelle, Bill says. Red also made a red-hot debut \vith the N. Y. Giants football team October 17. Bill has a cousin among the many Jerseyites at N. D. for the first time this year. Bill says his newspaper is so strong for N. D. that a Jewish sports writer is speaking at Communion breakfasts on the Fight­ing Irish and is grooming a son for 
N. D. 
The New Jersey boys want to nee the Band come down with the team for the Army game. 
NEW YORK. 

"Dear Jim: 
"The Notre Dame club is beginning to fall into its usual autumnal activ­ity with genuine enthusiasm. With the forthcoming events both near at hand, and a few miles away, the boys are becoming gladdened by the fact that they can personally participate in the various activities of the Uni­sersity, athletically and in the Field House drive. 
"We are thoroughly organized for the games. The Navy game at Balti­more, November 14, will be featured by special trains run by the nicely co-ordinated clubs of New York and New Jersey, via the Baltimore and Ohio R. R. It certainly is great to have Joe Byrne and his good friends from Jersey working with us to make this trip a success. Full details for all Eastern alumni and their friends can be obtained from the Notre Dame Club headquarters at the Hotel Penn­sylvania. The round trip fare, includ­ing ticket to the game is $12, Pull­man charge extra, if desired. 
"The Army game banquet will be held at the Pennsylvania Hotel. 
"Last evening we had the first rally of the divisional chairmen for the Rockne Field house drive. Father Cavanaugh, one of Notre Dame's greatest sons was with us, and brought us news of Notre Dame. He e.vplained the reason for the Field House and the desire to make its happy culmination the universal ef­fort of jVmerica, young and old. 
"Hugh O'Donnell presided. The various borough chairmen spoke. From the enthusiasm displayed. New York will be on top. 
"The various chairmen are: 
Manhattan—Frank C. Walker, '09. 
Brooklyn—Charles Gorman, '03. 
Bronx—Ernest Hammer, '04. 
Queens—Ambrose O'Connell, '07. 
Staten Island—Alex Colgan, '20. 
Westchester—W. A. Walsh, '99. 
Every borough and every section was well represented. We are await­ing the meeting of November 4. 
"The Class of 1926 will be glad to know that Ocean Avenue, Brooklyn, has become the regular baby parade boulevard for members of that Class. Jim Dwyer, Tom Fitzgerald and my­self use Sunday as the best day to promenade. Of course, we are open for additional requests for space along the highway from all classes of Notre Dame. 
"John Law is progressing rapidly with his Manhattan team, inducting them into the system of the Master. The Indians of Dartmouth suffered a setback at Columbia's hands Satur­day. We know Marty Brill taught them how to get past the line of scrimmage. Joe Repetti, in an idle moment, told us he ran 100 yards in 10 2-3 seconds last summer. Hearing this Jack Lavelle nearly fainted. Jack McBride, of the six or is it four Mc-Brides, spoke also. Ray Scanlon, Tom Murphy, Tim Murphy, Doc Gelson, Charlie Judge, Bill Reid, Frank Kane, Jack Gruning, Dan Cuimingham, Jack McKenna, John Balfe, Jim Hayes, The Kennys, George Sullivan, John Howard, -41 Cusick, and the old and young guard all .ittended. 
Eddie Byrne, '26, Secretary. 
HENRY WATTS EICHER, ex. '27; Elected '31 who is located with the John C. McNamara Org., in New York, sends in a fine letter with lots of aews. 
My dear Jim: -As news for the ALUMNUS, you may want to say that RAY MOCK, '28, is doing graduate work at New-York University and is an assistant at the New York University Com­munity White Fund Community Cen­tre, 244 Spring Street, New York City. RAY is living at 244 Spring Street. You will remember that he 
was JACK LAVELLE'S, '28, room­mate in Badin Hall. 
ED FALLON, '26, paid JOHN BALFE, '20, and me a visit last week and FRANK KOLARS phoned me recently. Frank is working for Cros­by, the cartoonist, and is living at 22 Beekman Place. Ed has lost weight but looks fine otherwise. Your old class-mate John Hartley made his appearance at our office the other day. He hasn't changed a bit. 
JOHNNY HOWARD, '2S is hiber­nating at Long Beach, but does man­age to get into Manhattan once a week. JIM QUINN, '27, spends part of his time at the New York oflice of Quinn and Boden at Union Square. HOWIE SMITH, '30, I am told, is coaching at Mount Vernon High School. Jack Lavelle was an official at his game Saturday. Jack continues with the Crescent Athletic Company and is coaching All Hallows Prep. TOM CUNNINGHAM, '30, is attend­ing Fordham Law School. TED GRIFFIN, '29, is continuing his law studies at New York University and is living at the Albert Hotel, Go Univ­ersity Place. 
I suppose you know that -A.L CUSICK, '21, has moved his head­quarters from Park Avenue to the plant in the Bronx. He has a nice ofiice at 585 Gerard Avenue. DAN CANNON, '30, and BERNIE CON­ROY, '30, who share an apartment with Hec Hurtado and Joe Shaugh­nessy of Ohio State, have moved across the street from their old place to 1055 Park Avenue. I see JERRY HAYES, '26, at least once every ten davs. He is verv busv at Newark. JIMMY STACK,'26, continues his piano lessons while waiting to be called when on ambulance duty. 
With all best wishes, 1 am 
Ever sincerely yours. Watts. 
And from John Kenny: 
There are two activities of the New York and New Jersey Notre Dame Clubs which we would like to have mentioned in your next publication. On November 14th we are yunning a special train to Baltimore for the Navy game and on November 28th we are having a big dinner dance at the Hotel Pennsylvania following the .4rmy Game. 
We have established our head­quarters at the Hotel Pennsylvania, Room 622 where we have a man con­stantly in charge, who will give com­plete information about the above activities. 
Tickets for the train ride from New York to Baltimore and return may be obtained at the above head­quarters. 
The dinner dance at Hotel Penn­sylvania promises to live up to its predecessors in every way and this means that all of the Alumni and friends will want to be with us to­gether with their wives and sweet­hearts at this time. 
John T. Balfe, as you may know, is chairman of the fall football activi­ties Committee. 
John E. Kenney 
Entertainment Committee 
N. D. Club of N. Y. 
PARIS 
Now that things are once again humming at the old school, and you are busy with your plans and worries for making this year's ALUMNUS surpass even the splendid accomplish­ments of last year, perhaps you'll wel­come a. few minutes out to learn what 
N. D. men have been doing in the world's gayest city. 
Our first visitors this summer were two delightful gentlemen from the English department, Charles Phillips and Steve Ronay. If you have more men like Prof. Phillips and Steve, please send them on. The charming chats and pleasant little get-togethers we had during their ten-day stay really makes living in exile endurable, yea a joy. Father James Moran passed through on his way home from Rome and with Pat Harl always with­in calling distance we were able to assemble five strong on one occasion. 
Another N. D. man now stationed in Paris is Art Vallez, '21. Art came to Carroll Hall in '13, so he perhaps merits a berth among the lifers. Shortly after graduation he married 
•Miss Mary McGrady of Bay City, Mich. Jerry and Jim, ages six and four respectively, have been added to the family. Jerry is an old timer in both French and English, but curly-headed Jim has an unconcealed dis­dain for our mother tongue. Art, who is with the Dorr company, has been working in Belgium and other European countries for the past two years, but he expects to get back to the good old U. S. A. next year. He says its time to begin preparing Jerry and Jim for N. D. 
Father Leo Ward left from Oxford without getting across the channel, but we were waving him "au revoir et bon voyage" from this side. The latest arrival was Father John Cava­naugh, ordained in June and now on his way to Rome for advanced studies. 
I was much grieved to learn of the death of Judge Eggeman's son. Surely the suddenness of this tragedy has brought sorrow to all N. D. men. 
Well, Jim, all good wishes for "big things" this year. 
PHILIP MOORE, C.S.C. 
SIOUX CITY 
As a first step in procuring money in this section for the Rockne Memor­ial we organized a Notre Dame Club of Sioux City on the night of Sept. 30, 1931. We had fourteen in atten­dance and six local people who %vere either out of the city or could not attend for other reasons. We shall now become affiliated with the Notre Dame Alumni. In this connection if you wish any information communi­cate with our Secretary, John Ric­ord, care of Armour Company, Sioux City, Iowa. The officers installed for the first year are as follows: 
. President—Vincent F. Harrington, '25 Sioux City Iowa. • Vice-Pres.— Matthew White, '88 Ida Grove, Iowa. Secretary—John Rickord, '28 Sioux City, Iowa. Treasurer — .-Vlbert Kuhle, '15 Sioux City, Iowa. 
We have plans under way for doing a few things during the coming year and will probably have a dinner the night of the fourth to start the ball rolling for the Rockne Memorial. 
Vince Harrington. 
SOUTHWESTERN TEXAS 
After that crack of yours in the ALUMNUS I thought I would drop a line to clear myself. However, no hard feelings. 
Last night I assisted as Grooman in the Ed. Walsh Jr. and Lorraine Terry wedding. Bob Walsh being the best man and Father Moriarty, 
O. M. I. officiating at St. Mary's Church, San Antonio, Texas. En­closed please find newspaper article on the wedding. Ed and his wife are going to be in South Bend either Sunday or Monday. In case you see them kindly let them have the en­closed article. 
Joe Menger is getting along sine after a serious operation and he asked me to extend to you his best regards. Joe has turned over the afl"airs of the Notre Dame club to Harold Tynan, '27 who is Vice-Pres. Leonard Hess, '25, who was married recently is supposed to be the Sec. The Cliib has decided to have lunch­eons once a month at the University Club rooms, but the depression has hit some of the fellows. 
Father Boland and Father Mooney were over a week ago and we toured the city together. Father Boland, the northerner, finally took off' his hat to the south after five hours of driving. 
Jack O'Brien has been working hard on this Rockne Memorial trying to make good foundations and con­nections, and has now secured Mr. Fred Johnson to be the local chair­man. 
This week the manager of the Majestic theatre . invited the Notre 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Dame Club and all their friends to a special showing of the picture "The Spirit of Notre Dame." 
Well Jimmie this letter will give you a little idea of what is actually going on down here, and you can ex­pect this sort of messages right along now. 
Best regards to everyone, 
Kirwin J. Williams. 

TOLEDO Just a few lines to let you know what is going on in Toledo concern­ing N. D. men. Our agent informs us that two of our members are proud fathers of their new sons: they are, Robert Steepler, whose nine-pound son was born on Sept. 15th, and Ray­mond Cunningham of our own class, whose seven-pound son was born on Oct. 8th, just a few days ago. Con­gratulations are in order for these men, Jim. 
I am enclosing a letter sent to every priest in and around Toledo. As you can gather from this letter, that al­ready famous picture, "The Spirit of 
Qn 
Q., 
Deaths 

The ALUMNUS reports no deaths of members, but a number of alumni have suffered deaths in the immediate families, for which the ALUMNUS extends the sympathies of the Asso­ciation: Mrs. William N. Bergan, wife of W. N. BERGAN, '98, sister of REV. CORNELIUS HAGERTY, '06, died October 24 in South Bend; the Religious Bulletin reports the death of a son of ED REULBACH, '05, famous varsity and big league pitcher; the wife of JAMES LOG.\N, Denver, died October 12. Mrs. Logan was formerly Agatha Clark of South Bend. The father of HARRY MEHRE, '22, Georgia coach, died October 12. DAVE RUSK, '31, lost a brother on October 14. JOHN 
R. SCANLON, '27, lost his mother recently. The grandmother of JOHN 
Q. ADAMS, '26, died recently. Alum­ni will be particularly grieved to learn of the death of E. J. O'Donnell in Grand Rapids, Mich., the father of REV. HUG H O'DONNELL, C.S.C, '16, and DR. F. J. O'DON­NELL, '17. Father Hugh came from Texas, where he is president of St. Edward's University, for the funeral. REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, preached the funeral seimon. 
Notre Dame," will show at one of our finest showhouses next week. The Toledo Club has been cooperating with the management of the Rivoli in inviting all the priests, nuns, public school principals, and orphans to see this great picture. John Hurley, Dr. Gordon Hartnett, Bob Andrews and myself have been working as a com­mittee to put this across in a big way. From the reception we have received, I am sure this picture is going to make a great hit in Toledo. 
The Rivoli management has also arranged to allow the Central Cath­olic High School Band to broadcast over station WSPD, Toledo, Friday night, and they will play the four Notre Dame songs. And then on Sat­urday night this same band will be the dinner guests of the Rivoli, after which they will see the great picture. The nuns will have a private showing of the picture on Columbus Day. 
The Toledo Club held a golf tourna­ment at Heather-Downs Golf Club on Sept. 24th, the first prize of three golf balls being won by Dr. Hartnett. These balls were donated by the Artie 
=THE ALUMNI 


Marriages 
« 

A recent letter from TED BUL­LARD, ex. '24, contains the following paragraphs: "After viewing the col­umn on marriages in the October issue of the ALUMNUS, and seeing how many foolish people there were I could not keep it a secret any longer. 
"On June 27, 1931, the firm of Bul­lard and BuUard was incorporated by the writer and Miss Ethel BuUard (it's a grand old name). Signed and contracted at St. Theresa's Church in Detroit, Mich., and as the expression goes, we are at home at 14870 Pine­hurst Avenue whenever anyone can catch us in." 
Following closely on the heels of the announcement of JOHN KIL­KENNY'S, '25, engagement, comes word of his marriage to Miss Virginia Gilder. The wedding took place in Pendleton, Oregon, on October 4. 
On Saturday, October 17, Miss Joanne Cecilia Lernett, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Albert J. Lernett, be­came the bride of THOMAS JOSEPH BARRY, '25, at Notre Dame. Tom is a member of the staff of the Chicago Herald-Examiner at the South Bend office. 
Another classmate takes the aisle. RICHARD APP, '25, was married to Schmitt Oil Co. The second prize was won by John Hurley, which was a beautiful corsage donated by the Suder Florist. This corsage most have been sent to Cleveland, or maybe John took it there himself. Frank Sloan made the most beantiful shot of the afternoon, which was an ex­tremely long brassie shot, straight anditrue. 
By the way, Jim, Art Suder should be at Notre Dame by the time you get this letter. You know he is join­ing the rest of the married boys from our class on Saturday at the log chapel. 
The boys are all gathering at Ray Cunningham's home this Sathrday af­ternoon to hear the N. D.-North­western game broadcast. Ray prom­ises us plenty of eats and——. It promises to be a pleasant afternoon for all. 
Well, Jim, I think that is all. I am anxiously awaiting the October issue of the alumnus to see what is going on at Notre Dame. Goodbye until the next time and lots of good luck, Jim. 
RAY TILLMAN, Sec. 
iiiKitiitiiiiiiiiiitiillMitiiHfliMMiHiiiimii 
Q 
III llllltlllMIIIMIIIlUIIIHIIMIIMIIMHI B 

Miss Nellie Margaret Reilly on Tues­day, October 6, in Covington, Ky. 
Miss Mildred Hager of Toledo, 0., whose engagement to ARTHUR SU­DER, '26, was announced in the Octo­ber issue of the ALUMNUS, became Mrs. Suder on Saturday, October 10, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. Rev. 
L. V. Broughall, C.S.C, read the cere­mony in the presence of 23 guests. 
A wedding breakfast was served in the Hotel LaSalle, after which Mr. and Mrs. Suder left for Montreal and Quebec. They are at home in Toledo. 
Mr. Bernard McDonough announces the marriage of his daughter, Julia Dorothea, to WILLIAM JOSEPH MOORE, '26, on Monday, October 12, at Parkersburg, W. Va. 
Mr. and Mrs. Moore are at home at 887 Lilley Avenue, Columbus, Ohio. 
Miss Lorraine Terry, daughter of Mrs. William Walton Terry, San An­tonio, Texas, became the bride of EDWARD ARTHUR WALSH, Jr., '28, Meriden, Conn., at a ceremony read at six o'clock, Thursday night, October 15, at St. Mary's church, San Antonio, with the Rev. Louis Moriarty, O.M.L, officiating. ROBERT WALSH, ex. '29, brother of the groom, best man, and KERWIN WIL­LIAMS, '28, of San Antonio, served as one of the groomsmen. 
Following the ceremony, a recep­tion was held at the home of Mr. and 
Mrs. Marvin C. Hill in Park Hill 
drive. 
Mr. and Mrs. Walsh left on a trip 
to Chicago and New York, and upon 
their return December 1 they will be 
at home at 1600 W. Summit place, 
San Antonio. 
Mrs. John Fogartj' announces the marriage of her daughter, Mary Eliz­abeth, to JOHN JOSEPH MURPHY, ex. '31, on Saturday, October 3, in Springfield, HI. 


Births 
Good things come in pairs! FRANK SOWA, M.S. '31, not only received his master's degi-ee in June but also had a son and heir. Congratulations, Mr. and Mrs. Sowa! 
Mr. and Mrs. RAY CUNNING­HAM, '25, announce the arrival of a son, bom October 8, and weighing seven pounds. 
Mr. and Mrs. MALCOLM KNAUS, '26, dropped into the Alumni Office the day of the Pitt game and in­formed us of the birth of Patricia Ann 'way back in January. 
Jacqueline Ann Dailey is the daugh­ter of Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. DAILEY, Jr., '27. She was born October 16 and weighed six pounds. 
The Class of '28 chalks up another. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT STOEPLER, '28, are the proud parents of a nine-pound son, born September 15. 
October 13 is Mr. and Mrs. JAMES DIGAN'S lucky day. Diane Digan was born on that date. She weighed seven and one-half pounds. Papa Digan was graduated with the Class of '29. 
EDDIE DUGGAN, '26, well known alumnus from good ol' Joisey, is grooming his young son, to "cari-y on" in his daddy's footsteps at Notre Dame. Mr. and Mrs. Duggan are resi­dents of South Orange. 
Mr .and Mrs. BILL SHAl^TLEY, '30, are the proud parents of daugh­ter, Mary Patricia. They are at home at 104 Linden St., Riverside, 111. 
Personals 


Before 1880 
Prof. Robert M. Anderson, '83, Circle-ville, Ohio, Secretary. 
The Alumni Office is in receipt of a letter from HARRY J. SENNER, Camden, N. J., who was a student of the Junior Department at the time of the fire on April 23,1879. Mr. Senner is living at 1185 Beideman Ave., Cam­den, New Jersey. 
1897 
Rev. John JIacNamara, 16 Elm St., Garden City, L.I., N. Y. 
P.4THER M.ACNAMARA, who has been spending the past few weeks commuting between Mount Clements, Michigan, and Notre Dame, is a regular visitor in the Alumni Office. As the Honorary President of the Alumni Association he serves as a good double-check on the office force —when the over-worked Secretary finds it necessaryto drag himself from his desk to watch football prac­tice. 
-Another "second generation" at Notre Dame is Edward Costello, son of Martin J. Costello of Chicago. Edward is a freshman and starting his college career in Browr.son Hall. Mr. and Mrs. Martin Costeilo are liv­ing in Chicago where Mr. Costello is connected with the Interlaken Ir(>n Corpoi-ation. 
1903 
Francis P. Burke, 90t Trust Co. BIdg., Jlilwaukee, Wis. 

.4s we write this column on the morning of the N. D.-Pitt game the campus is fairly seething with re­turning alumni. -Among those who have paid the Alumni Office a visit is FRANK B. HUGHES, Los Ange­les, who came all the way from the Pacific Coast to see the game. 
1907 
T. Paul .AIcGannon, 36 W. 44th St., New York City. 

THE VERY REV. JAMES DONA­HUE, C. S. C, Superior- General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, who has recently been a \isitor in Rome, was received by His Holiness, Pope Pius XL, returning to America on the ship with Premier Laval. 
1914 
Frank H. Hayes, Union Bank of 
Chicago, Chicago, 111. 
A wandering reporter tells us that 

J. P. McEVOY who needs no intro­duction to "our public" is going to spend the next six months in Russia, where he intends to -write another episode in the life of Dixie Dugan. This time it is to be "Show Girl in Russia." 
1920 
Leo B. \Vard, 1012 Black Bldg., Los -Angeles, Calif. 
J. PAUL LOOSEN and CH-ARLES 

R. WRIGHT, '29, have reason to be proud of being residents of Okarche, Oklahoma, if we are to believe a recent article in a newspaper. Accord­ing to the clipping Okarche has had no murders, no business failures in 25 years, no bank robberies or fail­ures, no bonded indebtedness, no farms for sale, and only one divorce in 25 years. The covered wagons start for Okarche, and who says there was a depression! Wouldn't the Re­publicans like to use this as campaign propaganda! 
1916 

Timothy P. Galvin, 708 First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Ind. 
-A recent letter from Dr. C. J. Williamson, 718 Columbia St., New­port, Ky., adds a bit of spice to the daly correspondence of the Alumni Office. 
Dr. Williamson says: "The October number of the Notre Dame -ALUMNUS has just reached my desk. Haven't had one for several months, and to read it over is like news from home. "I am an old student, 1910-16, hav­ing spent six years at the great old place, back in the good old days of Old Brother Flo., St. Joe HalI,=Brown­son Hall, and the Gym—the place in which I lived while there. 
"I saw looking through the Per­sonal Section an account of one Joseph M. (Mike) McGrath breaking into print. My old friend, colleague and "stable mate." It states that he will be remembered as one of the old Rochester crowd. Well, on not a few occasions Mike was the whole crowd himself. Since I have his address I will have to write and ask him if he re­members the time we sent him to Father George Burke, who wanted him to take part in the Forty Hours procession. Mike gets a pair of white gloves and heads for the Church. Well, all this is not the entire pur­pose of the letter— 
"I am down here struggling along with about twenty-five more doctors, and among the healthiest people in the country. It must be the drinking water, however, they don't ordinarily drink much water here in Kentucky." 
1921 
Alden J. Cusick, 585 Gerard Ave, 
New York Citj' 

Note the new address of the Class Secretary. He was formerly located on Park Avenue. A recent letter from a Notre Dame Alumnus informs us that he has a very nice office in the Bronx. Al lives at 38 Burkewood Road, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe -Ave., 
Rochester, N. Y. 

IvID ASHE, Secretary of the '22 Class sends in a '21 Note in addition to his own initimitable Class Notes 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
to his own inimitable Class Notes recently installed commander of Sla­ger Band Post of the American Le-Legion in Rochester. The Kid says: "The band which represents Joe's post has been the official legion band for several years, and was just rated second among all legion bands of the country at the Detroit convention." 
Although the football season is "not yet half over, men of '22 who have taken up football coaching for a pro­fession have turned in some splendid victories on the gridiron. HARRY MEHRE'S Georgia team which is using the Notre Dame style of play defeated Yale quite badly and then smashed North Carolina; Santa Clara, coached by MORRIE SMITH and BUCK SHAW, was barely beaten by California but came back quickly with an impressive win over the Olympic Club of San Francisco; AUBURN POLY under the able di­rection of CHET WYNNE and ROG­ER IvILEY, came into the limelight with a one-sided victory over Georgia Tech. 
Among the water fowl who attend­ed the Northwestern game were: WILF DWYER (he now ranks with MORRIE STARRETT as a travelling ambassador), EDDIE DUNDON (sage of Iron Mountain Mich.,—ED­DIE has been sponsoring a campaign in the North for the erection of a memorial at GEO GIPP'S grave), JIM SHAW (very mysterious as usual—^no one saw him), CLETE LYNCH (Peoria's adopted son), JERRY DIXON (although recently married, Dix doesn't look like a hen­pecked husband), DOCTOR HANK ATKINSON (medic of Green Bay, Wis.). The Chicago delegation con­sisting of JIM MURTAUGH, EDDIE ANDERSON, HAROLD McKEE, JOE FARLEY, EMMETT BURKE, BEN SUSEN, etc., must have been present, but if they were, no doubt they were washed out to sea with the rain for they could not be found after the game. 
HAROLD OSEAU and JOSEPH DUFFY have not yet been located by our Lost and Found Dept. We refuse to eat until they are iound. 
CLINT LINTZ,who is representing a Rochester firm, is in West Virginia. 
Money need not accompany literary contributions to this department. 
1923 

Paul Castner, Studebaker Corp., South Bend, Ind. 
MERLIN ROLWING is now located in St. Louis with the Missis­sippi Valley Life Insurance Company. 
Merlin tells us that he has not yet had a chance to get well acquainted with the St. Louis Alumni, but ex­pects to look them up as soon as the Club gets going this fall. He says he has seen ELMER COLLINS and REYNOLDS MEDART who are also located in St. Louis. 
1924 James F. Hayes, Fifth Ave. Assn., Empire State BIdg, N. Y. City. 
We understand that JACK HUE­THER is now manager of sales for the steel mill and mining section of the Industrial Department of the Gen­eral Electric Company. 
1925 John W. Scallan, Pullman Bldg., 79 E. Adams St., Chicago, 111. 
FRANK McSORLEY, with a crew of football fans from Pittsburgh, paid the Secretary a brief visit the morn­ing of the N. D.-Pitt game. We finally convinced him that no tickets were in the vault in the Office and sent the delegation in search of HERB JONES—in the hope that he could do a Houdini and produce some fifty yard line tickets from Fr. Bolger's silk hat. 
SOME COMMENTS 
"A fine triliute." —RoltEKT C. ZuiTKE. 
"A fine piece of work." —HOWARIt JOXES. 
".-V credit to Notre Dame and to Rockne." —GLEXX V. WARNEi:. 
"I doubt if anybody could • have done it as well as you have, and certainly no one undorstooil him belter." 
—E. K. HALU 

"So intercstinK that I could not put it down until I'd finished reading it." —A. A. STAGG. 
"I want to congratulate you on your good woi-k," writes JESSE C. HARPER. "From my point of view, I think it the best book gotten out up to date. You really give a picture of 'Rock' as the football players and students knew him." 
—from a letter to Harri) StuhUheher. 
HERE IS THE STORY OF THE MAN YOU KNEW—­KNUTE ROCKNE, COACH. COUNSELLER AND FRIEND LIVES AGAIN IN THE PAGES OF THIS BOOK 
This is the book that thousands of Noti-e Dame alumni and students have been waiting for—by Harry A. Stuhldreher, All-American Quarterback, member of the world famous Four Horsemen, and present Head Coach of Villanova College. For this is the story of the Eockne you knew— drawn from life out of ^^^^^ RQCKNE an intimate association over a period of years MAN BUILDER as a pupil, player, friend by and confident of Knute HARRY A. STUHLDREHER Eockne. Have you Illustrated — $2.50 
bought your copy yet? AT ALL BOOKSTORES 
Publishers • Macrae-Smith-Company Philadelphia 
1927 Ed. DeClerq, 8126 Drexel Blvd., Chicago, m . 
"RED" SMITH was right up in there in the Giants-Stapleton profes­sional football game at the Polo Grounds in New York recently. The Giants jammed home what was liter­ally a last-minute touchdown which made the final score a 7 to 0 victory. The New York Times gives a glowing account of Red's brilliant exploits in the fourth quarter which enabled the Giants to win. Quoting the Times: "It was on first down that Smith broke through Stapleton's right flank and twisted and butted his way al­most to the goal line with tacklers hanging all over him." More power! 
1928 Louis Buckley, Box 73, Notre Dame, Ind. 
More of the precious chain letter: 
"Louis has asked me to begin this chain letter, so I will have to begin it by answering his questions. I am still at N. D. and have just recently received my Ph.D. degree. I am not married and have no prospects, and as long as I continue in this state of blessed singleness I am in hopes that I will be able to get back for the re­union of the Class in 1933. The school has changed and we who are still here miss the faces of our pals and classr mates. I am in hopes that each of the men in the Science department will lend his hand in making this let­ter interesting and in keeping the chain unbroken. 
".A.NDRBW J. BOYLE." 
"Have just received this chain let­ter from MAURICE McMEN.\MIN and while the matter is fresh in my mind and before it is displaced by weightier subjects, will get my con­tribution ready to go on its way. 
"I've been married over a year now, a year March 1 to be exact. Mrs. Conlin was formerly Margaret Hage­man, a South Bend girl. We live at 1369 Greenleaf -A.ve., Chicago. We are seriously considering the purchase of a Welcome mat, but until we do, consider that the sentiment is there nevertheless. 
"I am busy studying the ills of mankind at Loyola Medical school, and hope to earn the title of Doctor in the far distant future. There are several N. D. men at Lovola, includ­ing SOLOMON, '28, SCILLA, '29, TERRERI, '29, STACK, SULLIVAN, HEMMING, and others too numer­ous to mention. 
"The class reunion in '33 will surely be bothered by my presence if nothing happens to prevent. 
"This chain letter seems to me to be a mighty good thing, and I've been wondering if it wouldn't be a good idea to patent the inspiration before the other classes begin plagiarizing. 
"EDWAKD J. CONLIN." 
"I was desirous of making a worth­while contribution, but I am grief-stricken over the passing of 'Rock' and for that my statements would be incoherent which are of no great con­sequence when at the best. 
".\n answer to the questions .. . I am nearing my goal which is an M. D., with one more year at Loyola here in Chicago. I am as yet not married, unfortunately, and am looking for­ward to our reunion and particularly to another session with FRANK HE­G.4.RTY, MIKE RICKS, BUD CAL­LAGY, 'HANK' H.A.SLEY and the rest of the fellows. 
"S. S. SOLOMON, 
"3221 W. Washington Blvd., 
"Chicago, 111." 
"Just got back from a pleasant Easter week-end with MIKE RICKS in Washington. Outside of this, though, my activities have been lim­ited for Medicine and work prove rather confining. I'm finishing my third year at Jeff^erson now and am anxiously waiting to be turned loose on the unsuspecting public. 
"Marriage prospects not even worth thinking about. Perhaps in five or ten years . . . ? And I've been count­ing on the Reunion ever since June, 1928. A word to Tobin: Best of luck, Paul. 
"FRANCIS HEGARTY." 
"The typewriter is just a means to and end, the end being that you will be able to read what is herein set forth, so just disregard anything in the line of mistakes. If I wrote this in my own Spencerian script it would undoubtedly cause you much mental anguish and disturb the peace of mind. 
"To begin with, there was a bit of delay in my receiving the letter, but despite that fact I have had it too long and am profoundly gi-ieved at my own shortcomings. However, I wish to say in my own defense that at the time of its arrival the stress and strain of the current medical education was most severe. 
"In answer to your questionnaire, my history is not at all sparkling and I'm still a liability at this tender age. At the present time I am in my third year of Medicine at Rush and bid fair to be out trying to out-graft the lawyers and politicians within the next decade. Marriage is like Europe! I've heard it talked about and it's that far away. Now about the Reunion .. . I believe that I feel very much as does Old Doc Hegarty. 
"Anything that I might have had to say before I started is lost in the nite and anyway I may see you some­time soon and tell you the rest of it. I wish to take this space in saying 'thank you' to Frank Hagerty and wish him luck and lots of it, too. 
"PAUL TOBIN, 
"1804 W. Congress St., Chicago, 111." 
(Ed's Note: Sorry these Notes have been filed in the Alumni Office all these months, but circumstances made it impossible for us to print all of the splendid chain letter before now. We want to assure the fellows who cooperated with Louie by keeping up the chain that we appreciate their cooperation and hope the boys won't get discouraged because of this long delay in printing the letters. Send in all the Notes possible and keep up the Chain. We all GO for the idea!) 
JOHN IGOE sent in a letter a cople of weeks ago and while we were still rejoicing over the "return of the prodigal" and looking for a fatted calf in these days of depi-ession, John surprised the office force by pay­ing us all a visit on the morning of the Pitt game. He looked so "smooth" and prosperous that we decided to take the calf home (if we find one) and eat him ourselves. 
GEORGE KIENER, Lakewood, 0., writes a long letter recently and in­cludes the good news that he is pur­suing a literary career.- He is free­lancing, and sent us a copy of one of his articles on K. K. Rockne which appeared in the Catholic newspapers of Cleveland, Akron, Canton and Erie, Pa. George has also had arti­cles published in America, and in the March 21 edition, '31, America gave him first place on thee over—which is something that calls for congratula­tions. 
GUS MACDONALD pays his dues and asks the poor, over-worked Alum­ni Secretary to earn the five bucks by getting him some .A.rmy tickets. Well, all we have to say is that if we get anybody any Army tickets from now on we will certainly be earning our money. Gus has changed his address to 68 William St., c/o R. A. Fulton, New York City. 
1929 
Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
From JOE JACHYM comes the news that he has just finished a suc­cessful season at Wheeling where he met BUTCH NIEMIEC and LEO SHRALL. Joe says that both are looking very well. Joe's address is 14 State St., Westfield, Mass. 

JOHNNY LAW, despite the fact that this is his busy season, finds time to send in a letter with some dope for the magazine. John says that TED TWOMEY, '30, was in New York recently after having come down from scouting Yale. John says: "He looks very debonnair and says he is getting back to civilization." He also adds, much to our pleasure, that a lot of the boys from N. D. come down to see his games. They still like to see the old Notre Dame shift. John, as you probably already know, is coaching at Manhattan College, New York City, and doing a veiy good job of it, too! 
TOM KIENER'S little brother, Johnny, (Ed's note: Will John be after my scalp?) is a new inmate in the Alumni Office. John is handling publicity for the University, besides being a member of the ALUMNUS staff. John tells us that brother Tom is busy playing golf and working . . . sometimes. Now that John is a mem­ber of the official Alumni Office fam­ily, we should be able to check up on Tom and cousin George. 
1930 Bernard W. Conroy, 1038 Park Ave. New York City "Dear Jim: "Here are a few notes that I have gathered up. 
"JIM DEELEY has been working at the Brooklyn Union Gas Company. 
"ED ARTHUR is with the Western Union Telegraph Company here in New York. 
"HOWARD SMITH was in to see us last night. He told us that JACK LAVELLE, of the Crescent Sports Company, was the referee at the Mount Vernon High School game re­cently. "Howie" is helping to coach the Mt. Vernon team and since they have won four straight so far this season, we think he is doing a good job of it. 
"CON CAREY is back in the city for the law classes at Fordham. WARREN FOGEL and FRANK WALKER are also attending that law school. 
"ART DORWIN is reported to have married and settled in Minocqua, Wis. 
"CHUCK" O'MALLEY was in New York with his uncle at the Vanderbilt Hotel, but he has returned to his home in Scranton. He is planning to do a little deer hunting this fall. 
"JOHN O'DONNELL is reported to be in the insurance business in Eastern Pennsylvania. 
"JOHN QUINN has moved to East 114th St., in Cleveland. He is em­ployed by the Studebaker Corp., in their Lakewood plant. 
"FRANK MILLER (former N. D.) was working in Newark, but he re­turned to Bowling Green, Ohio, a few months ago. 
"MART TRAVERS is working in a bank in Buffalo. 
"JOHN NANOVIC, foi-mer Ji(<7­gler editor, is with Street and Smith Company, a publishing concern here. John gets a number of stories from Notre Dame men and wants more. 
"LEON ZABRISKE has been establishing himself as a columnist with the Great Neck, Long Island, Newa. Leon's column, printed under the caption or title "A Retired Senior" is very interesting. 
"JOE ABBOTT of Paterson is handling a tough job well. He is assistant superintendent in charge of construction of the new Kings County hospital. The Kenny Brothers, who are general contractors, like Joe a lot. Joe has been getting a little practice at his old job as "Doc" for the foot­ball players. He was acting in that capacity at the Manhattan-Ogelthorpe game and noticed that his speed in getting on the field hasn't diminished a bit. 
"ART DENNEHY, JOE O'NEIL, FRANK DUNN of Richard Whitney & Co., Brokers, FRANK LEAHY and JOHN COLRICK, Georgetown coaches, MARTY BRILL of Colum­bia coaching staff, TOM LEAHY, teacher of accounting at Manhattan College, and a number of others were at the above-mentioned game. 
"BERNIE COXROY." 

Friends of EDDIE COLLINS, for­merly from Oak Park, will be glad to learn that he is recovering from a recent illness in Tucson, Arizona. Eddie writes that he is anxiously fol­lowing the team and adds that Tucson is sure for N. D. His address is Mr. Edmund A. Collins, Box 2304, Tucson, Ariz. Letters from the boys will be appreciated. 
1931 John E. Boland, 1402 Linden ut. Scranton, Pa. 
"Dear Jim: "The ALUMNUS arrived and re­minded me that I had heard from some of the fellows. I am particu­larly indebted to someone from Rochester who sent in a breezy letter containing quite a few notes which will be of much aid to me in filling out this column. "The Class of '31 is very legal minded, if the number of fellows fol­
lowing out that study this fall can serve as a criterion. JIM KEARNEY and CHARLIE SPINELU are at Harvard Law School; RICHIE BAR­BER is at Yale; AL STEPAN is at Northwestern; ED MADDEN at Georgetown, while GORDIE SAL­MON and the writer occasionally go to a class here at Penn. BILL SUL­LIVAN returned to Notre Dame law school after a very successful season with the Chicago White Sox. JOHN BERGAN, MON. CHRISTMAN and JOE DEEB are also back at N. D., while BUD TUOHY is at Fordham. 
"That about settles the legal side of it, so now we can say something about our dramatic stars. FRANK CARIDEO, AL HOWARD and ART McMANMON were on the coast most of the Summer contributing their abilities toward making "The Spirit of Notre Dame" a success. 
"BOB BALFE has already made remarkable strides in the field of Journalism. He is running a column, The Mad Hatter, in one of the more prominent Florida papers. JACK SAUNDERS is working for a New Jersey supply ' house. RED CAL­LAGHAN has gone in for banking, being connected at the present time with a Rochester bank. TOM ASHE and JOHN DORSCHEL spent a cool summer working on the ice. WALT CAHILL is working in the cashier department of Wilson and Company. FRANK HOLLAND is with a Chi­cago brokerage firm. I wonder what BILL LEAHY is doing? He certainly shouldn't be too busy to drop me a line once in a while and he can tell GENE COYLE to do the same if he sees him. 
"PAUL GRANT is in the sales field for the Illinois Public Service Com­pany with headquarters at Quincy. JOE LAUERMAN is working in the Knitting mills in Marinette. AUSTIN BOYLE managed to sell a few songs while he was attending the Summer session at Columbia University. HOBIE SHEAN is in the shoe de­partment of a Boston concern and JOE BAYLAND is selling insurance up in Grand Rapids. Congratulations are in order for R.AY DUNDA, the first father of the Class of '31. 
"BOURKE MOTSETT, who is studying for the Priesthood at the North American College, Rome, sends in the following information: 'CHARLES CROWLEY is working as a U. S. Produce Inspector at Rochester, while RON SLACK is with the White Rose Nursery in the same town; DON O'TOOLE is associated with his father in the Real Estate business in Chicago, and FRAN FLANNERY went away up to Chase, British Columbia, to get a start in the lumber business. Bourke also re­ports that JACK DEMPSEY is at The BEAUPRE boys from Grosse CHARLES MILTNER, of Cadillac, Harvard business school. Wonder if Pointe have been busy during the Michigan, is attending the University he will find any Harvard boys with a summer trying to win a few golf cups of Michigan Law School. sense of humor? —and have done a good job of it, too. 
"JOE O'HORA has already in­MATTHEW J. CULLEN, '28, of 
BILL ROWEN, from Flint, is now-

stalled himself in the heating business Chicago, is rapidly becoming a "big 
busy organizing a sales outfit to sell 

in Scranton and despite the depression, influential lawyer." 
a steel window shade roller. 

is doing very well. The same can be Can't think of anything more now, said for ED SHEAN, who is engaged so wiU close. 
CARROLL B. MURPHY, of Chi-

in the hardware business in Scranton. Very Sincerely Yours, 
copee Falls, Massachusetts, as yet 

"Well, Jim, I'll close this letter by "has not accepted a position." Morris K. Leahy. making a plea for some letters, especially from some of the boys DONALD MAC DONALD, of Flint, 
around Cleveland and Chicago. Until is coaching the old high school, as FOOTBALL TICKETS next month, well as trying to learn the furniture 
One last reminder! Southern Cali­
business. He reports much assis­
"Sincerely, fornia tickets are available, plenty of 
tance from CLARENCE TAECKENS 
"JOHN BOLAND." 
them and no seats in the N. D. Sta­and JACK LAUX also. 

There seems to be very little "dope" dium is bad. .4rmy tickets are long 
on the Class of 1931, in the October JOHN RADOSEVICH, of South since gone, sold out, exhausted, not issue of the "Alumnus," so will give Chicago, has his hands full trying to to be had, and similar subtleties. For you the little bit that I have found get the good citizens of Chicago vo the former advice, you're welcome. 
from various sources: patronize his meat markets. For the latter, sorry. 
Q.. 
••a 

An Open Letter From 'Tat" Manlon—Continued from Pase 53 
I sav; Lou the other day'at the Pittsburgh game, so evidently somebody or other must have told him unofficially that the contest was being held here at that time. 
The Vice-President made five and one-half speeches during the course of • this dinner. The last one was broken off in the middle because of the fact that the 2:10 A. M. train v/as ready to leave Pittsburgh, and by that time the only thing that the Vice-President had left was a reservation to Plymouth. Everybody spoke at the Pittsburgh dinner, and some of them two or three times. Pinky Martin had a front seat. Joe Bach, Elmer Layden. and President Devlin of the Western Pennsylvania Club held forth with myself at the head table. Chief ITeeson of Phila­delphia came in in time to pronounce the benediction. Joe Breig reminisced about the days when the Scribblers put out their first annual and practically everybody at the meeting asked that love and kisses of one variety or another be extended to their friends on the campus. Ajnong other things, I accumulated a suitcase full of constructive suggestions referring to everything from shoes and ships to sealing wax. It v/as certainly fortixnate that I plugged up on the rami­fications of our nev; Constitution because otherv/ise I v/ould not have been able to assure the Pittsburgh bunch that their integrity as a local organization was just about to be written into our fundamental lav/. 
My advice is Jim, that if you ever make a trip like the one I made, you will be letter perfect on this regional idea of our Constitution. The boys v/ho have taken the trouble to organize Notre Dame clubs in various places feel that these units should have certain corporate rights and privileges in the Alumni Asso­ciation. 
Of all the dinners. Pittsburgh took the prize for'number in attendance, but there v;as this common denominator perceptible everywhere; namely, interest in the activities of the Association and the desire to be of service to it in all of its aims and objectives. 1 am convinced that vie ought to tighten the lines of contact between the Notre Dame clubs and the Notre Dame campus by frequent visitations in both directions. This procedure of contacting is extremely pleas­ant business and I shall be most happy to go again but it's your turn next. 
Faithfully, Pat Manion. 
Q< •iiiitiiiiiittiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiini)tiiitiitititiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiii ....Q 







