The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
li.inmipjiaw^^aqpnii ; i.i • 
THE NOTRE DAME 


ALUMNUS 
ig^i Kjommencemenl 

1) Induction of the Fighting Irish squadron into the Naval Air Corps on Memorial Da^ aas part of the Commencement aeeli-end. Here, as part of the ceremony, Joseph J. iV/iHer, "4/, is blessed i>5 Rev. John 
P. Lynch, CS.C„ '25, prefect of religion, as Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., '16, presides. 
2) A salute to the Notre Dame dead is fired ty Company F, 1st Reg., Indiana State Cuard, folloro­ing the Memorial Day Mass al the War Memorial door of Sacred Heart Church. 
3) Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen delivers the Baccalaureate Sermon, 
4) Recipients of honorary de­grees, IDilft Father O'Donnell. Left to right. Father O'Donnell, Msgr. Sheen, the Hon. Joseph P. Ken­nedy and Rt Rev. Msgr. Michael 
J. Ready. 

5) The American flag, presented to the University on iVashington's Birthday by the class of '41, is carried to the flagpole by members of the class, to be raised over the campus for the ensuing year. 
6) The class of '41 and their guests al the Baccalaureate Mass. 
7) Mr. Kennedy delivers the Commencement Address. Promin­ent in the background are Very Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial, Msgr, Sheen, Father O'Donnell, Msgr. Ready, Very Rev. Msgr. John R. Hackelt, LL.D., '40, Rev. J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies. Deans 
D. C. Jackson, Jr., H. B. Froning and J. E. McCarthy, Assistant Dean Paul I. Fenlon and Trustees Byron V. Kanaley and Frank E. Hering. 
(Photographs 4 and 6 by the "Chicago Herald-American") 

JUNE. 1941 No. 8
Vol. 19 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published monthly from October to June, inclusive (except January), by the Universitjr of Notre Dame, 
Notre Dame. Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1. 1939» at the Postoffice, Notre IXune, In^ana. under the 
act of Aus:ust 24. 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Oitholie Alnmni Federation. 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONX. *25. Edlior; WILUAM R. DOOLEY, 76, Managing Editor 
Vol. 19 JUNE, 1941 No. 8 
New Features Mark 97th Commencement 
Alumni Forums; Registration Fee for Alumni; Reception for Parents of the Graduates; Theatre Presentation for Alumni 
— Ail Are Received by 1941 Crowds with Enthusiasm. 
Commencement Highlights 
(Pictures Opposite) 
1) Matt Themes. '36, and (3) Honard Jelfers, '36 display their skill in the an­nual ten-year vs. five-year mortal combat on Saturday momine. 
2) The Hon. Joseph P. Kennedj-, with Bev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.. '16. presi­dent, and Very Rev. Thomas A. Steiner. C.S.C.. '99, prorincial. 
4) "Scholastic" Editor Bill McGowan. '41. comes bade alive with the old sheep­skin. 
5) William D. Jamieson. '05, has the floor and the proper eestures at one of Forum sessions. 
6) John Kyan. '36' gives up sineine for bat-wielding, with Spike McAdams. *31. trying to talk him out of it. 
7) The '31 first base coachers go to woric on the opposition. 
8) The information desk at the main entrance to the campus was a hard-worked feature of the week-end. (But the feminine adornment was only temporary, for pho­tographic purposes.) 
9) The Gymnasium, scene of the Com­mencement ceremonies and the Baccalau­reate Mass. 
10) Pat Manion, '22, a speaker at the Politics Forum, with Rer. William F. Cart­ningham, C.S.C., '07, diairman. and Con­gressman Robert A. Grant. '2S, another speaker. 
11) The head table at the Alnmni Ban­quet. Left to right. Rev. John -4. MacNa­mara. "ST, John L. Herman, '91, Alumni President Hariy F. Kelly, '17. 
12) Don Miller, '23, Frank E. Hering, '98, Rev. William A. Care.v, CS. C '11, Rt Rer. Msgr. Michael J. Ready. LL.D.. 
•41, Most Bev. John F. Noll, VUV., '15. 
13) Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C, '16. Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C.. '06, Rt, Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, LL.D., '41, Tim­othy P. Galvin, 'IS. 
14) Retiring Alnmiil President Ray J. Eidienlanb, '15, Rev. Jdin J. Cavanaugh, CS.C., '23, Frank Leahy, '31, James E. Deery, '10. 
(Picture No. 2 by the "Chicago Herald-American." Other pictures on this page and most other pictures in this issue by Ed Steeb, '43.) 

Of all the alumni of all the colleges and universities which held all the com­mencements of 1941, Notre Dame men should be among the happiest. 
If you were among those present, no need to elaborate. If you weren't, space won't permit elaboration, but here's the high-spot briefing of a week-end of high­lights. 
First, as a journalist, before chronol­ogy sets in, it must be headlined that four major features marked the 97th Commencement. 
Former Ambassador Joseph P. Ken­nedy, Rt. Rev. Monsignor Ftilton J. Sheen, and Memorial Day on the Com­mencement Friday provided the first three. 
The perennial loyalty of Notre Dame men, which brings tliem back for Com­mencements year in and year out, come sleet, come storm, come national emer­gency or triple holiday, was the fourth featux'e. Reunion Classes had the best at­tendance records, over all, of any previ­ous year. The toll of business, of selec­tive service, and of family obligation on the long week-end, was taken only to a slight extent in the off-year Classes. Ap­proximately 700 alumni registered for the week-end, a reduction from last year as anticipated, but not by the numbers feared. 
Thursday afternoon the Alumni Office and its "storm troopers," the grow­ing band of young heroes who undertake alumni registx-ation in the residence halls swung into action. By Friday morning, the holiday angle permitted a heavy in­flux of alumni, and Friday assumed pro­portions usually reserved for Saturday. 
Golf bags were in evidence, the Univer­sity course crowded. Porches and steps began to hold groups exchanging news, views, and the experiences of five or 25 years. 
At 9 o'clock, the Memorial Day Field Mass was celebrated at the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart Church by Rev. Raymond Murray, CS.C, '18, World War I veteran. The address of the day was given by Capt. Norman C. Gillette, commandant of the Northwestern Uni­versity naval R.O.T.C. A group of Notre Dame men were inducted as naval avia­tion cadets, in ceremonies following, the Mass. The Moreau choir sang the hymns for the Mass, the University Band pro­viding music before and after. Rev. Hugh O'DonneU, CS.C, '16, president of the University, read Notre Dame's Boll of Honored Dead. Co. F, First Regt. Ind. State Guard, provided-a color guard and firing squad, and the Fourth Degree K. of C. a guard of honor for the cere­monies. 
The Alumni Fomms 

Conscious of a growing alumni appre­ciation of the opportunities Commence­ment affords for the exchange of ideas between alumni and faculty, the Univer­sity administration and the Alumni Asso­ciation offered this year, for the first time, two forums, in the general field of Politics and Economics, featuring faculty and alnmni leaders in more or less panel type discussion with opportunity for gen­eral participation. 
No thought was entertained that these Forums would attract large numbers. But it was felt that for the relatively few interested, the opportunity was worth the effort. Attendance at both Forums exceeded anticipation. Results seem to have more than justified the pro­grams. The encouragement of the first efforts will undonbtely result in further development of this intellectual tie be­tween the men and principles of Notre Dame. 
First in order was the Forum of Poll­tics, held on Friday afternoon in the audiiorium of the John F. Gushing, C.E. '06, Hall of Engineering. Presiding was Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C, distinguished educator, recently a scholar in the field of Latin-American relations, an interest which is taking him to South America in July. First speaker was Clar­ence "Pat" Manion, whose eloquent de­fense of democracy by tongue and pen is one of the highlights of Notre Dame's contribution to the real defense of Ameri­can principles. Second speaker was Dr. Waldemar Gurian, editor of The Review of Politics, the periodical which has placed Notre Dame in the academic van in this popular field. Dr. Gurian's first hand knowledge of . Europe and the figures leading the conflicts abroad, contributed much to the Forum. Perhaps the most popular speaker, gauged by audience re­action, was Hon. Robert A. Grant, '28, aggressive young member of Congress from the Third Dist. Indiana. Con­gressman Grant presented the resistance in Congress to the repeal or weakening of 

'America's neutrality legislation. Always popular with Notre Dame audiences, and presenting the studied and weighty views of the men who know both America and war, Ray J. Kelley, '15, past National Commander of the American Legion, closed the Forum. Active work in ar­ranging the Politics Forum was done by Prof. Paul Bartholomew of the Depart­ment of Politics of the University. 
Obviously, the field is broad, the sub­jects within it unlimited. The lack of precedent brought the speakers to the discussion with more or less general ap­proaches. But the enthusiasm of the audience, and the need for this annual clearing house of Notre Dame views on timdy subjects,, particularly the contro­versial, seem to indicate more intensive development of this Forum for alumni. The Forums were opened to members of the graduating Class and their parents. 
Following similar procedure, on Satur­day afternoon in the same auditorium. Prof.' William H. Downey, head of the Department of Economics, presided over a Forum on Economics. Again the field was broad, and the panel leaders chose only a few pertinent subjects. In addition to Prof. Downey. Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C, '07, long an outstanding national figure in economics, spoke on the Ency­clicals of Leo XIII and Pius XI, com­monorating the 10th anniversary of the Quadragesimo Anno, and the Golden Ju­bilee of the famous Remm Novarum, both of which have had profoimd influence on modem economic thought. Dean James 
E. IfeCarOiy of the College of Commerce led a discussion with his consideration of business traids. And Bernard J. Voll, 17, South Bend industrialist, former president of the Association, presented the problems of the employer. Bernard Donoghue, '32, vdth the NLRB, was pre­vented at the last minute from participat­ing in the panel as planned. Active work in arranging the Economics Forum was done by Prof. John H. Sheehan of the Department of Economics of the Uni­versity. 
Again in this Forum as in Politics, the presence each year of current, vital top­ics, which would be of interest and in­struction as subjects for alumni and fac­ulty interchange of thought, was evident, and the consensus of audience opinion was the further development of the program. 
Baseball Victories 
Since the games with California were adjusted by Coach Kline to avoid conflict with'the Forums, it seems only fitting here to congratulate Notre Dame and Coach Kline on its dual Conunencement wins over the Pacific Coast champions. Lack of material this year gave the Uni­versity a season of ups and downs. Alumni saw a Notre Dame climax of the traditional type. 
Reunions 
Friday night set a new high in Class Reunion acctivities. The Class of 1916, the 25-year Class, held its very interest­ing and enthusiastic reunion dinner in the lay faculty dining room of the Uni­versity Dining Halls, with their distin­guished Classmate, Rev. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C, president of the Uni­versity, as the central figure. Present also was Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15, retiring president of the Alumni Association. Master of Ceremonies was Rev. E. 'Vin­cent Mooney, C.S.C, head of the Catholic Youth Bureau of the N.C.W.C Retired from active duty was Timothy P. Galvin, class secretary, now supreme master of the Fourth Degree K. of C, and put in the office was Grover Miller, Racine, Wis. Standouts at the Reunion were the 100 percent reunited Architecture Class of 1916 — Bill Turner, Stubby Flynn, Casey Krajewski, and Jake Eckd, as they were unprofessionally hailed. 
At the Indiana Club, in South Bend, Chairman Jim Doyle and John Bergan sat 150 members of the Class of 1931 down to a reunion dinner of scope and preparation unequalled in the Notre Dame annals. Key Classman was un­doubtedly rugged Frank Leahy, who in the ten years since graduation had cir­cled back to Notre Dame -via Georgetoiwn, Michigan State, Fordham, Boston Col­lege, and the Sugar Bowl. A number of the classmates of the championship teams of 1929-30, members of the Class, were on hand. 

And in the Carroll Hall Rec, darkness greeted the announced Reunion of the Class of 1936. But editorial alarm was promptly shifted to enthusiasm when it was learned that the darkness heralded the showing of the famous epic of the senior year of the class of 1936, the Ohio State-N.D. game of 1935, in sound, shown by Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C. Pilney, Fromhart, Pojman, Shakespeare, and other heroes of that classic were present. John Ryan, Glee Club heart­throb of his era, was back with glamor undiminished — if'wasted — and pro­vided a rallying point for making '36 articulate. Chairman Bob Ervin, Notre Dame biologist, deserves a hand for the whole affair. 
The Glee Club and Band 
On Friday night. Prof. Daniel Pedtke 

presented to a capacity crowd of parents 
of graduates and alumni his now-famous 
Glee Club of 1941. Possessed of several 
outstanding voices, and a varied reper­
toire, the Club won wide acclaim this 
year for its Song of the Free, a narrative 
tone-poem and medley of vocal Ameri­
cana written and arranged by members 
of the organization. The number is beau­
tifully conceived and excellently done 
(ask the man who heard it). 
Also on Friday night, as again on Sat­urday, those persons enjoying the beauty of the Quadrangle around the calm hour of 6:30 to 7:30, derived the added stimu­lus of the rousing music of the Univer­sity Band, directed by Joseph J. Casa­santa, '23. 
Saturday — Golf 

Saturday brought a new rush to the golf course. And right here Larry Moller may be listed as the 1941 champ, scoring a fitting triumph for the '31 Reunion Class. His 144 for the 36-hole tournament record was one of the best one-day scores in the history of the course, acording to Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C, '18, Uni­versity goal coach. Close behind him, to clinch the pennant for the 10-year men, were old golf-teammates Russ Beaupre with 150, and brother Fran Beaupre, with 152. At present writing, Chicago papers list Moller as Hearing the top in Illinois State amateur, which he has reached twice since graduation. 
This is also a good spot to mention the ' results of the Softball game between the 
Ten-Year and the Five-Year teams on 
the Walsh-Badin diamond. The Alumni 
OfSce, for the first time in the history 
of these annual games, is able to an-
i Continued on Vage 27) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 


The Commencement Address 
By The Honorable Joseph P. Kennedy, LLD., '41 
Former Ambassador Recalls Peace Message of Holy Father; Dwelb 
on President's Proclamation of Unlimrted^ Emergency and Its Con­
sequences; Expresses Formula for the Exercise of. Free Speedi Right. 
The fact that you receive your degree from Notre Dame in this the ninety-ninth year of her existence, gives to your com­mencement more than the conventional meaning. Indeed, your commencement ac­quires unique historical significance. The rare honor of being her youngest sons before the turn of her century binds you to her past and binds you to her future with a particular depth and meaning. For you, her sons of 1941, represent the culmination of her first century of noble efforts and give bright promise of her second century of Christian educational achievement. 
Forced to Quick Battle 

Moreover, you leave the protection of her sanctuary and enter the hard con­flicts of life at a time unique in Ameri­can history and in the history of the world itseU. No class of graduates within my memory will grapple with life so quickly or be forced to battle so valijintly to preserve the truths you have learned and the beliefs you have treasured. Nor has any class of graduates within my memory faced the many-sided hostile at­tacks, the neglect and the scorn of the Christian truth — the very core of your education here. However, I do not think that thoughts about the disordered world of today should occasion a note of sym­pathy for you men of Notre Dame. All of us are part of our time, and some of us are more fortunate than others. In a real sense you are deserving of congratu­lation because you enter a world in tur­moil where uncertainty and despair abound, with a background of truth and justice which your whole education sym­bolizes, for here you have learned that ideas and ideals are the basic elements which must shape the pattern of indi­vidual and national character. 
We are living in a period which all too readily scraps the old for the new. Many of the modem campus philosophers clutch at every passing whim of fashionable thought. As a nation we are in danger of forgetting that the new is not true be­cause it is novel and that the old is not false because it is ancient. Here at Notre Dame your good teachers have tried to instill in you a great respect for the traditional that has proven its value. Your leaders, ever alive to growth, have not hesitated to welcome what is progres­sive in a real and not a shadowy sense. Times change but neither man nor truth changes. 
Picture of the Times 
Let me quote a picture of the times: 
"Men have torn up the road which led to Heaven and which all the world followed, now we have to make our own ladders. . . . Never was there a period when young Catholics .. . could count less upon public opinion and the force of good example, to keep them in the right path. We may doubt if at any time it has been true that man were not swept along in the crush and carried by their surroundings almost in spite of themselves. But if such days ever existed they are with us no longer. The broad road has grown broader with every new discovery, and the nar­row way has grown narrower. Every new facility . . . has filled modem life with greater restlessness and with the craving for fresh emotional excitement. 
The Hon. Joseph P. K«nn«dy 

With desolation the world is laid deso­late because no man thinketh in his heart. Nevertheless, we have to save ourselves in ttie surroundings in which God has placed us. Nothing is to be gained by looking only at the difScul­ties and disconzagements." 
A candid picture, you will agree, of the world as it is today: But that statement was written about an era thirty years ago. I mention it to indicate that life provides very little new under the sun. Certainly nothing new in sufTerings, in perversities or in trials. Every age and every generation must have its crises. Yours seems most tragic of aU, but for its burdens you come forth well equipped beyond your dreams. 
I do not have to remind you — the bachelors of 1941 — the products of a great University — that you must "Com­mence" your adnlt life in a war-torn world. Even if our beloved country should remain at peace, your destiny wiU be profoundly affected by a world in total war. 
Saw War Approaching 

At my post abroad I first sensed and then saw the awful holocaust approach­ing. Within my limited field I did my very best to prevent it, knowing only too well that another world war might well send civilization tumbling down the preci­pice of savagery. 
But Catholics may find comfort evoi in a world in what our Holy Father re­called in his peace message last Novem­ber — a message that one day an ex­hausted and disillusioned world innst heed — the Pope recalled that Christ himself had told his apostles '^ou will hear of wars and rumors of wars. Sect that ye be not troubled for these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet." 
We can take comfort in the fact that Pius has been the constant and insistent voice for peace in a- world that heeds him not. My own brief acquaintance with His Holiness confirms the judgment of 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
friend and foe alike that peace for the nations of the world is a cause for which he would sacrifice even life itself. 

It is not unnatural in these times of death and destruction when the beasts of the apocalypse are loose upon the earth that the Prince of Peace should be for­gotten,' that his voice of eternal truth should not be heard above the roar of war. However limited the influence of that great man may now seem to be, I confidently assert that he will grow in . stature while the prestige of the war lords declines. It is not only because of treasured monories of my audience with him or the profound impression his grasp of worldly affairs made upon me, but be­cause what he champions, we know in the fortitude of our faith must and will pre­vail Let us not forget this Prince of 
Peace even in time of war. 
War Familiar to Notre Dame 
But war is not new to this Catholic University. The plaque at the Memorial Doorway to Sacred Heart Church on your quadrangle g^ves a daily reminder of the men who have pven their lives "For God, for Country and for Notre Dame." And the Congregation of Holy Cross whose priests run this Univer­sity has given generously of its mem­bers that Catholic men might keep the Faith in time of war as well as in time of peace. Father Corby, after whom the hall on your campus is named, was an outstanding chaplain of the Civil War. His "Memoirs of a Chaplain's Life" gives a g^phic description of the priest administering general absolution to the soldiers at Gettyburg. And today your own former president, the brilliant Bishop CHara, as Military Delegate, supervises the work of the Catholic chap­lains with the armed forces, including four priests of the Holy Cross Congre­gation. 

Yon men of the 1941 class of Notre Dame will have another reason for re­membering this day. Within the week the President of tiie United States has issued a most historic, and most solemn pro­nonnoetnent. Calling upon his enormous Constitutional powers. President Roose­velt has proclaimed an unlimited national emergency. What the technical legal sig­nificance of this decree may be is for the moment unimportant. What is important to everybody even to all of us who feel stronj^y that our country should keep out of war is this — that your President and my Preadent — the leader of this nation having consistently and repeat­edly assured this nation that he does not intend to take us into war unless at­tacked — has announced that the threat to our national security demands from all of us an unlimited loyalty, a cessa­tion of personal antagonism which the defense and protection of this nation require. 
ReflecU Doubt and Confunon 

Doubtiess this splendid gathering of young men coming from all parts of our nation reflects to some degree the doubt and confusion which has made even the wisest adult hesitant and perplexed. The spectacle- of sudden death for naaons many centuries old, the shock of this co­lossal machine war, the unparalleled threat of world domination by the new paganism — all these make difficult the attainment of that singleness of purpose and that faith in ourselves so necessary to a sound national life. 
But when our chief has pronounced the solemn words, "I declare an unlimited national emergency," the duty of every American is plain. We pledge allegiance to our flag and to the Bepublic for which it stands. 
But in this very act of allegiance, in this pledge of devotion which you and I and all loyal Americans make we state clearly that our Constitutional ric^ts of free speech, of free assembly and our freedom of religious worship shall be maintained in all respects. 
The builders of our supreme law showed their most profound wisdom in those sweet words of liberty enshrined in our Priceless Bill of Bights. If we lost those freedoms, the framework of our government would indeed become a skele­ton. Only too well do we know from the history of modem Europe how the si­lencing of the voice of protest was a pre­lude to national disaster. 
But in exercising that freedom of speech, which includes the right to criti­cize, we must each one of us try to ap­proximate a formula of which consdoice and patriotism must be the monitors. As best I can express it, the formula is: No criticism or complaint that primarily gives aid, comfort, or informaton to the enemy, actual or potential; only criticism or complaint when, by the standard of judgment or experience or both, the ac­tions or inactions of government are im­periling the success of its defense. This decision was made by Churchil], North-cliff and Lloyd George in 1915. They were constructive patriots in that what they said and did averted disaster. Should we fail to meet this test of the monitors of our conscience ^ d judgment, we are but copying our partisan critics intent upon a selfish purpose. 
However, criticism of the past smacks too much of pure politics which is dead. 
The past disappeared team controversy when the pronouncement was made that the country was in danger. To keep it alive .smacks of that human wish to say, "I told you so." But should the time come when our mind and our heart, our eyes and our ears, inform us that either the activities of our leaders or their inac­tion, their mistakes or bad judgments, endanger our common cause, then our conscience must speak and our tongue cannot be silent, for cowardice is not the lot of Notre Dame. 
Freedom is an act of the will based upon truth. We must have the truth and the whole truth if we are to be free. My dear young men, eternal vigilance was and is and always will be the price of liberty. 
The real test of the democratic process comes with the stress and strain of crisis. The democratic way is a hard way, be­cause essentially it is based upon the spiritual side of man. As Americans we . are proud that the ship of state has sailed on no matter how troublesome the times. Not in vain did the poet sing "Hu­manity with all its fears is hanging breathless on thy fate." 
' Thrilling Sight in London 

I shall never forget a thrilling sight in London when I witnessed the vigorous but fair and intelligent criticism of His Majesty's government in the important policies and administration of the war even as the air raid warning was sound­ing. The British well know that they could never deny at home what they claim to be fighting for abroad — the basic freedom of the individual. In the awful days ahead we must resolve to keep fitting that human righto be re­spected and our way of life be vindi­cated. 
We have witnessed in our lifetime the growth of a theory of living which denies every principle America holds dear. In the name of a "New Order" a small coterie of despoto proclaim that they have the secret for the world of tomor­row. Thdr formula is not new to our church or to our civilization. It but turns backward the clock of history. It espouses the view that man in himself is without dignity, that force in and of it­self is the sole arbiter of right. On this false code have been based policies and programs which have laid waste a large part of the dvilization of the world. 
In America, however, our proclamation is dear. We believe that there are rights 
— the righto of the individual. We de­daie that they are absolute God-g^ven ri^ts which the majority and the state (Continued on Pace 22) 
The Notre DameAlumnus 

The Baccalaureate Sermon 
By Rt. Rev. Mssr. Fulton J. Sheen. LL.D. "41 
Declares That Much in American Cvilization Does Not 
Deserve to Survive and that Essence of Americanism 
is Recognition of Sacredness of Human Personality. 
The greatest danger of a nation is that face to face with a crisis, it may sedc to save too much. Under the impact of war, the assumption is growing that we should seek to preserve the American way of life, just as it is and in its en­tirety. 
Is not our nation today very much like Peter on the mountain of the Transfigur­ation, who, seeing the face of Our Lord blazing as the sun and His garments white as snow as He spoke with Moses and Elias, cried out in the ecstacy of joy: "Lord, it is good for us to be here. Let us build three tabernacles: one for Thee, one for Moses and one for Elias." Peter felt that everything should be kept just as it was; that the present transient glory should be captured, and that the stattis guo should be preserved in its totality. 
Vision of Glory in Future 

But not' so with the Saviour. While Peter was saying: "Stay here on the Mount of the Transfiguration," Our Lord was practically saying: "Go to Mount Calvary." While Peter was contemplat­ing building tabernacles. Our Lord was talking to Moses and Elias of His death. Peter was concerned only with saving: but the Saviour's interest was in regener^ ation. 
Peter did not understand that the vi­sion of glory which he was bequeathed was in the future, not the present, and in order to attain it one had to take up a 
•Cross. There were two beats in the Tranfiguration: withdrawal and return. Withdrawal from the present glory for a cmcifiixon and a return to a greater glory because of it. This momentary de­tachment from present glory of the Saviour's was not a truancy to duty; it was a withdrawal according to plan to seize the initiative at another time and in another way. His attitude was like that of a soldier chosen from the rank and file for a greater mission, -and a greater glory through sacrifice. It was the spiritual confirmation of an old law, then as now forgotten, that greatest vic­tories are won only by the same sur­render of lesser glories. As the athlete withdraws himself ]^m the legitimate pleasures of h'fe, and disciplines his body in order to win greater glory the day of the meet, so too the Saviour suggested that Peter withdraw himself from the present, surrender the easy way out, go down to momentary defeat in. order to purchase true glory later on, for unless there is a Good Friday in our lives there will never be an Easter Sunday; unless there is a crown of thorns there will never be a halo of light; unless there is a scourged body there .will never be the glorified body. 
Decay Shows in Spots 

Are not too many Americans like Peter who say: "Lord, it is gfood for us to be here. Let us build tabernacles for all our customs, practices and philosophies." 
Is it not truer to say that the Ameri­can way of life is not something so good as to be defended just as it is; rather it is something to be amended. There is a hierarchy of values; the life is more than the meat; the body is more than the raiment and the whole world is not worth a single soul. Are we not to make a distinction between the good and bad?' Have we no sense of values? Do we realize that we are no longer a young and growing nation; we have b^;un to grow old, to soften and decay in spots. Hence we do not need the same kind of men now as when the nation was young. 
Rt. Rev. Msgr. Folton J. S1M«* 

In the early days we needed conquerors who would push back the frontiers of civilization; now we need saviours who will rescue us from decay; then we needed adventurers who would make new advances; now we need those who will play the more thankless role of saviour. There was once a time in our national life when we needed captains to defend the front line trenches;, now we need those who will recognize that possibly our front line trenches are not wortii presernng, and who will retreat as Christ did on the Mount, from a disinte­grating structure in order to take up de­fense lines from the back and there pre­pare for a greater offense and a gfreatei glory later on. 
Just as in this war battles are fought not on what mi{^t be called front lines nor by field forces, but behind the lines in services of supply, hidden air fields, home defenses, so too civilization' win be preserved today not by those who fight to preserve the material periphery, but by those who struggle to preserve the spir­itual center. 
Savins Sldn, May Lose Sonis 

Not everything is so good and perfect that, we should keep it in its totality; the ship of democracy will not sink because we knock off a few bamades; but there is danger that by seeking to save our skin, we may lose our souls. 
What I am trying to say is that in these days of crisis and challenge we should make an invaitory of what is es­soitial and non-essential; when the ship' is sinlritig we must not think of the cargo; when the house is burning we should' dash into it and save the diild; but not onr sport clothes; when Dor Lord announced the destruction of Jerusalem on the day whai the alxnnination of deso­lation would sit in the holy place. He said: "Go not back for your coat." It is not America as it is, that oug^t to be saved, but America as it ought to be, for in fhiese days of disintegrating cnttoies there is mueh in onr Western Civiliza-' tion that does not deserve to survive; we would, be better if it perished. Some things are not worth fighting for axe — 
A monopolistic capitalism, as de­fined by the Papal Encyclicals, which freezes credit, concentrates wealth in the hands of the few, excludes labor from a share in the profits, and considers the ri^ t to property so absolute as to be unbounded by its use, is not worth pre­serving. 
An economic system which under the cloak of organizing labor permits sub­versive groups and racketeers to infil­trate into its ranks either to serve for­eign political ends, or to enrich the pockets of leaders by filching from the workers their hard earned wages, is not worth preserving — Let it perish! 
No Right and Wrong I 
A system of education, which ignores, sometimes repudiates religion and moral­ity, which trains the intellect to the utter disregard of the will, which teaches that there is no such thing as right and wrong, and which in just one college in the United States hires at least twenty Communist professors who abuse Ameri­can freedom to destroy it — is not worth preserving — Let it perish! 
A legal system which declares that the State is the source of all rights and lib­erties, which affirms that education is the right of the state and not the right of the governed, which teaches that the laws of justice are the creation of the moods of the community at any given time, and that law itself is only the in­strument of power — that kind of legal system is not worth preserving — Let it perish! 
A social system which destroys the sacredness of treaties by permitting the break up of marriage through divorce, to the tune of one divorce for every five marriages and thus prepares for the de­struction of honor in international agree­ments and treaties is not worth preserv­ing — Let it perish! 
A system of tolerance which reposes upon indifference to truth and morality rather than upon charity and the sacred­ness of the person, and thus produces on the one hand a national impotency to deal • with fifth columnists, because if there is no wrong how can they be wrong, and on the other hand, breeds atheism, anti-relipon and anti-Semitism is not worth preserving — Let it perish! 
Let the trees in our national way of life die and fall; let the dead branches rot and perish, but the inner life and energy, preserve with all the ardor of our soul to give new branches and new leaves at another season and shade to the generation yet to be bom. 
And if there are certain things that 
are not worth fighting for, there are 

some things that are; above all else, that 
one thing is the foundation of our rights 
and liberties. The essence of American­
ism is not revolution, but the recognition 
of the sacredness of human personality, 
and the inherent inalienable rights which 
every man possesses independent of the 
State. That is why when our country be­
gan, our Founding Fathers were most 
anixous to find some basis for human 
rights, some foundation of human lib­
erties, some guarantee of human person­
ality which would be above encroach­
ments of tyranny and abuse. But where 
find the basis for the right of a man to 
be his own master, captain of his own 
soul, free in his right to pursue his ulti­
mate end with a free conscience? Where 
root and ground the right to own prop­
erty as the extension of personality? 
Where find the rock of all liberties which 
would be strong enough to withstand 
governments and powers and States 
which would absorb them as the mon­
archies did then, and as certain dictator­
ships do now? 
For such a foundation the Fathers looked first to England. There the theory was advanced that our liberties and rights are rooted in Parliament This theory they rejected on the ground that if Parliament gives rights and liberties, then the Parliament can take them away. 
French System Rejected 

Next they looked to France, where is was held that the liberties and rights of man are rooted in the will of the ma­jority. The Fathers equally rejected this on the ground that if the rights of man are the gift of the majority, then the majority can take away the rights of the minority. Where find the source of the liberties and the rights of man? On what stable foundation are they to be reared? What is their source? The answer they-gave was the right one. They thought the foundation of man's rights and liberties is something so sacred and so inalien­able that no State, Parliament, no dic­tator, no human power could ever take them away and so they rooted them in God. As the Declaration of Independence reads: "All men are endowed by the Creator with certain inalienable rights" and among these are "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." Note that the word used is "inalienable"; that means that rights belong to the sacredness of human personality and are not the gift of the State, or a dictator, either Fascist, Nazi or Communist. 
There was no question of ceding ri^ts as is the case in Kussia and Mexico. The only rights the citizens of those countries enjoy are those granted by the constitu­tion. With us, it is different. Man has rights and liberties previous to any con­stitution and because they are God-de­rived, and not man-derived, it follows that no State can ever take them away. That is why our government recognizes that the rights of man are broader than the Constitution' as is stated in Amend­ment 9 of the Constitution, "The enumer­ation in the Constitution of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people." 
In other words, man's right to own private property, man's right to educate his own family, man's right to adore God acording to the dictates o^ his conscience, come not from the Constitution, the gov­ernment, parliament nor the will of the majority but from God. Therefore no power can take them away. This is the essence of Americanism. Now, if the es­sence of Americanism is the sacredness of human personality as a creature of God, who is doing most to preserve that Americanism? The schools that never mention His name? The universities and colleges that dissolve the Deity into the latest ultimate of physics and biology? the professors who adjust their ethics to suit unethical lives? 
Non-Religious Schools on Defensive 

The answer obviously is, that the forces that are building constructive Americanism are those that take a prac­tical cognizance of the existence of God. It is the non-religious schools which are out of the tradition of Americanism; they are on the defensive. In the begin­ning of our national life practically all of our schools and colleges were religious schools. It was assumed by our Constitu­tion and by its spirit that they would be religions. The reason was obvious. If hu­man dignity and liberty come from God, then it follows that loss of faith in Him, means loss of faith in those liberties which derive from Him. If we wish to keep our forests we must keep our trees; if we wish to keep our perfume we must keep our flowers; if we wish to keep the light, we must keep the sun and if we wish to keep our rights, then we must keep our God. It is just as vain to keep triangles, without keeping three-sided figrures, as to try to keep liberty without the spirit which makes man in­dependent of matter and therefore free. 
Be not deceived by slogans about De­mocracy, as if it were like an heirloom which once possessed needs only to be preserved. Democracy is an endowment like life, and needs to be repurchased in each new generation. Democracy is not the luxury of civilization; it is not afBu­
(Continued on Page 20) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 


The Challenge to American Education 
Address given at the Alumni Banquet, Saturday, May 31, 1941 
Some say that Western civilization is sick, and needs a physician. Some say that it is dying, and deserves to die. Others say that it is dead, and that it is incapable of being revived. Be that as it may, the fact is that the world is turning to the United States for sooth­nig oil and healing balm. I wonder if we are in a position to answer its appeals for aid? 
Please do not misunderstand me. I love our country dearly, as you do. I yield to none in patriotism, whether in times of peace or war. I believe in unity of na­tional purpose, unity of thought, and unity of action, once our President and duly elected representatives have pointed the way. Yet I am a realist. If self-exam­ination is good for the soul of an individ­ual, it should be equally good for the soul of a nation. It is to this purpose that I address you tonight. 
The United States is still a Christian country, although it was once more Christian in thought and act than it has been in recent years. The early colonies left their ancestral homes in Europe and braved the wilderness because they wanted to worship God acording to the dictates of their conscience. From the very outset, they emphasized the relig­ious life. The first American colleges, notably Harvard and Yale, were founded to provide colonial youth with an educa­tion based on religious principles. 
For some time American education lived up to its Christian heritage. While it did, America was sound of heart — so sound that, in the Declaration of Inde­pendence, the foimders of our country recognized God as the source of all au­thority, under which man possesses nat­ural rights, and from which governments derive their powers. They gave the prin­ciples in which they believed a practical application in the Constitution of the United States. And I need not remind you that only religious-minded men could have written the Northwest Ordi­nance of 1787, which states: 
"Religion, morality and knowledge being necessary to good government 

by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, "16 
President of the University 
and the happiness of mankind, 
schools and the means of education 
shall forever be encouraged." 

Such were our beginnings. What has happened to the United States in the in­tervening years? The truth is that we are slowly being de-Christianized. We have not even the excuse that we have sold our heritage; we are wantonly destroy­ing it. The process can be traced directly to the philosophy of naturalism that has crept into the schools, from the primary grades to our colleges and universities. Naturalism denies God, and confines 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell. CS.C. 

man's destiny to this earth. It flatly con­tradicts the principles upon which the theory and practice of American govern­ment are based. The naturalists started out to deemphasize the American educa­tional legacy. They have succeeded only in deemphasizing America. They are destroying faith in God — the faith that made American institutions possible — at the very time that we are in gravest need of God and His grace. 
Naturalism rejects the concept of man composed of body and soul, created by God and intended for God. It sets up a complete paradox — a robot — a soul­less man that comes out of nothingness, and after a few years, returns to noth­ingness. While he is on earth he merely exists. He can not live, becaase he has nothing to live for. 
Meanwhile, however, the naturalist, perversdy proud of his handiwork, pumps the soulless man full of knowl­edge of a sort, but knowledge completely divorced from religion and morality. Not having an end, the naturalist must of necessity glorify means, just as he glori­fies man as supreme in himself. He con­jures up a confusing array of "sublima­tion theories," "I.Q. tests," "clock hours," and all the other legerdemain with which futile educators, tainted by naturalism, measure the results of their craft. 
The victims of naturalism — the boys and girls who must carry on the Ameri­can tradition of a Christian life — will list like ships without rudders. To the naturalist, this is logical enough. Of what use is a rudder to a ship that is bound for no port, but is content to drift endlessly on a sea charted only by "per­centile quotients"? It reminds me of the little child, who hadn't heard about the Master's death, and didn't even know He was ill — or the miner, who didn't know of Christ; he was sure that He had nevei' worked in any of his mines! 
In the face of this de-Christianization, we still wonder what is wrong with American civilization, or American life. We wonder why our young people have no objective standards of morality; why the largest class of criminals comes from the age group between fifteen and twenty-five; why divorce and race sui­cide are not only condoned, but are actu­ally encouraged. What else can we ex­pect, when so many of our people, from the cradle to the grave, try to get along without God? 
It is not too late to turn back, but we must turn back before it is too late. I am speaking realistically when I tell you that, in my opinion, this salvation of the United States depends upon a return to 
the sound education of the principles of our fathers. The future lies largely in the hands of American colleges and uni­versities. Happily one group — the Church-Eelated Schools — have always kept the faith. They can lead the way back, because these schools — our own alma mater among them — have re^ mained strongholds of a belief in God, the God-given rights of man, and the in­trinsic dignity of the human personality. 
Will we turn back to God? I think we wOl. I have confidence in the innate goodness of mankind, and I know from history that — no matter how far afield a people may roam — they always re­turn to the fold, somewhat chastened once they realize their utter dependence on a power greater than themselves. 
There are signs that America is at last aware of its folly. Our national leaders, faced with a grave crisis, give evidence that they know the need of a national spiritual awakening. Even more signifi­cant is the fact that leaders of State uni­versities, some of whom were once seem­ingly ignorant of the distinction between non-sectarian and irreligious, are now making public statements in which they plead for a return to basic morality as a criterion for human acts. 
Within the week. President Roosevelt gravely told the nation that we are threatened by a man-made ideology from without. We can not meet that threat, perhaps the greatest in our history with­out God's help. But if God is with us, no man can defeat us. 
And here is my challenge to American education. Before we can meet an enemy from without, we must defeat the enemy from within. Let us revive our educa­tional heritage Let us return to tHfe Christian principles that gave American democracy its life and strength. Let us stop the de-Christianizing process that has already brought ruin to Europe. What happened to the Faith in Europe can happen here, unless the spark of-Faith — that must still bum in the hearts of the most callous — is fanned into a fierce flame. 
Russia's godlessness began when the 
Communists destroyed religion in the 
hearts of Russian children. Hitler's "cap­
ture-the-youth" movement has created a 
new Teutonic mythology, to be worship­
ped by German youth. When Viviani 
tried to "put out the lights of heaven" 
in France, he turned to the place where 
they shone most brightly — to the boys 
and ^rls of France. When we restore 
the true concept of the ultimate end of 
man, the United States will have taken 
the first step in a true national defense program. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Notre Deune has always cherished the American — the Christian — tradition in education. Here knowledge based on religion and morality finds its true home. Here is the education of man "whole and entire" — body and soul, intellect and will. Here, on the shores of Saint Mary's Lake, is a harbor where American youth 
— even as in the days of Sorin — can learn not only how to make a living, but also how to live well so as to die wdL 
The triple unities, "for God, country and Notre Dame," are so deeply in­grained in every man who has recdived his spiritual and intellectual sustenance at Notre Bame, that I need not remind you of Alma Mater's courageous record in war and peace. I need only say that, as her sons, we can best serve our country by serving our God. However, the Uni­versity is cooperating with the govern­ment in a very tangible way. Aside from several faculty members who, during the' last year, have been released for govern­ment service — with an accompanying large number of students — we received notice only recently that Notre Dame is among the eight honored universities of the country that will have a Naval 
R.O.T.C. unit established next falL Nevertheless, I repeat that all Notre Dame men can best serve our country by serving our God. And I make this pledge: Those of us who are here at Notre Dame will do our utmost, by word and example, to fit the .students entrusted to us for the duties of Christian citizenship. 
Onward, therefore, men of Notre Dame — regardless of world events, re^ gardless of embattled nations and the clash of tanks and aeroplanes in the grim horrors of war! By the example of your lives, give a ringing challenge to the world that you "live not by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God." Conflict be­tween the sword and the spirit should iind you strong in heart, and equal to any engagement that the iniquitous sword may bring. 
Onward, men of Notre Dame, in the interests of your beloved country — ac­tive in the crusade to strengthen this na­tion from within — so that it can stand any thrust from without! Thousands of your fellow citizens are still sitting in the darkness of idolatry, waiting for the lightning flash that will bring God into their souls and basic morality into th ^ daily lives. Be evangels, therefore, of a "God in our country" movement that will help to revitalize America and save .the principle of democracy. The challenge to American education is also your chal­lenge. Be not found wanting. 
Onward, men of Notre Dam^ and up­ward! Onward with your marching step, upward with your eyes to heaven! Souls are won through the might of the Cross, that takes the life to save it. If misun­derstanding and suffering appear in the unpredictable future, remain steadfast and become cross bearers in a very realis­tic way. And, while you go along the highway of life, keep looking upward, so that your eyes may pierce the mystic veil of the clouds, as you meditate on the emptiness of all this fleeting show. 
Step into the arena of an embattled world, that has forgotten its God, and breathe forth the solace and comfort that it needs. And for further inspiration, re^ fleet often on the statue atop the gfolden dome, as so beautifully expressed by G. 
K. Chesterton, in his poem written while he was visiting lecturer at the Univer­sity: 
"I have seen, where a strange country Opened its secret plains about me. One great golden dome stand lonely with 
its golden image, one Seen afar, in strange fulfilment. Through the sunlit Indian summer 

That Apocalyptic portent that has clothed her with the Sun. 
She too looks on the Arena, Sees the gladiators in grapple. She whose names are Seven Sorrows and 
the Cause of All Our Joy, Sees the pit that stank with slaughter Scoured to make the courts of morning 

For the cheers of jesting kindred and the scampering of a boy. 
• 'Queen of Death and deadly weeping Those about to live salute thee. Youth untroubled; youth untortured; 
hateless war and harmless mirth. And the New Lord's larger largesse Holier bread and happier circus. 

Since the Queen of Sevenfold Sorrow has brought joy upon the earth.' 
'Queen of Death and Life undying Those about to live salute thee; Not the crawlers with the cattle; looking 
deathward with the swine. But the shout upon the mountains Of the men that live for ever. 

Who are free of all things living but a Child; and He was thine.'" 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Executive Secretary's Report 
June I, 1940 to June I, 1941 
Two major issues oversliadow the program of the Association as the ;ear 1941-42 besins. 
Hist masie fisore, 1942, introduces the CSenten­nial note. Full announcement has already been made by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., '23, Vice-President of Notre Dame, concemins the ob­servance of the Centennial during the school year 1942-43. Detailed announcements and the part alumni and the Alumni Association -will play in these observances -will be made as developments permit. 
Conscription provides a distinct challense to the Association. 
Identity of our alumni as Notre Dame men can­

not be suspended for the duration of an emer­
gency like the present one. 
We must rather intensify our identity as Notre 

Dame men. 
Tlie principles of Notre Dame, and the inspira­tion of Notre Dame, are more vital to the man in the service than they may be to him in normal 
Ute. 
On the other hand, the exigencies of military service an4 the curtailment of income for many of the younger men will make their contribution to the Association program more difficult to give, more difficult to get. 
Cooperation — with the men in service, and with the men out of service, will be needed as never before so that the Association may meet this first major part which it is most happily en­dowed to play in the defense of the American way 
— which is the Notre Dame way — of life. 
^ e Alumni Association of the University .of Notre Dame has enjoyed a good year. 
Not phenomenal — most of the program can be clnsscd as established. 
Not profitable — the University's subsidy of the "AlumnnsT' is all that stands between us and a substantial deficit. 
But good, — in the sense that the program has shown tigns of a maturing altmiiu mind. The re­sponse, while not general enough, is of the type that ultimately will command the interest of the majority. 
Projects have reflected a coming-of-age for the Association. 
It may be best to resort to the familiar point listinff to ensure proper coverage and mention of the many phases of work that go into the rather general term. Alumni Office. 
1. Four full-time persons, and since February a fifth, are trying to handle all of the administra­tive and clerical work of the Association. Several part-time students have been of considerable as­rislance through the Universty's interest Wliile this is a larger staff than in relatively recent years, the fact is that work has multiplied. There are ^wroximately four executive divisions. Ahmmi mr k itself, the details, correspondence, records. Clubs, Classes, contacts, should receive full atten­tion. Second is the "AInnmns." A full time editor could do many things for the planning and editing of the magazine that your present staff cannot do. Third is placement, a service that is growing rapidly and that does not permit elas­tidty. Fourth is promoUon, the natural ntiliring of ahmni contacts and interest in the mainte­nsnee of a high type eapadtr enrollment of stu­dents. Part of this work is obviously semi-Uni­versity in nature. And the University supplies half the staff. But all of the work has definite alumni significance, and furthers the devdop­ment of the Assodation. 
2. If you are interested in statistics, 746 new alumni were added by the June and Summer grad-, uations of 1940. Each of these graduates meant the entry of his name five times in the various forms of listing in the Alumni Office. 
Eight issues of the "Alumnus'* have been published. Three of them went into additional pa^es beyond the planned 32. 
For the first time, the Office kept some track of its turnover. From February 13 to Hay 25, the following figures indicate the difficulty of being as personal as we might like: "Alumnus" en­velopes addressed, 43,600; bills addressed, 8,809 (also stuffed, etc.) ; postcards addressed, processed, mailed, etc. 1,747 r dictated letters, 707: class let­ters, receipts for dues, lists, etc, 7,079; Domes mailed to high schools; 120; packages requiring . special wrappings, etc., 58. 
3. Placement has been moving along, within its limitations, with added interest from both the undergraduate and the employer, and with en­couraging cooperation from tiie 13 Clubs whidi have already appointed Placement Chairmen, and several others which contemplate the move. The improvement in employment generally does not relieve the basic purpose of the program, which 
~ is to see that Notre Dame men have not only jobs, but the right jobs for them. 
4. The 18th Annual Universal Kotie Dame Night, with the national radio broadcast out of the outstanding meeting sponsored by tlie Notre Dame Club of Chicago, brought this annual in­stitution of the Association to a new hi ^ plane. Local observances in all parts of the country re­flected the strength that has become inherent in the Clubs themselves. 
6. Promotion, which has suffered some neglect in the emergency pressure of competing interests,' was conducted to the same extent as in the previ-* ous year, but the uncertainty of the conscription legislation, and the problems of parents indicate some need for more attention to this phase of onr program. Capacity enrollment is not an end in itself, so much as a capadty enrollment of boys best suited to the opportunities of Notre Dame. It is in this phase that alumni offer a unique, an in­valuable channel of contact for a school of Notre Dame's national character. 
6.
 There is growing need of a new Legal Di­rectory, the additions and corrections noted in \be "Alumnus" having almost exceeded the original list. 

7.
 In line with Directory needs, the Assoda­tion has asked for data for a Centennial Diree­tory. The difficulties involved in the mobility of a large ntmiber of our members in tl»e serviee may make the project doubtful for the immeffiate future, but it is definitely a project for early • realization. 

8.
 "nie annnal Old-Timers monogram reunion was held in conjunction with the Athletie Assoda­tion on the occasion of the Georgia TeA game. 

9.
 The Alumni Office worked as usual with several campus ftmctions of annual alumni intep-


II 

est, the laymen's Betreat, the Football Banquet' ^in g outstanding. 
10.
 The Assodation again purchased two copies of the Hitfdi^ts of the 1940 football season, for sbowinc among the Notre Dame Clubs. 

11.
 This year the Alumni Office, in conjunction with the University, arranged an evening smoker and buffet for the sons of alumni. There were 107 direct descendants of ahmmi on this year's roster, as against 70 a year ago, indicating the rapid rise of this interesting group within the student body. 

12.
 Various services to individual alumni, lists, rooms in private homes for week<«nds in South Bend, recommendations, transcripts of credit, etc, have increased in number. 

13.
 The part the alumni and the Assodation win play in the forthcoming Centennial has in­volved some preliminary thous^t and several meetings already, and this phase of our program win andoid>tedIy become a major one in the year ahead. The University is anxious to offer alumni tiie best opportunities for enjoying the outstand­ing events of the Centennial, and to enlist their partidpation wherever alumni aid will further the program. 

14.
 Another rising tide within the Altmui Of­fice is the list of Notre Dame men in the service Almost daily the list of camp addresses grows. It is 'our object to maintain as accurately and cur­rently as information permits a complete list of alumni in every branch of the service, and to keep to the best of onr ability contact with these men so that news of Notre Dame win reach them. during their period of service. 

15.
 Tour Assodation continues to be repre­sented in national alumni develc^ment. Your Sec­retary continues as president of the National Catholic Ahzmnl Federation. Notre Dame was rep­resented at the national convention of the Ameri­can Alumid Coondl held last June in Frend: lidc, and at the District meeting of the same or­ganizatimx held in Chicago in January. 


. A nnmher of things have stood out during the year. 
The presentation by the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland of a dieds for one thousand dollara ($1,000) to tits University as the beginnint; of a seliolarahip fund for the Cleveland area renews tiM Club activities in this field on a sound basis. 
The Notre Dame Club of 'Western Fennsyhrania (Pittsbors^) has already made arrangements for a preseittatioa of a similar foundation, beginning with two thousand dollars ($2,000) in June of Ofa year. 
Bay J. Kdly, *15, last year national commander of the American Legion, spoke on Hay 8 to the 1941 Senior-Ahmmi Banquet, the 621 members of the Senior Class being present, together with tlie President of the University and the Deans of the Calkgea. 
Ahmmi attendance et the annnal Laymen's Be­treat on the campus, August 1 to 4, broke aU records. 
The Knots Boekne film, with its South Bend World premiere, and its many Club affiliations, brought the Assodation considerable work, wel­come and rewarded by the picture's popularity. 
The Ahmmi Board instituted two major inno­vations for the 1941 Commencement — a're^s­tration fee, — nominal in view of the large at­tendance of young men, — and the commence­ment forums for ahnnnL 
Through tiie Atnmnl Office, several data and ahmmi dded in the distribution of a set of pam­phlett for high sdwols selected by the 'Notre Daoa Stodent Coandsdon for Decent literature. 
^potni^ alumni, the regular, department of the 
"Alumnus," has jfiven well merited recognition to a substantial group of alumni daring the year. 
Resignation of Elmer X^ydcn, '25; appointment of Frank Leahy. '31: the creation of the director­ship of public relations for J, Arthur Haley, '26; the stepping up of Herbert R Jones, '27, and Robert Cahill. '34, as a result; the calling of Robert M. Riordan. '24, registrar, to the army; appointment of Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., *20, as his successor; — all these posts being in close contact with the Alumni office, have caused considerable intra-mural activity during the year. 
Ilicse, and the hundreds of incidents of indi­vidual and Club acti\*ity, recorded to the best of our ability in the pages of "Alumnus" under story, Club and Class notes, bear out, better than any comment could, the claim of the growth in mind and body of the Association. 
Modest support, financially, will result in the development of this very encouraging trend up­ward. 
Frankly, the Alumni Office would be inter­ested in knowing of any organization which rep­resents so much for so little — outside religious societies. 
To President Ray J. Eichenlaub, and to the Board of Directors, the Alumni office pays tribute for an earnest, ably directed administration. "While many of the'phases of alumni work are almost institutional in character, their progress depends on understanding by the Board. And this year the Board showed initiative and interest by the in­troduction of the several new projects mentioned above. 
We are on our way, in the right direction." It is your way, and we can only go as you permit. But it seems safe to say that you are realiz­ing the merit of our objective, and the speed of realir^tion is being increased. For what you have done, and for what you will do, thank you. 
For the Deceased Alumni 
Jane 1. 1940 to June 1. 1941 
"Whereas God, in His •w-isdom. has during the past year taken from this life the alumni herein­after listed, and 
"Whereas these memhers have served their Alma Mater with fflory in their respective avo­cations. 
"Be it resolved that this Association crtend its heartfelt sympathy to the relatives with promise of prayers that the same God, in His mercy, will be generous to their souls and grant them that eternal rest which we all so earnestly seek. 
"Be it further resolved that an expression of the above be written into the official records of the Alumni Association and a copy sent to the bereaved relatives." 
Anderson, Robert M., "83, CSrcIeville, Ohio Appleton, Bobert F., ex. '42, Independence, Ohio Arehart, Norbin, '26, Louisville, Ky. Asclage, Frederick, ex. '44. Sidney, Ohio Baker. Henry L., ex. '31, Williamsport, Pa. Beaud, Frank F., '90, Chicago, 111. Best, Arthur C.. 1901-03, Milwaukee, Wis. Brookfield, Edward V.. '11, Chattanooga, Tenn. Burke. Rev. Joseph H., C.S.C.. '04. New Orleans. 
La. Burns, Very Kev. James A., C.S.C., '88. Notre 
Dame, Ind. Byrne, Kevin J., ex. '37, Seneca Falls, N. Y. Caesaire, Brother, C.S.C., Notre Dame. Ind Campbell, Patrick F., 1893-95, Indianapolis, Ind. Conroy, John Joseph, '31, Bridgeport, Conn. Conroy, Most Eev. Joseph H., LLD., '24, 
Ogdensburg, N. Y. Davis, James Carey, ex. 'Al, Winnetfca, HI. Deeter. Lawrence, ex., '27, Wabash, Ind. Dean, John P., '40, Milwaukee, Wis. 

Hartin. Bev. William B., LL.D., '28, New Dexter, Francis H., '87, San Juan, Puerto Bico Delana, George W., '14, Chicago, 111. 
BocheUe. N Y. Diver, J. Raymond, '25, Indianapolis,-Ind. 
McDonald. Patrick J.. 1873-75. Fort Wayne. Ind. Dockweiler. Dr. Robert R., '29. Los Angeles, Calif. 
HcElroy. Wilbur, '26, Norwalk, Conn. Donahue. AVilliam M., '14, Indianapolis, Ind. 
HcGlynn. Bobert E., '23. East St. Louis. 111. Duncan, Mark L., '15, Chicago, III. 
HcGovem, Roger J., '33, Bridgeport, Conn. Dwyer, Rev. Vincent D., '00, Terre Haute, Ind. 
HeGnire. William A., 1909-10, Beverly Hills, Calif. Farrell, Francis G., '30, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
HcNichols, William J., 1899, Chicago, IIU McNnlty. Maurice D., '26, Uuncie, Ind. 
Feig, Ralph S., '07, Mishawaka, Ind. 
McWeeny, James L., 1899-01, Gillespie, HI. 
Ffrench, John P.. '34, Astoria, L. I., N. Y. 
Medley, Thomas A., '98, Owensboro, Ky. 
Foik, Rev. Pnul J., C.S.C., '07, Austin, Texas Meehan. Martin F. ex. '15, Glendale, Calif. 
Fordyce, Robert E., ex. '42, Gilman, 111 UorrisoB, Carlos A., ex. '37, Wayne, W. Va. 
Fox, Oscar A., '07, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Murray, Dr. Michael E., '26, Cambridge, Mass. 
French, Rev. James, C.S.C., '90, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Magler, Robert D.. ex. '38, New Orleans, La. 
Freeman, CapL Richard S., ex. '29, Fairbanks, Nugent, Donald T., ex. '27. Algona, Iowa 
Aljiska 

Naughton, Joseph B., 1895-98, New York CHty Girten, Hon. Michael F., el. *14, Chicago, 111. 
Neeson. John T., 1883-84, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Goodrich. James P., LLX).. '17, Winchester, Ind. 
Newning, Samuel D., '14, Corpus Christi, Texas Guthrie, John W., '85, Alliance, Neb. 
Nierer, Charles M., 1895-98. Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Haller, Eugene J.,-'37, Con'allis, Ore. 
Noon, Eugene F., '24, South Bend, Ind. 
Hickey, Dr. Philip F., ex. '30, Smethport, Pa. 
O'Brien. Dr. William A., '28, Passaic, N. J. 
Hoover. Samuel C, 1869-71, Lafayette, Ind. 
O'Connell, Bt. Rev. Msgr. John T., LL.D.. '06, Jennings, Rt Rev. Msgr. Gilbert P., LL.D., "08, 
Cleveland, Ohio Toledo, Ohio Jones, Major Keith K., '15, Hawaii PSyton, Eugene J.. '23, South Bend, Ind. Kegler, William C., '98. Cincinnati. Ohio Pliska, Joseph S., '15, Chicago, III. 
Kizer. Noble F., *25, Lafayette, Ind. Pope. Clarence J., 1891, Bunkie. La. Kohn, John J., '38, New York City Prudhomme, Edward C, '90, Bermuda, La. Lane, CapL Laurence J., early 1900*s, South Bend. Ruff. Fayetta F., '29, South Bend, Ind. Ind. 
Sabinus, Brother, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. Leahy, Richard F., '38, Minneapolis, Minn. 
Schcib, Burton, formerly of faculty. South Bend, Linehan, Joseph A., ex. *25, South Bend, Ind. Ind. Maas, Dr. Rudolph J.. 1874-76. Houghton, Hich. Schillo, Frederick J.. '94, Houston, Texas MacManns. Theodore P., LL.D., '14. Detroit, Hich. 
(Continued on Page 17) 



Financial Statement of the Alumni Association of the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
June I. 1940. to June I, 1941 
Balance on hand on June I, 1940 $ 696.74 
Total receipts of the fiscal year (primarily under the single contribution olan. with several hundred dollars in­cluded from film fees, ticket refunds, etc.) 12,622.60* 
Total receipts from June I. l940toJune !. 194! 13.319.34 Expenditures, June I, 1940, to June I, 1941: 
Miscellaneous (covering representation at one national and several regional meetings; the University ac­counting office charges; office supplies; telegraph, and the daily demands for details as varied as they 
are numerous) 1,650.44 
The Ave Maria (printing other than the "Alumnus") 638.37 Salaries (two full time employes and two employes in part on the Association payroll) 6,485.00 Adding machine trade-in ... _... 42.00 
P. V. Goutcer Co., 1941 lapel emblems for contributors 347.35 Highliqhtsof 1939 football games (for Clubs)..._ 175.20 Postoffice, Notre Dame, mailing "Alumnus," stamps, etc. 1,082.86 
. Football tickets (refunds listed under revenue) '. 140.10 
Total expenditures, June I, 1940, to June I, 1941 $10,561.32 Balance on hand May 31, 194! $ 2,758.02** 
* and *• The number of contributors for 1940-41. 2,673. was smaller by 123 than the number of contributors for 1939-40. a discouraging prospect in view of the fine showing of the Gass of 1940 which took up a lot of slack in the default of the elders. But some of the temporary drop may be attributed to adjustment to the new system. Total con­tributions for the year just closed, in spite of the fewer number, exceeded 1939-40 by $420.93. The 1941 balance is only larger than usual because of the University's assump­tion of the cost of printing and engraving of the ALUMNUS. The .Association, in justice, continues to need and need badly MORE CONTRIBUTORS and LARGER CONTRIBU­•nONS. 
James E. Armstrong, '25, 
Secretary-Treasurer 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 




Harry Kelly, '17, Leads New Administration 
Officers Give Association Broad Representation in Geography, Class Affiliations and Alumni Baclcsround; Program Calls For Study and Work by Entire Board. 
Harry Kelly, '17, the popular Secretary of State of Michigan, was dected pres­ident of the Alumni Association by the constituency in the mail ballot of late Spring. 
If it becomes tiresome to hear that the nominations were of such high caliber that the Association stood no chance of losing, and that one splendid thought is that the defeated candidates remain loyal and willing alumni, the only explanation the ALUSINUS oifers is that the facts are there, annually, just like that. 
Supporting the new president are many familiar names whose mention al­most connotes a lengthy biography for alumni familiar with the records. 
Honorary President — and it will be no mere honor this year—^is Most Rev. John 
F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., Au.Kiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy. In his constant visiting of the armed camps of the United States, Bishop O'Hara stands to see more of our alumni in the course of the year than any other officer of the Association. And his popularity, his ac­quaintance with the boys, and his genius for omnipresence, promise to relieve the Board of much of the problem of contact with alumni in the services. 
First vice-president is Frederick T. MahafTey, '17, Indianapolis, Ind. As pres­ident of a finance company, the Alumni Office certainly welcomes this new mem­ber of the Board. Custom has placed the first vice-president in the position of fi­nancial advisor. If Freddie's ideas don't work, then our credit with the Consoli­dated Finance Corp. will stand us in good stead in the dark months at the end of the fiscal year. The Indianapolis Club will feel, with the stimulus of new spurs, the continuing contribution to its program of one of its veteran and popu­lar members. 
Second vice-president, to whom tradi­tion now delegates the special field of the Local Clubs, is the Hon. Alfonso A. Scott,' '22, judge of the Superior Court of Los Angeles, Calif. A] stands on his own rec­ord of interest and achievement, both at Notre Dame and in the live long-distance Club of which he has been a constant member. But the fact that he is the son of Joseph Scott, honorary alumnus of 
President Harry Kelly 

1915, and long a sharer of his talents with Notre Dame, at least guilds the lily a lit­tle and bears mention. The ability of Los Angeles to pursue a fine Club program against the handicaps of distance gives the new vice-president a fine start toward his particular problem — re-vitalizing and stimulating our Local Clubs this year so that 100 Active Loyal .Local Alumni Clubs will blow simultaneous trimipets to herald the Centennial, which means by the end of Al's term next June. 
Director for the four-year term, suc­ceeding the loyal and valued Frank Mc-Keever, '04, is the Rev. Michael L. Mori­arty, '10, Mentor, Ohio. Father Michael's counsel in an alumni board meeting will undoubtedly be as constructive as such cotmsel can be. He is a monogram man, an active alumnus of long standing, a highly respected priest, a frequent visitor to Notre Dame and to the gatherings of alumni, and above all, this rich back­ground has been tempered with a fine human spirit and a high sense of humor. The entire Board, old and new members alike, look forward to the participation of the pastor from Mentor. Father Mich­ael has had experience in the fiield of organization which will be invaluable to the Association, particularly in the light of his long acquaintance with the alumni, young and old. He is also a member, if a commnnting one, of the active and vital Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. 
And with two Clubs claiming the alle­giance and time of President Kelly—^De­troit and Central Michigan (Landng) — it looks like a Club year. 
Say Eidienlaub, '15, continues on the Board for another year as Director ex­offido, so that the value of his year of leadership may not be lost. 
Together with a Director for the Class of 1941, and the holdover members of the Board, the heavy program of the As­sodation looming for the year ahead, would seem to be in familiar and capable hands. 
President Kelly is planning a meeting of the Board this summer to perfect de­tails of the year's affairs. 
As always, temptation being strong and secretarial nature weak, the success of the program, with these or any other officers, esn only go as far as your par­tidpation permits. You've done a swell job on the ballot. Now, if you haven't made your contribution already, go back and hunt up that blank check that came with the ballot, and finish the job of en­trusting your Assodation to the men you voted for. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 


While Alumni El<e and Cope 
By DANIEL C. O'GRADY. PhJ). Professor of Philosophy 
(Ed. Note: Because this is a period of intense action; because college -men everywhere may find their thinking chal­lenged, their theory discounted, and their background ridiculed, the ALUMNUS takes particular pleasure in presenting this scholarly and interesting paper by Daniel 
C. O'Grady, professor of philosophy. Nor is it without merit as a reference for those inclined in such periods to ques­tion the value of higher education.) 
(1) A situation. 
Evidence from a variety of sources in recent months would seem to indicate a deplorable distrust of theorists, a sense of the irrelevance of academic questions and of the futility of the immanent ac­tivities of the ivory tower. Furthermore this Pyrrhonism has been manifested in rather unexpected quarters and on the part of men who are themselves hardly to be described as men of action. Con­sider the following samples: 
"How this revamping is to lie accomplislied. practically under file, is left somewhat vague, all the more so because Author Mumford, by habit, intention and idiom, addresses iiis exhortation to the one group in the U. S. which is least capable of acting on it — the liberal intellectual." — From a review of "Faith for Li\*ing" by Lewis Humford in "lime." Sept. 2, 1940; p. 65. 

"But because the men at this conference were mainly professors, the conference was doomed from the start to fail. For professors meet only to defend their sacred right to diSer, their delec­tation in doubt. l%eir tolerance is only the price they pay others for the privilege of listening to tiionselves." — From an editorial commenting upon the then recent Conference on Science. Phil­osophy, Bellt^on and Democracy" in "The Com­monweal.' Sept. 20, 1940; p. 439. 
"We are not persuaded that the cause of Fhn-American solidarity can be furthered by covering white paper with learned articles which only the fswest of subscribers will trouble to read," — From an editorial replying to the suggestions of a corre^Kmdent for promoting Fan-American co­operation, in "The Chicago Tribune," Nov. 17, 1940. 
"We've got to consider the truck drivers in the present hour, rather than the intellectuals." — From a criticism of T. S. Eliot as a "royalist medievalist, fasost and anti-democrat with no clarity on human issues," by Carl Sandburg as re­ported in "Tune," Nov. 4, 1940; p. 61. 
"^ e influence or power of the newspaper edi­torial is definitely on the wane; . . . and, if so, is it to be expected that the columnist will prove any more successful than his anonymous prede­cessor?" — From an editorial entitled "New*, papers and the Election" in "The Saturday Re­view of Literature," Nov. 16, 1940. 
"Yours is the typical academic view of the col­lege professor; mine is a realistic, practical out­look." — Paraphrased remarks of Col. Frank Knox on the University of Chicago "Bound Table," Nov 12, 1939. 
. To the extent that these expressions were earnestly intended, we are con­fronted with an urgent and a basic prob­lem because, as Gilson puts it: "when men begin to despair of philosophy . . . the only means they still have to escape scepticism are moralism or mysticism or some combination of both." 
(2) What is an intellectnal? 

There are of course many derogatory notions as to what an intellectnal is. When we call an intellectual "a man of thought" there are always those who think that we thereby deny that the man of action is intelligent. Such a mistaken opinion naturally accompanies the un­complimentary conception of the intel­lectual as a cultural snob, a pedant, a highbrow or "one who was educated be­yond his intelligence." 
According to Prince Peter lieven: "The word intelligentsia was coined at the end of the nineteenth century by the minor Russian author, Boborikin and soon became a term defining members of the professional classes with left poli­tical tendencies. After the Kerensky Bevolution, the word acquired a defi­nitely derogatory connotation in Bolshe­vist as well as emigre circles." Similar overtones and suggestions are associated with such labels as "literati," "cognos­centi" and "intellectuals." If it were merely a matter of nomenclature we might with Julien Benda resuscitate the titie "clerks." But the issue is not only one of terminology. Perhaps it is a resi­due of the frontier spirit or of what James Truslow Adams once called "the mucker pose." There has indeed been a tendency in America to leave "culture" to the women's clubs. 'Only eight years ago when there was much spoofing about the so-called "brain-trust" the i«»hers and Mdders failed to answer the simple question: "And what is wrong about brains in government for a change?" 
In a chapter entitied "The Treason of the Intellectuals" which he contributed to the symposium Behold America!, in 1931, C. Hartley Grattan wrote: "In pop­ular usage an intellectual is anyone whose habitual occupation is with ideas." This recalls Aquinas's statement that "contemplatives are not those who con­template but those who devote their whole life to it." The best recent defini­tion which this writer encountered is to be found in the Dictionary of Psycholog} edited by H. C. Warren wherein the "in­tellectual type" is described as "an indi­vidual who is preoccupied with abstract and theoretical problems rather than with social, political, industrial, economic or physical activities." 
(3) Who are the intellectuals? 

Without naming individuals one may endeavor to delimit the field to some ex­tent at least. Many journalists including columnists and popularizers are perforce excluded because of their superficiality (pace, this editor; and, present company always excepted). It is no reflection upon them, except when they siet themselves up as pundits, mentors, cicerones, etc. It is an exigency of their craft that they merely report, describe or interpret what is hoe, hie et nune without ever really explaining anything. There is, of course, a difference between the writer for a daily newspaper and the staff of a weekly, monthly or quarterly journal of opinion. CJonader, for instance, the dif­ference between a genuine dramatic critic and a inere theatrical reporter or reviewer. 
In the second place one should omit orators and demagogues as-being emo­tionalists rather than thinkers; they re­semble Antony rather than Brutus and may be more immediately successful in thdr influence. In the third place, to be strict, we should eliminate from the cate­gory of intellectuals as such, creative and imaginative writers (poets and novelists) because they aim primarily at beauty rather than truth. Bemember the distinc­tion between poetry and science (Words­worth), between literature of power and 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
literature of knowledge (DeQnincey) and between books that are books and books that are not books (Lamb)! 
Properly entitled to the designation "intellectual" should be most professors, editors, authors (in the sense of writers of nota-fiction), scholars, critics, his­torians, philosophers, theologians, scien­tists and all experts and specialists in the realm of speculation. Of course these different types of intellectual should not be confused with one another. Moreover there will be among the members of this company many sciolists, dilettanti and plain Charlatans. Like the captain who hates the sea, I have known quite a few so-called professors who hate books. 
(4) Oculists treating ear-aches; lay­yers curing measles. 

Before we consider any such question as "Why cannot these intellectuals agree?", it is important to note that there exists today widespread confusion as to the points already raised, viz., "what is an intellectual and who are these intel­lectuals." Henry Hazlitt made up a list of the "intellectual rulers of America" in The Nation (Sept. 10, 1930). It is pos­sibly even more important to answer this question than to discover the solution of the more frequently posed problem as to "who owns America?" Among the twenty-one contributors to the symposium / Be­lieve which was advertised as a book of philosophy, there were ten poets and novelists, four scientists and only two philosophers. Much the same conditions obtained in the earlier series entitled 
Living Philosophies. 
One of the great sources of error in our time comes from not knowing who is an authority or the authority in a par­ticular field. The layman in his confusion asks his questions of the wrong people. He has forgotten the. lesson he once learned in the grade-school primer from "The Blind Men and the Elephant" by John Godfrey Saxe. Because of the vari­ous orders or degrees of what we may call (by analogy) abstraction or speciali­zation, the elephant seemed to be a wall, a spear, a snake, a tree, a fan and a rope according to the field of observation or concentration of the different blind men. ''Though each was partly in the right, all were in the wrong." 
The student who has had the benefit of training in Scholastic method, never fails to distinguish between what is tech­nically known as the ohjectum materiale, the objectum formate quod and the o6­jectum formate quo. In other words the division of labor exists in the field of thought as well as in the world of af­fairs or economic and industrial activity. Not only are there different provinces 
(subject-matter) but there are different approaches and points of view within the same field. For example, -within the fidds of botany and zoology, which differ in subject-matter there are in each ease two basic viewpoints or approaches pos­sible, viz., the morphological, which con­cerns itself with structure, and the physiological, which deals with functions. Likewise the chemist uses energy to "get at" the matter in which he is interested, while the physicist uses matter to "get at" the energy which is his special con­cern. 

The same landscax>e can be simultane­ously viewed by a farmer, a geologist, a sportsman and a painter from four dif­ferent viewpoints. The first of these four observers considers the fertility of the fields; the second has in mind the forces erosion, diastrophism, etc., which caused the contours of the same ground; the third ponders the desirability of these acres for hunting or skiing; and the fourth simply absorbs the beauty of the scene with no regard for ntiUty or ex­planation. Each observeir may be logically questioned about the same object of per­ception but 'only within the field of his own competence, that is from his special point of view. 
There is a story of a judge who was seated by the shore of a lake. Beside him was a rowboat which he owned. A stranger approaches the judge and asks if he may borrow the boat. The latter agrees and upon being blamed by a third party for the drowning of the stranger — because the boat had a hole in it — he justifies himself with the true de­tachment of a legal specialist by saying: "The condition of the boat was a ques­tion which was not brought up before me." This illustrates the dangers of spe­cialization or rather the perils of the layman or civilian who depends upon the expert. 
Similarly, the late Sir J. A. Thomson rightly insisted that scientific methods were comparable to fishing nets and that just as different procedures and techniques in science were employed to study different types of phenomena, so different fishing nets were adapted to the catching of different types of fish. But the layman usually forgets this, and the mind of the man in the street has fession of a pantheistic creed, although that savant is a specialist in physics and not in theology or philosophy. Perhaps the mind of the man in the street has been corrputed by the same fallacious appeal to pseudo-authorities as he en­counters daily in testimonial advertising. Madame De Luxe recommends a certain brand of cigaret and although she is not a physician or a specialist on respira­tion, the common citizen and customer is supposed to infer that his proletarian hings and throat are not likely to suffer injury it her paitridan tonsils are by her own admission nnimi>aired. 
The layman who looks to the novelist for a philosophy of life or who thinks that a mathematician has the answer to metaphysical questions deserves a scold­ing quite as much as the little boy in the following example The teacher presented a problem in which the pupil was-to de­termine the time involved when a ball of a certain mass was propelled with a certain force. Upon asking what was the color of the ball, the pupil was told that his inquiry was foolish and irrelevant. But (as in the case of Eddington's fa­mous example of the elephant sliding down a rassy hillside wherein for pur­poses of physics the problem is solved in terms of mass, coefficient of friction, an­gle of declination, .etc., with no regard for the elephant's feelings) sometimes it is the color of the ball that concerns us most. The layman must first learn, then, 
(to transfer our examples into another field) that the economist, as such, ignores moral issues but in real life such issues are more basic and important than any merely economic, sociological or political considerations. On moral matters prop­erly speaking, the social scientist has no jurisdiction and his verdicts are witra vires. 
(5) The role of the intellectuals. 

The layman, pre-occupied with mun­dane matters and quotidian concerns which he calls "practical problems," is apt to think more often and more highly of what Bacon called the fructiferous re­sults of science than with its luminifer­ous effects. For him victuals are vital. Primum vivere, postea, pkilosophare. But while he coi)es with life and ekes out an existence there are those who, living a more immanent life, supply the world of affairs with mental food. These producers of intellectual nourishment are the in­tellectuals and from them ideas, princi­ples and theories percolate down through the intelligentsia and through the popu­larizers in journals and reviews to the schools, the newspapers and the man on the street. The concepts and ideolo^es which originally derive from these semi­nal minds are j&equently distorted, cor­rupted and perverted by the time they reach popular circulation. Indeed, in the history of ideas, it is frequently a twisted version of some doctrine or outlook that attains to general distribution and is then implemented, applied or translated into action. A doctrine or theory has finally become a program, plan or iwlicy. 
But pure science^ in some form, pre­ceded applied science — technology, en­gineering, invention and industry. NihU 
(ContiiiiKd on Page 26). 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 


N. D. Film Nears Completion 
Clubs May Obtain Copies Through the Alumni Office. 
Seven days of uninterrupted cloudy skies doggedly postponed the final cam­pus shots necessary to complete the Uni­versity 16 mm. sound movie, "The Story of Notre Dame," now four months in the making. However, all film processing and editing •wiU be completed by late July, and any interested Notre Dame club or similar organization, will then be able to obtain copies of it for presentation be­fore their group, by writing to the Alumni Office at the University. 
Jim Armstrong, alumni secretary, has suggested that to avoid a bottleneck in distribution of the iilm to interested groups, some alumni and some of the large Notre Dame organizations, like the Clubs in Chicago and New York, might buy copies which they in turn could lend out to smaller groups. Copies of the film sell at |100 each, and may be obtained through the Alumni Oflice. This price was based at §20 for each of the three 400-foot, ll-minute reels of black and white film and §40 for the closing color reel of the same length, by the Warren Bros. Studios of South Bend, photogra­phers and processors of all the film work. The movie has been made intentionally short to close comfortably an afternoon or evening program of the clubs for which it was conceived. 
Plans have been made to produce a Spanish counterpart of the English movia This edition will be taken to South America for presentation this summer by the Notre Dame delegation to the Pax Romana conferences to be held in Bogota, Colombia, and later in Ecuador, Peru 
NOTES ON SUMMER 

The Alumni Office staff suffers just so long under the slings and arrows of its friends and then truth emerges. The alumni of the Commencement week-end, the departing pedagogues, and most re­cently the local clergy on retreat, have broken the camel's back. 
We do not have all summer off. 
This is not our easy season. 
We are Tiot hard pressed to find some­

thing to do. In the first place, our mail hasn't been answered, outside emergency status, since before the Commencement rush. Bookkeeping, thank heaven, is simi­larly in a condition known today as bot­etlenecked. 
and possibly other countries. Eduardo Alcayaga, graduate student from Chile, will translate into Spanish the English narration ^vritten by Eev. John D. Gal­lagher, C.S.C, '33, of Breen-Phillips HaU. Bev. William F. Cimningham, C.S.C, '07, faculty director, is produc­ing both editions. 
Conceived as a thumbnail characteriza­tion of the Notre Dame student life, the picture is now being molded from the numerous shots taken, into the terse co­ordinated product originally planned. The motif of the film is threefold: re­ligious, intellectual, and recreational. 
Beginning with a visual explanation of the position of Notre Dame in the entire Catholic Educational system, and a syn­optic review of the 100 years history of the University, the narration and action then make a brief pictorial visit to the Notre Dame campus and buildings. Uni­versity life is then treated from the three aspects mentioned as a day from the life of a student is featured. This treatment is followed in presenting the salient features of student daily life, study and recreation. 
As all of the activities of the sdiopl year lead into spring the scenes change into color. Commencement and all of its attendant ceremonies pass in review and the narration fades" as God, country and Notre Dame, the three loyalties of every Notre Dame student, are symbolized by closeups of the Sacred Heart Church spire, the flag and the statue of Our Lady on the Dome. 
IN ALUMNI OFFICE 
The 621 Seniors just out are b^ng carded, plated, listed, magazined and billed, some 3,105 processes. 
New officers are being told, tactfully, the grief ahead for them for the yearl 
Placement • continues, emphatically, through the summer. Until this year most of the calls were from the job-seekers' side. This year the employers are writing more letters. But the net re­sult in total work to be done — corre­spondence, telephone calls, checking, double checking — is about the same. 
Summer School is here with more than 500 Sisters, who, wth some 700 alumnae, are more or less the object of the cooper-­ation of the Alumni Office — defying, by administrative wiles and a rampant chisel, the old philosophical adage ex nihilo nihil est. 
Flans have to be made with the Ath­letic Association to serve to best advan­tage the hundreds of alumni ordering football tickets. (The preferred list has to be ready for checking by Aug. 1 when the sale opens.) 
The Office has a weather eye turned on enrollment, with a horse saddled in case a quota falls short. 
Plans for Clubs must be made during these months. 
Father Cunningham's picture, the long-awaited sound film of Notre Dame, will be ready in the month ahead, with problems of distribution to the Clubs. 
Bills wia have to be sent to 7,000 of you by July 1, and to another 6,000 at least again, by Aug. 1, because that many of will be broke, or ^vill be careless, or will be away, or will tell your secre­tary not to bother you with anything but first class mail. And yet, if you don't get on the preferred football ticket list be­cause your contribution isn't in, you're very surprised and are sure you didn't get a notice. 
Father John Cavanaugh is going to remember one of these days that the Centennial opens next June, and then the local machine, of which this Office is a part, will be tossed into high gear. 
The problem of how to keep track of the boys in service is one what is gray­ing the Office hairs a bit, because we feel particularly obligated as a matter of both morale and record to preserve these con­tacts. And no method appearing to date looks easy. 
We want 100 Active Local Clubs by June, 1942. That means that about 20 present Clubs will have to wake up, and another 20 rise up. That, my friends, is not done by spontaneous combustion. 
The Office path crosses the paths of several new officials — Acting Registrar Father Connerton, Director of Athletics Frank Leahy, Director of Public Rela­tions Art Haley, Dean of Law Clarence Manion, etc. While none of these is a stranger personally, happy the day, nevertheless officially they enter our labyrinth from brand new directions, and there is an element of the native guide about the Alumni Office staff in portions of the fields covered. 
If we distribute our two-weeks vaca­tions during these next two months among the faithful here at the back of the Main Building, overlooking what Pro­fessor Kervick so appropriately described as the 'French Quarter," we shall be pressed for time so that the summer will merge into the first whistle of the Ari­zona game xvitb all too little of that loaf­ing for which nature so generously en­dowed us. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Seniors Receive Class Day Awards 
Medals and Cash Prizes Are Given For Accomplishments. 
Twenty-five awards for scholastic ex­cellence to 1940-1941 students of the Uni­versity were announced by the Kev. James McDonald, C.S.C, faculty chair­man of the University scholarship com­mittee. The awards were presented on May 31 in connection with traditional Class Day exercises. 
Medal prizes were announced for the following students: The Breen Medal for Oratory, Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, Chicago; the Meehan Medal for Best English Essay, Kussell L. Harris, Little Rock, Ark; the J'eanne D'Arc Medal for excellence in French, Brother Etienne Cooper, C.S.C, Altoona, Pa.; the Cer­vantes Medal for best essay on Cervan­tes, famous Spanish author, Robert C Ronstadt, Los Angeles, Calif.; the Jac­ques Medal for Excellence in Fine Arts, Salvatore D. Andriacchi, Ishpeming, Mich.; the Architecture Medal to the senior with highest average for the com­plete course in architecture, Robert A. Nolan, Louisville, Ky.; the Kervick Gold Medal for Architecture, John B. Carney, Des Moines, Iowa; the Electrical Engi­neering Medal, founded by Professor Jose Angel Caparo, '08, for the senior with the best four-year record, Charles 
G. Oliverps, Jr., St. Augustine, Fla.; the Martin McCue Medal for Excellence in Civil Engineering, William C Wilson, Chicago. 
Cash awards for superior work in en-g^ineering, science, playwriting, architec­ture and journalism were presented to: 
John W. Patterson, Pittsburgh, Pa., the J. Sinnot Meyers Burse for general excellence in journalism; Felix Pogliano, Jr., Denver Colo., the William Mitchell Memorial Award to the student who writes the best play of the year; Herman 
S. Altman, South Bend, the Miles W. O'Brien Prize for excellence in mechani­cal, drawing; Charles C. Brogger, Grand Rapids, Mich., John J. O'Brien Prize for excellence in shop work; James A. Champley, Taylorville, 111., George L. O'Brien Prize for excellence in chemis­try; Robert S. Pelton, Evanston, 111., the Msgr. Francis A. O'Brien Prize for spe­cial study and distinction in a historical subject; Edward B. Kunkle, South Bend, the Father Cavanaugh Prize for the best biographical sketch of a personage who 
has contributed to the upbuilding of the 
University; Charles Robert Honser, 
C.S.C, Youngstown, Ohio, the Charles 
Phillips Prize for best essay on a his­
torical subject; John L. Considine, Jr., 
Sharon, Pa., the Father Charles L. 
O'Donnell Prize for a historical iessay. 
In the College of Law, the CoL William 
J. Hoynes cash award for general excel­lence in law was given to William Fran­cis Mclnemy, South Bend, and the Gallit­zen A. Farabaugh cash prize for high scholarship in law went to Harold C. 

.Blakeman, South Bend. 
The Cavanaugh-Goodrich cash prizes 
HONORARY 
The University of Notre Dame an­nounces the conferring of the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa. 
On a great priest, so well known to all of you that a citation of him might be thought superfluous, an author of books with something in them and teacher of philosophy at the Catholic University of America, a master of radio who by his several series of national broadcasts in the Sunday Catholic Hour has become an apostle of fundamental truth concerning human life to millions of every creed and no creed and maker of a goodly company of converts to the true faith, for many years a fast friend of Notre Dame, whose latest favor is the memor­able baccalaureate sermon to the Class of 1941 this morning — the Right Rev­erend Fulton John Sheen, of Washing­ton, D. C. 
On another distinguished priest and 
prelate, who has done much toward the 
propagation of the faith by his zealous 
and efficient promotion of foreign mis­
sions and who for years as assistant sec­
retary and now as general secretary of 
the National Catholic Welfare Confer­
ence is rendering most important service 
in achieving good understanding and 
right relations between our national gov­
ernment and the church — the Right 
Reverend Michael J. Ready, of Wash­
ington, D. C. 
On a Catholic layman and public ser­
vant, eminent from young manhood by 

for excellence in oratory were presented to WiSiam J. Hanford, C.S.C., Chicago; Robert W. Galvin, Evanston, HL, and Jolm E. Walsh, Milwaukee, Wis. 
The Byron V. Kanaley prize to the senior monagram athlete adjudged the most exemplary as a student and as a leader of men was awarded to Ralph Raymond Finelli, San Frandseo. 
Keys f6r participation in public debate as members of the Wranglers, Notre Dame forensic society were awarded to Thomas McGee, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Ed­ward Meagher, Seattle, Wash.; Freder­ick Holl, Honesdale, Pa., and Mark Lies, Riverside, HI. 
The 1941 Dome awards for outstand­ing achievement in extra-cnrrilcular ac­tivities to seniors with excellent scholas­tic records were presented to Raymond Kelly, Jr., Detroit; Francis A. Doody, Oak Park, HI.; Thomas F. Carty, Yon­kers, N. Y^; John £. Burke, Sioux Falls, 
S. Dak. 
 DEGREES. 1941 
rare executive ability in the management 
of large business enterprise, which 
proved to be training for difficult posi­
tions of federal government administra­
tion, first as chairman of the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, then as 
chairman of the Maritime Commission, 
finally in the most important position of 
American diplomacy as ambassador of 
the United States to the Court of St. 
James in London during the years of 
world crisis between 1937 and 1940, and 
in private life withal no less eminent as 
the model head of a model Christian 
family — the Honorable Joseph Patrick 
Kennedy, of New York City. 
EXECUTIVE SECRETARVS REPORT 
(Continued from page 12) 

Senn, Baiph W., '24. Chicago, 111. ' 
Sextan, John T., '33, Indianapolis, Ind. 
Shea, Eev. Michael J , '04, Ossining, N. Y. 
Solon, Kt. Eev. Msgr. James A, '84, DeKalb, 111. 
Stace, Sister M. Francis, C.S.C., '23, Mt. St. 
Joseph, Ohio Stange, William J., late 1880's, Chicago, liL • StuhUaath. George, '00, Wausau, Wis. Sullivan, John C, '22, Xronwood, Mich. Terence. Brother. C.S.C., '33. Chicago. HI. Thiele, R t Rev. Msgr. Charles H., 1879-81, Fort 
Wayne, Ind. Thomas, Elias G., '28, Lorain, Ohio VanSant. Dr. L. K.. 1895-1901, Peoria, III. Vaughan, William M., ex. '11, Lafayette, Ind. Vennet, Prank H., late 70's, South Bend, Ind. Wile. Frederic W., 18SS-91, Washington. D. C. 
Old N. D. Kitch en Razed 
Scene of the Famous Four-Comered Pies Is No More. 
Alumnus 
Rumble of the old "hash-carts" . . . 
scurrying of the white-coated boys to 
whom this turmoil was part of the sym­
phony of their education at Notre Dame 
. . . the four-cornered pies . . . the all-
hour coflfee-pot ready for the priest, pro­
fessor -or student who had missed, for 
any and all reasons, the regular meal 
Sister Assumption and Sister Lourdes, 
whose 40 years in the kitchen of Notre 
Dame made no story new . . . the turn­
table that day in and day out and year 
in and year out enabled the changing 
armies of Notre Dame to move.. . . 

These pictures and others dotting the kaleidoscope of the years passed in 1927 with the opening' of the new Dining Halls. 
But they recurred again in many memories this June, perhaps to pass now permanently into the immortality of tra­dition, when the long-promised revamp­ing of the back campus began. Falling bricks, and screaming naUs, protesting after all these years in favor of the pur­pose and the efficiency of their makers, marked the razing of the Old Kitchen. The rest of the building that was the Ave Maria Press has been strengthened and will hold the storage space, and the shop space that the growing maintenance problons of Notre Dame demand. 
But the Kitchen is gone. In the snaps acompanying this story, the last look at the historic spot is recorded by the cam­era, and beside the venerable turn-table stands Sister Eose, still active in the lit­tle Holy Cross Convent adjoining the old Kitchen and the Laundry, after a period of service at Notre Dame going back to 1878. 
A new Laundry, like the new Dining Halls, rdieved in recent years the im­possible physical burdens of food and clothing that were once the province of the Sisters in this Convent. But in the history of Notre Dame, one of the chap­ters with highest spiritual content will inevitably tell the story of the wearing work, the faithful years, the deep hu­mility of soul, and of mind, and of body, that brought these holiest of nuns into the unsung service of generations of Notre Dame men. 
To alumni fed from this fountain, the syntheses of Father Nieuwland take but slight precedence over the syntheses that went between the crusts of the famous four-cornered pies. Nor does the brilliant research of the Metallurgy Department offer any hardness more intriguing than 
The Old Kitdwn ms it bcKsn to disappear ami 

Sister Boae. at Notre Dune lince 1878, inidr the 
ramons tam-taMe. 
the crust of Brother Willibroi;d's buns. 
Reluctantly, if inevitably, these older Notre Dame men offer a Vale to this cradle of the sound bodies in which for generations the University moulded the sound mind. And with it goes an Ave for the repose of the souls it sheltered — not so much that they need it, but that they may keep it in their wanning ovens to give, as they always gave, to the sleeper-in and the skiver. 
22 In Ordination Class 

Twenty-two members of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross were ordained, to the priesthood during the month of June. Twenty-one of the yoimg men were or­dained at solemn services in Sacred Heart Church on the campus, Sunday, June 15, by the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind. This was one of the largest classes of recent years. 
An annual feature of the ceremonies this year was the ordination of two pairs of blood brothers, Thomas F. '37, and Patrick J. '37 Peyton, C.S.C, both of Scranton, Pa., and John J. '36 and Jo­seph E. '37 Haley, C.S.C, both of Se­wickley. Pa. Others in the group or­dained at Notre Dame with the home towns of their parents are: William T. Morrison, C.S.C.,'37, New York City; Raymond F. Cour, C.S.C., '37, Springs 
field, ni.; John J. Foley, C.S.C, '37, Cen­tral Falls, R. L; William J. McAuIiffe, C.S.C., '37, Bellows Falls, Vt.; Charles 
R. Callahan, C. S.C, '37, Paterson, N. J.; Joseph L. Powers, C.S.C, '37, Enid, Okla.; Erwin W. OrkiszewsW, C.S.C, '37, Chicago; Gerald F. McMahon, C.S.C, '37, Binghamton, N. Y.; George E. Shi­dd, C.S.C., '35, Girard, O.; Clement H. Fnnke, C.S.C, '37, Tipton, Ind.; Thomas 
F. Cnnan, C.S.C, '37, Germantown, Pa.; Joseph S. Miller, C.S.C, '36, Memphis, Tenn.; Louis S. Furgal, C.S.C, '37, Chi­cago; James G. Anderson, C.S.C, '37, Portland, Ore.; Uoyd W. Teske, C.S.C, '33, Merrill, Wis.; William B. Ford, C.S.C., '33, Douglas, Ariz.; John H. Wil­son, CS.C, '32, Chicago. 
Joseph M. Doherty, C.S.C, of New Brunswick, Canada, was ordained at a special ceremony in the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception at St. John, N. B., Canada, on June 12. 
Major and minor orders were con­ferred on students of the Congregation of Holy Cross studying in Washington, 
D. C, by the Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, DJD., CS.C, 11, military delegate at Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C, on June 14. 
CS.C. Negro Missions 

Two Notre Dame priests. Rev. Francis Weber, C.S.C, '31, and Rev. Francis Sul­livan, C.S.C, a classmate, have won, in separate fields, respect and admiration for their work with the Catholic negroes. 
In South Bend, Father Sullivan has just dedicated a lovely little church on West Washington Street, which houses the growing colored congregation his zeal and that of the pioneer missioner to the local negroes, the late Father George O'Connor, C.S.C, developed. 
And in Austin, Texas, Father Weber, with hammer and saw, as well as with faith and liturgy, has worked what is considered locally something of a miracle. He started with two colored Catholics. Today, he has grade school up to the third grade with 40 students. A .school building he had planned and begun, he turned into a neat, white, frame hospital, with 224>ed capacity and an eight-bas­sinette baby ward. His school he con­ducts, with the aid of Father Thomas Cnlhane, C.S.C, '31, in the church base­ment. 
- Inevitably, these priests have pursued their work under the most dire financial handicaps. They are constantly in need of outside support. Alumni need not look outside our own. Congregation program for worthwhile causes. These are but two instances of recent note. There are other projects — the Bengal missions, the Mexican missions, etc., — of similar merit. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Naval R. O. T. C at N. D. 
University Co-operates Fully in Defense Plans. 
Notre Dame's outstanding record in the nation's wars of the past stands to lose nothing in the present national emergency. 
The Naval K.O.T.C. will begin on the campus next Fall. 
Several faculty members and many students, and several chaplains of the Congregation, are already in service. 
The U. S. Army air corps is organiz­ing a Enute K. Bockne squadron led by Notre Dame men. 
A special group of Notre Dame men are taking the Marine officers training work at Quantico. 
A special safety engineering course for foremen, to speed up and make safe the defense program in St. Joseph Valley industry, is being conducted through the facilities of the College of Engineering. 
The CAA continues to offer aviation training to students. 
And the Commencement witnessed the induction of a group of Notre Dame men into the naval aviation cadet ranks. 
And as rapidly as opportunities to serve America arise, Notre Dame accepts them with the patriotism of 99 years, always stressing to the students and the community, through the faculty and ad­ministration, the necessity for preserv­ing those principles which are funda­mental not only to America, but to Chris­tianity and to all free men. 
The inclusion of Notre Dame in the United States navy program for estab­lishment of eight new naval reserve offi­cers training corps may result in the training of 250 students at the Univer^ sity next semester to be naval reserve officers. The expansion is in line with the navy's program for increasing the University units' enrollment from the present level of 3,055 to 7,200, according to Secretary of Navy Frank Knox. 
The new units will bring the total in the country to 27 as compared with nine a year ago. Congress last September au­thorized the enrollment increase to 7,200, the full authorized limit to be reached in the 1944-45 school year. Notre Dame is one of the schools at which courses will commence with the fall semester. 
Average enrollment at each school will be 250. The enrolment for the academic year of 1941-42 is expected to be 4,600.. 
Members of the units will be reserve midshipmen. Upon graduation, one mem­ber of each class vidll be offered a regular navy commission as ensign in the supply corps. The others will be commissioned as reserve ensig^ns, and wiU be eligible for extended active duty. 
The undergraduates will study special courses comprising condensed versions of instruction given naval academy mid­shipmen in such subjects as navigation, ordnance, gunnery, communications, sup­ply and engineering, and will receive credit for them toward their bachelor degrees. 
A small amount of weekly drill will be included, to give the reservists some training in handling groups of men un­der arms and there will be one-month summer cruises to translate the class­room work into practical training at sea. 
ISIwiwiMMiiiiMlliiiinnniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilliiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH""""'""""'*"""'"***''*'—*fl 

GIFTS 
I The University acknowledses with deep gratitude the followins gifts: | 
I  Anonymous, for the Bureau of Economic Research­  ^15,000  |  
Anonymous, for the Graduate School.  1,000  I  
Mr. Herman Fdgenheimer, of Chicago, for the President's Fund  100  I  
Mr. Grattan T. Stanford, of New York, for the University Library.  

Seven volumes of Spanish Law, 1775-1789. 
(Sig.) J. HUGH O'DONNELL, CS.C, President of the Univetsity 
• ltIlllll"Ultlllllllllllllllllllll""l"HHnM"Mn"MU"« 

El""! 
»9 


SPOTUGHT ALUMNI... 
One of the latest and proudest mem­bers of the fast growing army of father and son alumni is Walter A. Stevens, CJi. '05, Topdoi, Kans., who was on the campus for the Commencement to see his son, Thomas F. Stevens, '41, receive his 
Walter A. Stovmu, 'OS 

Mr. Stevens is assistant engineer in the office of the chief engpneer of East­ern lanes for the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway System. His life has been filled with railroading. Joining the Pennsylvania System upon his gradua­tion from Notre Dame, he later worked for the Kansas City Southern RaOway. From 1910 untU 1915 he was with the city engineering department of Kansas City as assistant engineer on sewer con­struction. 
After a year and a half with the Penn­^Ivania in his native Logansport, Ind., Mr. Stevens joined the Santa Fe in 1917, and, with the exception of six months with the Kansas City Terminal on valua­tion work, la s been there ever since. Until 1925, when he assumed his present position, he was office engineer on con­struction work. 
Lay Trastees Meeting 

Fourteen lay members of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame board of trustees held their annual meeting in the confer^ ence room of the Rockne Memorial Fri­day afternoon,- May 2. Preceding the business session the board members were entertained at lunch by Sev. Hn£^ O'Donnell, C.S.C., 16, president of the .University. 
BACCALAUREATE SERMON 
Continued from Tase 8) 
ence which obscures injustice by the com­parative comfort of the oppressed; it is not a license which allows freedom to be destroyed by invoking rights without duties. 
Christianity has a new battle before it; it is no longer with scorn that calls itself Scepticism; no longer with dilletantism which masquerades as Learning; no longer with injustice which calls itself Progress — but with the new Pride which would free governments from the moral restraints of God and authority. In the hour that is dawning the Church must defend democracy not only from those who enslave it from without, but even from those who would betray it from within. And the enemy from within is he who teaches that freedom of speech, habeas corpus, freedom of press, and academic freedom, constitute the essence of democracy. They do not. They are merely the accompaniments and safe­guards of democracy. Given a freedom which is independent of God, independ­ent of moral law, independent of inalien­able rights as the endowment of the Di­vine Spirit, and America could note itself out of democracy tomorrow. How can we continue to be free tmless we keep the tiraditions, the grounds, and the roots upon which freedom is founded? We could not call our soul our own unless God exists. Why, we would not even have a soul! Democracy has within itself no in­herent guarantee of freedom; these guar­antees are from without. That is why I say our Declaration of Dependence on God is the condition of a Declaration of Independence of Dictatorship. 
Decline of Patriotism 
The decline of patriotism in America is due to a decline of religion. As men cease to love God, they also cease to love their neighbor. No one proves this better than Matthew, the author of the first Gospel. He was at one time as unpatrio­tic a citizen as ever lived; his land was overrun by a foreign power, his fellow citizens lost many of their civil and po­litical rights — and yet he welcomed the foreign power to his bosom for the basest of all motives, financial booty. He became a publican that is, a collector for the Romans, thus not only selling out his countrymen, but even filching them to en­rich himself by becoming subject to the invaders. One day while collecting his taxes and counting his profits, our Di­vine Saviour passed by. "Come, follow Me," He said to Matthew, and Matthew, with no other promise than a peace in the Kingdom of Heaven, became an apos­tle, an evangelist and a martyr. He be­
came more than that — the greatest pa­triot in the Gospels. His Gospel might be called the Gospel of Patriotism. Tire­lessly, he unfolds the glories of his peo­ple, the traditions of his land, and the prophecies of its spiritual triumphs. Time and time again he goes back to the past, turns over the pages of Isaias, Jeremias, Micheas, David and the Kings; ninety-nine times to be exact, he quotes from the glorious pages of his people, and crowns it all with the thrilling message: You are a great people! From Israel comes the Saviour; from our clouds come the Messias; from our earth the Re­deemer. Hail! Christ is your kind. 

He became a patriot because he found his God. 


1941 Football Ticket Information 
Alumni Are Aslceei To Read The Resulations Carefully. 
Although most of you know the pro­cedure and regulations concerning foot­ball ticket allotment, we reprint it here at the request of the Athletic Association and many alumni. 
Season Tickets 

The sale for season tickets for home games opened June 20. Since the season ticket group are in a preferred section, alumni are given no special attention in the season ticket allotment, for obvious reasons. The season ticket entitles the holder to a choice seat in a preferred section at a reduced price, the same seat for each home game, and the right to re-reserve the same location in the season ticket section from year to year. This year the season ticket covers the follow­ing home schedule: 
Sept. 27—University of Arizona. Oct. 4—Indiana University. Oct. 25—^University of Illinois. Nov. 22—^University of Southern California. 

The price for this year's season ticket is $10.00, plus Federal tax. Season ticket forms have been mailed. If alamni who have not received such forms are interested in them, they should write at once to the Football Ticket Committee, Notre Dame, Ind. 
General Alumni Sale 
The following covers the pertinent points in regard to almuni sale. A line to the Alumni Office or Athletic Office will bring any more specific information desired. 

1.
 Ticket applications for the 1941 football games will be mailed approximately July 20. Ike sale of tickets will open Ane. I. 

2.
 Applications vnll be mailed to all alumni on the "Alumnus" mailine list, at the address used on that list. If you have not received your blanks by AuB. 1> notify the Alumni Office. 

3.
 Applications are printed expressly for alumni, ^t h the word Alamni across one end. These are the only blanks which receive deck­ing for alumni preference, so please be sure to use them. Givins the alumni blank to a non-ahnn­nus is of no advantage to him because of this checking. 



4.
 Alumni whose contribution to the Associa­tion for the year 1941-42 (payable as of June 1, 1941) has been made, will receive preference in the allotment of four tickets each until Sept. IS, or antil all tickets have been sold for any partico­lar same. The nature of Notre Same's business relations with other institutions on the schedule makes it impossible to guarantee orders from a preferred group after an announced selI.out. Please note particularly the time limit on the granting of alumni preference. 

5.
 As in the past, several of the games on this year's schedule loom as sell-outs. Alumni are therefore urged to order their tickets as soon as blanks are received; and, if preference is desired, to take care of their contribution to the Associa­tion simultaneously, if they have not already done so. 

6.
 General public order blanks for tickets are available to anyone upon request. Alumni are urged to use them for additional ticket orders. Many tunes it is an inoculation against the *'you­can-get-good-tickets.get.me-some" germ simply to answer such requests with application blanks. Tlie Athletic Association will immediately send general public blanks to -any name and address supplied. 


1. Hie box seat price for home games is $S.50. A season box of a x seats may be had for tl32.00, including tax, which comprises the same box for eadi home game. Box seats may, of course, be purdiased individually, at $5.50. 
The Athletic Association asks that some consideration be griven to the prob­lan confronting the ticket office in as­signing orders that arrive comparatively early. Oftentimes, particularly for the Army game, even orders arriving on Aug. 1 find themselves a bit downfield, due to the vast flood of orders received on that opening date. 
No doubt curiosity as to the new coaching staffs methods will this year swell the already good attendance that Notre Dame has enjoyed for many years. With this in mind, the Athletic Associa­tion earnestly requests your continued cooperation in observing the foregoing procedure and regulations. Preference is granted to four large groups — alumni, students, season ticket holders, and visit­ing team. Any deviation from the above preference groups is made only in the best interests of the Uiiiversity. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


C. E. Manion, *22, New Dean of Law 
Thomas F. Konop, Dean Since 1923, Becomes Dean Emeritus and Professor of Law; Change Brings Promi­nent and Popular Alumnus-Professor-Orator to Tof: 
Clarence E. Manion, A.B., A.M., Ph.M., J.D., long a popular professor of law, a nationally popular orator, an author of growing prominence, and an authority on history and constitutional law, was an­nounced on June 18 by Eev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the Uni­versity, as the new Dean of the College of Law of the University of Notre Dame. 
At the same time, concerning Thomas 

F. Konop, Dean since 1923, recipient this year of the Alimmi Association Award to a member of the lay faculty for outstanding service. Father O'Don­nell stated: 
"After many years of faithful service to the University, Professor Thomas F. Konop has asked to be relieved of his duties as dean of the College of Law, and his request has been g^raiited. I am happy to announce, however, that Mr. Konop will remain as professor of law and, because of his loyalty and devotion to Notre Dame, I am designating him dean emeritus of that College." 
The March, 1941, ALUMNUS carried an article describing in some detail the progress of the College of Law under the able guidance of Dean Konop. The genial and dynamic Dean contributed much to the College itself, and was a respected leader among the members of the lay faculty. The many alumni of the College, as well as all of the Notre Dame family, join in paying tribute to his years of service, and in rejoicing that he will con­tinue as a member of the faculty of the College. 
Academic dignity will find some diffi­culty in reconciling the familiar 'Hi, Pat," with which alumni since 1921 have greeted the new Dean. As a "deferred" Notre Dame man — Pat had received an 
A.B. from St. Mary's in Kentucky, and a double-dip Masters (Arts and Phil­osophy) from the Catholic University of America, — Pat took hold at Notre Dame with a personality that soon caught up and passed his fellow students. A mem­ber of the Glee Club quartet, a speaker who charmed all audiences, by the time he received his J J), in 1922 his identity as a Notre Dame man was indelibly 

Dean BfaaioB 

stamped, and has grown more vivid with the passing years when he became a pro­fessor of law. This latter capacity has been shared with various professional and political ramifications inevitable in the light of his talents. He has a law 
Dean Emeritus Konop 

ofBce in South Bend, and has served re­cently as Indiana State Director of the National Emergency Council. Author of a history of the United States, Dean Manion is more recently the author of a text-book called "Lessons in Liberty," which has won wide acclaim for its pre­sentation as a text and for its brilliant content in thefield of education in democ­racy and its principles. 
The College of Law of the University of Notre Dame is the oldest Catholic college of law. Its record extends over a period of years from 1869. But its achievement is best judged by the alumni of the College spread throughout the United States. 
Alumni will be confident, under the new alumnus-Dean, of the continuation of this progress. 
In its 72 years the College of Law has enjoyed the Erection of a very small, but very able and outstanding group of men 
— CoL Hoynes, Dean Vurpillat, and Dean Konop. The illustrious company is ably supplemented by the new Dean. Oi>­portunity is knocking loudly on the beau­tiful doors of the Law Bwlding at Notre Dame. Under Dean Manion, as under his predecessors, there is no fear of the knock going unanswered. 
THE CENTENNIAL 
In answer to many queries, and to forestall much misunderstand' ing, the "Alumnu/' repeats a pre­vious announcement — the Uni­versity Centennial witt BEGIN with formal announcement at the Commencement of 1942. The en-stung Summer Session and tKO­demic year will be filled with special observances, reaching their climax, and the CLOSE of the Centennial year with the Commencement of 1943! 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
THE COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS 
(Continued from Page 6) 

itself must respect. Never forget that democracy can be a much abused and misunderstood term. But that democracy to which we profess allegiance is far dif­ferent from the arbitrary mass tyranny which looks upon the will of the majority as the only law. There is no magic in counting noses. Our democracy springs from "truths we hold to be eternaL" These are the rights of the minority, of the individual himself, which cannot be frustrated. These, in essence, are based upon the moral law which, in the last analysis, wiU come to judge even the state itself. 
Your studies here at Notre Dame have taught you much wisdom. You have learned that which the world forgets day after day, year after year, and century after century — that lessons of what are the enduring values and what are the passing fantasies. St. Augustine has told us that "wisdom is nothing but the knowledge of the relationship of things." The poet teaches: 
"Only the actions of the just 
Smell sweet and blossom in the dust." 

No mirage of novelty has been given to you young men, but rather a stem and manly sense of the fortitude of faith. 
Trend* of Dixcipline 

One would have to be a disciple of Follyanna not to know that in modem education there are developing trends of indiscipline which bode evil for our na­tion's future. In the name of Collectiv­ism we are being taught that the quali­ties of the individual are unimportant as against the claims of the omnipotent state. 
The shift of emphasis of responsibility from the individual to government is an example of a dangerouus trend. The world is on the move, and against the tide of collectivism no one can raise an effective hand. But it is not against the mere growth of the state as a more ef­fective agent for social justice that we protest; it is the spectacle of the state allocating to itself the exclusive right to judge the morality of its own conduct. This is like the heresies of old which started by the approval of some element in truth, but which finally led by exag­geration to error and finally to the com­plete denial of truth. 
By this shift of responsibility the po­litical end has come to justify the means. Occupants of public office in many parts of the world, easily convincing them­selves that they are almost divinely se­lected to administer the state, have too often put aside ethics and the rooted moral standards because they believed that by so doing they advanced the inter­est of the state or a so-called liberal cause. From this viewpoint the transition is simple to the broken promises and ag­ressions which make up almost the entire public history of the dictator countries. The philosophy of Notre Bame, which has become part of you, insistently de­clares that no wrongful act changes its odious quality regardless of the cause in which it is enlisted. My dear young men, only by insistence on re-assertion of moral values and intellectual honesty among our public men can we maintain the important blessings and benefits of the democratic system. 
Democracy in government has become nearly deified. By distortion, government has become a thing apart, as if govern­ment could be self-contained and self-functioning, apart from the character of its people The exaggerated emphasis upon rights, upon the negative protection of individual personality, and this shift­ing of financial responsibility from the individual to government, reveal a lack of understanding of the essence of de­mocracy which is the protection of the individual personality from dictator or demagogue. People imderstand that ghrase as an expression and proclaim it loudly, but they fail to understand that the true meaning of human personality is vital to an understanding of the his­tory of democracy. That personality is, as you have been taught, a divine be­stowal of dignity and worth and eternal destiny. 
But perhaps you will iind your genera­tion not so hostile to your traditional be­liefs as you fear, for they look for lead­ership from confusion of thought, from their despair of defeat, and their pros­tration by this deadly defeatism. Many American non-Catholics of today will ad­mit that the Catholic Church stands as the only authoritative teacher amid chaos. Many people whom you meet will admit that they long for your certainty of belief in a divine destiny, of your pos­session of the peace "which the world cannot give." For their hunger for cer­tainty you can bring them He spiritual bread of the fortitude of Catholic faith. 
Today you will have to g^nard closely your treasured possession and fight val­iantly to preserve your Christian heri­tage. 
Lives Are Inter-Dependent 

A Commencement address is not the place' to- tell you of the economic disloca­tions that inevitably lie ahead. Nor is it the time to suggest to you the ways in which your duty of leadership must be squarely faced. 
Perhaps no more hopeful sign for the future of America can be discerned than in the ever-increasing recognition of Americans generally that their lives are inter-dependent one on another. The olden days of rugged individualism, for all their possible economic justification are happily a thing of the past From many sources we hear and read of a sim­ilar transformation in the rigid class lines of old England. And fortunate it is that the dream of the brotherhood of man and the fatherhood of God is being given a fuller recognition. You young men, inheritors of all the mistakes of our yesterdays, will not subscribe to any tear­ful tone of pity, for you have youth, courage, ideals and truth at your com­mand. 
.When, and I hope it may be soon, a war-torn world climbs the slow and pain­ful trail of economic readjustment, I hope and pray that you will furnish the leadership which your University stamp symbolizes — not the counterfeit stamp of one who regards himself as favored beyond his fellowman, but the genuine stamp of one whom the Church and the University have honored with the faith that his life will be full of Christian meaning. 
As your life flowers, in joy or in sor­row, in crisis or in peace, you will look back to these days with the fondest of manories, for here you have imbibed a heritage of accomplishment in the face of adversity. 
Straggles of Notre Dame 

Indeed, if physical trials and hard­ships had overcome the Fathers of Notre Dame, the little cabin on your campus would represent the limit of their mis­sionary efforts in this great Mid-West. 
,// the struggle against poverty had broken the spirits of your parents and gn^andparents, there would never have been the r^ources to send you here to obtain the benefits of Catholic culture. 
/ / seemingly overwhelming odds meant surrender, there never would have been the glorious tradition of Notre Dame's athletic prowess, for indeed it is the will to win regardless of the odds that stirred this nation with the symbol of "the fight­ing Irish." 
/ / misfortune crushed Notre Dame, then the great fire of 1879 which wiped out every University building except the chapel and the theatre would have writ­ten "finis" to "Notre Dame." But in the two remaining buildings — the chapel and the stage of life upon which genera­tions should perpetuate Catholic teaching 
— there was a symbolic and prophetic (Continued on Page 26) 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
BY JOSB>H S. PETRIR '32 



ATHLETICS 
Track 
After talking it all over pro and con, the boys around the Athletic Association oSSces have decided that you can't win them all, and that they will give William 
P. Mahoney, affectionately known as "T-Bone," another chance. 
All the 24-year old successor to the late John P. Nicholson as Irish track coach in 1941 was able to accomplish was one of the outstanding records ever com­piled by a freshman, and one of the best coaching performances of 1941. 
Most of Mahoney's material came from the sophomore dass. There was lots of sophomore class on the squad, in other words, and Mahoney knew just what to do with it. Getting down to facts and figures, the Irish won five out of seven dual meets. They lost an indoor dual meet to Indiana's Big Ten champions. They lost one outdoor to Michigan's Big Ten defending champions, who were nosed out by Indiana for the outdoor title. They came back late in the season to win the Indiana state meet, scoring 68^ points to Indiana's 60^. 
The important item in the state meet victory is the fact that Notre Dame scored in every event. That is the way "Nick" would have wanted it. He had little respect for coaches who spedalized in developing runners only, jumpers only, or weight men only. He thought even less of coaches who merely organized each day's practice while a group of highly talented high school stars devel­oped themselves in competition with each other. And he practically despised men­tors who made their reputations by de­veloping an outstanding star here and there, while taking consistent shellack­ings in dual meets. 
John Nicholson had his share of indi­vidual stars, induding Greg Kice, who is rapidly gaining recognition as the great­est of all track men devdoped in this country, but at heart he was a dual meet coach. Bill Mahoney is a coach of all events, too, and he's going to be all right. 
Included in the year's performances were the establishment of four new all-time Notre Dame records. Jim Ddaney, San Francisco sophomore, accounted for two of them, in the shot put, getting 51 feet 1% indies indoor and 51 feet 3% inches outdoor. The mile rday team con­sisting of Gene Fehlig, Didc Tnpta, George Schiewe, and Bay Boy established a record for its event by winning the Drake relays in 3 minutes 15.9 seconds, as reported in an earlier issue. Boy came up from fourth place to win by inches in an estimated 47.5 seconds for his anchor quarter. 
Bill Dfllon, a soph from Harbor City, Calif., set the fourth record, winning the 120-yard high hurdles in the state meet in 14.6 seconds. This broke a mark of 
14.8seconds set by Chet Wynne in 1921, and established some sort of a record for irony. From the time he took over at Notre Dame in 1927, John Nicholson wanted above everything else a hurdler who might represent Notre Dame in na­tional competition, possibly in the Olym­pic games. A hurdler himself, he had won all the American titles in 1912 and had gone to the Olympics in Stockholm, only to fall ignominiously when he struck a hurdle before the royal.box in the finals. This failure irritated him — even though there were extenuating drcum­stances a-plenty — and each year he at­tempted to discover and devdop the man who might represent him with victory in the Olympic finals. During his Notre Dame career, Nicholson saw his athletes break or tie every Notre Dame record in the book — except the 120-yard hij^ hurdles mark. Chet Wynne had covered the distance, as reported, in 14.8 in 1921. That mark stood until shortly more than a year after Nicholson's untimely death. Now it is a part of the record of Bill Mahoney, himself one of Nicholson's great hurdling prospects until a chronic injury to a leg muscle forced the Ari­zona boy, 1938 Irish captain, to switch to the 440-yard dash. 
The record for the year follows: 
Indoor 
Notre Dame, 84: Michigan State, 20. 
Indiana, 56 2y3: Notre Dame, 47 lys. 
Notre Dame, 79; Marquette, 25. 
Central CoIIe^ate conference meet — Notre 
Dame won -with 49 points: Pittsburg, 4S; Micbi-
Ban Normal, 22; Marqoctte, 19%. 
Bntler relays — Michigan 35: Indiana, SS; 
Notre Dame, 25 1/S. 
Outdoor 
Drake relays — Notre Dame won unofficial team 
championship with 26% pointa: McUgan, 21%: 
Texas 21. 
Hichisan, 74%; Notre Dame, 6»%. 
Notre Dame; 90%: Webigas SUte; 40%. 
Notie Dame, 91%: Maraaette, S9%. 
Notr* Dnae. 76: Wismmiin. EC 

Tmfiana State meet — Notre Dame m a tiiSk 68% points; Indiaoa. 60%: Butler. 17%. 
Cmtnl Collesiate conference meet — Indiana won with 42 points; Notre Dame; 28%; Wiseoa­siB. 23'2y3: KamDette; 14 2/3. 
Delaney won the shot put in the Pean lela n which was mn the same day as the Drake ««nne at Des Moines. 
The Irish also partidpated in the Illi­nois and Ckieago Daily News relays, with Keith OlConrk^ soph jumper, estidUish­ing a record of 6 feet 6 ^ inches for the Illinois event. CBourke led all collegiate competition in the Chicago rdays, taking second to Mel Walker of New Toric; whfle the mile relay team won a thrilling vic­tory over Ohio State in 3:21^. 
Space does not permit a detailed sum­mary of each event or each individoal, but well list briefly the outstanding per­formances and prindpal diamiuonships won by various members of the squad: 
Bill Bnenger, senior sprinter, won the 60 against Indiana indoor and the cen­tury against IGchigan State outdoor in 
6.3 and 10.2, respectivdy, consistently placing thnmghoat the season. 
Frank Conforti, soph miler £rom Bronx, N. Y., ran 4:22.4 indoor to tie with Oliver Hunter, and to share the Marquette meet record. He won the mile against Michigan outdoor in 4:19, which isn't too far off the all-time Notee Dame record of 4:15.9. 
Jim- Ddaney, San Francisco sopho­more, collected the all-time Notre Dame indoor and outdoor shot put records pre­viously mentioned, won the Central con^ ference indoor, the Butler and Penn re­lays, and Indiana State titles. His out­door peak of 51 feet 3% inches was sec­ond only to the marks of Al Blosis of Georgetown for the entire country. De­laney set records for the Notre Dame gym, Michigan State fidd hous^ Michi­gan State indoor and outdoor meets. Cen­tral conference indoor meet, and the Michigan outdoor meet in the shot, and for the ICchigan meet in the discus with a toss of 141 feet 8 inches. 
Bill Dillon, previously covered to some extent, ran the 220-yard lows in 24.1 sec­onds for a meet mark against ICehigan, in addition to his Notre Dame record of 
14.6for the 120-yard "iaigba. 
Oliver Hunter III, Erie, Pa., sopho­more^ ran that 4:22A mile to tie with Conforti for the Marquette indoor meet record, which may not seem to be much record-breaking for a lad regarded as one of the finest distance prospects in the country. He won the Central confer­ence indoor title at two miles, however, in 9:35.5, after placing second in the mile; and he took the Drake relays two-mile championship in 9:24.7. The 
N.C.A.A. marks were not in as yet, when this was written. 
Tony Maloney, Bronx, N. Y., sopho­more, had his hands full with Hunter and Conforti on the same team, but he man­aged to take a lot of points for places, winning the two-mile in 9:48.5 against Michigan State, and the mile in 4:27.1 against the same team, indoor and out­door, respectively. 
Bill Nicholson, son of the late Notre Dame coach, a sophomore from South Bend, encountered tough luck all the way, but he managed to collect a Mar­quette meet record of 8.3 seconds for the 65-yard highs and a Michigan State meet record of 7.7 seconds for the 60-yard highs. He also scored in the high jump in other meets, and his determined mein left no doubt of his desire to prove to the world in general that he can, by heck, run the hurdles. 
Capt. Joe Olbrys, senior half-miler, found that records passed him by, but he must be credited with giving his best at all times, turning in a best winning time of 1:58.6 to win against Michigan State outdoor. 
Keith O'Eourke, Warren, Ohio, soph, defeated but once in collegiate competi­tion — and then by Don Canham of Michigan, defending national co-cham­pion — leaped 6 feet 6^;4 inches for an Illinois relays record, and did an esti­mated 6 feet 6 inches against Wisconsin outdoor, although the height was not measured for some reason or other. O'Rourke won, besides the Illinois relays title, the Central's indoor championship, tying for the outdoor crown; the Butler relays championship, and he tied for the Drake title. He set a field record of 6. feet 4% inches against Michigan State. He won the broad jump against Michigan State, and took the javelin throw against the same team with a respectable toss of 184 feet 11% inches. 
Bill Eiordan, sophomore from Sioux City, Iowa, was a great asset to the in­door team as a half-miler, running 1:57.8 against Marquette, and placing in other meets. His quest for a guard post with the football team in spring workouts led to a broken collar bone, which ended his track endeavors for the year. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Kay Eoy, junior from Oak Park, DL, and captain-elect of the 1942 team, is a quarter-miler with a great finishing kick. As reported before, he was clocked in 
47.5 for his anchor leg of the relay at Drake, from a flying start He fell inches short of overtaking Eoy Cochran of In­diana, indoor world record holder, in the state meet, Cochran winning in 48 sec­onds. He has twice won the indoor Cen­trals title, and has twice anchored the \vinning Irish mile team in the Centrals. Mahoney calls him one of the headiest and most courageous runners he has ever seen, and has great confidence in Roy's ability to handle himself in large fields. He holds the Michigan State fieldhouse record of 50.8 and the Michigan State and Michigan outdoor dual meet marks of 48.8 and 49.1, respectively. 
A chronic puUed muscle killed most of 

Bob Saggan's senior year as a sprinter, 
when he seemed headed for real great­
ness. He turned in two 6.3 performances 
in the 60-yard dash indoor, and he left 
school sharing the all-time Notre Dame 
record of 6.2 for the distance with Jack 
Elder, Bill McCormick and Bill Clifford. 
George Schiewe, junior from Chicago, 

was tied with Eoy on the first ballot in 
the captaincy election, with on one else 
getting a vote. The boys couldn't have 
gone wrong on either choice. Schiewe has 
had to run second to Eoy innumerable 
times, but his natural talent and a fight­
ing heart have given Notre Dame many 
points and much reason for pride. 
Schiewe setia Michigan State field mark 
of 49.3 this spring, and he won the low 
hurdles in 24.5 against the Spartans, 
placing many times in both events. As 
third man on the relay team, he turned in . some brilliant performances. 
Frank Sheets, senior from Sugar Grove, Ohio, turned in a few outstand­ing marks, it's true> but his reputation as the hardest-working man on the squad paid dividends when he scored consist­ently in three events outdoor: both sprints and the broad jump. He won the broad jump and 220 against Michigan State and Marquette, placing in the 100 in both meets, and running with the win­ning mUe relay against the Spartans. 
Ezi-a Smith, sophomore from Los An­geles, got as high as 13 feet 2 inches in the pole vault outdoors, for a third place tie at Drake, and he leaped 12 feet 6 inches indoor against Indiana. He was stricken with bronchial pneumonia just after the state meet, but he was out of danger at latest reports. 
Jack WietoflF, sophomore from Mt. Ver­non, N. Y., reached 12 feet 6 inches both indoor and outdoor in the pole vault, tie­ing for the Indiana State title. 
We have all but neglected to mention Gene Fehlig, lead-off man with the mile relay team until after the Michigan out­,door meet, when. he switched to golf, thus becoming the only man within the memory of your correspondent to win two spring sports letters in.the same year. 
Jay Gibson, sophomore sprinter from Mishawaka, Ind., was lost for the out­door season with a bad arch, after win­ning his sweater, with room to spare, in­door. Joe Prokop, Cleveland junior, also got his letter indoor in the low hurdles, adding an occasional point outdoor fol­lowing spring g^diron drills. Dick Tupta, sophomore half-miler from Cleveland, did some nice work with the two-mile relay team, and scored consistently through the year. Bob Vicars, Pontiac, HI., sopho­more, won his letter in the javelin throw, manifesting considerable promise. Wally Ziemba, sophomore tackle, who will be a junior center, looked good in the shot put, and he may become a star if he can duck spring football next year. Cliff Brosey, giant junior tackle from Ozone Park, N. Y., missed the season entirely with a bad kg, and he saw Delaney take over both of his shot put records — in­door and outdoor. Should he return to form next year, and should Ziemba de­velop up to the limit of his potentialities, the Irish will have the best shot-putting group in the nation, not excepting even Georgeto^vn. 
Baseball 

Also on the basis that you can't vnn them all, the boys around the ofBce have decided to string along with Jake Kline, with the admonition that he'd better smarten up a bit by 1942. Or maybe we should say that Jake should not be quite so smart. 
His teams have operated successfully for many years without benefit of a southern training trip, yet invariably they open the season with a string of vic­tories, with Jake thus fooling the opposi­tion which thinks he's probably produced a soft touch. 
Then about the time the office ribbers get Jake pretty well convinced that the "alumni are' up in arms," he comes up with a couple of Commencement week performances such as the 1941 Irish Irish showed against California's State of California champions. 
Notre Dame opened with a 3-all ten-inning tie with Purdue, took Chicago in stride, lost, a 3-0 decision to Iowa then defeated the second place Big Ten team, 4-2 the next day. The Irish knocked off Michigan's Western conference champs. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
6 to 2, behind Stubby NowicM's three-hit pitching and it looked like a successful if confusing year — for the Irish didn't appear to have it in practice. And by it, we mean consistent hitting, and con­sistent pitching. As it developed in sub­sequent games, they didn't even have con­sistent defense. They lost nine out of the next ten games, splitting with Michigan State. 
But when California came to town with a mark of 30 victories in 38 starts, they proceeded to give Lefty Koll his second defeat of the entire season, 5 to 4 in 12 innings, with Sophomore John Metzger on the hill.- Then Nowicki won the next day's game, 8 to 6, and the alumni went home beaming, and for the most part, forgetting that Jake would like to meet up with some students from the home towns of said alumni, who are proficient at the national pastime — and we do not mean methods of getting draft defer­ments. 
Even in a season which say only six victories and a tie against ten defeats, there were the high spots mentioned, as well as a flock of brilliant individual performances, particularly by Capt. Andy Chlebeck, St. Paul, Minn., junior; Bemie Crimmins, Louisville, Ky., catcher who was named 1942 leader; and Bay Pinelli, senior shortstop from San Fran­cisco. 
Chlebeck, in center field, led the team in almost every department of play. He hit in every game except the second of the year, with Iowa, to compile the amaz­ing average of .479. He was 'way off by himself in runs scored, number of hits, total bases, two base hits, home runs, stolen bases, and even in getting hit by pitcher — a feat he acomplished twice. He also fielded his postion perfectly. He appeared in every game. 
Crimmins missed four games and many workouts because of spring football, but he hit .364, took second in two-baggers and in runs scored, ranked among the leaders in all departments, and had only two errors for a .974 fielding mark. 
Pinelli, now the property of Newark, hit a robust .314, played in every game, took second to Chlebeck in most hitting departments, and struck out only once in 70 appearances. He fielded only .865, playing for three years at a position he dislikes, simply because it was best for the team. He will go to third base as a league player, and the campus ^\'ill un­doubtedly come to appreciate him more, when his still anonymous successor shows up. 
Following is the record, along with whatever dope on averages that pass muster in the editorial sanctum of Broth­ers Armstrong and Dooley: 
1941 Bccotd 

Notre Dame 3. Fardae 3 (ten inninss). Notre Dame 17, Chieaso 10. Iowa 3, Notre Dame 0. Notre Dame 4, Iowa 2. Notre Dame 6, Michisan 2. Western Michigan II, Notre Dame 2. Westren Michigan 9, Notre Dame 3. Northwestern 6, Notre Dame 5. Northwestern 5, Notre Dame 1. Notre Dame-Purdue (rain). Notre Dame 14, Micbisan State 4. Hichigan State 10, Notre Dame 2. Navy 5, Notre Dame 4. Michigan 8, Notre Dame 3. Ohio State 22. Notre Dame 9. Ohio State 8, Notre Dame 5 (ten innings). Notre Dame 5, California 4 (12 innings)' . Notre Dame 8. California 6. 
1941 Lettermen 

Callahan, Tom, If, soph.: Campagna, Joe, 3b, soph.; Chlebeck, Andy, cf, it. (Capt.) ; Crimmins, Bemie, c, jr. (Capt-Elect) ; Oimmins. Chuck, rf & ss, sr.: Farrell, Charlie, lb, sr.; Fischer, Bob, p, soph.: Hengel, Don, lb & of, sr.: Kelly, Mike, c, jr.; Metzger, John, p, soph.; Nowicld, Sebas­tian, p, soph.: Pinelli, Ray, ss & 3b, sr.: -Sobek. George, 2b, jr.: Shea. Marty, Manager, sr. 
An interesting statistic of the season is found in the fact that Ohio State's 22 to 9 victory over the Irish represented a new total of runs scored against Notre Dame. The highest previous total was 17. The 13-point margin of victory was the second highest ever registered against Notre Dame. 
Along the same lines: Tom Callahan got four of his ten hits in the final game to bring his average up to an even .200, but his fielding was superb all year. . . . Of the five errors made by Joe Cam­pagna on third base, three came in one game, and he turned in some fine plays during the rest of the season. . . . Four of Ed Hengel's six errors were bunched in one game — that 22-9 thing with Ohio State. . . . Chuck Crimmins, who played shortstop for a while, vrith PineUi.on third, and finished in right field, hit .500 for the last six games to bring his aver­age up to .294. . . . Nowicki came up from .067 after six games to .247 for the year, pinch-hitting effectively in the later stages of the season. . . . Chuck Farrell, senior first sacker, suffered a concussion in a collision at second base that benched him for a week; he no more than got back into action when he was stricken with appendicitis and had to be operated upon, ending his Notre Dame career. . . .George Sobek was out much of the year with a bad knee, but he knocked in six runs in ten games. The knee was operated on recenty in St. Jo­seph hospital, South Bend. 
Tanais 

We are mtaUe to supply results of the national tennis tournament at Merion, Pa., bat we don't need that information to state ibat the-1941 record was the best in Notre Dame history. The Irish missed an undefeated season by only two points, losing a 5-4 decision to Northwestern when Norm Heckler dropped the decid­ing match to J. Shapiro of the Wildcats after, being two points from winning his second strai^t set. 
This is not set down as any criticism of Heckler, for Notre Dame also lost to the Wildcats in football, basketball, golf, and baseball twice. Heckler swung the Chicago match to the Irish, 5-4^ and his play was a big factor in taming the tide against Michigan's Big Ten champions, and against Michigan State. 
Like the baseball and golf teams, the Irish rose to the heights against their stiffest competition, but sluffed off a bit ag;ainst a Northwestern team that was below the usual high Wildcat standard. 
Dan Canale, captain-elect, did some brilliant work in the No. 1 spot, but his play was overshadowed by that of Olen Parks, Mlshawaka, Ind., sophomore who weights some 210 pounds and looks it. Parks was undefeated during the entire dual season, playing in the No. 3 slot. He proved his class in the state tournament when he eliminated Canale, the defend­ing champion, in straight sets, and then defeated Capt. Jack Joyce, No. 2 man, in the finals, also without losing a set. Parks and Canale qualified in doubles for the national- tournament, Canale making the grade also in singles. Need­less to say, the Irish won the Indiana team title without undue effort. 
Scores follow: 
Notre Dame, 8: Detroit, 1. 
Notre Dame, 8; Western State (Michigan), 1. 
Notre Dame, S: Indiana, 1. 
Notre Dame, 6; Kentucky, 3. 
Notre Dame, 5: Chicago, 4. 
Notre Dame. 6; Michigan, 3. 
Northwestern, 5: Notre Dame, 4. 
Won 7, lost 1. 
1941 Lettermen 

Capt. Jack Joyce. No. 2, sr.: Norman Heckler, No. 5, sr.: John Walsh, No. 6, sr.: Dan Canale, No. 1, Captain-Elect, jr.: Harry Erd, No. 7, jr.; Olen Parks, No. 3, soph.: George Biittner, No. 4, soph.; Tom Morrison, minor sports manager, sr. 
Golf 

So high a standard has the golf team set for itself that the 1941 season, in which the Irish won six out of eight matches, must be regarded as just av­erage. 
But the cold record does not tell the complete story. Notre Dame, 'tis true, dropped matches to Wisconsin and Northwestern, when the scoring was not so good. But the Irish came from behind to nose out Illinois and Michigan, which at this writing, were favored to win the Big Ten championship. The victory over Michigan, as recounted in the latest is­sue of the "Alumnus," rates in our book as the greatest ever produced by a Notre Dame team. The Irish captured ten of the 12 possible points to win, 14 to 13. 
For the first time in Notre Dame an­nals, however, both the individual and team championship in the state tourna­ment got away. Purdue won with 619 points to Notre Dame's 623. -^Jid Gene Fehlig, St. Louis, Mo., sophomore, fin­ished three strokes behind the 149 reg­istered by Wade Knipp of Purdue. 
If they run true to form, the Irish will thrive on the fast competition of the N.C.AJl. tournament at Columbus late this month and will do themselves some good. 
Scores for the year follow: 
Notie Dame, 19; Purdue, 8. 
Notre Dame, 15: Dlinois, 12. 
Wisconsin, 15; Notre Dame, 12. 
Notre Dame, 14; Hichiean, 13. 
Notre Dame, 16%; MichiBan State. 10%. 
Notre Dame, 18%; Minnesota, 8%. 
Nortliweatem, 16; Notre Dame, 11. 
Notre Dame, 23% ; Detroit, %. 
Indiana State meet — Purdue, 619; N.D„ 623. 
1941 Lettennen 
Capt. Sammy Neild, No. 1, sr.; George Sehrieber, No. 6, «r.; Milo Wolf, No. 6, sr.; Billy WiI«on, No. 4„ Capt-EIect, jr.; John Conry, No. 3, jr.; Gene FchliB, No. 2, soph.; Bill Fisher, No. 3, soph.; John Hanigan, No. 5, soph. 
WHILE ALUMNI EKE AND COPE 
(Continued from Face 15) 
volitum nisi praecognitum. Indeed, the most influential ideas came from pure thought or theory rather than from the work of those inventors and others who had frankly utilitarian aims. Behind Marconi and Edison were Faraday and Maxwell. Likewise in the domain of the social sciences, consider Rousseau, Gobi­neau, Marx and Nietzsche and decide whether the ivory tower, the library, the study, the garret and the genizah have anytiiing to do with marching armies and hanging maps and institutions. In the beginning was the word; theory pre­cedes practice and execution presupposes conception. Or as Leonardo put it: "Sci­ence is the captain, practice the soldiers." That is why the late Justice Holmes was able, in all truth, to say: "To an imag-
JOBS FOR ENGINEERS 
The Placement Bnreau of the 
Alumni Association is asked fre­
quently to suggest engineers for 
job openings in various parts of 
the country and especially in the 
Middle West. PracUcally all lands 
of engineers are wanted. 
Will those engineers who would 
like to consider a change of johs 
— we take it for granted there are no unemployed engineers — please notify the Placement Bu­reau at once? Complete details of ezperienix, as well as minimum salary acceptable and location lim­itations, should, of course, 1M given. The principal information ought to be briefed into outline form, and typewritten. 
ination of any scope, the most far-reach­ing form of power is not money, it is the command of ideas. . . . Read the works of the great German jurists, and see how much more the world is governed today by Kant than by Bonaparte. . . . Like Descartes or Kant, Montesquieu commanded the future from his study more than Napoleon from his throne." 
The people are emotional and enthusi­astic and are concerned with the field of the concrete and the particular. But emo­tions and all other affective and conative reactions presuppose knowledge. . The heart does have its reasons font it got many of the from the head. Moreover the sphere of concrete facts and particu­lar events consists merely of cases and instances which exemplify or realize the intelligible world of the abstract and uni­versal in which the intellectual is at home. The slow and unemotional intellec­tual considers all possible factors; we must not impatiently demand from him immediate courses of action, ad hoe rem­edies and tactics. But he does offer us principles and grand strategy or policy. No, there is nothing wrong with ideas or theories, as such. It is only erroneous thought, fallacious reasoning and sophis­tical theories that we need fear. Error is the foe, not intellectuals, and it is not futile to look to them for guidance in time of crisis. Where else, in the nat­ural order of things and events, will we find truth and wisdom? We do not go to a lawyer for an appendectomy or to a surgeon for assistance in a lawsuit. 
Roman Catholics especially should be­ware of those who would undermine con­fidence in reason. They should remember that fideism, traditionalism and revela­

tionism were condemned. Thus, for in­stance, they must not forget that the Vatican Council declared that the ex­. istence of God could be known with certi­tude by the natural light of human rea­son. Is it not false and dangerous then to suggest or imply that less difficult problems are not amenable to solution by the same intellect or understanding? 
As Chesterton repeatedly pointed out against those enemies who called the Church "obscurantist," the real truth of the matter historically is that the Church is the defender of reason against those (e.g. Montaigne) who are sceptical toward that faculty's powers. But the same Church which champions reason is opposed to i^tionalism because that theory makes extravagant claims on be­half of reason by making it omniscient and having it usurp the role of Divine Revelation. Following Aquinas we hold the reason to be superior to the sense against positivism, empiricism and sens-ism) and we prefer intellect to will or emotions (i.e., the head is better than the' heart) in the quest for natural truth. But in the supernatural sphere of course, Revelation takes precedence. 
There are those who jeer and sneer at 

Waldo Frank, Archibald MacLeish and Lewis Mumford for having recently dis­covered the reality and indispensability of standards, absolutes and constants. I think they should be welcomed to the fold of those who believe in eternal van-­ties and perennial principles. Praise . rather than scorn is due to them for see­ing that on the negative basis of their former premises, nothing could be called right or wrong, true or false. (See Chart for Rough Waters and Faith 
for Living.) 
COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS 
(Continued from Page 22) 

meaning for the Fathers of Notre Dame. 
/ / the Fathers of the noble Congrega­

tion of Holy Cross had fastened their 
gaze upon earth alone and placed their 
prize upon the praise of men, there never 
would have been the grotto by the lake 
where stalwart generations of Notre 
Dame men have knelt reverently in deep 
devotion and prayer to God. 
Those triumphs over adversities spell for yon the lesson of afterlife. And my wish this day for you, my fellow alumni, is that the lives of all of you will be marked by a nobility of character which will bring honor to your families and glory to your University. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
97th COMMENCEMENT 
(Continued from Page 4) 

nounce definitely that the Ten-Year team won. The Five-Year team admitted the defeat in the bittei-ness of the discovery that the umpire presiding over the last half of the game really has the call. Ex­perience caught the innocent '36 men napping. Their xmmpire launched the game, and during his tenure all was in the tradition of accent on youth. But when the wily '31 team introduced its arbiter in the crucial closing moments of a tight battle, the odds changed rap­idly. 
Class Day 

The 621 capped and gowned men of '41 made their first official appearance as they filed into Sacred Heart Church where Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C, '04, presided at the ceremonies of the Last Visit. 
Following immediately after was the procession to Washington Hall for the Class Day exercises. There Cicero beamed down at his three favored followers, — Pogliano, the poet, Del Zoppo, the ora­tor, and Gerra, the valedictorian. Prizes and awards for the scholastic year were distributed to the '41 winners. 
'26 Luncheon 

Paul Revered by Jim Eonan, and con­tracted by resident Classman Bill Dooley, the 15-Year Class of '26 met in the lay faculty dining room, some 60 in number, for their reunion luncheon. Justice w^as done to the banquet menu, if not to mem­bers of the Class like Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, obstetrician of the Oranges, who, 
. in the decade and a half seemed to shape himelf from his environment; or Messrs. Conlin and Dwyer, mistaken from their snowy caps for jubilarians of an earlier era. 
"The Gondoliers" 

' At 4 pjn., for the graduates and their guests, and again at 8:40 p. m., for alumni and other visitors, the University Theatre offered the Savoyards in Gilbert and Sullivan's "Gondoliers." The produc­tion was directed by Cecil Birder, '14, head of the Department of Speech, a dis­tin£:uished musician and director himself, and an alumnus of Notre Dame drama­tics when the field was rich and varied. 
The Alumni Banquet, adjourned early to permit attendance of alumni, supplied a good part of the evening audience for a new departure in recent alumni ac­tivity. It is glowing tribute to the cast and the production — already over­whelmed with tribute — that many alumni who came through courtesy re­mained through admiration of an attrac­tive show, beautifully produced, acted, sung and accompanied. The ALUMNUS is mindful of the fine work of Notre Dame dramatics in other years, but in this show something of the combination of the popular, the novel, and the traditional were combined with sheer good work to give to alumni, as .well as to visitors, something that seemed an integral part of the aliunni week-end. Perhaps the ever-loved Gilbert and Sullivan' provide much of the answer. The ALUMNUS ventures the opinion, however, that some­where in the show, the personality of Sid Birder, who used to divide his time be­tween winning his monogram in track and being Notre Dame's "All-American leading lady," was enough in evidence to bring to the ears of aliunni listeners something of the fun, as well as the art and the culture, that can come from the boards of Washington Hall. 
The Banquet 

Short, as mentioned above, the Alumni Banquet lost nothing of the impressive­ness it has achieved in recent years. 
With 650 alumni present in the always beautiful Dining Halls — adorned this year with many familiar faces from the old Hall of the Bishops — the gathering was highlighted by an address by the President of the University which the ALUMNUS is happy to present in full in this issue. A short greeting was de­manded of the new Director of Athletics and football coach, Frank Leahy, '31. 
Of surprise enjoyment was the pres­ence of the Rt. Rev. Monsignori Ftdton Sheen and Michael J. Ready. Utilizing the Banquet as the unofficial induction of these distinguished Catholic leaders. into the alumni of Notre Dame, the Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., '06, toastmas­ter, called on Msgr. Sheen, who re­sponded with one of those impromptu gems lost to the absent trade through lack of stenographic setting. But if you have been exposed to a present brother, you have undoubtedly had the magnifi­cent tribute to Notre Dame and Notre Dame men quoted to you in enthusiastic, if approximate, verabtim. 
Among those at the head table at this year's banquet, in addition to the men listed above, were: Most Rev. John F. Noll D.D., L.L.D.; Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15 who presided at the dinner; Harry F. Kelly, '17, and James E. Deery, '10, pres­idential nominees for 1941; John L. Her­man, '91, only member present of the Golden Jubilee Class; Rev. John J. Cava­naugh, C.S.C, vice-president of the Uni­versity; Byron V. Kanaley, '04, and Frank E. Hering, '98, of the Board of Lay Trustees; Rev. William A. Car^, C.S.C., 11; Bev. John A. HacNamara, "97; Timothy P. Galvin, 16, Supreme Blaster of the Fourth D^ree, K. of C, and Don Miller, '25, the latter, fin- the first time in the records at least, being the only one of the five Idlers at Com­mencement. 
Election of officers was reported to the Banquet, as listed elsewhere^ as is the report of the year, list of deceased alumni, etc 
Kg Sunday 

It has been increasingly the custom for alumni to feel that thdr part of Com­mencement closed with the Saturday cur­few. The distinguished and popular na­ture of both the Baccalaureate Mass and the Commencement speakers this year turned back this trend. Alumni badges were spotted throughout the thousands of guests who listened to the brilliant address of Monsignor Sheen oh Sunday morning,, and the Hon. Joseph P. Ke^ nedy on Sunday afternoon. A record-breaking attendance of families and friends of the Class of 1941, together with this alumni attendance, presented to the speakers the largest Commence­ment crowds ever assembled in the Gym­nasium. 
The ALUMNUS is not only happy to present, but in doing so answer many requests for, the addresses of Monsignor Sheen and Mr. Kennedy, complete in this issue. 
On Sunday, after flag raising, the ad­ministration and the deans held a recep­tion in the Rockne Memorial for the par­ents of the Class of '41. This innovation met with such success that another fea­ture has been undoubtedly introduced into the crowded Commencement week­end. 
Condnsion 

The conclusion, writing of this 97th Commencement of the University, is the conclusion of many years preceding it — there is neither space nor ability to pre­sent to the alumni not present the va­riety, the impressiveness, the enjoyment, of the week-end. The register of those attending will bring to most of you many names of friends you would have liked to see. The program would have brou^t to all of yon memories of your own Notre Dame, and pleasing evidence of the constant development of the University in all its phases. 
No books are closed. It is just another chapter. You can still enjoy the story.­The above is just the synopsis to date. Order next year's attendance from your nearest dealer. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
« a

ALUMNI CLUBS 
CANTON, OHIO Glen T. Dnbs, '35, 919 12th St., N. W.; Ptcsidesit; Ouiies A. Eolp, Jr., *38, 4207 Norta Canton Road. Secretair­
llie club observed Universal Notre Dame Night in its traditional manner: we held a stag banquet at Bender's Bestaurant, which was very well at­tended. The banquet committee, which consisted of Hares Camp, Glen Dobs, James Sexton, Rob­ert Streb and myself, had the evening well ar­ranged. We all listened to our local radio station which carried a program dedicated to Notre Dame Night, and also to the national broadcast. 
Ihe main speaker of our banquet was Frank Zink who spoke of Rockne's and Notre Dame's influence on men of the country. Robert Streb told of his personal experiences with Rock and Nick Roty told of bis experiences with Frank Leahy. 
An election of officers was held, a constitution adopted and dues levied. Glen Dnbs was elected president, Robert Streb, vice-president, and I was re-elected secretary-treasurer. An active season was planned for the ensuing year. 
—Charles A. Kolp, Jr. 

CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) William J. Casazza, '35, 11 Rosemont Ave., Albany, President; James J. Drislane, ex. '38, 756 Madison Ave., Albany, Secretary. 
Universal Notre Dame Night marked the first time in the history of the Club that we brought a guest speaker from the campus for the occasion. We were extremely fortunate to have Father Ensene Bnike, C.S.C., who told us about Notre Dame at the present in his own witty style. 
Usyor Hoogekarap of Albany came to the ban­quet to welcome Father Bnrke, as well as Walter Brown, secretary to the governor of New York, to express the regrets of the governor • that he could not attend. 
Father Charles of Vincentian attended and was gracious in bis praise of Notre Dame. Father Do­lierty* CS.C, from Valatie, was also among the notables in attendance. 
About IQO people attended the dinner and they were all Notre Dame supporters. They could have listened to Father Bnrke for hours, they so en­joyed bis talk. Tlie dinner was held at Wolfert's Roost Country Club, i^st outade Albany. 
The success of the dinner was largely due to Hike T^inf and Tom DoUard who had made plans as early as last summer. Others on the com­mittee were Eddie Eckert, Bill Casazza, Jack Ca-MUEza* Jim Driilane, Paul Deveraox, John Camp­bdl, Lany Weiss, Larry O'Neil and Ray Schledc At the conclusion of the dinner, a business meet­ing was held and the follovdng officers elected for the coming year: William Casazza, president; Ed­win ^enefakc^ vice-president; and James Dris­lane, secretary-treasurer. The Board of Governors -mil consist of: Joseph O'Kane, Paul Deveranx, Baymnid ScUedc, Harold Rhodes and Hike 
As was pointed out at the banquet, among the three past year's officers of the Club, two were married and two had sons. One obvious conclusion —one officer had two events during the year and that was Hike Ledinr. He now has a Michael, Jr. Bidurd WaUi is also the proud father of a son. E4 ^aefake now has three sons; the latest to arrived the day before Universal Notre Dame Nirfit. —Ed Kenefake 
Ray Eichenlaub 

The 1941-1942 4/umni Board 

Most Kev, John F. O'Hara. C.S.C, '11, D.D., New York City.  Honorary President  
Harry F. Kelly, '17, Detroit and Lansing, Mich  President  
Frederick T. Mahaffey, '17, Indianapolis, Ind  .  First Vice-President  
Alfonso A. Scott, '22, Los Angeles, Calif.  Second Vice-President  
James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Ind....  Secretary-Treasurer  
William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind.  Assistant Secretary  
Edward F, O'Toole, '25, Chicago, HI  Director to 1H2  
John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich  1. :  Director to 1H3  
William J. Mooney, Jr., '15, Indianapolis, Ind.  Director to IHJ^  
Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, '10, Mentor, Ohio.  Director to 1H5  

Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15, Columbus, Ohio^ 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Lonis C Hori^y, '33, 2357 Livingstmi Arc. Colnmbos, President; Dan F. Cansmi, "SI, 8 E. Broad St , Colnmbos, Secretary. 

The contribution of Ray Eidienlaab to Notre Dame and Notre Dame men was given due honor on May 28 when the Central Ohio Club sponsored a dinner for him, attended by 100, in the Univer­sity Club, Columbus. His year as president of the Alumni Association was to end on the following Saturday. 
Present to pay tribute to Eich in the name of the University was Rev. John J. Cavanasch* CS.C., vice-president. Bill Dooley, assistant secre­tary, represented the Alumni Association, and both the campus speakers heartily praised ESch as an ideal and self-sacrificing alumnus and Catholic gentleman. 
Other speakers, all joining new choruses to the royally deserved song of praise, were Rev. H. E. 
Ex-Officio Director to IH^ 

Mattingly, club chaplain; Rev. R. Dailey, O.P.; Bisgr. Robert F. Coburn, Eich's pastor; Don Ham-, ilton, Harry Nester, who was the toastmaster. and Bad Harphy, president of the club, who presided and who, in the name of those present, gave Eieh 
. a handsome wrist watch suitably engraved. Tele­grams of congratulation were read from notable persons all over the country. 
The guest of honor outlined to the fascinated group the highlights of his experiences as a Notre Dame student and football player and as a leading football ofHcial. 
DENVER 
Bart W. O'Hara, '32, 1325 Hudson St , Pres­ident; Eugene S. Biisfa, '34, 1530 Oneida St , Secretary. 

Denver Notre Dame Club's Scholarship Commit­tee, headed by Charlie Haskell, goes into high gear to complete final arrangements for this year's scholarship comjietition among Colorado high school graduates. 
JadE Sheehan and Loaie Hongh did the honors in planning the annual spring dance, held Friday, June 6. 
The Rockne Trophy Award, recently announced by the club to be given to the Catholic High School football champion next fall, is big talk in sjKirt circles here. Al Franta steps out to direct this ac­tivity. 
Hartley 0*£^ira, seven-pound newcomer, takes over the active management at President Bart CHara'a. Bob Windheim moves from Abbey School at Canon City to become head football coach at the 
J. K. Hullen Home for Boys near Denver. Ed Bbnsield and AI Doads are setting the pace for the 1941 Varsity Flyer football trip. 
TOM Byan, *32. from Cleveland is in the U. S. Air Corps at Lowry field here; he's southbound for Panama come next July. Bob Lee (home ad­dress: South Bend) comes to Denver to practice law. Ed Owens headed back to the campus for GoDunencement this year. Jim Dwycr, '36er from Troy, N. Y., is with the local FBI office. Ray SaUtli globe trots from coast to coast for the Gates Rubber Co. John F. Connors, valedictorian at Be ^ College this year, plans to continue his studies at Notre Dame next {MM.—Gene BUdu 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
CLEVELAND CLUB SCHOLARSHIP 
Chc Ckvclan^ eriioi Coiiip^mv 
'l'^'"»''!l^ 
31} n (pyierv 

In fartherance of Its icholarahip plan, the Notre Dame CInb of Cleveland has rcccnttr seat ts tha Universitr a check for $1,000, the proceeds from which are to be used for the beneCt of a deserrinc Notre Dame student to be selected by the dob from the Cleveland area. Exact details of the plan leaiaiM to be worked out between officers of the dab and offldals of the tiniverstiy. 
The Catholic Forum of Harrisburg 
By John J. McNeill, '33 
(Ed's'note: Outstanding has been the success of the Catholic Forum of the Diocese of Harris­burg, initiated and guided to a large extent by Notre Dame men and the local Notre Dame Club. In view of the special merit of the project, the "Alumnus" is unusually gratified to present this summary, for the edification and guidance of other Notre Dame individuals and groups.) 
In June of 1938 the Notre Dame Club of Harris­burg originated and successfully conducted the first Catholic College Alumni Dinner for all grad­uates of Catholic Colleges in Central Pennsylva­nia, held at the Hotel Hershey, Hershey, Pa., and attended by approximately 200 men. This dinner -was so successful that the following year this same function 'vvas again conducted and at this meeting the Most Reverend Bishop of Harris­hurff, George L. Leech, D.D.. appealed to the men for a speakers* forum to be held in Harrisburg. The Notre Dame club, calling into its group other representative Catholic Alumni clubs, such as Villanova, Mount St. Mary's, Georgetown, and oth­ers, met shortly thereafter and selected an Execu­tive Cbmmittee to institute this work. 
Attending the first meeting of the Executive Committee were the following representatives of the Notre Dame Club of Harrisburg. Joseph B. Farrell, '15, Walter J. Latz, ex '33. and John J. HtNein, *33. Joe Farrell was elected vice-chairman of the committee and John McNeill the secretary. 
The Forum was instituted on a "guarantor" basis to secure the initial funds for the first sea­son. That is, 20 Catholic citizens of Harrisburg pledged $20 each, ot a total of $400, to guarantee 
the expense of the first lecture. Tickets were sold 
HARRISBURG. PA. 
John J. McNeill, "SJ, 2220 Chestnut St.. President: Samuel R. Reed. >3S, 1316 N. Second St., Secretary. 

Since the Draft Law is really taking effect, it is wise to mention that near Harrisburg there are three major Army bases, namely Indiantown Gap, New Cumberland, and the II. S. Army Air Depot, Middletown, all in Pennsylvania. All men of Notre Dame that happen to be transferred to any of these bases should contact a member of the Notre Dame Club of Harrisburg. We'll try to make your tour of duty in this section as pleasant as possible.—John J. McNeiU on a season basis by leaders selected from the 14 parishes of this area at the price of $2.50, and S1.50, respectively, for the series of five lectures, and prior to the first lecture the Executive Com­mittee reported that the season tickets had netted a total of over $2,000, therefore releasing the "guarantors" from their pledges. 
The lecture season was initiated by the Rt. Rev. Mssr. Fulton J. Sheen, and followed by other notables such as Frank Sheed of London, Bishop Francis Kelley of Tulsa and Oklahoma City, Father Hubbard. At the close of this popularly ac­cepted series of speeches, the Executive Commit­tee was pleased to report to its patrons that the Forum netted a net profit of approximately $1,000 which was held in trust to safely inaugurate the following season of 1940-41. After the second sac­cessful sale of season tickets, the profit of'$1,000 was turned over to our Most Reverend Bishop for the seminary fund to assist in the education of some worthy young man to the priesthood. Since the existence of the Catholic Forum is non-profit, therefore, tax-free, it was advisable to donate all proceeds to a charity, and this donation seemed most appropos since the element of education was the moving force that instituted this work. 
One of the most widely accepted speakers of the second series of lectures was Clarence (Pat) Manion, of our Law School. His talk, about PatTs favorite and well-versed subject; the Constitatlon, was generally commented upon by tbe audience and the public at large. There were many requests for copies of the printed mailer of the lecture from non-Catholic people of Harrisburg. 
KANSAS CITY, (Miuonri-Kuaaa) 
Jahn J. O'Cmnar. •». 41SS Mticte H . Kansas City, Me,. FrciidtBt: Naiaam If, Bowes. 13, S52S BwUdO l>i«i.¥mM GMr. Mc. Sccntaiy. 

Recent changes in the roster of the local, dob are to be noted from this brief list of personals: Enunett Conkling, *35,: now a dvilian inspector at the Quartermaster depot on West Pershing Road, Chicago. Pan] Donigan, '36: now tntvellins out of Syracuse, N. Y., for a wholesale grocer. Don Elser, '37: recently returned to Gary, Ind.. high school coaching. John Fry, '35: for some months, with Santa Fe R. R. at Newton, Kani. Harold Haynes, '23: currently mingling with the politicos at Jefferson City, Ho. Jade Baycs. '41: faces the football season as coach at Bodhunt College. JIaa htmir. '34, leeently remuved to Omaha with Wssaori Portland Caaent Co. Chiriir Htjer. '29: last heard from in Foit Worth, Hex. 
J M Ollnrd, '28: also in Texas on Uim m ihi commissary work. Ctahaa Owca*. '31: bcins gradaated this Jane &om IT. of Fennayivaiua medle school. Hal Q"»-l-», '36: last heard &om in Ptovidenee. R. I. Ed Rtardsa. '37: workinK in Chi­cago for an insarance firm. Gene* SHM . *29: lately moved to New Orleans with coffee bosiness. Fraok Tayac, '40: with Remington Arms ia Cbn­neetieat. Jaa Waler, '35: working for aviation plant in Santa Honiea. Calif.TMS Tair. '32: re­cently transferred to Cbieago with aeeorities firm. Jack Ztiioi^ '38: with Union Carbide and CmAan, in Sooth Africa.—Nana If. Bawes 
PEORIA 
Bal»h B, Jakastn. ex. -St. 4N N. UaheiaMy 

SU Pitaidtat: Hany H. WeaUsy. •». 7N 
Sadlk St , Sccntarr. 

Deaa J. B. MeCartliy was the prindpal speaker at the dob's annual Universal Notre Dane Ni^ t dinner on April 21 in the Jefferson Hotel. He was, says Jaha Slasa. enthusiastically received by a large group. President Babh Jehastaa presided at the dinner, and John was the chairman and toast­master. SpaUias Skvia spoke informally about Notre Dame experiences and Father Baaiha Mat-sett asked the blessing. 
BaMph Kdly cbairmaned tbe annual dob Com­mnhion and breakfast oa Mother's Day, May 11. Mass was at St. Mark's, where Vagr- J. J. Bo ^ recently retired, was pastor for so many years. Breakfast was in the Jefferson Hotel. Jaha Na ^ P'okrcet's daoiAter displayed onusual talent when she drew her own name as the winner of a large bonqoet which decorated the breakfast table, and on the op and op, says Mr. Skaa. 
PHILADELPHIA 
Adtiaa J. WmOcamam. ts, 5356 Chnr St, 
PrcaUoit: Clifarl E, PndcU. •32, «« • 
Chtstat Ave, Secretary. 

The new officers under the direction of Prezy Jea Wadnnua called a meeting of the dan at the Warwiek. A short dehy was broo^it aboot by the inability of AI (Brbg them back alive) D'Aasra to trap a moos* Oat had gotten looae^ ahhon^ he £d ruin a few ehairs. 
Plans for a dinner dance, for the benefit of the bids returning &om adiool. to be held '"•'•fiimn in Jane, were djsenned. lU a affair win protMUy serve a dual role—a hail and farewell—as soma of the men &am sdiool are going into tha army shortly thereafter. 
Haiali Doke, Faal Denis, Bryaa Hayei. Pota Hedare, Fiaak Skapira. BOI CastdBai, Joa lia­ksaty and Chaiky HcKfamcy were amons Oa old reliables present. Those who sent regrets Iweaas* ot other businesz indoded: Daa Toaoc (who TU»' ly fiuls to attend) Was FteiiaglMb BBI Naha, and Ckariie Doacherty, who recently weat to work for the Department of Justica in Wadt­ington. 
Bsh Han. former backfieU coach at Talc. biDo^t soma films of the past fiinlbill aaasi that were by far the best that it has Iwoi oar privilege to witness. Emmett MorteD. Baata v n star, suggested sending them to Hraak I<aky for his eofoing campaign. Bmmett had Jack i»«iM*. brothCT of Hal BaDett. bandleader, as his gOMt, Jack is a idtdwr with the CUeaao WUte Sax. 
Wa had a sad dutr to perform oa flw ~—««~i of Hcaty Baker's bariaL the dob paid him trib­ote and El BaHsr. Jaa Wadtsnaaa' and Vkai* 
•McMaaaa aerved as pall beama. JUaaj had a job whidi kept him oa the road a great deal of tha tima so that he eooldn't attend as many iimlliiis as he widud to attend, hot his nnassiiriin pna­enea and gentlenanly laeia ande m tfad Oat ha was a NotiB Dame nan. Well miss hiss. 
Consrats are in order for: Champ Ed Bailey, but St. Mary's gets the nod this time with Cath­erine after ???? N. D. prospects. 
BiH Cooney saw shades of Everett Callow, the Warners publicity man. and is callins his latest addition "Billy the Ed." Connie Byrne joined the benedicts recently. 
Walt Philipp was appointed to the rank of lieu­
tenant, junior erade. in the Naval'Bcsei%'e and 
your scribbler learns that he's going to be a pay­
master in the supply department at the local 
Navy Yard. Hey I anybody got a blue suit I can 
borrow for one day a month? 
—Cliff Prodehl 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
R. Floyd Searer, '28, First Bank & Trust Co^ Smith Bend. President; Clarence Hard­ing, '25, South Bend Tribune, South Bend, SecMtaiy. 
Ttc Notre Dame Club of St, Joseph Valley an­
nounces a series of four scholarships to the Uni­
versity to be awarded by the club, in cooperation 
with the University, to deserving and qualified 
high sdiool graduates in St. Joseph county. 
The first year scholarship will be given this 
year with applicants being judged by the follow­
ing committee: J. ISmer Peak, superior court 
judge; Frederick Smith, president of the First 
National Bank. Hishawaka; O. M. Swihart, 
county superintendent of schools; and Frank W. 
Lloyd, Notre Dame comptroller. 
The scholarship shall be held for one year at a 
time, for a maximum of four years, T7ith the 
holder reapplying for the award each year after 
first giving Eatisfactory evidence of his accom­
plishments at the University. The scholarship 
holder must be a young man of hi ^ moral worth 
and exceptional intellectual ability who gives de­
cided evidence of his capacity to profit from a 
univerdty education. 
TTie holder ahall be a young man who could 
not. without finptipifil assistance, attend the Uni­
versity and he shall be a day student. A minimum 
of $150 will he required for the initial year. In 
the following years the scholarship will cover all 
expenses exclusive of books and certain labora­
tory fees. 
ITie club sdiolaxship committee is composed 
of B. Floyd Setrer, club president; William R-
Dooley* Herbert Jones, James R. Meehan. Frank 
Miles and Cluirles Sweeney. 
TTie club's annual golf day was held May 22, 
at the South Bend Country Club, with 115 golfers 
competing for 70 prizes. Players were divided 
into three divisions, alumni, faculty and guests. 
Eaffene O'Brien led the alumni ^vision with a 
gross 77. while Don Ransberger, captured the 

guest prize, also -mth a 77- Rev. George Holderith. 
CS.C., was low shooter among the faculty play­
ers with an 81. 
At the conclusion of play, prizes were distrib­uted at a dinner held in the club house. Amoiig tiie guests were Frank Thomas, head football coach at the University of Alabama: his back­field coach. Red Dr«w; and Elmer Layden. (whom we'll never get used to calling a guest) commis­sioner of professional football. 
U«nbers of the committee in charge of the af­fair were Frank Leahy, Herb Jones and Bob Ca-Un. Herb and Bob did a splendid job as combina­tion toastmasters-announcers at the dinner. 
. —Clarence W. Harding 

TRIPLE CITIES (New York) H^trold B. Desnoyers. *34, 18 Grant St., Binghamton, President; Ted J. Griffin, '29. 29 Sdiiiler St , Binfhamton, Secretary. 
The elab held a very successful dinner in cele­bration of Universal Notre Dame Night, in the Arlington Hotel, Binghamton. It was attended by 40, including Notre Dame alumni and invited guests. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
John Law, captain of the '29 football team, and now recreational director at Walkill State Prison, was the principal si>eaker. Ted GrifHa, captain of the tennis team in '29. was diairman of the Joi­ner program. 

Ofi^cers for the year of 1941^2 axe: Harald B. Desnoyers, president; Stewart Osboro. vice^ren­dent. T. J. Griffin, secretary and Robert IE. Ibr ­phy, treasurer. 
Among the alumni were William Hogan, Regis McNamara, John Donnelly, James Hogan, nBi»H Desnoyers, Wililam Ycager, Stewart Odbam, J«e Kane, Robert HcCabc, Dan HcAvoy, Rsfcert M«r­phy and Frank Sullivan, all of Binghamton; Francis O'Brien and James 0*Dea of Elmira, Dr. Louis Gabriel, Harold McHoEh and Jaaws Odfen of Sayre, F^. Kermit Giess of Athens. N. T. 
—^Harold B. Desnssrets 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Hugh C. Boyle, '24, Law & Finance Bldg., Pittshnrch, President; John F. ParBdc, Jr., '34, 118 Bessemer Ave., East PlttAnrcIi, Secretary. 

We celebrated Universal Notre Dame Ni^ t in the Tuscan Room of the Keystone Hotel, Pitts­burgh. Every one enjoyed the broadcasts. 'Bte business part of the meeting included the reading of the by-laws by President Schill and the reading of reports by various committee heads and an election of officers. Hagfa' C Boyle, '24, is our new president, succeeding George Sdilll, '27. Jalm 
P. Honteverde, '38, succeeds Edward J. O^Brien, '34. as vice-pre^dent: Robert Kvatsak, *39, suc­ceeds Rev. Vincent Brennan, '32, as secretary. 
Local radio stations were generous with their time. Vince Burke spoke over KDKA at 3:30 for 15 minutes. Hugh Boyle spoke over KQV and WCAE at 7:30 that evening for 10 minutes. At 
10:30 KQV was host to a question-answer group consisting of John Ryan, Taric Heinerf; Hagh Gallagher, George SdiiU, and JcAn Montever^ 
We learned that Carl Link. '35. is an adjuster for the Aetna Casualty Company.... that Dave Walsh, '34. (originally of Springfield, IlL, bat residing for the past' couple of years in Pitts­burgh) and Mrs. Walsh were moving the next day to Clarion, Pa., where I>ave will be more centrally located for his work as examiner for the national banks that Eddie O'Brien is assod­ated with the local branch of the du Pouts. 
Probably the one to travel the farthest to our affair was Bill Rodcenstein, now a practidng at­torney, who came down from Butler. Leo Tegel and T. C. Kdly were engaged in fhe longest con­versation of the evening, going better than two hours. Postmaster Joe Clark, dropped in for a while.... Seems he's busy these days lining up members for the Dapper Dan Club. 
Some of the best news of the evening came from Vince Burke, who, in his report, told us that the club is now finandally able to send a student to Notre Dame on a part-time scholarship. A permanent scholarship is in the not too distant future. Hie scholarship fund was established last year. Francis Bowman Shipley, Uniontown, a graduate of St. Vincent's Prep, has been chosen as the first recipient of the scholarship, and was the guest of the club at the luncheon on Hay 29. 
Father Brennan . seldom absent from any of the club affairs.... came in about 10 o'clock aft-' er a hurry-up trip to and from ^^rrisburg over the new turnpike.... John Gatowski used a cane to get around because of an injury to his knee in a St. Patrick's Day accident.... We were also glad to see BiH Steitz, Jim and Bill Sixs»ith, Buck HcGovem, Bill Briley. Hugo lacovctti, R. Hartman, Bob McDonald. Bbl» Qiambeiiain, Mmgk Murphy, Bob GaUagfter, Jim HcArdle.,.. We're still having the Thursday luncheons at the Hotel Henry's Silver Grill, .. . If convenient, how about dropping in once in a while? 
Ference.... after leaving the operations' division of the Transcontinental and Western Air­lines. .. . went with the East Pittsburgh branch of Westinghouse Electric, where he is in the ne­gotiations* division of motor sales.... The mar^ riage of Rosemary Courtney and George Martinet, 
*34, took place at Dunbar on April 14 They motored to Iforrisburg and Washington, D. C... . They're at home at Dunlevy, near Charleroi.... Rady Cmkovic reports that Harry Wanderly, who earned his H.A. and Ph.D. at Notre Dame be­tween 1934 and 1937. is doing diabetic research at the Children's Hospital and is attending medical classes at the University of Pittsburgh Rudy also reports that Paul Lesko, ex. '35. is with the Pittsburgh branch of Coca Cola Company, where in two months he has been promoted to the posi­tion of sales supervisor.... Jim Devlin is now manager of the Butler office of Personal Finance, after spending several years in the Pittsburgh branch of that company.... The promotion hap­pened some time before Christmas.... One of the first of our fellows to be called to the army is Larry O'DonneO, '37, who left April 23 for the reception center at New Cumberland. Pa., from where he was reassigned to Fort Mende. 
1 Pavlick 

YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
Chas. B. Cnshwa. Jr., *3I, 1866 Coronado Ave.. Preddent; Clarence T. Shedtan, '40, 215 Granada Ave.. Secretary. 

Twenty members attended the second monthly alumni meeting at the Steel City Club. Ray Mil­ler, "14, who was down from Cleveland for the state convention of the Knights of Columbus, was a welcome guest. 
State Representative John J. Baddey, Regis Lymkey. George Prokop, Frank Savage, Paul ^ane and Gerald Wolf discussed old times. Dr. J. 
P. Keogh found time to drop in. while the "Vin­dicator" spared George KeDey and Ridiard Riley for the evening. Paul Gnamieri brought George Bodu- down from Warren. He exi>ects to be draft­ed this summer. 
Gearge Sdudel, '35, of Gerard will be Father Sdiidel, C.S.C.. after June 15. Many of us will attend his first Mass on the 22nd. 
June 23 we meet at Kirding Halh We have planned a big party for the boys from school and win plan for a July picnic 
—Pete Shcehan 

GRADUATE NEWS 
Universal Notre Dame night was well received here in Wilmington. Norh and Mrs. Toassaint were hosts to the crowd. Among those present were: Ed Bried. Fen Froning, George Sdilaa­dedcer and their wives, Harold Bowlus, Bert Toang, Art Baum, WHl Anzilotti and yours truly. After the broadcast we were entertained with motion pictures, including many "Kodachrome" shots taken on the campus. 
A few da3^ before the N. D. broadcast, Charlie O'Bffyle, now tipping the beam at over 200 pounds, came into town on a visit. Charlie was vacationing from his research duties with Na­tional Aniline in Buffalo. He mentioned that the next smt of cloth.-5s he acquire will probably be olive, drab in shade. 
We hear that Charlie's sidekick. At Kolfca, the distinguished (or should I say notorious) traveler, became a benedict when he married Miss Carole Ada Backus at Buffalo on April 19, 
Dr. George Bennion of the Chemistry Depart­ment faculty appearjd here recently. We all en­joyed seeing him. 
While I was at Notre Dame, Dick Norris (Ph.D., '40) rode me plenty about my Back Bay aceent. Now, the old cowpuncher has come East and I hope the New Englanders will not be too hard on his Colorado dialect. Dick is with Rem­
. ington Arms and, at present, is located at Bridge­port, Conn. *-Boh Thomas 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
» »


THE ALUMNI 
Eiigogefflenfs 
Hiss Elizabeth Barbara Malone and William C-Horfey, '25. of Saginaw, Mich. 
Hiss Catherine Gillen and Iiawrence J. Cnlliney* *2S, of New York City. 
Bliss Blargaret Elisabeth Bmce and Robert L. Neydan, '31, of Detroit. 
Hiss Jean Wilson and WiUiam P. HcCarthr, 
•38, of Garden City. L. I. 
Miss Marjorie Josephine Brodericlc and Jcbn J. Bestncer, ex '35, of Buchanan. Mich. 
Hiss Florence Ruoff and Andrew D. Hafnavel, '38, ot mdgewood, I«. I. 
Miss Naomi Eimball and Vincent J. Giseler* '40, of Chicago. 
Hiss Shirley Jane Floody and John W. Barry. *41, of VanHome, Iowa. 
Hisa Cecelia Niebauer and Wilmott Brown. '41, of South Bend. Hiss Fanchon Mullenberg and John F. Donnelly. '39, of South Bend. 
Marriages 
Ulss Patricia Joanne Smith and Dr. John C. Petione, '27, were married, April 14, in Darling­ton, N. J. 
Ilie marriase of Hiss Karen Elizabeth Olsen and Arthur L. DendiBeld, *28, took place, June 14, in Sao Paulo. Brazil, S. A. 
Miss Harsaiet HcDonongh and Bobert W. Lind, *30, were married. May 31, in Milwaukee, Wis. 
The marriaEe of Miss Marsaret Caroline Far­rell and Ted A. Twomer. '30, took place June 21, in Columbia, 9. C. 
Miss Margaret Roberta Digman and Stephen L. Homyak, '33, were married, recently, in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Miss Eva Eathryn Davis and Maurice W. Lee, '33, were married. May 10, in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Esther Elizabeth Yothers and John J. Lader. Jr., '34, took place. April 26, in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 
The marriage of Miss Helen Burke and James 

C. Devlin, '33, took place. May 21, in St. Mary of the Mount Church, Pittsburgh, Pa. Edward A. Cosgrave, '34, served as an usher. 
Hiss Margaret Feldman, sister of Thodore F. Feldraan, '34, and John F. Bieen, '33, were mar­ried. May 1, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Genevieve Feeney and James Edward Fagan, '34, took place, April IV, in Morriston, N. J. 
Miss Helen K Fochtman and Angnit Von Boedc-Un, '34. were married. May 22, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Doris G. Stein and Frank 

B. Maxwell, '3S, took place, April 19, in Toledo, 
Ohio. Hiss Janet Laurissa Kridel and Fhlip J. Heinle, 
•38, were married, June 7, in South Orange,'N. J. 
The marriage of Miss Eileen Teresa Hahon and Jolin A. Loritsdi, *36, took place, June 2, in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Miss Carola Rossie and Paul W. CamiaiBCS, '36, were married. May 31, in Watch Hill, R. L 
Miss Jane Condon Roush and John L. Sdwen­over, '36, were married. Hay 31, in South Bend. 
Miss Sophronia Claire Buchholz and WilBaa J. Schmnh], '36, were married recently in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Nora Marie Donohoe and Conal J. Byrne, '36, took place. May 3, in Her-wood, P ^ 
Miss Esther Rice and John F. McKcima, '37. were married. May 4. 
The marriage of Miss Margaret Christiansen and John C. Harbach, '37, took place. May 22, in Glen Ridge, N. J. 
Miss Frances J. Ellis and Geoice F. Fitzpatil^ *38, were married April 19, in Chestnut HiU, Mass. Thomas P. Shcils, '38, was the best man. Among the ushers were Lawrence J. Keiwin, 38, Tkaa u 
H. Atlunson, '39, J. Leonard Tokin, '38, and Wil­liam J. EUis, Jr., '35. 
The marriage of Miss Carmela Battes and Thomas L. Bohen, '38, took place May 10, in St. Paul, Minn. 
Miss Marine Russell and Lawrence A. Dillan, '38, were married, June 21, in Hudson, Mich. 
The marriage of Miss Anabelle Charters and Robert A. HcGrath, '38, took place, June 4, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Eileen Kathryn Horeland and Jokn Danid Simon, '38, were married, April 19, in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
The marriage of Hiss Claudine L Hart and Lawrence T. Eby, '38. took place. June 8. in South Bend. 
Hiss Helene Cryan and Burnett C Baser, '38, were married, April 14, in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
The marriage of Miss Georgia Christenson and Salvatore P. Scatkta, '39, took place April 12, in Jamaica. L. L 
Miss Peggy WJse and Walter F. Dray, 40, were married. May 29, in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Hiss Marguerite Theresa Ruddy and Lt. Joseph 
H. Mulaneen, "40, were married. Hay 30. in Phil­adelphia. 
The marriage of Miss Maggielee Lancaster and James L. Oelahanty, '40, took place. Hay 10, in South Bend. 
Miss Jane Deuel McKenzie and Ridlard W, Burke, '40, were married, June 7, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Hiss Anne L. Hopkins and WilUan Berta^ ex '41, were married. May 17, in South Bend. Miss Julie E. Vercseg and Charles E. Stine, '41. were married. Hay 24. in South Bend. Miss Elizabeth Joan Wink and Walter J. Crenin. '41. were married. June 7. in Detroit. 
The marriage of Miss Betty O'Brien and Sa»­nel J. NeUd, Jr.. '41, took place May 1. in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Miss Ueldred Cressy and EsgcBC L. HOI, ex '43. were married. May 10. in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Alene Thomas and . 
G. Farakaach. '37. took place. Jons 14. in SooUi Bend. 
Misa Marie O'Connor and Jaha F. WmaM, '38, were married, June 28, in the Los Chapd. Noti* Dame. L. ThMus FlaaC, '23, brother of the bride­groom, was the best man. 
The marriage' of Miss Sally Bagan and Bm y 
K. Eagel, '40. took place, June 21, in IndianapoIiSL 
Miss Tirginia Kessell and Boheit K. TIenaa. '40. were married. June 14. in Des Mranes. 

Birfhs 
Mr. and Mrs. Jaaet M. Peanen, '26. announce the birth of a daui^ter, Mary Therese. on May 6. in Flint. IGdu 
A son. Ridiard. was bom to Mr. and Mrs. gak ert B. Vadewede, '29, on Hay 19, in Chieagoi. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thaaus S. Haikey. '29, annonnea the Urth of a daughter, Judith Ann, on May IT, in Akron, Ohio. 
A daughter, Louise, was bom to Mr. and Ura. Sylvester J. DMCfccrty. '29, on April 28, in Sten­benviUe, Ohio. 
A son, Thomas F^aneia, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Bstert K. Braanm, '30, on Jan. 4, in Deni-son, Iowa. 
Dr. and Mrs, Henry B. Aswan, '32, announce the birth of a son, John Bernard, on May 11, in Louisville. 
A son, William Edward, waa bom to Mr, and Mrs. WimsB E. Carney, '32, on May 15, in Plula­delphia. 
A son, Philip James, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Jaaes H. Tratter, '32, on Jan. 31, in Jackson, Midi. 
Mr. and Mrs. Hswatd B. DeVaalt. '32, announce the birth of a son, IGchael Roger, on May 14, in Mimde, Ind. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bcgia C HcNaaura, '33, announce the birth of a son,. John Regis, on May 27, in Binghamton, N. Y. 
A danshter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. jAn B. McNasuua. '33, on May 9, in Sooth Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. A. DanaW Biice, '34, announce the birth of two daughters. Barbara Burrows, on Sept. 29. 1939. and Ann Dorian. Jan. 1. 1941, both in Brooklyn Heists. N. T. 
A son. Thomas Eugene, was bom to Mr. and MIS. Edwin A. Grahaia, '34, recently, in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jeius J. McLaaghGn, '34, announce the birth of a son, John Clement, on March U . in Pawtueket. R. I. 
Mr. and Mrs. WOBaai J. Otte, '35, announce the birth of a daughter, Lois Marie, on May 10, in Coldwater, Ohio. 
A daughter, Sharon Mary, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Jelui A. Breea, '35, on Mardi 20, in Wil­mette. IlL 
Mr. and Mrs. JaBas P. Bscca. '36, announce the lurth of a daughter, Catherine, on May 14, in Eliiabeth, N. J. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
A son, Patrick Sprague, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Charles S. Fitzsimons. '36, on Feb. 6, in Dowagiac, Mich. 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Welch, *37, announce the birth of a fiaugfater. Kathleen Jean, on April 5, . in Weedsport, N. Y. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph £. Hannan, *39, announce the birth of a daughter, recently, in Poughkeepae, 
N. y. 
A son, William Anthony, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Thciscn, '39, on Jan. 31, in Salem, N. J. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward F. Stack, '39, annonnce the birth of a son, Edward Francis, on April 21, in Mishawaka, Ind. 


Deaths 
Patrick J. BIcDonald, 1S73-75. a disdnguishcd, lifelong resident of Fort AVayne, Ind., and presi­dent of the Peoples Trust and Savings Company, died there, on June 15, after a six month illness. 

He was an active member of the Indiana and American Banking Associations and was secre­tary of the Fort Wayne Building Loan Fund and Savings Association before founding of the Peo­ples Trust and Savings Bank. 
Mr. McDonald was a member and trustee of the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception, the Holy Name Society, the Knights of Columbus and the Fort Wayne Elks Lodge. 
Surviving are three sons, Kenneth V. B. Mc­Donald. Donnelly P. McDonald, '12, and William 
C. F. McDonald, all of Fort Wayne. 

Dr. Patrick F. Campbell, Indianapolis dentist, a student at Notre Dame in 1893-95, died on May 
6. He practiced in India before he opened his dental office in Indianapolis in 1920. 
Charles M. Niczcr, *95-'9S, outstanding citizen 

of Fort Waj-ne, Ind., for many years, father of 
Louis F. Niezer, *29, died on May IS as the re­
sult of a kidney and heart ailment. Less than 
two weeks before, his football teammate at Notre 
Dame, William'C. Kegler, died in Cincinnati. 
Mr. Niazer received his A.B. and his LL.6. degrees from Indiana University, in 1899 and 1900, respectively, and an M.A. from Columbia, New York City, in 1901. Entering the practice of law in Fort Wayne in September, 1901, he quickly rose to prominence in many phases of the city's life. He was president of the Allen County Bar Association and vice-president for Indiana of the American Bar Association. He became president of the First National Bank of Fort Wayne in 1922 and served later as \ice-p resident of the American Bankers Association. He was president of the Tokheim Oil Tank & P'ump Co. 
Active in many social groups and fraternal or­ganizations of Fort Wayne, Mr. Niezer was par­ticularly active in the Knights of Columbus. He was an active member of the Cathedral of Im­maculate Conception for many years and ser\'ed as a trustee of the congregation. He w^as also a trustee of the church's fund for the education of needy boys and served on the board of governors of the Catholic Church Extension Society, as a trustee of "Our Sunday Visitor" and as a trustee of Gibault Home for Boys, Terre Haute, Ind. 
Sur\'iving Mr. Niezer are his son. Louis, two daughters and seven grandchildren. His %\-ife died in an automobile accident in 1927. 
William C. Kcglcr, B.S. '98, C.E. '99, of Cin­cinnati, engineer of track and roadway for the Big Four railroad system, died on May 5 from tt heart attack. Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., 
United States provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, a classmate and close friend of Hr. Kegler, attended the funeral in Cindnnati on May 8. 
One of the notable Notre Dame athletes of the late 1890's, a monogram winner on the football teams of 1896 and '97, Mr. Kegler remained on the campus as a teacher for four years after his graduation. A member of the Big Four organiza­tion for 38 years, he was one of the oldest em­ployes in point of service and held one of the road's most important engineering positions. 
Mrs. Kegler died two years ago and there were no children. 
An announcement from his family brings word of the death, on May 25, of Dr. Gustavo L Gaerrm, Aguascalientes, Me^co, a student at Notre Dame in 1902-05. 
Joseph A. Linchan, South Bend, a mechanical engineering student in 1920-21, later, for 13 years, an assistant foreman of the Studebaker Corpora­tion, died on May 5 after an illness of five years. He was a native of Geneva, N. Y. His widow, two daughters, his parents, three brothers and four sisters survive. 
A heart attack on May 4 in Hammond, Ind., 

took suddenly the life of Eugene F. Noon, Ph.B. 
Journ, '24, of South Bend. With his wife and his 
father he was en route froni South Bend to his 
native Peru, 111., for a visit when the attack oc­
curred. 
Gene was employed by both the "Mishawaka En­terprise" and the late "South Bend News-Tlraes" before he entered the employ of the Studebaker Corporation, South Bend, in 1928* There he served as editor of the "Studebaker News" and later as manager of sales promotion. He resigned in 1940 to become associated with the Pilot Engraving Co., South Bend. 
Suni'iving are his widow, his parents, two brothers and a sister. Rev. Kemdt Healy, C.S.C., who had married Gene and his wife, ofHciated at his funeral in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Elias G. Thomas, A.B., '28, of Lorain, Ohio, died in April, according to word received by the Prefect of Religion and, later from George Couo', *2S. (See 1928 news, this issue.) A kidney ailment of long standing was the cause of Al's death. 
Henrj' Lee Baker, ex. '31, formerly of Williams-port, Pa., but recently of Philadelphia, died sud­denly in Scranton on May 13 after a heart at­tack. He was employed by Cooper Brothers of Philadelphia, traveling in eastern Pennsylvania. 
News of the recent and sudden death of Aldo 

B. Canolcsio, A.B. '38, Weedsport, N. Y., was brought to the campus by Joe Welch, '37, also of Weedsport. Al was employed in the Weedsport postoffice. Details of his death are unfortunately lacking. He is survived by his parents and one brother. 
Robert E. Fordj-cc, of Chicago, Notre Dame student in 193S-39. a ferrj- plane pilot on his way to England by troopship, was lost at sea several weeks ago when the ship was torpedoed. Ten other United States ferry plane pilots were lost at the same time, in a total casualty list of 122. 
Bob, from Gilman, 111., resided in Chicago and was a member of the North Shore Flying Club, after his year at Notre Dame. He was 20 years old. 
The "Alumnus" extend sincere sympathy to Michael A. Donahnc, '93, upon the death of his wife; Clement Micinski, '29, upon the death of father; George N. Bates, '37. upon the death of father; Paul L. O^Toole, *32, Jastin R. OTooIe. *36, and Bartholomew D. O'Toole. '39. upon the death of their mother. 

Personals 
Before 189G l„f..^^'^ 
189 0  9 9  ''*''  '*  ^  HacNaioara,  VJ,  
I07V-7 7  g,,„j  Jo.«|*'»  SuiUriuB,  
HooBt Cfemena. Wddfan.  

COSIMENCEltlENT REGISTRANTS (1891) John L. Herman, South Bend; (1893) 

Rev. Joseph Masuire, CS.C. Notre Dame: (Jeorce 
L. O'Brien. South Bend: (1897) J. W. Loshbough, 
South Bend; Rev. John A. MacNamara, Mt Clem­
ens. Mich.; William A. Walsh. Yonkers. N. Y.; 
(1898) Frank E. Herine. South Bend: (1899) 
Rev. Matthew A. Schumacher. C.S.C.. Holy Cross, 
Ind. 
From Father Mac: 
Not many of the alumni of the '90's were hack for the reunion. John L. Herman, '91, was back for the alumni dinner — the only one of the 50­year class. Judse "Billy" Walsh, '97, of Yonkers. 
N. Y., was back to see his son. James, graduate. 
Old students of the middle '90's will remember three old students who died recently. Fred Schillo, '94, played varsity football at tackle and was a fine miisician, playing in the band and orchestra. Bill KcEler played football and basketball. He played on the basketball team with Father Tom Steiner, Joe Naasfaton, "Bunt" Ckimell and Jack Fennessey. It was the first team to play away from Notre Dame in the '90's. Bill was in the band also, playing several instruments. Joe Nanghton was a very speedy basketball plaier. The basketball team played in Fort Wayne in the winter of 189G and was the first team to be al­lowed to play away from the campus in over half a dozen years. It started the rise of modem Notre Dame athletics. 
A number of alumni have asked about Frank "Runt" Cornell and we would be glad to know whether he is living or dead. New York alumni, please take notice. 
Robt. E. PfKtor. 'M, Uoacer 


1900-04 
Building. Elkbart, Indiana. 

COMMENCE.MENT REGISTRANTS (1901) Rev. Geo. L. Marr, C.S.C., Notre Dame; 
Jerome J. Crowley, Chicago: (1902) Rev. Leo J. 
Heiser, CS.C. Notre Dame; Vitus G. Jones'. South 
Bend: (1903) Rev. J. L. Carrico, CS.C, Notre 
Dame: Rev. M. J. Walsh, CS.C. Notre Dame; 
(1904) F. X. Ackermann. Notre Dame; Thomas 
A. K. Donnelly. Bay City. Mich.; G. A. Fara­
baugh. South Bend; Rev. Thomas Irving. C.S.C.. 
Notre Dame; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago: (1905) 
William D. Jamieson. Chicago: W. A. Stevens, 
Topeka, Kansas: (1906) Rev. Eugene P. Burke, 
C.S.C., Notre Dame: Rev. Charles L. ]3oremus. 
C.S.C., Notre Dame: Rev. Edward Finnegan, 
CS.C, Notre Dame; Rev. Cornelius Hagerty, 
CS.C, Notre Dame: Rev. Hugh B. MacCauley. 
C.S.C, Notre Dame; Rev. John C. JIcGinn. CS.C, 
Notre Dame: William P. O'Neill, Mishawaka, Ind.: 
Rev. John M. Ryan. CS.C. Notre Dame; (1907) 
Rev. William A. Bolger, CS.C. Notre Dame: Rev. 
Wendell P. Corcoran. CS.C. South Bend: James 
V. Cunningham. Chicago; Rev. William F. Cun­
ningham. CS.C.. Notre Dame: (1908) J. A. 
Caparo. Notre Dame; (1909) Rev. Richard J. 
CoIIentinc, CS.C, Notre Dame. 
The (Lionel Hoynes cash award for general ex­cellence in law, annually presented to a graduate in the College of Law, was this year won by a name long familiar in Notre Dame circles, — William F. Mclncrny, of South Bend, son of the late William A. Mclncrny, '01, former president of the Alumni Association. After he passes the Indiana bar. Bill will be associated in the prac­tice of law in South B3nd with his brother-in-law. Aaron Hugucnard, *22. Ruth Mclncrny, sister of the younger Bill, is secretary to J. Arthur Hale*, director of public relations. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
BcT. Itomaa E. Bntke, C& C 1905-09 't1, Notra Dame, Indiana. 
BcT. H. L. Horiarty, St. Blary'a Chuth. 1910 Mentor, Ohio. 
COMKIENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Howard F. Beechinor. Detroit; James E. Deery. 
Indianapolis: Rev. Peter Hebert. C.S.C., Notre 
Dame; Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C.. Notre Dame: 
Claude A. Sors. ftliddletown. Oliio. 
I A | I FiW Stccra, KCC First National Bank *'* * BaiUinc, CUcace, minoii. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Rev. "William A. Carey, C.S.C., Notre Dame; 
Bev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C.. Notre Dame: Elmo 
Funk, Anderson, Ind.; Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, 
C.S.C., Notre Dame; J. H. La\vton, South Bend; 
Joseph B. Murphy, Dayton: E. J. Quinn, Rock­
ville Onter, N. Y.; Lawrence P. Schuljcrt, South 
Bend: Fred L. Steers, Chicago. 
Otto Probst, statistician with the Indiana & Michigan Electric company. South Bend, is now Lieut Col. Probst of the United States Army. He reported on May 20 at the headquarters of the seventh army corps, Birmingham. Ala. for one year's active service. He has been connected with the Army Reserve since 1922. 
At the Alumni Banquet. Father John McGinn, C.S.C., 'Oe. tells a story as Ed Quinn, 'II, Dan ShouvUn, '14. and Bill KcUeher. '15, (facing, left to rieht) listen. The two broad backs are Fred Steers, '11. left, and Jap Lawton, '12. 
 J. Kaiser. 324 Fanrth St.. PK«>­1912 B. bnrgh, Pennsylvania. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS John W. Bannon, South Bend; J. F. Donahue, 
South Bend: Don Hamilton, Columbus; Benedict 
J. Kaiser, Pittsburgh; E. H. Savord, Sandusky, 
Ohio; A. H. Wrape, Parasould, Ark. Rev. Edward J. Duncan, son of Walter Duncan, '12. was ordained on June 8 by Most Rev. Joseph 
H. Schlarman, D.D., in S t Mary's Cathedral, Peoria, 111. His first solemn Mass, in St. Patrick's Church, La Salle, 111., was on June 15. 
Pa d B. Byrne. University Library. 
1913 
Notre Dame. Indiana. 
COSIMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Clyde E. Broussard. Beaumont, Texas; Paul R. 
Byrne, Notre Dame; William E. Cotter, New 
York City; V. C. Scully, Evanston, 111. 
aQ« ^ Frank H. Hayea, S42 TMid Ave.. 
I » i ^ Chnia Vista. California. 

COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS 
<3eoil Birder, Notre Dame; Walter Clements, 
South Bend: Thomas B. Curry. Hartford, Conn.; 
Dr. D. M. Nigro, Kansas City. Mo.; Ronald S. 
O'Neill, Detroit; Daniel R. Shouvlin, Springfield, 
O.: Joseph F. Smith, Cleveland. 
•
 QVI* James E. Santord. 3715 Clinton Ave. 

•
 ' ' ** Benryn. Hlinols. 


COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Ray Eichenlaub, Columbus. O.; Joseph J. Healy, Des Plaincs, Bl.; Galvin Hudson. Memphis, Tenn.; William A. Kelleher. Lorain, Ohio: Raymond J. Kelly, Detroit . . , -. 

Joe Byrne, re-elected a commissioner of New­ark, N. J., was recently chosen by the Commis­sion as director of the Department of Public Works. 
191 & <^">^'' Miller. 610 Wisconsin. Ave., Racine. Wis. 
CO»niENCElklENT REGISTRANTS 
Edward Beckman, Manhasset N. Y.: Hngh E. 

Carroll, Hammond, Ind.; Robert E. Daly. Pitts­
burgh; J. E. Eckel, Syracuse, N. Y.; Francis X. 
Finneran, Notre Dame: Joseph P. Flynn, Roches­
ter, N. Y.; A. Fries, Peru, Ind.: Timothy P. 
Galvin, Hammond, Ind.; Frank J. Hiss, South 
Bend: Louis Keifer. Terrc Haute, Ind. J. J. Ko­
vacs, South Bend: C. J. Krajewski. Dubuque, la.; 
Patrick Maloney, Crown Point Ind.: Dr. Jeremiah 
A. McCarthy, ^Vhiting, Ind.: Walter P. McCourt 
Akron, Ohio: Thomas A. McLaughlin, Detroit; 
Grover F. Miller, Racine, Wis.; Rev. E. Vincent 
Mooney, CS. C Washington, D. C.; Rev. J. Hugh 
O'Donnell. C.S.C, Notre Dame; Dr. Edward C. 
Ryan, CHiicago: Edwin H. Sommerer. South Bend; 
W. W. Truner, Notre Dame. 
"You old guys will all stay at Dillon," the stu­dents at information booth said: 
Old! — not 191G, just a hit fattish, a few pair of glasses here and there, a mop of gray hair or a bald head — eight sets of "store teeth" were checked in. 
All roomed on two floors of Dillon — boy irfaat fan! No. 25 was official headquarters in diarge of Jahn Ed d and Bcb Daly and what stories w«9ce told and songs were snng.' 
President Haik O'Donnell. CS-C a 'IGer. presided at a special banquet on Friday m^ t with his clerical classmate. Ber. Vincent H—mtr, C.S.C.. as master of ceremonies. All those present told stories of "Skives." snipe hunts, marble cham­pions, etc,. — they even burned the Hill Street car again. Bay Eickenlaak. '15. president of the Alunmi Association was a guest. 
As Tim Galvin is busy as national head of the Fourth Degree K. of C's, Grover BOIler was to take Tim's place as class secretary. 
The 26 present had a'picture taken and signed a card, both of which may be had for at total of Sl.OO from Grover BfiHer. 
A huge class reunion is being planned for either 1942 or 1943 for all 1916 men. 
1916 REUNION 
The Silver Anniversary Class of 19IS gathered on the steps of the Main Boildinc on Saturday i ing to Erect Frank Leahy, '31, and for this pictare. In the front row, left to right, are W. W. Tomer, Jake Eckel. Joe Flynn, Shorty (Thomas) McLancUin. Frank Leahy. Father Hagh O'Donnell. CS. C Joe Kovacs and Grover Miller; center. Ray Kelly. '15. Father Vincent Mooney. CS.C., Ed Beckman. Loa Keifer, Dr. Ed Ryan and Hagh Carroll: back row. Dr. J. A. McCarthy, Frank Hiss. Boh Daly. Casey Krajewski. Pat Maloncy and Walter McCourt. Several members of the class arrived on the campas after 
the picture. 
The architecture class of 1916 registered 100 per cent and joined forces with Ray Eichenlanb, architect of '15 and president of the Alnmni As­sociation last year, for the lower pictare. Left to right are Casey Krajewski. Jake Eckel. W. W. 
Turner. Eich and Joe Flynn. 
 J. HcOsktr, 3SM Fi 


1917 Uwaid 
BM „ Ckrdairi Bslglits^ OU*. 
COMMENCEMENT BEGISTBANTS James I. Boland, South Bend: Cbet Grant. 

South Bend: Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr.. Chicago; 
Harry F. Kelly, Detroit: Austin A. McNichoIs. 
Chicago; Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell. Pittsburgh; Ber­
nard J. Voll, South Bend. 
Paol Fogarty. VrGH producer (Chicago), is staging the "Ask-it-Ball" quiz programs broad­cast from various Army posts and Navy stations weekly. 
Former Illinois Attorney Cteneral John E. Caa­sidy, of Peoria, HI. recently spoke at the annual banquet of'the Notre Dame Law Club. 
1918 JskB A. Lnamer, H I Lake Shaca Ditoe. Kaeanaka. MkUgan. COMMENCEMENT BECSSTBANTS 
Rev. Matthew A. Coyle. "C.S.C.; Rev. George I. 
Holderith, C.S.C., Notre Dame. Ind.; Francis J. 
Hurley. Chicago; Joseph T. Riley, Muskegon. 
Mich.; (George A. Schock, South Bend. 
. Tom Kinr bas r^gned as line coach at Hichi-' sran State CoMege, East Lansmsr, to become head of the college's iwHce administration division. 
VQ^ A Gbrcnctt Bader, 650 Fierce Stzwt, 
• ' • ' Gary. Indians. 

COHBfENCEHENT REGISTRANTS Paul Fenlon, Notre Dame; T. G- Rademaker, Pern. Ind. 
1090 ''** ^ Waid« 1012 Black Bldff^ L M 
• '^^ ABfdes. California. 
COBOIENCEHENT REGISTRANTS 
M. Edward Doran, South Bend: George Kerver, 

Cleveland; L. H. Leslie. "Waverly, Iowa.; Grover J. 
Halone, South Bend: Edward J. Meehan, South 
Bend; Clifford O'SuIHvan, Port Huron, Mich.; 
Dillon J. Patterson, South Bend; John C. Powers, 
Clevdand. 
From te c Ward: I just received the "Alumnus" and the 1920 col­umn looks rather bare. It's getting more difficult to distinguish the various members of the class, so I trust that I will be pardoned if I mix in a few of the others. 
I recently had a letter from Dick Leslie who is practicing law in Waverly, Iowa. He told me that he had quite a visit with Jake Kline when Jake had the Notre Dame baseball team in that part of the country. 
Tliaddens A. Walsh, known around "Walsh Hall as Tad Walsh, formerly of Montana, dropped in the other day. He had been in Washington from where he brought back the report that Senator 
D. Worth Clailc, who, graduated in 1922 but was in Corby Hall during 1918, 1919 and part of 1920, is one of the loyal opposition and is no more con­vinced now than he was at the time he delivered the Commencement address in 1940 that the United States should become Involved in the Euro­pean war. Tad Walsh also reports that Bob 0*Hara» of the class of 1920, who is a younger brother of Bidiop O'Hara* is employed in the Department of Agriculture in Washington and that he had a very nice visit with him. He also reports that Joseph Patridc 0*Hara, United States Congressman from Glencoe. Minn., is making him­self known, even though this is his first term in Congress. 
A letter from the firm of Smith, Swift and Bfaloney indicates that Dick Swift is still prac­ticing law in Davenport, la. Each letter carries new names on the masthead and indicates that Dick is expanding and taking in additional Notre Dame alumni. 
The reading public may not recall that Jimmy Connerton, now the Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C. and an active authority on church music, is now the registrar at Notre Dame. This is a long jump from the days when Jim and Gene Heidelman ran the book store and Father Slatthew Shumach­er was registrar during our time. 
I recently had a nice visit from Father John Cavanancfa who during our time at Notre Dame was the prefect of "Cadillac" Hall and secretary to the revered Father John Cavanaugh, the elder. 
Ted Sheahan, who may be remembered for his Corby Hall football and track ability, not to men­tion the fact that he was one of the few persons at Notre Dame who could not be canned for skiv­ing because he lived in Alaska at the time and could not be sent home because the following sdiool term would have commenced before Ted could have gone home and returned, has returned to Los Angeles. He had been away for several years in Portland. I understand that he has re­newed his license to practice law in the state of California and expects to agmn hang out his shingle. 
George "Obie" O'Brien, of "Juggler" fame, and Delmar J. Edmondson, who was one of the iirst of the fellows to affect a checkered sport coat, are 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
both here in Los Angeles. Obie is managing' a division of Fox Theatres, having left the prmetiee of the law and the job of municipal judge at New Rochelle. HI. to come to California where manag­ing a theater has more advantages than practxcdnff law and being a judge in New Rodielle. 
Oiariie Cnxadc, one of the many Cosacks who 

resided at Walsh Hall during the period £rom 1916 to 1920, is living in Beverly Hills. He reports that Alden J. Ctuick, whose exchange of greetings ' with Sweeney was the only interruption in fals pursuit of knowledge aside from being a trap drummer, is again with the Genera] Outdoor Ad­vertising Corporation and is the director of sales with headquarters in New York, having been moved from Chicago. Charlie Cusack tells VB that Alden Cusick spends a great deal of his time as an amateur photographer. From my little knowl­edge of photography, it takes a job sudi as di­rector of sales for a national organization to save enough spending money to indulge in sndi a 
hobby. 
An occaaonal trip to the State Building in X^os Angeles affords a pleasant conversation with Jae Sattner who is still a deputy in the Department of Hnance in charge of all brokers in the sooth-em part of the state. 
Eddie BEdlahon, formerly of Anderson, Ind.» is seen around the Los Angeles County Court House where be handles the court house detail for the "ntle Insurance and Trust Company and the Beal­ty Tax Service. 
You may have noUced that Slip MaJiyaw is expected to reopen his race track at Oakland. Slip is general manager of the Oakland track and the track was supposed to open in December but due to the "unusual" weather which we now learn is found in northern California as well as southern California, Slip's racing season was rained out. He expects to do better next year. 
At the Universal Notre Dame Night we were pleased to see Larry Ott who is still building schools and churches, also Chile Waldt of football fame, who was there with his new boss, Jimmy Conselman, coach of the Chicago Cardinals. 
I notice that the class of 1915 has not made mention of the fact that Tom Heam, who has a ' son at Notre Dame has been in the hospital for more than five months. He was in an automobile accident and had a broken leg and was just out of the hospital a couple of days when one of these "women drivers" lost control of her car, ran up over the curb onto the sidewalk and hit Tom« breaking both of his legs as well as fracturing a hip, maldng it necessary for him to be in St. Vincent's Hospital for about five months. I called recently at the hospital and they tell me that Tom will be able to get around in another couple of 
At the Notre Dame meeting there was also Tom Ashe, Oscar Sidenfaden, Joseph I. Kane and Salvini Baiano, who was at Notre Dame only one year and is now a talent scout for Warner Bros. 
Reports from Defiance, Ohio, by way of Cleve­land, state that Walter Riley MiBer "of Defiance, Ohio," the man from whom you can tell the size of the town by the way he wore his hat, is still going strong. I understand Walter is practidng law and got back to Notre Dame for the 20-year reunion last year, one of the few who made it. I understand that he, together with fifike DoraDf Grover Malone and little Willie CoagUin, repre-' sented the dass. Inddentally, reports say that Mike Doran is just as tall as Willie Coughlin used to be and is as broad as anybody could hope to be and still stand. At least the practice of law has afforded Hike plenty to eat, otherwise he couldn't afford to maintain the figure he is reputed to have. 
A couple other of the Notre Dame brothers K ^ have come to my attention are John Rider, a more recent graduate who conducted the radio programs for the President's Hardi of Dimes, this being the third successive year that John Rider • has had this job, and Eaunett HcCafce, who it is interesting to note is secretary to Congressman John Cbstello of California. 

Ton Tmder is still the man of authority and affairs in New Mexico. Ihough New Mexican pol­itics have apparently gone Democratic, Tom is still a Republican. 
I heard recently from Jack Higgins, now of the firm of Wurzer & Higgins. From all reports. Jack's marriage a year ago has not in any way interfered with his ability to attend to his exten­sive practice in Detroit. 
Needless to say, at the Unversal Notre Dame Night the Kennedy boys. Gene. Charles and Larry, were there in full force. Gene is still an execu­tive officer of the trust department of the Bank of America, the fourth largest bank in the United States, and apparently is holing his own with Hohan and Beacom of Chicago, in the matter of progress in handling trusts. From the number of times I see Gene's press reports, he devotes a good part of his time to looking after the Fairbanks estate and the Thalberg estate. 
BCss Patricia Frances Collins, who, incident­ally, is a teacher of my youngest daughter, has annotmced her engagement to Oscar Sidenfadeiu According to Bliss Collins the wedding is to take place on July 10 at the Holy Spirit Church in 'Los Angeles. They will leave immediately follow­ing the wedding for a honeymoon in Honolulu. Hiss Collins is a graduate of the Immaculate Heart of Mary College in Los Angeles, also a etadoate of the Univeraty of California at Los Angeles. Si. it will be remembered, was the win­ner of the frolden medal In engineering, class of 1920 (not the valedictorian as reported last year). I find one way to get some of our fellow alumni to write is to make a mistake; you certainly hear from them in a hurry when an honor is given to the wrong jverson. It may be recalled that Tom Tobin. now the Rev. Thomas Tobin, vicar general of the archdiocese of Portland, Ore., was the 
valedictorian of the class. 
 W. DaKy. ItW Temliul Tmnr, 

1921 Dia 
Oerelairi. OUou 
COHHENCEHENT REGISTRANTS 

A. R. Abratns. Atlanta, Ga.: William S. AUen, 
Winnetka, III.; Norman C. Barry, Chicago; Thom­
as C. Barty, Chicago: Joseph R. Brandy, Ogdens­
borg, N. Y.: Gerald J. Craogh, Great Neck, 
N. Y.; Dan Duffy, Cleveland; Donald J. Easley, 
Notre Dame; Gerald J. Hoar. Notre Dame; Leo 
D. Kelley, Syracuse. N. Y.; Harry McLellan, 
Notre Dame: Callix E. Miller, South Bend; Ste­
phen F. Nyikos, Gary, Ind.; Joseph F. Sanford, 
Muskegon, Mich.; R. J. Schubmehl. Notre Dame; 
Walter A. Sweeney, South Bend; George C. Wit­
teried, Chicago. 
Not too strong in numbers, but stronger than ever in enthusiasm, the 1021 class celebrated ita 20th anniversary in big league style over the week-end of Commencement. Secretary Duffy was of course on hand and he joined with the local Prophet of the Realm, Gerry Hoar, manager of the Notre Dame Laundry, in shepherding the lads and, in fact, in practically guiding around those who hadn't seen Notre Dame in 20 years. The boys gathered at Gerry's house, just off the cam­pus, on Saturday night after the banquet to pass resolutions and the like. 
After the May issue of the "Alumnus" went to press Dan Dnffy heard from Mike Scanlon, Colum­bus, Ohia who couldn't make the Reunion; Ray Gmrad, ^nsa s City, Mo., who, after spending years on the campus, hasn't been back since grad­uation, even though he tried hard to make the week-end; Cedie Donean, Boston, who expected to be back, hut didn't make it. and Gerry Craagh, New York. City, who was trying to get back and £d. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
199 9 Garald Adia, 4( Wait ATaaaa. Hlltta. 
• '^^ N. Y. COMMENCEMEKT REGISTRAMTS 

Gerald "Kid" Ashe, Buffido, N. Y.: Jerome F. Dixon, Evanston, ill-: Joseph Farlev, Chicago: George F, Heneghan. Chicago; Raymond J. Keams, Terre Haute. Ind.; Eugene M. Kennedy, Loa Angclea: Paul J. Pfohl, Chicago; Walter U Shuts, Notre Dame. 
^ 09 9 Faal H. Castner, UT South ATC . New 
• '^ * Canaan, Conneetient. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS 

Vincent J. Brown, Syracuse, N. Y.; Joseph Casasanta. Notre Dame: Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Notre Dame: Dr. F. C. Doran, Akron, Ohio; John R. Flynn. Cleveland; William J. Furey, South Bend: John W. Gleason, Cleveland; Bruce Holmberg, River Forest. 111.; Edward D. Kelly, Emmetshurg, Iowa: E. P. Kreimer. South Bend; Charles Martin. Detroit; J. M. Montague, Chicago; Lewis J. Murphy, South Bend: Richard 
J. Nash, Chicago; John C Norton. Chicago; Jo­seph W. Nyikos. South Bend: Edgar J. Ranb, Cuyahoga Falls. Ohio; Rev. John J. Reddington. C.S.C., Notre Dame; Leo P. Ricder. South Bpnd; 
E. S. Ryan. Frecport. 111.: William E. Shea, Dayton, Ohio; George J. Wack, Notre Dame. 
Danny Cnlhane, director of the Valentine Club, 

Chicago Boys Clubs, Inc., Chicago, was recently 
appointed program director of the newly formed 
National Catholic Community Service. An article "by Danny on the National Catholic Community Service recently appeared in "The Catholic Char­ities Review.** 
inie following news was taken from the ques­

tionnaire received from Tom Lieb. He says: "I 
have just completed one year here at the Uni­
versity of Florida and will have a good team in 
1941 if we don't lose too many to military service. 
Bloon HnUins, the fullback on the championship 

teams of 1923 and 1930 came here as backfield 
coach Feb. 1 and is doing a fine job. He is very 
popular with the student body. He has a fine 
family of five children and everyone here hopes 
he will make this his permanent home. He is the 
lame Hoon as we all knew him at Notre Dame. 
"Jadce John Wallace. '27, attended one of our basketball games and Dr. John Mohatdt. '22, spent a day with us while in Florida on his vaca­tion. Charley Badiman, 'IT, coach of Michigan State, spent a week of his vacation' here this spring renewing old acqu^ntances as he was coach here from I92S-33. 
"Jim Chadwick, '31, was married here in Gunesville to a girl from Long Island a couple of weelcs ago. Johnny Baldwin, '33, a former bas-Icetball captain, is stationed at Camp Blanding, an army camp near Gainesville. 
"At the Coaches Meeting of the Southeastern Conference we had a session and the following Notre Dame coaches got together: Harry Hehre, '22, and Chuck Jaalcwich, '33, of Mississippi, Jack Meagher, ex. '19, of Auburn, Frank Thomas, ex. '23, of Alabama, Rex Enright, '26, and Ted Two­aiey, '30, of South Carolina. These boys are all doing a fine job here in the South and are highly respected for the teams they put out," 
109^ J. F. Hayea, 3SS 7th An , Boaa Ull, IT AH ii„ York City. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS 

Thomas E. Cooke, Chicago: Newell Do Gurse. Port Huron, Mich.; J. Howard Haley. New York City; Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C, Notre Dame; 
P. C. Martin. Indianapolis; James B. Meehan, South Bend; H. B. Stillman, Detroit; Edward S. Sullivan. Fort Wayne. Ind. 
Frank Sabine has been appointed assistant general superintendent of the American Crystal Sugar Co., Denver. 
109 c J<*^ P- Hariey. JOSS Braakdah laa C • 7^ 9 Toledo, Ohio. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS 

James E. Armstrong, Notre Dame; Thomas Barry, Notre Dame; C. L. Baumgartner, South Bend; W. H. Braunsdorf. South Bend: C. J. Caldwell. Cleveland; Herman G. Centlivre, Fort Wayne, Ind.; G. J. Coty, Notre Dame; Ray Cun­ningham, Detroit; Walter J. Cyr, Stamford, Conn.: Paul Doolcy. Toledo: Clarence W. Hard­ing, South Bend: John Hurley, Toledo; Willard Jones, Dixon, 111.; John J. Kane, Jr.,. Youngs­town. Ohio; Don C. Miller, Cleveland; A.- J. Porta, South Bend: George E. Rohrbach, Notre Dame. 
Edward F. O'Toole, chairman of the placement committee of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, was a guest consultant at the DePaul University Man Marketing Clinic in Chicago recently. 
109 A Jaaiea A. Roaaa, 127 If. Deaitata St , 
COItDIENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Joseph A. Bailey. Chicago; William B. Barr, 

Chalmers, Ind.; Paul S. Bcnante, East Chicago, 
Ind: Arthur Bidwill, River Forest, 111.; James D. 
Bowen. Indianapolis; J. Cullen Brown, Chicago; 
Edmund F. Burke, East Orange, N. J.; Thomas ' 
A. Burke. Brooklyn: Herbert J. Burt, Chicago; 
Adolph V. Capano, Donora. Pa,: Andrew Conlin, 
Elmhurst, HI.; Dr. B. D. Coughlin, S t Louis: 
Rev. Bernard J. Coughlin. St. Paul: Clem F. 
Crowe. Cincinnati; Frank Deitle. St. Joseph, 
Mich.; William R. Doolcy. Notre Dame; Rohert 
J. Doran, Rockford, 111.: Raymond W. Durst, 
Chicago; James F. Dwyer. Brooklyn; Herbert 
A. Eggort, Oak Park, HI.; John J. Endres. River­
side, m.; Edward A. Fallon. Brooklyn; Thomas 
A. Farrell. West Orange. N. J.; Roman C. Feld­
pausch, Hastings, Mich.: Paul J. Fleming, 
Youngstown. Ohio; J. Norhert Gelson. Summit, 
N. J.: Rudolph A. Goepfrich. South Bend: Rev. 
L. W. Gorman, C.S.C. Notre Dame; Vincent L. 
Goulet, Chicago: J. Arthur Haley, Notre Dame; 
Dr. Gerald W. Hayes. East Orange, N. J.; Law­
rence V. Keefe. New York City: Daniel J. Kelly, 
Jr., South Bend: Rev. J. H. Kenna. C.S.C.. Notre 
Dame; Clarence A. LaFollette, Chicago; Dr. 
Thomas E. Leahy, Chicago: Elbert W. Mahoney. 
Indianapolis: Charles P. Marquet, New Albanr, 
Ind.: Charles E. Mason, Indianapolis; Gerald J. 
McGinley, Ogallala, Neb.; William J. Moore, Har­
rishurg. Pa.; Roger Nolan. Davenport, Iowa; 
George P. O'Day. Chicago: Daniel J. O'Neill, 
East Orange. N. J.: Edward T. O'Neill, Detroit; 
James M. Pearson. Flint, Mich.; Joseph W. 
Quintan. South Bend; Michael B. Reddington, In­
dianapolis ; James A. Ronan. Chicago; John J. 
Ryan. Pittsburgh: Arthur F. Scheer, South Bend: 
Joseph Sexton. Indianapolis: Thomas W. Sheri­
dan, Berganfield, N. J.; Dr. James K. Stack, Chi­
cago: Wade W. Sullivan. Algona. Iowa; John D. 
Tuohy. Oak Park. HI.; Joseph A. Walsh. Notre 
Dame; Seymour Weisberger. South Bend; Maurice 
P. Welsh, Brady Lake, Ohio; Bernard K. Winger­
ter. East Orange, N. J.; Victor G. Y'awman, 
Rochester, N. Y. 
They came from all the comers. The New Jer­sey gang, with the missing Eddie Barke in tow. 
dented the campus early Friday morning, the first big group from '26. Mayor McGinley and his merry cowboys reined violently up to the Main Building steps, with a loud whoop and a volley for Ogallalla, Ncbr. — also on Friday, but witli­out the Cheyenne sixshoater.Frank Ban, Medics of the class, Jiai Stad^ Bert CoatUin. Toai Leaky and Shadow Hayes got started almost at once on a '26 clinic, and Telephonemen Mason. Sheridaa and Qsinlan went into a huddle on non-twisting 'phone cords. 
Sec Bonan herded in the Chicago contingent. — even Beik Eggert, who hadn't been under the dome in many a moon. Indianapolis didn't regis­ter until Saturday afternoon, for the most part, but then in good numbers. 
The note was decidedly on the informal side, of course. The only formal class gathering.was tlie luncheon Saturday noon attended by 67 (includ­ing a few old men of *25 and a couple of '27 youngsters) and even here informality reigned. Sonan presided to extent of asking Father Keana — or was it Father Gorman? —. to say prayers 
1926 REUNION 

The class of '26. celebrating iU IStk leaaiaB. ale and ate. hat Ad lad Omc. feeHeve it ar aat. far a few other slight divenians. Abare is an "air view" at the '26 data taaAcan Satarday aosa. At Oc tap Wade Sullivan and Joe BtOtr halwaifc one af the da*a tables at Oe Alaauii Baaqaet. backed ap by Aady Conlin, Herb Burt, Jim Pearson and Mike Beddiagtaa. Baae Fddpaaich leads o( in fnat ia the oater picture (Uken at the lancfacon). and the sappartiac carreis are Viace Capaaa, Eddie FaBaa aad JIa Dwyer. 
for the deceased members of the class, adding the name of Dr. Chack Wood who. as the Alumni Of­fice found out after the May "Alumnus," had been dead for several years. Jim also read the list of **unclaimed" '26ers and several current addresses resulted. 
Tribute was paid to the Crowe brothers, Ed and CIem> who chose a distinctive way to commemo­rate the 15th anniversary of the class — 15 chil­dren. £d has six and Clem nine. Sec. Harley of '25 suggested that next year there be a joint luncheon of '24, '25, '26 and '27. and this idea was unanimously adopted. The returned members of the class sat toeether at the Alumni Banquet on Saturday night to enjoy a virtual repetition of the toothful class lunch. Senator Bidivill and Jud ^ John Wallace, an honest-to-goodness '26-er although, officially, a '28er, presided in one large "session" room in Lyons Hall, the '26 headquar­ters, after the banquet, and there were other "sessions" and other presiding officers in other rooms. You can imagine! 
Sunday morning at 8:30 Bemic Coughlin — we just can't get used to that "Father" tacked on — said his Mass in the Lyons Chapel for the de­ceased members of the class, with Eddie Fallon giving the old legs a workout as ser\'er. This was doubtless the most impressive '2$ gathering of the week-end: that old quarter miler, the fellow we used to sit next to in class, up there on the altar saying the Mass, memories of the hopes, the sor­rows, the happiness of the past 15 years and, especially, sad recallings of, many a prayer for. the 22 who arc gone. A Notre Dame gathering in the finest Notre Dame way! 
In between, round and about there was golf, swimming in the pool of the Rockne Sremorial, walks around the lakes and, every^vhere many and many a "session." The informality of Notre Dame and a glorious week-end. If you didn't make it this year, be sure to count on '46. Ask the man who was here. 
Special thanks to Sec Bonan who, with his own labor and at his own expense, got out all the questionnaires and notices of the reunion and did much of the arranging. Jim, as you can Im-' a^ne, worked hard. The questionnaires will pro­vide many a note for the future class columns. 
A presstime call from the prefect of religion brings sensational news regarding one of the brethren, a certain L. V. Keefc who. it seems. will cast aside ear trumpet, wheel chair and crutches some day soon to prance up" the aisle like a '41er to be joined in holy matrimony. Gen­tiemen, to the happy bridegroom and his bride — in Lily Tulip cups! 
199 7 Joseph BL Boland, Field House. Pnrdae 
•'^ ' Vmrersity^ West Lafayette, Ind. 
COHfifENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Paul M- Butler, South Bend; Charles E. Car­
tier, Jr., Qiicago; William J. Coyne, Notre Dame; 
Don Fitzgerald, Mundelein, HI.; G. A. Froelich, 
Newark, N. J.; John Halpin, Chicago; Robert 
Irmiger, Chicago; Herbert E. Jones. Notre Dame; 
Charles "Pinkie" Martin. Pittsburgh: Edward J. 
McLaughlin, Chicago; John McNellis. Chicago; 
Joseph F. O'Donnell. Chicago; Stephen Ronay, 
Notre Dame; Rev. Frederick Schulte, C.S.C.. 
Notre Dame; John W. Slattery, Chicago; A. T. 
Smithberger. Notre Dame; John J. Wallace. Calu­
met City, m.: Ernest J. Wilhelm. Notre Dame: 
Paul Withey. South Bond. 
From Joe Boland: Another Commencement has come and gone— and they're beginning to look like the pickets in a fence passed at 60 m.p.h.! So fast, you'll be surprised at the suggestion ad\'anced in the clos­ing part of this bit of information from your &ithfa! scrivener. 
We bad the pleasure of a round of alleged golf Memorial Day with Eddie McLaoghlin, and Bob Inairer—those rising Chicago attorneys. It's onr fond hope that we're able to coach and they're able to practice law better than all of na play golf! Others personally "contacted" — as the bright young men put it—^were John MeNcDit* bigger than ever, with ever present dgar; and his cohorts, John Halpin and Don FitzreraU* all from Chicago. Ensrene "Scrapiron" YtNinr* in his 12th year of trmning Notre Dame athletes, graced Sunday's monogram luncheon on Commencement week-end. as did Steve Ronay, ex-cnrveball artist on the diamond, now tutoring Notre Dame's Eng­lish students. 
Pat Canny golfed his way through a fast week­end, but hied himself off to Cleveland before the Secretary could check up with him. ShoofinEr a snappy 75 to 80 these days—so don't let him talk you into a ball game, if he visits your town— as he may. travelling for the legal department of the Erie Railroad. 
Loa Conroy, we understand, has been recently promoted with the Bell Telephone Co. of Mich­igan, and now is supervisor for the northern area —if that's the correct title. And from personal correspondence, Joe Maxwell, now coaching line for Cincinnati University's football team, has welcomed a baby boy into his family—last Aprit 
We also heard that Bart Favero, the Leeehburg, Pa., furniture man. has recently been seriously ill, battling an appendix and pneumonia at the same tinie. Hope, by the time this reaches the. light of day, that Bart is well on the road to recovery. 
From reliable Chicago operatives, the elusive Dan Moore has been revealed as the father of a sixth child, Kathleen, born April 2. The Moore family now includes Pa and Ma, George, Danny, Patsy, Nancy. Timothy and Kathleen! Tie that, you twenty-seveners! 

Frank Mayer, of the Glencoe. Minn., Mayers. has jxist finished a highly successful term of of­fice as prexy of the Twin Cities Notre Dame Club —an organization Frank has graced actively since the 20's. 
And here's the suggestion mentioned above: it springs from that would-be machine-politician, Joe O'Donnell, who delights in having unsuspect­ing people named to jobs like this one. It's a grand idea, and even at the risk of rushing things, here it is: Next Commencement—1942— is at once the Centennial year of the TJnivcraty*s founding, and the ISth anniversary of the gradu­ation of the class of '27. Pot those two facts to­gether, and you get O'Donnell's idea—the biggest reunion yet, in Centennial year, of the best class the University has graduated in the 100 year span! (Pm fooling—^you other classes!) With an early start, you'll be hearing from us in these columns as to our organization for the reunion. Meanwhile, think it over and begin to figure on ' being on the campus in M2! 
Vince Ball, of the Wasson Department Store, Indianaimlis, in the office a few weeks ago, re­ported on the other Ball boys, his brothers. Bay, '29, is in charge of the shoe department for the Saks Fiftii Avenue store in Chicago. Gerald, *3I, is with the Ohio Oil Co.. Findlay, Ohio. Hie Balls came to Notre Dame from their home in Plymouth. Ind. 
I 09 0 I^*<^ P- BacUcy. Box 124, ir«Cn 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS 
J. W. Boehning, Indianapolis; J. Patrick Canny, 
Cleveland; Anthony Ceres, Perth Amboy. N. J.; 
George Coury. Chicago; William H. Downey. 

Notre Dame: John C, Fontana. Columbus. Ohio; 
John F. Frederick, Muskegon. Mich.; Henry Has­
ley. Fort Wayne: Joseph P. Kinneary, Cincinnati; 
Robert Kjiox, Benton Harbor. Mich.; E. F. Mc-
Clamon. Detroit; Edward P. McKeown. Chicago; 
Edward R, Quinn. Notre Dame; R. E. Rich. Notre 

Dame; R. Floyd Searer, South Bend. 
From Georre Conry to Loa BotUey: Art Stenins and Larry Wincerter certainly make it hard for anyone to write a column following the fine work they did last month. I suggest that their column be an annual affair but please have it come in September the next time. Thanks a lot. Art and Larry, for all the information you gave us. You boys missed your calling. You should be full fledged reporters. 
First, I*ou, permit me to congratulate you on your recent appointment as legislative adviser to the Social Security Board. I join your other class­mates in wishing you every possible success. And I am sure that every member of the class of 192S also joins me in congratulating Bill Cronin on his appointment as executive assistant to the Postmaster General. I doubt if this singular honor was ever before conferred on anyone so young. Truly your classmates are very proud of yon. Bill, and we send you our best wishes. 
As usual, our handsome president headed the list of those of us who were fortunate enough to return for our 13th reunion. John Frederick is still practicing law in Muskegon, Mich., and is the proud father of t^vo future Notre Dame cen­ters and two candidates to follow Mrs. Frederick's footsteps at St. Blary's. 
Having dinner at our table was another hand­some '28er — Joe Kinneary. To the dismay of the charming maidens of Cincinnati, where Joe is practicing law, Joe continues a bachelor so he can be ready to go when his country calls. Two more lawyers flanked me while eating, John Fon­tana of Columbus and Joe McNamara of Indian­apolis. You read about Joe's success in Art's col­umn, and I predict that it is just the beginning. As you know, these Ia%vyers like to tell us what is good about the New Deal and what is bad about it. so if Jim Boehning hadn't been present, I'd feel horribly lonesome among those vociferous barristers. 
My good friend, genial Eddie Rafter, is now paying the price of not joining us benedicts. His number turned up quicker than my new straw hat does in the first summer rain and Ed is now Private Rafter at Camp Custer, Mich, I saw Ed last week and his one ambition is to break the mythical delusion that a soldier receives $21.00 per month. He has never received over $15.67 so he is organizing a union demand restoration of the basic payrate. Three more of our boys are in Michigan, all practicing law — Leo Walsh at Grand Rapids, Donovan Ran at Cedar Springs and Bob Ward at Marshall. I understand all three are considered tops in • their respective commu­nities. 
Tony Ceres, with his charming wife, came from Port Amboy while Bob Knox came from Illinois. Henry Haaley, minus his hat. once again repre­sented the law fraternity of Fort Wayne. Ron Bidi, Ed McCIamon and Professor Ed Qninn were also very much in evidence shaking hands with their many friends. 
Now as to the whereabouts of some of our missing friends. John P. Horphy is connected with the Leo Hardware Company of Littie Rock, Ark. He is married and a proud father. GeorffC Cronceyer remains the backbone of the statistical staff of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. in New York City. With George on hand to keep all the figures straight, I advise you all to take your insurance with his company. That is what I have done, George. 
Frank Donovan has returned to his first love — the making of roller bearings. You will remem­ber that Frank made his spurs early in this game and sold his company in 1935, after which he completed a course at the Harvard Business Sdiool. then became comptroller of the Massey-Harris Machinery Company. Later he entered the idiolesale drug business in Chicago. Now Uncle Sam has availed himself of Frank's services and 
Frank has begun the mannfactDring of roller bearings for the Navy at Muskegon, Mich. Good luck, Frank. 
Jim Conmey stopped in for Universal Night in Chicago while on his way to visit his people in Iowa. He reported that Bemie Garber had just stepped up to the altar to say "I do." Now Bemie is an old married man. 
Bill Leahy is now located in Chicago as credit manager for the Pet Milk Company. He reports that Carroll Finkley has forsaken the financial circles of St. Louis to return to his hometown. Carroll is another holdout against the proven false theory that two can live cheaper than one. Jerry DeClercq is still propelling the destinies of Stand­ard Brands while Dick Phelan remains chief title officer of the Chicago Title &'Trust Co. Howard Phalin continues to keep the world bright by the distribution of books of knowledge. 
Ed McKeown is fast becoming an economic roy­alist. Along with passing around the wisdom of Blackstone, Ed is now owner of a very prosperous Chrysler agency on Chicago's South Side. Kay Lawler is helping Ed make his millions by selling more and better Chryslers. "We were happy to see Pat Canny and his winning smile. Pat still thinks that the Erie R. R. carries passengers. 
As for myself, Lou, since the first of the year I have been mixing the manufacturing game with the financial game. Last year the partners of my brokerage firm and myself bought control of a company making a new kind of coal heater and I was chosen to discover ways and means to sell more stoves. Well, so far I have discovered one thing definitely, namely that the brokerage busi­ness has no monopoly on troubles. At this writing I am in Atlanta exhibiting at the National Smoke Prevention Convention and tomorrow I'm on my way to Washington to see if I can't convince TJncle Sam that my stoves will keep his boys 
•warmer. Here, Lou, is a splendid opportuntiy to help a pal. Tell those New Dealer cronies of yours that the soldiers will get pneumonia unless the Army adopts my self-stoker heater. 
Now Lou I come to that part of my messace which I wish I didn't have to write. Some two months ago my friend and a fellow Syrian, Al Thomas, passed on to his reward. F9r over a year Al knew that he didn't have a chance. An old kidney ailment turned bad in 1939 and the recur­ring spells left him weaker and weaker. Yet he was always smiling and death held no fears, for he was ready. I saw him last at the Commence­ment exercises in 1940 at which time he had his 
•wife and boy along. We had a long talk, as we did the previous August when we met on a pil­grimage to the Shrine of Our Lady of Consolation at Carey, Ohio, and I feel confident that right now Al is happy in heaven. Bat -we hate to think that he will not he with us any more and our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his people in their great sorrow. 
Bemie Garber wrote from 300 West 109th St. New York City. Bemie said that Larry CuIIincy and also John Antus were to be married soon. He also noted that Stephen E. Sherry wrote recently from 6340 Geary Ave., San Francisco. 
jM*»h r. MtNunmm. Attorney Ow­1929 en] Ont». Tii«aM»«llt. InAana. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Paul C. Bartholomew, Notre Dame: William E. 

Brown, Milwaukee: Francis J. Gushing, Kenmore. 
N. Y.: John H. Cushman. South Bend: FranHyn 
E. Doan. Wilmette. Bl.: John W. Dorcan. Win­
netka. HI.: Francis Jones. South Bend: Rnssell 
Koehl. South Bend: Bernard E. Loshbough. Wash­
ington. D. C.: John J. Lyons. Chicaco: J. H. B. 
McCarthy, South Bend: Joseph McNamara. In­
dianapdis: Joseph Mulhall, Ownsso. Mich.: Don 
J. Flunkett, Notre Dame: Dr. S. R. Richtarsic. 
The Notre DameAlumnus 
St. I^uis, Mo.: Oliver F. Schell, New York Qty; 
Cletus P. Schneider, Qeveland: Larry F. Staader, 
Notre Dame. 
Tim Moynihan recently resigned as assistant football coach and baseball coach at Denver U. 
Ed Fahey, up in St. Paul, reports that Turn Mahon, alFO a north woodsman of St. Paul, is now a sales representative for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company. Ed is itt sales and service with the Northwestern Bell Telephone Co. Bachelor Tom is the unhappy possessor of a low draft number and is anticipating selling m spot of annuity to the colonel, in between potato peelings. 
Gerry McKay, Ed says, is sales representative for the National Cash Register Co., workins out of St. Paul. Gerry Conway, *34, — just a young­ster — is already gone in the S t Paul draft. 
10^n ^^^^ ^ nanodrae, SI* Wiwilfc Br. 
•'**' New York CKr. 
COSniENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Karl T. Brennan. South Bend: John W. Gib. 
hons, Hiuhland Park, Mich.: Jerome P. Holland, 
Springfield, 111.: Robert Holmes. South Bend; 
Harold Jennings, South Be"d: Walter M. Lang­
ford. Notre Dame; Charles F. Lennon. Joliet, 111.: 
G. E. McKay. Minneapolis: Edward M. Merf^itii, 
South Bend: Fred R. Parent. South Bend: Walter 
E. Parent, Michigan Citv, Ind.: Jerome G. Reidy. 
Cleveland: Charles T. Smallwood. Chicago: Kari 
Weigand. South Bend; John D. Yelland. Min­
neapolis, 
From Dick Donoghne: August L. "Gus" Bondi visited New York re­cently in his official capacity as a district man­ager of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company of Indianapolis, Ind. ITiat company held its an­nual convention at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel,, and Gus held forth there for one week. Yomr sec­retary had the pleasure of having lunch with Gus, and talking over "old times," and it was al that time, that Frank Herron, ex. '30, reported that he is now living in Webster. Mass. Frank is also a district manager of this company, as well as the father of three very fine children. Frank wanted to be remembered to the members of the class, and I told him that his well-wishes were entrusted to willing hands. We had the pleasure of re­counting many activities of old Sophomore Hall, in which Shay, Mallins, O'Connor, Francis et al. participated to the particular glee of Father Mal­caire. Yours truly was the prefect on the second floor of Sophomore Hall, and even he picked up some news! 
Harold E. Duke, of the Wayne Pump Company, pbila., Penna.. responds to our request for news, as follows: 
"Your card asking for a little news was wel­come and appreciated. Dick, but it sort of put me on the spot from the viewpoint of the time ele­ment Anyway, here goes the little that I know: I am, and have been for the past five years, con­nected with the Wayne Pump Co.: the last two years have found me working out of Philadelphia for that company. I am married and have a son nine years old who claims he has applied to enter 
N. D. already. There are not too many of the class in Philadelphia. However, I see Harry Francis once in a while at meetings of the Phil­adelphia Club. Harry is doing a flourishing busi­ness at Paoli, Pa. selling Dodge and Plymouth motor cars, under the name of Francis Motors. Pat Conway was here coaching at West Catholic High School, hut transferred back to Cumberland, Md.. where I understand that he is doine a very fine job. I saw Pat for a few minutes at the Navy game in Baltimore last fall, and up to that time his team was undefeated. By the way, I succeeded Pat as treasurer of the FhiladelpUa Club. I hear from my old roommate, Larry Ftta­simmons, occasionally, and have made arrange­ments with him to attend the Army game in New York next fall. Larry has gone me one better: he has a damWer and a son. I bannpad into 1M B BUtt* at the Amv same In. New Talk hat fd : he looked line and beamed with antidpaUoK. iM h of na was in a nih. ab we fid not spend too modi time together. What was it. Wkt, n tor or a girl? Pye been boUas for Al SHpacaaa rinee last Jnne^ because he told me Ocn that he wonM be in Philadelphia dorins the year. Ss fir. 1 have not heard from him. Iiowever. This ia about all I can think of for now. hot I pivmim to write soon and often.** 
Thanks for tlie news. Harold, and we awaid yon the air<ao1ed I<one Banger batten ftar hiins­ing in news about the Dodge and Plymouth deal­er. Ran r Fianebb whom we have had no news on for years. And wlien it comes to the aqnaie root of four; Unoicseent U^tts or homxeufaed yeast, we of the Engineerins CoIIeee can sit hmA and enjoy a few words Cram ChaiBa Fowen^ SIS Bibb Bldg.. Kaeon. Ga.. who writes as follows: 
"This letter is considerably overdne, hot dK­enmstances beyond my control have made It ML I had the misfortune of contraetinir a ease of typhus fever.' and was confined for .aoine time. All of the time I am reminded of the neameas of the can to the colors, because I hold a conmlaAa in the Engineer Corps Reserve. Howerer. I hsnre not as yet been called, so I am aittinc ha d In • relaxed mood asabu 
"Down here Notre Dame men are few.and £ v between, and I rarely ever see one. I am loeaisd in Xacon. a dty of CO.OOO people, phis 10,illM soldiers at Camp Wheeler. Ttj job is that of en­gineer for the South-Eastern Underwriters ASM^ elation. This asaodation consists of the leading, fire insurance companies operating in tiie sooOt­eastem states. The work is plentiful and at times diOieuIt. but I manage to fare well, and enjoy It very much. 
"I am single, and it looks as if Unde Sam is going to "marry* me to the Engdneer dams one of these days, so if the cat jumps tiiat way and they give me my way about anything, ray leuwsl win be to become the top sergeant in ynar eon­pany. and untH then, best wishes to yon.** 
I appredate your letter very mudi. ChaiSe; and wish yon good health in the futoie. (See. ~ note: Brother, wouldn't I like to be your cnporal just for a day!! ^lere would be some can-ndlinff in the company street, what I mean CharBelt All this and Heaven too!) The compensatins &etar in bdng class secretary is the getting of inteteet­ing news and humor at these cross-roads, asid in^ case you doubt my word, here ia a letter from Dan Cannon of Fnllerton and Company. 8 East Broad Street. Cohunbus. Ohio: 
"I received your postal card this morning, and . I win do ray best to inform yon of the hanien­ings of the 1930 class in this vidnitr. and abo our Notre Dame Alumni Club of Central Ohio, The following' information pertains to,tiie Clam of 1930: I received a letter from Benia Gianf. located in New Kensington, Pa. Bemie Is wWi the federal government, and cverates in that vl­dnity. He is married, and is the father of a three year old hoy. Bemie and the boy do a lot of tumbling around on the floor each evening; and he assures me that his son wOl be a tackle or a fullback in days to come. 1 also had a note £raai Tern Cnnainiham. and he informed me th ^ ha had an Invitation' from FJ>Jt. to jdn the iarmy. Tora was initiated at Fort Meade. Baltinore. Kd. and is now stationed at New Cnraberland. Md. 
"My good friend. Jim Dadson. the great golfer, is assodated as sales manager of Dusqnene Brew­ing Co. I sincerely hope that he wiU make enonA sales this year, so that he can become a member of the Marriage Club, at yiiaA time tha Central ' Ohio Cloh win have two crisp $10.00 hUb and a loaf of Wonder Bread for him. 
«T was-in Clevdand last wedc and had-finaer at Chaile Bahi^ restanrant. keated adiMnt to AM Cammatm Bldg. there. It was a RMay aUhl; ' and as a leanlt. I recommend his food aad atnt e ' 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
very highly. Bill Dorc, who is in charge of the investment offices of Stranahan. Harris Invest­ment Underwriters, of Columbus, shows up often at our meetings, and I see a lot of him. His friends might be interested to know that, he Joined the Marriage Club over a year ago, at which time we gave him two crisp 55.00 bills and a loaf of German Rye. ' 

"I am sure that the class will be very inter­ested to know that our good friend Howard (Hooley) Smith has been a member of the Mar­riage Club over a year and one-half, and has become the proud father of Howard (Hooley), the Second. He assures me that the boy shows every indication of being a six-footer. Howard is doing a grand job at Mt. Saint Michaels. Fordham, New York. It any of his friends wish fo write to him, they can reach him at 65 Harmon Road. Pelham, N. Y. Tom Conlcy, head coach and di­rector of athletics of John Carroll, of Cleveland is doing a swell job there in these capacities, and can he reached there. Frank Walker is an at­torney for the F.B.L, and he is doing a bang-np job. I do hope that he will join tlie Marriage Club before long, because we are saving a special loaf of Irish "Wonder Bread for him [Sec. Note: Dannie, m* boy, will ye put one away for me, too?l Jade Walker, his brother, is an engineer and is with the federal government; he is happily married, and in fact can be considered one of the first members of the Marriage Club. Bill Brcsna­ham is associated with the largest utilities* law firm in this part of Ohio, and you can reach him at Henderson, Burr, Randall and Porter of 33 North High St., Columbus. Bill is climbing the ladder of success fast, and doing a good job on the way up. He would like to hear from the old gang, so Tirge his old friends to drop a line to him here." 
"Bad Wilhelmcy is traffic manager of the CCC Transportation Co. for this district, and is the father of two beautiful children. Chet Rice is in the roofing business, in charge of wholesale ac­counts, where he is doing a great job. Art Dcnch­field visited him some weeks ago, en route to South America, and Chet enjoyed this surprise visit. I ran into Bull Polisky, *2S, one of Rock's favorite tackles, and he told me that he will be in private law practice soon in Bellaire, Ohio. The class will be interested in this bit of news: Brother Jack was married on Dec 29: he has a beautiful wife but had to go all the w-ay to Port^ land. Ore. to get her. They are indeed very hap­pily married, and are doing their damdest to raise a Chow. The gang have great fun when they visit them. Jack is doing a wonderful job in the Department of Recreation here in Columbus, and he would like to hear from his old pals. Joe Ryan, of the Jos. E. Ryan Undertaking Co., is treasurer of our alumni club. Judge McBride is an attorney, and active member of the cluh too. Dick, there might be a few members whom I have left out, but I assure you that it is only due to a lack of time that it happens. I might mention that I w^ould like to hear from my old friends, and 1 would appreciate your telling them to write to me, cfo Fullerton & Co. here in Columbus." 
And so it goes, mates, that another enjoyable session with our contributors comes to an end, as we thank Dan Cannon for his timely comments and humorous statements. 
Timothy A- Toomey of New York City and Margaret Caroline Farrell were married on June 21 in St. Peter's Catholic Church, Columbia, S.C, A reception was held at the Hotel Wade Hamp­ton followang the ceremony. ITie class extends its very best wishes to T^m and Margaret on the happy occasion. Tim is the secretary of the New York club, and is affiliated with the Royal In­demnity Co. 
Your secretary comes up with a final and ex­cellent letter. While none of us know who will be mustered in next, all are anxious to get an insight into the life of the inductees. That's why the following letter from Tom Canningharo comes at an opportune time. But let's let him tell about it: 
"I just received your note via Bcmie Conroy requesting some news for the June Issue of the 'Alumnus.' At present, I am in the Army, and I am stationed at New Cumberland, Md. This is a reception center, or station to which men are sent after they are inducted. We process them [Sec Note: Sounds like the radiator sale hold by the inmates of Sorin Sub for the benefit of incoming freshmen] to determine the manner in which they will best serve the Army. I interview them concerning their civilian occupations, hob­bies, talents, etc and then recommend them for some job in the Army. It is quite interesting. 
"One of the lieutenants here is First Lt. Joseph Sweeney, who is a brother of Chuck Sweeney, the footballer. He is a \'ery fine chap, and even though he went to Fordham and JI. T. T.. he is practically an alumnus of N. D. The only N. D. chap to pass through these portals so far is Larry O'DonnclI of the class of '38, T believe. He is now stationed at Edgewood Arsenal. He is a very fine fellow, and we were all sorry to sec him leave here. He is a. brother of Dick O'DonnclI of our class. 
"I went down to Washington for a visit on Palm Sunday, and saw some N. D. lads while there. I went out to visit Sam 'Bo' Richards, and met his candidate for the ball club of '60. He is quite a lad. I also went out to visit the Frank Walkers and I saw both Frank and Jack. They hold U. S. government positions there, and each looks about the same as ever. Jack has a very 
•fine exemption who has red hair, and probably will be a fullback in the future. He looks just like Jack. 
"Before I entered the Army, Jack Cannon stopped in Pittsburgh returning from his honey­moon- He married a very fine girl, and I think that you can record another happy married life in the annals of the '30 group. I went on to Co­lumbus with Jack, and stayed at Dan's house. Bill Bresnahan and Judge McBride were over, I also saw Joe Ryan while there. 
"There is not much more to report now, but I will send you any '30 news that I run across. All Pennsylvania draftees must come through this center, so I will know of any N. D. men who are inducted, and will let you know about them." 
One can reach Tom by addressing a letter to: Pvt Thos. P. Cunningham, Hq. Co., 1301st Ser­vice Unit, New Cumberland, Pa. Thanks a lot. Tom for the newsie letter, and be sure to keep the resolution to send along the news. 
Before your Secretary "takes a powder" for the summer respite, permit him to thank all those who sent news during the past academic year, thereby enlivening this column much more than it would have been otherwise. We'll be seein* you next fall, and in the meantime, put some news into the mail pouch for the initial issue then. 
Brother Marcian, C.S.G., is the prindpal of Cathedral Ifigh School, Indianapolis, Ind. On his staff are the following Holy Cross members who received degrees in the summer of 1930: Brother Stephen, assistant principal. Brother Fidelis and Brother Hilary. Brother BlajcUa who also gradu­ated in 1930 is teaching at the Brothers of Holy Cross Postulate, Watertown, Wis. Brother Ra­phael is doing graduate work in botany at Notre Dame and Brother Rupert is the director of the Gibault Home for Boys, Terre Haute, Ind. 
Walter Langford and Jim Kearney, '31, mem­bers of the faculty of Notre Dame, are spending the summer at the University of Wyoming in I^ramie, Wyo. They are attending an institute for intensive study in Spanish and Portuguese which is sponsored by the American Council of Learned societies and the Rockefeller foundation. 
m A^ V John Bcrgan, SZ8 E. Colfax Avenne, ' ' ^ • South Bend, Indiana. 
C0M5IENCEMENT REGISTRANTS 

Robert P. Alge. Findlay. Ohio: Robert I-. Baer, 
LaGrange, HI.: Roy C. Bailie, Boston; Richard R, 
Baker, Naaareth, Mich.; Lawrence H. Baldinger. 
Notre Dame; Richard Barber, Rye, N. Y.; Robert 
J. Baskerville, JoHet, HI.; Howard C. Beasley,
Chicago; Francis Beaupre, Grosse Pointe Farms, 
Mich.; Russel J- Beaupre, Cincinnati; Harold L. 
Bennett. Mishawaka, Ind.; John E. Bcrgan, South 
Bend; Arthur C. Bergen. New York City: James 
A. Biggins, Sharpsvillc. Pa.; John H, Blackwell, 
Indianapolis; Nicholas J. Bohlinff. Chicago; James 
A. Bosco, Lawrenceburg, Ind.; Joseph F. Boyland, 
Grand Rapids; Austin Boyle, New Orleans; Ed­
ward E. Brennan, Grand Rapids; Clarence H. 
Brink, Cincinnati; John C. Bums, Brooklyn; 
Walter E. Cahill. Chicago; Thomas A. Cannon, 
Muncie, Ind.; Frank Chambers, LaGrange, 111.; 
Daniel A. Clark, Scmth Bend; Ra>Tnond Collins, 
Chicago: Thomas Conlcy. Cleveland; Leo H. Cook, 
Huntington, W. Va.; George Costello, Chicago; Tom E. Coughlan, Chicago; Eugene C. Coyle, Chi­
cago; Edward F. Cunningham, Chester, N. Y.; 
Charles B. Cushwa, Youngstown, Ohio; Rev. 
Aloysius Dayberry, C.S.C, Notre Dame; Walter 
DeBacne. Rochester, Mich.; Joseph Deeb. Grand 
Rapids. Mich.; Harry J. Dcegan, Hartford, Conn.; 
John E. Dempsey, Oshkosh, Wis.; Gerald J. Des­
mond, Chicago; Clarence J. Donovan. Bedford, 
Ind.: John G, Dorschel, Rochester, N. Y.; Martin 
J. Dowling, Rochester. N. Y.; Frank J. Downs, 
Jr., Chicago: James "r. Doyle, Chicago; Clarence 
A. Durbin, Detroit; Daniel J. Egan, Chicago; 
John Emmert. Wheeling, W. Va.; Frank Fcdder, 
Michigan City, Ind.; Paul Fehlig, St. Louis; John 
Fetzer, Chicago; Arthur J. Flynn. Brooklyn; Dr. 
William J. Gadek. Perth Amboy, N. J.; Dr. Fran­
cis J. Gannon, Cleveland; Matthew P. Garrigan, 
Detroit; Josepb Gavin, Cleveland; William J. 
Gibbons, Chicago; Robert H. Gore. Chicago; Paul 
F. Grant, Mattoon, HI.; James J. Grifiin, Chicago; 
Alfred C. Grisanti, Oeveland: Seymour R. Gross, 
Chicago; Wilfred B. HaVmg, Indianapolis; Joseph 
Har^'cy, Harvey, III.; Francis .1. Henneberger, 
Princeton, Ind.; M- C. Hershfield, Goshen, Ind.; John B, Hickey, Munhall, Pa.; James R. Hilger, 
Columbus, Ind.: Frank J. Holland, Chicago; Ed­
ward J. Hosinski, South Bend; Dr. Joseph 
Hughes, Columbus, Ohio; George A. Jackoboice, 
Grand Rapids, Mich.; John P. Jones, Gallitzin, 
Pa.; James J. Kearney, Notre Dame; William 
Kerrigan, Chicago; Leo J, Kletzly, Wheeling, W, 
Va.: Vernon J. Knox, Crystal Lake, HI.; Philip 
L. .Konop, Alexandria, Va.; Henry Kopek, De­
troit ; Lawrence Krai, Euclid, Ohio; Richard N. 
Lacy, New Rochelle, N. Y.; John F. Laux, Flint. 
.Mich.; M. K. Leahy, Detroit; William Leahy. Chi­
cago ; Daniel C. Lencioni. Kenosha, Wis.; Frank 
Loney, Cincinnati; John F. Lynch, Chicago: Don 
F. MacDonatd. Flint, Mich.; Edward J. Mahon, 
New York City: Frank J. McAdams, Jr.. Chica­
go ; Charles A, McAleer, Altoona. Pa.; WilUam C. 
SIcCarthy, Kansas Qty. Mo.; Bernard G. 5Ic­
Glonc, Chicago; Francis J- McGreal, Chicago; 
John E. Mclntyre, South Bend; T. Arthur Mc-
Manmon, Lowell, Mass.: Harry L. Merdzinsld, 
Great Lakes, HI.; Bert Mctzger, Chicago; Donald 
E. Mihan. Waukegan. BI.: Charles A. Miltner, 
Cadillac. Mich.: Lawrence F. Mol'er. Quincy. HI.; 
Thomas F. Monahan. Areola, BI.: Rev. C. B. 
Motsctt, Kewance. Bl.; Maurice D. Mulrey. Indian­
apolis : Donald F. Murphy, LaCrosse. Wis.; Ed­
ward J. Murray, Notre Dame; Robert L. Neydon, 
Detroit; Francis J. Noll, Jr., Indianapolis; Thomas E. Oakes, Chicago; Henry G. O'Connell, 
Chicago; Bartholomew T. O'Shca. Ilion, N. Y.; 
Donald O'Toolc. Chicago; Max Pascoff, Chicago; 
Robert L. Pendcrgast, Chicago; Herbert J. Perry, 
Columbus. Miss.; Vincent G. Ponic, Chicago; 
William Rcaume. Waukegan. Bl.; James C. Rich, 
Oak Park. Bl.; J.Tmes E. Rich. Grand Rapids, 
Mich.; George A. Richter. New Hartford. N. Y.; 
Robert J. Rick, Brooklyn; John C. Ricdell. Paris, 
III.; James Rudolph, Hustisford, Wis.; Edward 
B. Ryan, Chicago; Gordon Salmon, Trenton, 
N. J.; John F. Saunders, Boston; Anthony R. 
Schreiner. Norwood. Ohio; Joseph R. Schrocder, 
Minneapolis; H- Gilbert Seaman. Elmhurst Bl.; 
Hobart P. Sheen, Worcester, MPSS. ; Robert L. 
Smith, Chicago; Eugene A. Stack, Chicago; Alfred C. Stepan. Chicago; Rev. Francis W. 
Sullivan, C.S.C, South Bend; John C. Sullivan, 
Auburn. N. Y.; John F. Sullivan, Passaic, N. J.; 
Robert J. Sullivan. Chicago; Deon B. Sntton. De­
troit; William J. Taylor, Chicago; Michael V. 
Teders, Kendallville. Ind.; Bernard E. Thomnson. 
Chicago: David Tolchlnsky. Whiting. Ind.; Fran­
cis E. Vallee. Chicago; Richard S. Walsh. Sche­
nectady. N. Y.; Joseph Wetli.Toledo; Martin F. 
Wider. Romulus, Mich.; Jerome ttX, Wiggins, 
Portsmouth. Ohio; Charles J. Wittman. Erie, Pa.; 
John R. Zuber, Saginaw, Mich. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1931 REUNION 
Ryan, the Chicago Weld company vice-president, was toastmaster and introduced the class ofHcers Jack Saonden, BUI Leahy and Roy B^lie and strangely enough th^* all made short speeches. HighilKhting the spealdng program were, Frank Leaky, Notre Dame athletic director. Mayor Clar­ence Donovan. Bedford, and Frank McGreal, GU­cago district attorney who gave a fine toast to the Class of 1931, The University was represented by Bin Dooley, assistant secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni association. Following the program movies of the Sugar Bowl classic were shown and de­scribed by Frank Leahy. Al Stepan, the Chicago chemist, was awarded the class accomplishment trophy and he made a fine address of ^ceptanoe. The distance prize was closely contested for by Hobie Shean of Worcester, Mass.. Austin Boyle. New Orleans, newspaperman and Herb Perry, Coltunbus. Miss., box manufacturer. Boyle won by a couple of miles but the committee still feels that the other men should be rewarded this summer. 
llie Softball team under the guidance of Bed 0*Conncn. Chicago salesman, succeeded in defeat­ing the class of 1936 in a closely contested game. 8-7. The 1931 battery consisted of Joe Savtrfdi and "Spike" McAdams and featured some stellar field­ing by Cbaiiie Coahwa, the Youngstown steel man, Dan Evan. Chicago engineer, Jim Bosco, Bunte candy salesman, and John SoBiTau, Passaic at­torney. All in all it was a great game and Man­ager O'Connell's strategy worked from his place behind the plate when Bert Metzger, Bowman's Dairy North, ^de division manager, soired the winning run. The class was well represented at the alumni dinner. 
The memorial Mass Sunday morning in Mor­
rissey hall which was celebrated by the Rer. 
Boarkc Motsett, of Kewanee. HI., for the departed 
members of the class closed the reunion proper 
and the boys began to depart for their homes. 
The class made a fine contribution for our mis­
sionary fund and we hope to issue a full report . of its expenditure in the September issue. 
Writing this bit of information recalls a 150 mighty interesting features of the week-end but most of you vdll get the idea if we ^mply state that it was a great reunion and 190 great fellows made it so. 
Perhaps in passing it might be well to mention that Jack Lanx, the Flint accountant, was in­ducted into the Army on June 5 and may be reached at Camp Custer, Battle Creek. Mich. He is anxious to hear from classmates. Bob Neydon was married in Detroit on June 14. Bill Leahy and Ben Oakes attended the wedding. Wheeling, 
W. Va., was represented 100 per cent at the re­union when IJCO Kletzly. trucking company man­ager, and John Emmert, factory personnel man­ager, were present. The New Yorkers, Ed Mahon, Ridiie Barber. Ed Cunningham and Johnny Burns abandoned their bus and came out on the 20th Century. 
Paying. their first visit to the campus in ten years were Ed Flynn, Richmond Hill, N. Y., Bob Rick, Brooklyn, Bart 0*Shea, Illion. N, Y.. Harry Decgan, Hartford, Conn., John Sullivan, Passaic. 
N. J.. Dick Walsh, Schenectady. N. Y., and John Emmert, Wheeling. W. Va.. Bob Aige. Findlay, Ohio, and .Jack Riedell, Paris, HI., held a two-man architectural reunion. Both are doing well. Bob is married and father of a fine daughter while Jack is still single. 
We wish to add the name of Stephen Roth of Flint, Mich., to our growing list of celebrated at­torneys. Steve is prosecuting attorney of Genessee county, Michigan. John Crimmins had a busy week-end introducing his wife around. John & FHA attorney for the south side of Chicago. John Dorsdtel. the Rochester financier, made a hurried visit to the reunion with his charming wife but business called them to Detroit on Saturday. The 
The 1931 rcunioners gather joyfully 1) in the spacious lobby of Morrissey HaU, the ten-year head­quarters for the week-end: 2) just outside Morrissey: 3) at the class banquet in the Indiana Club, South Bend, on Friday night. Head table sitters at the banquet are. in the upper picture, left to right. John John Bergan- Eddie Ryan. Jack Saunders and Father Bourkc Motsett. In the lower picture are Jim Doyle, Frank Leahy, Bill Leahy, Oonle Donovan, Bill Doqley, '26. assistant alumni secretary, and Frank McGreaL 
With the ten-year reunion now history, it might be well to recant a few of the happenings of that famed week-end for the benefit of those members of the class that were unable to be present. From Tliursday evening in Morrissey hall with its round table discussion of 40 members of the class nntil the class Mass on Sunday morning the time spent . on the campus was most enjoyable with some 190 present. General Chairman Jim Doyle did a fine job of peppins the boys up for the meeting and also made the campus mindful by his signs that 
ole' '31 was truly represented. 
The informal gathering on Thursday evening was highlighted by the stories of Frank McAdams and Frank McGreal. assistant district attorneys of Chicago. They also were joined in the discussions by Jack Saunders, Boston exporter, Joe Gavin, Cleveland high school athletic director. Matt Garri­gan, Detroit insurance man, and Frank Holland, Chicago coal company executive. Tiien, of course, each new^ comer was asked to say a word. It was a great evening for stories and true experiences. 
Friday morning the golf tournament began and if there were a prize for the first arrival on the course. Art McManmon. the Boston adman, would have won It for they say his golf round began at 
5:30 a,m. Other early enthusiasts were. Ilobart Shcan, the Worcester, Mass., furniture man; Ben Oakes. Transcontinental and Western's able sales­man ; Bob Neydon. Detroit Chrysler accountant; Clarence Brink, Cincinnati aluminum comi)any official: Fran Bcauprc. Plymouth auto sales pro­motion man of Grosse Point; Kuss Bcauprc, sport­ing goods salesman of Cincinnati; Larry MoUer, Quincy, lU., lumberman and bachelor. Larry won the class championship and trophy, as well as the alumni tournament, with a sizzling 66 and was followed closely by Fran Beaupre and Russ Beaupre with a 70 and 71 respectively. Congratu­lations. Larry and we hope that the Edward B. Ryan trophy has reached you by this time. 
The time during the remainder of the day was spent informally and noted among the reception committee were: Vlnce Ponic, Chicago barrister; Joe Dccb, Michigan federal district attorney; Tom Monchan. Areola broom corn brokerage executive; Larry Krai, Cleveland office supply sales mana­ger; Jack Dempsey. Oshkosh. Wis., attorney; Dr. Jim Hughes, Columbus leading physician; Attor-John Paul Hickcy of Pittsburgh: John Paul Jones. Gallitzan, Pa., barrister, and Bill Leahy, the Chi­cago Victor business machine office manager. It might be noted at this time that work on some very vital statistics began under the leadership of AI Gristanli, the Cleveland restaurant proprie­tor (S. Clair and Eighth Sts.) who is making a graphic record of the bachelors in the class, and Bob P cndcrgast, the Chicago lawyer, who is gathering material on those whose locks have changed to silver. Their finding will be published in an early issue* Another highlight of the after­noon was the arrival of Paul Grant, the Mattoon utilities expert. 
The class dinner Friday evening was certainly the climax of the week-end when 160 joined at the Indiana club for a fine dinner and program. Eddie 
years seem to have been kind to John as he looks about the same as he did in the old Walsh hall days. Bill GiMons is now ^-ith the Chicaeo Bridge and Iron company and often sees the Carnegie-Illinois Steel company metallurgist. Bill Taylor, who has a family of a boy and ^rl. Congratui&> tions to BIr. and Mrs. Paul Enripht who -were married in Oakland. Calif., last month. Mrs. £n­risfat is the former Hary Cushingr, sister of Pan! Cwliinr. Charlie Powers was unable to attend the reunion because of a siege of typhus fever but he is well on the road to recovery. Illness in the family also prevented Dan Halpin, the RCA merchan^ser, from being on hand. Tom Adw who also planned on attending was held up by business at the last minute. Jack Shively is now a lieutenant in the air corps and is stationed at Kelly Field, San Antonio. Joe 0*Ronrke, our other reserve officer, will not leave for camp until the latter part of this month. Harry Merrinski, ensign U.S.N., certainly looked as though the Great Lakes were agreeing -with him. 
Didc Baker, valedictorian of our class, re­ceived his Doctor of Philosophy degree at the June Commencement of the University. Congratu­lations ! Professor Jim Kearney -with Professor Walt Lanrford, '30, was one of the 30 college professors selected by the Rockefeller Foundation for a special course at the University of Wyo­ming. Laramie, this summer. Jim is studying Spanish. Walt, Portuguese. Roy Bailie lost none of his old hurding cunning w*hen he stepped off the high hurdles in I4.G in a special reunion exhibi­tion. Ceorsre Costello, Jack Lj-nch, Gsne Coylc, Bill Cliaw£o and Bart O'Shea are all employed by the Internal Revenue department. The first four in Chicago and the latter in Ulion, N. Y. Art Bercen and his -wife made the reunion a home­coming affair as Mrs, Bergen is a native of South Bend. Art's slogan is, "There is no better car than Nash." Prosecutor Tom Cannon of Muncie also left his wife in South Bend with relatives while he renewed old friendships. Noted at the banquet only were. Horris Leahy, Max Pascoff, Leon Beyniers and Seymour Gross. Father Charles Dnpnis, CS.C., rector of Morrissey hall, is recov­in? from a serious illness which necessitated his absence from the reunion. 
Sympathy of the class is extended to Ralph Dalton of Bloomington, III., and Mart Dowling of Rochester on the deaths of their fathers last month. 
Fiarting shot: Where are Privates Doyle and Jake HoBCow now? Best wishes for a happy sum­mer and you may have to stand this news prattle for a while yet as your correspondent has been drafted by Uncle Sam and the class of 1931. 
(Ed's note: No class reunion was ever quite so well organized as the ten-year reunion of the class of 1931, and the organizing paid off in a superb -week-end, marked particularly by a remarkably large attendance. The thanks of the Alumni Asso­ciation go to Secretary Bergan for his consistent build-up over a period of years and to Chairman Jim Doyle and his whirlwind committee for an outstanding accomplishment.) 
Walter F. Philipp, w-as given a commission as lieutenant jrmior grade, in the U. S. Naval Re* serve. XJent. Phillip has been advised that he will be stationed as paymaster in the supply de­partment at the Philadelphia Navy Yard. 
Dan Halpin, New York City, is now in charge of theatre television development for the RCA Uanufacturing Company. 
 T. Igoe, 32S Soatli Jeffen 

1932 JaMM 
Chieag*. lUinols. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS 
Rev. George J. Baxter. C.S.a, Notre Dame; Richard E. Fabrycki, South Bend; Noble F. Har­baugh. South Bend; V. C. Barter, South Bend; 
George F. Hennion, Notre Dame; John W. Jandi, 
NOes, Hicb.: Walter A. Kiolbasa, Chicago; John 
P. lAusbna, Grosse Pointe Park, Hich.; WHUam 
T. Lyons, New RocheHe. N. Y.; Stanley G. 
Obelenos, Chicago; Charles J. Petretic SooOi 
Bend; Joseph S. Petritz, Notre Dame; Robert 
Rofarbach. Chicago; John Staunton. ICurwood, 

•HL; John R. Voss, Harvey, Bl.; Charies F. 
Weiss. South Bend. 

From Jim Iroe: Ed Mddiione is now a chief petty oflTicer in the Naval Intelligence. His job consists of proselyting likely looking naval recruits. It is reliably under­stood that the army is crying "tmfair competi­tion," as Eddie has stolen several future genermls from them. 
Sal Bontcrapo was a recent victor in Chicago. He was attending the National Purchasing Agents* Convention here. Se called—gave no information —and broke a date for lunch—all in one day. Heel! 
Didc Oeleridi will be a papa for the fourth time any day now. 
£d Bhatigan has been transferred back to New York from Albany. He and Jim Ward will un­doubtedly have a tremendous bull session -when they get together again. . 
Private Bay A. Geiger is stationed in Ft. Jack­son, S. C, with the 102nd Cavalry. 
1933 Edmund Ibrlarty, M27 Feiadm UmmL Ann Arbor, Mlrhlnn. 
COMBIENCEHENT REGISTRANTS Paul Boebm, South Bend; Paul J. Boyle, Gary. 

Ind.; J. Vincent Burke. Pittsburgh; Daniel J. 
Casey. Chicago; Ben J. Cashman, Chicago; 
Brother Columba. aS.C., Notre Dame; Charles 
A. Conley. Connersville. Ind.; B. M, DeLay, Nor­
folk, Neb.; Maurice J. DeWald. Fort Wayne; 
Joseph Dockendorff. Skokie. Bl.; J. D. Fitzpatrick. 
South Bend; Irving Gamitz, South Bend; Charles 
Hafron. South Bend; William M. Hawkes, Wash­
ington. D. C.; Clarence J. Hess. Lansing. Mich.; 
Rev. J. A. Kehoe. aS.C., Notre Dame; Michael 
Koken. South Bend; Rev. James J. Leahy, C.S.C., 
Notre Dame; Maurice W. Lee, Chicago; John J. 
Ncubauer. Paterson, N. J.; Russell J. O'Shea, 
Cairo, HI.; Dr. David Powers, New York City; 
Edward Troy, East Chicago, Ind. 
. ^ Q^A H. Robert Cahill, Athletic Association. • • ^ • Notre Dame, Indiana. 
COM&IENCEMENT REGISTRANTS £Ii Abraham, Notre Dame; Robert M. Cahill. 

Notre Dame; Edward Carey. Cleveland; Robert 
Cbcnal, Cincinnati; William E. Doyle, Fort Custer, 
Mich.; James C. Fesler. Barberton. Ohio; Thosnas 
n. Grimes. Sguth Bend; Robert K. Kelley; South 
Bend; William J. Kennedy. Charleston, W. Va.; 
Lt. John W. Lacey, Middletown. Pa.; Vincent 
McAloon, St. Louis; Melvin G. Meyers. Minne­
apolis. 
From Bob Cahill There's a bit of news extant this month.boys. so I'll dig It to yon quick. . . . We'll start off with an excerpt from the alumni questionnaire sent to the Alumni OfHce by Eddie O'Brien of Pitta-burgh, renuirks which said: "I see by Harry Bodc­ett^s letter in the latest issue that Ourley Sdiwartzel has joined duPont at Penns Grove, N. J., which is something of a coincidence since I joined their {inisher division at almost precisely the same time Charley did. I -would appreciate hearing from the New Albany flash to talk shop since when I last saw him here in Pittsburgh he was selling baskets and I was trying to sell se­curities and we hadn't much in conunon. Have heard from a few of the boys as follows: BiB Motsett has just become the father of a baby boy to match little Mary Evelyn. JcAn O'Connor* m , is married and living in Warren, Ohio, where he* is working for Copperweld Steel. Bill 0*TooIe is a newshawk for the "Bulletin-Index," a local weekly news magazine. Hngfa Murphy is -with the Philadelphia Co. and his friend. Bill Rockenston, of Butler, Pa., is a practising attorney in that city. Here's hoping I see Jim Keams again this 
summer if he comes to town with the Cubs.** 
(Note: If he goes to town, Ed, it won't be with 
those Oibs. Tbey don't know how.) 
The nbiqnitions Mr. Walter Kennedy was on the campus May 6, effervescent and enthusiastic no end. When queried as to reason for ecstatic con­dition (be was dying to be asked) he burst out ^t h news that he is to become a fathdt this fall. He also reported that he had made a recent trip to New Orleans on business and had had a nice vidt with Hardd "Minnie" Sporl while there. Says Min is still the quiet, reticent charivari we all knew on the campus! 
Another letter from Ed Mansfield mentions that be is co-diairman of the Denver Club's football ttpetial to one of the games here or in Evanston. Ed does a hangup job for the Club out there. 
Inddentally, the bojrs of '34 surely stayed away in droves from Commencement this year. Don't think I saw more than three or four, but one I was truly glad and proud to see was Bill Doyle, 
— Private Bill Doyle to you, sub — newly of Qunp Custer, Mich. Stumbled into Bill (figura­tive speech, gentlemen, figurative speech) in Mor­rissey Hall on Saturday evening. Also had a nice visit with Lt. Jack Lacey, of the U. S. Army Air Corps, Middletown. Pa., who is busy piloting those "flying verandas" full of Army frieght. Jack didn't wear his uniform, dam it. 
Ibddentally attended the Class of '31's ten-year reunion dinner, and it was the finest thing I've ever seen along those lines. When I think of our five-yeax get-together and compare it to the dig­nity of this '31 affair, I shudder. However. I sup­pose maturity does leaven one, and perhaps in 1944 we can have something like that. But I did think that this '31 affair was tops. 
Here's a rather interesting letter, received the middle of May, which I'll quote in toto: "Dear Bab Cahill: After spending a grand afternoon with Ckick and Ginny Harra, '34, who are about to become a mamma and a papa, I finally got a look at a Notre Dame Alumni Book, April, 1941, to be exact, and I saw Bill Powell's and Jim For-tcs^s names under your column. Now being the wife of Bill Fbwell, I think I could tell you a few things about him. He has been with the Fed­eral Bureau of Investigation ^nce November, 1939. Since then he (and I hanging on) have been all over the country •— Los Angeles, San Antonio, Ridimond, and now Washington. D. C. By the way, do they have a nice home for Notre Dame widows? I could surely apply about now. [Apply to Mrs. Cahill, particulary at commencement time or during football season.] Well, to get back to ' San Antonio, on Oct. 1. 1940, a wee fellow. Bill HI, decided to say hello to his poppy and mommy. Now at seven months, he weights 20 pounds, and if he ke^s on going in about two years we'll send him out to F. Leahy. Please tell Red Forrest we'll write to him soon. I sure -wish we could all get together for a [note: one word deleted here} and soda. If Bill were only here, I know he'd say hello. Sincerely, Jane Powell." Tbanks. Mrs. Powell. Tell Bill we are pulling for him to run down this madman Trigger. He's a despicable cad. The new Powell address is 186 Garfield Place. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
o r Heppy Jack Claudcr of Milwaukee seeps through to announce that in addition to his real estate and life insurance tie-ups. he is now Mil­waukee representative for — brace yourselves — the Grand View Health Resort, Waukesha Moor Umd Bath Company, Waukesha, Wis. Well, well, my old rheumy! John adds. "Not much new to relate as far as the '34 news is concerned, "the only definite piece of news is that Rmhe Gmnde­man is now in Madison. Wis., with G.MJLC. Un­dei^tnnd he is manager of the office there. (?ot myself in hock during the past winter and built 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
a new house. We moved in in February and are pretty well settled. Now that the two kids are one and two years old they really have me jnmp. ins:. Will not he down for sradoation but mislit see you later on. Paula and I promised Gcone Shields that we would come to his wedding Jane 7 [the day this is being written — congratulations, George and Nancy] so right now ain trying to find some funds for the trip." 
Bob Kclky writes from 1097 Riverside Drive, South Bend, announcing that he is with the per­sonnel department of Todd & Brown, Inc., a New York concern which is going to operate the Kings, bury Ordnance plant at Kingsbury, Ind., near LaPorte. "We are going to load shells in a 13,000 acre area with over 400 buildings. About six sizes of shells, also hand grenades. In the same depart­ment as I am, sharing my desk for the time be­ing, is John Schteyer who was in the seminary about the same time we were in school. One of the girls in the office is a cousin of Bemie Leahy the football player and of Father Jim Leahy, now at school. I also see Bob "Nig" Canningliam, '31, who is employed here. 
"The only '34ers I saw back for Commencement were Red Carran of Chicago and Pan! Schrenker. of Elwood, Ind. Just before I left my last job, I saw Hariy Hwnhredit who with two other archi­tects has started his own architectural firm in Ft. Wayne: Also Jade Logan who is doing a bit of lawyering there. Saw Norb Sdienkel who is help­ing run a construction firm in Ft Wayne. Ihey told me Ed "Engineer" Fitsraaariee is twice as fat but still selling theater seats from Union City, Ind.. In Huntington, Ind.. saw Paul Hanoski who is helping edit 'Our Sunday Visitor.* He says he'd like to hear from Chuck Litty. Also saw Leo Cfowe and his pretty wife one morning during Lent. Leo is coaching basketball and teaching at Huntington Catholic High, and was beaten only in the state finals by Catholic Central of Ft. Wayne, coached by John LevicU, '37. Had a good time at the reunion, but wish there wexe more of our class back. You should stop in some time and see Bob H, seven months, 20 pounds, two teeth. Quite proud of him." There you are, boys. An in­vitation to the Class of '34 to stop in at Kelley*:. Free food, free rooms. So your secretary will see 
•you at Kelleys*. 
Adios until next fall, but don't expect any column then because I'll be too busy trying to stretch that 50-yard line. Also please note Foot­ball ^cket Information for Alumni elsewhere in this issue. 
A Requiem Mass was celebrated on June 7 

. at St. Patrick's Oinrch, Long Island City, by Moat Rev. John F. CHara, CS.C., auxiliary bishop of the Armed Forces of the XTnited States, for Ensign John P. Ffiehdi. Tr.S.N., who met his death in an airplane crash in Hawaii on April 29. John's parents, his two sisters and brother, rep­resentatives of the Notre Dame Club of New York, former classmates and friends, attended. 
At the conclusion of the Mass, Bidiop CHara spoke briefly, pointing out that John had lived the life of a true Notre Dame man, being loyal to both God and country, and that he had learned well one of the hardest lessons to learn in life, which is, "Thy will, not mine, be done." The Bishop was intimately aCQuainted with John and several times during the past year had visited with the young aviator at training stations which the Bishop visited in connection with his' official duties, 
Jaacs Colvin, who now heads the rewrite desk of the "Chicago Dally News," recently was awarded one of the 16 Nieman Fellowships dis­tributed annually among newspapermen of the United States for a year's study In any chosen field at Harvard Unlverrity. 
Bs>eit !>. CUik Is the managing editor of a country weekly newspaper. ¥tom qaesUoniiain: 

"Hy father and I have been pablisUnc AM 'Mulberry Reporter' (Mulberry, Ind.) since, the death of ray grandfather in 1937, who foonded the newspaper in 1890. Last June^ we issued oar Golden Jubilee edition. 
I M E Franklin C Hedueiter. Mt Tsudils 
• '* ' Ave., St Loois, Hiawui. 
COMMENCEMENT KEGISTKANTS Joseph G. Beck, Indianapolis; William P. Ber­

nard, Barberton, Ohio; Thcoas Campbell, Crand 
Rapids, Hich.; Thomas J. Foley, Jr., Memphis, 
Tenn.; Martin A. Kendele. Chicago; Rev. Tlionaa 
E. Hewitt C.S.C., Notre Dame; Maurice G. Kane, 
South Bend: Edward J. Kihnurry, Racine, Wis.; 
Anthony Kuharich. South Bend; Alfred Loritsdi, 
Jr., Washington, D. C : Andrew R. Maffd, Yon­
kers, N. Y.: William B. Moss, New York City; 
Ray W. Oakes, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Jdm F. Wal­
ter, Chicago. 
|09 « John Horan, «I E. Ktk St, Apt 2, 
• '99 New York City. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Thomas E. Adamson, Geneva, m.; Joseph C. 

Barber, Erie, Pa.; Neil C. Bamett Saginaw, 
Mich.; Arthur A. Baum, Wilmington, Dd.; Bert 
Baur, Detroit; Martin K Bayer, Rochester, N. Y.; 
Joseph Beckman. Park Ridge, BL; Cumi A. 
Belmont, South Bend; George A. Binder, Gary, 
Ind.: Glenn A. Blake, Canton, Ohio; Dr. Joha C. 
Brady, Newburgh. N. Y.; T. V. Brennan, Evans­
ville, Ind.; Charles R. Campbell, Tittsbnrgh; 
George W. Cannon, Jr., North Muskegon, Hich.; 
Fred Carideo, Detroit; Robert W. Cavaaaniji, 
Washington, D. C.; August J. Church, N. Plain­
field. N. J.; Norman B. Conley, Canton, Ohio; 
Arthur D. Cronin, Detroit; M. Prial Curran, 
Chicago: Vincent Curran, Hollywood, Fla.; Ed­
ward H. Daley, Chicago; William J. Darey, 
Cleveland: Charles W. Dohnalek, South Bend: 
Paul J. Doyle, Jackson Heights, L. I., N. Y.; 
Edward R. Dunn, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Francis 
A. Dunn, Joliet 01.: Brother Edmund. C.S.C., 
Notre Dame; Robert F. Ervin, Notre Dame; Dr. 
Frederick R. Gabrid, Eldred, Pa.: Dr. Louis J. 
Gabriel, Eldred, Fa.; William F. GHIespie, Long 
Beach, N. Y.; Leroy J. Gonring, West Bend, 
Wis.: John E. Gorman, Chicago; William Gott­
sacker, Sheboygan, Wis.; Thomas Grady, Chica­
go; Arthur C. Gregory, Canon City, Cdc: Faai 
A, Gnamieri. Warren, Ohio; Lmis H. HsTuman. 
Fairfield, Ohio; Rev. H. A. HeintaUU. C.S.C., 
Notre Dame: Andrew L. Hellmuth, Sprlnglidd, 
Ohio; Raymond A. Herrly, South Bend; Dennis 
J. Hickey, Davenport Iowa; William J. Higgins, 
River Forest Bl.: Leo J. Hofschneider, Bodies­
ter, N. Y.; Leon C. Hufnagd, Battle Creek, 
Mich.; William L. Jacobs, Clevdand; Howard F. 
Jeffers, Chicago; Danid Kalczynski, South Bend; 
Francis P. Kelly. Joliet BL; Arthur V. Kerns, 
Saginaw, Mich.; James H. KIrfay. New York City: 
Alfred J. Kdka, Bufblo, N. Y.; Louis A. Lange, 
Fond du Lac, Wis.; Paul J. Larmer, Oak Park, 
Bl.: Robert M. Lauer, Chicago; Dr. Kenneth F. 
Laws, Lafayette, Ind.; Robot LeWre^ Eacanala, 
Mich.: John A. Loritsch.-Schenectady, N. Y.: 
Eugene Lounsberry, Brooklyn, N. Y.: James Mae-
Devitt Jackson Heights, N.' Y.; Robert J. Mae-
Donald, Flint Mich.; Joseph A. Mahar, Kingston, 
N. Y.; Joseph F. Mahsfidd, Providence, R. L; 
Arthur R. Martin, Jr., Chicago: Francis J. Mar­
tin, Lockport Bl.; Joseph McGratb, Spriagfldd, 
Bl.; George R. McNeile. South Bend: George E. 
Hilton, Brooklyn; John J. Horan, New York City: 
Gilbert R. Moty, Bend, Ore.; Arthur J. Hulhol­
land, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Francis J. Humy , Eli*­
abeth, N. J.; Joseph J. Newman, Sooth. Bend; 
Michael J. O'Connor, Charleston, W. Va.: James 
C. O'Keefe. Oak Park, Bl.; Edward F. Owens, 
Denver, Colo.: Lawrence S. Palkovic, Johnstown, 
N. Y.: Andrew J. Pilney, Berwyn, Bl.: Joseph J. 
Ponzevie. Chicago; Dr. James J. Quinn, Columbia. 
Pa.: Joseph W. RaUgan, Bordentown, N. J.: 
Samud R. Reed, Harrisburg, Pa.; Alfred H. 
Rohol. Wllmette, Bl.; John F. Ryan, Oak Park, 
Bl.: h. Charles SchaSIer, Memphis, Tenn.; Jo­
seph W. Schmidt New York City; Paul E. 
Schrenker, Anderson, Ind.: Anthony T. Seobro, 
.Arlington Heights, Bl.; Dr. John F. Shaffer, 
Pittsburgh: Francis P. Shapiro, New York City; 
John J. Sheehan, New Haven, Conn.: James J. 
Sherry, Tarrytown. N. Y.; John J. Skdiy, Hemp­
stead. N. Y.: William J. Smith. Chicago: Ridiard 
W. Snooks. S t Joseph. Mo.; William L. Stmek. 
Dayton. Ohio; Joseph D. Sullivan, Aknm, Ohio: 
E. Fred Thels. Indianapolis; Matthew J. TberiMS, 
Cindnnati; Eugene E. TAin, Chlcaoo: Tbomas 
J. Tdiiii. Kua n Ctty, HOL: ThooM J. Ttma. 
Jtot^ . NjJ.; JCTOIM ToKl. Sorth Bod: 
John V. Walker. Keokok. Idwm: HoA & Wdk 
Jr„ OaytoB. Ohio; Hanriee F. WatkBsaeh. aW*. 
m,; William Wabh, Jr., Yonkeis, M. T.: Ftcd 
C. WdMT, St Loois, Mo.; George H. .Welt FOR 
CUntno. Ohioi. 
From . WeB, gentlemen, oar first five-year icuaioa Ina come and vnie in a grand wedc-od of foa, oU memories, and good times. We'B SOB IV the m­unioa by chana^g slightly the sonc haai4-_a> many times in those three days -:— in short, wcHI just say "The gang was aD tiien." ' 
TVylng to chronlde the events of the nesl iial would be too big a job. You can look at the be­ginning of this eohmn and get an Idaa of the grand turnout Trying to cover anythlns tat the hlgh-vots would be nsekas. If .you weren't Osiev you can't say we Adn't warn you that yoa were missing something yoo eoold never I'li-iiini* 
' agiUn. And so, oor five-year leonloa is now jDSt m mighty pleasant and eheerfal memory to the ludcy ones who were present , 
The grand tum-oot ior the week-end and the large number who attended the Class Smoker in Carrol Bee Friday evening waa sorprisins to your secretary In view of the many members of the class who are in the Array and Navy. The Smohr drew dose to a hondred paid admissions, wUdi sets a new record for 'attendance at this annual function of the five-year reunions. The way How­ard HaU was packed to the doors bore testimony to the raany who showed up on Saturday for the rest of the week-end's fnn. All in all, it was a most satiating tumoot 
And .now, a few hows to the boys who worked so that yon nugkt enjoy yooradves. It aU £dn't jost happen, yoo know. Hrst and foremost; a big vote of thanks to the one who really sweat so that the Cbas Smoker would be the hnge soeeess that it vras — Bab Ervla. On bdialf of the dass. we have already thanked Bob and his sweB eom­mlttee composed of Caisd Bdawat. who kept tiie cheer flowing that ni^t. Gkarlsy Pitaililr, Oaa KakvMU. and Geacn HcNcile for a big job weB done. Bot we think that a pnblle aebunrledgment of the dass ddit should be made. So. gentlemen, here it Is — and thanks a million again. 
The Smoker was tiie finsndal soeeess that It was — dearing some <$1. whidi was toned over to the Class Msss Ftaid — largely beeaoas of flw work of the door eomndttee cuiiipiseil ot Bab Cavanaagb. Ts a Campbdl and Daa •akaraaki. Those three really put thdr hearts Into thdr jobs In guarding the entrance, if yoa know what tiiat meant and thereby Insured oor stayins in the black. And a bow also In tiie dIreetioD of M n Byaa for the grand job he Si In entertaining the gang with songs and In leading the gnop dnglng. Mm, we understand. Is to be heard this winter with the Chicago Civic Opera, and it he gets half the reeeptiim be £ d at the Smoker, his success Is assoied. 
A U g vote of thanks also to Bin Wakh and his eomndttee for arranging the Cbas Hsss Sonday mondng. and *nsy^g the coBectioa for the Class Haas Fbnd. The profits from the Smoker, when added to the eoBeetioa were sliditly in exeess of the $W needed to provide a Haas a aonfli tar the living and deceased gradoates of I9M oatil oor next.reonion in 194(. 
A bow also to Osaay Ctardi and Hatt Ihtnc s for whipping togetber that stellar eoDsetioB of ban players that engaged the ten-year (aa c in the tradtional softhaU game on BaAa FltU Sat­nday morning; Ot edorse, we won the gaaatar a eoafortaUe margin, bat if this vetsiaa doasa't agree with Jeba Bsnaa's 19a eoloam. why jost remember that, hdng out ten years. Bergaa.ft Co. hare probably fotsotten how to eoont. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
And finally, let's not forget the boys in the Alumni Office, BUI Dooley, Jim Armstrong: et al. 
•who •were ever-ready -with advice, suBSestions, and ­help -when called upon. Yon can show your appre­ciation best by realiun^ that you can't carry on an alumni progxani on good intentions alone — you benefit by it, and you should bear yoxir part of it by coming through vrith your alumni con­tribution. • No set amount — give •what you feel you should. 
In closing, your secretary wants to publicly acknowledge his appreciation and pleasure at the gift presented him at the Smoker by Bob Ervin and the committee in behalf of the class. For those who didn't get a chance to see it, we invite you to stop in at the Moran diggings •when in New York and observe the military set with the ND monogram which is now occupying a place of honor on our heaped-up dresser. We have found the writing of this monthly stint a bit of a burden on occasions during the past five years.' but we feel now that it was worth it. Thanks again. 
lliat about winds up the doings in this corner for this issue and the next few months- For those who attended the reunion, no words in these pages will add much to the satisfying memories that you took away with you from Notre Dame. For those who couldn't get back, for one reason or another, we'll be glad to answer your inquiries if we are able. 
A fiiml word to the boys in the Army, Navy, Air and Marine Corps. Let us hear from you and we can then put you in touch with those from the *36 gang 'srlio may be in your camp, air base, or naval station. 
And so, a good summer to you all. Kemembcr your secretary with an occasional card or letter so that we may start the fall column off with a full mail sack. 
(Ed's note: Special thanks from the Alumni OfHce to Johnny Moran for a job skillfully, f^ttt­fully and promptly done over the past five years and to Bob Ervin for his heroic service in arrang­ing the reunion locally. Only those like Armstrong and Dootey, who have grandstand seats can fully appreciate just how hard a good secretary works for his class. And Bob did the perfect job in lin­ing up the reunion activities with the aid of an exceptonally able and interested committee. Our gratitude to all.) 
Nelion Reese of Vandalia, Mich., has been ap­pointed St. Joseph county (Ind.) superintendent of work projects for the National Youth Admin­istration. He replaced Daniel J. Yonngerman who recently resigned to accept a job with Bendix, South Bend. 
Tom Bott, according to a Michigan scout, is selling insurance in Grand Rapids like all get-out. is married and the father of one young male. 
«Q^ « Paal Foley, 910 Hawtfaome Road, 
• '* » Graue Polnte, HlcUgan. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS 
James R. Bacon. LaPorte. Ind.; QiSord F. 

Brown, Norwalk. Ohio; John N. Cackley, Charles­
ton, W. Va.; Richard J. Carroll, Chicago: John 
J. Coyle, Chicago; Thomas E. DiUon, Girard. 
Ohio; Joseph T. Dorgan, Chicago; Harold J. 
Druecker, Evansville, Ind.; Arch F. Gott. Chicago, 
John F. Hurley,Eochester. N. Y.; 'William V. 
Jordan, Chicago: ]Bdmund P. Joyce. Spartan­
bmg. S. C.; Charles F. Meyers, Elgin, HI.: Harold 
E. Miller, Indianapolis, Ind.: Robert J. O'Byme. 
Oak Park, EI.; Henry F. Pojman, Cicero. HI.; 
William B. Prendergast, Bridgeport, Conn.: Jo­
seph P. Quinn, Newton, N. J.; William V. Shake­
speare, Statcn Island, N. Y.; Francis J. Smith, 
River Forest, III.: Luke J. Tieman. Washington. 
D. C ; Norbert P. Tinnes, Chicago; Harry M. 
Weakly, Peoria, III.; Joseph J. Welch. Weedsport. 
N. Y. 
1936 REUNION 
Hie 1S36 rennlonerB celebrate, abore, at the .Alaaial Banwwt an Satartay alsht aai, belaw, at the '3G party in Carroll Bee on Friday niibt. Praadaeat bdaar ara a caaple of caya wfcaw names BTC espe­cially in a certain IMS afternoon in Cohuabai, Oida, — Haak Pajaan, paatitur. and Andy PUney. all wound np for "Han, hail . . ." etc, led hy the •caMrahie Jahn Ryan. 
Richard Martin was recently appointed football coach of Concord High School (N. H.). He had been at Bound Brook, N. J. 
Bay McGraUi of Chicago is now Ptivate Xe-Grath of the Coast Artillery and is stationed at Torry Pines, Camp Callan, San Diego. Calif.. 
Labor difficulties among the employees and manicuring what by now ought to be the velvety lawn around his new house have kept Slippers and Pipe Foley from crashing through this time in your behalf. Or else he's been taking lessons from the secretary of *33. a fellow Detroiter (by day). who really knows how not to send in any news. 
Tlie ever-reliable Alumni Office staff, like the postoffice, comes up. despite all obstacles with a few items regarding the '37ers, viz: Thomas Pat­rick Carney received his Ph. D. in chemistry from Penn State College on June 9. Steve Bliller. of whom increasingly good reports have been coin­ing out of Washington, D. C, was recently ap­pointed assistant district attorney of the District of Columbia. Vince Hartnett was represented in the Jnne 7 "America" by an onts^tanding article entitled "Accent on Catholic in Catholic Action," whidi hit the nail ri^t where it needs to be hit. Unhappily. Yinoe had to leave the Jesnits after a year and a half in the novitiate because his health would not stand the strain. 
Detroiter John Ullmann sez that Steve Finan, married last December in Crawfordsville, Ind., to Pesr Cnmmings, is now working with BCke Lay-den, 'as, for the Indiana Bell Tel. John also re­ports on Hank Baen. also of Detroit, who is man­ager of the Cleaners* Hanger Co. Rnen, like Foley, is the owner of a new home. Such wealth! 
Dlhaann, incidentally, is a partner in an ontfit which manufactures burlap bags. Which really sounds as though he and Rnen ought to get to­gether somewhere. Yon know, — hang the body on a banger in burlap bag, or something. 
1938 Haiald A. WOBau. US Ea«t Laka Ave.. BaMmac*. UmijUai. 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRANTS 

Loois L. Anderson. Faducah. Ky.; Baiiiett 
Bauer, LaPorte, Ind.; Frederick CroIIard, Wenat­
chee. Wash.; Frank J. Delaney, Burlington. 
Iowa: Cbaries W. Duke. South Bend: Lawrence 
T. Eby. Sooth Bend; noma s Garvey, Sharon, 
Pa.: William J. Gibbons, South Bend: Lawrence 
G. Hess, Notre Dame; Don F. Hickey, South 
Bend: Robert F. Holtz, Elkhart. Ind.: Thomas 
Hughes, Cdnmbus, Ohio: Call F. Irwin. Auburn. 
ni.: John P. Mahoney, Ashtabula, Ohio; Raymond 
J. Ibyer, Notre Dame; A. Joseph Race, Milwau­
kee ; John J. Rieder, South Bend: Otto E. Scherer, 
South Bend: Charles R. Webster. Midland. Mich.: 
Leo F. Weidi. Indianapolis; Charles E. Welsh, 
Mahanoy City, Fa. 
F^om Hal WiOianu: mie special plea for correspondence in the May issue brought excellent results. During the past two weeks I have received many letters from the 
boys, three of them from classmates -who are writ­
ing for the atst time. 
First. Tom Hiillisan who writes this interesting and newsy letter from Harvard: 
•TToor recent pleas for news have apparently melted the most frozen pens, for here I am mak­ing my first eontribntion to your column. And I ­can do no more than offer my hnmhie apologies for ray neglect. 
"As for myself, I hope to get my LL.B. in a few weelcs, take the Ohio bar exam, and then join up with Uncle Sam—the draft seems to be one law that the lawyers haven't been able to get around. But at least lawyer Tom Haher is safe (he will get his degree in a few weeks also) be­cause he not only has a wife but also two chil­dren. Yep, a boy and a girl, the girl arriving just a few weeks ago. And what a proud papa—he just beams all over. 
"Cha'A Scannell has worked everywhere (even in Bangor, Kaine) since he finished a year of graduate work at Northwestern. At present he is with the (Commercial Investment Trust (Corpora­tion in Bridgeport, and he informs me that he has applied for a Job with the F.BX While in Philadelphia for the spring vacation I ran' into J»A Langien, who is finishing his third year at the Fenn medical school. I met him as he came ont of church (on a week day morning, mind you), which furnishes a presumption that he is still on the straight and narrow path. He told me that Ed Wiape is now working for do Pont in Wilmington, along with Bob Leonard—and Bob is now happily married, or is' that old news? [Sec­retary's note—Yep I] 
"No word has been received from that budding utility magnate John Boarke lately, but I under­stand he is still doing excellent work for Com­monwealth Edison in Chicago. I saw Charlie Cal­lahan "a few days ago, and he is still in fine shape. He is now acting as publicity director for Boys (Clubs in New York. Nope, he wasn't draft­ed, although he came dangerously close. He told me that if he got in the army he feared he would have to star up'all night in order to get up in the morning—so you can see he hasn't changed. Phil Bayer stopped by and spent a ni^ t with us in (Heveland during the Christmas holidays. I think he is worldng for (^neral Electric. He looked very prosperous. He reported that Bnd Kolp is married and so is Charlie Morrow. 
"Unfortunately, I haven't much news on my fellow Clevelanders. Bob Badonan, who was with the East Ohio Gas Company, has been drafted. The last I heard of Harty Fox vras that he had joined the Army Air (Torps. Chariie Hacahiso is teaching school, and claims he is going to do something desperate 'if those kids don't stop call­ing me Max Baer.' 
"Chic Gallacher is president of the Notre Dame Club in Boston. He did a fine job of arranging and presiding at the recent luncheon for Fattur CDenneU. Incidentally, Earl Brown is now end coach here at Harvard. I saw him at the Univerw sity boxing tournament a while ago, at which yours truly took a licking from one of these Har­vard lads. Oihora, Horrin, and all the boys, are due to get their degrees here soon. It appears that John Sdiemmer probably will graduate mag­na cum laude...." 
Nice going. Tommy, and write again soon. 
John Jebk, now living at 1108 Kanawha Boule­vard, East, (Aarleston, W. Va., came through with this eraekerjack letter: 
"I promised a letter when I married, but I've been a busy man since and thafi the only reason for the delay. I married Miss Irene Marie Bor­deaux at Alton, ni., on Nov. 28, 1940. Marc Gren­felder, my old loomle, was the best man. We spent the winter in Beloit, 'Wis., of all places, where I was working for Faiihanks-Morse and (Company. We left there the last of February and ' came here to Charleston to work with- Carbide 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
and Chemical (Corporation. We have found this town very interesting and unite pleased at the change made. Fm worldng as a piping draftsman —following the line I had while I was with Shell Oil. We were here for the Universal N. D. idAt banquet and met all the other (Charlestoa ahnmd. They are a swell group, mostly engineers and chemists. 
"I was quite surprised to find Howard Lardie. '39, worldng here—also that he was married in January. They have been transferred to Texas City, Texas, where this company is building a new plant. Hike 0'(Connor and Bab Galahair, '39, are worldng here. Also Bob Shoemaker, '40. 
"Last summer I was working at Camegie-IIlI­nois Steel Corporation's South (Chicago mill as a Navy inspector and found Red Cairigan there as a labor gang boss. He was still living on the North side. Bed and I often talked of a party with some of the other boys—^Kerwin and Bay Fiedler but I left for Beloit before it materialized. I was also with Glenn Martin in Baltimore for several days last spring but gave that up for three months in a forestry camp In southern Missouri. 
"Mare Gmenfelder is with (Curtis-Wright Air­craft in SL Louis and Gtortt Griggs and his twin boys have opened a law office In Lebanon, HI. We saw the Griggs family on our way here. We also stopped off to see Batch Borgman In Evans­ville where he was deputy relief trustee. Just yesterday we received a letter from Butch who is now at Fort Shelby, Miss., a ward of the Selective Service. Jack Davis is an officer in the Naval Air Corps and is now stationed In Hawaii. John Poore Is at (general Electric in Schenectady." 
And this from Didc (Carney (also writing for the first time on the stationery of the F. W. 
•WooUvorth Company five and ten cent goods, spe­cialties, etc): 
"Have decided that I had better come oat of retirement and see what the rest of the world is doing, particularly the class of '38, I am sorry to have to correct George McDermott in regard to what I was doing in Lockport as it sounds like a much better job than the one I had. Tlrnt was the first store I was in for the Woolworth Company, and I was starting into learn the business in a stockroom. One night while bending an elbow down there I was introduced to a cousin of (Seorge's. Since then I have been in five of our thirteen stores here in Buffalo for the past two years, but I have spent most of my time worldng. However, I have seen Dick Danahy several times (I understand that both Dick and Mickey Daley, ex. '38, are to lie married soon). 
"Incidentally, if any of the boys happen to be in the vicinity of 'nconderoga on August 5 they can drop in and get some better staff to cool their tonsils with than we enjoyed in the Bend, at the marriage of Jane Moloney and yours truly. I used to see John Clifford quite frequently when he was here with the W. T. Grant Company. I saw (George Simpson at the Statler Easter Saturday night at the Buffalo (Club dance. Jim Drialase. ex. '38, tells me that Chock Sweeney is still gohig strong in the Bend and that Ed Hagan is d^ng right well by himself. Also heard from Beb Mc­Cormick and Harold Bolsvert through my future brother-in-law. I had a letter from Pari Leahy last fall in regard to attending one of the games, and he claims he has a son who is going to pass to Sweeney's offspring on the 1960 team. 
"Does anyone know where Ed Ro«Ae, Tom Kelly and Jim HcGoIre are? I had letters from them and when I answered them (about six months later) the letters all were returned after having travelled all over the country. 
"I am thinking quite seriously of quitting Wool­worth and joining my brother in his business at home, so If any of the fellows have the ambition to write me there (401 Lake Gtoisa Avenue^ TI­eonderoBa, N. T.) m answer and mak* a date 
for the Amy gam*." ° 
This ^edal ddivcrr letter arrived ttiis -»»-«-g (Memorial Itay) fiem Tarn aheUa, one of oar best 
"Your monthly stint in the May issot of the 'AhmmusT was as osoal A-1 material exempt for one glaring omission. Ferimn the fimlt is my own though because I have been meaning to writs yoa any number of tines rince I last saw yon at the Fenn bar the ni^t of the Amy i 
Andrnw, here's tiie Hem.... Saturday, April 19 was Paul Berere Day in Boston and 'VP Cssigi 'Red-Beard* FHspatrlA celebrated the oeesdon by getting married. Mrs. FItzpatriek is the fomer IVanees Ellis of (Chesnut lEO. Masa. It was my privilege to serve as best-man (the 'best' was none too good) and Lcanie Tabin. who, inddoitally, was married last falL was also there serring as an nsher. Vie citizens of New England made plenty of noise in downtown Boston.that mem­orable ni^t, bat thoae N. D. forrigners who had converged on the Bob (City for the EHIs-FItiMt­rick festivities really blew thor own respeeUre tops. 
"LKwnmtt •Hook' Kerwia came all the way from (Cleveland for the gala affair. The reception was held in the smart (Copley Plaza with ahoot 250 people attending inehiding Ttimas 'Raster' AtUassa of 'Wlndiester, and many others of Boa-ton's npper set. Ed KavanaaA (Cladi BijaiHs, and (ChaiSe CaBaban were expected, but coold not make it. Reynolds, I am told, was in (Cali­fomia. 
"I haven't seen Ed Bartaett for months. Pve been oa my back for ahoot five weeks and am just now starting to get aroond again. I picked up a strep germ somewhere and it settled in my right kidney. However, after this long rest they tell me I should be as good as new in another week or so. (Ckaifls HaHey, of "nenton, has been drafted and he leaves for his year's "vacation,* as he calls it, on Jane S. Hook Eerwin got a IB, I believe. I received my questionnaire hot as yet have not been classified. Fm still selling space for the 'world'a largest evening paper*—phig un­quote, and stm dabbling in the dance band field. 
"Incidentally, Fve got a new "name' for yoa to watdi. I think the last one I told yon to look oat for was Glenn Miller. Well put this name down in your book and watdi for the h^ d in the t(«i brackets in a few months or so... . Yangfan Mao-roe and his Ork.... InddentaHy. this lad is a good friend of Pita's brothervin-Iaw and he sang' several songs at the reception. Fve been following your Hems on Bad Skerwesd and was gisd to hear that be Is well again. Bod sat next to me in thoae advertising eoaraes we all took In the li­brary basement. II he's worldng in Tarryluwu, ril have to get op and see him soon—Tarry town's only a short hop from New Rocheile." 
Thanks, Ibm, and here's hoping you've reeov­ered by the time this is on the streets. 
And this from Pvt. Jaha F. Cleary, (Company M, 104th Infanttr. Barracks T. 724, AJ'o. 26, Camp Edward, Mass. 
"I was inducted into the army on March 19, just one month from the time I expected to be married..! also was going to be made perscawel . manager at Reed and Barton's...." Jack tdb all about army life and what he thinks about it. How­ever, since this must be sent through the mails 
we'll just skip the remarks. 
Bab "Tiger" McGratk vrrote that he and Miss Annabelle (Charters were to be married on June 4 at Notre Dame. Hie said that he wouldn't ba aUe to leave CkthoUc University in Washington until May 30 because of examinations. On June II ha will return to'.Wadiingtnn—on hia wed£ng trip— to pick up his diploma. These N. D. fdlows eer-Udnly can think of the original toaetes. Con­gratulationsb Tiger, on the wed£ng and best of hiek. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Oh ycB, HcGratfa adds this postcript to his U. S. NAVAL CADETS 
letter, "Got a letter from Harvey Foster (-who is now a G-man) and •who was reminded of me throogh the colmnn. See. You have a reader!" 
Bad Sherwood writes that he and his wife have returned to T^rrytown, N. Y., and that he is working-m the payroll department for Chevrolet-His address is 95 Beekman avenue. North Tarrj-­town, N. Y. 
Bob Hnllen, writing from 1369 East 5th street, Chicago, sent this message on a postal card. "I am at Chicago for '41-'42. I changed fields completely after my A.B. I am now in the history of art and had to start from scratch. Hope to get my M^. next year. My goal—a Ph.D. and a teaching joh. I don't see any other N. D. fellows here. I may go East this summer—^will try to see you.'* 
Bill Dooley send along this information picked op from the questionnaires sent out to you and you and you. 
Claric Reynt^ds wrote. "Antonio Marie Bayol. of Manila, '37, is now in New York working for the Philippine government's subsidized shipping line —De la Roma S. S. Co. He is to he married in New York during July to the widow of a former Spanish consul to the Philippines. George Keenan was married May 3 to Miss liUcille MacCauley, of Hillside, N. J. . . . Bill CostcIIo, who is working for du Pont, in Bridgeport, announced the birth of a daughter, Elizabeth Ann. " 
Chariie Osbom passes this information along about his fellow Harvard law classmates. Francis Arthur Halhem expects to pracUce in New Jersey ... . Jim Mabern will probably be in the army but if rejected will practice in New York... John Mnrrin will practice in Butler, Pa.., . John Boadi, already classified in l.A, deferred to take bar exams in Iowa and will be in the Army by fall... . John Sdiemmer, will practice in New York, Has repeated excellent record, and is a member of the "Harvard Law Review" . ., , Tom Radicsn. editor of '38 "Dome/* ex. '38, A.B.. LI/.B., Indiana. •40. is doing post graduate work at Harvard Law. Oshom, -writing about himself, said, "draft hoard can't make up its mind wheth­er they want me or not. If deferred will practice somewhere on West Coast, otherwise will be in the army." BiB Dooley also wrote that Scotty Reardon -was at Notre Dame in the last week of May and was, already talking about the five-year reunion in '43, when the big blow-off of the tTni­vcrsity'B Centennial celebration -vrill also happen. 
Eddie Blatfingly. now a private at Fort Belvoir, Va., spent the last week-end with me. giving me all the news on army life. Bob Webster had planned to stop over in Baltimore for another visit two weeks ago but important business changed his plans. 
And that is all the news we have for the June issue. Sincerest thanks to all you fellows who have written letters to the column during the past three years—seems more than three years doesn't it, boys?—and another hearty plea for postcards or notes during the summer so there will be something for the October issue. And now for my vacation. 
Tom Funic, late of Anderson, Ind.. is enjoying the soutliem climate of Mississippi, according to Iiis father, who reported on faim at Commence­ment. Tom can be reached through Headquarters Detachment Jhird Battalion, 152nd Infantry, In­telligence Department, Camp Shelby, Miss. 
Tom Kinnealey is reported as taking no chances -with a shortage of food. He is in the wholesale meat business in Boston. 
Bamett C. Bauer, is now manager of the Brin­ing-Goenther Soft Water Service Company, La-Forte. Ind. 
A Eioap of Notre Dame men, avlatiaB cadet* at Ike IT. S. Naral Air Station. Peniacola. Fla.. ex­amine a naral Kaplane. Letf to right are J. M. Bictel. ex. '39. Ed Colcan. '40, OUie Hdland. '39. Tom Dnrldn, '37, Endgn J. J. Womer, Noib S<Udd, '4(, Bine BinkowsU, 39. Dan SoBiTan. '37. and Joe Iieiring, 39. 
1939 VlMaat DeCauaer. SK Bn A GiMk, Kaoiaa Cttr. MlwwiL 
COHHENCEHENT REGISTRANTS Francis X. Bradley, Montgomery, Ala.; Robert 
A. Callahan, Hastings-on-Hudson, N. Y.; Emmet 
H. Crowe, Cincinnati, Ohio; Louis J. Demer, 
South Bend; John Donnelly, Notre Dame; John 
T. Doyle, Beardstown. HI.; Frank P. Fransioli, 
Memphis; John C. Gallagher, Chicago; George I,. 
Haithcock, Nashville, Tenn.; Irving F. Klister, 
Rib Lake. -Wis.; Joseph J. McGuire. Cleveland; 
Michael J. McGuire, Mishawaka, Ind.; Matthew 
J. McShane. Chicago; Carl L. Saba, South Bend: 
James H. Smith, Canandaigua, N. Y.; .Graham 
Starr, Concordia, Kans.; Arthur J. Woods. South 
Bend; Edward P. Wurtzebach, Notre Dame. 
From Vince DeCoarsey: The second year of trying to report the denons ways of '39'ers has drawn to an untimely, un­wept, end. Tales of the gentle graduates have steadily dwindled throughout the year, due, no doubt, to negligence in our letter and card writ­ing. Next year, we hope, will be different. 
Things, frankly speaking, are in a mess. Two whole years of battling depres^on, war, and the draft have soured a lot of the boys on writing— still, perhaps these same years have settled many so that they might find welcome relief from mind­ing the baby in just dropping a few lines on themselves and those from whom they might have heard. 
As for the month itself, news is just about average in quantity and a little better as to quality. Only yesterday three F.BJ. men dropped in to help me read a letter they brought with them. Out of Palm Beach it was—and from Ed O'Connor. After taking notes, photostating the letter, and examining it for fingerprints, they left satisfied that Ed really meant no harm. Still up to the old O'Connor tricks, Ed while under the influence of a glorious sun on a glorious Florida beach slowly turning bis glorious body to a glorions salmon pink, cooked np another of his rare and racy ramifications of fact. ]5d seems at last to have found bis niche in life and if we hadn't lost his address at Wounded Socket. R. I., we'd write congratnlating him on the fact. If he is within infc-throwing distance of this writer we'd appredate it if he would furnish this next time he writes. 
Tam Hogan broke many a Brooklyn heart in in his time, but this time must certanly have brolcen its collective heart when on the 14th day of June this year he took to himself a bride, Grace Marie McCabe—^who is a Jersey girl. The recording angel, who sits in the fourth row of the left field bleachers at the Brooklyn ball park, ought to be a little lenient in chalking this one up as an error for the name itself rolls trippingly 
' over the Brooklyn tongue. 
Did; Anton, from whom we are waiting to hear at this writing on the matter of becoming a soldier in Uncle FVanklin's army, wrote that he had moved to a new address—6922 South Jeff­ery. Dick came through with quite a bit of news on the Ixiys in and around Chicago, in effect.... "I got a call from Red Nenmann last week and arranged to meet the one man opera downtown. Jim WalA joined us and celebrated Neum's good fortune as a private in the army. I think he is to be inducted tomorrow (Hay 17) or the next day. Jim Walsh now has a yotmg son (which I think has been reported before. lest some think this is nnmber three for the Jeep). He's doing pretty well at Marshall Field's—too. Neumann told me that Didc CMelia has completed a fiying course and will soon be on his way to Randolph Field in Texas. 
"Chailie Nelson called me last Friday. He's still 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
at the U. o{ Chicago. We're going to try to get together some time this -weelc" 
And that is all from Dick except that he was expecting a June call in the draft if a medical exam didn't prove him unfit for service. 
From Bill Dooley came a u-elcome hit of news culled from various sources: Alumni Office vis­itors, alumni questionnaires, and a few letters. 
First, from Chadc Thelscn, -who has been since Jan. 1, 1941, athletic director and head coach of football and basketball at Salem, N. J„ high school. George F. Schartz, ex. '39, has been ap­pointed to assist him in coaling duties. Chuck has had visits from Jack O'Hara, who gave his old high school sv.-eetheart a ring at Easter time, and from Joe O'Connor. Chuck, however, doesn't say -what these -worthies are doing. Steve Ro­geniki, who is a member of the Moline, 111., police force, was married April 26, 1941, in Moline. 
Cliff Tallman, '38, is -working in the Camden, 

N. J., shipyard. And then Chuck says that he (Chuck, not CUfJ) was blessed with a son, Wil­liam Anthony, last New Year's Eve. Chuck wants Frank Gaglione to drop him a letter and, in case he has lost the address, it is 71-7th Street, Salem, N. J. 
And the last hit of news of the month comes from Bill Piedmont, the old journalism Hash, who says; 
"Have just brushed off your tears from page 29 of the April "Alumnus" in which you -were bewailing the fact that your news sources have been particularly dry at this time. 
"I have recently heard from Augie BOSSQ, my roomie. Red Lynangh, and Paul McCormack, and will pass along some of their items. 
"Augie is now Private Bossn in a Signal Corps Division at Camp Monmouth. Red Bank, N. J. He is in the athletic department of the camp, and, at the time of his letter, having the time of his life conducting spring football practice. Before being inducted Augie had been head football coach and athletic director of Chaminade High, Long Island, N. Y. 
"John Peter Lynangh, since graduation, has been a newspaperman with the Canandaigua, N. Y., "Daily Messenger" and has worked for one of the chain' stores in Detroit. He's now back in Rochester. 
"Paul McCormack is writing advertising copy back in I&rtford for the Curtis Pablishing Co., I believe—or he is doing some sort of public rela­tions work for the Curtis company. Reports recent visits with Jim Tansey, Dave Meskill, and John Toomey.... all of whom are going 'great guns.' Jim is teaching, Dave is an accountant, and John is selling typewriters or something of the kind. 
"On a recent visit to the campus I ran into quite a few of the law seniors who started back there in '35 with our class. John Savord is selling newspapers in the Caf, and is looking as pros­perous as yon please. Bill (Elgin) Meyers, Jake Bower, Bill HcVay, and Sammy Solct were all around, and yours truly enjoyed one of those Friday fish specials in the caf -with this gang. And, of course, I can't forget my old pat Art Phillips. Art is still over in the Biology Suiting, and will receive his master's degree this June. 
,- ^''Sinee graduation I have spent one year doing , fflWuate work at Notre Dame in Prof. Flynn's . ^- department of Social Work, and I am in my 
^ eighth month as youth director of St. Mary's Catholic Church in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan. I like it fine." 
*niat is what we would call a fine letter from Bill, and I trust that he and a lot of others will do as well next year. tJntil the tall comes, then, it is adios and thanks a lot for the letters during 
the year. 
From Meskill himself in Bridgeport, Conn, -with G.E., comes this welcome contribution: 
"We now have three NJD. men in the house here—Frank Toyne, '40, Kansas (Sty, being the latest addition. Frank is with Remington Arms, training here for a very good job in their ITa"""'! City plant, due to be ready in the falL Two more of the K.D. gang, '41 grads, are expected here at GX. shortly, Larry Sdimldt and Tarn Bela. 
"Herb Connelly, '40, who married his hometown girl shortly after coming here last year, is now the proud father of Kathleen, bom April 24. Also a dad is Bill Costello, '39, working for da Pont in Fairfield. His daughter is now a couple of months old. John Lake HeGainne*. '39, is still doing government ordnance work in Waterbary, but expects to transfer to a civil engineering job in New York shortly. John Toomey, '39, is doing very well for IBM as a senior nslf^man in the Hartford territory. Paol HcConnack, '40, is doing sales promotion for Curtis Publishing Company. Bill Smith, ex. '40, is also with Remington Arms here. Bob Schrsder, '39, is with IBM in Brook­lyn. Ade Martin, (DePere, Wis., graduate work in sociology, '38-'39) is now Private A. B. Martin, D, 27th, Camp Wallace, Texas. 
"Barney Sullivan, '39, has been transferred from Boston to Detroit to adjust claims for Lib­erty Mutual and is wowing the citizens with his Boston-Kansas accent. Elmer Harkakas, '33, a neighbor of ours, has a new daughter, Greg Rice is moving to New York soon, we hope.-Incidental­ly, Dad's gang, the Cracker Barrel Boys, the most rabid synthetic alumni group there is. reached their peak in New York tiiis spring when their party for Greg after the last big indoor New York meet drew a sizeable crowd to their rooms at the Taft. including Mrs. Nicholson and Greg's mother and dad, as well as a number of local fans. The Boston Cracker Barrel Boys, led by ­President John Kenney, stormed the city ten strong. and really entertjuned our boy the way Boston's Battery Associates have been doing for the football team the last few years." 
From Des Moines comes word that Ed Clark on May 29 finished his first three months of training in the Marine Corps and was commis­sioned a second lieutenant. After a ten-day far­lough he returned to Quantico, Va., for an ad^­tional three months of training before being as­signed to active duty. 
1940 Robert G. Sanford, 3934 N. Maryland Ave., Milwankee, Wisconsin. 
COMIiIENCEMENT REGISTRANTS Robert Barber, Erie, Pa.; Hardd H. Bowler, 
Joliet, HI.: J. Robert Brennan, South Bend: 
William G. Bums, Philadelphia; William J. 
Cannon, N. Muskegon, Mich.; Ehner P, Chaput, 
Detroit: Juan E. Cintron, South Bend; Jack C. 
Cole, Indianapolis: Charles £ . Dell, Columbus, 
Ind.: August B. Fipp, Defiance, Ohio; Robert T. 
Hooffstetter, Columbus, Ohio: Leroy J. Keach, 
Jr.. Indianapolis; John E. Mack. South Bend; 
Robert J. Mahoney, Ashtabula, Ohio; James P. 
Mcaarren, South Fork. Pa.; William F. Mc-
Inemy, South Bend: William S. HcKenna. De­
troit: William P. McVay, Bradford, Pa.: James 
T. Moore, Detroit; Paul M. Morrison, Lynchburg. 
Va.; William G. Ollare, Boston: Robert G. 
Sanford, Milwaukee; Robert J. Schultz. Oak Park, 
m.; Frederick R. Stuhhins, Indianapolis, Ind. 
From Bob Sanfoid: 
Last month our class news broke off in the middle of Johnny Mad^s letter because of a last minute space tie-up. This lack of space made it necessary for us to wait till this month to hear from Lou RIelly who -wrote in April. Last month John was saying: "I -wish 'Roben' BaUnett would say a few words to the 'Alnmnns' for my benefit. Wonder if he's still got that trombone oiled up. Poor Cleveland 1" 
The letter then continues: "I go out to the campus now and then and stroll around but it just isn't tlw aama any more not aeeinc Jtn y dyaa stridine along -witiii hli stack of nail, or Cbartfc KcBy catching that last five minntw be­fore Mr. O'Halky'a 1:15, or Chariie Mamfat's grin, or Jahii Kerrigam beading for the handball court or Dam GnHlaara trim figure along -with TraiV Ciaae and.... the rest of the 'A.©.' Oiw 
•When'a this guy going to shut npT I can hear it now from Fnak Gater in California to Jac Maaga— in Brooklyn, ao I wffl, but not -without urging every last one of yon to help ont with some news, and also give the rest ol us some dues as to your whereabouts by sendins letters, cards, backs of an old diploma -with some news on 'em.' 
There isn't much I can say in thankins you. Johnny, except that I wish we could have a letter like yours every month, "niose last few lines voice my sentiments perfectly. 
Jabn Wdbater, the Florida boy who came to Milwaukee only to join the Army, left on the last day of April for Camp Grant in Illioois to spend a year with TJ. S. Dan Hashck is now a chemical salesman, and is ao busy that he just stays for dinner at the Ihuraday noon lundieons, and can't spend the whole afternoon vrith us like ha naed to do. Ttt Biadi vork^ in the Allis Chalmers seeounting offices all during the strike, altboash there -were a few days he wasn't quite sure of himself. Bill Smaller is back In Milwaukee after spending a few months in Florida. Jiat Karr is doing very well, but hasn't missed a Notre Dame doing yet. Taai Bany, ex. '40, is at the Marquette Law School and he and Neal Gleaaaa have been exchanginir ideas on some very interesting sub­jects. Jade Deaae. law graduate.- has joined the FBL and his father tells me he has really been getting around the country. He is now located in Roanoke, Va. 
Just received another letter from another Com­merce man—not many A.B. ~men manage to find 
. time to write—Lea Beilly -writes from Florida and says: "There are lots of fellows here in Florida from whom I never hear or never see. I don't know what happened to Bod Katte, BID Nacangaat, Joios Webster and a few others who were fellow members of the Florida Club at school and it would he a pleasure to bear abont them. 
"After reading Jerry Donavan'a letter, I want to make a little correction. Be stated the Jade RaceiB was at Pensacola with the Navy Flying Corps, but I met Jack the other day In Jackaon­ville and he informed me that he is one of Uncle Sam's Flying Cadets at the Army Base recently completed in that city. It -was great to see some­one from Notre Dame and I think that the two of us stopped the whole show when we recognized each other. 
"Another of the boys who everyone remembers is Bad Gentaer. I had a card from him more than a month ago and X feel that I have really ne­glected my old roomie by not writing to him but I'll get down to it some day. Be is a flying cadet also, and is now located at the base in Lakeland, Fla. It sure would be great to see "The Gent" once more and I am planning a trip down there in the near future.. Jim Metder, another roomie and great pal, was connected -with the Home Rug Cleaners in Tfansaa (Sty (I think he -was head of the purcharing department, but Pm not sure), bat he was never very fond of that inside office work ao I think he has broken away from that by this time. Of coarse, he hasn't written for so lonir that I have little idea where he is or what he is doing. 
"Another of our classmates came to Jaekaon­ville several months ago—Jshn JaBan. Be was connected vrith the Army Air Base there, but I haven't seen him recently. I understand Taay Paleaxiaai'a wife was ill, I hope she is fally recovered by now. 
"I am connected with Marine Studios, wlildi 
max not mean a tiling to yon. However, it is quite a big project iiere in Florida and is defin­itely on tlie amusement and educational side. Tliere is extensive advertising about the place and perliapa some of you'liave heard something of it. It is the only thine of its idnd in the world where the public can see deep sea life in its natnral state. It is an aquarium on a very large scale.... 3Iy job here is in the accounting: department as asdstant to the comptroller, and a very interest­ing and pleasant job it is. The worlc is not too confining and the salary and periodic raises make me very happy about the whole thing. If the draft docs not catch me I hope that I will be able to report later that I'm still here. 
•*I also talce great pleasure in telling you that I am engaged—since last December—^to a Chicago girl. Hiss ^t a Eioss. I promise more news in the neap future." 
A very good job, Lou, and I don't mind waiting a few months for a swell letter like that. Lou's address is Box 196. St. Augustine. Fla. 

Sorry yon liad to wait so long, Lou, I loiow you wni understand and please don't let it dis­courage you from writing this summer. The news • is ratlier heavy tliis month, the letters are coming in with encouraging regularity and then I did a little snooping at Commencement time and so ril give you the dope. 
Tlie first letter came from Ed Falham who has a job and seems to be enjoying himself. He writes: "The paper is in bed and this is where I talce a couple of minutes off to have a coke before batting out a couple of columns of movie publicity for tomorrow's edition. 
For the past three months I have iieen on the editorial staff of the 'Alhambra Post-Advocate.' Howevc^, with nothing to report other than my own limited activities — -which maJce uninspired reading—I haven't written. I am not unlike a monk without his monastery as I have no inter­ests outside my work, neither blonde nor brunette. 
•TTie "Post-Advocate' is a fine little paper with a metropolitan flavor because of its proximity to Los Angeles. My duties cover a wide range with keeping the paste pots fall being not the least among them. I do movie publicity for ten theatres, rush copy, nurse two AP* teletype machines, re­write, mind the morgue, mats and pix, and some general news work. As for a promotion, I can go in only two directions.... up or out. The re­muneration is "nominal' plus that intangible 'ex­perience' with which the employers so benevolent­ly bestow on anyone hatched in the class of *40. But all in all I like it very much and wouldn't trade my job for the president's nor my place in the draft" 
Congratulations, Ed. Glad to hear you have a good job and expect you to be getting articles into national publications soon. 
Beoeived a letter from Tom Wall and find that 
. he reedves his mail at 323 Lauderdale Road, Cherokee Park, Nashville, Tenn. Tom writes: "I really haven't very much news but I guess every little bit counts so here goes.' Pitil Canale and myself are in the process of cleaning up our first year at Vanderbilt TTniversity Law School here in Nashville. So far as I know we're the only members of the class of 1940 in town. Phil D—gWily, who is a native, went up to St. Louis (or y^ny»« City; Fm not sure which). 
""Frank Galdm has been woriung for his Mas­ter's degree up at Bridgewater Teachers in Mass. achnaetta, practice teaching in a high school in Bandolph, Kass. and acting as assistant baseball coach. He tells me that Leo Santini is now 'Pri­vate Leo Santini. no. S2009Z8S, E Co., 8th IT. S. Infantry, Fort Benning. Ga." He also tells me 
that they have changed the areUteetm* eoone to 
four years, so Bob Nolan of tbe Walab Hall No­
lans, and John HeHash got through at tbe Kmes­
ter. They bouejit a flivver and started on a sketch­
ing trip around North America. The last that 
Frank heard of them they were in Hexieo headed 
for Hexieo City, though their plans called for 
visiting Los Angeles before heading back to N.D." 
[They were back at N. D. for graduation In June 
and had, in the library, a large and impressive 
exhibit of their work.] 
Thanks, Tom, for your letter, I would iiave pub­lished the entire letter, but there is a shortage of space these days. Ben Mnrdodc, the South Bend scribe, offers a few notes for publication this month. Ben says that Joe Gnccione is doing some analyzing work for fitzgerald and Young, certi­fied public accountants in Chicago. "Jae De-Ftanco is with the Department of Justice." saya Ben. "As for myself. I expect to get my physical exam soon, and then go with 'Uncle Sam.'" 
Good work. Ben, we all look forward to your news every month, so don't disappoint us now by slowing up. Now we have a letter from the Navy Lcn Barton's "home address" now is; Enngn L. 
F. Barton. U.S.S. New Orleans, c/o Fleet Post OfHce, Pearl Harbor, T. H. That's all there Is to the address, and the letter is even longer. Len tells us: "Here is a hastily written letter to let you know where a couple of your boys are from the class of '40. 
"At present I am an officer aboard the New Orleans, a heavy cruiser in the scooting force. 'niis is one of the best ships in the fleet so I was lucky to get on it. 
"You probably know about us reserve officers: Our so-day cruise and 90-day school. We are atill going to school aboard ship, plus our junior of­ficer job of deck watches. I am an anti-aircraft battery officer without miscellaneous duties. 
"While in Oslifomia I visited Jade DoniliBe. who seems to have a nice position at North American Aircraft Frank Gonter. whose mother died during the winter, is working for another plane factory. •Pandiy' Wilson is also votUng with a. plane factory, and attending his much talked of U. S. C. 
"'Charlie Magner has been caught in the draft, and the last time I heard from Harry Racers he was working for Sears Boebuck, and very inter­ested in his work. This life has its advantages and disadvantages but certainly it isn't dull. Honolulu reminds me of an Americanized Jap­anese town. All the country is beautifol and inter­esting. Tell the boys I would like to hear from some of them." 
After that letter. Len, Fm sure plenty of ns will write to you so that we can hear some more about you and Navy life. Tlianks for the letter. The last letter of the month is from Didc WItte, the Chicago engineer. 
Dick writes: "T have seen my name in print several time in the "Alumnus' and I gnes( that you heard about me from Ed Hart and Jade De Hois. From what Jack's folks tell me. he is it&ag very well at HJ.T. Saw Jim Kelly while I was in Baltimore, but I didn't, see Bart HaB. I haven't heard a thing from Jade Wilsan. Ji a Varga, ChaiUe Unccnfclder, Bob SalUTaii, or Frank Sdalcd. 
"'As for myself; I had a hard time getting a job last sunomer. I knew about the Coast Guard, and. with the draft coming up. I enlisted and sot a break there. I shipped in (enlisted) as a third dsss radioman, and was sent to radio school at Baltimore. I was made an asdstant instructor tn the school. In Fehmary I was transferred to flie Chicago, district and hope to stay here tiie rest of my hitdi. I was sent op to the district radio station for a couple of months, and then vas . 
transferred to the district offices. I am located tfaa% now doing some engineering work. This is a very nice job because I am at last using the stuff I learned at N.D. When I was back at NJ>. I saw Didc Fagarty. AI Hsoney. Frank Cnaa, Jaan Cintran, and a couple of others." 
Dick had a few more things to say. but I can't get all of them in this month. I do intend to an­swer ail my correspondence this summer, so don't be too surprised fellows when you get a letter from Hilwankee. 
Commencement time found me in South Bend and surrounding territory and there are a few things I would like to tell in as short a space as possible: Het Paal Harrison, Ken Callins, and Jaha Hack shortly after my arrival and spent the week-end with tiiat group. Ken has a new car and has a good job with the highway commission in Hinnesota. Bis address is Northome, Hinn. Saw Eail Bacea and AI Hooney, but our quiet conver­sation was Intermpied when Ed Jacobs and Lemy Keadi walked in together. Kay PtnelB was up from St Louis U. where he had just finished his first year of medical school, in a blaze of glory. He told me that he actually saw Ted Jochems there, and tiiat Ted was taking a pre-med course. Bab IkoBipsan and Don Harietta were around. Don hasn't been flying for the last couple of. niontIis,.be was injured and Iiad to stay in bed, 
but he certainly looks like it hasn't done him any harm. 
OurUe Hatcbcns is a married man, according to Paal Harriason- John and Ken claim that Bad Kerr named his bahy girl Shirley Ann, and Hike CMtan named his daughter Shelah Ann. Jade Cale was getting around town. Found Tom Halli­gan. Bill Hagan, Ed Kdly. and Dave Riedy hav­ing a little conversation. Heard that Res Ellis is teaching and coaching at some junior college in the east Harry Fearase is at a law school in Albany. Pat Gaiwan planned on coming back to 

N. D. hut obtained a dvil service job and could not leave Wadiington. Hal Bowler was there; he told me he has a job as civilian guardian officer of- some Army branch. He can't set called in the draft .and the army thinks he can do the country more good in his present job. BUI CHare stayed next to me in Howard hall, but all we did was accuse eadi other of maldng too much noise when -we dmold be sleeping. Bab SalliTan had I^^t for hotne just before I arrived, but Bin HcVay -was stni there. Ed Kelly was elected president of the Law Club. 
It's been one year, fellows, and there are a great number of you that none of us have heard from. What happened to Jerry Flynn. Pat Golf, CharSe HcCarthy, BiB Fay, Bab Jadge. Ed Keen. Bnky Jabnstan. TaaHy FHspatrl^ and all the rest of you that are "lostr* Take a little time out this nunm s and write, and, of course, I want every one of yon to remember that if you are ever in Hilwankee there is always an extra bed or two at the Sanford home. Hoping to see a great number of you, and to hear from all of you, T m dosing till next fall. 
TUs Is more .'40 news from Don Foikett. boys' supervisor of the Leake and Watts Home School, 46S Hawthorne Avenue, Yonkeis, N. Y. 
""I haven't seen many N. D- men to speak of sinea I have been here. Hy old roonue, PUI Wale, Is an accountant at the Unden, N. i~. plant of the Genera] Hotors Corporation. /^ ^ Ivndi, the fbnrtii-floor philosopher of Wt'F' s ttopped in to lee me sometime ago with the Hrs. y Jim «a< dcdng tlie United States In easy stages r by automobile. Ijut fall I ran across Frank Baaaeit In a Hanhattan nlsjit spot, and be told me be was worldns in the adveiliibig depart­ment of the Kmeger Ale Company. I imderttand Oat Jahu y Gilraae ' ia still setting sdiolastie records at tiie Southern California Hed School. 
^> 'writins from Fordham Law School. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
tells me that another ex-roomie. Jade Diamceald is busy in some army camp telline the engineers in tme Dmmgoald style bow to boild bridges and break hearts. 
"Eddie Hart writes me now and then; he is an inspector with the Sisnal Ck>rps and is stationed in Boston at present. I believe I read somewhere tiiat Harry Harr, '37, is an assistant coach at Boston Ctollese. Harry "Pappy" Fennae, at last ' report^ was stndyine law in Albany and Hariy Bacecs was worldns for Montgomery Ward some­where in that vicinity. When our school basket­ball team played in North T^rrytown last winter, I bad a short chat with Jim Doyk and Johnny Ennii. '39. I saw Tom Wade, '33, and Joe Wade, *36, in New Jersey a month or two ago; Tom is still with the FBI. and Joe is with Standard Oil of New Jersey. Gen* Golden is working for the Haytac Co., in Virginia, and Paul Hartiien, I 
believe, is in (Sndnnati. 
Tam Liston, Jr., is an air corps cadet stationed at Sparta Field, T^Isa. Okla. 
A letter from Bab Beandine to Prof. John Shee­han tells us that he is in the Navy Air Corps, stationed at Jacksonville, Fla. Among the other Notre Dame men there are Jack Bogen, Bill Tacker. Daag Bangert, Jack Fox, and Paal Leaibaiu 
Clarence T. "Fete" Shechan is now with the 'Crascon Steel Corp. in Youngstown, Ohio. 
By way of his returned centennial records data sheet. Al Kesaing reports that he is now in Clarksburg, W. Va., as district traffic supervisor for the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Co. John Weldi, of the same company, is also in Clarlcsburg, and Bob Howard, ditto, is in Hunt­ington, W. Va. AI says that John Jolian and Tom Doyle, '37, are in Cl.trksburg too. 
«p^ « John W. Pattetson, Jr., 5530 Darling­' * * I ton Rd., Pittsbargh. Pa. 
John Patterson is your man, and a topnotcher. With your help — and it does take your help — he'll be one of the best in a long line of superla­tively good class secretaries. 
John will make his "Alumnus" debut in the next issue, in October. Meanwhile, fire in to him, by pony express, telegraph, long distance tele­phone or just plain mail all the news about your­self and your particular pals, — jobs, new jobs, marriages, births, new addresses, the where, when and how of your military service. In other words, send John the kind of stuff that you'd like to read about somebody else. 
The Placement Bureau has, by devious means and through innumerable sources, gathered some information on the '41ers and their jobs. There are no guarantees about accuracy, understand, and, if we've got anybody wrong, he is jwrfectly free to write to Mr. Patterson in protest. (Aside: that's one way to get these guys to write.) Also, those not listed should write in to Patterson. (Aside: What a brain, what a brain!) 
Anyway, for better or for worse, here's the 

collected data on the gentlemen of '41; 
Arnold Altman has a job with the Indiana Hidiigan Electric Co. in South Bend. His brother, Herman, is working at Bendix Aviation and is planning on graduate work at N.D. in the fall. Dick Batt and VInee Bernard are with Caterpillar Tractor Company in Peoria, HI. 
Emeiy Beica is with International Harvester Corporation as an accountant. Bob Boyle is with a hometown firm, the Anaconda Wire & Cable Company, Syracuse, 111. Dan Bradley is with the duPont Company in Toledo, Ohio. Walt Brodbetk has an accounting job with Stndebaker in South Bend. Jae Braasaard is with the Beaumont. Rice Mills in Beaumont. Texas. WHawtt BiawB baa an engineering job with General Electric Gorporatkra iu Schenectady, N. Y. His engagement was re­cently announced and he is scheduled to be mai^ ried Aug. 9. BiB Carson is with the Biidseye Corp.. a frozen food concern, in Indianapolis. Dava Paw­ers, Fred Fowler, John IHA.^J. „|d Eager Foley have been inducted into the Marine Be-serves and will begin their training aometiiiie ­early in July. Roland BeUadana. JIa LaaenuB and Leo Hillehrand. Jr., are the Marine alter­nates and are scheduled to go sometime In Getoher. 
Tliad Cassidy is with Commonwealth ESaon Co. in Chicago. Jim Chaaipley is with Carlude Jk Carbon Chemicals Corp. in South Charleston, W. Va. Wilson CrandeU is with a division of General Motors Corporation in Detroit. He has an aceoont­ing job. 
Frank Doody, is with Stndebaker, South Bend. Gene Dnckwonk is with General Electric, Schenec­tady. Bob Dyke is in Chicago with the Illinois Bell Telephone Co. Ben Fishbarae is with Bendix in South Bend. Cari Fredetidcs lias a job in a naval aircraft factory. Tom Gallscher and Milt 
, Piepal have been signed by the Detroit Uons to play professional football. Charlie Geiaid of Mishawaka is in the U. S. Naval Reserve. Jaha Gero is with Republic Steel Corp. in the Canton, Ohio, plant. 
Bin Glenn is with duFont in Wilmington, Del. Tom Grady is at the Mellon Institute, Pittsburg, for the Carbide & Carbon Chemicals Corp. IfaraH Graham is at the U. S. Rubber Co. (Ball Badd) plant in Mishawaka. Engineer Charlie Giccne is with the Retlly Tar & Chemical Corp, in Indian-­apolis. 
"Punch" Hannigan is with the Chicago works of Republic Steel Corp. Norm Hedder is in Har^ vey. 111., with a Diesel engine firm. Maxwell Hill is with Carbide & Carbon Chenucals Corp. In South Charleston, W. Va. Fled Holsinger is graduating in August and is already placed with Stodebaker Corporation, South Bend. Homer Haghea, who fin­ished in February, decided to take law at N. D. Joe Hughes, the engineer, is at Bendix in South Bend. Jake Jaqaay is going to take graduate work at Notre Dame next fall. 1mA Jeyce is working in the South Bend store of the J. C Penney Co. 
John Kane has accepted a commission in the Signal Corps of the TJ. S. Army. Ray Kdly is with Kemper Insurance Co., Chicago, and is go-. ing to law school in the fall. Fla Loparda is go­ing to Harvard Law School in the fall. Loa Me-Kensis is with Hasldns & Sells, certified public accountants. New York City. George Maarr is ^Tith TJ. S. Rubber (Ball Band) in Mishawaka. 
Joe McGeever has returned to his southern home and is working for the Tennessee Coal and Iron Co. in Birmingham, Ala. Dave Bloncrief is also with Carbide & Carbon Chemicals in South Charleston, W. Va. John Mortell has an account­ing job with International Harvester in Parkers­burg, W. Va. Fritx Nagel is doing graduate work work at Notre Dame. Boh Nolan is with his father's architectural firm in Louisville. He and John HcHngfa graduated in February and spent the past few months traveling through the South and Mexico. They sketched over 100 scenes and recently had an exhibit in the University Librair. 
Frank McDonoegh is with Bmnswick-Balke-Cal­lender Co., Chicago. Frank Kennedy is with Stand­ard Oil in Chicago. Jack Henneav is with Us father's insurance firm in Louisville. Jade Nace is with General Electric in Sdinenectady. N. T. John Honaghan is with Remington Arms in the Bridgeport, Conn., plant: Felipe Martinci has re­turned to Cuba, his home, and is with a Cuban concern in an engineering caparity. 
Joe Lawler is with Remington Arms in Bridge­port. Ttaa ••!• • has ntmMd to flw hoi 
BanobXer.. and has jcinad hi* father fai the hai> her bmliwii Ja* InBUaaaa la with Sawar la­suranee in Chirago tor tvaininc bat will ha ttaa^ ferrcd to Fhiladeiphia for wiadt. ia a fnr aaalha. Bail IlcCarthr is with WesHaghnnia BaeMa in 'the East Pittshoish. Pa., traiains iiiiaii Maiij OVdaa is In the Bahiaun offiea of the Ghaw­
peake * Potooae Telephone Ooavaay.: ' : 
Frank CCaaMB ia with Kaztia Alteialt CQI». in BaltiBMire. Jaha (yi>ta ha* joiaad tb* Haiy Air Coips and starts his training at GtaaHeo. IB , early in Julr. > * Oiialaih is with C*atral •» . tors in the Bodicster. N. T., plant. Til ITT ii i Ha is in the Chiesgo general otileis of the IIB­noa Bdl Tdephooe Co. HBtaa FasUa has a cbO service job at Wright Field. JlMytoa. OUo. ltar~ PiadH is wrOt Newark in the Intanaada*! Leasoe. tarn Bchi is in Bridgeport. Oain, wiA : General Elcetiie. •aBddUna S* witt the Co­lumbia Caiboa Corporation in Oiirlstc , W. Va. Jay Bmilia has joined the TUmtrAit'Coni-Jcny Byaa is with •art'n Airetaft Cotp. ia' Baltimoic. Jae Kyan is takins the tiainias BOM** of General Eleetrie. Bab Seas is wortiac tat Mm Winstoa Cbnstmetion COL in or near Tnahilli* Irwia Sthagaer i« dung graduate woA at IMia Dane. IBiliil Sddilr i* with Gaaerd Tliftila. "TiBCkr Schbf is worUns for the OUrcr Vum­Eiiuipia*iir Craapany In Sooth Band. Bar'ScHariir is with the Banger Airoaft Engina C6.eom Loac Island. N. Y. 
Lany Schiddt is with General .Eleetrie ia Bridgeport. Coon. Paal Scaly is with a tcxUls flmi,'the Bates Mfg. Co, in Lewiatoa. Main*. Fcaak Sheets, the track nan. is aaoiher '•ilh Carbide * Caihon Chemicals in Sooth OhaH** ton. W. Va. BH tllamiai. who llniahad in Ahn ­ary, joined the Navy Air Corp* and i* now ia tra&iinK. .'^Haai* Saylh ia worUng in Soath B«ad with the Stndtbeker Corp. B*b aimtk ha* podHaa ' in Clevdaad with the Cleveland Ho«itaBxatiaB Service ftieoriatiim. Ifaade at*ain i* witt Chr­ne^e- lUiooi* Sted in tlie GaiT. Ind, woika. 
Chadc Stint, the newly married, i* woAa s for Ralph R. Gcater, eertiHad puhUe amiaaliiil. ia Detroit. BB Stan* ia with A*kin* * Sdhb »*­lie aeeoontaats. Mew York Cltr. Bah fla«ait irtw waa drafted, joined tte Boyal Oinadian Air Flan* and ia now training aouieahera in <^wiada W Saatvaa is with the Bdllr Thr * Cliflcil Cocp.. IndianapoUa. Bib Swceaay is with BOKEZ Avi*-. tion. Sooth Bend. Gene T**l*a is in tha pinihia inr department of the Bddin M ^ Q>, CUcaco. Jack Tenacy ia going to do. graduate walk at MXT. Ti*a Vlaccat i* with General Beetrie ia Sdieneetady. N. Y. Jaka WSHTM is witt U. & Rubber (BaU Band) in Mishawaka. lad.. Bob WcrtbiC i* eomins bade to NJD. next fall to do . graduate watk in aodal woric LeBsy Wlaadkaa* is with the Goodyear lire'* Bobher Co. B * Wdb is witii the IHe*d Isboratocy of GaMnl Motor* in Detroit. BB WOssa is warUns for Detroit Efisoa Co. in Dttieit. 
'Ikel 

•or aummer 
JUNE 24 to AUGUST 6, the twenty-fourth annual summer session of the University. An opportunity 
1 for transient alumni to visit the campus during a delightful period, with a different and colorful stu­dent-body of the many religious orders, and many teachers, including some of the priests and 
brothers away during the regular school year. 
THE FAMOUS LAYMEN'S RETREAT, conducted by the Mission Priests of the Congregation, from Thursday evening, August 7, to Sunday morning, August 10. Board and room in the familiar resi­dence and dining halls of the University. Services in the Grotto and Sacred Heart Church. 
THE GROWING NUMBER of attractive picnics, golf parties, summer dances, and other events spon­sored by Clubs from coast to coast during the summer and early fall. Remember your own, in your vacation plans, and check on those of other Clubs you might attend. 
MOST COMMON PLEA of the boys in the services is MAIL. Clubs, and Classmates, can render signal service to the boys themselves, and the general morale — in addition to preserving Club and Class loyalties — by letting the absent men hear from you. 
IN THE RELATIVE PLENTY OF JOBS, don't stop trying to place the unplaced Notre Dame man, and to improve the position of the working alumnus wherever possible. 
QUOTAS IN THE VARIOUS COLLEGES for Fall enrollment arc filling up. School opens on Septem­6 ber 16. Don't let your boy, or the neighbor's boy wait too long.to apply. 
FOOTBALL TICKET SALE, for alumni and general public, opens on August I. If you haven't re­7 ceived your blank, marked ALUMNI by then, it will be because your address is not right on our 
mailing list, by which this ALUMNUS was mailed to you. Order promptly if you want both tickets and preference. The latter is extended only to those alumni whose contribution for 1941-42 has been made to the Alumni Association. ALL preference closes September 15, and before that date if the de­mand exhausts the supply. General public blanks will be sent to alumni, on request, and freque'ntly solve many of the problems which attend trying to aid friends to secure tickets. For ALUMNI blanks, write to the Alumni Office, if you don't have them by August I. For general public blanks, any time, write The Football Ticket Committee, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
THE ALUMNUS MAGAZINE WILL BE PUBLISHED AGAIN OCTOBER I 
(See page 16.) Until then, a pleasant summer. 










