The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
c;';..'.'.»• 
" i" ••iiiTnjVjniidi 

iataUB^iamitmitm 
"IT 
•yps 
'i 


r*t4. 
NOVEMBER, 1933 
?. * *^; 

«. 
••«« J"?* 




#;.#i 
7^?^,Zi^i i.-i..-.-"r'^:^'7^;:?:: 
r.J.-.*«i •>«'^-­



Ready to serve . . . YOU! 
T HAS been the privilege of the Hotel McAlpin to sei-ve as Noti-e Dame Team Headquarters in the past and we welcome this new opportunity to entertain Notre Dame cohorts. 
The McAlpin spares neither effort nor expense to make your annual visit a pleasurable event. We do moi-e than promise the best of everything New York affords — we guarantee it! 
Every room at the McAlpin is large and luxuriously furnished. McAlpin service is thorough, efficient, courteous and helpful. The ultra convenient location of the McAlpin saves time, effort and carfare in getting quickly to every center of activity. 
As for economy ... . McAlpin rates are at the lowest scale in the history of this fine hotel ... . yet there has been NO IM­PAIRMENT of superior service, fine food and luxurious accommo­dation. Single rooms with bath start at §2.50 — double rooms with bath from §4.00 and twin-bedded rooms at §4.50. 
JViite or wire for reservations .. .to 7iie personally if you prefer 
JOHN J. WOELFLE, Mgr. 

Hotel McAlpin 
Broadway at 34th St. New York City 
O'Grady, I suppose the cases are not it is, a drop in the graph of our foot­parallel. ball progress tbat simply rivals the perpendicular declines of our com­
CCA4MENT The problem is to convince the mil­
mercial progress all too long a time 
lions of synthetic, sub-way or what 
ago. 
have we alumni that a bad season in 
Around these parts it's hard to talk anything but football, and that is being handled elsewhere in this issue, which leaves this column out. 
But, you know the author better than that. 
In all seriousness, however, it would be gratifying to the far-flung alumni to be able to enjoy the whole­some balance that prevails in the gen­eral campus set-up in the face of ad­versity. 
You remember Rock's famous battle cry: "When the going is tough, that's when we fight." 
Academically the tone is consider­ably above what was once par. There is an intellectual agressiveness on the part of student and teacher that is piercing the well-known level of medi­ocrity in as many spots as there are fields of endeavor on the campus. 
Members of the Congragation are reflecting the policies of the present Order, with young men coming to the faculty from specialized advanced studies in this country and abroad. 
The author has accused the faculty of undermining the football team with culture, following reports that even the boys on the squad come into the always dreaded Monday morning classes with the glint of scholarship in wide open eyes. 
The lay faculty launched a brilliant social season, with wives as guests, at a musicale. 
Campus clubs are preaching a cam­paign of utility. 
S.A.C. and its branches are search­ing for activities of streng^th and merit. 
Visitors, outside those numbers at­tracted by the football games, are numerous and distinguished. 
The tone seems to be Notre Dame, ^vin, lose, or draw in football. And in spite of Dr. O'Grady's quotation in last month's ALUMNUS, isn't that the proper attitude? In justice to Dr. 
football is no more unnatural or more 
We can accomplish a great deal by essentially fatal than the year we 
confidence in our own administration, omitted the Class Poem for lack of 
which is composed of alumni, even as suitable talent. 
you and I, who love Notre Dame, even as you and I, and who are not 
No matter what your personal an­members of an Order too far removed alysis of the present situation may from experience to enjoy both sound be—and there are as many as there reasoning and necessary action. 

are readers of this paragraph—you can do the University and yourself a Let's keep what you have already 
great deal of practical good by be­so considerately established, our own coming a self-appointed apostle of NEA — this situation, explaining it for what No Rabid Alumni! 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University" of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALTTMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Almnnus, Box 81, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
MEJIBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OP THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUSINI FEDERATION 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 

of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, Secretary-Treasurer 
ALUMNI BOARD 
BYRON V. KANALEY, '04 ----- Honorary President 
U. HAKKY MILLER, 'lo -------- President FRANK C. WALKER, '09 First Vice-President ARTHUR R. CARMODY, '15 Second Vice-President JOHN F . O'CONNELL, 13 - Director ROBERT E. LYNCH, ' 0 3 -------- Director HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94--- Director FRED L. STEERS, 'ii --------- Director FRANCIS A. WERNER, '33 (one year) Director CLARENCE MANION, '22 (ex officio) Director 
^^QoldenSheeted Solden-Shod'39 
The re-ailding of the Dome bTiuos to mind again those beautifully descriptive verses of G. K. Chesterton in his "Arena,** dedicated to the University: 
"I liave seen, where a strange counti-y Opened its secret 'plains about me. 
One great golden dome stand lonely vAth its golden image, one Seen afar, in strange fulfilment. Through the sunlit Indian summer 
Tlmt Apocalyptic portent that lias clothed her ivith the Sun . 
. . . Burns above the broad arena Where the ivhirling centuries circle. 
Bums the Sun-clothed on the summit, golden-sheeted, golden-shod. Like a sun-burst on the mountains. Like the flames upon the forest 
Of the sunbeams of the sivord^blades of the Gladiators of God . . .' 


TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. XII November, 1933. No. 2 
Marconi Receives N. D. Degree In Convocation 
LL.D. Awarded to Famous Italian Scientist !n Special Faculty and Student Gathering on October 14; Recalls Dr. Greene's Experiments on Campus in Earliest American Wireless. 
Notre Dame was privileged to par­ticipate on Oct. 14 in an event which honored Church, science and educa­tion,, when the University, in special convocation in Washington Hall, con­ferred its Doctorate of Laws upon Senator Guglielmo Marconi, Italy's great scientist. The ceremony was most fitting on the campus where in 1899, one month after Marconi trans­mitted a message across the English channel, his revolutionary feat of transmitting a message without wires was first duplicated, by Prof. Jerome 
J. Greene. In brief ceremonies held in Wash­ington hall, Sen. Marconi was vested with the degree by the Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., '11, acting president of the University, before an assem­blage of the faculty of Notre Dame, students and townspeople. In welcoming Sen. Marconi Father O'Hara spoke as follows: "We regard this happy occasion as an extension of our graduation exer­cises of last June. Our illustrious guest was expected then, but an ac­cumulation of duties in Europe pre­vented his visiting our country at that time, and he had to defer his acceptance of the invitation extended nearly a year ago to accept an hon­orary degree. His Excellency has now paid us the delicate compliment of making a special trip from the Eastern seaboard to be with us to­day. "Notre Dame is grateful for the courtesy of this visit. And it is fit­ting that His Excellency should come to Notre Dame, for it was here on this campus, only a stone's throw away from where we now stand, that the jresearches of this genius of the air first bore fruit on this continent. In March, 1899, Senator Marconi gave an address on wireless tele­graphy in London, and this was fol­lowed almost immediately by success­ful experiments with the transmission of wireless messages across the Eng­lish channel. Prof. Jerome Greene then in charge of the Department of Physics at Notre Dame, had been studying the same problem. He was impressed by the principles laid down by this Italian boy—for Marchese Marconi was only 22 years old at the 
time — and here in Science Hall he constructed an apparatus by which he was able to send messages success­fully, in May of that year, first from one room to another in Science Hall, then across the campus to various buildings, then from the church tower on the campus to the tower of St. Hedwige's Church in South Bend, and finally, from the Monadnock Build­ing to the Tribune Building in Chi­cago, and from a tug in Lake Mich­igan to a tower at the mouth of the Chicago river. The essential parts of this apparatus. Professor Greene tells us, were all found in the regular 
"The University of Notre Dame 
confers the degree of Doctor of 
Laws on 
A scientist and inventor whose 
experiments in the field of electric­
ity, revolutionizing the communi­
cation of human thought, have 
made the world for all time his 
debtor, and have brilliantly dem­
onstrated once more the Catholic 
principle of the essential unity of 
science and religion, 
Guglielmo Marconi." 

equipment of the physical and elec­trical laboratories at Notre Dame, with the exception of a few details which were constructed in the work­shop by the students. There remains of this apparatus today only a coil; the other parts were lost in the fire which destroyed Chemistry Hall in 1916. 
"It is proper, then, that this Uni­versity, which was the first to give practical recognition in this country to the experiments of this youthful genius, should welcome him to her halls and adopt him as one of her sons. 
"We .welcome you, then. Your Ex­cellency, you and the gracious Mar­chesa to the heart of Notre Dame. We honor you for the good deedsyou have done for humanity and for God —^not only for your devotion to sci­ence, which is such an inspiration to youth; not only for the thousands of lives saved by land and by sea through your inventions; not only for the comfort you have brought to shut-ins; not only for the generosity which prompted you to make the voice of our Holy Father heard round the world—^to the glory of God and the spread of Catholic truth—but because you have recognized the finger of God in your work, and have shown in your life the conviction that science and faith are one in their source. Divine Wisdom, and one in their object. Truth. Christopher Dawson has late­ly pointed out that 'science and dis­covery, like a second eating of the forbidden fruit of knowledge, have proved a curse rather than a blessing to humanity. But,' he adds, the dis­ease of modem civilization lies neith­er in science nor in machinery, but in the false philosophy with which they have been associated." It was the abandonment of the spiritual or-they have been associated.' It was so needed, that 'allowed the new eco­nomic forces to develop nncontrolled without any higher social direction,' and this chaotic condition produced the disorders under which society is suffering today. 
"We bless God, then, my dear Sen­ator, for the genius and the faith with which He has endowed you. Your beautiful country has been a great inspiration to us at Notre Dame: your artists have adorned our walls, your greatest poet has found a sanctuary here, your ecclesiastics have showered us with spiritual gifts, and now you, by your gracious con­sent to adoption into our family, have added to our debt to sunny Italy the inspiration of science. We welcome you, then, to the heart of Notre Dame." 
Speaking briefly in acceptance of the honor, following the speech of ci­tation of the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, dean of the collejre of arts and letters. Sen. Marconi said he would treasure the badge of his de­gree as a symbol of friendship from Notre Dame.­
" L am grateful," he said, "to be able to come to the university which so early contributed to, and demon­trated what radio means to the world." 
Three choral selections were sung by the Moreau seminary choir. Seated on the stage during the presentation were the Most Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., bishop of the Fort Wayne diocese; The Rev. Francis J. Wen­ninger, C.S.C, dean of the College of Science; Thomas F. Konop, dean of the Law school; James McCarthy, dean of the Commerce school; the Rev. Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C, prefect of discipline; the Eev. James W. Don­ahue, C.S.C, superior general of the Order of Holy Cross; Father Miltner, and the Eev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, dean of the engineering school. 
Sen. Marconi, accompanied by the Marchesa Marconi, Dr. Antonio Fer-me, Italian consul in Chicago, Signora Ferme, and Dr. Sergius Grace, vice president of the Bell Telephone Co., drove from Chicago Saturday morn­ing, and were escorted by motorcycle from the Indiana state line. 
They were guests of the universitj­at luncheon in the president's dining hall. Following the ceremonies Sen. Marconi and the party paid a visit to the Eev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, university president, who is ill in the infirmary, and made a brief tour of the art gallery and library. 
Sen. Marconi also witnessed a dem­onstration of short wave radio trans­mission given by members of the St. Joseph Valley Amateur Eadio club in the engineering building. 
The following is an interesting bio­graphical sketch contained in an in­terview with Dr. Marconi by a South Bend press representative: 
About his own experiments and achievements, Sen. Marconi is reti­cent. Yet among his accomplish­ments are the radio lighthouse, by which captains of steamships may obtain their locations; the automatic SOS which is received by ships and stations regardless of whether an operator is on dutj- at the time; and the first steamship newspaper, news in which is received by radio from the mainland. 
Fift}"-nine years old now. Sen. Marconi shows little effect of his strenuous career during almost the past 40 years. He was only 22 when he perfected his first wireless trans­mitter, soon after graduation from the University of Bologna. The son of an Italian father and an Irish mother, young Marconi received his early schooling in England, and speaks English as fluently as his na­tive tongue. 
He has been honored by the King of Italy, decorated by Czar Nicholas of Russia, the King of Spain. He has received the Nobel prize in phy­sics, the Albert medal of the Eoyal Society of Arts, an LL.D. from the University of Glasgow, and an honor­ary D. Sc. from Oxford university. He was nominated for the Italian senate by the king. The title of marchese later was conferred on him. He served in .both the Italian army and navy. He was an Italian emis­sary to the peace conference follow­ing the World war. 
EELIGION, SCIENXE AND EDUCATION His Excellency, Bishop Noll, Dr. Marconi, and Father O'Hara, just before Convocatioji which added the iW.istrioiis Italian to Notre Dame abwini. 
Yet with all these honors. Sen. Marconi can smile at a group of newspapermen, tell of his hobbies— hunting, yachting, music — without a gesture of impatience. 
Older alumni, many of them, will recall those interesting days in the spring of 1899, when news of Mar­coni's success in flashing a message across the English Channel brought new activity into the little laboratory on the campus where Px-of. Jerome J. Greene worked with his students. 
Dr. Greene himself says of the his­tory of wireless telegraphy at Notre Dame: 
"Signor Marconi read a paper be­fore the Institute of Electrical Engi­neers in London, March 2, 1899. Shortly afterward he succeeded in sending a message across the English Channel. The report of Marconi's work interested us to the extent of trying to duplicate some of his earlier experiments. 
"We had no special apparatus but we assembled a receiving set by mak­ing use of an old telegraph relay and a sounder, in connection with a Bran­ley coherer which we made in the laboratory. A large ten-inch induc­tion coil provided with spherical ter­minals was our sending set. We op­erated from one room to another, then to another building and later to St. Mary's." 
In .4pril of 1899 Prof. Greene per­formed his wireless experiments suc­cessfully in Chicago, particularly ef­fective when messages were flashed to the life-saving station at the mouth of the Chicago river from a tug sent out in the lake. 
It is significant of Prof. Greene's modesty and humility and an added tribute to the great scientist just hon­ored, that the first word flashed over wireless in this country was the name "MARCONI." 
Coughlin's Father Gets. P. O. 
"J. P. Coughlin, editor of The Wa­seca Herald, father of Danny Cough­lin, '22, Rev. Bernard Coughlin, '26; and James P. Coughlin, '29, received an appointment as acting postmaster at Waseca from Postmaster General Farley the first of this week and as­sumed his new duties today. He suc­ceeds W. A. Clement, editor of the Waseca Journal, who has held the office since July, 1922. 
"Mr. Coughlin has been actively identified with the Democratic party since he became a voter and the ap­pointment is regarded by his friends as a recognition of long and faithful party service. He was a candidate for congress on the Democratic ticket last year and received the second highest vote in his party group in the primary election and the third highest in the general election." 



CONFESSIONS OF A "LIFER / / 
No Matter What Your Year, Read this Brilliant Account of a Significant Period and Familiar Men, Organizations and Events 
ei 
TH E ALUSINUS is capitalizing on the enterprise of a student who last year solicited Notre Dame history from those who lived it and could, by virtue of their iournalistic traininir, write it. Bill Kennedy, the student, struck the pick-like point of his searching : known as Georce D. Haller, now of Detroit, Mich., and struck the rich cold that ; dust throush the ensuing article. Ed. Note: The author's address, home, 
.\rbor, Michigran. 
By 

I have many memories that take their tinge from the golden dome, but with the passage of time they have grown dim of outline. Occasion­ally an incident will he vividly re­membered and will attract a train of associations, but when one deliber­ately sits down to recall old times, memory proves as fickle a maid as the poet's muse. 
Consequently, the best I can do is to attempt a chronological review of my days at Notre Dame, setting down whatever occurs to me which may seem of interest, and leaving to you the task of winnowing the trash for what grain it may contain. 
I came to Notre Dame in Septem­ber of 1911, becoming a first-year man in the prep school, at the same time that Eoclaie became a college freshman. Incidentally, I have the rare distinction of having been a member of the first football team "Rock" ever coached. Few people know that one Fall day in '11 or '12 a group of Car­roUites (the original Carrol-lites were the lower prep stu­dents—a step above the grade school minims of St. Ed­ward's) approached their pre­fect and demanded a football coach; that he passed along the request to Coach Jesse Harper, and that he kindly detached a couple of his stal­warts to show the kids the rudiments of the game, and that these athletes thereafter gave their spare moments in an autumn busy with class and varsity practice and other jobs, to this task -vnXh generous enthusiasm. One of those two was Rockne, then only a candidate for the var­sity, and thus was bom that unforgettable career which spread as wide as the na­tion and will live as long as the heart of boyhood. I re­call with real pleasure the fact that I was one of those first "pre-historic" pupils of Knute's, and I feel that in a 
 GEORGE DEWEY HALLER, PH.B., Joum., 
to pass the torch along, for "Freddie" Collins, the full-back who beat the Army with an arm in cast, and Jerry Kansavage, the tackle, were players at Columbia when I was junior coach there, and Tom Roach, Kurth's un­derstudy, was captain of the Catholic Central team I coached to the city championship of Grand Rapids a few years ago. 
When I came to Notre Dame in 1911, there were only about 500 stud­ents, counting all ages from six to seniors. There were three dining-rooms, all in the basement of the main building, the minims having the small room towards the front of the building on the east side, (the present Athletic Office) and everybody else, faculty included, being seated with room to spare, in the east and west rooms under Brownson and Carroll. I was a bookish, bashful youngster who properly belonged in the minims. 
A STAINED-GLASS SORIN SEES HI S 
 '19 

but was allowed to skip the eighth grade by the kindness of Brother Al-ban, then secretary, so that I might be in Carroll with boys I knew. It was my ill luck, therefore to have Father Farley, who paced the floor of our refectory to keep the peace, place me at the table where sat the toughest guys in Carroll — Tommy "Red" Glynn was head, "Red" Krampf and Lojeski (who later died as a result of poisoning from a bone brok­en in interhall football, one of the very few tragedies I recall) side heads. Just to teach me my place, and probably I needed it as I was throw­ing "dougballs," a sport reserved for my betters, I got a. backhanded slap from some husky at my very first meal, which resulted in a nose bleed. 
Carroll Hall in those days had a secret society of its own, perhaps the only approach to a Greek letter frat­ernity that the campus has ever 
 "PRINCES" NO MORE. 
The Venerable Founder and the School for Little Boys both gone, these stairs in
small measure I have helped 
St. Edtvard's Hall now echo to Collegiate feet. 
November, 1933

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
known. It was the Philopatrian Soc­iety, which held weekly meetings in a class room on the third floor of Carroll Hall, gave costume plays (usually Shakespeare) in Washing­ton Hall, two or three times a year, and culminated its activities with an annual picnic at which mellow old Brother Cyprian, its guiding light, would pontificate in a cap and tight jersey sweater which set off his de­lightful (in those days) embonpoint. Brother Just, the apple-cheeked, was rector, assisted by Brother Maur­ilius, who ruled the recreation room like the wrath of God, Brother Aloy­sius, who governed the campus and the old athletic locker-room, and Brother Louis. UnoiBcial mentors were a group of young priests, filled with the enthusiasm of youth, the inspiration of their recent ordination, and the natural sympathy for boys vfUh which their rare natures en­dowed them—Father Charles O'Don­nell, now your revered president, but then just a classy handball player and horseshoe sharpshooter; Father Cornelius Hagerty, now a profound philosopher, then. a rough-houser, a tough opponent in a soccer game, and a pacemaker on "rec-day" hikes, who would walk your legs off; Father Tom Burke, who must have kept poor old Brother Leopold poor as well as fran­tic, as he helped himself to candy to pass out among the boys; Father Ernest Davis, now the quiet chemist, then a chaplain whose study was the headquarters of that riotous little group the "Sing-Sing Seven," and coach of a basketball team on which I played with "Chick" Bader, later a varsity man, as teammate; and 
\ Brother Alban, a character as lovely j as any out of Tom Playfair or ! Percy Wynn. 
Notre Dame in those days was more self-contained, less sophisti­cated, less modernistic. Town was farther away and had less to offer, and we were content with simpler things upon the campus. I can recall the epic handball -games in which Fathers Pat Carroll, Con Hagerty and Charley O'Donnell and others would meet, as racy, •n-ild and thrill­ing as a Donnybrook Fair. 
The custom of daily Communion at Notre Dame was bom in the Carroll Hall of those days. We organized the Eucharistic Society and held our meetings in the Philopatrian room, which was just around the comer of the hall from Father Pat Carroll. These gatherings were a trifle wilder than those of the Philopatrian, enough so that Father Carroll's Irish bull about the "Anarchistic" Society was very apropos. I imagine he did little concentrating on those meeting-evenings ; surely none at all the night that Father Hagerty gave his famous sermon in denunciation of swearing, which started out: "As hot as h—1, as 
J 

cold as h—^1, as high as h—1, as low as h—^1, as far as h—^1, etc." 
We Carrollites had a beautiful little chapel of our own on the fourth floor of the main building. I can still recall the retreat sermons I heard there. We had some notable retreat-masters, but then too they had mar­velous material to work on. Those boyish hearts of the early 'teens in the days before the world war were plastic moulds. Father McNamara, whose ghost stories at the military camp at Bankson lake I still recall, was perhaps the most effective. His sermon on death and eternity, ivith a bird returning every million years to peck at a stone as large as the world, and the wrath of a justly offended God looming over all, was a thing to shake the most indifferent boy. 
In those days, in rainy or incle­ment weather, a Carrollite need not leave the main building for days on end. His dormitories were on the third and fourth floors, his wash­rooms and refectory in the basement 
(ground level), his study hall on the first, and his classrooms all in the same building. We even had there the magnificent' old library (whose books I helped move to the present building) stretching clear across the front of the main building, in a fine arched two-story room starting on the fifth floor, ^vith balconies running around to give access to the tower­ing shelves. 
Discipline for boys is necessarily different from that for college men. To leave the campus was so rare an event that to be "campused" would hav e been meaningless. Brother Maurilius kept order with a switch and a strong right arm, in the rec­reation room under Washington Hall, but as an ordinary thing the usual punishment was "lines." I f yo u "skived" a class, you remained in the studyhall the next recreation day and copied 500 lines of the Scholastic in pen and ink. I can recall the some­what unusual situation of copying some of my own stuff, for I combined a precocity in writing with some of the commoner delinquencies of boy­hood. 
Adventures which attract boys are sometimes incomprehensible to those a little older, so the blase collegians of today would doubtless marvel to know how industriously we Carroll­ites explored every nook and cranny of the Notre Dame of our day.. We burrowed endlessly in the tunnels underground and under buildings where ran the heating system and piping; we climbed tirelessly through the maze of ironwork framing the dome, to emerge smeared with grime and coated with cobwebs, in the rare ozone at the very feet of Our Lady's statute; we scrambled like monkeys around the leaden gutter of the main building five or six stories above the ground—^there were few locks which foiled us as we returned from our (to be honest) rare night "skives" into town, but if we were momentarily barred from our own hall, we non­chalantly second-storied our way into the infirmary and slept ujitil the tinkle of approaching glasses of "salts" bade us escape. We stole apples from the storage rooms north of the main building, and buns and cookies from the bakeshop, and we knew where the wine cellars were, but were not interested. 
In those days we had all day Thurs­day off, and class all day Saturday. That proved a pleasant arrangement, as a home football game meant an extra half holiday, and we hugged ourselves over the realization of this for several years until the faculty awoke and made Saturday afternoon free instead of Thursday. On our "rec-days" we seldom thought of town; pocket money in that era was a matter of a quarter or two a week, and even if one rode only into town for a nickel, and saw the "Perils of Pauline" for a nickel at the movie, and "got a ham sandwich and a cup of coffee and a piece of pie all for 
v/fifteen cents at "Mikes," that meant the bottom of the purse and a walk home. So we usually took walks into the country, to eat and drink pie or cake, coffee or milk at Haney's, with those vanished, unspoiled appetites of youth. Our direst villanies consisted of a rare essay at the slot machine in the country store, or the purchase and smuggling back to school of a pipe and a nickel tin of what we familiarly referred to as our "P.A." 
In the Winter, it was an occasional stupendous treat to organize a sleigh­ride, and drive out to Haney's for a chicken supper, perhaps celebrating the close of our intra-hall league foot­ball season. Anyone who has not heard Father Con Hagerty, stimu­lated by a lively sleighride under the winter stars, heartened by a dinner such as only Haney's could prepare, and inspired by the fellowship of the jolliest boys one could ever want to know, recite "Touissant L'Overture," has missed something vital and warm­ing from his life. 
On one such sleighride, which took us by way of variety, to the splendors of a private dining room in the Hotel Mishawaka, th e famous "Lifer's Club" was bom. We felt that we were experiencing a phase of Notre Dame.life which was imusual; which in the nature of things was a passing, rather than a permanent condition; so we organized a group to which only those who had spent five years at Notre Dame were eligible. Those 
(See Opposite Pase) 

November, 1933 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
N.D. Priest Receives N.C.CM. Appointment 
Rev. E. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., '16, Chosen to Head Catholic Youth Bureau Under Direction of National Council of 
Catholic Men; Reward of Years of Activity in this Field. 
One of the most significant recog­nitions of Notre Dame's contribution to the development of Catholic youth and connections \vith the current programs in that field came with the announcement of the formation of a Catholic Youth Bureau by the Na­tional Council of Catholic Men, meet­ing in Chicago Oct. 23-25, and the appointment of Rev. E. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C, '16, to head this Bureau. 
The Bureau will be located at the 

N. C. C. M. headquarters, Washing­ton, D.C., and will be a clearing house for activities pertaining to Catholic youth. It is designed to stimulate and supplement, but not to supplant, the various Catholic agen­cies already in the field. 
Father Mooney will assume charge of the Bureau immediately. 
Notre Dame men are familiar with the splendid record of Father Mooney which has merited this national rec­ognition. 
A native of Scottdale, Pa., he pre­pared at St. Vincent College, Latrobe, Pa., and was graduated from the law school of the University in 1916. He was admitted to the Indiana Bar the same year while doing graduate study at Notre Dame. 
Deciding upon the religious voca­tion, he was ordained to the priest­hood in the Congregation of Holy Cross in June 1923, receiving his 
M.A. from Catholic University at that time. Father Mooney's major was sociology and his minor educa­tion, which he has since supplemented ^vith graduate work in education at Columbia in New York, and the U. of Minnesota. Academically he is well equipped for his new duties. 
His personality is one which should win completely the Catholic youth with whom his work will obviously bring hira in contact. 
He was active in school publica­tions, acting as business manager of the Dome in 1916. He won a mono­gram in baseball and is one of the most ardent baseball fans. He was Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Council, K. of C. and a colonel of the cadet corps which existed on the campus at that time. 
Going to St. Edward's University after his ordination. Father Mooney was intensely interested and active in the boys programs in Texas, scout­ing, the K. of C. boy life project, etc. 
Father Mooney returned to Notre Dame to serve as head of the depart­ment of physical education, succeed­ing K. K. Rockne, '14, in this posi­tion. This work brought him the ex-
REV. E . VINCE.VT MOONEY, C.S.C, '16 
Will co-ordinate the vital program of Catholic Youth. 
periences as head of the intra-mural program of athletics, and numerous contacts with boys and their activi­ties. 
For two years Father Mooney was principal of the military academy of the College of St. Thomas, returning from there to St. Edward's, from which he came this fall to assume the new duties of the N. C. C. M. bureau. 
The N. C. C. M. undertook the new bureau as a result of a number of considerations. The White House Conference Committee recommended that there be clearing houses estab­lished for all youth agencies in this country. The need in the Catholic field was ob\-ious. The N. C. W. C, through the N. C. C. M., was the logical agency to establish such a bureau. 
The bureau is designed to provide: 

1.
 Interchange of information and service. 

2.
 Clearing house of information re­


garding activities of Catholic agen­cies in this special field. 
3. Unity, cooperation and coordina­tion among clergy and laity, as well as existing approved and cooperat­ing agencies (Catholic and non-Catholic.) 
4.
 More effective efforts on the part of existiing Catholic lay organiza­tions. 

5.
 Participation through Catholic lay activity in local, state and national youth programs and committees and parochial and diocesan pro­grams and movements. 

6.
 A better understanding and a Avider appreciation of the principles and teachings of the Catholic Church and its relation to the Youth of America. 


Father Mooney addressed the An­nual Convention of the N. C. C. M. in Chicago on Oct. 24, and on Oct. 25, through the courtesy of the National Broadcasting Company, spoke over their Blue Network. 
Confessions O f A "Lifer'' 
(Continued from Previous Page) 

were the days when Willie Cotter, as manager of athletics, could look back across his college years, across his high school days, into the era when the good nuns of St. Edward's prob­ably held his handkerchief for him and said "Now Willie, blow hard." 
If I may be permitted to chronicle a few more "I-I-I's" in the Theodore Roosevelt manner, I named the club, and was honored by its first presi­dency. Of those who were in the group I recall gallant Norm fiarry, who later carried on for Gipp in that old Indiana game; Everett "Arch" Blackman, war officer and vice-presi­dent of the 1919 seniors; Clarence "Chick" Bader, varsity basketbaUer; Frank "Abie" Lockard, another old general • of the gridiron; Barrett "Dolly" Anderson, my irrepressible, lovable, musical roommate in the old Sorin subway; and Andy Moynihan, of the incorrigible artistic tempera­ment, who announced that he needed a change, after ten years at Notre Dame, and went off to Georgetown, only to reappear the next session. It was he who characteristically studied imtil dawn for an examination, and then dozed off and slept right through the quiz period. 
Well, the above tells something of the "Lifer's aub" and of a few other memories I recall; if it is useful you are welcome to it, and if I can get in the mood again, and can produce anything more, I'll send it on. 
By Joseph L. Apodaca, '30 
Intbuctor in Economics, Univ. Faculty 



A VIEW OF INFLATION 
Economic changes almost inevitably 
bring about gains to some persons 
and losses to others. From these 

changes arise economic problems, 
some old and others new. The old 
ones seem to spring forward now and 

then from their temporary retire­
ment, while the new ones arise from 
new circumstances and conditions. 
The monetary problem belongs to the 
former class. Except for temporary 
periods of comparative prosperity, it 
is a problem faced by America since 
the early days of our national exist­
ence, when Alexander Hamilton, in 
1793, embarked us on a bimetallic 
standard, with gold and silver as 
standard monies. Since then this 
problem has been associated in one 
way or another with every one of 
the thirteen major depressions ex­
perienced by the United States. To­
day it occupies once more the center 
of attention, as groups in most walks 
of life inquire about the future of the 
American dollar. News is read with 
unusual avidity; developments are 
observed with the keenest interest. 
A three-fold indictment comes to 

light as we analyze the arguments 
advanced by the critics of the gold 
standard. The instability of gold as 
a medium of exchange; the failure 
of the world's gold supply to increase 
sufficiently in relation to monetary 
needs, and the maldistribution of the 
world's gold are said to be cardinal 
factors contributing to our present 
monetary disturbances. 
The first of the foregoing defects is a matter of common knowledge. Al­though since 1873 the American dol­lar had been backed by a fixed weight of gold, and although a dollar in cur­rency could always be exchanged for that fixed weight—23.22 grains—of pure gold, the purchasing power of the dollar has varied inversely with the price level and hence has not been the same from one period to another. The erratic fluctuations in the pur­chasing power of the dollar can well be appreciated by a study of price history. This is a defect of our dol­lar that we have always had to con­tend with, and it constitutes the long­time monetary problem. 
Decreasing gold production in re­lation to the world's monetary needs, particularly since 1922, has been the source of considerable alarm. Both the Genoa Economic Conference of 1922 and the League of Nations, in 1930, reported a decreasing supply of gold in relation to output of commod­ities. Between 1923 and 1929 it is estimated that industrial production of other commodities than gold in­creased three per cent yearly, while the output of gold increased on the average of 1.5 per cent yer year. As a result it is believed that primary money failed to increase sufficiently in most countries to provide support for adequate purchasing power for consumption, so serious price reces­sions began in Europe as early as 1927. The common use of credit in the United States, where credit money increased by over three billion dollars between 1921 and 1929, is believed to have delayed the fall in prices in this country. 
The early European price declines were intensified, according to some authorities, by the maldistribution of the world's gold—a result of signifi­cant economic changes wrought by the World War. The United States changed from a debtor to a creditor nation in consequence of war-time loans and a favorable balance of trade during and after the war. Mon­etary disturbances in warring nations caused gold to flow here for safety. India changed from a silver to a gold standard in 1926, stimulating the drain of gold from Western Europe and ruining the silver market. Eng­land's peculiar monetary troubles fol­lowing her re-adoption of the gold standard in 1925 caused a deflation in that country that started a flow of gold from there which reached its climax in September, 1931, when Eng­land was again forced to forego the gold standard. Consequently, by No­vember of 1931, 63 per cent of the world's gold (7 billion out of a total of 11 billion dollars) had found it way to France and the United States. It is believed this intensified the de­flation in Europe, the fall in prices which preceded our industrial decline 
by no less than eight months. The unprecedented deflation that followed our stock market crash of 1929 is well known to all. Briefly, it was characterized by a drope of 42 per cent in wholesale prices, and by declines of 53 per cent in industrial production and 51 per cent in farm incomes between September, 1929 and March first of this year. Debt pay­ments became increasingly difficult in the face of disappearing profits and slumping values. The wave of busi­ness foreclosures was soon followed by an unprecedented wave of bank­ruptcies which swept the entire country and was climaxed by the bank crisis of last February. Bank deposi­tors had become frightened as early as June, 1930, when runs on banks became quite noticeable. From that date the Federal Reserve Board was kept busy supplying new money to banks in order to meet depositors' demands for currency. According to reports of the Federal Reserve Sys­
tem, currency issues increased by over two billion dollars from January, 1930, to March, 1933, while bank de­deposits decreased thirteen billion dollars. 
Demands for currency on the part of depositors continued as long as they had confidence in the govern­ment. But in the fall of 1931 this confidence began to wane. England abolished the gold standard in Sep­tember, 1931, and rumors immed­iately spread in Europe to the effect that the United States would follow suit. Confidence in monetary stability had been destroyed in nearly all European countries as a result of their post-war experience; so Euro­peans apparently concluded that the jVmerican dollar, too, would take cog­nizance of the ravages of the war. Accordingly, European banks and in­vestors began to sell their American securities and to withdraw their funds in the form of gold. Such an action precipitated a huge outflow of gold in exchange for their deposits and currency, and this run on gold became serious at the outset of the present year, as is evidenced by a report of the Federal Reserve Board which informs us that over $300,000,­000 in gold was paid to depositors in February, 1933. "Such conditions," reported President Roosevelt, "might well have taken from us the major part of our gold reserve and might w^ell have resulted in such further weakening of our government and private credit as to bring on actual panic and the complete stoppage of the wheels of industry." Accordingly, on March 4, President Roosevelt, act­
ing under authority derived through the war-time legislation of 1917, is­sued an Executive Order forbidding the export of gold, prohibiting the payment of gold by the Treasury and banks, and making possession of gold by individuals illegal. On that date we went off the gold standard both theoretically and practically. Our present monetary problem began! 
No radical consequences followed our abandonment of gold. People con­tinued to trade with their money just as satisfactorily as they had before. It would be a mattfer of interest to know how many thousands are not yet aware of the change. Commodity prices rose about 30 per cent between March 1 and the end of July, but it is not likely that this was caused by our demonetization of gold. More prob­able explanations of rising prices would be: the increase in purchasing power since last March, the belief that inflation would be employed, and the restoration of confidence which accompanied the new Administration. 
November, 1933 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 51 
Since last May it was feared that the vast powers relating to inflation, con­ferred on the President on May 12, would be used—a fact that probably increased the volume of trade and has helped to raise prices. The Thom­as Amendment to the Agricultural Adjustment Act, approved May 12, 1933, authorized currency expansion by the issue of United States notes to a degree not before permitted; gave the President power to devalue the gold dollar to no less than 50 per cent of its former value; authorized open market operations by the Fed­eral Reserve System to a much great­er degree than thad been permitted before, and empowered the President to accept limited amounts of silver from European countries in payment of their war debts to us. These exten­sive powers to inflate have not been used by the President to date, al­
though open market operations have been increased and a payment of $10,000,000 in silver was accepted from England. But price recessions started again last August, and since then the advocates of inflation have become insistent in their demands. This gave rise to our immediate mon­etary problem! 
President Roosevelt's radio message to the nation on Oct. 22, undoubtedly silenced the appeals for inflation and appalled the advocates of "sound money." The first were assured that direct inflation would be employed only as a last resort. The second were advised that resumption of the gold standard on a revalued dollar would come only after having restored the price level. Then the gold value of the dollar would not remain constant, as before, but would be subject to repeated change in accordance with changes in the level of prices. In other words. Prof. Irving Fisher's Commodity Dollar Plan is apparently to be tried when and if price can be restored to the desired level. Accord­ing to this plan, the amount of gold that a dollar can be redeemed in will change every time the price level changes. If prices, as measured by some generally accepted index, were 
to fall four per cent, the weight of gold purchaseable with a dollar would fall by a similar amount. If prices were to rise, the weight of the gold dollar would be increased accordingly. The object of this is to provide a dollar with a stable purchasing pow­er and thus solve the long-time prob­lem of unstable money mentioned in a preceding paragraph. It should be observed that the adoption of this plan will present many practical diffi­culties. Disturbances to international trade will very likely result, since there will no longer be a fixed gold parity between our currency and that of other countries. It is reasonable to expect that repeated changes in the gold content of the dollar will encour­
age speculation. A satisfactory, gen­erally accepted commodity index will be difficult, perhaps impossible to es­tablish. These are but a few of the more serious difficulties. 
But before adopting the "managed dollar," President Roosevelt's object­ive is to "restore the price level," pre­sumably to the 1926 level. His assur­ance is that "if we cannot do it one way, we will do it another. Do it we will." It is highly improbable that a price level approximating that of 1926 can be reached in the near future, for that would imply a volume of trade that would be almost twice as great as the volume of today. That the public works program, the NRA and the Agricultural Adjustment Act have increased purchasing power of consumers is an acknowledged fact. But it will probably require many more projects to enhance consump­tion sufficiently so that prices will rise to the desired level. 
And if direct inflation is employed in an effort to raise prices, we dare not overlook the new problems that will confront us. If we could know when to stop the inflationary process; if we could raise prices without im­mediately decreasing substantially the purchasing power of consumers; if we could inflate without jeopardizing the credit of the government; if we could encourage lending and investing during periods of inflation, the action might not be so bad. But once prices have reached a given level, it is diifi­cult to stop inflation without causing prices to drop, since the purchasing power necessary to support them has, lagged behind. As inflation is con-'; tinued, the government's credit suf-' ' fers because cheapening the curren-; cy is almost synonymous ^vith repud-; iation of national indebtedness. 
Moreover, unless direct inflation; is •. controlled with expert caution, ii-ap^ ,• pears to be inconsistent with the pri-' mary objective of the "New Deal Pro­gram." Every significant action that the present Administration has tak ^ since last March seeks to increase the purchasing power of consumers. The Agricultural Adjustment Act at­tempts to accomplish that end by lowering the farmer's cost of produc­tion and by increasing the price of his product. The National Industrial Recovery Act attempts, among other things, to increase employment and wages. Through the public works program it is hoped to restore pur­chasing power to the present unem­ployed. The entire Roosevelt program is apparently based on the theory that industrial recovery depends upon the degree to which consumers' purchas­ing power can be increased through sound means. Inflation tends to in­crease prices and make debt payment easier, but with no assurance or like­lihood that the income of consumers will increase correspondingly and at 
the adequate time. Hence its immed­iate eSect is to lower pntehasing power—^to the detriment of the mil­lions who are now receiving starva­tion wages or are totally oat of work. This may explain why President Roosevelt has not permitted radical inflationary schemes to inteirfere with his program. Hence we cannot but-commend the President's action in trying to achieve the end of inflation —arising prices — without submitting to the evils that invariably accom­pany an inflationary program. 
Religious Bulletin's Birthday 
To the alumni of the last decade, particularly the following history of the Religions Bulletin, taken from the Bulletin itself, reflects a story that requires their personal association for its full significance. 
October 24 was the twdfth anni­versary of the Religious Bulletin. It began its humble existence on Octo­ber 24, 1921, with an issue of seven copies, intended for the six halls then in operation at the University, and the bulletin board at the car stop, for off-campus students. It was en­titled "Mission Bulletin," and its purpose was to call attention to cer­tain abuses that morning, the first day of the Mission. Other abases on the succeeding days of the Mission brought other Bulletins. 
The Mission ended, and so did the 
Bulletin. Then students began to ask for more. The present title was adopted, and j'ssues appeared two or ,tljj:^e,tlmds',a;'!yeek. Then a request AvW made f of k daily issue, and this _ demand was ^ also-met. Carbon cop­!ies jremainedlthe'fnle for three years thercaftei'; the 'mimeographing be­. gan Mily ii^ 'SeifternberJ 'i924. Even ; then,; copies TyfSre._ fuiTiisJijed for only 
•a'limited niimber'of students—^those who called at the oflice for them— and the request was made that the circulation outside the University be restricted to known friends who would understand local conditions and would see in the text the exag­gerated outlines of a caricature. 
In October, 1929, the University decided to furnish each student with a copy daily, and to mail the Bulle­tin to alumni and friends who might ask for it. The number of off-cam­pus students was large at that time, and some eight hundred copies were mailed to this group. The mailing list outside the vicinity began *p grow by leaps and bounds; today it numbers some 2,000, including more than 400 schools, in most of which it is posted or read daily by the stu­dents. 
A conservative estimate of the number of readers today is 100,000. It goes to nearly every state in the Union, and to fifteen foreign coun­tries. 

10425a 
November, 1933

V The Birthday of Brother Leopold 
Ed. Note: Having been a familiar figure on tlie campus to every livinff alumnus of Notre Dame, except tlie boys of the last two or three Qasses, and harins been a part of more lian seventy years of Notre Dame history, the followinff story of the birthday of Brother Leopold, C.S.C., has more than usual interest. It was written for the South Bend Tribune by Carl Zimmerer, South Bend, a senior in Journalism, a brother of Mark Zimmerer, '21, and Leo, ex-'24. 
In a dark, silent little room in the Community House at Notre Dame a frail, snowy-locked Brother, even on hottest summer days wrapped in a black overcoat, sits day after day, telling his beads. 
He doesn't mind the darkness be­cause he is almost totally blind; he doesn't mind the quiet because his hearing is nearly gone. 
Visitors seldom find their way to the Community House^ which lies on the hill between the twin lakes, to single out the old Brother, the oldest member in the Holy Cross Congrega­tion, and the one who has rendered, in point of time at least, the most service. No, he is almost forgotten, now; he has outlived most of his friends. 
But there are countless alumni and visitors to Notre Dame who re­member the pathetic little figure hunched over a long-toothed wooden rake, picking up leaves about the campus and carrying them off in his wheelbarrow. Four years ago his sight began to fail. Since then Brother Leopold, C.S.C. has had to lay aside his beloved rake and his wheelbarrow. '.'••; -....... 
On the feast daj? Qir;S.t'.."Ser'apWa,: martyr, he was 9,7.years old.' OVi' Sept. 3, 1836, at the tiWe when .TfeK-: as was throwing off JtKe-chafing yjAfe' of Mexico, Joseph. Kaul was borri iii a little village near 05ei!fdberg,';Q6f-; 
many . •' • • "••*'.'.: ..,'.•'• 
The second oldest child in a fam­ily of nine, he immigrated to Amer­ica with his parents when he was a boy. From New York City his fam­
^ ily removed to Philadelphia, Pa., and 
:'j.f then to Heading, Pa., where there was a large German population. He had an older sister who was a nun at St. Mary's college, and still has a younger brother, now 88, the Rev. Msgr. Pirman Kaul, of Reading. The others are all dead. 
Brother Leopold fell behind in his studies because of shifting resi­dences, so he left school to help sup­port his family. He gained employ­ment in a music store and there learned to play the violin, his favor­ite instrument. A little later he learned the printing trade. 
He first came to Notre Dame when he was 20 and entered the seminary, but soon found that he was not equipped for the priesthood, so he returned to Reading. Some few years later, though, at the advice of the Redemptorist fathers, he came back to Notre Dame and was wel­comed by Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C, the founder and iirst president of the University, with open arms when it was discovered he was a printer, for Father Sorin was anxious to found a magazine in honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
So with Brother Leopold the first printer and Father Sorin the first editor and contributor, the Ave Maria was bom. Brother Leopold has watched with great interest its gro^vth to one of the largest Catholic magazines in the country. 
He arrived at Notre Dame and was professed under the name of Brother Leopold, in the last year of the Civil War. He was rejected from war service because of a throat ail­ment. Knowing music as he did, he was soon put in charge of the little choir at Notre Dame. He taught music for some years. 
His tasks about the University during the 70 years that he has been at Notre Dame have included print­ing, teaching, and being in charge of the candy store, a job he filled for jnore than 20 years. 
, • When asked if he had ever seen a football game. Brother Leopold re­' plied, "Oh, yes, I saw one once, and I didn't care much for it. You see, the boys who worked for me in the "CaRdy- store liked to see them, so I 
•.let.them go and took care of the store myself." 
Brother Leopold was greatly in­terested to know that the beatifica­tion of his old friend, Brother Co­lumba, C.S.C, for many years Uni­versity cobbler, since deceased, is in progress in Rome. But great names fall lightly from the lips of the aged religious. Names that now are printed in texts and in histories and on tombstones he knew as men, and it was, he says, his greatest privilege to live with them and to serve them. 
He has seen and helped the Uni­versity grow from a struggling little group of priests and brothers to a flourishing, internationally recognized university. The first year he was at Notre Dame two students were granted diplomas. Last year there were more than 500. 
His only lament now is that his days of service are over. He is fear­ful lest his best may not have been good enough. His humility is tra­ditional. All his life he has thought himself only the lowliest of the low­ly, worthy only to tie latch-strings. But one has only to look into the­child-like simplicity of his face, into those faded, sightless blue eyes to catch a glimpse of an effulgence far from mundane. 
And so he sits and waits for the Lord to call him. "The good God must have forgotten me — I have been here so long," he said in a rich voice that time has robbed neither of its vigor nor of its range. 
His life is nearly concluded, he hopes. It has been a long life of selfless service. Now he is consoled by Milton's words: "They also serve who only stand and wait." 
Richard Kelly Wins Architectural Award 
Richard E. Kelly of Neenah, Wis., a senior in the Departemnt of Ar­chitecture, was winner of the Louis C Spiering Prize of ?50 for the school year 1932-33. This prize is awarded annually for the best solu­tion of the Fifth Esquisse-Esquisse or sketch, in Class "B" grade by the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design. The subject of the competition was "A City Fruit And Vegetable Market." Kelly won in a national competition with students of the leading archi­tectural schools, 199 drawings being submitted for judgment. 
In commenting on the award a member of the jury wrote, "The main points of the program were followed i. e. openness, circulation, full use of the whole space, and practical booths."—"Mr. R. E. Kelly, of the University of Notre Dame, be­sides presenting a charming, fresh water color rendering, had consid­ered all these points."—"That of Mr. 
W. L. Newberry, Alliance, Nebr., a junior, had much charm and was very suitable for a small city." In the same competition Irwin E. Sandmeier, New Carlisle, Ind., a sophomore, received a half mention. The drawings of Kelly and Newberry were published in the Bulletin of the Beaux-Arts institute of Design for July 1933.. 
In the Fourth Esquisse-Esquisse, "A Community House," the drawing of John J. Brust, Milwaukee, a soph­omore,, Newberry, and Sandmeier were each awarded a mention and published in the Bulletin for May 1933. The design of Fred E. Kel­logg, Rock Springs, Wyo., a junior, received a half mention. Another drawing published in this issue was the design of A. W. Kellogg, Rock Springs, Wyo., a sophomore, for the 
Fourth Analytique problem, "A Stone 
Shelter in a Park," his drawing re­
ceiving a first mention. 
BY 




JIM KEARNS, '34 



CAMPUS 
The month of October saw practi­cally every organization and activity on the campus get into its working stride for the year. Among those with the longest strides: 
THE BLUE CIRCLE : This year the Blue Circle, under the guiding hand of S. A. C. President George Shields, is an entirely new organization. Shields has reoragnized the group into an upperclass honor society with functions ranging from discip­linary matters to pep meetings. Thirty-five members, twenty-five sen­iors and ten juniors were named to the organization, and Reuben A. Grundeman, '34, of Merrill, Wis., was appointed chairman. Only four memberships are to be reserved an­nually for the heads of campus or­ganizations: the editors of The Scho­lastio, the Dome, Juggler, and Scrip. 
Among the first activities of the Circle was the assumption, with ap­proval of some disciplinary author­ity—of warning of individuals in an effort to preserve them in their status as students. Further moves to foster the students' interests are promised. 
THE WR.A.NGLEKS: President Arthur 
A. Sandusky, Sheridan, Wyo., '34, has brought the Wranglers into their mid-season whirl of arguments with a rush. In October they covered the worthiness of the A.B. curriculum 
(Richard J.' Ballman, '35), the ar­chitecture of tomorrow (Eugene S. Blish, '34), and launched their own pet scheme of interhall debating. 
This latter is one that should be successful. The question, "Resolved: that a Constitutional amendment making permanent the powers of the President as of July 1, 1933, should be adopted," is the one to be de­bated by the varsity teams this year. Plans are under way to have several of the interhall debates held before South Bend clubs, and the final, in­ter-league debate pi'obably will be staged at St. Mary's. Last year How­ard won the title in defeating Dillon in the final round argument. With the title goes the Lemmer Trophy for the interhall debating champion­ship. Arthur L. Korzeneski, '35, Chicago, is chairman of the activity. 
ENGINEERS: The Engineers club, President Edward Fitzsimons, '34, presiding, held its annual initiation of freshman members early in the month. In the weeks following, reg­ular meetings were held at which members of the faculty and outside speakers talked. 
The A. I. E. E. has met regularly, once staging a private radio broad­cast, once hearing Prof. Daniel Hull explain phenomena of climate. Bill Fromm, '34, Milwaukee, is chairman of the group. 
The A. S. M. E., embracing the 
mechanical engineering group, elected Joseph I. Hayes, '34, New York City, president and is well on its individu­al way. 
The ACADEMY OF SCIENCE, with one of the largest memberships in its his­tory, caused by the high number of honor students last semester, organ­ized and elected Hugh F. O'Neil, '34, Cumberland, Md., president as the society entered its seventh year of existence as an honor group for the science school. Dr. George Paff, in­structor in Histology, addressed the group at one of its first meetings. 
UNn-EKSiTY THEATRE : Professor Frank Kelly, director of the campus theatre productions, announced last week that the group would present "The Taming of thcL Shi-ew" as its first oifering of the year. The Le­land Powers' version, known as "Katherine and Petrucchio" will be used. 
THE LINNETS: The campus light musical entertainment group, organ­ized last year by Reverend Charles McAllister, C.S.C, and Prof. Joseph 
J. Casasanta, will produce another of their own brand of entertainments early in December. Last Spring they staged "The Vagabonds"; this year they will use the campus for their locale, local humor for their gags, and school figures for their personages in their first presentation, "Thanks For The Blow." 
PRESS CLUB: Dr. Cooney's charges have gone at the business of having a Press Club vnth more fervor than has been present for three years or more. Charles Heckleman, '34, Hemp­stead, L. I., is acting chairman, elec­tions having been postponed for a bit. To date three speakers have ad­dressed the group, the Reverend Francis J. Healy, editor of the Brook­lyn Tablet, C. 3. Manning, former Iowa newspaperman and at present a department store executive, and John V. Hinkel, '28, former editor of The Scholastic, and now a staff man on the New York Times. Future plans include a talk by Ralph Cannon, conductor of the "Campus Canopy," and sports expert of the Chicago 
Daily News. 
Music: The band burst forth in all its new glory at the Pittsburgh game. New uniforms, featuring the young men in great-coated splendor, were displayed for the first time. In addi­tion to the great-coats which sported small capes lined with gold wool, the uniforms consist of a double-breasted short coat of dark blue, long trousers, dark blue with a gold stripe, black shoes, gold ties, white caps, black peaked and trimmed in gold. 
The Glee Club has grown in size to a total of 95. The personnel will be cut to 75 the first of February and a month later the final cut will be made, reducing the group to the regular travelling size of forty. 
The Jugglers, totally revamped, and boasting a roster of 13 pieces, made their first dance appearance at the football dance the night of the Pitt game. The dance band is under the personal ^ving of Professor Casa­santa this year. 
The IRISH CLUB, headed by John J. O'Connor, '34, Kansas City, has moved forward to a place as one of the most active non-social clubs on the campus. Similarly, the FRENCH CLUB, George, Menard, '34, Sargents Bluff, la., glee club soloist, president, has increased its size and activity by about 1000 per cent. Fencing exliibi­tions, speeches by members, and an aaddress by the Reverend Edouard Laurin, C.S.C, topped the October activity. 
The ECONOMIC SEMINAR, again im­der the supervision of Professor Wil­liam Downey, organized for its regu­lar series of -meetings during the month. A committee of three seniors, Frank Linton, Lowell Hagan, and Charles McNichols, is in charge of arrangements for the year. 
PUBLICATIONS: Joe Degnan, West Lebanon, N. H., produced his first Juggler on the campus Oct. 18 to the unanimous acclaim of the student body. This isn't a bit of editorial back-slapping, the Juggler is really worth while, one of the best issues we've seen in some years here. 
November, 1933


ATHLETICS • 
=8y JOSEPH PETRITZ= 

In our official capacity of ALUSI­NUS football expert we now have our chance to do a lot of second guessing. To get right down to the business at hand— 
1.
 We over-estimated the Notre Dame guards and tackles. 

2.
 We didn't allow for the na­tural mistakes of sophomores. 


o. We counted on a greater dis­play of Notre Dame spirit in the first three games than we got. 
That sums it up. 

HUGH DEVORB, Right End Active and tough as a Jersey mosquito 
No one has ever made so bold as to say that "Hunk" Anderson isn't one of the greatest line coaches, if not the greatest, in America. He turned out all of the great Irish lines from 1922 until the present, with the e-xception of the 1928 and 1929 lines. 
He took the 1930 material—Kos­ky, a reserve the previous year; Cul­ver, a tackle who didn't make the travelling squad the year before; Metzger, a reserve guard; Kassis, a reserve center who was made over into a guard; Yarr, a comparatively inexperienced center, a third team man in 1929 who looked weak in the few games in which he saw action; Kurth, a sophomore ^vithout prerious college experience; and Captain Tom Conley, the only real stand-out at the beginning of the season—^he took these men and molded a nation­al championship line. 
He turned out the 1924 line. He himself made the 1919-21 lines sure of a place in the Irish hall of fame by his own fiery, rugged play. 
He gave to the Notre Dame lines­men methods of blocking that never occurred to Knute Rockne, methods which he picked up in professional football, methods upon which Rockne frowned until Anderson went in and demonsti-ated them himself in actual scrimmage against Rockne. Until he became assistant to Rockne, all the linemen knew were a shoulder block and a body block. 
Now then, there has been no criti­cism this year of the Notre Dame backs or of the ends. 
Even in the Kansas and Carnegie Tech games in which the line obvi­ously and definitely let down, Nick Lukats, .4ndy Pilney, Don Elser, Fi-ankie Gaul, and Ray Brancheau were giving all they had. Lukats, Pilney, and Elser were piling up an aggregate average of five yards a trip without the benefit of big league blocking. 
The trouble boils down chiefly to the line from tackle to tackle. Ed Krause made the mistake in 1931 of becoming a sensation as a sopho­more. Now the sensational is ex­pecteo of him in every game. If he just plays a hard, consistent game, like Ted Twomey and Al Culver, and some of the other older stars, the fans cry that he's slipping. 
Tom Roach was almost on a par vrith Joe Kurth at the end of last season. It develops now that maybe Kurth was burning out at the end of the season and that Roach is not the great football plaj'er he was be­lieved to be. As for the guards, neither Wunsch nor Pivamik was considered a stand-out last year. But somehow, the fact that they were seniors this year, led everyone, this writer included, to believe that they would just naturally follow in the line of succession of Notre Dame's fine guard traditions. They did not, however; and they are not to be cen­sured, for they are trying. 
We hadn't intended to become so personal, but now that we have men­tioned names, we may as well tell the rest of the story in justification to Messrs. Krause, Roach, Wunsch, and Pivamik. The story seems to be that they ai'e just lacking in the na­tural speed and agility that their predecessors possessed. Krause is a possible exception, for he showed as a sophomore that he has speed. It may be that he is burning out from his constant activity in football, bas­ketball, track, and baseball. 
This quartet is not entirely to blame for the poor showing made in the first three games, for there seemed to be, for some inexplicable reason, a general let-down. You could name the consistent fighter's on your fingers: Hughey Devore, Tom Gorman, Nick Lukats, Don Elser, Andy Pilney, Frankie Gaul, Ray Brancheau, Dominic Vairo, and Wayne Miller. 
The othei-s knew they were not fighting in the ti-aditional Notre Dame style, but they couldn't fathom why. Nor can we. No one ques­tions their personal courage, for they wouldn't stand up under the gi-ind of 
NICK LUKATS, Left Half Good looking and looking good. 

practice if they didn't have the nec­essary "insides." Someho w they didn't just feel up to playing foot­ball as it ought to be played. They admit it and w^onder at it as much as we do. 
As far as that goes, in losing to Pitt by two touchdowns, the men who had previously been accused of not giving their best, fought evei-y inch of the way, battling harder in the last quarter than they did in the first. But Pitt's hard, fast-charging line was sweeping them out of the way like the proverbial jack-straws in a cyclone. So it seems to boil dowTi to this—^Notre Dame guards and tackles just haven't the ability they were credited with having. 
Maybe the spark will come as the team rolls along. Our personal con­viction is that the weaknesses will still be remedied in time for Notre Dame to be a real stumbling block to the remaining teams on the schedule —Navy, Purdue , Northwestern, Southern California, and Army. 
As for the sophomores: Don Elser has joined the ranks of the great 
(Continued on Pace 59) 



Alumni Board Holds First Fall Meeting at N.D. 
Week-end of Pitt Game Sees Significant Decisions Affecting Alumni Made by Able Leaders; Prospect of Expanding 
Activity and Services of the Association Both Immediate and Good. 
President M, Harry Miller, '10; 
Past President Clarence "Pat" Man-
ion, '22, Second Vice-President Ar­
thur -Carmody, '15 (who came from 
Shreveport, La., for the meeting). 
Directors John F. O'Connell, '13, 
and Fred Steers, '11, and James E. 
Armstrong, secretary-treasurer, met 
in the Alumni Office on Sunday 
morning, Oct. 29, to discuss the af­
fairs of the Alumni Association. 
That these are tangled through 
the handicaps of finance, or lack of 
it, is not the sweetest, but the most 
persistent story ever told. 
Equally true, however, is the de­termination of the present adminis­tration to overcome the handicaps. 
Your Questionnaire For example, the Board authorized the preparation for publication, at the earliest possible date of a com­plete Alumni Directoiy. Many things have advised against this step until now, when conditions have almost reversed and strongly support the demand for such a Di­rectory. Therefor e the Questionnaires which were sent out last Spring should be returned immediately by those who have not yet returned them, as much of the information in the Directory must be obtained from them. 
Prospective Student Contacts The University asked the Board for an expression concerning co­operation in a program of contacts with prospective students largely through alumni aid. The Board authorized the Secre­tary and the President to take any advisable action to best ser\'e the in­terest of the Univei-sity and the As­sociation in this program. The ex­periment last year when the Secre­tary visited 15 Local Clubs and some 60 high schools indicated that the alumni of the University are in the most strategic position to perform this great service to the University. 
Universal Notre Dame Night 

The Board agreed upon the expan­sion of the finest institution within the Association — Universal Notre Dame Night. 
It is also agreed that the expan­sion of Club activities and the growth in numbers of the members of the Association have made the universality of the Night more diffi­cult than it was in the beginning. The possibilities of a national radio broadcast on the Night were pre­sented. While the problem of finan­cing the project is one of prime im­portance, the Board advocated that if any reasonable method could be devised, that this form of bringing to all alumni and everj- Club, to­gether with hundreds of thousands of non-Notre Dame friends, a picture of Noti-e Dame—presented to Notre Dame men, by Notre Dame men and for Notre Dame men—excels any other. 
Finances So much of the activity of the As­sociation depends upon finances, that naturally this subject occupied a great deal of time. The entire Board was unanimous in its desire to do nothing that would even appear to place a burdensome obligation upon the alumni. Nevertheless, the Board felt, as the Secretary has always felt, that the total payment of dues to date 928 out of a possible 5,900 repre­sents far more than the economic pressure. What these other reasons are, the Board wants to find out. If, as most of the members believe, it is just a lack of the asking at the psy­chological moment or a personal ap­peal, then the District Governors and the Clubs can be of distinct service. The position of the young alumni of the very recent years is fully ap­preciated and their actually substan­tial co-operation was a source of considerable encouragement to the Board. 
Principally, the thought was, if the dues of the Association could be conceived by the members to be, what they really are, just the nom­inal means of constructing the ma­chinery that will produce services and activities of great benefit and significance to Notre Dame and to Notre Dame everywhere, the pay­ment would become less of a strain throughout the fiscal year on both members and the Alumni Ofiice. 
The final decision of the Board was to ask for the support of every alumnus who can possbily give it without sacrificing too much, but to continue to extend the services of the Association to those who have felt the hea\-y hand of the depres­sion. 
Nominating Committees President Miller asked the advice of the Board concerning the nomi­nating committees for both national and District officers. It was agreed that general representation in the 
national committees was desirable, and that the advice of the District officers would be sought for District committees. This work will proceed immediately to facilitate proper con­sideration and action. 
There was of course, a unanimous expression of regret for the contin­ued ill health of the University's President, Eev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., a personal friend of all of the Board members. 
The meeting adjourned following luncheon in the University dining hails, to meet again, in all probabil­ity, the week-end of the Southern California game, Nov. 25, for a check and foUow-up of the progress of the program. 
Expressions of regret were re­ceived from Frank Walker, vice-president; Byron Kanaley, honorary president, who could not remain for the meeting; Hugh O'Donnell; Bob­by Lynch, and Frank Werner. 
Lay Trustees Meet Nov. 24 
The election of a new chairman to succeed the late Albert Eussel Ers­kine will be held by the board of lay trustees of the University of Notre Dame Friday, Nov. 24. The fall meeting of the board will be held the day before the Notre Dame-South­ern California game. 
The Board of trustees is divided into two sections, one composed of Notre Dame graduates and the other of adopted Notre Dame men. The non-alumni members are: Ed%vard N. Hurley, Chicago, 111.; Edward J. Doyle, Chicago, 111.; Fred J. Fisher, Detroit, Mich.; Miles W. O'Brien, South Bend; C. Roy McCanna, Bur­lington, Wis.; Matthew J. Carney, New York City; and James J. Phelan, Boston, Mass. 
The alunuii members and their graduating classes are: Frank E. Hering, South Bend, 98; Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Mich., '87; John 
F. Cushing, Chicago, 111., '06; Frank 
C. Walker, New York City, '09; George M. Anson, Merrill, Wis., '95; Angus D. McDonald, New York City, '00; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago, HI., '04; and John P. Murphy, Cleveland, Ohio, '12. 
Besides the election of a new chairman, a new member will prob­ably be selected to fill the member­ship of Mr. Erskine. The member­ship is for a period of six years. 

DITORIAU 

The Notre 
(With this Editorial the ALUilN'L's begins a series of presentations of the several divisions of our alumni—their distinctive character' istics, their distinctive advantages, and their respective obligations. The scries is intended to advance eonsidcrablu the activities in these various groups, to mutual advantage,i 
JE' S a Notre Dame man. You've heard that be­fore. You've heard it shouted, in triumph and admira­tion, by the students on Cartier Field. You've heard it ring for Rock in the echoing gymnasium. You've heard it in the completely different tone of prejudice, in other environments, when its inflection was an insult. You've heard it with a question mark after it. 
You are hearing it today with honest admiration, or pride, evident in the identification. It is well for us— these Notre Dame men—to consider its implications. 
We have enjoyed, for varying lengths of time, the educational facilities of a University, recognized by the best agencies of academic standardization. As many schools go,-our identification could end there. In justice, what we have paid for at Notre Dame ends with this scholastic fusion and the residence facilities its physical aspects involve; 
But how far this picture falls short from the Notre Dame man of reality. 
It misses our endowment of Confidence, a sureness based on knowledge that itself rests upon more than nine­teen hundred years of revealed truth and infallible teaching. 
It omits our enrichment by Faith, our g^rowing belief as the depth of Catholic doctrine is probed by men whose consecration to the cause is at the same time its most appealing argument. 
It does not dwell upon our concept of Courage, that begins to form in the freshman as he passes the little square First College—conjuring the image of an immacu­late barrenness, except for a little Chapel and a group of men in council, some red, some white in black robes; cold; poor; foreign; bound by an agreement formidable under much milder circumstances. 
It includes none of our Inspiration—reflections upon those events in Notre Dame's history which, from their ashes, raised greater achievement and glory; fire, com­pletely consuming all but inspiration; pestilence, decimat­ing a staif already too small; war, claiming the flower of the Order; poverty, when ends met only through economy pitifully rigid. 
It does not intimate the strength of our Traditions— 
The science of the Zahms, which opened new vistas of evolution and aviation when those sciences were far from the explored and popular stages of today,— 
The silver tongues of oratory and debate that made Notre Dame's record supreme in these fields when foot­ball was young,— 

Dame Man 
The golden pens that, with all too little time, have contributed to the enlightenment and entertainment of a widespread world of readers,— 
The brilliance of Greene, as he flashed his wireless over these grounds, when his dreams, and Marconi's, were smiled away,— 
The men and events that have breathed glamor into every brick of Washmgton Hall: drama of the best, and of the worst; comedy, conscious and unconscious; con­certs; talents of divers nature, amateur and professional, sometimes starting here with the first and moving to the world outside as the latter,— 
The sagas of our refectories, with their buns, their square-cut pies, their fearsome Friday fish, and great men hashing. 
It reckons without our Fellowship — that unity of spirit which, without fraternities, or Classes (in strong unit sense), opens doors and elicits aid and friendship with a password known to the world—"Notre Dame." 
It does not consider our Personalities—^that long line of men whose acquaintance, without their teaching, is in itself priceless: Father Sorin, for fifty years the guiding genius of Notre Dame; Father Morrissey; "Daddy" Regan; Colonel Hoynes; Profs. Lyons and Stace; Maurice Francis Egan; Brother Paul; Brother Leopold; Brother Cajetan,—and on through the roster of faculty and Order, to the same great listing in the Notre Dame of today, to the men who have taken the torch, and electrified it. 
It leaves out our Loyalty—that quality which, like mercy, benefits not only Notre Dame, to ^vhom we give it, but strengthens us who give; that quality which has produced in the Notre Dame alumnus a willingness to abide by the decisions of the Religious who guide Notre Dame, not with a blind faith, but with a reasoning respect, and a wholesome admiration for the aims and the achievements of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Notre Dame spirit, which is the usual term for the mani­festation of this relation of the Notre Dame man to Notre Dame, is one of the pleasant phenomena of Amer­ican college life—a contribution of which we can be proud, and an act of faith which has had no little effect on the morale of the administrators of the University during times that did not, even in the calm beauty of the campus, avoid their crises. 
This, then, in general is the Notre Dame alumnus— a man of Confidence, a man of Faith; a Courageous man, a man inspired; a man with glorious Traditions; a man of Friendship, and a broader Fellowship; a man who has known Great Men and been among them; a man of Loyalty to ideals, and to Notre Dame, their home. 
No wonder, then, that we are heirs to'so much more 
than the ordinary implications of academic association 
when they say of any of us,— 
"He's a Notre Dame man." 
Fr. 0*Hara Gives Valuable Advice to Notre Dame Alumni 
In First Address to Alumni in His New Capacity as Vice-President, Popular Spiritual Leader Outlines Very Practical Program; St. Joe^Valley Club Host in Official Welcome. 
Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, Prefect of Religion and Vice-Presi­dent of the University, was guest of honor at a dinner meeting of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley in the Lay Faculty Dining Room of the University Dining Halls on Wednesday night, October 18. 
This was Father O'Hara's first of­ficial address to an alumni group, and so much of what he said to the local alumni is applicable to Notre Dame men everywhere that the ALUMNUS seizes the opportunity to present the address in full. Written in that clear and inimitable vernacular that retains nevertheless a spiritual vigor and phi­losophic force, the address contains advice of merit and significance for the individual alumnus as well as the group. 
The address featured a most pleas­ant meeting, presided over by Paul Butler, president of the Club. Ed­ward J. Meehan, chairman of the board of directors, gave official wel­come to the new administrator. James 
E. Armstrong extended the felicita­tions of the national Association, both to the guest of honor and his hosts. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C. was a welcome guest of the evening. 
The musical program struck a new high in the caliber of incidental en­tertainment in the St. Joseph Valley Club's brilliant history. The Notre Dame Jugglers orchestra played an excellent program of dance and pop­ular music during the dinner. Fol­lowing the orchestra. Prof. A. E. Davis, a member of the faculty, gave a group of vocal numbers, headed by "Panis Angelicus" as a special trib­ute to Father O'Hara. Prof. Da^ns possesses a voice that is modestly and regrettably cloistered while its owner pursues the less romantic life of an instructor in finance. He was accompanied by two members of Notre Dame's faculty of music. Prof. Willard Groom, pianist, and Prof. Richard Seidel, violin. 
Father O'Hara's address follows: 
I feel like the little boy pictured in a Briggs cartoon a few years ago. He stood in the center of a stage which was vast for his nine years. Spotlights sought him out from the four points of the compass, and the seven seas. Beyond the footlights were his friends, Romans, country­men. He was about to recite "Cur­few Shall Not Ring Tonight" before the District Superintendent and the tax payers of the Seventh District. The caption was "When a Feller Needs a Friend." 
I am willing to overlook the per­sonal element in this demonstration and accept it for what it really amounts to, a token of your loyalty to the University and its spiritual ideals. I realize that some of you have been waiting a long time to take 
REV. JOHN F . O'HARA, C.S.C, '11. 
Receives inany tributes in neiv office 
a crack at me for some of the things the Bulletin has said and done during the past thirteen years, and I am wil­ling to grant you that it has been a very good crack. But behind it I can see that you are proud of the spir­itual ideals of Notre Dame, you want your University recognized as above all else the unique center of Catholic action, and 1 want to tell you that the University appreciates that sort of loyalty before anything else, because it convinces her that her work has been well done. You have caught the idea that she has wanted to im­part. 
I take this demonstration as mean­ing that you are "breaking out" with good will, "running over" ^^•ith a de­sire to do something for the school and for its present adminsitration. I" am speaking for Father O'Donnell as well as for myself when I say that this kindly enthusiasm has touched us very deeply. Father O'Donnell has asked me to tell you how grateful he is for the prayers you have offered for him and the good wishes you have communicated through those who have been allowed to see him. He ap­preciates the delicate courtesy that has respected his physician's orders and kept you from calling on him since you knew that too many calls would retard his recovery. The evi­dences of your activity in his behalf and the help you have given the ad­ministration have been communicated to him regularly, and the good will evidenced by these tokens of loyalty has aided towards his recovery. I am sure that you will all be glad to hear that he is still the active directing force at Notre Dame, and that since his return to the University in August 
he has made every executive decision of importance. I know that you will be glad to have this evidence that al­though he is for the time being crip­pled in body, he is able to face these mental tasks without a tremor. 
And now I take it that you want me to tell you what you can do for 
. Notre Dame. I will give my answer under three points, all of which will come under the general injunction. Be a good Notre Dame man. The three sub-divisions are: 
1.
 Be courteous 

2.
 Be loyal 

3.
 Be Catholic 


On today's Religious Bulletin you will find a good example of the cour­tesy to which I refer. It came in a letter to the President the other day which read as follows: 
"About two weeks ago it was my privilege to visit your school and I want to take this opportunity to express my ap­preciation for the many cour­tesies shown me. 
"This summer I have visited several of our best known uni­versities but I have yet to find one which takes the interest in visitors that Notre Dame does. Not just the willingness, but the apparent eagerness with which the guide answered all questions together with his thorough knowledge of the history and background of the University, made my visit one • which 1 shall always remem­ber. 
"Please accept my humble and sincere compliments on your splendid guide service, and my best wishes for the continued and well merited success of your school. 
Respectfully yours, " 

We are glad to get letters like that because they indicate that the Notre Dame idea permeates throughout the institution. We have always wanted Notre Dame to be a great famOy, a sort of glorified Holy Family, after the manner of the Benedictine mon­asteries of the Middle Ages, which 
58 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNDS 
made of hospitality a cardinal vir­tue. You want strangers to feel per­fectly at home when you take them into the bosom of your family; we don't want anyone to feel that he is a stranger at Notre Dame. I am glad to say that the student guides who were engaged this summer in show­ing through the grounds the World's Fair visitors who stopped off to see Notre Dame — there were at least 150,000 of them—did their duty verj­well. We had three or four com­plaints during the summer of lack of courtesy on the part of the guides. We don't like to have three or four, but such a percentage of failure is not a bad record in a world which is confessing failure on a good many scores at the present time. 
Within the last week I had a letter from a delegate to the Catholic Char­ities Meeting in New York who at­tended the banquet at the Hotel Astor at which President Roosevelt gave his stirring address. The letter related an incident which occurred at the banquet. It stated that an old man was taken suddenly ill at the banquet board, and that the unpleasant con­sequences of his nausea caused con­sternation in the ranks of the stuffed shirts and the silken gowns in his immediate neighborhood. The letter goes on to relate that a young man seated a few tables away saw what was going on, arose and excused him­self, and went to minister to the stricken gentleman, using his napkin to remove the e'l'idences of the gen­tleman's plight, and superintending the work of the servants in rehabili­tating the scene of disaster. My cor­respondent said that the Charities Conference saw in this gentle act of charity the nicest evidence of Chris­tian spirit that the Conference brought out, and added, "The name of the young man is John Quincy Adams, his address is Montclair, New Jersey, and he is a graduate of Notre Dame University, class of 1926." 
Courtesy means everything in the establishment of good will for Notre Dame. We have so much good will that sometimes there is a temptation to presume upon it. But when we say, "Lead us not into temptation," let us have in mind special protection against this sort of temptation. Our actions reflect credit or discredit on every social unit with which we are associated, and we hope that no Notre Dame man will ever forget himself in this regard. 
Loyalty: I am almost afraid to speak of loyalty. The mention of the word seems to suggest an imputation of possible disloyalty, and I would hate to have such an imputation read into my remarks to the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley. Loy­alty to Notre Dame is really a sort of religion—often even a fanaticism 
—not only on the part of our own Alumni and students, but among mil­lions of people who have never set eyes on the golden dome. There is something so touching, so inspiring in this devotion of outsiders to every­thing that bears the touch of Notre Dame, that it has almost a sacra­mental value. I heard an interesting incident of this loyaltj' the other eve­ning from a certain Monsignor in Chicago. He is.pastor of a large par­ish, and told me that in the evening following the Kansas game he was standing on the steps of his church after he came out of the confessional, visiting with his parishioners, when he saw an old lady of 75 coming down the steps. He asked her, "What on earth are you doing out at this hour of the night?" And she replied "Father, I tell you how it is. I got so mad listening to that radio this afternoon that I had to go to confes­sion." That is the tender sacramental loyalty that is the exclusive property of the millions of Notre Dame fans who feel that somehow a defeat for the Notre Dame football team im­pairs in some measure the infallibility of the Catholic Church. 
In other words, we are on the spot. I have told you that I resent any im­plications that I am imputing disloy­alty to our St. Joseph Valley fans. What I want to suggest, however, is that you give wise direction to your loyalty. You know what a sense of proprietorship comes to every student the first week he is at Notre Dame. If you cut a limb off a tree, the Fi'eshmen •will write letters to the Scholastic and send a committee to the President about it. "That's our campus you are tampering with, that's our tree." I know that once you are bitten by that bug you never get over it. You feel very free to criticize within your own family; all I want to suggest that is when you confess to John Sweeney down at the Oliver, you make sure that it is be­hind closed doors. There might be a traveling salesman in the neighbor­hood who will hear you, and before another week rolls by we will have an air mail letter from Los Angeles stating that they understood that the University has just "pulled another boner." 
Speaking for the administration, I want to tell you that I shall be tickled to death to receive any and all sug­gestions on how to run the Univer­sity, the barber shop, and the steam plant, because what I don't know about those things would fill volumes, and my private view of executive work is that it consists largely in the ability to recognize and the courage to carry out some other fellow's sound suggestion. I have no particu­lar ambition to be a big shot, but I want to do the best I can for Notre Dame, and I believe that a frank ac­knowledgment of my own shortcom­ings will lead some of you who have real ideas to trot them out and leave it to us to pass on them. I am per­fectly willing to take the rap if the ideas are not so good; and if the pub­lic will let me, I will share the credit for the ideas that work. 
Be thoroughly Catholic. I don't care whether you are a Methodist, a Jew, or an agnostic, if you have come to Notre Dame and taken part in the life there, it must be because you be­lieve in the Catholic philosophy of 
.life, whether or not your conscience will allow you to subscribe to the dogmatic truths which back up that philosophy. Some years ago a Prot­estant student came to Notre Dame from a Protestant denominational college. He had left this college, he said, because he had been unable to subscribe to its materialistic philoso­phy. When he protested to the presi­dent of the college, a Methodist min­ister, the president gave him the ad­vice. "I wish that we would give you the kind of philosophy you want, but we can't. It's the hardest thing in the world to find a professor of philoso­phy nowadays who is not tinged ^\^th 

f' materialism. If you want the kind of philosophy I got in school, and you seem to want it, I would advise you to transfer to Notre Dame. That's where I got mine." The student made a good record at Notre Dame. He was satisfied with his course, and he is still a Protestant who does a good job of working out Scholastic philosophy in his life. 
I don't see any reason in the world why South Bend and its neighboring cities are not the foremost centers of Catholic .A.ction in the United States. Graduates and old students of Notre Dame constitute a vei-y large propor­tion of the cultured element of this valley. If you men could only real­ize how important it is for you to stir up within you the principles you were taught at school, what an op­portunity you have to make these principles known to your fellow-men, what a magnificent thing it would be for you to fight to have these prin­ciples rule in business and industry and the professional life of this val­ley, nothing could stop this center from taking its place as an absolute stronghold of Catholic -'Action. 
The world is listening for a solu­tion to its woes. Materialism has de­feated its own ends. Those who have violated economic laws have learned that these laws inevitably work themselves out. Those who have tried to keep for themselves not only the lion's share of produce, but the mouse's share as well, have found 
(Continued on Pace 63) 

ATHLETICS 
(Continued from Fase 54) 

competitors of all time in the short space of four games. Every punt he has made has been good, with the exception of one in the Pitt game which was partially blocked and on which he was roughed. He has aver­aged nearly five yards a trip with the ball. He has made far fewer mistakes than are normally expected of a sophomore. 
Andy Pilney has shown flashes of brilliancy, running with the speed and abandon of a gi-eat competitor. He has made a few mistakes in judgment, running past his interfer­ence, cutting the wTong way, getting to the line of scrimmage before his interference was foi-med. But these are mistakes of over-anxiety, and you can't blame a kid who's trying. 
Frankie Gaul and Tony Mazziotti were put in a tougher spot than any quarterbacks in past Notre Dame history, that of giving orders to sen­iors. They have done it authorita­tively without arousing a shadow of resentment. Gaul, having played in three games, has stamped himself a smart, hard-blocking, inspiring lead­er who doesn't make the same mis­take twice. Mazziotti's mistakes in his first college game against Pitt were negligible. 
Mike Layden and Johnny Young, right halfbacks, performed like old timers in the Pitt game. Waj-ne Jlillner, left end; Marty Peters, right end; and Johnny Michuta and Ken Stilley, tackles, have given excellent account of themselves when the op­portunity offered itself. 
The reaction of those close to the Notre Dame situation is manifestly this: the team looked better in losing to Pittsburgh by tivo touchdo^vns than it did in the first three games. 
The first three games, especially those \rith Kansas and Carnegie Tech, were disappointing. But they are past. The team is not yet as good as people thought it would be a week before the Kansas game. 
But it's coming, and I'll risk what morsel of reputation I have left on the prediction that Notre Dame is going to be a tough team to beat the rest of the way. 
It is almost needless to tell alumni of Notre Dame that "Hunk" Ander­son is not fired yet, that he won't be fired in mid-season, and that certain­ly no decision •i^ill be made until the end of the season. 
You will do well to continue the fine example you have set for others in disregarding the ambush shots of sensation seekers and writers. You have had your model set in the fine writings of such men as Lawrence Perry, Bill Coram, Warren Brown, Alan Gould, and others who said, in effect, "Give the man a chance. He certainly can't do his best work if distracted by the kick-him-when-he's­down statements of the board of strategy, late of California, now of New York." 
You know that Notre Dame offi­cials do not make changes very of­ten. And when the changes are made, it's only after all the evidence has been weighed. 
For purposes of record, here are the scores of the first four games: 
Notre Dame, 0; Kansas, 0. 
Notre Dame, 12; Indiana, 2. 
Carnegie Tech, 7; Notre Dame, 0. 
Pittsburgh, 14; Notre Dame, 0. 
Greeley Writes The "S un 
The ALUMXUS reprints herewith one of those striking lessons-in-fact of what good the informed and active alumnus can do Notre Dame. Joe Greeley deserves even more praise be­caause in the Boy Guidance course which gave him his M.A. in '27, he had less time in which to obser\-e these fundamental things of Notre Dame. The following letter from Joe appeared in "For the Game's Sake," Lawrence Perry's column in the New York Su7L, Sept. 9. 
Joseph Greeley, M.A., Notre Dame '27, writes the following letter con­cerning a phase of athletics at Notre Dame, of which too little has been spoken. His views are especially val­uable inasmuch as he has attended four other universities as underclass­man and postgraduate, viz, Villanova, Catholic University, University of Louisville and New York University. 
"Allow me," he writes, "to con­gratulate you on your timely and un­unusually penertating articles on Eockne in the Sun. I used to be an official in the great inter-hall system of athletics at this university and made a particular study of the sub­ject. 
_"As you probably know—but I have never seen it in print—the inter-hall system of which we hear so much about today began at Notre Dame more than 50 years ago. This sys­tem from its inception covered not only football, as most Easterners think, but it covered track, baseball, s^vimming, as well as basketball, and such purely academic subjects as writing and debating. It has grown and been perfected through the years. 
"Thus Notre Dame has made one very lasting contribution to sports in America by its pioneering and devel­opment of the inter-hall system, now being developed in the East. It has always puzzled me why mention of this all-around pioneering has never appeared in print, and I suppose it is due to no other reason than the fact that the subject is not generally known. Of course. Rock embellished it and rounded it out to a state of unparalleled efficiency. 
"After the 'Columbia incident* heard Rock state to a noon-day foot­ball class: 'There is no place I would rather coach than at Notre Dame. The campus is free from the femi­nine influence, no fraternities, and the sense of fellowship is unap­proached.' 
"As a post-graduate, the first and most lasting thing which struck me was that everybody in the student body of 3,000 spoke to the other fel­low. It was indigenous; no sign told you to speak; nobody preached; it was natural. 
"I have given the current literature on Rock much thought. He was more than a mere director of ath­letics at Notre Dame. He exerted more influence on the youngsters of our country in an educational and popular sportsmanship way, uncon­sciously, than any man of his time." 

CAMPUS 

•Scrip will make its first quarterly appearance Nov. 17. The Dome is moving through the photographic stage, junior pictures started Oct. 9, finished last week, and seniors were to start posing Nov. 3. The Scholastic has come out six times, just as faith­fully, apparently, when the editor is in the infirmary or in Bloomington. 
The BOOKMEN- and the PATRICIANS, taking care of extra-class literary and classical interests, are fully' or­ganized. Professor Camille McCole spoke to the former group at its first meeting, new books have been pur­chased for the club's library, and new members admitted. Librarian Paul Byrne addressed the secona meeting of the club on the history and the art of many famous tapestries on dis­play in the University library. 
President Richard J. Ballman, Mil­waukee, Wis., and Secretary Ray­mond Brett of the Patricians spoke to the first two meetings of the club. Mr. John P. Turley, instructor in Latin, also addressed the group. 
DANCES: The Sophomore Cotillion, directed by general chairman, John Britton, Pamling, N. Y., and Class President Edward T. Sullivan, Mech­anicsville, N. Y., was held at the Pal­ais Royale, Friday, Oct. 27, the night before the Pitt game. Herbie Kay's orchestra furnished the music for nearly 300 couples. 
The first of the football dances, the Jugglers plajnng, was sponsored by the Junior class the night after the Cotillion at the K. of C. ballroom in South BenS. 
CAPITOL DISTRICT 
I regi-et that I have not complied with all your requests, especially re­garding the monthly letter for the ALUJINUS. Our Secretary, Mr. Smith, having been called to New York City to assume greater respon­sibilities, has left me somewhat short-circuited. 
The Notre Dame Club of the Cap­tol District has not folded up. The enclosed newspaper clippings will testify to that. You can unravel the storj-I wish to tell you from them. 
It is with great sorrow that I in­form you that the father of Mr. Frank Disney has died recently. 
The home of Mr. Ronald Mc-Namee has been blessed with a charming daughter. 
Mr. Eddie Eckert has taken on the duties of his new position with the National Commercial Bank & Trust Company of Albany. 
I have discovered a Mr. Leonard 
F. Mayer of the class of 1917 telling the people of the Capitol District how to keep cool. He is handling refrigerators for the New York Pow­er & Light Corporation of Albany. 
Mr. Jack Casazza is at the present time enjoying a trip to Notre Dame and the Pitt game, and T. V. D. is holding down the Troy sector while architecting along. 
The newspaper clippings referred to is the story of the very generous and effective action of the Club, fol­lowing the suggestion of a trophy 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
for high schools as contained in a pamphlet sent to all Clubs. Head­lines and photographs accompaniel the stories in both Troy and Albany papers. The story in the Troy Record was as follows: 
"The attractive Rockne Football Trophy, donated by the Notre Dame Club of the Troy Area, in memory of the immortal Knute Rockne, Notre Dame's ace coach, has been pre­sented to Rev. John J. King, Director of Athletics of the Albany Diocese. 
"Teams of Catholic Schools in this section, including Catholic Central High and LaSalle Institute in Troy and Christian Brothers Academy, Vincentian High School and Cathe­dral High School of Albany, will compete for the trophy which will be presented to the winner at the close of the football season. 
" 'Mike' Leding, former Notre Dame football player, who is now doing graduate work at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, presented the trophy during a meeting of the Board of Governors of the local Notre Dame Club at the home of the president, Thomas V. DoUard of 200 Ninth Street. 
The first of a series of football games to be played in this league are on Saturday, Oct. 14, when the Cath­olic High will meet Vincentian at Troy, and LaSalle will play C. B. A. at Albany." 
Thomas V. DoUard. 
OREGON 
Tom McMahon is the Association's record-holder to date for bad breaks in publication. After holding out the interesting news of the Oregon Club all summer, the letter arrived one day after the last issue had gone past the stage of squeezing in more copy. But, "better late than never" finds wholesome support in the following: 
I am now ^v^iting you the news of the event that occurred on April 24th last. On that night the Notre Dame Club of Oregon met for dinner at the University Club of Portland, and elected the following officers: 
Mr. Nat McDougall, president; the writer. Secretary; Mr. Jack Naftzer, treasurer. 
An entertainment committee was 
appointed to look into the feasibility 
of extending our program to include 
other events, such as having a wom­
an's auxiliary composed of the wives 
of the club members and of having 
dances, etc. 
At the instance of President Mc­Dougall, the Club attended the com­mencement exercises at Columbia University last Jime in a body, hop­ing that we might thereby assure Father Kelly of our support in build­ing up his college. There have been no further meettings of the Club to date. 
Maurice (Clipper) Smith, '21, coach at Santa Clara, is the proud father of a baby girl bom about two weeks ago. That is about the only-news item I have for the present ex­cept that I saw^ Dan Brady, '26, and Bert Dunne here one day in the inter­est of Chevrolet Corporation. Also, while I was in Los Angeles this sum­mer I saw Dr. Al Anton, '26, 354 Murfield Road. He is doing well in the practice of medicine and still a bachelor. 
With best regards and a firm reso­lution to be more prompt. 
CHICAGO 
As usual, following last month's caustic (they tell me) substitution of a paragraph in lieu of Chicago's news, the desk is floating in tears as Bill Kearney comes through with every evidence that the Club is car­rying on with all the strength of yore. And yore, in Chicago, was strong. More than that—^the Editor with his own eyes and ears saw and heard a very creditable representa­tion of. the Club at the triple-threat ni Federation, at the Congress Hotel Oct. 25. President McNichols was on hand for a long and welcomed conference, which, not knowing that a letter from the Secretary had crossed the Editor in transit, con­cluded that news from Cook County, like taxes, was heavy enough, but delinquent. 

CAPITOL CLUB PRESENTS ROCKNE TROPHY  industrial conference of the Catholic Conference on Industrial Problems,  
Left  to  right:  John  Meehan,  Howard  Duquette,  Father  King,  Tom  the  National  Council  of  Catholic  
DoUard, Mike Leding,  Dick Walsh  and Tom  Casazza.  Men and the National Catholic Alum­ 

The maligned Secretary heaps these coals: 
"I was very sorry to disappoint you on the last ALUMNUS but it won't happen again. The Chicago Club has always been and vrill con­tinue to be helpful to Notre Dame. Summer activities have always been curtailed and that was the reason for no letter. No unusual activity—no news. 
"However, very shortly after the last ALUMNUS appeared, the offi­cers and Board of Governors of the Chicago Club met to plan the fall activities. It was a very enthusias­tic meeting. Notre Dame, its poli­cies, its men, and its officials, was the main topic of conversation, of course. All great matters of state were de­cided. 
(The Chicago Club's box seat in the Stadium will be disposed of as in former years. The law of the press forbids the ALUMNUS, which goes through the mails, to print the details of the plan, but it is familiar to Chi­eagoans and of little use to those out­side the area anyhow, so what have we got to lose, except the effort Bill Kearney put into the paragraph?) 
The day before the Kansas game Dick Hanley was our guest. In a very interesting talk he pleaded for open football and some good material for Northwestern. His speech was very interesting and very well done. The Ivory Hoom at Mandel's was too small to hold all the N. D. boys that day. 
The Chicago Club expects to have a dance here the night of the North­western game. The committee is working very hard on all the neces­sary arrangements. For your next issue I will have a complete report of the huge social success. I can guar­antee to all alumni here in Chicago on that night that the dance ^vill fur­nish all the entertainment they could ask for. We expect it to be a real 
N. D. party, alumni and students to­gether. 
Mr. Henry L. Caravati, executive secretary of the National Council of Catholic Men, Mr. Anthony Schweit­zer, regional director of the National Catholic Alumni Federation, and Rev. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C, '16, newly appointed to head the nation­als program for boys work of the 
N. C. C. M., spoke at the Chicago 
Club luncheon on Friday, Oct. 20. Jack Elder, '30, and Paul Host, '33, directors of the C. Y. 0. in Chicago, spoke at the luncheon Oct. 27. Warren Bro^vn, Jimmy Corcoran and many other notable speakers are scheduled for future luncheon meetings, under the able direction of Daniel Hilgart­ner, Jr., '17. 
CLEVELAND 

About the only thing of impor­tance that has happened in Cleveland since I last wrote is the Primary Election, and our Honorary Presi­dent, Kay T. Miller, walked off with first place. He now goes into the finals of November 7th with former Governor Harry L. Davis as his op­ponent. Of course we are all betting on and working for Ray. 
Chet Brumleve has moved in from the wilds of Rocky River and is now a neighbor of Bill Butler, one of our rising young bankers. It is ru­mored that National Sheet & Tube has agreed to struggle along while John Igoe goes out to school for the Pitt game. Bill Byrne, a new bride­groom, has gotten down to business in the Circulation Department of the Cleveland Neivs. Frank Cull is con­valescing after a recent operation. Joe Gavin is having considerable success coaching Holy Name football team, but is hampered to no little extent by the assistance of Bill Van Rooy and his two downtown Sunday morning coaches, Al Grisanti and Dick Mahoney. It is alleged that Joe Sweeney, one of our energetic young barristers, fell asleep the other day in court while waiting for one of his cases to be called. Luck­ily, a bailiff awakened him with a well-placed kick in the shins before his client got life and a day for petit larceny. Jerry Reidy is still playing nurse-maid to Brother John's young­ster instead of being on the job col­lecting our Club dues. The broker­age business is so good in these parts that Howai-d Richards went 
off and got himself married to Ger­
trude Uprichard, sister of Jim Up­
richard, '32. They are now on their 
honeymoon in Bermuda and will be 
"at home" here in Cleveland after 
November 15th. Pierre "Pete" 
Champion is cooperating ivith Presi­
dent Roosevelt 100% in the opera­
tion of his rivet works under the 
N.R.A. Jerry Sliller is losing plenty of sleep these nights trj'ing to pre­vent neighbors from stealing his "watch dog." On one of his restless nights he "visited" with Chuck Rohr at the latter's restaurant until the wee hours of the morning, and you know his oratory must have been good because chuck is a home loving individual. 
AI Nanovic, our Club's paint broker, was recently visited by his brother, a student at N. D. The air is plenty blue these days wherever Chuck Mooney happens to roam be­
cause his golf game is away off. Fritz Slackford, a very desirable and eligible bachelor, is a big shot with the Metropolitan Insurance Company and spends his time cov­ering the entire State of Ohio in the interests of that Company in a dandy cream-colored La Salle, sport model. Bill Ryan, Manager of the Stadium, was called upon to act as referee of a fist fight between two or more spirited players during the Carroll-Western Reserve football game last Saturday, but like all good generals Bill was far from the fighting zone and was unable to be found. Ted Wrocklage,'26, a high-powered sales­man for Proctor & Gamble, has come out of hibernation and is one of our most active Club members. 
Although Groung-Hog Day has long since passed, we haven't re­cently seen John Murphy, Jim Devit, Jim Dubbs,John Gleason,Jack Sonn­halter, Al Summer, Frank Mooney or Charlie Kaiser. Come on out boys, the weather is fine and Chuck Bohr's food and beer are the best in Cleveland. Al Shipacasse and Ed Blatt are still reporting at 8:30 
A.M. each day to Motor Express headquarters, assisting Bill O'Neil who recently became a proud daddy. Hope the youngster doesn't keep you awake nights, Bill, so as to in­terfere with your polo. 
We have planned several Club functions for the Fall and Winter seasons, the principal one being an elaborate, novel and something-out­of-the-ordinary Dance Party at Christmas time. The details are now being worked out and it prom­ises to be a gala affair as well as a complete social success, and an in­teresting evening is assured to all those who attend. 
J. "Pat" Canny. 
CINCINNATI 

I have been late in getting a letter off to you this month due to the fact that our first meeting was scheduled for Oct. 24. 
About 20 of the boys gathered at the Fenwick Club for an impromptu dinner and talk-fest. It was decided that we would continue to hold our monthly meetings on the First Tues­day of each month at 6:15 at the Fenwick Club. During the course of the evening naturally the topic of conversation was the University of Notre Dame Football Team. We here, in Cincinnati, do not wish to be classed as members of the down town coach association and went on record as extending our whole hearted sap-port to "Hunk" Anderson and his as­sistants, feeling sure that they will come through. The prospects at this present time are very bright in our having two special trains to leave Cincinnati on the 24th of November 
bound for South Bend to witness the Notre Dame and University of South-em California classic. I have no hes­itancy in saying that we expect to take 500 out of Cincinnati to this game. 
We are very happy to welcome some new members to the club last meeting. Mr.-John J. McMuUen who is in Cincinnati with the Kresge Co.; Mr. Kay Kneupper representing the Atlantic and Pacific Tea Co.; Mr. John Maher who is operating a very large gasoline and oil station in Cin­cinnati. 
Ed McHugh was aroimd with his usual line of chatter. Harry Crumley is practically undermining the entire structure of the Cincinnati streets putting in sewers. Nick Jansen prom­ises to follow in the footsteps of his illustrious dad, Nick Senior, in the food brokerage business. Andy Bar­ton is representing the Kellogg Com Products Co., and is flooding the town with his wares. Leo Dubois has just been promoted to manager of the Sales Department of the Fred­erick Schmidt Company, the largest Eeal Estate Company in the Central States. Botts Crowley is refereeing a few college and professional foot­ball games and is also interested in the new Cincinnati Reds Football team. Joe Morrissey continues to lead the Catholic High Schools in football. Joe promises to lead the champions for the third straight season. Bobby Hughes, our erstwhile president, is burning up the city in the stock and brokerage business. Don Dixon is associated with his dad in the study of law. Castellini Brothers are still the leads in the commission business and have taken on the distribution of the Blatz Old Heidelberg beer. He promised to send a keg to the club for their next meeting. More power to the Castellini Brothers. J. J. An­derson, Bob Cassady, John Brinker, Harold Staley, Dick Shields, Frank Lohney, George -A.ug, Joe Canary were all present at the dinner and were heard every now and then on various discussions that arose. 
All and all it was a grand old meet­ing and eventually we kicked the night into discard and sallied forth into the wee hours of the morning to our homes to take the various repri­mands of the fair sex that awaited us, meaning of course the stays-at­home. 
W. D. "Hogan" Morrissey. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
A letter from Jim Hayes says, among other things, "We expect to have a good crowd at the Navy game and there is quite a demand for tick­ets. We are dealing with the Naval authorities in Baltimore, through the courtesy of Art Haley." 
LOS ANGELES 
A card from Ed Cunningham: No 
news is good news. Nothing startling 
on the Pacific Coast. No births. No 
deaths. No marriages. No nothing. 
Will drop you a few lines in Novem­
ber. 
LOUISIANA-JnSSISSIPPI 
I have noticed that our La.-Miss. 
representative in New Orleans was 
somewhat void of club news due to 
lack of recent contact with some of 
the fellows, so I am going to inclose 
a bit which I am sure will be of in­
terest to most of the boys. 
Kermit Escudier,'32, of Lafayette, La. was married during the summer to Miss Maude Martin. Joe McKean, who has until recently been working for his father, is now associated with the Avery Salt Co., with his head­quarters in Jackson, Miss. Pat Bums, '33, Bernard Bird, '29, and John Dubussion were all visitors to Alex­andria at different intervals during the summer. Pat spent two weeks here at a local summer camp with John Barrett, while John Dubussion came down for a Pan Hellenic Dance. \ou know Dubussion is attending Louisiana State University taking law, and naturally an inter-fraternity dance would attract his attention. 
That is about all of the news I know at present. Here's hoping that the rest of the grads will be more prompt about their dues than I, so that the ALUMNUS can keep up to the standard of the last issue. 
Yours truly, 
Charles W. Crockett. 
MILWAUKEE A note comes that the officers of the Milwaukee Club now are the able 
P. Dudley Pearson, president, and Victor Woeste, secretary. More news of the 3.2 capital is promised. 
NEW YORK CITY 
Since the last issue of the ALUM­NUS there has been an increase in the numbers attending the weekly luncheon. For those that have for­gotten—the place is The Hidden Inn, 21 Ann Street, New York City, and the time, 12-2 p. m. every Tuesday. 
The response to a questionnaire sent out to find the number inter­ested in going by special train to Baltimore on Nov. 4 for the Notre Dame-Navy game was so poor that the Board of Governors decided to abandon all plans for the trip. For any of those interested there is a spe­cial week-end fare of §8.40 from New York to Baltimore and return on either the Pennsylvania or Baltimore and Ohio Railroads. 
An "Old Time Pep Meeting" was held in the New York Athletic Oub on Wednesday Night, Oct. 11, for the purpose of discussing plans for the football season. 
We were very honored to have 
Father Michael Shea, composer of the 
"Victory March," as our Guest of 
Honor that night. Father Shea gave 
a very interesting talk about the past, 
present, and future of Notre Dame. 
Although there are no definite 
plans for the night of the Notre 
Dame-Army game, it has been decided 
that the McAIpin Hotel will be our 
headquarters. The team will be stop­
ping at the McAlpin, and anyone that 
plans to be in New York for the game 
should make arrangements to cele­
brate with us on that night. 
In other years there has been a tendency for the Notre Dame Alumni to spread all over the city on that night, and we hope that this year the AJumni and their friends will all meet at the McAlpin on Dec. 2. 
J. N. "Doc" Gelson. 
ROCHESTER 
A very brief note to tell you that 
we had a meeting of the local Club 
last night and the follo\ving officers 
were elected for next year: 
Ward Schlotzer, president; Richard 
Sullivan, secretary; William Jones, 
vice-president; Arthur Curran, treas­
urer. 
Dick will probably write to you withtin a few days to give an ac­count of the meeting. It was well attended, and the boys seemed to be pretty much aroused about the fail­ure of the Club to get to first base since the Christmas Dance was lost. Hence, something might happen in these parts soon. May even have an­other meeting before Easter. 
Sorry that I cannot enclose 55 for long overdue membership fees. Per­haps I shall be in a position to make it up in the near future. 
With the kindest regards, I am 
Tom Ashe. 
RHODE ISLAND Shortly after the close of school, alumni and undergraduates of Rhode Island combined in a most successful dance at the exclusive Wanamoissett country club. Seventy-five couples was the limit set, but the demand was so grreat that more than 100 couples at­tended. It was one of the finest col­lege dances to be held in the state. Pillow tops with monograms in the center were the favors of the dance. Notre Dame songs were featured by the orchestra. At the close of the affair, Andy McMahon, president of the under­graduate club and Vincent McAloon, secretary, presented Charle s A. Grimes, '20, president of the alumni club, with a large blanket bearing in gold letters the name of the cam­pus club and the seals of the Univer­sity and of the State. The presenta­tion was made in behalf of the cam­pus club for the splendid work Pres­

THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS 
ident Grimes has done since the or­ganization of the club last January. 
The co-chairmen for the frolic were: John Brown, '31, and John Mc-Kieman, '34. Other members of the committee were: President Charles Grimes, '20; Leo McAloon, '26; Cyril Costello,'27;J. Clement Grimes, '24; Gene Moreau, '30, and Graham Nor­ton, '33; and undergraduates, Thom­as A. Sepe, John G. McClurg, John Brady and John McLaughlin, all members of the Class of '34. 
A letter from Charley Grimes brings new information: 
Scratching the old brain for sev­eral -weeks in an effort to hit upon something in the way of a November alumni meeting that is a litte diff­erent from the usual run, this after­noon I asked Eddie Anderson what he thought of an indoor football clinic similar to the one Gus Dorais held recently in Detroit. Eddie thought well of the idea. So here we go, Nov. 8. 
We plan to hire a large auditorium that is used for roller polo—^you don't know the game in South Bend—^but it is a lot like ice hockey only played with shinny sticks on roller skates. The floor we would shape off like a gridiron, have two teams of kids in uniform go through plays as they are explained by Anderson, Bill Hal­loran (intercollegiate refferee) or someone else for about an hour. Re­mainder of the entertainment we'd like to give over to Notre Dame talk­ies and movies, including, of course something colorful with Rockne in one of the shorts. 
The newspapers are all hepped and pepped up about the idea and some of us believe we can make a little money to start a scholarship fund. 
A joint dance of graduate and un­dergraduate clubs is being planned for Dec. 26 in Providence. 
On Thursday night, September 7th, we greeted the new students and the old students at an informal gathering in the home of a friend of LEO McALOON at Newport, Rhode Island. Approximately thirtj^ boys were present and VINCE PA­GAN, who was in "Little Rhody" during that particular week, was among our invited guests. Our ob­ject for this meeting was more or less to acquaint the new boys with the prevalent Notre Dame spirit. 
We also had plenty of home made sandwiches and cake along with Charlie Grimes' famous old time beverage. 
WABASH VALLEY Noble Eizer took time out from his preparations to help Notre Dame celebrate Armistice Day to write a letter as president of the Notre Dame 
Club of the Wabash Valley—quite a spot for Nobe this year on Nov. 11. 
"Most of the members of the Notre Dame Club will be watching the Notre Dame team in action this Fall, especially the Notre Dame-Purdue game. Even as president of the Club I do not believe I can persuade the members to root for Purdue on that day as all of them are one hundred per cent Notre Dame . . ." 
Father O'Hara Gives Advice to Alumni 
(Continued from Page 58) 

that the mouse cannot be a customer if his pocket is empty. 
A friend of mine was talking a few years ago to a manufacturer of sewer tile. They were both on a va­cation in Florida. The manufacturer was telling how smart he was. He hired Mexican laborers who lived in box cars. This not only enabled him to under-bid his competitors, but left him a larger margin of profit than his competitors enjoyed, and he said in self praise, "There is nothing like being a smart business man." My friend replied, "I don't see anything particularly smart about that. If everybody lived in box cars, where would you find a market for sewer tile?" The big shot replied, "You just can't talk to some people," which is true. 
President Roosevelt has had the courage to go to the Encyclicals of Leo XHI and Pius XI for the prin­ciples on which to base legislation for a way out of the depression. His courageous action has increased em­ployment and has established a mini­mum subsistence wage, if not yet a living wage. If he can have a 100 per cent backing for his plan, if the executive machinery can restrain the chiselers, the United States will find its way out of the depression and in­to the new order of things. God knows we don't want the old order back. And if the St. Joseph Valley -Mumni membership will study the Encyclicals as thoroughly as Presi­dent Roosevelt has done—^not only the Encyclicals on labor and capital, but those on education, marriage and family life, and the rest—and this membership will then use the sacramental aids towards the cour­age they need for their work, this valley can become, as I have said, 
a shining example of Catholic action. 
It's your heritage. Don't throw it away. With memories of Hennepin, Allouez, Marest, Badin, De Seille, and Sorin to stir you on, it would be tragic for you to squander your opportunity. These intrepid French missionaries chose this spot for a sanctuary of the Faith. It can be what they planned; it should be if you men take seriously the oppor­tunity that is yours right now. 
I am a strong believer in Alumni education, and I want to do every­thing I can to foster it. Every Alumnus of the University can have the daily Religions Bulletin without charge, if he wants it. Every Alum­nus can feel perfectly free to raid the _ pamphlet racks in Dillon and Sorin halls every time he feels in­tellectual or spiritual hunger. Any­one of you men can come out to Holy Communion at 11 o'clock in the morning if you want to. Father John Cavanaugh, the brunette, will be glad to minister to your spiritual wants. The opportunity is yours; don't fall aown on the job. 
r BIRTHS (Added) 
Dr. and Mrs. JAMES L WARGIN, '25, announce the arrival of a son, James Smyth, on Octtober 21st. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. BROWN, '29, Racine, Wisconsin, announce the arrival of Michael John on Oc­tober 7th. 
Right to the Stidium ... . in warm comfort 
T ET'S enjoy those football trips this 
•*-' Fall. . . or why so7 Forffet weather, 
traffic, mechanical worries. Go by warm, 
safe, dependable Greyhound bus—or bet­
ter still, charter a bus for your whole 
jolly party at amazingly little cost. 
Far FuU Information 

In Chicago—Phone Wabash 7700 In Detroit—Phone I^ayette 3420 In Qeveland—Phone Cherry 3360 
GREY/HOUND 
Mr. and Mrs. Adam F. Yochim the charcoal iron furnaces on the 
THE, have issued invitations to the mar­Marquette iron range, Mr. Dundon riage of their daughter, Thelma having become superintendent of the Louise, to HERMAN J. OHLIG-Clarksburg furnace at the age of 20 SCHLAGER, '29, which will take years, following his graduation from 
place on November 7th, at St. Brig-Notre Dame. He obtained his law 
ALUMNI 
id's Church, Louisville, Kentuckj^ 
degree from the University of Mich­
MARRIAGES 
The marriage of Miss Phyllis Marie Beyer, South Bend, and GEORGE P. HENEGHAN, '22, took place October 14, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Coe an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Regina Genevieve to LEO C. GRAF, '23, on September 7th, in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. 
Jliss Kathrj-n H. Downey and Dr. THOMAS E. LEAHY, '26, were mar­ried September 30th, at St. Philip Neri Church, Chicago, Illinois. 
Mr. and Mrs. Antonio Rizzo of Santa Monica, California, announce the marriage of their daughter, El­vira Rizzo, to ALLEN R. TRAVIS, '26, which took place September 19th, in Mishawaka, Indiana. HAROLD J. ROBERTSON, '26, of South Bend, Indiana served as best man. PETER 
M. LA CAVA, '26, Justice of the Peace, performed the ceremony. 
Mr. and Mrs. Albert K. Love an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Linda Josephine, to JOSEPH D. MONTEDONICO, '28, on August 26th, in Westminster, Maryland. 
St. Benedict's Church, Philadelphia, was the scene of the wedding of Miss Mary Melody to JOSEPH HILGER, '28, during the summer. 
The marriage of Miss Alice Hibner and RAYMOND P. DRYlLAiSKI, '29, took place on August 23, in Mil­waukee, Wisconsin. 
Miss Lucille Bemice LarHn and THOMAS J. PUECELL, '30, were married on October 28th, at Our Lady Help of Christian's Church, Chi­cago. 
The marriage of Miss Alice Rita McNamara and THOMAS F. KEN­NEALLY, '30, took place during August at the Church of St. Francis Xavier, Waterburj', Conn. JOSEPH ROBINSON, '31, served as best man, while WALTER SCHOLAND, '30, was an usher. 
Miss Mary Helen Shea and JAMES ROBERT HILGER, '32, were married on October 4th, at St. Peter and Paul Cathedral, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Paul Barth-man announce the marriage of their daughter, Louise Grant, to WILLIAM 
J. SULLIVAN, Jr., '31, on October 9th, at Dillon Hall Chapel, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
The engagement of Miss Virginia Ballweg to WILLL4M KRIEG, '29, has been announced. The wedding will take place the last of October. 
The engagement of Sliss Mary Hubbard, South Bend, Indiana, to LOUIS C. CHAPLEAU, '30, has been announced. 
JNIiss Mary Jane McDermott, Pitts­burgh, and AL F. DASCHBACH, '25, were married on October 12th in Pittsburgh. They are residing in South Bend, Indiana. 
Miss Bonnie Lou Kinlaw, of White Oak, North Carolina, and JOHN RAYMOND MURPHY, '28, were married on Sept. 25, at St. Joseph's Rectory in Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
BIRTHS 
j\Ir. and Jlrs. ARTHUR K. SULLI­VAN, '27, announce the arrival of Arthur K. Sullivan, Jr., on October 19. 
A letter from THOJLA.S H. HODG­SON, '24, tells us that he has "be­come one of the proud parents of a fine young son, now bearing the name of Thomas Kent Hodgson." 
Rev. R. W. Mun-ay, '18, gives us the following note from his brother. "Ml-, and Mrs. T. FRANK JIURRAY, '25, came under the Parents Code last June, -with the arrival of T. P., Jr. Frank is with the Acme Fast Freight, and living in St. Louis." 
Mr and Mrs. JERRY W. RAY­BURN, '28, announce the birth of a son, Jerry, Jr.,on July 4th. 
DEATHS 
THOMAS J. DUNDON, Master of Accounts, 1871, B.S., 1873, passed away at his home in Ishpeming, Mich­igan, Sept. 30th, at the age of 80. Mr. Dundon was one of the first set­tlers in Marquette County, and dean of the Marquette County Bar Asso­ciation. His Journey to Notre Dame in January, 1879, partly by rail and partly by stagecoach, together with other Notre Dame experiences related by him at a Hiawathaland Notre Dame Club meeting a few years ago were described in the ALUMNUS. 
Mr. Dundon was accountant, school teacher, iron maker, lawyer and pub­lic official. He was the most prom­inent Democrat in the Upper Penin­sula of Michigan. In the early days he and his brothers operated most of igan in 1884 and since that time de­voted himself to the practice of law, in which he was eminently successful. 
Many honors were bestowed on Mr. Dundon in his student days at Notre Dame. In 1871 he was awarded the medal for excellence in the Commer­cial Department, in 1872 and 1873 he won the medal signifying the best in the Science Department, and in 1872 and 1873 he was given the Medal of Honor, a testimonial to his scholastic attainments, athletic success and good conduct. He was a member of the ^vanning crew in the famous boat race between the Santa Maria and the Pinta, in 1873, described in a previous issue of the ALU.MNUS. Mr. Dundon assisted in the survey of the Notre Dame Farm and was secretary of the organization meeting of the Lem­monier Library of former days. 
Although he was of a retiring na­ture, an exemplar of humility, Mr. Dundon was widely known in his sec­tion of the country. Possessed of a strong physique and the fortitude that the pioneer days in the North developed in men, he was always the successful champion of the "under­dog." He was noted for his high sense of honor and integrity. 
Surviving him are his widow, for­merly Margaret Stack; Dr. John R. Dundon, Litt.B., 1914, Milwaukee; Mrs. Gait Stockly, Cleveland; Ed­ward J., Ph.B., and LL.B., 1922; George A., Milwaukee; Thomas S., Newberry, Mich.; and Margaret of Ishpeming. 
Thomas J. Dundon was buried in Holy Cross Cemetery at Marquette underneath a Celtic Cross of granite, symbolical of his character and the great love.he professed for the land of his birth and the Faith of his Fathers. 
The ALUMNUS records here with regret the sudden death in Chicago on Oct. 23 of DR. J. LEWIS BROWNE, for three years, 1923-26, director of the Notre Dame Glee Club and teacher of Gregorian music at the University. Dr. Browne, occupying in recent years, since 1928, the position of director of music in the Chicago public schools, was found dead in his bed. His work had suffered heavy curtailment through the economy measures of the Chicago school board during the last months of his life. He had introduced many innovations in the school music of Chicago and, to­gether with Dr. Frederick Stock, in­spired the children's concerts of the Chicago Symphony. Dr. Browne was a composer of music himself, and was world famous as an organist. 

CASSIUS M. PROCTOR, C.E., 1875, died suddenly on Oct. 18th in Akron, Ohio. Mr. Proctor coUapsed while walking and was taken to Peo­ples hospital where attendants believe the weakness of advancing years brought about his death. Mr. Proctor was the first graduate of the College of Engineering, and upon his gradu­ation in June 1875, he was appointed the first city engineer of Elkhart, In­diana. He was later the o^vner of the electric light plant at Elkhart, and 13 years ago moved to Akron, Ohio. 
Word has been received of the death of JOHN J. LOUGHRAN, '00, on June 19th, in Philadelphia, Pa. 
We have also received word from Levi A. Geniesse, Green Bay, Wis­consin, of the death of COLLINS FOLLETTE, '29, on July 1. His death was the result of a skull frac­ture received in an automobile acci­dent at Oconto, Wisconsin on June io. He is survived by his mfe, Mary Louise Follette, his parents, Mr. and Jlrs. C. E. Follette, and one brother, Joseph. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathies to CHARLES McDERMOTT, '27, upon the death of his father; to WILLIAM R. BELL, '25, upon the death of his father; to WILLIAM NEVILLE, '25, upon the death of his brother;to Prof. PAUL BARTHOL­OMEW, '29, upon the death of his cousin, John Kelley, ex. '29; to LOUIS MARGEE, ex. '30, upon the death of his mother; to PROF. CLARENCE E. ILAJSflON, '22, upon the death of his mother. 
PERSONALS 
Before 1880 

The Editor had the very pleasant experience of a personal visit with Judge and Mrs. THOMAS F. GAL­LAGHER and a party of their friends who stopped in South Bend Oct. 7 and 8 on their way to Chicago. A visit to the University brought them that always mingled reaction of one who has been away for long— the tremendous growth of the insti­tution, and at the same time its re­tention of those things that have been in a physical and spiritual way the essence of the campus. Judge and Mrs. Gallagher were at Notre Dame last on the brilliant occasion of the celebration of the Diamond Jubilee of the school in 1917. 
An interesting and interested vis­itor on Oct. 12 was DR. RUDOLPH 
J. MAAS, student in science at Notre Dame in 1876. Dr. Maas and his son were here for the Doctor's first visit since '76. Leaving Notre Dame he continued his medical stud­ies in Montreal. Residing now in Houghton, Mich., circumstances have never previously permitted him to return to Notre Dame. The changes since '76 are hard for any of us to conceive, since even the present Main Building is new, following the his­toric fire of '79. 
1880-1885 

It was the pleasure of the Alumni Office recently to entertain SOL M. HENOCH, Laporte, Ind., merchant. The visit was particularly pleasing because a request of Mr. Henoch's for the University Catalogues of 1882 and 1883 for DR. S. P. TERRY, Ala­meda, Calif., was fulfilled through the courtesy and co-operation of the Uni­versity Library and its librarian, PAUL BYRNE, '13. 
1894 

HUGH O'DONNELL writes that he has been very interested in meet­ing Joe Fitzgerald, son of C. C. FITZGERALD, Havana. Joe is tak­ing a course in aviation at Roosevelt Field, after completing a course at La Salle Military .-Academy. Hugh adds that the boy has already made a solo flight and is completely sold on the future of aviation. 
thenew 
BiDMrra 

1897 REV. JOHN MAC NAMAEA, by the time you read this, will have gone to Bel Air, Maryland, to reside. His mail address will be P. O. Box 64. Father Mac was on for the Indiana game, and stopped off at Mount Clem­ens for a rest in St. Joseph's Sani­torium there before returning to the East. He is, of course, looking for­ward to the convenience of his new location to the Navy game. 
1903 

DR. CHARLES J. REILLY, Thom­asville, Ga., a graduate of the Min­ims, has won considerable fame and contributed to Catholic history in this country by the compilation of a list of the .postage stamps of the world which have Catholic significance or connection. The list has been pub­lished in booklet form. 
1904 ALBER T MUNSCH, Ph.G., '04, was a visitor on the campus, with his son, Oct. 26. It was his first visit since 1905. 
1907 

One of the brilliant and significant addresses of the Fall on the campus was that delivered before the lay fac­
lAUIJi^ 

OUR own FIREPROOF CMBACE SERVES MIL THREE HOTEtS 
ALUMNI HEADQUARTERS 
Personal Attention to Notre Dame Reservation* 
J. KENNETH QUALLEY, Mgr., '27 
November, 19S3

THE NoTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
ulty club by Very REV. JAMES W. DONAHUE, C.S.C, Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
1911 Reminiscences of this period were frequent at the same meeting men­tioned above when PROF. PEDRO DE LANDER 0 introduced REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C, who, as a new member of the administration, was a guest of the faculty. 
1912 I am enclosing a copy of Father Langes letter which I received short­ly after the 20th of last month. Fath­er Lange wants to hear from the boys so please print his letter in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. 
I have also heard from HENRY I. DOCKWEILER who is back in Los Angeles practicing law in the family firm of Dockweiler & Dockweiler. After his eight years of Diplomatic Service during the last Democratic regime, I don't understand why he does not start it all over again. 
B. J. Kaiser, '12. 
Your card stating that the 20th of this month is the "dead line" for get­ting in 1912 news, reached me yester­day. It marks the first time I've ever had any kind of commutnication from any of my former classmates and I certainly appreciated it. 
Many times have I wondered where the men of 1912 are. Some I feel sure have been called to their "Etern­al Reward" God has been good to them. 
Two years ago I saw FATHER CHRISTOPHER BROOKS, C.S.C, our old classmate. He looked quite venerable with his white hair. Mis­sionary labors in Bengal India, have been very strenuous for good Father Chriss. 
During this past summer while as­sisting at St. Joseph's parish in St. Joseph, Mich., I ran across "Muggsy" CHESTER Mc GRATH who used to play fullback on the old St. Joe Hall team and later the same position on the varsity back in 1910-1911. Muggsy is proprietor of one of the iinest "Fill­ing Stations" in Southern Michigan. 
I seldom get a chance to see any old 1912 men. I wonder if there are any here in Texas. I hope so and hope they will look me up if ever near Austin. 
Since my own ordination in 1917, I have continued studies in Sciences, even graduate work, and have been teaching science classes these last ten years or more. 
I trust that your own chosen field has been both interesting and paying. Remember me to any and all of 1912 men yon happen to meet. 
Fr. B. H. B. Lange, C.S.C, Ph.D. 
1916 
TIM GALVIN and HUGH CAR­ROLL were visitors on the campus the early part of October. 
THOMAS MCLAUGHLIN, Detroit, paid a much appreciated visit to the Office during October. 
REV. E. VINCENT MOONEY, 
C.S.C. has launched a most signifi­cant program for the National Coun­cil of Catholic Men. Story in detail in this issue. 
1918 
MR. and MRS. LOUIS FOLLETT and MR. and MRS. VINCENT SWEENE Y of Pittsburgh, were among the visitors on the campus the Pitt week-end, Oct.. 28. 
1922 
From time to time this column has recorded the doings of a consid­erable number of '22 men, but due to the fact that the class secretary has not been pro\aded with an en­dowment, as yet, which would enable him to go forth and unearth some of the boys who have strayed from the travelled highways, there exists an urgent need of news from the boys in the provinces. Our moss covered files still indicate that: 
JUD HYLAN is cloistered in Penn Yan, N. Y. 
JOHN BRADY is practicing law in -A.shland, Ky. 
JOE DUFFY hopes to have bigger and better matches. Some time ago reports an'ived with the news that Joe was employed by the Diamond Match Co., at their Chico, Calif, plant. 
EMILE HILKERT lives in Phoe­nix, Ariz. We shall gladly move him on the receipt of substantiated evidence. 
PETE LISH longs to be mayor of Dickinson, N. Dak. 
EDDIE BYRNE is 'Tdng" of Nat­chez. Between visits of Captain Henry's Showboat, Eddie sells fur­niture. 
FRANK GILLIS refuses to leave Kane, Pa. BILL MURPHY divides his time between New York and East Orange, 
N.J. EDDIE ANDERSON did well to suppress Harvard on his first at­tempt as Head Coach at Holy Cross. Nice going, Eddie. — May your first year in the big league be a great one. Eddie was content to coach DePaul in Chicago while mastering a course in medicine at that univer­sity. Undoubtedly he has more foot­ball material at Holy Cross than he 
had at DePaul, and so we can look for bright news from Worcester. 
Now there is talk of having a "JIM SHAW" Day at the Century of Progress. 
G. -A.she. 
DR. JOHN H. MOHARDT an­nounces the opening of offices at 30 
N. Michigan Ave., Chicago. Johnny is specializing in surgery and diagnosis, after a splendid background as a part of the Mayo clinic. 
GENE KENNEDY, dapper as ever, moustache et al was a welcome though very transient visitor in the Office just after the last ALUMNUS went to press. Los Angeles has a good ad as the Fountain of Youth with the little change in Gene in the last decade. 
1923 From PAUL CASTNER I had the pleasure of stopping off at Notre Dame a few weeks ago and saw REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, '23, who is now established at Dillon Hall as Assistant Prefect of Religion. I had a very nice visit with him and know that the Class of '23 will be pleased to know that he is there. I have seen a number of Notre Dame men in my travels and, al­though not of the Class of '23, I know every one will be interested in the fact that I saw JIM CROWLEY and JOE BYRNE in New York last week. I had a very pleasant •I'isit with Joe as well as with Jimmie. Jimmie Crowley is, needless to say, knocking them cold on and off the football field. A short time ago I had a nice \-isit with RED SHEA on occasion of his being in South Bend to be the god­father for the youngest edition of the Castner family. My address is The White Com­pany, Cleveland, and I will appreci­ate notes from the members of the Class of '23 for the ne.xt ALUMNUS. 
1924 Thought maybe Al Smith's trip to the Fair might have kept him from pressing HAYES for the rent and something might have fluttered from the heights into the local P. 0. but no. TOM HODGSON is taking on new duties in a big way. In addition to Thomas Kent, mentioned in the Births, Tom has become affiliated with the Federal Reserve Bank in Minne­apolis, which reads betiveen the lines like a nice step ahead. 
1925 
PAUL DOOLEY and AL SLAG­GERT, '21, are members of the fac­ulty of the College of Commerce and Finance of the U. of Detroit, teaching evening classes. Paul, who is adver­tising manager for the Michigan Catholic, teaches salesmanship and domestic commerce. Al is teaching law and domestic commerce. 

1926 

The Editor was sitting at home with a miserable cold recently when the day was considerably brightened by a visit from EDDIE DUGGAN, who was driving through from New Jersey. Eddie and the always pleas­ant news from the New Jersey front put the Editor back in the swivel chair the following day. 
JOE SEXTON sends an interesting clipping from Indianapolis concerning a farewell dinner given WALTER HOUPPERT who is now in Washing­ton with offices there as attorney for the Home Loan Bank. Among the Notre Dame men present for the af­fair were ELBERT MAHONEY, MICHAEL REDDINGTON and Joe himself from '26, TOMMY O'CON­NOR, ED FRAZIER and FRANK MC CARTHY, '25, and LEO O'CON­NOR and JOHN LOFTUS of '27, with BOB 0'HAR.A, '20, dean of the 
N. D. delegation. 
1927 

ART SULLIVAN uses a conven­ient card to advise that he still handles claims in the Northwest for Royal Indemnity, working out of St. Paul. 
1928 

The "New Deal" that your Class Secretary promised in last issue is now a reality — thanks to LEO Mc-INTYRE, who proved to be a real pinch-hitter this month. The plan of picking one of the class members to write this column will be con­tinued—so, watch the column. YOU might be next. Your Secretary in real "New Deal" terminology doesn't expect a hit every time he calls a man to bat, but he is expecting a real hit, next month, one like Leo Mclntyre has given us this month, because the ball is being put over the plate to none .other than our KIRWIN J. WILLIAMS, Business Manager of the Dome of 1927. Let him hear from you before November 20th, which is the deadline for next month's issue. His address is 319 West Gramercy, San Antonio, Texas. Give him the same cooperation that you did back in 1927 when we put out the best Dome ever published, and he will come through with a real column. If you don't, well, remem­ber what we said last month. 0. K., San Antonio. 
And here is the "New Deal" from Leo: 
"Ouch! What a slap in the face Louie Buckley gave me! His hand leaped out from between the covers of the ALUMNUS and caught me flush on the mouth. Am I bleeding? Yes, with apprehension. If there's nothing in the 1928 column in the ALUMNUS this month, it's my fault! That is an indictment. 
Louie, obviously, even if he were bom close to the battleground of the Lincoln-Douglas debates in the Re­publican State of Illinois, at least for the nonce, is a Democrat. A Demo­crat, it is patent, who has gone in for the New Deal in a big way. And I don't blame him, do you? I feel we all should rally to Louie's support just as the nation has rallied to the support of President Roose­velt in his new deal. 
It hurts, however, to be the first victim. My only retort is that now being shouted from the housetops by the Republicans: "It's unconstitution­al!" As if they ever had any regard for the Constitution, knowing as we do that they have outraged the Con­stitution for twelve long years. Yes, I'm a Democrat. How did you guess it? 
But enough of this. It's resolving itself into a political tract. On with the gossip! Let's chew the rag and let the morsels fall where they may. (Would that I were just emerging from a Freshman Hall or Sorin Hall "bull session.") 
Family responsibility, the care and din of three children, have not caused ROBERT EMMETT KIRBY, gentleman from Indianapolis, to lose either his infectious smile or boyish irrepressibility. 
Our class secretary was the best-dressed and most distinguished look­ing individual who attended our five-year reunion. 
JACK MULLEN and TOM GRIF­FIN, now separated by marriage bonds and marital cares, are still roommates in spirit, if not in fact. Jack is doing very well writing radio copy for one of the country's largest advertising agencies and Tom is well placed in one of Chicago's elite law offices. Tom's stoiy of how he and 
J. J. aLAJIONEY, now residing in South Bend, pursued study in Chi­cago in order to pass the Illinois bar exams is one of the most delightful and amusing pieces of chit-chat I have ever heard. Have him tell it to you the next time you find him with several minutes to spare, which is not often. 
JOHN RAYMOND MURPHY, Hoosier, better known to the twenty­eighters, of whom he is one, as "Tailor," is married. He tasted the cup of connubial bliss for the first time about a month ago. In a letter dated October 1, he writes: "You will be surprised to know that I was married last week in Fort Wayne. A Southern girl, Bonnie Lou Kinlaw. I may have told you about her (He didn't, although during our five-year reunion week-end we did the Lem­monier Library and the walk around the lakes together). She will travel with me (He is one of the chief representatives of the Midland Press, 
Suppose four 
Notre Dame Priests 
called at your 
home today! 
What an interesting visit that would be. 
Your parents, your wives, your children would be de­lighted with their company. 
You would ask them back again. 
Well, every week there are four Notre Dame priests who visit thousands of homes all over the world through the medium of the AVE MARIA. Their names? 
Father "Gene" Burke, '06 
Father "Tom" Burke, '07 
Father P. J. Carroll, '97 
Father T. A. Lahey, '11 

Poems, essays, book reviews, fiction, a section for the chil­dren, and the world famous "Notes and Remarks" which will keep you informed, abreast of the times. 
You, too, may enjoy this dis­tinguished group of Notre Dame priests each week. 
Simply address a letter to any one of them, enclosing three dollars for a yearly sub­scription. The AVE MARIA will start the same week and for 51 weeks following. Don't put it off—do it now. 
<^he 

MveSHaria 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

1811 Prairie Avenue, Chicago.). We have a nice little apartment here (Kalamazoo, Mich.) and like it very much." He continues: 
"Suppose you knew PHALI N (The inimitable Howard V. "Howie") is with a different book company. He's doing quite well. He wrote me re­cently that he has a new Pontiac. I got a new Chevi-y sedan about a month after I saw you." I like the wife's maiden name, "Mui-ph." Not that it matters, of course. 
The adage has it, "Speak of the devil and he's sure to crop up." I have a letter from "HOWIE" PHA­LIN, which arrived shortly after "Murph's" epistle. In it he writes that he had just received a good of­fer from the W. P. Quarrie Co. He says he'll receive mail at 6151 Win­throp Avenue, Chicago. 
PETER J. "PETE" GALL-^GHER, a Pennsylvanian like myself, this is not said boastfully, is teaching school in Freeland, Pa. 
What ever happened to PHIL "Minstrel Chuckles" QUINN? 
JOHN H. McDERMOTT, one of AUentown's (Pa.) most prominent and influential citizens and father of Charles B. McDermott, '27, died re­cently. His funeral was one of the largest ever held in that city. Charley was a good friend of the Class of '28 when it was at college and is my clos­est Notre Dame contact. 
Has anyone heard anything about RICHARD LESTER NOVAK in the last two years? A card I sent him at Christmas was returned, "unknown at this address." 
JOSEPH A. BREIG is editor of the Vandergrift, Pa., daily newspaper and JOHN F. McM.A.HON is tapping a typewriter in Pittsburgh for the Associated Press. 
Fellows I should like to hear news, about: Bernard A. Garber, Richard 
B. Parrish, Mervyn A. Aggeler, Stan­ley. A. Grinager, John H. Gaughan, James "Rough House" Sexton, Sister­ville's gift to the nation; Francis "Swede" Schroeder, John J. Antus, Joseph Troy Bonner, Joseph D. Mon­tedonico, Kirwin "Tex" Williams, Paul Brady, William "Wee" BrowTi, "Tony" Ceres, John Frederick, "Rus" Riley, "Joe" Repetti, "Rog" Breslin, John Brannan, George Byrne, Mar­tin "Bud" Callagy, "Bob" Capesius, "Vince" Carey, Tom Mahon, Les Carrig, "Bemie" Crowley, Frank Creadon, "Ed" Conlin, "Jim" Cullen, John CuUinan, Don Corbett, Leo Paul, the Maloney brothers, Linus and Lyie, Tom "Marcus" McMahon, Dennis Dailey, Earl Dardes, "Joe" Doran, "Gene" O'Brien, "Bill" Duffy, "Dick" Elpers, Guy Loranger, "Bob" Evans, "Gene" Farrell, "Jack" Egan, Frank Flanagan, "Ed" Freitas, "Ed" Gleason, "Gus" Grams, "Bob" Ham­
ilton, "Jim" Hartley, "Joe" Hebert, "Dick" Hinchcliffe, Frank Holdampf, Henry Hudson, "Dutch" Holland, John Igoe, "Jim" Ingram, "Charley" Homer, William Hudson Jeffreys, Ed Keen an, John Considine, "Jim" Keams, George Kelley, W. W. Kelly, Joe Kinneary, "Bob" Knox, "Dave" Krembs, Jack Lavelle, John F. Leit­zinger, Vince Penote, Paul Lueken, "Ed" McCormack, "Charley" McGu­ckin, Peter Edward McKeo^vn, "Ed" McSweeney, "Jim" McShane, "Turk" Meinert, "Jim" Morrissey, "Herb" Nester, Ralph Nolan, "Joe" Obligate, "Phil" O'Connor, "Bill" O'Mara, Bill O'Neill, Carl Pettersch, "Andy" Pow­ers, "Jerry" Raybum, Frank Quinn, "Chet" Rice, John Rickord, "Joe" Rigney, Bob Rigney, Leo Schultheis, Oskar Rust, Sam Romano, George Sargus, Berni e Schuh, "Herb" Schulz, Harry Schubmehl, "Charley" Shelanskey, "Jim" Shocknessy, "Char­ley" Short, "Dave" Solomon, Law­rence Stadler, "Bob" Strickel, "Vince" Stace, "Al" Taylor, "Joe" Sullivan, Ed Tehan, "Burt" Toepp, Carl Ouel­ete, "Bemie" Stettler, "Jim" Hurl­burt, John Herbert, "Hank" Davis, "Pat" Varraveto, Frank Van Syckle, Ed Walsh, Dick AVehs and John Vik­toryn. 
MARCUS E. FARREL, FRANCIS 
A. HEGARTY and PAUL TOBIN are now in possession of the M. D. degree. 
BERNARD J. BIRD is now a suc­cessful Buffalo politician. 
EDWARD A. "GUS" JENKINS is teaching high school in New York State. 
Congratulations, JOE HILGER! 
EDDIE COLLINS, now in Tucson, Arizona, along with LARRY WHITE, another member of our class, is con­ducting a daily feature with FRANK CARIDEO in the nation's chief news­papers. "Eddie," president of our class in the freshman year, asks "Pig­skin Puzzlers" and Frank answers them. Please remember Eddie and Larry in your prayers and otherwise. 
"BILL" KEARNEY and BERNIE KORZENESKI, Chicago lawyers, the 
K. K. twins, are still seen together. 
"JOE" MORRISSEY, Danville, m., is turning out great athletic teams at Roger Bacon High School, Cincinnati. Keep up the good work, Joe! 
J. W. "BILL" KIRWAN is a suc­cessful department store manager in the Northwest. 
BERNARD T. LOEFPLER, Clarksburg, W. Va., is now employed profitably in Indianapolis. 
"JOE" McNAJLAR-A., bourgeoning Indiana politician, who was seen of­ten during the reunion, flashes a smile as broad as himself, which is saying more than a little. 
CHRISTIE SHULL, a member of the law firm of Shull, ShuU & Shull, Stroudsburg, is now a city solicitor. His grandfather is Judge Shull, well known in Monroe County. 
"MARTY" RYAN, former cross country star, got a big kick out of the reunion. 
JOHN F. ROBINSON and J. JE­ROME BIGGE, president and drum major, respectively, of the band in their senior year, were together con­stantly at our first reunion. So, too, were VINCE DUCEY and ANDY MULREANY, who were in their sen­ior year president and business man­ager, respectively, of the glee club. 
It was good to be able to shake hands -with some of the "boys" again. 
Is this enough, Louie? 
Leo R. McXntyre." 
JAMES AVHITE SHOCKNESSY of 526 South Fountain Ave., Spring-Held, 0., has been appointed first as­sistant state counsel of the Federal Home Owners Loan Corporation, with headquarters at Columbus, Ohio. Jim was admitted to the Ohio bar in 1932, and until recently has been as­sociated -ivith a prominent law firm in Cincinnati. To judge from the powerful names that urged his ap­pointment one would get the impres­sion Mr. Shocknessy had won far into the confidence of the political leaders of Ohio. 
.A.RT DENCHFIELD, late of Uru­guay, Germany and other foreign ports, was a most welcome and inter­esting visitor on the campus recently, accompanied by his father. Dr. Dench­field, enroute to see a Century of Progress. After Art's travels with the National City Bank of N. Y., the Streets of Paris, and sundry other purported transplantations must have seemed a bit less attractive than to us timber wolves. Art addressed the foreign commerce students while on the campus, and naturally had a great deal to tell them that is hard to get from cold type. 
Dr. S. DAVID SOLOMON has completed his medical training and is now practising in Ebensburg, Pa. 
PETER MERLONI is physical di­rector of the Don Bosco community center. Ports Chester, N. Y. 
From WATTS EICHER in Wash­ington comes news of the marriage of "CHUNKIE" MURRIN, now an at­torney in Houston, Texas, associated with King, Wood and Morrow. 
1929 
Federal offenses have their merits. Assistant State's Attorney General JOSEPH P. MC NAMARA visited the office recently while trying a case in South Bend. Big things are brew­ing, my friends, that will make that old '29 after your name just like that old Blue Eagle on your firm station­ary. 

JOHN O'CONNOR writes from New Jersey, where he is state super­visor for the Federal Farm Relief Bureau, offices in Westwood. He says that if JIM BRAY is still a good Democrat to get in touch with him 
(John). 
1930 

JOHN WALSH has entered the St. Thomas Seminary, Denver, Colo. JOE HENNESSY, whose marriage was reported in August, writes: 
Saw HARRY DRAVES and ED DRAVES, '31, Harry is continuing his course in accounting, working for his Master's at Northwestern and Ed is aiming to be an M.D., at Michigan. MAT GARRIGAN, '31, came down from Detroit to help celebrate, and in Chicago had an interesting eve­ning with STEVE SHAPLEY, who is ^vith Goodyear in Hammond. Ran into PROF TUNNEY on Michigan Boulevard. 
1931 

JOHN BERGAN helps the Class Sec­retary along with the following news of '31: 
Dear Jim: Just a little data on some of the members of the Class of '31. At­tended the aftei-math of BERT MA­LONEY'S wedding yesterday and it proved to be quite a gala occasion. BILL LAHEY was best man and the affair took place on the nineteenth of October in the Log Chapel on the campus. Airs. Maloney was the for­mer Dorothy Walsh, St. Maiy's Col­lege, '31. Bert is with the Standard Oil in Chicago and Bill is working in the Cook County Assessor's office. WALT CAHILL still hangs his hat in a grain broker's ofiice on La Salle Street. FRANK McGREAL and the Mrs. are fine. He completes his course at the Chicago College of Law in November and then intends to applv full time to law in the One LaSalle' Bldg., Chicago . EDDIE RYAN and VERN KNOX are still attending law school and working on the side in Chicago. PHIL AIRE is with his father constructing roads in Southern Illinois. AL STEPHAN was seen at the Kansas game but no information as to his plight was gained. AL CULVER winds up his duties at the "Streets of Paris in the World's Fair the first week in No­vember. P HI L A N G S T E N also worked at the World's Fair this sum­mer as did JACK CARBERRY who w^e saw at the East-West grid game in August. 
Conratulations! Mr. and Mrs. BOB BALFE, it's a wonder that an an­nouncement couldn't be sent out be­cause newly-weds like to receive presents. Bob is still "fourth-estat­ing" in Florida. AUSTIE BOYLE continues to prosper in the French quarter of New Orleans. He issues a cordial invitation to anyone in the South to call on him at the office of the "Item-Tribune." HASKELL AS­KEW is on the staff of the State fire marshall of the State of Oklahoma. 
Guess HOWIE BEASLEY is still in Tulsa with the Federal Match Com­pany. TOMMY YARR is playing pro ball with the Chicago Cardinals and BEHNIE LEAHY is halfback on the Shamrocks. FRANK LEAHY is as­sistant coach at Fordham this year and states that the "Rams" ought to go places. AL HOWARD is tempo­rarily out of the coaching field and is engaged by his father-in-law in North Carolina. AI was married last summer. Good luck! 
Getting up to Pittsburgh there is no news of the O'DONNELL-MAG­GARAL clan. Even their fellow townsman,- DON MARTIN is un­aware of their activity. TOM ASHE has gone back on the news vending too. Guess Mellophone still has him going. RED McVEAN is working for a Rochester brewery and DOR­SCHELL is still working for the poli­ticians in his home town. BILL CAS­SADAY has a good job with the City of Cincinnati and LOUIE BADEN is running his father's foundry busi­ness. LARRY BALDINGER is head of the pharmacy department at Notre Dame and DICK BAKER is back on the campus for his M.A. Among the hoiaovers in the Law school are, GENE VALLEE, VINCE PONIC, BOB DOERRE and JACK SHIVELY. MATTINGLY SPALD­ING is also working on his M.A. and selling at Hears Roebuck. The O'BRIEN tivins MATT and MIKE wei-e down for the Kansas game from the World's Fair. They have recently completed their law course at the Univeraity of Florida and ex­pect to practice soon. JERRY BALL is with the Ohio Oil Co. in South Bend and CLEM POWERS and BOB RUPPE still maintain their apart­ment in South Bend, their doors are open wide for any visitors for the 
S. C. game. 
JIM BORDEAUX is with his fa­ther's meat company in Saranac Lake. ROLLIE POULIN is selling clothes at Livingston's here, and TIM BENITZ is teaching bridge in New York City. BOB NEYDON is with a finance company in Deti-oit. EMIL TELFEL vnll be far from the maddening crowd at the Army game this year as the "genial judge" is teaching in St. Norbert's College, Green Bay, Wisconsin. DANN Y WILLIAMS also operates in that col­lege too. BILL McALEER is with a paper in his home town, Altoona. TED LEE is with the A &P Tea Co., 
but RED McALEER, does any one ever hear from him? ED DRAVES is completing his course in medicine at Michigan this 
•year and DUNNING SHANLEY is doing hospital work at Northwestern Med. FRANK BROWN is practicing law in Pennville, Ind. and TOM MONAHAN is in the claim depart­ment of the Illinois Traveling Mens Insurance Co. Rumor hath it that he is soon to be married. How about it, O'Connor? 
Well, Jim, guess that it's about all for this time. Hope you will excuse the typing and accept my congratu­lations on your last ALUMNUS. 
Sincerely, 
John E. Bergan. 

TOM GOLDEN has arrived in San Francisco as promised, new address 108 Guerrero St. Is working for the City of Paris in the electrical dept. Tom has met a number of N. D. men there, ROYAL BOSSHARD an d SAM LANPHIER mentioned. 
St. Norbert's College, De Pere, Wis., is enjojing the joint pedagogic efforts of DAN WILLIAMS and EMIL HELFEL. Dan spoke recently on the NRA before the Rotary in Kaukana, Wis. BILLIE DEW is working for his father at Fond du Lac, hopes to become a state traffic inspector. JOE LAUERMAN was married during the summer. 
C. S. "RED" AVELLS is now agent for Schlitz and Sterling beers in Pa­ducah, Ky., and reports a reasonable thirst in that community. He plans to attend the Southern Cal game. 
RAY CONNORS, of Great Bar­rington, Mass., was a visitor on the campus, Oct. 3. 
1932 

JOHN F. LINDENBERG was 
elected chairman of the board and 
made auditor of The Square Clothing 
Co., Inc., Hutchinson, Minn., at a 
recent meeting. 
PETER BOSSERT, Minot, N. Da­
kota, is superintendent of repairs at 
the Minot branch of the Deere & 
Weber Co. 
BILL FLYNN (Feb. '33) is work­
ing on the Dailu Post in Butte, Mont. 
News and features are giving his 
journalism a real workout. His job 
gives him a chance to spend a few 
week-ends at his home in Deer Lodge, 
Mont. 
1933 Jack Gary sends the following from Loyola Med School: JEROME SUR­DYK is also at Loyola, ROLLIN BUNCH is at Rush Medical, MAT­THEW BRUCKER at Northwestern Med., DONALD WAUFLE at U. of Wisconsin Med and STEVEN HORN­YAK is at the U. of Illinois Med School. ED COTTER, '32, and ROY CATIZONE, '32, are Junior and Sophomore respectively at Loyola. 
LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Jo­seph H. Krakcr. 29. l"76-24th St, Cuy­ahoga Falls. Ohio. President: Claude H. Homing. '29. 133 N. Hichland Ave.. Akron, Ohio. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF ARIZONA— James D. Barry. '9. 82 W. Penninprton St.. Tucson. President: Steve Rebeil. '25. 620 N. SL-rth St.. Tucson. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS— Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassner, '14, Hope. President: Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C.. '02. Dac­ca. President: Rev. J. J. Henessey, C.S.C., Dacca, Secretar>-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON— Joseph C. Sullivan. President: Robert J. Heam. 43 Chester Road. Belmont, Mass.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO— Paul D. Hocfflcr. '25. 280 Woodward Ave., Buffalo. President: Edmund J. Luti. Jr.. '24. 91 Beard Ave., Buffalo. Secretary. 
NOTRE D.AME CLUB OF THE CALU­MET DISTRICT—William L. Voss. Jr.. '23. 55521 Vine Ave-, Harvey, Blinois, President: William R, Doolcy, '26, 211— 157th St., Calumet City, Illinois, Sec­retarj'. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPI-• TAL DISTRICT—Thomas Dollard. '21. 200 9th St., Troy, New York, President: John Vincent Smith. '29, 252 First St., Albany, New York, Secretarj*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO— Austin McNichoIs. '17. c.o. W. A. Alex­ander & Co., 134 S. LaSalle St.. Presi­dent: William P. Kearney. '2S. 507 County BIdir., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI —Robert HuKhes. '29. 3565 Burch Ave.. President: W. D. Morrissey, *2G. Cath­olic Charities Bureau. Secretarj-, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —Matthew Trudelle. '17. 1023 Scofield Bldff.. President: J. Patrick Canny. '28, CO. Erie Railroad Legal Dcpt.. Medical Arts Bid?.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY — William J. Granfield. '13. State Bide., 1200 Main Street, Sprincfield, Mass.. President: James A. Currj-. '14, 647 Main St., Hartford, Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DALLAS. TEXAS—James P. Swift, '24, 422 In­tenirban Bide:., Dallas, President. Fran­cis A. McCullough. '30. 917 First Nat­ional Bank Bldg., Dallas, Secretary*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON— Robert Ohmer, '08. 512 Mutual Home Bldg., Daj-ton, President: Andrew A. Aman, Jr., '30. 210 Lexington Ave.. Dayton, Secretary-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— David Hickey, '28. 1515 Grant St.. pres­ident; O. L. Hough. '27, 1575 Race St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES -Ear l Walsh. '22. Des Moines Catholic College. President: Charles H. Lynch, '28. 1429-13th St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT— John T. Higgins. '24, 1632 Buhl Bldg.. President: Paul J. Dooley. '25. 6202 Hamilton Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Dr. J. A. Flynn. El. '12. 1511 R. L Ave.. N. W.. Washington. President: James D. Hayes. 5115 Eighth St., N. W.. Washington. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE. PA.— Richard D. Daley. '17. Erie Daau Times, President: Thomas Barber, '24, 416 Newman St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY-James Murphy. '22. 611 Securities BIdlg.. Bridgeport, Conn.. President: Joseph E. Russo. '32. 166 Hough Ave.. Brdigeport. Conn.. Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FT. WAYNE —Frank J. Gilmartin. '01. 336 W. Wool-and Ave.. President: Robert Eggeman. '30. Old First Bank Bldg.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY —Harold L. Londo. '24. City Engineers' Office. City Hall. Green Bay. Wis., Pres­ident: Levi A- Geniesse, '24, 510 Mina­han Bldg., Green Bay, Wis., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS. MICH—George E. Ludwig. '25. 328 Glenhaven Ave.. N. W. President: Ray­mond .1. Bonini. "27. 2460 Oakwood Dr.. 
S.E.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAMILTON. OHIO—M. O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second St.. President: Marc A. Ffehrer. '2T. 701 Rentschler Bldg., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHA­LAND—Norman Bartholomew. '15. 225 Cleveland Ave.. Iron Mountain. Mich.. President: Michael S. Corry, '27, 837 Terrace Ave, Marinette, Wis., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— 
M. E. Walter. '14. 1702 Stuart Ave., Houston. Texas. President: T. F. Green, Jr.. '27. Conroe. Texas, Secretary-Treasurer, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP INDLAN­APOLIS —Robert Kirby, '29, 1901 N. Meridian, President: John T. Rocap, '30, 129 E. Market St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET— Charles Lennon, '30, 605 Herkimer St., President; Thomas Feeley, '32. 316 Buell Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS CITY —Daniel F. Foley. '23. 25 Wint Ave.. Pt. Leavenworth. Kansas. President; John JL Dugan. '27. 4427 Tracy St., Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Al­bert J. Gebert. '30, U. of Kansas. Wich­ita, President: Dan Welchons, '30, 306 
E. 13th St., Hutchinson, Kansas, Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY— Wm. A. Reisert, Jr., '30, Rcisert Ins. Agency, 352 Starks Bldg., Louisville. Ky., President: Herman J. Ohligschlag­er. '29. Broadway at 30th St. Nat'I. Concrete Construction Co., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF KANE COUN­TY—William B. Chawgo, '31, North­western Mutual Life Insurance Co., 303 Graham Bldg., Aurora, Dl., Secretary pro tem. 
NOTRE DASIE CLUB OF LAPORTE. INDIANA—A. Gordon Taylor. '18, 1507 Indiana Ave., Laporte, President; Nor­man Duke, '33, 301 Nilcs St, Laporte, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS AN­GELES—Judge A. A. Scott '22, 2205­8th Ave, President: Edward P. Cun­ningham, '30, 1031 S. Grand Ave.. Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. '88, 307 Camp St, New Orleans, President: Cyp­rian A. Sporl, Jr.. '28. Whitney-Centril Bldg.. New Orleans. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Al­fonso Zobcl, "24, CO. Ayala & Cia. 21 Calle Juan Luna, Manilla, President 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS— Hugh Magevney, Jr., 1878 Union Ave., President 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE —^P. Dudley Pearson, '19, 2037 N. Lake Drive, President: Victor G. Woestc. '29, 1819 E. Kenwood Bldg., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA— Earl W. Brown. '93, 320 Power St, Helena, President: James B. O'Flynn. '11, Great Falls, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE— Robert P. Williams. Jr., '29, 106 Galla­tin Road, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEBRASIOV— Gcralad J. Barret '22, 315 S. 37th St. Omaha, Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JER­SEY—Robert Phelan. '22. 481 William St. East Orange, N. J.. President: Joseph Nulty, '27, 945 Madison Ave,, Elizabeth, N. J.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CITY OF NEW YORK—William A. Walsh. '96. 16-18 S. Broadway, Yonkers. New York. President; J. Norbert Gelson. Jr., '26, 1201 Troy Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y., Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA — Royal H. Bosshard. '17, 315 Montgomery St, San Francisco, President: Robert B. Hill. '23, 5033 Proctor Ave.. Oakland, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON— Nat McDougall. '00, 552 Sherlock Bldg., Portland, President; Thomas D. McSIa­hon. '27, Yeon Bldg., Portland, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO — Raymond J. Eichenlaub. '15, Hosier Realty Bldg., Columbia, Presi­dent 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA —Thomas F. Shea. o. s.. '09, 902 Ex­change Natl. Bank, Tulsa, President: Leo A. Schumacher, *13, King Wood Oil Co., Okmulgee, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Hold­ers of Permanent Seats: Louis P. Horl, '16, Paris Office, N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHIA — Harry Francis. Jr.. '30, 15 Spring Ave, Ardmore. Pa.. President: Thomas J. Magee, '32, 5801 Chew St, Philadelphia, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORIA, ILL. —Albert F. Gury, '28, 704 W. Wilcox Ave.. President: Joseph Langton. '28, 207 Hillyer Place, Secretary*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER —Thomas Ashe. 31. 226 Glen Ellyn Way, Rochester, President: Unymond D. Downs '26, 46 Clinton Ave, S., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Raymond C. Marelli, '27, 1418 Eighth St, Rockford, 111., Presi­dent: Francis W. Howland, '23, 902 N. Main St , Rockford, HI., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF RHODE ISLAND—Charles A. Grimes, '20, Para­mount Bldg., Providence, President; Cy­ril A. Costello, '29, 44 Huxley Ave., Providence, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—Paul M. BuUer. '27. 802 I.O.O.F. BIdgl. South Bend. Indiana. President; Norman J. Hartzer, '29, 843 Forest Ave.. South Bend, Indiana. Sec­retary. 
Local Alumni Clubs 
(Continued) 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS— Leo Sutliffe. "24, 2701 So. Grand. Presi­dent; Robert Hellrunc. '30. 7214 North-moor Drive, University City, Mo., Secy. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CITY— Vincent F. Harrinjrton. *25, Continental Mort(;:age Co.. President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK—Vincent Brown, '23, 1418 James St., Syracuse. President: Vincent Goulet. '26, 125 Green St., Syracuse, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SAN AN­TONIO—Harold Tynan. '27, 240 E. Hui­sackc Ave., President: Kirwin J. Wil­liams, '28, 319 W. Gramercy, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN. OHIO —C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Melmore St.. President: Fred J. Wagner, "29, 152 Sycamore St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO— Fred A. Sprenger. '30, 3129 Kimball Ave., President: Joseph L. Wctli, '31, 717 Starr Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRI-CITIES— Richard B. Sivift, '20, Kahl Bldf:.. Dav­enport. Iowa. President: Henry M. Mc-Cultough Bids., Davenport, Iowa, Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CITIES—Joseph Carey, '32, 20 Roose­velt Ave.. Endicott, N. Y.. President: Joseph Hennessy, '30, 22 Fourth St., Johnson City, N. Y., Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAJIE CLUB— John J. Doyle, '28, 414 2nd Ave., S.. Minneapolis, Minn., President: Robert FoBerty, '28, College o£ St. Thomas. St. Paul, Minn., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF UTAH—Ray­mond R. Brady, '24. 206 Kearns Bldg., Salt Lake City, President: Cyril Har­becke, '19, 64 F. St.. Salt Lake City. Sec. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY—Noble Kizer.'25, Purdue Uni­versity, Lafayette. Ind., President; Peter Vogt, Secretarj'-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA — Leo R. Mclntyre, '28. Bethlehem, Pa., Temporary Chair­man : Charles B. McDermott, '27, Allen­town, Secretary-
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA —John B. Reardon, '22, 15 Union Bank BMK.. Pittsburgh. President: Joseph Bach, '25, Duquesne University Athletic Dept., Pittsburgh, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASHINGTON—Dr. Clarence Shannon. 
O.S. '02; Stimson Bldg., Seattle, Wash., President: E. Morris Starret, '14-21, El. '23, 801 Washington St.. Port Town­send, Wash., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY —George A. Gaflney, '9S-'99, 54 Park PI., Waterbur^*, Conn., President: James 
M. Monaghan. '27, 44 Ayer St., Water­bury, Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING. 
W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley. '11, Citi­zens-Peoples Trust Co.. Wheeling, Presi­dent: George Sargus, '28, 2111 Belmont, Bellairc, Ohio, Secretary. 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME—Sister M. Agnes Alma, O. P., Mt, St. Mary-on-the-Hudson. Newburgh, New York. President: Miss Rose Stef­faniak, 161 Walnut St., Coldwater, Mich. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGS-TOWN—John J. Kane, Jr.. '25. 1018 First National Bank, President: Norman Smith. '24, 126 Roslyn Dr„ Secretary. 
LIST OF CLASS SECRETARIES 
i'cor A'aiHC Address Before 1880 Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher Fitchburg, Mass. 1880—85 Prof. Roliert M. -Anderson Circleville, Ohio 1886 Michael 0. Bums 338 S. Second St., Hamilton. Ohio 1887 Hon. Warren A. Carticr Ludington, Michigan 1888 John L. Heineman Connersville, Indiana 1889 P. E. Burke 301 Camp St., New Orleans, L.-i. 1890-93 Louis P. Chute 7 University Ave.. Minneapolis, Minnesota 1894 Hugh A. O'DonnclI The New York Times, New^ York City 1895 Eustace Cullinan. Sr. 860 Phdan Bids.. San Francisco, Calif. 1896 William P. Bums 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City, Indiana 1897 Rev. John A. MacNamara P. O. Bo.x 64, Bel Air, Maryland 1898 Wm. C. Kegler 9th and Sycamore Sts.. Cincinnati, Ohio 1899 Dr. Joseph F. Duanc 418 JelTerson Bldg.. Peoria, Illinois 1900 John W. Eggeman Old First Bank Bldg.. Fort Wayne, Ind. 1901 Joseph J. Sullivan 1300. 139 N. aark St., Chicago, III. 1902 C. C. Mitchell 110 S. Dearborn St., Bo.x 3, Chicago, HI. 1003 Francis P. Burke 904 Trust Company Bldg.. Milwaukee, Wisconsin 1904 Robert Proctor Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Indiana 1905 Daniel J. O'Connor 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Illinois 1006 Thomas A. Lally 811-13 Paulsen Bldg., Spokane, Washington 1908 Frank X. Cull Buckley Bldg.. Cleveland, Ohio 
E. P. Clear}­

1009 P. O. Box 356. Momence, Illinois 
1910 1900 Euclid Ave., Cleveland. Ohio 
Rev. M. L. Moriarty 1911 1635 First National Bank Bldg., Chicago, Illinois 
Fred L. Steers 1012 324 Fourth St., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
B. J. Kaiser James R. Devitt 

1013 921 Engineers Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio 
1014 1055 Granville Ave., Chicago, Illinois Frank H. Hayes 
James E. Sanford 

1915 1033 S. Linden Ave., Highland Park, HI. 
Timothy P. Galvin Edward J. McOskcr 

1916 70S First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Indiana 
1917 104 S. Union St., Elgin, Illinois 
John A. Lemmer 

1018 1110-Sth Ave., S., Escanaba, Michigan 
Clarence Bader 

1919 650 Fierce St., Gary, Indiana 
Leo B. Ward 

1920 1012 Black Bldg., Los Angelesi California 
Alden J. Cusick 

1921 1 Park Ave., New York City 
Gerald Ashe 

1922 226 Glen Ellyn Way. Rochester, New York 
Paul Castner 

1923 White Motor Company, Cleveland, Ohio 
James F. Hayes 

1924 Fifth Avenue Ass'n., Empire State Bldg., N. Y. City 
John W. Scollan 

1925 Pullman Co., 79 E. Adams St.. Chicago, HI. 
Dr. Gerald W. Hayes 

1926 96 N. Walnut St., East Orange, N. J. 
Edmund DeCIerq 

1927 8126 Drexel Blvd., Chicago, Illinois 
Louis Buckley 

1028 718 E. Corby St., South Bend, Indiana 
Joseph McNamara 

1029 231 Wisconsin St.. Indianapolis, Indiana 
Bernard W. Conroy 

1030 72 Barrow St., New York City 
John E. Boland 

1031 3624 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
Herbert Giorgio 

1932 9005 ISSth St., Hollis, L. L, New York 
Donald Wise 

1933 Notre Dame, Indiana 
DISTRICT GOVERNORS  
District  .Vaiiic  Addrfss  
I  John W. Eggeman, '00  Old First Bank Bldg., Fort Wayne. Ind.  
• II  Daniel Hilgartner, Jr., '17  2039 E. 72nd PI., Chicago, Illinois.  
III  E. C. McHugh. '13  4220 Cherry St.. Cincinnati, Ohio  
IV  John V. Diener. '09  704 Cass St.. Green Bay, Wisconsin  
V  Ha^-mond J. Kelly. '13  City Hall, Detroit. Michigan  
VI  Thomas Farrell, '26  96 N. Walnut St. East Orange, N. J.  
VII  William A. Daunt, 'OS  110 E. 42nd St., New York City  
VIII  Dr. Robert Bums, '17  948 Main St.. Buffalo, New York  
IX  Joseph P. Gartland. '27  60 Congress St,, Boston, Mass.  
X  Anselm D. Miller. '25  1238 JIaple St., Roanoke, Va.  
XI XII XIII XIV  Harold Foley, '21 Frank Bloemer, '22 Arthur Carmody, '15 Joseph A. Meager, '25  Foley, Florida 126 E. Jefferson St, Louisville, Ky. SI 9 Slattery Bldg., Shreveport, La. 107 Catherine Court, San Antonio, Texas  
XV XVI XVII XVIII XIX XX XXI XXII  Dr. D. M. Nigro. '14 Richard B. Swift, '20 Dr. R. C. Monahan. '90 Robert Fo.\, '01 James D. Barry, '97 Howard Parker, '17 E. M. Starrett, '21 Alfonso Zobel. '24  531 Argylc Bldg., Kansas City, Missouri Kohl Bldg., Davenport, Iowa 418 Hennessy Bldg., Butte, Montana 5730 17th Ave, Parkway, Denver, Colorado 82 W. Pennington St., Tucson, Arizona Sutter Club, Sacramento, California 801 Washington St, Port Townscnd, Washington CO. -^yala & Cia, 21 Calle Juan Luna, Manila, P.  I.  

\skat does U tak h uaHsfy ? ' 
''That's easy... and they're MILDER and they TAST'S. BETTER. 
Okesterfield 
© 1933. liGOETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO . 








