The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

NOV 10^58 
James £. Armstrong, '21 Editor 
John F. Laughlin, '48 
Managing Editor 


'Rockne Story' November 9 On CBS-TV '20th Century' 
Coach's Words and Grid Triumphs Recalled on Documentary Program 
A half-hour film program entitled "Rockne of Notre Dame" will be pre­sented over the CBS television network on Sunday, November 9, from 6:30 to 7:00 p.m. (Eastern Standard Time) as a production of CBS-TVs "Twen­tieth Century" series. 
"Rockne" will be one of ver)' few programs dedicated to a personality on the "Twentieth Centur)'" series, which usually concerns itself with trends and institutions rather . than individuals. This is probably because "Rock" has become as much an institution as foot­ball itself. The last sports presentation cf "Twentieth Century" was a story of the ten most unforgettable moments in the history of the \Vorld's Series, as chosen by W. \V. "Red" Smith, '27, America's best-known sports columnist, with commentary by Smith and Yan­kee-tumed-sportscaster Phil Rizzuto. 
Notre Dame's Film Storage Center turned over all its Rockne-era movie footage to CBS for the Rockne pro­gram, wliich network executives feel "will create a tremendous amount of interest, not only amongst sport fans, but among viewers in general." 
CBS News' information director, Michael Horton, says: "Even though Rockne died in 1931, great deal of footage has been unearthed in which he is talking on film. This footage has been put together into a half-hour program which successfully portrays Rockne not only as a great coach but as a great force for good in education. Much of the film is devoted to his talks to his players in which he dis­cusses the need for brains and scholar­ship on the part of athletes, and would 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
certainly refute any charges that he ran a football factor)'. In addition, he is shown as a man of considerable wit — he says some tremendously funny things in the course of the show." 
One outstanding sound-on-film se­quence depicts a half-time pep talk in the locker room. 
The "Twentieth Century" series, now in its second season, is produced by the Public Affairs Department of CBS News. The producer of the series is Benjamin Burton, and newsman Walter Cronkite is narrator. The Rockne show was written by Jerome Brondfield. The "Twentieth Century" series is sponsored by the Prudential insurance company. 
KNUTE K. ROCKNE "Force for Good in Education" 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

Officers 

J. PATRICK CANNY, '28 Honorary President ^ FR,\NCIS L. LAYDEN, '36 President EDMOND R. HACGAR, '38 , Club Vice-President EUGENE M . KENNEDY, '22 Class Vice-President OSCAR J. DORWIN, '17 Fund Vice-President JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary' 

Directorsto 1959 

FR,\NCIS L. LAYDEN, '36 701 College Highway, Evansville, Ind. 
EDMOND R. HAGGAR, '38 Haggar Company 6113 Lemman Avenue, Dallas, Texas 
EUGENE M . KENNEDY, '22 174 S. Mansfield Avenue Los Angeles 36, Calif. 
OSCAR J. DORWIN, '17 Texas Company 135 E. 42nd St, New York 17, N. Y. 
Directors to 1960 

LEO J. VooEL, '17 >. 286 Magnolia Place, Pittsburgh 28, Pa. RAYMOND W . DURST, '26 840 Lathrop .'\ve.. River Forest, III. 
JULES K. DE LA VERGNE, '33 413 Pere Marquette BIdg. New Orleans, Louisiana ' 
WILLIAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 114 Laurie St., Duluth 3, Minnesota j 


Directors to 1961 

JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22 Kansas City Life Insurance Co. ! Box 139 Kansas City 41, Missouri CHARLES E. ROHR, '30 Rohr's, ni l Chester, Cleveland, Ohio 
JAMES H . SHEILS, '35 McManus and Walker ' 39 Broadway, New York, New York JOHN C. O'CONNOR, '38 1000 Fidelity Trust Bldg. Indianapolis, Indiana 

Chairmen of tlie 1958 Committees 
F. L. LAYDEN Executive^ 
E. R. HAGGAR Club Activities 
E. M. KENNEDY Class Activities-
O. J. DORWIN 
Alumni Fund, Foundation and Gifts 

E. R. HAGGAR Preparatory Schools 
L. J. VOGEL Placement and Job Counseling' 
J. K. DE LA VERGNE .... Inter-Alumni Affairs 
E. M. KENNEDY * 
Prestige and Public Relations 

W. E. COTTER Religion and Citizenships 
E. R. HAGGAR AND 
E. M. KENNEDY Nominations 

R. W. DURST Budget and Finance 
L. J. VoGEL Resolutions' 
This magazioe is published bi-monthly by the Uni\xr5it>' of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post OfEcc, Notre Dame, Ind.. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

portation (chiefly air); guides through­out the trip to assist the pilgrims; all meals e.\cept as noted below in Rome, Paris and London; sightseeing tours 




Lourdes, Rome Highlight Plan For N. D. Air Tour 
Interest Sought For Projected Alumni Pilgrimage to Europe 
' Would you be interested in a three-week "all-expense" chartered-plane pilgrimage to the Shrines of Europe ^ —Lourdes, the Eternal City, Paris' Cathedral of Notre Dame—under 
'Notre Dame auspices and at a price that compares favorably with a stay at the more luxurious vacation resorts on this hemisphere? 
This is not a rhetorical question. 
•Your opinion is earnestly solicited by alumni in Rome and on this side of the Atlantic who have developed a plan for such a tour. 
Originally conceived, before his 
' death, as a tribute to Pope Pius XII, the pilgrimage—if alumni interest warrants—might still be held as a 
• memorial to the departed Pontiff, "first Notre Dame Pope," and a welcome to his successor in the chair of St. 
, Peter. The sponsors of the Notre Dame Pilgrimage have worked out this ten­tative itinerary': departure after Mass 
'\in Chicago for the main body of pil­I'grims, by sleeper plane over the At­lantic, Portugal and Spain, to Lourdes, 
* France; the next day spent at the Shrine, including overnight accommo­dations; departure for Rome next day 
« on a three-hour flight over the Medi­terranean; the remainder of this and 
' the next four full days in the Eternal 
,, City, with morning and afternoon tours of the Vatican and the Seven Hills, plus evenings planned by the Notre Dame Club of Rome; departure next day, after Mass at St. Peter's Basilica, 
ijon an eight-hour deluxe motor coach 
'tour through Italy to Florence; two nights and a day's Florentine sightsee­ing before a four-hour train trip to Milan and lodging for the night; then an hour and a half by plane and an hour by train to Lucerne, Switzerland; two nights and a daytime tour in the ancient Swiss resort city with its beau­tiful lake; next an hour each by train and plane through France to Paris; three days and nights in the City of Light, including morning and after­noon tours and Mass at Notre Dame Cathedral; then an hour's plane trip to London for three days and nights in the English capital, with morning and afternoon tours, then, no Notre Dame pilgrimage would be complete without a two-hour plane hop to Dub­lin for a day and night, a five-hour deluxe motor coach trip across Ireland to Shannon and return by overnight plane to the U.S. 
That's the basic trip—21 (or 22, if desired) days, including 19 (or twen­ty) in Europe—all for about $795 per person. 
Two main alternatives are possible, each including round-trip ticket and the first-week pilgrimage to Lourdes and Rome: either (1) leaving the group after the first week for two weeks' footloose travel, rejoining the tour on the last day for return to the States (cost: about $495); or (2) going with the group for the first and third weeks, with the second week on one's own, which should appeal to skiers or those who would like to re­main in Rome or take side trips to Germany, Monte Carlo or the Riviera 
(cost: approximately $610). These three alternatives, allowing any number of others, make the trip flexible enough for any taste and re­tain the economy of the basic plan. These prices would include (as long as you stay with the tour): all trans­
in each city (four in Rome, three apiece in London and Paris, etc.); aU transfers (plane to hotel, etc.) includ­ing luggage, and first class hotels in every city. 
The only "extras" would be one meal a day in Rome, Paris and Lon­don; private sightseeing transjrorta­tion, gifts and any additional re­freshments. 
Priests or other campus representa­tives would probably accompany the tour. The pilgrimage does not provide a visit to the Shrine of Fatima in Portugal because of difficulties in transportation from Lisbon, but this might be possible on one of the alter­nate plans. 
Prices and itinerary have been out­lined by a national travel agency oper­ated by Notre Dame alumni. Prices quoted are the maximum anticipated. 
The success of the pilgrimage de­pends on the number of participants. If you are interested in such a tour in the early spring of 1959, or later, (1959 or 1960), please write to PILGRIM­AGE, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
IN MEMORIAM HIS HOLINESS, POPE PIUS XII 

The University of Notre Dame, its priests, faculty members and students, deeply mourn the death of our Holy Father, Pope Pius 
XII. Before his elevation to the papacy it was Notre Dame's pri­vilege to confer upon him an honorary degree when he visited the University as Eugenio Cardi­nal Pacelli, Vatican secretary of state, in 1936. 
Throughout his glorious Ponti­ficate, with its awesome responsi­bilities. Pope Pius XII continued to show in many ways a keen interest and a great affection for his American "alma mater." He relinquishes his burdens as Christ's vicar on earth, assured of the prayers of the entire Notre Dame family, here and through­out the world. 
May his magnificent soul rest in peace. —Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, 
C.S.C. Acting President October 8, 1958 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1938 
proper spelling of a name on an en­velope or the tone of voice on the. 

edUti^Ual eomme*iU M '"""''°"' 
lumni Secretary telephone, to a proper planning of 
"Religion and Citizenship." 
"Prestige and Public Kelations." 
These are the names of two of the 
standing Committees of your national 
Board of Directors of the Alumni As­
sociation. 
They are also 
the names of 
two Committees 
recommended 
for each local 
Alumni Club. 
It is not tell­
ing tales out of 
Janies E. Armstrong school to report 
that the Chairmen of these Com­
mittees, and their members, on botli 
the national and local levels, iiave dif­
ficulty in defining the goals and rec­
ommendations. 
If I could give them the answers there would be no need for further comment. 
Obviously the broad titles are ab­stract. But just as obviously they were not set up to provide paper impres­siveness, or to create confusion. If you don't mind, a little printed meditation may add some light along the paths. 

"Religion and Citizenship" were linked together as a phase of our alumni program because the post­^Vorld AVar II Alumni Boards have felt that the fundamental patriotism of .American Catholics and the rich train­ing for citizenship in our Catholic schools have long since been demon­strated concretely, and should be a permanent area of identity with the graduates of these schools. 
The University of Notre Dame, in particular, has achieved a magnificent record in the patriotic annals of the United States. But in addition it has made signal contributions to tlie whole moral fiber of the nation in tlie lead­ership it has supplied through Notre Dame and Notre Dame men in all walks of American life. 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, established in 1938 through the initiative of the Notre Dame Club of New York, has given a concrete annual concentration to this concept. Our Lady, under Her title of The Immaculate Conception, is the Patron­ess of the United States of America. And our Communion Sunday, on the Sunday nearest this great feast of the Church, spotlights for Notre Dame this 
4 'Solre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
integration of religion and citizenship. 
Individual example, the good alum­
nus who is the good citizen, is always 
less dramatic, less tangible. But if you 
read in the ALUMNUS and in the 
public press the multiplying contribu­
tions of Notre Dame men to the civic, 
political, educational, social, cultural 
and economic structure of American 
society, you will begin to see the scope 
of the volume that could be published 
by Notre Dame in this vital area of 
association. 
"Prestige and Public Relations" was similarly created by the Board as a concept, because the public relations of Notre Dame and Notre Dame men gains most from the prestige that at­taches to the University and to the men it graduates. 
Prestige is the hardest tenn to trans­late into a concrete program, because it is a by-product of competence and character, and not something that can be detached and created by a specia­lized program, or something that can be secured separately in any market­place. 
Public relations, on the other hand, is a conscious effort on the part of all members of an institution to relate that institution to all its contacts in its most favorable light. The program is a complex one and varies from tlie itineraries of institutional leaders to 
provide personal contacts on a national 
scale. 

And public relations, properly-planned and executed, through the deliberate selection of favorable fac­tors in all forms of contact, can and does accelerate the creation of prestige, j The well-timed pat on the back for^| an alumnus who has done something _. well, the maximum good climate that can be created for the announcement ­of a University achievement, these are phases of public relations that focus the eyes of prestige on the Notre Dame _ man and the school which educated him. 
So, in 1924, Universal Notre Dame»^ Night was instituted as our great annual tangible concentration of public relations for the purpose of bringing to each Local Alumni Club community , the latest achievements of the Uni-^ versity of Notre Dame and its alumni, from which has inevitably stemmed a1 sharply increased prestige. 
I am sure that we have not yet solved some of the problems of clarifi­cation in these great areas of thought V and action. \Ve have cited the annual fc high spots. But both programs are year-g' round challenges. It seems to me that! if you share the thinking of your Board J and your Club, you can help us come fj much further. | 
Vie\ ving DCX (Direct Current Experiment) at the U. S. Fusion Exhibit in Geneva, Switzer­land, arc (I. to r.) William D. Manly, '47, principal metallurgist, Oak Ridge National Laboratory; Father Hesburgh in his capacity as Vatican representative to the Atoms-for-Peace Conference; Miss Paulita Buckley, U. S. guide, and John Love of Union Carbide 
;. Guard Jim Schaaf (No. 62, toppling tackier) and End Dick Royer (84) accompany Quarterback Bob Williams (9) on a brokcn-ficld gallop for pay dirt in the closing minutes of the Irish opener, an 18-0 >-ictory over Indiana. 



FORMER STUDENTS CAN BE ELECTED TO ALUMNI MEMBERSHIP 
The Alumni Association, as you ^ know, automatically enrolls all grad­uates as members of the Association. The Alumni Board of Directors, at 
its July meeting, in approving a list ' of applications from non-graduate for­, mer students for membership, ex­
pressed the opinion that many alumni 
-and non-graduate former students may not know the method of becoming a member of the Association if you did 
, not receive a degree. The constitutional requirement is 
•* simply this, that a former student of the University is eligible for member­ship in the Alumni Association, after his entering Class has been graduated, upon application to and approval by 
' the Board of Directors of the .Aliunni _ Association. The Alumni Office has regular ap­
•» plication forms which arc sent to in­dividual non-graduates who evince in­terest, to Local Clubs to supply to their non-graduate members, and to Class Secretaries to give to the non­
• graduating members of the Class. 
Upon election at a regular meeting of the Alumni Board, the non-graduate becomes a member of the Association, receives the aliunni magazines, ballot 
if he is in good standing, and, similarly, football ticket applications. You have only to look at your Local Clubs to appreciate how many non-
graduate Notre Dame men are inter­ested, active, and very helpful mem­bers of the Club, and our national experience corresponds. 

SPIRITUAL BOUQUET PLANNED FOR U.N.D. COMMUNION SUNDAY 
The University of Notre Dame has received many evidences of the power of prayer. 
All Notre Dame men have many reasons to e.\press their thanks to God and Our Lady for the continuing favors bestowed on Notre Dame. 
The Alumni Board of Directors, at its July meeting, expressed the desire to have some major manifestation of alumni activity that would not involve money or fimd-raising, but would bring to the University and to every alumnus some real evidence of the relationship which exists between Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. 
President Mike Laydcn and the Committee on Religion and Citizen­ship emerged with the wonderful pro­posal that the 1958 Universal Notre Dame Commimion Sunday, the Sunday nearest the Feast of the Immaculate Conception (December 7), be the oc­casion of a world-wide spiritual bou­quet from all Notre Dame men and their families to Father Theodore Hes-burgh, as the continuing leader of the University, for the continued success of Notre Dame. 
All Clubs will remind you of this program in the weeks ahead, but the official project will be an individual mailing to ever)' alumnus, with ade­quate provision for returning the spiri­tual bouquet (yours and your family's part in it) to Father Hesburgh, so that on December 7 Notre Dame will have received the greatest expression of spiritual strength and loyalty in the history of our University. 
This is a project in which all alumni, including our many Religious, can take an active part. 
And while it is entirely apart from cost, or contribution of money, it ac­tually reflects the greatest contribution that an alumnus can make, the basic contribution so evident in the histor)' of Notre Dame, the explanation of the success of all other programs—"Unless God builds the house, he labors in vain who builds it." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
TRI-CITIES—Gene Duffy (left) this year's co-captain of both the basketball and baseball teams at Notre Dame, welcomes new Freshman Dick Smith to the Tri-Citics Club's fish fry stag, while Jim Doyle, '42 (center), chairman of the event, looks on. 
N.D. Clubs Entertain Undergrade ivith Special Pre-Seliool Parties^ Pienies 


and Dinners 

MeMd-Oll 

CENTRAL NEW YORK—New students (I. to r.) Guido Carmassi, Bill Biser, Jr., Jack Egan and Dick Lcroy get a glimpse of the life awaiting them at the Annual Send-off Dinner of the Central New York Club in Syracuse, N. Y. 
Noire Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
September was crowded with Notre Dame Alumni Club functions of a typi: that has become more and more prominent on the calendar. Clubs across the land held events to greet new * freshmen and renew friend­ships with undergraduates from the area before the start of a new school year. 
Freshman welcome, student send-off, back-to-campus — names and variations on the theme were countless, but the spirit was the same. Pictured on these pages arc typical activities. 
The Harrisburg, Pa., Club held its annual "Back to School" party September 14 at the home of John Davis, in honor of "old timers" and students attending for the first time. Club President Don Meek handled arrangements. 
KANSAS CITY—At the K. C. Club Frosh Scnd-Off, behind a group of freshmen, arc {!. to 
On September 9 the Central New York r.) Club Vice President Jack Hayes, '41; Club Secretary John Massman, '36; Father Vincent 
Club held its annual Student Send-OfT Din­Kearney, speaker, former Club Chaplain; Scholarship Chairman Craig Whitaker, '49; Presi­
dent Ed Aylward, '48, and Send-Off Chairman "Bunky" O'Connor, '54. 
ner at the Bcllevuc Countr>- Club in Syra­cuse. .About 45 alumni and 25 students at­tended, including si.\ incoming freshmen and their parents as guests. Tom Quinlan toastmastcred. Campus Club President Barry West introduced students, and talks were given by outgoing President Bill Biser and Father Frank Harrison, pastor of St. .\ndrew the .Apostle Church in Syracuse. The dinner was accompanied by a golf day and election of new officers J. Gar\'cy Jones, Tom Quinlan, Jim Welter and Paul Hickey. 
The Tri-Cities Club held its annual fish ft)- stag at the Issac Walton Clubhouse near Davenport, Iowa, on September 5. 
On September 11 the Fort Wayne, Ind., 

Club held a picnic to entertain students and , new freshmen. Bob Kessing was chairman of the event, and John Lill headed the food 
committee. Volleyball, softball, horseshoes 
and touch football were played before sup­
per was ser\'ed. 
The Kansas City Club Freshman Send­, Off dinner was held September II at Wolf-erman's Empire Room, attended by a large ' group of freshmen and current undergrads. 

Back-to-Qamfi44A^ 

FORT WAYNE—Among the new freshmen, current undergraduates and sixty club members present at the send-off picnic of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne were: (kneeling, I. to 

Picmc 

r.) Alumnus Chairman Bob Kessing, Jim Hartman, Jerry Hipskind, Jerry Kessens, Ken Sive, Campus Club President Ron Wagner, Dave Eckrich and Alumnus Club President Bob Klingenberger; (standing, 1. to r.) Ray Walsh, Jerry Ward, Mike DeWald, Jude DeWald, Karl Roesler, Jim McGrath and Tom Eckrich. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
Ford Foundation Grant 

The Ford Foundation has awarded the Notre Dame Law School a grant of $153,000 to support its program in legal philosophy. The Notre Dame grant was among awards totaling $2,950,000 announced on October 21 by Ford Foundation officials in New York. 
According to Dean O'Meara the new 

fund will help underwrite the research 
and other activities of the Natural Law 
Institute. 
Dean O'Meara said tliat today's Ford 

Foundation grant was one of the 
largest ever received by the Notre 
Dame Law School. He expressed 
Notre Dame's "profound gratitude" to 
officials of the Ford Foundation 
"whose earlier grants have so greatly 
advanced faculty development at the 
University." 

Bar President To Speak 

Mr. Ross L. Malone, President of the American Bar Association, will be the featured speaker at the Law Honor Banquet next spring. This affair, held annually under the auspices of the Stu­dent Law Association, serves the dual purpose of saying bon voyage, to the 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 

members of the graduating class and recognizing the achievements of the School's student leaders. At the Law Honor Banquet last spring the fea­tured speaker was Mr. Malone's prede­cessor in office, Mr. Charles S. Rhyne of AVashington, D. C. 

Moot Court 

This issue goes to press on the eve of the final argument in the annual Moot Court Competition on October 
18. Mr. Justice Sherman Minton will preside. Other members of the Court which will sit on that occasion are Judge M. C. Matthcs of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit and Judge Henry N. Graven of tlie United States District Court for the Northern District of Iowa. 
The students who will present aigu­ments before this distinguished tribunal are: Altero J. Alteri, Detroit, Mich­igan: Dana C. Devoe, Orono, Maine; Robert P. Mone, Columbus, Ohio; and Milton V. Munk, Connellsville, Pa. 

New Chairman 

Oscar John Dorwin, '17, has ac­cepted appointment as National Chair­man of the Notre Dame Law Associa­tion's Scholarship Program. Mr. Dor­win is Vice President and General Counsel as well as a director of The Texas Company, and a member of the Law Ad\'isor)' Council. He succeeds another member of the Law Advisory Council, the late Frank J. McCarthy, '25, Vice President of the Pennsylvania Railroad. 

Law Association Meetings 

Since the last issue of the ALUMNUS there have been two verj' successful meetings of the Notre Dame Law As­sociation — a luncheon meeting on August 28 at the Jonathan Club in Los Angeles in connection with the annual meeting of the American Bar Associa­tion, and a breakfast meeting on September 20 in the Keenan Hotel in Fort \Vayne in connection with the annual meeting of the Indiana State Bar Association. AVilliam T. Huston, L'51, was Chairman of the Committee on Arrangements for the Los Angeles meeting and presided at it. Thomas 
L. Murray, L'51, made the arrange­ments for the Fort Wayne meeting and presided at it. 
Dean O'Meara and Judge Luther 

M. Swygert, L'27, spoke at the Los Angeles meeting. Those present in­cluded the following: W. J. Roche, L'53, New York City; Judge Luther M. Suygert, L'27, Hammond, Indiana; Joseph V. Wilco.x, L'49, Albion, Mich­igan; Judge Raymond J. Kelly, '15, Juneau, Alaska; William L. Struck, L'37, Dayton, Ohio; J. H, Sylvestre, '18, Crookston, Minnesota; Joseph F. Nigro, L'40, Denver, Colorado; John 
F. Kilkenny, L'25, Pendleton, Oregon; 
C. F. Osbom, '38, Seattle, Washington; Michael L. Hines, L'48, Las Vegas, Nevada; A. E. Sheridan, AVaukan, Iowa; John C. Fontana, Columbus, Ohio; Thomas W. Flj-nn, '35, Hono­lulu, Hawaii; James T. Jennings, '35, Roswell, New Mexico, and John L. Rosshirt, L'56, Towson, Marj'land. 
In addition, California was well rep­resented by the following: William T. Huston, L'51; Edward C. McMahon, '20; Thomas J. Ryan; Richard Byrne; Richard C. Farrell, '51; Thomas P. Foye, '39; Norman J. Hartzer, '31; Morton Goodman, '30; E. J. "Gene" Long, '57; C. AV. Long; Bion B. Voge^, '25; William J. Cusack. '14; Don Brady, '49; Leo B. Ward,'L'20; J. W. Mullin, Jr.; F. V. Lopardo, '41; Eugene M. Kennedy, L'22; Emmett Mulholland, L'16; Charles S. Glass, L'30; Edward Everiy, L'53; Henr>' Dockweiler; Art Aragon, L'50; and AVilliam F. Spalding, '41. 

Bank Loans for Law Students 

One of the urgent needs of The Law School is a student-loan fund. This again is pointed out in Dean O'Meara's Annual Report for 1957-58, which will have been received by all Notre Dame lawyers before this issue of the ALUMNUS is off the press. Pending the acquisition of a loan fund, an arrange­ment has been worked out which will enable deserv'ing students to obtain bank loans on terms which will ap­pro.ximate those a\'ailable at law schools which do have a student-loan fund. This was made possible through the co-operation of the Notre Dame Law Association and the Continental Illi­nois National Bank and Trust Com­pany of Chicago. 
Loans \vil\ be made only to second-and third-year students, and are to be limited to $500 a semester. Loans ^vilI bear simple interest at not to exceed 6 per cent, which will include the cost of life insurance to insure repa)'ment of the loan in the event of the borrower's death. While the student is in school, he will pay 2 per cent and the balance ' of the interest will be paid by the Notre Dame Law Association. After graduation, of course, the student will 
(Continued on page 11) 








NOTRE DAME FACULTY PAGE 
Arrivals and Departures Of Professors Listed by Academic Affairs Office 
OUTGOING FACULTY FACULTY CHANGES 1* 1958-59 Alumni of all Classes OTU find inter­
' NAME DEPARTMENT 
esting information in this very summary Balfe, Richard History 
report of changes in the faculty of the Bambah, R. P. Mathematics University as reported by the Office of 

Bartlett, Lt. William M J^aval Science ,' Biemans, Joris Economics 
Academic Affairs. Brown, Thomas N History The ALUMNUS has already reported ' Buchi, J. Richard .. Mathematics 
on the retirement of the five distin­1 Byrne, Paul S Art Galleries—retired 
guished men whose careers contributed Cameron, James English so much to Notre Dame. 

Cape, John A . Physics Chen, Joseph Physics It will report in various aspects of 
Coleman, Donald Bus. Administration University life, the activities of many *• Coty, Gilbert J. ..Modem Languages—retired 
of the new men who are joining the Craig, William Mathematics Notre Dame, family. 

' Davis, Lt. Cmdr. J. B J>}aval Science DeVogelaere, Rene Mathematics 
Many of those who are Iea\'ing, like Donlon, Francis G English many other members of families around Dugas, Amedee Modem Languages 
the world, came, remained, and are ' Eschbacher, Robert English 
leaving, unheralded by the horns of the Fallon, Jerome Communication Arts •world, but engraved on many of its 

Findlay, James E Engr. Drawing Finnegan, Cyril Biology hearts, in the real richness of the teach­' Ford, George W Physics ing tradition. JEA Goulet, Alfred .Bus. Administration 
* Horan, Frank W Civil Engr.—retired Jump, John Biology Kiley, Roger _ Xaw FACULTY ON LEAVE 
Kleinsmith, Capt. Joseph F. Air Science 1958-59 
Kreilkamp, Karl Philosophy Lewis, Robert R Physics 
NAME DEPARTMENT 

Anderson, Wayne Business Administration Madden, Thomas P. English—retired 
' Lu, Rev. Matthias Philosophy 
Ardito, David ^Architecture •* Mahler, Kurt Mathematics 
Bennett, William English (1st semester) McGraw, Joseph Architecture 
ElicI, Ernest. Chemistry (1st semester) ' Morin, Paul : English 
Foecke, Harold Electrical Engineering Owen, Oliver Biology 
Francis, E. K. Sociology Pap, Michael S Political Science 
Horrigan, James O. .: Accounting Parravano, Giuseppe Chem. Engineering 
Houck, John W business Administration ' Patton, George T Bus. Administration Heubsch, William Mathematics Quagliano, James ......Chemistry 
Jenkins, James A Mathematics ' Rauch, Robert J. English 
•Kellenberg, Conrad Law Richter, Elton E ...Law—retired 
Kennedy, John . Political Science 

LaSalle, Joseph P. .Mathematics Schoenherr, Karl Engineering 
* Schaerf, C.S.C, Rev. Philip —English 
Lauer, Kenneth R Civil Engineering Eeelye, Donald Business Administration 
Leahy, Eugene J Music Shanley, Rev. Bernard E .-..Religion 
Malone, John R Marketing (not definite) ' Skolem, Thoralf Mathematics 
Niemeyer, Gerhart •- Political Science Slabey, Robert M English 
Nims, John F English ' True, Herbert Marketing 
Papin, Rev. Joseph Jleligion Wallace, George Finance 
Parzen, George :.-- Jhysics V/ard, Joseph English 
Smith, Edmund A. ..Business Administration ter Haar, John A Modern Languages 

Ward, Thomas J ..Physics Wilcox, Milton L Electrical Engineering 
Taylor, Jerome English Williams, Rev. John F. „ ReligipD 
Waldman, Bernard Physics 

INCOMING FACULTY 1958 59 
NAME DEPARTMENT 
Amiteur, S. A. -. Mathematics 
Baker, C.S.C, Rev. Harry P. Religion Bastien, James W. : Alusic Bella, Salvatore J. Bus. Administration Bertier, Rev. Guillaume de 1.. LHistory Bilkey, .Warren J Economics Brademas, T. Brooks Archaeology Brannan, Robert L. English Breitfuss, Alfred Modem Languages Bronkley, Jr., Geo. A Political Science 
Carey, C.S.C, Rev. Charles Jleligion Chang, Yan-Pao Engineering Science Coffee, Thomas M. Sociology Crowley, Daniel J. '. ^^.Sociology 
DeGiorgis, Hugues .--Modem Languages DeKoninck, Charles Philosophy (first semester only") 
Eakin, Carl T. .Bus. Administration Fairley, William M. Geology Funk, Jr., Xmerson G. - Physics 
Giannone, Richard J English Goglia, Mario J. : Engineering—^Dean Gordon, Robert E. -Biology Graf, Gerard E 3iology 
Taggin, Joseph H. S. Chem. Engineering Hallinan, Thomas J. Finance Hart, USN, Lt. Harry S Jfaval Science Hennessey, C.S.C, Rev. Thomas Religion 
Johnson, Walter R^ Physics 
Kempf, Kenneth R Electrical Engineering Kereszturi, Rev. Edmond Religion Kramer, .Walter Marketing 
Lichenstein, .Charles M. Political Science Lopresti, Pliilip V. Electrical Engineering Lordi, Robert J English Lyon, Richard M. Bus. Administration 
McGrath, C S. C , Rev. JosejA Asst. Dean, Graduate School Mcintosh, Robert P. 3iology 
Nicholson, Lewis M..'. English 
Nogosek, Rev. Robert J Jleligion. 
Pollock, Rafael A. English 
Raven, Francis H. Mech. Engineering Reeve, James Key.; Curator, Art Galleries Richard, Ralph M. .:. Civil Engineering Sayre, Kenneth M -Philosophy Scolieri, Capt. Anthony Air Science Sharrock, Roger •, English 
(first semester only) Sim, Herbert E. _.•. l_...Financc Snow, Robert J. Music-Liturgy Spencer, Terence J. English Staehle, USN, Lt. John H Naval Science Stem, Louis L. .Marketing StoU, John Edward English 
Thomas, O.P., Rev. Ivo Philosophy (first semester only) Tweedell, Kenyon S. . Biology 
Warner, W. Lloyd ^.—Sociology White, John Thomas . Art Wilson, Francis Political Science 
(second semester only) 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
"^^ss^^^m^^^^-- ""* 



!1 mm 

UNIVERSITY. SCHOOL BEGINS: Notre Dame be­gan its 117th academic year September 24 with registration for the last of its 6,000 students. About 1,500 freshmen completed a six-day orien­tation in the academic, spiritual and social life of the campus MARITAIN CENTER FOUNDED: A center for philosophical research honoring Thomist philosopher Jacques Moritain is being established at the University. Father Hesburgh predicts that it will become a place of "sig­nificant philosophical activity and publication." Housed in the Library, the new Moritain Center will be under the direction of Dr. Joseph W. Evans, associate professor of philosophy, and will catalog Maritoin's writings. . . . MAINTE­NANCE BUILDING STARTED: A half-million dollar maintenance center and warehouse is being 
erected to replace the old shop buildings dating from the University's early years. The one-story buff brick structure will house several shops, a warehouse and garage on the northeast corner of the campus. . . . LOBUND GRANTS RENEWED: Renewal of grants from the National Institutes of Health, the U. S. Army and the Common Cold Foundation, totalling about $100,000, at Notre Dame's Lobund Institute was announced by Francis X. Bradley, Jr., acting administrative di­rector, while an additional $55,000 in govern­ment grants were allocated for new germfree research by Drs. James A. Reyniers, Thomas Word, Philip C. Trexler, Helmut A. Gordon, Bernard S. Wostmonn and Morris Wagner. Reyniers, Ward and Gordon presented papers at Stockholm's In­ternational Congress of Microbiology in August, while Wostmonn addressed Vienna's International Congress of Biochemistry in September. . . . CITY PLANNING PROGRAM: An undergraduate pro­gram in city planning has been inaugurated by the architecture department by Prof. Frank Mon­tana, department head, to acquaint architecture students with the problems of urban development. Gty planner T. Brooks Brademas has joined the department as a visiting assistant professor. 
FACULTY-ADMINISTRATION. SERMON TO FAC­ULTY: Nearly five hundred faculty members were exhorted to "combine the highest technical com­petence with a thorough integration of the spiri­tual values which bring intelligent purpose to our efFort." Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., reaffirmed the University's spiritual commitment but em­phasized that Notre Dame "is first and foremost a university," recognizing that there is "a con­stant danger of substituting piety for learning," 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
which "is'obviously not to say that we should secularize our learning process." Scene was the Annuel Faculty Mass, celebrated by Rev. Chester Soleta, vice president for academic affairs. . . , CURATOR APPOINTED: James Key Reeve, a specialist in art history, has been appointed curator of the Notre Dome art gallery to succeed retiring Paul Byrne. Formerly associated with Raymond & Raymond gallery and a docent on modern architecture at New York's Museum of Modern Art, Mr. Reeve will also serve as an as­sistant professor of art. . . . SALARY AID: Notre Dame is one of 125 private institutions sharing a $125,000 grant for 1958 from the Equitable Life Assurance Society for the improvement of faculty salaries. . . . JAPANESE LECTURER: Very Rev. Francis K. Numazawa, S.V.D., president of Nanzan University, Nagoya, Japan, lectured in October comparing Japanese and Western culture. . . . PLACEMENT PROGRESS: Rev. Louis Thornton, C.S.C, director of placement, who was entertain­ment co-chairman for the ninth annual conference of the Midwest College Placement Assn., has pre­pared a booklet "Campus Interviews" containing 64 pages of information on prospective employers holding interviews on campus. . . . ANTHROPOL­OGIST APPOINTED: W. Lloyd Warner, University of Chicago social anthropologist, a foremost authority on American class structure, is a visit­ing professor in the sociology department this semester. . . . JUMP JUMPS: Dr. John Jump, as­sociate professor of biology, has been named chairman of the biology department at Elmhurst College, Elmhurst, III. 
STUDENTS. VACCINE VOLUNTEERS: Approxi­mately 2,600 students volunteered in October to receive innoculations in pioneering tests of the new common cold vaccine developed by Dr. Thomas G. Ward, research professor of virology at the University's Lobund Institute, and other scientists. The vaccine contains strains of several common cold viruses, previously tested individu­ally, and Dr. Ward hopes it will reduce the num­ber of common colds by 60 to 70 per cent. A third of the students received a sterile solution as a cross-check. Tests will continue through the school year, with records kept of all colds con­tracted. . . . NATIONAL STUDENT LEADERS: The election of a Notre Dame man to head each of two national student organizations drew praise from Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C, vice president for student affairs. Michael Phenner, Appleton, Wis., a senior in Arts and letters, was name*) 
.« 

ATOJ-*'; 
•---lIIIIM>i.''l iMiim: ;i 
• r..•••"', < 
president of the National Federation of Catholic College Students at its 15th annual congress in San Francisco. Robert Kiley, a 1957 Commerce graduate, was installed as president of the Na­tional Student Association at the organization's annual convention at Ohio Wesleyan University. Othei Notre Dame students leading NFCCS affairs include John Haywar, Toledo, Ohio, who ad­ministers the National Catholic Action Study Bureau, and Thomas Greene, Detroit, Mich., presi­dent of the NFCCS Fort Wayne region. . . . FORD, SLOAN SCHOLARS: John H. Bridges, Dearborn, Mich., and James P. Gannon, Philadelphia, Pa., have entered Notre Dame as recipients of four-year Ford Fund scholarships to sons of Ford Motor Company employees. At least two Ford scholars have entered Notre Dame each year since the fund was established in 1951. Sixteen are now at the University, representing the largest total at any school outside Michigan. Raymond 
K. O'Hara, Brooklyn, N. Y., has entered as one of 127 scholars to thirty-two colleges and uni­versities supported by the Alfred P. Sloan Foun­dation of New York City. 
RELIGIOUS. PRIESTS TYPICAL TEENS: Rev. Joseph 
H. Rchter, visiting professor of sociology, reported that the majoriry of America's future priests come from average-size middle-class families, have dates, participate in sports, graduate from a hometown high school before entering the semi­nary, and have at least one relative in the priest­hood or religious life. The findings were disclosed in an address on "Sources of Priestly Vocations" at the 11 th Vocation institute. The University Press will soon issue Father Fichter's study on American parish life. . . . SECULARIZATION SCORED: The greatest handicap to the acceptance of God's call to the priesthood or religious life is the secularization of Catholic homes. Bishop Albert Zuroweste of Belleville, III., declared in a keynote address to the summer Vocation Institute, which had "The Sociology of Vocations" as its theme. . . . COMMUNITIES MUST ADAPT: Cath­olic religious communities, while "firmly rooted in the faith," must become adaptable to modern conditions and present, according to Bishop Lawrence Shehan of Bridgeport, Conn., keynoting the sixth annual Institute of Spirituality on campus in August. He told 500 superiors of women's religious communities that the Church needs "not so much the multiplication of new societies, but rather the spirit of flexibility and adaptability which enables existing organizations to grow and to adapt themselves to the varying needs of each generation." . . . NOVICES PROFESSED: Seventy-two men from nine states and two foreign countries participated in investiture and profes­sion ceremonies of the Congregation of Holy Cross at Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn., in mid-August. 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiii iiiitiiiiinii iiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

Ne^oitU NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL 
(Continued from page 8) 

pay the entire interest himself. 
The loans will be due one year after graduation at which time arrange­ments will be made for repayment in installments over a suitable period, pro­vided interest payments have been kept current. 
The program is supported by a guar­antee fund of $2,500, provided by the Notre Dame Law Association. Any losses wliich may be incurred will be charged against this guarantee fund, and lending by the bcink will be dis­continued whenever, and for as long as, the amount on hand in the guar­antee fund is less than 5 per cent of the total loans outstanding. This 5 per cent cover, it is believed, should be ample in view of the experience at other universities where losses on loans to law students have never exceeded 1 per cent. 

Natural Law Forum 

Since the last issue of the ALUMNUS, Dean Edward H. Levi of The Uni­versity of Chicago Law School, Pro­fessor C. J. Friedrich of Harvard Uni­versity and Professor Wilber G. Katz of The University of Chicago Law School have accepted appointment to the Editorial Board of the Natural Law Forum, published each spring imder the auspices of the Natural Law In­stitute. Editor-in-Chief of the Forum is Professor Anton-Hermann Ciiroust. 

Kirkland Scholar Chooses Notre Dame 

John C. Hirschfeld, '58, of Cham­paign, Illinois, was awarded one of the Weymouth Kirkland Law Scholarships. These scholarships are provided by the trustees of the Robert R. McCormick Charitable Trust in recognition of the long association of Colonel McCor­mick, late publisher of the Chicago Tribune, with Mr. Kirkland of the Chicago Bar, who was iiis close friend and adviser. The scholarsiiips are granted for the study of law in certain selected law schools in the area known as "Chicagoland," which comprises Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan and Wisconsin. They cover tuition and in­clude an allowance for living expenses. The recipient of a Kirkland Scholar­ship is permitted to select the law school he wishes to attend, subject to the approval of the Committee on Awards. Mr. Hirschfeld chose Notre Dame. 
Mr. Hirschfeld was graduated summa cum laude from the College of Arts and Letters last June. His average was 
95.95. That he was not a "grind," hcnvever, is evident from the fact that he was Chairman of the Blue Circle Honor Society, a member of the Stu­dent Senate and Conmiander of the Army ROTC Brigade. He was also a member of the Notre Dame debate team and won the Outstanding Notre Dame Debater Award for 1956-57. 


Faculty Notes 

Professor Edward F. Barrett spoke on "The Law and the Layman's Re­sponsibilities" before the Optimist Club of South Bend on September 23. 
Professor Bernard J. Ward, Jr., ad­dressed the Michigan State Bar As^ sociation at Grand Rapids on Septem­ber 30. His subject was "The Role of the Supreme Court in the American Constitutional System." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 11 
4F 

At head fable for dinner (1. to r.): Host Frederick B. Snite, Sr.; Club President Jack ^^orIcy, Sports Editor John P. Car­
niichael, Rev. Charles Coach Terry Brennan Sporiscaster Jack Drees." 



Chicago Golf Outing Typifies Organized Efforts for Events 
(Ed. Note: This golf outing is presented as typical of the smooth, efficient operation and effective public relations of similar events conducted by the Cleveland, Detroit, Indianapolis, St. Joseph Valley, Washington, D. C, and other Notre Dame Clubs. —J. L.) 
by DON WEBER, '49 
The Chicago Club's Annual Golf Tournament and Sportsnight Dinner was one not to be forgotten .. . a record attendance, spectacular prizes, a laugh a minute, and plenty of gimmicks to keep the show rolling. 
A holc-in-one on No. 18 could have brought a Chris-Craft or Chc\y Impala convertible (both prizes were dis­played alongside the green) to the lucky man . . . and Roger O'Connor, '49, gave the crowd a thrill with a foot­and-a-half near miss! 
Club President, Jack Morlcy, '35, picked a pile-driver of a chainnan in Joe Archibald, '50, to head the affair, held August 4th at Chicago's picturesque Elmhurst Country Club. 
Early golfers and dinner-only guests watched all the excitement on the 18th via closed circuit TV between the green and the clubhouse. Nimibers on the players' backs and a walkie-talkie setup between the tee and the green simplified identification for the TV announcer who also inteiviewed celebrities as they completed their rounds. 
Simultaneously, films of the great 1935 Ohio State-Notre Dame game and highlights of the 1949 and 1957 seasons were being shown in a clubhouse projection room. 
Top golf honors went to Art Arquilla, '50, with a low gross, trophy-taking 70. Jim Celano, '53, in defense of his 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
 Carey, C.S.C.;  (at mike) and 

J 
Chicago Club Champion was Art Arquilla, '50, with low-gross 70 on sporty Elmhurst course. 
two-leg claim on Colonel Fred Snite's three-time trophy, 
ran a close second with 73. 
An all-you-could-eat roast beef bufTet dinner, with a speakers' card consisting of Bo.\ing's No. 1 Sportscaster, Jack Drees, Daily News Sports Editor, John Camiichael, and Terr)' Brennan topped off the evening. Other guests included University Administrators Father Charles Carey, Father John Wilson and Father McDonough along with Edward Krause, Hunk Anderson, Irish Coach Bill Fischer, Chicago Cardinals' President Charles "Stormy" Bidwill, Elmhurst Country Club Owner Fred B. Snite, Sr., George Connor, John Lattner, Fred, "Buddy" Reynolds, Ziggj-Czarobski, Marty Wendell, Hank Pojman, Joe Zwers, Bert Metzger, and Tony Pasquesi. r 
Prizes numbered well over 100, ever\'thing from a $115.00 alarm wrist watch to a day-at-the-Arlington-raccs­for-6 (including clubhouse bo.\ and §25.00 to put on noses). 
(Continued on page 23) 
r/ 



ALUMNI CLUB of CHICAGO TOURNAMENT and SPORTSNIGHT DINNER 
Bill Higgins in vain attempt to learn "iloosc" Connor's iinal score in intcn-iew on 18th gr£cn. 
Student Insurance Program 
Pre-Med Student Ronald Telk 
Available at University 

Saves Child's Life in Denver 
Ronald Telk, a 20-year-old junior in pre-med, is a hero to Mrs. Alice DeWitt, mother of an infant son in Denver, Colo. 
Ronald, home from his sophomore year at Notre Dame and work&g as a relief mail carrier for the summer, came to the aid of Mrs. DeVVitt July 17 when her seven-week-old son choked on a dose of vitamins. 
The young mother said she ran from the house with the child, %yho had be­come unconscious. Ronald was deliver­ing mail next door. 
Ron said he sized up the situation" "by instinct, I guess" and snatched the boy from the mother's arms. 
"I put him on the ground and breathed in and out of his mouth," he said. "Then I put him over my shoulder and he began breathing nor­mally again." 
Young Telk, who longs to be a doc­tor, considered his feat nothing out of the ordinary. 
But Mrs. DeWitt didn't agree. She was impressed, thought people ought to know what Ron had done, and called the Denver Post. 
It took two days for the Post to track Ronald down and get his version of the life-saving act. He was reluctant to talk about it. 
'T)on't make too much of this," he said. 
On July 26 Ron was featured in the Denver Post "Gallery of Fame" along \\dth musicomedian Cyril Ritchard and Cynthia Cullen, "Miss Colorado of 1958." 
Hearing of the incident. Dean Law­rence Baldinger of the College of Science wrote to Ron praising his cool quickness in emergency as well as his modesty. "While what we have done for you here at Notre Dame had noth­ing to do with your splendid action," he \vTote, "I do want you to know that we appreciate being able to bask a bit in the reflected glory . . . and .. . be­ing able to say that you are one of our premedical students." 
One of the important developments of recent years is the program of stu­dent insurance, a field of particular interest to alumni parents now and in the immediate years ahead when all costs of education will be essentially higher. 
For the fifth consecutive year the Continental Casualty Company of Chi­cago, Illinois, is offering Notre Dame students a health and accident insur­ance plan which is outstanding in its ratio of premium benefits. Each year, since the plan was initiated in 1953, * the Company has increased the bene­fits while maintaining the original premium of $21.00 for 12 months. Students who enroll in the plan late or at mid-semester are offered a pro > rata premium of $1.75 per month. 
The accident provision of the plan is unallocated and has a per accident * limit of $1,000.00. Sickness benefits can total more than $4,000.00 per sick­ness; composing this maximum are ^ hospital room and board, surgeons' fees, nurses' fees, a schedule for opera- '' tions, doctor visits, and miscellaneous hospital expenses. There is also a $5,000.00 Dread Disease Benefit, a « $2,000.00 Death Benefit, and a dis­memberment clause with $2,000.00 as the maximum payment. No physical ^ examination is required for enrollment. Since it is a twelve-month plan, the * student is covered while he is at home, at school, or traveling. 
Participation in the plan has more than doubled in the four completed i years of operation. More than 500 claims are paid annually; claims up to. A $7,000.00 and less than $1.00 have been paid. The participation goal set for this year is sixty per cent of the insurable student body. 
For the second year, Lee D. Lagessie, "• Merrill, Wisconsin, married and a ^__ junior in the College of Arts and Let­lers, is acting as the Campus Repre- »! sentative for the plan, which has an office in the LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, Indiana. ^ 
The Alumn! Association Board of Directors met in July and stayed to participate in tlie It is the only accident and health ^ Club Presidents' Council. Seated {rom left: James E. Armstrong, Notre Dame, secretary; plan offered specifically to Notre 
J. Patrick Canny, Cleveland, Ohio, honorary president; Edmond R. Haggar, Dallas, Tex., 
Dame students. When University of­dub nee president; Eugene M. Keimedy, Los Angeles, Calif., class vice president; Francis ficials accepted this plan in 1953 it L. Layden, E>°ansville, Ind., president. Standing, from left: James H. Shiels, New York, was designed to be of maximum value N. Y.; Joseph R. Stewart, Kansas City, Mo.; William E. Cotter, Duluth, Minn., and Jules 
K. de !a Vergne, New Orleans, La. to students and parents alike. 
74 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
with university course credit and e.x-

Youths' Speech Problems Fewer 
perience in speech correction, both working individually with the boys and 

Since Clancy, '21, * Lowered Boom' 
in groups. 
From 1932 to 1949 the Clancys led 
By DAVE SMITH 

{Pictures and text courtesy of The University of Michigan News Service.) 
Ann Arbor, Mich. — Hundreds of boys and young men with speech prob­lems can be thankful that Notre Dame University's John N. Clancy (Ph.B.'21) "lowered the boom." 
Clancy is 

P5*^E ' "-^?^l3H rector of The 
ISM-'tSil^^^^ University of 
Michigan 
Speech Improve­
ment Camp and 
living proof that 
speech problems 

John N. Clancy can be licked. He's a recovered stutterer. 
Throughout St. Francis grade and high school in John's hometown of Traverse City (Mich.) and even at Notre Dame, he had to cope with a severe stuttering problem. 
"All I knew was that I had to ex­perience overcoming my stuttering by trying to condition my new speech pat­terns into various speech contacts," he says today. This same principle is and has been applied through the years at John Clancy's speech camp. 
At Notre Dame — where .John was graduated in a class of but 112 men—•' the door was opened for many extra­curricular activities. But, he explains, "You either had to condition your speech or hand up your cue. I held on to my cue." 
For ten years after leaving Notre Dame, where he majored in commerce, Clancy worked in the business world 
— as a statistician, credit manager, and cost accountant. 
The one cold December day in the Depression year of 1931 Clancy "low­ered the boom" and announced to his wife Grace: 
"We're eating and paying the rent, but I'd like to open a boys camp for kids with speech problems." Grace answered: "O.K." 
The following Spring the Clancys— with Grace as camp mother — opened their camp at Northport on beautiful Grand Traverse Bay some 25 miles north of John's hometown. It was the first camp in the nation devoted exclusively to boys with speech prob­lems. Four boys attended the first sum­mer and total fee receipts amounted to $925 . . . slightly more than John needed as a down-pajTfnent on the 26­acre site. 
This past summer, 85 boys from 21 states attended the eight-week session at "Shady Trails," as the camp is called. The '58 budget, by comparison," was about $42,000. 
In all approximately 1,600 boys ranging in age from 8 to 21 have at­tended Clancy's camp during its 27 years of operation. 
Although The University of Mich­igan didn't acquire the camp until 1949 (through support of the Kresge Foundation), from the outset Shady Trails has been linked, in some way, with the U-M Speech Clinic where John now serves as assistant director. 
In 1936 John enrolled in the U-M School of Graduate Students and re­ceived his master of arts degree in speech correction the following sum­mer. Having worked part-time at the Speech Clinic he continued as a full-time clinician and promoted the speech camp "after hours." 
U-M speech correction students and instructors began working at Clancy's camp soon after it opened. One pre­doctoral student spent three summers there. His name: Dr. Harlan H. Bloomer, now Director of the U-M Speech Clinic and a close personal friend of the Clancys. . 
Other students who worked at John's camp included Dr. Harold Westlake, head of Northwestern University's De­partment of Communicative Disorders, and Dr. Darrell Mace, Co-ordinator of Clinical Services, University' of Florida. 
The tremendous growth of interest in the nation's speech problems is evidenced by the several thousand-member American Speech and Hearing Association (ASHA). 
John Clancy, one of a handful hon­ored as "fellows" in the ASHA (Dr. Bloomer is also a fellow), recalls: In 1932 when I joined there were only 29 o£ us in the ASHA." 
By way of contrast, the camp staff alone at Shady Trails numbers 36, in­cluding 18 speech correctionbts. In addition, 12 internships are offered each year for graduate students in speech correction. Though the pay is small, the camp course prowdes these students a hectic life. He recalls: "Grace and I went for 17 years without a vacation —that is unless you consider our camp­ing experiences. But these were hardly what one would call 'vaca­tions.' " 
In 1945 ground was broken and con­struction begun on a new camp area. It was completed two years later. Pre­viously all activities had centered around a leased hotel which had been abandoned during the depression. To­day 17 buildings are available at Shady Trails for a maximum 90 boys. 
The Clancys were visited in 1948 by Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Kresge of the Kresge Foundation. Impressed by their work, Kresge suggested that the camp be turned over to a non-profit organi­zation supported by the Foundadon. 
Accordingly, John's interest was pur­chased and in 1949 the camp became The University of Michigan Speech Improvement Camp with Clancy con­tinuing as director. 
Thus ended the diminutive Irish­man's struggles for scholarship funds for boys who needed but couldn't af­ford the up-to-date facilities of the camp. As John puts it, "Our boys come from both sides of the tracks." 
Of necessity the camp is limited to those with functional difficulties of articulation such as stuttering, and to organic problems such as post-operadve cleft palate. 
Its primary' objective, says John, is 

John Clancy confers with a small camper at camp at Northport, Michigan, operated by "Shady Trails," his speech improvement the University of Michigan. 
Notrt Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 IS 
to build confidence in tlie youngsters. "If a young fellow can't speak right he loses confidence in" practically ever}'­thing he does. We emphasize sports at 



Business Briefs 
Shady Trails and close contact witli 
others who have speech problems to 
build the boy's confidence." 
During a typical day each boy spends 
a few hours in sports under professional 
super\'ision. Four and a half hours are 
spent in speech correction classes and 
time is also set aside for indiNddual 
therapy. 
Perhaps the most popular activity in camp is the "open forum" in which the boys present and debate problems 
— "a good way to get them to talk," as John says. The campers also visit nearby towns and report their activities at the popular after dinner speaking sessions in the camp's main lodge. 
What success has John Clancy had with his boys? "We like to think we've been very successful," he says. "We've had a couple of our boys graduate from .Annapolis, one is now a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technolog)', and another, now a pediatrician, was graduated from the Har\'ard Medical School." 
In Shady Trails where ever)' religion is represented, one of the boys com­posed this line which is said before each meal: "For health and strength and daily food we give our thanks." 

A tradition of Notre Dame Alumni sup­port for the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdcs, begun with its erection by Rev. Thomas Carroll of Oil City, Pa., in 1896; was continued in 1958 by Robert L. Ham­ilton, '34. Bob recently undertook the paving of (he grounds leading to this favo­rite shrine of generations of Notre Dame men. Tradition names Father Carroll as donor of the first University scholarship. 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
WilUam B. Chawgo, '31, formerly auditor, 
has been named business manager of the 
Aurora Beacon-News, -Aurora, 111. 
A native of 
.Aurora, Bill was 
with the internal 

revenue service • from 1934 to 1942 
as a division chief. 
Kc went to the 
Beacon-News as 
cashier in 1942. 
A member of the 
Scrra Club and 
trustee of the Fox 
William B. Chawgo River Valley Plea­
sure Driveway and Park District, Bill is 
chairman of the .Aurora Notre Dame Club 
Scholarship Committee and active in the 
Community Chest. 
Bill and Wife Margaret have two sons, 
John, 16, and Vincent, 14. 
Richard McCarthy, '51, the father of two 
children, Richard, Jr., 2, and Patricia, I, 
was promoted to auditor of the Beacon-
News. 
Bom in Evans­
ton, Dick came to 
.Aurora as assistant 
auditor of the news­
paper in 1953. fol­
lowing two years 
service in the army 
finance corps. 
Dick is a mem­
ber of the Serra 
Club and the Notre Richard P. McCarthy 
Dame Club of .Aurora. Last year he was publicity chair­man for the Community Chest. He lives in Aurora with his wife Marilyn and the children. 
Gordon T. Bethune, '42, has been ap­
pointed assistant comptroller of U. S. 
Steel's Oliver Iron Mining Division. 
A native of Proc­
tor, Minnesota 
Gordon joined 
Oliver in 1942 as 
a clerk in the 
Canisteo district 
headquarters at ^i'-C0^ 
Coleraine. 
He was trans­
ferred to the Di­
vision's ' Gogebic 
headquarters at 
Gordon T. Bethune Ironwood, Mich­igan, as a cost clerk in 1946 and a year later became head bookkeeper there. In .1948 he came to the Duluth general office as a cost analyst in the Accounting Depart­ment and in 1951 adx'anccd to the post of assistant supervisor of cost and statistics. He was made supcr\'isor of cost and sta­tistics in 1956 and served in this capacity until receiving his present appointment. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bethune have four children and reside at 4802 Peabody Street, Duluth. They are members of St. Michael's Church. Mrs. Bethune is the former Lucille -A. Vet­ter of New Ulm, Minnesota. 
Sam Bozich, '40, has been promoted to 
foreman of the polymerization unit at the 
Butyl Rubber Plant at Humble' Oil & Re-
fini-'-j 'Company's 
Baytown, Texas, 
refincrj'. 
Sam served in 
the Air Corps, at­
taining the rank 
of Captain. He 
joined Humble's 
Technical Service 
Division at Bay-
town early in 
1946. 
Sam Bozich 
Sam has worked 
on problems associated with the naptha re­
run units and the rubber plants, and was 
active in the start-up and early operation 
of Humble's paraxj-lcne plant; para.\ylene . 
is a raw material used in manufacturing '• 
Dacron. For the past 18 months he has; 
ser\-ed in Humble's Executive Development'; 
Program -as assistant general foreman of-
the Solvents Department. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bozich live in Baytown at. 
1301 Elm Street. '; 

John B. O'DonnclI, '38, has been ap-;. pointed manager of highway product sales for Aluminum Company of America. . John's previous assignment was in Alcoa's market de­velopment program under the com­pany's Vice Presi­dent F. J. Close. .A native of Pitts­burgh, he joined Alcoa in 1949 as a member of the 
advertising depart- John B. O'Donnell 
ment, following 
previous industrial and agency experience 
in this field. 

During the past nine years John has • been responsible for promotional and market development effort in behalf of a broad | range of Alcoa products, including arch!- .' tcctural, agricultural, and foil applications. ( He was advertising promotion super\'isor in .' charge of the initial campaign to launch , Alcoa Wrap household foil, and has directed the company's unprecedented full-page alumnium foil insertions in metropolitan 'daily newspapers. He also was in charge , of the promotion of the Alcoa Building, ': the world's first aluminum skyscraper and V 
forerunner of hundreds of similar-aluminum ; curtain wall structures. JV. 
Thomas R. Francis, '49, a salesman in J; the Chicago branch of the Glass Container | Division of Owens-Illinois Glass Company | 
since 1949, has 
been promoted to 
branch manager of 
the company's To­
ledo, Ohio, ofiice. 
Tom Joined 
Owens-Illinois in 
1949 following his 
graduation fro m 
the University of 
Notre Dame, and 
was assigned to the Thomas R. Francis 
Chicago branch 
after completing his sales training. He has been making his home in Highland Park, Illinois. 
Clevelanders to Fete Bishop Hallinan, '32 
Cleveland alumni planned a No­vember 6 testimonial dinner for Bishop Paul J. Hallinan, '32, named Bishop of Charleston, South Carolina, in one of the last appointments of the late Pope Pius XII. 
Bishop Hallinan was consecrated in Cleveland in late October. An Arts and Letters graduate of Notre Dame, he completed gradtiate studies in American Historj' at John Carroll and Western Reserve Universities. He has been a teacher, assistant pastor, army chaplain, and most recently, as a Monsignor, director of the Intercol­legiate Newman Club in Cleveland. 
"It could only happen in America," says George Coury, '28, Miami broker, of his life story. George, whose gift of $100,000 will be used to establish a student loan fund at the University, recalled that he was enabled to complete his studies at Notre Dame by a fortuitous loan. The son of an itinerant peddler, born in Lebanon and reared in Oklahoma, George rose from messenger in a securities firm to his present industrial and Florida real estate holdings. 




The California School Tax 
When Californians go to the polls in November they will be asked to vote for or against the adoption of a proposed amendment to the California State Con­stitution. Briefly, the question is whether or not to ta.x California's non-profit Protestant, Catholic, Jewish and non-sectarian private schools. It is a highly emotional, explosive question with far-reaching implications. 
For some time now a furious campaign has been raging there to win votes for or against the proposed amendment to tax these schools. At the present time, laws exempting such schools from taxes exist in every state in the union. The Califomin law of exemption for schools dates back to 1951 when the State Legislature of California passed it by the overvvhelming vote of 108 to three, and Governor Earl Warren signed the bill into law. 
Immediately after it became law, the forces opposing tax exemption for private schools circulated a petition for signatures demanding that the law be placed on the ballot for a referendum vote. In November, 1952, the people voted by the slim margin of 1.7 per cent to uphold the law. Opponents next challenged its con­stitutionality in both the California Supreme Court and the Federal Supreme Court. In neither did they win a decision. The last chance open to them was to take the issue to the people again after an intense propaganda campaign. This they have done. 
Although the group most active in promoting the amendment. The CaliforTiians for Public Schools, claim that they are not "anti-anyone," are not vvaging a "re­ligious war," but are merely "pro-public school," their allegations are diificult to believe. 
This group does not represent any established organization of public school teachers or officials. It has never spoken out in support of a single public school bond issue. Some of its.leaders have uttered extremely anti-religious statements, and in a letter sent out with their pamphlets, there is the statement: "Intelligent men know that religion is an insanity-of-mankind." And more in this same vein could be easily quoted from these sources. 
Although Episcopalians, Lutherans, and ^lormons also come in for some abusive treatment, the main attack has been against the Catholic Church. As advocates of the amendment to tax private schools are quick to point out, the Catholic Church is the chief beneficiary of laws exempting non-profit schools from paying taxes. .•Mthough only about 60 per cent of such schools in California are Catholic, these schools account for almost 90 per cent of the students in pri\-ate schools. Some 390 Protestant-affiliated schools as well as over 40 Jewish or non­sectarian schools would also be affected by the proposed amendment. 
In their pre-voting propaganda, some advocates of the amendment to -tax church-supported schools have not hesitated to hurl false charges, to misrepresent facts, and to use every device possible to arouse passion and prejudice. But California Catholics are not alone in the struggle. In spite of ever)- attempt to divide Protestants and Catholics on the issiie, ("Notwithstanding its obvious at­tempts to 'hide behind the skirts' of a sincere but misguided protestant minorit>' group, the Roman Catholic Church has the biggest stake . . . ") more than 1,600 Protestant ministers have joined the fight against ta.xation of private schools. Many of California's leading daily papers have also spoken out in opposition to the amendment. 
The struggle in California will go on until November, but while it does, the rest of the Catholics in the country can't just sit back and watch disinterestedly. As the Californians for Public Schools have already warned us, once they arc successful in California, "We will fight it [the Catholic Church] in the courts! We will fight it in eveo' state of the union! \S'e wiU fight it in Congress! We will fight it in the press! We will fight it ever>-where! We will fight to vvin!" Their success or failure in the California, November elections could have far-reaching consequences for the Church in .America. 
Reprinted with permission from AVE MARIA, Oct. 4, 1958, at the request of the Alumni Board Committee on Religion and Citizenship. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1938 77 
Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort WajTie and Secretary of Labor Mitchell (second and third from left) were the principal speakers at the Fourth Annual Meeting of the National Cath­olic Social Action Conference at Notre Dame September 4 to 7. Others appear­ing on the convention banquet program included (left to right) Very Re»crend Msgr. George Higgins, Director of the Social Action Department, National Catholic Welfare Conference, Washington, D. C; Louis Buckley, Boston, Mass., retiring president of the NCSAC, and Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., Vice President for Business Affairs at Notre Dame. Donald J. Thomian (not pictured) was elected president of the organization by the more than two hundred social action leaders who attended the sessions. 
Aailcmal Gcdmllo Mockii Aotixm. 

Summer is generally thought to be a time when a uniyersity shuts up shop, classrooms collect cobwebs and the only movement is the gentle encroachment of ivy on the walls. 
But at Notre Dame summer has become a season of activity just as intense as autumn through spring and much more varied. This past sununer saw the campus humming from June I Commencement to registration in September, as these pictures testify. 
Right after Commencement came the Holy Cross Priests Retreat, then the Notre Dame Class Reunions, Juaie 6-8. Several small conferences preceded the opening of the Summer Session on June 23, and from then on there was never a lull. 
Subsequent events included: meetings of the History Teachers Club, June 27-29; the Holy Cross Fathers' Education Conference, July 1-2; the Vocation Institute, July 17­20; meetings of the Alumni Board, July 24; the Biennial Council of Alumni Club Presi­dents, July 25-27; Summer School Com­mencement, August 5; the Institute of Spiri­tuality, August 6-12; the Catholic Band­masters Convention, ."August 8-9; the Cath­olic Student Mission Crusade Convention, August 21-24; the Christian Family Move­ment Convention, August 28-30, and the National Catholic Social Action Conference, Sept. 4-7. 
Lank Smith, '50, (right) president of the Notre Dame Club of Dallas, registers for the three-day Biennial Council of Alumni Club Presidents, July 25-27. With him are (I. to r.) Justin McDonough, registration worker; Dick Hyland, '50, Boston Club president, and Leo 
Bamhorst, '49, president of the Indianapolis Club. 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
Bishop Leo A. Pursley (far right) of Fort Wayne, Ind., joined prelates from China, India and the Philippines to welcome 3,000 educators, missionaries and students convened for the 18th national meeting of the Catholic Students' Mission Crusade August 21-24. 

QcdU&lic Mtadenii, 


Ie{i: Qaimllc 

Three budding musicians struggle mightily in the bass section rehearsing for the concert M'hich climaxed the band camp of the Catholic Bandmasters Convention in early August. 
Archbishop Owen .McCann (center) of Capetown, South Africa, was one of the speakers who greeted the 600 families gathered on campus the last week end of August for the 10th annual convention of the Christian Family Movement. The Archbishop chats with Mr. and Mrs. John L. Carey (left). South Bend CFM leaders, and Prof; and Mrs. Emerson Hynes, "39, of St. John's College, Minn., who also addressed the international gathering. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 


Varsity Numerical Roster 
No. NAME POSu AGE HT. WT. HOME TO^VN fflCH SCHOOL CLASS 
Dugan, ^Gchael • QB 21 6-1 180 Omalia, Nebr. -Creighton Prep Castln, John QB 19 6.0 175 Okmulgee, Okla. -Okmulgee 
3 *Izo, George QB 20. 6-2 205 Barfaerton, Ohio -Barberton -Jr. 4 Wilkc. Hcniy FB 20 6-0 195 Hamilton, Ohio -Hiuhilton Catholic . -jr . 5 Luccke, Daniel QB 19 6-0 175 . Los Angeles, Cal. — _ Notre Dame (Sherman Oaks) —So. 6 •While, Donald QB 20 5-11 190 Haverhill, Mass. .Haverhill Jr. 7 Henueghan, William QB 19 6-2 190 Detroit, Mich. _Dc LaSalle : So. & Schmidt, Robert QB 19 6-4 190 Bakctsfield, Cal. _Bakeisiield 
9 QB 190 -Sr. 
"Williams, Robert _ _ 21 6-2 Wilkes-Barre, Pa. _G. A. R 10 *SeIccr, Richard HB 21 5-9 173 Cincinnati, Ohio _Elder II Fardin, Roger QB 18 6-0 190 Clifton, N. J. .aifton 
IS HB 180 
Nebcl, Johti 19 6-0 Mt. Clemens, Mich. _St. Mary's . -So. 
17 HB 180 
Nebel, Williain 19 6-0 Mt. Clemens, Mich. -St. Mary's . 
18 FB 180 
QdjTiiec, . Nonnan 21 5-11 Greensboro, N. C. -Greensboro . 
20 G 205 
Brunette, James ___ 19 5-9 Green Bay, Wis. -Premontre . -So. 
21 HB 185 
Rini, Thomas 20 5-9 Cleveland, Ohio -Benedictine -Jr. 
22 HB 205 
Healy, Patrick 22 6-1 Baltimore, Md. -Loyola -So. 
HB 175 
23 -Mack, William 21 6-0 Allison Park, Pa. -Hampton Township -_ - So. 
24 HB 180 
•Crotty, James 20 5-10 Seattle, Wash. -International Falls, Minn. Jr. 
HB 175 
25 Clark, WiUiam __ _ 19 5-11 Youngstown, Ohio -East So. 
26 HB 180 
Gardner, Ted 20 5-10 Springvale, Afaine -Sanford -So. 
HB 170 
27 ••Reynolds, Frank 21 5-n Oak Park, lU. -Fenwick 
180 

28 Hoch, Michael HB' 20 6-2 175 Richmond, Ind. -Richmond -So. 29 Salsich, Peter HB 21 5-10 SL Louis, Mo. -St. Louis U. (ILS.) 
180 

30 Sanfilippo, Anthony _ HB 20 6-0 North East, Pa -North East 
210 32 
31 

Loop, Paul G 20 6-1 180 Tulsa, Okla. -Cascia Hall -So. 33 •Doyle, Patrick .: HB 20 6-0 200 Sioux City, la. — -Heelan 35 Pring, LavtTence G 20 5-9 185 Salisbury, N. C. --Boyden 
± 

Ratkou^ki, Raymond HB 19 6-1 220 Ridgewood, N. Y. -St. Francis Prep (Brooklyn) 37 Riordan, Michael G 20 6-0 Chicago, HI. -Leo So. 38 Scarpitto, Robert HB 19 5-11 180: Rahway, N. J. -Rahway So. 39 Frederick, Charles _ „ E 22 6-0 190 Fort Thomas, Ky. -Newport (Ky.) Catholic -Sr. 
36 

G
40 •Shulscn, Richard 21 6-0 200 Salt Lake City, Utah -West '. 41 Costa, Donald G 21 5-11 195 EUwood City, Pa. -Lincoln _Sr. 42 *CoIosimo, James 21 6-1 195 £\*eletb, Minn. -Eveleth -Sr. 
E G
43 Pentz, William 19 6-0 190 Charleroi, rPa. -So. 
FB 
44 *Toth, Ronald 21 6-1 205 E. Cleveland, Ohio -Cathedral Latin -Sr. 
HB 
46 **Just, James 21 6-2 190 Milwaukee, Wis. -Don Bosco . _Sr. 
FB 
47 Griffith, Daniel 19 5-10 185 River Forest, HI. -Fenwick 
FB 
48 Hoffman, Charles 19 6-1 190 Northampton, Pa. -Northampton 
FB 
49 180 
O'Leary, Richard 19 6-0 Terrc Haute, Ind. -Schulte 
FB ±50 ^Pietrosante, Nick 21 6-2 215 Ansonia, Conn. -Notre Dame (West Ha\-en) -Sr. 
C
51 215 
•Kurd, David 20 6-2 Three Rivers, Mich. -Three Rivets .
C
52 190 
Beschen, Richard 21 6-1 PhiUdelphia, Pa, -St. Thomas More .
C
53 205 
Linefaa.n, John 19 6-2 Tulsa, Okla. -Casda Hall — -So. 
C
54 200 
Burke, Kevin 21 6-2 Richland, Wash. -Columbia -Sr. 
C
'55 200 
Boyle, Richard 19 6-1 Chicago, HI. -Leo -So. 
C
56 225 
•Scholtz, Robert 20 6-2 Tulsa, Okla. -Marquette -Jr. 
C
57 210 
Gillin, John T 18 6-2 Ardmore, Pa. -Malvern (Pa.) Prep 
58 200 
•Puntillo, Charles (Co-Capu) E 21 6-2 East Chicago, Ind. -Roosevelt -.^^—_ _ -Sr. 
59 185 
Afonahan, Thomas T 20 6-2 Atiola, m. -Areola -So. 
60 225 
Roth,, Richard . G 20 6-5 Toledo, Ohio -Mt. Carmel Seminary .
61 205 62 215 
*»Ecu>Tr, Allen (Co-Capt.) T 21 5-10 New Orleans, La. -Jesuit -Sr. 63 203 
Pietrzak, Robert —___ _ G 20 6-3 Hamtiamck, Mich. -Catholic Cent. (Detroit) -So. 64 200 
•Schaaf, James „ G 21 6-0 Erie, Pa. . . -Cathedral Prep -Sr. 65 185 
Muehlbauer, Alichael G 20 5-10 Buffalo, N. Y. -Canisius . -Jr. 66 
Hubbuch, John G 19 5-11 210 Louisville, Ky. -St. Xavier -So. 67 
•Sabal, Albin T 20 5-11 225 Chicago, HI. -Mendel Catholic -Jr. 68 
••Geremia, Frank . G 21 6-3 200 Sacramento, Calif. -C. K. McClatchey -Sr. 69 •Adamson, Kenneth G 20 6-2 . 210 Douglas, Ariz. -Marist (Atlanta, Ga.) -Jr. 70 Koreck, Robert G 19 6-2 205 Philadelphia, Pa. -Northeast Catholic -So. 71 Nissi, Paul . T 19 6-0 225 HaverlliU, lilass. -HavcrhiU -So. 72 ••Nagurski, Bronko _ T 20 6-1 210 International Falls, Minn. -International Falls . 73 Pakutka,- Ronald _ T IB 6-2 220 Dtlryea, Pa. -Dur^-ca _So. 74 ••Laurence, Donald _ 21 6-1 240 Cleveland, Ohio -Cathedral Latin .
T 75 Romanouski, Ted _ 20 6-3 210 Albany, N. Y. -Schuyler 
E G
76 Lodish, Michael . 20 6-0 215 Detroit, Mich. -Detroit U. (H.S.) -Jr. 
T
77 Pottios, ilyron 19 6-2 215 Van Voorhis, Pa. --Charleroi -So. 
T
78 . Xicolaizi. Robert —. 20 • 6-2 210 Kenosha, Wis. --Mary D. Bradford -Jr. 
T
79 •Ciesielski, Richard _ 21 5-U 215 South Bend, Ind. -S L Joseph -Jr. 
T
SO Gorham, Michael 20 6-3 235 Wilkes-Batie, Pa. -G. A. R. -Jr. 
E
81 "Sdbclli, Joseph ... 19 6-0 225 , Springfield, Afass. -Cathedral 82 •Stickles, Monty E 20 6-4 195 . Poughkeepsie, N. Y. -Poughkeepsie 83 Deigcrt, Daniel E 19 6-3 195 Flint, Mich. -St. John Vianney .
E
84 200 
**.Myere, Can' 21 6-1 Spokane, Wash. -Gonzaga Prep 
. E
85 190 
Flor, OIi\Tr 20 6-2 Seattle, Wash. -Seatde Prep -Jr. 
E 
205 

••Royer, Richard 21 6-2 Cindnnati, Ohio -Elder -_Sr. Baer, Michael 18 6-2 195 Dunkirk, N. Y. -Cardinal Mindszenty Kcbel, Edw-ard' E 20 6-3 225 Mt. Clemens, Mich. _ -St. Mary's : Jr. 
E 
G 
Grancj-, Michael E 19 6-5 200 Chesterton, Ind. -Bishop Noll (Hammond) -. Jr. 
225 

Seaman, Neil T 21 6-1 Bower Hill, Pa. ; -Scott Township (Carnegie) Sr. 
205 

89 ••Wetoska. Robert E 21 6-3 190 Minneapolis, Minn. --D e LaSalle Sr. 90 Manzo, Louis FB 20 6-2 190 Old Forge. Pa, -Old Forge Sr. 91 Rigali, Donald 19 5-10 Oak Park, lU. -Fenwick So. 
92 Gargiulo, Frank 19 6-0 North Bergen, N. J. . -St. Joseph (W. New York, N. J.)_So. 
• Denotes Monograms Won 

.20 ^Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
.il^'^IP. i; 49 4C 9 89 44 88 53 ^ 
r V 84 30 62^ 8S 66 70 57 qo 39 72 41 ^8 27 "^"^ 
•ixt- -iP5' -M _ >al JO* 
E 1 ^ NOTRE^ DAME FIGHTING IRISH: FIRST ROW, left lo right: Adrian Doyle (associate manager), Dick Royer, Lou Manzo, Jim Scbaaf, Gary Myers, pt.), Dick Shulsen, Don Lawrence, Jim Colosimo, Norm Odynlec, Frank Reynolds, z, Paul Loop, Dick Beschcn, Joe King Charles Frederick, Dick Selcer, Mike Du-man, Ken'n Burke, Pete Salsich, Chet Hobert (asso. mgr.). THIRD ROW: Gerry McGrath, Tom Rini, Mike Lodish, Mike Granej- Mickey Gorham, Bob Nicolazzi, Mike Muehlbauer, Dick Ciesiebki, AI Sabal, Monty Stickles, George Izo, Dave Hurd, Ken Adamson, Jim Crotty, Ollie Flor, Ed Nebel, Dan DeiRerl, Don Whit . FOURTH ROW! Tom Gardoclu, Bill Mack, Henry Wilke, Harold Eatinger, 
Bill Henneghan, Tom Monahan, John Castin, Tony SanAlippo, Rich Boyle, Mike Riordan, Bob Korcck, Bob Hetrzak, Joe Scibclli, Charles HofTman, Hugo Ryan, Dick O'Lcao', Mike Bacr, Tom Romanowski, Jim Brunette. FIFTH ROW: Dan Luccke, John Gillin, John Hubbudi. Ray Ratkowski, George Easely, ^ b Scar­pttlo, Dan Griffith, Paul Nissi, Don Rigali, Jim Kane, Hou-ard Clin'ord, Ron Paku tka. Jack Nebel, Bill Nebel, Frank Gargiulo, Bill Clark, Charles Sacher, Myron Fottios, Bill Pcntz, Tom Romans. 

HIGHLIGHTS OF NOTRE DAME ALL-TIME FOOTBALL RECORD 
In 69 seasons of football since 1887, Notre Dame teams have won 441 games, lost 99 1922 „_ 8 
•and tied 34. This is an .817 winning percentage, exclusive of ties. 1923 .._ 9 Under the late Knuts Eockne (1918-1930) „.JJotre Dame won 105, lost 12, tied 5—.898 *1924 ._.. 10 Under Heartley (Hunk) Anderson (1931-33) Notre Dame won 16, lost 9, tied 2—.640 1925 _.. 7 Under Elmer Layden (1934-1940) Notre Dame won 47, lost 13, tied 3—.783 1926 .__ 9 Under Edward McKeever (1944) JSTotre Dame won 8, lost 2—.800 1927 ...-•. 7 Under Hugh Devore (1945) Notre Dame won 7, lost 2, tied 1—.778 1928 _.. 5 Under Prank Leahy (1941-43, 1946-53) J^otre Dame won 87, lost 11, tied 9—.883 *1929 __ 9 Under Terry Brennan (1954-1957) Notre Dame won 26, lost 14—.650 *1930 __ 10 Biggest score for Notre Dame: 1905 Notre Dame 142, American Medical 0 •1931 __ 6 Biggest score under Rockne: 1926 _. JSTotre Dame 77, Beloit 0 1932 _.-_._ 7 Biggest score under Anderson: 1932. ..Notre Dame 73, Haskell 0 1933 ..-._ 3 Biggest score under Layden: 1940 Notre Dame 61, Carnegie Tech 0 
1934 — 6 Biggest score under McKeever: 1944.. Notre Dame 64, Dartmouth 0 
1935 __ 7 

Biggest score under Devore: 1945.. . Notre Dame 56, Iowa 0 tl936 6 
Biggest score under Leahy: 1947 Notre Dame 59, Tulane 6 tl937 6 
Biggest score under Brennan: 1957-..Noti-e Dame 54, Southern Methodist 21 tl938 8 1939 7
Worst defeat of all time: 1944 ..Notre Dame 0, Army 59 Worst defeat under Rockne: 1925.. .Jiptre Dame 0, Army 27 
1940 7 Worst defeat under Anderson: 1933.. .Purdue and Southern California, 19 to 0 
1941 8 

Worst defeat under Layden: 1936 J^otre Dame 0, Pittsburgh 26 1942 7 
Worst defeat under McKeever: 1944 Notre Dame 0, Army 59 
*1943 9 8

Worst defeat under Devore: 1945 Notre Dame 0, Army 48 1944 7Worst defeat under Leahy: 1951 .Notre Dame 0, Michigan State 35 1945 8
•1946 9 

Worst defeat under Brennan: 1956 Notre Dame 0, Oklahoma 40 
*1947 1948 

1956 Notre Dame 8, Iowa 48 
9 *1949 10. Year W L T 1905 5 1950 i­1887 _. 0 10 1906 6 1951 7 1888 .... 1 2 0 1907 6 
-1952 . 7 1889 .... 10 0 1908 8 
1953 9 1954 

1892 .... 1 0 1 1909 .... 7 9 
1893 .„ 4 0 0 1910 4 8
1955 1894 .... 3 2 1 1911 . 6 : 2
1956 1895 _.. 3 1 0 1912 ... 7 7
.1957 1896 .... 4 3 ' 0 1913 : 7 1897 .... 4 11 1914 i : 5 
441 99 34 

1898 .... 4 2 0 1915 7 1899 .... 6 3. 1 1916 .. 8 •National Champions (seven times) 1900 .... 6 3 1 1917 . . 6 -t Western Champions (six times) 1901 .... 8 1 1 1918 . . 3 Undefeated: 18 seasons (1889-1892 
1902 .... 5 2 1 tl919 9 not incl.) 
1903 .... 

8 0 1 tl920 9 Undefeated and untied: 10 seasons 1904 .... 
5 3 0 fl921 10 (1889 not incl.) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 21 
tions of the Republican party, but Taft in­herited the previous tensions and managed to add a few new ones. Gwinn's study is 

NOTRE PAME BOOKS particularly interesting and informative in 
EDUCATION FOR AMERICAN DE­MOCRACY, Edivard J. Power, '47, McGraw Hill Book Co., New York. 415 pp. §5.75. 

In his recent book. Education for Ameri­can Democracy, Edward J. Power traces the major directions and developments in Ameri­can Education and studies many of the re­lationships between formal education and the concept and practice of democracy in this country. As an introductory text. Dr. Power's book admirably meets the qualifica­tions proper to it. Those who teach the introductorj- course in education in Catholic colleges and universities \vill find it of great value. .^1 educators will regard it as an important, and badly needed, contribution to Catholic scholarship in the field of edu­cation. 
A careful, scholarly, objective, and read­able book in its own right, this book will be of special interest to Notre Dame Alumni and friends for t^vo reasons:' 1) Edward J. Power earned both his Master of Arts Degree (1947) and his Doctor of Philos­ophy Degree (1949) in the Education De­partment of the University of Notre Dame. 
2) Dr. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, former Head of the Department of Education at Notre Dame, and now a Professor in the Department of Education, serves as editor of the McGraw-Hill Series in Catholic Edu­cation. Dr. Power's book is the first to ap­pear in this series. If future books in this series measure up to the high standards set for them by Dr. Power and Dr. Kohlbren­ner, the series is sure to be worthwhile and successful. 
Many of the problems analyzed in this book are current and pressing problems to which all .Americans, whether directly in­volved in education or not, should give seri­ous attention.- The entire future of .Ameri­ca will reflect in no small way the ans^vers to the problems of education. Dr. Power confronts these important problems with a rich background of knowledge and with a depth of dear thinking. 
—Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., Head Dept. of Education 

BEHINT) THE SPUTNIKS — A SURVEY OF SOVIET SPACE SCIENCE, Dr. Firmin J-. Krieger, '38, Public Affairs Press, Washington, D. C. 380 pp. $6.00. 
Russia may already have a moon rocket —about 180 feet long, 45 feet in diameter, wt h 20 motors totaling 350 million horse­power. Such a space ship is described in this book by Dr. Krieger, taken from a Russian newspaper article which appeared in 1952, five years before Sputnik I. Other chapters describe atomic devices for rocket propulsion and unmanned "tankettes" with caterpillar treads, to travel over the moon's face and telex-ise details back to earth. 
The book, first of its kind to offer a glimpse of the e.^ent of Soviet rocket and space science, contains 39 technical and popular articles, chiefly by Russians. Dr. Krieger, who taught himself Russian to 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
make the articles available to the English-
speaking public, also lists 339 more pubh'ca­
tions by Russian space scientists, available 
but mostly untranslated. 
Dr. Krieger received his Ph.D. from 
Notre Dame and after World War II was 
a member of a U. S. delegation assigned 
to inter\'iew captured German scientists. He 
has been employed by the Rand Corp. 
According to Toledo Blade Science Editor 
Ray Bruner, the book, although often quite 
documentary, "is fascinating reading for 
space flight enthusiasts and others who 
would like to learn more of activities in 
the Soviet world." 
UNCLE JOE CANNON, ARCHFOE OF INSURGENCY, William Rea Gwinn, '44, Bookmen Associates, New York. 321 pp. $5.00. 
Although Congressional leaders are often among the most famous men of their gene­rations, relatively few of them attain tKe sort of historical fame that makes their names live long beyond their own times. Webster, Clay, and Calhouti are the giants of the Congress whose naiiic» spring im­mediately to mind. Sumner and Stevens from the Reconstruction period are more difBcult to recall and the mention of Czar Reed or Uncle Joe Cannon would probably rouse even fewer memories. This is unfor­tunate, since these men are among the most interesting figures in American history, as William Rea Gwinn's book on Joseph G. Cannon amply demonstrates. 

Gwinn, whose book was originally done as a doctoral dissertation in history at Notre Dame, concentrates on the period 1903­1910 when Cannon was Speaker of the House of Representatives. Cannon's speak­ership was certainly the high point of his career although he served in Congress for forty-six. years. Cannon, * a man who had heard Lincoln and Douglas debate, was, as Gwinn says, a "pioneer American" in the Congress. Perhaps the tradition of pioneer individualism and self-reliance was the source of Cannon's sturdy conservatism in politics. He simply did not believe that America needed as much reforming as the Progressives against whom he contended were trying to give it. He was in fact so conservative that his enemies said that if he had attended the caucus on Creation he would have remained loyal to Chaos. 
But the early years of this century were troubled times for standpat Republican con­ser\'atives like Cannon. Theodore Roosevelt was making an immense amount of racket busting trusts; progressives in Congress and in the states were continually pressing for change and muckraking was the fashion in the popular magazines. In the midst of this fever of reform Cannon presided as the autocrat of the House of Representatives. He exercised to the fullest the rules per­fected by Czar Reed which allowed the Speaker to control the business of the House so closely that the reforming Insurgents were hamstrung. Roosevelt managed to stave off an open split between the two fac­tracing Cannon's part in the breakdown of the Republican party which ultimately led to Roosevelt's taking the field as the Bull Moose candidate against both Taft and WiUon in 1912. 
The crisis came for Uncle Joe in March, 1910. Here in scenes of mid confusion. Cannon was removed from the powerful Rules Committee, one of the principal en­gines through which the Speaker's power was exercised. The Insurgents did not, however, enjoy the fruits of their victory for very long, since the Democrats controlled the House after the election of 1910. Indeed Gwinn presents evidence to show that de­priving the Speaker of his tight control over the House was not so much of a reform as originally had been thought. He argues that the loss of legislative efficiency and the diffusion of the responsibility, formerly cen­tered in the Speaker, weakened party con­trol and left the way open for reducing the role of the House and making it subservient to the executive branch of the government. While this aspect of the book is valuable to the student of politics, the average reader is most indebted to Mr. Gwinn for a highly readable and entertaining account of the methods and personality of Uncle Joe Can­non, the colorful despot from Danville, Illinois. —Philip Gleason, M.A. '55 
THE REPRESENTATIVE REPUBLIC, Ferdinand A. Hermens, University of 
Notre  Dame  Press,  Notre  Dame,  Ind.  
578 pp.  $7.50.  
Professor  Hermens  writes  to  protest  

"against the fallacy that constitutional gov­ernment is necessarily weak and that it must be on the defensive in the struggle against subversion by either the extreme Right or the extreme Left," believing that democracy is able to "satisfy the average citizen, at-
Father Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., discusses cadet religious life with Chaplain (Captain) Van Dyke, 16th Battle Group, 16th Infantry, First "Big Red One" Division, on a recent visit to Fort Riley ROTO summer camp. 
tract doubters to its side, and isolate the 
hard core of its opponents to such an ex­
tent that they will be a nuisance rather than 
a* danger." 
The author, a Professor of Political 
Science at Notre Dame, devotes his first 
200 pages to the theory of representative 
government and surveys the more important 
classical and modem writers on political 
philosophy, constitutionalism, political par­
ties. Then, at greater length, he considers 
"constitutionalism in the concrete" — the 
workings of representative govenunent in 
Great Britain, France, Germany, Italy and 
the United States — and comments on the 
growing pains of democracy in the under­
developed countries. There is much discus­
sion of proportional representation as a 
factor in the fall of the French Fourth Re­
public and the German Weimar Republic; 
comparisons of presidential and cabinet 
government, of executives chosen by and 
responsible to a legislature and popularly 
elected presidents. 
In the New York Times, Columbia Pro­fessor Lindsay Rogers writes that Professor Hermens "has written ably and persuasively in support of his thesis. His principal audi­ence will doubtless be in academic quarters and among those whose business it is to comment on current political happenings, but he ought to interest a good many gen­eral readers as well. . . . Mr. Hermens has read widely, but his learning is not ob­trusive, and he relegates his "scholarly ap­paratus" to an appendix of sixty pages. 
SAINTS AND SNAPDRAGONS, Lucile Hasley, Sheed & Ward, New York. 214 pp. $3.00. 
Wife of Professor Louis Hasley of the Notre Dame English Department, Mrs. Hasley has won a large and enthusiastic public with her Reproachfully Yours and The Mouse Hunter. 
This is another collection of genre pieces, familiar essays on familiar subjects—treated in an unfamiliarly hilarious fashion. 
Msgr. John S. Kennedy v/rites: "Mrs. Hasley is sui generis. She is audacious and slangy, yet never excessive and never im­precise. She is unmistakably, unrecon­structibly, in fact, boastfully middle western, yet with a universal outlook and appeal. She is marvelously amusing, yet consistently thought-provoking. She has a distinctive speciality, the form of which she has been using for some time now, yet the content is always npw and refreshing. 

Chicago Golf Outing 
(Continued from page 12) There were prize tickets for every kind of sports enthusiast . . . season passes to the Chicago Cardinals . . . tickets for IBC Boxing Bouts, Chicago Black-hawks, Notre Dame, Chicago Bears and White Sox games. Or how about this? One prize consisting .of a year's supply of beer (52 cases) . . . won by RudyRog,'51! Twenty exquisite elec­tric clocks, snow tires, 100 gallons of gasoline, week-end suite at the Shera­ton Hotel of your choice, Mbonaster, 
In the recent brochure on Notre Dame's long-range program, donors of larger gifts were listed, among them some of our Notre Dame Clubs. 
Through the vagaries of our rec­ords over a 10-year period, the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles gift of $2,500 in 1948 was omitted. All of us here regret this deeply, because a $2,500 gift from a Local Alumni Club Is not an ordinary day in the life of a red-inked University, and the generosity of the City of the Angels was as appreciated as it was appropriate. So, late, but with com­pounded sincerity, a public Thank You, L. A. 

color telephone installed, genuine yard gas light, and many more of tlie same caliber — a feather in the cap of the Prize Committee which was headed by Austin McNichols, Jr., '49. 
All this, and three times the money­maker than any previous Chicago Club Golf Outing! Ask Club President Jack Morley how to do it. He'll tell you . . . "Pick a good, loyal, hard-working com­mittee, give the alumni a real fun time for their money, and you've got what it takes. The formula looks like this: Organization, enthusiasm, follow-up, follow-up, follow-up = $ucce$$. 
Chairman Joe Archibald didn't waste any time in organizing. No sooner had he said "yes" than a printed organiza­tion chart was in the mail to com­mittee members. It was a detailed out­line on who does what — and by when it has to be done. Bill Archibald, '47 headed Ticket Sales; John Lyons, '50, Games Committee; Phil Mc­Donald, '47, and Tom Hannon, '50, General Arrangements'; Ausde Mc­Nichols, '49, Prizes; Don Weber, '49, Publicity; Frank Mumane, 49, was Committee Secretary. Frank Kauf­mann, '49, Ken Schuster, '49, Bill Brown, '45, Bill Higgins, '49, Jack Dwyer, '49, Ken Enright, '48, and Tony Pasquesi, '55, pitched in to round out the committee. 
All-in-all, it. was one of the best-planned, best-organized, best-staged Notre Dame affairs: Hats off to Jack Morley, Joe Archibald, and their enure committee! Here's hoping for con­tinued success in Chicago Club activity. 


Engagements 
lliss Friedie Kopp and DENIS O. CAREY, '56. 

Marriages 
Miss Claire M. Troll and CHARLES E. JUDGE, 
• 27, Wyncotc, Pa., September ^.7. 
Miss Marianne Wack and jjH N E. DOR,\N, '51, South Bend, Ind., September 21. 
Miss Joan Kitts and GERARD J. FINNEY, '54, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., March 8. Miss Patricia Ann Branley and CHARLES L. O'NEILL, '57, Rochester, Minn., September Vx Miss Helen E..K'ellehcr and RICRiUtO T. PIE­
SER, '57, Tulelake, Calif., August 16. Miss Carole Georgena MacAlpin and GE0R<£ E J. GALLAS, '58, South Bend, Ind., Sept. 21. 

Deaths 
WALTER J. GEARIN, 'W, of Portland, Ore., retired farmer and realtor, died October 3. He was a' track star at Notre Dame and later coached at Columbia University, now the University of Port­land. Surviving are his widow, a son and daugh­ter, five grandchildren and a sister. 
ROBERT G. McGUIRE, '18, of Glenview, 111., died September 1 after 30 years in the Chicago w*hoIesa]e business. He was a . member of the Monogram Club. Survivors include his widow and two daughters. 
THOMAS R.-CONROY, '27, Greensburg, Pa., died September 10. He was an industrial relations manager for the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. Sur­viving are his widow, a son and three daughters. 
REV. JOHN J. LANE, C.S.C., '30, died Octo­ber 8 at Notre Dame. Assistant director of Holy Cross province development, he was formerly direc­tor of veterans affairs at Notre Dame, dean and president of King's College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa-, and vice-president of St. Edward's University, Austin, Ttx. 
LEO B. ENGLISH, '35, of Toledo, O., died September 9 of a ~ heart attack. His widow is among the survivors. 
JOHN A. PARCHEM, '44, died Oct. 5 in South Bend, Ind. He was employed by the Bendix Avia­tion Corp. as an engineer and was a former in­structor at the University. His widow and t^vo tiaughters survive. 

Sympathy 
WILLIAM E. O'REILLY, '29, and EUGENE J. O'REILLY, '35, on the death of their mother, October 9. 
GUS P. MO.MSEN, '49, on the death of his father, October 2. JOSEPH C. GREEN, '51, on the death of his mother, September 13. 


Six Alumni Appointed University Advisors 
Jerome J. Crowley, Jr., president of The O'Brien Corporadon, South Bend; Ind., has been named to the Uni­versity's Associate Board of Lay Trus­tees. . The 24-member board has the responsibility of holding, investing and administering Notre Dame's endow­ment funds. Crowley will continue to serve on the advisory coimcil of Notre Dame's College of Commerce from which he was graduated in 1931. 
Four Notre Dame alumni have ac­cepted appointments to the University's Advisory Council for Liberal and Fine Arts. They are: M. Joseph Foley, presi­dent of Powel River Company Ltd., Vancouver, British Columbia; Michael 
O. O'Neil, president. General Tire of Miami (Fla.), Inc.; T. Edward Carey, president of the Cleveland (Ohio) Japanning Co.; and W. R. Sidenfaden, president of Suburban Gas Service, Upland, Calif, 
Carlos Tavares, La JoUa, Calif., en­gineering executive and real estate operator, is a new member of the Uni­versity's Advisory Coimcil for Science and Engineering. He is a 1927 Notre Dame civil engineerings graduate. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 23 
'Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ALABAMA Idaho Falls—James M. Brady, '29, P.O. KANSAS 
S. Eugene Sullivan, '25, 1707 Wellington Rd., Birmingham, Ala. 
ARIZONA P/to«n«—John R. Dolan, '50, 3241 E. Mariposa, Phoenix, Ariz. Tucion—Elmer Besten, '27, Box 5714, Tucson, -Arizona. 
ARKANSAS Fort Smith — Burley Johnston, Jr., '40 Quality Flowers, 925 Garrison, F t Smith, Arkansas. Little Rock—James E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Crestwood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 

Central—Dr. John W. Frye, '43, 3895 E. Princeton .Ave., Fresno, Calif. Los Angeles—Bonley L. Brady, '49, 310 S. Tyler Ave., EI Monte, Calif. A'ortAern—Edward F. Mansfield, '34, 523 West Hillsdale, San Mateo, Calif. 
Orange County—Willard R. Vangen, '49, 11732 Blue Jay Lane, Garden Grove, Cal. San Diego—F. J. Davis, '48, 5246 Maple 
St., San Diego 5, Calif. 

COLORADO Denver—James P. Sheehan, '50, 1970 S. Stuart St, Denver, Colo. Southern Colorado—A. Jack Thomas, '49 3222 Rex St., Pueblo, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT Connecticut Valley—Louis A. Bergeron, '52 90 Sylvan -Ave., Meriden, Conn. Fairfield County—Robert K. Griffin, '45, 33 Edna Ave., Bridgeport, Conn. Naugatuck—William R. Dw>-er, '55, 152 Wall St., Waterbury, Conn. New Haven—Edward A. Byrne, '26, 818 Edgcwood Ave., New Haven, Conn. 
DELAWARE Charles A. Wolfe, Jr., 53 Ruby Drive, .\shboume Hills, Cla>*mont, Delaware. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA John A. McGrath, '48, 5301 Muncastpr Mill Rd., Rockville, Md. 
FLORIDA Centra/—Roy B. Laughlin, '48, 2626 Nor­folk Rd., Orlando, Fla. Fort Lauderdale — Fraink J. McDonough, '41, 2675 N.E. 25th St, Lighthouse Point, Pompano Beach, Fla. Greater Afiomi—Charles E. Maher, '35, 138 
N.E. 92nd St., Miami Shores, Fla. North Florida—Fred H. Baumer, '22, 4731 Blackburn Rd., Jacksonville, Fla. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa—^Roy J. Deeb, '48, Peninsular Bldg. Supply Co., 114 .13th St North, St Petersburg, Fla. 
GEORGIA Atlanta—Richard Donnelly, '54, 3522 Ham­lin Circle, Chamblee, Ga. 
IDAHO James J. Carberrj', '41, 8507 Vincent St, Boise, Idaho. 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
Box 581, Idaho Falls, Idaho. •• 
ILLINOIS 

Aurora—Owen Kane, '38, Kane Ford, 230 Galen Blvd., Aurora, 111. Central Illinois—Edward G. Coleman, '50, 2147 S. Walnut St, Springfield, 111. Chicago—John F. Moriey, '35, 10432 S. Hamilton, Chicago, 111. Deca/ur—Bernard A. Marty, '37, 1606 W. Forest, Decatur, 111. Eastern Illinois—Ernest F. Sedlmayr, '46, 611 Douglas Ave., Danville, 111. Fox Valley—George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Simunit St, Elgin, 111. Joliet—John Lux, Jr., '53, c/o Herald News, 78 Scott St, Joliet, 111. 
Kankakee Valley — Marvin O. Huot, '33, 964 S. Evergreen Ave., Kankakee, 111. Peorfa—William S. Clark, '47, 2819 W. 
Susan Curve, Peoria, 111. Rockford—Philip Carey, '40, c/o Ditto, Inc., 1014 Charles St., Rockford, III. Rock River Valley—John H. Cahill, '33, 1002 Galena Ave., Dixon, III. 
Southern Cook County—Angelo A. Ciam­brone, '57, 168 Hawthorne Lane, Chicago Heights, 111. 
INDIANA 

Calumet District — William J. O'Connor, '51, Galvin, Galvin and Leeney, 7th Floor Calumet Bldg., Hammond, Ind. Eastern Indiana—Edward Dixon, '48, 523 Johnson Bldg., Muncie, Ind. Elkhart—James Cavanagh, '20, 437 E. Beardsley; Elkhart, Ind. Evansville—Fred Theis, '36, 217 S.E. 8th St, Evansville, Ind. Fort Wayne—Robert J. Klingenberger, '51, 2634 Marcy Lane, F t Wayne, Ind. Indianapolis—^Leo A. Bamhorst, '49, 4141 Brown Rd., Indianapolis 18, Ind. Michigan City—^Louis E. Black, '49, 125 Orchard Dr., Michigan City, Ind. St. Joseph Valley-^John N. Cackley, '37, Foundation Office, Notre Dame, Ind. Terre Haute^Druie Cavender, '46, 22 W. College, Harrisburg, 111. Wabash Valley—James W. Glaser, '50, 139 
E. Oak St., West Lafayette, Ind. 
IOWA 

Burlington—^Dr. Donal C. Petersen, '42, 511 F & M Bank Bldg., Burlington, Iowa. Cedar Rapids—Steve Provost, '49, 623 27th 
St N.E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Des Moines—Robert M. Cannon, '47, 650 39th St, Des Moines 12, Iowa. Dubuque—^Rev. William Kunsch, '37, Loras College, Dubuque, Iowa. 
Sioux-Land—Robert A. Manning, '36 (vicc­pres.), 721 33rd St, Sioux City, Iowa. Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, 
E. Moline)—Roy A. Bush, '49, 313 E. Central Park, Davenport, Iowa. 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. 5aiina —Thomas Kennedy, '51, 1900 Geb­hart, Salina, Kansas. Wichita—Theodore P. Jochems, '40, 402 N. Roosevelt, Wichita 8, Kansas. KENTUCKY 
Leo J. Brown, Jr., '50, 3721 Willmar Ave., Louisville 5, Ky. 
LOUISIANA ^ri-Ia-Tej:—George J. Despot, '45, 517 Market, Shreveport, La. New Orleans—James E. Smith, '50, 512 Crystal, New Orleans 24, La. MAINE Raymond A. Geiger, '32, c/o Geiger Bros., Lewiston, Me. 
MARYLAND Baltimore—Francis Herb, '37, 16 Thomhill Rd., Lutherville, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS Boj<on—Richard P. Hyland, '50, 27 Mom­ingside Dr., Walpole, Mass. Pioneer Valley—^Arthur L. Demers, '35, 17 Gillette Ave., Springfield, Mass. 
MICHIGAN 

Battle Creek—Raymond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard Place, Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County—^Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St Joe, Niles, Mich. 
Blue Water District—William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. Dearborn—^John E. Courtney, '50, 200 John 
Daly Rd., Inkster, Mich. Detroit—Joseph H. Carey, '32, 19965 Briar­cliff, Detroit 21, Mich. Flint—James J. Sherry, Jr., '36, 10440 State Rd., Goodrich, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan— John D. Deeb, '51, Deeb, Dunn & Elfer­dink. Suite 600 Michigan Trust Bldg., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Hiawathaland—Robert F. Voelker, '39, Box 88, Stephenson, Mich. Iron Range—Eugene R. Zinn, 105 Brogan ' Bldg., Ironwood, Mich. /fleJbon—James F. Mortell, '49, 609 S. 
Higby, Jackson, Mich. Lansing—Clement E. McFarlane, '38, 1638 Wellington Rd., Lansing, Michigan. Kalamazoo — Robert Shields, '35, 1822 Grand Ave., Kalamazoo, Mich. Monroe—Charles J. Golden, '48, 35 E. Front St., Monroe, Mich. Muskegon—John D. Fitzpatricfc, '33, 1278 Palmer Blvd., Muskegon, Mich. Saginaw Valley—Vincent T. Boyle, '49, 1124 W. Main St., Midland, Mich. Top of Michigan—Edward L. Moloney, '17, 416 East State St, Cheboygan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 

Duluth-Superior—James P. Keough (treas­urer), 2705 East Fifth St, Duluth, Minn. 
Twin Cities—^James C. Rogers, '53, 1350  Delaware, St. PaiJ 7, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI 
William P. Condon, '39 (vice-pres.), 718 Washington, Greenville, Miss. 
MISSOURI 

•
 Kansas City—(Mo. and Kans.)—Edward 

F.
 Aylward, '48, 922 Walnut St., Kansas City 6, Mo. 



St. Louis—^Thomas J. McGuire, Jr., '49, 907 Coffey Dr., St. Louis 19, Mo. 

MONTANA Bernard Grainey, '43, 906 11th Avenue, ' Helena, Mont. 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs—^Herb Sampson '50, 541 South 69th St., Omaha, Neb. 

NEW JERSEY Centra/—Dan Grace, '51, 406 Accacia Rd., Scotch Plains, N. J. New Jersey—President John F. Kelly, '40 ' 70 Vrceland Ave., Nutley, N. J. South Jersey—Robert W. Nickol, '37, 424 Tavistock Blvd., Haddonfield, N. J. 
NEW MEXICO George A. Schreiber, '41, 903 Loma Linda, ' S.E., Albuquerque, N. M. 
NEW YORK Bu#<j/o—John A. LaVigne, '49, 111 HamU­ton Blvd., Kenmore 17, N. Y. Capital District—C. F. Regan, Jr., '27, 1592 New Scotland Rd., Box 158, Slinger-lands, N. Y. Central—J. Garvey Jones, '52, 14 Caton Drive, E. Syracuse, N. Y. Golden Circle — Russell J. Jandoli, '40 (vice-pres.), 13 Whittingham Terr., Mil-bum, N. J. Mid-Hudson Valley — Anthony J. Buono, '43, 120 Elm St., Saugerties, N. Y. Mohawk Valley—^Dr. Daniel C. Shaugfi­nessy, '30, 115 Green St, Herkimer, N. Y. New York City—Stephen Mulvey, '51, 68 Stebbins, Tuckahoe 7, N. Y. Northern—Joseph R. Brandy, '21, Box 267, Ogdensburg, N. Y. Rochester—]. Richard Klee, '47, 149 Var­ina Dr., Rochester 10, N. Y. Schenectady—Leon St. Pierre, '55, c/o G. E. Company, P. O. Box 1088, Schenectady, 
N. Y. Syracuse—Sec "Central New York" Southern Tier—Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 
Hamilton St., Painted Post, N. Y. Triple Cities—George J. Haines, '42, 126 Laurel Ave., Binghamton, N. Y. 
NORTH DAKOTA 

William Daner, '53, 1106 So. Highland Acres, Bismarck, North Dakota. 
OHIO 

Akron—Robert J. Kapish, .'52, 27 i Madi­son Ave., Akron, Ohio. 
Canton — James F. Weber, '57, Editorial Dept., Canton Repository, 500 Market Ave., South, Canton, Ohio. 
Cincinna/i—Stephen P. Heekin, '50, 9242 Sherry Lee, Cincinnati 30, Ohio. Cleveland—Ray T. MUler, Jr., '51, 1708 Union Commerce Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio. 
Grandview Ave., Columbus, Ohio. Dayton—Paul Lammers, '48, 852 Hodapp, Dayton, Ohio. Hamilton—Jerome A. Ryan, '41, 353 South "D" St., Hamilton, Ohio. Northwestern—William R. Shanahan, '50, 576 W. Grand Ave., Lima, Ohio. Ohio Valley—Robert Sincavich, '50, 2079 Louisa Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. 
Sandusky-—Alfred A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, 1101 W. Jefferson St., Sandusky, Ohio. Tiffin—^Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore 
St., Tiffin, Ohio. 
To/edo—Joseph R. HiUebrand, '43, Hille­brand Insurance Agency, Board of Trade Bldg!, Toledo 4, Ohio. 
Youngstown — R. Griff Allen, '44, 2230 Burma Drive, Youngstown, Oliio. OKLAHOMA 
Oklahoma City—Charles L. Monnot, Jr., '34, 1414 N.W. 37th, Oklahoma City, Okla. 
Tulsa—John H. Conway, '44, 2927 E. 26th Place, Tulsa, Okla. 
OREGON 
Charles Slatt, '33, 2835 N.E. 19th Ave., Portland 12, Oregon. 
PENNSYLVANIA Central Pennsylvania — William S. Clear, '30, 503 Coleridge Ave., Altoona, Pa. £ri«—John McCormick, Jr., '53, 910 Wash­ington Place, Erie, Pa. Harrisiurg—Donald R. Meek, '50, 1932 Carlisle Rd., Camp Hill, Pa. Lehigh Ka«ey—William F. Martin, '44, 2733 Washington St., Allentown, Pa. Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. Philadelphia—V/ait Grothaus, Jr., '50, 133 Barcladen Rd., Rosemont, Pa. Pittsburgh—Charles L. Christen, '52, 3716 Rebecca St., Pittsburgh 34, Pa. Scranton—^Thomas J. Harrington, '34, 105 Washington Rd., Scranton, Pa. Wilkes-Barre — Raymond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Williamsport-Yrzr'Jk B. Lundy, '56, 1305 Woodmont Ave., Williamsport, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS Paul Hoeffler, '25, 812 Industrial Trust Bldg., Providence 3, Rhode Island. 
SOUTH CAROLINA William J. Dunham, '53, 16 Tyler St., Greenville, S. C. 
SOUTH DAKOTA Black Hills — Bernard' Gira, '10, Custer, South Dakota. 
TENNESSEE Chattanooga—Thomas B. Owen, '35, 4004 Wiley Ave., Chattanooga, Tenn. Memphis — Raymond Moran, '54, 1886 Monticello Dr., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS Doi/oj—Lancaster Smith, '50, 8638 Win-gate Dr., Dallas, Texas. El Pojo—W. Gorman Brock, '49, 2319 Tre­mont St., El Paso, Texas. Houston—Leighton F. Young, '37, P.O. Box 2558, Houston, Texas. Columbus—Dr. J. Joseph Hughes, '31, 987 

2212 Harvard, Midland, Texas. Rio Grande Vo/Zey—Robert Aziz, '49, 1205 
W. Elizabeth, Brownsville, Texas. San Antonio—ioha M. O'Connell, '53, 146 
E. Agarita, San Antonio 12, Texas. 
UTAH 

Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Keams Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
VIRGINIA 

Charles A. LaFratta, '47, 2707 Lincoln, Richmond, Va. ^ Tidewater — Philip L. Russo, '49, 8107 V/edgewood Drive, Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON 

Spokane—^William L. Wolter, '35 (vice­pres.), 414 W. 29th Ave., Spokane, Wash. 
Western — Theodore P. Cummings, '44, Dore, Cummings & Dubuar, 905 Ameri­can Bldg., Seattle 4, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA 

Joseph M. Fallon, '50, 867 Vine St., St. Albans, W. Va. Central—^John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarksburg, W. Va. WISCONSIN 
Fox River Valley—Patrick F. Coughlin, '50, 110 S. Oneida St., Appleton, Wis. Green Bay—Joseph A. Neufeld, '44,'Box 17, Green Bay, Wis. LaCrosse—Joseph Becker, '50, 515 State Bank Bldg., LaCrosse, Wis. Merrill—Augustus H. Stange, 102 S. Pros­pect, Merrill, Wis. 
Milwaukee—Walter O. Schneider, 54, 2861 North 76th, Apt 4, Milwaukee 10, Wis. Northwest Wisconsin—C. T. Downs, '33, 
219/3 S. Barstow, Eau Qaire, Wis. South Central—Thomas W. Frost, '30, 115 Ely PI., Madison, Wis. Southeastern—Edwin E. Raymond, Jr., '49, 2820 21st St, Racine, Wis. 
HAWAn 

Walter Tagawa, '52, 3939 Monterey Place, Honolulu 16, T. H. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 

Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24 (key man), Moreau House, 28 Zin­dabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
Canada—Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. 
Chile—Rev. Francis A. Provenzano, C.S.C., '42, St. George's College, Aven. Pedro de Valdivia 1423, Santiago, Chile. 
Ecuador—John Moeller, '47, P.O. Box 213, Quito, Ecuador. 
Guam—Capt V. T. Blaz, Marine Barracks, Navy 926, c/o F.P.O., San Francisco, Cal. Manila—John F. Gotuaco, '24, 1316 Peim­
sylvania, Manila, Pliilippines. Mexico City — Telmo DeLandero, '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City. Panama—^William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 98, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone. Peru—Enrique LuUi, '45, Cuzco 440, Lima, 
Peru. Midland-Odessa — John L. Buckley, '38, Puerto Rico—^Vice-Pres.: Paul McManus, 
'34, B&M Products Co., Box 2695, San Juan, Puerto Rico. 

iSome—Secretary: Vincent G. McAloon, '34, c/o Notre Dame International School, Via Aurelia 700, Rome, Italy. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 25 




LUMl 

Akron 
CL.\RE.\CE WILLIAM MAY, •08. wc salute 

you on tills your Golden Anniversary as a Notre 
Dame /Vluinnus. TIiroiiRh this. Thr Notre Dame 
AlumniL*.. our public voice, each and every one of 
Its doff our hats and call out to you in a unison 
thai is loud and dear. . . '"Bless you Clarence May 

—with pood health and (ond memories through 
many, many anniversaries to come! 
On SepIemhiT 9ih, our annual Fresliman Nile 

Dinner. CLARENCE MW was officially honored 
by the .Akron Alumni, current students and new 
students with their Dads, and other quests. HUGH 
COLOPY. "33, and LEE HINDERSCHEID, '58 
were co-chairmen for the record turnout. More dc­
lailss of this in the next issue. 
Ambitious and aggressive plan.N arc under way 

at this writing for this year's Football Excursion 
to the campus. Four Greyhound Buses will Iiavc 
conveyed some 173 .Akron area fans to the October 
18th Duke gridiion battle. Club Prexy. BOB KA­

PISH, *52, has not yet conceded a complete sell­
out as this is written. 
Tiic .Akron Club officially and most warmly wel­comes the 1958 Grads to our local group. Our inquiries around brought out that GERRY MAU­RER accepted the six month Mililarv- Ser^'ice stint by leaving in August for Cai.ip Lee, Virginia. JOE KILLIAN, following a summer of work with a local construction firm, enters Nlureau Seminary' this Fall. LEE HINDERSCHEID and his bride, the former Ann Mulligan from Lyndrook. Long Island, have made .Akion their home with Lee ply­ing his talents at Firestone Tire & Rubber (and by the by, tliis maktrs thiee Hinderscheids at Firestone in Akron. . . Dad, ED.MUND A. '30 and brother, ROBERT E. '55). DICK and BOB FABBRO, graduating together this summer, are now settled. . ^ . Dick with his degree in .Aiclutecture joined Tuchuian & Canute, local .Architect firm. . . and Bob. a Civil' Engineer, is showing his Dad wlial he has learned, in the Arthur E. Fabbro Concrete Construction Company. TED LEY spent the sum­mer with The National Biscuit Company and will begin his six month Military- Service stint in Oclo­b.-r. STEVE D.ANNEMILLER and JIM ENGLE­H.ART were not reached at this writing. 
Before closing we wish (o extend a resounding Tliank You to BERNIE WITUCKI for his trek into our fair city last July to cover our Golf Outing. Bemie not only gave us the dope on Terry and the Pirates who plan to steal the gridiron laurels this season but with true Notre Dame humility and compassion he played a ver>' poor game of golf In order not to beat us too badly. . . With great re­straint and diplomacy he managed to stay just a few strokes ahead in his foursome—mucli to the cliagrin of BOP KAPISH, TOM SE.AM.AN (Can­ton alumnus) and yours truly. .All you could want in beer and sandwiclies were served the golf group foUowing the strain of play with a ci>oling swim or simply relaxing on the patio as t!ic anticlimax of a wonderful day. FR/VNK STEEL, '25, brought St. Vincent Coach NED ENDRESS—one of Akron's all time basketball greats. . . BOB FARNBAUGH, *56, with General Electric In Fort Wayne, came to town in time to join the party. . . HUGH COL­OP\', "33, arrived late for golf but we were happy he arrived in time to cat, drink and chat. BRUCE RAFF, *49, brought Pete D'.Anna (Pitt alumnus now convinced it's going to be tough). TED SCH.AETZLE, '49, was golf outing chairman. 
—GEORGE DEKANY, M9, Sec>-. 


Alabama 
Tlie University of Notre Dame Club of Alabann held its first meeting Friday. Aug. 8, in Birmlnj;­ham. Notre Dame men from five Alabama cities attended. 
S. EUGENE SULLIVAN, closs of '25. was elect­ed president. He is chief mining engineer for a Birmingham iron company. 
Named to serve with Sullivan were Atty. THOM­AS C. N.AJJAR, Jr.. vice-president, and EDWARD 
26 Notre Davie Alumnus, November, 1958 
^ t^ti 
J. D.AILEY, Jr., secretar>'-treasurer. Both arc of Birmingham. 
In other action, the club elected a slx-mcmbcr 
board of directors, which Includes Sullivan as 
chairman. Other directors arc WILLIAM E. LEON­
ARD, R.AY.MOND E. FAHERT\*, JOHN a\MP ­
BELL, PETER PAUL Sa\LISE and ROBERT J. 
FLYNN. .All aie of Birmingham except Leonard, 
who Is of Huntsvillc. 
Daile>- spearheaded the move to organize the 
.-Uabama Club. Najjar" authored the club's consti­
tution and by-laws which were adopted at the ini­
tial meeting. 
Officers and directors were elected by voice vote to serve durmg the organizational period. Election of permanent officers and directors will take place at a meeting on annual Notre Dame Communion Sunday, Dec. 7. 
—BOB FLYNN, Seo". 


Black Hills 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of the Black Hills held its annual picnic July 20 in thr' sylvan surround­ings of Pactola Dam. Weather wa? perfect for the family affair and the outing was enjoyed by young and old. 
Boston 
The Boston Club held its first aminal golf day at Furnace Brook Golf Club, Quincy, Massachu­setts on Friday, August 29. Many availed them­selves of the bar and grill facilities for lunch be­fore a 1:30 tec-ofT "and 19th hole activities. Prizes *verc awarded. 
Fifty-six boys from the Boston area cnteicd Notre Dame in September, and, as has been the custom in the past, the club sponsored its annual dinner fur the freshmen and their fathers on Wednesday evening. September 3, at the Fresh Pond Restaurant, Lido Banquet Room, in Cam­bridge. Guest speakers Included Rev. WILLIAM 

J. BESTON, C^.C , Master of Novices at the Holy Cross Novitiate in Bennington, Vt., and Rev. COR­?;ELIU S DONOVAN, '09, Club Chaplain. The color film on tlic University was shown. 
The Club has completed a new ahimnl directory, listing area alumni undei four classifications, al­phabetically, by class, town and occupation. JIM TANSEY, CUMMINGS GIARDINO and BILL BUTLER handled advertising under the dlrecllon of President DICK HYLAND. An are.i communi­cation plan has also been set up, dividing fifty-sonie communities among 17 area chairmen in contact with the officers. 

BufFalo 
T!ic Buffalo club opened the fall 1958 season with Father THOM^VS BRENNAN as honored guest for the September meeting. President JOHN A. L.A­VIGNE, '49, and his officers plus the September meeting fximmlttec aroused a spirited group to be­gin the big half of the 1958 season. 
The traditional chalitnan of the Notre Dame an­nual Communion Breakfast, for Notre Dame Men and their families, is the Vice-President of the Club, AN'THONY C. ROCCO. '49. 
Tills fall the Buffalo Club sponsored a flying trip lo the Notre Dame vs. Purdue fiKJtball game. Hon­ornrv Chairman JOHN A. LrVVIGNE appointed FRANK J. GAGLIONE, '39, and ANTHONY C. ROCCO, '49, as co-chainnen assisted by the fol-l.>uing Club stalwarts: JOHN F. ENDERS, JR., 
53; HENRY J. BALLING, JR., '52; PAUL D. BALLING, '53; JOSEPH L. WATSON, '42; DON­ALD G. JACOBI, '35; JOHN P. E.AGAN, '47; JOHN P. BOLxVND, '45; JOHN H. DOERR, 43; LOUIS Z. ALMASI, '48; JOHN M. CONSIDINE, '49; ROBERT M. CROWE, '52; RICHARD F. KLEE, '50; DONALD W. LOVE, '35; EUGENE 
A. MILLER, '43; JACK MULL.\NE, '54; JAMES 
W. MURRAY, '31; ROBERT J. NAGEL, '40; 
ALABAMA—Looking over a copy of the constitution of the newly organized University of Noire Dante Club of Alabama are S. Eugene Sullivan, '25, president; Edward J. Dailcy, Jr., *49, sicretarj-treasurer, and Thomas C. Najjar, Jr., '53, vice president. The club held its first meeting Aug. 8 in Birmingham. 
BUFFALO—Principals at the BuCfalo Club Summer Golf Party for 1958 included (left to right): Coach Bemie Crimmins of the N. D. football staff; Chairman William Pfeil pre­senting the Mary A. Quinn trophy to the 1958 Club Champion Dana G. Fitzpatrick, *52; John A. Lavignc, Buffalo Club President. 
CHARLES A. HANNA, '09; PAUL H. SE.\NL\N, 

'33, and .NLARTIN J. TRAVERS, '30. On Satur-Central New Jersey 
d:iy, Oct. 25, 1958. 104 Notre Dame men and their 

fI lends will have taken otT from Buffalo on a Super The Central New Jersey Alumni Club obscr\cd 
"G " Constellation, arriving in South Bend three Universal Notre Dame Night at the Molly Pitcher 
hiiurs before game time to enable all hands to rc-Hotel in Red Bank back on April 20. Club Presi­
acquaint themselves with the campus. All proceeds dent D/VN GR.-\CE, '51, acted as loasimastcr and 
will be used to augment the Chib Scholarship fund. introduced Fr. H.VYES, S.J.. who spoke on the 
The Terrace Room of the Hotel Statler-Hilton 

subject of the criteria used by the Legion of De­has been reserved for the club Christmas dance to 
cency- in judging literature. Fr. Hayes has been be held December 26, 1958. Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN 
working in this field in the Newark .-Xrchdiocesc. 

The Man of the Year .Award was presented to tlie holiday feature of the club's activities. 
P. BOLAND have accepted the Chairmanship for 

ANTHONY J. GIUFFRE, '32, of Perth .Vmboy. Selected to assist Mr. and Mrs. Boland for this 
Tlie regular meetings of April and June were de­season's holiday dance are Mr. and Mrs. THO^^•\S 
voted to talks on hospital insurance by the writer KELLY, in charge of tickets; .Mr. and Mrs. JOHN 
in .April and progress in academic affairs by three DOERR. in charge of reservations; Mr. and Mrs. 
student representatives in June. Henrv- Balling. Jr.. in charge of decoraiions; Mr. The annual Student Send-off was scheduled for 
and Mrs. John Fogarly, in charge of Publicity, and September 10 and will have taken place when this .Mr. and .Mrs. DONALD G. JACOBI in charge of reaches print. The usual successful social evening Music. The Notre Dame Campus Club of BtiiTalo was anticipated. 
will be in charge of the evening's program. —JACK DOYLE, '38, Scc>-. 
DANA FITZPATRICK, '52, was the winner of the Mar>- A. Quinn trophy at the Club golf tour­nament. Coach BERNIE CRLM.MINS helped make Central New York 
the award. The John F. Enders Trophy was award­ed at tlie October Club meeting. A large group attended ihe annual family picnic 
—DONALD G. JACOBI, Sco". 
of the Notre Dame .Mumni Club of Central New 
York (Syracuse), July 20, 1958. 
The annual family picnic is sponsored by the 
women's auxiliarv- and this year's event, with about 
100 in attendance, was chairmanned by Mrs. 

Calumet Region 

J. GARVEY JONES. This year's annual outing, August 28 at Lake 
The Central .New York Club (Syracuse) has been Hills Countr>- Club, St. John, Indiana, was a 
a little lax this year in sending in publicity re­parly — not only for golfers — but for all members 
leases, but we have had an excellent year otherwise. and guests, players and non-players alike. The day 
We are alieady planning next year's program, iududed golf, cards. Softball and plenty of relaxa­
which gives promise of carrying us even further tion, capped bv cocktails, a buffet dinner and prizes. 
aliead. CiJ-rliairmen were TIM KLEIN, DICK BENNE and There are many graduates moving into Syracuse JLM ETLING. and one of our jobs is to catch and interest these 
A special business meeting was held September 

new men in our activities. The first general meet­25 at PuntiUo's Lounge in East Chicago. The pur­
ing of the Fall featured the 1957 Football High­pose was to gel Notre Dame .-Mumni in the area 
lights and a report on the 1958 Council of Alumni acquainted with each other and active in the Club; 
Club Presidents. to give members the opportunity to express their 
—HOBY SHE.\N, *3I; PAUL HICKEY, '40 ideas on Club activities for the coming two years, to discuss the possibility of establishiug some type of scholarship fund, etc.; and to formulate a pro­Chicago gram (and c:>nunit:eeh to carry it oui) winch will best further the interest of the University in the The regularly scheduled luncheon meetings are being resumed in October at the Western Society 
of Engineers Club, 84 E. Randolph Street. These luncheons arc a wonderful opportunity for men of all classes to drop in or to plan a reunion of their own friend? from their particular graduating classes. Anyone who does not receive notices of these meetings should notify the Club offices at 38 
S. Dearborn, Andover 3-6063. 
JOE ARCHIBALD'S record breaking golf tour­nament is a matter of history now even though it's still enthusiastically talked about, but if the same spirit is carried over into the party for the benefit of the scholarship fund. Chairman DON HOCAN will net a tidy sum for the fund. 
As usual, the reception for incoming freshmen and their fathers proved to be one of the most worth­while of our annual activities and was very ably handled by JERRY FRAZEL, JR. 
The annual Scholarship Fund' Benefit Cocktail Dance Party was held Oct. 4 at the Casino Club. 
—KENNETH G. ENRIGHT, JR., '48, Secy. 
Cleveland 
Cleveland was well representcu at Our Lady of Fattma Retreat house at Notre Dame, Indiana, on August 1-3 when over 30 local couples made the Husband-and-Wife retreat. A good Job of or­ganizing was done by GEORGE KERVER and FRANK CULL. 
On August I5th, the students danced to the music of Johnny Singer at the Hotel Carter. Campus Club President GARY VONDR.\N reports that over 85 couples attended the dance. 
The annual family picnic at Gilmour .Academy this year broke all records for attendance as over 500 parents and children turned out. Compliments to the Chairwomen: Mrs. xVNX BRE.MER, Mrs. LAURA UPRICHARD, Mrs. ELL.\ GAUL, and Mrs. GEORGE HAMMER. The swimming and games were capably handled by Mr. and Mrs. RILEY MILLER. 

The new Student Stag Party at Rohr's Restaurant proved an interesting experiment this year. The an­nual Scholarship football raffle got off to an im­pressive start amidst the fine turnout of new stu­dents and their parents, as well as club members. JOHN FURLV and P.AT aVNNON expect this year's scliolarship rafllc to top all previous years. 
Once again the Stag Golf Party proved to be the top entertainment event of the year. Chairman JERRY .McGRrVTH's unfailing efforts were re­warded by a wonderful turnout for both the golfing and the evening social events. .MIKE L^XYDEN, President of the National Alumni Association, was guest speaker for the banquet. The officers and members extend their thanks to those members who were so gracious in providing the prizes for the participating golfers. 
Welcome back to the Club to GUS STEF.ANEK who just was transferred back to his hometown from Tarrytown, New York. 
-JOHN P. COYNE, Secy. 

Columbus 
On Friday, September 5, the Club held its an­nual Back to School Send-off parly for the Notre Dame Students at Faltcr's Pilty-Pat Farm. The students and their fathers were the guests of the Club for a delicious fish-fr\' with all the trimmings. DOC HENRY HUGHES headed the committee which was credited with another successful good time for all. Other members who helped with ar­rangemenu and food were: DOC TOM HUGHES, HARRY NESTER, AL FRERICKS and ART UL­RICH. 
In addition to the Committee for the Duke \'s. Notre Dame Trip, the following ones are prepar­ing the way for the Fall and Christmas season events: .A Square Dance for November; the .Annual Communion Day Breakfast, and the Christmas Dance. 
—JAMES W. PRICE, '56, Secy. 


Dallas 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas sponsored its traditional rally on the eve of the Southern Meth­odist game, with this year's affair held on Friday, Oct. 3, in the Grand Ballroom of the Statler-Hilton. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ November^ 1958 27 


Decatur 
CENTRAL NEW YORK—Shou-n with their -wives and some of their children at the Syracuse Club's annual family picnic are (back row, I. to r.) Paul Hickcy, '40, club treasurer; 
J. Gar\ey Jones, '52, dub president; William (Bill) Dwyer, ^46; (front row) Jack Vamcy, '53, and Al Hundshammer, '52. 
Tlie rally, which benefits the club's &cItoIarship Alumni Club of Dayton now has 109 members, in­fund, was a special event this year both because of cluding the following new members from the Class its many celebrities and because it marked the close of '58: DREW AMAN, MIKE CARR, TOM EI-of the N.D.-S.M.U. sciies for some years. SENHAUER, DICK FLAUTE and WALTER 
Preltminar>* plans included the appearances of 

SCHNEBLE. coaches TERRY BRENNAN and Bill Meek, ath-—^VALTER J. GEREND, '39, Secy. Ictic directors "MOOSE" KRAUSE and Matty Bell, and other notables from the world of sports. 
S.M.U. president WiIHs Tate and the official Notre Dame representatives are also scheduled. Dearborn 
Johnny Cola's orcliestra will play for the enter­The Dearborn Club held its annual summer tainment program and for dancing. 

dance August 2 at Sarb's, informal, featuring danc­Tickets, which included all set-ups and gra­
ing under the stars, buffet food and liquid re­tuities, \%'cre $4.50 per person in ad\'ance, and $5 freshment. Cliairwoman was Pal Courtney, aided at tlie door. Ad\'ancc tickets could be ordered by Pat Sarb and Roscmar>- Dolan. 

from the Notre Dame Club of Dallas, 6113 Lem­mon Ave. 
A general meeting was held August 22 at the home of GERRY GASS to line up football season Handling arrangements were JOE HAGGAR, obscr\-ances. Entertainment chairman LEON La-

rally diairman; JACK SCHROETER, VIC CLESI, ROCQUE scheduled a film, "Speed Week at Dav-JR.. and JACK EASTON, tickets; BILL CAREY tona," with commentary* by Dave Evans of Ford and women's auxiliary*, decorations; JAMES HOS­TY, ticket collection; JOHN .MORAN, publicity; 
TOM DORE was chairman of the annual golf HAL TEHAN, coaches and dignitaries; and TONY 
outing and dinner at the Dearborn Country Club ZOPPI, entertainment advisor. 
September 30. Golf and door prizes were awarded. 

President JACK COURTNEY was host for a —JOHN J. MORAN general meeting October 3, featuring football movies and a discussion of fund raising ideas. 
Dayton 
Our annual golf party and dinner were held at the Miami Valle>* Country Club on September II. TOM O'DONNELL, '55, ser\cd as cliairman. 
A very successful raffle was held under the en­terprising chairmanship of JOE DUES (and he really does!). The coveted prizes were four tickets to the Notre Dame-Army game on October 11 plus expciibe and entertainment money. 
The Women's Auxiliary- staged a Halloween Mas­querade Dance at The Willows on October 26. Tliere had been fantastic rumors, unconfirmed at press time, that ED STEINER would be disguised as Smokey Burgess, popular catcher of the Cincin­nati Rcdlegs. 
Another activity' being planned jointly by the Notre Dame Club and the Women's Auxiliary is a Christmas Dance at the Miami Valley Country Club on December 27. 
BILL HOVNE, '41, the cheerful mortidan and former llght-heav'>'weight boxing champion at Notre Dame in his young and larefrce days, was appointed to the Natural Resources Commission of the State of Ohio by Governor C. William O.'NcIll for a term expiring In January, I9G5. Bill, who Is doing an outstanding job in civic affairs, also served as Chairman of the 1958 Montgomery* County Polio Drive. Bill received a Badielor of Science degree from Notre Dame and a Master of Arts Notre Datnc's Alumni Club of Decatur, Illinois, 
gatliercd for a golf outing June 25, 1958. It was 
absented only by our honeymooning Secretary* 
MILTON J. BEAUDINE, '54, and a very few who 
found it was a *'bad time" to get away. 
Tlic locale v^'as tlie Country Club of Decatur hosted by BERNARD LIVERGOOD, *24. He ban­died a maze of details with the aplomb of Rocknc on the night before a game away. It included two four­somes who were joined at the nineteenth by the remainder of our valiant group. The dinner was auspicious in BERNARD MARTY's, '37, expression of gratefulness to Mr. Livcrgood who in response awarded the "World's Greatest Golfer" trophy to Mr. G. Harold Hubbard, father of GEORGE H. HUBBARD, '54. This group could easily produce the season's comedy-hit entitled "Needles and Tabs". fMrcady the fall dinner party has started to build up. 
L.3St June our first out-of-town guest scheduled his business to include our fourth Wednesday luncheon at Grcidcr's Mezzanine. It was AL PHA­NEUF, '34, from Springfield, Illinois. Who's next? 
—STEVE GRAUKER, »42. 


Denver 
The Denver Notre Dame Club was saddened at the departure of Its dear friend and Club Chaplain, FATHER JAMES McSHANE, S.J. This energetic Irishman, who has served as conscience and coun­selor to hundtctls of troubled Denvcritcs, left his adopted City for his new appointment as Hospital Chaplain in St. Louis, Missouri. He was honored by many individuals and Denver groups including those he organized to help the poor among whom he ^vorked. These included vocational scliools and players groups. Famous were his visits to the City Jail to help the unfortunate. Come back soon Father McShane! 
Future events planned include a joint business-social meeting to be attended by the wives of the Club members. This Ladies Night will start with dinner to be followed by a business meeting mostly devoted to reports on the many acttWtics connected with our scholarship program. Entertainment for all will then follow. The meeting is under the direction of ART GREGORY and a\R L EIBER­GER. 
Many Club members and other Dcnveriics plan­ned to ride the football special to the North Caro­lina game. As It has been for many years, the football trip was in the capable hands of JIM HANLON. JI.M COUGHLIN also has plans In the formative stage for the annual Christmas Dance which unites the Alumni and the students present­ly at Notre Dame. 
The Club President, JIM SHEEHAN, spent sev­eral days at Notre Dame for the Club President's 
degree from Harvard. BLACK HILLS—Here arc some early arrivals at the Black Hills Club's annual family A recent survey disclosed that the Notre Dame picnic July 20 at Pactola Dam, S. D. 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus^ November, 1958 
CHICAGO—^At the annual Testimonial Dinner for retiring officers and board members of the Chicago Club arc: (seated, L to r.) WilUain Hickey, Second Vice President George Menard, Jack Muldoon, First Vice President Phil Faccenda, William Ferstel, William Allen; (stand­ing, 1. to r.) William Kennedy, Dan Hardin, Bob Geiman, Jerry Frazel, Retiring President Frank Milligan, Jim Haggerty, President John Morley, Ed GausscHn, Bernard Gotta, Jim Conway, Jack Barry, Jim Ferstcl and Secretary Ken Enright. 
meeting. Club Sccrctar>' CARL EIBERGER, also visited the Campus several days on his recent honeymoon and both have reported to many the recent changes there. 
The Club's annual picnic was held in late 'sum­mer al a near-Denver Park. Many Xotre Damcrs took advantage of the day's outing planned by RAY RISTOW and DR. JAMES MON*AGH.\X. A day of fun, companionship, games and events for the whole family was enjoyed by all. 
—a\RL EIBERGER, *52, Sccj-. 
Detroit 
Tlic annual Notre Dame Golf Party was held on July 1st, and was a huge success because of the cfTorts of Chairman JOHN PANELLI and Co-Chairman TOM SHEEH/\N. John promoted 95 golfers and 125 for dinner and our suave Chairman John Panclli, provided a door prize for all non-golfers and a prize for all golfers. 
Low gross was won by RUSS BE:\UPRE, with a score of 75; the longest drive by BUD ZINK. 
The guest speakers were FATHER CAREY, TERRY BRENNAN, and JACK 2ILLY; also guests Were eight 1958 graduates. 
On July I9th, Tom Sheehan playing in the Birmingham Invitational Tournament, established a new amateur course record of 66 (like old wine, improves with age). Congratulations, Tom! 
The ne.\t event on the Summer schedule was the '"Summer Theatre Party" sponsored by The Christ Child Society and The Notre Dame Club of Detroit. Co-Chairmen were BILL ^VNHUT and Cathie Anhut. "Me and Juliet," a Rogers & Ham­merstein musical production, was scliedulcd and held at the Music Circle (on the grounds of Bots-ford Inn). 
The next event, on August 14th, was a **plcas­ant" trip through the Gocbel Brewing Company. Cold refreshments were on hand for all club members. PETE KERNAN was Chairman. 
The first Fall event was the "Sports Night" on September 8, at the Veterans Memorial Building. Tliis party was the biggest Fall event prior to the football season. Sports celebrities from all fields will attend. Ed Krause, Athletic Director, will be the Master of Ceremonies. Co-Chairmen GUS CI­FELLI, BOB CRONIN and LEON HART worked hard to make this party a huge success. MAL KNAU S was in charge of the prizes awarded on this evening. The winners of the R.C.A. color television and ten additional prizes will be an­nounced. 
JIM BYRNE was in cliargc of a mammoth ex­cursion to the Duke game October 18. 
—DON HERRON, Sec>-. 
Fort Lauderdale 
.Elected to associate membership in the Club at the June meeting were DR. JEROLD F. AHLFS 
and DR. JAMES C. WOULFE. President FRANK MCDONOUGH, HI, welcomed the .Votrc Dame students who attended: BRUCE a\.MPBELL, '61; BOB GORE, 111, '61, and TO.M WARRE.N", '60. These men enjoyed the meeting so much (even though it was mostly business) that they joined the Club as full-fledged members. Also present at the June meeting were FR.\NK .\lcGINN, '52; JOHN MCGINN, 'H; TO.M .MURR,\Y, '50; GEORGE GORE, '48; W!LL.\RD .MOSS (associ­ate member); R. H. GORE, JR., '31; J. P. HALEY, "27, and his guest, L. D. STuilh; ROBERT L. RIG­LEY, '30; TO.M WALKER, '42; VINCE O'NEILL, (A), JOHN P. HOEY. '49; AL THIBEDORE (A); TO.M NOL.\N, '44; BOB CO.\NESS, '31; CHAR­LEY BACHM.VN, '17; GEORGE ERNST, '29; JOHN a\LLAN, '21; TED GORE, '50; guest Charles Spence; BOB DICKEY (A); DR. HOW­ARD SERVICE (A); JOE BURKE (A); CHUCK Mo\LPINE, '50; BILL .Mc.\LPINE, '53; BILL .MAUS, '53; Px\T LYNCH, '53; BOB McDON-OUGH, '49; FR.VNK CAREY, '41, and J. J. KLEE, '18. 
The Independence Day Picnic and the Mai-Kai Polynesian Feast were so well attended that we didn't get the names ol all the fun-lovers. Let it suffice to say that both affairs were booming suc­cesses. 
The August meeting was the occasion for the taking of the First .Annual Club Photograph, which appears elsewhere in this bsue. Unfortunately, it is virtually impossible for every member to come to any one particular meeting; we are, however, happy that we had such a fine turn-out. See if you can pick out these people in the picture: MSGR. AL­LAIS (Chaplain); FR,\.\K .McDONOUGH, *41; FRrVNK .MCGINN, '52; JOHN McGI.VN, '5»; TOM .MURR,\Y, '50; BOB GORE, '31; BILL .McAL-PINE, '53; DICK WHEL,VN, '42; .M.VTT BUTTI (A); BILL CA.MPBELL (A); BRUCE aVMPBELL, '61; TO.M WARREN, '60; BOB CONNESS, '31; RrVY HUFF.M;\N (A); WALT CIUNE, '35; BRENDAN GALL.\GHER (A); JOE aVNOUSE, '32; .VNDY BRICHE, '52; JACK. HOEY, '49; CHUCK .Mc\LPINE, '30; PAT L\'NCH, '53; JIM NOLiVN (A); JOHN .McCOR.MACK, '52; NICK .MARGARITIS (A); JI.M WOULFE (A); GEORGE ER-N'ST, '29; BOB McDONOUGH, '48; TO.M BURKE, '39; W. R. BURKE (A); DICK BAKER, 
•53; WALT WOLFF, '33; EL.MER THIBEDORE, lA); ED .MURR.U', '43; WILL;\RD .MOSS (A); TOM WALKER, '42; HAL PETERS (A); GEORGE GORE, '48; JI.M HALEY, '27; JI.M HALEY, '39; JI.M KURTH, '57; GERRY FINNEY, 'M; J. J. KLEE, '18, and JACK LYONS (A). Guests pres­ent included Cdr. Albert E. Baker, W. F. Wolff, Bill Zrickc, and Fran Zcnt. 
Inasmuch as Palm Beach County does not yet have an Alumni Club, alumni from there were in­vited to join our Club. Answering the call were BILL MADDEN, '42, and JI.M DOWNEY, '43, both from West Palm Beach. 
The September meeting was the annual Football Excursion Raffle Party. Three hundred raffle tickets were sold at five dollars each. The grand prize was a package tour for two to the Notre-Dame - Na\*y • game in Baltimore. Included in the package were game tickets, first class plane tickets, hotel reservations for three nights, and a few hundred dollars tor spending money. The pro­cedure for this raffle is to pull each and every­one of the three hundred raffle tickets. In addi­tion to the grand prize, every 25th ticket pulled gets a prize for the donor if he is present at the party. As in the past, the raffle party was very-successful, netting approximately six hundred dol­lars, which was contributed' to the University. 

Plans fur the Fall include a radio party and a television party. The members gather at these parties to hear and view football games of their xMma Mater in the friendship of fellow alumni and invigorating beverages. They are really the next best thin;; to actually being present al the games. 
—TO.M .MURR.\Y, Secy. 
Fort Wayne 

Alumni, students, prospective students and par­ents were all invited to the annual Summer Stag of the Fort Wayne Club at Robison Park Pavilion on Septctabcr 11. Food, rcfTcshments and games were plentiful. The affair was very well attended, especially by undergraduates and new freshmen. 
-JOSEPH H. DANIEL, Secy. 
Houston 

REV. JOHN J. aWANAUGH, C5.C.,. Notre Dame Foundation Director and former University President, was guest speaker and THO^L\S A. STANDISH, *35, Houston civic leader, was named Notre Dame Man of the Year back on April 16 when the Notre Dame Club of Houston held its Universal Notre Dame Night banquet at the River Oaks Country Club in Houston. 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Houston held a Dinner Club meeting August 12, 1958," which was well at­tended. 
The annual family picnic was held at the Briar Club in Houston on September 8. The purpose of this picnic is to have a family gathering of tlie membership and for the new students enrolling in Notre Dame for the first time in September tto get acquainted with the boys from this area now attending school. 
\Yc made our train trip to the S.M.U. - Noire Dame game in Dallas on October 4. This was the third such trip. Profits realized from sponsoring this endeavor have been used to defray a four year scholarship offered by our Club.' 
—LEIGHTON F. YOUNG, Pres, 


Notre Dame Alumnus^ November^ 1938 
DETROIT—Observing Terry Brcnnan's golf grip at the Detroit Club golf party were (L to r.) Coach Jack Zilly, '47; John McHale, '43, vice president and general manager of the Detroit Tigers; Director of Scouts Katalinas, and Tiger Scout Marvin Owen. 
Indianapolis 

The big news in Indianapolis was the most suc­cessful foolball trip in our club's histor>'. BILL WELCH, '57, directed this year's excursion to the Duke game and ever>-onc had such a great time that Bill is practically sold out for next year. This trip furnished a large part of the funds for our scholarship fund. ED Mc^*A^L\RA, '43, of the famous McNiunara clan in Indianapolis, is having another great year at his Two Gait Farm with his racing trotters. His trotter. Sandalwood, won the Horseman Futurity at the Indiana State Fair which made the third year in a rov\' that Ed has won the e\'ent. Ed is also a real estate entrepreneur, having developed the lovely settlement of Mount Carmel just north of Indianapolis. FRANCIS QUINN, '42, just completed his own football team with the birth of his seventh son. He has a line of tlie seven boys and pretty backficid of four girls. JOE G.^BLER, '54, who originally came from West Virginia, has just joined the Indianapolis N. D. Club. Joe works at the Indiana Bell Telephone Company and is one of the two men in charge of converting the billing for long distance calls to a punched card procedure. The date of December 7th has been set for the club's annual Communion Breakfast. Since this is one of the club's main religious activities of the year club president LEO BARNHORST, *49, is hoping to make this year's breakfast the most successful in our club's history. 
—CHARLES E. STIMMING. '53, Secy. 

Kansas City 
Greetings from the Kansas City Club after mis­sing the last issue. Your reporter was at the time "committed" to Ft. Leonard Wood, Missouri, and unable to meet any otlier deadlines. The Club, however, has not been inactive as our news will tell. 
Although it is months gone by, the Kansas City Club's version of Universal Notre Dame Night, celebrated April 14th, was a success. A large turn­out was on hand to greet the executive vice-presi­dent of the University, FATHER EDMUND P. JOYCE. The dinner was held at the President Hotel. Preceding the dinner. Father Joyce ap­peared on KCMO-TV, in the slot titled "Four 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ November^ 1958, 
Star Personality," which wis complete with color TV. 
Skipping back into May, the Club held one of many stag nights. Approximately 100 alumni and their guests jammed the St. Peter's hall in Kansas City to sec the showing of the "Highlights of 57" and the moWe filmed on the campus, "Notre Dame." From all the reports it was a. gay night, as freedom reigned for all, and excellent movies made it an enjoyable evening. 
With the summer then at hand, the club set­tled down for a Httle less activity. The students, however, were hard at it, and on July 18th, at the Sherwood Country Club in subuiban Platte County, the>- held the First Annual Summer Dance. Close to 75 couples danced the night away, and from those that were there, *vc hope that the dance will continue from its successful beginning. 
On August 18th, the alumni held their annual summer picnic, complete with barbecue, soda pop, beer, and all the trimmings. A last minute switch in locations brought over 100 to the Ridgcview Country Club in southern Jackson County, MissourL The evening was ripe for a picnic, with the skies clear and the temperature in the low 70's. 
About the same time, the more serious of the alumni, and three distinguished Kansas City busi­nessmen met at the Kansas City Club for dinner. The purpose — the awarding of the 4th William Rockhill Nelson Scholarship. The three judges were: Mr. E. P.. Mitchell, a Lawyer; Mr. H. Gavin Leedy, President, Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City; and Dr. John H. Mayer, Jr., a leading Kansas City physician. Drawn from the 5 finalists that evening was a young Rockhuist High School graduate — Maurice O'SulHvan, who will use his scholarship to enter the College of Engineering thb FaU. 
Getting the freshman off on the right track has always been the attempt of the Kansas City Club, so on September Ilth, the annual Freshman Send­off Dinner was held. This year's dinner was un­der the general chairmanship of Mr. BERNARD "BUNKY" CONNOR, '54, who directed the pro­gram and arranged for all the freshmen and their fathers to attend. The dinner was held at Wolfer-man's Restaurant on the Country Club Plaza in Kansas City. After a filling me^, the 150 gath­ered saw the movie "Notre Dame" and heard words of wisdom from Alumni Club president, ED AYLWARD,' '48, and other dignitaries gathered. 

The new Notre Dame Men seemed to appreciate 
the chance to learn first hand, before-hand, what 
was in store. 
An honored visitor to the Kansas City area, and 

the Alumni Club, was FATHER JOHN CAVAN­
AUGH, head of the Notre Dame Foundation, who 
was in Kansas City on the 13th of October to help 
promote the Great Books Program of the Catholic 
Community Library. A luncheon was held in his 
honor for alumni, friends, and others by the Kan­
sas City alumni. Approximately 100 enjoyed Fr. 
Cavanaugh's words, and hope that he will return 
soon to our fair city. 
As other clubs who tried found out, no Army 

tickets being able to reach our. doorstep, the 
club took 200 highly delighted fans to the Notre 
Dame-Duke game on October I8th. A special train 
left Kansas City on Thursday, October 16th, bound 
for C'icago. After two fun-loving nights in the 
Windy City, special buses advanced the group to 
the Notre Dame Stadium, where they were en­
tertained by a well-played ball game. After the 
game, they left South Bend, returning to Chicago, 
where they held their third night of romping. The 
return to Kansas City was made on Sunday after­
noon. 
That about does it for now. By the time the 

next issue is hot off the presses, we hope to have 
a lot more *'action" to report from the Heart of 
America. 
—JOHN T. MASSMAN. *56, Secy. 

Kentucky 
The Notre Dame Club of Kentucky held its an­nual Family Communion Breakfast on September 7th, .at St. Mary Magdalene Church. Students were invited to attend the affair prior to returning to the University for the Fall semester. The fine turnout of the men and their wives was most grati­fying, and to JOE BOWLING, '52, our Spiritual Committee Chairman, go our thanks for his efforts which helped to make it such a success. 
Plans were laid at the August 28th meeting in traditional "kick-ofT* style for our annually spon­sored football trip to South Bend. Program Chair­man BOB WILLENBRINK, '49, is to be con­gratulated on his job of staging this meeting so as to set the tempo for another successful trip. Co-chairmen DICK WILLENBRINK, '50, and JACK KINNEY, '45, presented their plans for the trip to the Duke game on October I8th. Students and prospective students and their dads were in­vited to the meeting, at which our guest speaker was one of the most successful high school football coaches in Kentucky, John Meihaus of St. Xavier High School in Louisville. 
Members of the Club were shocked to learn ol JAMES E. MCCARTHY'S untimely death. An ex­pression of sympathy was sent to his family and FATHER GRAY, '49, was requested to offer sev­eral Masses for the repose of his soul. 
—JAMES C. KREBS, '56, Secy. 

La Crosse 
The annual autumn La Crosse Club steak fry was held at PETE RAU's cottage in Kummel Cou­lee on September 6, 1958. Thirty alumni and their wives enjoyed a fine evening. JOE BECKER, STEVE PAVELA and JIM KRONER did a fine job. GILES HACKNER again mixed the cocktails three for one (the wrong way) and the steaks were ddicious. 
The Holy Hour inaugurated a year ago at the Dominican Monastery was resumed in October. FATHER TOM NINNEMAN conducts the Holy Hour. 
THE JERRY HEBERLEINS were presented with a fine boy on August 21. DAVE MURPHY and Angela Fazio (St. Mary's) of Chicago, were mar­ried in August and now reside here in La Crosse. 
-JERRY HEBERLEIN, 50, Secy. 

Lansing 
New officers of the Notre Dame Club of Lansing are CLEMENT McFARLANE, President; EDWARD LYONS, Vice-President; WILLUM KANE, Secre­tary, and JAMES BARRY, Treasurer. The club planned to sponsor a trip to one of the football games on campus. 
1^^! ^^, ^feft k ' 

FORT LAUDERDALE—^A plurality of I^uderdale Club members gather for the annual official club picture. 
Lehigh Valley 
The following is the activity report of the Notre 
Dame Club of the Lehigh Valley since the last 

ALUMNUS issue. 
Twenty club members, including club chaplain REV. HUGH F. McMULLAN, of St. Catherine of Siena parish in Allcnlown, Pa., attended the banquet of the Eastern Pennsylvania Scholastic Coaches Clinic in Slroudsburg in May. Featured banquet speakers were JIM CROWLEY of Four Horsemen fame and Head Coach TERRY BREN­NAN. A reception was held after the banquet for Brennan and Crowley which turned out as a highly enjo>*able evening. 
July saw the Lehigh Valley Club conduct its first annual Golf Tournament at the Blue Ridge Coun­try Club in Palmcrton under the chairmanship of BOB NANOVIC. DAVE NOLAN copped prizes in both medal play and as the blind bogey winner. A bufTct supper at the Club followed the golf match. 
BERT DADAY, DAVE NOLAN, and president BILL MARTIN, planned and conducted the highly successful Third Annual Family Picnic on August 
23.
 Over 70 club members, families and guests turned out for what proved to be the most enjoy­able picnic yet conducted by the club. Again this year, the "young" men emerged as victors over the "old folks" in the annual softball game. There was some question concerning officiating by LOU U'YNNE during the game, but this has been for­gotten. 

A surprise visitor came to Allentown on August 


24.
 JACK ROCKNE, son of the Notre Dame im­mortal, visited the area for a special dedication and was entertained by former club president, DR. LOUIS T. GABRIEL and several club members. 


Initial plans for Fall activities included a club-sponsored train trip to the Na^-y game in Baltimore. Plans for the day were handled by MAURIE OLSON. 
—TOM MAGILL, Secy. 

Los Angeles 
BOB LONERGAN, '43, is Chairman for the Los Angeles Notre Dame Club's "Adopt a Pop Day." The project involves liaving one or two underprivi­leged boys adopt an alumnus as their Pop for an afternoon of fun and good baseball at the Los An­geles Coliseum when the Dodgers meet the San Francisco Giants. The boys arc selected on the basi^ of need without regard to race, color or creed. 
Fund to enable worthy boys from the area to at­tend the University; and while we arc not sure what results we will have, it is our intention to ask local citizens to contribute small amounts to make this possible. An additional meeting was held September 6 to count money and check re­sults to date. 
It is quite possible that we will have the Glee Club with us in Maine next April and we arc working closely with the Glee Club to effect this. 
Attending the July meeting were the following: JESS F. DeLOIS, JOHN D. BRODERICK, LEO 
J. CORMIER, J. LEONARD TOBIN, DAVID R. CORMIER, MICHAEL A. MASSELLI, JOHN B. BELIVEAU, DANA C. DEVOE, DR. JAMES H. JOHNSON, JR., NORMAN C. TRE.MBLEY, JOHN U. RILEY, RAY A. GEIGER, ROBERT 

•••••••(••••••••••«iiiii)MiitttiiiMiiiiMiiiitiiii)tii»Miiitiiiitiii)niiiitiaitiii 
A. FRATES, JOHN L. RIDGE, JR., and RICH­ARD G. BILODEAU. 
It is interesting to note that JESS DeLOIS drove 360 miles from Caribou to attend the meeting, and DR. JOHNSON came from Milo, a distance of 193 miles, and brought with him DANA DEVOE from Orono. We feel this is a good sign of de­votion to the University and hope it will mean continuing interest in the Notre Dame Club of Maine. 
—J. LEONARD TOBIN, Secy. 

Miami 
The June meeting was held In the exclusive 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiMiiitiiinniiiniiM)MiMitMititiia:iitiiiiiii 

Maine KANSAS CITY—Among luminaries at the K.C. Oub U.N.D. Night Dinner were Qnb President Ed Aylward; Joe Stewart, Alumiii Association director; Mis. Tom Reardon, presi­
The Notre Dame Alumni of Afaine met in July at the residence of JOHN U. RILEV in Frccport. 
dent of the Notre Dame Auxiliary in Kansas City, and Rev. Edmund Joyce, Preliminarily we decided to set up a Scholarship executive vice preadent of the University. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nonember, 1958 31 
MIAMI—More All-Florida Catholic Awards were made by the Miami Club at a K. of C. dinner in West Palni Beach. Left to right are Jack Houghteling, Club selection committee chairman; Dick Lepeska^ all-state tackle; Jack DeMarco, all-state fullbcck, and Charics E. Mahcr, president of the N. D. Club of Greater Miami, who made the presentation. The players represented St- Ann's of West Palm Beach. 
U.MVERSm* CLUB room at the Urmey Hotel. dad; J. MICHAEL KELLEY with his dad; JOHN Special arrangfiiicnts were made for the use of MURR/\Y, '58 Grad. TOM MARIANI, DON these sumptuous facilities {private bar. TV, game MURRAY and DICK GORMAN. tables, dining area, etc.) through the help of 
Other new faces included MIKE ZELLER, '39; MIKE O'NEILL, BILL HUNTLEV and AL QUIK­BILL STREETER. '54; ANDY POWERS, '28; TON' — and to these wc are grateful. 

JIM McSHxVNE, JR., '48; BILL .McSHANE, '51; 

Among the more tlian fifyt who were on hand, DALE RENAULT, JR., '55; JOE O'.MARAH, '30; ncu- faces included those of MAURICE C. XACK-JIM ARMBRUSTER, '40; BILL HUNTLEY, JR., LEY, JR. {neu- Pres. Fla. Club-on-Campus) with his '48; BERNARD FEENEY, '39; HERE NADEAU, dad; JOSEPH KRUPP with his dad; J. .MICHAEL '35; A. E. DUFFEY: ED BURESS: WILLIAM KELLY with his dad; JOSEPH KRUPP with his WELER, '48; ED STAPLES, '02; JOHN A. SHAY; S. D. WEISSBUCH . . . AND . . . there were many of the old regulars on hand. Tlie High­lights of the meeting were those on the '57 High­lights film shown to the satisfaction of all, especially the "dethroning" of Oklahoma, the re­sumption of the Army scries and other inter­esting football froiH all ten of the '57 season X.D. games. 
Also at the meeting was shown the color movie on Notre Dame, and for those of you who might know of a Club or group interested in seeing this interesting film—please contact one of the Club officers for arrangements. 

The Club Board of Directors met this past month and selected ED KELLY as Chairman. Dis­cussed were items of scholarship finance and se­lection of new associate members RIC.\RDO M.AD­DEN and JACK LEWIS. 
.•\t this time we wish to present an "orchid" to Major Appliances' May Malone who does such a great job in getting out the multigraphed "EYES".—^Thanks a million! 
The July meeting was held in the University Club at the Urmey Hotel and after the steak dinner and a short business meeting, the .Alumni and guests shifted to the game tables and bar sec­tion where the beer for the evening was "on the Club." Wc understand that BILL STREETER was giving lessons on "five card bridge" — MIKE ZOROVICH now knows that you can't win with a pair of sLxcs unless they have pearl handles on them — especially when up against the likes of RAY Mc^VDAMS, ART BERGEN, DAN ROW­LANDS and JIM WILSON, '56 — wc arc happy to welcome Jim to our group. 
PARIS COWART had as his guests BILL Mc-CABE and CHARLIE GUNCHES. Paris was asked to comment on the Foundation, and CH.\RLI£ MAHER read excerpts from a letter from II PROBST, City Chairman, pointing out that our percentage of participation thus far this year in the Miami area was below par and it was hoped that progress would be made along these lines prior to our fall drive. It was further pointed out that many Alumni will recall that before the Foundation was in force, it cost .Alumni members $5.00 a year to be active and to receive ALU.M­NUS and other publications—today many receive these publications and yet do not contribute at all. 
EL PASO—^Around Alumni President Mike Layden and his wife Mary Ellen, guests of honor at the El Paso, Texas, Club's Notre Dame Night celebration, >\-ith their wives and guests, are Club President Gorman Brock, Gus Momsen, Jr., Jim Ryan, Jim Carrideo, Ed Jennings, Richard Smith, Juan Navar, John Slavick, Paul Rcnstrom, George Sunkel, Paul Sikora, Edward Ettl, Hugh O'Donnell, Gus 
Momsen, Sr., and Reuben Afomsen. 

32 Notre Dame Alumnus^ November, 1958 
But what is even more important—the percentage of participation is far short of the minimum of 75% which the University needs, and it is this percentage which does so much to influence out­side sources^ of revenue. It is a matter of record that a high percentage of participation among Ahimni will directly affect the participation of outside sources. Any check no matter how small, will be welcome and appreciated by the Foundation. 
Among those on hand at the meeting were ALEX REYNOLDS, JACK SHAY, RIC,\RDO MADDEN, ED and BERNIE LYONS, ED H/\NLEY, BARING FARMER, MIKE ZELLER, BOB REILLY, FRED JONES, GEORGE KENNARD, BILL WELCH, JIM SMITH and JOHN THORNTON. 
It is with deep sympathy that we mark the passing of our beloved Director GORGE A. BROU­TIGAM, '29, whose sudden death was a great shock to all of us. George was, since its incep­tion, one of the most loyal supporters of the Miami Club. Truly a real Notre Dame Man. Please remember him in your prayers. The Brau­tigam family has our heartfelt sympathy. 
The annual picnic at Grandon Park was a huge success, with over 150 being served the Bar-B-Q ribs ct al at the Crandon Park Cabanas the eve­ning of August 23, after a terrific Softball battle belivcen the Foundation Fusilecrs and the "AII-Timc Oldtimers," and the fact that Cowart comman­deered twelve of the biggest, toughest hombrcs available before the All Stars could choose "what's left" had nothing to do with the fact that the "F-F's" won 7 to 6, nor was it because FRED PIOW.'VTY pitched one inning of Cuban avocadoes, or that "honest" DICK HOURIHAN umpired the piiche.i, or that JERRY HOLLAND kept the scores — it's juit that after three innings the "F-F's" finally got ahead and declared the game over and done with. However, just to keep the relationship solid, the Foundation allowed the All Stars an e.\tra half inning (1st half of the 4th) in which Fireball Fans ^'pitched" to anybody on the opposition who cared to bat — those included the CHUCK O'CONNOR, BOB HALPIN, and "CAPT. KENNARD" kidss — none of whose scores were counted, unfortunately — or fortunately — all on how you look at it. We might point out that some of the younger clement like CHUCK NACKLY, Pres. of N. D. Club of Florida on Campus, and guest "ringer" DICK ADAM each burned out after one inning of pitching — even "KILLER" KELLY showed old age was cutting his homers down to infield dribbles. Little Leagu­ers like SCOT SMITH and "C. J." .MAHER were doing better than their Dads. We were glad to have on hand CAPT. HALPIN and the seven others of his family from Homestead .\.F.B. Did you know that the HENRY KEELS were billeted in a motel on Crandon Just so they could be early for the picnic? The Dr. .\LFS family of Ft. Lau­derdale were also on hand. 
Needless to say the thing we ran out of first at the picnic was the ^tillers Champagne "suds". That and the varied activities whetted the appe­tites to where Smith, ^(aher and Welch had to bolster the catering "ser\-ice" — and those of you who got too much or too little can in the cal­loused hands of these galley gastronomic gormand­izers lay the blame. Our thanks to MIKE ZORO­VICH and Co-Pilot KELLY for "trucking" in the bottle goods. 
GEORGE COURY, '28, was given coverage in the ALUMNUS and local papers on his gift of $100,000 to establish a new student loan fund at the University. Congratulations, George! 
The September meeting %vas held in the Univer­sity Club at the Urmey, and President CHARLIE MAHER opened with a minute of silent prayer for our late departed member GEORGE BRAUTIGAM. 
Among the 28 in attendance were DON JAR­RETT, BOB HALPIN, HUGH McMANIGAL, DON MURRAY, JIM WILSON, JACKSON H. HOOPER, DICK GORMAN, student AR.MAND ZILIOLI and many of the old regulars. 
—CHAS. MAHER, Pres. 

Milwaukee 
Another year got off to a fine start with a suc­cessful Golf Outing. BOB ROLFS was chairman of the ex'cnt, and the new golf champion is BILL SCHALLER, who shot a fine 72. 
The annual family picnic was held Sunday, August 31, in Greenfield Park. Provided for a slight fee were beverages, watermelon, charcoal, games and prizes. 
HOUSTON—Principals in the annual Notre Dame Night banquet of the Houston Club in­cluded (1. to r.) Club President Leighton F. Young, Guest Speaker Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and Thomas A. Standish, recipient of the Hotiston Man-of-the-Year award. 
Plans are also in progress for a general meeting November 11 at the Schlitz Brown Bottle, a Notre Dame Communion Breakfast December 7 at St. Charles Boys Home and a Holiday Dance Januar>' 3. 
New York 
Alumni danced to the music of "Bugs" Wallher at the Larchmont Shore Club on Long Island Sound Saturday, September 13. The informal dance was held for a contemplated .Mumni Scholarship Fund with income to go toward scholarship as­sistance for the sons of alumni. FRED G-\RIDEO was dance chairman. Graduates of the Class of 1958 were special guests. 
Glee Club veteran BILL CULLE.\, '49, is at­tempting to form a glee club among New York Club members. 
The annual Kick Off Meeting was held Thurs­day, October 2, in the Tap Room at Ruppert's Brewery, with 1958 grads particularly invited. Be­sides music, popcorn and beer the meeting featured the appearance of Giant Scout JACK L^WELLE, '28, as master of ceremonies and National Alumni Secretary JI.M AR.MSTRONG, '25, as ofljcial rep­resentative of the University. The Army gome was previewed by the appearance of Col. Francis Rob­erts, U.S.A., Graduate Manager of .Athletics, and Rev. Robert McCormick, Catholic Chaplain at West Point. 
Club members attended a reception and dinner in honor of the departure of Holy Cross Mission­aries for their assignments abroad on Wednesday, October 15, in the Century Room of the Hotel Commodore. Columnist Bob Considtne was mas­ter of ceremonies. 
The New York Club sponsored an air trip to the .Army game October 11 and a railroad exodus to Baltimore for Nav>- \'s. Notre Dame November 1. 
The Ladies Auxiliary* Bridge and Fashion Show-will take place Saturday, November 15, at 12 noon at the Biltmore Hotel. 
Northwestern Ohio 
Effective October 1 the new President of the Notre Dame Club of Northwestern Ohio is Mr. WILLIAM J. OTTE, '35, 401 West Park Street. 
• Coldwalcr, Ohio. The Secrelar>*-Treasurer is Mr. ^VALTER R. BERNARD, '30, 430 Johnson Avenue, Cclina, Ohio. 
The Club hopes that in the forthcoming it will be able to participate in the Alumni Fund. 
—W. R. SHANAH^VN, Secy. 

Orange County (LOS ANGELES) 
A picnic of any kind can usually be called a howling success, especially if there are kids in­volved, and in this case the 65 ecstatically happy and boisterous youngsters were the offspring of members of the N. D. Club of Orange County-. Before consuming barrels of soft drinks and gobs of ice cream used to wash down dozens of hot dogs, the future Notre Damers were pleading for another picnic "in about two days." 
Pre-xy BILL V/\NGEN, '49, and his mop up de­tail of JACK MAHON, JR., '42, and JOHN GLfVAB, '47, probably had other thoughts ua the subject. But it was the kids day to howl and that the>- did. Their dads were content with much free flowing Miller's High Life and meeting old and new friends from school. 
On the beautiful and spacious grounds of the Brothers of St. Patrick Novitiate in Westminster the kids really had a field day under the guidance of DICK COURY, '51, head coach at Mater Dei High School. Dick had a little help too from the good Brothers who are also teachers at Mater Dei. Could this be termed proselyting early in Hfe? Pic­nic Chairman DICK MURPHY, '53, is to be con­gratulated on the fine way he handled the r.utinir and also for making DICK O'NEIL, '43, BOB COOK, '54, and WALLY ANDREWS, '40, his capable cooks and bottle washers. 
A ver>- special and unique highlight of the day was the announcement by Club Chaplain FATHER ROBERT ROSS that while he missed our first UND Night dinner because of a trip to Europe he was happy to present, to all members of the Club and their families, the heartening news that His Holi­ness Pius XII had graciously bestowed upcn us his Apostolic Blessing. And this for perhaps tlie new* est club in the United Stales. Can any other club brag as much as wc do? 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 33 
BOB KIERNAX, '39, had his eight good reasons for being a successful insurance man on hand and will be given a special prize next year for having the most children present. DAVE WALKER, '53, soon to leave his post as Assistant D.A. for private practice was glad-handing old and new friends. Irene (Mrs. BOB MADDOX, '42) proved that her husband isn't the only athlete in the family by winning the title "Best Woman Golfer." We all wish Bob great success this year in his Canadian Pro Football coacliing job. JACK MAHON's daughter Jo .^nn danced away u-jth the Hula Hoop contest, a fad that's spreading across the nation. Young JcfT Vangcn showed his spsccd and agility in getting away from his dad, Bill, by be­ing the fastest 4-year-old on the field-A scatback of the future! The Club is grateful to BART Mc-HUGH, '28, and his Laguna Beach Toy Shop for donating all the to>-s given as prizes. 
ARTHUR D. RHODES, whose delayed W.WM obituar>' was printed in the last Issue, u-as the kind of a guy our Club would have been very proud to call one of our own. 
Special committees have been set up to contact cver>* member of the Club to receive their donation for the N. D. Foundation. Wc hope to be the first Club in the nation to be represented 100%, and • wc expect that by the time of our next meeting on Nov. 22 when we'll have a stag meeting at Father Ross' Parbh Hall to uatch the N. D. — Iowa game on TV. 
We're all going to the SC game in Los Angeles the following week. See you there? 
-BADEN POWELL, '32, Scc>-. 

Oregon 
On August 21st the Notre Dame Club of Oregon held a luncheon in the Multnomah Hotel, Portland, honoring JOE KUHARICH, Coach of the Wash­ington Redskins, and these former Notre Dame plavers now with the Redskins: RALPH GUGLIEL­.MI, DICK L^-NCH, JIM SCHRADER, RAY LEMEK, .MENIL MAVRAIDES, CHET OSTROW­SKI, FRANK KUCPTFA, and PAUL DJUBASEK. 
The Redskins were in town for their pre-scason game with the San Francisco 49'ers Saturday night, August 23rd. 
A good turn out of approximately 60 attended the luncheon. Vcr>- good local newspaper sport coverage was given the event. 
Peoria 
The Xotrc Dame Club of Peoria held their an­nual picnic on August 10 at the summer.home of RICHARD WALSH, '48, (the retiring president) at Shore Acres Country- Club, Chillicothe, Illinois. The meeting was attended by 45 members. 
The meeting was highlighted by election of offi­cers for the coming year: WILLIAM D. CLARK, '47. President; THOMAS V. C^SSIDY, '55, Vice-President; JOHN R. POWERS, JR., '53, Secretary, and DAVID J. AMBERG. '50, Treasurer. 
BERNARD J. GHIGLIERI, Chairman of the Trophy Committee, announced the awarding oC the Ennio Arboit Memorial Trophy to the 1957 Peoria Area Football Champion, Peoria Woodruff High School. 
Plans were made to hold a meeting on August 27 at the "33" Room of the Pabsi Bre^ving Com­pany. Many other events are sclieduled, including a steak fry, bam dance. Communion breakfast, and Christmas dance. 
—JOHN R. PO\VERS, JR., '53, Secy. 

Philadelphia 
Our "Back to Campus" meeting was a great success this year due to the efforts of George. Schu-artz, who u-as Chairman of the c\'ent. The meeting was preceded with a dinner at the Vesper Club for the recent graduates, who were the guests ' of the Club. The meeting itself had some' fine speakers on the program. Among them were Mr. JOSEPH A. DONAGHUE, Executive Vice-President of the Philadelphia Eagles; Mr. AMBR03E F. DUDLEY, JR., President of Stadium Enterprises, Inc., and .Mr. JOHN T. FACENDA, WCAU-TV 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiti«iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii)aiiiii)*iii 
SALINA—^''A small check from a small Club" might be the caption for tlus picture except that the check is miniature in dimensions only. Bob McAuIiffe, *36 (left), retiring president of the Salina, Kansas, Club, presents a $1,000 check for the Notre Dame Foundation to Jim Armstrong *25, assistant director of the Foundation and secretary <^ the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
34. Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
News Commentator. £vcr>-onc present had a fine time, and we feel sure that the students from Phila­delphia had a good send-off. We all wish them success in their coming school year at Notre Dame. 
TY DEMPSEY and MR. JACK HENRY made all the arrangements for the Club's trip to Balti­more on Nov. 1st to watch the "Irish" whip Naxy. 
Other plans for the coming months include — The annual Communion Breakfast on Dec. 7th, and our second annual' Scholarship Fund Benefit, which vrill be a Cocktail Party at the Merion Tribute House on Dec. 28th. JACK DEMPSEY will be the Chairman. 
—JIM LEYDON, '49, Secy-

Pittsburgh 
On August II, 1958, the Club had a Father and Son Baseball Night. Under the very capable chair­manship of JOHN A. VUONO, Esquire, the Club procured a block of tickets for the Pittsburgh-Mil­waukee game %%hich played to a sell-out crowd. Prior to the game wc had a very fine meal ar­ranged by GEORGE BROWN, who is now in the sales department of Webster Hall Hotel. About 60 alumni, students, fathers and sons were in attend­ance for this affair. We plan to make this an annual outing and include prospective students in our ranks. 
On September 3, 1958, the Annual Golf Outing was held at Butler Country Club under the chair­manship of "SMOKY" COIN. This alwa>-s is a big affair for the Pittsburgh Club. 
Prior to the Pitt-Notrc Dame game the Club has rented a large room in the AVcbster Hall Hotel for a Friday evening, November 7, get together. This will be open to Notre Dame people and their friends as well as the public 
—DONALD W. BEBENEK, '52, Secy. 

Rochester 
The Rochester Club opened the summer season iviih a very damp July 4th picnic. However, in spite of rain all day long, 67 alumni, wives, and children attended. BOB SKIPWORTH was chair­man of a highly successful outing. 
The annual golf outing on July 22 found "honest" JACK NYE DUFFEY with high score. The outing *vas held at Brook-Lea Country Club. FRITZ BUR­GER held low gross and ARNIE MORRISON low net. 
Congratulations to BILL REEVES who was mar­ried August 9. Our sincere sympathy to Bill, how­ever, for the tragedy of his mother's death on the day of the wedding. 
The auxiliary- held a luncheon and fashion show Saturday, September 6 and this dale was topped off by our summer dance at Brook-Lea with ED DEMPSEY chairman of a gala affair. 
President DICK KLEE and Chairman BILL DEMPSEY kicked off our raffle of two ND-Army game tickets and a week end in South Bend at a general meeting Monday, August 25. The proceeds from the raffle tvill go into our scholarship fund. 
—PHIL A. FINNEGAN, '51, Secy. 

Rockford 
The name of Notre Dame was much in evi­dence over the summer months in the Rockford area due to the activities of the Rockford Club and her Alumni members. 
Tlie Club held its annual Golf Stag on July 17 in spite of the dark clouds that hung above. The rain didn't seem to bother the game of RON EL­LIS as he walked off with the honors for having the longest drive of the day. I forgot to ask him his score, but maybe its better that I didn't. 
With the help of Warren Spahn and the Rock­ford Club, the Braves scored a victory over Pitts­burgh July 24 at Milwaukee County Stadium. An air-conditioned bus provided the transportation to "Brave's Land" where lunch was ser\'ed at the Miller Inn. Ever>-one had a right to feel safe that day as Chief of PoHcc Boustead and Fire Chief Swanson ventured along to keep an eye out for "highvvaymcn" and fire vandals. 
This year's Rockford Club Scholarship Award was presented at graduation to Richard Ziebol of Aquin High school in Freport. 
PEOPLE 
Anyone interested in Canadian fishing might ask the authority on the subject, JIM DUNN, who took the trek to Canada last June on hts \*acation. Those of us who have a CBS imprint on our eye­balls from watching television so faithfully were rewarded the night TOM KEEGAN appeared in a debate on a National issue. 
That about wraps it up for now.. See you next issue with more news about the Club and her members. 
—GEORGE E. 0*LEARY, JR.. Secy. 
Rome 
Our first words in this issue are ones of grati­tude to the ALUMNUS for the magi^ificeni two-page spread in the Aug.-Sept. issue on the "works and pomps" of the Rome Club. Copies were presented both to Our Holy Father and to Cardinal Agagianian. 
To JERRY ASHLEY, '33, our Rome prex>- (now back in Detroit drumming up our interests], goes the major credits for the unique accomplishments reported in that issue: Yours truly is club treasurer but Jerry has been the "treasury" and so our gratitude de luxe to him. 
Papal Blessings have been flown out of Rome by the Club to the following ND Alumni who, a& reported in Time, have distinguished themselves: Ver>- Rev. FATHER BRIAN EGAN, O.S.B., Presi­dent, and FATHER MALACHY SHANAGHAN, O.S.B., of St. Bernard College, St. Bernard, Ala­bama. Likewise to National Commander JOHN S. GLEASON of the American Legion. The same in­tended for Governor MICHAEL STEPOVICH of Alaska only to learn that one has just been sent to him at other hands: To him from us will go a certificate of distinguished membership in the Rome club. 
A Mass in St. Peter's was arranged and attended by club members for the late Fred Allen, radio-TV entertainer, on the occasion of a visit here of his widow, a convert, Portland Hoffa. TTie Mass was offered at the Altar of the Pieta of Michelangelo by Father Thomas De Pace of Albany, brother of BROTHER PHILIP DE PACE, C.S.C., a dub member. 
By an alert from our unique "lady" member, MOTHER M. ALOYSI, SJf.D., (with a supply of degrees from N.D.), MOTHER M. VERA, SJS.D., Mother General of the Sistcn of Notre Dame, has been welcomed into the club; Mother Vera also studied at N. D. Returning to the fold after a stretch in the U.S. is JOHN KRUEGER, '49, who is again on the staff of the Rome Daily Ameiican. 
Other new arrivals: Brothers ROBERT BERGEN and PETER SWORDS, CS-C, who will be on the staff of N. D. International School. A loss: JOE DEVINE, '55 (Grad School), who has been trans­ferred to Turkey. But Joe's "Topolino" (mouse model) Fiat car became the property of the Rome club, which puts us on wheels and rides for N. D. pilgrims as the result. 
The N.D. Pilgrim Guest Roster: Welcomed and regaled These Holy Cross Fathers — FATHERS MENDEZ, MEULLER, HARRINGTON, JOHN and CORNELIUS HOEYBOER. and FATHER BERNARD, who reported on his N.D. alumni brothers, (Bill '35, Walter '36, Ed '37 of Spring­field, 111.). Sorry that we did not catch up with FATHERS NORTON and HARRIS, CS.C. 
Other Alumni visitors: MSGR. RAYMOND J. O'FLAHERTY of Santa Monica, Cal., N. D. Prep School '18-'20 and N.D.U. '24, reports that his parish school coach is our GEORGE MELINKO­VICH, '34. JOE BYRNE, Trustee, '15, brought a large N. J. pilgrimage and was accompanied by BOB SMITH, '26; in town at the same time. 
The Notre Dame Club of the Eternal City wishes to express a special sense of loss* at the passing of our beloved Honorary Mem­ber and Man of the Year, His 
Holiness  Pope  Pius  XII,  May  
God  admit  him  to  the  most  
exalted  of  Memberships.  

WALTER O'KEEFE of radio-TV fame, '21. THE O'SHAUGHNESSYS: John J. Jr., his wife (daugh­ter of I. A. O'Shaughncssy, N.D. benefactor), their sons Mike, an NJ). Frosh and Tim, '65! (following by days came 1. A. himself and Mrs. O'Shaughnes­sy); Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS L. PLOUFF, '22; 
A. R. CARMODY '15; BILL STOCKMAN, M9, of Detroit Club; LOUIS VITALE, '50; N. D. Students BOB DINI, VIC McCREA, JR., WYMAN SPANO, all '60, and TOM LEE, '59. Back home here MICKY P.WIA, '60, grad of N.D.I., Rome; DAVE SCHEELE, '55; JOHN DESSAUER, 57; BROTHER FIDELIS, CS.C , St. Ed's, Cleveland. 
Special item: Accompanying FATHER BOB LOCHNER, CS.C , were Mrs. Otile Rex and daughter Tanya; Mrs. Rex is a convert widow of the South Bend photographer who took the famous picture of Pius XII, as Cardinal Pacelli, kneeling xn the sanctuary at Notre Dame in 1936. Here in Rome, at a packed public papal audience in St. Peter's, Mrs. Rex managed to hand a color copy of the picture to His Holiness who on seeing the picture uttered "Notre Dame" (this a week follow­ing his "initiation" into the Rome X. D. Club). 
N. D, "family members" on our guest list: . Mr. and Mrs. John Miskel, parents of John Jr., '55, a. brother-in-law of Rome's BROTHER HUGH HA­GERTY, CS. C Betty Nash and Marie Gould: 
•Betty's father, Dick is '23; Mrs. Gould's husband, Ed is '23 and their son Harold, '50. Miss Jeanne Davis: Her father Bill '27, brother Bill '57, mother St. Mary's '28, aunt. Sister August Stella, CS.C. Barbara Varga of South Bend, sister of Jim, '40. 
Notre Dame Roman Fish Pond: You must sec it to believe it. In our club rendezvous (the Scoglio De Frisio Restaurant, Augusto Rossi, Proprietor, "subway alumnus") the band regularly sounds off with the N,D. Victor,* March, and with a purpose: to raise any N. D. people who may be present un­known to us. Here arc the literal results since last ALUMNUS issue. These people reacted vigorously and were duly interx'iewed by your secretary at their table: 
Bishop Hubert M. Newell of Cheyenne, Wyo., spoke up as knowing these N. D. men: TOM KAS­SIS (of Seven ^^ulcs), Cheyenne; ED OWENS, JERRY GROOM. AL O'.MEARA, JR.; BART O'­HARA, and BOB DICK, all of Denver. Mrs. A. J. Ullrich, mother of Charles '41 and Bob, ex N. D. of Indianapolis; Helen Ullrich, aunt of WILFRED ULLRICH, '29 and great aunt of JAMES ROCKNE ULLRICH, now at N.D.; Mrs. Marie Ferris for her brother LOUIS THOMPSON, ex '22; Mrs. Agnes Peelle-Connor for her sons Nick *36 and Larry *49; Mrs. C Fitzgibbons for her Uncle Dave "of Log Cabin days" at N. D.; Mrs. Marie Dahlen for her son Bob *55, Engr. All these women were on an Indianapolis pilgrimage. Mrs. Barbara Dailcy 

MILWAUKEE—Past Presidents Bill Doucette and Mark Pfaller demonstrate that they're "still at bat" for Notre Dame at the Milwaukee Club's annual family picnic on the Labor Day week end. 
of Denver for her grandson BOB DAILEY, man­ager of La Fortune Student Center on campus. And from one tour group out of Chicago, reports on RAY TRIZNA, '48, by his brother Joe; BOB REAL, '48, by his mother; MAURICE WHITE, '50, by his mother, JINf HARRINGTON, '59, by a "friend," Miss Sandy Kowalski; BILL JOYCE, '62, by Anne Crowther- Father J. J. Kilcoyne, brother-in-law of ART WOOD, '50; DR. HARTMAN, now of Villanuove U., and PAUL CLARKSON, now at N. D., by the Dalys. TOM LEE, '59, by brother Jack; PASQUALE DI PASQUALE by brother Father Pasquale, O.F.M.; FATHER WHIP­PLE C3.a , by his sister; Dr. PAUL "BUCKV* O'CONNOR and son, now at N. D., by Father James Stone of Newark, N. Y.; JOHN CURRAN. '50, by his brother; AL FRICKS, *34, by Ed Perens, Phoenix; Father J. J. CAWGILL, S.J., by brother Father F. CawgiU. 
—VINCE McALOON, '34, Secy. 
Saginaw Valley 
VINCE BOYLE reported he had a very interest­ing and enjoyable time at the Alumni Club presi­dents* meeting on the campus this summer. Of particular interest was the discussion sessions with other clubs of 100 or less members. Vince was quite impressed with the way the Texas clubs run their football excursions. 
We had thirty-two members and wives in at­tendance at our annual summer picnic BILL and ROG HENDRICK were hosts for the event and their brother LARRY HENDRICK did a terrific jab roasting the com. Larry looks forward to re­turning to the campus this fall. TOM and JOHN CARROLL prepared the tenderloin steak sand­wiches and Patty Meagher supervised from a ham­mock! 
Plans are under *vay for our golf tournament October 4 at While Birch golf course in Bay City. Following the tournament, will be a smoker for the SMU game. CARL DOOZAN is defending his title won last year. An engraved trophy goes to the winner. 
Looks like the big exodus of Saginaw Valley Club members to the Notre Dame campus will have been for the Army game, since our old nemesis Michigan State is not on the schedule tliis year. 
—CHUCK LENZ, Secy. 
St. Joseph Valley 
On Wednesday, the 13th of August, we held our first annual family picnic at Potawatomi Park at 

Notre Dame Alumnus^ November, 1958 35 
4:00 o'cclock. There were approximately 175 mem­bers and their families present. We participated in volleyball, horseshoes and swimming contests. The club furnished soft drinks and dessert. .MI nirnibers brought their own dinners which they cooked out over the barbecue ovens. This activity was accepted with great cnihusixsm, and cvcr>'onc vowed to co-operate to make it an even bigger success next year. Responsible for this activity was BURNIE BAUER, chairman, along with his com­mittee of JOE HANXAX, JAKE JANOWSKI and President JOHN C^CKLEY, who had to be ab­sent because of his father's fatal illness. Our deep­est sympathy to John on his loss. 
The annual Quarterback Luncheons will be held 

for the Fall season on the following dates: Sep­
tember 29lh. October 13th, October 27th, Novem­
ber lOth and November 24lh. Tliesc are all Monday 
dates, and will start at 12:00 noon at the Oliver 
Hotel. DICK CLE.\RY is chairman of these events 
alone with his committee of BILL E.-\RLEY, DON 
FISHER, JOHN POWERS, BOB HOLMES, ED 
MEEHAN, JR., and JOHN CACKLEY. Everyone 
knows how enjoyable these meetings of local and 
national sporting interests have been in the past, 
with, naturally, the emphasis on Notre Dame foot­
ball, and we expect a large turnout again this sea­
son. 
—JOSEPH E. HICKEY, Secy. 

St. Louis 
Our annual summer golf tournament was held on Tuesdax-. Julv 29, at Norwood Hills Country Club. GEORGE DESLOGE, '47, and WARD DRISCOLL. '49, handled the details as c»-chair­men of the affair. 
Wc had about thirty pros, semi-pros and duffers turn oiil for a trip around the course. A number of other less athletic club members arrived in time to have a go at the 19th hole and the dinner that followed the afternoon tournament. Coach HENRY STRAM vva.*. our guest for the evening. 
Trophies were presented several club members for their outstandinc accomplishments on the course. Low gross honors went lo one of the new Fall se­mester freshmen. VINCE FEHLIG, JR., '62, whose father. VINCE, SR., '34. made quite a reputation as a golfer during his years as a student at the University. MAURICE CARROLL, '19, won the blind bogey, and BILL EGGERS, '50, toot home the high gross trophy. 
We had our annual scnd-ofT for new freshmen and the present Notr-c Dame students from the St. Louis area on September 8. Fathers of the new students were also our guests at the affair, a stag smoker. -JIM PHEL.AN, *56. was chairman of the program and received assistance from JOHN BOYCE, '59. president of the St. Louis Campus Club. The Fall enrollment of St. Louis area stu­-^ents this year was 29. This brings to 94 the to­tal St. Louis enrollment. 
Football week ends should be hea\y with St- Louis actii'ity this season. The Club has season tickets to all home games for the Irish. Special arrange­ments were made with the Wabash Railroad for tours to the .Army and Duke games. The .Army game was a DeLuxe, alt Pullman trip which left St. Louis Friday evening and returned Sunday afternoon. We'll have a Saturday night stopover in Chicago. The Duke trjp vvas a coach lour leaving St. Louis Saturday morning and returning imme­diatclv after the game. DON DOHENY, '4G; JACK GRIFFIN, '39; GEORGE CONVEY, '43; JOHN HIGGINS, MS, and TOM McGUIRE, '49, are in charge of the football trip arrangements. 
—DON R.\TCHFORD, 50, Sec>-Treas. 

Salina 
At a July meeting the Salina Club voted to present a check for SI.000.00 lo the Notre Dame Foundation. Retiring President BOB ^^C/\ULIFFE presented the check to JIM ARMSTRONG while he was on campus for the Club Presidents' Council. 
.An election was held at the same time. New officers elected for the Salina Notre Dame Club are: TOM KENNEDY, '51. President; TOM FOOTE, '53. Vice-President, and JOHN E. CAR­LIN, JR., '58. Secretar\'-Treasurer. 
Tom Kennedy took office .August I. One of his first acts was to appoint Bob McAuliffc the chair­man of the summer party, traditionally held for members and wives, in August at the Brookvillc hotel. 
—ALBERT J. SCHWARTZ, Secy. 


36 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
San Antonio 
Tlic San Antonio Club sponsored a trip to Dallas for the Noire Damc-Southcm Methodist game, October 3, under the direction of BILL FIXCK and MARK WATSON, JR. 
Syracuse 
(Sec CENTRAL NEW YORK) 

Tucson 
.At a July meeting the Tucson Club elected the following officers: ELMER BESTEN, President; RICHARD TRAN"?, Vice-President, and ROBERT 0'C/\LLf\GH.AN, Secretary-Treasurer. 
Tulsa 
On July 28 the Notre Dame Club of Tulsa held its annual JOE MORAN family picnic at the Tulsa Country Club. Over fifty club members and their familits were in attendance. 
Tlic wives and the cliildren enjoyed swimming and sun bathing around the pool during the after­noon while the men were out playing 18 holes of golf with a great deal of emphasis and delav on the I9th hole. 
"SPIKE" SULLIV.\N, "ED" LEROUX and "DxWE" THOIOrrON shared scoring honors on the golf course in the afternoon play but Joe Moran (the Joe Moran without hair) had to blast them out of the Club House in order lo start ser\-ing the scrumptious fried chicken. 
Joe Moran, as always, was picnic chairman and each year Joe has a better picnic. We added eight new members to our roster from last year's graduation class. 
DONALD HxVNISH {'58) showed up at the pic­nic with a charming girl friend but left early to show her the lights of Tulsa from the top of Reser­voir Hill. 
No picnic pictures were taken, for Oklahoma, as you know, is a dry- (?) state. —JACK .MOH.ATT, Sccj-. 
Washington, D. C. 
On Monday, July 21, the Washington Club held 

its annual golf party at Kenwood Country* Club. An 
afternoon of golf was followed by dinner and the 
awarding of prizes. BOB SCHELLENBERG was 
in charge of the event. 
Close on the heels of the golf party came the Notre Dame 'Club summer week end of festivities, the Summer Dance and Family .Picnic. On Friday night, August 8, there was a dance party in the air conditioned Crystal Room of St. Bernard's Parish in Rivcrdalc, Mar>-land. The next day 'the members got together at Bowling's Farm near Ol­ney, Maryland, for the annual family picnic, with plenty of refreshments, games and the opportunity for a dip in a spring-fed pond. 
-At a general meeting on September 19 there was a discussion of plans for the big Nax'y* Rally on October 31. Large club delegations were assured for both Armv and Navv games. 
FATHER RICHARD MURPHY, Director of Ad­missions at the University, was in town on October 27 to establish an alumni inter\-iewing committee for applicants to the University. 
West Virginia 
The Notre Dame Club of Charleston, West Vir­ginia, obser^'ed Universal Notre Dame Night on April 22, 1958, with a dinner at Winn's Restaurant. President George Thompson serv'ed as loastmastcr for the affair. 
Elections were held and the following were elected to office for 1958: JOSEPH .NL FALLON ('50), President; ROLAND F. HART ('53), Vice-Presi­dent; and ILOUIS R. TABIT ('54), Secretary-Treasurer. 
BIRTHS—.Ann Eileen Desmond, born January 25, 1953. Parent—CORNELIUS T. DES.MOND, Class of '51. Terence Patrick Hart, born Julv 6, 1958. Parent—ROBERT HART, Class of '33. 
The .Annual Picnic was held .-\ugust 27 at Tim­bcrland Park. A Football-TV Smoker was another recent activity. —LOUIS R. TABIT, Secj-. 
ROME — Yankees abroad enjoy the fanicd hospitality of the Notre Dame Club of the Eternal City in the fabled Scoglio Di Frisio. Top: At party for visiting footballers Dan Shannon and Joe Heap were (1. to r.) Joe Pietrosante, Heap, Father Peter Shannon, Father Murphy, O. Cami.; Jerry Ashley, Dan Shannon and Club Secretary Vincc Mc/Moon. Below: 
N. D.-St. Mary's "Junior Year Abroad" group included (1. to r.) Vince, Bill Eckl, Jim Sheehan, Connie Belle Baird, Jon DcWitt; Fathers Bonavcnturc Xfoggia and Timothy Fitzgerald, C.P.; Father Joseph Burgdorf, S.P.M.; Ellen Ann Conaghan, Tom Brennan and Martha Jean Abell. Not shown: Mary Agnes Shriner. 
Sympathy 

FRANK T. DANNEMILLER, '06, on the death of his wile. 
EL.MER, '25 and FIUNCIS LAYDEN, '36, on the death of their mother, June 29. 
1L¥] CUsSES 
Engagements 

.Miss Corinnc L. Abbazia and GERi\RD J. HEK­KER, '48. .Miss Alice J. Garncau antj CHARLES E. DOO­LEV, JR., '32. Miss Tatiaia A. MasIcnikofT and LT. (j.g.) MAT­THEW A. .MALISON, 'M. Miss Doris Amortcgui and EUGENE W. LES­MEZ, '33. Miss Katlilccn Vogcl and DONALD M. LYNCH, '55. Miss Mar>- Margaret Drocgc and ENS. DONALD L. HANEY, '37. .Miss Patricia Moran and THOMAS H. RILEY, '37 .Miss Mari- E. Flynn and 1st LT. EUGENE J. LOVELESS, '57. Miss .Mary J. Bcngcrt and ENS. WILLLVM J. &\RRY, JR., '58. .Miss Linda Bcrgin and 2nd LT. JOHN H. LLOYD, III, '38. 
Marriages 

Miss Maureen L. Buckley and GER,\LD A. O'­REILLY, '47, Sharon, Connecticut, June 28. 
Miss Doris E. Noetzel and ZYGMON'T P. CZA­ROBSKI, '48, Aurora, Illinois, August 30. 
Miss Dorothy A. Quinn and ROBERT .M. CON­NELLY, '49, Carmcl by the Sea, Cal., June 7. 
Miss Anna .Marie Munoz and DANIEL J. NOR­ANDER, JR., '30, Detroit, Mich., July 3. 
Miss Mary Agnes Cumniings and JOHN E. ARM­STRONG, '52, South Bend, Ind., September 20. 
Miss Christine N. .Miller and BE.NEDICT L. SUPLICK, '33, Philadelphia, Pa., June 21. 
Miss Patricia A. Morrissey and JA.MES F. Cr\­HILL, JR., '5t, Jackson Heights, N.Y., August 9. 
.Misi Anne DePascalc and WILLIA.M A. .MEYER, 34, Meadville, Pa., July 26. 
Miss Geraldinc A. Goepfrich and .MILLARD T. BATTLES, JR., '55, Notre Dame, Ind., June 28. Miss Joan Knussman and DENNIS E. L.\UGH­LIN, '55, Notre Dame, -Ind., August 30. .Miss .Marcia D. Wieelock and JOHN E. McCUL-LOUGH, '55, .Notre Dame, Ind., October 4. 
.Miss Jane A. Gcmbcr and PAUL A. .MARZ, '33, South Bend, Ind., September 1. 
.Miss Carolyn J. Rotli and 2nd LT. JOHN P. .MADIGAN, JR., '36, Rockvillc Centre, L. I., N.Y., August 30. 
.Miss .Mary L. Myers and FRANCIS J. MOLSON, '56, Notre Dame, Ind., August 23. .Miss Ann B. .Matthews and LT. (j. g.) FELIX R. PARK, JR., "36, Notre Dame, Ind., June 28. 
Miss Jacquclyn M. Steinhofer and FRED L. ARCH,V.MBE,\ULT, '57, South Bend, Ind., August 30. 
.Miss Bcrnadetle .M. Tracy and GERALD F. CROWE, '57, Seymour, Illinois, September 20. Miss Joann E. DeSinione and CHARLES L. CUSUMANO, JR., '57, Brooklyn, N.Y., .\ugust 16. 
.Miss Theresc A. Bourke and FRANCIS K. REIL­LY, '57, Chicago, Illinois, August 2. 
•Miss Janice Trocndle and JA.MES GAULRAPP, '58, Lansing, Iowa, August 30. .Miss Theresa Mueller and L,\URENCE E. HOW­ARD, '58, South Bend, Ind., August 23. .Miss Gertrude E. GrifTm and FRANCIS X. KEN­NY, '58, Notre Dame, Indiana, xVugust 30. Miss Christine R. .Mishler and RAY.MOND A. .MILLER, JR., '58, South Bend. Ind., August 23. 
Miss Lcona M. Kowalski and JAMES J. STACK, '38, South Bend, Ind., August 23. 
(See news pages for additional ite 
Births 

.Mr. and .Mrs. LOUIS DE.MER, '39, a son, Thomas Aquin, May 16. Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS S. DRISCOLL, '40, a son, Francis S., Jr., July 26. .Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. HARRIG,\N, '43, a daughter, Kathleen Marie, July 31. Mr. and Mrs. B. J. MAM.MINA, '44, a daughter, Shaune, August 8. Mr. and .Mrs. ERNEST RAUSCHER, '43, a son. Robert Louis, July 19. -Mr. and -Mrs. ARTHUR M. DIAMOND, '47, a son, Eric Lcnon, August 15. Mr. and Mrs. HENRY S. ROMANO, '47, a son, Michael Anthony, April 2. Mr. and Mrs. JACK ZILLY, '47, a son, James Joseph, August 23. -Mr. and Mrs. JOHN COSGROVE, '48, a daugh­ter, Margaret Mary, June 24. .Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN J. MARGET, '49, a daugh­ter, Susan Ruth, May 25. Mr. and .Mrs. GERALD HEBERLEIN, '50, a son, August 21. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER F. ZENNER, '30, a son, Calli.'t Miller, July 17. Mr. and -Mrs. DONALD T. BERRY, '53, a daughter, Oenise Marie, June 5. .Mr. and .Mrs. C. GEORGE SCHILLING, '53, a son, June 16. .Mr. and .Mrs. WILLIAM D. FARMER, '54, a daughter, Patricia Marie, July 7. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH D',\NTONI, '34, a son, Joseph Charles, Jr., August 4. Lt. and Mrs. VINCENT J. RtVYMOND, JR., '54, a son, Vincent J. Ill, June 12. Lt. and .Mrs. WALTER .M. LANGFORD, JR., '55, a son, July 28. .Mr. and .Mrs. STEPHE.V J. PREVOZNIK, '53, a son, Stephen Joseph, Jr., June 20. Lt. and .Mrs. DAVID McNA.MARA, '36, a son, David Franklin, June 13. Ensign and .Mrs. WILLIA.M C. RIGAU, '37, a son, William C , Jr., July 26. .Mr. and .Mrs. ROBERT J. SaANNELL, '37, a son, August 22. .Mr. and .Mrs. WILLIA.\I F. MURPHY, '38, a daughter on October 8. .Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. WIGGINS, '43, a son, Paul Francis, August 19. Mr. and .Mrs. JOH.V .MAHER, '47, a son, Patrick John, Sept. 2C. -Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK S. NAEGELE, '48, a son, John Cavanaugh, August 22. Mr. and .Mrs. BRAD BENNETT, '48, a son, Kevin Bradley, July 4. .Mr. and Mrs. EDMUND CHARTIER, '49, a son, Edmund J. Jr., in June. .Mr. and .Mrs. THO.MAS J. GARGAN, '49, a daughter, .Maureen Bernadette, June 24. .Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN J. .MARGET, '49, a daugh­ter, Susan Ruth, May 25. .Mr. and .Mrs. JOSEPH G. NAUNL\.N, '49, a ion, Timothy Edu-ard, September 26. .Mr, and Mrs. R.\Y.MOND J. SULLIV.AN, '30, a son, Michael Joseph, Sept. 14. Mr. and .Mrs. JOSEPH S. BOWLING, JR., '52, a daughter, Mary Sharon, August 21. Mr. and -Mrs. D.WID W. .MORIARTY, JR., a daughter, Anne Mildred, September 29. Mr. and .Mrs. ANTHONY GARRUTO, '34, a daughter, Maria, September 11. Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN H. McGINN, '54, a daugh­ter, Frances, July 23. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT WARNER, '53, a daugh­ter, Jeanne, August 10. Mr. and .Mrs. WALTER .M. L,\NGFORD, JR., a son, James Andrew, July 28. 
ms received just before press time.) 
HENRY WURZER, '23, on the death of hU wife, July 23. 
EDWARD J. MOWERY, '28, on the death of his sons, August 27. 
PAUL A. HE.MSIY, JR., '29, on the death of his wife, April 4. 
DONALD F. WISE, '33, on the death of his father, June 20. 
CHARLES E. XLUIER, '35, on the death of his father, July 23. 
JOHN N. CACKLEY, JR., '37, on the death of his father, August 7. 
THO.\US P. SHEILS. '38, on the death of bU son. 
LOUIS FEHLIG, '37, on the death of his father. July 21. 
JOHN F. .MAHER, '47, on the death of his mother, June 15. 
THO.MAS LORSON. '53, on the death of his mother, father and brother, July 3. JOSEPH, JR., '55 and CHARLES C. O'DON­NELL. '51. on the death of their father. July 26. 
ROBERT K., '56 and DONALD D. RUHL, '38. on the death of their father. August. 
Deaths 

WLLIAM DINXEN. '02, died in July, accord­ing to word received in the Alumni Office. 
LOUIS M. FETHERSTON, '04, died July 5. 1957, according to word received in the Alumni Office. 
JEAN (Chauuccy) DUBUC, '10, died on Sep­tember 4, in Florida. He was a former Notre Dame baseball player and star pitcher for the De­troit Tigers, 
BERTRAM E. DANIELS, 'II, died June 6 from a heart ailment. He played baseball for the New York Highlanders, predecessor of the Yankees from 1910 to 1913. The next year he joined the Cincin­nati baseball team and later quit to open his own civil engineering firm. He returned to baseball in 1932 as a coach at Manhattan College. Survivors are his wife, a son and a daughter. 
TO.M B. YOUNG, attended Notre Dame between the years 1912 and 1917, died in Cleveland on August 10 as a result of a heart attack. He was a prominent thoroughbred horseman. 
JOSEPH P. McEVOY, '14, noted novelist, play­wright and poet, died August 8. He began his newspaper career as an tmdergraduatc ai Notre Dame. As a roving editor for the last twenty years for The Reader's Digest, he traveled all over the world. He was the originator and for many years wrote the story line of the comic strip, **Dbcic Dugan." He also wrote at least 10 ptays and re­vues in addition to Broad^vay shows and Hollywood scenarios, novels and short stories for magazines. Survivors are his widow, three daughters and a son. 
FR^VNCIS F. McDERMITT, Sr., '23, died .\ugust 27 very suddenly while \-acati0nin5. A well known basketball player he was a member of state cham­pionship teams and captain of basketball teams at St. Benedict's and Notre Dame. He also played basketball for Army teams during World War I and was elected Monogram winner while at N. D. He was chief investigator of litigated claims lor Public Service Co-ordinated Transport for 33 years. Survivors are his wife, two daughters and a son. 
AMBROSE C. McPARTLAND, '24, died August 4, 1957, according to word just received in the Alumni Office. His widow survives. 
BROTHER VICTOR CZERWINSKI, C.S.C., '26, died August 9 at Columba Hall on the University of Notre Dame campus. He was a teacher for 47 years at Holv Trinity High School, Chicago. 
JOSEPH F. O'DONNELL, SR., '27, died sud­denly on July 26. He was for many years the pro­prietor of O'Donnell's Market and Grocery on Chi­cago's near north side. He was a member of the Campion Council, Knights-of Columbus (Prairie du Chicn, Wisconsin) for 35 years. Survivors are two sons and a daughter. 
GEORGE A. BRx\UTIGAM, '29, dica August 17 from a heart attack. He was a well known public figure in Dade County, Florida. Survivors arc his %vidow and two sons. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ November^ 1958 37 
LOUIS HEITGER, '31, died August 8 in Inbi­anapolis from a heart attack according to word received in the Alumni Office. 
MATTHEW a MESKILL, '29, died August 13 in Galway, Ireland, while \-acationing there. He was 
* known as a "devoted and dedicated citizen" in the State of Connecticut where he was prominent in public ser\-icc. Survivors arc his mother, witli whom he mad his home, and four sisters. 
SISTER M. ROSE GERTRUDE, '33, died August 19 in South Bend, Indiana, according to word re­ceived in the Alumni Office. 
JOHN J. SISCAXAW, '35, died August 27, 1957, according to word received recently in the Alumni Office from his wife. He is also survived by a son and daughter. 
BROTHER .\fALACH\', C.S.C.. '44, died Augmi 25 as a result of a heart attack acconling to word received in the Alumni Office. 
R, SCOTT LEWIS, '56, was killed while piloting a jet plane in Pensaccola, Florida, where he was serving as a Lieutenant in the Xa\'y Air Corps. He is survived by his parenu. 
COL. C\'RIL J. LETZELTER, former comman­der of the Army ROTC at the University of Notre Dame died July 27. He came to Notre Dame in July» 1954, and scr\ed as commander of the Army ROTC until the summer of 1956. He had been in the Army 25 years. He is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. 
50 Year Club 

Wien CHARLES J. BAAB, '00, celebrated his 80th birthday this past summer in IViltes-Barrc, Pa., he received special congratulations from his parish nc\»spaper, St. Nicholas Messenger, the Boy Scout troop committee, Nfothcrs' .Auxiliar>* and the boys of the parish. Mr. Baab is business manager of the weekly paper, a member of the troop committee and the first scoutmaster in the parish. A front-page greeting said: "We sincerely hope that Charley will be with us for many more years." 
ROBERT E. LYNCH, '03, who played and coached baseball at Notre Dame and went on to coach at Clemson and Northwestern, announced his retirement from the Wisconsin Assembly during the summer. Senior member of the Assembly, Mr. Lynch wss first elected assemblyman from the Brown County District (Green Bay) in 1932 and has scr\'ed consecutively since 1942. For many years he was a leader in the improvement of penal and welfare faah'tics and dean of U'iscwnsio's Demo­cratic legislators. Baseball brought him to Green Bay in 1912 to manage the city cnlr>* in the old Wisconsin-Illinois League. He was also associated with pro baseball in the American .^ssn,. Eastern, Western and Southern Leagues. 
The news of "Bobby" Lynch's leaving the legis­lature after 24 years of ser\'icc was contributed by DANIEL J. O'CONNOR, '05, of Chicago, a baseball teammate of Bobby's in the '02 and '03 campaigns, and, as usual, a fixture in the stadium at the home games this fall. 
Notre Dame's semicentcnarians who leave local club afTairs to the youngsters might do well to heed the example of WILLIAM J. L.AKE of Ncwfaurgh, 
N.Y. Mr. lake, who was on campus in 1887 and witnessed the first football game played at Notre Dame, still attends cver>- meeting of the Mid-Hudson Valley Club, and the club officers are very appreciative of his interest and advice. Arc other Fifty-Year Clubbers active in local Notre Dame Clubs? Write in and let us know. 
Ponce de Leon may have been hunting on the wrong coast. One of the alumni in the Los Angeles area mo5t active in an extremely modified retire­ment is MARCELLUS JOSLYN, '93. 
This "active retirement" brings to mind inter­ested and welcome continuing contacts with HARRY G. HOGAN, '04, Fort Wayne, who re­tains a happy enthusiasm for the progress of the Notre Dame Foundation, and still dabbles (for a full and busy day) in law, lumber, tools and dies, and a good golf game, after formally retiring as a bank president. 
When you visit the campus, you may sec a young looking priest along the shore of St. Mary's Lake who will remind you of FATHER CORNELIUS HAGERTl', '06. Just because it is. Father Con is Chaplain at Dujarle, the Brothers of Holy Cross house of studies. His philosophy is still blended with golf, a lot of hiking, and in the summer his favorite canoeing on the St. Joe River, obnously a good recipe. 
Tini Galvin, Junior and Senior, rendezvous at a recent K. of C. installation cercniony on campus as Tim, Sr., former Deputy Supremc Knight, congratulates Tim, Jr., Grand Knight of Council No. 1477 and a senior in Commerce. Tim, Sr,, '16, is on the University's Associate Board of Lay Trustees. 
JUNE 121314 

TI.MOTHY VINCENT HARRINGTON of Coral 
Gables, Fla., visited the campus in late summer with his wife and young daughter Patricia. Tim dropped in to chat at the Alumni Office, and we like to think he was reconnoitering the grounds lor the Golden Jubilee Reunion next year, as ALBERT THOMAS MERTES did in June. 
1910 
Perennial percgrinator BILL SCHMITT was last 
heard from at the Brussels Fair In late July. He 
wrote: "Have been here for a week taking in the 
expo. Expected trip to Moscow has been cancelled, 
so I'm going back to London ^nd then two weeks 
in Tangiers.** 
Classmates were saddened by the death of JEAN 
(CHAUNCEY) DUBUC, who went from Notre ' 
Dame to stardom as a pitcher with the Detroit 
Tigers. Starting with the Cincinnati Reds, he also 
played for New York in the National League and 
for Boston and Detroit in the American. 
Fred L. Steers 

1911 
105 S. LaSalle St. Chicago 3, niinots 

From the Alumni Office: 
The passing of BERT DANIELS, like that of CHAUNCEY DUBUC, revived memories of Notre Dame's major league baseball tradition, once near­ly as strong as the pro football tradition of today. Bert played right field for the Neiv York High­landers, predecessor of the Yankees, until 1913. In 1914 he joined the Cincinnati baseball team, quit­ting subsequently lo open his own civil engineering firm in Nutley, N.J. Returning to baseball in 1932, he coached at Manhattan College, New York, for seven years. Before his retirement in 1956 he went back to dvil engineering as a practitioner and city inspector. Buckncll University, which had a few baseball greats of its own, shared Bert's alle­giance with Notre Dame. 
REV. PETER FORRESTAL, C.S.C., still busy as a professor of modem languages at the Univer­sity, has been putting his Espanol to work in worthy sideline for the past several years provic ing Mass and the Sacraments, spiritual solace an countless other helps and counsels to Spanish speaking migratory workers and llicir families i; the South Bend area. 
191 2 ^-J- "^^"" Kaiser 604 East Tenth St Berwick, Pa. 
From the Alumni Office: 
A famih'ar figure m the Main Building was miss ing for a while when REV. BERNARD LANGE CS.C, was hospitalized. But the resistance is stil strong and Father Lange is back in his wood carving studios in the old natatorium, where hi also conducts weight-lifting classes for a growini number of interested students, and has producec winning teams in this area of intercollegiate com petition. 
The Fall meeting of the Board of Lay Trustee; wHI bring JOHN P. MURPHY, Cleveland, anc WALTER DUNCAN, LaSallc, 111., back to th« campus. You're wrong — not the Army Gam* weekend, but the Purdue weekend. Both membcn have been great assets to the University in theii generous contributions to the efficient admintstratioa of the Associate Board. 
1913 ^^^ ^ ^y™<= 
••'•'' 360 Warner Ave. Syracuse 5, N. Y. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Most of you probably noted that FRED "CY" WILLIAMS was listed under the 1914 Reunion at­tendants. No one knows the reason, except that POYNT DOWNING looked lonesome in that '14 listing. Cy remains a famous and faithful star in '13*5 firmament. 
KEENE FITZPATRICK, retired San Francisco advertising executive, has not retired from his Notre Dame enthusiasms and is gathering his fam­ily in Laguna Beach, Calif., for the Southern California game, a family tradition when S.D. goes West. 
JUNE I2-I3-I4 
YEAR _ RWmON CLASS ' ­
Ron 0*NciII 

1914 
1350 N. Black Oak Dr. South Bend 17, Ind. 

As this is writ-ten, we're anxiously awaiting return of the questionnaires we enclosed," a few da>'5 ago, with our invitation to the 43th reunion of our class next June. 
43 years! That's a long time. But, by the grace of God, nearly half of us are still alive. And we want you all to return, once more, to look up, not down, at the Lady on the Dome. 
News is scarce — but, w*hen your questionnaires come in we hope to give The ALUMNUS for its next issue a rather complete preview of the planned 43ih reunion. 
Father G. F. STRASSNER, '14, writes that he will celebrate his first anniversary* as the first resident priest in Booneville, Arkansas, this Octo­ber. Offsetting the press new*s from Arkansas, he says he is continually finding a more tolerant atti­tude toward religious and social problems in his state. Father Strassner operates out of his sacristy, which is also **my kitchen and dining room." 
Regular correspondent SIMEON FUVNAGAN. '14, is leaving in October with his charming wife, Edith, and ^n , Vincent, for his almost annual trip to Ireland. Sim reports meeting TOM CURRY, 
J. P. McEVOY, DICK BLAKE, and "ZIPPER'* L/\THROF at a recent farewell party for JOE WALSH, who now lives in the S:a:e of Wash­ington. 
Tlie RAY MILLERS of Cleveland recently went wild game hunting with the JIM ROBINS out of Nogalcs, Arizona. 
We have just learned with regret of the death of J. P. McEVOY, '14, probably known to moie 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 

Americans than any other of our classmates. Mac didn't ride into Notre Dame in a horse and bugg, on a freight car as our beloved KNUTE ROCKNE is alleged to have done, or on a motorc>'clc as \vc know dam well "SHORTY" DURRELL did — he probably walked. 
Wc worked with Mac on the old South Bend Times, both of us earning the princely sum of $4 a week. Many a winter night, wc slept together on the rolls of paper in the press room, guarded by the unloaded 32 Colt that was his constant com­panion. But after he **quituated" at ND, Mac quickly achieved both fame and fortune. A priest of Holy Cross administered the Last Sacraments to Mac shortly before his passing. 
A card announces the opening of new law offices in Decatur, Illinois, by Downing (our own POYNT DOWNING), Smith, Prince, Jorgenson & Uhl. Poynt has his son. Bill, in the new firm. We're wondering whether there's another lawyer left in Decatur, and how this firm name is going to sit with BBD&O and Merrill, Lynch, Fierce, Fcnncr and/or Beane, Smith! 
Dr. JOHN DUNDON, '14, of Milwsukcc, has promised to be back in June. "Doc" bursts at the seams when he talks of his nine children, particu­larly his oldest daughter. Sister Msric Louise, S.S.N.D., of the Academy of Our Lady, Chicago; Rev. Thomas R. Dundon, S.J., of St. Louis Uni­versity and Brother Stanislaus, O.C.D., of Catholic University. What wouldn't'the rest of us give for a "prayer wheel" like that working for us! 
See you next issue — with news we're wailing for from YOU! 
10 l C James £. Sanford 1429 W. Farragut Ave. 
Chicago 40, 111. 

From the Alumni Office: When an alumnus wins the "Academy Awartl" it's news, especially when the alumnus is JOSEPH 
M. BYRNE, JR., of Newark, N.J., and the "Academy Award" is the annual achievement award of the Newark Academy Alumni Assn. Mr. Joe Byrne, a member of Notre Dame's associate Board of Lay Trustees, was so honored by 100 of the Newark school's alumni at a dinner June 16. He was presented a plaque, a medal and a folio of congratulatory messages from . his acquaintances among civic leaders, etc., including a telegram from FATHER HESBURGH. Joe was cited "for selfless contributions" to various institutions. A former city commissioner and vice chairman of the Port of New York Authority, he is board chairman of the Joseph ^L Byrne Co., an insurance and travel firm, and has received many honors, including membership in the Knights of Malta and St. Gregory. 
DR. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, recently named to the executive board of UNESCO, has been named by President Eisenhower as a delegate to a general conference of the organization in Paris in November. President of Hunter College since 1940, he is a former managing editor of The Common­weal magazine. 
Grover F. Miller 

1916 
612 Wisconsin Ave. Racine, Wisconsin 

From the Alumni Office: 
TIMOTHY P. GALVIN came down from Hammond Sept. 29 for local installation cere­monies of the Knights of Columbus. A veteran of the Supreme Council and former Deputy Supreme Knight, Tim is an alumni mainstay of Notre Dame's Associate Board of Lay Trustees. His son, Tim, Jr., is following in his dad's footsteps as Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Council while a senior in Commerce. 
FATHER VINCE MOONEY recently moved from Immaculate Conception parish in Kenton and can now be reached at Holy Rosary Rectory, 1651 
E. Main St., Columbus 5, Ohio. 
1917 Edward J. McOsker 
• 2205 Brianvood Road Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: OSCAR JOHN DORWIN, formerly vice presi­dent and general counsel of the Texas Company, was elected senior vice president in September and continues as general counsel. He has been a direc­tor of the company since 1937 and legal chief since 1944. Oscar is also a vice president of the Alumni Association in charge of the annual Alumni Fund. 
JOSEPH A. BEATTIE, '27 "A lighthouse of hope ... " 

In May of this year the Detroit Common Council passed a resolution commending Joseph Beattie, executive director of Frank­lin Settlement, after 30 years of service at the Detroit welfare center. The. resolution congratulated Joe for being "a lighthouse of hope in this community for the displaced, the underprivileged, poor and oppressed." 
Such recognition was not new to Joe Beattie. In 1955 he received the Boys' Clubs of America gold medallion and cer­tificate for outstanding work with boys. In 1956 he received the annual award of the Michigan Chronicle, a Negro weekly, for "dedicating his life to work among the people of the community." 
A native of Charlestown, Mass., Joe did his undergraduate work at Boston College and in 1927 took his A.M. at Notre Dame wth a certificate in Boy Guidance. Presi­dent of his Boy Guidance class, he went to Franklin Settlement immediately. 
Joe ser\'es on the executive board of the National Federation of Settlements and Neighborhood Centers, has been National Chairman of Camping for the same organi­zation and is now National Chairman of its Personnel Standards and Practices Com­mittee. He is presently on the Advisor)* Com­mittee of the Mayor's Commission for Chil­dren and Youth; on the City of Detroit Committee on Neighborhood Conservation and Urban Renewal; is Vice President of the Detroit Council for Youth Service, a Veterans' Re-employmcnt committeeman for Michigan, and a charter member of the National Association of Social Workers and the Catholic Charities Review. 
Joe is married (since 1931), has a 22­year-old daughter and lives at 5768 Berk­shire in Detroit. He ascribes any success he has had in social work to the inspiration of Brother Barnabas, C.S.C., founder of the Boy Guidance School at Notre Dame, and the instruction of Ray Hoyer, former dean of the school. 
1918 Ch»l«W. CaU 225 Paterson Ave. Hasbrouck Heights, N. J. 
Your new secretary has received a wide variety of letters from class members. Encouragins and amazing are the words for the cooperation. 
JOHN VOELKERS, St. Augustine, Fla., informs that he is almost sure to get any news that VINCE GIBLIN overlooks on the Miami front. On the way home from the reunion John stopped off to visit DUTCH BERGMAN, at Irene Byron Hos­pital, and had a junior reunion right there. 
DR. NEIL J. \VHALEN, who with JIM ARM­STRONG, and the writer was bom a few blocks from one another in Jackson, Michigan, is director of psychological clinic of Detroit Public Schools, and gives a great deal of his spare time to direct­ing a school in Haddonfield, N.J., for the mentally retarded. 
"BIG FRANK" RYDZEWSKI, Chicago, comes up with a letter asking the whereabouts of the late ANDY McDONOUGH. Shows Frank should write a little oftcner. Frank concedes that GEORGE WAAGE gave him the necessary jolt to take his pen in hand. 
Nominated for the most distinguished alumnus of oiu- Class is the erudite, 'dapper, not to say petite TOM KING. His full length photo on a recent issue of the Michigan State University Reporter shows just how well wc all should be preserved. How can a man look so young alter 40 years, even if he is Dean of Men, and keeps up with youth? 
And one of the nicest informal "recalls" of the recent reunion was REV. EUGENE BURKE'S de­tails on the night the street car burned. 
JUNE 121314 
CLASS •­

i 
191 9 Theodore C Rademaker Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: 
Professor PAUL FENLON is recovering from a shoulder injjury sustained — some say — when he bade'a friend bood-by and stepped from a moving car. Others claim it could only have been an en­counter with a flying saucer. 
1920 J^™^ ^*^y^ 
107 Magee Ave. Rochester 10, N. Y. From the Alumni Office: It is to be expected that GUILLERMO CROSBY will intercept junketing JOE O'NEILL, '37, for­mer .-Mumni Association president and present lay trustee, on his current trip to Peru. ED MEEHAN, in his sanctum at the South Bend Tribune, had better brace himself for a nudge from JIM RYAN in the next tu-clve months. A vet­eran of the 1950 and *53 reunions, Ed will almost certainly be called upon to repeat hb previous Sterling (note capital S)' performances as local chairman. 
1921 Dan W. Duffy 
• ^ 1101 N.B.C. BIdg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
From the Alumni Office: 
It was pleasant to.discover that KARL PFEIF­FER has come a long way toward recovery from a serious traffic accident and is doing well in Piggot, Arkansas. 
1 922 GcnUd A. Ashe '^ ^ 39 Cambridge St. Rochester 7, N. Y. 
Our deep sympathy is extended to RICARD Mc-CARTY on the death of his sister, Mrs. Josephine Dannemiller of Canton, Ohio, also to Ricard's brother, DOCTOR FRA>*KLL\* McCARTY of Chicago, and to husband of the deceased—FRANK 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November^ 2958 39 
T. DANKEMILLER. The last two mcntjoned were gradnated from X.D. prior to 1922. To EDWARD GOTTRY we tender condolences on the death of his brother, Charles. 
The Hon. AL SCOTT expresses thanks through 
Father George Fischer, C.S.C., to our class for 
Mass said by Father George for AI's Dad . . . 
Joseph Scott of Los Angeles, who died in ^farch. 
Our ver>* best wishes go to Mary Claire Mahoney, 
daughter of the late LEO A. MAHONEY, and 
Mrs. Mahoncy of South Bend who became Mrs. 
William Ma>-ne Haydcn at Christ the King Church 
in South Bend on August 23, and her husband. 
May the ncwlj-weds receive an abundance of God*s 
blessings. A special salute to the mother of the 
bride, who reared a wonderful family after her 
husband died years ago. 

GEORGE KERVER and ^VALTER SHILTS are listed as registrants at the 1958 Class Reunion. EGOX VON MERVELDT is now living at 80 LongIe>* Road, Westbrook, Maine. If you have any news of interest to 1922 men, it belongs in this column—don't keep it to yotu^clf. 
10^ ^ Louis V. Bniggner 
• '^ ^ 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Indiana 

Correspondence, both pre-reunion and post-reunion, continued to pile on the desk of the '23 secretariat this summer, damned up by the secretarial inertia following the feverish 35th re­union. Attendance of '23 men at their reuniom was far bc>-ond previous performances and may never again be equalled, considering the harvest of li\'es to be expected in the years to come. 
The expressions of satisfaction from these who attended was exceeded only by the regrets received from those who didn't. Sickness seems to have been a major factor in preventing some from coming. 
At last reports LINUS GLOT2BACH is conva­lescing from a major surgical siege in June in New York City, where he was treated surgically for Parkinson's disease, according to word received by PACK NORTON from Linus' wife. We suggest that you u*rile Linus a get-well note. His address: 1707 Ford Parkway, St. Paul, Minn. 
The campaign "FRANCIS WALLACE for Con­gress"- continues apace in the 18th Congressional District of Ohio. Notre Dame men everyxvherc in the I8th are urged to give Frank their support, re­gardless of party affiliations. 
FATHER FRED J. ^L^NN, C.Ss.R., was an­other medical casualty of the reunion. At about reunion time. Father Fred wrote from his quarters in Firmin Desloge Hospital, St. Louis, Mo., that he had been confined for eleven weeks after a 
On August 16 John Mulflur, son of baseball monogrammer Walter Mulflur, '29, Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, took First Vows in the Priests' Society, Congregation of Holy Cross. John (left) is shoHTi at Sacred Heart Novi­tiate, Jordan, Minn., with Father William Craddick, C.S.C., '30, former Prefect of Religion at N. D., now Master of Novices at Sacred Heart. 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
myocardial infarction, imd was trying to say ADus 
from his wheelchair. 
The Class of '23 has the distinction of having written both the prologue and the epilogue of the 1958 reunions. FRANK WALLACE'S outstanding piece on reunions prior to the June festivities was equalled in insight and net worth by the summation which appeared in CLIFFORD WARD'S column in the Fort Wa>'ne, Ind., paper. Readers of THE ALUMNIJS are urged to hunt up the '23 notes in the August-September issue for another look at the Fort Wayne column, reprinted in that issue. 
A post card postmarked Tangier, Morocco, from KEN KRIPPENE and wife Jane says: "Greetings from the land of veiled women, mangy camels, and snake charmers. Oathering material for a new book." 
Class officers who had served since 1953 were re­elected at the '58 reunion in a stampeded election that left the electees no choice. Officers are: JACK NORTON. President;- ED' SHEA, Vice-President; LOUIS V. BRUGGNER; .Se^etary; JOSEPH W. NYIKOS, Treasurer. Regional Vice-Presidents car­ried over are: E. VINCE BROWN, THOMAS F. LEAHY, ALBERT PICKS, DUKE HODLER, MURRAY POWERS, PAUL CASTNER, FRAN­CIS WALLACE, REV.FRANaS CAVANAUGH. HENRY LAUERAL\N. Of the 13'officers, ID were in attendance at the reunion. 
From the Alumni Office: REV.- LEO R. WARD, C.S.C., was at Fort Riley, Kansas, in July observing field training of ROTG troops from Notre Dame. 
JUNE 1213-14 
1 094 James R. Mcchan ^ 329 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: Word was just recently received on the death of AMBROSE C. McPARTLAND in 1937. His >%-ido>v had not known where to send the information. She has since remarried and is now Mrs. Ruth Mc-Partland Housel, 31 Rowley Drive, Rochester 11, New York. 
1 925 Jolin p. Hurley '** * 2085 Brookdalc Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
This summer, that handsome President of the Class of 1926 JOHN J. RYAN was kind enough to send me a clipping about JOHN. W. SCALLAN. Jack, who has been vice-president and general man­ager,, has been elected president of Pullman-Standard Car Mfg. Co. 
The article stated that Jack has been with the 
company for 32 years. He has been Wce-presidcnt 
and general manager since 1933. He is also a vice-
president and director -of Pullman, Inc. 
Jack—belated congratulations! We' knew back in *25 when you turned out the best "Dome" to that date that you would be tops in whatever field you chose. 
Thanks to you JOHN RYAN for this big scoop. It missed the deadline of our last column. 

We were sorr>' to learn of the death of Dean JA.MES E. MCCARTH Y JuIy 11th. He became dean during our da^-s. As Father Edmond P. Joyce, C.S.C., Acting President at the time of his death, said, "Dean McCarthy's death is a personal loss to all who enjoyed the benefits of his leadership and example and the strong and impressive per­sonality which accompanied it." 
We were sorry to learn of the death of John A. Hillenbrand, the father of JOHN W. HILLEN­BRAND of our class, and WILLIAM A. of the Class of '27. He died March Ilth. 
HANK WTFRZER, our treasurer, suffered the loss of his wife Marg (Kahl) Wurzer in early August. Hank, I know the fellows will offer their sympathy iand prayers for your wife.-I personally wish to 
again express my deepest sympathy and as you 
wrote me she had a beautiful death with a pncst 

and her entire family with her at her bedside. 
. I saw DON MILLER at the wedding of my 
niece Sheila Hahn. (She married an N.D. chap— 
BILL CLEMENS, '56, of South Bend.) Don looks 
fine. BEN RESTING called to tell me he is 
grandpop again—it's four now! 
I hope ever>'one ordered tickets for the Army-

N.D. game October 11th. That was the date of the Class of '25 annual cocktail party. It was in the same room at tlie Morris Inn, where we were joined by the Class of *28. The clan gathered right after the game. Many brought game guests or memben of their families. 
Through the years '25 columns have been written under funny circumstances to meet a deadline,^ This one is being written on the Pennsylvania Turnpike on a return trip from New York. We drove over to the big city to pick up our daughter Patricia who graduated from St. Mary's in June and then went to Europe with twelve of her class­mates. We also visited our other daughter. Sister Maria Patrice at MaryknoII. 
While there, Mrs. Hurley threw "a block" for a priest while both were trying to cross Fifth Avenue (with the green light) to go to Mass at St. Pat's. The priest made it. Mrs. Hurley ended up in a hospital v%ith a broken leg, arm and shoulder. She's getting along -as well as anyone who personally tries to stop a Fifth Avenue busl After a week in a New York hospital she's fl>ing home to try out a Toledo hospital. 
If any of you fellows have four season tickets in the first ten rows and would like to exchange them for four at the very lop of the stadium, just drop a line to your secretary and we will make a deal. It looks like Mrs.. "H " will be laid up for at least two months. She has a lot to be thankful for and with all MaryknoII praying for her, I kno\< everything will be o.k. 
Here's a letter from GIL SCHAEFER: "WhUe vacationing here (Mayo Hill Colony Club, Capa Cod, Mass.) I have been reading the last issue of the ALUMNUS including your notes on the class of '25. It was like hearing from the beyond to read remarks by GEORGE SHEEHE and your hope that he would be at the cocktail party after the Army game. No doubt he will be there with us and perhaps we can drink one to his memory. Passed through New York on the way up here and talked with JOHN TRAYNOR. We especially dis­cussed JQHN R. MORAN of Denver whom TRAYN.OR has visited recently, you, our hard working class secretary and that other hard worker in the behalf of our class, JIM ARMSTRONG. Your efforts to keep '25ers informed about their classmates are certainly appreciated. Sincerely GIL SCHAEFER." Gil, many thanks, and it shows that we have to keep praying for our classmates living and dead. Gil's address is Hillcrest Drive, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. I would also like to extend my sympathy to ELMER LAYDEN in the loss of his mother in late June. Mrs. Layden died in Davenport, Iowa, after a lingering illness. 
Warren Fogel, *30, visiting the campus on a New York-to-Califomia trip, points to license plates which, he hopes, prophesy that "this is our year." 
From the Alumni Offce: 
When \vc last heard In the summer, B. J. Mc-MEEL was hospitalized In Dallas with internal hemorrhages and was being aided by blood donors from the Notre Dame Club of Dallas. Barney has had adversity compounded on adversity in recent years. In addition to his other setbacks, his wife. Lillian, has been suffering from a prolonged ill­ness. Prayers would be in order if only in thanks­giving if things are now looking better for Barney. 

HARRY STUHLDREHER spoke at the banque: of the Coaches-Physicians Conference on Athletic Injuries, sponsored by Indiana medical and ath­letic associations at the State Fairgrounds in In­dianapolis, October 23. 
Xew Rochclle, N.Y., Mayor GEORGE VER­GARA has had trouble trying to get a permanent city manager. Overwhelming choice of the City Council is a former stenographer who has Been acting as a substitute, but at last report the lady was unable to make up her mind whether she wants the job as a permanent headache. 
GEORGE F. DRISCOLL has joined the faculty of the University of Dayton as an associate pro­fessor of civil engineering. 
JOSE L. TREVINO, up from Mexico, has lo­cated in Hollywood, Cal., and intends to be active in the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles. 
ARTHUR W. SAJEWSKI, medical service repre­sentative with Eli Lilly for 25 years, was honored at a dinner in the Morns Inn this past summer. 
I gOL  Rudy  Goepfrich  
• '^* '  1109 N. Cleveland Ave.  
South Bend 28, Indiana  

You will Have noted from the obituary list in the last issue of the ALUMNUS that we have lost tw« more of our class members. TOM SHERIDAN died on June 20, and MAURICE COUGHLIN on July 7. Both have been enrolled in the Holy Cross Missions Purgatorial Society. 
Of Tom Sheridan's death, TOM FARRELL, our Eastern Vice President, writes: **DAN 0*NEILL, JERRY HAYES and I were able to get to the wake and spoke with Mrs. Sheridan. A Mass has been said for him as coming from his classmates." 
I missed AL W. JOHANNES on a recent trip to Florida but did get some dope on him. He is now living on Treasure Lsland in St. Petersburg, Fla., and is an associate in the Law ORices of Ed 
W. Harris. He is also President of the Lake Shore Canning Company, Cleveland, Wisconsin. In 1926 .M married Janet Godersky and they have two children, Sarah Jane Kalish, and James, who graduated from N.D. in June, '58. .Al's hobby is woodworking; he e.xpects to attend our 35th re­union in 1961. 
BROTHER VICTOR (CZERWINSKI), who received one of his degrees in our class year, died on August 9, while visiting at Notre Dame. Brother Victor was a teacher for 48 years at Holy Trinity High School in Chicago, where he was also a former principal and religious superior. Last March, he was honored at a testimonial dinner at the high school marking his 50th anniver5ar>- as a Brother of Holy Cross.­
\Ve received a card from Ona and JOHN RYAN from Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, where they were vacationing. 
LESTER J. CLARKE, who came to Notre Dame from New York City, and graduated in Chemical Engineering, is now in Oklahoma City, Okla., where he is a Sanitar>' Engineer, Water Supply, in the Oklahoma State Department of Health. In 1943 Les married Mar>* White. His hobbies are numismatics and golf; he would like to hear from BILL FOOHEY. Les was back for our 30th re­union and expects to attend our 35th in 1961. 
I heard from ED CROWE. He is li\-ing in De­troit, Mich., where he is Executive Director of the Catholic Youth Organization in the Archdiocese of Detroit. Some of the offices which he has held are: Prcs., Detroit Catholic High Schcool Athletic League; Pres. Federation of Catholic Charities, Archdiocese of Detroit; Chairman, Detroit Com­mission on Children and Youth; Sec'y, Detroit Archdioccsan Development Fund; etc. In 1928 Ed married Bernice Mary Hedge; they have five boys, one girl and sLx grandchildren. Ed attended our 25th and 30th reunions and hopes to make the 35th. 
From the Alumni Office: Your Secretary failed to report that he has been busy on a planning committee for the First Inter­national Skid Prevention Conference at the Uni­yersity of Virginia, September 8-12. We ar« reli-
JAY WALZ, '29 Fiddles, fiction and foreign affairs 
In covering the continuing crisis in the Middle East the New York Times has re­lied heavily on the colorful dispatches of Jay Walz, who departed for Ankara, Turkey, as a Times correspondent just before the story broke. 
Colorful as those dispatches are, they arc no more colorful than Jay Walz' career as a musician, critic, writer of fiction and all-round newspaperman. 
A native of South Bend, Jay grew up on a nearby farm, attended rural grade school and South Bend Central High before en­tering the University. 
At Notre Dame, he once said, he de­veloped "a passion for anon>*mity while playing second violin on the varsit}- string quartet." .After graduation he began news­paper work as a reporter and music critic for the South Bend News-Times. He also created music news by helping found and becoming the first president, in 1934, of the South Bend Symphony, for which he continued to write program notes for many years. 
In 1935 he went to Washington, D. C;, and joined the City Staff of the Washington Post, working six years as a reporter, fea­ture editor and assistant city editor. He resigned in 1942 and ser\'ed eighteen months as information officer in the Office of Price Administration. 
Jay joined the Times Washington Bureau in 1943 and served as assistant to the bureau manager until he was assigned to Turkey last spring. 
In 1934 Jay married Audrey Boyers of South Bend, a magazine writer and mystcr>­novelist under the name of Francis Bon­namy. They have two sons, Christopher and Terry, and collaborate on historical novels like "Bizarre Sisters," published in 1950, and the recent "Undiscovered Country." 

ably informed that this has nothing to do with Skid Row, so Riidy. has not taken up welfare work. He was. merely working in his capacity.as chief engineer for the brake division of Bendix Aviation. 
Folger's Dictionary of Baseball, a booklet on baseball rulu and teniiinolog>', available througH 
J. A. Folgcr & Co., San Francisco sponsor of the Giants broadcasts, is the work of ROBERT V. (BERT) DUNNE, director of public relations for John O'Rourke Advertising, Inc. More than twelve million copies of Bert's baseball books have been printed in English, Japanese, German, Italian and Spanish. They include "Play Ball, Son," '*PlaT Ball," "Batter Up," "Winning Baseball," "Gym­nasium Baseball," "Ted Williams, Swing King," "Glove Magic" and "Baseball Syllabus.*' Bert has just finished a new book, *'The Ball is Always Round," an entertaining analysb of the game's changes through the years. 
JOE HARRINGTON wrote in to ask: "Are any of the '26 Class fishermen, hunters, or field trialera [hunting dogs)? Re last is A. F. Hockwalc, the field trial expert, father of the guy who used to be in Badin, Class of '25 I think." So far no sportsman has come forth, but fisherman ART HALEY. Any others? Let RUDY GOEPFRICH know. 
1 927 Clarence J. Ruddy ^ ^ ' 32 S. River St. Aurora, Illinois 
On a bright, sunny afternoon in early June, I received a long dbtance telephone call. Even before identifying himself, the caller wanted to kno%v why I was not attending the 31st reunion of my class at Notre Dame. I was somewhat taken aback by the rebuke, because I was not conscious of having been derelict in my duty of calling attention to this particular reunion. It turned out that the voice belonged to MARC FIEHRER, who \vas cel­ebrating this anniversary of our graduation with JACK REIDY in the halls of Notre Dame. Jack also got on the phone and I had no trouble as­certaining that both were enjo^nng themselves, even though other classmates were absent. Both ,are successfully continuing the practice of law in their respective home communities. Marc in Hamilton, Ohio, and Jack in Cleveland. I did not know it at the time, but I later learned from the ALUMNUS that Jack had recently received the "Man of the Year" aw*ard from the Notre Dame Club of Cleve­land. From the list of his achievements, everyone can readily see that he richly deserved this honor. . 
A few weeks ago I received notice of the death of JOSEPH F. O'DONNELL. He left a rich heri­tage of Notre Dame tradition. Two sons are Notre Dame men. Charles %%-as graduated in I93l and Joseph in 1955. The latter is now a member of the Order at Holy Cross Seminary. 
I hope to see some classmates at one or more of the home football games this fall._ If any of you happen to run into one another and collect some interesting news, pass it along. I will be glad to hear from you 3t any time. 
1 928 Loius F. Buckley ^^ 135 Blue Hills Parkway Milton 86, Mass. 
(Ed. Note: LOU BUCKLEY has been so busy that we can't understand how he finds time to deluge us with so much copy about his classmates. Beside being general chairman and retiring pres­ident of the National Catholic Social Action Con­ference, which convened on campus September 4­7 and is treated in this issue, Lou was the author of a highly informative article, "What You Should Know About Social Security," in the August 9 Ave Maria magazine and was given a fine tribute, "Social Justice—^Thc Hard Way," in the People of the Month section of September's The Sign magazine.—^J.L.) 
I was very sorry to hear of the sudden death of MAURICE COUGHLIN of Erie, Pa., on July 7. Maurice received his A.B. in 1926, so he has been listed in that class rather than ours. Since he re­ceived his LL.B. with us in 1928, I wrote to him before our reunion inviting him to attend. He re­sponded immediately indicating he would try to make the reunion and he enclosed a contribution for our class treasury. Maurice has been assistant city solicitor of the City of Erie, Pa., and prac­ticed law there. He ser\*ed as Chairman of the Erie County Democratic Committee in 1936 and in 1946. He was married in 1943. He had no children. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ November^ 1958 42 
Salvatorc A. Bontempo, *32, center, is shown at the time of his swearing in as a member of Governor Robert B. Meyner*s cabinet. Governor Mcyner,_at left, joins the Bontempo sons, Paul and Thomas, in holding the family Bible, while Mrs. Bontempo observes the proceedings. The oath of office to Commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Conservation and Economic Development was administered by Justice of the Supreme Court Harry Hehcr, extreme right. 
We are arranging for a Mass to be offered for his 
soul. Please remember him in your prayers. 
Maurice's widou' asked me to convey her appre­
ciation for the Mass. She also sent clippings giNing 

us some details '^on his death. Maurice suffered a 
fatal heart attack while talking with two clients 
in his office in Erie on July 7. He had been under 
treatment for a heart condition for some time. 
Please remember your deceased classmates in 

your pravcrs especially during the month of Xo­
vcrabcr. FATHER McSHANE, S.J., will offer a 
Mass for them on Nov. 2, FATHER FITZGER­
ALD, C.S.C., on Xov. 9, and FATHER MUL­
REANY, CS-C, on Nov. 23. Add the names of 

MAURICE COUGHLAN. JAMES C. TOOMEY 
and MARTIN J. CLEARY to the list of deceased 
classmates sent to you in April. 
JOHN CARROLL sent a clipping announcing that Father JIM McSHANE, S.J., has been trans­ferred from Denver to St. Malachy's Church, 2904 Clark St., St. Louis 3, Mo., on August 13. Father Jim has been well known in the Denver area for his work with underprivileged youth. He has been coordinator of actintics and a member of the Board of Trustees of the Larimer Street Voca­tional School in Denver since its founding in 1952. He also served as cliairman of the Labor-Management Citizens* Commission of Denver. Father Jim will not be new in his work in the St. Louis slum areas, as he uas stationed there at St. Elizabeth's in 1941. In addition to hts assign­ment to the colored parish, he will also work at a city hospital. Homer Phillips. You have our best wishes. Father Jim, for continued success in your work with those who are in great need of your assistance. 
TIM TOOMEY, who is in Boston with the Amer­ican Casualty Insurance Co., advised me of the death of the sister of BILL (TURK) KELLY. 
We stopped to see ART MITIGUY in Burling­ton, Vermont, in June. Art's son is associated with him in the Burlington Drug Co. there. He has two daughters, one in social ivork and the other a teacher in Vermont. The Mitiguy's have three grandchildren. 
We had dinner uilh GLEN HATCH in Boston. Glen lives at I04I Holly Tree Road, Abington, Pa. 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, Novembeu 1958 
He Is Vice President and Sales Manager of the 
Hercules Cement Co., a division of the American 
Cement Corp. Glen has two children and is now a 
grandfather. 
JOHN (IKE) VOEDISCH mentioned at the re­
union that TOM HEARNDON, '27, was ill at the 
Wood Veteran Hospital, Ward 9 South, Wood, Wis­
consin. 
I have received reports of get-togethers by a number of '28 men this summer. RAY MULLIGAN told me about the VINCE CARNEY convention at their place in Wisconsin in July which, in addi­tion to the hosts and their six children, included the JIM ALLANS and their son, the ED MANDE­VILLES, '26, and two of their four children, and RAY and his three children. A repeat performance was arranged in August at Ray's place. BERNIE GARBER had dinner with BILL CRONIN and GEORGE CRONGEYER just before George left for Europe for a long vacation. BILL CRONIN'S daughter has been graduated from Manhattanville College. DICK GREENE of Muncic, Indiana, met STEVE SHERRY in Mexico City this summer. VINCE CARNEY saw Father JIM McSHANE in Denver this summer. Vince saw him at Regis Col­lege where he was conducting a retreat. \^ncc reports that Father Jim seemed to be in fine health, completely recovered from his serious operation. Vince presented Father with his shirt and tie and monogram '28 from the 30-year reunion. Father Jim recalled jokes JACK LAVELLE told him five years ago. JOHN MURPHY wrote from Colutn­bus how much he, JOHN IGOE, TOM HART and PAUL FALTER enjoyed getting together to sec our 25-ycar reunion film. 
Our famous reunion chairman, Father ANDY MULREANY, C.S.C., tells me that he saw LOUIS ECKSTEIN, his wife, daughter and son this sum­mer in South Bend. Louis lives In Br>*son City, No. Carolina, and is in the tobacco business. Father Andy visited and played golf this summer with FRED WAGNER, '29, in Tiffin, Ohio. JOE HILGER from Columbus, Inc., got together with ED McKEOWN this summer at Ed's place. ED RAFTER called your Class Secretary when he %vas going through Boston this summer on his way to Nova Scotia on his vacation. Ed mentioned that he ran across the name of HARRY ENGEL, an art authority, who apparently maintained quarters in one of the Boston hotels. I checked on this lead hoping to locate our classmate by that name who has been on our "lost" list for some time. Unfor­tunately, I was unable to locate him In Boston. 
BILL ARMIN Is super\-isory auditor at the U.S. Audit Agenc>', Caldcr BIdg., Birmingham 3, Ala. AL JOHNSON of Niles, Michigan, is a salesman with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. He has a daughter at Michigan State University. Al spent some time this summer in Fort Wayne where he saw BERNIE SCHUH. Bernic is an inspector of naval material as a government contract adminis­trator. He has one daughter. ED BRESNAHAN is Assistant Manager of the Retail Credit Co. In Omaha, Nebr. FRANK McCARTHY Is Office Manager for the Evangeline Milk Co. and JOSEPH 
J. \L\DDEN is with the Lincoln National Life Insurance Co. in Fort Wayne. JOHN J. McSOR-LEY, JR., Is Vice-President of the Empire Corp. and Sterling Land Company in Pittsburgh. JERRY RAYBURN has returned to hb home town of Chicago at 8238 South Ellis Ave. 
JOHN CAIN wrote expressing his regrets at not being able to attend the reunion because of court cases in which he was Involved. John practices law in Elklns, West Virginia. He has four children, ages 10 to 19. His oldest boy is at Davis & Elklns College. 
FRANK CREADON had a letter from BART iHHONEY at the time of the reunion. He is prac­ticing laxv in Casper, Wyoming, Bart has five chil­dren and is now a grandfather. 

I drove through Greenfield, Mass,, late In June and inquired as to whether anyone remembered my old roomate, WILLARD WAGNER. I found that not only everyone who looked our age in the town remembered him, but discovered he had re­turned to town that weekend from South Bend for his high school reunion. Unfortunately, I was unable to locate him and had to proceed to my destination without seeing him. 
FRANK QUINN told me at the time of the reunion about a close call he had experienced re­cently. Frank was caught in a storm on the golf course in Lexington, Ky. He and two other golfers were on a scooter when one of his companions \\-as killed instantly by a bolt of lightning and the other was badly burned. Fortunately, Frank had only a slight bum on one hand. Needless to say, It did not discourage Frank as far as golf is con­cerned, as he spent considerable time on the Notre Dame golf course during the reunion weekend with NORB SEIDENSTICKER, ROGER BRES­LIN and JOHN DAVIS. 
AL SCHNURR gave me the following round-up on the architects who attended the reunion: "As everyone ' else who attended the 30th, the archi­tects certainly did enjoy themselves. For a recap, the following were there: DAVE SMITH, ROY WORDEN, ARNOLD THOMA, JACK CANI­ZARO and, of course, myself. PAUL BRUST had been planning on attending but, at the last min­ute practically, he v-'as forced to cancel out be­cause of a sudden illness of his wife. We all hope she is O.K. now. JACK SON'NHALTER sent me a note that he would be unable to get away — the rest of the gang didn't even send vac a post card — dam their hides! 
"DAVE SMITH, of course, has taken up resi­dence In Lake Worth, Fla., and has 'retired' — some class to him! ROY WORDEN is still very active in South Bend and doing a wonderful job. ARNOLD THOMA is active in good old Pioua, Ohio, and doing O.K. for himself. JACK C^NI­ZARO is still in the deep South, and between raising thoroughbred cattle and doing architectural work manages to keep pretty busy. As for me, I'm still in the general contracting business with some architectural work as a side issue — just returned from a 6,000 mile trip by car with the wife from way out west, visiting our son, Ronnie ('56), who is in the Air Control & Warning Squadron at Othello, Washington. 
"As you know, ROY WORDEN wanted us to visit his new house in South Bend and also meet his new wife and family. We had a very enjoyable visit at his place and his house and new family are 'tops.' " 
The journalists of the Class of 1928 got together for lunch Saturday noon during the reunion week­end at the South Bend Press Club. It lasted long enough for Pulitzer prize-winning classmate ED MOWERY to collect a parking ticket. (More and sadder news about Ed later.) Attending were GEORGE KELLEY. JOHN RICKORD, EDWARD MOWERY, BERNARD GARBER, DICK GREENE, EUGETJE FARRELL, JOSEPH BREIG, and GEORGE SCHEUER. The group suggested, accord­ing to report from GEORGE SCHEUER, the initiation of some form of cooperative activity with the University's Department of Communica­tions Arts. Tills might be a general session of jour­nalists of all reunion classes each year or perhaps a conference of journalism graduates and students sometime earlier in the year with perhaps an address by some outstanding newsman and some shop talk by a panel. GEORGE SCHEUER has promised to kick it around awhile and see what can be developed along this line. 
SWEDE SCHROEDER mentioned at the reunion that STAN GRINAGER operates the Ramble Inn located on High^%-a7 10 near Becher, Minn. Bill KIRWAN tells me that CHARLIE CASH of Ana­mosa, Iowa, is with Collins Electronics. DAN VER­RILLI is in the bakery business in Morrbtou-n, 
N.J.
 GEORGE McLINEY is vice president and manager of the municipal department of the George 

K.
 Baum & Co. in Kansas City, Mo. George has four children, ages 7 to 20. His oldest son was grad­uated from Rockhurst this year. FRED SOLNfAN owns the Calumet Furniture Co. in Hammond, In­diana. His store specializes in early American furni­ture. Fred has one son, age 13. 


There is still considerable interest in our study of "The Life and Opinions of the Notre Dame Class of 1928." Father Edward DufT, S.J., Editor of Social Order, used our questionnaire as the basis foi a study of his silver jubilee class at Holy Cross College this year. JACK WIGGINS, secre­tary of the Class of 1943, also made use of our study in carrying out a similar project for his 15­ycar reunion this year. 
FRANCIS MEYER did a great job on preparing for us a composite picture with appropriate art work of pictures he took at the reunion. I trust each of you received a copy of this picture with my neu-slettcr in September. JOHN CARROLL and DICK GREENE also took some excellent pic­tures which we hope to get to you eventually. 
F. K. JAMES O'BRIEN, wKo is a stock broker with A. M. Kidder & Co., Miami, Fla., wrote to FRANCIS MEYER indicating how much he re­gretted missing the 30th. As Jim put it, he was getting a little more repair work done on his stomach at the time to make him look trim. Jim has live children and five grandchildren. 
I wish to supplement my report in the May-June ALUMNUS concerning a further response to my mailing to fellows who were with our class back in 1924. JOSEPH P. PUIG is business manager of the medical and surgical clinic in Laredo, Te.x:is. He has five children and two grandchildren. He has been active in the Knights of Columbus, the Elks and Lions. FRED J. ENT2IAN, who lived in South Bend when he was in school, is now liWng at 8103 Indian School Road, N.W., Albuquerque, New Mexico. 
I was pleased to note that BILL MAHIN, pres­ident of the Malleable Rcscarcli and Development Foundation, Granville, Ohio, was appointed as a member of ' Notre Dame's Advisory Council for Science and Engineering. 
BILL DOWDALL advised me of the tragic death of ED MOWERY'S two sons on Aug. 27. Mike, a sophomore at N.D., and his brother, Bill, who was 
•to have entered as a freshman in September, were swimming at Lake George, New York, when they drowned. I have written to Ed extending our deepest sympathy. Ed has a daughter, age 15, who attends the Dominican Academy in New York City. He is carrying on in prize-winning fashion as a writer for the Newhouse newspapers. 
We were pleased to read that JIM SHOCKNES­SY, Columbus attorney and chairman of the Ohio Turnpike Commission, was invested as a Knight of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre at ceremonies on Sept. 6 in St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York City. The conferring of the high ecclesiastical honor on Jim by Pope Pius XII was announced by Car­dinal Spellman. Jim is the first layman of the Columbus diocese to receive the honor. He is active in many civic, philanthropic and governmental acti\'ities. He has been chairman of the Bar Exam­ining Committee for the Supreme Court of Ohio. He was awarded an honorary LL.D. by Wilbcr­force University in 1957 for his work in community relations and was cited by Kappa Alpha Psi Frater­nity in 1955 for promoting a policy of non­discrimination. 
FATHER MARK FITZGERALD, C.S.C., did an outstanding job as chairman of the conference committee for the National Catholic Social Action Conference which was held at Notre Dame early In September. I ser\xd as general chairman and pres­ident of the conference. JOHN Q. ADAMS, '26 was chairman of the conference group on employ-
Father Mark, who is director of the industrial relations* section of the University of Notre Dame Economics Department, has been appointed to the 
Commander John D. Gavan, '40, of Char­lotte, N. C, displays a docmnent signed hy Georgia Governor Marvin GrifiSn proclaim­ing his NAS Atlanta air reserve squadron as "First Naval Wing of the Confederate Expeditionary Force." 
research and education committee of the National Academy of Arbitrators. Father Mark has done some outstanding work as an arbitrator. 
Tlie director of the Institute of Industrial Rela­tions of St. Joseph's College in Philadelphia told me at the conference of the excellent work CHAR­LEY SHORT is doing as a teacher of the Econom­ics of Collective Bargaining in the Institute. Charley practices law in Philadelphia, specializing in labor law. I met FRANK DONOVAN and JOHN CARROLL on the campus during the con­ference. John and his son were on the way to Cleveland where his son was entering Gilmour Academy. 
In South Bend I talked to RON RICH, who has been ill since before our reunion. Ron hoped to be able to return to his teaching at the University soon. Please pray for a speedy recovery* for Ron. 
I noticed HOWIE PHALIN's picture in the Chicago Sun-Times for Sept. 4. The article de­scribed Howie's address to 800 World Book sales managers. He is executive ncc president and direc­tor of World Book Eno'clopedia Sales, one of the largest direct selling organizations in the country. 
From the Alumni OfHce: Kathleen Anne Hamilton, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. HAMILTON, married George Gcrardi August 9 in Manhasset, L.I. 
JUNE I2-I3-I4 
/RtVJWOH CLASS • " ~ 
'mmf' 
1 92 9 Larry Stauder Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Indiana' 
The members of the Class of '29 extend their 5>Tnpathy to the families of FRANCIS GUSHING, GEORGE BRAUTIGAM and MATTHEW C. MESKILL. Francis died in Indianapolis on May 25. Your secretary's record gives c/o Mrs, John Gushing, 18 West 54th Street, Indianapolis 8, In­diana, as Francis' former address. George died August 17. Mn . Brautigam resides at 4311 Univer­sity Drive, Miami, Florida. Matthew died August 13 in Galway, Ireland, where he was on \-acation. He resided with his mother, Mrs. John A. Meskill, 101 Greem%*ood Street, New Britain, Connecticut. The members of our class will especially remember the souls of these most recently departed in our prayers. 
Thank you '29ers who promptly replied to the letter of inquiry recently mailed to you. More than one-third of those who replied in the early returns will attend the Army game and three-fourths will attend the Class Reunion, June, 1959. Those who see the Army game will have received mailings on the Class of '29 reunion of OctiAer 11. The next issue of the ALUMNUS will tell the rest of the Class how that event was accepted. 
The ne%vs Items which follow are in the order they were received by your secretary. (* Indicates that he expects to attend our June, 1959 Reunion.) 
LOUIS F. HANEY* (formerly OBLIGATO) of Newark, New York, father of daughters Patrida Ann, Rosemary Ann and Arlene Loretta, writes that he recently \-isited with JACK I. GREY of Belfast, New York. 
PAUL A. HEMNfY, JR.,» Juneau, Wisconsin, writes the sad news that his wife passed away on April 4, 1958. (Please remember her soul in your prayers.) Son David, 18 years, will enroll at Notre Dame this fall. Paul, an attorney, is President of the Dodge County Title Company and Vice-Chairman of the Democratic State Committee. 
JAMES M. CURRY* and his wife Kathryn have a daughter, Sheila, at Regis College. Weston, Mas­sachusetts. Jim is President of Swimco Inc., he is active in Civil Defense in Great Neck, L.I., where he is Chief of Service Police. 
J. HARVEY DALY,* HyattsWlIe, Maryland, of 
J. Har\*ey Daly and Associates, Washington, D.C., is a Labor Relations and Management Consultant. He and wife, Joan Masterson Daly, are prond parents of identical twin daughters, Anne Carson and Maura Aiken, age 4. Har\-cy is a member of the President's Committee on Employment of the Physically Handicapped, and Chairman of the 
D.C. Commissioner's Committee on Employment of the Ph\-sically Handicapped. He recently sai^ JIM CURRY and LARRY .MOORE. 

REYNOLDS SEITZ,* Dean of Marquette Uni­versity Law School, has had an active >ear includ­ing travel and speaking engagements for The National Organization on Legal Problems in Edu­cation (NOLPE) of which he has been national president. He and wife, Anne, have daughters Eileen (16); Kathleen (13); Dianne (9); Louise (8). Reynolds recently saw JOSEPH P. HART­NETT in New York City. 
FRANK G. HEUPEL,* Evergreen Park. Illinois, is Manager of Sales Service, Silex Company. His wife, Mary, is a 1953 St. Slary's graduate. Son, John, age 19, was at N.D. last year and b now at Wilson. Frank writes "IRV CORCORAN is fine and still an excellent pianist and vocalist. CLARE JANS is now a grandfather. His son, Nick, was recently involved in a jet collision but both pilots escaped with minor injuries. BOB DARLING, '33, (I think) monogram winner in track, now weighs some 250 pounds and looks good. He is well on his way to a Vice-Presidency at DuPont. I saw htiri on his way to Salt Lake City to give a talk at a convention. He has two swell kids.^' 
ED DEBAENE* of Detroit Edison Company and wife, Eleanor,, will be among those back for the Army game. Son, Ted, Is a junior at N.D. 
JOHN R. BROWN* Attorney, Racine, ^Visconsin, has a son, Mike, N.D. '55, now at Arizona Law School; a daughter, Calllsta Pat, a senior at U. of New Mexico, and Sheila at home. John is active on the Cit>* Plan Commission, Curative Workshop Board, etc. 
PAUL D. HOLAHAN* is %«th the Ohio Bell Telephone Company, Cleveland. He and wife, Do­lores, have sons, Daniel J., 10 years, and Mark P., 8 years old. Daddy is active in Cub Scouts and related activities. 

PAUL C. BARTHOLOME\V, Professor of Polit­ical Science at N.D., gave Michigan State Univer­sity the privilege of his competent services this summer. He was Visiting Professor during their summer session, 
JOSEPH SMIETANKA,* of Smietanka and Gar^ rigan. Attorney's, Chicago, reports a wife, Marie, of legal age; daughters. Sue, 21, B.S. Loyola U., Chicago; Linda, 16, a senior in High School,, and 


Notre Dame Alumnus, November^ 1958 43 
son, Paul, age 7. About the 1959 reunion, your friend has this to say, "I would like lo sec first hand the fattened up, stooped and prematurely balding class members I read about from time to time—and if the occasion lends itself to such activ­ity to get back some of the monc\- that I contrib­uted to my more fortunate friends in guessing games." Joe is an enthusiastic booster for RAV DRYMALSKI, Chief Justice of the Municipal Court of Chicago, and for the effective work he and his associates have done in trafiic control in Chicago. Many lives have been save. Joe writes, "Ray is devoting considerable time to a situation that lias all but engulfed the country and has been kicked under the rug by most of us." 
ED J. FAHEY, of Xorthwcstem Bell Telephone 

Company, St. Paul, Minnesota, is undecided on at­
tendance of the 1959 Reunion; we trust that hts 
good friends JERRY McKAY, '29, of National 
Cash Register Company, TOM LEE, '29, of Xorth­
ern State Power Company, and TOM MAHON, 
*28, in the insurance business (all in St. Paul) 
will sec that Ed joins with his classmates. Ed, a 
bachelor, is active in Red Cross, Community Chest 
and American Cancer Society. 
JOSEPH BARNETT, owner of Insurance Agen­cy, Ogdcnsburg, New York, and father o( daugh­ters, Mar>- Ann, Catherine Rose and Margaret Elizabeth, is likewise undecided on attendance at the June Reunion. 
T. RUSSELL McGRATH,* of First Federal Savings and Loan Association of ProWdencc, Rhode Island, has a son, T. Russell, Jr., at U. of Cali­fomia at Berkeley enrolled as a graduate student. 
JOHN COLANGELO* is still with Havens & Emerson, Consulting Engineers, Brccksvlllc, Ohio. 
EDWIN J. MEDLAND,* General Contractor of Logansport, Indiana, has the nice family of Larr>*, 18; Marilyn, 15; Pat, 13; and Martha, 10. 
FRANCIS J. BUCKLEY,* owner of F. J. Buclt-Icy .Agency-, Canonsburg, Pa., and wife, Betty J., have a son, Francis. Jr., a Senior at N.D., a daugh­ter, Jaync Ann, 18, a Freshman at Penn. State, and a son, David, age 9. 
LOUIS F. NEI2ER, President, Tokhcim Corpo­ration, Fort WavTic, Indiana, was a Spotlight Alumnus in the past issue of the ALUMNUS. He supplements the information given there with "my oldest daughter Mar>- Francccs will be a junior at Dunbarton of Holy Cross, Washington, D.C. this fall, and Louise will be a Freshman at Rosemont College, Rosemont, Pa. John and Charles will be Sophomore and Freshman respectively at St. Bcdc .Academy, Peru. Illinois. The other children arc in grade school in Fort Wayne." He continues, "We unexpectedly met the JOE LENIHANS at Ponte Vcdra, Florida, last March and had a vcr>' enjoyable evening with them. I recently heard from HUB SCHIMBERG from Cedar Rapids. 1 occasionally see JOHN CORGAN and FR.-\NK DOAN in Chicago." Tlic Spotlight research on Lou was faulty. He's a diartcr member of Fort Wayne Serra and was District Governor and Treasurer of Serra International. 
KARL A. KASCHEWSKI,* Vice-President and Treasurer of Future Planning Corporation, New York, resides in Morrislown, New Jersey, with wife, Marjaire, son, John Christopher, 7, and daugh­ters, Mary Gabrictle, 5, and Elizabeth Marie, age 
3. Karl was recently elected to the Board and Vice President of Chartered Shares, Inc., national whole­salers of investment plans. 
KENNETH J. KONOP,* ot A. T, and T. Com­pany, Kansas City, Missouri, and wife, Anne, now have the family of Margaret, 21, Jerry, 20, at Kan­sas U., and June, age 17. Kenneth is President of Bishop Hogan P.T.A. and active in community affairs. 
ANTHONY KOPECKY,* vice-president of Lawn-dale National Bank, Chicago, has a son, Robert, age 20, attending Xax-ier University, Cincinnati, Ohio, where he (like Dad) is a soloist with the Xavier Clef Club. Tony is bus>' with Chamber of Commerce work. Banks Community Fund appeals, and two church chairs. He recently visited with FRED COLLINS, D.AN HILGARTNER, PAUL OT9OLE, BROTHER JUSTIN and "BANK­ERS." This constructive suggcgstion comes from Ton>-: "I would like to get all the former Glee Club members together for a rexd song fcst, in­doors, with a piano a\-atlable, as wc were lacking one in 'M. Perhaps FATHER ANDY MUL­REANY can cook up something." 
HENRY N. ZANG.* of Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company, Kewanee, Illinois, and wife, Elizabeth, saw son, Henr>* E., graduated from N.D. in '58 and will have Richard, a Soph­
44 Notre Dame Alumnus^ November^ 1958 
RICHARD J. BAKER, *36 Tending the store 

A career in retail merchandising has blended with a life of community ser\'icc for Richard J. Baker, Jr., president of W. 
A. Green Company, famous Dallas, Texas, department store. 
Dick Baker's retailing career began at Stern Brothers in New York in 1936 after his receiving a Ph.B. in Foreign Commerce from Notre Dame. He" entered the U. S. Army in 1939, ser\'ing in the Armored Corps, and was separated from service in 1945 as a captain in the First Armored Division. 
Formerly general merchandise manager at the Ernst Kern Company in Detroit, Mich., Dick took over W. A. Green two years ago and has done much to develop the com­pany. He is president of the Dallas De­partment Stores* Association; second vice president of the Texas Retail Dr>' Goods Association; and a director of the Better Business Bureau and the National Retail Merchants Association. 
A native of New York City, Dick is now a true Dallasite, heading the youth move­ment and ser\'ing as a director and budget committee member for the Community Chest and director of the Council of Social Agencies. Civic activities include member­ship on the Dallas Screening Committee and Citizens Council. 
With his wife, Josephine Murphy Baker of New York Cit)', and four children (two boys and two girls, ages 16, 7, 6 and 4), Dick is a member of St. Thomas Aquinas Church and lives at 6263 La Vista, Dallas. 
omore, this fall. Son, Philip, is now in the eighth grade. Henry N. is occupied with Chamber of Commerce, Red Cross and other activities. 
GEORGE C. \VANEK* ot Aurora, Nebraska, is with Stroh Brewing Company. Son, Thomas K., is a Lt- J.G., U.S.N.; George A. is a junior at Crcighton; J. Michael, 6 foot-1 inch, 205 pounds, no blubber, (I trust that Mr. T. Brennan reads the '29 Column) is a sophomore in high school. 
JOHN M. CIANCI* is in the real estate business in New Britain, Connecticut. He has sons, John. 

age 16, and Billy, age 14. (Thank you, John, for 
your clippings on Matthew Mcskill, deceased.) 
EMMETT McCABE,* Director of Advertising. 

Convair, lives with wife, Jane, and daughter, Kath­
leen Ann, age 8 months. Emmett is President of San 
Diego Chapter Arthritis and Rheumatism Founda­
tion and Member Board of Trustees, Mercy Hos­
pital, San Diego. He sees LARRY MOORE, who 
is head of motion pictures for U.S. Na%-y, with 
offices in Washington, P.C. 
JOHN T. BURKE,* Commissioner of Commerce. 

CommonwcaUh of Massacliusetts, recently saw 
GERRY CROWLEY and JOHN F. BURKE. 
PHILIP A. WALSH,* owner of Walsh Equip­

ment Company, Butler, Pa., and vvife, Frances, 
have sons, John Patrick, age 6, and Michael Ed­
ward, age 4. BERNARD GARBER, '28, visited 
Philip as well as relatives in Butler on his return 
from the 1958 Class Reunion. 
JOE E. KEEFE replies from Winter Haven, 

Florida, where he is General Manager of Dundee 
Citrus Growers Association, that sons, Patrick and 
Jerome, arc enrolled at N.D. and that Brian and 
Mary Jo arc in high school. 
BROTHER JACOB EPPLEY, C-S.C, is now at 

St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas, as a mem­
ber of the high school faculty. 
MARCELLUS C. KIRCHNER, of Western Elec­

tric Company, Winston-Salem, N.C., and wife, 
Olivia, now have a 4-ycar-old, son, Mark, Jr. 
EDWARD F. COYLE, dentist, Taunton, Mass., 

has a son, Edward H., age 20, a Junior at N.D. 
Daughter, Josephine, 14, is now in high school. 
ROBERT B. VOGLEWEDE,* a partner in Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Company, has his residence In Birmingham, Michigan. Robert Jr., 19, is at the Jesuit Seminary, Milford, Ohio; Thomas is II, and daughter, Marianne, is age 14. Bob is a member o[ the Budget Committee United Community Ser\'iccs of Detroit, a member of the Federal Taxation Com­mittee, Detroit Chamber of Commerce. He sees WALT MULFUR, LARRY O'CONNOR, and ART ZIMMERMAN. Bob would like to see some real thought and effort put into our next reunion planning. 
JOE LENIHAN,* of Fromm and Sichcl Inc., New York City, and wife, Dolores Friel Lenihan, sister of JOE FRIEL, '29, and JIM FRIEL, '30, arc already well along on Army game reunion plans and promotion. They have two daughters, Sharon, 15, and Nancy, age 7. JOHN W. DOR­GAN,* of Hubbard, Hubbard and Dorgan, Chi­cago, IS also active in this event. 
NORMAN J. McLEOK,* Secretary of the Royal Appliance Manufacturing Co., Cleveland, Ohio, reports a son, Norman P., 26, married and father of three children; Jeanne, 24, is in the Therapy Department, BcIlcMie Hospital, New York; son, John, 20, is a Senior at Western Rcscr\*e; Flo Ann is President of the Junior Class at Georgetown School of Nursing; Sue, 18. is a Freshman at New­ton College (Mass.); William, 16, is a Junior at Gilmour Academy. Norman is past president of the Mens Club of Gilmour Academy and active in St. Vincent de Paul and St. Francis Assisi organiza­tions. He had the privilege of attending Charles Rohr's 50th birthday party along with ART CAREY, PAT C/VNNY, and about 40 more Notre Dame men. 
WILLIAM CRONIN, of Frigidairc Sales Cor­poration, Oakland, Calif., has the fine family of Jenifer, age 14; Peter, age 12; Timothy, age 7; and Janet, age 1J4. He is identified with United Cru­sade, Rotary Club, Gencrul Motors Field Relations. Director of St. Vincent's Day Nursery. He saw JOE NASH and JOE SCALES in Chicago recently in a bctween-planes stopover. 
HAROLD A, BL/\IR,* of the Blair Company-Church Goods, Fresno, California, is a grand­father six times, five times within 17 months. Daughter Barbara, age 26, has three children; Arlene, age 24, also has three children; Jack, 22, was graduated from N.D. in June. Harold saw HANK BURNS and EARL (RED) LE.\CH on the campus at the '58 Commencement. He saw SHORTY NOWERY and MICKY McMAHON 'ii New Orleans in early June and BILL BUTLER in Dallas on the same trip. 
Your secretary again thanks those who contrib­uted to the contents of this column. Wc trust that your classmates will match your cooperation in their opportunity to submit material for the next issue of the ALUMNUS. 
HUGH McMANIGAL wrote concerning GEORGE BRAUTIGAM: "I do not know If I am the first to send you the sorrowful news, but I have been unable to get George out of my mind. Tlie enclosed newspaper articles will tell you, more eloquently than is my ability, what kind of man our George was. I wvLi probably as close to him as any of our classmates la recent years. At N.D. t o gclhcr tor the '54 reunion, visiting the Grotto and many memories. He also handled some IcgiU work for me and we had many contacts locally. I rtcom­mcndcd him for a 'Spotlight Alumnus.' Now that he is gone, it would be more than fitting." 
Hugh adds: "Sorry to hear of FRANCIS GUSH­ING. I worked for a number of years for the company that his dad headed and in that way kept in touch with him. 
"Hazel and I are the proud grandparents of our ninth. Docs that constitute any record in our group? I retired about a year ago intending to spend most of my time at my place in the Keys (the world's best fishing). First a non-permanent injury to my leg kept me from tt and I later got the 'bug* to enter politics. Am currently running for County Commissioner." 
JOHN GIANGI wrote: "I ofTer MATTHEW C. MESKILL as a Spotlight '29er. Matt .. . has always been a Ioy:d and ardent alumnus. . . . For 30 years Matt >vas an active member of the Con­necticut Valley Notre Dame Alumni, holding nu­merous offices, and greatly assisted in advancing the name of Notre Dame in Catholic Action, ciWl­\y, politically, economicaUyt spiritually. His death leaves a void, ai he truly exemplified the N.D. man. .. . I believe his inclusion as a Spotlighted '29er would be most fitting and deserved." 
(Ed. Note: These nominations are much appre­ciated and richly deserved. George Brautigam dis­played great integrity even in his most coloful and controversial actions as Dade County State Attorney, so widely publicized by the wire services. Matthew Metkill was a universally respected Re­publican leader in a Democratic community and known to all as a huiaanitarian. But there is no precedent for a posthumous "Spotlight."- We re­gret not having recognized these men at the height of their achievement.—J.L.) 
193 0 ^^^^^^ Plunkett 
0*ShaugImessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
TIM TOOMEY reported on alumni he sees in the eastern belt. Wish we could draw in some news items from representatives in the South, Far West and Midwest. Tim writes: 
"We arc just finishing up our vacation here in the 'ole home town* of Greenfield, Massachusetts, before pushing off for our present headquarters in Boston. 
"We were prompted to get this epistle to you early when we realized we might have missed the deadline date for the last issue of ALUMNUS. 
"We wrote to a few of the lads at the time of 
DANNY SULLIVAN'S death m April and we were 
mighty pleased when his * widow, Sally, reported 
to us she received assurance of prayers from 
many of genial Danny's friends. ARCHBISHOP 
O'HARA paid a touching tribute to Dan's many 
fine qualities in a note to us. LARRY MULLINS, 
a\R L BRENNAN, DICK SULLIVAN, PAT CON­
WAY. REV. RICHARD GRIMM, GEORGE 
WINKLER, REV. JIM RIZER, BUD ROSE­
WARREN, DAN and JACK CANNON were some 
ol those who also sent'notes to us. DON SULLI­
VAN, Dan*s roommate at the University; JIM 
SKAHAN, a close friend during days since 
Boston residence; JOHN- V. MORAN, and yours 
truly, represented the class at the* funeral. 
"The news of the death of J. E. McCARTHY, 
Dean Emeritus of the College of Commerce, left us 
with a low feeling. He was especially gracious to 
us during our undergraduate days, and he was 
always willing to counsel and assist students who 
hailed from his native Western Massachusetts. 
**The 'Dean* or 'Big Mac,' as he was afTection­
atcly known, received the award for the outstand­
ing member of the University on our own gradua­
tion day. Wc always considered htm to be very 
close to our entire class. Pray for Dan and the 
Dean as well as all our deceased friends. 
"It might be a little early but the Cannon 
boys sounded ofT a high note by telling us to get 
ready lor the 30lh reunion in 1960, and they de­
scribed the occasion as a gathering for a icw 
'belly laughs.* 
"Wc know you and the local members of our 
class would appreciate suggestions at this ume^ so 
wc hope some ol the gHted members will come 
through with an idea or two. 
"We took a short trip on our recent vacation and 
had a fine visit with FATHER JIM RIZER now 
stationed at St. Mary's, Alexandria, Virginia. 
Visitors in the vicinity of Washington, D.C., will 
find him ready to welcome them. 

Participating in the pTCsentation of a beautiful rcliqtuuy from the Rome Club to the Lourdes Confraternity were (left to right) Jerry Ashley, '33, president of the alumni club in the Eternal City; his son, Tom Ashley; Rev. Philip Schaerf, CJS.C, Confraternity director; and Paul Ashley, another son. A relic of St. Bemadette will be placed in the reliquary which in turn ^vill be placed on the altar of Our Lady of Lourdes in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus. 
•••••••iitiiliiinitiii)iiM<mr •iitiiiMttMitniiniiiifiiiiiiiiinitiiiinj 
"Wc had a most enjoyable stay over at Bridge-gate Farm, Newtou-n, Pennsylvania, the site of the racing farm of DR. JOHN D. PREECE whose medical offices are in nearby Trenton, New Jersey. JOHNNY BURNS, '31, a fellow contestant with Dr. John in the first Golden Gloves boxing tour­nament in Chicago, and BILL KELLY, '28, were also guests at the farm the weekend we visited there. 
"CARL BRENNAN is with the W. T. Grant stores in Houston, Texas, and informed us he has a son studying for the priesthood. 
'T . (for Timothy) LARRY CRONIN has joined the staff of the Lummus Corp. and succeeds JOHN O'DONNELL who has been promoted in an execu­tive capacity in the same organization. 
"LOU BUCKLEY, '28, the Dean of Class Cor­respondents, visited our home town recently, and we also met DAN O'NEILL, '26, in our local 
•railway station on his way to lecture at a summer school session in nearby Williams College. .Ml travelers in Western Mass. are urged to hunt up the Toomeys of Greenfield. 
"Wc welcome to Boston ED CONROY, who has taken over the exciting assignment of City ^fanager of Medford, Mass., w*hich community borders the Hub. 
"Wc had an interesting chat with ED KRAUSE, '34, Graduate Manager of Athletics, and his 'bride' when they visited the Beantown on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. JACK SAUNDERS, '31, presented ART McMANMON, '31, with the Bos­ton Notre Dame Man of the Year Award at the banquet at which Ed was the principal speaker. 
"Wc talked to or heard from the following directly or through mutual friends: FRANK LEAHY, '31; JOE ABBOTT; PAT HASTINGS; JOHN T. BURKE, '29, Mass. Commissioner of Commerce; TIM O'ROURKE; TOM BRADLEY; JACK CASSIDY; JOE FRIEL, '29; and BERNIE CONROY. 
"JOHN V. MORAN visited Columbus, Ohio, in his capacity as member of City ol Boston Executive Council and brought back East good tidings and gifts from *Flowcr Cart,' one business enterprise of thu Columbus Cannons. 
" *Hooley' Smith guided Mt. Michel's Prep to the Catholic Baseball Championship in New York City. Howard is one of the leading preparatory school atheltic directors in the country and he recently obser\'ed 20 years as coach at the famed Christian Brothers' School. 
*'^Vhat is the pitch with you or did your press agent send the wrong data , to Faculty Profiles? They listed you as unmarried and you were very much hitched when I last saw you. Please set the boys straight on that one. 
"If all is well, I hope to see you for the Army Game; and I may have to apply for employment as I do not have a ticket. 
'*Keep the faith!" 
From the Alumni OfiSce: TOM HOPKINS, sports editor of the Honolulu Star-Bulletin, has been sending in bulletins about the alumni employed (or more frequently, sta­tioned) in the Hawaiian Islzuids. WARREN FOGEL and famUy (wife- Kay and daughters Regina and Bemadette) stopped at the campus while driving to California, showing-a license plate that Warren considers an omen that "this is our year." His number is NI>-58. He saw FATHER LOU THORNTON and recalls: "The school looked beautiful* and both girls have elected to go to St. Mary's." In June, reports J. L. HARRINGTON, '26j TOMMY KENNEALLY gave a housc^varming party at his new home in'^Iiddlebush, X.J. "Tom­my is doing very well in the insurance business,'' Joe reported, "and. his charming home reflects it. Tommy's son (Junior, of course) plays quarter­back for New Bnins%vick High School and is on the track team (hurdles and distance) as well. 
Daughter Joyce is teaching. . . . .Kenneally is quite a fisherman', gets his limit or dose to it.'* CHUCK ROHR had a birthday in July hcTl never forget if (and here's hoping) he lives an­other fifty years. Tooling do\t'n' the Turnpike in a' sports car borrowed from his offspring, he arrived at the Morris Inn just in time to miss the party and birthday cake prepared for him and con­sumed by his buddies on the AIumni_ Board. .Chuck's proudest moment must have come when he discovered that- employees of his famed Cleve­land eatery had donated $50 to the Notre Dame Foundation for the Building Fund in honor of the 
anni%*ersaryi 

Notre Dame Alumnus^ November, 1958 43 
James T. Doyle 

1931 
902 Oakton St 
£\*anston, Illinois 
It lias been a pleasant summer and not quite 

as devoid of news as I thought it might be. Thanks 
to telephone calls and occasional letters I have 
accumulated some items for our column. I had a 
pleasant surprise uith an interesting letter from 
BILL BERXIXG which I am sure will awaken 
campus memories among many of you. 
"We had such a pleasant surprise yesterday, 

thought I'd write you about it. E/\RL (TEX) 
BRIEGEK of Pituburgh called me from Taylor, 
Toas, saying he and two of his fine children would 
be here for a Mexican supper at the *E1 Toro.' 
We had not seen Tex since he stopped for a visit 
with us in Beevillc five years ago as he and wife 
and his brother and wife were returning from 
Mexico City- Tex arrived with his charming 
daughter, Gretclien, and son, Chuck, plus his Dad, 
Mr. Ilrieger of Taylor, who is 80 years young 
and they all xvill spend Dad's day together in 
Taylor. Now to get back to the story, several 
car-loads of MORE Briegers arrived in due time 
including Tcx's cliarming sister, Lillie May, his 
brother Gus and wife, tlieir children, several fam­
ily friends. It was a real evening; after eating 
Mrxi-::an food we returned to the house; my wife 
Glad'.'s got our old photo book and relived scv­
fral pleasant years at Notre Dame, a trip to New 
York with ART BERG/VN for an Easter vacation, 
LOUIS nSENCIK with us. Louis is living in 
Taylor, and called me several months ago when 
he v.as in Austin on business. Our son, Bill Jr., 
was with us also last night; he had two weekend guests from St. Mary's University of San Antonio (Bill Jr. attended St. Mary's his first two years). 
"Gladys and I moved to Austin from Beeville last July. I am employed with the Texas Railroad Commission, Oil and Gas Division. We like it so well, guess we will settle here. Bill, Jr., is a senior in Texas University and {if all goes well) will rcrceive his degree from the BBA school here in Industrial Management next January*. 
"I found HARRY KENNEDY'S, Colombia, 
S. A., address in the May-June issue of the ALUM­NUS, and wrote Harry last week for some news on him and his. Had nice letter from ART BERGAN at Christinas time from Miami; their son Bill is in the Air Force in San Antonio, so we arc looking for a visit from them some time this summer or fall. TOM MONAHAN, several years ago, flew down to Beeville during broom-corn sea­son, Tom stopped coming during the severe 
drouth. I called BERT MAHONY here the night 
after the Oklahoma game; we saw it on TV; Bert 
sponsored a re-broadcast on radio on local radio 
station that Mutual carried same lime as TV. 
Bert was in Oklahoma. Sure hope Notre Dame 
will play Texas U. here again in a few years. 
"Jim, hope you can make out this so-called 

letter. When you are in Texas please come to see 
us; the fishing is fine on the lakes around and 
above Austin." 
Tiianks, Bill, it was a treat to hear from you and I hope you will make a note on your calendar to do it again next year. While strolling through Old Orchard Shopping Plaza, I saw EDDIE AG­NEW in the John P. Dalciden Company religious goods store. He was standing at the greeting card rack and I thought he was a customer. Ed informed me that he had left the City Hall to become man­ager of their new store. So anytime Chicago Land 'SIcrs are in need of religious gifts and articles, be sure to remember Ed as he will be most happy to accommodate you. GIL SEAMAN and his wife, Rita, were attending the Serra Convention at St. Mar%* of the Lake Seminary, Mundelein, Illinois, when he ran into LEO KLETZLY who was at­tending'with the Columbus, Ohio, Serra Club. Leo is General Traffic Manager for Suburban Motor Freight, Inc. While watching television July 29th, who should appear as a contestant on "To Tell the Truth" but JOE S.AVOLDI. I had no trouble picking him, nor did Polly Bcrgan \vho recognized him by his cauliflower ears. Joe is now with the Federal Life Insurance Co., Arnold Gellman In­surance Agency* in South Bend. I met BILL KEAR­NEY, '28, in the loop this summer and he brought me up to date on his brother Jim. While we were talking TERRY DILLON stopped on his way to :he Local Loan office upstairs. Which brings up his spending a week with SPIKE SULLIVAN in Tulsa according to a note from him. "Speaking of Terry Dillon, whom I did not realize, you know, we just yesterday put him and a portion of his excellent family on a plane for Chicago after fighting the U.S. Open Golf Tournament together all last week. For class news, I am able at this point only to ofTer an item concerning TOM MON­
AHAN who was likewise here for a bit of the golf tournament. Last month Tom and I collab­orated on an especially pleasant evening with AL GRISANTI and Mrs. Grisanti during the weekend of the spring football game on the his­toric campus at South Bend. Naturally vve also enjoyed the cultivated company of ED MURRAY, whose second son has just been tagged for An­napolis." Tiianks, Spike, I shall be looking for a full and complete report on the x'arious - N.D. 
games you will be attending this fall, f had a short note from DONALD O'TOOLE telling of hanng dinner with DEON SUTTON at the Union League Ciub. Dcon is Export Manager for a Mem­phis, Tcnn., firm dealing in biologicals and travel*! all over the world representing his firm. Don has been quite active in activities to develop port facilities in the Calumet Region. He is president of the Calumet Region Industrial Congress and recently delivered an address to the Illinois-Indiana Bi-State Development and Study Commis­sion. The Notre Dame Club of Chicago held its annual golf outing at Elmhurst Country' Club August 4th. This turned out to be the most suc­cessful golf party in the history* of the club. Among the '31 men present were TO.M COUGHL/\N, JIM DOYLE, PAUL DUNaVN, BILL LE.\HY, LEO GARLAND, BERT METZGER, AL STEPAN and JACK SCHMITT. Paul Duncan, Jack Schmilt and AI Stepan's son were prize winners. At serv­ices for FRANK HOLLAND'S mother who passed away this summer, I met the father of ART WAL­Lr\CE who told me Art is located in Detroit, Michigan, and is a manager for Sears, Roebuck & Co. Tlie sympathy of the class is extended to Frank in the loss of his mother. GEORGE COS­TELLO telephoned to mention having received a letter from HARRY KENNEDY who recently re­ceived a promotion and has been transferred to another location. George saw LOUIS GODOY at Chicago's Midway Airport upon his return from Europe. Louis has a son at Culver Military* Acad­emy, Culver, Indiana. Another world traveller, TOM ASHE, sent a post card from Caracas, Vene­zuela. It is about time for Tom to come up with a letter for the column. It was a shock to learn of the death of our friend and teacher, Dean 
JAMES E. MCCARTHY, who passed away this summer. I will send a letter extending the sym­pathy of the class to his widow, together with a Mass Card. ROY BAILLIE has moved from Sac­ramento, California, and is now located at 3041 Portola Drivc^ Arcadia, California. FR/VNK BUTORt\C has returned to Waukegan, Illinois, from fronton, Minnesota. LEO GARL.-VND is now Assistant Western Division Sales Manager of the Walworth Company. Now that summer vacations arc over, I am expecting to receive a few bundles of letters during the next few months from those of you who cnjov reading the goings-on in the Class of 1931. Do like BILL BERNING and drop your secretary a letter soon. 
From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to WILLIAM CHAWGO, named business manager of the Aurora, III., Beacon-News, 
Here ir the family (taken a few years ago) that Joe Burton, *34, will leave for the week end of his class' Silver Jubilee Reunion next June. With Joe and wife Ann are (left to right) Joseph Francis, James Harvey, William Mark, Margaret Mary, Joanne Margaret, John \Villiam and Marie Irene. 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
and E. F. GORE, winner of membership in the in­
surance underwriters' Million Dollar Round Table 
for the sixth consecutive year. 
Omitted in last issue's "Spotlight" on BERT 
METGER was the fact that a second son had been 
born to Bert, jr., namely Mark. 
193 2 J^^^ ^- Collins 
3336 Kcnmore Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 
Commaoder BOB LEE returned to Jacksonville, Florida, after several years in the Far East, and is attached to the Naval Air Technical Training Cen­ter. His home address is 4205 Oristano Road, Jacksonville 10. 
Bob had been Legal Officer of the Seventh Fleet operating near Formosa. His wife and daughters have been in Japan for the past year, and they spent most of their time travelling through the area. 
Bob further wrote: "My duty on the Seventh Fleet Staff was the most exciting assignment I have had so far. I believe the highlight came last Christ­mas when I served as military- aide to Cardinal Spellman who was aboard our ship for two days." 
JOHN KIENER tells me that his son, Johnny, is a senior in the high school section at Borromeo Seminary in Wckliffe, Ohio, this year. 
RAY GEIGER was in Cleveland recently to speak at a luncheon. He is editor and publisher of the Farmers* Almanac and, as usual, his talk contained gems of wisdom found in it. He moved the company to Lewiston, Maine, a few years ago. 

TED HALPIN writes from Milwaukee that his son, Gary, is entering the pre-mcd school of Crcighton University in Omaha this fall. Ted said they were recently visited by RAY PFEIFFER and his family from Louisnile, and they all got togeth­er with JOHN LITCHER and his family for a 
From the Alumni Office; Congratulations to SAL BONTEMPO, named to New Jersey Governor Robert Meyner's cabinet in August as commissioner of conservation and eco­nomic development. 
I 033 Joseph A. McCabc 
• y^ a 2215 Lincohi Evanston, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: CHARLIE CONLEY sent a card from the Get-t>'sburg, Pa., battlefield with a picture of a familiar figure in weathered bronze, the FATHER CORBY Monument. The legend tells a familiar story: "The Irish Brigade, composed mostly of New Yorkers, was Ordered into battle, .but prior to their en­trance into the fight. Father Corby asked permis­sion to talk with the men of^the brigade for a few-minutes. He delivered a momentous talk before pronouncing an absolution for all his men. Imme­diately thereafter they were commanded into battle and displayed remarkable service and fortitude." Charlie wrote: "We were quite thrilled to find the duplicate of the statue in front of Corby Hall on the battlefield." ARTHUR DUTT has just been named treasurer of the First Akron Corporation, a mortgage bank­ing firm of Akron, Ohio. 
JUNE I2-I3I4 ^^ 
MBI^ 
T. Edward Carey 18843 Inglewood Ave. Rocky River 16, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: Not heard from in a long time, JOSEPH R. BURTON lives at 615 9th Ave., Clinton, Iowa, and 
Arthur L. Conrad, '35, left, receives the Chicago Civitan Club*s "Citizen of the Year'* award at the annual banquet of the organization. The award is presented by C. F. Reem, former vice president of Civitan International, a service organization whose motto is "Builders of Good Citizenship." Art was honored for his work with Chicago's Driver Improvement School, which he founded. 
15 a designer of appliance controls for General Electric in Morrison, III. He was married to Ann ^Vambeke in the Log Chapel in 1938 by REV. FRANCIS BURTON, C.S.C., '33, now in Pakistan, and they now have seven children: Joseph, Jr., 19; Joanne, 18; Marie, 17; John,- 16; James, 13; Mar­garet, 12; and William, 9. Joe is presently warden of Knights of Columbus Council 707 in Clinton, loAva. 
1 935 FrankI>Ti C. Hochreiter ^^ 702 Scarlett Dr. Towson 4, Maryland 
Well gang, we missed you the last time to press and from all that we have for you this time we could have gone without a column again. Tliree visitors and some address changes make it possible to ^vrite a few paragraphs. 
Back in the early summer we were pleasantly surprised by a telephone call *'out of the past" — "DUKE" WALTERS was calling. The "Duke" had business with a local corporation and called us when a couple hours turned up before train time. Amid a pouring rain we were able to meet at the hotel and spend an hour in the station cock­tail lounge. 
We did a lot ol reminiscing and comparing of notes on our families. "Duke" doesn't look any different today than he did on campus—and that's a real compliment. We continue to be shocked at how our '35 crowd has aged over the years. When we see a '35er xvho ' looks particularly grey, we rush to the mirror to see ourself **as others see us." "Duke" tried to catch us on a return vbit but we could not meet him. It was fun, and we hope he will try again when he's in the East. 
A little later in the summer, on July 23 to be exact, DAN YOUNGERMAN called. He was in town to see the local boys at Bendix. We picked him up^the next evening for cocktails, dinner and cordials afler^vard. It gave us a chance to check over the financial status of the class, which, inci­dentally, COULD BE IMPROVED. We had a Board meeting of our community association, and drove Dan to the county seat for a cab to town. (Don't know how your evening was, Dan, but we made a frw speeches at the meeting.) 

After an absence of a year, we saw J. C. DUD­LEY again this summer during his usual two-week stint at Fort Meade. CltfT, as you will, all remem­ber, is the Commanding Colonel of the Kentucky Military Government Company. We were able to snare him and two of his stafT officers for an e\'e­ning in tne patio in Campus Hills. Last summer he was at Meade but all tied up in army problems and could not get away. At least we know that he had not died or gotten himself married — two of the possibilities we told you about months ago when we had not heard from him. 
And now a financial report as of July 1, 1958: There have been 170 contributors to our class treasury who sent in checks totaling 5I,562oO. The breakdown is rather interesting. One man sent in 561; 1 — §35; 1 — $30; 2 — $25; 5 — $20; 4 — $15; 4 — $12; 101 — $10; 1 — $7; 9 — $6; 4 — $5; 1 — $4.50; 6 — $4; 29 — $2; and 1 — $1. 
At the rate of $2.00 per man per year for five years, making a total of $10 for each '35er, our statistics are not too encouraging. There are zdraut 500 men in the '35 class as of now. The 170 con­tributors represent 35% of the class. But 41 of the 170 are in arrears on their dues since we should have at least $6 chalked up for each man. This is the end of the 3rd year. 
The large contributions over $10 make us look pretty good, as do the 101 $10 amounts which com­plete the record for those men. We hope the other 41 contributors will get their remaining dues in as soon as possible. 
BUT HOW ABOUT THE 65% who have never sent in their dues? We know, or at least we hope, that for most of you it has been an oversight. You meant to send in your dues but you forgot. THIS IS THE TIME TO DO IT. MAKE OUT A CHECK as soon as you read this column and for­ward it to DANIEL YOUNGERMAN, 1516 East Cedar Street, South Bend 17, Indiana. 
This is the beginning of the' final push. Our TWENTY-FIFTH REUNION is less than two years away. 
Very shortly we will be sending you a question­naire, similar to the one we sent out before our twentieth. Look for it before Christmas. Please 
NotTe Dame Alumnus^ Novembery 1958 47 
complete it and return tt immediately so we can start our planning. 
We send condolences ID CHARLIE MAHER on the death oF his father, in the middle of the sum­mer. Sorry to hear of jt, Charlie. Be sure that you have our prayers. 
ED K1L.MURRAY sent us a card regarding a change in hit, business address. Ed is now practicing law at 215 Sixth Street in Radnc, Wisconsin. 
.•\nd now to address changes: Here are, the new ones on the following men: JAMES MAROHN, 36 WoodclifTc Road, St. Louis 24, Missouri; FRANK KOPPELBERGER, 26 Waugoo Ave., Oshkosh, Wisconsin; WILBUR BERNARD, Itasca, Illinois; JAMES SULLIV.AN, 1120 Dobson Street, E\-ansion, Illinois; WILLUM STEIS, P. O. Box 555, WJER, Dover, Ohio; LEWIS CREGO, 3 Gancing Dr., Os-sining New York; WILLIAM BERNBROCK, 1630 Fifth Ave., Moline, Illinois; THOMAS FLYNN, 
•JSg Merchant Street, Room 201, Honolulu 13, Hau-aii; ROBERT FORBES, R.F.D. 1, Box 318. Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico; ARMAND KELLOGG, 
P.O. Box 945, Roct Springs, Wyoming; LOUIS FAUTSCH, 815-816 Roehek Bldg., Dubuque, lou-a; WILLIA.M COEX, P.O. Box 157, Afton, Iowa; AL­FRED AG.\MY, 112 Water St., Wilmington, Illi­nois; DR. WILLIAM HELME, 926 East McDowell Rd., PhocnLx, Arizona; DR. ROBERT MAHER, East 710 12th .\vc., Spokane 3, Washington; RICH­ARD BALLIET, 325 West Prospect Ave., Appleton, Wisconsin; GEORGE ISSELAMANN, 16 Abbington Terrace, Glen Rock, New Jersey; ROBERT KEN­LINE, 222 Fischer Bldg., Dubuque, Iowa; VELMAR KLAIBER, 421 North Illinois St., Indianapolis, In­diana; JOHN LOCHER, Box 208, Cedar Rapids, Iowa; DR. JAMES MacDONALD, May\-iew State Hospital, May\-iew, Penns>'lvania; JOSEPH NAN­OVIC, 235 Lafayette Ave., Palmcrton, Pennsyl­vania; JOHN MALLOY, 8615 South A\'aIon, Chi­cago 19, Illinois; JOHN TO.MKOWID, 86 Jeffer­son, Yonkers 5, New York; JOHN EDWARDS, 16 Vanderburg Ave., Larchmont, New York; RAY­
MOND VANDERHEYDEN, 21038 South Bend Circle, Rocky River, Ohio; THO.MAS MASTER­SON, Associated Press, 79 Rue Rachid Nakhlcd, 
P.O. Box 3780, Beirut, Lebanon; ROCCO SCHI­RALLI, 4785 Broadway, Gar>-, Indiana; FRANK MAXWELL, 528 West .Angela Blvd.,. South Bend 17, Indiana; ROBERT KLAIBER, 151 Washington Terrace, Lemoyne, Pennsylvania; THOMAS GAL­LAGHER, 750 Third Avenue, c/o .Asch, New York 17, New York; PHILIP ARNHEITER, 43 South McClelland St., Manasquan, New Jersey; JOHN MOUROS, 58412 South -Main St., Mishawaka, In­diana; REV. JOHN MURPHY, C.S.C., Family Theatre, 7201 Sunset Blvd., Holh-wood, California; JOHN MANNION, American Embassy, APO 676, New York, New York; WILLIAM CRONIN, Nau­gatuck Chemical Div., U.S. Rubber Company, Naugatuck, Connecticut; EDWARD LONEGAN, 3714 .Avenue "P." Brooklyn, New York; ARTHUR 0*NEIL, 2751 North Clyboum Ave., Chicago 14, Illinois; EDWARD CULLEN, 585 Centre St., New­ton 58, .Massaclmsetts; FREDERIC BROOKMEY­ER, 2054 East 69th St., Apt. 2N, Chicago 49, Illinois; and EDMOND POUXR, Gruman Ave., Norwich, Connecticut. 
And, has anyone seen or heard from JOHN LEH.AN who was last reported with the USN StafT Com Ser. Pacific at FPO San Francisco, California. John's mail is being returned. 
TTiere you have it gang. How about some mail so we can get back to writing a column for you agzin? We can't do a thing without your help. 
From the Alumni Office: 
A commendation medal for meritorious ser\-ice in religious guidance of Air Force personnel was pre­sented to Chaplain (Maj.) REV, THOMAS E. HEWITT, C.S.C., presently serx'ing as deputy director of the USAF Chaplain-Legal Course at Lackland AFB, Texas. He was cited for his duties as division chaplain with the Strategic Air Com­mand, Little Rock AFB, Arkansas. 
TOM HILS of the New Haven Register, New Haven Club Man of the Year, had previously re­ceived a national citation for t>pography with an Alabama paper and had been listed in Riple>''s "Believe It or Not" for playing a perfect tennis set (not losing a point) in 1944. "This record," sa>-s Tom, "has been equalled." 
JAMES P. COLLERAN, JR., is a new member of the accounting firm of Lybrand, Ross Bros. & lfoatgomcr>" in Cleveland. 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
R. PARKER SULLIVAN, '37 Dial S for Success 

R. Parker Sullivan has been made Vice Presidentj Marketing and Merchandising, for General Telephone System, one of the world's foremost communication systems. His headquarters are now at the company's main ofBce in New York City. 
Parker was bom in Frankfurt, Kentucky, and graduated from high school in Lexing­ton. After receiving his degree at Notre Dame, he joined the Plant Department of the Lexington Telephone Company, pres­ently General Telephone Company of Ken­tucky. In 1941 he became Toll Line and Traffic Engineer for General Telephone Company of Wisconsin, in Madison. A year later he was transferred to Lafayette, Indi­ana, and promoted to Traffic Superintendent of the company now known as General Tele­phone Company of Indiana. 
From 1945 to 1950 Parker was Traffic Superintendent for General Telephone Com­pany of Kentucky and in 1950 became Plant Superintendent of the Kentucky com­pany. In March, 1951, he became General Traffic Superintendent at General Telephone Company of the Southwest in Dallas, and on October 15, 1953, he was promoted to Operating Vice President with headquarters in San Angelo. In this position he headed the Plant, Traffic, Commercial and Engi­neering departments. On April 1, 1956, Parker became President of General Tele­phone Company of Upstate New York, lo­cated at Johnstown. 
While in Johnstown he served as Director and Vice President of the Johnstown Cham­ber of Commerce and was a member of the Rotary Club. He served as ta director of the Fulton Count)* National Bank and^Trust Company in Glovcrsville, on the Board of the Fulton Count)' Development Corpora­tion and as a director of the New York State Telephone" Association. 
Parker was married in 1944. He and his wfe, lia, have an eight year old daughter, Janie. They live at 5 Wakeman Place, Larchmont, New York. 
1 936 Robert F. Ervin 1329 Kensington Rd. Grosse Pointe Park, Mich. 
I had hoped that by this time we would have received many letters giving us your ideas about our suggestions for increasing class interest and communciations. However, BOB BURKE, of Louis­ville, Kentucky, was the only one of our some 500 members who expressed any opinion or communi­cated with me in any way about the problem. His card reads as follows: 
"What became of the Revolution? Which way did it go? When ACHILLES MOORMAN was swept from oflicc unfairly in a wave of indignation about no column for *36, we were assured by the rebels that we would crowd all other classes out of the Book. The Revolutionary fer\-or simmer out? 
"I was in correspondence xvith BILL BOWES ^bout a business matter and talked with him on .'jng distance in Chicago. He is well and prosperous and happy — you could use thati" 
Your secretary still hopes that in some way we can get more news for our column and knit our :lass more closely together but as of now I am out of ideas. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Listed in the new edition of "Who's Who in America," xvhich names about 50,000 prominent Americans, is the name of RICHARD W. SNOOKS of St. Joseph, Mo. Dick is president and treasurer of Citizens Loan and Savings Co. According to A. 
N. Marquis Co., publishers of the weighty bio­graphical volume, about three of every 10,000 Americans arc listed in "Who's Who." 
Of ALFRED H. ROHOL, JR., named Penn Mutual's "Man of the Year" in W. A. Alexander & Co., Chicago, JOHN McSHANE, '34, said: "This just says about half of how good Al really is. He has brought to the insurance field all the ideals of Notre Dame and made them come to life." 
1 937 Joseph P. Quinn 
P. O. Box 275, Lake Lenapc Andover, N. J. 

The average is still holding up on news items being returned to your Secretary', and I am proud to report that we have some new names (reporting purposes only) for our column. 
The McNally Company in the person of one illustrious JOE McNALLY appears in our column after a long absence. Joe is in the Direct Mailing business and knows what percentages mean on an­swering letters. He hails from Centerport, L.I., along with GEORGE PAL.MER and HAROLD HEINEMAN, where they tr>- to run the Catholic Guild in their town. He is now Exalted Ruler of the Huntington BPOE (finally ran for an office in­stead of working behind the scenes) and met TOM CASSIDY at one of their outings at Smithtown. Family score is three girU and two boys with the new addition on record by now. Brother BILL Mc­NALLY operates his own Associated firm which raises funds for Catholic Schools and Churches. We learned all about this fund raising at the 20lh reunion. GERRY BESANCENEY writes from New­ark, O., bearing Ohio license plate No. "ND *37," that for the last seven years he has been associated with Amercian Aviation Inc. at Columbus in the Government Finished Aircraft Equipment Division, as Material Analyst and concerns himself with the procuring of the items for' these aircraft that the government furnishes which at the present is the T2J Navy Jet Trainer. Gcrr>' took the Mrs. and his son to New York City for a \*acation and is looking for\%*ard to not letting business interfere with the 25th reunion. Law enforcement is repre­sented by LARRY DANBOM, reporting from the Nation's Capitol, where he has been stationed since 1952. He runs into JOE KUHARICH, D.\N SULLIVAN, CLEM McGOWAN and NORDY HOFFMAN regularly. Tlie man in best condition he reports is DON HANNING, who is still in shape for the Bengal Bouts. Larry, he will need to be in shape as Don is a very poor correspondent (Ed. note). Larry and family will be out for the Army game. BILL SHARPE is in Kansas City with the International Paper Container Division. Has lived there for nine years after having spent the early days in New Jersey. Bill has three in the family with his son just completing a summer camp \-acation with ALEX WILSON, N.D. Track Coach. Bill sees GRAHAM OWENS, TOM HIGGINS and AL SCHWARTZ. His family has been closely as­
sociated with DR. JI.M DOWNEY who delivered their last giri. HARRY KOEHLER of the O'Brien Paint Corp. in So. Bend reports on the local scene that JOHN CACKLEY is the Pres. of the St. Joe Valley Club and doing an excellent job 
with JERRY CLAEYS scr\ing as one of his com­
mittee chairmen. Harr>', who had a big hand in 
our reunion work, reports HARRY POOLIN with 
the Studc Co., and TOM LUCKEY with the 
Nilcs Paint Co. The South Bend Tribune is still 

being represented by our MILT BOCK. Another 
new rcportin- name Is LOUIE VETTEL, who is 
in business in Ashtabula, Ohio, having received a 
law degree, and also operates a large grocery mar­
ket in the home town supplying the lake freighters. 
After reading a national picture publication, I 
regret to report that BILL TUNNY hails from 

Terrc Haute, Ind., as Sales Manager for Colum­
bian Enameling & Stamping Co., and, of course, 
he b looking for tickets to a certain game. AL 

SCHWARTZ reports from Sallna that he ran across 
an associate of "PABLO" SHEEDY who stated 
that the super salesman of Wildroot was still on 

the ball and planning to give each classmate two 
bottles at the 25th. BOBBY SIEGFRIED stopped 
at Salina after checking a job at Fort Riley. Bobby 
made national news by handling the ofHcial scoring 
at Southern Hills C.C. for the National Open. I 
noticed his picture in the program that the na­
tional association furnished to the golf clubs. Bobby 
further reports seeing the oil boys JOE O'NEILL 
(now in South America) and JOHN HEARN. Our 
world traveler and reporter JIM BACON missed 
the last column but states that he had a visit in 

Hollywood from JACK TANGNEY (Brooks • 
Brothers Adv.) and they made the rounds of thi­
studios. Jim was in a hurry as he was leaving our 
shores for Monaco for a visit with Princess Grace 
at one of her outings (Honest). From Gadsden. 
Ala., co:nes a fine letter from JACK ULLMANN, 
plant manager for Cleaners Hanger Co. who has 
been a rebel now for a year and a half. This com­
pany has other plants and the President of the 
operation is HANK RUEN^ who resides in the 
Detroit area. When Jack hits Memphis, Tenn., he 
sees BILL WHITMAN, who is manager of the 
Group and Pension Depts. of the Aetna Life Ins. 
Co. Bill, with a family of six, has the oldest 
boy studying for the priesthood. Also In Memphis, 
ED MONTEDONICO runs the family real estate 
business and can shoot in the lower figures and take 
the measure of HARRY BALDWIN on the golf 
course. Jack further states that his old roomie, 
STEVEN FINAN, now hails from Anaheim, Calif., 
and Is associated with J. W. Marsh Co., who are 
factory representatives for electronic firms. Steve 
has two gals and is very active in the L.A. Club. 
Finally, while in Detroit Jack saw BOB HART, 
GORE HASTINGS and LEE MOORMAN. Many 
thanks for all the news, Jack. 
Credit manager ED HOYT, of U.S. Rubber Int'l. reports as a professor of business adminis­tration, College of City of New York, evening session. With his regular job, plus teaching and community life, Ed beats a busy life in East Pater­son, N.J. Ed hears regularly from FATHER JOE ENGLISH, Maryknoll, sees TOM HUGHES of Continental Can Sales Dept., and gives a *'well done" to BILL FALLON for doing a terrific job as President last year of the N.D. Club of New York. JOE SCHILLING moved from Ed's area and is with another Carpet Co. In the sales di­vision. 
Vice President BUCKY JORD.-VN missed our last column, has been to New York on business, met scribe PAUL FOLEY in the dining room (strange plac^) of the Ambassador. Bucky sees Slim JIM HACK In Chi. and tosses for the luncheon check regularly with JACK GILLESPIE, the Socony man of the mid-west. 
EDDIE REARDON answered our call for news and brings his record up to date with three boys and two gals (Brother Tommy with Xo. 10 due In the fall). Eddie reports on TO.M "FROG" HIG­GINS in the real estate business and the medical corps represented by GRAHAM OWENS and part time golfer JIM DOWNEY. He tried to contact RED ROONEY while on the west coast. Seems as though Eddie won a contest (? ?) and the prize was a trip to Disnr>.and, so the Reardons Inx'aded the far west. 
Hope you all recognized the young specialist In the Sal. Eve. Post Magazine. Our CHARLIE HUF­NAGLE hasn't aged a bit with all his hard work and accomplishments. Dr; Charlie will have to re­mind the author to mention N.D. along with Harv'ard and Georgetown in the article. 
 have tried ver>* hard to get a report from our Alaska Statehood man, BEN MULLEN. Seems as though news is hard to get from that area. Ben's file is clean and we thought this U.S. news would bring him forth. Maybe JACK GALLIV.AN can enlighten the class. Since our last news report we offered the class sympathy to LOU FEHLIG on the loss of his dad In July. Many thanks to all my 
REV. ANTHONY BROWN, '43 Rccorci-setting scholar 

The first earned doctorate to be granted by Montana State University, Missoula, Mont., was conferred this year upon Rev. Anthony Brown when he received the de­gree of doctor of education "in recognition of breadth of scholarly attainment and demonstrated ability to investigate pTobiems independently and effectively." 
The M. S. U. milestone is but one of several academic attainments of Father Tony Brown, now Dean of Studies and Professor of Education at Carroll College in Kelena. In August His Excellency Bishop Joseph M. Gilmore of Helena appointed him Diocesan Superintendent of Schools. He will retafn his duties at Carroll College. 
In his two-and-a-half years residence at Montana State, on leave from Carroll, Father Brown maintained a grade index of 3.96, or nearly a straight-A (4.00) average; taught a class in the history of education, and also worked as a research fellow on edu­cational studies being conducted by the School of Education under a grant from the W. K. Kellogg Foundation. 
A native of Anaconda, Mont., Father Brown graduated from Notre Dame as Brother Elston Brown, C.S.C., and taught high school for the next two years in Indi­ana and Wisconsin with the Brothers of Holy Cross, for whom he maintains a special affection. In 1945 he entered St. Edward's Seminary, Seattle, to prepare for the priest­hood. Ordained in 1949, he served in parishes in Butte and Anaconda before be­coming, in 1950, principal of a newly-built Anaconda high school. He left this post in 1952 to work for a master's degree at St. Bonaventure University and joined the Carroll College faculty in 1953. 
The Helena Diocese can offer a Catholic education from kindergarten to a college (Carroll) staffed by diocesan priests, with a minor scminar>' on its campus. 
correspondents^ but there are still a few of you delinquents I expect to hear from. 
From the Alumni Office: ED HOYT has directed the attention of JOE QUINN and this office to the latest laurels of former Secretary PAUL FOLEY, mentioned above. Paul, a senior vice president and director- of McCann-Erlckson, Inc., transferred last February from Detroit to the home office In Xe\v York, has been appointed chairman of the administrative council of the Madison Avenue advertising agency. BERNIE MARTY, director of product develop­ment for Invin, Nebler & Co. pharmacak ^and president of the Notre Dame Club of Decatur, III., Is taking out membership in the Society of Phar­macists in Industry. 
193 8 Burnett C Bauer "* 1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Indiana 
Next to our recent 20th year reunion, the most Important thing to happen to BILL GIBBONS this year, no doubt, was his marriage to Margaret Maitin, June 28th, In South Bend. His brother, Robert, was best man, but best man at the punch bowl at the reception held in the Indiana club was the class of '38 contingent headed by old baseball captain CHARLEY BOROWSKI, now chief detective of the South Bend police department who quickly delected it was NELSON VOGEL, CPA (Can't Pass Anchovies] who was accounting for the rapid" evaporation in the punch bowl. Nel­son, however gentlemanly, deferred the honor to FRANK SCHAFER, the old Louisville song bird, now in the Kitchen cabinet business — one look at Frank and there's no doubt he's been in kitchens. DON HICKEY, ED HAGER, DON SMITH and BOB DUBOIS were seen all trying to persuade The Professor ED CRONIN to leave a slice of the wedding cake for Bill and Margaret while .the recently cxed-secretary CRARLEY CALIAHAN was advising Yours Truly to write dou*n a fc\v notes and not to rely on memory for the coming column in the ALUMNUS. 

Said notes say DON HICKEY is with his father in the construction business, has three children and lives Just across from N.D.'s golf course v%'hlch might explain how he won that trophy at the Notre Dame Club of St. Joe Valley annual golf outing last June. Don's wife's cousin from Califor­nia while visiting the HIckeys saw ENNIO ARBOrPs name on the Memorial Mass card and mentioned that she used to baby sit for the Arbolts before hts heart attack death two years ago. She said Ennio %vas a x*ery popular and successful high school coach out there. ED HAGER has his own piano tuning business in" South Bend which he probably came into hon­estly since his brother is the new head of N.D.'s music department. Father CARL HAGER. Ed is no relative to TEX H.AGGAR, (Edmond R. of Dallas, that is) who recently distinguished himself and our class by being elected Vice-President of the Alumni Association and then almost extin­guished himself from the good graces of his class­mates by falling to show up for the reunion. By the way, our class president, JOHN C. O'CON­NOR, now Indianapolls's leading attorney, was also elected to the Alumni Association Board of Directors but he made it to the reunion — and back, I think? 
DON SMITH is a South Bend architect and BOB DUBOIS switched jobs recently to become Purchasing Director for Sky-Line Mobile Homes in nearby Elkhart but still lives in South Bend. Bob came to South Bend from Chicago six years ago and has a son, a senior, on the St. Joe High School football team, and a {laughter, nine. 
BILL GIBBONS after a honeymoon in Canada will be assistant office manager of the Shippers Dispatch Freight Lines in South Bend. Bill was president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joe Valley two years ago. 
An.lher BUI, WILLUM J. RILEY, of East Chicago, Indiana, who was spotlighted as the re<­cently elected head of the Indiana Bankers assoda*^ tion in the last. ALUMNUS, continues to get his name mentioned In Hoosicr papers. 
JOE HENEBRY is Vice-Presiden' of Sk>-motivc, Inc., at O'Hara Field, Chicago, with his brother, JOHN, class of '40 as a partner, according to word from CHARLIE CALLAHAN. 
A recent issue of -the Des Moines Register car­ried a big story of a trip in a B-32 Stratofortress by NICK LANIBERTO, whose newspaper work has won him national honors. Wish Xlck would do some reporting on class news from out his way 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 49 
or travels. Nick lives at 1507 Linden Lane, Dcs 
Moines, Iowa, in case FRITZ ITZEN, OTTO 
SCHERER or JIM LAHEY want to renew some 
of the arguments they had back in Quantico 
Marine PLC da>-s. , 
At the Serra International Convention m Chi­

cago, in June, I saw BILL ARMEL who is active 
"m the Chicago Serra Club and was guiding one 
of the tours to Mundelcin. Also met DICK CAR­
RIGAN hiking down Slate St. on the way to a 
big appointment. Dick lives in suburban Skokie. 
IHinois, and thought the 20lh reunion was wonder­
ful and that most of the fello^vs have held up fine 
except that more of them had become "civil war" 
golfers — out in 61, back in 65! He also tlioughl 
that NELSON VOGEL ought to be awarded some 
sort of monogram for keeping all night vigil at 
the Rockne Memorial during the reunion. All in 
favor, please send in your vote along with 50 
words or more of class news. Box tops not neces­
sar>*! See you at half time! 
HAL WILLIAMS sends the following from the 

land of the rising (Baltimore) Sun: 
"First a post can! from JACK ANTON. He sap 

that he will bt at the Collegio Pontifico Beda in 
Rome for four years starting October 6tli. As you 
know. Jack announced at the reunion that he has 
decided to become a priest. Up to the present time 
Jack was living in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
"DON HICKEY sends along the following in­

formation (I realize that you might also have this 
since you are living in South Bend): *DON FISH­
ER sent out birth notices, and BILL GIBBONS got 
married in July.' Don adds, Mf the rest of the bo>-s 
enjoyed the reunion as much as I did, they were 
well rewarded for their trip.' 
"I enjoyed it and one of the features of the re­

union for me was having a good chat with Don 
and meeting one of his boys he brought out to 
Mass on Sunday. 
"At a recent gathering of newspaper men in Baltimore I bumped into Len Gilbert, City Editor of the Bridgeport Post. Knowing that a city editor is well informed, I asked him if he knew a fellow by the name of RUS REDGATE, an English major and a native of Bridgeport. Mr. Gilbert told me that he not only knew Rus but worked with him. Rus, it turns out is one of the top reporters of the Bridgeport paper. A few da>-s after Mr. Gilbert returned to Bridgeport, he sent me a copy of the Post's brocliure. In it was a picture of Rus standing in front of the Bridgeport City Hall. Judging from the photograph, Rus has changed little from his college days. 
"That's about all the news I have to pass along. I think you did a fine job with your first column. Good luck and I hope that you get lots of news. If there is anything I can do for you, let me know." 
From the Alumni Office: THOMAS BOHEN picked up an M.B.A. from the University of Minnesota this year. The New York ^Vo^ld Telegram and Sun was as much impressed by the culinary skill of HARVEY FOSTER at an outdoor barbecue as by his cxpert­ncss with firearms as new chief of the New York division of the FBI. CHARLIE CALLAHAN reminds us that JOHN O'CONNOR and ED HAGGAR re-reunioned on campus in late July as members of the Alumni Board. Congratulations to JOHN B. O'DONNELL, just appointed manager of highway products sales for ALCOA Aluminum. 
JUNE 12-13-14 

1 939 J^™^ ^ - Motschall Singer-Motschall Corp. ­10090 West Chicago Detroit 4, Michigan 
I hope that you are all enjoying the football sea-^ son and that you are cheering on your Alma Mater 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus^ November, 1958 
DONALD A. DOHENY, '46 St. Louis* salesman 
Donald A. Doheny recently was elected 

President of the American Marketing As­
sociation in St, Louis. Don is Assistant to 
the President of Vestal Laboratories, Inc. 
Formerly associated with the St. Louis law firm of Igoe, Carroll & Keefe, he was, prior to his present position. General Administrator of Granco Steel Products. He served as President of the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis for two years and is presently directing the football excursions for the Club*s Scholarship Fund. Don was one of the thirt>' alumni invited by the Col­lege of Commerce to the first Alumni Busi­ness Conference in April, 1957. 
Don lives with his wife, the former Catherine Elizabeth Lee, in Frontenac, Missouri, with their three children. He at­tended Notre Dame and Marquette Col­leges of Engineering and received his LL.B. from Harvard in 1949. He did graduate work in industrial engineering and business at Washington University in St. Louis, where he is now a lecturer in Business Ad­ministration at Washington Universit>*. During World War II, Don served in the infantr>' and culminated his serxace as a first lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers. 
P.egistered in Missouri by the State Board of Registrations for Professional Engineers, chanical Engineers. He is a member of the Federal, Missouri and Wisconsin Bars as well as the American, Missouri, Wisconsin and St. Louis Bar Associations and the .American Judicature Society. As General Chairman of Public Relations of the Bar Association of St. Louis, he organized an extensive program in 1956 which won St. Louis the national award of merit for bar activities by the American Bar Association. Industrial Marketing Session at the Amer­ican Marketing Association's National Con­ference in Chicago. 
Don and his family are members of Our Lady of the Pillar Parish where he is active in the Men's Club. 
to an extremely successful year. I still have about forty names to go, and am trying to space them out over this issue and the next one, so I sincerely ask you once more, those of you who have never sent in either a first or second questionnaire, to please send in your notes concerning you, your family, your business and your acti\*ities during the last 19 years and 5 months. 
J. GREGORY RICE is an accountant in River Edge, New Jersey, where he lives with his wife and their three children — Gregory 3, Mary Jane 2, and Michael Peter who is 6 months. 
DAVE MESKILL is a district manager of the 

G.E. Supply Company in Wilmette, Illinois. Dave has a very fine .'amily of five, which coniiiti cf Katie 12, Tim 10, Susan 8, Patty 6, and Maureen 
2. Dave sees PAUL RICE and BILL RICKE who live in Wilmette, also ED DISSER and RAY SCHLECK. \Vc were very sorry to hear of the death of your father, Dave, and I am sure that our class will remember him in their prayers. 
JOHN F. O'HARA lives in Dearborn, Michigan, where he is Athletic Director, of Henry Ford Com­munity College, John has 4 fine children — John Jr. 13, Patrick 7, Mary Kathleen 9, and Sharon Ann 
4. John would like to hear from CHUCK THEl-SEN and STEVE ROGENSKI. 
JAMES A. YOUNG is in the general insurance business in Houston, Texas, where he lives with his wife and five children — James A., Jr., 14; Betsy, 10: Barbara Jean, 3; Sarah Ruth, 2; and Dorothy Anne, 9 months. Jim would like to hear from BILL HOFER. 
JIM BURNS is in the real estate and insurance business in Clo\is, New Mexico, where he Is work­ing hard to feed his 5 boys — Shaun, 7; Tim, 6; Pat, 4; Denis, 2; and Kex'in, 7 months. Jim would like to hear from CHUCK HAYES, KENNY BRAUN. PAUL BORGMANN and BILL ME­TRAILER. 
JOHN J. W1NTERMEYER is a practidng law­yer in Kitchener, Ontario, where he resides with hb wife and six children — Judith, 12; Mary, 10; Alfred James, 9; John, 7; Gretchen, 5; and Sarah, 
4. I quote from his questionnaire — *'I would very much appreciate it if any members of the class ever in Toronto area would contact me. I would be delighted to see any one of them. I spend a good deal of time in Toronto as a member of the Pro­vincial Legislature." 
JOHN J. DUNPHY writes from Los Angeles, California, where he is Vice-President in charge of investments for Beneficial Standard Life Insur­ance Co. John has three fine boys — Mark, 7; John, 5; and Steven, 1. 
KEN' HIGBY is in the retail business in Seattle, Washington, where he lives with hb wife, Janet, and their two daughters — Susan Leigh, 3, and Tara Ann, who should now be about a year old. Ken has been on the coast for about 10 years, most of which time was spent in San Francisco and the Bay are.i. He has now joined I. Magnin & Co., one of the top fashion stores on the west coast. 
RICHARD J. GARAB b Assbtant Sales Manager and Training Director for the Thermo-Fax Sales Inc. who represent Minn. Mining & Mfg. w*ith the "fabulous, fastest, exclusive dry-copy machine." Dick lives in Detroit with hb wife, Carol, and their three fine children — Ellen, 13; Daniel, lO'/z; and Neil, 8. The last '39cr that Dick saw outside my­self) was BOB PIERCECCHI who b a Ford exec­utive in Dearborn, Michigan. Dick would Hkc to hear from JOHN FOCHE and JACK NEUMANN. 
EDWARD J. CARROLL lives in Bedford, Pa., and is Sales Manager for the Mining Tool Div. of Kennametal Inc. Ed and hb wife, Marilyn, have seven children — Kevin, 7; Ricky, 6; Becky, 6; May Sue, 4; Tom, 3; John Robert, 2; and Michael, '/^, at the time of writing. Ed would like to hear from JOHN C. STARKIErand adds that if anyone b passing on the Pennsylvania Turnpike and stops at the Mid-Way Restaurant (Howard Johnson) he would be pleased if you would call him at Bedford 755, because hb office is only 200 ^-ards from the restaurant 
JOHN A. FERENCE, JR., lives in Pittsburgh, Pa., with hb wife, and two daughters — Jo Anne, 12; and Virginia, 10. John is a Svvitchgear Sales Engineer for the Westinghouse Electric Company and would like to hear from MIKE McGUIRE and HUGH SMITH. 
B. F. BINKOWSKI b a Meat Salesman in Nor­walk. Conn., where he lives with his wife, Janey, and their four children — Richard Owen, 10; Chrbtopher Lee, 8; Catherine Sharon, 6; and Mark Thomas, 3. He would like to hear from ED SIM ONICH, MOOSE GOrrSACKER and DICK O'MELIA. 
BOB SCHIRF is a Professional Engineer and Asst. Vice-President of the Laync Northwest Com­pany, a water supply contractor. Bob lives in Milwaukee, Wis., with his wife, Beverly, and their 6vc diildrcn — Kathleen, 12; Christine, 10; Ro­berta, 9; Stephen, 7; and Gregory, 5. Bob is very active in K- of C. and Holy Name work, and he agrees with most of us that going to Notre Dame was the best thing that ever happened. Bob would like to hear from JULIE TONSMEIRE and JOE HIEGEL. 
EDWARD M. BROSCOE lives in Syracuse, New York, with his %vife, Genevieve. Here he is the principal of Huntington Junior High School. Ed would like to hear from PAUL KELL, his old roommate, also LEONARD KAHLER (I hope wc have spelled his last name correctly). 
TOM BULGER lives in Indianapolis, Ind., with his wife, Therese, and their two daughters — Ann, 6; and Jeanne, 4/3. The last '39CR that Tom saw were JIM ROCAP and JIM BERNARD of Los Angeles. 
MAX BURNELL lives in Evanston, 111., where he is a Teacher-Football Coacli-Athletic Director of St. George High Scliool. Max and his wife, Kay, are particularly proud of their son, Max, Jr., 17; and daughter, Nlarla, 13. Max, Jr., is a 6 foot-3 inch, 205 pound quarterback, co-captain of the school team as well as being their leading passer, punter, point kicker and scorer. During the fifteen years that Max, Sr., has been head coach of St. George, they have been in. the Chicago Champion­ship game ten times, and this past year was their sixth in a row. Wife, Kay, has been oflicial statis­tician for the football team and has never missed a single game in sixteen years. Daughter, Maria, is a Patricia Stevens model. Max would like to hear from EARL BROWN (I recently saw him at Notre Dame Detroit Golf party), JIM McGOLDRICK, JOE THEISEN, MOOSE GOTTSACKER, JOE LEWIS, AL KIEFER and BOB ORTALE. 
TOM R. BOSSORT, Jr., lives in Bloomington, Ind., with his wife, Joan, and ts a Professor and ^fanagement Consultant. Tom would like to hear from any of his friends. 
EUGENE F. MILBOURN is Asst. Zone Mana­ger for American Motors Corp. and lives in Kan­sas, City, Kansas, with his wife, Jean, and three children — Sue Gene, 14; Ricky, II; and Patrick, 
9. Eugene would like to hear from BILL CASTLE­MAN. LOU FEHLIG and BUD DONOVAN. 
JOHN B. CELLA is the Vice-President of Cella Vineyards out in California where he lives with his wife, Tina, and their three children — Bar­bara, 10; John L., 9; and Peter, 5. John, Didn't you know your wife whilst you were still at school? Hope you will be back for the reunion next year. 
J. STIRLING MORTIMER is a practicing at­torney in the firm of Mortimer and Ryan in Chi­cago, also a professor at DcPaul Law School. John and his wife, Jeanne, have three fine children — Jeanne, 6; Joanne, 4; and John S., Jr., 3. John's partner is DANIEL J. RYAN, also of our class, who was recently appointed a Master in Chan­cery of the Superior Court of Cook County. John tells us that JOE McDERMOT, after being very-successful in Real Estate, is back at school and is about to graduate from DePauI Law Scliool; BOB CARMODY is the Comptroller at Oak Forest; BOB BREEN is President of the Citizens Loan Association; JOHN WHEELER developed the real estate in South Chicago almost single-handedly; and finally CHARLES EPHGRAVE is now Vice-President of the Carson Petroleum Co. Thank you, 

J. Stirling, for your fine report, and I am sure wc will have much to talk about at our coming re­union. 
PHIL NORTH works for a newspaper in Fort Worth, Texas, where he resides with his wife and four children — Kevin, II; Kerry, 5; Martin, 4; and Deirdre, 4 months. Phil would like to hear from ED O*C0NN0R as well as anyone else who remembers him kindly. Phil would like to pass on the following to all graduates of the class of '39 — he states, "With each issue of ALUMNUS and its pictures of -39 Classmates, comes a growing aware­ness that wc must all join in a strenuous Weight-reduction and hair-restoration program before the reunion in 1959, else wc shall none of us recognize one another." (Note to Phil — Bring your own girdle and toupee — I've already got mine on order!!) 
That concludes my news for this time, and I hope that all of you who haven't already done so, will send in your completed questionnaires as 
' quickly as possible. 
From the Alumni OfBce: BROTHER CYPRIAN MILKE, CS.C., received 

Clergy of the Class of 1943 who attended the fifteenth reunion of their class included (L to r.) Rev. Richard C. O'Brien of Galesburg, 111.; Rev. George Bernard, CS-C, newly-appointed Notre Dame vice president for student affairs; Rev. John R. Quinn of Kansas City, Mo., and Rev. Bede A. Fitzpatnck, O.F.M., en route to Japan. Absent when the picture was taken: Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C 
a master's degree in library science at St. John's University's (Brooklyn, N.Y.) 1958 Commencement. BILL HERRICK's ninth child (fifth boy) arrived 
May 19. 
In August WALTER H. JOHNSON, JR., was named senior vice president of marketing and a member of the board at Capital Airlines. Previously Walter had been with American Airlines since 1940 and vice president for passenger sales. 
I OdQ J^unes G. Brown 625 Madison Ave. New York, New York 
From the Alumni Office: 
SAM BOZICH has been made foreman of the polymerization unit at the Butyl Rubber Plant of Himiblc Oil, Baytown, Tex. He has been ser\'ing in Humble's executive development program. 
On July 1 Commander JOHN D. G.AVAN, USNR, of Charlotte, N.C., assumed command of NAS, Atlanta's Naval .Air Reserve Attack Squad­ron VA-673, dubbed by Georgia Governor Mar\'in Griffin "First Naval Wing of the Confederate Ex­peditionary Force." During the week John is branch manager for Connecticut General Life in Charlotte. He and his wife, Georgia Ann, have three children: Barbara, age 10; Maureen Ann, eight; and Kathleen, six. A.W.W. II carrier veteran, John led his squadron in September to the annual two Weeks training in California. 
JOHN J. MARTIN became a member of the New York-Washington firm of Bigham, Englar, Jones & Houston in July. 
1 0^ 1 James F. Spellman 
•'^' 7 East 42nd St New York 17, N. Y. 
From the Alumni Office: 
On September 15 MERVIN BAGAN became as­sistant to the president of Los Angeles Airways, Inc., pioneering the use of large turbine helicop­ters for passenger ser\*ice. A commerce and law grad, Mcrvin had previously been an attorney with the Civil Aeronautics Board and an agent of the Bureau of Internal Revenue. The Bagans are par­ents of seven children. 

Last issue carried a fifteen-year-old obituary* on ARTHUR D. RHODES, killed in acuon in the Battle of Cassino (Italy) in World War 11. This Is one of those infrequent but sad circumstances that occur in a large university. Art's mother, Mrs. Eugene S. Cohn of Anaheim, California, will con­tinue to receive the Notre Dame publications that she has received in the name of her heroic son, and we know Art's classmates will add their prayers to the intentions of the belated Memorial Mass offered by the Alumni Association. 
194 2 Waiiam M. Hickcy '^ ^ 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 
TOM NASH reports he has received an an­nouncement that. D.AVE BAGLEY has opened a law-office in Hartford, Connecticut, in partnership with a Richard Patterson. 
EMMETT MORAN, who now lives in Lake Worth, Florida, visited his old friends in Chicago. JIM .McNULTY reports that BOB R.AAF and STEVE BAGARUS are still flying in the Navy Rcscr\-c. 
DAN CANALE reports from Memphis that DONALD D. CONNORS is practicing law in San : Francisco with the firm of Brobeck, Phlcger and Harrison. Dan also heard from LEON BEATON 
' who is now the Sheriff and Collector of Clay County, Arkansas. Dan recently had some cor­respondence with Embro Popcorn Company of St. Louis, and reports that ED MANGLESDORF is an officer of the company and they have had correspondence. Bemie Crimmins was in Memphis for the Universal N.D. night and according to Dan did a very excellent job for the club. PAUL TAFEL and his family visited Dan recently and they had a nice visit. 
' Dan is in his tenth year of law practice in his late father's firm and is looking forward to meet­ing JIM ASMUTH who reportedly owns all of the pulp and half of the paper mills in Wisconsin. 
^Vc had a very nice letter from PAUL TAFEL. He sent newspaper clippings of the story of the near-tragic accident which Paul and his family had on their houseboat which burned on the Ohio River while Paul, his wife and six children were aboard. The boat burned to the watcrlinc leaving 
only the steel hull and Paul %%'as in the hospital 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 51 
Enjo>'ing "tea lime" on the Morrissey Hall veranda at last summer's reunion arc (I- to r.) Jack Barr>-, Howard Marlow, Mike Mahon, Wally Ziemba, "Bibs" Sweeney and {behind Sweeney) Pete Moritz, all of the Class of '43. 
three weeks with bums and his wife was in for 
eight weeks. Hts children, ranging in age from 4 
to 13, escaped the fire safely. 
Paul reports that he was in Houston and \'isited 
LARRY KELLEY and DON O'BRIEN recently 
and he also reports his nice visit with DAN CA­
NALE, Paul recently spent an enjoyable evening 
with TOM HENNIGAX and his fine wife in St. 
Louis. Tom is with a building supply company. 
While in Omaha he \-isItcd TOM WALSH, who is 
a lawyer and has been gifted with a fine family. 
W.ALT McCOURT is in Omaha now with Gen­
eral Tire Co. Paul also visited tvith BOB COLE­
MAN at his home in Cleveland and BILL KEYES 
and PAUL LILLIS were also there. Bill Kcycs has 
moved from Cleveland to Nashxille, Tennessee. 
While in Fort Wayne, he \-isitcd BYRON HAYES 
who is a ver>' promising lawyer there. COLEMAN 
McGUIRE is a food broker in Louisville and al­
though Paul practically lived ^ith htm during all 
four years at Notre Dame, they only see each 
other once a year. He hears from LARRY AUBREY 
who lives in Minneapolis where he is the treasurer 
of one of the largest department stores. From this 
information you can see that Paul is doing a lot 
of traveling. 
DAN McNAMARA is now the Honorable Dan­
iel J. McNamara, He has been a judge for about 
a year and it is quite an honor because he is the 
youngest judge ever to sit on the bench in Chi­
cago. 
That is the extent of the news available now. 
Sincerely Iiope that some of you who read tliis 
column will drop a note with news about your­
self or people that you have seen, and if you 
v\-ant a present address of members of our class, 
be sure to contact the writer as we have the ad­
dresses for the class members. 
From the Alumni Office: 
GORDON T. BETHUNE u-as appointed assist­ant comptroller of U.S. Steel's Oliver Iron Mining Division Sept. 1. The Bethunes live in Duluth with their four children. 
194 3 J°^" ^* ^Viggins 4800 Fairia\i'n Dr. LaCanada, Calif. 
Our congratulations to the new Class Officers elected to ser\e until the next Reunion in '63: 


52 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
President, OLLIE HUNTER; East V.P., BILL MIDDENDORF; Midwest V.P., BILL EARLEY; South V.P., HERB MELTON; Far West V.P., TO.M COONEY, and Treasurer, JIM MADIGAN. 
A round of thanks to the outgoing officers, "BUD" DUDLEY, BILL TRACY, GERRY FEE­NEY, "REBEL" L.\NAHAN, JACK TALLETT and DON HELTZEL. AND, a big cheer to our Ambassador of Good Will, FRANK KAISER. 
ED RONEY writes that duplicates of the stereo slides that he shot during the Reunion weekend are ax'silable at cost. Just drop him a note at llOO Buhl Bldg.. Detroit 26, Mich. Ed, you may re­member, set some sort of ^'shuttle" travel record the weekend of the Reunion. He checked in on Friday night for the pizza party, left to return to Detroit for his sister's wedding and then returned on Saturday evening. Ed also writes that he was impressed with the service provided by the student clerks in the Hall. Incidentally, I have written the Alumni Office and told them of the wonderful work those lads did. Roncy would like to hear from any other stock brokers. RAY SCHOONHOVEN has been elected National Commandant of the Navy Club of the U.S.A. LOU RYMKUS is now serv­ing as line coach for the Los Angeles Rams; he is now living in the San Fernando Valley. FATHER GEORGE BERNARD, C.S.C., has been appointed Vice President in Charge of Student Affairs at Notre Dame. I noticed that the last ALUMNUS listed Father George as the Class of '45, however, we all know that George had the foresight to list himself with the Class of '43. (Ed. Note: Sorrv! J.L.) Also at the University, FATHER BOB PEL­TON' is the new Rector of Alorrissey Hall. He must have liked it so well at Reunion time that he de­cided to stick around. Father Bob, incidentally, told mc as I was leaving campus after the Reunion that he u-as saying his second Mass that day for the intentions of the class members^ and for the deceased members. 
DR. BILL WELCH specializes in anesthesiology in the East Bay San Francisco area. Bill returned there after a stint in Sacramento. Another Call­fomian, MAURICE McDERMOTT, is employed by the Hcider Mortuarj- in Santa Barbara. He has two daughters. Anyone passing through Knights­toivn, Ind., on U.S. 40 will be welcomed by BOB RIHM, local meat packer. Bob has a daughter and two sons JOE MAGNELLA is a Sales Engineer for the Kendall Refining Co. of Bradford, Pa. JACK TALLETT reports that, he missed the Re­union because of the birth of his third, daughtet: that week. I suppose that JIM O'DONNELL, who had put Tallett and Don Miller on his list, will excuse Long John at least. "BUD" DUDLEY had expected a crowd of 90,000 for an auio thrill show-in the Municipal Stadium this summer only to have it rained out both days. The repeat was in Sep­tember. DICK HEISER regrets that he was unable to attend the Reunion. He sees JATE RADE­MACHER, the Marion, Ind., Coca Cola tycoon, abou: once yearly. Jatc has two sons and two daughters. DICK HEISER has a son and two daughters; he would like to hear from JOE GOE­KEN and BOB TORRENCE; his address is 2820 Pleasant. Hannibal, Mii. 
FRED HOTH, a widower with seven kids, was married May 3 to Estelle Betit in Sacred Heart Churcli, Bennington, Vt. PHIL STEROPOLI came up from New- Jersey for the wedding. Phil is a Fairlawn (N.J.) lawyer. Fred writes that he sees FATHER GORMAN, former St. Ed's Hall Rector, at Bennington Catholic High where Father taught Fred's daughter freshman Latin. JOHN BEHR an­nounces the birth of a daughter, Eileen Mar>', on November 27, 1957. BOB CARVER, the "old pro­fesser," announces the birth of Ann Bradley Carver on June 25, bom in Euclid, Ohio, the Carvers' first child. DR. LEIGH SULLIVAN has adopted his fouilh child; he saj's he had his hands full with four under four. Publicist AL CL/\RK writes that he attended the ordination of FATHER DICK POWERS, S.J., at Fordham University. Dick celebrated his First Mass on June 22. In at­tendance with Clark were JOE TRACY and his wife. FRANK KUNKEL and wife were attendees at the ordination, also the JOE MANNIONS. Al reports the arrival of their third boy, Brian, bom 
one-half hour after Christmas. 
BILL WALSH is Gcrcnte de Produccion for Pfizer de Mexico. Bill had just moved to Mexico 

. City before the Reunion; you may recall the wire he sent us at Morrissey Hall on the big weekend. Bill and his wife are planning to take in the SMU game in Dallas this season. JACK MORRISON has three children: a daughter and two sons. Jack writes that he sees TOM COURTNEY occas'onally; Tom has five children. JOHNNY .McHALE writes that he begs to be excused lor missing the Re­union. He was tr>*ing to get the Tigers respectable in the American League flag race. I suppose with those Yankees to catch it IS a time consuming chore! The McHalcs have three sons and three daughters, ages one to ten. BOB BAKER cans peas and corn up in Wisconsin for sale to institutions. Bob says that JOE FARWELL finally broke down and got married. Joe is back in New York after some time in Chicago. There are four little Krcsocks, so reports pediatrician JOE KRESOCK. 
Joe was moving his office around Reunion time and could not attend. ED N£/\GLE is a partner in a Newark (N-J.) law firm. Ed has three sons. JOHN "PINKY'* WALSH reports: "Had our sixth child during Reunion. Barbara Walsh. Poor plan­ning, but that's life. Saw ADRIAN PADON in April. He's a big oil lease operator and has many a dry hole in Wyoming. Some wet ones, too, of course. JACK BARRY, FRED GORE, BOB SWEENEY and I are a regular weekend foursome^ Barry is the last of the long ball hitters. Up to 180 yards sometimes! Swccnev is great at gin after golf. Gore prefers vodka." 
STAN MURRAY writes that he spent a pleasant afternoon with JOE GIBBONS and his wife in New' York last May. JOHN REGAN, our reunion returnee from Rio, sa>-s that he visited JACK Mc-GRATH and PAUL FISHER in Washington, D.C., en route home. From JOHN SCHERER: "The Reunion was certainly a success. Getting together again with roommates DON HALLER, BILL HORMBERG, FRED DEWES, and BOB REALE was most inspiring . . . especially considering Realc's laugh, Dewes' consumption, Hormberg's bull and Haller's sincerity (he married my sister). We missed JIM MAHER, the sixth member of our group . , . nevertheless he was toasted every sixth drink. I might add that all of the aforementioned colleagues appreciate Hormberg's pulling himself away from the track long enough to attend the June get-together. Am looking forward to our 20th." 
DICK HALL moved from Gary, Ind., to Daven­port in 1954. Dick supports his wife and three kids through his food brokerage business. Dick sees JOHN SCHMID who is in the wholesale electric supply business, Dick would appreciate a call from anyone in the area for the low-a game this fall. Dick would like to hear from BOB CALLAN, DON DEGNAN, BOB RENSBERGER and WALLY CHRISTMAN. NilCHAEL J. CARVER U president of_ Hub-O-Matic Co. of Portland (Ore.) and a 
part-time instructor at the University of Port­land. BILL McGOWAN'S latest arrived on June 7, name Michael William. Little Mike has a sister and a brother. BROTHER NORMAN HE/\D, C.S.C., is now stationed at the Rancho San An­tonio in Chatsworth, Calif., deep in the San Fer­nando Valley. NICK VILLAROSA says that they arc expecting number five on Labor Day. Another son, says Nick, and he'll have a backfield. Nick gets together once a year with HARMON SPINA, his former roomie, now Chicago Heights City At­torney. BILL DOUCETTE is assistant vice pres­ident and claims manager of the Milwaukee Automobile Mutual Insurance Company. Bill has seven kids. He would like to hear from JOE NORRIS. 
That ends this installment of news gathered from the Class Notes cards whiclt were mailed with the Class Officer ballots. I have retained half of the replies for the next issue since I am wary of a post-Reunion doldrums. 
A personal announcement concerning the arrival of our third son, Paul Francis, who weighed in at II lbs., 13 ozs. on August 19 in Pasadena, Calif. That brings the family to a half dozen children. 
From the Alumni OlHce: JACK WIGGINS would appreciate the latest on Montreal's LARRY SULLIVAN, who gave McGill University the gate in June after four years as head football coach. 
JUNE 12-13-14 
George A. Bariscillo, Jr. 
1944 
515 5th Ave. Bradley Beach, N. J. 

By the time this column reaches you, you should have in your hands a roster of the class of 1944. If the roster has not caught up with you by No­vember 15, 1958. please drop me a post card and I'll sec that one reaches you at your new address which may be difTcrent from the last one reported to the Alumni Office. 
The mailing of the class roster represents the first in the scries of informational letters and circulars you will receive, previewing our I5th reunion on the campus next June. It is hoped that the roster will enable you to locate your former roommates and friends, and between now and next June — perhaps during the Christmas period — you will have a chance to contact your friends and notify them you arc planning to attend the reunion, in­quiring whether they will be on hand. It is our aim next June to surpass (if that is possible) the tremrndous attendance and excellent time we en­joyed at the lOlh reunion. It goes without saying that all of those who were back for our lOth re­union will no doubt be returning in June. We hope that those who missed the lOlh will make definite plans now to be present for our 15th gala cele­bration. 
Each member of the Class of '44 will shortly receive in the mail a questionnaire, which I would ask you to complete and return to me at your earliest opportunity. From the information fur­nished in this class sur\-cy, we will assemble for presentation at the reunion in June a brochure filled with information that we hope will prove interesting, entertaining and enlightening, and will be a memento of our I5th reunion gathering. 
Each member of the class is invited to take whatever steps he deems in the best interests ot the class in further publicizing and promoting the reunion to assure maximum attendance, and in this regard the roster should be of invaluable assistance. 
JOHN LYNCH and BOB LEHMAN have again consented to act as local chairmen, and I will have had several meetings with them at Xotre Dame by the time this column is published. Our basic plans should be formulated and once again I invite your comments, obser\*ations, suggestions and as­sistance in making this a most successful reunion. Your individual attendance will insure the success 
DR. JACK W. MILDER, *48 
Cancer fighter 
The .American Cancer Society's new .Administrator for Grants to Research on the Therapy of Cancer is J. W. Milder, M.D., formerly Executive Secretar>* of the Surger>- Study Section, Division of Research Grants, for the National Institutes of Health. 
Responsible for all research grants on cancer treatment. Jack will work with the ACS .Advisor)- Committee on cancer therapy research, including some of this countr>'*s outstanding scientists. He will also be re­sponsible for effecting a close liaison with investigators, institutions and other fund-granting agencies in this field of research, which involves all the tools of medical, biological and physical sciences, including the developments of the atomic age. 
Jack is a native of Chicago, ser\'ed two years with the na\'y in World War II and followed up his premcdical studies at Notre Dame with degrees of Bachelor and Doctor of Medicine from the Northwestern Uni­versity Medical School. Completing his in­ternship at Passavant Memorial Hospital, Chicago, in 1951, he began a three-year residency in internal medicine at Hines Veterans Administration Hospital. 
In 1954 Jack established a private prac­tice as a specialist in internal medicine in Kankakee, 111., leaving in 1957 to join the Public Health Ser\'ice in Bethesda, Md., as executive secretary for NIH surgical re­search grants. His work in\'oIved adminis­trative tasks concerned with surgical research throughout the countr)*. From there he was offered his present position. 
Jack is married and has one child. He will work from .ACS headquarters in New York City. 
of the gathering, and the prospect of renewing friendships and reliving memorable experiences should make it difficult for any class member to miss this event. Hie campus has blossomed with many new buildings, and there will be many inter-• esting side items mixed in with the usual reunion iveekcnd program to reward each *44cr on tap! 

The column has a pardcularly healthy flair this time as we report on a number of our medical men. BILL KELLOW is now Assbtant Dean of the University of Illinois College of MetHcine. Bill is married, has four lovely daughters and resides at 901 S. Wheaton Avenue, Wheaton, Illinois. He reports that DICK BODIE has been certified by the American Board of Surgery as a specialist in that field and is practicing in Aurora, Illinob. He has eight children and is a winter book favorite to win the children's derby at the reunion in June. HAROLD HALEY is a member of the Depart­ment of Surgery at Loyola University, Stritch School of Medicine. 
CLARENCE V. WARD, who was formerly resi­dent ph>'sician at Hines Veterans Adminutrauon Hospital, is no^v in private practice, specializing in ophthalmology in Peoria, Illinois. 
BILL SCHEUCH is with Xorth American Avia­tion in California and living at 509—17th Street, Manhattan Beach. Bill expects to be back for the reunion in June and reports seeing ART LEY fre­quently, as Art is also working at North American Aviation. He also reports visiting with MIKE MALLOY in New York on a business trip not long ago, and recently was in Palo Alto, California, where he spent some lime with JOE FIEWEGERJ Joe is with Marathon Paper covering -the San Francisco area. 
Bill inquires for MIKE KILEY, BOB BURKE, DUTCH VON HOENE and GENE PILOWSKI. Bill has three youngsters and hopes that any '44crs who may be visiting in his area, check the phone book and contact him. 
So much for the news for this time. The big news, of course, is the up-coa.ing reunion next June. I will appreciate as much promotional help as possible among the individual members of the clasSj and particularly from our class officers. 
From the Alumni Office: Rejoining the Class of '44 is JAIME RAMON MORAf customs broker and cattleman in Ciudad Juarez, just across the border from El Paso, Texas. A little obligation to the Mexican Air Force forced Jaime to leave the class back in '41. He has been close to the £1 Paso Club for years and has been very active in the Knights of Columbus and other organizations. Jaime and his wife have seven chil­dren: Maria Eugenia, 11; Jaime Arturo, 9; Jose Luis, 8; Sergio Antonio, 6; Arturo Manuel, 4; Joaquin Alberto, 2; and Alfonso Horacio, about 5 months. Add his address to the rosters you receive: Cerrada del Teatro 424, Cd. Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico. No word from ED DOWLING since he was ap­pointed director of purchasing last year for Inter­continental Hotels, subsidiary of Pan American World Airways, his former outfit. 
I O^ C AI Lcsmcz I Tt9 J22 Tullamorc Rd. Garden City, N. Y. 
GET ON YOUR MARK. . . . In just five months we'll be saying, "GET SET" because it will then be Just one year away for the "GO" of it. .And the "GO" will be to the 15­ycar reunion of our '45 Class. The "GO'* will be easy because it will mean the fun and friendship of getting together with the rest of our classmates. That will be in June I960. The "GET SET" won't be quite as much fun, but it will be the life-line of any success the re­union will enjoy. This will include the forming of committees, selecting chairmen, finalizing plans, and keeping y'all informed of what kind of "hot­time-in-thc-olc-town" we're drumming up. That will be beginning next June. For now we have the "gct-on-your-mark" period which involves each and every one of you. It's the basic ideas and suggestions period . . . ideas which must come from YOU to make our 15-year a truly GREAT reunion. Drop me a line with your recom­mendations. My own suggestion to those who came to the terrifically successful lO-year reunion back in 1955 is that you decide now that you will bring an-
Notre Dame Alumnus^ November^ 1958 53 
other '45 member. If we have the same happy group we had in 1955, along «ith all those who should have made it but didn't, we'll have the time of cur lives. 
Let's hear some ideas!! We want to tailor-make this reunion for YOU!! In the meantime, circle that early June 1960 period of your life for class reunion out Notre Dame way. 
THE LOST OF THE CLASS: The follou-ing men have been mailed letters by me, and these letters have been returned by the Post Office Department, not delivered because of lack of for\%-arding address: Mr. EDWARD K. HANDLAN, 2905 Wingate Court, Rock Hill, Mis­souri- Mr. FRAN'CIS J. KELLY, 3363 Goodfcllow Blvd., St. Louis 21, Missouri: Mr. GEORGE T. HALEY, 37 No. Pine .\venuc. Chicago 44, Illinois; Mr. HAROLD H. SCHULTZ, 178S West 32nd Street. Eric, PennsyK-ania: Mr. LOWELL V. WARD, ICOO Mineral Springs Rd., Reading Pcnn­5>lvania; Mr. WILLIAM M.' PERRY. 65 Lincoln Blvd., Long Beach, New York; Mr. JOHN W. .ADAMS. 3500-14th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.; Mr? FRANCISCO J. CABRERA. Apartado Aereo 1331, Cali., Colombia, S.A. PAUL W. SMITH, of 526 Meadoiv Lane, De­catur, Georgia, has recently moved to 3492 Woods Drive, Decatur, Georgia; and EDGAR H. STROOT. JR., of 1018 Greenwood Rd., Wheat­on, Illinois, now resides at General Deliver^*, Santa Rosa, Calif. And in this comer wearing a white diaper, bom August 5, 1958 at 10:02 A.M., weighing 6 lbs. 2 ozs. . . . James Andrew Cicmcncy. His brother, Joseph Edward, in the blue diapers, born four minutes later, weighmg 5 lbs. and 9 oz. . . . It's a battle to the finish with the referees, Cathie and BILL CLEMENCY, proud of their ne^v twins and mak­ing a total score now of 3 girls and 5 boys. It's two more address changes for the record as DR. EMMET T. SHEERAN, fonneriy of 4107 Dawnshire Drive, Parma 29, Ohio, finds a new atmosphere at his ne^v residence, 852 N. Main, Fostoria, Ohio, as well as REV. DONALD J. TRACEY. St. Man's Church, 1114 Fletcher Street. Anderson, Indiana. It's bottle warm-up and formula time as Doro­thy and ERNIE RAUSCHER receive their con­gratulations on their new baby boy, Robert, born July 19, 1958, at a boundng weight cf 7 lbs and 1 oz. Almost forgot four new residences: MICHAEL 
A. BIISESI, formerly of 2243 E. Garfield Dr., Indianapolis 3, Ind., now residing at 2905 E. Col­lege, Boulder, Colorado; TERRY ERLE WILSON, once of 735 S. Harvard Blvd., Los Angeles, Califor­nia, now c/o Shell Oil Co. Legal Dept., 50 West 50th Street, New York 20, N.Y.; JOSEPH MI­CHAEL SYLVESTER, JR., formeriy of 377 Franklin Ave., Franklin Square, New York, now at 3 Vista Way, Port Washington, New York; and ROBERT PHILPOTT, lately of 20 Myrtle Place, Eastchester, New York, now redding at 10 East End Ave.. N.Y. 
DID YOU KNOW THAT. . . . FRANCIS E. (BUD) MALONE, residing at 3237 Aldringham with his wife. Sheila, can start the Malone Basketball Team . . . that the oldest of the five fJiildren is Pamela, 10; then Peter, 8; Da\id, 7; Richard, 6; and Mark, 3 . . . that Bud IS a Special Agent for the Prudential Insurance Co. . . . that he belongs to the Toledo Alumni Club, which just had a meeting to introduce the new ofiicers. (the meeting was very successful) ". . . that BOB ERKINS, of Snake River Trout Ranch, Buhl, Idaho, is married to Bemardine ("Bamee"), and already has four children . . . that their ages range from two to eight — Gregory, Melissa, Me­linda and Maria . . . that while you may be eating some delicious trout, it is quite possible that Bob's company may have processed this trout .. . he is the president of the world's largest trout hatchery . . . that his firm produces and processes fresh and frozen Rainbow Trout for hotel, restaurant, and food market trade throughout the United States .. . that JOE HAGGAR is married to Isabel! . . . that they have three children, Lydia, 814; Joe III, lYz-y and Marian, 4 . . . that if you are ever in need of money, see Joe — he is Secretary-Treasurer of the Haggar Co. .. . that if you need money badly, *you will probably find him hiding at the Notre Dame Club of Dallas, where he is a member . . . that JOHN E. CAS­SIDY, JR., will always be at your service if you ever find yourself on the **other side of the law" .. . he is an attorney and partner of the Cas­sidy & Cassidy Co. . . . that his wife, Helen, and his four children, Kathleen, John £. Ill, Timothy 
Robert J. Williams, *49, vice president and general manager <rf Cadillac Products, Inc., Detroit, is on loan to the Department of Commerce as Assistant Director of the Con­tainers and Packaging Division of the Busi­ness and Defense Services Administration. 
James, and Christopher Frands, are always stand­ing by, ready to testify for the attorney's client in case of a losing battle in court . . . that HARRY 
J. GILLIGAN, JR., now residing at 2926 Wood-bum Ave, Cincinnati 6, Ohio, is married to Jane Dorger . . . they are very proud of their big family of six children, ranging from zero to six years. Their names are Ann, Harry III, Michael Bryan, Mary Beth, Peter and ? .. . that Harry is the partner and Funeral Director of John J. Gilligan & Son . . . that Harry has quite a feu- visitors every once in a while (alive and kicking), just to mention a few, HANK SLAMIN. BILL WADDINGTON. DAVE CHAMPION, ANDY ROHAN, ED MERSMAN, JOHN CRON­IN and ED HANLON pass through town occa­sionally on business . . . that JOHN B. CARON of 1237 Tillon Park Drive, Rochelle, Illinois, is living with his wife, Ann, and his new-bom baby, John, 9 mos. . . . that John is doing very well as the President of the Caron Spinning Co. . . . that KEN KEHL will never have to worry about his family's dentist bills. . . . Ken is a D.D.S. .. . his wife, Lucille, and his children, Carolyn, Cathy, Kenny, Cristy and Kim, all have that won­derful "Pepsodent Smile" . . . that JOHN J. L. JOHNSON is always found driving around in a Ford .. . he is the Manager, Administrative Dept. of the Ford Motor Company .. . he and his wife, Margaret, are very proud of their three children, Mary Siisan, 7; John Joseph, 5; and James Vin­cent, 3 .. . if you want to know all about Fords, you can write to 203 S. Williamsbury Road, Birmingham. Michigan, where the Johnson family resides . . . that ROBERT E. DERMONT and his wife, Joyce, whose mail address is P.O. Box 408, Martin, Ky., have four lovely children rang­ing in age from 4 to 12 . . . their names are Theresa Joyce, Mary Ellen, Robert Stephen, and Joseph Caniel . . . that the Dermont family can never be hungry. . . , Bob is the Manager of a Dermont's Super Market . . . that BILL CASTLE is another lucky family man who doesn't have to worry about the dentist bills . . . that he and his wife, Jean, have six lovely seU of teeth running around the house, Mary Beth, Michael, Carol, Ann, 
Staci, and BHl Jr that ROBERT E. THOMAS, Lieutenant Commander, U.S. Navy, can be found after August 25, 1958, at the Dept. of Seamanship and Navigation, U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland . . . that his wife, Nancy, and his two children, Linda Sue, and Julie Ann, stay at home when Bob docs the submerging . . . that he is the Executive Officer of the submarine Conger . . . that RAY WOLLAM is a Lt. Commander and a naval aviator . . . that ED LAROCQUE of 2702 Poin­sette Drive, Fort Wayne, Indiana, is married . . . that he and his vrife, Marilyn, have two children, Edn-ard A. Ill, and Michelle Marie . . . that Ed 
is employed by the International Harvester Co., Fort Wayne, Indiana .. . he is the Ass't. Chief Process Engineer . . . that JIM BUTLER visits Ed about 4 times a year . . . that MATTHEW J. BAJOREK, of 704 W. Elm Street, Titusville, Penn., and bis wife, Shirley Ann, have a 15-month old baby by the name of Stephen Matthew . . . that Matthew is the Quality Control Manager of the Struthere Wells Corporation, in Pa. . . . that he ran into a couple of N.D. classmates by the name of FRANK GOODMAN and JACK COLLINS . . . that ROBERT F. LARKIN and his \rife, Mary Theresa, would love to hear from JAMES HOR­GAN and a few others from that 1941 freshman class .. . his address is 134 Grove Street, Mont­clair, - New Jersey. . . . Bob is Program Director at the Essex County Catholic Youth Organization . . . that he has full charge of 75 parishes in the county with respect to the running of Catholic youth activities . . . that DR. JAMES A. Mc-GLEW is the man to see for any of your aches or pains .. . if you u-ant a prescription, write to No. 1 Cambridge Avenue, Marion, Ohio . . . that his wife, Mar>' Rita, and his three children, Mary Marguerite (S/j), Mary Josephine (4^), and James Francis (S'/t) are all in good health . . . that H. 
B. PAYNE of 128 N. Monroe, Hinsdale, III., is taking shooting lessons from BUD GOTl'A and JOHN MACK . . . that Hank's wife, Eudora, and his three children, Lan (10), Tom (8), and Mary Nell (1), worry a little when the provider goes out with his shotgun for some good hunt . . . that MELVYN PHLIILP TOMBER of 520 Burdettc, Muhawaka, Indiana, is very proud of his wife, Sibyc, and his two children, Deborah (2) and David (3 mos.) . . . that Melvyn is with the In­diana Cab Co. .. . he is also doing substitute teaching work. 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT From EMMET THOMAS SHEERAN, M.D.: *'Just a note to let you know that I have settled in Fostoria, Ohio, where I am doing general surgery. **I think you're doing a great job. I enjoy reading about the other fellows very much. P.S. Do I owe any dues?" (We can always use dues. They are $5 for the 1955-1960 period. Thanks for the nice words.) 
From ART EDWARDS: "I certainly enjoyed seeing you again at the STWE dinner last month. The first thing that I thought of when I saw you was the obstacle course out on Carticr Field when we were freshmen. You were always sprinting along on the last quarter-mile lap just about the time I was getting over the first hurdle. **In answer to your question about what I've been doing the last few years, I've been doing tech­nical writing. After getting out of the Na\y, I finished off at N.D. in 1947, spent a year at Car­negie Tech, and went to work for Union Carbide in 1948. For the past five or six years, I've been working for Hayncs StelHte Company — a Division of Carbide. I get out to Kokomo quite a bit and that's only a little way from South Bend, so I've been there often too. The first time I went out, it was quite a shock. I noticed a lot of kids u*alking around the campus and decided they were high-school students on a tour. All of a sudden I re­alized they were college students and they weren't kids. It was I that was getting old. "\Vho have I seen from '45? I met FRANK MacCAULEY about a year or so ago. I believe he's in business for himself in New York. He gave me a business card but I lost it. My last Christ­mas card to GEORGE O'LAUGHLIN came back in 1936 marked "Moved 2 years." I spoke to BOB ENTRUP'S mother about five years ago in Cleve­land. He was in the diplomatic service in the Middle East. TAYLOR LYMAN, whom some of the metallurgists may remember as a graduate student, is in Cleveland with the American Society for Metals. BILL MANLEY is chief metallurgist down at Oak Ridge. BOB LARKIN was with the Newark News. (Editor's note: please sec *'Did You Know that" above for Bob's present work.) *'Names I always look for in your column, but don't see very often are CHUCK SARTORE, ELMER GILLESPIE, BILL DAILEY, VINCE GUSHING, DICK BURNS, BILL COTTER, JOHN 
MCLAUGHLIN, BILL ROBERTS and, of course. MIKE O'BRIEN and JOHN LEAHY who were my roor^mates in Breen-Phillips. I guess I don't have a legitimate complaint, however, because I haven't been too communicative myself, for the past ten or so years. 
"It really was good to meet you again, Al. When you're in the city, please give me a call. P.S. I'd 

54- Notre Dame AlumnuSj NovembeTj 1958 
be glad to help out with the 1960 reunion. I'm just leaving for my vacation but will be available afterwards." 
From BILL MOORE: "Nothing vcr>' much new around our way other than our daughter, Barbara Jean, just had her 7th month birthday. Barbara is our only daughter, and her three older brothers xcm to be quite fond of her. "The dues since our last appeal have been coming in slowly, and as of now, the trickle has pretty nearly dried up. . . . You can readily see that only a ver^ small portion of the class has responded. "I would like to have you urge again in your column that those who have not sent in their $3.00 dues, please do so at the earliest possible moment. "I haven't seen any of the fellows from the class recently, but I did have lunch not too long ago with JACK KEARNEY. Jack is an assistant man­aging technical editor for Electrical World, and we get together off and on for lunch." 
From LOU LAUTH, JR.: "The ^Lauth's Kiddie Komer' is now celebrating its 5th anniversary as Southeast Iowa's most com­plete department store for Kiddies from Heaven to Seven. If it's made for kids, we have it . . . wearing apparel, toys, furniture, accessories. With 6 kids, it's cheaper to own your own store, so wc started one! "My children range from John, 3; through Mike, 6; Irene, 7; Kathy, 8; and Pat, 10; to Connie, II. "As owner of the 'Lauth's Kiddie Komer' I have certain duties which consist of sweeping, advertising, clerking, merchandising, buying, accounting, hiring, firing, window washing, worrying and one or two important things too numerous to mention. Since 1945 I have worked for the Benner Tea Co., head buyer of Bakery Division, member e.xccutive sales staff; Wcyher advertising agenc>', sales manager; and Thomas Motor Co., sales manager. "In 1955 I took a trip back to the campus for that reunion which we're still talking about. **I have been writing articles on business admin­istration presently being published by Earnshaw's Magazines of New York, also Blue Ribbon Speech for National Research Bureau of Chicago. Earn­shaws has made me a member of its editorial retail forum. Our turn of a phrase seems to intrigue them there new yokkers, **AL WADE travels this territory very ably for a window shade outfit and stops for a session cvcr>' time he's in town. He travels pretty well for a "blind man." Wish more great guys like Al would drop in when their 'wagon trains' go through this 'Sinus Valley,' local joke about the great Missis­sippi \*alley. Best regards." 
DON'T BE LAZY How many of you have put off writing me for much too long. Well, think of me, trying to put this column together, and get out the rusty pen. Write me while you're feeling sorry. With that, I'll hang my "close" on this line. Best regards, Al. 
194 A J^*^*^ Tenge, Jr. I #-iw 2025 W. Six Mile Rd. Detroit 3, Michigan 
From the Alumni Office: At long last there is word from VINCE JACOBS, who received a Master of Education degree in June from Wayne State University in Detroit. Vincc is still teaching health and physical education in the Detroit public school system. He is married and bought a new home last year at 24842 Ward, Tay­lor Center, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit. We're sure Vince would like to get word on some of his classmates, and so would this column. Congratulations to JAMES F. MOLIDOR, re­cently named manager of a new hospital sales division of Johnson & Johnson for the Midwest. Jim will have his headquarters in St. Louis, Missouri. 
194 7 Jack MUes, Jr. 
•'^ ' 3218 BenUey Lane South Bend 15, Indiana 
Our erstwhile secretary, JIM MURPHY, recently spent a few days in San Francisco; actually he and his wife, Barbara, were absent from the campus 10 days in all, but his mission was official since he represented the University at the convention of the American College Public Relations Association. 
MARTIN E. ZERNICK, *49 Transfer in transformers 
Martin Zemick was recently appointed Vice President for Manufacturing at New York Transformer Company's plants in Alpha and Phillipburg, New Jersey. 
A native South Bender, Martin was graduated with a Bachelor of Science de­gree in mechanical engineering after army ser\'ice overseas in World War II. 
After graduation Martin joined the Gen­eral Electric Company in Fort Wayne, Indi­ana, where he has been employed for the past nine years. The last position he held at 
G. E. was that of Manager of Shop Opera­tions in the company's specialty transformer department. 
He is married and has four youngsters, Connie Jo, Billj Carol Lee and John.­Martin, his wife Marie and the children will make their home in Easton, Pennsyl­vania, where they are building a house at 3647 Mountain View Avenue. 
The esteemed Director of Public Information reports the meeting was welt attended, with some 500 members sampling Golden Gate hospitality. 
While there he was good enough to take the time to make a few phone calls (at his own expense) to classmates in the Bay area and he registered a .333 batting average: failed to establish contact with EMIL SLOVAK and JOHN LAWRENCE ZUCCA, JR., but DID have a nice talk with DR. ROBERT 
T. TERRY. 
HELP WANTED 
The following was just received from Brother Ivan Dolan, CS.C , our missionary in the land of the white ant and the mon­soon: *'You probably won't believe this. . . We are digging our way out of the mud, slime and stink of another major flood. The repair work facing us is staggering. Vihat H-asn't damaged in the floods of '34 and *53 got it this year. Tell the Class of '47; they'll know what to do. Classmates can send do­nations to Brother Ivan Dolan, C.S.C., Holy Cross High School, P.O. Hashnabad, Dii­trict Dacca, East Pakistan. 
At the time of the talk in July, the Tczrys were expecting their sixth child, and fortuitously Bob is a pediatrician, having received his MJ), from St. Louis U. in 1918. He is associated in his prac­tice with DR. ROY W. PINELU, '40, of Cohna. Calif., who with his brother. RALPH R. PINELLI. 

' '41, won baseball monograms; they are sons of the former league imipire. Babe Pinelli. 
Correspondent Murphy also received a line on a high school classmate of hts in Indianapolis,. DR. LEO A. STRUTNER, JR.; he's a cardiologist at San Jose, Dr.' Terry said, and their paths occa­sionally cross. •^' 
Jim also visited with JOHN O'CONNOR, '48, a writer for the San Francisco Monitor, the arch­diocesan publication, and Frisco area correspondent for the NCWC News Service. 
ST. LOUIS SLANTS — Your secretary spent a few days in the Motmd City over Labor Day and gleaned quite a bit of. pertinent info on men of *47 In that city by the Mississippi. 
BOB ROSENTHAL describes himself as pretty much of a troubleshooter for the Carboline Co., fast-growing manufacturer of protective coatings. Rosie, the concern's first employe 9 years ago, says the business has grown to worldwide proportions and he is obliged to travel 23% of his working time. He is the father of a daughter, 3, and a son, V/2. 
WILLIAM B. GUYOL, sales manager of the Ronnoco Coffee Co., lives with his wife, three daughters, and son In suburban University City; another U. City resident is ROBERT A. GRIESE­DIECK, but we failed to find him at nome. It Is :iafe to say, howev*er, that he is in the brewery business for the Griesedieck name Is synonymous with brewing in that dty. 
A competitive brewery, Anheuser-Busch, employs JOHN MUELLER as its plant engineer; he Is responsible for designing and planning new equip­ment and new bre%%'enes and Is currently working on a plant at Tampa, Fla. He and his wife have four children, equally divided. 

DR. RICHARD F. HUCK, JR., untH Jan. '37 chief of gastroenterology at Fort Campbell, Ky., currently is Mo.-lII area medical adviser to the em­ployes benefit committee of the Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. He received bis medical degree frc»n Washington U. In St. Louis in 1948, and his fam­ily comprises a wife, a daughter, and a son. 
VINCENT J. LIERMAN couldn't be reached, but his sister told me he is - production manager for the New Era Shirt Co. 
ROBERT F. TORRENCE is in the sales depart­ment of G. S. Robins & Co., distributor of Indus­trial chemicals; active In the St. Louis section of the American Chemical Society, Bob and his wife have 6- and 3-year-old daughters. 
Missed GEORGE DESLOGE with regularity over the weekend, but he was pictured with his small sons, Edward and Michael, In the newspaper soci­ety section during a late-summer vacation In Michigan. 
Defending champion in the Suburban Bix Six high school football conference Is Normandy High School, coached by VERN WINTER, who feels his lads have as good a chance as any to take It all again thb season. Besides his coaching duties, Vem teaches phys. ed. at the school, and his family In­cludes two daughters — 6 and 1 and a 3-year-old son. 
One of his Marine buddies at N.D. and a pitcher for JAKE KLINE'S summer baseball team', Vem recalls, was former Illinois Whii Kid ANDY PHILLIP, who Is climaxing a fine professional basketball career by taking over the coaching reins of the world champion St. Louis Hawks; assisting Buddy Blattner in the Hawks* radio broadcasts, incidentally, is the redoubtable band saxist of by­gone days, JIM BUTLER '48. 
We made legitimate efforts to get through to JAMES A. DACEY, EDWARD A. DESLOGE, LEO 
S. DOANTI, JR., PAUL W. KANE, DR. JOHN 
B. MEYERS, WILLLUkf J. MURPHY, ROBERT 
N. PALLARDY, and PHILIP A. WINTER III, but to no avail. Sorry, fellows, but please let us hear from you. 
REQUIESCAT — Through the Alumni Office we have learned of the death of Mrs. Patrick Maher, mother of JOHN F. MAHER, La Mesa, Calif.; please remember her In your prayers. 
INCOME TAX DEDUCTION DEPF.—JACK ZILLY, muscular blond aide to TERRY BREN­NAN, and Mrs. Z. recently welcomed thar sixth child, a boy, and now things are all evened up 3 and 3. 
And Eric Lenon Diamond entered the world on the Feast of the Assumption, the son of \Ir. and 


Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 55 
Mrs. ARTHUR M. DIAMOND of South Bend; he 
joins brothers Arthur Jr., 3, and David, 3, in the 
family. .Art. partner in the Diamond & Miller Ij>v 
firm, was a Dome .Award winner in our senior 
year, many of you will recollect. 
Speaking of Dome Award winners, how 'bout a 
word or two from the other three? In case they 
themselves don't remember who thc>' arc, we »vant 
lo hear from FRANK GRIMALDI, CHARLIE 
PATTERSON, and Class Pr^:x>- JOHN MASTRAN­
GELO. 
BA.VDHURA CALLING — From BROTHER 
IVAN DOL.\N, C.S.C.: "Thanks for the help you 
have givsn us so far; more will be gratefully ac­
cepted. Liked your suggestion to make DON KER­
STEN an honorarv- member of the class. Tell BIG 
JOHN .MASTRANGELO I vote for Don, too. 
"FATHER FRANK McFARLAND just dropped 
in. I gave him THE ALUMNUS so he could read 
tlie '47 news. By the way, he might be seeing 
you all soon. This is hb year to go to the States 
for • a wcll-camcd rest. He's been over here seven 
years now. ^lay be leaving in Oct. or Nov.*' 
Those of you ivho get THE BENGALESE will be happy to sec Brother Ivan beaming happily as THE MOST REV. LEO L. GRANER, C.S.C., Ardibishop of Dacca, blesses the Brothers' new residence at Bandhura. 

NEW .ADDRESS CORNER—The following have changed mailing addresses since the last issue: ^VALTER S. Bn'ENOUR; KEMN P. CARLEY; THO.\L\S L. DUFFY; RICH.ARD E. HAGGERT\', JR.; CHARLES J. JOINER; JA.MES W. KELLY; GEN. GEORGE C. KENNEY (our Commence­ment speaker, now with SAC at Andrews Field); JOHN R. KLEE; JOHN H. LAUCK; LAW­RENCE J. L\*NCH; JOHN J. MCCOURT; MI­CH/\EL C. MCFADDEN, JR.; JOHN F. MAHER; ROBERT F. MERZ; RICHARD H. PEARSE; DR. ED\VARD J. POLFTOSKE; CAPT. JAMES E. QULVN; G\PT. WILLIA.M W. RUEVE; \VIL­
LI.\M, TRUSKA, JR.; SR. aVTHERINE THER­ESE (WELL.\LAN); CHARLES W. YAKEMONIS; ROBERT W. BURNS; ROBERT T. FANNING; JOHN F. FFTZHENRY; ROBERT H. GALL.V GHER; JOHN E. KLLVGER, JR.; JOHN F. LYNCH; J. EDWARD ^L•\DVAY; WILLIAM F. MARTIN; JOHN J. MYERS; GINO L. PUCCI; WILLIAM T. RAESE; THO.MAS G. TADROSS; DONALD L. >\'HrrE: LUIS V. BELTRANENA; JOH N a DILLON; ROBERT A. FOOS; THOMAS L. MCMAHON; JAMES V. O'­B R1E N; CHARLES A. ROTH; OTTO A. SHANDER, JR.; ROBERT F. WELCH; WIL­LI.\M J. WISHLNG; JACK D. ALEXANDER; WILLIAM BUDD; JOHN F. BURKE; JAMES T. ' CARLIN; D.ANIEL DOWNEY, JR.; DR. WIL­LUM J. DUNN; ALVIN B. FEUER; DR. \ML­LIA.M H. GARNER, JR.; JA.MES R. LONG; JOHN H. .MERRYM.\N; JAMES D. OWXN; DANIEL R. POL.ASKI; JAMES E. VANDER­BOSCH, and VERNON R. WINTER. 
Since this is the final ALUMNUS edition of 
1958, let me express the earnest hope that all of 

you and yours have a happy Tflianksgivins, a joyous Christmas, and a peaceful New Year. Oh yes. . .for your first New Year's resolution may I suggest: 
"WRITE TO THE HARD-WORKING A.VD FRUSTRATED CLASS SECRETARY SO ^tY CL.ASS.MATES AROUND THE WORLD WILL KNOW WHAT I'.M UP TO THESE D,AYS.^'­
Amen. 

From the Alumni Office: TOM DUFFY has become associated with the stockbroker firm of Merrill, L^Tich, Pierce, Fenncr & Smith. Tom has moved to Macon, Georgia, where his address is 233 Corbin .Avenue, Apt, A-I. He is training in New York from Sept. 15 to Dec­15 and was expecting to get down to Baltimore for the Na\->* game, the first Notre Dame football game he's had a chance to sec in eleven years. While on duty xvith the U. S. Sixth Fleet in the Miditerrancan this past summer Professor MARSHALL SMELSER met Lieut. GER.ALD C. FIELD, now operations officer of the destroyer-tender Shenandoah, part of the amphibious forces during the landings in Lebanon.* 
1 940 Herman A. Zitt 635 Belmont Park, North Daj*ton, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: Surpassing anything in the fictional heroics of Holl>-wood is the saga of BERNIE LYNCH of 
56 Notre Dame Alujnnus, November, 1958 
RAY T. MILLER, JR., '51 
Man on the run 
The youngest president of a multi-million dollar corporation in Cleveland and cerr^aps in the United States is Ray T. Miller^ Jr., recently named to head Cleveland Broad­casting, Inc.j which operates radio stations WERE, AM and FM. ­
The 29-year-oId native Clevelander at­tended St. Ann Grammar School, and St. Ignatius High School, both in Cleveland, before entering Notre Dame. 
Out of the six years since his graduation, the first was spent serving as an infantr}*man in the U. S. Army. Since 1952, Ray has built an impressive record in the business world. In addition to heading Cleveland Broadcasting, Inc., he is the Vice Presi­dent of the Fugazy Travel Bureau, Vice President of Ace Cigarette Company, Vice President of Fiberglass-Ohio, Inc., and a Director of Searles Lake Chemical Corp. of Califomia. 
On the civic side, Ray has been elected Representative to the Ohio General As­sembly, ser\*ing since 1953, and is presently the Democratic nominee to serve in the Ohio State Senate. He is vice-chairman of the Cleveland Mental Health Association, and is a member of the Citizens League. 
In addition to being President of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland, Ray is a 4th Degree Knight of Columbus, and a member of the Fraternal Order of Eagles. 
He is a member of St. Ann's Parish, and of the Don Bosco Guild of the Catholic Charities Association. Ray is married to the former Eileen Bemier of Cleveland, who at­tended St. Mary's College and v/ho is cur­rently head of the local St. Mary's Alumni club. They have four children: two sons, Ray Thomas III and Michael, and two daughters, Kathleen and Sharon Ann. 

Latrobe, Pa. Until the spring of 1958 Bernard J. Lynch was comfortably situated, the father of fiva children, extremely active in the Pituburgh area on behalf of Notre Dame and the Church. On Good Friday he was in an automobile' accident which resulted in the amputation of both his legs. He was hospitalized in New York City, and the doctors were worried, about his inorale. But the Foundation's BILL MURPHY, '38. recounts: "I have been in touch with Bernie on a few occasions and found that he iS' a tremendous person. When Bud (New York Club President STEPHEN MUL­,VEY, '5IJ told rac about his injury, sometime in May, I called at the hospital with the thought of doing a Christian thing and cheering up the young man. Actually; the reverse happened. I got a spiritual lift just speaking with this young man and his wife. His attitude and his approach, his incredible faith conWnced mc that this young man will make it in spite of his tragic accident. He b a really, wonderful, person, and I enjoyed his company enormously." 
In July Alumni Secretary JIM ARMSTRONG, ^25, heard about Bernie from REGIS LAVELLE, '27, of Pittsburgh. Jim relayed the latest developments to friends and classmates in the New York area. Bernie was sufTcring from an infection that slowed up the fitting of artificial limbs. He had been moved to the Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Bellevuc Hospital, 400 East 34th Street, New York 16, N. Y., where he had a col­lapsible wheel chair and could go out for rides. 
Bill Murphy replied: "It wasn't until he (Bernie) moved to his present location at Bellevuc that we could make any arrangements to take him out of the hospital. I' spoke with him yesterday and he appeared in fine spirits. Bud and I,' together with TONY DiBARI (vice president of the N. Y. Club), are now planning to take him to a night ball game and, if he can make it, to a picnic." 
Most of us Were unaware ot it, but Bemic Lynch was present in spirit at the reunion. He would enjoy hearing from classmates who missed his phy­sical presence. 
Professor RALPH THORSON, known to sur\iv­ing Savoyards as "Major General" or "Lord Chan­cellor" Thorson, wrote that "seeing JERRY HEK-KER's picture in the last number prompted many vi%id memories. 
"A sh'ght vital recapitulation may be in order.'' ' It is, Ralph, and don't let it happen again. 
He continues; "After leaving N.D. with a Master of Science degree in 1949 I went to the School of Hygiene and Public Health at Johns Hopkins. Three years later, a few more letters—an Sc.D. in Hygiene degree. That fall I married Margaret Vorth of Baltimore, and that year I v\'as an in­structor at the Scliool of Hygiene at J.H.U. In 1953 wc moved to Auburn, Alabama, where I was an associate professor of parsitology in the School of Veterinary- Medicine. Three years and two daughters (Jane, now 5, and Kristin Inger, now 2) later, I accepted a position in the research divi­sion of American Cynamid Co. at Pearl River, N.Y, After about two years and a third daughter (Julianne—I plus), I returned to teaching at the veterinary school at Alabama Polytechnic Institute (Auburn) as professor of parasitology. 
"While here before, wc saw HARRY REICH frequently and WIB MARSHALL occasionally. Un­derstand Wib was at N.D. for a year after wc left Auburn. Saw GEORGE BARISCILLO ('44) in 
N.Y. Wish wc could get that "bus riding" crowd with the winter's experience at Sheboygan together again." 
REV. EDWARD J. DOUGHERTY is now spreading the Notre Dame gospel among the youth of Our Lady of Victories Parish, 24 Main Street, SayreWlIc, N.J. 
According to the Portland Oregonian, BOB FRANZ attended a seminar for senior bank officers at the Harvard Graduate School of Business the week of August 18. The seminar was sponsored by the Independent Bankers Association, of which Bob is a vice president, and conducted by the Institute of Financial Management. BILL MEA­GHER went to the Pacific Coast Banking School at the University of Washington from August 25 to September 6. Bill took the first year of a three year course in commercial banking. 
Because it involves a distinguistied classmate, we reprint this social note from the Chicago Tribune column "in the Wake of the News," by DAVE CONDON, '45 (August 27, 1958): 
"Our society department reluctantly has relin­quished righu to all stories concerning the im­
pending marriage of ZYGMONT PIERRE CZ.\. ROBSKI, the scholar and sportsman who, like Lin­coln, belongs to the ages. , . .Czarobski will de­sert the bachelor ranks Saturday (Aug. 30) in Aurora, where he is an innkeeper and a 280-pound novelty pointed out to tourists. . . .Male friends who arc married have attempted to dissuade Zig from yielding his freedom, hut he sneers at 'em: "Now you tell mc I*m crazy! Where were all you fatherly friends when I %vas signing a contract with the Chicago Rockets football team? Where were all you guys when old Zig wxs an independent candidate for alderman in a Democratic ward?'. . . . So Zig h set to be married, and it will be a gala occajion. . . .The event already has caused a boom in the formal wear rental industry-, with one Loop shop adding 12 men—probably tentmakers to tailor duds for Czarobski, .MOOSE (GEORGE) CONNOR, -MOOSE (ED) KR.\USE, .\fOOSE (BILL) FISCHER, .MOOSE (MARTY) BRUTZ, and others in the ofHctal party. . . .Harry Creigh­ton docs not have to rent his uniform for the nuptials, as he has a permanent one for Rotar\­luncheons. 
"The round of prc-wedding parties began Tues­day evening, when the Aurora crowd, the South Bend crowd and the old Notre Dame crowd as­sembled at Gene Powalski's soutli side steak house. . . .We assure Miss Duris Elenor Noetzel, the bride-elect, that the Powalski party will break up in time for Zigg>- to race to the altar. . . .Oh, it was a wonderful party while you tasted. . . .The session was called to order by .MOOSE CO-VNOR, former Chicago Bears* star who is at his inimitable best when stoked up with Polish sausage and simi­lar groceries. . . .Connor recalled that Zigg>- not only had been a summa cum laudc (George speaks Spanish fluently) graduate, but had been a leader who made decisions for the football team. .. .Yes, many in the audience remembered, in 1946 Zigg\­made the decision that players should ask $35, in­stead of $25, for their tickets to the Army game. . . -Then Connor introduced Zig's old Notre Dame coach, FRANK LEAHY. 
"Frank Leahy recalled that once he had to take his unbeaten 1&46 team to task, telling them: *You lads know about as much about football as a tugli school freshman team would know. You don't even know the fundamentals. So we're going to start 
. from the beginning. . . .right from the founda­
' tion.' . . .Then, Leahy remembered, he picked a football off the Cartier field turf and said: 'Lads we're starting with the basic fundamentals. This object you see here is a football!' . . .There had 
I been a second's silence, Leahy remembered, until Czarobski spoke up from the back: 'Could yuh take it a little slower, coach?' 
"Finally, at Tuesday night's parly, Czarobski ^poke. Nobody had been waiting for this except 
1^ Czarobski. But Zig spoke well and tuld friends he didn't want them to come to the wedding loaded down with big gifts. . . ."Money will do,' said Zig. . . .Later, Zig got this old roommate in the corner and said: 'Give this Powalski party a go<id press, and mention the nice guvs who were here: Like TED BUDYNCIWICZ> FRED TA­DROWSKI, ART TOMCZ.\K, Sig Sakowicz and Frank Leahy. That's spelled L-E-.\-H-Y'." 
While we're on the society page we should men­tion that JERRY HEKKER, the Hackcnsack flash, has bought a ring for a Manhattan miss named Corrinc Abbazia, and the nuptials arc set for the Saturday after Easter, .April 4, 1959. The redhead has spent the summer between the Bergen Record copy desk and part-lime chores as a dramatic critic, reviewing celebs in the straw hat theaters. 
According to an August 28 dispatch from Hong Kong. DR. TOM DOOLEY has completed prepa­rations for his third medical foray into the jun­gles of Southeast /Vsia. *'The first part of our work will be pretty rugged," he reported, ''since it in­volves a trip by jeep from Saigon, Vietnam, to Bangkok, Thailand, to Vientiane, Laos; a ilistance ot ahmtt 90O miles on rough dirt roads, llirough jungles and across unbridged streams. 
''In these cities," Tom continued, "we shall con­tact government officials to arrange the details necessary for the establishment of medical programs in these countries which will be sponsored by MEDICO, an institute dedicated to bringing medi­cal assistance to the sick in remote parts of the world." 
Tom will personally select a site tit Laos for the first MEDICO-sponsored hospital and i-linic, similar to his dispensary at Nam Tha near the Chinese border, devoted to treating the sick '"sim­ply because they arc sick" and training indigenous personnel in nidimentarj" medicine. 
Very Rev. Brian Egan, O^.B., M.A. '58, (left) and frient]. Father Brian, president of St. Bernard's College was Bob Hope's guest for a pcrfomiance of the musical "Roberta'* in St. Louis, Mo. 
JUNE I2-I3-I4 
194 9 J"^" Walker 
" '^' 826 Wing St. Elgin, Illinois 
Tilt- follouiiig from GEORGE A. PATTERSON, JR., formerly of the Commerce Forum, planniiig to leave his home, 3 Claremniil Place, Cranford, .V. J.: 
"In glancing at the Aug.-Sept., 1958, Issue of 
the ALU.MNUS. page 60, 1944 Class, I noticed 
quite a fetv N. D, alumni were working at Repub­
lic .-Vviation Corporation, Farmingdale, Long Island, 
New York. 
"Normally this item would not have been ver>" significant to mc since I have been working for the Ford Motor Company the last five years in various Industrial and labor relations capacities. However, just last Monday, Aug. 18, I joined Re­public as their labor relations manager, .heedless to say, I was very surprised and happy to sec that a lot of fellow alumni would be with mc. I have already met JOHN RYAN and R. TOUHEY and am looking fonvard to meeting the rest of the N. D. gang. 
"I now have three boys, George " III, Timothy and Gregor>', and two girls, Clonics and Afarj-. My wife Laurie and I arc now house hunting again (fourth time in two years) on Long Island. .Anyone interested In a house In New Jersey? 

'"I thought this note might be of some interest to you, John, for the next issue of the ALU.MNUS. If it isn't I am sure you will agree thai the .ALUM­NUS is a great help In keeping tabs on evcr>'onc and it certainly provided mc with a pleasant sur­prise." 
BOB CONNELLY, newly located at the Hotels Reservation Center, 6363 Wilshire Blvd., Los An­geles, contributes this: 
•'Figure your column could stand a little beefing up for the next ALUMNUS issue so will belt out a couple of quick lines. 
"I have recently moved to Los Angeles where my partner and I have opened a second office. \Vc originally started our hotel rescr\'ations business in San Francisco and have made the move doivn here to get our share of the Southern California business. So far it looks like a good move. 
"On June 7 of this year I took as my bride Dorothy Quinn, a Pan-American stewardess from Crestwood, N.Y. We were married at the Carmel Mission In Carmel, California. 
**Samc other news bits: KEVIN 0*SHEA is now in the insurance business in his native San Fran­cisco. . . .KEVIN H.ARRIG.AN is a sales repre­sentative for the Zellerbach Paper Co. in S. F. . . . LARRY HUESER has transferred from Texas and Is now selling insurance in and around S. F. 
"Hope all goes well with you and will be look­ing fonvard to making the trek to the lOth Re­union In 1959." 
From the Alumni Office: 
DR. STEPHEN J. GALLA writes: "I have just received notice of my appointment as Research Fel­low in Anesthesia, Harvard Medical School, and Assistant In Surgery at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital for the year 1958-59." 
JOHN J. MARGET is president of the Keokuk County State Bank in Sigourney, Iowa. His fam­ily includes four children: Mike, age 7; John. 5^2; Steven, 3'/^, and Susan, approaching six months. 
J. RICHARD LAMERE, labor editor and vet­eran reporter of the Boston Traveler, spent 16 days In .August as public information officer for '"Operation Deployment," a reserve exercise ot the Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean. Dick and his wife Louise have two children, a son, Richard^ 2Vs, and a daughter, Lynctte, 5 months. 
Congratulations to THOMAS R. FRANCIS, pro­moted to sales manager of the Toledo branch of Owens-Illinois Glass Company, and to MARTIN E. ZERNICK, appointed \-ice-president for manufac­turing at New York Transformer Company*s plants in Alpha and Phlllipburg, New Jersey. ­
10C A Richard F. Hahn 
•^^ ^ 6930N. OdeU Chicago 31, IHinois 
From the Alumni Office: 
REV. FRANCIS JOSEPH PHELAN. C.S.C., as­sociate editor of Ave Maria, authored a tonguc-in­cheek piece in The New Yorker, .August 2, in which he imagines his spiritual biography as it might be written by some future chronicler. En­titled simply "Slor>- of My Life," it will probably be anthologizcti as a rare modem specimen of ec­clesiastical humor. 
Long overlooked is the news that GEORGE F. LABDIK returned home to Bethlehem, Pa., last spring, much improved in health after a long convalescence at the U. S. Veterans* hospital in Lebanon, Pa. After graduation George enrolled at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland, in pursuit of a doctorate in English Literature. ^VhIIc a stu­dent there, he suffered a nervous collapse. 
DON MACHADO has been separated from the Army, but at last report he was still wih it In a civilian capacity. Don is with the legal division at Schofield Barracks on Oahu, Hawaii. The Machados' first child, Mary Julie, was born last January 26. 
TIMOTHY H. HANRAH.AN is no longer in El Paso, Tex. Recently he resigned his position as chief engineer of the propulsion branch at White Sands Proving Ground to accept a position on the technical staff of Ramo-Wool ridge Corporation. Patrick Air Force Base, Florida, attached to their flight test operations office at Cape Canaveral. 
Missileman GENE THIL.MAN and wife Lois, liv­ing at 2529 Benedict, South Bend, now have three children, Judy 7, Jeffrey, 5, and Janet Ann, born last Mav 15. 
THOMAS L. CARTER has joined Locwi & Co.. Milwaukee investment firm, as manager of its municipal bond department. 
IQC I Robert J. Klingcnbergcr 
•^* " 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. Wayne, Indiana 
FRANK HOLLER and his wife, Anne, announced the arrival of Charles Anthony on June 28, 1958. 
Saw DAN GRACE at Notre Dame recently and Dan reported the following: hb iiddress is 406 Aca­cia Road, Scotch Plains, New Jersey. He is a mechanical engineer with Esso Standard, is mar­ried, has two daughters, and is currently President of the Central New Jersev Club. Dan also reported that TOM GILMARTIN is still with R.C.A. in Morristown, N. J., and batching it. JACK O'BRIEN is selling for the Pacific Valve Co., is living' in the South and is married. MICKEY 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ November, 1938 57 
NOONAN is the Production Control man with 
U. S. Timcx Watch and has Hvc children. BOB CLEMENS is living in Chicago, has four children and is studying law. CORKY DESMOND has three cliildren, two boys, is living in Charleston. West \1rginia, and is with Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Conipanv. 
JOHN JOYCE, G214 E. Marshall Place, Tnlsa 15, Oklahoma, writes that on .April I9th John Michael was born. This makes two boys and two girls (twins). .Also, John writes that he is stilt Chief Engineer for Braden Steel Corporation. In his letter, he reported that FR/\NK LEARY Is in Washington, D. C. and is a Nav-al .Architect with the Bureau of Ships. 
Alito, while 31 the CInb Presidents Council, I saw RAY MILLER, who is President of the Cleve­land Club. Ray is President of the Cleveland Broadcasting Company, WERE, and Is Vice-Presi­dent of the Fugazy Travel Bureau of Ohio, Inc., which has oflices and agents throughout the world. Ray has four children. 
.Also, ivhile at Notre Dame, I leanicd that JACK CORYN Is still In Moline, Illinois and is City At­torney there. .Are yon sllll single. Jack? 
Ftoni the Alunmi Office: Congratulations to RICH.ARD McCARTHY, re­cently made audltoi of the .Aurora, Illinois, Beacon News. JAMES P. KOHN, on .Notre Dame's chemical engineering faculty since 1955. ser\'ed during the summer as a consultant at the Whiting Research Laboratories of the Standard Oil Company (Indi­ana). He has an M.S. from Michigan and a Ph.D. from Kansas. JAMES H. ORIESMER received a Ph.D. in mathemallcs from Princeton last June, while two classmates received M.B.A. degrees. JAMES F. O'RIELEY at Harvard and HAROLD. F. SCHRECK, JR., at .N.Y.U. 
1952 ^^^' ^ ^"ch 
Board of Trade BIdg. 
^\TieeIing, West Virginia From the .Alumni Office: 
ROBERT JOSEPH DUFFY received a Ph.D. from tlie Stale Universitv of Iowa in June, while FRANCIS X. DRISCOLL took a .M.E.E, at :<.r.V, and JOHN D. KINVILLE took an M.B.A. at Harvard. 
In August two men from the class became mas­ters of arts. D.AVID C. WILMOT at Iowa and JOSEPH P. 0'BRIE.N at Ohio State. 
GERrVRD HvVNLEY, an engineer at Sperry Gy­roscope Co., Great Neck, N.Y., was co-author of a paper delivered at a national Symposium at Stanford Univcrrity, California. 
CARL F. EIBERGER, using his science-law com­bination as a corporation attorney in Denver with such clients as Mountain States Bell Telephone, passed through the campus in June on his honey­moon. 
PAUL FUN.AB.ASHl, who took both M.S. and Ph.D. degrees at Notre Dame, is now a chemlstrv* professor at Nanzan University. Nagoya, Japan. Recently he married Miss Jonemoto Fujiko of New York in the university church In Nagoya. 
1 953 Thomas W. Reedy 
• '"^ ^ 337 Wagner Road Northficld, Illinois 
TOM DEGE dropped a note saying that he and his wife Barbara are now living in Madison Heights, Michigan. They have two children. Kathy. age 2, and Mike, age 3, and have just moved Into a beautiful n.*w home. 
CHRIS FALKENSTEIN has been recently mar­
ried and is now working with \Ve5tinghousc In 
Pittsburgh. 
GEORGE HIGGINS now has two children and 
Is IKing in Kansas City, where George is with 
the Kioger Co. 
DICK PETRARRCA Is living on the South Side of Chicago and is working as an attorney In the offices of the State's Attorney in Chicago. 
BILL .MOTZEL has received his M.A. in Elec­trical Engineering and is now employed at Mc­Donnell Aircraft in the Engineering Department. Bill and his wife have three children — two girls and one boy. 
PAUL GABIER was married August 8tli to Phyl­lis .Ann Jones of Saint Paul, Minnesota. Paul is 

58 Notre Dame Alumnus^ November^ 1958 
Imng in Minneapolis, where they will reside after their return from the honevmoon. Paul Is emploved bv FoIe\- .Mfg. Co. 
BOB .MILLENB.ACH is the Sales .Manager of Millcnbach Motor Sales of Detroit and recently celebrated the birth of his second daughter. 
JLM P.ATTERSON is in his resldeno" at the Cook County Hospital of Chicago. 
DAN COLLINS was recently married and Is Interning at the Resurrection Hospital in Chicago. Dan is tentatively planning on continuing his medi­cal studies at Harvard, although this ts not definite at the present time. 
We were all saddened to hear of the tragic death of the parents and brothers of TO.M LORSON In an automobile accident in Kansas this past August. 
ED GRAHAM, who incidentally, married the sister of PAT MON'TROY, is employed at the Illinois Bell Telephone Co. and Is living in Chicago. Ed has two girls at present with a baby expected very soon. (.Another girl, Ed?) 
D.AVE L^\UER.MAN recently received his M..A. In English from Notre Dame. Dave and his wife and son have been living In Vctville while he com­pleted his masters. Tliey expected tlicir .second child on September 2. Dave will start work on his Ph.D. in English at Indiana Universitv this fall. 
PHIL CLEMENS of Ft. Wayne, still a member of that increasingly more select club—Bachelorhood —announces that he Is "strictly a\-ailable." (.Attn.: Any single gals who might somehow stumble into the depths of this cloistered column). Phil is working with his brother administering the afTairs of the family foundrv business in Ft. Wavnc. 
TO.M KRUG is employed with IBM In'Patter­son, New Jersey, where he is married with one child. Tom and his wife expect another blessi-d event sometime after the first of the year. (Just too late to claim a tax refund!) 
JERRY KELLY Is married with one boy and lives in Detroit. He is employed with the invest­ment banking firm of Kenower-McArthur Co. 
GEORGE BAILEY is living in Grossc Point, Michigan, and practicing law in Detroit. By the time this is published, George will have been mar­ried. 
HARRY KELLY Is married and living in De­troit, where he Is working with General Motors. 
BRI.AN KELLY Is burning up Hollywood. He is appearing as the "Man of Distinction*' In national advertisements. Has been seen in the Chexy, L&M cigarette and Clorox ads. Brian, and Harry's brother Li\RRY KELLY were married on the day of our reunion week end. 
ANDY WALSH Is a C.P.A. in Si. Louis, where he and his wife have one child and arc expecting another. 
VINCE RAY.MOND is In the J.A.G. of the Air Force and is currently stationed In Europe where he and his wife and one child reside. 
JOE BARAN was married May 17th In Detroit. Joe :? the \'ice President in Charge of Research and Development at his father's foundry* — Motor Machinery- Co. — In Detroit. 
DON HICKS is in the investment business with BIyth and Co. in Detroit. Don Is married with one girl. Also with Blvth & Co. in Chicago Is TERRY CAREY . 
BILL KILMINSTER is associated with Maybrook Associates, a new Insurance firm. Tlie firm has two olfictrs—one In New York and one in New Jer­sey. Bill was recently married. 
E.MORY DAKOSKE, formeriy in the beer busi­ness In Detroit, is now employed by the Bohn Aluminum Co. as a property accountant. Em Is married and has three children—two boys and one girl. Emorv* Is giving fair warning to all that his son Chris Is a future N.D. football great. 
JOHN FISH Is married with two children and is currently practicing law In Dearborn, Mich. 
MARTY WEHNER is living In Oak Park, Illi­nois, where he is married with one daughter. Marly Is employed by Westlnghonse In Chicago— hcavx- industrial equipment sales division. 
TOM FOOTE is living in Salina, Kansas, and working on the local paper where, among his many duties, he writes a weekly column. 
MIKE GODFREY Is single, living in Minneapo­lis and active In life insurance. Mike reports that he sees L.ARRY 0*MARA In Minneapolis from time to time. Larrv' is working with ^linneapolls Honey­well as Ass't Director of Research. The O'Maras are expecting this fall. 
JIM ROGERS is in the life insurance business at St, Paul and Is president of the N. D. Club of the Twin Cities. 
GEORGE McCOURT is working in Detroit for the .American Seating C^. as a salesman. He and his wife have one child—a boy. 
JERRY SMITH Is practicing law In Hammond. Indiana. Jerrv* received his law degree from Miami University Law School. The Smiths are expecting in the early Fall. 
TOM O'BRIEN is married (and how—listen to this) and has five children: Kathleen. 4; Tommy. 2; Mike, 2; Colleen, I, and Patrick two months. The names couldn't be more Irish cither. Tom is Presi­dent of an auto agenc>' in Indianapolis. 
A ver\* nice note from R:\LPH ARGEN'S wife says: DOMINIC GENTILE Is now a Medical resi­dent at Mt. Alto Hospital in Washington, D.C., and Rf\LPH ARGEN Is now a .Medical resident at the Edward J. Meyer Hospital in Buffalo, New York. The Argcns were married October 19, 1957, and expect an addition to their family late this summer. 
TIM KETT is now working with the Biennan Agenc>" of the Fidelity Life Ins. Co. of Philadel­phia. Pennsylvania. 
LOU BASSO is living In Detroit with his wife and child—Mary Angela, born July 30. 1957. Lou is now practicing law in Detroit. While he was In the Air Force Lou was stationed on Okinawa as an Ass't Judge Advocate. 
DON BERRY writes to report the birth of their second child, Denisc Marie, born on June 3. Dcnisc's big sister Is Dona Mar>-, age 15 months. After being released from the Air Force last year, Don took a civil service position as an aeronautical research engineer. He Is now a civilian employee of the .Air Force at the same base where he sen'ed on active duty—In Edwards, California. 
Planning a Fall wedding In Burlington, Iowa, is 

Classes of 1950, 1951, 1952 
1953, 1954, 1955, 1956, 1957 
NOTE 

Thanks from the Alumni Office and the Foundation! In the report of participation by Classes in the Anaual Alumni Fund, as of September 1, 1958, all of you are above the general participation average.* (This general average, 22.7%, is low and distressing, but it is most encouraging to see your ou-n fine response.) Keep it up — remember, the amount is secondary. James E. Armstrong Alumni Secretary *High is 1953, second is a tie betiveen 1951 and 1954. 
JOE RIDGE. Joe is a sales representative and personnel manager of the Wingard Co. of Burling­ton. Iowa, manufacturers of TV antennas. 
DICK WAGNER sent a letter from where he Is stationed in the Army in Frankfurt. Germany. Dick reports that KERWIN FULTON is stationed near him in Germany and he sees hint often. After his Army service expires, Dick plans to be­gin the practice of law in BulTalo, New York. 
ROGER J. BR^VUN is now associated with an investment firm in Milwaukee—Loewi and Co. 
BRIAN DUFF is living in E\-anston with his wife and employed at the Continental Insurance Co. in Chicago. 
Our column is only as good as the news we re­ceive. We live on your letters—so sit down now and drop us a note. 
From the Alumni OHice: Deepest sympathy to Mr. and Mrs. JOHN COR­RIGAN on tlie loss of their infant son. In September JOHN PETERS was named chief assistant prosecutor of Kalamazoo County, Michi­gan. Former N. D. golf captain TO.M .MATEY %vas in the winning twosome at the South Deud Country Club invitational in August, and University public relations man DON ROSS has won a couple of local tournaments since his reunion triumph. In June FRxVNK SANT.AXGELO took an LL.B. at St. Johns, Brooklyn, while CORNELIUS O'RE­CAN won an .\LB.A. at X.Y.U. August saw GIL­BERT CORRIGAX awarded a Ph.D. at Ohio State. 
JUNE 12-13-14 
CLASS ' 
OF , 
•wi»^ 

1 OCA George A. Pflaum, Jr. 
• ^'^ 1705 Harvard Blvd. Dayton 6, Ohio 
The response to my request in the last issue i)f the ALUMNUS for some widespread assistance in organizing our reunion next June has been ver%* gratifying, llie organizational program is just get­ting off ihe ground and I still could use the as­sistance of all of you. There are a few difTereni areas where each of yon can be most helpful. First of all, I would appreciate your latest address. Merely joi it on a postcard and forward it to me at the above address. Secondly, I could still use some interested parties in most of the big cities and the other larger metropolitan areas that will be willing to act as the co-ordinator for that area. Please don't be shy. I am relying on you. Send me your name and I'll include it in our organiza­tional structure. Thirdly, I ask each and ever\' one of you to write your roommate for the four years you were in attendance at the University. Merely remind him of our pending reunion the week end of June 12 and. of course, let liiiii know that you are planning to attend and encourage him to do likewise. If this routine is followed I see no reason why ever\'one will not have sufficient knowledge of the event and also sntHcient induce­ment to attend. 
At the same time, I am still open for any and all suggestions that yon have regarding the week­end or regarding any means of stimulating greater attendance. Tliis can bs an even greater week end than that reported by the reunion class this year— with your help, interest and a few minutes work. 
Swinging into today's mail I am confronted with a verv interesting letter from 1st Ll. OTTO K. HILBERT, A03Q46987, 7102nd Support Sqdn., APO 207, U.S. Forces, New York, N. Y., who passes on the following: 
"Some news from Germany about a '54 gradu­ate of Notre Dame, who, before now, was so close to Notre Dame attending Law School that he did not feel he could contribute any news to the column. First and foremost, I would like to advertise tlie fact that I was married on the 14th of June, 1958, to the former Mar\- Rachel Shine of Goldsboro, North Carolina. Rach was graduated on June 4, 1958, from Mero'hurst College in Erie, Pennsylvania. I took leave from my station and flew the 5,000 miles back to North Carolina in order to get married. After the wedding, wc honeymooned in South Carolina and then flew back to Munich, Germany, where wc arc now taking an extended honeymoon. We are located in a schun apartment, which overlooks the quaint Ba\-arian village of Erding, located a few miles north of Munich. I am In the Judge Advocate Division of the Air Force. I work with one other attorney and together wc legally ser\-ice about 4,000 air force personnel throughout Bavaria. Tlic job Is unique, as well as interesting, since all personnel with whom we deal are located on or around what are now German Air Force bases. The work-week goes by fast and the week ends faster, since the Alaps are within a two-hour drive and Munich Is just around the comer. I certainly am not nervous in the service! The remalnliig year of my tour in the ser\-icc will be, I think, one of the most in­teresting of my life. One thing further, George, I received my first copy in a year of Notre Dame ALUMNUS this week. Several of my good friends who were too lazy to write were "told on"' in the issue and it was enjoyable to hear that they were dolnj well. The only Notre Dame .•Miimtius whom I have heard of since coming to Europe Is &\RL ECK. He Is working as a Judge Advocate at Toul-Rosairc .A.F.B., France. Fiom what I hear, he is building a fine reputation as a trial altornev." 
Dr. R.\Y-MOND SALVINO, D.D.S., informs that he was entering the Air Force in September and expects to be stationed in Rapid City. South Dako­ta. Ray graduated from the University of Illinois in June but feels his real claims to fame are his daughters, Kathy and Susie, two and one year re­spectively. .Mar>- Ann and TO.M C.\.MPBELL are rejolcin.-' ovot- the arrival of Kathleen Mar\- last May. Tom had the good fortune of winning an IBM Sales Contest which rewarded him and his wife with an all expense trip to the Brussells World Fair in September. Their mailing address other than Brussells is 2 Locust Road, Cooper Farms, Wilmtnglon 8, Delaware. 
JOE STUEVER dropped me an Interesting let­ter which I forward to you In full as follows. "Since graduation, way back then, I've worked at DfMiglas x\ircraft Co., Tulsa, Oklahoma (1954-1955), where I worked with JOHN SWIFT, also Class '54, and then I was a USAF fly boy from April, 1955. to January-. 1958. I was at March AFB, Calif, with FRED PAXTON (he got out too and went back to Kentucky In October, 1957). I'm now working for ACF Industries Nuclear Products Divblon In Albuquerque, New Mexico. I'm a Liaison Engineer to Los Alamos Scientific Laboratories concerned with advanced reactor designs. Beautiful country' and interesting work. My phone number is a\'ail­able by calling information in xMbuquerquc. I'm moving into a new home soon. Mail can be ad­dressed to 3018 Solano Drive, X.E. Oh, yes. In the Interim of the last four years I have acquired a wife, Joan, and two sweet Ihtle daughters, Pa­tricia and Ann Mlchelc, ages 3 and 2 years re­spectively. Xo boys yet??? You may be sure you and any other classmate will be welcome in Al­buquerque and any help or hlnderance I can give will be given with pleasure." 
DOX CUDDIHEE Informed that his third son, Lavin Paul, arrived last June to join his brothers, Brendan and Don, Jr. Don has been with Anheu­ser-Busch, Inc., one year as an architect. His home is at 10221 Tappan Drive, 5:. Louis County 15, Missouri. 
I am pleased to pxss on the following informa­tion from an attractively engraved invitation. "Mr. and Mrs. Edward De Pascale request the honour of vonr presence at the marriage of their daughter Anne to .Mr. WILLIA.M ARTHUR .MEYER on Saturday, the twenty-sixth day of July, Xlneteen hundred and fifty-eight at eleven o'clock. Saint Brigid's Roman Catholic Church, Meadville, Penn­sylvania." Bill noted that he is a District Sales ^lauager for Great Lakes Lithograph Company. He may be reached at P.O. Box 1747, Pittsburgh 30, PemisyK'anla. 
This has been a busy summer as evidenced by the following additions. Phyllis and KEN BOUL^VY welcomed a daughter, Annette Marie the last of May. Elizabeth Imbriaco arrived about the same, time to JoAnne and JOE I.MBRIACO. Shortly thereafter, Mark William Bazany joined the Ac­counting firm of Frances and LEROY BAZ.-\XY at 3454 Xorth Lowell, Chicago 41, Illinois. By sneak­ing a look at one of PAT C/\RRICO*s letters to BILL GUILFOILE, which Bill fonvarded to mc, I can furnish the information on the following. Pat sums up his situation with *'While I've been blessed with good health, saddled uith ovenvhelm­ing bills (which I have kept in a brown lunch sack) and cramped by rising taxes, I have not been so fortunate as to run acioss a woman of genuine merit." WALT WAGNER is a partner In one of LouIsvIIIe^s prominent real estate firms deal­ing In commercial properties. RAY TILLEY is working with General Electric in California. RON MAZZOLI is studying law at the University of Louisville. JOHN READY Is engaged in the prac­tice of law with his father In Cleveland. 
.NHLT BEAUDINE, the official Secretary of the Xotrc Dame Club of Decatur, Illinois reports that married life is much to his liking and also reports a rather unique approach to the wedding In that he walked down the aisle to the tune of the .Notre Dame Victors- March. BOB WRIGHT, NED SEI.M and GEORGE HUBBARD were all in the wedding party. Milt reports that PETE SCHWENK Is engaged in the boat business in Washington, 
D.C. JOHN GROSSPIETSCH Is now with Pure Oil Company in Chicago doing market research work. The opening paragraph in TOM SHORT's letter that follows tvplfics so many of you. I need help! help! help! 
"'Sorry to flood you with so much mail, on such a continuous basis! Seriously, I'm the sorriest ex­cuse for a dependable correspondent that one can Imagine. However, I have called you on several cccasions from Wright-Patterson and failed to reach you, since that first talk some weeks ago. I made a trip to Rome, Xew York and spent an evening with PAT FOLEY last week. Had a very en­joyable visit and we hope to work out a plan for a trip to Europe in the near future. As I told you on the phone, my present assignment is in Kingston. New York, at the IBM Military Pro­ducts Division. Outside of the 35 mile trip to Stewart AFB fur airplanes, this has been a won­derful job. As of the first of July, I will be sta­tioned in Xew York City in the Electronics De­fense System Di\-isIon, 220 Church Street. I hate to leave an ideal spot like Kingston, but this should be an improvement. The basic job is to be a General's Aide and this will offer many good op­portunities to fly. The General is a top notch person and I'm sure I will enjoy the assignment, once I become accustomed to life in the big city. Several weeks ago I flew Into Colorado Springs and attempted to reach DICK SULLIVAN, but he is now stationed In Bloomlngton, Indiana. I have no other Information to pass on that would add to what I discussed with you on the telephone. I'm looking fon%'ard to renewing some old acquaint­ances in X'cw York City. Please give the address as mentioned above." 
JOHN POIRIER reported from the Ph>-slcs De­partment at Stanford University the following; **Dr. PAT .McDONOUGH recently received his MJ) . from the University of PennsyU'anIa and the day-after married Miss Marie PInca from his home town, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Thc>* honeymooned in Ber­muda. Dr. .\nKE McGR.\TH received his M.D. from the U. of Pennsylvania and Is interning at St. Charles Hospital in Toledo, Ohio. I got to visit with PHIL DICKERM.\N, his wife and two healthy kids In Calumet City, IIL Had a great time reminiscing about old times." 
RICH TIERNEY provided the following: "M you can see from the letterhead, I'm employed by Blyth & Co., Inc., which is, if not the largest, one of the largest investment banking houses in the country. I'm selling securities for them and really enjoy It. Ever>- day that passes presents a new challenge and it's one of those situations where you never stop learning. I'm also attending X.Y.U.'s Graduate School of Business Adminis­tration from which I hope to eventually get an MBA degree. j\s you've probably heard via the grapevine, I was married In October, 1955, and have two darling daughters — Barbara, 2, and Joanne, 7 months. Ginny and I have an apartment in Red Bank, X'cw Jersey, which is about 50 miles south of X'cw York. It's a very pleasant town and it's gf*^^' *** SCt away from the Xew York rat-race every evening and go home to a nice, quiet village. Ray is also married, has two daugh­ters, Kathy, who is about 16 months and Alicia, about 5 months. Ray is working for the Hanover Bonlc, lives in Red Bank and in his spare time (I) is going to Fordham I.aw School." 
JOE D'ANTONI, one of the sons of J. F.D'An­toni & Sons, Distributors, Gulf Oil Corporation Products, Natchez, Mississippi, reports all Is fine in the deep South. Joe and his wife, Zita, an­nounce the arri\-al of a prospective member of the Class of '80 in "Little" Joe, Jr. 
From RON SMITH I received the following: *'On May I of this year, I was transferred from 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 2958 59 
the Advertising Dept. to the position of Advertis­ing Specialist, in the Film Dept. Du Pont is a wonderful company to work for and I like my job ver>* much. You might he interested to know, if you don't already, that BRUCE FOX and JOE DEPINTO are also with Du Pont. Bruce is in the Treasurers Drpt. and the last I knew Joe Was working with the Elastomers Dept. Both arc here in Wilmington. At the recent .Vational Pack­aging Show, held at the Coliseum in New York City. I ran into two X.D. men in one day. While walking around to see what our competition was doing. I ran into DOUG TALBOT, who is a sales­man now for the Tcc-Pac Conipanv. Not iong after that who v*-alks by but PAUL FORSMANN . , . gi\"ing a big line to some poor cHcni. Paul is working for his father in the package-printing business. From what t could gather, they specialize in printing cosmetic cartons. Say, GcKirgc. do you have any idea of where JACK SEXTON* and CHARLIE GALUAGHER arc hanging out?" 
During a little business travel in the past few months I have Iiad the opportunity of meeting a few class members. I ran into ED McGINN in Pliiladelphia just by chance and we had a won­derful time renewing school and Xaxy days to­gether. Ed is with the Pennsalt Chemicals Corp. in Pliiladelphia, itherc he is doing employment and job analysis work. He and his wife, Jean, live at 4009 Pilcrim road, Pl>'mouth Meeting, Pennsylvania. 1 also spent an evening %vith JACK PITTAS in Washington at his home at 3337B, South Wake­field, Arlington, Virginia. Jack is finishing Law Scliool at Georgetown and also working at the Securities and Excliange Commission. He has a right to be proud of his family of two boys and a girl. 
That sums it up from here, I am sitting back how waiting for the mail to roll in. Remember, '*Tliis column depends upon its friends." 
From tlic .\Iumni Oitice: Lieut, (j.g.) FR.\NCIS J. ROMANCE is serving in Naval Intelligence at Port Lyautev, Morocco. JAMES H. HARRINGTON has joined Esso Re­search and Engineering Co. and lives at 519 Clarc­niont Place, Cranford, N. J. JOHN P. SONTAG received an M.A. from Har­\-ard in June, while JOHN E. CUNNINGHAM, JR., successfully completed his course at Albany Medical College and is now an M.H, The mother of JOSEPH JURICIC wrote to de­scribe the circumstances of her son's tragic death in a landing accident on the carrier USS Forrestal off the coast of Norway, A navigator-bombardirr who had been all over the world with the Na\y, Joe leaves a brother who is a pilot on the Forrestal. His body and those of the pilot and radioman were never recovered. 
195 5 Thomas F. O'Mallcy 6738 Kenwood Kansas City, Mo. 
Again I have the unfortunate task of reporting the untimely death of two of our classmates. PAUL MARBACH u-as killed in the crash of a Naxy plane on May 27lh at Quonset Pi., R. I. JOHN F.AHLE met his death in an automobile accident on July 3rd at Camp Lejcune. N. C. Their parents may be certain that they will be continually re­membered by the class in our prayers. 

I was fortunate enough to be able to spend my \-acation this year in California and combine the tnp with the sad duty of seeing two more class­mates desert the glorious realm of singularity. JACK SORANNO married Miss Ariennc Callahan on August I6th in Fresno, Calif. Jack is working for the Gillette Safety Razor Company and plans to call Fresno his home for the time being. I had heard quite a bit about Fresno and the "y*all come^* atmosphere of the Soraijno household, but Mr. and Mrs. Soranno outdid themselves this time and showed this yokel from the countrj-a time that I won't soon forget. If any member of the class is interested in adding life to some future party, contact the Sorannos. They have a son-in­law that has ball and glove and will travel. After the wedding, I drove to Alameda with DAVE METZ and his wife, Sandy. Tliey housed this poor rela­tion for four days and managed to show me quite a bit of San Francisco. Dave is currently stationed with the Na\y at the Alameda Naval Air Station. He plans to be released this coming January. From Dave's house I moved, bag and baggage, to Mountain View and a short but enjoyable stay with DON mLLIA.\!S and his wife Joan. Don is 

60 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 
stationed at the Presidio Army Base in San Fran­
cisco and plans to be discharged this spring. From 
Don's place we moved to Stockton where HAL 
WILLENBORG married Miss Mar>- Peoples on 
August 23rd. Hal is presently stationed at the 
Stockton Na\-al Supply Annex and I have it straight 
from the horse^s mouth that he plans to make the 
Navx- his career. No comparison intended by my 
reference to horses, Hal. Forgot to mention that 
DICK O'ROURKE and his wife Carolyn made it 
to Fresno for Jack's wedding. Dick is farming in 
the Hanford, Calif., area. Just from the few min­
utes that I talked to him, I could tell that he has 
the pro*-erbiaI '"sreen thumbs" Much to my dis­
may, my California vacation came to an end and 
tonight I'm writing this column in a motel in 
Sedalia, Mo. .-Mi, the lilc of a salesman. 
BOB McGR.\TH docs his usual good job of checking in now and then to let me know what he's been up to. He's working as a manufacturer's representative for McCarthy Associates in San Diego, Calif. Tlic news to follow is from Bob^s letter. JOE McGRAW is attending Tulsa Law School and working for Kewanee Oil Co. HUGH SCHAEFER is also attending the Law School at Tulsa. TIM NORTON and his wife arc now the parents of two, but names and dates aren't known. Fill me in, Tim. I received a verv welcome letter from HARRY NIE.MANN. He and his wife, Joanne, arc living in Philadelphia where Harr>' is an insurance underwriter for the Allstate Insur­ance Co. .A new member of the family, Valerie, was added on July 3rd. Welcome aboard. Valeric, and congratulations Joanne and Harry-
DICK FARRELL dropped me a Hnc from the Deep South and I think that his address is cer­tainly Worth passing on. With tongue in cheek, Dick tells me that he ii\'es at 4209 TIHy Mill Rd., Duravillc, Ga. (** 'Twas brilHg and the slithcy toads did gyre and gimbic in the wabe.**) Sounds like something from a Walt Disney movie. Enough of that! Dick is a group insurance undenvritcr with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. in At­lanta. He and his wife, Bridget, have two sons, Dick Jr., 3, and Tommv, 1. Dick would Hkc to hear from MAURY CICCIARELLI and BOB BRE­
ZENSKI. So would 1. BOB NAVARRE writes 
that he and his wife have settled in Jackson, Mich­igan, where he is a sales manager of the Marbcn Corporation. Bob and his wife have two children, a boy and a giri. Bob reports that JOHN POWERS and family are now living in Lansing, Mich., while John works for the Oldsmobile Division of General Motors. 
BOB MORRISON married Miss Rita Hoenig on September 6tli in Chicago. Congratulations and best wishes to them both. Good show, Afo* DICK HAIRSINE checked in from >Mlniington, Del., and did a good job of supplying me with some much needed news. Dick was awarded his CP.-V certifi­cate in .August of '56 and received his MB.-\ de­gree from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton Graduate School in June of '57. He is presently working in the methods department of the Wil­mington Trust Co. Last and probably most im­portant, Dick married Miss Susie Brunck on Sep­tember 13th. GERRY SHEAHAN %vas best man and JIM YONKE was one of the ushers. Gerry-just completed a two year tour with the Army In­teltigen-e Corps in Baltimore. He is now working for his family In their business, O'Connor's Clean-en^, in the Chicago area. Jim just finished a two year hitch with the Marines last September. He spent most of his time in Japan. He is currently working for AIontgomcr\* Ward in Chicago as an assistant credit managei. It appears that you grads in the Chicago area have two jobs to perform. First, pull that old gray flannel out of the closet and get it down to Gcrr>'. If it's like mine, it needs cleaning. Then, go over to see Jim and buy something on time. Then, relax, because you've done your good deed for the day. However, to­morrow you have to write the class secretary' and give him some news about yourself and others. A grad's work is never done. JIM SCHAEFER will complete his work for a Ph.D. in diemistry this fall. Ttien he plans to go to the University of Chicago for some more grad work. Before I for­get, Dick Hairsine would like to hear from JACK STEPHENS. When last seen, he was in Memphis, Tenn. How about it. Jack. JOHN CONNAUGH­TON Writes from Camp Lcjeunc, N. C , where he is stationed with the Marines. He linislied up his overseas tour at Marine Barracks, Pearl Harbor. Needless to say, John enjoyed himself. His letter contained quite a bit of news and I think that I'll prc\-ail on Iiim to write again soon. Netvs is needed, John. BERNIE SMYTHE is also stationed with John at Camp Lejuene. JI.M SHERER en­tered the novitiate of the Holy Cross Older, Jor­
dan, Minn., in August. ED KELLY^ is finding time to \*acation with the Naxy at Fort .Amador. Canal Zone. FAT O'DONNELL » doing a little flying with the Na\->- in Hawaii. FRED DEL/\NEY and PETE RITTENHOUSE arc in the Marines and have been seeing a little of the Philippines. I un­derstand that they also spent some time on Oki­nawa. Camp Lcjucnc also claims JACK FLYNN as a subway alumnus. DICK WELCH and JIM WEINLADER were stationed on Okinawa but both have returned to the States for duly. JOHN MOR­RISSEY and his wife, Marx- Pat, had their first-horn on May 9th, and what could be more Irish than Scan Patrick. Sure and he's a bit of the old sod. Also in the offspring department, JOHN QUEENAN and iiis wife, Carrie, had their first child this spring, John, Jr. Another little Hutch x*-as added and, naturally BOB HUTCHISON and his wife Joan are very happy about the whole thing. JIM GRIFFIN is now out of the Marines and will enter Loyola Law School this fall. Notre Dame Law School will claim another long lost son as BERT METZGER returns from the Nav\- and will enter this fall. BILL .McCLAIN departed from 

N. D» Law School this June with his degree. JIM O'SHExV now holds hi> master's in English. He plans to start work on his doctorate tins fall. ELLIS JOSEPH received his doctorate fnim N. D. in August and plans to attend the University of North Carolina Law School in Sept. 
PAUL FULLMER cliccked in again with the hot scoop picked up at a stag party for STEVE RE­BORA just before his marriage. Judging from the group that made the affair, I'm sure that they gave him quite a send off. Paul is still in public relations work in Chicago and mentioned that he had to spend two weeks in Denver this summer playing war. It's all for the cause, Paul. The news to follow is from his letter. BILL RE.ALE is still holding down a desk as the cooperative ad­vertising manager for Tappan gas ranges in Mans­field, Ohio. TOM HxVYES is a salesman for Kuo\ and Schneider, a Chicago industrial paper house. He and his wife and son still live in La Grange. CHARLIE COLLINS plans to go after his law de­gree this fall at either N. D. or Harvard. Charlie just finished a tour with the Navy. DICK BEE­MAN is selling classified advertising for the Chi­cago Tribune. Dick and his wife and two cliildien live in Evanston. JERRY PR.ASSUS was irleased from the Air Force recently and is working in real estate in Chicago. Anyone needing an elfici­enc\- apartment on the Gold Coast can contact him for a few good leads. DAVE COHEN is ad­vertising and promotion manager for Fides Press. DICK MANNION is doing public relations work for an insurance company. 
BILL KREP3 celebrated his first aiiiiiversarv* as a civilian by writing from down Houston. Texas, »-ay. Bill is working for the Shell Oil Co. and is assigned t(» the Tulsa area. He reports that he and his wife are the proud parents of a little Mar\' Ann, born March 21st. Congratulations. .MIKE CULLINAN is working for Gulf Oil C». in Houston. Bill would like to know what hap­pened to CHARLIE N.AJJAR and SON.VY COWLES. Any sleuth that comes up with the information can write Bill at Shell Oil Co., Box 1191. Tulsa. Okla. 
TOM MAY married the former Miss Kathleen Mar>' Flood on August 9tli in Tacoma, Wash. Con­gratulations and best wishes to them both. I won­der if BOB MALLON was there to help pour the champagne. Here we go again. WH.A'T EVER HAPPENED TO — MIGUEL RA.MOS, CHARLIE MORGAN, HARRY GR-AFF, JOHN GROGv\N, JIM DRYDEN, all of the grads from the gridiron (Haven't heard from anv of them). WALLY CLxXRKE, JOHN RUSSO. CHRIS L.VRSEN, WALT K.AVANAUGH, DICK HOHMAN. FR.\NK HICKEY, CHUCK ME.\RS, BOB KR.AXZKE, JOHN KENNEDY, and the other grads who haven't written. 
JACK REED writes from Ann Arbor, .Mich.. where he's attending the business school at the University. He just finished a 16 month tour with the Army at Fort Polk, La., and hopes to get his MBA in about a year. Glad to have you back in civvies again. Jack GENE SCHMIDT informs me that he has thoroughly adjusted to civilian life and is finding things much to his liking with Western Electric in Oklahoma City. Gene is still single but feels that his da^-s are numbered. Judging from the nuptial reports. Gene, it happens to the best of us. He mentions that FRANK McCARTHY is just around the corner from being discharged from the Na\->' and plans to return to work for the American Blower Co. in Detroit. RON RENE wanted to know if I was serious about the five dollar item that I mentioned in the last column. 
I feci it my duty to tell you, Ron. ihat consider­ing interest diargcs, the amount is now $7.50. (Maybe this will get you to write aniitlier newsy Ifller.) Hf and his wife are c.\prc|jnif. as Ron puts It, "a little Frenchman in Xovemher.** The hot flashes to Tollovv are from his letter. JACK PINTER and his wife, Liz, were expecting an­otlier member of the family in August so by the tUuK that this column is printed, u-e should have the good news. .MARTY CULHANE is working for the Aetna Security and Ca-sual Co. in Chicago. JIM EHRET is Hying with the Navy at Quonset Pt., R. I. TOM BR^VND is working for DuPont in Louisville, Ky, 
It was g(K>d to hear from MIKE WARD, and a lot has happened to him since last I heard. After graduation. Mike worked for the F.B.I.. United Pr<.*>s. and Uncte Sam. He has four more months of service to do with his last employer. Mike is stationed at Fort Sill, Okla., and his family con­sists of Harriet his wife. Mary Eileen his daughter, born February- 2nd of this year, and Fatsy their dog. Tins last was thro^vn jn for all aniniaJ lovers who have berated me for ignoring man's best friend, Mike sent some news of other '55 people. JOE HAYDE N is married and the father of a baby girl. He fuiished bis tour as an otlicer in the Air Force and Is now In business with his father in i*hiladel­phia. D.AN HE;\LE Y was released from the Army in February- and is now working with a geology company in Utali. MIKE AQUILINO and Iiis wife. Charlotte, are expecting a baby in September. He's completing his final year at Georgetown Law School, BILL .\RNOLD and his wife are livhig in .Ann .\rbor, Mich., while he is studying law at Michigan. 
JI.M a\N*TRILL and bis wife. Barbara, are liv­ing in Cambridge, Mass., while Jim attends M.I.T. He has accepted a job with Eastman Kodak Co. in Rochester, N.V. They have a daughter. Cecilia Anne, born April 3Uth, 1937, and they expected another Cantrill In September. Thanks. Barbara. 
\VH,-\T EVER HAI»I»ENED TO — JOE RAF­FERT\', PAUL .MOONEY. PAT KE.\RNS, LEO JxVNKOWSKI. AL GER.MAIX, JOHN ROGERS. TOM ROGERS, JIM RILEY (of .Muskegon). JACK GOETSCH, JOHN FALLON, RICK HICKS, JOE CLUSSERATH, BOB CAFFARELLI, and JOE B.AUMIE. I could also use some news from DICK BOLAND. 
From the AInmnt Office: JOHN B. O'SULLIVAN xvon an .\LS. at Iowa State College, while GORDON G. GOETE.MAN picked up an M.F.A. at the State Universitv. BENJA.MIN THOMAS REIDY, JR., is an M.B..\. at Harvard, and DALE E. WHITE took an M.A. at the U. of Denver. GEORGE F. PEZDIRTZ, with a Ph.D. from Notre Dame, has joined the Texas Co. as a re­search chemist in Beacon, New' York. PAT O'DONiVELL has bixn stationed at Bar­ber's Point Nf\S, Hawaii, as a pilot, while R/VY KENNEDY has been directing plays like "Stalag 17'' and "Inherit the Wind'* for the Army in Zama. Japan. RALPH GUGLIELMI, ont of the Air Force i*ii July and starting with the Washington Redskin^, lias already endeared himself to some of the local small fry. I guess that's just about it foi the time being. Thanks to all of those who took time to write. It's greatly appreciated. Greetings to alt of my friendly in Mobile. .Alabama, and I hope that pitching horseshoes is less hazardous there than in Kansas City, One last word. Remember, **Keep moving is iielping your country." Pax! 
195& ^°^^ ^' ^^^^ 
• '^^ o697 N. Lincoln Ave. Chicago 43, Illinois 
FRANK BOOS got tiied of scanning through this column, hoping to see some familiar names. and so decided to toss in a few from (Apt. 3-F. 8 Terrace Circle. Great Neck. L. I., N.V.). His letter tells of DAVE LOCKWOOD and wife Nell busy with Cornell Med. School and two Htlle Lock-woods, David. Jr. and Colleen at (-145 E. 68th St.. .\*ew York, N.Y.). 
MIKE L.ANNAN was seen last March 17 in the New York St. Paddy's Day Parade. He spent a few short months at Cape Canaveral but is now working as a Field Engineer with Burroughs in Philly. (400 Parkside) Pa. 
DIG LYNCH going well at Cornell, was seen one dav last June, as u'as the old man of the Electrical Engineering Dept., H.ANK BURKE (Frank's roommate), who was married in June *57 to a Long Island lass. Miss Mary Jane Dolan. Hank is currently a Field Engineer with Hazeltine Electronics Division of Little Neck, L, I., N.Y., after spending the last two years in .Alaska. 
Read in the "Electronic News" that BOB MINCK w*as awarded a scholarship at the University of Wisconsin. .After a short three month vacation at Great Lakes, JOHN GAVIN h noi%-with the Pub­lic Service Co., Maywood, Illinois. 
JOHN BROWN and wife Rosemary are living in Mishawaka where John ts kept busy with Dodge Products and at last word two girls, Judie Ann and Kalhryn Elizabeth. 
^lany thanks, Frank, for the above news as you keep busy in the Patent Dept. of Hazeltine and night .school at Fordbam Law. 
Frank would like to know the whereabouts of MIKE CANS, BRUCE BROWN, JOHN COLLINS and DON GOTHARD. 
Rae Cairo of Rosary College was married to RENO M/VSINI on September 7, 1957, and spent a two - Week honeymoon in .Acapuico and Mexico City. Since graduation Reno has been employed by Pace fVssociates, architects and city planners in Chicago's Loop. They have just completed the ultra-modern over-the-road Restaurants and Serv'ice .Areas for the Illinois Toll Highway, The Masinis recently moved into a new home (last May) and are kept busy with the household duties, and in his letter Reno extends an invitation to the Class of '56 to drop in any time at (10245 McNernev Drive. Franklin Park, IllinotsJ especially to sec Laura Marie who weighed in at 8 lbs. 1 02. last June 21. 
The Class of '56 is asked to remember in their prayers the mother ol JIM MEHARY, who passed away quite suddenly on April 14 of this year. Jim was brought back from France after spending some 10 months in Europe He is now assigned as 
YOU CAN HELP NOTRE DAME BY Sending a personal contribution Submitting names of friends inter­ested in the university Advising N.D. Foundation Office if your company has a *plan of giving' Informing University of your cor­poration's 'areas of interest* Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.e. paintings, equipment, books, etc.) Naming the University as a benefici­ary in your insurance policy 
Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations in your community 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION, 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

a stenographer, 1st Army Headquarters at Ft. Jay, and will finish his tour by Nov. 8th. He asked that in case any of the boj-s arc in town you are welcome and the doors at 266 Raymond St., Rock­ville Centre, N.Y., will always be open. . . . 
A bulletin from the Alumni Office informs the column that Mr. Oscar Ruhl, father of BOB RUHL, (1117 Lawn Ave., St. Louis, Missouri) and Donald '58 died last August. Please remember him in your prayers as the Notre Oame Foundation offers Mass for deceased members of Alumni fami­lies on the first Saturday of every* month. . . . 
From olc Fort Knox It was good to hear from JOE WEIBEL who just finished hb two years in the great country south of Louisville. . .I^te last summer be and GEORGE D.AILEY tossed a re­union at the Fort and were surprised when some 
10 lads sboued up. , . .Since then thev" met—to mention a few — AL VIR03TEK, JI.M MENSE, WARREN ASHB.AUGH, GEORGE NICUL.A, JOHN HUM.MER, JL\! FOSTER, TO.\! TROS­SEN and JIM KREBS in Louisville on witek ends. Joe is now in pursuit of a aiajac in Real Estate and can be reached at the Graduate School of Business Administration, Southern Methodist Uni­versity, Dallas, Texas. . . 
LEO O'OONNELL answered the last issue with news that he has returned to Pittsburgh, and United otates Steel, single and no immediate plans to change the situation. . . . 
ENS. ROBERT BAIETTO and Miss Willa Jean i own wetc married the 31st of August in St. William's Chapel, St. Simon's Island, Georgia. Tlie reception followed in the Sea Island Yacht Club. . . . 
Wedding bells also rang on 13 September at 10 o'clock in Holy Trinity Cathedral, New Ulm, .Minnesota, for LT. ROY BREDAHL, US.AF and Miss Lila Mac Macho, a music major at the Uni­versity of Minnesota. Tlie civil engineer has been in ser\*ice since Oct. '56 spending his first year at Resolution Island, one of those Isolated radar sta­tions In the frozen north. He is now stationed at Shaw .A.F.B., Sumter, South Carolina. . . . 
On Saturday the 4th of October at Our Lady of Mercy Church, Bronx, New York, BUD BECH­TOLD and .Miss Patnci'a .Anne Kennedy became Mr. and Mrs. The Na\y Frogman from Wilmette, Illinois, and also Bob and Roy are to be con­gratulated, with best wishes to them and their lovely brides. .. . 
Chicago's Illinois .Athletic Club was the scene of an interesting handball match one day last August. Tlie contestants were Fr. Ed .MURRAY, CS.C , our Alumni Hall Rector, and his partner for two games, TO.M McNEILL. T}te opponents BENITO CARRAN E and yours truly lost a pair 21-18 and 21-19. . . .The third game matched Tom and my­self against the Rev. and Benito, proving that the Rector can be stopped 21-17. . . . 
TOM KELLY and family have set up their household In Evanston, Illinois (DA 8-0077). The move from Davenport, Iowa, now finds Tom with the Continental Insurance Co 
On a recent trip to IVashington, D. C , we ran into LARRY DUNWORTH (2211 39th Placc-E-M 2-8265). The Georgetown Med. student extends an invitation to all in the area, at least to stop in and see the swank Uttlc cottage adorned with ex­otic scenes done by a very lovely scnorita. ... . 
Picked up the following Information during the short visit. Joanne and JIM G.AMMON have a four month old son BOB O'MALLEY spent the summer in a D. C. Jaw firm DAVE THOMPSON working on his masters ART BALEK, an engineer with the Bureau of Roads. . . . .TONY CASTORINI married and living in 
D.C.. . . .JI.M SWIFT, J.ACK OWEN, MIKE KILEY back in Georgetown Law sad guarding the Capitol Building BOB MULDUNE stiU with Uncle Sam and in Grad School 
Thru the grapevine comes the following: LT. JLM MILAS and the former Rita Andreas (SMC) are the proud parents of a baby girl as told by Mr. and Mrs. Hughes, neighbors of the bride. .... Mr. and Mrs. David Henebcry Cummings have announced that on July 12 last their daughter Pa­tricia Ann married DENNY POWERS in Wash­ington, Illinois. . . . Angle and 1ST LT. DAVID McNA.\LARA (1229 Arlington West, Larson AFB, Washington) are happy to announce that David Franklin weighed In at 6 lbs., 12/2 oz., on June 15. PAT COG.AN and bride Pat McManus were ex­pecting lost September and at this writing no offi-

Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 61 
CALENDAR 
Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—^First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m.. Hotel Sheraton, 715 Dela­ware Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo*' is reserved for lunch at K. of C , 506 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of ever>* month. Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Second Wed­nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St., Perth Amboy, 
N. J. CHICAGO—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12:15 p.m.. Western Society of Engineers Club, 84 E. Randolph, Chicago-DECATUR — Monthly luncheons, fourtli Wednesday of every month at Greider's Cafe, North Water Street, Decatur, 111. DETROIT—^First Thursday of each month, luncheon, at 12 noon, Calvert Catering, opposite Blessed Sacrament Cathedral on Woodward Ave., Detroit. ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wives, Antler's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m.. Sept- thru June, Erie, Fa. FORT LAUDERDALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner, at 7:30 p.m.. Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. KANSAS CITY—Weekly luncheons, Thurs­days at Famous Restaurant, Kansas City, Mo. ML\MI—First Thursday (night) of every month at the Urmey Hotel, 34 S.E. 2nd Ave., Downtown Miami. NEW JERSEY—Informal monthly lunch­eon at Kelly's Seafood Restaurant in downtown Newark, first Friday of each month. OKLAHOAL\ CITY — First Monday of each month, night, check McFarland's Drive-In Theater, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. PHILADELPHIA—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club, Philadelphia, Pa. PITTSBURGH—Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Tuesday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa., at 12 noon. ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12 noon. Powers Hotel, Rochester, N, Y. (If this is a holiday, meeting is held on second Monday.) ST. LOUIS—Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, SL Louis, Mo., second Monday of each month. SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — Firet Friday of every month, noon luncheon get-together at the Racine Elks Club, Racine, ^VASHINGTON — AVcekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street N.W., Washington, D. C. WILKES-BARRE—First Tuesday of every 
month, luncheon meeting, 12:15 p.m., in the main dining room. Hotel Sterling, 
•\Vilkes-Barre, Pa. 

62 Notre Dame Alurtinus^ November, 1958 
cial word has been received; however, the Cogans 
should be (itmhcd with their Army obligations and 
will return to Detroit this Febniarv. 
JIM a\RSOX married Virginia Vighi of SMC 
and is living outside IMiilly at 130 Treaty Elms 
Lane. Haddonficid, X. J. 
Tltc NEVINS are the happy parents of a bounc­ing baby girl-• - -ED SPENGEMEN, stationed in Germany, is looking forward to his discharge date Mimetime early this fall. . . .PAUL ANSELMI, very busy in the car business in Rock Springs, Wyoming, about to make the announcement. . . .HENRY YEE with Hazcltine as a Field Engineer and at present is in San .Antonio, Texas. 
Indianapolis, Indiana was a bubbling metropolis last Aug. 16 as Miss Shirley Ann O'Brien (SMC) and JIM CRE.\MER, '51, exchanged vows. Many thanks to Mr. and Mrs. Mooney for the accommo­dations. . . . .That evening a farewell partv was given by ED XOON for MIKE (Friar tuck) MOONEV now in his new quarters in the Fran­ciscan Monastcrj-, AVcslmont, Illinois. What a week end 
Tlic football Season at writing time is around the comer so. if I mav. . . .it looks like (10^) for TERRY BRE.\NAN and the Irish Bye fur now, hope to have seen you at the Army game. 

From the Alumni Office: Accolades: JOHN CLIFFORD, .\LS., Iowa State College; HYUNG SUP CHOI, Ph.D., Univereitv of Minnesota: EUGENE J. MARTELL, M. Ed., Uni­versitv of Toledo; VICTOR T. SHAHAN, .M.S. (EE), Canicgie Tech., and RICHARD J. 0»­KEEFE, LL.B., St. John's University. Sunmier advanced grad RUTH SEGETY is back teaching in South Bend schools after several weeks in Europe this past summer. Service notes: Ll. (jg) KARL MARTERSTECK, chief engineer of the destroyer USS Meredith, as­signed to patrol the Red Sea and Persian Gulf, hud to be cabled about the arri\'al of an heir. .. . JOHN FANNON, former basketball captain, and teammate BILL WE1M.\N had a great season last year with the Hawaii Marine basketball team. Tliey won the Pacific Marine tournament and the All-Marine championship, played in the Islands for the first lime. In March they went to Denver to compete !n the National A.A.U. tournament. Bill's wife Barbara was with him in Hawaii, and John was single at last report. . . .PAUL NOL/\ND was also in the islands, a pilot at Barber's Point NAS. . . . FR/VNCIS X. BEYTAGH has been traveling virtually all over the world with the U. S. Naw and has "greatly enjoyed reading the news of X. D. and my classmates in the ALUMNUS." He has been missing some copies, **and since tliat fine pub­lication is one of the best ways for one in the ser\-ice to keep somewhat in touch with X. D., I would ver\" much appreciate receiving all the cop­ies." . . .J . ROBERT HILGER, JR., stationed in Germany, will be discharged from the Army next May and expects to nsit the campus with his bride. 
•'Barbara and I were married in Listowel, County Kerr>-, Ireland, in St. Mar\-'s Church on June 14 of this year, by Canon Sulli\-an and Fr. Devlin, who knew Fr. QUINUVX of Xotre Dame." His wife, the former Barbara. Ann Brien of Ypsilanti, Mich., will slay with him in Germany. 
I QC7 Charles P. Williamson 
•^^ ' P.O. Box 605 Mt. Vernon, Illinois 
I'll start this one off \>'ith congratulations to JOE MALONEY, who passed the New Jeree>- Bar examination on the first tr>% While many of you probably got a letter from the Dean on this, never­theless, I want to make sure that ever>'onc knows about it. 
Some weeks back, I received a ver>* impressive letter from the Law Offices of LARRY KANE in Cincinn-iti. TIte information contained therein was quite voluminous. Larr\* reported that BOB GOR­MAN -had taken a position witli Jones and Day, a law firm in Cleveland and also, that their expected baby arrived on schedule. Larr)' also reported that Columbus, Ohio banking circles were pleased to learn that DAVE BARNES, after having successfully passed the Ohio Bar in February', had joined the Trust Department of the Ohio National Bank and Trust Company. Looks like Dave may sink a few shafts down there. Then, after that news from Cleveland and Columbus, Cincinnati reports ttiat TO.M Cx\LDER is the proud father of one John David Calder. Informed sources have led mc to believe that the young man was born with glasses, eye-glasses, that is. Larr\' rounded out his letter by reporting that he and Barbara arc expecting— 
again!! 
TED WERNER also gave nic a wonderful bi­ographical data sheet on his last year on this wonderful planet. After having been disappointed by the Air Force, Ted took refuge from the draft in the Army Reser\'c and spent some enjoyable weeks at Fort Dix where the wind blew and the snow flew quite heavily to add to Ids normal en­joyment. This fine news also—Pat and Ted adopted a little girl, Gcr^l Ann. ^Utcr completing clerk-typist school at Fort Jackson, South Carolina, the big man with the crew-cut was assigned to the legal assistant's office of the Staff Judge Advocate. This involved Ted in a good many small problems involving wills, estates, marital difficulties, and other general legal advice. 
Having bid adieu to the Armed Forces in late July, Ted had several possibilities both in Milwau­kee and Cedar Rapids. Iowa. The allcrnate was an application for a commission in the Judge .Ad­vocate General's Corps of the Army. Good luck, wherever it is, Ted! 
Those of you who were able, and I am sure there were many of you, to travel throughout Europe this summer, undoubtedly ran into KARL JORD.\ enjoying a relaxed sojourn in sunny Swit­zerland. A post card to mc indicated that perhaps he had organized the Fourth Reich. Further periLsal of the contents of the card indicated that my pre­sumption was wrong. Seriously, Alice and Karl enjoyed ver>* much their visit with her parents and no doubt, have returned home by this time. 
s\s most of you will be reading this in the nitdst of the football season. I hope that some of us will be able to get together and exchange "war stories'' over a bottle of beer. 
Yours, with the regards of MRS. PALSGR^VF. 

From the Alumni Office: ; In .August JIM KURTH was named head foot-] ball coach of Central Catholic Higli School, Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Jim joined the staff last year as assistant football mentor. JAMES L. RUSSELL recently joined the De­velopment Department of the Overseas Division of Proctor & Gamble. CHARLES L. CUSUMANO, JR.. married Joanne Elaine DcSininne in Brooklyn, X.V., August 16. i He is now at Georgetown University Medical School. 
1 958 ^^*^"'" ^ ' Roulc, Jr. 1717 Indiana Ave. LaPorte, Indiana j 
After a surprisingly short summer, the time has { come to produce Edition N*o. 2 of the *58 Xews, and I hope that this coition will not sufTer from . that malady so evident in Edition No. 1—namely, tvpograpliical and grammatical goof-itis. Probably the best feature of the last column was the fact i that it stimulated some correspondence, a welcome event at any time. 
.-\s this gees to press, your secretary" is readying himself for the rigors of the Notre Dame Law School after a summer of miscellaneous labors on the Indiana Toll Road. I hope that the departure of the recession hysteria finds all of you men prof­itably employed, in one way or another. 
During the coming week end I plan to run up to Detroit for DON ANDRYSIAK'S wedding. As was reported last time, Dun is being married to Miss Gayle Boiz. While there I hope to gather some news of other guests (i.e*, GEORGE VAN KUL.\ and ST^VN WEGRZYNOWICZ). 
A note arrived the other day from AL CIRILLO, telling us that he b planning to study for a Mas­ter's degree at Mar\-|and. starting tliis fall. Al was married on May 31 to Miss Alice Ruth Malia, a South Bend girl. .AI further informs us tltat he is a substitute teacher in the Baltimore Scliool Sys­tem. 

I have also received some news about DON ADRLVN. His father writes that Don has been em-> ployed by the Health and Sanitation Department of the State of California, and that Don will work for his Master's degree at the University of Califor-f nia (Berkeley). 
Word from South Bend tells us that TO.M BAR­THOLOMEW, an ensign in the U.S.X., has been assigned to the Armament Testing Division at the Nav-al Air Base Center, Pattixent River, Mar>-land. ' As of October, he will be in flight school in I'cnsa­cola. 
We were very sorr>* to hear, during August, of the death of DON RUHL'S father. A Mass was arranged for him at the request of the class and was offered in Sacred Heart Churcli by FATHER SCHAERF. Your prayers would be appreciated by Mr. RuhPs family and friends. 

I slill have a stack of census cards which I didn't get a chance to read before the last cuhimn went to press. So if any of you men have been won­dering why your names were not included in that huge article, please be advised that it was because I just didn't have time to include them. Since I have more time and definitely more space I will run through them now. 
LORv\N SHEFFER is serving with the Army Quartermaster Corps at Fort Lee, Virginia. He obviously has a lot of company. HOWIE POL­L/VRD is in the employ of Zenith, working in Chicago. KEX a\RMIGX/\M works for the State.of Illinois in some engineering capacity. He is in Chicago and plans to continue his education at the Illinois Institute of Technology. 
ROCCO PUNTURERI is another X.D. Law Student. BOB NORRIS is engaged in pharmaceu­tical development with the Clias. Pfizer Company in Brooklyn. SPECKS ROGERS aspires to enter the field of dentistr>' and is at the University of BufTalo learning all about teeth. ED CONROV is a member of the DuPont organization. He too is doing some type of engineering. His n>ilitar\' commitments are in the fonu of duty at the Nor­folk naval base. 
A rundown of other military* men, whether draftees, enlistees, or ROTC's, would look like this: GEORGE OESS is at Fort Benning. Georgia; JI.M DAILEY is Willi the Xa\-y at Little Creek, Vir­ginia; JOHN HO\\'x\RD, an infantryman, is also at Fort Benning; BOB FERR/\NTE is aboard the 
U.S.S. Lookout, YAGR-2 (whatever that is) oper­ating out of DavUville, R.L BILL HOHMxVNN sails the bounding main aboard the U.S.S. Helena. TOM GOZDECKI will begin his term at Fort Benning on January* 17 and is looking forward to a delightful six months I am sure. GERRY FISH­ER will have finisiied his hitch at Fort Sam Hous­ton sometime in August. DENNIS CROWLEY, another Armv man. is at Fort Lee, Virginia. HARRY ENRIGHT it or will be aboard an '"LSO" out of San Diego. 
GLENN SHELDON is also with the Nav-y but 
iliTit^l:. 
Iiiii CATitniic /yj •'••'^f 
"TZM ^. 
THE CATHOLIC BOY 
published by The Holy Cross Fathers at Notre Dame 

in a civilian capacity. He is doing technical writ­ing at the Xa\-al Electronics Lab in San Diego. STEVE BAKER lists his employer and line of work as Link-Belt Co. and penonnel department. Steve was married in June to Miss Reda Snoddy in Indianapolis. JACK FL/\NAG/VN was also wed during the summer. He married Miss Mildred Ryan on August IG in Spring Lake, New Jersey. Jack's employer is Dr. Charles Brodman of East Orange, X'ew Jersey; evidently Jack is doing some sort of advertising work. He also has an Army hitch to ser\'e at Fort Knox, Kentucky, 
FRJVNK MCCORMACK informs us that he will be wed in December. The bride will be Miss Shir­ley Reed and the wedding place will be Waterloo, Iowa. Frank's service obligations include USMC Flight School at Pensacola. JOE SCOTKOVSKY is working for the City of Chicago as a highn*ay engineer. On October 4, he too was married. The bride was Miss Pat Slebcn of Skokie. Joe is an­other of the Fort Benning men. PETE .MURPHY reports that he is working for his father in a lumber concern in Portland, Oregon. 
L/\RRY BECKER will study law at .Marquette. Other law students at various universities are: DON CORBETT at Cornell (Don was married, by the way, to Miss Lois Marks on August 8, in the Log Cliapel), JOE WLNTERHOLLER at Florida, DICK S.MITH at .Michigan, and JERRY FAR­RELL at the University of San Diego. Jerry* has been working for Conx-air in San Diego. 
On with the show! BILL R^XCHAC besides ser\'­ing with the Air Force in Texas married Miss Mar>- Rauscli in Mankato, Minnesota, on Septem­ber 6. DENNIS GIBSON continues the study of education at .Votre Dame. GEORGE O.MARTIAN is handling real estate in Springfield, Massachu­setts (and I do not mean with a shovel). In ad­dition, he is studying telecommunications at Syra­cuse. 
Another marriage is that of RON FARROW and .Miss Marinelle Manion. It took place last Mav 31 in the Log Chapel. GARY ZLMMERMiVN is in the architecture line with Seassold & Johnson (I would lint swear to that spelling but I can't make it out on the census card). RUDY MIHA­LIK is with Bauer & Black in Chicago. He too is a recent bridegroom. On August 24th he and Miss Kay Genge were wed in Ridgewood. Illinois. Rudy plans to continue studying at the Illinois In­stitute of Technology. ANDY DONAJUE will at­tend the Scripps Institute of Oceanography to ob­tain a Ph. D. in that field. He is also with the Corps of Engineers of the Army. 
BILL MOTZ is editing for the Canadian Press in Toronto. Miss Dorcen Ludwig became his wife' on October 25. 
Well, that's it for this time. I have run through all the ax-ailabte news and am now eagerly await­ing the arri\'al of a new batch. \VilI you be one of the contributors? 
While I am still stationed at the ty*pewriter I would like to inform those of you who will be dropping in to South Bend this fall (football games etc) that I w*ill be staying in room 322—Fisher Hall. Of course, by the time you receive this a major part cf the season will be past, but I might snare a few of you anyway. I hope so. 
So lung until next time. 
From the Alumni Ofl^ce: VERY REV. FATHER BRL\N EGAN, O.S.B.. president of St. Bernard College, Cullman, Ala., and a summer school M.A., was a special guest of Bob Hope in St. Louis for a performance of the musical ^'Roberta." Tlie screen star invited Father Brian to St. Louis to discuss a possible visit to the St. Bernard campus. DON LARIVEE worked for Con\-aIr in Pomona, Calif., before entering the U. of C. Graduate School this fall. JOSEPH R. RICH has joined the technical serv­ices department of ^lonsanto's organic chemicals plant, Monsanto, III. JOHN F. DUNN, on the staff of Standard Oil's research lab, 1810 Davis Ave., AVhiting. Ind. LUIS VICTOR G.AZZANI wa* in Lima, Peru, at last report, an official of Peru's Department of Labor. THO.\L\S CLIFTON is a music therapist at Norman Beatty Memorial Hospital, Westville, Indi­ana. 
the perfect gift 
for Alumni sons (11 to 16) 
Only $3.00 AQ pas^s chock-full of sports, advcn­a year! ^0 ture, stories, Catholic inspiration. 
• THE CATHOLIC BOY 
I Notre Dame, Indiana ; Please send the Catholic Boy 
I I 
! To: „. 
Slreet and Number 
! D Send Gift Card to read from 
• Your Xanic I Your Address 

• 1 year —$3.00 
Three or more D 2 years— 5.00 1-yr. subscriptions a 3 years— 7.00 
. ?2 jO each 
Stale 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1958 63 
•ilotre Daine Library Notre Dame Indiana 

The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Fellow .Alumni: Evansville, Indiana, October 15, 1958 
There have been so many developments since my midsummer message that I have been thoroughly stvmied for an opening. The -•Munini Association Board of Directors has met again and pressed on to new and important considerations — some of them still under wraps — before I have an opportimity to discuss the decisions reached in July: many of these, fortimately, are treated in the early pages of this magazine. 
While the .Alunmi Office staff struggled to collect, classify and evaluate the ideas engendered by the biennial Coimcil of Club Presidents there was a flurry of late-summer club activities and applications for new charters, throughout the U. S. and abroad. I hope that all Notre Dame Clubs will have received the minutes of the council by the time this is read, ^'et to come is a new Club Manual, and for 1959 the board is working on a revolutionary- program of service to our burgeoning club system. 
An even greater ser\icc is in the works for all Notre Dame Alumni in the year to come — but more about that in the next issue, either from me or my successor. 
Nominations liave just been completed for Alumni Association Directors to 1962. Two slates have been chosen with difficulty from a field of highly qualified candidates, and ballots should be in the mail in the next few weeks. Vou will also receive very shortly your Spiritual Bouquet cards, io that you may offer your Universal Notre Dame Communion for a ver\- special intention — the success of Father Hesburgh's new administration. Remember that this intention will include the success of our 10-ycar $66.6 million develop­ment program. 
Right now, in the midst of the football season, Fd better get it straight that Fm just as concerned as anyone about tlie tough row that Teny Brennan has to hoe. Teriy's Terriers need plenty of support if they arc to finish with anything approaching the sport writers' early-season esteem. 
Finally, I know that all Notre Dame men share my shock and sorrow at the death of our beloved Pope Pius XII. Among many titles he could claim — Pope of Peace, Pope of Foreign Affairs, Pope of Progress, Pope of the Atomic Age, etc. — none is more significant to us than the title he earned as the Marian Pope. Truly he was the Pope of Oin- Lady; proclaimer of the message of Fatima, the Dogma of the .Assumption, the Marian Year and the Lourdes Centennial, he was the Papacy's boldest champion of the Blessed ^''irgin Man- and, as such, the closest friend of her University. 
I am ])roud to be one of 426 Notre Dame men who can claim the late Pontiff as an honoraiy classmate. It was in 1936 — my graduation year—that Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli i-isitcd the Notre Dame campus as Papal Sccretaiy of State, knelt in humble prayer in Sacred Heart Church and proceeded to a convocation in Washington Hall at which he accepted the honoraiy degree of Doctor of Letters. In the words of Father Boarman. "the saintly scholar, envoy and prelate, less than three years later, ascended the Throne of the Fishennan, as Seivant of the servants of God, Supreme Pontiff, Bishop of Rome, 262nd in the line of suc­cession to the apostle St. Peter." 
His Holiness' Notre Dame ties were strengthened a few months ago when he graciously accepted mem­bership and a "Man-of-the-Year" citation, granting a private audience to receive the scrolls and Jeriy Ashley's gift of a music box playing the Victory Marcli and Alma Mater. The music box never left the Holy Father's apartments except to be sent to an Irish Monsignor in the Vatican to have him sec it and hear it play before doing an Englisli translation of the Papal letter of thanks for the "artistic carillon." .Attached was a note requesting return of the music box by noon! 
May he rest in everlasting peace. Sincerely, 
FRANCIS L. "MIKE" LAYDEN President 
PRINTED AT AVC MARIA PRCSS 





