The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Iren of rK. Alumni in a special 16-page insert. L / A vital message for the childre
CQLILEGE of TOM OW 

An alumnus speaks at commencement. See "Christian Witness/' pp. 6-7. 
Silver Jubilee Class Snapshots. See "Reunion Sketches" pp. 14-19. 
Also "Looking Back at Newman" by Fr. Hesburgh on pp. 4-5. 1962 U.N.D. Night Report, part 2. See pp. 21-79. Also "N.D. Image" p. 2. 

New president of the American Alumni Council is bagpiped into office. See "Coronation in Canada" 
p.3 . Also "A Season of Leadership" pp. 7-8-9. 
o 


NOTRE DAME 
ALUMNUS 
Vol. 39, No. 3 August, 1962 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers 

WALTER L. FLEMING, JR., '40 
Honorary President WILLIAM P. MAHOXEY, JR., '38 President ^IAURICE CARROLL, 'l9..Class Vice-President 
ROGER J. HUTER, '40 Club Vice-President HARRY J. MEHRE, '22 Fund Vice-President JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 
Executive Secretary 
Directors to 1963 

MAURICE CARROLL, '19 5743 Delmar Blvd. SL Louis 12, Missouri 
ROGER J. HUTER, '40* Huter-Quest Co. 833 W. Main St. Louisville, Kentucky 
WILLIAM P. MAHO.VEY, JR., '38 
U.S. Ambassador Accra, Ghana 

HARRY J. MEHRE, '22 3155 Arden Road, N.AV. Atlanta, Georgia 
Directors to 1964 

JOHN P. DEMPSEY, '49 Kidder, Peabody & Co. 123 Broad St., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY, '50 
P. O. Box 5672 Minneapolis 17, Minnesota 

WILLIAM H . FALLON, '37 100 Pelham Road New Rochelle, New York 
OLIVER H . HUNTER, '43 F.B.I., P. O. Box 23 New Castle, Penns>'lvania 

Directors to 1965 

ALBERT D . CASTELLINI, '24 506 First National Bank BIdg. Cincinnati, Ohio 
PHILIP J. FACCENDA, '51 1510 Ogden LaGrange, Illinois 
PETER J. KERNAN, JR., '49 661 Washington Road Grosse Pointe, Michigan 
ADAM J. WALSH, '25 
P. O. Box 349 Portland, Maine 

• Appointed to fill unexpired term of George ^Con­
WILLIAM MAHONEY.. .Executive
nor, '48, who resigned under pressure of business. 
ROGER HUTER Club Activities

Chairmen of the 1963 Committees 
MAURICE CARROLI Class Activities JOHN DEMPSEY 
Alumni Fundj Foundation & Gifts PATRICK DOUGHERTY-Student Affairs JOHN DEMPSEY. Admissions PETER KERNAN_P/acemen/ 6? Job Counseling ADAM WALSH Inter-Alumni Affairs OLIVER HUNTER Public Relations ALBERT CASTELUNi_R«/igion S? Citizenship MAURICE CARROLL AND ROGER HUTER 
Nominations PHILIP FACCENDA Budget & Finance WILLIAM FALLON— Athletics 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the Univezsity of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post OlEce, Notre Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

N.D. Night Reflections on 

The Notre Dame Image 
By JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25, EDITOR 
H
AS NOTRE DAME broken with its traditions? Is Notre Dame de-emphasizing ath­letics? Are Notre Dame's entrance require­ments unrealistic? Is Notre Dame too big to reflect its origins and purposes as a small school? Has money pushed other consider­
ations out of proportion? Have tlie long-hairs and the egg­heads taken over Notre Dame? 
These are, in effect, the troubled questions that reflect some of the many wornes that beset alumni and friends of the Universty of Notre Dame. 
AVhy have these questions arisen at tlie same time that Notre Dame seems to enjoy unprecedented stature and progress? 
Having lived in close community with the Universit)' for more than forty years, I am taking the liberty of ex­pressing some personal \'iews on the answers, because our larger responsibi­lities are handicapped by our lack of understanding. 
To all who have known Notre Dame, the instant image of the University is the lovely golden figure on the Dome, the "woman clothed with the sun, with the moon at her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars." 
This is as it should be. It was for this that Fatlier Sorin dedicated his life in a strange country. It has been for tliis that all his successors have labored over the years. And it remains the purpose of Notre Dame today, and to­morrow— that young men, in the Christian tradition, grow in wisdom and grace under tlie guidance of Mar)'. 
But because Notre Dame is also a working university, there has always been a secondary image. For many years, the education and tlie discipline and die goals were so easily translated into tlie primaiy purpose that there was no conscious separation, and jio barrier to implicit faith in the validity of both images. 
Suddenly, in one sense, Notre Dame has found itself changed from the simple beauty and imagery of its first century, into one of the great and com­plicated universities that are increas­ingly involved in new and diversified! impacts with a great and complicated world. 
I say "suddenly" but actually die transition was an uncontrolled one that began with \Vorld ^Var I, suffered a frightening digression with the eco­nomic uncertainties of the tliirdes and was plunged into new crises with AVorld ^Var II. It has only been in the years following that period that the transi-. tion has been obvious. " 
And obvious as the new conditions are, even they have also been compli­cated by a surge upward in college population, an explosion of knowledge that has superimposed the problems of space on a world that was far from solving its problems within its own place in our universe. Constantly ris­ing costs, new challenges to education, new demands on leadership, changed attitudes toward organizations anc^ activities and traditions—all have been factors in creating a force that has fragmented the secondary image of Notre Dame as a working university. 
Each of us, in the light of his ex­perience, in the light of his traditions, in the light of his hopes, and in the light of his variously limited contacts, has begun to shape this secondary image as he wishes it to be. And b)t the same introduction of individual judgments he has begun to criticize what he assumes to be departures from this image that he associates as being the one closest to the persisting and primary image of Our Lady. 
I. There are those whose image of Notre Dame is the intimate family campus where student knows student, and students know faculty and priests, where the "one gi'eat fraternity" spirit of Notre Dame is nurtured. 
When this group hears that there art^ now some 6,500 students, living in seventeen residence halls, without morning check, with all night lights, with the possibility of choosing to stay in a hall throughout the undergraduate years, with fewer and fewer members of the Congregation of Holy Cross 
Continued on page 20 * 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 

PRESIDENT-ELECT James E. Armstrong, before his installation, considers a problem ttith his Alumni Office colleagues. Father Thomas J. O'Donnell (left) and John F. Laughlin, at the A.A.C. general conference at Banff, Alta., amid the Canadian Rockies. 

'CORONT^TION' IN CANADA 
A SKIRU OF BAGPIPES btokc into the calm 
deliberations of the June 27 business Tieeting. The 700 delegates to the general :onference of the American .•Mumni Council It BanlT, .•\lberta, Canada, turned to see a ]uick-5tepping procession of the organiza­jon's past presidents led by a kilted, banncr­;wirlin3 C. M. Waldo Johnston, retiring \..A.C. president. 
In an authentic Highland Scottish brogue fohnston introduced "past chieftains'* .-Mfred tIacGuest, George MacCooke, Joseph Mac-Sell, Chesley MacWorthington, Ho\vard VlacMort, Kenyon MacCampbcll, Loren VlacHickerson, etc., gathered to salute the lew "chief of the Clan MacAAC." .•\s he ronferred a tartan tam and a "dirk of eadership" on James MacArmstrong, calling )n the assemblage to raise mace and clay­nore to the new chieftain, it dawned on ;he delegates that Jim .•\rmstrong was being nstalled as president of the Council in the Scottish spirit and tradition of Western t)anada. The ceremony was all the more ippropriate for the fact that .•\rmstrong and fohnston are of true "Scots" ancestry, hailing rom neighboring border clans. 
Jim .-Vrmstrong, genial executive secretar>* of the Notre Dame .Alumni .Association for the past 37 years, \vas hailed with particular warmth since he had returned the presidenc)' of the continent-wide organization to the "West Country" for the first time in five years. He is the first Midwestern president since the 1956-57 term of Howard Mort of the University of Chicago. The past four presidents have been Easterners: Waldo Johnston of Yale, J. .Alfred Guest of .Am­herst, George Cooke of Princeton, and Donald E. Smith of Rochester. The Western trend continues with the induction of Verne Stadtman, managing editor of the Uni­versity of California alumni magazine, as president-elect to succeed President .Arm­strong next year. 
Jim has completed a year on the .A..A.C. executive board as president-elect and will serve for another year as past president after presiding at the Golden Jubilee Con­ference in Atlantic City next summer, at which time the organization will salute "The Individual .Alumnus." 
The .American .Alumni Council is an educational organization specializing in serv­ices in the field of alumni relations and educational fund raising. Its major purpose, as spelled out in its Constitution, is "to mobilize behind education the full strength of organized alumni support in all of its spiritual, moral, and practical manifesta­tions." Membership in the Council is open to universities, colleges and secondary schools in good standing, and to nonprofit associa­tions and organizations whose purposes and activities contribute to the advancement of education. 
As a service organization, the Council aims to help their representatives to increase their professional competence and to raise the le\-el of effectiveness of the alumni and fund­raising programs of its members. It strives also to make the interest of alumni in their own institutions more meaningful and to develop increased understanding and support of education at all levels. 
In 1963, the Council will mark its 50th anniversary, commemorating the date in 1913 when the first of its parent organiza­tions, the .Association of .Alumni Secretaries, was formed in Columbus, Ohio. .Alumni Magazines .Associated came into existence in 1918 J the .Association of .Alumnae Secre­taries in 1919 (absorbed by the .Association of .Alumni Secretaries four years later) ; and the .Association of .Alumni Funds in 1925. In 1927 the three associations combined to form the .American -Alumni Council, with an initial membership representing 249 in­stitutions. 
Today, membership is held by 1,059 in­stitutions and 16 organizations, represented by 2,274 individuals. Members are found in the fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Mexico, eight Canadian prov­inces, Egypt, Japan, Lebanon, Turkey and the Philippine Republic. In 1951, the Coun­cil established a Central OfBce in the .American Council on Education building in Washington, D.C. In November of 1961, the Council moved into its own headquarters building, located at 1707 N Street in north­west Washington. 
The Canadian conference was a doubly auspicious occasion for .A.A.C. President .Armstrong. .At Banff, just before the in­vestiture, Jim and his wife Marian quietly observed their 35th wedding anniversary. 
From banner-bearer Johnston, cushion-bearer Guest, new Chief receives bonnet and exits to "Boimy Laddie." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
millions of volumes yet unwritten in hi ^ 
day. Research has grown by a facto^ 
of hundreds of thousands, if not mil-i

LOOKING BACK AT NEWMAN lions. Over ninety per cent of all the 
By REV. THEODORE M 
(Reprinted from 

W
HEN ANYONE WRFTES about the 
idea of a Catholic university to­

day, or any other day out of the last 
centur)', there is always the temptation 
to repeat in substance what Cardinal 
Newman said in his incomparable clas­
sic on the subject. To suggest that there 
is something new or important to be 
said is to lay oneself open to plenty of 
criticism and even denunciation. 
I am about to take this risk, but be­

fore I do, let me say clearly that New­
man happens to be one of my heroes, 
too. I cannot recall how many times 
I have read and admired his great 
essays on the idea of a university. Yet 
it did occur to me recently, while har­
ried by the many developmental and 
administrative problems that face a 
university president today, that New­
man, in fact, never did create the uni­
versity he wrote about, nor did he have 
to administer it. 
There are many historical reasons to 

explain this, but it remains a fact that 
it is easier to write about what a Cath­
olic university should be than to create 
and administer one in reality — to 
bring the total idea into being. 
There is another cold fact that is often overlooked by those content to concede the last word to Cardinal Newman. Think of what our world is today in comparison with the world in which Newman wrote. Newman fore­saw trouble, but hardly could have imagined all the trouble that actually occurred. Politically, the Pax Britan­nica has been followed by tvvo devastat­ing world wars, and by a militant phi­losophy antithetical to all that New­man's world accepted. This same per­verse philosophy now ruthlessly gov­erns one-third of mankind and covets the rest. We have also seen another third of the world come to new politi­cal independence and strong nationalis­tic autonomy, with the revolution of rising expectations strong in the souls 
of millions. Then there is the Cold War, another modem reality that con­stantly erupts in local volcanic action, as widely separated as Cuba, the Con­go and Vietnam. 
Economically, we have had the In­dustrial Revolution and all of its after­
. HESBURGH, C.S.C, "38 
America Magazine) 
math. Scientifically, there has been yet another revolution which might succes­sively be categorized as the motor and electric age, the nuclear and electronic age, and now, most recently, the space age. Space has shrunk, time is com­pressed: "around the world in eighty days" becomes around the world in eighty-odd minutes. Now for the first time in human histor)' — again viewed not as a few thousand, but some hun­dreds of thousands of years — man can liberate himself from those ancient evils of ignorance, disease, grinding poverty, homelessness and hunger — or he can utterly destroy himself and 
all that he has created in the name of culture and civilization. 
Let us not chide Cardinal Newman for writing in the middle of the 19th century instead of the middle of the 20th. But also let us not assume that what he had to say then, about a hu­man institution in a particular histori­
cal situation, had absolute and uncon­ditioned validity for all such institu­tions in all times. 
Am I sajing that the substance of the Catholic university changes from age to age? By no means. But I am saying that the mission of the Catholic university is also redemptive, and that what needs redeeming today is quite a different kind of world from Newman's. The man to be educated is the same, but what he must be prepared to face is a world unimagined in Newman's day. Newman is still with us, however, for he portrayed the university as "not a convent, not a seminary; it is a place to fit men of the world for the world." Teaching and learning were most essential to Newman's university'. They are still essential today, but what has been learned in certain areas since Newman would fill a new library with 
... A Neip Idea of a Unmrsity?^ 
scientists who have lived during the 
course of human histor)' are living to­
day. And practically all of the be­
havioral scientists in the world's history 
are still alive. Many legitimate new 
academic disciplines are bom each de­
cade, such as astrophysics and cyber­
netics, w 
Something else has taken place in 
recent years, almost without university 
people realizing it. The university has 
been drawn, through its faculty, ad­
ministrators and students, into this new 
world in which we live. University 
people from America are scattered 
everywhere in the world today — 
founding new universities in Asia, 
Africa and Latin America; plannins^ 
the ancient city of Calcutta's new de­
velopment; beginning the first syste­
matic research in rice in the Far East: 
testing the depth of the ice in Ant­
arctica and the composition of the 
earth's crust in the ocean depths; study­
ing native languages in New Guinea; 
planting new breeds of corn in Mexico, 
Colombia and Chile; digging up sub­
human fossil remains in Tanganyika; 
advising a new Nigerian government 
on its legal system; and doing myriadP 
other domestic and foreign tasks un­
dreamed of in Newman's age. 
Should we say that this is bad, that the ivory tower has been defiled, that the government should send all the university people back home? And when they get home, should they be forbidden to confront their students with the monumental and unprece^ dented problems that face modem mar ^ all across the world? Should we keep the university isolated from the chang­ing times and restrict ourselves to de­veloping the idyll of knowledge for knowledge's sake envisioned by New­man? 

I am sure that there are some who would answer: "Yes, by all means." If you do not answer yes, then you have the difficult problem of balancing the university and the times without losing the university in the balance. If thi ^ can be done, then the university, espe­cially the Catholic university, becomes one of the most important institutions of our day. 
To justify this last statement, I must 

4 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
^ ^reveal at least one assumption about the Catholic university with which Newman would heartily agree, as would some of his Anglican contemporaries, especially Dr. Pusey — and, it might be added, the present president of Har­vard, who bears the same name. This assumption is that somehow, some way, theology and philosophy must effec­tively play an important role in the 
-intellectual life of a university in our 
^times. 
Many ask in our day: Why a Cath­olic university? What unique contribu­tion has it to offer? It is no mere chance that Newman, faced in his time with this same question, began to con­sider, first of all, three key subjects: theolog)' as a branch of knowledge, the bearing of theology on other knowledge, and the bearing of other knowledge on 
©theolog)'. I shall not repeat what he had to say on these matters, but 1 do say that his remarks are relevant to­day, indeed even more relevant than they were in his own day, a centur)' ago. 
Someone asked me recently: '"What is the great problem for the Catholic university in our modern pluralistic society?" I was obliged to answer that the modem Catholic university faces 
^ a dual problem. First, because every­thing in a pluralistic society tends to become homogenized, the Catholic uni­versity has the temptation to become like all other universities, with theolog)' and philosophy attached to the aca­demic body like a kind of vermiform appendix, a vestigial remnant, neither useful nor decorative, a relic of the past. If this happens, the Catholic uni­
i0versity may indeed become a great uni­versity, but it will not be a Catholic university. 
The second problem involves under­standing that while our society is called religiously pluralistic, it is in fact, and more realistically, secularistic — with theology and philosophy relegated to a position of neglect or, worse, irrele­vance. Against the strong tide, the Catholic university must demonstrate that all the human problems which it studies are at base philosophical and 
©theological, since they relate ultimately to the nature and destiny of man. The Catholic university must strive mightily to understand the philosophical and theological dimensions of the modem problems that face man today, and once these dimensions are understood, it 
jteiust show the relevance of the philo­sophical and theological approach if 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY commencement in June featured tlie awaidi^ of an hoaorar; degree to Father Hesbui^h by Dr. Herman B. Wells (left), I. U. presidait, and Ralph L. Collins, vice-president and dean of faculties. Father Hcsboigli also leceitej an honorary doctorate from Massachusetts Institute of Technology as coamKnccmcat speaher. 
PURDUE UNIVERSITY President Frederick L. Hovde confers with Fathers Joyce and Hesburgh as a campus guest during the annual golf outing of the Purdue and Notre Dame athletic staffs. Scene is nineteenth hole in The Morris Inn's Maht^any Room. 
adequate solutions are to be found for these problems. 
It goes without saying that the Cath­olic university cannot fulfill this essen­tial function in our day unless it de­velops departments of philosophy and theology as competent as its depart­ments of history, physics and mathe­matics. We cannot adequately under­stand philosophical and theological di­mensions unless we have in the uni­versity talented philosophers and theologians, fully skilled in their science, as cherished as other scholars on the faculty, and deeply involved in the full range of university intellectual en­deavor. At thb point, we might recall with gratitude that Newman did write a book on the development of dogma. 
It has been alleged that the uni­versity is cheaf)ened by contact with modem reality in all its complexity. I would agree, if this means that the university is looked up>on as a kind of service station to train jjeople in super­ficial skills like hair-dressing, fiy-casting and folk-dancing. There are, however, modem realities that fully challenge the university as an institution dedicated to teaching and learning, in the con­text of the age in which it lives. 
Continued on page 20 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 5 

"You are not invited out of the 
world; you are invited into it...." 
TEXT OF THE B.\CCALAURE.-VTE SER.MOX 
Prepaixd for delivcrv' by Tile Most Rev. Paul J. Hallinaii. Archbishop of Atlanta, at the 117tli Annual Commencement Exercises University of Xotrc Dame, June 3, 1962 
"/ do not pray that Thou take them out of the world, but that Thou keep them from evil. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. . . . Even as Thou hast sent Me into the world, so I also have sent them into the world." 
John, 17, 15-18. 
'T'H E YEAR of your graduation, 1962, is not likely to be lost in the 
•*• limbo of "just another year." Whether history' will be kind or 
cruel to it is not ours to know, at least right now. The Second 
Vatican Council has already stamped it with greatness. The sci­
entific break-through reminds us of 1492. The steady crumbling of 
racial barriers in our country may at last make effective what became 
merely legal in 1863. The recent events in the stock market have 
recalled uncomfortably the year of 1929. It is too early to place this 
year in the focus of world events. But it is never too cariy to ex­
amine the task of the educated man in terms of his times. It is 
always urgent for the Church to appraise her young leaders in the 
context of their decade, in the longer view of the century in which 
we live. 
A Catholic bishop's view will always be chiefly pastoral; only by exception will it be academic or professional. But to call a bishop's concern pastoral is not to limit it to the diocese or the parish. It will always be apostolic in its origin, and universal in its horizons. Every Catholic bishop in the world is a successor to the Apostles, and the coming Council is only the historic occasion, not the funda­mental cause, of our universalit>% our Catholic world-mindedness, our deep and lasting concern that our young leaders, our Catholic graduates, you of the Notre Dame class of 1962, are ready for the task. 
Salvation on Main Street 
Only a man who is devoid of Christian hope can look at the world today, and throw up his hands. Only a philosophy that is drained of all meaning can find expression today in a shudder, or worse, a tired yawn. The world into which Our Lord sends us is still the same world in which He makes His constant presence felt. It is a world inhabited by that human society which He Himself did not disdain; from which He refuses to take us, in which His prayer keeps us, not from contact, but only from evil. The flesh is still weak, and must be trained away from sin. The devil is still energetic, and must be exorcised from human hearts. But the world — that third souce of moral trouble — is our world, our homes and our cities, our industry and our labor, our government and our responsibility. Our salvation is from Christ, His death. His Mass and His Sacraments. But we will save our souls, not in the sanctu­ary nor in the confessional. We will save them on Main St., and 
Wall St., and Madison .Avenue, and everj- other thoroughfare in the world — or we will not save them at all. 
That is the objective of our baptism: —grace enough to expel sin and to toughen the moral fiber of our being. That is the ob­jective of our confirmation: strength and wisdom enough to grow to maturit>- as full-time Christians. That is the whole process of our liturgy: to offer God our human efforts, through the headship of His Son, Our Lord; and to draw from the experience of worship th.'it totality of communion with God's presence, and cooperation with His saving power, that we may return to our duties, consecrated and sanctified, to continue our lives and to help the world. 
Your own personal responsibility in this division of churchly labor is well summed up in the term "Christian witness." That is what Christ called us to be — "You shall be witnesses for Me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and even to the verj- ends| of the earth." The word "witness" is almost a definition of the' Catholic layman. In the third century, in the midst of a Christian community which was poor, uneducated, and without great in­fluence, the great African bishop, St. Cyprian, proudly explained what the rudimentary Catholic society must be: "As for us, we are philosophers not in word, but in act; we do not say great things, but we do live them." Much more recently, a French missionary described the "pre-mission" stage of the Church in some areas: "We must be and do, before we talk." The hazards of much speaking and little Christian living were contained in Our Lord's warning to those who often said, "Lord, Lord," but failed to obey Him. The Christian witness must live his faith. There is an urgency about this today that comes only in a time of true crisis. J 
But if the Catholic layman is being repeatedly called to this role by popes and bishops today, does not the university man — the Catholic scholar, the partner in the Catholic intellectual elite, 
— have a special duty? We are entering, in the United States, the long-desired era of the Catholic university graduate. Two centuries of sacrifice and toil for Catholic education are drawing to a close, leaving a glorious record of courage, vision and generosit)-. That record is bearing fruit today in Catholic scholarship, cultural efforts, and intellectual leadership in our society. Our challenge — your challenge — is to continue to penetrate the world of science, and letters, and art, the world of government and trade and commu­nication with Christian principles and with lives of authentic Chris-^ tian charit>-. "The true scholar," said Etienne Gilson in 1927, "is ' essentially a man whose intellectual life is part and parcel of his moral life." 
"The Joy of the Truth" 
This imposes on the Catholic graduate a certain relationship to truth, and to his Church. The pursuit of truth, especially in a society accustomed to rather shabby handling of it, is a difficult occupation. It means much more than honesty in expense accounts and tax pay­ments. It goes farther than basic honesty in our pronouncements on radicals and reactionaries, communists and fascists, and other people we do not like. The search for truth must go on at ever)- humble lev­el: in the laboratory, in books and newspapers, in political speeches,* 
The 
Christian^ Wxtmss 
in 


the World 

By Most Rev. Paul J. Hallinan, D.D., '32 
"The mind was not created 
to be bought and sold...." 
6 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
^ f^ n our own secret thoughts. The mind is a power of the human 
flBoul , and because it is intended by God for a holy purpose, truth, it partakes of a sacred character itself. We know that simony is a grave crime because it is the buying and selling of sacred things. -Are we as aware that the use of the intellect for any sordid purpose 
— the writing of a dishonest advertisement, the twisting of a socio­logical survey, the reading of an evil book — is a certain form of simony? The mind was not created to be bought and sold for un­worthy gain; it was created by God to find out for men the truth about its Creator, and the truths about His creatures. 
St. Augustine spoke of a "gaudium de veritate," the joy of the truth. This joy will warm your lives, and it will warm our world if we do what Augustine urges, "love the intelligence very much." 
^(^otre Dame has, by its instruction, its climate, and its dedication, given you years of specialized practice in the pursuit of truth. If you have come to savor the taste of truth, you will repay that debt by hunting for it, sharing it, living it. 
As graduates of a Catholic university, all of you share this special relationship with truth. To the Catholic members of the class of 1962, I speak of your relationship to the Church. I have mentioned the term, Christian witness. That is our common role, but you as uncommonly educated men, bear the title more know­ingly, more proudly, and at times, more painfully. To bring Christ into your office, your recreation, your home, is not to make a preach­er of you — rather, a witness. It means that the great burden 
^vhich Pope Pius XII placed upon the Catholic laity, the reconsecra­tion of the world, rests proportionately upon your shoulders. -M-ready the Catholic world is aware of the work of lay readers at Mass, lay teachers in our schools, lay catechists in our missions, lay editors and publishers, lay leaders in the St. Vincent de Paul socie­ties and the Legion of Marj*, laymen of influence in parish and diocesan administration, marriage counselling, interracial and eco­nomic conferences, and a score of other areas. 
"The Inseparable Pair" 
We are living, in this respect, as in any other great and exciting historical moment, in both optimism and tension. The optimism ^prings from the spirit of Pope John and his recent predecessors; "ro m the Church's opportunities; but fundamentally from the provi­dential breath of the Holy Spirit over our distracted and discouraged world. But there is a tension too. It rises from areas of uncertainty and lack of clear instruction, as well as from the inertia of old ways and a shortage of tact. If your entrance as a layman into the vital activities of the Church is made with deep faith and due competence, and above all, good humility and good humor, you will be welcomed and ultimately honored. But if it is made with arrogance and im­patience, you will slow down the process that is surely taking place. The increase of the proper role of the laity today, explained and urged by our modem popes, is the result of the mutual efforts of 
fAvhat Cardinal Suhard called, "the inseparable pair—priest and 
"laity, a kind of organic composite, the complete evangelist." None of us can say, in violation of St. Paul's counsel, "I have no need of thee." Pius XII warned us five years ago, "the tasks before the Church today are too vast to leave room for petty disputes." It is a time for mutual effort, each in his proper role, each with his proper grace. It is a time for the collaboration, in the Church, of that "inseparable pair," the Catholic priest and the Catholic layman. 
Economic and political individualism should have died long ago. Intellectual individualism is almost a contradiction in terms. But individualism in the Mystical Body of Our Lord slows the growth and weakens the full vitality. A gifted English prelate. Bishop -Andrew Beck of Salford, said four years ago, in a splendid address on Catholic higher education: "We need to be lifted out of our individualism to catch a glimpse of the grandeur of our work in 
^th c Church." 
To find the truth is a social task beyond the scope of any single human mind. To reconsecrate the world, in the full sense of the phrase, is a mutual work for all concerned — men and women, scholars and workmen, bishops, priests and laity. The Church calls you in a ver>- special way to this double task of finding truth and I making holy the society in which we live. You are not invited out ' of the world; you are invited into it. You are not shielded from the struggle; you are armed and prepared for it. In His last formal #'ftprayer. Our Lord prayed for those whom He was sending into the ' world, to change it and to save it. He was praying for you and me. 
A Season of 
leadership: the Hierarchy 
Action in Atlanta 
A KCHBiSHOP PAUL J. HALLIXAX of Atlanta, first of five Notre •**• Dame priests elevated in the past five years, has achieved national recognition for his efforts in behalf of Catholics attending secular colleges and his concern for Negroes. The .Archbishop has been active in Newman Club work for the past 16 years, and in June, 1962, announced that .Atlanta archdiocesan schools would be desegregated in the fall of 1962. 
Paul Hallinan was bom in Painesville, Ohio, on .April 8, 1911, the son of Clarence and Rose Jan (Laracy) Hallinan, now de­ceased. He attended Cathedral Latin School in Cleveland from 1924 to 1928, and in 1932 he received a B.A .degree from Notre Dame. While at the university he contributed to student literary publica­tions, and in 1931 served as editor of the DOME. During his vaca­tion periods he worked on the Painesville (Ohio) Telegraph. 
-After his ordination in St. John's cathedral in Cleveland on Febmary 20, 1937, he ser\'ed for five years as a curate at St. .Aloysius parish, Cleveland. He then volunteered for ser\-ice as a U.S. Army chaplain and served for three years with the 342nd Engineers Am­phibian Regiment in the South Pacific area. He rose to the rank of captain and was decorated with the Purple Heart in New Guinea in June, 1944. Upon leaving military service in December, 1945, Father Hallinan was an assistant at St. John's cathedral, Cleveland, for two years. For the next 10 years he served part time on the faculty of Notre Dame College, South Euclid, Ohio, and St. John's College in Cleveland. 
His interest in the Newman aposlolate began in 1946 when he became Cleveland diocesan director of intercollegiate Newman Club activities. He held this post for the next 12 years, until his appoint­ment as a bishop. He is a past president of the National Newman Club Chaplains -Association and from 1952 to 1954 was chaplain of the National Newman Club Federation. From 1954 to 1958 he was a member of the advisory board of the Newman Honor Society. Despite his numerous Newman Club activities, Father Hallinan took graduate studies at John Carroll University, Cleveland, and received his M..A. in American history in 1953. He was working for his doctorate in -American history at Western Reserve University in Cleveland when he was notified of his appointment September 9, 1958, as Bishop of Charleston, N. C. 
He was consecrated in St. John's cathedral, Cleveland, on October 28, 1958, by -Archbishop (now Cardinal) .Amleto Cicognani, who was then Apostolic Delegate to the U.S., and was enthroned by -Archbishop Francis P. Keough of Baltimore, on November 25, 1958, in St. John the Baptist cathedral, Charleston. 
On February 21, 1962, Pope John XXIII announced establish­ment of the new ecclesiastical province of Atlanta, embracing the Dioceses of Atlanta, Raleigh, St. Augustine, Miami, Savannah, Charleston and -Abbacy Nullius of Belmont, N. C. Bishop Hallinan was named the first Archbishop of the Metropolitan See of Atlanta. He was enthroned in the Cathedral of Christ the King in -Atlanta on March 29, 1962, by -Archbishop Egidio Vagnozzi, .Apostolic Delegate to the U. S. 
Noire Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 

GEORGE N. BEAMER, SR., '29, had a formidable cheering section of HooUer l^islators in his comer at congressional hearings on his appointment by President Kennedy as a Federal District Judge for Northern Indiana. Conferring (from left) are Rep. John Brademas of South Bend, Mrs. Bcanier, Senator Vance Hartke, Judge Beamer, and Senator Homer Capehart. Judge Beamer has practiced law in Ind-ana for 33 years. 
WILLIAM B. JONES, '28 (center), confers with Senators Mike Mansfield (left) and Lee Metcalf at hearings on Jones' appointment by President Kennedy to the Federal Court of the District of Columbia. Judge Jones has knou-n both Montana Democrats since he was a football coach and lawyer in Helena. 
STEPHEN J. ROTH, '28, was appointed by the President as U.S. Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, serving in the Northern Division at Flint, Mich. A lawyer since 1935, Judge Roth served ten years as judge of Michigan's 7th Circuit, was also a prosecutor and attorney general of Michigan. 
AN IRISH 'RUN' on the FEDERAL COURTS 
"YJT/iTHiN-A SHORT time last spring three 
^ ^ more Notre Dame men were named by President Kennedy to the Federal Bench, quickly confirmed by the United States Senate, and added to an impressive list of alumni in the Federal Judiciary. 
This form of national service promises to match the leadership that Notre Dame men already claim in such fields as national politics (Notre Dame men have been nation­al chairmen of both major political parties) and national securit>' (more graduates as agents of the Justice and Treasury Depart­ments than any other school). 
Hox. GEORGE N . BEAMER, SR., LL.B. '29, was app>ointed Judge of the U.S. District Court of Northern Indiana. At Senate hear­ings under the chairmanship of Sen. Edward Long of Missouri, Sen. R. Vance Hartke (D-Ind.) urged approval of the Beamer nomination, calling him ''a nominee of tremendous background and high caliber" 
A Season 
of Leadership: The Judiciary 
who has practiced law in Indiana for 33 years '*with honor, ethics, success and dis­tinction." Judge Beamer has been a membe^ of the South Bend law firm of Crumpacker, May, Beamer, Le\y & Searer, with which his son, George, Jr., is associated. One of the partners is former Congressman Shep Crumpacker. 
Ho.N. WILLIAM B. JONES, A.B. '28, LL.B. '31, was confirmed by the Senate in .April as a U.S. Judge for the District of Columbia. A guard and freshman football coach as a student, he went to Helena, Montana as coach for Carroll college, then as a full-time attorney, finally as special assistant attome;)^ general. It was there that he met Montana's Senator Mansfield, now majority leader, then a history professor at the state university. He went to Washington in 1937 and ser\'ed as an attorney for the Justice Department, the O.P.A. and the State Department. Since 1946 he has been a partner and trial special­ist for the firm of Hamilton & Hamilton, and he is president of Washington's John Carroll Society. He and his wife .Alice have a daughter, Barbara, just graduated from the Newton College of the Sacred Heart, Newton, Mass. 
HON. STEPHEN J. ROTH, Ph.B. '31, waW appointed U.S. District Judge for Eastern Michigan early in May. Bom in Hungar>', he came to the U.S. at the age of 5, com­pleted his legal education at the University of Michigan. First a bank teller and auto­mobile factory worker, he has been a lawyer since 1935. He was elected prosecutor in Flint, Mich., before service in North .Africa and Italy during World War II. Returning, he alternated private practice and public service, scr\'ed as attorney general of MichA igan from 1948 to 1950, was appointed to the Genesee County Circuit Court by Gov­ernor Williams in 1952 and re-elected three times since then. In 1955 he was an un­successful nominee for the Supreme Court. He and wife Evelyn have five children, Diane, Susan, Kayla, Charles and Bradford. 
AHOY N. D. SAILORS: 
NOW HEAR THIS! 
Would all the alumni who are now on active duty with the Navy please send their name, rank and present duty station to the Professor of Naval Science, NROTC Unit, University of Notre Dame? This information is needed for the purpose of estab­lishing a list of Notre Dame alumni who are now in the Naval Service. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
of radio, it won plaudits from the critics. 

j^iiiterature 
The Last Hurrah, a robust fictional life of an Irish political boss in Boston, was a run­away best seller. It was made into a movie starring Spencer Tracy and Pat O'Brien. 

Pulitzer Prize 
A bachelor, Ed lives on Boston's Beacon 

for Fiction 
•yj^HEX EDWIN- O'Connor, '39. was an­** nounced as ihc winner of the 1962 Pulitzer Prize for Bction with his novel The 
^^dge of Sadness, a lot of readers were gladdened who had wondered how he could possibly have missed the award with a previ­ous novel, the delightful Last Hurrah. The Hction prize was the first in that medi­um among Notre Dame men with Pulitzer credits, including a reporting prize for Ed Mower}*, '28, and a drama prize for a play adapted from The Teahouse of the August Moon by Vcrn Sneider. 
I 
Ed O'Connor is a tall, ruggedly hand­some Irishman. A native of Providence, R. I,, he went from Notre Dame to work as 
J i radio announcer in Providence, Palm Beach, Buffalo and Hartford. In World War II he ser\'ed as a Coast Guard information 
officer, and since 1946 he has devoted all his time to writing books and contributing 
Diplomacy 
EDWIN O'CONNOR, '39 For "Edge of Sadness," the latest Hurrah 
to newspapers, magazines, radio and tele­vision. His first novel, The Oracle^ was published in 1951. A satirical storj' about the world 
Street and continues writing fiction that glorifies rather than degrades humanity. "I happen to believe," he once said, "that we're all made in the image of God." 

Cartoonist Al Capp, in a recent syndicated column, claimed to be the first to rec­ognize O'Connor as Pulitzer material. Bitter about radio after being panned for a per­formance by a critic named Roger Swift ("I hoped to meet Roger . . . and give him something swift"), he was asked to review The Oracle, agreed with its comments on radio, and wrote: "Edwin O'Connor may yet be among the first names in .American literature, and, not many novels from now, I predict the Pulitzer Prize." The editor deleted his prediction, but O'Connor soon showed up in Capp's Boston studio to thank him for the review and ask about the technicalities of cartooning for research on a new novel. Capp helped him and asked what he did besides writing novels. O'Con­nor replied, "I write radio reviews for a Boston newspaper under the name of Roger Swift." 
TROUBLE SHOOTER IN GHANA 
'TpHE PRESIDENT of the Notrc Dame Alumni •*• .Association was absent from the annual .Alumni Banquet in June and wired his re­grets. William P. Mahoney, Jr., '38, ap­proved by the Senate in May as the new 
U.S. ambassador to Ghana, was in Wash­
ingto n for a final briefing from President John F. Kennedy before his departure for .Accra, capital of the five-year-old West .African nation, to assume perilous duties in a strange new land. 
Bill, his wife Alice and the Mahoneys' seven children made feverish preparations for their journey to Africa, which involved leaving their Arizona home, schools, and friendships for an unfamiliar life in the U.S. Embassy at .Accra. Bill leaves a career as a Phoenix la\V)-er, choirmaster, political leader and public servant. The last two facets of his background had a part in his selection by President Kennedy and should ser\'e him well in the new job. 
V Manager of the Kennedy presidential campaign in Arizona, Bill is himself a veteran of the political wars. He sen'cd four years as Maricopa County Attorney and two as Assistant Attorney General of .Arizona. Graduated from the Notre Dame Law School in 1940, the former Varsity athlete was the University's head track coach for two years and is expected to ex­
>^.end the Kennedy physical fitness program to West .Africa. He served as a naval oflicer during World War II, ending as a prose­cutor of Na\-y war crimes cases in the Pacific. .A director of the National Con­
ference of Christians and Jews, he has ser\'ed in many other civic and religious or­ganizations. His legal reputation as a cham­pion of the rights of minorities is said to be the determining fac:or in his appointment as ambassador to Ghana. 
Bill succeeds Ambassador Francis Russell in Ghana, formerly the Gold Coast, an .African member of the British Common­wealth of Nations. The countn- has a population of about five million and is sandwiched between Upper Volta, the Ivor}­Coast and Togo. It gained its independence in 1937, holds free elections and is ruled by a unilateral National .Assembly, headed by Prime Minister Kwame Nkrumah, a U.S.­educated Marxist, and his cabinet. Two days after gaining independence, Ghana became the 81st member of the United Nations. It is a vital and sensitive area because of its leadership among neutral or "uncommitted" nations and its prime minister's ambitions for a united .Africa. 
Thus Ghana has joined Chile and other nations inhabited by NJJ. Peace Corpsmcn, in the University's diplomatic "sphere of influence." 
HON. WILLIAM P. MAHONEY, JR., '38, new United Sutes Ambassador to Ghana, as he appeared !n three career stages (from left): Notre Dame track coach and fledglms Arizona lawyer; W.W. II naval o65cer and Pacific war crimes prosecutor; Aiizona political leader for John F. Kennedy and president of the N.D. Alimini Associatioii. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 • 9 
News of the 
NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL 
The Notre Dame Law .Association spon­sored a conference on "The Trial Lawyer —1952" from Wednesday to Friday of the Reunion Week End. The speakers included celebrated lawj-ers and judges from all over the countr)'. Chief Judge Desmond of the New York Court of .\ppcals, a member of the Law .Advisor)- Council, moderated the panel on the "Trial of Criminal Cases." The panelists were Edward Bennett Wil­liams of Washington and Paul W. \Villiams of New York. -Assistant Dean Broderick 
moderated the panel on "Preparation and Technique in the Trial of Negligence .Ac­itions" and participants included Emile Zola -Berman of New York. The panel on the ""Trial of .Antitrust Suits" was headed by Mr. Lee Loev'inger, .Assistant United States Attorney General in charge of the .Anti­trust Division. 
Father Hesburgh welcomed the panelists at dinner at the Morris Inn on Wednesday evening. Professor Charles W. Joiner of the University of Michigan Law School spoke at the luncheon on Thursday and Dean O'Meara addressed the closing lunch­eon on Friday. 
The entire program was arranged by Judge William B. Lawless, '44L, of Buffalo, President of the Notre Dame Law .Asso­ciation, and two of the .Association's di­rectors, Mr. Valentine B. Deale, '39, of 
Waic/i}(}/
men jffH 

Washington and Mr. Camille F. Gravel, Jr., '35, of .Alexandria, Louisiana. 
LAW HONORS B.ANQUET 
The President of the .American Bar .Asso­ciation, Mr. John G. Satterfield, was the featured speaker at the Law Honors Ban­quet on May 7. This annual affair affords an opportunit)- to salute the members of the graduating class and to recognize the achievements of all members of the student body who have distinguished themselves in one way or another. In addition, as in each of the last three years, it \tas the occasion for a joint obser\-ance of L.AW D.AY USA by the Notre Dame Law School and the St. Joseph County Bar Association. Mr. Satterfield's %-isit marked the fifth consecu­tive year in which the I^w Honors Banquet has been addressed by the President of the American Bar Association. Mr. Sylvester 
C. Smith of Newark, who will succeed Mr. Satterfield in the presidency of the Amer­ican Bar Association, has agreed to address the Law Honors Banquet next year. 
CONGR.ATUL.ATIONS 
William B. Jones, '31L, of Washington, D.C., and George N. Beamer, '29L, of South Bend, Indiana, have been appointed to the Federal District bench. 
Mr. William P. Mahoney, '40L, of Phoenix, Arizona, has been appointed .Am­bassador to Ghana. 
Law Review Conference 
The Eighth National Conference of Law Reviews was held at Notre Dame in April. Conference members included all of the better law reviews of the countr)-. Fifty 
The Story Everybody Will Want To Read: JOE BOLAND - NOTRE DAME MA N 
Edited by PEG BOLAND 
A unique storj' of the man who was tlie Radio Voice of Notre Dame — N D tackle, honor student, football coach, radio and T V personality and one of the nation's top sportcasters. 
Here is Joe Boland, personal and immediate as seen by his friends . . . 
Richard Sullivan and Francis Wallace, novelists . . . Bing Crosby . . . Tim Cohane, Sports editor of LOOK magazine . . . Warren Brown, Sports editor of the CHICAGO AMERICAN . . . Harvey Foster, F.B.I.. New York . . . Clarence Manion, Bud Wilkinson, Terry Brennan, and many others. 
ca 200 pages. 12 illustrations Price: $3.50 PUBLICATION DATE: SEPTEMBER 7 
Send your orders now. If accompanied by your check, we'll send the book postage free. 
Send me copies of JOE BOLAND—NOTRE DAME MAN. 
Name-
Address-
Check Enclosed D Bill Me D SOLD BY DIRECT AAAIL ONLY 
N. S. P. PUBLISHING CO. - 6225 Moraine Ave. - Hammond. Ind. 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
law schools were represented at the meeting^ The principal speaker at the annual ban" quet was Mr. Burke Marshall, Assistant United States Attorney General in charge of the Civil Rights Division. 
Legal Careers Seminar 
.A Legal Careers Seminar sponsored by the Young La%vyers Section of the Indiana State Bar .Association was presented at the Notre Dame Law School in March. Three members of the panel were Notre Dame .Alumni, namely, Edward L. Burke, '54L,_ 
H. Charles Winans, '58L, and James Stew-^ art Taylor, '60L. 
FACULTY 
Professor Thomas F. Broden has been elected President of the South Bend Dean­ery of the Catholic Interracial Council. Professor Broden is Chairman of the South Bend Fair Employment Practices Com­mission, appointed by the Mayor. 
.Assistant Dean Broderick addressed the Niles City Club in April. 
Professor Wagner spoke on the Visitin g Lecturers' Program of the .Air Force In­stitute of Technology at Dayton. His lec­ture, delivered in April, ivas on "Peaceful Settlement of International Disputes." 
Professor Harris L. Wolford, Jr., who is on leave of absence, resigned as Special Assistant to the President in May and was immediately appointed Special Representa­tive for the Peace Corps in .Africa. He will make his headquarters in Addis .Ababa and will be in immediate charge of the Ethio­pian Program, which involves 300 sec­ondary school teachers. In addition, he will have over-all supervision of all PeaciA Corps projects in .Africa. '\ 
Professor Noonan addressed a seminar on Modem Intellectual History at Barnard College in .April. His subject was "Rules and Purposes: The Concept of Law in Na­tural Science and in Jurisprudence." In addition he gave the second in a series of lectures at the University of Chicago deal­ing with the Limits of Liberal Education. The title of his lecture was "The Responsi­bility of the College for the Values of Its Students." ^ 
Professor Ward and Dean O'Meara at­tended a meeting at the Supreme Court in May of the .Advisory Committee on .Ap­pellate Rules of the Judicial Conference of the United States. Professor Ward is Re­porter for the Committee, by appointment of Chief Justice Warren, and Dean O'­Meara is a member. Later in the same month Dean O'Meara attended the Na­tional Law and Electronics Conference at UCL.A. The three-day conference explored in depth the possible use of electronic data retrieving mechanisms in legal research. 
 MISCELLANEOUS 
The 1961 Symposium Issue of the • Lawyer, containing the papers presented at the Symposium on "Next Steps to E.xtend the Rule of Law," was favorably reviewed in the May, 1962, issue of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. 
William .A. Loy, '38L, of Covington, Indiana, has been made a member of the law firm of Wallace and Wallace in that^V city. 

•MAN and the MOMENT 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C. 

T
HE OLD PATRIARCH, Father Sorin, was only 59 years old in 1873. A fellow countryman. Father Lemonnier, was the President of 
^ Notre Dame. The evidence seems to point, however, to Father Sorin as the man behind the scenes. He was the Oven Bird of those years. The Oven Bird, you will recall from Robert Frost, was "the singer everyone has heard . . . who makes the solid tree trunks sound again." This Father Sorin did. It was a great little community in those days 
— just as it is today — but the man with the long beard and piercing eyes ' was the master no matter what title someone else held. This was true in putting up the church. The old books say Father Ale.xis Granger built the church. So he did. It was to him that Father Sorin had committed the work. But when the old master decided he did not like the plans for the church 
— out they went. Father Granger had a man named Patrick Keely, a re­nowned architect, draw up the plans. He drew the plans after the Gesu in 
9 Rome. This would be Baroque. But Father Sorin, on a return trip from France, looked in the small money till and decided on a Gothic church that would cost only half as much. 
It is not for me to propose old Father Sorin as the patron of fund raisers. I'm sure the centuries before him had more than enough. But he did have a way with him ... a way of getting money away from others. 
The question of the cost of the Tabernacle for the new church came up frequently. Some thought it was to cost too much. In a December issue of the Scholastic (1873) a man wrote an article and signed it E.S. That was the Oven Bird himself. "We have been asked how much the new Tabernacle would cost. AVe answer the question the more readily, from the fact that the price alone of this real monument of art and religion will be, to all our friends, a clear evidence that their con­tributions were not solicited for an ordinary object; common things we try to do ourselves; but when we call on our acquaintances for any aid or help, we mean to give them a just cause to feel proud of their co-operation and liberality." 
I like the way he says that. And what he says is very true today: "com­mon things we try to do ourselves." He was not content to let things go at that. Here are some excerpts: "^Vhen the numerous donors, whose names shall have been engraved on the gold plates, will see what has been ac­complished by their personal, and com­paratively moderate, subscriptions, in a joint effort, they will rejoice at a result so far above the reach of any solitary exertions. 
"Such is the working of association; and a trifle which everyone spares wth ease and pleasure, when multiplied by hundreds and thousands soon amounts to a surprising sum, sufficient to obtain wonderful effects. Let these feeble efforts be directed properly, and they will accomplish noble deeds and all share in their merits. 
"Meanwhile we go on with our work of faith, without the least fear to hear on our way the old Judaic reproach: 'Ut quid perditio haec?' —'Why this waste of money?' For we are told that whilst our Blessed Saviour was lying in a manger, the son of Herod reposed in a silver bed. We simply believe that it is time we should treat our Divine Redeemer differently, and that, to strengthen our hopes to be 'received by Him in His eternal Tabernacle' we should try to leave Him no longer on the straw of Bethlehem, but as far as in our power, to anticipate upon earth, something of the eternal residence Himself has revealed by His angel." 
The Tabernacle is, indeed, beautiful. I have often thought of the many hands that have reached to open the Tabernacle doors and lift out a cibor­ium. Over the years thousands upon thousands of Hosts have come from within those doors to bring God's Body-to thousands of Notre Dame men. Many a hand that reached for Hinr. will reach for Him no more; and many a heart that welcomed Him has gone to-that other shore. They built for us^ these men of the past, so that we might carry on and have great dreams and build again. We of the present are the porters and the guardians of a great heritage. Each of us is a "porter of a Httle door no higher than a man's reach in the sky." Each of us, and each in his own way, is called upon to "make the solid tree tnmks sound again." 

WE ARE FREQUENTLY ASKED ABOUT HAVING MASSES OFFERED ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
Masses are promptly offered by Holy Cross Priests on the Notre Dame Campus in: 
The Main Church — Sacred Heart Church The many Chapels in the basement Church The Altars in Corby Hall In the chapels of 17 Residence Halls 
Priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross are most happy to take care of your intentions. 
Please send Mass intentions to: 
Superior of Corby Hall 
c/o Rev. Ferdinand Brown, C.S.C. 
University of Notre Dame 
Notre Dame Indiana Alumni OfEce 

c/o Rev. T. J. O'Donnell, C.S.C. 
University of Notre Dame 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 IM 

Bridge Whiz Jocoby Piciied up the Game Not from His Daddy But from Notre Dome 
Jim Jacoby, '57, of Dallas, Texas, is one of the outstanding young stars in the world of tournament bridge. De­spite his famous father's influence, Jim did not take up bridge until he became a student at Notre Dame. Interrupting his studies for a two-year hitch in the Army, he rapidly became a Life Master, the golden goal of bridge players, and since graduation has continued his winning wa)'s to pile up more than 2,500 master points, currently ranking about 35th in that department among the bridge stars of the countr)-. His wife Judy, a sister of Tom Mudd, '61, has lately take nup bridge also, and with Jim's father and mother she has won several important Team-of-Four titles in top-flight competition. She will also become a Life Master before very long. 
Oswald Jacoby, Jim's father, is a familiar name wherever cards are played. He took part in the historic Culbertson-Lenz bridge battle of the 
MORE ALUMNI TO VIEW FRESHMAN 
•CARDTRICKS" 
This fall the spirited freshman card stunt section is moving to the nortli end zone of the stadium, thus enabling 95% of the Irish fans to see this color­ful display of student spirit. 
The show is performed by the root­ers simultaneously flashing checker­board-size cards which blend, when viewed from a distance, into a pre­conceived design. The stunts are first sketched on special graph paper (each square representing a person) and the instruction card for each seat is then stamped with the appropriate color. At half time the individual raises the in­dicated color upon the stunt director's signal. This procedure can be em­ployed for animated effects by using various timing tricks and alternating the flash sequence of portions of the section. A variation last year for the Navy game had a Midshipman pic­tured slowly sinking as each row, starting from the bottom, successively flipped to blue. Some other eye catchers 
12 NotTt Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
THE WIZARDS OF "OZ" is an apt name for this formidable all-family teani-of-four in the world of tournament of bridge, made up of Jim Jacoby, '37; his wife, Judy; his mother, Alary Zita; and his father and the top living bridge master, the legendary Oswald "Ozzic" Jacoby of Dallas, Tex. 
early Thirties and has been a leading star ever since, even while popularizing the Latin American game canasta. Last year, for the second time he captured the coveted McKenney Trophy, award­ed annually to the bridge player ac­cumulating the most master points in a single year. Son Jim came in fifth in that race. Recently "Ozzie" took over the top spot in the master point rating of championship bridge players, breaking Charles Goren's 17-year grip on that position, when the Contract Bridge League announced the total 
displayed were falling rain, the moon moving through its phases and a beer mug being filled from a tap. 
The card stunts were first conceived three years ago by two freshmen, Tim Haidinger and Phil Amend. They over­came many initial difficulties and with much hard work made their 1960 debut an immense success. The fall of 1961 saw a much improved show due to re­finements in organization and better co-operation from the student body. 
Just two years after conception, the committee felt that it had reached its full potential at its present site in the student area of the stadium. It now sought to find a place where the maxi­number of master points at 6,530 for 
Jacoby to 6,510 for Goren. 
Jim's mother Mar>' Zita, former, Texas, Southwest and National public parks tennis champion, decided the distaflT side could hold its own at bridge too, so she became a Life Master and more than holds her own as a member of the Jacoby team. The other Jacoby son, Jon, '59, after Navy Reserve officer duty, is pursuing studies at the Harvard Graduate School of Business .Adminis­tration. His bridge activities at this time are a deep secret. 
• 

mum number of fans could see the 
show, at the same time enlarging the section in size and presentation. 
Initial plans were to have an inte-^ grated Notre Dame and St. Mary's cheering section. A poll was taken and the results showed that the majority of the upperclassmen at both schools pre­ferred to remain in the traditional A separated seating arrangement. Another round of meetings and planning ses­sions ensued this spring and finally a plan was approved by both administra­tions whereby the freshmen of the t\vo schools would sit together in the new rooting section. 
Permission was secured from Herb Jones, Athletic Department head, to use the north end zone of the stadium and to admit the students of a gen­eral seating plan. The section was ex­panded from 1,050 to 1,380 students % and changed its shape from an un­artistic square to a cinemascope rec­tangle. 
The most significant change, engi­neered by Dick Stritter, the present chairman, and his committee, con­sists of using freshmen exclusively in f^ the section. ^ 
Fr. Forrcstal, '13 Fenlon, '19 Schubmchl, '21 Fr. Ward, '23 Wither,'26 
Motif rn Languages English Engynefnng Mechanics Philosophy Commwkieation Ajts 
Kolupaila 
Civil Engineering 

UNIVERSITY HONORS NINE PROFESSORS AT RETIREMENT 
The retirement of nine University of Notre Dame faculty members and the promotion of thirty-four others were announced in May. The University also honored nine men who are obser\'­ing their 25th anniversary' of teaching at Notre Dame. 

^ Black and gold chairs, monogram­med with the Notre Dame emblem, were presented to those retiring from the University's classrooms. They are: Herbert J. Bott, marketing manage­ment: Paul I. Fenlon, English; Rev. Peter P. Forrcstal, C.S.C, modem lan­guages; John T. Frederick, English; Steponas Kolupaila, civil engineering; Paul M. NastucofT, mathematics; 
tiRaymond J. Schubmehl, assistant dean of engineering; Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, philosophy; and James A. Withey, communication arts. 
Ten men were ele\'ated to full pro­fessorships. They are: Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C, dean of the Graduate School; Henry H. Carter, modem lan­guages; Vincent P. De Santis, historj-; Stefan Drobot, mathematics; Alvan S. Ryan, English; Rev. Albert L. Schlit­zer, C.S.C, thcolog)'; Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C, dean, College of Arts 
fland Letters; Thomas J. Stritch, com­munication arts; Bernard J. Ward, law; and Kwang-tsu-Yang, mechanical engineering. 
Those promoted to the rank of as­sociate professor include: Peter T. Brady, accountancy; Joseph X. Bren­
^nan , English; James J. Carberr)', chem­
- ical engineering; Rev. Raymond F. 
Cour, C.S.C, political science; Fred­erick J. Crosson, General Program; Sperry E. Darden, physics; Conrad L. Kellenberg, law; Robert P. Mcintosh and Kenyon S. Tweedell, biology; Fredrick B. Pike, history; Francis H. Raven, mechanical engineering; Vin­cent R. RajTnond, business organiza­tion and management; Sherman Sha­piro, finance and business economics; Vincent J. Traynelis, chemistry; Rob­ert J. Waddick, guidance and testing; and Stephan A. Worland, economics. 
Promotions to assistant professor were announced for Thomas DeKo­ninck and A. Edward Hanier, phi­
DINING HALL CHIEF RETIRES 
The University iias announced the retirement of David C. Ford as its director of food service and dining halls and the appointment of Gilbert 
P. Vohni as his successor. Dave Ford joined the Notre Dame staff in 1943 after eighteen years' experience with Swift and Company. He has been re­sponsible for the preparation and serv­ing of approximately 13,000 meals daily on the campus. The University's food service numbers about 373 full-time employees, and these arc aug­mented by approximately 230 part-time student workers during the regular school year. Foid is. a graduate of Cornell University. Vohni, with degrees from Penn State and Florida State, has supervised dining at Tennessee, Mary­land and Vanderbilt University. 
losophy; Frank J. Fahey, sociology; Robert C Hayes and Rev. Joseph L. Walter, C.S.C, chemistry; Rev. Wil­liam J. Hegge, C.S.C, theology; Ran­dolph J. Klawiter, modem languages; and James E. Ward, history. 
Honored for twenty-five years' serv­ice to Notre Dame were: Robert L. Anthony, physics; Brother Colimiba Curran, C.S.C., and Patrick A. Mc-Cusker, chemktry; James Dincolo and Bernard B. Finnan, accountancy; John James Fitzgerald, philosophy; Mat­thew A. Fitzsimons, history; Edward R. Quinn, guidance and testing; and Law­rence F. Stauder, electrical engineering. 
DAVID C. FOM) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 13 

Reunion 
PRELIMINARIES included "The Trial Lawyer—1962," three-day professional conference held by the 
Sketches 
N.D. Law Association (see Law News), and annual Monogram Day, shown here. At left, three great decades of Irish athletics are represented by Monogram Club officers (I.-r.): Sec'y.-Treas. Bill Earlcy, '43; Prcs. Larry "Moon" Mullins. '31; Past Pres. Chuck Sweeney, '38; A'icc-Pres. Frank "Rangy" Miles, '22. 
0 

^c>  m  
REGISTRATION al La%v School admitted alumni to hall class headquarters, golf tourney, bars, class dinners and a host of reunion events. Signing in a platoon of eager grads at lower right, Margaret Boggs, secretary' to Jim Armstrong, and John H. Janowski, editor of NOTTIE DAME Magazine, show new-full color maps as guides to new campus.  <3^  GOLF DAY is primarily "nineteenth hole" for these former Notre Dame athlets, most of whom need no identification. Standouts in a crowd dominated by footballers arc a mathematician turned baseball coach and a basketball star turned bank president.  <:>  

TVrDtrc Dame Men, as loyal and clannish  
^ as college men can get (witness 180  
fantastically active volunteer alumni chap­ 
ters around the world), are nonetheless su­ 
premely individualistic. They fit no mold,  
wear no unifonn (externally or internally),  
tolerate no shibboleths or secret handshakes.  
.And heaven help the outsider who measures  
them in stcreotvpes.  
.. .  •  
Similarly Xoire Dame Classes, although  
tightly united in their loyalty to the Lady  
on the Dome, have distinct personalities.  
They will not be regimented into pro­ 
grammed conformity. This makes for a  
"loose" reunion schedule but some exciting  
individual Class expression. It is these Class  
"personalities" we will try to capture on  
these and subsequent pages, with a few  ^  
words and a lot of pictures.  
Notre  Dame  Alumnus,  August,  1962  

12 
THE GOLDEN GALLANTS, thanks principally to the relentless cajoling of Secretary Ben Kaiser, brought a "representative" handful, but their ranks were not supplemented by the usual 50-Year Clubbers. Missing were names like Ferstel, Jamicson, ^Iertcs, etc., but there were toasts in the Golfers' Lounge, roll calls at the Library. 
"MEN OF DISTINCTION" seemed always poised to pose for a Calvert ad, whether dining in bucolic serenity at the home of Bemie VoU or gathering their distinguished company for the traditional formal portrait on campus. 
The Cbsses 
ELEGANT .VND EXCLUSIVE were the arrangements of the able committee appointed by Secretary Kid Ashe, but the exuberance belied a forty-year absence as they dined a la carte at the Inn or refreshed in the privacy of comer suites upstairs. 
22 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 15 

HAUNTED BY GLORY, the famed 35-Year Class gathered to mourn such departed giants as the late Joe Boland and Paul Butler, and to rejoice in such enduring symbols as dauntless David Van Wallace, returning cheerful as ever after nearly forty years of ennervating 
'27 

paralysis and appearing young enough to matriculate again. At left. Van and some fans converse at the Class Dinner Friday in the Inn's Trustees' Room. 
Reunion Sketches 
The Classes 
HONORED BY HIERARCHY, the 30-ycar delegation enjoyed a unique distinction. With more high clergy in its ranks than any other reunion unit, it had the presence of newly enthroned Archbishop Paul Hallinan of Atlanta, shown at dinner in the Mahogany Room (right) and at center of class portrait It also had its own edition of the Farmer's Almanac 
'32 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 

SHAMELESS SHUTTERBUGS cocktailed at the "Rock," snapped hundreds of Polaroid pix (like sampling below) as souvenirs and/or evidence. 
'37 

SILVER JUBILEE CLASS was less formal than 
sonic 23-year groups of the past. At dinner (standing, l.-r.) workers Jerry Claeys, Joe Quinn, 
•Harry Koehler, Mike Brias, Tim Waite, Tom Luckey, M Schwartz and Karl King greet (seated: l.-r.) Father Joyce, favorite profs Lee Flatley, Wes Bender. 
G.I. JOES of the 20-Year-CIass lined up for their group photo (below) in semi-military fashion. They seemed to do almost everything the Army way, like picking "volunteers" (right) to help Secretary Bill Hickey with officer chores over the next five years. These and other "winners" will be announced. 
'42 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 17 

"THE FRACTURED QUACKERS" were sparsely represented in spite of Secretary Jack Miles' brave effort to combat 
the schizophrenia of the first really postwar Class, apotheosized by their own mascot, "ThorNDike." 
A satire on the W. W. II "ruptured duck," the mangled mallard with a black thorn symbolized a combination 
of youthful verie and veterans' cynicism shown by the rollicking remnant here. 
'47 
GOLFING GOURMETS mustered a percentage of their 200-plus for the Class picture but had a much larger delegation at the meals. Those culinary delights, as well as the midnight snacks and other refreshments, were the work of tireless local chairman Wally Purccll, who also promoted attendance. 
The Classes 
"FIVE-YEAR LOCUSTS" might have been a better name for the '57 varieties (left) as they swooped down on their picnic buffet ^ in Dillon Court. They vied with their ten-year neighbors in many areas, " edging them out in the suds consumption sweepstakes and in the golf department, 3-2. Effort in both categories explains the 30%' turnout for the Class photo. 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1962 
EDUCATION FOR RESPONSIBILITY combined the traditional open houses of the colleges with reports on their progress and prospects. Not shown: Arts & Letters Dean Fr. Charles Sheedy. 
DEAN ROSSINI OF SCIENCE DEAN GAY OF ENGINEERING DEAN CULLITON, BUS. ADMIN. 
Reunion Sketches 
ALUMNI BANQUET joined front-and-centcr faculty and administration, wall-to-wall alumni, 1,000 strong. 
9 /^.i 

CAMPUS "BR/\SS" surveyins 
^included (background, l.-r.): Jim Armstrong, Alumni Secretary; Fr. Edmund Joyce, Executive Vice-President; Fr. Charles McCarragher, Student Affairs Vice-President; Dr. Frederick Rossini, Dean of Science; Dr. James Culliton, Dean of Business Administration; Fr. George Holderith, Golf Pro; (at right) Dr. Noniian Gay, Dean of Engineering; Fr. Chester Soleta, Academic Vice-President; Fr. Jerome Wilson, Business Vice-President; guest Harry Stuhldrchcr, and Fr. Hesburgh. 
ALUMNI MASS, celebrated by Father Joyce, was held on Pentecost Sunday at Sacred Heart Church. The sermon was preached to alumni and Sacred Heart 
'Vparlshloners by Rev. William J. McAuliffe, C.S.C., '37, then pastor. Thus ended the 1962 Class Reunions. 
STUHLDREHER (inset) represented 
U. S. Steel and an­nounced his company's $100,000 five-year grant in recognition of the university's present academic stature. 

Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1962 
Looking Back at Newman 
Continued from page 5 
Can the university, its facult)', stu­dents or administrators be indifferent to such problems as racial equalitj-, demography, the world rule of law, the deteriorating relationship between science and die otlier humanities, the moral foundations of democracy, tlie true nature of communism, the under­standing of non-Western cultures, the values and goals of our society, and a whole host of other human problems that beset mankind caught in its pres­ent dilemmas of survival or utter de­struction, life or death, civilized ad­vance or return to the Stone Age? These are real problems — of intel­lectual content, of urgent consequence, of frightening proportions. Where are they going to be studied in all of their dimensions, and where are truly ulti-
Notre Dame Image 
mate solutions to be elaborated, if not in that one institution that is com­mitted to the mind at work, using all the disciplines and intellectual skills a\'ailable? 
The truest boast of the Catholic uni­versity is that it is committed to ade­quacy of knowledge, which in effect means that philosophy and theology are cherished as special ways of know­ing, of ultimate importance. If, then, philosophy and theolog)' do not in fact give special life and vigor to the Cath­olic universit)' of today, we will not be faithful either to the ideal that New­man so well enunciated, or to the very special challenges of our times. They are times which provide an unparal­leled opportunity' for the Catholic uni­versity really to come of age. 
Continued from page 2 
readily available for companionship and counsel, it is inevitable that they feel their image of Notre Dame has been shattered. 
The truth of the matter is that none of these changes imply any basic change in the nature or the spirit of Notre Dame. It does mean that what was once accomplished by natural asso­ciation must now involve some deliber­ate planning and organized effort. It means that what once could be "all" must often now be only "some" but to­day's "some" can be more than yester­day's "all." For e.\-ample, if I knew a third of my fellow students personally, it meant some 500 acquaintances, valu­able and cherished as friends, and themselves unique educators in the ways of their various backgrounds. To­day's student, though he may know only 10% of his fellow students, actual­ly knows more Notre Dame men. 
II. Athletics have played a tremen­dous part in the histor)' of Notre Dame. In an institution for men, separated from the outside world by physical and disciplinary environment, endowed by a way of life with health and vigor, a major athletic program was the in­evitable intelligent outlet which pro­vided a physical factor that blended effectively with the intellectual and 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
spiritual life that might otherwise have suffered substantial softening. 
This program grew naturally to in­tercollegiate proportions, and because of its inherent strength, and the factors that added the role of underdog for many years, and the champions of a highly diversified following for many years thereafter, Notre Dame's image to many of us was somehow clothed in atliletic uniforms and its voice echoed in victor)' and cheers. 
Today, when the urgencies and the changes of our times begin to show an effect in our athletic programs that has altered our pattern of success, we feel that our image of Notre Dame has been lost, even though this same change is occurring wherever a similar circum­stance has confronted a similar tra­dition. 
The truth is that dierc is no essen­tial reason for the absence of success in the proper programs of athletics that continue to provide a balance of phy­sical development to complement the continuing intellectual and spiritual de­velopment of Notre Dame men. There are accidental changes that have entered the picture that must be ad­justed and adapted. There are de­partures from some of the old tradi­tions that have been unconsciously per­mitted. Recognition and adaptation^ can absorb the accidental changes and restore tlie traditions so that reasonable success against increasingly competitive . opponents will return. The athletic image of Notre Dame has been altered, but by no means lost. 
III. Alumni sons have been refused admission to Notre Dame. And young men of fine character have been turned away. For those of us whose image o£« Notre Dame was the open door of op­portunity where a young man of good character or family background, even if he lacked financial resources, could always be admitted, it seems that this image has been buried. 

In an era when the demand for col­lege education is bringing thousands of applicants to the doors of ever}' prestige university, the constantly open door is_ no longer a physical possibility. To " assure the continuing image of com­petence, and to advance it toward ex­cellence, Notre Dame has had no alter­native but to close the door at a level that still has inched its way upward. But the door is not purposely closed to exclude sons of alumni, or young men of good character, or boys whose finan­cial resources are limited. 
The door is actually closed to pre­serve the strength of teaching and ad-^) ministration and purpose that will pro­vide for diose admitted the education they anticipate. While rising costs make the total subsidization of a stu­dent a most unlikely possibility on any general scale in the face of the budget, the fact is that costs to all students still remain at approximately two-thirds of the per capita cost of education to the University. And where relatively a fe\%^) boys were additionally helped in years gone by, the University today employs more than 750 students; scholarship opportunities inside and outside the University are being increased an­nually; and University and National Defense Loan funds make the acquisi­tion of an education more available to the determined young man today than it ever was in the past. 
The enrollment represents a distri­bution based on broad geographical^^ tradition, all 50 States and a growing number of foreign countries. It repre­sents a balance of public and private preparator)' schools. It contains a cross-section of racial backgrounds. It con­tains a cross-section of economic and family backgrounds. While the com­petitive demands of admission havej) raised the level of accomplishment for 
^th e entering freshmen, nothing has been lost and much gained in the con­tinuing educational patterns that have stemmed over the years from the rich democracy of the campus population. Certainly nothing essential has been lost. Much that is new and valuable has been gained. Again, some elements of transition are lagging behind the facts of change. But we can be opti­mistic about conquering time, so long 
• as we do not lose essendals. 
IV. "The President of the Univer­sity is away from the campus a great part of the time. The rectors and coun­selors in the residence halls don't have time to talk to the students and get acquainted with them. Notre Dame has lost its heart." 
To diose of us who remember the administration and some of the facult)' ^ sitting on the front porch of the Main 
• Building after meals, or the hall rec­tors sitting on their hall porches ex­changing banter with their tenants, it seems that the image of the small per­sonal school has been shelved in favor of the production line and the effi­ciency expert, the social worker contact and the IBM identity. 
Growing recognition of what Notre Dame has stood for over the years, and growing recognition of the priests and 
^ scholars who people the campus — achieved without any essential relation to size— have made many demands on the President not made on his pred­ecessors. A particular personal magne­tism and a universal interest and in­fluence have, of course, added to this particular departure from the campus-contained administrations of the past. It might be added that there is no essential cause of alarm here if we re­call the travels of Father Sorin, the national prestige of the eloquent Father John Cavanaugh tlie elder, and tlie world trips of Father Zahm. 
Probably more to the point — since administration is more thorough and more delegated to better-trained men 
— is the questioning of the lack of time that the rectors and prefects have for the students. 
."Vs a matter of fact, without dis­paragement to the giants of the roster of rectors and prefects of the past, the reduction of time devoted to students stems from a smaller number of avail­able priests and the double duty as teachers and scholars that the present rector and prefect must perform. 
And an even sadder truth is tiiat the modem student no longer has the same amount of time for the rector or pre­fect even if the latter were available. Student activities, student freedom, and student sophistication have combined to challenge the budgeted time of the student, particularly of those who pur­sue the increasingly significant sugges­tion that serious study is a primary purpose of college attendance. 
Size is not penalizing the purposes or the people of today's Notre Dame. It provides a much larger frame, but for a much larger picture. 
V. Money, so often a soturce of dis­tortion, has not left the Notre Dame image untouched. The transition from years in which unremunerated services of religious were the major portion of the services involved naturally creates a different role for money in the Uni­versity operation. To keep student costs in their traditional perspective — a deficit operation for each student — to provide competent lay faculty now in a ratio of six to one over religious, and to provide adequate physical facili­ties in an era of accelerated obsoles­cence— these are fiscal challenges of a new and major scope. But they are not new in essence. The deficit for stu­dent education always existed. New buildings were always in demand. And from its earliest days there were some lay faculty. The concern about the image of the simple uncomplicated and austere campus turning to lu-xury and money-raising stems from lack of knowl­edge of the truth. And the truth is that the very small endowment of Notre Dame (despite its growth from one million to almost thirty million in recent years) makes the increasing bud­get (which has grown from five million to nineteen million also in very recent years) a matter of annual concern, in which the increasing receipt of gifts and grants from alumni, friends, cor­porations and foundations must play a growing role. It is this increasing and generous response, with increasing news of such support, and the more obvious numbers of friends who enjoy the few small favors a grateful University can extend, that has caused some miscon­ception of where the University's in­terest lies. AVhatever the exigencies of fund-raising, in a growing competition for support of higher education, the essential image of Notre Dame remains unchanged, including purpose and nature. It is the necessity for increased support to preserve the primary pur­pose, the vital nature, and an adequate personnel to administer these ends, that has introduced a stronger money 
climate on the campus. The expanded total image of Notre Dame could not survive unless this new climate support­ed it. 
VI. Have the long-hairs and the 

RHODE ISLAND — Rev. Louis Thornton, CS.C. (center), director of placement at the eggheads taken over Notre Dame? I University, is introduced to Jeanne Toole of Atdeboro, Mass., by her husband Philip B. Toole, suppose a quick supposition here would '32, president of the N.D, Club of Rhode Island and Southeastern Massachusetts. 
be to identify the questioner as one of Others at Universal Notre Dame Night dinner in Providence were Jack Zilly, '46 (left), those whose image of Notre Dame is 
9 end coach at Brown University; Andrew J. McMahon, '33, of East Providence, past president of the Club, and his wife, Helen McMahon. (Providence Journal photo) 
Continued on page 32 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 21 
distance u'as no greater than the width of the pond i 
in the Boston Common. It Is funny how some of our ' 
Alumni operate — maybe we'll find the reason some 
day. Believe me, folks. It was a wonderful party 
and wc are sorr>' all of you didn't make it. 
Your Club President and Board Members have 

Clubs 
tentatively outlined a schedule of Interesting events 

Atlanta (Ga.) 
Archbishop PAUL J. HALLIXAN* of the Atlanta 

Arclidioccsc and REV. JOHN E. WALSH, Director 
of the Notre Dame Foundation, addressed the May 
6 meeting of the Atlanta Notre Dame Club at the 
Castlc\-icw Town and Countiy Club atop the Fulton 
National Bank Building. 
Arclibishop Halh'nan discussed the Ecclesiastical 

Province of Atlanta, whicli was established in Feb­
ruar>". Father Walsh discussed programs for the 
expansion of the University, 
Aurora 
Tlie Notre Dame Clubs of Aurora, Illinois, and 

the Fox River Valley celebrated Universal Notre 
Dame Night with a dinner and awards program at 
the Sky Club of the Lcland Hotel in Aurora on 
April 30. Approximately seventy alumni were in 
attendance, together with members of their fam­
ilies and friends of the University. 
Guest speakers for tlic program were Rev. Ter­

rence Stanton. O.S.B.. Chaplain of the local cliap­
ter, the HON. RAYMOND P. DRY.MALSKI, 
newly-elected Judge of the Superior Court of 
Cook County and a graduate of Notre Dame. 
HUGH DEVORE, an assistant football coach under 
JOE KUHARICH, and .NHKE LIND, captain-
elect of the 1962-63 tiMthaU team. 
Ricliard Wcirich of Aurora, a senior student 

at Marmion Militarv' Academy, was awarded the 
annual Aurora-Notre Dame Club Scholarship to the 
University. The scholarship was presented by WIL­
LIAM CHAWGO, '31, of the Aurora Beacon News. 
VINCENT BUSCH, '31. received the ^fan-of-the-

Year award in recognition of his outstanding scr\­
icc in the community and to the local organization. 
Mr. Busch is a partner in the Chicago printing firm 
of Busch & Sclimitt, Inc. His award was presented 
by Attorney CLARENCE J. RUDDY, '27, vice-
president o£ the local club. 
Special honor was also given to Mrs. J. O. Gos­

sclin, the mother of three outstanding Notre Dame 
graduates In the community, WARD GOSSELIN, 
'27, WILLIAM GOSSELIN, '32, and JOHN S. 
GOSSELIN '39. 
The greetings of REV. THEODORE M. HES­

BURGH, C.S.C., President of the University-, were 
conveyed to the gathering by EDWARD FANNING, 
'39, president of tlic local club. .Also present were 
Attorney RICHARD D. SCHILLER, '56 and '59. 
Secrctarv-, and Dr. THO.MAS STARSHAK, '52, 
Treasurer. 
—RICHARD D. SCHILLER, Sec> 

Baltimore 
The sprawling city on Chesapeake Bay was busy preparing for the biggest springtime event since the great fire — Universal Notre Dame Night — 1962. Chairman TOM SHINE provided one of the most enjoyable commemorations of the annual event in the city's histor>'. 
Backed by the tremendous effort of all Notre Dame Clubbers throughout Baltimore. BILL KEARV and his hard-working committee com­bined their talents in staging one of the all-tlmc great dances in Notre Dame Club of Baltimore historj', Feb. 17. More than 260 couples danced, drank, watclied some terrific entertainment and, most important, pushed the Club's scliolarshlp fund over the $7,000 mark by adding some 650 of the green things to the kitty. Dance Chairman Kcar>* did sucli an outstanding job that his services were volunteered for next year's dance, and the Club is going to tr>' and push the scholarship fund up to 510,000 with that afTair! 
Berkshire County 
The Club was verv* pleased with the turnout for our third Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner, on April 26, 1962. Approximately 100 attended and were treated to a fine dinner at the Yellow Aster Res­taurant and talk by basketball coach, JOHNNY JORDAN. JACK DeMOSS ably performed as toast­master. 
Tlie Father Hesburgh award ^vas awarded to Mark Bdanger, of LaDcsboro, Mass. Dr. JOE WILK and his committee, selected Mark on the basis of his 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
outstanding performance scholaslically and aihlcli­
cally at Piltsfield High School. 
The Club's Officers for the next two years were 
installed at the Dinner. FRANK LINERAN of 
Dalton takes over as President, FRANK KELLY of 
Lee as Vice President. R.AY PAINLEY and AL 
BZDULA of PittsField as Secretary and Treasurer, 
respectively. 

Committee appointments were made for the com­
ing year and are headed up by the following: 
Summer Outing—RAY PAINLEY. PIttsfield; Com­
munion Breakfast—BOB FRULLA, Lee; UND 
Night '63—ED RE.AGAN, PIttsfield; 1963 Father. 
Hesburgh Award—DR. JOSEPH WILK, .Cheshire; 
1963 .\.D.-Syracusc Game—DR. BERNIE AUGE & 
DAVE KLINE, PIttsfield; N.D. Foundation—JIM 
O'BRIEN, Retiring President. 
—R. P. PAINLEY, Sec>­
Boston 

^\^LLIA.M E. DACEV, JR., '49, Local .\.D. 
Foundation Chairman and past president of the 
Notre Dame Club of Boston, was named *'Man of 
the Year" at the Universal Notre Dame Night 
Dinncr-Dancc observance at the Statler Hilton on 
April 28, 1962. The announcement of the award to 
Dace>- by CHARLES P.ATTERSON, '44, a former 
award winner, %vas warmly greeted by the 150 royal 
rooters of our Club who were present to enjoy one 
of the finest parties sponsored by our local Club. 
Father LOU THOR-VTON, '29. from the Univer­
sity. AD.\M WALSH, '25. National Alumni Board 
member, and EDWARD McKEEVER, Coach at the 
University In 1944 and currently General Manager 
of the Boston Patriots, all gave interesting talks of 
the past and present greatness of our wonderful 
University. Tlie Club officers arc indebted to the 20 
Club members who contributed an extra ofTering 
and by doing so we were able to entertain our 
guests and other friends at a delightful pre and 
post Dinner Cocktail party. Tlic Club is especially 
indebted to JOHN McM.ANMON, '27, who donated 
the head tabic floral piece and also gave an orchid 
each to the wives of Past President POWERS, *45, 
and *'Man of the Year"' Dace%-, '49, and to the 
young lady guest of the Campus Club president, 
AL CORRISI, '63. It is too bad so many of the 
brethren elected to stay away from the afTair, be­
cause THOMAS L. REID, '25, and his Committee 
really put on a first-class party. 
Tlie first piece of mail from the University after the party was a note from Father Lou Tliomton, again expressing his appreciation to our group for the line lime he had at our party, the other two guests also sent similar thank-you cards. All three of our guests made great personal sacrifices to be present, yet some of our local stay-at-homes wouldn't even come to the Statler on the Swan Boat If tlic 
COLUMBUS — At the Columbus OuVs April 28 Universal Notre Dame Night ceremony (from left) Robert J. Kosydar, '53, was installed as president; Judge John DuETcy was the principal speaker; and Richard Kasbcrg, '48, retired as 1961-62 president of the Cluh. 
for the 1962-63 season beginning with the Freshman 
Party early in September. In the past, this party 
has been limited to the incoming freshmen, their 
parents, the officers of the Campus Club and the 
Board of Directors of our own Club. After the 
Freshman Party, wc hope to have a real football 
get-together In late September. ANGELO DABI­
ERO, '62. and NICK BUONICONTI, '62, both 
regulars on last year's football eleven at the Uni­
versity and signed by the Boston Patriots, will be . 
invited as our guests as will be other stand-out ath-' 
letcs from this area. We hope wc can get some local 
Suds maker to sponsor this one. Don't leave! We'll 
have a Victory Dance in November and the Univer­
sal Communion Breakfast on December 10, 1962. 
Keep all these events in mind when budgeting your 
social programs. If wc can interest enough people 
wc arc considering a Cavalcade of buses from Bos­
ton with stopovers In New York City before and 
after the Naiy game in Philadelphia on November 
3, 1962. As soon as details arc worked out wc should 
have a round trip all inclusive expense trip in first-
class scenic equipment that will give any other type 
of travel Number Two spot on the Hit Parade a 
right to the gate you enter at Municipal Stadium. 
Keep this one In mind. Wc are also toying with the i 
possibility of a trip to the Campus for the Pittsburgh ' 
game, November 10, 1962 — a long week end. We 
need your assistance on all of the projects and others 
wc hope to get ofT the ground. 
A salute to ED O'CONNOR, '39, who was award­ed the Pulitzer Prize for his novel, "The Edge of Sadness," the best in 1961. Your President attended the Club Presidents' Conference in New York City on May 17, 18 and 19. The gathering was held in conjunction with the National .-\lumni Board quar­terly meeting and some oO Club presidents from the East were guests of the University at a ver\' Inter­esting scries of meetings. After listening to some of the talented Club presidents discuss their operations for fund raising, parties, scliolarshlp drives and other civic enterprises. It is amazing the Boston Club has done as well as it has over the years. Some of the Club presidents arc real operators but with { one purpose to ser\*c their fellow alumni and Uni­versity in first-class fashion at all times. When you hear about six Alumni sponsoring the Campus Band and Glee Clubs in one year and making money for all concerned, you sometimes wonder if wc arc tising the right formula here in Boston. If you arc anxious to enroll your sons (ages 7 to 15) in the finest summer Camp In the country* at Sebago Lake, Maine, under the super\'IsIon of Holy Cross Fathers and Brothers, contact Rev. J. W. Hanna. C.S.C., 835 Clinton Avenue, Bridgeport, Connecticut, for complete details.-Wc have ax-ailable some ver>­beautiful enrollment cards for your living or de­ceased relatives or friends, and wc will be glad to send them to our membership for the asking. Tliese i enrollment cards arc for perpetual membership In the Pious Association and under the sponsorship of the Holy Cross Fathers at Notre Dame. 
—TI.M TOOMEY 

Buffalo 
JOHN M. CONSIDINE, '49, was elected Presi­dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo for 1962-63 at our March meeting. 
Other officers arc: Vice-President. ROBERT C. WEBER; Financial Secretan-, JOSEPH M. BUCK­HEIT; Treasurer, JAMES F. DONOGHUE, and re­elected Secrctarv-, JAMES F. CASEY. Elected Di­rectors for thrce-vear terms were: Messrs. CON­SIDINE, WEBER, BUCKHEIT and JOHN J. McMAHON. 
Our annual retreat was again held at St. Colum-^ ban's Retreat House, Derby-On-Tltc-Lakc, N.Y.. W over the Passion Sunday week end. All who attended were vcr>- pleased with Father Waldron, our retreat master this year. MAURICE F. QUINN was again chairman. 

WILLIAM B. LAWXESS, JR., '-W, associate Nc%v York Stale Supreme Court Justice, and President of the Notre Dame Law Association, was named Buffalo Club "Man Of Tlic Year" for 1961. A Buffalo Club Board of Directors member. Bill b local chairman of the special gifts division for the $18,000,000 challenge program. M 
REV. CHARLES E. SHEEDY, C.S.C., Dean of ^' the School of Arts and Letters, was guest speaker at 
1 A Universal Notre Dame Night, April 25, in the i W Hotel Lafayette. More than one hundred alumni, their wives and Mends turned out to pay homage 
I to Our Lady's School. JOHN MAZUR» '52, Buffalo Bills' Backfield Coach, and LOU SABIN, Buffalo Bills' head coach, were honored guests. PAUL D. BALLING, Chair­man, was assisted by RICHARD WAGNER. DON­ALD JACOB! did a masterful job as master of cere­monies. President JACK CONSIDINE and his board have planned a full calendar of activity. The May meet­ing, an "Old Timers" night, will be held in Ham­burg. New York. A family picnic and a "Night at the Races" are anticipated during June. The date and location for the annual golf out­^ ing will be announced. ' P —JAMES F. a\SEY, Secy 
Caluifiet Region 
On Universal Notre Dame Night the annual 
N.D. Man of the Year Award was presented lo AUSTIN BOYLE, past officer and present director of the Notre Dame Club of the Calumet Region. The Club's annual dinner honoring Universal Notre Dame Night by all of the Notre Dame Alumni Clubs throughout the United States was held on Monday, April 23, at a local Whiting Restaurant. This singular award is presented annually to a per­son wlio by virtue of his efforts on behalf of Notre Dame distinguishes himself in the fields of 
integrity, character, community ser\'icc and loyally 

• to the University, its principles and ideals, and is considered amongst the highest honors bestowed upon any individual who by virtue of the foregoing honors the University. LAWRENCE F. GAL­LAGHER, Highland, was Chairman of the event. REV. JOHN REEDY, C.S.C., editor of Ave Maria magazine, was a representative of the University and principal speaker for the evening. 
The Calumet Club Scholarship .Award was pre­sented to George Scnko, son of Mr. and Mrs. George Senko of 7130 Catherine Street, Crown Point, a student of Merrivillc High School, at a dinner meeting of the Club. The Scholarship was the first of such in a Scholarship Program em­barked upon by the Calumet Club to a student who by virtue of his academic and activity liigh school record exemplifies the characteristics and 

^ virtues of a typical Notre Dame student. 
' 9 Notre Dame stars, grads and alhtctlc oflicials got together for the annual sports stag sponsored by the Notre Dame club of the Calumet Region and held at St. Michael's church hall in Hammond. Co-Chairmen were TONY KUHARICH and D.WE OGREN. Guests included N.D. .\thletic Director ED (MOOSE) KRAUSE, backfield star .VNGELO DABIERO, Backfield Coach BRAD LYNN, Ham­mond Sportscaster JACK NAIMO and the Irish kicking specialist, JOE PERKOWSKL 
Canton 

The University of Notre Dame, Canton. Ohio. i Knute Rocknc and Athletic Director EDWARD ' (MOOSE) KRAUSE were spotlighted nationallv 
April 27. 
On behalf of the University, Moose presented to Richard McCann, director of the National Profes­sional Football Hall of Fame, a photograph of the late immortal coach which will be enshrined in the niemorial building. 
It was the first public presentation of a memento to the shrine and was witnessed by a crowd of 125 at the Congress Lake Club north of Canton. 
The presentation was the highlight of the Uni­versal Notre Dame Night obscr\'ancc of the ND Alumni Club of Canton. 
Canton has been selected as the site for the football Iiall of fame which will be similar in nature to the baseball shrine at Cooperslown, N,Y. 
Mr. NIcCann, who formerly was general manager of the Washington Redskins football team, recently was named its director. Construction of the modern­istic structure in the heart of Canton's beautiful park svstem is scheduled to be completed in the fall of 1963. 
Moose was the main speaker for the dinner. He was his usual entertaining self with a handful of amusing anecdotes about his own experiences (in­cluding a few aimed at former classmates from Canton). 
ROBERT C. (PETE) STREB, who played under ""Tlie Rock," also was a participant in the presen­tation. Pete is chairman of the memoirs committee for the ne%v haU. 
The program was pretty much football centered xvhich, oddly enough, is a rarity for the Canton club. 

CANTON — At top (I.-r.) Don Miller, 
Peter Streb, Dick McCann, director of the 
National Professional Football Hall of 
Fanic, and Edward A. (Ned) Mahoney Jr., president of the Canton, Ohio, Club, look over a picture of Knute Rockne presented to the Hall of Fanie by Moose Krausc, shown below with past, present and future Irish from Ohio. Norm Nicola, center on the freshman squad, talks to Ken Ivan, All-Ohio end from Massillon, who will be enrolling at N.D. this fall. Listening in from behind are Tom Seaman, '53, former guard who graduated in 1953, and Moose. Tom and Norm both arc from Canton. 
At the same dinner it was announced that Ken Ivan, a 6'-l" alNstate end from Massillon will be enrolling at ND this fall. 
Ken and his parents attended the dinner, and Ken received some early indoctrination from Moose, NORM NICOLA, the top center on the freshman squad last season who Is from Canton, and TOM SEA^L•\N, who played a lot of guard in the early '50s. 
EDWARD A. (NED) .MAHONEY. JR., our president, was master of ceremonies. BOB RICH­ARD, chairman. ED MACHUGA and CHUCK KOEHLER and members of the board 5er\ed as the committee for the dinner. 
We also were grateful for the brief appearance at the dinner of DON MILLER, one of the Four Horsemen, who dropped in with his son. 
Plans are being made now for a golf stag. —JIM WEBER, Secy 
Central Florida 

Universal Notre Dame Night was held Tuesday Night, .April 24. in Orlando at the Cherry Plaza Hotel. Over 30 members and their wives from Central Florida attended. Our featured speaker was Dr. WILLLAM BURKE, Dean of Freshmen at the University, who gave us a talk on the new program for freshmen at the University- Rev. Vincent Smith, Editor of the Florida Catholic, talked about the ^'alue and standards of education at Catholic Col­leges, and praised local Notre Datne Alumni for their individual efforts ia parish activities; Mr. Ed. McDonald, Director o( Ftocurement at Martin Co., Orlando, also was a guest speaker. JIM MAHON­EY was Toastmasler. 
—W. H. RiCKE, Secy 
Chicago 
Those members who attended the St. Patrick's Party, Communion Breakfast and Universal Notre Dame Night will realize, I think, that 1962 seems to be the year of citra special events. So get your clubs ready for the big golf outing at Elmhurst Country Club on Monday, Aug. 6. Our new starting system eliminates long waits at the first tee, and we promise another calorie-laden dinner and fast-moving program. 
From cromments received after UND Night. It seems that this year's steak dinner and all-ND program scored a big hit. There was an air of ex­citement in the grand ballroom of the Palmer House that night because BILL MAHONEV, presi­dent of the National Alumm Board and our main speaker, received his appointment as ambassador to Ghana from President Kennedy that morning. "Mr. .Ambassador'' gave a sparkling talk that will long be remembered. All of us in the Windy City certainly wish one of Notre Dame's most famous sons the very best In his new post-
THOMAS H. BEACOM. '20. member of the University's board of lay trustees and prominent Chicagoan, received the club's "Man of the Year" award at the dinner. Mr. Beacom. nationally fa­mous banker and long devoted to his alma mater, received a standing ovation from the gathering. 
DR. JOHN W. TAYLOR, executive director for educational television station WTTW (Channel 11). accepted the club's "Decency in Entertainment" award on behalf of his "executii.'e team." Tlic award, which is now in its third year, already is becoming one of the most coveted honors among radio and television people in the Chicago area. 
Alumni Secretary JIM ARMSTRONG, president of the anti-Metrccal club, gave us an up-to-the­minute rundown on the Notre Dame of 1962. F.ATHER JOHN WALSH, head of the Founda­tion, thanked Chicago and its alumni for a fiac performance in the "Challenge" program. 
GEORGE CONNOR, 'A%, former ND AlU American and Chicago Bears captain, was a smooth quarterback for the evening's program. CLIFF NOONAN, '24, a close personal friend of Bill Mahoney, introduced the Ambassador. Father John Van Wolvlear, assistant principal of Notre Dame High School, gave the invocation. 
Retiring president JOE PAGLL\RI, '33, turned the gavel over to JACK BARRY, '43, partner in the law firm of Rothschild, Hart, Stevens and Barry. EDWARD GARVEY, '08. will be honorary president of the club for 1962-63. ART CONILAD, "35, president of the Heritage Foundation and di­rector of Traffic Education and Safety for the City of Chicago, Is first vice president; PAUL FULL­MER, '55, assistant to the president of the Law­rence H. Selz public relations firm, second vice president; BERT METZGER, '31, associate director of the Bowman Dairy Co., secretary; and PAT SHANNON, '48, attorney and tax consultant, treas­urer. 
New governors of the club include: JIM ALLAN, '28, second vice-president of Lumbermen's Mutual Casualty Co.: JOE ARCHIBALD, JR., '50, adver­tising manager of Jefferson Electric Co.; JOE DELLA MARLA, '27, general superintendent of .Xash Brothers Construction Co.; JERRY GATTO, "56. owner of Executive Consulting Services, Inc.; .AN'THONY GIROLAMI, '43, Clerk of the Probate Court of Cook County; ED MORAN, 'M, president of Moran Supply Co.; and LEN SKOGLUND, '38, president of Scully-Jones International. 
In addition to the above, other members of the board of governors are: TERRY BRENNAN, '49; DICK BURKE, '55: CHUCK FALKENBERG, JR., '52; JOHN FOGARTV, *49; FRED GORE, '43; JIM MALOOLY, '55; JOE MERRION, '20; ED .MIESZKOWSKI, '46; FRANK MURNANE, '49; CLIFF NOONAN, '24; FRANK 0*DOWD, '42; BILL REYNOLDS, '54; KEN SCHUSTER, '49; JOE Z^VERS, '38, and immediate past president JOE PAGLURI. 
—PAUL FULL.MER, '55, Secy 
Cincinnati 
The University of Notre Dame .Alumni Associa­tion of Greater Cincinnati recognizes as Man of the Year ALBERT E. HEEKIN, JR., who has, by his unusual participation as a friend of Notre Dame, greatly helped the University In Its efforts to meet the present-day challenges of higher cthication.. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 23 

Cleveland 
The Rockne Memorial Mass and Family Breakfast was held Sunday. April 1, 1962, at Immaculate Con­ception Church, the pastorate of our Chaplain Father Bernard Blatt. Chairman of this year*s event was LEO J. BURBY, past president of the Cleve­land Club, who is to be congratulatcti on the suc­cessful turnout of Alumni and Guests. DAX DUFF\', Toastmaster, introduced the guest speaker. Father Tom Brennan, who gave us a colorful and in­formative talk on a few of the "greats" of Notre Dame. 
Highlight of the dav was the Annual Man of The Year .Award Prcsentaiion by JAMES P. COLLER­AN, recipient of last year's Award, to FRANCIS M. PA^'NE, Attorney at Law. 
Colorado Springs 
Last November 21 we had our annual business meeting at the EI Paso Club, Colorado Springs, at which time we renewed the first year of our being, took up dues from those present and made plan.s for the coming year. We appointed Captain ^LAL­HAM M. WAKIN, "52, assistant professor of phi­losophy at the United States .Air Force Academy, to head a committee for Universal Communion Sunday, December 10, 1961. He and his fellow Notre Dame professors at the Acaderav, Captain OTTO HILBERT, '54. and ^faior KELLY COOK, '47, made all the arrangements for the Mass which was celebrated by our Club Chaplain, Very Rev. MONSIGNOR ROBERT F. HOFFM.\N, pastor, St. Marv-'s Parish, Colorado Springs, at the Academy Community Center Catholic Chapel. In attendance along with about twenty of the Club members and their families were Brigadier General Robert F. McDermoll. USAF, dean of the faculty at the .Academy, Mrs. McDcrmott and their daughters. A brunch followed the lO o'clock Mass at the .Academy Officers' Club at which Club \1ce­
Prcsident William G. Hearn. '27, presided in the absence of yours truly, who ^*'as in Roclicster, Min­nesota, with Mrs. Donelan, who lias been very ill for almost two years now. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held at the EI Paso Club, Colorado Springs on the evening of May 3, 1962. It was not a large turnout but an enthusiastic one. We had about twenty in all count­ing the wives. Our speaker for the evening was Chaplain (Colonel) Stephen J. O'Connor, USAF. Chief of the Chaplain Corps at the .Air Force Academy. Father O'Connor's topic was '"The Re­ligious Life of the Air Force .Academy Cadet." It was most interesting and inspiring. It is good to know that the Cadets at the .Air Force Academy arc receiving strict training in religion, regardless of Catholic, Prolcstanl, Jewish, or no faith repre­sented within the Cadet Wing. During the course of the evening the Club presented Captain M.AL WAKIN its Man of the Year .Award for his out­
standing contributions at the .Academy to many areas of Catholic .Action. Mai headed up a com­mittee at the .Academy to produce a "Living Rosary** during last October. .All of the Catholic families assigned to the school participated. Tlie children held lighted candles representing the beads of the five decades of the Rosary-. It %vas a beauti­ful thing to behold. ITien. as rt^ountcd above, Mai got together our Communion Sunday in December. During the period bet^vecn .April 17 and April 24, 1%2, Mai worked ver>' hard on a Seminar at the Academy in which there were three sections. Catho­lic, Protestant and Jewish. Outstanding men from each Faith were brought to the .Academy to ad­<iress the particular sections. 
Our own FATHER CHARLES E. SHEEDY, C.S.C., Dean of the College of .Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, was selected to address the Cadet Wing Philosophy students giving the Catholic side of the general topic, '"The Ethics of the Various Religions.** Mai rounded up about sixteen of us for luncheon with Father Shccdy at the .Academy Officers* Club on Tuesday the 25th of .April. .Again, General ^(cDemiott was our guest. 
—WNf. J. DONELAN, JR., Prcs. 

Columbus 
The Notre Dame Club of Columbus celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on April 28 with a dinner at Presutti's \nila. Eighty-seven alumni. wives, and friends of the University attended. .ART ULRICH, '48, chairman of the event, obtained the services of smiling JACK GORDON, '42, as M.C. and Judge John Duffey, presiding Judge of our court of appeals, as principal speaker. Judge Duf­fey spoke on the encyclical, "Mater ct Magistra.*' 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
Retiring president RICHARD KASBERG, '48, 
whose \-igorous leadership rejuvenated the club this 
year, gave a characteristically modest fareivell talk 
in which he thanked many of the members for their 
help. Dick paid special tribute lo the retiring offi­
cers, JOHN FLENTZ, '57, vice president; PAT 
TONTI, '51, secretarx-; and MIKE CANTWELL, 
'58. treasurer. Dick also noted the fine work of AL 
RTTCHER, '51, on the Christmas dance; AL EI­
CHENLAUB on the football special to the North­
^^•este^n game; ^MARTY A^XIDEMAN, who u-as 
publicltv man, chairman of the Communion break­
fast, and jack-of-all-trades; DR. TO.M HUGHES, 
*38, who was cliairman of the general appeal phase 
of our Foundation drive; JOHN IGOE, '28, our 
college night representative and chairman of the 
Foundation special gifts committee; ED CANT­
WELL, '24, who handled prospective student inter­
views; BOB KOSYDAR, '53, and J.ACK DILEN­
SCHNEIDER, '53, of the Joyce scholarship commit­
tee; KEN MEYERS, MO, our Blatz distributor and 
perennial refreshment committee head; GUIDO 
.ALEX,ANDER, *+I, who catered the fall picnic, 
and ART ULRICH, chairman for Universal Notre 
Dame Night. 

Incoming president BOB KOSYDAR introduced 
his new staff of officers: Vice-president MIKE 
SaANLON, *54, Secrctai^- J.ACK DILENSCHNEI­
DER, and Treasurer DON WEIL.AND, '52, and an­
nounced that in addition to the normal club events, 
some new projects would be undertaken in the 
coming year including the publication of a club 
director\* and the presentation of a high school 
football trophy. 
"Early bird" prizes were awarded to those who made reser\-ations before chairman ART ULRICH got ulcers, a date which .Art prcriously announced would be a week before the event. Winners of ladies* hats from "Susie's Smart Shoppc'* operated by HERM BIITNER, *24, were Bonnie Murphy, u'ifc of JOHN MURPHY', '28, BOB KOLOPUS, '58, and Irish JOHN MURPHY himself. John de­clined a second lady's hat for the family and JOHN DEBrrETTO, *41, won it on the redraw. Prizes donated by JIM CARROLL, importer of bever­ages, were won by student JOHN GLOCKNER, Marv Flentz, Mar\' Kolopus, Mrs. Glockncr, wife of ALEXANDER GLOCKNER, '27, and GARY H.ALL. Boxes of ladies* hose donated by HERM BITTNER were won bv guest Bob Strieker, MARTY WEIDEMAN, DR. TO.M HUGHES, guest Jess Howard, KEN MEYERS, JOHN FLENTZ, J.ACK GORDON, AL EICHENL.AUB, Molly Ulricli, and JOHN RYAN. JACK CANNON, '30, owner of 
"Cannon's Flower Cart,** donated candles won by P.AT TONTI, PHIL CAREY, *40, and PHIL REGAN. Jack also donated table mats won by Mrs. Carol Kasberg, Tom Hughes, Jr., DON ^VEILAND and student GEORGE HUGHES. Mrs. AI Eichen­laub won a bottle cover and Judge DufTey won an­other dinner at Presutti's X'llla. 
Other alumni in attendance were TOM CANT­WELL, '53, PAT CAN-TWELL, '52, T. J. FRER­
COLORADO SPRINGS — Capt. Malham 
M. Wakin (right), philosophy professor at the U.S, Air Force Academy, is presented a scroll as N.D. Man of the Year by Chaplain (Col.) Stephen J. O'Connor of the Academy at U.N.D. Night of the Colorado Springs Club, of which Bill Donelan (center) is president. 
ICKS, AL FRERICKS, DR. JOE HUGHES, *31, CHARLIE WEILBACHER, '40, DAVE HAGANS, '55, LEO KLETZLY, *30, DICK DILLON, '52, GEORGE BLUBAUGH, '53, TOM ROCHE, *39, ED REGAN, CHARLES McMILLAN and JIM MONROE. 
—JOHN DILENSCHNEIDER, '53. Sccv 
Connecticut Valley 
The Notre Dame Club of the Connecticut Valley celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night at the Car­riage Drive in Hamden with an attendance of more than 200 alumni. THO.MAS B. CURRY, a Hart­ford attorney, received the annual Man of the Year award. 

Dallas ^ 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated April 26 at the Holiday Inn with REV. GLE.N.V BOAR­MAN, CS.C, as guest from the University. .Ap­proximately 120 alumni and friends were hi attendance. 
WALTER L. FLEMING, past president of the Alumni Association, received the annual Man of the Year award from chairman HAL TEHAN. Other speakers included Bishop Gorman, of the Dallas Diocese, and MARTY O'CONNOR, the out­going president, who introduced the new club of­ficers: DICK LaJOIE, President; DON HARRIS. Vice-President; MARK TOLLE, Secretary-; and FRED EICHORN, Treasurer. 
Dayton 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed with a dinner in the Van Clevc Hotel, May 7. DR. JOHN J. KANE, head of the S(K:ioIogy Depart­ment, spoke on "Better Understanding between Christians and Jews." 
DR. LOU HALEY, retiring president and toast­master at the dinner, received the club's award as Dayton's Notre Dame Man of the Year. 
ED SHEA, who is retiring as vice-president of the national Alumni Association and member of the board of directors, received a special plaque in recognition of his distinguished ser\'icc to the alum­ni and the University. Ed announced at llic dinner that the Dayton Challenge Drive, of which he is chairman, had been successful in meeting its quota. 
New officers of the Davton club arc: President, WALT GRADY; Prcsident-Elect, PAT FOLEY; ^ Secretary, JOHN DEFANT; and Treasurer, DREW % AMAN. New members of the Board of Directors are GEORGE PFLAUM, JR., ROCKNE .MORRISSEY, and LOU HALEY. 
—JOHN DEF.AN'T, Secy 

Dearborn 
A general meeting was held at the home of RICHARD KING on .April 13, 1962, with the fol­lowing newly elected officers presiding: RICHARD KING, President; EUGENE WAGNER, Vice-President; and GEORGE BALL, Scc>-Treas. 
The annual St. Patrick's Day Party was held at Warren Valley Golf Club, \%ith GEORGE TOBIN « as chainnaa of the event. ( | 
A sdicdule of club activities for l%2-63 was passed out to members. Plans were also discussed for the annual Communion breakfast to be held on May 20, at St. Bernadettc's Church. 
—GEORGE C. BALL, Sccy-Treas. 

Decatur 
Out of the night on a late, late train appeared a star of alma mater. Claiming a lesser magnitude than reflected In a well-edited speech, our star made his delivery* and forthwith invited questions. Wow! His response to questions both hot and var­ied stretched our imaginations. Had we been on campus we couldn't have envisioned more clearly an institution 120 vcars voung. Tlius did JOHN LAUGHLIN, managing editor of the ALUMNUS, keynote Universal Notre Dame Night in Decatur. Illinois, May 2, 1962, MILTON BEAUDINE, '54, ­chairman. f| 
Our secretary-, RICH McDONALD, '56, was un­able to be present so our president. GEORGE H. HUBB.ARD, JR., '54, asked that we review above in preview our next meeting. Actually, it was a rally around the flag of the 19th hole of the country club of Decatur, June 19. Mulligan time ^v'as 1 p.m. and for those who refused to march shoulder to shoulder into the rough, 5:30 p.m., at the club­
house, there was golf, cocktails, dinner and. tra­ditionally, no speaker. We didn't need one. Only in Brooklyn are there more vocal (if not actual) au-m thorities on Notre Dame football. We're constantly " seeking new material from Central Illinois and the United Slates and Texas (Larry Kclly^ please note). 
• So if you were of the spirit, this was the mundane of infidels and you joined the mundane "what though the odds . . ." 
—STEVE GRALIHER 

Denver 
The Denver Club had a wonderful Universal Xotrc Dame Xight dinner-dance at the PInehurst Country- Club. A social hour and prime rib dinner was followed by an Interesting program at which FATHER PHILIP MOORE, Academic Assistant to the President, was the main speaker. The public responsibility theme of this year's tribute, especially as regards helping one's scliool and helping those who also desire a higher education, was emphasized 
• by the attendance of representatives from Regis, Colorado and Denver Universities. D.U. was also the recipient of a Ford Foundation Grant, and Francis S. Van Dcrbur. noted Denver businessman and General Alumni Fund Chairman for D.U., spoke on the theme of helping one's scliool. 
Xotrc Dame's need for additional student aid money was highlighted by the presentation ol two Denver Club scholarships and by the recognition of the award of an $8,000 G.M. Scholarship through Xotrc Dame to Tom O'Hayre who was In the 
99.5 percentile in the College Board Examina­tions. The Denver Club scholarship winners were John (Jay) Gelgcr of Walsenburg, Colorado, and George (Tony) LcMalrc of Denver. The box-s and their parents were honored at this 
9 time. GERRY SMITH, '27, reported that the Den­ver Club hod achieved 120 per cent of Its Alumni Fund goal but some alumni still had to send in their pledge cards. The Governor and .Archbishop at the last minute were unable to attend. A report was also made of the loan of money by the Club to a worthy junior at school who had exhausted other resources. 
Tlic new club officers and directors were Intro­duced as a finale. They are: ROBERT ZEIS, '55, President; JIM COUGHLIN, '57, Vice-President; MIKE HALLIGAN, '32, Treasurer; and JOHN SCHEIBELHUT, '52, Secretarx-. Directors arc: CARL EIBERGER, '52 and '54, GENE BLISH, '34, TOM CURRIGAN, '41. and JIM SHEEHAN, '50. 
The Chairman of this event was outgoing Presi­dent, CARL EIBERGER, assisted by BOB ZEIS and the rcser\-atIons committee: Mrs. Joyce Baier, 
^ Mrs. Barbara Moran whose husband John, '52, is running for the State House of Representatives, Lois Zeis, and Marguretlc and NIadeleine Eibcrger. 
The last Discussion Club of the year listened to an interesting talk by Father Francis Malcchek. noted authority on the subject of "Natural Law." 
Election of officers was held at the March busi­ness meeting with the results indicated above. 
In Februar>* a large turnout enjoyed a tour of the Coors Brcwer>- which actually consisted of dancing, entertainment, mo\ics, prizes and a buffet in addi­tion to the tour. Tlic Club during the last two years has had a major function evcr>* six weeks in addition to Discussion Club meetings about evcr^* two months and the monthly luncheons. 
Tlic Scliolarship Committee had a ver>' difficult 

• job this year because of the high number and ex­cellence of the applicants. It was so difficult that two awards were given for the first time in the Club's hislor>-. The school helped by giving an award to a third applicant. The Scholarship Com­mittee also did the screening for the admissions office. These hard-xvorklng people were ART GREGORY, *35, and CARL EIBERGER, Co-Chalrmen; TO.M KLENE, '49, JOHN MOR.\N, CHUCK BAIER, '51, TOM CURRIGAN and MSGR. GEORGE EVANS. '44. 
—a\RL F. EIBERGER, Prcs. 

Des Moines 
On April 28, 1962, the Xoire Dame Club of Des Moines celebrated Universal Xotrc Dame Night with a banquet at Hotel Fort Des Moines. Tlie 
^ Xotrc Dame track team with coach ALEX \ML­
^ SOX, in Des Moines tor tlic Drake Rcla>-s. were honored guests. Father FR.ANCIS O. NE.\LY, as­sociate professor of thcoIog>- at the University, was principal speaker. • Tlie annual award of Man of the Year was given by the club to JOSEPH E. \S*HALEN, prominent layman and civic leader in Des Moines. Mr. Whalen is manager of Hotel Fort Des Moines. He graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1929 with a 
B.S. Degree. He has 5cr\'ed as a Director of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Alumni Association, 
Among alumni attending, with their wives, were 9 ROBERT E. DREY, '53, JOSEPH BISIGNANO, '59, THOMAS J. NOLAN, '54, RAROLD P. 
ERIE — Universal Notre Dame Night was a family affair in Erie, Pa., with his wife and two alimmi sons present to congratulate the GIub*s choice as 1962 N.D. Man of the Year: (from left] Richard 
T. McCormicb, '55; John J. McCormick, Sr., holding his award; wife Frances and son John J. McCormick, Jr., '53. 
KLEIN, PAUL EIDE, '52, JOSEPH E. WHALEN, '29, JOE JOYCE, '54, JAMES DINNEN, JOSEPH CASEY, JAMES BOESEN, '54, JOHN CORCO­R.AN, JAMES BISIGNANO, '61. ANTHONY CRITELLI, 52. and DONALD BOSS. 
Guest alumnus was DANIEL (JAKE) NOO.N.-VN, 
Sioux City. Iowa. Master of ceremonies was AN­
THONY CRITELLI and student present was John 
Corcoran, Jr. 

Other alumni contributing to the evening were 
JA.MES C. SHAW, FREDERICK G. XEU, BE.N 
CONDON, ROBERT BEH and CARLETON BEH, 
JR. 

On May 2. 1962, JLM BISIGNANO and JOE 
JOYCE showed the movie. "Notre Dame." to the 
Dou'ling High School juniors. 
—JOSEPH B. JOYCE, Secy 
Detroit 

On Tuesday night. May 8, at the Latin Quarter, the Detroit Club celebrated the 39lh Annual Univer­sal Xotre Dame Night. Edward L. Cushman, vice-president of .\merican Motors and director of the company's public relations department, was a guest speaker, as well as FATHER JOHN E. n^VLSH, director of the Univcrsitv of Xotrc Dame Founda­tion, and EDWARD "MOOSE" KR.\USE as toast­master. Mr. Cushman brought his broad and diversified background in management and labor relations to bear on the social problems discussed in the Enc>clical "Mater ct Magislra." CM . VER­BIEST was chairman. 
The Annual Golf Outing was held on Tuesday, June 26, at the beautiful Western Golf and Country Club, scene of recent Motor City and Western Championship tournaments. A wonderful day of golf and swimming was climaxed by dinner at the clubhouse. FATHER WALSH, ".MOOSE" KRAUSE, JOE KUHARICH and FATHER JERO.ME WIL­SON, vice-president of the University for business affairs, were among those Invited. 
Erie 

Universal Xotrc Dame Xight was held in Eric on Monday, April 30. REV. RICHARD O. POOR.M.-\N, C.S.C., assistant to Father Hcsburgh, was our cam­pus guest and speaker. Msgr. Wilfred J. Nash, President of Gannon College, also joined with us in the celebration and gave a short talk. JOHN J. McCORMICK was honored as the "Man of the Year" for 1962. John is the father of JOHN J. JR., '53, RICH.\RD T., '55, and PATRICK McCOR­MICK, presently a Sophomore at Notre Dame. An­other son, Tim, also attended Notre Dame. 
.-Vmong those In attendance for the affair which was enjoyed by all were Mr- and Mrs. ROBERT BARBER, '40, Mr. and Mrs. HOWARD ESSICK, *41, BOB WTNSCHEL, '51, Mr. and Mrs. RICH McCORMICK, '55, Mr. and Mrs. JIM DAVYER, '37, Mr. and .Mrs. BOB LUKES, '49, BOB WESCH­LER, '30, Dr. and Mrs. ROBERT ROCHE, '31, Mr. and Mrs. CHUCK DEGER, '55, Mr. and Mrs. 
LARRY STADLER, '28, Mr. and Mrs. BlU. GRANT, '45, HERB KERN, '54, Mr. and &!r3. LEO BRUGGER, '34, Mr. and Mrs. TOM GAL­LAGHER, '55, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN LOCHTE­FELO, '55, TOM BATES, '60, and Barbara De­Sant'is, ED KERN, '56, FRANK RILEY and Mary Therese McCormlck, daughter of the Man of the Year, Mr. and Mrs. HOOT SCULLY, Mr. and Mrs. JACK BERTGES, and Mr. and Mrs. HANK ANGELLOTTL TONY ZAMBROSKI, '52, pres­ident of the club, and JOE BARBER, '36, chair­man of the affair, arc to be commended for the splendid affair. .-Vlso on the committee were LARRV STADLER, '28, ED KERN, '56. and BOB LUKES,. '49. 
JOHN JORDx\N, Notre Dame basketball coach, was In Erie, May 8, to speak at the Gannon Col­lege Sports banquet. The affair was taken in by many Notre Dame alumni. Coach Jordan was well received by all in Erie and the banquet goers all seemed to enjoy immensely Jordan's talk. TOM B.\TES, '60, publicity director at Gannon College, was Instrumental in getting Jordan to come to Erie and Tom Is quite elated that Gannon will be play­ing Notre Dame In South Bend February 13, 19^. RICH McCORMICK, '55, and MIKE McCOR. ^!ICK, '61, are already talking about going to Notre Dame for the game. 
HOWARD ESSICK, '41, was pleased to meet HOOT SCULLY (father of 5 sets of twins) at the Universal N^otre Dame Night shindig. Howard's Notre Dome roommate, MARTY SHEA, '41, marriecf Hoot's sister and Hoot and Essick had never met before although both have been long-time residents of Erie. JOE BLAKE, '61, is working as a field engi­neer for the Federal government at the present time. He is planning to go to graduate school In the fall. MIKE McCORMICK, '61. is also planning graduate work in the fall — at the University of Buffalo. DR. ROCK MARTEL, '59, who has been in Erie only a short time, is getting well ac­quainted around the club and around the uty. TOM GALLAGHER, '55, recently moved into his new home. Our club lost two officers recentlv when RAY LEGLER, '57, and BILL DWYER, '53,'moved out of town. Ray moved to Pittsburgh and Bill to Chicago. TONY ZAMBROSKI. '52, moved up frona Vice-President to take Ray's place, and JOHN J­McCOR^^CK, JR., '53, is filling out the rest of Bill's term. 
LARRY STADLER, '28, is looking fit as a fiddle-He spends a lot of time training his champion dogs and Is always. It seems, at another dog show. ROM SHUBERT, '61, is enjoying a respite from his med­ical studies this summer. JIM EHRMAN, '61, pres­ently taking graduate work in Electrical Engineering at Notre Dame, Is working at the Erie Resistor again this summer. LEO J. BRUGGER, JR., '61,. presented Teresa Minadco with an engagement ring March 23. Many of the local alumnt are looking forward to the annual picnic at the summer home of LEO J. BRUGGER, SR.. '34. It looks like both Lcos will be busy shortly with the finishing up of mortuary school for Leo, Jr.. and his forthcoming marriage. TOM BURICK, '58, became the proud father of number 5 last .April. It was a boy again, and Tom and Jane now have four boys and one girl. DICK DALEY, '53, dropped into Eric from Chicago with his wife, son and daughter for a short visit recently. NORB "GOOTCH" LE^VIN­SKI, '53, captain of the '52-'53 basketball club, his wife, Irene, and two daughters spent a week with Micke>- and JOHN J. McCORNHCK, JR., '53. "Gooich" is now living in St. Louis. 

JOHN LOCHTEFELD, '55, had quite a spread in the Eric Daily Times last spring. He had painted the murals in the new dormitory at Mercy­hurst College where he is teaching in the art department. TOM BARBER, '24, Is managing to get a little time off from his legal practice to lour the links this summer. RICH McCOIUHCK, '55, Is another who gets the golf gear out and plays 18 every chance he gets. LEW SHIOLENO. '49, is doing a good job on the Prep School Inter­view Committee here In Erie. Prospective students arc really enthused about Notre Dame after talk­ing to Lc\v. LEO CARNEY, '30, is really proud ol his son, Timmy, who was given a trophy as the outstanding player on his junior high basketball team. PHIL H.AGGERTY, '53, is among those Ii^py to hear the news of the ordination last May 19 of MIKE McKlNSTRA also of the class of 1953. Mike was ordained in Freeport, Illinois. ROBERT BARBER, '40, enjoyed a get-together with Coach Jordan while he was in town. JACK DAUT. '5 ^ » with General Telephone in Erie. DICK CONSI­DINE, '58, is enjoying a rest from his Penn State-studies. BILL GRANT, '45, now selling insur­ance. Is with Penn Mutual. FATHER JCXi HIPP. '49, is back In town this summer after bung; 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 25 

away studying. HERB KERN, *34. and family re­cently moved into tlieir jusl-finisltcd new homr. GEORGE MEAD, '27, is looking fonvard optimisti­. cally to Notre Dame's football season. JOSEPH STADLER, '53, and wife. Nano*, recently wel­comed their fourth child. JACK YOUNG. '5K has been having quite a little back trouble lately. BILL O'BRIEN, '34, and family are spending the sum­mer at their home on Edinboro Lake again this year. CHUCK DEGER, 55, claims ED KERN, '56, will take the prize for high score at the annual golf outing this year but Ed denies it say­ing he's safe as long as Chuck is in the tournament. —JOHN J. McCORMICK, JR., Scc>-
Rint 
Tlie annual meeting of the Flint Club was held 
at Cromer's Restaurant, May 9. 1962. Our Presi­
dent, LARRY S.AXE, reported on tlu> club activities 
during the year. The following officers were elected 
for the ensuing year: Picsident, W.ALTER NAGEL; 
Vice-President, Dr. WM. .MACKSOOD; Vice-
President, T. GERALD RANDALL; Sreretar^•-
Trcasurcr, JAMES RHADIGAN; Directors. VIC­
TOR GEORGE, Dr. DAN SHEERAN, LARRY 
SAXE and TED MANSOUR. 
Committee Chairmen of activities were appointed 
and plans were made for a joint excursion with the 
Saginaw Valley Club to the X.D.-Michigan State 
same next fall. 
—JERRY RANDALL, Retiring Sec>--Treas. 

Fort Lauderdale 
Tiie St. Patrick's Day Party of the Notre Dame 
Club of Fort Lauderdale was a huge success. 
Charlie Spivak and his orchestra provided the music 
for 220 Notre Dame friends and guests. The party 
started with a vcr\- lovely dinner prepared by the 
Governor's Club Hotel and. of course, green derbies, 
clay pipes, shillelaghs, and the like were ai^iilable 
in quantities sufficient for cver\- guest. Dancing and 
entertainment followed dinner, and an Irish Jig 
contest was held and won by llie lovely Irish wife 
of our Associate Member M- G. S.VNCHEZ. 
Tlic regular business meeting held on .April 12. 1962, at the Governor's Club Hotel at wliicli 33 members were present and enjoyed a vrr>- lovely Roast Long Island Duck Dinner complete with wine and all the trimmings. Our local member. PAT DADDEO, introduced his guest. NUKE GRAINEY, '60, who was in the Fort Lauderdale area enjoy­ing some of our sunshine. Mike gave us a little in­sight into university life at present and recalled some of his memories as captain of the 1959-60 basketball team. WILLARD MOSS, our Foundation chairman, reported that the Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale had pledged to date 118 per cent of its quota for the foundation and all members arc duly pleased with the results of our local drive. 
The Annual Florida Notre Dame Convention was held in Palm Beach on April 27. 28. and 29, and with the attendance of approximately 20 of our local members, the affair was a great success. FATHER JOYCE of the University *vas the hon­ored guest at the Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner held at the convention and all those at­tending will long have plea-sant memories of this fine week end. 
As is our biannual custom, a director*- of all mem­bers of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale will be printed in the near future. The director^' will list names, addresses, business associations, etc, of all regular, Iionorar>', and associate members. Any Notre Dame friend throughout the nation de­siring a copy of our directory is most welcome to it. li they would simply send their name and ad­dress requesting the directory to our club, we will be most happy to send one to them by return mail. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club was in the Fort Lauderdale area over the Easter \-acation and we were vcr>" honored to hear them sing at the 9:00 
a.m. Mass on Easter Sunday at St. Anthony's Church. TOM WALKER^ '42. w^s local chairman for Glee Club arrangements. Our congratulations go to Tom for a job well done. 
Wc arc eagerly looking forward to our giant 4th of July party to be held ibis year at the Palm-Aire Country Club in Pompano Beach. This will be a full day event consisting of golf, swimming, super­vised activities for the children, and firexvorks at nigfit. Wc will have a barbecued steer for dinner and with the very attractive prices made available to us by GEORGE McFADDEN, President of Palm-Aire, tve are quite certain a hugh turnout will be guaranteed. 
Tentative plans for the summer call for an Au­gust meetjog honoring FRANK BUDKA, our local member whom all Notre Dame followers will be watching next Fall and at this time we hope to 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
kick-off our annual football raffle for the benefit of the foundation. This year's raffle prize will be two tickets, round trip plane fare, and hotel reser­vations for both the Michigan State game at Notre Dame on October 20 and the Northwestern game at Evanston on October 27. Wc certainly anticipate it to be a great success. We always consider it a great opportunity to be able to offer such a fine prize to enable us all to sec the team play cadi and cver\- year. 
Tliat's it for this time, but as always the wel­come mat is out for all Notre Dame friends whenever in the Fort Lauderdale area. 
—DO.N DORINI, '53, Secy 
Fort Wayne 
JEROME J. O'DOWD, '41, LL.B. '42. city at­torney of Fort Wayne, Ind., was selected as Notre 
• Dame Man of the Year at the Fort Wayne Club's observance of Universal Notre Dame Night May 10 at the Orchard Ridge Country" Club. 
Commissioned a Na\y officer at Notre Dame, Jerry saw action as a landing craft commander in the W. W. II Pacific campaign, winning the Naw Cross, Silver Star and various unit citations for his exploits on Iwo Jima. Tinian and Guam. Former Democratic city chairman, he was a former state officer of the Young Democrats and helped to found Fort Wa\Tie"s Naval training center. 
President ROBERT LUTHER officiated at the dinner, and the guest speaker was BOB CAHILL, athletic ticket manager at Notre Dame and presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valle>-. 
Greater Miami 
Tlie Miami Club, besides participating in the Notre Dame State Convention in Palm Beach, held its own Universal Notre Dame Night dinner-dance at the Miami Shores Countrv- Club on Mav 1. 
DR. WILLIA.M M. BURKE, new dean of fresh­men at the Universitv, was a guest speaker from the campus. DR. WILLIAM J. McSHANE, Club president, of Coral Gables, presided at the affair, and JAMES A. SMITH, former president, was honored as Notre Dame Man of the Year. He received his airard from CH.-\RLES E. MAHER, another former president, now cljaimian of the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami. 
Houston 
On April 25, 1962, the Houston .Mumni Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night at the River Oaks Counlrj- Club. Father GLENN BOAR­M.-\N journeyed from the campus to dine with the club members and the wives and to address the group. TOM BRENNAN was awarded the plaque as the Houston Notre Dame Man-of-the-Ycar. 
Tlie Club took the occasion of the Universal Notre Dame Night gathering to announce the new list of officers only recently elected and the balloting completed a few days before the party. The roster of new officers includes AL DeCRANE as President, TED POWERS, Vice-President, with RALPH SAUER and DAVID MILLER continuing in their roles as Secretar>- and Treasurer respectively. The Houston Club is honoied by a most active au.xiliar>­club which works vcr>- closely with the men's or­
ganization, and the new officers of that club were also announced at the UND Night Party. 
The DeCrane household will be extra busy since Joan DeCrane will lead the ladies' auxiliary- for the coming year, assisted by Rita Mctyko. Vice-President. Yvonne Powers, Treasurer, Helen Pat­terson, Corresponding Secretar>% and Connie Lin-beck, Recording Secrctarj'. 
Outgoing President GEORGE McHALE, show­ered with congratulations for an excellent per­formance during the past year, will continue in active service as a member of the joint group ad­visorj' council. He will ser\'e along with Man-of­the-Ycar, Tom Brcnnan, and outgoing auxiliary-President, Patti Ruth Linbeck. 
—RALPH SAUER. Secv 

Indianapolis 
Universal Notre Dame night was observed Wed­nesday, April 25 with a dinner held at the Indianapolis Athletic Club ballroom. A record crowd of 350 persons heard head football coach JOE KUHARICH as featured speaker. KARL F. JOHNSON, prominent industrialist and current Indiana governor of the Notre Dame Foundation, was named the club's N.D. Man of the Year. A surprise award of a lifetime club membership was made to THOMAS FITZGERALD, SR., long time Notre Dame booster, whose own ambition of attending Notre Dame was never realized but who saw a fulfillment of this ambition in the education of his five sons at the University. President ^ WILLIAM S. SAH.M closed out one of the club's W most successful years in histor>' by announcing the sum of $3,500,00 had been raised for the Scholar­ship Fund by club activities during the past twelve months. 
Tlie club elected as new President, DR. PAUL 
F. MULLER, '37, whose practice In Obstetrics includes the deliver>' of Notre Dame sons and daughters at a near-record clip. Other officers elected include TOM O'BRIEN, '53. Vice-President, and CHARLES G. WAGNER, '54, Secretarv-. GEORGE F. USHER, '45. w^s recently named permanent Executive Secretary*. RICHARD K. OWENS, '42. was again rewarded for his many hours as Currcnc\' Commissioner by being re­elected unopposed to the post of Treasurer. New directors named were JOSEPH FITZGERALD, '44. WILLIAM McGOWAN, '57, immediate past Presi-^ dent SAHM, 51, and FRANCIS B. QUINN, '42. • Quinn is unquestionably the king of the club's baby derby with the recent birth of their thirteenth child, a boy, who was immediately tabbed by Ins father for a quarterback assignment in 1982-83. 
Fresh from political victories in the May 8 primary elections, JOHN I. BRADSH.\W, '53, and J.^MES C. WELCH, '50, now are preparing their campaigns for election to the offices of State Senator and County Clerk respectively. 
—CHARLES G. WAGNER, Secy 

Kansas City 
Our thirty-ninth annual Universal Notre Dame night was celebrated, Monday, April 23, at the Here­ford House in Kansas Citv, ^lissouri. 
EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE. the Athletic Director, was the principal speaker, and his in-
DAYTON — Head table for 1962 Unirenal Notre Dame Night in May at the Van Cleve Hotel included (L-r.) Edmund W. (Ked) Shea, retiring national vice-president and director; M^^. Martin T. GiUigan, pastor o( Sacred Heart Church; Dr. and Mis. Louis M. Haley, retiring president of the Dayton Qub; Dr. John J. Kane, N.D. sociology head and guest speaker; and Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Aman, Jr., retiring treasurer. 
spirational Xotrc Dame theme included an optimis-I tic prognostication regarding the football prospect 
for the coming year. JIM SCHAAF, who is ver>­
active in the Kansas City Athletic organization, was 
a speaker as also was JIM COONEY of the Foun­
dation. RUSS FARRELL gave a financial report 
covering Kansas City's progress in the "Challenge 
Program" and ED AYLWARD presented Jim 
Cooncy, the University representative, with a cash­
ier's check for $16,300.00 to be applied toward our 
'•Challenge" goal. \Vc in Kansas City arc proud, 
justifiably so we feel, of our progress to date in the 
program but will not rest on our laurels. 
The "Man of the Year" award was presented to 
JAMES P. METZLER for his contributions in lime 
and effort to conummily projects. JIM HIGGINS, 
who presided at the event, introduced the honored 
member. 
The only damper to the eveniug's festivities was 
an announcement in the form of a letter by JOHN 
MASSM.\N of his retirement from the office of 
Club President. John indicated that because of the 
pressing requirenictits of his business, particularly 
the travel aspect, he could not devote the time to 
club activities which he believes would be nccessar>* 
ill order for him to continue in office. John has ef­
fectively, conscientiously and vigorously ser\-ed the 
club so we regret the need for his resignation. Cer­
tainly, we're sure we can count oil him for any 
assistance his time will allow and we intend to call 
upon him. First Vice-President JIM HIGGINS suc­
ceeds to the Pre5idcnc>' and H.\ROLD SOLOMON 
will move to First Vice-President. Both Jim and 
Harold have been very active in promoting Club 
affairs and we have cvcr>' reason to expect an out­
standing job from both in their new assignments. 
—CARL B. ERFFMEYER, '51, Secy 
Los Angeles 
For the second consecutive year, the Notre Dame 
Club of Los Angeles joined with the clubs of the 
Greater Long Beach area, the San Fernando Valley, 
and the San Gabriel Valley, in sponsoring the Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night Dinner at the Hollj-^vood-
Roosevclt Hotel on April 30. 19G2. The dinner 
opened with an invocation by our club chaplain, 
RT. REV. MSGR. R. J. O'FLAHERTY. '24. Genial 
AVALTER O'KEEFE, '21. acted as Master of Cere­
monies and made a big hit with the diners by re­
counting many of his humorous anecdotes and 
experiences collected throughout a lifetime In the 
entertainment industry*. 
The lovely, young actress, Delores Hart, sister of 
MARTIN GORDON, '63, was one of the principal 
speakers. Her chosen theme, "The Need for Real­
ity," was excellently presented as she discussed the 
problems, illustrated by personal experiences, faced 
by a young woman entering the make-believe world 
of motion pictures. 
The Rev. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C, Execu­
tive Vice-President of Notre Dame, ably represented 
the University at the dinner. His interesting talk 
highlighted the present accomplishments of Notre 
Dame and its plans for the future. Needless to say, 
the local alumni thoroughly enjoyed seeing Father 
Joyce again and appreciated his presence on the 
West Coast. 
In addition to the fine talks, the program also 
included the reading of a letter from Gov*. Edmund 
G. Brown of California. Unable to attend the din­ner in person because of prior commitments. Gov. Bro^\•n sent a message expressing his best wishes to the Los Angeles area alumni and congratulating the University on its achievements as one of the leading academic institutions in the United States. 
For the first time in several years, the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles presented a *'Man of the Year" award at the dinner. Selected as the re­cipient of this honor v\'as our outgoing president. MORTON R. GOODMAN, '30. Since his arrival in the Los Angeles area twelve years ago, Mort has dex'oted himself to assisting the affairs of the Uni­versity and the Foundation in Southern California as well as actively participating in all alumni func­tions. As president of the club, Mort gave freely of his energies and abilities in helping to make our members strong, active supporters of the Univer­sity. Mort has also found time to build a suc­cessful law practice in Beverly Hills in which one of his recent projects has been ser\'ing as Techni­cal Advisor for the television show **Harrigan and Sons," which starred our adopted alumnus PAT O'BRIEN. Making the award to Mort was LEO WARD, *20, former president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
Another event of the dinner was the installation of new officers for the four local alumni clubs. This chore was handled in a most judicial manner by the 
HON. A. A. SCOTT, '22. New officers for the 

DALLAS — U.N.D. Night Chairman Hal 
Tchan (left) and guest speaker Rev. 
Glenn Boamian, C.S.C., from the 
University, congratulate Walter Fleming, 
past president of the national Alumni Assn., 
honored by the University and the Dallas 
Club for his service to all Notre Dame men 
and to his community respectively. 
Los Angeles Club, elected to a two-year term, are BOB GERVAIS, '55, President; ED FOX, '55, Vice-President; GENE CALHOUN, '33, Secretary-Treasurer; and JIM NEWM/VN, '26, Assistant Sec­retary*. Elected to three-year terms as directors are Dr. LEO TURGEON, '42, and JOE SCOTT, '52 
Before the dinner was officially closed with the saying of grace by REV. A. J. HEINZER. C.S.C., '41, of the Family Theatre of the Air, the partici­pants had enjoyed, in addition to the program, a delicious prime rib dinner. The food and service were tops, factors no doubt insured by the pres­ence of JOHN W. KIRSCH, '36, manager of the Hollywood-Roosevelt* Among the large turnout en­joving the evening were the following members of the Los Angeles Club: DICK BOWES, '38, Assist­ant Director of the N.D. Foundation; HON JO­SEPH GORMAN, '24; MIKE TARR, '51; GENE KENNEDY, '22; JACK 5KEEHAN, '32; JOHN McQUADE; BOB NEWGARD, '48; "JUDGE'* JOHN aARBERRY, '35; NORM HARTZER, '29; H.\ROLD HAYES, '23; JIM O'NEIL, '52; BOB HAINE, '52; TOM FOOTE, '52; Dr. DAVE CAR­TY, '52; Dr. BARING FARMER, '53; DAVID BRANDON, '56; DAVE D.WIN, '58; and DICK .MILLER, '61. 
On Sunday, the day before our Uni%'ersal Notre Dame Night Dinner, the dinner-goers were feted at a cocktail party in honor of Father Joyce at the home of GENE CALHOUN, '33. and his gracious wife, Veronica. J\S is usual with all our social functions hosted by the Calhouns, the party was a huge success; attributable, of course, to the proper ingredients, good food, good drinks, and good people. 
Tlie recent death of TOM LIEB, '24, was very sad news for local alumni. Tom was a great Rockne tackle while at Notre Dame and also distinguished himself as an Olympic track athlete. For many years, he was a highly successful football coach at Loyola University in Los Angeles before moving on to the head coaching position at the University of Florida. In recent years, Tom had resided in Los Angeles and taught high school mathematics. An active supporter of the Los Angeles Alumni Club, Tom's presence will certainly be missed at our local activities. He will, however, be remembered in our thoughts and prayers. 
—ED FOX, '55, Vice-Prcs. 
Maine 

The Notre Dame Club of Maine is now in the process of planning a summer outing. Our main ac­tivity this winter has been to stimulate giving to the Notre Dame Foundation, and now that the winter is over we are hopeful of a couple of summer ac­tivities. 
Again we invite anyone visiting Nfaine to come ofT the Maine Turnpike at Exit 13 to visit us at Geiger Bros. 
—RAY GEIGER, Secy 
MCNtSfWHI 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by the club at the Mansfield-Leland Hotel on April 30, 1962. JOHN D. IGOE. '28, made a very in­spiring talk on the role of the Catholic layman. 
The new ofBcers for the coming year are DICK WALTER, '41, President; SHERRY COLEMAN, '46, Vice-President; JACK 0*DONNELL, '51, Treas­urer; and MARSHALL PRUNTY, '50, Secretary. A meeting is planned in the near future to co­ordinate activities for the coming year. 
—M. E. PRUNTY. JR., Secy 
McHeniy County 
Our Notre Dame Club of McHenry County ob-scr\'ed its second Universal Notre Dame Night on Wednesday, May 9, at Martinetti's Restaurant in Crystal Lake and there were fifty-two members and guests present. Mr. ALFRED STEFAN of your Board of Lay Trustees was our special guest and main speaker. Mr. Stepan stressed at length the many nonathlctic achievements of Notre Dame and did his usual outstanding job. Our club felt highly honored to have a man of his stature and I can assure you he was very well received by everyone. I think too that At enjoyed himself as he is a for­mer resident of Crystal I.ake and met many old friends. 
In the business portion of the meeting PAUL Mc-CONNELL of Woodstock and DICK FREUND of McHenry were elected Directors. Officers for the coming year are: PAUL McCONNELL, President; DON FREUND of Crystal Lake, Vice-President; and TOM PARSLEY of Crystal Lake, Secretary-Treasurer. 
—GEORGE COSTELLO, Retiring Pres. 
Midland-Odessa 
The Notre Dame Club of Midland-Odessa, Texas, celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner-dance at the Midland Country Club. Out­going President BYRNE O'NEII.L instaUed JOHN O'HERN of Odessa, as the new President and JOHN BUCKLEY of Midland,, as the new Vice-President of the Club. Father Kcnoetly of Midland spoke on the value of a Catholic education in the world today. 
Among those present were DR. VINCENT SHER­ROD of Odessa, TOM OVRIEN of Lubbock, JIM JENNINGS of Roswell, New Mexico, and olhen from surrounding areas. 
—BYRNE O'NEILL, Retiring Pres. 
Mohawk Valley 
The ND Alumni Club of the Mohawk Valley obscrv'cd Universal ND Night with a dinner at the Beeclies in Rome. Principal speaker was WIL­LIAM MURPHY, Assistant ND FoundaU'on Direc­tor of the Eastern area of the country including New York, New Jersey and New England. We had two Man of the Year Awards. One was presented to VINCENT FLETCHER, '32, who was Chair­man of the local ND $18 million Challenge Drive recently completed. Vince worked long and hard to spearhead an over-the-quota result. The other was presented to RICHARD TROSSET. '53, Club Vice-President who has been Chairman for several years of the area's Student Screening Comnuttee. He spends countless hours each year on this activ­ity. Chairman for the event was JOHN WHOEP­PLE. '53, local high school coach. REV. JOHN MADDEN, '54, gave the Invocation. Club President KENNETH MURPHY, '54, presented the awards. Club Treasurer GERALD BACHMAN, '52 and Secretary DANIEL CALLAN, '50, also were at the speakers' table. 
—L. DANIEL CALLAN. Secy 
Monroe 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Monroe cli­mxYed its annual Universal Notre Dame Night flin­iier meeting for members and wives with the an­nouncement of Dr. JOHN J. LABOE, as the Notre Dame Man of the Year. 
The program preceding the presentation was a sound movie narrated by the Rev. T. M. HES­BURGH, explaining the Notre Dame Foundation program. 
Special guests included Brother Ambrose Nowak, C.S.C, principal of Catholic Central High Sdiool; Ronald LaBcau, CC Senior, and his parents. 
R(»ERT H. MAURER, secretary of the club,, was chairman of arrangements for the affair and in­troduced officers of the cltd> as well as the: program. 
The plaque awarded to Dr. Laboe was givm by­
.Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 27. 

the local club through the University in rrcognition of his efforts for his church, community and the Notre Dame program. Presentation was made by HUGH LAUGHNA, president. 
Muskegon 
We had a verx' fine gathering of about forty for 
the obscr\-ance of Universal Notre Dame Night in 
Muskegon %vith STAN T\XER, JR., in charge. 
We enjoyed ha\-ing ^tr. and Mr$. JOSEPH 
O'BRIEN as guests from the University and his 
talk was very inspiring and served to keep us in 
touch with the progreiis and ;pirit at the Uni­
versity. 
Thomas Robinson, a Senior from Muskegon 
Catholic Central High School, was awarded a 
5400.00 scholarship to help him in his freshman 
year. 
Our faithful and conscientious treasurer of many 
years, ^HLLL^M T.ARDrVNI, was named "Man 
of the Year." 
—LEO L. LINCK, Sccj-

New Haven 
Universal Notre Dame Night this year for the Nctt- Haven Club was lield jointly with the Hart­ford, Bridgeport and Walcrburv- Clubs of Con­necticut. 
A crowd of ncarlv one hundred Irish was on hand 
io hear FATHER LOUIS THORNTON, C.S.C., 
our guest speaker from the Campus. .-Xt the meet­
ing. President JACK. KENIG.AN, '49, presented 
the New Haven "Man of the Year"' award to CHARLIE DUCEY, '30, for his work with the Knights of Columbus and extensive participation xa cn\*ic and youth activities. 
Club officers for the coming year also were an­
nounced. They are: President. BOB WARNER, 
'53; Vice-President. PHIL FAUST, "52; Treasurer, 
BERNIE PELLEGRIXO, '57; and Secretary, JOHV 
CLARK, '58, who wc hope will be released by 
Uncle Sam this .-Xucust. 
—PHIL FAUST, Treas. 

New Jersey 
The Thirty-ninth .Annual Universal Xotrc Dame 
Night v-as celebrated by the Xotrc Dame Club of 
New Jersey on April 30 at the Bow and Arrow 
Restaurant in West Orange, New Jersey, 
The evening was thoroughly enjoyed by all three hundred who were fortunate to be present. Our President, BRUCE DOLD, and BILL KIRCHNER, Master of Ceremonies, inaugurated a dinner dance for this celebrated occasion uith great success. Tlie cocktail party preceding dinner allowed many to say hello to those the>' haven't seen for years! 
Our guest of honor and only speaker of the eve­ning was the principal reason why evcr>"onc was delighted he had come. Our beloved and devoted President of Notre Dame, F.ATHER THEODORE BC. HESBURGH, spoke in his usual brilliant man­ner, of the great cliallenges for a university in these ^nodem times. He illustrated this theme by revealing Ills recent experience with a Peace Corps group in dhile. Tliis group had been trained at Notre Dame Sast summer under the personal guidance of Father Hesburgh and hb selected staff. Tlic group rcpre­simtcd many colleges and university students besides t!hose from the University of Notre Dame and St. Mar>*'s. Father Hcsburgh, during Easter week, tisiled these dedicated young men and women in C^ile. There he witnessed their diEHcult challenges. His description and observations of their accomplish­ments gax'e each of us a deep appreciation and un­derstanding of what is possible for youth to effect when properly motix'ated and educated in our mod­
em universities today. 
\Vc, the faithful in attendance at this 39th An-. nual Universal Notre Dame Night in New Jersey.' wish to thank you again. Father Hesburgh, Bill Kirchner and Bruce Dold for a nigiit long to be remembered as a tribute to Notre Dame Men and their families everx-whcre. 
—PETER F. REG.W, '54, Seo* 

New Mexico 
The Club's annual Universal Notre Dame Night CX]5er%'ance ^vas held May 1 at the .Mbuquerque Country Club. Guest speaker, JIM FRICK, E.xecu­ti\'e Director of the Foundation, gave an enthusiastic picture of the University's goals and accomplish­fnents. 
Other pleasing news concerned Father Butler, Alumnus, Club Chaplain and head of the Newman Center at the University of New Mexico, xvho re­cently was selected as National Chaplain of the Newman Apostolate in the United States. 
2fi Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
Club President, FRANK HUDSON^ is currently forming a Xomlnating Committee to arrange the succession. Next on the agenda is the annual picnic and thirst <iucnclicr and we'll see you all then. 
—BILL HARVEY, '52, Scc\­
New York 
U.N.D. night at the Park Lane Hotel was one of the most notable in years with stimulating and dynamic addresses by FATHER HESBURGH and Governor Nelson Rockefeller. A well deserved award as *'Man of the Year" *v"as given to JIM Mac-DEVITT, '35. 
A golf outing was scheduled for June 28th at 
the Chcrr\- Valley Countr>' Club, with TOM 
EARLEY, '47, as chairman. 
Tlie Long Island dinsion, under \"ice-prcsident BILL G.\RTRELL, *54, sclieduled a pool party for July 7 and a Square Dance for October. 
The Westchester division has a pool party sclieduled for July. —GEORGE P. KRUG, '35, Secy 
Northern California 
The space between the golden dome and the golden gate narrowed in San Francisco Universal Notre Dame Night for the ND Club of Northern California. Two firsts were involved: the REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., was a fii^t-timc guest on UND Night here, and the Presidio officers' club provided the scenery for the first time. (Pre­sidio: one of the nation's oldest and most beautiful military posts, with roots in Spanish da\*s; now 6th .Army headquarters.) 
Father Joyce brought about 70 alumni and some 30 wives up to dale on university progress in facul­ty, facilities, and Foundation. Tliis was the first opportunity for bay area alumni to visit with Father Joyce since he represented ND at the pregamc rally and game when the Cal series opened in *59 at Berkeley. Tlie program offered a social hour. Father Joyce's talk, and a brief presentation of a univer­sity plaque to PAUL GUSHING, SR., '31, for his national alumni board ser\*ice. FRANK (BODIE) ANDREWS added warmth to the presentation as a long-time friend. 
Music with a humorous twist ended the obscrv-ancc here. BOB KARY'S \-olunteer group surprised the audience with professional skill despite their day­time backgrounds as engineers, physicists, salesmen 
— and even musicians. 
In addition to Father Joyce, the South Bend staff was represented by RICHARD J. BOWES of the Foundation, a temporal^' coast resident in L. A, to keep western chairmen and door knockers knocking. (After some foot-dragging, we're doing better, and 
KANSAS CITY ' Campus guest Moose Krausc (center), Irish athletic director, looks over a plaque awarded to James 1 Metzlcr, '40 (left), selected as Notre Dame Man of the Year in Kansas City. Xlie presentation was made by Club President Jim Higgins, '33 (right), at the K.C Universal Notre Dame Night observance last April 23. 
Dick's suggestions, experience, and direct help are 
appreciated. His real secret aid came along with 
him: Mrs. Bowes.) 
BILL and MARTV DALY made the long nm from Sacramento to represent that club and to visit their former club associates here. 
BILL McGOWAN assumed the president's job of introductions. TOM KERNAN was chairman, backed up by JOE BOIVIN and BILL HOB.AN. BILL SHER.\1AN and ED MANSFIELD produced and distributed the baywide publicity. JOE CON­GANNON maintained his tradition of awarding a case of Concannon wine — ranked with a good state's best. Beyond ND night, bay area news in­cludes the headline that LAWRENCE T. (BUCK) SHAW still makes headlines. The retired coach, out on top with the Eagles in '60. made Santa Clara's i new Hall of Fame and had their new football field named for him. . . . Last year at this time, the paper executive (Ro\*al Container v-p) was ND Night headlincr, with an unusual club plaque, a golden memoiA* book of letters spanning his college and coaching years, and a campus personal salute from \-isiting ED KRAUSE. . . . Tliis latest Shaw trSiulc can go up next to Ins 1961 ND club plaque, whicli tells all who read a message cvcr>' ND man would like to have on his wall: "You traveled your road of honor to the Golden Gate in the light of the Golden Dome. Your code of Personal Responsi­bility marked all who traveled with you. Your fel­low alumni from Our Lady's school give you the title to whicli we all aspire: Buck Shaw, Notre Dame Man." . 
Xfore news: WILLL\M HOBAN, another trans-f planted Midwcstemcr, shifted from a McGraw Elec­tric exec spot to presidency of Incandescent Supply, one of the West's largest electrical wholcs:Ucrs (soon 18 brandies). . . . BOB TONEFF zips back each fall as fast as he removes his Washington Red­skin warpaint, and is loyal to those certain Founda-lion-Iipe products in selling for Geary Ford. . . . DAN GENTILE now here for RCA, from LA. . . . GENE DeLAY, Nebraskan gone western, with in­ternal revenue. . . . FRED .AR.MSTRONG after fine FBI background, under his own legal shingle now. . . . JOHN O'CONNOR added a new col­umn to his editorial duties at the Monitor (arch­diocesan). . . . KEVIN 0'SHE.\ is still playing good offense/defense: offense with the San Francisco Saints (.ABL) as general manager, defense with in­surance for Breen, McKee, & O'Shea. . . . BOB CONNELLY won national insurance honors with M Aetna. . . . BILL SHER.MAN is helping golf grow via the National Golf Foundation. . . . GEORGE SEALY now with Utah Construction. . . . BILL McGOWAN shifted from McMillcn Mortgage to another mortgage firm in SF. . , . WARD Mc-MULLEN of NCR still a leader with the SF Sales and Marketing Executives. . . . BOB TARVER bal­ances law with much civic work — San Mateo Junior College, Hanna Bo>-s' Home. .. . ED MASSA doesn't yearn for his Icgal-cagic days because of the progress of his industrial-commercial real estate. . . . PAUL LIMONT kept as trim as Leahy days with hard work for Crane (paper, not plumbing). . . . DON SEHL with state department of cor­rections, and staving vouthful bv ignoring the age m of an Air Force son. . . . JERO.ME FARROX and ^ Johns Manville still progressing together. . . . JIM ROWLAND sells for Simpson Lumber now. . . . Past President WILLIA.M SHINE is with Walston & Co. and securities. . . . Other faces good to see ND Night were ED O'SULLIVAN, checking on missing FRED AR.MSTRONG. . . . FRED PEAK, 
TOM MCCAFFREY, LARRY O'LEARY. .MIKE KIELY (excellent work with young athletes of the upper peninsula). . . .Plus a fine-looking crop of newcomer alumn! who should make good committee fodder for the new officers, whoever and whenever they may be. . , . 
And your note-taker, aimed and fired by DR. COONEY, wonders why we don't all realize that we should move Dartmouth out of No. I alumni fund participation ranking in the U.S. by signing up? We're trailing, says — ED MANSFIELD, 'W. 
Oklahoma City 
On April 28, Universal Notre Dame Night was held at the Plaza Tower Hotel. 0\'er I(X) members and guests attended to hear REV. JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C., of the Foundation, give a fine talk on the University's attempt to promote the name of the University. His Excellency Victor J. Reed, Bishop of the Oklalioma City Diocese, was also present and gave a short but astute talk fol­lowing Father Walsh's talk. "BUCKY" O'CON­NOR was master of ceremonies and it was certainly a fine evening. Msgr. A. A. Isenbart, head of Cath-' olic Charities in this area, was awarded the Man­OKLAHOMA GAME ACCOMMODATIONS 
" Doctors attending a medical convention in Oklahoma City this fall have been ofTcred tickets to the Notre Dame-Oklalionia football game. TIic Oklahoma City Notre Dame Club has rcscr\-cd the entire Plaza Tower Hotel for the %vcck end of the game. Wc are having a rally on Friday night in the Hotel at $4.00 per person %vilh all refreshments free. Wc are also providing bus service to and from the game on Saturday and box lunches for those desiring same. The hotel rescr\'ations must be for two nights at $12.00 per room, containing two large double beds. The Dallas club Is taking one floor (12 rooms). 
This new hotel is built in the shape of a 

I hexagon and has 86 units available. We are hoping to fill the Plaza Tower Hotel with Notre Dame people and wc arc certain a good time will be had by those in attendance. Clubs and individuals wishing to secure rc­ser\-at!ons should contact WM. J. O'CONNOR, '48, 4400 N. Lincoln Blvd., Oklahoma Citv 5, Okla. 
of-the-Ycar plaque, and Mr. Jack Siegrist of Hen­ryetta. Oklahoma, was awarded the Boy-of-the-Ycar plaque. 
Two daj-s later on Monday, April 30, the Notre Dame Concert Band gave a very fine concert at Mc-Guinness High School here in Oklahoma City. The band, under the direction of ROBERT O'BRIEN, 

( played their usual fine and varied repertoire. The auditorium was full and very appreciative. EU­GENE SCH.M1T, vice-president of the Oklahoma City Notre Dame alumni, presented the band with an Oklaiioma State flag which will hang in the bandroom at Washington Hall. 
.\fter the concert, a social hour was held for the band members sponsored by *hc alumni in this area. It was certainly an enjo>'ab' evening and the baud was well appreciated. 
Plans arc firming up for the Xotre Damc-Okla­boma game to be held at Norman in September. Reserx'ations arc coming in, and anyone wishing ihcm should contact the Plaza To\%er Hotel as soon as possible. Feeling and spirit are beginning to run high here, and we'd like to see a good representa­tion here for Notre Dame for the game. 
—JIM DASCHBACH, Scc>­

Oregon 
REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, was a guest at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner of the Oregon Club April 23 at the Benson Hotel. Father Jovce also addressed the Portland Rotarv* Club the following day. PAUL NEWMAN succeeded CH.\RLES SLATT as president of the Notre Dame Club of Oregon. 
Palm Beach 
I Tlic annual Florida State Convention of Notre Dame Clubs was held in Palm Beach at the Sea Breeze on the ocean, April 27-28-29, 1962. Spon­sored hv the Palm Beach Notre Dame Club under the able cliairmanship of JAMES DOU*NEY. Three days of rclxxatiun and mildly competitive athletics (golf, tennis, Ping-pong, shufileboard, etc.) were climaxed by the Universal Notre Dame Night Ban­quet on April 28. FATHER JOVCE, Mrs. Frank J. Lewis, Dr. William Burke, newly appointed Dean of Freshmen, and Mr. Phillip Lewis were honored guests. D.AN DOU'NEY ser\"ed as toastmastcr. 
Two important events occurred at the banquet. First, DICK WHALEN, Fort Lauderdale, was hon­ored by the Lauderdale Club as their Man of the Year. Secondly, in delivering the principal address. Father Joyce announced the gift of one million dollars to the University by the Lewis Foundation for the construction of a residence hall for student nuns. 
Attending were: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM ABOOD, Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT AKRA, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN BOWEN, Mr. and Mrs. MARTIN CLYNES, Dr. and Mrs, JAMES COONEY, Mr. and Mrs. DAN DOU'NEY, Mr. and Mrs. JIM DOWNEY, Mr. and Mrs. ROME HARTMAN, Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE HELOW, Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD LEWIS, Mr. and Mrs. \VILLIAM MEDDEN, Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD MARCUS, Mr. and Mrs. THO^L\S MAUS, Mr. and Mrs. WILLLUkf MAUS, Mr. and Mrs. WILLARD MOSS, Mr. and Mrs. FRANK McDONOUGH, Mr. and Mrs. FRANK McGINN, .Mr. and Mrs. 
MONROE —Dr. John J. Laboc, '48 (left), named Notre Dame Man of the Year at the Monroe, Mich., U.N.D. Night, accepts his award from President Hugh Laughna, '41. 
JOHN .MISS.\ELLEN, Dr. and Mrs. BERNARD 0*HAR^\, Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE RUDOLPH, Mr. and Mrs. CHET SADOWSKI, Mr. and Mrs. 
R. SADOWSKI, Dr. and .Mrs. HOWARD SERV­ICE, Mr. and Mrs. DO.NALD SMYTH, J. R. SMYTH, Dr. and Mrs. D.\N STACK, DENNY STACK, Mr. and Mr-i. TOM WALKER, Mr. and Mrs. DICK WHELEN, and Dr. and Mrs. BILL WELCH. 
—BERNARD O'HARA, Seo" 
Panama 

In March the Notre Dame Club of Panama had an election of directors; the following arc the new officers of the Club: LORENZO ROMx\GOZA, *45, president (Box 3393 Panama. Rep. of Pana­ma); JOHN PETTINGIL, '35, vice-president; FREDERICO HUMBERT, JR., '55, treasurer; AN­TONIO DOMINGUEZ, JR., '53, secretary — Pana­ma; LEW KRZIZA, '40, secrctarx-•— Canal Zone; and BISHOP MARK McGRxVTH, advisor. 
Panama participated in the reunion of N. D. graduates of Central .America held in San Jose. Costa Rica, April 23-26, Father Hesburgh and Bishop McGrath were among those present. 
—ANTONIO DOMINGUEZ, JR., Secy 
Peoria 

On June 20, 1962, the Notre Dame Club of 
Peoria had its annual election of oflicers. Elections 
were held at Pabst Brewing Company, in the Pabst 
"33" Room. Arrangements were made by Mr. 
FR.\NK H. MURPHY, '18, who is public relations 
director at Pabst. 

Elected to office for the vear of 1962 were: 
CHUCK PERRIN, president; JOHN SLEVIN, vice-
president; JI.M McCOMB, secretarv-; and GERRY 
&\SH>fAN, treasurer. 

CHUCK PERRIN, '51, and wife, Marion, are the parents of 9 children (10th on the way). He is an attorney for the Chicago Motor Club in Peoria. 
JOHN SLEVIN, '60, and wife, Mar>', have just returned to Peoria. John has entered private law practice here. They now have 3 children. 
JLM McCOMB, *54, and wife, Kay, (S.MC, '56), have recently moved to Peoria from Dcs Moines. Iowa. Jim is the new Chevrolet dealer in Peoria. Jim and Kay have 3 little ones (4tb on the way). 
GERRY aASH.M.\N, '52, and wife, Phyllis, arc residing at 930 N. Glen Oak. Gerry is claims repre­sentative for Central Illinois, working for Michigan Mutual Liability Co. 
Philadelphia 

Tlie Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia announced the fourth air trip to a Notre Dame game, this time an all-expense trip via Chicago to the Michigan State game. FR.\NK GREEN, HENRY HATHAWAY and CHARLES CONLEY a n co-
chairmen. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated oa 
Friday, May 4, at Overforook Golf Club in VUI»­
noi-a. E.E. "RIP* MILLER of Ann^mlis vf^s the 
special guest and principal speaker, and JOHN 
MacCAULEY represented the Uni\-er3ity. THOMAS 
C. McGRATH, JR., was the chairman, and President BARTON B. JOHNSON presented special awards to BILL BURNS, HENRY HATHAWAY and JACK HENRY for outstanding support of the Club over the years. WILLU.M AUSTIN MEEHAN, '48, was saluted as Notre Dame Man of the Year, and QUINT STURM was toastmastcr. 
Meetings were held in May and June, the first addressed by REV. JASltS DON-NELLY, C.S.C., the Texas missionary. 
Phoenix 
We had a ver>' successful Universal Notre Dame 
Night. ED BOYLE, director of the FBI in Ari­
zona, W3S master of ceremonies. REV. JOHN £. 
WALSH, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame 
Foundation, and FRANK LEAHY, former head 
football coach, were special guest speakers. Phoe­
nix' Man of the Year was JOE HORRIGAN, 
who organized the Notre Dame Scholarship Fund 
of Phoenix. The event was very well attended 
(nearlv 100 people). 
Back on February II FATHER HESBURGH 
gave an inspiring talk at a well attended Com­
munion breakfast (over 80 people present). 
New officers of the Notre Dame Club of Phoenix 
are DR. BILL DUN^N. president; DR. GENE 
RY.AN, vice-president; MIKE BOSCO, secretary; 
and JLM CORCORAN, trcasurcr­
—WM. J. DUNN, M.D., '47, Pres. 
Pittsburgh 
On Sunday, .April 1, the Pittsburgh Club held 
a Family Communion at the Cathedral, followed 
by breakfast at Stouffer's Restaurant across the 
street. Speaker for the occasion was REV. JOSEPH 
CHRISTIE, S.J., a guest from Great Britain. 
At the Communion Breakfast new officers were 
elected: DONALD W. BEBENEK to succeed 
PETER F. FLAHERTY as president; GEORGE 
\VILLL\M BROWN following Bebenek as vice-
president; HUGH C. BOYLE, JR., replacing Brown 
as secretary; and J.AMES PETER FRID.AY, re­
elected treasurer. Named to the Board of Governors 
were CHARLES L. CHRISTEN, J.\.MES F. 
VOGEL, GEORGE KINGSLEY, CARL APONE, 
FRANCIS SURPRENANT, and LEO O'DONTVELL, 
JR. 
The first activity of the new Club year was an informal summer dance at the South Hills Country Club on June 15. under the cha'rmanship of PETER FLAHERTY. Vacationing students were invited to add to the festi\*itics. 
Projected for .August were the traditional Father-Son party for incoming freshmen and a possible family swimming party. Guests in Pittsburgh are urged to attend the Club's weekly luncheons, every Thurday noon in the Variety Club of the Penn-Shcraton Hotel. 
Rhode Island & S.E. Mass. 
Universal Notre Dame Night u-as obscr\-ed in Providence with cocktails and dinner at the Way­land Manor on the evening of May 3. Guest from the University was REV. LOUIS THORNTON, C.S.C., Notre Dame's director of placement. 
Rochester 
The annual Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated at Ridgemont Country Club Tliursday evening, .April 26. The guest speaker for the eve­ning ^vas FATHER CRARLES SHEEOY, CS.a , Dean of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre Dame. The event was well attended. 
After Father Sheedj-'s talk. President WILLIAM DEMPSEY, introduced the officers for the coming vear. They arc: President, JOHN C. CASEY; Vice-President, LEO J. WESLEY; Secretary, THO\US J. MURRAY; and Treasurer, THOMAS 
P. FENTON. The "Man of the Year'* award of the Notre Dame Club of Rochester was made to JACK NVE DUFFEY. Jack is general manager ol Springfield Monarch Insurance Company here. This award is 
made annually to an outstanding area graduate for community and churcli-related activities. 
—THOMAS HURRAY, Secy 
tfotre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 29 

Rome 
Our high light activity this spring was the Ordi­nation and First Mass of FATHER JACK ANTON, '38, of Chicago with his parents, brothers BILL and DICK, '39. and Chicago friends in attendance. Ordained at St. John Latcran Basilica on .April 7, Father Jack offered his First Mass at Holy Cross Scminar>- with FATHER EDWARD L. HESTON, C.S.C., as Assistant Priest. TIic festal breakfitst was held at Xotrc Dame International School and the reception at thi- XD Club. (See photo, this issue.) 
Tlie club*s Hospitality Center gets gifts along with the guests: FRANK M. FOLSOM, Lactare mcdalist, has been sending handsome books to aug­ment our librarx-. JOHNNY .McLAUGHLIN, '34, of Cumberland. R.I.. arranged with U.S. Congress­man John E. Fogarty to send us a magnificent new fifty-star American Flag. 
A Memorial Mass was offered in the name of the club at St- Peter's Basilica for Cardinal Gaciano Cicognani. brother of our honorary- member AM­LETO G. CARDINAL CICOGNANI. 
Distinguished guest: SIR ARNOLD LUNN, ND faculty, *35 and his wife. Special guests, neigh­bors, and almost members are the 103 .American students at the new Rome Cenicr of Loyola Uni­versity, Chicago. 
Outstanding guest: BOB STEFANI, '64 (Brother LARRY, '65) of Cal. Bob with buddy rolling into Rome in a Volks camper, parked It ever>' night in St. Peter's Square under John XXIII's window and slumbered in it, waking each morning when­ever the Square became noisy- enough to arouse them. One morning so awakened. Bob arose, slid back the roof of the Volks — stood up in his shorts — only to sec Jackie Kennedy, our First Lady, whisk by on her visit to Papa John. No one knows If she saw Bob as Nature Boy among the splashing fountains. 
Reminding all ND men, their families and friends that it's open house all day cvcr>' day. this is the list of our current callers: JOSEPH SADOFSKI, Feb. '58, of Wughtdown. N.J.. with .Armed Forces in Chaumont, France, VINCE SHAW, '55--57, St-Louis, JOE DWYER, JR., '38, BROTHER RON­ALD DRAKOZAL, C.S.C., en route to East Pakistan, PAUL TULLY, '39, JEROME TRAUTS­CHOLD, '59. Waco, Texas, Msgr. Joseph C. Fcnton, Catholic Universitv. PAUL LYNCH, '58. MARC BRAECKEL, '60, Webster Groves, Mo., FE­LIX PATOUT, Holy Cross High. MO, New Orleans, St. Edward's U.. .Austin, Texas, ex '42. friend of GREG LUKAS, '60. Sioux Falls. S.D., FATHER STANISLAUS BELCH, p.g. In Political Science, ND, parent of MELVIN BOLDT, 'M, seminarian son of JOHN ROCAP, '30, of Indianapolis, BILL, »55, and Mrs. McFADDEN, N-Y.C. CAPT. JAMES SMITH, '49. USAF, LEL.AND CROGH.AN, '56, Armed Forces, Germany, R.AY JOYCE, '17-'I8, brother of BOB, '27, Robert Smith. Kings College. WIlkcs-Barre, brother of FATHER BURTON SMITH, C.S.C., DR. PAUL BUCKY O'CON­NOR, '31, and \%ire en route to visit P.AUL, JR., '59, and wife at Universitv of Bologna ^Iedical School, ^LAURICE, '35, and Mrs. TOMBRAGEL of Los Angeles. JOE BROUSSARD, II, '41, GREG HOLTZ, '61, Elkhart, BROTHER CYR, S.C., ex-summers, Flushing, N.Y., REV. .MR. THEOTONI­US GO.MES, '61, Dacca, REV. MR. WASE, C.S.C., '60. PETER CROTTY, '61, Buffalo, signing for PAUL, '62, JIM, '64, and BOB, '66, PROF. ALVAN RYAN, English Dept., on location In Gemianv, 
JOHN CLARK, '58, Ne«- Haven whh U.S. Forct-s in France, Father of JOE, '60, and JI.M BISIG­NANO, '61, Des Moines, BOB COTE, '60, Nashua. .X.H., JIM AL\LONE, '58, and Sister ROXIE, '63, SMC. Jim is working for doctorate in Science U. of Freiburg. Germany, and Roxic vear-abroad In Vienna, DICK AMAR.\L. '59. Dighton, Mass., NfARY JO CONNELLY, '63, and ANNE MELIA, '63, of St. Mary's, and AMSLIE LYONS SMITH, '08, St. Mar>-'s, mind you. staying with us for a month, parents of RICHARD, *57, and ROBERT VAN AUKEN, '58, Shaker Hts., Ohio, REV. THOMAS TAYLOR, '54, M.A., Davenport, Iowa, ANTHONY RIBAUDO, '59, St. Louis, with Armed Forces in France, and FATHER JACK KEEFE, CS.C , '55, Uganda, East .Africa. 
—VINCE McALOOX, '34, Secy 

Sciginaw Valley 
Saginaw Valley Notre Dame Club met in a body with their families at the Holy Family Church on Sunday, April 1, and 145 were in attendance. A delicious breakfast was ser\ed after Mass in the school social hall by the Holy Family Altar Society. One minute of silence was obser\-ed in mcmor\* of ALFRED SLAGGERT, a Notre Dame graduate. 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1962 
On May 1, the Notre Dame Club met at the Rodeitchcr Hotel in Freeland. Dick Davis of WKNX-TV and Radio showed a wildlife film, which was the feature of the evening. Tlic dinner was a local observance of Universal Notre Dame night. Thirty University Alumni from Saginaw, Bay City and Midland attended. 
—LAWRE.VCE A. SMFTH, Secx-
St. Joseph Valley 
TIic 39th annual Universal Notre Dame Night of the St. Joseph Valley Club was a gala dinner May 1 at the Morris Inn on the X'otre Dame campus. 
Guest speaker was the chairman of the Republican X'ational Committee, X'ew York Congressman WIL­LL\.M E. MILLER, '35 (not Dean of Freshmen William Miller Burke, as mistakenly reported in the last issue). Representing the University was DR. GEORGE N . SHUSTER, '15, assistant to the presi­dent of Notre Dame. The chaplain. REV. JOSEPH 
D. B.ARRY, CS.C , '35, gave the benediction. Presiding was the retiring president, ROBERT CAHILL, '34. 
.ALBERT McG.ANN reported on the Scholarship Trust Fund, which had reached $65,000, and $5,000 in scholarship payments were turned over to the University to supplement $9,150 already turned over to the University as donations for the Chal­lenge program. The Valley Club fund has helped 35 scholars to go to Notre Dame In the past 15 years. Treasurer JOSEPH F. DILLON also re­ported on the Club's finances. 
New officers were introduced by President-elect GERALD G. HAMMES, who succeeds BOB CA­HILL. THO.MAS HANLON succeeds Hammcs as vice-president; WILLI.AM MEEH.AN replaces Han-Ion as secretary; and JOE DILLON was re-elected treasurer. X*cw directors arc TOM SHEEHAN, '51; ED GRAY, '52; DICK CLEARY, '50; CHARLIE MAGNER, '40; and JOHN O'BRIEN, '48. Retiring directors are DON FISHER, JOE HANN.AN, BURNIE BAUER, and DICK RILEY. Continuing directors include BOB LEH.MAN, BILL KLEM, W.AYNE WAHL, TO.M BATH, SAM EDER, AL LESKO, and FRANK SULLIVAN. 
JOE H.ANNAN was honored for his long service to the Club with the Notre Dame Man of the Year Award. W.A\'NE F. WAHL was chairman for the event. 
Tlie annual Notre Dame Golf Day was held on the Burke Memorial Course June 12. TOM SHEEHAN was chairman. 
St. Louis 
On Tuesday evening April 24, IS62 the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis held Its annual Universal 
WASHINGTON — Senator Thomas J. Dodd of Connecticut shared the podium with Father Hesburgh at the District of Columbia observance of 
U.N.D. Night last May 2. 
Notre Dame Night at Stan Musial & Biggie's 
Restaurant. ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE tras our. 
guest, and Jack Buck, a prominent St. Louis prr-^ 
sonality and sportscaster, was our loastmaster. 
GEORGE CONVY u-as named Notre Dame "Man 
of the Year." He received his award from last 
year's recipient, DR. BERTRAND COUGHLIN. 
Our new officers were named at the dinner. 

Next vear's president is JAMES A. PUDLOWSKI. 
Vice-Presidents are BOB .McAULIFFE, BILL 
HORMBERG and JERRY McGLYNN. Sccretar%-­
Treasurer is HER.M KRIEGSHAUSER. 
Xewly elected members of llic Board of Directors 

!o serve four vear terms are AL VIl"l, JERRY 
.McGLYNN, ^LARK .\L\LEY, and HERM KRIEGS­
HAUSER. Elected to (ill two vacancies on the 
board were JOE ROHS and CONNIE L,\NE. 
—HERMAN L. KRIEGSHAUSER, Secy. 

St. Petersburg-Tampa 
DR. WILLI.V.M M. BURKE, newly appointed dean of freshmen at the University, was the princi­pal speaker when the Florida West Coast Chapter of the Notre Dame .\himni .-Vssociation met for their part in the 39tll annual observance of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. The dinner was held on Wednesday. April 25, at Moock's in St. Petersburg. 
San Antonio 
Installation of the new officers took place here on 

our celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night on 
April 24. 1962. With a gathering of 32 people we 
were able to raise an additional $200.00 for the M 
Notre Dame Foundation. 
Our club officers for the 1962-63 vear are: LEO 

J. P.\RADISE, '49, President: WILLIAM LAMM, '30, Vice-President; and JAMES CARROLL, '55, Secretary-Treasurer. 
—LEO J. PARADISE, Pns 

San Diego 
JOHN CAWXEY, '49, research stafT member of 

General Atomic, was elected president of the Notre 
Dame Club of San Diego at the annual business and 
election meeting. He succeeds FRED FOWLER. 
Other ofHcets elected include CHRIS COHAN, 

'54, vice-president; TOM HUGHES, '11, recording 
secretary; LES HEGELE, '28, corresponding secre­
tary; JOHN MURPHY, '31, treasurer, and RT. 
REV. .MSGR. FRANCIS C. OTT, '13. chaplain. M 
Tlie club arranged to have MSGR. OTT offer a " 

Requiem Mass for the repose of the soul of FRED 
N. RUIZ of La Jolla, 1928 law graduate and mem­ber of the local Notre Dame club who died Feb­ruar>- 7. 
Tile club also approved a $75 donation to the University's Foundation Drive, which is being di­rected in San Diego bv JERRY BILL and JOHN SULLI\'AN. 
—LES HEGELE, Secy-

San Fernando 
.•\t the February meeting of the Club, THO.MAS DUNLAY, '32, JACK KELLY, '50, and DWAIN ^ SPENCER, '56, were elected president, vicc-prcsi-V dent, and secretary-treasurer respectively for two-year terms. 
Retiring officers are JOHN LEONARD, '34, president, EDWARD DOWLING, '38, vice-president, and GEORGE SCHNEIDER, '44, secretary-treasur­er. A tremendous vote of thanks is due these men who carried the burden through the two formative years of the Club. 
—DWAIN F. SPENCER, Secy-Treas. 

Scranton 
New ofiicers of the Scranton Club arc DICK MARSHALL, president; EARL HOL.MES, vice-president; JOSEPH McDADE, treasurer; and BILL COMERFORD, secretary. 
For July the Club planned its annual picnic with Holy Cross alumni. 
South Central Wisconsin * 
On Sunday, April 29, 1962, the South Central Wisconsin Notre Dame Club obscr\-ed Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner at Welch's Embcn in Madison. Mr. Martin Croak, Special Investigator for the F.B.L was our guest speaker. 
Club president, JOHN W. ROACH, '27, un­veiled the club's plans for celebrating the X'otre Dame football team's victory* over the University of Wisconsin in the Crystal Ballroom of the Loratnc Hotel on Saturday, October 13. Wc hope that many ^ of Notre Dame's friends will celebrate with us. ™ ^ ^ Arrangements for holding the annual summer out­
in g at the Mt. Horeb Golf Bowl on July 27 are completed. Each club member is encouraged to bring guests to this affair. 
The club expresses Its thanks to the THOMAS 
W. FROST. *30, family for bringing FATHER GEORGE WELSH, C.S.C., of St. Bernard's church in Watertown, to our meeting. 
—THO.MAS M. HINKES, Sco" 

Spokane 
Club members and their wives participated in the second annual Pot-Luck Supper on Februar\' 27. The event was in the nature of a Mard! Gras and was held in the Glacier Room of the Rainier Brcw­er>-. DR. JIM ROTCHFORD, '49, and his gracious 
^^wife. Mary, were in charge of the afTair and, with the assistance of the other ladies, arranged a won­derfully satisfying smorgasbord. BERNIE SMYTH, '56, and GARY MYERS, '59, wrestled a piano into the room to provide means for much harmonizing as Bernie's lovely wife, Barbara, presided at the keys. During the evening the hat was passed for the benefit of the Bengal Bouts at the University. In addition to tliose previously mentioned, the following members and their wives attended: MONK ALBO, '35; ED BETHKE. '28; JIM CONNELLY, '48; FR^VNK HERRON. '35; BOB MERZ, '47; JOHN O'NEILL, '29; RAY PENUVND, '56; RALPH SCHULLER, '57; and JOE WALSH, 14. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was obserwd on May 14, when the Club members, their wives and friends gathered in Tlic Cotton Room of The 
• Plantation Restaurant for a most enjoyable time. The tables were attractively decorated with unique centerpieces tn gold and blue, designed and made bv GARY MYERS', '59, wife, Jane. BERNIE SM\'TH, *56. outgoing President, as Master of Ceremonies, added much to the pleasure oF the evening. The principal speaker was Attorney Robert Dellwo, of the Spokane Bar .-Vssociation. whose talk on the encyclical. "Mater et Magistra" and our personal eNemplificatinn of its principles, was most interesting and informative. Election of officers took place during the evening wiili these results: Presi­dent. GARY .MYERS, '59; Vice-President. DR. JI.M ROTCHFORD, '49; and Secretar>-Treasurer. JOE WALSH, '14. In addition to those mentioned above, the following were present: ED BETHKE, '28; JI.M CONNELLY, '48; FR.\N FU\NNERY, '31; FRANK 
^HAGENBARTH, '27; FRxVNK HERRON, '35; DR. 
PCURRA N HIGGINS, '49; DR. BOB MAHER, '35; JOHN O'NEILL, '29; R/\Y PENL.-\ND, '56; BOB ROTCHFORD, '48; DICK ST. JOHN, '56; and VINCE SL.ATT, '43. 
—JOE WALSH, '14. Sec>--Treas. 

Terre Haute 
The Notre Dame Chib of Terre Haute celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 30. A dinner dance was held in the Terre Haute House. The Terre Haute Club announced the Notre Dame "Man of Tlie Year" as MYRON J. BUSBY. SR. Busby is an associate member of the Club. His son, 
^ MYRON BUSBY, JR., is a junior at the University 
^o f Notre Dame. During the meeting new officers were also an­nounced: President. JIM SULLIVAN, '55; Vice-President, BERNIE BURDICK; Secretary, JIM BOYER, '49; and Treasurer, CHARLES METZ­GER, '47. 
—JIM BOYER, Secy 

Toledo 
The Notre Dame Club of Toledo was fortunate to have as its guest REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., at its annual Universal Notre Dame Night obser\-ancc. This year's affair included a cocktail party and dinner at the Syl\-ania Couulr>' Club. Mav 15. Chairmen TO.M WELLY, RICHARD MERKEL, and NOEL BLANK handled the fes­tivities. 

Father Joyce's topic was the Pope's encyclical 
^ "Mater et Magistra" and he stressed the personal 
P and public responsibility of the Notre Dame man In our society. 
URB.AN F. GRADEL and RICHARD COLA­SURD were elected to the Board of Directors from nominations which included TOM WELLY, RICH­ARD MERKEL, and BLAINE WILEY. 
URBAN F. GRADEL will chairman a summer coif outing this year. —H. J. KALBAS, Sec>­
^Tri-Cifies 
m Our local club obscr\ed Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 30, at the Plantation Club in Mollne, Illinois, with the Reverend Francis O. Nealy being the featured speaker. The capsule com­ment from the club members and their wives was that Father Nealy sure did a great job. J. RALPH CORYN was chairman of this event and he was the most surprised man In the audience to find out, later in the evening, that he had been chosen Notre Dame "Man of the Year." This was only the fourth such award made by the Tri-CIty Club. 
New officers were elected and they are as follows: President, JACK BUSH; Vice-President. BOB CORYN; Secretary-Treasurer, JOHN HERR; New Board Members, PETE LOU5BERG and MIKE UNDERWOOD; Hold-ovcr Directors. DAN HEEL­ER, GENE GERWE and JERRY CULLIGAN. 
JACK BUSH has already Indicated that he and the other officers arc in the process of appointing chairmen for the forthcoming events. 
—JAMES J. CORYN, Sec%-Treas. 
Triple Cities 
Tlie University of Notre Dame .Mumni Club of the Triple Cities celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a sirloin tip dinner at the Carlton Hotel. BInghamton. N.Y.. on Thursday evening, April 26. Speaker of the evening was JIM ARM­STRONG, National .Alumni Secretar>'. who was ac­companied by his wife. Mr. Armstrong brought to us an extremely interesting discussion of the Notre Dame of 1962, sharing with us his obser\atIons of Notre Dame's continued spiritual and phj-sical de­velopment. His thoughtful remarks helped resolve many questions foremost in our minds. 
REV. LEO SULLIVAN, C.S.C., Resident Mis­sionary in Pakistan, gave the Invocation and Bene­diction. 
The affair was attended by a total of 44 alumni, wives, students, future students, parents and friends and for our second venture since the club's reorgan­ization was highly successful. 
—JOHN J. O'ROURKE, '49. Secy 
Tucson 
Universal Notre Dame Night brought forth quite 
an array of alumni and friends In Tucson. .Arizona. 
Those in attendance were doublv blessed bv the ap­
pearance of FATHER JOHN WALSH,' C.S.C., 
Foundation Director, and his mother (who did not 
"fall asleep" during her son's eloquent description 
of Notre Dame's past and her outlook for the 
future). 
Upwards of 50 husbands, wives, bachelors, digni­
tar>* and just plain people gathered at the Pioneer 
Hotel (general managed by alumnus JIM DUR­
BIN) to partake of a sumptuous bit of culinary* art 
prior to Father John's Introduction by PAUL 
MATZ, local club prexy. 
Quite glibly did Father John both Introduce his charming mother and at the same time request "an additional cup of coffee for her so I won't put her to sleep." 
Indeed — ever>'one waxed most attentive as Father John depicted the University's quest for "greatness in all things." The resultant applause and question-answer period reflected the enthusiasm and sincerity of Father John's fine dissertation of the University's monumental strides forward in all phases of the academic life. 
The good Father was presented with a '"robust envelope" — a portion of Tucson's alumni con­tribution. 
We are happy to report that during the past year or two — the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Tucson has been somewhat revitalized. It is "plan­ning and meeting" rather titan just "thinking." 
We will also strive, through the columns of the ALUMNUS, to keep the general alumni aware of our individual and collective activities. 
We should have much to talk about because our membership includes a plethora of lawvers Includ­ing JOHN LINDBERG, a member of the U.S. At­torney's office! 
Good luck . . . and when vacationing this sum­mer . . . visit Tucson. We have cowboys. Indians . . . and Notre Dame alumni! 
Tulsa 
REV. JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C., assistant to the president and director of the Notre Dame Founda­tion, was a guest at the Universal Notre Dame Night obser^'ance of the Notre Dame Club of Tulsa, held at the Cup Club on Thursday, April 26. Piesident MARION BLAKE presided at the dinner. 
Utah 
The Utah Alumni Club played host to REV. PHILIP S. MOORE, C.S.C., Academic Assistant to the President, in its celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night, April 26. DON RONEY, Club Presi­dent, presided over the dinner meeting while PHIL 
J. PURCELL, Utah Foundation chairman, rejKtrted that our State reached its financial goal. 
Tlie following day Father Moore spoke before the Salt Lake City Junior Chamber of Commerce on the very timely subject of the problems of education. 
The Utah Club was greatly honored by Father Moore's visit. —LEONARD J. DI GL\COMO, Secy 
Washington, D.C. 
The Annual Family Communion Breakfast ^vas held last April 8 at Holy Cross College. Latin America's tremendous importance to the Church and to the United States was dbctissed in a talk by REV. RONAN HOFFMAN, OF.M Conv., of Catholic University, a noted Latin-American ex­pert. Also invited were such Latin-American authorities as MSGR. FRANCO BRAMBILLA, Apostolic Delegation; MSGR. JAMES F. MAGNER, Catholic U.; Ambassador SEVILLA SACASSA, Nicaraitua; .Ambassadt-r FERNANDO BERCKE­MEYER, Peru: and JAMES FONSECA, editor of Xoticias Catolicas. JOHN V. HINKEL was chair­man. 
FATHER HESBURGH spoke on the University's 

Peace Corps ciTort in Chile, and Senator THO%L\S 
DODD of Connecticut discussed the role of the 
educated Catholic layman in today's world on 
Universal Notre Dame Night. May 2 at the 
Sheralon-Carllon Hotel. Chairman KARRY W. 
FLANNERY was assbted by GAYLORD HAAS. 
BILL KAV.AN.AUGH was named Man of the Year. 
The Club helped make arrangements for a joint concert of the Xotre Dame and Trinity College Glee Clubs at Trinity on .April 30. AL VIROSTEK and BOB HUTCHISON were in charge of a special 
N.D. section in the auditorium. 
New officers were elected in .April and installed on Universal Xotre Dame Night. Tlicv are: WIL­LIAM B. MIDDENDORF, president: ALBERT A. VIROSTEK, vice-president: RICHARD L SCHOEN­FELDER, secretary; JOSEPH P. MALONEY, treasurer; JOSEPH L. BORDA and retiring Presi­dent ROBERT N. HUTCHISON, Board of Gov-
West Virginia 
Tlic Xotre Dame Club of West Virginia celebrated Universal Xotre Dame Xicht with a dinner in Charleston on April 28. 1962. MR. ED KRAUSE, Athletic Director of the University of Xotre Dame, was the guest speaker. Mr. Krause gave a talk on the University's present and future plans before an enthusiastic audience. 
Tlie Xotre Dame Man of the Year Award was presented to CY REICH. Cy was cited for his out­standing service to many civic and parish organiza­tions in the area. 
Tlie following members and their wives were present at the dinner: JACK ALESSENDRINI, WEB ARCENEAUX, JIM BECKMAN. RUDY De-TR.\PANO, JOE FALLON, LARRY HESS,-JOHN KAEMMERER, TOM KENNELL, BILL KENNEY, DON LEIS, JOE NEENAN, BILL MINGES, CY REICH, BILL REISHMAN, VINCE REISHMAN, DICK SHAFER, FRANK SHEETS, PAT TONER, WALT TOUISS.ANT, JOHN IVELCH, GEORGE THO.MPSON, and J. C. HIGGINS. 
This year's Xotre Dame Night dinner was one of the outstanding events in the history of the club. —RICHARD J. SH.AFER, Secy-Treas 
Western Washington 
Eighty members, wives, and guests of the Notre Dame Club of Western Washington attended the Universal Xotre Dame Xight on April 24, at the Washington Athletic Club, Seattle. REV. EDMUND JOYCE, C.S.C., was the campus guest and speaker. The X'otre Dame Man of the Year award was given to DAN CONLEY, '28. The new ofBcers for 1962­19&t were announced as: President, FRED HOOV­ER, '43, '47; Vice-President, AL TOTH, '49; Treasurer. TOM MAY, '33; Secretary. MILLARO BATTLES, '33, '36. New directors are: Seattle, AL TOTH, '49; BILL HERBER, '58; BUD DAVIS­COURT, '34; Tacoma, BOB MALLON, '33; and Western Washington, TOM BRENNAN, '31. 
—MILLARD T. BATTLES, JR., Secy 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 31 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME Night award winners are congratulated by principals of Chicago's U.N.D. Night dinner 
at the Palmer House (I.-r.): .Art Conrad, first \ice-presidcnt; Paul Fullmer, second vice-president; Jim Armstrong, national secretary 
of the Alumni Assn.; Dr. John Taylor, executive director of educational television station WTTW, winner of the third 
aimual "Decency in Entertainment" award; and Bert Metzger, Chicago Club secretary; (at right) Cliff Noonan, member of the board of governors; Thomas Bcacom, named Notre Dame Man of the Year, member of the University's Board of Lay 
Trustees and prominent Chicago layman; Hon. William P. Mahoaey, Jr., national alumni president and newly appointed ambassador 
to Ghana; Joe Pagliari, retiring president of the Chicago Club; and Jack Barry, installed as 1962-63 president. . 
Notre Dame Image 
Continued from page 21 

athletic or social. Oddly, enough, tliis 
fear occurs more frequently among 
extremely intelligent and successful 
alumni and friends. To nie this in­
dicates that their image of Notre Dame 
is one of a center of intelligent stimulus, 
and serious purpose, but a carefully 
controlled intelligence in which com-< 
mon sense is the hard core, and its 
expansion is more inconspicuous than 
emblazoned in contests and recog­
nitions. 
I think the fear stems from the belief that too much emphasis on the im­usual creates a climate in which the much greater attention and purpose embodied in the usual is jeopardized. 
GREATER MIAMI — At the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner-dance in May at the Miami Shores Country Club (l.-r.) Club President Dr. William McShanc looks on as The truth of the situation is that ' James A. Smith, former president, receives Miami's Man of the Year award from 
while conditions in higlier education Charles E. Mahcr, another former president, now chairman of the board of directors. 
generally have brought the spotliglits into focus on academic competition in such areas as the Danforth and ^\'iIson and Rhodes and Root scholarships and fellowships, and where College En­trance Board scores arc a criterion of progress as they push higher and higher from a combination of selectivity and preparation, there is no essential pen­alty on the usual and the normal stu­dent. If anything, he prospers sub­consciously. Just as the presence of cliampionships and All-.'^mericans sharpens the interest and the edge of the men and teams that play in their shadow, so the presence of academic 
achievement stimulates the interest and 

OKLAHOMA CITY-Jack Siegrist looil high school student ch»en as the Oklahoma . ^ ^j ^j^^ j^^^,^^ ^ ^^^ members of all City Club s seventh annual "Boy of the Year, appears at the U.N.D. Night rostrum u i j with three honored guests, (from left) Father Walsh from Notre Dame, Monsignor Isenbart ""= classes and courses. and Bishop Reed from the Diocese of Oklahoma City. Contmued on page 49 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
Who will go to collegie^and where? .:• 
What ,will they  find?  ;  V  /- ' y  
Who Mil  teach them?  '  ,  
' Will they graduate?  ••  i' :  ;  

What will college have done for Jhem? ^ ., Who willpayr-aridhow? "i ^i 
ILL MY CHILDREN GET INTO COLLEGE?" 
The question haunts most parents. Here is 
"W; the answer: Yes. 

•
 If they graduate from high school or preparatory school with'something better than a "scrape-by" record. 

•
 If they apply to the college or university that is right for them—aiming their sights (and their application forms) neither too high nor too low, but with an individu­ality and precision made possible by sound guidance both in school and in their home. , 


•, //"America's colleges and universities can find,the resources to carry out their plans to meet the huge de­mand for higher education that is certain to exist in this country for years to come. 
The ifs surrounding your children and the college of tomorrow are matters of concern to everyone involved— to parents, to children, to alumni and alumnae (whatever their parental status), and to the nation's educators. But resolving them is by no means being left to chance. 
• The colleges know what they must do, if they are to 
meet the needs of your children and others of your chil­dren's generation. Their planning is well beyond the hand­. wringing stage. ; 
•
 The colleges know the likely cost of putting their plans into effect. They know this cost, both in money and in manpower, will be staggering. But most of them are already embarked upon finding the means of meeting it. 

•
 Governments—local,: state, and federal—are also deeply involved in educational planning and financing. Some parts of the country are far ahead of others. But no region is vtrithout its planners and its doers in this 


field. ' :•••. . .•.•>•>;.'•••:;•;;:••; 
• Public demand—not only for expanded facilities for higher education, but for ever-better quality in bigJKT education—today is more insistent, more informed than • ever before. With this gi-owth of public sophistication. about higher education, it is now clear to mosit intelligent parents that they themselves must take a leading role in guiding their children's educatiotial careers-':'and in making certain that the college of tomorrpw will be ready, and good, for. them. • ' .•'• 
This special report is in the form of a guide to parents'. But we suspect that every read-: -\: ,er, parent or not, will find the story of higher education's future, remarkably exciting. 
y/A/here will your children go to college? 
I
AST FALL, more than one million students enrolled in the freshman classes of U.S. colleges and univer­
-^ sities. They came from wealthy families, middle-
income families, poor families; from all races, here and 
abroad; from virtually every religious faith. 
Over the next ten years, the number of students will 
grow enormously. Around 1964 the long-predicted "tidal 
wave" of young people, bom in the postwar era and 
steadily moving upward through the nation's school sys­
tems ever since, will engulf the college campuses. By 1970 
the population between the ages of 18 and 21—now 
around 10.2 million—will have grown to 14.6 million. 
College enrollment, now less than 4 million, will be at 
least 6.4 milUon, and perhaps far more. 
The character of the student bodies will also have changed. More than half of the full-time students in the country's four-year colleges are already coming from lower-middle and low income groups. With expanding scholarship, loan, and self-help programs, this trend will continue strong. Non-white college students—who in the past decade have more than doubled in number and now compose about 7 per cent of the total enrollment—will continue to increase. (Non-whites formed 11.4 per cent of the U.S. population in the 1960 census.) The number of married students will grow. The average age of students will continue its recent rise. 
The sheer force of this great wave of students is enough to take one's breath away. Against this force, what chance has American higher education to stand strong, to main­tain standards, to improve quality, to keep sight of the 
• individual student? 

And, as part of the gigantic population swell, what chances have your children? 
TO BOTH QUESTIONS, there are some encouraging answers. At the same time, the intelligent parent will not ignore some danger signals. 
FINDING ROOM FOR EVERYBODY NOT EVERY COLLEGE or University in the country is able to expand its student capacity. A number have concluded that, for one persuasive reason or another, they must maintain their present enrollments. They are not blind to the need of American higher education, in the aggregate, to accommodate more students in the years ahead;indeed. 
they are keenly aware of it. But for reasons offinance, of 
faculty limitations, of space, of philosophy, of function, of 
geographic location—or of a combination of these and 
other restrictions—they cannot grow. 
Many other institutions, public and private, are expand­
ing their enrollment capacities and will continue to do so: 
Private institutioiis: Currently, colleges and universities 
under independent auspices enroll around 1,500,000 
students—some 40 per cent of the U.S. college popula­
tion. In the future, many privately supported institutions 
will grow, but slowly in comparison with publicly sup­
ported institutions. Thus the total number of students at 
private institutions will rise, but their percentage of the 
total college population wiU become smaller. 
Public institutions: State and locally supported colleges 
and universities are expanding their capacity steadily. In 
the years ahead they will carry by far the heaviest share of 
America's growing student population. 
• Despite their growth, many of them are already feeling the strain of the burden. Many state institutions, once committed to accepting any resident with a high-school diploma, are now imposing entrance requirements upon applicants. Others, required by law or long tradition not to turn away any high-school graduate who applies, resort in desperation to a high flunk-out rate in the freshman year in order to whittle down their student bodies to manageable size. In other states, coordinated systems of higher education are being devised to accommodate 
COPYRtGHT 1962 BY EDnORIAL PK0JECI5 FOR EDUCATION 
students of differing aptitudes, high-school academic records, and career goals. 
Two-year colleges: Growing at a faster rate than any other segment of U.S. higher education is a group com­prising both public and independently supported institu­tions: the two-year, or "junior," colleges. Approximately 600 now exist in the United States, and experts estimate that an average of at least 20 per year will be established in the coming decade. More than 400 of the two-year institutions are community colleges, located within com­muting distance of their students. 
These colleges provide three main services: education for students who will later transfer to four-year colleges or universities (studies show they often do as well as those who go directly from high school to a four-year institu­tion, and sometimes better), terminal training for voca­tions (more and more important as jobs require higher technical skills), and adult education and community cultural activities. 
Evidence of their importance: One out of every four students beginning higher education today does so in a two-year college. By 1975, the ratio is likely to be one in two. 
Branch campuses: To meet local demands for educa­tional institutions, some state universities have opened branches in population centers distant from their main campuses. The trend is likely to continue. On occasion, however, the "branch campus" concept may conflict with the "community college" concept. In Ohio, for example, proponents of community two-year colleges are currently arguing that locally controlled community institutions are the best answer to the state's college-enrollment prob­lems. But Ohio State University, Ohio University, and Miami University, which operate off-campus centers and whose leaders advocate the establishment of more, say that taxpayers get better value at lower cost from a uni­versity-run branch-campus system. 
Coordinated systems: To meet both present and future demands for higher education, a number of states are attempting to coordinate their existing colleges and universities and to lay long-range plans for developing new ones. 
California, a leader in such efforts, has a "master plan" involving not only the three main types of publicly sup­ported institutions—the state university, state colleges, and locally sponsored two-year colleges. Private institu­tions voluntarily take part in the master planning, also. 
With at least 661,000 students expected in their colleges and universities by 1975, Californians have worked out a plan under which every high-school graduate will be eUgible to attend a junior college; the top one-third will be eligible for admission to a state college; and the top one-eighth will be eligible to go directly from high school to the University of California. The plan is flexible: stu­dents who prove themselves in a junior college, for 
aLUSTRATIONS BY PEGGY SOUCHECK 

example, may transfer to the university. If past experience 
is a guide, many will—with notable academic success. . 
T
HUS IT IS LIKELY that somewhere in America's nearly 2,000 colleges and universities there will be room for your children. How will you—and they—find it? 
On the same day in late May of last year, 33,559 letters went out to young people who had applied for admission to the 1961 freshman class in one or more of the eight schools that compose the Ivy League. Of these letters, 20,248 were rejection notices. 
Not all of the 20,248 had been misguided in applying. Admissions officers testify that the quality of the 1961 ap­plicants was higher than ever before, that the competition was therefore intense, and that many applicants who might have been welcomed in other years had to be turned away in'61. 
Even so, as in years past, a number of the applicants had been the victims of bad advice—from parents, teachers, and friends. Had they applied to other institu­tions, equally or better suited to their aptitudes and abilities, they would have been accepted gladly, avoiding the bitter disappointment, and the occasional tragedy, of a turndown. 
The Ivy League experience can be, and is, repeated in dozens of other colleges and universities every spring. Yet, while some institutions are rejecting more applica­tions than they can accept, others (perhaps better qualified to meet the rejected students' needs) still have openings in their freshman classes on registration day. 
Educators, both in the colleges and in the secondary schools, are aware of the problems in "niarrying" the right students to the right colleges. An intensive effort is under way to relieve them. In the future, you may expect: 
• Better guidance by high-school counselors, based on 
improved testing methods and on improved understanding of individual colleges and their offerings. ^ Better definitions, by individual colleges and univer­sities, of their philosophies of admission, their criteria for choosing students, their strengths in meeting the needs of certain types of student and their weakness in meeting the needs of others. 
• Less parental pressure on their offspring to attend: the college or university that mother or father attended; the college or university that "everybody else's children" are attending; the college or university that enjoys the greatest sports-page prestige, the greatestfinancial-page prestige, or the greatest society-page prestige in town. ^ More awareness that children are different from one another, that colleges are different from one another, and that a happy match of children and institutions is within the reach of any parent (and student) who takes the pains to pursue it intelligently. 
• Exploration—but probably, in the near future, no widespread adoption—of a central clearing-house for col­lege applications, with students stating their choices of colleges in preferential order and colleges similarly listing their choices of students. The "clearing-house" would thereupon match students and institutions according to their preferences. 
Despite the likely growth of these practices, applying to college may well continue to be part-chaos, part-panic, part-snobbishness for years to come. But with the aid of enlightened parents and educators, it will be less so, tomorrow, than it is today. 
\^ha t will they find in college? 
T
HE COLLEGE OF TOMORROW—the One your children willfind when they get in—is likely to differ from the college you knew in your days as a student. The students themselves will be different. Curricula will be different. Extracurricular activities will be different, in many 
respects, from what they were in your day. The college year, as well as the college day, may be 
different. Modes of study will be different. With one or two conspicuous exceptions, the changes 
will be for the better. But for better or for worse, changes there will be. 
THE NEW BREED OF STUDENTS IT WILL COME AS NEWS to no parents that their children are different from themselves. 
Academically, they are proving to be more serious than many of their predecessor generations. Too serious, some 
• say. They enter college with an eye already set on the vocation they hope to pursue when they get out; college, to many, is simply the means to that end. 
Many students plan to marry as soon as they can afford to, and some even before they can afford to. They want families, homes, a fair amount of leisure, good jobs, security. They dream not of a far-distant future; today's students are impatient to translate their dreams into 
reality, soon. 

Like most generalizations, these should be qualified. There will be students who are quite far from the average, and this is as it should be. But with international ten­sions, recurrent war threats, military-service obligations, and talk of utter destruction of the race, the tendency is for the young to want to cram their lives full of living— with no unnecessary delays, please. 
At the moment, there is little likelihood that the urge to pace one's life quickly and seriously will soon pass. This is the tempo the adult world has set for its young, and they will march doubletime to it. 
Economic backgrounds of students will continue to grow more diverse. In recent years, thanks to scholar­ships, student loans, and the spectacular growth of public educational institutions, higher education has become less and less the exclusive province of the sons and daughters of the well-to-do. The spread of scholarship and loan programs geared to family income levels will in­tensify this trend, not only in low-tuition public colleges and universities but in high-tuition private institutions. 
Stndentsfrom foirei^ countries willflock to the U.S. for college education, barring a totally deteriorated interna­tional situation. Last year 53,107 foreign students, from 143 countries and political areas, were enrolled in 1,666 American colleges and universities—^almost a 10 per cent increase over the year before. Growing numbers of African and Asian students accounted for the rise; the growth is virtually certain to continue. The presence of such students on U.S. campuses—50 per cent of them are undergraduates—has already contributed to a greater international awareness on the part of American stu­dents. The influence is bound to grow. 
Foreign study by U.S. students is increasing. In 1959-60, the most recent year reported, 15,306 were enrolled in 63 foreign countries, a 12 per cent increase in a period of 12 months. Students traveling abroad during summer vaca­tions add impressive numbers to this total. 
WHAT THEY'LL STUDY STUDIES ARE in the course of change, and the changes will affect your children. A new toughness in academic standards will reflect the great amount of knowledge that must be imparted in the college years. 
In the sciences, changes are particularly obvious. Every decade, writes Thomas Stelson of Carnegie Tech, 25, per cent of the curriculum must be abandoned, due to obsolescence. J. Robert Oppenheimer puts it another way: nearly everything now known in science, he says, "was not in any book when most of us went to school." 
There will be differences in the social sciences and humanities, as well. Language instruction, now getting new emphasis, is an example. The use of language lab­oratories, with tape recordings and other mechanical devices, is already popular and will spread. Schools once preoccupied almost entirely with science and technology (e.g., colleges of engineering, leading medical schools) have now integrated social and humanistic studies into their curricula, and the trend will spread to other institu­tions. 
International emphasis also will grow. The big push will be related to nations and regions outside the Western World. For thefirst time on a large scale, the involvement of U.S. higher education will be truly global. This non-Western orientation, says one college president (who is seconded by many others) is "the new frontier in Ameri­can higher education." For undergraduates, comparative studies in both the sodal sciences and the humanities are likely to be stressed. The hoped-for result: better under­standing of the human experience in all cultures. 
Mechanics of teaching will improve. "Teaching ma­chines" will be used more and more, as educators assess their value and versatility (see Who will teach them? on the following pages). Oosed-ciicuit television will carry a lecturer's voice and closeup views of his demonstrations to hundreds of students simultaneously. TV and microfilm will grow in usefulness as library tools, enabling institu­tions to duplicate, in small space, the resources of distant libraries and specialized rare-book collections. Tape recordings will put music and drama, performed by masters, on every campus. Computers, already becoming almost commonplace, will be used for more and more study and research purposes. 
This availability of resources unheard-of in their parents' day will enable undergraduates to embark on extensive programs of independent study. Under careful faculty guidance, independent study wiU equip students with research ability, problem-solving techniques, and bibliographic savvy which should be of immense value to them throughout their lives. Many of yesterday's college graduates still don't know how to work creatively in un-. familiar intellectual territory: to pinpoint a problem, formulate intelligent questions, use a library, map a re­search project. There will be far fewergaps of this sort in the training of tomorrow's students. 
Great new stress on quality will be found at all institu­tions. Impending explosive growth of the college popula­tion has put the spotlight, for years, on handling large numbers of students; this has worried educators who feared that quality might be lost in a national preoccupa­tion with quantity. Big institutions, particularly those with "growth situations," are now putting emphasis on main­taining high academic standards—and even raising them —while handling high enrollments, too. Honors pro­grams, opportunities for undergraduate research, in­sistence on creditable scholastic achievement are symp­tomatic of the concern for academic excellence. 
It's important to realize that this emphasis on quality will be found not only in four-year colleges and universi­ties, but in two-year institutions, also. "Each [type of institution] shall strive for excellence in its sphere," is how the California master plan for higher education puts it; the same idea is pervading higher education at all levels throughout the nation. 
WHERE'S THE FUN? EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITY has been undergoing subtle changes at colleges and universities for years and is likely 
to continue doing so. Student apathy toward some ac­tivities—political clubs, forexample—is lessening. Toward other actixities—the light, the frothy—apathy appears to be growing. There is less interest fn spectator sports, more interest in participant sports that will be playable for most of a lifetime. Student newspapers, observes the dean of students at a college on the Eastern seaboard, no longer rant about band uniforms, closing hours for fraternity parties, and the need for bigger pep rallies. Sororities are disappearing from the campuses of women's colleges. "Fun festivals" are granted less time and importance by students; at one big midwestern university, for example, the events of May Week—formerly a five-day wingding involving floats, honorary-fraternity initiations, faculty-student baseball, and crowning of the May Queen—are now crammed into one half-day. In spite of the well-publicized antics of a relatively few roof-raisers {e.g., student rioters at several summer resorts last Labor Day, student revelers at Florida resorts during spring-vacation periods), a new seriousness is the keynote of most student 
activities. 

"The faculty and administration are more resistant to these changes than the students are," jokes the president of a women's college in Pittsburgh. "The typical student congress wants to abolish the junior prom; the dean is the one who feels nostalgic about it: 'That's the one event 
Mrs. Jones and I looked forward to each year.'" 
A QUEST FOR ETHICAL VALUES EDUCATION, niiore and more educators are saying, "should 
be much more than the mere retention of subject matter." 
Here are three indications of how the thoughts of many educators are running: < 
"If [the student] enters college and pursues either an intellectual smorgasbord, intellectual Teutonism, or the. cash register," says a midwestern educator, "his educa­tion will have advanced very little, if at all. The odds are quite good that he will simply have exchanged one form of barbarism for another .. . Certainly there is no incom­patibility between being well-informed and being stupid; such a condition makes the student a danger to himself and society." 
Says another observer: "I prophesy that a more serious intention and mood will progressively characterize the campus .. . This means, most of all, commitment to the use of one's learning in fruitful, creative, and noble ways." 
"The responsibility of the educated man," says the provost of a state university in New England, "is that he make articulate to himself and to others what he is willing to bet his life on." 
Who will teach them? 
K
NOW THE QUALITY of the teaching that your children can look forward to, and you will know much - about the effectiveness of the education they will receive. Teaching, tomorrow as in the past, is the heart of higher education. 
It is no secret, by now, that college teaching has been on a plateau of crisis in the U.S. for some years. Much of the problem is traceable to money. Salaries paid to college teachers lagged far behind those paid elsewhere in jobs requiring similarly high talents. While real incomes, as well as dollar incomes, climbed for most other groups of Americans, the real incomes of college professors not 
• merely stood still but dropped noticeably. 
The financial pinch became so bad, for some teachers, that despite obvious devotion to their careers and obvious preference for this profession above all others, they had to leave for other jobs. Many bright young people, the sort who ordinarily would be attracted to teaching careers, took one look at the salary scales and decided to make their mark in another field. 
Has the situation improved? 

Will it be better when your children go to college? 
Yes. At the monient, faculty salaries and fringe benefits (on the average) are rising. Since the rise started from an extremely disadvantageous level, however, no one is getting rich in the process. Indeed, on almost every campus the rea/income in every rank of the faculty is still considerably less than it once was. Nor have faculty salary scales, generally, caught up with the national scales in competitive areas such as business and government. 
But the trend is encouraging. If it continues, the financial plight of teachers—and the serious threat to education which it has posed—should be substantially diminished by 1970. 
None of this will happen automatically, of course. For evidence, check the appropriations for higher education made at your state legislature's most recent session. If yours was like a number of recent legislatures, it "econo­mized"—and professorial salaries suffered. The support which has enabled many colleges to correct the most glaring salary deficiencies must continue until the problem is fully solved. After that, it is essential to make sure that 
the quality of our college teaching—a truly crucial element in fashioning the minds and attitudes of your children—is not jeopardized again by a failure to pay its practitioners adequately. 
T
HERE ARE OTHER ANGLES to the question of attracting and retaining a good faculty besides money. • The betterthestudentbody—the more challeng­ing; the more lively its members—the more attractive is the job of teaching it. "Nothing is more certain to make teaching a dreadful task than the feeling that you are dealing with people who have no interest in what you are talking about," says an experienced professor at a small college in the Northwest. 
"An appalling number of the students I have known were bright, tested high on their College Boards, and 
' still lackedflair and drive and persistence," says another professor. "I have concluded that much of the difference between them and the students who are 'alive' must be traceable to their homes, their fathers, their mothers. Parents who themselves take the trouble to be interesting —and interested—seem to send us children who are interesting and interested." 
•
 The better the library and laboratory facilities, the more likely is a college to be able to recruit and keep a good faculty. Even small colleges, devoted strictly to undergraduate studies, arefinding ways to provide their faculty members with opportunities to do independent reading and research. Theyfind it pays in many ways: the faculty teaches better, is more alert to changes in the subject matter, is less likely to leave for other fields. 

•
 The better the public-opinion climate toward teachers in a community, the more likely is a faculty to be strong. Professors may grumble among themselves about all the invitations they receive to speak to women's clubs and 


alumni groups ("When am I supposed tofind the time to check my lecture notes?"), but they take heart from the high regard for their profession which such invitations from the community represent. 
• Part-time consultant jobs are an attraction to good faculty members. (Conversely, one of the principal check­points for many industries seeking new plant sites is. What faculty talent is nearby?) Such jobs provide teachers both with additional income and with enormously useful opportunities to base their classroom teachings on practical, current experience. 
B
UT COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES must do more than hold on to their present good teachers and replace those who retire or resign. Over the next few years many institutions must add to their teaching staffs at a prodigious rate, in order to handle the vastly larger numbers of students who are already forming lines in the admissions ofiice. 
The ability to be a college teacher is not a skill that can be acquired overnight, or in a year or two. A Ph.D. degree takes at least four years to get, after one has earned his bachelor's degree. More often it takes six or seven years, and sometimes 10 to 15. 
In every ten-year period since the turn of the century, as Bernard Berelson of Columbia University has pointed out, the production of doctorates in the U.S. has doubled. But only about 60 per cent of Ph.D.'s today go into academic life, compared with about 80 per cent at the turn of the century. And only 20 per cent wind up teaching undergraduates in liberal arts colleges. 
Holders of lower degrees, therefore, wiU occupy many teaching positions oh tomorrow's college faculties, 
This is not necessarily bad. A teacher's ability is not always defined by the number of degrees he is entitled to 
write after his name. Indeed, said the graduate dean of one great university several years ago, it is high time that "universities have the courage .. . to select men very largely on the quality of work they have done and soft-pedal this matter of degrees." 
I
N SUMMARY, salaries for teachers will be better, larger numbers of able young people will be attracted into the field (but their preparation will take time), and fewer able people will be lured away. In expandingtheir faculties, some colleges and universities will accept more holders of bachelor's and master's degrees than they have been ac­customed to, but this may force them to focus attention on ability rather than to rely as unquestioningly as in the 
past on the magic of a doctor's degree. 
Meanwhile, other developments provide grounds for cautious optimism about the effectiveness of the teaching your children will receive. 
THE TV SCREEN TELEVISION, not long ago found only in the lounges of dormitories and student unions, is now ah accepted teaching tool on many campuses. Its use will grow. "To report on the use of television in teaching," says Arthur 
S. Adams, past president of the American Council on Education, "is like trying to catch a galloping horse." 
For teaching closeup work in dentistry, surgery, and laboratory sciences, closed-circuit TV is unexcelled. The number of students who can gaze into a patient's gaping mouth while a teacher demonstrates how to fill a cavity is limited; when their place is taken by~a TV camera and the students cluster around TV screens, scores can watch —and see more, too. 
Television, at large schools, has the additional virtue of ' extending the effectiveness of a single teacher. Instead of giving the same lecture (replete with the same jokes) three times to students filling the campus's largest hall, a pro­fessor can now give it once—and be seen in as many auditoriums and classrooms as are needed to accommo­date all registrants in his course. Both the professor and the jokes are fresher, as a result. 
How effective is TV? Some carefully controlled studies show that students taught from the fluorescent screen do as well in some types of course (e.g., lectures) as those sitting in the teacher's presence, and sometimes better. But TV standardizes instruction to a degree that is not always desirable. And, reports Henry H. Cassirer of UNESCO, who has analyzed television teaching in the U.S., Canada, Great Britain, France, Italy, Russia, and Japan, students do not want to lose contact with their teachers. They want to be able to ask questions as instruc­tion progresses. Mr. Cassirer found effective, on the other hand, the combination of a central TV lecturer with classroom instructors who prepare students for the lecture and then discuss it with them afterward. 
TEACHING MACHINES HOLDING GREAT PROMISE for the improvement of instruc­tion at all levels of schooling, including college, are programs of learning presented through mechanical self-teaching devices, popularly called "teaching machines." The most widely used machine, invented by Professor Frederick Skinner of Harvard, is a box-like device with 
three windows in its top. When the student turns a crank, an item of information, along with a question about it, appears in the lefthand window (A). The student writes his answer to the question on a paper strip exposed in another window (B). The student turns the crank again— and the correct answer appears at window A. 
Simultaneously, this action moves the student's answer under a transparent shield covering window C, so that the student can see, but not change, what he has written. If the answer is correct, the student turns another crank, causing the tape to be notched; the machine will by-pass this item when the student goes through the series of ques­tions again. Questions are arranged so that each item builds on previous information the machine has given. 
Such self-teaching devices have these advantages: 
•
 Each student can proceed at his own pace, whereas classroom lectures must be paced to the "average" student —too fast for some, too slow for others. "With a ma­chine," comments a University of Rochester psychologist, "the brighter student could go ahead at a very fast pace." •• The machine makes examinations and testing a re­warding and learning experience, rather than a punish­ment. If his answer is correct, the student is rewarded with that knowledge instantly; this reinforces his memory of the right information. If the answer is incorrect, the machine provides the correct answer immediately. In large classes, no teacher can provide such frequent—and indi­vidual^rewards and immediate corrections. 

•
 The machine smooths the ups and downs in the learn­


ing process by removing some external sources of anxie­ties, such as fear of falling behind. 
•. If a student is having difficulty, with a subject, the teacher can check back over his machine tapes and find the exact point at which the student began to go wrong. 
'Corriection of the difficulty can be made with precision, not gropingly as is usually necessary in machineless classes. ­
Not only do the machines give promise of accelerating the learning process; they introduce an individuality to learning which has pre\'iously been unknown. "Where television holds the danger of standardized instruction," said John W. Gardner, president of the Carnegie Corpora­tion of New York, in a report to then-President Eisen­hower, "the self-teaching device can individualize instruc­tion in ways not now possible—and the student is always an active participant." Teaching machines.are being tested, and used, on a number of college campuses and seem certain to figure prominently in the teaching of your children. 
YYill they graduate? 
S
AID AN ADMINISTRATOR at a university in the South not long ago (he was the director of admissions, no less, and he spoke not entirely in jest): "I'm happy I went to college back when 1 did, instead 
of now. Today, the admissions office probably wouldn't 
let me in. If they did, I doubt that I'd last more than a 
semester or two." 

Getting into college is a problem, nowadays. Stajnng there, once in, can be even more difficult. Here are some of the principal reasons why many students fail to finish: 
Academic failure: For one reason or another—not always connected with a lack of aptitude or potential scholastic ability—many students fail to make the grade. Low entrance requirements, permitting students to enter college without sufficient aptitude or previous preparation, also play a big part. In schools where only a high-school diploma is required for admission, drop-outs and failures during the first two years average (nationally) between 60 and 70 per cent. Normally selective admissions procedures usually cut this rate down to between 20 and 40 per cent. Where admissions are based on keen competition, the attrition rate is 10 per cent or less. 
FUTURE OUTLOOK: High schools are tightening their academic standards, insisting upon greater effort by students, and teaching the techniques of note-taking, ef­fective studying, and library use. Such measures will inevitably better the chaiices of students when they reach college. Better testing and counseling programs should help, by guiding less-able students away from institutions where they'll be beyond their depth and into institutions better suited to their abilities and needs. Growing popular acceptance of the two-year college concept will also help, as will the adoption of increasingly selective admissions procedures by four-year colleges and universities. 
Parents can help by encouraging activities designed to find the right academic spot for their children; by recog­
nizing their children's strengths and limitations; by creat­
ing an atmosphere in which children will be encouraged to 
read, to study, to develop curiosity, to accept new ideas. 
Poor motivation: Students drop out of college "not only because they lack ability but because they do not have the motivation for serious study," say persons who have studied the attrition problem. This aspect of students' failure to finish college is attracting attention from edu­cators and administrators both in colleges and in secondary schools. 
FUTURE OUTLOOK: Extensive research is under way to detenm'ne whether motivation can be measured. The "Personal Values Inventory," developed by scholars at Colgate University, is one promising yardstick, providing information about a student's long-range persistence, personal self-control, and deliberateness (as opposed to rashness). Many colleges and universities are participating in the study, in an effort to establish the efficacy of the tests. Thus far, report the Colgate researchers, "the tests have successfully differentiated between over- and under­achievers in every college included in the sample." 
Parents can help by their own attitudes toward scholas­tic achievement and by encouraging their children to develop independence from adults. "This, coupled with the reflected image that a person acquires from his parents—^an image relating to persistence and other traits and values—^may have much to do with his orienta­tion toward academic success," the Colgate investigators say. 
Money: Most parents think they know the cost of send­ing a child to college. But, a recent survey shows, rela­tively few of them actually do. The average parent, the survey disclosed, underestimates college costs by roughly 40 per cent. In such a situation, parental savings for col­lege purposes often run out quickly—and, unless the student can fill the gap with scholarship aid, a loan, or earnings from part-time employment, he drops out. 
FtrruRE OUTLOOK: A surprisingly high proportion of financial dropouts are children of middle-income, not low-income, families. If parents would inform themselves fully about current college costs—and reinform them­selves periodically, since prices tend to go up—a substan­tial part of this problem could be solved in the future by realistic family savings programs. 
Other probabilities: growing federal and state (as well as private) scholarship programs; growing private and governmental loan programs. 
Jobs: Some students, anxious to strike out on their own, are lured from college by jobs requiring little skill but offering attractive starting salaries. Many such students may have hesitated about going to college in the first place and drop out at the first opportunity. 
FUTURE OUTLOOK: The lure of jobs will always tempt some students, but awareness of the value of completing college—for lifelong financial gain, if for no other reason —is increasing. 
Emotional problems: Some students find themselves unable to adjust to college life and drop out as a result Often such problems begin when a student chooses a col­lege that's "wrong" for him. It may accord him too much or too little freedom; its pace may be too swift for him, resulting in frustration, or too slow, resulting in boredom; it may be "too social" or "not social enough." 
FUTURE OUTLOOK: With expanding and more skillful guidance counseling and psychological testing, more students can expect to be steered to the "right" college environment. This won't entirely eliminate the emotional-maladjustment problem, but it should ease it substantially. 
Marriage: Many students marry while still in college but fully expect to continue their education. A number do go on (sometimes wives withdraw from college to earn money to pay their husbands' educational expenses). Others have children before graduating and must drop out of college in order to support their-family. 
FUTURE OUTLOOK: The trend toward early marriage shows no signs of abating. Large numbers of parents openly or tacitly encourage children to go steady and to marry at an early age. More and more colleges are provid­ing living quarters for married undergraduate students. Some even have day-care facilities for students' young children. Attitudes and customs in their "peer groups" will continue to influence young people on the question of marrying early; in some groups, it's frowned upon; in others, it's the thing to do. 
C
OLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES are deeply interested in finding solutions to the attrition problem in all its aspects. Today, at many institutions, enrollment resembles a pyramid: the freshman class, at the bottom, is big; the sophomore class is smaller, the junior class still smaller, and the senior class a mere fraction of the fresh­man group. Such pyramids are wasteful, expensive, inef­ficient. They represent hundreds, sometimes thousands, of personal tragedies: young people who didn't make it. 
The goal of the colleges is to change the pyramid into a straight-sided figure, with as many people graduating as enter the freshman class. In the college of tomorrow, the sides will not yet have attained the perfect vertical, but—as a result of improved placement, admissions, and aca­demic practices—they should slope considerably less than tbey do now. 
YYhat will college have done for them? 
r
' YOUR CHILDREN are like about 33 per cent of today's college graduates, they will not end their formal educa­tion when they get their bachelor's degrees. On they'll go—to graduate school, to a professional school, or to an advanced technological institution. There are good, reasons for their continuing: • In four years, nowadays, one can only begin to scratch the surface of the body of knowledge in his specialty. To teach, or to hold down a high-ranking job in industry or government, graduate study is becoming more and more useful and necessary. • Automation, in addition to eliminating jobs in un­skilled categories, will have an increasingly strong effect on persons holding jobs in middle management and middle technology. Competition for survival will be intense. Many students will decide that one way of competing advantageously is to take as much formal education be­yond the baccalaureate as they can get. • One way in which women can compete successfully with men for high-level positions is to be equipped with a graduate degree when they enter the job market. • Students heading for school-teaching careers will 
, increasingly be urged to concentrate on substantive studies in their undergraduate years and to take methodology courses in a postgraduate schooling period. The same will be true in many other fields. 
•
 Shortages are developing in some professions, e.g., medicine. Intensive efforts will be made to woo more top undergraduates into professional schools, and opportuni­ties in short-supplied professions will become increasingly attractive. 

•
 "Skills," predicts a Presidential committee, "may be­come obsolete in our fast-moving industrial society, Sound education provides a basis for adjustment to constant and abrupt change—a base on which new skills may be built." The moral will not be lost on tomorrow's students. 


In addition to having such practical motives, tomor­row's students will be influenced by a growing tendency to expose them to graduate-level work while they are still undergraduates. Independent study will give them a taste of the intellectual satisfaction to be derived from learning on their own; Graduate-style seminars, with their stimulat­ing give-and-take of fact and opinion, will exert a strong appeal. As a result, for able students the distinction be­tween undergraduate and graduate work will become blurred and meaningless. Instead of arbitrary insistence upon learning in two-year or four-year units, there will be more attention paid to the length of time a student requires—and desires—to immerse himself in the specialty that interests him. 
A ND EVEN with graduate or professional study, educa-A\ tion is not likely to end for your children. 
•^ -^ Administrators in the field of adult education— or, more accurately, "continuing education"—expect that within a decade the number of students under their wing will exceed the number of undergraduates in American colleges and universities. 
"Continuing education," says Paul A. McGhee, dean of New York University's Division of General Education (where annually some 17,000 persons enroll in around 1,200 non-credit courses) "is primarily the education of the already educated." The more education you have, the more you are likely to want. Since more and more people will go to college, it follows that more and more people will seek knowledge throughout their lives. 
We are, say adult-education leaders, departing from the old notion that one works to live. In this day of automa­tion and urbanization, a new concept is emerging: "time," not "work," is the paramount factor in people's lives. Leisure takes on a new meaning: along with golf, boating. 
and partying, it now includes study. And he who forsakes 
gardening for studying is less and less likely to be regarded 
as the neighborhood oddball. 

Certain to vanish are the last vestiges of the stigma that 
has long attached to "night school." Although the con­
cept of night school as a place for educating only the il­
literate has changed, many who have studied at night— 
either for credit or for fun and intellectual stimulation— 
have felt out of step, somehow. But such views are 
obsolescent and soon will be obsolete. 

Thus far, American colleges and universities—with notable exceptions—^have not led the way in providing continuing education for their alumni. Most alumni have been forced to rely on local boards of education and other civic and social groups to provide lectures, classes, discus­sion groups. These have been inadequate, and institutions of higher education can be expected to assume un­precedented roles in the continuing-education field. 
Alumni and alumnae are certain to demand that they take such leadership. Wrote Clarence B. Randall in Tlie New York Times Magazine: "At institution after institu­tion there has come into being an organized and articulate group of devoted graduates who earnestly believe... that the college still has much to offer them." 
When colleges and universities respond on a large scale to the growing demand for continuing education, the variety of courses is likely to be enormous. Already, in institutions where continuing education is an accepted role, the range is from space technology to existentialism to funeral direction. (When the University of California offered non-credit courses in thefirst-named subject to engineers and physicists, the combined enrollment reached 4,643.) "From the world of astronauts, to the highest of ivory towers, to six feet under," is how one wag has described the phenomenon. 
S
OME OTHER LIKELY FEATURES of your children, after they are graduated from tomorrow's colleges: • They'll have considerably more political sophisti­cation than did the average person who marched up to get a diploma in their parents' day. Political parties now have active student groups on many campuses and publish material beamed specifically at undergraduates. Student-government organizations are developing sophisticated procedures. Nonpartisan as well as partisan groups, oper­ating on a national scale, are fanning student interest in current political affairs. • They'll have an international orientation that many of their parents lacked when they left the campuses. The presence of more foreign students in their classes, the emphasis on courses dealing with global affairs, the front pages of their daily newspapers will all contribute to this change. They willfind their international outlook useful: a recent government report predicts that "25 years from now, one college graduate in four willfind at least part of his career abroad in such places as Rio de Janeiro, Dakar, Beirut, Leopoldville, Sydney, Melbourne, or Toronto." 
•
 They'll have an awareness of unanswered questions, to an extent that their parents probably did not have. Principles that once were regarded (and taught) as in­controvertible fact are now regarded (and taught) as sub­ject to constant alteration, thanks to the frequent toppling of long-held ideas in today's explosive sciences and technologies. Says one observer: "My student generation, if it looked at the world, didn't know it was 'loaded'. Today's student has no such ignorance." 

•
 They'll possess a broad-based liberal education, but in their jobs many of them are likely to specialize more narrowly than did their elders. "It is a rare bird today who knows all about contemporary physics and all about modem mathematics," said one of the world's most dis­tinguished scientists not long ago, "and if he exists, I 


haven't found him. Because of the rapid growth of science it has become impossible for one man to master any large part of it; therefore, we have the necessity of specializa­tion." 
• Your daughters are likely to be impatient with the prospect of devoting their lives solely to unskilled labor as housewives. Not only will more of tomorrow's women graduates embark upon careers when they receive their diplomas, but more of them will keep up their contacts with vocational interests even during their period of child­rearing. And even before the children are grown, more of them will return to the working force, either as paid employees or as highly skilled Volunteers; 
D
EPENDING UPON THEIR OWN otn^LOOK, parents of I tomorrow's graduates willfind some of the pros­pects good, some of them deplorable. In essence, however, the likely trends of tomorrow are only continua­tions of trends that are clearly established today, and moving inexorably. 
will pay—and how? 
HLL vou BE ABLE to afford a college education for your children? The tuition? The travel ex­
» » n

pense? The room rent? The board? 
In addition: 

Will you be able to pay considerably more than is 
written on the price-tags for these items? 

The stark truth is that you—or somebody—must pay, 
if your children are to go to college and get an education 
as good as the education you received. 

H
ERE is where colleges and universities get their money: 
From taxes paid to governments at all levels: 
city, state, and federal. Governments now appropriate an 
estimated S2.9 billion in support of higher education 
every year. By 1970 government support will have grown 
• to roughly S4 billion. 

From private gifts and grants. These now provide nearly SI billion annually. By 1970 they must provide about S2.019 billion. Here is where this money is likely to come from: 
Alumni $ 505,000,000(25%) Non-alumni individuals 505,000,000 (25%) Business corporations 505,000,000 (25%) Foundations 262,000,000 (13%) Religious denominations 242,000,000 (12%) 
Total voluntary support, 1970.. $2,019,000,000 
From endowment earnings. These now provide around 
S210 million a year. By 1970 endowment will produce 
around S333 million a year. 

From tuition and fees. These now provide around SI.2 
billion (about 21 per cent of college and university funds). 
By 1970 they must produce about S2.1 billion (about 23.5 
per cent of all funds). 

From other sources. Miscellaneous income now provides 
around S410 million annually. By 1970 the figure is ex­
pected to be around S585 million. 

These estimates, made by the independent Council for 
Financial Aid to Education*, are based on the "best 
available" estimates of the expected growth in enroll­
ment in America's colleges and universities: from slightly 
less than 4 million this year to about 6.4 million in the 
*To whose research staff the editors are indebted for most of the financial projections cited in this section of their report. CFAE statisticians, using and comparing three methods of projection, built their estimates on available hard figures.and carefully reasoned assumptions about the future. 
academic year 1969-70. The total income that the colleges and universities will require in 1970 to handle this enroll­ment will be on the order of S9 billion—compared with the S5.6 billion that they received and spent in 1959-60. 
WHO PAYS? VIRTUALLY EVERY SOURCE of funds, of course—however it is labeled—boils down to you. Some of the money, you pay directly: tuition, fees, gifts to the colleges and univer­sities that you support. Other funds pass, in a sense, through channels—^your church, the several levels of government to which you pay taxes, the business corpora­tions with which you deal or in-which you own stock. But, in the last analysis, individual persons are the source of them all. Hence, if you wished to reduce your support of higher education, you could do so. Conversely (as is presumably the case with most enlightened parents and with most col­lege alumni and alumnae), if you wished to increase it, you could do that, also—with your vote and your check­book. As is clearly evident in the figures above, it is es­sential that you substantially increase both your direct and your indirect support of higher education between now and 1970, if tomorrow's colleges and universities are to give your children the education that you would wish for them. 
THE MONEY YOU'LL NEED SINCE IT REQUIRES long-range planning and long-range voluntary saving, for most famiUes the most difficult part of financing their children's education is paying the direct costs: tuition, fees, room, board, travel expenses. 
These costs vary widely from institution to institution. At government-subsidized colleges and universities, for example, tuition fees for state residents may be non­
existent or quite low. At community colleges, located 
within commuting distance of their students' homes, room 
and board expenses may consist only of what parents are 
already paying for housing and food. At independent 
(non-governmental) colleges and universities, the costs 
may be considerably higher. 

In 1960-61, here is what the average male student 
spent at the average, institution of higher education, in­
cluding junior colleges, in each of the two categories 
(public and private): 

Public Private Institutions Institutions 
Tuition $179 $ 676 
Board 383 404 
Room 187 216 Total $749 $1,296 
These, of course, are "hard-core" costs only, repre­
senting only part of the expense. The average annual 
bill for an unmarried student is around Sl,550. This con­
servative figure, provided by the Survey Research Center 
at the University of Michigan for the U.S. Office of Edu­
cation, does not include such items as clothing. And, as 
we have attempted to stress by italicizing the word "aver­
age" wherever it appears, the bill can be considerably 
higher, as well as somewhat lower. At a private college 
for women (which is likely to get relatively little money 
from other sources and must therefore depend heavily 
upon tuition income) the hard-core costs alone may now 
run as high as S2,600 per year. 

Every parent must remember that costs will inevitably 
rise, not fall, in the years ahead. In 1970, according to 
one estimate, the cost of four years at the average state 
university will be S5,800; at the average private college, 
511,684. 

HOW TO AFFORD IT? SUCH SUMS represent a healthy part of most families' resources. Hard-core costs alone equal, at public institu­tions, about 13 per cent of the average American family's anniial income; at private institutions, about 23 per cent of average annual income. How do families afford it? How can you afford it? Here is how the typical family pays the current average bill ofSl,550 per year: 
Parents contribute.; $950 Scholarships defray 130 The student earns 360 
.Other sources yield 110 
Nearly haff of all parents begin saving money for their 
children's college education well before their children are ready to enroll. Fourteen per cent report that they borrow . money to help meet college costs. Some 27 per cent take on extra work, to earn more money. One in five mothers 
does additional vvork in order to help out. 
Financing the education of one's children is obviously, 
•) 

for many families, a scramble—a piecing-together of 
many sources of funds. 
Is such scrambling necessary? The question can be answered only on a family-by-family basis. But these generalizations do seem valid: 
•
 Many parents fhink they are putting aside enough money to pay most of the costs of sending their children to college. But most parents seriously underestimate what these costs will be. The only solution: Keep posted, by checking college costs periodically. What was true of college costs yesterday (and even of the figures in this report, as nearly current as they are) is not necessarily true of college costs today; It will be even less true of college costs tomorrow. 

•
 If they knew what college costs really were, and what they are likely to be in the years when their children are likely to enroll, many parents could save enough money. They would start saving earlier and more persistently. They would gear their family budgets to the need. They would revise their savings programs from time to time, as they obtained new information about cost changes. 

•
 Many parents count on scholarships to pay their chil­dren's way. For upper-middle-income families, this reli­ance can be disastrous. By far the greatest number of scholarships are now awarded on the basis of financial need, largely determined by level of family income. (Col­leges and other scholarship sources are seriously con­cerned about the fact, indicated by several studies, that at least 100,000 of the country's high-school graduates each year are unable to attend college, primarily for financial reasons.) Upper-middle-income families are among those most seriously affected by the sudden reali­zation that they have failed to save enough for their children's education. 

•
 Loan programs make sense. Since going to college sometimes costs as much as buying a house (which most famiUes finance through long-term borrowing), long-term 


repayment of college costs, by students or their parents, strikes many people as highly logical. 
Loans can be obtained from government and from private bankers. Just last spring, the most ambitious private loan program yet developed was put into opera­tion: United Student Aid Funds, Inc., is the backer, with headquarters at 420 Lexington Avenue, New York 17, 
N. Y. It is raising sufficient capital to underwrite a reserve fund to endorse S500 million worth of long-term, low-interest bank loans to students. Affiliated state com­mittees, established by citizen groups, will act as the direct contact agencies for students. 
In the 1957-58 academic year, loans for educational purposes totaled only SI 15 million. Last year they totaled an estimated S430 million. By comparison, scholarships from all sources last year amounted to only S160 million. 
IS THE COST TOO HIGH? HIGH AS THEY SEEM, tuitioH rates are bargains, in this sense: They do not begin to pay the cost of providing a college education. 
On the national average, colleges and universities must receive between three and four additional dollars for every one dollar that they collect from students, in order to provide their services. At public institutions, the ratio of non-tuition money to tuition money is greater than the average: the states typically spend more than S700 for every student enrolled. 
Even the gross cost of higher education is low, when put in perspective. In terms of America's total production of goods and services, the proportion of the gross na­tional product spent for higher education is only 1.3 per cent, accoixling to government statistics. 
To put salaries and physical plant on a sound footing, colleges must spend more money, in relation to the gross national product, than they have been spending in the pastJ Before they can spend it, they must get it. From what sources? 
Using the current and the 1970figures that were cited earher, tuition will probably have to carry, on the aver­age, about 2 per cent more of the share of total educa­tional costs than it now carries. Governmental support, although increasing by about a billion dollars, will actu­ally carry about 7 per cent less of the total cost than it now does. Endowment income's share will remain about the same as at present. Revenues in the category of "other sources" can be expected to decline by about .8 per cent, in terms of their share of the total load. Private gifts and grants—from alumni, non-alumni individuals, businesses and unions, philanthropic foundations, and religious de­nominations—must carry about 6 per cent more of the total cost in 1970, if higher education is not to founder. 
Alumnae and alumni, to whom colleges and universi­ties must look for an estimated 25 per cent (S505 million) of such gifts: please note. 
CAN COLLEGES BE MORE EFFICIENT? 
INDUSTRIAL COST ACCOUNTANTS^and,.not infrequently, other business men—sometimes tear their hair over the "inefficiencies" they see in higher education. Physical facilities—classrooms, for example—are in use for only part of the 24-hour day, and sometimes they stand idle for three months in summertime. Teachers "work"— i.e., actually stand in the front of their classes—for only a fraction of industry's 40-hour week. (The hours devoted to preparation and research, without which a teacher would soon become a purveyor of dangerously outdated misinformation, don't show on formal teaching schedules and are thus sometimes overlooked by persons making a judgment in terms of business efficiency.) Some courses are given for only a handful of students. (What a waste 
of space and personnel, some cost analysts say.) 
A few of these "inefficiencies" are capable of being curbed, at least partially. The use of physical facilities is being increased at some institutions through the provision of night lectures and lab courses. Summer schools and year-round schedules are raising the rate of plant utiliza­tion. But not all schools are so situated that they can avail themselves of even these economies. 
The president of the Rochester (N.Y.) Chamber of Commerce observed not long ago: 
"The heart of the matter is simply this:-To a great extent, the very thing which is often referred to as the 'inefficient' or 'unbusinesslike' phase of a liberal arts college's operation is really but an accurate reflection of its true essential nature . . . [American business and industry] have to understand that much of liberal edu­cation which is urgently worth saving cannot be justified on a dollars-and-cents basis." . 
In short, although educators have as much of an obli­gation as anyone else to use money wisely, you just can't run a college like a railroad. Your children would be cheated, if anybody tried. 
i-v ••::•• 
YOUR CHILDREN go to college, what will college be like? Their college will, iii short, be ready for theni. Its teaching staff ^yill be compe­tent and complete. Its courses will be good and, as you would wish them to,be, demanding of the best talents 
.that your children possess. Its physical facilities will sur­pass those you knew in your-college years.-The-oppor­tunities it will offer your children will be limitless! 
V^lf:.: • ••••'•'•' ••; ;• ' 
'That is the important word. ,' ' . 
, Between now and 1970 (a date that the editors arbi­trarily selected for most of .their projections; although the date for your children may come sooner or it-may come later),.much must be done to-build the strength of America's colleges and universities. For, between now 
'and 1970, they win be carrying an increasingly heavy . loa,d in behalf of the nation. , , 
.They will need more money—considerably more,than is now available" to them—and they will need-to obtain much of it from you. , '!" ­
.They, wpr need, as always, the understanding by thoughtful portions, of- the citizeii'ry (particiilarly-their own aiiimni and aliinmae) of the subtleties, the sensitive­ness,] the'.fine; .balances; ofj freedom and responsibility without which the mechanism of higher education cannot functipn.. '^ • :',/-' 
• i They wiir need,,if they are to be of highest service to yoiir; children, the best aid-which you are'capable of 
, giving as a pairent: the preparation of your children to value things of the mind, to knowithe joy of meeting and overcoming obstacles,~and to develop their own personal i^deperidence^/ ; ' ,-^-y ' v 
Yqiir children are members of the most promising Ainericah generation, (Every new generation, properly, is so regarded:).To help them realize their promise is a job to which the colleges and universities are dedicated. It is their supreme function. It is the job to which you, as parent,! are aiso-declicated. it.is jioiir supreme function. ; With- your efforts and the efforts of the college of to­morrow, your children's future can' be brilliant. If. 
The report'on this and the preceding IS pages.is the.'product of a cooperative endeavor in which scores of 
'The College: 

schools, colleges, and universities are taking partMt was (wepared under the dirccuon of the group listed below, who form EDrtpRiAL PROJECTS FOR EDUCATi6N,'a nori-inofit organization associated with ^the Ameri­of Tomorrow" can Alumni Couiicil. Copyrighti© 1962 by Editorial Projects' for Education^ Inc., 1707 N Street. N.W., ; Washington 6, D. C All rights reserved; no part oflhis supplement may bc.reproduced without express piermissioii,of the editors. Printed in U.S.A. 
\ JAMES E. ARMSTRONG . . DENTONBEAI, , "^ DAVIDA, BURK '" i '. - DANIEI, si ENDStEY ^Ihe University of Notre Dame Carnegie Institute of Technology The'.VimersilyofOkkihbma -J , Stanford University ' 
. RAhlDOLPH L. FORT MARALYN 6 . GILLESPIE- ,• L. FlLANkuN HEALD "'-^ i .••, ' :. ' CHARLES M.'HEIMICEN , . ''J 'I J Emory University Swarthmore College: ' -Tlie Uiiiyersity of New HampsUre'•; American AlumiuCpiaicil /WALDO C.M. JOHNSTON 
JEAN D. LINEHAN -' .V JOHN W. PA-TON,^^ 'r, ^ j ROBERTLI'PAYTON . ' FRANCES PROVENCE -,^ Yale University American Alumni Coiaicil 
fVesleyan University ,. , WasUngton University -Baylor.University . 
• ROBERT M. RHODES , STANLEY SAPLIN -VERNE A; STADTMAN , -FRANK J.,.TATE , The University of Pennsylvania -New York University The University of Catiforkia • ;7Se Ohio State Umversity 
CHARLES E. \VIDMAYER ' REBA WILCOXON^"^.:/ • RONALOUi WPUC^ A' • . ELIZABETH BOND WOOD ' Dartmouth College TheUriiversity of Arkansas:. The Johns HopkinSiUniversity ' ; Sweet Briar.Cottege: 
,.i . '•' CHESLEY WORTHINGTDN • • • OORBINGWALTNEYI ' •: : . Brown University'. ,\ • ) •: < Eaditire. Editor'i. 
.1 .,.^. -.-iji; :-..-/^' 
"(^.•••^-: 

• Notre Dame Image 
Continued from page 32 

As an added personal observation, I prefer to have a blend of the genius and the long-hair and the egghead with the normal and the common-sense, on the campus, so that the benefits and handicaps of each become a matter of acquaintance and analysis before they 
L meet in the more rigid and prejudiced 
T^ areas of adult differences. There are other areas of discussion. Is Notre Dame less religious than when Father O'Hara (the late Cardinal) was prefect of religion? The target of that era was the practicing Catholic, and Notre Dame graduates stood out in later life as pillars of practicing Cath­olicity. Today's students not only have facilities for the practice of their Faith which exceed those of any previous era, 
" but their religious life is augmented by the teaching and the acdvity which prepares them for the increasing social intensity of Catholic lay action and apologetics. So the religious image too has altered with the times, but without essential change, certainly without essential loss. 
Conclusion 
The conclusion I have drawn is 

^ simply this — when we hold the mirror up to nature, in this case Notre Dame, make sure it is not a fun-house mirror, which gives us a distorted reflection. 
Actually, the true secondar)' image of Notre Dame is a great and growing image with comple.\ but constructive sides. It will never overshadow the primary golden image, but it will con­tinue to grow and we should let our understanding match this growth. 
The traditional Notre Dame is here: die athletic Notre Dame is here; the welcome for qualified applicants is here; the personal Notre Dame is here; the intellectual Notre Dame is here; and the religious Notre Dame is here. 
If we sec that this image is not solely the one we prefer, or if we see that die image has not really lost the one we want, then we will be on our way back to what really made Notre Dame great through all the years, the ability of the University to be all of these great things, in an outstanding way, with strength supplementing strength, with interest complementing interest. 
The real spirit of Notre Dame is an appreciation of the whole purpose and spirit of Notre Dame. It is that com­plete image under which the admin­istrator understands faculty, students understand administration, alumni understand campus problems, athletes are inspired by study and students are inspired by athledcs. 
I believe that our spirit has been temporarily fragmented to the extent we have allowed our changing image of Notre Dame to be fragmented. But these are only surface fragmentations. Underneath, I have complete faith and confidence that the unity of image and the unity of spirit remain. And when we remove the surface confusions that rapid growth and transition have pro­duced, we will find the true secondary image, bigger and better. We will find increased intellectual stature, renewed athletic success, stronger spiritual force, an even more intense fraternal spirit among students and alumni. 
As you approach Notre Dame today, from almost any direction, you may be impressed by the outer circle of magnificent new buildings. But as you come closer to its heart, you are con­scious of the graceful golden figure on the Dome, and you find yourself stand­ing between Sacred Heart Church, Washington Hall, and the still imf)osing Main Building — conscious that Notre Dame, in spite of its growth, has re­tained its central strengths. 
This is what I believe. This is what the Alumni Association program works for. This is what I am sure everyone on the campus desires. This, I am sure, is the explanation for the success of the $18,000,000 Challenge Program. Constructive effort, continuing faith will produce success. .Adverse criticism, insisting on the exclusion of this total recognition, and pushing the various panic buttons, will only delay Notre Dame's destiny. Now is the time for Notre Dame men to bring to the re­stored and multiple image of the Uni­versity all the vigor and co-operation and distinction that marked its earlier years. This is our first and greatest responsibility. Other responsibilities will grow and flourish as we discharge this one. 

• 
NEW YORK — Universal Notre Dame Night at the Park Lane Hotel in May featured (I.-r.): James C MacDevitt, recipient 
of the Man of the Year award; A.V. Lesmez, retiring president of the Notre Dame Club of New York; Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University; Hon. Nelson A. Rockefeller, governor of the State of New York; Edward B. Fitzpatrick, Jr., newly elected president of the New York Club; and William V. Cuddy, chairman of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 49 

EUGENE T. CRALLEY, '55, on the death of his father. PETER J., '35 and COLIN T. SUTHERLAND, '61, on the death of their father. PAUL A. RENSTROM, '36, on the death of his 
Classes 
ENGAGEMENTS 

MK . William R. Wilmcring and HENRY L. DAHM, JR., '42. Miss Kathcrine Kennc>- and PETER C. GREEN, '51. Miss Kathleen -Anne Lobo and JOHN B. M.A­GILL, JR., '54. Miss Joan Martha Cillcn and BERNARD J. TRACEY, '53. Mbs Mars-A. Longarzo and DONALD H. PIZ­ZUTELLO, '56. Miss Ma^^• Margaret Scanlon and LOUIS C. BOSCO, '38. Miss Gloria J. Banolozzi and LAWRENCE A. ELEUTERI, '58. Miss Sophia .Adclc Roberts and JAMES A. GOETHALS, '38. Miss Karen Celeste Wilke and TLMOTHi' P. GALVIN, II, '39. Miss Sharon Ann Biebuvck and ROBERT J. YOUNG, '59. Miss Barbara Ann .Azzaretti and ANTHONY P. BORRELLO, 'GO. Miss Bevcrlv Jean Si.cenev and PFC. WILLIAM 
J. CLANCY, JR., '60. Miss Susan Ellen Laivrencc and LEOX J. KINDT, '60. Miss Marilyn Miller and DAVID F. MALONE, '60. Miss Marjoric Ann Taglientc and HERBERT R. MOELLER, '60. Miss Barbara Joan Millu-ater and GER.ALD M. 0'.\URA, '60. Miss Maureen Patricia Doughertv and JAMES P. RUSSO.\LANO, '60. Miss Patricia A. Micliael and RICHARD W. BALLOT, '61. Miss Lynda Helen Da«s and RICHARD M. B.\RRETT, '61. Miss Diane Mrginta Dickcrson and MICH.\EL D. BIRD, '61. 
Miss Carol Amalelli and JOHN F. JULI.ANO, '61. 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Barbara Somers and J.AMES J. FITZSIM­MONS, JR., '50. Jersey City. New Jersey, May 19. Miss Joan Sutton and RONALD P. MEALEY, '54, Ridgcu-ood, New- Jersc\', February' 24. 
Miss Helen-Maric O'.Veill and WILLIAM J. STOUTENBURGH, JR., '55, Orange, New Jerscv, April 28. 
Miss Marie Leonie Marzo and DR. RICHARD JAMES LYNCH, '56, Port Washington, L.I., Nc>>­York, May 19. 
Miss Helen Strauss and JOHN J. PHELAN, '36, St. Louis, Missouri, February* 13. Miss Helen M. Smith and CHARLES H. SI.MP­SON, *56, Harrington Park, New Jersey. Miss Virginia Lynn Windhorst and RONALD W. HEINZ, '57, Peoria, Illinois, Februar\- 24. 
Miss Eleanor Campbell and LT. RICHARD S. THOMAS, USN, '58, San Antonio, Tt-cas, Feb­ruary 14. 
Miss Mary Ann Nabiclit and WILLIAM S. BOW­MAN, '60, South Bend, Ind., June 16. Miss Colleen Plunkctt and JOSEPH W. DORRY­COTT, JR., '60, Notre Dame, Ind., June 30. Miss Mary Judith Robreclit and LT. THO.MAS 
J. .McCAREY, '60, Short HilU, New Jersey, Mardi 3. Miss Glenda Jane Norris and ENS. JAMES H. TANSEY, '60, Washington, D.C.. March 17. 
Miss Mayte Elizabeth Goodell and JOSEPH JAMES MARTINO, '61, Garden Citj-, L.I., New-York, May 26. 
Miss Irene Elizabeth Sarich and ENS. EUGENE 
W. O'NEILL, JR., '61, Leonia, New Jersey, Feb­ruar>- 10. 
Miss Charlene Sue Reid and THEODORE £ . SARPHIE, '61, South Bend, Ind., June 30. 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mis. JOHN CAREY, '39, a daughter, Man- Michclc, Januarv-, I9G2. Mr. and .Mrs. C JA.MES PARIS, '43, a son, Patrick Kimo, April 14, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. GERALD J. CORRIGAN, '49, a daughter. Donna Marie, Mav 15, 1962. .Mr. and Mrs. THO.MAS S. RIORDAN, '30, a son, Dav-id Joseph, Mav 7, 1962. Mr. and -Mrs. EDWARD J. CONWAY, '53, a daughter, Mary Ann Patricia, Marcli 31, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH D. MADIGAN, JR., '54. a son, John Emmett, Mav 8, 1962. .Sir. and Mrs. JOHN F. SAND, JR., '54, a son, Stephen Joseph, April 1. 1962. Mr. and Mrs. TIPTON N. P.ATTON, JR., '55, a daughter. Mars- Brigid, Marcll 3, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD DENIS BERRY, '56, a son, Patrick. April 7, 1962. Capt. and Mrs. THO.MAS C. BLUBAUGH, '56, a daughter, Midicllc Marie, April 4, 1962. -Mr. and Mrs. WILLIA.M H. STOTZER, '56, a son, William George, November 5, 1961. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES F. V.ANDEGRIFT, '56, a daughter, Linda Ann. March 28, 1962. Mr. and -Mrs. ROBERT W. BOGG, '57, a daughter, Karen Marie. March 21, 1962. . -Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES L. GRACE, '57, a daughter, Kathleen Ann, Januarv 30. 1962. Mr. and .Mrs. ROBERT J. FORSBERG, '58, a son, Jon Carl, Marcli 10, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD G. LYONS, '38, a daughter, Jean Marie, April 22, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. THO.MAS P. MOORE, '58, a daughter, Mar>- Elizabeth, April 6, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. MURPHY, '39, a son, Robert E., Jr., March 13, 1962. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD C. BENKENDORF, JR., '60, a daughter, Marv Carol, Februarv 7, 1962. 
Lt. and Mrs. EDWARD F. KNESS, '60, a son, Shawn Timolhv, February- 26, 1962. -Mr. and Mrs. RONALD COMO, '62, a daughter, Melanie Pcrri Roselle, Februarj- 24, 1962. 
SYMPATHY 
AUGUST VON BOECKLIN, '34, on the death of his mother. ELI SHAHEEN, '33. on the death of his mother. May 13, 1962. JOHN PARISH, '36. on the death of his father, April 26, 1962. EDMUND F. GOLDSMITH, '37, on the death of his father, ^farch 10, 1962. PHILIP J. MALONEY, '39, on the death of his mother, March 18. 1962. FRANK J. GILLIGAN, '45, on the death of lib wife, Marcli 31, 1962. JOSEPH F. ACKERMAN, '47, on the death of his father. 
Z. P. CZAROBSKI, '48, on the death of his mother. May II, 1962. THOMAS F. HEALY, JR., '49, on the death of his father. REV. THOMAS F. McNALLY, C.S.C., '49, on the death of his father. May 13, 1962. ROBERT L. PFEIL, *49, on the death of Ills father, October 18, 1960. RONALD E. RAMIREZ, '30, on the death of his father. M.AURICE F. NOONAN, '51, on the death of his father. JOSEPH S. BOHXING, "52, on the death of his mother, January 7, 1962. JOHN D., '53 and CHARLES MANIX, '61, on the death of their father, March 5, 1962. JOHN A. VUONO, '53, on the death of his father, Januar>- 22, 1962. WILLIAM T., JR., '54 and JAMES B. CARSON, '56 on the death of their father. May 7, 1962. 
PETER M. KELLY, '54, on the death of his father. 
mother, Marcli 23, 1962. ROBERT J. PLEUS, JR., '37, on the death of hU mother, February 21, 1962. FRANK E. O'BRIEN, '58, on the death of his father. JERRY P. ROE.MER, '60, on the death of his father, Februar>- 21, 1962. TIMOTHY J. McALOON, '61, on the death of his father. 
DEATHS 
RAYMOND J. BURNS, '06, of I'Utsburgli, IVnn­

syU-ania, died in 1959 according to mail rciurncd 
to the Alumni Oflicc. No details. 
FRANK H. VOGEL, '06, died Marcli 20, 1962, 

in Columbus, Ohio. Mr. Vogcl, a pioneer in the 
vending machine industry, was president and owner 
of the Columbus Vending Co. He is sumved by 
his wife, six sons and a daughter. 
VARNUM A. PARISH, '08, died April 26, 1962 

in Momencc, Illinois, according to information re­
ceived in the Alumni Office. He is surx'ived by a 
son. 
ALBERT L. METCALF, '11, died in Chicago, 

Illinois, according to mail returned to the Alumni 
Office. No details. 
REV. WILLIAM J. FINN, C.S.P., LLD '14, 

died in New York City according to information 
received in the Alumni Office. No details. 
SI.MON R. RUDOLPH, *17, died March 19, 

1962 in .\kron, Ohio. At the time of Iiis death Mr. 
Rudolph xfas sales representative of tlic A. M. 
Bycrs Co. of Pittsburgh. He had formerly bct-n 
associated with the DuKane Coffee Co. of Pitts­
burgh, Hamlin Metal Products Co. and the Sun 
Rubber Co. of Barberton. Sur\'ivors include his 
wife, a son, three dauqhters and a brother. 
JOSEPH A. CR.AVEN, '18, attorney for the 

Arclidiocesc of Denver since 1931, died May 8. 
1962. Mr. Craven was a member of the Board of 
directors of the Colorado Blue Cross, served on the 
budget committee of the Community Chest and was 
a member of the finance committee of the Denver 
Area Welfare council. He is sur\'ived by his wife 
and four children. 
DR. KEVIN E. CURRAN, '23, died April 9. 

1962 in Kansas City, Missouri, according to word 
received in the Alumni Office. He is sur\'ived by 
a brother. 
HAAVEL A. GRIN.AGER. '23, of Walker, Min­nesota, died March 26, 1962, according to word received from his daughter. His wife died March 9, 1962. 
THOM.\S J. LIEB, '23, '26, of Los Angeles. California, died April 30, 1962. Mr. Lieb was a former head football coach at Loyola of Los An­geles and the University of Florida. He was a star tackle at Notre Dame in 1920, '21 and '22. Na­tional collegiate discus champion in 1924, he placed third for the U.S. in the Paris Olympics that year. Sur%'iving are his widow, a son, a daughter, live brothers and two sisters. 
JOSEPH J. HE.MPHLLVG, '26, '29, of South Bend, Indiana, died March 16, 1962. A South Bend attorney for thirty years, Mr. Hemphling was a former president of the St. Joseph County Bar Assn. He is surx'ived by his wife, a son and two daughters. 
URBAN A. SIMON, '26, of Las Vegas, Ne\-ada. died July 2, 1961, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. His wife sur\^ves. 
JOHN O. TUOHY, '26, of Oak Park, Illinois, died May 10, 1962. He is sur\*ived by his wife. 
EDWARD MORIARTY, '27, died in Ann Arbor. Michigan, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
WILLUM F. SULLIVAN, '27, of Waterbur>', Connecticut, died April 30, 1962, according to word received from his wife. 
GEORGE B. WALSH, '27, died in Washington. D.C., April 17, 1962, according to word received in the Alumni Office. 
DR. WILLIAM J. McGEE, '28. of Daly City, California, died March 12, 1962. Sur\-ivors include his wife, a daughter, son, sister and four brothers. 
WILLUM H. PLUCHEL, '28, director for Mail and E.xpress for TWA, died April 20, 1962 in Douglaston, LI., Ne\%' York. He is survived by his wife and a son. 
EDWARD P. RAFTER, '28, died in Chicago. Illinois, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
FREDERICK RUIZ, '28, of LaJolU, California, died February- 12, 1962. After reccinng his doc­torate in Law he was an assistant professor at Notre Dame and spent the Last seventeen years 
teaching at Lajolla High School. His wife, son, three daughters and three brothers survive. 
• MOTHER MARY VERA, S.N.D., '29, of Rome, Italy, died April 13, 1%2, according to information received in the Alumni Office. No details. 
BERNARD \V. CONROY, '30, pereonncl man­ager of the Vandergrift plant of United Engineer­ing and Foundry Co., died March 12, 1962, in Ne\v Kensington, Pa. Besides being personnel manager, he was the local public relations representative and wrote a column for the company's employe mag­azine. His sur\ivors include his wife, a son and daughter. 
JOSEPH E. CANNY, '31, of Corning, New York, died March 18. 1962 according to word received in the Alumn! OfTicc. He is sur\*ived by his brother. 
> _^ RAYMOND T. McNALLY, '32, of Philadelphia. '^^' Pennsylvania, died November 22. 1959, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. WILLIAM T. SLADER, '32, of East Williston Park, LI, New York, died April 11, 19G2, accord­ing to word received in the Alumni Office. MICHAEL R. KOKEN, '33, who starred at half­back in 1930 on Knutc Rocknc's last football team, died April 15. 1962 in South Bend, Indiana. At the time of his death, Mr. Kokcn was vice-presi­dent in charge of sales for Tucker Freight Lines, Inc. After playing a year with the Chicago Card­inals in 1933, he coached basketball, was assistant football coach at John Carroll University and was also assistant to Hunk Anderson at North Carolina State. His survivors include his wife, two chil­dren, two brothers and seven sisters. 
. ^ THO.MAS C. BYRNE, '37, of Lakewood. Ohio, 
• ^ died March 12, 1962, according to information received from his wife. 
FRANKLIN J. FOX, '37, a public relations executive and former Associated Press staff writer, died April 21, 1962. His wife 5ur\-ives. 
BROTHER SEVERIN SMITH, C.S.C., '37. died April 26, 1962 in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, Indiana. Brother Scverin taught for nine years in foreign mission schools in East Pakbtan. For ten years before his death he was on the staff of Bo\-sville School in Clinton, Michigan. 
LEO R. BOYLE, '38, '41. of Munstcr, Indiana, died May 20, 1962. Sur\'iving arc his widow, a son, a daughter and three brothers. 
JOSEPH J. KELLY, '38, died in Chicago. Illi­nois, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
^ FRtVNCIS B. KELLY, '39. of Jacksonville, Flor-W ida. died December 25, 1961, according to word received from his mother. 
JOHN J. REDDY, '40, of Brooklyn, Ne\v York, died April 12, 1962, according to information re­ceived from his mother. 
DR. ROBERT P. FLYNN, *43, a dentist in Washington, D.C., died April 20, 1962. Sur\ivors include his wife, parents, three children and two Mstcrs. 
ROBERT P. HURLEY, '49, died in Chicago, Illinois, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
WILLIAM A. HOVEY, '52, of Lake Placid, New ^ York, died April 6, 1962, in an automobile acci­^ dent. Mr. Hovey, a former halfback for Notre 
Dame, was a motel operator, president of the Lake Placid Chamber of Commerce and a member of the executive board of the Eastern Amateur Ski Association. He is survived by his wife. 
JAMES S. HURLEY, '53, of Cincinnati, Ohio, died in an automobile accident in LaCrange, Ken­tucky, May 14, 1962. At the time of his death, Mr. Hurley was a law instnictor at the Salmon T. Chase College. Sur\*ivor? include his parents and a sister. 
CHARLES J. STAPF, JR., '58, of Toledo, Ohio, died May 11, 1962. He was with the E. I. DuPont dc Nemours Co., Wilmington, Delaware from 1958 to 1961 and with the Maumcc Chemical Co. at the time of his death. His wife, two sons, parents and two sisters sur\*ive. 
HAROLD C. CONICK, Minims, died April 26, 1962 in New York City, according to information ^ received in the Alumni Office. 
^ JOSEPH J. WUERTH, Minims, electrician for the town of BclIe^Tie, Iowa, died February 26, 1962. Until his retirement in 1960, Mr. Wuerth was sales manager for Murray Iron Works of Burlington. Surx'iving are his wife and a daughter. 
PROFESSOR FRANCIS W. KERVICK, profes­sor emeritus and longtime head of the department of architecture at Notre Dame, died May 8, 1962. He became head of the Notre Dame architecture department in 1914 and held that post until his retirement in 1930. He collaborated in the design 
• of five major buildings on campus. 
JAMES SANFORD, 1915 Secretary, crashed the 1917 Class Reunion in order to present a book to the Law Library, inscribed by the author, fanicd Chicago attorney Palmer Edmunds, in memory of a friendship that began in France with the American Expeditionary Force. 
50-YEAR CLUB 
REUNION REGISTR.\N*TS D.ANIEL O'CONNOR, CUVUDE A. SORG. 
Diamond Jubilee congratulations to WILLIAM J. 
BLAKE, JR., '87, 73 Dubois St.. Ncwburgh, N.Y., 
whom the Mid-Hudson Valley N.D. Club honored 
on Notre Dame Night for 75 years as an alumnus. 
JLM AR-MSTRONG, FATHER JOHN WALSH 
and BILL MURPHY were present to give him 
a section from the original Dome. 
.According to U-VWRENCE J. WELCH and JOHN 
STARK, '17, the talented voung man whom PAUL 
.MARTIN-DILLON, '09, recalled as having died 
during World War I training at Camp Grant, 
Rockford, 111., u-as ARTHUR HAYES. '15, of 
Chisholm, Minn. Appropriate notes in the 1915 
and 1917 columns might restore to "Bish" Hayes, 
who might have written the Great American 
Novel, a portion of the immortality denied him 
by omniscient Providence. 

^fartin-DiIlon sent thanks for ''identifying the young writer who died at Camp Grant. Yes, it was Arthur Hayes. /Vs soon as I saw the name it clicked. Time was when I had an impeccable memory* for names but it is slipping, which is only to be expected. 
"It was a surprise to find myself again quoted at length in the last issue. . . . One of my younger relatives in Hartford — the mother of those famous children whose N.D.-St, Mary's heritage is second to none (.Mrs. BOB DALTON, '49, .Aug.­Sept., 1958. Ed.) — wrote me to tell me how proud she was that you should nominate me as the 'elder statesman' of the newspaper business. Well, I may be the oldest N.D. alumnus still active in newspaper work, but 1 saw the name of a San Diego editor who was recently awarded the Pulitzer Prize who is 85 years old. I am not that yet. Wc had an alumnus named Murphy with the Minneapolis Tribune who was in harness when, I am sure, he was older than I am now. He's dead long since. (Any classmates to confirm. Semi-centenarians? Ed.) 
"It is just too bad ARTHUR HAYES didn't live to mature a bit more and to fulfill the prediction made of him by FR. JOHN W. OWANAUGH. I recall his Scholastic stories, for in those days I received the Scholastic regularly. They were fine. I am so proud that EDWIN O'CONNOR ('39) has been given the Pulitzer Prize for fiction. Strange, though, that he got it this year for his 'Edge of Sadness' and not for 'The Last Hurrah.' I haven't read his new novel, but the young cousin referred to above (St. Mary's '50), who is a good critic, says it cannot touch 'Hurrah.' I must read it." 
Paul also mentioned a lot of correspondence with old roommate DENNY HAYES, '09, former Satur­day Evening Post and Hollywood writer, Liberty Magazine fiction editor, etc., who now heads his own publicity firm in Los Angeles. Apparently no relation to the late Art Hayes. 
The news that President Kennedy had nominated the former governor of Virginia as Judge of the 
U.S. Court of Customs and Patent Appeals signalled the retirement of the HON, AMBROSE COON­NELL, '07, whom Gov. Almond replaces after 17 years in the court. Congratulations to Judge O'Connell, former national president of the Alumni Association, for his distinguished service in Cus­toms Court since 194(. 
The toll of alumni emeriti in the obituaries has 
thinned out considcr^ly after recent issues in 
which the reporting of previously unreported deaths 
made this column look like a disaster list. Quite 
a !cw semicentenarians have passed away, however, 
in recent months. 
Two "Minims" from days since the turn of the century have died in this time. HAROLD C. CONICK of Ne%v York City died last April 26. He was an executive of the Ro>-al Globe Insurance Co., U.S. manager of the Royal-Liverpool In­surance Group and a member of Notre Dame's Ne\v- York President's Committee. JOSEPH J. WUERTH died last Feb. 26 in Decorah, Iowa. He had been town electrician in his native Bellevuc, Iowa, district manager for Interstate Power Co., and retired as sales manager for Murray Iron Works, Burlington. Surviving are his widow Alice, a daughter, granddaughter and two great-grand­children. 
Two deaths were reported in the Class of '06. Somehow the death of RAYMOND J. BURNS, a very loyal alumnus and a member of the Alono­gram Club, went unreported till now. Ray was said to have passed away in Pittsburgh in 1959. FRANK H. VOGEL, SR., another member of the Class, died March 20 in Columbus, O., where he had been a manufacturer of vending machines for 50 years. He was a leader of the Retreat League, 
K. of C. and other religious activities in Columbus. Surviving, besides his wife Charlotte, are six sons, a daughter and 16 grandchildren. 
Also reported but not confirmed was the death of ALBERT L. METCALF, 'U, in Chicago. Chi­cago committeemen returned a pledge card marked "deceased" with no information on survivors or date of death. 
To these and any other emeriti we may have missed go the prayers of the Notre Dame Family, and to their survivors our sincere sympathy. 
Best wishes to REV. PETER FORRESTAL, 'II, in his retirement from the modern languages faculty. ^Ve know Father Forrcstal will continue to be spiritual director for Spanish-spealung farm workers in the area, among many other activities. 
1912 
B. J. "Ben" Kaiser 6(H East Tenth St Berwick, Pa. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
E. W. BRUCE, WALTER DUNCAN, WILLUM 
G. HINTZ, B. J. KAISER, JAY L. LEE, JOHN 
F. McCAGUE, FRED H. MEIFELD, J.A.MES O'LEARY. 
WILLIAM J. PARISH of Momence, III. in­formed me that he had a slight heart attack just after last Christmas and also that he lost his right arm in October of 1959 but in spite of it all he ivould try to make the GOLDEN JUBILEE. 
GEORGE PHILBROOK wrote to JAY L. LEE (Lee is my assistant secretary): "I am sure elated to receive your nice letter of February 4. Yes, the years are rolling by and Grandpa Philbrook (7 times) age 78 is beginning to stub his toes. It is out of the question for me to attend the Golden Reunion. A few years ago I had a heart attack and the Doc says no traveling." 
WILLIAM B. HAYDEN of Shullsburg, Wis., ad­mitted that after 72 years he is not as good as he used to be in walking downhill to South Bend but he might Just make it for the Golden Jubilee. 
I wish to extend my sincere thanks to all Class members who responded to my letters and to those who did not I send my unconditional *'Absolu­tionem." In the next issue of the Alumnus you will find my full report on the GOLDEN JUBILEE activities and some interesting statistifis on the activities of the Class for its first fifty years. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 51 
1913 
Paul R. Byrne 360 Wamcr Ave Syracuse 5, N. Y, 
REUNION REGISTRANT JAMES W. 0'HAR^\. 

From the Alumni Oflicc: 
It was brought to our attrntion iliat m the last issue PAUL BYRNE unaccountably unseated TED RADEMAKER as Sccrctar>- of the Class of '19, while '13 was missing from the roster. This ex­plains the lack of news in recent months; all of Paul Byrne's mail was going to Peru. Indiana. Secretary Byrne is back at his old Class of '13 stand in S>Tacuse, N.Y., and reminds you to clieck in — the Golden Reunion is less than a year awav. ^ ^ 
Five years ago BILL COTTER crashed tlie Class of '12 reunion in preparation for a 45th reunion of '13 which death prevented the next year. But 1958 brought FRANK BRESLIN, CLYDE BROUS­SARD, C. BYRON HAYES, JESSE HERR, JIM O'BRIEN, JIM O'HARA, ED ROACH, and FRED (CY) WILLIAMS. A mucli bigger attendance is expected for the Jubilee next June. 
1914 

Walter Clements 
623 Park Avenue 
South Bend, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRANT POYNTELLE DO>\'NING. 

A welcome letter from Dr. John R. Dundon, '14. 
5355 N. DIvcrsc>- Blvd., Wiitefish Bay, Wis., 
readies our desk. Doc is now a physician and 
surgeon in Milwauka where he located shortly 
after graduating from Rush Medical. 
\\*hcn we were classmates and wliile he was 
getting his LL.B. at N.D. he was from Ishpcming. 
Now lie gives us ne%vs of himself and wife and 
their nine diildren. One of the sons is to be or­
dained a priest of the Discalced Carmelites on 
Aug. 15, the other a Jesuit later on. A daughter 
is a nun of the Sisters of Notre Dame. 
Dr. Dundon encloses a vivid account by his 
daughter, Frances, 22. of her sur\*ival of the 
two-hundred-milc-an-hour Hurricane Hattie in 
British Honduras where she is teaching at a Jesuit 
Mission. She writes of the beautiful early hours 
of a night that were calm — too calm — bring­
ing eerie sounds from the bush, drums from the 
jungle and the cawing of birds from the sea. 
Before morning their building was blown from 
around them. When light came they could see 
houses, roofs, trees, boats and animals hurtling 
through the wind. Then came ths tidal wave 
wasliing into the openings where windows had been 
and inundating what was left of floors. 
Doc writes that he doesn't intend to retire be­cause if he did his family would star\'e. Character­istically he adds: *'Wc general practitioners don't accumuJate wealtli, and it's a good thing, because of the responsibility of sharing with the under­privileged whidi miglit be diflicult if one ^vere rich." 
In similar vein his daughter. Frances, condudes 
her letter from Honduras, thus: *'Don't worry be­
cause all is O.K. Just do me a favor—as you always 
do—pray that I ^vc generously of m^-sdf for my 
people here, and help and teach them extra well." 
Their other two daughters are married. Jim, Peter and Jane are still in school in Milu-aukec. Frances had graduated from Marquette last June. Doctor and Mrs. Dundon find time from their bus>' life for recreation, he in sculling at the Rowing Club, she in bowling. 
From the Alumni Oflicc: 
Best wshcs for JOHN F. HYNES, chairman of the board of Employers Mutual Casualt>' Co., in his retirement after 44 years with the company, the longest service record of any employee. His story will probably appear in the **SpotUght." John lives at 4927 Grand Ave., Dcs Moines, Iowa. 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1962 
Among those who can be relied on to keep us informed through clippings from local papers is CCORGE T. HANLON, JR., Sp. 50, 1973 New­port, Costa Mesa, California. 
The Paulist Fathers in New York City have noti­fied the office that a famed honorary- dassmatc is deceased, but we have no date on the death. REV. ^\^LLIAM JOSEPH FINN, C.S.P., was a famed musician and the guiding spirit of the re­nowned Paulist Choristers. Requicscat in pace. Other news of the Choristers in a picture this issue. 
1915 
James £. Sanford 1429W.FarragutAv. Chicago 40, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTR^XNTS OWEN MURPHY, JAMES SANFORD. 
From the Alumni Office: 
"He Hands Out Billions, but Won't Get Cent" — **SociaI Security Cash Not for Offidal." Tlic Chicago Tribune, in an artidc on ALBERT A. KUHLE, announced his retirement May 31 after 25 years of government ser\*icc: "Tlie man charged with giving sodal security benefits to more than 1,600,000 persons in Wisconsin, Illinois, and Indiana will not be eligible for the pa>'mcnts when he retires. . . . But he plans to begin a new writing and consulting career through which, as a self-employed person paying social security taxes, he hopes some day to be entitled to its benefits. 
"He is Albert A. Kuhlc, 117 Sunset Ave., La Grange, who has been head of the Social Security Administration's regional office in Chicago since August, 1936, when it was established five months before the social security law became cfTectivc Jan. I, 1937. . . . When he was hired by the government he was the sodal security administra­tion's first and only employe in Chicago. 
"His staff when the law went into effect was less than 20 persons, split up among the regional office and three district offices. . . . Today he is in charge of 1,760 employes working in 70 dis­trict offices. .. . In 1961 more than $1-^^ billion flowed through his office. . . . Nearly 475,000 Cook County persons receive the pa>Tncnts at the rate of one million dollars a day. 
"After a trip to Europe with his wife Katherinc, Kuhlc plans 'to do some writing and speaking* and to provide consulting services to industry and gov­
ernment. His favorite subjects are the problems of 
the aged and preparation for retirement. 
*' 'I think forcing a man to retire at 65 is the 

silliest thing in the world,' he said. 'He loses all 
the social contacts he had on his job, and then he 
starts rocking on the porch. And, brother, he just 
won't rock very long. Actirity is what keeps life 
going.* . , . 
'*Mr. and Mrs. Kuhlc have two daughters . . . 

and five grandchildren." 
GEORGE N. SHUSTER, assistant to FATHER 

HESBURGH and former president of New York's 
Hunter College, can be seen discussing education 
with actor Hans Conried on the latter's television 
series *'Great Voices from the Great Books," 
sponsored by Enc>xlopacdia Britannica and recently 
released to local commercial television stations. 
In the 50-Ycar Club column of the last issue, 

PAUL MARTIN-DILLON wondered aloud about 
a young soldier who died In AVorld War I train­
ing at Camp Grant in 1917 — "a lad just grad­
uated who during his college course had shown 
such promise as a stor>- writer that F.\THER JOHN 
CAVANAUGH the elder predicted that he would 
become one of the great American novelists. . . . 
Sorr>-I can't recall his name." 
Two members of the Class of '17 did remember 

that it was a contemporarv named ARTHUR 
HAYES, Ph.B. '15. Wrote JOHN T. STARK: 
"His name was ART HAYES, Chishohn, Minnesota. 
A master of words, and all-round outstanding stu­
dent, a tremendous brain and a fine gentleman. ^•• 
Mav he rest in peace." 
LAWRENCE J. WELCH wrote: "I was reading ^ the . . . ALUMNUS and noticed a request for information on page 23 about a certain ^V.^\'. I soldier. The man referred to was undoubtediv ARTHUR H^VYES, commonly called "Bish." .. . > He was from Chisholm. Minn. Came back for graduate work and taught some prep classes. He • 
had been Colonel of the Cadet Battalion. Was ; editor of the magazine section of the Chicago Record-Herald while in school. Had a terrific vo­cabulary*. FATHER a\RRICO moved from dass to dass, year by year, to work on Hayes and Bish resented it deeply. Had unusual promise. Went into scr\-icc, was put to drilling recruits, got overheated, pneumonia and died. P.S. J.AKE KLEIN should know him." 
HON. RAYMOND J. KELLY adriscd of "plans to finish my work here in Washington (D.C.) in the near future and to move back to our home ^ in Detroit by the 1st of June. .. . I am looking forward to June of 1965, which will be the 50tli anniversary of our class, and I do expect to be down for commencement in June of 1963, which will be the 25th anniversary' of mv son, R.\Y­MOND J. KELLY, JR., '38, and the graduation [ 
from Notre Dame of my grandson, RAYMOND J. KELLY, HI." Ray, who was Class of '15 repre-
SAN DIEGO—Notre Dame Man of the Year Carlos Tavares (second from left), is shown receiving certificate from Jerry Bill at recent annual Universal N.D. Night dinner of the San Diego Club. Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C (left), asdstant to the president of the University for academic affairs, and John Cawley, right, dub president, smile their approvaL Father Moor^ featured speaker at the dinner, is a ^ long-time friend of Tavares, a prominent San Diego businessman. ^ 
sentalivc for Universal Notre Dame Night in 
WV'asI iinglon, added that this "should scr\'e to give you the dope about the Kellys, especially the 're­turn of the wanderers' (after 10 years — Chicago, Alaska, Washington) to the old homestead which we have kept as our anchorage since we built it 33 years ago." Ray can be reached at 18073 Fairfield Ave.. Detroit, Xfich. 
FATHER HESBURGH announced recently that the FATHER KERNDT HE.\LY Scholarship has been assigned to Noire Dame High School, Park Ridge, III., for a period of five years. Named in honor of the late REV. KERNDT M. HE.ALY, C.S.C., the scholarship will be awarded to the top senior for the period of his undergraduate educa­tion. "Young men who will hold this scholarship 
* should be proud of its name. Father Ilealy showed 
^'th c ideal qualities of the educated Christian: wit and humor, taste, tact, a deep s>nnpathy with all kinds of men, loyalty and dedication, intelligence, ability to carr>* responsibility gracefully and wisely." 
A recognition dinner was held in Chicago on May 21 to honor AL KUHLE on his retirement, witli 360 bureau employees and guests attending. Several federal officials gave spoken tributes to Al, including the director of the Social Security Bureau, the regional director of the H.E.W. De­partment and tlic former director, who flew in from Florida to pay his respects. Also present was Mrs. Kuhte, their daughters and sons-in-law, Mrs. Kuhle's brother. Rev. Denis Donovan, and their pastor in LaGrangc, Msgr. William O'Brien. The district offices gave him a cash gift to furnish his 
^L office and study. His professional staff in the 
^ regional office presented him with a radio, and he received a set of cuff links and lie clasp from his clerical staff. Finally, AI's Congressman Roman Pucinski put a lengthy tribute to "Albert A. Kuhle. a Dedicated Public Servant," in the Congressional Record. Excerpts: "It has been my firm judg­ment that Mr. Kuhle epitomizes the highest stand­ards of our Federal employees. .. . I am sure his ser\'iccs and his counsel will be missed at the Chicago Social Security office. However, we can find encouragement in the fact that in his retire­ment, Mr. Kuhle plans to devote his time to writing about the many experiences and lessons he has learned as a high-ranking administrator of the Federal Government." 
S?crctary JIM SANFORD, vcr>-much in evi­dence as an off-year cclcbrator with the Class of *I7, got a very pleasant recognition for his efforts 
^ in "Breaking the Age Barrier" that same week at Chicago's "Adventures in Living" Exposition at Na\y Pier, sponsored by the Mayor's Commission for Senior Citizens, .-\mong the impressive exhibits was the Hall of Fame, an aggregation of photo­graphs and citations of those seniors who have ''performed distinguished scr\*ice to Chicago." Jim, of course, was selected as a Hall of Famer on the basis of his work for the employment of men and women over 65. 
1916 
Grovcr F. Miller 220 —9th St. 
Racine, Wisconsin 

REUNION RECISTR.\NTS R.AY HUAfPHREYS, WALTER McCOURT, SR., PATRICK MALOXEY, REV. VINCENT .MOONEY. 
From the Alumni Office: WILLIAM E. BR/\DBURY was sworn in as as­sistant state's attorney of Crawford County, III., in April shortly after his selection had been an­^ nounced bv his brother. State's Attornev J. ^ STANLEY BRADBURY, '23, who had suffered a heart attack shortly before. A special meeting of the County Board of Supervisors authorized the job so that action can be taken in criminal com­plaints during Stan's conx'alcscence. Bill, who has practiced law and led in veterans' affairs for many years in Robinson, III., indicated he had not sought the appointment, had never felt any great desire to hold public office and hoped his brother would soon be able to resume his regular duties. Bill wrote asking the prayers of FATHER ED­9 WARD FINNEGAN, FATHER CHARLES DO­REMUS and FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH. All 
UTAH — Guest for U.N.D. Night at Salt Lake City's Uni\-crsity Club, Rev. Philip 
S. Moore, C.S.C. (center), academic assistant to Father Hesburgh, is welcomed by Pres. Don Roncy (left) and Vice-Pres. Len Di Giacomo. 
the Class will surely join them in wishes to Bill and hopes for Stan's quick recovery. 
If GROVER MILLER has been a little short of correspondence in recent months. It may be because the office failed to note a change of address Grovcr sent a couple of years ago. Your Secretary can be reached for sure at the address above. 
1917 
Edward J. McOskcr 525 N. Melrose Ave. Elgin, nimois 
REUNION' REGISTR,\NTS HARRY C. BAUJ,\N, &\RLTOX D. BEH, LEO 
S. BERNER, JOHN E. (iVSSIDY, CHARLES 
G. CORCOR.\N, SHERWOOD DIXON, OSCtVR DORWIN, JOSEPH F. FL^TCN, PAUL FOGARTY, JOHN CARRY, RjVYMOND J. GRr\H,VM, JAMES 
D. HAYES, DANIEL E. HILGARTNER, JR., .\NDREW J. HUBER, WILLIA.M E. KENNEDY, JA.MES T. McMAHON, EDWARD J. McOSKER, FRED .MAHAFFEY, PAUL .MEIFELD, JOHN .MILLER, DR. D. .M. NIGRO, WILLIA.M C. O'BRLVN, LEO D. O'DONNELL, JOHN RILEY, LEO.N RUSSELL, IL\RRY E. SCOTT, GEORGE 
W. SHANAHAN, ELMER P. TOBIN, .MATTHEW 
E. TRUDELLE, LEO J. VOGEL, BERNARD J. VOLL, Li\WRENCE J. WELCH. 
From the Alumni Office: ARTHUR (DUTCH) BERGNL\N got an in­tcrcstini* profile recently in the Washington (D.C.) Sunday Star under the headline: "Turning Point of a Career: Frustrated Animal Trainer.** Excerpts: "Any teen-ager, whose great ambitions have been frustrated by parental interv-enlion, knows how ARTHUR J. BERG.MAX felt 30 years ago. '*After all, parents can be unreasonable. All *Dutch' wanted was to get into the cages with lions and tigers. And he did. on a number of oc­casions, until word filtered back to the folks, who saw no resemblance between their iD-ycar-old son and the biblical Daniel. " 'I lived in Peru, Ind.,' recalls Bergman, who is manager of the D. C. Stadium and ^Vrmory. *That was the big winter quarters for the ^Vmcrican Circus Corp. I saw the animal trainers and that was my big ambition — to be a wild animal train­er. . . . They started to train me. My parents didn*t know it but I was going into the cages with the lions and tigers. Of course, they were trained, but 1 still remember the veterinarian-surgeon of the show telling me that you can never trust a four-footed animal. . . . What was it like? Well, you have that same nervousness you get going into a football game or a boxing match. 
You are on guard and you knmv you can't take citances. . . . But then my parents found out about it,^ and that was the end of my career as an animal trainer. My father thought it would be an excellent idea to send me out of town for school — so they sent me to Notre Dame Prep, 75 miles to the North.'" 
That was life's turning point for Bergman. He prepped there three years, was a star football play­er and naturally continued his education at the University. . . . Bergman, who has a law- degree, almost went into the mining business. He was working as a foreman for the Main Island Creek Coal Co. in Omar, W. Va., when he received a call tiom Knute Rockne telling him of a coaching job at New ^fexico AScSl. After much delibera­tion. Dutch took the Job. "I ended up coadiing 

• football, baseball, track, basketball and girls' basketball, was head of the physical education de­partment, taught history and English and in my spare lime worked for a law firm." 
He went on to coadi football at the University of Dayton, Minnesota and Catholic University. He coached at CU for 10 years, compiling a 33-17-2 record, which included a victory over Mississippi m the 1936 Orange Bowl game. 
He coached the Redskins to the Eastern Division title in 1943 and then quit coaching to devote his time to business and a job as a radio and tele­vision sporlscaster. . . , Dutch married his home­town sweetheart, Florence Schearer. They have two children. Daughter Nancy is married to Navy Cmdr. Robert Monahan and (recently) turned her par­ents into grandparents. Arthur, Jr., is assistant trust officer at Riggs National Bank. Neither young .Arthur nor Nancy wanted to be wild animal trainers. It's j"ust as ivell. Tlieir father wouldn't have permitted it. 
Thanks to L<\WRE.\CE J. \VELCH and JOHN 
T. STARK for their memoirs of ART HAYES, '13, 
to be found in the 1913 column. S>Tnpathy to the widow and children of SIMON 
R. RUDOLPH, .Vkron, O., whom death pre­vented from attending the reunion. 
Look for a story on the reunionists above in the next column. 
1918 
Charles W. CaU 225 PatcTSon Ave. Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey 
REUNION REGISTRANTS ALL,\N W. FRIT2SCHE, J. L. SWXENEY. 

Don't look now but 45 years will have elapsed by June, 1963, since our 1918 Class members mounted the rostrum to receive degrees. Many were to hurry off to war, and all were to have the opportunity to face the \-agaries of the years with at least pretty good educations. So classmates start right now to plan to be on hand for the 43th reunion; you arc sure to enj'oy meeting those whom you have not seen for many years, perhaps not at all since you were the big men on the campus. President JOHN A. LE.MMER has named a committee on preparations as follows: REV. GEORGE HOLDERITH, C.S.C., and REV. RJVYMON D MURRAY, C.S.C., both of Notre Dame; REV. CHARLES WILLI.-\.MS, Ranloul, III.; JOHN REUSS, Fort Wavne, Ind.; HO.N. VINCENT GIBLIN, Miami. Fla.; GEORGE HERBERT, Rock Island, 111.; EDWARD .McLAUGHUN, New York City; E. .MORRIS STARRETT, Olympia, Wash.; TOM KING, East Lansing. Mich.; and CftVRLES W. CALL, Hasbrouck Heights, N. J. 
REV. WILLI.A.M S. HARBERT was ordained a priest by The Most Rev. John Baptist Franz, D.D., Bishop of Peoria, on June 3rd, and celebrated his Brst solemn high mass at St. Pius X Church, Rock Island, 111., on June 10. Father Harbcrt is the son of Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE E. H.-VRBERT, of Rock Island, and George acted as secretary of our Class for many years prior to 1938. 
GEORGE WAAGE is authority for the infor­mation that BIG FRANK RYDEfVSKI, once the terror of opposing football teams when they were so stupid as to try to get through center, is no longer quite as reliable physically as he used to be. George had the big fellow down to the campus 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 53 
CHICAGO — Gathered at the Conrad Hilton Hotel for the annual Club Communion Breakfast after Mass at Old St. Mary's Church last spring were (l.-r.) Joseph Pai^liari, president; Father Tom Brcnnan, guest speaker; Burt Korzen, toastniastcr; and Bill Kearney, chainnan. Shown niakini; arrangements for the successful St. Patrick's Day Party sponsored by Chicago\s Ladies Auxiliar>' arc (l.-r.) Mrs. Cyrus Friedheim, chairman of the affair; Mrs. Thomas Sexton, president of the nuxiliar>*; and Irish mascot, little Tim Geary. Benefit was the Scholarship Fund. 
lo visit >oiur of the more iiinliiic priests, rrcciitly, 
ami lie iiifi»niis Frank's "tloss" jii>t can't lake 
Uw ttiticli walkini;. Srr what 45 yrars will <li) to 
a follow. 
NKIl, J. WHAI.EN, M.D., who was for four 

years a iirniirdical stutlml at N'otrc Dainr. lias 
Itcrii named "IMi\-$ician on the ConMillini; StalF" 
of Ilaritcr llo^pitnl, Detroit. Michigan. Neil for 
a loiii; periml of lime lias been :iSM>ciatefI with 
the hospital. 
From the vMnnuii Otiirc: Synipatliv to Mrs. FHnor Craven. %vicli>w of clxssmatc JOSEPH .-V. CRAVEN who died m .May. Joe was a lawyer, attorney for the Denver Arch­diocese for the past *U years, a leader of the 
K. of C , St. Vincent de Faul, N.C.C.M.. Relicat League and other Catlinlic laymen's activities. A former chainnan for the Noire Dame Foundation, lie was prt>mtnent in such civic afTatrs as Bine Cross, tlic Community Chest and Welfare Council. His contribniion lo the Church in the West as one of its "first citizens.'* particularly in the field of Catholic education, was told in an editorial. ".\ Champion Dies.** in the Denver Register. Keqiiiescat in pace. 
WILUAM H. WALKER (Route 2. Box 1. I'arkville, Mo.) sent to the campus for "a list of b(N>ks authored by Noire Dame mm. partiru­larlv bv those men 1 miuht have known, such as F.ATIIERS O'DONNELL. CWANAUGH, CAK­RICO, SCHUMACHER, the BURKE'S. BOI.GER, cic." Since no such current list exists, perhaps Hill's cki-^smales could help him out. 
1919 
Thco. C Rademaker Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Indiana 

Fitini the Alumni Otltce: 
Hie Class may have been a little confused by the presence of 1*.\UL BYRNE, '13. in the Secreiar>'s seal at the top of this column in a recent issue. TED RADE.MAKER is still in control oui of IVnt. Indiana, and Byrne has been nio\-ed back lo Syracuse, N.Y.. and the 1913 column, whence he came by t\*piigraphical error, h ^^'x-: pn>bably a typesetter's compensation for putting MAURICE CARROLL in the Class of '12 in the Alumni Board Roster of ihe same issue. Maurie appreciated the chance in make a Golden Jubilee reunion seven years ahead of schedule, but he proved h:s loyally to the Clas* of *19 by insisting on a retraction at ihc Mav board nieetincs in New York. 
Best wishes go to P.\UL FENLON, the Sage of Sorin Tower, in his announced retirement to a less rigonms sciiedule after more than 40 years u a shining light of the English department faculty. 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1962 
Paul looks good for another 40 years and is prob­ably still mistaken for a graduate student on the campus. 
1920 

James H. Ryan 170 Maybrook Rd. Rochester 18, N. V. 
From the Alnmnt Ollice: 

It was giwd to hear that LEO B. WARD was again one of the shining lights of Universal Notre Dame Xtght in Los Angeles, his health having rallied. It is lo be presumed that ^LARCE VER­BIEST, as Michigan's Foundation Governor, had gtKKl news on the progress of the Challenge Drive at the gala N.D. Night in Detroit. 
1921 

Dan W. Duffy 1101 Superior BIdg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
Fn>m the .-Munini Oilice: 

Sympathy to WALTER A. SWEENEY of South Bend and to his family on the death of Walt*s sister. Mar\-. last Februarx-. recently reported by another sister. Mrs. Helen Mulrcj-. 
Best wishes of the Class and the University go to R.W SCHUBMEHL on his retirement from the Notre Dame faculty after many years as assistant dean of the College of Engineering. 
1922 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe 173 Landing Rd. No. Rochester 25, N. Y. 
REU.NIO.V REGISTRANTS HF-\RTI.EY W. ANDERSON, CER.\I.D A. ASHE, JOSEl'H n. IlEHAN, FRANK C. BLASIUS, 
FRANK B. BLOEMER, JR., JA.MES A. CAR.\I. ODY, ALBERT &ARROLL, T. PIERRE CHAM­PIO.N, J. RALPH CORYN, JOHN P. CULLE.\, JEROME F. DIXON, FRED B. DRESSEL, WILFRED OUTER, JOSEPH H. FARLEY, C. 
B. FITES, JAMES S. FORE.V, ROBERT GALLO­W.W, VINCENT J. HANRAHAN, JOHN P. HART, JOHN T. HIGGLVS, JA.MES V. JONES, R.\YXIOND J. KE.\RNS, GEORGE C. KERVER, LEO J. LOVETT, JA.MES R. -McCABE, THO.MAS 
S. Mc&iBE, B. J. McCAFFERY, WALTER J. M.ATTHES, J. FRANK .MILES, WILLIAM J. MURPHY, D.ANIEL J. O'CO.NNELL, THO.M.AS^ 
E. OWE.\S, PAUL PADE.N, EDWARD H.V PFEIFFER, ROBERT R. PHEL.AX, JOHN B. REARDON, RO.MAI.VE R. REICHERT, &ARLOS 
J. S.AWYER, P.AUL J. SCHWXRTLEY, ALFONSO 
A. SCOTT, D.ANIEL L. SEXTO.N, JOSEPH B. SH.AUGHNESSY, JAMES C. SH.AW, LAWRENCE 
T. SH.AW, ARTHUR C. SHEA, .MORG.AN F. SHEEDY, CLARE.NXE R. S.MITH, EUGE.\E A. SMOGOR, A. HAROLD WEBER, .MATTHEW 
W. WEIS, CHESTER A. WYNNE, D.ANIEL H. YOUNG. 
.As these notes arc written, our -lOtli Reunion h still one month away, but when you read them our reunion will be history. Wc direct our ^ grateful tlianks to all who made the Journey to Notre Dame to be active participants. The vcr>' satne to our wonderful classmates of the St. Joseph Valley, who under the leadership of FRED DRES­SEL, made the necessary arrangements to prepare another outstanding reunion — for which the Class of '22 is now justly famed. We do owe much to Fred and his stalwart lieutenants — R.ANGY .MILES, PAUL SCHWERTLEY, and HAROLD WEBER, who prepared the way for us. We doubt if any class ever graduated from Notre Dame has had more cooperation and help from their St. Joe affiliates than wc have received. Lastly, wc extend our sympathy to all of '22 who would have been in attendance at Notre Dame, except that poor health, or some emergenc>' like a family wedding or graduation prevented hint from being on the campus. FATHER GEORGE l-ISCIIER, C.S.C., sent his regrets — he had In (live retreats to priests and seininariaiis in ht<i liMtur rily of ^ Rochester, N. Y., and RICAKI) MitlARIV has * been hospitalized of late in Oanlon. 0>. IKHI roiild not attend. 
Wc deeply re}{rel news it( the drrtlh of our classmate, DR. JOHN MOIIAI(l>'l'. n> irpoilcd in the daily pre»«. JOIMMIV iMt'tumh Wi»% riitht hain>aclc in llir nmn Imcltlirltl llml hull CI'.ORCE GIPP and CHCT WVNNi;, He Wt- mini a. an excellent ball catrirf BNII bh'titt'fj shti l(*e*f(l J»atsa like In-fiy (Jri'VC llllew lja=ti)R!l«: Of: Modarifl wai ill llic hiell Ftlitfiiii of liie Vtlff»i(= Mmin­ittralioii In W'«--Iii«sl!iil.- D;0; in^ioie fpl(>iiii! lo f live ill lllf •!>ll(lit7il GsiUuliik eviiisl *«!(»«- Our 

^rlcep sympathy to the family of the deceased. Please V.'cmember them and John in your prayers. 
I 
For many years FRITZ BAUMER was the sole representative of our Class in the state of Florida. Recently two of his classmates have moved into that state —FRANK BLOEMER, JR., whose address is P.O. Box 79, Aripcka. Florida, and PAUL McDERMOTT, c/o The Southlake .Apart­ments, 315 South Lake Drive, Palm Beach. Fritz, of course, still resides in Jacksonville. Winter visitors in Florida included the CHARLES CROW­LEYS, of Weston, Massachusetts and Mrs. HENRY ATKINSON of Green Bay, Wbconsin. A great honor was conferred upon a classmate — DR. DANIEL SEXTON — last November in Miami Beach, Florida, when he was elected president of i.^ the Southern Medical f\ssociation at its 56th dfcinnual meeting. The SMA has 13,000 members. 
^ Tlic TO.M McaVBES of Elmhursl, III., were vacationing in California around Easter. They contacted or tried to communicate with '22 men in that state—FRANK CONNELLY and JERRY JONES in the San Francisco area and JUDGE AL SCOTT and GENE KENNEDY in Los Angeles. 
The University of Santa Clara has announced iliat an 8,000-seat stadium to be built in Santa Clara. California, this summer will be named for LAWRENCE T. (BUCK) SHAW, who coached so successfully at Santa Clara from 1936 to 1942 in football. This will be the second athletic field named for a member of our Class. The first one was on Guadalcanal in World War II to honor 

^LT . ARNOLD McGRATH, who was kilKd on an ^ammunition ship destroyed in an explosion while anchored off shore. 
From the Alumni Office: JUDGE ROGER KILEY wrote JI.M AR.M­STRONG that he arranged a memorial Mass for JOHN MOHARDT at St. Peter's Church in Chi­cago. Present were CHET WYNNE, HUNK ANDERSON, OJAY LARSON, GUS DESCH. PAUL PFOHL, JUDGE NOR.MAN BARRY and JOHN MONTAGUE. PAUL PFOHL, by the way, has been appointed a vice-president of Radio Corporation of America. Congratulations, Paul. WALTER SHILTS, besides his labors in the civil engineering department, continues as one of the leaders of the Tri-Valley Council of the Boy Scouts of America. Waller's son, FATHER JIM ^SHILTS , C.S.C., said a special Mass for the faculty in May. Father Jim. a physicist and hi-fi expert, is rector of Zahm Hall. 
1923 
Louis V. Bruggner 
2165 Riverside Dr. 
South Bcndi Indiana 
REUNION REGISTR.-VNTS 

REV. JOSEPH BRxVNNIGAN, C.S.C., LOUIS BRUGGNER, JOHN P. CHAPL^V, JAMES ^^AR­TIN, THO.\L\S PLOUFF. 
Willy-nilly, deaths crowd happier news out of this column again. But we are now almost forty years out of school, and the tempo of deaths sometimes seems to quicken. 
.MR. AND MRS. H^UVEL A. GRINAGER died within three weeks of each other in ^fa^ch: DR. KEVIN E. CURR^\N died suddenly April 9 on a vacation in Mexico about a ninnth after the death of his father; and THO.MAS J. LIEB again made national headlines with his passing on April 30. 
All these obituaries have unusual facets in their 

• telling. "HOLLY" GRINAGER'S life was de­spaired of a year ago following a heart attack and Mrs. Grinager took over his care and that of their business. A brain hemorrhage killed her within hours on March 9 and a week later Holly was taken to the hospital for treatment of his heart condition. He improved rapidly, was released after a week or so, and was found dead In his home at noon of the morning lie went home. Five hours before his funeral. Holly's daughter, ^frs. Richard K. Frisch, went to the hospital for delivery­
, ^ of her child. Mrs. Frisch's letter did not indicate 9 whether a son or daughter was born, but I in­ferred that all went well on that score. Classmates 
SENIOR CITIZEN CENTER, project of Holy Cross Parish Christian Family iVIovenicnt under chairmanship of Ruth and Ralph Myers, '53, this summer in South Bend, is inspected (I.-r.) by the director, Mrs. A^es Monahan; the pastor. Rev. Walter Higgins, C.S.C.; and the first president couple, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Nicbaucr. Ralph kibitzes below. 
may address her at Box 93, Walker, Minn. 
DR. CURRAN and I had an enjoyable visit on campus on the Sunday morning of tlie 1961 Com­mencement which he attended to see his nephew and namesake, KEVIN CURR.\N, '61, graduate. This was tiie first and only time wc saw each other since our own graduation, and I think it was his only visit on campus since 1923. I heard from him a few times thereafter by mail, and Acapulco, Mexico, seemed to be his favorite spot. In Starch of this year, DR. E. J. CURR^\N, father of KEVIN 
E. '23, an intcmalionally-known ophthalmologist, died in Kansas City. On our visit last year much was said of the family heritage of ophthalmolog>* whicli included E. J., the founder, our own Kevin, and the nephew Kevin, who has entered into medi­cal school on a career in the same sprcialiy. On April 9, Kcrin of '23. while again \-acationing in Acapulco, died after a heart attack. He was 60 years old. 
TOM LIEB, internationally known discus-thrower in the Paris Olympics of 1924, nationally-famous assistant to Rocknc, and later head coach at Loyola of Los Angeles, had retired to a more private life in recent years, and at the time of his death, was teaching in a L.A. high school as recently as December. At that time he wrote to mc: "I spent a month in the hospital here with a 'coronary somrthing* but am fine now and back on the job teaching science and math. . . . It's easier than coaching." Four months later the "coronary something" finished him off. At this writing have only the newspaper clippings from which to draw my information, but I am writing his be­reaved family. Hts last address was 4922 West Blvd., Los Angeles 43, California. 
.Mrs. Gertrude Dacy, wife of MAURICE J. 
DACY, whose illness u-as pre\'iously reported, died 
a few weeks ago. Maurice was in town, recently 
and we had lunch with LEO P. RIEDER, South 
Bend barrister. Maurie has no children and has 
been doing a bit of traveling during his difficult 
period of adjustment. 
Speaking of traveling, our champion traveler of 
the moment is JOHN P. CHAPLA, who with his 
wife, journeyed to Japan in April on an extended 
business trip. John is one of a group of four 
security analysts of the Cleveland area making up 
a national group of 80 similar specialists from this 
countr>% who are the guests of Japanese industrial­
ists seeking an economic rapport with .American 
capital. Japanese economy, it appears, is mush­
rooming and needs foreign support. John was In 
to see me before taking ofT for Nippon and showed 
mc several clippings from papers in Lorain and 
Cleveland, In which John was extolled for his 
projected trip and his Chamber of Commerce 
activities in behalf of the Lake Erie port of Lorain, 
of which he Is Port Commission Chairman. John 
lias a daughter at St. Mary's Academy here, and 
when he was here, I met his wife and daughter. 
He's a fireball when he talks about Lorain and 
the Japanese junket. Tlie keynote of his Japa­
nese thesis is: Tlie U.S. needs Japan as Its Far 
East bastion against Communism, and we'd better 
help them along in cver>' way possible, John's way 
being financial analysis and security-selling. 
From the Alumni Office: 
REV. ED.MUND P. JOYCE, CS.a , executive vice-president of the University, attended the funeral of TOM LIEB in Los Angeles. The press reaction to Licb's death was so overwhelming that ver\- little of h could be reprinted here. TIic Alumni Office Is turning over a particularly beau­tiful sports writer's eulog>* of Tom to LOUIS BRUGGNER so that Lou can send it to the Class In one of his '23 newsletters. 
HARRY FL.\NNERY is getting some very fine reviews on his book, "Patterns for Peace." The Secretary's ofTer to provide autographed copies to classmates at the regular retail price apparently still stands. 
Columnist Weslbrook Pegler recently devoted an entire column to quotes from remarks by CLIFF WARD, editor of the Fort Wayne News-Scntinel, in his column, "Good Evening." Tlie column dealt with attacks on Barr>' Goldwater, Herbert Hoover and other famous conser\'atIves. 
FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH got a lot of newspaper space when he celebrated a prl\-atc Easter Mass for President Kennedy's family in Palm Beach, Fla. Congratulations to Father John on his new obedience as director of religious affairs at the University. 
STx\N BRADBURY suffered a heart attack early in the year, and his brother, BILL BRADBURY, '16, took over his duties as state's attorney of Crawford County, III., by special appointment as assistant state's attorney. Best wishes to Stan for a quick recovery from the heart condition. Ap­parently his celebrated criminal cases in Robinson, 111., have taken their toll. 
Speaking of the law, JUDGE JOSEPH N'YIKOS has had some lough cases in St. Joseph County, Ind., including the commital of a boy indicted for the slaying of his mother. 
Best wishes of the class to REV. LEO R. W.ARD, C.S.C., on his retirement from the philosophy faculty of the University. Father Leo looks as If he could teach for another 40 years, and Notre Dame will probably have much for him to do. 
1924 
James R. Mechan 301S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Ind. 
From the Alumni Ofiice: 
JUDGE MARK NOLAN of Duluth, Minn., got a glowing profile entitled "Color in Court" from the Duluth News-Tribune on the occasion of his 2Jth anniversary on the bench. Excerpts: **A murder trial marks a silver anniversary . . . for one of Minnesota's more colorful jurists. .. . When Judge Nolan bangs his gavel .. . he will be 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 55 

CLEVELAND — Among the head tabic personalities for the Clevdand Club's annual Rocknc Communion Breakfast in April were (l.-r.): Leo Burby, H2, chairman; Rev. Thomas Brcnnan, CS.C, guest speaker; Dan Du£fy, '21, toastmastcr; Rev. Bernard A1 Blatt, '31, chaplain and pastor of Immaculate Conception Parish; and Robert E. Dowd, *41, 
president; (at right) 1961 Man of the Year Jim Colleran and 1962 winner Frank Payne. 
obscmng his 25th anniversary*. . . . Interestingly, one of the first cases he tried when he became a judge in 1937 was a murder trial. . . . (This case) will be much calmer, a fact which is all right with Judge Nolan, who has had his share of the sensational ones. . . . Looking back over the years. Judge Nolan recently reminisced about his days as a representative in tlte state legislature. . . . 
" 'I guess I was what you would call a flaming liberal in those days,' he commented. *l'm still liberal, but being in a non-partisan post lias strictly limited my political acti\-ity.' .. . He was on the Notre Dame faculty for a year after graduation, then returned to the Iron Range to practice law and run for the state legislature — of \vhich he was the youngest member — in 1928. .. . By 1936 Judge Nolan had achieved sufficient stature as a politician and legislator lo be offered the lieutenant governorship. . . . He turned it down, howc\-cr, in favor of running for a district court judgeship 'because one hadn't been elected here since 1898, before I was bom.' 
" 'The practice,' he noted, 'had been for judges to resign or die in office so tliat the governor — who somehow alwaj's seemed to be a conservative — could appoint a successor. I decided it was about time the people elected a judge' He led the ticket in the 1936 race — as he has in every election since then — and became tlie youngest district court judge in the state. 
"Judge Nolan Iiad anotlier opportunity to return to the political wars in 1944 when the Democratic National Committee tried to interest him in run­ning for Congress. . . . 'The assistant national chairman was on the plione and my wife was in the kitclien crying. I turned it down,' he commented. 'I had four children and the security of a two year position didn't appeal lo me.' . . . Over the years Judge Nolan has become a favorite among district court jurors because of his easy-going manner and his unexpected bluntncss and witty comments. . . . Author Sinclair Lewis, who became an intimate friend of the judge while residing in Duluth during World War II, wrote of him: 'He is almost a fictional Irishman, lox-able, a fighter, a dreamer, a hell-raiser .. . yet a learned and good judge . . . called by his first name by almost every­one from clerk of court to the man running the beer truck up the North Shore . . . witty, blas­phemous, frightfully on to cverj'thing; completely a Good Fellow and, I rather suspect, completely honest and rigidly just.' . . . Judge Nolan said, 'I think tlie reason I got along with Lci\'is is that I never catered to him.* .. . As for the fact that he is called 'Mark' more often than 'Judge,* he disagrees with the theory that familiarity breeds contempt. 'I like to think people call me by my first name because tlicy like me, and besides when I am off the bench I am just another human being.' 
*'Those who work with him day in and day out say one of his main attributes is a keen sense of fairness and a high level of tolerance for tlie mis­takes of others. .. . It probably A*-as this concern with being fair and not making a mistake in sentencing a man which prompted him some years ago to start the practice of having the county probation office make pre-sentence investigations. 
56 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
. . . Today the pre-srntciicc investigation is widely used by all judges." 
Congratulations to MARK NOLAN for such testimonials to his judicial career. Congratulations also to a summer school classmate, SISTER M. ANN ELIZABETH, C.S.C., of Dunbarton College, Washington, D.C., (Ph.B. '24, M.S. '30) for her appearance as a leading teacher of chemistry on the ABC-TV scries, "Meet the Professor," last April 29. Sister is chairman of the chemistr>­department at Dunbarton, a former high scliool principal and one of the few women admitted to the AEC Institute of Nuclear Studies at Oak Ridge, Tcnn. Her list of academic pedigrees would put most male contemporaries to shame. 
1925 
John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
Just bits of news from here and there about the class of 1925. While visiting my daughter and son-in-law, the Mike Under^voods, in Davenport I had a cliance to talk to "HANK** WURZER. "Hank" is in good heallli and was having a grand time at Easter with his family all home from school and the married ones there with their children. 
The WALTER HALLS of Minneapolis, who usually spend some time in Arizona, are heading West this year and will take in the Fair in Seattle. 
I told some friends of mine from Toledo who had been transferred to Manila to look up TONY GONZALES, but for the moment Tony is on the move. He and his wife arc in San Francisco \-isiting their son for a few weeks, and then they are flying to Europe the first of May and will be returning to Manila In July. 
When the JOHN HURLEYS were coming home from Davenport we got off the "beaten palh" and were in Dixon, Illinois, but I was unable to con­tact BOB DIXON. Bob has been with the legal dept. of FDIC in Washington for 25 years, and I hear that he is taking things easy and moving out to Tucson this summer. He spent a few months out there last year and got to like it. Speaking of Tucson, PAUL DUFAUD "The Job of our class," went into the hospital for something minor and ended up with a major, removing three ribs, a kidney and some trimmings. He writes that recovery was slow but is doing all right and feels quite good. He is having a six-month checkup. Say a prayer for Paul that this last operation will have cleared things up for many years to come. He has experienced more illness than the entire class, and he always comes up with a smile and a thankful prayer for his blessings .. . his won­derful wife and family. PAUL DUFAUD would ^ like the address of JUSTIN "GAM" TOOMEY of St. Paul. I have 1406 W. California St., St. Paul, but I understand he was transferred. He is with the Butler Bros. Construction Co., of St. Paul 
5: U.S.A. If any of you 25ers have his address drop PAUL DUFAUD a line at 1911 East Second St., Tucson, .-Vrizona. Even if you don't have Tfwmey's address . . . drop Paul a line. Paul has been on the sidelines since the winter of '37-'38, but he and his wife have done an inspirational job with their family, one son having received seven offers for college sdiolarships . . . for brains ­not brawn. He was quite an athlete also .. . a swimmer and basketball star. The Dufauds' other child, a daughter, was a nurse for a short lime and is now the mother of five or more, because as of this moment Paul has nine and by the time ^ you read this, there will be eleven. It must be W that climate out there, Paul. I started this with Wurzer and I will end with Wurzcr. Remember the Mass Fund and the Foundation. GIL SCHAEF­FER pays $20,000 if we raise $30,000! 
From the Alumni Office: 
HARRY STUHLDREHER was more welcome than ever at the Monogram Club and Class Re­unions in June, for Harr>* was an official repre­sentative of U.S. Steel's Roger Blough in bringing tidings of a $100,000 grant in recognition of the Notre Dame effort to become a great university. 
Congratulations to CL.ARENCE W. R\RDING, public relations director of the South Bend Tribune, on his appointment as cliairman of the newspaper 0 ) information service committee of the American Newspaper Publishers Association. 
1926 
Frank A. Dcitle 1763 Kcssler Blvd. South Bend 16, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTR.\.\T REV. THOM.\S J. MORRISON. g 

The deadline is here but my best source of in­formation is not. RUDY GOEPFRICH has been in Japan since the first of April representing the Automotive Division of tlic Bendbc Corporation. I am sure that when he returns if there arc any of our class between here and tlic far borders of Japan, they will have been contacted. 
A note from Rudy before he left saying he had talked to BILL DEFFERARI in Dallas. Bill is the Hiram Walker distributor there. 
FATHER ED MASSERT, C.S.C., is assisting at g, Holy Cross parish in South Bend after over 20 ^ years as a missionary* in East Pakistan. 
DENNIS O'NEILL has opened lus own ad­

^vcrtising agency in Cleveland. Thought I would see him in Cleveland before this writing but time has no respect for intentions. 

Another member of our class has departed from our ranks. JOE HEMPHLING died March 16 of this year. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Death's toll has been heavy in recent months. Besides the reported passing of South Bend's JOE HEMPHLING, Chicago's JOHN O'HERN TUOHY and (announced a year late) Las Vegas' URBAN SLMON, there came the death of coach TOM LIEB, *23, who took his ^f..^. with the Class. Prayers arc requested for these men. 
\ Continuing prayers would also be appreciated 
.^b y Professor JIM WITHEY, whom illness pre­vented from attending a facultv dinner held bv FATHER HESBURGH honoring Jim's retirement after a distinguished career as a teacher of English, journalism and communication arts. 
A card from Tokyo depicting the Great Buddha at Kamakura told us that RUDY GOEPFRICH had visited Ueno Park, "where 100,000 Japanese were celebrating the Cherry Blossom Festival. They celebrate that here like we do New Year at home. Plenty of sake (rice wine) Is consumed." Wc hope Rudy watches the sake for his own sake. 
JAMES M. PE/\RSOX has a new law firm name, Pearson and Tatham, in the Citizens Bank BIdg., Flint, Mich., and a new home address, 3501 Mackin Road, Flint 4. For the benefit of classmate­
^ clients the telephone is CE 5-0202. 
9 Finally, congratulations to J. VINCENT SOIS­SON on his election as vice president of West Pcnn Power company in charge of marketing. Vincc continues to administer West Penn's advertising, promotion, development, market research and sales, OS he had as director of marketing. In Greensburg, Pa., he also continues his actinty in the Chamber of Commerce, Community Chest, Bov Scouts, Rotar>% Kiwanis and hospital boards. And to Judge and Mrs. JOSEPH PETER FRISKE on tlic ordination and First Mass oE their son, Rev. Joseph P. Friske, on the first week end of June in Saginaw, Mich. 
1927 
Clarence J. Ruddy 
32 S. River Street 
Aurora, Illinois 

REUNION REGISTR,\NTS E.MMETT I. BARRON, EDWIN A. BERKERY, SEBASTIAN T. BERNER, ELMER W. BESTEN, HARRV M. BIEDKA, WILLIAM O. BR,\NDEN­
BURG, EUGENE F. BRENNAN, JOHN P. BUT­
• 
LER, WILLUM S. AATE, PHILIP J. CLARKE, WILLIAM R. CLARKE, JR., M.AURICE COHEN, LAWRENCE E. CROWLEY, JOSEPH CUTTS, JOHN A. DAILEY, WILLIAM J. DEGNEN, SR., JOSEPH P. DELLA MARIA, GEORGE W. DOHERTY, WILLIA.M DOTTERWEICH, ALBERT 

L.
 DOYLE, ROBERT P. DOYLE, THONLAS B. DUNN, BERNARD EPSTEIN, VICTOR H. FALL, MARC A. FIEHRER, ANDREW N. GALONE, JOSEPH A. GARTLAND, JR., JOHN D. GEARY, JOH.\ M. GLASKA, JOHN E. GRUXING, JOHN 

J.
 HALPIN, RICHARD L. HALPIN, M. ALBERT HENRY, LEO J. HERBERT, WILLIAM M. HOLLAND, JR., JOHN HOWARD, ROBERT IR.MIGER, WILLIAM D. K.AV;\.N.VUGH, THOM­AS F. KENNY, JR., EUGE.\E C. KNOBLOCK, REGIS LAVELLE, ST.ANLEY J. LECHOWICK, CLAYTON LEROUX, HE.VRY G. LCSTRANGE, RICHARD J. LYNCH, HAROLD T. .MCCABE, ^WILLIAM .MCCULLOUGH, JAMES P. MCFAR­


^LAXE , EDWARD F. MCKENNA, EDWARD J. MCLAUGHLIN, VINCENT A. .MCNALLY, CHARLES W. MARTIN, CVRL A. M.ATTHES, EDWARD J. MAYER, ALOYSIUS MILLER, FRANCIS E. .MORAN, REV. JA.MES J. MORAN, ED J. MULLEN, GEORGE C. MULLEN, THOM­AS E. N.ASH, JOHN J. NYIKOS, FR.-\NK B. OBARSKI, HARRY W. O'BOYLE, THO.MAS E. O'CONNOR, JAMES T. QUINN, JOHN REIDY, 
C. F. REGAN, JR., ER.MIN E. REICHERT, FC STEPHEN H. RONAY, CLARENCE J. RUDDY, 
•
 EDWIN L. RYAN, REV. HARRY RYAN, JERO.ME 

J.
 SECHOWSKI, J.AMES L. SHEERIN, PATRICK 


F. SIZE, .M. ALBAN SMITH, RICHARD SMITH, HORACE SPILLER, ROBERT D. STEPHAN, LUTHER SWYGERT, GEORGE THO.MAS, WIL­LUM TRAVIS, JOHN J. WALLACE, VAN WALLACE, ERNEST J. WILHELM, DONALD 
J. OTLKINS, JAMES G. WING. 
From the Alumni Office: Secrctil^^• CLARENCE RUDDY will have a com­plete rundown on the highly successful Class of '27 reunion in the next issue. Meanwhile, besides mourning the rcccntlv reported deaths of ED MORIARTY, BILL SULLIV.\.N and BAILEY WALSH (sympathy to their sur\-ivors), the Class could exult that CARL .M.VTTHES, comptroller of the Bendix Products Division of Bendlx Corp. since IW2, has been appointed executive assistant for financial afTairs in charge of several Bendix divisions and subsidiaries. NORB SKELLEY, who is "listed with the Class of 1925 but really a member of the Class of '27," sent his regrets from Salina, Kansas, at not being able to be aboard at the reunion. .And WILLIAM 
D. KAVANAUGH, Washington manager of Amer­ican Cyanamid and the D.C. Foundation chairman, won a second X.D. Man of the Year citation from the N.D. Club of U'ashington. Bill took his first award in 1954. The Ka\-anaughs have four sons, the oldest, Dick, being a student at Xotre Dame. 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley 68-10 108th Street Forest Hills 75, N.Y. 
REUNIO.V REGISTRANTS WILLIAM DAILY, C. G. TOPPING. 
Two of our medics. DR. RICRARD WEHS and DR. WILLUM .McGEE, and FRED RUIZ died since I submitted class notes for the last issue. 
HENRY DAVIS and DR. FRANK HEGART\* advised mc of the death of DR. DICK J. WEHS on February* 19 in veterans Hospital at Binning-Iiam, Alabama, where he was on the medical staff. Dick was graduated from Johns Hopkins Medical School. From 1946 until 1960, he was a physician for the Dupont Company in .-Mkcn, South Carolina. Dick was always interested in the Class and re­turned for our 25th reunion. He is survived by his mother. JOHN BERSCHEID visited Dick several months ago when he was ill. 
DR. BILL McGEE died March 19, 1962 in Daly City, California after a long illness. Bill was a graduate of St. Louis Medical School. He prac­ticed medicine in North Dakota for a nun^ r of 
years. He is survived by his wife, a son and a 
daughter. Bill and his wife attended our '28 cock­
tail party in 1960. 
FRED RUIZ died February 7 in La Jolla, New 
Mexico, where he had taught English and Spanish 
at La Jolla High ScJiooI. Fred received his la%v 
degree in 1928 and taught at Notre Dame for three 

yean. He is survived by hts wife and three 
children. 
FATHER ANDY MULRE-ANY, C.S.C., has offered Masses for these classmates at the request of the Class. Please remember them in your prayers. I will miss their prompt responses to my requests for news. Each was a devoted member of the Class. 
April 4th was Class of '28 day before the Senate Judiciary Committee. The Presidential appoint­ments were approved that day of BILL JONES to the U.S. District Court in Washington, D.C, and GEORGE BEAMER to the U.S. District Court for Northern Indiana where he \%'tll join another '28 man, JUDGE ROBERT A. GRANT, on the District Court bench. Although GEORGE BEAMER re­ceived his law degree in 1929, he started with us in 1924 and is always active in the '28 reunions. BILL JONES was praised at the hearing by two old friends from hts days in Montana in the I930's, Majority Leader Mike Mansfield and Senator Lee Mctcalf, both of Montana. BILL JONES had been a trial attorney and a partner for 16 years in Hamilton & Hamilton law firm in D.C. GEORGE BEAMER had ser\*ed as Indiana attorney general and as Chairman of the Public Service Commission of Indiana. Congratulations Bill and George. 
Your Class Secretary* has been appointed Regional .Administrator, Bureau of Employment Security, 
U.S. Department of Labor, for Ne%*' York, New Jersey, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands with headquarters in New York City. 
I u-as pleased to see DR. DAN BRADLEY at a meeting of the Notre Dame Club, Long Island Dix'ision, where I spoke on interracial justice in March. Dan is active in our Catholic Interracial Council in New York. 
In reading the January 15, 1962 issue of the magazine "Steel," I noticed a picture of FRANK 
J. DONOVAN, president, Kayden Engineering Cor­poration, Muskegon, Michigan. It was an excellent account of how Frank resolved, with the aid of union leaders, a problem of low productivity and high costs. Frank has three children and three grandchildren. A friend from Muskegon reports that Frank is also very active in Muskegon groups including the Board of Mercy Hospital of which he is Chairman. 
I had a number of letters from classmates refer­ring to a quotation of mine in the March Reader's Digest including one from VINCE CARNEY from the law office of DENNY DALY in St. Paul where Vince has been visiting his daughter at St. Catherine College. 
While on speaking assigimients in Buffalo, I talked to MARTY RYAN and BILL DOWD.\LL and GUS JENKINS. Marty is still single. Gus is semi-retired and teaches a few high school classes. 
TRI-CITIES — Principals of the Tri- (or Quad-) City Notre Dame N^ht in Davenport, Iowa, included (from left) Jerry Culligan, retiring president of the Qub; Jack Bush, newly elected president; Rev. Francis O. Nealy, O.P,, Notre Dame professor of theology, guest speaker; and Notre Dame Man of the Year J. Ralph Coryn, '22. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 57 
JOHN V. HINKEL, '29 For an Old Soldier, a Busy Retirement 

Early this year John Hinkel, veteran Washington public relations consultant, was appointed director of the newly opened office of Kelly-Sanders, Inc., St. Louis pub­lic relations firm, in the National Press Bldg., Washington, D.C. 
Col. Hinkel capped his N.D. degree with graduate work at the Columbia School of Journalism. Prominent in Washington's mili­tary, ciWc and patriotic groups, he retired mandatorily as colonel in Militar\' Intelli­gence in 1960, having started as a prix'ate more than 30 years ago, before action on a recommended promotion to resene briga­dier. Last September he was honored at its 
He has 3 daughter at D'You\-ilIe College, and mar­ried sons in Soutli Bend and Kalamazoo. Gus saw LEO McIN*T\'RE at the S>Tacusc-Xotre Dame game. BILL DOWDALL, of the Federal Market Company, advised that he expected to see MERV. AGGELER (Superior Court Judge) and Doctor JOHN GOCKE in Los Angeles in May. 
Our Treasurer, TOM H.\RT, lias been ill with a 

serious case of pneumonia. 
FATHER ANDY MULREANY, C.S.C., St. Pius X Rcctorj-, 52553 Fir Road, Granger, Indiana, celebrated his 25th anniversarv* of ordination in June. Congratulations, Father .^dy. We ap­preciate the good work Father has done as Chair­man of our recent reunions and the interest he has shown in the Class for many years. Nfany widows of *28 men have told me how much thc>* appreciated the letters received from Father Andy St the time of the deaths of their husbands. If you haven't already done so, please drop Father Andy a note on this happy occasion. 
I was pleased to participate in two ver\* success­ful Xotrc Dame Universitv conferences arranged by FATHER MARK FITZGERALD, C.S.C, Ute Labor-Management Conference in Februar\- and the Symposium on "Mater et Magistra'* in May. Our classmate, BILL BROWN, Assistant General At-tome>', Allis-Chalmers Company, Milv\-aukee, spoke on the same panel with mc at the May meeting. 
On Universal Notre Dame Night in New York, I joined the following '28 men at a table: JOHN ANTUS, BERNIE GARBER, LARRY CULLINEY and DR. DAN BRADLEY, You should have seen JOHN ANTUS do the "twist." John and Bemic have sons at Notre Dame. LARRY CULLINEY, who came in from North Haven, Connecticut, mentions that in his travels as a Federal bank 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
annual convention by the Association of the 
U. S. Army for his "outstanding contribu­tions to the Army." The citation said that "as a recognized historian whose articles in magazines and newspapers have received wide circulation" he had been "tireless in informing the public of the aims, ideals and desire for sen'ice which have motivated the Army." At retirement his certificate of achievement from the Department of the Army stated that he "unhesitatingly gave his knowledge and sacrificed time" for proj­ects enhancing .Army prestige, and "as a special advisor to successive Chiefs of In­formation . . . assisted in soh-ing problems of a most sensitive nature." 
John has been president since 1959 of the Society of Natives of the District of Colum­bia: xice-president of the Washington chap­ter. Association of the U. S. Army; past president of the D. C. Dept, Rcscr\-e Officers Assn. Chairmanships include: Armed Forces Committee, Metropolitan Washington Board of Trade; Defense Strategy Seminars, .A..U.S.A.. Washington; Citizenship Day, D.C, 1960-61; former chairman. Armed Forces Reserve Training Committee; former \-ice-chairman. National Public Relations, VFW. He is a trustee of Washington's CYO and Religious Heritage of America; director of N.C.C.J. in Washington, and a former director of the Urban League and Bureau of Rehabilitation. A lecturer on public re­lations since 1951, he is active in the Colum­bia Historical Society. National Press Club, Overseas Press Club and the Public Rela­tions Society of .America. 
A former reporter on the news staffs of the Washington Post and New York Times, John was a foreign correspondent for the Times and other papers in 1938, covering the Spanish Civil War, the Austrian Ansch­luss and other European news events. Dur­ing World War H he served in Africa, Italy and Austria in Militarj' Intelligence. He was director of public information at Notre Dame from 1945 to 1948. 
examiner, he sees CLINTON RYAN *26 who is in the feed store business in Milton, Vermont and FRANCIS CANNON '27, an attorney in Rutland, Vermont. 
Plan to attend our seventh '28 Class cocktail party with your wife, children and friends after the Michigan State game on October 20, 1962, in the basement of O'SIiaiighncssy Hall on the campus. 
From the Alumni Office: 

The office has been swamped with letters, press releases and newspaper clippings about two mem­bers of the Clas^ of '28 and their new federal appointments. 
Secretary LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, since bis ap­pointment as Regional Director of the Labor De­partment's Bureau of Emplov-ment Security, has seemed to increase the breakneck tempo of speeches, conferences and publications that he has kept for the past year or two as New York Regional Di­rector of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Including New York, New Jersey, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, Lou's region is the largest of all, both in population and labor force covered by the depart­ment. Since this latest promotion he has: pre­sented a paper on **Social Insurance" at Notre Dame's May 5 s>-mposium on the cnc>'clical **Matcr ct Magistra" of Pope John XXIII; addressed the May 11 closing exercises of the Poppenhusen Insti­tute, College Point, X. Y., on "Education and Training — Tlic Key to the Job Frontiers of the 1960V* (adult education); been quoted on his N.D. presentation in the May 12 America magazine; published a comprehensive article on "Jobs and Industry growth in the Current Decade" in the May 17 Commercial and Financial Chronicle; been quoted in turn by Sylvia Porter in her syndicated 
"Your Dollar" column of May 23 ("Don't drop out of scliool, kid!") and by Wisconsin's Scnatoi Alexander Wiley in the Congressional Record oi June 5. 
The other subject of the mall deluge was tlic Honorable WILLIAM BLAKELY JONES, whose appointment to the Federal Bench of the District of Columbia and subsequent confirmation coincided with similar appointments and conBrmations for GEORGE BE/VMER, '29, and STEPHEN ROTH, '31. 
Des Moines Banker HAROLD KLEIN, '26, wrote his classmate ART HALEY about a "letter from LAURENCE WINGERTER, whom you may re­member. Larrv' at one time was with the Des Moines Transit Company, and until three years ago was president of the San Antonio Transit Company. Wlicn that operation was sold to the City of San .Antonio he became president of Red Arrow Freighl Lines, a common carrier in the state of Texas. He seems to be getting along quite well." 
1929 
Larry Stauder 
Engineering Bldg. 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
REUNIO.V REGISTRANT GAYLORD P. HA.\S. 
J. TERRY PLUNKETT, AB '59, AM '62. son of DON PLUNKETT, illustrious past 5icretar\- of our Class, will be at the University of Minne.'-ota next fall as a teaching fellow. He will be con­tinuing work for a doctorate in English. Terr>' will be remembered for, among other reasons, his able assistance at our 25th and other Class reunions. His sister Coleen and JOSEPH DORRYCOTT. '62, an AI.S. graduate in Engineering, have selected June 30 as their wedding day. Younger sister Pats\' will be a senior at St. Joseph's High School, South Bend, where she is a strong candidate for lop class offices and responsibilities. One of her close friends and classmates is the daughter of JOE L.AUBER. We compliment Dorothy, who Is at present employed tn the Courthouse, on her fine familv and we share her pride in their progress. 
JOSEPH P. McN.\MARA, also a former secre­tary- of the Class of '29. was recently elected vice president of the National Distillers and Chemical Corp. This firm merged with Bridgeport Brass in July, 1961. Joe joined the legal department of Bridgeport Brass In 1946 and had advanced to vice president of personnel (1959) and now vice president of labor relations for National. Prior to 1946 Joe spent four years with Army Ordinance Corps where he held the rank of colonel. A native of India­napolis, he ser\'ed as deputy attorney general forj Indiana from 1933 to 1942. Joe Is a Fourth Degree 
K. of C . Is a director of the New England Council, the Notre Dame Law ^Vssnciatlon and is otherwise actix'c in civic affairs. He and bis wife reside at Pine Tree Comer, Monroe, Connecticut. 
Another illustrious LL.B.. '29 is GEORGE N. BEAMER, SR., of South Bend, recently installed federal district judge for Northern Indiana. George took the oath of office from his attorney son, George N. Beamcr, Jr., In the presence of the judge's wife. 
HARLEY L. McDEVITT has been named ad­vertising manager of the National Geographic Magazine. Harlcy joined the magazine in 1934. He became automotive manager In 1953, and Eastern advertising manager in 1959. His bead-quarters will be at 630 Fifth Avenue, New York City. Harley, a graduate of the College of Com­merce, served In World War II as a Na\T Lieuten­ant Commander. He lives in Montclair, New Jersey. ' 
A fellow pupil of Brother Cyp, BILL SIDEN­FADEN, of Los Angeles, is now a director of Pendleton Tool Industries. Inc. "Sid" is presi­dent, a director and a founder of Suburban Gas, one of the nation's leading and largest distribu­tors of LP Gas. A native of Boise, Idaho, "Sid" and family live in Arcadia, Catifomia. If they arc reading this and haven't heard recently from neph­ew OSCAR SIDENFADEN, a present sophomore at Notre Dame, your secretary informs them that Oscar is a recent convert to electrical engineering. He is transferring from chemistry. Oscar's dad, also Oscar, deceased, was, according to RAY 

f
SCHUBMEHL, '21, the genius of the E.E. class k 1921. 
Another E.E. who has made the news releases is EDMUND C. DcBAENE, who has been promoted at the Detroit Edison Co. to the post of under­ground standards engineer. Ed joined Edison upon graduation in *29 and has held a variety of posi­tions in research, employee relations and in general engineering. He is a Registered Professional Engi­neer, as well as AIEE, the Engineering Society of Detroit and ASA. His committee work with the International Electro-technical Commission and Edison Electric Institute has been extensive. He and wife Eleanor reside at 14384 Staheliu. Son TED DeBAENE, '61, is beginning his career in civil engineering. 
-TV Your secretar>', Mrs. Stauder and son Larr>'. 
'jPivho will be a Notre Dame frcsliman in September, recently attended the establishment ceremonies of Eta Kappa Xu, the honor society for electrical engineers. Notre Dame is now the Delta Sigma cliapter, and the E.E. seniors and alumni who qualify arc eligible for membership. We are gratified that this privilege is no longer denied our alumni. Among the 37 who have already availed themselves of membership arc ART DIEDRICH, '23; LARRY STAUDER, '29; and BOB HOLMES, '30. Our College of Engineering also has a chap­ter of Tau Beta Pi, the honor society of engi­neering. Inquiries are welcomed with regard to membcnihip of '29crs or others, in these two societies. 
'Fro m the .Mumni Office: 
Pray for MOTHER MARY VERA, S.N.D., a grad school classmate who died in Rome last April 13. 
Following is a delayed news stor\- from NCWC News on a Cleveland classmate; 
S.AGINAW, Mich., April 14 (NC)—.Accent on positive measures to strengthen the nation was recommended as the best way to halt communism by an engineer who spent two years in Russia super\'ising construction of a steel plant. 
"Concentrate less on denunciation and more on gi\ing active leadership. Do your part in making this a better nation and we need not fear what communism can do to us," declared KARL MAR­TERSTECK of Cleveland in an address here. 
Martcrsteck is an executive of a dredge and 

kdock company and one of the national directors of the Xotrc Dame Foundation. He worked in Russia in the 1930*s. 
In his talk to the local Serra Club, Martcrsteck urged as a basic philosophy for the Western world the commandment of Christ on love of neighbor. He warned against judging the appeal of commu­nism by the character of the actions of its leaders. 
*'Go to the young communists," lie said. "They see in communism a means of bringing the better things of life to the people who have been denied them for centuries." 
^(artersteck strongly recommended the reading of the new booklet "Communism: Threat to Free­dom," by Father John F. Croiiin, S.S.. of the 
hSocial Action Department of the National Catho­lic Welfare Conference. 
1930 
Dcvcrc Plunkctt 
O^Shaughncssy Hall 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

» 
From the Alumni Office: The New York Athlete Club recently honored JOSEPH J. LORD! with a testimonial dinner after three terms as president of that venerable institu­tion, during which time it was almost taken over by the Irish as a campus away from home. Among the alumni in attendance were: FRANK KIVL^VN, '04; GENE T. CONNELLY, '32; ROBERT J. FINK and DON RILEY, '52; JOHN P. .MOONEY, THONLVS G. RYDER and BERNARD J. Mc-DERMOTT, JR., '53; and WILLIAM SHEA, '59. The oflice received an announcement of the April marriage of Pat Winkler and Richard Browne from Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE F. WINKLER, 
» 
Rockville Centre, N. Y. President FRAN MESSICK devoted the 23rd annual meeting of his St. Joseph Valley Sales and 
JIM McQUAID, *31, Vincennes University 
bookstore proprietor (right), presents the 10th annual McQuaid Trophy to varsity athlete Ron Russell at the annual Civitan Club dinner for the Trailblazers. The trophy honors the athlete with highest scholastic record. Jim coached before a disabling sports accident. 
Advertising Club at the Morris Inn to a history and portrait of the O'Brien Corp., one of South Bend's oldest manufacturers and practically an alumni-operated business. .-Vmong representatives of the famed paint manufacturer were: president JERRY CROWLEY, '31: Advertising Manager HARRY KOEHLER, '37; and Basic Research Di­rector TOM MIR.\NDA, '59. 
Lt. Col. LEO V. SCHI.WONE put in his active duty in the spring with the information section at Fifth Army headquarters. Leo is in his 20th year with the army and attached to a Chicago Re5er\'c Information unit. A P.O.W. intelligence officer during W. W. II. he is now a claims attorney for Chicago's Zurich-American Insurance Co. Leo and Gertrude have a son, David, at N.D. and a daughter In prep school. 
PHILIP DiGIORGIO, executive vice-president of California's prospering DiGiorgio Fruit Co., Is now president of the San Francisco Chamber of Com­merce. Phil was the subject of an extensive "Bay Area Profile" in the Daily Commercial News, called to our attention by FATHER ED KELLER, which we'd like to quote extensively in a forth­coming feature. 
Lucky arc the classmates who arc getting ''Lang­ford's lines" In El Plscorino, Santiago newsletter of the Chilean Peace Corps under the direction of WALTER L/\NGFORD. It's a warm and witty compendium of chatter covering ever>'thing from agricultural techniques to baseball roundups, and It should keep the young Peace Corps volunteers feeling very much at home. 
FRANCIS P. CREADON, Sr., '28, and Francis "Pat" Creadon, '60, both of Riverside, III., sing side by side with Chicago's Paulist Choristers, famed choir founded in 1901 by the late Rev. William Finn, C.S.P., LL.D., '14. (See obituaries.) 
1931 
James T. Doyle 902 Oakton Street Evanston, minois 
From the Alumni Office: Election of R.\Y CONNORS, West Coast public relations director of MacManus, John & Adams, Inc.. as cliairman of the Advisory Board of Blount St. Mary's College for 1962-63 has been announced bv Sister Marj' Rebecca, president. HU Eminence JAMES FR.ANCIS CARDINAL MclN*TYRE, Archbishop of Los Angeles, (LL.D. '53), is honorary' chairman of the Mount's Ad­visor>' Board. Ray had previously been appointed to the board of trustees of Mount St. Mary's to assist in the development of the college. Marie, ^vlfe of JIM McQUAID, the genial coach-turncd-bookseller and Foundation chairman in Southern Indiana, wrote in April to report: *'This past week Jim presented his 10th Annual Trophy to an outstanding member of the varsity at Vincennes University. This year It was won by Ron Russell, of Vincennes, and was given at a banquet sponsored by the local Civitan Club for the team, known as the Trailblazers. 
"Jim started the award to prompt interest In the club when it was in its infancy In 1952, and through the years the boy has been selected who has shown outstanding scholastic ability first, and then athletic ability. Some of the boys are doctors, lawyers and coaches and, as Jim said the other evening at this presentation, 'these boys have made a name for themselves, not because they won the McQuaid Trophy, but because they had the quali­ties necessary to win.* " 
Pray for the repose of the soul of JOSEPH E. CANNY of Corning, New York, who died In the spring. Sincere sympathy to Joe's family, in­cluding his brother, P.AT CANNY, '28, of Cleve­land. 
1932 
James K. Collins 2982 Torrington Rd. Shaker Heights, Ohio 

REUNION REGISTRANTS NATH.AN D. ALT.MAN, GEORGE A. AREHART, GILBERT AUGUSTINE, HUGH E. BALL, JOHN 
W. B<\NNON, HARRY B. BEHRMAN, PAUL B. BELDEN, JR., LLOYD C. BELLA-NfY, JOHN 
J. BOGNAR, HARRY C. BURGER, RICRARD 
G. CANNON, JOSEPH H. CVREY, PAUL D. CLARK, JA.MES K. COLLINS, JOHN J. COL­LINS, EUGENE T. CONNELLY, ANTHONY J. CONTI, JOHN E. COX, EUGENE J. COYNE, NORBERT J. CROWE, GEORGE E. CULUNAN, JR., CHARLES DOERR, WILLIA-M P. DON­NINO, VINCENT J. DONOHUE, JOSEPH J. DUNN, LEONARD J. DUNN, FRANCIS R. ERNST, RICHARD E. FABRYCKI, JOHN J. GEDDES, RAY GEIGER, HERBERT P. GIORGIO, ANTHONY J. GIUFFRE, J. E.MMET GOR.MAN, ROBERT E. GORMAN, WLLIAM J. GORM.AN, FR-VNCIS X. GRAHAM, MOST REV. PAUL J. HALLINAN, D.D., EDWARD J. HART, ERNEST 
C. HECHINGER, WILLLAM L. HOG.AN, P.\UL 
A. HOWE, JOHN .M. KEANEY. HARRY F. KILBURGER, WILLIAM T. KIRBY, WALTER 
A. KOLBY, EDWIN T. KOLSKI, JOHN C. LITCHER, REV. CHARLES McCARRAGHER, C.S.C., FLORENCE J. McCARTHY, JR., .\NDREW F. McGUAN, THOMAS L. McKEVITT, FR,\NCIS M. .MARLEY, JOHN H. MULHERN, 
D. FRANK -MURNANE, FRANK L. MURRAY, CHARLES B. NASH, WILLIAM NEWBOLD, LEO NEWMAN, FRANCIS A. NORTON, JR., FRANCIS 
J. OELERICH, B.\RRY O'KEEFE, COL.MAN O'SHAUGHNESSY, EDWARD V. O'SULLIVAN, PAUL A. OTOOLE, CHARLES J. PETRETIC, JOSEPH PETRITZ, ^L\RNS POPE, CLIFFORD 
E. PRODEHL, CLAUDE L. ROSSITER, COR­NELIUS J. RUFFING, ALBERT J. RUSSO, DONALD T. RYAN, BENJAMIN B. SALVATY, LEO V. SCHIAVONE, RICHERT G. SCHNEIDER, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Augttst, 1962 59 
JAMES W. SIMMON'S, JOHN J. STAUNTON, ROBERT C. STREB, UALTER E. TERRY, G. CLE&fENS THEISEN, JOSEPH A. VASSALO, JOHN VOSS, CLINTON H. \VATSON, REV. JEROME ^VILSON, C.S.C., KEV. JOHN H. 
^HLSON, C^.C , ABRAHAM ZOSS. 

Tlicsc notes arc being written before the Class 
Reunion, so a complete report on the fcstinties of 
it will have to wait for the next issue of the 
ALUMNUS. However, for the ver>- few of you 
who did not get there, here is a few items of note. 
ARCHBISHOP PAUL HALLINAN was selected 
by the University to say the Mass and give the 
sermon for the Baccalaureate ceremonies of the 
graduating class. It is our understanding that this 
is the first time that an alumnus, who is a member 
of the Heirarcliy of the Churcli, has been so 
honored. The Archbishop was also an early regis­
trant for the reunion. 
Among others who wrote that Ihcy were coming 
%vcre: TONY CONTI, CLEM THEISEN, BILL 
HOGAN, IKE TERRY, JOHN MULHERN, TED 
HALMN, EMMET GORAUN, R.VY GEIGER, 
CLIFF PRODEHL, JOHN KE.\.\EY, TEX SLM­
MOSS, JOHN COS, MIKE .MOORE, HERB 
GIORGIO, FRAN OELRICH, JOHN LITCHER, 
GENE CONNELLY, RICH SCHNEIDER, ED 
KOLSKI. BILL KIRBY, PAUL DAILEY, WALT 
KOLBY, FRANK ALARLEV, FRANK NORTON, 
JOE PETRITZ, ANDY ^fcGUAX, LEN DUNN, 
CHUCK DOERR, JOE DUNN, TERRY DILLON, 
CLINT WATSON, CLAUDE ROSSITER, PETE 
STREB, REV. CHARLES McCARR.\GHER, 
C.S.C., CHARLEY PETRETIC, REV. JOHN 
UlLSON. CS.a , REV. JERRY WILSO.V,C.S.C., 
LEO SCHIAVONE, PAUL HO>VE, FRANK MIL­
LER, SMOKY COYNE, PAUL BELDEN, JOE 
KENN'Y, GABE MORAN, and HANK ASMAN. 
JIM WARD wTote that he could not be with us 
since his daughter was being married on the 19th 
but promised to be at the 35th Reunion. ED 
RHATIGAN also was unable to attend since his 
daughter was in the same wedding party. 
TOM DUFFY'S daughter Marv' graduated from 
the University of California on June 7 and was 
married to Mike Callahan on June 9 in San 
Francisco. These happy events prevented Tom from 
returning this year. 
FRANCIS ANDRAY writes from Arlington, Va., that two of hb boys were graduating on June 8 which kept him from the Reunion. He sent his best regards to the Class, and particularly to P.AUL BELDEN. JOHN HOCKWALT and FRANK O'MALLEY. 
JACK WTTTLIFF also has a son graduating that 
week end, so missed the Reunion on that account. 
His son Is entered in the University for the fall 
term. 
We vcr\- niucli regret that AL CULVER could not attend because of illness, as he would have added so much by his presence. Kindly remem­ber him in your prayers for a speedy recoverj*. 
We were very sorrj* to learn of the death of two members of the Class throu^ one of the mailings, and these were not previously reported. RAY McNALLY died on November 22, 1959 according to his sister. TOM GALBRE.\TH died Nov. 14, 1960, according to Mrs. Galbreath. Tom's son, Tom. Jr., was a member of the graduating class on the campus this year. 
AL McEACHERN has left the Goctz Brewer>­to become Vice President of the Pearl Brewing Co. He may be readied at Box 1661, San Antonio, Texas. 
JACK HAXflLTON, who has lived in almost every part of the world, is off again on another mbsioo. This time he gives his present address as Nake Spasic No. 2, Dcdinjc, Belgrade, Yugo­slavia. 
FRANK lUEN is now with tlie Missouri Public Service Commission in Jefferson City. He was for­merly in the office of the Governor of Missouri. 
Although all the votes arc not in, wc feci certain that the Class should give a tremendous round of applause to CLIFF PRODEHL and his helpers for all the time, cnerg>' and money they expended to put the Reunion over as they did. A special thanks must go to R.AY GEIGER whose ideas and generous giving of almanacs, pens, etc, supplied so much of the mailings to generate enthusiasm for the big 30th Reunion, 
CAPT. BOB LEE writes t}iat his .N'aiy duties as Legal OfiBccr for the Iceland Defense Force pre­x'cnted him from coming to the Reunion. He missed the 25th Reunion as he was in Formosa, and really regretted missing this one. Bob and his wife made a quick trip to the east coast this spring Co report to the Pentagon and, more important, to visit their first granddaughter in Orlando, Fla. She is one­year-old, and is the daughter of Roberta who is one 
60 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1962 
STEFAN CENTER was formally dedicated on the occasion of the 1962 Senior Prom in May, when the recreation building rocked to the music of Billy May^s band. Officiating (from left) arc Father Hesburgh, Mr. and l^frs. Alfred Stepan^ donors of the Center, and Student Body President Chris Bucldcy. 
of tlieir twins. Bob can be assured that he was missed too. 
From the Alumni Office: NEIL HURLEY, named chairman of the National Export Expansion Committee, launched into the job of increasing American exports %\ith a \igor that awed official Washington, according to the dippings. Even more clippings came in on Archbishop PAUL 
J. HALLINAN, who in a tew months hecame first 
Archbishop of .Atlanta and Metropolitan of the Atlanta province, 6rst alumni Archbishop to be baccalaureate celebrant and speaker at a Notre Dame Commencement, and first such exalted member of the hierarchy to spend a reunion week end with his classmates at Notre Dame. Condolences to His Exccllenc>* on the loss of some key members of his Atlanta flock in the tragic European air disaster of June. Lt. Col. REMI RENIER finished a course at the Army Command and General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth, last May. EDWARD J. KELLY is now a general partner as well as manager of the trading department of Carl M, Loeb, Rhoades & Co., New York securities firm. MARTIN F. KE.V­NEDY is now manager of the Washington, D.C., 
REUNION IN MIAMI typifies many sudi vacation meetings by Notre Dame men: 
(from left) Earl Brown, *39, and Seymour Wcisbcrger, '28, discuss Irish affairs with an ardent subway alumnus. Judge Cornelius Harrington of Chicago's Cook County Circuit Court. 
district of Humble Oil. He and his wife Ethel 
have seven son^ and ttvo daughter?. DOM X.APO-^ 
LIT.ANO presided over another great scries of 
Bengal Bouts on campus last spring and aho 
addressed a city-wide K. of C. breakfast in South 
Bend as an advocate of physical fitness for the 
nation's youth. 
JERRY CONWAY ad\-iscd that he joined Garrett and .Associates. Holl>'\vood public relations firm, in Januar\'. Tlic head of the firm "secured his start in the p.r. business through JOHN NANOVIC, tvliom I knew as editor of the Juggler. Garrett knew John through the Kudncr Adv. Agcnc>-." Jerr>' was with CBS Television xuid various communications media since moving from public relations in the Twin Cities in 1950. 
1933 

John A. Hoyt, Jr. Gillespie & O'Connor 342 Madison Ave. New Yorit 17, N.Y, 
REUNION REGISTRANTS MURRAY J. BOOTH, REV. LAWRENCE G.^ BROESTL, CS.C,, DANIEL J. CASEY. JA.MES DOWNS, REV. FR.\NCIS E. GARTLAND, C.S.C., JOSEPH HOLBACH, W. LAWTIENCE SEXTON. 
Considerable interest is developing among mem­

bers of our Class with respect to our 30lh Reunion, 
scheduled for June, 1963. In the months to come, 
more details w*ill be published in this column and 
by the .\Iumni office. JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY 
suggests that early plans and arrangements be made 
so that wc w-ill have a good turnout. 
In Paradtsum Dcducant Te Angeli (May the 

Angels lead thcc into Paradise). 
From the University and from his many friends, 

the sad word has come in tliat MIKE KOKEN died 
on .April 15, as a result of a coronar>'. We shall 
always remember Mike as a colorful campus person­
ality, a brilliant athlete, honored by the Mono-A 
gram Club as its President and a successful busi­
nessman. On behalf of the Class, we extend deep 
s>'mpathy to his wife. 
The sympathy of the Class is also extended to 

JOE DEMPSEY, who recenllv lost his wife. 
Nav>- Comdr. CHUCK HAFRON is in sick bay 

at Great Lakes. He sulTrrrd a heart attack in 
Februarx'. 
The State Capital (.Mbany) is still talking about 

the recent engagement party given by ED ECKERT 
and his wife for their daughter, Sally. 
From BILL L\"NCH, who \s with SlerlirifT Drug 

Company in New York, we learn that T. C. 
PINCKLEY visits ART RUPPUS frequently during 
the football season and that he sees ROL.AND^) 
DAMES when he passes through St. Louis. 
BERXIE {.MIKE) DE h\\\ past President of Nebraska Elks Asso., was recently elected the President of the Dc Lav First National Bank of Norfolk, Nebraska. Mike recently saw MAURY LEE in Chicago at the National Elks Convention. 
LARRY SEXTON, still engaged in the real estate business in Indianapolis, is now a Director of The Peoples National Bank and Trust Company. Larry visits N'D for all home games — has missed only 3 home games since 1928. 
JOHN ENGLISH still active in .Mumni circles in Tacoma — hopes that anyone visiting tlic fair in Seattle will contact him. 
Congratulations to CHARLIE FARRIS. That was a fascinating stor>' about him in the St. Louis papers in connection with the land clearance and housing program that he has been directing in that area. In a public testimonial, the Mayor of St. Louis recently said, *'Charlcs L. Farris Is a big ^ ^ man in a big job. Wc give him credit for changing"' the face of our City." Surely he is our ''Dis­tinguished Class Member" for this edition of the column. 
ED COUGH, recently thumbing through bank­ing magazines, discovered that )iis classmate MIKE DE LAY had been elected President of his local bank. It was Ed who sent good wishes to Mike. 
DON HERRON, '34, on a recent visit to New York, reported that he saw J.ACK BREEN and JERRY ASHLEY at a partv at the Detroit A.C. 
GEORGE H. ROHRS, President of Tappan Tan-^. ker Terminal, Inc., Hastings-on-Hudson, awaiting ^ the arri\-al of the first deep water overseas fuel 
j ^ tanker to open his new type water fuel terminal — 
^V biggest in ^fetropolitan area. FRANK KELLOGG h now Manager of Invest­ment Department of Cuna Mutual Ins. Society, Madison, Wisconsin. Frank writes he has been un­successful in efforts to reach CHARLIE PRESTON, Fairbanks, Alaska, his next-door neighbor in Afor­risscv Hall. VLN'CE BURKE and FRANK FALLON arc presently serv'ing as Directors of the Notre Dame Law Association. Frank suffered a scries of heart attacks last fall, but writes he is now doing well. That's important news for his (8) children. JOHN DONNELLY — President of Donnelly Mirrors, Inc., in Holland, Michigan, sends regards from Europe — where he is \-acationing with his , wife and (3) cliildrcn. 
^ PAUL Cv\LL.\GHAN proudly writes from Bel-Icvue, Ohio, that one of his bovs is starling at XD this fall. 
From Houston, TOM HUGHEN inquires about his former bridge partners, Don Draper, John Poyn­ton and Tom O'Mcara. 
JACK JAEGER now with cosmetic division of Genesco Inc., spends considerable of his time in travel. Jack lives in Rivcrdalc, N. Y. and has two daughters in high school and a younger son in grade scliool. 
BOB HEITGER reports from Bedford, Indiana, that he is looking for^vard to the '63 Reunion. 
Seeing Capt. BILL HAWKES (USN) Jn tijc last edition ol the ALUMNUS inspecting North Atlantic Naval Installations reminded us that we liavcn't 
^ heard from cither BILL or from FATHER (LT. 
P COL.) MAURICE POWERS, our distinguished .Army Chaplains, in same time. Missing Addresses Bureau The alumni list — mail returned unclaimed — con­tinues to grow. Periodically we shall make in­quiries — your assistance will be helpful. Many of us would like to Irarn of the whcre:J}outs of GEORGE BEAUDIN, ED GLEESON, JOHN HARFST, NORB SCHWARTZ and CHARLIE PRESTON — (Fairbanks, Alaska). 
To those who have answered our request for news 
— thanks! To those who misplaced our inquir>­we can be reached at the address noted in the column. 
From the .-Mumni Office: 
ROGER BRENNAN has been succeeded as chair­^ man of Cleveland's Gilniour Academy board of W trustees by WILLIAM COLE.MAN, MO, but lie remains on the board. In May EUGENE RAU was ejected president of The ifoles. an association of heavy construction engineers. He is vice-president and chief engineer of J- Rich Steers, Inc., and lives in WestHeld N.J. F. GRANGER WEIL, pub­lisher of the Port Huron (Mich.) Times Herald, joined other Michigan editors as a luncheon guest of President Kennedy. Lt. Col. JOHN HURLEY left Edith at home in Staten Island last spring to participate in logistics exercises at Ft. Lee. Va. John leaches at St. John's in Brooklyn, SISTER FIDELIA LAUGHLIN, who won her master's degree in Spanish with the Class, is professor of 
I Spanish and chairman of her department at Mar>-­
" grove College, Detroit, but she's spending the sum­mer studying Spanish lilt'ralurc at the University of Madrid, Spain. She is a former pupil of SISTER .MARY JERO.ME SANFORD, M.A., '22. 
1934 
T. Edward Carey 223 Elmwood Rd. Roclcy River 16, Ohio 

Upon our recent return from a meeting at N.D. we were filled with all kinds of zeal, good resolu­tions, in fact, the old pepper, for there just ain't no other place like Notre Dame in the spring. Came then, however, a deadline notice from the Magazine, and a quick peek into the folder marked 
L "1934-Current.'* Mother Hubbard should be my partner. 
At this dismal juncture, one Mansfield of San Francisco, erstwhile sccretar>- of this organization, came through with a lengthy epistle, reprinted here­with. (The editor of the ALUMNUS is constantly urging Class Secretaries to be brief Jn their re­ports. Inasmuch, as we have been on occasion so brief as to be undlscernible, wc must have a credit due for a little space.) 
ED MANSFIELD reports: "Guilt of the guild" often afflicts retired class secretaries. At the end of a five year span of cajoling brothers of the broken fist to take up quills, they exhale and pontifi­cate: "That's that. Now let good oV worr>­
FATHER JOHN ANTON, '38, rejoices with his family after ordination and fiist Mass in Rome, Italy: (from left) John J. Anton, Sr.; Dwight McKay, Ghic^o; Father Anton; his mother and t^\-o brothers. Bill and Dick Anton, *39. (Italnews photo) 
about that column from now on." Then they en­vision the latest compiler hooty-owling Into ^ an empty mailbox week after week, and pining: "Chee, they liked me in sciiool." Then sympathy sets in like fog creeping under the Golden _ Gate Bridge, and volunteer stuff like this booms in on 
T. Edward and his ilk. 
"GEORGE MENARD is rumored to have done 
a good Job as Chicago club president; still in TV, 
but probably keeps a cr>stal radio job open back in 
Sergeant's Bluff, Iowa, just in case TV Is a flash 
in the panning. Saw HUGHIE DEVORE briefly 
when a campus Foundation meeting came off — 
and old age hit me fast: near him in Cartier was 
Manager JAMES SCHWARTZ, handsome carbon 
copy of a halfbacking father, on striding March­
monl. Is WALT KENNEDY still mayor of Stam­
ford, Conn.? BLISH, EUGENE, is still a suitcase 
man out of Denver for Iamb promotion for the 
American Wool Council; young Bucky is an N.D. 
junior, and should make a good catcher for Coach 
Kline. 
*'Not many '34 men out here In the West. CL.\UDE MULLE^VGUE, who came back to finish after wc left, is In Oakland; BOB KELLEY, ex-manager, is bringing up his own young athletes in L.A.; ED SPORL came to San Mateo for United Fruit, and when they promoted him back to native New Orleans, thousands of his friends here quit bananas for kumquats. JOHN CONLEY, journa­list who went from pungent prose to spio* McCor­mlck & Co., came here to head the Schilling di­vision but was transferred before lie got settled. Local Dictaphone friends say that DON BRICE is no longer v-p there, but couldn't tell me where now. In the retreat picture In the last ALUMNUS, he looked content, so the new deal must be a good deal. 
"JI.M KEARNS is due here in May for son Tom's exit with honors from Santa Clara, and then into Illinois on a math fellowship. Denver's Blish reports Atlanta contacts with MIKE WIEDL, and non-Atlanta talk with inventor HARVEY ROCK­WELL. Thanks to Carey's computer for STEW OSBORN'S move from Shrcvepo't to Houst'n (I'll call you in Houston, Slew). L.\URIE VEJAR b still with Disney Studios, and CHAPPIE CHAPMAN is still smiling in L.A. The late JOHN (Kansas City) O'CONNOR'S fine scholastic heritage is being maintained by Kathy of SMC, now a Peace Corps girl with Walter Langford's team In South America. Mrs. John (Lorctta) and brother Edward and wife visited us here in San Mateo. We're sure that the eight young O'Connors remember easy John as we do: scholar, friend. Christian gentleman. 
"Do any of you fogg\--mcmoried characters re­member a EDWARD KRAUSE in *34? I want to remind you that wc probably don't appreciate the good job he does for N.D. in his travels. I've watched him work out here, and I can testify. His No. I pride right now? Surely his tall son In the soutane of a C.S.C. seminarian. 
"That's the news. If I can opiumize stuff like this away out here, you depression victims who lie to each other face to face, can sit down and help Carey earn his stipend. If you come west, try me at San Mateo, or Crown Zellerbach's headquarters building in "The Citv.* " 
— Ed Mansfield 

From the .-\lumni Office: 
T.C. MOYNIHAN is manufacturing manager for the Bcndhc Products Aerospace Division of the Bendix Corp., in charge of all fabrication and assembly of aircraft and space products. Formerly program director of propubion controls, he has lived in South Bend since 1935 and has been with Bendix since 1940. SISTER RENATA DALY, CS.C , who gained her master's degree with the Class, has had her public relations troubles since succeeding SISTER MADALEV.A as president of St. Mary's College (including a much publicized quarrel with an English artist over the propriety of displaying his drawings while he was a temporary faculty member), but her classmates hope she will attain the academic stature of her great predecessor. 
1935 
FranUyn Hochrciter 702 Scarlet Dr. Towson 4, Maryland 
REUNION REGISTRANTS FRANCIS DUNN, JAMES MacDEVITT. 

From the .-Munini Office: 
New York's voluble Congressman WILLLVM E. .MILLER has been making a lot of headlines since becoming Republican national chairman. He's well on the way to becoming as fiery and controversial a figure as his former Democratic coimterpart, the late PAUL .M. BUTLER, '27. Bill scored heavily against the Kennedy administration in criticism of administration tactics against the steel industry*, but he has not been afraid to indulge in intra-party sniping, criticizing Richard Nbton's campaign tactics, netting up party councils opposed by old-timers, etc. Just the kind of individualism you could expect from a Notre Dame man. Bill's travels have not kept him from affairs of Notre Dame. He was a guest of the Terre Haute C\vb during a trip to that city, and the St. Joseph Valley Club brought him to South Bend for a nonpartisan address on Universal Notre Dame Night. (See Clubs.) F.T. McGUIRE, former foundry manager for South Bend's Sibley Machine & Fotindry, is now vice-president of research for Deere & Co., Molmc, III., farm machinery manufacturer with which he has been associated since 19iB. Finally, some notes oa 
Notre Dame Alumnusj August^ 1962 61 
Class President DANIEL J. YOUXGERMAN, uho waa appointed director of purchasing of Raytheon Company, Lexington, Mass., last December. Dan is responsible for the coordination and administration of purchasing polic\' and procedure of all the company*s operating divisions and plants. Dan was formerly director of procurement for Bendix Cor­poration's Mishawaka missile division and a pur­diaser for Studcbakcr-Packard Corp. Writes Dan: "I started here with Raytlieon as of December I, 1961, and lived a bachelors life until March 8 when I moved my family into a new home here in Lexington —- that is my wife, youngest daughter Kathie and our Frencli poodle. My oldest daughter Pcgg\* was a sophomore at Purdue. . . . Middle dauglitcr Marilee was a senior al St. Mar>''s Academy and has been living with the PAT MANIONS. She and Pat's youngest daughter Diane have been vcr>* close friends for years." The family returned for graduation in June. Dan continues: ''Although I am now out here, I fully intend to give as mucli effort as always to the Class of 1935 and am looking forward to our 30th in 1965. . . . 
I had lunch last week with ART McM.\XMON All local contacts relative to the Class should be directed to ED SMITH, treasurer. Eventually, after things become a little less hectic, 1 hope to track down '35crs in this area. . , . P.S. If you want to check up on CHARLIE CALLAH.AN's early days, I am sure in a good position to do so. This is his home town, you know.*' Dan can be reached at 193 Grant St., Lexington 73, Mass. 
1936 
Joseph J. Waldron 70 Black Rock Road Yardlcy, Pcnnsyh-ania 

From the .-\lumni Office: Since last December ROBERT F. COOK, 409 
N. Victoria St., Mishawaka, Ind., has been assistant secretary- of Emmco Insurance Co., a wholly owned subsidiary of South Bend's Associates Investment Co. Bob was previously manager of the undenvritJng and filing departments. He is a member of the Tri-Valle\' Council of Boy Scouts of America, the Fellowship Club and the Scottish Rite. Tlic Cooks Iiavc two children. 
1937 
Joseph P. Quinn P.O. Box 275 Lake Lcnapc Andover, New Jersey 

REUNION REGISTR;\XTS LOUIS J. AUAMAN, HARRY A. BALDWhX, GEORGE B.ATES, RALPH L. BERNARD, GIRARD 
E. BESANCE.NEY, JOH.V E. BRASSELL, E.V­RIQUE J. BRIAS, ALIAS F. BRIDE, ROBERT 
C. BURKE, JAMES aVLDWELL, MERLIN J. CALDWELL, RALPH CARDINAL, PETER C\SSONE, REV. R.AYMOND F. COUR, C.S.C., JERRY CLAEYS, JR., JOH.\ J. COYLE, ROBERT J.CRONIN, JOH.V P. DALEY, LARRY DANBO.M, RICHARD H. DEL,\NEY, SE.\ATRO DiLEO, BERNARD P. DON.\ELLY, PAUL T. DOR,\N, JOSEPH T. DORG.\N, JAMES W. DOU-NEY, 
F. JOSEPH DROLLA, CHARLES W. DUFFi", ALFRED T. ERSKINE, LOUIS C. FEHLIG, ROBERT B. FILSON, RICHARD E. FLOOD, H1LLUM R. FOLEY, EDWARD A. FOX, EDWARD GARVEY, FRED CAST, JEROME H. GOH.MAN, ARCH F. GOTT, WILLIAM H. GRAHAM, PAUL A. GUAR.MERI, DONALD HANNING, HAROLD E. HELVEMAN.V, DONALD 
A. HENNESSV, FRANCIS J. HERB, THO.\l,\S 
J. HIGGINS, ARTHUR F. HOFF.MAX, LOUIS 
H. HOLLENBACH, EDWARD P. HUISKLVG, PETER J. JOHNE.V, CHARLES B. JORDAN, REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., C. JOSEPH KALMAN, P.\UL H. KANE, \HLTON A. K.\TZ, BERNAR.O SEFFLER, WILLIAM J. KENNEDY, CARL KL-*«i, RICHARD W. KING, WILFRED KIRK, HAllW F. KOEHLER, REV. WILLUM 
62 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
JAMES P. COLLERAN, '35 Tops in Firm, Family, Club, Community 
James Colleran is a partner in Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomer>'- one of the top three certified public accounting firms in the nation. A former president of the Notre Dame and Serra Clubs of Cleveland, he has been elected chairman of the Serra International Convention to be held in Cleveland in 1964. But these are only inci­dentally mentioned in the four-page recita­tion of his devotion to Church, his business, community affairs and family life that made him Notre Dame Man of the Year at last year's Universal Notre Dame Night in Cleve­land. 
C. KUNSCH, NELSO.V LAMPERT, JR., BROTH­ER ERIC LANDERS, C.S.C., JOHN P. LAUTAR, HARRY LINN, REV. ROBERT J. LOCH.NER, C.S.C., THOMAS LUCKEY, WILLIAM J. LYNCH, JR., REV. WILLIA.\r J. McAULIFFE, C.S.C., FR,\NCIS T. McDO.VALD, CLE.MENT L. Mc-GOWAN, JR., RAY.MOND E. McGRATH, ROBERT J. .McKE.ATING, JOHN F. McKENNA, JOH.N J. M.ANNING, FR.ANCIS A. .MARINO, CHARLES F. MEYERS, CHARLES F. MILES, VER.N .MOONEY, REGLNALD MORRISON, JAMES A. .MOULDER, FREDERICK MULCAHY, ART MULHOLL.\.\D, PAUL MULLER, WIU LIAM F. -MULRENAN, FRED W. MUNDEE, CHARLES J. NAU, EDWARD R. NEAHER, WALTER NIENABER, J.AMES F. O'HARA, JAMES L. PARSO.NS, THO.MAS PENDERGAST, HARRY POULLN, JOHN M. POWERS, III, FRANCIS QULVLAN, JOSEPH P. QUINN, JR., BERNARD F. REILLY', JOHN A. RILEY, PAUL RO.\RK, JOSEPH P. SANCULIUS, JOSEPH V. SCHILLING, ALBERT J. SCHW.\RTZ, WILLIAM J. SHARP, JR., J. PAUL SHEEDY, ALBERT 
J. SMITH, WILLIAM STEINKEMPER, CYRIL STROKER, MITCHELL C TACKLEY, FRANCIS TR.A'i-NOR, ROBERT V. TROUSDALE, ANTHO­NY VALVO, LOUIS W. VETTEL, PETER VIVIANO, HARRY T. WAITE, JR., ROBERT WALDECK, JAMES A. WALDRON, ROBERT C. U-EAVER, PHILIP L. WELSH, THOMAS J. U-HfFE, EDWARD T. WILSON, VICTOR WOODS, JOSEPH ZWERS. 
Before reunion some of the '37 gang made ihc neu-s headlines. Letters were nil as the men I know were saving all tlicir lallcing for tlie 25t!l. 
DR. CHAS. HUFNAGEL was pictured with a 
Jim's involvement in a business devoted | to untangling a welter of federal, state and local taxes was detailed in a recent profile by columnist Bob Seltzer in the Cleveland Press. Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomer>­has 22 offices in the U.S. and 76 more abroad under the firm name of Coopers & Lybrand. But Jim's citation as a Notre Dame man began with his youth in Youngs­town, O. 
Descendent of four Irish grandparents, he was an honor student at Youngstown's Rayen high and a star athlete in football, basket­ball and track. Halfback on the undefeated i Rayen football team of 1929, he dreamed of going on to football stardom at Notre Dame until osteomylitis infected his hip joint and left him with a limp. Resigned, he com­pleted his senior year as class president and went on to academic stardom in the College of Commerce. Joining Lybrand after gradu­ation, he soon passed his C.P..'^. c.\am and worked himself up to a partnership in 1958. 

Meanwhile he had plunged into the af­fairs of the Notre Dame Club and cham­pioned the interests of younger graduates. . Elected president in 1952, he has been ' chairman of many Club functions. Jim was elected president of Serra in 1958, working tirelessly to promote vocations to the priest­hood. He has also taught religion to public high school students, served as director and treasurer of the Catholic Youth Ser\-ice Bureau (aiding emotionally disturbed young­sters), held chairmanships in various other branches of Catholic .•\ction, in addition to his work with the Cleveland Welfare Fed­eration, Chamber of Commerce and various professional societies. 
With his wife, the former Helen Connor, | Jim is devoted to his two sons, Jim and Dennis, and two daughters, Mary .Anne and Catherine. His all-N.D. family includes brother Lou, '46, and three Irish brothers-in-law: Chet Rice, '28; Jack Hagen, '34: and Dave Connor, '39. 
patient who had been shot, and our man had re­
moved a part of the slug from Iiis heart. 
JIM BACON was sliown nationally inter\*icwing actress Jaync Mansfield wtien slie was discussing . one of iter problems. Jim loolted well tanned and ' also well fed. 
Tlic lliird item is a real sleeper. TOM C.\S­SIDY is pictured witfr about 15 beauty queens, swim suits, and featured as tlie "Most Popular Pro­fessor" at Southern Illinois University. After Tom received his degrees and scr\-icc, lie taught at ND until 1952, tlicn to Columbia for researcli, Wisconsin State from 1955 tlicn joined Southern Illinois faculty in 1958 and ends up with his own popular party at the "Annual Spring .Assembly." These badiclors really get around. 
Letter from JERRY BES.ANCENEY states he would attend with his Ohio license plate ND. 37 which he has maintained over the years. Jerry reported that Frank Fox, formerly of Newark. Ohio, passed away and had been living in Florida. Remember Frank in your prayers. 
AL SCHWARTZ was working on tfic southwest boys. BOB TROUSDALE reported from Mott. 
N. D., that lie was picking up VERN MOONEY < (first time wc had a line on Vern), and CHUCK MILES in Chicago, and they would sec the gang at the 25th. The big traveler was certainlv MIKE BRIAS all the way from Manila, via the World's Fair, Honolulu and Chicago. 
Let's report in for the next issue in .August. . . . 

From the Alumni Office: 
WILLIAM J. O'SULLIVAN, JR., developer of Echo I, E.xplorcr IX, etc., was commencement speaker for Bellarmine College's graduation exercises i in his native Louisville in June, receiving an honorary doctorate. The perennial JOHN M. 
POWERS III, Humble OiPs Baytown, Tex., dcvd­
( # oper, took out another Canadian petroleum patent in March. P.\RKER SULLIVAN, by becoming president of General Telephone of California, lived up to his billmg in a Spotlight Alumnus feature of a year or so back, but watcli for a similar treatment of TOM CASSIDY since he was named most popular prof in a poll of students at Southern Illinois U. FATHER PAT PEYTO.N continues to rival Billy Graham in attendance at his Rosar>' Crusade rallies. Enthusiastic police in Bogota, Colombia, last spring estimated Father Pat's crowd at I.OOO.OOO, but more conservative estimates of 
400.000 to 500.000 %vould break all records. VIN­CENT G. PROBST, former midvvestern sales manager for Hydromatics, Inc.. is now midwestern regional 
. sales manager for Snap-Tite, Inc., coupling manu­ty facturer. operating out of Bellvvood. 111. 
1938 
Burnic Bauer 1139 Western Avenue 
South Bend 25, Ind. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS JOHN PLOUFF, JOHN F. TANGNEY, T. WIL­LIAM TUNNEY. 
Now on dc-ck for the next big Silver Anniver­sary Reunion at Notre Dame is — you guessed it — the class of 1938! In less than a year the one big week end remaining in our Notre Dame lives will be open to us. Next to our graduation this will be the one Notre Dame event we will regret missing the most in years to come if we don*t make it — and recall with happiest memories if wc do make it. Start your plans now to be with us next June. 
The lives and souls of many people will be in­fluenced by the actions of two of our classmates because of two big recent events. JACK ANTON, 
' the "Deacon" became Father Jack Anton in Rome April 7th. "T-Bonc" WILLIAM MAHONEY, our .-Munini President, was named iVmbassador to Ghana, Africa, by President Kennedy in May. It will be worth coming to the 2Jlh reunion next June just to visit with Father Jack and Bill. To make sure that the class of '38 is mentioned in other vital areas HUB KIRCHMAN writes from Orange Cove (near Fresno) California that they are now seven with Kathleen's arriv'al, and that FRANCIS "MONK" MEYER in nearby Glcndale, Calif., did something about the absence of '38ers in the Birth Announcement column in recent ALUMNUS issues by welcoming No. 8, John, to their family. Hub says he and Monk hope to see everyone at the 25th reunion where they will hold a clinic for the benefit of you lads who have given up. BILL McNAMARx\ -sent me a tip off note on T-Bonc ^faIIoney's Impending ambassadorial appoint­ment from his law office in Oak Park. Illinois. Bill has been on the Holy Name Speakers^ Bureau of the Chicago Archdiocese for 12 years and also teaches one night a week in the adult education program on Estate Planning and Probate Procedures which is his law speciality. 
CHARLIE aVLLAHAN In his sports publicity travels talked to CLIFF TALLMAN, who lives at 105 Southfleld Road in Fairfield, Conn., with wife and seven children, two girls and five boys, one of whom was all-state halfback at Roger Ludlowe High School last year. Cliff, who was the Com­merce School's voice on the Glee Club and Uni­versity radio, is in the fuel brokerage business. 
Cliarlle also visited with JOHNNY 0*CONNOR and JIM CARSON at Indianapolis at the Butler basketball game, and saw FRANK O'L^VUGHLIN at Mass In Evanston. TOM JORD.-VN made a couple of the games at N.D. the past year and I thought several times I saw coach-brother John start to send Tom into the game. 
PAT CAREY left his Sterling beer card at ray oflicc several limes when I was out. Hope he comes again, with or without samples. 
^(ade a Chamber of Commerce Inspection trip to Pensacola, Fla., in May and met a JUDGE J. G. PRENDERGAST. Class of '29 from Baltimore, who knew HAROLD WILLIAMS. 
Alumni office sends word that TOM RADIGAN, 
VINCENT W. HARTNETT, '37 He Looked at Entertainment and Saw Red 
Co-author of Red Channels, editor-pub­lisher of File 13 and Hartnett "Reports" Vincent Hartnett is regarded as a top e.xpert on Communist inBhration of entertainment media, particularly TV. He has testiBed before the U.S. Senate Internal Securit>­Subcommittee and the House Un-.American Activities Committee and has been a profes­sional consultant to TV sponsors, networks, advertising agencies, etc. 
As a radio-TV program super\-isor ("Gangbusters," "The Black Robe") in 1948-49, Vince saw Communist efforts to "colonize" the New York entertainment in­dustry and began assembling files on Com­munist activities in entertainment-communi­cations. His research was directed at identi­fying not merely those involved in pro-Com­munist activities and infiltration but those 
yc- olde-Dome-editor,' lias moved from Orlando-to­1641 E. Horatio Ave., ^faitland, Fla.. and that Dr. BILL MATHEY has moved from Cornell Uni­versity to Whitmore Laboratory, Mycrstown, Pa. Fellow Minnesolan ED BOYLE has moved from El Paso, Texas, to Phoenix, Arizona, probably to fill the void in Arizona left by fellow lawyer and trackman T-Bonc Mahoney's assignment to Africa. Old Sorin sub neighbor TOM MAHER has moved from "Baa'stin" to one of its subs, 42 BoIIey Road, Waterlown. ^tass.. and I'm looking for^vard to hearing him pronounce his new address at the reunion. FR.\NCIS McC\RTHY, of the scientific AfcCarthvs of Cleveland moved out of the cltv also, to 2629 Dover Center Rd.. Westlake, Ohio. 'PHIL GALLETTA, the old ballerina of the Gym team, has changed addresses in Rahway, X. J., to 826 .Madison. Dr. BILL DIBRIEXZ^X's new address In Brooklyn, X. Y., is 416-74th St. LARRY STEWART has left his native Chicago for 223 Royal Ave.. Ferguson 35, Mo. Old sidekick JERRY KAXE whom I expect to sec at the Seattle Fair in July sends in a new address of 
P.O. Box 707 Renton, Washington. .Another of the old university radio men, DICK MOLLER, has moved across town to 50 Country Road P.O. Box 216, Rcmsenberg, L.I., X. Y. 
From the Alumni Oflicc: The big news of "T-BONE" MAHOXEY joining the ambassadorial ranks (in Ghana he's "the 
who were not. Thus, of some 15,000 sub­ject cards in his index file, the great ma­jority represents individuals respecting whom no evidence of pro-Communist affiliations has been found. 
To give the American public the facts, Vince began lecturing and writing magazine articles. In 1950 he co-authored Red Chan­nels ("The Report of Communist Influence in Radio and Television"), edited and pub­lished by the publishers of the anti-Commu­nist newsletter. Counterattack, Red Chan­nels became the object of sustained and violent attack by Communists. The book's accuracy has been demonstrated, however, by the fact that no substantive error has been shown and none of the half-dozen libel actions against its publishers was suc­cessful. In 1956, the accuracy, fairness and public-ser\-ing aspect of Red Channels were upheld by New York State's Court of Ap­peals. A founder of AWARE, Inc., a non­profit membership organization under the laws of the State of New York, incorporated in 1953, to combat the Communist con­spiracy in entertainment-communications and the fine arts, he is a member of the board of directors and vice-president. 
After graduation (maxima cum laude) Vince was awarded a two-year Walsh-Cun­nigham scholarship for his M.A. (maxima cum laude) in 1939. Under the late Walde­mar Gurian he studied Bolshevism in theory and in practice. He was a U.S. Naval Re­ser\-e officer in World War II: as an Intel­ligence officer on the staff of the Com­mander, Third Fleet, Admiral Halsey; in the Joint Intelligence Center, Pacific Ocean Area, Pearl Harbor; and in Washington on the staff of the Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral King; received several commenda­tions, and was honorably discharged with the rank of Lieutenant Commander. Vince was in magazine and publicity work, before going into radio-TV. His articles or short stories have appeared in This Week Maga­zine, N.Y. Times Magazine, The Sign, Amer­ica, Saturday Evening Post, American Legion Magazine, American Mercury, Argosy, etc. 
Vince is married to the former Doris-Anne Rehm, of Pelham, N.Y. Parents of six chil­dren, the Hartnetts live in Crestwood, N.Y. 
Honorable -T-Bonc")- didn't "•eclipse"the manifold exploits of his distinguished classmates. FATHER HESBURGH and JOE KUHARICH conU'nucd to get headlines wherever ihev went, from Chile to Chlllicothe. WILLIAM J. RILEY, already president of the First Xational Bank of East Chicago, was elected a director of X'orthem Indiana Public Ser\icc Co., replacing his uncle. Col. Walter Riley, who resigned after 20 years. Bill is also board chairman of the Riley Co., president of O.F. Jordan Co., and vice-president of the Indiana Harbor Homes dt\isIon of Inland Steel. .A veteran of civic, fraternal and X'otrc Dame activities In the Calumet Region, he lives in Munster, Ind.. with wife Charlotte, four sons — William III, Charles, Robert and Michael — and a daughter, Kathryn. JOHN B. O'DONNELL, manager of highway sales for Alcoa, has been named to the joint committee of the state highway officials and /Vmerican road builders* organizations. With Alcoa since 1949, he lives in his native Pittsburgh. Brig. Gen. (ret.) JOHN A. SCOTT became pub­lisher of the Lafayette, Ind., Journal and Courier earlier this year, and has just been elected a director of Federated Publications, Inc., which owns and operates several other newspapers. FRANK E. LARWOOD, a transportation rate analyst for the Public Utility Commissioner of the State of Oregon, left Salem for his first visit to the campus since graduation. Frank was a journalist of the Cooncy days. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 63 
1939 
James N. Motschall Singcr-Motschall Crp. 10090 West Chicago Detroit 4, Michigan 

From the Alumni Office: ROBERT L. SCALLV of Clo^tei. N.J., has been named regional group insurance manager for Mutual of Xcw York's ten-state eastern ".ales region. Bob uill continue as regional group manager for the insurance company's three-state Greater New York region. CHARLES F. ROGERS has been elected to the board of directors and been made vice-president and general manager of Kramer Bros. Freight Lines, Detroit. J.W. SNYDER, former director of purchasing for Studebaker-Packard, has joined the sales staff of Howell Industries, Detroit automobile suppliers. WALTER J. SHORT has been elected a director of the Financial Executives Institute. Walt is senior wce-prcsident for finance and administration for Allegheny .Airlines, Inc. EDWIN* D. O'LEARY, former director of organiza­tion and executive personnel planning for Ford Motor Company, has been named vice-president of the company for personnel and organization. PAUL 
R. WHITLOCK, a law school classmate, has been prosecuting attorney of Sullivan County and is seek­ing re-election to that post in Sullivan. Iiid. 
1940 
James G. Brown 144 East 44th Street New York, N. Y. 

From the Alumni Office: Secretary- JIM BROU7C missed the joint meeting of N.D. Alumni Board, class and club officers in New York last Mav because of a sudden trip to Florida. ROBERT H. L.\MBERT became Wce­presidcnt for advertising sales at the N'eu- York Herald Tribune on May 21, having been executive \-ecp of a newspaper representative firm. Responsible for all ads in the Herald Trib, Bob lives in Port Chester, N.Y., with wife Helen and two children, Mary and Michael. Congratulations to BROTHER JEREMIAS MYSLIEWICZ, C.S.C., librarian at Holy Cross School, New Orleans, on the 25th annivcrsar>' of his religious profession. Brother Jcrr\- hails frtim Chicago. Col. LEO A. SANTINI, \-icc-presidcnt of New York's Santini Bros., kept *rife Rutliann in Ardslc>% N.Y., while he participated in logistics exercises of his re5er\"c unit at Fort Lee, Va., in May. ^\^LLIAM COLEMAN U now chair­man of the board of trustees at the Holy Cross Brotlicrs' Gilmour Academy in Cleveland. 
1941 
James F. SpcUman 7 East 42nd Street New York 17, N. Y. 

Your scribe is on active duty with the .Air Force. However, I took time out to attend the eastern meeting of tlie national alumni board, the club presidents, and the class secretaries at the Com­modore Hotel in little old Gotham, May 17, 18 and 19. As usual, it u'as most pleasant to greet otiier N.D. men. TIic general discussions wIiJcli comprised most of tlic agenda produced the com­mon plea — how can we get our classmates to write to us? I guess there is no simple ans%ver. We just live on hope! Suffice to say, none of you good 4Icrs has dropped me a cnmib of a note since the last time. I have received two calls from JOHN O'LOUGHLIN, in Chicago, but cacli lime I have been away from the office. John is worried because I threatened to double his dues. .And speaking of 
64 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1962 
dues, you can start sending your agreed-upon stipend of either the total amount, $25, or $5 for the year about to end June 30. I am using last June 30 as the starting point in our drive to build up our expected Class Fund. For eacli of the five years, if you good classmates will send your checks to me made out to the "University of Notre Dame, Class of '41,'' I can hope to present to you at reunion time a report on what is planned for the use of the Fund. .As I stated in previous editions, there arc several worthy ideas. Just as soon as I get back from active duty, I shall devise a simple dues invoice to help stimulate your memorj*. Please co­operate so that we can make our 25th the BIG one. In addition, I intend to designate indiWduals from various sections of the U.S. as members of a board to come up with some ideas about the 25th. You may think that it is a little early to start thinking about 1966, but time slips by. with a year already gone since our 20th. So. it is NOT too soon — the timr is NOW. Even though you may not be a member of the above-mentioned board, if you have any ideas, communicate them to your secrctarv', along with some personal data about you or another classmate. 
That's all for this session. I await your responses. 
From the Alumni Office: 
JOE BROUSSxXRD II was in Rome for the Notre Dame Club's last St. Patrick's Day and added his testimonial to the many received about the genial host of the Rome alumni, VINCE McALOON, '34. Joe represented the rice industr>- in a study of the European Common Market. Via. CHARLIE CALLA­HAN, '38. and Purdue's JOE DIENHART, *26, we have this picture of Pat­rick Readv O'Connor, son of GEORGE O'CONNOR and wife Mar>- Jo. Patrick tipped the scales at 55 pounds on his third birth­day, and Joe thinks the athletic office should keep an e>'e on him. Con­gratulations to WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, appointed vice-president of Bankers Mortgage Co. of California. Grad school alumnus .ALEX^ANDER CR.AW rcccntlv 
got his doctorate in math from the American Uni­versity while working at the Army Chemical Corps ^ Biological Laboratories, Fort Dctrick, Frederick, Md. " Alex and Mrs. Craw have four children. Con­gratulations to BROTHERS ROMUALD SAHM and EAMON SCHAFFER, C.S.C., both of the Southwest Prorince, on the 25th anniversary of their religious profession. 
1942 
WiUiam M. Hickey 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois ^ 

REUNION REGISTRANTS ERWIN C. ARANOWSKI, L.UVRENCE J. AUBREY, CAMILLE E. AUCREM,\NXE, JOHN 
W. BERGEN, JOHN C. BERMINGHAM, C\­MIEL F. BRACKE, BERNARD F. BREHL, JR., 
H. CLIFFORD BROSEY, JOHN F. BROUTC, JR., MICHrVEL J. G\RR, JOSEPH P. CHAMPLEY, ANDREW W. CHERNEY, JOHN H. CLIFFORD, THOMAS P. CODY, ROBERT F. COLEMAN, FRANCIS J. CONCANNON, CHARLES E. CON­GER, JAMES F. CONWAY, BERNARD A. CRIM-^ -MINS, WARREN A. DAVIS, THOMAS F. DEG-W NAN, DA\1D W. DEVINS, JOSEPH H. DI­.MOND, REV. JA.MES P. DOLL, C.S.C., iXUtS 
P. DOYLE, EDWARD J. DUNIjWy, DO.NALD 
J. FIGEL, JA.MES J. GALT, EDWARD P. GERAGHTY, JOHN W. GILBERT, EDWARD J. GLASER, ANDREW J. GORICV, STEPHEN G. GRALIKER, DONALD R. GRANT, EDWARD J. GRIESEDIECK, VICTOR J. GULYASSY, DON­ALD F. GUYETTE, DAVID HACK, ROBERT W. HARGRAVE, JOHN C. HART, THO.MAS A. HENTS'IGAN, JR., LAWRENCE F. HICKEV, WILLIAM M. HICKEY, DANIEL E. HILGART­NER, THO.MAS HOBAN,JOHN L. HOELSCHER, DONALD J. HOG.AN, STEPHEN R. JUZWIK, BYRON V. KANALEY, JR., E.M.METT KEENAN, 
FAMILY OF FRANK E. O'DOWD, '42, finally sho»ii after being named "Catholic Family of the Year" last winter, has increased from ten to eleven since winning the award. Here they arc (roughly, l.-r.): young Frank, 15; Mrs. O'Dowd (Margaret or Peggy); Tricia, 4; Kathleen, 10; Maureen, 7; young P^gy, 16; Frank O'Dowd; Gerald, 6; Thomas, 12; and John, 9. Another son, Michael Joseph, was bom to the Wilmette, 111., m^ couple on May 2, 1962, shortly after this picture was taken. 
MAURICE S. KELLY, THOM/\S B. KENEDY, /•/VILLLVM E. KENNEDY, JR., JAMES W. LEIS-VlNG. PAUL B. LILLIS. CHARLES B. LOHR, PHILLIP J. LUCIER, WALTER P. McCOURT, COLEMAN R. McGUIRE, JR., RICHARD E. McHUGH, JAMES E. McIN"n'RE, EDWARD J. McL.\UGHLIN, CHARLES E. McNEILL, JAMES 
F. McNULTY, JR., HARRISON T. MacDONALD, CHARLES MacFARL.\NE, WILLIA.\I B. MAD­DEN, RODERICK H. MAGUIRE, JOHN R. MALONE, EDWARD F. MANGELSDORF, WIL­LIAM A. .MARSHALL, DONALD J. MARTIN, WALTER J. .MINDER, OIT O B. .MOLIDOR, JAMES D. MORAN, ROY E. .\1URR.\Y, JR., THO.MAS D. NASH, FRANK E. O'DOWD, ROBERT W. O'HARA, JAMES J. 0»NE^\L, I RICHARD K. OWENS, CARROLL P. PITKIN. 1 \ WILLIA.M R. PUVTT, FRANCIS J. POLLNOW, ft^JR., THOMAS V. POWERS, JOSEPH .\I. PRO­
KOP, FRANCIS B. QUINN, WILLIA.M O. REG­AN, EDWARD P. REIDY, JR., JOSEPH A. RO­RICK, UGO D. ROSSI, K. JOSEPH SHEEDY, DANIEL R. SHOUVLIN, JR., ROBERT J. SIBILSKY, E. PAUL SLICK, JOSEPH C. SPOHR, JR., JOHN H. STAUBER. PAUL J. TAFEL, JR., FRANCIS A. VEIT. THOMAS J. WALKER, ERNEST E. ZLMMER, GILBERT A. 2L\LMER­.MAN. 
Rcccmly I xnsited uith FRED HOOVER in Seattle uiicrc he is practicing law. He is president of the Notre Dame Club of Western Washington. 
PHIL LUCIER now lives in St. Louis and had 

hoped that his eleven children — 7 girls and 4 boys. ^Khe oldest 15 and the youngest 2 with no twins — ^vould keep him in front in the "OfTspring Race," 
however, EFFIE QUINN has just become the proud father of No. 14. Phil is president of the Con­tinental Telephone Company which is a holding company of small independent telephone businesses throughout the country*. 
From the Alumni Ollice: Not quite as prolific as Lucicr and Qutnn yet, FRANK E. O'DOWD still has the "Catholic Family of the Year" according to the NCWC Family Life Conference. .And we finally have a picture of ten of the eleven O'Dowds in this issue after being scooped by (horrors!) the University of Chicago Magazine. At least this picture is difTcrcnt from 
the musical poses shown in all the Chicago and iocesan papers; friends were beginning to ask mhethcr they ever stopped singing. A final salute to Frank and Peggy, coupled with congratulations on the birth of their ninth, Michael Joseph, last May 2. PAUL TAFEL, JR., has been elected president of Louisville^s Tafel Electric and Supply Co., succeeding his father, who was elected chair­man of the board. ANGELO B. A.MATO of Cress-kill, N.J., addressed Poughkeepsie's Harding Club last May on "The Challenge of Foreign Competi­tion.*' Supcr\'isor of accounting for Ford Inter­national StafT, overseas distributors and export supply, Jersey City, and is in charge of prep scliool intcr\-iewing for Notre Dame in the North Jersey area. Last issue's -'Spotlight" on JAMES 
t . PURCELL, named public relations vice-president of Northern Indiana Public Ser\ice Co., said that Nipsco was a gas company; not so. says Jim. the companv also deals in electricity in some areas. Buffalo editor PAUL NEVILLE took wife Lil to Acapuico for a spring vacation, but had to cope with a lot of children's injuries after returning. ROBERT C. UHL was made manager of Hertz Rent-A-Car operations in Denver and Colorado Springs. Colo., last March. And congratulations to BROTHER DUNSTAN BOWLES, St. Edward's University, on the 25th annivcrsarj' of his religious profession. 
1943 
Jack Wiggins 5125 Briggs Avenue La Crescenta, Calif. 

REU.VIO.V REG1STRA.NTS A G. J. CON\'Y, GEORGE PFUVNTZ, .MEL-VflLLE RU.MMEL, WILLIAM SP^VNGLER. 
DONALD C. TIEDEMANN, '41 
B.M.O.C. Now Top La«-yer for N.Y.L.LC. 
Since last October Donald G. Tiedemann has been semng as assistant general counsel with the New York Life Insurance Com­pany. 
Don has been counsel since 1958 and was appointed assistant counsel in 1955. He joined the Office of the General Gounsel of New York Life in 1949 and was previously associated with Messrs. Milbank, Tweed, Hope and Hadley in New York City. 
Raised and educated in the public schools of Westfield, New York, Don was a popu­lar Glee Club soloist and BMOC before graduation from Notre Dame and subsequent degrees from the Har\"ard Graduate School of Business Administration and the Har\-ard Law School. For the past 12 years he has been a member of the Board of Education of Eastchester, New York, and ser\-ed as president of the Board for two years. He is also a member of the Board of Trustees of the Public Health Nursing Organization of Eastchester. 
Mr. Tiedemann is married to the former Jean Welch of Westfield, New York. They have four children, aged si.N to 16. 
From tliL' Alumni Oflice: JOSEPH C. KRE.MER was rcccnlly appointed general manager of Dodge Steel Co., Philadelphia, coming from metallurgical positions in the Toundr}' divisions of Ford and General Motors. Tlie Kremers have three children. WILLIA.M .M. O'HERN, an erstu-hile classmate who eventually finished at St. Ed's in Te.\as, is corporate director of public relations and advertising for Lear, Inc., Santa Monica, Calif. Bill has also been director of publicity for United Air Lines. WALTER C. IVANCEVIC was elected president of Tlic Equity Corp., New York, as well as a director and member of the e.\ecutive committee. Walter, who had previously been ser^'ing as executive vice-president of the investment company, lives in Ro>«iyton. Conn. JOHN T. DUNL^U'^' is manager of corporate publicity in the public relations depart­ment of Allied Chemical Corp. The Dunlavys live in Riverdale. N.V., with their three children. Best of luck to former Buffalo Bills coach BOB DOVE in his coming trials as head football coach at 
Hiram College, Hiram, Ohio. Bob has already had a great career as a lineman with the Chicago Cardinals and Detroit Lions. 
1944 
George BarisciUo, Jr. 
416 Burlington Ave. 
Bradley Beach, N.J. 
REU.VIO.V RECISTR,\.NTS JOSEPH O'KEEFE, GEORGE WUE.\DT. 

JOE SIMOXS was recently transferred from New York to Houston when the Humble Oil main oflice was moved to Texas. He is in the controller's department coordinating data processing and s>-stcins %vork. 
Another Tc^as classmate is FRANK CROWXEY, county commissioner in Dallas. Prior to being elected, Frank ser\ed as administrative assistant to Bruce Alger, Texas' lone Republican congressman. 
JOHN F. COLLINS writes from Pittsburgh that he was transferred from the Chicago office of Union Carbide Metals Company to the Pittsburgh office where he is the new region manager for the company. He is in contact with JLM RETTER, sales manager for Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Company in Boston. 
Another recent transferee Is "BUZZ" HASSETT, who moved from Milwaukee to Atlanta with Storer Broadcasting. Company. **Buzz" is general sales manager for WAG.-\ Television in Atlanta, and assures us he will be on hand for our 20th Reunion in 'G4. 
ED DRINKARD had a recent \-isit in Farming-dale, Long Island, with JOHN MORRISON, %vho is one of Repubh'c AWation's top mathematicians in the research and development group. On his Long Island business trip, Ed 'phoned DICK HAHN at Sperry Gyroscope in Syosset and learned the Hahns were expecting their seventh momentarily. 
A recent report from BILL McNAMARA brought us up to date on his activities since our halcyon days. After a stint with the FBI, the Treasury Department and the Thoroughbred Racing Protective Bureau, Bill became manager of the Cleveland office of William J. Burns International Detective .Agcnc>-. He is in contact with "BLACK JOHN" .MURPHY and sees JACK DOYLE in Clei-eland. 
We received a brochure from FARRELL QUIN­LAN, announcing the opening of his newest Quintan resort, Tlic Loomarwick, on Lake Waramaug in Nctv Preston, Connecticut. Color photographs in the circular point up the beauties of the place, and the rates are equally attractive. 
BILL WALDRON, our eastern vice-president, is able to answer CESAR MUNECAS* question about JOE KEARNEY. Joe was at the Universal Notre Dome night in Newark last spring and cran be reached at 26 Oakwood Drive, Packonac Lake, New Jersey, where he and his wife arc raising six little ones. Bill abo informs us JACK UHITELY made the New York Times recently when he was elected vice-president and president of Ameracc Corporation In quick succession. And ^\'aIdron also reports on MYLES KELLY, who is operating a roofing material supply business in Newark, and JOE GALL who has moved back to Nashua, New Hampshire, practicing law. 
It is with deep regret that we record the passing of PAUL L. LALLYy who died at his home In Milford, Massachusetts, last February 3, 1962, after a short illness. Paul leaves a. wife Virginia and four daughters — Patricia, Mary, Margaret and Joan — and we need not be reminded to remember him and all other deceased members of our class In our daily prayers. 
Tlie closing dates for succeeding Issues of the ALU.MNUS are .August Ist and October 15th. Please let me hear from you. 
From the Alumni Office: JOSEPH F, GALL of Nashua, N.H., requested prayers and requested the Class be notified of the death of his brother Andrew in Superior, Wis., last April. Please Include Joe's brother In your intentions. THEODORE T. TOOLE has been made vice-president and assistant to the president of Singer-Fidelity, Inc., manufacturer of knitting ma-
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 65 

chincrv*. Finallv, congratulations to N.Y. Supreme Court'justice WILLUM B. LAWLESS, JR., on a dotible triumph. Bill was named X.D. Man of the Year in Buffalo and returned to the campus in June to direct a very successful pre-rcunion Trial Lauycrs Conference of the N.D. Law Assn. 
1945 
Frank M. Linchan 
29 Burr Drive 
Dalton, Al^ssachusctts 

Thanks to BOB RIORDAX, we have some news from South of the Border. On one of his recent trips to South America, Bob spent some time u-ith ENRIQUE LULLI in Lima. Peru. "Coco" is in the textbook publishing business and also has an office equipment distributorship. He had just re­turned from a trip around the world. Bob, Coco and his wife "Gaby," had quite a lime at the track on Saturday afternoon and, according to Bob, **Gaby" picked the winners with her uncanny s>-stem. 
The former Scliolastic editor also saw WALTER LAXGFORD who is doing an outstanding job as director of the Peace Corps in Chile. Bob is ser\-ing notice on LARRY RO.MAGOZA and JOE CAR­OENOS that he will be contacting them the next time through Panama. 
To FRANK GILLIG.'\N, we express the sy-mpalhy and prayers of his classmates on the recent death of his wife. Frank's address is 3045 Erie .Avenue, Cincinnati 8, Ohio. 
A short note from F.ATHER HAROLD ZINK, C.S.C., *47, who is stationed at St. Mxuy-'s Cathedral, Austin, Texas, endorsing GEORGE "THE BE.AK*' KEEGAN's suggestion of trving to get a reunion together of the "boys" that started in "42. Father Harold started out as a ''civic" and then entered the sem. 
Your secretary is a glutton for punishment or some may say *'trying to keep up witli his pre­decessor" in that I have taken on another alumni job, president of the X.D. Club of the Berkshires. With a new daughter arriving last February*. I can attest that I keep mighty busy. 
Our class treasurer JIM DONNELLY, tr\ing to break into Broadway or ofT-Broadway shows after gaining theatrical experience with his "Parish Players,** reported in t^vice this year. He has appeared in a couple of productions but nevxr reported that he has a speaking part. Jim and Maiy Lou just celebrated their 6th wedding annivcrsarv". 
They are looking at St. ^fa^^''s catalogs for they have three daughters. Jim also teaches high school boys in the Confraternity program. I guess he figures he has to get out of the house and sec some boys. He heard from ED MULCAIR who is Branch Manager of Montreal Life Insurance Com­pany in Ottawa. 
HANK PIS.ANKO is a Commander with the 7th Fleet and makes his headquarters at Guam. He is planning on making our 20th reunion in *65. 
Those paving dues as of Mav 7th were: RUDY ANDERSON, ED BALL, TOM BERGLV, BILL BLAKE, JOHN BRESN.\H.AN. JOHN CARON. JULES CATTIE, DON CISLE, DON CL.AEYS, JIM CLYNES, BOB CRONIN, VINCE CUSHING, BILL DAVIS, GEORGE DESPOT, JLM DO.V­NELLY, OWEN DOYLE, JLM DUGAN. BOB ERKINS, BILL F.ANIZZI, ED FAUST, FRANK FITZGIBBONS, MIKE GARRY, ELMER GILLES­PIE, BOB GORSKI, JOHN GUTHRIE, JOE HAGGAR, JLM HINES, JOHN HOSBEIN, J.ACK KEARNEY, R.AY KOPITUK, JOHN LAVERY, CHARLES LESLIE, AL LES.MEZ, FR.\NK LINE­HAN, DICK MARTIN, FR.ANK MARTIN, JOILN McGRANE, ED MULOMR, D.AVE .MURPHY, JIM O'CONNOR, BOB OTOOLE, HENRY P.AYNE, BOB PHILPOTT, HENRY PIS.ANKO. ANTHON^Y PIZZARELLI, ERNIE RAUSCHER, BILL RAWXINS, ANTHO.VY RENZE, JLM RETTER, JOHN RINELLA. BOB RIORDAN, LARRY ROMAGOSA, BILL ROSANELLI, LEO RUAF, HARRY RYAN, JOHN RYAN, DICK SADOWSKI, CHARLES SCHWINN. EMMET SHEERAN, BRYCE SMFTH, REM TO.VER. and HARRY WALTERS. 
66 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1962 
MORTON R. GOODMAN, '30, was honored as Los Angeles' Notre Dame Man of the Year in joint U.N.D. Night ceremonies of four Southern California Clubs. In first picture Goodman (right) accepts plaque from Leo Ward, '20, as toastmastcr Walter O'Keefe, '21 
(standing), and chairman Dwain Spencer, '56, beam approval. At right arc retiring presidents of the four sponsoring Clubs (L-r.): Jack Leonard, San Fernando Valley; Goodman, Los Angeles; Benjamin B. Salvaty, Jr., San Gabriel Valley; and Edward Sheeran^ Greater Long Beach. Dinner was held last April 30 in Los Angeles, Calif. 
If you haven't sent your dues in yet, how about doing* so TOD.AY? 
1946 
Peter P. Richiski 6 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Conn. 
From the Alumni Office: 
C. JAMES PARIS, supervisor of station services at Lockheed Missiles and Space Hawaiian Tracking Station, writes from Honolulu: "TIic vaunted 'romantic tropical nights' of Hawaii have produced a fourth heir to the Paris 'fortune.' He vv-as named Patrick Kimo Paris, the Kimo being Hawaiian for James. He was bom on April 14 at the Queen's Hospital. The others arc Suzanne, 7; Cynthia, 4; and Kevin, 3, all bom in California. Gloria and I like Hawaii very well. We have a beautiful home, with the Pacific Ocean as back boundary of the lot on which it*s located. Tlie pounding surf lulls us to sleep at night." Jim has been 10 years with Lockheed and remains in the satellite field. "My present position is a notch below the station manager title I held at Kodlak, Alaska, but I consider the trade-off of title for location a fair one. . . . My new home address is 87-681 Farring­ton Highway. Maili, Waianae, Hawaii." 
ARTHUR B. CONNORS, former assistant district sales manager in Boston, is now distribution manager of the Lincoln-Mcrcurv- division of Ford Motor Co. A B.N.S., Art has been marketing for Ford in Boston since 1949. 
1947 
Jack Miles 
3218 Bentlcy Lane 
South Bend, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRANTS J.AMES J. ATKINSON, MARK J. BANNON, JOHN L. BEAU, LUIS BELTRANENA, WILLIAM 
D. CLARK, FRANCIS S. COLEMAN, DONALD 
W. FISHER, JAMES FFFZCERALD, JOHN R. GALLOWAY, FRANCIS P. GILHOOLEY, ROB­ERT J. KELLY, JOHN F. LILL, JAMES E. McCLINTOCK, \\1LLUM A. McCOR.\!ICK, JR., THOMAS M. MoGUIRE, DONALD J. Mc-GR.ATH, JACK MILES, RALPH MORTENSON, JOHN J. MULLEN. JAMES E. MURPHY, THOMAS E. NIQUETTE, JOHN C. NOONAN. JR., PETER G. RUCANO, THOMAS E. SCHREIBER, EDWARD J. SWEENEY, FRANK 
S. SZYMANSKI, HOMER WALTERS, JEROME 
W. WAYNO, J. L. "BUD" WTLLENBRINK. 
CRAZY SCHEDULE 

Since deadline for this column comes a month before the reunion, whatever news it figures to contain will be old hat in the wake of the June 8-10 week end; however, there arc a few interesting bits of blurb to pass along, and questionnaire replies have yielded a number of cogent comment]^ and relc\-ant revelations. " 
SPOTLIGHT CLASSMATE 

The *'most generous individual private donor in the University's history** is a member of our class . . . IGNATIUS A. O'SHAUGHNESSY, known to us all during undergrad days as "'Good ol* I. A." Actually, Mr. O'Shaughnessy received an honorary* degree in 1947; since that time, he has donated the $2J4 million Hall of Liberal and Fine .Arts which bears his name, the Mestrovic Sculpture Studio, and just recently a cool million toward the Library- drive. In your behalf I thank Mr. O'Shaugh­nessy and express pride in his association with our class. ^ 
GLEANINGS ^ 

Pegg>- and ELMER .MAURICE .MATTHEWS welcomed 8 lb., 10 oz. Elmer Maurice Matthews, Jr., March 21; he has been entered in the future book as a solid bet to matriculate at Notre Dame in September, 1980, 
When FR.ANK CIZON spoke to the Catholic Charities folks in South Bend recently, we learned via newspaper publicity that he is married and the father of two children; has been a sociolog>­teacher at Loyola of Chicago since 1933, also a lecturer in the university's School of Social Work; and is considered a research expert in such fields as the family, social psychiatrv*, industrial socioIog>'. and parish sociology'. 
.An early spring edition of Human Events, the weekly Washington newsletter, praised the role played by one of our number in the G.O.P. resurgence which captured a Supreme Court sea ^ in Pennsylvania last fall. The story read, in part" *'The task of holding down the Democrats in Philadelphia fell largely to WILLIAM MEEH.AN, son and heir of the late Republican chieftain. .Austin Mcehan, and a power in his own right. . . . In Philadelphia . . . (the Democrat nominee) was held down to 83,000 votes (30,000 ahead of the city ticket, but far under what she hoped for) . . . ' 
EPISTOLARY EXCERPTS 

From SAM ADELO, who enclosed a ne^vspape^ review saluting the Notre Dame Band's concert i:^' Fort Worth: " finallv back in the states after a three months absence . . . enjoyed a nice visit with 
^.PROFESSOR PAUL BARTHOLOMEW at the In­
kvstitmc for the Oil and Gas Industry* Management on Public Relations and Public Affairs held at the SMU Law School. . .. . Paul delivered an excellent talk on 'Management and Practical Politics.' *' BROTHER IVAN DOLAN, C.S.C.: "Still ^vo^k­ing away at my school house. Sometimes wonder if I will ever get it finished. Have been using some of the classrooms since January and hope to use all of them from the next academic session begin­ning in July." JOHN F. AUHER: "Terrible illness in family .. . wife seriously injured by automobile: Prav for us!" DONALD R. HAINES, Lcdr, US.\: "Am sta­tioned at Naval Supply Center, San Diego, as director of data processing department. Wife, ^Phyllis, and sons Mike, 9, and Bruce, 8." 
•^ BOB MERZ: "Taking over the general agency for Manhattan Life of X.Y. in Portland, Ore., and w*ill be moving at reunion time." 
JACK McLAUGHLIN: "Am practicing surgery in Birmingham, Mich.; family numbers five chil­dren." 
DR. BILL RUEVE: "I am completing my residency- in obstetrics at the University of Okla­homa this July." 
JIM SHEA reports he's a teacher in Pearl River, N.y.; E. A. WOZNICKI ditto in Bedford, Ohio. PHIL REITHER: "With seven children and time spent out of town, it's impossible to do everything you would like. Even though I spent only a year during the war in the Marine Corps at Notre fkDamc, Tvc appreciated the many Alumni mailings." *^ JOE McNAMARA: "I'd love to be with you but will be in the process of moving to Florida." 
DR. ART WAGNER: "Hello to all my long lost good friends and a special hello to roommates GRANT THORESON and JED PAUI^wherc arc you?" 
THURMAN COSS: "I am now enjoying my first sabbatical leave from Hamline University and working on a manuscript which I hope will be published in the near future. My special area of research is the Dead Sea Scrolls." 
PHIL DELINCKE: "Have added tax consulting and bookkeeping to my 'free-time' schedule. Hope the 15th is the biggest and best yet!" 
JOHN NABER is with the 68-ycar-old family enterprise, Naber & Co., lands and securities dealers in Shawano, Wis. 
I LYNN BRYAN: "After 13 years with the Beverly Hills Citizen (only daily newspaper in B.H.), my publbher bought the Holl>-wood Citizen-News. At the same time, two Los Angeles metropolitan newspapers quit publication; so with our merger we became the third newspaper in L. A." Lynn is advertising manager of the paper. 
JOHN AGNONE: "I really want to make it and will try to ver>* much. It would be great to sec all the fellows. I miss the campus more than I ever imagined . . . the greatest place on this earth." 
The mail also has brought a complimentary copy 
of The Unfinished Reformation, with foreword to .the English translation written by FATHER PAT ^DOL/\N, C.S.C.; the book—"squarely in lite spirit 
of the ecumenical movement . . . from the Protes­tant side"—is the work of five German Lutheran ministers. 
ADDRESS CH.ANGES .. . . . . have been received for DON K^\NE, JOHN GL.\AB, M.AX SARFF, ED CROWE, JOE THIE, CARL ERICKSON, MONTA HOLZWORTH, JOE GUION, ED DESLOGE, DR. JOE FINNEY, BILL NOLTE, ALFREDO SMITH, REV. WALTER O. BOZEK, DR. GERALD RIORDxVN, GEORGE SCHNEIDER, DR. JOHN GL.VNVILLE, THE­ODORE HAVELY, JOHN LYNCH, BILL .Mc-COR.MICK, JIM O'BRIEN, a\MIEL VANDER \'OORT, BOB WATERBURY, HARRY MERCER, JOHN O'CONNOR, and LEN EISEN.MEN. 
From the Alumni Office: JACK MILES authorized a few post-deadline litems from the mail and other quarters. ROBERT 
F. MERZ, formerly general agent for Spokane office, Manhattan Life Insurance Co. of N.Y., has been moved up the ladder to take charge of their Portland, Oregon office. Bob was president of the 
X.D. Club of Spokane in 1960. He also served as president of The Scrra Club this past year. BILL JANN continues to rise with Hertz Renl-.VCar. .Already assistant vice-president, he is also director of sales and advertising. Bill, Jo Anne and two children, Mary Gayle and William, now live in Rvc, X.Y. Since 1960 FATHER CLETUS DIRK­SON has been associate professor of political 
SAMUEL J. HAZO, '48 In Pittsburgh, Poet and Pedagogue 
Duquesnc University has had a young 
Notre Dame fwet. Dr. Samuel Hazo, as 
associate dean of its College of .Arts and 
Sciences for the past academic year. 
The post %vas newly created in view of 
the "steadily increasing enrollment in the 
College" according to a university statement 
Dr. Hazo, Duquesnc faculty member since 
1955, is associate professor of English and 
director of Freshman English. He continues 
in these posts concurrently with the recently 
assigned duties. 
Widely known as a poet and contributor 
to scholarly journals, he has been devoting 
his efforts to the humanities departments of 
the College — classics, English, journalism, 
history, modem languages, and philosophy. 
The new associate dean, who published 
poetr>' and plays in the Juggler during his 
undergraduate days at Notre Dame, received 
his master's degree from Duquesnc and the 
doctorate from the University of Pittsburgh. 
Prior to coming to Duquesne he taught at 
Shadyside Academy and from 1950 through 
1953 sen'ed as a captain with the U.S. 
Marine Corps. 
His poetry has appeared in such publica­tions as The Commonweal^ The Fiddlehead, New World Writing, and Folio. A collec­tion of his verse was published last year in Discovery and Other Poems to widespread critical appro\-al. 
.-\s associate dean, Sam is responsible to Rev. Joseph P. Moroney, dean of the Col­lege. 
science at Indiana's St. Joseph College. Capt. PAUL A. DEH.MER, JR., is a flight commander at Pope Air Force Base, North Carolina, and participated in joint scr\*icc maneuvers at Yakima, Wash., In May. Paul and ^^ar>• have four children. JIM GRIFFIN sent clips from Vend, the coin machine journal, with more info on FRANK B. O'BRIEN as new president of Sccberg Corp., the jukebox makers. Frank's home and favorite recre­ation are the same. Golf (III.). I^VWRENCE A. REISTER is an advanced underwriting assistant at John Hancock in Boston. JOHN MAHER, study­ing at the Institute of Lay Theology, U. of San Francisco, writes: ''Although I'm one of the gray­beards of the class, I'm staying with the bright young men" from other schools. John's February note, delayed somc%vhere in forwarding, requested prayers "for the spiritual comfort and reco%cry of my wife, Harriett, who %vas struck fay an automobile .. . in serious condition in St. Ilfary's Hospital with a fractured skull, brain concussion and multiple fracture of hip and pelvis." Retro­active prayers for Harriett and for the mother of JLM .MAZ.4R. Jim lost her early this year. 
1948 
John DeCant George A. Fflamn, 
Poblislicr, Inc. 38 West Fifth Street Dayton 2, Ohio 

From the .Alumni Office: Not a word from Secrctar>- JOHN DEF.ANT since he began handling the aH'airs of the Dayton 
N.D. Club, but he's probably discouraged by a lack of response to the first and only Class of '48 newsletter when he started out in this office a couple of years ago. Why not drop him a line at the address above? Just a post card mi^ t shock the scribe into \-iolent activity-. Meanwhile, some random notes from the office mail. 
JOHN E. COSGROVE wrote that he enjoyed the outstanding speeches of FATHER HESBURGH and Senator Dodd at Washington's Universal Notre Dame Night. John is assistant director for federal-state relations with the Office of Emergency Plan­ning, changed recently in title and mistakenly called OCDM In last Issue's Spotlight on John. JACK TITUS got his Ph.D. in pathoIog>- from the University of Minnesota In June. Jack, or rather Dr. Titus, was appointed a member of the medical staff at the Mayo CHnlc, Rochester, Minn., last fall, assigned to the pathology anatomy section. He attended Washington U. medical school in St. Louis and got his medical degree in 1952, served his internship at Wayne County General Hospital, Etise, Mich., and practiced medicine in Rensselaer, Ind., until 1957 when he joined the Mayo Founda­tion. Dr. Jack and his wife Beverly are both South Bend natives. JOHN A. O'CONTVOR, editor of the Monitor since 1960, still edits the archdlocesan newspaper in San Francisco but under an editor in chief named Father Francis Quinn. ROBERT D. WALSH, after nine years in Washington, D.C., the last four of them with the U.S. Information Agency, has been appointed director of membership seni-ices with the Direct Mail .Advertising Association in Ne%v York City. Bob's wife, the former Jean McDonald, was on the staff of Vogue Magazine In the fifties. They have tivo sons and a daughter. LOUIS L. SINGER Is assistant Cleveland district manager fur Dictaphone Corp. after five years zs district manager in Akron. The Singers have four sons. J. ROBERT CROWLEY of TZcw England Telephone has joined the EDP planning and ad­ministration matters sr°"P of the operations division, general departments of .American Telephone & Telegraph. Bob had been with the New England company since graduation. The Crowleys at last notice were planning to locate in the metropolifan New York area with their daughter and three sons. A classmate who took his Ph.D. in chemistry In '48, Dr. N. P.AUL KL.A.AS has become research and development manager for "Scotch-brite" abrasives manufactured by Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co., St. Paul, Minn. He has been with 3M since 1952, supcr\"ising in the new products and abrasives divisions. 
1949 
John Walker Wayne, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: WILLIAM G. LEONARD, JR., former N'.D. track captain and Olympic miler, now coaching 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 67 
track and cross countr>' at Liiitnn high school. Schenectady, X.V-. is reportedly a hot property on the Communion breakfast circuit in the Sclienec­tady area. Bill and the missus have three children. 
J. A. WILLETT has been appointed general sales manager of Concrete Products, building material division of Martin Marietta Corp., in charge of 17 district offices marketing prc-cast concrete products. He operates out of the national office in Chicago, u'hcrc he and his wife Gerr\- are parents of Ann, 18 months old. DR. JOHN F. O'DONXELL is now dircctor of the Kordite Company's international operations department, in charge of exports and overseas operations. A former instructor at M.f.T.. where he got his doctorate. John worked with DuPont for several years. He and wife Mary* have three children. J. PATRICK DOYLE is controller of the industrial division of Joy Mfg. Co.. Michigan City, Ind., moWng wife Mar\- Ellrn and their three daughters from Houston. Tex., where he had been controller of a Joy division. His mother. Mrs. Ruth Doyle, is one of the gals in the X.D. Alumni-Foundation offices. JOHN J. \\'.\LSH has been appointed municipal department manager at the Chicago head office of Cruttendon. Podesla & Miller, national investment firm. That perennial au'ard winner, FRANK SULLIVAN, won a Brotherhood .Award from the South Bend Round Table of 
N.C.C.J. ALL.AN S. -NHLLER is nou-a de\-elop­ment physicist with the IBM ComponenU Division In Poughkeepsie. N.Y., in cliarge of semi-conductor device development. Dr. and Mrs. Miller have three daughters. JAMES A. WUELLNER has been ap­pointed senior project chemist with American Oil Company's research and development staff in the Whiting, Ind.. lab. Dr. and Mrs. Wucllncr live in Gar>-. WILLLAM PFAFF has Joined the staff of the Hudson Institute, a nonprofit "think'* organ­ization subsidized by various government and pri\'ate groups for research on politics and national defense. Bill • is co-author of **The New Politics." which somehow missed mention in the .ALUMNUS last year but got fine reviews for its treatment of Inter­national afTairs. A former editor-correspondent for Commonweal, he Is already on leave from the Hudson Institute this summer working in Europe and .\sla on a Rockefeller Foundation grant for a book and with an appointment as a research fellow of the Columbia University Russian Institute. It's a little late to mention It. but journalist CARL APONE did the stor>- on F.\THER HESBURGH in the April Catholic Digest. Carl took his master's 
at Boston U., taught at St. Mary's and now does 
PAUL C. GORDON, '49 From Weave and Dribble to Wire and Cable 
Last fall Paul C. Gordon was appointed director of employee relations for Surprc­
68 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
music criticism and Sundav magazine features for the Pittsburgh Press. Finally, FATHER JOHN H. MILLER has made the Perspectives Book Club with his Yearbook of Liturgical Studies. 
1950 
Richard F. Hahn 47 Emcrsim Rd. Glen Rock, N. J. 
From the Alumni Office: An earlier issue reported erroneously that BOB RUETZ was teaching in the public schools In Springfield, Mo. Actually Bob Is an associate professor of music at Southwestern ^Ilssouri State College. Sorr>-, Bob. JOHN C. McGRODER is now manager of the Cleveland brokerage office of Con­necticut General Life. Jack and his wife Georglana live in Cleveland Heights vrith their daughter Karen. 10, and son Patrick, 9. DONALD J. KLEE has been made a district sales manager for General Electric's computer department In Denver, handling sales in Colorado, Utah. Wyoming and part of Montana. Don and wife Arlene live in Lakewood, Colo., with sons David and Kevin. R. JOHN CUNNINGHAM is president of the Midwest Stock Exchange's two operating subsidiaries, the Clearing Corporation and the Ser\'ice Corporation. 
1951 
Robert Klingcnbcrger 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. Wayne, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: Capt. JOHN H. SULLIVAN was reassigned to Griffiss Air Force Base after logistics school at Wright-Patterson, Ohio. He and wife Virginia have two children. Twins of the Law Class, HAROLD 
G. VAN TASSEL of Palatine. III., and EDWARD 
J. V.\N TASSEL of RIdgcwood. N.J., were pictured 
nant Mfg. Co., a recently acquired sub­sidiary of International Telephone and Tele­graph Corporation. In the new position, he has been responsible for all phases of per­sonnel relations for the Surprenant com­pany, one of the world's largest indepen­dent producers of insulated wire and cable. 
Prior to coming to Surprenant, Paul had served as director of employee relations for the ITT Components Di\-ision at Clifton, 
N.J. He joined the ITT System in 1957 as manager of the wage and salary admin­istration at Federal Electric Corporation in Paramus, N.J., the world-wide service divi­sion of ITT. He had been a special agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York Cit>*. 
Paul was graduated from the University with a bachelor of science degree {cum laude) in business administration. Later he was awarded a master's degree in business administration from New York University. He also attended St. John's University School of Law in Brooklyn, N.Y. At Notre Dame he was captain of the basketball team and selected on several AIl-American squads. Following graduation, he played professional basketball with the Baltimore Bullets in the former Basketball Association of America. 
A native of Baltimore, Md., Paul now makes his family home with his wife, the fonner Maureen Cadogan of New York City, and two children at Northhara, Mass. 
by UPI Tclepholo when they were admitted to practice before the U.S. Supreme Court. BERNARD^ 

J. LAVINS is now manager of manufacturing for V Aloline, III., operations of the Herman Nelson division of American Air Filter Co. Tlie Lavinses have two sons and two daughters, ages 2 to 7. 
L. WARD McCABE, JR., Is New England Life district manager in Riverhead, L.I.. N.Y.. and recently took an intensive refresher at the Boston home office. He lives in Mattltuck with wife Pat and lour children, Cathlecn, Chcr>*l, Larry and Mari- Martha. Capt. THOMAS J. REAGAN re­ceived the Air Force Commendation Medal at Hickam AFB, Hawaii, for his work at Wright-Patterson AFB before as a personnel officer. Tom and his wife Jo.Ann (daughter of the late BILL CERNEV, '25) have a son, Timothy. RICHARD 
L. TOW^'ER is now adminbtratlve assistant t"/;^ the \ice-prcsidcnl of sales, Mercedes-Benz Sales, Inc., w South Bend. A former driver safety expert with Studebaker-Packard, Dick is married and has two children. Since late Februar\- WILLIA.M F. ANHUT has been president of the Detroit Hotel i\ssn. Bill, secietary-treasurer of .\nhut Hotels (Botsford Inn. ClifTord and Imperial) follows his father and his brother John, '44, in the presidency-. He is general manager of the ClifTord and Imperial Hotels. If memory- serves DAN CONNELL Is the slated Democratic candidate for Portage Township Justice of the Peace In coming St. Joseph County elections. 
1952 
Harry h. Buch 600 Board of Trade BIdg. Wheeling, W.Va. 
REU.XIO.V REGISTRANTS 

A. JOSEPH AD.\MS, EUGENE H. ALBERS, JOSEPH F. .\LBERS, &VRL F. BACHLE, JR., EDWARD V. BALL, JOHN D. BALLAS, HENR\' 
J. BALLING, JR., FRED F. B.ANICKI, JOHN .M. ^ BANNON, JOSEPH H. BARRON, JOHN E. BARRY, RICHARD J. BASGALL, JOSEPH A. BAUTERS, WILLIAM T. BEARGIE, DONALD 
W. BEBENEK, J. ALLAN BLOUNT, THOM.AS J. BOE.MER, BYRON B. BOJI, HARRY B. BORN­HOFEN, FRANK J. BOUSKA, JOSEPH S. BOWLING, JOHN I. BRADSHAW, JAMES H. BRENNAN, THO.MAS BRITT, GEORGE W. BROWN, SOMMERS T. BROWN, WENDELL F. BUECHE, JOSEPH W. BYRNE, JOHN J. &VREY, CARL L. CARLSSO.V, JOSEPH S. CELENTO, JOHN J. CHAVANNE, CHARLES L. CHRIS­TEN, RICHARD L. CLANC\% JOHN M. CO.M­ERFORD, ROBERT C. COR^TV, ROBERT E. COSSABOON, JOHN R. COURTNEY, AN-^ THONY M. CRITELLI, GEORGE H. CROS-^ SETT, PATRICK J. CROWE, JR., HENRY F. CROWLEY, REV. THO.MAS CUNNINGHAM, RUSSELL C. DAGES, JR., EDWARD D. D'ARCY, PAUL I. DAVIS, JOHN R. DEGAN, DENNIS B. DELANEY, WILLIAM F. DELANEY, .MICHAEL DENTINO, PATRICK H. DOHERT\-, ROBERT 
E. DOLMETSCH, LEO J. DONDANVILLE, JR., RICHARD C. DONOVAN, ROBERT A. DOUGH­ERTY, L. M.-\TTHEW DUGGAN, JR., JAMES 
C. ETLING, PAUL W. EWING, CHARLES V. FALKENBERG, JR., T. J. FANNON, SALVA­TORE A. FIORELLA, EDWARD F. FOLEY, J. THOMAS FOLEY, LLOYD J. FORRESTAL, RICHARD O. GAECKLE, LOUIS B. GARIPPO, EUGENE F. GERWE, A. ROBERT GILDNER, LOUIS E. GLE.ASON, JAMES E. GOOD, JR., JAMES R. GRAHAM, JOHN H. GUISE, JAMES 
D. HAGGERT\-, GEORGE M. HALEY, THOM­AS L. HAMPTON, FRED J. HARTMAN, ROBERT ^ 
F. H.ASSE, PATRICK W. HAWLEY, GEORGE L. W HEIDKAMP, GEORGE F. HEIMEL, GEORGE F. HERO, JOHN P. HIPSKIND, GERARD F. JIRKA, JAMES R. KELLY, .MICHAEL F. KEL­LY, M. HAYES KENNEDY, ROBERT KIENS­TRA, ROBERT H. KING, THOMAS R. KING, JOHN D, KINVILLE, REV. THOMAS .M. KIRBY, ROL,\ND A. KOHLBECK, DAVID E. LAJOIE, JOSEPH D. LAUFERSWEILER, JOHN 
P. LONG, LAWRENCE P. .McDONNELL, JOHN 
F. .McGLINN, RICHARD W. .McKENNA, FRAN­CIS J. McMANUS, JAMES P. .MANNING, JOHN ^ 
G. .MARHOEFER, WILLIA.M J. -MARTIN, FRA.N-^ 
CIS A. MARZOLF, JACK J. .MAYL, JOHN F. 
jilEiVNEY, LOUIS H. MEECE, ROBERT H. 
WIOONEY, JR., NE,\L P. MOORE, JOHN P. -\10R;\N, JOHN R. MORAN, JR., JOSEPH A. .MORIARTY. MATTHEW J. .MORRIS, L. NICH­OLAS MUELHAUPT, JOHN E. MUELLER, JR., DONALD T. MULLANEY, J. WILLIA.M .MUR­PHY, .MAURICE .MUKPHY, JAMES F. .MUT­SCHELLER, HARRY C. NESTER, PATRICK G. .NEVILLE, JOHN E. O'BRIE-X, JOSEPH C. O'CONNOR, TERRENCE E. O'LOUGHLIN, JOHN F. O'.NEILL, ED.MUND "BUD" ORR, JAMES P. 0'SHE.\, ROBERT M. PECKELS, REV. ARTHUR R. PERRY, E. JOSEPH PFAFF, DO.VALD B. PIERSO.V, RICHARD PILGER, JOHN K. PLOUFF, RUDOLPH E. POVSE, JOHN J. POWERS, FRANCIS P. QUINL;\N, 
: D.WID L. RICHARD, R,\LPH .M. RICHARD, AAME S G. RICHESON, DONALD G. RILEY, FR,\NCIS X. ROCHE, PETER RILEY, ROBERT 
H. RUBERY, ANTHONY L. RUSSO, EDWIN "NED" RYAN, JR., WILLIAM A. SANTLXI, JR., ALVI.N J. SAVINELL, CHARLES E. SCHAEF­FER, ROBERT A. SCHAMPIER, JERO.ME SCH.VUB, JOHN J. SCHICKEL, A. JAMES SCHMIDT, FRA.VCIS J. SEMETKO, RAY.MOND 
A. SLY.MAN, J. KEVIN SMITH, WILLIAM G. SOOS, REV. JOHN SQUILLER, JOSEPH .M. STANICHAK, LEE J. STEIDEX, LEO M. STEPANIAN, RICHARD A. STUBBING, ED­WARD F. SULLIVAN, JOHN F. SWEENEY, GEORGE R. SWEET, JOHN E. TILLIS, REV. WILLIAM A. TOOHEY, C.S.C., PHILIP B. TOOLE, JAMES E. TWEEDY, RUDOLPH M. ^NGER , JOHN P. URBAIN, FR,\NCIS J. VI­
WELLI, MALHAM WAKIN, JAMES J. WALSH, HENRY J. WANNER, JR., ROBERT E. WEI­GAND, CL,\RENCE D. WEILj\ND, RICHARD WEILER, ROBERT J. WHITE, WILLIA.M F. WHITE, R,VY.MOND W. WID.MAR, D.WID H. WILL, C. ROBERT WRAY', JOHN F. ZIEL, LEO R. Z.MUDZINSKI. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Congratulations to .\Ir. and .Mrs. RALPH .MYERS, the Christian Family Movement of Holy Cnws Parisli, South Bend, and Ralph's pastor, REV. WALTER HIGGINS, C.S.C., for their recent project, the Holy Cross Senior Citizens Center, one of the first .such centers, if not the first, undertalten by a Catholic parish. Ralph and Ruth led the program. The Center opened in May with 
ak permanent staff in a reno\'ated building near the 
Church for daily ser\-ice to 150 reliled parisliioncrs of Holy Cross. JOHN J. POWERS, the former Scholastic editor, now managing editor of the South Bend Tribune, scr\'cd as the **roastmaster" for satiric introductions of tlie political figures and other celebrities at the South Bend Press Club's annual Gridiron Dinner April 30. Jack was 1960-61 president of the Indiana /Vssocialed Press. ROBERT 
J. KAPISH is manager of the Centura' general office of New* York Life Insurance Co. in Chicago. Earlier Bob was rather well known as an athlete. EUGENE F. FOR/\N, JR., has become a partner in the law firm of Monroe & McGaugney in Decatur, III. Gene has been ver>" active in the 
fcecalur .\.D . Club. DR. WILLIAM A. RAGAN, the only Class Ph.D. mentioned this time, is now technical superintendent of ttie DuPont plant in Florence, S.C. A research chemist with DuPont since graduation. Bill went to Florence from' a similar job in Circleville, O. He and his wife, Mar>* Irene, have five children, John David. William .A. Jr., Kathleen, Bridget and Christine. 
1953 
David A. McElvain 2328 Alexander Terr. Homewood, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

JOHN T. CUNNINGHAM, BRIAN B. DUFF, EDWARD NOONAN, RICHARD I. SCHOEN­FELDER. 
Your reporter has been directed to edit and Keletc all unnecessarv' trivia from the column in ^l e interest of brevity, so be prepared to un-
WILLIAM W. HOBAN, '48 
In California, an Incandescent Prcxy 
The Board of Directors of Incandescent Supply Company of California elected Wil­liam Hoban, as president and chief executive officer late last year. Incandescent Supply Company serves as management company for twelve electrical supply, fixture, appli­ance and houseware corporations doing busi­ness in Northern California as Incandescent Supply Company of Phillips & Edwards Elec­tric Corporation. 
In announcing the election, R. D. Col-bum, Chicago industrialist and board chair­man of Incandescent and afBliated com­panies, stated that Bill would bring long term management continuity during the company's period of dynamic expansion. 
Formerly Northern California District Manager for the Toastmaster Division of McGraw Edison Company, Bill was bom in Elgin, Illinois. He attended schools in Elgin before matriculating and playing varsity bas­ketball at Notre Dame. He ser\*ed in the Navy as a Supply Corps officer, attaining the rank of Lieutenant. In 1954 he Joined McGraw Edison Co. as Denver district man­ager. In 1955 he was transferred to the San Francisco position. 
Bill and his wife, the former Jane Des­mond of Pasadena, live in San Mateo. .An ardent golfer and swimmer, he is a member of the Olympic and World Trade Clubs and past president of the N.D. Club of Northem California, San Francisco Chapter of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
Bill's father was the late Judge Thomas J. Hoban, '18, and his brother is Dr. Thomas 
J. Hoban, '45, of Dundee, Illinois. 
scramble a few abbrcWations and finisb some uii­fiiiishcd sentences. Jfere goes; 
MIKE McKINSTRA utti be ordamed to the Holy Priestbood on May 19, and will offer bis first Mass tbe following day in Freeport, Illinois.' JOHN FISH sent a ver>* nctvswortby letter, wbich I quote in part: **PAUL TAGLIA was admitted to tbe Michigan Bar recently. JERRY KELLY is a stock­broker with Kenowcr, MacArtbur &. Associates and is e.xpectin5 Xo. 5 which will tie him with yours truly. LOU BASSO is practicing law in Detroit. JI.M KLINK is a lawyer, CPA, and hell of a poor loser in a bridge game; also has four children. LARRY EATON is working for a bank in Eaton, Colo." I failed to mention that John is an attorney in Dearborn with the firm of Fish & Fish. Many thanks for tbe news, John. 
DICK PETRARCA is city attorney of Chicago Heighu and has a law office there. Dick ser\ed as assistant state's attorney- in Cook County from 1957 until I960, when he moved to his present position. Dick is the father of two boys. FRANK AVOIDAT is regional sales manager of tbe midwest office of Spring Mills, Inc. He and his wife Marilyn reside in Oak Park, III., and have a daughter born last February 6th. 
J.J. 0*TOOLE is assistant corporation Counsel for the City of Chicago, has two children. RENE ORILLAC is a civil engineer and partner in a construction firm in Panama, and has three offspring. FR^VNK O'CONNOR taught business for three years at N.D., and is now a data processing sales representative for National Cash Register in Dayton. Frank is well up in tbe production statistics with six children. DICK NIXON has given up politics, turned to medicine, and is in residenc>' at Cook County Hospital in Chicago. 
DICK NAULT relates that he had a fabulous week-end visit with BUD MA5SMAN in Kansas City recently. Dick is senior sales engineer with Minneapolis Honej'well's militarx* products group, and lives in Woodland Hills, Calif., with bis wife and four children. .MIKE PETRICK is associate chemical engineer with Argonne National Labs., lives in JoHet and has two children. EUGENE PONGRA'I'Z is a CP.-\ and works for Aerojet in Sacramento. FRANK PAVALKO has a setup that's hard to beat: English instructor at the Chaminade College of Honolulu! CHUCK PFTCHFORD, an­other father of si-\, is a captain in the USMC stationed at Jacksonville. STEVE PALKO is a draftsman with the Phelps Dodge Corporation. 
REG PHILBIN is another of our number who has made a splash in show business on the West Coast. Reg is a television newscaster on KOGO-TV in San Diego, and recently inter\*tewed Frank Leahy. GUY PRISCO recently opened bis archi­tectural office in Aurora. Illinois. JOHN PETERS is prosecuting attorney for Kalamazoo County, Mich. ED O'CONNOR is assistant cashier and manager of a branch of the Indiana National Bank in Indianapolis. Ed has five children. Which brings to mind that I ran into CHARLIE STLMMING at the IBM Test Center in Chicago a few weeks back. Charlie is with Indiana Bell Telephone, and was married last year. BERT PROBST is a research metallurgist with NAS.A in Cleveland. JOHN PECK is contract administrator %vitb the BendLx Missile Division in Misbawaka. TOM O'BRIEN IS a Chr^'sIcr-PIymouth dealer in Indianap­olis, and takes the family man honors' for this issue with 754 children. Can anyone lop that? 
Tliat's the extent of my gossip for this issue. AVe'd like to hear from all of you so jot a quick note on a post card and send it along. 
From the Alumn! Office: In June ROBERT K. WAGNER became public relations manager of Hoppers Co., Inc. Bob has been assistant manager of advertising and public relations since I960 and with Koppers since gradua­tion. Based in Pittsburgh, Bob and his wife have three children and live in Bethel Park, Pa. JOHN 
T. ELSON is now religion editor of Time Magazine. He first came to prominence in April with bis cover 5tor>' on Protestant theologian Karl Bartb. John is the son of Robert T. Elson, chief of Time's London Bureau. BERNARD ALFORD WOOD and wife are parents of their second, Mary Ruth Kathleen, the first two names borrowed from her mother. Tlieir son, B.A. Wood III, is called Angus. The Woods live in Eau Gatlie, Fla., and .-M is associated with the Orlando Sentinel papers. In April TI.MOTHY J. KETT was a candidate for the Palatine (III.) High School Board, but we don't know how he fared. Tim is a training writer for the Chicago home office of Allstate Insurance. He got his M.A. at N.D. in 1955 on a Rockefeller grant, was an educational specialist at tbe Tokyo Army Education Center, is now a Jaycee and Junior Achie\'ement advisor. Tim and Nanc>- arc parents of Michael, Catherine and JuUe-Marte. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 69 
1954 
Afilton J. Beaudiiic 
76 East Court Dr. Decatur, IHinois 
REUNION* REGISTRANT RICHARD F. McNAMAR^V. 

Tlic power of the press is amazing! After the last article at least one bachelor, realizing he ^^'as 30 and over the hill, rushed out and popped the big question. Miss Sheila Brick has accepted tlie proposal of ED ''NED" SEIM, both from Wausau, Wise, and as of July 14, 1962 NVd will no longer be over the hill, (He*ll be under it.) Tltanks, Ned, but you didn't have to go that far just to make this writer look good. In answer to another question I received a reply from DON HICKS, who is the proud father of seven (our leader at the clubhouse turn). Don and wcarv­spouse have four bo>*5 and three girls. Tlie oldest is 8 and the youngest 6 montlis. Don runs and ownSj I might add, the **Ma\-an Dude Ranch'* in the scenic country-side of Bandera, Texas. The brochure enclosed with Don's letter was most interesting and I'm sure Don would be glad to hear from any of you concerning a Texas vacation. (For this I get half rates.) Just received a note from FRED MANGIALARDI, 2235 23rd Ave,, Rockford, III. Fred is in charge of sales of Con­solidated Freightwa>-s for the N. III., S. Wis, area. Glad to hear you're planning to make the reunion party after the Purdue game, Fred. JIM BUCKEN­MYER \mtes that he has been accepted at \\'a5hing­ton U. in St. Louis, where he will lecture and work towards his D.B.A. in the fall. Jim has a boy and a girl and one on the way. ZklANNY SEQUEIRA reports the birth of his third son, Peter Anthony, on Jan. 22, weighing in at 7 lbs, 4 oz. ^lanny is specializing in admiralty law since graduation from N.D.'s Law Scliool and is witli the law firm of Hill, Rivkins, Louis & \Vab­
burton, 96 Fulton St., New York 38, N.Y. (Manny's looking for VAL CHUN's address, so give it to him, Val.) ROCKNE MORRISSEY is in the construction industry in *'PIlauniville" (Dayton, Ohio, 4824 Harlou Dr.). Rock has two sons launched by the former Gail Lonneman of Cin­cinnati. He also expects to make the Purdue game. 
A question: "Is PAUL KELLY really married?" RON MAZZOLl, 415 Eastern Pkw>-., Louisville 17, Kentucky, WTOte a real nice letter—thanks, Ron. After graduation, Ron ser\cd a two-yr. hitch in the Army, spending part of the time in Alaska where he ran into FRED BRAND and \-arious Eskimos. Upon hts return to Derbytown Ron studied at, and graduated from, U. of Louisville Law Scliool in '60. He then joined the legal dept. of the Louisville & Nashville R.R. Co., head­quartered in Louis\'illc. He married Helen Dillon in August, 1959, and was blessed with a boy, Michael, on Sept. 5, 19GL Ron reports that: WALT WAGNER owns Louisville and a real estate co. AValt was married with BILL MORLEY, GENE HOWLEY, BILL REYNOLDS and ED MADIGAD in attendance. MIKE McGRATH finished his law training at U. of L. and is now a banker. DON DAWDE N now lives in Brooklyn and is associated uith a N.Y. law firm specializing in patent work. I understand Don still wears his ear muffs. PAT CARRIC O (Class V.P.) is working for the Denver Post and HWng at 4103 Montvicw Blvd., Denver 1, Colo. TOM VIVIANO and his wife Ruth have four children and live in Florida, wlicrc Tom owns his own radio, hi-fi and stereo shop. BOB FROLICHER is with T.V. station \\'U\' in Cin­cinnati, and he and his wife Bernic have four cliildrcn. 
Latest reports indicate that JOHN "ALL-AMER­ICAN" lATTNER is back in Chi town at 4935 West End, Chi 44, III. John, what ever happened to your fat friend from Toledo? 
For 3 events and a 10-minutc expenditure you can help me out by dropping me a post card with some material to keep these articles going. For instance, what's new with you: HAL REILLY, M.D.?, BILL MIGLAS?, GEORGE HEWSON?, FRANK SHEAHAN?, JOHN "DEBBIE" REY­
70 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 
ROBERT LAWTON JONES, *49 All-Out Architect and Lay Apostle 
In Tulsa, Okla.. Bob Jones is well known as a Notre Dame Club officer, family man and community leader, but he is perhaps more widely known for t>vo passionate in­terests, total commitments to the profession of architecture and the Christian lay apos­tolate. The first has brought his firm many prizes and commissions, plus mention among "New Talent of the 60V' shaping American architecture; the second has brought him an equal measure of personal and family satis­faction. 
Licensed for Illinois in 1950, Bob en­hanced his degree in architecture {cum laude) with an M.S. in city planning from Illinois Tech and won a Fulbright grant for 
NOLDS?, LOU TABIT?, SYL S.MALDONE (room)?, DUKE "DIRTY DOZENS" DORMENT?, LE.N DURY?, BOB BURNS?. BILL SIPES?. GEORGE BRO.VX O'CO-NNELL?, LEO LAN­CIAULT?, BOBBY JOSEPH?, DAVE DEVLIN?, GEORGE BELLIS? 
Now if you'll all get tickets to the Purdue game and come to the reunion party afterwards I f:an guarantee a good time. We're lining up some live entertainment, sucli as BOB WRIGHT singing the Broadway musicals; JAKE NOONAN has a flashy trick he does with a scissors; JIM BERNHART will recap the game and JACK PITTAS and I %vill do the fandango. You all come. 
From the Alumni Office: JOHN P. MERTENS, former manager of the County Trust Co. office in Kaionah, N.Y., Joined the administrative staff of the auditing department in White Plains. Vntli wife and five children he lives in Katonah, where he's a volunteer fireman. JAMES McCO.MB opened a Chevy ageno* in Peoria, III., -May 1. JOHN W. HOUCK, assistant professor of business organization and management at the University, got a Danforth grant for 1962-63 and will work for a doctorate at Harvard Law Scliool. John got his law degree at N.D. in 1955 and is married to the former Marj* Doolcj-, daughter of the late BILL DOOLEY of Notre Dame. SISTER ALPHONSUS MARIE CHAR­BONNE, associate professor of hislorj* at Detroit's Marygrovc College, who got Iier M.A. as a summer scliool co-ed with the Class, is studying in England this summer under a program of European study for religious faculty. 
European study in 1953-54. Returning from Germany in 1954, he came to Tulsa as mai^ ager of a ci\nc center project and in the next two years took his Oklahoma architect*s license and a certificate of the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards. In 1957 he became a partner with Lee and David Murray in Murray-Jones-Murray Architects as the partner responsible for de­sign. 
Bob's craftsmanship, e.\hibited nationally and abroad in such designs as the Tulsa Municipal Airport Terminal, Sts. Peter and Paul and other churches, in schools, profesa, sional and commercial buildings, and thfe Jones "House in the Pecan Orchard,'* has helped M.-J.-M. to international honors and plaudits in Architectural Forum, Aviation 
Week, Progressive Architecture, Arts and Architecture, Zurich's Bauen und Wohnen, Liturgical Arts, Architectural Record and other journals. 
Children (Jayme, Mark, Paul, Gregory and I-aure) have kept Bob and his wife Lj-nn busy since their marriage in Chicago in 1950, deepening their concern for Chris­tian education and lay apostolate: Christia^ Family Movement (Tulsa Federation pro­gram couple); Young Christian Students (parish contact couple); National Confer­ence of Christians and Jews (Inter-Faith Dialogue, Tulsa Board of Directors, chair­manship of "Operation Metropolitan"); the social action committee, Tulsa Council of Churches (Catholic representative); and Benedictine Heights College (Board of Trus­tees). 
Bob's professional afHliations include the American Institute of Architects and its affiliated Institute of Planners. Professional and personal interests blend in such assigi^ ments as the Mayor's Committee on Urban Renewal, technical advisory committees for urban studies of the Tulsa Metropolitan Planning Commission, Oklahoma Council for Communitj* Development, Tulsa Community Relations Commission, Urban League Hous­ing Committee, and other civic activities. 
1955 
€ 
Paul Fullmer 7344 N. lUdgc Blvd. Chicago 45, Illinois 
Well, it's Just about time to get hit with the football bug again. As a long-time Chicago Cub fan, I don't get discouraged very easily. So I'm planning on hitting the old campus for a couple of games, and I hope to see many of you there, too. 
Before many more moons pass, I think I'm going to throw in the sponge and admit that my A.B classmates expended all their w*riting talents i^ scliool, and that the more scientific boys have dc\*eloped these skills since graduation. Tltis issue's "letter of the c>xle" award goes to STEVE PREVOZNIK, one of those hard-working pre-mcds during his South Bend tenure. Steve reports that he and his wife Rita have three boys and a girl and arc expecting tlic fourth member of the back­field in November. 
Steve is finishing his residcnc>' in anesthesiology at the hospital of the University of PcnnsyU-ania, and has been asked to stay on as a junior staM member. Tliis, I understand, is quite an honor iff 

^Ii c medical field. Incidentally, his address is 207 ^) . Chester Rd,, Swarthmore, Pa. Here is some more interesting dope Steve passed along. 
FORST BROAVN now is a captain in the Army Medical Corps, and is stationed outside Paris. Some guys have all ihc luck. Me—I just get '"frozen'* in the .Army rescr\c! His wife Joan and two children arc there, too, which will further affect our gold supply. 
BILL TUNELL is still "slaving away" at Bcllc\'uc Hospital as a surgical resident. JOHX p*BRIEN and his wife Barbara are living in Hartford, Conn., where John is a psychiatric resident at the Institute of the Living. (S*ow that's some name, isn't it?!) DICK Ci\PIw\ is married and living in California. Steve thinks Dick is with Douglas ^Mrcraft. 
[^^ R^VN'DALL CiVRLL is a captain in the Marines TJ^*"*! has just returned from a 354-ycar lour of duly in Taipei, Formosa. He scr\'cd as a Chinese inter­preter there. (I'd like to go to a Chinese restaurant with him and really foul up the waiter.) He now is stationed at Camp Pendleton, Calif. Randall and his wife Marilyn arc linng in Vista, Calif. What ever happened to VINOD AGARWAL, DICK ALFES, JOE BALOBECK, EMIL BAN/VS, BOB CAFFARELLI, JI.M a\HILL, GENE DALEY, KERRY DALTOX. MIKE ELLIS, GREG ESCH, BOB FARNBAUCH, JOE FARRELL, SVD GALE, FRED GALIONE, JI.M IL\ERLNG, D.WE HAGAXS, JOHN JAHODA, LEO JANKOWSKI, WALT KAVANAUGH, WAYNE KENT, BOB KERBY, DICK LANGE, WALT L*\NGFORD, ^lOH N .McCALL, and PAT Mca\XN??? O* Received a nice letter from MIKE OTOOLE the other day. Mike and his wife Mar>' have a boy and girl. Tlicir address is 41 Governor Belcher Lane, Milton, Mass. E.\cept for two years in the Army, Mike has been with the John Hancock Life Insurance Co. He is In the group annuity sales department. (Some day I'm going to get a job uith an insurance company dreaming up names for departments. They really have some lu-lus-) Mike saj-s he got a call recently from PETE SUTHERLAND, who welcomed a baby daughter a few days previously. Pete is stationed in Rhode Island. Incidentally, Mike received his M.B.A. from Boston College in June. 
The "what happened to"' line got through to J.ACK RICKLIXG, who wrote to tell ine that he joined Wcstinghouse as a consulting and application 
Aengineer after graduation. In '59 he transferred to 
'the aircraft equipment department, and last year became a design engineer for base activ'ati.'»n of the Atlas missile in the astronautics division of General Dynamics. (Col. Glenn may have a passenger next time if Jack doesn't get out before they close the hatch.) Jack was a test conductor at Forbes AFB in Topeka, and now is a senior design engineer at Lincoln (Neb.) AFB. 
Jack would like to hear from BILL McCOUL-
PROF. ALBERT AE, '57, of Nanzan University, Nagoya, Japan, anti his wife, the former Agn^ Yoshida, show their son, Michael Shigeki, 3 months old on New Year's Day, one of the reasons preventing the father from attending his Class Reunion in June. 
LOUGH, BOB MUTH, JI.M HERRING, JOHN MALLOY and TOM SUTHERL.VND. Jack's address is 24 Trcnridge Rd., Lincoln 5, Neb. 
DON LiVNSPA's wife, Barbara, finally got tired of waiting for the "old man" to sit down and write, so she did the honors. She reports that they have a son. Don now Is a super\-isor in an electronics section of a Western Electric plant. Tlieir address is 7510 Maple Lane, Raytown 38, Mo. 
JI.M SCHAEFFER has left the chemistry- dcpt. at Northwestern and now lives at 51 Belleclaire Dr., Rochester 17, N.Y. MURIL VINCELETTE went from what I considered the last frontier, Billings, Mont. (DAVE COHEN, please note), to JefTrcy City, Wyo., which sounds like something out of Gunsmoke. Kitty, I'll take a beer, like the ones they used to serve at Jocr's. 
LES KEWLEY also has gone west — from Chicago to 4921 Sparks Ave,, San Diego 10. JIM MURPHY now can be reached at -1009 Morrison Dr., Lynchburg, Va. ED OCHWAT now lives at 309 Tower Place, Anaheim, CaliL . . R^VLPH SMITH at 2BQ4 Bixbv Ave., Bemidji, Minn. . . BILL BRONDER at 19(H Marjland Parkway, Las Vegas. They'd better investigate him right away. Talked to BERT KIETZGER'S dad at UND Night, and he says that Bert is taking all classmates at reduced rates during the ^Vorld's Fair. The address is 15767 Palatine Dr., Seattle 
33. JOHN KEANE should be a candidate for the Chicago Club now thai he*s moved to 1437 Gloria Dr., Palaune, III., from Pittsburgh. 
BILL JACKSON gets his mail at 333 E. 17th St., New York 3. . . CHUCK LAIRD at 712 Ridgelawn PI., Tullahoma, Tenn. . . PAT SWEEN­EY at 1921 Fulton St., San Francisco. . . TOM SCHREfFMUELLER at 211 Chicago Blvd., Sea Girt. X.J. . . TOM PRENDERGAST at 6870 Foxcroft Dr., St. Louis. . . and BILL KREPS at 522 Cottonwood, Ardmore, Okla. 
BOB BURNS is back in service and can be reached at BOQ Building 89, McClellan AFB, Calif. BILL GL.\SS lives at The Gallery in Stark­
villc. Miss. (As Mel Allen would say, "How about that!") 
NED RYx\N sent an announcement of the open­ing of his law office in Holly^vood, Calif. Sounds real tough, Ned. You probably wear sun glasses and a beret now. DON SHANLEY is working for a foundry here in Chicago. BOB DAHLEN mar­ried the former Nannine Louise Knoerzer in March, and the couple resides at 1022 Loyola St., Chicago. JOE CONNOLLY married the former Susan Vanis on June 9 in University Heights, Ohio. In case you missed it in the last issue, DICK GLENNON married the former Susan Rankin on Feb. 3 at Plattsburgh, X.Y. 
GEORGE LAWLER got his wife, Deann, to write the news. The Lawlers just welcomed a little girl to their house. They already have George, Jr. George is an analytical chemist for Shell Oil Co. They live at 408 Hadley, Edwards-ville. 111. (Write him. Big John and IJttle John.) 
And what ever happened to AL NARDIXE, JOE NASSIF, CHARLIE O'BRIEN, DENNIS O'BRIAX, DICK PADON, FRANK PAIRITZ, BOB QUIMBY, BILL QUIRK, JOE RAFFERTY, .MI­QUEL RAMOS, LEON ST. PIERRE, GENE SALEM, RON TAGLER, ROCCO TANNONE, ED TOOMEY, CLEM URBANSKI, DICK USCHOLD, JIM VACHRIS, ANTHONY VALLACE, JOHN WACK, GENE WAGNER, ED YOHON, JIM YONKE, BOB ZALE and FRANK ZANARDI??? 
Youi3 truly had a busy and eventful spring. On UND Night I was elected second vice president of the Chicago Club. A tew days earlier I had been named assistant to the president of the Law­rence H. ScU Organization (which, after that move, I'm more convinced than ever is the best public relations firm in the country!). 
I know I speak for the whole class when I extend sympathy to JOHN RYAN and to his sister, Ginny, the wife of Frank Mater, on the death of their father, John Ryan, Sr. He was a 
PHOENIX — Campus guests were present at two successful Phoenix events last spring. At left Father Hcsbui^h attends a February Conmiunion breakfast with (h-r.) Ed Murphy, retiring president; William P. Mahoney, national alumni president, later named ambassador to Ghana; and Dr. William Dunn, president-elect of the Club. At right Father John Walsh of the N.D. Foundation appeared 
^with (!.-r.) toastmaster Ed Boyle, director of the F.B,I. in Arizona; Frank Leahy, former head football coach; and RabU Albert L. Plotkin, Notre Dame Foundation general chairman for Phoenix, at Universal Notre Dame Night observance. 
NotTe Dame AlumnuSj August, 1962 71 
wonderful man and a friend of many in our class. Also our condolences to GENE CRALLEY on tlic death of his father. John T. Crallcy. 
From the .Alumni Office: 
TOM NEVILLE and uifc Marilynn Just wel­comed their fourth child this month. Timothy Justin, bom in Canoga Park. Calif. They Iiavc two girls and a boy also. Tom no longer works for the Los Angetcs Times — he is now wiili Interior Design and Forbes magazine in advertis­ing. (21920 Strathem. Canoga Park. Calif.) Mrs. CHRISTOPHER T. FL\*NN says her hus­band is working as auditor with U.S. Steel in Chicago after two years as an accountant for the National Tube division in Elivood City. Pa. Chris is doing well, she says, and on April 5 they had a daughter. Roxaime Teresa. The Flynns arc at 151 Lester, Park Forest, 111. PAUL A. .MILLER is now manager of communications for the Evans­ville, Ind-, division of Wliirlpool Coi-p. and lives there with his wife and two childien. CHARLES 
H. MINCES, formerly with Union Carbide, has joined Allied ChemicaPs research organization at the National Aniline Dc\-elopment department, Chesterfield, Va. Capt. WALTER K. OVBRAL finished transportation training at Ft. Eustis, Va.. in March and apparently remains there with his wife Clarice. BERT METZGER, JR., %vhosc ad­dress is noted above, finished at U. of Chicago Law School last June, passed the Washington bar and joined the Seattle law firm of Bogle. Boqle & Gates. The Metzgers have two boys and a "girl. R-ALPH GUGLIELMI will be backstop­ping the N.y. Giants' Y.A. Tittle this next pro football season. "Goog" got a verv* nice profile from the N.Y. Times' Arthur Daley in May. Two classmates, FATHERS ROLAND STAIR and RALPH FISHER, CS.C , starred in a Lenten mis­sion for teen-agers in Soutli Bend last spring. 
1956 
John P. Dcasy 5697 N. Uncoln Ave. Chicago 45, Illmois 

From a report by Mr^. Gerald Trafficanda, '57: "Heard from GEORGE EDGINGTON in Fcbruarv-. His father was killed by a gun crazed man who shot up a restaurant where his dad worked on Januarv- II, 1962 in Ogden, Utah. George was previously in the seminary in St. Benedict, Oregon. He is now a salesman in Montana and Wyoming for the Kendall Companv, Bauer and Black Div. DAN LIDDV and xvifc Priscilla live at 2838 Elm-wood Dr., Rocliestcr 18, N-Y." Capt. JON L. KONZEN left his wife Claudettc with his parents in Toledo, O., until he finished orientation at medical field scr\'ice school. Brook Medical Center, Fort Sam Houston, Tex., in April. Jon had been working at City Hospital in Akron. First Ll. FREDERIC A. DEVOE, JR., no\v on a four month European mission, is a narigator with the Tactical Air Command at Scwart AFB, Tenn-, and was a crew member in exercises staged in South Carolina for the xisiting Shah of Iran in April. Fred's wife is the former Doris Peterson of Amity-ville, N.Y. JOHN J. O'CONNOR of Andowr. Mass., joined Tcxaco's sales force in April. HU­BERT J. KUZMICH is somewhat of a celebrity. Hugh's name and face were used in ads for McGann Securities Co., Inc., South Bend stock­brokers with which he's associated. BROTHER WILLIAM SCHUBMEHL, C.S.C., was given a Shell Oil Co. fellowship for adx-anced summer training in math at Cornell. Btother Bill already has his M.S. from N.D. He's the son of RAY SCHUBMEHL, '21, retiring assistant dean of engineering at the University. VIC McFADDEN 
(LL.B. '59) resigned as attorney for the St. Joseph County Legal Aid Bureau and was ap­pointed a public defender to succeed ALEX CHOLIS, '41. JOSEPH W. HENNESSY, JR., South Bend district agent for Jefferson National Life, recently qualiBcd as a chartered life under­writer. From Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, JUAN RAFAEL PACHECO, JR., wrote: "Upon my graduation I went to New York City for an eight months training program at the Chase Man­hattan Bank. After I came home I started work­ing for my Ph.D. in Law, which I have just finished at the University of Santo Domingo. . . . In April of last year I started a company called Compania Central de Creditos. C. por A., to handle property administration, collections and 
NEW JERSEY—Head tabic at annual New Jersey Alumni Club dinner in observance of "Universal ND Night" includes: {seated, l.-r.) Mrs, R. Bruce Dold; William L. Kirchner, Jr., dinner chairman; Father Hesburgh, honored guest; R. Bruce Dold, club president, and Mrs. Kirchner. (Standing, l.-r.) Peter Regan, secretary; Mrs. Regan; Henry Borda, treasurer; Miss Elizabeth Hall, John F. Sand, vice president, and Mrs. Sand. The dinner ^ was held at the Bow and Arrow Manor, West Orange, and was attended by approximately 
350 alumni and friends of the University. 
credit information. We ,arc the correspondents in the Dominican Republic for Dun &. Bradstrect, the National Assn. of Credit Management, Arthur Young & Co., etc. Right now we have taken out of our company the credit information de­partment and have formed a new company, Aso­ciacion de Creditos, C. por .A., to handle this phase. .. . Last August I got married to Maria Isabel de Marchena. We have our apartment in town and the address is Franklin D. Rooscixlt 18, Apt. 5, Santo Domingo, . . . Tilings have been pretty hectic around here for the past year, as I am sure you have all heard; but lately, thank God, cvcr^'thing is starting to simmer down and we arc all getting back to business in order to rebuild the countrj* after 31 years of dictatorship." 
1957 
Donald J. Bair 463 Briar Place Chicago 14, Ulinob 
Jack E. Casey Chicago Show Printing Co. 555 Fifth Ave. New York 17, N. Y. 

REU.VION REGISTRANTS 
JULES P. AUGSDORFER, EDWARD J. AYERS, JOHN BARANY, DONALD J. BARR, JOHN W. BEDAN, LAURENCE O. BEDFORD, DANIEL J. BEGGY, HAROLD C. BLAKESLEE, JR., ROBERT 
W. BOGG, JOHN F. BOVERI, JAMES J. BOYD, RAYMOND M. BRENNAN, FRANK R. BROPHY, RICHARD W. BROWN, ROBERT A. CALA­BRESE, JAMES P. CANNY, JR., JAMES E. CHESTNUT, JR., JAY E. CLARK, HARRY B. CONLON, JR., FRANCIS S. ".MIKE" CON­NELLY, BARRY J. CORONA, GERALD F. CROWE, JAMES D. CUSACK, JOHN W. DAIBER, 
R. AUSTIN DAILY, GEORGE S. D'AMORE, DONALD S. DOHERTY, PHILLIP J. DONA­HUE, THOMAS O. DOYLE, REV. JOHN J. DUNNIGAN, ROBERT H. DUNSEATH, WIL­LIAM J. ECHARD, RICHARD J. EGAN, LEE L. ELSEY, ROBERT F. EMENS, ROBERT D. EP­PINK, R. T. "JOE" FISCHER, DONALD H. FELDMANN, THOMAS J. FIUMARA, FRANCIS 
A. FOLEY, JR., ROBERT E. FRUIN, WILLIAM 
J. FULTZ, RICHARD C. GALLE, DONALD W. GERTH, JOHN D. GIBBS, ROBERT A. GIUX­CO, LEON C. GLOVER, MICHAEL J. GLYNN, EDWIN E. GORDON, JR., WILLIAM F. GRANT, JOHN W. GRAVES, GEORGE GROBLE, AL­BERT GUSTAINIS, JOHN B. HA.MMETT, DONALD L. HANEY, J. NORRIS HARDING, JAMES L. HARRIS, CONNOR F. HAUGH, MICHAEL R. HAYES, PAUL E. HEER, RO-A NALD W. HEINZ, JAMES B. HENEGHAN, ^ RONALD E. HENNE, FRANK W. HENNESSEY, REV. JOHN C. HENRICK, THO.MAS R. HER­MAN, MARVIN E. HOFFMAN. THOMAS V. HUGUELET, MICHAEL J. HYIAND, RICHARD 
P. JACOB, ARTHUR C. JOH.NSO.S', MANSOUR 
A. JOWID, JR., THOMAS E. KANE, THOMAS 
J. KANE, ROBERT E. KAUF.MAN, DANIEL J. KELLY, JAMES L. KINNANE, DAVID E. KLOCKE, RICHARD J. KOPITUK, EUGENE P. KOPP, PAUL J. KRAPP, ROBERT N. KUHN, STANLEY T. KUSPER, JR., ROBERT A. La-CASSE, DONALD L. LEO.NE, RICHARD .M. LEWIS, PATRICK C. LOG.AN, JOHN W. LUCEY, HENRY F. LUEPKE, ALBERT LUM, ^ 
F. G. "JERRY" LUNDEN, FRANCIS T. LUTZ, • EDWARD A. LYNCH, JR., BERNARD G. LYONS, ANDREW M. LYSAK, EDWLV "DON" McCRORY, THOMAS P. McDONALD, JA.MES .M. .McDONOUGH, JR., WILLIAM K. .McGO-WAN, JR., WILLIA.M H. McGUIRE, DOUGLAS 
E. McKAY, JOHN .McMEEL, THO.MAS J. McNULTY, DONALD E. MACHENBERG, WIL­LIAM D. MADDOX, MARK A. MALEY, E.M-I METT P. MALLOY, DONALD J. MASINI, THOMAS B. MAUS, JOHN C. MICHNO, WIU LIAM J. MOONEY, JR., JAMES C. .MORTON, JOHN D. MOYNAHAN, THOMAS L. MUL­CAHY, JR., DAVID B. MURPHY, JERE.MI.AH 
E. MURPHY, JR., JOHN F. .MURPHY, DO.N­ALD J. MURRAY, JOHN C. MURRAY, RAY­MOND V. NELSON, JR., JOHN T. NITKA, JOHN O. NOLAND, THOMAS R. O'BRYAN, DESMOND H. O'CONNELL, JR., STEPHEN C. O'DONNELL, GEORGE E. O'LEARY, -MAX R. ^ ' OLINGER, ROBERT S. O'NEIL, JOSEPH D. • PANZARELLA, JEROME F. PARMER, THOMAS 
B. PENDERGAST, KIERAN J. PHELAN, JR., LOUIS PILLIOD, JOSEPH E. POLICASTRO, REV. E. ROBERT PREMO, JAMES J. QUINN, JOHN R. REARDON, JOSEPH A. REICH, JR., FRANK K. REILLY, LEMONT RENTERGHEM, STUART W. RICHARDSON, WILLIAM C. RIGALI, THO.MAS H. RILEY, JR., JOSEPH J. RINK, JOSEPH H. ROHS, JAMES E. ROSE, RAYMOND F. ROTH, JR., THOMAS J. RYAN, RONALD J. S.ABLES, AMBROSE F. SALANSKY, ^ JOSEPH A. S.ANTOS, ARTHUR L. SAVOIE, • JOHN M. SCRIBA, PATRICK S. SHEERIN, 
72 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August^ 1962 
PETER SIGONA, JOSEPH P. SILK, JOHN J. 
^SIMMERLING, JEROME O. SLAWIK, JOHN A. 
f^SLEVIN, GERALD D. SMITH, REV. JOHN F. SMYTH, PATRICK L. SNVDER, ROBERT J. STEVENSON, MARK STOREN, JR., GEORGE 
IV.
 STRAKE, JR., DONALD J. STUHLDREHER, GREGORY W. SULLIVAN, RICHARD F. SWIFT, JOHN C. TEHAN, WILLIAM .M. TOLLE, JR., RICHARD J. TORDA, DENNIS F. TROESTER, JA.MES R. ULLRICH, J. DAVID VALAIK, WIL­LIAM A. WADDICK, RICHARD T. WALSH, MATTHEW W. WEIS, JR., STEPHEN J. WIE­WIORA, GENE P. WILSON, RICHARD M. WING, THEODORE J. WOLFE, SILAS G. WOODY, HENRY "BUZZ" WURZER, EUGENE 

W.
 YURGEALITIS, JOHN N. ZUFELT. 



^ From .Mrs. Gerald Trafficanda: •'I'm Writing 
^Jon beliald of my husband, GERRV TRAFFICANDA, '57, who is just too busy these days to take pen in hand. I am a *59 graduate of St. Mary's Col­lege and kneu' Gerry's classmates as well as others. Cerr>' moved to a new studio in October in Los Angeles and numbers Saul Bass, the well-known designer, among his clients. Advertising photog­raphy is his business and he has received a number of awards in the last couple of years. Award of excellence in 1961 from Commercial .Art Maga­zine (CA) for his photography of the film title for the motion picture 'Spariacus.* In 1960 he received another award from the same magazine for his photography for the trade ad for 'Exodus.' He received honorable mention from Western Ad­vertising for the above trade ad and also a trade ad for KMPC radio here in Los .Angeles. We 
oformerly lived in Cliatswortli but now reside in North Holl>-\vood and have two children, Dolores Maria and Christian Anthonv. 
"JOSEPH BELFIORE, my' brother-in-law. and his wife Sandy lost their first baby, a girl, Marie Mercedes, who was born on January 23 and died on Januar\- 26 — it was due to a cont;enital heart condition. Joe (1605 Connecticut Ave. X.W.. Washington, O.C.) is now taking pre-med courses at Catholic University. Joe's younger brother Wil­liam, a soph at Creighton University, was killed last June, 1961. while vacationing in Spain. He was involved in a motorcycle accident. 
"RON FRt\NCIS was visiting here and stayed with us a month or so while looking over the job prospects here in Southern California after 
/Reaving McCarthy Brothers. He left here for San 
^'Francisco where he is now employed by U.S. Leasing Corp. His home address is: 263 - 29lh Ave., San Francisco 2!. Calif. While Ron was here wc got together with DON RANIER (1630 Edgcmont, Los Angeles, Calif.). Don is still working for Continental Casualty and became engaged over the Christmas holidays. 
"BILL BAPST and his wife Sue arc expecting their fourth baby in October. They have two boys and a girl now: David, Karen and John Nfattliew. the last born July 19, 1961. Bill is with Hankins Co. in Cleveland and they have a new address: 15605 Montrose .Ave., Cleveland 11. Ohio. 
•Wc heard from ORLANDO T. .\LAlONE, 
€ 

AMONG NOTRE DAME MEN employed by General Motor's Milwaukee AC Spark Plug division (from left), Robert G. Brown, '46, associate Titan missile director, distributes copies of a G.M. rocket pamphlet adapted from his writings to John A. Laureman, '57; Harry F. Kelly, Jr., '53; and Taylor G. Benson, '54. Other AC Irish (not shown) include 
W.E. Binet, '43; J.F. Carr. '34; J.A. Chaniga, '51; R.L. Ehr, '54; J.J. Frediani, '52; D.L- Gothard, '56; T.R. Herman, '57; JJ . Karr, '40; F.A. Knopf, Jr., '57; M.J. McGuire, '50; A.R. Maas, '50; and J.M. Nielsen, '59. 
in Februar>- (58 Plainfield Rd., .Albertson, L.L. N.Y.). He wrote of moving to Palo Alto, Calif., and tr>'ing tu get back in Notre Dame. At the time, he was working for Eggers and Higgins, architects in New York. He met a gal with Special Scr\"ices while ser\'ing Uncle Sam in Italy. 
"REG BAIN received his masters in Speech and Drama from the University ol Arizona and is now teaching at Regis College, Denver, Colorado. He is getting married in September. 
"JACK KENT is now traveling in this area as Western regional director in fund raising for the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
"GEORGE O'DO.VNELL and his wife Rita have one child, a boy. George is working for Motorola, and they reside at 3223 Rocky River Dr., Cleveland 
II. Ohio. "TO.M MULCAHY and wife Sarah arc ex­pecting their third baby. 
"BILL JACKMAN. 5100-36th PL, Number 102 East Riverdale, Maryland, is technical editor ai Vitro Laboratory near Washiogtim, D.C. BUI and wife have one boy Tommy. Bill writes that T. GORDON BENNETT called him whOe he was in Boston and says that he writes a weekly advertts­ing column and is assistant prcHnotion manager for the Buffalo Courier. 
"A Christmas note from Jan and MIKE THOMP­SON. Nike Zeus is keeping Mike T. busy In New Jersey. They have one boy and a baby on the u-ay. Their address is 100 Franklin St., Apt. 7CII, Morristown, N.J.*' 
From the Alumni Office: Thanks to Mrs. TrafHcanda for the notes above and items on other classes, included in the ap­propriate columns. REV. JOHN P. SMVTH, or­dained by Cardinal Meyer on April 28, celebrated his First Solemn Mass on April 29 at St. Genevieve's in Chicago and celebrated the Class Memorial Mass in Dillon Chapel for the Fifth Anniversary Reunion. PAUL HORNUNG sai out the Re­union at Fort Riley, Kansas, recuperating from an emergency appendectomy in late May, but got his discharge in July. Paul got an admiring pro­file from Arthur Daley recently in the N.Y. Times. PATRICK C. LOGAN, former student body presi­dent, won the Pitman-Moore award (and $100) for his pharmacological know-how in the third year at Indiana U. School of Medicine, where he's vice-president of his class. Staff Sgt- WIL­LIA.M J. BARTLING put in his reserve duty at Fort Eustis, Va., and returned to work for Mon­arch Metal Co. in St. Louis. JOHN ROCKNE GUINX sent out a detailed personal report for Christmas, just recently received, describing an occupational three-ring circus: homeroom adviser­English-sociolog\*, etc.. teacher at St. Clement High, Centerline, ^lich.; lecturer in music at the 
U. of Detroit evening session; choirmaster-organist. St. Agatha's Church in Detroit. Residence: 720 Gronow St., Centerline. Mich. He's happily single and comfortable, he reports. BURTON A. LESH wrote to the Men of '57: "Sorry I won't be able to attend the big 5th, however. I'll be there in spirit. Hope to attend next year's celebration as I'll be in between military assignments. To bring you all up to date on the happenings here, I'm a captain and command this unit (Co. B, 1st Battle Group, 85th Infantry, the Cacti) at Scho­field Barracks, Hawaii. This is the home of the 25th Division, the .Army's experts on jungle fight­ing. Ann (St. Mary's '57) and I have a SOD, John, born Oct. 30, 1960. The only other '57 I have pinpointed is JOE G. CONRATH (Army captain also), flying helicopters in France. My best wishes for a "successful reunion." JOHN A. SLEVIN has formed a law partnership in Peoria, 111., leav­ing a firm in Taylor\-ille. He Uught accounting at X.D. before getting his LL.B. in '60. John and wife Mar>- have three children. JAMES M. MEE­HAN and wife Ila have moved from Ste\ensville to Birmingham. Mich. (1616 Bobolink Lane) with 

LOS ANGELES —Actress Dolores Hart (left) was a euest speaker at the 39lh annual Universal Notre Dame Nfeht dinner at die 
HoUywood-RoosevcIt Hotel, jointly sponsored by the four N.D. Clubs whose new presidents appear at right with Father Joyre, guest Ijpeaker from the campus: (I. - r.) John Franipton, San Gabriel Valley; Thomas W. Dunlay, San Fernando VaUey; Fr. Joyce; Robert Gerrais, nLos Angeles; and Frank Conaty, I^mg Beach. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 Ti 

their three children (Michael Patrick, 4; Margaret Catherine, 2; Mary Kathleen. I) when Jjm was transferred to \\Tiirlpoors Birmingham branch. L.AWRENCE V. HAM.MEL has just commenced employment as a highway rcscardi engineer with the Washington, D.C, Department of Highways and Traffic, assigned to the metropolitan trans­portation study. He and Marianne have a daughter, Susan, and expected a second child around May. ALBERT S. AE now lives at 37 Yamazatocho, Showaku, Xagoya, Japan, where he is an assistant professor of bioIog>* at Xanzan, the Catholic uni­versity of Xagoya. In 1960 he married Agnes Hisa Yoshida at the X'anzan Church, and son Michael Shigeki was bom Sept. 27, 1961. He enclosed a picture taken on Xew Year's Day. First Lt. AL­BERT C. REICHERT III has been sivom in as a regular in the .•\ir Force at Orlando APB, Fla. He and wife Marilyn have three children. AL WIEDERKEHR, Alius, .Ark.. lias a scliolarship under the International Farm Youth Excliangc Pro­gram for study in France. He left in April and should return in Xovcmbcr. Besides law at the 
U. of .Arkansas. Al took up viticulture at the 
U. of California while working in the family vinc\'ards and winerx*, doing a lot of experimental work with hybrid grape strains. Before the trip to France he was on active duty with the I84th Tactical Reconnaisance Squadron at Fort Smitli. His address until Xovember will be Centre Xa­tional des Jeunes Agriculteurs, 14 Rue la Boctic, Paris 8E. Sp./4 JOSEPH H. ROHS kept his wife Claire home in Brentwood, Mo., while he put, in his annual active dutv at Fort Eustis, Va. And PFC JOHN R. SUTTNER, whose 544ih Ordnance Co. was reactivated, weathered maneuvers in Louisiana, taking his wife Carole along. REV. JOHN C. HENRICK, HI was ordained by Bishop .Adrian of Xashxillc on May 26 and celebrated his First Solemn Mass at Christ the King Churcli, Xashville, May 27. THO\LAS P. SHEHAX is now a brokerage consultant with Connecticut General Life in Kansas City. Tom and wife Pat live in K.C., Mo., with daughter Jennifer, 3, and son Thomas, 1. The onlv Ph.D to be reported on is DR. JAMES E. STURM, wlio will be promoted to associate professor of chemistr^' at Lehigh U. on Sept. 1. 
1958 
Arthur L. Roule, Jr. 1709 IniUana Avenue LaPortc, Indiana 

It's press time again, and as the^e lines reach you we will be commencing the fifth year of this column's publication. If 1 wished to be trite, I could remark about "How time flies!" but I am sure tliat you are all well auarc that tcmpus docs fugit, so we'll let it go at that. 
In our last column, we reported the death of VIXCE CARROLL of Laguna Beach, Calif. We have since received some information on the circumstances of Vince's passing which arc as follows. Vincc was attending the California Col­lege of Medtdnc, where he was in his final year. He had been extremely interested in research •work while in school and had done quite a bit of work in the pathology department of the Los .Angeles County Hospital in conjunction with his studies. Vincc had been invited to be listed in "Who's Who in American Science" and on January- 23rd was on his way to present a paper to a conference of the Association of American Science at Carmel, California, when he died in an automobile accident. .At the request of the class, FATHER BOARMAX offered a Mass for Vince last Januar>-. 
TIic passing of VIXCE CARROLL brings the number of our departed classmates to eight. In case you have missed any of the previous an­nouncements the names of these eight men are: ROGER KENNEY, THOXLAS SULLIX^AX, WIL­LIAM RACHAC, ROBERT CUXXIXGHA.M, THOMAS BARTLEY, ROBERT AVOJCIK, JOHX DOYLE, and VINCENT CARROLL. On June 1, the anniversary of our graduation, a Memorial High Mass %vas offered all of these deceased brethren, and we would ask you to remember them in your own prayers. We intend to continue the 
74 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1962 
JOHN H. ROSS, '52 Ringmaster for the Bulls and Bears 
Particularly concerned about recent fluc­tuations (most downward) of the U. S. stock market, a young five-year veteran of the New York Stock Exchange has been urging Americans to "own your own share of .-American business" since Keith Funston, president of the Exchange, announced his executive appointment. John H. Ross has been serving as secretary of the nation's largest exchange since November of last year. 
Jack Ross hails from Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., where his father. Dr. Rowland H. Ross, is principal of Hastings High School. Forming a taste for finance as a student in the College of Commerce (now the College of Business Administration), he decided to supplement his bachelor of science degree with study at Georgetown Law School. 
With an LL.B. from Georgetown, Jack applied at Eleven Wall Street and j'oined the New York Exchange in 1957. He was named administrative assistant to the sec­retary in 1958, and assistant secretary in March, 1960. He had attained the ripe age of 30 at the time of his promotion to secre­tary last year. 
Jack, his wife, the former Nancy .Anne Gibbon (St. Mar>**s '54) of Oak Park, Illi­nois, and their six children live in Hunting­ton Station, Long Island, N.Y. 
practice of offering an annual Memorial Mass on the anniversary of graduation. 
Tlie correspondence rcacliing your secretary since our last edition has not been exactly overwhelming. With a word of thanks to our contributors and a reminder to the rest that wc depend chiefly on your cards and letters, wc now proceed to relay our news to you. CHARLES ADIE reports that he was married on April 15, 1961, to Joanne F. Jean of Xashua, X.H. The first addition to their family was due in April of this year. Charles is teaclitng math in Lowell, Massachusetts, and is working towards his master's degree from Boston College. He relates further that DICK PADZIESKI was last known to be at the University of Detroit Law School. 
JOE BREIDENSTEIN, the owner of the Masters Oil Company of Mount Pleasant, Midi., extend^ inntattons to any classmates visiting the resort areas of Northern Micliigan to drop in on him at Walloon Lake. Joe has recently been drilling in the \-icinity of Nilcs, and would be very happy to talk over old times over a beer or two with anyone able to stop by. BILL QUINLAX, an­other Mount Pleasant native, is still with the Marines in California, where he may decide to stay upon completion of his stint. Joe B. passes on the following rumors — PAT KILEY has moved to Texas where he is in the commercial laundr>' business; MIKE UNDERWOOD and family are still in the Davenport, Iowa, area; and FRANK FOX was reportedly one of those reser\*ists called back into ser\-ice last fall. ^ 
\ letter under the head of Baxter Laboratories,^ Inc., recently arrived from MART\'' ALLEN who received his master's degree from Michigan State in Marcli and is now working as staff assistant to the director of marketing of Baxter Laboratories. Marty is living in Glcncoc, Illinois and working near Ex'anston. He is, in addition, still single. 
JOHN HIGGINS has come to our assistance with the following news from the Detroit area. John is secretary-treasurer of Steamship Agencies, Inc.. of Detroit, a firm which handles the CN-port trafHc for eight steamship lines in the Miclii­gan-Ohio-Ontario region. The Higgins family, con­sisting of wife Pat, daughters Joan Marie and Kathleen Mary, moved into a new house last July in suburban Detroit. DON KEATING Is regional^, sales director for Chevrolet Parts, living in Caro,V Michigan. Don and his wife, Elaine, were ex­pecting their first child last Fcbruar\-. TOM HERR> MANN is finishing up internship at the University of Oregon Hospital in Portland. He will return to the University of Michigan Hospital this sum­mer where he will begin lib residenc>- in sur­gery*. He is engaged to he married next fall. TOM MOORE is with Detroit Ball Bearing Company's sales division. His third child was due in March. PHIL CONWAY married Valerie Finnic (Joe's sister) and is a C.P..A. with Price Waterhousc. JOE FINNIE is married and is handling computer s\-stem sales for I.B.M. JOE GR^VCE is also a 
C.P.A. and is employed by Touche, Ross, Bailey & Smart. HUGH McGUIRE is still single and is practicing law in Detroit. He is associated with Mayor Cavanagh's firm in that city. LOU BOSCO ^ graduated from the University of Detroit Law ^ School last year and is now doing graduate work at C.C.N.V. 
BILL ISHAM'S mother sent us a note relating that Bill entered Na\y O.CS. after graduation and subsequently spent two years in the Na\'al Intelli­gence Office at Sanford, Florida, after which he served seven months aboard the U.S.S. Forrcstal in the Mediterranean. Currently Bill is serving aboard the new carrier, U.S.S. Constellation. On May l9th, he was married to Susan Greenlcaf of Evanston, Illinois. Future plans include taking a position with the Rainada Inns of .America in PhocnLx-
GERRY McCABE writes from Bcriin that hc 0 expects to finish his overseas military- tour in the fall and to return to the States in October, at which time he hopes to be able to attend our fall after-game reunion (see announcement below). 
Tlie award for furthest travelled correspondence for this issue goes to Nfrs. LEO SCHLOTFELDT of Fairbanks, Alaska. (Gerry McCabe's letter doesn't count — it was post-marked A-P.O. New York) Leo and his wife. Barbara, returned to Fairbanks immediately after graduation and were greeted with orders for Leo^s induction into the Army. He was stationed at Oakland Army Termi­nal (California) as a chaplain's assistant, and Barbara was able to join him. Having now re­turned to Alaska, Leo is working in the family business. Sourdough Express, Inc., a fuel and transfer corporation. 
GENE TRIANO and his wife, Claudette, now have ^ two daughters and arc li\-ing in Elizabeth, N.J.^* BOB DEEB now has two sons and a daughterw and is finishing nicd school in Miami. DICK MERCY is in the Jesuit novitiate at Sheridan. Oregon. JOHN KR-AUSE, has one more year of med scliool at Washington U. of St. Louis. 
J.ACK WORKMAN was released from the .Army last April and is working with United States Steel in Chicago. He has been engaged for a vear and will be married, as of July 28, to Miss Diane S. Welcome of Haverhill, Mass. ROY MAR­TINELLO is also 5er\*ing time in the Army; he is stationed in Germany but expects his releas<^ this summer. 
LARRY ELEUTERI graduau-d from Georgc­
^^ivn Law School in June and will practice law in Xcw Jersey. He is engaged to Miss Gloria Bartolozzi of Trenton. ROY WILLIAMS and his wife, Joy, are celebrating the arriral of Roy. fit. 
ED BRODERICK is another recent law grad­uate, hanng finished Villano%-a Law School this past June. He has secured' a position with La Brum & Doat of Philadelphia. On October 13, Ed will niarry Miss Anne Lindstrom, and he is currently lr\ing to convince lier that South Bend would be a wonderful place for a honcNinoon dur­ing the football season. Ed also reports that CHARLIE SUSAXO is first in his class at Ten­nessee Law School, and that LOU KONOWAL has just finished his first year in law at Villanova. 
'^A T KITTREDGE and his wife are expecting their 
•rs t child. GEORGE MITCHELL is married to the former Miss Mar>' Lou Hoban. 
MIKE MADDEN was married on March 3, 1962, to Miss Chris Golonka of BufTalo. X.Y. Mike graduated from the University of Buffalo medical school in June, and is hoping to intern in Ohio. OU'EX BOSSMAN was also a June graduate of the Buffalo med school, and JLM **SPECKS" ROGERS got his degree in dentlstiA* at the same time from the Bufi'alo denial school. 
From Mishawaka comes neivs that STEVE DR.AGOS is senior urban renewal planner w-iih City Planning Associates, Inc., where he has been engaged for the past two years. Prior to Joining said finn. Steve spent sue months in the Army 
^Corps of Engineers. He and his \v'ifc. Donna, are 
Wving at Eagle Lake, Michigan. BILL SCHAFER is also with City Planning .-Vssociatcs in Mishawaka in the position of head of the urban renewal tech­nical stair. PAT KANE and 1V.VN OSORIO head the firm*s branch office at High Point, North Carolina. 
Finally, just as we prepared to put this column together, a letter arrived from Mrs. JOE EM­MITE (the former Glee Maher). TIic Emmites were wed on November 23. 1961, and were living in St. Louis, where Joe was finishing medical school at St. Louis University. He began his in­ternship on July 1 at San Joaquin General Hos­pital, Stockton, California. DAVE KRx\MP was also finishing St. Louis med school and planned to intern at Firmin Deslogc Hospital in St. Louis. Dave was married in June to Miss Ann Sivan of 
anada. 
• That takes care of the news, but before closing we have . . . 
AN IMPORT.ANT ANNOUNCEME.\T 

The .Annual Class-of-1958 .-Vfter-Game Reunion will be held on October 20, following the Notre Dame-Michigan Stale game. This will be the fourth game of the season — still early enough to avoid the rigors of the South Bend winter; and if you are able to attend only one game during the season this would be the natural choice. So make your plans now (tickets, etc.) and look for%%ard 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY —Joseph E. Hannan, '33 (right), named South Bend area Man of the Year at Valley Club 
U.N.D. Night ceremony in the Morris Inn, accepts award and congratulations from retiring President Bob Cahill, '34. Applauding (foreground) is U.S. Congress­man, speaker of the evening and chairman of the Republican National Committee Hon. William E. Miller, '35. Gerald Hammes (not shown) was installed as the Club's 1962-63 president. 
to an enjoyable couple of hours with your friends. The location will be announced later by means of a special mailing. 
Reported by .Mrs. GERALD TRAFFiaVNDA, '57: "GENE LEY\'AL \-isitcd us recently. Following graduation from Loyola Law School Gene was working for the stale legblation in Sacramento until he was drafted around Fcbruar>* and he com­pleted his basic training at Ft. Ord. His next assignment is Ft. Gordon, Ga., for special train­ing. Gene just returned from Seattle's World Fair which he toured with JOHN MACK. John, who is teaching at Maryland University Extension School in Argentia, Newfoundland, flew In and met Gene in Seattle. (C. John Mack, II, resident lecturer, Univ. of Md., BOQ, c/o Education Ofiicer Nai.y Number 103, FPO, New York, N.Y.) DAVE SHANAHAN is stationed there too. 
"Received a note from BERNIE LYONS. He and his wife Joan just had their second daughter, Jean Marie, born .April 22, 1962, in Las Vegas, Ne\-ada. They have another daughter, Patricia. Bemie is a first lieutenant in the Air Force with a regular commission and flies jets. TTiey received orders for Homestead Air Force Base, Florida, as of the end of Mav. 
"GEP DURENBERGER works for Yeakel and Field Firm in Laguna Beach, Calif. This firm deals in I7th and I8th centur>' furnishings and art. They sent him as a buyer to Europe. He does interior decorating on the side. (1099 Coast Blvd. South, Laguna Beach, Calif.) 
"GERRY DODGE danced in 'Bye-Bye BirdiV on Broadway, has done extensive summer stock work and recently worked with Dan Dailey in San Francisco in 'Take Me Along.' 
"DAVE McMAHON and wife Colleen have two children, Cammy and Dave, Jr. They also have a new address: 56 Jefferson Ave., Rockville Centre, N.J. 
"ED THOMAS is the buyer and manager of his father's shirt factorj' but he is still writing music on the side. He resides at 4115 N. Honeysuckle Lane, Jackson, Miss. 
"MIKE KOCH is out of the Army and living in Chicago at 629 W. Deming Place, Apt. lOOI, Chicago 14, Illinois. 
"Gerry and I drove to San Diego to visit with my former roommate Vicki Bapst Henz)- (BILL BAPST, '57 sister) and her Navy husband, CHUCK HENZY (3257 Annrac St., San Diego 11, Calif-), who is stationed aboard the submarine Queen-fish there. Chuck and Vicki have three boys, Bryan Charles, Karl William and their newest, Eric Alexander, bom February 23, 1962, in San Diego. Vic's brother Bill and his uifc Sue are expecting their fourth baby in October. 
"JOHN CARLIN is in the seminary at Im­maculate Conception Seminary, Conception, Mis­souri." 
From the Alumni Office: DANTE FULIGNI wrote from Syracuse, N.Y.: "This is to advise of the birth and death of my second child and second son, Mark Andrew FuVtgni. He was born Feb. 1, 1962, and died suddenly and \vithout warning on Starch 9, 1962. We thank God that he v«*as baptised and has achieved his ulti­mate destiny. The main purpose of requesting the announcement is for the benefit of my friends who kno%v that he had been bom or was e,x­pected. More important, it is a reminder of the profound significance of baptism, for the living as 
CALUMET REGION — U.N.D. Night Chairman Lawrence F. Gallagher (left) and guest speaker Rev. John Reedy, C.S.C., editor of Ave Maria Magazine, assist the retiring President, Benedict Danko (right), in prescndng a scroll to Austin Boyle, director and former officer, as N.D. Man of the Year. In the picture on the right are principals off Calumet's annual sports stag in Hammond, Ind. (clockwise from upper left): co^hairman Tony Kuharich, Irish backfield coach 
^ra d Lynn, local sportscaster Jack Naimo, Irish kicker Joe Perkowski, Notre Dame halfback Angelo Dabiero, Irish athletic director Edward W. (Moose) ,Krausc and event co-chairman Dave Ogrcn. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 75 
well as the dead." MARTIN J. ALLEN» JR., 
is a marketing stafT assistant for Baxter-Travenol 
division of Baxter Laboratortcs. Inc. Marty has 
an M.B.A. from Michigan State and now lives in 
Glcncoe, III. ROBERT B. CAIR.A is an account 
super\-isor at Miltbum McCarty .Associates, Inc., 
Ncu- Vork public relations firm. Bob had been 
a reporter for the South Bend Trib and a staffer 
on Printers' Ink. He lives with his wjfc and three 
cliildren in Madison, X.J. GERALD F. MEYER 
has an opportunity to found tlic Xotre Dame Club 
of Ghana. He was assigned to the .American Em­
bassy (P.O. Box 194, .Accra, Ghana) as executive 
officer for the National Institutes of Health. West 
Africa Research Unit, planning a program of 
medical research in a variety of disciplines rang­
ing from epidemiology- to lieniatolog>'. Since Am­
bassador WILLIAM .MAHOXEV, '38, is stationed 
in Accra too, the Club would have at least two 
members. GER.ALD D. BURNS of .Milburn, N.J., 
is engaged to Miss Pat R>-an of Newark. He's 
with .Allied Chemical Corp.. New Vork EDWARD 
W. H.ARDIG has joined the law firm of Feeney and Siratigos in South Bend, having won his 

LL.B.
 at N.D. last year and ser\'ed his six months with Uncle Sam. CHARLES L. ADIE now lives at 6 Miami St., Nashua. N.H. He and the former Joanne F. Jean, whom lie married .April 15, 1961. expected their first child long since. DR. JOHN DALEY, a classmate of the Graduate School, is now fJiatmian of the chemistry' department at Bellarmine College, Louisrille. Congratulations to FATHERS LEO FLANIG.AN, JOACHI.M RO­ZARIO, CHESTER PRUS\'NSKI, EDWARD ABSTETAR, GREGORY GREEN, HARRY CRON­IN, JOHN CROSTON, EDWARD KENNEDY and RON TRIPI, ordained as priests of the Holy Cross Indiana Province this year. Militar\' notices; EDWARD P. WEINMANN, linng xvith .Mr^. Weinmann in Leavenworth, Kansas, was made a reserve 1st Lt- while assigned to XVI Corps Con­trol Group at Omaha. Xeb.; 1st Lt. GERiVLD 

S.
 WELLS, whose wife Gail remains in X'ew Vork City, has been with the acti\-ated 244th Quartermaster Battalion, training at Camp Pickett and Fort Lee, Va.; 1st Lt. CHARLES J. KILB won an Air Defense Command expert's certificate in weapons handling at McGuirc AFB, Xcw Jer­sey-; and 2nd Lt. JOHN W. GL.AVIN, with a law degree from Fordham, underwent officer orientation at Infantrv- School, Fort Benning, Ga.. while his wife Joan lived with liis parents in Scottsviilc, X.Y. From BILL HOHMANN, 7065 Benson Ave., San Diego 14. Calif,: "Some netvs about myself and some 'have scens' throughout the Pacific Fleet in the past year. (The .ALUM­NUS already noted the death of JIM ARSE­NAUL T as radar obser\'er aboard a plane that crashed in the South China Sea, Ed.) Have seen: BILL GEARY and Xancv at Pearl Harbor, also BUD ENRIGHTJ Joan and JACK SHEELY called as thc\' passed through San Diego on their w-ay to San Francisco, Jack on an ammunition ship homcportcd at Port Chicago; TOM KEHOE and "MICK" HURLEY both on destroyers home-ported in San Diego. . , I have augmented to the regular Na\-y and dedded to make >t a career. Have been gunnery officer of the destroyer Taussig for the past 18 months and will be until transfer time rolls around this coming December. My wife Nikki and I expect our second child in July. Billy is now 2." 


1959 
Dennis M. Ncad 6121 Robison Rd. Cmcinnati, Ohio 

Here goes the ne%vs and it will be very brief this time: JOHN HART graduated from Ford­ham Law School in June, but his future en­deavors are impaired at the moment by Army physicals. HARRY KOENIG has dedded to de­vote his full time to writing novels after two years of employment with the H. E. W. Department in Chicago. JOHN MONTAGUE, JR., is employed with the Frank Briscoe Construction Company tn Bloomfield, New Jersey. 
76 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1962 
HOLY CROSS PRIESTS of the Indiana Province members of the N.D. Class of 1958 and Holy Cross College Ordination Class of 1962: (1st row, l.-r.) Fathers James Francis Flanigan, Joachim J. Rozario, Chester S. Prusynski, Edward Frederick Abstetar; 
(2nd row, l.-r.) Fathers Gregory Green, Harry C. Cronin, John Joseph Croston, Edward Joseph Kennedy, and Ronald R. Trip!, C.S.C.—shown in Washington, D.C. ^ 
CHARLES CARAVATI was reactivated last 
October and is now at Fl. Lewis in Washington; 
he recently passed Iris C.P..A. exams and last 
March his wife Eileen presented him with their 
first cliild, Kevin Charles. 
MIKE TRESSEL was presented his first addition to the family this past St. Patrick's Day — his name is Jimmy Gerard. Mike is employed with the Sinclair Refiner>' in East Chicago. JIM CO­LASSIMO is working out of Detroit (firm un­known) and plans to be married in August. 
STEVE DORNBACK received his master's de­gree in correctional administration at N.D. in August of 1960 and began work at the Lucas County Juvenile' Court in Toledo. Ohio^ as a proba­tion counselor. Steve married Miss Nancy Ander­son in Lincoln Park on December 29, 1960 and now has one daughter born in October of 1961. 
BILL QUINN and .MILT .McANGUS were also in the correctional administration program at N.D. 
— the latter now resides in Toledo aho and is employed with the Lucas County .Adult Proba-
CAPT. THOMAS REAGAN, '51, son-in-law of the late Bill Cemcy, *25, receives the 
U.S. Air Force Commendation Medal from the personnel staff officer at Hickam AFB, Hawaii, for meritorious service as the personnel officer at Wright-Pattcison AFB, Ohio, before his present assignment with Headquarters, PaciBc Air Forces, Hawaii. 
tion Department. BILL CASEY (not Ben) is 
teaching and coaching at Notre Dame High School 
in Niles, Illinois. 
JOHN CORTESIO was married to Miss Barbara 
Bradley of Centenille. Iowa, on December 27, 
1960. This past February* they had a b^diy girl. 
Maria; John is presently wrapping up his final 
semester at the University of Iowa Law School. 
I received a ^»clcomed letter from BOB FOX 
about his endeavors since graduation and about 
many others in the class, so I'll merely quote the 
letter: 
"Following graduation I went to work for the Kaiser Steel Corporation in Fontana. California^, JOHN ELDER and DICK MANDILLE also starte^ at Kaiser at the same time. John is now married and has a baby girl and is still with Kaiser. However, Dick has gone back to Xew York and at last report was going to Columbia and work­ing for his MBA. During my stay in California I ran into many of our '59ers. BOB McKENZIE worked for Convair in Pomona and then trans­ferred over to North American at Santa Monica and was still there last September. I also ran into DAVE WEIL.AND at one of the Laker games; he is employed with Lockheed out in Burbank. 
*\At the X.D.-S.C, game in 1960 I ran into STEVE SMITH, LARRY .McKIBBON and JOHN KEIFER, who were all stationed at xarious na\-aL.. basis in the area. Speaking of the Xav>'. I als ^ ran into ROGER LAUR while I was touring the aircraft carrier in Vorktown. Roger was just about ready to be discharged and was planning to return to Milwaukee to a job in an accounting firm there. Tliat about wraps it up for California, so now Til start in on Pittsburgh. Tm on a leave of absence from Kaiser and will be returning there this summer after receiving my M,S, in industrial administration at Carnegie Tech, There are a great number of 59ers around here. PAUL ANDERSON is in the same program as myself and is fresh from his tour of dutv in the service which was spent primarily on the'Texas desert. CHARLIE BOWEN and JOE McARDLE are also here. Charlie is leaching English and is planning on going to Har\*ard to get his doctorate while receiving his M,S. from Yale; Joe is in drama school here. DICK Z.APPALA is in his tiiird year of law school here at Duquesne while ^4' spending the first two years at Georgetown workin^Yj! in the patent office for the Government. PHII^J^ •• KILKEARY was in town for the Pitt-N.D. game and is presently flying jets out of Dover. Delaware, for the Air Force; he is married to the former Catherine Conti. JACK McGRATH received his 
M.S. from Tech last June and is now a 2nd Lt. ivlth the Army stationed in Detroit at the Chrysler Tank Division. JOE SHAW is stationed at Quonset Pu, Rhode Island, and is flying jets from a carrier for the Navy." 
Reported by Mrs. GERALD TRAFFICANDA, '57: j "DAVE BARRETT is still a Na\y man statione^^ aboard the USS Fremont—he is hoping to attend-' Georgetown Law School as of next September. 

"BOB GOLDSCHMIDT and wife Karen just had 
£^tietr first baby, Diane Frances, on March 9 in Ft. Lcc, X.J. Bob is working in New York City as a managerial consultant for an accounting firm. (2430 Eighth, Apt. D.B., Ft. Lee, N.J.) 
"JOHN GLOCKNER and wife Eleanor have a new baby, Alexander John III, bom on April 2. John is working for a masters in Business Adminis­tration at Marquette. (3051 W. Ruskin Ct., Apt. 12. Milwaukee 15, Wise.) 
"JIM COONEY and wife Ann had their second girl on November 24, 1961, Colleen Anne. They have another daughter Kathleen Agnes. Jim is currently assistant director assigned to Illinois, Kansas, Missouri. New Mexico and Oklahoma with the Notre Dame Foundation stafT. (5134 Ford St., South Bend, Ind.) 
^ "GREG ROGERS is currently stationed in Berlin. 
V_»ART DI SABATINO and DON ZEIFANG reside at 2807 27lh St., N.W., Washington, D.C., where they attend Law School at Georgetown. TOM BERG and wife Jackie have two children. Michele, Marie and their new son, Thomas Joseph born April IK 1962 in San Bernardino. Calif. (1426 Oakhurst Dr.) 
**FRANK ZUEKE is working on his doctorate in Sociology at the University of Chicago. (1413 E. 60th St., Chicago 37, III.) JOE McARDLE is at the Pittsburgh Playhouse teaching, plus working on his master'^s in set design. BOB BURNS is back in the Army again—Fort Knox. Kentucky. 
"RUDY HORNISH and wife Mary Adeic arc expecting this summer. They were married last September. Rudy is working towards his master's {JPn speech and drama at Seton Hall University, where he also teaches. (171 S. Orange Ave.. No. 
307. South Orange, .V.J.) JOHN TOTH is doing graduate work at Catholic University." 
From the Alumni Office: 
WILLIA^f F. BARRETT, mentioned above, got in touch from Fairchild AFB. Washington (P.O. Box 1095): "Following graduation I spent six months working In the family business in .\lbany, Oregon. I then reported to active duty with the Army and spent six months in training at Fort Benning, Ga., and Fort Holabird, Md. Upon completion of this training period I was assigned to .^rmy IntcUigencc duly in Korea. Despite pre­dictions of misery and unhappiness, I found my tour there most rewarding in experience and education. Since October of last year I have been working ~ ere in the Spokane area, still with the U.S. %rmy. .. . I almost forgot to mention that BUD 
(ft BOBBINS is also statoined here at Fairchild with the Air Force. PAT CHAMBERS, '60, is presently in Korea and was doing quite well when I last saw him." Other soldiers: 2nd Lt. NEIL J. SEr\­MAN finished officer embarkation orientation at the Fort Eustis, Va,. transportation school; 2nd Ll. NICHOLAS F. QULVTARELLI finished 82nd .Mr­borne Division Jump School at Fort Bragg. N.C. Air Force 2nd Lts. LEONARD LeROSE and THOMAS V. STEFFEL both won their gold bars at Lackland AFB, Texxs; Leonard went on to pilot training at Laredo AFB, Texas, while Tom went to the Technical Training Center. Air Training 
«. 
WEST VIRGINIA —N.D. atUetic head 
Ed Krause (left) pauses with Club 
officers after storming Charleston on 
Universal Notre Dame Night in May. 
(Charleston Gazette photo) 
Command. Sheppard AFB, Tex., for intelligence photo-radar training. And WILLIAM V. BAULT has made 1st Lt. as a supply officer with the 649lh Radar Squadron at Bedford Air Force Station. Va. TOM HAWKINS Is a big man in Los Angeles, much bigger than his 6 feet V/z Inches, even when a jump makes it 6 feet 8. The Hawk has come up from defensive "sixth man" position In the L.A. Lakers' attack to fill in while the great Elgin Baylor fulfills his Army obligation. Tom, who was Notre Dame's first Negro Methodist captain. Is hedging on basketball with grad study in sociology at Southern Cal and hopes to buttress this with a law degree, with an eye to "the exalted work of mediation"—perhaps even in the international field. He and wife Doris have an N.D. prospect in two­year-old son Kevin. Spending the summer in India is DAVID M. COOK, assigned to Jamshedpur on a $1470 grant from Smith Kline Si. French Lab­oratories, Philadelphia drug manufacturer, to gain clinical experience in another land and to bring .\merican medical techniques to an underdeveloped area. Dave, after three years at St. Louts U. Medical School, is one of 33 medical students chosen for fellowships by the Assn. of American Medical Colleges. JAMES L. BENNETT is a data processing sales representative at the Brooklyn. N.Y., office of Roval McBee business machines; he lives in Baldwin, N.Y. HERBERT S. RIBAND. JR., of Philadelphia was elected managing editor of the U. of Pennsylvania's Law Review, .\mong grad students, FATHER JUSTIN JERRY RICHARD of St. Bernard's Abbey, Ala., with an M..A. in liturgy, created somewhat of a stir when he received his bachelor of music decree from Oherlin 
College this summer, majoring in voice at the Ohio school; and BROTHER MARION BELKA, 
S.M. (Ph.D. in education), chairman <^ the depart­ment of education at St. Mary's University, Austin, Tex., was named president-elect of the National Catholic Guidance Conference for 1962-6t add program coordinator of the 9th annual meeting to be held next ApnI. 
1960 
John F. Gcier 713 La Crosse Avenue Wilmette, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: 
With silence from JACK GEIER, we have a couple of notes reported by Mrs. GERALD TRAF­FICANDA, '57: "FR. LEO GORMAN is in Germany in a small Bavarian town. He loves it! And WALLY JONES Is In the Army now." ARTHUR FRANZ joyously announced his engage­ment to Angela Agnello of Chicago, 111., and was making arrangements to have it solemnized at N.D. Art is a municipal bond underwriter with A.C. .Allyn & Co., Chicago. He was discharged after six months active Army duty at Fort Eustis, Va., and plans to be married August 25. BILL MOL­LIHAN was among the June grads at Stritch School of Medicine. Loyola. WILLIAM G. ROTH is with the Trane Co. CcnTraVac sales department in LaCrosse, Wis., 'having received an M.S. in industrial management from Purdue last year and taken the Trane orientation course for graduate engineers. GEORGE H. REEBER finished his active duty and got married last Nov. 23 to Brenda Erikson of Detroit. He's working in cost estimating at the Fisher Body plant of General Motors. George reports that TERRENCE E. KEATING has been attending the U- of Detroit Law School and tvorking in a local law office. 
The only Graduate School item is that SISTER .M. ALPHONSUS (M.S. in math education) was awarded a National Science Foundation grant for doctoral work In math at the U. of Georgia. 
All the rest of the news is military, so we'll start with the Army. GEORGE IZO reported to Fort Leonard Wood, Mo., to get his sLx months obligation over In time to report for fall football duty with the Washington Redskins. Judge Advocate General 1st Lt. JIM COKER, as already reported in the ^61 Law column, was appointed to defend a PFC accused of writing a letter which criticized President Kennedy. JFK must have feared Jim's legal proficiency, since he "settled out of court** with a presidential amnesty. P.AUL B. KUSBACH. executive officer of Headquarters Company, II Corps, Camp Kilmer, N.J., got his silver 1st Lt. bars pinned on by his wife Mary (daughter of retired philosophy Prof. WILLLAM ROEMER) last 
DENVER — At the head table for Denver's Universal Notre Dame Night celebration were (l.-r.): Kay Hughes, vice-preadent, 
Colorado University Alumni Assn.; Msgr. William Jones, Archdiocesan superintendent of schools; Bob Zeis, incoming prcsdent; Father fphilip Moore, academic assistant to Father Hesburgh; Carl Eibei^er, retiring president; Francis VanDerbur, general fund cliaitnuui for ' Denver University, a Ford Foundation co-beneficiary; Margurette Eibcrger and Lois Zeis, wives of the retiring and incamii^ praideals. 
Notre Dame Alutnmis, August, 1962 77 
spring. The Kusbachs should be reporting a blessed event any time now. At Fort Eustis. Va.. 2nd Lt. CHARLES L. LADXER (formerlv uith IBM at White Plains, X.Y.) finished officer orientation at transportation school (he has an M.B.A. from Columbia); Rescne Pvis. THOXUS L. BONN and .ALFRED J. OWINGS, also at Eustis' transport school, finished driver training and transport control courses respectively (Tom had been with National Book Ser^'ice, Stamford. Conn., and Al with Virginia Electric Power, Riclimond). .At Fort Bcnning, Ga., 2nd Lts. JAMES E. DEIBIG, Galion. O.. and EDWARD J. PAULSE.N, Flushing, .V.Y., finished infantry officer orientation and qualified as platoon leaders. Jim had attended Ohio State, and Ed u'as formerly employed by Paul. Weiss. Rifkind. Wharton & Garrison in Nciv York. At Fort Knox. Kv., 2nd Lt- RON BLUBAUGH of Portland, Ore., finished training as an armored officer (armor befits a former Scliolastic editor), while Rescn'e Pvt. JOHN W, McCANN of Detroit completed a clerical course, attached to the 70tli Infantry- Division, a Rcscr\"e unit out of Fort Wavne. Ind. .•\t .•\bcrdeen Proving Ground, Md.. Reserve Pvt. PIERCE E. DeGROSS finished a field artillrrj' repair course and was assigned to the 24lh Infantry- Division in Germany. His wife Eleanor stayed home ai Mountain Lakes, N.J., where Pierce used to commute to General Foods In While Plains, N.Y, M Fort Lee, Va., Reserve PFC TRACY J. DOUGLASS partici­pated in logistical exercises in May. He's assigned to 353rd CiWl .Affairs Heardquarters, a .N.Y. Re­serve unit. At Fort Leavenworth. Kan., Pvt. W.ALL.ACE H. JONES was recently assigned to the U.S. Disciplinary Barracks' 1st Guard Company. Formerly with A.C. Neilson in Chicago. \\'ally is assistant band director with the company. 
Air Force news is sparser. .At Laredo .AFB, Tex., 2nd Lt. DONALD L. PRAIRIE \von his pilot's irings. He was to report to Rhinc-Mein -AB, Germany, after training at Seward .AFB, Tcnn. Don's wife is the former Marv Grcnclle, whose parents Col. and Mrs. EDWIN GRE.NELLE (former ROTC chief at N.D.) arc now on Okinawa- -At Moody AFB, Ga., 2nd Lt. CHARLES G. GILLIES of Greenwich, Conn., won his wings, xvas assigned to sur\i\-al training at Stead .AFB, Xcv., thence to ExTcux AB, France- And 2nd Lt. ROBERT T. PIGORS of Elkhart got his wings at ^Villiams .AFB, -Ariz. After school al Randolph .AFB. Tex., he will return to Williams as a pilot instructor. Bob's wife is the former Pegg>- Berger of Elkhart. 
Finally, one Navy item from Commander .Am­phibious Squadron Ten, U.S. -Atlantic Fleet; Lt. (j.g.) ROBERT A. CENX.AME, USSR, is serving aboard the USS Chilton (.APA-38) as combat in­formation officer. The Chilton, an amphibious attack transport capable of landing l.CKX) troops in 23 landing craft, is participating in amphibious opera­tions in the Caribbean but is home-ported in Norfolk, Va. 
1961 
Nick Palibnich 34 Dartmouth Road West Orange, N. J. 

Before starting on the .Alumni news for the summer issue of the .ALUMNUS, 1 would first like to thank the area representatives for the excellent Job ihey have been doing. -As a result of their earnest participation in the class cor­respondence, I have been kept well supplied with class news. I would also like to thank the members of the Class of '62, and **thcir mothers" for their responses to the requests for Alumni news from these men. 
TTic first item of alumni news came as such a shock to me that I had to read the letter over about ten times to make sure that my eyes were not deceiving mc. Tliat greatest of all ladv's men, BERNARD DOBR.ANSKI, has fallen by the way­side. On April 23, he became engaged to Carroll Wood, a student nurse at the University of Virginia. The wedding is sclieduled to take place in January of 1963, in Charlottes\ille, Virginia. I received a short note from FR. BO.AR^LAN at Notre Dame informing me that RAY RATKOWSKl was married to Diane Crowley (S.M.C. '61) on Feb. 10, in Sacred Heart Church. Fr. Boarman also mentioned that RED MACK would follow his former tcam­
78 NotT€ Dame Alumnus^ August. 1962 
PALM BEACH — Father Joyce (left) represented the University at the U.N.D. Night of the Notre Dame Club of Palm Beach County, climax of the 1962 Florida State Convention, ^ greets the family of the late Frank J. Lewis, Chicago, whose Lewis Foundation granted one million dollars for a graduate residence hall on the campus. They arc (from left) Mrs. Julia Lewis, ividow of the late philanthropist; son Ed, president of the Palm Beach County Club; and son Plulip. (Walter Dorsey photo) 
mate by marrying a South Bend girl, Jean Burkhart, on March 3, also in Sacred Heart Church. MIKE ESPOSITO became engaged to Ellen Lyons of Hackcnsack, New Jersey, on -April 7. Mike is no%v a 2nd Lt. In the Marines and is stationed at Camp La Jeunc, North Carolina. The couple will be married on September 2. TO.M CUBB-AGE married Linda Perkins, a home town girl, on January- 20, and is now studying law at the University of Oklahoma. DON BADER, 2nd Lt- In the U.S.M.C. presently stationed at X..A.S. Pensacola In preflight school, was married last Dec. 30, in Sacred Heart Church, to Sharon Rose Starkweather of South Bend. BOB YOUNG, a 'GI graduate, was an usher in the wedding. JOHN POXSETTO, married last June (1961) to Elinor Hodder. is no^- near com­pletion of his first year of law school at George­town University. 
My close friend, TOXY "HARRY" MUSA relates that he is teaching and head coach of football and baseball at Cardinal Newman High, in West Palm Beach, Florida. Tony's former roommate, J.ACK MURPHY Is in the Scminar\- of the Oblate Order, in Tcwksbury, Mass. .After completion of a nine-month sales training program with Westinghouse Electric Corporation, ALAN MEYERL has accepted a permanent position In the Boston sates office. Last Sept., -Al was married to Kathleen Zcra, and the couple arc now living in Boston, Mass. Last June (1961) BILL HUG entered Penn State Gradu­ate School of Engineering on a research assistant­ship. He is now doing research work in the Naval Ordinance Laboratories, Silver Spring, Mar>'land. PAT GR.AHAM is teaching and coaching at St. Michael's School, an Indian grade and high school on the Navaho Reservation In .Arizona. RON HUNDMAX' is presently working for Haskins and Sells, a public accounting firm In Chicago, Illinois. This past June he was married to the former Carol .Ann McHenry. BILL POGUE and JIM VERDICK arc living together on tlie North Side of the ''Windy City." Bill Is working at the First National Bank of Chicago and attending the Graduate School of Business at Northwestern during the nights. Jim is with .Arthur Young and Co., a C.P.A. firm in Chicago. JIM SULLIVAN Is a publishing represent­ative In the southern district of .Atlanta,' Ga., for the McGraw-Hill Publishing Co. 
JIM MULLIGAN c.\pccled to receive his master's degree in June, after completing a graduate fellowship at Johns Hopkins University. Jim uas married last Sept. to Maria Guzzetti and they arc now liring in Baltimore, Md. FRED RALPH is near completion of studying for a master's degree in electrical engineering at Notre Dame. MIKE WHITE, looking forward to .August *vhen he will receive his M.B..A. at Ohio State. After this he intends to teach accounting at Oregon State Uni­vcreity, in Cor\allis, Oregon. Other Class of '61 
graduates at Ohio State Include TOM GLOW, 
J. J. MACEDONIA and TERRY FLYNX, graduate engineering; PAUL -MAHAR and JLM GILBERT, medical scliool; and FRANK ISABELLE, graduate science. ED KOMPARE, DICK HENDRICKS and BOB YARI O are all enrolled In the College of Medicine at the University of Illinois. JOHN PALEN is currently attending the University of Wisconsin on a National Institute of Mental Health^ Fellowship (in sociology). On June 9 he was scheduled to marry Karen Ann Doody In the Log Chapel, on the Notre Dame campus. Former class­mate BRIAN SULLIV.AN will sen.c as the best man in the ceremony. FRANK SC.ALISE Is study­ing law at DcPaul University in Chicago. MIKE GILBERT is attending Wayne University Medical School. 
TIM HIXCHEY, presently an ensign In the 
U.S. Xa\y, was engaged last Christmas to Xancy Walsh of Chicago. Xcws from Quantico, Va.. relates that Lt. BILL WELCH has been visited by a vi\-acious blonde from a women's college In Indiana. Lt. ROY REGAN ran Into a door nnd ^ picked up thirty stitches In his jaw. Lt. .ART^ ARMENTO, in his spare time, is doing research on the activities of secretaries in the Washington, D.C., area. JOHN BAUERNSCHUB entered active duty with the Air Force on Dec 26, 1961, with special duty assigned to N.A.S.A.'s Goddard Space Flight Center outside of Washington, D.C. On Feb. 28, 1962 John and his wife Betty were blessed with the birth of a baby girl, whom they named Mar>* Patricia. BRUCE JOHNSON received his com­mission in the Navy in Feb. ot '62 and is now-serving on the U.S.S. Bennington, an aircraft carrier, in San Francisco, Cal. JIM MARTIN, after passing his C.P..A. exam last X'ovembcr, was called into the Army for six months active duty. Prior to being called in, Jim was employed by Arthur Young and Co., in Chicago. BOB LORENZ, a former classmate of Jim's, has been stationed In the same company as Jim. at Ft. Knox, Kentucky. . 
GEORGE O'CONNELL has joined the Con- <j grcgation of the Holy Cross Fathers and Is at theirQ_­novitiate in Joidan, Minnesota, until August 15. GEORGE WEBER has also answered the call to the priesthood and is currently studying senior philosophy at St. John's Seminar>", in Portland, Maine. 
I received quite a bit of alumni news from TERRY SHEA, who is presently stud\-ing journalism at the University of Iowa. Terry informed mc that JOHN CARELLA married Miss Mar>annc O'Gara last June (1961) and is now at the Univcrsitv of San Francisco Law School. LEN DELOZIER isjj { taking graduate studies in classics at the University v/ of Michigan. VAN DIAMOND married .Miss ^ 

E\-agcne Kennedy in Honolulu in June, '61, and ./-^r the past year he has been taking graduate %Aurscs in Political Science at the University of Penns\ivania. TIM HUGHES is a graduate student in English at the University of Iowa and on June 9, 1962 he expected to marry Miss Nanc>- Elv 
(S.M.C. '61). JIM SKAHAN is in Law School at Boston College and PAT HART entered North­western Law School last February. JACK CA­HALAN and GUY POWERS are both doing graduate work in philosophy at the University of Toronto. BILL HANLEY is attending law school at the University of Chicago after spending last summer as a legislative intern under Indiana Senator Vance Hartke in Washington, D.C. JOHN BURNS is putting his Woodrow Wilson Fellowship to Work for him at Johns Hopkins University, where I Jie is doing graduate work in philosophy. Also using 
^4 « Woodrow Wilson at Hopkins is KEN BROWN, doing graduate work in English. BILL JUNGELS, another '61 graduate at Johns Hopkins, is working in the graduate department of English. ART DECHENE is taking graduate courses in theology at Catholic University, in Washington, D.C. JIM 0*ROURKE and his wife Carol arc living in Freiburg, Germany, where he is attending grad school. 
Ensigns TONY CHESSICK and JAY WHITNEY share an apartment in Arlington, Va., and commute daily to the Na\y Department, where they assist **Palriot of the Year" Rickovcr in running our nuctcar-powered fleet. Although both arc leading a comfortable bachelor existence, there is a great deal of speculation as to just how long this con­/"^ition will exist in reference to Jay. Ensign OLLIE ^'VILLIAMS is currently fulfilling his active duty obligation with the Na\%", aboard the U.S.S. Pokono. 
JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER has entered the Bene­dictines at their St. Louis Prior>', where he is currently completing his postulantship. Scholastic editor CHAS RIECK is now Brother Joel in the Dominicans and is spending his novitiate in Winona, Minnesota. MIKE SMITH is in St. Bernard's Seminary in Rochester, New York, and is anticipat­ing parish work in the dtocesc of Savannah, Ga., after ordination. 
For those graduates living in the state of Penn­sylvania your area representative, BERNIE DOB­RANSKL has had an address change. His present address is: 206 Mt. Lebanon Boulc%"ard, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
From the Alumni Office: f I Mrs, GERALD TRAFFICANDA, '57, reports that ^TON! KAR-ATY is doing graduate work at Catholic 
University as well as JOHN TOTH, '59. JACK MURPHY entered the Oblate Novitiate last August and is now Brother John Murphy, N.O.^^.L, Oblate Novitiate, Tewksbury, Mass. The rest of the reports are from the U.S. Armed Forces. Ensign THOMAS D. RYAN was among ten officers picked for the "Burke Program" to return to college under Na^y auspices in September, after completing his sea duty, and undergo studies leading to a doctorate, either at Michigan or Pcnn State. Con­gratulations, Tom. At Fort Hood, Tex., 2nd Lt. PAUL G. HOLM.\N, JR., joined the 1st Armored Division as a platoon leader of Company B. 46th /"|Infantr>'. His wife Diane lives in nearby Temple, ^ fex. Also assigned to 1st Armored at Fori Hood is 2nd Lt. ROBERT C. BARRON of San Antonio, Tex. At Fort Benning, Ga., 2nd Lt. PATRICK 
S. HAGOOD finished infantry- officer orientation. .-\t Fort Eustts, Va., t\\'o classmates flnished officer orientation at the transportation school: 2nd Lt. STANLEY C, FEDEWA of Lansing. Mich., and 2nd Lt. FRANCIS X. O'CONNOR, JR., of Rum-son, N.J. From Fort Holabird. Md., 2nd Lt. GERALD L. CARRIER reported that hve class­mates completed counterintelligence training at .\rmv Intelligence School: 2nd Lts. JERRY CAR­RIER, EUGENE EPPERLY, JOSEPH LIBBY, FRANCIS GERARD McGR.ATH and JOHN ULL­RICH. Jerr>-finished second in the class and Fran!i McGrath finished fifth. At Fort Lee, Va.. Pvt. FRANK DOGNAUX, son of alumnus RENE DOGNAUX of Vincennes, Ind., took part in the I Logex logistics exercises in May. A clerk-typist in V^h c 2nd Logistical Command Headquarters Detach­^^lent. Frank served his basic at Fort Knox. With the U.S. Forces in Germany, 2nd Lt. CYRIL F. ROSE, JR., is platoon leader in Troop D, 14th .Armored Cavalrx' Regiment's 1st Reconnaissance Squadron. Eased in Fulda, Germany, he has a wife, Sharon, in South Bend. At Fort Knox, Ky., 2nd Lt. BRIAN W. BRADY finished officer orienta­tion in the Armor School. At Fort Gordon, Ga., 2nd Lt. GERALD E. MATHEIS of Rocliester, N.Y., 
I finished officer orientation at the Signal Training 
i Center. At Fort Sill, Okla., 2nd Lt. WILLIAM y^ . KNIPPER completed field artillery officer orienta­/ ' tion at the Artiller>- and Missile Center, far from 
TRIPLE CITIES — President Joseph P. Galloway addresses U.N.D. Night gathering in Binghamton, N.Y. At the head table (from left) are Rev. Leo Sullivan, C.S.C.; Mrs. Galloway, and guest Jim Armstrong from Notre Dame, 
his Pcnsacola home. .A.nd at Fort Monmouth. X.J., Chicago's 2nd Lt. JOHN R. BOWLING, JR., completed the officer communication course at the Signal School. A lone .A.ir Force report says 2nd Lt. JOHN L. RUPPEL, JR., is undergoing naW­gator training at James Connally AFB, Tex. The Coast Guard reports that ROBERT E. .MYERS has been commissioned an ensign in the reser\'e and assigned to duty at the Second Coast Guard District Office, St. Louis, Mo. 
Law Class of 1961 
John N. Moreland Assistant County Attorney WapcUo County Court House Ottumwa, Iowa 
.-\ letter from MIKE ROSE informs us of a successful N.Y. bar exam, and that fact that "Jewels" is working with State Senator T. Lavernc. Mike's address is 473 Lyell Ave., Rochester 6. TOM SCH.AEFFER is writing a news column about young lawyers in the Indiana State Bar iVssn's publication "Res Gestae." RODERICK ALOYSIUS ALPHONUS METTE is with the Legal Aid Bureau in Chicago. MASON SULLIVAN is another bar successful in Illinois, according to JOHN DUNN. The laltcr's new address is 903 Clinton, Oak Park, Illinois. 
A lengthy letter from BOB and SKIP SHOCKEY filled us in with a lot of news from Tennessee. Mar>* Erin arrived on the 16th of Fcbruaiy, weighing 7 lbs. 4 oz. Bob is getting into Court quite a bit these days. Their address is 3616 Highland Terrace Drive, Chattanooga. 
1st Lt. JIM COKER was appointed counsel for Pfc. Larry D. Chidcster, who nude the news for his activities criticizing President Kennedy's re3er\-e call. Jiro^s picture appeared in the S.B. Tribune on the I7th of April, before JFK took him off the hook by granting a pardon. 
Your reporter opened a pri%-atc law office on 15 January of this year. Very modest beginning, but have been given a substantial library by other attorneys here and. at a dollar down and a dollar a vear, have been adding to it. Address Is 202 Fresh BIdg.. 119 E. 2nd St. 
So that the same names do not appear here in eacli edition, would like to hear from some more of you who can give us news of unheard of members of the class. 
Tcrrcncc McCarthy 23420 Wellington Mt. Clements, Mich. 

From the .Alumni Office: 
TERRY MCCARTH Y missed his first deadline, still lining up correspondents in various parts of the world, but he figures the 1962 .Mumnt Directory xvill keep everyone posted for a little while. Mean­while, a few highlights from the wire ser\'ices. C.^RL PHILIP HOUCK was doubly honored at graduation. The Denver, Colo., graduate was named recipient of the third annual Rev. Joseph H. Cavanaugh Award, named for the former theology department head ^vho died in 1954, and awarded bv the depart­ment under REV. ROBERT PELTON, C.S.C., to the graduating senior ''who has evidenced high qualities of personal character and academic achieve­ment, particularly in theological studies. Carl also received a second consecutive Society of American Militarv Engineers Award. Before graduauon RAYMOND HEH.M\N was one of 62 college reps at Inside .Advertising Week, a five-day orientation program in New York sponsored by the .Advertising Club and the .Assn. of Advertising Men and Women-Ray was selected as an outstanding marketing major bv the College of Business .Adminbtration. WILLI.AM H. BEAVER of Hammond, Ind., was named to receive the Wall Street Journal .Achieve­ment .Award, made annually to the finance major with the best academic record. THOMAS £. COLLETON, JR., \vas awarded a Root-TIIden Scholarship to the N.Y.U. Law School. Tom was one of two winners from the Chicago Circuit Court area. Hailing from South Orange, N.J., he was Student Body vice-president and a represent­ative to the National Student Assn. .A Ph.D. of the Class, JOHN R. ROBERTS was appointed to the faculty of chemistry at Louisville's Bellarmlne College. John, a native of Bloomfield, Ky., was an .AEC research assistant in the University's radiation laboratory. 
NEW MEXICO — Universal Notre Dame  Night principals in Albuquerque last May 
included (from left): Frank P. Hudson, New Mcsco Club prc»dcnt; Kcv. Richard Butler, O.P., chaplain; James W. Frick, executive director of the Notre Dame Foundatioii and guest speaker; and Richard R. Everroad, vice-president of the Club. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1962 79 
«8^ 
- '> 
f^ ^ 

YOUR ALUMNI BOARD assembled in New York for a rare group photo last May: (seated, l.-r.) Vice-President Roger Huter, Vice-Preadent Maurice Carroll, President William Mahoney, Foundation Director Father John Walsh, Honorary President Walter Fleming, Secretary James Armstrong; (standing, l.-r.) Directors Peter Keman, John Dempscy, Adam Walsh, Oliver Hunter, Albert Castellini, miliam Fallon, Philip Faccenda, and Patrick Dougherty. Missing for reasons of illness was Vice-President Harry Mehre. i 
AT THE HOTEL COMMODORE the Board held the regular midyear meeting, then joined the presidents of Eastern Notre Dame clubs and class secretaries living on the East Coast in a two-day conference. They discussed problems of class and club organization, both separately and jointly. The Notre Dame Club of New York assisted nith arrangements for the conference, an experiment with annual regional meetings with club presidents in their own areas. 








