The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
/.. 

^ "t ^  , ^ i  -^m-r  
'^•P\  
if.v,. "^nVAY ?.­-<-":. -i} i >  
"l^.*:-  -'/f.^^^,  
Reunion dates:  
Si?  
JUNE  
3  
-m^^?^  «^.%-.  4  
^  
' •> n>  5  

(See program inside] f| 
174 The Notre Dame Alumnus May. 1938 
sirrs 

The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
From Mr. O. L. Rhoades, Siin Manufacturing Company, Chicago. 
A sun combustion tester, for the Department of Aeronautical Elngincering. 
From the Studdiafcer Corporation, South Bend. 
Two bound folio volumes of photostatic copies of dippings referring to the career of the late Knute Rockne. 
From: The Rev. John O'Brien, Yonkers, N. Y. Mr. Charles F. McTague^ Montdair, N. J. Mr. Edward L. Boyle, Sr., Duluth, Minn. 
Reference books for special libraries. 
From the Library of the University of Virginia. Forty-three volumes, for the College of Engineering. 

For the Rockne Mennorial 

E. F. Moran. M?: W. B. Moran, 74; J. R. Moran. Rev. J. A. McShane, Winnebago, Mmn. 10 
•25: J. A . Moran. 10: and \V. H. Moran, Rev. Michael P. Seter, Evansville, Ind. ._ 10 Tulsa, Oklahoma $1,000 Rev. William Murray, Chicago, Illinois 10 
E. T. Fleming, Dallas, Texas 500 Rev. John P. Donahue. Hopedale, Mass. 10 
J. A . LaFortune, '18, Tulsa 500 Rev. John C. Vismara, Detroit, Michigan 10 
A. \V. Leonard, •89--93. Tulsa 500 Rev. Martin J. Donlon, Brooklyn. N. Y. 10 
J. \V. Simmons, Dallas. Texas 250 Rev. Patrick Maguire. 70 , Murray, Utah 10 Joseph A . McGraw, '18, Tulsa 125 C. J. Senger, 37 , Tulsa 10 
W 
. J. Sherrs-, 'IZ-'ig, Tulsa 100 F. X. O'Neil. 77. Earp. Calif 5 

C.
 C. Cumraings, Tulsa . 100 Francis D . Partlan, '32, Chicago 5 

B.
 F. McLain, '07-'08, Dallas, Texas 100 Rev. J. B. Toomey. 76. Bin^amlon. N. Y. 5 

R.
 H. Siegfried, Tulsa __ 100 Rev. E. J. Holahan. Easton. Pa. 5 William F. Sheehan. 75, South Bend 100 Rev. Wm. A. Homak. Bayonne, N. J. 5 

D.
 P. Buell, '24, Dallas 50 Rev. Philip Cahill. Chicago 5 Notre Dame Club of Rock River Valley 50 Rev. Leo R. Walsh, Lansing, Michigan 3 Rev. James A . Boland, Philadelphia 25 Rev. Leo J. Hanley. Chicago . 2 Rev. Thomas F. McCarthy, West Soraerville, Mass. 25 Rev. W. Klinkhammer, E. Grand Forks, Minn. I Rev. Joseph A. Baran. Sheppton. Pa. 25 Rev. Joseph Brcphy, Brooklyn, N. Y. 25 Total $3,756 Rev. Charles J. Williams. '18, Piper City, III 20 Total new gifts ._ Ji 3.756.00 Rev. E. P. Murphy, El. 76, Portland, Ore. 20 Previously acknowledged _ 167,297.49 Rev. Walter A. fCieman. Brooklyn. N. Y 15 Rev. D. J. Donnelly, Utica, N. Y. 10 Grand total to date. May 1, 1938_ -$171,053.49 

N.
 B.—Since the last report, an oflicial visitation was made to the Central Southwest and quotas tutcd for the Alumni Clubs of Tulsa. Dallas, Houston and Shreveport, and Beaumont and Port Arthur. 


For the Nieuwiand Memorial 

Anonymous , -$12768.48 
Robert G. Quinn. '23 - 150 Donald B. Killian, Wilmington, Delaware _ 100 Dr. and Mrs. Marcus Lyon, Jr., South Bend , _ 100 John William Kroeger, '34 60 Sylvester L. Rapier, '33 50 Ronald E. Rich, 7 8 50 Andreiv J. Boyle. '28 50 Dr. Guslav Egloff, Chicago, III. 25 Edmond J. Quinn. '11 25 Anonymous 25 SpringBeld and Central Illinois Club 25 Dr. James F- Norris, Boston. Mass. 10 Dr. Albert S. Carter, Wilmington, Delaware 10 
Total . 12,948.48 Previously acknowledged _. 24,044.05 
Grand Total to date. May 1. 1938 . -$36,99233 
/^^ ^. ^
'CtA.A.^'JC. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMU E. ARMSTKONC 75 The maKazine is published from October to June inclusive by the Alumni Associ«tSao Moaber of die .of the University of Sotrv Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. Tlie sabseription price is ^0 0 
EJilor Alumm Cbutil. 
a year: the price of single copies is 23 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 inchid* 
WOUAM R. DOOLEY, 76 a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, MemberofN«tXa*olk 
Managing EJitor 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879. Alumni Federalka 
Vol. 16 MAy, 1938 No. 6 
Announce Plans (or 
Commencement 
Apostolic Delegate To Give Sermon 

The program tells an eloquent story for all alumni who have enjoyed a Commencement at Notre Dame, espe­cially other than their own. 
Of the reunions, the golf, the ban­quet, life in the halls, the baseball games, the lakes, the band and glee club, the dramatics, the baccalaureate sermon, the Commencement address, —^little can be said that hasn't been said many times. 
Of course the ALUMNUS points with pride to the selection of a mem­ber of the Association as Commence­ment speaker. This is not the first time, but it always marks that achievement of alumni and the recog­nition of it by the University which is one of the objectives of alumni associations. 
Those who recall the few but de­lightful remarks of the Apostolic Delegate in 1934, look forward to the baccalaureate sermon with the greatest pleasure. His coming also emphasizes the centennial of the founding of the Congregation of Holy Cross. This significant event has been observed quietly within the Order, but alumni will be happy to participate in at least one commem­orative ceremony. 
Because of the Centennial Mass, the annual Mass for Deceased Alum­ni on Saturday morning has been eliminated this year. Substitute for it is an official pilgrimage, under the leadership of the St. Joseph Valley Club, to the Community Cemetery at 5 o'clock Saturday afternoon, to say prayers for the deceased alumni and Community members. This custom has been followed by a growing group on an informal basis, and it is hoped the general alumni group will join this year in the beautiful tribute, where countless memories stirred by the familiar names on the simple 
headstones prove that there is no with other returned alumni. death. The '28 vs. '33 softbaU game Sat­The old-fashioned Carroll Hall urday morning launches a new type Smoker of the Class of 1928 on Sat­rivalry which promises to succeed the urday night after the Banquet is old varsity-alumni games of the i>ast. also a new feature, designed to "give Attention of alumni Knights of the boys back to the campus" as well Columbus is also called to the Open as vice versa. The '28ers have prom­House of No. 1477. ised to be generous on both sides of 
The biggest and best bet for any 

their year in sharing the program 
Commencement is BE HERE. 
NINETY-FOURTH ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
(All events are scheduled on Central Standard Time) 
Friday, June 3 
Registration of Alumni—Alumni OfHce (Rooms available Friday). Opening of the Alumni Gfolf Tournament—University Course. Reunion Classes Meet—1888-93-98-1903-08-13-18-23-28-33. 
2:00 P.M. Baseball. Wisconsin vs. Notre Dame. Cartier Field. 
7:00
 f.M. Concert, Main Quadrangle. University Band. 

7:00
 P.M. Golden Jubilee Dinner. Oass of 1888. 

7:00
 KM. Silver Jubilee Dinner. Oass of 1913. 



8:00
 P.M. Washington Hall, The University Theatre, 

8:00
 P.M. Five-Year Reunion Smoker and BufTet. Class of 1933, Columbia Athletic Club,

South Bend. 


8:00
 P.M. Special Reunion, Class of 1931. German Village, South Bend. 


Saturday, June 4 
Registration of Alumni—Alumni Office. Alumni and Qass Golf Tournaments—University Course. 
9:00 A.M. In Sacred Heart Church the Most Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicognani. DJ)., Titular Archbishop of Laodicea and Apostolic Delegate to the United States, ^vitl pontificate at a special Solemn Pontifical Mass to commemo­rate the 100th Anniversary of the founding of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
10:30 A.M. Class Day Exercises and Award of Prizes, Washington Hall. 
11:00 A.M. Softball game. Class of 1928 vs. CHass of 1933 teams. 
1:00 P.M. Ninth Annual Council of Local Alumni Gubs, Court Room of the Law Building. 
2:00 P.M. Baseball, Wisconsin vs. Notre Dame. Cartier Field. 
5:00 P.M. Prayers for Deceased Alumni and Faculty. Conmiunity Cemetery. (Sacred Heart Church if weather is bad.) This ceremony is arranged by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley. 
6:00 P.M. Alumni Banquet. East Hall University Dining Halls. 
7:00 P.M. Concert, University Band. Main Quadrangle. 
8:00 P.M. Musical organizations. Washington Hall. 
9:00 P.M. Old-Fashioned Carroll Hall Smoker, Cass of 1928. Carroll Hall Rec Room. U'^ashington Hail. 
N.B. The Notre Dame Council. Knights of Columbus. No. 1477. will hold open house in the newly decorated Council Chambers in the basement of Walsh Hall, on Saturday, June 4, for alumni members, from 9:00 ajn. to 
S:00 p.m. A committee of the Council will serve as reception hosts. 
Sunday, June 5 
•8:30 A.M. Academic Procession. Main Building to the University Gymnasium. 
9:00 A.M. Solemn Pontifical Slass, University Gymnasium. Baccalaureate Sermon, ISIost Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicognani. DJ>. Titular 
Archbishop of Laodicea and Apostolic Delegate to the United States. JIusic. the University Choir of Moreau Seminary. 
The American Flag, presented by the Qass of 1938. will be blessed immedi­ately following the jMass. . 
11:00 A.M, Raising of the Flag, Main Quadrangle. 
12:00 M. Monogram Luncheon, University Dining Halls. 
1:00 P.M. Luncheon for Alumni District Governors. University Dining Halls. 
4:00 P.M. Awarding of Degrees to the Class of 1938, University Gymnasium. 
Commencement Address, Mr. Terence Byrne Cosgrove. LL.B.. 1906. JLos Angeles California. 
176 The Notre Dame Alumnus May. 1938 


THE PRESIDENT'S PAGE Bvw,,™ECc«e,i3 
My year as president of the Alum­ni Association is drawing to a close. Time is short and circumstances hampering for the president of the Association to accomplish many things during his term. I have tried to con­fine my efforts within one major channel. 
I have tried to picture Notre Dame 
to its alumni, to you. 
In October, when I outlined for 
you the program of the Association, 
together with my own impressions of 
Notre Dame, the entire picture 
seemed clear enough. 
In November, when I tried to give you the strides which Notre Dame has made academically, and to urge you to participate with me in inter­peting this great growth to the world at large, it began to dawn on me that Notre Dame in its recent rapid expansion had grown away from the true comprehension of its alumni, even from those of us who are deeply interested in its current problems and progress and fancy ourselves close to the campus. 
Questions began to arise in my own mind. Where had this progress come from? How was it financed? And then I became conscious of the needs of Notre Dame. It is true that needs once formed a part of the University catalog. And Father Charles O'Don­nell began the practice of utilizing the ALUMNUS to express them. But as I studied the present complex cam­pus and the many brilliant projects nurtured or launched by the present administration, the expression of these needs assumed a new signifi­cance. 
In my own enthusiasm, in the De­
cember-January ALUMNUS I tried to 
impress upon you why we should, as 
alumni, give to Notre Dame. 
Then I realized that probably you, 
•who naturally have not been so obli­gated to study Notre Dame as I have been this year ex officio, might need further enlightenment to be similarly convinced. 
So in February, I compared for you the development at Notre Dame, and tried to stress the significance of this achievement in the face of a lack of resources which seemed ridiculous­ly obvious when compared to the rich endowments of other leading univer­sities. 
And you naturally wondered, as I had suddenly wondered, what has Notre Dame used for money? 
And in the last ALUMNUS, the March-April issue, I tried, with the aid of the University, to bring home to you the various unusual factors 
which have enabled Notre Dame to. 
progress. 
And this last page was, to me, the most significant. For it has convinced me that unless we all understand these things and move to perpetuate them, the progress which we have admired and the very school that we love are jeopardized. 
Miracle 
My study this year of the progress of Notre Dame in the light of its his­tory and its resources leads me to believe that a miracle has risen in Indiana. 
It is not new or miraculous that a poor soil, irrigated by the perspira­tion, and the tears, and the very blood of those who love it can be made to bloom. 
But it seems to me to be beyond the laws of nature that such a blos­soming should survive the elements that have existed throughout the his­tory of Notre Dame. 
In the first years, poverty con­stantly threatened. Disease decimated the little community. Then fire leveled the physical labors of 37 years. 
All of these, like the afflictions of Job, were accepted as the hand of God. And faith built where flesh alone would have faltered. 
Threat 
Notre Dame's position today is in many ways more seriously threatened than by those physical elements of earlier tribulations. 
Notre Dame now has a physical 
WILLIAM E . COTTEK, '13 . , . a miracle has risen. . ." 
plant, a teaching personnel, and ob­
ligations to students, alimmi and soc­
iety, which require a large annual 
expenditure. I have pointed out that 
many of the factors responsible for 
the progress to date cannot be count­
ed on further, and many are liable 
to a damaging fluctuation through 
changing social conditions. 
In one week this past month, I 
have seen two significant statements. 
In one of them a leading educator, 
guiding the policy of the teacher 
training of a great university, states 
that there is no fixed hierarchy of 
truth; that there are no criteria out­
side the realm of experience. In an­
other, a leading magazine makes the 
observation that there is nothing in 
the Constitution of the United States 
to define this country as a Christian 
nation. The latter statement, true in 
the letter, departs dangerously from 
the spirit, by which the Constitution 
emerged as the instrument which was 
to protect those inalienable rights 
which the more significant Declara­
tion of Independence defined as the 
gift of a Creator to all men. 
Double Challenge 
Agencies and universities from which these disastrous social doc­trines are emanating are highly financed. 
A recent report stated that more than ?680,000,000 had been given to higher education by the foundations in this country. More than a third of this total went to ten major universi­ties, none of them Catholic. 
By a recent act of Congress, the 69 land grant colleges will soon be receiving $34,000,000 annually from federal funds alone. 
And private endowments in the secula r universities continue to thrive. Nicholas Murray Butler, pres­ident of Columbia, one of the leaders in endowment, has just announced expansion plans which call for an additional $50,000,000. 
The result of this vast financing of secular education is a double chal­lenge. 
Notre Dame is threatened, in the race for resources, with an inevitable falling behind in personnel and equip­ment which will bring ultimate fail­ure of its obligation to society. 
And at the same time, this society, by the very prevalence of error and crumbling of fundamentals, offers opportunities which intensify this ob­ligation a hundredfold. 
One Aim From all this, and I can only give 


(Continued on Page 219) 

May, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Who's Who on the 1938-39 Slate 
Being Only A Few of the Handy Highlights of the Candidates Whom the Efficient Nominating Com­mittees Have Offered for the Association's Leaders. 
Honorary President 

REV. MATTHEW J. WALSH, 
C.S.C. In the unanimous nomination for the Honorary President of the Association, the Committees hav e selected one of the great priests of Holy Cross. Receiving his LittB. at Notre Dame in 1903, Father Walsh went to Washington, where he com­pleted his theology and received his Ph.D. from Catholic XJ. in 1908. In 1907-08 he also took graduate work at Johns Hopkins. From 1908 to 1934 Father Walsh was at Notre Dame continuously as a teacher and executive, with the exception of ser­vice as chaplain in the World War. He served as vice-president of the University for sevei-al years under the late Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. And from 1922 to 1928 he was presi­dent of Notre Dame, leading the Uni­versity through the important transi­tion stages that followed the endow­ment campaign and the development of the Greater Notre Dame. 

President 

TERENCE B.COSGROVE. "Terry" Cosgrove received his A.B. from St. Viator's College, and came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1904. He received his LL.B. in 1906. But during that time he made a lasting impression and contributed to the history of the University. He was a brilliant student. And in addition he was a talented debater. On May 17, 
'1906, the Notre Dame law school de­bating team went to Washington, D. C, to debate a Georgetown team. It was the first time Notre Dame met an Eastern school in debate. The members of the Notre Dame team were T. B. Cosgrove, the late Pat Malloy, and G. A. Farabaugh. The decision was unanimous in favor of the Notre Dame team, on the topic of compulsory arbitration of labor-capi­tal disputes, Notre Dame holding the affirmative. This team was coached by Col. Hoynes, who always held Mr. Cosgrove in high esteem. For the past 18 years Mr. Cosgrove has been practicing law in Los Angeles. He has recently specialized in the prob­lems of water rights and has won great professional distinction in this field. Mr. Cosgrove is a bachelor. He has been actively identified with the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles. 
AMBROSE O'CONNELL. ". . . O'Connell has President Roose­velt cheated a block when it comes to the strenuous life. . . ." Believe it or not, this was written about Ambrose in the Dome of 1907, when he was president of his class, business man­ager of the Dome, private secretary to Fathers Morrissey and Cavanaugh, 
TERENCE B. COSGROVE, LL-B. '06 
Underwood & Undervrood. WashinEton, D. C. AMBROSE A. O'CONNELL, PH.B . '07 
president of the Iowa dub, campus 
correspondent for a number of met­
ropolitan newspapers and active in 
the Shakespeare and Dramatic Clnbs. 
In addition he was a member of the 
track team. The President Roosevelt 
mentioned was Teddy. But, today, 
as executive assistant postmaster gen­
eral, it is probable that F.D.R. could 
be substituted, and the same com­
ment made of Ambrose. His present 
important position comes after an 
active career which followed his re­
ceiving a law degree in 1910 from 
Columbia University- in New York. 
From that time on he was prominent 
in New York legal circles. He is a 
member of the New York and Fed­
eral bars. For three and a half years 
he was with the Guaranty Trust as 
la\vyers' contact man. Ambrose is 
married and has four children. He 
retains his home in Forest Hills Gar­
dens. Like most good New Yorkers, 
Ambrose is not a native. He was 
bom in Iowa and graduated from the 
Ottumwa, Iowa, high school. 

First Vice-President 

JOSEPH B. MCGLYNN. Joe Mc-Glynn, LL.B. of 1912, is one of three brothers who came to Notre Dame from East St. Louis, 111. They are back in East St. Louis in a law part­nership which ramifies all over the Mississippi Valley. Joe, for instance, in the profession, has been city at­torney, master in chancery and cor­poration counsel. He was also D.G.K. of the K. of C, master of the fourth degree and district deputy, and coast­ed into the grand knight's chair from this background. He has followed almost parallel honors in the Ameri­can Legion. Joe is married, has three children. He was president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis, and has visited the campus frequently in recent years. 
WILLIAM A. WALSH." Billy" Walsh, '97, has the natives of Yon­kers, N. Y., — of which he has been mayor , corporation counsel, city judge, bar association president, boy scout council president, chamber of commerce president, and other civic and professional honorary and active office-holder — pretty well sold on Notre Dame as the campus roster shows. Billy's own son, William A. Jr., was graduated in 1936. There 
(Continued on Page 219) 178 The Notre Dame Alumnus May, 1938 




UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS . < < 
r\R . lEVIN ABELL of Louisville, •*-' Kentucky, president-elect of the American Medical Association, will he the recipient of the Laetare Medal, bestowed annually since 1883 by the University of Notre Dame upon an outstanding member of the Catholic laity. The name of the medal's recip­ient is traditionally announced on Laetare Sunday, the Fourth Sunday of Lent. 
In announcing the name of this year's medalist Father O'Hara, as chairman of the Laetare Medal Com­mittee, made the following state­ment: 
"The merit of Dr. Abell in his pro­fession has been signally recognized in his election to the presidency of the American Medical Association, and his varied service to city and state and nation, as surgeon, citizen, soldier, and Christian gentleman, has endeared him in the esteem of a nimi­erous and extensive public benefitted by his years of devotion to the com­plete welfare of his fellow-men. Most significant perhap s among the achievements of this eminent man of medicine is his contribution to the difficult science of psychiatry and his efficient effort toward the cure and prevention of mental disorder. Hence, it is anticipated that the selectiion of Dr. Irvin William Abell as the one most worthy of being added this year to the distinguished company of Lae­tare medalists will have the hearty approval from a large public already aware of his merit." 
Dr. Abell has had a long and dis­tinguished career in surgery. At the last annual meeting of the American Medical Association he was chosen as the association's new president. He will take office at the 1938 meeting of the association in San Francisco. 
Bom September 13, 1876 in Le­banon, Kentucky, Dr. Abell descends from a family who originally settled in Kentucky in 1788. He was gradu­ated from St. Mary's College, St. Mary's Kentucky, in 1892 and five years later took his degree in medi­cine from the University of Louisville Medical School where he has served as a professor of clinical surgery since 1904. In Europe Dr. Abell studied at the University of Marburg and the University of Berlin in Ger­many. He is married and the father of three children. 
In April of 1937, during the cen­tennial celebration of the University 
DE. IRVIN ABELL 
Laetare Medalist, 1938 
of Louisville School of Medicine, Dr. Abeil was honored with the degree of Doctor of Science, the citation de­scribing him as one "beloved by thousands whose lives your skill Has saved." 
A contributor of numerous articles to the nation's leading surgical jour­nals. Dr. Abell has been a vital force in advancing and improving Ken­tucky's eleemosynary institutions. He has been particularly vigorous in his efforts to secure proper preventive and curative treatments for the mentally deficient. 
During the last visit to Louisville of the Apostolic Delegate, Most Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, Dr. Abell was selected by the laymen of the Diocese of Louisville as their repre­sentative. 
A lieutenant-colonel in the U. S. Army Medical Corps during the World War Dr. Abell is now a colonel in the Medical Reserve Corps. 
C
ANON GEORGES LE MAITRE, the world noted mathematician who is this year a guest professor in the University, was the speaker at the March meeting of the Catholic Forum in South Bend. His subject was the "The Expanding Universe." Dr. Leo F. Kuntz, head of the De­partment of Education, was the speaker at the April meeting of the Forum, discussing "Viewpoints in Philosophies of Education." 
rriHREE NOTRE DAME professors -^gave a series of three lectures in March in the Law Building on the campus under the auspices of the Notre Dame Welfare Leag:ue, a group of local women engaged in social wel­fare work. Rev. James A. Fogarty, of the Department of Economics, spoke on the subject, "Who Owns Our Wealth?"; Professor T. Bo^vyer Campbell, of the Department of His­tory, discussed the topic, "Can Japan Conquer China?"; and Dr. Daniel O'Grady, of the Department of Phil­osophy, answered the question, "What Does Philosophy Say Today?" 
M
ORAl DECAY IS THE cause of 
world wide unrest today and the 
foundation on which dictatorial gov­
ernments are built, Rev. John F. 
O'Hara, C.S.C, president of Notre 
Dame, told Indiana University stu­
dents on April 6 at a special convoca­
tion in Bloomington. 
Father O'Hara's talk was one of a series of lectures by well known religious leaders sponsored by the Indiana University campus Religious Council. 
Speaking on "How Religion Can Stop Moral Decay," Father O'Hara pointed out that there are only two real theories of government; One, in which the rights of man are predom­inant, and the other in which the state is omnipotent. 
AN EXHIBITION of the water 
•"• colo r paintings of Alphonse Xavier Peiia, 30-year-old Mexican whose art won wide acclaim at the Paris exposition, was held in the University library on March 9 and 
10. One of the paintings was pur­chased by the student Spanish Club and presented to the University. 
T
WO LEA'JTHER-BOUND volumes containing photostatic reproduc­tions of the national tribute lavished upon the late Knute Rockne in news­papers, magazines and other publica­tions were presented on March 28 to the University of Notre Dame as a gift from the Studebaker corpora­tion. 
The presentation was made at the weekly luncheon of the Association of Commerce in South Bend. Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of the University, received the volumes from Paul G. Hoffman, president of the Studebaker Corporation. Howard (Cap) Edwards presided. 
Weing 52 pounds, the tribute to 

May, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Notre Dame's great football coach will be placed in the University ar­chives. Page size of the books is 17 by 21 inches and the inscription reads: "A Nation's Tribute to Knute Kenneth Rockne —1888-1931." The first volume of 204 pages contains news comments on the death of Rock­ne from South Bend, New York, Chi­cago, Atlanta, Georgia, and Los An­geles, California. The second volume, containing 250 pages, is a compila­tion of editorial comment, verse, drawings and photographs, syndicated and local sport comment, miscellane­ous tributes, and magazine and col­lege publication articles. 
D
R. FERDINAND ALOYS KARL HERMENS, of the Catholic Uni­versity of America, will join the fac­ulty of the University of Notre Dame for the schoolyear of 1938-39 as an associate professor of politics, it was announced recently. 
Dr. Hermens is now completing his third year as assistant professor of economics at Catholic University. A recognized authority in the field of political science, Dr. Hermens was sent to Europe in 1937 by the Gug­genheim Foundation to make a study of European electoral systems. 
His views on the question of pro­portional representation in national legislative bodies were the cause of debate in the French Chamber of Deputies at one time. He bases his theory of representative government on the doctrine of rule solely by the majority. 
Dr. Hermens received his doctorate from the University of Bonn, Ger­many, in 1930, two years after ob­taining his diploma in economics there. Later he studied at the Uni­versity of Rome, and the School of Economics, London. 
He is a well-known contributor to Commomveal as well as several Ger­man, French and Swiss periodicals. 
R
ICHARD CROOKS, NOTED star of opera and radio, Avas to ap­pear in concert in the University gymnasium on May 6 under the joint sponsorship of various women's or­ganizations in South Bend and the University. His appearance was planned as the climax of Music Week. 
As this issue of the ALUMNUS was in preparation, intensive work on the concert was under way. Especially active on the campus in the project were Frank W. Lloyd, Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C., Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C. and Thomas J. Barry. Mrs. E, M. Morris, wife of E. M. Morris, '06, was one of the most active workers in South Bend. 
SONS OF ALUMNI AT NOTRE DAME INCREASE 
Stuart Carroll, '16, in a familiar verse, "The Old Timer," penned as an alumnus, wrote the following: 
". . . V/hen I meet an N. D. fellow Then the past seems kind of misty As he pikes along the line But from ivhat I've seen I know I just wonder if his bttddies That they're staying in the footsteps Are as loyal pals as viine; Of the lads I used to knoio." 
A more appropriate lead would be hard to find for a story of the gprowing number of boys on the campus who are second generation, and in a few cases third, Notre Dame men. 
Following is the list, insofar as the Alumni Office has been able to compile it from personal knowledge and records. Any omissions will be gladly noted in the subsequent issue so that both father and son receive the acknowledgements their loyalty deserves. 
Son Father 
Alfred H. Bergman, CM 1 .A.lfred H. (Big Dutch) Sr., '14, Peru, Ind. John F. Berteling, EG 4 „John F. Berteling, '08, Hamilton, Ont. William H. Bosler, EG 1 William N. Bosler, '04, Louisville, Ky. Joseph E. Broussard, EG 1 Clyde E. Broussard, '13, Beaumont, Texas Hugh L. Bums, PE 3 William P. Bums, '96, Michigan City, Ind. 
Albert A., AB 4, and 1 Frank L. Butler, Sr., '94, Lakewood, Ohio 
Charles E. Butler, AB 2J Robert E. Centlivre, CM 2 Carl Centlivre, '09, Fort Wayne, Ind. Ale-xis Coquillard, CM 2 Alexis Coquillard, '03, South Bend William E. Cotter, Jr., CM 1 William E. Cotter, '13, New York City Charles W. Cripe, PE 1 Clarence C. Cripe, '08, Buchanan, Mich. Thomas F. Crumley, EG 1 Harry V. Crumley, '03, Cincinnati, O. Gregory P. Gushing, EG 3 John F. Gushing, '06 (deceased) Danaher Dempsey, CM 3 John J. Dempsey, '95, Tacoma, Wash. Samuel Leeper De\ine, LW 1 _ John F. Devine, Jr., '12 (deceased) John W., Jr., AB 3, and) John W. Dubbs, '03, Mendota, HI. 
Joseph Dubbs, AB 2 ) John C, AB 2, and Thomas I Henry Femeding, '96, Dayton, O. 
C, AB 2 (twins) Fernedingf Thomas C. Funk, CM 4 Elmo A. Funk, '11, Anderson, Ind. Joseph F. Hartzer, CM 2 .Joseph F. Hartzer (deceased) Bruce Hebenstreit, CM 1 -Anton R. Hebenstreit, '11, Albuquerque, N. M. 
Donald F., AB 4, and 1 Thomas L. Hickey, Special, South Bend 
Gerald A. Hickey, EG If Bernard F. Hiss, CM 3 Frank J. Hiss, '16, South Bend Donald E. Hosinski, AB 2 Aloysius W. HosinsW, '16, South Bend Jerome, EG 3, and Richard) Regidius M. Kaczmarek, '13, South Bend 
Kaczmarek, AB 3 J Leroy J. Keach, AB 1 Leroy Keach, '08, Indianapolis, Ind. John C, SC 2, and William) William A. Kelleher, '15, Lorain, O. 
A. Jr., SC 1, Kelleher ( . . . Raymond J. Kelly, CM 1 Ray J. Kelly, '16, Detroit, Mich. Patrick H. Malloy, LW 1 Pat Malloy, '07 (deceased) Tulsa, Okla. William F. Mclnemy, .A.B 3....William A. Mclnemy, '01 (deceased) South Bend Torgus Oaas, EG 1 Torgus Oaas, 14, Butte, Mont. William R. O'Neill, AB 1 Ronald O'Neill, '14, Detroit, Mich. Robert B. Pick, AB 2 Carl Pick, "11, West Bend, Wis. Thomas G. Proctor, LW 3 Robert E. Proctor, '04, Elkhart, Ind. Knute K. Rockne, Jr., CM 1 Knute K. Rockne, '14 (deceased) South Bend Howard A. Rohan, CM 1 Howard J. Rohan, '15, Cincinnati, O. William R. Ryan, Jr., EG 3 William E. Ryan, '11, Shaker Heights, O. John E. Savord, AB 3 Edmond H. Savord, '12, Sandusky, O. Roger Shouvlin, EG 1 Daniel R. Shouvlin, '14, Springfield, O. Henry E., CM 4, and James) Alba H. Wrape, '12, Paragould, Ark. 
D., CM 1, Wrape J Edward C. Wurzer, Jr., CM 1 Edward C. Wurzer, '03, Detroit, Mich. 
Many of the above names, in addition to bringing visions and echoes from some of the most memorable periods in Notre Dame history, have additional significance and Notre Dame emphasis in the presence on the campus at one time or another of grandfathers, uncles and brothers, which the space in this article does not permit. 
And a survey of several years ago indicates that the above number, incom­plete as it may be now, does not begin to equal the number of sons of alumni that the next few years will bring. 
These are the living links that forge the strongest chains. Father John Cavanaugh once called traditions the rich tapestries of all noble halls. It is pleasing to anyone ^vith the interests of Notre Dame at heart to see these familiar figures weaving the present scene from a pattern of the past with which they are one. 
180 The Notre D ana e Alumnus May, (938 
» »



SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
"piCHARD J. DUNN, '18, was re­-*-^' cently elected vice-president of the Catholic Alumni Sodality of Bos­ton and will become its president in 1939. The Sodality, a noted organi­zation comprised of 1,150 college men who meet monthly for a Communion-

PhotoRraph by Bachrach 
RICHARD J. DUNN, '18 
breakfast, is more than 50 years old. Many of the outstanding speakers of the United States have addressed it. 
Besides being a partner in the law firm of Dunn, Scannell and Roberts, 260 Tremont Street, Boston, Dick is vice-president of the Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Company and the American Motorists Insurance Com­pany and a director of the Federal Mutual Fire Insurance Company, the Federal Mutual Liability Insurance Company and the Associated Mutu­als. Inc. He is a trustee of the Metro­politan State Hospital and, until the present schoolyear, when his other duties became too heavy, he was pro­fessor of insurance in the Boston College Law School. 
With his family (four sons and two daughters)' Dick resides at 300 Wav­erly Aveniie, Newton, Massachusetts. 
•pOREST FLETCHER, '12, captain •*- of the track team and its high point man in his student days at Notre Dame and a member of the 1912 Olympic team in Stockholm, is still in the athletic spotlight as head of the Department of Hygiene and Physical Education and track coach at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. In addition, he is one of the guiding figures in the Southern Conference. 
Forest was at the State Normal School, Cedar City, Utah, and Mitch­ell High school, JlitchelJ, South Da­kota, before he went to Washington and Lee in 1914 as coach of track and basketball. With time out for ser\'ice as top sergeant in charge of the W. and L. ambulance unit in the World War, he's been there since. 
Returning to W. and L. in 1919 as associate professor of physical educa­tion. Forest helped to start the Southern Conference in 1920. He was made head of the University's Hy­giene and Phy. Ed. department in 1921. In 1934-35 he was secretary of the Southern Conference and, in 1935-36-37, its president. At present he is a member of the Conference's executive committee and a member of the advisory committee on sports for the New York World's Fair. 
Forest married Laura Powell Tuck­er of Lexington in 1919 and they have two daughters and a son. List­ing his "chief accomplishments," he says: "Having attended Notre Dame and having married my mfe." 
FOREST FLETCHER, '12 
•TiRANK J. SHAUGHNESSY, Phar­
•^ macy, ^03, Law, '06, star in foot­ball and baseball at Notre Dame in the early 1900's and captain of the foot­ball team in 1904, has, from that fly­ing start, continued to the top flight of athletic fame as president of the 
International League of Professional 
Baseball Clubs. He was elected to 
this position in 1936 and re-elected in 
1937,for a three-year term. 
Frank's record since he left Notre 
Dame is one of consistent accomplish­
ment in many fields. Briefly, here it 
Blank & Stollcr Photo 
FRANK J. SHAUGHNESSY, '06 
is: Coached football at Clemson Col­lege and later assisted with football at both Harvard and Williams; played baseball in the American League with Washington and Phila­delphia and with Reading and San Francisco in the minor leagues; man­aged Roanoke, Virginia, baseball team for three years, winning pen­nant in one year; practiced law in Roanoke for three years; managed 
Fort Wayne, Indiana, baseball team and won pennant, one year; owned and managed Ottawa, Canada, base­ball team, three years, winning pen­nant each year; managed Ottawa National League hockey team, three years; officer in Canadian Army in World War, three years; coached McGill University football team, 16 years, and McGill hockey team, five years; managed Syracuse Interna­tional League baseball team, four years; managed Montreal Interna­tional League baseball team, two years, winning pennant one year; genera l manager Montreal team, three years. 
Frank was married to Miss Kather­ine Quinn of Ottawa, Canada, in 1908, and is the father of eight sons and one daughter. The Shaughnessy home is in Montreal. 

May, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
By JOHN J. LECHNER. "37 


CAMPUS NOTES » » 
PUBLICITY 
Because of her national promi­nence Noti'e Dame annually winnows more than her share of newspaper lineage. Sometimes, however, amus­ing errors in stox-ies which apparently have had their birth from a pair of scissors and a pot of paste. For ex­ample: Headline—^"Notre Dame Has Bright Prospects In Football." The lead paragraph of the story: "Nine returning lettermen out of 13 give Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline a sti-ong nucleus for his 1938 Notre Dame basketball team, which will open its schedul e against Western State Teachers at Kalamazoo Api'il 14. The pitching department is Coach Kline's only major worry." To show he plays no favorites Jake should costume his lads in track outfits. 
Richard Crooks, noted radio and operatic tenor, wl\o was to come to the campus on May 6, also was treated rather shabbily typographically by the Herald and Examiner. They an­nounced that "Tenor Croaks Will Feature Musical Week." 
GOLDEN JUBILEE 
Last month marked the 50th anni­versary of one of Notre Dame's most popular figures, Brother Angelus, C.S.C, present guestmaster in the Administration Building. In point of ser\'ice. Brother Angelus is now the second oldest member of the Congre­'gation. He looks to be around 50 years old, which would be impossible since that would have him entering the order at the age of zero-zero. The Brother, however, always neatly 
sidesteps the question of age. 
He was at Notre Dame during 
Father Sorin's time, and his occa­
sional reminiscences are always in­
teresting. Brother Angelus, however, 
prefei-s to live in the future rather 
than in the past. A discussion of 
next week's events in Washington 
hall or coming athletic contests are 
more likely to be his conversational 
topics than his 50-year experiences 
in the Holy Cross congregation. For 
many years he traveled about the 
world for The Ave Maria, and each 
Christmas gifts and cards from cities 
and countries he had visited during 
his Ave Maria days help to make the 
Main Building mailbag heavy. A na­
tive of Ireland Brother Angelus at 
the present time is worried over 
whether he vnll be permitted to vote 
in the coming primary elections since 
he has lost the receipts for his natur­
alization papers. 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF 
Campus electioneering is now in full swing . . . Maybe we're getting old, but it seems to us the boys haven't the old up-and-at-'em cam­paign spirit of previous years . . . Most of the signs are rather clever, however, with cartoons featured . . . Last year advertising methods ran mostly to blocks of canvas from second-story rooms bearing the names of candidates. . . . 
NEW MANAGERS The 1938-39 managerships have been announced . . . Manager of foot­ball, Joseph F. Di-ay, New Haven, Connecticut; associate football mana­gers: stadium, Lucien J. La Croix, Hackensack, New Jersey; and equip­ment, ."indrew F. Wilson, Kew Gar­dens, New York; basketball, Daniel 
C. Sheedy, Snyder, New York; track, Joseph R. Gorman, Alliance, Ohio; baseball, Albert F. Van Huffel, War­ren, Ohio; and tennis, Robert C. Bolz, Union City, New Jersey .. . The debating team is i-apidly developing into the New York Yankees of the forensic world . . . They won iive out of six debates at a conference held at Madison, Wisconsin. 
• 

HOYNES BANQUET The Law Club really did itself proud this year with the annual Col­onel William Hoynes Memorial ban­quet . . . Sam Jackson of Fort Wayne, Indiana, prominent attorney. Judge John J. McGoorty of the Cook Coun­ty Superior Court, Professor Pat Manion, Dean Thomas F. Konop, and Maurice F. Quinn, Buffalo, New York, senior law student, were featured on a program built around former Chief Justice of the Indiana Supreme Court Walter E. Treanor . . . Judge Trean­or has been recently appointed a jus­tice of the United States circuit court of appeals . , . Bob Schmelzle, Free­port, Illinois, acted as toastmaster . . . 
• 

PRIZE STUDENTS Of the four sophomore students who were awarded scholarship prizes for outstanding freshman scholastic accomplishments two wer e from South Bend, Tom Mai-ker and John 
F. Reback . . . South Bend boys are certainly intelligent . . . Phil Sand-maier, Lakewood, Ohio, and Russell Harris, Little Rock, Arkansas, com­plete the quartet . . . Soon the Scholastic hoys irill be shedding tears in print as they write their farewell stories . . . Jack Denny's orchestra will feature the Senior Ball .. . In­stead of the usual favors each couple will be photographed as they make their appearance, a print of which will be sent to each a week later. . . . Notre Dame's University players pre­sented "Journey's End" in Washing­ton Hall . . . Capacity house for two nights. . . . 
JOURNALISM JUBILEE 
Another anniversary was that of the silver jubilee of the Department of Journalism and its head. Dr. John 
M. Cooney . . . The occasion was the annual banquet of the Press Club . . . Merrill C. Meigs, vice-president and general manager of Hearst maga­zines, was the principal speaker . . . Also on the program were Father O'Hara, the Most Reverend John Francis Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, and John Freedy, press club prexy . . . Father Thomas J. Bren­nan, C.S.C, acted as toastmaster. . . . 
PRODUCER McHUGH 
Jim McHugh, who graduated last year, will be surprised to learn that accoi-ding to the Scholastic he is pro­ducing an hour-long campus radio program to be aired late this month . . . Just a case of the picture of the wrong McHugh in the Scholastic . . . The last we heard of Jim he was out in the East somewhere, so perhaps he's acting as producer by remote control . . . Richard Reid, 1936 Lae­tare medalist, delivered a series of lectures in Washington Hall on the Morals of Newspapers . . . His topics: "The Development, Purpose, and In­fluence of Newspapers," "The Ethics of Newspapers," "The Difficulties of Newspapers," "Shortcomings of Newspapers," and the "Remedies." 
• 

NEW LOW 
The Scholastic's "Week" reports the discovery of a freshman boasting the lowest campus average in history, 
11.66percent. . . Major Robert Rior­dan. University registrar, is hard at work on an address which he will de­liver before the newly-found Mili­tary club . , . His topic will be: "Army Five Paragraph Field Order" .. . If the address is anything like the title it apparently will be deliv­ered in code . . . Latest campus fad is the "Beer" jacket, a white coat made from a material not too distant­ly related with that which goes into the creation of a flour sack. 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. "32 
» » » 
Director of Athletic Publicity 




ATHLETICS 
BULLETIN 
Coach Jake Kline's baseball turned in its fifth victoiT in seven starts, 5 to 0, against Chicago when Michael Mitchell Mandjiak, southpaw sopho­more from Kalamazoo, turned in a no-hit, no run performance. Mand­jiak missed a perfect game by the margin of one batsman, Larry Klass of Chicago, having reached first base on a walk. He advanced on a wild pitch, and Mandjiak then struck out the next three batters. He struck out a total of 16. men, and Klass was the only Chicago man who didn't strike out at least once. Captain Borowski led the attack with four hits in four trips, including a home 
' The game brought up for debate the matter of other no-hit, no-run games. The publicitj' oifice records are complete only from 1930 to the present. But Jim Costin, of the South Bend News-Times, supplied the information that Paul Castner hurled a no-hitter against Purdue. Further investigation disclosed that it was a 4 to 0 victor}' at Lafayette in 1922. If any of you recalls any other games of this type at any time in Notre Dame baseball history, we should ap­preciate hearing from you. 
BASEBALL 
Thanks largely to effective pitch­ing, Coach Jake Kline's 1938 baseball team is off to a flying start with four victories in six starts at this writing. Mike Mandjiak, sophomore southpaw from Kalamazoo, turned in a 5-hitter to set down Western State at Kala­mazoo in the opener, 9 to 0. Then Norvall Hunthausen, another sopho­more from St. Louis, Mo., threw a six-hitter against Chicago for a 3 to 2 victory. Ennio Arboit pinch hit for him in the ninth, inserting a double and a run in a two-run rally which won, 3 to 2. Arboit then finished the game, with a double play stopping a Maroon rally. 
Arboit came up with a six-hit per­formance, giving only one walk, to defeat Ohio State, 3 to 1. Chet Sul­livan, Chicago sophomore third base­man, scored a run and drove in an­other with his four hits in as many trips. Andy Puplis and Larry Doyle, veteran shortstop and first baseman, each drove in a run. 
The second game with Ohio State the next day found Mandjiak present with all his stuff except his control. 
Mandjiak got five men out in two innings, all on strikeouts. But mean­while he gave four walks and hit a batter. Hunthausen relieved and immediately Conklin socked a base-clearing double, scoring later on an error. Hunthausen continued, to hold the Bucks to four hits, but the dam­age had been done in the six-run sec­ond inning. Johnny Dagenhard held the Irish to four hits, also, striking out nine men. Sullivan scored in the ninth on an error to avoid a shut-out, 6 to 1. 
Arboit might have been better off in the first Iowa game with some of Mandjiak's wildness. The trouble was that he was putting the ball in there, and the lowans were sending it back to the tune of eight hits and five runs before Sophomore Eex Ellis of Green Forks, Indiana, could be rushed to the rescue. Ellis gave up three more runs before he got the side out. Iowa nicked him for five more runs before it was all over, while the Irish rallied valiantly to score nine runs on five hits before Haub took the mound for Iowa and held Notre Dame to three more harmless singles in the last five innings. 
History repeated itself in the sec­ond game with Iowa. Last year Iowa had won the first game. With the score tied in the last of the ninth, Chuck Borowski on third, two out, and Joe O'Neill at the plate, O'NeUl bunted safely as Borowski broke for home and the Irish won, 3 to 2. It took until the last of the tenth in the second game of 1938 to get one out, 
BASEBAIX COACH JAKE KUN E 
Doing a Grand Job 
Borowski to third base, and Hunthau­sen to the plate. Borowski broke for home, Hunthausen bunted, and the squeeze worked again—for a 2 to 1 victory. Hunthausen turned in a five-hit masterpiece, striking out six and giving only two walks. Errors ac­counted for Iowa's and Notre Dame's first runs. Hohenhorst of Iowa, a sophomore, pitched seven-hit ball, fanning one, and giving no walks. 
The anemic quality of team hitting to date is reflected in the club aver­age of .212. Only Arboit, who plays right field when not hurling, and Larry Doyle, w^ho has played three games at first base, are above the .300 mark. Arboit has connected eight times in 17 trips, scoring 2 runs, and driving in 4 more. Doyle is hitting .357. Bor­owski, center fielder, and Joe Nar­done, left fielder, big guns of the 1937 attack, are hitting (if we may use the terra loosely) .174 and .227, respectively. Sullivan with .227 and Hunthausen with .273 are the only others above the .200 mark. In other words only four regulars, besides Hunthausen, are above .200. 
Once the big Irish bats begin to boom, however, Coach Kline will un­doubtedly establish his Irish as one of the best teams in the middle west. He has pitchere, and defensive strength as reflected in the team fielding aver­age of .943. 
• 
TRACK 
Athletic relationships with Michi­gan were renewed in the first regu­larly scheduled contest between the two schools since the baseball season of 1924 when the track team opened its outdoor season in a quadrangular meet with Indiana, Ohio State, and Michigan at Bloomington. 
Appropriately enough, Michigan and Notre Dame finished one-two. Indiana got the gloiy of setting a new world's collegiate record for the two-mile relay. And Ohio State wound up in fourth place. The scores were: Michigan, 67 2/3; Notre Dame 48; Indiana, 44 2/3; and Ohio State, 37 2/3. 
Beating out Indiana was no minor league feat for the Irish. They gave double points in the relay races, and Indiana won four of the five relay events for 40 points. Notre Dame scored only 20 points in the relays, but, like Michigan, scored in all events to build up its total. 
An idea of the relay competition may be gained when the two-mile 

May, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
race is taken into consideration. In­diana finished 75 or 80 yards ahead of Notre Dame's third place team in 
7:38.1. Notre Dame ran 7:46,-which is 2.6 seconds better than the pre­vious all-time Notre Dame record and an average of 1:56.5 for the four 880-yard legs. All of the five relay marks at Bloomington were better than marks for the same races turned in at the Kansas relays. 
The feature of the day as far as crowd interest and Notre Dame inter­est went was the four-mile relay. Coming down to the anchor leg, Greg Rice had to spot Tommy Deckard some 30 j'ards. Rice ran a 4:19 mile, catching and passing Deckard on the back stretch. But he had burned up too much energy doing this, and Deckard took him on the home stretch, finishing a scant t^vo strides in front. 
The Irish scored hea-ialy in the sprint with Bill Clifford first in 10 flat and Steve Coughlin third; and in the pole vault when John Dean and Harold Langton tied for first with Kingsley of Michigan and Dan Gibbs tied with two others for third. The winning height was only 12 feet 6 inches, with a stiff breeze probably having a lot to do with it. 
Bill Faymonville won the discus throw at 152 feet 5% inches, much better than he had done at this stage last year as a sophomore, and only three feet off his own Notre Dame record. He took second behind Wat­son of Michigan in the shot put with a heave of 48 feet 6 5/8 inches. Wat­son set a stadium record of 50 feet 7 inches. 
After his tie in the vault, Langton came back with a toss of 182 feet in the javelin throw for second place. 
GOLF 
We'll have a hard time refraining from featuring the faculty tourna­ment which will be in progress for the next month, and which has drawn a record entry of nearly 80 swingers who shoot between the low 70's and the high ISO's. 
But the varsity desen-es some at­tention, too for its fine comeback qualities. After losing to Al Watrous' University of Detroit team, 16 to 11, in the opener, the Irish bounced right hack to win, as expected, from Chi­cago, 18% to 8%. Ohio State was supposed to win the next one, but with the deciding points at stake in a see-saw meet, Walter Hagen, Jr., whose father dubs around a bit at the game defeated one "Chick" Evans of Ohio State (no relative of Chica­go's famous amateur), 2 to 1, and the Irish were in, 14% to 12%. The loss of five of last year's six letter-
CONCERNING NEW STUDENTS 
Registrar Robert B. Riordan re­ports, as this is written in early May, that applications for admis­sion to the University next Sep­tember number 41 per cent more' than they did at the same time a year ago. Campus residence facil­ities 'will be exhausted, it is ex­pected, by mid-summer at the latest—and probably before. 
Alumni are urged to act upon this information at once wherever necessary and to circulate it among those relatives and friends who are specifically interested. 

men leaves the path to a 'winning season rocky and long. 
TENNIS 
It's too early to say what Professor Pedro de Landero may have this year. He thought Notre Dame had a chance against Northwestern, but the Wild­cats duplicated last year's 8 to 1 vic­toiy. Bill Fay, Pittsburgh soph, got Notre Dame's point. The outlook looked verj'- dark, but then North­western went to work on Purdue and Marquette, blanking both schools in straight sets and it developed that possibly Notre Dame was playing a great squad the day it met the Wild­cats. 
All doubts will be removed during "tennis week," April 30 to May 7, when the Irish play six matches, five of them at home, over a period of eight days. 
We still stand by our prediction of a winner on the couits, even though tennis week means competition against Western State, Chicago, Ken­tucky, Michigan, Indiana, and De­troit. 
BASKETBALL 
Earl Brown, junior from Benton Harbor, Michigan, first-string guard on the basketball team for the past two seasons, was elected captain of next year's team at the annual ban­quet sponsored by the Villagers in the Columbia Athletic Club, South Bend, on March 22. Four hundred persons were present to honor, espe­cially, the seniors on a team which, over a three-year period, had com­piled one of the finest records in bas­ketball history. 
Twelve speakers, including Coach George Keogan, .presided over by Toastmaster Timothy P. Galvin, of Hammond, Indiana, were unstinting in their praise of the team which 
dropped only three games in the sea­son just completed. 
Election of the 1938-'39 captain was between Bro'wn and Edward Sadowsld, of Westfield, Massachu­setts, both of whom were nominated as candidates for the post. 
The captain-elect was an all-state basketball player at Benton Harbor High school. He plays both football and basketball, ha'ving won a letter playing left end on the Notre Dame football team last fall. He 'will be first-string end on the 1938 team, according to advance estimates. 
Coach Keogan, who has directed Notre Dame's basketball destinies for 15 years, was the first speaker on the program. After thanking various members of Notre Dame's faculty and athletic personnel for their co­operation during the successful sea­son, Keogan praised the members of his squad. 
The veteran coach called Paul No­wak the greatest college center in the country today, and said that Johnny Moir is one of the greatest collegiate players of all time. Keogan paid tribute to Tommy Wukovits by say­ing that he played so smoothly and easily that the fans did not appreci­ate his efforts. 
Douglas Mills, University of Illi­nois coach, and the only coac h present whose team defeated Notre Dame in the late season, told the gathering that Notre Dame displayed fine sportsmanship after going down before the Illini. 
Mills' Illinois teams have been re-­sponsible for 25 per cent of Notre Dame basketball defeats of the last two years. 
Other speakers on the program in­cluded Louis P. Chapleau, president of the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley; Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C, of Notre Dame; Dick Miller and William Fox, Jr., Indianapolis sports writers; Paul Hinkle, director of athletics at Butler University, In­dianapolis; Elmer Layden, University director of athletics; Rev. Wendell P. Corcoran, C.S.C, pastor of St. Jo­seph's church. South Bend; Dr. Fred Bonine, of Niles, Michigan; James Costin, South Bend News -Times sports editor, and Jack Ledden, South Bend Tribune sports editor. 
Toastmaster Galvin was introduced by Paul Howard, president of the Villagers' club. 
Gold basketballs were awarded by Keogan to the nine monogram win­ners, including Moir, Nowak, Meyer, Wukovits, Brown, Crowe, Sadowsld, Jordan and Klier. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus May, 1938 

» « »



ALUMNI CLUBS 
Fifteenth U. N. D. Night Breaks All Kecords 
NBC Also Breaks, But Nothing Stopped World 
Wide Program From Reaching New High on 
Every Front; Attendance and Programs Tops 
Despite vrire difficulties which cut off the University gymnasium pro­gram over NBC after the first five minutes, the 15th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night, through quick action of NBC and Alumni President Cotter at the N.D. Club of Washing­ton meeting, and through the 100 local Radio Stations and the other Local Club meetings, went on to a new high record in the annual world­wide tribute to Notre Dame. 
The NBC progi-am, as ultimately achieved, featured the Band, the Glee Club; Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., president of the University; John McCormack, Laetare Medalist; William E. Cotter, president of the Alumni Association; Frederick Wil­liam Wile, alumnus and Washington writer and radio commentator; and Frederick Van Nuys, senator from Indiana. Only the two last named were not on the original program, which was to have brought the Notre Dame symphony orchesh-a, Elmer Layden, and student pianist Arthur Davidson, from the campus direct, in addition to the above named features. 
The Alumni Association is deeply indebted to the National Broadcast­ing Company, to individual alumni everjnvhere who cooperated to the fullest, to the Local Radio Stations which were listed in the last issue of the ALUMNUS, and to the Local Clubs. The widespread effects of the two last named agencies in particular can best be found in the following ac­counts of meetings and programs under the separate headings of the Clubs. 
The combined story of the Night is a glorious and record-breaking page in the annals of a Notre Dame tradition which each year thus rec­ognizes the development of Notre Dame as the alma mater of an in­creasing alumni body, the beloved institution of an increasing number of friends beyond the alumni, and a vital force in the religious, educa­tional and social patterns of America and the world. 
AKRON 
Hash Colopy. '33. R.F.D. 4. President: John Doran, '33. 69 E. Mill Street, Secretars'. 

On Universal Notre Dame Night the alumni, better than 25 strong, as­sembled at DeLuca's in Akron, and from the period from 7:15 to 7:30 the local broadcasting station, WJW, had a Notre Dame program. Hugh Colopy gave a splendid talk on "The Spirit of Notre Dame." 
Present we had Tom Markey, for­mer president of the Washington, 
D.C. alumni, now connected with the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company, and "Here, There and Everywhere" 
Walter Riley Miller. 
Hugh Colopy was elected presi­dent; Dick Botzum, ^•ice-president; Art Dult, ti-easurer; John Doran, sec­retary; and the Board of Directors to consist of Joe Rebel, Lawrence Hal­ter and Glen Smith. 
We were verj"^ sorry that the pro­gram was interrupted, but came to the conclusion, inasmuch as our meeting was dominated by lawyers, that the enginering school had fallen down on the job. 
We were also fortunate in securing several records of "Rockne's pep talks" for our local gathering. 
On April 3 the alumni had a Rockne memorial Mass at the Mary-knoll Seminary, which is the old homesite of the O'Neil family (I mean Tom O'Neil, one of the Notre Dame alumni). Father Morette, in charge of the seminary, gave a very excellent sermon on "The Spirit that Rockne Exemplified." We had a breakfast afterwards and were threatened with "doughnuts and cof­fee," but it turned out to be about six courses, including the home-made doughnuts. 
Frank Steel. 
ARKANSAS Bnrt L. Hoberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, Ark., Secretary. 
BENGAL 
Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., '02. Dacca, Bcnsal. India, President; Ber. J. J. Hennessey, C.S.C., '02, Dacca, Bengal. India, Secretary. 
BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) Thomas Grimes, '34, 35 South Third Street, Niles, Michigan, President; Sheridan Cook, '32, CK) South Bend Tribune. 119 North Third Street, Nilcs, Michigan, Secretary. 
BUFFALO Carlos H. Frank. '33. 232 Barton Street 
President: Rjilph F. Else, '34, 278 Voorhecs 
Avenue, Secretary. 

The Universal Notre Dame Night gathering was a success due to Presi­dent Carlos Frank and Chairman Bob O'Leary. We had dinner at the King Arthur Restaui-ant. As toastmaster for the occasion we had Mr. Sheedy, two of whose sons, Mike and Paul, have been graduated from Notre Dame, while a third son, Dan, has been ap­pointed manager of the basketball team for next year. 
We had speeches from Chairman O'Leary, Shel Hecker, former coach 

The 1937-1938 Board 
Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C, '88, Notre Dame, ind Honorary President William E. Cotter. "13, New York City President Harry F. Kelly, '17, Detroit, Michigan First Vice-President -Charles A. Mooney, Jr., "26, Cleveland, Ohio Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame Secretary-Treasurer William R. Dooley, "26, Notre Dame Assistant Secretary James E. Deery, '10, Indianapolis, Ind Director to 1938 Don P. O'Keefe, "03, Detroit, Michigan Director to 1939 Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, New Jersey Director to 1940 Francis H. McKeever, '03, Chicago, Illinois Director to 1941 Arthur J. Hughes, 'I I,Chicago, Illinois Director to 1938 (ex-officio) To be elected—Member of 1937 Class Director to 1938 
NOTE TO CLUB SECRETARIES: Please send present addresses of "lost alumni." See names under classes. 
May, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
at Niagara University, Blair French, who was quarterback at Illinois with Red Grange, and Johnny Byrne, our district goveraor of the Association. 
Our speaker of the evening was Joe Bach, one of the seven mules who has coached at SsTacuse and Du­quesne, and who is now head coach at the Niagara University. Joe gave us some new football stories that we had never heard before. 
We then had some sound pictures of Notre Dame football which Chair­man O'Leary managed to inveigle from the local distiibuting agent. 
The Buffalo Club's fifth annual Easter Dance was held April 18 in the Terrace Room of the Hotel Stat­ler. Bob Moore had as his aides the following men on committees: Ar­rangements, Don Jacobi, Bill Measer, Li Smith; Door, Frank Cass, Marty Ryan, Jack Travers; Invitations, Hank Burns, Bill Manard, Bob O'Leary; Music, Bill Cass, Bus Pfeil, Ron Zudick; Patl-ons, Marty Travers, John Byrne, Doc Burns, and Henry Weiss; Publicity, Ralph Else, Gordie Bennett, Bill Torrey; Tickets, Ed O'Connor, George Doyle, Jim Irwin. The usual fine time was had by all. 
FLASH! 
President Carlos Frank has an­nounced July 16 as his wedding day. The bride will be Miss Marjorie John-
The new board of governors of the club consists of Dr. Robert Bums, John Byrne, Frank Cass, George Doyle, James Irwin, William Measer, Robert Moore, Martin Ryan, and 
Martin Travers. The new officers were announced in the previous ALUMNUS. Bob Moore has just been promoted to assistant divisional engi­neer of the Buffalo division of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Com­panj'. 
We wish to thank the campus club and President Jack McKendry for their conti-ibution to the scholarship fund. 
We have welcomed Henry Weiss from Kansas City. Hank is the new manager of the Allis Chalmers sales oflice in Buffalo. 
The write r encountered Lionel Smith of Texas, '33, at the Red Jacket Ski Club. Li was transferred here recently by the Halsey, Stuart & Co. 
We do not believe that mention has been made that Eddy O'Connor is a "pappy." It's a girl, Maureen Ann, boi-n the last of August. 
I had the pleasure of meeting Jim Britt, formerly of South Bend, a few weeks ago. I believe we can almost include Jim as an alumnus. Jim is going over big in Buffalo in his sport broadcasts. Ralph F. Else. 
BOSTON 
Fred C. Solari, '35. Center St.. Pembroke, Mass., President; John J. Hanlcy. '34, 409 Salem St., Medford, Mass., Secretary; Paul McManus. '34, Fox & Hounds Qub, Boston, Mass., Secretary. 
Late, as usual, but still no later than usual, the Boston chapter begs to submit its annual report of deeds done, activities perpetrated, and bull thrown on Universal Night. 
It all began at 7:15, with a broad­cast over WEEI and from that time on until the hour of parting, then was, if I may borrow a phrase, "something doing every minute." The radio sermon, based on material sent out from the Alumni Office, was delivered by Attorney Joe Gargan, '17. As a special tribute to Rockne, he included in the broadcast, a poem addressed to him, that has been in­spired by that memorable Ohio State game of fond memory. Silently ki­bitzing the performance, and lending whatever moral encouragement you can lend in a place where you have to blow cigarette smoke out through your nose so that no extraneous noise will be occasioned by the parting and closing of lips, were His Excellency the president, Fred Solari, '35, Eddie Collins, '13, Paul Broderick, '26, and some other dignitaries, such as Buck Hasley and myself, both '34. 
A few minutes later, another comer of the public ear was caught over WHDH broadcasting the might Pox and Hounds Club dance program. Here the music was inten-upted to remind again the vast (we hope!) un­seen radio audience that "Tonight is Universal Notre Dame Night ... " and that "tonight, all over the world, from Nome to Zanzibar, from Dub­lin to Kimberly, etc. etc." I spent some time on that announcement and may possibly have exaggerated a trifle, but it was a daraed good an­nouncement! The club orchestra then whacked out a medley of Noti'e Dame songs. 
The main event of the evening had been aiTanged by Paul Broderick who is head booker at the Paramount Pic­ture's Boston office, and at 9:00 p.m. loyal alumni began converging on the Paramount offices from all of Bos­ton's better soda fountains and ice cream parlors. Here in a miniature theater, quite as attractively and completely equipped as any theater in town, we held a brief meeting during which a Rockne memorial program, proposed by Joe Gargan, was discussed. A committee was ap­pointed to look into the matter fur­ther, and report at our next meeting in May. This was followed by a moWe progi'am lasting an hour, which included all the shorts relating to Notre Dame in the Paramount li­brary. Gathering these together, and preparing them for exhibition must have involved considerable time and work, and for this the club is in­debted—and grateful—^to Paul Brod­erick. 
At 11:15 the national program from the campus was picked up, and just about this time, this humble vic­tim of capitalism had to screw the cap on his fountain pen and tear back to work, hoping the boss hadn't called in his absence. 
Paul McManus. 

CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-IU.) 
iVmbrosc McGinnis. '24, President: Fred J. Solman, Jr., '28. 5752 Erie Av&, Hammond. Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of the Calu­met District met in observance of Universal Notre Dame Night at the Gary Hotel, Gary, Indiana, with a dinner-meeting and held their annual election of officers. 
Following the election of officers which resulted in the election of Am­brose McGinnis, Crown Point, presi­dent, Edward J. Brennan, Gary, vice-president, and re-election of Hugh Carroll, East Chicago, treasurer, and Fred Solman, Hammond, secretary, some very fine talks were given by Coach George Keogan, Father E. J. Mongovan, who was again chosen chaplain, and Frank O'Rourke, of. Hammond. 
Coach Keogan gave a resume of the past basketball season and intro­duced John Moir of his 1938 squad who had accredited himself so well on it. To those who have not had the opportunity of visiting Notre Dame in recent years Mr. Keogan's account of what has transpired in building a greater campus, school and athletic teams it was very interesting, as well as to those who have been back in late years. 
A Notre Dame Club golf outing was announced for June 18 at the Crown Point Country Club, Crown Point, Indiana. Those who attended last year were treated to one of the best outings the club has had the op­portunity of enjoying, and this com­ing golf meet promises to be better than the last. 
The retiring President Frank Gal­vin and John Wallace assisted George Keogan in the presentation of a Notre Dame program over the local radio station, WIND, Gary, at 11 P.M. 
Fred Solman. 

CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) 
Edward J. Eckert. '33. 5 Lawnridge Ave.. Albany, President: H. V. Canavan, '28. 254 Patridse St., Albany, Secretary. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hermes. '16, 1910 Oakland St. Lansinir, President; J. Harvey Gauthier, '30, Bark River, Mich., Secretary. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY 
Anthony V. Ceres, '28, Perth Amboy Nat'l. Bank Bld;r., Perth Amboy, President; John Lisicki, '31, 215 Water Street, Perth Amboy. Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus May. 1938 
Bill Bruno, '37, generously and enthusiastically cooperated in work­ing out and putting over a Universal Notre Dame Night on WCAP, As-bury Park. Participating in the pro­gram, besides Bill, were John Carroll, an actor, Jlrs. Harvey Sykes, a sing­er, and her son, Harvey, Jr. A Notre Dame skit, a history of Notre Dame and an outline of Notre Dame ath­letics were among the features pre­sented in the SO-minutes allotted by the station. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Harry Nester. '20. 8 E. Broad Street. Co­lumbus. President: John S. Loder. ex. *25. Union Clothing Co.. Columbus. Secretary. 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA 
William J. McAlecr. '31. l.ilS 19th Avenue. 
Altoona. Pa., President: Edward F. I.ec. 
'31. 210 13th Street. Altoona. Pa.. Secre­
tary. 
CHICAGO 
Francis T. McCurrie. '27. S219 S. San;amin 
St. President: Ednin Leo Ryan. '27. Ill 
W. Washincton Blvd.. Secretary. 
The first activity of the fiscal year under new officers was a St. Patrick's day luncheon held at the Jforrison Hotel. Speakers for the occasion were: Jack Flynn, of the Chicago Daily Tribune, who was bom and edu­cated in Ireland and came to us rich with Ireland's lore and gifted ^t h a power to please by droll and scintil­lating wit; Homer J. Buckley, well-known Chicagoan and president of the local Irish Fellowship Club, told of the purposes of his organization and the glories of the Irish race. Guests who added a few words were D. F. Kelly, K.S.G., and two members of the clan O'Connell, both judges, Hon. Robert C. of the Superior Court and our own Hon. John F., '13, of the Probate Court and present honorary president of the Club. St. Patrick drove many of the lads out of hiber­nation to furnish a fine attendance. 
Our annual Sunday Communion was held April 3 at St. Marj''s Church followed by breakfast at the Audi­torium Hotel. Father John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., attended (I wonder if many of the fellows got ostrich cards?) Mass and breakfast. Since Father O'Hara accepted our in\itation only on the understanding that he wouldn't have to give a talk we were thankful for his few words but his presence was inspiration enough. Father Har­ney, provincial of the Paulist Fathers, gave a fine sermon- and a very thought-provoking address following breakfast. I wish I could list the names of those attending but 80-odd names would seem to be an attempt of monopolizing too much space. However, Joe O'Donnell with the true instincts of his business, picked the place with the biggest and best grape­fruit. 
Tom McCabe, '22, chairman of the weekly luncheon committee, an­nounces that after May 3 the lunch­eons will be held everj- Tuesday noon in Eitel's restaurant in the Field Building. An excellent luncheon in a private, air-conditioned, dining room should perk up attendance as the warm weather draws near. Tom's choice of location and surroundings was excellent. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated with a dinner at the Knick­erbocker Hotel. Over 600 attended. Barry O'Keefe, '32, chairman of the affair, and his committeemen are to be congratulated for the splendid turn-out and program for the even­ing. Warren Brown did a fine job as toastmaster with his wit and humor and helped make the night memora­ble. Lou Fonseca, American League ofiicial, in a fine talk, added to our knowledge and understanding of WaiTen Brown by telling a few stor­ies of their earlier days together in sandlot ball. Jimmy Dykes, manager of the White Sox, gave a resume of the Sox's prospects for the season; evei-j'one present wanted to go out and find a shortstop for him. 
Tim Galvin, in the baseball spirit, discussed all time Notre Dame nines and the merits of some of the ball players at Notre Dame in his time. Tim brought back many pleasant memories of cold fall days when his words filled us, as students, with en­thusiasm and school spirit—-we were all glad to see and hear Tim Galvin again, and to live birefly in the past with him. Wilbert Crowley, first as­sistant attorney, gave us the (may I say) outsider's \'iewpoint on Notre Dame and its influences on its men, I guess he made everj'one's chest ex­pand a bit with his fine talk. The club welcomed back two well-known entertainers who sang a few songs as only they could — Tony Kopedcy and Irv Corcoran. 
I'm supposed to have a few scribes on the south side and also the west side, but they sEem to be as bad as I am at leaving things go to the last minute — no, they're worse; they didn't even do an\-thing at the last minute. Fran Oelerich added a bit of news and here it is. Take it away, Oelerich! 
Ed Ryan. 
This is Oelerich, folks: Ran into Bill Burghart, '31, one day recently. Bill has remained single in spite of his "Robert Taylor-like" features, and is connected with the Chicago office of Consolidated Broadcasting. Bill must be a radio jack-of-all-duties, because his work includes those of announcer, technician, and advertis­ing salesman for Consolidated. 
Bill's brother. Bob, '32, earns his liring traveling about the country supervising heavj' construction. He recently took a vacation in Florida— his first in four years. Net! Kelley, '32, Wilmette's gift to golf, has been in Florida for the past six months, and is expected back in these parts shortly. 
Fred Snite, '33, who calls himself The Boiler Kid, -nTites that he was recently entertained at his Miami Beach home by several dusky boys who put on a Battle Royal in the Snite yard. Fred took in the show through his mirror attached to the iron lung. Fred is leaving June 1 on the return jaunt, and will be at home in River Forest all summer. 
I see several of the boys, including big Red O'Connell, Kelly Powers, and Milton "Ham" Fox at St. Marga­ret Mai'j^'s Church every Sunday, but I seldom get a chance to talk to them as I am always busy saying the sta­tions after Mass. 
CINCINNATI John H. Heilkcr, "30, 3444 Stettinnis Ave., President: Raymond .1. Pollman, ex. '34, 1860 Dcnham St.. Secretary-. 
Some of the football films, handled through Frank Sweeney, were in Cin­cinnati for the club's Universal Night partj'. The boys had planned to have a large session in Frank's Kemper Lane Hotel and to sponsor a program over the local WLW. 
Items as sent by Ray Pellman, the new club secretary, working with Jack Heilker, the new president: the club entertained on January 21 in the Kemper Lane for Elmer Layden. Chet Wynne was another honored guest. Two hundred were present. 
Hunk Anderson was officially re­ceived as assistant coach at the Uni­versity of Cincinnati when the alum­ni of that school and of Notre Dame joined for a luncheon in the Hotel Sinton in March. 
CLEVELAND 
Georee Kerver, '20. 1331 Granger. Lalvcwood. 
Ohio, President; Cornelius J. RuHinsr. '32. 
308 Euclid Bids., Secretary. 
STILL SAVORY SALT We were among the many who met Monday the 25th commemorating Universal Notre Dame Night. At University Club we dined in high fashion, delighte d in fraternity, drained rich pleasure from a well-filled evening. Principal speaker at the banquet, Professor Dan O'Grady, droll savant, made no impassioned plea for wingbacks and linemen, but instead, he talked shop, giving a most entertaining and informative histori­cal resume of "the philosophy that is taught at Notre Dame." If we weren't flattered by the very subject, we were happily amazed to recall a once exam-crammed familiarity with it. Give us more of that sort of talk; send US more of that kind of speaker; but first send O'Grady back here again. Chuck Mooney was chairman of the Night. 
At this good gathering were faces seen infrequently during the past year and names new to this letter. 

May, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 187 
There and new to Cleveland were: Frank Doan, '29, who, from his home town, Lima, has traveled far in sev­eral states with Collier's Magazine"; Frank Savage and Jim CoUeran, both new residents here from Youngstown; Fred Zietlow, also the traveler, has offices in the Union Trust Building with Indianapolis his home town abandoned. 
There too were: George Hahn, John Colangelo, Marty Brennan, Bart Mclntyre, Jim Driscoll, Bob Morris­sey, Dick Prezebel, Gene Kane, John Beljon, Al Sommer, Jack McGrath; and what a mistake to have attempted to name the many! Stan Cofall brought his two boys for their first stag party; George and Clayt Leroux were the other father-and-son contenders. Law men, Marty Rini, John Gleason, and Don Miller bearded political-wise Dan Duffy with unknown results. Ruppel brothers, Harold and John, were on hand; John has Chicago's Marshall Field's for a business ad­dress. Chuck Rohr, whose rest trip to Atlantic City helped a lot, ate heartily; incidentally Chuck moved into his new home the winter past. John and Joe Butler were the fam­ily representatives. With this crowd and many more, you won't wonder over our success report on Notre Dame Night. (Note to senator Van Nuys: Our's was a stag party.) 
NO STAG PARTY was the annual Easter Dance at Guild Hall. While there seems to be an apparent antip­athy among N.D. men toward dances, judging from attendance of late, those of us who grabbed a willing arm and dashed off to the dance Easter Monday were well rewarded. Bill Van Rooy served up as nice an evening of partying as ever lured hall room boys to the Palais Eoyale. It was a gay affair! 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL There was an excellent turnout, rewarding committeeman Joe But­ler's splendid work, at the annual Rockne Memorial Mass and Break­fast. After Mass, of which Father Moriarity was celebrant, the group met at University Club for breakfast, speeches, movies and a very pleasant­ly filled morning. Ray Eicfaenlaub was the principal speaker, recalling Rack's first days at school and bring­ing out the contrast between today's streamlined institution and the strug­gling college of 25 years back. Mo­vies of Rock in action in his last coaching year were an especial treat. 
RETREAT! The success, growing annually, with which the three-day spiritual re­treats to St. Stanislaus Novitiate have been held, argues strenuously for even broader plans in the future. This year Tom Byrne and his com­mittee arranged for two successive week-ends early in Lent. Long be­fore the appointed opening days, res­
ervations for capacity attendance coming; Jimmy Bonrke still hawks were on file. Next year should war­for White Motors; alas, Jim Uprich­rant plant for three or four groups; ard's wed; wonder when Larry Krai this year's record of over 100 men in will bring around the file and staff. attendance with a score turned away Election of officers means the pass­justifies a solemn acceptance of the ing of the old, and George Kerrer, worthwhileness of keeping alive local Jack Collins, Dutch O'Day and this alumni activities of every sort. wordy guy will surrender the keys. STUFF For my part this job has been 
pleasant even with its monthly task 
Young Joe Strauss ^vith GMAC of spilling words on an unsuspecting called lately to say he'll pitch in on sheet. Here's the much-chewed qnill. 

any job to be dished out for the sum­Successor! 
mer party coming up; Karl Marter­Nick Ruffing. 
steck proffered a much refurbished membership list after a winter-long 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY lot of labor; Ed Caldwell and George William A. Hurley. "28. 70 Montrose St.. Kozac have their team in shape to Springfield, Mass.. President: Francis T. 
Aheam. *2.7, c.o Hartford I'tmra, i.:i.tfo;il. repeat its championship job this fall Conn., Secretary. 



^ t-? t--^^^ 
Kf ^ V,-^ 
CLEVELAND CLXJB RETREATS. 1938 
Top picture, first Retreat startinir March 4. Left to riaht are: Top roKf—Messrs. J. B. Moore. Schwind, Hnmmett, Shomadn. Piatt, Mctsch. Galdnfr. Dugan, G, Moore; Stk row—Messrs. Booth, Raddatz. Brady. Wolf. W. Dnre. Schwarber, F. Carey. McDonoush, Krock; ith row—Messrs. Delaney. Rogers. W. Rufh'nff, Towell. Gallagher. F. Cull. Martersteck, Ptak. Shone; Srd row— Messrs. McKeever. T. C. Byrne. C. Miller. C. Paskert, Ball. D. Reidy, C. Ruffing, Murphy; Snd row—Messrs. E. Lenihiui. Jonke, G. Leroux. Klucher, J. Duhbs. Jr.. Kirchner, Duffy, Cuslck. Cannon. Uprichard. Francis. Fr. Smith. S«T.: Front row—Messrs. BcKley. Sheehan. Kelly, C Leroux. Father LeMay. S..I.. Father Flynn. S.J.. J. Dnbbs, Sr., Dr. McCarty, J. McNamara:. 
<Mr. Hnusser and T. Lenihan also made the retreat) 
Bottom picture, second Retreat starting March 11. Left to right are: Top row—Messrs. J. L. Sullivan. C. Greene. UnKcrs, Kramer, Foley, Morrisscy, Mahony, J. C. Sullivan. Polk. Marquard; Jith roio—Messrs. Lawton. Toner. R. Greene, Wrasman, C. Carey, Masterson. J. P. Butler. O'Brien, 
W. Kerver, Weisend. CorriRan; 3rd row—Messrs. Lechowicz. McDermott. W. SoIIivazt. Glesson, Dahman. Trocchio. Callahan. Brooks. Hickey. W. Mooney, Richards: Snd roio—Messrs. McAllister, Smith, Normile. T. McNamara, Lochner, W. Ryan. Prendergast, Engeman, Burke. Beger, Klhn­chak. Father Smith. S.J.: Front roip—Messrs. Feighan. C Mooney. J. J. Dore, Scnnmer. P. J. Butler, sr.. Father Keefe. S.J., T. F- Byrne. G. Kerver, Collins. F. J. Butler, jr., Hahn, R. Brennan. 
188 The Notre Dame Alumnus May. 1938 
The Connecticut Valley Club held a dinner at the Hotel Worthy, Spring­field, Massachusetts, for Universal Notre Dame Night. There were speakers. The excellent attendance was due to a historic, last-minute ap­peal of President Wniiam A. Hurley in special delivery letters to many of the members. Following the dinner, the entire gang went to the home of Judge William J. (Peaehes) Granfield to listen to the national broadcast. 
Several alumni of HuUie & Mike's tried to recapture the lost touch in the Granfield billiard room. Dinny Shay, now assistant to Adam Walsh at Bowdoin, made several spectacular attempts. 
Previous to the dinner Thomas J. Curry, '14, deputy insurance com­missioner of Connecticut, was inter­viewed over WTHT, Hartford, while Judge Granfield went on the air in Springfield with the lO-minute his­tory of Notre Dame. Both were well received and both were given appro­priate local angles. 
Francis T. Ahearn, 
DALLAS James P. Swift, '24. 1202 Southwestern Life Bide., Dallas. President: Francis A. McCul­louEh, '30. 917 First National Bank Bids-Dallas, Secretary. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., vice-president of Notre Dame and former president of St. Edward's, renewed many old friendships when he and Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics, visited Dallas March 26-30 in the interests of the Rockne Me­morial. A meeting of alumni and many personal contacts brought back praise of the enthusiasm and aid of Jim Swift, Arthur Simpson, Irving and John Fleming, B. F. McCIain, Harold Delaney and Pat Buell. The Memorial ambassadors also deeply appreciated the hospitality of Pat Miller, a friend of Rock's, former assistant to Stan Cofall, now assist­ant executive manager of the Adol­phus Hotel in Dallas. 
DAYTON Eueene Mayl, '24, 400 Irvine Ave., Presi­dent ; William Cronin, '29, 418 Crafton Ave., Secretary. 

We staged a dinner party on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night at the Van Cleve Hotel, Da}i;on. We held it in the Gold Eoom, and had about 40 members and their guests in attend­ance. We had as our guest speaker Joe Boland from Notre Dame whom everybody enjoyed to the utmost. He brought along pictures of the 1937 N.D.-So.Cal. game and they were very enjoyable. 
In addition we had a radio pro­gram that ran from 9:30 to 10:00 
P.M. over the local radio station WHIG. We had part of the program from the station itself and then brought the studio engineer down to the hotel and had Si Burick, the local sports commentator, interview Joe Boland over the air. Also Gaylord Haas gave a review of the highlights of Notre Dame Night. Everything went off with a bang. 
Members in attendance were: Gene May!, Ed. Shea, Farrell Johnson, Pete Kuntz, Elmer Focke, Jim Collins, Chet Brumleve, Walter Bauman, Bud Buehl, Andy Aman, Joe Murphy, Harry Baujan, Foster Hahn, Judge Ferneding, Jack Hamilton, Mr. Struck and Mr. Strain. 
W. F. Cronin, DENVER Robert A. Dick. '29. 930 Marion Street, Telephone Bid?., President: Earry Lawrence. '29, 1932 Broadway, Secretary. Highlighted by a dinner and, later, a dance, the observance of Universal Notre Dame Night in Denver was a magnificent success, according to word from Harry Lawrence, secre­tary of the dub, and Eddie Mansfield, both members of the committee in charge of the day's activities. Other members of the committee were Bob 
Dick, president; James Hanlon, John Humphreys, and Louis Hough. 
Eddie Mansfield did a tremendous­ly energetic and successful job on the publicity and the radio features, Harry said. There were three local radio programs on April 25. Fred Gushurst, teammate of Rock, was featured on KFEL in an interview. Bob Dick and Harry also participated. On KOA, Charlie Haskell, together with the general club committee for the day, were headlined. Louis Hough did the honors on KLS. Bill Welsh, KPEL announcer, also chose that day to give a large blow in his regular program to Danny Gibbs, star mem­ber of the present track team, a res­ident of Holyoke, Colorado. Two of the stations worked in advance an­nouncements on plans for the day. 
Twenty-six members of the club and their guests attended a dinner at the Broadmoor Country Club and listened there to the national broad­cast. They were joined in the same place by a large group who came in for a long evening of dancing. The club was elaborately decorated in a Notre Dame theme. 

Present for the dinner were: Bob Dick, Jack Sheehan, Charlie Haskell, AI Douds, John McEniry, Matt Mc-Eniry, John Humphreys, Louis Hough, Dr. Rene Rodriquez, Jim Hanlon, Bart O'Hara, Jerry Connors, Harry Lawrence, Leon Archer, Gene Di luUo, Bert Johnson, George Myers, AI Frantz, Russ Sabo, Ray Smith, Floyd Grazier, AI O'Meara, John Mc­Carty, Fred Gushurst, Gene Blish and Frank Conway. 
In recognition of his outstanding leadership and accomplishments the past year. Bob Dick was re-elected president of the club some time ago. Harry Lawrence was re-elected sec­retary, and Bart O'Hara was chosen to be correspondent for the ALUMNUS. 
DETROIT Lincoln Wurzer, '35, 758 Atkinson, Presi­dent; Arthur D. Cronin, '37, 19160 Wood­ston Boad. Secretary. Father Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., was the campus guest of the club and one of the principal speakers at its Universal Night dinner. The dog­sleds will doubtless bring in the de­tails later. 
DES MOINES John T. Stark. '17. 1048 35th Street. Presi­dent; Richard Hyde, "35, 678 2Gth Street. Secretary. We have postponed our observance of Notre Dame Night until Saturday next, April 30. Following the Drake Relays we will be hosts to Coach Nicholson and the track team. We are having a dinner at the Hotel Des Moines. 
We had a gathering of the clans Monday, April 18, for the election of new officers. John Stark, '17, was named president, Harry O'Boyle, '28, ­vice-president, and your correspond­ent will continue to hold down the secretary's chair. 
Harold Klein, our official new member greeter advises that Len Lally, formerly of Denison, Iowa, is now located here. He is with United Motors Service. We also have a new barrister in Paul Kempter. 
Harry O'Boyle is stationed in Des 

.Moines again. For the past six months he has been in Eau Claire, Wisconsin. He is with General Mo­tors. To those who did not see Harry's picture in a recent issue of Business Week I would like to report that the "Iowa Express" is getting no thinner. 
Dick Hyde. 
DUBUQUE 
C. L Krajewski. '16, 321 Bank & Insurance BIdB., President; Henry I. Trenkle, '24, 180 
S. Booth St., Secretary. 
EASTERN INDIANA Thomas A. Cannon. '33, 401 Wysor Bids., Muncie, Ind., President; Alvis E. Graneer, ex. '31. 617 S. Jefferson St., Hartford City, Ind., Secretary. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA Leo R. Mclntyre. '28, Bethlehem, President; Ernest L. Wilhelm, '27, New Jersey Zinc Co., Research Dept., Palmerton, Secretary. 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA Charles J. Wittman. '31, 621 Scheniey Dr., President; William K. Bayer, '36, 724 W. 10th St., Secretary. 

FLINT (Michigan) Stephen J. Roth, '31, 723 Union Industrial Bids., President: Donald F. MacDonald, '31. 1631 W. Court St., Secretary. 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA Edward S. Sullivan, '24, 125 B. Suttenfield St.. President; Maurice J. DeWald, '33, 2415 Huburtus, St., Secretary. 
Father Charles Miltner, C.S.C. and Professor Louis Hasley tied up with the latter's brother, Henry, and the club in staging a joint Knights of Co-lumbus-U.N.D. Night affair in Fort Wayne. Father Miltner addressed the Notre Dame men and a group who had received a K. of C. degree. 
May, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 189 
GOGEBIC RANGE Francis J. Vukovich, '35, Ridge St., Iron­-wood, Mich., President; Jolin G. Snllivan, '22, 10 Newport Heistits, Ironwood, Hich., Secretarr. 
A very enjoyable program was given over our local radio station, WJMS, here in Ironwood on Univer­sal Notre Dame Night from 7 to 8:30. The program was in charge of Victor Lemmer, who substituted for Frank Vukovich. Frank had planned on be­ing here, but was called to Chicago on business rather unexpectedly. The history of Notre Dame was reviewed by Miss Katherine Pendleton, alumna of St. Mary's, Notre Dame, and present instructor in the Ironwood Junior College. We are very grate­ful to her for her efforts. Joe Raineri and John Wollack also participated in the program, and there was appro­priate recorded music. 
On March 21, a meeting was held to discuss plans for our U.N.D. night. It was attended by all members of the Gogebic Range and the custom of having a Mass said for Rockne was continued. At the meeting it was disclosed that tentative plans were being made by Scrapiron Young and Ed Beinor to visit in or near Iron­wood during the Easter holidays. We were quite disappointed when we found they could not come. 
Edward Doyle and Edward Simon­ich both spent their Easter vacation at their homes here. 
Two items of Notre Dame interest appeared in the sports column of our local newspaper a short time ago. The first was an announcement to the effect that John Wollack, Notre Dame monogram man and member of the coaching staff of the Ironwood high school, had taken over additional du­ties as high school track coach. The secon d was the achievement of George Nolan of Ironwood, in mak­ing the University golf team. 
Eugene Zinn, who was forced to leave school in 1935, due to ill health, continues to improve. He has been in a sanitarium at Saranac Lake, New York, and I am sure he would appreciate hearing from his friends and classmates. He has been there since September, 1935. 
Rudie Simonich, brother of Ed now a football star at Notre Dame, will enter the University this fall. Eudie is a high school athlete of wide note in these parts. 
John C. Sullivan. 

GRAND RAPIDS 
Earl Leach, '29. 641 E. Leonard St., Presi­
dent ; A. John Alt, ex. '34, 628 Turner Ave., 
Secretary. 
I am very pleased to report that the club is active once more, and we are very optimistic over prospects for a lasting club. 
The club met in the Swiss Room of the Pantlind Hotel for Universal Notre Dame Night and there were about 44 members and guests in at­tendance. Raymond Bonini acted as toastmaster. Among those present were Hon. Joseph Sanford, circuit judge of Muskegon County, who acted as the main speaker, John Fredericks, Thomas Roach and Joseph Zwers, all former monogram men. Arrangements were in charge of Earl 

E. Leach, president, Joseph E. Deeb, Edward £. Brennan, Jr., John W. 
Withey and A. John Alt. A 15-min­ute broadcast, over WOOD followed the national broadcast, which was earned by our local station. 
One of our members George A. Jackoboice is recovering from a seri­ous illness. He will probably be con­fined to his bed for the next six or eight weeks. At the present time he is in St. Mary's Hospital. 
A. John Alt. 

GREATER LOUISVILLE 
Robert Burke. '36. 2114 Douslass Blvd., Louisville, President: Paul Marterstcck, '34, 2303 Bunvell. Louisville, Secretary. 

The gang had a great get-together on last night. There were some 75 in attendance which was the best crowd this year. We celebrated the evening by showing the Notre Dame-Minnesota game which was enjoyed by all—even Comie Pfeiffer who did the operating. We followed this by listening to the program on the radio. This was carried by W-4.VE in Louis­ville. 
We held the election of officers after the festivities and the following are those who will do their best for Notre Dame this coming year: Robert Wulf, president; Henry Asman, first vice - president; Pierre Angermeier, second vice-president; Thomas Bul­litt, treasurer; Paul Martersteck, sec­retary. R. J. Naber. 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
Norbort Christm.in. '32, 1113 Lawe St., 
President: A. E. Biebel, '31, 112 S. Wash­
ington St., Secretary*. 

HAMILTON, OHIO 
M. O. Bums, 'S6. 333 S. Second St., Presi­dent: Marc A, Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rentschler Bid?., Secretary. 
HARRISBURG 
Joseph Farrell, '15, 32 North 27th Street 
Camp Hill, Pa., President: Robert M. John­
ston, '33, City Chemist, Harrisburff, Pa., 
Secretary. 
With Most Rev. George L. Leech, D.D., bishop of Hairisburg, and Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, vice-president of Notre Dame in attendance, the club sponsored on Universal Notre Dame Night in the Hotel Hershey, Hershey, Pennsylvania, the first annual dinner of the Catholic college alumni of cen­ti-al Pennsylvania. Rev. Bernard M. -A.lbers, O.S.A., vice-president of Vil­lanoca College, was the third princi­pal speaker. 
Presiding was Joe Karrell, presi­dent of the Notre Dame club. Joe Rafter was the toastmaster. 
The following colleges and univer­sities participated in the dinner: Mount St. Mary's, St, Joseph's, La Salle, Villanova, Holy Cross, Dn­quesne, St. Vincent's, Georgetown, Catholic University, St. Bonaven­ture's, Notre Dame, Scranton, St. Francis, Fordham, St. John's, St. Louis, Manhattan, Boston College, and Detroit. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mick-Wis.) 
Joseph A. Lauerman, '31, 1975 Riverside 
Ave., Marinette, Wis., President: Francis C. 
Boyce, el. '32. 1401 First Ave., S., Esca­
naba, Mich., Secretary. 

Unofficially, word comes of a fine celebration at Marinette. There some football movies were supplemented by the presence of Vic Wojcihovtki, late footballer, who was part of a delegation from the Upper Peninsula which swelled the crowd from the im­mediate environs. 
HOUSTON 
Charles S. Atchison, ex. '30, 418 W. Ala­bama Street, President: Raymond B. Keat­inff, '35, 1805 Sterling BIdff., Secretary. 

On the annual Notre Dame Night 14 members of the Notre Dame Club of Houston met at the Texas State Hotel for the annual meeting of the club. We listened to the program carried over NBC and then elected officers for the coming year before adjourning. 
The following members attended: 

M. E. Walter, Nat Powers, R. C. Scoggins, Robert Waldron, George W. Burkitt, George McHale, John Rhein, Thoma s Green, Tom Needham, Charles S. Atchison, Thomas Stan­dish, Ray Keating, R. D. French, and Mitch Saleh. 
The newly elected officers are: Charles. S. -4tchison, president; J. N. Powers, vice-president; Ray Keating, secretary-treasurer. 
The officers would appreciate it if all N. D. men, who did not attend the meeting, and who are living in or around Houston, would Idndly send their address to the secretary so that an intelligent mailing list may be compiled, 
Ray Keating. 

Father Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C, Notre Dame's vice-president, and J. Arthur Haley, treasurer of the Rock­ne Memorial, visited Houston from March 31 to April 5 in the interest of the Memorial. 
-A.n alumni meeting and many pleasant contacts with Charley Atch­ison, George Burkitt, Nat Powers, Tommy Green, Conroy Scoggins, M. Emmet Walter and Ray Keating, not only made the trip enjoyable but ad­vanced the cause materially. Father O'Donnell and Mr. Haley have been most enthusiastic in praise of Hous­ton, its N.D. alumni, and the grow­ing circle of Notre Dame's friends there. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus May, 1938 
INDIANAPOLIS Arthur C. Shea, '22, 256 N. Meridian. 
President: Francis J. Noll, '31. 1655 N. 

Alabama St.. Secretary. I'm at the Universal Night Party, which is well under way. We have a group of 47 gathered here for din­ner and the usual refreshments and we have equipped ourselves with a radio to enjoy the national broadcast from school. 
Our scholarship fund of ?600 was discussed. We have built this up over a two-year period by having a football activity each fall. It has been decided that we should try to increase the interest in the activity and, ultimately, build up a larger principle. Frank McCarthy made the motion, and it was seconded by Wil­liam Konop, that discussion be de­ferred for an indefinite period. 
William Krieg closed a very suc­cessful year as president and was succeeded in office by Arthur C. Shea. Joe Argus is still vice-presi­dent and incidentally, Joe is having a tough fight back to health. Henry Noli* is the new secretary and I'm taking over the books and bank bal­ance from Bemie Loefiler. 
I spoke over the local station as the Notre Dame representative and I haven't heard how bad it really was. 
We're looking forward to a big year. Mike Layden. 
JACKSON, MICHIGAN Walter Duccy. '17, 339 W. Morrell St.. Pres­
ident; Edward T. O'Neil. •26. Wildwood 
Apts., Secretary. 

JOLIET, ILLINOIS Thomas P. Fecly, '32, 616 Badl Ave.. Presi­
dent; Lawrence J. Dunda, ex. '33, 354 N. 

Kaynor Ave., Secretary. Of course, the big event and the big news in April to report (and where wasn't it so?) was Universal Notre Dame Night. About 35 mem­bers and friends met in our club­rooms and enjoyed an eventful eve­ning. Brother Lawrence Joseph, a Notre Dame man well-known in Jo­liet and vicinity due to his former capacities as director of De La Salle High School and past president of the club, was guest of honor of the evening. He is now located at St. Patrick's High School, Chicago. We certainly enjoyed seeing him again, and hope that, since he is almost a neighbor of ours, he will pay us an­other visit soon. We all talked old times over with him. 
Ed King was chairman of the "U.N.D. Night" committee, and Don Wise. 'S3, Joe Silk, and Francis Dunn, '37, aHy assisted him. The radio program from 7:10 to 7:30 over WCLS, Joliet, on which Ed "Graham McNamee" King was the "What Notre Dame really is and what Notre Dame and 'U.N.D. Night' mean to its alumni," interspersed with appropriate Notre Dame music, was well presented and a feature of the evening. The network program later was listened to with much inter­est. Eats, refreshments and other entertainment "went over" fine. A fine billiard table, recently acquired by the club, was officially put into 
use. 
1 wish to correst an error made in the March-April club news report to the ALUMNUS, in which it was stated that William J. Bossingham, '25, "had local Democi-atic support in the pri­maries for state representative in the Illinois genei-al assembly from the eleventh congressional district." It should have been that Bill was can­didate for congressman. As he was unopposed in the March primaries he will be the Democratic candidate in the November election. 
Don Wise, secretary of the class of '33, is looking forward with anxiety to the five-year reunion of his class to be held at Notre Dame June 3, 4, and 5. 
Plans for spring and summer activ­ities of the club will be discussed at the May meeting. 
Larry Dunda. 

KANSAS Albert J. Gcbcrt, '30, U. of Wichita. Wich­
ita. Kansas, President; Dan Welchons, '30, 
623 Elm St., Ottawa, Kansas. Secretary. 

KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) John J. O'Connor, '34, 4133 Mercier St., 
Kansas Qty, Mo., President; Nonnan M. 
Bowes, '33. 5525 Rockhill Road. Kansas City, 
Mo., Secretary. 

The Kansas City Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night at the Boulevard Manor. The feature at­traction of the evening was the show­ing of the Notre Dame-Army game pictures. Two Kansas City radio sta­tions, KCKN and WHB, were good 
CT^'<'H'V.'^ * ^ J.;-,Vji;^' 

to give us 15-minute programs in which the University was featured through interviews with Bob Tyler and Charley Meyer. 
Among the 45 alumni and guests present were, Fred Mancuso, Joe Stewart, Dan Foley, Jim Bray, John Dugan, Joe O'Bryan, Leo McTiernan, Frank Tyler, John O'Connor, Norman Bowes, George McCliney, James and Tom Higgens, Dr. D. M. Nigro, Maur­ice Carroll, Robert Pendergast, Jim Murray, £d Seiter, Glen Findlay, Henry Massman, George Rinehardt, Frank luen, John Schmitz, Bernard Quirk, and Bill McCarthy. 
New officers of the club were elected: John J. O'Connor, '34, pres­ident; Norman M. Bowes, '35, secre­tary; and Robert Pendergast, treas­urer. The retiring officers take this opportunity to congratulate them and wish them success. 
Bob Tyler and Charley Meyer. 

LA PORTE, INDIANA Norman E. Dulte. '34, 304 Niles St.. Presi­
dent; Robert £. Quinn, ex. '36, 1401 Monroe 

St., Secretary. Professor Francis McMahon had dinner with a group of boys on Uni­versay Night in La Porte. Norm Duke made the arrangements for the club. 
LOS ANGELES Douglas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Presi­
dent; Thomas Ashe. '31. 7110 Middleton St., 
Huntington Park, Cali£., Secretary. 

The Los Angeles meeting on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night was by far the largest dinner gathering ever held by the local club. More than 80 were served at Eaton's Chicken House on Wilshire Boulevard, and others who strolled in later brought the attend­ance very close to 100. Frank Barry was chairman of the committee in charge of the affair, and he was as­sisted by Carroll O'Meara and my­self. 
Toastmaster for the evening was 

interviewer and Joe "Don Wilson" With this happy-looking group in attendance the annual Retreat of the Silk, the interviewee, their subject, Los Angeles Club was held at Sierra Madre on March 18-20. 
Pat O'Brien who served in a similar capacity at Notre Dame one year ago. Pat handled the banquet helm with the same ease and dexterity as Sub­marine D-1, and he kept the program moving at a smooth clip all evening. 
Among the speakers were: Terence 

B. Coigrove, prominent Los Angeles lawyer and Notre Dame alumnus; Francis Wallace, N.D. grad and %vriter who had just completed some work for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer; Don Wilson, favorite radio announcer of the Jello program; Frank Barry, dis­tinguished as a Notre Dame alumnus, Los Angeles la^vyer and Knight of Columbus; Joseph Scott, Laetare med­alist. Tyrone Power, popular MGM actor, spoke briefly, as did Alan Dwan, N.D. man and movie producer. Congressman Joh n Costello, and Aaron "Eosie" Rosenberg, former star of Southern Cal, and at present a director for Pox Studios. 
Tom Lieb, Loyola football coach, added an eloquent touch to the eve­ning, and did so without mentioning his football prospects for the coming season — an accomplishment for any coach. The meeting ended after an 11-second period of silence, sug­gested by Toastmaster O'Brien in honor of the late and beloved Knule 
Rockne. 
Our annual Kockne Memorial Mass was celebrated Sunday, April 3, and it was well attended. About 35 N.D. men gathered for the high Mass at St. Paul's Church wher e Father Blackwell is pastor. An inspiring tribute to Rockne was paid by the priest who celebrated the Mass. 
Tom Ashe. 

LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
p. E. Burke. '88. 307 Camp SU New Or­leans. La.. President: Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr., 
•28, Whitney-Central Bids., New Orleans, La.. Secretary. The Band members of Holy Cross College, New Orleans, and their di­rector. Brother Titus, C.S.C, were to be guests of the club at the Universal Night dinner and celebration in the home of the club president, Patrick Burke. Speeches were to be limited to one minute, according to Mr. Burke, and there was to be "a pro­gram of entertainment of varied character and a feed including every­
thing desired by the most exacting epicure." 
MANILA 
Alfonso Ponce Emile. '05. Manila. Presi­
dent: Gonxalo R. Valdes, '35. 709 San Mar­
celino. Secretary. 
MEMPHIS 
Galvin Hudson. '15, Parkview Hotel. Presi­
dent; Bailey Walsh, ex. '27. Colombian Mu­
tual Tower, Secretary. 
I am happy to report the result of the Memphis-Notre Dame Club's ob­servance of annual Notre Dame Night, at the Tennessee Club here in Memphis on April 25. 
The party was a great success, and here is substantially what happened: 

We were given 15 minutes on one 

of the local radio stations, WHBQ. 
We played the Victory March for 
the opening number, and then I in­
troduced John Montedonico to the 
radio audience, and he made about a 
10-minute speech, which was well re­
ceived. 
At 7 o'clock the same eevning, we gathered at the Tennessee Club for a splendid steak dinner. Galvin Hud­son presided as president of the club, and I acted as toastmaster for the evening. After the dinner, we sat by the radio and listened to the national chain program. 
We were honored by the presence of Mark Beatus, who is the oldest Irish alumnus here in Memphis. Mr. Beatus, who runs a store, is an 81­year-old Jewish man. He was at Notre Dame 68 years ago, and his speech for the evening was very in­teresting. He talked about the de­mocracy of Notre Dame, and how it was that he went right on to Mass with the boys as though he were a Catholic. He further stated that baseball was a great game at Notre Dame in those days, and that foot­ball was unheard of, and that the University buildings were few and simple. 
We also had with us a prominent alumnus from Clarksdale, Mississippi, for the evening, Mr. Dan Brewer, of the class of '89. Mr. Brewer is a very successful Delta lawyer, and he also was one of the principal speakers of the evening. Arthur G. Brickley, '06, came over from Osceola, Arkan­sas. Mr. Brickley is a substantial planter. John Mulligran, Lake Vil­lage, Ai-kansas, and Bryan C. Mc-Geary, Greenville, Mississippi, were also guests for the evening. 
We had another prominent visitor, who, by the way, now belongs to our club, Ernie Gregoria, '34. Ernie is here in Memphis now, connected with the Nolan Construction Company, which has to do with some govern­mental engineering projects on Front Street. It seems that he will prob­ably be here for tivo years on this work. 
We had about 35 men participating in our celebration and all in all, it was a very happy affair. Sturia Canale, Charles Schaffler and Jerry Foley were in charge of the arrange­ments for the evening, and they de­serve a big hand for the job which they did. 
Mr. Hudson outlined a program for the club for the year, and it is his hope to stimulate an interest all over the Tri-States in our Memphis-Notre Dame club, and to have all Notre Dame men in the Tri-States' area ac­tive members of the Memphis-Notre Dame Club. We have monthly lunch­eon meetings, and it planned, if pos­
sible, to have a dance some time dar­
ing the summer at one of our local 
roofs. Also in the future, we hope 
to attend one of the games, either in 
South Bend, or perhaps Atlanta, in a 
body. 
All of these plans, of course, are 

in the making, but I am satisfied with 
the enthusiasm which exists, they wiU 
materialize. 
Bailey Walsh. 

MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent C. Giblin, '18, 4103 Collins Ave., Miami Beach, President; Daniel J. Lino, ex. 

•34, 1617 N. W. Ninth Ave.. Miami, Secre­tary. 
MILWAUKEE 
John Clander, '34. 1219 Vliet St., President: John Jaeger, '33, 1628 W. Wisconsin Ave., Milwaukee, Secretary. 
Over 100 men, the largest group ever to attend a Notre Dame function in Milwaukee, celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night in the Milwaukee Athletic Club's Elizabethan Room, Monday evening, April 25. 
Toastmaster Jerome Fox handled the proceedings excellently, and more than lived up his reputation. A splendi d job of introducing the speakers was done by the "Chilton Flash." 
Speakers for the evening were Roundy Coughlin, prominent IVIadi­son newspaper man; Bill Cemey, as­sistant to Elmer Layden; Harry Stuhldreher, University of Wisconsin athletic director; and Paddy Driscoll, football coach at Marquette Univer­sity. 
In addition to previewing the Big Ten football prospects for 1938, Roundy gave us the lowdown on Hol­lywood and the movie colony where he spent several weeks while cover­ing the Rose Bowl game. Because Roundy is noted for his accurate pre­dictions and abundance of knowledge on many subjects Toastmaster Fox suggested that he answer a few ques­tions that were asked by the guests. In their respective leagues, the Gold­en Gophers, New York Yankees and University of Wisconsin co-eds were given top honors by Roundy. 
Harrj' Stuhldreher's sidelights on the Four Horsemen and reminiscences of his four years on the campus were excellent. His stories about Knute Rockne were very well received. 
"Notre Dame is going to have a football team next year, and a mighty good one. We won't lose a single game! (Applause) I'm speaking, of course, about the B team," said Bill Cemey. (Groans) He gave an inter­esting talk on Notre Dame's develop­ment and spoke of the future plans for beautifying and expanding the campus. His remarks regarding the. 1938 football prospects at Notre Dame were limited to the problem of replacing men who will be graduated in June. Pictures of the entire Min­
The Notre Dame Alumnus May, 1938 
nesota game were sho^\-n, and Bill sent everj-one away happy. 
His football experiences at North­western university, Great Lakes and in the professional leagues were touched on by Paddy Driscoll. He also spoke of games he played against Notre Dame. Right now Paddy is busy looking for someone who can toss a ball around Bm'id-like fashion. 
Many distinguished members of Marquette's alumni were present in­cluding Messrs. Vincent McHugh, Charles Regan, Judge Tom Shannon and Nolan Kenny. 
President Clauder was unable to hold a meeting to elect new officers for wliich he will probably be im­peached before his wedding day, which is not far off. 
Larry Enright and Ed Graham re­corded the entire proceedings with one of Dictaphone's Telecord ma­chines. After listening to all the speeches Roundy decided liis was best and applauded himself. 
For taking time out to make Uni­versal Notre Dame Night a success the Milwaukee Club wants to take this opportunity to thank Harry Stuhldreher, Bill Cemey and Paddy Driscoll who ai-e all in the midst of spring football practice, Round y Coughlin, whose journalistic endeav­ors keep him humping, and Jerry Fox, who is one of the busiest attorneys in Wisconsin. 
We were happy to have many fa­thers with us. Spotted at tables were Messrs. Burke, Carr, Corrigan and Clauder. 
Little Dauber. 

MONTANA 
Hugh O'Kccfe. '31. 321 Walker St. Butte, President: Eay Conies, '37, 213 N. Idaho St., Butte, Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Montana held its annual meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night at the Placer Hotel in Helena. We had one of our most successful meetings and a large group representing every section of the state attended. Joe Maronick, '32, presided and talks by several prom­inent Montana members were greatly enjoyed as were the football pictures sent us by your office. 
The following officers were elected for 1938: Hugh O'Keefe, '31, Butte, president; Dr. R. C. Monahan, '96, Butte, ^nce - president; Ray Cowles, '37, Butte, seci-etarj'-treasurer; Fa­ther Russell Schleider, '30, Butte, chaplain. 
The city of Butte was selected as the next meeting place. We were told that Elmer Layden may be in Butte this summer and we are all looking forward with great pleasure to seeing him. 
Len Regan. 

NASHVILLE 
Kennedy Jones, '30, Jones Chemical Co., Secretary. 

NEW JERSEY 
Peter J. Quinn, ex. '33, 320 Belleville Ave., Bloomfield. President; Philip Heinle, '35, 76 Oaliview Ave., Maplewood, Secretary. 

Father Joseph E. Hart, C.S.C, of the Mission Band, was one of the principal speakers at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner of the New Jersey club in the Essex House, New­ark. Phil Heinle, secretary of the club, reports that "our affair was a grand success due to the hard work of Jack Winberry and Frank McDer­mott, and there were approximately 150 former Notre Dame men in at­tendance." 
Other speakers were Judge Thomas 

G. Walker of the Court of Errors and Appeals; Joseph M. Byrne; Cap­tain F. A. March, public relations of­ficer at West Point; Captain Maurice (Moe) Dalej-, retiring assistant foot­ball coach for the Army; Frank Shaughnessy, president of the Inter­national League; Dr. Bernard A. O'Connor, medical director of St. Michael's Hospital; Lee Mains; Pete 
Quinn, president of the club. Ed Duggan was toastmaster. Club elections were to be on May 
3. Plans are in the making for the club's annual spring dance on June 18. 
NEW YORK CITY 
Daniel J. O'Neil, '25, 101 Cooper St.. Presi­
dent: Robert A. Hamilton, '28, 63 Wall St, 
Secretary. 
Here's the news chronologically— 

In answer to His Eminence Patrick Cardinal Hayes' request for a good Catholic turnout on St. Patrick's Day this year, Notre Dame responded en­thusiastically. It was the initial ap­pearance of the Fighting Irish in this famous New York City parade. Car­rying our newly - purchased Notre Dame banner were Ed Fallon, Leo V. McLaughlin, James McDevxtt, Warren Fogel, Larry Darrow, Herb Georgio and Henry Frey. From the very be­ginning to the end of the parade the continual cheers for Notre Dame from the spectators were most inspir­ing to the marching men. 
Meeting of the club, March 24. The club endorsed the appointment of a Committee of Three with John 
T. Balfe as chairman, and James Dwyer and Louis Thornton as the members, to act for the Notre Dame club in cooperation with the various Catholic lay organizations of the archdiocese of New York. With the numerous demands made upon the club, this committee TOU be a busy one, especially with the New York State Constitutional Convention in progress. 
Colman O'Shaughnessy was Con­gratulated by Lowell Thomas in an interview over the radio, upon re­ceipt of the 1937 award of the Ad­vertising Club of New York for the best layout of direct mail advei-tising. 
The members of the class of 1937 meet each Thursday for dinner at the Steuben Tavern, Times Square. 
A bowling tournament is to be held 

Such noted persons as these were present when the Los Angeles Club met on Universal Night: Francis Wallace, Don Wilson, Joseph Scott, Pat O'Brien, Alan Dwan, Tyrone Power, Terence Cosgrove, Tom Lieb. See Los Angeles Club netas. 
May, 1938 
at the Centre Club between memhers of the classes of 1935 and 1937. 
Jack Reilly, '33, writes from Phil­adelphia, inquiring about his old roommates, Jerry Finneran, Jac k Laurie, Drew Shiebler and B. Ward. 
On May 6, 1938, John B. Hinkel sails for Europe to visit Spain, and then Budapest to repoi-t on the Eu­charistic Congress. 
At a subsequent club meeting, our President Leo V. McLaughlin con­ducted a forum. The purpose of which was to discuss at length a plan 
Left to right on the campus, the three recip­ients of the New York CIub*s scholarship: Vincent Doyle, '40, of Brooklj-n Prep : William Oark, '41, of St. Gabriel's Hish school. New Rochclle: Joseph Hcnncssy, 'S9, of St. Agnes Academy, Rock\-ille Centre. Long Island. 

of activities. Club functions, such as social, religious, financial, athletic, and educational, were gone into at great length. In connection with the social progi'am. Doc Geison reported correspondence fro m the United States Military Academy at West Point suggesting that, sinc e the Notre Dame--^my game will he the t^venty-fifth one, the Notre Dame Club of New York should get to­gether with the cadets and have one joint dinner-dance. 
The Kockne Memorial Mass and Breakfast, April 3. -A. fine represen­tation of boys attended Mass and received Holy Communion in the Actors' Chapel of St. Malachy's Church. Father William A. Bolger, C.S.C., was the celebrant. Father Thomas Hart, C.S.C., after Mass pointed out that the chapel with its grotto had very much the atmosphere of the campus chapels. 
At the very enjoyable breakfast, immediately following Mass, at the Centre Club, Father Bolger spoke to the boys in very much the same fash­ion for which he was famous at Notre Dame. He brought up to date "what every dull old man should know" of current economic problems. 
Rev. Dr. B. Code, professor of his­tory at Catholic University, gave some very interesting and enlighten­ing facts of the Spanish situation on which he is an authority. His re­marks concerning the amount of money spent by the Spanish Embas­sy in Washington on propaganda created quite a stir in the newspapers nationally. 
The nominating committee selected 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
the new members for the board of governors. They are: Leo V. Mc­Laughlin, John V. Hinkel, Thomas F. Lantry, Florence McCarthy, James L. Rizer, William A. Walsh, Dan Halpin, Raymond J. Scanlon, Robert A. Ham­ilton, Henry R. Frey. 
The board of governors met and elected the new officers for the com­ing year. The men elected are: Daniel O'Neil, president; Daniel Hal-pin, ^^ce-pres^dent; Robert A. Hamil­ton, secretary; John Balfe, treasurer. The new officers were installed Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. 
Since my responsibility for the ac­
tivities of the club terminate this 
night, I wish to take this oppoi-tunity 
to thank each and every one who has 
aided in lightening the task of the 
secretary by contributing in some 
way to this column, and now permit 
me to turn you over to the new Sec­
retary Robert A. Hamilton, whose 
report on Universal Notre Dame 
Night follows. 
Henry Frey. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was a grand success, with over 100 mem­bers being in attendance a the Mc-Alpin. John Hinkel arranged a pai-t}^ to the satisfaction of all. 
Leo McLaughlin opened the affair by introducing the newly elected offi­cei-s. He thanked Warren Fogel, Bud Callagy and Henrj' Fi-ey for their loyal co-opei-ation during the past year. Hugh O'Donnell was then in­troduced as the first honorary presi­dent to be elected in recognition of his years of devotion to the club and his "boys." Hugh also filled the role of toastmaster and handled the situa­tion from thei-e on in his own inim­itable manner. 
Father J. A. Rath, 'OS, of Belmont, 
L. I., was the first speaker, and he proved conclusively that "lobbying" for just causes is an effective weapon in the hands of the clergy and laity by pointing to Governor Lehman's recent signing of a bill which gives free bus service to parochial, as well as public school children, after hav­ing vetoed the measure a year ago. 

John Kieran, New York Times sports editor, gave another of his very interesting sport talks, flavored with Rock and Jim Crowley anec­dotes. 
Bernard Zufall, a guest of Bill Daunt's and a member of the Ameri­can Society of Magicians, then enter­tained us with a remarkable exhibi­tion of memory wizardry which, he said, would make wTiting "cribs" on your cuif unnecessary. Incidentally, Mr. Zufall has acquired what is con­sidered to be one of the finest collec­tions of books relating to memory in the world. 
Captain Kelly, one of Mayo r Hague's lieutenants in his war on 
Jersey City "Reds" and a former sol-' dier of fortune, then related to us many of his experiences in foreign lands. 
Another speaker of the evening. Father Murdock, the chaplain of West Point, left a sickbed to be with us. He immediately proceeded to tighten the ties which bind the Cadets an d ourselves. Father Murdock proved that good. God-fearing sol­diers are among the world's finest "missionaries"—and showed us that the U. S. Military Academy has. fos­tered religious principles, as well as military objectives, among the rank and file. He proved conclusively that the popular conception of West Point as being irreligious was a fallacy and that those in charge were extremely anxious to preserve a strong moral and religious perspective. 
Permission has recently been granted to erect a Catholic center of activity and a Newman Club at the Point. Of the entire Corps of 1,700 men, approximately 415 are Catholics and of these 80 percent are weekly communicants. Notre Dame had bet­ter look to her laurels in this field! It is e^^dent that we have more in common with the Cadets than foot­ball. Father Murdock reminded us that this year will witness the twenty-fifth meeting of our teams. He con­cluded his inspiring talk by inviting any or all Notre Dame club members to visit him at the Point and assured us of a royal welcome. He will dem­onstrate that Notre Dame and West Point have more than one phase of acti\-ity in common. 
Father John Kelly, chaplain of the Catholic Writer's Guild and an hon­orary member of our club, was then introduced and received a fine ova­tion. 

Leo McLaughlin, our retiring pres­ident, closed the formal doings and the crowd broke into informal groups of classmates for "bull sessions" and to listen to the national hook-up. The breakdown in the broadcast occas­ioned one wit to remark that "Notre Dame fumbled the pick-up but N.B.C. recovered both." 
Among those present were: Doc Geison, John Balfe, Father Tom Mc-Avoy, C.S.C., Ed Arthur, Jack A. Bartley, Ray P. Boyce, Jim P. Boy-Ian, Dan J. Bradley, E. F. Brennan, Charles W. Call, Frank A. Carroll, Gene Connelly, Dan Cunningham, Jim 
M. Curry, C. De Barry, Dick L. Don­oghue. Bill T. Doyle, Victor W. Fisch­er, W. S. Fogel, Bill R. Foley, Jr., Kenneth B. Fox, Joe G. Friel, Jack 
P. Guerin, Jordan T. Hargrove, Ed. 

J. Hoyt, Jack A. Hoyt, Jr., Tom Joha Hughes, E. P. Huisldng, Frank R. Huisking, BUI W. Huuking, Jack WU-Ham Jackson, Frank L. Kane, L. V. Keefe, Jack E. Kenney. 
Jim H. Kirby, W. B. Kirk, J. P. 

KUiIing, Tom F. Lantry, Jack La­velle, Tom Listzwan, F. J. McCarthy, Jr., W. M. McNally, P. H. Manolchie, 
F. S. Mathews, Jack Moran, Bill B. MoH, William J. Murphy, Joe B. My­ron, Julius Nardone, Joe P. Nugent, Jim C. O'Connor, Jr., H. Pierce, W. 
J. Reid, Bernard F. Reilly, Jim F. Re-ville. Jack J. Roche, E. F. Rooney, J. 
W. Schmidt, J. L. Sheerin, Sigmund 
J. Sluszka, Cyril F. Stroker, Charles 
J. Sullivan, Earl F. Walsh, Tom J. Walsh, William A. Walsh, Sr., Wil­liam A. Walsh, Jr., Frank Wachsmuth and Jack Werner, 
Approximately 30 more fellows were present but failed to fill out cards which are the nucleus for a rensed mailing list. 
Plans are being 7)iade for a very active year in tltis organization and, if you fellows want to participate, you are urgently advised to give your name, address, class, degree, and oc­cupation to the new secretary, Bob Hamilton, 6S Wall Street, Neto York City. 
At the meeting more than 50 fel­lows indicated an active interest in attending a theatre party to help swell the Scholarship Fund. Interest in an all-day outing at a local coun­trj' club was eridenced by the fact that 46 of the boys said "Yes" in re­sponse to this subject. 
We repeat—^kindly give full details to Bob Hamilton as to where you wish your mail addressed — we wouldn't want you to miss out on anything. 
Robert A. Hamilton. 

NORTHERN LOUISIANA 
Arthur J. Knnc, *31, 307 Wilkinson, Slireve­
port, President; James R, Nowcry, '29, 
P, O, Box 1645, Shreveport, Secretary. 

Universal Notre Dame Night went over big for the Notre Dame club of Northern Louisiana. We had a very nice turn-out in Shreveport, ate a nice meal and had a local station hook-up on KEMD. Art Kane gave a short talk on Notre Dame, and we heard the national hook-up. Art Kane was reelected president, and I was reelected treasurer for the com­ing year. 
James R, Nowery, 

Shreveport showed Father Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., and Arthur Haley, visiting in the interests of the Rock­ne Memorial, that Louisiana hospital­ity can rival that of Texas. The cam­pus visitors were in the northern Louisiana stronghold on April 8 and 
9. A Notre Dame meeting and other contacts produced an honor roll of Art and Mike Carmody, Don Laskey, Frank Rolwing, Bob Roy, Dick Now­ery, Vic Martzell, Bill Hunter, Art Kane and C. D. Jones. 
Distinguished guest at the alumni meeting with Father O'Donnell and Mr. Haley was Most Eev. Daniel F. Desmond, D.D., Bishop of Alexandria. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Paul J. Cushinc, '31, 1221 Central Bank 
BldB.. Oakland. Calif.. President; Paul M. 
Enrisht. '31, Central Bank BldB-, Oakland, 
Calif.. Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Northern California had its Universal Notre Dame Night meeting and dinner at the Union League Club. Our retiring president, Bemie Abrott, '27, had to leave early to attend a political rally in Oakland. 
Paul Cushing, '31, was elected president for the coming year. Tom Durkin, '37, our freshman member, was made vice - president, and your correspondent, secretarj'. 
The club continues to grow . JVmong those present for the first time were AssembljTnan Jack O'Don­nell, '15, and Father McGoldrick, "Padre of the Snows," whose parish is 130 miles long by 90 wide by one foot deep. The Padre of the Snows is now our newest sjTithetic alumnus. 
Perhaps a report on some of us newcomers is in order. Tom Durkin, '37, is selling coal, in California, honest; Bob McDonald, '30, handles sporting goods for the Maxwell Hard-Ware Co. and is something of a bad­minton player—anyway, he heats me; Bill Sheehan, '35, from far-off New Hampshire, is with the American Trust Co; Art Evans, '29, is in Rich­mond with the State Employment Sem'ce; L. A. O'Leary, Ph.D. '33, is with the Fuller Co. 
Your correspondent has not stayed put very long. After two years in Austin, Texas, where I taught at St. Ed's, took graduate work at the Uni­versity of Texas, and was a structural engineer for the C.W.A., I went to th e Tennessee Valley Authority. After two years there, mostly at Nor­ris Dam, I came out here to work for Paul Cushing, '31, vice-president and chief engineer for the Hydraulic Dredging Co. Paul is the father of three iine boys, and it won't be long 
May. 1938 

before the oldest is back at Notre Dame. Paul M. Enright. 

NorfA fowa 
(new dub) 

The Mason City Globe-Gazette, in its issue of April 26, presented the following story of the formation of a new Notre Dame Club on Universal Notre Dame Night: 
"The first meeting of the North Iowa Notre Dame club and an ad­dress on the North Iowa Forum over KGLO by George Harrer on the his­tory and development of Notre Dame University Monday evening consti­tuted the observance in Mason City of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
"M. L. Mason acted as toastmaster for the informal program of talks that was given following the dinner, 
T. J. McDermott, who was scheduled to address the group, was unable to be present. 
"Plans were formulated for two more meetings, one in the summer when the Notre Dame students are home for vacation and the other next spring. C. J. Casey was appointed to act as secretary until a more com­plete organization setup is adopted. 
"Fathers of Notre Dame students from Mason City were guests of the alumni. There included Edward An­derson, Leo Davey, Otto Lindstrom, George Harrer, W. B. Casey and Manus Campbell. 
"The alumni attending the ban­quet were: R. J. Sullivan, T. C. Don­ovan, Walter Kennedy, William J. Kennedy, Dr. Kennedy, J. F. Ken­nedy, New Hampton; Leo O'Connor, Lawler; Don Nugent and Wade Sulli­van, Algona; Milton Leach, Charles City; H. H, Hunt, Waverly; W. T. Branagan and Edward D. Kelly, Em­metsburg; and B. R. Dunn, M. L, 
NORTHERN CALtFORNIA CLDB EETEEAT. UAECH i-6 
Front row: Father William Boland, Luke KJdly, Father HcGummlsky, Eeene Fitzpatrick, Dr. 
McCarthy, Dr. R. Doren, Father Crowley, Ed Kinz; t»d Row: CliS Lussier, W. B. McDonald, 
G. Collier, Dr, R. J. Ravizza, J. FinneRan, WHIiam J. O'Connor, H. G. Kreutzer, G. Jones, J, D. 
Woods, D, O. Donovan; ard Rom: J. Enos, Leo Dnesan, M. Spinetti, Ed Lattis, E. O, Whitney, 
F, Ssnsuinetti, E. Hunter, Earl Lussier, Dickson Bell, Phn Bosari, J. W, HsMine; itk Row: Ed 
Hall, Roy Kelleher, George P. Leyes, AI Quinn, Paul Gilbert, Maurice Growney, Harry Peters, 
Joe Downes, J<An O'Brien, Ray Lussier. (Arrived after picture was taken: Paul Cushing, T. D. 
Durkin, jr.. PhHip E, Kelly.) 
May. 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 195 
Mason, Charles J. Casey, Stanley Comfort and Robert Harrer. "Paul Hurley, Mason City, at­tended as a guest." 
OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. Moran, '32, 1611 S. Carson, Tulsa, 
President; Marion J. Blake, '33, National 
Bank of Tulsa Bids., Tulsa. Secretary. 

F^om Marion Blake and the guests of honor comes the following: 
Tulsa brought in a gusher of Notre Dame men for a recent visit of Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., vice-presi­dent of the University, Elmer Lay-den, director of athletics, and J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics. The two campus represen­tives were on a Southwestern trip in the interest of the Eockne Memorial. 
Joseph A, La Fortune, '18, vice-president of the Warren Petroleum Company, was host to 100 alumni and other prominent Tulsans in honor of the occasion at a dinner, March 21, at the Tulsa Club.. In addition to the N.D. men of Tulsa, guests in­cluded alumni from Oklahoma City, El Reho, Okmulgee, Okarche, Enid, Burbank and Ada. 
The Moran brothers in Tulsa, Ed­gar, Walter and Joe, were also hosts at a luncheon to Father O'Donnell, Elmer and Art, at the Southwest Hills Country Club. This gathering was distinguished by the presence of Jo­seph T. Lantry, football coach in 1908-09; L. H. Marks, football coach at Notre Dame from 1911 to 1913; Jesse Harper, coach of football from 1913 to 1917; and Elmer P. Layden, coach of football since 1934. 
Newsworthy was the presence of Arch Leonard, a student at Notre Dame in the late '80s. Mr. Leonard, oil man, private plane owner, was grounded at the Kansas City airport the morning of March 31, 1931. The airport manager asked if he'd like to meet a passenger on an airliner also grounded there by the weather, wait­ing for the signal to go ahead. The passenger was Knute Rockne, whom Mr. Leonard met then for the first, and last, time. Rock's plane crashed a few hours later along a pipe line belonging to Mr. Leonard's company. 
OREGON 
Barney McNab. '25, Terminal Sales BI3s.. Portland. President: Natt McDoui^ll, Jr., 
•33, 45 S. W. First Avenue, Portland, Sec­retary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Oregon met 35 strong, in the new dining halls of the University of Portland to ob­serve Universal Notre Dame Night on April 25. 
Charles J. HIrschbuhi, '22, pre­sided. Reports were heard concern­ing the club's activities for the year 1937, which included the sponsoring of a talk on "Communism" by Arthur Hughes. 
Barney MacNab, '25, Terminal Sales Building, Portland, Oregon, was elected president for 1938; H. J. Harstick, '25, Foster & Kleiser, 633 
N.E. Everett, Portland, Oregon, was elected vice-president; Natt McDou­gall, Jr., '33, 45 S.W. First Avenue, Portland, Oregon, was elected secre­tary-treasurer. 
Father Michael J. Early, C.S.C., 

president of the University of Port­land, who proved a genial host in offer­ing the facilities of the new University dining halls, is going to have a special Mass said on Sunday, May 8, at which the Notre Dame Club of Ore­gon shall receive Communion in a body as a memorial to the late Knute 
Rockne. 
Bill Schmitt, '08, told of his enjoy­able trip back to the campus of Notre Dame after an absence of 30 years. Bill's reactions were of great interest. He feels that while Notre Dame has undergone many changes for the bet­ter, it has lost none of its old charm and simplicity. 
Several of the boys drove many miles to attend our meeting, and their example serves as an inspiration to those who do not have to make any sacrifices to be present at these an­nual gatherings. Among those who came from out of the city were: Ed Barrett, '35, Albany, Oregon, Ray Barrett, '32, Albany, Oregon, Carl 
J. Barr, '23, Salem, Oregon. 
Coe A. McKenna, *08, Frank Lon­

ergan, '04, and Ed Casey, ex. '37, en­tertained us with stories of their ex­periences while at Notre Dame. 
The meeting was a success from every point of view. 
We are going to continue our prac­tice of awarding a watch to the out­standing graduating scholar and ath­lete at the University of Portland. 
Natt McDougall, Jr. 

PARIS 
Louis P. Harl. '16, Paris Office, New York 
IIcrald-Tribunc, Paris, France, President. 

PEORIA 
Al Gury, Jr., '28, 530 W. Richwoods Blvd., 
President: John Sloan, '33, 233 N. Undpr­
hill. Secretary. 

This year's Peoria observance by the club of Universal Notre Dame Night turned out to be the most suc­cessful in its history. The audience —over 150 attended the dinner at the Pere Marquette Hotel—^was the greatest; the speaker—the incompar­able Pat Manion — was unexcelled. Numerous friends of Notre Dame, numerous non-Catholics, carrie d home with them the ringing words of Pat's eloquence voicing ideals of Notre Dame in this world in which the Godless are arrayed against God­liness, which many of them had never realized before. 
The judiciary, the doctors, the law­yers, the business men, all well rep­resented at the occasion, learned from Pat that Notre Dame will ever remain one of the strongholds of Americanism as voiced by the patriots of the Revolution in the initial sen­tence of the Declaration of Indepen­dence. In this world of complexity of laws, Pat emphasized that all keep in mind the high ideals of the late Colonel Hoynes that law be ever a means of safeguarding man's God-given rights. If ever Notre Dame dispatched an emissary of good will, (t was Pat Manion on this occasion. Our good fortune in securing his at­tendance should ever be unparalleled. 
Great credit for the success of the evening is due to our chairman, John 
E. Cassidy. Al Gury, president of the club, worked diligently, too, and Bill Motsett deserves much credit for his untiring work in the disposition of tickets. 
Songs by Francis Moran and Bud­dy Butler furnished a high standard of entertainment. Th e complete movie of the Notre Dame-Minnesota game completed a marvelous evening, which all who attended shall ever re­member. 
The March meeting of the dub was held at Eeiss'. Don Phillips, dis­trict manager of the Phillips Petro­leum Company, was the speaker of the evening. Displaying a remark­able technical knowledge of the oil industry and refining process, Mr. Phillips had no trouble in securing the enthusiasms of the club members. Joe Langton was the able chairman in charge of the meeting. 
John F. Sloan, Jr. 

PHILADELPHIA 
William E. Cooney, '32, 5725 McDIahon Ave., President; A. J. Wackerman, *35, 5356 Chew St., Secretary. 

The club had its annual Rockne Communion in the Cathedral of St. Peter and Paul on March 27. The celebrant of the Mass (the children's) called the occasion to attention of the innumerable children present. 
Breakfast following the Mass was in the Penn Athletic Club. The fol­lowing were present: Jack Reilly, Walter Ridley, Joseph Mahoney, Bry­an Hayes, Jack Kenney, Joe Dalsey, Tom Magee, J. H. Neeson, Jr., Joe O'Neill, John Byrne, Bill Cooney, Pat Conway, Louis Gabriel, £. Bradley Bailey, William A. A. Castellini, James J. Qninn, Fred R. Gabriel, Dick McClure, Adrian J. Wacker-man, Lindsay B. Phoebus, Thomas F. Carroll, Jr., John T. Neeson, John J. Matthews, Connie Byrne, C. E. Pro­dehl, Walter F. Phillip, Hugh A. Wynn, Alfred F. J. D'Amora, H. H. Francis, Jr., G. T. Degen, H. P. Degen, John H. Neeson, Jesse James, 
J. J. Brady. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus May. 1938 
PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. J. Hilkert, •22, 402 Title & Trust Bids.. Phoenix, President. 

RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. Thomas Collins. '2S, 166 New Boston Road. Fall River, Mass., President; John Mc-LaiiEhlin, '34, Sneech Pond Road, Cumber­land Hill, R- I., Secretary. 
On Universal Notre Dame Islght we had a round table discussion at the Narragansett Hotel, Providence, and among those present were: Char­lie Grimes, '20, Leo McAloon, '30, John Jolly, '21, Tom Collins, '28, John McKieman, '34, John Desmond, '36, George Grimes, '36, Joe Grimes, '27. A huffet luncheon and an old session, similar to those of by-gone days on the campus, were the' pro­gram. 
Our next meeting is scheduled for the second week in May at which time officers for the coming year will be chosen to carry on the destinies of the club. 
John J. McLaughlin. 

ROCHESTER (New York) 
D. Bernard Hennessey, •34, 119 Bedford St., President: Gerard Farrell, '34, 447 Thurston Road, Secretary. 

Last night Rochester marked its most celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night in the history of the tra­dition. 
The local affair was a huge success from the first line of public notice to the last strain of a rousing Victory March. We of the Eochester Club feel that our observance of U.N.D. Night was as worthy of note as many of those of the larger cities. The local press and three radio stations were most obliging in our efforts to make the event a success. 
Probably the most satisfactoi-y part of it all was the sight of so many of the older members of the alumni group. It was a pleasure to see them, long after the formalities were over, standing in groups recalling old times at Notre Dame. 
Among those present were Mark Eilers, '19, Emil Reidman, '14, Joe Miller, '16, Ray Mead, '21, Tom O'Connor, '14, Leon Lynch, '22, Wolfgang Heinrich, '20, Norb Bag­lin, '19, Art Curran, 'IG, and a dozen others of the old guard. 
The principal speakers were our old friend, Joe Flynn; Don Corbett, assistant attorney general of New York State; Joe Doran, assistant 
U.S. attorney; and Harold P. Burke, federal judge—all Notre Dame men and all very successful in their chosen careers. In addition to them, there was our most welcome friend. Father Tom Kelly, C.S.C, directly from the campus. 
All of them entertained us with excellent talks and re-inspired us with the spirit of Notre Dame by their tales of campus life. Harold Burke recounted much of the tradition of old St Joe Hall and of the activity of Brother Flo. It was interesting to us of the younger alumni, especially those of us who lived in such halls as Carroll, Badin, and Corby, to realize how in spite of its physical change that same spirit of democracy still prevailed on the campus when we were there. 
Father Kelly's message was as gladly received as he himself. We cannot begin to tell you how happy we were to have a representative from the campus with us. And after spoiling us once like this, we feel that in the future you cannot let us down —and we •ivill be looking forward to having a member of the Order with us each year at this time. 
It was certainly reassuring to hear Father Kelly tell how the present administration has remembered the poor boy and taken steps to preserve a place for him at Notre Dame. It dispelled a fear that the magnificance of so many of the new residence halls had aroused. 
With Father Kelly we send back to Father O'Hara a reciprocation of his affection and a renewed pledge of unending loyalty. 
Jerry Farrell, 

ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) 
Ralph F. Hecer, '25, 1351 W. Stoner St., Freeport, 111., President: Robert Dixon, '25, Freeport, HL, Secretary. 

Enclosed please find personal check for the Kockne Memorial Fund which is the result of a collection last night at the Notre Dame Banquet. I trust that you will see that it reaches the proper person. [Many hearty thanks to the Rock River Valley club for its generous contribution of $50 to the Rockne Fund—^Eds.] 
The site of the celebration was the Rainbow Inn, Dixon, Illinois, and the following persons were present: Paul Fry, Joe Judge, Jack Cahill, Doctors Dave Murphy and Ed Mur­phy, Sherwood Dixon and Bob Dixon, Willard Jones, Jerry Jones, Ed Rock, Robert Bracken, Red Lahey, Earl James, Dixon; D. J. Hooley, John Hooley, Elmer Hooley, Vince Carney, Paul O'Neil, Bill Hayes, Jim Dubbs, John Calkin, Bill O'Mara, Ralph Heger, Jack Killian, Ellsworth Ronan, Earl Antoine, Dr. Gene Sullivan and your correspondent. 
Ralph Heger, of Freeport, was elected president for the ensuing year, Tom Parker, Sterling, vice-president, and Bob Dixon, secretary. 
£. M. Sullivan. 

SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Thomas F. Van Aarle. '21, Standard OH Co., 
Saginaw, Mich.. President: William C, Hur­
ley, '25, 117 Cherry St., Saginaw, Mich., 
Secretary. 

Our party on Universal Notre Dame Night, though small, was very much of a success. It was a dinner dance held at a local club given over to us exclusively. Tom Van Aarle, Jack Zuber, Art Kerns and I acted as a committee. Naturally we were all there along with Harold Lappin, Bill Kortb, John Strable, John Nickode­mus, Joe Burton, Charley Kretschmer and Joe Friske. 
We were glad to have with us Paul Flanagan, '32, who recently became associated with a local firm of archi­tects, and John Cavanaugh, '34, who is with a public accounting firm in Bay City. His delightful companion provided me with an experience—^that of being interviewed for the Michigan Catholic. Pete Brysselbout, '29, ex­pected to be here, but at the last minute had to send his regrets as did Joe Davey, '34, now a local merchant in Alma. Ed Kerns, '34, too, at the last minute found himself unable to be with us, and Ben Mahank, '26, was in the same boat. 
Tom Van -4arle proved to be some­what of a sensation on the local broadcast Due to the kindness of WBCM of Bay Citj' and the Green Mill, where the party was held, we were able to broadcast direct from the dance. It went over well. Later in the evening the band itself was on the air for half an hour. 
The local Michigan alumni were having President Euthven as their guest speaker at a dinner. At Tom Van Aarle's invitation several cou­ples of them came over later and joined our party. 
We are planning a meeting and election of officers soon. No more news till then. Tell Willard Jones I said hello and that I'm still in the same shape—^no money, no friends, no wife. 
Bill Hurley. 

SAN ANTONIO 
William V. Dielmann. Jr., '25, 107 Thelma Drive. President: Edward G. Conroy, '30, 204 E. Craig PI., Secretary. 

SANDUSKY, OHIO 
Charles M. Mouch. '25, 925 W. Washington Street, President: Russell B. Smith, '28, 2117 Monroe Street, SecreUiry. 

SCRANTON 
Robert A. Golden, '32, 216 Colfax Ave., President; Thomas F. I*ahy, '23, 415 Chamber of Commerce Bldg., Secretary. 

"The wires have broken down, but Father O'Hara's most assuredly did not break down! To the contrary, he gave us a message which was not only exceedingly inspiring but was so timely that no Notre Dame man could possibly fail to recognize its deep significance in the light of pres­ent day world affairs." 
That is a brief summary of the opinions regarding th e Universal 
May. 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Notre Dame Night radio program ex­pressed by members of the Notre Dame Club of Scranton who attended a dinner held in obsex-vance of the occasion in this city. This dinner was held at the Ritz Grill and proved to be very enjoyable and entertaining. Arrangements were in charge of a committee headed by Chic O'Malley, '31, who is currently serving his fel­low citizens in the capacity of secre­tary to the mayor of Sci-anton. 
Bob Golden, '32, president of our club, was the chairman, and Jim Jor­dan, '07, vice-president, was the toastmaster. Others who attended the dinner w^ere Joe Manning, '29, Tom Harrington, '34, Jack Boland, '31, Joe O'Hora, '31, Ed Philbin, '33, Bill Blewitt, '27, Gerry Battle, '32, Jim Devers, '33, Bob Harrington, '32, Charles O'Malley, '15, Ed Shean, '31, and of course, the secretary. 
Pood was sen'ed at 8 P.M., E.S.T., in order to insui-e that the dishes would be out of the way before the radio program started at 10:15 P.M. 
E.S.T. The boys then gathered around the radio in a circle which re­minded one of a good old-fashioned story-telling contest in one of the tower rooms of Sorin Hall. Follow­ing the radio program the Victory March and the Hike Song were sung by the boys under the direction of Ed Shean. Joe O'Hora then led in the rendering of other old favorite songs. There wasn't a pianist In the crowd, but instrumental music was not missed because Jack Boland's deep basso was really as good as organ accompaniment. 
-•is you know, our club was organ­ized only a few weeks ago, and up to the present time we have not done much at our meetings except to make aiTangements for a few social affaii-s which we have held. However, at our last regular meeting held April 19, the president was instructed to ap­point a committee to map out a pro­gram of activities for the balance of the year, taking into consideration that the club might be able to render some real service by taking an inter­est in local ci\'ic activities such as the Boy Scouts and other character build­ing organizations. President Golden named the following individuals to serve on this committee—Jim Jordan, chairman, Tony O'Boyle, Charle s O'Malley and Vincent McCoola. 
We hope to be able to report on at least the start of some such activities next month. 
Tom Leahy, 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
Oliver Field. '31. 10116 S. Walnut St. President: Walter Bernard. '36, 815 S. Wal­nut St,, Secretary. 

The headliners on our Universal Night program were Jack Chevigny, '31, and Mike Seyfrit, '23. 
Jack came up from the oil fields in Centralia, Illinois, and Mike left his duties as state's attorney in Car­linville long enough to be with us and tell us tales of the Old School and remind us (especially Chevigny) of the things that were expected of us as alumni. 
We had 23 for dinner at the St. Nicholas Hotel here in Springfield. Oliver Field was on the air over WTAX, the Illinois State Register station, in a 15-minute program. 

Plans were made for the fourth an­nual Mother's Day Breakfast to be held on May 8. We will receive Communion in a body at the eight o'clock Mass at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception, with break­fast at nine in the Sun Room of the Leland Hotel. A committee was ap­pointed to function for this event, of which Clare Hafel is chairman. Other members of the committee are Joe Gardewin, who has recently come to Springfield as an auditor in the state depai-tment of finance, Roscoe Bon­jean, who, besides being a verj' prom­ising youn g practicing attorney, sen'es as counsel for the state fire marshal. Bill White and Jack Monck­
ton. 
The committee in charge of Uni­vei-sal Night and who ai-e entitled to a gi'eat deal of thanks for their ef­forts in staging the event are Paul Dixon, our Democi-atic nominee for the state legislature, Bill Irvine, Charley Schuttey, John Carroll and Joe Golo­
bowski. Mike Sej'frit brought Steve 
Carmody, '23, with him from Carlin-
ville and they both have promised to 
take an active part in the future 
functions of the club. 
Walter Bernard. 

SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT 
John C. RedKate. '30. 92 Aldine Ave., BridEcport. President: Dr. Thomas J. Tara­sovic. '33. 49 Dover St., Bridtreport. Secre­tary. 

In conjunction with the national progi-am obsen-ing U.N.D. Night we had a get-together at Journey's Inn, Bridgeport. Both the local papers gave us publicity on the affair and approximately 20 members attended the dinner. 
Father O'Hara's brief but well pointed address emphasizing the need for the ideal of Catholic principles was well received. The men also enjoyed the comments of national president. Bill Cotter, and the selec­tions from Hollywood sung by John McCormack. 
Bill Mulrenan, who had just been elected head of the young Democrats in his to\vn, showed up and became acquainted with a number of the older graduates. John Galla sat pen­sively at the table, and we don't doubt that the office of welfare director in Bridgeport is particularly burden­
•some at this time. Nick Lanete man­aged to find time away from con­struction work to "tie into" a steak. 
Bill O'Reilly tells us the truck sales are not heavy, but he, nevertheless, looks prosperous. Bus Redgate sug­gested we might hold another sheep roast and tentative plans were made for such an outing on June 18. Wal­ter Stapleton advised that we sell tickets and we approved the recom­mendation. Dr. Taratovic seemed quiet, and we were wondering if it was the fatigue from trying out his new golf sticks or the duties of the city clinic combined with the demands of private practice. 

Tom Murphy occupied the head of the table and was fortunate enough in the instance to get cash on the line for the brew his company furnished. The legal talent was represented in the persons of -Attorney Jim Murphy and -Attorney Bob Devine of Nor­walk. 
Elmer Harkabus foun d escape 

from the managerial duties of his luncheonette, and we have yet to ob­tain his comments on the quality of the cuisine at Journey's. 
John MoUoy tells me he no longer has so much time for golf since he has been occupying the attention of a young lady. Which reminds me— Andy Patrick will soon be drawing plans for a house for .himself—he in­tends to marry before much longer. 
Frank Herb explained to me how he carries on an extensive social pro­gram and at the same time manages to make weekly bank deposits out of his salary. I majored in economics and failed to see how he gets the results. 
Ed Broughel and Fran Rooney were very much in evidence and seemed to be enjoying the evening. John Devine rode in from Norwalk and assured me the steaks were as good as Notre Dame's on Saturday nights. 
In the course of regular business procedure, we called our next meet­ing for May 23 and elected the fol­lowing new slate of officers for the year, 1938: John Redgate, president; -Attorney, Robert Devine, vice-presi­dent; Dr. Thomas Tarasovic, secre­tary; Francis Rooney, treasurer. 
We expect to develop our organiza­tion further under this new leader­ship and hope all alumni in this area will make an effort to more fully co­operate with our endeavors. 
£d Monahati. 

SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Donald Sheehy, *33, 104 Glahn Ave.. Syra­cusc. President: William S. Cate, "27, 136 Hardins Place, Syracuse, Secretary. 
Via the film route comes word that 

U.N.D. Night marked the first com­
plete football game in pictures be­fore the Notre Dame Club of Syra­cuse and Central New York. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Ixmb C Chaplcau, '30, SOI Union Tnist 
Bids., South Bend, Ind.. President; Qarcnee 
Hardinir. '25. South Bend Tribune, Sooth 
Bend, Ind., Secretary. 
Joining alumn i throughout the United States in celebrations of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley dined in the facult}^ dining room on the campus and elected 12 directors for the ensuing year. 
With Louis C. Chapleau as toast­master, Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C, dean of the College of Sci­ence; Elmer Layden, head football and director of athletics, and John 
W. Schindler, Mishawaka, were called on for talks. Father Wenninger traced the development of the sci­ence college, and Mr. Schindler told of the early history of the Univer­sity, while Coach Layden told his audience that everj' position on the Irish 1938 football team was "wide open" as a result of graduations but that the squad had worked hard in spring practice and prospects were bright. 
Directors were elected as follows: Alexis Coquitard, Harry S. Driggs, Clarence W. Harding, Louis Hickey, James R. Meehan, Frank Miles, Dil­lon J. Patterson, Joseph S. Petritz, 
R. Floyd Searer, Jack C. Shively, Burton Toepp and Bernard Witucki. 
Arranged by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, and sponsored by the club, a program was broadcast over WFAM, the South Bend Tribune's broadcast­ing station, from 7:30 to 8:00 o'clock. The program included an address by James E. Armstrong, alumni secre­tary, a tenor solo by Jose Corona, Spanish professor at the University, with piano accompaniment by Mr. Patterson, a baritone solo by William 
J. Furey, -nith piano accompaniment by Mr. Harding, and music by the Modemairs, Notre Dame students' dance orchestra. Mr. Corona and Mr. Furey sang also at the dinner. 
Clarence Harding. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ST. LOUIS John J. Hohan. '36, 632 Vogel Place, East 
St. Louis, III., President: Paul Brumby, ex. 
'34, 915 Pierce Bldg., Secretary. The St. Louis Club celebrated Uni­versal Notre Dame Night with the largest tura-out in the history of the club. There were 128 men present. The meeting was held at the York hotel in St. Louis. Father Tom Bren­nan made quite a hit with the fel­lows; his talk was entitled "The Epistle from Notre Dame to St. Louis." 
Joseph McGlynn, the organizer of the first Notre Dame club in St. Louis, and the man most responsible for the continued success of the club, introduced Father Brennan. Joe Mc-GljTin is also the first member of the club to ever be nominated for an of­fice in the national Alumni Associa­tion, being a nominee for the office of vice-president. Naturally he has the backing of the entire club. 
Other speakers were Dr. Matt Weu, former president of the club; Billy Sullivan, catcher for the St. Louis Browns and Notre Dame's only big league ball player; Jimmy Conzel­man, head coach and athletic direc­tor at Washington University; Bill De Witt, the vice-president and gen­eral manager of the St. Louis Browns; Maurice Shevlin, sports editor of the St. Louis Globe-Democrat, and John Hoban as president of the club here in St. Louis. 
Frank Kopczak operated the movie machine and talked during the show­ing of the Notre Dame-Wisconsin pic­tures. All in all the meeting was very successful and plainly showed the fine work that was done by Billy Kjl­loren and Joe McGlynn, who were in charge. 
The club elected new officers as 

follows at its recent business meet­
ing: John Hoban, president; Vince 
Fehlig, vice-president; Frank Kopc­
zak, treasurer; Paul Brumby, secre­
tary. 
Johnny Hoban and Paul Brumby. 
TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Mclmore St., Presi­
dent: Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore 
St.. Secretary. 
The UJ^J). Night national broadcast in the University Gymnasium at which SL Joe Valley club members were special guests. 
May. 1938 

TOLEDO Ray Tillman, '25, 2027 Bretton Place, Pres­
ident; Joe Wetli, '31, 717 Starr Avenue, 

Secretary. 
On a short stopover, John Hurley reports that Universal Notre Dame Night was fittingly and pleasantly ob­served in Toledo at the Commodore Perry. President Tillman and Secre­tary Wetli assembled some 20 of the initiate, who enjoyed some football films through Ahe Lockard, and other activities through other agencies. 
TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) George Uhlmeyer, '23, Peoples' Light Co., 
Moline. III., President: Elmer W. Besten, 
'27, i71I W. Sixth St., Davenport, Iowa, 
Secreiary. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) William G. Ycager, '34. 18 Vine St, Bing­
hamton, N. Y., President; James H. Hogan, 
'34, 62 Mary St., Binghamton, N. Y., Sec­
retary'. 
A special dinner meeting in Bing­hamton was held by the Notre Dame Triple Cities Club in observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. There was 100 percent attendance. A good time was had by all at Donnelly's Hote l immediately following the dinner. 
The keynote of the meeting was the recommendation of Rev. Joseph 
B. Toomey, Binghamton's district di­rector of Catholic Charities, that the club adopt a project of community endeavor in conjunction with its slate of activities. Father Toomey sug­gested that the members convene monthly to consider problems of the community and thus equip themselves to take active part in civic thinking and acting. 
The Rev. Francis B. Harrison, as­sistant pastor of St. Mary's Church and former student at Notre Dame, echoed Father Toomey's appeal in calling for united action of the laity in attacking community problems. AKchael L. Sullivan, postmaster of the city of Binghamton, and Robert McCabe, postmaster of Johnson City, were the other speakers. 
Bill Yeager, '34, was unanimously chosen president of the club for the coming year. Other officers named were Thomas Burke, '31, vice-presi­dent; Joseph Kane, '28, secretary; Jim Hogan, '34, corresponding sec­retary; and Jim Coleman, of Nor­wich, treasurer. 
Peter J. Wacks, '30, attorney, con­nected with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, has just completed a three - months' training period at Washington, D.C., and he is now sta­tioned at Los Angeles. 
Harold Desnoyer, '34, of Malone, is now a member of the North High faculty, here in the city, 
Francis O'Brien, '34, of Elmira, attorney, found time to come down for the meeting. Norwich, too, was 
May. 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
represented quite well with Robert Byrne, Jim Coleman, and Jim Cag­ney. 
Bill Hogan brought two prospec­tive Notre Dame students to the meeting. They were Bill Byrnes and John Donovan, both of this city. 
Some other members present were Bob McCabe, Jack Murpby, Joe Mc­Cormick, Don Kennedy, Joe Hunt, Ted GrifRn, Dr. Frank Conoie, Regis McNamara, Jack Wacks, Joe Knapp, Robert Lannon, Bill Page, Joe Chec­cia. 
Jim Hogan. 

TRI-STATE (Ind.-Ill.-Ky.) 
E. Brown Miller. '24, Southern Commercial 
Corp., Citizens Bank Bids.. Evansville. Ind.. 
President: Dr. Wm. J. Endrcss. '25. 301 
Grunt Street, Evansville, Ind., Secretary. 

TUCSON, ARIZONA 
Vincent Hcncesbach, e-t, "27, 1710 E. 2nd St.. 
Tucson, President; Ted A. Witz. ex. '29. Box 
628. Tucson. Sccrolnry. 
A small group of the fellows gath­ered on Universal Night at the home of Eddie Collins. The honor guest of the evening was Noble Kizer, who is spending some time with us this winter before going back to Purdue to handle the duties of athletic di­rector. 
Of course, Ed really has a very good radio, but the coast-to-coast program didn't reach this desert town very well. 
The evening was spent in quiet "gabbing" and, of course, couldn't be complete without some of the famous "Eeilly" stories. And so Chris gave us three of his best. 
We secured a projector from the Universitj' of Arizona and ran the pictures of the last Northwestem-Notre Dame game. The films were forwarded to us by Elmer Layden. Even though the weather here is get­ting warm, football always seems to be a good topic with the gang. 
Ted Witz. 

TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) Percy Wilcox, '23, Minneapolis General Elcc 
Co., Minneapolis, Minn., President; Arnold 
Klein. Jr.. '32, 1612 25th Ave,, No.. Minne­
apolis, Secretary. 

The annual Twin Cities Notre Dame Club dinner was held on Uni­versal Night at the Town and Coun­try Club in St. Paul. 
The dinner was attended by 75 members of the club and their friends. The principal speakers for the evening were Chief Justice Galla­gher, of the Minnesota Supreme Court, and Tom Gibbons, sheriiT of Ramsey County. The toastmaster for the occasion was the one and only Dan Coughlin of Waseca, Minnesota. 
iifter the banquet, an election of officers was held and the following were elected: Percy Wilcox, presi­dent; Frank Mayer, vice-president; Leon Moes, vice-president; Arnold Klein, Jr., secretary-treasurer. 
A. K, Sullivan. 

UTAH Raymond R. Brady. "24, 206 Kcams Bids.. 
Salt Lake City, President: Cyril Harbcckc, 
•19, 64 F. St., Salt Lake City, Secretary. 
UTICA, NEW YORK Dr. John F, Kelley, '22, Peoples Gas & Elec­
tric BIdt;,. President: Joseph W, Fullcm, 
•«1, 1621 Ncilson St.. Secretarj*. 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Paul Kennedy. '24, Tenipleton. Ind,, Presi­
dent; Emmett Ferguson. '32, Wallace Bids,, 
Lafayette, Ind.. Secretary. 
WASHINGTON. D. C Kohert Cavuunzh, '3(, 4450 ToIt« Plaee, 
N. W., President; Uarrxx A. ROIKII, Jr.. 
ex. '32, 1770 Calnmbia Bd., N.W.. ScctetaiT. 

Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in Washington with a full turn-out of the local alumni, their friends, and an imposing list of dis­tinguished guests. Thanks to the un­tiring efforts of Ambrose O'Connell, with the assistance of such stalwarts as Jim Hayes, Fred Wile, lice Gregg, Larry Maher, the officers, and others, the arrangements and setting for our program were perfect. 
There were 125 present at the din­ner for Father O'Hara in the Presi­dential Room of the Mayflower Hotel, and between 250 and 300 at the reception which followed. Father O'Hara spoke to the gathering pre­liminary to his broadcast over the nation-wide hook-up as did Bob Cav­anaugh, our president, and Ambrose O'Connell, toastmaster, who intro­duced the notables present, includ­ing such luminaries as Postmaster-General Farley, Bishop McNamara, Senators Van Nuys and Minton of Indiana, Representative Pettengill of South Bend, our own Representatives Harrington of Iowa and Clark of Idaho, Dutch Bergman, coach at Catholic University, Rip Miller of the Naval Academy, and a host of other well-knowns, representing the clergy and Washington officialdom. 
As to the actual program, a sound movie of Rodme was enthusiastically received, before commencement of the radio program. While the gath­ering listened attentively to the first part of the broadcast, microphones were being adjusted for the inspiring talk by Notre Dame's great president. Father O'Hara. The introduction 
This picture shows part of the large gatberlns which honored Kotre Dame in Washington. D.C. on Universal Ni^t. FaeinK the camera at the 
head table are, left to right. Senator Hinton, Bishop McNamara. James Farley. Bob Cavanaush, Father 0*Haia. Ambrose 0*Comid]. Bill Cotter. 
Father William Doheny. C,5,C. Senator Van Nuys and Jim Hayes. (See Washington club news for farther detiUls.) 
over the air waves was made by William E. Cotter, national president of the alumni. Last, but not least, was the dramatic manner in which Fred Wile and Senator Van Nuys ex­temporaneously filled in when wire trouble cut off the remainder of the program from South Bend. 
Our celebration marked the climax of a veiy active season for the Wash­ington Club. Our February dinner dance was an outstanding success, well attended, enjoyed by all (and beneficial to the treasurj')- Charlie Farris, assisted by a committee com­posed of Tom McKevitt, Bill Whalen, 
Dan Malloy, Leonard Krantz, Jim Hayes, Hugh Wall and Clay Johnson, was responsible for the fine style in which this event was put over. 
In the same efficient manner, Hugh Wall carried through an-angements for our Communion Breakfast on March 20. The Mass was offered at St. Patrick's Church, followed by an excellent breakfast at the famous Occidental. Andy Auth was in charge of the Memorial Mass for Knute Rockne on the anniversary of his death. Betiveen these events, have been frequent meetings of the club with fine turn-outs of the members, which have proved a source of enjoy­ment and good fellowship to all at­tending. 
Andy Auth, '34, is being married to Miss Nellie McCormick of this city on June 1. Ralph Zimmerman Was recently blessed with a son. Hugh Wall is another with wedding bells in the offing, while Paul Beretz and Bo Richards have already taken the marital step, within recent months. 
Murray Russell. 

WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
John Robinson, *28. 32 FanninEton Ave, President; James M. Illon&shnn, '27. 44 Ayer St., Secretary-

WEST VIRGINIA 
Hugli J. Loder. ex. '32. Cliarlcston, Presi­dent; John C-icldey, '37, 1521 Lee St, Charleston, Sccretarj'. 

Universal Notre Dame Night marked the occasion for the first an­niversary of our club. A short busi­ness meeting, at which the election of officers was held, preceded the ban­quet at the Hotel Ruffner. 
Hugh Loder, Jr., '30, was elected president; Jim Malloy, '30, the vice-president; and John Cackley, '37, the secretary-treasurer. 
President Loder acted as toastmas­

ter. Judge Arthur P. Hudson, '95, 
gave an interesting account of activi­ties at Notre Dame during the early '90's. Brief talks were also made by our retiring president, Vincent Reish­
man, and Jim Malloy. 
Others present were Virgil Latstet­

ter, Bemie Heitz, Joe Norton, Bill 
Kenney, John Grant Tompkins, and Walt Toussaint, Bill Kenney. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Hugh A. Gallagher, '30. 1501 McParland Road, Mount Lebanon, President: Donald Martin, '33, 204 S. Graham St., Pittsburgh, Secrctarj'. 

The Western Pennsylvania Club had a very successful Universal Notre Dame Night celebration. About 60 fellows attended the dinner at the P. 
A. A. and elected the new officers as follows: president, Hughie Gallagher; vice-president, John Ryan; secretai'y, Don Martin, and treasurer, Eddie O'Brien. 
Retiring President Turk Meinert and George Schill put on a very in­teresting 15-minute program on radio station KQV. 
John McSorley showed up with 

some interesting football movies, which evei-j'one enjoyed. After the movies evei-yone had a pleasant even­ing swapping tales about one another. We were very happy to have Bill Kern, Carnegie Tech coach, with us. 
-A. large crowd attended a requiem Mass for Rock on March 31. 
The activities during the past year were not manj', but the ones we held were very enjoyable and the Spirit of Notre Dame continues to thrive in the Pittsburgh district. 
Weekly luncheons are held at the Hotel Henrj', in the Rathskeller room. 
Bemie Conroy. 

WESTERN WASHINGTON 
Thomas E. Meade. '32. 3321 Cascadia Ave., Seattle, President; Ausust von Baccklin, '34, 74 East Road, Tacoma. Secretary. 

Notre Dame men from all over the state of Washington assembled in Se­attle at a dinner at the Washington Athletic Club for the annual observ­ance of Universal Notre Dame Night. It was probably the most representa­tive gathering of Notre Dame men in Washington that we have had in sev­eral years. They extended all the way down from Lawrence Schible, '05, to Maurice Schafer, '35, who drove up from Montesano. Other out­of-town Notre Dame men who at­tended %vere Morris Starrett, from Port Townsend, August von Baeck­lin, Tacoma, and M. C. Daviscourt, Shelton, Washington. 
A very welcome visitors was Jim Swift from Dallas, Texas, who hap­pened to be out on the coast and took the opportunity to meet several of his old friends at the dinner such as Frank Kirkland, '17, and T. M. Clif­ford, '13. 
Other well-known Notre Dame men at the dinner were: Jimmy Phelan, president of our club, John P. Eng­lish, George Britten, Leo J. Cam­mings, Francis E. Flannery, B. K. Groseclose, P. A. Heney, Jr., M. P. 
McDermott, E. L. Cochrane, Frank 
P. Denney, Thomas E. Meade, Rob­ert Piggott, F. W. Isherwood, Jr., Ed-, ward A. Riley, and Emmett G. Leni­han 
We enjoyed the national broadcast which started just as we sat down to dinner at 7:15. We, of course, were disappointed, as all Notre Dame men throughout the country, on account of the wire trouble which cut off part of the national broadcast. 
A feature of our local obser\'ance of Notre Dame Night was a program broadcast from Seattle over Station KEEN. Jimmy Phelan and Emmett 
G. Lenihan, president and secretary of the club, were interviewed. The familiar strains of th e "Victory March" and the "Hike Song" were also broadcast as a part of the pro­gram. But the real feature was the recording of Rockne's immorta l "Fight Talk." 
Thomas E. Meade was elected pres­ident, and August von Baecklin was elected secretary-treasurer for the coming year. Plans are being made by the new officers for a big meeting of Washington Noti'e Dame men for September. 
Emmett G. Lenihan. 

WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA Ralph Jorden. '26. Bridgeport. Ohio, Presi­dent; Leo J. Kletzly, '31, 10 Zone St.. Wheeling, Secretary. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Sister Elizabeth Scton, S.C., Saint Mary's 
College, Holy Cross, Ind., President; Sister 
M. Angelice, B.V.M., St. Joseph Convent, Mt. Carmel. Dubuque, Io\va, Secretary. 

YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran. *29, 1348 Quinn. President: Cliarles Cushwa, '31. 463 Madera Ave.. Secretary. 


Special 

BEAUMONT and PORT ARTHUR 
While neither Beaumont nor Port Arthur are organized clubs, recent visits to them by Rev. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C., and J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics, in the interest of the Rockne Memorial, place them in the club category in this issue. 
In Beaumont, Clyde Broussard led an alumn i delegation, through a meeting and other contacts on April 7, consisting of Clyde's brother, Joe, Burl Boyktn, Joe Hebert, Leo Mixson, Thomas Hughen, Henry Barry, Irwin LeBlanc and Alfred Duperier. 
In Port Arthur, Christy Flanagan led his interference, followed by Dick Braun, Leo Hannon and Emmet Rohwer. 
Father O'Donnell's term as presi­dent of St. Edward's, of course, made the Texas visit savor of homecoming for him, but Mr. Haley's first visit brought him back equally enthusiastic over the welcome accorded and the cooperation evinced for the Rockne Memorial. 
May, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 





THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Cecelia JaneshesM and George E. Murphy, '34, of Galesburg, Illinois. 
Miss Jean Borden and Robert F. Cook, '36, of Mishawaka, Indiana. 
Miss Clare AuU and Hugh E. Wall, Jr., '36, of Washington, D. C. 
Miss Audrie Peterson and Francis 

C. Wade, '36, of Howe, Indiana. 
Marriages 
Miss Albertina Kheta Cormier and Ernest Lawrence Landry, '26, were married, February 26, in Somers-ville, Connecticut. 
Sliss Winifred Ward and Frank J. Noll, Jr., '31, were married, Febru­ary 19, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Angela Marj' Brandl and Stanley J. Czapalski, '32, were mar­ried. May 7, in Norwood Park, Chi­cago. 
Miss Ann Marie Johnson and Jo­seph J. Dunn, '32, were married, November 25, in Buffalo, New York. 
Miss Irene A. Marmocha and Jo­seph T. Voegele, '34, Were married, February 20, in South Bend. 
Miss Dorothy R. Whittaker and Edmund Goldsmith, '37, were mar­ried, April 18, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Helen Burgess and Charles 

A. Sweeney, '38, were married, April 18, in Our Lady chapel of Sacred Heart church, Notre Dame. 

Births 
A son, Robert Hill, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Clyde A. Walsh, '21, of Campus, Illinois, on March 8. 
A son, Arthur Cotter, Jr., was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Arthur C. Shea, '22, on April 22, in Indianapolis. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Albert D. Castellini, '24, in Cin­cinnati. 
A daughter, Sharon Mae, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Mark Nolan, '24, of Duluth, Minnesota, on February 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. George A. Bischoff, '25, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Mary Anne, on March 9, in In­dianapolis. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Herman G. Centlivre, '25, on March 4, in Fort Wajme, Indiana. 
A son, Franklin, Jr., was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Franklin McSorley, '25, on August 1, in Pittsbui-gh. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Sirs. John W. Scallan, '25, on March 30, in Chicago. 
A daughter, Gretchen, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Francis T. Wallher, '25, March 8, in New York City. 
A son, Patrick, was bora to Mr. and Mrs. J. Norbert Gelson, '26, on October 19, in Brooklyn, New York. 
A son, Bartholomew Joseph, was bom to Jlr. and Mrs. Robert V. Dunne, '26, of San Francisco, on March 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Butler, '27, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, March 30, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Elmer F. Marchino, ex. '27, announce the biith of a daughter, Januaiy 27, in Indianapolis. 
Mr. and Mrs. Regis I. Lavelle, '27, announce the birth of a daughter, Carol Anne, on December 30, in Pittsburgh. 
Mr. and Mrs. Franklyn E. Doan, '29, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Maureen, on April 5, in Cleve­land Heights, Ohio. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Devere Plunkett, '30, on April 10, in South Bend, Indiana. 
A son, Alexander John Raymond, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Alejandro Rivera, '30, on March 24, in Santi­ago, Chile, South America. 
Mr. and Mrs. C. Clemens Theisen, '32, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Barbara Ann, on January 29, in Detroit. 
A son, William Luke, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. William L. Willigan, '32, on April 3, in Brooklyn, New York. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John T. Sexton, '33, on April 6, in Indianapolis. 
A son, Robert Lynn, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin F. Alexander, ex. '34, on March 10, in Los Angeles. 

Deaths 
Charles Vincent Meanwell, '15, who according to the alumni records, resided in Ypsilanti, Michigan, and woi'ked for the Detroit Edison Co., died on March 11. 
John Clair, '38, who would have taken his second year of law at Notre Dame this year, died in Chicago on March 6. While in Florida last sum­mer John suffered a severe sinus in­fection. As the result of that he had been bedfast in St. Elizabeth's hospi­tal, Chicago, since September. An outstanding student, John had an av­erage of 91.7 for his four years of work at Notre Dame. 
Death recently took three of the University's honorary alumni: Hon. Marcus A. Kavanaugh, LL.D. '05, Chicago; Most Rev. Thomas Charles O'Reilly, LL.D. '09, bishop of Scran­ton, Pennsylvania; Rt. Rev. Edward 
A. Pace, LL.D. '10, Catholic Univer­sity, Washington, D. C. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathy to Francis J. McGahren, '34, upon the death of his mother; Rob­ert Doran, '26, upon the death of his wife; Thomas Grimes, '34, upon the death of his father. 

Personals 
LOST ALUMNI! 

Alumni listed under Class headings are those to whom mail was sent at the accompanying address, from which it was returned with no for­warding address. The Alumni Office sends out tracer cards, to Club Sec­retaries, and to Postmasters. So the alumni listed are those for whom such tracers have not been returned. WHAT WE WANT ARE CORRECT MAILING ADDRESSES. Please co­operate in putting these men, many of them we believe interested and active, back on our mailing list. 
Before 1880 ,s«?"»^ »?•>• x. G. (M­
3faiZ waa returned ttnelatTHcd front addreaa 
given here. Alumni Office needs present

address. Please help—everybody. Sweeney, Edward. LL.B.. '74 
Box 873. Richmond, Virsinia 


The Notre Dame Alumnus May, 1938 
lARn.lR)^ Secretary: Prof. Robert M. XOOU XCKM Anderson. CirdevHle. Ohio. 

Oass of 1883 FIFTY-FIVE-yEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 

|aQg Secretary: Michael O. Bums. 338 S. lOOO g|,|^j,j st^ Hamilton, Ohio 
IQC*? IfiftA Secretary: J. L. Heineman. 1BB/-1000 Connersville. Indiana. 

Class of 1888 FIFiy-VEAR REUNION 
June 3, 4 and 5 

MaU icas returned unclaimed from addresses 
given here. Alumni OMcc needs present

addresses. Please help—cvcrvbody. 

Heiber. John lKn.atius. A.B., ^S^. A.JI.. '89 817 EliMbcth St.. Brownsiille. Te-tas 
Gibbs. Andrew P.. LUB.. 'SS 7806 A Essex Avenue. Chicaso. Illinois 
The presence of the Provincial, Eev. Jamss A. Bums, C.S.C., on the campus, assures the Golden Jubilee Class of 1888 a royal welcome. For the' first time, too, there are living and active a goodly percentage of the members of the 50-Year Class. If we don't have all of you back we'll be greatly disappointed. With the University celebrating the 50th anni­versary of the famous first games with Michigan, started in the illus­trious year of your graduation, how can you stay away? 
The Alumni Office was gladdened, as always, on St. Patrick's Day, with one of the bright and clever greet­ings from Eugene Melady, Omaha. 
From Secretarj' Pat Burke comes the following news of interest to the Class: 
"I had the pleasure of meeting Rev. James Bums, C.S.C., on his visit to New Orleans in March. He generally calls me up by phone about a half hour before he leaves the city, but this time I was fortunate to have him and Rev. Louis Kelly, C.S.C., of Sacred Heart Church at lunch at our famous restaurant, Antoine's. He had the opportunity of tasting Craw­fish Bisque, Oysters Rockefeller, Pompano Papiotte, Potato Souffle, Tomato a la Julius Caesar, Baked Alaska and Cafe Brelau. There were plenty of pleasant memories and ex­changes of stories of our school days together. . . . The writer expects to leave New Orleans in time to sail out of New York June 2, for England, where he will meet his daughter Mar­garet . . . We will then make a two months tour of the Continent and re­turn to the British Isles for a month before leaving for Glasgow, sailing from there to reach Boston about September 12 " 
Mr. Biirke entertained the N.D. 

Club at his home on U.N.D. Night, as j'ou ivill note under the Louisiana-Mississippi Club news. 
1889 Secretary: P. E. Burke. 301 Camp New Orleans. Louisiana. 
1890-1893 Secretary: Louis P. Chute. 7 Univ. Ave, Minneapolis, Minn. 


Oass of 1893 FORjy-FIVE-yEAR REUNION 
June 3, 4 and 5 

'93 observes its 45th Reunion. There's a class with distinction, with active members. Yet Prof. Ed Maur­us, optimistic for lo these 44 years and 11 months, is threatened with a reversal of form. So if Jim McKee, Earl Brown, Tim Ansberry, and a lot of others don't appoint Prof. Maurus the local chairman and give him your orders by return mail, there'll be two pessimists on the campus as far as '93 is concerned. 
1894 Sccretarj-: Hueh A. O'DonncIl. 1 W. S7th St., New York City. 
Mail ipas returned unclaimed from addresses given ttcrc. Alutnni OSiec needs present addresses. Please hclp—cvcrybodi/. 
Carney. Francis Louis. Litt.B. 322 E. 121st St, New York City Schillo, Frederick John, B.S. 925 Southern Pacific Bids.. Houston, Texas 
The National Defenders and the Paul Revere movement which swept the country in early April was not without its Notre Dame celebrity. Presiding at the giant focal mass-meeting in New York on April 5, ac­cording to newspaper reports, was Hugh A. O'Donnell, former president of the Association. 
1895 Secretary: Eustace CuUinan, Sr., 860 Fhelan Bld^., San Francisco, Calif. 
Mail was returned unclaimed from address [liven here. Alavini OSiec needs presentaddress. Please help—everybody. 
Onzon, Frank J., LL.B. 7 C.C. Nafl Bk. Bldg., Corpus Christ!, Tex. 
1896 Secretary: William P. Bums, 327 Willard Ave.. Michigan City, Indiana. 
1897 Secretary: Rev. J. A, MacNamara. St. Jos. Sanitarium, M t Clemens, Mich. 
MaU Kos returned unclaimed from address given here. Alumni OSiee needs presentaddress. Please help—everybody. 
Keilly. Thomas Burke. A.B. Falls Village, Connecticut 
1898 Secretary: William C. Keglcr, 9th & Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 

FORTV-yEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 

'98 has been quiet about any plans for the 40th Reunion. But if Bill Kegler would get in touch with Frank Herin^, a customs-built local chair­man, the Alumni Office foresees an­other hot time in the old time. 
1899 Secretary: Dr. Joseph F. Duanc. 4T8 Jefferson Blvd., Peoria, HL 
A note from Dr. Joseph Duane includes among other things the news of a recent trip to Mexico. There he visited Eduardo Hay, ('01, Mexico's foreign minister). Doc reported that the foreign minister recalled with de­light his days at Notre Dame; that he was working with the government from day to day and is one official trusted by the intelligentsia; that he has a son in Lyons, France, studying medicine, and a daughter just mar­ried. Doc also said that in Mexico City the churches were open and there was Mass at least once a week. 

1900 
MaU  icas  returned  unclaimed  from  address  
ffivcn here. Alumni Office needsaddress. Please hclp—cvcrybodij­ present  
Monahan.  William  P., LL.B.  

2410 Lawrence Avenue, Chicaffo, Illinois 

1901 Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan, 1300. 139 N. aark St., Chicago. HI. 
Mail teas returned unclaimed from addresses given here. Alumni Office needs present addresses. Please help—everybodif. 
Gallagher. Edward Peter. LL.B. 811 Lincoln Bldg., Philadelphia, Penna. Locke. John Clyde. LL.B. 213 Center Street, Misbawaka, Indiana 
Friends of the Rev. John Farley, 

C.S.C. (and who isn't?) will be pleased to learn that he is back on the campus after his trip to Mayors. And from his headquarters in the stu­dent infirmary, and from the seats of various vehicles readily enlisted, he has resumed coaching the various sports on the campus. 
1902 Secretary: C. C. Mitchell. 110 S. Dearborn St., Box 3. Chicago, HI. 
MaU was rcttimed unclaimed from' addresses given here. Alumni Office needs present addresses. Please help—everybody. 
Grimmins. Timothy C., LL.B. 130 N. Main Street, E. St. Louis, Illinois Lippman, Oscar. LL.B. Beverly Hills, California Krug. Albert Louis, Litt.B. 611 S. Ardmorc, Los Angeles. California Meyer, Frederick William, LL.B. 123 W. 14th Place, Los Angeles, Calif. Shea. Dr. William Albert Litt.B. 581 E. 22nd Street. Portland, Oregon 
1903 Secretary: Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co, Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis. 

THIRTy-FIVE-YEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 

MaU icas returned unclaimed from addresses given here. Alumni Office needs present addresses. Please hdp—everybody. 
Davitt. Harold Hush. I.L.B. Adrian. Michigan Kigprins. William Patrick. LI1.B. 42 Grove Street. Boston, Massachusetts O'Grady. P. W.. C.E. 201 Phoenix Buildinf:, Minneapolis. Minn. 
Don't sit there waiting for an in­vitation. The class secretary and the local representatives in South Bend and on the campus, have been play­ing modest until the office expects the class to go up on June 3-4-5 with spontaneous combustion. So you fel­lows like Frank Barry, Bobby Lyncb, Jobn Dnbbs, Harry Crumley, Frank McKeever, Frank Petritz, et al, who wouldn't miss a Commencement like this, just go ahead and pack. If Fatbers Matt Walsh and Carrico and 
May. 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
distinguished townsman Vitus Jones can't run the three rings after you get here, report to the Alumni Office, 
1904 Secretary: Robert Proctor, Monger Bids., Klkhart, Indiana. 
MaU was resumed uTuJaimcd from, addresses given here. ^Wtnrntt 0£ice Ticcds presentaddresses. Please help—evcrybod]/. 
Furlong. Nicholas Raymond, LL.B. Presho, South Dakota Kasper. Fred Joseph, Fh.B. Elkhart, Kansas. 
1905 Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. x^^j^ LaSalle St.. Chicago, HI. 
MaU was returned unclaimed front addresses given here. Alumni O^co needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
O'Connor, John Joseph, LL.B. Delphi, Indiana 
Schwab, Edward Herman. LL.B.. LL.AI. 50 Broad Street, New York Qty 
1906 Secretary: Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen BIdg., Spokane, Wash. 
190T Secretary: Hev. Thomas E. Burke. CSX., Notre Dame. Ind. 
MaU xcas returned •unelaimcd from address given here. Abimni OSiec needs presentaddress. Please help—everybody. 
Joyce. "Walter L., LL-B. 382^ Rokeby Street, Chicago, Illinois 
1908 Secretary: Frank X. Cull, Bulkley Building. Cleveland, Ohio 

THIRTy-YEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 

MaU iwM returned unclaimed from addresses given here. ^lumnt OSicc needs •presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Derrick. Francis, A.B. G23 S. Wabash Avenue, Ciiicaso, Ulinois Munson. Francis Elmer, LL.B. Mendota, Illinois Waldorf, Kufus William, M.E., E.E., '09 40 Greenlcaf St., Rochester, New York The Class must have mistaken their "30" Reunion numerals for the print­er's "30" — the forms aren't closed. Get in on June 3-4-5 with Frank Cull and find out how young you are after three decades. 
1909 Secretary: E. P. Cieary, Notre l>ame, Indiana. Frank C. Walker accepted Cardinal Hayes' invitation to act as treasurer of the Catholic Charities fund, the campaign for which was extended from March 27 to April 4. 
1910 Secretary: Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 1900 Euclid Ave., Gevcland, Ohio, 
MaS was returned unclaimed from addresses given here. Alumni Ofiee needs presentiiddresscs. Please hdp—eoeryhodfj. 
Cahill, James Leo, LL.B. 629 S. Wabash Ave,, Chicago, HI. Guteirrez, Jose Mieuci, C.E. Arcquipa, Peru, South America 
1911 Secretary: Fred Steers, 1666 First National Bank Bldg,., Chicasjo. III. 
Mail icas returned unclaimed from addresses given here. Alumni OSiec needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybodu. 
Arnold, William Simpson. M.E, 267 S. Clairmont Ave., Springfield, Ohio Fish, James Leo. I,itt.B. 73 Chestnut St, North Arlington, N. J. O'FIynn. Jamea B., LL-B. 1127 Fifth Ave.. Helena. Montana Patterson, Jr.. Guillermo. Ch.E.. M.S.Ch.'12. Via Tirso 49, Rome. Italy Ph.D.'12 Zimmer, Henry Joseph, B.S.BioI. 205 N. Oak Ave.. Millvalc, Pa. 
Clemen* I~ Ulatowiki has been electe d president of the South 
THREE GENERATIONS of NOTRE DAME MEN 

-ryiLLIAM P. O'NEILL, LL3., '06. has been 
*^' prominent in Indiana journalism and pol­itical circles for many years, having been lieu­tenant governor of the state and more recently state securities commissioner. Ronald S. O'Neill. LL.B., '14, is an advertising executive in Detroit, with MacManus, John and Adams. The third generation on the campus now is William Ronald O'Neill, freshman in A.B.. who is day-dogging this year from the grandpatemal homestead in Mishawaka. There have been other prominent memb ^ of this prominent family 
both nt Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
Chicago Bar -Association, Fred Steer* writes. Fi'ed also reports that Chet Freeze was in on a business trip from California, where Fred says he has gone native even to his business, orange juice. 
1912 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St.. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
MaU iras returned unclaimed from addresses given here. Atttmni Ofjice needs presentaddresses. Plctise hclp~~everybody. 
Cunning, Patrick H., LL.B., LL.M., '13 Potter Title & Trust Co., Pittsburgh. Pa. Gonzales. Carlos Amador. S.KE.. S.M.E.'13 
Huanueo. Peru. South America 

Keys. Albert Hcuser, E.E. Lawton, OkLihoma Martin. Joseph A., B.S.Biol. ,'i2-10 Winthrop Ave.. Chicago. III. McBride. Francis Bernard. LL3.. Ph.B,. "14 Franklin Hotel, Aliquippa. Pa. McGarry. William Everett. VL.B.. Litt.B..'ll SOS North 25th St. Boise, Idaho Stewart Frederick James. C.E. Box 24, Centerville. Iowa 
B. J. Kaiser, who you ^W11 remem­ber made the 25th last June such a success, is willing to take it on the other cheek. He says he hasn't re­ceived any news from the class since that epochal occasion, but that if you have recovered and want to come back with him this June, he'll try to arrange a little private get-together. 
1913 Secretary: James J. Devitt 921 En­gineers' B!dg„ Cleveland, Ohio. 

f TWENTY-RVE-yEAR REUNION 1 I June 3, 4 and 5 j 
MaU was returned unclaimed from addresses given here. Alumni Office needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Lahey, Charles Wm., C.E. 228 N, LaSalle St, Chicago, 111. Rubio, Ramon Garcia, S.E.E,, M.E.'14 Santiago, U de Los Vegas. Cuba Saravia. Augustine G.. C.^ CaMe de MIgrete No. 47, Durango. Mexico Stum, Leo A., C.E. General Delivery, Joliet III. By this time, you have received a letter from Rev. Alan Hei*er, CS.C., who has consented to make local ar­rangements for the 25th, assisted by Paul Byrne and the "day-dogs." But the arrangements depend on yotir ac­knowledgment of Father Heiser's re­quest. Do this, and you'll have a Sil­ver Jubilee you won't forget Jim Devitt can relay the word, in case at this late date you get orthodox enough to write the Class Secretary. 
1914 Scwetary: Frank H. Hayes. 406 Bank of America Bldg.. Anaheim. Cal. 
MaU teas returned nndaimed from addresses given here. Alumni O0ee needs presentaddresses. Plcnse hdp—everybody. 
Newning. SJ).. Ph.B. 
317 Third St, Corpus Christ!. Texas Regan. George Joseph, E.E. 
313G M. Parkside, Chicago, HI. 

Jim Sanford'* missionary work for the CS.C. missionaries found a cor­rollary in a letter from Simeon Flan­agan, who rushed to the defense of his own CS.C. mission in St. Jean Baptiste Church, New York City. Be­tween these two alert alumni, the ALUMNUS may yet wrest from the famous Mission Band an advance sheet on its trips so that vaoie of our alumni can enjoy this spiritual bond with Notre Dame. 
Gus Dorais and Frank Thomas, '23, were among the coaches listed for the seventh annual Purdue football clinic on April 8-9. Mai Elward, foot­ball coach was in charge, while Noble Kizer was still away because of ill health. 
Ray Miller, supreme director of the Knights of Columbus, was booked for a talk to the Rochester, New York, Council, at a Communion breakfast March 27, according to a newspaper account from that city. 
1915 Secretary: James E. Sanford, 1524 F.irwcll Ave., ChicaRO, 111. 
Mail was rctumtd ttnctahncd from addresses aivcn here. Alumni OSicc needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Bums, Steven Emmett, E.E. 55G W. Monroe St., Chicaeo, 111. Farren, William Edward, S.E.B. 2116 Kenrock Kd., Cleveland Hts., i)hio Jones. Capt. Keith K.. M.E. 
C.O John H. Tolan, Chester, Calif. 

Pid, Edward Fyans, Ph-B. 2919 Pine Grove Ave., Chicago, III. 
Jim Sanford is doing his best to keep track of '15 between the At­lantic and the Great Lakes. He is back in Chicago now, so note the new address if you intend to startle him with a letter. 
You'll catch Dick Dunn under "Spotlight Alumni" this issue. 
1916 Secretary: Timothy P. Galvin, First Trust Bldg.. Hammond, Ind. 
Man nms returned unelaimed from addresses given here. Alumni OfUce needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Carroll, Leonard SI., LL.B. c-o Allerton House, Cleveland Finch. Wihner Otis. Ph.B.Joum. 12223 Winfield, N. W., Detroit, Mich. Foley, James William. Ph.B. 6428 N. Oakley Avenue, Chicago, 111. Gonzalez. Manuel Jose. LL.B. 120 O'Reilly St., Havana, Cuha Kinc, Hollis Edward, LL.B. 1427 Havenhurst Drive. Hollywood, Calif. Lanahan, Logan Anthony, S.Com. 405 E. 22nd St, Indianapolis, Ind. Mootz, Charles Peter, E.E. GalHtin, Missouri Salazar, Emtlio Raphael, C.E. Bucna Vista, Columhia. Marlanao, Cuha 
1917 Secretary: Edward J. McOsker, 104 
S. Union St., Elgin, HI, 

MaU urns returned ttnclaivted from addresses given here. .-Uumni Office needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Carey, Francis Jeremiah, Ph.B, 2 McMaster St., Bath. New York Cleary. Harold James, M.E. 
R.R. 8, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin CoyJe, Arthur James, B.S. Boston Navy Yard. Boston, Mass. Dorais, Joseph E., LL.B. 1435 Martha Wash'ton Dr., Wauwatosa, Wis. Kirkland, Francis Monroe, LL.B. 6529 Latonia Ave., Seattle, Wash. Quinlan, Daniel Joseph, LL.B. 
52 Hallinbeck Ave., Geneva, N. Y. Sylvestre. Edmond Eugene, LL.B. 
C.O Washhum Croshy Co., Chicago, Bl, 

Weiland, Paul Edward. E.E. 1001 Wyandotte Bids., Columbus, Ohio 
IQIS Secretary: John A. Lemmer, 1110— 8th Ave. Escanaba, Mich. 

TWENTY-yEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 

Mail tpos rctamcd nru^aimrd from addresses given here. Alumni OSiee needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Clark. Earl James, Ph.B,Com. Philadelphia, N. Y. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Delaney, Harold Richard. LL.B. Tyler. Te-ias HefTeman. Bernard Daniel, LL.B. Mayflower Hotel, Washington, D.C. Lopez, Bernardo, LL.B,. A.M. Bacnotan. La Union, P. I. Manning, Norbert Gerhardt, B.Arch. 1016 Ir\vin St., Knos\-iUe. Tenn. Wallace. James Gordon, Ph.B. Addison, New York 
Pete Ronchetti ^^Tites from Lille, France, that he is coming back for the 20th. 
Art May just put over a whale of a big Shriners convention. 
Father George Holderith is golf coach and in charge of the IS-hole Universitj' Course. 
John Lemmer is worrjnng about you and has Father Frank Boland out from under the department of discipline this year just to help you enjoy the Reunion. 
Add all those items up, and pack your grip to be here June 3-4-5. Pete is expecting to meet you here when he comes in after years abroad. The 
C.S.C. members of the class can guar­antee you a real treat on the campus, and the South Bend delegation are taking on a Grover Whalen fi'ont for the occasion. All you have to do is be here. Drop Father Boland a note if you're coming. It'll make it easier to have enough spoons. 
2919 Secretary; Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street, Gary, Indiana. 
Mail was returned unclaimed from addresses given here. .Mnmni OSicc needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Hosking, James Willard, Ph.C. Waukcgan, 111. Lindemann, Joseph Francis. M.E. Euclid Ave. & E. 83rd St , Cleveland, Ohio 
1920 Secretary: Leo B, Ward, 1012 Black BIdg., lios Anecles, Calif. 
MaU ivas returned unclaimed from addresses given here. Alumni OSice needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Doner, James Patrick, Ph.B.F.C. 53 Elmwood Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. Henchan, Jr„ P. V., C.E. 8128 Calumet Ave., Chicago, HI. McMahon. Edw.ird C, LL.B. 626 S. Spring St, Los Angeles, Calif. Smith, Delbert Dexerou.'c, LL.B. 2115 E. 67th St, Chicago. Ill, 
Leo Ward, your able secretary, 

comes crashing through with some 
elegant dope after a lot if intensive 
spade work by letter. He says: 
"Joseph Patrick O'Hara, attomey­at-law, Glencoe, Minnesota, from his letter appears to be the county attor­ney of McLeod Countj', Minnesota. I am still wondering how they got all those Scotch names and an Irish county attorney in Minnesota. In any event Joe writes in pirt as follows: 
" 'I was delighted to run into Gene Kennedy when he was here for the Notre Dame-Minnesota game. He was the same Gene and I was most re­gretful that I did not have more time to talk with him. I assume that yon see A] Scott quite frequently, and I wish that you would say "hello" to both AI and Gene for me, and to any of our old friends you happen to see in California.' 
May, 1938 

" 'I am interested in knowing that you have a family. I don't know whether it was your modesty which prevented you from telling me the number, or whether it was embarrass­ment, or what. Anyway, I have three boys, who keep me going. The oldest is as large as I am, and twice as tough, and has reached the mature age of 15 years.' 
" 'I have had occasion to see Dick Leslie of Waverly, Iowa, and Dick is doing exceptionally well, is a very fine lawyer, and has a lovely family. I went back to Notre Dame for the Southern California - Notre Dame game last fall but did not get to see even Ed Doran of South Bend, and saw very few whom I knew outside of Father O'Hara and some of the coaches.' 
"Johnny Balfe seems to be, accord­ing to his letterhead 'The John T. Balfe Co., 51 East 42nd Street, New York,' engaged in the business of providing 'annuities, pension pro­grams, retirement plans and estate taxes.' He writes: 
" 'After all these years, it seems that it was necessary to call a "flood" in order to make all native sons con­scious that there was an eastern sea coast? I well remember Joe Scott's Commencement address, wherein he stated that if Columbus had landed on the Pacific, New York would still be a wilderness.' 
" 'We have so many fellows in and out of New York, that it is difficult to keep up with them, but there are a few natives like Larry Doyle and Red Douglas (erstwhile fancy high jumper), who are always in eridenee at football or basketball games.' 
" 'I see Dick Hyland frequently, and the next time you come to New York, just look over the Tri-Borough Bridge, the West Side Highway and the Park Development on Long Is­land, if j'ou want to see some of Dick's work. His firm of Madigan & Hyland are the consulting engi­neers for the Park Commission.' 
" 'I hear from Joe Gargan when­ever he comes down from Boston, and his is the same "genial Joe." ' 
" 'You probably remember Charlie Call, the miler, Frank Mulligan, the 100-yard dash man. Rock used to say that Mulligan was the greatest 100-yard dash man for 90 yards. Well, both now have a pronounced center of gravity, or their chests have slipped, or what have you.' 
" 'I had a letter the other day from Maury Smith atVillanova. Maury claims he called me several times when he was in New York, but you may remember a few of his old "subway habits." But he really is do­ing a swell job here in the East, and will probably play in the Rose Bowl in a year or two.' 
May, 1938 
" 'There are a great number of re­cent Notre Dame graduates that I could tell you about, but I will leave that to other class secretaries to extol their glory.' 
" 'I would suggest, however, that you get your Los Angeles Club to or­ganize a "Placement Bureau" for young graduates, and also a Scholar­ship Fund. We have done that very successfully here, and although most of the burden of getting jobs for men has fallen to me, we have placed at least 10 men during the last 10 months. The most recent was Charles Litty of Syi-acuse. We were able to land a position for him with the Singer Sewing Machine Company in Argentine. As I spent three years in Buenos Aires myself immediately after graduation, I was somewhat envious when his steamer sailed from New York several weeks ago.' 
"Larry Larrazolo wrote from Al­buquerque, New Mexico, whei-e, ac­cording to his letterhead, he is engaged in the business of petroleum geologist. He writes as follows: 

" 'Mrs. Harry Nesler called me while I was out of town but I re­turned the next day and tried every­where to get in touch with her but failed. I left several messages for her at her hotel but did not hear from her again.' 
" 'Notre Dame is not very well represented on the Notre Dame alum­ni rolls. About the only contact we have with the old place is the indirect glory of her football teams. Few people here seem to realize that it is primarily an institution of learning. This, of course, is quite natural since her most publicized activities are those on the field of athletics. There are a few Noti'e Dame men in the 
state, and a little later on I shall send you a brief resume of their activities.' 
" 'As regai'ds mine there is little of interest to tell. For several years I was engaged in the practice of my profession in Mexic o and South America. Most of the time I was with Pan American Petroleum and 
Transport Company, the old E. L. Doheny concern. I had the good for­tune of being placed in charge of the geological department. My duties carried me all over Mexico, parts of Central America, and Venezuela and Columbia in South America. In 1927 the Standard of Indiana acquired control of the company and that gave me the oppojtunity of quitting for­eign work of which I was tired. I returned to this country and estab­lished an office in San Antonio, Texas, where I remained for t^vo years and was quite successful. The lure of the mountains where I was reared, cou­pled with exceptionally good possibil­ities for oil development in the state and family considerations, brought me back to New Mexico in 1929. To­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
gether with millions of others in this country I took the count that year. Since, it has been a slow climb back, but, like every one else, I am coming out of the daze and once more get­ting on my feet.' 
" 'I still have sufficient faith in the future of the country to acquire a little place in the country, three miles out of the city, and take the matri­monial plunge on the 15th of Janu­ary of this year. I married Helen Sievert of this city, and together we are caiTying on a few experiments in dirt farming as a hobby and are seri­ously considering attempting small scale experiments in chemical farm­ing. The man principally responsible for the present development of the latter kind lives in your city, so we may be down your way one of these days to investigate.' 
" 'For a living I depend on consult­ing work — which is not so hot at present — and missionaiy work in getting outside capital for oil devel­opment in the state. We have mar­velous natural resources here, partic­ularly in mining and oil. What we need most of all is capital which is sadly lacking here.' 
" 'This, in a nutshell, is the story of my activities since I left the old Alma Mater. It is not one of bril­liant success but it has been lots of fun.' 

"Don Kennedy, who may be re­membered as the prize mandolin player of the Banjo Club (if that makes sens(j), and the anchor man of the championship Corby Hall relay team, wi'ites from Binghamton, New-York, where, according to his letter­head, it is Donald M. Kennedy, The D-0 Agency, Inc. Don's letter fol­lows: 
" 'Your letter of March 1 received. It was indeed a pleasure to hear from you and recall to mind the happy days enjoyed in good old Corby Hall. Lots of water has gone over the dam since that time, but I am happy to say I am in good health and enjoying life.' 
" 'I was in Florida dm-ing the boom from 1923 to 1927 and was instru­mental in organizing a Notre Dame Club there. Have been back in Bing­hamton since that time and was mar­ried in 1929 to a girl from Washing­ton, D. C, whom I met in Miami. Sorry to say as yet we have no young Kennedys to enroll at Notre Dame or St. Mary's. I have been in the in­surance business since my return from Florida and, while I cannot say that business is rushing, I cannot complain too much.' 
" 'I very seldom see any of the boys who were at Notre Dame around 1920. However, Father James W. Connerton, C.S.C., whom you no doubt remember, is one of that time 
205 
with whom I come in very close con­tact. He is now novice master at Rolling Prairie, Indiana, and I usually see him during the summer months when he is home on vacation. You will recall that he roomed with your namesake, Leo Ward, who is also a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross.' 
" 'I usually take in the Notre Dame-Army game as that is about the only game which is played in the East.' 
" 'Some years ago I met another alumnus of Notre Dame, whom you possibly know, Al Scott. I understand he is now a judge in Califomia. Also met his sister, Mary, when they were visiting friends here in Binghamton, and I surely did enjoy meeting both of them.' 
" 'Am leaving for New York on business and am going to look up Alden Cusick, the old drummer boy, who is located in New York City in the same building in which our home office is located.' 
" 'How is your cousin, Ott. I often think of the good old mandolin club. -\s a matter of fact I have that old picture which was taken during the heydey and get quite a chuckle when I look at it.' 

"Paul Conaghan writes from Chi­cago that he regrets that he has 'no news which would be of interest to the alumni.' 
"Lyle Musmaker has written from Greenfield, Iowa, as follows: 

" 'I am more or less isolated from my classmates and other alumni, sit­uated as I am in the old home-town. I am, therefore, glad to learn of the anticipated pick-up in class news. For months at a time, my only contact vnth them is through the columns of the .4.LTIMNUS, and I have frequently been disappointed to find the 1920 class news a blank. I'll do my share in keeping it up, though my personal situation limits my opportunities.' 
" 'The Des Moines Alumni club, my nearest connection, is non-func­tioning except at rare intervals.' 
" 'Of my old pals, the only ones I have been able to keep in touch with are Paul Conaghan and Tom Beacom in Chicago. When Father Tom Tobin comes east from Portland, the four of us generally get together in Chi­cago, and everybody comes in for a good lambasting. I have been able to keep in touch with Johnny Powers, of Cleveland, and his family. They stop in Greenfield over night on their trips west to visit Father Tom Tobin, and we have a great session. You will recall Powers married Tom To­bin's sister, Carolyn, and she knows more about the 1920 class than any one I know of, including her husband. I saw Red Douglas in N.Y.C. last September when I went in to the 
Legion convention. I hope to see you at the next one, in L.A. this fall, if there are not too many court conflicts here. Conaghan is still practicing law in Chicago. Beacom is still at the trust department of the First Na­tional Bank in Chicago. Powers is in the real estate business in Cleveland.' 
" TTou mentioned my brother, Lou. He is practicing law in Oakland, Cal­ifornia, 1111 Easton Building, and seems to be doing all right. Has been located there now about seven years.' 
" 'You ask for a statement of ac­complishments since leaving N. D. In a small town like this, any profes­sional man is more or less a public servant. You remember the good Fa­thers at school used to tell us not to spend all our times trying to hoard riches but to make our home com­munities better places in which to live. They didn't need to give me that advice. I have been forced to it. I have remained poor, and spend con­siderable time in public service. Just to give you an idea of some of the high-spots: city mayor; president. Community Service Club; count y chairman. Republican party; have held every commandership in the American Legion up to state com­mander. By this I mean post, county, district, and state-vice; citj"^ attorney; etc' 
" "Have remained single and have no prospects. Pretty well contented with my lot in life; probably too much so.' 
"From Frank J. Clohessy I learn that he is practicing law in Waverly, New York. It also appears that he is district attorney of that thriving me­tropolis. He promises to gather some news and send it in at an early date. He writes, in part, as follows: 
" 'At a recent meeting in Chicago, Willis Donnelly, a Wisconsin attor­ney, told about one for Eipley at my expense. Dick Leslie was in our class of 1920. He and I were in Corby Hall. Dick is now practicing law at Waverly, Iowa. The writer is en­gaged in the same work at Waverlv, New York.' 
"Tom Beacom reports from Chi­cago: 
" 'I have no news of the class of 1920 except of T. J. Tobin, D.D., with whom I still manage to carry on somewhat desultory, but none the less stimulating, correspondence. Occa­sionally he gets back to this part of the country from Oregon and re­sumption of our erstwhile Damon-Pythias understanding is always easy. Paul Conaghan continues to progress in the law and is annually adding ad­ditional cubits to his stature as a modem Gulliver by trips abroad. J. Lyle Musmaker annually treks to the American Legion conventions, and in passing always manages to spend a few unconventional hours in Chi­cago.' 
" 'Walter J. Douglas caught me getting the roof of my mouth sun­burned in New York, looking at the top of the Chrysler Building, and in­troduced me to his charming wife as his "rustic friend from Oklahoma." The sad news of Lucien Locke's un­timely death last December has al­ready appeared in the AXTJMNTJS. Moore, E. M. continues in South Bend, dishing out the dope with his quondam accuracy and emphasis. John Powers, each Christmas, orig­inates in Cleveland some novel greet­ing card for the standard manufac­turers to env}"-. Harold Foley com­mutes from "Vancouver, B. C. to Flor­ida with greater ease than the aver­age person can pack an over-night bag for a week-end in the country.' 
" 'For these and all the other friends I cannot presently remember, you may find space in j'our notes. Life has dealt rather kindly with the few men from school that I most fre­quently see, and neither time nor the New Deal seems to have made appre­ciable dent in their respective armors. All seem well equipped with what it takes to surmount the usual obstacles to the pursuit of liberty and happi­ness, and no doubt some of them will respond to your inquiry more in­formatively than I have.' 
"Father Patrick Maguire writes from St. Vincent de Paul Church, Murray, Utah, where he has been for a number of years as pastor. He writes, as follows: 
" 'The few black hairs I possessed at the time of our last meeting have yielded to the general snow-white condition. Such is the result of our work in this missionary diocese high up in the Rockies. No need to tell you about the state, however! 
" 'I am trying to keep the faith and help our few scattered Catholics keep theirs in spite of difficult sur­roundings. For nearly 13 years I have been pastor here where I built a little church and another in a mis­sion five miles away at Midvale. There is nothing sensational about my work. I have had to do every possible kind of a job—cook, wash clothes, paint, pour concrete, carpen­try work, as well as the regular work of a priest. My health was not quite equal to the task, however. Two years ago I was forced to take a leave of absence for 11 months, most of which I spent in Ireland. I manage to get back to Notre Dame occasion­ally. On my return from Ireland a year ago I spent several days there— saw the AU-American basketball in action. Had dinner with Mr. and Mrs. Gene O'Toole, '20, in St. Joseph, Michigan, and was most hospitably treated by everyone connected with our Alma Mater.' 
" 'I have been an officer of our local Notre Dame Club since it was started, but I assure you the duties are not very arduous. Graduates are few here, and, sad to relate, many of them do not seem to be interested. Some day I will send you particulars of the few we have. There are none of '20.' 
" 'In fine, God has blessed my mis­sionary efforts here to a marked de­gree. To Him and to all the loyal friends throughout the land who have helped us keep the flag flying I breathe a fervent — Thank You!' " 
1921 Secretary: Dan W. Duffy, leOO Ter­minal Tower. Geveland. Ohio. 
MaU IPOS returned unclahncd from addresses given here. Alumni OSicc needs presentaddresses. Please heip—everybody. 
Colgan, Alexander Johnston, Ph.B. 154 Kassau St., New York City Davis, Charles F.. Ph.B.Com. 245 W. 61st St., New York City Lally. Lenihan L., B.SJ^gric. General Delivery, Des Moines, Iowa 
Frank E. Coughlin Was chairman of a Republican pre-primary rally on April 7. His appointer, by the way, was county chairman Edwin W. Hun. ter, '19. Both tickets are full of alumni in St. Joseph County, so don't mistake this for a political note— the primary will be over anyhow. 
1922 Secretary: Gerald Ashe, Buffalo Ath­letic Qub, Buffalo, New York. 
MaU ivaa returned unclaimed from addresses ffivcn here. Alumni OSicc needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Behan. Joseph Bernard, Arch.B. 210 Deyo St.. Jackson. Mich. Bolton, Paul Lcroy, Ph.G., B.S.Phar. "24 2515 Berwyn, ChicaKO, III. Brady. John Paul, LUB. Vapcehurg. Ky. Cochrane, Edward Lambert, Litt.B, 753 Belmont Place, Seattle, Wash. Hosan, James Wm., LittB, Kewanee, HI. Holton. James Barry, Ph.B. Dallas, Texas Schiavone, Anthony Joseph, LIj,B. 6350 N. Washtenaw, Chicaso. HI. Schwertley. Paul J.. LL.B. 1304 Everett Ave,, Louisville, Ky, Vallez, Arthur Henry, Ch.E. Neuilly, France Younff.- Daniel Houston, C.E. 1 Crosby Place, Patcrson, N. J, Zachar, Frank S., Ph.G., Ph. C '23 620 Bliss Rd., Qeveland, Ohio 
1923 Secretary: Paul H, Castner, 17 Cor­nell Road, West Hartford, Conn. 

FIREEN-yEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 

MaU was rettimcd unclaimed from addresses ffiven here. Alumni OSicc needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Chesnow, Louis, B.Arch. 2122 E. Lamed, Detroit. Mich. . Collins. Elmer Joseph. Ch.E. 5316 N. Winthrop Ave.. E. Chicatro, Ind. Conley, Jr.. William J., Ph.B.For.Com.'23 Firestone Tire & Rubber Co., Akron. Ohio FitzKerald, James Edward, Ph.B.Com. '23 Tefft. Indiana Hasan, Gerald John, Litt.B. 1934 37th Ave.. N., Seattle. Wash, Lee, Jr„ Thomas Joseph. Ph.B.For.Cnfm. 1831 24th Avo., S.. Minneapolis, Minn. McGarty, Leo John, M.Com,S. 5407 Sierra Visto, Los Angeles. Calif. Regan. Daniel James, Ph.B.Com. '23 615 Deep Eddy. Austin, Texas Sharp, Ivan Cullen, Ph.B. 318 Roseway Drive. Klamath Falls. Ore. 
May, 1938. The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Swanson. Plin Joseph. Ph.B.Com. *23 518 S. Oxford. Los Angeles. Calif. Vnlanucva. Manuel G.. B.S-AKric. Guanamaria 526. Ariqulpa, Peru. S. A. y^illson, Stephen Crawford. Ph.B. 84 78th SU. Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Where's Castner? The Alumni Of­fice expects everybody else from '23 to be on the campus June 3-4-5. So put in an alarm for the old South­paw. We're expecting Father John Cavanaugh to handle local details on the rebound from a big year as Pre­fect of Religion. Drop him a line when you're coming, so he can have a Bulletin down to meet you. 
Louis Bruggner, eminent newsman of South Bend, has scored a coup with a series of radio broadcasts over the local station, "Behind the Scenes with Magazines." Louis' fund of training from Doctor Cooney and his nine years in the newsstand business, coupled with his priceless insight as a result of the N.D. newsstand, ought to give the Michiana citizenry all the answers to the boys working their way through college. 
1924 Secretary: J. F. Hayes. Wm. J. Ped­rick & Co.. International Bids., Rock­efeller Center. New York City. 
MaU was returned uneJainieti from addresses ffivcn here. Ahtmni OMec needs presentaddresses.' Please help—everybody. 
Birmingham, Albert Joseph. Ph.B.F.C. 1869 Beacon St.. Brookline. Mass. 
Bittner, Herman Wm.. Litt.B. 63 W. Weber Ed.. Columbus, Ohio Cahill. Frank Robert. LL.B. 54 Lux Ave.. Rochester, N. Y. Corbctt. James William. Ph.B.C. 3055 N. Meridian, Indianapolis, Ind. Devine. James Thomas. E.E. 5045 Palmer. Chicago. III. Gibbons. Richard Francis. E.E. 54 Fourth St.. San Francisco, Calif. Gooley. Darrold Francis, Arch.E. 846 Mai ictta St, South Bend. Ind. Hamilton. George R,. Ph.B.Joum. 4556 Beacon St . Chicago. HI. Huethcr, Edward Joseph. Ph.B.F.C. 3702 W. Kilboum Ave.. Milwaukee. Wis. Kennedy. Lester Joseph. C.E. Box 42. Hcndersonville. N. C. Kerwin. Clarence .T.. M.E. 137 E. 45th. Oklahoma City, Okla. Loughltn, William H.. E.E. 1307 Corby St. South Bend. Ind. Maher, 'William Raymond. LL.B. 1535 Schrieber Ave.. Chicago, II?. McGinnis. Ambrose. LL.B. 1 N. LaSalle St . Chicago. HI. McGowan. Daniel Francis, Lt^B. 43 N. JIaple St.. Akron. Ohio Meagher. Bernard F.. E.E. 784 S-mth St. Elgin. HI. Murphy, Edwin William, Ph.B..Toum. 300 10th St. N.W.. Washington. D.C. Norton. Joseph James. Litt B. 18451 Ohio St . Detroit. Mich. Rivera. Louis A.. B.S.Agrie. Arequipa. Peru. S. A. Savage. Harwood Gold. B.S. Agric. 1200 High St.. Leavenworth, Kansas Schmitt Michael A.. LL.B. 2944 46th Ave., S.. Minneapolis, Minn. Vial. Eugene. E.E. 727 Huerfanos. Santiago. Chile, S.A. 
jg25 Secretary: John P. Hurley, 2085 Brookdale Road. Toledo, Ohio. 
Ma3 was returned unclaimed from addresses ffiven here. Ahtmni OSiec needs presentaddresses. Pteaso help—everybody. 
Armbruster. Donald Peter. M.E. 1871 Marlomcs Ave.. E. Cleveland. Ohio Blanco. Victor. Min.E. Guillcrmo Prieto No. 10. Mcx.. D.F.. Mexico Condon. Walter Thomas. B.S.Agric Staufer Store. Dubuque. Iowa Fuller. James Haves. A.B. 17385 Santa Barbara. Detroit Mich. Gtcason, Clinton Harrison, LIj.6. Auditorium BIdff.. Cleveland, Ohio Hagerty. Joseph Michael. M.E. La. Public Utilities Co.. Sliddl, La. 
Haubcr, Eugene Andrew, B.S. 3625 Blaine, S t Louis, Mo. Hcrlihy. Jerome Francis. C.E., Ashkom. III. Hood. Myron E.. C.E. 2536 Vine St. Cincinnati. Ohio Hunsinger, Edward Thomas. LL.B. 4601 Chester St . Philadelphia, Pa. Leach. Milton Bernard, B.C.S. 316 Third Ave.. S., Faribault, Minn. Iilahon. John David. B.C.S. 1427 Tower Ave. Superior, Wis. Moore. Wilfred E.. SLE. 2513 Cullow Ave., Chicago, HI. O'Donnell. Philip Francis. B.C.S. 402.? Hawthorne. Dallas. Texas Rellly. Austin Vincent E.E. Falls Village. Conn. Shechan, .Tohn .Tosoph. A.B. 65th St. and Broadway. New York City Shircliff. Charles Robert B.C.S. 406 Main St. Loogootce. Ind. Snakard. John Willi.Tm, A.B. 4107 Gilbert Dallas. Texas Spencer. George Wash.. B.C.S. 23 Burgess St. Silver Creek. N. Y. Sullivan. S. Eugene, Min.E. Crosby. Minn. Tuttle, Jerome Stephen. M.E. Shallsburg. Wisconsin Velasco. Santiago. B.C.S. 645 Soler St. Manila. P. I. Welch. Edgar Bernard. A.B. Pontiac. Mich. 
John Hurley comes through — as usual. He writes: 
"Sorry this letter has to go out on the 20th, as I am going to the Spring Furniture Market May 1 and plan to make a personal investigation as to just what the 1925 secretary for the past 12 years. Jack Scallan, has been doing with himself since joining up with the benedicts. 
"Here are a few scraps from here and there: Ray Cunningham \vrites that all's well in Miami. Walter J. Haecker paid me a short, but pleas­ant, visit a few weeks ago. Butch is still with the B. F. Goodrich Company in Pittsburgh. Paul Romweber down in Batesville is enjoying the pleasures of that new mansion he just com­pleted. 
"Eddie Welsh came to Toledo a few months ago. Eddie is promoting 'a new plot for dead numbers' in other words, he is selling stock for a beautiful memorial park cemetery on the outskirts of Toledo. Eddie's mail­ing address is Ottawa Hills Memorial Park, Inc., Produce Exchange Build-, ing, Toledo. Eddie has been doing this work from coast to coast, staying in towns from six months . to two years and then moving on to another city. 
"Charles Guth wTites such a com­plimentary letter to ye secretary that I hesitate to send it in, but—^blush­ingly pass it over. 
" 'May I extend my congratula­tions on the wonderful job of report­ing you are doing for the class of '25. It seems like old times back on the campus to see some of the names of fellows I knew there and the things they have done since leaving school. As you know, my days at Notre Dame were limited but I have always felt that I was a part of the class of '25, and the memories of those friendships will live forever.' 
" 'I do not have much personal news other than I have heen practic­ing chiropody for 12 years, nine of which I have been married to the mos t wonderful helpmate in the world, (that is next to yours), have two beautiful daughters, six and three, who will some day be enrolled at St. Mary's. That's the best I can do for Notre Dame, so what are you laughing at?' 
" 'I am a very active Kiwanian serving at the present time on the board of directors and also holding the all important position of program chairman. Are you a good after-dinner speaker? I'm always on the look-out for material. [Sec'y speak­ing: "Like the late O. O. Mclntyre, I'm not an after-dinner talker . Thanks, though."]' 
" 'Al Foos of Norwalfc, Ohio, was over to visit last summer and we had a very enjoyable luncheon together. I hope to hear from him again this year. He was looking swell last year. Give my regards to Ray Tillman, Ben Kesting and any other former Badin Haller you might find loose in Toledo. I may be in Toledo this spring to ad­dress the Northwest Ohio Chiropo­dists Association and if I am, will look you up for a gabfest.' 
" 'Keep up the good work in the ALUMNUS, John; you're doing swell.' 
"Thanks, Charlie; I've done noth­ing; your classmates are doing it. Anyhow 'I'm doing the best we can,' as Hunk Anderson used to say at the pep meetings before the big games. Let's see how many 1925 boys will be back in June. Drop me a card if you are coming so we will have a nice long table. Plenty of the boys have already signified their intention of making Commencement." 
"Ray Cunningham air mails the following after a successful photog­raphy season in Florida: 
" 'I bumped into Hank Wurzer at the Nautilus hotel about two weeks ago. Joe Fitzgerald is still with the City National Bank and head of the trust department. I have been so busy I have had no chance to get to­gether with him.' 
" 'I get a chance to see Freddie Suite every once in a while, and it would do your heart good to see the apparent state of happiness in which he constantly seems to live, in spite of the iron lung captivity. Freddie is always cheerful and seems to think nothing of himself at all, and is so interested in everything everyone else is doing. In fact, Freddie has felt such a debt of gratitude to the Chi­nese nurses and hospital attendants, who took care of him while in China, that he staged a huge society benefit here about a month ag^ to which he invited about half of Miami Beach. It was a big outdoor boxing show, 
The Notre Dame Alumnus May. 1938 
and in addition to this he had most of the headline night club entertain­ers. He had bleachers set up on the huge Miami Beach estate all around the boxing ring.' 
" 'He witnessed this entire spec­tacle from his iron lung up on the porch where he views everything that goes on from a looking glass placed above his head. He also had a micro­phone set up, and throughout the evening he interspersed his own com­ments about the events of the eve­ning, and one couldn't help but feel that Freddie, himself, was master of ceremonies.' 
" 'One would think that Freddie had a lot of time on his hands, lying so helplessly in this mechanical lung, but one would be mistaken to believe this, for his days are very well occu­pied. He tells me he awakens early in the morning and, after breakfast, has his different treatments and then spends an hour or so with his secre­tary getting out his world-wide cor­respondence. He personally dictates all of the letters and is very much in­terested in this phase of his day's ac­tivities. He has visitors several times a day, and in the evenings either has a motion picture show in his own home or enjoys plajing bridge with anyone who wishes to engage in a game ^vith him. He also spends con­siderable time in learning all he can about the disease which has stricken him, and has contributed a great deal in perfecting a smaller portable lung which can be fastened to his chest and enable him to be in a semi-up­right position and breath e more freely,' 
" 'I know that everyone is inter­ested to know that he seems to be making some definite improvement in health. The other day he was out of his iron lung for 30 minutes and through massage and great care, life has been brought back in one of his legs, and everyone is hoping and praying daily that soon he will be back to normal health. Nevertheless, Freddie is resigned to his fate, and plans his life as though nothing had happened, and is a wonderful exam­ple of what one can do when one makes up one's mind to do it.' " 
Paul Hoeffer and his charming wife were recent visitors to the cam­pus. Paul is taking advantage of his Chicago office to renew his N.D. ac­quaintance. It was his first visit in eight years and Mrs. Hoeffier's first. Naturally, both saw plenty, although they came in the midst of the fire and plague in the Alumni Office families and had to hunt for themselves, with the aid of our free booklet. 
1926 Secretary: James A. Konan, 127 N. Dearborn St., Chicago, Blmois.' 
MaU. was returned undaimcd from addresses 
oiven here. Alumni Oficc needs present

addresses. Please help—cvcrubody. 

Bojewicz, Joseph S„ Ph.B.For.Com. Culver, Indiana Bolger. Prank G., Ph.B. Com. 2210 Wark, Detroit. Mich. Cavalle. Anthony B., B.S.M.E. 919 Kable, Coroapolis, Pa, Oarke, Lester J., B.S.Ch.E. '26 7916 Bennett Ave., Chicago, III. Coxjray, Francis J., LL.B. 223 S. Park Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif. Davis, Dr. Fred Russell, B.S. 54 Upper Berkeley St., London, England Esch. Francis Morley, B.S.M.E. 2405 Isabella, Houston, Texas Field, DwiKht Lcroy, B.S.Ch,E. 4433 Harrison St.. Gary, Ind. Guinon, Charles Howard. LL.B. 3000 Washington Blvd., Chicago, HI. Jackson, Paul F.. LL.B. 1905 Portage Ave., South Bend, Ind. Klise, Arthur Joseph, Ph.B.Com. c-o Kerarow Co., Tioga, Tioga Co., Penn. Landry, Ernest Lawrence, B.C.S. 4558 Fullerton Ave., Chicago, HI. Left, Gerald Daniel, LL.B. St, James, Michigan McElligott, Dr. Maurice J., A.B. Lying-In Hospital, Chicago, HI, Mintcr, William Donald, B.S. 64 East Lake St., Chicago. HI. Murray, Michael Earle, A.B. Vandorbilt Hall, L'ngwood Av., Boston, Mass. Nyikos, Michael Joseph. A.B. St. L. U., 3672 W. Pine Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. Poggiani, Tino Joseph, B.S.C.E. Big Four Bid., Cincinnati, Ohio Purcell, John Aloysius, Ph.B.For.Com. 82 Helen St, Fanwood, N. J. Reartlon, William Francis, A.B. 86 Fourth Ave., Long Island, N. Y. Regan, William Joseph, A.B. 29G6 W. 9th St, Los Angeles. Calif. Rohwer, Emmctt Thomas, Ph.B.Com. General Delivery, Houston. Texas Rolwing, Francis De Sales, Ph.B.Com. Egan & Centenary, Shreveport La. Sweeney, Clement Francis. B.S.M.E. 814 Union St. Schenect.idy, N. Y. Rustler Ronan shipped in these prize notes for your edification; "Mr. Dooley: "Persistent efforts will alway s bring results, says the little red book on salesmanship. And certainly our continued appeal for news from our classmates has met with response in the following fine letter from Ed Fallon: 
" 'Just looked through the latest ALUMNUS, It certainly was nice of Tom Burke (a local competitor one day and a customer the next) to write for the New York gang, but he really stole my thunder. Both my wife and sister have been after me for months to respond to your appeal but now that a precedent has been established, I will have no peace until I comply, so here goes.' 
" 'Tom failed to report that his brother Joe is practicing law down in Belle Harbor and is a fellow-member of mine in the 106th Infantry, New York National Guard. This makes it possible for us to see each other at least once a week. I want to make certain here and now that you under­stand the Army has our fullest inter­est and co-operation in all things but athletics (Please have Art Haley note this exception). Eddie Burke, '27, left Brooklyn a short time ago to go nowhere else but South Bend, where he is assistant brewmaster for the Drewiy Brewery, Ltd. I have had but one letter from him so do not know much except that his biggest competitor is Ike Voedisch, '28.' 
"'Charlie Judge, '26, (alias Glen Cunningham) is still running around Brooklyn, but I'll be darned if I can clock him. Les Grady, '27, is still in the editorial business. His latest mag­agazine. Radio, calls him to the radio occasionally whei'e he makes awards for outstanding performances. Fred Allen and Guy Lombardo have been among those favored. Watch your programs and hear one of our own now and then.' 
" 'A long letter by way of a Christ­mas greeting from Bert Dunne ad­vises that things are going nicely and that his son and t\vo daughters will one of these days be matriculating at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Word from Frank and Esther Conroy is that the latest member of their fam­ily is a daughter who will without doubt be a great favorite with her two brothers, Philip and Richard.' 
" 'A number of the local alumni turned out for the St. Patrick's Day parade, among them Leo McLaughlin, Larry Darrow, Warren Fogel, Henry Frey, Jim McDevitt and your humble servant.' 
" 'I had to mix up the alumni of various years a little because our own number is limited. I think the year before and after one's own class are at least first cousins so hope I will not be criticized for this move.' 
"Now that makes two in a row from New York. Those members of the class of 1926 south of the Mason-Dixon line and those west of the Hud­son, please take notice. 
"Had a call the other day from none other than our old friend and class president, Frank Bon. Frank had very few minutes in Chicago be­tween planes from Washington to Cheyenne and stopped into the office. At the time of his visit, I happened to be chasing a nickel down some alley and missed the opportunity of a talk with him. My office associates report, however, that he presents the same radiant and jovial appearance as the personable Frank we kHew a dozen years ago. I hope he gets back this way again soon. 
"A word of sympathy and condo­lence from their classmates to Bob Doran and Ray Durst. Mrs. Gretchen Durst Doran (Bob's wife and Ray's sister) died during the past month in Rockford, Illinois." 
If you are dying for a good piece of news, here it is—Joe Wagner, for­merly of Tiffin and Toledo, is now at 1717 Van Ness Avenue, Fresno, Calif., where he is learning the cas­ket business. Joe's experience with the Acme Fast Freight probably won't interest his new clients, but it all helps. 


May, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1927 Secretaries: Joseph M. Boland. Ath­letic OiSce. Notre Dame, Ind.; Ed­mund DeClerq, 7129 So. Paris Ave.. Chicago. 
Mail was returned unclaivted from addresses given here. Alumni OSiec needs present addresses. Please help—cvcryhodu. 
Bollinger, Joseph G., B.S. 1012 Bclden Ave., ChicaKO. Illinois Brandenburg, William O., B.C.S. 6153 Kenwood Ave., Chicago, Ill*nois Fall, V. Hilton. LL.B. Il l Carroll St., Hammond, Ind. Fennell, William F., A.B. 811 Dewitt St., Syracuse, N. Y. Flynn. Richard L., B.G.S. Waverly. N. Y. Goslin. Charles R., LL.B. 3320 Main St., Houston, Texas Gratzcr, Mathins, A.B. SS65 Lafayette, Detroit, Mich. Greeley, Jl Joseph, M.A. 506 Delaware Ave.. Buffalo, N. Y. Halloran, William D., Ph.B.Com. Annex, 73 Ontario St., Oak Park, 111. Hogan, Jr., Thomas L., LL.B. Rockne Sfotor Car Co., Detroit, 3ljch. Jay, James Griffin, Ph.B.For.CGm. Universal City, Calif. Kashcr, Raymond J., B.S.E.B. 5545 W. Monroe St.. Chicago. HI. Kauffman, Nicholas J.. B.C.S. Bijou Theatre. Milton, Pa. Knowlcs. William J.. M.A. 448 W. 56th St.. New York City Maloney. Bernard P.. Ph.B.Com. 1916 16th St. N. W.. Washington, D.C. 'SilcAdnms, Brcndon V.. A.B. Caribou. Maine McCabe. Harold T.. LL.B. 2616 Hampden Court. Chicago. 111. McDcrmott. Michael P.. Ph.B.Com. 817 E. 94th St.. Seattle. Wash. Ililler. A. W.. B.S.C.E. 1105 College St.. East St. Louis. Illinois Miller. Francis C A.B. 1807 S. Adams St . Marion. Ind. Montbnin. John P., B.S.E.E. Indiana Bell Tel. Co., Plymouth, Indiana Murphy, Thoms D.. B.S. Wauwatosa. Wis. Nyikos. John J.. A.B. 2031 Commonwealth Ave., Brighton, Mass. O'Brien. Dennis B.. Ph.B.For.Com. 1S9-02 35th Ave.. Flushing. L. I,. N. Y. Paff. George H.. B.S. .524 Mentor Ave.. Painesville. Ohio Size. Patrick F.. B.S.E.E. 402 W. Washington. Lebanon, Indiana Sullivan. William B.. Ph.B.Com. Acme Freight Co.. Miami. Fla. Tavarcs. Carlos. B.S.C.E. 925 Ave. Goflrc, Shanghai. China Theissen. Victor W.. Ph.B.Com. 601 Fourth Ave.. S.. Faribault. Mmn, Vaughan, Champ C.. A.B. 2364 S.E. 46th St.. Portland, Ore. W.ilters. William H.. B.S.E.E. Evansville. Indiana Wing. James G.. Ph.B.Com. 2928 Wilcox St., Chicago. HI. 
Through a vale of tears comes Coach "Man on the Street" Boland: 
"Pinky Martin, when last heard from, was selling Walter Chrysler's automotive products in Pittsburgh and probably was wondering when Fritz Wilson would be heard from again. 
"Regis I. Lavelle is with the Du­quesne Light and Power Company, of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He lives in West View, Pennsylvania, and on De­cember 30 his daughter, Carol Anne, was born. When last heard from. Regis was doing nicely. 
"Joe Reedy is wit h Universal Credit, and was a recent visitor to the campus and spring football practice, where he kibitzed on the tackles with an expert eye, having been an old tackle himself. He's going to be with us frequently, he says, now that his work takes him through the South Bend territory at intervals. 
"Eddie White is now a South Bender, and the 01' Dog is doing all right. He's with the Foley .'Adjust­
ment Bureau, helping Al Foley, '26, settle this and that in the legal realm. 
"And beyond that, the scrivener has to scriv' off to football practice. He admits that the foregoing is slim stuff, but if all of you saw the condi­tion of that football team this spring, and the little boys we have to play that tough schedule with next year, you'd be merciful. Pardon me while I go out to get a little spring prac­tice in sobbing, myself. Gotta keep in shape. Adios." 
The now famous conference of small business men included Clar­ence A. Reilly, Chicago, who at­tended as president of the American Treasury Corporation. 
1928 Secretary: Louis F. Buckley, Middle­ton, Wisconsin. 

TEN-YEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 

3/aiZ irtw returned unclaimed from addresses given here. .-UiiTiijii OSiec needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Berthfaume, Philip Joseph. LL.B. Bottineau, North Dakota 
Bethke, Edward Joseph. B.S-Arch.E. State House. Springfield, Illinois Bov, Thomas John, B.S.M.E. 100 Stuyvcsant PI., St. George, S.L, N.Y. Carey, Vincent Forde, Ph.B.Com. Bankers Trust Co., 16 Wall St, N. Y. C. 
Duffy. William Francis. Ph.B.C. Kew K's'g'n Ct, Kew Gardens, L.I., N,Y. Dwyer, AVilliam Kenny, Ph.B.Com. Montgomery Ward & Co., Chicago. IlL Engcl, Harry, A.B. 2611 Gladstone. Detroit. Mich. Falter, Paul Eugene, Ph.B.F.Com. Ironton. Ohio Flewelling. Lester Morgan. M.A.Boy Guid. Clyde CTC. Port Chicago. Calif. Greene. Richard H., B.S.E.E. 1249 Albany St. Schenectady. N. Y. Halpcrin. Jacob. B.S. 734K W.Jefferson Blvd.. South Bend. Ind. Hegele. Lester Charles. LL.B. 108 Broadway. Chicago. 111. Holland. Austin Joseph, A.B. Box 354, York Beach, Maine Ingram, James Maurice, BJ\.rch. Edinburg. Texas Jeffreys. William Hudson. Ph.B.Com. Hanging Rock, Ohio Layne, Walter Hugh, A.B. 15567 Normandy, Detroit Mich. Maloney. Linus Donovan. A.B. 3501/. West 24th St, New York City' Maloney, Lyie Edward, A.B. 219 Rcdondo Ave., Long Beach. Calif. Manns. Leo Harold. B.C.S.For.Com. 432 College Ave.. Grand Rapids. Mich. McMcnamin. Maurice Gerard. B.S. 609 W. 114 St. New York City McSwecney, Edward Louis. A.B. 719 Ontario St . Oak Park. 111. Morrissey. James Thomas. A.B. 7425 South Shore Drive. Chic-iso, III. Murphy, John R., A.B. Emporia. Virginia Nickclls. Robert Lynn, Ph.B.For.Com. 3355 Balmoral Ave., Chicago, III. O'Donohue. Valentine A.. A.B. 1005 Stale. Schenectady. N. Y. O'Mara. William. A.B. 800 E. 5th St.. Peoria. III. O'Meara. Vincent Don.. LL.B. 310 Hull Apts.. Peoria. III. Pettersch. Carl Alfrc<i. A.B. 134 N. LaSalle St.. Chicago. III. Raybum. Jerome Willis. A.B. 6146 N. Artesian Ave., Chicago, HI. Rudduck. Herbert Inman. B.S..M.S. "29 1516 W. Church. Champaign. HI. Stcnius. Charles Arthur, Ph.B.Com. 2038 Delaware. Detroit. Mich. Tally. Edward Joseph. A.B. Worcester St.. Southbridge, Mass. Williams. Charles Albert. B.S.Ch.E. 709 North 11th St. Klamath Falls, Ore. Williams. Kirwin John. B.C.S. 252 Natalen Ave.. San Antonio. Texas Wary. George Marcus. A.B. 6643 N. Ashland. Ave.. Chicago. HL 
Here is the Professor, talking to you for the last time before the gi­gantic, stupendous, overwhelming 10­year reunion. He says: 
"John Fagan certainly did a fine job in reporting on the engineers in last month's column. We were sorry to hear of the death of Louis Carr'* mother which came at the time he was to cooperate with Fagan in writ­ing the column. We are glad to know that Louie will be with lis for the reunion, and I am leaving it up to him to see that his old side-kick, Turk Meinert, is on deck also. 
"I understand that Wag and Boyle are working hard arranging for a very successful ten-year reunion. The reunion party is to be held Saturday evening, June 4, following the annual alumni banquet. We shall be very glad to receive any suggestions which will help the committee in planning the affair. Vince Carney, in a recent letter, offered a very good one to the effect that those who find it absolute­ly impossible to attend should send a recent photo, which I think a good idea and hereby promote it. No doubt the gang would enjoy seeing, for instance, John Herbert's or Fa­ther Mulreany's bald heads. Also, I hope that the men who are unable to come will be sure to drop a line to me, or Armstrong or Dooley at the Alumni Office, telling of their where­abouts, so we can pass on the infor­mation to the classmates present. Most of the fellows did this five years ago at the reunion, much to the pleasure of us all. 
"Father Mulreany writes fro m Sacred Heart Rectory in New Or­leans, Louisiana, that he will not be able to be with us to sing the Mass for the deceased members of the class. He is kept busy as chaplain at the Orleans Parish prison. A short time ago he accompanied three men to the gallows within a period of an hour and a quarter. He also men­tioned that he got over to Hatties­burg during the Christmas vacation to visit George Hauenstein and Rupe Wentworth. George is working in Tupelo, JEssissippi. He said that he sees Moon Mullins quite often and that Moon is doing a fine job at Loy­ola University. 
"Joe Brannon writes from San Francisco, California, that he is kept busy traveling from Seattle, Wash­ington, to San Diego, California, as field officer for Sears Roebuck Com­pany. Joe sends his best regards to Kirwan, Ochoa, Wagner, Leppig, Mc­Swecney, Sexton , Garber, Allen, Walsh, Denchfield, and Layne. 
"I notice that Bill Jones, who is in the Department of Justice at Wash­ington, D. C, was taken for a ride in the Washington Merry-Go-Round by Pearson and Allen in their March 12 column. 
"I shall be looking forward to see­

The Notre Dame Alumnus May, 1938 
ing most of you at the reunion and will expect a note at least, with a re­cent photo from those who are unable to be present." 
Comes this noble effort from Dick Phelan in Chicago: 
"The last issue of the ALUMNUS informed me that the knowledge-seeking Louis Buckley had appointed me to make a report on the members of the class of 1928 residing in Illi­nois and to indicate, if possible, which of the fellows in that group contem­plated returning for the ten-year re­union in June. Here's a trj'! 
"Bill Kearney, who a short time ago with the assistance of State's -4.t­tomey Courtney, defeated the Nash-Kelly machine in Cook County, is anxiously awaiting Commencement time and has foregone the politicians' holiday at Hot Springs that he might be on hand to participate in the fes­ti\'ities. His side-kick, Bert Korzen­eski, who still enjoys being called 'Mui-phy,' and who \vitliin the past year has taken on to himself a wife, will also attend. It is my suggestion that a force be employed to dirty up a tower room in the sub of Sorin that Bert and Bill may feel at home. 
"Joe Langton, of Peoria, will prob­ably be at hand and provide the en­tire reunion -with refreshments from the home citj'. 
"Bill Leahy, being from St. Louis, is without the confines of my baili­wick. He was, however, recently in Chicago at the Bowling Congress and told me that both he and Carroll Pinkley would be at Notre Dame when the opening guns of the 1938 Commencement are fired. 
"Red Allen, Ed McKeown and Dog White, all of whom are practicing law in Chicago, have stated that they will return, and White has requested that he also be given a room in Sorin sub. 
[See '28 notes for later news on Sir White.] 
"John Cavanaugh, afte r having given many of the loop banks the pleasure of his emplojTnent, is now practising law specializing in income taxes. He has been in South Bend many times recently and plans on at­tending Commencement. He will probably appear with Hanley Mur­phy, now in the steel business, seated on his left shoulder. It is probably unnecessary for me to state that Howie Phalin will be there. He is, as you know, still in the book business. Howie told me this morning that he would see to it that Ray Lusson and Sid Duba would be on hand. 
"Neither Pete Beemsterboer nor 

his side-kick. Van Etten, could he reached and it is impossible for me to advise you at this time whether or not they will be able to return to South Bend. 
"Ed Brennan, of swimming fame, plans to attend as does also Bob Knox, of Crystal Lake, who is now assistant state architect, residing in Springfield, Illinois. Bob will prob­ably bring with him Dave Smith, who is working in the same department. 
"The last time I saw Art Gleason was when he got off the Michigan Central in Niles. I have heard that he has since married the girl and is living in Decatur. Whether or not he will be able to return for Commence­ment is problematical. I OTU make certain of that fact when I go through Decatur next week. 
"When Frank Creadon goes off the 

subject of his year-old daughter long enough, he sells insurance to the non-suspecting of Riverside and environs. When last I saw him he told me that within a few years he hopes to put Bob Kirby to shame. It is hoped that FVank will return to school with Bob 

Winters. 
"A fellow I used to Icnow by the name of Paul Tobin is now practising medicine with his dad and brother Jim, '29, in Elgin. His brother, John, gets his degree this June and enters medical school next fall. Both Paul and Jim are doing very well, the for­mer specializing in surgery and the latter in internal medicine and bed­side conversation. Paul, Bert Kor­zeneski. Bill Kearney and myself are going to drive down for Commence-bent, but Tobin is permitted to join in only upon the condition that he will refrain from discussing the vari­ous forms of streptococci long enough for Bill, Bert and myself to talk over the theory of forcible entries. 
"We can not definitely advise you that 'Suits and Pants' Jack Doyle, now engaged in the clothing business in Minneapolis, will be able to at­tend. 
"Chet Rice, the pride of the engi­neers, who was with me at the Chica­go Title and Trust Company until re­cently, will undoubtedly return. He recently talked with Charlie Schui­seler who, I imagine, will forget his figures long enough to represent the engineers, with Dick Green from Jo­liet and Leo Fettigg of Chicago. Eddie Keenan will probably be on hand, as will also George Coury, pro­viding market conditions are such as will permit them to leave La Salle Street without their guidance for a few days. Vince Ducey is also a La Salle Street 'bull.' He will appear and render a few selections. 
"Ed McGuire is 'making millions* in the practice of law and will prob­ably be able to 'get away for a few days.' 
"Ray Mulligan, who is an attorney for the Chicago Title and Trust Com­pany, Eddie Rafter and Pat Varra­veto all intend 'being back.' It is also hoped that Tom Walsb and the ever-silent Dinney Considine will be there to exhibit the fine degree to which they have developed their respective characteristics. 
"Recently Joe Dunn, '27, stopped off on his way from Winona, Minne­sota, to Vicksburg, Mississippi, where he was to meet Hayes Fuller and 
Dink Hennessey. All three of them 
were going to New Orleans. -Appar­ently they were lost in the French Quarter, for I have not seen Joe, who stated that he would stop over in Chi­cago for a few days upon his return. 
"When Connie Ochoa was visiting here, he told me that it was going to be impossible for him to return for Commencement but that he had great hopes of coming back in 1939 to at­tend the New York Fair. 
"Further the Affiant sayeth none other than he hopes that all of those herein mentioned, will be able to come to Notre Dame for the tenth reunion and that they will enjoy themselves in the same degree that he contemplates for himself." 
Don't ask questions. Just pack a toothbrush come sunup of whatever day it takes to get in here June 3. And stay. Class committeemen Wil­lard Wagner and Andy Boyle have really lined up a program. Prof. Buckley is exercising his always able remote control. 
But listen — would you like to see everybody you kne w in school? Would you like to limber up in a soft­ball game against the '33 team? Would you like to follow a high-powered alumni banquet on Saturday Night with a high-powered Old-Fash­ioned Carroll Hall Smoker of the Class of '28? In Can-oil Hall, with all the trimmings? Would you like to play some golf, swim a little, lis­ten to some great talks, see the new campus, etc.? 
Then all you have to do is be here, because the Committee has done the rest! 
Ed McClamon is out after 100 per­cent of the '28 lawyers. He threatens to wire them collect or visit them, if he doesn't hear from them by May 
10. Ed's address is 2600 Union Guardian Bldg., Detroit, if you want to stave off disaster. Ed didn't have any news for this issue, but he's en­thusiastic just the same. 
Bob Evans, Vicksburg, Mississippi, was in charge of the U.N.D. Night and attendant observances there on April 25. These included a special radio program at 2 P. M. over Sta­tion WQBC. The half hour was well publicized and well received, and brought Notre Dame to a growing group of friends in the Mississippi Valley. 
1929 Secretary: Joseph P, McNamara. At­torney Gen. Office, Indianapolis. Ind. . 
Ma3 teas returned unclaimed front addresses given here. Alumni OSiec needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Docltweiler. Dr. Roliert E., B.S. 2825 Van Ness Ave.. San Francisco. Calif. Bair, Harold A.. B.C.S. 264 Hotel Raymond. Fitchfaur?, Mass. Bittner. Eesis H., B.C.S.For.Com. 537 S. Kenmore. Los Angeles, Calif. Crowe. Francis A., B.C.S. 
R. R. H.. Lafayette. Ind. 

Cunningham. Michael, J., Ph.B.For.Com. 325 N. Orange Dr., Los Angeles, Calif. DeLecrs, Lawrence N., B.C.S. Waupun, Wis. Dudas, John A., A.B. 472 McKee Ave.. Monesscn, Pa. Faille. Clinton H., A.B. 
50S7 Jackson, Chicago, III. 

Ferro. Ernest J.. A.B. Elkhart. Indiana Flynn, Francis M., A.B. 2 Rector St., New York City Friel. Joseph G., A.B. 3701 Avenue J. Brooklyn. N. Y. Frillici. Aldo M., B.CS.For.Com. 28H Chester Ave.. Qeveland. Ohio Gaia. Joseph L.. B.C.S.For.Com. 543 N. Claybrook. Memphis. Tenn. Gallant, Joseph Max, A.B. New Bedford. Mass. Georges, Louis ^V^, B.S.Phar. 34 E. Northwood. Ave., Columbus, Ohio Gildea. Walter V.. B.S.M.E. Gibson, Ohio Gosselin, John S.. A.B. 33 Kirkland Ave., Cambridge. Mass. Griflin. Gerald B.. B.S.Phys.Ed. 750 Prospect Ave.. Cleveland. Ohio Havelick. Francis Joseph, Ph.B.For.Com. 51 Canton Road. Shanghai. China Hogan. Donovan L., A.B. 9917 Ramona Blvd.. Cleveland. Ohio Jewett. George E.. B.S.C.E. Murphysboro. Illinois Kaiser. Charles Hugh. B.S.M.E. 1657 Watcrbury Rd., Lakewood, Ohio Keczer. Earl G.. B.C.S. 22% McKinley St.. Middleport. Ohio Klock. Paul Raymond, A.B. Box 374. Lake Bluff. Illinois Lamboley. F. Earl. LL.B. 916 E. 83rd St. Chicago, HI. Lehnert. Lloyd Hugo, B.S. 1410 N. 2nd St. Phoenix, Ariz. Lynn. Leo J., B.C.S. 4019 W. Madison. Chicago. 111. Mahoncy, John Joseph. LL.B. 308 S. William St. So. Bend. Ind. McDemiott Charles E., B.S.Chem.B. 6047 Kimbark Ave.. Chicago. HI. McGooghegan, Michael E.. LIj.B. 8134 Loomis. Chicago, III. Rauch. Basil. A.B. 414 Riverside Drive, New York City Reuther. John J., A.B. Miramar Apts.. Washington, D. C. Roucchc. Robert H.. A.B. 2039 Sherman Ave.. Evnnston. HI. Rourke. John Thomas. Ph.B.Com. 92 South St. Ncwburgh, New York Sebesta. Alvin R.. A.B. Boncstecl. South Dakota Trombley, Clifton James. A.B. Adams St. Detroit. Mich. Wagner. Sylvester N.. A.B. Iron Junction. Minn. 
Wood. Jesse R.. Ph.B.Com. Manhattan. Kansas Worland. Andrew C, A.B. 
Jasper. Indiana Yanulewic7.. Michael J.. A.B. 23-07 32nd St. Astoria. L. t, N. Y. 
Your pal McNamara comes through 
in the best McNamara tradition, as 
follows: 
"Dope picked up in Chicago: There are 17 Notre Dame men now con­nected with the Chicago Title and Trust Company. Among these are Dick Phelan, Ray Donlan and Tom Johnson . . . Ed Keown is the head of his law firm and is doing very nicely . . . Walt O'MalUy is still judge in Aurora and recently sat as The Notre Dame Alumnus 
special judge on the Circuit Bench in Cook County . . . Frank McCurrie is assistant state's attorney . . . Ray Drymalski is assistant United States district attorney in Chicago . . . Jim Allen has gone with the credit depart­ment of the Lumberman's Mutual Casualty Company . . . Jack Keefe is secretary to a congressman in Wash­ington, D. C. . . . Spike McAdams is assistant United States marshall . . . 
George Brautigam, Bert Korzeneski 
and Bill Kearney are law partners . . . Irv Corcoran can be found any day around the insurance building (he was married last July or is to be married next July . . . That's accur­acy for you, Dooley!) 
"An East Orange, New Jersey, cor­respondent reports that Daniel C Gillespie was married to Miss Cather­ine M. Malchow on February 19 in the Our Lady Help of Christians Church. 
"Vince Carney, who represents the famous threesome of Hart-Schaffner and Marx in Rochelle, Illinois, wig­wags the following message: 
" 'I suppose that odd connection with the class of 1928 and the close­ness of Louie Buckley have always swung any dope of myself into that 1928 column rather than in 1929. As I recall, 1929 and myself have been rather strangers. Since graduat­ing in 1929, I have done but two things. I have worked here in the above institution selling "rags" and spent the remainder of my money and time traveling around and seeing this and that. I am not married and, like the newest information from Joe Hi>s in Los Angeles, the prospects for the future are still a bit remote.' 
" 'In 1929 I spent most of the sum­mer and early fall on the West Coast. I saw most of the boys there at that time. Then came that period of dark­ness which lasted until three years ago. During that time I did but little, so it seems, but work with the prob­lems of the old firm and study music on the side. That old Glee Club spirit stayed with me and now I find myself with 20 voices each Sunday trying hard to make the Lord hear our prayers. We have had quite a bit of fun with this work, and now I am planning a campaign of building up the church music and enthusiasm in this part of the state. We are go­ing to prepare three programs and go around after Easter to ten differ­ent parishes and put them on. We hope by touring a bit that we can arouse a bit of competition and' in­crease interest in Church music as a 
result.' 
" 'I just learned three weeks ago that Tony Kopecky has had a fine choir under his fingers for these past three years. I intend to run him down soon and see how he does it. Blessed 
211 

Sacrament parish in Chicago, I under­stand.' 
" 'My politics has been limited strictly to the matter of cleaning house on the local library. That nearly caused a local typhoon but now, after five years, everything is calmed again and much progress has resulted. Thanks to Paul Byrne at N.D., I have had a chance to get the right dope when I needed it.' 
" 'I have seen quite a few of the fellows off and on. I hear often­times from Joe Nettleton from Mur­phy, Idaho. You know he was with us but one year coming from Colum­bia College in Portland. Joe has the ranchers of southwest Idaho In good stead, and I hear reports that he has some county office which sets him up well. 1 have heard also indirectly of Tom "Buck" Jones who graduated in law the same year. He moved back to his home in Boise and since the death of his father has taken com­plete control of the law business of the city his father has managed for years. I also checked up on Edward Lawrence Barrett 3 year back. Bob we called him, from Albany, Oregon. He is managing the implement busi­ness left by his father and is doing well. The -4LUMNUS reported on his marriage several years back.' 
" 'George Edgar Jewett, originally from Roswell, New Mexico, fell out of a clear sky one Sunday last April for a three-hours visit and then dis­appeared again into parts unknown. I understand he is working for some pipe line company, not in Pennsyl­vania. George has never been known to write but once. His visits always come as a surprise.' 
" 'I hear indirectly of Joseph Eu­gene Shroeder of Two Sivers and Three Rivers, Wisconsin. He is also in the rag business. A salesman we both buy from carries reports back and forth, but I have never heard a thing in answer to numerous letters.' 
" 'I was in Mexico last winter for almost two months and also the year before for one month. Undoubtedly you read the reports of my visit with Connie Ochoa and George Palomino in Buckley's column. Since return­ing from those two trips, I have had lots of fun going around putting on "travel talks" on Mexico. I have a lot of movie film I took and then I brought back several loads of curios, etc. The people around here are most interested in that country, so I have a circus visiting all the high schools and local clubs telling facts and fiction.' 
" 'On my way back I stopped in Shreveport to see Art Kane, '30, who used to draw a lot for the Juggler and the Dome." Of course, he would be out just then, so I missed him.'" 
"In response to a number of re­
The Notre Dame Alumnus May, 1938 
quests for information about Bill O'Connor, the old sleuth begs to re­port that Bill is carving quite a name for himself in the wholesale grocery business—M. O'Connor and Company is the firm name. Bill was married on November 28, 1936, to Miss Louise Dumas of Fowler, Indiana, and on November 15, 1937 the cigar store's stock of goods in Indianapolis sagged perceptibly as Bill announced the ar­rival of Ann, who 'weighed in' at seven pounds.' " 
George Beamer, prosecuting attor­ney, is running for Congress on the Democratic ticket. One of his oppon­ents in the Eepublican primaries is Robert Grant, '28, LL.B. '30. 
1930 Sccretarj-: Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St., New Kensington, Pa. 
Mail ivas rctitntcd unclahncd from addresses given here. Alumni Oficc needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Abel, Theodore J., B.C.S. 6003 Park Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. Abrams, Howard Thomas, A.B. 301 Maple, Laportc Ind. Barry, Earle David, LL.B, 107 N. Gladstone Blvd., Kansas City. Mo. Barton. Daniel, A.B. 4 E. 32nd St., Baltimore, Md. Bess, Herbert Francis, .\.B. 
Boapmi, Kenneth A., A.B. G-14 Camclia Ave., Baton IJoupro, La. Cogan, Joseph E.. B.S.M.E. 110 S. Taylor St., South Bend, Ind. Connor, Edward Daniel, A.B. 136y. Sibley St., Hammond, Ind. Costello. James Cook. B.S.M.E. 32 S. 10th St., Newark, N. J. Gulp, Wilbur Vernon. B.S. University of Cincinnati. Cincinnati, Ohio Dilley, James Farley, B.S.Phys.Ed. 515 Kosevillc, Ave., Newark, N. J. Donovan. Thomas Joseph. B.S. 114 E. Hancock, Detroit. Mich. Erwin. Georpe Edward, IJL.B. 419 Main SL. New Britain, Conn, Friel. James Edward. A.B. 60 Wall St., New York City Gauthier, John Han'ey, B.C.S. 924 S. Penn. Ave.. Lansinjr, Mich. Irvin. Paul Hecves, A.B, 66 Buckinsham Rd., Brooklyn, N. Y. Lant;, Bernard Anthony. M.A. 3319 Oakland Ave.. Minneapolis, Minn. McCabo. Joseph, Ph.B.For.Gom. 6512 WoodUiwn Ave., ChicaEO, III. O'Prey. Howard Michael. A.B. 113 S. Laird St.. Akron, Ohio Preece, John Douplas, B.S. Battle Creek, Nebraska Quinn, John Joseph. Ph.B.For.Com. 2025 Atkins, Oevcland. Ohio Bcaumc. William Joseph, B.S.Phys.Ed. 13357 Chelsea. Detroit, Mich. Reedy. .Joseph Bartholomew, A.B. 211 S. Ash Street Nei'ada, Mo. Hous, Friedley Armand, A.B. 1324 N. St Joseph St, So. Bend, Ind. Schaffer. .Tames Meaffher. B.S.M.E. 1902 Monroe St. Endicott N. Y. Shannon, William Harold, B.C.S. 3120 Broadwav. New York City Shumate. Harold J.. B.C.S. m N. 51st St. Mi.imi, Fli. StBler. J.ickson Lewis. Ph.B.For.Com. 507 East Avenue "A" Hutchinson. Kans. Simons. Georjre G.. B,S.H.E, 2624 N. Ridpreway Ave.. Chicaso, HI. Stanhope. James Clark, B.C.S. Wisconsin Tele. Co.. Milwaukee, Wis. Swenie. Denis Joseph. A.B. 1323 Fulton St. San Antonio. Tc-cas Trandcl. Emorick Albert. B.C.S. 2554 Diversoy Ave., Chicaso, HI. Woodruff, Oayton C. A.B. 1221A Ontario St. Rochester. N. Y. Zdankus. Francis James. M.A. 
R. R. 3, South Bend. Ind. 

In a letter to Rev. Charles C. Milt­ner, C.S.C., Prof. Joseph Apodaca writes from Washington, where he is on leave of absence, that he is direct­ing research in the field of the de­sirability of consumer advertising by the vegetable growers of the nation. Joe will complete the report June 30. Instances of the project have been few and isolated and it is his job to coordinate and supplement the na­tional picture. If you'll look at the Washington Club's U.N.D. Night pic­ture, you'll see that Joe has entered into the activities of that organiza­tion. He has also made invaluable contacts ^vith the great economists enlisted to aid the government's pro­grams. 
Jack Cannon is working with the New York Life in Columbus, Ohio. 
LOST ALUMNI! 

Alumni listed under Class headings are those to whom mail was sent at the accompanying address, from which it was returned with no for­warding address. The Alumni OfBce sends out tracer cards, to Club Sec­retaries, and to Postmasters. So the alumni listed are those for whom such tracers have not been returned. WHAT WE WANT ARE CORRECT MAILING ADDRESSES. Please co­operate in putting these men, many of them we believe interested and active, back on our mailing list. 
1931 Secretary: John Bercan, 828 E. Col­fax Ave.. South Bend, Ind. 
MaU icas returned unclaimed from addresses given here. Alumni Offiee needs presentaddresses. Please hdp—everybody. 
Bartone, Joseph F., B.S. 6 Charles St , New York Citj-Blomstrom. Ellis Theodore. A.B. 746 Lake Shore Drive, Escanaha, Mich, Bradley, Arthur Loruis, B.C.S. 37 Barat Rd., Montreal, P. Q., Canada Brown, William Michael, Ph.B.Com. 91 Farragut Rd.. Swampscott. Mass. Catanjal, Aueusto C, MJ^. St Rita's Hall, Manila, P. I. Cleary, William Henry. A.B. Hotel Chastleton, Washinston, D. a Duffy. Philip H., A.B. 1630 R. St, Washinston, D. C. Flahaven, William J., A.B. 19 Bishop Ave., Bridceport Conn. Hernandez, Jose Mcndiola, M.A. 1437 E. Miner St . South Bend, Ind. Horwit, Daniel Norman, A.B. 6427 Maryland Dr., Los Anffeles, Calit Hosan, Hubert E.. Ph.B.For.Com. 9917 Ramona Blvd.. Oeveland, Ohio Kacprzynski, John J., B.C.S. 34 Plymouth St, New Britain, Conn. Loney, Francis Michael. B.S.E.E. 324 East St, SprinRflelld, Ohio Manner, Harold Joseph, B.C.S. Milford Place. Milford, Mass. Nash. Charles David. A.B. 20 Cohawney Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y. O'Connor. John Joseph, M.A. 12 Wordsworth. East Boston. Mass. Palomino, Carlos. M.E.. B.S., '27 Lucema 30, Mexico City, Mexico Rorke. James Hayden. Ph.B.For.Com. 442 W. 24th St. New York City Rudolf. James Alexander, Ph.B.Com. Woodland, Wis. Strong. James Maitland. U.E. 342 Gurdon St. Bridgeport Conn. Sullivan, William Jos.. A.B.. LL.B., '33 
N. 8th & W. Ch.imhers St, Milwaukee, Wis. 

Taekens, Clarence Leo, A.B. 710 Crapo St. Flint. Mich. 
John is planning gala things for you. Read this: 
"Members of the class residing in South Bend will be hosts to all re­turning '31 men at an informal reunion, on Friday evening, June 3, at the German Village, Center Street, in downtown South Bend at 8 o'clock, central standard time. The commit­tee arranging this affair includes: John Mclntyre, RoUand Poulin, Jerry Crowley and Art Smith. As a well-rounded program of entertainment is in store for those present, members of the class are urged to be on hand Friday night. 
"Fifteen members of the class in the South Bend area were present at the class dinner held the latter part of March at the Columbia Athletic club in South Bend. Father Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., director of the C.Y.O. in St. Joseph County, and Father George Dupuis, C.S.C., prefect of Freshman Hall, and Bill Dooley, of the Alumni Office, were guests of honor. Also present were Seymour Gross, Max Pascoff, Red Reyniers and Bill Desenberg from out of the state. 
"Charlie Powers is now located in Tampa, Florida, with the Southern Underwriters Insurance Company and often visits with Mike and Matt O'Brien, who are law partners in that southern to^vn. Another Florida vis­itor last month was Johnny Dorscbel, who was a passenger on a record-breaking plane trip from Rochester to Miami. The new record was six and a half hours. 
"Austie Boyle hereby warns all of of his friends that he is coming up from New Orleans for Commence­ment and wants to see all of his old friends including Kearney, Lauerman and the rest. Jim Doyle is still with Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., and plans on rounding up a large number of Chi­cagoans for the reunion. 
John Bergan was chairman of the St. Patrick's Day dinner in South Bend this March 17. Revs. Corne­lius Hagerty and Eugene Burke and Judge Albert Doyle, '27, were other 
N.D. members on the program. Rev. John C. McGinn, C.S.C., was toast­master. 
1932 Secretary: Herbert Giorcio. 9005 188th St, Kollis. L. I., New York. 
ilfail was returned unclaimed from addresses given here. Alumni OMcc needs present addresses. Please help—cverybodi/. 
Burke. Thomas Joseph, A.B. 78 Chapin St, BinKhamton, N. Y. Carr. Francis Joseph. M.A. 34 Woodland St . New Haven, Conn. Cox, Ellsworth A., Ph.B.F.Com. 515 N. St Joe St, South Bend, Ind. Dewey, Robert Edward, A.B.Phys.Ed. 622 James St, Syracuse, N. Y. Hull. Morris Purves. A.B. 1284 E. Third St . Salem. Ohio LaDame, John William, A.B. Box 1S8, ^Vilsonville, III. Langenhahn, William R., B.CS.For.Com. 923 Portage Ave.. South Bend, Ind. Lerman. Simon Edward, B.S. 9805 Goodwin Ave., Detroit Mich. Mathews, John Retter, A.B. 5218 Greenwood Ave., Chicago, III. McLeod. Kenneth Joseph, A.B. 19000 Chandler Park. Detroit Mich. O'Connor. Francis Joseph, B.S.M.E. 642 W. 112th New York City Papas. Michael John, A.B. Box 500, Casper, Wyo. Psencik, Louis Fred., B,C.S. Smithville. Texas 
May, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 213 
Richards, James Stanley, A.B. 2227 S. 7th St.. Terre Haute. Ind. Schneider. Richert. G., A.B. 350 International House. Chicago. 111. Sodoski. John Bruno. A.B. 8 West Ave., Bridgeport. Conn. Sumabat. Doroteo J.. M.A. Collcctic Hotel. Manila. P. I. 
Ray Geiger represented Notr e Dame at a major high school confer­ence for a 40-high-school population of 10,000 at the Pingry School in New Jersey recently. 
Joseph Willis, for the last two years principal of the Hurleyville, New York, school, has been named principal of the new Central School at Livingston Manor, New York. The new school will be completed for the coming school year. Joe has won considerable fame as an actor since his graduation as an honor student, playing in some 46 plays under the direction of a retired Broadwaj' actor. 
1933 Secretary: Donald Wise. 110 Pleasant St., Joliet. HI. 


FIVE-YEAR REUNION June 3, 4 and 5 

MaU teas returned unclaimed from addresses given here. Alumni OSiec needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Allinsham. George Edmund. A.B. 2 Greenridge Ave., White Plains. N. Y. Barhaxette, John Har\-ey, B.S.JI.E. 900 S. Fifth St.. Terre Haute. Ind. Barber. Lawrence \Vm.. A.B. a210 S. Michigan St.. Sauth Bend. Ind. Brjan. George Wm.. B.C.S.For.Com. 1307 Scott Ave.. Fort Wayne, Ind. Bunch. Rollin K.. U.S. 5555 Mar>-land Ave., Chicago, III. Filson. Robert Bell. A.B. East Brady, Pa. 
Lynch. John Henry, Pk.B.Com. 
1446 S. Sixth St., Terre Haute, Ind. McCalTary. Patrick B.. B.S.E.E. 2110 Fourth St.. Calgarj-, .\lberta, Canada O'Connor. Charles Joseph. A.B. 849 W. Main St., Lansing. Mich. O'Neill, Owen James. A.B. 414 Lowell St., Ironwood, Mich. Powers. David Patrick. A.B. 62 E. 182nd St., New York City Rubcrto. John Michele. J.D. 32 W. Fifth Ave.. Gary. Ind. Tischler. Robert George. B.S.E.E. 12405 Detroit Ave.. Lakewood. Ohio Wyne. Wilbcrt George, M.A. 321 Lincoln St.. Hibbing. Minn. 
WORDS FROM THE WISE 

"1933 to 1938. Five years have passed since the graduation of our class, and now it is time for all to gather round under the golden dome once more for the first reunion of our class. I know that it is the wish of every one of you to make this re­union the largest, most enthusiastic, and finest of all, so therefore, all of you that have not definitely decided to be at old Noti-e Dame during June 3, 4, and 5 get busy and give the boss that old pep talk so that YOU can once more establish a personal con­tact with your classmates, your in­structors, and with the First Lady of all Notre Dame men. 
"From my contacts with quite a few of the lads from this sector, in and around Chicago, it looks like a great gathering. Everybody seems to be going! Also there seems to be much interest from the East. A let­ter from Tom Behan informs me that Syracuse will be well represented. Jack Finneran writes from New York and the news from that city is most encouraging. Jack states that he will act as a clearing house in the New York territory for those who are looking for transportation via auto and for those who are going to drive and want someone to go along to share the expense. This seems to me to be a great idea, and if all of the respective sectional chairmen will do the same it will facilitate matters greatly. I will be glad to hear from any of you who wish to accomplish the same result through me, so let no one miss this reunion because of the lack of a ride. Get together in your respective localities and arrange the car situation or write directly to me and I w-ill trj' and allocate those seek­ing rides to the proper channels. 
"That seems to be all the pertinent information at this time. The -Alum­ni Office is most graciously arranging the details for the class, and I can assure all of you that this reunion will meet with your whole-hearted approval in that regard. Ait Revoir until June. 
Be here for Friday night, June 3. That is Public Charge No. 1, accord­ing to the local committee. You'll hear more but do that and you'll have nothing else to worry about. 
For an interesting letter on Fred Snite, see the 1925 class notes, a let­ter from Ray Cunningham. 
2934 Secretary: James Moscow. 2320 N. Lawndale Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
MaU was returned unclaimed from addresses given here. Alumni OSiec needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Doerfler, Arthur F.. A.B. 
230 W. 103 St. New York Oty 

Black. Jr.. Harry Wm.. A.B. 
3243 Berkshire Rd.. Cleveland Hts.. Ohio 

Fitzgerald. Hugh P.. A.B. 
117 Lincoln St.. Brooklyn. N. Y. 

Fortune. Robert T.. A.B. 
4920 Chicago St.. Omaha. Neb. 

Horrigan. Joseph Edward. B.C.S. 1100 17th Ave., Seattle, Wash. Keller. John Richard. A.B. Marmion. Aurora. III. McDonough. Robert Joseph. A.B. 26 Amherst Place. Livingston. N. J. Powers. Clement Francis, LL.B. 250 Dayton Ave.. St. Paul. Minn. Sullivan. Frederick R.. A.B. Montgomery. Ohio Vaughan. Joseph Edward. B.S.M.E. 238 Central St. Watertown. N. Y. Widger. Francis Easton. B.C.S.For.Com. 128 Fifth St. Wilmette. HI. 
. Jim Moscow took time out from his insurance business to send this news: 
"First our thanks and then our apologies to Mr. Chester Holman, father of Ed Holman, '34. The thanks for news of his son, the apologies for our not acknowledging said scoop at an earlier date. Ed has been ap­pointed judge of the Poor Man's Court for the city and county of Leavenworth, Kansas. This is the court established in Kansas for per­sons unable to hire an attorney. Two afternoons a week he teaches busi­ness law and administration at St. Mary's College of Leavenworth and also finds time to serve as a director in the city's Junior Chamber of Com­merce. Ed's big political moment came to pass on January 29 when he made an address for the Young Re­publicans at the Kansas Day Cele­bration. 
"In his spare time we understand Ed is working on the State Legisla­ture to pass a 'Day Packing BiH' which would give him 26 hours for his activities in lieu of the conven­tional 24. 
"While Ed Holman was making his speech, last January 29, Charlie Mon­nol was married in Detroit to Miss Hester Rogers. What an odd world we live in! There was Ed starting his speaking career and Charlie ending his! 
"We have heard from reliable sources that Dave Froelich is worWng in Chicago, but as yet have not con­tacted Wm personally. Can't you take care of that, Dave? 
"And whom should we bump into last February in New Orleans but Doc Van Lahr and his charming bride? That was their last stop en route to Cincinnati after a honey­moon trip from California via Mexico City." 
If the city's gettin' you slickers, you'll be happy to know that Bill O'Brien has just joined Alan Feeney in managing a 3,000-acre farm, called Milky Way, near Pulaski, Ten­nessee, the P.O. actually being Bu­ford. Al has a redheaded daughter bom January 31, and the farm has a race track. So if Bill is lucky with the horses, and the redhead grows up fast, he's got something there, ac­cording to Bob Cabill, sighing over the difference in farms. 
1035 Secretary; Franklyn C. Hochreiter, 610 Eodd St . Midland. Mich. ' 
MaU ivas rttumed nnelaimed from addresses given here. Alumni OSice needs presentaddresses. Please help—et»ert/6odtf. 
Finn. John Francis. A.B. 9817 Springfield Blvd.. Qns Village. N.Y. Hill. Charles Frederick. B.S. 1602 Vamnm St, NW.. Washington, D.a 
Hill, George Edgar. B.S.Chem.E. 1602 Vamum St. NW.. Washington. D.C. Howard. James Richard. B.C.S. 7948 Vernon Ave., Chicago. BL Klaibcr. Vchnar Keith, B.C.S. 232 Lincoln Parkway, Buffalo, N. Y. 
Murphy. John Francis. B.SJI.E. 1859 Mignon St. Memphis, Tenn. Pcttingill. John Sidney. P.S.Phy.Ed. 806 Decatur St. Watkins Glen. N. Y. Shay. Francis Joseph. B.C.S. 236 Belvedere Ave.. Columbus. Ohio Smith. Edward John. A.B. 27 E. 62nd St. New York City Smith. Ramon Gilbert, Ph.B.Ctm. Box 631. Bozeman. Montana Steinberg. Sidney Lester. A.B. 1325 Chase Ave., Chicago, Illinois Wykoff. Edwin Robert A.B. New Castle. Indiana 
We give you, as Doctor Just would say, the American Midland Nat­uralist: 
"We had several communications this month together with a copy of The Cub—the chronicle of the Uni­versity of Detroit High school. It was sent to us by some unknown and unheralded messenger of Mercury. Whoever the charitable soul was, may 

•we express our definite appreciation? From the journal we quote verbatim: 
"The Cub extends heary congratu­lations to Mr. George J. Brett, who at a recent meeting of the Board of Directors, was elected secretarj-­treasurer and a director of the Mich­igan Bell Telephone Co. Mr. Brett is the father of Ray Brett, a gradu­ate of the class of '31 at U. of D. High. Mr. Brett has served the JEchigan Bell Telephone Co. for the past 47 years.' 
"And to Ray we extend felicita­tions on his father's good fortune. 
"Our friend Sig Sluszka of Hemp­stead, Long Island, comes through this month with that long waited for epistle. Thanks a million, Siggie. 
"Sig is teaching in Hempstead High school. The subject — 'Social Science.' But in addition to his four classes, he is completing his M.A. work in New York University and at Hofstava College. He says he antici­pates having the work accomplished by June. Then, if all works out well, our friend hopes to continue scholas­tic and academic studies, with a Guggenheim Fellowship. Sig's appli­cation was accepted last October 15 for a $2,500 yearly award for two years during which time he is to write a "History of the -Jews in Poland." The work is to be done at Krakow. Poland, while he is study­ing under Dr. Roman DybosM at the Jagielonski Universitet in Krakow. He will be studying for a Ph.D. 
"Here is to a successful career with loads and loads of luck Sig, old boy! We know you can do it, and that we'll be reading about you one day. Our money is on you. 
"And now to news from other parts of the country, and the world. Jack Dowling, ex. '35, has joined Franco's Spanish legions to keep his Irish up. 
"Frank Palmisani is doing himself a piece of accounting work with the New York City unit of the Infantile Paralysis Association. 
"Sig requests us to pass the word on to Jim Hartley, M.A., '36, and John Capitell, '34, that he'd appre­ciate a word from them. How about it, fellas? 
"Comes word that Jordan Har­grove of fond memorj' is in the re­search department of A. Kudner's Advertising in Radio City, New York Cit}'. That's a new one, isn't it, Jordan? 
"For some time now we have been wondering about the smiling and quiet Irishman who dined us at his Long Island home during our New York sojourn. At last we have some news. Jim McDevitt opened on March 4 an auditing bureau — 'James Mc­Devitt Company: Auditors and Ac­countants' in the big town. Here is to a gi-and success, Jim! 

"Brother Fergus, C. S. C, (Bill Burns) is teaching down in Texas at St. Edward's University. The subject we do not know—^How about letting us in on it, Bill? 
"The Nassau populace continue to read Bill Kennedy's comments in the Nassau Daily Review. Are you still covering the court house. Bill? 
"If you recall last session we were querj'ing about Steis and Tombragel? Well, here comes the dope, and we expect it to be up-to-the-minute. Bill is out on the west coast doing film extra work. For awhile he was an­nouncing at station KOBH in Rapid Cit}', South Dakota. 
"Bud writes for Universal. He is doing scenario work with a co-writer —a woman. His address is Universal City, California. 
"And now we come to the 'flying Fox.' The gentleman is none other than Bob Fox of the beer par ex­cellence brewed in Chicago. Thanks for the letter from Hollywood, Bob. We really did appreciate your taking time out during a vacation to give us the chatter. 
"Bob and Mrs. Fox flew out to the coast six hours ahead of the TWA plane that was lost in the mountains late in Februaiy. We'll give you Bob's own description of the more hazardous part of the trip. 
" 'Everj-thing was perfect through Illinois, Blissouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas and Arizona, but as we neared California, just 200 miles from Los .A.ngeles, we ran into heavy storms with a 200-foot ceiling—which really makes for dangerous flying, particu­larly in the mountains at night. Our pilot pulled off his course and made an emergency landing in the desert near the Mexican border. No fooling, "Hoch," there was quite a bit of sus­pense connected with it— and we were all mighty happy to be rescued two hours later and driven to Holly­wood where we arrived at 7 the next morning.' 
"Congratulations to Tom Proctor. Tom passed the Indiana bar exam which he took last Alarch 7 and 8. Only 21 of the 87 taking it passed, and of those 21, 6 were Notre Dame men. We continue to hold own own. 
"In addition, Tom was chairman of the Hoynes Banquet this month. He carried on in his usual Proctorian style and did himself and the class proud. 
"We give you now a little dope on the engineers. 
"Volume two of the 'Scandal Sheet' edited and published by our mathematically minded friend. Mat Sagartz, brings news that is pertinent and fresh. Thanks a million. Mat. Your sheet comes at the right mo­ment to help us finish off this month with the 'bang' we want. 
"Of Bill Bernard we learn that he has turned from county work to a state job in native Ohio. 
"About the prominent Newburgh, New York, Blakes we are told that father Blake has been reappointed citj' manager of the eastern river town. And of our own Ed Blake word comes through that he is with the city engineering department. 
"Another New Yorker comes through with a state job. Joe Bums of Waterto«Ti has landed a berth with the New York highway depart­ment and is located up in the Adiron­dacks, near Sai^nac Lake. Did you have your fleece lined undenvear for the winter, Joe? 
"Last summer Ed LeJeune found himself fed up with drafting work and let it be known to his company. The American Bridge outfit did not want to lose Ed, so they sent him out on field work. For some time now he has been working on the construc­tion of a high tension line fi'om South Chicago to Gary. 

"We've got the goods on another of our exer's—^Walt Matusevich. Re­member him from New Jersey? After Walt left the campus he sold himself to a concern doing drafting for an electrification project for the Penn­sylvania railroad.­
"Another engineer to leave for better quarters is Frank O'Connor who left the Oregon Highway De­partment and got himself a place with the Bureau of Reclamation. Prank's address is Bureau of Recla­mation, Tule Lake, Califoniia. 
"Let us quote on Charlie Schill— 'Our walking edition of Esquire was a real pal. . . . Charlie is working for the Midland Electric Corporation, and is working with some mammoth equipment which includes two large shovels for strip mining.' Prettj' heavy stuff to handle for a little fella, don't you think Charlie? 
"Vic Wiegand is vacationing in the Florida sunshine after finishing a piece of work for Barstow and La-Feher, Inc. Vic did himself up proud­ly in his task of helping to design and supervise the construction of the Barberton Sewage Treatment Plant in the Ohio home town. 
May, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"Mat writes of himself as follows: 'After messing around the sewers all last winter, the city (Chi) sent me to a school of proportioning engineering where I got paid for learning the same stuff Mr. Shilts tried to pound into my head.' Though working in the Loop last summer on several street widening jobs. Mat is at pres­ent unemployed. As spring opens things up he hopes to be back on the horse. 
"We are writing this on the night of our first day's work in Midland, Michigan. As yet it is new, but we do know that it is a three-fold job— with the school department, the Ju­venile Coordinating Council and the County Court. Mix 'em all up and you'll have preventative and correc­tional work with delinquents and pre­delinquents. We have three offices and three titles depending on where we are doing the task of the moment. More we dare not tell you at the mo­mnt, except that our address is 610 Rodd Street, Midland , Michigan. When we see you on the campus Commencement week-end we'll likely have some real dope for you. 
"On our way here yesterday, April 17, we saw Gene Witchger in Sagi­naw. Gene is with Eaton Manufac­turing in Detroit, and is rooming at the Y (at present WTiting only) with Bill Lord who continues on for Norge. Gene is in the engineering research department of Eaton's. 
"It shall be our distinct pleasure to be at the wedding of Gene and Miss Betty Wolf, in St. Mary's Cathe­dral, in Saginaw, on May 7. Con­gratulations in advance to you both. We think you did a swell job of selecting. Gene. May you both have tops in happiness, success and good luck, and may your sons carry on in their father's footsteps. 
"One word before we close, and it goes to Bill Lord. How do you like the Ford 60, Bill? We are in your class. How about a race? 
"This about finishes our job for May. Next month we merely cover Commencement and those of you who will return for the 'round of spots.' Here is to seeing as many of you as possible and toasting away another full year of healthy '35 news! 
The Vincentian Institute basketball team, Albany, New York (also C.S.C. Brothers now) coached by Danny Cunha, won the nineteenth Eastern State Scholastic tournament in April. It was an undefeated season for Danny's boys, their first appearance in the tournament. They defeated Atlantic City, heavy-odds favorite, in the finals. 
1936 Secretary: John Moran, 61 E. 95tB **"" * St.. Apt. 2, New York City. 
MaQ icas returned undaimed from addresses given here. Alumni OSiec needs presentaddresses. Please help—everybody. 
Alten, Joseph Aloysius, A.B. 9829 Lake Ave.. Cleveland, Ohio Day. Winfield Scott. B.C.S. Il l Atlantic Way. Miami Beach, Fla. Dunn. Thomas Francis. B.C.S. Elberon Ave.. Pittsfield, Mass. Flynn. David VanWert. A.B. 102 Fifth St.. Geneva. III. Glcichauf. Thomas Justin. B.S.E.E. oSll BlacliStone Ave., South Chicago, 111. GreKorj-, Arthur Clarence. A.B. 406 Griffin Ave.. Canon City, Colo. Hoyos, Elias Aranno. B.S. Maniznlcs, Colombia. S. A. Newman. Joseph John, B.C.S. 1615 Commonwealth Ave., Brishton, Mass. 
John is starting to wind up an­
other year of excellent work in your 
behalf. He writes: 
"With the first stirrings of spring it seems that a goodly number of the 'brethren' have shaken off their win­ter lethargj-— and have decided to come out of their retirement. This— plus the alphabetical list of those who had dropped into obscurity since June, 1936, which was published last issue—resulted in a pleasing increase in the mail these last two months. So here goes: 
"Fii-st to be heard from was Bill Jacobs who does a good job reporting on the activities of the boys in and around Cleveland, Ohio. Bill states that Ralph Kaiser is doing big things with the Lakewood Coal & Coke Co., and that he keeps his chemical engi­neering knowledge from getting rusty at the same time by practicing with a toy chemical set in the basement at home. 
"Bill Darcy, another chem engi­neer, is holding down a nice job in his line, and after hours continues to promote dances, parties, etc. as of old. Tom McGettrick, who gave up the idea of law at Harvard for the newspaper business, is in line for congratulations on his approaching maiTiage. Tom can be reached at 16200 Lucielle Ave., Cleveland. Chuck Kollar is reported as doing well down at Georgetown Med School. 
"Regarding himself. Bill states that he is employed by a pharmaceutical firm selling to physicians, hospitals, etc. In concluding, he requests a line or two from George Meagher and Fred Cox. Bill may be reached at 1295 Chase Ave., Lakewood, Ohio. 
"The second welcome letter of March came from Tom Vicars who stated that St. Pat's Day reminded him to drop me a line. Tom, as noted here previously, is a travelling audi­tor in the motor fuel tax department of Illinois. His headquarters are at Effingham, Illinois, and he covers a territorj' of 14 counties — which means a bit of hiking, even in Illi­nois. 
"Tom discloses that he discovered his former room-mate, Louie 'Butch' Hanaman, working in the floor cover­ing department of a Peoria, Illinois, establishment. Louie has done con­siderable jumping around in the Jiast two years — and still owes this col­umn a letter from way back when. How about it. Butch? 

"Tom reports that he is still pick­ing winners in football, and taking all betters to the cleaner as he used to do with some of us in Walsh hall. And last, but not least, comes the word that another in the long line of Vicars, Bob, will be ready for N.D. next fall. Tom can be reached at 613 E. Washington St., Pontiac, Illi­nois, or District Highw^ay Office, Ef­fingham, Illinois. 
"Tommy Bott was the first to an­swer the alphabetical appeal in the last issue and came through with a very enjoyable letter late in March. Following his graduation, Tom re­ports that he spent 10 months play­ing piano with Frank Wine-gar's or­chestra, and, in the course of his musical travels, saw Dick Echrich who is working for his father's sau­sage business in Jackson, Michigan. Congratulations are also in order for Dick, as he has been married for some time. Tom himself has left the state of single blessedness only re­cently, his marriage to Margaret Wernette of Grand Rapids having been celebrated in St. Bavo's Church, Mishawaka, Indiana, on February 4, 1938. 
"Tom spent last fall at the Univer­sity of Michigan law school, but was forced to withdraw at Christmas time because of his father's illness. While at Ann Arbor he reports seeing Bob MacDonald, '36, John Allan, ex. '36, and John Hellenthal, '36. 
"Others whom Tom has seen in his travels around the Michigan country­side include Art Cronin, who is in the coal business with his father in De­troit, Justin Tompkins, '35, and Jack Desnoyers, ex. '36, both of whom are working in Jackson, Michigan, banks. Art Vameau is managing the Wealthy Theatre in Grand Rapids, and Chuck Cole is reported as working in Chi­cago. George Shields, '35, is con­nected with the Keeler Brass Co. in Grand Rapids, while Bill Chappell and Bob Doyle, both ex. '37, are working in Flint. 
"Tom w^inds up his interesting let­ter by asking for a line from Gon­zalo V a I d e s , '35. Tom can be reached at 1233 Thomas St., Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
"Grand Rapids was heard from again later in the month when Tom Campbell sent along a short letter stating that Tom Bott's father had passed away a few days previously after a lingering illness of three years. The class joins with me in extending condolences to Tom on his great loss. 
"Our Mr. Campbell reports having heard from Mickey Dendler, Philadel­phia lawyer to-be, and Ray Deely, who is down in Washington with the 
F.D.I. Corporation. Tom is still con­nected with the accounting firm of Seidman & Seidman in Grand Rapids, as is John Brogger. Tow would like to hear from Gene Tobin, and so would I—so get out the pen and ink. Gene. 
"A pleasant surprise was a letter from Lin Phoebus who hadn't been heard from in many months. Lin states that he has been working on the Philadelphia Record since leaving Cumberland, Maryland, last June. He would like to hear from some of the old Scholastic gang—Goldman, Huf­nagel, Gillespie, Foley, etc. Lin can be reached at the Y.M.C.A., room 312X, 1421 Arch Street, Philadelphia. 
"Another to heed our alphabetical exhortation was Leo Gushing, who writes that he has managed to survive the dust storms of his native Has­tings, Nebraska. Via the mail, Leo has heard from Bill Higgins, who is with Sears Roebuck in Racine, Wis­consin. Leo, himself, has been with the Gushing Grocery Co., wholesale grocers, 101-107 North Burlington -Avenue, Hastings, since graduation, first as salesman, and for the past year as credit manager. The last named job has the advantage of call­ing for trips to credit meetings in Iowa, Kansas, and Nebraska, as well as the national credit congress to be held in San Francisco this year. 
"Leo is in line for congratulations also as he will be double stepping up the church aisle in another month or so. Best of luck, Leo, and send us the details for the next issue. 
"Early in April, Ed Dunn reported in, via letter, from Utica, New York, from where he covers most of New York state, east of Auburn, getting new business for the Continuous Forms Division of the United Auto­graphic Register Co. Ed writes that he is driving out to Commencement this June, and wants to know if Bill Smith, Pepper Martin, Cy Conner or any one else in the east would like to make the trip with him. So if any of you are planning on •i'isiting Notre Dame in June, you can write Ed, c-o United Autographic Register Co., Box 66, Utica, New York. 
"In the mail this month came a re­quest for a little news regarding the whereabouts of Bill Shakespeare and Andy Pilney. So kindly oblige with a line or two, boys. 
"The last letter for this issue was a newsy and very interesting one from Joe Sullivan, the pride of Nor­wichton, Connecticut. Joe reports that he joined the Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. after graduation and worked, at various times, in Hartford, Springfield, Akron and Chicago. At the present time, Joe is connected with the United Air Lines Transport Corporation in the Chicago office, and seems to be very enthusiastic about his job. He reports that he has cov­ered the country, via United Air Lines, and expects to be transferred to California this summer. 
"Joe writes that he has seen Tony Mazziotti and Tom Grady who are sharing an apartment in the Windy City, Justin O'Toole, Pat Donovan, and Joe Spain who is with duPont. Also Jim Sidall, who is with Dun & Bradstreet in Chicago. Joe, who can be reached at 7443 South Shore Drive, concludes with the hope that he will be able to get back for Com­mencement this June. 
"And that's all for the mail bag this issue. Here in New York, busi­ness took me to the office of the Lib­erty Mutual Insurance Co., 10 East 40th Street, where I walked into the claims department and almost stum­bled over two N.D. men—Jack Brit-ton, '36, and Don Manning, '37, who are adjusters for the firm. I liad a pleasant chat with the boys and learned that Jack definitely denies be­ing married, claiming the rumor was started as a practical joke. I learned further that insurance had also claimed Ray Kenny, who is associated with McGuinness, Johnston & Flani­gan, 99 John Street, New York City. 
"Congratulations are in order for Wally Fromhart, who, according to the last ALUMNUS, became a proud father on February 16. 
"-4nd the last item of business for this issue is to point out that the next column will appear in the June num­ber and will be the last one till next fall. So drag out that paper and pen and let me hear from you before June 1." 
Jack Bray went to town in Padu­cah, throug h the cooperation of Radio Station WPAD and Mr. Gene Peak, on U.N.D. Night, and gave the city of the famous Carney Scholar­ships a local Notre Dame program. 
Prof. Daniel J. Youngerman is a name appearing u-ith frequency and credit on the playbills of The Am­brosian Players, St. Ambrose College, where Dan is professor of speech and coach of dramatics. Latest produc­tion, in March, was "The Masterful Monk." 
2037 Secretary: Paul Foley, 454 Aubom Ave., Apt. 208, Pontiac, Michigan. 
MaU icas returned unclaimed from addresses 
given here. Alumni Office needs present


addresses. Please hdp—everybody. 

Brassell, John Edward, B.C.S. 147 Broadway, Taunton, Mass. 
The P. 0. collected three cents "postage due" on the following, but 

it's well worth it. Take it away, Mr. 
Foley: 
"Just when we were getting out the cudgels to fight for a reorganiza­tion bill in this department, up goes the prosperity sign with a deluge of-letters bristling with news copy. In fact these last few weeks have been practically one letter after another, so to speak. By anyway, we found time to read them all even if answers have been a mite slow. 
"First at the barrier this time around is a wrathful tome from Charleston, West Virginia (a suburb of Eonceverte), in which our last is­sue stint is lampooned by one John 'Zeke' Cackley, who answers categor­ically 'I ain't doin' nawthin' o' the kind.' We had him jerking sodas, managing a basketball team, etc., but 'Zeke' rises to remark: 'For the past . several months I have been connected with the West Virginia Liquor Con­trol Commission (!) in the Publicity Department (!!)' We presume that has to do with firing three quick shots of warning publicity when the pesky revenuers pop thi'ough the wildwood. But 'Zeke' says he was not always thus. 'I worked here and there—in­cluding a federal court session for the A.P. You know, me and Mallon an d Runyon an d Killgallen' [Ed. Note: None of the latter three being with -A..P.] But it was downright bodacious of 'Zeke' to ^vrite; we con­sider it plomb enjoyable. We nearly forgot one marvelously enlightening paragraph from Cackley. We quote: 'At present I'm blowing "push-pipe" with a local 15-piece combo.' (Has to do with playing a trombone in an or­chestra along with 14 other dunder­heads). 
"Eddie Gannon, who now hangs his hat in Parma, Ohio, while work­ing for the Edison Co., in Cleveland, came through with a fine letter since we last hit the street. Apparently everything is hunky-dory with the red-bearded one. He has developed a heart interest in Chicago, probably has a bank interest by now and is bowling along handsomely (compara­tively speaking). 
"Gannon brings word of many of the lads thought lost in the big push. John 'Chopper' Genegal, it is said, is hooked up in more or less respectable manner with a utility company in Middletown, New York. Those who have seen his third base capers will give John a nod in any race, even with utilities. We'd like to hear from Genegal now that base hits are in the air again. 
"Hal Heineman, Gannon maintains, is working as a draftsman for the Fairbanks - Morse Co., and getting along right well. 
"Here's one we queried on last May, 1938 

issue; it has to do with Gene Ling and is strictly an unconfirmed rumor which has him placed as a staff mem­ber on the Chicago Tribune. More than that we know not. 
"Rating near the top as our most faithful correspondent is Frank J. Reilly, winging them in from Orange, New Jersey. This latest brings word that George Feeley is selling steam whistles for Walter A. Deems, Co. It should be a pipe. Especially after that training season with Delancey Davis among the Pennsylvania mines. 
"Art Shaughnessy, we are told, is a faithful employee of McCrory Stores, Inc., so faithful in fact that he's get­ting a crack at a vacation in Florida. 
"Still lurking around near the Oranges, we learn that Bill Smith, of football and Mayo brothers fame, is building a neat reputation as athletic mentor at Clifford Scott Junior High School in East Orange. 
"John Henry Hearn, cryptically, has some irons in the fire out Los Angeles way — where irons should sizzle. 
"The Lawson Y branch of the cam­pus, located 'conveniently near the Loop on Chicago's north side' (near Clark street), is reported on in the Hearstian manner by Bob McClain, who has stepped out of the Lawson, but is still in the city room of the Herald-Examiner. At the Lawson, where men are still men and the 'phone operators are secluded, lives the battle - scarred Tony Mazziotti, probably still drilling Deep Eock Oil Co. 
"Newer Chicag o residents are George 'Bud' Bonfield. We don't know what he's doing in the Windy City, but he's there, and on the Cubs' side of town. Also in Chicago, fresh from the dewy heights of Iron­wood, Michigan, is Frank Lesselyong, ex-golfer and former roomie of 'The Week.' We are not enlightened on Frank's method of •ivrestling a liwng from the soil, but anyway, he is there with a mashie flailing away. 
"Word comes that Joe Druecker, 
to whom we still owe two letters, is travelling central Indiana and part of Ohio for the Linde Air Products division of the grand and glorious Union Carbon and Carbide. And those nurses, still pining in Chicago! 
"From a little closer to the hearth word drifts in from John Ullmann, once of the brighter mazdas in the Cooney College of Correspondence. Jack is connected with Detroit Edi­son Co., good spot for a mazda, and claims to be working. We are trying hard to remember his fearful energy in Alumni, urged on by the ubiqui­tous Roggenstein. 
"Ullmann brings word of several of The Notre Dame Alumnus 
the lads. Hank Ruen, late of Walsh, became the proud father of a boy papoose late in March. The Ruen family was in Cleveland for a spell but saw the light, and are now in Detroit where it's Ruen and Co. 
"Added to the list of benedicts is Joe Gallagher, reported married at some unknown date and working for the city of Detroit. 
"To those of you who remember, with pangs, Gorman 'Mayor' Hast­ings, it's well to report that he is pumping life in his father's funeral establishment. And is doing right well, we're told. 
"Roy Barron is working for the elder Barron in the baronial business and we hear, faintly, of a joust with income tax returns — which places Barron in a class by himself. He is reported hobnobbing with Bob Sieg­fried, also working in Detroit. 
"Art Cronin, he of right tackle and the K. of C, is still the Cronin Coal Company, even ^vith spring coming on. Last sight of Art he had lost little of his physique or hair and was apparenly keeping his eye on the curve balls. 
"Info on Jim Dubbs and Tom Byrne also comes from Ulmann who reports seeing the pair on visits to Cleveland (prompted by some roman­tic interest, no doubt). Dubbs is working for a typewriter ribbon com­pany, winding the left-handed spools. Tom is vfith Suburban Papers, Inc., selling advertising. 
"Here's a kick: Ullman was for a time modelling (we mean selling), lounging robes for J. L. Hudson Co. What a natural! But John looked too peppy for the job and was dis­satisfied with the short hours. 
"Longest of the tomes, and by far the most news-packed was a long-awaited inkling on the fate of our pride and joy, the B.E.P. past com­mander, J. Paul Sheedy. The letter arrived with little fanfare from the environs of Snyder, New York, when we had been picturing Sheedy in the romantic setting of a South American hacienda; a rhumba beating out its lurid and tantalizing rhythms; casta­nets, whirling skirts, siestas and all that—but it's Snyder. 
"We wade into Sheedy's tome with wary looks at the candle, which prob­ably won't last the night as we take stock on all the boys so competently reviewed by the ex-Ball-Master. 
"Jim Moulder, who started out humbly, we are told, has hit the top already and is reported the back-bone of the credit system at a Buffalo de­partment store. Not far behind is Tom Sweeney Condon, peddling auto­mobiles to natives of the Queen City of the Lakes. 
"Dick Smith, according to Sheedy, is in the side-car at one of the hard­ware establishments in his old home town and is hardwaring to beat the old Ned. 
"Bob Trousdale, last heard from around Christmas, is still airoond the Loop in Chicago with the accounting firm of Baumann, Finney & Co. 
".\t Penn Medical school are two of our best diplomatic agents—John Joseph Manning and Graham Owens. In fact the lads are roommates. It seems Manning has developed a heart interest at the home of 'Killer Jack' McGurl, whose sister is known far and wide as having the best left hand in the business, next to Jackie's. 
"Word comes in that the dean of the now defunct Jockey Club, Albert John Schwartz, is working up from the bottom in Salina, Kansas. Which is really a bottom, m'lads. He's with Lee Hardware. Co. It all comes out now that Schwartz "The Hammer Man,' intends to be married this fall (if the rains come and those plow points move). But many things go on in Salina. We have it straight that Vince Probst, whom Sheedy says is the one man election macliine, dropped into that fair city to entice the citizenry with a brand of beer he's peddling for his father's malt mill. 
"R. Parker Sullivan, who gave a flag away, is crossing things up at the Lexington Bell Telephone Co. Pappy once offered Sheedy the lieutenant-governorship of the Blue Grass State in exchange for an old street car transfer, but so far Pap hasn't whipped the local machine. 
"Enrique Jose Brias de Garchito­rena Roxas y Carvajal, (Mike Brias), finally arrived at Manila after a jun­ket across Europe. He arrived in the land of mantillas late in November. Naturally he beneflitted from the brief trip to Michigan in which your correspondent and 'The Week" Gil­lespie lent a few sage words in the Old Mill tavern. 
"Up Buffalo way we find Joe Bat­taglia, popping away at law books at Buffalo U. As an example of what comes of this sort of thing, Tony Brick, '37 lawyer, has his shingle flapping in the healthful breezes of Tonawanda, New York. 
"Now that we've exhausted Shee­dy's store of information, a word about the foreign commerce man himself: The lad swears he's made four sterling attempts to get away from this land of opportunity briefly and hit for the pampas, but maritime regulations, labor unrest, etc., put the spike on everything except quick trips to Sweetbriar on the St. Joseph River, where the blonde queen of the 1937 Ball is still holding forth. But 
all has not been in vain: Sheedy has been an iron worker, section mana­ger of a Buffalo department store, etc, and also bachelor of science. 
"So that's the works for this short sprint. We're at our best at about six furlongs, tire in the stretch and need a load of batting, but we do enjoy a lot of correspondence. Now that the first Tom Collins has her­alded spring, in all its glories and stuff, pop in with a note or two. Pos­sibly a bank note or two .. . or just possibly. ... " 
Prof. Louis Buckley writes that he heard from Bill Foley, who is regis­trar and teacher in a Jesuit school for Catholic union workers in New York. Jerry Vogel is with the Chi­cago Relief administration. Tom Pendersast is teaching and taking graduate work at Loyola, Chicago. 
Eddie Hoyt writes that he hopes to get through for a day on the cam­pus this summer, probably en route to or from Culver. 
Kenneth Lattimer has assumed the duties of supervisor of St. Joseph County (South Bend etc.) NYA proj­ects. He has been active in social work in South Bend. He succeeds Charles Weiss, '32. 
James Foohey was recently elected 






IlilllMilOlllllllIP 
UNIVtRSITE' ^
rE' KOTRB DAMtBDlAC 
iDlAC# 

A lACARIE 
'^H% 
II "US,"* MAIN B»gs};»o'' 

The Notre Dame Alumnus May. 1938 
cessfully in March. Tom Proctor, John Crowe, and Francis Breen also 

LOST ALUMNI! passed, from the local college. Alumni listed under Class heading 
Prayers needed—badly—^for a man are those to whom mail was sent that the world needs badly! Dick at the accompanyinif address, from Meier is critically ill in St. Mary's which it was returned with no for­Hospital, Minneapolis, where he has warding address. The Alumni Office been confined for much of the time sends out tracer cards, to Club Sec­since last June. TheReligious Bulle­retaries, and to Postmasters. So the tin on May 4 made a special plea for alumni listed are those for whom such prayers for Dick, remarking that he tracers have not been returned-had hardly missed a morning at Holy WHAT WE WANT ARE CORRECT Communion in his four years at MAILING ADDRESSES. Please co­Notre Dame. May is a good month operate in putting these men, many for the helping hand, too. 
of them we believe interested and 
active, back on our mailing list. 

1937 Legal Directory 

president of the exclusive Caldron (Additions and Changes) 
Club of Fort WajTie. Jim is a broker NEW YORK there, and has also starred in ama­

Nen York 

teur theatricals. BLIND. William C, A.B.. '32 30 Rockefeller Plaza 
Vic Wojcihovski is going Over big 7 Easl 85th Street 

as coach of Kingford High School (Michigan). His teams broke even in CALIFORNIA the won and lost columns but de­Los Angeles feated the arch rival, usually a jinx. 
RYAN. G. Bentley. A.B., "32 Bautzer & Ryan In baskeball Vic's team was runner 221-224 Equitable BJdg. 
up in the district tournament. 

6253 Hollywood at Vine Charley Dohnaiek, John Lechner 
INDIANA and Joe Shapero were among the '37 


InJianapoUs
boys in the Law School this year who 

SEXTON. John T., A.B.. 33 cracked the Indiana bar exams suc­707 Peoples Bank BIdg. 
The Campus on Parade 
NOTRE DAME A La CARTE, the unique historical map 
of the campus, will revive for you a hundred mellowing 
memories of your happy days at Notre Dame . . . 
Every building on the campus, 40 of them, pen sketched and placed in their 
proper location along with campus lore and legends depicted by over ]00 
individual cartoon drawings. 
Can you recall to mind the incidents and buildings illustrated in the border? 
Old grads, see how your alma mater has grown! 
Framed it makes an attractive and highly decorative wall piece. As a gift 
to sweetheart, wife, mother, son, graduate friend, it can't be beat. 
For only 50 cents NOTRE DAME A La CARTE will be sent at once, 
postage prepaid. 
HEd . Hickey, 362 Alumni Hall, I Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Enclosed find Please send copies of NOTRE DAME A La CAETE to: 
I Name 
I Address.. 
I City State.. 
May, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
THE NOMINEES 
(Continued from Page 177) 

are three other children in the fam­ily. Billy is a monogram football man and was captain-elect of the 1896 team, but did not return to school that year. He has been active in the Notre Dame Club of New York, as a member of the Board of Gover­nors, and president in 1933. 
Second Vice-President 
JOHN J. KENNEDY. John Ken­nedy's present position as judge of the court of common pleas of Alle­gheny County comes after a long and illustrious record. He received his 
A.B. at Notre Dame in 1909, and his 
LL.6. from the U. of Pennsylvania. He played varsity football at the lat­ter school, and coached Mercersburg Academy in 1912. Judge Kennedy is married and has eight children. Judge Kennedy possesses an outstanding war record. He served in 1916 in Mexico, and enlisted as a private in the World War. He moved up through all ranks to captain. He re­ceived the D.S.C. from General Per­shing, after six major engagements and being w^ounded twice. Judge Kennedy is an active member of the 
N.D. Club of Western Pennsylvania. 
JAMES M. PHELAN. Jimmy Phe­lan, president of the Notre Dame Club of Western Washington, coach of the University of Washington football team, and one of the head­liners in the American football coach­ing profession, needs little introduc­tion. His record at Purdue, followed by his great teams at Washington, mark him as one of the permanent stars in the football firmament. This achievement is merely a follow-up of the ability which made him a star at Notre Dame, captain of the 1917 team, which Jimmy left to enter the World War. Less is heard of the close contact Jimmy has maintained with Notre Dame as an alumnus, cli­maxed by his record-smashing meet­ing in Seattle last year for President Arthur Hughes. 
Director {4-year Term) 
EDWARD F. O'TOOLE. Chica­go's contribution to the 1938-39 slates comes with a highly recom­mended background of activity in the Chicago Club. Ed received his LL.B. from Notre Dame in 1925. He is practicing law in Chicago, and has many opportunities to maintain his campus contacts, and they only have to knock once. That these contacts are varied is evidenced by the fact that Ed is an alumnus of not only the Law School but the Glee Club and the campus Council, Knights of Columbus. Originally Ed came from Amboy, Illinois. 
WENDELL T. PHH^LIPS. Wen­dell Phillips possesses a real distinc­tion as an alumnus in his connection with the great transition of Notre Dame. As one of two architects awarded degrees in 1912, as an old Sorin Haller when the Hall roster in­cluded such names as John F. O'Hara, 
K. K. Rockne, "Peaches" Granfield, Pedro de Landero, Walter Duncan, Gus Dorais, etc., he knew Notre Dame as it flourished under the late Father Cavanaugh. Today, as an able archi­tect with the Notre Dame architects, Maginnis and Walsh, in Boston, Wen­dell Phillips has kept pace from dream to reality with the develop­ment of the new Notre Dame—^under the Rev. John F. O'Hara, president; with Prof, Pedro de Landero, a prom­inent member, and with the memory of K. K. Rockne as the motive for the new^est building. 
THE PRESIDENT'S PAGE 
(Continued from Page 176) 

it to you in almost hopeless summary I have crystallized one objective. 
That is, that you, as alumni, realize the need which Notre Dame has for the full support of all alumni in ev­ery one of the great projects which have, until now, kept us in the fore­front of American education. 
I do not expect that we can solve the University's problems overnight. Nor will there ever be a cessation of progress with its constant need of physical nourishment. 
But until Notre Dame knows, from your constant, annual efforts, that you appreciate the problem, and that you are working for its solution; until you show by your own support, in proportion to your ability; and until you enlist everywhere the aid of friends who share the convictions that you, by the grace of God, learned at Notre Dame, neither the University nor the Alumni Associa­tion will enjoy that freedom which could so happily produce for you and for me, and for America, the life, liberty and pursuit of happiness for which our forefathers sought, and fought. 
My year \vill bring me the greatest satisfaction if I have convinced you that a miracle has been worked at Notre Dame. For it will naturally follow, if you see this wondrous work unfold, as it has been my privilege to see it, that you will not permit this miracle to suffer the same re­proach that met the fruits of another great miracle when the Miracle-Worker looked at the faithful, ap­preciative man whom His healing words had cleansed, and launched those significant words, "Where are the nine?" 
BLACKHAWK HOTELS 
Your guests will appre­ciate the beautiful mod­emness of Blackhawk Hotels — their gradous hospitality — their out­standing service and con­veniences, la Blackhawk Hotels you will find lux­urious comfort at moder­ate rates. 

BLACKHAWK HOTELS Located in 
DAVENPORT, IOWA . 
HOTEL BLACKHAWK 
HOTEL MISSISSIPPI 
HOTEL DAVENPORT 

BLACKHAWK 
PEORIA. III. . . HOTEL JEFFERSON ST. PAUL. MINN. HOTEL ST. PAUL MASON CITY, IOWA HOTEL HANFORD 
 HOTELS COMPANY 
\ 

mmmm 
Chesterfields are made of 
§inild ripe tobaccos... rolled in 
#|)1ure cigarette paper... the best 
ll'ingredients a cigarette can have 
W'orYoU...there's MORE PLEASURE in Chesterfield's milder better taste 
Copjrgh 1938 L Gcrrr s. MYEES TOBACCO Co. 







