The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
After reading the book in manu­

WNDU—From Golden Shore to Golden Dome 
script form the late Fulton Oursler re­
Ever hear of a,' radio station with 5,000 loyal listeners, a staff of 60, na­tional sponsors, and a broadcasting rad­ius of only half-a-mile? That's WNDU, "The Student Voice of Notre Dame," which has just begun its sixth year of operation. Formerly known as WND, the student-operated station was re­cently assigned new call-letters by the Federal Communications Commission. Until recently, the new call-letters des­ignated for the station in the shadow of the Golden Dome identified the Mari­time Commission ship, "Golden Shore,'' the FCC revealed. 
Affiliated with the Intercollegiate Broadcasting System, WNDU will be on the air 12 hours daily during the week and 16 hours on week-ends. Two newly installed transmitters carr\' the student-produced shows to the 14 resi­dence halls on the campus, but the pro­grams cannot be heard outside of the University boundaries. 
Well-balanced programming sched­ules provide the student listeners with news, sports, music, and discussion pro­grams sponsored by local and national organizations. The news staff supple­ments the wire service report with cam­pus news, and a transcription library' of 16,000 discs provides a great va­riety ol musical entertainment. 
Print Talks of Past President 
The words of one of the greatest orators and educators of the first quar­ter of the twentieth centur>' come to life again in "The Conquest of Life," just published by St. Anthony Guild Press of Paterson. New Jersey. The volume contains tlie notable lectures, addresses and conferences of the late Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.. president of the University of Notre Dame from 1905 to 1919, a scholar of national distinction. 
The addresses were collected and edited by Father John A. O'Brien, Ph. D., who has written a biographical sketch of the noted scholar and an ap­praisal of him as an orator and writer. For years thousands of people who heard Father Cavanaugh on important occa­sions in the life of the Church and of the Republic have been hoping to se­cure copies of the eloquent and scholar­ly addresses which made the Notre Dame educator the outstanding orator of his day. 
"We make every effort to fit our schedule to the interest and tastes of the students, something which the net­work stations can't attempt," declared Bill Ryan of Flushing, New York, man­ager of the student station. "Our engi­neers, salesmen, announcers, and writ­ers are all working in their spare time without any aid from the University," he added. 
Mr. Jerome J. Fallon, Director of Radio at Notre Dame and moderator of the student station, pointed out that "WNDU gives ever>' student a chance to trj' his skill at radio work in a pro­fessional-type studio with the best equipment and techniques. A number of our former staff members, who got their start at WNDU, are now estab­lished in successful professional ca­reers," he said. 
When the O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building at Notre Dame is completed next Spring, ^VNDU will move into modem, specially-designed studios. At present, the station is lo­cated in tlie tower of the University field house. 
Ryan and Fallon agreed that their chief problem right now is, "to get the announcers to remember the new call-letters." 
The volume has been prepared to bring to a still wider audience some­thing of the inspiration, counsel and wisdom which Father Cavanaugh's ad­dresses never failed to impart to his auditors. Because he dealt for the most part with great principles and truths, which are of perennial timeliness, his words as as vital, timely and relevant as when first uttered. 
In these lectures the Notre Dame educator re-e-xamines the comparative worth of religious and of secular edu­cation. He re-states enduring issues of culture and conscience in familiar con­temporary terms and offers to the in­dividual reader inspiration and guid­ance in the cultivation of a sturdy moral character and aid in solving life's basic problems. 
"The stirring eloquence of Father Cavanaugh's addresses," observes Fa­ther O'Brien, "has been preserved by his choice diction and lucid style through which his emotion throbs and his thought shines with an easy trans­parency." 
marked, "Few, if anv, writers in Amer­ica today can equal Father Cavanaugh in beauty of diction and brilliance of style. In his writing nobility of thought is wedded to beauty of expression — a combination hard to beat." 

Maritain Talks at Notre Dame 
Doctor Jacques Maritain, one of the world's most eminent contemporary philosophers, has recently delivered a series of four weekly lectures on the general subject of "Art and Poetry" under the auspices of the University of Notre Dame's Mediaeval Institute. Maritain, who has been named "the most important thinker of Europe to­day" by T. S. Eliot, is a visiting lecturer on the faculty of the Mediaeval Insti­tute. His lectures constitute a regular graduate course in the University's de­partment of philosophy. 
The internationally-known scholar, formerly French ambassador to the Va­tican, is a member of the Institute for Advanced Studies at Princeton Univer­sity. He has served on the faculty of the Catholic Institute of Paris and the Pon­tifical Institute for Advanced Studies in Toronto. 
Dr. Maritain is one of the world's leading authorities on the philosophy of Saint Thomas Aquinas and has lec­tured at Notre Dame in past years on a wide variety of philosophical subjects. The author of many books and treat­ises. Dr. Maritain in 1920 published his Art and Scholasticism which pre­sented to artists in all mediums a philo­sophical answer to aesthetic problems. 
The Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame, founded in 1946, constitutes a center for specialized research, histor­ical investigation, and advanced in­struction in all that concerns the grow­th and development of the life, thought and culture of the Middle Ages. 
VoL 30. No. 5 October. 1952 
James E. Anrntrang, '25, Editor 
John N. Cackley, Jr., *37, Associate Editor 
Richard P. Cody, *52, Assistant Editor 
This magazine is published bi-monlhly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
2 The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Band Works on Grid Programs 
The University of Notre Dame Band —"the marching Irish"—^is working overtime under its new director, Robert 
F. O'Brien, preparing colorful half­time programs for the 1952 football season. The 110-man marching band will present original pageants for the four Notre Dame home games, which began with the Pittsburgh contest on October 11, and the Navy game at Cleveland. 
Notre Dame fans annually deluge the band with requests for their fav­orite music, new songs written and dedicated to Notre Dame, and liberal advice on formations and arrangements. One of the many requests for more Irish music came from a woman in Janesville, Wisconsin, who regularly travels the two hundred miles to Notre Dame just to hear the band play the lilting tunes of Killarney. 
A completely Irish program, includ­ing a formation picturing a clay pipe that smokes, was presented at the Pitts­burgh game. Featured in the 1952 presentations will be the "Irish Pipers," 

ND Has Largest Frosh Class 
Nearly 5,100 students have answered the roll at the first classes of Notre Dame's 110th academic year. The total enrollment includes 1,500 freshmen— the largest first year class in the Uni­versity's history—and 350 graduate stu­dents. The fourteen campus residence halls, which make Notre Dame the world's largest boarding school for men, are fully occupied and several hundred upperclassmen have found it necessary to seek housing in nearby South Bend. 
The draft of young men into the armed forces has not substantially af­fected enrollment at Notre Dame for 1952-53, according to the Rev. Louis 
J. Thornton, C.S.C, Director of Ad­missions. "While the trend of declin­ing enrollment has set in at most col­leges and universities, Notre Dame is filled to capacity," Father Thornton said. 
Students from all of the 48 states, the 
U. S. territories and 22 foreign coun­tries swell Notre Dame's enrollment this Fall. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, President of the University, who was ordained at Notre Dame only nine years ago, issued a special greeting to the freshmen and other new students. 
an eight-man group of bagpipers, each standing eight feet tall in their plumed shakoes. The pipers were introduced last season, but now sport scarlet and green costumes imported from Scotland. 
O'Brien hastens to point out that the bagpipe was originally an Irish folk in­strument although generally associated with the Scotch. Long-range plans call for building up a 20-man bagpipe unit, but skilled pipers are hard to come by. Louis Snedden, a native of Scotland recently arrived in South Bend, is vol­unteer instructor of the unit. 
Another innovation with the Notre Dame Band for the 1952 season will be the use of two baton-twirling drum, majors. Mr. O'Brien e-xplained that the large size and complicated formations of the band make it almost impossible for one drum major to lead the organ­ization. Dick SLx of Quincy, Illinois, and Jerry Guido of Chicago, will lead the band on the field during 1952. 

Construction Started on 
Ground breaking ceremonies at Holy Cross Seminary recently marked the beginning of contruction for a new building providing additional facilities for seminarians studying for the priest­hood in the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
The Rev. Harold W. Riley, C.S.C, Superior of the seminary, turned the first spadeful of dirt in the presence of the other members of the seminary faculty and more than 150 student sem­
marians. 

Name Murphy Publicity Head 
James E. Murphy of Indianapolis, Indiana, has been apfiointed Director of Public Information at Notre Dame, it has been announced by the Very Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, President of the University. In his new jxjst Murphy will supervise the publicity of all University affairs except athletics. He succeeds Raymond J. Donovan who resigned to become Michigan editor of The South Bend Tribune. 
A 1947 graduate of Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters, Murphy formerly was news editor for The American Broadcasting Company in Chicago. For the past two years he has served on the national public rela­tions staff of The American Legion. 
Murphy is an Air Force veteran of World War II. He is married to the former Barbara Lill of Fort Wayne, 

 New Holy Cross Seminary 
Father Riley stated in his brief re­marks that "this building is the fulfill­ment of a dream of 25 years. The ex­pansion was made necessary by the in­creasing number of vocations for tlie priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross," he said. 
Scheduled for completion in January, 1953, the new pre-fabricated building will house a gymnasium, six classrooms and a laboratory for the use of the sem­inarians. 
Rev. Harold W. Riley, C.S.C, Breaking Ground for New Sdninary. 
October, 1952 


Profs Increased Over Summer 
Thirty-eight new faculty members have been appointed to teach at Notre Dame during 1952-53. In addition, twelve former members of the faculty will return to the campus following periods of study at other institutions and other assignments. 
Dean Joseph O'Meara, Jr., of the College of Law, who assumed his new post last June, is a native of Cincin­nati where he engaged in private law practice and ser\'cd for fifteen years as counsel for the Western and Southcm Life Insurance Company. He is a grad­uate of Xavier University and received his law degree from the University of Cincinnati. 

Kane Named Assistant Dean 
John J. Kane, assistant professor of sociolog)' at Notre Dame, has been ap­pointed assistant dean of the College of .\rts and Letters, it was announced recently by die Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C.. President of the Univer­sity. A member of the faculty since 1948, Dr. Kane will assist the Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., who was re­centlv named dean of the A. B. School. 
Dr. Kane studied at three Philadel­phia schools. He took his undergraduate work at Saint Joseph's College, re­ceived his Master's degree at Temple University in 1946, and was awarded his doctorate by the University- of Pennsylvania in 1950. A specialist on the family, race, and ethnic group re­lationships and inteiTeligious tensions. Dr. Kane has served as executive direc­tor of the South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table, National Conference of Christians and Jews, since October, 1950. He is the author of Marriage and the Family; a Catholic Approach. 

ALUMNUS Magazine 
Vol. 30. No. 5. October, 1952 Notre Dome, Ind. 

 Debaters Prepare for Season 
The "arguing Irish" are boning up on all aspects of the F.E.P.C. con­troversy since they must be prepared to defend both sides of the question in more than two hundred intercollegiate debates during the coming schoolyear. 
MASS INTENTIONS 
The Alumni (Foundation) Of­fice frequently receives letters of inquin' as to whether it is possible to have our readers' Mass Inten­tions taken care of here on the campus of the University. 
We are happy to announce that arrangements have been made whereby both High and Low Mass Intentions will be dis­charged by the Holy Cross Fathers assigned to the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. 
You arc invited to mail your Mass Intentions to: 
Rev. Edward J. Finnegan, 
C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
The Notre Dame debaters are led-by Alfred C. DeCrane of Cleveland, Ohio, who recently was notified of his selection as national individual debat­ing champion by Tau Kappa Alpha, the national collegiate debating society. 

Gurian Writes Book on Russia 
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Head of the Committee on International Relations at the University of Notre Dame, has written a new book entitled, "Bolshe­vism—An Introduction to Soviet Com­munism." He has just returned to the campus after a summer of teaching at the University of Heidelberg in Ger­many. 
A native of Leningrad, Russia, Dr. Gu­rian was a lecturer at the Berlin School of Politics in 1934 when the publica­tion of his book, "Hitler and the Chris­tians," aroused the wrath of the Nazis. He was forced to flee to Switzerland, where he remained until he came to the United States and joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1937. 
Dr. Gurian is a member of the Com­mitee on Slavic Studies established by the American Council of Learned So­cieties. As a member of the committee he also serves on the editorial board of the "Current Digest of the So%'iet Press," a weekly publication which translates into English all important articles ap­pearing in the Soviet press. 


Dooley Advises on Draft, Jobs 
Impending military' service should not deter the college senior from mak­ing job contacts and participating in inten'iews with prospective employers according to William R. Dooley, place­ment director of the University of Notre Dame. 
"Most employers now, figuring that the draft and ROTC unit.<; arc going to be around for yearsJojcome, jire pro­jecting their employment of college men two or three years into the future when these men will be ready to go to work permanently," Dooley said. 
"Out of the hundreds of cmplo^-ment interviewers who came to the campus last year," Dooley added, "there weren't more than half a dozen who told us that they wanted to talk to men who were free of obligations to the armed forces," Employers reason now that if they can give the college graduate three or four months of training in industry' before the'man enters military ser\'ice, so much the better, Doolev indicated. 
Entered as Second Class matter 
Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post Office, 
Xotre Dame, Ind., under the act of 
AuR. 24, 1912. 

• 9  
•Uf  
'>f90  
•'P.­ 

Return postage guaranteed 


