The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Vol. 44 No. 6 
November-December 1956 
James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor 
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37 Managing Editor 
IN THIS ISSUE . . . 

Notre Dame Appoints 59 New Members to the Faculty. Page 2. 
^ Father Hesburgh Named Vatican Delegate to 
U. N. Conference. Page '. 
General Chapter of Holy Cross Priests and Brothers in Rome. Page 4. 
Engineering Self-Study Sur\ey Conducted by Special Committee. Page 12. 
Construction has begun on Notre Dame's §4,000,000 building project. Two residence halls and another dining hall arc scheduled for completion in 18 months. Sec story on page 2. 
s


THREE HALLS BEGUN Father Moore Names New IN $4 MILLION PLAN Faculty Men, Geology Head 
Notre Dame's new $4,000,000 build­ing project is under^vay \vith construc­tion already started on two new resi­dence halls and a new dining hall. These structures wi\] be erected on the 'east campus' and in all probability will be utilized by members of tlie freshman class, beginning in 1958. The dming liall will be located just north of Farley Hall while tlie two new residences are being placed to the east of the Student Infirmar)'. 
Keenan Hall, named in memory of the late James F. Keenan, Jr., is being provided through a gift from Mr. and Mrs. James Keenan, Sr., Fort Wajoie, Indiana. Although die majority of re­cent buildings at Notre Dame have been given by generous benefactors, one of the two new residence halls and die dining halls is being built through borrowed funds. Mr. Keenan is a member of Notre Dame's 1913 class. 
The three buildings have been de­signed by Ellerbe and Co., St. Paul, Minn. About 1000 persons will be ac­commodated in the new dining hall and it will be air-conditioned through­out. A chapel will be erected joining the two residence halls and ^I'ill be used by the 600 residents of both halls. 

Six Room Cafeteria 
An added feature of the new dining hall •4\'ill be the six rooms serving cafe­teria st)'le by which it will be possible to convert four of diese into one large seating space. The basement will have ample storage and deep freeze areas. Notre Dame's present dining hall was erected in 1927 for a student body at that time totalling 2,700. The current enrollment is 5,600 which has over­taxed the dining hall for several years. 
These additional facilities wiU pro­vide housing accommodations for many Notre Dame undergraduates now living oflf-campus and ^«11 permit them to share more fully in die University's spiritual, academic and social life. It is contemplated tliat construction for the new buildings will require approxi­mately 18 months. 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Xotre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the PostofHce, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
Noire Dame Alumnus^ Nov.-DeCj 1956 
The appointment of a new depart­ment head and 59 new faculty mem­bers at Notre Dame for the 1956-57 school year has been announced by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, vice president for academic affairs. 
Professor Raymond C. Gutschick was named head of the department of geology succeeding Professor Archie J. MacAlpin who will devote liis full time to teaching and research. Dr. Gut­scliick, a specialist in sedimentar)' geol­ogy, has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1947. 
Rev. Joseph H. Fichter, S.J., an authority on parish sociology, will serve as a visiting professor at Notre Dame during the coming year. He is head of the department of sociology at Loyola University of the South, New Orleans. Also joining the Notre Dame sociology department is Dr. Robert J. Schmitt, a psychiatrist, who will lecture on social psychiatry and child development. 
An authority on the history of the French restoration period. Rev. Guii­laume Bertier de Sauvigny of the CatlQ olic Institute of Paris, will be a visiting professor of histor)' during the fall semester. 
Colonel Edwin W. Crenelle, USA, former chief of staff at Fort Devins, Mass., has been appointed professor of military science and commanding offy, cer of Notre Dame's Army ROTC unifc^ Eugene Kalman has been named to a full professorship in the department of engineering mechanics. 
Rev. Frank J. O'Hara, C.S.C, for­mer dean of science at Kings College, AVilkes Barre, Pa., has been appointed an associate professor of biolog)' at Notre Dame. Other newly named assoj ciate professors are Hcnr)' Hare Carter, modem languages, and Lt. Col. Harvey 
A. Feehan, USMC, naval science. 
Twenty-five assistant professors are (continued on page 15) I 

Cleofas Calleros (right), Mexican border representative of the National Catholic Welfaty Conference, presents a copy of a unique book, "The History of the Mission of Our Lady of Guadalupe^" to University Librarian Victor Schacfcr (left) and Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, CS.C (center), executive vice president. Calleros is co-author of the book which commem­orates the 300th anniversary of the mission near EI Paso, Tex., which played an important part in the exploration and settlement of northern Mexico and the southwestern United States. The Notre Dame presentation was made possible by Messrs. Gus, Leo and Ruben Momscn of EI Paso, all alimini of the University. Another copy of the book has been hand­printed on vellimi for presentation to Pope Pius XIL 

J ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
N.D. President Is Delegate 
Officers 


To U.N- Atom-Peace Meeting 
DR. LEO D. O'DONXELL, '17.. 
Honorary President 

•JJosEPH I. O'NEILL, JR., '36 President JoH.v E. McIxTYRE,'31 First Vice-President ROBERT H. GORE, JR., '31 
Second Vice-President JAMES L. FERSTEL, '48 Third Vice-President 
JAMES E. ARMSTRO.NC, '25 , Director and Secretary 

* Directorsto 1957 
JOH.V E. McIxTYRE, '31 206 E. Tutt St., South Bend, Indiana JA.MES L. FERSTEL, '48 111 W. Washington St., Chicago 2, III. ROBERT H. GORE, JR., '31 ....4901 Ocean Dr., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, JR., '36 (^ ....209 N. Big Spring St., Midland, Te.\as 
Directorsto 1958 
JOHN W. BREX.VAN, '27 .American Blower Corp., Detroit, Mich. 
J. PATRICK CANNY, '28 14700 Clifton Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio PATRICK J. FISHER, '36 605 E. 42nd St., Indianapolis, Ind. 

'JOSEPH E. WHALEN, '29 Hotel Fort Des Moines, Dcs Moines, Iowa 

Directorsto 1959 
OSCAR J. DORWIN, '17 Texas Company 135 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y. 

EDMOND R. ILVGGAR, '38 Haggar Company ;2 6113 Lemmon Ave., Dallas, Texas 
EUGENE M . KENNEDY, '22 148 So. Orange Dr., Los Angeles, Calif. FR,\NCIS L. L\-i-DE.v, '36 701 College Highway, Evansville, Ind. 


Chairmen of tlie 1956 Committees 

JOSEPH  I. O'NEILL  Executive  
ROBERT  H . GORE, JR  Club Activities  
JAMES L. FERSTEL  Class Activities  
JoH.N E. MCINTVRE  .  

Foundation, Alumni Fund, Gifts 
JA.MES L. FERSTEL 
Preparatory School Relations 
JOHN W. BRE.N.VA.V .. 
Job Counseling and Placement 

^ PATRICK CANNY . Constitution JOHN E. MCI.NTYRE Inter-Alumni Affairs JOSEPH E. WHALEN . — 
Prestige and Public Relations 
J. PARICK CANNY Budget Committee JOH.V W. BRE.N.VAN . Resolutions PATRICK J. FISHER 

Religion and Citizenship ^)SEPH E. WHALEN Nominations 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, president of the University, has been appointed a Vatican delegate to a United Nations conference currently underway to organize an international "atom-for-peace" agency. 
Also representing the Vatican at the sessions in New York City is Dr. H. Marston Morse, a noted mathematician and professor at the Institute for Ad­vanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey. Morse received an honorary doctorate from Notre Dame last June. 
Lewis L. Strausse, chairman of the Atomic Enei^' commission, in a wel­coming address to delegates of nearly 90 nations, described the conference as "perhaps the largest in the entire his-tor}' of international collaboration." 
Father Hesburgh is also active in another phase of atomic research and development. He is a member of the board of directors of the Midwest Uni­versities Research association, a non­profit corporation formed by a group of midwest educational institutions to conduct nuclear research. The Atomic Energy commission has authorized MURA to design and construct "the world's finest and most powerful ultra­high-energy accelerator." The site for the installation has not yet been de­termined. > 
By appointment of President Eisen­hower, Father Hesburgh is a member of the National Science board as well as a member of the Board of Visitors at the U. S. Naval Academy. He re­cently returned from an extended tour of virtually all the South American countries in h b capacity as vice presi­dent of the Institute of International Education. 


Dates to Remember 
Universal Conununion Simday, Dec. 9, 1956. Universal Notre Dame Night, April 29, 1957. Class Reunion Weekend, Jime 7-8-9, 1957. 

Twelve former Notre Dame students studying for the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross received their habits as novices in the Novitiate at Jordan, Minnesota, on August 
13. First row: David A. Novak, Johnstown, Pa.; David M. Kiikeary, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Robert 
C. Ware, Jr., Newburgh, Indiana; William G. Blum, Jr., Pittsburgh, Pa.; Thomas A. Cam­panini, Reynoldsville, Pa. Second row: Thomas N. Langdon, Gcrmantown, Pa.; Michael E. Catanzaro, Jr., Pittsburgh, Pa.; Gervasc C Saksefski, South Milwaukee, Wis.; John H. How-icy) Jr., Decatur, Illinois; John E. Derwent, Chicago, III.; James F. Skulski, Bcllwood, HI.; John J. Fitzpatrick, Dansvillc, New York. 
^•V •* 


'^.r
^ 

Noire Dame Alumnus, Nou.-Dec, 1956 

Five U.S. Superiors Named At 1956 General Chapter 
The appointnu-ni of live major .sii­jjeriors of the priests and broihers of the Conjiregation of Holy Cross in the United States was announced l)v Ven' Rev. Christopher J. O'Toole. C.S.C.'. superior general, at the close of the \9'i6 geiural ciiapti'r held in Rome in July. h was also announced that Brothers of Holy Cross in this country will be reorganized into a Mid«fsi pio\ince and two-vice-provinces in the east and .south-west. 
Foity-iiine ])riesis antl broiher.s. eighteen of ihein traveling from the United .States, participated in the Gen­cral C:hapier .session of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross which were cli-nia.Ned by an address given by Pope Pius XII at Castel Gandolfo. 
Rev. Theodore J. .Mehling, C.S.C, was re-named to a second six-year tenn as jjiovincial of the jjiiest.s' Indiana ])rovince with headc|uai"ters in .South Hend. Rev. George S. DePrizio, C:.S.C.. 
4 Notre Danie Alumttus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 
clean of studies at King's College. Wilkes liane. Pa., was ap|Jointed ]jro­vincial of the priests' Eastern province succeeding Re\-. Jaiiies \X. Connerioii. 
C.S.C. North Easion. Ma.ss. 
Brother Donalus .Schmitz. C^.-S.C, principal of St. Francis High .School. Mountainview, Calif., was designated pro\incial of the Holy Cross Brothers' Midwest pro\ince. Brolher Ephiem O'Dwyer. C.S.C, Notre Dame. Ind., fonner provincial of the Brothers' U. S. [jrovince, became head of the new vice province in the East. Brother John Baptist Titzer. C.S.C. Notre Dame, In­diana, assistant provincial, was named head of the new south-west province. 

Father O'Toole also appointed two -Americans to his stall" as assistants gen­eral: Rev. Bernard Ransing, C.S.C. Lancaster, Pa., and Brother Theophane Schniitt, C.S.C, Decatur, Ind. Rev. Edward Heston, C.S.C, will continue in the oflice of Procurator General. 
The Holy Cross Brothers' newly des­ignated Midwest Province includes the states of Minnesota. Wisconsin. Iowa. Illinoi.s. Michigan. Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky. The new Eastern vice prov­ince embraces the New England States New ^'ork, New Jersey, Pennsylvani;' Delaware. Manland. the District of Columbia. Virginia and West Virginia. The Soiith-West \ice pro\ince covers the reiiiaining .states. 
On July 22. 1956 His Holliuss. Pojir Plus XIl. rccflvcd In an i:\cluslri' aud^ cncf at Caslfl Gandolfo the Fallifis and Brothers of the Coniirc^ation of Holy Cross gathered In Rome for tlif Gtniral Chajitir. He dcllverrd the foUoinnii address to the iirouj): 
Matters of moment lor your Con­gregation and. let Us add. for tljs Church have called you together, be"­loved sons, in General Chapter. For how can the Church not be particu­larly concerned with whatever will help lo strengthen and render more efficient that precious instiiiment given lo Her by God in Religious Ordei^ and Clongregalions for the consolidation of 
^'Kl <^-.'>  
.xmt %  
-,.Vl  

Pope Pius XII and W-ry Rev. Christopher J. 0"Toolc. C.S.C. (slandins ne.\t (o the I'ope on his ri.sht) .Superior General of the Conirrei^ation of Holy Cross, witli delegates \viio attended the General Chapter in Rome. Standini;: Rev. Jules Poitras. Rev. Hector Le.i;cr. Brother Leopold Taillon. Brother Donatus -Schniitz. Rev. Eustache Gaj^non. Brother John Baptist Titzcr. Rev. Edward Heston. Rev. Howard Kenna. Brother Narcisse -Meloche. Rev. Bernard E. Ransini;. Rev. Theodore -M. Hesburgh, Rev. Richard \"ince­lelte. Rev. Bernard I. Mullahy. Brotlier Dominic Ejder. Rev. Gervais Lapierre. Brother Kieran Ryan. Brother .Andrew SlelTes, Rev. .Xlfred McClure, Brother Dominicpie Leclerc. Brother Bonaveniurc Poley, Brother Dacian Corbctt, Brother Fauslin Laplante. Rev. Joseph .M. Rick. Brother Ephreni O'Dwyer. Rev. Richard J. Grinnn, Brother William Mans;. Rev. Theodore J. .Mehlins. Rev. Laur­ent Lapahne. Brother .•MfoI^so Couieau. Brother Jude Cosiello. Brother Gervais Leduc, Brother Raynald Gou,^eon. Brother Theo­phane .Sclnniit. Brother Godefroy Danis. Rev. .Maurice Lafond. Kneelini;: Rev. James W. Connerton. Rev. \Villiam F. .McGinnis. Rev. Georse S. DePrizio. Rev. Henri Bernard. Rev. Edward F. -McCarthy. Rev. Pierre -M. Poisson. Rev. Henri Jaudion, Brother .Andre Bouchereau. Kvv, Clement Cormier. Brother Fernand .Madore, Rev. John J. Burke. Brother Elmo Bransby. Brother Jean-Baptiste Chappron. Brother Coluiuba Curran. Brother Edmunt Hunt. 
tlie Faith at iioine and its contitiiions by men of competence and e.\[jertence. ctaiing for knowledge fiave always .giowth thfoiighoiu the fai-fliing Mis-and the means sought and weighed been a weapon cleverly wielded bv the *sion fields? Hence, we were hapijy to that would increase the friiitfiilness of enemies of God's C^hinch. It is so to­accede to tlie teeniest tiiade of Us by those activities for the good of souls. day. Catholic .scliolars tniist be pre­yoiM' revered .Superior General iti the They are indeed many and varied: jJared to meet the enemy on his own natne of all the Capitiilanis to receive and the nature of each will naturally ground. Illumined in their task bv the yoit today, and thus enjoy the opi«>rl-be a guide and measure of the special splendoins of divine Faith they will nity of expressing very sitiiply atid formation your members will have to demonstrate beyond doubting that briefly a few ihoiiglits suggested by receive. 'I'otir work in universities calls Truth is one and its multiple rays, if 
j^he occasion. 
for men well-versed in the .-Xrts and followed with humble sincerity will in­Let Us say at once that it was e.x­
.Sciences. Philosophy and Theology, evitably lead one back to Him. "in who in a spirit of holy zeal consecrate Whom are all the treasures of wisdom 
tretiiely gratifying to know that a wise themselves to a ))ersevering pursuit of and knowledge"' (Col. 2. 3i. 
and discerning preparation has pre­high scholarshi]). so that the school 
ceded the openitig of this General This thought summons up happv they serve may become a cetitre radiat­
Chainer. Over the ])asi months special memories of a visit We made just 20 
ing that life which comes from true 

commissions have been stiidyitig the years ago to your Notre Dame in 
wisdom for the benefit of the national 

agenda: the entire field of your Con-.'\merica. and it is consoling for Us to communitv. Knowledge and man's 
-gregation's activities has been sinveved hear of the steady progress and moiint-
Notre Dfiinf Alumnus, Xov.-Dec 1956 5 
ing prestige it achieves as year follows year. 
But your scliools wall do more than reflect scholarship. Youth has need not only of a sane and sound culture. It must come to develop a calm and well-balanced judgment, capable of discern­ing between truth and error, good and evil, justice and its failure. Firmly grounded in convictions planted by Faith and Reason, they must be strong enough not to be carried away by false illusions or violent passion or a fickle public opinion that measures ever)'­tliing by the rule of immediate, appar­ent success. Such youth the Church with full reason ecpects to see passing with sure step from the portals of your schools. The supernatural truths of Christ's teaching and example have be­come the consistent motivation of their thoughts and conduct, and you may confidently look forward to their being a joy to His Spouse, the Church, and an asset to Society. 
Now the task of moulding youth must begin early, cannot begin too early; and consequently, one under­stands the inunense importance of the work done in die Secondary Schools, where the adolescent, entering on a period of transition and powerful pulsa­tions, senses perhaps for the first time the smoke of battle, glimpses tlie proud nobility of victor)', and when, if he is not to falter, to compromise or surren­der, he is in dire need of a conscience diat reflects the truth steadily • and clearcut, and a will widi steel in it. That is why We have followed with special interest the b^^nings and rapid evolution of your Notre Dame in Rome, conducted by the Brotlters of your Congr^ation. How happy We are to hear tliat expansion is the order of the day for that school. 
Your service of the Church, beloved 

Sons, We know is not confined to edu­cation among the faithful. We have confided to your apostolic zeal distant and difficult Missions in India and Pakistan, where a chief care of your Superiors will be to raise and to train a native clergy; and you have gener­ously responded to a pressing need of the Church in some countries of South America. No one can fail to appreciate the heavy burden resting on higher Su­periors to prepare men for all these ministries. The spiritual formation of . your candidates. We note, you have placed first on the agenda of your Chapter. That is where it belongs. 
True, if priests are ordained for men (Hebr., 5, 1), it is for the men of their own time; and there must consequently be a certain flexibility and adaptation in the formation given to candidates. 
But in no age is tliere ever any substii tute for the fundamental requirements established by Christ: "if any man will come after Me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and fol­low Me" (Luc. 9, 23). The appealing admonition of Paul to Timothy has a true ring in every generation: "be thou^, an e.xample to the faithful in speechfi| in conduct, in charity, in faith, in chas­tity" (1 Tim. 4, 12). And discussion of the needed spiritual formation of the beginners in religious life will awaken, as it were, a renewal of fervour in all, that is so necessarj' to spiritual and religious men. 
And noW; beloved sons. We turn Ou? P gaze to the Virgin Mother, Mary Queen of the Apostles. To her maternal care We entrust the prayers ^Ve ofi'er for God's blessings on die sessions and the resolutions of your General Chap­ter. Mother at once of God and men, she will delight to have her Son, HeacL I of His Body (Col. 1, 18), shower upo ^ you. His members, all the precious gifts you most need, especially the gift of knowing Him, Who is love, and of liv­ing by Him (1 Jo., 4, 9). 
As a token of Our own paternal affection it is a real joy for Us to im­part to you, beloved sons, and to all members of the Congregation of HO1K> Cross, Our Apostolic Blessing. 

Father Ca\'anaugh's recent visit to the Sperry Gyroscope Company, Division of Sperry Rand Corporation, New York, enabled the fol­loinng alumni to have an informal get-together. Topics of discussion were the recent building additions, and the school's enrollment problems.. Standing, left to right are: Bob Hall, Joe Lewis, John WietholT, Leon Gardner, Fred Danner, Dan McCarthy, Gerard L. Hanlcy, Joe Stasch, Stan Stasch, Rudy Schreitmueller, Frank Lavelle. Seated, left to right, are: Bob Ingram, Harold Hcinemann, Father John J. Ca\-anaugh, C.S.C., Al Lcsmez, F. J. McCarthy, N.D. Foundation Staff Director in New York City. 
m mm 
^>^ 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dee., 1956 
The emergence of nationally recog­

nized Notre Dame leaders in areas that 
mold public thinking. 
^ZiSUo^UcJ, Giwmie^Ui, ^^Z^ 
The increasing value of the Notre 
AVe are entering, in 1957, the 10th anniversar>' year of the Notre Dame Foundation. » At its beginning, a $25,000,000 goal was set for its first decade. 
Almost $20,000,000 has been received to date, and in many respects the pro­gram has succeeded beyond the hopes of its founding fathers. 
That is not my tlieme in these few words. 
Jim Armstrong I am concerned 
am that there still remains among some alumni and some friends a conviction, 

^vhether strong or modified, that the 
foundation program is somehow alien to the University and to the Alumni Association. There is the implicit hush that accompanies tabu, contagion, or scandal, even though the Notre Dame pattern differs in no way—except per­haps in the modesty of its objectives— from the program of hundreds of pri­
g'ate colleges and universities. 
You remember the stor>' of King Midas. All that he touched turned to gold. And he became so lost in the golden touch that its miraculous power destroyed all that he really loved or sought. 
That, I sometimes believe, is the concept of the Foundation program in 
"•the minds of too many. And because so much of Notre Dame's progress lias been tangible, made possible by money, I am not actually amazed by the con­cept, but I am disturbed that it per­sists without the analysis of reasoning that would quickly give it proper per­spective. 
V The truth of the matter is that Notre Dame is the diametric opposite of the Midas stor)'. 
All the gold that Notre Dame touches turns to people—^}'Oung men whose promise is implemented here for the moral and responsible perfonnance ^omorrow will require of its leaders. The Nieuwland Science building is a magnificent monument to Rev. Julius 
A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., one of the na­tion's great scientists. The money spent in its construction could stand on that identification alone. 
But its true value lies in the proper id vital facilities it provides for train­

^nd ing other Nieuwiands and multiplying the potentials of a future that will de­mand far more than even Father Nieuwland's great mind could bring from limited tools by his chemical legerdemain. 
The O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts building stands as an im­pressive endorsement of the primacy of these studies in a university, and to the contributions already made at Notre Dame in their pursuit. 
But its true value—and the incen­tive of its generous donors—lies in the rich creativity its facilities will implant in the thought molding of years ahead, which will demand a greater grasp of the dignity of man as the challenges to that dignity multiply in the growing intensity of a material world. 
The current stress on increasing fac­

ulty salaries is an effort to bring to the 
laymen on the University faculty some 
proportionate economic benefits for 
themselves and their families, modesty 
comparable to those long since afforded 
to their neighbors. 
But it is not alone a matter of clothes and cars and college for their cliildren, or even books and travel. It is to pro­vide a sense of security and progress, and a well-being at home,' which re­leases the fine minds of our teachers for the objective, selfless and always demanding process of shaping the young minds for tomorixjw. 
Unless we stop the economic erosion of our present teachers, we face an in­tellectual dust-bowl in our colleges and universities. Sacrifice and the pioneer spirit need not be lost, but there must be continued incentive. 
If only the Foundation is in your mind, you may well fall victim to the fallacy of the Midas myth. 
But before you allow this misleading concept to prevail think of these: The rise in Notre Dame's prestige and public relations since 1947. The increasing publicity in academic achievement since 1947. The great increase in active Local Alumni Clubs since 1947. The N'astly improved local activities of Notre Dame Clubs since 1947. 
The stepped-up tempo of individual alumni achievement in business, indus­try and professional life since 1947. 
Dame diploma in all walks of life. The stature of the University as re­flected in its comparisons with other colleges and universities, in grants (e.g. the Ford Foundation) and surveys 
(e.g. the American Alumni Council). The greatly increased significance of 

industrial and government research contracts. 
And many other manifestations of development that each may note in hb own area of interest. 
It is for these deep and significant developments in a critical era of our history that Notre Dame has had to seek outside support. And it is from this support of alumni and friends that our already great contributions to these developments have come. 
And Notre Dame seeks such aid for one other great purpose, phrased by Robert Bums, "the glorious privilege of being independent." 
—]im Armstrong 

John Kreuz Awarded Chemistry Fellowship 
John Anthony Kreuz of Orchard Park, New York, is one of the first two winners in a planned series of Toni-Gillette Fellow­ships for graduate chemistry students as announced recently by Raymond E. Reed, vice-president in charge of tech­nical operations for The Toni Company. Kreuz did his under­
John Kreuz 

graduate work at Saint Bonaventure University in Olean, 
N. Y. 
The Toni-Gillette Fellowships pro­vide $3,500 annually to each institu­tion. "These grants to the imivenities are used to support the work of the award winner and can be used in part for any purpose within the discretion of the school to offset its administrative e-xpenses. "It is hoped," said Reed, "that our fellowship programs will en­courage more qualified students to do post graduate work in the field of chemistry and, on a long range basis, contribute to the alleviation of the se­rious technical manpower shortage in this coimtry." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Noo.-Dec, 1956 
l^t 
fjn'f 

Father Lauck Addresses Educators 
A member of Notre Dame's teaching staff was one of the principal speakers at a meeting of 4,000 New England educators who attended the 47th Annual Teachers' Institute of the Boston Archdiocese. The professor from Notre Dame was Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C, who spoke on "This Bewildering Subject, Art." Other speakers included Dr. Benjamin Fine, education editor for the New York Times, Very Rev. Joseph Maxwell, S.J., President of Boston College, and Dr. Glenn O. Blough, of the University of Mary­land. Father Lauck also spoke for a special Labor Day broadcast at Boston's Station WNAC. 
Bishop Sheen Keynotes Vocation Institute 
A televised address by Bishop Fulton J. Sheen keynoted the tenth anniversary Vocation Insti­tute held on the Notre Dame campus this sum­iner. The nationally known prelate, who is direc­tor of the Society for the Propagation of the Faith as well as Auxiliary Bishop of New York, spoke at the first business session. 
More than 200 priests. Brothers, Sisters and la3Tnen engaged in fostering religious vocations attended the Institute. Other nationally promi­nent figures on the program included Rev. Charles E. Coughlin, pastor of the Shrine of the Little Flower, Royal Oak, Mich.; Sister M. Mad­eleva, C.S.C, president of St. Mary's College, "Fostering Vocations on the College Level"; Rev. Joseph H. Fichter, S.J., the Loyola Univer­sity sociologist, New Orleans, La., "How Can Sociology Aid the Vocation Apostolate"; and Rev. Robert Hartnett, S.J., University of De­troit, 'T)emocracy and the Religious Vocation." 
Father Cavanaugh Speaks to AAC 
Too many of the nation's eight million college graduates suffer from "intellectual malnutri­tion" and "cultural anemia" once they leave the campus of their alma mater. Rev. John J. Cav­anaugh, C.S.C., Director of the Notre Dame Foundation, said in an address to the 41st gen­eral conference of the American Alumni Council at the French Lick-Sheraton Hotel. 
The colleges themselves are largely to blame. Father Cavanaugh said, because they have treated their alumni "only as extra-curricular entities." Alumni have cheered at football games and they have proved to be a loyal source of financial support. Father Cavanaugh observed, 
but their schools generally "have failed to help 
them advance intellectually." 
The United States has experienced two world 
wars and a major economic depression "because 
of the misuse or failure to develop our resources 
of mind and heart," Father Cavanaugh said. He 
warned that America faces eventual defeat un­
less it marshals its intellectual power in the 
battle for men's minds. 

Civil Engineers Honor Grads 
The Notre Dame Student Chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers will feature a weekly tribute display of former civil engi­neering students at Notre Dame. It will include a brief biographical sketch and photographs of the individual. The work is under the direction of Marvin E. Hoffman, a senior from Maybee, Mich. 
Chariot Frescos Received 
Notre Dame has received two new murals done in the medium of fresco by Jean Chariot, the distinguished muralist from Hawaii and 16 students. He and 16 students are collaborating on a large fresco for the north wall of the Stu­dent Lounge in the O'Shaughnessy College of Liberal and Fine Arts Building. The subject of the mural wiU be "Sculpture at Notre Dame." 
On the third floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall, a second fresco has been painted in the Faculty Lounge under Chariot's supervision. It is the work of Sister Ejmnard, O.P., Portland, Oregon. 
Father Hughes on Catholic Hour 
Rev. Philip Hughes, the noted British histo­rian teaching at Notre Dame, recently was in­terviewed on The Catholic Hour over the NBC Television Network. Generally regarded as the outstanding historian of the Church writing in English, Father Hughes was one of four out­standing personalities featured in The Catholic Hour's current "Close-Up" series. The program is produced by the National Council of Catholic Men. 
Father Hughes joined the Notre Dame fac­ulty in January, 1955, as a visiting professor and has since become a permanent faculty member. He is one of several internationally recognized scholars and artists who have come to the cam­pus imder the auspices of the university's Dis­tinguished Professors Program. 
[f^itrtPiif: 
\i' 
& 

8 Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 
New Book by Dr. Croleau 
The expanding federal credit union system in the United States is the subject of a new book by Dr. John T. Croteau, professor of economics. 
The Federal Credit Union: Policy and Practice, 
the first study of its kind, examines the unique nature of this financial institution whose 3,500,000 members are organized in some seven thousand local units with assets totalling more than one billion dollars. Harper and Brothers, New York City, is the publisher. 
Prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1953 Dr. Croteau taught at the Catholic Univer­sity of America, Washington, D. C. He is the author of numerous articles on cooperative credit and is a member of the American Eco­nomic Association. 
Political Scientists Hear Dr. Kertesz 
Optimism due to the friendlier behavior of Russian representatives since Stalin's death should be tempered by our experience \vith Soviet Communist tactics over a period of four decades. Dr. Stephen Kertesz, head of the University of Notre Dame's Committee on Inter­national Relations, declared in an address on "Soviet and American Negotiating Behavior" at the 52nd annual meeting of the American Po­litical Science Association, Washington, D. C. 
Kertesz, a former Hungarian minister to Italy, conceded that the "whistle-stopping and baby-Wssing methods of globetrotting Soviet repre­sentatives, more participation in social life by Soviet diplomats, and 'diplomacy by reception' in Moscow may create a better atmosphere for international negotiations." But he cautioned that the Kremlin's liberalizing tendencies "have not yet reached the point of no return." 
Architects Discuss Parish Planning 
A Seminar for Architects on Parish Planning^ was held at the Morris Inn in July. Architects and artists as well as pastors contemplating building of a new church attended the sessions. Rev. Michael A. Mathis, C.S.C, director of the Liturgy Program at Notre Dame, was general chairman of the seminar and Frank Montana, head of the university's department of archi­tecture, served as moderator. 
"Reciemptive Incarnation"—^2nd Edition 
A second edition of Redenvptive Incarnation, a college religion textbook by Rev. Albert Schlitzer, C.S.C, has been published by the University of Notre Dame Press. The book em­phasizes the use of primary source materials in the discovery of what faith teaches. It is one of four volumes in the University Religion Series which has been adopted by more than 100 Cath­olic colleges and universities throughout the country. 
A specialist in sacramental theology. Father Schlitzer was educated at the University of Notre Dame and the Gregorian University in Rome where he received doctorates in phdlos­ophy and sacred theology. He has also studied at George Washington University in the na­tion's capital. 
Two Lingard F*llo«vsiiips Awarded 
Rev. Eugene V. Clark of New York City emd 
Rev. Marvin R. O'Connell of Minneapolis, Minn., 
are the first two recipients of the Dr. John 
Lingard Fellowship in history established earlier 
this year at the University of Notre Dame. 
Their selection for the grants has been an­
nounced by Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C, deem 
of Notre Dame's Graduate School; They will 
pursue advanced studies in history under the 
direction of Rev. Philip Hughes. 
Dr. John Lingard, after whom the fellowship 
was named, was the pioneer scientific histoiran 
of England and a Catholic priest. 
Refugee Tells of Russian Militarism 
Russia today remains as militant as ever ac­
cording to L. Labedz, a Polish specialist in 
Soviet affairs. 

Since the demise of Stalin and the ascendancy 
of Kruschchev, the Kremlin has only shifted its 
campaign of conquest from the United States 
and Europe to "more fertile ground" in Asia, 
Africa and Latin America, Labedz writes. 
A political refugee from his own country now 
living in London, Labedz gives his views in 
"Russia after Krushchev" in the Octoljer issue 
Revieio of Politics, a quarterly magazine pub­
lished at Notre Dame. 
Dr. Niemeyer Probes Russian Mind 
Communication between the Kremlin and the 
leaders of the western world is extremely diflB­
cult because the Communist mind "shares 
neither truth nor logic nor morality with the 
rest of manldnd," according to Dr. Gerhart Nie­
meyer, professor of political science at Notre 
Dame. 

Professor Niemeyer gives his views in his new book. An Inquiry into Soviet Mentality. Prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty last year, the German-bom political scientist was a research analyst for New York's Council on Foreign Re­lations and a planning advisor for the State De­partment. He is one of 27 experts on Com­munism who were recently asked by the House un-American Activities Committee to evaluate Russia's current foreign policy. 
Editor Stresses Spirituality 
The healthy spiritued life of the religious of our country will determine to a large extent the • future of the Church in America, Very Rev. Msgr. Francis J. Lally, editor of The Pilot, Bos­ton's archdiocesan paper, said in an address to more than 800 nuns representing 155 communi­ties at the close of a week-long Institute of Spir­ituality held at Notre Dame. Monsignor LaUy asserted that application of the principles that guide and rule our spiritual life "is vastly more significant" than mere loiowledge of them. 
"Unhappily," the priest-editor observed, "it is possible for even the most precious principles and the most valued virtues to lose their proper luster and to become, by the pressure of routine, something quite different from what their na­ture suggests." He blamed the corroding forces and perils of contemporary society for damag­ing "those very vows which, like a spiritual tripod, support the religious life itself." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 > 5 
urer, Poyntelle- Downing, L'14, c|fe 

AfeuAl al tUe. ... Hayes & Downing, Decatur, Illinois ;g Executive Secretary, Thomas L. Mur-| ray, L'51, who is associated with the firm of Seebirt, Oare and Deahl, South 
Notre Dame Law School 
. LAW LIBRARY 
Do you have some law books you no longer have need for? If so, won't you write Miss Marie Lawrence, Law Library, Notre Dame, Indiana, giving her the tides of tile books? The Law Librar)' may be able to make ffood use of tliem. 
ENROLLMENT 
The entering class this year is 11% larger than last year. A total of 31 col­leges and universities are represented among die 69 members of the class. The new students come from 18 states and the District of Columbia; 29 of them, or 42%, are veterans; 13, or slightly less than 20%, are married; nine, or approximately 13%, are non-Catliolics. 
NEW FACULTY MEMBER 
The newest member of the faculty, Mr. Robert Emmett Rodes, Jr., as­sumed his duties on September 1. Mr. Rodes received an A.B. from Bro^vn University in 1947. After two years in die United States Navy he entered the Harvard Law .School, where he %vas graduated magna cum laude in 1952. In his second and third years there, he was an editor of the Harvard Law Review. 
After receiving his LL.B., Mr. Rodes ser\'ed for two years in the Office of the General Counsel of die Liberty Mutual Insurance Company of Boston. During the past'two years Mr. Rodes taught at Rutgers Universit)' School of Law, Newark, New Jersey. 
According to Dean O'Meara, "Mr. Rodes is a young man of great bril­liance, from whom we expect great things." 
NATURAL LAW INSTITUTE 
The Natural Law Institute, a func­tion of the Notre Dame Law School, was organized in 1947. Five annual convocations were held under its aus­pices, the last one in December 1951. Thereafter, a search Avas undertaken for a way in which the Institute could function effectively' on a year-round 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec^ 1956 
rather than a once-a-year basis. After 
exploring many possibilities, it was de­
cided to publish a journal of natural 
law studies, to be known as the Nat­
ural Law Forum. 
The first issue of the Forum is now 
off the press and has been well received. 
The Forum is published, under tlie 
auspices of tile Natural Law Institute 
by the following editorial board: 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF—Professor Antonio 
de Luna, University of Notre Dame 
and the University of Madrid. 

ASSOCIATE EDITORS—Professor Ver­non J. Bourke, St. Louis University; Professor A. H. Chroust, Notre Dame Law School; Mr. George W. Con­stable, Baltimore, Md.; Professor Wil­liam J. Curran, Boston College Law School; Professor A. P. d'Entreves, O.x­ford University, England; Professor Lon L. Fuller, Harvard Law School; Professor Myres S. McDougal, Yale Law School; Professor F. S. C. North­rop, Yale Law School; Professor H. 
A. Rommen, Geoigetown University; Professor Leo Strauss, University of Chicago; Professor John Wild, Harvard University. 
Due to illness. Professor Luna has asked to be relieved of his editorial duties during the present academic year, and Professor Chroust has been appointed acting Editor-in-Chief. 
DIRECTORS MEETING 

The annual fall meeting of the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Law Association ^viIl be held at The La-w School on Saturday, Novem­ber 10. 
New members of the Board are: John M. Ciimmins, L'33, Assistant Cliief Counsel of Koppers Company, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Circuit Judge Edward H. Fenlon, L'33, of Pe­toskey, Micliigan; and Raymond W. Troy, L'37, of Lum, Fairlie & Foster, Newark, New Jersey. 
The following are officers of the As­sociation: Honorary President, Hugh 
E. Wall, Jr., L'36, of Coohdge, Wall & Wood, Dayton, Ohio; President, Nor­man J. Barr>', L'48, of Rodischild, Hart, Stevens & Barry, Chicago; Vice-President, Wilh'am E. Voor, L'25, of Voor, Jackson, Grant & McMichael, South Bend, Indiana; Secretary-Treas­Bend. 
MOOT COURT 
The final argument in the annual | Moot Court Competition is scheduled for Wednesday evening, October 24. The Court which wU sit on that occa­sion will be composed of Mr. Justice John M. Harlan of the Supreme Court of the United States; Judge Charles 
E. Whittaker of tiie United Stati^ Court of Appeals for the Eighth' Cir­cuit; Judge Charles J. McNamee of die United States District Court for the Northern District of Oliio. 
The students who will participate in die argument before this distinguished tribunal are Patrick J. Berrigan of Lewiston, New York; Lawence /^' Kane, Jr., of Cincinnati, Ohio; W." Wayne Kent of Evans\'ille, Indiana; William C. McLaughlin of South Wey­mouth, Massachusetts. 
HONORS FOR CHROUST 

Professor Chroust's article on ^'Nat­ural Law and Legal Positivism," pu^^ lished in 13 Ohio State Law Joum*| 178-186 (1952) has been selected fromf among several hundred papers on juris­prudence for publication in a collec­tion of the most significant American ^mtings on jurisprudence since 1945. This collection is sponsored by the! State Department and will be distrib4 uted diroughout the world as a moni|, ment to America's contributions to con-| temporary science and culture. I 
I 
MEMBERSHIP 
Anyone is eligible for member­ship in the Notre Dame Law As­sociation who holds a law degree • and who at any time was a stu­dent at the University of Notre Dame. It is not necessary to have attended die Notre Dame Law School. 
The annual dues, including subscription to die Notre Dame ^ Laioyer, are $5 during die first five years after graduation, and $10 diereafter. 
Inquiries should be addressed to Mr. Thomas L. Murray, As­sociates Building, South Bend, Indiana. 
Book 
THE CASE FOR RIGHT-TO-WORK LAWS, by Rev. Edward A. Keller, CS.C. 

* Right-to-Work laws are a topic of more than a few heated discussions throughout the country. Notre Dame economics professor Father Edward A. Keller, C.S.C., has waded right into the controversy with his recent book The Case for Right-to-Work Laws. 
^ The subtitle A Defense of Voluntary Unionism leaves little to be imagined on the basis of his argument. Father's book has been praised in these words by the Law Labor Journal: "First it presents such lucid arguments for vol­untary unionism that the opponents of right-to-work laws are left with nothing 
,^but the e-xhaust of their bombast; sec­ond, this book puts the record straight on the attitude of the clei^' on this schismatic right-to-work issue." 
Yet John C. Cort has written in Commonweal "He (Fadier Keller) states the problem correctly, but his conclusion is wrong because his facts are wrong .. . let the theologians stand 

jjaside and leave this argument to the practical men who have either had e.K­perience in the field or have made studies of the factual situation." 
These are t}'pical of a highly com­plicated debate. But Father's sincere, sympathetic and substantiated book (he refrains from interpreting his material, and always quotes from prime sources) 

•will do a lot to clear the air with his "trumpet-blasts of logic." 
THE MAN IN THE IRON LUNG, by Leonard Hawkins with 2M!Iton Lomask. 
Fred Snite, Jr., graduated from Notre Dame in 1933 and decided to 

i£tour China with his family. He was afflicted ivith die dreaded disease of polio. The last 18 years of his life were spent in an iron lung, during which time he married, had children and traveled 250,000 miles in his me­chanical apparatus. 
«T^ This is a life and death story written in a light and lively style from the notes of Leonard Hawkins, the chauffeur who attended Fred during most of his invalidism. It would be hard to read were it not for Fred's amazing humor, good cheer and spiritual strength. 
Most newspaper readers know the ^ramatic facts of the story. Had not 
Reviews 
one of the original 16 iron lungs been in China in 1936, Fred would have died there. Fred, in his portable iron luns;, was a familiar fisfure at Notre 
FRED SNITE, JR. 
Dame home football games and also at his Class Reunions. 
Once Fred said, "You see, I made up my mind a long time ago how I wanted to live. If I die in my sleep, I want to know where I am going." 
He wasn't afraid to die and, as Father Cavanaugh said at his fimeral, "he wasn't afraid to live either." 
A LONG WAY FROM HOME, by Vem Sncidcr. 
This is the first volume of short stories by Vem Sneider, '39. It centers, for the most part, about people and places in the far east, and the author has already shown his understanding of tliat part of the world in the novel which led to "The Teahouse of the Auguest Moon." The book does not disappoint. 
All the various characters are por­trayed with sympathy and understand­ing. The negro GI, the Korean ser­geant, the apolitican Chinese soldier, the Korean boy and his wounded American buddy, the American Cap­tain and his %vife and their adopted Japanese daughter, the young Amer­ican soldier-businessman in South Korea, and the old Pole who has to adjust to his Americanized relatives and the life in the United States come alive through Vem's skillful pen. 
Peggy Durdin, reviewer for the New York Times, says "Throughout the book Mr. Sneider reveals as an out­standing quality his unmistakable and real sympathy for the common man, whether he is American, Polish, Chi­nese, Korean or Formosan. Here, in sum, is a true meeting of East and West. It is always a rare pleasure to meet an occidental writer who has sin­cerely tried and very largely succeeded in feeling the life, the aspirations, the' problems and the emotions of that con­stantly mentioned and little under­stood person, the peasant of Asia." 

IN SILENCE I SPEAK, by George Shuster. Dr. George- Shuster, '15, president of Hunter College and a prominent educator, has written a book that is not just the storj' of Cardinal Mindszenty and of the methods the Hungarian communist government used on him. That's only one concern of the book. But it is the concrete situation which brought to the author's mind the two main problems he treats: the nature of communist rule, and the communist seizure of power and the challenge to­talitarianism throws at the free world. The result is a historic document which strikes one with its vividness and immediacy and frequently fascinates by the insights it conveys. Out of the conflict of the Cardinal and Rakosi, the communist ex-dictator of Hungary, each of them great in liis own radically different way, and the political triumph of one over the other, there emerge the dynamics of the com­munist lust for power, the structure and techniques of communist rule, and the nature of totalitarianism itself. These insights are imbedded in the historic material and receive from it a concrete­ness and conviction which a strictly theoretical analysis could not have. 
Dr. Shuster recognizes the intimate relationship between the spiritual, moral, and political weakness of the west and the attractiveness and the very existence of totalitarianism. In beautifully written and deeply felt pas­sages the author formulates the western answer—which is essentially the an­swer of the Judeo-Christian tradition— to the challenge of totalitarianism. 
Terry Brennan of Notre Dame is the latest book about the Fighting Irish head coach. Written by Dave Warner, '48, and published by the Newman Press, the price per copy is $2.25. ­

Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 11 
and analysis of the questionnaire, thisj percentage return is well-nigh unbehev-
Engineers Complete 
able and a great tribute to the loyalty and interest of the alumni. During the alumni reunion week­
Self-Study Program 
end of June, 1955, about sLxty engi­
In the years to come Father Hes­burgh's tenure as President of the Uni­versity will probably best be remem­bered for his continual emphasis on oTOWth in academic excellence. Almost liis first acts as president were the in­itiation of a new program in the Law School and the establishment of a Self-study Committee for the College of Arts and Letters, which resulted, three years ago, in a new and improved pro­gram in that college. This year, after several years of preparation, a new pro­gram begins in the College of Com­merce. 
In Januarj', 1955, Father Hesburgh appointed a Self-study Committee for the College of Engineering. In view of the fact that tlie education of an engi­neer at Notre Dame is the joint re­sponsibility of faculty members from the Colleges of Engineering, of Science, and of Arts and Letters, this facult>' committee included four members from die College of Engineering (Pro­fessors AVilhelm [chairman], Ellithom, Foecke and Graves); two members from the College of Science (Professors Haaser and Mullin); and two members from the College of Arts and Letters (Father Haley and Professor Danehy). Father Philip Moore, C.S.C., Academic Vice President, and Dean Karl Schoen­herr were ex officio members of die committee. 
In his original charge to the com­mittee Father Hesburgh stated: "The general purpose of this self-study would be to define what is, in our best judg­ment, the finest and most basic type of engineering study for imdeigraduates here at die University of Notre Dame." A proposal for action to meet this charge was rewarded by a grant of $35,000 from the Cam^ e Corporation of New York, to support the work of the committee for one year, from June 1, 1955. On June 1, 1956, with a promptness that does credit to the traditions of the engineering profes­sion, a mimeographed copy of the final report was placed on Father Hes­burgh's desk. 
While accepting full responsibility for discharging their assignment the members of the committee realized that the cooperation of the faculty, students and alumni would be essential to a suc­cessful conclusion. Throughout the 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Nov.-Dec., 1956 
past school-year the Committee sched­uled meetings with the faculty as a whole, with the faculty of engineering, and with the members of each depart­ment in which engineering students presently take courses, as well as with the members ol several departments in which engineering students ordinarily do not take courses. Three all-day meetings were held with groups of from four to seven distinguished consultants —educators, industrialists and journal­ists—whom the Committee in\'ited to Notre Dame. 
Realizing from the beginning the po­tential value of a survey of the engi­neering alumni which would include both factual information and opinions, the Committee prepared an 11-page questionnaire containing 67 questions, many of which contained several sub­questions. This questionnaire was mailed to the almost 3000 engineering alumni who live in the United States. Within a few weeks more than 1200 of these had been completed and re­turned. In the opinion of Dr. John 
F. X. Ryan, of the University's De­panment of Education, to whom the Committee entrusted the compilation neering alumni responded to the invita­tion to meet with the Committee and hear its plans. One year later another* group of engineering graduates met with the Committee and heard a pre­view of its conclusions. 
The following is a summary of sev­eral of the more important of the Com­mittee's many and detailed recommen­dations. The Committee felt that iti| most important single recommendation was that a permanent faculty Com­mittee on Engineering Education be established, that it be composed of membere from all three colleges which share in the program of engineering education, that members be elected by the Faculty for Engineering Educatioi^ (all teachers whose actiN-ities are de­voted at least half time to teaching engineering students), that the mem­bers have their teaching loads reduced while serving on the Committee, and that the Committee be given the widest possible latitude in studying and rec­ommending solutions to any problems affecting engineering education. j 
Regarding the type of cuniculum, accurately iTeflecting ahimni sentiment, the Committee expressed its strong 
ALUMNI QUESTIONNAIRE 
SENT TO THE ENGINEERING ALUMNI OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME JANUARY, 1956 
Personal Dato; 
I. .Give calcniUr ycxn duriag which you we n a stu­dent at Notre Dime. 
2.
 How many yean did you live on campui at Notre Dame? 

3.
 Degree obtained (and optioo, if any) 

4.
 Did you tnmfcr from one college or department to another while at Notre Dame? 


S. Did you tiasifcr from some other ctdlcge to Notre Dame? 
6.
 lit t those years during which you %iiitctl the Notre Dame campus since graduation. 

7.
 Did you do graduate work? 


Name field of GraduzCe Study 
Dcfrce 
If no degree, state the approximate number of credit boun earned. 
8. Are you now working in the field of csgiDccitng? 
If Tes," cirde whkh: 

(ritfU au) Degree:  1  2  3  4  (  )  i  
To  ­ No Q  
Fm m  No Q  
Ycj Q  No Q 4  

nrdit hours  
YaO  NoD  
A£RO.VAUTTCU,  ELZCTTUCAI.  AIETALLURCY  
ClIEMICAI.  MECIIAKICAI .  
Cmi .  INDUSTRIAI .  AnCHITECTUItAL  

^preference for the five-year combina­tion program, wherein a student gets two d^rees in five years, a Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science in some branch of engineering. For many prac­tical reasons however, the Committee also recommended continuation of the 
.^standard four-year program. Further­
*more, the Committee recommended a significant departure from the tradi­tional "3-2" combination programs and mapped out a program wherein the first two years of either the four-year or combination five-year programs are identical, thereby giving the students 
^tw o more years of educational maturity than at present before he decides to elect one program or the other. 
In keeping with the recommenda­tions of studies ol engineering educa­tion sponsored by the American Society for Engineering Education over the past few decades, the Committee made 
^recommendations which envision an 
*even stronger concentration on funda­mentals with a consequent reduction of specialization at the undergraduate level. Specifically, the Committee rec­ommended that the programs in mathematics, physics, chemistry and engineering science be strengthened and integrated more closely, and that 
^the credits devoted to engineering science be increased. The Committee recommended a continuation of the separate degree programs of the various departments but recommended discon­tinuance of all options within depart­ments. 
Always conscious of the need to look to the future and reflecting the stronsr 
•conviction of many engineering edu­cators that within a few decades un­dergraduate engineering education will be common for all engineering stu­dents, the Committee recommended some changes in the structure of th? 
HOLY CROSS MISSIONS For the past thirty yeare The Bengalcse has been the official mission magazine of the Amer­ican Provinces of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, which con­ducts missions in Bengal, East Pakistan. Published in Washing­ton, D. C, the magazine will be renamed Holy Cross Missiotis with the forthcoming issue. It is edited by Rev. Arnold A. Fell, C.S.C., and interested subscribers should send a dollar to Holy Cross Foreign Missionaries, VVash­••ntnon 17, D. C. it 
College of Engineering which will give it the flexibility to adapt itself easily to a common program should such a trend develop and the- opportimity to experiment with this type of program without jeopardizing existing pro­grams. Specifically, the Committee recommended the establishment of a new program leading to the degree. Bachelor of Science in Engineering, ad­ministered by a new unit within the College for which the title Unified En­gineering Division was proposed. This Division would administer those courses within the College of Engineering which are taken by all students, thus integrating the various courses now handled by at least four departments and the office of the Dean. Students \vould register with this Division for the first two years, after which they . could elect to concentrate in one of the branches of engineering or elect to pursue the common degree program, which would have more flexibility but 
which would require more mathemat­ics and physical science, more engi­neering science while still retaining enough professicmal type courses to dis­tinguish the program from an engi­neering science degree progiam. 
The Committee gave considerable attention to the liberal phase of thie extremely crowded foiur-year program. By means of an overall increase of two credit hours and a reduction of credits in some liberal areas the Committee was able to recommend the inclusion of a history course, the adoption of a sequence in the social sciences and the establishment of three credits of elec­tives in this general area. A course in public speaking, strongly urged by the alumni, was not made mandatory but was recommended as an approved elec­tive. A completely revised, philosophy program was recommended. To cope with (the problem of poor writing, the Committee recommended the establish­
(continued on page 14) 

Four Kids, Four Parents— An American-N.D. Success 
On national holidays the largest American flag in New Rochelle, N. Y., flutters in front of the Pintard Ave. home of Mayor and Mi-s. George W. Versrara. 
George Vergara, '23 (back row), Mayor of New Rochelle, N. Y., and his wife sponsored the Bartolini family, under the U. S. Ref­ugee Act, in cooperation with Catholic Re­lief Services and the Hilton Hotels Corp. Mr. and Mrs. Bartolini and their four chil­dren escaped from the Chinese Reds and came to this country from Japan. 
It was for a special kind of "holir day" this week that the flag was hoisted in the breeze—to welcome into their home a family of six refugees from Communist China for whom they have made possible a new life. 
The Vergaras have no children of their own. "But no parents ever felt prouder than us," Mr. Vergara beams, when he and Mrs. Vergara took their four new "children"—ages 5 to 10—to their first day at the Blessed Sacra­ment School here. 
And there was the glow of satisfac­tion they felt when they waved the children's father, Giulio Bartolini, 40, off early yesterday to his new job -ivith the Hilton Hotels Corp. at Hotel Stat­ler in Manhattan. 
The Veigaras' dream of more than two years had been realized. It was then they first started cutting through red tape to sponsor Giulio, his wife. Georgette, and the four yotmgsters in America under the Refugee Relief Act. 
After many "promises" that weren't lived up to, Mrs. Vergara finally landed Mr. Bartolini the necessary job through a Notre Dame, classmate of her hus­band. But it was many months before the family, all but the youngest of whom were bom in China, could be cleared. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nou.-Dec, 1956 
[<"J?4*S1 

Circuit Judge Robert J. Bracken, captain of the Notre Dame grid team in 1906 and now a resident of Di.xon, III., was an honor guest at the recent Notre Dame-Purdue game. This was the first time thatjudge Bracken had seen the Boilermakers play since he led the Irish to >-ictor}- against them fifty years ago. The Notre Dame Club of the Rock River Valley, along with the University, sponsored Judge Bracken's trip back to the campus for this special occasion. From left to right are: Coach Terry Brennan, Business Manager of Athletics Herb Jones (a former Dixon, III., resident), Judge Bracken and Coach Jack Mollcnkopf of Purdue. 
(continued from page 13) incnt of a powerful Committee on EfTcclive Writing of the type which lias proven successful at otlier institu­tions and to which any engineering stu­dent may be remanded by any teacher who is dissatisfied with the student's written work. 
In its pubHshed report. Engineering Education at Notre Dame: Foundation for Liberal and Professional Excel­lence, the Committee disctisses the goals of engineering edtication at Notre Dame, describes and evaluates the present program, and discusses tlie above recommendations, and otliers in considerable detail. Appendices to the repoit include analyses of the question­naires sent to alumni, to industry, to engineering seniors and to departments in the Collide of Engineering. Copies of the report may be ordered from: University Press, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Considerable interest was indicated 
14-Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.^Dec.f 1956 

in the Alumni Questionnaire and in tlie discussion at the two meetings of the Committee with the engineering alumni for developing a closer and more fruitful relationsliip widt the School of Engineering at Notre Dame. It was felt that alumni would gain from this continued contact, and they in turn would contribute valuable help in maintaining and enhancing tlie pres­tige of the School. Several suggestions were made for this closer liaison. Be­fore steps can be taken, a more repre­sentative expression of interest and con­crete suggestions for implementation are requested and should be directed to the Alumni Association Office. 
Among the many prominent men from education and industry whom the Committee invited singly and in small groups to act as consultants, the fol­lowing arc noted: MajTiard M. Bor­ing, President, American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE); Dr. 
George A. Gulletle, Director, Human-'* 
istic-Social Research Project for ASEE, 

Reverend E. J. Drummond, Academic Vice-President, Marquette Univei-sity; Dr. A. A. Potter, Dean Emeritus, Pur­due Univei-sity: C J. Freund, Dean of Engineering, Univei-sily of Detroit; Dr. Joseph A. Becker, Chairman, .'\dvisory,. Council for Science and Engineering;* Dr. \V. L. Everitt, Dean of Engineer-' ing, University of Illinois; H. H. .*Vnns­by. Chief of Engineering Education, 
U. S. Office of Education; Dr. G. A. Hawkins, Dean of Engineering, Pur­due University. 
Harlingen Air Force Base Notre Dame alumni stationed at Harlingen .Air Force Base arc ui-ged to contact Lt. John Locht, navigation instnictor, for infor­mation about the Rio Grande Valley Notre Dame Club. 

Paul Conway, accounting and finance; AVilliam Eagan and Frank Numer, 
1956 Honor Roll 

business administration; and Cyril V. CHRISTMAS 
The Notre Dame Foundation plans to publish an 'Honor Roll' soon after January' 1, 1957, pub­licly recognizing and expressing gratitude to the thousands of loyal alumni and other friends who contributed to the University in 1956. Names of all contrib­utors—but without specifying the amount given^will be piinted in a supplement to the Notre Dame magazine. Alumni and other fiiends will be grouped according to alpliabetical listing in the city and state where thev reside. 
New Faculty Members 
(continued from page 2) 

(included among the new faculty mem­bers. They are Frank .Anderson and Richard D. Meyer, speech; Lt. Wm. 
M. Bartlett and Lt. Cmdr. James B. Davisj naval science: Capt. John J. Brady, Jr., Major George G. Grace and Major James M. Huddleston, militaiy science; Cornelius P. Browne, physics; 
Finnegan, biolog)'. Also Rev. John E. Keating, English; Ching-AVen Kwang, finance; Kenneth 
R. Lauer, civil engineering; Rev. James J. Maguire, religion; Raymond 
J. Maras, history: Edmund J. McCar­thy and Edgar L. Schnadig, marketing; Louis Pierce, chemistrj': Robert E. Rodes, Jr., law; Rev. Regis Riter, C.S.C., philosophy; Major Archie R. Roy and Capt. Frank Zettel, air science; and Adrien Tlieiiault, modem languages. 
Newly named instructors on the No­tre Dame faculty include Rev. Thomas 
O. Barosse, C.S.C., and Rev. Patrick 
H. Maloney, C.S.C., religion; Donald 
D. Coleman, Alfred Goulet and John 
L. Rosshirt, business administration; David L. Denis, Francis G. Donlon, Robert L. Eschbacher, Paul J. Morin and Ben A. Park, English; Rev. Rich­ard J. Downs, C.S.C, Rev. Donald P. Draine, C.S.C, and Rev. Matthias Lu, philosojjhy; Raymond \V. Gnimmell, sociology-; and V. C. Harter, education. 
Others are James O. Honigan, ac­counting and finance: Lester H. Langc. 
CARDS 
Alumni and friends may secure Christmas cards OTth religious sig­nificance by writing to either 
THE MOREAU SEMINARY MISSION SOCIETY 
THE DUJARIE MISSION SOCIETY Notre Dame, Indiana 
The Traditional set, $1; a Modem Liturgical assortment, $1.50; and a Hummel Assortment, $1. There are 18 cards in the Traditional, 20 each in the others. 

mathematics; Cecil B. Mast, pliysics; Oliver S. Owen, biology; Harr\- A. Poole, Rev. Donald Siebert, C.S.C, and James White, histor\-; Gilbert L. Rath­bun, speech; Dennis L. Stark, physical education; and Stanley R. Xhier, en­gineering drawing. 
Boleslaw Sobocinski will serve as a research associate in philosophy. 
Triplets were born to«Mr. and Mrs. Edmund I. Foley, Jr., '50, of South Bend, Ind., on August 9, in St. Joseph Hospital. Ed, an insurance company representative, is the son of Ed Foley, Sr., a member of the 1915 class. The children, from left to right, are; Debbie, Kathy, Timothy, Eddie, Maryalice and Kevin. The Folevs live at 1302 Browne Lane, South Bend. 
Notre Dame AhtmnuSj Nov.-Dec.j 1956 15 
'Coach' George Sullivan isn't really perplexed because he knows this backficid can move that ball downficld. George, former Irish varsity tackle, received a law degree this summer from Notre Dame and a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1948. He and his wife Pat are the parents of six sons. Gerry is the center, Gregory at right half, Kenny is left half, Mike is quarter­back and Tim is the fullback. Mrs. Sullivan is holding Danny. George is planning to prac­tice law in Walpole, Mass. 
Corporations Donate Five 
Fellowships, 
Four new fellowships and a scholar­ship have been established in Notre Dame's department of chemistry', ac­cording to an announcement by Dr. 
G. F. D'Alelio, department head. 
Sponsors of the fellowships are the Foster-Grant Co., Leominister, Mass.: the Dow Chemical Co., Midland, Mich.: and The Research Corporation, New York City; The Toni Co., Chi­cago, 111. The Lubrizol Corp., Cleve­land, Ohio, is the donor of an under­graduate scholarship in the chemistiy department. 

Dr. Conrad Bnischweiler, Bern, Switzerland, has been named the recip­ient of the Foster-Grant postdoctorate fellowsliip. Awarded his doctorate by the University of Bern, he will conduct research in the field of polymer chem­istry. 
The Dow fellowship has been awarded to Francis X. O'Shea, Glen­dale, N. Y.. who will specialize in acetylene chemistry. He is a graduate of St. John's University, Brooklyn, 
N.Y. 
The Research Corporation grant has been awarded to James Dadura, Atlas, Pa., who will study the pyrolj-sis of oiganic compounds. He received his 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 
Scholarships 

undergraduate training at St. Vincent College, Latrobe, Pa. Edgar W. Day, New Albany, Indi­ana, a junior in Notre Dame's College 
Rev. Robert S. Pclton, CS.C. (left), (state regulations in Mexico require priests to wear tie) studied at Mexico City College during the past summer. The young man with him is Richard Muench, nephew of Dr. Paul V. Murray, president of Mexico City College, who won a scholarship to Notre Dame High School, administered by the Holy Cross Fathers, in Skokie, III. 
of Science, is the recipient of the Lub^ 
rizol scholaiship. Nineteen other corporations, govern­
ment agencies, foundations and indi­
viduals are also currently underwriting 
research at Notre Dame through fel­
lowships in the chemistrj' department. 
Does Your Employer 
DOUBLE Your Gift to 
Notre Dame Without 
Cost to You? 
One of the popular trends in 1955 and 1956 for aid to higher education from business and industry was the Corporate --Mumnus or Matching Gift program, spotlighted by Gen­eral Electric. 
By this des-icc—matching an alum­nus-employee gift to his alma mater —the company not only cooperates with its employees, but has a ready-made and effective selection of those colleges and universities from which it has benefitted. 
One of our problems is knowing which Notre Dame men are employed by these generous companies. Most of the plans provide the employee with a form to be filled out by him and by Notre Dame. 
If you arc an employee of any of the following com*panies, you can en­joy this doubling of your contribu­tion if you will cooperate with your employer and with us: 
Allegheny Ludluni Co. Burlington Industries Foundation Cabot Foundation Inc. Campbell Soup Co. Deering Millikin Foundation General Electric Educational Fund 
B. F. Goodrich Co. Hewlett Packard Co. The Hill Acme Co. 
J. M. Huber Corp. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp. Kaiser Steel Corp. Walter Kidde & Co. Foundation Lehigh Portland Cement Co. Manufacturers Trust Co. (N.Y.) Scott Paper Co. Foundation John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Young & Rubicani Foundation 
Note: If your company has such a plan and is not listed above, please advise us, whether or not you par­ticipate personally. Thanks. 
THE ANNUAL ALUMNI FUND and THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION Notre Dame, Indiana 
«\ww.';Svsiiwwrtuf'*^yi?Xf' "•. 

Rockne's 'Will to Win' Legacy Earns Irish Top U.S. Grid Spot 
Notre Dame has converted Knute Rockne's "will to win" legacy into the .-.nation's best football record of the 25­
•year span since his death. Tennessee maintains its rimnerup spot in the won-lost column behind Notre Dame for the quarter-centur)', 
. 1931 through 1955. Duke, Amy, Okla­homa, Michigan State, Alabama, Ohio State, Michigan and Southern Cali­fornia i-ound out the top 10, in that 
•arder, according to an Associated Press survey. 
Two of Rockne's pupils, Frank Leahy and Edward (Moose) Krause, were linemen for the '31 Irish. As coach and athletic director, they played major roles in Notre Dame's record of 182 victories, 40 losses and 15 ties in 
•_the
 last 25 years. 

•
 AVhen Lealiy stepped down after the '53 campaign, Notre Dame's record was 887-11-9. His protege. Tern' Brennan, has posted a 17-3 mark in his first two seasons. 

The top 25 teams of tlie past quarter century records include post-season games, percentage figured without ties: 

•
 W L T Pet. Pts. OP Notre Dame 182 40 15 .820 5191 2029 Tennessee 182 52 13 .778 5160 1858 Duke 169 57 12 .748 5009 1875 .•\rmy 163 56 14 .744 5923 2043 Oklahoma 171 61 18 .737 5369 2289 Michigan State 148 54 13 .733 4639 2124 Alabama 168 62 14 .730 5502 2383 gOhio State 147 58 12 .717 4617 2199 Michigan 153 61 7 .715 4208 2082 Southern Calif. 160 77 21 .675 4781 2710 Boston College 126 64 14 .663 3911 2766 Minnesota 134 71 11 .654 4017 2629 Holy Cross 148 79 15 .651 4375 2424 Utah 137 74 16 .649 4561 2818 Texas 157 86 9 .646 4733 2711 ...Georgia 160 88 14 .645 5104 3078 


Princeton 120 68 II .638 3897 2567 Ga. Tech 161 92 10 .636 4721 2737 Cincinnati 134 78 II .632 4074 2485 Penn State 128 75 II .631 3832 2499 La. State 146 87 20 .627 4456 2855 Detroit 132 80 5 .623 3960 2338 
•Maryland 145 88 11 .622 4358 2934 . California 154 94 10 .621 4338 2729 Tulsa 143 88 15 .619 5163 3145 
Notre Dame has produced more 

"modem" All-America players than 
any school in the nation. 
The Fighting Irish have had 29 All-America players since 1925, the year the Associated Press began picking the dream teams. 
Army ranks second with 22 All-America players, followed by Minne­sota, with 17, and Michigan, with 14. 
The Midwest has been the most pro­ductive All-America area, contributing 111 players. The East is ne.\t with 81, followed by the South, with 74, Far West, with 52, and Southwest, with 46. 
The powerful Big Ten conference contributed 70 of the Midwest's 111 total. 
Northwestern and Ohio State have had nine apiece, Michigan State seven, Illinois and Wisconsin five apiece, and Purdue and Iowa, two apiece. 
The first All-America team was picked in 1889 by Walter Camp, long recognized as a football authority. Camp picked his team until 1924, when he died and the AP took over. 
In the first six years of Camp's se­lections, four teams dominated all po­sitions. They were Harvard, Princeton,­Yale and Pennsylvania. There were few other schools who played football at that time. 
Three ND Footballers Enter Hall of Fame 
Three Notre Dame men have been elected to the Helms Hall College Football Hall of Fame for coaching. They are Frank Leahy, who coached at Boston College before coming to Notre Dame, Edward "Slip" Madigan, former St. Mar}''s of California and University of Iowa coach, and James Phelan, who coached at Missouri, Pur­due, University of Washington, and St. Mary's, California. Leahy played tackle on Notre Dame's 1929 team, Madigan played center for the Irish from 1917-20, and Phelan was a quar­terback on the 1914-17 teams. 
SPORTS COMMIHEE UPS STUDENT PARTICIPATION: 
Thirteen hundred students partici­pated in an experimentally organized program of intra-hall, intra-mural and inter-club sports at Notre Dame last year. "Our objective is to increase that number," said Dominic (Nappy) Na­politano, the new full-time director of-this program. 
Early last year Rev. Edmund P. 

Joyce, C.S.C, Executive Vice-President and Chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, appointed a Com­mittee on Inter-Hall and Student Club sports. Headed by Rev. James E. Nor­ton, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge 
Napolitano of Student Affairs, 

the group also con­sists of Edward (Moose) Krause, Di­rector of Athletics, John A. Scaimell, Head of the Department of Physical Education, and Mr. Napolitano. 
Already widely known for his 21 years of supervising the Bengal Bouts, Nappy can point with some pride and much hope to the '56-'57 program which is already underway. 
Three hundred and fifty students are participating in the football league. In this contest six teams froiri each of the campus (East ,^vs. West) are playing in a round robin, the .winner in ••each to play the othen for the cham­^-pionship. Competition iii" cross-coun­try and novice boxing is also in pro­.^"'•gress and a touch football contest will soon begin. .>'.• •} 
That completes the 'fall' se&on.?fhe 'indoor' season beginning after Thanks^ giving will feature basketball, boxing, handball, swimming, indoor track, vol­leyball and wrestling. After Easter it'll be the 'spring" season \iith baseball, Softball, golf, tennis, swimming; and outdoor track. Other sports in the pro­gram include gymnastics, bowling and sailing. If enough interest is shoivn in any one of these sports which are not already varsity they may become so after four or five years as wrestling did last year. 
"Those 1300 boys produced 17,988 participations in the various sports last year," Nappy says, "but we want every Notre Dame man in this program. That would be ideal." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 17 
Jordan Readies Irish Cagers For Tough 24'Game Schedule 
Seven Big Ten games, the E.C.A.C. Holiday Tournament, five home-and­homc seiies with traditional opponents, plus the annual eastern trip, are among the features of the 1956-57 University of Notre Dame basketball schedule, as announced recently by Athletic Direc­tor Edward \V. Krausc. 
\Visconsin, Purdue, Micliigan State, Illinois and Indiana are Western Con­ference schools to be met in single games, and, as usual, a two-game series will be played with Northwestern. Other opponents to be met twice, arc Loyola of Chicago, DePaul, Butler and Marquette. 
This is the initial appeai-ance for the Notre Dame basketball squad in this toumey. For the past two years, they have participated in tlie Sugar Bowl toumey in New Orleans during the Holiday Season and won the cham­pionship both years. 
In addition to Notre Dame, the par­ticipating teams are: Brigham Young Univei-sity, Fordham University, Man­hattan College, New York University, Niagara University, Ohio State Uni­versity, St. Jolm's University, Temple University and Villanova University. 
On the eastern journey, in early Februar)', Holy Cross will be met in Boston, for the third straight year, and en route, the Irish will play Canisius, in Buffalo. .Although a fairly regular opponent in modem times, it will be the first game against Canisius in three seasons. Otlter schools besides Canisius, which did not appear on the 1955-56 slate, are St. Joseph's, Valparaiso, and the University of Portland. 
Completing the 24-game schedule will be contests with two of the strong­est fives in the country, the University of Louisville, winner of the National Invitational tournament last year, and the University of Detroit. 
It will mark the sixth season as head basketball mentor for Coach Jordan. His teams have won 80 of 123 starts, and in addition to two Sugar Bowl titles, in 1952-53 and 1953-54 reached the quarter-finals of the N.C.A.A. tour­ney. He was named "Coach of the Year" after the 1953-54 campaign. 
1956-57 Basketball Schedule! 
DECEMBER 
4 St. Joseph at Notre Dame 
8 ^Visconsin at Madison 
10 Northwestern at Notre Dame 
15 Purdue at Lafayette 
17 Valparaiso at Notre Dame ^ 

22 Louisville at Louisville ^ 25-26 Holiday Toumey at New York 28-29 Holiday Toumey at New York 
JANUARY 
5 Butler at Notre Dame 
7 Northwestern at Evanston 
12 Loyola at Notre Dame 
15 Michigan State at Notre Dam4| 
26 Illinois at Chicago 
29 Indiana at Notre Dame 
FEBRUARY • 
2 Canisius at Buffalo 
4 Holy Cross at Boston 
7 Portland at Notre Dame 
9 Loyola at Chicago 
13 Butler at Indianapolis <4 
20 Detroit at Notre Dame 
23 DePaul at Notre Dame 
26 Marquette at Milwaukee 
MARCH 
2 DePaul at Chicago 
9 Marquette at Notre Dame 

Lewis Gains Berth on <« Track Coaches Squad 
Notre Dame's Aubrey Lewis is one of the 50 athletes selected on the Na­tional Collegiate Track Coaches' AU-American track and field team. Lewis was given an AU-American rating in the 400-meter hurdles. Aubrey, a mem-^ ber of the Junior class, has been onia of Notre Dame's most outstanding atli­letes during the past two years, com­peting in botli football and in track. He narrowly missed eaming a place on the U. S. Olympic Team when he slipped and fell in the trials after lead­ing in his specialty event. This fall^ Lewis has been a consistent grounii gainer for Teny Brennan's eleven at halfback. 
Morse Is First Captain In Backfield Since 1945 
A check of this year's 71-member squad shows that 30 of the Fightiitg Irish are Irish or of Irish descent. The list includes Captain Jim Morse, Paul Homung, Bob Scannell, Ed Sullivan, Larry Cooke, John McDonnell, and Mike Dugan. Morse, incidentally, is the first backfield man to captain the team since quarterback Frank Dance-
Coach Jordan begins sixth basketball season with early chalk sessions. wicz in 1945. u;^ 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 
The family of William J. Burke, deceased benefactor of Notre Dame's golf course, are shown here at a dedication of a memorial pagoda at the entrance to the course. Presiding at the ceremony Has Rev. Theodore M. Hcsburgh, C.S.C., left, president of the University. Others shown are Mrs. Burke, William Burke, Jr., a former Notre Dame golfer; Rev. George Holder­ith, C.S.C., University golf coach, and Mrs. Walter Duncan, Jr., of Oklahoma City, daughter of Mrs. Burke and the late Mr. Burke. 
Coach Terry Brennan, Captain Jimmy Morse, halfback, and "Mike," the Fighting Irish mascot, pose for photographers at a practice session. 
Cross Country Harriers Count on Team Balance 
Despite the loss of Bill Squires, one of Notre Dame's greatest track stars, through graduation, and Dick Di Cam­millo who pressed Squires for the top position on last fall's undefeated squad through ineligibility, this year's cross­country team should turn in a ver>' creditable season. Also missing from the lineup will be Jim "Spike" Daley, captain of the 1955 harriers. Coach Ale-x Wilson is depending on team bal­ance to power the team through a nigged six dual meet schedule followed by four big meets that close the fall campaign. Captain John Michno, Ed Monnelly and Dale Vandenberg lead the Blue and Gold. 
Michno, a senior from St. Leo High School, Chicago, battled Monnelly for the No. 4 spot on last season's team. Monnelly is a junior from De Paul Academy in Chicago and will probably be the best miler when track season rolls around. Junior Vandenberg showed steady improvement through the cross-country and track campaigns last year and is Notre Dame's top half-miler. He is from Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
Other runners who Wilson is hoping will give these three winning support are Neii Wallace, senior, Billy Newell, junior, and two other juniors, John Bums and Stan Wegrzynowicz. Most promising graduate of last fall's fresh­man team is Mike Haverty, from Osh­kosh, Wisconsin. Also bolstering the sophomore crop is Bud Doha, from neighboring New Carlisle, Indiana, and John Buck, from Carrolltown, Pa. 
Freshman hopefuls with the most impressive high school times are a pair of 4:25 milers, Dave Cotton and Galen Cawley. From Canada is Andy Craw­ford, who has done the half-mile in 1:56. 
The Indiana State meet, with In­diana and Purdue expected to provide the major opposition, holds the spot­light on November 9 in Indianapolis. Notre Dame is the defending cham­pion. The Irish then are entered in the Central Collegiate's on November 16 in Chicago where they defend another crown. The big IC4A meet, with the East's best representatives, including Villanova with Ron Delaney, will be run off on the 19th. On November 26 at East Lansing, Michigan, is the na­tional championship or NCAA meet. Last year the Irish tied for third. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 19 
'Directory 

 of Clubs and Their President 
Northwestern—^William R. Shanahan, '50, 576 W. Grand Ave., Lima, Ohio. 
Ohio Valley—Kohcrt Sincavich, '30, 2079 Ltiuisa Ave., Wheding. W. Va. , Tofeilo—Richard D. Donoghue, Jr., '49, 2822 V Sherbrook Road, Toledo, Ohio. Youngslown—R. Griff Allen, '44, 2230 Burma Drive, Youngstown, Ohio. 

OKLAHOMA—OHaAomo &•(}•—Charles McFarland, '39, Rt. 10, Box 300, Oklahoma City, Okla. Tufjo-Robert D . Sheehan, '42, 2168 S. 0\rasso Pbce, Tulsa, Okla. 
OREGON—Hugh V. Lacey, Jr., '43, 1308 S.W. Alder St., Portland 5, Ore. 
PENNSYLVANIA—Cen/rol Pennsyhania — William 
S. Clear, '30, 503 Coleridge Ave., Altoona, Pa. i Eric—John S. Young, '51, 3016 Stale St., Apt. 1, * Erie. Pa. Horrtitarj—John W. Davis, '32, 5313 Rii-er Dr., Harrisburg, Pa. Monongahcla Valley—Louis W. ..Xpone. '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. PAilarf^/fiWo—William G. Burns, '40, 264 Ithan Ave., ViIlano\'a, Pa. Pittsburgh—XJCO J. Vogel, Jr., '49, 286 Magnolia PI., Pittsburgh, Pa. Scranton—John A. Kramer, *45, 1705 Delaware St., Dunmore, Pa. Wilkes-Barre—Jokrs C. Btady, M.D., '36, 228 Horton St., Wilkcs-Barre. Pa. ,f miliomsporl—Harry J. Krimm, '28, 1215 Walnut^ Williamsport, Pa. 

RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS— James E. Murphy, '49, 41 Washington St., War­ren, R. I. 
SOUTH CAROLINA—Edward J. Dailcv, '49 (Ch!), 18 Manly St., Apt. 3, Greenville, So. Car. . 
TENNESSEE—C*al(iiiioo£a—Thomas B. Oiven, '35, 4004 Wney Ave. Memphis—Joseph Signiago, '48, 945 Colonial Rd., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS—Dal/oj—Jacob M. Reichenstein, Jr., '42,;" 3121 Grand, Dallas, Texas. El Paso—V/. Gorman Brock, '49, 2319 Trcmonl St., El Paso, Texas. Afoujion—Donald F. O'Brien, '42, 900 Lovelt Boulevard, Houston 6. Texas. Rio Grande I'o.'Ifj—Robert Azh, '49, 1203 W. Elizabeth, Brownsville, Texas. San Antonio—Jesse B. Poston, '49, 2833 Roosevelt Ave., San Antonio, Texas. 
VIRGINIA-Frank .A. Crovo, Jr., '51, 3230 Edge­\vt>od Ave., Richmond. riVI«to(fr—Philip L. Russo, "49. 8107 Wedgewood Drive, Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON—Spotane—Edward J. Bethke, '28,1 2411 E. Nord, Spokane, Wash. IlVilfrn-Bernard J. Lenoue, "33, 914 21st Ave. No., Seattle, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA—Comdius T. Desmond, '51, 1908 7th Ave., St. Albans, W. Va. Cen/ral-John D. Julian, '40, 636 Mulberry Ave., Clarksbuis, W. Va. 
^VISCONSIN-Fojr River Kol/o^Richard A. Stack. 
•48, 1306 W. Cedar St., Appleton, Wb. Green Boy—Jack A. Vainisi, '50, 349 S. Washing­ton St., Green Bay, Wis. ^ LnCroire-Henry C. Funk, '50, 328 N. 26th Place^j LaCrosse, Wis. Milwaukee—Mssrt A. Pfalier, '43, 7613 W. State St., Milwaukee 13, Wis. South Cenlral—Paul Brannan, '34, 1518 Drake St., MadUon, Wis. Southeaitern—Thomas W. Carroll, '51, 917 Main St., Radne, Wis. 

HAWAII—Harry A. Meddros, "53, 1734 Ashford St., Honolulu 17, Hawaii. 
FOREIGN CLUBS: 
Bengal, India—Rtx. John W. Kane. C.S.C.. '24/: (key man) Moreau House, 28 Zindabahar Lan^l Dacca, East Pakistan. Canada-Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Charesl Blvd., Quebec, Canada. Manila—Enrique Brias, '37^ c/ o Ro.xas y Com­pania, Soriano Bldg., Mamla, Philippines. Mexico City—Tehno DeLandero, '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City. Panama—^William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 66, An-con. Canal Zone. P«ru—Andres Malatesta, '23, Cailloma 376, Lima, Peru, South America. Rome—^Vincent G. McAloon, '34 (key man). Hotel Alirorni, Via Scossacavill; 11, Rome, Ital>rj 

ARIZONA—/•Aocn;x—.\. Carlton Gilbcrl, '49, 404i £. Indianob, Phoenix, Ariz. Tucjon-Kenneth J. Bayly, '30, 306 Fiber BIdg., Tucson, Ariz. 
ARKANSAS—For/ Smith—}oha Murphy, '28, P.O. Box 457, Fort Smith, Mi. 
a\UFORNIA—C<n(r<i.'—Harold A. Bair, '29, 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Calif. Lol .^neriw—George R. Meeker, '40, I123G E. Liv-e Oak Ave., Arcadia, Calif. AW/;j«rn—Richard J. Ames, '45, 816 Thornhill Dr., Colma, Calif. San Die^o—Harrv Monalian. '50, 4737 Fchon St.. San Diego 16, Calif. 
COLORADO—fl.n:.r—.\rthur Oregon-. '37, Suite 
800. Denver Club BIdg.. Denirr. Co!o. Southern Colo.—A. Jack Thomas, '49, 3222 Rex St., .Pueblo, Colo. 

CONNECrriCUT—Ci.nn.-c(;ru( roHr\—.Arthur Mc­Gee, '31, 2(M High St., Wallinglord, Conn. Naupatuek—^Jamcs J. Scigliano, '42, 15 Hewlett St., Waterbur^-, Conn. New Haven—^Joseph P. Burns, '34, 8 Vinejard Rd., North Haven, Conn, Southweitern—Dr. Vincent Gorman, '45, 5490 Main St., Trumbull, Conn. 
DELAWARE—Charles A_. Wolfe. Jr., 312 Holly Oak Rd., Gw-inhurst; Wilmington 3, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Dr. Matthew J. Sul­liran, '44, 1801 Eye St. N.W., IVashingion 6, D. C. 
FLORIDA—C^n/rol—Roy B. Laughlin, '48, 2626 Norfolk Rd., Orlando, Fla. Fort LauderJale-Sohn C. Sullivan, '31, P.O. Box 418, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. Greater Miami—Michael Zoro\^ch, '44, 405 N.E. 99th St., Miami, Fla. North florido—Richard H. Brodeur, '50, 4638 Ramona St., Jacksonville, Fla. St. Petersburg-Tampa—Tl.oy J. Deeb, '48, 1400 I5th St. No., St. Petenbutg, Fla. 
GEORGIA—Jl/anlo —Paul W. Smith, '45, 526 Meadow Lane, Decatur, Ga, 
IDAHO—Francis Neiuel, '23, 9 Mesa Dr., Boise, Idaho. Idaho falls—James M. Brady, '29, P.O. Box 581, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS—.4iir(irn—Robert J. Kearns, '43, 528 Oak Ave.. .Aurora, III. Central /IKnoi'j-Edu-ard G. Coleman, '50, 2147 S. Walnut St., Springfield, III. Chicago—Robert E. Wright, '42, Box 115, I'alos Park, 111. Eastern fflinou-Robert Morris, '49, 216 E. Prai­rie, Danville, HI. /oi;«/—Daniel L. Kennedy, '54, 309 No. William St., Jolict, HI. Kankakee Valley—^Ma>iiard R. Bissonnette, '53. 640 Beckman Drive, Kankakee, HI. Peoria—Joha E. Cajsidy, Jr., '45, 1100 Jefferson Building. Peoria, III. Rori/ord—Frank Sweenev. '19, Faust Hotel, 618 
E. State St.. Rockford, 111. Southern Cook County—^\Villiam E. Martin, '49. 308 Shawnee, Park Forest, III. 
INDIANA-^oIumK Dulrirt —Tom Clifford. '49, 715 Harrison St., Gary, Ind. Eastern Indiana—John Marhoefer, Jr., '52, R. 7, Box 309, Munde, Ind. BUiart—.\mtin C. Cildea, '30. 117 W. High St.. Elkhart. Ind. Evansville—Fred Dewes, '43, 640 S. Englewnood, Evansville, Ind. Fort Wayne~i. Thomas O'Reilly, '44, 335 W. Sherwood Terrace. Indianapolis—James Rocap, '39, 156 E. Market St., Indianapolis, Ind. Miehiean City—tlr. Robert J. Frost, '40, 817 Pine St., Michigan City, Ind. St. Joseph ro«n—William J. Gibbons. '38, 1025 Belmont, South Bend, Ind. Terre Haute—Viti G. Christman, Jr., '43, 2878 Mariposa, Tcrre Haute, Ind. Wabash Valley-^ci Bmnbleburg, 1014 Brown St., Lala%-ette. Ind. 
IOWA—flurlinslon—Dr. Donal C. Petersen, '42, 311 F S M Bank Bldg., Burlington, Iowa. Cedar Bo/iidj—Cornelius J. Styets, '48, 634 31st St., Cedar Ranids, la. Des Moines—^Dr. Edward R. Posner, Jr., '41, 4237 IngersoU Ave., Des Moines, la. Dubuque—Rc\*. William Kunsch, '37, Loras Col­lege, Dubuque, la. Tri-Citses (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline)—J. Emmett Keenan, '42, 2611 Famaia St., Davenport, la. 

KANSAS—aiJ/<Tn A'onsoj—Paul Hurd, '45, 3I0I 
Lincoln, Topeka, Kansas. JOKBB—Robert A. McAuliffc, '36, 1307 Court Place. Salina, Kansas. Il'iV/iiVa—Dr. Bernard Crowley. '28, 430 X. Bal­tin, Wichita. Kas. 

KENTUCKY—Joseph P. Harmon, '25, 1203 Falcon Dr., Louisville, Ky. 
LOUISIANA—/fri-ta-Tex-Robert A. Roy, '27, 509 Market St., Shrevcport, La. New Orleans—VacT L. Hilbert, '50, 1216 Calhoun St., New Orleans, La. 
MARYLAND—Bal/iraorr-John .M. Wicman. '49. 1109 New field Rd., Baltimore 7. Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS—Boi/on—Richard Herlihy, '48, 5 Josephine Rd., West Medford, Mass. 
MICHIGAN—Bn/He Cr«t*—Robert Breska, '43, Rt. 1, Box 151, BatUe Creel, Midi. Berrien Couaty~Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles, Mich. Dearborn—Clement E. Constantine, '46, 3841 Syra­cuse, Dearborn, Mich. fl^/roil—James J. Bj-me, '43, 17585 Oak Dr., De­troit 21, Mich. Him—Robert J. Sibibky, '42, 2302 Mountain Ave., Flint, Mich. Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—Charles W. Duffy, '37, 901 Chippewa S.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan. //ioaodin/oni/—Robert F. Voelker, '39, Box 88, Stephenson. Mich. Jackson—]ohn Lindberg, '50, 1702 Warren, Jack­son, Mich. Kalamazoo—Paul O'Connell, '44, 1515 Kingston, Kalamazoo. Mich. .Uonror—Charles J. Golden, '48, 3 East Second St., ^fonroc, Mich. 
jWiulvson-Joseph Keusch, '43, 1311 Hendrick Rd., Muskegon, Mich. Saginaw Valley—William A. Hendrick. '44, 616 
S. Washington Ave., Saginaw, Mich. Top of .Michigan — Edward L. Moloney, '17, 416 East Stale St., Chebo>^an, Mich. 

MINNESOTA—Tain Cities—John J. Connellv, 'S3. 200 Amherst St., St. Paul 5, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI—James Dougherty, '49, 917 Arling­ton, Jackson, Miss. 
MISSOURI—Koninj Ci(>^(Mo. and Kans.)-Rus­seU Farrell, '48, 1006 Grand Ave., Kansas City, Mo. St, Louis—Donald A. Doheny. '46, No. 6 Conway Rd., Frontenac, St. Louis, Mo. 
NEBRASICA—Omo/m and Council Bluffs — Herb Sampson. '50. 544 South 69th St., Omaha, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY—Cfn/rol-Albert Waters, '32, 228 David St., Perth Ainboy. N. J. New Jersey—Robert Joyce, '50, W Keycs St., Florham Park. N. J. South Jersey—'SUtt J. CampanelU, '49, 107 E. Madison Ave., Collingswood 7, N. J. 
NEW MEXICO—Louis C. Lujan, '24. 1004 Simms BIdff., Albuquerque, N. M. 
NEW YORK—Buffolo—Ralph F. Else, '34, 278 Voorhees Ave., Buffalo 16, N. Y. Capital District—C: F. Regan, Jr., '27. 1592 New Scotland Rd., Box 158, Slingerlands, N. Y. Ccnlrol—H. I'hilin Shean, '31, 125 Dewittshire Rd., Dewitt 14, N. Y. Mid-Hudson Valley—}mtpb A. Rorick, '42, 27 Monell A\-c., Poughkeepsie, N. Y. Mohawk Valley—^Dr. Daniel C. Shaughnessy, '30, 113 Green St., Herkimer, N. Y. New York City—Anthony F. Barley, Jr., '47. c/o LesUe and Co., 1430 Broadway, New York, N. Y. Rochester—JnA Nye Duffcy, '33, 1028 Sibley Tower Bldg., Rochester, N. Y. Schenectady—\\"Mi:sm G. Leonard. '49, J124 Gar­ner Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. Southern Tier—Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 Hamilton St., Painted Post, X. Y. 
Triple Ci7i«J—George J. Haines, '42, 126 Laurel Ave., Binghamton, >J. Y. 

NORTH DAKOTA — William Daner, '33, 1111 Highland, Bismarck, North Dakota. 
OHIO—^^tron—Thomas Botzum, '49, 12! Avondale Dr., Akron, Ohio. Canton—^Lotiis L. Singer, '48, 2743 Cleveland, N.W., Canton, Ohio. Cincinnati—Robert C. Bomkamp, '49, 851 Tweed Ave., Cindnnati 26, Ohio. ' . Cleveland—T. Edward Careyj '34, 18843 Ingle­wood Rd., Rocky River, Ohio. Columtuj—John W. Gordon, Jr., '42, 1069 Ken-wick Rd., Columbus 9, Ohio. Cnylon—Frank E. MeBridc,' Jr., '50, 4054 Royal Oak Dr.. Dayton 9,. Ohio: 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec., 1956 

•Akron 
At our last meeting, the Akron area Notre Danu-
Ahmmi Club elected the follouing to Oie General 
Activities Committee. Chairman, WILLIAM 
O'NEIL; DAN M0T2, JIM WALTER, JOE WEI­
BEL, JOHN DAILVGO, BOB HUDDLESTON, 
STEVE SITKO, GEORGE SEIKEL, BOB RE.\L, 
and GEORGE POWERS. 
This Committee will meet from time to time to discuss plans and ideas for Chib activities. At the last meeting the General Activities Committee gllccted the Committee for our annual Christmas ^ance . The Dance Committee is headed bv ED HINDERSCHEID, our Club Vice-President.' He will be assisted bv DAN MOTZ, JOHN DARAGO and JIM WALTER. The date for ilic Christmas Dance is December 29, 1956. at the Sheraton-Mayflower Hotel and Frankic Reynolds' Orchestra will provide the music. Tickets for the dance are 
now available. 
Our Club held a luncheon at lacomini's on 
xXugust 14. Over 125 alumni and friends were 
present to hear Coach TERRY BRENNAN speak. 
On September 6. the Akron Notre Dame Ahimni sponsored a *'Goin5 Away Party'* for incoming ^eshmcn. The Akron area Alumni will be repre­
sented by 9 boys who will be enrolling as fresh­
men at Notre Dame this fall. This list is headed 
by George Izo, Barberton's all-Ohio football star, 
who will bo enrolling at Notre Dame on an Ath­
letic Scholarship. Others enrolling as freshmen 
arc Paul A. Bertsch, whose father was a former 
Akron Club president; Ed«-ard B. Butler, Daniel 
J. Converse, Walter Farley, Stephen J. Kraus, William D. Sliaul, Robert J. Tigclman, Robert A, Wcigand. 
Plans arc being made for a Husband and AVife Communion Breakfast for Friday, December 7, ^11 alumni will be notified when the fmal arrange* incnts as to time and place arc completed. 
—BOB KAPISH, '52, Scc>-. 

Boston 
Thirty-five incoming Freshmen and their fathen. were guests of the club at a dinner meeting Sep­tember 5th. FATHER RICHARD SULLIV.VN, C.S.C., Vice-President of Stonclull College, was the principal speaker. HUGH BLUNT, *24 and JOHN McM.ANMON, '28 gave short talks followed by color slides of the University shown bv BOB |YNCH, '49. 
The Club held an informal dance at the Hamp­
shire House in Boston on Friday night, October 
26th. DICK HYL.\ND, '50, was chairman. 
Universal Communion Sunday will be obser\"ed 
Sunday, December Stti. Details will be announced 
soon. 
Monthly luncheon meetings arc held on the first 
Thursday of each month at 12:00 Noon in the 
3rd floor Grill of the University Club. All .Mumni 
are invited to attend. 
Congratulations to JIM 0'DE.\, '44, on his vic­
tpr\* in the Democratic primar>' for District At-
r>rney of Middlesex County. MIKE MANZO, 
'46. 'is a member' of the Nfedford High School 
football stair. ART STxVTUTO, '48, is coach at 
Saugus High School. 
Our best wishes go to MIKE O*T0OLE, '55, 
one of our directors, who was inducted into the 
Army September 27[h. 
New members of the Boston Club arc JOHN P. 
KARLE, '56, PAUL PECKHAM, '49, and JOHN 
SHAY, '53. 
All Alumni in the Boston area arc invited to 
ioin ihc Club. For information call DICK HER­
lilHY, '48, Somerset 6-8180 or MYslic 8-9101, 
^r BILL McC/\RT\*, GRaniie 2-(M28. 
—BILL .Mca\RT\', '49, Sccx-. 

Buffalo 
The first regular meeting of the year was held m September 11, 1956 at the Sheraton Hotel, President Rf\LPH ELSE assigned plans for this light to Cy RICKARD and he did a wonderful iob. The guest speaker was the one and only |IM ARMSTRONG, secretary- of the Notre Dame \lumni Association. Jim discussed the University, 
past, present and future and ever>onc tlioroughly 
enjoyed his talk. 
Among the guests present were the new fresh­men at the University, their fathers and the officers of the Buffalo Club at Notre Dame. We were also honored to have JACK DUFFEY, President of the Rochester Notre Dame Alumni Club. 
FR^\NK GAGLIONE and his committee did a superb job for our scholarship fund. Tliey sold tickets for three plays held at Melody Fair, an outdoor theatre located in Tonawanda. New York. 
DON J.ACOBI and bis committee had a large turnout for Notre Dame Night at the Trotting Races. Dinner was ser\-cd in the Club House and all who attended had a wonderful time, Tlic seventh race of the evening was called "The Notre Dame Trot Race." The owner of the winning horse was presented with a Notre Dame blanket. Our own JIM DUNNIGAN, president of llic Buf­falo Trotting Association presented a check for S500.00 to our Club to be applied toward our Scholarship Fund. 
Congratidations arc in order to MRS. CYRIL RZCKvVRD for the huge turnout at the Notre Dame family picnic held at the HENRY J. BALL­ING, SR. summer farm. 
TIic "old timers" proved that llicy still have that old zip when they beat the "young -whip­crsnappcrs" in the annual baseball game plaved at the Stag Picnic. JOHN NOVAK and HENRY BALLING, JR., chairmen of the affair had a ver>­well planned program. There were plenty of laughs, games, fun and refreshments. 
BUS PFEIL, chairman of the Golf Outing, re­ports that the boys were hitting theni straight and far. D.AN SHEEDY won the tournament with a blis­tering 78, which enabled him to win the first leg of the Mary A. Quinn Memorial Trophy, which is symbolic of the Golf Championship of the Club. The trophy will be kept permanently by the one who wins it three times. M.AURY QUINN fin­ished a close second with an 80. Among those present were JIM CL.\USS, JOE DUNN, RALPH ELSE, JACK ENDERS, JACK LaVIGNE, BUS PFEIL, MIKE RE/\GAN and DR. JOE SHEEDY. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES T. CLi\USS have been appointed chairmen of the Cbristma$ Dance to be held Friday night, December 28th at the Trap and Field Club. We will hear more about the dance in the next issue. 
The Annual Familv Communion Breakfast will be held Sunday, December 2nd. FR.\NK GAGLI­ONE, vice-president of our Club will be chairman. This affair is always well attended. 
Initial plans are being made for our Sports Night. LOU ALM.VSI and JACK LaVIGNE have been appointed co-chairmen. 
—DICK LEOUS, '50, Secy, 

Burlingf'on 
The Notre Dame Club of Burlington was recently organized which includes alumni living in this area: Fort Madison, Keokuk and Henr\* County. Plans have been made to feature the Notre Dame-Iowa film at a meeting held on October 25. The organi­zational session included ciglit alumni and their wives in attendance on September 26. DR. D. C. PETERSEN was elected president of the club. 
—JOH.V A. DAILEY 

Calumet District 
On Tuesday^ August 7th, approximately 41 Alumni and friends gathered at Lake Hills Coiintr>­Club for our annual golf outing and dinner. JIM DONOVAN, a gticst. won the low gross prize "hich was a Savings Bond donated hy BILL RILEY. Donovan presented the bond to the club to be used for any purpose it decides. BILL O'CON­NOR, \icc-president, presided and Introduced TOM RADIGAN as MC at the dinner. .Award winner of the door prize was J. E. OGREN, father of former club president JACK OGREN. All in all, a good time was enjoyed by ever>'one with good intentions vowed for next year's "dubbing." 
Preliminary plans have been made for our annual Communion Breakfast which will be held tentatively on November 4lh. 
—CHARLES T. COHN, '31, Scc>-. 
Club Calendar 

Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m.. Hotel Shera­ton, 715 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, 
N. Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reserved for lunch at 
K. of C, 506 Delaware Ave., Buf­falo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 

CENJRAL OHIO—Firet Monday (night) of every month. Junior Rose Room, Viiginia Hotel, Co­lumbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Firet Wednesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High Street, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
ERIE—^First Friday dinner meeting with \vives. Antler's Restaurant,' 
7:00 p.m., Sept. thru June, Erie, Pa. 

FORT LAUDERDALE — Second Thursday of each month, diimer, at 7:30 p.m.. Governor's Club' Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
OKLAHOMA CITY—Firet Mon­day of each month, night, check McFarland's Drive-In Theatre, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. 
PHILADELPHIA —Second Tues­day of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club, Philadelphia, Pa. 
PITTSBURGH—Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, Pitts­burgh, Pa., at 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER—Monthly luncheon, Monday, at 12:15 p.m.. Hotel Rochester, Rochester, N. Y. (If this is a holiday, meeting is held on second Monday). 
ST. LOUIS — Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday of each month. 
WASHINGTON— Weekly lunch­eon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Cliib, 1414 I Street ri.\V., Washington, D. C. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.rDec, 1956 21, 
Canada 
PAUL H. LaFRAMBOISE of Quebec has been elected president of a newly-formed Canadian alumni organization of Notre Dame. F. J. SHAUGHXESSV, president of tiie International Baseball League, who graduated 50 years ago tins year, is honorary" president. 
At its organizational meeting in Montreal, the group adopted a constitution and the name Uni­ixrsity of Xoire Dome Club of Canada. It also heard an address by LARRY SULLIVAN', head football f:oach at ^IcGiU University and a gradu­ate of Notre Dame. 
Others officers elected: \-icc-president, J. J. BRENNAN; secretary-, E. G. MULCAIR; treasurer. 
R. E. HENAULT. REV. MAURICE A. DES­JARDINS and \\'M. A. SANTEL are directors. All are of Montreal. 
—EDWARD MULCAIR, Scc>-. 
Central New Jersey 
Tlie Notre Dame Alumni of Central New Jersey reorganized at a meeting in June and the following officers were elected: ALBERT WATERS, presi­dent; WILLIAM DUNHAM and GILBERT AUGUSTINE, Mcc-presidents; AN'THON'Y GIUF­FRE, treasurer; and JOHN J. DOYLE, sccrctar>-. 
The Knights of Columbus in Perth Amboy were most generous in allowing the use of their home as a meeting place. Two meetings were held during the summer to contact alumni in the area. The response has been high with twcnt>' to thirty alumni appearing at an average meeting. 
The first social event of the club, a student-alumni reunion and freshman welcome, was most successful with VINCE McCUE acting as toast­master. Motion pictures of campus life and the Highlights of the 1953 football season were shown. Tlie club is indebted to Rt\Y FAGAN who pro­vided the projector and took over the presentation. There w-ere approximately 40 students and their fathers present. John Doyle as chairman was especially grateful to those who advised of their intention to attend in advTmce. It helped in letting the caterer know how many slices of ham to cut. 
Future meetings are to be held on. the Brst Wednesday of cacli month at the Knights of Columbus Home on High Street in Perth Amboy. We urge all alumni in the area to attend. If you have not received notices, send me your name and address and you'll be on the next maih'ng list. It is planned to rotate the meetings around the various towns of Central New Jersey provided we can locate alumni who can arrange for a meeting place. So if a few alumni in Central New Jersey tvould like to have a meeting in their homo town, get in touch with the secretarv* and plans ivill be made. It is felt that this will enable the club to reach many of the alumni who have recently moved into the area and may not know their fellow alumni in the area or in their own neighborhood. 
Future events now in the planning stage are a social affair for mid-winter that would include the wives and friends of alumni. 
—JOHN J. DOYLE, '38, Scc'y. 
Central New York 
The annual golf outing, under the cliairmanship of CHARLES E. GEHERIN, was held in June at the Cortland Countr\> Club. Cortland, New York. HENRY M- KIRK, JR. proved to be the most successful competitor of the event. 
The sixth annual student scndofT party was held on August 30th at the Cavalr\* Club, Manlius, New York. Arrangements for the students were made by RICHARD DUNLAY and JA.MES F. KEOUGH. The alumni committee consisted of LEO KELLEY, ROBERT McAULIFFE, JOHN H. TERRY, H. PHILIP SHEAN, PHILIP KELLEY, HARRY DURKIN, JOHN McAULIFFE, EDWARD B. MURPHY, EDU'ARD KEXEFAKE and THOMAS QUINLAN. 
The students again vanquished the alumni in a softhalt game immediately preceding dinner, and thereby regained temporary- possession of the trophy. 
Guests at the dinner were rcgaliv entertained bv REV. FIUNK HARRISON, pastor of St. Andrew the Apostle, and BILL HxVSSETT, All-American at Notre Dame in 1946. the guest speakers. 
DR. THOMAS SNYDER, retiring president, con­ducted a business meeting after dinner at which time a new slate of officers were elected and installed. The new officere are: H. PH4LIP SHEAN, '31, President; CHARLES E. GEHERIN, '31, Regional XHce-Prcsidcnt: WILLIAM V. DA\TER, '46. Vice-President, and THOMAS F. QUINLAN, '53, Secrctar^'-Treasurcr. 
Tlie Club also held a smoker on Oct. 6 which was followed by a sliort business session. —TO.M QUINUAN, Sec>. 
Central West Virginia 
Our Annual Picnic was held at Lake Riley In Lewis County. The event was scheduled for 2 

p.m. but didn't really get moving good until after four. TTiosc in attendance had a real good time doing practically nothing. Several played golf. JOHN JULIAN iiHjk some of the kids swimming and BILL FLYNN and the undersigned took all the youngsters for boat rides on the lake. We had just short of fifty people present. Members present were: Prcs. JOHN JULIAN and family, JOE AUCRE.MANNE and family, DR. FARRELL, wife and son John, FRANK and CATHERINE WELCH. TOM FEENEY, mother and father, BILL FLYNN and familv, ANDY SLEIGH, SR., wife and daugli­ter and ANDY SLEIGH, JR. Wc had a good number of guests. BOB NEFF was getting ready for summer school tests at WVU; CAM AUCRE­MANNE couldn't get awav from his class plant; WALT SCHRADER was tied up in a wedding party. GUY BRADLEY was committed to a Boy Scout Camporec and FR.ANK WHELAX was out of town. 
We had supper around 6:30 and then shuwi-d the films sent from N.D. 

The board of directors of the club held a meet­ing on September 25 at the home of DR. MAR­CUS FARRELL in Clarksburg. Those in attend­ance besides Marcus included THOMAS FEENEY, JOHN JULIAN, GUY BRADLEY and ANDY SLEIGH, SR. 
AKRON—Tcrrj* Brcnnan spoke to the alumni recently at a special luncheon. Left to right: Brennan; George Izo, freshman; Club President Tom Botztmi; and Bob Kapish, Club Secretary. 
A general meeting was held on October 8 and featured the showing of a football film. The club^ arranged a TV parly for the Oklahoma game on October 27 in Clarksburg which was attended by members and their wives. 
Plans are being made for Universal Communion Sunday which this year wiH be held on December 9 at Immaculate Conception Church in Clarks­burg. A breakfast will follow at the Stonewall Jackson Hotel. 
Tlic club's Christmas Dance will be held on Saturday, December 29. BILL FLYSN is chair­man of th'is affair assisted by WALT SCHR*\DER,^ FR.\NK WELCH and JLM PHILLIPS. 
—ANDY SLEIGH, SR. 
Chicago 

Summertime in Chicaguland has sped by but not without many enjoyable activities of the Alumni of the area. 
The annual golf outing and dinner was held on July II, 1956, again at Elmhurst Country' Club through the generosity of MR. FRED SNITE. .­Almost three hundred men of, Notre Dame partlci-^ pated in the golf tourney with TERRY DILLON, '32, emerging as the owner of the retiring trophv and JIMMY CEL.\NO, '54. winning the new FRED SNITE, JR. Memorial Trophv. DON HOGAN. '42, ably ass'isted by JIM CONWAY, '42. and others ran the affair as smooth as clockwork. 
An innovation this year was Notre Dame Niglii at Sportsman's Park on August 23. Again nearly three hundred loyal followers of Notre Dame were entertained by sulky races and served a truly delicious meal in the penthouse club overlooking the track. The highlight of the evening came with^ the thrilling Notre Dame Handicap Race. This^ activity was the first of its kind held by the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. It was sucJt an out­standing success that it will be included in our Club Calender of actinties in the years to come. BILL HICKEY, '42, and TO.M NASH, JR., '42. hosted the evening in Sherman Billingsley fashion. 
On September the ninth at the Chicago Athletic Association a reception was held for all incoming freshmen from the Chicago area and their fathers. FATHER O'DONNELL from Notre Dame and JOHNNY JORDAN addressed the gathering of two hundred and ninety men with many interesting, sidelights about Notre Dame past and present. ^ 
On September 28, 1956, the North Shore seg­ment of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago held its first dance at the Michigan Shores Club of Wilmctte. This is the" first activity of the North Shore group headed by ROGER WHITE, '50, and FRED JOYCE, JR., '50. It is hoped that many more social activities may be held by the various brandies of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
Fred Joyce, '50, has done an excellent job of getting our Club publicity in all tlie Chicago papers, and Wc arc vcr>' grateful for hLs activities on its behalf. ^ 
There arc many other activities plaimed by the Club for the fall and winter social calendar. Notice of the event and date will be mailed Chicago .Mumni prior to the event. 
—ROBERT EMMETTT WRIGHT, '42. Pres. 

Cleveland 
The club sponsored a baseball night event on Sept. 14 at tlic Indians-Wliitc Sox game. RICHARD 
H. MILLER and JOHN P. COYNE were iV" chargc of rcserxntions-^ 
Tlic annual golf partv was held on Aug. 9 at the Sleepy Hollow Country Chlb. JOHN CHAPLA sened as diairman, with JERRY McGR-ATH and GUS STEFANEK as co-chairmen. 
Columbus 
Regular monthly meeting of the Notre Dame Club was held on August 28, in the Junior Rose Room of the Virginia Hotel. The quantity wa ^ poor but the quality was excellent. Plans wer " made for the events to take place in 1956. BOB QUINT and JERRY TIMKO (both of Class of 1956) were appointed Chairmen of our Christmas Dance, to be held this year on December 28. 
On September 5, we held our annual "Back to School" Picnic for students and their Fathers. This year Central Ohio is sending the largest contingent that we have ever had. 
At the Picnic AL EICHENLAUB (Chairman of Michigan State-Notre Dame Football Special) stated that the train was sold out except for « 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 

DALLAS—^These are the people who successfully blueprinted the activities of the Notre Damc-^uthcm Methodist football weekend in Dallas, Texas. Clockwise, starting with Peter Wacks (white jacket at head of table), general chairman; Jake Reichenstein, president; Lan­caster Smith, reception; Warren Higgins, tickets; Mrs. ^Varrcn Higgins, auxiliary liaison; Jim Swift, rally master of ceremonies; IVfrs. Charles Lohr, auxiliary liaison; Charles Lohr; John Hardy; Sam Wing, Jr., music and entertainment; Buddy Goldman, 
publicity; Jack 
very feu- tickets. Looks like wc arc going to 

^have anotlier successful special this year. " Other tentative activities for the new several months are: Otcober 20, Football Special (Notre Dame-Michigan Stale); November 12, Meeting; December 9, Commum'on Breakfast; January 7, Nominations Meeting. 
—JACK GORDON, President 
Dallas 

The Notre Dame-Southern Methodist football classic has come and gone. Tlie results you well --know. TIic story-behind-the-story makes good 
^Leading. About GO days In adv'ance of the Sep­tember 21-23 round of events, a committee "vol­unteered" to steer the actintics under the guid­ance of Jake Reichenstein, Club president. Gen­eral chairman was PETER J. WACKS. 
Under Wacks-wing were the following chairmen: SAM WING, JR., music and entertainment; WAR­REN HIGGINS, tickets; L/VNa\STER SMITH, reception; WILL KIRK, finance; JAMES SIM­MONS and JOE HAGGAR, President's banquet; JAMES SWIFT, master of ceremonies at the Rally and Dance; JACK SCHROETER and BUDDY 
^GOLDMAN, publicity. 
—BUDDY GOLDM,\N, '36 

Wc watdied a terrific contest between the Mus­tangs and the Irish, September 22nd, at the Cot­ton Bowl. Despite the SMU \-ictory, it vcas a grand and glorious weekend for N.D. grads and friends. FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH summed it up in one sentence: **A University moves on the character of its alumni." The proceedings started with a deluxe pre-prandial get-together and dinner 
.at the Petroleum Club of Dallas. V JAKE REICHENSTEnS', Dallas president, %*-as local cliairman, and JIM SWIFT was master of ceremonies. Present among notables were CLYDE BROUSSARD, governor of the Notre Dame Foun­dation of Tcvas; JOE O'NEILL /rom Midland, president of the Notre Dame Alumni fVssoc; H. C. MURPHY, a member of the ad\'isory board for Notre Dame; GEORGE STARKE and JOE LA­FORTUNE, trustees; ELMER LAYDEN, DON MILLER, HARRV STUHLDREHER of the "four honicmen" (JIM CROWLEY couldn't show). Tlie Rally under the chairmanship of PETE 
gTV.ACKS was a huge success. It x«'as held in the 
 Schroeter, pubh'city, and Jim Sinmions, presidcnt'is banquet. 
Crystal Ball Room ol the Baker Hotel u-rth Jim Swift as toastmastcr. A few remarks were made by SMU president. Dr. Willis Tate, Father John Cavanaugh, Athletic Directors Mattv Bell and MOOSE KRAUSE, Coaclies Woody Woodard and TERRY BRENN/IN. ^Ve also had a few quips from tlirec of the "four horsemen." Forty.fivc minutes of entertainment was provided by Pres­ton Foster, his ^vife and daughter. 
Saturday p-m.^ just before the game, the Hag-gar family held a cocktail party and buffet supper in the Texas Room and Cr>'stal Ball Room for 300 guests. Chartered buses with a police escort provided the transportation to the Cotton Bowl. The Club held a brunch Sunday morning at the Dallas Club to honor the Notre Dame ofHdal party. Including Uni\-crsily officials, football coaches and the team. There ^^-3S a splendid tm'nout for this event and a vote of thanks goes to cljairman MIKE DORAN. 
—HAL TEHxVN 

Dayton 
Due to the ticket problems this year the Dayton Club will not run an excursion to South Bend this October. This will be the first year that the Club has not run an excursion for many years. In 1957 wc hope to be able to resume this football trip. It has been a financial success every year that we ran it. 
.\ Notre Dame Auxiliary Wing of the Dayton Club has been formed this year under the capa­ble direction of MRS. ROBERT HOLLENCAMP, (the wife of our vice-president). They arc handling all of our social affairs. They had a fine party at the Miami Valley Golf Club in July. They arc to be congratulated for performing such a splendid job in so sliort a time-
Briefly, here are the coming events: 

November 3, Holiday Dance at The Miami Val­ley Golf Club; December, Communion Breakfast, with speaking program at the Gibbons Hotel. 
The club is glad to report that HER.MAN ZITT, Secy., is recovering from his recent illness. 
Any out of town Alumni who may be visiting Dayton, or desire to contact someone here— the N. D. Club of Dayton is listed in the cur­rent telephone book—Phone No, is KE 4185. 
—FRANK McBRIDE, Pres. 

Dearborn 
Tho summer evening of. July 14 found a large turnout of Deariiom Club members in ~ JERRY WAYNO'S garden enjoying their annual MMISUIIH mer Dance and Garden Party.. Thir dulT fmi^imK'­is handled entirely by the wives and^ judging by'--! the good' time had by all, they did their usual bang-up job, Mrs. CLEM CONSTANTINE wa» chairman of a committee which included Mrs JOHN COURTNEY. Mrs. LARRY DOLAN. Mis JAMES KING, Mrs. RICHARD KING and Mn. JERRY WAYNO. The girls did a wonderful job with food, drink and entertainment (Mrs. Court­ney tape-recorded three hours ot continuous dance music). FRED UHL, one of our elder statesmen, arrived looking very wtil after his recent illness. 
On September 8 our third annual Golf Outing was held at Glen Oaks Country Club. Arrangements 
for the alt-day affair were made fay JOHN 
PRAWDZIK and JOHN SCHAEFER. No course nxords were set, but all had fun, even though John Prawdzik walked off with low score prize. Howe^'er, he had the foresight to provide prizes for all contestants. 
The <dub is running a bus trip to >the Notre Dame-Michigan State game for club members and friends. For the second year this trip is being handled by the Courtney team of John W., '25, and John E., '50. 
—JOHN E. COURTNEY, Secy.-Treas. 

Delaware 
During the past'Summer, our Annual Picnic was held on the farm grounds of ED DILLON. 
Prior to start of Pall semester, a Mixer was held in behalf of graduating Alumni of the June class; viz. MARK FAULHABER, KEN KING and BILL BAILEY, JR. Incoming Freshmen met w^th old grads. 
President CHARLES WOLFE submitted a de­tailed xepon on an award to the outstanding athlete of the state givxn in the name of the NOTRE DAME CLUB of DELAWARE. 
WILL ANZILOTTI took a week off from, work at DUPONT to drive son Keith to South Bciul in order to register for Freshman class.- DICK COT7 TER is still flying jets at Dover Air Force Base. PHIL BREHM, '54, is stationed at the Aberdeen Proving Grounds. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 23 
DETROIT—Sonic of the participants in (lie club's annual golf day event. Ernie Gargaro was general chairman. 
Tile club sponsored the "outitaiiding player' aw-ard at the first Delaware All-Star Football ganie held in August. Presentation u^s made at the banquet. folJotWng tlic game, by President CHARLEY WOLFE to Wilmington High's Charley Cox. 
—A. A. PETRILLO, Sec>-. 
Denver 

. One of the nicest events lield by our Club durini; tlic >'car, the annual family picnic, was on Augu'it 25, at Our Lady of the Rockies summer camp. Tlic picnic committee provided gamts and refresh­ments and the alumni and their families went home armed with Notre Dame T-shirts, caps and ash­travs, all obtained from the Notre Dame bookstore. DR. J. PHILIP CL.\RKE headed the committee and he was aided bv ANTON POJMAN, THOMAS 
G. CURRIGAN, DR. JAMES MONAGHAN, THOMAS J. GARGAN, JOHN D. RYAN, J.VMES 
P. SHEEHAN and JOHN R. HUMBLE. 
Winners in the cliildren's games contests were: Paul Clarke, Sheila Hemming, Pat Hemming, Clare Robidoux, Andy Pojman, Tommy Gargan, Larrj* Ryan, Micliael R>"an, Larr>- Robidoux, Janet Smith, Stephanie Smith, Don Robidoux, Maiy Monaghan, Bobby Hemming, Ted Clarke, Dian Malionc\', Colleen ^lalioncy. It had been reported by reliable sources that some of the alumni had been giving their offspring intensive at-home training for these eagerly awaited events. 
The club's fastest sprinter was JIM SHEEHAN. Following close on his heels were, DR. J.\MES MONAGHAN, WILLL\M SPEILER, JOHN D. RVAN. JANE ROBIDOUX outdistanced the wives at a record setting pace. Fastest husband and wife teams were: LEO and JANE ROBIDOUX, BILL and JEAN ^L\HONEY and TO.M and TRUDY CURRIGAN. JANE ROBIDOUX, TRUDY CUR­RIGAN and JEANETTE SHEEHAN were winners in the ladies' shoe kicking event. 
Door prizes were won bj" TOM GARGAN, BILL BRADLEY, REV. FRED J. .NfANN, BILL SPEILER, JI.M SHEEIL\N, TO.M CURRIGAN. GERRY SMITH, and RAY RISTOW. 
On September 7t}i the Denver ^otre Dame Club in cooperation with the Colorado Club held a party for new freshmen students who will attend Notre Dame this fall. The party was held at the Denver Athletic Club. Tlie purpose of this affair is to acquaint new students witli Noire Dame and to meet students now in attendance at Notre Dame. ARTHUR GREGORY, president of the Denver Notre Dame Club, and ROBERT MAIER, presi­dent of the Colorado Club at Notre Dame, arranged 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Nov.-DeCy 1956 
this afTair. S«ine thirty new and old students attended the parly along with parents of new students who w'ill enter Xolre Dauic this fall. Two films ^vcrc shown to the new students. Ffwt­ball Highlights of 1954, and Helpful Hints for new students. 
—THOMAS J. GARCAN, Publicity Director 

Des Moines 
On June lOih. \vc bad our annual Notre Dame Club Family Picnic at ^\'alnllt Woods State Park in Des Moint^. The weather was perfect, and the kids had a field day. 
Present at the Picnic with their family and friends were: JIM SHAW. JI.M DINNEN, KEN REXSTREW, JOE CASEY. PAUL EIDE, DICK ARKWRIGHT, BOB CANNON, GEORGE PFLx\NZ, ED POSNER, BEN CONDON, FRED NESBIT, LOU KURTZ, JOE WHALEN and yours truly. All told, over 100 people attended the picnic. 
At present, wc are in the process of completing our N.D.-Iowa game trip, which will be attended bv some 400 N.D. clubbers and friends. MARC WONDERLLN and LOU KURTZ are handling this afTair. 
—ANDY McCORMACK, '50, Sec.-Treas. 

Detroit 
President JIM BYRNE outlined a broad and energetic campaign for tlic entire year. On June 26 ERNIE GARGARO cliairmanned a vcr>- fine golf outing held at the Western Golf and Country Club. It was a fine layout, a fine day and the course was completely cleared of snakes. Ernie reports that there were 76 golfers and 109 people showed up for dinner. ED HAYES of the Detroit Times served as toastmaster at the dinner whidi featured FATHER JEROME WILSON and coach TERRY BREN*NAN from Notre Dame. TOM SHEEH.'VN had low gross for the dav and next lo him was JOHN P/\NELLI with an 80. The trophy was given to PancIIi since Slicelian has already won tlic low gross trophy a number of times. 
On August 11 wc joined with tJic Christ Child Society at **An Evening at Melody Circus." A turnout of about 374 helped raise prixreeds for Iwth organizations of $552. While raising the money we also enjoyed a fine musical **Paint Your Wagon" at Botsford Inn and retreated to a midnight supper. TO.M VERBIEST and TLM CRUICE 5er\-cd as coKJiairmen of the summer festi\-al held in co-operation with the Christ Child Society. 
Our annual football kickofT party was held on .^ September II at the Veteran's Memorial. At thi,^. alTair the club played host to local representatives of all teams Notre Dame encounters during the current >*ear and heard comments from these rep­resentatives as well as Lyle Smith, Wally Spol­stra and Edgar Haves, sports editors of our three newspapers. LOU CONROY and BOB VRONIN teamed together to make this a fine program, all for the unbelic\-able price of §1 per person. About 650 enthusiastic participants turned out. Special guests from the campus who spoke to the group included FATHER THO.NLVS O'DONNELL, C.S.C., jXssociate Director of tlie Notre Dame Foundation, and track coacli ALEX WILSON. ^ ' 
Plans for the club's Communion Breakfast an ^ being made hy ED RONEY and JACK SL.VT­TERY \rith Mass at Our Lady Star of the Sea Church in Grossc I*ointe and breakfast at the Grosse Pointe Yacht Club. Ed is planning on having baby sitters to take care of the children of tliosc members who might not be able to get awav otherwise. 
JIM CLEARY and JI.M GITRE have planned the cluJrs Christmas Dance for December 28. As before, it will be in conjunction with the Detroit Club on campus and is to be held at the Sheraton-^ Cadillac Hotel in downtown Detroit. ^ ' 
GUS CIFELLI is climrman of the retreat wliicli will be held on the first weekend of Lent at tfie Jesuit Retreat House of Manrcsa, It is expected that a large group will take advantage of this special event. 
In Afarch it'c plan a "I*ast Presidents Night" at which time honor will be paid to many of the men w-ho have made the Notre Dame Club of Detroit worthwhile in the past. JOHN ^\NHUT has been selected to cliairman tlic Universal Notre Dame Night meeting in .April. ^ 
—DAN F. BRADLEY, Secretary 

Eastern Kansas 
The following officers have been elected for the j 1936-57 term: President: PAUL HURD, '44; Vice-; President, WALTER STEVENS, '03; Treasurer, THOMAS DEVLIN, '49; Secretary, JOHN PARRY, '49. 
WALTER STEVENS, '03, received the ^fan of the Year Award. JOHN PARRY, Secy. ^ 
JE\ Paso 
Our July iiu-L'ting was lurid at the Falslair IIrtrwi*r>' and wx- were their gucits for a meetinR of nieinhers and wives. Tliis i\-pe of IUIXMI social incctini; is always successful, and especially popu­lar with the dlstafT side. 
Our August meeting «"as "slrictlv l>usine^s" and the dub was the guest of HALL.ARD L. FOES­TER, *44. fur a get-together at his home. Dis­cussion included the plans for a club trip to thi: XD-S.\fU game on Sept. 22nd. Tlie main item 
^>r business was the election of a slate of officers 
^o r tlie (x>tninc two year term. For president the club elected the undersigned. TIMOTHY HAN­Ri\Hx\X, *50. was x-oled to the vice-president's spot, and JA.MES R. FORD, '49, was elected a-. >ecrelar>"-treasurer. 
—GORMAN BROCK, *49, Pres. 

Evansviile 
The Xotre Daiue Club of E\'aii!tville held its 

annual fall outing on September 19 at the Old VIeidelberg in Mcsker I'ark. Scheduled activities "o r the afternoon included a *Svacky ball" golf 
tournament for the men and bridge for the ladies. A box lunch supper was enjoyed in the evening followed by bridge and dancing. 
—JOE TE.MBORIUS, Scc>-. 

Fort Lauderdole 
Recent summer meetings at the Governors* Club Iloiel were as follows; The lirst of these was held on the night of June l,4tli, 195G, with BOB GORE, JR., our Treasurer, 
presiding in the absence of JOHN SULLIVAN. Tills w-as a regular slag business meeting with nineteen nienihent In attendance, and enjoying a menu of Cornish game hen and champagne. It can't be said that we don't do things up right here in Ft. Lauderdale. 
At this same June 14lh meeting, wc were proud to add as new niembere JOHN AfcGLVN, J.ICK DONOHUE and BOB R^MNIER. 
It was also decided at this meeting, that the Club would sponsor a local fund drive with an award of a pair of Oklalioma-Notre Dame game tickets to the tucky donor. 
^ The Club publicly commended one of our mem­
bers of whom wc are very proud, C. N. McCUNE, for the scholarsliip which he has initiated for Fort Lauderdale, Central Catholic, South Broward and Pompano High School students. 
Our July 17th meeting, open to the ladies, fea­tured a Governors' Club spedal buiTet. Tlicrc were a total of 48 members and guests In attendance. 
Feature speaker was FATHER PHILLIP MOORE, Academic Vice-President at N.D., who gave us a new insight into the destiny of Notre Dainc as a University. Father Moore reviewed Notre Dame's history, various crises, and ultimate ••irning point Into a University of many colleges. 
• FATHE R MOORE'S inspiring talk was followed bv a few choice remarks from another honored guest, FATHER GEORGE McFADDEN, nephew of our member of the same name. Other guests jnduded MRS. JOSEPH THOMPSON, aVPTAIN and MRS. WILLIAM MARTIN, MR. and MRS. FRED L. BR.\Y, .MR. and MRS. DWIGHT MIL­LEMAN, MRS. VERA GROVE and our ever welcome Miami representatives, MR. and MRS. MIKE ZORO\'ICH and MR. and MRS. ED KELLY. Also In attendance after a long absence were MR. and MRS. R. H. GORE, SR. 
jj\A novel idea was proposed by PRESIDENT 
TDHN SULLIV^VX to set up a blood bank at the focal Ifoly Cross Ifospital for Notre Dame men and their families. .-Vt the next meeting each of us will have our blood typed and then later a card w-ill be filled out completely setting forth this blood type and places where we can be readied. This card will then be filed at the iios­pital as part of Notre Dame's blood bank. M blood may be needed in the future by a member or his family, wc shall be subject to call. 
It was also decided that the dub would put  Christmas dance this vear and a committee 

fa 
three consisting of FR.ANCIS MOSS, JI.M NO­L.\N and TO.M CULLINAN, was appointed to handle details. 
The Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale held Its regular monthly meeting on Thursday, Septem­ber 13lh, at the Governors' Club Hotel. 
President JOHN SULLIVAN presided with oc­casional assists from BOB GORE. This was an open meeting with wives and guests invited, and tvc had a total turnout of fifty. 
.Among the guests were MR. and MRS. DICK KERRIGAN, '41, and MR. and MRS. JACK MUR­
Tx\UGH, '41. We understand that Dick has 
dedded to stay and niaku this his permanent 
home, and we expect to sec more of Jack if he 
succeeds in finding the right road again. 
The sole feature of our evening, in the ab­

sence of any guest speakers, was a fine roast beef 
dinner. The only ilenis of business discussed 
ronsislffd <»f a ireasur>' report, and news of a 
conditional offer (?) of a fair-sized donation to 
<uir Notre Dame Foundation drive from a mystery 
(?) donor. 
—RICHARD T. WH.ALFJV, Sccv. 

Fort Wayne 
In Jtme the club held its annual stag at Mr. U'. S. O'Rourke's place in the countr>* and there were about 50 members attending. JOE BAR­BERIE was chairman of the affair and had JOHN .ANKENBRUCK in charge of fr>ing the ham­burgers and providing the other customary refresh­ments. i\RTrE HOFF.MAN again took care of seeing that the volley ball and baseball equipment needs were met and BERNIE NIEZER was in charge of the grounds. The>- did a ginxl job and everybody stayed until the mosquitoes broke up the p.irty and the poker game. 
—R. J. KLINGENBERGER, Secy. 

Grand Rapids 
The Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids held Its Third Annual Golf Stag at Cascade Hills Coun­try Club September I2lh. It was the biggest turn­out We have had for this event—seventy-two for golf, one hundred for the steak dinner. BISHOP BABCOCK, MOOSE KR,\USE and JOHNNY JORD.AN were special guests of the club. DICK McCOR.MICK, co-chairman with FRANK THRi\LL, recaptured the dub championship from BOB LINSEY. ED TWOHY won the main door prize, a portable television set. FR/\NK GEORY was loastmaster for the program which featured 
ED^ KRAUSE. Moose explained the University's 
position on atlilettc acholarshipf, te}evision^ and 
football schedules. —CHARLES W. DUFFY, '37 
Hawaii 
The Noln- Dame Club of Hawaii invites all alumni, whether they he nillitarv- men stationed in Hau:ait or tourists, to attend club meetings in Honolulu. Infonnation can be obtained by calling TOM FL\'NN, phone 6-8083; TO.M HOPKINS, (Sports Editor of the Honolulu Star-Bulletin) phone 5-7911; or BILL H^VNIFIN, phone 6-7718. 
_Alumnt and friends attended a meeting on August 17 at the Moana Hotel to honor returning stu­dents and also DR. THO.\L\S DOOLEY, author of the best seller "Deliver Us From Evil." There were 54 in attendancn Including Rev. Daniel Dever. superintendent of Catholic schools of Hawaii. 
REV. ROBERT LOCHNER, CS.C , Director of Student /\id at Notre Dame, was a recent visitor in Honolulu and was guest of honor at a meeting held on September 7 in the home of TOM FLYNN. FATHER LOCHNER spoke informally to a group of about 50 regarding the University. 
—BILL HANIFIN, Seci*. 

Idaho 
Alumni and members of their family enjoyed the club's annual summer outing, which was held at Silver City and featured a big steak dinner. JOE NETTLETON was again the host lor the affair. 
Kansas City 
Tlic University of Notre Dame Club of Kansas City held their annual picnic at the Silver Spur Cnuntr>- Chib south of Kansas City on August 20. 
CANADA—^Thosc attending the club's first formal mcctiog included: (bottom row, left to right) Gerry Oluell, Father Desjardains, Peter Reiner; (middle row, left to right) Brother Jerome, Paul LaFramboise, Jack Langlois; (top row, left to right), Ed Mulcair, Bob Heneault and Joe Brennan. 
ffotre Dame Alumnus,':Nou.-Dec., 1956 25 
ROME—A large turnout of alumni and friends attended the celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night in Rome, Italy. 
JACK HAYES, club trexsurer, was chairman; and after a complete barbecue dinner, outdoor dancing and swimming was available. Dancing entertainment v\-as provided, and DA\ ^ CROOKS gave an im­promptu "Log Balancing Act." 
The Notre Dame men in attendance were BOB NIGRO; BOB MEUNIER; JIM D'COURSEY, who is a student past president just out of the Na\'\': JOE VAN DYKE; TOM McGEE, who had six guests; BOB METZLER, who had eaght guests: JACK HAYES, who had three guests. Also in attendance were CRAIG W'HITAKER; BOB DOWNER; JOHN SEE; DICK PREZBEL, who ad­vised that he has transferred to a" better position with an advertbing company in Chicago. HERB SIEGLER had four guests along %*-ith TOM REAR­DON. Wc had a total attendance of about one hundred Notre Dame Alumni, students and friends. 
Our Annual Freshman Scnd-OfT Dinner was held on September 5 at Milliman's Restaurant on the Countn- Club Plaza. ED ALWTARD did a fine job as cliainnan with approximately twenty-five students and a total of over seventy alumni and guests in attendance. Fourteen new students were given an orientation talk by student club presi­dent DAVE THOMPSON of St. Joseph, Missouri. CRJVIG \\*HITAKER, sdiolarship chairman, intro­duced the scholarsiiip candidates, Clifford MuIHn and Edward Boyle along w-ith tlie scholarship fund winner for this year, Edward Kroll. Tills is a $1660 award or $400 per year. 
RUSSELL J. FARRELL, club president, gave a welcome address and a short talk on the oppor­tunities that Notre Dame gives a student outside of education. 
A joint lunclieon with the Iowa Club of Kansas City and the Notro Dame Club of Kansas City is tentatively planned for November, at whicli time both college groups will get together and enjoy the football Fdms of the game. 
Our annual Christmas dance will be held again tliis vear at the President Hotel December 2G. BERNARD FINUa\NE, '46, is the chairman. 
—BOB NIGRO. SCC>-. 
Kentucky 
The Notre Dame Club of Kentucky liad a Dinnc Meeting in June. Students and recent gmduatct: were guests of the Club. 
In July tlic Notre Dame Alumni and students 

26 Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 
had their annual outing witli the Xavier Univer­sity Altunni and students. Xavier U. Alumni won the annual softball game from the N.D. men. JOE HARMON, JR., was in cliarge of ihc Notre Dame part of the outing. 
The August meeting was *^FooibaIl Kickoff Night." Tlie film "Notre Dame Football High­lights of 1935" was shown. New Notre Dame freshmen and tlieir Dads were inxited to the meeting. 
On September 2nd, the Club's quarterly Corporate Communion Sunday was obser\'ed. After Mass at St. Mary Magdalen's Church a breakfast was serx'ed at the scliool. 
At the montlily meeting on September 20tli. JACK KINNEY made a report on the Club's forthcoming football trip. Jack is chairman of the train trip, which will go to the Notre Danie-Michigan State game. 
—BILL PALMER, Scc>-. 
Los Angeles 
On Sunday. August 26, tlie Annual Notre Dame Picnic was held at the St. Vincent de Paul Boys* Camp. Approximately 300 alumni and families were there. Tlie Club supplied all of the liquid refresh­ments and each family brought a picnic basket. The Camp has a mmt beautiful swimming pool, where the kids enjoyed themselves. As usual, the Club put on various kinds of races, distributing Notie Dame shirts, caps and Yo-yo's. as prizes. ALEC SKELLOGG was in charge of the athletic events; genial GENE Ci\LHOUN, as usual, was at the front gate to collect the money. DICK BOWES of the Notre Dame Foundation put in his appear­ance to make sure that things were functioning prop-rly. 
The Retreat, which took place September 7-8-9 at the Jesuit Retreat House. '*Manresa," Jn ^Veusa, was well attended by the Club. As a matter of fact, it was the largest turnout wc have had to date GENE CiVLHOUN is to be commended for this record turnout, since he has been pushing the Retreat each year. Tliis year wc had a total of 40 members of our Club at the Retreat House. I believe the capacity is 50 Rctreatants, so by- the way Wc have been increasing cacli year I imagine wc will fill Manresa in 1957. 
On September 19, Los Angeles Notre Dame Club had its annual Sports Dinner at the Pabst Bre^v­cry in Los Angeles. GEORGE STROHMEYER^­".A.ll-.\inerican Center," was blaster of Ceremonies. George is now coach at Sierra High Scliool. There w-as a good turnout and the Club enjoyed DICK BOWES' first hand report on the prospects for the 1956 team. TOM LIEB expressing the feelings of the entire Notre Dame Club, said he would be on hand to see the *'Fighting Irish" take over the Trojans, lock, stock and barrel, December 1st. DICK HtVNOUSEK, one of the "Seven Mules,*' gave a very interesting talk on his experi­ences as a member of Rockne's great team. Wc are all anxiously au'aiting the return of TERRY BRENNAN and tlie boys to put tilings righu, in the Coliseum December 1st. % 
—GEORGE R. MEEKER, Pres. 
Mexico City 
The Mexico City Club met on August 16 in the Universitv Club. The local alumni in charge were TELMO DE L.\NDERO and RICHARD LEON. Honored guests at the banquet were Fx\THER ROBERT PELTON and Professor JAMES P. DANEHY, both members of the Notre Danic faculty. They gave brief talks to the a?-» scmbled ahinini. w 
Miami 
The club's annual picnic was held at Crandon Park on Aug. 25. Football parlitss have been, and arc slated for, as follows: HENRY KEEL*s for the Indiana same, GEORGE BRjMJriGAM for Purdue. GEORGE COURY for .Michigan Stale. ED KELLY fur the Pilt game. .MIKE ZORO­VITCH has the North Carolina game, PAUL GLiVSS will hoM the Iim-a party and FRED PI ^ WATY for the USC Kanic. % 
Midland 
A new club has been organized in the Midland-Odessa, Texas, area. Fourteen alumni are living in these two cities. JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, JR., national president of the Alumni Association, gave a dinner for the group which included alumni. Notre Dame students and their fathers on Sep­tember 10 at the Petroleum Club. 
—JOHN L. BUCKLEY, '38 

, Milwaukee 
TIic club coopemted u-idi the Gus Dorats Hall of Famt: Committee and met \%'tth the group regularly imttl aftrr the ceremony was held. 
Muskegon 

TIic pre-season football rally was held ou Sept. 17 at Bill Stern's Steak House. It was a family­>tvlc dinner with movies of tlie 1955 Highlights. 
.JACK FIT2PATRICK was in charge of the affair. 
New Jersey 
The local .\lumni Club held llieir aimual elec­tions this summer and tlic following men were elected for tlie ensuing club year. Tlic general meeting and election was held at the Militar\' Park Hotel in Ne%%ark, X. J. 
President, ROBERT JOYCE; vice-presidenl. PHILIP J. S.VNDMAIER; treasurer, ROBERT J. LARKIX; Secretary, JOHN F. KELLY. 
^ GREG RICE, former Irish track star, was the truest speaker at Uic Freshman Welcome of the S'otrc Dame Club of New Jersey held at the Miliiar>- Park Hotel. Over 150 people attended the aiFair. Tlie affair is staged annually for ne%vly enrolled students at the University. 
Rice, who now lives in River Edge, New Jersey, was one of tlic greatest long distance runners. He still holds the world^s indoor record for the three mile run. He Is currently president of the National ND Monogram Club. 
.\mong the students enrolled at Notre Dame this fall arc two Ne*v Jersey athletes, Charles Scriva­l^nich of St. Mary's High School, Rutherford, and James Hannan, of St. Peter's Prep, Jersey City, 
-V. J; 
Scrivanicli made an impressive record In football, basketball and baseball at St. Mary's. An out­standing pitclier, he holds the Bergen County strike­out record. He vvas an All-State selection In his senior year. 
Hannan acliieved excellent scliolastlc record and is considered an outstanding baseball prospect. —JOHN F. KELLY, Sec>-. 
^New Mexico 
Tile Notre Dainc Club of New Mexico at it.s July meeting in .-Mbuqucrtiue elected the followng officers: LOUIS LUJAN, president; GEORGE SCHREIBER, vice-president; FR^VNK HUDSON, treasurer; JERRY LOMBARDI, secretary. 
Flans were discussed at the meeting for a social affair later in the year. 
—JERRY LO.MBARDI, '+», Secy. 

New Orleans 
Tile officers of the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans for 1956 are as follows: 
President, PETER L. HILBERT, '50. 
Vice-President, J,V.MES E. S.MITH, '30. 
Secrctar>-Treasurer, THO.\i;\S J. McMAHOX. 
—PETER L. HILBERT, President 

New York City 
Our /Vnnual Golf Outing was a ver>* great success under tlic able direction of Chairman JIM HE.ANEY at Rock\-ille Country Club on August I6th. AVell over 70 golfers leeid ofT, some hearty ones getting in 36 holes. A delicious buffet was served in tlie evening at xv-liich time tlio prizes were awarded. We ^vant to thank AL /\N/\STASIA, TOM DELIA, TONY E/\RLEY. BILL FALLON, JIM GALLxVGHER, BILL GALLLV, JOHN LAW, CHARLIE MET2GER, "BUD" MULVEY, JIM POWERS, GERRY S.AEGERT, GEORGE SHEr\ and any others w-ho donated prizes, thus adding to the success of the affair. The more prizes, the more enJo\Tnent of the outing. JIM HEJVNEY and his committee arc to be congratulated on running .such a fine affair. 
Tlie Club held its Frcsliman Smoker at the .Vew York Atliletic Club on September 5th for the ne^v students who arc entering sdiool, and their fathers. It \vas estimated well over 100 attended as mo\-ies were sliown of campus life and acti\-ities, and short talks were given by the president and a representative from school. The ne\v students Were then given opportunities to ask questions of current seniors, relative to their respective colleges or ROTC program. 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of New York ran a >pecial train to the N.D.-Navy game on November 3 in Baltimore. BUD MULVEY sen-cd as chair­man of the trip. 
The Board of Governors feel tliat diis is a ver>' worthwhile activity judging from the attendance and the favorable comments of the parents who came from great distances to attend. 
^GEORGE L. OLVANY, Secretary 

Northern California 
The club held a meeting on August 27 which featured tho Highlights film and discussion took place for the annual student scadoff party. Sug­gestions were given for ways of welcoming TERRY BRENNAN and three Irish stars at the East-West game in January. There was a buffet supper at the Leopard Cafe. 
North Dakota 
The organizational meeting took place on Sep­tember 8, 1956, In the Princess Room of the Prince Hotel at Bismarck, North Dakota. Scmie eighteen graduates and students attended from all parts of North Dakota and enjoyed an informal social period, buffet dinner and meeting.' WIL­LL\M J. DANNER, attomey-at-law with the North Dakota Legislative Research Committee, 'v^-as elected president and the undersigned was elected secretary-treasurer. 
It Is planned to have an annual meeting and was recommended that the next meeting include the ladies and a speaker from Notre Dame If possible. 
—ERNEST R. FLECK, Secy. 

North Florida 
On Saturday, August II, the club held the first of our contemplated annual summer outings. T%venty adults and eighteen children attended a picnic at Jacksonville Beach, Fla., and enjoyed the planned program of games, relaxation and refresh­ments. AL KESSING ser\'ed as the diiurman of the event. 
FRED R^\H.AI.M was selected as the Man of the Year at our Universal Notre Dame Night banquet. Fred was honored for his ever-continuing interest in youth programs and participation In the activi­ties of the North Florida Notre Dame Club. 
Our second annual Friendly Foes Smoker was held at the Roosevelt Hotel in Jacksonville on September 6. Fifty-six men representing Notre Dame and eight of our 1956 football opponents enjoyed the refreshments and movies of the 1955 Notre Dame-MIchlgan State game plus the 1955 Football Highlights. JOE HARTZER handled most of the arrangements as chairman with the help of DICK BRODEUR, club president. 
On Wednesday, October 3, the regular monthly meeting was held at the Florida Theatre Building. Members of the club and their 'wives and guests enjoyed a sneak preview of a current movie which was provided by LOU FINSKE. Dick Brodeur presided at the meeting at which plans were madr for a TV party for the Oklahoma-Notrc Dame game. Preliminary plans for our annual Com-
CHICAGO—Club officials admire the winning horse of the Fighting Irish Handicap, held on Notre Dame Night at Sportsman Park. The event was sponsored by the Chicago ND Alunmi Club and attracted many alunmi and guests. From left to right: Mrs, Hickey; Robert E. Wright, club president; Mrs. Wright; and William Hickey and Tom Nash, co-chairmen.. 
Notre Dame AlumnttSy Nov.-Dec.j 1936 27 
MIDLAND—Information has just been received of Notre Dame's newest local alumni club. Organized in Midland, Te.vas and including alumni also from nearby Odessa the first meeting was for Notre Dame students and their fathers. Top row (left to right): John O'Hern, Clarence Nugent, Richard Welter, Jack Conry, Bud Chaput and Virgil Kennedy. Third row (left to right): Very Rev. Thomas Kennedy, O.M.I., Larry McLafferty, Roger Cummings, Byrne O'Neill, John Buckley, N D Alunmi Association national president Joseph I. O'Neill, Jr., and Richard Folger. Second row (left to right): George Pelleticr, Sr., Victor McCrca, Sr., John Sweeney, Sr., M. T. Stalltcr, RalpJ? Geislcr and Walter Duncan, Jr. First row (left to right): George Pelleticr, Jr., Victor McCrea, Jr., John Sweeney, Jr., Graham Nugent, Terrell Stalltcr, Gene Geisler and Gerald Geislcr. 
munion Breakfast on Dccrmbcr 5 wt-rc also dis­cussed. —JOHN CORRIGAN, Sco-. 
Northwestern Ohio 
Tile Club nift on October 11 to plan for an excursion to the Notre Danie-North Carolina game on Xovetnbrr 17. 
—BILL SHANAHxVN, President 

Ohio Valley 
The new officers of Oliio Valley Notre Danie Club for 195G-37 arc: 
President, ROBERT SINCAVICH, '30; vice-presi­dent, JAMES J. HARANZO, •52; secretarv-trcas­urer. ROBERT GRIFFITH, '49. 
—J.AMES J. HAR.\NZO, \lce-Pres. 

Oklahoma City 
The July meeting was held at *McFarIand"s Club House as ^^-as tlie annual picnic on Aug. 26. Tlicrc was a fine turnout of 45 members and fam­ilies at tJie picnic Tlic September meeting was held at BUCKY O'CONNOR's home at %vhicli time vc decided to establish an annual Christma.'> Dance. 
—ED KAVANAUGH 

Omaha and Council Bluffs 
The cJub*s organizational meeting took place on August 16. At that time the following officers were elected: president. HERB SAMPSON, '50; vice-president, TOM WALSK/JR., '42; secretary. WILLIAM SEIDLER, '52; and treasurer, JOHN WTNGENDER, '48. The board > of directors con­sists of ED LEVINSON, WALT McCOURT. DENNIS RADFOPvD, MATT FLINN, ROBERT ROHLING and HENRY ROGERS. 
• —WILLIAM SEIDLER, Secretar>­

28 ,Notre Dame Alumnus^ Nov.-Dec.j 1956 
Oregon 
The Notre Dame Club of Oregon held its most successful dance in its historv* at the ^\'ave^Iy Country Club in, Portland, on August 24tli. The purpose of the social gathering was to %velcome recent graduates and a send-ofT for the present group of students at N.D. from Oregon. PETE MURPHY, JR. from Portland was chairman of the group which consisted of present students at N.D, who arc members of the Northwest Club. Mrs. Peter Murphy, Sr. supcri'ised the decora­tions which were in a football motif. Tlie fol­lowing boys were honored: Bill Barrett, Albany; Dick Brenner, Eugene; John Bums, Condon; Bob Dv\-\er, Portland; Tom Huglies, Portland; Phil Kelzer, North Bend; Doug Legg, Portland; Den­nis McLaughlin, Portland; Jim Moran, Portland; Pete Murphy, Jr., Portland; Larr\- Newman, Mil­waukie; Jim NJcliols; Dick Piescr, Klamath Falls; .\mbrosc Scitz, Portland; Francis Smith, Portland; Levvis Smith, Portland; Phalcn Thompson, Eugene; David Tliompson, Eugene. 
This group is the largest ever attending Notre Daniu from Orvgon at one time. 
Plans have been completed by BILL SCHMIDT, our Foundation Governor, to insure the active participation by all Notre Danic men and friends in this area during the coming year. 
All in all it looks like a big year under the leadership of our able president, HUGH LACEY, JR. for the Notre Dame Club of Oregon. 
—PETE SANDROCK, Scc>-. 

Peoria 
The following arc selling as officers of tlie club during the current year: JACK CASSIDY, president; DICK WALSH, \-icc-president; PAUL COOG,\X, secrclars-; and JAMES SCHERER, treasurer. Tlic alumni club appreciates the great job done by tlie outgoing president DR. CLAR­
E.VCE WARD and his officers, JERRY WOM­BACHER, JACK CASSIDY and JOE L.VNGTON. —PAUL COOGAN, See}-. 
Philadelphia 
Our opening meeting for tlie '56-'57 year «•*>. held at the Philopatrians on September Ilth. 0\iCy 150 turned out for the meeting, a fine tribute to the hard work prexy BILL BURNS and diaimian JACK DEMPSEY put into making this year's in­augural an auspicious one. 
FATHER Mca\FFERTY, C.S.C., and Class of 1936 ga\"e the opening prayer and also gave an interesting talk on the Medical Mission Sisters for whom he is chaplain. 
CIL\RLEY CONLEY reported on the progress of tho raffle we have undcr%s*ay. He advised that it is really getting up steam for nearly 5300.00 was turned in to him at this meeting. | ^ 
JOHN VOIT, Chairman of the ND-Nav>' fooV-^ ball game trip, informed us of the arrangements and cost. $11.00 for trip and ticket or $6.00 for train trip alone. The train will leave 30th St. station in Pliilly at 10:00 a.m. on Nov. 3rd, the : morning of the game, and return from Baltimore at \ 
10:00
 p.m. following the game. ^Vnyonc interested in this trip should get their cliccks in now to Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia, c/o JOHN 

H.
 NEESON, Fidelitv-Phila. Trust BIdg., Phila­delphia 9, Pa. 


JACK DEMPSEY gnvc a report on the FounA^ tion, bringing out that in a short ten years, NotV?'; Dame has become one of the leaders in the college fund-raising field and it will take only a small effort on the part of those who have not partici­pated heretofore to put ND in the top spot. 
JACK then told us of the arrangements made through Mutual Broadcasting to have the Notre Dame games on station WIP in Pluladelpltia—with our own JOE BOLAND doing the description. He then introduced Jim Lccming, sports director l 
of WIP. 
MR. ^L A. BRUDER, father of a present stu-S 
m 

DES MOINES—Participating in the club's Family Outing were; (photo on left, left to right) Jim Dinnen, Mrs. Dinnen, Mrs. Casey, Joe 
Casey, Ben Condon; {middle photo, 
tlciit and sponsor of tlic Monday night tcleca^Ls of the ND games was introdtictd. Hu advLscd his pleasure in being able to give Philadelphia these telecasts of our ganifs. uliich. thi.s year will be on Channel 12 from 8:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. on Mon­davs following the games. 
AMBROSE (BUD) DUDLEY gave a ver>- inter­esting and informative talk on the prospects of his Villanova Wildcats for the coming season. Bnd alio has aiiollier avlravagan^a coiiiin.i; up for one of their games which he feels will bring him another 100.000 cri>wd. 
W.-VLT GROTH.VUS gave us an Insight into the footl)aIl prospects for this year as Walt was at 5ch(«d for (lie opening fajl practice. Jle ivarncd us not to expect miracles this vear. 
ED HUXSINGER of the famous Seven Mules reminisced on the Four Horsemen davs. He picked GEORGE GIPP, backfield. and HUNK AN­DERSOX, line, as the greatest players he ever saw. Ed also gave a verv* inspiring talk to those frcsiunen present who are to make their start at ND this year. BILL BURNS then had these new students introduce themselves. 
Bill brought out the plans for making Com­munion Sunday on December 9th the greatest ever. He pointed out that this is truly the representa­tive Notre Dame way and is the most important Notre Dame day of the year. In connection with this he is working on arrangements to have a national figure as speaker at the breakfast. 
The meeting was concluded uith the showing of the ftKitball highlights of 1935 through the courtesy and help of ever faithful TY DEMPSEV. 
—HAROLD E. DUKE, Sec>-. 
Pittsburgh 
The annual golf tournameni was held on Sep­tember 5 at the Butler Country Club. GENE COYNE ser\'ed as clialrman of the affair. 
Rhode Island 
Club members are pleased to know that Lt. Governor JOH.N McKIERNAN, our Man of the 

 left to right), Fred Nesbit, George Pflanz; (photo on right, left to right) Dick Ark­
wright, Nancy Arkwright and Paul Eidc. 
Year, has been named superior court judge- The club v%-as honored in having FATHER HESBURGH as guest speaker on UND Night which was held at Providence College vvith Rev. Father Slavin, O.P., acting as a most gracious and generous host. The governor, mayor, etc., were all on hand to share the glories of this particular evening. The only change in oihcers was made with JOE DOORLEY being elected treasurer and the imdersigned being named secretary*. President J.-UIES MURPHY, JR., and Mrs. Murphy are the parents of a new hon born last Jime 6. 
-•V few weeks ago a father and son get-together was held to send off the freshman students. It was a real Rhode Island clambake and there u-as plenty of uood ''libation" thanks to the efforts of JOHN .McLvVUGHLIN. 
MIKE .MAHONEY was married to Ellen Goggin at St. Margaret's in Rumford. R. I. 
—PAUL HOEFFLER, Secretary-
RBO Grande 
In the past few montlis the club has sponsored a Universal -Notre Dame Night dinner, two Com­munion Breakfasts and a beach party on the Gulf of Mexico. In memory* of the late DON CJVRILLO, who was the principal organizer of our group, the club has named him as president. BOB AZIS has been elected vice-president and will act as presi­dent. Rf\Y TOLSON is treasurer and the under­signed is club secretary-. 
—JOHN A. LOCHT, Secretary 
Rochester 
JOHN ^facCf\ULEY, Foundation representative, was a guest of the local duffers at a golf party in July. Besides a sterling exhibition of shots, "NIac'* told us of the fine work being accomplished by the Foundation. BILL REEVES took Io\v gross with a 75. CHARLIE O'BRIEN and JOE GER­AGHT\* sponsored this event. August brought the family picnic. The Alumni and their friends totaled 99 in all, TIic affair was held at Mendon Park. The highlight of the picnic, directed bv DON BOOTH, was a Softball game ' and assorted contests under the supervision of TO.M HIGGINS, JACK HEAGNEY, DICK KLEE %vhile PAUL PARKER helped with the arrangements. 
Incoming freshmen at Notre Dame, were enter­tained by Alumni.and Notre Dome students on the last Sunday in August. GENE YURGE^VLITIS and BOB MOIL\N, seniors at^-Noire Dame, were chairmen of the cvent.r Movies and informal talks highlighted life on the campus. 
JIM ARMSTRONG paid us a visit in early Scp­tembec A dinner was held in his honor at the Hotel Rochester. BIL BELL and BILL MER­RIMAN, classmates of Armstrong renewed acquaint­ences. Jim kept us informed on Alumni doings around the country. 
TIic Rochester Alumni's program of monthly luncheons is pron'ng ver%- popular. Such illustrious members as JACK BURKE, KE.V POWER, VIC DcSIMON, ART CURR/VN, GUS FALCONE, ARNIE MORRISON and AL ROCHE arc among the friendly faces at the Hotel Rochester meetings. 
New additions to the Rochester Club include CH.\RLEY TIERNEY, DICK HYL.\ND, and GER­RY McGVBE. JOE FLOOD has relumed to Roches­ter and is now with Mtd-States Trucking. TOAJ LISTON was recently appointed vice-president and general operating manager of Sibley, Lindsay & Curr Co. This necessitated his cliange of address from Chicago to Rochester. (Ed. Note: Tom is a 

•
 . "Spotlight Alumnus" in this issue. JC). .3ILL 

•5,
 REEVES is reccinng congratulations on his suc­"^.J ccssful completion of the New York State bar j ' - e.\amination. 


The Notre Dame women in Rochester have been very active in planning several events. The new officers of the dub are MRS. Jx\CK HE.\GNEY, president; MRS. TOM HIGGLNS, vicc-prcsident; MRS. REGINALD MORRISON, recording secre­tary; MRS. VINCENT SULUV.XN, corresponding secretary; MRS. JOHN BURKE, treasurer; MRS. DAS BOOTH, historian. Their first meeting was held September 22nd at the Chatterbox Club with .MRS. ERIC JOHN SCOTT as Chair^voman. 

SAN DIEGO—(Photo on left). Picnic Chairman Howard Beiktein, '47, left, gets assistance at the cooking grill from G. R. "Jerry" Bill, ^ *29, as they turn out hamburgers and hot dogs for a crowd of more than 100 at the July picnic of the San Diego alumni held at Holiday Ranch, east of San D'lcgo. (Photo on right), San Diego alunmi and their families enjoyed a dip during annual picnic. 
• Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.'Dec, 1956 29 
NEW YORK CITY—Participants at the club's 4th Annual Night at Ebbets Field included, left to right: John Duffy, co-chairman; President Tony Earley; and Bud Mulvey, co-chairman. Two hundred and thirty-eight alumni and guests enjoyed a buffet supper and watched the Dodgers and Giants. 
MIAMI—Frank Shaughnessy, '06, left, president of the International League baseball loop, presented the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami All-Florida Catholic baseball award to Joe DiMare of St. Patrick's High. The presentation was made before 6,000 fans at home plate of Miami Stadiimi preceding the start of the Miami-Montreal baseball game. Looking on is club president Michael 2^rovich. The Miami club annually selects a Catholic high school all.star baseball team for the state of Florida. 
The RocJiester Club is greatly honored by the ^ fact that one of its former presidents and Man-^ of-the-Year, DICK SULLIVAN, has been nominated | for election to the Alumni Board of Directors. t 
—BILL DEMPSEY, Sco-. | 

Rock River Valley 1 
On August 19th tlic Rock River Notre Dauic j Club held their Annual Club Sug Picnic at JOE 
BITTORF'S Simimcr Home. It ivas well attended 
and it looked like ever>-one in attendance was a\ having a ver>- good time. About 35 enjoyed Vy the outing. The Club is sponsoring a Football Special to the loua-N.D. ganic, proceeds of whicli will go to our Scholarship Fund. We arc very sorr>* to lose one of our most active members in the person of DR. GENE SULLIVAN of Amboy, 
111. Gene is closing his office and has accepted a position in the Research Department of the University of Minnesota Hospital and \\orfcing in conjunction with the Mayo Clinic 
—JOHN H. C/VHILL, '33, SCQ , 
©Rome 

Tlic Notre Dome Alumni Chib of Rome had a special meeting ivhicli was attended by represen­tatives who were at the General Chapter of the Congregation of Holy Cross held in Rome this past summer. TJie dinner was Iield at the Scoglio di Frisio Restaurant. Among those present from Notre Dame were FATHER HESBURGH and FATHER GRIMM. Also FATHER MEHLING and FATHER AJULLAHY from the Indiana Prov­ince in South Bend. FATHER KENNA reprr­scnied the Univepiity of Portland. {>) 
Salina 
The Salina Notre Dame Club has its Annual Fall Husband-and-Wifc Gct-To-Gcther last night at the Salina Country Club. We had 10 members present, witfi their wives, whicIi was an all-time high for any of our parties. Wc had two new Notre Dame graduates present, with their wives; one of them w^s LT. DAVE DEWEESE, and his wife, Sally, of Muskegon, Michigan. Dave was a member of the Class of '54 and is stationed Atjr\ Smoky Hill Air Force Base, in Salina. KJ 
The other was JOHN C. BROWNE, Class of '5!, who is now running a Women's Department Store, in Clay Center, Kansas. He and his wife, Ruth, drove ovxr. 
President BOB McAULIFFE gave us a compre­hensive report on the Presidents' Meeting, held on the campus in June. It certainly was most enlightening to all of us. 
LT. JOHN GUSTAINIS, also stationed at Smoky Hill Air Force Base, has been on detached duty in England, and at the present time is on de­tached duty somewhere up north. 
—ALBERT J. SCHUARTZ, '37, Secx: 0 

San Antonio 
Officers for 1956 are: president, JESSE B. POS­TON; wc-prcsident, JOHN VAUGHAN; secrclar>-­trcasurer, BILL LAMM. Directors will include DICK KEOUGHx\N, JOHN BITTER, RALPH STRUHS and TOM ROYER. The club ran a special football trip to the S.\fU-Notre Dame game in Dallas which was chairraanncd by Ralph Struhs and MIKE CONLEY. Proceeds will be ^ applied to the scliolarship fund. ^J 
Son Diego 
San Diego alumni launclied preparations fur the third annual Appreciation Night banquet, a civic testimonial honoring all the high school coaches and administrators of San Diego, as their major fall-winicr project. 
In co-sponsorship with St. Augustine High Sdtool. the alumni group will present the testimonial Jan-^^ 31 witli Coach Hugh "DutTy" Daughcrty of Michi-@ gan State Unix-ersity as principal speaker. For­mation of committees began early in October. 
Otiier fall-winter activities will include the tradi­tional telension smoker on Oct. 27 when Notre Dame and Oklahoma meet in the TV football i game of the week and a bus trip to the Southern Califomia-Notre Dame game in Los Angeles Dec. 
1. The TV smoker will be held at the home of club president HARRY MONAHAN, '50. 
San Diego was introduced to some Notre Dame influenced football on Sept. 29 when LA\VRENCE "BUCK" SHAW brought his Air Force Academv 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec.y 1956 
team to town for its season opener against the University of San Diego. Both schools were field­

•Aing their first \'arsity football teams, but the \-is­
ilors showed the class of a year of freshman cNperi­ence by winning easily, 46-0. 
Summer events started with a picnic in July at Holiday Ranch, east of San Diego, attended by more than 100 members of alumni families. HOW­.-VRD BEILSTEIN, '47. was chairman of the pic­nic assisted by FRANCIS "RED " DAVIS, '48 and Monahan. 

Spaghetti was the main dish for a family dinner held in August ai the liomc of MARIANNE AND ^ UGO ROSSI, '42 attended by 30. Tlie Rossis were 
* ^ given a helping hand by Patricia and Howard Bcilstein. 
At the fall business meeting, held in September at the home of the club president, procedures for nominating officers and "Nian of the Year" can­didates were approved. The club's past presidents wilt form the committee to nominate three candi­dates for "Man of the Year" award to' be voted upon by the members. The ttvo members of the board and the club chaplain will form a nomi­nating committee to submit a slate of two officers 

^ for each pxsitiori at the spring election. # —HARRY MONAHxVN, Prcs. 
Schenectady 
Tlie Schenectady Notre Dauie Cliib held its an­nual student scndofT party on September G at the Edison • Club. A buffet supper %vas ser\'ed and alumni, students and their fathers had an oppor­tunity to get acquainted. 
Plans arc being made for future club events including a Notre Dame Retreat, a Communion 

•Sunday and Christmas Dance. —WILLIAM G. LEONARD, Pres. 
Shreveport 
The members of the Shreveport Noire Dame Club and their wives attended as a group the 

S.M.U. game in Dallas on September 22 of this year. 
The local club is having its annual barbecue on October 27 and will w-atch the Notre Dame-Oklahoma game on TV. The club will also hold its annual election of officers at this meeting. The 
0 group will also consider at this meeting the pos­sibility of chartering a train for a group trip to the Oklalioma-Notre Dame game in Norman. Okla­homa, in 1957. 
—GEORGE J. DESPOT, Scc>-. 

South Carolina 
Officers for the South Carolina Club have not been selected as yet, because of reasons of un­familiarity. However, with the several meetings we have had, people have become acquainted with 
^ one another, and we plan fo elect officrrs in the 
^ near future. Tlie Board of Directors Is as follows; I year term: EDWARD J. DAILEV, chairman: S. W. GWINN. 2 year term: JAMES A. ECKENRODE, GEORGE S. NICHOLS. 3 >-ear term: REX E. ENRIGHT and W. J. DUNHAM. 
The Club program as presently outlined for the coming year is: Retreat at Seminar>' to coincide ivith Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. Business Meeting at Columbia. S. C , St. Pat­rick's Day. B Universal Notre Dame Night—Place and time lo be arranged at later date. 
Main primary* objective — To arouse interest in the Club and Notre Dame by soliciting University participation in School events with Schools in this state. 
—ED D.AILEY, Chmn., Board of Directors 

South Central Wisconsin 
On August 23, 1936, the annual summer outing 

H for the South Central Wisconsin Notre Dame Club was held at the Dodge-Point Counir>- Club in Dodgeville, Wisconsin. The success of the program is credited to the personal efforts of the chairman, FRANK D. HAMILTON. FATHER HENRY, Oregon, Wisconsin reflected on the character and value of Notre Dame men in marital and social lives in bis talk as the speaker for the evening , President PAUL R. BREXNAN is making prepa­rations for a TV Smoker for the Oklahoma-Nolre Dame game on October 27. The turning of our 
DETROIT—Universal Notre Dame Night in Detroit, chainnanncd by Paul Foley and Don Herron, featured speakers and guests from the University and leading industrial companies. 
green countrj'sidc lo its glorious autumn colors has changed the thoughts of our members to the 
Southern Cook County; 
plans for a bigger and better Christmas supper JIM ARMSTRONG was prindpal speaker at dance to be held in Madison in the early part the Southern Cook County meeting where a presen­
of December. 
tation of a scholarship check v.-as made to Jim 
JOHN E. TOBIN'S personal efforts as a com­for the Uni\xr3ity. Thb u-as the result of the mittee member contributed to the success of the cIuf>-5pon30rctl dance which was chairmanned by financing of the GUS DORAIS Memorial in the BOB CAFARELLA last April. TOM O'GRADY Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame at Milwaukee served as ticket chairman and BENNY DAMIANI Arena. was chairman of arrangements for the dance. 
PHILADELPHIA—^Tom Dempsey (second from right) was named Man of the Year at the alumni club's annual UND Night observance. Others in the photo are (left to right): Club President William Bums; Father Hope, guest spcalter; and John Moorhcad, General Chairman. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 
NORTH FLORIDA—-The club's second annual Friendly Foes Smoker was held on Sept. 6 in Jacksonville. Joe Hartzer was chairman. 
Year DICK MUCKEIOLWs* and DAVE MAX a re­to be our feature attraction for tliis night. All 
South Jersey 
cent graduate. Dave left shortly after the luncheon past presidents, present board members and other to go to Texas where he entered the Seminary to be­members of the club who arc prominent in civic 
The annual family outing was held on July 8 gin his studis for the priestJiood. Chairman BOB and religious afTairs here in St. Louis have been at Saginaw Lodge. TTiis was ihe first fJub picnic TORRANCE had as his committee for this luncli­placed on this committee to help promote the night. 

in sex'cral years and turned out to be a very eon, JOE BAUER, BILL RUOFF, DAVE MAX The St. Louis Club of Notre Dame will have its successful affair. The 1947 Highlights were shown and LLOYD AUBREY. Student club president first annual retreat at the new Our Lady of at a recent club meeting held at Kcnney's Res­MATT WEIS, JR. was the student representative on Fatima retreat house on the campus of the Uni­taurant on, September 27. 
tilts activity. versity the weekend of May 11 and 12, 1957. Our scholarship fund football trip this year will We believe we are the first club to organize a be to tlie Michigan State game. GEORGE CONVTT, retreat at the new house on campus. JOHN SUL-
St. Joseph Valley 
JACK GRIFFIN and JOE GOLABOWSKI arc LIV^AN is chairman for this aJTair and will have Under the general chairmanship of COY Mc­
working hard to try to make this trip a complete VINCENT FEHLIG and FR.\NK POLLNOW as GEEf the St. Joseph Vallej- Club again sponsored a 
sellout. his committee. series of Quarterback Club luncheons this fall. On November 15, •we •*rill have our Fall meeting .MI alumni who may be in the St. Louis area are Open to alumni and other friends the meetings arc at the Anhcuscr-Busch Ratliskeller. Commerce reminded that the club has a monthly luncheon sdieduled for the 01i\-cr Hotel on Oct. 8, Oct. scliool dean JAMES W. CULLITON will be our the second Monday of each month at the Kcv 
15, Oct. 22, Nov. 5 and .N*ov. 26. COACH TERRY guest. AVhilc Dean Culliton is in town he will Club at the Sheraton-Jefferson Hotel. JIM WALSH BRENNAN was the principal speaker at the initial make speaking engagements before the St. Louis and- his committee of HANK DAHM and GENE lunclieon. PAUL NEVILLE was in charge of ticket Chamber of Commerce, The Mortgage Bankers FEHLIG handle the arrangements for these fine distribution. Proceeds go to the club's scliolarship .-Vssociation and bcforo a group of high school lunclicons. fund. seniors from alt the local Catholic high schools. This year the club has called on some 137 cliib 
DON FISHER has been named general chair­

Tlic officers of the club arc grateful to the Dean members to ser\"e on committees or work on an man of the Annual Civic Testimonial Football for pcrmining us to arrange these engagements as activity of the club. The officers feel with so many Banquet, by President WILLIAM GIBBONS, whicli his appearance before these groups -will do much men active our club's activities will be most suc­is one of the club's yearly highlight events. toward creating interest in Notre Dame and in the ' cessful. 
Foundation. Details for this meeting will be —JOHN F. HIGGINS, JR., Sec>. handled bv BEN GERKER and his committee of 
BILL GEORGE and DR. BILL GILLESPIE. FATHER HESBURGH will be our guest at our 
St. Louis 
Tlic Xonvood Hills Country- Club was the site Tallahassee 
annual Family Communion Breakfast on December 
uf the St. Louts Club's golf tournament held on 
9. Once again we will attend mass at the Church 
din 

August 14. Trophies for low scores were av\-arded The Tallaliossee Almnni Club held dinner 
of the Immaculata and we will have our breakfast 
to MEL WILKE and to PAUL FEHLIG. JOHNNY meeting on .Aug. 9 as its final activity of tht I ^^ 
at the Sclineithorst restaurant. BOB SURKAMP 
JORDAN honored us with his presence but due. to' Summer season. 
\nll be in cliarge of this breakfast and will have 
radio and television appearances he 'i\'as only able Although attendance was held down because 
as his committee JOHN HAFF and TOM HEN-
to play nine holes. After the day of golf a cock­NIGAN. many of llie members were out of town on vacation DEWEY GODFREY and his committee of BOB 
tail party and dinner was enjoyed by thirty-five the members enjoyed the get together with special alumni and friends. Coach Jordan told us of the entertainment furnished by the .Mumni oflice in 
HO\'NCK and PHIL HIGGINS have completed 
prospects for the athletic teams at school this year the form of the filmed highlights of the 1955 Notre 
the arrangements for our annual Christmas dance. 
along with many other interesting bits of news Dame football season. 
The dance will be held on December 28, in the 
about tlic University. LOU FEHLIG did an ex­PAT HALEY, '55, received congratulations from 
Gold room of the Sheraton-JcfTcrson Hotel. This alumni-student dance has become one of our most 
cellent job of arranging this golf day. club members for being named to Phi Kappa Phi, popular affairs and because of this fact we are 
On September 6, the Freshman lunclieon was national scholastic honorar>' fraternity at Florida held at the Coronado Hotel. Thirty-Iwo new State University Iierc where he received hts Mas­
ha\-ing it this year in a much larger ballroom. 
freshmen entered Notre Dame tliis fall from the ter's degree in Geologj* on Aug. 11. 
Our spring meeting on starch 4, 1957 will be 
St. Louis Club area. As in tlie past the new The business portion of the meeting was devoted 
held at the University Club. Football Coach ­
students, their fathers and the undergraduates to drawing up plans for next year's activities here 
TERRY BRENNAN will be our guest and speaker. 
were the guests of the Club. There were 86 in and a report of the activities of last year. Last 
PAT O'MEARA will be ctiairman for this meeting. 
attendance at this luncheon. FATHER GLENN year the club held two dinner meetings, a family 
DICK SAYERS and JIM JENNEWEIN will com­
BO.ARMAN, C.S.C., was our guest speaker from style beach picnic for the Notre Dame baseball the University. Due to a delay in plane connec­team; a Universal Notre Dame Night banquet; 
prise his committee. 
tions Father Boarman missed the meal but did CHARLES FARRIS will be chairman of this a cocktail party for visiting Alumni Secretary JI^I 
make it in time to give his talk to the new stu­vear's Universal Notre Dame night. DICK MUCK-ARMSTRONG and Mrs. Armstrong; a cocktail dents and their fathers. Words of adnce and ERMAN and ROLLIE DAMES vvill be the pnn-party for visiting Coacli TERRY BRENNAN and encouragement were given to the Notre Dame men cipal members of his committee. The club hopes the final August dinner meeting. by Club President DON DOHEN^Y, Man of the to obtain another speaker of national importance Attending the final meeting were: ^Ir. and ^Irs. 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Nov.-Dec.^ 1956 
THOMAS J. Ci\RROLL, JUDGE JOHN P. ^lACK, ED MUELLER, JACK .MURPHY, FATHER GERALD WEINHEIMER, assistant pas­
tor of Blessed Sacrament Church; WIB MAR­SHALL, PAT HALEY, and Mr. and .Mrs. ..VN­THONY J. DUYER. 
—JACK .MURPHY, '30 

Terre Haute 
The Notre Dame Club of Terre Haute held their annual Family picnic in August at Dcming Park. 
^AU L MARIETTA, PETE VARDA, JR. and MY-
BnON BUSBY were in cliargc of arrangements for tile picnic. The picnic was a big success. 
President FRED CHRISTMAN has called a Club meeting for Oclober to set up fall and winter programs. 
—JI.M BOYER, Scc%-. 

Top of Michigan 
.\ highly successful meeting was held at Ed Mo­

jjoney's Bradner Lodge and refreshments were en­
joye d by a group of fifteen, including five students who arc entering Notre Dame. After a pleasant social session, the Top of Michigan Notre Dame Club was formally formed and with the thought in mind of starting an organization that would gather in the Alumni of surrounding, counties in the future. 
The election of officers was held. ED ^tOLONEY was named president; BOB NALETTE, coach of the Cheboygan Catholic School system, was elected vice-president, EL.MO FUNK, a MuUett Lake cot­tager of several years and banker of Anderson, 
^nd. , and distributor of Coca Cola in that terri­
"or>' was elected 1st vice-president; and JOHN CAIN, secretary and treasurer. GIL SCHAEFER, who is vacadonJng at Mullett Lake Village and who is president of Gil Schaefer Marine Corporation, distributor of Mcrcur>- out­board motors, boats and all types of general marine equipment, spoke to the group. He is president of Walker Motors, Ford dtstributours of Detroit. Mr. Scliacfer was the host at a delightful dinner, served in the Topinabec Room of Hotel Topina­bee. Short talks were given by Mr. Sttllman, Mr. Schaefer, Mr. Funk, Bob Nalette and John Cain. The meeting was closed with the group singing 
^>f Notre Dame songs. Plans were tentatively set up for a social gath­ering of the returning young men at Christmas, to be held in Bradner Lodge and other meetings shall be called by President Moloney, to further strengthen the organization by members in the Top of Michigan territory. 
Tri-Cities 
August 3d the Notre Dame /Vlumni Club of the 

Tri-Cilics held its .-Vnnual Fish Fry (stag). Many 
^u-icnds of the University as well as students and 
Alumni spent an enjo>-abIc evening at Little's Grove. 
September 30th the Notre Dame Wives' Club prepared a steak fry (corn-fed Iowa beef, no doubt) for the hard-working husbands at the Davenport Countr>' Club. 
The big event for the Tri-City club will be on November 23d, the evening before the ND-Iou-a game. A dance is planned at tlie Blackhawk Hotel, Davenport, Iowa, to which all the ND celebrities, sports writers and radio-TV sports announcers will be invited. Everv'onc is welcome to come to this affair, eipecially the oul-of-towners who arc trav­eling to the game. 
Tile club will also have two rail coaches re­scr\'cd for the trip to Iowa City on the 24th and here again cverv'one is welcome to join the group on the trip. 
—a\R L A. LIEBSCHER, Secy. 

Tulsa 
In September present students at Notre Dame were special guests at the Club's Communion Breakfast. Total attendance was well over 50, marking this exent as one of our most successful breakfast meetings. 
About 60 members rode chartered buses to Dal­las for the S-M.U. game. While the outcome of tlie game \\*as shocking, the overnight trip was lots of fun. 
The Club is conducting a special ralHe. Prizes will be three all expense trips for three couples to a game, and the profits resulting from this raffic will also go to the scholarship fund. Currently eight boys are attending Notre Dame through scliolarships provided by the Club. 
Tile following events have been scheduled over the next few montlis. October 22—Closed circuit tele­vision of the Michigan Slale-N.D. game. Novem­ber 18—Communion Sunday and Breakfast. De­cember 8-9—Club's first Retreat at Grand Lake, Oklahoma. December 27—Annual Christmas Dance at the Cimarron Ballroom, Tulsa. Januar>* 29, 1957—Annual stag dinner and business meeting. April 29, 1957—Unixersal Notre Dame Night Ban­quet at Tulsa Club. Speakers: MOST REVER­END E. J. .McGUINNESS and REV. EDMUND JOYCE, CS.C. 
—BOB MANMX, Sec>-. 

Washington, D. C. 
In July, the Club had a golf outing at the Kenwood Country Club. JACK LETHBRIDGE was chairman of the outing, and DR. GEORGE GREEN was the dinner chairman and toastmastcr. 
J. HAL RODDY, with a 75, %von the Club Cham­pionship, represented by a new trophy donated by BOB DE ORSEY and his partner in the insurance business. RAY DU FOUR. Bob Dc Orscy and WALTER MURPHY tied for second, with 78'$. 
August was highlighted for the local alumnt by the family picnic. ED FENLON was chairman of this affair, and his ciTorts were rewarded by one of the finest turnouts ever had for this activity. The day was highlighted by races and contests for the children, presided over by JOHN BRADDOCK; and a suftball game for the alumni. 
On September II, the Club had a luncheon at the Touchdown Club for the new freshmen and their fathers. CLIFF LETCHER u-as chairman and toastmaster. The 13 or 14 freshmen and their fatheri heard REVEREND VINCENT MacCAU-LEY, CS.C , Director of Holy Cross Missions, and DR. iUT T SULLIVAN, the Club president, discuss the advantages and aims of Notre Dame. 
This Fall, the Club has planned a rally at the Sheraton-Park Hotel for the Notre Dame-Navy game, and a smoker in honor of JOE KUHARICH, and the other Notre Dame men on the Redskins' team. 
—WALTER J. MURPHY, JR., Secy. 

West Virginia 
The annual family picnic was held in .August. Tlie group included 33 members, wives, and guests, and 35 children. Two students ^vho \verc employed locally during the summer were guests at the picnic: CONRAD CONWAY, '57, employed at Carbide & Carbon; JIM CASEY, '59 employed at Appalachian Electric JOSEPH RICH, '58, summer employee at Carbide & Carbon, was not able to attend. 
Local chemists and engineers enjoyed \*isitins with Prof. RONALD RICH, *28, head of the Chemical Engineering Department, during his re­cent visit. Mr. W. H. Billings - of Carbide S: Carbon entertained Mr. Rich and a group of his former students with a dinner. 
The Alumnt Club of West Virginia welcomes the following new members: TOM KENNEL, '56, of Lostant, 111., employed at Carbide & Carbon. BOB SCALISE, '56, of Becklcy, W. Va., cm-ployed at Goodrich Gulf. WEBSTER J. ARCENEAUX, Jr., '5t, of MobUe. Ala., employed at Carbide & Carbon. —LAWRENCE G. HESS, '38, Secy, 
Western Washington 
The Western Washington Club's annual simimer get-together for member?, wives, children and other guests was held on July 28 at JIAI KEL-LEHER's home. Jim also scr\-ed as chairman of the affair. 
Wichita 
The Wichita group met for Corporate Com­munion, Sunday, September 9th and invited all present students, including incoming freshmen, to be guests at the breakfast following the Mass. Seven freshmen, a record from this area, were present. Of the seven, ' three are the sons of Notre Dame alumni and a fourth is a nephew of one. Time marches on. 
The officers of the club, elected in May, arc DR. BERNARD CROWXEY, presidcntj ED Mc KENNA, \nce-presldent; GEORGE SCHWARZ, secretary-treasurer; AL GEBERT, FRANK FURST­ENBURG and DR. WILLIAM CALL.4HAN, di-
HAWAII—^Alumni and friends honored returning students and Dr. Thomas Dooley, author of the best seller, "Deliver Us From Evil," at a dinner in Honolulu. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov,-Dec., 1956 
Engagements 

Miss Man- Agnes Kasdorf and DR. FR:\XCIS M SELLERS '42. Miss Doroiiiy Marie Troy and RONALD E. ZrER, '52. Miss Vivian Lucille Phillips and VICTOR CHACHO, '50. Miss Marcia Joan Porter and THO-NHS E. SHERER, '50. .Miss Jovce .M. Cosgrove and GEORGE J. DO­LAK III, '54. Miss Patricia McVndrcws and RICHARD C. PILGER, Jr., '54. Miss Lcnorc Anne Salkind and DONALD J. ROBINSON, '55. 
Marriages 

-Miss Lois Traegar and MICHAEL WELNBERG, '47, Yonkers, N. Y., June 9. Miss Dolores Catlverinc Fisdier and GEORGE 
N. LESER, '49, Eau Claire, Wis., August 4. Miss Kathleen M. Drake and WILLLVM W. ROGERS, JR., '50, London, England, September I. MLss Laura Jane Doyle and ED.MUND J. BURKE, '51, Chicago, 111., August 4. Miss Jane Stuart Fl>-nn and THOMAS W. CAR­ROLL, '51, Chicago, 111., June 30. Miss Nancy Elizabeth Driscoll and JOHN A. HALEY, JR., '51, Minneapolis, Minn., September 1. Miss Dorothy E. Dubes and WILLIAM G. KLEE, '51, Columbus, Ohio, June 30. 
Miss Margaret P. Delaney and MATTHEW B. O'DONNELL, JR., "51, Sv-racuse, N. Y., Novem­ber 14, 1955. 
Miss Mar>- Margaret Blank and DR. WILLIAM 

J. COAKER, '52, Notre Dame, Ind., June 16. Miss Mary Ellen D»-yer and ANDREW J. FOX, JR., '52, Manhasset, L.I., N. Y., April 7. Miss Barbara Beardall and CHARLES G, REYN­OLDS, '52, Brooklyn, N. Y., June 23. Miss Mar>- Katharine X'uncs and THOMAS E. BAKER, '53, Nnvport, R. L, June 30. Miss Ann Catherine Haskins and ROBERT J. KELLY, '53, LaSalle, III., June 16. Miss Claudettc Ferrini and LEONARD J. Le-ROSE, '53, Chicago, III., July 21. Miss Sylvia Joanne Schneider and EDGAR E. MEUNIER, '53, Fargo, No. Dak., July 14. Miss Dorothy Ann Mahowald and JOHN T. MULVIHILL, '53, South Bend, Ind., June 16. Miss Barbara Goulson and WEBSTER J. ARCEN­EAUX, JR., '54, Mobile, Ala., September 3, 1955. Miss Marta Keil and MICHAEL J. MAHONEY, '54, Riverside, Calif., August 22. 
^G5S Antonia Marie Sdiildge and CHRISTO­PHER E. MALONE, JR., '54, New MonmouUi, 
N. J., July 6. Miss Mar>- Carol Miles and RICH.\RD A. MOR.4N, '54, South Bend, Ind., June 30. Miss Sandra Ann Calloway and ARTHUR L. PASKALIS, '54, Notre Dame, Ind., June 5. Miss Carol Ann Wiseman and JOHN J. SMITH, '54, Cincinnati, Ohio, July 21. Miss Dolores Szalay and JAMES H. VOSS, '54, 
South Bend, Ind., June 30. Miss Margaret Ann Sdmeider and RICHARD 
E. ALFES, '55, Lansing, Mich., July 21. Miss Dorothy Alberter and LAWRENCE J. BREHL, '55, Pittsburgh, Pa., August 11. Miss Maureen Anne O'llara and E. JAMES CLARK, JR., '55, Schenectady, N. Y., May 19. Miss Patricia Joan Gundeck and LT. NOEL KINDT, '53, Mishavvaka, Ind., June 23. 
Miss Barbara Bomcmann and THOMf\S L. PRENDERGAST, JR., '55, Chippcw-a Falls, Wis., June 16. 
Miss Patricia Light and JA.MES E. BALDINGER, '56, South Bend, Ind., August 4. . Miss Constance Custer and EDWARD F. BAR­RETT III, '56, Notre Dame, Ind., June 9. Miss Sandra Kathcrine Stettaucr and WILLIAM 
J. BONDE, '56, Notre Dame, Ind., September 8. Miss Joanne Agatha Wilhelm and DAVID S. BRUCKER, '56, South Bend, Ind., June 23. 
Miss Roxana ifae Ellis and LEON C. GRIW­ERT, '56, South Bend, Ind., June 23. 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 
v^ ^-\ 1. 

Miss Phyllis Mae Abbott and DEAN F. DAVIS, 
•5G. South Bend, Ind., June 30. Miss Corrine Pauline Wamscr and JOHN R. DONNELLY, '56. Notre Dame, Ind., June 4. 
Miss Shirlc%- Helen Wilcox and JOSEPH W. HENNESSV, JR., '56, Binghamton, N. Y., June 16. 
Miss Elsie .Vnn Regard and P.4UL T. Nfi'ERS, '56, Notre Dame, Ind., August II. Miss Chenl Ann Shay and GERARD A. POT­TEBAU.M, '56, Eningham, 111., August 7. Miss Rita Patricia Spaulding and PAUL C. QUINN, '56, Notre Dame, Ind., August 4. Miss Jacqueline Reulcr and GEORGE VAN BEISEN, '56, Xeu-ton Centre, Mass., August 25. Miss CaroK-n Mac Mahler and RICHARD J. V^VN MELE, '56, South Bend, Ind. Miss Mars- Louise Young -and RICHARD J. YEAGER, '5G. Notre Dame, Ind., June 30. 
Births 

Dr. and Mrs. F. E. SCHLUETER, '33, a daugh­ter, Franccsca Estelle, September 6. Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK J. FISHER, '36, a daughter. Mr. and Mrs. ALBERT J. SCHWARTZ, '37, a daughter, Mary Eleanor, August 19. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH HARRINGTON, '39, a daughter. Sheila Atme, September 2. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES S. REDDV, '39, twin daughters, Patricia and Kathleen, July 6. Mr. and -Mrs. C. M. REICH, '39, a daughter, Dorothv Anne, September 5. -Mr. and .Mrs. JA.MES E. FOLEY, '40, a son. Fredrick Albert, September 18. Mr. and Mrs. NORBERT F. HENEBRY, '40. a daughter, Kathleen, Julv 23. -Mr. and Mrs. CYRIL T. GARN'EY, '41, a son. Hugh Joseph, August 12. Mr. and Mrs. FRANK E. O'DOWD, '42, a son. Gerald Maddock, August 10. Dr. and Mrs. FRED CANS, '43, a son, Fred, Jr.. September 25. -Mr. and Jfrs. M7LBUR F. DOLL, '44, a daugh. tcr, Mar^* Elizabeth, August 15. -Mr. and Mrs. J. THOMAS O'REILLY, '44, a son, Thomas Patrick, July 13. .Mr. and Mrs. R. JERRY McCARTY, '45, a girl, Becky Eileen, June 5. Mr. and ^Irs. JOHN M. HENRY, '47, a son. William Aloysius, August 9. Mr. and Mrs. WALLACE J. ANDREWS, '48. a son, James Edward, August 27. -Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN A. BREHL, '48, a son. WilKam, July 27. Mr. and Mrs. ORVILLE E. DUNN, JR., '48, a son, William Robert, August 16. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS J. BYRNE, JR., '49. a son, Tliomas Mitcliell, August 19. Mr. and Mrs. J. PATRICK DOYLE, '49. a daughter, August 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. R.\LPH L. FENDERSON, JR., *49, twin daughters, Judith Marie and Joyce Lydia, July 13. 
-Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS M. KUPFER, '49, a daughter, Barbara Jean, June 6. Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE C. BIITTNER, '30, a daughter, Margaret Mary, July 18. Dr. and Mrs. JEROME R. BONA, '30, a son, .May, 1936. Mr. and Mrs. J. M. FALLON, '50, a son. Jo. seph Michael. Jr., June 24. 
.Mr. and -Mrs. EDNIOND I. FOLEY, JR., '50, triplets, Timothy Patrick, Kathleen Margaret and Mar\- Alice, .\ugust 9, 
Dr. and Mrs. JA.MES McMEEL, JR., '50, a daughter, June 10. -Mr. and -Mrs. DONALD F. WOLFE, '50, a .«on, June 7. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER F. ZENNER, '50, a daughter, Marv- Tlieresc Carmel, Julv 9. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES A. CARRIG, '51, a son, Christopher Charles, June 8. Mr. and Mrs. JA.MES S. DOYLE, '51, a son, Peter Delanev, August 25. Mr. and Mrs. J. ROBERT WILDEMAN, '51, a daughter, Beverly Ann, September 24. -Mr. and -Mrs. GEORGE HEIMEL, '52, a soa, July 14. 
-Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN F. .ME,\NEY, '52. a son. John Francis, June 15. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. ROSS, '52. a MUI.( John Kevin, Mav 18. -Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN J. SCHICKEL, '52. a son, Stephen John, August 14. Dr. and -Mrs. F. R. SCHLICHTING, '52. a daughter, Clare Francis, August 17. .Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN J. CON'NELLY, '33, a son, Tliomas Joseph, June 5. -Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN F. GELSON, '53. a daugh­ter, Elizabeth Marie, May 27. Lt. and ilrs. JOHN B. LUX, '53, a son, Thomas Edward, August 6. Mr. and .Mrs. LAWRENCE D. PRIDMORE,^ JR., '53, a daughter, Ann Tlierese, June 29. .Mr. and Mrs. J..V.MES E. BINCKLEY, '34. a daughter, Mary- Thercse, Mav 29. -Mr. and .Mrs. JA.MES .Vi. CORCOR.A.V, JR., '54, a daughter, Mar^• Carol, June 27. .Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH G. D'ANTONI, -54. a daughter, Laura Ann, August 6. Mr. and .Mrs. JOSEPH G. DIPINTO, '54, a daughter, Mary Xiim, September 20. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM R. HARTNAGEL, '54, a son. Thomas Keith, February 16. y­-Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. NORTON, '54, a son.'. September 8. Lt. and Mrs. WALTER CABR-AL, '35, a son. June 16. Lt. and Mrs. JOHN W. HOUCK, '33. a son. Christopher Jude, September 3. Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN J. PREVOZNIK, '55. a daughter, Mar>- Therese, August 6. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH P. SITEK, '32, a daugh­ter, Ex-a Anne, September 24, 1955. -Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. HOYT, -37. a daughter, .\nn, July 7. -Mr. and .Mrs. W1LLIA.M P. .MAHONEY, '39, a, son. ' -Mr. and Mrs. WILLI.-VM D. O'TOOLE, '39. a son, Kevin William. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE SARB, '48, a d.augliter. September 30. 
Sympathy 

DONNELLY P. .McDONALD, SR., Ti. <m the deatli of his wife, September 24. GEORGE H. SLAINE, '21, on the death of his brother, JOSEPH, '24, May 20. PAUL C. RO.MWEBER, '25, on the death of his , father. GEORGE COURY, '28, on the death of his father. W1LLIA.M B. JONES, '28, on the death of his mother, July 8. GEORGE A. BRAUTIGAM, '29, on the death of his father. August, 1956. JAMES T. DOYLE, '31, and WILLIA.M E. DOYLE, '34, on the death of their mother, July 22. 
LOUIS YAEGER, '35, and WILLIAM YAEGER, '42, on the death of their brother. JOHN E. YAEGER, '40. June 30. 
ROBERT F. COOK, '36, on tlie death of hisT wife, Jean. ~' AN-THONY F. EARLEY, JR., '47. on the death of his father, August 3. ROBERT FLANNERY, '48, on the death of his mother. H7LLIA.M C. HERBER, '48, on (he death of his wife, July 24. THO.MAS J. BYRNE, JR., '49. on the death of his mother, August 5. 
WALTER L., '35, ROBERT A., '49, OWEN P., '50, and WILLIA.M H. LAYDEN, -jl, on the deatjt of their father who was killed in an auto-.—^ mobile accident last August. 'U 
RICHARD J. YE.AGER, '56. on the death of his fathtr September 20. 
FRANK G. PRANTIL, '59, on the death of his sister, Christine, 7, in an automobile accident near Prescott, Ariz., in July. 
EDMUND A. SMITH, Assistant Dean of the College of Commerce at Notre Dame, on the death of his mother, September 24. 
Deaths 

OITO A. ROTHER-T, '92, Louisville, Ky., died recently according to information received in the Alumni Ofhce. 
LEIGH F. GIBSON, '94, died on May 30. Mr. Gibson is survived by his wife. FREDERICK W. SCHULTE, '98, died March 
16. He is survived by his wife who resides at I842I Yorba Linda Blvd., Yorba Linda, CaliL 
EDWARD P. CARVILLE, '09, former governor of Xev-ada, died in Reno on June 27 after several months' illness. A iigure in politics for all but a 
•J 

lew years of his active life, Mr. Car\illc served 
,Ais a county district attorney, district judge. United ^States district attorney, governor and U. S. sena­tor and was one of Xe\-3da*s leading la^v>*crs for many years. He was a member of the Reno Rotar>- Club, the EIlcs, the Knights of Columbus, the Scrra Club and Modern Woodmen of America. Mr. Carx'ille is survived by his wife, the former Inna M. Callahatt of South Bend, one son and seven grandchildren. 
REV. ANTHONY J. ROZEWICZ, C.S.C., Ul, died on June 13. At the time of his deatii, Father 
, ^Rozewicz was stationed at Holy Trinit>- Church 
'^ n Chicago. 
WILLARD H. CHESTER, '14, prominent Elk­hart, Ind., attorney, died June 2+ of a heart at­tack. Mr. Chester was a member of the Elks, the American Legion, Tyrian Lodge, Congrega­tional Church and Elkhart Knights Templar. He is survived by his wife, three sons, a daughter and eleven grandchildren. 
REV. FRANCIS B. REMMES, ^5 , died recently according to information received in the Alumni Office. 
:0 PAUL V. DUFFY, '17, an editor of "Tavern Talk" for 35 years, died August 29 at the Kansa.s City Veterans Hospital ^vhe^c he had been a patient for a year. Mr. Duffy was a member of the Holy Name Society, the Hotel Grecters of .\mcrica, the Kansas City Stewxu-ds, Chefs and Caterers /Vssociation, the American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars. Sur\'iWng are a sister and two brothers. 
FRANCIS E. MULLIGx\N. '19, Brooklyn, N. Y., died August 11. While at T^otre Dame, Mr. Mul­ligan was a member of the track team. He is 
•sur\'ived by his wife, one daughter, five grand­children and one sister. WILLIAM E. FOLEY, '21, died February 7. He is survived by his wife. GEORGE P. HENEGHAN, '22, South Bend, 
. Ind., died July 26 after two months* illness. Mr. Heneghan, a cini engineer, was a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers, The Fraternal Order of Eagles, the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame Club and St. Joseph's Catholic Church. Survivors include his wife, one son, two sisters and a brother. LEO C. GRAF, '23, died September 21. Sur­
^vivors include his widow who resides at 4237 Bush­
"ncll Road, University Heights, Ohio. 
DANIEL J. LAMONT, '24, Chicago, 111., died June 23. Mr. Lamont, a partner in the law firm of Lamont and Gary in Chicago, formerly was football coach and athletic director at Loyola Uni­versity. He also coached at the University of Washington in Seattio and St. Rita and St. George High Schools in Chicago, He is survived by his wife, three daughters and five sons. 
JOSEPH B. SUVINE, *24, Jacksonville, Florida, died May 20. .^t the time of his death, Mr. Slaine was employed as an auditor for the Family 
^Finance Corporation of Dclaivare. He is survived by his wife, a son, a daughter, two brotliers and five sisters. 
.\L\NSIEL G. HAGERTY, '26, a lawjcr who gave up his practice to lobby across the nation for legislation against capital punishment, died .\ugust 26 in St. Luke's Hospital in Chicago. He was admitted to the liospital two weeks before his death when he arrived in Cliicago as secretary of the Cincinnati, O., Lauscho for President Club. Mr. Hagerty has been living recently in Cincinnati. He is survived by his widow, two sons, two daugh­
ters , fourteen grandchildren, five sisters and two 
•brothers. 
SISTER M. VICTOR DRUEDING, '2fi, died recently. SISTER M. FRxVNCELIA MURRAY, '27, died in May. 
JOHN H. HART^', '27, Chicago, III., died in July according to information received in the Alumni Office. 
VINCENT P. DUCEY, '28, died in Sacramento, -Calif., on July 28. 
^ DR. FRANCIS J. GANNON, '3!, well-known Cleveland, Ohio, physician, died July 9 in his home following an illness of several months. Dr. Gannon was a member of the Cleveland Academy of Medicine, the American Medical Association, the Catholic Physicians and Dentists Guild and the Phi Chi medical fraternity. He was a former president of the Clc%'cland Notre Dame Alumni Club and was a member of tlic St. Louis Club and the Knights of Columbus. Dr. Gannon is survived by his wife, five sons, a daughter, a brother and four sisters. 
NORBERT J. CHRISTMAN, '32, Green Bay, Wis., died August 18 of a heart attack he suffered while playing in the Oneida Golf and Riding Club's Calcutta Tournament. Mr. Christman played var­sity football at Notre Dame and was a member of the undefeated national collegiate championship teams of 1929 and 1930. After graduation, Mr. Christman coached the Notre Dame freshman back­ficld for one year, then directed Christian Brothers Prep School in Memphis, Tenn., for a year. From 1945 through 1947 he was head coach at Central CathoVic High School in Green Bay. Mr, Christ-man was named "Man cf the Year" by the Green Bay Notre Dame Club in 1954. He was also a member of the. Elks Club, the Knights of Columbus and the Holy Name Society. Survivors include his wife, a son, four daughters, lu-o brothers and four sisters. 
ROBERT J. HANLEY» JR., '34, vice-president of Mystik Tape Distributors, Inc., died July 20 In St. Francis Hospital, Evanston, III. He is survived by his widow, two daughters, his mother and a sister. 
FRANCIS E. McGUIRE, '35, died of a heart attack at his home in Wilmettc, HI., on July 26. Mr, AIcGuire vvas employed as Chief Counselor of the Market Center Quartermaster Corps, Chicago. He is survived by his widow and one son. 
JOHN D. SIMON, '38, a South Bend business executive, died September 15 of a fractured neck ho Suffered in a swimming accident in Birch Lake near Vandalla, Mich. Mr. Simon was a vice-president and member of the board of directors of the Bermingham-Prosser Company of Kalamazoo, Midi,, and manager of Its South Bend district. He was a member of St. Matthews Catholic Church and St. Matthews Ushers' Club and a veteran of World ^Var II. Survivors include his widow, three sons, two daughters, his father, four sisters and a brother. 
FRANCIS W\ BIAGI, '40, St. Paul, Minnesota, died in August after an extended Illness, He was a former varsity football player. 
JOHN E. YAEGER, '40, a member of the qual­ity control staff of the Yorkvillc Works of ^Vheeling 
(W. Va.) Steel Corporation, was lulled In the collision of a TWA and United Airlines plane In the Grand Canyon on June 30. A veteran of ^VorId War II, Mr. Yaeger vvas recipient of the Bronze Star. Survivors include his wife, six chil­dren, his parents, a sister, and two brothers, LOUIS, '35, and ^VILLIAM. '42. 
SISTER M. BERNILDI5 ROGGENBURK, 

S.N.D., '44, died recently. 

NOEL H^ GOTTESMAN, '47, of Huntiogtoo Woods, 31ich., was killed In the a^Usioa oC a TWA and United Airlines plane in the Grand Can>'oa on June 30. Mr. Gottesnian Is survived fay his wife and several children. 
JOHN J. KLOCKE, '49, died June 18 la Park Ridge, III, He is sur\ived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. John Klocke, 823 South Chester^ Park Ridge, III. 
DONALD MACDONNELL, '49, died August 20 In Mt. Cannel Hospital, Detroit where bo had been hospitalized for several months with leukemia. Mr. ^facdonnell served in the Navy air coxps dur­ing World War II and joined the Ford jhiuiur Company after his discharge. Survivors include his wife, three sons, a daughter and his parents. 
JOSEPH J. STANISH, '51, Indianapolis, Ind., died February 13 according to information just received in the Alumni Office 
1904 
HARRY HOGAN, of Ft. Wayne, Ind., former president of the Notre Dame Alumni Assodation and National Chairman of the Notre Dame Foun­dation, recently paid a visit to the birthplace of Knutc Rockne In Voss, Norway. Mrs. Hogan accompanied Harry on the tour. 
1907 
%JL 
\\inc 

1911 ^"^ ^ ^t"^ 
" " 105 S. laSalle St Chicago 3, Illinois 
Albert A. Kotte (right), '06, received his 30-year class reunion medal from Michael Zoro­vich, president o£ the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami. Mr. Kotte was imable to attend the reimion weekend on campus in June because of illness. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 35 
of the Clais of 1913 IiKik back with affection and 
cratitude to REV. \VILLL\M A. BOLGER and to REV. .M.-MTHEW WALSH and other great tcacli­ers of our era in ^^•hosc classes George received inspiration and guidance that were later to develop into the scholarship and the intellectual courage to face dilliciilt issues that has cliaracterized his leadership among Catholic educators and authors. 
1912 
1916 *^^o^'cr F. Miller 612 Wisconsin Avenue Racine, Wisconsin 
TIM GALVIX is a lawyer, a member of the Xotrc Dame Board of Lay Tnislecs and his oldest son will be a sophomore at Notre Dame during the current school year. Titn also has another son and one dauchter. 

1913 ^^"^ ^* ^y"*^ F.VTHER VLNCE MOOXEY is pastor of Immacu­late Conception Church, Kenton, Ohio, in the 
Box 45 
diocese of Columbus. 
Notre DaiiiC; Indiana 
BERT KE^\TIXG, who is district attorney in Denver, Colorado, was back to the campus this past 
191 4 ^°^ O'Neill 

June for the first time in forty years. " ' ^ 1350 No. Black Oak Drive 
A recent letter from C. I. (aVSEY) KRAJEWSKI South Bend 17, Indiana states that they have four cltildrcn, two hoys and two girls. Ml arc married except one who is 1915 J^nics £. Sanford engaged and Casey saN-s thc>' expect to lose him in November. Tbb son graduated from Notre Dame 
• ' • "* 1429 ^V. Farragut Avenue 
in 1950. Casey Is an architectural engineer and 
Chicago 40, Illinois 
specializes in Catholic institutions, schools and churches. 
EDMOXD I. FOLEY, '50, son of our clasi­iiiate EDMOX I., is tlic proud fatlier of triplets, 

REGIS FALLON became a grandfather twice Timothy Patrick, Kathleen Margaret and ^Iar\' 
this year when both his daughter and his son had Alice, bom to Mrs. Roseinarv' Foley his 29-year-old 
m*w lM»ys. wife, on Thursday, August 9. This happy c\"cnt brings the number of children to six, three boys 
1917 Eduard J. McOsker 
and three girls. Congratulations of the Class of '15 are extended to both generations of the family. 

2205 Briarwood Road Father ^^endcz presided at ibc christening. Ed Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio Sr.'s daughter Carole Anne entered the Dominican Order on September 6 at Adrian, Mich. RAY J. KELLY, of Detroit, Mich., who has ser\-cd as chairman of the Railroad Retirement Itoard with oflices in Chicago, has received a new 
fieunion
assigmncat from President EiseJihowcr. He has been appointed Judge of the U. S. District Court at Juneau, Alaska. Mrs. Kelly accompanied him 
June i 
there and we arc sure he will be happy to hear from classmates. If the reception of DR. GEORGE X. SHUSTER'S latest book '"In Silence I Speak" by Chicago review­
iHrnPlilli 
ers is an indication of its reception throughout ;\merica, the publishers Farrar, Straus and Cudahy should find it running into several editions. We 

NEW JERSEY—Participants in the club's Freshmen Welcome party included (left to right): 
Robert Joyce, president; William Waldron, chairman; and Coach Hughie Devore 
of the Philadelphia Eagles. George E. Harbert 
1918 
500 Rock Island Bank Bldg. 
Rock Island, Illinois 
Theodore C. Rademaker 
1919 
Peru Foundry Company Peru, Indiana 
1 92 0 Jj"""^ H. Ryan 
107 Magee Ave. Rochester 10, N. Y. ^ 
LEO B. WARD, fornicr president of llic Xotrc Dainc .-Mimini Association and prominent attorney in Los Angeles, is legal counsel for tlic Los An­geles Rains, professional r<H>tbaIl team. 
PAUL BERGER of Los Angeles, Calif., «as gen­eral diairman of the Tax Executives, Inc., Confer­ence held in Los .-Vngcles whicli attracted more than 600 of the nation's top tax consultants. 
DUDLEY PE,\RSO.\ is serving as Chief .Sp­praiser in the Loan Guaranty Division of the Milu'aukec Regional Office of the Veterans .Adminis^ tratlon. 
1921 i^"" ^^'-^"^y 
' *"' 1101 N.B.C. Bldg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
1 922 Gerald A, /\she *• 39 Cambridge St. Rochester 7, N. Y. 
35VeftR 
••SBBMSB 
Reunioa 
June i 
CLASS 
We regret exceedingly to announce the death of another beloved classmate—GEORGE P. HE.\EG­Hf\X of South Bend, on July 26 in St. Joseph's Hospital of that city following illness of l\vo months. We extend our loving sympathy to ^frs. Phyllis Heneghan, widow of the deceased, and to son, James, and to other sur\-iving relatives. The funeral Mass was held in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. Pallbearers included Prof. JAMES .MCCARTHY , also two '22 classmates. Prof. AVAL­TER L. SHILTS and CYRIL KELLETT, Latter made the long trip from his home in MilfortK Mass., to attend George's funeral. THOM^. "SARGE " OWENS was an honcrar\- pallbcarcrT George was an associate of James McCarthy and .-Vssociatcs, Consulting Engineers, of South Bend. Previously George was an assistant superintendent of the Water Works of South Bend, a project engi­neer for the Indiana State Highway Commission, also, he had been affiliated with the Dean Steel Corporation of Chicago and Roberts and Schaefer Company of same city and with Pearson Construc­tion Company of Benton Harbor. George will be greatly missed by all of his '22 classmates because no member of our class was better liked. He w^^ very loyal to 1922 and a]wa\-s arranged to attend our class reunions. 
D/\X YOUNG of Aurora, >tinnesota, wlio is busily engaged in construction for Foley Brothers Construction Company of Eric Mining Company's huge taconitc project for processing low grade iron ores, sends regrets on news of George Hencghan's death and stales he has arranged for a Mass for George up on the Iron Range. 
.\ Mass for George Heneghan requested bv our Class and celebrated by Father GEORGE FISCHER, C.S.C., of "22, was gratefully acknowledged by tit:* George P. Heneghan family. 
Sons of '22 men matriculating, at N.D, this Sep­tember include: L.\RRY HANRxVHAN, son of VINCE; MIKE KE.\RNS, son of RxU'MOND J.; and TOM REICHERT, son of RO.MAIXE. 
And speaking of the Reicherts, we might mention that Tom and his brother, John, were featured in a beautiful color photo in early August by the ^Itnneapolis Tribune racing their sailboat Aqua Gem on the waters of Lake Harriet in Minneapolis. John is presently a senior at N.D. Dad Romainc is rightfully proud of his sons. 

36 Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 
THOM.\S P. LISTOX, MO 
Thomas Liston, who used to do some operating in Notre Dame's Stadimn of a football weekend, is the new operat­ing manager and vice president of Sib­ley, Lindsay and Curr, Rochester, New 

^ York's largest department store. 
Tom graduated from the United States Air Force Flying School in 1941 and was commissioned a Second Lieu­tenant. As a Major, he commanded the 377th Figiiter Squadron in the European theater and flew 86 missions. He holds the Distinguished Flying Cross witli Oak Leaf Cluster. He was 

0 one of the early jet fighter pilots, hav­ing flown jets as early as December 1944. 
After his discharge from the sen.'ice in 1945, he became Store Superintend­ent and Director of Personnel at Man­del Brothci-s, Chicago, and held that position imtil 1950. He was General ^ Superintendent of Bloomingdale's in New York City from 1950 to 1952. Tom was a member of the Board of Directors of the National Dry Goods Association, and Chainnan of tlic Store Management Group of the NDGA from 1955 to 1956. He is a member of the Executives' Club of " Chicago, the Economic Club of Chi­cago, the Chicago Athletic Association 
V and the Elks. He is also a Past Com­mander of Post No. 307 of the Amer­ican Legion. 
Tom and his wife Peg have three children, Mary Kay, Patrick, and Mar­garet Ann. 

.•Mready we are getting proniises of attendance at our 35th Anniversar\* Reunion next June. It is not too early to suggest that 1957 vacation arrange­ments provide for your journey to the X.D. campus next year. If you want to make your '22 friend', happy, ari^ngc to be in llieir company on the gala occasion of our 35th Reunion. 
We have received verv sad news from Mrs. CH.\RLES J. (PAT) HIRSCHBUHL of Portland, Oregon, announcing the death in that city on June 28 of Katlierinc Hirsclibuhl, sister of Charles J.^K>ur classmate of happy memory. Katlierine was the last member of the Ilirschbuhl family. Please do remember her in vour pravers. 
R.U".MOXD J. KE.\RXS lias been president of 
the recently reorganized N.D. Club of Terre Haute 
which has taken on a new lease on life from its 
spark plug president. 
In late .-\ugust there was a seminar of '22 men 
from the LaGrange-Elmhurst, 111., area in the 
picnic pavilion of TO.\l SPEXCER .\Ic&\BE of 
Elmliurst. In addition to the genial host, in at­
tend.ince were: JOE FARLEY, JACK R^\HE, 
TONY SCHIAVO.NE, BRUCE HOL.MBERG, (hon­
orary '22) and your secretary. Oratorical honors 
were quite evenly divided with a shade going to 
Big Bruce Ilolmberg. 
1 923 Louis V. Bruggncr 
2165 Riverside Drive 
South Bend, Indiana 
NEIL FLINN is associated with the Loan Guar­
anty Division of the Milwaukee Regional Oilice of 
the Veterans .Administration. 
LEO C. GR,\F, '23. died suddenly Wednesday night, September 19, 1956, after attending a sales meeting in his home city of Cleveland, Ohio, lie collapsed in his car after the meeting and was dead on arrival at St.' Luke's I fuspital in that city. He had been in the drug business in and near Cleveland for 30 years and at the time of his death w-as associated with the Miller Drug Stores as branch manager. His picture, it now develops, appeared in cap-and-gown section of the 1923 Dome, but, strangely, his name was not on the class roster furnished this office by the Alumni .\ssociation stalT on the occasion of otu- 1953 re­union. Leo is survived by his wife, Jean Coe Graf, and two daughters, residing at 4237 Bushnell Road, University Heights, Cleveland, Ohio. 
News of his death came to this office by means of a neat assist from NELSON Ci\LL.AH.AN, who enclosed newspaper clippings and a personal note. 
Memos on my desk: "7-7-3G COLONEL ELMER 
COLLINS was in to sec you. Said he was Sony 
you were not in. . . . 9-I3-5G COLONEL ELMER 
COLLINS was in to see you. Said he was sorry-
yon were not in. Also said you must have a fine 
job to be gone so much." Remember tltat one 
time, Elmer, when I was in? 
A project of moderate importance to the Univer­
sity is afoot on the part of the 1923 Class. De­
tails are going forth in the mail to Classmates, but 
other classmen are requested to sec the next issue 
of the ALU.MNUS for details. 
DR. JOH.\ H. A. WHfr.MAX, not a member 
of this Class, now Dean of King's College, Wilkes-
Barre, Pa., apparently reads the .ALUMNUS thor­
oughlv. In the last issue he read mv request for 
information on DO.MINIC ONG CHING KAY, 
a '23 man whose amil has been returned to senders 
unclaimed. Dr. Whitman reported on the authority 
ff JOHN GO that Dominic has been dead for 
•ome years. Does anyone else have further in­
formation? 
The A.A. office for^varded to me some time ago an excerpt from a trade journal, INSULATION, in which ROBERT G. QUI.NN, was given a big write-up as a "leader in the insulation field." The article is too long to summarize here, but It is important enough to cause us to nominate Bob as a "Spotlight .Alumnus," Bob, it seems, has a dozen patents in paper and asbestos millboard to his credit, and is the inventor of two products bearing bis name—Qninterra and Qninorgo. 
LINUS C. GLOTZBACH (in the course of the 
aliove-nametl Class project) wrote on the stationery 
of Northwest .Airlines. Inc.. St. Paid, Minn., of 
which he is Vice-President in ch.argc of personnel. 
KID ASHE, '22, has been responsible on three 
occasions for my receipt of '23 class news. His 
latest letter, which arrived just in time for the 
deadline for this issue, had two items of interest, 
for whidi I thank him heartilv: 
PAUL CASTNER, JR., son of the '23 pappy of 
the same name, made a magnificent if unsuccessful 
run in the Minnesota primaries for a Congressional 
seat from Ramsey County, Minn., losing by 900 
votes, and making a fine impression. 
DANIEL JAMES REG.AN on August 18 married 
JOHN F. ROBINSON, '28 

, Two of John Robinson's boys are at Notre Dame. There's nothing surpris­ing about that until you realize that he has only one son (apd four daughters). 'His boys' are from The Robinson School which John founded in 1949. 
John was a teacher at Notre Dame during 1928-1929, and, after graduate work at Yale, an assistant headmaster and teacher at Cheshire Academy be­tween 1932-1942. He has been special assistant to Connecticut's Tax Commis­sionerj executive secretary to former governor Robert Hurley; state director of Selective Service; and a member of the staff of the national director of Selective Service. 
He was appointed a Lieutenant Commander of the Navy in 1943, and a Commander in 1945. In 1945 he was awarded the Legion of Merit by the navy and the Commendation Rib­bon by the army. 
John has been Chairman of the Ad­visory Board of Albertus Magnus Col­lege in New Haven for the past 12 years, and is Director of the Boys Club in Hartford, Secretary of Boys Village, and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Education in AVest Hartford. 
He is a past deputy and Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus, a member of the Hartford Rotary, and the 1955 President of the Notre Dame Club of the Connecticut Valley which elected him its "Man of the Year" that year. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 37 
olf las daughter. Dona Ana, to Lt. William I*. 
Dcxtraze, USA, in Houston, Texas. Tlib, writes 
the Kid, is Dan's second daughter. (Thanks, Kid, 
for both items.) 
Members of the Class of 1923 arc asked to consult 
the next ''news-letter," now in tJic process of 
compilation, for many memorabilia, amusing 
minutiae, and numerous non sequjturs not to br 
found in these columns. 
1 004 Janics R. Meehan I TAT 329 So. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Indiana 
1975 J°^ ^- Hurley 
I TAi^ 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
CHUCK COLLINS has just been named president of the National Carloading Corporation with head­quarters in Chicago. Tlic firm has 150 offices throughout the United States. 
GEORGE F. FITZGER/\LD, who formerly re­sided in Olean, X. Y-, now Hvcs at 41 North American Street, AVoodburx', N. J. 
197A Rudolph A. Goepfrich 
• ^^^ 1109 N. Cleveland Ave. South Bend 28, Ind. 
This is your new secretarj-'s first stint of gath­ering news items for The Alumnus. I hope I can do half as good a job as did JOHN RYAN, but I'll need your help, 
VINCE GOULET, our new treasurer, is with the Universal Cyclops Steel Corporation, \vitli offices in Rock Island, Illinois. His home address is 2803 25th Ave., Rock Island, III. He's looking for that contribution to the class trcasur>'. Vince reports that he has heard from ED CROWE, Detroit, Mich.; -MARK MOONEY, V,P. of the Typhoon .\ir Conditioning Company, Brooklyn, N. Y.; BOB CAHILL, of Cahill and Block, New York, and JOE SHE.-\, Resident Manager of the Hotel Statler, New York. Tlie latter two expressed their regrets on not having been able to attend our last reunion. In addition, MARK MOONEY reports that the New York Club had their annual baseball dinner and night at Ebbcts Field, where he 5a^^' BILL D>\'YER and FATHER CAVANAUGH. Bob Cahill requested a class picture, which was sent on to him. His office reported that he was 
abroad in August and would not return until exu'Iy 
October. 
Had a nice letter from RAY DURST in w4iich 
he told how he enjoyed the reunion vcr>- much. 
Maridare, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT 
V. DUNNE, was married to Mr. Clement De­,\micis, in Saint Vincent de PauFs Church, San Francisco, on August 18. GEORGE F. H/\RNETT, recently retired treasurer of our class, is at his home in Clilcago, recuperating from an illness whicli had him in the hospital for several weeks. \Wr c hoping for a quick recover^', George, .^n article in tlic July 1956 **Sign" magazine tilled "Apostle in the Executive Suite'* deals with the outstanding Catholic-executive career of JOHN Q. ADAMS, President of Manhattan Refrigerating Co. 
WALTER TROHAN, Chief of the Chicago Tribune Washington Bureau headed the Tribune's staff covering the Democratic and Republican national conventions. He has been In Washington since 1934, and after various positions, was made Chief of the Bureau In 1949. He has reported his seventh consecutive national campaign. 
We regret to report the death, on August 26. of MANSIEL G. HAGERT^'. Let's remember him, and the other 57 deceased members of our class, in our pravers. 
Wc understand CH.ARLIE HOLLOWAY has been promoted to Vice-President at Marshall Field & Company In Chicago. We'll tr\' to get more details for the next Issue. 
I still have a few class reunion pictures left. A buck in the mail will bring \*ou one. 
1 097 Steve Ronay 
1125 Woodlawn 
South Bend 16, Indiana 
Reunion 
Junt I 
1928 Louis F. Buckley ^ j 
• ^^ 1253 North Central Ave. ^ ' Chicago 51, Illinois 
VINCENT P. DUCEY died July 28, 1956 In 
Sacramento, California, from a heart condition. 
Xlnce had been employed with the California State 
EmpIo>'ment Seni-icc for a number of years. He 
was single. He was a lieutenant-commander In the 
na\-al rescr\e. Our Class Treasurer JACK SHEEDY 
arranged for FaUier ANDY .MULREANY, C.S.C., 
to ofTcr a Mass for Vince. Please remember hlm'Ti 
in your prayers. I want to thank LEO WALSH '­
for advising mc of Vince's death. . 
Father JI.M .McSH^\NE, S.J., will offer a Mass 
on the first Sunday of November and Father Andy 
Mulrcany, C.S.C., on the last Sunday of November 
for the deceased members of the Class of 1928. Re­
member our deceased classmates at Mass on those 
days. 
BILL JONES has our sympathy on the death of his mother on July 8. I also want to extend our sv-mpathy to GEORGE COURY who lost his father In dcatli on August 2. I also regretted Iiearing of'" the death of our old professor, Father BROUGHEL. — 

BOB KIRBY suffered a ver>' serious heart attack in ^lay. I called him when I wns in Indianapolis in June and was advised that he was making a satIsfactor>* recovery. I visited VINCE WALSH in Montlccllo, III., In October when I gave a talk at the University of Illinois. Vince was recovering from a cataract operation. JOHN LEIT2INGER reports that PHIL LYTLE lias fully recovered from Iiis eye operation. DR. BILL McGEE had major 5urger>' at Passavant Hospital in Chicago Involring the removal of left kidney for malignancy. "^ 
When in New York in August I noted a news- ** paper stor>' announcing the appointment of CHARLES TOPPING as Netv York Area Sales Manager for the Jolins-^lanville Pipe Division with headquarters at 270 Madison .\venue. New York City. Bud has three sons, the oldest a Freshman at Notre Dame this year. 
DR. BILL MAHIN of Cambridge, Ohio, con­sulting engineer on research and development problems, has been named executive secretary of the Committee on Manpower for the Mcta!Iurg>* and Ceramics Professions. In his new position. Bill will co-ordinate the wotV of numerous study ^ groups sur\"c\-ing scholarship plans and sccondarj-— school guidance programs. He has held executive 
GRAND RAPIDS—Head table at golf day dinner included, left to right: Fred Gast, Charles Duffy, Frank Gear>', Bob Linsey, Msgr. Ray­mond Sweeney, Msgr. Bryant, "Moose" Krause, John Jordan, Frank Thrall and Dick McComiick. Standing, Ed Tuohy and John Deeb. 
Noire Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 
PETER P. SOMER\aLLE, '29 
Peter Somemlle is the new general manager of the Wire Rope division of Jones and Laughlin Steel Corporation at Muncy, Pennsylvania. 
After graduation as a mechanical 

0 engineer, Pete joined \VilIiamsport Wire Rope, and later was with Beth­lehem Steel. In 1938 he joined Jones and Laughlin as superintendent of the Wire Rope division. In 1942 he be­came general superintendent and last April was moved up to his present post. 
^ Pete has been active in hospital drive 
^ work and has also served as president of the \Villiamsport (Pa.) Notre Dame Club. 
His daughter, Sheiyl, completed her pre-medical course at Bucknell Uni­versity. She will enter Temple Univer­sity School of Medicine, wliile a son. 

^ William, is attending Villanova Uni­versity. Pete also has a daughter, Jan­ice, who is in high school. 
He recently bought a farm and, iiav­ing studied agriculture, plans to en-lars^e his rural interests in the future. 
positions willi the Wcstinghoiiso Electric Corp.. .•\riiioiir Kcsearcli Foundation, Vanadium Corpora­tlon of .'Vinerica. and tlie Htintcr Engineering Co. at Riverside, CaliFornia. Bill lias a married daugh­ter and two sons, one of whom works for Wcstinghmise. 
GEORGE A. WAGNER is working in Guam as real property oHicer with the Na\->' Department. His address is Box 35, Agana, Guam. 
I am pleased to have thu opportunity of an­nouncing a birth for a diange. MARTIN RINI'S voungcst daughter and fourth child arrived May 
3. BJG. Tlie youngest of JOHN C-WAXAUGH'S five cliildren ts only live months old. Pleast let mo know- of additional births. 

News has reached mc concerning daughters of four classmates who have entered religious orders. JOE GERAGHT\"S oldest daughter was professed in the Mercy Order of Nuns on August 17, 1956. Her name is Sister Marv Josctta. JOE MOR­RISSEY tells me that BILL O'.MARA'S daughter, who is a Little Sister of the Poor, is in Europe. BURT TOEPP'S daughter, Paula, who attended .Marquette University last year, entered the Daugh­ters of Charitv of St. Vincent De Paul in St. Louis. JERRY DECLERCQ*S daughter, Cath­erine, entered the convent in June at the Domini­can Order at .Adrian, Michigan. 
No doubt a number of you saw JIM SHOCK­NESSY on TV at the Democratic Convention when the Ohio delegation was called upon to vote. Ilv the time this appears in print wc will know whether ROSCOE BONjE.\N has been elected as the Democratic candidate for Lieutenant Governor of Illinois. I am sure there must he a number of '28 men involved in the political campaign this year. Please give me a report on those who were elected to public office. 
Father .MARK FITZGER.\LD spent the summer in Geneva studying the International Labor Organi­zation. He visited DR. JOE SULLIVAN in Mu­nich. Father Mark had an excellent article on Niagara Power Struggle in the June 23, 1956, issue of .America. Father Fitzgerald and I at­tended the National Catholic Action Conference in New Orleans where I was on the program. 
Our good friend F.ATHER MULa\IRE visited Ireland this summer. I had several get-togethers recently with classmates. We spent a very pleas­ant week-end with the VLN'CE CARNEY's at their summer place in Wisconsin with the JIM ALL-AN's. Vincc has some great plans for wearing apparel for '28 men at our 30-year reunion in 1958. As you know, Vince, with the advice of WILL.ARD WAGNER, has been responsible for the outstanding '28 hats, shirts and ties used at prior reunions. JI.M ALL.AN and I also enjoyed a week-end with the ED McKEOWN's at their home on Lake Michi­gan at Dune Acres in Chesterton, Indiana. We tried to contact Ed's neighbor, .MICKEY QUAL­TERS> but he was away at the time. 
I had lunch recently with DICK QUINI*i\N, legal advisor to the Chairman of the Railroad Retirement Board. Dick sees BOB .MOHLM^VX regularly. Bob has four children and Is in the jewelry business in Lafayette, Ind. Dick tells me that CHARLEY L\'NCH who practices law In California has an M.D. degree. A insit to New York gave mc the opportunity to get together with BERNIE GARBER and STEVE SHERRY. Tlicy arc with the Lyman T. CoHiin Co. and engaged in fund raising by direct mail. I also talked with GEORGE CRONGEYER who Is with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. 
Thanks to the cooperation of classmates who sent newspaper clippings about other '28 men, I have a number of interesting items to report. J. HARVEY DALY, a former president of the Wash­ington Chapter of the .American Society for Training Directors and the Washington Personnel ^Vssoclation, was appointed chairman of the Commissioners' Committee on the Emplo>'ment of the Phvsically Handicapped. JOHN BUSCHMEYER, Adminis­trator of the Louisville General Hospital, recently completed a year as president of the Kentucky State Hospital Association, FATHER JIM Mc-SH.-VNE, S.J., gave the address at the Denver Club on Universal N.D. night, TERRY DONA­HUE was "Man-of-the-Year" in the town of East­chester. N. Y., in 1956. Terry is listed in "Who's Who in American Education," JOHN IGOE is District Governor of Serra International in Colum­bus, Ohio. I noted in our neighborhood paper where RiVY MULLIG^VN is chainnan of the Colum­bus Council, an organization to promote the wel­fare of the residents of our section of Chicago. A neighbor of FR^\NK CRE.ADON gave us clip­pings concerning the Youngstown district's "Notre Dome Man of the Year," GEORGE KELLEY, assistant managing editor of the Vindicator. The citation of the Notre Dame Club of Youngstown asserted George Kelley's "unselfish devotion to duty in his chosen journalistic field" and his "quiet but inspiring leadership in the field of Catholic Action for more than a quarter of a century." LEO WALSH was appointed to the Michigan Labor Mediation Board, Jan. I, 1956. 
iV preliminary', but incomplete, roundup of col­lege activities of children of '28 men is as follows: FRANK CRE^VDON reports that when he took his son Pat to N.D. to begin his freshman vear, he met JIM KE.\RNS and JOE HILGER with their sons there. Others with sons enrolling as 
FRANK S. SZYMANSKI, '47 

Frank Szj'manski is used to being in the spotlight. He footballed his way right from Notre Dame's Stadium to the captain slot of the East in the '46 East-West game, and the pro Lions, Eagles and Bears. But that's not what he's here for now. He's the new Audi­tor General of the State of Michigan. 
After graduating from Detroit U.'s College of Law, he was appointed hearing examiner of the Michigan Liq­uor Control Commission. His present term expires in 196L Since 1951 he has become vice-president and chair­man of the Board of Directors of the 
F. H. Midway Construction Co. and also vice-president of the St. Lawrence (insurance) Agency. 
Frank ser\'es on the Governor's State Administrative Board and is chairman of Michigan's Employee's Retirement Fund, Judge's Retirement Fund, and Building Committee. He is a member of Michigan's Finance and Claims Committee, Municipal and Finance Commission, and Transportation Com­mittee. 

He and his wife Lillian are raising their own backfield—Pat, Mike, Frank and Dave. 
frcslimcn at N.D. Ihb vcar include ED QUINN, .MIKE HOGAX, JOHX LEfrZINGER, CHRISTIE FL,\NNIGAN, DICK PHEL,\N and BUD TOP­PIXG. I hope to give you a complete report on this matter in our next issue. Classmates uith sons at otiicr colleges include the following: BURT TOEPP at Indiana Universilv doing graduate \**ork, JERRY DECLERCQ at St. Joseph's College; FRANK DONOVAN at the University of XGami; CHARLIE SHELAXSKV at Potsdam Teachers Col-
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 39 
WASHINGTON, D. C.—Gaylord P. Haas, '29 (second from right), was the Washington alumni's choice for Man of the Year. Others in picture are (left to right): E, F. Murphy, '40; Howard J. Schellenberg, Jr., '41, outgoing president; Dr. Afatthcw J. SuIIi\'an, '43, presi­dent-elect; and Walter J. Murphy, Jr., '53. 
lege; GERALD SHEIBLEY at University of De­troit; B. P. WOOD at ^'c\^• Mexico A & M; HERB McCABE at the University of Madrid. 
Dausbters of classmates arc at the foUouing colleges: JOE MORRISSEY at Our Lady of Cin­cinnati College; JOHN GOCKE at St. Vincent's College of Xur^g ; NEIL AMIOT and BILL McGEE ai St. Mar>-'s; GERALD SHEIBLEY at Mary Manse College; BOB HAMILTON at Queens; JOHN LEITZINGER at Pcnn State; JOHN R. MURPHY at Ohio State. 
Additions to the list of classmates who arc grandfathers include the Jollowing: CHRISTIE FLANAGAN, FRANK DONOVAN, TOM WALSH, 
B. P. WOOD, HENRY MASSNLVN, BOB EVANS, BOB GRESSER, JOHN DAVIS, BILL MAHIN, TERENCE DONAHUE. CHRISTIE FLANAGAN, TERRV DONAHUE and your class secretary have three grandchildren each. I wU appreciate hearing from others on this subject. 
SUXDE SCHROEDER's son, who ^^-as graduated from N.D., married the daughter of JIM KELLY, '29, in Grand Rapids. Swede saw DOS RAU of l.ansing at the wedding. FRANK DONOVAN'S daughter was married also this summer. 
FATHER JIM McSHANE, S.J., reports that he hears from MORTON GOOD\L\N, *30, who is practicing law at Beverly Hills, Calif. ^fo^lon sees his roommate, AL WELZENBACK, '30, from Peoria, W'ho is also in California- Fatlier Jim is teaching in tlic High School of Annunciation Parish in Denver. 
BILL ARMIN is connected witli the ^Vnny Audit .Agency in Birmingliam, Alabama- SAM DUNNE is still in the rice business in Sacramento. He has two children. Sam mentioned that he was looking forward to seeing VINCE McNALLY when the Eagles play there. B. P. WOOD of Santa Fe, New Mexico, still carries a whistle at high school football games—Billy still flies his Cessna 140 A around the New ^lexico skies and is a Lt. Colonel in the J-A-G. Corps Rcser^-c. He holds a mobili­zation designation as an Asst. Staff J A at 4tli Army Hq., Ft- Sam Houston. Texas. JOE MORRISSEY reported that he saw DICK PHELAN at the N.D. Spring game. Dick has a boy on the N.D. squad. DR. JOHN GOCKE of Los ..\ngclcs lias seven children. PAUL BRUST, who is in arclntecture in Milv^'aukee, has eight cJiildrcn, ages 2 to 15­DUTCH REIDER writes from the River Rouge Power Plant of tlic Detroit Edison Co. indicating he M'ould like to have some news conccrtims hh old roommates, PEARL MOORE and JOHN FAGAN . Unfortunately, I have not been able to get a response from either of them. Can someone help me out? F . X. J.AMES O'BRIEN is with A- M. Kidder & Co.^ 139 E. Flagler St., Miami, Florida. Jim attended the S.^LU. and Na\y games this year. GEORGE COURY, who is a mem­ber of the N. Y. Stock Exchange, has his ofhcc 
40 Notre Dame AlumnuSj Nov.-Dec, 1956 
at Bache & Co., DuPont Building, 96 N.E. 2nd .Ave., Miami, Florida. ED LEVINSON, who was with our class during our Freshman year, recently bought Ofsco-Omalia Fixture and Supply Co. Ed has three cliiWren. CHARLES SCHLEGEL is a manufacturer's representative in Detroit. He has three boys, the oldest of whom was married this summer. 
Thanks for your help in sending news and your letters of appreciation for my efforts in giving you this column. Please send me every item you sec in the papers or ne%vs you hear or receive regard­ing '2& men. The many offers ol assisxancc and expressions of interest received already fronceming our 50-year reunion in 1958 indicate it will be a great success. 
BUFFALO—President Ralph F. Else (center) 
192 9 "^""^'i J- Plunkett Biologj- Department Notre Danie, Indiana 
JOE LEXIHAX (From,,, S: Sichel Inc.) comes 
through witfi a fine letter^ 
For a long time now I have bren promising you 
MHiie news for our '29 cohiinn .. . so here goes! 
Last February-I was in Denver and had the 
pleasure of a visit with BOB DICK. Bob is in 
private law practice there. I hadn't seen him for 
quite a few years but outside of an extra pound / 
around the middle and a gray hair or two, he is 
still the handsome Bob \\c knew so many years ago. 
In June I was talking to the erstwhile trumpet 
player and inilcr PETE MORG/VN. Peter is now 
liead track coacli at Princeton. I hope to see 
more of Pete in the future as 1 plan to move 
to New Jersey in October-
In this connection. I have had >«nie business 
dealings with VINCE McCUE, '30. of Red Bank, 
-V- J. Vincc sees DR. GEORGE .McDOXALD of 
Freehold and Lj\RRY CARTON who is in private 
law practice at Atlantic Highlands. He reports t 
favorably on llie In-allli and uell being of bolli " 
and I hope, George and Larr\-. (if you are reading) 
to personally confirm this in the near future! 
Today I spoke to JOE HARTNETT who Is a trust olliccr of the Irving Trust and who is probably going to get some sort of record for our class— lie is still a bachelor! I worked on him for quite a while as to future plans, etc., but he assures me that at tlie moment there is no blonde or brunette lurking around tlie corner. 
Joe mentioned having heard from REYNOLDS SEITZ during the summer. Reynolds is dean at Marquette University Law School in Milwaukee. i 
During tlic summer I had a visit from J. CAR­ROLL PINCKLEY, '28. of Portageville. Mo. He is in the retail drug business there. He was a good friend of many in our Class and lie asked particu­larly about VINCE CARNEY. How are you Vince and do you still read the "right" news­paper? 
KARL K-ASCHEWSKI xvas in abt.ut three weeks ago. He is w-iili a flnancial outfit here in New York which specializes in mutual funds. Karl looks very well. 
Las fall my wife and I had a ver\' pleasant visit witJi Mrs. Ceil Mulhall at Owosso, Michigan-{ She is the widow of our beloved classmate JOE MULHALL. Their son Mickey entered N-D- this fall witli the Class of '60. He is a fine lad who will be tlic fine N.D- man %ve knew his Dad to be. 
JOE FRIEL of Rockville Center and Seagrams keeps plenty busy these days with his growing 

 is recci\-ing a gift of $500 from John Dun­
nigan, former 'SJ). student, for the HuSalo cluVs scholarship fund while Joseph Dunn , (left) obser\*es. The presentation was made at the Buffalo Raceway marking "Notre Dame Night at the Races." Jim Dunnigan, '34, is president of the Raceway and John is his son. 
^TALLAHASSEE—^Attendinic a recent club meeting were: Lynn Carroll, Thomas J. Carroll, "judge John P. Mack, Ed AIucHer, Jack Alurphj-, Father Gerald ^Veinhcimcr, asscsrant pastor of Blessed Sacrament Church. Wib Marshall, Pat Haley, Mary Dw-jxr and Tony Dwjer. 
family, etc. . . . four girls and throe future X.D. men (my nieces and ncpheus). 
At our New York Club meeting last night I saw JIM CURRY who reported lia\'jng a recent visitor from Boston, JERRY CROWLEY. He staled Jerrx­w'as in tip-top shape and they both started making 

• their plans for the big 30tlu 
I also saw WALTER DONNELLY. Walter ad­vised he recently became a partner in DeU'itl. Van Akcn and Nast, attorneys for the New York World Telegram. He will be located in the Gray­bar Building. Incidentally. Walter, Jr. is a junior at school . . . his son Billy had been at N.D. but left for military ser\'icc \WtIi tfic U. S. Marines and is expected to return in a year or so. His third son, Jim. enters Manhattan College in New York this fall. 
Fronim S: Sichel have moved our oilices and are now located at the following address: 

A  327 Madison  Avenue  
^  Xetv York 22, N. Y.— Phone : Plaza 5-9100  
I will bo happy  to hear  from  any  of  my  class­ 

mates should thev conic to New York.—JOE LENI­HAN. 

HUGH J. McMANIGAL, Inc., General Contract­ors has recently been changed from Acme Con­struction Company "One of Miami's oldest con­tracting firms.'* ilugh sa>^ that positively nothing changed except the name and the phone number and only to give enlarged ser\'ice. I fugh also sends along some notes on '29crs. 
Hugh writes in from Miami: FJUXCIS J. (FRANK) HAVELICK "the Bil­

• lings, Montana Flash," has Just returned from two months with his family on a vacation in Hawaii. His daughters, II and 14. undoubtedly improved their swimmin;; abilities while there and will add to the Florida Slate laurels llicy possess for their age groups. Frank has resumed his duties as chief pilot for Panagra which operates throughout South America and, although Frank's job is sup­posed to be an executive type, he still flies on occasion. 
JERO.ME E. (JERRY) OUELLETTE, originally of Madison. Nfalne continues as physical education 
^instructor in our local public school s\'5tcm and has just returned from a long summer vacation on the ocean in New Hampshire where he was near Ins boy, Jerr>% who is now Frater Reno An­thony at a Franciscan House in Rye Beach, New Hampshire. Young Jerry- will be a Priest in five years. Jcrr\-'s daughter is married. 
GEORGE A. BR/\UTIGAM, originally of Chi­cago, and his Dorothy are proud of four children 16-13-12. and 4, the first and last boys. George lost his 82-year-old fatlier this past summer and we 
^all give him our sympathy. Come the first of 
Bjanuar>- and George will return to his private practice of law after about four years as State's .Attorney for this, the most populous and greatest county of a great state. He has been a great credit to Noiro Dame and all local N.D. men arc proud of his record in this important elective office. 
All in our Class will remember GEORGE LEP­PIG that stalwart guard who graduated in '28. Ha\-ing been with the Marine Corps since 1933. George has been stationed ?ll over the world and in the thickest of the Pacific actions. George only weighed 166 pounds when he and Clipper 
^Smith held down the guard positions; today he tips th<? scales at 179. so he. in l.'nc with the traditions of the Marine Corps which he has been helping to build, is still in '"fighting trim." George's classmates «-ilI be glad lo have his permanent address which is 3189 Roosevelt Street in Holly­wood, Florida where his Gertrude and their two children reside. .-V boy and a girl, 9 and 7. George had one tour of duty as head man of the Na\"al Traim'ng Unit at Washington University at Seattle. He is now Provost Marshal at the Marine Air Station here in Miami. 
My son, Hugh HI, now in his senior year at high scliool, being a big fellow of 195 and 6*. is stated for N.D. in '57. 
Probably I'd qualify for the most grandchildren amongst my classmates, • an>-way lliere are eight. .Vothing much new here, still spending my week­ends on my boat and mostly in the Florida Keys where the fishing is tops.—Hugh. 
GEORGE J. AITKENS has xsked mc to inform you of his change of address. His former'^drcss was: 5912 Chillumgatc Road, Hyattsvilfe, Jlfaryfand and his present address is: R.F.D. No. I, Box 32F, 

- Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico. The headline read: Lochbough Named General Manager of Center Connected with Housing Industry Many Years 
BERNARD £. LOSHBOUGH, Deputy Represen­

tative for India for the Ford Foundation, has been 
appointed general manager of the National Housing 
Center, Washington, D. C, it was annotmced 
recently by Neal Hard, director. 
Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Company announces 

that KARL E. M.ARTERSTECK was elected viccT 
president by its board of directors. He wJU cony 
tinue to 5er\-c as manager of the Cleveland Division 
with offices at 213 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland 14, O. 
ALOIS J. WELZENBACH has recently become associated vvith the Banner Metals, Inc., at 2053 East 38th Street, Los Angeles, Calif. The presi­dent- of the company, incidentally, is VINCENT 
J. RYAN, Class of 1940, and the chairman of the board is BILL COLEMAN, also of the Class of '40. Al resigned from Safev»-ay on April 1. His present job calls for extensive traveling and he has been itt the East and Midwest several times s'lacc last spring. 
FRANCIS J. GUSHING recently went on a pilgrimage to Lourdcs and Fatima. He made two nine-day novenas at Lourdes and spent two days in Fatima. His presrnt address is Francis J. Cash­ing, Westfield State Sanitarium, Westfield, Mass. 
193 0 ^^^^^ Plimkctt 
O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Xotre Dame, Indiana 
LARRY CRONIN has been appointed director 

of industrial relations of Greer Hydraulics, Inc.. 
New York International Airport, Jamaica, N. Y. 
He went to Greer \rith 14 years* experience in 

the personnel and industrial relations field. For 
the past three years, he has been the labor rela­
tions manager for Pabst Brrwerics in Mthvaukec. 
Prior to that position, from 1947 to 1953, Larr\­
was associated with the United States Rubber Com­
pany as the assistant industrial relations manager 
and super\'tsor of labor relations for the Passiac. 
.Vcw Jersey branch. From 1&42 to 1947, he 
tvorkcd for Wright Aeronautical Corporation in 
ROCHESTER—^Alumni Secretary James E. Armstrong was guest of honor at a recent club meeting. Standing, left to right: Jack Nye Duffey, club president; Bill Dcmpscy, secretary; and Richard Sullivan, nominee to the Alumni Association Board of Directors. Seated: Wil­liam Bell (left) and William iMerriman, classmates of Armstrong, flank the principal speaker. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1936 
TWIN CITIES—UND Night, held in Minneapolis, Minn., featured Asst. Law Dean John Broderick as guest speaker. Left to right: Frank King, Robert Culligan. Edward Hagerty, Father Craddick, Dean Broderick, Chairman Harold Sodcrberg, Jack Fena and 
Woodridgc, X. J., as the supcmsor of cmplnycc relations. 
Since graduating in our Class Larry has ixjm­plctcd advanced courses in Industrial and Labor Relations at Manhattan College and Rutgers Universitv. He has two cliildrcn. 
J. GILBERT PRENDERGAST, X,D. '30, promi­nent Baltimore attorney' and a member of the University of Maryland Class of *33, has been elected president of tliat university's alumni asso­ciation, it was announced recently by DaWd L. Brigham, alumni executive secretary. 
The new alumni president entered the Univer­sity of Maryland Law Scliool and iv-as graduated in 1933. He was admitted to practice before the Court of Appeals of Marv'Iand in the same year. 
In 1934, Gil became an associate of Walter L. Clark in the practice of law in Baltimore city and since 1945, has been a member of the firm of Clark, Smith & Prendcrgast. For two years. 1941-43, he ^yas an assistant city solicitor. 
Gil is past prcddcnt of the Junior Bar Associa­tion of Baltimore and former vice-president of the Maryland State Bar Association. In addition, he has scr\'ed on \'arious standing committees of the Bar Association of Baltimore city and the American Bar Association. He is presently a mem­ber of both the Committee on Rules and the Character Committee appointed by the Court of Appeals. 
Gil is a member of Phi Kappa Sigma Fraternity. TIM TOOMEY, who is coming out for the Michigan State game, wrote the following news: 
After the publication of the last issue of the Alumnus, I was admonished because I unliappily misspelled the last name of an esteemed classmate. When my grief became known, I •was advised by other understanding alumni to ignore the matter, and the next time to print the lad's name with small letters; I shall do. 
TOM LANTRY informed me that HARRVs oldest cliild, a young lady of 19, was instantly killed in a tr^ic automobile accident last January near Malone, N. Y. 
WARREN FOGEL, TIM 0*ROURKE, TOM LANTRY, CHICK DRISCOLL, TOM SHEA, »29, FATHER OTIS WINCHESTER, »29, and FATHER LOU THORNTON, '28, and other Notre Dame men we did not meet, were among the many hundreds who paid tlielr respects to JAMES £. FRIEL, SR., father of JI^^. JR., and JOE, '29, and fathcr-in-Iav*- of JOE LENIHAN, '29, who died on February 21si. Please Include the LAN­TRV and FRIEL families along %t'ith those of all Notre Dame families in your prayers. 
If present plans go well, I hope to be able to get back to the University for a weekend at the Midiigan State or Oklalioma games in October. I look forward, vriih pleasure, to all visits to scliool. 
My recent appeal for news for your Class column, brought word from good old "JACKSON" RED­GXTE of Bridgeport, Conn, residence. His letter stated he was hosted by JOHN MORAN at the Holy Cross basketball game \Wth the "Irish" last February in Boston. BUS was loud in his 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 
Club President John Connelly. 

praise for the splendid afTalr managed by John, who is a member of the executive administrative stafT of the City of Boston. Among others he met on the trip to "Beantown," Included JOHN 
T. BURKE, '29, Clinton, Mass. Reddle's oldest son, John, Jr., is presently studying in a Jesuit seminary in Pennsylvania, having miraculously-escaped injury in the disastrous fire at Lenox, Mass. last March. Jolin^s lad, FRANK, Is following in his father's footsteps, haring participated in Uie National Intcrscholastic indoor track games last February, here In New York City, at Madison Square Garden. A dinner with JACK LAVELLE, '28, famed raconteur who doubles as a starter In the leading Eastern track meets, and a chat with ALEX ^\TLSON, *32, coach at the University and teammate during school days made ''DIGGER O'DELL'S" visit to the City a very happv one. All the BRIDGEPORT MURPHYS accompanied JOHN and other Notre Dame men and friends to a reception held In Hartford, Conn, in late Febru­ary, to honor FATHER THEODORE HESBURGH, University president. JIM .MURPHY, '22, was capable toastmastcr. 
All the ''regulars" were at Universal Notre Dame Night get-together at Rupperl's Brewery in April, to commemmoratc the 25th Anniversarv of KNUTE ROCKNE's death. JOE LORDI made one of his rare appearances. JOE Is in the fuel-oil business, and is an active member of the New-York Athletic Club. Until Joe retired from active competition a few years ago, he was a top-ranking squash player. 
I recently had a short diat with £D ARTHUR, 

and also met and said a quick hello and goodbye 
to LEO LOVE in lower Manhattan, where wc all 
work. Saw FRANK MOSHIER at the head of 
his parish delegation in the Brooklyn Holy Name 
parade. 
For classmates traveling in the New England 

area during \-acation, or at any other time, remem­
ber there u-ill always be a light burning in tlie 
window at the TOOMEY homestead in Greenfield, 
.Mass. 
JOHN HEILKER was this year made a partner 

of the Kennedy and Moore law firm in Cincinnati. 
John's name has been added to this ^vell estab­
lished firm of barristers. 
Members of the '30 Class will be very sorry to 

learn of the dcatli of FRANK MOSHIER's mother 
on September 20. They will certainly remember 
the Moshlcr family in their pravers. 
FATHER REGIS J. McCOY, Benedictine, cele­

brated the 25th anniversary- of his ordination this 
past summer. One of the highlights of this Silver 
Jubilee was an impressive banquet given him by 
his parishioners of St. Benedict's Church in Canton, 
Ohio. The Class of 1930 wants to add their 
congratulations, too, to Father McCoy. 
MARTIN J. TRAVERS, prominent business ex­ecutive, receixxd an honorary degree from Niagara Unl^xrsity at the spring coti\-ocation. Martin is rice-president of the Marine Trust Company of Western New York. 
T. LAWRENCE CRONIN, JR., has been ap­

pointed director of Industrial relations of Greer^ Hydraulics, Inc., Jaamtca, N. Y. 
From TI.M TOOMEY: 

This \rill bring you up to date on the news from the Eastern seaboard until I sec you at the Michi­gan State game for a refresher course. 
Belated ne^vs from friends brought mc the sad announcement FRANK MOSHER lost his mother on September 20. FATHER JIM RI2ER was noti­fied and he offered a Requiem Mass on behalf of the Class. -Remember her and all others, relatives and friends. In your prayers. 
Several of us arc planning an early visit to DR. JOHN PREECE at his stock farm outside of Tren-g ton, N. J. The good doctor has several running^^ horses competing on Jersey and local tracks. Sub­scribers of racing slieet take heed. 
All members of the class in town and able to navigate without wheel chairs Joined in the tre­mendous tribute to JACK LAVELLE, '28. by the local Notre Dame Club at the NY Athletic Club on September 26. I have nc\*cr run across so many 
N.D. men In NY at one time outside of the prc-game rallies of the Armv football game. FO­GEL, FRIEL, LANTRY, BRADLEY, BISHKO, O'ROURKE, DENEHY, WINKLER and yours truly completed the local rosier for our CIass.>??. CHUCK ROHR flew up from Dallas, Texas, wIthVsJ PAT CANNY, '28, to join in honoring Jovial Jack­son. Pat Canny related how he made. members of our class pay double for locker keys in the good old days. I never paid him and didn't return my key! 
Local friends of FATHER DAN GLEASON, C.S.C., \rill be pleased to know he has been as­signed to the new Holy Cross Brothers High School in Flushing where he is acting chaplain. 
JIM FRIEL informed us that our standard bear­

er, CHUCK DRISCOLL, writes one of his four 
sons has commenced his studies for the priesthood./^ 
More following MIcliigan State game. 

193 1 James T. Doyle 
• '"* • 902 Oakton Street Evanston, Illinois 
With anollier deadline at hand it seems difhcult to get back in the saddle and report the ne^vs about and from those wonderful Men of 1931. Tlie one outstanding item was the tremendously successful 25-year reunion of our class. Its succcss^j was due to the cooperation of many who put on^^ mail campaigns cither to local groups or on a national basis as did JACK SAUNDERS, JOHN­NIE BURNS, author of "Open Sesame," DAN HALPIN and others. Nor can we forget the yeo­man job done by JOHN .McINTYRE as local arrangements chairman in taking care of meals, music, and a multitude of other detail. Thanks to GIL SEAMAN and FRANK HOLLAND for proriding liquor transportation. And to DICK BARBER who was instrumental In securing a con­tribution of t^vo cases of Seagrams. Thanks to ; RAY COLLINS who prorided the printing of ^ 
stationer)', drinking permits and thr holy card> 
'^Ksting our deceased classmates. Al&o to JIM AICQUAID for the souvenir folders lie provided. One of the highlights was the very* professional tape recording by JOHN KUHN in which he seal his best wishes to his fellow classmates. Tli'.' music and commentary of campus events brought hark many memories, DON OTOOLE is the custodian of this reel and I hope to pre\'aJl upon him to provide some duplicates for local gatherings. FRANCIS HENNEBERGER took raoWng pictures but so far I haven't had a report on his results. 
Although we had over two hundred members of 

• he class of 1931 back lost June I believe there is sufiicicnt interest to those unable to make it to report the letters and comments received both before and after the reunion. A big surprise wa.s a letter from FRANK O'NEIL of Fall River and now New Bedford, Mass. Frank is one of those listed in the "Lost and Like to Find" department I listed some time bock. Don O'TooIc had phoned about him and I hope that before long Frank will come through with an address so he can hear from some of his Olcp Cluh pals. 
^ June 19, 195r. Dear Jim: 
Several issues ago in the Alumnus magazine, I read a note wondering what happened to FR/VNK O'NEIL. I have meant many times to write to vou and ask whether you have seen anv of the old gang. I can think of JERRY READY, DON OTOOLE, JLM a\RMODY and many more. 
I want to ask another question, was lliat WALT PHILIP'S picture in a recent issue with the heading that an RCA executive had gone back to N.D. to study for the priesthood? (Ed. Note: Correct— it was Walt. He was at N.D. during the past 
'B-ear and Is now studving for the priesthood in Philadelphia, Pa.—J.C.). I haven't been back to N.D. since 1933, the year of the World's Fair in Chicago, but I plan to go out that way in a couple of ^vreks and my daugh­ter is insisting that she make a visit, even though we w-cre planning not to go that for. At present I am Director of Industrial Rela­tions at a Firestone subsidiar\' in New Bedford. Mass. I had been Emplo>'ment ^fanagc^ at the Fall River plant of Firestone for nearly 14 years. I don't see too many N.D, boys around this 
section of the country and I have no Idea where ^nan y who were at school in my time are now 'fixing. 
Please give .my best to airv'one you see who I knew at school and I hope someday to see some nf thrm. 
Best regards 

W. FRANK O'NEIL FATHER THOMAS J. CULH.\NE xxTote in April that he would make it in June. Dear Jim: I have been receiving all the literature from you and JACK SAUNDERS relative to the clxss reunion in June. A I was unable to answer sooner t«> give you a definite yes or no. But as things now shape up I shall be there for the reunion. I shall be at Notre Damo for the priests retreat earlier in the week so I shall be able to say over for the reunion. Wc had our Universal Notre Dame banquet here last Monday. Prof. DIncolo gave us a vcr\* fine talk. On Thursday night I attended the banquet at Indianapolis. 
The only members of the Class of '31 I have met since leaving school has . been BERT M.\­
Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S..C., recently ^-isitcd the Republic Aviation Corpu, New York, LONEY down in Austin, Texxs, when I was sta­accompanied by John J. Ryan, *33, vice-president and counsel of the firm. 
tioned in Texas. If any member of the class of Notre Damers, and especially of *31 ever comes to Tcrre Haute they arc welcome to come and visit here at Gibault. The Brothers arc doing a wonderful Job 
I have lost the use of my left hand due to the Missoula, Montana, missed being with the boys of readjusting boys who had been In trouble with 
effects of Parkinson's disease. The Veterans Ad­this time and hopes not to be caught off balance the law. 
ministration gave me a statutor>' award for my for the next reunion. Tony extends his best left hand which entitled me to $1,600 on a new car. wishes to all his classmates. JIM RUDOLPH 
Unless something unforeseen conies up I hope So I have a 1956 Dodge, but since I depend sent a note in May and did make the reunion. 

to be xrilh the class come this Jiinr. 
wholly on my compensation, I won't have the JOHN HURLEY, '25, of Toledo, Ohio, was re­With kindest regards I remain money to make ihe trip. Good luck, Jiui, have sponsible for our showing of the Rocknc films ^ Sincerely a good time." Tom would enjoy a note from at our Class dinner Friday night. Will JOE his classmates. Write him at Box 1412, Ana­WETLI please personally thank John for his con­
• THOMAS J. CULH/VNE, CS.C. 
conda, Montana. JOE MORRIS of 11118 Lake tribution towartb a most memorable evening. One 
W. B. SALM of Canton, Miss., wrote asking Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio writes: "I have been fol­afternoon last May I happened to be chiving on for dope on the reunion whlcli I sent him. TED lowing your progress in the Alumnus, of the re­the northwest side and stopped In to see JOE STRONG of Alhainbra, California, who spent lib union and you and your able assistants should be GONCHIARZ at his drug store. He looks well, freshman year with us, sent a note expressing iiis commended for your vcr>' excellent work. En­but felt guilty at not remembering me immedi­regrets at being unable to return to the campus closed you will find a check to allocate in any way ately. Joe was shocked to hear of the death of of heavenly serenity. TOM GOLDEN manages you wish. I have been sending you a note for a JAMES W. CORA.\l of St. Mary's, West Vir­to conic through \rith a note every* year and hated month or so, but something always prevents it. ginia, who was his roommate at N.D. Another to miss the June date. "Just a note to let you Best wishes to you, your family and your assistiuits frequent visitor to Joe's emporium Is RED O'CON­know not to look for me at our Silver Jubilee for a fine reunion.*' Thank you, Joe, for your NELL who tmfortunately missed the Reunion. Red Reunion. I am now totally and permanently contribution to our ^fass and Reunion Fund. lived up to his promise to take his son fishing in disabled and don't seem to be able to do anything. ANTHONY J. R.VNSAVAGE, 1038 Shcr^vood St., Canada for a few weeks at that time. Another 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 43 
0*HORA a couple of years ago in Albany. ^'*-'iy^ is Philadelphia district manager for mechanical '\^ handling and you and he will probably meet again at the big affair. I hate to miss it." 
BILL KJVRL, Washington, D. C, writes, "Are you going to make the reunion? If you arc it would give me an incentive. I believe I read in the Alumnus that CHARLEY SCHMIED died with­in the last year or two. What's with O'Hora and Mulrej-? I did see Mulrey In Indianapolis in about 1937. I have been employed as a civilian engineer with the Xaw Department since 1938. JACK .VNDERSOX (E.'E. '31) works for C.A.A. ff? in the building next to ours. DICK DOXOGHUE ^* was a Xa\'al ofliccr In our Bureau (Ships) during the war and I saw Iilm frequently. There were dozens of otlicrs who were In Washington during the war off and on. Would like to have a long talk fest with you some time to get caught up on all such news." 
I hope that my meager effort has assisted you to sonic extent. I sincerely regret that I can not say at this time "I will be there." Please give my best regards to all the gang. I know that all of you w*ill have a wonderful time and I will jj^ be waiting to read all about it in the Alumnus. 
Sincerely, 
a\RL A. GAEXSSLEN 

BILL MORPHY could not foIIo%v his original plans and did not return. He sends his best and a cordial invitation to visit him in Mexico, D. F. ED FL\*NX* was transferred a year ago as Opera­tions Manager of the Swiss subsidiary- of Republic Aviation and Is living In Lugano for the next two years. After that he hopes to visit BUD GIES at Kallspell, Montana to get all the dope on the reunion he missed. ^ 
SOUTHERN COOK COUN'n'—Alumni Secretary* Janics E. Armstrong accepted club's 
Fmm DICK WALSH: "I have been looking for-^ 
check for the scholarship fund. Left to right: Msgr. Croarkin; Armstrong; Chairman Robert ward to the Reunion for a long time, hut unfortu­nately I am not unable to go as I will be in 
Cafarclla; and former president John Zarante. 
Havana on those da>-s in connection with my new work here. I have just been made Manager of the Commercial Products Sales Section which In­volves the export of eighteen of our pn>duct lines, interesting note conic from CvVRL GAENSSLEX. DICK WALSH, Schenectady, N. Y. says "I including X-Ray, Commercial and Milltar>" Elec­Dear Jim: certainly regret not being able to Join you on June tronics. Air-Conditioning, Construction Materials, 
Thanks ever so much for the many letters re­ninth weekend because I have been looking for­etc I have taken care of the class gift to the garding our Silver Anniversar>- Reunion. I have ward to this reunion for a long time. Unfortu­University as you suggested and under our Com­been holding off as long as possible in the hopes nately, I am making a swing around the Carib­pany's Corporate Alumnus Program the contribu­1 could tell you for sure that I would attend but bean and will be in Havana at that time. I have tion will be matched also by the General Electric -, nov\- it looks as if I *1I have to miss the best recently taken over the management of our Com­Company. Tliank you for the reminder. I know ^ Notre Dame reunion ever held. I have been mercial Products Section, exporting eighteen lines you will have a vcr>- good tune." ROY B.-MLIE looking forward to a grand get-together but at of equipment, such as X-ray, radar, electronic lias recentiv moved to 3118 Mlramar Dr., Sacra­prrseni my chances of participating in the festivi­transmitters, - etc Tills may give me a chance mento, Calif., and DR. MAURICE J. REGAX ties are rather remote. to run into some of our old friends 'South of has ctianged to 115 S. Franklin St., Wilkes-Barre, 
Xotre Dame men are not too plentiful out this the Border,' occasionally. I ran Into JOE Pa. L.\.MBERT REIXHART is now In Lawton, way so contacts are fc;v and far between. About eight or ten of us in this vicinity (no other '31ers) get together once in awhile. Now that I have the current list of the class of '31 with addresses I may be able to contact a few classmates during 
IvANSAS CITY— \ iargc group of alumni turned out for the Freshman Scnd-Ofi" Dinner on 
my travels in Montana, Oregon and Washington. Sept. 5. Head table (left to right): Terrencc Hartigan, 1955 Scholarship Winner, C. Craig Since 1933 I have been engineering with the 
Whitaker, '49, Scholarship Chairman, Ed Krall, 1956 Scholarship Winner, Dave Thompson, «
Geological Sur\'ey and the Bureau of Reclamation and have been stationed in Wyoming, Texas, Okla­*57, Campus Club President, Ed Aylward, '49, Vice President and Chairman of Dinner, Rus-^ homa, Colorado and Idalio. About the last 20 
sell J. Farrell, President, Father James A. Schwartz, Director of Catholic Youth Council, 
years of the time has been with the Bureau. I Iiave had the opportunity to go to Washington Kansas City, Rev. John Kilkullen, Director of Catholic Youth Council, Parkview, Mo., James 
but like the West too well to transfer. 
A. DeCoursey, Past President, Student Campus Club '54, John Massman, Past President, Stu­
Fern and I have one boy, Robert, 12 years old 

dent Campus Club '55. In the background are the freshman students as follows: Terry Con­
finishing the 7th grade in St. Joseph's here in Boise and looking fonx-ard to a stint at Notre way, Michael Dehaemer, Edward O'Malley, Terence Rcidy, John F. Saladino, Donald Sow­Dame in about five years. 
ers, John Thompson, Gerald Waters, Bruce Noyles, John Laney, Edward Boyle, Scholarship 
My father, E. A. Gacnsslcn, Green River, Wyo., 

passed away on February 25 at the age of 83. Candidate, Clifford Mullin, Scholarship Candidate, and Michael Dieter. Also, my Mother has been seriously ill and has been hospitalized or practically bed-ridden since 
m

last summer. She is past 80 so the chances of improWng x'ery' much are rather sHm. Our boy had to have surgery on an elbow in January' so it has been a rather Iiectic and expensive year. 
I am enclosing a copy of a tetter I sent to the fellows on the enclosed list. Also wrote a note to most of the fellows. I hope that most of thetn will be able to get back for the reunion. To date only two of the letters have been relumed unclaimed, as follows: 
RAY G. SMITH, 1158 Marion St. Denver 6, Colo. WILLIAM J. GIBBONS, Provo, Utah 

I have heard from: X. M. "BUD" GIES, Kali­spcll, Mont, who says he will be there and also stales that he has heard from TO.M GOLDEN, Anaconda, Mont, and he plans to make it. He said tliat ED SHEERcVN and family. Long Beach, Calif., had visited with them in Kallspell a couple of times in the past. 
HASKELL ASKEW, Oklalioina City, Okla., writes, "I plan to be there and I look for^vard to seeing you again and to being on the campus with all the good friends we had during scliool da>-s.* 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus. Nov.-Dec.y 1956 
RUDOLPH A. GOEPFRICH, '26 

You can't stop Rudy Gocpfricli from stopping you. He has been the sole or joint inventor in 97 patents and 12 ap­plications, and all of them relate to brakes and braking systems. 
9 Prior to attending Notre Dame he seiA'cd an apprenticeship in tool mak­ing. During certain periods of his col­lege life he worked in tool design for Bendix Products and for Davis Engi­neering Company. 
In 1927 Rudy returned to Bendi.x and was assigned to the new dcvelop­
^nent section of brake engineering. In 
*935 he was placed in chaige of the new development program and re­mained in that capacity until 1945 at which time he became Assistant Chief En^ncer of the Automotive Brake De­partment. In October, 1949 he became Chief Engineer of that department. 
^ Rudy is a member of the Society of 'Automotive Engineers and has in the past sen'ed on various committees such as the Parts and Accessories Activities Committee. He is presently Vice Chainnan of the Brake Steering Com­mittee of the National SAE and Chair­man of the Brake Subcommittee on 
•jBonding of Brake Lining. He is also a member of die St. Jo­seph Valley Engineers Club and the Indiana Professional Engineering So­ciety. He has presented numerous pa­pers on the subject of brakes before various groups. 
Rudy, Secretar}' of the '26 class, has _four children and nine srrandchildren. 
Oklahoma. rR;\XK BUTORAC has forsaken Wau­kcgan and moved to Ironton, Afinn. JOSEPH 
P. KELLY who has been on the unclaimed list for some time is now at 1155 Ocean Ave., Apt. l-II, Brooklyn 30, N. Y. JI.\I RORKE is now at 543 Imperials Ave., Westport, Conn, and VINCENT 
G. SULLIVAN can be reached at IG Nile Drive, Rochester 9, X. Y. JOHN. DORSCHEL will be out to see you promptly about a new car. BILL CINDER is now at 840 XIc\rthur Dr., Pittsburgh, Pa. I met TO.M COUGHLi«{ at the 
N.D. Club of Chicago golf outing this summer. He had hoped to make the reunion, but due to family graduations and a wedding had to miss it. ED Lj\NGENFELD sVnt a note and will be glad to see any of us at his fishing club. Ed brought abniit 40 pounds'' of smoked trout for a Friday afternoon appetizer, but somehow the management forgot to pick it up from the dining hall. Dear Jim; 
I feci that the entire class of '31 owes you a big 
vote of thanks for the wonderftil job you did on 
the Reunion. Everything went well—and there was 
a general spirit of geniutllchkeit. 
Really, for my part it could have continued for 
a week. It was real enjoyable talking to everyone 
again, and I wish that with you and a number of 
others I could have spent more time. (My typing 
may still show the effects of that bottled sunshine.) 
I hope you can come up to sec us. It would give 

me an opportunity to repay you in part. Maybe 
a couple of you fellows would like to get together 
and drive up for some fishing. I know that 
FR.AN1C HOLL.\ND, AL STEP.AN and DON 
OTOOLE would like to do so. Maybe Gil, Ray 
and some of the others may be interested, too. 
Thanks again for a great weekend. Regards. 
Sincerciv, 
ED 

FRvVNK HOLI./\ND enjoyed the Reunion and 
has , promised me a copy of his letter he later 
received from BOB KEND.ALL when he answers it. 
Dear Jim; 
What a week-end! I don't remember having a more enjoyable time. It would be impossible to list all the names of fellows I was delighted to sec again. The climax was driving BOB KENDALL back to Chicago and turning him over to the Santa Fe. I wish there was some w-av I could ade­quately thank you and JOHN McINTVRE for the tremendous job you two did. There arc lots of others, of course, to whom thanks are due, but ytm two deserve most of the credit. 
Please add the enclosed to the Mass Funds, ^\'hat 
would you think, Jim, of having a Memorial Mass 
said at regular, intervals for our deceased class­
mates? It could be monthly or tpiarterly depend­
ing un the budget. I am sure if the fund ever 
runs low that a slight reminder in the .Alumnus 
will put vou back in business. 
FR,\NK DR. BILL GADEK had a wonderful time, but had a near fatal aftermath upon his return home due (o a ruptured appendix June 14th. Bill had his wife and three wonderful children with hira for a campus visit. .•Vmong those I hadn't seen since the thirties was JOHN BELTON who lived In Howard Hall and who came up with R(\LPH DALTON. Both he and Ralph looked fine. Jim; Seems like I have been trying to drop you a line ever since Reunion time. I must say lliat it was a memorable week-end and I want to voice my opinion In a loud tone that you and your committee did a remarkable job. Most of us. In this busy world, forget to thank the fellows who bear the brunt of all this work and devote so many hours to the planning and work that goes into a well nm organi­zation like ours. JOHN BELTON and I certainly had a marvelous time and it was mighty fme being able to see and visit with all the old classmates at reunion time. FATHER BOURKE -MOTSETT ^%•as e.i­tremely sorry that he could not have made the reunion but I gave him a blow by blow- description of it. Have been trying to get TO.M MONAHi\N up here for a golf game but we alwa\*s seem to have conflicting dates. We are running a bus trip to Notre Dame for the Miclilgan State game so I might see you again at that lime. I again wish to extend to you my most sincere thanks for a job well done on the reunion and also during the years as the best class secretary of all the graduating classes. Please give my best to your swell wife and all your family. Sincerely R,\LPH J. DALTON Needless to sav we missed PADRE MOTSETT. GEORGE SPALDING, no>v a Brother, shed his 
FREDERICK P. GORE, 42 

Frederick Gore, President of R. H. Gore Company, nationwide insurance agents and brokers, Chicago, has re­cently organized the new multi-line in­surance company. Institutional Insur­ance Company of America, and is pres­ently acting as treasurer. 
After graduating from Notre Dame's College of Commerce with cum laude honors, Fred was commissioned an Ensign in the USNR in July of 1942, ser\'ed in the Amphibious force aboard an LST during Worid AVar II in Af­rica, Italy, India and Burma, and participated in the Normandy Invasion of France. 
He was released to inactive duty as a Lieutenant in 1946 and joined Has­kins and Sells, Certified Public Ac­countants. From Haskins and Sells he went with Barney L. Jennings, C.P.A., and tlien to the North American Com­pany as assistant treasurer. 
In 1949 he joined R. H. Gore Com­pany as treasurer and in 1951 was elected president. 
The new IICA stock insurance firm has a capitalization in excess of $1,000,000. 
The Gore family reads like a Notre Dame "Who's ^Vho." In addition to-Fred, his brothers, Robert, Jr., George and Theodore are also alumni while Mr. Gore, Sr., is a member of ND's College of Commerce Advisory Council. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 45 
••-^^ 

SOUTH CAROLINA—Universal Notre Dame Night was obser\cd w-ith Father Joyce, Uni­versity executive \ice-presidcnt as speaker. Left to right: Fr. Joyce, Rex Enright, Neil Worden and Mr. Joyce, father of the guest speaker. 
habit for a few da>-s and enjoyed seeing his old Xncnds. EARL BRIEGER sends Iits thanks: Dear Jim: 
Just a line to convc\- to >x>u my thanks and appreciation of the splendid job that you, John McInt^TC, and your committee did in handling the class reunion. Everything was arranged in sudi 
a. pleasant and enjoyable fashion that I do not sec how anyone who was there would not have been completely satisfied u-ith the arrangements. The turnout ^va5 splendid, and it is only unfortunate that the rest of the class could not be on hand. 
I certainly enjoyed xinting ^Wth all of the men who 'Were back for the reunion and wish to extend to you, John, and the committee my sincere thanks and appreciation of a ver>' pleasant weekend. 
Very truly yours, 
EARL W. BRIEGER (TexJ 

It was a real pleasure to see ^^•ALLY DeBAEXE again and looking well after his recent hospitaliza­tion. If anyone doubts that DON MacDONALD had a good time, I submit his letter: Dear Jim: 
Because I've been meaning to •write you anyway to tell you what a bang-up Job you and your com­mittee did on our Reunion, I thought this chain letter for charity would be an e:(cellent oppor­tunity to do tu-o good jobs at one time. 
Actually I've said just ^K>ut ever>'thing I have CO say already, but as regards the Reunion I might add that as eager as I was for the Reunion I still had no idea that it would turn out to be the absolutely great week-end it was. What a thrill just to mingle again with fellows you hadn't seen for 10, 15, 20 or 25 years; the extreme pleasure of seeing for the first time in 21 years my old roommate^ BILL COONEY, and my old handball buddy, FREDDIE RAHALM; playing golf with Freddie, BERT MALOXEY and my broad-shoul­<Icred, long-suffering (that day) partner, happy LARRY KRAL; and the six solid hours of laughter Saturday night with Bill, Freddie, WALT RID­LEY, DICK BAKER, PAUL GRANT, JIM BIG­GIN'S and many otlicrs. I'd forgotten how funny Walt Ridley can be just being himself, stimulated and goaded on by that learned humorist, Dick Baker. It's alvv*a>'s a pleasure to be ^^'ith CHARLIE MILTNER, my Reunion roommate, but I've been fortunate to have had that pleasure many times through the years since graduation. In fact Charlie, JACK LAUX, TAKIE TAECKENS and I had a pre-Rcuniun reunion in Flint just the week previous—and we thought w'e almost had Takie talked into going back to old N.D. for his first Reunion, but we weren't quite persuasive enough. All and all those four wonderful da^'s under and around the Lyons arch will live in­
46 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Nov.-Dec, 1956 
dclibly in our minds and hearts, giWng us many happy retrospective hours with that wonderful bunch of guys of '31—whicli surely must be Notre Dame's best class. 
Regards DON MacDONALD 

JIM and MARIE McQUAID sent a note thank­ing cvcr>*one for their many kindnesses to Jim, which helped to make such a memorable weekend for him. He has been ailing from multiple sclerosis since about 1936 when he received an injury while coaching his basketball team at Vin­cennes. Despite his ailment, and with the help of his grand wife, he lias managed to make several trips to the campus for \'arious activities. This year at the Layman's Retreat he \*-as the recipient of a check for $1,500. Contributed by those at­tending the Retreat to help in sending Jim and his uife on a pilgrimage to Loudres in his attempt to regain his health. 
BILL KARL enjo>-cd the reunion, but was a bit bushed after a 14-hour drive to Washington, D. C­BUD TOUHY thought c\-eryone looked mighty good after 25 hectic years and is eagerly looking for%v-ard to the 1961 Reunion. Thanks for them kind 'Words, pardner. 
CLARK BENKENDORF, my Morrissey Hall roommate had a graduation and other appoint­ments which pre\-ented his appearance until Sun­day morning. Clark looks well and should be appearing on the campus more frequently now that his son is a freslunan at N.D. Speaking of sons of 1931 Alumni now at Notre Dame, I would like to hear from any of the '31 men who now have sons at school. This I could list in tlit Alumnus in addition to getting some news for our column. 
GENE COYLE, missing at the Reunion, has been appointed District Director of the Internal Revenue Ser\-icc for -the Buffalo, New York office. Gene was originally from Chicago and then went on to Columbus, Ohio as supervisor of Collections in the Ohio-Michigan area. He is married and has two children, Mar>' Celeste, 15, and John, 11. I had a note from JOE DUNNE, Deming, N. M., who sends his best to RAY COLLINS, DON O'TOOLE, VINC BUSCH and many others. He promises a letter for our column and sa>-s unkind things about JIM MULVANEY for not writing him. PAUL FEHLIG mentioned that JOE YOCH has been having some eye trouble recently. 
Rumor has it that BILL McALEER is an enter­tainer in Altoona, Pa. Sue Leahy, daughter of FRANK, was named grand prize winner in a nationwide teen-age essay contest sponsored by Extension magazine. TOM and KATHIE ASHE missed a last minute visit at Lyons Hall Sunday afternoon. However, they did get to Chicago u*_ catch their plane for the coast. A slight dela*:^ %%-ith BILL BERGEN and his bride almost put them on the night trip. 
ANDY KATA received a phone call from homr June 10th while still on the campus that hb-Mother died suddenly. PAUL DUNCAN's father died in early June after a prolonged illness. It is a sad duty to tell of the death of DR. FRANCIS 
J. "DOLLY" GANNON of Cleveland who died July 9th. He had been ill with cancer for some lime, Dolly was sorely missed at the Reunion, but I hope he managed to enjoy the souvenirs folders signed by evcr>*one with a message. A finaM act Sunday afternoon was a trip to the Grotto to pray for him. Word has arrived of the death of JAMES \S\ HANLEV of Deer Park, OJiio. 1 have no information as yet and would appreciate hearing from someone in his area. Our sympathy and prayers go to all. Mass cards for deceased classmates are in the mail. 
I have about 200 holy cards listing our deceased classmates for those who did not make the Re­union. If you will drop me a line 1 \rill be happy to mail a card for your prayer book. s 
Many thanks to BILL LEAHY for his "Fruit oi« One's Labor" idea which resulted in so many gifts awarded as door prizes at our Friday Night Class Dinner. John Mclntyrc did a fine job of taking care of the gifts and at one time had a mimeo­graphed list of donors for distribution. So many more items arrived that it was of no \*alue and too late to run off another one. We had everything from an adding machine, silver plated to a vacuum cleaner. It was an excellent and successful idea and thanks again from all the class to all the donors. 
Although over 200 attended the Reunion our^ Lyons Hall collection uas cut off late Friday night* after 160 had contributed to the Fund. I intend to get off a letter giring a breakdown of income and exyense but do wish you to know that we have $500 left towards our next Reunion. Thanks again to all of you who helped in the promotion and running of our successful 25-year reunion. Please tr>- to send a ne%*-s letter from time to time as I do like a little help in filling the '31 colunm. 
Flash! FRANK LE.\HY is host and will handle special sports features^ of the new "Ray Anthony Show" which began on October 12. Sponsored by the Plymouth Division of the Chrysler Corporation.^ it is a full hour musical series on the ABC tele­vision network and scheduled for 10 p.m. EDT on Friday nights. 
193 2  J^™^ ^* Collins  
^  3336 Kenmore Road  
Shaker Heights, Ohio  
'25 Ut AR  
Reunion  
June  I  
I  i-e-9  I  

JOHN KRAMER was in Cleveland recently for the Materials Handling Association convention, 3nd ^ bVought along his two older sons, John and Mtke.Q John told me iliat LEO FAGAN was recently made president of the Gradan Steel Company in Tulsa. Leo had been comptroller of the company for many years. 
John also mentioned that he sees TED HALPIN regularly, and TEX SIMMONS evcr\' time he gels to Dallas. 
NAPPY NAPOLITANO is officially appointed as Director of Intramural Athletics on the campus this fall, according to MOOSE KRAUSE. Nappy has been doing most of, the work of this program ^ for some time, as well as teaching phj-sical cduca-Q tion, and is now being given official recognition. 
JIM WARDELL was in Cleveland for the meet­ing of the National Petroleum Association, and we had a very pleasant evening after a surprise meet­ing. He is the Safes Manager of the American Can Company, and uas here to check with all the major oil companies. 
JIM DUBBS' oldest son, Pat, will be a freshman on the campus this fall. 
HUGH BELL and his two oldest sons, and JACK COLLINS were at CHUCK ROHR's picnic for the Cleveland Club recentlv. 
H£RB GIORGIO, our class president, again 

tvants to remind everybody that it is not too early to plan on the 25th Reunion next year. The prc-Iiniinar>- work is already being done to make it outstanding. 
A note trom HERB GIORGIO, president of the Class, again asks that each member of the Cla&s begin making preparations for the 25th Retmion in June. This should be a tremendously big event for us, and Herb warns that it is not too early to make vacation plans, etc., to coincide . wttlt that week-end. He is forming a committee to 
B:ontact each member directly, and this will be done in the next few* weeks. 
DICK SULLIVAN, our eastern v-ice-president, has been nominated for the Alumni Board of Directors, and a note from the Rochester Club asked that I mention this and urge eacli of you to vote for him. Dick has been very active in alumni and other Catholic activities in that area for many years, and would scr\*e well in this position. 
JACK SCANLOX reports that he recently had luncli With ALEX WILSON on the campus to talk over old and current track meets. He said tliat 
Bone of AIcx*s daughters had won a scholarship to St. Mary's College, and not for track either. 
It \%'as with deep sadness and regret that we learned of the recent death of NORB CHRIST­MJ\ N -in Green Bay, Wis. A fine gentleman,' scholar and athlete, he will be sorely missed by . all who knew him. We wish to extend the 5>Tn­pathy of the Class to his widow and children, and ask that he be remembered In your prayers. 
1 93 3 Joseph A. McCabe 632 Forest Avenue h River Forest, Illinois 
S
IT'S GETTING LATE FOR '58. This is our vvar cry as we head toward the end of 1956 and look forward to only a year and a half before wc gather under the Dome to celebrate the passage of 25 years since we last officially gathered there as undergraduates. A year and a half . . . that's a long time to swim underwater, but pretty scant In whicli to rally some stirring support and cold hard cash for a class presentation to the University as a s>-mboI of our regard for Notre Dame, our college mother. For us of Notre Dame there should be a spirclal incentive to honor our school . . . because the title and the hallowed ground speak of more than mere education, or "fair • college years." Notre Dame is- the title of our Blessed Mother—no less real because She is Blessed. \Miat kind of sons are we to return after a quarter century of her guidance and blessings . . . >vlth empty hands? You'll read two contrasting fetters. One, from JACK HOYT, co-chairman unih JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY of our reunion, has a justi­fiably reproachful note on the lack of news in our last column. As a matter of fact ye author was ^late with the column .. . as a matter of worse fact, there was no news in it. I can only cite the one basic defense whicli we editorial slaveys used to have when the managing editor stormed out of his lair following appearance, of a dull edition of the old Chicago Times . . . "Wc don't MAKE the news.'* The same is true of your 'umble secretary'—if you tlic public don't contribute . . . well, you must be pretty tired of the prosody I've had to compose to fill up a little space. There are two pOMtlve steps each one of you can take to get this 25-ycar-ball rolling: 
1. Send a contribution to treasurer JOHN C*\­

> HILL, Cahill Electric Company, Dixon, 111. . . . and John has a great letter as a mighty effort to stir up some spirit. 
2. Follow John's example—send a note of some kind to my address, 632 Forest Ave., River Forest, and help light a fire under the non-writers in the class—ac least t**c can keep them readingl 
DO BOTH OF THESE THINGS NOW. Without further ado, here Is Hoyt's letter: Enclosed is some recent correspondence. I was somewhat disappointed that the last issue of tlie 
I Alumnus contained so little about our Class. 
' I xvish you would give some thought to getting some reunion suggestions from various of our members. You know who the regulars are and those you can depend upon. Would you sound them out and If you have any replies will you send them along to me prior to publication so that I can go over them with GEORGE ROHRS. 
Tliank you. Jack—your point is noted and my answer is given above. 
Jack was also kind enough to enclose a carbon of a letter he sent to our notable classical and clerical classmate, FATHER CHICK SHEEDY, 
^ C.S.C., better known to some of our classmates' sons as Dean of Arts and Letters. Here's Jack's letter to Father Shecdy: Dear Father Sheedy: 
I have been working with GEORGE ROHRS and JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSEY in connecuon wth plans for our 23lh Reunion in July of 1938. I have read all of the material that George has accumu­lated and I have taken particular note of your suggestion with respect to a proposed gift of a modern painting for the i\rt Gallery. This sugges­tion has been circulated among the \'arious class officers for comment, etc. 
I have been recently advised that one of the customs in the new Art Galler>' is to feature "traveling exhibits'* and that the University- might uclcomc a gift from the class of 1933 to assist in the traveling exhibit plan. My personal opinion is that it might be easier to get financial assistance for said plan than to stir up Interest in a gift of a modem painting. 
I wish you Av-ould give this sonic consideration at an early date and let me have the benefit of your thoughts. 
/\nd now for John Cahill's great letter. I trust you'll agree with mt—it's one of the finest we've had, and the fact that on a long trip he would still take the time and energy to make all the visits he notes ~ and then the further time and energy to sit down and write about them proves he's a Notre Dame man all the way. Dear Joe; 
I headed for the Southwest u-ith the Idea in imnd to contact as many classmates as I could and urge them to help us with the '33 Class Fund. The first place I slopped was in Mexico, Mo., and had a very nice visit with HAROLD (Cy) POHL­MEYER and his family. By the way he said that it xx-as the first time he had been called "Cy" since he left school and did not want to be reminded of It. The next stop was with LUCIEN KE.MPF at Lindsay, Okla. Wc stayed a couple of days with the Kcmpf's and I am telling you wc had a won­derful time. Besides having a good business he has a beautiful home and a lovely family. I do hope to see them this Fall at one of the games and I am expecting them to come to DLxon. Of course, our trip to the SoWest would not be complete unless we went to Lampasas, Texas to sec FATHER JAMES DONNELLY, CS.C. Joe, we live the life of RiJcy compared to this classmate. I was there two days and he was on the go every minute. I do not believe we visited with Hin more than ten minutes at any one time. The Lord has a special place in Heaven for this man. From there wc went to Houston. The only *33er I visited was WILLIAM GARRETT. He left N.D. after a couple of years but is still very active in the N.D. Club of Houston. He has a large family and has been very successful in his ranching, rice and oil. He inquired about many fellows and has promised to see us in *58. I called THOMAS HUGHEN but we were not able to get together. He is still practicing law and says that he will take time off to be with us, too. I forgot to tell you that while going through Tulsa I called &1AR­ION BLAKE but did not see him. While in New Orleans I was able to contact and visit by phone with AVILLLVM DREUX. He told me that JULES DE LA VERGNE was so busy designing all the new buildings In New Orleans that he 'Was on 
the go all the time. I tried to call him but was unsuccessful-
When I arrived homo I was happy to look at my mail because your plea for funds was re­ceived quite well. I had the following checks for deposit: 
M. J. FOLEY, Vancouver, B. C-_ _$ 25.00 
E. A. GAUSSELIN, Chicago, lU. _ 25.00 
A. T. CAVENDER, Puerto Rico _ 15.00 
Previously received but not reported: 
L. KE.MPF, Lindsay, Okla 
W. M. HAWTCES, U. S. Navy 
Collected at '53 Reunion— 
Disbursements: FR. J. DONNELLY, C.S.C., Masses for Deceased Members of Class 
Cash in City National Bank, Dixon, 111 
5.00 10.00 
80.00 
. 195.00 
5275.00 
50.00  $225.00 

This above amount is a long way from our goal so if you can get the fire under some of our Classmates ma>'be we can make our 25th Reunion a banner one both for the Class and also for the University. 
JIM GEREND stopped in to see me a few weeks ago. He has been worlung in Rockford, 
Participants in the dedication of the Indiana Toll Road included Father Hesburgh and two alumni who are prominent as Chairmen of the Pennsylvania and Ohio Turnpikes. Franklin McSorley, *25 (left), is head of the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission while James Shock­ncssy, '28, is Cfaalnnan in Ohio. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec.j 1956 47 
IllinoU but had asked for a transfer to Milwaukee. 
Ws. He is with the Social Security Dept. of 
the Federal Government, 
Would cnjoj* hearing from some of the fellows, 
especially if the>' enclose a check and become a 
DOLLAR A YE.\R MAX. 
Thanks a million, John . . . and come on, '33's 
. . . follow John's example and get out a letter. 
And follow the example of those other real N.D. 
Men who contributed—JOE FOLEY, ED GAUS­
SELIX, A. T. aWENDER, LUCIEX KE.MPF 
and BILL HAWKES—and GIVE! 
I don't think tlicrc's an>-thing better I can do 
than to show you all a copy of a letter bur prcsi­
<lcnt, George Rohrs, has sent to all officers in the 
interest of stirring up class enthusiasm about our 
25th Reunion . . . now approacliing fast! 
Here's a letter from George Rohrs: 
Dear Class Officers: 
As old Brotlier Zip used to say about a week 
before exams—"come on lads, it*5 time to go to 
work,", and I guess we all agree it is time for the 
1933 Class officers to prepare to go to ^vork for the 
big event—the 25th Class Reunion in June, 1958— 
now only two years away. Time to start getting 
up the steam but not so far away that we will 
lose momentum before the big day. 
JOE McCABE and I have corresponded and 
talked of Reunion plans often and now we take 
this opportunity* to kick ofT the ball through the 
medium of this letter written to all ofHcers and 
intended to solicit your help on an increasingly 
active scale from here on in. 
Joe and I \isualize three big problems that arc 
Co be attacked first. 
1.
 Tlic Class gift to Notre Dame. 

2.
 The selection of our 25lh Reunion General Chairman or Co-Chairman to work under the Class officers and coordinate the work of local and state chairmen. (Xow named: Jack Hoyt and John O'Shaughnesse^-.) 

3.
 Adoption of a financial plan to meet the needs of the Class in carr>-ing out its necessary functions and duties. 


For your guid:mce and direction in tlic considera­tion of our problems our general thought at the moment is that our Treasurer, John Cahill, with his assistants might fa\x>r a double objective— hammer away at a t^vo-year drive on Increased contributions by the Class to the Xotre Dame Foundation—Gift. No, 1—and devise a plan for soliciting extra monies (5I,000-$2,000) for an Art Prize Gift, suggested by classmate Father Charles Sheedy, no\v Dean of Arts and Letters. Cahill, of course, faces the other important job, i.e., to come up u-ith our necessary operating funds to attract all members of the Class to the wt>rk. Shall it be dues or what have you? 
Regards, George 
Don't forget also to remember your classmates 
in your prayers and rosaries. The living and 
<lead—we all need each other's prayers . . . and 
they'll get a special hearing from X'otrc Dam<.— 
our Mother; ,: 
XEWS XOTES—FRED FAYETTE, '33, an at-tome>- practicing in Burlington, Vt., showed him­self a' Xotrp Dame man in action when he filed action on behalf of the tov^-n of South Burlington seeking to compel expenditure of $1,548 from tlic "Vermont "stale educational fund as reimbursement for money spent by the town for tuition for pupils attending pri\-ate (Catholic) scliools. The action .•was brought under laws passed in 1868 and ob­served until 1955. 
•
 Another classmate, REV. BROTHER ARTHUR 

A.
 LOFTUS, recdvcd his doctorate in philosophy from Fordham University June 14, 1956. REV. JOHN D. GALLAGHER has taken on 


= the additional task of organizing tlic glee club at the College for Men of tlie University of San DIego, where he Is a member of the music faculty. Father Gallagher has been transferred to St. Charles Borromco parish, 2802 Cadiz St., San Diego 10, Calif. 
10 3 A T. Edw'ard Carey 18843 Ingle wood Avenue Rocky River, Ohio 
J 0 3 c Franklyn C Hochreiter 
• ^^^ 1327 Pentwood Road Baltimore, Maryland 
We have just gotten off tlic long distance tele­
phone talking to Harry Wlsmer and lining him up 
to MC the Batlimorc N^otrc Dame-Xa\y Rally 
in the Hotel Emerson ballroom and now to the 
'35 class notes. 
There was no column for the last trip to press 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 
because we had nothing to write. But this time we have an interesting revi\*al from a long lost soul. Aside from his letter and some correspond­ence with your class officers and the'Alumni Office, we have a pretty drj* well. But we'll do a little more cr>-ing at the end of this dispatch. 
On June 29 one of our men who dropped right out of existence sat down to his t>'pc%\'ritcr and decided to repiv to something wc wrote about him last spring. Tl'iat's right—MAURICE TOMBRAG­EL. Maury gives as his iuldress, 4061 Wilkinson Avenue, Studio City, California. About his address he said, "Don't let the 'Studio Cit\*' fool you. It's just a post office address. We're next to Sher­man Oaks which is next to Van N^uys, whicli is next to Encino and so on. Thc^-'rc all just over the pass from HolI>-wood." 
Because wc think that j-ou will all enjoy reading Maur\''s wonderful four page letter, wc quote It to you as written. Here goes: 
"A friend of mine brought over a Xotre Dame Alumnus last night in which I was mentioned as being among the missing. Half missing, any^ray, in that you caught one of my Earps and figured I must be in Hollj-wood. It's nice to know that somd>ody back East saw and remembered. 
"Yes, I am working in HolIy%%'ood and have been since 1936 when I came out here as a reader for Universal Studios. I began writing for pictures when I sold that same studio a story back in '38, and have been working for pictures and/or tele­vision ever since, taking time out only between jobs and for a nine month stint with the Xa\y In tlic Pacific from '44 to M6. 
"I was married in 1940 and liavc two children, girls, ages thirteen and fifteen. The younger one goes to grade school at St. Francis de Sales Parish in SJierman Oaks, San Fernando Valley where we live. It's some sLx miles from Holl>-wood proper. The older girl goes into Hollywood to Immaculate Heart HIgli Scliool. 
"Wc arc probably the most conservative people We know in or out of show business in that w*c have lived here in this house since 1946 when my wife built the place out of sheer dccring-do and necessity because my little family was cxicted from the rented rear house where I had left them when I went marching off to war. It's a small place that we've added to and worked over and diangcd the face of far too many times. But our roots have sunk so deep it tears our hearts out just to think of moving. And we are also the only people left without a sxWmmlng pool. Instead, we're about to build a shanty up in Lake Arrow­head; that's in tlie mountains two hours from here. 
*'As to how I make a IMng: I made it at the movio business, as I mentioned, from *38 until *50 when television mme along and saved me. Up 
Captain Henr>- T. Gannon, '34, has been re­cently transferred to the Pentagon. He is a physician and formerly taught in the Naval School, Ne\\T>ort, R. I. Henry is residing with his wife and four children at Falls Churrh. Va. 

until then I'd done about fifty moving pictures^ mostly sub-B dogs that you have probably nc^'e^i run a-foul of, for wlilcli I am grateful. It had its moments but mostly It was suffering. The War probably saved me the first time and TV the second time. 
"I got into TV eariy with the 'Wild Bill Hlckok' show. I did some 25 out of the first 52 pictures. In between times I did 'Racket Squads,* *Bill Baker's,' a *Soldicr of Fortune* and so on. But mostly I hit the stride with the Westerns. I probably have more credits on more western TV scries than any other guy in Hollywood. This kinfl'| of writing must be what pulp writing used to be*-' before the market fell apart- Besides doing the Earp that you saw, I did three others for last year's group of 39—Fred Brennan Iiaving done 29 of that series for which he has been principal writer. 
"I did the same sort of chore for a series called 'Stories of the Century* starring Jim Dans—21 out of 39—and it won the Emmy In the Adventure Class for *55. Since then I did the pilot and six out of 26 for an as yet unrek-ased series called 'Frontier Doctor* for Uie same outfit that dirkTj 'Stories,' a subsidiary of Republic Pictures. Sand^ wiclied in among the 'Doctors* are some more 'Wyatt Earps' and another new and as yet un­released series to be called 'The .Adventures of Jim Bowie.* Tliat one is definitely set for ABC on Friday nights beginning sometime in September. On top of all that N-OU can throw in some Kit Carsons, Gene Autr>"s, fVnnlc Oakleys, Western Marshals, 'Tales of the Texas Rangers' and you have the story of my life, sir.. 
"And it's a nice life, dull but pleasant. 1 free lance, work at home where my only compulsion to u-ork Is my lazy conscience, my insatiable gree ^ and the pleading outstretched hands of my children.^ I have a small office out behind my house where my family only disturbs me when they want something. But I love being disturbed. Writing is a lonesome business and plenty of hard work— though I can never convince my friends of that, possibly because I never let them catch mc working, which might be any time of the day from six til midnight, or sometimes not at all. 
"But enough of mpelf. Tliere are several old friends I'd like to know about and I think you can help me there. 
"First off: BILL KEXXEDY. You mention hinw in your article as tipping you off as to the where-^ abouts of others, but you don't mention where Bill is. I tried to find him when I \«'as in X'ew York for tlirce months In '42-'43, writing training films for the Army. I called up just about every newspaper In town—even tried the family of his girl friend Ava Ottman, since then his wife, I under­stand. Why I lost such complete track of him I'll never know. And If he ever saw my name on the screen, the stinker never wrote. Others have readied mc by that means. (Let's get on the beam with a letter. Bill!) 
"Tlie other one is JERRY DOYLE (cartoonist^ Doyle). ' Wc listened to the Louls-Braddock figh^ in a saloon on the Chicago South side just before I came West and we excliangcd a few letters when he went to Xew York. I heard rumors that he finally gave up and went to Texas to marry that beauty that he always knew he was going to marry an\nvay. Is that so? (He did, Maur>!) 
"While In Xcw York that time in '43 I looked up JERRY .MERGARDT In Brewster; X. Y., took my pregnant wife and little daughter out to meet his growing family. Later he and the *Mrs.' came into Xew York and wc met GEORGE HILL and his wife and had an evening on the town. Last 10 heard of George Hill was from Amarillo, Texas"* where he is working for the du Pont plant there. I often wonder what happened to his brother CHARLIE, he wanted to be an obstetrician. (Have no Idea or info on Charlie, ^Iaur%-!) 
"As for some 'Joes* I know about that maybe you don't: JACK RJ\IXE Y and his second wife dropped in here early last Fall. He's a restau­ranteur. Establishes eating places and sells them when they get going. ^\'•orked his way slowly through the Midwest and Arizona thusly and w-as looking the airline field o\-cr here with intcntion.'t^ of' going back East someplace and catering for an airline. Seems to have done pretty well at it by and large though he was definitely on the prowl for something when he came by here. \\'e were supposed to hear from them again and never did. Moved on to a hungrier place, I suppose. 
**A neighbor and fellow parishioner who turned out to' be a good friend, and whose girl goes to school w*itli mine, is ED FARLEY of the class of *S4. I never knew him at Notre Dame, nor does his picture in the Annual ring, a bell—possibly because he had more hair then and, as he tells^ 

,amc, he was seldom seen about campus m that he 
^^payed indoors all the time playing bridge. "Another friend of *3t is BILL NEWBERRY, the architect. He was still around in '35 and *36 getting a Masters and that's when I met him. (I stayed on m '36. you know, aiming for a Masters in that Mediae\-al School and never got it because I could ne\'cr read Latin even after six years of it.) "Bill is an Art Director at Universal Studios. Tliat's the guy who reads the script and designs the sets. His career has been little short of 
rAemarkablc. He came out in '36, about the same 
•^imc I did, worked for a year drawing plans for tract houses in Pasadena and hating it. His ambi­tion was to do drafting for a studio MI 1 sneaked him into Universal for wliicli I was reading at the time, introduced him to my boss who intro­duced him to the head of the Art Department. Bill u-as hired tlie next day (that Notre Dame Masters impressed them) and he's been there ever since, working up from draftsman to Assistant Head of the Department to Art Director, where he now has shows of his own. 
^ "Next time you see Universal Pictures, look for bill' s name. Besides working faithfully for old U-Pics for twenty years, Bill has rabed a family <if seven—two of them scLs of twins. Raised? I don't mean that. He's still buhy. the youngest being around six. His oldest girl i.* a month younger than- my older girl and both arc in the same class at Immaculate Heart. 
"Incidentally, ED FARLEY*s oldest boy just ^larted at Xotrc Dame. Indiana, last year. The funnv thing is: neither he nor I feel anv older! 
"Another guy is artist HUGO .MELCHIONE. He used to give piano recitals there. Roly-poly 
Auy . Saw a lot of him when I lirst came out 
^n d until after the war. Then he drifted up the coast and down the coast, scene-designing for x'arious little theater groups and living the enviable life of the dilettante. Last I heard he is teaching drama and running a little theater in Palo ^Vlto. Stanford University, I believe. I think he got disgusted with nit—the kind of trash I write. Hugo is an artist. I don't think he likes people who work at art for money. But I don't claim what I do is art. Craft? 
"Ah, it takes a lot of years of craft to do it easily and smoothly. Tiicy never taught that at 
^'olrc Dame. But I was a dedicated man once— 
^liuut two years—until I got used to the world. The hardest thing I ever had to do was to get used to the world after leaving Notre Dame. To this day, when things get tough, I dream I'm back at Notre Dame. Simple Freudian escape. Back to the sound-proof, shock-proof womb of Notre Dame. 
"That's all the men I can think of just now. 

*'If you know of anybody that's coming out this way for a vacation, have them ring me up. This is a lousy town for showing anybody around in, for there's nothing to see, but I can show them the view of the Valley from the top of Mulholland 
^brivc, and maybe have them over for hamburgers 
^n d a bull session. "The phone number is POplar 1-8262. *'If you have any added questions or want any 
leg work dune out this way, let me hear. I'm a pour letter writer. I don't write often. But when I flo—duck!" 
It goes without saying—when Maur\* does write he gives it his ALL! And we appreciate it. Now you realize why we wanted to quote the whole letter to you. Tliai Tombragel guy has had a really fasclnatin' career. .-Vud. if it makes >-ou 
^*el any better, Maury, we don't have a swimming 
^oo l either. So there! 
We are certainly glad that we happened to catch yoiu- Earp that night last Spring, Maury. And the whole family hxs been watching for your by­line ever since. It may be T\'^ pulp—but it's got *em watchin' by the millions, so "more power to you!" And thanks a million for all the dope you sent on yourself and the other men. (Class of '34, please copy!) 
Incidentally, Maury, we are asking the Alumni Oilice to send you two years' back numbers of the 
^lumnus when we file this column, and to be sure that you are on the mailing list for the future. If you can get all of our stories back through '54-'55, maybe you can catch up on a lot of your friends we wrote about as the 20th Reunion was coming up. Hope you get some response from the guys as the result of this rewrite. 
.^nd now to an unhappv note—the death of FRANK McGUIRE—«n July 26. BILL BERN­BROCIC wrote a letter to tJie Alumm Oflicc and sent us a copy. Bill said that Frank died in his sleep at his home, 2015 Kenilworth Avenue, Wl­
^ucttc, Illinois, of a coronary attack. He is 
CAMILLE F. GRAVEL, JR., '35 

When Louisiana went for Stevenson at the Democratic National Conven­tion it was Camiile F. Gravel who cast the vote. It was an honor that he had rightfully earned. 
After leaving Notre Dame Camille studied law at L.S.U., and then went on to Catholic U. whence he graduated in 1939. Chief among liis numerous legal positions have been: Assistant City Attorney, Alexandria. Louisiana, 1945 to 1948; President Alexandria Bar Association 1949 to 1950; and At­torney for Louisiana Tax Commission 1949 to 1952. He was admitted to practice law before Louisiana and Fed­eral Courts including the United States Supreme Court, and is senior partner in the law firm of Gravel, Humphries, Sheffield & Mansour. 
Camille has been a member of the Democratic State Central Committee for Louisiana since 1948, and Demo­cratic National Committeeman for Louisiana since 1954. He was the rep­resentative of 12 southern states on the Executive Committee of die Demo­cratic National Committee, and a dele­gate and Chairman of the Louisiana Delegation at the national convention. 
He is associated with Catholic Chari­ties and the local Catholic newspaper, is a Fourth Degree Knight of Colum­bus and was invested Knight of St. Gregor>' by Pope Pius X H in 1954. 
He and his wife Katherine have ten children. 
survived by his widow, Mary Ida, and a son, Eugene. Frank was employed as Chief Counselor of the Market Center Quartermaster Corps In Chicago. 
To Mrs. McGuirc and her son, Eugene; the class of '35 extend their deepest sympathy, and assure her that Frank will remain in our prayers. 
We would also like to extend to the family of LEO FOMENKO in South Bend the condolences of the class on his death during the Summer. ;Wc have no details about Leo. 
Your class president is planning a meeting of his officers over the weekend of tlie Oklahoma game, on October 27. Their agenda will be dc\'oted to plans for the 25th Reunion of our class. 
All the officers, that is the president, JIM HAM­ILTON; the four veeps. ANDY MAFFEI, ED­V.ANHUISSELING, CA.MILLE GR.\VEL and PHIL PURCELL; and the treasurer, DAN YOUNGERM.AN, will be there, in addition to BILL RYAN and PAUL FERGUS. Unfortunately, your Scribe is going to be tied to -Baltimore put­ting the finishing touches on the Xa\y weekend of which he is General Chairman, and also trying to sell his house. We arc particularly unliappy about missing the meeting because of Eloisc and BILL RYAN's cocktail party and dinner on Friday evening. Tlie Ryan food and drinks arc strictly tops—and we know! When this reaches you the meeting will have been held and we will be waiting to hear the results. 
TIic report from the treasurer is that as of July he had collected $498.00 from 104 *35ers. How about the rest of us getting on the dues bandwagon? We understand that another letter to the class is in the making. Look for it! 
In September we heard, along with all other class secretaries, of a change in policv- regarding the printing of news notes which the Alumni ofHcc receives from industrial magazines, corporation re­leases, daily press and other miscellaneous sources. The Editor has been Including these blurbs him­self but in the future he will send them to the secretaries so that may put their own style to the writing. 
We have received our first such release on JOE CONLON, who has been appointed Manager of the Rensselaer, N. Y. plant of General Aniline and Film Corporation. Joe has been associated with the plant for almost 20 years, holding x'arious. executive positions in all phases of research and manufacturing. A tip of the class hat to you Joe! 
And you all saw LOU HRUBY's picture as a Spotlight Alumnus in the last issue of the Alum­nus. If you missed it, Lou is now Manager of the Western Sales District of G. E, Lamp Divi­sion's newly created Photolamp Department. We are all cheering for you in your new promotion! Congfratulations, Lou! 
While we arc on the congratulations theme, it seems appropriate to mention a few Colonels, Louisiana Colonels, that is, sub! Tlirough the good offices of Colonel Camille Gravel. National Democratic Committeeman from the Pelican State, the follmring received their commissions on the Governor's staff during the summer: PHIL HEIN­LE, R.-VY BRODERICK, BILL RYAN and FR.ANK HOLAH.AN. Your Scribe was also similarly hon­ored. 
.•\nother note on Camille. We suppose you all saw him, as we did, cast the Louisiana ballot on the floor of the Democratic National Convention. That was our Veep from the South! (Ed. Note: Look for Camille as a '"Spotlight .-Mumnus" In this issue—equally impressive is a pic of his attrac­tive family, also in the current edition.- JC.) 
Incidentally, we just about called the play on Camillc's attempt to contact BOB B.ARRY some months back. In Camille's own words, here it is—• 
**Whcn I got a list from the University .. . I %vrote the State Police and Mayor's offices through­out the countr>' on Democratic National Commit­tee stationer^' with the hope that I could get some assistance in locating some of our lost brethren. The venture was semi-successful as we were able to locate perhaps 8 or 10 members of the class who had not heretofore responded to our. appeals for information. I am vcr>* hopeful that we will be able to have an up-to-date Class Roster a year or two before our 25-year Reunion , and probably will write a similar letter in the next year or two.*' 
.-\nd that brings us to the final note of interest —the new addresses of some of our men. Here they are: 
JOE BUCCI, 2006 South "J " Street, Oxnard, California. DAN CUNHA, 1105 Fifth Avenue, Watcr\lict, 
N. Y. 
PAT FISHER, 915 Indiana BIdg., 120 East Mar­ket Street, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1936 49 
TOM FL\7s•^% 239 Mcrcliant Street, Honolulu, Hau'ali. DAN HENRY, 14034 Woodrow Wilson, Detroit, Michigan. DICIC HYDE, 3338 Major Avenue, Minneapolis 22, Minnesota. Ah MCCARTHY , 1721 Hampton Road, Grossc Pointc Woods 26, Michigan. CHARLIE McNICHOLS, 336 North Mx<«n .-Vvc­nuc, Chicago 44, Illinois. BILL MURR.AY, 737 Filip Road, Los Alios, California. JOHN PORCORO, 133 Monroe Street, Garfield, New Jersev. TOM PROCTOR, 139 East 94th Street, New ^•orfc 28, Nc^v- Yorjc. WES STREHL, 2714 Kimball Street, Memphis 
14. Tennessee. JOE BEACH, 219 Sycamore Drive, Metairie, Louisiana. TED HOSLVSKI, 3124 Soutli .Main Street, South Bend 14, Indiana. RAY .MARGRETT, 3044 Blair Avenue, .Ashta­
bula, Ohio. JOHN RY.\N, 5807 Ccbcrt Avenue, Parma, Ohio. BILL CAS.\ZZA, 374 South Pearl Street, Albany, 
New York. MAT WINKEL, .\merican Smelting and Refining Co.. Garfield, Utali. DICK BALLMAN, 5541 North Kent Street, Mil­waukee 17, Wisconsin. ADAIR BARLOW, 3 Kensington Lane, Brook­side Park. Newark, Delaware. JOE BITTNER, 655 Wcsibur^- Avenue, Wesibur>-, Long Island, New York. PAUL BRUMBY, c/o American Embass\-, Tel Aviv. Israel. ED CALDWELL, 8517 Rivcrview Road, Brccks­ville, Ohio. JOHN CARESIO, 9334 South Lawndalc .\venue. Evergreen Park 42, Illinois. JACK COOG.AN, 10 Joseph Court, Fanuingdalc. Long Island. New York. PAUL FERGUS, 120 Franklin Place, South Bend, Indiana. JOHN FITZP.ATRICK, 212 Dole Avenue, Crystal Lake, Illinois. JORDAN HARGROVE, 511 North Village Ave­nue. Rockville Center, New York. \7C KURZUEG, P.O. Box 10026, Jefferson Branch, New Orleans, Louisiana. JOHN LAFFERTY, 714 Wolcott, Philadelphia 18, Penns>ivan!a. JOHN LIVELY, 64 Dcne>- Drive, RFD No. 2, PcekskiM, New York. JOE MYRON, 144 Kennington Road S., Gar­den City, New York. DICK PREZEBEL, 5313 FolsmonUi, Kansas City 
3. Kansas. 
SPENCE WALTON, 346 Park Avenue, Misha­waka, Indiana. GENE WTTCHGER, 6164 North Meridian, Indi­anopoUs, Indiana. ORLAND YATES, HO South Main, Hannibal, ^(issouri. 
And there you have it. Oh yes, tliis time to press we have two unclaimed friends. Anybody knmv anything about: JOHN GROOS or JIM BARTLEY? Let's hear from you If you do. 
Shortly after you receive this chatter wc hope to be in our new home. ^Vhile wc won't citange the masthead yet—for Christmas, or by January­1, wcMl be at 702 Scarlett Drive, Baltimore 4, Afd. Tliat's in the county, near Goucher College, into whose woods our yard will run. 
A Merry Christmas, gang! Keep the letters roll­ing in or wc*ll have another lean column in Spring. 
DICK BALLMAN is an Assistant Division Chief in the Adjudication Di^sion of the Milwaukee Regional Office of the Veterans Administration. 
1 93 6 Robert F. Ervin 
Lobund Institute 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
At our 20th Reunion, there was great enthu­siasm about making this column mean more to the Class of '36. But news items about our classmates do not "just happen." Without your letters, this column will not improve in size or content. LARRY PALKOVIC, ANDY HELL­MUTH, and DRS. FRED GABRIEL and KEN LAWS were the only correspondents since our last Alumnus. Larry writes in part: "Just a few lines to let you know that RICHARD SAMOWSKI of the Class of '36 passed away a few short weeks ago from complications which had set in during the past year or so. Used to sec and visit him quite often as he lived in Amsterdam, just 10 miles from here. He was also a great friend of DR. LEO HOFSCHNEIDER In Rochester as they both w*ent to St. Louis Medical School." Larry had his family with him at the Reunion and from there thev traveled through the West after \TsIting DON ELSER in Gzry. Thanks for the letter, Larr>'. 
/\NDY HELLMUTH was keen about the 20tli Reunion and enjoyed seeing the Lobund movie while here. Thanks for writing, Andy. FRED G.ABRIEL is now in Philadelphia taking graduate work in radIolog>'. Good luck, Fred! Ken Laws wrote to brag about his "special diarcoal steaks" and issue an tnx-itation. Hope to take you up on it soon. Ken. 

The Caniille Gravel family of Alexandria, La., includes Mrs. Gravel; Charles G.; Margaret Lj-nn, Virginia, Camille III (seated), Eunice (seated), Mar>', Kathcrinc, Grady (seated), Martha, Mark and Camille, '35, who is also featured as Spotlight Alumnus on page 49, 
Tlie report that PHIL (MICKEY) WALKEI^ was killed in the crash of a Venezuelan airline^ off New York was received after otu: column was submitted for the last issue. This news was a profound shock to all of us who knew Mickey and ivc offer our sincere sympathy to his family. 
LEE AIOORMAN fon%'arded the questionnaires which were sent out before the last reunion. From these wc have f>btained some information and per­sonal notes about our class. I believe that these will illustrate news Items which we hope you will continue to supply to your Secretary. TOM ADAMSON, who is Assistant Director of Public^ Relations for the Bou-man Daii^' Company oi™* Chicago, writes, "Seems like old Dillon Hall days as I sit here writing to you. JOHN DE MOTS, AL ROHOL, and I belong to the same Christian Family Mo\-emcnt group and John has become a Section Leader. We all belong to St. Anthana­slus Church (£\'anston) and see each other often. I live directly across the street from Dycke Stadium %vhcrc Notre Dame triumphed over North^vestern so many times. . . . BERT MET2GER, Rockne's watdifob guard, is manager of one of our sales divisions and I sec him almost dally. ^VALT£Iy METZGER, anotlier N.D. graduate, Js Head ol"* ofur Motor Fleet and his office and ours arc only steps apart. So, we get Notre Dame news from many sources. DR. ST/\NLEY HUFF, another 
N.D. grad, is with M Rohol and I In the C.F.M. group. Stan graduated quite aivhile after wc did but has already become a successful skin specialist here in Evanston." 
JOHN MORt\N writes from Dallas, Texas, "Af­ter graduation, I worked for the Treasury Depart­ment and did public relations agcnc>- ivork in New York. Came Dec 7, 1941, and Pearl Har­bor . . . and the Na\*>' gave me ten hours tqC report for active duty. Scrx'cd 4i4 years, mostly"*" as a gunnery officer, and got a Cook's tour of the world. Kept bumping into Notre Dame men in sucli unlikely places as the Admiralty Islands, tlic Philippines, England, Algiers and intermediate points. Was returned to civilian life early in 1946. Still retain my Interest in things natuical and am active as a Lieutenant Commander In a local Naval Rcser\e unit. Came to Dallas, Texas, with BUD GOLDMAN right after the Navy released me and after Bud had finished with his Army soldiering. Wc had a magazine idea In mind but local conditions prevented us from making it ^ reality and die idea was abandoned. I joined ^ 1 local public relations firm, Watson /Vssoclates, and liave been witli the firm since 1946. Bud is pres­ently director of advertising and publicity for Texlite, Inc., the country's leading maker of porcelain signs and building materials (free plug). There arc only three men from the Class of 1936 here in Dallas. Tliey arc LOU BRIEGER, Bud and myseli. Wc have an active Notre Dame Club here—about 200 members—and I have the honor of being the immediate past president as well as chairman of the scliolarship committee. My ad­dress is 5614 W. Hanover, Dallas 9, Texas, and t\-ouId %4'clcome a call from antbody passing) through these heali parts." "*" 
.ANDY PILNEY, head football coach at Tulane University, proudly writes, "Son Dennis played football as a halfback in the Junior League, a national organoation, made the All-iVmcrican ^ Team 1954, scored 133 points in seven games. Now i attending eighth grade Jesuit High School here I in New Orleans." BILL SH.\KESPEARE, who at : the last minute could not attend the reunion, ; wrote, "I*ve just been transferred to the Cincinnati Rubber ^fanufacturing Co., capacity—^Assistant to , the President, after almost 20 years of c.xpoijr| travel for our parent company—Thor Power Tt^ri ' To answer some of your questions—family consists of two bo>-s: Bill, Jr., 12, and Warren, 8. Needless j to say, I'll be looking forxvard to seeing as many ; of the old gang as possible as I haven't been back \ to the campus in 15 years." j 
A fetv random notes about occupations: DR. | FRED ARMINGTON Is a captain In the Medical i Corps, U. S. Navy, and a specialist In internal I medicine at the Naval Hospital, St. Albans, Long 1 Island, N. Y.; HARRY BECKER Is a general ] foreman with the U. S. Rubber Company in MishqfTi waka, Indiana; BELL BELDEN is treasurer of th^' Bcldcn Brick Co., Canton, Ohio; BOB BERNARD Is a superintendent for the Kimberley Clark Cor­poration in Fullerton, CallL; GEORGE BINDER manages a department store in Wheaton, III.; JACK BRAY Is executive ^ice-president of a whole drug concern in Paducaii, Ky.; CONNIE BYRNE, a practicing public accountant, is also assistant professor of accounting at St. Joseph's College In PhUadclphia; BILL DARCY Is in sales for the Commercial Ink and Lacquer Company, Toledo, Ohio; WALLY FROMHART Is head coacli at the University of Detroit; HERM GREEN Is vic^V 

50 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Nov.-Dec.j 1956 
WILLIAM F. MULRENAN, '37 
AVilliam Mulrenan has been ap­pointed Assistant National Sales Man­ager of Remington Rand Electric 

' Shaver and will assist the general sales i manager on all product lines. 1^ Following his graduation from Notre ; Dame Bill joined the John Hancock ; Insurance Company in Bridgeport, -: Connecticut and remained there until 
•enlisting in the navj' in 1942. He ser\'ed four years, achieving the rank : of Lieutenant (Supply Corps) and was 
wounded in action while participating i^ the landings on Luzon in the Philip­pine Islands. 
In 1954 he was president of the Soudiwestem Connecticut Notre Dame ; Alumni Club. Bill and his wife Beatrice have three boj'Sj ^Villiam, Timothy and Kevin. 
'^ 
president and director ol the Peoples Bank ot 
Lawrence County in New Castle, Pa.; JACK LORITSCH is plant manager of the Chemical Material Department, General Electric Co., Sdienectady; DR. FRANK MURR.\Y is in the practice of jnternat xnediclne in U'ashington, D. C. For several years he has been a special consultant on tuberculosis with the U. S. Public Health Ser^'­ice. CHARLIE SCH,\FFLER is in the funiiturc and interior decorating business in Memphis; BILL 

^flTH is assistant controller of the Tbni Com­^iny , a division of the Gillette Company in Chicago. 
JOHN WALKER of Keokuk, Iowa, dropped in for a visit the other day as he was on campus to register a nephew in school. John is in the insurance business. It was a good visit, John. 
To save lUc writing to a few close friends, we at long last (August 14) had a daughter, Catherine Mar>', in our family to join her five brothers. 

Well, fellow*s, we have taken up a lot of space in JOHN Ci\CKLEY's magazine and it will be interesting to sec whether he cuts it. (Ed. Note: ^t l a chance!) Keep writing! 
1937 
 ^'"'' ^°^^^' Vice-President McCann-Erickson, Inc. 3346 Penobscot BIdg. Detroit 26, Michigan 
aewvon 
I ff^^^^l 
June I 7-8-9 I 
illlinKnPIIIII 

ED HOYT is credit manager of U. S. Rubber In­ternational with an ofEce at 1230 Avenue of the /Vraericas, New York City. Ed also teaches night classes at City College. 
AL SCHWARTZ, Salina, Kas., recently became the father of his seventh cliild. The Schwartz family' now includes five boys and two girls. 

(Ed. Note: Members of the 1937 Class will be pleased to learn that HARRV KOEHLER and JERRY CL/\EYS have accepted—their claim of being drafted is unfounded—the local co-cliairman­ship for our 20th Reunion next June 7-8-9. Tlicy \('ill work closely with the Alumni OHicc staff in preparing for this great event. Your suggestions for the weekend will be much appreciated. Cor­respondence should be sent to; Jerome Claeys, 451 
S. Greenlawn Ave., South Bnd, Ind.. or H3rr\­
F. Koehler, Jr., 1433 E. .Madison St., Soiiili Bend, Ind. JC). 
1 938 ^^^ai'lcs M. Callahan 
• ^*' Sports Publicity Dept. Notre Dame, Indiana 

JOE C-\LLr\HAX is director of athletics and football coach at St. Xfary's High Scliool. Grccn­(I'ich, Conn. This year Joe's school is playing their first Season of \*ar5ity football since the institution has only been in operation the past two years. 
A£V. BERNARO J. TOPEL, Bishop oi Spokane, gave the opening talk this past summer at Notre Dame's Institute of Spirituality. After studying at Notre Dame in the late '30*5, he was a member of the faculty. 
CARLTON ^fcDOVGALLy who was in a scriotis 

automobile accident almost a year ago. Is still in the hospital recovering slowly but his wife has recently been released and Is coming along fine. A card and a prayer for Carlton will be a big help. His address is Veterans Hospital, Davis Park, Providence, R. I. 
JACK MONTEVERDE, Pittsburgh realtor mo­gul, and his wife have six boys and three girls and are expecting their tenth in the near future. Recently at a father and son golf tournament held at the Pittsburgh Field Club, Jack and his oldest $on won first prize. 
1939 J^™*^ ^' Motschall 
Singcr-Motschall Corp. 10090 W. Chicago Detroit 4, Michigan 

(Editor's Note: BILL OTOOLE who, as all of you know, sufl'ercd a heart attack last year, is recovering normal health again. However, he tliinks under the circumstances that It would be best to appoint an • interim secretary until the class meets again at reunion in June, 1959. JIM MOTSCHALL has accepted the assignment and -will ser\e as class secretary for the next two years. Your co-operation with Jim ^v-ill be greatly appre­
ciated by the Alumni Office. Our thanks again 
to Bill O'TooIe for the excellent work that he did 
OS correspondent for the Alumnus magazine and we 
hope that he will enjov continued good health. 
JC). 
ALBERT J. SCHMITZ has been appointed as­sistant director of the special services division of the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States. AI has been with the company since 1939 
and he had beea assigned to various agencies 
including Dayton, Cincinnati and Kansas City prior to being transferred to the home ofiicc in New York City sbc years ago. M Is married and has a son and a daughter. 
BILL MAHONEY, the old track star who is now-Maricopa County Attorney In Arizona, was the successful candidate for congressman in the Dcmo-
If Terry Brennan runs short on tackle material this year heM do well to contact John Buck­ley, '38, Midland, Texas. Standing, left to right: Martin, 12, Bill, 16, Mike, 14, Jack 16, and Ted 9. Seated, Stephen 3, John and Ncysa 2. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov,-Dec,, 1956 
CENTRAL NEW YORK—Club officers and chaimicn of the smoker and raffle are as fol­lows: sitting (left to right)—^Tom Quinlan, secretary-treasurer; Phil *Hoby' Shean, president; and William D\v>-er, vice-president. Standing (left to right): William Biser, publicity chair­man; Ed Clear>*, rafllc chairman; and Bill Hassctt, smoker chairman. 
craiic priniarv* election. Bill and Ins wife, parents of a new son. also have tivo oilier boys and three daughters. Bill visited the campus recently to attend the funeral of FATHER BROUGHALL. 
1 940 J^mes G. Brow-n 625 Aladison Avenue Nov York, New York 
IMca-sc note change of address from our last column. Vour correspondent was not deluged with news since the last issue as optimistically lioped for but perhaps things will pick up. We do have a few notes including a very fine note from JIM CLE.VRY, president of the Clcar>-Shevlin Manufacturing Co. in Micliigan. Jim men­tions that during a trip to Mississippi he had occa­.sion to call and talk to PHIL C/WALE. Vou will remember that I'hil's picture appeared In the AIumR'is Mtme months back as being one of the youngest judges ever to be appointed in the stale of Tennessee. Pliil is fine but unfortunately lost liis wife last spring after a prolonged illness. I know you will all join in expressing regrets and <»frering a prayer on her behalf. Phil has two young daugliters. 
Have a note here that DAS SALLOWS has just received his masters degree from New York University this past June. Dan is from Brooklyn, I think, but I have not seen him around these pans for many years. Congratulations, Dan, Let's lioar from you since you are only a ten cent phone call away! ! 
I have a blurb from one of the trade publica­tions with a picture of JIA! CAWLEY. Looks like the mag might be Modern Sanitation. Jim lias just been appointed Sanitation consultant for Airkem, Inc., and from the article It looks like Jim has been doing real well in the industrial Sanitation field. He was editor of Modern Sani­tation for six years and now is moving out on a consultant basis. Looks good, Jim. Write and give us ail llie particulars. 
Have another blurb from Republic Steel Corp. In Cleveland announcing BOB ROTHACKER to be the General Foreman of Republic's Union Drawn Steel division in Beaver Falls, Pa. I bumped into Rothmoor one night in the winter of 194-1 up In the Boston Garden at a Ranger-Boston Bruin hockey game. He and EDGAR DOUGHERT\' were up at Har\-ard graduate school at the time. I guess Bob completed his graduate work and is now located in Pennsylvania. Bob has two children. 
Received a very fine letter from LARRY FER­GUSON, now the Reverend Larry Ferguson via the Alumni office. Larry was ordained Deacon 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 2956 
in the Episcopal Church in 1952 and Priest In 1953. After a stay up in Milwaukee he is now located In Amarillo, Texas f:arr>'Ing on his religious duties and teaching in the school as tvell. For those of you %vho may remember. Larry's father was the rector of the Episcopal Church In South Bend when We were at school. We certainly wish him well in bis religious calling. In recounting his feelings toward Notre Dame Lany mentions the scliolarslilp fund that the Class of MO Is tr\*ing to build . . . which gives me an opening to bring to your attention this worthy project. By now you have all received your mimeo sheet outlining the idea behind this scholarship fund which Is primarily for the sons of Notre Dame men of 1940 who died in W.W. II. The committee which is merely crystallizing an idea which was discussed and en­dorsed at the reunion sincerely asks your cooperation and contributions to make this project a success. Certainly we \v}m have survived thus far and Iiad an opportunity to work in one of the liiost pros­perous eras of the country's history should be able to spare a few dollars a year to make this oppor­tunity for some youngster whose father we all knew 
at Notre Dame. 
Have a letter from PHIL DOXOHUE with a Sioux Falls, South Dakota postmark on It Phil writes that he Is in the livestock business and haptens to assure us that South Dakota Is loaded 
Tom Delia, Brooklyn, N. Y., uas the first registrant for the Class of l94Vs 15th re­union held last June on campus. 
with livestock and that there will be no shortage v^ 
meat this year. He did not mention anything abo£j 
prices however. Phil and his wife have a family 
of seven children: four girls and three boys, and 
he still manages to play a great deal of golf. Phil 
has won the South Dekota Slate amateur cham­
pionship. I think that everyone ot us would enjoy 
seeing a small snapshot of this family group. And 
this goes for all hands: when you drop a line, 
enclose a picture so wc can all sec how well you 
are slaying in shape. 
Tilts Issue is a little pressed for lime because 

in the past month I have moved my residence ai|^ 
my office and left the column until the last minute. 
Next issue we'll continue with the alphabetical 
file through the yearbook, whh plenty of info. 
Wc conclude with a sad note. During the monili 

of August, FR/VNK BIAGI passed away Jn St. 
Paul. Minnesota. A good, tough end and a very 
nice fellow. I know you will join me in expressing; 
our ssTupathy to Mrs. Diagi. Please remember hmi 
in your prayers. 1 do not have any other par­
ticulars. 
10/[| James F. Spcllman ^ 
James F. Spcllman Co. 
7 East 42nd St. 
New York 17, N. Y. 
.•MI of us who were lucky enough to attend the 

13th Reunion agree that the few days on the 
campus were truly wonderful; and that wc shall 
be there again in 1961, God willing. Many of the 
class promised to write to nie with information 
regarding our other classmates; but as of deadline 
time, nobody has written. However. I have lalki^ 
with quite a few of the class in the New Yoi^ 
area, and with some of the returnees while at the 
reunion; so, I've managed to get a start with 
the news. 
ARTIE HUMBY has a business serx'ice. comp­

tometer operators and typists rlglit here on Broad­
way. He told me that JOHNNY ROSS Is thinking 
of coming to (he City from upstate to have a local 
gel-logcthcr. TOM DELIA, another business man 
from Brooklyn, whose picture shows him first in 
the registration line at the Law building, has 
promised to join the group. Played golf wllii 
Tom last month at the N.D. Club of New York's 
annual golf outing. -AL PERRINE wxs there, als/7^ 
.•\1 is with United Cerebral Palsy xVssociation, Inc5r^ 
here in New York, and still a bachelor. 
Received an announcement from CYRIL T. 

GARVEY , stating that he has established a law 
practice in Sharon. Pa., with the name Evans & 
E\'ans & Garvey. Had a pleasant chat with BILL 
GARVEY while at Notre Dame. Bill is an execu­
tive with Aluminum Distributors. Inc.. of Chicago. 
LOU MacKENZIE, who made the reunion at 

the last minute, has been made a general partner 
in the firm of Hasklns & Sells, this city. LxRRY 
WALSH, also, is a member of the same firm. 
L;\RRY BR^\CKEN called me just before ll ^ 

leiinion to say that he would not make the reiinit^^ 
as he was expecting to become a father. Since 
he hasn't called me, I don't know what th<: situa­
tion is. Larry is an FBI man in New York. 
TJic MILES brothers were oij the campus In June. Tom is a doctor in Garden City, Long I Island, while Goerge Is in St. Louis with Conti-i nental Can, I think. 
Had a swell time reminiscing with PAUL PUG­LIA, LOU APONE, BOB STACK, GERRY PA­VEGLIO, JOHN O'LOUGHLIN, DICK O'CON­NOR, VINNIE SNUTH, JIM BEHE and manv others. Paul Is a Bulck dealer in Waynesbur^^ Pa. Gerrj", too, is a Buick man from Inm Moun­tain, Mich. LOU APONE looks the same except for a little gray in bis hair. Vlnnle Smith wishes : he had some to be gray! John O'Louglilln still '• doing great things in Chicago, and still single, i alxs! Bob Stack kept ua entertained at the I Oliver the night before the reunion officially began. • It u'as a real bull session, and no fear of being ; restricted to campus. Belie kept us au'ake until three In the morning after wc had returned to ; Dillon. 
Our illustrloui new President. SGT. RICHAR © O'CONNOR, writes me fnmi New Albany, Ind.. where he Is a partner in the firm of Bulleit Orbl­son Rudy & O'Connor (nn commas In that title, suh.'). Dick and several of us held down the porcli at Morris Inn on one of those lovely hot davs of the reunion. .Again, another long session of bull. 
JOHN MacCAULEY, our class Treasurer, was on hand to greet us when wc checked in to register. John is most active in the Foundation work. He lives right there in the shadow of the Dome. 
CHARLIE DILLON, our excellent past pre? ^ 

NAUGATUCK VALLEY—Club officers includ William Dwycr, treasurer; Janies J. Scigliano, 
(lent, lias his own lav»- business in Butler. I'a. He is also a VI' in the new cla>s setup. 
BERME MAGO, ot Tonawanda. X. Y.. re­ceived a master in business administration deyrce from Harvard University in June. 
Tht: magazine *'Anny," a recent edition, features an article **Fare\vcU lo tlie Repple," bv LT. COL. MICHAEL J. DOU\X, USAR. Col. Dolan is a '-ll'er. fonnerly with the 42nd Division; taught at University of I'ortland In 194G after ' avinji the service. Holds MA from Xotre Dame 
«I political science; is now Chief. Enlisted Section, C;l Div. of USAREUR. 
RAY CL.\RKE was at the reunion, also. He is Controller of the Imperial Paper and Color Cor­poration. Glens Falls. X. Y. DOX TIEDEMAX is with Xew York Life Insurance Co., in the law department. 
Would love to hear from you fellows all over the rnnntr\% So would your classmates. Please write to me in time for the nc\t edition of the .Ahmmiis. 
I OAy  William E. Scanlan  
tf  '^* '  400 East  I nt h  Street  
^  Chicago 28,  Illinois  

J 
Reunion 
June i 

HEXRY E. STORCK has been appointed sale> manager in the District of Columbia and parts of Maryland. Virginia and West Virginia by Inland Steel Products Company, Milwaukee, Wis. He will promote the company's x'arious products whic!i include roof decks, wall units, rtc. 
I 0^ 0 John L. Wiggins 
• ' ^ 4800 Fairlawn Drive LaCanada, California 
We have received an announcement of the birih 
i.f Jeannie and BUDD GAXS* fifth cliild, Raymond Michael, on May 5. They have three daughters and two sons. Apparently Budd is still with Boeing's contract division since he lists 220 S. Pershing. Wichita, Kans., as his address. 
The Class of M3 seems to be doing quite well i(2 the presidential listing of several of the local 
e, left to ri^ht: Norbert F. Henebry, secretary; 
president; and Frank Jacobs, vice-president. 
Notie Dami> .-Mumni Clubs. Those of the cla.^ who hold ofiice are: 
.\(ATT SULLIVAX, Washington. D. C. FRED DEWES, Evansvilk-, Ind. Club. FRED CHRIST.MAX, Tcrre Haute, Ind. Club. DR. PAUL LEOXARD, Xiles. .Mich. Club. JI.M BYRXE, Detroit, -Mich. Club. JOE KEUSCH. .MiLskegon. -Mich- Club. BOB McC\FFERT\', Cincinnati. Ohio Club. MARK PFAILER, Milwaukee, Wis. Club. 
It is Interesting to noie that three of the clubs in the State of Michigan arc headed by class members. Looks like a pretty shrewd maneuver to Insure .Michigan Stale football game tickets! 
ROME—Holy Cross priests attending tlie 
£ver>'one in the class would appreciate a note from the foregoing seven Club prexies; I am certain that they should have some information about the men of *43 in their dubs. How about it men? 
JINf MAHER has been promoted to Project Manager of Finance in the IBNf Product Develop­ment Lab at Poughkerp^e, X'. V. Jim is in charge of the Enginering Accounting and Engineering Machine Accounting departments. He has been with IBM since 1954. Jim is married, has four children, two daughters and two sons. He lives at 18 Caywood PL, Hyde Park, X. V, 
ART FELTES has been elected assistant cashier of the Harris Trust and &a%')ngs Bank in Chicago. He joined Harris in 1950 and is now a m?mbcr of the loaning division. 
JOE WALSH, Tuckalioe, .\'. Y.. received a mas­ters degree from X'YU at commencement exercises held in June. 
DOX HELTZEL sends along an additional $9.00 he has received as contributions for the Class of '43 Mass Fund. We are adding the following names CH^VRLES F. B£BE.\U and JOHN COX. Both men left to enlist during World War H; both were casualties. Please remember them In your prayers. 
I saw BOB POHL recently and he told me that his brother DICK {'43) was a successful Dayton, Ohio contractor. 
BILL NHDDEXDORF writes that he had spent 
a {cw minutes with DR. BOB XEXXO who is on 
the staff of Georgetown Hospital in Washington. Bill had seen PAUL FISHER, JACK McGRATH and MATT SULLIV.\X at a recent D.C. Club meeting. Also, on a vacation to the Midwest he had seen ED DUQUETTE; he was unsuccessful in his attempt to contact F.-VTHER BOB PELTOX on frampus. Father Pelton was in Mexico. 
DR. and Mrs. FRED G.\XS of Salina. Kansas, arc the proud parents of eight children, five girls and three boys. 
Will any of you who htimp into classmates after some of the football games, rallies, etc., please jot a short note to the old secretary. It would help immensely. 
104 4 George Bariscillc 515 Fifth Avenue Bradley Beach, N. J. 
We had just gone to press -with the last issue iif the ^Vlumnus when a letter arrived from SAM WIXG from Dallas. It missed the .August edition by a whisker, so we're heading this column with 
 General Chapter in Rome were guests of the 
alumni club at a special dinner meeting. Standing arc: Thomas B. Maus, Ft. Lauderdale; John Kruegcr, Rome; Maria Meschiari, Rome; Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.; Mrs. Louis C. Bosco, Sr., Detroit; Louis C. Bosco, Jr., Detroit; Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C.; Rev. Howard J. Kcnna, C.S.C.; Louis C. Bosco, Sr., Detroit; Rev. Joseph L Holland, S.J., Beirut; Rev. Eugene P. Bums, S.J., Beirut; and Donald A. Bosco, Detroit. Seated are: Rev. Bernard I. .Mullahy, C.S.C.; Mrs. Edward P. O'Sullivan; Rev. Richard J. Grimm; Vincent G. MctVIoon, Rome; Nick DeSImone, Rome; and Mrs. Theodore Manion, Beirut. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 
WILLIAM H. COLEALVN, '40 
Almost two yeai^s ago "Business AVeek" ran an article on the \VB.Y Wil­liam Coleman had pulled a one-time prosperous airplane parts company out of an almost fatal nose dive. But that's only typical of the d^Tiamic business leadership Bill has displayed in his meteoric career. 
Bill's father died on the second day of Bill's senior year. He dropped from school and two years later founded a wire products manufacturing company on $300 capital. Now. anotlier 14 years later, he is the new president of the Young Presidents Organization. The organization now consists of over IjOOO members w'ho are presidents under the age of 40 of companies doing business in excess of $1,,000,000 yearly. 
Bill is chairman of Banner Metals, Inc.. and of the merged AIco Oil & Chemical Corporation and Rainbow Production Company. For the last three years he has been a Special Part­ner in die firm of Ball, Bui^e & Kraus, Oliio's lai^est investment banking firm. 
He has serx^ed as a director of va­rious corporations, including Evans Products Company, Aero Supply Man­ufacturing Company, Banner Metal Products Company and Hydramotive, Inc. He is also a trustee of The Cath­olic Charities Corporation of Cleve­land, and .a member of the Cleveland Committee of tlie Council on AVorld Affairs. 
He and his wife Liz have Just had their eighth child. 
34 Notre Dame AlumnuSj Nov.-Dec,^ 1956 

Sam's inv-itatton: ''Will you mention that I surely do wTsh some of our old mob like JACK WXT­TERS, ARTIE HOFFMAN, DICK DOERMER, FRANK STUMPF, and JOE VAN DYKE \%^uld come OR down to Big D for the Notre Damc-
S.M.U. game this coming September 22. It would be a lot of fun.*' Perhaps with the turn of events in Dallas on Sept. 22nd, It's just as well we're late getting it into the column; howe\*cr, knowing Sam I'm sure the tnxitation is still open, though I'm afmid it's a little late to catch tlic game. But, continuing u-ith his letter: 
"Recently had a pleasant suiprisc when JIM MEAGHER phoned from the Dallas airport during a stopover en route from Louisville to Houston. He had only an hour here but since we live only a short distance from the field I was able to run out and have a fine visit with him. I'm still doing notliing to increase enrollment at N. D.—still only five daughters. Am looking forward to seeing you at No. 15 in 1959." 
Another letter that Just missed our last dead­line came from DICK BRYDGES (Virginia Bench, Xlrginia), who bridges the gap of years with this report: "I left N.D. for the Air Force in '43 and have not been back to South Bend since that time. After four years in tlic service I packed my hip flask; paid my Green Fees and went to the University of Virginia Law Scliool where I graduated in '48. I have been practicing here at Va. Beach since then. I am married and have two children, a boy and a girl and after reading the births in the Alumnus I feel I am not holding up my end in this dcpt. I am Police and Traflic Judge hero at the Beach so tell all the boys that if they visit here there is a friend on llic Bench in case of difKcuIty! Seriously, if at any time some member of the '44 Class might want to visit the Beach, tell them all to write me and I will arrange rescr\'alions and sec that thc\- have a good lime." (Tliat makes the second invitation we've been extended. Now if ivc can just find someone between Virginia Beach and Dallas we'll be all set!) 
TONY BILOTTI writes from Queens \nilage, 

N. Y.: "I am still waiting to hear from "CHUCK" H^\DLICK and "SMOKEY JOE" McMxVXUS. Tlxcy both owe mc letters. Chuck is with Master Electric Co. in Baltimore and Joe is with West \nrginia Pulp & Paper. Had tlie pleasure of meeting FATHER CWANAUGH when he dropped in to the American Chicle Co. (Den­tync. Chiclets, etc.) on business recently. Now have two girls in the family, Karen 5^4 years and Barbara .Anne 2'/; months. No quarterbacks yet." 
BILL TALBOT, who's ever-faithful \\ith some news, sends along two golf notes for this column: "I see JERRY BROWN now and again with the N\'.ACers; and JIM Gx\LLv\GHER is cliamp at mv club, Ordsby C.C. (N.Y.)." 
I know you will be saddened to Icam of the passing of FATHER BROUGHAL during the past summer, for he was both teacher and friend to so many *44crs. He never forgot us, nor ^^•i^l we forget him in our prayers. 
Had a \-cr>- interesting letter from MIKE RODIN reporting on his \'arious assignments and doings since he graduated in Nov., '+t while a member of the Marine Corps at N.D. Mike writes, *'I wras discliarged in '46 and went to the University of Io\»'a ivhere I received my il S in Gcolog>' in '49. /Vfter working for the Na\y Hydrograpliic Oflice for tivo years I came on extended active duty with the Air Force. My first assignment in Feb. '52 was to the Ps>'chological "Warfare School at Georgetown University and then spent a year studj-ing Czccli at Cornell University. AVhilc at Cornell I saw PAT FILLEY quite frequently, so naturally w*e talked about the old days in Ca\'anaugh Hall. ^Vent overseas in August, *53, stationed at Rlicin/Main AFB, Frankfurt, Ger­many, then at "Wiesbaden, and am now on 30 days' leave before reporting to the 1125th Field Activities Group at Wright-Patterson x\FB, Dayton, Ohio. 
"One of tlic highlights of my dut>' in Germany was acting as MC at a Father and Son breakfast honoring TERRY BRENNAN and GEORGE DICKSON who were in Germany for the USAFE Football Clinic Terr\' gave an Inspirational talk for all tlie bo>*5 there, regardless of age. The beautiful Neroberg Officers Club overlooking the spa city of "Wiesbaden was jam-packed and Catho­lic scr\*icemen from all over that part of Germany came to pay their respects to Terry. 
"As to my home life, I married Mary Xfar­garett Schramm-.of Burlington, Iowa and we have three children: James Michael, 7; Helen Anne, 5; and Eulalia Marie, 16 months." 
Received a report on BOB SCHRAMM'S latest 
GERARD P. PAHLMAN, '34 

Gerard Pahlman left Notre Dame to work as a messenger and now, 23 yeai's later, he is the new resident vice presi­dent of American Manufacturers. 
Geny, who is manager of the Kem­per Insurance group's Los Angel^ branch office, spent several years before die war as agency division manager of that firm's Detroit office. 
In 1943 he was commissioned an Ensign in the Na\y and went on active dut)' as an air combat intelligence of-• ficer. Two months after his release he was assigned to the Los Angeles office as District Agency Supervisor. ©, In July 1955 Geny was made man­ager of the group's Southern California office, and in June was elevated to his j present position. 1 
He has worked for the National} Safety Council, and is a director of the j Wilshire Chamber of Commerce; he is also on the insurance committee of tt 0 State Chamber of Commerce. 
Gerr>' and his South Bend wife, j Marj'j were married on the campus at; Notre Dame. \ 
doings—he's now with Union Carbide Development • Company in X. Y. and according to tlic rele?^) from his company's public relations department, ]iiS'\ work is concerned with "long-term corporate j planning and e\'aluation of new business opportuni-• ties." After graduate work at tlic University of j Indiana, University of Kansas, and NYU, Bob I was associated with Spencer Chemical Company in ' 
Kansas City before joining Union Carbide. 
Colncidcntally, a letter arrived from JACK COLLINS who was formerly with the Electro Metallurgical Co., a division of Union Carbide and Carbon Corp. In XIagara Falls, N. Y. (If any *44crs run • out of carbide or carbon they 
C' 
ight contact Collins or Schnumn). Getting back !o Jack, he's now in Pittsburgh in the sales ofHce of—yes, you guessed it—Union Carbide, work­ing as a sales engineer. Jock is married and has a son, John, four, and a daughter, Elizabeth, two. His sales territory includes Cincinnati, Ohio, and he reports seeing DICIC A*HEf\RN' when he calls at General Electric Co. in Cincy, and also BILL GR/\FE, who is working as a salesman for the Abbott Pharmacc'utical Labs. 
One other quick note—EDGAR A. PESSEMIER, 

Cambridge, NIass., received a doctor of business Mndministration degree from Har\'ard this past June. " All of which brings me around to tliat time 
once again when your sccrctar>*'s plea goes fortli to loyal men of '44. Gents, the well is dry and deadline-time for another column will be beckon­ing as this copy readies you. So how about putting the magazine down right now and jot­ting off a few lines for the next issue. 'Twould be appreciated. 
104 c Al Lcsmcz I #-f*# J22 Tullamorc Road P Garden City, N. Y. 
LV ALL YOUR HEARTS Your sccrctar>', along with the other officers of the class, wish to extend an early heartfelt and sincere wish that each of you of the class enjoy a happy and most Xlerrv- Christmas. May the blessings of the Christ Child be in your lives, in your hearts, and in tlie hearts of your loved ones . . . during this beautiful Holy season, and throughout the coming year. 
|.\E\VS FROM HERE .-VND THERE " Did you know that CHARLES LESLIE is a doc­tor at St. Micliael's hospital in Texarkana, Arkan­sas where he is a Radiologist . . . tliat he and his wife Kay live at 2923 Pine Street, Texarkana, Texas, along with their tJiree children: Charles, %vho is 4; Patrick, who is 3; and Laurie, who is 
1 . . . Uiat JOHN E. FALLOT of 101 Kent Street, Albany, New York is working with Owens Illinois Glass Co., as a salesman . . . that John, Jr. is now 214 years old, and Norman is 1, and that John's wife, ^fary Kay, must have to be on her toes all day long with three bo>*s around the house . . . tliat ANTHONY PIZZ.\RELLI 
Pond wife Joan have four young 'uns around to keep tilings active . . . that they ore: Christine, 7; fVnthony, 5; Nancy, 3; and .\nn, 1 . . . that Doctor Pizzarclli practiced in the residency pro­gram for the U. S. /\ir Force, and is now in private practice as an obstetrician and gynecologist . . . Uiat JOHN R. RY/\N, representative for Connecticut General Life Insurance Co., in Hib­
bing, Minnesota, is among those recently notified tliat their 1955 soles of life insurance qualify them for membership in the 1956 Million Dollar Round Tabic . . . that this year's site of the Round-table meetings is a cruise convention to Bermuda on the Swedish American Line flagship, Kungsholm . . . that our long lost V.P. and close buddy, PHIL ALVRTIN, hasn't been lost after all, and that he ^vrites that his new address is to be 4787 Lee Avenue, La Mesa, California . . . that CLIF­FORD RINGWALD is another class member who went on to become a doctor . -. that after spend­ing two years in the U. S. Air Force as a captain in the Medical Corps, he began pri%'ate .-practice in December 1953 . . . that lie lives with his wife, Ruth, Karen Ann, 6; Jay Micliael, 4; and Curtis Paul, 1, at 5143 Brummel Street, Skokie, Illinois. . . . that his office is located in Skokie . . . that the stork is momentarily due at 9300 E. Sprague Street, Spokane, Washington, the home of THEO­DORE M. RY/\N and his wife, Margaret . . . that their little boy, Marty, is five, and that dad is practicing law in Spokane . . . that BOB OBER-FELL's address is 160 Front Street, New York 7, New York, for Ted's benefit . . . tliat your class sccrctar>' is pushing this column out in the middle of the night so that he can get this Info off to Sciior Cackley and then be able to go with clear conscience on a long-awaited European vaca­ation. (Ed. Note: A European vacation—man, what docs this guv Lesmez have that I dont? JC). . . . that OWEN WILLIAM DOYLE, M.D., lives at 906 Dover Road, Greenshoro, North Carolina . . . that FR^WCES E. .MALONE is living at I4I2 Bates Avenue, Springfield, Illinois . . . that he is a junior accountant with the firm of Ra>'mond E. Rickbtcl . . . that Frank is still a baclielor and good luck to him (we should all be so lucky! !) . . . that Frank completed the requirements for his BSC from N.D. in August 1955 and therefore should not be listed in our class . . . that JIM PARIS lias a new address at 3587 Lupine Avenue, Palo Alto, California after having been transferred by his employer, Lockheed Missile Di\^ion . . . that our old pal and former treasurer (now re­tired with all the class wealth) R^\YMOND BAD­DOUR is living at 19 Mocasin Path, Arlington, Mass. . . . that his wife, /Vnn, and little Cynthia (1 year old) ore both fine . . . that Ray is still maintaining the high scholastic standards at M.I.T. OS an Asst. Professor in Chemistry- . . . that Ray met H.\NK FRtVDLEY recently while Hank was attending a management school at M.I.T. . . . that JOE INCE has finally been located, and that since he is one of the ie\v men who made the five-year reunion in 1950, and was vcr>- much missed at the 10-year reunion in 1955, I am very glad to pass on his newly-found address: 516 South Flower Street, Inglcwood, California, 
DALLAS—Alvin C. Lostetter (center), winner of the four-year $2,400 scholarship awarded |by the Notre Dame Club of Dallas, is congratulated by Scholarship Committee Chairman John J. Moran, '36 (right). Smiling approval at left is cliib President J. AL Reichenstcin, Jr., *42. The second boy to receive a club scholarship in the past two years, young Lostetter graduated from Jesuit High School with an average of 95-43 percent. 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT From PHILIP P. MARTIN, JR.: "Happy to see you're still doing your fine job as secretary of our Class. I have noted in your column that some of the mail addressed to me has been returned. I cannot understand this as I have lived at 4574 58th Street, San Diego 15, for the past five years. However, I am now in the process of moving to 4787 Lee Avenue, La Mesa, California. La.Mesa is, more or less, a suburb on the eastern side of San Diego. I hope any members of the class who happen to be in or around San Diego will stop in and see us. *'Since I am Vice-President-West of the Class of '45, I suppose I should organize some kind of 'get together cither before or after the Notre Dame­^USC game In Los Angeles on December 1st of this year. I would welcome suggestions from other members of the class who might be able to attend, ! especially as to the selection of a meeting place Jn Los Angeles. If an Alumnus magazine is com­ing out in the next couple months, you can probably cover this matter in your column; other­wise, I'll have to contact the members directly. For this purpose, I will need a list of the members of our class in this section of the country. "Thank you for keeping us current on the news of the Class of '45. I am enclosing my check for dues. I assume you will take care of my changed address on Notre Dame's records. Kindest regards to all." From JIM RETTER: *"Afler reading your coltmin in the /Vlumnus, I couldn't do anything but try to proride you with some ammunition for future col­umns. I was disappointed at the poor response to tlie solicitation of class dues. No small group con be expected to carry the burden entirely and $5.(K) is little enough of a contribution for the splendid Job '>*ou and ^'our group are doing. We all appreciate the efforts and the results as demonstrated at our ten year reunion. I enjoyed it thoroughly and I know that tlie 15 year get­togetlier will be as enjo>-abIe and well done. Your group is doing the work, the least the rest of us can do is supply our share of the expenses. "As to news, I can finally say I have a daughter. On Friday Patricia Nora u-as added to our family of three sons. "I have another new address. It h 16 Greenock Road, Dclmar, N. Y. The other address was tem­porary ^vhile we were building a home. This is a luxury wc can't always afford in sales so we were quite happy to be able to find a temporary spot to roost, while we indulged. This is the third house we have o^vned in three years and I hope to be here awhile. Moving is beginning to turn me into an old man. I have a smalt office here in Albany %vith two girls. One man worlts under me and I am hoping to add to that number soon. "When I \vas in Utica, I phoned JIM CLYNES. who refused free legal advice. Hereafter, I'll clioosc my friends more carefully. pR^VNK LINE­Hi\N, who -is with G.E. at Schenectady helped me make contacts in tlie area. I hope to see both of them soon. "BOB WOODHOUSE just phoned me. He is x-acationing in Dela\^*are and plans to drive up for a visit this weekend with his %vifc so we wll be playing the *Victorv March' for a few days." From G. .M. McMAHON, C.S.C.: "Did you find DICK YOUNG? The August Alumnus mentions his Canadian address. I tliink that's an old one. On his ^^-ay from Canada—he was en route to Spain— he stopped at our house in Binghamton. After that his address became Coso 15, Zaragoza, Spain c/o B^own-Raymond-^Val5h. You can alwa>-s get Young's address from the Walsh Construction Co., in the heart of Manhattan (^fadison Ave., I think). (Possibly now Bro\%'n-Raymond-\Valsh-) "Nm*", if you have missed his Spanish address, then maybe you missed the news of his wedding. Ho married a Spanish Scnorita (very beautiful, he said) about a year or t^vo ago. I figured that wotdd be a choice item of conversation at your big '55 reunion, never dreaming the class might have missed the news. He \\'rote to me a ^veek before Iiis wedding—the wedding should have been over by the time I got the letter, so I guess it really happened. *'Later I ^vrotc to Young, twice, and nc^'er got an answer. **Your column is the most interesting part of the Alumnus for me because I kno\^r just about e\-erybody that you mention In it. From DON TRACEY: "Guess the enclosed clip­ping are self-explanatory. The name *HOTvard* rang a bell when 1 read the death notice in the paper so I got out the 19 Oct. 1945 issue (our 'yearbook') of the Scholastic and found Don's pic­ture on page seven. ^Ve went to the same high school together here in Albany, met quite often 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 55 
TERRENCE J. DILLON, '32 

Terry Dillon is now the president cl the Local Loan Company which oper­ates 77 small loan offices in 12 states. 
After graduation from Notre Dame in 1932, Terr>' joined die firm as an interviewer in its Los Angeles office. In 1934, he became manager of its of­fice in Holl)^vood. He accompanied tlie late Fred Snite, Jr., 'SS, and family on a world cruise in 1936 and late in that same year was transferred to the Chi­cago headquarters. 
In 1942 Terr)' was elected treasurer of Local Loan, and in 1944 was made a \dce president. 
During this period, he has served as president of the Chicago Lenders Ex­change and chairman of the public re­lations committee of the National Con­sumer Finance Association. 
Terr)' has also been chairman of many cliaritable drives, including Red Cross, Community Fund, Heart Fund, and Chicago Boy Scouts. He has re­cently endowed a memorial unit to his father, John A. Dillon, Jr., '98, in the new Science Building at Notre Dame. He had three brothers at Notre Dame, John '36, Lawrence '38, and Joseph '49. 
Terry and his wife Marj' have five dausfhters. 
at N.D. and graduated together in the "handfur' class. After that time I u-as tradiing in Indi­anapolis and Taunton, Mass., and do not recall that I ever met Don after graduation day. 
*'I'II be at the wake tonight and at the solemn Mass of Requiem tomorrow here in Albany. And I'm sure tliat, when informed, the members of 
56 Notre Dame AlumnuSj Nov.-Dec.j 1956 
the class will remember Don's soul in their. 
prayers. 
**From wliat I have heard, the cause of death 

was a heart attack. \Vc might also remember 
his wife and three cliildren in our prayers at 
this time. 
"Of courie. this is sad news—especially so for 

Don's family. But I believe it can be a source 
of tliought for us when we sec a member of our 
class who ^'fought the good 6ght" finish his f»>ui>e 
and receive his just reward. 
*"As for myself—I'm a seminarian, studying for 

the Diocese of Lafayette in Indiana. Rconved 
Minor Orders tltis past May and hope, with tlu­
gracc of God, to be ordained in early 1958. I 
ought to be in Indiana at the time of the 15-year 
reunion in '60. 
^'^laintalning two addresses—one home, tlie other the scm.—makes fur a mail foul-up once in a while and all my N.D. news is late, even though I have a subscription to the X.D. Scholastic Must admit I've been negligent in getting information to >-ou in the past but I'll tr>- to keep a good start going. 
"Just finished a teaching job at the College of Saint Rose here in Albany. Had two fine classes (mostly Sisters) In Philosophy-CriterioIog>* and Spcdal EtJiics. It was a great summer and I'm looking for^vard to tlie same job for next summer. 
'•At our seminary*—Our Lady of Angels, Niagara 

University—we IIMI a little X.D. Club of our own this past year. One of the group, REV. NORMAX A. TKACH, u-as ordained in April for the Diocese of Salt Lake City, Utati. Xorm was at X'.D. during the early years of World War II. Another member was SEB MUCCILI of Diinellen, Xew Jersc\'. He •^^•as at X.D. for two years, around '50-1-2 I bclie\-e. Our voungest is JACK DUX­XIG.\X of Buffalo, (I should say, Hamburg). Xew York. Jack spent the school years '53-4 and '54-5 at Xotrc Dame and Ls now going into Second Philosophy at Xiagara. Both of our club's 'activi­ties' were duds during tlie past year. The first— a real live pep rally before the XD-MSU game (you can't say wc didn't tr>"); the other—^a picture of the 4-man club whicli we were going to send to the Scholastic or Alumnus. Our photographer couldn't gut his flash bulbs to work even after several attempts and a hundred 'cliecses.' Then Father Tkacli went and got liimself ordained in April and that cut the force down by 25%. Tlie moral of the story is this: we'd like some more 
X.D. men for our seminar^' X.D. club. Address applications to the Rc\'. Rector, of course. 
"Ha\-cn't seen XD since I got my M.A. in 1953. But llic \isit I've tried for the past t%\'o years will probably be made this summer. Two other semi­narians and I from Xiagara will be at the CSMC convention .August 23-26. I'm mostly inter­ested in showing the other two around the beau­tiftd campus and seeing several netv buildings which I've never seen myself. The place not only grows on you but it .just grows. After tliree stops and seven cents postage due, I've finally got my latest Alumnus. As usual, >*ou've got a fine column, AL I've never missed it. You and the otlier ofHcers have done a great job keeping the class together and the column full. May you continue. Hope I can be of service—and less sad ser\'ice—again, soon." 
1 94fc J^*^*' Tenge, Jr. #-¥w 2025 West Six Mile Road Detroit 3, Michigan 
IQA T James E. Murphy 
•^^ ' 1706 Churchill Drive . South Bend 17, Indiana 
lOyeRR m^ Reunion 
June 1 7-6-9 I 

LARRY REISTER, now living in Lakcwood, X'. Y., has been in the insurance business since rcccinng a master's degree at the University- of Michigan in 1949. He is now a chartered life unden\Titcr and an assistant general agent for his company. Larr>' and his wife, a Xlichigan State graduate, have an 18-month-oId little sirl^ihf Margaret Arm. They are planning to attend th^, X'otrc Dame-Michigan Stale game and \-iMt with Larr^-'s parents who live in South Bend. 
A note from JACK MILES, also an insurance-man, tells of a visit wxtli JIM BUTLER, who is a stair announcer with KMOX, St. Louis. The Butler's have three children: Candv, Mike and Mat. 
JOHN MfVRTIX and his wife, the former Helen Miller, are expecting their fourth child in October. John, who operates the Martin Equipment Co. in Wabash, Ind., reports that FR^\XK GIORrf^ DANO, formerly of Jersey City, has joined theS* firm. Frank, his wife Marjorie, and three children recently moved to Wabash. 
BILL WISHIXG has been appointed regional sales manager for Smith, Kline and French Labora­tories with headquarters in Minneapolis. His new address is 5225 Birclicrest Drive, £di\-a, Minn. 
JOHN TOOLE and his wife, Joan, recently adopted a little girl, Laura Lawler Toole. A manu­facturer's representative. John's oflice is located at 8 Peter Cooper Road, Xew York 10, X. Y. 
GEORGE IRWIX is now working at Dupont'<j% Xiagara Falls plant. He regularly sees BILI^* GREELEY, '48, who also works there. 
DR. BILL GARXER, a Xew .Albany, Ind., sur­geon, wrote in July to say he soon expects to spend two years in the Air Force. The Garners have a daughter and a son. 
The s>Tnpathy of all '47 men goes to TONY EcVRLEY of Garden City, X*. Y., on the recent death of his father. 
DENNIS J. STARK has joined the faculty of Xoirc Dame's ph\-sical education department after seven years as aquatic director of the Soutli Bend \'MC.\. He was a Marine Corps officer duringiQ World War II and the Korean conflict. The*"^' Starks have two boys and a girl. 
EUGEXE WOZXICKI received a master of arts degree in education at Western Rcserx'e University, Cleveland, in June. 
ARTHUR FALK has been promoted to system engineering in the planning and project engineering department of the Detroit Edison Companv. 
ELMER MATTHEWS, South Orange,' .X. J., was awarded a master's degree fay Xew York Uni­versity in June. 
According to Alumni Association records, the following '47 men liavo recently moved to different cities at tlie addresses indicated: i ^ 
FRATER JOHN W. GREENE, 3514 15th St..~^ X.E., Washington, D. C. EUGEXE F. KASEy 6 Brown Terrace, Cranford, 
.X. J. LEX E. McCOY, 18783 Henry, Lansing, III. GER.VLD E. STANTON. 1005 S. Delphia Ave., 
Park Ridge, lU. JACK EASLEY, 2334 Hcston St., Rosl>-n, Pa. ROBERT FOERSTNER, 2888 X. Glen Rd.. i 
AVestlake, O. EDWARD E. Hx\MEL, 1506 South Aw., Xiagara •­Falls, X. Y. JOHN H. LrVUCK, c/o 1st Marine BrigadeJ^ FPO, San Francisco, Calif. ^-^j CLIFTON E. McPARLAXD, 4000 Lincoln A\-e., j 
Shadj'side, Ohio. j GEORGE ROBERTS. 9933 Mexia, Dallas, Tex. | EDWARD J. RUETZ, 1121 X. St. Peter St., 
South Bend, Ind. CHARLES SAMSOX. 3408 Covert Ave.. Fort Wortli, Tes. JOSEPH ZIE.M1NSKI, 2312 Cipriani Blvd., Bel­
mont, Calif. I JOSEPH R. CORCORAN, 185 Aspinwall St., i AVesthury, X. Y. ^ CLIXTON D. FIRESTONE. 525 Eric Blvd., ^ . 
SvTacusc, X^. Y. I CLEO E- MELCHER, R. R. 1, Goddard, Kans. CORNELIUS A. FOWLER, 44 Garland St., Mel­
rose-, Mass. NOEL H. GOTTESMAN, of the Class of '47, was killed in the tragic crash of a United Airlines plane in tlie Grand Canyon June 30th. He had been analytical group cluef at the Benduc Aviation Corp. research laboratories in Detroit. X'ocl rc--_ cei\-cd his B.S. degree in '47, a, master's degree ^ at N.D. in '48, and had completed all the re-," quiremonts for liis Ph.D. in math at X'.D. except his dissertation. Tlie s>'mpathy of the class has been extended to his widow and cliildren and a High ilass has been said at Notre Dame for the repose of X'ocl's soul. For tliosc of you who kne^v X'ocl personally and who may wish to wTitc his widmv, the home address is 26126 W>-oming, Huntington Woods, Midi. JOHN MAKER joined tlic faculty of St. Augus­tine High School, San Diego, Calif., this fall 
•where he joins two,-other X'otrc Dame alumni,^|^ 
Two stalwarts of the 1951 class are Father 

^asil (Vernon Burkhart), O.S.B. (left) and 
9 Bill KIce. 
THOMAS a\RTER, '51, and JACK MURPHY, '51. 
(Ed. Note: Your class sccrctao', JIM MURPHY, has accepted the lt>c3l cliainnansliip for the big 10-year reunion coming up next June 7-8-9. Any suggestions that you have for the xvcekend will be grcativ appreciated bv him and bv the Alumni 

^fiicc. JC). 
1948 Herman A. Zitt 
• '^' ' 635 Belmont Park, No. Dayton, Ohio 
1949 •i^^^ Walker 
• '^ ' 826 Wing Street 
Elgin, Illinois 
Ct\RL APONE is city editor of the Brownsville (Pa.) Telegraph and correspondent for the Pitts­burgh Post-Gazette. He recently had a personal 

•icrvieu- with COL. FRANCIS GABRESKI, Tamous pilot of World War H and the Korean War as well as a member of the 1942 Class. 
I OCA Richard F. Hahn 
•'^ " 6930 North Odcll Chicago 31, Illinois 
GUS CIFELLI, now living in Detroit, was a recent speaker at the Northwest Detroit First Fri­day Club. Gus told his audience about the daily schedule of football players at Xolrc Dame bcgin­

^ung with Mass at 6 a.ni. VLE O JAMES SCHMITT has a new address at 372G Harding Avenue, Cincinnati 11, Ohio. 
MICHAEL G. DelDUaV reecived a doctor of phi­losophy degree in chemistr>- recently at Western Rescr\'e University. 
RICHARD O. MAHER was the recipient of a master of arts degree in phjrsical education at Western Reser\'c University's annual summer com­mencement. 
195 1 Ro^ci*^ J- Klingenherger 2634 Marcy Lane 

• 
«
Ft. Wayne, Indiana An apolog>* is due. For some uncxplainabic reason, I completely missed the deadline in getting notes to Notre Dame for the last edition. I'm grateful to many of you for your comments of appreciation on tliis column and I'll lr>' to do my best in future editions. You all have read the list of reunion attendees in the last column and needless to say wc had a real good group back after five interesting years. nvevcr, a lot of classmates were missed and re's the reason for some of them— DICK MacDONx\LD was in the wedding of a good friend. BILL COONEY, who is in the scr\"ice, is cur­rently stationed with the Judge Adv-ocate General's office in Korea. TOM LOGAN was completing a year at Indiana Law School in the capacity of fellowship. Inci­dentally, he is back in Fort Wayne with the law-firm of Rothbcrg, Gallmcyer, Doemer and Strutz and is H\-ing at 2009 Curdes. PAT O'SULLIVAN «-as there briefly (2 hours) ^ his \v3.y to Aurora, III., with Maureen Mac­
Donald. Tlie reason came out a couple of weeks ago when Sully wrote that they arc engaged and are planning a wedding this winter. He finished Miciiigan Law School this summer and will start practicing with his father in Port Huron, Midi. 
BILL ANHUT's reason comes in the form of an announcement. Bom on June 10, an 8 pound boy, Charles Robert Anhut. Congratulations, Bill, but we missed >'ou. 
H.\NK .MADDEN, now at 1014 Englewood Ave.. Chattanooga 5, Tenn., is xvorking in Tennessee since his release from the U. S. Na\'j' and having been there for only a few months was unable to get awav for the Reunion. 
JOHN ALLPORT received his doctor of philoso­phv in ph>'sics from Princeton this June. 
PRESTON .MURPHY received a doctor of phi­losophy degree from Washington University in June. 
JERRY KAVANAUGH is beginning his second year of fellotvship in internal medicine at the Mayo Clinis in Rochester, Minn. He and his wife have two children. Ann Claire and Joseph Kevin. 
BILL KLEE was married on June 30 to the former Miss Dorothy Dubcs of Columbus, Ohio. Tlicy arc living in Lima, Ohio, where Bill Is writing a>nimcrcisls for the local TV station. 
NATHxVN J. CLIFFORD graduated from the Ci>lorado Sdiool of Medicine on June 8. 
GEORGE J. BERRY graduated from Loyola Universitv's Stritch School of Medicine on June 13. 

R.ALPH SJOBERG, 1003 Fourth St., N.W., Wavcrly, Iowa, has had several jobs since leading in '51 and is now a project engineer with Schield Bantons Company. Ralph is married and has two sons, Craig and Dave. Dave was born on June 5— consequently Ralph missed our reunion. Ralph also writes that TOM BOU\ND Is working with McDonald Aircraft in St. Louis. 
JACK WEISEND, now a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Na\->-, is currently stationed in Philadelphia and has decided to go into the regular Na\y. His permanent address Is his home, 558 East 222nd St., Euclid 23, Ohio, while his current ser\*ice address is Disbursing Officer, Comptroller Dept., Code 660, Na\-al Ship Yard. Philadelphia, Pa. Jack couldn't make the reunion because Uncle Sam, had other plans. 
AL L/VPORTE has been attending Law School at Vanderbilt and expects to graduate next June. .Al Ls married and has two children, Al, Jr., and Shcr>-1 Lynn. Shcr\l Lynn was bom on June 4. This explains Al's absence at the reunion. Al also is to be managing editor of the Law Review for next year. 
HO.MER BARTON, 2524 South Cherokee Dr., Owensboro. Ky., is with the Texas Gas Trans­mission Corporation after having his employment bntken up with a couple of years with the Naw. He vvas married on April 7, 1953, to the former Miss Eleanor Fiqua of Owensboro. Homer was unable to make the reunion because he was tem­porarily located In Monroe, La., on field construc­tion. 
JOHN BROWNE'S address is Comer of 5ih and Court, Clay Center, Kansas. John Is married and has three children. He also owns and oper­ates a women's department store. John's getting active in politics and running as a candidate for State Senator. Gfxxl luck, John. 
Other information about some felIo\vs who at­

tended the reunion and others who did not. 
ANDY WALSH, 70-3 Drcxclbrook Dr., Drexel 

Hill. Pa., is working In Philadelphia with G.E. 
BILL WHITESIDE is in the Air Force in Tm­

mansberg, N. Y., and he is married and has t%vo 
children. 
ED MEj\GHER is a commercial engineer with 

CBS-Hytron, a division of Columbia Broadcasting 
Svstcm, Inc., working out of Chicago. His ad­
dress is 10838 So. Fairfield, Chicago, III. 
JOHN HALEY is witli U. S. Rubber Company 

In Mishau'aka, Ind. He is working In development 
sales, and was recently married to Miss Nancy 
Driscoll. 
BOB EDMONDSON, 60 E. 96tli St., New York 

28, N. Y., is married and working with Time 
Incorporated in the accounting department. 
KEN THOREN Is married and Imng in New 

Rochelle, N. Y. He is with Benton & Bowles, 
an ad\'ertising agency at 444 Madison, New York, 
N. Y. ­JOHN BECKER'S address is 626 So. Austin Blvd., Oak Park, Illinois. JOHN JANOWSKI is married and living in South Bend, Ind. He Is working in advertising and public rrlations with Associates Investment Company. PATRICK J. BARRETT is attending medical sdiool and HWng at 5916 Goodman St., Mcrriam, Kansas. JOHN O'NEILL'S address Is 7835 Chestnut, Hammond, Ind. He Is married and has twin boys SYs years old and another son 2 years old. 
He is working with Inland Steel Company in the Chicago office. 
JOHN A. DEEB Is back In Grand Rapids, Mich., and practicing with the firm of Dccb, Dunn and Elferdlnk with offices located at 600 Mldiigan Tnist Building. 
TO.M C^\NFIELD was recently named head coach and athletic director at the new Central Catholic High School in St. Petersburg, Fla. He and his wife have three girls. 
Congratulations and best wishes to TOM CAR­ROLL who married the former Miss Jane S. Flynn of Chicago on June 30. Tom and Jane arc living in Racine, Wis., at 917 Main Street. 
Learned at the reunion that JACK CORYN is practicing law In Moline, III. H.\RVEY .O'NEILL is still In Peru, Ind.. and managing a "chemical fertilizer plant. JACK GARTL.\ND Is also liring in Peru. Ind. HARRY HxVNIGAN Is working with his father In Chicago. PAT HENRY Is working, I believe practicing law in South Bend. JLM HENNESSEY is working with his father selling insurance In Louisville, Ky., and they now have two diildren. HERSH HARVEY was just being 
CHICAGO—Participants in the cIuVs Freshman-Fathers event dined together prior to the affair. Left to right: Robert E. ^Vright, president; Joe McCabc, immediate past president; Rev. Thomas J. O^Donnell, C.S.C., associate director of the Notre Dame Foundation and guest speaker; Don Hardin, Jr., co-chairman; Frank Matavosky, co-chairman; Basketball Coach John Jordan, guest speaker; and Phil Facccnda, secretary. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Nov.-Dec, 1956 57 
The John Browne, '51, family includes John Sr., Mike, Mrs. Bro%\'ne, John Jr. (front) and Mary Helen. 
released from the ser\-ice at the time of tlie it is due. on behalf of the Class of '51, thank reunion. JACK MURRAY is li\-ing in Statcn you BUDDY POWERS and JIM FRICK for co-Island. X. Y. JIM BATES is practicing law in chairmanning our rcimion. You both did a ter­Fort Wayne. rific job. 
DANIEL BRENXAX is working toward his Ph.D. degree at the University of Arizona. WILBUR 1 952 Harry L. Buch GRUNDY is employed as a geologist for the ' '^^
 986 National Road 
U.S.A.E.C., Grand Junction, Colo. DICK GOD­
SOX was discharged from the Marines and entered 
WTiecIing, West Virginia 
the University of Texas in 1933. JIM HILLE-. 
BRAND is working in Ouray, Colorado. GEORGE 
JANSEX is working in Washington, D. C. 
BILL JONAK will be discharged from the Xa\->­in Xo\-cmber, He is married to the former Joyce Overton of Portsmouth, Va. 

OTTO KOPP received a masters degree from Columbia and is going on for a Ph.D. whidi he expects to recrave in June, 1957. He is also doing 7-5-P I outside research for the Texas Company. 
DON JORDAN is employed by tlic State De­partment of Conservation, Water Resources Divi­sion in Indianapolis, Ind. WILBERT ODEM is a geologist for the California Petroleum Company in New Orleans. 
DAX'E SMITH received a masters degree from 

Stanford and is now working for his Ph.D. He Have received quite a bit of news since the last and his wife are the parents of a daughter, Kath­Alumnus. Keep the news coming and I'll do my leen, born on Jannarv 1. best to keep all of the class of '52 informrrd. 
EDMOXD TONTI received his Ph.D. from Lou­

Mr. and Mm. DAVE McBRIDE have a new isiana State University in 1955 and is now em-daugiiter, Mar\' Ellen, bom August 31, 1956. Sev­plojxd by tlie California Petroleum Company in eral boys in the San Francisco Bay Area got New Orleans. together for old times sak=. DAN C\UFIELD 
SOL DAVISOX has recently joined Shell De­graciouslv hrjd open house. In attendance were velopment Company's Research Center (Emeryville, BOB BARTZ, GUV EMANULE, JIM MUL-Calif.) as a chemist in the plastics and resin LANEY, JACK NEUMEYER, and NORM RAB-department. Until June of this year, lie was a BEX. Might add that all the boys known to be rcsearcli associate! at the Massacliusetts Institute 
in tlic area attended xvhich indicates that the old of Tcclinology. class is not forgotten. April 21 was a happy day 
J. A. BETTEXCOURT, JR., is a medical officer for Jim. He married Pegg>' ^lulholland of Oak­with a lieutenant's rank and stationed at the land, formerly a pretty st-wardess with American 
U. &. XaxTil Construction Battalion Center, Da\'i5-Airlines. Jim now claims he has his feet on the \-ilIc, R. I. He and Mrs. Bettencourt are tin ground. parents of a son bom last spring. Joe has LT. JAMES M. HAWES, JR. is now serving successfully finished his internship at Cambridge 
with the Air Force in Japan. He is a personnel City Hospital and participated in all three parts officer at Chettasc. JOHN W. SQUILLER u ^ of the X'ational Boards. He states that he is ordained on June 14 after graduating from St. 
 for license. 

now ready a Joscphat's Scminar>* and Catholic University. He 
JACK MURPHY, upon rccciWng his masters is a member of the B\'zanIinc-Sla^x>nic Rite. His degree from Indiana University, accepted the post first assignment is as assistant pastor of SS Peter of head . track coacli and assistant football coach and Paul Church, Ansonia, Conn. at St. Augustine High School, San Diego where BERNARD J. AVOOD, fresh from a two-year he will work with classmate TOM CARTER, who tour of active duty in the Army, is presently with is head football coadi. the Chemical Ph>-sics Department of Stanford Re­
Tliat's all for tltis time and ginng credit %vlicre search Institute. He has been in this area since 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec.^ 1956 
pher John, and daughter. Teresa Marie. TOrtOr 
EXGLEHART after his tour of duty w^th the 
Army settled down in Princeton, New Jersey where 
he now works as a statistician for Princeton 
University. Their present address is 96 Ironwood 
Drive, Levittown, Pa. TED GORDON is in De­
troit and ^vorking for Parke Daxis & Companv. 
BILL (RANDY) JOHNSON got his .Master's 
degree in Cliemistr\' at X.D. in 1952 and after 
a short stint in the Army headed for the Uni­
versity of Pennsylvania where he is noiv working 
on bis doctorate under C. C. Price. BOB FRUIJ^*^ 
after his scmcc time, returned to the Windy^ 
City and at last report was inter\'iewing pros­
pective employers. HENRY GUSHING is teaching 
English at Vil|ano\*a University and with his wife '• 
and two cliildren lives at 309 Ist Avenue, Newtown 
Square. Pa. 
EARL MOCK, the famed "belchor of Zahm 
Hall" was stationed at Army Chemical Center for 
a few montlis before his discliarge and at last 
report was headed for Kent State University to do 
graduate work in accounting. LEONARD KIL­
LIAN* who had been working for Bauscli £: Loi^fli 
in Rochester was called by Uncle Sam and it ilT 
believed he is stationed at Aberdeen Proving 
Grounds. DOX GEORGEN' is working for an ac­
counting limi in the Chicago area. 
LOU GARIPPO graduated from DcPauI law 
school in June, passed the bar exam, and was 
drafted Into the Army. He Is stationed at Fort 
Lewis, Wash. I know how you feel, Lou. BILL 
SAXTIXI, JR., after doing a stint in that fast 
growing organization—the Army—is now living In 
Greensljurg. Pa., with his wife and son. He is 
doing the 9-5 routine with Westinglioiise and at­
tending school at Pitt in the evenings. Said to glTi^ 
his best to WALLY SWEEXEY and to remind IiinT 
that the Yankees won the pennant again. 
DAXIEL F. DEMPSEV has been appointed as­sistant professor of physics at Canisius College after receiving his doctorate at Notre Dame this past June. LEO WALLACE BRUCE graduated from Commerce in '52, received his masters at .. Midilgan In '53 and started work in the Detroit ; Bank. He was drafted into tlic Army in '53 and , served 16 montlis as a corporal in Germany. At present he is in the credit department of tlic Detroit Bank and his address is 714 Parker Ave., Detroit, Mich. ROBERT CVRVILLE is empIoyejU by Hunt Oil Company, Midland, Texas. WILLIA.^^ HASKINS is employed by Carter Oil Company, Box 566, Minot. North Dakota. 
GEORGE MOORE will finish graduate studies ; at Indiana University for PIi.D. He plans on ! working for the California Company at the BIl-; lings, Montana office. K.VRL HOOVER is em­ployed by the Ohio Geological Sur\'cy and a second ; son, Daniel Joseph, was bom December 31. 1955. ,' DOXALD RILEY was working in Binghamtoa, \ X^ew York and North Adams, Mass. on flood con-! trol project for Corps of Engineers. He expected \ to be drafted in January, 1956. LOUIS REIG^j has a teaching asslstantshlp at the University A i Pittsburgh, working for Ph.D. He Is working paft f time for the Pennsylvania Geological Sur\"cy. f 
TOXY CRITELLI graduated from the Law | School of Drake University with a J.D. He passed! the Iowa Bar exam In '55 and has set up prac-s tice In Des Moines. Tony would like to get In^ toucli with his old crew from Badin and Sorin.g' ED D'ARCY, GUS GERWE, etc. Tony's addressfi Is 1220 Savings and Loan Bldg., Dcs Moincs,|' Iowa. Drop the old Glnz a line. WALLY PUR-| CELL has been seen running around in a Jaguar. S BOB MOTENSEX was married on .April 5th. ^ ^ 

WILLIAM E. TOOMEY received his commrssitS in the Xaw, April 30. 195G, ED FOLEY, TOM j HANRAHAN, and TO.M E.MORY arc mth tlic| FBI In X'e^v York. Ed Is married with one boyf , and another scheduled for arrli'al in Scptembcr.| | JACK BURBRIDGE has a teacliing-coacliing job| ! at a Catholic High Scliool In nortliern X'eiv Jer-f se>-. TOM COMISKEY is out of the Army andl back in New Rodiellc, N. Y. Presently he is; j working for the General Motors Acceptance Corp.l 
FRANK ROXNENBERG is out of the Na\-y and last known to be considering going to sea as JM mercliant officer. After two years in the A^l Force, BOB FINK is at Law ScIiool at Fordham. Also at the Law Scliool are SAL FIORELLA and JIM MAXXIXG. JIMMY POWERS is li\-ing in New York City and is \vorking as a salesman for Procter and Gamble. 
ED PERT, an FBI agent In Dallas after a couple of years in the Marines, was married in Phocnuc in the spring and last known to be an expectant father. JIM MULLxVNEY and HAXK CROWLEY arc with the FBI in San Francisco, and Los An-b* gelcs respectively. AXDY DOOLEY Is with a ce-j ment company in Taunton, Mass. GEORGE ir* 
^^ILEY last known to be living in XYC and forkin g for an accounting firm. JOHN CROXIN's last known address w-as a medical school in Irt.*land and CHARLIE De-PRIXKEL was last known to be working the I'epsi Cola francliLse in Saginaw, Midi., with his brother. ANGELO aVRIDEO, after two years in the Marines, is at home. Ml. Vernon, N. Y, work­ing as a salesman, married and a father. ERNIE M^\SIXI is living at home and working in the NYC financial district. GEORGE GROSS is teaching in the Cleveland ^^tool system. BILL HOUEY is married and the ^Bther 'of a boy. He is coaching football and skiing at the Lake Placid H. S. PAT FLE.MLVG is working in his father's paint store in Butte, Mont. PAT O»D0NNELL is with Shell Oil Co. in Billings. JIM DONNELLY is in the Air Force as a lieutenant stationed in Detroit. JOHN C«\S-TELLr\NI is basketball coach at the University of Seattle. WILLIAM P. HARVEY, formerly of Albuquer­que, N. M., has recently accepted emplo\-ment in Chicago and his new address ts 2027 Grace Street, 
^licago 18, III. 
"jOH X R. BARRETT has resigned as legal as­sistant to Chief Judge Albert Conway of New York's Court of Appeals to join the legal depart­ment of General Aniline and Film Corporation. John received a law degree from the University of Virginia in 1955. He resides at 8801 Shore Road, Brooklyn, New York. Well that dors it for this writing. Many thanks for the information. Keep the news coming and I'll do the best I can in relaying your where­abouts. I feel like Dorothy Kilgallen after this writing. 
Thomas W. Reedy 

^ 953 
337 Wagner Road Northficld, Illinois 

JOHX F. GELSOX and his wife arc now the proud parents of two diildren, John, Jr., and Elizabeth Marie. 
195 4 George A. Pflauni, Jr. I #WT 200 Squirrel Road Dayton 5, Ohio 
^PWith three dilTercnt addresses in as many months I'm afraid that mail from the class might still be trailing after mc as I sit down to t>*pc out this quarter's dope sheet. Being somewhat associated with these printing deadlines and the difficult situation you put one in when failing to meet same, I am going aliead and prepare this meager efTort for our good editors. If you fail to sec your forewarded info in here I'd appreciate hearing from you so that I can include it in the ncM edition. 
Swinging into the mail I run into a note from AL SUWALSK.Y who stated that he is in doubt 
^piere a set of September orders from the Corp'f would exactly place him, but Japan or Okinaw*a were good bets. Al furnished the latest word on GENE HOWLEY, who is somewhere In Turkey acting as an air operations officer with a Xaxy squadron. PAT O'ALVLLEY graduated from Law School at Notre Dome in June and is presently serving with the Marines at Quanlico. The next piece of mail is a formal looking thing proclaim­ing the marriage of PAUL (HO.MER) TIERNEV to the former Miss Mar\' Dewsberry in Chicago on the eighth of September. Not a doubt in my mind tliat the Army Medical 
• r\*ice School at Fort Sam Houston, Texas has enjoyed the finest of decorations at all of their base socials over the past year or so. That expert of Senior Ball decorating fame, LEE B.\Z.-\NY, recently completed a tour of duty there in the personnel section. Prior to that he was at ChafTee with so many other *54 men. TOM "SOLAS was in the same company with him there. Tom, by tho way, is the proud father of a young daughter. Lee shared a company assignment with IGGIE MORIART\' at Houston, but can now be found at 
^j^6 N. Olonto Ave., Chicago 31, III. Lee reports Wa t BOB ADAMS is in Neu^iort OCS headed for a commission in the Na\y Supply Corps. 
Another engraved and formal pi?ce of corre­spondence announces the marriage of the former Miss Patricia Quinter to DAVE MEAGHER on the sixteenth of June at Camp Pendleion, Cali­fornia. Received the following from JACK MER­TEXS . . . "Right after graduation I was mar­ried and w'c now have two fine boys, John, Jr. and Mike. Uncle Sam has treated mc well in regards to the Army. After Fort Sill I ser\'cd with C Battcrv' 58 FA Bn. Upon deactivation of 
Jkp unit I \vas assigned to Fort Bragg. Current 
duties are Batter>- Commander of Service Battery 
739 FA Bn and the BnS-4. In November I leave the Army and will join S. O. Licdesdorf and Co. of CP^Vs. Heard from TED EWiNG who will be back in the States soon after seeing Europe with 
the Army. I*d appreciate it if >*ou would forcward JACK RIVA's address if you have it.' For those of >"ou interested in big Naxy brass and the brains behind it all, you'll be interested in seeing LT. 
Us) MIKE MAHONEY, who is personal aide and flog lieutenant for the Admiral in charge of Fleet Activitier, Yokosuka, Japan. Congratulations, Mike, wish you could have held that title when JAKE NOONAX* was in those waters, he used to look for good contacts for introductions to Admi­lals' daughters. 
GEORGE DOLAK lifted the shroud of secrecy that co\-ers his work with the army intelligence long enough to inform that he has recently become engaged to Miss Jo\'cc Cosgrove of Minneapolis. George is lucky enough to be stationed in Chicago, his home town. George reports that DICK HONINGFORD is stationed in France with the Air Force, DICK ROSENTHAL is stationed at Fifth Amiv headquarters in Chicago, as is BILL FAG/VN. PETE PALUGI w ^ recently disccliarged from tlic /\rmy and is following the Law School curriculum at University of Alabama. L:\RRV (JOE) LcBL/VXC reports in from his Army station at Fort Wayne, Michigan, a lucky seven miles from his home. Larr>' was stationed in Puerto Rico with JOHX SCHLEGEL until last April at whicJi time he w*as selected to represent the Army in the Olympic Rowing Tr\"outs. He went all the way to the scmifinab in the pair-oared shell class before being eliminated. 
JLM FRE.MGE.X from Apt. 7, 2588 Sherman, North Bend, Oregon, sends the following: ".. . I wvnt to Coast Guard OCS after receiWng my masters in business at Indiana University last June. At present I am stationed aboard the Coast Guard Cutter, Bonham, in Coos Bay, Oregon. On May 12. I9JG, I was married to the fonner Miss Eleanor Slicko in East Chicago, Indi­ana. I understand that LT. BOB INEICH is now teacliing at Lowry AFB in Denver, TOM STUB­LER is stationed at Fort Benning and ROLrVND DAIGN'AULT is working at a hospital in Boston." ROBERT L. LEH/\NE has been promoted to project engineer at the Product Development Labo­ratorv' of the International Business Sfachinc Co. An August graduate of Marquette University was GORDON BERGQUIST, who received a master of arts. EDWARD H. BROWN, JR. has recently been appointed to the position of account executive for tho E. H. Brown Advertising .-\geno*, Chicago. 
Two *54 men received advanced degrees from Har­'vard University at commencement exercises held in Jun^. ALVIN DOXIUS received a master in business administration degree and CHARLES TROZZO received a master of arts degree. JOHN . KOSCA received a masters degree in en^neering 
(plastics) from Princton in June. 
I had a nice long letter from JOHN DONAHER, JR. from Company A, Signal Battalion, Fort Meade, Mar>-land. John is actively engaged as the Battalion's Public Information Specialist and is busy writing tho history of his outfit. CHARLES MIXCK is about to retire from Army life and leave his position with the Quartermaster Corps at Camp Drum, Xc%v York. DAN BRUCE re­ports that he has reached the halfway mark in med school at the University of Tennessee and is now living at 1051 Lane Ave., Memphis, Tenn. He reports that JOHN GLASGOW is living in Saint Louis on 6186 Pershing Road. COXXIE SZUBERT sends from his 425 S. 25tli St., South Bend, address the following list of engineers from the class of '54 who received their masters degrees from Notre Dame thb last spring: BILL CARSON, CHi\RLEY ALLEN, Cx\RL BIVER and JERRY BR^VINERD. JOE MEAD reported in from Fort Holabird just 23 days short of being a civilian again, but left no forwarding address. TONY G.\RRUTO has retired from the Na\-y and is in med school at Lo>-ola of Chicago. While in the service he ran into PHIL BREHM who is a navi­gator with MATS. Tony is engaged to Miss Peggy Murray (SMC) of Hobart, Indiana. 
M. J. BEAUDINE is living at 503 W. Decatur St., Decatur, Illinois and is working in his field of chemical engineering in that area. He reports seeing JACK (GREEK) Prm\ S and family and all is well with Jack who is presently enroIW at Georgetown Law- School. NED SEI^f is finish­ing up a military* tour at Fort Belvoir prior to his early fall return to the business world in Wis­consin. Milt reports seeing first hand JOHN GROSSPIETSCH's young son for whom John has rescr\'cd a first string tackle spot on the 1976 Notre Dame line. D.AN WH/VLEN of Batry B-605 Misl. Rn. (NIKE), Danvers, Mass., reports a year to do for Uncle Sugar and would enjoy having anyone in the area drop over to his missal range. He reports seeing JIM HURLEY recently. Jim is planning to continue toward a masters degree in English in the East this fall. 
Had the pleasure of the GP POOP Sheet, a major competitor of this magazine, in which I found the following poop. DAVID BURRELL, G.S.C. left this fall for four years of thcolog>- in Rome and is located in Collegia De Sancta Cnice, 19 Via 
M'ASHINGTON, D. C—J. Hal Roddy (left), was the club's golf day toumey winner. Dr. George Green (center) served as chairman of the event and Dr. Matt Sullivan is club president. 
• > "^j^::.., '~--\ 
•j­
ftSI
SgV:-5;! 
.'*= 
-• 
•'-"i^-:*'', 
I'g-;:^ 
l#f'5! 
IjgSijS 
l^S« 
im^ 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec.y 1956 
Arclia Antica. JIM CANNON is working on his Ph.D. in philosophy al Yale, BOB DINEAN is associatf^ with tlic Finance and Accounting Office at the Boston Amiy Base, Boston 10, Mass. JOHN DONOHUE has finished his Novitiate training with ihc Mar>'knoIl Fathers and is continuing his studies at Mar>knoIL N. Y. TOM FIELD is a student at Balliol College in the University of Oxford at Oxford, England in the field of political phi­losophy. PETE FILANK is attending Seton Hall to complftc llic ncceisarv- course requirements to teach in high schools. He is living at 695 S. Olden Ave.. Trenton, N. J. JOHN GRIFFIN IS scr\"ing alroard the USS Grouse, MSC (0) 15, F.P.O.. New York, N. Y. JIM SKEESE is the First Sergeant ta the coitvah'sccnt ward at Madi­gan Amiy Hospital, Tacoma. Wash. TOM SCHWIETZ is bus\' piloting B-47s and can be found in the of! hours at 14460 S.W. 291st St., Leisure City, Florida. 
A special "Motor City'' report was contriliutod by TOM MOORE just prior to his start of his second year at Wayne nied scliool in Detroit. Tom was married to the former Miss Eleanor Kies­wetter of Fcmdalc, Michigan on September first, JOHN SCHLEGEL is also working toward an ad­x'anced d'.'grcc in the city, at the University of Detroit. Delrwit's PAUL KELLEY is in his third year of med sch(K>I at the University of Michigan while BILL CONLEY matches that year at Loy­ola of Chicago. L/\RRY DOL.-\N is with the Marines at Quanlico. 
TIic following were recent graduates of Na\-v OCS at NewTJort. R. I.; MIKE CELESTE, FRAN ROMANCE and CHARLES VOEHRLVGER. BOB VAN HOENE reports a scant 300 days to do as a 
Harr>* Brown, '47, Grand Rapids, Mich., artist, has donated scxeral paintings to the University. A recent gift was the Notre Danic campus scene (shown here) while an­other was a portrait of Father Langc. 
nangator on a KC-97 tanker at Forbes AFB, Topeka, Kansas. JERRY DIXON is stationed at Wright-Patterson AFB in Dayton in the indus­trial procurement department. BILL NOONAN reports that he hopes to finish his Army duty with­out ever having been more than a fantastic 140 mllrs from home. He dc\-oted his time to a NIKE outfit outside of Philadelphia. Bill sends . . . JACK SANDS is in the Army and at Ft. Hood, Texas where he edits the post ncivspapcr, works on the local paper and claims he likes the Texas climate. BOB FROLICHER is witli the Army at Ft. Holabird. Md. and engaged in public rt-lations work. AVALLY STAUDER is in the Army with a medical outfit in Germany but expects lo be back in-October. GEORGE BOEH.M is a 
cliaplain^s assistant and has seen a bit of Europe through the courtesy of the Army. KEN MUR­PHY is in Gennany acting as a TI&E with an arliller>' outfit. 
JOHN .M.ANNION is a navigator with the Air Force and lucky enough to have his family w-ith him at 733A Judd St., Honolulu, T. H. John rrpoits seeing AL AV.ALTER before leaving the States and he found him looking fit and a good prospect for coming president of X.Y. Life. BILL GUILFOILE continues to hold the Navv together on the USS Snyder DE(745), F.P.O., N.Y. Sure am glad that some of ynu lads are sticking with it so that sonic of us older hand.i could retire from that noble association of trusty mariners. 
Had a nice note from BOB McGLYNN in which he passes on the following . . . '*We moved from South Bend to Saint Louis on the sixth of July. 1 finished my administrative rcsidenc>- at Snulh Bend Memorial on the thirteenth uf June, thus completing my work for the degree of Master of Hospital Administration. In the latter part of ^tay, after a month of nr^otiations. 1 was appointed Instructor Jn Hospital Administration in the Graduate School of St. Louis University, and As­sistant Director. Department of Hospital Adminis­tration, Catholic Hospital ^Vssociation of the U.S. and Canada. In my capacity as instructor I am to teach several courses in the Organization and .'Vdminislration of Hospitals, the Administration of Public Health, and coordinate and advise- the stu­dents in the writing of their essay. The latter pha^-ie Is concerned with advising Catholic hospitals witli regard to problems in administration; I'm also supposed to do some writing for the CHA journal. Hospital Progress.'* 
Heard fnmi DICK PILGER from University of California where he has been doing graduate work in nuclear cliemistr\' and h scheduled to receive his Ph.D. next Jun*,*. He has recently bectiine engaged to Miss Patricia Mc/\ndrews (SMC '54) of BinghaiiHon. New York. Dick saw BOB WEI­LER last summer at the UC Radiation Labura­torv. Bob is in the Universitv of Chicago School of .Medicine. JOHN NORTON is with the Navy at Na\-\- Air Station, Brunswick, Maine and had the joy of a future pilot when John Jr. landed there on September ciglilli of lliis year. JERRY HORTON reports in from 308 Arlington Ave., Lawton, Oklalmma. Jerry worked for some time after graduation with the Army Corps of Engi­neers in Boston before he received his call to arms. At present he is an Inspector whh the Post Engi­neer at Fort Sill. 
Tliat's it from here, have enjoyed hearing from all of you, might offer that due to many a mill-tar>' cliangc. much of tliis info might quickly .be outdated. If you find it the case with you or any of your friends, drop me a card to bring the record up to date. 
10CC Ens. Thomas F. O^AIalley 
I w^^ g^gg Kenwood 
Kansas City, Missouri 

Well, It^s class column time again and it only seems a short while since I was writing the last one. I'll start by thanking those 'who wrote this time and provided the news that makes this col­umn possible. It was good hearing from all of you and I hope that you continue »miing. It's your news that makes the nzws, so I'm depending on you. 
I received a call the other night from DAVE METZ who was passing through Kansas City on his way to the coast. Dave had just completed a few months' duty as recruiting officer for the Navy in the Chicago area and has now drawn an aircraft intelligence job in California. Wc had a long cliat over many foamy ones and the next day lie left on his cross-country. Before he got to the door, I received some class n<;vvs from him, and glad I was to get it. TOM WELLY is hold­ing forth at OCS at Newport and is probably very 
close to finishing by now. STEVE REBOI^* completed OCS in June and went aboard the U.S.i^ Hollistcr which operatrs out of Marc Island. Calif. MIKE WARD is working for the /Vssocialed Press but I haven't heard where. Maybe Mike could write and let us in on the secret. JOE M.-VDI­G/\N u"3s married recently and is living in Cleve­land. Haven't heard any particulars on this either but I'm waiting for the news. BILL Li\R­KIN continues burning the midnight oil at Xavier University in Cincinnati where he is working for his masters di-grce. ED FOX still has Notre Dame a; his address while attending law scht^^ there and is working for a law firm during tli ^ summer. The only word that I have on GEORGE MEYERS Is that he was drafted and I can assure him that he has the sympathy of the class. Actually, it can't be that bad. or can it? JERRY PRv\SS.\S is still moving along with the Air Force and has now completed his pre-llight training. From here I understand he goes into multi-engine work. .An­other OC^ graduate is JOE KE^VRNEY who has been sent to Damage Control School in Phila­delphia. 
At last the Air Force news starts to cor^j^ through and I'll begin with the letter that I ri?^ ceived from BOB PHILLIPS. Bob is in the busi­ness of navigation al Ellington Air Force Base in Houston, Texas. He mentions that he's been there since November so apparently his papers have been lost in the Bureau of Personnel. Bob can he reached by addressing mail to Box 1155 at the above basr. The news to follow comes from his letter: DICK O'DONNELL has been sent to Pan­ama City, Fla. for G.C.I, training. I hope that Dick writes and explains this G.C.L business. Sounds Interesting. GEORGE DONAHUE and WALT L/\NGFORD (Ed. Note: Walt was inarri,Q recently, and he and his wife are going to JapaiT. JC). are due to graduate frtmi Ellington soon but I haven't had any word as to where they go from there. DICK SCHERER is at Ellington also and will be transferred sometime next year. Rumor has it that JIM PAVI S is at MiKjre Air Force Base for pilot training;, JIM TOOHEY, when heard from • last, was \M>rking in California for an oil company. Dn>p a line. Jim. and fill iis in on the particulars. .MARTY REINHART and REGGIE GRLMM are both working for Monsanlo Cheinlcal Co. in Texas City, Texas. R'*ggie was married last summer. Also spending some time in the Air Force is JOH ^ LOCHT who is stationed at Harlinger Air Foi. ^ Base and Is studying navigation. Not far from South Bend we find RUDY CINDER who works for U.S. Steel In Gar*'. I understand that lie is on , a leave of absence so that he can get a little; more studying done at the Carnegie Institute in Pittsburgh. ED BAUM is in East Chicago working for Socony Mobil Co. After touring Gennany with the Air Force picking up the tal), GERRYi SCHOENHERR is now stationed in CoIumb\is, Ohio. Good work If you can get it. [ 
ART SULLIVAN sends .\ir Force greetings ini the form of a vcr>- interesting and newsy lett*^: Art wxs hoiuc In St. Paul, Minnesota when ^ R wrote the letter but he mentions that he's on hisj way to Vance Air Force Base in Enid, Oklahoma.? Here, if all goes well, he'll receive his wings in| Sovetnher and will be assigned i» iHiilti-cngine aircraft. I'll pass some of Art's news alongJ BILL KILBURG, JIM VACRIS, and BILL C.VN-! NING were with Art for a time but have moved, on to further training. RALPH GUGLIELMI Was sent lo Marana Air Force Base in March' and is in flight training there. BOB RUSSELL isj on his way to Korea as an observer In the radarj division and wonders if the Yalu River water v^k hornt the finish on his new Oldsmobile convertible.^ ED (BUCKY) J.VNSSEN is working in the sales 
department of Hamin's Brewery*. I hear that Ed-is the proud father of a baby girl, born last May| Congratulations. Buck, and be sure to send me a, picture after you have the first tliousand run oft for distribution. Tiic word Is that PETE RITTEN^ is now In New Jersey waiting to be sent over to France via Army transportation. No matter which way he goes, it doesn't sound like a bad deal.> JOHN RUSSO is still 'pl"S5ln5 a«'ay at Columbia! Law School. MS 
HARRY EDELSTEIN dropped iiic a line ant^ submitted his bid for the ''martyr of the year'1 award. It seems that the Air Force needed an officer to handle operations on Middlcton Island,' Alaska and after due consideration, picked Ifarry^ for the job. Tlie location is within weekend distance of S<:beria and is Inhabited by 36 enlisted men and Lt. Harr>'. A commanding officer yct^ Pouring salt in tlie ivounds wc discover tliat Ifarryi has recently become engaged to Miss Diane Elliott who lives in California. Tlic date of the weddinjr is indefinite due to his polar expedition. H<: 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 

«
ses along some furthtT news about Ellington Force Base and raenlions that BILL STOUT­
BURGH. KEN WOODFORD, TOM MARKO. 
and \VALT ZOTTER are receiving their wings in the Observer program there. JIM IRWIN is en­gaged to a Texas girl and is stationed at Chanute Air Force Base. Kh'nois. /\s a parting note, Harrv' can be reached by writing to him at 3460 Stttron. Box 154, Warren AFB, Wyoming. DON MERDIAN writes that he is hanging his hat in Houston while he works for the Shell Chemical Co. He mentions that he ran into CHUCK IwMRD while strolling j^w n Bourbon Street during a recent visit lo New 
Weans. Good old Bourbon Street! TOM MAR­SHALL is doing graduate work at the University of California. Don mentions that at last report, BILL BECK was at Hondo Air Force Base in T«n:as. 
STEVE FREVOZNIK drops a line and mentions that lie and JOHN O'BRIEN have just completed their first year of medical scho«>l at the Univtrstiy of Pcnnsyh-ania. Also, FORST BROWN is in the same boat at llar\-ard. Forst passes to Stevo who passes to me the names of three men who have Wome engaged rccmtiv: CHET SCHULLER, 
IKRROLL DOWDEN, and DON GALUAGHER. DICK CVPKA 15 still with the Marines on Oki­nawa. BILL ROGERS ct>inpteted \\i>, first year of Med scliool at Temple. I might add here that anyone knowing the whereabouts of TOM ROGERS from Dexvht, S. Y., p]ea>e dr»p me a line and bring nie up to date. Better yet, why not write yourself, Tom? Mom is worried about you. 
While at the short;. I found a floating bottle with a note inside. Seems as though L/VRRY BREHL lias been drcippiiig thetn in llie ivake of the U.S.S, Macon {CA-I32), FPO, New York. N. Y., where JK sp'Uids most of bis time after having been drafted into the Naiy. Larr\* will have been married by the time this column goes into print to the fonner Miss Donithy Albcrter of Pittsburgh. Congratulations to you both. Larr\' sounds a sad note as he niftntions that his ship will leave for a five month cruise starting in September. He plans to return in January and he and his bride will make Boston iheir home before the, Na\->' sends him oat again. He requests that any grads having a line on some nice apartments in Boston, drop him a line so he can have an "overhead and four bulkheads" to call his own. He reports having seen ROD CYRIER and DON GELS at ^o t camp at Great Lakes. Word has it that Bon is ptaving for a Navy orchestra in Japan. FR.ANK FLORLVN and BOB MOORE are still attending Carnegie Tech in Pittsburgh, at last report. FR^\NK SCHILLO was drafted Into the Army last August. BOB MoVULIFFE writes from the far-flung wastes of Chicago where lie is sta­tioned with an anti-aircraft batter>*. Bob lias recently become engaged to Miss Orlean Bick of St. Louis. Congratulations. Bob. He reports having seen TOM KEWLEY and DAVE Mc-BRIDE while in training at Fort Bliss. Texas. GEORGE SUNKEL and PAT McNA.\L\R^\ are 
K
ill there m the ad\-ancvti part ol the prr>grani. DB WING, when last heard from, was stationed somewhere in the Boston area. PAUL NEWMAN was married reccnilv and be and his wife are out at Fort Ord, Calif. DICK HUGHES dabbles in Army finance in Indianapob's and BOB B.AUDEN­DISTREL is stationed somewlu-re in Japan. JOE FONTANA writes from Florida that his three months in Puerto Rico weren't quite the Iioliday that I claimed they were in my last column. Okay, JfK, so I was wrong. Now I'm batting only .999. Joe is Adj'utant of Marine Air Con­trol Squadron No. 8 in Miami. Joe mentions that RIIKE WARD, also an oflicer in tho Marines, was 
le proud fatlier of a baby daughter, Mar>' Jo, who arrived on Father's Day. JIM VACHRIS is in flight training at Tucson, Ariz., and he and his wife are looking for the stork again m Augiist-
MIKE ELLIS is presently stationed at Fort Leonard Wood in Missouri, Mike reports that h-? will be out of the Army next April. DAN HE/\LY was drafted into the Aniiy in January* and is now stationed at Fort Carson. Colorado. PAT HALEY is working for his M.S. at Florida State University. He expects to gel Iiis degree in August of tlijs tar. JOHN NICKNISH plans to graduate in March, 1957, with an M.S. from the South Dakota Scliool of Mines. A second baby girl, Anne Marie, was born on April 9, 1956. Congratulations, John. JOHN O'SULLIVAN is working toivarxJ an 
M.S. at Iowa State University and will return to Maska during June and July of this summer to [inish up his work on his thesis. BOB WHIPPO is ser\*ing in the Amiv, location unknown. TAY­LOR BENSON iias been named to head the ^VISN :^dio news department in Milwaukee, Wis. JACK STEPHENS is a member of the new course in Air Force pre-flight training at Lackland AFB. ROL­
GRAND R/VPIDS—Participating in the club's golf outing were, left to right: Dick McCor­niick, co-chaimian and golf champion; Coach John Jordan; Afost Rev. A. J. Babcock, Bishop 
of Grand Rapids; £d Kratise; 

AND H.ART recently sent a card from Alliens, Greece, while Wsiting during a cruise on the 
U.S.S. .Monrovia (APA-31) FPO, New York, N. Y. R.-\Y DOLiVN graduated recently from the Army Aviation School at Fort Rucker. Alabama. JOE B.\LOBECK is working for North American xXvia­tion in Downey, Calif. DICK HUETHER is now stationed in Korea with the Anny and he can be readied bv writing as follows: 2d Lt. Dick Huetlier. (M053440, Co. .M, 32 D Inf. Reg., APO 7, San Francisco. Calif. 
ROCCY TANNONE writes from the Na\y Sup­ply Corps Sch(H>l at .-Vth'^ns. Ga. that be is enjoying his stay in the sunny south. He mentions that JOHN D.\MM is there with him now and that ROY BELKNAP, GEORGE RIORDAN, DON FREUND, and BILL RICHARDSON left there a short time ago for their various duty station^. Roy Was sent to sea duty, Dim is doing audit work for the Nav\- in Chicago, Bill is touring the world aboard the U.S.S. Forrestal, and George was unfortunate enough to receive shore duty in Hawaii. What a deal! 1 know officers here at Olallie who have been trying to get the same deal for the last 15 years. It just goes to shovv you what influence we Ensigns liavt; these days. Rocc>' also reports that JIM EHRET graduated from OCS and is now at Pensacota for fh"ght training. BOB COPELi\ND writes that he is sta­tioned aboard the U.S.S. County (LST-1H8), FPO. San Francisco, Calif. He mentioned that he bad a visit with CHRIS FLYNN who is in yeoman school with the Navy in San Diego. Kansas has been fortunate enough to gain a candidate for thrir fa\'orite son nomination at the next election. It's none other than GEORGE KLUEGEL who is stationed at Fort Riley. George doesn't dispute my statement in the last column that he Is on foreign soil and wonders what could be more foreign than Kansxs, He reports having seen DON SHON'TS who is also at Riley and calls the tank corps his second love. CLE.M DEVINE is holding down a nice desk job with George and tlicy both manage to take a trip to the shore on weekends. SONNY COWLES and SID FERRIS were at Riley for a few months but have now departed for horizons unknown. JOHN SENNETT and TOM GALLxVGHER are \-acalioning with the Army in Germany. 
I was ver>' pleased and surprised to receive a letter from JOE O'DONNELL, C.S.C., who started with us as freshmen and left to enter the scminarv. Joe reports that NICK AYO, C.S.C., DAN BOL^VND, CS.C , HUGH SHINE, C.S.C., and he graduated in June and will be heading for theoIog>- in September. DAVE KIL­KE:\RY «-as at Old College during the past semester and will be entering the Holy Cross Novitiate at Jordan, Minnesota. JOHN DER­WEN*T was at Notre Dame this summer, studying pre-scminar>' Latin. He plans to enter the Noviti­ate. On a parting note. Joe mentions that CHUCK COLLINS and Miss Katliy Kiley are slated for the altar in the near future. If I don't write FR^\NK CUNNINGHx\M by the time tliat this 
 and club president Charles Duffy. 
column goes into print, at least he'll know that 
I received bis letter. Frank is still holding forth 
at tho Navy Exchange, U. S. Naval Station, 
Bayonne, N. J. and from bis letter I gather that 
things are running quite smoothly. If I know this 
E\cliangc business like I think I do, the day after 
he \vrolc the letter »:\'erything %vcnt wrong. Am 
I right, Frank? He included some tidbits in his 
letter that I'll pass along. WALT KAVANAUGH 
is no longer breaking hearts In Missouri but has 
been transferred to a base In Mississippi. BILL 
MULLER received his call from Uncle Sam and re­
ports to Fort Dlx in August. JACK HOBLITZEL 
is out of the xVrmy now after six montlis' active 
duty. He'll still be putting In many long years 
of active reserve duty. Those two weeks playing 
war every summer should be fun. Jack. 
STEVE REBOR.\, FRED WHITFJELD, PAUL 
-MUELLER, JACK FITZENZ, and JACK WIL­
HOIT all recently graduated from the Officers' Can­
didate School in Newport, R. I. Welcome aboard, 
men. Drop a line and say that sea duty's fine. 
^V'ALT CLEAIENS »»"riles that he ts working /or 
an M.fV. at Columbia University's Russian In­
stitute and living with a Russian family in New-
York. Good foreign relations start at home. 
JOHN iLVNIX sends a growl from the Great 
Nortfiwcst where ho is stationed at Afalnistrom 
Air Force Base in Great Falls, Montana. John 
says that be Is working as an intercept controller 
xvitli ^ n AC&W site. In his next letter I plan 
to have him tell me what type of a site an 
AC&W site is. Ifc mentions that BOB STUK.AS 
is with an anti-aircraft battery defending Chicago's 
shores. Give up. Bob, according to a friend of 
mine down Texas way, it's not worth saving. 
After this, I expect a letter from every '55 grad 
in the Windy City area. JOHN JAHOD.\ was 
seen down Florida way preparing to leave for 
Japan ^vith the Marines as a radar controller. 
JOHN MARSHCVL is back on the campus and is 
presently looking forward to his second year of 
law school. DICK RE.\MER writes that be has 
received an appointment to the medical school in 
Vienna, Austria, where he plans to spend the n-sxt 
five years working for his M.D. and Ph.D. in 
psycliiatry. He mentions having seen CHUCK 
POLLNOW at a baseball game last spring in 
Washington. Cluick is in the Na\y and is stationed 
at Bethesda. Md. ED TOO.MEY and KEVIN 
O'DONNELL will be returning for another year 
at Georgetown Medical School. EMMETT ROOT 
was last seen wearing a Wilkie button at the 
All-Star football game in Chicago. And all the 
time I thought be would "Go Pogo." Ahrsr not 
having any news of LEE CREiVN since graduation, 
I was quite pleased to receive a letter from biin 
the other day. Lee was inducted into the Army 
last September and Is now in Los Angles awaiting 
further orders. Congratulations and best wishes 
are In order to both Lee and Miss Mary Camblin • 
as they have been engaged since last February. 
He says that they plan to be married at Notre 
Dame next spring. MIKE FOX was stationed at 
Fort Holabird in Baltimore but Is now in Germany. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 2956 61 
SOUTHERN COOK COUNTY—The club held a scholarship benefit dance at the counfrj­club in Chicago Heights. Left to right: Ben Daniiani, arrangements chairman; Bill Martin, vice-president; Bob CaffarclH, general chairman; Eddy Ho^vard; Tom O'Grady, ticket chair­man; and John Zarantt^ president A check for $370 was given to Notre Dame for the scholarship fund. 
BOB KUNZE just finished his hasic training at Fort DL\-, Lcc would like mc to pass on his new home address and says that any and all mail will be answered promptly. Creditors please disregard. TIic address is 5757 X. Clifford Ave., Chicago 30, 111. 
I received a birth announcement from FRfVNK M.AIER and his wife Ginny whicli I think demands quotation verbatim. It read as follows: **A new destroyer is in our home port. Was launched on August lOlIi, 3:20 p.m. Will be cliristencd Micliacl Joseph. Gross tonnage 8 lbs. 8 oz. Main arma­ment, a pair of seven incli lungs. Shipyard, U. S, Nav-aJ Hospital^ Coronado, Calif. New Command­ing Officers, Frank and Ginny Maier." Con­gratulations from all slups and stations! FRED DXVNNER sends a bit ot good news as he an­nounces that he married the former Miss Mar\* Anne Boriowski on July 14Ui in Brookl>'n. Fred is still with ilic Sperry G>Toscope Company and he and his wife are making their home on Long Island. He reports that TO M LOOMIS is with the Air Force in Texas and DON LUEC^E is aboard slilp in the Cuba area. 
JOHN H.ARTIGx\N dropped a line and reported tliat all goes well at Northwestern Law Scliool. John returns for another year in the fall along with ED SCOBY, BOB GOSDICK, and TOM CAREY. ^Vorking in a faw office during the summer doesn't seem to have interfered with John's night life as he rcporu that things in Cliicago are tlie same as we all left them in *55. He also reports that DON ROBINSON lias moved back into the Chicago arra and will return to Columbia Law Sdiool in the fall. From the land of tlie sky-blue tumblewet^ comes a dispatcli from RON REN E who is stationed with the Army at Fort Hood, Texas. Ron works in the Methtni Improvement Office and at present has his hands full since everything needs improving. Stick with it, Ron! Tlie news to follow is from his letter. JACK PINTER is stationed aboard the U.S.S. Cayuga County on the West Coast. BILL KREP5 was married recently but none of tlic details are known. MART^* CULHANE married the former Miss Mar>' Pat Curran in May and is in flight training at San Angclo. Texas. Ron ran into HOWIE Hf\RT and JOHN AQUILL.\ who have both finished basic training with tlic Army and Iiavc moved on to other stations. TOM BRxVND is in the Pacific on a carrier but no further details arc known. Ron requests information on his old roommate, PAUL MARBACH. How about it Paul? I received a ver>* interesting note from DICK CLAMENS who is working for tlie Creole Petro­leum Corp. in Caracas, Venezuela- Dick is engaged and plans to be married in December. He extends 
62 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Nov.-Dec.j 1956 
an imitation to his classmates and mentions that he is "sicmprc a su ordcn!" Wiat? JIM GOIOl-LEY and his wife Nancy have just been blessed with an 8 lb. 10 oz. baby girl, Eileen Allison. Congratulations to both of them. Also in the baby department, GUY PIERCE and Ids wife, Pat, are now the proud parents of a 6 lb. 7 oz. baby girl, Joan Marie. Congratulations to you both and I'll be looking for a cigar in tlie mail. PAUL FITZGERALD reccli-ird a masters dcgrct in business administration at Har\'ard commencement exercises held in June. JACK SMITH has com­pleted his primar>' flight training at Spencc Air Force Base in Georgia and has moved on to ad­vanced training at GoodfcIIot** Air Force Base, San Angelo, Texas. JOHN KENNEDY received his master of science degree at the California Institute of Teclmolog\-. As I draw toward the end of this column, I would like to mention that no word iias readied me from JACK SORANNO 
who is vacationing with tlic Na\'y on Guam. Com^f 
on. Chunk, let's hear about it. -*JF* 
KENNETH E. HALL, fonnerly of Dur^tc, CaliL, j has Joined the trust dcpt. of tlic American Trust ; Co., in South Bend. He and his family will reside ­at 934 South Bend Ave., South Bend, Ind. 

I guess that docs it for this time. I must admit that you all kept mc pretty busy trying to transcribe all of llie news that I received. Keep it up! Tliat's the way I like it. If any of you would like to have ttie addresses of some of the men mentioned in the column, drop me a postcard and I'll he happy to send them to you if I have them. I>^ j like -to include all of them in the write-up biiV^ ­it would look like I were pla>-ing the numbers racket. I leave witli one thought, *'Hc who slings mud at his fellow man is only losing ground.*' ' 
1956 ^'""^ ^' ^'" 

No. 2 Droniara Road Laduc 24, Missouri "Far came upon me, and trembling . . . the hair of my flesh stood up." (O.T* Job, iv, ^^t^ 15). Date: September 30th. Time: 11:00 p.i! ^ Problem: Printer*s dealinc October 1st. Haxing majored (and I am not alone) in procrastination, I find tlie resulting situation somewhat tense. Shall I press titc panic button and leap, or, shall I hastily tr>' -to infonn you briefly of hoiv wc, the "promising >-oung graduates of '5S," have spent our summer. Decision readied. Write! Industrious JACK GUEGUEN worked in tlie public information office of the U. S. Army Engi­neers' Corps in Kansas City. He wrote publicity pamphlets for some big dams the Engineers are building in Missouri and Kansas—^just like IM* learned to do in ED FISCHER's journalism clai»=" Now Jack is back on "'the campus" as a research assistant in the Sonet Studies Program of the Department of Political Science. Quite a few times JOHN MJVSSMAN has been \ seen at bid openings for channel improvement ! \vork on the Missouri River. It looks like John's I getting a good start in the construction business. • Guess you already know BILL BxMLEY and '< JOHN KENNEDY returned to Law ScIiool with ; Ca\'anaugh Scltolarships. JOHN BOYLE got a job in the Dcpt. of Defense in Washington. Sup­posed to have reported in July. DICK RUP^ , BILL BELLIS, and some of the other Engli.^ majors were intending to do grad work at Catholic i 
U. in Washington this fall. JERRY PORTING ; is planning to attend ^led Scliool at the Uni-1 vcrsity of Micliigan, and at lost count, TOM « KENNEL hoped to take a chemical engineering 1 post at a company in West Virginia. 
By now I suppose DON SNIEGOWSKI lias packed Iiis bags and taken off for England. He I will continue his studies at Oxford as a Rhodes | Sdiolar. TOM WEST and LEONARD HIER^VTH j arc working with Hamilton Standard, a Division t of United Aircraft Corp., at Windsor Locks, Conn. | JIM BREHL entered the University of ^licliigrj^ 
NE^V JERSEY—Greg- Rice (second irom Jcft), former Irish track star and currently prcsi-| dent of the Notre Dame National Monogram Club, was guest speaker at the alumni club^s| Freshmen Welcome party. Others include (from left): John F. Kelly, sccretarj*; James Han-| nan^ new student; and Angelo Bertelli, former AII-American quarterback at Notre DameJ; 
^Lau' School in September. Tliis past summer he ^^rke d with General Electric at its Louis\'itlc plant. 
A trio of N.D. graduates, STEVE JURM/\N, JOE KUR2EJA, and JOHN McINTIRE, have taken jobs with Esso Research & Engineering Co. in Linden, New Jersey. 
Jumping from the East coast to the West, GEORGE KREMBS has enrolled at Stanford. If all goes right (only equipped with a magna cum) he hopes to get an M.S.E.E. by June! Tliis past summer George worked fur Sylvania Eh-ctronic 
€
[:fensc Lab on countenncasurc problems against tided missiles. (Note from the author: Actually I iroutd explain this more fully for >'ou all, but for security reasons I am obliged to restrain myself.) 
Also on the West coast IRNEE D'HAENENS has accepted a position with the Hughes Research Lab, CuU'er City, California. He's going to the U. of Southern Cat. this fall where he will study for his masters degree in ph>'sics on a fcllou'shtp spon­sored by tlie Hughes Laborator>-. 
Saw a clipping from the Xew York Times that ^•titcd "JOSEPH L. VIANI, a recently graduated ^•Pnior at the University of Notre Dame, has been 
awarded a certificate- of merit by Brand Names Foundation for the most outstanding paper sub­mitted by Indiana college students in the National Brand Retailing Essay Contest sponsored by the foundation. Viani's paper was on 'The Infhience of Manufacturers' Brands on Better Retailing'.'' Our Congrats to you, Joe. 
JOHN PHEUVN, S.J., who was with our class two years, finished his novitiate and took his first vows as a Jesuit Aug. 15 at St. Stanislaus Semi­nary, Florissant, Mo. John had a risit from DAN 
£J^EVINE» now a Na\-y ensign, who was in St. 
^Xouis last July. I'm sure • they relived some of those unforgettable freshmen da>-s in Farley. At any rate, DAVE MAX, studying al St. Mary's Seniinar>* (9745 Memorial Drive, Houston 24, Tex.) 
L for the Diocese of Wichita, Kansas, informs me that 
I the *'ncu* way of life is somewhat different than 
I Alumni Hall days." 
On hand for CAS TAYLOR's wedding to PoIIy Young in Cumberland, Maryland, June 16th were ED VIZ.\RD, BART HENSLER, BILL IL\R­RINGTON, DAVE M.\X, and ED SEX^VUER. Ed began his army hitch July 9th at Ft. Benning, 
fffieorgia. 
While we're on the subject of weddings—seems there are quite a few leaving our bachelor ranks. LLOYD AUfiREY, for one, has set his date for October 6th. Meanwhili; he is in ihe sales training program of General /\merican Life Insurance Co., St. Louis, BOB GUTHRIE has also chosen the same Saturday for his marriage to Monica Snyder, and DAN QUIGLEY is following suit a month later—Nov. 3. Our best Irishes to you all, men. 
I've Iieard via the grape vine LEO LINBECK is going to Texas University Law School. 
Several of the troops have decided to quench weir thirst for knowledge w*ith more school. BOB ^OWD is at the University of Maryland Scliool 
of Law. Also, on the other side of the ledger, he's engaged to Norma Scliafer from Scllersburg, Indiana. Tlie exact date of the wedding is not in the oiling as of yet. 
From the Midwest Research Institute in Kansas City wc hear D.\VE SCHWEIGER has joined the staff of the Chemical Engineering Division. 
JOHN HOBBS has been assigned to the Chicago 

QM Purchasing Center as Deputy Finance and ^Accounting Officer. Also under Uncle Sam's wing ^^DO N BRENNAN received a commission in the 
/\ir Force and begins pilot training in the fall. JOHN DROEGE started the same last June. JOHN O'ROURKE began his tour of duty in July at Guam with the Petroleum Procurement Branch, and BOB HURD, commissioned in the Aniiy at graduation, enterea the Intelligence Br^mclt of Engineering. 
JIM MIL.\S, wc hear, lias tnidgod on to the Illinois Institute of Technology with Iiigh hopes of receiving a Civil Engineering degree in June, 
^^8 . A National Science Foundation Grant was 
^vartled to GORDOS BENNET in o«l-r for him to continue his studies at Penn State College. He plans on stud>*ing for a ^LS. in Geophysics. 
Read a news release from Monsanto Chemical Company saying GERRY SPAETH joined the sales department in June. 
DICK. CL^VRK is now the proud owner of a shiny new medal—the Dockweiler medal, awarded to him for writing the best thesis on philosophy. He teas also given a scliolarship in tlic haw School and returned to the University this fall to pursue his studies. 
at NOTRE DAME the Holy Cross Fathers pubiuh THE CATHOLIC BOY 
y^ Q pages chock-full of 
rO SPORTS, ADVENTURE, COMICS, STORIES, HOBBIES and CATHOLIC INSPIRATION 
Only S3.00 a year 
Published monthly except during July and August 
IDEAL GIFT TO BOVS (10 to 16) for Christmas, Birthdays, Confirmation, Graduation 

the B§§J all-around magazine any boy could want 
FILL OUT THIS HANDV COUPON AND MAIL TODAY 
THE CATHOLIC BOY Notre Dame, Indiana rhrec or more (
• 1 year —§3.00 
• 2 years— 5.00 I'vr. subscriptions { 52 JO eadi 
Please send the Catholic Boy D 3 years— 7.00 
To: 
Name 
Street and Number 
' _ __ _ _ 
D Send Gift Card to read from 
1 
Your Name 
Your Address 

Received postcards regularly from BOB WELSH as he hopskotched across the Continent this sum­mer. In conclusion he ad\'ise(I me to *'sell hi-fi, car, clothes, and tour Europe.' 
JERRY L/\PEYRE called me while passing throu};h St. Louis en route to the University of ^Wssonru He has a leacliing felJowsIiip in physics and intends to get his ductorato there. Good luck, Jerr>-. 
GEORGE GinSOX, my Dillon and Alumni Hall roommale, has accepted a job with Procter and Gamble and is here in St. Louis for a six month training program. Januar>- 1st Gibby departs for Newport, Rhode Island and the Nax-al Ofliccr^s Candidate School. 
September 18th the author saw four suspicious looking characters with small black bags as they crossed the St. Lo:iis Unix'crsity campus (downtown St. Louis i.e.). These lads entered the Medical ScIiooI and have not been stren since. Formerly the four sssxc BOB GULDE, JOHN CYWINSKI, i\NDY McROBERTS, and VINCE EILERS. Now they arc "nied students." The EWALD TWINS, 
Zone State 

Rog and Rich, arc abo here as medical and dental 
students respectively. ., 
GENE BRENNAN was another \Tsitor to St. Louis this summer. He came down with his par­ents to sec his younger brother who is in the Christian Brothers Novitiate in Eureka, Mo. 
i\s tor myself—AL VITT—frankly, I'm still ccle­
. brating the fact I finally graduated in '56! After three weeks of Med School, am completely dis­interested in work—both manual and mental—but vrry mucli interested in each of you. So please drop mc a letter, note, card—anything! Just let me know hou* you are, what >"ou*rc doing. I'd really like to hear from you! 
EDWARD J. MENARD, who received a law degree this year from Notre Dame, has been se­lected for the Attorney General's 1956 Recrufl­nicnt Program for honor law graduates. He \%"as one of approximately 50 students chosen from a firld of 330 qualified applicants representing 80 different law schools throughout the country. Ed will be stationed with the U. S. Department of • Justice Onice in Washington, D. C. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.~Dec,y 1956 63 
Oilfice. 0/ Ute. PneUdent 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Midland, Texas FELLO W ALUM^fI: October 28, 1956 
Noti-e Dame has long been criticized as a football "mill" where the chief qualifications of a number of our students were i-umored to be big wTists, thick legs and no necks. This has been the misguided conclusion reached by a gi-eat number of the prejudiced uninformed. 
The recent articles that appeai-ed in SpoHs lUiistrated summaiizing a survey made of all monogi-am men should do much to disprove this attitude among our detractors. It might even be quite a surprise to a lot of you alumni. Of particular interest was the fact that Sports Illustrated, not satisfied with the material assembled by your school, went further and sought out a great number of ex-football players who had not answered the original questionnaires and made a di­rect comparison with alumni of several other universities. It is with pride that we note how favor­ably our monogi-am men compared. 
The hullabaloo regai'ding scholai-ships is only the re-kindling of an old fire. Unfortunately, this well recognized practice has its abusers which only cause alai-mists to raise the hue and cry against the entire game. Certainly we give scholai-ships. We have never resorted to "bonus" in­ducements and never will. Notre Dame needs the best to compete with the best and our competi­tive urge would be dead if we didn't stiive to win every time — but not at any cost. 
The Noti-e Dame administration believes in and seeks to maintain a healthy, balanced ath­letic progi-am and tliereby, as Father Hesburgh says, produce morally responsible human beings and useful citizens. 
Sincei-ely, 
JOSEPH I. O'NEILL^ JR. President 
(Ed. Note: Joe O'Neill's comments are forceful and stimulating. He wi-ites with 'authority,' having been an outstanding left end on Fighting Irish gi-id teams in the mid-'30's. Joe's perform­ance in the line and his ability as a punter eai-ned him recognition from the Official All-America Board of Football.—J.C.) 
64 Notre Dame Alumnus, Nov.-Dec, 1956 PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 




