The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
NOTRE DAME 
Denouemenl; 
1 would not be making an earth-shattering disclosure were I to state that this 
has been an emotional, tragic, yet somehow stimulating spring on the college 
campuses of the land. The disclosure might be that Notre Dame is not—nor 
has it ever been—totally immune to the ideas, philosophies and causes that 
have motivated America's young people to rise up and voice their collective 
disenchantment with many aspects of their world. 
This place is a special place for many reasons but it is not an ivory tower where people come to escape from contemporary life and its attendant problems. Rather, it is a place where people come to confront life and all its challenges—to explore, to discover, to experiment, to discuss, to analyze, to reason, to act, to EDUCATE themselves. Thus, simply by virtue of the fact that Notre Dame is a university, it cannot be a calm, untroubled preserve for young people. We had some interesting moments on campus during recent weeks and beginning on page 1 Dick Conklin endeavors to tell about them. 
In this issue we have repeated the senior class profile which we initiated last year because we feel it extremely important that the people out there know the people here and how they tick. After extensive research we selected some interesting individuals from the Class of 1970. They are not intended to be ideals or model students representing one viewpoint or another. They are simply individuals. 
Since this is the last magazine of the academic year at the University, we have touched on many items and occurrences. From graduation 1970-style to ND's first lady law graduate. From Allard Lowenstein's visit to Father Ted's prestigious AAUP award. From Dr. Bill Scott's appointment as director of the Black Studies Program to the Summer Sports Camp. It's all here so get started. 
This is my final issue of the ALUMNUS and there is much I could and probably should say to many people. I will spare you that and simply say that the last two years have been extremely enriching to me personally. Thank you for making them so. And a special thanks to John, Meg, Sandy, Bill, Mac, John, Ed, Gene, George, Wayne and everyone else for putting up with me. 
Welcome Timothy Hughes! 
Tom Sullivan Managing Editor 
IN THIS ISSUE 

Uaivcnity  .p.  1  Gndut e  Schoob  ...#. 32  
Class News  p. 12  Odb News  ...#. 34  
O B Record .....  ...._..  .p. 39  Fcatare  ..'^ 4t  
Abmui  A A ...  p. 48  

James O. Coooer 'SS 
EzmrmB Saouncv .. 
ALoma AsaocuTioM 
Tarn SoUivu 16 
IfuiMiMo Emo i Ueg Via Der Gtacht '69 
AssisnaiT JEsnoi Jolm McOEnnott '70 
Bat Ulthcn .'71 ;
EsmauL Asnsiiun!! ' 
1(. Brace Hubii'49 CHIEV nfoiasaATHni 
ALUMM ASSOCIATION (WflCEIS Leonid H. Skoghad'38 
Hommtax tkMMamm 
Donald F. O'Brien ' « 
RosnaiT Walter M. Lai«fonl'3U 
- VlCZ*nSSIBBllT 
W. Jeniae Kane '38 
ViCE-nasnmT Ffands J. Waion'28 
VicE-IusamT James D. Cooacy'59 
EsicinivE StamtnK Uicbael E. Jocdan '68 AsSISTAIfT SiCUTAny 
DHECIOBS TO 1971 
W. Jerome Kane '38 (CLUI Acnvmiis) P.O. B«K 3707, Seattle. Waih. 96124 

Walter M. Lanfoid '30 (Cuss Acnvnus) 1315 Obego^ , South Bend, Ind. 46617 Donald F. O'Brien '42 (EzzcunvE AND NoMiHATioKs) 1113 Rockr River Rd., Houston. Tex. 77027 . Leonaid H. Slwighind '38 (SEMATE Acnvtnzs) 426 Dover Ave., LaGraage F^ik, III. 60525 ' Fnuds J. Wibon '28 (Puiuc RELATIONS 
- AMO DnixuiniEMT) 61(6 Howe St., Fitts­buigli. Fk. 15206 

MBEcnMS TO un 

'. Robert A. EAins '37 (fuicEmaiT, ADMIS­aiOMs) P.O. Box 546, BuM. Idaho 83316 ; John T. Masiaan '52 (FACin.Tr REunoNs) 
3917 Braadwar, Kansas Qtr. Mo. 64111 Frank L. . McGinn '52 (AcAmnc Anton. . RELIOION ft CmzEHSHir) 900 BI4(., 
> Fbaipaao Bcadi, Fla. 33062 
•tUitat t. McGoldrick '56 (CONTINUINU 
' EsDcioioH, SruoEirr ArrAns) 15 Dniiy Lane, West Haitfoid. Conn. 06117 
Leoaid H. TOK '37 (ATHUIIC) 64 W. 4lh / St., Bridgeport. Ri. 1940S 
; IMKECICMB TO 1973 Da^el D. Caoale '42, 1325 Commeree Tide 
; Bldg., MnpUs. Tenn. 38103 Dr. Join C. I.m«ren '38, 4180 Chestnut , Ave., Long Beach, Calif. 90807 James CHadkritt '35, 43 Hanqahire Rd., Gicat Ned . N.Y. 11023 JoMiih T. O'Nan '53, 60 W. 4th St., St. FknI. Mian. 55102 John K. FkadU '49. 17549 Kiikshiie. Bir­' ' Mick. 48009 1970 Note Dame ALDMHCS. Univenitr of 
Notre !>••<, al lUils reserved. Reprnhic­
liaa ,ia whole or m part without mitten 

psimiaioa is pnAibited. The Notre; Dame ALmoraa is puHiilifd 
•oatfcir, eaoept'Jaaaair, March. May. 
AagaM aad Novcsaoer, by the Univefsitr of 
Nbtic llliaiL. 5ini l r lias postage paid at 
Note Daw. bd. 4C59C. ^ ^ 

VIVMVERSITY 
• '•mm 
It was a time of concern, action, contemplation and discussion on the ND campus. 


Seven days in May 
sity, strongly condemned the war ("It has divided our nation . . . drained our young life in death and mutilation .. . wasted resources desperately needed") but cautioned students against violence ("the worst possible reaction") and striking classes ("education and growth in competence are what the world needs most"). In a six-point declaration at the end, he called for "withdrawal of our military forces at the earliest moment" and stressed the need to work for "renewing the quality of American life." Within two weeks, more than 23,000 persons—from full professors to housewives in South Bend—^were to sign that declaration. 
Despite his plea, ND's Student Government, joining thousands of colleges and university students recoiling from the double shock of Cambodia and Kent State, supported a strike, and Tuesday morning found strike posters slapp^ on buildings and bulletin boards. Striking students passed out handbills at entrances to University buildings, but there were no disruptions and no attempt to coerce students who were attending class. Estimates varied from an He was an alumni senator from the 
West Coast and the cabdriver who 
nodded knowingly at the destination 
"Center for Continuing Education" 
was an ND law student. 
"You're going to be surprised," he told his fare, who was heading toward a three-day Alumni Board-Alumni Senate meeting on campus. He was right—and wrong. Most of the 100 alumni who happened to converge on the campus during the "Seven Days in May" which followed the American intervention in Cambodia were "surprised" all right, but not in the negative way presumed by the cab­driver. 
The events of May 4 through the 11 were in marked contrast to the tense situation which surrounded the annual spring meeting of the Board of Trustees held on campus the previous weekend. Meetings between student leaders and members of the trustees prior to the formal board sessions on Friday, May 1, failed to deter a small group—numbering perhaps 50 ND­SMC students and some nonstudents —from attempting to disrupt the meeting in the Center for Continuing Education. 
The protest at the trustees' meeting was small compared to the several hundred students involved in winding up a peaceful festival-teach-in devoted to analyzing the educational reforms advocated by Notre Dame Prof. Willis Nutting in his book. The Free City. Rock music blared from amplifiers on the main quad Friday, May I, but talk was shifting from ND to Cambodia in the aftermath of President Nixon's announcement about the use of American troops to sweep Vietcong sanctuaries in that country. 
Monday, in response to a rally csdl issued by various student organiza­tions, an estimated 2,000 students gathered at 1 p.m. in the warm sun of the main quad. Fr. Hesburgh, reached late Sunday night by rally organizers with an offer of speaking time, opened the program. 
With the whispered first reports of the Kent State deaths moving swiftly through the crowd, Fr. Hesburgh read a handwritten statement he had drafted in the early morning hours. While acknowledging the President's sincerity and courage, the ND pres­ident, emphasizing that he was speaking for himself not the Univer­
absenteeism of 50 per cent or more in 
Alts and Letters to a low of 20 per 
cent in Business Administration. 

Meeting Monday night, the tripartite 
Student Life Council recommended to 
University ofiScials that classes be 
suspended Wednesday and that this 
day and Thursday (Ascension 

Thursday) be devoted to campus-wide 
discussions of the war and related 
moral and social issues. The 
University endorsed the plan. 
About 3,000 students jammed the 

old Fieldhouse Tuesday night to hear 
Senior Fellow Allard K. Lowenstein, 
a congressman from New York State, 
criticize the war as unconstitutional 
and urge students "to take the facts 
to the people" instead of resorting 
to violence. 

The ND faculty, meeting the next afternoon in a special session, debated the propriety of taking a position as a group on the war and then voted 211-134 to endorse Father Hesburgh's declaration. (There was no abridgement of academic beedom. Those who thought otherwise con­tinued to do so. A group of students opposing Wednesday's suspension of classes circulated a petition, and 22 faculty members signed a statement supporting Nixon's Cambodian action.) 
As the Alumni Board and Senate members were drifting on campus in midweek, the scene was a strange one indeed. T-shirts silk-screened (at 75 cents) with a green clenched fist and "Strike Irish" dotted the campus, sometimes appearing on earnest strikers moving in and out of "Strike Central" in LaFortune and sometimes on Frisbee players behind Morrissey; anyone with access to a mimeograph machine could duplicate his message to the campus, and too many did; lists of faculty members willing to partici-
An unidentified woman perches on a Center for Continuing Education auditorium table while making a point about Women's Liberation to Notre Dame Trustees Thomas Carney, left, and Bayard Rustin. Carney and Rustin met with demonstrators during the 
spring meeting of the Board of Trustees on campus May I and heard a mixture of complaints, ranging from charges of inadequate mirwrity scholarship funds to "sexism" at Notre Dame. 
A rallying cry for some. 

pate in the "communiversity" teach-in hung in the halls, and circles of quiet discussion sprouted on lawns in the day and moved into hall parlors at night; tra£Bc at the circle revealed returning tans, some illicitly gained at the dunes but others eanied honestly while canvassing the local area door-to^oor for signatures in support of Fr. Hesbur^'s declaration. Some halls began fasting for peace, and others joined a boycott of luxury youth-market items designed to provide an economic lever for peace. "Communiversity" discussion sched­ules appeared daily in both the strike paper and the South Bend Tribune. 
Wednesday afternoon the Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C., assoc. prof, of philosophy, preached at a concele­brated Mass in the main quad. He commended the commitment of stu­dents willing to take the "long journey" toward change instead of a self-indulgent "trip." Following the Mass, a long line of student marchers, estimated at around 5,000, wound through the campus and past the Administration Building to begin a mile-and-a-half trek to a rally at Howard Park in South Bend. It was the largest demonstration in campus memory and gave the lie to claims that the majority of students had "bugged out" for a Wednesday-Thursday vacation. 
The Alumni Board and Senate altered their planned agendas to allow for the maximum interaction with students. Some of it took place at formal meetings where student strikers argued their position and sought sympathy for Father Hesbur^'s declaration, but much more of it took place in the halls and dining rooms where alumni senators slept, ate, and talked and talked and talked. The Alumni Senate did not formally endoiae Father Hesburgh's declaration, but it did pass a resolution com­mending the President, the faculty and the student body for their "ctMistructive implementation of a deep moral concern." Observer publisher Guy DeSapio received a standing ovation fam alumni senators after a luncheon address in which be challenged them to bridge the generation gap with a commitment to spiritual and human values. 
Perhaps the most impressive event of the "Seven Days in May" was the community liturgy Ascension Thursday in Sacred Heart Church. Father Hesburgh was the principal celebrant of the Mass, which drew 
g)^ 
A temporary substitute. 
every element of the campus into a packed church and illustrated the continuing power and value a shared symbolism holds for a community. 
(Father Hesburgh was later to comment that he saw "more praying in those two days on campus than I had seen all year long.") Students, faculty members, administrators, secretaries, clerks, alumni and a few people from town heard Father Hesbur^ eulogize the slain students at Kent State and plead for a society in which "ballots replaced bullets" for American youth. 
Classes resumed Friday, and while attendance was up it was still below normal. That evening a mass meeting 

of some 3,000 students—with 
assorted Alumni Board members and 
Senators as observers—^took place in 
Stepan Center. 
Students backed a proposal which recognized the necessity of keeping the University open but asked for some sort of arrangement whereby conscientious students involved in peace activities could continue their commitment without academic penalty. 
Over the weekend, community-centered activities were intensified as pairs of students fanned out over the South Bend-Mishawaka area collecting signatures (and facing refusals) at shopping centers, churches, and downtown comers. 
Monday, May 11, one week after the strike rally, ten students appeared before a special meeting of the Academic Council and presented their proposal. In executive session, Fr. Hesburgh said he thought American higher education had reached a watershed. He warned that it was necessary to avoid two extremes—a "business as usual" approach which brushed off legitimate student concerns and the opposite attitude which shirked educational responsi­bility by simply shutting down the University. The Academic Council passed an amended resolution which provided the individual professor with four new grading options which he could apply—at his discretion—^to students engaged in outside activities. After some initial confusion, the new options, according to a Registrar's Office estimate, were applied to between five and 10 per cent of campus classes. 
Notre Dame had come through the "Seven Days in May" without violence or property damage, without police and national guardsmen, without bitterness and confrontation— a tribute to serious student leadership, maximum faculty cooperation and administrative flexibility. "I think we've rounded a comer and seen the unifying ND spirit come to the fore in a wholly new form," commented a campus psychologist. 
As for the students, their reaction was contained in a mimeographed note handed guests as they entered the annual President's Dinner, held two days after the Academic Council action. It said: "Dear Faculty, We would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your support and encouragement during the past week of national crisis. Your time and guidance have meant a great deal. Sincerely, Some of Your Students." 
(•"If' OOndOCt i l i..tMmimmj iM wwm > 
KfliMrt K^ OonltHh 
\ the Catania an K 19' 
! a aeflMctaoe opctafoM w.i(( WDik. It jacJeuaffttii WHiA mainlaiiiBd i 
1 v^?-^

i ideal of die 
Jan Munro '57, UttVUam, kim'->M- vW:f*V*>*^V^- s-'^,^'"T,jf|^ 
"ItapouldbaddBcultlp  "  "  ^  "  
. diya lniii(«idi HiBliiri  
the ooOege imj»«r,-<ii>  
, dedicatioa to the tn  
^tbaa.  SoowoCthe  
atndenla to baU a •  
r vJewpoiolB. I finmribift MHir  
>^ and to doeuH Aeai  fi^  fi^l  
aduk cmv a widi whan I  
Inpicned with tfaev  
and noo-itrifceni to a  
they fidt was riibt aaftJHl  
fio^,  and oeminhr apt tt  
toWUu  toe VnlOl^MBHff*  
Bin Woodwani 54. Gma  M^^^^^^^^^^^p^^Kk  

"1 have come to iltm-MmMli^tli^tBfTm'MWmta of DMMt oi the boya dbimtiliMl 

moie practical MJuao^^^HritMmmttmmimMwmtJim ^M4 
whom I had the '"'" young coUefe of knowledie at IHI catch up in knowiedP'^ „^ . at the tame rate aain die,dqn^, diat the student* irf todqF iM! ^ „ able to apply rt n. a pndiol>^_^^;^^^^^^^^ ^-^ ^^, 
"In the convaiative qwt ( 
llWRSfei 

some thougfals OQ tlM baal meeting. Hie e]9etieaoe ji faculty, students and other "now' geoeiatioB by i«e; jriarHFlii^ 
•®®'9=«g#f«s 
adced qoeitian -what giiiii Ihiarfiji,, ^___^„,,^^ believenuSnstandatlM*m,i^«^^p.1^ ,,—^-^^. depth of conviction was ij f niiiijWSj: V^^^^"^ -' ^fc%^ 

J. Patrick Doofey -64, TolaiiiOtt^^^^^^^^ifc^ j^l ^ ^-•^''tiM 
.,... n I" ' "-'• '' f " 




1600 join the club 
The ranks of the ND Alumni Association were swelled by more than 1,600 at the University's 125th commencement exercises held Sunday, June 7 in the Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. 
For the eighteenth year in succes­sion Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC presided, awarding some 1,298 bachelor's degrees, 162 master's degrees, 74 doctoral degrees, 79 law degrees, and ten honorary degrees. 
Dr. James E. Allen, Jr., U.S. Commissioner of Education, was the commencement speaker. Earlier in the day Archbishop Denis E. Hurley OMI of Durban, South Africa delivered the baccalaureate sermon at a morning mass celebrated by John Cardinal Willebrands, head of the Vatican Secretariat for Christian Unity. For the first time, commence­ment ceremonies included a student speaker. Senior Class President John 
F. Crawford. 
More than 11,000 people heard Commissioner Allen assert that "the emerging willingness of youth to direct its activities within the political system is the real hope of succeeding in the effort to preserve and extend democracy while simultaneously moving toward fundamental social change." He pointed out that youth has succeeded in gaining the attention of a society that has been dangerously complacent and slow to move. "With the attention gained, I hope young people will continue to be goads to our national conscience and that their crusading spirit will not diminish but rather grow into a renewal of our society through the political process of our democracy." 
Crawford's speech broke a 125­year-old tradition at ND. The Munster, Ind. senior told the assembly that the graduate can no longer call for destruction because "we are the system." He said that college students today hear "voices from the dead. From a hotel room in Memphis, Tenn., they are saying, 'I have a dream that some day all my little children will be free. I have a dream my friends.' From a kitchen corridor in Los Angeles they say 'Some people look at things as they are and ask why. I dream of things as they never were and ask, why not?' 

From a Dallas street between a Book Depository and a grassy knoll, they say, 'Ask not what your country can do for you, but rather, ask what you can do for your country.' From a grave in Arlington Cemetaiy they say, 'I was only 21 when I died in a war that I didn't know anything about. I still don't know why I died there. If you do please tell me.'" 
Honorary doctorates were awarded to: Dr. John Bardeen, Nobel Prize winning physicist at Illinois U.; Jerome J. Crowley, president of the O'Brien Corp. of South Bend; Dr. John M. Franklin of the History Department at Chicago U.; Dr. John 
A. Hannah, head of the U.S. Agency for International Development and past president of Michigan State U.; Roger P. Peters, professor emeritus of law at ND; Joseph C. Wilson, chair­man of the board of Xerox Corp.; Dr. Robert R. Wilson, director of the National Accelerator Laboratory; and Allen, Hurley and Willebrands. 
Dr. James Allen addresses the class of 1970. 
COLUMN 
Weak on politics 
Special by Jack Colwell, South Bend Tribune Reprinted with permission. 
Those ND and St. Mary's students don't know a thing about politics. First of 
all, they went to a political speech at Stepan Center the other night—and 
showed up sober. 
The affair was so poorly organized that they forgot to put up the traditional 
bar at the back of the hall. How can you have a political rally without booze, 
especially if those attending are going to toss aside all Indiana political 
tradition and show up stone, cold sober? 
Then those silly students proved how naive they are by actually listening to the speech. As anybody who knows anything about politics would tell those kids, you don't ever listen to what the speaker says. You decide beforehand whether you are for or against him on the basis of such solid factors as religion, ethnic background, race and whether he is with the faction of the party which gets your uncle a job on the highway department. Then, if you decide you're for the speaker, there's no sense wasting time listening to what he says. You can chat about something else while he's speaking. If you decide you're against him, why bother going at all? 
Some of the students were even signing cards to volunteer for campaign work. And—^get this—they forgot before signing to get any promise of a patronage job. Aren't the universities teaching anything these days? Why those kids didn't even act like students are supposed to. Father Hesburgh, their university president, stood up to introduce the speaker (Indiana Senator Vance Hartke) and the students gave Father Hesburgh what can only be described as a standing ovation. Ridiculous conduct. Everybody knows students are supposed to hate their college president, shout insults at him, take over his office and demand that he resign. 
Oh, there were some ND students with long hair and (horrors) beards, showing conclusively that they are subversive, and a lot of the St. Mary's students were wearing mini-skirts or even (gulp) shorts, an obvious indication of having abandoned all moral standards. But they didn't shout obscenities or storm out after the speech to bum the campus. 
Of course, part of the trouble lies with Father Hesburgh, who has declined to call for troops to force all the students back to class and maybe get us some good national publicity of the type they get at other campuses. The students here, however, are going all over town with petitions about their university president. You might assume the petitions call for Father Hesburgh's resignation and quote some radical SDS statement in profane denunciation of Father Hesburgh's 15-minute rule. Believe it or not, the petition does no such thing. It quotes Father Hesburgh and urges support for what the university president had to say about Southeast Asia. 
Those students must be on pot. Can you imagine actually carrying around petitions seeking support for what their university president had to say? And guess to whom they are going to entrust their petitions? Abbie Hoffman? Rennie Davis? No. Now, don't laugh. To Father Hesburgh. Father Hesburgh not only is over 30, but he also is President Nixon's appointee as chairman of the U.S. Civil Rights Commission. Anybody knows college students aren't supposed to trust a man so Establishment that he would accept a presidential appointment. Anyway, this Establishment priest is being asked to take the petitions to President Nixon. This, of course, is another mark of stupidity for the students because they are supposed to have turned their backs on American political customs such as sending petitions to the President. 
To top it all off, the students have won approval for a referendum at ND to determine whether they can have time before the election next fall to work on political campaigns. College students are supposed to seek time off to go to Ft. Lauderdale and riot. And here these kids want time off to work in the American political process. 
What is this college generation coming to? 


AAIJP honors TMH 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesbuigh CSC, ND president, was awarded the Twelfth Annual Alexander Meiklejohn Award by the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) for his outstanding contributions to academic freedom. The presentation was made at the association's fifty-sixth armual meeting in Los Angeles. He is the first president of a Catholic institution of higher learning to receive the prestigious award. 
In nominating Father Hesbur^ for the award, the local AAUP chapter at ND cited his defense of faculty members who had taken unpc^HiIar and unorthodox political and religious positions. They also mentioned his widely-publicized letter to Vice-President Agnew in February, 1969, in which he urged that the federal government maintain a "hands aS" policy in regard to campus 

Father Hesburgh and his MeikJejohn. disturbances. 
MeGrath sueeumbs 
Rt Rev. Msgr. John J. McGrath, 47, president of St Mary's College for the past two years, died unexpectedly of a heart ailment June 9 at St Joseph's Hospital in South Bend. His death came some 24 hours following SMC's 1970 commencement exercises. 
A native of Pittsburgh, Msgr. McGrath received his B.A. from Duquesne U. in 1943 and in 1947 was awarded an L.L.D. from the same university. He was a WW n veteran and practiced law for a time before his ordination to the priesthood in 1954 for the diocese of Stubenville, O. He received a doctorate in canon law from Catholic 
U. in 1957 and joined the faculty there in 1958 as a professor oi comparative law. 
When Msgr. McGrath was named acting president of SMC in November of 1967 he became the first man to hold the office in the college's 124­year history. He was elected per­manent president in May of 1968 and was inaugurated in September of the same year. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, ND president, issued the following 

Summer sports eamp underway 
Tiie ND Summer Sports Camp began its second season June 14. The program, for boys of 8 to 16 years of age, is again directed by Dominick J. Napolitano, associate professor of physical education at the University. 
Tins year's camp features instruction by the ND coaching staff assisted by University athletes. Six sports are being taught including football, basketball, tennis, golf, baseball, and hockey. Some of the lesser-known sports such as fencing, figure skating and weight-lifting have been deleted from this year's schedule due to lack of interest 
The camp is holding four two-week sessions between June 14 and August 
8. Hie fees for each two-week session are $135 for non-boarders and $225 for boarders housed in Uni­versity residence halls. Those staying on campus wiU also eat in the Uni­versity dining hall. 
The camp is sponsored by the Athletic and Convocation Center, where instruction will take {dace. Further information may be obtained by writing Napolitano in care of the Notre Dame Sports Camp, Athletic and Convocation Center, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
They noted Father Hesburgh's continued efforts for freedom of all enquiry, quoting excerpts from his position paper written for the International Federation of Catholic Universities. In part this statement said: 'To perform its teaching and research functions effectively, the Catholic university must have true autonomy and academic freedom. It is limited by no other factor than the truth it pursues. Every limitation imposed on the university which would clash with this . . . would be intolerable and contrary to the very nature of a university." 
The Meiklejohn Award was presented by Professor Sanford H. Kadish, of the U. of California at Berkeley, Chairman of the Associa­tion's esteemed Academic Freed(Hn and Tenure Committee, before delegates of the 85,000 member professors' organization. 
statement: "Msgr. McGrath's un­timely death during a period when St. Mary's and Notre Dame are evolving a new relationship is a loss keenly felt on both campuses. He was a scholar in his field, and he brought leadership to his administra­tive tasks at St Mary's. In a day when college presidents are hard to find, the community has lost a very able one." 
Following a wake and funeral Mass in Whitehall, a suburb of Pittsburgh, Msgr. McGrath's body was returned to the SMC campus where another wake and funeral were held. He was buried in Our Lady Queen of Peace cemetery on the campus. 

Msgr. John McGrath 

New director for BSP 
The University's Black Studies Program, which will ofiBcially begin operation in the fall, has a director. Dr. Joseph W. Scott, an associate professor of sociology at the University of Tdedo, has been named to the newly-created position and will serve as an associate professor in ND's sociology department as well. 
Scott will head the program recently established within the University's College of Arts and Letters. In the new program a student will pursue a double major, one in Black Studies and one in a regularly established department. The director will certify both the courses taught within the Black Studies Program and those already offered by regular departments that qualify toward a 
COLV3MN 
Black Studies major. 
A native of Detroit and a graduate of Central Michigan U., Scott, 35, earned M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Indiana U.. He taught at Kentucky for two years and was a visiting professor at Michigan State before joining the Toledo faculty in 1967. His research areas include social organization, deviant behavior, social conflict, urban problems and race relations. 
In 1967 he was principal investigator of the Kentucky Training Project of the U.S. Department ci HEW, and last June served in a similar capacity for the Crime and Delinquency Inject of the Toledo Model Cities Program. Scott is fluent in Spanish and was a Fulbri^t 
Dr. Joufk W. Seott 
professor to Argentina in die summen of 1967 and 1969. His pablicatioas have appeared in a variety of pn^Essional journals. 



The campus as womb and security blanket 
By Richard W. Conklin, Director Information Services 
Item: A student striker who canvassed South Bend door-to-door to get signatures on Father Hesburgh's end-the-war petition to President Nixon is surprised at the unfriendly reception. 
Ifem: A student reports that "several recent alumni who love ND" are trying to get back to the campus. 
Item: Last year's No. 1 activist as a senior is seen at key strike meetings in May, whifling, perhaps, the glory of confrontations past. 
Item: Several seniors interested in a court test of selective conscientious objection promote the establishment of an on-campus community after graduation. 
None of these items in itself is sinister. But together they spell alma mater as womb and campus as security blanket, and that is the last thing society—or the university— needs. 
To a greater extent than most of us realize, we on campus, both psycho­logically and intellectually, take in each other's laundry. In doing so, it is not surprising that we develop a certain insularity—especially smce many of us live in ND ghettos off-campus and worship in ND-dominated parishes. We come to believe that the context in which problems arise—and decisions such as Nixon's on Cambodia are made—is the context of our everyday experience. Like it or not, it ain't. The context is the "real" worid out there —^the retired postal woricer who thinks Father Hesburgh is naive, the pastor who chases canvassers away from his church door, the angry letter-writers to the South Bend Tribune. 
It would be unfair not to mention efforts, such as the neighborhood study-help program, which have seen hundreds of students go where the problems are. At the same time, one cannot overlook contrary evidence, such as our on-campus Alumni Chib-Senior Bar. As soon as students started encountering some of life's nitty-gritty problems (such as racial antagonism) at South Bend's bars, their solution was to open a spa within the enclave. 
Sociologist Kenneth Kenniston has pointed out that our afiBuent society has extended the period of post-adolescent but pre-adult life. The temptation is to live this out in the comfortable elitist confines of the Universify campus. In the simt qnce of four years, students can create weD­appmnted apartments of the mind friiHn iriiich they do not stir with ease. Even our imaginative educatitnal endeavors—such as communiveisities —too often end with us talking to ourselves. 
The draft miiy encourages extended suckling at academe's breast, but perhaps some form of national service, campalaory but with wide-ranging apdoaa, is the answer. We need a way to force young persons to commit themselves eariy to engagement with social, moral and political problems at a realistic leveL 
As Ted Kennedy told his heckleis at Yale: "I think that protest is becoming Car too comfortaUe, like everything else in America If you want to bring an end to war—then woric to elect men idw agree with you... . If you are still insistent on racial equality, then go irtiere you are needed—to register blacks, to assist with their arguments in court, to offer your services to their cause.... Teach the children, woric with the addict, help them in their community programs.... In short, act in a way meaningful to someone other than yoursdf." 

Media staff reorganized 
The University's public information and publications departments were recently reorganized into a single department of information services under Richard W. Conklin MA'59. Conklin, formerly the director of public information, came to ND in 1967 from the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minn., where he was director of the news bureau and an instructor of journalism. 
Appointed to the new post of associate director of information services is Ronald R. Parent, an alumnus of the University of Maine. Parent did graduate work in journalism at Southern Illinois University before joining the publications staff at Lafayette College in 1966. He was editor of the Lafayette alumni magazine prior to this appointment. 
In his new position Parent will be responsible for the production of all major University publications and also serve as the managing editor of INSIGHT magazine. He replaces John Thurin '59 who resigned as director of publications to start his own graphics and communications firm in South Bend. 

Replacing Tom Sullivan '66 as managing editor of the ALUMNUS is Timothy J. Hughes '61. Following graduate work in English at the University of Iowa, Hughes reported for the Dubuque Telegraph-Herald and then spent three years as an editor for George A. Pflaum publishing company. Prior to his ND appointment he was editor of the Delaware River Port Authority magazine for two years. Sullivan is transferring to the Development Office as regional director for the University with responsibility for eleven southern states. 
Parent Hughes 

Tlieologians support CO 
In November, 1968 the American bishops upheld the right of con­scientious objection. A statement, clarifying that right has been issued by members of the ND theology department. According to Rev. Francis Sullivan CPPS, assistant chairman, the department has become increasingly conscious of the profound moral implications of American military involvement and the con­science crisis faced by many young men. The question of concientious objection is important in the minds of those engaged in day to day counseling of undergraduates facing the draft. 
He added that repeatedly at the­ology department faculty meetings, position papers were presented treating the grave moral questions surrounding the issue. At the conclusion of the school year a precise statement dealing with the specific problem of conscientious objection received the almost un­animous support of the department members. 
Members of the committee who drafted the statement, hope it will offer clear theological support to young men facing the dilemma of choosing between the demands of their country and the demands of their conscience. 
In part the statement reads: 

"Christian conscience, properly understood, is not an unaccountable individual intuition, nor an expression of a merely personal moral code, but a response of faith to the teaching of Scripture and the Church. A Christian, 
Joining the publications staff as chief copy editor is George A. Scheuer '28. Scheuer recently retired as head of the South Bend Tribune copy desk after working for the paper since 1948. Prior to that assignment he reported for the Associated Press, the Chicago Sun, and the South Bend Times. 
Also on the staff of the department of information services are M. Bruce Harlan, University photographer. Jay J. Kane and Mrs. Jean Horiszny, assistant directors of public information, and Mrs. Ann Griffin, production coordinator. 
Scheuer Sullivan 
applying honestly the "just war" standards, may properly conclude that he cannot participate in the kind of war he now faces. Indeed, sober attention to the reality of contempor­ary war, its goals and methods, makes its moral justification increasingly dubious. 
The fidelity to conscience of such a sincere objector is more than merely tolerable or acceptable. He is to be commended for a costly form of courage, an authentic national loyalty, and a highly useful service to the community. He deserves the same respect and support as the man whose conscience moves him to serve in the armed forces. The nation and its laws should accord to such a conscientious objector the recognition to which he is morally entitled." 

Loi^enstein named Senior FeUoir 
Allard K. Lowenstein, noted Con­gressional dove and opponent of President Nixon's recent move to clean out enemy sanctuaries in Cambodia, just happened to be on campus during Notre Dame's first major student strike. 
Officially, the freshman Congress­man from New York came May 6 to visit senior classes and deliver an evening speech as the Senior Class Fellow. He had been named a Fellow (an award replacing the Patriot of the Year title) by a vote of the senior class, winning over musician Leonard Bernstein, astronaut Frank Borman and historian Arthur Schlesinger. 
He arrived to find classes officially cancelled to allow students to attend teach-ins, religious ceremonies and speeches about the Cambodian situa­tion. The day before, almost half the ND students had remained out of class on strike, and heard Father Hesburgh voice his opposition to the military 
Senior Fellow Lowenstein relating with ND men. 
COLUMN 
Thanks for slieklng around! 
By James D. Cooney, Executive Secretary, Alumni Association 
"Thanks for your time and your guidance. . . ." That was the verbiage on a handout distributed in mid-May for the annual President's dinner. As we approached the northwest door and spied the students distributing leaflets we must confess we expected some traditional radical polemics. We were ashamed when we realized that it was a simple and genuine "thank you" from the young of this campus to their elders. One never ceases to be amazed at this place. 
When the announcement of the Cambodian incursion was made a nearly audible groan went up on campuses across the country. Violence and disruption was the reaction of many. At ND reason and stability prevailed. And the faculty was largely responsible. We'd like to second the students' sentiments about the ND faculty, a group of men and women too often unsung today. Educating today in the midst of the knowledge explosion and at a time when traditions and institutions are undergoing wholesale change is not an easy business. Its difficulties are heightened by campus awareness of world problems and crises. During the week of the Cambodian affair classes were suspended at ND for a day. But the faculty was out in force, visible everywhere, meeting with clusters of students on the main quad, behind the logic which stated a war must be 
widened to be narrowed. 
Rather than visit with classes as he ordinarily would have done, Lowen­stein addressed a crowd of over 2000 students in the Field House. He urged them to organize behind peace candidates running for the Senate and House this year, suggesting that the majority of Americans believed we should either win the war or get out. Since Nixon is not committed to victory, he said, it is clear we should be getting out rather than widening our efforts. 
In his evening talk at the Memorial Library Auditorium, Lowenstein stressed that "the mood of the country can be turned around as it was during Johnson's presidency," and that "our job is to take the facts to the people." Lowenstein was a major power, behind Senator Eugene McCarthy's bid for the Democratic nomination for pres­ident. He stressed that the "system" can work, and urged young people to work for peace candidates rather than resorting to violence. 
A graduate of the University of North Carolina and the Yale Law School, Lowenstein has twice visited South Vietnam. He is the organizer of the Conference of Concerned Democrats which dedicated itself to electing an anti-war Democrat as president. 
ad building, along the lakes, rapping, dialoguing, and importantly, listening. They listened long into the night, and they brought their wisdom and insights to bear at a time when others across the nation were losing their heads. Notre Dame, for many, came of age as a university during those days. A spirit of togetherness permeated the campus. An incredible number of impromptu Masses were said. And, once again Notre Dame achieved another dimension of what it means to be a Catholic university. There are a lot of remarkable people on our faculty, and we thank them for being here. 
BRIEFS





ND's legal lady 
Another "first" for the University. Mrs. Graciela Olivarez, a high school dropout who had spoken largely Spanish in her home and woric, became the first woman to graduate from the Notre Dame Law School at the June 7 ceremony. 
Far from relatives and friends in Phoenix, Ariz., and overwhelmed by the strange academic and all-male atmosphere, Mrs. Olivarez attributes her stay at ND less to courage and stubbornness than to the money involved. "I blew $5,400 on the move," she said. "I worked two jobs for months to earn that money." 
A slender woman with an unusu­ally low, rich voice, Mrs. Olivarez is a veteran of television and radio programs designed to inform Mexican-Americans in the Phoenix area of their rights and opportunities. 
In 1962, she testified before the Civil Rights Commission and began a close friendship with Father Hesburgh, a member of the commis­sion since its inception in 1957. She was impressed with the kind, warm priest who could offer Mass in 

Mrs. Olivarez ponders the future. 
Spanish for remote villages in the 
Southwest, and he admired her 
enviable record of service in Cath­
olic volunteer groups. 
They exchanged notes over the next 
four years, as Mrs. Olivarez took 
on more responsibility as the director 
of the state OflBce of Economic 
Opportunity and b^an attending 
national conferences on issues afiFect­
ing the well-being of Mexican-
Americans. Frustrated by the slow 
pace of action in dealing with the 
daily suffering she witnessed Mis. 
Olivarez says she was ready to join 
the bomb-throweis. 
At that point Father Hesbui^ invited her to attend the ND Law School promising that the normal requirements of a B.A. d^ree could be waived in her case. She took two jobs to earn enou^ money to move her son and n^hew to South Bend and enrolled in 1967. 
A perpetual volunteer since her 17th birthday Mrs. Olivarez led cam­paigns for women's ri^ts at ND. The University golf course, die ^wrts facilities at the Athletic and Con­vocation Center and the Rock swimming pool are now open to the weaker sex. Those masculine citadels might never have been stormed if a certain law student had not testified before a Board of Trustees' committee on student affairs to the effect that the male require­ment was unconstitutional and downright embarrasang in the home of Father Hesburgh, chairman of the U.S. Civil Rights Committee. 

In her third year in law school, Mrs. Olivarez served as a panelist at the White House Conference on Food, Nutrition and Health, helped organize a conference for midwestem and southern Mexican-Americans at ND, and held consulting positions for the National Urban Coalition and the National Commission on Household Employment After graduation her woik will really begin in earnest.. She alrea^ has two appointments, one as a con­sultant on the Nixon population commission, another with the National Urban Coalition. 
Eventually Mrs. Olivarez. wants to go to Alcatraz. A strange ambition? Not for one so vitally OHicemed for the deprived. She Ceds tbc Indians there have a crucial and meaningful problem and she is determined to help them solve it 
Relief grews 
The former Students for Biafran 
Relief organized at ND is now an 
international student organization 
called Students' Worid Concern 
(SWC), with chapters in Italy, 
France, England, Germany, Austria, 
Mexico, Japan and the U.S. 
Thomas S. Hamilton, director of the 
new organization, explains that the 
SWC will continue to focus on the 
Nigerian crisis, especially in the wake 
of reports describing continuing 
starvation and humiliation of the 
defeated Ibo tribesman in eastern 
Nigeria. 
C^eaiBilttee 
Some 200 ND students and faculty members have formed a group to press for the election of senators and repre­sentatives committed to ending the Vietnam war abroad and stepped-up social action at home. 
Called the Notre Dame Committee 
for a New Congress, the organization 
is headed by John Roos, an instructor 
in government, and Patrick Dowdall 
70, Missoula, Mont It is afBliated 
with a national group with head­
quarters at Princeton University, 
where computers are providing a 
clearinghouse for student campaign 
volunteers. 


Research awards 
Awards for research, facilities, equipment and educational and service programs at the University totaled $381,062 for the month of April, according to Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, vice president for research and sponsored programs. 


Maaasfie life 
For 10 ND students in the University's new program for the study and practice of non-violence, the summer of 1970 will offer something radically other than a 40-hour job and week­ends on the beach. 
The students will spend the summer living the monastic life at the Benedictine Mount Saviour Monastery in Ehniia, N.Y. They will be inte­grated into the community as fully as is possible, including the prayer, work and study so fundamental to the monastic tradition. 



The National Scene 
Reporting on a study of campus tensions ... how colleges and universities can help ease them 
• Campus Crisis: After a long, hard look at the causes and effects of campus disruption, a special committee on campus tensions has pointed to a "deeper crisis" in higher education—one of con­fusion and doubt "about where we go from here." The colleges' main constituent groups and the general public cannot agree on the "proper direc­tion of change," the committee declared in a re­port this spring. Nor can the academic community expect to "solve all the problems," many with roots in the larger society, that contribute to campus unrest. 
One thing higher education can do, the com­mittee stressed, is provide for better communica­tion among students, faculty members, adminis­trators, and trustees. "The survival of our system of higher education and its long-term contribution to society depend upon rationality and civility, shared concern, and mutual respect among the members of the academic community," it said— adding that "all must recognize their necessary interdependence." 
While acknowledging that improved communi­cation was no cure-all, the committee observed that "it usually results in sounder educational decisions and fosters governance by consensus rather than by force." It noted, moreover, that all four campus groups had cited inadequate communication as a "major cause" of tension. 
For students, the committee urged a "more responsible role in the educational decisions af­fecting them," along with recognition of the "greater adult competence" of faculty members and the administration. For faculty members, it recommended a policy of "compensating in­fluences" to correct an overemphasis on research "at the expense of undergraduate teaching." 
Administrators are properly held accountable for their actions, the committee said, but "espe­cially at the presidential level, responsibility must be accompanied by the necessary authority." The effectiveness of college trustees, meanwhile, is measured "by the extent to which they are well-informed on educational issues, judicious in the^ exercise of their powers, and protective of the prerogatives of all members of the academic community." 
The special committee was appointed about a year ago by the American Council on Education, in part to show that higher education could solve its own problems without punitive legislation. But even as the panel's report was being distributed around the country, serkms student disordeis flared once more, pnnnpted in many cases by the 
U.S. policy in Southeast Asia. At about the same time, Vice-President Agnew offered his own pro­posals for dealing with disruptive students. "First," he said, "the era of appeasement must crane to an end." He advised colleges to enforce dear rules for campus conduct, "with immediate expulsitm the pendty for serious vidations." 
• In Brief: Private gifts to colleges and universi­ties increased 15 per cent last year, reaching a record high of Sl.S-bOlicHi, according to a survey of more than 1,000 institutions. However, if one omits a single $40-miUion gift to one institution, alunmi support rose only 2.6 per cent, compared with an average annual gain of more than 9 per cent in the previous decade . . . 
The investments of leading colleges and uni­versities had an average yield of just over 4 per cent in 1969, up from 3.7 per cent in 1968, an­other survey has shown. The total principal of 70 institutions' endowment fimds was found to have dropped by some $31-milIion, to $7.16­billion... 
State colleges and universities say that they will have to reject a greater number of applicants this year than ever before because of insufScient space and funds. Meanwhile, an "overall natk»al surge in minority enrollments" has been forecast by an association of state universities and land-grant colleges. The association reports that at least half of the Negro undergraduates at 26 pre­dominantly white institutions were in the 1969-70 freshman class 
The concept of faculty tenure has come under fresh scrutiny. Several speakers at a national meeting charged recently that entrenched facul^ privilege was hurting higher education. One suggestion: review tenure periodically to insure against abuses. The American Council on Educa­tion's committee on campus tensions asked for a reappraisal of tenure, which it said had come to serve the function of guaranteeing job security "in the spirit of trade union systems"... 

President Nixon has sought to allay fears that he plans to curtail federal funds for teacher fellowships and foreign language studies . . . The average income of college teachers rose only 1.7 per cent this past year in terms of "real purchas­ing power," reports the American Associatimi of University Professors. 
CLASSES 

It was a stimulating week of rediscovery for the alumni who came back. 



Notre Dame re-visited 
At the conclusion of the three-day assembly the board and senate passed a joint resolution commending the ND commimity for its rational behavior in a time of crisis. The text of the resolution read: The National Board of Directors and the Alumni Senate of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, in joint session, hereby commend the president, administrators, faculty and students of the University for their deep moral concern at this critical moment in our nation's history, and particularly for their constructive implementation of that concern. 
"We commit ourselves, as alumni-of this University, to a heightened understanding of the problems of our times and to constructive efforts toward achieving peace in our day. 
"Inspired by the deep spiritual commitment of all members of the Utuversity community, we commit ourselves to join in unified prayer to seek God's guidance for our president, our nation, and ourselves." 

The fourth annual meeting of the 
National Alumni Board of Directors 
and Alumni Senate took place on campus the weekend of May 7-9. 
Some 92 senators and 12 board members representing clubs around the country participated in the three-day, power-packed agenda which culminated with the Blue-Gold spring football game Saturday afternoon. 
As indicated on p. 1, the alumni representatives arrived during a period of high tension on the ND campus, as well as on other campuses across the land. They were housed in dormitories with students, shared meals with them, and generally lived the ND life, 1970 style, during their stay. They were exposed to the contemporary ND man and his ideas, opinions and concerns. Some representative reactions to their experience can be found on p. 3 . 
The official agenda included meetings with representatives of the administration, faculty and student body and presentations on admissions, student affairs, student life, the role of the rector, residence hall structure, religion on campus, as well as various meals and social functions. Alumni club activities and pFoblems were also discussed thoroughly. 
While all agreed that there was plenty to do during official sessions, most senators and board members also concurred that valuable exchanges and discussion occurred in various parts of the campus after hours. Many reported participating in lengthy "rap" sessions until the eariy hours of the morning with their successors under the Dome. 
Commenting on the weekend, following its conclusion, James D. Cooney, Executive Secretary of the Alumni Association said. Th e general message we've received from alumni who participated is "we had forgotten what life at ND is like. We are impressed with the young men here and very proud to be associated with this University.' Most found the entire experience surprising, refreshing and enlightening." Senators and board members who attended the session were encouraged to report back to their local constituents regarding their impressions following the meeting. 
1970 
FIGHTING IRISH FOOTBALL HOLIDAY IN LAS VEGAS & 

LOS ANGELES 

NOVEMBER 25-29,1970 

CLASS NEWS 
'15 STILL STRONG ROBERT L. ROACH was named by Mayor Bums to fill the unexpired term as utility trustee, Muscatine, Iowa. Bob had served for 14 years previously and this appointment is all the more important because an expan­sion program of about $14 million is in its last stages. It is the largest and most successful municipally owned power plant in Iowa. Sincere Congrats to you. Bob. Hav­ing glanced thru the current issue of the ALUMNUS, Bob says, "Am happy to see that our class rates at the top of the list of contributions to the 1969 Annual Alumni Fund". Jay J. Kane, Annual Alumni Director, sent this comment "Congrats on leading the class ?rith the greatest percentage of contributions. Personally I count this category as the most important because it registers the amoimt of dedication in all the classes. I am also pleased that you registered another increase in the amount contributed by the class." 
As your class secretary, I pass these laudatory remarks on to you who through your gift to your Alma Mater have ^ven an expression of your loyalty to ND. I extend to each of you my sincere thanks and appreciation for your cooperation and generosity in this connection. Some interesting news came from DAVID M. LIPPEATT who resides at Indian Lake Estates, Fla. After completing his education, he enlisted in the Tank Corps during WWI where Dwight D. Eisenhower was their CO. Soon after the war he and his brother went into the mining business. Upon his retirement he moved to Florida. Enclosed with his letter were some snap shots—one with some friends at his home— another of his home and also some where he fishes and where he plays golf. Dave has a son in Santa Ana, Calif., a graduate from Ind. U. in journalism and a daughter, also a graduate from Ind. U. in speech therapy. She teaches in Marion, lU. 
I received a newsy letter from JOSEPH 
A. TANSEY who lives at 113 N. St. Peter St, So. Bend. He sent a recent issue 
For farther infonnation on bolh ''Irish Esci^ades" contact: Alnmni Association University of Notre Dame Notre Dam^ Indiana 46556 
of the Old Courthouse News published 
by the Northern Ind. Historical Society, 
Inc. This copy contains some reminiscences by David on "Cap" Streeter's boat which "Cap" built on the 
north bank of the St. Joseph River, near what is now known as North Side Blvd. 
Anyone interested in this part of the life of "Captain" GEORGE WELLINGTON STREETER is referred to the issues of 
the So. Bend Times 1905-1907. We have David's word for it that "nothing in Dodge Ci^ compared to it" David's wife passed away in 1950 and a dau^ter Kathleen also. She had been JIM ARMSTRONG'S secretary in the early 
1950's before she was married to Joe Donlon Barch '45. He writes, "My youngest son Fred Anthony has been with the FBI for the last 22 years and is stationed in Washington, D.C. My oldest son, James Joseph, is the basketball coach at S.W. Mich. Jr. College. I have two daughters married and 23 grandchildren. I had a coronary about eight years ago with no apparent bad after effects. I'm enjoying good health, thank God, and am living alone in the house where I was bom. I cook my own meals and make it down to St. Joseph's church every morning. Hope to live into the next century. Cod willing." 
1 can always count on faithful correspond­
ent, HENRY J. FRAWLEY SR., Spearfish, 
S.D. to provide me with an account of reminiscences of the good-old-days at ND. For the men of those early years who read this column I'll mention here the names of many of the great men of ND which Hank Frawley has mentioned to me in his letters. Since most, if not all of them have "answered the Divine Call" 111 not use up the space entitled to me to recount the stories he tells about them, interesting as they are, but only mention their names with the thought that it will inspire prayers for them. ART "BISHOP" HAYES, DOLLY GRAY, "PREP" WELL, MIKE CARMODY, DAN SKELLY, POYNT DOWNING, JOSE GARLET, REV. W>A. MALONEY, KNUTE ROCKNE, WM. 'CUTIE' CUSACK, RUPERT MILLS, JOHN HYNES, KERNOT HEALY, TWOOMY CLIFFORD, RED MILLER, BILL SCHMITT, and JOHN P. MURPHY. 
At Christmas time 1 received this note— "Thank you for Christmas Greetings! A card from Irene Feyder LLB '14 brings sad tidings about Ted. He has, as you know, been ill for several years. Yes Ted was a very good mutual friend of ours, and a popular student while attending ND. 
Albert A. Kuble 
117 Sunset Ave. 
LaGtange, 111. 60S25 
'17 MUGGS AND BUGGS How many years does it take to make a legend at ND? We believe that Muggs and Buggs have qualified after more than 55 years. BUGGS O'DONNELL from India­napolis would gather up a bundle of new hymn books in the big church and sell them for a buck apiece to the new boys in Walsh Hall. MUGGS RYAN from Johnstown, Px, would don a pair of old overalls and with a big monkey wrench on his shoulder, charge the same new ones $2 to tum on their radiator. Muggs' father was a daily communicant and died in church of a coronary but his children were known as wild Irish and in the same week of one school year, Muggs was suspended for 60 days for dhorderly conduct, which is like trying to define a personal foul in football: his older brother was expelled from Georgetown and his sister came home from an exclusive convent school and declared she had enou^ and would not go back and she didn't If you have any stories about this inimitable pair, let's hear from some of you lifers. 
PAUL FOGARTY and Hin^K ANDERSON won the annual low ball partners match at the Delray Dunes Country Club, Fla. Hunk shot a 79, which is good on any course. How about you, HUGHIE O'NEILL? Where did you play this winter? We mean golf, of course, Corinne. Ask JOE FLYNN some time to show you his left handed putter, if you never saw one. No report from BEH or VOLL as yet as of March 17. Maybe they told you about their golf at the leunioo. How many still have their 1917 class ring? An ROTC student from Texas was the first recipient of the annual Pat Dixon Award, established by Lt CoL SHERWOOD DIXON, Ret, in memoiy of his son, the late Lt. Pat Dixon, an honor ROTC graduate, who was killed last year in action in Vietnam. 
CHET GRANT was the featured speaker at the 39th annual communion breakfast on March 22 in memoiy of our contemporary Knute Rockne who died on March 31, 1931. Chet is the author of Notre Dame Before Rockne, a most interesting book published last year. And isn't it hard to believe that Rock has been gone for 39 years? JACK CASSIDY, former Att Gen. of III., is doing a fine job as the SUMMA chairman for the Peoria district Have you made your contribution yet? We are trying hard to have the greatest percentage of givers among the Fifty Year group. Since this bit of fluff is being turned in two months in advance for the June issue, because of old debbn deadline, just had to sneak in that alliteration, you will have to provide your own reunion news. If you were there, Charlie, please write to us before June IS and tell us what happened. By the same token, any class news received between April IS and June IS, will be sent in for the combined July and August issue. 
Please be sure to read our column in the next issue. We are going to ask you to vote upon a very important subject 
Dan E. Hilgartner, Jr. PO Box 75 Harbert Mich. 49115 

'18 SOME mCHLIGHTS Remember Birthday Greetings to:— June 13, Dr. EDWARD J. REYNOLDS, 497 Highland Ave., Maiden, Mass. 02148; 
' June 16, LAMBERT Q. SENG, 6508 
N. Glenwood Ave., Chicago, III. 60626; June 29, ALBERT S. O'SULLIVAN, 513 Warren Ave. Belvidere, III. 61008; July 30, GEORGE F. FRANTZ, 720 8th St, Femumore, Wis. 53809; July 9, CHARLES C. CONNOLLY, 2347 Applegate Ave. Klamath Falls, Ore. 97601; July 12, Rev. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS, 311 E. Grove Ave. Rantoul, III. 61866; July 14, THOMAS L. MOORE, Box 2417, Tulsa, Okla. 74101; July 25, WILLIAM M. CARROLL, 'IS, 621 W. Judd St Woodstock, III. 60098; July 28, 'JIM' ARMSTRONG '25. 1049 N. Johnson St So. Bend, Ind. 46628; July 28, GEORGE L. CAVANESS, 428 E. 14th St Tulsa, Okla. 74120; July 29, JAMES 
G. WALLACE, 1132 BeUevue Ave. Syracuse NY 13204; July 30, BERNARD J. VOLL, 606 E. Tutt So. Bend, Ind.; July 31, PAUL FENLON, '19. Sorin HaU. Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6. 
Wedding Aimiversaries: June 1, PETER 
J. RONCHETTI and EDWARD J. REYNOLDS; June 5, GEORGE F. FRANTZ; June 16, RAY C. WHIPPLE; June 25, GEORGE E. HARBERT; June 28, JAMES E. ARMSTRONG; July 1, THOMAS H. KING; July 7, HARRY C. BAUJAN; July 19, ARTHUR J. 'DUTCH­BERGMAN; Aug. 1, PAUL J. FOGARTY and CHARLES W. BACHMAN. 
Rev. C. J. WILLIAMS—was jJeased and delie^ted to have JIM ARMSTRONG -25 and wife 'drop-olT in Rantoul, III. for Mass one Sunday. RICHARD J. MONROE, *I2 is back from hospital after a check-up on his back. WILLIAM E. BRADBURY, "16 entered the V.A. Hospital on Dec. 2 in Danville, III. Something to do about the t>le Ticker." BiU looks good. How about 
sending a card? 

Sincerely hope that you eitioyed your 
return visit to campus and SO Year Chib 
Reunion. May you contimie to enjoy die 
best of health and live to be 100. 
George B. Waage 
330S Wii^twood Ave. 
Chicago, ni. 60647 

'21 TRAVELER'S TALES 
On a NYC visit I saw JOHN BALFE 

April IS. He planned a three week trip, 
leaving the next day, for Irdand, Scotland, 
England and other interesting lands. He 
has become an extensive travder. The Holy 
Land, Rome and many European countries; 
next trip maybe Japan, but, most important 
to ND in June. 

Ever enthusiastic WALTER MILLER 
writes an interesting letter about fun 
experiences while at ND widi PETE 
BAHAN, WALTER CKEEFE and 
Fr. MARR. A colored boy, not too 

bri^t, was put in Pete Bahan's bed, when 
thrown out they put him in Walter's bed. 
The boy was rescued by Father. Next 

was a parade to St Mary's with the boy in 
Army uniform and rifle to invade the 

school. Many stories, sudi as from Walter, 
SHERWOOD DKON and many others 
should be included in my reports but the 
ALUMNUS has limited ^ace to allow. 

So many of us would like to hear at our members that I regret that they do not send information avaflable to pass on in our column. I believe this copy will not come until after the reunion, and up to date information will not come to you imtil the next report 
James H. Ryan 
2470 E. Ave Apt 314 
Rochester, N.Y. 14610 

'22 ANOTHER SUMMONS One more final classmate and &iend has been summoned to his reward. This time the call came to JAMES R. McCABE who resided at 408 South Orange Grove St, LJV., Cal. 90036. Jhn was stricken while dining with friends in San INego, where he was on a business visit This aJSment was diagnosed as a heart seizure. He was hospitalized, but died on March 19. Jim was active in business li^ t up to the time of his death. He was a manufacturer's rep. in the Cal. mart Two ND'ers were among the pall-bearers: EUGENE CALHOUN and JUDGE CARBERRY. Interment was in Holy Cross Cemetery after a Requiem Mass in the Cathedral ChapeL To the widow, Irma, and other family members, we extend our loving sympathy, and promise to assist with prayers and qiiritual bouquets. 
Those of you who loved the golden days at ND will be delisted in reading a book written by one of our classmates. The title of the book is ffheii Dreams Come True by Fr. Jan. llie full name of the author is: REV. SIGMUND A. JAN­KOWSKI CSC who was bom and reared in So. Bend. He tells of catty life in the home of a very religious Pdish family. Then came six years at ND in Hidy Cross Seminary, and then a an0e year in the Novitiate. He will refresh your memories of such brilliant and lovable priests as Frs. Hudson, Scheir, KiiKh, KGltner, Irving, Cornelius HagerQr, OUara, ODonnell. Also, there is Bro. Hugh, the Holy Cross Nuns, Knute Rockne, George Gipp and many others. Fr. Jankowski was 
pastor of St Stanistous in So. Bend 
for many years, and caused a 
large grotto to be erected there. He almost 
forgot to mention that Fr. Jan is a circus 
buff. He now resides at the Mission House, 
ND, Ind. The price of the book is $S. 
The TOM S. McCABES of Ehnhurst, lU. visited Alaska last June and saw much evidence of damage caused by the earth­quake of 1964. They attended the USC game, and then on a motor trip, probed the Cumberland Valley in Indian-Summer. Their next important trip is to Ireland probably in Sept Tom sees JACK RAHE quite frequently. A most welcome Christmas card and personal note was received by your secretary from the WILFRED DWYERS of London, O. They reported their son, John, now resides at 324 Morrissey Hall. In his first year he was on the freshman football team. Now he is science major and is art editor of the campus paper Ictus. Daughter Mary is now Mrs. Boyts. Her hubby, Joseph Michael, is now assistant adviser and administrator of graduate foreign students at St Louis U. Mary herself is a school social worker in downtown St Louis. Son T. G. has stepped in andremodeled Dwyer Bros., Inc.—both furniture and hardware—new life in the old place is great! Oh yes, there is one grandson —Jason by name—about VA years of age. 
The RALPH CORYNS dined with the FRANK BLOEMERS in Louisville on a motor tour stop-off. Later the Coiyns viewed much of the damage wrought by hurricane Camille along the Miss. Gulf Coast Mrs. George (Phyllis) Hene^an of South Bend and her sister, eariier in the year, visited Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, Trinidad, Caracas, Belem, Rio, and the Panama Canal. Their last stop was in New Orleans to see the Jim Henegan. The announcement has been made of the marriage of Mrs. Carl C. wacox of So. Bend to WALTER 
L. SHILTS of 1252 E. LaSalle St, So. Bend in St Joseph's Church on April 4. Very best wishes to the newlyweds. 
Mr. G. A. Ashe 
175 Landing Rd., North 
Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
'23 LOOK AROUND Another good man, our ever ebullient 'DOC' CHARLES T. MORAN, Louisville Oph­thalmologist for 25 years, is gone from a heart attack on Aprfl 18. He leaves a widow, Martha at 2524 Saratoga Dr., 40205, a son. Dr. Charles T. Jr., two daughters, Mrs. E. Robert Faust and Miss Patricia Moran, a brother, John R. Moran and one grandchild. Our own CORNIE PFEIFFER and JOE DONALDSON were at the funeral Mass, .thus ending the togetherness of these three at our Five Year Reunions, a sort of record they had for many years. 
Despite the many letters received this year, it appears that news of individual classmates is scarce. However, we can use your help in another way and together with readers from our neighboring '21 to "25 classes, start a check on the whereabouts of a few of our '23 grads, whom the Alumni Office has not been able to contact by mail. Althoue^ they have chosen to remain apart from the rest of us for all these years, I personally would fike to see all of them at our 'Glittering' reunion three years hence, and if we can only contact them, it could hai^n. Here are the munes and the cities Ibey called home in 1923, so if you'll just drop me a line with their last known address, or even the name of a town you 

think they mi^t be in or near, we may 
have some luck: JAMES X. BELL, Brazil, 
Ind.; LEO C. DUNLEA, Youngstown, O.; 
ELMER T. HOLMBERG, Indianapolis, 
JAMES E. MARTIN, Elwood, 111.; 
JEROME P. MARTIN, Green Bay, Wis.; 
RAYMOND M. MURCH, Alpena, Mich.; 
JOSEPH J. OTT, Eau aaire. Wis.; 
PATRICK J. ROGERS, Newark, O.; 
HENRY T. WALSH, Bridgeport, Conn.; 
STEPHEN C. WILLSON, New York, NY. 
So put on your thinking caps fellows, as Boo^ Ackerman used to tell us, and include anyone else you think is 'lost,'—clergy, Latins, Filipinos, etc., and if Ae results are good, these groups will be listed in the next issue. 
A late note from HI HUNT stating he was due at Mayo's April 20 for his deferred Happy Easter surgery, a remedial soiree found necessary at the time of his meny aifair at Christmas as here-to-fore reported. Said he was nuts to stay on the job for the State of Iowa Revenue Dept untn the April IS Income Tax Deadline, and if he has any brains it'll be the last one he goes through, which in my mind is, to say the least, doubtful! 
JULIUS HERZOG sends a March 8 Houston obit re J. Nat Powers "24, survived by his widow, son, dau^ter and four grandchildren. And from Tuscon, where GERRY RANDALL happily reports his wife Helen back home after a 30 day hosp. stay for a heart condition, an obit re Bob Dixon '24, brother of Jerome "22 and Sherwood "21, in eariy April, leaving a widow and two sons. 
Edward P. Kriewer 
2827 Westbiook Dr. No. 233 
Fort Wayne, Ind. 46805 
'24 m/PS LETTER Once again this is the final issue for the current term as class secretary. If there is a segment of the class that is not getting recognition in this column, please speak up. Perhaps even someone would volunteer to carry on for the 1970-1971 session. A note to Tom Sullivan would put you in. ARNOLD ALEXANDER reversed the usual trend and moved from the suburbs to 2052 N. Lincoln Park W., Chicago 60614 ... . give him a call neighbors. ELBRUDGE "MIKE" LORDEN, has a new address in Rockford, 111., 6220 Park Ridge Rd., zip 61111 (a good poker hand). AL SERVA, Canton, O., where are you? JAMES P. SWIFT wins an oscar for his contribution to this column. Jim is located in the South­western Life Bldg., 1807 Ross Ave., Dallas, Tex. 75201. With his usual interest in anything to do with ND, he sent me a copy of a letter be wrote to Dean WiUiam B. Lawless, Sdiool of Law at ND. All you lawyers will enjoy it I'm sure. Here it is: "Dear Bill: I have read with interest and ideasiu-e A Century of Law at Notre Dame by my beloved and illustrious classmate. Rev. PHILLIP MOORE CSC whose recent demise has brought sadness to the surviving members of the dass. His faithful chrom'de establishes beyond reasonable doubt what the law class of "24 has always believed, that ours was the most 'snake-bit' in the entire one hundred year law school history. In connection with the narrative there are two items which I thou^t you might find of interest: 
"As noted on p. 60 Dean Vurpillat was fired in the summer of 1923 only a few weeks before the be^oning of our final year. With characteristic charily and good taste Fr. Phil purposely omitted the unpleasant details of the factdty controversy involving Vurpillat, Tieman and Waters, but points out (p. 65) that at that time 'the law school was in considerable disarray and morale was at a low ebb.' The fact is that the full-time factdty then consisted only of Thomas F. Konop, the new dean then unknown to us, and professors Tieraan, Frederickson and Waters. In this situation it was natural that some of us considered transferring to other and better law schools. To his everiasting credit Fr. Walsh, newly-elected pres. of ND, called a meeting of our class (and perhaps otheis) at which he frankly admitted the deplorable state of the law school, promised the best efforts of the admin, to correct the situation, and stated that if any student desired to transfer, ND would rush his record and credentials to the school of his choice. At the close of his remarks he was given a standing ovation, and not one man transferred! To me this action by Fr. Walsh and reaction by the students has represented one of the unsung manifestations of the fabled Spirit of ND. 
" 'Snake-bit' as we unquestionably were, the law class of '24 is not without distinction on the bench or at the bar. According to the Dome we had 55 graduates, none of whom were on law scholarships. To my personal knowledge at least ten did not embark upon a law career. In the inter­vening 45 years at least 22 have passed away while actively and succes^uOy engaged as career lawyers or judges. Of the remaining 23, some have disappeared from the records of the U. Last year when we celebrated our 45th anniversary on the campus with Father Phil there were at least ten members still active in their careers. They are EARLE HURLEY. Chicago; JIM HURLEY, LaSaUe, lU.; FARRELL JOHN­SON and GENE MAYL, Dayton; LOUIE LUJAN, Albuquerque; VERNON MON­TIEL, Kansas City, Mo.; TOM BARBER. Erie, Pa.; TOM DONOVAN, Chicago; VINCE HALLORAN, Worthington, Minn.; and myself at Dallas where success is questionable but activity imcontrovertible. As you know Martindale-Hubble does not rate judges. Of the seven surviving practitioners, four are top rated a-v, and two are rated b-v because of their limited specialties, and one is not rated. I submit that our class record (at least 58 percent known to be career lawyers in several different states) compares favorably with any other class from ND or elsewhere even though our law school facilities were admittedly inferior, and we were without benefit of scholarships. 
"If I may be absolved of the sin of unabashed pride in my classmates I will go and sin no more. But before I go, may I suggest that proficiency in the practice of our profession is not necessarily the product of law school instruction or scholarships. In some cases it is achieved by individual strength and awkwardness, possibly enhanced by the resourcefulness of the Fighting Irish. With all best personal regards, I am .. . . Cordially" 
Hope to hear from many of you over the summer months, 
James P. Durcan 5400 SW SchoUs Feny Rd. Pordand, Ore. 97225 
'25 SOME OBITS The Aluomi 0£Bce and classmates have 
advised me that fooT of my flood fiiendi and dassmates have passed away^JAMES WRAPE (Mar. 29). RC»ERT NXOH (Mar. 4). ROSWELL OEIM (Apr. 11). and JOSEPH •KXULEN (Apr. 12). MMKS win be said for each one and be sure to remember these fdlows in your payets. AL SOMMEK notified me that Joe Tookn had a heart attack. He hadn't been wefl for some time and Al was hoping Joe ni ^ make our 45th with Um. As Al said "We will miss Joe's Irish wit and easy manner in our future reunioiB." Hie same dqr I got Al's letter I received a phime call itom FRANK HOWLAND in Detroit tdlinc m of Joe's death. Frank and hb wife had just returned ftom a trip to the Far East. They had a wonderful visit with TONY GONZALAS and his wife. PAUL DUFAUD, our dass correspondent from Tucson. Ariz. (2115 E. Hampton) sent me a news item on Bob Dixon. Bob as yon remember was from Dixon. IlL (named after his grandfather). He had an eaiiy retirement as a lawyer with the govt. Aie to an illness of long duratioiL 
WALTER HALL and his wife Hden came down from Minneapolis to eiqoy Ae sunshine of Ariz, and Calif. Walter is retired from the Red Owl store chain. Paul Dufand thanked me for bringing the news of "our gang" to him . . . the real "thank you" should go to the fdlows writing to me. There is so much news this time I win try to shorten it up otherwise it wiD be "cot off." JOHN D. MAHON, Cleve­land wanted JOE BURKE or RAY DE COURCEY for a roommate. Joe said be was coming and Ray is usuaBy on deck. CHUCK CASEY liked the Flanner Tower idea plus and a big phis, the devatois. He drove in from Peoria. AL C. MUELLER, Qevdand attended UND Ni^t there and heard JIM CROWLEY give one of his usual sparkling talks. Jim was on our pand at our dass dinner along with our other speakers Judge JOHN KILKINNEY. JAMES ARMSTRONG and Bishop JOHN KING MUSSIO. DON MILLER was the chainnan. Don sent a note thanking me for my Congrats note on his dection to the Hall of Fame. Don's 20 grandchildren are all happy and his family is looking forward to his inducticm at the Waldorf on Dec. 8. Most «n of Ae letters he received ftom his dassmates said they would be bade June 
12. 13 & 14 f^ now to be there. 
Saw some '2Sers in Rome when our biidflc dub was at the same hotd as the ISO ND group: Marion and JIM ARMSTRONG, JOHN BARTLEY and Hden and JACK COURTNEY. Bin Coibett -27 and fab wife were with thb crowd. Pope Paul greeted aU the Notre Dame'ers aid extended warm greetings to Fr. Hesburgh. A final note on the death of DAN HICKEY. Fdi. 9. Dan suffered a stroke vdule vacationing in CoL Our editor of The Jug^er subsequently had been editor of a national magarhiB and for many years prior to hh death Dan was VP of an importing firm. Thb news was sent to me by Ed Rafter "28. a cousin of Dan's. I made a quick phone caD a few weeks ago on my wayfirom the K ^ Point furniture market irtien the pbne came down in Roanoke, Va., trying to get ANSE MILLER to come bac^ .. . he mi^t surprise us. REMEMBER ITS YOUR PRESENCE THAT MAKES A REUNION GREAT. 
John P. Hmfey 208S Brookdale Rd. T(dedo,Ofaio 
IS 

history, Bedford, Va.; Paul Byme, 
librarian and art curator, Syracuse, 
N.Y.; R. M. Kaczmarek, biology. 
Evergreen, Colo.; and Carl C. Stevason, engineering, Mt. Dora, Fla. 


Old f aees • • • new places 
Dr. Robert E. Christin, teacher of English and director of freshman English at ND from 1953 to 1965, has become third president, the first layman to hold the position, of St Norbert's College, West De Pere, Wis. He began his term in July, 1969, but was formally inaugurated May 9, 1970. From 1965 until July he was in Washington, D.C., as director of a non-profit organization under contract with the government to help ad­minister Project Upward Bound, an experience he calls "exciting and fruitful." St Norbert's, founded in 1893 by the Norbertine Fathers, has some 1700 students (coed) and a faculty of 22 priests, three nuns, 81 lay teachers and eight ROTC instruc­tors. Last fall, in an address that received wide, favorable public attention, he challenged the faculty to approve a series of structural and curricular changes designed to provide the flexibility that today's world demands, and answer the demands that tomorrow's students will make. The faculty responded not only by accepting almost all Dr. Christin's proposals, but in some cases by going beyond what he asked. Says he: "TTiis is equally exciting, liie chal­lenges are immense. All private colleges are suffering financially, and during the next five years we will know whether or not any private colleges in this country will continue to exist... I enjoy being back on campus working more closely with 
'27 ETHICAL MIKE 

All of our classmates will be pleased to know that on March 1 MIKE SWYGERT became Chief Judge of the 
U.S. Circuit Ct. of Appeals in Chicago. This elevation climaxed his career as a Federal Judge which began in 1942 when he was appointed a Dist. Judge for the Northern t)ist. of Ind. He has been on the Circuit Ct of Appeals now for several years. During all the time he has served there has never been even a suggestion of any conduct which did not conform to the highest standard of ethics. At any other time this distinction might not be particularly newsworthy but in view of the recent misfortunes which have afflicted many courts it is refreshing to bring this to the attention of Mike's classmates. I am sure many of us have often thought that Mike himself would make an excellent nominee for the highest court in the land. 
ART MONACO conUnues to furnish timely information about classmates from 
students; at the same time I miss ND, I miss teaching and I miss many good friends in South Bend." 
Rev. Frank Gartland CSC, prefect of religion and editor of the Religious Bulletin 1938-40, is back at his old trade, this time as chaplain to 1700 students at coed King's College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. He also edits the weekly religious bulletin. Quest. For most of the time between ND and King's he served in the Catholic press apostolate, seven years as youth editor of Our Sunday Visitor and 14 as editor of The Catholic Boy. He has also been vocation director for the Holy Cross Fathers' Eastern Province and has given high school and college retreats in more than 30 states from coast to coast 
Among well-known campus personalities now retired are Harry J. McLellan, engineering, now in Sun City, Ariz.; T. Bowyer Campbell, 
The following former members of the faculty are still active elsewhere: Jerome Taylor teaches English at the 
U. of Chicago; John F. Nims, visiting professor of poetry at Harvard last year, teaches English at the U. of Illinois, Chicago campus; William O. Shanahan teaches history at Hunter College and lives in Katonah, N.Y.; John Mizell is chairman of the department of biological sciences at Sacramento State College, Calif.; Alvan S. Ryan is chairman of the humanities division, Boston campus, 
U. of Massachusetts; and Rev. James 
E. Norton CSC is in admissions work for the U. of Portiand in Oregon while a member of the Holy Cross Fathers' mission house in San Leandro, Cal. 
Rev. John Wilson CSC Box D Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Bob Christin and family arriving at St. Norberts. 
all over. He writes that like an increasing number of others, DAVE MICKEY is retired and living in Calif. Dave goes to Las Vegas once in a while and tries his luck at the tables. I have not been advised of the results. ED MULLEN is practicing law in Fonda, la. and doing well. ED DeCLERCQ, who used to reside in So. Bend has now been living, for a number of years, in Roswell, N.M. He is feeling iine and going strong. Our class pres., DAN CUNNINGHAM, has practically recovered from his illness of last fall although he still has to be careful of the weather and his diet He recently spent a few weeks in Jamaica, which should help a lot In a note which JOE NULTY, now retired, sent recently he says that he expects to make the next reunion in '72, Cod willing. That occasion is not so far away ^ all too soon we must begin preparations for that event Clarence J. Ruddy 111 W. Downer Place Aurora, lU. 60504 '28 STILL KICKING BOTTS CROWLEY sent me an excellent picture of him taken at the Rockne Memorial in Voss, Norway, on his trip last summer. Bolts is enjoying his retirement. The Reds, however, have him selling season tickets again. He is looking forward to another great reunion in '73. PHIL CENEDELLA called from Umon­town. Pa., to give me a report on his trip to Italy with Jim Armstrong's ND group. FRANCIS MEYER and Rev. LOU THORNTON CSC made the trip. Phil stopped to see BILL (WEE) BROWN in East Orange, NJ where Bill is still fiscal officer for the school system there. Phil visits his 92-year-old mother regularly in Mass. When Phil returned to our 2S-year reunion he maintained that his mother still received his ALUMNUS and refused to permit him to change his home address since she reads my column regularly. 
I visited our class president ED QUINN and ANDY BOYLE, who are asst deans of Freshman Year Studies at ND. Ed Quinn is working on arrangements for our 15th annual post-game cocktail party after the Purdue game on Sept. 26. Thanks to the good work done by Ed and Helena, these parties are better attended each year. Plan to be with us in Sept. when you order your tickets. BILL KEARNEY is in the hospital in Evanston following a heart attack. Bill's close friend, BERT KORZEN, reports that he is making progress. Bert is the Democratic candidate for Cook County Treasurer this year. FRANK. CREADON was a delegate again this year to the American Mosquito Assn. Since it was in Oregon this year, he saw Rev. GEORGE DUM CSC at PorUand U. where they discussed their common interest in music. Frank visited FRANK HAGENBARTH in Spokane and reminisced about glee-club days in 1926-27 at ND. Frank Hagenbarth has four children. He is a purchasing coordinator in the lumber business. 
GEORGE KELLEY is looking forward to working in the new plant being built to house his paper. The Vindicator, in Youngstown and is postponing his retirement until he puts out a historical edition. George and Laura are looking forward to a visit to Ireland, Scotland, and England soon. It is always good to receive another poem written by SAM DUNNE for St Patrick's Day. This year it was in honor of his brother Bert. Sam reports that he never knew loafing could be so lovely. BOB HAMILTON and his wife flew to London and back with their daughter on her first trip as a Pan-Am stewardess. Another daughter is teaching in Ponce, P.R., and the third hasn't let her four children interfere with her obtaining a second MA. Incidentally, my daughter received her MA recently. She has seven children. Bob's mother is 97 years of age. Judge BILL JONES called on his way back to Washington after having presided at the Practice Trial Court at ND Law School. In a TV interview show recently Sen. Vance Hartke referred to Judge GEORGE BEAMER as an example of a judge who is recognized for his legal ability. 
We had dinner with VINCE CARNEY in Chicago recently. Vince and several other classmates mentioned how pleased they were to receive a letter from Rev. JIM McSHANE SJ who is doing great work in Honduras. Fr. Jim joined the Jesuits 40 years ago. He mentioned that Dr. BERNARD CROWLEY took good care of him in. Wichita, Kan. recently where Fr. Jim was giving recruiting talks about Honduras. Bemie Crowley's son was one of Jim's high school audience there. Fr. Jim also advised me that Judge Bill Jones and LARRY MOORE "29 helped him obtain a movie on chaplain's work under fire. I was pleased to see the Class of '28 again giving the largest amount to the Annual Alumni Fund in 1969. Of the classes prior to 1950, ours was second highest on percentage of class contributing with 53 percent. We are indebted to PAT CANNY and his successor, BILL DWYER, for the excellent job they did as Class Agent during 1969. BILL GOELITZ retired a year ago from Sears Roebuck & Co. Please keep me advised of other additions to our retiree list. You may have noted that three of the four letters from graduates before 1933 in the "Alumni Ask" column in the Jan.-Feb. 
ALUMNUS were from 1928 men. BILL DWYER, our class agent, has our sympathy on the death of his mother. 
As usual, the '28 Class was well represented at Universal ND Night in Chicago, with the following classmates in attendance: F. CREADON, J. GRIFFIN, 
E. McKEOWN, H. PHALIN, R. RIGNEY, 
R. MULLIGAN, E. RAFTER, C. SCHUESSLER, R. TROTTER, J. LYONS, 
R. LussoN, G. MCLAUGHLIN and 
W. DWYER. Bill Dwyer again served as chrmn. of the nominating committee for the Chicago ND Club. Louis F. Buckley 6415 N. Sheridan Rd. Chicago, 111. 60626 
'29 AFTER PURDUE The annual Class of '29 football get-together will follow the Purdue game Sept. 
27. We hope to see you there! 
On Easter Sunday, Rev. George May, son of the BILL MAYs, offered his first concelebrated Mass of Thanksgiving at St. Philomena Church, Peoria, 111. The ordination service was conferred by Archbishop Luigi Raimondi, Apostolic Delegate to the U.S. at Christ the King Church, Columbus, O. Fr. George will serve the Diocese of Peoria. A quote from Bill's note to your secretary follows: ". . . while I am not much of a hand at writing, I find the news about my son's ordination too good to keep. It would be an honor to us should you be able to attend his first Mass. I missed the class reum'on last year because of his ordination to the Diaconate. Sorry I was not able to be there, but I am hoping to make the next one." Due to conflicting Easter plans the Stauders did not attend the first Mass. Only the parents of a priest can fully appreciate the joy of the May family, but year by year, it is easier for us to give a high place to those who cooperate with God and His plan. It is refreshing to be able to identify with a class that shares in news and blessings like this, especially in this age, often characterized as one of selfishness and secular accomplishments. We have this short note from HAROLD S. BAIR— "Had word from JOE KRAKER that he is slowly recovering from a head injury sustained in Sept. JERRY OWELLETTE, of Miami, Fla., has remarried. Yours truly is still in the church goods business in Fresno. My son Jack 'S8 has moved to the Los Angeles area as regional sales mgr. for Canteen Corp." JACK Mc-CLAREN now living at 4850 Narragansett No. 1, San Diego, Calif., writes: "I recently received my real estate salesman license from the state of Calif.—just in time to run into the tight money market My daughter Kay has given us four granddaughters. Son Tom is father of a grandson and a granddaughter, also has a 'runner on second.' Daughter Melissa is a freshman at Santa Clara and daughter Martha is in her junior year at Pt. Loma High." 
R. A. MASTERSON writes from Peoria, 111., to say that his son James '59, who is employed by Caterpillar Tractor Co., was recently transferred from Geneva^ Switeeriand to Hong Kong. BOB TROTTER is still going strong with Great Lakes Dredge & Docks in Chicago. His brother Jim '33 is in business for himself in Chicago. Bob and BILL WILBUR were at the April Chicago Club meeting when I saw them. Bill has a son in his frosh year at ND. Rev. OTEY WINCHESTER was the source of this information: "JOHN 
F. MORAN died on March 12. I didn't hear about it until late Fri. and the funeral was Sat the 14. These are the only detiuls that 1 have." John's address had been IIS Jennette Dr., Youngstown, 
O. In behalf of the class we extend our condolences to his family and a promise of remembrance of John in our prayers. This is belated mention of the July 1969 death of John C. Meagher Jr. '65, son of JOHN C. MEAGHER "29 of Bay City, Mich. The death was caused by a heart attack while water skiing. We are sorry Jack and add our prayers and sympathy, belated but sincere. 
In a previous issue we mentioned that class pres. BOB VOGELWEDE wrote that he was making an early spring trip to Mexico. At that time due to column space restrictions we omitted this para­graph: "I was interested in BOB NEWBOLD's account of the ordination of his son Ronait My eldest son. Bob, Jr., will be ordained as a Jesuit in June. Hope we don't have to wait until 1974, as you suggested, for Newbold, Kraker, May et al., to compare notes. I think that after the Sept 27 Purdue game would be more appropriate." 
Lawrence F. Stauder 
Electrical Engineering Department 
Engineering Building Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'30 THIRTY THOUGHTS KARL BRENNAN was accompanied to the reunion by his son, a Jesuit Karl still lives in Rockford, lU. TIM TOOMEY reported that he had good reunion news from ART ERRA of Phoenix, and from JOHN "LEFTY" MORAN and BOB SAVAGE of Chicago. Tim has a new address: 216 Hillside Ave., Arlington, Mass. 02174. BOB COONEY in Washington wrote about the Greyhound Pilgrimage planned to depart D.C. June 11, for the reunion and then leave the ND campus June 14, for the return trip. Fellows from several eastern sites were climbing aboard. DAN CANNON was rounding up HOWIE SMITH and JOHN ABERNATHY for the trip to the reimion. 
BUD ROSEWARNE of Grand Rapids wrote that he was awaiting details on the reunion weekend, which he has long since received. But E. W. HALLORAN, chief magistrate in Tempe, Ariz., had to cancel out on us because of com­mitments he could not dodge. Dr. BOB MacDONALD, practicing in Pittsburgh, had to renege on the Fortieth reunion, but wanted to be remembered to all his friends in the class. But DUTCH HINSEN­CAMP was planning to be on hand to lament the passing of old Sophomore Hall. The next issue of the ALUMNUS should carry much reunion news because the Fortieth veterans will have come and gone. 
Devere T. Plunkett O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'31 NO RESPONSE Fred Barr '26, brother of JIM BARR of our class, sent a clipping from the Bardstown, Ky., Standard telling of the life and tteath of our dassnuite GEORGE SPALDING. He was known as Xaverian Bro. Martin John and had been a teacher of English in many of the order's schools, and was the author of "Bardstown, Town of Tradition." His last campus visit was our 30th reunion. Jim is exec, sec for the Tuna Research Found, and lives in Long Beach, Calif. 
Ray Collins was in Kalamazoo for the funeral of Dorothy DESMOND, wife of JERRY, who died in late March. She had been ill for almost a year. Ray also informed me of the death of JIM O'BRIEN, who lived on the south side of CUcago. Please remember our classmates and Dorothy Desmond in your prayers. JOHN FORD MEAGHER was in town for the NAB meeting last month and I was able to spend a few hours with him. John is living in the Washington, D.C. area and manages to visit many classmates during his trips. 
This is not much in the way of news, but my letters around the country have not drawn responses to date. Please send news on summer ND activities and start planning for June 1971. 
James T. Doyle 
1567 Ridge Ave. 
Evanston, HI. 60201 
'32 FEAST OR FAIMINE 

It's feast or famine! Last issue I received a note from Editor Tom Sullivan apologizing for returning some of my copy in that it was too long. Now I am practically without news. Nobody—but nobody—^wrote. Maybe it's spring fever. Well, a few items—PAUL HOWE retired Jan. 31 as head of the College Housing Program in the Fhila. regional ofiSces of the US DepL of Housing and Urban Develop. Paul, who began his federal career as a program official in the Federal Works Agency, has relocated with his wife on Sanibel Island, Fla. Good luck, Paul. Part of the deleted material in the last issue had to do with ART HIMBERT. It told of Art's illness and said "A special page of Herald was run off on a proof press to be sent to him, hopefully to get his mind off those pretty nurses and get it back on the office, where he belongs." The story ended by announcing that every­one on the Herald, from top execs to printers, were going to picket Baptist Hospital, carrying large banners: "Give us our Arthur! We need him." We understand Art now is at Homosassa Springs, Fla., so drop him a note. 
Then a note from HOWARD DeVAULT, Muncie, Ind.: "Retired for third time(?) temporarily. Son, Mike, coaches at Jefferson in So. Bend. Son, Steve, is a captain in the USA and after Vietnam, completed copter flying school, now in career command school, FL Benning, Ga. Saw Purdue, MSU and USC football and UCLA-MSU basketball games, so frequent visitor to campus. Best regards to all in 1927 and 1932 (my two classes)." 
WILLIAM C. OTTO has moved from Detroit to 2649 Golfview Dr., Troy, Mich. Sounds like Bill got close to a golf course—^Fore! 
I am on my way to Chicago for a seminar which will be past tense when you read this and I have warned FRAN OELERICH of my arrival. Hope to see a bunch of our classmates Yitiit in the Windy City. 
Florence J. McCarthy 6 River Rd. Scarsdale, N.Y, 10583 '33 FAT'S AWARDS The PAT CROWLEYs are still winning awards. The Nat Conf. of Chiistiaiis and Jews was addressed by the Rev. Theodore 

M. Hesbur^ CSC at a Conf. awards luncheon in Chicago on Maidi 3 where Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Croiriey were honored. STEVE BANAS writes that RAY BRANCHEAU recently took d«ly cobalt treatments for seven weeks at the UCLA clinic. Ray was improved and in wonderful sixrits when he and his wife returned to Silver City, NM. Steve and wife Fran visited Brancheau while he was at the clinic. NICK LUKATS (of late, late movie fame) also was in touch vrith Ray. (How about rejoining your '33 group, Nick?) Later Steve mtuled a postcard from Colombia, SA, where he visited the salt mines after being in Honolulu for Christmas. Thanks, Steve, for taking time from your busy schedule to give us the news. Well remember Ray in our prayers and I'm certiun his old roommate. Rev. Dick Panish, will be in touch. 
JIM GEREND sent the sad news of another death of a dassmate, JOHN B. NICHOLS, an attorney in Milwaukee since 1937. John died on Feb. 27 after a heart attack. He is survived by his widow, LudUe, who re­sides at 5550 North Lake Drive, Milwaukee, Wis. 53217. I wdl remember visiting widi JcAn at our last ND reunion. A campus Mass in his memory was offered on March 8. Jim regretted not being able to attend our pre-Army game reunion but heard it was well chaired by his old roommate, CHARLIE QUINN. Also making the get-together succKsfid were Chariie's lovely wife, Jeanne, and our mutual good friend, SAM HYDE. When on the West Coast, Jim visted Rev. LLOYD TESKE at Portland U. and later was entertained in LA by GENE CAL­HOUN and his wife, Veronica. Eventually the much-traveled Mr. Gerend adnutted he lives near the Marquette U. campus and sees Rev. JIM CORRIGAN '35 iriio is the pastor of his parish cfaurdi, the Gesu. Dr. BOB DONOVAN was the team lAysician for the ND hockey team when they played BC this irinter. MAURIE DeWALD had a wonderful time at the Cotton Bowl but didn't see any classmates. HUGH COLOPY moved his office from the Second National Bldg. to ISOO Akron Center Bldg., 1 Cascade Plaza, Akron 44308. 
S. JEROME ROACH died on Fdi. 9, and is survived by his widow, who resides at 234 East Glenguile Ave., Kalamazoo, Mich. 49004. Jerry was a good friend of oin- class pres.. Judge MOE LEE. Another dassmate death on Sept 28, 1967, was DANIEL B. CONUN. This was our first notice and a bdated sympathy note was just sent to his widow at 1158 Hi^ey St, Toledo, O. 43612. I wen remember Dan's wonderful smile and know his family misses him. EDWARD J. HUGHES Jr. joined the So. Bend firm of Charies W. Cole and Son, Inc. where he heads the elec. power dept Ed had been with the Ind. & Midi. Elec. Co. for 19 years. ROBERT J. MONAHAN was promoted to the rank of full prof. at Nichols College, Dudley, Mass. Bob, an attorney since 1936, johied the facidty in 1959 and teaches bits. law. PAT MURPHY says his son, George '62, will take his doctoral comp. exam, at the Wash. U. (Seatde) in April '70. 
He previously recdved an MA from ND in '63 and a MFA from Hawaii U. in June '66. Congrats to the Murphys. PHIL FAHERTY went to the Garden for the NYU-ND game but didn't say if he saw any classmates. Phn Jr. '64 returns from Vietnam to help the old man in the famous Faherty law firm. 
Before comideting this column a letter arrived from Mrs. STEPHEN L. HORN­YAK, telling me Steve had died Feb. 19. The Homyaks were married on campus in Sacred Heart Church, May 3, 1941, by Fr. Clancy with Fr. Finnegan saying the Mass. Among their pleasant memories was a trip last Oct to the ND-Tidane game in New Orieans viiere they met Rita and HERB GIORGIO '32. We all pray our families will have as blessed memories of us as Steve's does of him. Their address: 2401 Qyde Rd., Homewood, lU. 60430. MARTIN L. HUGHES is the chief dep. sheriff of St Louis. Irene and I even met ND men at son Marty's wedding in Puerto Rico. Lt Joseph R. Novello '62 attended the ceremony. Joe is the senior ffight surgeon at tfie US Naval Station, Roosevelt Roads. 
Chariie A. Conley 
100 East Tumbull Ave. 
Havertown, Pa. 19083 
'34 LOTS HERE 
JOHN E. CLAUDER of MUwaukee reports seeing PAUL LA FRAMBOISE in (Quebec City, P.Z. Paul's son, an ND grad of 1951 (can this be so?), also lives in Quebec City; John is all for McLaughlin's idea to have a reunion after one of the 1971 basketball games. He said he wiU try to get ED LEE, JOHN BRUST, and JACK GRIESER to attend also. Col. DESLOGE BROWN reports he left ND in 1933, joined the Army and grad­uated from West Point in 1938. After serving 30 years, he retired in 1968. He is now emidoyed by the Fed. Power Comsn., Washington, D.C. ALDEN C. OLANDER has moved to Apt 1-W, 533 
W. Melrose, Chicago, lU. 60658. THOMAS J. UMPHREY has moved to 7200 N.W. 74th, Miami, Ha. 33166. 
THOMAS J. HARRINGTON, 105 Wash­ington Road, Scranton, Fa. 18508, sends this report: "My son, Mike, graduated from ND in June, 1%8. I nussed the 35th reunion—^wrecked my car on the trip out to graduation the week before. Have been with the Penn. Dept. of Highways since 1936—Dist Eng. in N.E. Pa.— Headquarters in Dunmore." AGNES MARIE WIEDL sends following news: "This is in behalf of my husband, Mike, and I'm sorry it can't be larger. Mike has been ill since 1954 (stroke) and is now pretty much a shut-in. Our son, Mike III, is an ND grad (1960) and two daughters finished at St Mary's (Kathy Wiedl Metder, 1963, and Rosemary, 1%7, who married Peter King, a '68 ND law grad). Another son, Steve, has apidied for admisaon to ND in Sept, 1970. GENE BLISH, '34, visited Mike a few weeks ago and Mike really enjoyed seeing him." 
PAUL McMANUS, 7411-D Sidoff Dr., Hazdwood, Mo. 63042, writes: "After having lived in Puerto Rico for 20 years, I returned to the US in 1964, spent two years in Jacksonville, Fla., two more in Phoenix, Ariz, and since 1968 have been in St Louis—always with the same company. Universal Match. Am presently in the company's home oflSce as dir. of our intemat dept Married (to a native of Dublin, Ireland)—One daughter, now a freshman at Missouri U." Msgr. JAMES V. MOSCOW, dir. of Catholic hospitals in Chicago, broke ground for a new church on April 20. Jim was reelected chaplain of the ND Club of Chicago. Saw FRED WEIDNER at the UND Night Dinner, held at the Sherman House. BERNIE HEN­NESSY expects to see HARVEY 

P. ROCKWELL Jr. and JOHN J. KINSELLA at the 40th reunion for Aquinas Institute Oass of '30. John now Uves at 3295 W. Lake Rd., Canandaigua, 
N.Y. John has spent most of his time in South America after graduating from ND. 
Bemie had two letters from JOE CLARK. Joe was reminiscing about time spent in Saipan during World War 11. Son David is with Peace Corps, stationed at Agricultural Station in West Malaysia. Noreen Hennessy will enroll at Boston U. this fall. This is keeping Nadine Hen­nessy very busy. JOHN MAHER sent a copy of a book about Irish famine last month. Really a great book! DAVID FROEHLICH is now exec. VP and gen. mgr. of Fasano Pie Co. Dave claims they are as good as mother's, and better than others. GEORGE MENARD is Farm Program Director, CBS, WBBM-TV, Chicago, lU. 
JAMES R. MORRISON is pres. of Morrison, Inc., Heating and Plumbing Co., 1834 Summer SL, Hammond, Ind. RICHARD D. O'CONNOR is phys. ed. dir. at Hawthorne School, 3119 N. CUfton St, Chicago, lU. Dr. ALDAN 
F. O'HEARN is dir. of purchases, Chicago Bd. of Ed., 228 N. LaSaUe St., Chicago, 111. JOHN J. OITZINGER is with the FBI, 219 S. Dearborn St, Chicago, HI. 60604. JULIAN J. PODRAZA is eng. of repair operations, Dept of Public Works for the City of Chicago, 320 
N. LaSalle St., Chicago, 111. 
Edward M. Moran 2501 N. Central Ave. Chicago, 111. 60639 
'35 WERE YOU THERE? In the event this issue reaches you on schedule, airaut June 18 or so, here's hoping you were able to join more than five score '3Sers who attended our reunion ex­travaganza. Sony to say that no class tidbits came my way since the last issue, but the reunion should bring forth plenty of ammunition for the next secretary. 
As one of several committee members for the last 25 years I speak for the So. Bend group in saying "thanks a million" to those who have contributed to our pre-reunion kitty for this as well as past reunions—and a special thanks to those who did so, knowing full well they could not attend. The cooperation has been terrific and an incentive for the committee to put forth our best efforts to make the 35th reunion a standout among all classes. It may seem presumptuous on my part, as a committee member, but I feel impelled to use this last column by your -"interim" secretary to point out that you have had some dedicated guys working for you for 25 years and particu­larly dedicated chairmen. DOC McCRALEY has gone beyond the call of duty as a major domo this time just as his predecessors have done and I am sure 

Congrats 
E. R. HAGGAR '38 has been appointed Dallas cbainnan for the National Alliance of Business­men. He will direct the organization's efforts to locate jobs for the disadvantaged. 
EDWARD J. HART '40 was pro­moted to division vice-president, commercial electronics communi­cations systems, in the RCA Commercial Electronics Systems, Camden, N.J. Mr. Hart joined RCA in 1953 as a microwave sales coordinator. 
ROBERT W. GALVIN '44, chair­man of the board and chief executive officer, Motonda Inc., Chicago, has received the electronic industry's highest per­sonal award, the EIA Medal of Honor. One of ND's 12 Fel­lows, he is also trustee of the Illinois Institute of Technology and a director of Jimior Achieve­ment of Chicago. 
THEODORE T. TOOLE '44 was elected president of Asgrow Mandeville Co. The Cambridge, N.Y., company will now be headed by a man with more than 20 years experience in thefield of general management and con­sumer mariceting. 
FRANK T. CAVANAUGH '49 has been appointed assistant director of Perth Amboy General Hospital, N.J. Most recently, Cavanaugh wasfiscal director for Knickerbocker Hospital, New York. 
GEORGE TERLEP '49 has been named president and chief operating oflicer of the Elkhart, Ind., Herrli Industries, Inc., manufacturers of mobile homes. The former Irish quarterback lives with his wife. Alma, and their five children in Elkhart 
will continue to do in the future. 

One of your ofiSceis for over 10 years deserves a special accolade—your treas­urer, ED SMITH. Ed is one of those "Cal Coolidge" types who doesn't say much but does he get the job done! He never misses a meeting, always has his books right up to date, and can quote our financial condition any hour of the day or night (I know because he got me out of bed last night to check on a few contributors.) I am sure I don't have to mention the names, or "blow" about the other members of the group. Those of you who have been "regulars" at the reunions know who they are, and how they knock themselves out for months before, and during the reunion weekend. We all had an extra drink as a toast for these guys on the 50-yard line. I just received the sad news that another classmate, MORTON DOUTHAT, passed away in Oct, 1969. No details were received. He lived at 825 W. 3rd, Joplin, Mo. If I recall correctly he attended our reunions regularly. Mort's death brought the number of deceased classmates during my tenure to 12. Let's remember him in our thoughts and prayers during reunion weekend. 
As a finale my sincere thanks to those of you who have helped to keep this column alive the past three years plus, even though you were uncanny about getting your notes to me just about 24 hours before each deadline! 
William F. Ryan 
1620 E. Washington 
South Bend, Ind. 46617 

'38 NICK'S AWARD NICK LAMBERTO, Des Moines Register's paramount pen pusher, won a national award from the American Legion for an article on their 50th anniversary before a packed hall that didn't include "a draft card burner in the whole audi­ence," sez Nick. JOHN R. TOBIN Jr. also has gained honor thru his profession, being appointed chmn. of the dept of medicine at Loyola U. Stritch School of Medicine. John was former chief of staff of Cook County Hospital. Banker BILL RILEY, sometime class treasurer, sent a card from Hong Kong on his way to Expo 70 in Japan. From Honolulu they took a boat but will fly back (which I am sure will only be temporarily, the way he's been traveling) to East Chicago. 
Ex So. Bend Mayor JACK SCOTT, now running a newspaper chain out of Purdue's back yard in Lafayette, emceed a legislative State-Federal meeting we had in Indianapolis and chaired a testimonial honoring the new pres. of the American Newspaper Publisher Assn. DICK BLACKLIEGE of Kokomo, first Hoosier so honored. He topped it off by promoting me (we boot-camped at Quantico together with Jack retiring as a Marine General) from SAC (Scott's Ancient Chums) to TA (Travelers Anonymous) and sent me a special VIP matrix (nothing to do with maternity), tho we both have had some contact with the subject) tie bar. 
As Rev. JOE RACE said when I asked him to say a Mass for EDWARD J. "JAFSIE" CONDON, "the angel of death seems to be hovering about us." AL KOZELOVE, Jafsie's roommate in Sorin wrote that he died March 5 after a short illness. Ja&ie was a freight broker and lived in Bay Shore, N.Y. Father Joe celebrates his 25th aiuiversaty of ordina­tion June 7. Write him at St Stephen's, 5880 So. HoweU, Mflwaukee 53207. Dr. DONALD F. LeMIRE died Feb. 27 in Escanaba, Mich., after a series of bouts with heart trouble. Don bad a great general practice and led community health programs for many years. Don graduated from I^yola Stritdi School of Medicine in Chicago, served under Gen. George Patton in WWII, and after surgi^ residency in Akron, Ohio Geit Hosp. returned to Escanaba, maintaining an office with his brother. He is survived by his wife, Rosemary, two daughters attending Mt Mary College, Milwaukee, and one son in high schooL Father Joe Race has said a Mass for him. 
CELLY BALL and wife Lynette have received Silver Star, Bronze Star and two Purple Heart medals awarded to their son David who was killed in Vietnam last August and learned for the first time of his courage. Dave rescued two wounded comrades, and even though wounded himself, went forward to protect his comrades "and undoubtedly saved their lives," before he was mortally hit according to the citation. Celly and Lynette tndy raised a great man. 
Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Ave.­South Bend, Ind. 46625 

'40 FORTY FOLLIES You may be able to make our 30—40—^70 reunion as you start reading this, but move quickly and complete it en route as the time is here. Do you realize that there were over 170 Men of '40 at our reunion five years ago? Hope you were one of them here this year. 
Two more of the Men of '40 have been called from our midst but certainly will be with us in our hearts and prayers. Received notification of the deaths of JOHN "BUD" KOTTE and WILLIAM J. MORRISSEY just recently. We do apologize to Bill Monissey's family for the delay in expressing his classmates' sym­pathy and condolences, but this is the first we knew of it He died in Aug., 1969. Was notified of Bud Kotte's death through our SMC chamids just after the deadline for the last issue. All of us want Bud's wife and children, his mother and sister. Marge Kotte O'Hara, to know that we will be remembering him and his family in our prayers. Bud attended that last reunion and I was looking forward to seeing him again, but apparently this was the way it was ordained. 
We want to express our sympathy to JOHN FINNERAN and also BILL and GEORGE ('36) CANNON on the deaths of their mothers. I want to remind all of you again that our class memorial Mass was an integral part of reunion activities, so one can assume that we are all together again. At the moment of prepar­ing this brilliant report the registrants are: STAN ADAMONIS, JOE CUM­MINGS, TOM FLAD, JIM DANER, DAN HUSHEK, TOM MCCARTHY and GERRY SAEGERT. We expect many more every day, so this short list is not indicative of the vast mnnbers who will be there. I must exiAain that the mailing you received after the last ALUMNUS should have gone out preceding it. so please accept my apologies for any confusion or misunderstanding which lesulted. 
JIM METZLER contacted JIM DELA­HANTY requesting that he and LOU 
REILLY be scheduled to bunk together. 
Your local committee made every 
effort to accommodate any and all reason­
able requests of this nature. The committee 
had already announced prizes of 15 pieces of jewelry and 10 "objets d' art" as awards for early registration, but in view 
of the mixup in registration we mi^t change the area of recognition. However, these and other awards were a part of the activities. One of the students hurried into my office to state that he knew 
Mr. Doud would be at the reunion. My 
reply was, "HANK DOWD has never missed one to my knowledge." As I look over the list of attendees of five years ago I recall all the happy conversations. JACK HENEBRY asked for information about JOHN "CHICK" CICCOLELLA. Does anyone have any news? 
This news is relatively brief, but the reunion started a new cycle of current information. It was great seeing all of you June 12, 13 and 14 and more news will follow. 
Robert G. Sanford 302 Rue Rabelais, Apt 620 South Bend, Ind. 4661S 
'42 GOOD SALESMANSHIP THOMAS J. WALKER and THEODORE 
T. GORE first woriced together at ND during their student days, and now are teaming up to head the 1970 United Fund Drive of Ft Lauderdale, Fla. Sincere Congrats to LEONARD J. MASTERSON on receiving the President's Club Award from the US Gypsum Co. in recognition of his outstanding sales performance. Len resides in Oak Park, 111., with his wife, Joan, where he is active in the K of C and the ND Qub of Chicago. Good salesmanship is the key word this writing. ROBERT W. HARGRAVE of Evansvflle, Ind., and his partner, John F. Gaiter '41 also of Evansville went way over the top on their SUMMA quota. Dr. LEO TURGEON and his co-worker, Eugene C. Calhoun '33, did the same out in LA. Congrats to all of these men for their great efforts in this undertaking. 
Word from Phoenix has it that Rabbi ALBERT PLOTKIN is encouraged by the Vatican's new stance toward Judaism. He looks forward to participating in the Arizotia Ecumenical Conference. It was really great hearing from STEVE ENSNER after all these years. We quote in part Steve's letter: "I still receive and glance through the ND ALUMNUS— even though I haven't been back to So. Bend since 1942! My copy of the Oct.-Nov. issue came yesterday (mis­addressed). I was intensely excited by the writeup of the Oct 15 Moratorium. My God, how ND has changed, I think 100% for the better. After all, it was a damn dull campus in 1942 (except for the war). Anyway my congratidations to the new men at ND! I haven't acknowle4ged my presence to ND for 25 years, so here goes. Have been overseas for 10 years—four in Pakistan with Upton & Kalmbach, Denver Consulting Engineers, and am now with Development & Resources (David E. Lilienthal's Company) on an irrigation/agrictilture project here in Iran. Tile job is chief accountant-project administrator. The only classmate I have seen is JIM McELROY of WDmette; we still exchange Christinas cards. Hope to see Jim while on home leave this summer. 

"1 have four children, all in school in Switzerland. I was in Prof. Chism's (?) accounting class, and finally passed Colorado CPA exam in 1960. (Denver is considered home.) If any of the class of '42 wants to write. 111 answer them, and love to all." Steve's address is: Development & Resources, Post Office Box 13, Andimeshlc, Iran. Thanks for taking the time to fill us in Steve; it sounds very exciting. TOM WALKER of Florida reports among his "snowbird" visitors from our class during the winter were JACK GARVEY of New York and TOM NASH of Chicago. 
William M. Hickey 
5500 West 73rd St. 
Chicago, 111. 60638 
'43 WELCOME WORDS 
A welcome letter came from Rev. JEROME HEALY OSB who was doing grad. work in pol. sci. and thus became a member of the class of '43. He is now heading the dept of pub. rel. and develop, at the Abbey School, a college-prep high school in Canon City, Col. 81212. Fr. Jerome served as chaplain in the 79th division in Europe during W.W. II and returned to the Abbey School as teacher in pol. sci., histoiy, and coached basketSall for 18 years. President JACK BARRY writes that the December Knute Rockne awards dinner sponsored by the ND Club of Chicago was a great success with the following '43ers present: BILL SULLIVAN, BILL McCAUGHEY, JOE KEENAN, FRED GORE, BOB KUIPERS, RAY SCHOONHOVEN, ED MURRAY, JACK GRIFHN, FRED SPECHT, TONY GIROLAMI and JIM McELROY. 
The Alumni Office reports that ROBERT 
O. BAKER is pres. of Baker Canning Co. Having purchased Shawano Canning Co. and subsequently merging, Baker is now responsible for three canning factories in Wis., now under the name of Interstate Brands Corp., Kansas City, Mo. A note from GEORGE BLACKMORE states that he works for the Penn. Insurance Dept. in Harrisburg, Pa. The Blackmores have four children, aged 6 through 21, and reside at 1804 Beckley St, New Cumber­land, Pa. 17070. George has not been back to ND since '49 but is looking forward to a football game this year. 
JULIAN MICHEL, 26 Broad St., Charleston, S.C. 29401, is pres. of the ND Club of S.C. and is a member of the Alumni Senate. The eldest Michel son, Stephen, is a frosh at ND. 
Our sympathy goes to CARL R. HEISER upon the passing of his wife in 1%9 and the auto-accident death of their daughter the previous year. Cail resides at 115 S. Main St, Hanmbal, Mo. 63401. The Alunmi Office forwarded a letter from FRANK KING stating that he had just remarried after being a widower since 1963 and now fathers a "yours and mine" family of six children. Frank recently cdebrated 20 years as an Allstate agent JIM DOWNEY, Judge of the Circuit Ct of the Fifteenth Judicial Dist, West Palm Beach, Fla., writes inquiring how a son of JACK FINNEGAN could ever graduate from ND and suggests that the son must take after his mother. 
A business trip took your secretary to Lincoln, Neb., and the Nebraska Raflway Commission Hdq., and whom should I find as chief legal counsel for the commission but Jack Finnegan! Needless to say, I spent three very fine evenings enjoying the Hnnegan hospitality with him, his wife Marilyn, and seven children, aged 4 through 24. Son Joe, ND '69 has just joined the FBI. Jack is the Republican candidate as a member of the Nebraska Railway Commission. A message from BILL MIDDENDORF reports that SAM McQUAID has moved to NYC. We appreciated Mrs. DICK HALL's writing to tell us the sad news of Dick's death Jan. 9. He suffered a stroke New Year's Day as he was watching the Cotton Bowl game. Their business was food manufacturing, making condiments and sauces, under the name Boetje Foods, Inc. Her address is 77 Forest Rd, Davenport, la. 52803. Their elder son is film manager for WPGH-TV Pittsburt^; their younger son is a student at Missouri Military Academy; their dau^ter has been at Stephens College. Mrs. Hall also wrote that BILL LOWER's father died April 10 in Indianapolis and funeral services were in South Bend. 
Frank W. Kaiser 
307 Cherry St 
Chatsworth, 111. 60921 
'44 DREAM ON 
What a relief it is to have the rigors of winter and the chores of spring behind one. Now it is possible to sit back and enjoy the pleasantries of sununer—the quiet and peacefulness of a warm evefung whether it be on the shores of a moonlit lake or upon a sailboat gliding serenely through the swells or in one's own back yard away from the cares and worries of the day. It is great to dream. May yours come true! 
JAMES T. CLAUSS, Hamburg, N.Y., pres. of Oauss and Co., Inc., and ETC Consol. Insurance Agencies, has been appointed to the bd. of trustees of Villa Maria CoUege. ANSELM S. BURKART has been elected senior VP of the First Bank & Trust of So. Bend. EDWARD HANON, formerly Bro. John, is a teacher of music in the Pacific Grove Unified School Dist. and lives in Monterey, Calif. WILLIAM T. SNYDER has been named VP of production for Nalco Chemical Co. headquartered in Chicago. FREDERICK A. EICHORN Jr. has been elected to the bd. of dirs. of the ND Club of DaUas. JAMES B. TREACY has been promoted to exec. VP of Bendix Intemat and VP of the parent Corp. Jim, who resides in Ridgewood, NJ, has responsibility for Bendix affiliated compam'es in the U.K., Germany and Australia. RAYMOND J. RUETZ was elected VP and treasurer of Navan, Inc., a subsidiary of North American Rockwell Corp. Ray, a native of Racine, Wis., lives with his wife and five children in Manhattan Beach, Calif. 
Recently a letter was received from Joliet, lU., lawyer DOMINIC BOETTO. He was extremely happy to report that his son, Joe, a top golfer in the area, has been accepted in the 1970 ND frosh class. Another son is at John Carroll U. and a daughter attends St Teresa College, Winona, Minn. Dom takes in all ND home games and last year also saw the Irish in the Army and Tulane games. The only '44er he met on any of the football jaunts was EARL ENGLERT after the USC game. FARRELL QUIN­LAN sent a current brochure and a note regarding the opening of his Indian Cave Lodge at Sonape^ NJI. Ike wMe family is Involved in the opetatioo of tte resort Fandl told cX the ap|ifoadio( mairiage in late June of hb dan^ter, Nofa, who graduates eaiiier in die oaonth Cram Regis CaOtte. A wdcome letter anived from GUIDO ALEXANDER, proprietor of The Desert Ion, CoImiriNa. O. He announced the birth eaiiier this year of hh eighth child. Congrats, Guido! He mentioned abo that the ND basketbaO team and many ct its foBowcis were liis guests at The Deseit Inn when aD were in Ceiaabas for the NCAA Tonmaniait It was a leuniofl beyond leunions. Aaoat those piesem was '44eT JIM CLARKE. Rockvaie, Md., iriu just happened to be in town. 
Class president FRANK \ICS€HJi re­potted infirom San Diego where he was on a special mission for the Navy. He has been sdected to become a lepatria­tion-debri^ng officer if and nhea die American praoneis of war in North Vietnam are itleased. He win be in active duty for at least a month whtn die orders, dependent upon the Paris peace talks, come. In all piobalrility be w3l be assigned to a forward Naval hospitaL With his acceptance of this a^tigmnmt, his anmud two-week reserve duty was changed and at the time of his writing; be was attending a special seminar covering every aspect of FOW life. In the past 15 years of reserve activity, Frank bad survival and POW tiaining and taught it to reserve pilots and crewmen. Now, be feds that be is giving the Navy a return on its investment in Um. 
Joseph A. Neufdd P.O. Box 853 Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
'46 BITS AND PIECES Rev. GLENN BOARMAN CSC. former dir. of devdop. at Portland U. has been aiqiointed dir. of campus ministiy at St Maiy's College. EDMUND V. MARSHALL, division VP in charge of the space and biomedical system depaitments of Hamilton Standard, Hartford, Conn., has been assigned the additional responsi­bility of directing the composite materials and industrial products organization. 
During the recent Easter htdidays I had the good fortune to get together with a number of relatives, all graduates of ND. Those in attendance were Joe Mocanld '57. Walter "Dick" Makuck '55 and Frank Smurlo '58. A good and enjoyable time was had by aO. Another nephew and ND gnd, James Rich, of Middle­town, N.Y., was unable to attend. 
Again, that's it! 
Peter P. Richiski 6 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Conn. 
'49 SPRING FEVER As 1 begin this cohnnn, spring fever has me in its grip. I'm looking out this den window at a huge tree in our front yard—a "Corkscrew Willow." Riflit now it's bursting with tiny new leaves, new shoots, more branches, a taller tree tban last year by perhaps a foot or two. I see a paraOd here. Between this new growth and the news I have been receiving lately regarding some of our '49en. 
They too have grown in stature, have advanced a lung or two on the corporate ladder, have blossomed into more mature, responsible execs. I submit these promo­tions just recently announced or forwarded to us by the Alumni office: JOSEPH 
P. HALLER Jr. has been promoted to VP of Stran-Steel Corp., a Houston-based manufacturer of pre-engineered sted buildings. HERBERT H. McDADE Jr. dir. of the laboratory procedures div. of the Upjohn Co., has been named publisher of "FamBy Health" magaane. Herb has been with Upjohn for 20 years. Dr. KENNETH C. KENNARD has been appointed staff assL to Dr. John Leer­makens, dir. of Kodak research labs. He joined Kodak in 1954 and in 1963-64 he studied at MIT and earned an MS in Ind. management. Ken lives with his wife and three children in Hilton, N.Y. 
R. STANLEY SEYMOUR was made co-dir. of Educational Services, effective Dec. 1, 1969. He had been asst. to the dean in the school of business for three years (we don't know what school), he lives in Pleasant Hills (we don't know what state). Would appreciate any help we can get on the missing data, lliese news releases just reached our desk after some devious travels. Consequently they don't qualify as "fresh" news, but they are significant. The Travders Insurance Co., Hartford, Conn., aimounced 



Congrats 
THOMAS SULLIVAN RICHARD B. HOH­'52, who received his doc­MAN '54 was named a torate in oiganic chem­vice-president of the Red istry from Northwestern Bam System, Inc., Fort U., was appointed vice-Lauderdale. He will president, research supervise the operation products of New England of approximately 300 Nuclear. He will be head­units, including over 40 quartered in Watertown, company-owned restau­Mass. 
rants. He will move with his family from Youngs-RICHARD R. DOUG­
town, Ohio, to Fort LAS '53 is the new vice-
Lauderdale. 

president and general manager of Honeywell's FRANK J. SURGE '55, Information Services recently a marketing Division. With the com­consultant with Ness, has pany tance 1960, he is been named vice-presi­based now in Minneapolis. 
dent of marketing for the Data Technology Corp., 

HAROLD R. MILLER in its components group, '53 has been elected vice-in Palo Alto, Calif. 
preddent, merchandising of the international di­vision of Avon Products. JAMES R. FITZSIM-Living now with his wife MONS '56 has been and two sons in Riverside, appointed international Conn., his office head­maiket manager for quarters will be in 
Micro Switch, Freeport, New YoA City. 
111. 

last fall that E. ROBERT DALTON MCLAUGHLIN, BILL BREEN, WALT bad been appointed asst. secretary in the MARUT, GEN E HARTLEY, and admin, underwriting div. of the group LEONARD DENTE . Wm I have any items dept. Bob has been irith Travelers from you? No need to be fancy. One since 1949 and has held successively more postcard tells a thousand people where responsible positions in the Hartford you are, fellows you meet, when you and Buffalo areas. Bob and his wife, Anne, broke 80 or 90 or 100, etc. I need have nine children and live at 4S Outlook more mail, men! Ave. in West Hartford, Coim., or consider 
Leo L. Wesley this San Francisco news release of last 1st Driftwood Lane September. CHARLES R. CAIN has been Rochester, N.Y. 

named pres. of Koret of Calif., a maira­facturer of Women's Sportswear and a div. of Koracorp Ind., Inc. Charles joined '51 KEN« BACK Koret in 1950 as a sales trainee and KEN THORE N has recovered nicely from quickly advanced thru munerous sales a heart attack about a year ago, and is positions to become marketing dir. in 1963 back to skiing again. Being named a VP and in 1%S VP and a member of the of J. Walter Thompson at Christmas bd. of dirs. He resides in Menlo Park, probably assisted in the recovery. Perhaps Calif., with his wife and five diUdren. A a viat from JACK and Maryann YOUNG, March 23 memo from the U. of Pittsburgh as they passed nearby with their camper, informs us that one of our men is also helped. Ken may have put JIM undoubtedly due for an intetestiiig travel MCGUIRE and his entire family into show assigimient or two! I refer to the news business. Last fall Ken was on location that Dr. STEPHEN J. GALLA has been at Storm Lake, la., to film a Kodak appointed as the rep. from the U. of conunercial based on a boy Tetuming from i Pittsburgh School of Medicine to the XII Vietnam. Look for Jim and all the Int Congress of Cathtdic Medical Assns. McGuires in this conunerdal—^perhaps 
In our next edition I wiU report to you on the Academy Award program. JOE on letters and notes from sudi as FRANK RYAN is now with Arthur G. McKee,] SCHULTZ, WALT YOUNGER, J. Contractors. Joe lives in Arlington Heights, 111., with his wife, Patricia Ann (O'Connor) and their four children, Richard, Maura, John and Joe, Jr. 
Another lawyer in the gang is BOB HOENIG, now resident at 7414 Overhill in Chicago. Bob was with the State's Attorney of Cook County for 5'A years, and after that was Corp. Counsel for the City of Evanston. He is now in private practice in Evanston. Bob married Else Coavesen and they have three children. The older two are boys at ND of Niles High School, and the youngest is a girl. Ken's old roommate, BILL HOSCHEIDT, is mgr. of Watercott's Dept. Store in Henry, HI. Bill married Mary Ann Mouch and they have four boys and a giri. The family is well, and husband and wife are trying to arrange a schedule so both can attend their reunions in June of 1971. Here are some contributions from the Alumni Office: BOB DEVER has moved to 58 Hm St, Hingham, Mass. 02043. He is currently teaching in a sub-system school for the Boston public school system in which he deals with under­privileged children. He and his wife have seven children. DICK. GUILTINAN has been admitted to partnership with Arthur Andersen & Co. in their NYC office. BILL GREIF has been named Corp. VP in the new Washington, D.C. office of Mead Johnson & Co. He was formerly mgr. of public affairs for the company. 
CHUCK LENZ is now prod. mgr. for Dow Coming's Consumer Prod. Div. In addition to motivating the trade and general public to buy, he will also seek new business through prod. line extension, new prod, develop., and opening new markets. BILL McNALLY received a Ph.D. in chem. eng. during commencement exercises at URL It was the second honor for Bill, who also became the first member of the Naval underwater weapons research and eng. slalf to receive a Ph.D. under the Navy-sponsored WEPCOSE (Weapon Control Systems Eng.) Post-Grad. Training Program. His thesis topic, devoted to the subject of fluid drag reduction, was entitled "Heat and Momentum Transport in Dilute Polyethylene Oxide Solution." Maybe Bill can summarize this for us, after we have a few beers in June, 1971. W. J. LONGHl is a cmdr. (USN) and skippers the USS Norris, DD8S9. Just completed a seven-month tour (as of Nov. 17) with the Sixth Reel in the Medit. Wife, Anne, and three children—Billy (12), Catherine Mary (11), and Michael (9)— reside in Newport, Rl. Spent June '65 to Oct. '68 in London on statT of com­mander-in-chief USN forces, Europe. 
TOM O'BRIEN manages IBM's dist. 21, in New Orleans. He is responsible for the sales activities of nine data processing division branch offices in live stales. He and his wife have nine children. LOU CARNEY chaired a workshop in Albuquerque on "Narcotics in the Public Schools" for the Western Correctional Assn. He ran into ED SIKORA '50, who is consultant to the Ohio Crime Commis­sion. BOB McGRATH is marketing mgr. of Roche Clinical Labs, a div. of Holfmann-LaRoche Inc., Nutley, NJ. CLIFF COLLINS is on duty at Takhli Royal Thai AFB, Thailand. Previous to his arrival in Thailand he served at Lindsey AFB, Germany. He is an elec. warfare officer. His wife is the former Ann Tobin of Alava Court, Dallas, Tex. 
Cliff has done some missile research, and has imearthed definite—if odoriferous— proof that an Eskimo bad the first ICBM. 
Jim Jennings Borg-Wamer Corp. 200 S. Michigan Ave. Chicago, lU. 60604 
'52 SLIM PICKIN'S The mail bag is pretty slim for this batch of news. Apparently spring has turned all thoughts to love instead of letters. JOSEPH S. BOULING has a new address in Fern Creek, Ky., where he moved from Louisville. Joe and his wife Cherry have sandwiched in between two boys a grand total of six girls. All have been mailed as future wives for NDers provided they are clean shaven, wear shoes and no love beads, please. Joe and his gang are living at 5509 Cumnock Rd. CHARLES E. SCHAEFFER has let us in on the word that Chas. E. Schaelfer Jr. has finally come upon the scene as of June 10, 1969. That's all, folks. Also, a son was born to JAMES H. DON­NELLY in Chicago not too long ago. 
CHARLES L. NICHOLSON of Succasunna, NJ, has been named a winner in the Johnson & Johnson Co. Acci:nt on Achievement contest for outstanding sales leadership accomplishments during the past year. Chuck is married to the former Terese Metivier of Brunswick, Me. They are the parents of four daughters and two sons. ROBERT R. JAY has founded a new firm to manufacture hybrid microcircuits, Micru Networks Corp. Bob is serving as pres. of the new firm which has its headquarters in Worcester, Mass. 
ROBERT D. KNOCBEL has been appointed dir. of marketing for Pfizer Chemicals. Bob joined Pfizer in '52 as a chemical sales rep. and served as regional mgr. of the food & beverage dept's western and midwestern regions. Bob is moving to Westport, Conn. And finally from one of the Chicago gossip columns comes news of Judge LOUIS GARIPPO performing the first wedding ceremony ever, in the plush confines of Adolph's Restaurant. Lou probably cooked dinner for the newlyweds, too! 
William King 613 East Donmoyer South Bend, Ind. 
'53 MEA CULPA About all 1 can say is "mea culpa, mea culpa, mea maxima culpa." It is true since my last column I've gone through plastic surgery on my right hand, a broken right elbow and the Hong Kong flu—none at the same time, however. Anyway, here we go— 
Classmates on the move: Dr. LARRY TARPEY. formerly prof, of bus. adm. at Kentucky U.. has been appointed dean of the College of Bus. Admin, at Haile Selassie U.. Addis Ababa. Ethiopia, for a two-year period. JIM BRITT was elected VP of finance, L. M. Berry and Co., Dayton. O. JAMES GITRE, pres. of Flexible Controls Corp., Detroit, Mich., was elected to the Young Pres. Org. BILL BIRD was elected pres. of CT/Easi Inc.. a subsidiary of Computer Technology Inc. Bill will be located in White Plains, NY. Combustion Eng., Inc., Windsor, Conn, promoted JOHN R. O'LAUGHLIN to VP maintenance sales. 
TOM KRUG has been appointed assL secietaiy in the policyfaoldeT and fidd senrices dept at Conn. Gen. Life Insurance Co. I'm sate mote of you have moved up the ladder—how about dropping me a line? And 1 just found one—BOB HAINE was appointed VP of corp. rd»­lions by Zapata Nomess Inc.. Houston, Tex. 
JOHN FORTINO (6501 Downs Branch Rd.. Louisvaie. Ky. 40228) wrote: "^w DON GENTILE before he left for NY. He bad been on the suff at the Louisville 
U. Medical SchooL Just com|4eted my lOlh year with Zenith Radio—covering the South Central states as regional mgr." A yellow card from J. CLARKEN (23 Fairmount Rd., W. Caldwell. NJ): "Please change my address on alumni records. I am widi Prudential Ins. Co. and was recently transferred from Boston to the Corp. office in Newark. NJ. Pro­moted to senior claim considtant." Thanks. "J." Perhaps you can talk aiwtfaer classmate in Caldwell to write, that being PAT TIMMONS. 
Received a nice long yellow card from MIKE TURCO (7244 Madora Av, Canoga Park. Calif. 91306): --RecenUy promoted to nat. sales mgr. for Uni-Tech Chem. Mfg. Co.. a new division of Brbtol-Myers Co. Formeriy sec-treas. of ND au b of San Fernando Valley, now meniber of LA aub. Saw GENE RIIZ­ENTHALER last year in Phoenix, and Ed Sama. 'S4. in VaUejo. I see REGIS PHILBIN occasionally and two years ago we pulled a phone gag on PAT ROSS in Escondido. Would like to hear from any former classmate. (Me. loo. Mike!) Wife: Mary; chOdren: Lisa. 10. John. 8." Here's some news received via Alumni Fund givers: E. J. WESSEL Jr. MD (I Manor Dr.. Newton. NJ): "Now in practice of surgery in t4ewton. New arrival: John Patrick. Now have four. Recently made Fellow of the American College of Surgeons." And here's one from long lost DICK WOLFGRAM (855 Herman. Evanston. III.): "Married Valerie A. Zatopa of Chicago in Oak Park, lU.. on Nov. 22. 1969." One of the last ones to fall, hey—many times did I stay al Dick's home in Skokie wlule weekemiing from ND on the cheap! BOB DOWNER's wife wrote: "Bob joined Sta-Rite Ind. in Dec.. 1968. We live in Rockford, 
III. (4322 Brendonwood Rd.) and he commutes to Delavan, Wis., every day. We have seven children 14 yrs. to 3 yrs. He travels quite a bit to the other sutes." BOB BICKERT (3522 Chippe­cotton. Racine, Wis.) wrote: "Mgr. of retail systems at the Racine branch of National Cash Register." TOM KELLEY's mother also wrote: "Tom is now pres. of Foundry Eng., Inc.. a metallurgical consulting firm. Tom is married, has four children, is an avid golfer, is pres. and chairman of the board of Shenandoah Golf A Country Oub in West Bloomfield. Mich." 
More next time— 
Walter F. Stuhldieher 11006 Jean Rd.. SE HuntsvUle, Ala. 35803 
'54 ANOTHER TRY Sorry about that! My last article missed the deadline and was relumed. Of course, thai makes meeting this issue duck soup. There was a day when class news was important but times change and we've got more important things to report on—like dissent, moratoriums, liberaliza­tion, sit-ins, teach-ins, radicals on campus, pornography symposiums and drugs, etc. Nevre like ED SEIM was promoted to the position of Admin. VP of Crestline is hardly newsworthy, except of course to Ed, Sheila, you, and me. Congrats, Ed, well done. I'm also sorry that the Cardinals will be playing the seventh game of the world series on Oct 17 and the ND-Missouri game had to be moved to Columbia. You'd think with all that optimism they would expect to win the series in four and wouldn't need the stadium that day. Being a Monsanto man, I'd love to have seen ND beat the Tigers on the beautiful astroturf of Busch Stadium. However, this allows me to cop out on my proposed reunion party after the game at my place. Like I said, sorry about that! 
Speaking of baseball, BILL GUILFOILE bright young baseball exec, has left the NY Yankees and joined the Pittsburgh Pirates as dir. of public relations. Heard from DICK EHR just before he left for the Cotton Bowl. Also got a card from him from Acapuico where he and family were enjoying a holiday. Had a great letter from BOB RAYMOND who had just moved from England to Waterloo, Belgium. Shortly after their move, Joyce had twin boys, making five boys in all for the Raymonds. Also heard from Ethel, wife of Lt. Col. TOM SCHWIETZ. Ethel and Tom also have five litUe ones. They'll be moving soon from Omaha to Washington, DC, where Tom will attend the National War College (unless someone burns it down). MIKE MAHONEY sends his best regards from his new address, 3465 Rolling Hills Dr., Pepper Pike. Mike was just appointed VP and gen. man. of Nu Mac Corp. in Cleveland. Mike and his bride, Marta, have seven litUe Mahoneys. Good ole TONY (Dr. Tony) GARRUTO finally wrote a letter. Tony had recently gotten together with JOE LEONETTI and DICK GOBBIE. Joe is a vice principal at a Oeveland area high school and Dick is a dentist. Tony ran into R(XJER VALDISSERI after the Pitt game. Rog is pub. dir. for ND's Athletic Dept. JIM FREMGEN was promoted to the rank of prof, at the Naval post-graduate school. BILL BORNHOFEN is self-employed and has Dellwood Tire Co. stores in Joliet and in Lockport, III. Bill and his wife Pat have a boy and a girl. FRANK WISNESKI should be back from Vietnam now, heading for the Pentagon. JOHN LIBERT is nat. sales mgr. of the retail sales division of Dow Jones Inc. DON ROSS was named dir. of develop, at Marquette U. Lt. Col. 
J. J. MUHLHERR is in Vietnam with the Army. DAVE DELKER is mgr. of organizational develop, and equal opportunity affairs for Litton Industries in Beverly Hills, Calif. JOHN GRINDEL is project eng. supervisor for Rohm and Hass Co.'s Engineering Division in Bristol, Pa. The Grindels have four children. 
JOHN FINNERTY has been named trust officer at Continental 111. Nat. Bank and Trust Co., Chicago. MATT MORAN made the Chicago papers as playing mgr. (2nd base—must still have the legs) for his law firm when his team broke the 69-game winning streak of the state's attorneys team. 
I guess I'd better wrap this up with a 
renunder that our reunioti puty will be held immediately after the first home football game of the season. See you there —till then hang by your thiunbs. 
Milton J. Beaudine 

21 Signal HiU Blvd. 
E. SL LOUU, IU. 62203 

'55 HOPE YOU MADE IT By the time you read this column, you will either a) be returning from So. Bend and the best reunion of all time; b) be sleeping it off; or c) wondering why the beck you didn't get together with a few guys and make the scene. 
One guy who survived the Cotton Bowl is JOHN ROGERS, who has joined the Wynnewood State Bank of DiUas as senior VP in charge of corp. planning. John lives at 4746 Twinpost Rd., Dallas, with his wife, Teresa, and his two children, Sharon Marie, 7, and Michael Kevin, S. Talked to GEORGE SUNKEL the other day on several matters. Georee, who lives at 500 Hawthorne Lane, Winnetka, lU., specializes in real estate for Chicago's First Nat. Bank. Picked up a few news itetns at a recent Chicago '55 meeting. JOE KEARNEY just wdcomed his third child, a bouncing inby boy. DICK BURKE is the proud father of an adopted daughter, Sarah Ryan Burke. 
JOHN HESTER, formeriy of A. G. Becker & Co., has joined Schwab Paper Prod. Co. as VP and treasurer. CAR­ROLL DOWDEN checked in from HUlsdale, NJ. (27 Dou^as Dr.), where he is exec. ed. of Medical Economics, the largest non-consumer magazine in the country. MIKE WARD'S aimiversary book for Chicago's Loyola U. is in the running for several lutional honors. 
And now a report from Michigan. ED BORUS recendy joined the COMAC Co., a management consulting firm located in Birmingham. He also was elected a director of the Industrial State Bank in Kalamazoo and bought a new home at 4275 Orchard Hill Dr., Bloomfield Hills. ED PETRUSKA (705 Briarwood Lane, Fenton, Mich.) has been appointed assistant principal of the Fenton Middle School. PAUL FIGEL (9117 Hazelton, Detroit), who has four giris and a boy, is a regional sales manager for Ford. 
Both TED LAUGHLIN and his wife arc doctors. He's also medical director of the county's Head Start program. Between house calls, he and his wife numage to take care of their own brood of five in Fort Walton, Fla. JIM DUFFY also is down Florida way (1916 Winnebago Trail, Fern Park). He wants to thank MIKE HAGGERTY for his Detroit hospitality. Jim is now district sales manager for Volkswagen with headquarters in Oilando. Another sun-lover is LOU AMESTOY (845 Canterbury Rd., San Marino, Calif.), who is a vice-president with Kidder, Peabody and Co. in Los Angeles. He has two litUe giris. 
On the lUinois scene, JERRY GROARK (4341 Bobolink, Skokie) is a partner in a Chicago law firm. He has three boys and one girt. CHARLIE LUCKETT (1004 N. Market, Marion, IU.) is the "owner and chief engineer" of Superior Structures Co. He also has three boys and a giri. RCXTCO TANNONE (1919 N. Lewis Ave., Waukegan, 111.) has been promoted to the rank of commander in the Navy. He's in the supply corps at Great Lakes. PAUL MATZ (1411 Lawrence, Flossmoor, 111.) is with Gallagher Asphalt Co. in 
Thornton. 111. 
DICK O'DONNELL (100 Tennyson Dr., Short Hills, NJ.) is a TV account executive with Blair Televiaon in New York. CHARLIE KLEE (5501 Bradley Blvd., Alexandria, Va.) is a lieutenant commander in the Navy and serving with the Department of Defense Public Affairs in the Pentagon. He picked up a master's in public relations from Boston U. MIKE MOYER (2008 Sunny Brook Dr., Austin, Tex.) is an IBM manager. He received his M.B.A. from Kentucky U., and has four boys. FRANK ORLANDO (2275 Winter Parkway, Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio) received his M.B.A. from Akron U. and has transferred to the marketing and planning department of Babcock and Wilcox Co. in Batberton, Ohio. 
BOB MUTH now is with Gen. Elec. at SII N. Broad St., PhUadelphia. BUD LA LONDE is on the move again, this time from MSU to Ohio St. (2355 Onandaga Dr., Columbus). Always like to be with a winner, don't you. Bud? Two recent transfers to the Windy City are TONY LAPASSO (221 Murphy Lake Lane, Park Ridge) and ROD CYRIER (16 E. WOlow Rd., Wheeling). Our worid traveler, DICK REAMER, can be reached at Altgasse 25-5, Vienna. 
And as a closer, remember you have been out 15 years . . . not ten or five. If you don't believe it, look in the mirror. 
Paul Fullmer 
1922 Larkdale Dr. Glenview, III. 60025 
'55L DON & DICK 
DON BUSECK returned to Erie, Pa., after graduation where he became a partner in the firm of Quinn, Plate, Gent, Buseck and Leemhuis, engaging in general practice. Don is the father of four boys, including twins in the sixth grade. 
DICK MILLER recently became a principal shareholder and dir. in the new Cleveland NBA basketball team. In Jan., he engineered the sale of Cleveland Broadcasting Co. stock for $9 million. This sale included radio stations in LA and Cleveland. Also, Dick engineered the %VA million sale of the Searies Lake Chemical Co., to Occidental Petroleum in February of this year. 
John P. Coyne 810 National City Bank Building Qeveland, Ohio 44114 
'56 PLEASANT DUTY 
One of the more pleasant aspects of being your class secretary is that from time to time I receive personal notes from some of you filling me in on your activities. 
Dr. ROBERT E. GUILDE dropped me a line from Amarillo, Tex., where he is currently in private practice specializing in cardiovascular disease. Bob is Chief of Cardiopidmonary Disease at St. Anthony's Hosp. in Amarillo. He and his wife, Doris, now have three daughters and a son. Dr. JAMES N. EUSTER­MAN was recently named university physician at Pacific U., Forest Grove, Ore. Jim is supervisor of the campus health service and recently returned from a stint in the US Army. He maintains a private practice in Hillsboro, Ore. GEORGE J. KRASEVAC, has been appointed plant mgr. of Diamond Bros., Reading, Pa. 
George and his wife Esther now have 
two children. 
USAF Maj. FREDERIC A. DEVOE Jr. is on duty at Udom Royal Thai AFB, Thailand. He is a navigator with the 7th Airborne Command and Control Squadron, a unit of the Pacific USAF. Fred holds the aeronautical rating of senior navigator and has served in Lebanon and Taiwan. JOHN G. O'ROURKE, who received his JD degree from Hastings College of Law in June, 1964, is presently DA of Kings County, Calif. John was at ND during Christmas week, 1969. ROBERT S. MULDOON is presenUy budget mgr. for Sherwood Medical Ind., Inc., Argyle, NY. THOMAS C. KEL­LEGHAN resides at 127 York, West Chicago, practices law and is presently a member of the DuPage County public defender's staff. DONALD H. BRENNAN is with the US Senate Space Committee. Don and his wife now have five children. 
Cdr. ROBERT K. MILLER, CEC, USN, was awarded the Bronze Star with combat " V on Nov. 21, 1969. Tlie award praised Bob "for meritorious service while serving with friendly foreign forces engaged in armed combat against the North Vietnamese." He served as commanding officer of MCB-S3. CHARLES 
H. ROACH Jr. received his MA from West. Mich. U. in December. GERALD L. SPAETH has been appointed pres. and chief exec, officer of Bulk Terminals Co. with facilities at Lake Calumet. Dr. JOHN A. NUTANT has been named mgr. of heat utilization projects in Westing­house Elec. Corp.'s recently created en­vironmental systems dept. John is pres­ently living in Silver Spring, Md. JAMES 
L. SHUMAKER MD is opening an office for the practice of pediatrics in Paducah, Ky. US Air Force Capt. PAUL T. DENK has been assigned to Mountain Home AFB, Id. Paul is with the Tactical Air Command. 
Eugene P. O'Connor 668 Ellicott Square Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 
'57 TOO BAD BOB Your class secretary is most pleased and yet somewhat saddened to announce that another of the small brave band of bachelors from our class has turned in his Playboy Club Key in exchange for a wedding band. Yes, BOB COYNE ties the knot on June 6. Congrats to the following: JOHN FEELEY has been ap­pointed VP of Scudder. Stevens & Clark, Inc. of Chicago. JAMES A. FINK is dist. accountant for Republic Steel in Buffalo. BOB O'NEIL is now chief eng. of design for the Washington, DC subway project. DON BARR is the first product mgr. for Time, Inc. PETE NOZNESKY is mgr. of domestic sales for the automotive division of General Battery & Ceramic Corp. PAUL WALKER is VP at the Chase Manhattan Bank, NY. Paul and wife reside with their two children in Sowers, NY. 
JOHN HECKMER is cigr. of the nuclear components mech. design eng. section of the Babcock & Wilcox Co.'s naval nuclear dept. at Barberton, O. He and wife, Marlene, have six children and live in Canal Fulton, O. TOM FENTON is now asst. super, of sundries mfg. div. of Eastman Kodak Co. Tom and wife Carol have a son and live in Irondequoit, NY. BILL HAWKESWORTH has been named mgr. of community relations with Hercules Corp. Bill and wife Martha have five children and reside in Eastbum Acres, Wilmington, Del. DICK BROWN is national field sales mgr. for commercial products for Scotsman. Dick and wife, Pat, have four Brownies and live in Albert Lea, Minn. 
LOUIS ROUSSALIS is pres. of the Wyo. Med. Examiners, per appointment by the Governor. JIM WATERS is field sales mgr. for Vision's Pio. Brush out of Cleveland, O., where he resides with wife, Norrine and two sons. TOM WELCH is treas. of H. P. Welch Trucking Co. out of Boston, where he is also treasurer of the ND Club. Tom and wife Ann have a daughter. FRANK PERRETTA is ed. of the Oneonta, NY., Star and is listed in Who's Who in the East and is in the J970 Dictionary of Intemat. Biography. 
His wife, Nancy, was included in the 1969 Outstanding Young Women of America. JOHN BURE is operating the branch office of the Chicago law firm of Bradley, Eaton, Jackman and McGovem in Deerfield, III. MANNY RIVAS was in Chicago this winter taking his boards in urology and we are hopeful he now has the good word. Manny had an unan­nounced house guest for the Super Bowl in the guise of EDDIE DEAN, who couldn't miss the big game. 
HANK LUEPKE was in Chicago in early spring practicing a little law and we had a nice visit. Hank hopes we all contact his St. Louis contingent before the Missouri game to get a good party going. Manny Rivas advises that a good crowd from the South plans to come up for the LSU game Nov. 21 and so let's tentatively plan our class reunion in their honor for that weekend. Our condolences to PETER RAFFETTO on the death of his mother, Mrs. E. M. Raffetto. 
George W. Groble 
111 W. Washington St. Chicago, 111. 60602 
'58 PLENTY BIG NEWS Congrats to JOHN WILLIAM BIRK, who was ordained to the priesthood on May 16, 
1970, by the Most Reverend Thomas J. McDonough, D.D., Archbishop of Louisville. Fr. John offered his Mass of Thanksgiving on Pentecost Sunday at the Church of St. Stephen, Martyr in Louis­ville. ALFRED J. WEINSHEIMER opened a new office of the Lacy Sales Inst, in Chicago. He will train salesmen and serve as a distributor for various Lacy training materials. Brast & Brust, Inc., announced the election of officers for the new year. GARY ZIMMERMAN has been named VP. USAF Maj. PAUL D. LYNCH is attending the Armed Forces Staff College at Norfolk, Va. 
Ma;. JEROME G. COOPER has been named Commander of the 13th Force Reconnaissance Co. USMCR of Mobile, Ala. He is the first Negro to command an organized Marine Corps Reserve unit. 
J. PATRICK DUGAN has been appointed treasurer-controller of the Export-Import Bank of the US. Pat joined the bank's audit staff in 1961 following two years of duty with the USAF, including activation for the Berlin crisis in 1961. EDWARD J. MEELL has assumed full responsibility for product development in social studies, vocational education, home economics and the humanities in his new position as edilor-iiKliief of the text-film division of the McGraw-HOI Book Co. Ed Rsdes in Somenel. NJ. 
DONALD P. SHANLEY has been elected to the new position of VP for mgt services for Valmont Industries, Inc. of Valley, Neb. He had been serrais as treasurer of the firm, but the expansion of computer services to provide manasement with a complele uiafied information system prompted the creation of the new position. ROBERT M. MISSEL has been appointed personnd leseardi, training and services mfr.. Ford Motor Credit Co. Bob will be responsible for condnctint research into petsomiel bdnvior, devdoping education and training programs and coordinating administrative services for the company. Bob and wife, Jane, have four chadren and reside at 740 N. Md­bom. Dearborn. Mich. 48121. EDMUND 
B. HOURIGAN Jr. has been appointed NY sales mgr. for accoustical products for the ind. and com. construction division of Owens<;oniing Fiber^ass Corp. Ed was formeriy Saks Branch Mgr. with the company and has been with Owens-Coming for six years. 
THOMAS F. LONDRIGAN is practicing law in Rochester, lU. He is iepi adviser to the department of children and family services and a board member of the Sangamon County Boys' Farm. BLASDEL A. REARDON is systems mgr., Armco Steel Corp. and is responsible for the headquartcfs comfuter system and management systems section. C. ELRIE CHRITE is dir. of the Afro-American and Race Relations Center on the U. of Wisconsin Madison campus. He has been a considtant to the Mich, governor's office on community action programs, executive director of the InL Afro-American Museum in Detroit, temporary supervisor of Washtenaw County Juvenile Ct., a complaint department worker in Cook County Family Ct., Chicago, and a Wayne State U. lecturer and bibUograpber on materials dealing with radal attitudes. JAMES G. KENNEDY Jr. is mgr. of the Toledo sales branch of Burroughs Corp. business forms and supplies group; a member of the Legion of Honor, the company's highest sales achievement group, and responsible for recruiting, training and superviang all sales personnel in the braiKh. 
GEORGE OSER was a candidate for the Houston, Tex. school board in the Nov. IS election. He and ins wife, Marie, have three children, Margaret. Christine, and Ruthann. He is employed by an oO company. Dr. JOSEPH D. FERRONE Jr. B living in New Haven, Conn., and is completing his final year of residency in orthopedic surgery. He has two children, Joseph III and Jennifer, with a third on the way. F. PAUL D'AMORE. admin, asst to Marquette U.'s executive VP. was appointed assL VP for business and finance in Aug. THOMAS F. BURZYN­SKI is asst prindpal. Marian Hi ^ School in Misbawaka. Ind. LEONARD BARBARISI M.D.. finishes a two-year Navy tour at the Naval Hospital at Camp Leieune, N.C. in June. He plans to go into the practice of general surgery upon return to civilian life. DAN McINERNEY reports that JOHN W. McFADDEN Jr. received an MBA from the U. of Chicago; BRUCE MALEC has opened a third Legion Magnavox Home Ent Center in Joliet IB.; «nd FRANK BRIODY and his wife Ann are expecting their third child. Frank is Comptroller 
with the Wurlitzer Co. 
Arthur L. Roule Jr. 1607 W. Fifth SL LaPorte, Ind. 46350 
'59 JOE AGAIN 

JOHN P. McFADDEN Jr. has been appointed eastern reg. sales mgr. of the Trans. Div. of Gen. American Transport. Corp. John joined GATX in 1962 and has served in the Cleveland and NYC sales offices. BEN BELLAS, after employment with Republic Steel and Rotek, Inc., joined Sam Stein Assoc, Inc., and was recently named dir. of marketing. Ben did post-grad work at Case Tech and Kent State. JIM REULAND is now ass't. personnel mgr. at the Western Elec. manufacturing division staff office in Chicago. Jim left the Army in 1964 and started with Western Elec. the same year. When he isn't recruiting college graduates, Jim can be found at 844 Kensington PI., Aurora, with his wife Ellen Ann and James Jr. (9), John Peter (8), Katherine Ann (5) and David Keith (1). TOM LOPINA has joined Thome United, Inc., Addison, HI., as financial VP and treasurer. Tom will soon receive his MBA from DePaul. 
JIM SCHAAF, who took Roger Valdiserri's job as pub. dir. of the Kansas City Chiefs, has been promoted to ass't gen. mgr. Judy and BO BROEMMEL now have three children: Brad (6), Jeffrey (3) and Barbara Renee (9 mos.). Reporting in with three sons are Eileen and KNUTE CAVANAUGH, the most recent being Keith Larson (Feb. 3). Knute will finish orthopedic surgery residency July 1 and then set up practice in Longmont, Colo, (just north of Denver and near the ski slopes!) BUCK (RANDY) McELHONE is now VP (in cRarge of marketing) and part owner of Nevada Bev. Co. in Las Vegas, is receiving numerous civic and business awards and runs the Oktoberfest in Las Vegas. Buck and Leezie have two children, John Randall (SV^) and Cyrene Lee (2'A). Frequent visitors to the McHhone household are TED BARES (who has his own const, company in Salt Lake City) and LARRY McGOVERN (who works for Nat. Ed. TV and lives in Washington, DC). Both bachelors seem to enjoy visiting Las Vegas! 
JOE MOLNAR is a practicing physician in St. Louis County, and is the father of a baby daughter. Practicing law in Hkton, Md.. is JULIUS JODLBAUER. Julius married Marcia Isaac in 1964 and they have two children. HUGH T. MURPHY joined the Ford Found, as ass't to the rep. this past year, and is in charge of administration for operations in East and West Pakistan. Joanne and Hugh's address is % Ford Found., 
P.O. Box 1043, Islamabad, Pakistan. PAUL WILLIHNGANZ wrote to announce the arrival of Heather Mary (Sept. 16). She has a brother Joey (2) and her father practices trial law with the San Diego firm of Higgs, Jennings, Fletcher and Mack. PHIL KILKEARY, after five years as a USAF pilot, an MBA at Pitt, a stint with Martin Aircraft, is now in Washington, DC, as a consultant with Peat Marwick Mitchell. Phil is living in Chevy Chase, Md., and has maintained contact with JACK McGRATH, PAUL ANDERSON, BILL McCAFFREY, Dr. 
BOB WILLIAMS (at McGee Hospital, Pittsburgh) and TED McDONALD (working for a Wichita bank, dealing with portfolio investments and bragging about his one-year-old son). 
RUDY HORNISH is presendy the account exec, on Time-Life books at Wun­derman, Ricotta and Kline (ad agency), is living in NJ with three children, Mark (7). Stephanie (6) and NeU (2). The third child was bom to Khaki and RAY WHELAHAN last November. The Whelahans live at 105 Brookside Rd., Darien, Conn. 
Joseph P. Mulligan 
Admissions Office 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 

'60L POX ON YOU A bit of delayed news—^Donna and BOB HOUSE have announced the birth of Sean Snedeker House on Feb. 22, I%9. That's right fellows, 1969, not 1970. Awright, the kid was already ten months old when I received the announcement in Dec! Congrats to LARRY WICH­MAN on his election as Judge of the Kenton Circuit Ct. in Covington, Ky. He's the first in our class to reach the bench. Larry is also the first and only one to respond to my plea for interest in a 10-year class reunion this fall. Let me know which game you're going to, Larry, and I'll meet you for a drink afterwards. As for the rest of you crumbs, a pox on you! 
John A. DiNardo 4S0 Oakland Dr. 
Highland Park, III. 60O3S 
'61 NEWS NOTES 

Maggy CRONIN put a note on her Christmas card and said that MIKE will probably have to have his foot amputated after the hoUdays because of his accident. Best of luck, Mike. I hope everything went fine. Maggy is expecting—and— hoping it's a boy. The Cronins now have three daughters. DAVE HUDSON who married the former Yasuko Taya of Nagoya, Japan, received his Ph.D. in 1967 in history from Columbia U. Dave and his family have moved to Fresno, Calif., where he is an ass't prof, of history at Fresno State. The Hudsons have two sons, Christopher and David. 
News from the ALUMNUS OfBce: BARRY HYNES is an investment counselor. ANTHONY SORCE teaches a course in sculpture at Pace College, Westchester, NY. He was a Guggenheim Fdlow in creative sculpture and is the recipient of many awards and honors and has held more than 10 one-man shows. KEN QUINN was appointed admin, ass't to the exec, secretary of the Uiban Affairs Committee of the American Bankers Assn. He is married and has one child. TERENCE SHEA is staff writer of the National Observer and won the 1969 Supple Memorial Award for excellence in the reporting of religious news in the secular press. He and his wife have two chUdren. GARY SCHEURING is a second VP in the commeFcial banking department at Continental Bank, Chicago. GERALD R. FEELEY has been ap­pointed as Fla. sales rep. for Aztec Products, Inc, Lyndhurst, NJ. PAT HAIL has been appointed an associate in the Chestnut Office of Romac and Assoc. He resides with his wife and three cluldren in Burlington, Mass. 
The Alumni Fund Office has passed on some information also. A. MEYERL has just accepted a new position with Kuhlman Bee. Co., Lexington, Ky. He will be mgr. of sales services and began Jan. 1. The Meyerls have two boys. 
A. LAWLOR recently transferred to the Phila. office of Lybrand Ross Bros. & Montgomery to start a consulting unit in employee benefits and exec, compensa­tion. Their first son, David, was bom last July. ED (DIGGER) DAWSON received his MBA in marketing in '63 from Xavier U. After completing his military obligation in the USAF reserve program, Ed is now eastern regional sales mgr. with Arvin Industries in Columbus. Ind. Ed married Margaret Spiegel from ShelbyvUle, Ind., last Jan. CHARLES BARRY now holds the position of midwest regional mgr. with Boothe Computer Corp. The Barrys have two children. Colleen and Brian and are living in Rolling Meadows, 111. DOUG KOCH and his wife, Kay, and daughter, Michele, live in Las Vegas, Nev. Doug is a sem'or eng. with E G i G, Inc. He is enrolled in the MBA program at Nevada U. and should complete this summer. 
I would like some more information on some of you that I haven't heard from. Just drop me a note or have the wife do it. 
William Henneghan 30556 Scrivo Warren, Mich. 48092 
'62L FELIX WAS HERE This report is a bit dated, since I missed the last deadline but—FELIX MACI­SZEWSKI came into town during Feb. for a week-long PLI course at the NYC Hilton. The course, dealing with trial law, was right down the alley for "Mac" who together with ED MALAPUT are two of the leading trial lawyers on the Islands. Felix is trial partner in the Hilo and Honolulu firm of Carlsmith, Carismith, Wichman and Case. Ed prac­tices on one of the smaller islands and, according to Felix, is about to resign and run for DA. Although he was preoccupied for most of his stay with this course and the opera, Felix stole away one night and had a midnight meal with Marge and me at a most secluded spot in Little Italy. Must say that Mac's description of Hawaiian life was most inviting what with its easy commutation and ready access to beaches, etc. Felix said that he's thinking about going with his wife to London for next ('71) summer's ABA Convention. Marge and I are also thinking of same. Anybody else? Congrats to BILL KELLY. He's now a partner in the Chicago firm of Pope, Ballard, Kennedy, Shepard & Fowle. GEORGE PELLETIER is a prof, of law al SMU and is working on a comprehensive text on franchising law for McGraw-HQI. LOU ROBERTS has moved from Ft. Wayne to the sunshine of Hollywood (4233 Washington St.), Fla. 
In Feb. I resigned after five years with the office of US Attorney for the Southem Dist of NY and joined Bob Morgenthau as an asst. deputy mayor under Mayor John V. Liniteay. Recently, I took a leave of absence to aid Bob Morgenthau in his quest for the NY governorship. 
Paul K. Rooney 51 Chambers St. New York, N.Y. 10007 
'65 BAD NEWS receiving his JD at Columbia Law ScfeooL Unfortunatdy death has again touched our PETER J05T is now associated widi 
class. Ens. TERRENCE P. RYAN was Bache & Co. in Chicaga as a ttgettttd 
killed in Vietnam in Feb. and JOHN rep. ALFRED JOHN WmiNE has 
C. MEAGHER died last July after sus­received his MA in German tmn Iowa U. taining a heart attack while water skiing. and 1st Lt. MIKE HOYT is in dniie 
JOE LADRIGAN has been promoted of a USAF unit at Fort Lee, Va. to capt in the USAF and is stationed at He and his wife are proud parents ot Waiiams AFB, Calif. BERNEY ZAHREN William Louis, bom in Nov. has been named mgr. of planning in the RICHARD DALRYMPLE of ChenKal forest prod. div. of Koppers Co., Inc., Bank, was promoted to asst sec of the Pittsburgh. ROBERT MARKEL has been metro, div. He lives with his wife, appointed an instr. of pol. set. at the Kathleen, and three children in Piscatanay, 
American Intemat College, Springfield, NJ. AL SCHULTE has formed a new 
Mass. JIM WALSH is now the mgr. company which importsflowers from 
of commercial and govt, marketing of Ecuador, Costa Rica, Cotombta and Hy-Gain Electronics Corp. Capt Guatemala—and mass maricets them all BILL DONOHOE is back from Vietnam over the eastern US. AI is home based in 
and is serving at Griffiss AFB, NY, as a Cleveland but will soon set up a disuib. ground electronics eng. RICHARD center in Miami PAT WARD and his wife NOTEBAERT is now an admin. assL Nancy and son, Kelly Patrick, are liviiit 
in the investment dept of Marine Midland in Chicago where Pat is working on a Trust Co. of Western NY. MIKE TOAL law degree. 1st U. BIFF BAKER is is a personnel admin, in Associates comideting his USN duty on a km^ Consumer Finance Co., and is responsible island off the coast of Alaska and LES for recruiting and personnel admin, for' CUDDIHY is serving in an Army ens. Co. Associates midwest zone. Mike and wife, in Long Bien, Vietnam. Les plans to Ginny, have two children. Lt. PAT return to ND and finsh his degree in 
FORD'S wife, Claire, pve birth to their arch. RON BLASZCZYK is working first dau^ter, Katherine Jean, in March. for United Air Lines as a maAet analyst The proud father has been stationed after obtaining an MBA from DePanI U. 
in Pensacola with the JAG Corps since and spending two years in the Anny in 

Congrats 
JOSEPH A. TONINI '56, JOHN P. THURIN '59, who joined Micro former ALUMNUS edi­Switch immediately after tor, has opened his own graduation is now product commimications business manager of basic in South Bend. Mark-switches. His new re­makers, Inc., by name, the sponsibilities will include group will be preparing management of all basic radio, TV and space ad­and custom switches. vertising, commtmity and 
institutional publications 
and films. 

DONALD J. BARR '57, of Stamford, Conn., has JOSEPH R. SULLIVAN been appointed produc­'63, who received his J.D. 
tion director of Time 
from the University, 
magazine. This new post has been elected assistant was recently created to 
vice-president of Asso­
coordinate the world­ciates Corporate Services wide effort involved in the 
Co., Inc. He lives with 
physical manufacturing his wife, Mary Patricia, and distribution of the 
and their two sons in 
magazine. 
South Bend. 
EDWARD J. MEELL ROBERT L CHERNIS '58, of Somerset, N.J., '64 has joined Austin has been appointed Systems Co., Burlington, editor-in-chief of the text-Mass., as vice-president film division of McGraw-and director of product 
Hill Book Co. He has planning. Prior to his new 
responsibility for product position, he was with development in social IBM, specializing in usage studies, vocational educa­of mediimi-sized 
tion, and the hiunanities. 
computers. 
dfeaaadO^ 

KICHABD ZnO wi 
K*r KaadMM last StfL aid ii awr 
piacticiaB law ia Chicatou XIHN 
DeCHEUIS motOf v*mti Ma GPA 
exam aad ww adaintd to : 
the AKPA. He awl wife, i 
• booe ia Lyadhanl, Oit, 
he wxte as a* aaM. coMialw 

for Spngmi Pndacis. tac^ After Mi OcL 
dHckatge fiwa Oe USMC XMN 
HOWAKD ictoMd to Ml job of i 
Co. ia Cliaw>. BILL HENNEUUnr is the sale* av- at IlMMiluiijr Adek A Olds in Bdvedev^ ID., aadfcaa two dddcca: DtMiie; 6^ aad Sctttf, 3. lEE BERNHARD is woAhw for Wolcni Elec Co. as a supewisor at Ae • . Sarviee Ceaier la West Chirapt after ooflflcliNS a Otee-year VSN tour. 
DAVID CUSACX kai Ml HA. aad 
win (CGcm his PU>. ia Jnaefroai the 
gtad. sdool of laleiaat Stadies ct-
Denver U. after coaiplelia> Mi yean of 
diwertalinn tcsean* ia Chae. David is ­
now a 1st U. ia the Anny. DKK ' 
DARKO has becoeie aa aaaoc. ia ike IMT 
firm of BniilMai, Snaaaen. Wctt A-••"=' 
Spdmaa ia ladbnapoiis. U. J. B. PHIL 
MANTEY was BMnicd bi Apdto1 
erine Krandall in Glassport, Pa. and is working in Washington for Vice Ad­miral Rickover. 
James P. Hamisch 
3700 Buford Hi^way, Apt 98 
Atlanta, Ga. 30329 

'«6 BE AT ARMY 
Again I'm taking the liberty to fill in mth 
some class news. I spoke with DICK 
ANGELOm, our faithful scribe, on the 
fbone and he's in an extremely busy 
period in that new law practice and asked 
me to go ahead and do my thing. 
First, a momentous announcement! Well hold a class reunion followuig the ND-Army game Oct 10 in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn. So order your tickets and plan on being there. We figured that would be the best weekend, taking into consideration the weather, the fact that Purdue tickets will be hard to come by, and the fact that the last three home games are all in Nov. 
Now to the news. JOHN TWOHEY is my trusty next door neighbor and teaches in the CA Dept at ND. He tells me that TOM BETTAG is with CBS in Washington, DC, after teaching at and earning an MS from Columbia, and that BARRY McNAMARA is practicing law in Chicago and is actively involved in Adlai Stevenson's politick campaign. I also understand that TOM COX is back in town and working at WSBT radio after completing a USN tour. PAT BAUER is teaching at a local grammar school here in So. Bend and—get this— is running for State Rep. We also heard that SID BAKER, who had been with a local bank, has returned to Indianapolis in the same line of work. MIKE KRACH was recently transferred from Detroit to Toledo in an upward move with Owens-Coming and is raising his growing family in that western O. town. He mentioned that LARRY ALLEN should be back from a year of med. study in Africa and should be embarking on his internship. 
I understand that my old roomie MIKE WADSWORTH has his foot in the door with one of the leading criminal law firms in Toronto and is still putting on the togs with the Argos. Coach Tom Pagna said he saw PETE DURANKO in Denver and that Pete hasn't changed a bit—except that he now has a wife and (I think) a cUld or two. BARRY BARTH is working here on campus with a federally funded commun. project He got hitched in Dec. and now be and his lovely wife Barb live in a swinging apt complex not far from ND. He tells me that DEAN PLANEAUX is working with the Nat Bank of Detroit and that he and Mary have two youngsters. Hie word is that JIM IRETON has entered the printing business with his brothers in Kettering, O. and that he and Mary also have two young ones. DAVE WORLAND will begin med. school in the fall after taking some science courses to augment his business degree from ND. He and Mary live in town and also have two children. My wife, Lynn, and I see LOU SHARPE and his Pattiann regulariy. After obtaiiung his Fh.D. in chem. from CaL TedL, Lou is doing post-doc. research in the rad. lab. here at ND. 
That's about it as far as the news I've got I know there must be plenty more out there. You guys drop a post card to Dick or to this office and 111 see that he gets the news. Let's ktep tnck of each other. Whidi lenands me to tdl you to be ^ advance plamdng for our first reunion iriiich takes place on campus next June. No specific dates as yet but DON BOUFFARD and I have lesenred the Monogram Room of the ACC for our dass festivities. Keep it in miiid. 
Tom Sullivan for 
Richard H. Angdotti 
8640 S. 86th Ave., Apt 203 
Justice, 111. 604S8 
'66L ONE TO GO Martha Jo McKENNA was bom to AL and Windy on Feb. 27. She wagbed 7 lbs. 9 oz. Congrats! I received a letter from BOB SIEBERT (84-20 Chatiecote Ridge, Jamaica, NY 11432). Bob has been employed since JaiL with the Estates and Gifts Section of the IRS Office in Brooklyn. Bob returned from Vietnam in late 1969, and while there ran into MARTY CONWAY in Saigon. 
PHIL RUDDY of Aurora, lU.. was named one of three recipients of the 111. Jaycees' Distinguished Service Award. He has worked to establish a permanent legal aid program for low-income persons and helped to devdop the dty's current fair housing ordinance. Phil is a partner with his father (Oarence 
J. Ruddy '27L) in the firm of Ruddy, Myler and Bartsch. PAUL POLKING will leave the Office of the Cbmpt of the Currency on June 1 and irill be Legal Counsel to the North Carolina Nat Bank. He and Joan will be residing in Charlotte, NC. Cookie and I are awaiting the last week in June when we will take a golfing trip to Bermuda for our seventh anniversary. 
Although our reunion is approximately one year away it is not too early to give some thought to planning. I would like to hear from each of you as to your interests and suggestions. I expect to have several occasions to bear TOM READY enundate "RMFR"! Please write. 
Frank Gregory 
S018 Woodland Way Annandale, Va. 22003 
'«7 A WORD OR TWO For openers, an introductory conmient As a class we have had our moments of silence and, as the saying goes, "No news is good news." But we can only do that for so long—ri^t? JOHN HUGHES and I will be teaming up to keep all of you informed, but we obviously need the news from you. My wife and I, the former JoAnn Ijcate (SMC '69) are Uving in Columbus, O., after spending two years at Comell U., where I recaved a MBA. I'm with Price Wateihouse Accounting Co. and JoAim is working for the Ohio Historical Sodety. 
ED MANKEY, my dd roommate, has a new roommate now—she is the former Kathy Bulfer from Hammond, Ind. Ed and Kathy have been married for almost two years and during our last get-together be assured me he was to continue as an internal auditor at Col. Giissom Air Force Base in Peru, Ind. JOHN C. BUTLER, who also lives in Columbus, is married to the former Carolyn Wood and has a son, MiduMl. John was married two years ago this July and is working as an admiidstrator for a local bank. Hat dd redhead, JOHN JORDAN, has been hiding out in Denver in seaidi of a law degree from the U. of Denver, which he will receive in June. John is mankd to the former Carolyn Kienstra (SMC '69) of EdwardsviUe, n . John win complete his ROTC commitment upon graduation. 
TIM CREANY is a 1st Lt in the USMC and residing in Pacific Groves Cal. wiiile he is in Vietnamese langiage school. He is married to the former Anne Dndlett and they are the proud new parents of Timothy. ED (CHIP) MALIK is in EtaNaiig, South Vietnam, as a helicopter pilot with the USMC. His wife, the former Pat Creany (SMC '69) is living with her parents in Ebensburg, Pa. She is working as a medical tech. at a local hospital. Ed will be home in Oct and we wish him the best of luck. "BUTCH" BYRNE was last seen in Rochester, NY., working as an ind. eng. for Eastman Kodak. Butch recdved his MS in eng. from Purdue U. in 1968. 
That's an for this time . . . i^ease write and give us the news! 
Jack Buttler 
249 E. Kossuth St 
Columbus, Ohio 43206 
'68 NUMEROUS NOTES On behalf of aU the members of the class, I would like to extend our sincere condolences and prayers to the parents of Lt JOHN L. ROCHE who was kflled in service on Dec. 15, 1969. His loss wiU be felt by those of us who knew him during his years at ND. Reports have reached me that the stork has leaUy been busy among our class. Congrats to JOHN & Penny KRIESE on the birth of their son, Thomas Edward, June 27, 1969. PAUL MAY'S lovely wife Patty gave birth to a boy, Michael Adrian, April 9, 1969. CHET & Mary SIMMONS have added to their brood with the birth of Kiisten Ann on Sept 1, 1969. The Siitunonses are now Uving in Allison Park, Pa. Congrats to TIM & Dusty MOR­RISSEY on the birth of their secoiul chad, Timothy Richard, Jan. 10. Their daughter Jody is 20 months old. 
CHRIS & Carmi MURPHY are the proud parents of Christopher Joseph TV, bom on Feb. 20. ED WILBRAHAM reports that all is wdl in Darmstadt, West Germany, where he is stationed compUments of Uncle Sam. Ed was married to the former Missy Kenney on Jan. 4, 1%9. Also depleted from the bachdor ranks are TOM NELSON who married the former Lynne Gorski in St Louis on Nov. 29, 1969, and MICHAEL BRENNAN, who married the former Adrienne M. Smith. Mike and his wife win be living in London imtil Sept while Mike is studying at the U. of London under the sponsorship of the law school at ND. The Air Force seems to have its share of ND men. 1st Lt GERALD P. CARROLL recently flew an A-37 in a support mission six miles southeast of Katum in Tay Ninh Province, Vietnam. Lt JAMES DEFILIPPI married the former Karen Kramarsic on Oct 10, 1969, and is stationed at Malmstnim AFB, Great Falls, Mont 
2nd Lt RICHARD DILORENZO is a candidate for his MBA at Ohio State U. and is assigned to the Directorate of Foreign Technology in the Aeronautical system division. JOHN H. PHILLIPS received his pnot wings and wiU be 

assigned to Webb AFB, Texas, for flight duty with the Air Training Command. JEFF STUART is working for his MBA 


Take it away9 Tony! 
in Information systems at San Diego State 
and has been elected president of Sigma Iota Epsiton, National Management Fraternity for •69-TO. MIKE & Joyce DOMBROWSia are the proud parents of Deanna Marie, bom on June 3, 1969. Mike is stationed in Savannah, Ga., partidpating in the Army's advanced rotary wing flight training. 
RAY MUNCHMEYER reports that after receiving his MBA from Northwestern he worked for Polaroid Corp. in Waltham, Mass., until March when he entered Artillery Officer's Basic at F t Bliss, Texas. Our condolences to his wife Car­ntela who is recovering from the loss of her second baby. Lt. JAMES DUFFY is working with the Army Corps of Engineers in the Philly District after having graduated from Engineering OCS. BILL SCHNORENBERG is a systems analyst at Kelsey-Hayes and his wife Karen gave birth to WillUun Thomas on Aug. 17, 1969. JIM SCHINDLER married the former Glenna Fusillo on Sept 13, 1%9, and is currently engaged in the graduate program in hosjatal admin, at the 
U. of Chicago. SgL MIKE BROWNING has joined some of us on the lost continent BJCK GUTOWSKI is engaged to Kathy Sullivan, SMC '69, and plans to be married on Aug. 8. Rick is with the 12th Fin. Sec. USATCA, F t Knox, Ky. L t DREW HELLMUTH is in Vietnam with 173rd ABN BDE on a pacification mission and will be returning to the US in Oct Lt LOU KELLY Jr. is the adjutant of the 442nd SigBn in Karat, ThaOand. Lou and his lovely wife Judy have an 8-month-old daughter. WALLY FEHST is with computer Sciences Corp. in Los Angeles after receiving his MBA from Northwestern. He is scheduled to fulfill his ROTC commitment in Air Defense Artillery in May. BRYAN DUNIGAN III is in his second year at ND Law School and welcomes all his 
friends to his house at 18368 State Rd. 23, So. Bend. 
LOU BLAUM Jr. and LOU PIETRA­GALLO are both in their second year at Jefferson Medical College and are fraternity brothers in Phi Alpha Sigma. Lou P. and Janet Hough are scheduled to tie the knot on Aug. 22. After the withdrawal of the 1st Inf. Div. your class secretary was assigned to the 64th Fin. Sec. in Quang Tri Province. 
SP/4 Leonard J. Pellecchia 
148-36-8584 64th Fin. Sec. APO. S.F. 96495 
'68L VIETNAM NEWS 
All the news this month is from Vietnam. I received a long letter from FRANK SMITH who is now approaching the end of his tour. He should be heading back to the US in less than three months. Frank has been pleasantly surprised by his stay with the Army, enjoying it much more than he bad originally thought possible. In between shufliing papers, i^c h we aU do, he has been doing his best to bring a little more liberal en­lightenment into the service. I don't know how succMsful be has been, but at least he hasn't been court-martialed. Otie of the benefits attached to a tour in 
A flash of green, the flag drops, and the drivers sprint across the track. A second passes for seat belt fastening and then the world exfdodes as Toiqr and the other drivers leap forward off the grid. Anthony J. DeLorenzo '65, ND business administration major, with a master's in public relations from Boston University, is doing what he wants to do—drive. Drive fast! Since his undergraduate days and his first trip to the Meadowdale, m. Uack, Tony has wanted to race. On reaching 21, the legal age for member­ship in Sports Car Club of America, he left ND classes for a "long weA­end" and headed for Watkins Glen, 
N.Y. to the three-day driving schotrf. Since then education and a career as a public relations man with North American Rockwell have vied with racing for first place in Tony's program of priorities. Racing won out. 
Talking with Tony is a MOVING experience. You begin back in 1966 in a Corvair, third in the race of the SCCA. In '67 you take second place in a Corvette at the American Road Race of Champions. In '68 you endure those long 24 hours at Daytona and lose out at Sebring's 12-hour, because of mechanical failures. But finally that coveted No. 1 spot comes in the Grand Touring division at the '69 Watkins Glen. The year's end shows championship title for the SCCA Central Division "A" and national title at the American Road Race of Champions. 
Owens-Coming found a winning team to sponsor in DeLorenzo and his partner, Jerry Thompson. Both men can tell some exciting tales, but it would be diiiicult to surpass two of Tony's. He wonders about the time 
Tony drives it home. 
his racerflipped over twice and landed on its wheels, was that his mnt an> hour? Or was it the'69 Bartons whea his own car Uew a tire and hit flie wall? The tSfHoaoa ripped one fender, knocked tiie bottom off tiie fiid pump and dumped gasoline onto the hot engine. The machine cao ^ fire and had to be retired. After relieving Thompson in the second car, the front tire Uew and carried die red-and-idiite machine into die retaining wall. Is it any wonder that DeLorenzo finds it difficult to lecaD the details of smaddng that barrier at 180 m.p.h.? 
What about before-the-raoe jitters? Outwardly Tmy can remain cabn but inward excitement is terrific BeCme the Daytona the team worked ontfl midni^t of the eve, were up at-five to put on the finishing touches, wheeled the vettes out at one, reviewed the race {dan and were ready fw that three o'clock start Their plan called for two hours driving and two hours off. The "•(XT limes meant some nibUing and an attempt to rdax. 
This promises to be a big year. Tony is going professional; tiie team will move into the sedan series widi the Camera; and Troy Promotitns, Inc., DeLoienzo's own company, win expand the variety of its services to include just about everything of interest to those in the racing fidd. 
Why does he race? His terse, staccato answers convey a love cS. speed "such terrific power — control it.. . demanding precision. If yoa move over an inch or increase your speed a half mile it could mean disaster." 
It was difficuh to sapfttss a grin as Tony left saying, "You know, Fm terrified driving on the chy streets." 
Vietnam is the opportunity to travd, and Frank recently conydeted an R ft R stay in Australia. He has done nofliing but rave about the coimtry and its people, who were most cordial to all the Americans there. It sounds like he likes the place almost as much as CaL Before leaving Vietnam, Frank idans on visiting Taipei or Hong Kong and, on his way home, hopes to spend some time in Japan (probably to pick up some stereo equipment cheap). 
Frank reports that he spent a weekend with BOB WILCZEK shortly before Bob returned to the States. Bob was involved with cloak-and-dagger-type intelligence work and even had a Vietnamese counterpart It sounded as if there was enough material for an "I Spy" program. J(HIN COYLE is also in Vietnam and dropped in to see Frank one day. 
J. C. was his usual self. As indicated before, he is working in supply but also gets to do a good bit of legal work. With all the people we have in Vietnam ruiming into each other like this, we should probably have ourfirst reunion over there. 
Hiat's it for now. My thanks to all those who have continued to write. If you do write and don't receive an answer, please don't be offended. I don't often get a chance to write, but you can be sure anything you have to tell will make its way into the column. 
Dennis C. Tbelan 7816 Lisa Dr. Norfolk, Va. 23518 

'69 FINALLY! The past issues of the ALUMNUS have been noticeably lacking in news of the infamous dass of '69. Therefore, I have taken it upon myself to see that we mi^t be represented in subsequent issues by relating what I've heard in recent months. Peisonally, I'm attending law school at the U. of Toledo. Sure I like it but the dty of Toledo isn't everything DAVE WITT said it is. Last fall I was in Deaibom, Mich., for the wedding of GENE HAMMOND and Kathy Sweeney. I remember seeing HUB MILLER, GREG RYDER, JIM CONWAY and listoiing to ERROL FLYNN relate his stories on traveling across the US. Gene is with the Navy in the Conn. area. In Feb. the Detroit-ND basketball game was in the spotlight. We won the game in overtime and later celebrated with JERRY TEAGAN, ERNIE GARGARO and DICK DRENEVICH at one of the local pubs. Jerry is working with Ernst & Ernst, and "E. J." is with Price Waterhouse. Dick is doing architectural work in the Detroit area. 
Over Easter I had a jdeasant lunch with MK E PASQUALE in DC. He's happQy married now and moving his pencil for Arthur Anderson. Mike mentioned he and Pam were considering moving back to NY ia June. Ihey are expecting a child in October. CHRIS DEE is at Loyola of Chicago finishing up woik on his M.BA Hell be married in June. PETE McKEE is also joining the tide at ND on the same day (June 8) with SMC's favorite southern belle, Diane Wallace. 
JIM BENNETT is teaching high school in Bnblo. Jim is the first male teacher at an all-girl school. Jim's not comi^aining at an. If you are going to teach, why not go to Hawaii like CHAD LOVE and JOHN HAIRE. The word firom them is it's another worid—they may never retunL ND Law SdMoI is die home of many of our class menibers Ais year. JIM HARRISONreports It's a Adl-time job, thereby keeping him from spending as much time as he like at Sweeny's. 
CARM PINO is working part-time with Price Waterhouse and is a fiUI-time student at NYU Law Schod. RICH MALECKI is in law at CotndL Anyone have any "extra" money? JIM JULIAN has just finished his training with Badie & Co. in NYC and Is a fiill-tiffle broker in the Buffalo ofi&x. KEV LAVIN just ducked into a Marine Reserve unit and leaves in May for six mondis training. Kev moved fast as be was No. 2 in the recent lottery. He had been working in the Detroit area. 
I heard TOM McKINLEY is stm at ND finishing up on his five-year program. Tom helped coach the freshman team last fall. BILL CULLEN is currently teaching at St Joe High in So. Bend. His roommate TOM PAYNE, currently at ND law, has just received a fdlowship to Claremont (Calif.) College in the school of int relations. Good ludc, Tont 
This is the news I have off hand. Why not forward to me «4ut's happening with you and/or any of the dass members. Nothhig fancy, just a note and 111 see that it gets in the next issue. Hope to be hearing from you. 
Mike Neumeister 64 West Winspear Ave. Buffalo, N.Y. 14214 
'69L LOOKING GOOD Spring greetings to all my fdlow '69ers. liiis column is being composed on my return trip from Chicago libeie Vatsy and I wimessed the wedding of ZEP KENNEDY and Sue Hdtz. Zep and Sue 
are going to settle down for the time being in Kingston, NY, with IBM. Among the notables present at the festivities were "XEROX ZEP" FRANTIN, Joyce and BOB NEIRYNCK, Sue and "STAR" STARSHAK, TONY SIEMER, JIM MACKIN, REGIS TRENDA and youis truly. Frantin has posted a victory over the NY bar exam and is wodang in NYC for a defendant's firm. Tony and Bob are keeping the practitioners in Southern IlL honest: Tony has a practice in Teutopolis and Bob has assocUted himself with a firm in Champaign-Utbana. Jim Mackin is getting ready to finish his year as a federal deric, and has his eye open for opportunity in dther NYC or Washington, DC. Regis, of course, is doing well with the hSLRB in Chicago. The weekend was a great opportunity to visit Star who is now a "tax-'em" man with the EsUtes Division of the IRS. 

Special congrats are due to Maiy and GEORGE BALL on the birth of their little giri, Ann Marie, and to Fatty and TIM MALLOY on the birth of Christopher John. George and his family are living in Troy, Mich., from whence George sallies forth daily to defend CM in workmen's comp. litigation. Tim is a patent attorney in the Windy City. Liz Durand dropped a note saying that "CRASH" DURAND is working hard, but baj^y, with R-D Products in Rochester, NY. The Captain hasn't missed a Sat yet, and perhaps for that reason it appears that he has become a VP in the corp. To think that one year ago he was but a small entrepreneur in a little-known So. Bend coffee establishment! AL REED has been spending his winter in Quantico, Va., along with Terry and MATT DWYER. They have ilone so well that they have been given permission to use live ammo in their practice maneuvers. Al was not exactly thrilled about that achievement, but he is looking forward to July, by irtiich time he should be a captain in the USMC and wdl on his way through Mflitary Justice School in RI. Other news of militaiy '69ers: it is rumored that JOHN RITTENGER is in Jump School at Ft Bragg. 
Chipper and HANK CATENACCI have established a household in Piscataway, NJ, and Hank is presently clerking for the Hon. Robert Shaw of the Fed. Dist Ct in Newark. JIM ZAK is giving up federal deiking this summer: he and Sue have dedded to move to Col., in which state the average practitioner is 7000 feet doser to TRUTH. As you will recall, Jim passed the Col. bar exam last summer. 
Scott Atwdl 1049 Humbolt Denver, Colo. 80218 
Fonner Stadcat Maaagos to Gaflwr 
All fonner student athletic managers are invited to par­ticipate in areunion foUowing the Anny game, October 10. Details are now being arranged. For further information please contact: 
James McGraw 571S Pinehill Lane Cincinnati, Ohio 45238 Phone: 513-922-0547 

ON BECOHD 
ENGAGEMENTS Miss Eileen Nardo to JCHIN A. CALABRIA '68. Miss Lama B. Waters to WILLIAM T. HEIDEN JR. '68. Miss Kathy Malone to GORDON BEELER '69. 
MARRIAGES Miss Kaien Louise Johnson to JAMES JANAS '64, May 8. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE A. BARISCILLO '44, a daughter, Melissa Mary, March 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT J. DUNCAN '44, twin daughters, Kara Kelly and Andrea Ruth, Feb. 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. JACOB A. DVORAK '60, a daughter, Jadnta Marie, April 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES F. LENNON 
'61, a daughter, Maureen Theresa, March 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. UEB '63, a daughter, March 7. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT KASTIN M.S. '65, a daughter, Lisa, April 3. 
SYMPATHY PETER M. RAFFEFTO '57. on the death of his mother, March 14. DENNIS TROESTER '57, on the death of his mother, Jan. 19. 
DEATHS 
JAY L. LEE '12, April He is survived by his dau^ter, Mrs. DamA D. Meniman, Lee Hills, Maple City, Mich. 
Rev. PATRICK DOLAN CSC '15, April 12. 
ALBERT C. SCHLIPF '16, March 15. He is survived by his widow, 1218 W. Pine, Springfield, 111. 62704. 
JOHN E. DUFFY '18, Dec. 24, 1968. He is survived by his widow, 7700 South Shore Dr., Chicago, HI. 60649. 
JOHN F. HEFFERNAN '22, Feb. 16. He is survived by his widow, 28 Riverside Ave Red Bank, NJ. 07701 and a son, John, 31 Seven Bridge Rd, little Silver, NJ. 
JAMES R. McCABE "22, March 19. He is survived by his widow, 110 E. Ninth St, Los Angeles, Calif. 90015. 
JOSEPH J. WALLACE '22. 
ROSWELL P. OEHM '25, April 11. He is survived by his widow, II.FJD. 3, Michigan City, Ind. 
JOHN J. TOOLEN "25, April 14. He is survived by his widow, 1301 49th St, St Petersburg, Fla. 33710. 
EDWARD A. BYRNE '26, November, 1968. 
JULIUS C. McCOY '27, Feb. 27. He is survived by his widow, 112 Irving Place, Rutherford, NJ., and a son, WiUiam. 
JOHN S. CULLEN '28, April 15. He is survived by his widow, 62 Coburg St, Bublo, N.Y., son, JOHN '58 and three other children. 
ROBERT JEROME FLINT '33, Jan. 17. 
STEPHEN L. HORNYAK '33, Fd>. 19. He is survived by his widow, 2401 Qyde Rd., Homewood, 10.60430. 
JOSEPH H. V/OODKA '33, April 19. He is survived by his widow, 3002 Miami St., South Bend, Ind. Other survivors include sons, Denis, Richard, Keimeth and Joseph and a dao^tCT, Mis. Joan ] 
VINCENT J. REISHMAN '34, May l i He is survived by his widow and two sons, ROBERT and JOBH, 4200 Stanotoa Ave. SE, Charieston, W. Va. 
EDWARD G. LeIEUNE '35, Apig 19. He is survived by his widow, dao^iten. Shannon and Kathleen and sons, TIMOTHY '69, Brian, and Tenance livii« at home, 1966 Robincrest Lane, Gleuview, HI. 60025. He is survived also Iqr dan^ters, Mrs. Sheila McGce and Mrs. Manreen Harty and son DENNIS '64 of Evamtoa. 
DANIEL T. MCLAUGHLIN >36, Feb. 
27. He is survived by his danghter, Mn. George Roberts and sons, Thomas, Joba and William. 
Dr. DONALD F. LeMIRE, "38, F* . 27. He is survived by his widow and a aoa, Donald, 1106 First Ave. S., Esonaba, Mich. 49829; and two daughters, Barbara and Susan of Mount Mary CoDege, Milwaukee. 
JOHN F. JAEGER "39, April 21. He 
CSC OHDiNATIONS 
Six members of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of the Holy Cross were ordained April 4 at Sacred Heart Church on campus. Three others in this year's class at Moreau Seminary, Robert R. Baker, Roger J. Cormier and William H. Kell^, members of the Eastern Province, were ordained in North Easton, Mass., April 11. Rev. Mauro Pando was ordained in December and Rev. John Connor in January. 
The Indiana province members are: Michael W. Glockner, John F. Lahey, Edward A. Malloy, ThcMnas C. Oddo, Francis J. Qninlivan, and Oliver F. Williams. 
Father Glockner, of CohmibuSk Ohio, enrolled as a freshman at ND in 1960. He was in the Naval ROTC program but after a year and a half transferred to Sacred Heart Novitiate in Jordan, Miim. He returned to Moreau and earned his A.B. in '66 and his M.A. in theology in *69. For the past year he has served as a deacon in Christ the King parish. South Bend. Father Glockner plans to continue parish woiic. 
Father Lahey, of La Porte, Ind., enrolled as a Ugh school freshman in Holy Cross Seminary, ND. After his first vows he returned to Mtxeau but after two years he became a lay student on campus. In 1966 he rejoined the Congregation. During the past year he has taught theol^ it sumed by tm widov. 303 W. DCM 
Ave, MadMW, Wa. 53716; IOM, JUitat 
and PMI; dwihiew, Mis. It—ill BoHler 
and Jane. 
wnuAM J. woaaasssx 'Mt, AOB. 2». He is smmed iqr Iiis widow, 34 Gomee Ave., Hweistnnr. N.Y. 109Z7. 
KMERT E. PHILPOTr'45, Nor. 9. He » nmrircd bjr lai fmatf, 056 Baibaia Dr., MeMor, OUo 44060. 
JERmiE FAUST '47. FU>. 21. He is sornved by hii Cuofly, Mil Maiy Meadows, St Looii, Mou 63141. 
JAMES B. DAVIS m '65. Jime 12,1969. He is HuviveJ by his widow, 12845 HntsoHu Way, Potomac, Md. 20SS4. 
TIMOTOY J. PFAHLER'gT, May 3. He is survired bjr hii pirciiH; Afr. wtA Mis. Heimu A. PftHer, 2616 AlfOMiin Paitony, Toledo, OUrna 43606. 
ARTHUR J. RAMBO '88. kOed ia Vietaani. Nov. 26. He is sunned hf his widow and paicais. Bos 201, Ubby. Moat 59923. 
at ND idiile acting as a resident 
assistant in Grace Tower. Father 
Lahey's father is an ND graduate 
of '33. 
Father Malloy entered ND m 1959 on a basked>a]l 9choIanliq>, and after graduation b^an his seminary traimog at the Holy Cross Fathers' bouse on camptis, After hb first vows he returned to ND, earning his M.A. in Fjjglish. He ^lent a summer in iaota city work DetriHt and a summer studying at Stanford U. in Califmnia. 
Father Oddo studied at ND firom '61-'6S, earning his A.B. FoUowing graduation he entered the novitiate, earning his MA. in theology in '69. During the past year he has been assistant to the chaplain at St Mary's and plans to continue his studies in thecriogy leading to a ioeXotats. 
Father Quinlivan entered Hdy Cross Seminary as a hi ^ school freshman in 1957. Afio- vows he returned to ND for his cxXitegt training. AO during his tbet^ogy days at Moreau, Father Quinlivan was deq^ invited in inner dty woik in South Bend's St Augustine's parish. 
Father Williams recehred a B5. in chemical eqfineering from ND in 1961. After graduatkm he was commissioned an officer in dieU ^ and served in die Meditenanean. In 1963 he joined the ccmgrccation, earning his MA. m diedogy in '69. 
GRAD SCHOOLS 
BUSINESS 
. The news since onr last report has been 

sparse, so this column will consist mainly 
of what was cut oat of ourfirst contribution, 
wliich admittedly was some«4iat lengthy. 
PETE SMITH reports that his family 
occasionally gets together with the BOB 

TIRMANS in the Boston area. One of our 
representatives in the banking industry, 

JOHN NESTOR, is working in a lending 
group for the Continental Illinois National 
Bank of Chicago. John is also appreciating 
the joys of his Air Force Reserve 
commitment. John's wife, Karen, is in 

high school counselling in the Chicago area. 
NICK WALZ is putting his employment 
with TWA to good advantage. He and 

Sara spent some time in Bermuda late this 
winter. KEN CULLUM is now personnel 
manager at Bristol Iron and Steel. RICK 
LYMAN and family are enjoying a six-
week business trip in California. 
At last report, five of our classmates 
have proudly announced post-graduate 
additions to their families. In order of 
appearance, they're: David Hores (June), 
Jennifer Cavato (June), Buffy Walz 

(September), Johnny Knittle (September) 
and Kevin Smith (December). Congratula­
tions to the proud parents. 
JOHN KNITTEL is keeping busy as a 
production manager with DuPont and 
teaching his nine-month-old son the finer 
points of golf. 

I know that many of you have undergone 
changes in your activities and locations. 
Please be sure to keep us informed. 
Joe Cavato 
4360 Maryland Ave. 
St Louis, Mo. 63108 
CHEMISTRY 
Prof. PATRICK A. McCUSKER '37 has 

been named emeritus professor. He retires 
after 33 years of teaching at ND. Prof. 

Dan Pasto was awarded a National Science 
Foundation postdoctoral fellowship. He will 
be at Stanford during the '70-71 academic 
year. Among those joining the faculty in 
September are Dr. Subhash C. Basu, a 

biochemist from Johns Hopkins; Dr. Walter 
Robert Scheldt from Cornell, an inorganic 
chemist specializing in x-ray diffraction; and 
Dr. Daniel H. Winicur, a physical chemist 
who is postdoctoring at Cal Tech with 

Prof. ARON KUPPERMANN '56, studying 
reactions in molecular beams. Prof. 
San-ichiro Mizushima from Tokyo visited 

the campus in April and spoke at the general 
seminar April 24. 

RICHARD FRIDAY recently completed 
the requirements for the Ph.D. He has an 
appointment as a faculty member at the 
ND CompuUng Center for '70-'71. 
LAWRENCE O'LEARY '33, manager of 
the Latex Division, general laboratory of 
the Fuller-O'Brien Corp., San Francisco, 
Calif., has been elected to honorary 
membership in the American Society for 
Testing and Materials. 
Bro. Columba Curran CSC 
Department of Chemistry 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46S56 
ENGLISH 

C. F. BURGESS, Ph.D. '62, has been awarded an American Council of Learned Societies Fellowship for 1971. He is currently working on an edition of the works of Thomas Pamell. Dr. Burgess, Prof, of 
EniJish at the Virgiiiia Militaiy Institute, 
Lexington, has previously hdd grants from 
the Ford Foundation, the Folger Library, 
and the American Miilosophical Society. His 
publications include The Letters of John 
Gay and Gay's Beggars Opera and Com­
panion Pieces as well as some thirty articles 
in such scholarly journals as Modem 
Philology, Nineteenth-Century Fiction, and 
Philological Quarterly. He will spend part 
of the next academic year in England. 
The U. of North Carolina Press has 
brought out a paperback edition of 
Katherine Anne Porter and the Art of 
Rejection by WILLIAM L. NANCE, Ph.D. 
'63, who is now on the faculty of the U. 
of Texas, Austin. He has also tau^t at 
Texas Western College and was a Fulbii^t 
lecturer in France at the U. of Lyon. His 
recent publications include articles on 
Flanneiy O'Connor and H. H. Brackenridge, 
and he has comj^eted a fuU-length study of 
Truman Capote. The latest article by Sr. 
LUCY SCHNEIDER, CSJ, Ph.D. '67, 
"Gather's Land PhOosoiAy in Death Comes 

for the Archbishop," appeared in the Winter 
issue of Renascence. Sister teaches at 
Marymount College, Salina, Kan. 
Two alumni have published newspaper articles suggesting educational iiuovation and reform. DONALD T. HATfNES, Ph.D. '68, of Seattle University, records his teaching experiments in a piece for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, "Bartenders, Baseball, and Higher Education." And FRANCIS J. MOLSON, Ph.D. '65, of Indiana U., answers "yes" to the titular question of his article in the South Bend Tribune: "Is Grading Degrading?" Dr. Molson spoke on "Relevance and Reality in Student Life Styles" at the national meeting of the College English Association held at ND April 24. At the same sessions Prof. LOUIS HASLEY, M.A. "31, became president-elect of the Indiana CEA. Another honor for Prof. FRANK O'MALLEY, M.A. '33: the Rev. Charles E. Sheedy Award for Excellence in Teaching. 

Sr. MARILYN PHILLIPS, OSF, MA. '54, has been elected a councilor for the Franciscan Sisters of the Sacred Heart. Formeriy a teacher at St Francis Woods, Mokena, 111., she is now devoting her fiiU time to the order's renewal program. Sr. JANE MARIE LUECKE, Ph.D. '64, is associate professor of En^ish at GkiaboaoL State U., StiUwater. Sr. KATHRYN MORAN, M.A. '69, who was awarded an NDEA grant for doctoral study, will return to the campus in September. 
An added feature of the 1970 suminer session will be a faculty workshop in the teaching of langu^e and literature. Six faculty members pursuing separate projects will share their ideas and insists with students enrolled in graduate courses. The workshop as a whole will stress becoming more aware of possibilities in the art of teaching. 
Robert M. Slabey 
En^ish Department Notre Dame, Indiana 465S6 
HISTORY 
Communications from alunud hmve been more i^entiful than usual this spring. PAUL BODY writes from the U. of Portland that he will present a paper on Nationality Rights in the Hapsburg Empire at the meeting of the Northeastern Slavic Assn. in Montreal next year. FRANK ORLANDO of Loyola in B^timore has submitted his dissertation 

on "Changing Vatican Attitudes Towards the Italian State, 1870-1920," and hopes to receive his Ph.D. in June. WILLIAM LOMBUS has been assistant to the president of Thomas More College in Covington, Ky. this past year. RICHARD DEL VECCHIO has been at Nazareth College in Rochester, N.Y. for the past few years. WILLIAM GWINN has been head of the history department there for many years. Various correspondents report that JAMES SULLIVAN is still at Chestnut Hill College in Phaadelphia and JOHN WOODS at Rosemont DANIEL GLEASON, long a stalwart member of the history department's sensational Softball and basketball teams, will go to St Thomas' U. in Fredericton, New Brunswick, next fall. HOWARD DOOLEY will begin his teaching career at Western Michigan U. 
JOHN ROSSI sent me a most informative letter some weeks ago. John as been promoted to associate professor at LaSalle College. He is moderator of the college historical society there and edits its departmental newsletter. In March he spoke at Lehigh U. on "Gladstone and the Fate of the Liberal Party in the 1870s." Several other ND graduates are also at LaSalle. One, JOSEPH O'GRADY, has been named department chairmatL He is just completing a year's leave to finish a manuscript on "The Life and Times of Edward Kiely of Virginia." He is also executive secretary of the Society of Historians of Foreign Relations and presented a paper on Austro-American relations at the last AHA meeting. ROBERT JONES and JOHN CZIRAKY are also at LaSaUe. So is ARTHUR HENNESSY, who was a member of the ND history faculty some years back. Arthur plans to seek the Democratic nomination for Congress from the 8th Congressional District of Penn­sylvania. LaSalle's history department seems to be prospering in other ways as well, with mote than 270 undergraduate majors this past year. 
Congratulations to EDWARD GIBBONS, chairman of the department at Siena College, who joined the ranks of the lawfully wedded last Christmas. RICHARD O'MALLEY of St Josei*'s College in Philadelphia was among those attending the ceremony. 
LAWRENCE BRADLEY, long assistant archivist to Rev. Thomas McAvoy and now to Rev. Thomas Blantz, has completed his dissertation and hopes to receive his Ph.D. in June. The dissertation, which involved extensive use of a computer, deals with trade between 18th century Britain and the American colonies. Larry plans to 
Professor Bernard Norling. 
incorporate it in a forthcoming book. 
On the ND history faculty LEON BERNARD has been promoted to full professor and CARL ESTABROOK to assistant professor. 
Bernard Norling 
Department of History 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
LAW SCHOOL 
Notre Dame win begin a new program of summer studies in London, for those students who wish to study abroad, but who wish to devote less than a full academic year to study abroad. The Law School's regular, yearlong program has been open to ND students, but a number of idaces in the summer program will be made available to students from other American law schools and to British law students. 
The academic program includes 15 hours of courses and lectures in subjects such as Trusts, Damages, Evidence, International Law, Criminal Law and British Land Use Systems. There will also be a series of lectures on current problems of American Constitutional Law. 
Classes will be conducted in the lecture theaters and seminar rooms of the U. of London, located in the heart of London. 
Prof. Frank E. Booker will head the program. Dean William B. Lawless and Professors Peter W. Thornton, George W. Keeton, and Roger P. Peters will also be on the summer faculty, along with English and other American law teachers. 
Prof. Roger Paul Peters wais in the hospital in South Bend in April and May, recovering from a serious cold, and from surgery. He expects to be on his feet in time to leave for England in June, to par­ticipate in the ND summer program there. Prof. Peters is retiring from the ND faculty this spring. He will begin teaching at the Southwestern Law School in Los Angeles next fall. 
Prof. MICHAEL V. McINTYRE, '57, was appointed to the faculty in May. He is now teaching at Syracuse and has taught at the U. of Wyoming. He is a California lawyer and an expert in environmental law, patent law, and natural resources. He will teach in his areas of speciality and in torts on the ND faculty. 
Chief JusUce JOHN C. MOWBRAY, '49L, of the Supreme Court of Nevada, received the Equal Justice Award of the Nevada NAACP. The award recognized Justice Mowbray's work in public-defender development, improvement of the admin­istration of justice, and diligence as a judge. He has been on the bench in Nevada since 1965. 
Dean ROBERT E. SULLIVAN '40, '46L, who taught law at ND before he became dean of the U. of Montana Law School, was appointed to the Legal Com­mittee of the Interstate Oil Compact Commission. 
HUGH F. MUNDY, '69L, has been appointed director of the new legal-aid program in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. He has been a legal-aid lawyer in Chester, Pa. 
Leonard N. Opperman of the third-year class was elected chairman of the Indiana Council of the National Council on Crime and Delinquency. He was an Indiana State senator until 1968 and remains active in Democratic Party afTaiis. The purpose of the thirty-member Indiana Council is to assist in the reduction of crime and delinquency. 
Prof. Edward F. Barrett's essay, "The Law School and Training in Trial Advocacy," is a chapter in Clinical Education and Ae taiv School of the Future, recently published by tiie U. of Chicago. 
MUSIC 
MICHAEL HENNESSEY, '66, has been ap­pointed assistant director of bands for 1970­71 at N.D. Mike is presently director of bands at Bishop Noll Institute in Ham­mond; Ind. He will rejdace JAMES PHILLIPS, '61, who wOl be on leave for the year at Northwestern Univeisity. We welcome to our ranks as alumni Sr. ROBERTIA URBAN and JOHN SWEANY. 
This year the University Concert Band, under the direction of Robert O'Brien and James PhiUips, began a new tradition. The band has found itself to be a coed organization. Girls from St Mary's have been enthusiastically welcomed by the bandsmen to break a tradition of all male participation that began in 1846. 
The band travelled more than 3,000 miles in 12 days playing 11 concerts through Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Peimsylvania, New York, Massachusetts, Maine and Montreal. 
PHYSICS 
Here are some more names and addresses 
of our illustrious Ph.D. alumni, and some 
excellent opportunities for renewing old 
acquaintances. 
BRUCE BARNABY '60 (physical electronics), wife Oo, and six children, live at 147 Monte Rey S., Los Alamos, N.M. 87544. Bruce received his B.S. degree from DePaul U. in 1951, and his PhJ>. from ND in 1960. After receiving his PhJ>., Bruce joined Eimac. Since 1967, be has been with the U. of California's Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory. 
JOHN R. ERSKINE '60 (nuclear physics), wife Diane, and six children, live at 1313 Blanchard St., Downers Grove, 
111. 60515. John received his B.S. degree from the U. of Rochester in 1953, and then spent three years in the Navy as a Lieutenant J. G. He began his graduate studies in Physics at ND in 1956, and be received his Ph.D. in 1960. From 1960 to 1962, John was a research associate and instructor at M.l.T. He left M.I.T. in 1962 to join the Argonne National Laboratory, where he is now an associate physicist 
EDWARD F. KENNEDY '60 (nuclear physics), wife Marcia, and six children, live at 21 Hazelwood Rd., Worcester, Mass. 01609. Ed received his B.S. degree from Loyola (Chicago) in 1954, and came to ND for his graduate work in physics. He received his Ph.D. in 1960, and, in the same year, joined the faculty of the College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, Mass., as an assistant professor. He was promoted to associate professor in 1963, and served as acting chairman of the department of physics from 1963 to 1964. Since 1964, Ed has served as the chairman of the depart­ment 
JOHN W. BICHARD '60 (nuclear spectroscopy), lives at 1864 Ogden Ave., Vancouver, British Columbia. Jack received his BASc degree from the U. of Toronto in 1955, and came to ND for his graduate work in Physics. He was one of the first graduate students in the then newly formed Nuclear Spectroscopy Croup, and the first to receive the PhD. degree. After receiving his degree in 1960, Jack joined the faculty of the Uni^enily of 
British Odnmbia as a lectnter. He was 
piomoted to instnictor in 1961, and to 
assistant professor in 1962. Since 1965, he 
has hdd the tank of associate professor. 
RALPH J. MCC(»INE 'S8 (physical electronics), wife Catheiine, and fonr dtfldren live at 2955 Linden Comt, Alen­town. Pa. 18183. Ralph received his KS. degree from the VS. Naval Academy in 1947, and his MS. degree £rom Sterens Institute of Techndogy in 1952. He is supervisor of semicondnctor materials at Bdl Telephone Labs in ADentown. Ralph manages to return to ND lather frequently on recruituig trips for Bdl Labs. (I think he really enjoys visiting us.) 
Robert L. Anthony 
Department of Physics 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
SOCIOLOGY Mri ANTHROPOLOGY 
Student involvement in the governance of the university has become a commonplace issue on many campuses, the precise qnalily of involvement and the negotiability of die issue varying from one school to another. The department, after months of ddnte, voted to giant studentsrepresentation on an but one (Tenure, Promotions and Appointments) of its standing conmuttees. This reorganizatioii, effectrre the outset of the current semester, will be evaluated by a Joint faculty-student team at the end of a one-year trial period. Graduate students bad beenrepresented on the Graduate Cur­riculimi Committee for almost a year when the issue of broaderrepresentation came before the department 
Department fortunes relative to the ddo Valley Sodolo^cal Sodety contiinie to run hi ^ The society's 1967 meeting, generally conceded to have been among the most soccrasfid in recent memory, was hosted hjr ND. Two years later, in Indianapdis, Dr. D'ANTONIO's presdential address provided a provocative dimax to the OVSS's joint meeting with the Midwest Sociological Sodety. At this year's meeting ND entries almost swept dean the prizes awarded in the annual OVSS student paper competition. First prize for papers submitted by graduate students went to MIKE MCKEE, a third-year NDEA Fdlow. Jorge Bustamante, who came to us ftom Mexico's National University on a Ford Fdlowsbip, entered a paper which finisbed in a three-way tie for second prize, ii4iile Yale-bound Gary Gereffi, an outstanding senior major, gained top honor for papers in the undergraduate competition. 
LARRY HONG and IRA HUTCHISCW have had tbdr dissertations approved, and should recdve their doctorates at the June commencement Larry, the original Hong Kong strong-boy, is teaching at Marquette. Ira win join the staff at Florida State U. this faU, and wiU thus become a coDeagne of JIM FENDRICH. An article co-authored by Jim, onreturning Mack servicemen, appeared in the March, 1970 issue of Trans-Action. 
Erratiun: Our previous column aimouiiced that Professor D'Antonio accepted a one-year appointment as executive secretary of the Sodety for the Scientific Study of Religion. The term of office is reaDy indetermiiute. 
Robert H. VasoH Department of Sociology and Anthropidoiy Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

CLUBS 


CND Mght featured in many areas 
Shown at Chicago's UND Night dinner in the grand ballroom of the Sherman House 
are: (I to r) Ken Schuster '49, retiring president; Ed Moran '34, Man of the Year; 
George Gobel, recipient oj the "Decency in Entertainment" award; Tom Foran, US. 
Attorney jor Northern Illinois, featured speaker; Pat Montroy '53, incoming president; 
and Rev. John Walsh CSC, Vice President of Academic Affairs. 
New Orleans Club officers gathered with a good crowd to hear Coach Tom Pagna. Pictured (I to r) are Pat Booker, Joe Drolla, Bob Johnston and Les Bourdeaux. 
BOSTON 

The annual business meeting was held in April and the current slate of officers was re-elected for another year. BOB OLSEN '70 said a few words and com­mented on the filmed highlights of the 1969 football season. We wish BOB luck upon his debut with the Boston Patriots this coming fall. JOE O'NEILL '67 handled the arrangements on this event 
DON COTE '52 and his committee are busy on plans for the annual golf outing at Wallaston Country Club June 4. 
UND Night at the Pops is scheduled for June 19. JAY CURLY '53 and his committee expect a large turnout again this year. 
Mike O'Toole '55 
BUFFALO 

March 18 our general election meeting was held and a new slate of officers and directors was voted in. President-elect HENRY BURNS Jr. '62 expressed his desire to continue the fine job that BiU Kane '59 had done in 1969-70 and thanked the other new officers: DANIEL BRICK '65, vice-president; MARV LAHOOD '58, secretary; PATRICK RYAN '67, treasurer; WILLIAM O'CON­NOR "64, financial secretary. Newly elected directors Daniel Brick, Patrick 
Ryan, EDWARD PIERVALLO, JOSEPH McMAHON were appointed for three-year terms. 
RICHARD WAGNER announced that the retreat scheduled for the week ending March 20-22 at the St. Columban's Retreat Home, Derby, New York, already had 15 reservations with many more expected. 
UND Night at the Hearthstone Manor, Cheektowaga, N.Y., was M.C.'d by Dr. 
J. DAVID VALAIK. Bill Kane's swan song was truly an indication of complete dedication and sacrifice for the betterment of our club over the past year. Our Junior of the Year Award was won by Robert Encel of Kenmore East High School. 
JACK ENDERS '53, Man of the Year in 1968, was very proud to present this year's ND Man of the "Year Award to Richard C; Wagner '53. Dick's continuous 100 percent effort for all Notre Dame activities in the Buffalo area 

Dr. Arthur Hoffman (left) and Ft. Wayne Club president Phil Clemens congratulate Man of the Year Stephen A. Steckbeek at UND Night. 
was deserving of this award. 
The keynote address of the evening was made by our guest of honor JAMES COONEY. "Notre Dame Today" was a stimulating account of our rich history and founding by Father Sorin. 
John A. Allen '56 
CHICAGO 
PATRICK J. MONTROY '53 was elected president of the club, the University's largest, at the recent UND night dinner. He will coordinate alumni activities for more than 4,000 Chicagoland alumni. A sales representative of M.C.A. Sign Co., Montroy lives at 815 Fair Oaks in Oak Park. 
CHARLES V. FALKENBERG Jr. '52, a loop attorney, was elected first vice-president. Falkenberg lives at 1514 Norman Dr., Palatine. THOMAS F. CAREY '55, Chicago attorney, was elected second vice-president. He lives at 6540 Minetonka Ave. 
WILLIAM E. CAHILL Jr., who lives at 6323 N. Knox Ave., was elected secretary. A 1958 graduate, he operates Cahill Bros. Realtors at 5501 S. Ashland Ave. 
JOSEPH L. KIGALI Jr. '51 was re-elected treasurer. Kigali, a sales representative for Schwarz Paper Co., lives at 628 
S. Wesley Ave., Oak Park. William E. Cahill '58 
CXEVELAND 
Dec. 8 we had our annual Rockne awards dinner where we present plaques to 11 boys in the area that we study and conclude represent Cleveland's finest football talent. Perennial Chairman JIM KODGEKS '49 again put together a fine program, and we were fortunate in having Coach Mike Stock here to take a pretty good look at the award recipients. Hats off to Chairman Kodgers and his co-chairmen KEN LIPINSKI '65 and TOM KOSTELNIK '65, who worked very hard to make the affair a success. 
Dec. 28 President THOMAS COKRIGAN and his gracious wife, Peggy, hosted a Christmas party for the membership. 
On the weekend of Feb. 13, Chairman GEORGE KERVER '22 ran our local retreat out at St. Stanislaus Retreat House. 
March 1 we concluded our local scholar­ship program drive. We have had a kind of capsule SUMMA campaign locally now for the last few years with DICK VAN AUKEN '57 and GEORGE DURKIN '56 putting the program together. Patrick J. Cannon '55 
DAYTON-SPRINGnELD 
Based upon the encouraging return of data sheets from club members, the executive committee of the club has approved publication of a local ND club directory containing business and personal informa­tion supplied by the members. The directory will be published and distributed to club members this summer. 
Film highlights of the 1969 football season—including the Cotton Bowl—were shown to the members May 3. As a goodwill gesture and to foster interest in ND, the film was made available for showing at three parishes located in Dayton, Shawen Acres Children's Home and St. Joseph's Home for Children. A special showing was also arranged for the 
U. of Dayton football team. UND night was combined with the club's annual Communion dinner May 16 at the U. of Dayton's Kennedy Union. A panel of three speakers supplied by ND —a priest, an admim'strator and a stu­dent—discussed the topic "Notre Dame in the '70's." As part of the evening's ceremonies, special awards were presented to RON HENNE and JIM BRITT in recognition of their outstanding efforts in leading the Dayton-Springfield club to the No. 1 position in the SUMMA drive in terms of percentage over goal. A cocktail party for members and their wives was held out of doors on the lawn of PAUL LAMMERS, 258 W. Schantz. The club's annual golf outing-picm'c will be held at Walnut Grove Country Club and is tentatively scheduled for the last week of August or the first week of September. Utilizing last year's format, a steak-fry picnic will follow the rounds of golf. Election of new officers for the 1970-71 term will be held at the picnic. The club's executive committee has authorized creation of a committee to study the existing by-laws of the club. 
The club recently made a contribution on behalf of the members to the "Students for Biafran Relief." This organization 
was formed by an ND student and 
deserves support from the individual 
members of the club. 
William H. Seall '68L 
DEARBORN 
The club held its bi-annual elections in March and elected new officers as follows: BILL DeCRICK '53, president; DON MULLANEY '52, vice-president-treasurer; MIKE WILLIAMS '66, secretary. In addiUon, JOHN FISH Jr. '54, JOE BYRNE '52 and BOB MISSEL '58 were elected to three-year memberships on the board of directors. 
The club held its annual Communion dinner May 24 with a private Mass and steak dinner for members and their families. Charlie Kitz '58 was the repeat chairman and again arranged an excellent evening of entertainment for the entire family. 
June 21 is the date for the upcoming family picnic. Plans are in progress for another day of fun for the members and their families. Chairman GERRY GASS '48 is working out ways for the fathers to compete effectively against their sons in the afternoon Softball game. Also included in the day's activities are a husband-wife egg toss and assorted games for the children. 
The club is seeking to contact new alumni in the Detroit/Dearborn area. Anyone interested in joining in the fun may contact Mike WUUams at 886-9571. 
J. Michael Williams '66 
DECATUR 
In the writer's absence, our UND night report is by the ghost and host for the evemng, JOHN DUNN '58, LLB '61. Stimulated by last year's panel of students, alumni crowded opulent facilities to interrogate this year's panel. TOM SULLIVAN, managing editor of the ALUMNUS, led off by introducing two seniors. Bill Locke and John Zimmerman. After their brief presentation, questions mushroomed beyond the allotted hour of good health. A more durable group adjourned to Dunn's house of hospitality. 
Don't miss our golf outing June 16. 
Steve Graliker '42 
DELAWARE 
Club ofiicers for 1970 are: President, JIM VACHRIS; Vice-President, LEX PETRIL­LO; Treasurer, DENNY PETRILLO; Secretary, GERRY TRAVIS. 
Jim Vachris announced that the Wilmington Area SUMMA goal had been exceeded and expressed his appreciation for the work of AL PAVLIC '66, Lex Petrillo, PAUL CLEMENS and others who helped make SUMMA a successful drive. A wrap-up committee has been formed to finalize SUMMA. 
Present plans for the year include an alumni-student Softball game in June; a family picnic in August; bus trip to ND-Navy game Oct. 31; alumni-student Commum'on Renewal Evening Mass during the Christmas holidays; club-sponsored camping trip for local underprivileged children May 16. 
Gerry Travis '54 
DENVER 
Officers for the coming year were 
announced as follows: VINCENT J. 
DUNCAN, president; DONALD R. KLEE, 
vice-president; NICK MULLER, 
secretary; RICHARD DAMM, treasurer. 
Directors elected are VINCENT J. 
DUNCAN, JAMES R. HILGER Jr.. RICK 
BRUNO, CARL EIBERGER, EDWARD 
MAHONEY and GERALD J. SMITH. 
In February the club chartered a bus to 
the ND-Air Force Academy hockey 
game and afterwards celebrated the victory 
at the Air Force Academy Officers 
Club. Chairman was Jim Hilger. 
Chairmen of UND night were Rick Bruno 
and Ed Mahoney. Tom Pagna of ND 
was the speaker. James R. Hilger Jr. 
received the Man of the Year award. 
Hilger is an accoimt executive with 
Shearson Hammill and Co. He is oidy the 
ninth person to receive the award in the 
past 26 years. The selection of Jim Queen 
of Mullen High School to receive a 
scholarship to the University was also 
announced. 
On May 24 the club had a family 
Communion breakfast after Mass at SL 
Thomas Seminary. Chairman was TOM 
GUTRICH. Coming events are a family 
picnic at the Crestmoor Club in July 
and a freshman class orientation party. 
James R. Hilger '56 
DETROIT 
JAMES N. MOTSCHALL '39, 31 Kirby 
Court, Grosse Pointe Farms, has received 
the "Man of the Year" award. Presenta­
tion was made at the club's recent UND 
night held at the Raleigh House in 
Southfield. 
Mr. Motschall is owner of the James 
Motschall Printing Co., 10090 W. Chicago, 
Detroit. A director and past president of 
the club, he was honored for many years 
of outstanding service to the club 
and the University. 
Currently he is serving both as class president and class agent In the latter post he helps coordinate fund-raising among his class for the ND Foundation. Mr. Motschall also has assisted in student recruitment for the University and has directed many projects for the local club including its annual Manresa retreat 
New ofiicers are ROBERT W. BOGG, president; EDWARD A. BRACKEN Jr., first vice-president; TERRENCE E. KEATING, second vice-president; ARTHUR W. SHANNON, secretary; and GARY W. DILLON, treasurer. 
The club has 1400 members in the metro­politan Detroit area. Arthur W. Shannon '59 
INDIANAPOLIS 
UND night was held April 3 in the ballroom of the Indianapolis Hilton and 319 
people thorou^ly enjoyed the evening. 
FATHER HESBURGH was our honored guest speaker and both archbishops from Indianapolis were in attendance. DON STUHLDREHER '57 served as general chairman of this very successfid event. He was ably assisted by HUGH McGOWAN '66, BOB KESSING '49, BOB KANE '50, PAT QUINN '65 and toastmaster BILL STUHLDREHER '53. 
The Indianapolis Man of the Year award was presented to BILL KENNEDY '42. Congratulations, Bill, on receiving this coveted honor. 
TOM O'BRIEN '53 assumes the presi­
dency of the club because of his election in 1969. He will be ably assisted by JOE DeSAUTELS '53 as vice-president. Dr. JIM CROSSIN '60 as secretary, and DICK OWENS '42 as Ueasurer. The two new directors elected to serve for a three-year term were FRANK FOX '42 and GENE WITCHGER '35. FRANCIS QUINN '42 was elected as president-elect and will automatically succeed Tom O'Brien in April of '71. 
Lawrence A. O'Connor Jr. '63 

ERIE UND night was held April II at the Ramada Inn banquet rooms. Our campus representative was Edward "Moose" Krause. Joseph SPAK was this year's chairman for the affair. 
For the second year, we honored the Outstanding Junior in the Erie area, Ronald Essigmann from Erie East High School. Also we honored the Outstanding Grade School football player in Erie «4io was Pat Cuneo from St. John the Baptist School. 
Because of the great talent in high school football in the Erie area, we honored Mike Bartozek from McDowell High School as Lineman of the Year and Edward Woodard of Erie East as the outstanding Back of the Year. 
The club this year honored ROBERT A. BRABENDER as its Man of the Year. Mr. Brabender is one of Erie's most active ND alumni. 
Leo J. Bruggner Jr. '61 

FAIRFIELD COUNTY The Belle Haven Club in Greewich, Conn., was the scene May 2 for the UND dinner dance. BILL REIDY '53, BILL HARRINGTON '48, and DON LEIS '44 were in charge of all the excellent arrangements. 
Rev. Charles F. Sheedy CSC talked on student life on the ND campus today. 
The new club oflScers for 1970-71 were named with G. SARSFIELD FORD '55, president; PETER M. HEARDEN '37, first vice-president; wnUam E. Reidy, second vice-president; ROBERT A. SINGE­WALD '64, secretary; and GEORGE H. BURNS '48, was reelected treasurer. 
The highlight of the evening was the naming of Hon. JAMES R MURPHY '22 of Bridgeport, Conn., ND Man of the Year. Also JOHN M. WILSON '11 of Rowayton, Conn., received the Senior Alimmus Honorium. 
Peter M. Hearden '37 

FORT WAYNE The club held its UND night banquet April 16 at the Sheraton Motor HoteL The ND Man of the Year award was presented to STEPHEN A. STECKBECK by last year's recipient. Dr. ARTHUR HOFFMAN and PHIL CLEMENS, club president Steve is a 1954 graduate and is preddent of the Ream-Steckbeck Co. 
In addition to the above award, Michael Rooney received a new honor being given to the "Outstanding High School Jimior of the Year." Michael is a junior at Bishop Dwenger. To conclude the formal program, a discussion of past, present, and future at ND was given by student Joe White; Wayne Echelberger Jr., associate professor of civil engineering at ND, and Rev. James Shilts, assistant 
professor and rector. 
Arthur H. Witucki '57 
JERSEY SHORE 
President ROBERT GIUNCO, '57, was 

installed for the '70-'71 year at the club's 
annual UND night in early April. The 
guest speaker for the night was Law 
School Dean WiUiam B. Lawless. 
Honored as the ND Man of the Year was 
the Honorable Fredrick Lacey, U.S. 
Attorney for New Jersey. 

Other club officers for the coming year 
are JOHN B. WHITE •4S-'48, vice-
president; JOHN F. BOGAN '55, treasurer, 
and CHARLES KELLER '54, secretary. 
Serving three-year terms on the board 
of directors wiU be JOHN P. KEEGAN 
'61 and JOSEPH A. McGOWAN III '64. 
Retiring President CHARLES J. HESSE 
III '57 served as the UND ni^t chair­
man and deserves the thanks of the dub 
for arranging one of the best diiuers 
in years. 
As part of his idanning for the new year. President Bob is investigating a package bus trip to the Navy game in Philadelphia and will reinstate the very successful informal meetings of officers, directors and members at dinners spaced throu^out the year to discuss dub plans and to promote fellowship. 
The club's official mailing address is 
Box 286, Asbuiy Park, NJ. 07712. 
Chariie KeUer '54 
KANSAS CITY UND night saw over 300 alumni, family and friends listen to guest speaker Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, President of the University, discuss change in contemporary sodety, the concern of today's youth and the acceptance of both. C. CRAIG WHITAKER '49 acted as host to Father Hesburgh and as master of ceremonies for the evening's activities. DENNIS HOGERTY '67, performed an excellent job as dinner chairman. 
Outgoing president BILL UNGASHICK, '43, presented the Man of the Year award to JIM DeCOURSEY '54, the Kansas State Lieutenant Governor. 
New dub officers were also annoimced. JOHN DAW '52 is the new president; JOHN H. WHITAKER '61 and BER­NARD D. CRAIG Jr. '61 are vice-presidents, and ART DONNELLY '58 and EARL HOGAN '57 are secretary and treasurer, respectively. 
Bernard D. Craig Jr. '61 
KENTUCKY April 29 the aimual spring business meeting was held. Highli^ted by the dection of officers and the Notre Dame '69 football season film, the meeting was a great success. 
The officers dected were: President, GERRY BOLAND '63, 531 Garden Dr., Louisville, Ky. 40206; first vice-president, RUSS RAQUE '60, 309 Oxfordshire Lane, Louisville, Ky. 40222; second vice-president, DON MOSER, 32 HiD Top Rd., New Albany, Ind.; treasurer, STEVE RICKERT '63, 4107 Winchester Rd., LouisviUe, Ky. 40207; secretary. MIKE CASPER '64, 2005 Ben AU Rd., Louis­ville, Ky. 40223. Also, we wish to wdcome the newly elected team of PAT DUFFY and BILL REISERT ID to our board of directors, and good luck to BILL SHERMAN, the board's new 

chairman. 
It was also noted at this meeting that on 

Aug. 8 we will again have a booth at 
the St. Joseph's Orphans' picnic, and Dr. 
LEO REHRMAN, who is chairman of 
our annual outing this year, discussed the 
Aug. 4 outing. 
Congratulations for a job well done goes 

to BILL SHERMAN, BILL HECK, 
ROGER HUTER, Gerry Boland, JIM 
REMMERS, and BILL REISERT for their 
efforts as recruiters for ND. These men 
have done a good job in recruiting the 
top high schoolers in this area. Our 
scholarship winners this year were: 
Mike Phillips, Bishop David H.S. and 
Julius Gavin, St Pius X 
The club also welcomes RICH KOVALIK as a new member. 
Mike Casper '64 
LANSING UND night was observed by the club March 30 at the Knights of Columbus hall. Approximately 45 members and guests attended. A discussion-panel team led by Prof. Harry Bender discussed the topic "Notre Dame and the Seventies." 
The club board of directors met April 20 to plan the club activities for the coining year. The high point of the year will be the student-alumni party Oct 10 at the Jack Tar Hotel, the eve of the ND-MSU game. We hope our friends will join us again this year to "get up" for the big game. 
Bill Dotterweich '58 
LOS ANGELES UND night in Los Angeles was certainly unique for the '70's. Young David Gold, of Culver City High School, was the first recipient of the "Outstanding Junior Award" from the club's JACK STEWART '59, the outgoing president Stewart also introduced the club's new officers. 
Prof. JACK GOURMAN '49, received rousing api^ause for the work he and his committee did in screening over 130 student nominees to select the top junior of the year. LARRY KERWIN '58, chairman for the event also received plaudits for organizing an evening high-lifted by speakers from the campus: Rev. EDGAR J. WHELAN CSC '49, Dr. Donald P. Kommers, Dept of Government and Intemation^ Studies, and Deiuis J. Oark, who represented the students. 
Hosea M. Alexander Sr. '62 
McHENRY COUNTY The ND club scheduled its observance of UND night for May 26 with a dinner party at Crystal Lake Country Club. President JOHN ORSO '50 arranged for James Cooney, executive secretary of the Alunmi Association, to be prindpal speaker. 
The dub's "Man of the Year" award was given to GEORGE COSTELLO '40 of Crystal Lake. George is a partner in the realty firm of Essex & COstello in Crystal Lake. The award was presented by Judge WILLIAM M. CARROLL '15 of Woodstock, who was redpient of the 1969 award. DONALD C. FREUND '55 was chairman of the event and was assisted by the present officers and direc­tors: JOHN CORRIGAN '35, CLAIR LAMBERT '43, and TOM HARDING '65. 
Joe Conerty '44 
MID-HUDSON 
Recent highh'^ts of the club centered 
around two events. 
The first of these was on April 2 and 3 when the ND rowing team was in Pough­keepsie to race Marist College. The team, consisting of a fine group of young gentlemen and one giri, took Poughkeepsie by storm and received much favorable publicity in the local newspaper. On the evening preceding the race, the club sponsored a dinner for the team at Dr. Bud Pletcher's home. Although they lost the race to Marist, they still upheld the honor and reputation of ND by their gentlemanly and ladylike conduct 
The other event was UND m'ght held April 11, at the Dutchess Golf and Country Club. The guest speaker was Jim Cooney, Alumni Secretary, who spoke of the ND of today and the future. 
The Mid-Hudson ND "Man of the Year" award was also presented. That award went to Don Reynolds who as chairman of the local SUMMA drive succeeded in far exceeding the quota set for our area. A fine job by Don who truly deserves the award. 
A. F. Salansky '57 
MUSKEGON 
UND night was observed by the club with approximately SO in attendance at the Black Angus Restaurant in Muskegon. STAN TYLER did a supreme job in setting up the affair and making the arrangements. The alumtii and friends heard the speakers from the University sail into the seventies and predict greater and better things for alma mater. 
Money man BILL TARDANI, our faithful club treasurer, handed the award of a $500 scholarship to Mike Dault, a Muskegon Catholic Central senior, who is enrolling at the University this fall. 
Our Muskegon Chronicle gave us the usually fine cooperation in publicizing the affair. 
Leo L. Linck '43 
NEW ORLEANS 
UND m'ght was held April 2 at the Petro­leum Club of New Orleans. TOM PAGNA, featured speaker of the evening, noticeably avoided any predictions regarding the 1970 football season, par­ticularly the Nov. 21 game with LSU. 
The club selected ED SPORL '34 Man of the Year. The entire evening was a tremendous success due to the planning and hard work of our president, PAT BOOKER '62. Thanks, Pat! 
Joe Drolla Jr. '63 
NEW YORK 
The highlight of the club year, UND night, was held May 15 at a dinner and dance at the Garden City Hotel. The University was represented by the Rev. John E. WALSH CSC, vice-president of academic affairs. JOHN I. McNAMARA '31 received the club's Man of the Year award, and EDWARD B. FITZPATRICK Jr. '54 received a plaque for his service on the National Alumni Board. Both men have served ND and the club in various 
capacities for many years. 
The club continued its support for ND's 
council for the Intematioiud Lay 
Apostolate (CILA). For fire years, ND 
students and graduates have lived and 
worked in Harlem neighboihoods providing 
teaching, recreation, and drug pre­
vention services. 
ND's Concert Band made a very 
successful visit to Uniondale, Long Island, 
April 2. The club tendered a reception 
for the band members after the conceit. 
The club held its annual retreat at 
the St. Ignatius Retreat House in Man­
hasset. Long Island, April 30 to May 3. 
The recruiting committee, headed by TONY EARLEY '47, held a successful ND Information Night for interested hi ^ school juniors and seniors accepted by the University. The club will be running two Freshman Send-Ofls this year for incoming freshmen and their parents with JAMES 
V. GIBBONS representing ND. The first will be at the Westchester Country Club August 25; and the second at the Garden City Hotel August 26. 
Planning is under way for our trip to Philadelphia for the Navy football game October 31. Recently elected oflBcers are JAMES F. SLATTERY '50, president; JOHN L. NANOVIC '30, vice-president; DEON SUTTON '31, vice-piesidettt; PAUL T. SMITH '60, secretary; FRANK 
J. REIDY '55, treasurer. 
Paul T. Smith '60 
NORTH FLORIDA 
The club, headquartered in the Jacksonville area, recently elected a new slate of offi­cers: MICHAEL ZAMBETTI '62, president; TOM BAUMER '61, vice-president; RAPHAEL M. KELLY '61, secretary; TIMOTHY LYNCH '61, treasurer. Tlie immediate objective of the dub is to reorganize in order to encourage more active participation on the part of all club members. 
March 7, a highly successful cocktail party attended by 65 alumni and wives and hosted by Mr. and Mrs. JOHN TUERK, ushered in the new admimstration. Other upcoming social events include UND night in May, club picnic in June, and a golf outing in July. Several other events ate slated for later in the year. 
The club's business meetings are held in the plush conference room of the local Anheuser-Busch plant JOHN MUELLER '47, plant manager, supplies us with all the beer we can drink which makes for very enjoyable meetings. 
We think the North Florida Qub is finally headed in the right direction. 
Raphael "Ray" Kelly '6t 
OHIO VALLEY 
April 1 the club held a dinner meeting at Figaretti's Restaurant in Elm Grove, Wheeling, W.Va., to celebrate UND ni^ t The three guest speakers from ND repre­senting administration, facidty and students, were Rev. Thomas R Blantz CSC, Prof. Kenneth Feathetstone, and RICHARD L. LIBOWITZ 70. 
BILL BUCH '60, president, introduced the guest speakers, each of whom gave an account of changes taking place at ND in different fields. Fr. Blantz explained that now ND students are more concerned about their fellow man and his environ­
ment. Some anend idigioiB dhriiwiuii sroupft and otbeis imliiifl diUdreii in South Bend. Plot Feadientone ooniiasted die old and new metbodi of teadinc and Did: Ubowilz eqWned the new role of the student in a less icstrained or "boxed-in" emiiuument. He also fiplainrd the proposed dnnodlor-fRadent administiation and advocated the dectioa of Dr. Willis Nottinc as president and Rev. THEODORE M. HESBURGH "38 as chancellor. 
After the prepared veeches the meeting was turned over to a question and answer period. Hie ahmui piaent qoestioiied the speakers about vaiiois dianies taking place at ND and because of the adverse puMidty given to the sdiool by recent actions, some of the remaiks were an attack on personalities rather than on policies and issues. For this the ND Club is Sony. If we were as wdl prepared as our guests we could have leanaed first hand more about the Pornography Conference, the Moratorium Observance or the Dow Chemical Sit-in by one of the participants. 
The guest speidwis were "impressed" (not favoiaMy) by the questions and in spite of "grapevine reports" that they "escaped with their fives" the meeting ended cordially. We hope the report of this meeting win result in other spMkeis being sent to our ND Club. 
Bm Mitsch '33 
OMAHA The dub had a dinner honoring ND's Frank Lnhy as part of the festivities for the UND lui^t The dfamer was hdd Apia 2 and was wdl attended. People came from as far away as Chicago and Kansas City. In aildition to receiving the dub's "Man of the Year" award. Frank Leahy was also presented a personal dtation from President Nixon. Frank's acceptance speedi will long be remembered by die people attending. 
The new officers of the Omaha organiza­tion were presented at the dinner and they are as follows: BOB BROWN, president; JIM BEMIS, vice-president; JACK LEE, second vice-piesidem; MIKE DUGAN, treasuren SKIP CKEEFE, secretary. Hie outgoing president. JOHN HUGHES, provided the Omaha organization with one of its finest yean. 
The dub is plaiming a spring gdf tour­nament to be hdd at the Strategic Air Command's gdf coune. Plans are also under way for the aimual freshman send-off for the next school season. 
Denis "Skip" CKeefe m '69 
PEORIA An extiemdy active and rewarding spring calendar of events was hi^^ilighted by the awarding of the ND Man of the Year plaque to JIM McCMilB, who has been veiy active in the CIC and Broadway Theatre League as wdl as dub activities. The award was presented at our annual UND ni^ dinner iriudi was addressed by JIM COONEY at die Peoria Country Chib. April 30. 
On Mardi 14 die dub hdd its first aimual distinguished speaken ni^t and our featured guest was Rev. Jim BurtdiadI CSC. head of die ND theology depaitinent Ibere was a dinner beforehand and a reception afterward. The event drew 175 satisfied and stimn­
lated listeners. The subject was "Is God Dead on Campus?" and the message was thai Christ is very alive and meaningful at ND though formal religious practices are in a state of decline quantitatively. 
Our annual St. Pat's day dinner dance was, as usual, the social highlight of the club year. Held at the Illinois Valley Yacht Club, the occasion drew forty couples. Irish songs were sung, jigs danced and the dew off the shamrocks was downed. 
Mike Ryan '64 
PHILADELPHIA 

The UND night was held May 8 at the Holiday Inn. The cocktail party and dancing were enjoyed by all who attended. 
Congratulations to Bill Clark, captain of ND's 1964 cross-country team. Bill received the Frank Percival award as the Middle Atlantic AAU's outstanding track athlete for 1970. 
Preparations are under way for a gala weekend hosting the ND-Navy football game. The Philadelphia Club is endeavor­ing to make the Oct. 31 weekend a memorable one for all. 
F. Carver '64 
PITTSBURGH 

UND night was celebrated for the 47th year March 31. Pittsburgh alumni gath­ered in the William Penn Hotel for cocktails and dinner, followed by an entertaining program. Our chaplain. Rev. THOMAS M. KIRBV '52, gave the invocation and blessing before dinner. After dinner. President FRANK F. CONTE, as toastmaster, presented the "Man of the Year" award to WILLIAM E. COTTER Jr. Bill Cotter spoke warmly and affectionately about ND, and reminded us that his dad, William Cotter Sr. (now deceased), loved the University also —was in fact practically raised there as an orphan. Both Bill and his father have been national president of the Alumni Association. Bill has done more than his share for SUMMA and we felt honored to have him as our Notre Dame Man of the Year. The guest speaker, Ara Parseghian, delighted us with his humorous accounts of happenings throughout the football season of 1969. PETER J. FLAHERTY '51, mayor of Pittsburgh, congratulated Mr. Cotter, and extended greetings to Parseghian, and told a few funny incidents about the Texas-ND bowl game. JAMES I. SMITH 111 '53, vice-president, did most of the planning and organizing of this memorable evening. Jim did a beautiful job and we all thank him. 
Bill Gompers '48 
ROCKFORD 

UND night was held April 8. Speakers were Philip J. Faccenda, special assistant to the president of the University, and Brian Duncan '71. At thai time ROBERT 
E. DOWNER '53 received the Man of the Year award. 

A family picnic is tentatively planned for June or July. Following that, there will be the stag golf outing Aug. 13. We are tentatively planning to attend the ND-Northwestern game as a group on Sept. 19. 
Roy Pearse '57 
ROME 
Christian Crusaders JIM and Marian 
ARMSTRONG, backed by Lieutenants 

Prof. RUFUS and Beryl RAUGH, spir­
itually supported by Grand Chaplains Frs. 
CHARLES McCARRAGHER CSC and 

LOUIS THORNTON CSC, marched (by 
air and bus) the ND Rome Escapader 

Pilgrims into Holy Week Rome to the count 
of circa 150 pious alumni and friends. 

Efficient professional guidance was sup­
plied by DICK SMALL '51 and the staff 
of his travel organization of Chicago, 

Alumni Holidays, Inc. His staff included 
his brother BILL '40 and wife. Along 

for complete family atmosphere was their 
mother, Mrs. Joseph Small. 

Unable to list here the names of all the 
NDers aboard, suffice it to report that we 

met them at sweet 6 a.m. at the airport 
and witnessed their penitential patience 

as it was announced that their hotel would 
not be available until noon. To boot, 
the hotel joined all hotels Good Friday 
on a Happy Easter strike. But our 
Fighting Irish were very peaceful and 
waltzed into the spirit of Self-Service 
a la Romana. 

Unprecedented in my 16 years in Rome: 
At the papal audience of Holy Wednesday, 
in the presence of 25,000, PAUL VI '60 
addressed the ND group in St. Peter's 
saying, "Welcome, welcome to our friends 
from the U. of Notre Dame. And when 
you return home, give my greetings 
to Father Hesburgh." 

On the calloused heels of Armstrong's army, these faithful from ND: Parents of JULES AUGSDORFER '57, MIKE DAUGHERTY '62, JACK BREEN '33 and wife, parents of TERRANCE '63 and JOHN DESMOND '67, Fr. BOB BENNETT CSC '61, Dr. EDWARD BERNARD ex '37, brother of Fr. GEORGE BERNARD CSC with wife and daughter, Ellen, SMC 71, oarents of GARY HEDEGER '66 with friends of ED STEPHAN, chairman of ND board, CHARLES SILIO '65 MS '67 PhD '70 and wife SMC '65. Last but never least, guitarist-lay preacher for US Air Force Chaplains' Lay Witness program, JOHN LAUGHLIN '48 managing editor of Campus Call—OSV, former managing editor of ALUMNUS. 
Distinguished visitor: Dr. Werner Baum, pres. U. of Rhode Island to witness URI pennant on ND Roman walls along with 250 others. 
Papal Point: Paul VI holds public audience each Wednesday at II a.m. Tickets not required. Tickets for preferred places available at: Audience Office, North American College, Via DeU'Umilla '30. Papal appearance also each Sunday noon at window in St. Peter's Square. 
ND Hospitality: We are open daily week­days from noon to nine. Largo Brancaccio 82 near Rail-Air Terminal. Tel: 
730.002. Welcome! Vince McAloon '34 
SPOKANE 
UND night was observed by the club April 6 at Spokane House on Sunset Highway. Club members, wives, friends, parents of some of the ten young men from Spokane now at the University, and alumni of Portland U. and St Mary's College made up the convivial gathering. 
Guest speaker was W. JEROME KANE '38, Alumni Association vice-president and the association's representative for this 

part of the country. His talk did much 
to smooth the fears of some of those 
who had not grasped the over-all 
picture of the campus today. 
The Man-of-the-Year scroll was awarded 

to Sister MARY MICHELLE HOLLAND, 
FCSP '62, for "her capable and under­
standing discharge of her duties as 
Supervisor of the teaching members of her 
Order and for her constant loyalty to 
Our Lady of the Golden Dome." 
In the absence of President JOHN G. HESKETT '63 by reason of a business emergency, Vice-President DAVID G. BATTLE '62 was toastmaster. 
A steak-fry for present and prospective students, with club members as hosts, is under consideration for some time this summer. 
Joe Walsh '14 
ST. LOUIS 
With snow covering the green stripe painted down the center of Olive St., bands and bagpipers and floats and dignitaries "carried the green" March 17 past the "Irish" Pavilion in downtown St. Louis as the city saw its first St. Pat's Day parade in many a year. Parade Chairman JOE McGLYNN '55, spent months arranging the event, which is now expected to become an annual occurrence. Festivities continued that night at the annual dance in the Gold Room of the Sheraton-Jefferson Hotel, with proceeds benefiting the club's scholarship fund. Joe received well-deserved special recognition at UND night May 2 for his highly successful efforts. 
Our UND night was a memorable one at the Cheshire Inn as sports editor BOB BURNES presided and "LEFTY" SMITH, ND hockey coach, delivered an address much enjoyed by the many hockey fans present. We're looking forward to the scheduling of a St. Louis U­ND hockey game in the not-too-distant future. DICK ASH '54 deserves credit for the event, which capped a very successful year as club president. Awards given that night included Man of the Year to GENE FEHLIG '43, Outstanding High School Junior to Wayne Healer from McBride and the club's ND scholarship to Daniel Tierney from St. Mary's. 
New officers for the coming year are ROBERT E. GLYNN '51, president; PAUL J. GUND '63, secretary; RICHARD 
J. CONNORS Jr. '63, treasurer, and RONALD J. SZWEDA '61, JOHN S. POELKER '64, and WILLIAM L. OTTEN '62, vice-presidents. One-fourth of the club's board was elected for a '70-'74 term, and includes J. DENIS O'TOOLE '66, HAROLD OTT '55, JOHN R. POWERS Jr. '53, and Ronald J. Szweda '61. 
A new club roster was published in April, which should benefit activities in the coming year. My best wishes to Paul Gund, who has inherited this job, and may you never find yourself out of town on deadline day. 
Robert J. Hellrung '63 
TERRE HAUTE 
The club of Terre Haute celebrated UND night April 20 with a cocktail party and dinner in the Aero Club of the Terre Haute House. The affair was a great success; club members, wives, families and 
guests turned out in force to enjoy 
the evening. 
FoUowing the dinner MIKE KEARNS presented the "Notre Dame Man of the Year" award to the parents of JOHN CHRISTEN. John's unUmely death last fall was a great loss to the club. He was in his second year as club president. Mr. and Mrs. Fred Christen came to the UND Night from Decatur, Ind., to accept the award posthumously for their son. The program for the evening was handled by Rev. JERRY WILSON CSC, vice-president and director of business affairs for the University. . . . Joseph Mulligan, assistant director of admis­sions, and Ed Davey, student from ND. The topic was "Student Life Today and Requirements for Admission," after which the trio answered questions from the audience. . . . BERNIE BURDICK. was chairman for the event. New officers are JAMES E. SULLIVAN, president; DENNIS PENNY, vice-president; Bernard Burdick, secretary, and JAMES P. BOYER, treasurer. The next function will be the presenting of the Schultean award to the outstanding senior boy at Schulte High School, based on citizenship, sportsmanship, scholarship. 
James P. Boyer '49 
TRIPLE CITIES 
The club sponsored its first annual scholarship and foundation ball at the new Binghamtom Treadway Inn Jan. 3. The dance represented the revival of a function missing from the club's calendar for IS years. Proceeds (yes, it made money) went to a newly created scholarship fund to assist future ND students and prospects from the area. 
Orginally planned for late December as a Christmas affair, the "Great Snowstorm of 1969" struck Binghamton with three feet of white stuff Dec. 26, forcing 
cancellation of everything for a period of 
time. But, the club persisted and even 
won out over the weather. President 
STEPHEN F. DRAGOS '61 praised 
co^hairmen JERRY NEALON '62 and 
TOM CONOLE '63 for organizing the 
revival of a good idea. Over 
100 couples attended. 
Plans are now being made for the 
celebration of UND night sometime in 
April, and for a summer family outing. 
Stephen F. Dragos '61 
TULSA 
The club celebrated UND night April 13 
on Keystone Lake. The group chartered 
a bus for this special event. The 
members, wives and guests enjoyed a 
steak dinner at Freddie's Steak House. 
The speaker was JAMES D. COONEY, executive secretary of the Alumni Association. Mr. Cooney delivered a speech concerning the history of ND and his spirit and enthusiasm for ND was appreciated by all. 
A special guest was TOM SULLIVAN, managing editor of the ALUMNUS magazine. 
Ray H. Siegfried II '65 
UTAH 
UND night was held April 22 at the 
Ramada Inn, Ogden, Utah. Our guest 
speaker was MIKE JORDAN, assistant 
alumni secretary. We wish to thank Mike 
for his fine presentation and insights 
of ND. The club also wants to thank CHUCK BENNETT '55 for the outstanding job he did while president. Due to military obligations. Chuck had to move on. Assuming the duties of president is Dr. JOHN SCHIRACK '50. Our next event will be the annual student send-off which will be held in August. 
Ted Bares '59 
Outgoing president Tom May (I to r), incoming president Jim Lyons and Tom SuOhan of the ALVMNUS congratulate Man of the Year August Von Boecklin at the Western Washington Club's affair. 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
the annual St Patrick's day party was hdd 
at St Elizabeth's Chuich. RocknOe, Md. 
During the erenins a ddightftd ptograin 
was rendered by the "Docs of Dirirfand," 
Co<liairnien of this aSur were RAY 
RAEDY and FRANK MCCARTHY. 
Results of the dob's dection were also 
announced during the evening. President, 
PETE CANNON '56; Vice-President, JOE 
CLANCY '53; Secretary, HARRY DUTKO 
'56; Treasurer, JOBS DANIELS '54. 
Elected to the board of directors were 
CLIFF LETCHER '40, RAY RAEDY '62, 
and VINCEHANRAHAN '22, who is to fill 
out Joe Clanpy's unejqned two-year term. 
The Club's .^ml limcbeon had as its 
speaker GEORGE RHODES, deputy 
superintendent of sdwols. District of 
Columbia. 
UNO ni^t took place AptQ IS at 
Bl(»ed Sacrament Church. The evening 
began with a concdArated Mass and 
liturgical music provided by the "Roamin' 
Collars," a nationally-known group of 
seminarians. Rev. EDWARD MALLOY 
CSC ddivered the homily. Also in 
attendance were Rer. JOE OlMNNELL 
'SS and Rev. JIM SCHERER '55, CSC. 
Under the leadership of ED FEtfLOti '41 
a wine and cheese demonstration was givetL 
BILL MIDDENDORF '43 was in cfauge 
of the arrangements. 
The hi ^ point of the evening was the 
presentation of the dub's "Notre Dame 
Man of the Year" to J. R. (PAT) 
GORMAN '39. Congratulations, PAT. 
May's event was a Club luncheon hdd 
at the University Chib. Prindpal speaker 
was DONALD RICE '61, deputy assistant 
secretary of defense. 
June and July win present our family 
picnic and aimual golf tournament, the 
favorite activities of summer. 
Harry A. Dutko '56 
WESTERN WASHINGTON ND aliunid from the Seattle metropolitan area joined in the observance of UND night by sharing dinner together at the Colonial House Restaurant TOM SULLIVAN, editor-ALUMNUS magazine, was the prin­dpal speaker discussing "Notre Dame in the 70's." Past President TOtA MAY shared the podium as Master of Ceremonies, while JIM LYONS served as chairman for the evening. Local alumni were happy to see JIM KINNANE. West Coast Regional Director, on hand for an interesting and informative evening. ND Man of the Year honors were bestowed on AUGUST VON BOECKLIN "34 for his humanitarian contributions to community and charitable activities. 
Tom May, RAY OXEARY, DENNIS RYAN and BILL BERBER conduded their term of office in adminsteiing the a&irs of the dub with the powers and responsibilities of office being passed to President Jim Lyons; JIM DAILEY, vice-president; J(XIN GAGUARDINI, sectetaiy; Dennis Ryan, treasurer. JEFF KOCH and BOB MORTENSEN were dected to director positions. 
Ibc new officers for the Women's Auxiliary are Brenda Adamczak, president; Mary Dailey, vice-president; Fran Flor, secretary-treasurer. Recruiting program and SUMMA activities are progressing in good order. Congratulations and many thanks to the outgoing officers of both Ae dub and the auxiliary for ;dl the fine past events. 
J. J. Ga^iardini '58 
i;^ 


The tirain meete—the Class of 1970 
And so once again the twain meets. The chasm is bridged. Some of those who are this place iiecome of this place. And the cycle that began in a small log cabin some 128 years ^ o continnes. The Men of Notre Dame, Oass of 1970, emerge from a four-year experience that has touched them with love, fear, passion, confusion, anger, frivolity, understanding and all of the other things that make up the adventure that is hnmaD edncatioB. 
They follow other men who have done many of the same fliiiigs in different ways in different times. Others will follow them in the same manner. But they are products of diis University in this time and, thus, are motivated by, concerned with and involved in the worid today, as it exists for them. 
To really know Notre Dame you must know her people, the ones for whom, ultimately, she exists. They are many and varied. They are not typical. They are not averse. In fact, they cannot be categorized, simply because they are people. The Class of 1970 came here in search of education and they discovered many things—^about themselves, each other and their world. Here are some of those people. 
— Tom Sullivan 

Mike Hendryx 
"What I found at ND," Mike Hendryx observed a couple of weeks before his graduation, "is not what I came looking for." What he found is a "total learning experience" that far exceeded his expectations. 
"There are so many things about ND," the 21-year-old business administration major contends, "that are bound up in its uniqueness: its size, its closeness of people, its religion." He describes the religion of the place as "a tradition of really caring for one another—^which may have something to do with faculty members staying here when there's more money elsewhere, or with bitching students not dropping out." 
Mike, a native Texan who came to ND in part to see what the North and its people were like, has combined an unusual array of interests and accomplishments during his four years in South Bend. He has a way of linking the two—interests and accomplishments—that has demanded many serious decisions throughout his undergraduate years. 
Among these relationships, of course, was his relationship with the military. "I decided to join Navy ROTC freshman year," he recalls, "on purely a practical level. But about a year ago two close friends decided that they had to sever their relation­ships with the military, which led me to do some very serious thinking about my own situation." Mike says he considered applying for conscien­tious objector status and leaving 
^ii'v.O'OtO^ 
ROTC, but finally decided to remain. 
"It was a hard decision," he recalls, 
"but I just believe I owe a duty to my 
country and this is something I ought 
to do." 
While he says he would favor the elimination of academic credit for ROTC courses because they are "peripheral and not really a part of the learning, questioning experience of a college curriculum," he disagrees with those who would bar ROTC from the campus. "The military needs liberally educated officers," he points out, and describes "my many class­mates who have serious reservations about the military and the war in Vietnam" as vital assets to the armed forces and the country as a whole. 
Hendryx, who as managing editor of The Scholastic gained a reputation as a man who is forever reliable and ready to work, is anxious for ND to improve in whatever areas possible. He favors the recent student-initiated chancellor-president proposal: "Fr. Hesburgh has done a fantastic job, but you have to be with it every day to be as responsive as is necessary to so many events happening so fast. The chancelor-president structure would help." He also believes strongly in the importance of the University's increasing minority recruitment and speeding the trend toward co-education. 
There are two events that Mike regards as among the most important experiences he has had at ND: his participation in the October Moratorium and the recent student strike. "The strike was the greatest 
thing that happened in my four years 
at ND—^not because we stopped 
classes, but because people were 
thinking and questioning around here 
like I had never seen them do 
before." He spent two days canvassing 
South Bend with a petition against 
the Cambodian invasion in the hope 
that some people would realize "that 
as much as students are upset with 
what is going on, they are still willing 
to try and work within the system." 
By the end of July, Mike Hendryx 
will be at sea with the Navy. After his 
three-year commitment he's not sure 
what will follow. The decision will be 
made though, and made with a 
foundation of faith, intelligence and 
sensitivity he would readily attribute 
to his "total learning experience" at 
ND. There are few ND men who 
have made that phrase mean much 
more than it has meant to Mike 
Hendryx. 
—Bill Mitchell '71 


Dan MeCabe 
In this the age of the stereotype, Dan 
McCabe falls into the niche that many 
people have reserved for the mythical 
ND student. He's Catholic, hales from 
the Midwest, and is from a middle-
class family. He's tall, good looking, 
personable, intelligent and he believes 
in this place and what it is striving to 
accomplish. 
Dan came to ND from Shelbeyville, a small town outside of Indianapolis, largely because he had an uncle and some cousins who attended. He tells you that he was looking for a good, solid education and was impressed with the image ND projected. He also tells you that he wasn't exactly sure what he wanted to study in college but based on aptitude tests he decided to give chemical engineering a whirl. He should be a real believer in the validity of aptitude tests now. In four years here he compiled a dean's list academic average and is a member of the engineering honorary. 
In discussing engineering, Dan says .he regrets that the ND curriculum, through most of his time here, has been too demanding and somewhat repetitious. "It didn't allow enough time or opportunity for me to participate in the other aspects of life at ND." He's pleased with recent changes that have come about in the college which will afford students more flexibility and the chance to become involved with interdisciplinary courses in other colleges. 
Mention the technological revolu­tion to McCabe and he will express the opinion that being technically oriented should be a big asset in the future "because I think technologists will have more of an insight into the why of change. Technology will definitely play a larger role in society in the future." He does feel that technologists should be more thoroughly exposed to the arts and culture and that the reverse should also be true for those unfamiliar with technology. 
Dan figures his four years at ND have been significant for him because "I've witnessed some big changes. Students have been given more freedom and responsibility in the handling of their lives and the formulation of their educations." He looks for more such change in the future. 
Interhall football and basketball, golf and bridge were activities that Dan involved himself with while living at ND. He also found time to participate in the campus chapter of the Knights of Columbus and the Indianapolis Club. He dated a Purdue co-ed for a while but he doesn't mention whether the breakup followed last fall's loss to the Boilermakers. 
Dan McCabe has plenty to say about things after four years at ND. Things like "the student power movement has its benefits because it's effective in allowing the student viewpoint to be aired," or "most students here feel the war in Vietnam is unjust and don't want to go over and fight, though the majority would probably go if drafted. I don't want to go either but I would if drafted." 
He feels that Catholicism at ND is 
in a period of evolution. "The 
students seem to be more involved 
with their fellow men and most of 
them resent the idea of blind 
obedience to some of the Church's 
rules. Most of them have an active 
interest in God but they feel the 
relationship should be on more of a 

personal basis than it has in the past" 
Described by a friend as "sort of the AU-American college student," Dan is frank in his appraisal of ND. As assets he lists quality education, real faculty communication with students, a good name and image, and the fact that the place "is not dormant —it accepts change." He sees as liabilities the fact there isn't enough coeducation on campus, that the University doesn't have the financial flexibility it needs to function more effectively and improve its facilities, and that "the students are generally apathetic in involving themselves with things that might make this a better place." 
A slot as a chemical engineer in the production control division of Procter & Gamble's Chicago operation awaits Dan. He hopes to work his way up the corporate management ladder while at the same time settling down with some lucky girl and raising a family. He is optimistic about ND's future and he plans to stay active in the Alumni Association. 
A close friend of Dan's describes him as "one of the most personable guys around. He's happy, com­municates well, is articulate and knowledgeable, and you never see him angry." If that adds up to a stereotype then Dan McCabe's your man. 
—Tom Sullivan 

«reg Adolf 

It has been said on occasion that the world is composed of diversity, which in proper proportions is a healthy thing. If that hypothesis holds truth the ND community has benefited during the past four years from the presence of Greg Adolf. He is different. 
Greg is a Lutheran candidate for Holy Orders studying at a Catholic university. He is from the arid Southwest in an institution that is comprised primarily of Midwestemers. He believes that students have been given too much freedom in an era when the cry for student independence reverberates across college campuses. 
Adolf came east to study at ND from Phoenix completely by "Divine Providence," as he firmly believes. He originally intended to go to George­town but when he failed to receive word from them regarding his acceptance, he chose ND. He later learned that a fire in the GU admissions office had destroyed the acceptance letter he awaited, a fact which seems to bcrister his Divine Providence theory. 
Though he came through the back door, Greg has a strong feeling for ND. "I'm pleased I came here because it's been an enriching experience. I've met people who've helped me formu­late my philosophies and who have really made life worth living." He feels it's a first rate university academically. "You can get one of the finest educations in the world here if you want to. But you've got to help yourself, you can't sit around and expect someone else to educate you." 
He sees ND as a microcosm of the world. "What scares the hell out of me is that what's wrong here is wrong out there too, only worse." He recommends it as a good place for an individual to come depending upon whether "the student is ready to invest a great deal of himself in the University." 
Obviously a purposeful fellow, Adolf is a history major whose ancestors helped settle and build the state of Colorado. He moved south and west when his father turned from education to home-building in an attempt to afford his family more security. 
He likes to paint, read, and listen to classical music but his activity isn't confined to an armchair. He is an avid Fighting Irish football fan and he enjoys outdoor life, especially fishing. Involve him in a conversation and sooner or later you'll find out that his favorite thing in life is good companionship. "I would be willing to sacrifice every material thing in life for good fellowship. And as far as 

I'm concerned, good food goes hand 
in hand." 
In discussing the burning issues of the day Greg opines that authority seems to be the focal point of most of the problems. "The people who attack authority, preach idealism and destroy symbols usually without offering concrete alternatives. If it keeps up this generation may yet ultimately bring about a George Wallace-type president." He doesn't lay the blame for today's troubles solely with society's activists. "The 'silent majority' is as much to blame for the ills and problems today as any radical element." 
Greg's views on the student generation of today are somewhat unusual. "Students are generally short-sighted, immature and in need of creating thrills and kicks. I believe you've got to prove worthiness for responsibility and I don't feel most students have. I sincerely doubt that the majority of them are emotionally mature enough to be legislating the moral and social life of a commu­nity." He's quick to point out that he doesn't believe in the opposite extreme either. "I don't advocate a return to Black Robe rule here at ND but there should be some moderation, a happy medium." 
When you talk with Greg Adolf you're talking with a real believer in Fr. Ted Hesburgh. "He's a man of great moral strength, courage and integrity. He knows exactly what a human being is and how to treat him. He takes the responsibilities for his actions upon himself instead of letting them be attributed to his office. He relies on God and himself not on the office of president" 
One of the big turning points in Greg's life occurred during his tenure at ND. He decided to study for the Lutheran ministry. He had long thought about taking up the practice of law but ultimately decided "there isn't enough service in the law." 
If you ask him why he made his decision you'll find "I want to be an ordained Lutheran minister in a parish because I think my life can best be fulfilled in that role. If I was looking for success on this earth I would've gone into the law and made a bundle. But I really believe this is my call of obedience to the two Great Commandments." 
You could say a lot more about Greg Adolf but a former dormmate of his probably said it best. "Greg was the best Catholic on the floor and he's a Lutheran." 
—^Tom Sullivan 


Art MeFarlaad 
Art McFarland has an ecological problem. It began four years ago. Perhaps any 18-year-old from Charleston, S.C, would have trouble orienting himself those first days on a northern Indiana college campus. But Art's problem was special—he is black. 
Art knew the ways of living in his home town. He knew the hard custodial work his father did; his mother's determination to send the nine children to a Catholic school, (although she is African Methodist Episcopalian) "because the church schools were better than the black ghetto public schools." Art was familiar with an all-black student body until, as a high school junior, he entered an "integrated" school with nine Negroes. "There was hostility until after I 'made it' in basketball." 
The National Student Fund for Negroes offered totalfinancial aid at Notre Dame,renewable if academic gradesremained high. Art entered the University. 
McFarland admits he was naive as a freshman. "I felt that if I could get through ND everything would be at myfingertips. So I told myself I would make it with the white boy; that I would adopt his attitudes." 
But then came disenchantment. Despite the fact that Art had been recognized by the Committee of Negro Enrollment as academically eligible, he found studies difficult the first semester. That's a farily common problem with college freshmen, but when you can never really unwind in the style to which you are accus­tomed, with soul music, food and the brothers, the problem is compounded. 
Art speaks warmly of his mother who often reminded him then of the 
value of an education and how 
educated blacks could help their 

brothers. 
Very slowly over the next three years Art began to solve his problem. He learned torelate to the white world while remaining black. In his sophomore year he discovered that many of the brothers were experienc­ing the same difBculties. Some, unable to cope with the situation, dropped out of ND. The others, after much discussion, formed the ND Afro-American Society with McFariand as president. 
Walt Williams, the society's vice-president, testifies to Art's special brand of leadership. "He is the kind of guy who gets things done, but in a low key. He usesfinesse and it works." 
On occasions Art's approach to problems has reached a hi^ r pitch. He didn't hesitate tofight for the re-instatement of seven black students after theirfreshman year failures. Nor was he afraid to walk out of the Student Senate meeting when the allocation of the funds he had requested for the Afio-American Society wasrefiised by a 21-20 vote. And there must have been high tension at the spring meeting with the ND Board of Trustees if Art would label it as "the most nauseating experience of my four years at ND." 
His leadership led to groups of blacks living together in the dorms, a committee for the implementation of a Black Studies program, and a campus orientation for the brothers a few days preceding the general freshman one. 
A political science major, McFarland likes to throw a baskett>all around, to spend time with his camera and take an active part in campus groups such as the Student 
^S*SS-^-»s3;s 

Affairs Committee of the Board of 
Trustees. He looks forward to a pre­
law student institute at Harvard this 
summer and then law school, 
probably at Columbia. 

Would he want to re-live the past 
four years? "That's something I don't 
need," he says. "I'm grateful for many 
things but I think my experience was 
unnecessarily hard." Is he proud to be 
an ND grad? "Academically, yes. I'll 
have the skills I need for my field. But 
I'm not happy about everything here. 
I think my degree of loyalty will 

increase as changes take place in the 
next few years." 
Today there are 80 black under­

grads, when Art was a freshman there 
were about 28. Has he noticed a 

difference in their lives at ND? "Even 
the average student life is different," 
he says, "when I came here the 

students were like children. Now there 
is an ND man." 

—Meg Van Der Gracht 


«fohn Gallagher 

"I had a little fellow about ten years 
old. There were seven kids in his 
family and their mother was 

separated. One afternoon I gave him 
a quarter to go ice skating and he had 
so much fun with just that one 
quarter that I was amazed," said 
John Gallagher. 
This little fellow was one of the 
boys that John tutored in the 

Neighborhood Study Help Program 
during his sophomore year. Gallagher 
related the incident while explaining 
what he would change if he could do 
ND all over again. 

"I wish I had had more time to devote to organizations like the Neighborhood Study Help Program. I feel an obligation to help people in situations like that little boy," said John. 
Although his time was limited he did become attracted to the Blue Circle by its members. "I joined because of the meaning of the two words they stressed—service and fraternity, I liked the thought of performing some sort of service for people through a fraternity, but not a clique," he said. During his sopho­more year he also ran for student body vice-president. Though unsuc­cessful in this bid, a year later he campaigned for his class vice-presidency and won. 
What limited John's involvement in activities like these was his prowess with a basketball. He played varsity ball at Archbishop Molloy High on 
Lxtng Island and was alt set to attend 
Princeton until he came under the 
scrutiny of the Irish scouts. When 
offered a scholarhip, he decided on 
ND. 
Through three-and-a-half seasons 
on the hardwood John played his 
best but still found himself watching 
the opening tip-off from the bench. 
You can be sure, though, one reason 
those five starters played so well was 
because of his presence on the team. 
"The harder I worked, the harder 
those in front of me worked," John 
explained. Finally, midway through 
his final season his hard work and 
unending determination won him a 

berth on the starting team. And at the 
post-season basketball awards banquet 
he was named recipient of the John 
Jordan award for his leadership, 

unselfishness, and competitive attitude. 
"They didn't say I scored 25 points 
and pulled down 19 rebounds but that 
I made a contribution in other ways. 
And if that's what the coaches think 

of me, I'm very pleased," he remarked. 
John never had any ambition to play pro ball and never played enough at ND to be scouted by the NBA or ABA. However, this summer he plans to use his Merchant Marine Seaman's papers to work his way over to Europe for a visit and a chance to talk with a few European basketball coaches. If the opportunity arises, he'd like to play ball there for a while. Otherwise he'll return to his former high school in the fall and teach English for a few years before going on to law school. 
Judging from his dean's list average John has spent a lot of time on academics. He majored in English because it offered him the greatest amount of flexibility and the best chance to refine his writing and speaking skills. Authors like Mark Twain, Ernest Hemingway, and William Faulkner appeal to him because of the American lifestyle that permeates their literature. He especially enjoys Twain because of "his uniquely American humor and the authenticity of his characters." 
Everyone has someone they respect and admire and John's no different in that regard. For him that person is Bill Bradley, a Princeton grad, a Rhodes scholar, and a member of the New York Knicks. "Bradley's a good athlete and a fine person. While he was at Princeton he'd play varsity ball on Friday and Saturday nights and then get up early Sunday morning to teach Sunday school. He's the kind of person I hope to be." His admiration for Bradley runs so deep that one of 

the reasons he applied for a Rhodes 
scholarship was because Bradley had 
done so. 
After four years at du Lac John feels he has come to the realization of what it is that makes this place distinctive. "I could have received a good education anywhere because I would've worked at it. The difference at ND has been the people I've met. They make the place what it is." 
He considers ND's Catholicity as its most positive aspect. "I can go to Mass, receive the sacraments or talk to a priest anytime I feel the need." 
Like most seniors about this time of year, John feels somewhat nostalgic. He summarizes the unspoken words of a lot of people when he says, "I'm already missing the place and I've barely graduated." 
—^John McDermott '70 


Rick Libowitz 
"I'm someone who wants to see a lot of things done." And Rick Libowitz is definitely not afraid to do his part in 
making sure things are done. 
The likeable senior from Stamford, Conn., has a four-year history of ND activism behind him. You can start with the four years he's spent broad­casting from the student radio station WSND. You can talk about the fact that as a sophomore he captained ND's last College Bowl team (which like its predecessor met defeat at the hands of a girl's school). Or you can mention his dean's list average and the fact that he's involved in an English honors program and with minority recruitment. 
You could dwell on his abbreviated track career for the Irish which was shortened to one-and-a­half years because of a knee injury. Or you might discuss his two-year chairmanship of the student-operated Free University and his double term as VP of the campus Young Democrats. And then there was his involvement in student government and his two-year stint as a member of the Alumni Student Relations Panel. 
But if you really want to get at the "radical" happenings in Rick Libowitz's life you've got to talk about his deep involvement and concern with the anti-war mora­toriums and the recent student strike. And you have to mention his involvement as one of four students cited in an injunction the University had drawn up to prevent interference with the job interviews being 
conducted on campus by Dow and 
the CIA last fall. 
There are those who, because of his somewhat hirsute appearance and aggressive approach to life, might be tempted to call Rick Libowitz a "hippie" or a "radical." They might be partially right. He describes himself as, "a pragmatic realist. I worked for JFK and later for Johnson. I liked RFK and what he represented. I'm not starry-eyed anymore but I do believe we can have a meaningful society if people do the work. It's work that at one time may have been fashionable and glorious, but today it's dirty work and it still has to be done." 
Aside from his appearance, his intelligence and his strangely easy­going zeal. Rick Libowitz is an atypical ND man. He is Jewish, one of a minority of six such people on the campus. If you ask him why, coming from a Jewish family, he chose to study at ND, you're likely to get a laugh and "temporary insanity" for an answer. 
In a more serious vein he tells you, "I wanted to go to a name school that was as different as possible because I thought it would help me know other people better and thus expand my knowledge of myself. My parents said 'it's your education, go where you think you should go,' so I came here." 
About his years under the Dome 
Rick says, "In four years I've changed 
and there are some people here who 
have had a very strong and lasting 
influence on me. I've done many 
things here but it's the people who 
are important." He lists Fr. Tom 
Brennan and Dr. Willis Nutting as 
two faculty members who have had 
impact on his life. 
About ND he says, "There's no 
question that this place has changed 
drastically. It's gone a long way 
toward catching up with other schools 
as far as the day-to-day environment 
goes. Many of the little hypocrisies 
are gone, such as coats and ties for 
dinner and no drinking on campus." 
He is apprehensive about too much . 
change though. "ND is in a position 
to do its own thing and make its own 
way. We have some unique things 
here which we should try to preserve. 
There is a distinct flavor here. I came 
and was accepted like any other 
student. There is a warmth, a feeling, 
a kinship, a spirit that other schools 
don't have. 
It's not difiicult to get Rick to comment on what he feels this place should be. "ND isn't a training school for Catholics. It's a major university and as such should have diversity. I have been able to get a lot out of my education here because there is diversity. I don't think ND should ever lose its Catholicity. I like the flavor and think the University should always attempt to work within a moral framework." 
Getting to know Rick Libowitz is interesting. You find out that he likes to read, talk to people and listen to folk music. Hell tell you that on weekends he likes to "drink wine, play loud music and participate in 'rages' (wild parties)." At least in that respect he's a typical Golden Domer. You also find out that he likes to work with kids. "I've spent a couple of summers as a camp counselor and really feel that working with children is the greatest work there is." 
Try getting him to elucidate his feelings on his generation and you get something like, "If we were totally turned off to the country we wouldn't do anything but we do care and think it's worth saving. The ideas it was founded upon are worthwhile and valid but we shouldn't allow them to become distorted as they have been in the last 70 years." 
One of the prominent problems in society today, the way Rick sees things, is military conscription. "I conscientiously object to involuntary military service. I would prefer a national service for guys and girls that would allow each to make a contribution in an area in which he is qualified." He adds, "Everything I've done in the last 17 years has been directed to constructive, educational activity. The military is destructive-by nature and is the polar opposite of what I've been involved with since childhood.'' 
Ask Rick Libowitz about ND's future and he says, "I expect to see more diversity and better balance in the student body. I'm concerned with this place and all the friendships and memories it has given me. I want it to continue to be a meaningful experience for each person who spent four years here." 
Ask him about his own future and he's quite frank. "I want to work with and for people. I plan to go to rabbinical school for five or six years and someday have a congregation." 
An interesting sort of fellow that Libowitz. If he's a radical the world could use a few more just like him. 
—Tom Sullivan 
Dave DeConrsey 

Dave DeCoursey's seven roommates like to talk about Dave's high school football days back at Rockhuist Hi ^ in Kansas City. The highli^t of that career, they insist, was the time Dave plunged off tackle and ended up dragging former ND Ail-American Dave Martin 86 yards for a TO. The Deacon, a nickname several DeCourseys have picked up at ND, tones down the legend a bit. He claims he never played against Martin, who played for a rival high school. Instead he lists as his gridiron pinnacle a last-second fumble that lost the big homecoming game in his junior year. 
Although Dave has not been among the most avid of Irish football fans in recent years, he claims football had much to do with his decision to attend ND. "When I was seven years old," he recalls, "I wanted to be a pro quarterback, and ND seemed the most obvious way to get there. My reasons may have changed, but I never really thought about going anywhere else." He had a lot of family support. In addition to "five or six uncles and cousins" who graduated from ND, Dave's father and three of his brothers are members of the "family." A younger brother will begin his freshman year in September. 
As is the case with most of his classmates, though, the Deacon has discovered considerably more than football and a continuing family tradition at ND. Especially in his work with CILA, the Council for the International Lay Apostolate, Dave has begun a life of Christian service which he intends to continue in the area of community organization. He spent the summer following his sophomore year as a tutor in the ghettos of Washington, D.C., and last summer did similar work in Spanish Harlem. 
He attributes to the Harlem experience the vital impetus for two very central decisions in his life: work as a community organizer and application for the Selective Service classification of conscientious objector. "In Harlem I found some people living hate and mistrust next to pet^le who were living love. It made apparent to me the fact that a life style of love is the only way people can live together." He feels this realization coupled with the insights he gained from a course in philosophical theology taught by Fr. Dave Burrell made his conscientious objection "just naturally follow." 
Dave feels Fr. BuireU's course made him aware of the importance of "living the sort of language one is 
using. I finally realized that I was 
using a language of nonviolence and 
that the sort of life I wanted to lead 
was constant with this, thus the CO." 
Dave describes ND as "an 

excellent place for students to 
mature spiritually and intellectually 

because of the understanding men 
who tolerate and understand the kind 
of growth one must experience." He 
suggests a few reforms for the 
University, such as moving some of 
the campus into South Bend. 
"University students lead a pretty 
isolated life," he contends, "and their 
decisions are often isolated from the 
everyday concerns that aren't part of 
the 'pure' atmosphere of a university." 
He also likes the idea of co-education. 
"Girls are people and there is no 
reason to discriminate against them." 
Dave, who is one of three seniors graduating in June with AB degrees in theology, plans to study public administration at Syracuse U. in the fall. He believes, however, that grad school is only part of the education he needs to have the ability to do a good job in community organization. "The only valid way to get into the kind of work is to share a life in common with the people and to provide a certain basic understanding of how they can deal with the problems they face." 
Throughout his four years at ND, Dave has concerned himself with serving people directly where their need is greatest: as a tutor in the Nighborhood Study Help Program, as a CILA summer worker, and this past year as CILA president. He admits to having enjoyed life at ND fully at his own pace, while at the same time orienting himself toward the needs of others. There are not indications that his unique pattern will be broken following graduation. 
—Bill Mitchell '71 


Jeff Karrenbaner 
Talk. Talk. Talk. Everybody does it but few with the fluency, logic, and array of facts that Jeff Karrenbauer does. To his friends in Badin Hall and Air Force ROTC and his professors in the Business School he is well known for his verbal prowess. 
Those who know that his father is a radio announcer in Canton, Ohio may claim that it runs in the family. But if you ask Jeff hell tell you it's all a result of four years on the debate team in high school. He considers it "the most enjoyable and beneficial activity that I've ever participated in." 
His rhetorical skill was probably one of the reasons he was chosen as the chief spokesman for the Rocke­feller campaign during the Repub­lican Mock Convention in sophomore year. Although the actual convention lasted less than a week he was deeply involved in politicking and speech-making for several months. During the convention he met the pretty SMC'er he's been dating ever since. Me claims that this has nothing to do with why he considers it "the most memorable single event of my four years at ND." 
Upon his arrival here four years ago he joined Air Force ROTC because he believes that "there is a need for an instrument within society that must be concerned with security." He feels that everyone has a respon­sibility to contribute to the security of society and that he could best do his part through the ROTC program. 
His conception of a university leads him to believe that ROTC should be offered on college campuses and students should receive credit for for it. "A university exists to foster an exchange of ideas and to permit one to receive an education in virtually any area one chooses, in­cluding ROTC," he says. Jeff recalls that "some of his military science courses were the only ones at ND where he was forced to disagree with the professors." 
When he entered the business school as a sophomore he chose marketing as a major because he felt it afforded room for individual creativity, decision-making, and leadership. He graduated first in the Business College and in the top ten of his class. This summer he will begin a three-year doctoral program at Ohio State in logistics and marketing on a full scholarship. After that there's the four-year obligation to the Air Force. 
While many students today are busy attacking the military-industrial complex, Jeff contends that this very complex could be used to confront and remedy the social problems that face society. "In exploring the space frontier," he reasons, "NASA mobil­ized the best talent in the fields of business, science, and engineering and combined them with private enterprise. This procedure could be employed on a parallel basis using government as the funding tool and business as the organizing tool. All that's needed is a redirection of this process, a recom­mittment to this new aim." And if Jeff realizes his "Utopia" he will be in a position to help effect this change. 
S^;r^-i_'fV^';'\^;V'i'^.«;.^^^ 

He wants to work for a company that explores the aerospace frontier and is endeavoring to turn its technology and capital toward the alleviation of the social problems that plague society. 
Looking back upon his four years here he regards "the people I've met and the wide exchange of ideas that goes on around here" as the greatest aspects of ND. He also believes "that everyone who comes to ND gets more out of the experience than they put into it." 
Being so far from a city the size of Chicago is what he considers ND's greatest disadvantage. "Being in closer proximity to a big city would complement everything we have here," he says. Jeff also dislikes "the closed-mindedness of the supposedly liberal faction on campus." (Though he doesn't consider himself a con­servative.) He feels that the attitude they displayed during the morator­iums, the strike, and on other issues is "dysfunctional to a university." 
When the topic of coeducation comes up he's one of its strongest advocates. He believes that girls "will be a moderating and humanizing influence on campus." He's even tried to help it along. As a member of ND's Arnold Air Society, a com­munity and service organization, he has traveled to many other campuses where this group has chapters. While there he discovered that many units had Angel Flight Wings, a coed auxiliary. It wasn't long before he and another member were talking up Angel Flight at SMC. And now ND's Arnold Air Society has its own Angel Flight Wing across the road to help them in their community endeavors. 
Jeff's close friends in Badin Hall realize his great facility with words. The only area where they feel his rhetoric has failed him is on the golf course where they always seem to be waiting for Jeff to demonstrate his often-talked about facility with a gcrif club. According to some of them "well still be waiting on the first tee when the first reunion rolls around." 
—J< ^ McDermott 7 0 

ALUMNI ASK 
TWISTED? 

I notice in the story titled "A New Twist" in the recent ALUMNUS that students are choosing their own curriculum. 
It appears that ND has lost its sanity. As I understand it a student goes to school to learn. By this fact he is in no position to choose his studies. That is, he may choose from what the faculty offers. If the student's training is so vast and his experience so great that he composes the curricula then he should be teaching. This might not be a bad idea, in view of the freeloaders that pass as university professors these days. 
Frank Courtney '45 
Laconia Apts. f 1 
529 S.E. Grand Ave. 
Portland, Ore. 
WASTEBASKET, ANYONE? 

I am writing you because yours is the first name I see—your letter on the fly cover ending with a lament that you have not received a response from alumni who have been invited to speak out "on any issue that suited you." Also, in the masthead, I find you come the closest to having graduated from N.D. approximately when I was there, ('61-'64—graduate student in English). 
Perhaps my point is wrongheaded and may strike you as ridiculous, but I would like to request that you stop sending me the ALUMNUS. As much as I am occasionally amused by thumbing through to the section on the English department to see if anyone there that I knew has done anything, I fear the bulk of your publication is nothing but wasted paper to me, and it winds up where most wasted paper winds iip. 
In our time, to waste good paper is a sin against (to put it in the current fashion) our environment. I suggest that you read something like A Moment in the Sun by Robert and Leona Reinow or The Environmental Handbook (both very popular paper­backs at the moment). You might revise your publications policy of sending out the ALUMNUS without the consent of the receivers. 
I v/ould also appreciate it if you would publish my letter in your magazine. Some of your other silent "subscribers" who have nothing in common save having graduated from N.D., and receiving your magazine 
unasked for, might just think twice about the paper waste involved. 
Tom Eagan M.A. '62 78-40 164 St Flushing, N.Y. 11366 
UMEMBER HUE! 

It seems to me, a wife of a 1960 ND graduate, that Father Hesburgh has done the University a great disservice when he publicly protested President Nixon's decision to send US troops into Cambodia. Father Hesburgh stated that he wants the Vietnam war to end—and I say, who doesn't?? But he's going the wrong way to seek a solution. I think the universities have a responsibility to present both sides of a question to their students. From what I've read and heard in news releases concerning ND, it has failed completely to do this in respect to the Cambodian situation. All these students needed was Father Hes­burgh's statement to send most of them off half-cocked to protest the war effort. Most of the ones I talked to have no idea what's going on over there and are not even keeping up to date on news releases from the battlefield so they can attempt to argue their positions intelligently instead of standing slack-jawed when someone like me mentions that haven't they (students with petitions protesting US action in Cambodia) read that the munitions captured from the Communists* sanctuaries in Cambodia in the first week of action alone exceed the amount expended against US and South Vietnamese forces during the first four months of this year? Now what do these kids think the Communists were going to do with these munitions —play tiddlywinks?????? 
It seems to me that if the leaders and students of this country truly want peace in Vietnam, why don't they state this fact and unite with their President instead of protesting every action of President Nixon, who has shown by his action to date, i.e., troop withdrawal and Vietnamization program, that he wants peace and is doing everything he can to attain his goal. Indeed, if Americans had united years ago and showed the Communists we meant business (as in the 1962 Cuban confrontation), we wouldn't have to deal with a Cambodian situation today. The years of dissension we've had about this war to date have shown the Com­munists that all they have to do is wait a while longer and America, torn apart from within, will withdraw, leaving the whole of Indochina for the taking. And if these students might sometimes wonder how the Communists will seize the country, have them read—or reread—^the accounts of the Hue slaughter where thousands of civilians were murdered as a matter of course during the 1968 TET offensive. 
Sheila A. Brunelli 
(Mrs. A. R., Jr. '60) 
1732 N. Adams St. 
South Bend, Ind. 46628 

MOM'S TURN 
The big cry of American college youth today is that they have a right 
to dissent and be heard. 
Well, as the mother of a ND student, I also claim that right. 

When we send our sons to ND, we expect them to work at the job of gaining an education, just as we are working to pay for it. 
We expect them to attend class, fulfill the requirements both in time and study and thus earn their degrees. 
If they want to protest, that should be done in such time and place as not to interfere with their own studies or the rights of others to pursue theirs. 
A degree is something that is to be earned and not a handout, which some youth think is their due. 
Therefore I think that the authorities should set the rules and those who can't abide by them should leave at the request of the authorities. 
What about the honest working men with families such as police and firemen, who have been beaten and even mortally injured in protecting the just rights of others? 
Why are students permitted special rights denied to other citizens? 
It is wrong and we, the parents, had better see that the situation is corrected. 
Jeanne Rohrs (Mrs. George Rohrs '33) 236 Park HiU Ave. Yonkers, New York 
AMERICA, BIG BROTHER! 
Upon reading the letter from Marie Murphy in the March-April ALUMNUS, my first impression was that somehow she had missed the international association of with the peace movement and I marvelled at her ignorance. But then I reread her letter and found that she con­sidered the Moratorium Day Mass as a prostitution of its intended purpose which shattered my hopes of her ignorance. Unwillingly I tried to follow her association that , the peace movement symbol, was the cross of Anti-Christ, because that meant the war movement is the cross of Christ. And I had never associated Christ with war or as being pro-war before but then Marie Murphy might marvel at my ignorance of that. 
In regards to her feelings that the Mass was prostituted during the October Moratorium Day, that means that it was used for base purposes which again brings us to the fact that she feels peace is a base purpose. 
Unfortunately I don't really think the diagnosis is that simple. It is my feeling that Marie Murphy's opinions and accusations along with the many others I have encountered both on paper and firsthand are the result of, in my opinion, a very important and a very broad misconception. That misconception being that America can do no wrong. This has been carried down from the birth of "God's Country" to "Manifest Destiny" to "taking up the white man's burden" to our present meddling. It all means that, "America is free and the best that exists so America is right in anything it does." This idea, or theorem or whatever, is the backbone of the great majority of America's 
people; unfortunately this democratic majority doesn't make this idea, of itself, true. The fact that America is democratically organized does not make it infallible and does not give it the right to Americanize other nations and races at the expense of these nations' and races' dignity, wealth and self-determination. 
In Vietnam, America mistook the Vietnamese revolution against the wealth-draining French and their  privileged to be the fight between democracy and communism and proceeded to negate a Vietnamese Vietnam which was the real issue. Even today the fight continues to throw out the white interference and its privileged, in order to establish a Vietnamese Vietnam. The North Vietnamese have long admired the making of a Chinese China and only desire to do the same; to be free of the foreign hands which have controlled their country and its wealth for over eighty-five years. They are fighting for the freedom of a Vietnamese Vietnam. America has failed to respect Vietnam and its 
people and has chosen instead to fight for what it thinks Vietnam should be. 
There is no moral or legal basis that gives America the right to interfere in the internal politics of Vietnam or any other country of the world. Every country of the world must find its own way with its own people. All that this requires is the respect and toleration of other countries. No country or people, no matter how non-developed it is, economically and politically, requires the selfish interference of others. 
The widespread feeling that America is always right is evident in the display of "America: Love It or Leave It" emotions, which compel me to conclude that they feel loving your country means believing that it is infallible. To them if I go my way, I'm a traitor; to me if I go their way, I'm a fool! 
James L. Reid '69 851 E. Glen Ave. Milwaukee, Wis. 53217 
'REAL- DEMOCUCr 
As an alumnus who is concerned about the course that our beloved ND seems to have taken I must strongly voice objection to the existing campus policies. 
There are but fond memories of ND, Fathers Cavanaugh, Burke, Hagerty, Craddick, Lynch, Brothers Justin, Pat, Boniface, Meinrad, and the countless other wonderful priests and brothers of the forties. They reflected along with the students a love of God, in neighbor, and Our Lady. 
I still remember the friendliness and democratic attitude shown by the students regardless of their social background. The absence of fraternities avoided snob groups. The discipline which was always a subject for complaint did treat all fairly and definitely established right and wrong and was completely compatible with the Church's teachings. 
Spirituality was a tremendous force on campus. This 'conunitment' idea of today means nothing unless first there is a sincere spiritual motivation behind it. Today's humanism is more emotional and less reasonable than our faith on Our Lady's campus in the forties. 
All the men I knew in the forties are today strong family men and strong forces in their parish and diocesan work. 
The truth and principles which ND taught are, as far as I am concerned, still pertinent and still viable. If ND can expand her endowment. 
upgrade the quality of education, compete for the top students, then she can also still teach, exemplify and foster what has made her great in the past, a true devotion to Our Lady. 
Again emphasizing my concerned alumnus role it should be the 'number one' aim of ND to renew and restore the strong faith that Our Lady expects. 
If thb is done than truth will be served and the libertine approach of today won't seem so important. 
Joseph C. McManus, Jr. '44 1004 Lansmg Rd. Mt. Pleasant, S.C. 
NEW PATHOTISM 
(After reading Father Hesburgh's speech of May 4) 
Unfortunately patriotism has been confused with, and thrown out of proportion by, enchantment with the image of our romantic (romanticized) revolutionary past. The time MUST come if our worid is to become a fit place in which to live, when patriots are essentially defined by works of educating, healing and ennobling— not shooting, maiming, hating and blasting. 
The military is (worldwide) an archaic remnant of primitive social justice. 
We must institute another more humane (thus, more divine) form of worldwide, social arbitration. The beginnings are already with us, and have been for some time. 
Fred A. Ruth '66 c/o S026 Anza St. San Francisco, Calif. 94121 
Are you out there? 



Anything to say nhout topies eovered in tliis magazine? 
Letters AouU be addressed to Editor, ND Alumnus, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 and should not exceed 150 words. 
Ur. Franeig P. Claris Head, Microfilming 5: Photo, 
Lab. 

Memorial Library Hotre Dame, Ind. 46555 





-::m 
Pray, Sisters, pray! 

