The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
4lOTRE DAME FOOTBALL ISSUE 
-r^-r-'z— ^ f. 1 .;• j y •-,->; Vol.38 No. 5 December, 1960 


POTRE 
'•-—? JAMES E. AKMSTRONG. '25 Editor 
• i JOHN F. LAUGHLIN, '48 
2J

IDAAIE 
Managing Editor 

ie^.j—ji. .j^...-j»t-.j—.>t»...j/..y A •» J 
The announcement that the University of Notre Dame has extended the coaching contract 
HAPPY NEW YEAR, JOE! 
. of Joe Kuharich, '38, three years beyond its expiration date—to February, 1966—should 
bring an element of stability to coaches, squad, prospects, and aliunni and friends. In the light of this move, the remarks below 
seem even more to the point.—^I. E. Armstrong, Editor. 
questions. But the questions are those meant administration, faculty, student 

NOTRE DAME 

of a constructive curiosity about a body, alumni, community, synthetic or healthy phenomenon, from interested N subway alumni, and, by many impli­

FOOTBALL —1960 

alumni and friends, who believe that cations, the Catholic Chm-ch. by James E. Armstrong football is one of the nourishing fac­
In the recent years there has been I enrolled at Notre Dame in 1921. tors which has fed not only the sports a tendency to yield to the specialization The football team had had two unde­pages of the nation, but the richer and departmentalization of the world feated seasons, 1919 and 1920, and an-pages of tradition; the inspiring pages around Notre Dame football. I have 
:*ther seemed imminent. The post-of competition; the prosperous pages heard more and more "the team," vVorld War I teams were strong, and of Notre Dame's financial progress; 
"Leahy's lads," "Brennan's boys," "die it looked like Coach Rockne had the leadership pages of many facets of 
 an boys lost another," "THEY haven't 
undefeated season assured. The loss life into which athletes have been fed; got it this year," and now "what's Joe 
that year to Iowa was my first contact going to do?" 
with the tragedy of student spirit. It For my own part, as editor of the was, as I look back, probably over-ALUMNUS, I report honestly that in 
Sept. 30—Oklahoma at Notre Dome 
dramatized because loss was unfamiliar Oct. 7—Purdue at Lafayette no era over these four decades has to any of the students. 
there been any serious alumni pressure, 
Oct. 14—Southern Cal at Notre Dome 
After that came the entanglement 

alumni criticism, aliunni interference, ,|>bfith some of tlie N.D. stars in pro or aluimii abuses. There has been a 
Oct. 21—Michigan State at East 
Lansing 

football (the money involved then was persisting interest, a universal enthusi­

Oct. 28—Northwestern at Notre Dome 
hardly enough to justify the charges, asm, a loyal hope, and a deep appre­
Nov. 4—Navy at Notre Dame 
but the principle was ironclad). ciation of the richness of the football 
Nov. 11—PiHsburgh at Pittsburgh It looked as though the football sun Nov. 18—Syracuse at Notre Dame tradition. svas about to set on the promising Nov. 25—Iowa at Iowa City I think good football is possible un­Notre Dame football empire. Coach Dec. 2—Duke at Durham der high standards, because we have Rockne was only just getting acquaint­seen high standards and good football ed with some of my classmates — good the spiritual pages of an intangible living together for all these years. students for the most part, but small force, developed by an almost acciden­I think coaching, materiaJ, student Jis football players had come. The tal circumstance into a symbolic arm spirit, changes, attitudes, and all the names included Stuhldreher, Layden, of the Church, and fostered by the other pieces of the football pattern are Miller and Crowley, Hunsinger, Col­prayers of nuns and children; an an­not essentially changed. 
lins, Bach, Rip Miller, Kizer, Weibel, nual visible manifestation of a spirit To me, the situation can very pos­and Walsh, with some even more likely that has loomed much larger than the sibly stem almost entirely from the prospects offering a little hope. 
season's scoreboards. scattering of the pieces of this pattern, 
Well, that is how my interest in foot­So we must accept the unrest that away from its former institutional to-ball grew — though it never distracted comes with any indication that this taUty. a large and entliusiastic student body, long and loved phenomenon is seriously Within each piece of this pattern 
^f record proportions then, from the threatened. there is the potentiality for fitting itself 
*^ursuit of learning, and the many other I do not think it is. What may be back into the whole. I think when fluourishing extracurricular programs the problem? that is done, Notre Dame \vill resimie of a growing University. In analyzing the situation from the its place among the leaders in football, 
When news of Rockne's death came vantage point of 39 years as a lay without affecting in any way its place to Notre Dame on that sad March day observer, I am not convinced that it among the leaders in any or all phases in 1931, it seemed again as though is coaching, material, standards, ad­of higher education. football destiny had run its course. ministration and faculty attitudes, or The real source of optimism is that 
But though the ensuing years have changing times. Certainly it is not this can be done quickly, if there is 
•brought changes in the coaching staff, alumni pressures. agreement on the solution. the cold fact remains that for 25 years One thing seems to me to hold at Notre Dame's football tradition and after Rockne's death, Notre Dame foot­least the potential answers. When I its teams have been in a sense like the ball remained the top team record in knew Notre Dame football at its best, flaming sword of Michael. It would major football in the U.S. it represented a totality of enthusiasm. be almost a heresy to think that they 
Small wonder then that a more It was Notre Dame that won, or Notre could be overcome by intellectuaJ (Justained period of adversity raises Dame that lost. And this Notre Dame pride. 

This Football Phenomenon 
Excerpts from an Address at the Football Banquet in 1929 by Rev. 
 Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, 
der, wilder learning, more divine an© nearer to the source of trudi. It is that lesson which the heart learns of life itself, — it is honor, it is chivalry, it is loyalt}', it is love; it is dedication and consecration of self to an ideal and a cause, even though in the particular premises that cause is only the ele^ mentary one of winning a footbalr game for sake of the school. 
"Two and two make four, but one and ten do not merely make eleven, when that one is Captain John Law and die otiier ten are the men of his team fighting for die honor of their school. When it comes to tiiat, yoi^ pass out of the prosaic world of rude and common calculation into 'an ampler etiier, a diviner air' where the impossible dreams that sway mankind become breathing realities. In tiiat realm, forever living, dwell the custo­dians and the exemplars of our human heritage of valor and virtue — Sparta is there and Rome is there, RicharcP and Raymond and Godfrey, the Kings of Artiiur's Table, and the great Gaels of Ireland — 'die men that God made mad. For all their wars were merry. And all their songs were sad' — while high and clear above that fabled and historic host rings die tocsin of fed­erated fighting men ever>'where — 'A© for one, one for all.' Into that com­pany diese lads of today enter by aspi­ration if not in fact, giving all they have of loyalty and devotion to their school to leave a record lime may read only through its tears. I know how sentimental and sophomoric this will sound to the men that issue the bu 0 letins. But these realities are, though they cannot be assayed in laboratories or catalogued in libraries, and I won­der if when tiie schoolmen's prophecies shall be made void, and tongues shall cease, and knowledge shall be de­stroyed, I wonder if there shall nt© stand out as among the supreme pos­sessions of life this little brother of the charity St. Paul describes — the love in the heart of a boy for his school and liis school's love for him." A 
"This football phenomenon — and that is what football has become in America — strikes me as being some­thing like the elephant, which, in the old story, the blind men went to see. One of the blind men, stumbling against the elephant's side, said, 'I perceive the elephant is very like a wall.' Another, happening to catch hold of the elephant's trunk, opined that die elephant was like a tree; while, to another, who happened to catch hold of the animal's tail, the ele­phant appeared much like a rope. Now football is like that How you regard it will depend upon what aspect of it you single out and concentrate upon. For example, some cridcs insist, noting only the crowds that attend games, that football is nothing but a great spectacle that has got away from the colleges and becomes public property. Odiers, looking only at the gate receipts, main­tain that football is just a great money­making business. Others still, regard­ing it from an inside academic point of view, affirm that football is the great obstacle to the fundamental purpose of college life, which is study. I am far from admitting tliat any one of these points of view is so well justified as any one of tlie descriptions which die blind men gave the elephant. . . . 
"Finally, tiiere is the scholastic as­pect of football. Contrary to die com­mon opinion, there has been in die past few years a general raising of academic requirements. As a result of this, right now, one-sixdi of die entire enrollment at Notre Dame are on pro­bation. That is not an unusual result of tile first quarterly tests, since the majority of these are freshmen. It means tiiat unless these students, at die term examination, come up to require­ments in their studies, they will be dropped from the Universit)' for low scholarship. Four-fifdis, or more, of tiiese backsliders will make the grade. There is no discrimination here in favor of students who take part in athletics as against tiiose who do not Even die sternest critics of the situa­
President of the University 

tion do not make this charge. They know that the athlete is subject, if anydiing, to keener scrutiny on the score of his classes dian is the non-athlete. They say rather that, not­withstanding all the alleged improve­ment, standards are so deplorably low generally it is no credit to any student to keep up in his classes. 
"These critics overlook or ignore one important, and I diink, the most im­portant aspect of the whole question. College is not merely a school; it is a life. It is a school-life, of course, and the major emphasis, I affirm, is, as it ought to be, on study. But even if it were not, if football interest ran away with one-quarter of die year, then, I say, diere are ever so many worse things that could happen to a school, and, in my opinion, would happen to a school if that healthy outlet for young energy and enthusiasm were closed. There are more things in heaven and eartii — in the college heaven and earth, for it is a combination of the two — tiian are dreamed of in die pliilosophy of foundations for the ad­\'ancement of college statistics. Man is not all mind; he is a creature of flesh and blood; he has a heart, and the heart, too, must be schooled in a curriculum which life itself supplies in those four years crowded with wonder which make up die college career of the student today. There are intangi­ble realities, there are imponderable values of which your carefullest statisti­cian never in die nature of things can take account. Two and two make four, and die college student will learn that lesson dirough whatever complexities tiie formula may be extended. But Uiere is another mathematics, a mad-
ED. NOTE: Thirty years ago, intercol­legiate football was accused of ha\'ing de­veloped a public spectacle, for profit, through methods incompatible with aca­demic standards. The defense of football by Fr. O'Donnell, though 30 years have elapsed, might have been written today. Notre Dame then was under fire for victory. The following are only excerpts, dealing primarily with the treatment of the criticism of academic standards. J.E.A. 

1960 Frosh Sliow Promise For the Future 
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER 

"In time, I think that all the fresh­mmen football players should be able to ^provide some help for the Varsity." This 
was Freshman Football Coach Hugh Devore's estimation of the strength of his 19G0 squad. 
In enlarging on this statement, De­vore went on to say that he felt that Notre Dame, as well as many other foot­ball teams, is suffering from the ft-esh-
HUGH DEVORE 
Building for fhe future 

man player's attitude that failure to start or at least play considerably dur­ing his sophomore season makes him a football failure. 
This Devore cited as one of the prin­

•0cipal causes of the failure of this year's Varsity: the predominance of sopho­mores, the large number of juniors, and the scarcity of seniors. He feels the sit­uation should be reversed, with the seniors carrying the brunt of the load, the juniors lending considerable help, and only an occasional sophomore break­ing into the lineup. 
Assisted this fall by Dave Hurd pri­marily, and also Tom Bonofiglio and 
;jDan Deigei-t — all injured scholarship football players — Devore has stressed blocking and tackling, and has tried to instill in his squad the fundamentals of Coach Joe Kuharich's winged-T of­fense. 
On a squad which has 40 of its 54 members on full scholarships, and an­other five on partial scholarships, De-
Jvor e feels that his ends and guards give indication of offering the most imme­diate help to the Varsity. "With the others," he says, "it's just a question of perserverance. They should all make it eventually." 
Asked to name some individual stand­-outs, Devore declined, stating that "We've only worked among ourselves. You can't really say one player is bet­ter than another until they've been tested under fire in a game." 
This year's freshman end corps aver­ages 209 pounds per man. The largest of these are Tom Sessi and Jim Snow-den. Sessi stands 6-3 and hails from Weirton, West Virginia. Snowden is an inch taller at 6-4, and lives in Youngs­town, Ohio, where he played his high school ball at East Youngstown High School. Both weigh 225 pounds. Other ends are Tom Gobei-ville, 6-3 and 200 pounds, from Chicago Mendel; Jim Kelly, 6-2 and 195 pounds, from Clair-ton, Pennsylvania; 6-2, 210 pound John Meyer from Chicago Brother Rice; Joe Monahan, 6-2, 195 pounds, who played his high school ball in Ar­eola, Illinois; John Muri-ay, 6-1 and 210 pounds, from Newark, N. J. John Simon, 6-3, 218 pounds, a resident of St. Louis, Missoui-i; and Warren Stephens, a 6-3, 200-pounder from Burlingame, Cali­fornia. 
The tackles on this year's f i-osh squad are huge: seven of the eight tackles weigh 220 or over. They are: Grant Abrahamson, Deerfield, Illinois; George Bednar of Shavertown, Pennsylvania; Dave Humenik from Port Vue, Penn­sylvania; John Knight, Pacoima, Cali­fornia; Greg Maclnnis of San Fi-an­cisco; Dan Reardon from Chicago Leo; and Scotty Videmschek of St. Louis. The lone tackle under 200 pounds is Warren Sanger, a 190-pounder from New York City. 
Of the ten guards on the freshman squad Tom Finnei^an and Marty Olosky are the heaviest at 225 pounds, while Finnei-an is two inches taller than Olosky at 6-3. Finneran hails from Mt. Vernon, N. Y., and Olosky is a native of Flint, Michigan. Franz Fleischli of Springfield, Illinois, is the smallest of the guard coi'ps at 5-9 and 195 pounds. Other guards are Wayne Allen of Wil­mington, Delaware; John Anton of St. Louis, Missouri; Mike DiCarlo, Clair-ton, Pennsylvania; Nick Etten, Chicago St. Ignatius; Phil Kienast, from Ocono­mowoc, Wisconsin; Rudy Mai'shaiek of Bentleyville, Pennsylvania; and Eon Vomero of Erie, Pennsylvania. 
The 1960 frosh squad has four center candidates. Bill Burns is 6-1 and 195 pounds from Philadelphia. Boyd Ja­jesnica of Manchester, New Hampshire scales 215 pounds and stands 6-2. Bob Lesko at 6-0 and 215 pounds from Homestead, Pennsylvania and Pat Ke­neally, 6-2 and 215 pounds, from New York City round out the center roster. 
This season's freshman quarterbacks are Frank Budka, Jay Gamble, Tom Meagher, Bill Pfeiffer, Denny Szot, and Wayne Zdanomcz. All are six feet tall or over with the exception of Gamble, who stands 5-10, and played his high school ball in Salt Lake City, Utah. Budka, from Pompana Beach, Florida, scales 180. Gamble weighs in at 175, and Meagher from Louisville goes 165. Pfeiffer fi-om Chicago DePaul and Szot from Chicago Mendel are the biggest at 195 pounds, while Zdanowicz weighs 180. 
The 1960 Irish Freshman Team roster includes twelve halfbacks, ranging in weight from 165 to 200 pounds. They in­clude John Barnard, of Kansas City; Joe Farrell of Chicago Mendel; Frank Fee of Rockville Center, N. Y.; Mike Jordan, Logansport, Indiana; Tom MacDonald from Downey, California; Bill Mundee, Cedar Lake, Indiana; Jim Nugent of Redbank, N. J.; John Robinson of New Britain, Connecticut, one of the fastest men on the squad; Bob Secret of Clarks­burg, West Virginia; Alan Sepsi of Brownsville, Pennsylvania; Bob Simms from St. Michael, Minnesota; and Mike Walusis of Dayton, Ohio. 
Devore has three fullbacks under his tutelege, two of them over 200 pounds. At 6-4 and 230 pounds, Paul Costa of Portchester, N. Y., is the most massive fullback at Noti'e Dame in a good many years, and adds good speed to his size to make him a sound prospect. Joe Kantor from Cleveland St. Ignatius goes 6-1 and 205 pounds, and the third fullback, John Prusmack of Garden City, N. Y., stands 5-11 and weighs 191. 

DAVE HURD 
Guidance for freshmen 

Commenting on a Time Magazine arti­cle that said Notre Dame was no longer able to recruit good football players be­cause of discipline and academics, De­vore said, "I don't think it's true. There have always been players we couldn't touch. This years freshman team shows we're still getting good men." 
NOTRE DAME LIKES TO PLAY THE BEST 
- FOR MANY YEARS — SUCCESSFULLY * 
This is a statement that liistory backs up, even though some of the "best" teams of earlier years have changed status. The fact remains that through 50 yearsy and different coaches, under different Notre Dame administrations, losing and making money, before large crowds and before negligible crowds, the Notre Dame record has been a consistent one, as a sampUng indicates: 
1909 (Coach Longman) 1930 (Coach Rockne) 1st Season 1935 (Coach Layden) Notre Dame. 58 Olivet ... 0 in the N.D. Stadium Notre Dame-. 28 Kansas 7 Notre Dame 14 Carnegie Tech 3
Notre Dame. 60 Rose Poly ...11 Notre Dame... ?n So. Methodist 14 Notre Dame.. 27 Wisconsin 0Notre Dame 17 Mich. State ... 0 Notre Dame... _.26 Navy 2 Notre Dame.. 9 Pittsburgh 6Notre Dame 6 Pittsburgh ... 0 Notre Dame... ?0 Carnegie Tech 6 Notre Dame 14 Navy 0
Notre Dame... 3.") Pittsburgh 19 
Notre Dame II Michigan ... 3 Notre Dame 18 Ohio State 13 
Notre Dame... ?7 Indiana 0
Notre Dame. .46 Miami (O.) ... ... 0 Notre Dame. 7 Northwestern 14 
Notre Dame... fiO Pennsylvania 20 
Notre Dame 38 Wabash ... 0 Notre Dame. 6 Army .. 6
Notre Dame 7R Drake .. 7
Notre Dame 0 Marquette -. 0 Notre Dame.. 20 So. Cal 13_ 
Notre Dame 14 Northwestern 0 Notre Dame 7 Array 6 
1920 (Coach Rockne) Notre Dame _.27 So. Cal. 0 1943 (Coach Leahy) War Year 
Notre Dame 39 Kalamazoo ... 0 Notre Dame. .41 Pittsburgh 0 
Notre Dame. 42 West. Mich. ... ... 0 Notre Dame 55 Georgia Tech 13 
Notre Dame. 16 Nebraska _. 7 Notre Dame. 35 Michigan 12 
Notre Dame. 50 Wisconsin 0Notre Dame 28 Valparaiso ... 3 All-Time Record Notre Dame 47 Illinois 0Notre Dame 27 Army ...17 
Winning Percentage Notre Dame. 33 Navy 6Notre Dame. 28 Purdue ... 0 Notre Dame. 26 Army ..... 0 Notre Dame......l3 Indiana ...10; 
1887 to I960 Notre Dame. 25 Northwestern 8 
Notre Dame 14 Iowa Pre-Flight ....13^j 1924 (Coach Rockne) {Excluding ties) 801 Notre Darae. 14 Great Lakes 19* Notre Dame. 40 Lombard .. 0 
Coach Rockne '... .898 
Notre Dame. 34 Wabash .. 0 1957 (Coach Brennan) Notre Dame. 13 Army .. 7 Coach Leahy 888 Notre Dame. 12 Purdue 0 Notre Dame 12 Princeton Notre Dame. 26 Indiana _... 0
.. 0 Coach McKeever* 800 
Notre Dame. 34 Georgia Tech .. .. 3 Notre Dame. 23 Army „...2l 
Coach Layden 783 Notre Dame. 13 Pittsburgh 7Notre Dame 38 Wisconsin .. 3 Notre Dame. 6 Navy .....20 
Notre Dame. 34 Nebraska .. 6 Coach Devore* .778 
Notre Dame 6 Mich. State .... .....34 
Notre Dame 13 Northwestern .. .. 6 Coach Anderson 640 Notre Dame 7 Oklahoma 0Notre Dame. .40 Carnegie Tech .19 
Notre Dame. 13 Iowa .._.21#) 
Coach Brennan .640 
Notre Dame. 27 Stanford* .10 Notre 
Dame 40 So. Cal. ^^. .....12 *—^Rose Bowl *—War Years, 1944 and 1945 Notre Dame 54 So. Methodist _...21 
ALUMNUS Magazine Entered as Second Class matter October 1, 1939, at the Post Office, 
Vol. 38, No. 5 
Notre Dame, Ind., under the act oJM 

December, 1960 
August 24, 1912. 

Notre Dame, Ind. 
Return postage guaranteed 
UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 1917-1961 
a  
'3 m  MEMORIAL LIBRARY 1962­ 
9  

JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 
Editor 
JOHN F. LAUGHLIN,'48 
Managing Editor 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 


Sdltorial Comment 
Officers 

from your Alumni Secretary 
I would like to extend a special word of appreciation to the 1.574 priests and brothers, and to the 1,449 nuns who are alumni and alumnae of the Universit}- of Notre Dame. 
In the midst of an $18,000,000 fund-raising campaign this may seem like an odd digression into the area of poverty. 
.-Actually it was thinking of our financial problems that brought this group strongly to the front. 
h.% a mark of appreciation, the .'Mumni .'Association and the Univer­sity have designated all of the religious on our mailing list "in good standing," the term used for our contributing lay alumni. 
This was, in its origins, far more than a courtes\' gesture. The histor)' of Notre Dame from 1842 through the latest tremendous grant of the Ford Foundation is replete with indications of an element of support in our his-tor)' that transcends the record of ma­terial support. 
It is ine\'itable that this element must be "answered prayers." 
Prayer is not the monopoly of the religious, and we are not unmindful that students, faculty and lay alumni have also contributed petition and thanksgiving in this endless storming of Heaven to bring the University' of Our Lady appropriate progress. 
For that matter, our religious have also made tangible contribution to the University, in the student recruiting and zealous public relations jobs they have done in everj' comer of America and the far comers of the world. 
But when you see the multiple altars on the campus, the long black lines of brothers moving to and from their chapels, and the multi-habited and multi-colored campus during the sum­mer session, the importance of prayer in the Notre Dame pattern, and the sources from which it draws its pri­mary impetus and strength, become apparent. 
Today, Notre Dame is engaged in the most demanding, the most com­
prehensive, and the most promising 
program in its histors-. 

The dream of a great Catholic uni­versit}' dedicated to Our Lady and extending her influence to the world, through the Catholic education of young men for all walks of life, was present when Father Edward Sorin first stood on the shore of St. Mary's lake in the November snow of 1842. 
Much of what he dreamed has been realized. And fourteen presidents who have followed in his footsteps have added their dreams to his. 
None has dreamed more dramatical­ly than the present President. And none has had the oportunitj' for real­ization so dramatically accelerated. 
AVe are confident that the "program for the future," which is sj-mbolized in the present asking for $18,000,000 to implement its beginnings, will be realized. 
We are confident that the family of Notre Dame will enable the Univer­sit)' to take full advantage of the ac­celeration that can come with the matching gift grants of the Ford Foundation —a minimum of $6,000,­000 within this three-year effort. 
But as the Christmas season ap­proaches, and the generosity of all men is warmed by the mysterj' of the Nati\'itj', I can see the reUgious family of Notre Dame kneeling in the chapels and the convents of the world, add­ing their prayers for this miracle of Our Lady that is Notre Dame. 
In addidon to wishing them, and all of you, the richest joys of this Christmas Season, I am impelled to add a special appreciation for the sig­nificance that I am sure these prayers will have in the success ahead. This has been the long history of Notre Dame — the guiding hand of God and His Blessed Mother. In the changing and increasing material demands of a changing world, this is a constant and a fixed value, immeasurable in its worth, indispensable in our pattern. 
WILLIAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 
honorary President JOHN C. O'CO.VNOR, '38 PresidetJ^ JAMES H . SHEILS, '35—Club Vice-President JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22 
Class Vice-President PAUL J. CUSHIXO, '31—Fund Vice-President JAMES E. .ARMSTRO.NG, '25 Secretary 


Directors to 1961 

JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22 Kansas City Life Insurance Co. ^ Box 139 Kansas City 41, Missouri 1 
JoHX P. DEMPSEV, '49* Kidder, Peabody & Co. 129 S. Broad St., Philadelphia 9, Pa. 
JAMES H. SHEILS, '35 McManus and Walker 39 Broadway, New York, New York 
JOHN C. O'CONNOR, '38 1000 Fidelity Trust Bldg. Indianapolis, Indiana 

Directors to 1962 g 

JAMES J. BYRNE, '43 Byrne Plywood Company Roj-al Oak, Michigan 
PAUL J. GUSHING, '31 Hydraulic Dredging Co., Ltd. 14th & Broadway, Oakland, Calif. 
WALTER FLEMING, JR., '40 Fleming & Sons, Inc. 
P.O. Box 1291, Dallas, Texas 

W. EDMUND SHEA, '23 Third National Building Dayton 2, Ohio ^ 

Directors to 1963 

MAURICE J. CARROLL, '19 4944 Lindell Blvd., St Louis 8, Missouri 
GEORGE L. CONNOR, '48 209 S. LaSallc St., Room 716 Chicago 4, 111. 
WILLIAM P. MAHONEV. JR., '38 612 Arizona Bank Building, Phoenix. Ariz. 
HARRY J. MEHRE, '22 72 EIe\cnth St., N.E., Suite 12 ^ Atlanta 9, Ga. • 

Chairmen of the 1960 Committees 
J. C. O'CONNOR Executive 
J. H. SHEILS Club Activities 
J. R. STEWART. Class Activities 
P. J. GUSHING 
Alumni Fund, Foundation and Gifts 

J. J. BYRNE Preparatory Schools 
W. L. FLEMI.N'G 
Placement and Job Counseling 

J. J. BYRNE. Tnter-Alumni Affairr 
J. R. STEWAsr-Prestige and Public Relations 
J. H . SHEILS Religion and Citizenship 
J. R. STEWART AND 
J. H . SHEILS Nominations 

W. E. SHEA Budget and Finance 
W. E. SHEA Resolutions 
•
Appointed to fill the tinexpired term of Charles 

E.
 Rohr, '30, deceased. ^ 


This magazjoe is published bi-montfalr by 
the University of Notre Dame, Notxe 
Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­
ter Oct. I, 1939, at the Post Office, Notic 
Dame, Ind. tmder the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

S) 
i%fS^ 



George N. Shuster, '15, Returns to N.D. Campus 
Internationally Honored Educator Will Serve as Special Assistant 
DR. SHUSTER accepts the 1960 Laetare Medal from the hands of Father Hesburgh at last June's Commencement e-verciscs. 
The appointment of Dr. George N. Shuster, '15, as assistant to the president and professor of English at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame was announced effective January 8. 
Shuster served for twenty years as president of Hunter College, New York City, retiring last March. By presiden­fjdal appointment he is the U.S. repre­sentative on the executive board of the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization^UNESCO). Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, Notre Dame president, said the Uni­versity is "e.\tremely fortunate to have so distinguished a scholar and educator join its faculty and administration." He 
c*aid Dr. Shuster's principal responsi­oility will be to initiate special research projects in the humanities and social sciences at Notre Dame. The Univer­sity will intensify its research in these areas as a participant in The Ford Foundation's new Special Program in Education. Shuster, who is a Notre Dame alum­
•"^us, is a trustee of and consultant to the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, the National Educational Television Institute, the Carnegie En­dowment for International Peace, the Institute of International Education and several other organizations, and a ^irector of Britannica Films, Inc. He is 
"he author of a number of books, the most recent being Education and Moral Wisdom. 
Last June Shuster was awarded Notre Dame's Laetare Medal which is ^presented annually to an outstanding 
American Catholic layman. The pres­
entation was made in the presence of 
President Eisenhower at the school's 
115th annual commencement. On that 
occasion the veteran educator was cited 
"for your moving and life-long effort to 
maintain the beauty and responsibility 
of our spiritual and human inheritance 
in the midst of a century increasingly 
alienated from it." 
George Nauman Shuster was bom in Lancaster, AVisconsin, Aug. 27, 1894. He was graduated from Notre Dame and, after serving with the U.S. Army during World War I, returned to the campus to receive a master's degree in French literature in 1920. During the next four years he served as head of Notre Dame's English department and associate editor of the Ave Maria, a weekly magazine published by the Holy Cross Fathers. 
Shuster was one of the first contrib­utors to The Commonweal, the lay-edited Catholic weekly, and served as its managing editor from 1929 to 1937. He was awarded a two-year fellowship to study the Weimar Republic, return­ing to the United States before the out­break of World War II to earn his doctorate at Columbia University. 
He became academic dean and act­ing president of Hunter College in 1939 and was named president the following year. During his twenty-year tenure in that office, the enrollment of Hunter College grew from 11,000 to 17,000. Twenty-nine of Dr. Shuster's fellow college presidents attended a special convocation last year when he was awarded the third honorary d^ree in the school's 90-year history. 
Dr. Shuster is the author of numer­ous books and articles in the fields of education, religion, English literature and modem German history. He was State Commissioner for Bavaria in the 
U.S. Zone of Germany during 1950-51 and has served as an American dele­gate to international culttiral confer­ences on several occasions. He is a former president of the Catholic Asso­ciation for International Peace. He has been awarded France's L^o n of Honor, the Great Cross of Merit of the Austrian Republic, the Commander's Cross of the Order of Merit of the West German Federal Republic, and Coliun­bia University's Butler Medal as well as several honorary degrees. 
Shuster and his wife, the former Doris Parks Cunningham of Los An­geles, a Saint Mary's College (Notre Dame, Ind.) graduate, will soon es­tablish a home in South Bend. They have one son, Robert. 
WILLIAM V. SHAKESPEARE, '36, was named to Silver Annivenary All America by the editors of Sports Illustrated nug­azine. Bill, now president of Cincimuiti Rubber Manufacturing Co., was recognized for World War II heroism and his achieve­ments in the business world since throwing a winning touchdown pass in the closii^ seconds of the 1933 Ohio State football game. 
Year End, 1960 
• 



Zhe Unimslty Zoday 
FACULTY-ADMINISTRATION 

Father Wilson to Head $18 Million Program 
The appointment of Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C, as director of The Notre Dame Foundation was announced on November 22 by Father Hesburgh. 
The Foundation, which has a professional staff of eleven laymen, 
co-ordinates Notre Dame's public relations and de\-elopment activi­ties. It currently is engaged in a three-year, $18 million fund-rais­ing program which includes the §8 million Notre Dame Memorial Librar)- to be built beginning next year. 
Father Wilson had been scr\'­ing as acting director of Notre Dame's development program since September, 1959, when Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, former president of the University, re­linquished the post. Previously 
_ T , -TT T.7-1 ,-1 o /-I Father Wilson served as Assistant Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.a ,^ ^^ President, and he will re­tain that title. Father Hesburgh said. 
A native of Chicago, 111., Father Wilson was graduated from Notre Dame as a laj-man in 1932. He received a law degree from the Chicago-Kent College of Law in 1934 and entered the novi­tiate of the Congregation of Holy Cross the same year. He was ordained to the priesthood in Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame on June 15, 1941. For t\velve years he %vas director of vocations for the Holy Cross Fathers. He was also associated for a year with The Catholic Boy, a youth publication. Father Wilson was assistant director of the Holy Cross Fathers' Office of Province Development when he was named a presidential assistant at Notre Dame in 1958. 
Hamilton Directs Radio-TV Operation 
William Thomas Hamilton has been appointed general manager of the Michiana Telecasting Corporation which operates WNDU-TV and WNDU Radio. 
Hamilton's appointment was announced by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, executive vice president of the Universit>' and secre­tary- of the corporation. The veteran broadcasting executive had been sen'ing as acting general manager since the death of Bernard 
G. Earth in September, 1959. A native of Chicago, Hamilton came to WNDU-T\' as sales manager six months before the station went on the air in 1955. He ser\'cd five years as TV sales manager and as general manager of WNDU Radio. With a total of 23 years in broadcasting, Hamilton formerly 
ser\'cd in New York City as an account executive with CBS, ABC Radio, NBC Spot Sales, WOR and WNEW. 

Keegan Named Assistant Arts and Letters Dean 
The appointment of Dr. Francis L. Keegan as assistant dean of the College of .^rts and Letters was announced December 7 by Rev. Chester A. Solcta, C.S.C, vice president for academic affairs. 
Keegan, who has been teaching at Notre Dame since 1957, is an associate professor in the General Program of Liberal Education and a staff member of the Jacques Maritain Center. He has also been associated with Re%'. John J. Ca\-anaugh, G.S.G., former presi­dent of the Universitj-, in conducting evening Executive Seminars for area business and professional leaders. 
Father Soleta said Keegan will help Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C, dean, and Prof. Devcre Plunkctt, assistant dean, in the administration of Notre Dame's liberal arts school. The additional assistant dean's post was created, he said, because the enrollment of the college has increased by 700 students since 1954. 
Keegan also will head a newly appointed Special Committee which will conduct a year-long study of Notre Dame's liberal arts program. Father Soleta said. Other committee members include Edward Fischer, associate professor of communication arts; Rev. Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C, assistant professor of theology; Ralpl^ Mclnemy, assistant professor of philosophy; and Robert Bums, assistant professor of history. 
A native of Santa Rosa, California, Professor Keegan first taught at Notre Dame during 1950-52 while studying for his doctorate. He was a research fellow at the Institute for Philosophical Research, San Francisco, Calif., from 1952 to 1954, an instructor at City College of San Francisco during 1954-55, and associate director of the St. Mar>''s College (Moraga, Calif.) Curriculum Study from 1955 until rejoining the Notre Dame faculty in 1957. 

Commerce Heads Resign for Business, Teaching 
Two department heads of the College of Commerce resigned before the opening of the current academic >-ear in order to de­vote more time to their teaching and business pursuits. Prof. James Dincolo resigned as head of the department of accountancy. Dincolo, who has headed the department since 1946, will continue as a faculty member at the Universit>'. Dr. Ray M. Powell has been ser\'ing as acting department head since September 1. 
A specialist in tax accounting. Professor Dincolo received th ^ Notre Dame Lay Faculty Award for outstanding service to thP University at the 1956 commencement. He Joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1937 and became a certified public accountant four years later. Widely known in accounting circles throughout the Midwest, he is a partner in the South Bend accounting firm of Dincolo and Christman. 
Professor Dincolo was educated at Boston University where he received his undergraduate and master's degrees. Before coming to Notre Dame, he taught at St. John's University, Collegeville, Minn., and the University of Puerto Rico. He is a member of the American Institute of Accountants, the Indiana .\cademy of Sociiji Sciences and the American Accountants Association. 
Powell joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1959 after receiving a doctorate in business administration at Indiana University. He has specialized in cost and managerial accounting as well as in administrative policy. He is the author of the forthcoming book 
Administering the Going Concern: Cases in Business Policy. 
The resignation of Prof. LeClair H. Eells as head of the de­partment of finance and business economics at the University of Notre Dame ^vas also announced. Eells, who has headed the department for ten years, will continue as a member of the con w merce school facultj-. * 
A native of New Hartford, Iowa, Professor Eells has been teaching at Notre Dame since 1930, specializing in banking and foreign trade. He regularly teaches courses in "Fiscal Policy" and "International Finance." He is the chairman of a three-man faculty committee administering the College of Commerce Advisor)­Council Investment Fund. 
Prof. Eells took his undergraduate studies at Iowa State Teachers College and received a master's degree from the Han-ard Graduat^ School of Business Administration in 1928. He did additional graduate work at Northwestern University. 
_He is a former president of the Indiana Academy of Social Sciences and a member of the American Economic Association and the American Finance Association. 
(Continued on page 10) M 
4 Year End, I960 
i» 




BALLOTING HEAVY FOR ALUMNI BOARD 
At their autumn meeting, the Board of Directors for the Notre Dame Alumni Association nominated eight candidates for member­ship in that body in 1961. Two committees operating independently 
rjelccted candidates and alternates from the many recommendations 
•^of the Notre Dame Clubs and Glasses, and their choices were en­dorsed by the board as representing the widest possible cross section of geographical representation and class membership among men of equally demonstrated abilities. The candidates were notified and 
their names submitted to the Alumni Association membership on a ballot in December to determine which four men would take ofHcc on January 19, 1961, for a three-year term on the board. 
Balloting has been heavy, and all the candidates have received a record vote. The four winners will be announced shortly. Mean­while, since pictures were not available at the time the ballot was printed, all eight candidates are pictured below. 
Carroll, Thomas 
Salina, Kans. 
A.B. (Economics cum laude) 1951. Xotre Dame Foundation staff 1951-53. Dumore Co., Ra­cine, Wis., 1953-59, Vice-Pres. sales 1959, Exec. Vicc-Prcs. Mas­ter Mfg. Co., Hutchinson, Kan.; 1959. Married (Jane Flynn, St. Mar>**s '55) two children, son 3 and daughter 1J4- Undergraduate activities: Freshman Class Presi­
dent ; Junior Class Secretary; Blue Circle Chairman; Student Coun­cil; Economics Round Table; Y.C.S.; Bengal Bouts; Freshman Baseball; Dome Award. 
Crowley, Anthony W. 
Evansville, Ind, 
LL.B. 1935. President, McNamar and Crowley, Inc., mfrs. steel tanks, Salem, III. (and E^'ansville, Ind.); oil producer one year, two years with oi! subsidiaries Re­public and Bethlehem Steel; opened steel plate fabricating business 1938 and reorganized as president 1942; pies. Cromac Oil Co., Pyramid Royalty Co., vice-pres. United Gas &. Equipment Co.; past Exalted Ruler Elks, past Prcs. C. of C ; active Boy Scouts; X.D. Man-of-thc-Ycar 1953; married (Lil>'an), son, two daughters. 
Dempsey, John P. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

Ph.B. Comin. 1949. Investment banker, Kidder, Peabody &. Co., manager municipal bond depart­ment, Philadelphia. .\rmy 1943­46, sergeant ETO, two personal. decorations. Married (Xancy), one son and three daughters. Past President Philadelphia Club, Foundation Chairman, Man-of­ihe-Year 1954. Philadelphia rep­resentative X.D. Athletic Depart­ment. Appointed to fill unexpired 
term Attmini Board late Charles Rohr. Undergraduate activities: 
Pres. Phihdclphia Club, Ch. Stu­dent Relief Comm. -
Dougherfy, Patrick A. 
Twin Cities, Minn, 
B, S. M.E. 1950. Pres. Patrick A. Dougherty, Inc., food brokers, ^[inneapolis, Alinn., Secy.-Treas. lake Region Inc., food distribut­ing company; graduate St. Thom­. as Academy; veteran \VorId ^Var II, paratroops, discharged rank of Captain; past president Notre Dame Twin Cities Club; past Minneapolis N.D. Foundation Chairman; president XaUvity Men's Club; married (Frances), four children, three beys, one girl; hobbies — hunting, fishing, flying (Pilots Corporate Aircraft). 

Fallon, William  H.  Hunter, Oliver  H.  Klein,  Harold  P.  Toomey, Timothy J.  
^e w  York,  N.Y.  New  Castle,  Pa.  Des Moines, la.  Boston,  Mass.  
A.B.  1937. Gen. Sales Mgr. Flinn  B.S.  For.  Comm.  1943. Senior  B.C.S. 1926. Senior wee-president  Ph.B.  Comm.  1930. Compensa­ 
Motor  Corp.  (10 years). New  Resident Agent F.B.I., New Cas­ lowa-Dcs ^loines National  Bank,  tions Claims Mgr. Am. Casualty  
Rochclle.  N.Y.; U.S. Army  5  tle,  Pa.; Brooklyn  I-aw Scliool;  Des Moines. Joined bank as bond  Co.,  Boston, ^fass.  Insurance 30  
years,  major;  graduate  Adjutant  U.S.  Navy,  Pacific  operations  salesman  in 1926, assistant  cash­ years,  courses N.Y.U.,  N.Y. In­ 
Gen.  and  Command  and Gen.  World  War II, gunnery  officer;  ier 1933, assistant vice-pres. 1936,  stitute  of  Ins.,  and  Harvard;  
Staff  schools;  Eisenhower  staff  current  president  Class  of 1943;  vice-prcs.  1946,  director  1957;  Secy.  N.D. Club  Boston;  chair­ 
ETO;  vice-prcs. Natl.  Monogram  N.D.  Foundation governor North­ Man-of-the-Ycar Des Moines Club  man  communion  breakfast 1959;  
Club; N.Y. Man-of-the-Ycar 1955;  western  Pa.; track  team  1941-43,  1960;  vice-prcs. Northwest  Equity  editor  founder  Boston  Club  let­ 
^'.D .  Club ol N.Y. board of gov­ All-American  two miler 1942 and  Co.  (Minneapolis); prcs. C. of C.  ter; member N.Y. Club 24 years,  
ernors 10 years, Prcs. Club 1958;  1943;  vice-president Junior Class;  1945;  director  Catholic  Charities  director  3  times,  secretary  3  
active  Scvcnllv  Regiment,  New  Byron  V. Kanaley  award 1&43;  Des  Moines  diocese  1944-46;  years;  war  service  Oak  Ridge  
York  A.C., Wcsiclicstcr  Sports  pres.  campus  Monogram  Club  treas.,  dir. and nce-pres. U.S..  atomic  cncrg>*  phmt;  vice-prcs.  
Forum,  Touchdown  Club N.Y.,  and  vice-prcs.  Junior  Class;  Junior  C. ol  C. 1931-36; Des  Class  of  1930; K. of  C ;  Holy  
Natl.  Football  Hall  of  Fame,  ser\ed with F.B.I, in Washington,  Moines  Chairman  N.D. Founda­ Name; undergraduate-waiter,  flag  
American  Legion,  Elks.  Captain  N.Y.  City,  Miami,  and  Pitts­ tion;  married  (Winifred)  two  raiser,  St. Mary's,  Blue  Cirde,  
N.D.  tennis  team,  managers or- burgh;  married  (Mar>')  three  sons  N.D.  '59  and  '62, t^vo  interhall  sports.  Unmarried,  8  
nkanization.  children.  daughters.  godchildren.  
Year  End,  1960  5  

POET 
with a 

BLOWTORCH 
Son of Rockne Gridder, David Hayes, '21, Has Received Quick Recognition for Sculpture in Forged and Welded Steel 
DR. IVAN MESTROVIC, foremost religious sculptor, is part of a Notre Dame tradition that includes the late Eugene Komicndi and his successor in University's art department, Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C. 
The hammer and forge, all-but-for­gotten implements of the village blacky smith, and the welding torch of the plumber and pipefitter are instruments of a subtle and striking contem­porar)' art in the hands of David V. Hayes, '53. The young sculptor, only a few years off the campus, is fast achieving world-wide recognition as a leader in a relatively new art medium^ sculpture in forged and welded steel. 
Bom in Hartford and reared in Manchester, Conn., Dave is one of the Notre Dame-educated sons of the late 
DAVID VINCENT HAYES, JR., '53 In Thomist Tcniis, the .Artist as Artisan 

beloved Rockne-era football star of the same name. He now lives and works in nearby Coventiy, Conn., huf^ his name and work are beginning to appear across the U.S. and Europe. 
A promising sculpture student o' Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C, Da\­was encouraged to take graduate wor: at Indiana University with Robei: Laurent and David Smith, from whon; he developed his fondness for the ad­vantages and potential of metal as . • direct sculpture material although lu still worked with wood and clay. H' received his master's degree in fine ai and had his first one-man show Bloomington in 1955. Some of h: early work was exhibited in BostoiiV SwetzofT Gallery in 1956. M 
From 1955 to 1957 he was in the 

U.S. Navy, spending a year in tlie Mediterranean. Perhaps close associa­tion with ships of die fleet unconscious­ly increased hb admiration for tightly welded steel. At any rate, he was baclj 
6 Year End, I960 

in Manchester in 1957, and from his workshop in Hartford's Fuller Welding Company came dozens of studies and compositions in sheet iron and steel in a flurr)' of creativity from which he dates his most original and imaginative work. It won him places in the col­'Jections of the Solomon R. Guggen­heim Museum and the Museum of Modern Art in New York, Pittsburgh's Carnegie Institute, Hartford's Wads­worth Atheneum, the Addison Gallerj' of American Art, Andover, Mass., New York's \Villard Galleiy, and other pri­vate collections: commissions for sculp­
'"lure in homes and churches from his native Connecticut to Arizona; prizes in the New Haven Festival of the Arts (best in show, 1958-59-60) and the Rhode Island Arts Festival, Providence (first prize, graphics, I960): one-man shows at Wesleyan University, New London's Lyman Allyn Museum and, at last, in New York. 
"f The New York showing, as it has been for all 20th century artists, was a milestone. It was a "New Talent" exhibition in the Penthouse of the Mu­seum of Modern Art, a vehicle for de­ser\'ing artists — no matter what their age or reputation elsewhere — who had not had major one-man shows in the Mecca of Manhattan. Eleventh of a ^eries instituted in 1950, it was the first in the two yean and the first to spot­light the work of a single artist. Ex­hibition curator Peter Selz and his as­sistant Alicia Legg selected a group of seven steel sculptures and 14 drawings, some of them studies for sculpture, which showed the full scope of Dave's unique art. No abstract obscurantist, 
i'Sie drew his inspiration directly from 
SCREEN OF PAR/\BLES (1958), commis­
sion for the Catholic Transcript office build­
ing, Hartford, Conn., symboliics Holy 7-^ Scripture in six graceful panels. 
ANIMAL AND YOUNG (1957), eco­nomically blending maternal tenderness and ursine bulk, was exhibited during the for­mal opening of the new Solomon R. Gug­genheim Museum in New York. 
nature and legend, human and animal —domesticated animals, animals of the jungle and mythology, totems of Indian lore. The figures ranged in height from two to seven feet and already com­manded prices from $500 to $1500; drawings in pencil, ink, watercolor and gouache were almost within an alumnus' reach, from $40 to $80. Of the sculptor Selz said, "his figures show an axcellent sense of sculptural form and a mastery of the forging technique which make him one of the most de­serving young artists in America to­day." 
David's "arrival" continued in 1960 with work represented in an exhibit called "Recent Sculpture USA," again sponsored by the Museum of Modern .Art — New York's most extensive sur­vey of avant-garde sculpture in many yeare. Painting and sculpture chairman James Thrall Soby and curator Dor­othy C. Miller chose two of Dave's pieces among 79 selected from a field of more than 700 entries from all over the United States. One of them was the menacing Beast (1957), acquired by the museum for $750. Shown in Manhattan in the spring, the statues later went on a national tour. 
Next to some of the pieces exhibited, Dave's unmistakably modem forms looked almost academic. To those un­familiar with trends of die "new sculp­ture," some of the materials used seemed more at home in a junkyard than in a galler\- or studio. There were a few pieces in traditional marble or bronze, but most were of welded steel, iron, plexiglas, Fiberglas, and scrap metal shaped in abstract, expressionist or surrealist styles. If the materials seemed harsh or ugly to the unprac­ticed eye, the subjects were even fur­ther from the heroic figures of Greek and Roman anuquity, of Michelan­gelo's Renaissance, or the romantic and neo-classical masses of Rodin or Notre Dame's Ivan Mestrovic. Even the recognizable shapes were often emaciat­ed, hole-riddled or otherwise distorted. 
Although his work is relatively quiet and graceful, Dave's techniques are boldly contemporary, and he defends them vigorously: "It takes less time working with contemporary metal than working in clay and then casting in bronze. It's less costly and we can get the desired effect quite readily. 
"We are part of a mechanical civi­lization," he says, "and we must par­take of our age — use materials avail­able to us. ^\'e would be untrue to our age if we didn't avail ourselves of the facilides at hand." 
Dave feels that steel is also more durable than the conventional stone or bronze; cold, hard and unyielding, it somehow manages to radiate a kind of warmdi in the shapes he molds. Their compact smoothness may be in­fluenced by Father Lauck, Dave's Notre Dame mentor. The figures are par­ticularly attractive in an outdoor set­ting and rust—like the tidily welded seams, a deliberate part of die compo­sition — adds to their charm, as in the abstract seven-foot Animal Totem (1958) or the Addison Gallery's tawny Lion (1957). The latter, tense and kingly with a thrashing angle-iron tail and head sketched in with a truncated 
BEAST (1957), a forged steel piece con­veying taurine power, is in the collection of New York's Museum of Modern Art, re­cently wound up a cross-country tour en­titled "Recent Sculpture U.S.A." 
Year End, I960 
CHIMERA (1957), fantastic creature of fable forged in steel, is currently on exhibit in a show of contemporary American sculp­ture in Paris. 
mane, needed only oxidation to com­plete the impression. 
A strictly personal touch that makes Dave's art so individual is a quiet, con­scious humor that pervades his work. Absent at least consciously in most contemporary art, it is manifest to any family man in the tender comedy of Womati Dressing (1958) or Pregnant Woman (1957). It is a gentle irony in the Guggenheim collection's Animal and Young (1957). Muted and innate in studies of horses, cows or goats, it can become extravagantly whimsical in his animals of fable—totemic figures, the mythical Minotaur and unicorn, or hb fantastic Chimera (1957), which won the Connecticut Academy of Fine Arts sculpture prize in a show at the Wadsworth Atheneum and recendy went to Paris for an exhibition. 
Most of tlie works mentioned repre­sent only one facet of Dave's art. His religious work is t)'pified by the Screen of Parables he executed for the recep­tion counter of Hartford's Catholic Transcript office building, sjTnbolically interpreting six parables from the New Testament and a sign of the Resurrec­tion— again in sculptured metal. A silhouette in forged steel with some sections of bronze patina, the design was shaped from sheets of steel which he cut, heated and hammered into form. Upper left is the "strait" or narrow gate to heaven; upper right, the lamp upon a stand rather than ing tlie parable of workers in the vine­)'ard; right center, stalks of wheat sym­bolizing seed springing up on good ground and bearing fruit; lower left, a lamb signif)'ing Christ both as Vic­tim and Good Shepherd; and lower right, 10 gold coins representing 10 talents given by the master to his ser­vants. In the center, holding the sec­tions together, is the sign of Jonas im­prisoned in the whale and after three days set free — a s)'mbol of Christ's own Resurrection. 
Most of Dave's work is semi-abstract or impressionistic, eliminating detail in order to present essences with greater directness and simplicity. All artists in tliis genre are constantly accused by Phillistines of being unable to depict a subject "as it really is." In anodier facet of his work Dave has taken up the unbeliever's challenge to exact representation. His fierce Hawk and Prey (1960), again in finely forged steel, limns the predator}' bird with all the naturalistic detail of an Audu­bon watercolor without sacrificing his characteristic grasp of his subject's es­sential rapacity. No wonder it is cur­rently being sent around the country in a traveling exhibition sponsored by the Smithsonian Institute. 

Evident in all of this is a shining integrity, but perhaps integrity is more natural to a sculptor. VVhetlier he whittles on wood or chips at granite with a hammer and chisel, molds in clay for a bronze casting or — like David Hayes — shapes hot steel with hammer and tongs, he is primarily M workman, an artisan or maker of Aristotelian-Thomistic category. Since Leonardo da Vinci dismissed the me­tier as inferior because a sculptor gets his hands dirty, painters have become more and more esoteric in their ap­proach to their art. Fancying the role of poet and seer, many wallowed ii^ their "truth" and became increasingly false to their materials. Sculptors through the ages have been forced to remain faidiful to their materials, but their extra dimension in space has per­mitted perhaps a more consistent and tangible poetr>'. 
Dave Hayes strives for die poetry in his Coventry studio. Married now (ti^ the former Julia Moriarty of Man­chester) and the father of a real-life child, he condnues to forge the children of his fertile imagination, achieving his "truth" with discipline, economy and a minimum of allegory as a "poet with a blowtorch." 
LATE DAVE HAYES, SR., (shown on right  with an Array nemesis, Elmer Oliphant) 
hidden beneath a bushel; left center, 

was a Notre Dame football legend between 1917 and 1921, may have inOuenced his son's 
a vine with clusters of grapes depict-

fondness for legendary subjects before his death in 1936. ^ 
Year End, 1960 

N OTRE DAME 
BOOKS 
EDUCATION AND MORAL WISDOM 

Essaj-s by George N. Shuster, '15. New 
York: Harper & Bros., 1960. ^ This widely applauded volume on -the meaning of education in today's 
world is the most recent work of the former president of Hunter College and editor of The Commonweal, now re­turned to the Notre Dame faculty and representing the United States in the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. 
L* 
DISCOVERY AND OTHER POEMS 

Vei-se by Samuel Hazo, '48. New York: Sheed & Ward, 1960. 
An inexpensive paperback in a new S & \V poetr)' series, the book has re­ceived great critical approval as the 
„work of a promising new poet, now -^vith the English department of Du­quesne University. 
BARDSTOWN: TOWN OF TRADITION 

A history by Matt Spalding (Brotlier Martin John, '31). Louisville, Ky.: Schumann Printing Co., 1960. 
-* An entertaining chronicle of one of America's most historic communities, the carefully researched and charmingly illustrated book reveals little known ties to national figures, as well as to Notre Dame. It is available in cloth or paper cover. 
3THE LABYRINTHINE WAYS OF GRAHAM GREENE 
A study by Francis L. Kunkel, '43. New York: Sheed & Ward, 1960. 
The author, a member of the Eng­lish department at St. John's Univer­sity, analyzes the novels, "entertain-Tnents," etc., of the celebrated English Catholic. The title, a paraphrase of Francis Thompson's Hound of Heaven used for the firet American edition of The Power and the Glory, is an apt 7-xlescription of the torturous course of 
the convert author's thought and ques­tionings, mirrored in his serious fiction. 
CONSERVATION OF OIL AND GAS: A LEGAL HISTORY— 1948-1958 
Edited by Robert E. Sullivan, '46. Chi­
cago: American Bar Assn., 1960. 
A study of all significant develop­ments in conser\'ation by the Interstate Oil Compact Commission and the Fed­eral Government, the book was pre­pared under the direction of a commit­tee of the Mineral and Natural Re­sources Section of the A.B.A. Sullivan, dean of the Montana State University Law School, is lauded in the foreword for his "care, thoroughness, knowledge and unfailing effort." 
THE SCREEN ARTS: A GUIDE TO FILM AND TELEVISION APPRECIATION 
Nonfiction by Edward A. Fischer, '37, New York: Sheed & Ward, 1960. 
This plea for intelligent viewing hab­its is a quick course for laymen in the technical aspects of motion picture and television production. An associate pro­fessor of communication arts at Notre Dame and author of a weekly movie-TV column for Ave Maria magazine, Fischer draws on production experience. Some technical knowledge is necessary for forming standards, he says, but one could "memorize all the standards ever printed and still have vulgar taste. The capacity to enjoy and appreciate is de­veloped by studying standards and by coming into frequent contact with the best things in the arts, especially under the guidance of a cultivated mind." 
KNUTE ROCKNE 

A biography for ages 10 to 16, by Arthur Daley. New York: Kenedy, 1960. 
Daley, sports columnist for the New York Times, in writing for youngsters, sidesteps the pitfall of making a foot­ball hero into a superhuman nonpareil, according to a Times notice, by choos­ing a subject "who was a nonpareil 
Knute Rockne, '14 and, from all accounts, a great human being. Mr. Daley tells of the Rock's innate intelligence and humor, and his capacity to bring out the best in others." 
A biography for all ages by Francis AVallace, '23. New York: Doubleday and Company, Inc., 1960. 
After 40 years of collecting Rocke lore, Frank Wallace has brought out what appears to be the definitive por­trait of the great mentor from tons of Rockne literature. Inspired by some anecdotes in the "Most Unforgettable Character" piece he uTote in a recent Reader's Digest, AVallace's reminis­cences and retellings deserve a place on the bookshelf of every Rock ad­mirer. The big book has a dedication to James Armstrong, '25, for whose assistance Frank expresses gratitude. 
Frank Wallace, '23 
Year End. I960 

MODERN CATHOLIC THINKERS: 
AN ANTHOLOGY 

AVritings of Catholic autliors and phi­losophers, edited by A. Robert Capo­nigri. London: Bums and Oates. New York: Harper and Brothers, 1960. 
Thirt)'-sbc internationally celebrated writers, many of them well known at Notre Dame, have contributed to this volume of essays, some of which appear for the first time in English, edited by Dr. Caponigri, a professor of phi­losophy at Notre Dame. Rev. Martin D'Arcy, S.J., has written the introduc­tion and contributed an article to the book, which is designed "to illustrate Catholic thought at the frontiers of knowledge in every sphere of charac­teristically Catholic concern." Essa>'s are grouped around seven basic themes: God, the Church, the Politi-' cal Order, History, Religion, Culture, and Witness. Among contributors are Christopher Dawson, Romano Guard­ini, Ettiene Gilson, Waldemar Gurian, Philip Hughes, Jacques and Raissa Maritain, John Courtney Murray, Jo­seph Pieper, Heinrich Rommen, Yves Simon, Luigi Sturzo and Sigrid Undset 
THE FIFTH REPUBLIC 

A political study of modem France, by Ferdinand A. Hermens. Notre Dame, Ind.; University of Notre Dame Press, 1960. 
The towering figure of Charles de Gaulle and his impact on the future of France are analyzed in this study of France's political instability. Dr. Her­mens, a veteran professor of political science at Notre Dame and a specialist in comparative government, believes that General de Gaulle has concen­trated so much power in his person to control the nation's revolutionary forces that the prospects for a transition to institutional government are becoming more remote. Such a transition is vital to the future stability of France, he feels, and can still be accomplished by a democratic electoral system and the development of truly national parties. 
RELIGION IN ALL THE SCHOOLS 
An appeal for religious literacy, by Rev. Leo R. AVard, C.S.C. Notre Dame, Ind.: Fides Publishers, 1960. 
Father AVard, a professor of phi­losophy at Notre Dame, discusses the need for general religious education. "Children leaminar about God and 
10 Year End, 1960 
faith at home and in church have the right to a completer religious literacy in and through their schools, and if children, then also the people and tlie nation." 
BASIC AAARKETING, A AAANAGERIAL APPROACH 

A collie te-Ktbook, by E. Jerome Mc­Carthy. Homewood, III.: Richard 
D. Irwin, Inc., 1960. 

Marketing problems are seen through tlie eyes of a businessman rather tlian tlie ivory tower academician in tliis book which has been adopted as a te.xt by more tlian sixty colleges and universities throughout the country. Dr. McCarthy is an associate professor of marketing management in Notre Dame's College of Commerce. Instead of describing wholesale and retail in­stitutions in terms of size, the book stresses their potential contribution to tlie marketing manager's distribution structure. 
THE GO GO CHICAGO WHITE SOX 

Nonfiction by David Condon, '45. Foreword by Bill Veeck. New York: Coward McCann, 1960. 
In loving detail, the Chicago Tribune columnist traces the Comiskeys from their humble tum-of-the-century be­ginnings, through their darkest hour in 1919, to their great recent success, un­der Paul Richards and Al Lopez, with Minnie, Nellie, Little Louie, Big Klu, etc., culminating in their 1959 pen­nant and heroic defeat at the hands of the Dodgers in the World Series. 
Dave Condon, '45 

UNIVERSITY TODAY . . . 
(Continued from page 4) 
Five New Trustees Include Three Alumni 

Five new members, three of them AlumniJ have been appointed to the University or Notre Dame's Associate Board of Lay Trus­tees. They are Robert W. Galvin, president of Motorola, Inc., Chicago, III.; E. J. Hanley, president of the Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp., Pittsburgh, Pa.; Paul F. Hell­muth, Boston, Mass., attorney; Joseph A. Martino, president of the National Lead Co., New York, N. Y.; and Edmund A. Stcphan, Chicago, 111., attorney. Galving Hcllmuth and Stephan are Notre Dam? alumni. 
The Associate Board of Lay Trustees is composed of twenty-seven alumni and non-alumni members. It is charged with the responsibility of holding, investing and ad­ministering Notre Dame's endowment funds. Joseph A. LaFortunc, Tulsa, Okla., oil e.\­cctutive, is president of the Board which convenes each spring and fall on the campus. M 
Four of the newly appointed lay trustees have been ser\'ing on advisory councils for Notre Dame's several schools and colleges. Hcllmuth and Stephan are members of the Notre Dame Law School Adv!sor>' Council, and Hellmuth is currently serving as its president. Martino recently resigned from the Advisor)' Council for the College of Commerce, and Galvin is a member of the Advison- Council for the Liberal and Fine Arts. f 
Four Alumni Named as University Advisors 

Ten business and professional leaders in­cluding four alumni have been appointed to advisory councils at the University. 
Newly appointed members of the Ad­visory Council for the College of Com­merce are Thomas A. Bruder, president|( 
M. A. Bruder and Sons, Philadelphia, Pa.; John F. Connelly, president. Crown Cork and Seal Co., Inc.; Philadelphia, Pa.; George Coury, Miami, Fla., broker; Gerald 
S. Kennedy, chairman of the board. Gen­eral Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minn.; and Dr. Arthur J. O'Connor, Scarborough, N. Y., physician. 
A physician and two industrialists have accepted membership on the .Advisori* Council for Science and Engineering. They are Dr. Martin O. Miller, New Orleans, La.; E. M. Haughton, president, Utah Power and Light Co., Salt Lake City; and Armando J. Porta, executive vice president, The Studebaker-Packard Corp., South Bend. Indiana. 
John W. Dorgan, Chicago, 111., attorney, is a new member of the Advisor)' CouncilJ for the Notre Dame Law School. 
John B. Caron, Caron Spinning Co., Rochclle, III., has been named to Notre Dame's Advisory Council for the Liberal and Fine Arts. 
Coury, Porta, Dorgan and Caron are Notre Dame alumni. f; 
•([> 
THE CHICAGO STORY 
Scholarship and Leadership from 
€• 
"To seek out young men of impeccable character and exceptional ability who evi­dence leadership and dedication to highest 
—.principles" has been a job for the trustees 
'i^of the Scholarship Foundation of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago since its beginning seven years ago. 
Commencing with funds from a party early in 1953, the Scholarship Foundation \vas formalized in September of that year as an Illinois not-for-profit corporation. A big fonvard step was made in 1954 when the Scholarship Foundation was recognized as a tax exempt body by the Internal Revenue 
,<7vServicc. This last step was deemed necessarj' 
•-'so that there could be no question about the ta.\ deductibility of every contribution from alumni and friends. A seven-man Board of Trustees now conducts the business of the Scholarship Foundation, appointed by the Board of Governors of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Chicago. Thus, this inde­pendent organization functions only through its parent but operates in a tax-exempt at­mosphere of assistance to the University and 
/j^the community. 
The Scholarship Foundation's efforts to send to Notre Dame men who would con­tribute to her traditions as students and graduates for the rest of their lives have been blessed with unique good fortune through the skilled assistance of the Cardinal Stritch Youth Guidance Program, founded by the late Samuel Cardinal Stritch (LL.D. '46) in 1948. Its historj', its purposes, and its successes are in some measure the history, 
^purposes and successes of the Chicago Notre Dame Scholarship Foundation. 
Some highlights of this program will now be set forth to illustrate its dually effective purpose. 
When, in 1944, Cardinal Stritch found it difficult to select a qualified layman to send to the San Francisco Conference which for­mulated the United Nations Charter, he rc­solved to investigate the sources of this prob-
Cflllem. He found that Jews and many Protes­tant sects had seldom been at such a loss, had in fact sent a number of lay delegates to these conferences. His Eminence then be­gan meeting with a group of Catholic lay­men in Chicago who worked with him to study the problem and subsequently to for­mulate a program. This group selected five Chicago high school graduates in the spring 
i^of 1948 and went on to found the Cardinal Stritch Youth Guidance Program. This pro­gram actually is carried fonvard by two separate but integrated units: the Cardinal Stritch Youth Guidance Foundation, the fi­nancial end of the program; and the Youth Guidance Committee, formed among the 
'^membership of the Serra Club of Chicago. 
By FRANCIS E. MILLIGAN, JR., '45 
and JOSEPH A. McCABE, "33 
Both of these units work to attain the same end: selecting, counseling and training young men from the Chicago community who have the potential, the ability and the courage to become leaders in a specific field of en­deavor and who will apply Christian con­cepts in their business, community and per­sonal enWronment. 
The Youth Guidance Committee does its work in a series of consecutive steps: 
The first step is to invite the principal of each of the Catholic high schools in the .Archdiocese of Chicago to recommend mem­bers of his senior class having the highest character and well-rounded leadership po­tential (usually results in a nominee group of 150); step two is an initial screening in­ter\'iew with each of these nominees by a subcommittee of the Youth Guidance Com­mittee (reducing the group size to nearly 50); step three is to give this reduced group tests by the guidance department of Loyola University for intelligence, academic capac­ity and inherent leadership potential, and a complete physical examination adminis­tered through the generous assistance of a physician belonging to the Serra Club of Chicago and of the Alcxian Brothers Hos­pital of Chicago (thus assuring the physical ability of each nominee to endure the train­ing necessar)- to equip him for his chosen field); the last step is a personal interview by the full Youth Guidance Committee of each of the nominees (remaining after these tests) to make the final choice of the young men who will become "StrSch Scholars" from that year's high school graduating class. 
There is no quota, minimum or maximum, involved in final selection. Scholars selected each year have been as few as two and as many as twelve. Selection is solely on the basis of objective standards of leadership, health and ability to achieve maximum ef­fectiveness as a leader in a chosen field. No 
Teamwork 
matter how carefully the principals may rec­ommend their schools' seniors and the vari­ous tests and e.\aminations may be adminis­tered and each personal interview may be conducted, each step is dependent upon the human element always with us; mistakes can be and have been made. Some young men who should have been included in the pro­gram have been excluded or perhaps not even nominated, but, gratifyingly enough, very few young men have been chosen who were later dropped from the program. In all fairness to the plan ultimately activated by His Eminence and his advisors, no more careful series of judgments, tests, and con­tinuing personal assistance could be worked out for the purposes and the dreams which the program fervently and doggedly strives to achieve. 
Although the committee's procedure en­compasses a discussion with each scholar of his own desires regarding the field to which he intends to devote his future and the edu­cation required to equip himself for those efforts, it is not undl after the final selection has been made that attention is given to fi­nancial resources. Here the Youth Guidance Foundation comes into the program, for it is the task of the foundation to seek out and furnish whatever financial assistance is nec­essary to complete the educational require­ments established by the selection procedure of the committee. Many of the young men selected, of course, need no financial as­sistance for their educational requirements, and still others need partial assistance, and still others need complete financial assist­ance. It might be noted that, in one instance, a young man evidencing the highest promise in all areas came from a family so large that his earning power was necessary to the sus­tenance and education of his brothers and sisters; in this one case alone financial as­sistance (to help him attend a Chicago col­lege) included a monthly payment to his 
lAASS INTENTIONS ACCEPTED 
In fonvarding their best wishes for the New Year, the Holy Cross Fathers of Notre Dame would like alunm! to know that they would be happy to offer their Masses on the campus for any specific intention. If you would like to have Masses offered for individuals or families, for aimiversarics, the repose of souls, etc, please WTite to Rev. Ferdinand Brown, C.S.C., Superior, University of Notre Dame, Corby Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Year End, 1960 
family so that his potential could be devel­oped for the benefit of our community. 
As each Stritch scholar (the group now having been chosen for the year) readies himself for college, the committee assigns to him a counselor selected for sound personal Christian principle and stature in the iicld for which the scholar is to be trained. It is the pri\'ilege of the counselor to advise the scholar in his academic and extracurricular activities as well as in all other facets of his personal life that would help or hinder the experience he is seeking for his life-long work. The committee constantly reviews the relationship of each counselor with his scholar and may c\'en change counselors where ad\-antagc or necessity so indicates. 
-•Assessing progress in 12 years of operation is a heart-warming task. Sixt)--nine young men arc currcnUy members of the program as students or as graduate members of the communit}-. This group of Stritch scholars meets once a month in Chicago, twice a year at a Communion breakfast, once a year in closed retreat. A monthly newsletter goes out to each of these men to further maintain contact and report individual and group ac­tivities. Of these sbct}--nine, one is now work­ing in the business world as an industrial engineer; one is a practicing physician with the Public Health Ser\'ice (where he has completed a research project on atomic fall­out) ; another \\-as the leader of the iirst .•\mcrican team to track the orbit of Soviet Sputnik I: one is a foreign ser\'ice officer in the State Department; many of these young men have won Fulbright, Marshall, Wilson and National Science Foundation fellowship awards; others have written articles for 
Catholic and other journals; and the gradu­ate members now have twenty-live children. 
Where has Notre Dame fitted in and con­tributed to this program? Fifteen Stritch scholars attended Notre Dame as undergrad­uates and two attended her graduate schools. In addition to the scholars in the business world mentioned above, Notre Dame schol­ars include two practicing attorneys in Chi­cago, several teachers and one specialist in police administration who established the se­lection and training of sergeants in one large city and formulated the police classification and pay program for another. Two won Woodrow Wilson felloivships, t\vo had Na­tional Science Foundation fellowships and two others university fellowships. One has already published a technical book, and others have contributed to various Catholic and secular journals. At Notre Dame more than half of these men were graduated with honors; many contributed to campus publi­cations as staff and editorial personnel; many were class officers, hall presidents, officers in national student organizations and the Student Senate. These seventeen men came from ten high schools: four from St. Ignatius; three from Mount Carmel; two each from St. George and Loyola Academy; and one each from St. Patrick, St. Leo, St. 
Rita, Fenwick, DeLaSalle and Notre Dame High School. 
One of the Notre Dame men, leaving be­fore completing his undergraduate work, was a member of the charter class of the Ah Force Academy, where he led his class in nearly all the subjects taught, earned upper echelon command assignments in the Cadet Corps, and received more awards on graduation than any other cadet in this highly select charter class. He is now as­signed at the Center for Advanced Interna­tional Studies at Princeton. This particular man, ironically, financed his Notre Dame education by commuting to Chicago every week end to appear as a regular T V actor on the "Space Cadet" show. 
How do our Scholarship Foundation ancW alumni fit into this impressive and humbling' endeavor? Each year, after the final selec­tions have been made by the Youth Guid­ance Committee of the Chicago Serra Club, the Cardinal Stritch Youth Guidance Foun­dation is informed of the financial needs of the group. Our Scholarship Foundation is then advised of the Stritch scholars who would like to attend Notre Dame and the financial requirements of each. It is then up to the Board of Trustees of our Scholarshiffl Foundation to determine if we wll help any of these young men, which of them we will help, and how many dollars we wU con­tribute. How unique it is for us to have the 4,300 annual graduates of Chicago's Catho­lic high schools screened so that we can be certain our contribution for tuition and ex­penses at the University will be used to de­velop champions of Catholicism: a proces­sion of men who will lead truly Christian lives, men who mil help to create and main.^ tain a Christian environment, men who will 
predicate their leadership on Christian prin­ciples; men who wU put God and Country above self, men with the courage and ability and the deep con\*iction and firm purpose necessary to join this dedicated program, so fittingly named for its beloved founder, Sam­uel Cardinal Stritch, friend, counselor and inspiration of youth. 

PERPETUAL REMEMBRANCE IN THE MASSES AND PRAYERS OF THE PRIESTS AND BROTHERS OF THE CONGREGATION OF HOLY CROSS. "A thoughtful and much appreciated way of remembering the departed soul of a relative, friend or fellow alumnus." 
SPIRITUAL BENEFITS HELPS BENGAL MISSIONS Every Day—remembrance in over 800 Masses. All membership offerings help Holy Cross mis-Every Sunday—High Mass for living and deceased 
sioners overseas and provide the training and benefactors at Foreign Mission Seminary, equipment for future missioners educated at the 
Washington, D. C. Every Year—remembrance in four annual novenos. Foreign Mission Seminary, Washington, D. C. 
I) 

A beautiful framed certificate of membership (v/ith donor's name) is promptly sent to the family of the deceased. Offering is $5 for each person enrolled. 
Moil offering v/ith names and mailing instructions to: 
HOLY CROSS PURGATORIAL SOCIETY 
HOLY CROSS MISSIONS WASHINGTON 17, D. C. 
# 
12 Year End, I960 
A Belated Apology to 

Notre Dame's (Innumerable) Men of Science 
An article in the September, 1960, issue of the ALUMNTJS (Vol. 38, No. 3), entitled "Notre Dame Men of Science," has created a furor among alumni which a prejudiced obser\'er might mis­take for a reaction to some athletic matter. 
There were several letters criticizing the article, suggesting the more alarming possibility of many who took offense without writing. The few who gave voice to their displeasure, as well as the many who may have suffered in silence, deser\'e an explanation. 
The principal criticism was directed at a list appended to the article which purported to be a complete list of graduates of Notre Dame's Col­lege of Science who are listed in tlie latest edition of American Men of Science. Readers listed the names of many alumni who should have been included. The ALUJINUS cannot be held ac­countable for those omissions, since the list in question was part of a report to the vice-presi­dent for Academic Affairs from Dr. Lawrence Baldinger, tlien dean of the College of Science. Dr. Baldinger wrote to the editors of American Men of Science asking for a breakdown of Notre Dame entries. Told that no such breakdowns had been made, he was forced to rely on his own clerical staff and some additional help for the compilation. Apparently they were not equal to the task of sifting through thousands of entries for those with Notre Dame degrees, but the dean and the editors thought the list was complete. 
Happily, there appear to be many more Notre Dame men of science than those whose names appear in the "complete" list. Unfortunately they might have suffered personal or professional em­barrassment. The former dean and the editors are profoundly sorr)'. 
Also criticized were the "unscientific" super­ficiality of the article and its misleading emphasis on the biological sciences. Ob\'iously a complete issue, a series of issues, perhaps volumes, could not begin to do justice to the scientific achieve­ments of the University or her graduates. A three-or four-page article, therefore, could not be ex­pected to be complete. The article touched on a few past and present achievements of the Uni%'er­sity in research, concentrating on easily explained biological discoveries; it did not mean thereby to downgrade the complex but perhaps vastly more important advances in radiation chemistry, nuclear physics, etc. Its sampling of alumni spotlighted a 
few dramatic and "newsworthy" accomplishments in biochemistry and medical science. The hastily assembled melange might have avoided the con­sequences of its omnibus pretensions if it had been more modesdy and precisely titled "Some Notre Dame Men of Science." 
One remonstrator has suggested that a com­plete listing of those alumni recognized by Ameri­can Men of Science in the biological and phj'sical sciences be followed by a list of entries in the social and behavioral sciences. We would hesitate to prolong this controversy. Even to attempt a hurried column of addenda with those names sub­mitted by our thoughtful correspondents would be to risk a further slight to those whose names are still neglected or perhaps listed in some other scientific or professional directory. Henceforth we shall avoid the directory game, even when the source is the "reputable-reliable-dependable-unim­peachable" one of journalistic fable, until we have . a staff capable of independent research on the subject. 
Meanwhile, then, to Notre Dame's innumerable distinguished biologists, chemists, geologists, math­ematicians, physicists, physicians, etc., our deepest apologies. JX. 
Year End, 1960 . 13 

CLASS OF 1925 met after the M.S.U. game on October 15 at the Casa Pizza in Vetville Recreation Hall, pose apart from wives and guests. Jim Armstrong and Secretarj- John Hurley arranged the annual event. 
CLASS OF 1928 had their first reimion of the season in O'Shaughnessy's Basement Lounge after the Michigan State game. A rare visitor was Secretary Louis Buckley (kneeling, center), in from New York. 
li may not have been our year for football, but if was surefy 
A Banner 
Year for 
Football 
Reunions 

The fall of 1960 shared honors with M another recent year as the least successful season, from a won-lost standpoint, in Notre Dame football histor>*. But it also went down in the books as a bumper year for the alumni classes' post-game reunions, buffets and cocktail parties — a year in which a definite pattern and policy began to take shape. Since the Irish football fortunes presumably have no where to go A but up, it seems reasonable to assume that post-game class gatherings have finally hit their stride, that they are here to stay and will increase in autumns to come. 
Post-game reunions, always a logical class activit)- in thcorj-, have not always worked out in practice. The .Alumni Ser\*ice Booth at the Notre Dame Stadium, conceived to facilitate contacts with classmates after the ^ games, was abandoned a few years ago as inadequate to handle the swarms of alumni on Saturday afternoons. Since then only a 
FOOTBALL CHAMPIONS of 1930-31, shown with wives and guests at the Morris Inn, had a reunion program over the entire Mich­igan State week end. Victors of the 1935 Ohio State game also had a Silver Anniversary reunion at the Iowa game. 0 , 
14 Year End, 1960 

few classes, notably the Classes of 1925 and  
1928, have kept up the party tradition —  
largely because of a hard core of gre­ 
garious game-goers who will gather at the  
drop of an invitation — but even they  
lost heart in recent years in the inevitable  
/^post-game crush at the Morris Inn.  
Last fall everybody wanted to get into  
the act. More than a dozen classes gathered  
in the twilight, at home and away. Four  
classes — 1923, 1928, 1929, and 1930 —  
convened in campus rooms after the Michi­ 
gan State contest with wives and guests,  
while larger classes of the 50's met in down­ 
town hotels. Team jubilees got a shot in  
(i'the arm from programs of the 1930-31 and  
1935-36 squads on the M.S.U. and Iowa  
week ends. There were class get-togethers  
in conjunction with general rallies and  
cocktail parties on the Na\y and Southern  
Cal Saturdays in Philadelphia and Los  
Angeles. The general resurgence appears to  REPEAT  FOR  1928 was  held after the Northwestem-N.D. contest in  the Eranston, III.,  
be due to earlier planning and better pub­ home  of President Jim Allan (kneeling, center).  
licity. The campus parties, barred from  

TAe M.S.U. week end sfrefehed campus faeilities to the breaking point 
Classes sAou/d make party plans early and notify 4lumni Office 

CLASS OF 1929 also got together with wives and friends in the Engineering Building ReillliOII Calendar WHI during the crowded N.D.-ALS.U. week end, with Secretary Larrj- Stauder allocate campus space (left background) as host. and Insure pubUcity 
Dining Halls, Drill Hall and Morris Inn, were held in O'Shaughnessy Hall, Vctville's Casa Pizza, and even the Engineering Build­ing — thanks to the generous proprietors. The joker is that none of these facilities can accommodate many more than 100 people, including wives and guests. 
In planning future football reunions the 

"classes arc asked to plan months in ad­vance, publicize well in mailings and the .•\LUMNUS and keep the Alumni Office in­formed. Remember that there is usually only one .-\rmy or Michigan State game per season, and only a few parties will crowd the campus. Some quarters may not be 
(T^available in the future, some arc booked two years in advance. Classes of the Forties and later should tr\' to reser\-e space in hotels with cash arrangements for refresh­ments. With precautions like these, the post-CLASS OF 1930 held a party after the Michigan State game in the Tower Lounge of game party should become a valuable and O'Shaughnessy Hall, arranged by Secretary Dcvere Plunkctt (in light suit, left), assistant 
(^t permanent institution. dean of Arts and Letters. 
Year End, I960 15 

Library and Matching Gifts 
TWO FORD PLANS INCLUDE BOLD 'MATCHING' CONCEPTS 
Since the writing of the matching gift story in the September issue ("Obey That Second Impulse") two revolutionary "matching" programs have been introduced 
— both bearing the name Ford. The name, until recently only a trademark for progress in automobile design and manufacture, has become equally a hallmark of progress to­ward excellence in pri\'atc education through efforts of the Ford Foundation and the Ford Motor Company. 
The watchword of both programs, as with all "matching" ideas, is incentive. But both the Ford Fund and the Ford Motor Company stress the added incentive that pri\'ate institutions must have if they are to keep pace with the tax-fed growth of state-supported schools. 
The §6 Million Opportunity 

The Ford Foundation's efforts in this direction have made headlines. A few years ago, given evidence that the Univer­sity was attempting to improve faculty salaries, the Fund provided a tremendous boost in that direction. In September it ivas announced that Notre Dame would be given a $6 million opportunity as one of five universities destined for intellectual leadership in five major regions of the U.S. Notre Dame was the only Midwestern or 
A VOLUNTEER WRITES 
"Dear Father Hesburgh: "Thank you very kindly for your letter formally appointing me as the Foundation Governor. .. . I was very happy to accept this appointment and will certainly be glad to do all that I can on this program. . . . 
"Notre Dame has been good to me. My son graduated magna cum laude and, while it has been many years since my school days, I think I have been back on the campus at least once to several times each year for the past twenty years, and on each visit I seem to get the needed lift which we all need in our daily problems. All I have ever done is contribute my little sum each year, and I assure you I will co-operate in every way I can to make your drive a success. .. . I would like to put forth effort on this Foundation campaign for you. Father; for Father Wilson and Father John Ca\-anaugh. 
"Respectfully yours, Catholic school selected for a conditional 

grant. 
Terms of the offer, briefly, are that the 

Ford Foundation will contribute one dollar 
for every two received from pri\-ate, non­
governmental sources other than the Ford 
Foundation over the next 2'/: years. Thus 
the University will have to raise at least 
§12 million in that period to be eligible 
for the entire $6 million grant. All this 
and more she needs to build an $8 million 
Memorial Library and catch up with her 
previously announced $66.6 million ten-
year program. 
The Ford Motor Company, long a leader in scholarships and other aid, has been missing from the list of firms with matching gift plans for employes. Therefore it was with great joy that news of the Ford Edu­cational AID plan was sent by two alumni in the Ford organization: Peter Kernan, Jr., '49, formerly with the Foundation and now with Ford's college recruiting dept.; and Leo Brennan, '51, a member of the Ford Foundation staff. 
Ford Educational AID (Assistance and Incentive Donation) Program is part of the Company's broad plan for corporate assis­tance to education. Its objectives arc to provide a means by which the Company can join with its employes in contributing to Colleges, Universities and Secondary Schools, to provide an increased incentive to employes to contribute to educational institutions, and to encourage these insti­tutions to broaden their individual support programs. 
The $6,000 Challenge 

Company contributions will be made to eligible Colleges and Universities on a matching basis of $1 for each $1 contributed by an eligible employe to such institutions up to a maximum of $5,000 in any calendar year beginning January 1, 1960. If any of these contributions are made to pri\'ate Colleges or Universities, the Company will contribute an additional $1 for each $1 so contributed by the employe up to a maxi­mum of $1,000. Thus, the Company's matching contributions with respect to an indiWdual employe's aggregate contribu­tions to Notre Dame in any calendar year can amount to as much as $6,000. The first $1,000 contributed to the University would actually be worth $3,000, and the Company would match each additional dollar up to $5,000. 
It is possible, therefore, that contributions to Notre Dame totaling $11,000 could re­sult from an employe making a maximum gift of $5,000. -And under the three-year 
Kodak Alumni-Employe Plan Closes Private Tuition Gap 
A direct grant of $7,200 to Notre Dame was announced recently by the Eastman Kodak Company — signifi­cant because it is part of Kodak's aid-to-education program, which this year amounts to more than $800,000. 
Direct grants arc given by Kodak to pri\-atcly supported colleges and universities on the basis of the num­ber of graduates of each institution who joined Kodak five years ago and are presently employed by the com­pany. This year's grant to Notre Dame is based on Robert E. Cossa­boon (Class of 1952), Gerard E. Schoenherr ('55), and Edward W. Yohon ('55). 
These grants are designed to help schools compensate for the difference between the actual cost of educating graduates now with Kodak, and the amount that these graduates may have paid in tuition and fees. The direct grants also ser»-c to recognize the role that graduates of these in­stitutions are playing in the com­pany's progress. 

matching program of the Ford Fund, a Ford employe's contribution of $100 to $5,000 would give the University $450 to $16,500. 
Company contributions will be unre-W stricted as to use. The Program contains special provisions that may be applicable when the employe's total gifts in any year exceed the $1,000 or $5,000 limitations mentioned above. 
Eligible employes include all active regu­lar employes of the Company or certain of its subsidiaries at the time their contribu­tions are made. A contribution by a charit­able trust, foundation or corporation estab-^ lished by an eligible employe will be treated as made by the employe. 
Employe contributions must be actually paid and be equal to $10 or more. If the employe gift is in the form of securities or other property, its value will be determined by the Company Contributions Committee. 
An alumni fund or other organization is eligible for matching contributions if it is either an integral part of an eligible edu-^ cational institution or appropriately certi­fied as an organization that will transmit contributions received by it to the institu­tion or use them for its benefit. 
In addition, the educational institution or other organization, to be eligible, must be recognized by the Internal Revenue Scr\-icc as an organization to which de­ductible charitable contributions may be ^ made. 
Further information concerning the Pro­gram (including the complete text) is a\'ail­able from the Coordinator, Ford Educa­tional AID Program, Ford Motor Com­pany, The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan. V' 
Year End, I960 

(D 
ates. Said he: "It is more important to turn out one well-educated, competent man 
'Excellence' and the Press 
(0 
(Newipaper comments ivhich appear beloiv are typical reactions of the press to recent developments at the University. Reprinting them does not necessarily Indicate endorsement or approbation by the University of 
Xolre Dame or the Alumni Association. J.L.) 
By the Way by BILL HENRY 
IRISH APOSTLE OF EXCELLENCE 
(Reprinted from Los Angeles Times, November 30, 1960) 
The other day, when it looked as though 

(() the Notre Dame University football team was about to finish with the worst record in its gridiron history and there was much talk that coach Joe Kuharich would quit, some of the South Benders were parading around the beautiful University campus bearing signs which said: "Joe can stay; Excellence must go!" In case you don't identify "Ex­cellence," it is personified in the Rev. Ted Hesburgh, youngish boss man of Notre Dame. Chances are that, now that Notre 
r(^ Dame's footballers finished in a blaze of glory by trouncing the Trojans 17 to 0, campus critics will be willing to allow both coach and president to stay oii -he job. They should. 
The Rev. Theodore Martin Hesburgh, still in his late 40s after a decade as Notre Dame's top man, is an academic perfection­ist. AVhen he came to the big Catholic uni­versity he announced a no-nonsense policy. He decided to limit the school to about 6,500 students, made the College Board en­trance examinations compulsory, reduced the number of non-academic courses that a stu­dent could take and announced the inten­tion of turning out a better class of gradu­than a hundred mediocrities." He didn't announce that he intended to de-emphasize football. He just made it clear that Notre Dame's football coach, whoever he might be, would have to form a team out of men smart enough to get into a high-class institution of learning and to stay there. 
Actually Father Hesburgh is very much interested in the success of the Irish grid­ders, but he refuses to stretch the entrance requirements for them. . . . 
The Notre Dame president looks younger than he really is. He is a fiery, hiunorous and colorful speaker. He has plenty of courage of all sorts. He stood up to the howls of his football-minded alumni of both the sheep­skin and subway variety. As a member of the United States Commission on Civil Rights he has battled vigorously for the rights of all citizens to vote. On a trip some of us took, sponsored by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, he had to drop out temporarily to fill a previous early Sunday morning engagement ashore and then joined the rest of the party by landing at sea aboard our carrier in a jet bomber. Chances are pretty good that he'll make the "Excellence must go" boys change their minds about the academic policies of Notre Dame. 
EXCELLENCE AT NOTRE DAME 
(Editorial reprinted from Chicago Sun-Times, November 26, 1960) 
The University of Notre Dame, which had a long, long career as the nation's top foot­ball school, has had a long, painful plunge 

^ from that particular pinnacle. This season i f ever>- opponent but one has mopped up the gridiron with the Fighting Irish and, tradi­tion being what it is, there was no astonish­ment when 1,500 students put on an indig­nant demonstration the other day, parading the campus with signs that read "We ^Vant Football Players." What was disturbing, however, was an­other group of signs saying, "Down With Excellence," indicating that these particular (^ students had diagnosed the trouble as over­
m 
(0 
(0 S^* 
emphasis on academics and decided, as they put it, "To hell with excellence." 
Now, it isn't necessarily true that when you scratch a big football school you find a mediocre academic school. But neither is it simply coincidence that the Ivy League has seen fit to restrict its schedules to its own simon-pure league; that once-big football schools on the coast like California and Stanford, having de-emphasized, are now fielding losing teams; or that the University of Chicago has long since chucked the whole messy business. 
Some great football players have made Phi Beta Kappa. But there's hardly a top administrator of a big university who hasn't felt the brutal pressure to compromise schol­astic standards and give space to some lame­brained man-mountain that could otherwise have been allotted to a student of academic promise. 
For years Notre Dame managed to main­tain both first-rate academic standards and first-rate football, but those who have known the caliber of its leaders could have had little doubt that if a choice had to be made, it would be made on the side of academic excellence. 
We don't know what the future of foot­ball will be at Notre Dame, but we think we know where the school is going aca­demically. 
A couple of months ago the Ford Foun­dation, which deals in academic excellence, chose five private universities around the country- for unprecedented honors. Notre Dame was one. It will receive $6,000,000 in unrestricted money from the foundation if it can raise twice that sum in new money on its own. The foundation does not expect the funds to be used to enlarge the stadiiun. It e-xpects them to be used to enlarge the vision and mental competence of students. We do not believe this expression of faith in Notre Dame was misplaced. 
We believe, moreover, that the demon­strative fragment of the Notre Dame student body that put academic e.xcellence behind gridiron excellence was either having a ."sa­tirical fling, or is not yet dry behind the ears, but in any event does not represent majority student thinking at the University. Our observation of most college students of the generation—at least, those who survive the freshman year—convinces us that their horizon reaches beyond the goal line and the top of the stadium wall, out past the moon and the planets. Notre Dame, going the way it has chosen, will have its full share of these. 
Year End, 1960 -17 

the United States, East Pakistan, Chile and Uganda. 
The Alumnus Salutes.,. 
MOST REV. THEOTONIUS A. GANGULY, C.S.C., '49 In Pakistan, Local Bishop Joins N.D. Team 
In the same month that the Most Rev. Alfred F. Mendez, C.S.C., was consecrated as Bishop of .Arecibo, Puerto Rico, the Most Rev. Theotonius A, Ganguly, C.S.G., \\'as consecrated Titular Bishop of Oliv-a and Au.\iliar>- to .Archbishop Lawrence L. Grancr, C.S.C., of Dacca at ceremonies in East Pakistan October 7th. He is the first native member of the Holy Cross Fathers in a mission district to become a bishop. Bishop Ganguly entered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1951, five years after his ordina­tion as a diocesan priest in Dacca. He holds a master's degree and doctorate from the University and until recently was presi­dent of Notre Dame College in Dacca. 
DANIEL J. CASEY, '33 In Chicago, Engineer Has "Atomic" Energy 
Consistently in the Chicago spotlight since he %vas a "Spotlight Alumnus" eight years ago, Dan Casey, director of the engi­neering and construction di\'ision of the Atomic Energy Commission at the Argonne National Laboratory, has received two re­cent recognitions for his work in oversee­ing some §300 million in AEC construc­tion throughout the Midwest A 1960 su­pervisory finalist from more than 65,000 candidates in the fourth annual competition for Chicagoland's federal employee-of-the­year awarxls, Dan had pre\'iously won a superior performance $500 cash a^vard from the AEC for consistently outstanding leader­
ship. 
18 Year End, 1960 
Dan has been in federal sen-ice since 1946, first with the Federal Housing Au­thority' and the Federal \Vorks Agency, and with the .AEC for the past 11 years. Na\'y veteran of World Was II as a lieutenant, he supplemented his bachelor's degree in civil engineering with work at the Illinois Institute of Technology, the University of Chicago and De Paul. One of his projects in the ne-xt year or so may be the construc­tion of a radiation chemistry lab for the AEC on the Notre Dame campus. 
With his wife Florence and three chil­dren, Dan lives at 7712 East End .Avenue in Chicago, where his community interests include activities in the Chesterfield Com­munity Council, the Holy Name Society, and the Knights of Columbus. 
^m 

REV. JOHN H. MURPHY, C.S.C., '35 At Notre Dame, a New Provincial Secretary 
In October, Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C, chaplain at Saint Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, and former vice president for public relations at the University of Notre Dame, was appointed provincial secretary and a member of the Pro\ancial Council of the Holy Cross Fathers' Indiana Province. The appointment was made by the Very Rev. Christopher J. O'Toole, C.S.C., superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Rome, and was announced by Rev. Theo­dore J. Mehling, C.S.C, pro\'incial superior. 
Father Murphy succeeds the late Rev. Kemdt M. Healy, C.S.C, who had been secretary of the Provincial Council for t^venty-two years. He will be one of four councilors advising Father Mehling on the affairs of the Indiana Province which num­bers 436 priests and 61 brothers serving in 
Father Murphy is a native of Racine, ^S'isconsin. He entered the novitiate of the Holy Cross Fathers in 1930 and was ordained December 17, 1938, in Rome fol­lowing theological studies at the Gregorian University there. He holds an advanced degree in Sacred Scripture from the Ponti-% fical Biblical Institute. The 48-year-old Holy Cross priest %vas superior of Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame from 1943 to 1946 and ^vas a Notre Dame \'ice president from 1946 to 1953. In recent years he has been appointed for brief periods with THE CATHOLIC BOY, a youth publication of the Holy Cross Fathers, and the offices of The Family Theater, Hollywood, Calif. 
JOHN W. NIEMIEC AND JOSEPH W. NYIKOS, '23 In South Bend, J. W. N., '23, Had to Win 
"It rarely happens that one man. . . ." So f starts out the Senior Glass writcup under the picture of JOHN W. NIEMIEC, '23, in the DOME of that year, in which on the adja­cent page also appears the picture of JOSEPH W. mTKOS, '23. 
So we can repetitiously say that it rarely happens that two classmates, as closely asso­ciated as they were in their school days as well as their Alumni years, should find them­selves political opponents for the same office in later years. A 
In South Bend and Notre Dame circles come November, as much interest centered in the race for St. Joseph County Circuit Judge as in the national presidential race itself. Joe Nyikos was the Democratic nomi­nee for the office, John Niemiec the Re­publican nominee. 
Both were graduated with LL.B.'s in June, 1923. Both engaged in the private practice of law in South Bend ever since, Joe being a local product and John shifting A his professional scene from his home town of East Chicago to the N.D. environs. Both, incidentally, use the initials J.W.N. on their memos. 
Joe won his nomination in May the hard way, defeating two opponents soundly with 59% of the total votes cast. John was un­opposed for the nomination by the Repub­licans. However, the death of the incumbent judge, J. ELMER PEAK, N.D., '12, prior to the primary election threw the Repub-W lican factions into some sort of scramble when the Indiana governor, a Republican, named a man not previously thought of for the job, as interim Circuit Judge, by­passing the pro-Niemiec camp. However Indiana election laws made it impossible for anyone other than John to be Republi­can candidate. 
Thus the campaign in November pitted w two friendly enemies from the same law class with the same initials, and with ex­cellent qualifications, against each other. To their credit also it should be pointed out that prior to the May primary, the St. Jo­seph County Bar Ass'n issued a statement, indicating that both Nyikos and Niemiec f 
(0 
were well qualified and that the other two candidates were, in the opinion of the bar­risters, not qualified. 
Nyikos \vas the victor in a hard-fought election. 
Previously Niemiec had never sought pub­lic ofiice. Nyikos, however, has been town­ship justice of the peace in South Bend for 
fO about 25 years, a job he had to relinquish when he took office Jan. 1, 1961 as Circuit Judge. 
Judge Njikos is married, has two married daughters, and seven grandchildren. 
N. D. Sunday Scores 
With Ecumenical fO Council Thenne 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, observed in December by doz­ens of Notre Dame Clubs under the theme of the approaching Ecumenical Council called by Pope John XXIII, was a success in the spirit and quality of obser\'ance, variety of program and 
ff^ prominence of featured speakers. 
' • Members of the American liierarchy, local and campus clergy, and theolo­gians witli first-hand knowledge of the planned world conference were num­erous at the meetings. Some clubs took advantage of the Church's liberalized fasting regulations and the possibility of afternoon or eve­
.;^ ning Masses to bolster attendance at family or father-and-son, events. Im­provement in publicity and imagination in programming were e\'ident in many breakfasts, brunches, etc. For a com­plete nmdown, see the Club Reports in this and the spring issues. 
CALUMET — Most Rev. Andrew G. ^ Grutka, Bishop of Gary, was principal V speaker at the N.D. Communion breakfast of the N.D. Club of the Calumet Region. Seated nc.\t to the bishop is Club President Benedict R. Danko. Standing are Lawr­ence F. Gallagher (left), treasurer, and 
Robert J. Welch, Jr., treasurer. 

r, (See Club Section, pp. 27-33) 
MAN and the MOMENT 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 
One of the privileges that comes to those who go to college is a realization of spiritual values. One of the obliga­tions that follows and comes to us as alumni is "to make real" tliose spiritual values in our personal lives. 
At this time we are going to consider tlie second of the privileges and obli­gations that comes to us as students and alumni, i.e., the spiritual aspect. In doing so there is no intent to take away or mitigate the fact that the object of general education is tlie training of the mind. A university education must be directed chiefly to inculcate the intel­lectual virtues. Intellectual virtues are the product of rigorous intellectual ef­fort. Moral virtues, on the other hand, are formed by lifelong habit. A uni­versity education contributes to the for­mation of moral virtues, but it is not the primary purpose of a university education to supply tliem. These points must be made to avoid confusion. Con­fusion results from either extreme, i.e., from those who say a universit}' educa­tion does not even contribute to the fonnation of moral virtues, and from those who say the primary purpose of a university education is to supply these moral virtues. 
In tlie early history of our country it seemed only proper that our schools be concerned widi producing self-sustain­ing and law-abiding citizens. Some thought of education as the accumula­tion of useful information. This infor­mation was meant to help people earn a lixang and become good citizens. O there tltought of education as a char­acter guidance course. 
Jefferson wrote in 1818, "If the con­dition of man is to be progressively ameliorated, as we fondly hope and be­lieve, education is to be the chief in­strument in effecting it" Jefferson was interested in the lower levels of educa­tion. He used the word "college" and "univereity" but he did not mean them in the sense we use them now. The in­tellectual virtues were not of great con­cern. The importance of education was of great concern to him and that is 
why he stressed it so much in his writ­
ings. The "condition of man" that he 
wished to better was one of protection 
so that the poor could meet the rich 
on somewhat equal terms. A doctrine 
of equality of opportunity meant very 
little if knowledge was to be a monop­
oly of the few. 
Over the yeare much has been writ­ten to put the proper stress on higher education. Time and time again great leading educatore have told us that the proper objects of elementary and sec­ondary education are an ability or learning to enable us to secure external goods and the acquisition of moral vir­tues. The intellectual virtues must be the preoccupation of a university. 
\Vhat do we mean, then, when we say there is more than learning or train­ing of the mind to be had at a uni­versity? Simply this: a university edu­cation contributes to the formation of the moral virtues. The role is secondary. It all goes back to the basic concept of what man is. This concept keeps to the point that we are mind and body, that it is quite possible to have a genius who is amoral, that a world of walking brains can be a hell of living death, that we might be able to count a billion stars and know their whirlings and miss one heaven and all its meaning. 
We got something spiritual from our university days. All of us did. We need not grope to find it Now and then we must stop to put our finger on the pulse of time. Then with Robert Frost we say with better meaning: 
"Our life runs do«Ti in send­
ing up the clock. 
The brook runs down in send­
ing up our life. 
The sun runs down in sending 
up the brook. 
And there is something send­

ing up the sun." And to say it with better meaning we read from Gerard Hopkins: 
"The world is charged \vith 
the grandeur of God. 
It ^vill flame out like shining 
from shook foil ... " 
Ytar End, I960 19 
MOOT COURT 
Winnei-s in the Annual Moot Court 

Competition on October 29 were 
James S. Casey of Kalamazoo, a gi-adu­
ate of Western Michigan University', 
and Mr. John L. HolTcr of Soudi Bend, 
a graduate of St. Edward's College. Mr. Justice Stanley F. Reed of die Supreme Court of the United States 
"Wc arc convinced that the prcs­er\'ation of our form of government and the institutions which character­ize Western society may well depend on the continued development of a strong legal profession and that the profession is obligated to make a\'ail­able men of first rank in character, integrity, and competence. Other disciplines, and more especially the sciences, have made hea\'>' inroads upon the pool of superior students who have been interested [hereto­fore] in the legal profession, and the reversal of this trend is a serious necessity." 
John G. Hervey, 
Ad^Tscr to the American Bar 
Association's Section of Legal 
Education and Admissions 
to the Bar. 

20 Year End, 1960 
presided over the court hearing the final argument. Other members of the court were: 
Honorable F. Ryan Duffy, United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit 
Honorable Henry J. Friendly, United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit 
Honorable Clifford O'Sullivan, Uni­ted States Court of Appeals for the Si.\th Circuit 
Honorable Edward J. Devitt, United States District Court for the Dis­trict of Minnesota 
The presence of Mr. Justice Reed marked the fifth consecutive year in which a member of the Supreme Court has sat for the final argument in the annual Moot Court Competition. Mr. Justice Douglas has agreed to preside ne.\t year. 
Mr. Casey received die Dean's Award (§100), presented annually by former Dean Clarence Manion, and the A. Harold Weber Award ($250) presented by Mr. A. Harold AVcber of Soudi Bend, a member of the Law Advisor)' Council. Mr. HofTer received awards totaling $200. They will repre­sent the Notre Dame Law School in the National Moot Court Competi­tion. 
LABOR UNION POWER 

Papers delivered at the Symposium on Labor Union Power and the Public Interest, held at The Law School last April, have been published in Uie 1960 Symposium Issue of the Notre Dame Lawyer. A copy will be sent, on re­quest and without charge, to interested Notre Dame lawyers. 
AMERICAN BAR PRESIDENT 

The President of the American Bar Association, Mr. Whitney Nordi Sey­mour of New York, will be the guest of honor and principal speaker at diis year's LAAV DAY observance. Mr. Seymour's successor, Mr. John C. Sat­terfield of Jackson, Mississippi, Presi­dent-elect of the Association, has agreed to make the principal address next year. 
APPOINTED 

Altero J. Alteri, '59L, is now ser\'ing as law clerk for Judge Clifford O'Sul­livan, '20L, of tite United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. 
Dean O'Meara Dean Joseph O'Meara was the principal speaker at the annual meet-% ing of the Conference of Jesuit Law Schools Dec. 29 at St. Louis University in St. Louis, Mo. 
A MESSAGE FROM THE 
NATIONAL CHAIRMAN 
I addressed the law student body at Harvard recently and talked after­ward to a dozen brilliant young men who would have preferred to study law at Notre Dame, but could not afford to do so. Har^'ard gave each of them a full scholarship. 
Like the cost of everything else, the costs of a legal education at Notre Dame and elsewhere have soared since my days on the law faculty. If the Notre Dame Law School is to get its share of superior students now, it must bid for them with merit scholarships and this will require $50,000 a year. Last year, while the number of our contributors increased from 191 to 390, total receipts amounted to only $25,940.00. Be­cause of the excellence of his appli­cants, Dean O'Meara granted schol­arships in excess of collections this fall, relying on alumni to underwrite his wisdom in obtaining these fine students. 
We can and must raise $50,000 for law scholarships this year. I am exhorting those who gave last year to do a little better, this time and especially, I urge the non-givers of last year to join the ranks of con­tributors. 
Clarence Manion, National Chairman 
Former Dean Manion 

character and academic achievement^ particularly in theological studies. In 1960 it was presented to David J. Nagel. 
Theology at Notre Dame 
by Rev. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C, '45 
o 
In the Forties a group of Holy Cross undergraduate efforts. The Preamble to priests at Notre Dame saw the intense need this Program states: for strengthening collegiate theology. These "The purpose of this program is to make men such as Fathers Hesburgh, Simonitsch, the problems of theology effective questions Shcedy, Schlitzer, Putz, and Joseph Cava-in the mind of the student and in this naugh had a vision for the future. They fashion to initiate the movement of intel­were to be aided by other priests — both ligence that constitutes genuine theological 
r\ within and outside of Holy Cross. They inquir>', faith seeking understanding. It is put themselves to the work of writing te.\ts, thought that there may be less likelihood of raising academic standards, asking superiors theological questions becoming foils for that the future teachers of theolog>' be given ready-made answers if they are cast into special opportunities for graduate work. By the form in which they have been operative means of their enthusiasm and labor they in history'. There is further purpose in did accomplish significant things. They ex­such a program of recovering the classic in­cellently prepared the way for future the­sights into the mysteries of Christianity ological efforts both at Notre Dame and which can be lost in the conventional tracts elsewhere. — for instance, the theory of the Logos 
which, though preser\-ed in the tract on the Today we are building on their founda-Trinity, often is absent from the tract on fQ tions. The problems and the answers arc the Incarnation. The subject matter of the not quite the same in the si.\ties. But by program envisioned here is to be the coupling their attitude of dedication with a systems of theology not the lives and times spirit of relevance another sound work will of the theologians. The method, thus, is to be accomplished. 
be that dialectic of ideas which seems to 
It will be of interest to examine some of embody the genius of intellectual history." 

these possibilities. Within the last year the Already there are a number of well title of the Department was changed from qualified graduate students in this course. 

Religion to Theology. Undoubtedly what ^Ve believe that they too are going to we are teaching our college students today eventually make an impact upon contem­is a true Theology, adapted to their needs, porary theologj'. 
((If level, and background. 
The Cavanaugh Award Undergraduate Theology 
One tangible link ^vas established this The students who come to Notre Dame  year the theologians the 
past between of today have a better theological background past and present at Notre Dame. The 
than in years past. Our program must Reverend Joseph H. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. take this into consideration. Rapid de­A%vard ^vas established. This is in honor velopments have taken place in studies of of Father Cavanaugh who formerly directed Sacred Scripture. AVith that in mind our the Department, and whose youthful death Scripture course has been completely re-cut short a wonderful career. This will be f^ vised twice during the last year. This has given annually to a graduating senior who " been done under the guidance of excellent has evidenced high qualities of personal 
Scripture scholars. Dogmatic Theology has many contemp­orary implications. In view of this we now present the dogmatic courses in the context of a contemporary problem. For instance, especially for our science students we pose the question whether the evolutionary ap­
proach of dc Chardin is sound. Our in­vestigations take us to the basic Catholic 4i sources. For other students we show what 
contemporary atheism actually is. One ex-excellent guide here is Afaritain's True Humanism. 
Wc realize that moral Theology should be a capstone in the theological experience. Because of this it is now studied in the Senior year. The course was thoroughly overhauled last year. A text is being pre-O pared which we trust will help the students to practice more realistically from class­
room theory to professional practice. 
Sununer Theology 

Notre Dame makes another contribution through its excellent teacher training pro­gram in Theology each Summer. This last Summer there were two hundred and seventy-six students (exclusive of the Lit­urgy Program) who took classes in the Department. Most of these were graduate students. There were thirty different Orders of Sisters represented together with priests. Brothers, and laymen. These too as current teachers of Theology influence pro­gramming. The Summer graduate Staff in theology at the University has scholars from throughout the world. 
The Liturgy 

On last August 4 the Liturgical Program at Notre Dame became administratively a part of the Department of Theology. The late Father Mathis had done an extra­ordinary task in establishing an internation­ally recognized center of Liturgical studies here. He attracted top men and obtained their deep confidence. Father Daniel J. Sulli\-an, C.S.C. now studying in the Holy Land, will henceforth be the Program Di­rector. The Executive Secretary in this work is Father William Me-\uliffe, C.S.C. A Policy Committee with broad representa­tion will determine programming. The 1960 Summer enrollment \vns ninety-seven graduate students. ^ 
The Future 

We have confidence that theology at Notre Dame will continue its growth. In the eighties we would hope that the Uni­versity may well be a world leader in this field. The new library will assist this effort. The rubbing of shoulders with the finest scientific minds may hasten this pro­cess. Conceivably God may raise up men with a most contemporary and profound theological vision. This is a sore need for our disillusioned society. May Notre Dame contribute strongly toward alleviating this need. 
Winter Graduate Theology 

Father Pelton conversing with two visiting professors of Litu^^ (from left): Father Joseph A new Winter Graduate Program of Marique, S.J. (College of Holy Cross, Worcester, Mass.); Father Pelton, C.S.C; and Theology will also indirectly strengthen the Father Louis Bouyer (of the Oratory), Catholic University <rf Paris, France. 
o Year End, 1960 
1960 BTotre Dame Fighting Irisli 
FIRST ROW—(left to right): Dan Luecke, Bob Koreck, Bob Scarpitto, Bill (Red) Mack, Capt. Myron Pottios, Bob Pietrzak, Ray Ratkowski, Frank 
Gargiulo, Paul Nissi. SECOND ROW—(left to right): Norb Roy, Tom Hecomovich, Max Burnell, George Haffner, Tom Monahan, John Linehan, 
Jack Castin, Bill Henneghan, Bill Clark, George Sefcik, Angelo Dabiero, George Williams, Les Trover, THIRD ROW—(left to right): Jim Mikacich, 
Charles Augustine, Bill Clements, Clay Schuiz, Tom Liggio, Gene Viola, Nick Buoniconti, Bob Bill, Gerry Gray, Joe Carollo, Joe Perkowski, Jack 
Cullen, Roger Wilke, John Powers. FOURTH ROW—(left to right): Bob Lehmann, Joe Maxwell, Nick DePolo, Leo Seller, Dan Kolasinski, Mike 
Magnotta, Frank Grau, Bill Ford, Jim Loula, Dick Naab, Bill Snyder, Mike Lind, Ed Burke, Brian Boulac. FIFTH ROW—(left to right): Kieran Kealy 
(Associate Manager), John Slafkosky, Chuck O'Hara, Bill Ahem, Steve Kolski, Ed Hoerster, Dennis Murphy, Jim Sherlock, Daryle Lamonica, 
Bill Kutzavitch, Norb Rascher, Ed Rutkowski, Leo Caito, Greg Wood, Marshall Reilly, Frank Minik, Bob McCutchan (Head Manager), Joe Kelly 
(Associate Manager). .-*.—. * • .. • • • * • 4 
o Final ifiO Season MMm 
TEAM  PUNTING  KICKOFF RETURNS  
Notre111127  Dame  Points Scored First Downs  Opponents  188  130  LamonicaScarpitto  ... —  No.2315  Yards 861 599  Avg.  37.4  40.0  ScarpittoSefcik.  .  No. 10 7  Yards TD 230 0 170 0  
83  by Rushing  91  Sefcik  9  239  26.6  Dabiero  ...  5  114  0  
40  by Passing  33  Rutkowski  3  90  30.0  Minik  2  58  0  
41537  by Penalties Yards Eushing  6  1G08  RUSHING  Caito Rutkowski Mack  2 2 1  393730  0 0 0  
4633.32  Times Carried Yards-per-try  469  3.43  Dabiero TC.  80  Yds.325  Avg.  4.1  O'Hara Schulz  1 1  2418  0 0  
90017356.324843  Yards Passing Passes Attempted Passes Completed Completion Percentage Passes Intercepted by Yards Int. Returned  919  111  53  477  21  397  SefcikScarpittoLindPerkowskiAhemRutkowskiLamonica  „ 50  51  53  25  24  25  26  248 228 167 131 82 76 73  5.0 4.5 3.2 5.2 3.4 3.0 2.8  Clark 1 17Haifner ._ 1 16Murphy „ 1 10Perkowski 1 10DEFENSIVE STATISTICS  0 0 0 0  
2438  TOTAL  OFFENSE  2527  Minik  29  69  2.4  Tackles  
50178935.82852817Scarpitto  Punts Total Yards Average Yards Punts Returned Fumbles Ball LostSCORING TD PAT 5  FG   57  2100  36.9  213  23  14 TP 30  HenneghanLiggioNaabMaxwell Mack Ratkowski ._ O'Hara Griffith GargiuloCaitoRascherHaifner  17  10  12 .. 9 -9 .. 6 .. 5 .. 3 2 1 7  20  44 37 34 30 29 24 11 8 3 1 -18 -64  2.6 3.7 2.8 3.3 3.2 4.0 2.2 2.7 1.5 1.0  Pottios 74; Buoniconti 71; Traver 67; Roy 65; Bill 47; Linehan 41; DePola 38; Dabiero, Haffner and Schulz 37; Sefcik 35; Lamonica 33; Burke 31; CaroUo 30; Murphy 26; Hoerster 25; Sherlock 23; Boulac 21; Burnell, Minik and Williams 20; Lind 17; Hecomovich 12; Castin 11; Perkowski 10; Wilke 9; Rutkowski and Scarpitto 8; Liggio 7; Grau and Powers 6; Ahern, Kolski, Pietrzak and Viola  
Dabiero  3  18  5;  O'Hara 4; Mack and Magnotta  
LamonicaPerkowskiAhem ... Burnell .  3 0  18 12 6 6  PASS INTERCEPTIONS No. YardsHaffner 3 2Sefcik 2 17  TD 0 0  3; Cullen, Luecke and Monahan 2; Augustine, Ford, Loula, Max­well, Naab, Nissi, Eascher, Ral;­kowski and Seiler 1.  
DePola  .  6  Lamonica  1  18  0  
/jj  Lind  6  Dabiero  1  6  0  Passes Broken Up  
Sherlock  6  Kolski  1  0  0  Dabiero  6;  Haifner  and  Sefcik  
Traver . Henneghan  2 1  PUNT RETURNS  3; Lamonica, Minik, Scarpitto and Schulz 2; Boulac, Buoniconti, De­Pola, Gargiulo, Hoerster, Liggio,  
No.  Yards  Avg.  Lind, Linehan and Traver 1.  
PASSES CAUGHT  Dabiero  8  102  12.8  
TraverScarpittoBurnellDabiero Number 14 8 6 5  Yards  225  164  84  112  TD 0 0 1 1  SefcikMinikScarpitto Lamonica DePola .... Pottios   12 8  85 35 16 10 8 10  7.1 4.4 16.0 10.0 8.0 10.0  Opponents Fumbles Recovered Traver 2; Buoniconti, Boulac, Burnell, CaroUo, Haifner, Hoer­ster, Lind, Murphy, Schulz, Sefcik and Wilke 1.  
Sefcik  5  106  0  Ratkowski  8  8.0  
Sherlock  5  59  1  Caito  7  7.0  Blocked Kicks  
Murphy  3  40  0  Rutkowski  4  4.0  DePola 3; Pottios 1.  
RutkowskiRatkowski  2 2  43  21  0 0  PASSES  
LindCuUenPerkowski  _  _-.  2 1 1  10  22  10  0 0 0  HaffnerLamonicaRascher Att.  108  31  30  Comp. Intercepted30 1115 5 11  Yards, 548242 110  TD 3  Pet. .277 .484 .367  
Griffith  1  4  0  Rutkowski  3  0  0  .000  
Gargiulo  1  1  0  Schuk  1  0  0  .000  
Year End, I960  23  

1961 SCHEDULE 

Sept. 30—Oklahoma at Notre Dame 
Coach Bud ^Vilkinson's Sooners will be heading into South Bend with high hopes of erasing the sting of this year's dismal record. Tom Co.v and Ron Pa>-ne are but a few of the many returning vet­erans. 

Oct. 7—Purdue at Lafayette 
Quarterbacks Bemie Allen and Maury Guttman depart as does explosive ^Villie Jones, a fullback. Tom Yakubowsfci, an­other fine fullback, returns, and Coach Jack Mollenkopf will mould his offense around him and a good line. 

Oct. 14—Southern Cal at Notre Dame 
The Trojans will be heavily hit by June graduations. Such outstanding linemen as Mike and Marlin McKeever and Dan Ficca are lea\'ing. Coach Mc­Kay will build his team around quarter­back Nelson, fullback Tobin and center Morgan. 

Oct. 21—Michigan State at East Lansing 
Halfback Garj- Ballman and center Dave Manders will be Coach Duffy Daugherty's chief sources of consolation for the loss of Herb .•\dderly and quar­terback Tom ^Vilson. Once again, the Spartans will be ver>- hard to beat. 

Oct. 28—Northwestern at Notre Dame 
Dick Thornton, granted an extra year's playing time because of an injury-, may decide to turn pro. His return would be a great boost to the Wildcats. Coach Parseghian faces several line and back­field problems. 

Nov. A—Navy at Notre Dame 
The magnificent Joe Bellino will be gone. Adding to the backfield woes is the graduation of Joe Matalavage and Hal Spooner. Coach Wayne Hardin will rely heavily upon linemen such as Hewitt, Von Sydow, Graham and ifather but a new backfield is a prob­lem. 

Nov. 11—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh 
Two thirds of the C Boys' trio return in the persons of Fred Cox and Bob Cle­mens. Despite the loss of AU-American Mike Ditka, Coach Michelosen will have a fierce line returning, headed by Larry Vignali and Andy Kuzneski. 

Nov. 18—Syracuse at Notre Dame 
Since a guy named Ernie Davis will still be around next year, the Orangemen will be good. Fullback An Baker and end Fred ^fautino furnish Ben Schwartz­walder vAih a few headaches by their graduation. 

Nov. 25—!o\va at Iowa City 
The Hawkeyes will be loaded. Coach Jerry Bums inherits from Forest Eva­shevski a backfield composed of Wilburn Hollis, Joe Williams, Larry Ferguson and Sammy Harris. This quartet will oper­ate behind a big mobile line. 

Dec. 2—Duke at Durham The Blue Devils of Coach Bill Murray lose several top ballplayers incJuding end Tee Moorman. Swift halfbacks Joel Harrington and Jack Wilson should make Duke formidable once again. 
24 Year Eud, 1960 
Roy Traver Lind Buoniconti 
Prospects For a Comekck 
The year 1960 proved one of heart­break and misfortune for the football forces of Notre Dame. Once again the Irish must have led the nation in in­juries. .A.t various times during the sea­son, eight boys were tried at fullback. Almost every one of them came up with an injury. Red Mack, John Powers and Tom Hecomovich are but a few of the key performers who were struck by crippling injuries. 
What ^vill 1961 bring? No one can accurately answer that question, but it most certainly will have to bring im­provement. The list of returning vet­erans is long; the list of departing graduates is short. 
At quarterback, a spot which gave Coach Joe Kuharich many problems this season, four experienced performers re­turn. JIany of the quarterback problems this year stemmed from lack of ex­perience. Both Sophomore Daiyle La­monica and Junior George Haifner show­ed improvement as the season progress­ed. Sophomore Norb Eascher also returns as does junior defensive specialist Clay Schulz. Jack Castin, mainly a defensive performer, is the lone important quar­terback loss. 
Despite the departure of Bob Scar­pitto, Eay Eatkowski and Mack, the halfback position should be loaded with talent. Juniors George Sefcik, Angelo 
GEORGE SEFCIK 
Irish rushing ace 

Dabiero and Tom Liggio together with _ sophomores Ed Eutkowski, Frank Minik, € Leo Caito, Chuck O'Hara and the un­tried Denny Phillips will provide plenty of depth. Dabiero and Sefcik frequently starred for the 1960 club while Phillips was injured. 
At fullback many of this season's horde of performers return. Juniors Dick 
Bill Haffner 

Naab and Joe Perkowski, and Sopho­mores Joe Max^vell, Mike Lind and Bill % Ahern all held the first string spot at one time or another during the season. Joining the ranks of alumni will be Bill Henneghan and Frank Gargiulo. The status of injured Gerry Gray isn't known at present. Gray, the 1959 team's leading msher was forced to di'op out of school because of a back injury. His return would give the squad a big boost. 
Heading the returning end group will _ be Junior Les Traver. He will be joined • by Sophomores Jim Sherlock, Brian Bou­lac, Dennis Murphy and Leo Seller. Juniors Max Burnell and the injured defensive standout, John Powers, will also be back. 
Bob Pietrzak and Bob Koreck vdll be the only men graduating from the tackle ranks. Joe Cai-oUo, Eoger Wilke, Bob Bill and George Williams will be around for their final season. Sophomore Ed M Burke, a frequent starter, is expected to be outstanding. 
Junior Nick Buoniconti, a fine line­backer, heads the list of 1961 guards. Another excellent linebacker, Captain Mo Pottios, is the chief loss here. Junior Norb Eoy and Sophomore Nick DePola should be standouts next year-. Juniors Mike Magnotta and Frank Grau, plus M injured Sophomore Bob Lehmann will add depth. 
Late season discovery John Linehan is the sole graduating pivotman. Soph Ed Hoerster and Juniors Tom Hecomo­vich and Gene Viola will handle this job in 1961. —Bob Chiappinelli m 
Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ALABAMA 

-Joh n L. Campbell, '33, 1317 Vallcv Drive, Birmins-V ham, Ala. 
ARIZONA 

Phoenix—V>T. Dale H. Stannard, '45, I3I9 W. ^Ilssouri, Phoenix, Arizona. 
Tucson—Robert O'Callaghan, '45, 725 Camino Xfira­monte, Tucson, Arizona. 
ARKANSAS 

^ Fort SmilA—James A. GUker, '48, 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. Utile ffocJt—Jaroes E. ^radigan, '43, 4617 Crest-wood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 

Centra/—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secretary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Cal. 
Greater Long Beach Area — Edmond W. Shecran, 
'31, 206 E. Fourth St., Long Beach 12, Cal. Los Angeles—}>imu>a R. Goodman, '30, 9441 Wil­[ I shire Blvd., Beverly Hills, Cal. WorfSern—William Shine, '49, 710 LaPrenda Rd., Los Altos, Cal. Orange County—Wllard R. Vangcn, '49, II732 Blue Jay Lane, Garden Grove, Cal. Sacramento—Thomas G. Kassts, '31, 4601 Nickels Way, Sacramento 25, Cal. San CiVjo—Richard N. Martin, '45, 2669 "C " St., San Diego 2, Cal. San Fernando Valley—John X. Leonard, '34, 8558 Shirley Ave., N'orthridge, Cal. San Gabriel roZ/o"—Benjamin B. Salvaty, Jr., '32, b 508 N. Vega St., Alhambra, Cal. 
COLORADO 

Colorado ^/irfnji-William J. Donelan, Jr., '29, 1800 Afcsa Ave., Broadmoor, Colorado Springs, Colo. Denver—Oul F. Eiberger, '52, 1300 Telephone Bldg., Denver 2, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT Connecticut X'aUey—J:un<s F. Flaherty, Jr., '53, 12 
. Tumblcbroofc Rd., Rocky Hill, Conn. 'Fairfield Counlj^William Mulrenan, '37, 100 Tide-mill Terrace, Fairfield, Conn. Naugatuck-Mtrcd E. Sullivan, '52, 301 Dorchester, Waterbury, Conn. New Haven—Joseph B. Clark, '54, 337 Humphrey St., Netv Haven, Conn. 
DELAWARE 

James J. Coleman, '46, 219 Oakwood Road, Wil­mington 3, Delaw-are. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

Robert N. Hutchinson, '55, 12 East Lenox St., Che\-y Chase, Md. 
FLORIDA 

Centra;-Roy B. Laughlin, '48, 2061 Rockledge, Rockledge, Fla. 
Fort Lauderdale—Thomas J. Walker, '42, Walker In­sutancc Associates, Inc., P.O. Box 595, Dania, Fla. Greater Miami—^James A. Smith, '48, 672 X.E. 
98th St., Miami Shores, Fla. North Florida—Ger2ld B. Johnson, '50, 4540 Xlil­stead Rd., Jacksonville 10, Fla. Palm Beach County—Timothy D. O'Hara, '54, 326 Barcelona Rd.. West Palm Beach, Fla. Pensacota—Fatiick J. Gunning, '53, 3770 Summer Dr., Fensacola, Fla. 
St. Pelersburg-Tampa—ifaA E. Mooney, '26, 4525 
Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGU 

Atlanta—James E. Barnard, '49, Acting President, 2012 Juanita St., Decatur, Ga. 
HAWAH 

Donald C. Xlachado, '50, 99-139F Keen Way, Aica, Hai^nii. 
IDAHO 

James J. Carberry, '41, 8507 Vincent St., Boise, Idaho. Idaho Fo/Ii—James i L Brady, '29, P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 

Aurora—Onta Kane, '38, Kane Ford, 230 Galen Blvd., Aurora, HI. Central Winou-Thomas Hamilton, Jr., '53, 3349 
S. Fifth St., SpringSeld, 111. C/iiVojo—George M. Menard, '34, 38 South Dear­born, Room 1337, Chicago, 111. Decatur—Milton J. Beaudine, '54, 76 E. Court Dr., Decatur, III. Eastern Illinois—Edward J. Layden, '41, Hoopeston, Illinois. Fox faHo^-George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, lU. Joliet—John Lux, Jr., '53, c/o Herald Kews, 78 Scott St., JoUet, HI. 
Kankakee Valley—Tbotias J. Reynolds, '54, 343)4 S. Winlield, Kankakee, III. 
La Salle County Club—John T. Chirk, '49, 726 
Sherwood, Ottawa, Illinois. McHenry County—^Joseph A. Conerty, Jr., '44, 116 Benton St., Woodstock, HI. Pcorio—John F. Manion, '56, 2114 West Garden Rd., Peoria, III. Rori/orii—Albert Carroll, '22, 206 West State St., Rockford, 111. 
Rock River Valley—hukc R. Morin, '53, 523 N. 
Dixon Ave., Dixon, 111. Southern Cook County—^Angelo A. Ciambrone, '57, 168 Hawthorne Lane, Chicago Heights, III. 
INDIANA 

Calumet District—Hca R. Danko, '51, 1801 Cleve­land Ave., Whiting, Ind. Eastern /nrfiinii—William B. CronJn, '31, 521 E. JefTerson, Hartford City, Ind. Elkhart—Amtia Gildea, '30, 5 St. Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind. £:ionra"«t—Donald F. Haller, '43, 716 S. Vilb, Evansville 14, Ind. Fort U'ayne—Robert R. Luther, '49, 443 Kinnard Ave., Ft. Wayne, Ind. /nrfiono/iofij-Patrick J. Fitzgerald, '53, 7524 N. Penns>-lvanta St., Indianapolis, Ind. Michigan Ciij^Dr. Francis J. Kubik, '36, 902 Pine, Michigan City, Ind. 
St. Joseph Valley—Joseph E. Hickey, '50, 1131 E. 
Eckman St., South Bend 14, Ind. Terre Haute—Rsul A. Marietta, '44, 3027 North 11th St., Terre Haute, Ind. tVabash Valley—James W. Glaser, '50, P.O. Box 59, Lafayette, Ind. 
IOWA 

Bu//mg/ort—John A. Dailcy, '27, 201 Spring St., Burlington, lo^^'a. Cedar Rapids—GcoTSc Bennlng, M9, RJl. 3, Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Des .UoinM—James F. Bocscn, '54, 4109 30ili St., Des ^^otnes lO, Iowa. 
Dubuque—Rcv. William Kunsch, *37, Loras College, Dubuque, Iau*a. Sioux-Land—R:xynxond B, Duggan, '43 (Secretary), 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, Iowa. 
Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, MoUne, E. Mo­line)—William J. Laffan, '52, 2715 E. Hayes, Davenport, Iowa. 
KANSAS ! 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. 5a/ina—Thomas Kennedy, '51, 1900 Gebhart, Salina, Kansas. Wiehita—Jahts L. Weigand, '54, 303 N. Dellrose, Wichita 8, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 

Paul A. Maloncy, '52, 3721 Wnchester, Louis­ville, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 

New Orleans—James E. Smith, '50, 6414 Cartier Dr., New Orleans, La. Northern Louisiana—George J. Despot, '45, 517 ^farket, Shreveport, La. 
MAINE 

Lewiston, .Me.—J. Leonard Tobin, '38, 50 Russell St., Lewiston, Me. 
MARYLAND 

Bo/<imore—Fiands J. Murphy, IH, '36, 634 Picca­dilly Rd., Tow^on 4, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS 

Berkshire County—James J. O'Brien, '34, 197 
Bardett Ave., Pittsfield, Mass. Boilon-William E. Daoey, Jr., '49, 16 Darrell Dr., Randolph, Mass. 
Pioneer Valley—Darud J. O'Connell, '22, 11 Pyn­
chon Rd., Holyoke, Afass. 
inCHIGAN 

Battle Cr«i—Raj-mond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard Place, Batde Creek, iHch. Berrien County—Br. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles, Mich. Blue Water i)u(nV(—William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Giatiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. Dearborn—Emoiy Dakoske, '53, 14925 Cicotte, Allen Park, ACch. Detroit—J. Lows Conroy, "27, 1365 Cass Ave., Detroit 26, Mich. Hint-Victor E. George, '53, 1426 Eldoiado Dr., Flint, ifich. Gogebic Range—Eugene R. ZInn. '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels Bldg., Ironwood, Michigan. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—Frank Fal­lon, '33, Ambert, Law & Fallon, 500 Michigan Trust Bldg., Grand Rapids, ilich. 
//i'axa(Afl/on<f—Donald T. Trottier, '44, 604 Lud­ington St., Escanaba, Mich. /action—CjTil J. Hartman, '23, 512 Webb St., Jack­son, Mich. 
Kalamazoo—Joseph O'Keefe, '44, O'Keefe Motor I Sales, 433 W. Water St., Kalamazoo, Mich. Lansing—Ckirence J. Hess, '33, Station B, Lansing 13, Mich. 
Monroe—Charles J. Golden, '48, 35 E. Front St., j Monroe, Mich. I 
iMuskegon—G. Leonard Pucci, '47, 3103 Eastland Rd., Muskegon, Alich. Saginav Valley—Ceoise Ward, '40, 205 PSrk, Bay ) City, Mch. • 
Top of' Michigan—Edward L. Moloney, '17, 416 East State St., Chebojrgan, Hfich. 
Year End, 1960 25 
MINNESOTA 

DulutbSupenor—^Jamcs P. Keough, '35, (treasurer), 2703 East Fifth St., Ouluth, Minn. Twin Ci"(."«—Joseph T. O'Neill, '53, 2118 Baj^d Ave., St. Paul 16, ^Gnn. 
MISSISSIPPI 

TOUiam H. Miller, '30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jaclt­sun. Miss. 
AHSSOURI 

Kansas City—(Mo. and Kans.)—^John T. Massman, '56, 1207 Romany Rd., Kansas City, Mo. SI. Louis—J. Donald Ratchford, '50, 9705 Madison, Root Hill 19, Mo. 
MONTANA 

Bernard Grainey, '43, 906 11th Avenue, Helena, Mont. 
NEBRASKA 

Omaha and Council Bluffs—WMam Seidler, '52, 4817 California St., Omaha, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY 

Central—^Joseph J. Sepkoski, '50, 1155 Loraine Ave., PlainEeld, N. J. Neur Jersey—^Joseph M. McKcon, '40, Rensselaer Kd., Esscv Falls, N.J. South Jersey—Thomas J. Auchter, '50, Munn Lane & Kay Drive, Haddonfield, N. J. 
NEW MEXICO 

Frands P. Hudson, '54, 2728 Palomas Dr., N.E., Albuqueitiuc, N. M. 
NEW YORK 

Bu#o/i>—John F. Enders, '53, 408 Capen Blvd., Buffalo 26, N. y. Capital District—C. F. Regan, Jr., '27, 441 Louden­wUe Rd., Albany H, N. Y. Central-Paul E. Hickey, '40, 218 Bronson Rd., S>"nicusc 9, X.Y. Gulden Circ/e—James F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkiray Lane, Bradford, Pa. Mid-Hudson Kaf/o'—Donald J. Re>-nolds, '53, 118 South Ave., Poughkeepsie, N. Y. Mohan}!: Valley—Kenneth F. Murphy, '54, 32 Emer­son Ave., Utica 3, N.Y. New York Cfo—William V. Cuddy, '52, 193 Co­lumbus A\x., White Plains, N. Y. Roehester—DomiM Booth, '49, 320 Carling Rd., Rochester 9, N. Y. .Sc/icn<-i:;ai/j—Robert L. Scliacfer, '48, 1100 Wavcll Road, Schenectady, N.Y. Syracuse—See "Central New York" Southern Tier—Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 Hamilton St., Painted Post, N. Y. Triple CiliM—George J. Haines, '42, 63 Davis, Binghamton, New York. 
NORTH CAROLINA 

North Carolina Cfu6—Donald ICelsey, '48, II15 Westridge Rd., Greensboro, N. C. 
NORTH DAKOTA 

Wlliam Daner, '53, 1106 So. Highland Acres, Bismarck, North Dakota. 
OHIO 

Akron—John L. Darago, '54, 1361 Hammel St., Akron, Ohio. 
Canton—James F. Weber, '57, Editoiial Dept., Canton Repository, 500 Market A\'c. South, Can­ton, Ohio. 
Cineinnali—Bertnmd A. Schloemer, '38, 2818 Ur­wiler Ave., Cindimati II, Ohio. 
 Year End, I960 

CIneland—hco J. Burby, '42, 2606 E. Overlook Rd., Clevekmd Heights 6, Ohio. Columbus—J. Robert Echenrode, '48, 375 East Dunetlin Rd., Columbus 14, Ohio. Dayton—George A. Pilaimi, Jr., '54, 1705 Har\*ard BK-d., Dayton 6, Oni.x Hamilton—Jerome A. U>^n, '41, 353 South "D " St., Hamilton, Ohio. Mansfield—John C. O'Donncll, '24, 191 Lind Ave., Mansfield, Ohio. Northwestem-Vntiiassx J. Otte, '35, 401 West Park St., Cold\v:iter, Ohio. OAio Valley—Jama J. Hatanzo, '52, 29 Oakland Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. ianifurij^Richard C. Hohlcr, '47, 2603 Eastivood Drive, Sandusky, Ohio. 77#in—Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., TUHn, Ohio. ToMo—Richard J. Kopf, '49, 2250 Casllewood Dr., Toledo 13, Ohio. Youngstown—Thomas E. Kerrigan, '44, 133 East Judson Ave., Youngstown, Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA 

OHahoma City—Or. Al R. Drescher, '38, 4415 
N. Thompson, Oklahoma City, Okla. 

Tulsa—]ohn F. Mohatt, '35, 3754 East 46lh PI., Tulsa 35, Okla. 
OREGON 

Charles Slatt, '33, 2835 N.E. I9th Ave., Port­land 12, Oregon. 
PENNSYLVANIA 

Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. Katter, '41, 
U. S. Bank Bldg., Johnstown, Pa. £rie—John McCormick, Jr., '53, 910 Washington Place, Erie, Pa. /forrufturf—Donald R. Meek, '50, 520 Park A«. , New Cumberland, Fa. Lehigh Kaf/ej^Darid C. Langlcy, '49, 1831 Levering Place, Bethlehem, Pa. Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. Philadelphia—Joha F. Moorhcad, '49, 159 Vassar Road, Bak-Cyowyd, Pa. Pittsburgh-PclcT F. Flaherty, '51, 5820 Elwood St., Pittsburgh 32, Pa. icronlon—Thomas P. Comerford, '42, 415 Clark Ave., Clarks Summit, Pa. IfffiM-Barre—Raj-mond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Minen Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. lfaCamj<ior»—Edward F. O'Dea, '57, 1254 Park Ave., Wniiamsport, Pa. RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS 
James ^L ^fcMul]en, '36, Providence Journal, ProWdence, Rhode Island. 
SOUTH CAROLINA 

Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., West­wood, Charleston, So. Car. 
SOUTH DAKOTA 

Black Hills—BcTtard Gira, *10, Custer, South Pakota. 
TENNESSEE 

CAo«anooja—Herbert J. Haile, Jr., '55, W. C. Teas Co., 1212 McCalUc Ave., Chattanooga, Tenn. 
Memphis—Raymond ^foran, '54, 1886 Monticello Dr., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS 

DaBas—John H. Brogan, '49, P.O. Box 786, Tyler, Texas. El Paso—James J. R>-an, '53, c/o Murray Hotel, Sil\*er City, New Mcrico. 
/foiulon—Lawrence J. Kelley, '42, 5025 Wooowaj, Houston, Texas. Midland-Odessa—H. Bjme O'NeiU, '45, 703 Boyd, AGdland, Texas. Rio Grande raBey--Robert Aziz, '49, 1205 W. Elizabeth, Browns^'ille, Texas. San Antonio—^William F. Markey, '51, 8746 Crown-hill, San Antonio, Texas. 
UTAH < 

Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearns Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
VIRGINIA 

Dr. Charles R. Riley, '39, 3604 ^fonumcnt Ave., Richmond, Va. rWma/er^Philip L. Russo, '49, 8033 Wedgewood Drive, Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON 

Spokane—Viobcn F. Merz, '47, East 229 Sharp A\-e., Spokane 2, Wash. llVilern—Joseph G. Lolta, '51, 2136 North 95th St., Seattle, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA 

Rudolph L. Di Tiapano, '50, 2308 Kanawha Blvd., Charleston, West Virginia. ^ C«n(raf—John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarksburg, W. Va. 
^viscoNsm 

Fox River Valley—^^ph H. Caston, '42, 530 Grove, Neenah, Wis. Green Bay—Wallace P. Christman, '44, 2423 Beau­mont SL , Green Bay, Wis. LaCrosse—Sieve Pavcla, '48,2311 State St., LaCrossc, Wis. itf^rri//—Augustus H. Stange, '27, 102 S. Prospect, A Menai, Wis. Milwaukee—Eugene J. Schumaker, '42, 2018 E. Lake Bluff Blvd., Xfilwaukee 11, Wis. Northwest Wisconsin—C. T. Downs, '33, 2l9'/j 
S. Barstow, £au Claire, Vfh. ' South Cfn/rn/—William P. Coigen, '33, 310 Ridge St., Mineral Point, Wis. 
Sautheastern—Zdmn E. Raymond, Jr., '49, 2820 , 21st St., Racine, ^Vis. • 
WYOMING _ 

Casper—Patrick H. Meenan, Acting Pres., '49. Midnrst Bldg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 

Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '2* (key man), Moreau House, 28 Zindabahar Lane„ Dacca, East Pakistan. Canada—Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. 
Chile—Hev. Frauds A. Provcnzano, C.S.C., '42,. | St. George's College, Aven. Pedro de Valdiviai^ 1423, Sanuago, Chile. 
£,ruai/or—John Moeller, '47, P.O. Box 213, Quito,. Ecuador. Guam—Capt. V. T. Blaz, '31, P.O. Box 2002,. Azana, Guam. Manila—Conrado Sanchez, Jr., '54, 83 Mayon St.,. Quezon City, Philippines. Mexico City—Telmo DeLandero, '37, Eugenio Sue­220, Xfexico City. Panama—William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 98, Balboa, t Heights, Canal Zone. Peru—Enrique LuUi, '45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru. Putrto Rico — Vice-Pres.: Paul ifcManus, '34, Calle Earle, No. 4, Condado, Santurce, Puerto-Rico. 
Rome—Secretary-: Vincent G. McAloon, '34, Palazzo-Btancaccio, Largo Brancaccio, 82, Rome, Italy;: Telephone 730002 i 
• <-' /;. 

An intellectual service of the University of Notre D<nn«'­for the constant enrichment of themin^ •• "r: 
of Notre Dame's diverse fcraiily: -\r.­
thesibliiDeTliDITIOf 
(• ,1^. 
^ '':-\i^ 
••^' 
rf 

AN IMPERATIVE OF PROGRESS-OUR HERITAGE ANDCONCERN^^ 
* A CHRISTIAN PROFESSION -IDEAS FOR OPTIMUM TRAINING ^i^ By Robert E. Rodes, Jr. 
look at law always in the light of its gosd, which'Is  ^  
justice, and to look at justice through the."iByes of.an  
'informed Catholic Christianity..'''  • •  '  , ­ r , •  
The  Law  as^ a  Calling  Our legal system is not a relic but a h^tage ; in  ;.  
it  are  embodied not  so much the ordinances  of.the  
past  as the hopes and aspirations of living ip.enr\ It  
is for each succeeding generation to-set its mark  on  
V Liberty and justice have been dreams in nearly every age and place. For us, and for millions of Eng­ it, to modify yesterday^'s solution by today's! exper-\ ience, yesterday's iaspirations byjtoday's insight / ';. "•  
lish-speaking peoples all over the world, although they are something less than fully achieved realities, they are a great deal more than dreams. We have brought them down from the realm of abstraction and woven them into the" fabric of our lives. For  The formal deposit of our law is to be_ found in abewildering mass of judicial ^decisions from courts all,over the world, together with an ever^increakngnumber of highly detailed statutes^ whidi,.for all'their   •' ­ 
this, we have the lawyer to thank more than anyone else. It, is he who stamps our dreams on the hard metal of reality. Other great nations have cherished the same ideals as we, but have failed to realize them ,  proliferation, attempt no more than to cover specific ^; minor fragments of the whole. "To ayoid being lost in this wealth of .material, it is always necessary;to\. remember, that each statute or "decision represents '  
simply for lack of some such basic piece of legal ma­chinery as the writ of habeas corpus. Generations of Anglo-American lawyers have made that writ the safeguard it is today. So it is with all of our rights and liberties. Lawyers have made them work and  someone's attempt to achieve justice within ' the ' framework of our system, in accordance with his; own conscience' and. in the context of arparticular situation. His attempt, for good or ill, remains with/' us, but so does his goal. In the law's never ending ;  
have given them a form in which they can'live.  In  
its,judicial precedents and legislative enactments  our  •^l  .  
legal system embodies the wisdom of generations of  
lawyers, bringing the experience of  our  people and  
the principles of justice to bear on day-to-day prob­lems. '•. : Notre Dame's Approach  Mr. Rddes is a professor in the Notre DameiLaw, ••'• School on leave of aiaence frorri the University during/the current academic year. Having been awarded a Law Faculty Fellowship by the Ford Foundation, He is at Oxford University, England, conducting research on.his 'Specialty, the''church-state problem-froni,the ' point of view of legal history. \ ,'  
^"  ,As is the case with any great field of learning,  there are differences of approach and outlook among V legal scholars that must necessarily.be ireflected in their teaching. At Notre i)ame, the approach is to  A 1947 graduate of Brown University,'Vrovidence,B. I., Professor Bodes attended JUiddlebury.^ (yemiont)College and obtained his IiLJS.'tn 1952'from the Har­vard Law School. Before coming to Notre Dame he ^ • was an insurance,attorney in Boston, Mass.} sedretarjf of,the Superior Court,of Nero Jersey arid a trieniberof • the faculty of Rutgers University., He hdspubliOiedseveral articles in legai periqdiccds. i, ' : ""y-• j.v; \  

Knowledge is more than equivalent to force. (Samuel Johnson) 
I , 

"Under a government of laws the lives, the fortunes and the freedom of the people are -wholly dependent upon the enforcement of their constitu­tional rights by an independent judiciary and by-an independent Bar. 
"The legal profession is a public profession. Lawyers are public servants. They are the stewards op all the legal-rights and obligations of all the citizens."—^^ Reginald Heber' Smitli^-Survey of the 
:yLegal Profession: Its Scope, Methods and Objectives, 
.;- 39 AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION JOURNAL 548 (1953). 
process of making justice live and work, what is good is gradually added to, what is bad or 'impractical is gradually discarded. Thus our legal system develops through a continual dialogue between what is and what ought to be. Notre Dame, therefore, insists that the student be taught to approach legal problems not only on the basis of a careful application of stat­ute and precedent, but also on the basis of an equally careful application of the insights provided by other disciplines, especially the social sciences and, above all, moral philosophy. 
vs. Law by Sociology 

In maintaining this; ideology, Notre Dame stands in opposition to two major schools of jurisprudence, the sociological and the analytical.- Adherents of the sociological school understand the practical aspect of the law — that legal judgments should be made in' terms of their actual effect on the society they are to govern. But, lacking a commitment to a system of ultimate values, they are often unable in the final analysis to say what"that" effect ought to be. Notre Dame shares withjthem their insistence on the needs of society as a standard for legal judgment, but adds what they lack—her own deep understanding^of the nature and purpose of man "and society, the heritage of her Christian tradition. -; 
vs. Law by Formula 

Adherents of the analytical school of jurispru-. dence attempt to.distinguish rigidly between morality and law, between what the law is and what it ought to be. They would base legal judgments solely on a' consideration of the formal elements of law. They, are unwilling to admit that the practical or ethical considerations which might be persuasive to a legis­lator should have anything to do with the judge's decision or the lawyer's argument Notre Dame shares , with the analytical school its appreciation that law. 
' and morality are not the same, but insists against it that the formulations of law are scarcely more than outlines which must be filled in by practical and moral judgments, and can be filled in in no other way. 
Notre Dame, then, views society as integral. She does not confine the principles of justice to special courses devoted exclusively to the subject, but makes -, them part and parcel of all she teaches.' .'; 
Z. The University Background 
This approach to law. cannot be taken in isolation.' la w must be seen in the context *of the society and the culture of which it forms a part The Notre Dame' 
-Law School is part of a great university. Founded in~ 1842, Notre Dame is one of the oldest Catholic universities in the country. It hEis grown into one of Jthe largest Scholars from all over the world are teaching and investigating a rich variety of subjects, all with that,integrated view of man and creation as , a'hafmonious wholeon which Catholicism has always 
/ insisted. Since 1869 The Law School has been a part of this over-aU intellectual endeavor, enriching it amd bang enriched by it Particularly in our time, when the connection between law and the other cultural and.intellectual achievements of society is coming to be more and more appreciated, this integration into the life of a great university is important to the study of law. The law faculty of Notre Dame are in day­to-day contact with important developments in every field of learning, and are contributing to those de­velopments. The close relationships between students and faculty, made possible by the fact that the School is and will be kept small, give the student a unique opportunity to participate in this contact and this contribution; 
GOOD BOOKS HAVIl 
Two novels 

CLAEK, WALTOR V. The Ox-Bow Incident. Gives a . 
• good picture of what happens when due process of ; law is denied. New American Library of World Literature, pp. 224, $0.50. Random House, ; 
1-^ 457 Madison Aye., New York 22, N. Y. 
LEE, HARPER. TO Kill a MocJcingbird. Includes tht.# trial of a negro accused of rape in a rural county in the deep South. 1960, pp. 296, $3.95. J. P. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia and New York. •• 
'••.". : : . ' ' • ^-^ 1 About the Supreme Court and the legal process ] 
BLACK/C. L. The People-and the Court, i960, pp. ! ,^238, $5.00. The Macmillan Company, New York^ 
Lives of Great Judges BowEN, CATHERINE DRINKER. The lAon and the j 
The very spring and root of hoiiesty and virtue lie in the felicity of lighting on good education. (Plutarch) 
Teaching Methods 

- Although the law takes into account many fields' of learning, cultural, scientific, philosophical,^ it must bring them all into one focus —the doing of justice between man and man or-between man and the state. However far afield we range for our material, we must keep this aim continually in mind. However deeply we go into the nature of man and of .the society he lives in,, it will do us no good unless we can solve­the,concrete legal problems he brings to our door. For this reason, the teaching methods at Notre Dame are based on continuous drill in the use of ail relevant materials for the solution of legal problems. 
The Case System 

In the first year, following the.method in general use in law schools since late in the jast century, the materials assigned and discussed in class are for the most part "cases" — that is, reported opinions of appellate courts in English-speaking countries. Orig­inally, as its foimders intended it, this method called for an analysis of each decision by the student to 
TO DO WITH LAW 
Throne. Life of Lord Coke. 1956, pp. 652, 56.50. 
Little, Brown and Compzmy, Boston, Mass. 
BowEN, CATHERINE DEINKER. Yankee from Olympus. Life of Mr. Justice Holmes. 1957^ pp. 322, 50.50. Bantam Books, Inc., 24 West 45th St., New York 36, 
N. Y. -" \ 
^lASON, ALPHEUS. BraTideis: A Free Man's Life. 1946, pp. 713, 56.00. -The Viking Press, 624 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y. -~ -. 
PuSEY, MEELO JOHN, diaries Evans Hughes. 1952, 2 vols., pp. 827, $15.00. The Macmillan Company, ^New York. . ' 
'9he Philosophy of Law 
O'MEAEA, JOSEPH. Natural Law and Everyday Law. Lecture delivered at the Yale Law School on Feb-' ruary 29, 1960. 1960, pp. 21, 50.50. Natural Law Forum, Notre Dame Law School, Notre Dame, Ind. 
T 
^^ ". . .• there is a -virtuein the Western tradition ^ of law that warrants, us in calling'it redemptive. - ,-• Western man has sought in, the idea of Jaw. a-manifold redemptioin —from the arbitrary despot-', ism of uncpntrqUeS power; from the threat or fact 
.' of injustice..to his person or his~ property; 'from, dispossession of his human and his civil ^rights;; from the degradation that "ensues lupon social in­equalities .destructive of his personal significance aiid worth; from disruption of his life, by the: irrational forces of passion, caprice, and chance.',' ­
—Eev. John Courtney Murray, SX 
,„.-....„.„..„„„..„„ .„„„„. _ „„.„ 
extract from the decision a "rule of law,'; which the student would then arrange with other rules extracted from other cases into a systematic body of rules to be applied-in future cases, "rhe-method, thus con­ceivedi corresponds, as can readily be seen, to the 
-conception of the nature of law entertained by the juialytical.school of jurisprudence described above. 
Law Schools have'tended in recent years to aban-• don this narrow approach to the decided cases, as 
.'they have become-.increasingly aware that- the law must be flexible enough.to respond" to social needs. Recognition of this fact has greatly broadened the area of considerations which are relevant in the study of the cases.". This development, desirable as it is, has carried with it in many schools the disadvantage of limiting the opportunity for the student to participate in cljissrooni work. The threads to be followed up are so vzurious and the materials so copious^ that the~^ instructor often succumbs to the temptation of using \ the cases merely, as a vehicle for the expression of his own insight^, reducing all but a handful of-stu­dents to a passive role in his classroom. "-. 
The Problem System 
Notre Dame takes advantage of its high faculty-student ratio to. give the student the benefit of this modem • development ~of the case method without sacrificing, the benefits of maximum classroom par^ tidpation. The classes are. kept small'enough so that each student can be called upon to participate regu-. larly. With each case he is given an opportunity to put himself in the place ^f the judge who decided it or of one or another of the, attorneys who argued it. Every ^avenue is explored to find a just and. workable-" solution to the problem presented by the case under consideration—one consonant-both with precedent and with present-day needs. The student is.given a chance to try to improve on the presentation of the case by counsel or on the decision of it^ by the judge. He is given, in short,. a thorough practical training in the" activities called for by his profession. He learns them.by doing them.' 
' In the secondhand third years, this practical train­ing is CMried one step further. The materisil assigned for preparation stiU consists largely- of cases. But now thelittention in class is focused not on those cases but on hypothetical problems whose solution requires an evaluation and application'of the assigned 
Whoso neglects learning in his youth, loses the past and is dead for the /uturr. (Euripides) 
cases and all other relevant materials. These prob­lems are taken up with the same thoroughness as the cases were in the first year, and with the same type of student participation. But whereas in the first year the student was chiefly concerned with critically evaluating the presentation made and the conclusion reached in cases already decided, now he is confront­ed, just as a practicing lawyer is, by problems for which he himself must find a just and workable solu­tion. Again, he is learning his profession by drill in the activities proper to i t . 
Individual Research 

Each class problem necessarily deals with a par­ticular assignment of cases and other materials. A practicing lawyer, however, must find for himself in a library the materials relevant to the solution of his clients' problems. Accordingly, the program at Notre Dame provides a heavy dose of library research. In the first year each student is required to brief a case on appeal and argue it before a moot court of three "judges." In subsequent years further participation in the moot-court program is open to qualified stu­dents in the form of a competition resulting in the choice of two winners' in the third year. Or a gifted student may achieve a place on the staff of the Notre Dame Lawyer, a student-edited periodical of national reputation, where he will have a chance to do research and writing on legal topics of major importance. These activities are to be found in some form in most good law schools. Because they are necessarily lim­ited to a select group of students, they are supple­mented at Notre Dame in order to provide a com­prehensive program of legal research for the entire student body. Thus, every student who does not par­ticipate in Lawyer or moot-court work is required in his second year to write a carefully planned series of short research papers. In his third year he must choose a single topic for one long research paper. 
The necessity of having a view of the whole field of law as well as of particular courses is further emphasized by the method of examination. Each examination in the School contains questions in more than one course, not labelled ,as to the particular course they apply to. Also, there is given in every semester a comprehensive examination, in which each question pertains to more than one course and some questions pertain to courses taken in previous semes­ters. ; 
Learning by Doing 

The program,, in short, is designed to provide, the student vsdth intensive training through practice in the intellectual activities of a lawyer — in the use of the methods of thinking that are a lawyer's stock in trade and his claim to leadership in the community. 
The trial of cjises, one of the-major areas of the lawyer's activity, cannot be neglected in any realistic program of legal education. Accordingly, in addition 
to the moot-court arguments referred to above, which are on the appellate level, every student is required in his third year to prepare and conduct, from begin­, ning to end, the trial of a hypothetical jury case. The trials are presided over by-Honorable Luther M. Swy­gert, United States District Judge for the Northern District of Indiana. Faculty members from the sev­eral colleges of the University, their wives, local busi­ness and professional men, and members of the South Bend Police Department serve as parties and wit­nesses. First-year students are required to serve as jurors. \Since, generally, lawyers are not permitted to serve on juries, first-year students are thus given a unique opportunity to get the feel of that character­istic and extremely important institution, the Ameri­can jury. It goes without saying, of course, that the third-year students who try the cases can get from them no more than a taste of real trial work. The experience does, however, help to mitigate the terror of the student's first appearance in court for an actual client. Even more important, it helps to broaden the student's understanding of the legal process and deepen his insight into it. And it emphasizes the point, insisted on throughout his legal education at Notre Dame, that all his learning wiU be of little avail unless it can meet the final test of the courtroom. 
The Curriculum 

It is believed at Notre Dame that the imique ad­vantages offered by a smsdl school can best be realized if the faculty takes the responsibility for determining the coiu^es most appropriate for the integrated view of the law that such a school is capable of providing. Accordingly, there are no electives at Notre Dsime. This makes it possible for every course to build on the foundation laid in courses already taken and, in turn, to lay a solid foundation for courses yet to be taken. At the same time, it prevents too early spe­cialization— a vice, prevalent in many educational programs, which is destructive of the broad intellec­tual outlook necessary for a professional man in any field of endeavor. The prescribed curriculum is de­signed to provide the student with a thorough groimd­ing in all the major fields of law, and to bring home to him their interdependence. A creative approach to any area of the law requires an understanding of the whole. 
The curriculum also provides a solid grounding in the great and underlying principles of law and legal practice, with courses on Jurisprudence, Natural IJaw Eind the Lawyer's Professional Responsibility. While the principles taught in these courses should be and are part and parcel of every course, an under­standing of them is furthered by their systematic 
•treatment in particular courses. 
, in her program, then, Notre Dame aims for a clear understanding of the principles of justice that are the foundation of all law, and for those practical legal ­skills that make-justice work. She strives always for a merger of the liieoretical and the practical that will make our legal system; a living instrument for the government of a free people. 
What sculpture is to a block of marble^ education is to-the soul. (Addision) 
CALENDAR 
Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: BUFFALO—First Tuesday of every month 
at 8:30 p.m.. Hotel Sheraton, 715 Dela­ware Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. In addition, a

• table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reser\-ed for lunch at K. of C, 506 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CEDAR RAPIDS—Communion Breakfast Meeting, fourth Sunday of even months: 
8:00 a.m. Mass at alternating parishes; 
9:00 breakfast meeting at Bishops. 

CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) ^ of every month. Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NE^V JERSEY—Second Wed­nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St., Perth Amboy. 
DECATUR — Monthly luncheons, fourth Wednesday of every month at Greider's Cafe, North Water Street, Decatur, 111. 
DEN\'ER—First Wednesday of every month, luncheon, Navarre Restaurant, Denver. 

•DETROIT—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12 noon, Jacoby's 624 Brush. 
ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wives. Antler's Restaurant, 7:00 p.ra., Sept. thru June, Erie, Pa. 
FORT LAUDERDALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner at 7:30 p.m.. Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
KANSAS CITi'-Call Plaza 3-2160. 

• MIAMI—First Thursday (night) of every month at Hotel Everglades, Biscayne Boulevard, Downtown Miami. 
OKLAHOMA CITY — First Monday of each month, night, check McFarland's Drivc-In Theater, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. 
PHILADELPHIA—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club. 

^PITTSBURGH-Weekly luncheon at the ' Variety Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12:15 p.m.. Home Dairy, 111 East Main, second floor. 
ROME — Open House nightly, Scoglio Di Frisio Restaurant, Via Merulana 256, ph. 734619. Ask for Vince McAloon, club host. 

isT . LOUIS—Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday. 
SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — First Friday of every month, noon luncheon get-together at the Racine Elks Club. 

TERRE HAUTE — Third Tuesday of every month, 7:30 p.m. Meeting at the 1^ Terre Haute House. 
WASHINGTON — Weekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 

WILKES-BARRE—First Tuesday of every month, luncheon meeting, 12:15 p.m., in % the main dining room. Hotel Sterling. 
Alabama 
JOHN' L. aV.MPBELL, '33, was elected presi­dent of the X.D. Club of Alabama at a ditiner meeting on Oct. 21, 1960, in Birmingham. He succeeds S. EUGENE SULLIV.AN, '25, who ser\'ed as the Club's first president. 
Other new olliccrs arc J.ACK O'BRIEX, '31, vice-president; TO.M BOEHLIXG, '52. sccretarj--Ireasurcr; and directors TO.M NAJJAR, JOHN GLE.VSON, HARRY REICH, and PAUL SCV­LISE. REV. PETER SHEEHA.\ will continue as chaplain. 
The Club met in December on the occasion of 

Universal Xotre Dame Commimiou Sunday. 
—THO.M.\S J. BOEHLING, Secy.-Treas. 

Baltimore 
In keeping whU the universal observance of the annual Notre Daine Communion Sunday, members and their families participated at Mass on Sun­day, Dec. 11, at the new- Cathedral of Mary Our Queen. Breakfast followed at BERXIE LEE*s Pcnn Hotel, Towson. Guest speaker was REV. WIL­LIAM KAILER DUNX with an illustrated talk un his assignment to Jerusalem and the surround­ing area. 
A noon luncheon is being planned for tiie latter part of January' which will be a civic event for members as citizens and businessmen of the Mar>'­land community. 
At the IlcIIcndale Gridiron Club of Oct-9 some 30 Club members and friends enjoyed a pleasant afternoon watching the Colts in their none-too­successful effort against the Green Bay Packers. In spite of the game an enjoyable afternoon was recorded for all who attended with expressed hope of a repeat next year. 
Wives of members planned a luncheon at the Sparrows Point Country- Chib in January- under the chairmanship of Mrs. FR.\NK MURPHY, wife of the president. 
—WILLIAM L. G.\UDRE.\U, Secy. 

Berkshire County 
The Notre Dame Club of the Bcrkshires held a meeting on Nov. 21 and a Communion breakfast in December, as \vell as participating in a College Night at the local Catholic Youth Center. 
—FR^WK M. LINEH.\N, '45, Scc>-. 

Boston 
Tlic Notre Danic Club of Boston joined the nation in mourning tlic death of the beloved ^Vrchbishop of Philadelphia, the late JOHN CARDINAL 0'HAR,A, C.S.C. Our Chaplain, KT. REV. CORNELIUS DOXOV.VN, represented the Club at the Solemn Pontifical Requiem Mass and funeral on September 5, I960 at St. Peter 5: Paul Cathedral in Philadelptiio. The Cardinal's kindness to the Boston Club will never be forgotten. "His Memory Will Endure—May his Soul Rest In Peace." 
On September 7, 1960 at the University Club, the officers and directors were hosts at a reception for the 47 incoming members of tlic Class of 1964, their parents and past '*Man of the Year" winners. The group heard an excellent address on Catholic education delivered by Monsignor Timothy F. O'Lcarv*, Director of Education, Archdiocese of Boston.' TIM TOOMEY, '30, headed the General Committee for this affair. ROBERT L. MARR, '58, was appointed General Chairman to Iiead the com­mittee for Universal Notre Dainc Communion Sun­day to be held in the Boston area on December II, I960. Details will be furnished membership in a regular club mailing. 
.-\n Notre Dame men wlio have recently moved, into the Boston area are inWted to drop the secre­tary a note giving name and address and wc will see to it the names wilt be added to the roster and Wc will tr>' to be helpful in every* possible manner. 
We of the Boston Club are tremendously proud of the great honor bestowed upon our beloved Uni­versity by the Ford Foundation with the unrc­strictcd grant recently made to Notre Dame. We know our loyal alumni will respond to the appeal made by the Foundation at Notre Dome and will contribute spiritually, physically and financially in sucli a fashion that the goal set will be reached months before deadline. Tliis we must not fail, this wc must complete! 
At this xvriting the plans for the plane invasion of Miami on November 10, i960 for the game at the Orange Bowl on November 12 \%'crc nearly com­pleted and it u-as hoped the few remaining plane scats on Blue and Gold Special would be filled be­fore departure date. President BILL DACEY, '49,. was chairman of Florida Special. 
The Scholarship Fund is especiallv grateful to 

PAUL F. HELL.MUTH, '40, lay trustee of the Uni­
versity and loyal member of the Club, for the gen­
erous contribution of 3 sets of each of Dr. Tom 
DooIe\''s books personally autographed by Notre 
Dame's great humanitarian jungle doctor. 
—TI.M TOOMEY, Secy. 

BufFalo 
A meeting was held Oct. 4 at the Hotel Lenox in preparation for the successful excursion to the N.D.-Na\y gome in Pliiladelphia, Oct. 28-30, with JOHN RODGERS in charge. All the Irish games were broadcast locally over WAVOL. 
Following First Friday Club Oct. 7 and Nov. 4 at the K. of C. and a meeting Nov. 1 at the Lenox, the Alumwives Fashion Luncheon was held on Nov. 12 at the Hotel Lafayette. Ensuing events were a meeting on Dec. 6, a Family Communion Breakfast at the Hotel Markeen follomng Mass at New Cathedral Chapel, and the Christmas Dance at tlic Statler-Hilton on December 30. 
Coming events include a Basketball Luncheon on February 4 and monthly meetings on January 1D> February 7, ^^a^ch 7 and April 4. 
Club members were asked to pray for F.ATHER BAR^VTTO and the late BILL DAVIS. 
—JOHN F. ENDERS, JR., Pres. 

Calumet Region 
Tlic Notre Dame Corporate Family Communion Sunday was obscr\ed Nov. 13 with a Mass and breakfast at St. Thomas More Church, ^fumter. Guest speaker BISHOP A.NDREW G. GRUTKA of tlic Calumet Diocese. 
Tlie Christmas Dinner-Dance was scheduled for Vogel's New Restaurant, Whiting, on Dec 27, with dancing to the Ken Boldi Orchestra. 
Central N.J. 
x\t the November meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Central New Jersey, the same team of offi­cers were re-elected to serve for an additional one-year period. To continue are: JOE SEPKOSKI, '50> president; JOHN LESICKI, '31, rice-president; WALTER KAV/\NAUGH, '55, treasurer; and BILL RICH.ARDSOX, '55, secretary. 
In addition, the following members continue to-serve on the Board of Directors for a one-year pe­riod: D.AN GR.\CE, '51; JACK DOYLE, '38; BOB QUINX. '23; ED SADOWSKI, '50; TONY GEIEFFRE, '32; and TO.M KENNE.ALLY, '30. 
T7ic club sponsored a successful trip to the Notre Darae-Na\y game with 7 buses leaving from the Central New Jersey area. Wc hope to make this an annual affair \%-hen the team is pLiying in the East. 
Programs coming up this winter will be the Uni­versal Xotre Dame Night at the Park Hotel in Plainfield and a cocktail party tentatively scheduled to coincide with the Notre Dame-St. John's basket­ball game. 
Mr. DJ\N GRX\CE, '51, is hard at work on the Fund Drive for the ne^v library and has some top people lined up to help him, including GEORGE. KEEXA, JOE SIMOXS, '44, and JACK DOYLE, '38. 
Mr, JACK MULLEX, '53, was appointed du b legal counsel and has handled the new incorporation papers for the club. Jack is currently with the legal department of Johnson and Johnson. 
WILLL\M M. RICHARDSON, Secy. 
Year End, 1960 27 

Central New York 
A crmvd ^^•as on hand for tlie annual "send off** day of golf and a dinner held at the BcIIcv*uc Coun­trj' Chib on September 13 for the new Xotre Dame students and their parents from the Central Xew York area. BILL GEDDES, '40, was chainnan and the guest speaker was REV. JOSEPH M. CH.\M. PLIX, *49. At a business meeting held after the dinner, the nciv officers for 1960-61 were elected. Thev arc: President PAUL HICKEY, MO; Vice President JACK VARNEY, '53; Secretary- TOM STUBLER, -'54; and Treasurer BILL HASSETT, '47. 
On October 8 the annual smoker was held at Casc>''s Inn in Dewitt under the chairmanship of FRED DeL/\XY, JR. An cnjo>-abIc afternoon was had by all the members in attendance as they watclied the World Scries on TV and listened to the S>Tacuse-Holy Cross, and Xotre Dame-Xorth Caro­lina games on radio. A business meeting was held after the smoker and a tentative program of e\'ents ^^•as presented to the members. JACK McAULIFFE was appointed general clialrman of the annual 
U.X.D. Xjght. 
T. W. STUBLER, JR., Sees'. 

Chicago 
KXUTE ROCKXE Xight, AVcdncsday, November 30th, at the Illinois Athletic Club, the Xolrc Dame Club of Cliicago had llie biggest Xotre Dame sports program in the Club's history'. Included among the guests were: Coach JOE KUHARICH; Athletic Di­rector ED KRAUSE; DAVE COXDOX of the Chi­cago Tribune; GEORGE COXXOR; ED HOER­STER (St. Rita High Scliool), most i-aluable player of the Xotre Dame-Xorth western game; BILL PFEIFFER, star of the Xotre Dame freshman team (DePaul High ScIiool), and a galax\' of Xotre Dame personalities. 
At tlic dinner, the Knutc Rocknc Memorial Tro­pliy was presented. Tliis award is made each year to the outstanding Chicago area Catholic high school football player. Eacli Catholic high school in llie area nominated two boys Cor the award and each of these bo>'s and their high scIiooI coaches were guests of the Club for Knute Rocknc Xight. 
Over 500 people attended an aflcr-lhe-game cock­tail party at the Edge\\-ater Bcacli Hotel- Au open inntation had been extended to Xotre Dame and Xorthwcstcm Alumni. 
Many thanks to co-cliairmen PAT SHANXOX and FRAXK O'DOWD for a job well done.* 
TIic Xortliwcstcrn Alumni Club had a lundicon on the day before the game in the Terrace Casino of the Morrison Hotel. Xotice of their invitation was sent before the luncheon to all Xotre Dame Chicago Club members. TIic two athletic directors, Stu Holcomb and ^loosc Krause, spoke at the hincli­con. 
A group of Alumni and friends of tlic late LUKE 

J. TIERX.VX '36 and '38 presented a fund to the University in his memory. It has been used to pur­cliase two new wooden statues from Oberammcrgau for the main altar at Sacred Heart. FR. JOYCE said Benediction in Sacred Heart Chapel at 5:00 
p.m. Saturday, Xovembcr I9th, with a group of Luke's friends attending. 
To create a spirit of friendly competition between schools because of their proximity of location, an annual award for the outstanding player from each team will be made. A committee from each school selected tlic most valualile players this year; ED HOERSTER, Xotre Dame and Dick Thoniton, Xorlhwestern were selected. 
ED FOX, Chairman of the Interviewing Com­mittee for Applicants to the University, passes oa his thanks again to all those who have helped inter­view in the past. Houcvtr, due to the great num­ber of applicants, more Alumni are needed to inter­view this year. 
Cincinnati 
The annual picnic, honoring incoming freshmen and Uidr fathers, was held on September 6th. A large group of students, their fathers, and alumni turned out for the affair. JOHX McCORMICK was Chainnan and was ably assisted bv CHUCK 
UMA. 
Tlie first regular monthly meeting was held on October Ilth. Plans were made for the annual Com­munion dinner to be held in December, and for the Christmas sdiolarship ball. Also planned was an ex­cursion to tlie Miami game. 
—JOHX R. LaBAR, Secy. 

CHICAGO—Head table for the banquet following the Chicago Club's annual golf outing included (1. to r.) Col. Frederick B. Snitc^ Athletic Director Edward Krause, M. C. Wally Phillips (at mike). Club President George Alenard, Coach Joseph Kuharich, Father Ed­mund Joyce, and Joe Pagliari. 
7. Plans were completed for the Club trip to the 
Cleveland 
X.D.-M.S.U. game on Oct. 15. Meetings followed Tlie Reverend THO.MAS J. 0*DOXXELL, CS.C, 
at JERRY SARB's Lounge on Xov. 11 and at the was tlic special guest of the Women's Committee of 
home of JOHX COURTNEY, SR., on December! the Xotre Dame Club of Cleveland at their first 
9. ' 
annual cocktail dance held at the Terrace Room of the Statlcr Hilton Hotel on September 10, 1960. 
Denver 
Mrs. LEO BURBY, wife of our club president, was 
chairman of the dance. In charge of ticket res­The Denver Club was honored recently by a visit ervations were Mrs. JOHX J. REIDY, JR., and from FR. JAMES MORJXX, director of admissions Mrs. ROBERT DOWD. Handling the entertain­at the University. The dub president, C/\RL ment was Mrs. PATRICK CAXXOX. The fine re­EIBERGER , escorted him around the city to visit sponse by the members to this event enabled the with all high sdiool principals, the superintendent Women's Committee to make their own personal of parochial schools and with the Denver public 
contribution to the Scholarship Fund. The officers school officials. In addition, both of these, plus wish to personally thank the women for their fine JL\r SHEEHA X and JIM COUGHLIX (co-chair­efforts in promoting this cocktail dance. man of the scholarship committee), presented a pro-. 
On September 13th, a quarterly business meeting gram at the Teachers Convention concerning schol-\ was held at Rohr's Restaurant. Special guests of the arships and admission to the University. An inter­
Club were the new freshmen and their dads. TIic viewing committee, which will have the same mem­Campus Club officers and students provided a one bers as the scholarship members for this year, was hour panel disctission on subjects of special interest set up. This latter committee is already contacting to ihe new freshmen. The highlight of the meeting interested scliools and students throughout the was the kick-off of the 1960 Sdiolarship Campaign area. Its members also include DR. ED DELE-with the announcement by Chairman TO^^ MUL-HAN"n', GEORGE EV.VXS, ART GREGORY, and LIGAX that the prize for this year's sdiolarship JOHX .MOR*\X, JR. While here, FR. MORi\N was drawing was an all expense paid week-end trip to the the guest at a luncheon provided through the gen­Xotre Dame-Miami Game on Xovembcr 12th. erosity of WALTER COUGHLIX (father of Jim) 
which was attended by many alumni. FR. FRi\XK Tlie dra\ving was held Xovembcr 1st at Rohr's GARTL.\XD, editor of the Catholic Boy, was also Restaurant. A large turnout by the club members a \-isUor and spoke at the Teadicrs Convention. ­enabled the diairmen to present the Scholarship FATHER MOR^VN also visited many of his old IFund with another large donation. The Officers and Vetville parishioners. 
members of the Club wish to commend TOM MULLIG/\X, chairman, FR^VXK XOVAK and JI.\I COUGHLIX and BILL BR.\DLEY were in GARY VONDRAX, co-chairmen, for the extraor­charge of this year's drawing for an all-expense-pald dinary effort expended by them in making this trip back to the Pittsburgh game. Tlie proceeds vcar's campaign another huge success. went to the Club's sdiolarship fund. Tliis trip was ' Chairmen JOHX COYXE and RICHARD ^^L-in conjunction with a local railroad's special train 
LER began making preparations for the Christmas trip to this game and was arranged by JI.M Dance to be held Friday night, December 30th, at HAXLON. Many Dcnveritcs took advantage of this the Carter Hotel. The chairmen announced that opportunity to visit the campus. Part of each ticket this year's dance has been dedicated to the older goes to the scholarship fund. members of the Cleveland Club and special music 
A freshman send-off was held at the president's has been arranged for their cnjo>-ment. A special home, at which seven students and their parents feature of the dance will be a Dixieland concert to attended. The Club officers and other alumiti were 4 
take place during the intermission. Dress is to be on hand to answer all questions and to show the formal and all members and friends and campus color movie. Also present was a grad student In students are invited to make their reservations early. 
physics, TERRY DOOHER, who u-as offered four —JOHX P. CO\*XE, Secj". 
other fellowships but diose Xotre Dame. 
Over 120 enjoyed a wonderful mountiun picnic at the home of Frank Conway. Both the adults and Dallas kids engaged in games, under the direction of ^trs. Eiberger, tliat kept them busy all afternoon. Re­
On Saturday, September 3, I960, there was cele­freshments were supplied through BILL MA­brated by Monsignor O'Brien a Solemn High Mass HOXEY. Mary Ann Triiz and Joyce Baier helped for the late Cardinal O'Hara. Tlie Mass was cele­with the arrangements. ­brated at the Cathedral at 8:30 a.m. 
Tlie .Annual Christmas Dance will be held during fWe also held a Back-to-School Smoker at the the holidays. Usually over sixty or seventy couples, Knights of Columbus Hall on East Northwest High­including present students, their friends, parents and way on Wednesday, September 7, at 8:00 p.m. 
alumni, are present. Tliis is the one big opportunity —JOHX TOLLE, Scc>-. 
for the present students and the old grads to be­come acquainted. The dance this year will be under the diairmanship of R^VY TRITZ. 
Dearborn 
The Club's monthly luncheon whidi was just Tlic Annual Drawing and a social meeting were started last year is enjoying great success. Last^ held at the home of EMORY DAKOSKE on Oct. month 16 aliunnt came to hear current Informatlonfl 
28 Year End, 1960 
on the UniveniUy. LEON ARCHER and \UKE HALLIG/VN promote each month this lunclicon which is held at t!\c Navarre Restaurant at noon on the first Wednesday. GERRY SMITH and JIM LOG/\N arc busy preparing Foundation drives to obtain funds to meet the requirements of the recent Ford Foundation gift to the University. A scries of luncheons were planned as a kick-ofl when Fr. O'Donnell and Ricliard Bowes of the Foundation oflice came to Denver in the fall. 
,.A A discussion club whidi will consider current is­
^sucs important to Catholics is being established under the direction of BOB ZEIS with the as­sistance of FRfVNK KEEG/VN of the Notre Dame faculty. Plans were also made for Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday in December. Mrs. CARL EIBERGER, the president's wife, has been investigating the possibility of establishing a Ladies' Auxiliary' to work with the Club in its various fund drives and other activities. 
KEN ADAMSON, last year's varsity football captain, and FRxVNK TRIPUCKA, former all-cVmcr­ican, are now playing with the Denver professional 
football team. Tliis summer a sports lunclicon was 
'held at which the owner of this team was guest along with Ken. JOHN DEE, coach of tlie cham­pion Denver Truckers Basketball Team, also brought MIKE GR^VNEY of last year's basketball squad. The Club listened to 20 minutes of long­distance phone calls with MOOSE KR/\USE, JOE KUHARICH and JOHN JORDAN, taped by a\R L EIBERGER. 
—RAY TRITZ, Sco*. 

Des Moines 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Des Moines celebrated .Athe Club's annual Communion Breakfast Sunday, ^iccembcr 4th, beginning at the 8:00 a.in. Mass at St. Augustin's Church. Following Mass and Holy Communion the Club held its breakfast and annual business meeting at the Hotel Fort Des Moines. In attendance were outgoing president TOM NOLAN, 'M, who presided; JIM BOESEN, '54, outgoing vice-president; JIM McCOMB, '54, outgoing scc­retarN-trcasurcr; HAROLD KLEIN, JOSEPH WHEL/\N, MARK WONDERLIN, JAMES NO­L.\N, PAUL EIDE, ROBERT aVNNON, C/\RLE­TON D. BEH. JR., JOE JOYCE, ANTHONY CRITELLI, BERNARD KE.\N, JOHN PL.\NALP, DR. ED POSNER, JOSEPH BISIGNANO, and 
•flOBERT DREY. Officers elected at the meeting to begin a two-year term arc as follows: JAMES F. BOESEN, president; PAUL EIDE, vice-president; and JO­SEPH B. JOYCE, sccretarj-treasurer. The next project on the Club schedule is the annual Notre Dame dance at Hotel Savcr>-, De­
cember 27, 1960. —JOSEPH B. JOYCE, Secy. 
Detroit 
«
The first fall party was a Sports Get-Togethcr with a special welcome for freshmen and their dads in September 12 at the Skylight Room. i\mong he special guests were FATHER TO.M O'DON­NELL, alimmi-administratiou liaison officer; ED ".MOOSE" KRr\USE, athletic director; and JIM ARMSTRONG, national alumni secretarx-. Chair­man BOB CRONIN was assisted bv TO.M VER­BIEST and ED RONEY. The 1960 Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was obscr\-cd Sunday, Dec. II. with Mass at the Shrine of the Litllc Flower, Royal Oak, followed by breakfast at Oakland Hills Countr%- Club, Birmingham. FATHER CHARLES COUGHLIN, pastor of the Shrine parish, gave the sermon, and the speaker ^ t the breakfast was FATHER WILLIAM J. NEID­
VIART, C.S.C., assistant superior of Morcau Sem­inarv- on the campus. Tlie theme was the Ecu­menical Council. PETE KER.\L\N, JR., and JLM SULLIVAN were co-chairmen of the event, attend­ed by classes as \V3S the Sports party. The Christ­mas party 'was held on Dec. 23 at the Sheraton-Cadillac in conjunction with the annual Christ­mas dance. JACK MURRY and JERRY ASHLEY were co-chairmen. 
J=lint 
On November 22nd, President VICTOR E. GEORGE called a membership meeting of all members of the Notre Dame of Flint at the Elks. Present were TI.M HALLIG.\N, TED M.\NSOUR. FRED M.\NSOUR, GERRY R^VNDALL, DR. D.\N SHEERHAN, R/\YMOND KELLY. WALTER NAGER, LARRY S.AXE and PAUL HUGHES. WALTER NAGER, cliairman of the excursion for 
^Colre Dame-Michigan State game at South Bend, stated 289 out of a possible 300 tickets sold. He gave a very fa\'orablc and encouraging report. It was stated there would be something to send to tlic new library fund. 
TIM HALLIGAN gave a vcr>* complete report on what the University is trying to do in contacting all members of the .-Mumni and friends of Notre Dame for this new librar>*. He also teportcd on the two days he had spent at the University as a guest. 
R.VY.\IOND KELLY, L.\RRY SAXE, and VIC­TOR GEORGE arranged for JIM GIBBONS to come to Flint for the annual Optimist Club Ban­quet to honor all the High School boys in this area. He gave a vcr>-fine talk to the boys and received many compliments. 
The annual breakfast is in the charge of RtVY-
MOND KELLY and will be held at Steadman's 
Restaurant following a Mass at St. Joseph Hospital. 
REV. JOHN J. aWANAUGH will speak and ako 
be the celebrant at the Mass on Sundav, December 
I8lb. 
—FRED MANSOUR, Publidiy Chairman 

Fort Wayne 
The 23rd Universal Notre Dame Communion Sun­
day was observed in Fort AVayne on Dec II with 
Mass at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Concep­
tion, followed by a father-and-son breakfast at 
Hall's Guest House. MSGR. WILLIAM J. LESTER 
was the speaker on the theme of the Ectmicnical 
Council. Election of officers followed. BOB LU­
THER and JOE DANIEL were co-chairmen. 
On Dec. 20 the Club was host to a nip-and-tuck basketball game between Notre Dame and Indiana University at the Colosseum. Attendance w-as good in spite of inclement weather. 
Grand Rapids 
Elections were held in August and new officers for the coining year arc FR/\NK F.ALLON, '33, president; BOB KIRCHCESSNER, '52, Wcc-presi­denl; BOB WOODHOUSE, '47, treasurer; and JOE .\IE.AD, '54, secretar>-. 
A general membership meeting was held on Sep­tember 8tli to acquaint the members \%'ith their new officers for the coming year and to greet the new students planning on attending the University. At this meeting, the coming events for the fall and winter were discussed. 
Our golf outing at Cascade Country Club was a huge success on September 22nd, highlighted by "MOOSE" KRJVUSE giving us a rundown on what to expect for the coming football campaign. Our president, FRxVNK FALLON, closed the evening with a tribute to the late C/\RDINAL O'HARV As of this date, the Club's annual excursion to the Notre Dame-Michigan State football game appears to be a huge success, under the chairmanship of JERRY MULVIHILL, '53. In November we planned another general membership meeting to plan the annual Communion Breakfast and our Christmas Party for the children in December. 
—JOSEPH H. ME.AD, '54, Sco". 

Houston 
On October 4, I960, the Notre Dame men of 
the Houston area met in the Oriental Room of 
^VeIdon's Restaurant for their fall meeting. It was 
highlighted by movies of the 1959 Notre Dame 
football season, a welcome lift coming so soon 
after this year's Purdue game. 
We were pleased to welcome at the meeting 
many alumn! who are newcomers to the Houston 
area. LOU RYMKUS, '43, and FRED WALLNER, 
'51, Iiave joined us this year, and arc living up 
to the spirit and tradition of Notre Dame men in 
performing a tremendous job with the Houston 
Oiler Professional Football Team. Also on hand 
were FRANK .MILNE, '57; HAL SPENCER, '56; 
and JOHN NICKNISH, '55. 
We in Houston are proud of another of our 
group, RIVERS PATOUT, '60, of Na\-asota, who 
has entered the diocesan seminary here. He joins 
CHESTER BROUSSARD, '60, who entered this 
year, AL DeCRANE, '53, and MATT SCHU­
MACHER, '52, arc t^vo newcomers In 'our club 
who have recently moved to Houston. 
Wc also heard from FRtVNK J. NEY of Hous­
ton, who at 78, is still a most ardent supporter oC 
Notre Dame and the Houston Notre Dame Club. 
His father, JOHN NEY, ^vas In the class of 1874. 
On Saturday, October 8, Notre Dame men of the area gathered for a Mass for the repose of the soul of JOHN FR.ANCIS aXRDINAL 0'H.ARA, 

C.S.C. F.ATHER THO.M.AS CE.MON, a student at Notre Dame when Cardinal O'Hara was Prefect of Religion, celebrated the Mass at St. Michael's Churcli. 
Plans for the annual Christmas Dance are now being completed. Tliis year's affair is being handled by THO.MAS SCHEXNAYDER, '44, and HAL SPENCER. 
—EDWIN D. McCR^VRV, JR., Sccv. 

Indianapolis 
Our club held its 6rst annual "Alumni Ball" on October 8th, chairmanned by BILL MOONEV, '57, and BILL NfcGOW.AN, '57. With a crowd of 200 couples, the dance was definitely a social and finan­cial success. During the intermission of the dance, the drawing for our second annual drive for the Indianapolis Club's Scholarship Fund was held. This likewise proved to be most successful, and the club will be able to continue to help one graduating senior attend the Univcrsitv. PAT FITZGERx\LD, '52, and DICK OWENS, '42, were in charge of the raffle. 
ROBERT V. WELCH, '50, is the Greater In­dianapolis General Chairman for the library fund. DR. THOMi\S P. aVRNEY, '37, will be the local Special Gifts chairman for the Ihiec-ycar diive. 
REV. RICH.\RD GRIMM. C3.C., was chosen as the prinapal speaker at our Corporate Com­munion-Breakfast on December Ilth. LEO BxVRN-HORST, '49, was the chairman of this annual father-son meeting. 
Universal Notre Dame Night for 1961 has a 
CLEVELAND—^N.D. Foundation drive for the Memorial Library was the benefit of a football "second-guessing" stag at the United Polish Club, Lorain, O., featuring a talk by "Horseman" Don Miller, '25; {1. to r.) Joe Godle^s-slu, Lorain city councilman; Ed Rcidy, '42; Miller, and John Chapla, *23. 
Year End, 1960 29 
tentative date of Monday, April lOth, set aside at 
the Indianapolis Atlilctic Club. An outstanding 
speaker of national prominence is promised by 
chairman BOB WELCH, '50. 
In closing we would like to congratulate WM. 
F. FOX, JR., '20, on his 40th annivcrsar\- with the Indianapolis Xc\\3. Twcnty-onc of these years have bi'cn as sports editor. Bill is known to us all as the "Dean of Indiana Sports writers." 
—BILL McGOW.AX, JR., '57, Sec>-. 
Kansas City 
The ninth annual Kansas Cit>' Alumni Dance at 
the Hotel President ^*"as a sellout again this year. 
The success of this Dance capped a ver>' fine year 
for the Club and provided the impetus for begin­
ning 1961 with a diallenge to do even better. 

JOHN MASSMAX reviewed the progress and 
financial growth for the past year to the group 

assembled; the president promised an even more 
vigorous program for 1961. 
Our Board of Past Presidents is now in the 

process of renewing the scliolarship given yearly 
to an outsanding local freshman. Possibly in the 

light of Notre Dames' Library Drive, we shall take 
on a new and greater responsibility. We hope to 
have more on tliis subject next issue. 
—G. "JLM'* HIGGIXS, Sec>-. 

Kentucky 
On Wednesday, December 7, 1960, basketball 

between the University of Xotre Dame and the 
University of Kentucky was played at Louisville, 
Kentucky, %nth reservations handled by T. A. 
BR.^ND. 
The Notre Dame Club of Kcntuckj- took great 

pleasure in making the above announcement. We 
made plans for a large and enthusiastic turnout 
for tliis renewed battle between two basketball 
**srcats." M'e had a large block of tickets at our 
disposal and invited all olumn! to Join our cheer­
ing section. 
Tlie basketball game was one of many activities 

planned for the coming montlis. Our summer sea­
son was culminated with a fine Communion Break­
fast held at the Trinity High School Chapd. A 
good turnout enjoyed a pri\-ate Mass followed by 
breakfast. JOE BOWLING, '52, made plans for 
our December Communion supper. Tliis was held at 
the Bcllarmine College Chapel and wives were in­
vited. 
With Christmas at hand the oHicers with the 

help of JACK DOUGHERTY, '49, and BOB 
JONES, '49, started in on the Christmas Dance. 
Tliis year's dance was held December 29 at the 
Brown Hotel and promised to be the highlight of 
the Holiday Season. 
—TOM BRAND, '55, Scc>-. 

Lehigh Valley 
The Lehigh Valley Club planned its annual foot­ball excursion for Oct. 29, a Journey to Philadelphia for the N.D.-Na\y ganic. L. J. WYN*NE was in charge. 
Los Angeles 
Nov. 25-27 was a big week end for the Greater Los Angeles area. In addition to beating Southern Cal on tlic 26th the Irish had the following events. On Friday, Xov, 25, the annual Pre-Gamc Rally was held in the Grand Ballroom of the BiUmorc Hold, attended by members and guests of all the L.A. area Clubs \nth actor PAT O'BRIEN and genial WALTER O'KEEFE as master of ceremonies. Tlie date for tlie annual Notre Dame Communion Sun­day Ma a and breakfast was moved up to Sundav, Xov. 27, so that FATHER HESBURGH and FA­THER JOHN WTLSON could be guesu. TIic Mass was held at St. John Vlanney Church, and ilie breakfast at the Chapman Park Hotel was open to the whole family. JOE KUHARICH and the team were also inWted. L.A. Club President MORT GOODMAN and GENE CALHOUX were in on ar­rangements for tlie week end. 
Maine 
The X^otre Dame Alumni ^Vssociation of Maine conducted a football ticket excursion trip drawing rearntly and the winner of a trip from Boston to ifiami by air was JOHN F. LAUGHLIX of Portland, Maine, one of our most diligent and lo>-al Xotrc Dame men. The fact that John per­sonally took 47 dianccs did give him a better pcr­cenUi^c of the raffle box, but he had to" "luck" it the rest of the way. Tlie results of tlie drive 
 Year End, 1960 

WTHAT DO YOU MEAN HE HASN'T GOT A QUARTERBACK? (This promis­ing candidate is the grandson of Ed Bren­nan, '31, and ^vill get his equipment from his great-grandfather, Jack McAllister.) 
in our imall club enabled us to put over $300 into »>ur Scliolarship Fund. 
ADAM WALSH, Captain of the 1924 4-Horse­men team, is now working for Geigcr Bros, here In Maine as an advertising specialty and goodwill building advisor. In other words, he is selling calendars, diaries and specialty advertising. 
The next project to be done by our Club will be tlie Xotrc Dame University Concert band whicli '^vill make an appearance in Lewiston, Maine, on Saturday, April 8, Wc arc not a big Club, but we are active and hope some day our numbers trill increase. 
—R.\Y GEIGER, Seo'. 

Miami 
Our meetings of August and September were both held at the Monte Carlo Hotel on Miami 
FORT WORTH—Reception for Father John A. O^Bricn during annual convention of Diocesan Council of Catholic Men %vas attended by alumni, parents and friends at the Country Club. Father O'Brien dis­cussed the new Afemorial Library campaign and the formation of a local alumni club. With hun are Charles Kaler, Jr., '49, Cor­pus Christ!, and Dan Mcancy, '47, Ft. Worth. 
Bcacli. Tlie major portion of both meetings was devoted to the organization activities on the week end of Xovcmber 12th when the Irish were to meet the Miami Hurricanes. Wc were fortimate, through the efforts of JUDGE VIXCEXT GIB­LIX, to have the FOUR HORSEMEX present at our 'smoker* preceding the game and other festivi­ties. These events were held at the Monte Carlo Hotel wliicli ^iis the "X'otrc Dame Headquarters" for the week end. 
Plans are being formulated for our annual^ 

State Convention this year and it was suggestei^ 
that wc look into the possibilities of the *'Diplomat 
West" with all of its facilities including a golf 
course. 
Because of the football week end and its activi­

ties, we decided to limit the annual ''Irish Sweep-
takes" to 50 tickets to be distributed inside of 
the club. The prize u-as (four) 50-yard line tickets 
along with a free week end for two at the Monte 
Carlo on Xovcmber 12th. The raffle was sched­
uled to be held on October 22nd at our annual 
football television party at Dan Rowland's estab-
Ibhment. Free food and refreshments were scr\*cc^ 
with members supplying their own spirits or scda^ 
tion, whiclicvcr tlie outcome might be. 
Subsequent plans were in the mill regarding a 
social event in December along the lines of a 
dance or an Informal party. 
—JAMES R. WILSOX, Secy. 

Mid-Hudson Valley 
Tlie historic old Bcekman Anns Hotel In Rhine-
beck, Xew York, u-as the scene of the Mid-Hudson 
Vallc>-'s annual Kickoff Dinner meeting on Satur­
day, September 17» 1960. A point of interest i ^ 
that the Beckman Amis Is the oldest hotel i; ^ 
America, haring first opened Its doors In 1700, and 
Js full of early .-Vmcrfcan furniture, silver^vare, 
glassware, etc 
Thirt>- alumni, wives and guests attended, with all ladies of Xotre Datnc receiving blue and gold corsages. Tlic featured speaker of the evening was REV. JOSEPH A. WALL, CSSR, who spoke on the "Contemplative Religious Life.'* Father Wall explained the contemplative life and its personal connection with the laity and supplemented his talk by distributing booklets covering the life of the Redemptoristinc Sisters. Film highlights of the 1959 X'^otrc Dame football season were alst^ shown. Coordinating the afTair for their rcspcc^' tlvc areas were BOB ORTALE, BRL\X O'XEILL, and CHARLIE BECK. Attending a Club activity for the first time were Marv' Lou and DICK YE^VGER. Dick, '56, Is employed by IBM in their Poughkccpsic Laboratory". 
—DOXALD J. RE\*XOLDS, Pres. 

Milwaukee 
Tilings arc humming again for the X'.D. alumni in the MiUvaukce area. With the newly elected officers on the job many activities arc being plan­ned that we hope will niterest ever\-onc. Oii^ President is GEXE SCHU.\L\KER, '42. Gene is a native Milwaukeean and father of six who operates the Adjustable FL\turc Co. Tlie vice-president and secretary are the same as last vear 
— JACK WILKIXSOX, '51, and TOM HERMAN*, '57, respectively. JI.M O'BRIEN, '57, has filled I the position of treasurer. Jim is employed by the \ Square D Company. f 
Sunday, August 21, wc got together with our f families at Greenfield Park for our annual picnic. \ Tlic day was a huge success (in spite of the mos-v quitocs) thanks to the work and planning of JOE \ MESEC and JIM O'BRIEX. Tlic clilldren conw|^ peted in a \-aricty of races and games including ^ a water-melon eating contest. Tlien the fathers ; took over the field for a game of soft ball. Tlie \ hard hitting team captained by FRxVXK E/\TOX j downed the team of CH/VRLIE 0*XEIL 7 to 2. ; TOM DICKSON acted as umpire in the slugfcst and made a fairly good attempt at keeping the peace. Tlie losers generously hosted the winners to a round of the already free beer. 
The University of Xotrc Dame Club of Ntil­waukee had the annual golf outing at Fort Wash­ington C. C. on Tuesday, August 30. We had ^ nice crowd for golf, with CHARLIE GEISER, SR.r and his son, Charlie, Jr., turning in a couple of beautiful scores. Charlie Jr. left Xotre Dame In '59 and is presently in Marquette Medical School. Also near par on that same card was BOB ROLFS. The three SNYDER bo>-s, TOM, JOHX and PAT, j were seen puttering around out In the pasture, j Alter a nice day in the sun and a couple *'cool | ones" at the bar, St. Pete ser\-ed us forty thicif ] 
I 

juic>* fillets. ^Vith everyone's hunger abated BILL MELANEY did the honor of presenting the prizes, llmv these were earned no one wiM ever figure out. JUDGE ROBERT CURLEY %%-as given an honorable mention for coming out in a non-clec­tion year. JLM O'BRIEN was the lucky winner of a "golf award," and he didn't arrive until after sunset. An automatic ^(a^tini mixer was awarded to JOHN COUNSELL before we realized that he was a guest of TOM SNYDER and going ^Ato enter as a freshman in the fall. Well, maybe 
"hing s arc different back on campus now. When your cliainnan left it appeared that a few friendly games of chance were getting underway. 
Looking alicad, wc had our annual Family Com­munion Sunday scliedulcd for December 11 at St. Charles Boys Home. ILVROLD WATSON, ch^r­man, planned what promised to be a most reward­ing morning. His Excellcnc>- William Couzcns, Archbishop of ^fiIwaukcc was to be the celebrant at a Pontifical Mass and to speak at breakfast. 
—TOM HERMAN, Sco*. 

•Mohawk Valley 
The Notre Dame Alumn! Club of the Nfohawk Valley elected a new slale of officers to ser^'e for the next two years at the annual fall business meeting at "The Irish House of McGuirl" Res­taurant in Utica. 
Officers elected were: KENNETH MURPHY^, *54, Utica, president; RICHARD TROSSET, »53, Utica, vice-president; DANIEL a\LL.\N, *49, New Hartford, secretary; and THO.MAS RE/\G^\N, *49, New Hartford, treasurer. 
D.VNIEL WATERBURY, '44, Whitesboro, who /'j^was the out-going president, was appointed to tlic "club's executive committee. Incumbent members of the executive committee who were re-appointed are: EDWARD SWEENEY, '30, Utica; ANTHONY GIRUZZI, Utica; DR. DONALD G.AVAG.AN, 
•42, Herkimer; and DR. DANIEL SHAUGHNESSY, *30, Herkimer. 
The club also voted to send a telegram to MYRON POTTIOS, Notre Dame football cap­tain, congratulating the team members and Coach JOE KUHARICH on the job they had done, and offering them the 100% backing of the area alumni club. 
^ The club Iield its annual observance of Uni-
W^'ersal Notre Dame Communion Simday on De­cember 4th in Utica, with FR^\NK DONALTY, *32, ser\*ing as cliairman. 
Approximately 70 alumn! and guests attended Mass and received Communion at St. John's Church, Utica, and breakfasted at Hotel Utica. 
Brother Hillar>', CFX, principal of the new Notre Dame High School iti Utica, was the prin­cipal speaker. He reviewed the report made re­cently by the American Bisliops meeting in \\''ash-Ington. 
Brother Hillar>- said the bishops cited the need for "the reaffirmation of indi\'idual responsibility ^i n a nadon of organ izationment.*' 
As an example of this indi\idual responsibility. Brother Hillary spoke of the "Jungle doctor of the Far East," DR. TO.M DOOLEY. The doctor, a Notre Dame BS '48, "does not leave it up to someone else to get things done," said Brother Hillar>-. 
FR.\NK HACKETT, '11, Utica, was honored at the breakfast as the oldest living Notre Dame alumnus in the Mohawk Valley. Hackett, w*ho graduated a half ccntur>* ago, is a native of Toledo, but has lived in Utica since 1023. Ife was em­
^. ployed by tlie State Department of ^^ental Hy­^S'^^if^ 3^ Utica State Hospital until his retirement in 1953. 
Re\'crend Francis AVillenburg, CSC, head of the Catholic Charities in Utica, gave the invoca­tion. 
Tlic annual Notre Dame Christmas Dance was held in conjunction with the campus club on De­cember 30 at Twin Ponds Golf and Country Club in Ne\*- York Mills. MICHAEL McGUIRL, JR., '49, Utica, was 
^elected Oneida County \VcIfarc Commissioner in 
^th c recent balloting on November 8th. This is of particular importance since ^fcGuirl was the only democrat to win in the county. And, although president-elect Kennedy carried the county, Mc­Guirl carried it by more than Kennedy did — nearly 5,000 votes. 
Tlic club is mourning the death of the wife of DR. D.VNIEL SH/\UGHNESSY, '30, Herkimer, who passed away at 52. Dr. Shauglmessy is a 
^member of the club's executive committee. 
OMAHA AND COUNCIL BLUFFS—Alumni and students enjoy the First Annual Golf Stag sponsored by the Omaha Club last siunmer at the Omaha Country Club. 
New Mexico 
Follmving the July 31 picnic at the Pecos our social-minded wives held their first coffee on October 4. The affair ^\-as at the .Albuquerque home of Club President FRxVNK HUDSON and was so wcU thought of that the ladies arc now planning an informal supper at one of the Hos­pitality Rooms in Albuquerque. The event will be for Alumni and their wives. Plans call for sending notices to all alumni in New ^fexico so tliat those from out of town who might be In Albuquerque can plan to attend. 
Club plans for the coming year are being firmed up and led off with our annual television party this year watching the renewed rivalry- with North­western. 
^Wve gotten a few inquiries so a word of ex­planation is probably in order concerning BILL BENEDICK 5er\-ing a second terra as Treasurer 
— he needs another year to get the books bal­
anced. —BILL HARVEY, Secy. 
New York 
On September 1st a contingent of N.D. men from the N.Y.C. area boarded a bus for a trip to Philadelphia to pay their respects to our beloved former president, the late John Cardinal O'Hara, who was lying in state in the Cathedral. Led by President BILL CUDDY, the group included JOE TR/\CY, BILL MURPHY, JL\f .McGOLDRICK, JL\r SHIELS, JOHN BURNS, RICHIE BARBER, ED HOYT, D/\N O'NEIL, TOM BRADLEY, VAS CUNNINGHANf, FLO McaVRTHY, BILL a\MP ­BELL,JI.M .\L\CDEVrrT,TIERNEY O'ROURKE, JI.M 0'SHE.V and BOB FINK. 
On September 12th, during the height of Hurri­cane Donna, more than 200 brave souls turned out at the Wcstcliester C.C. for the annual Fall Kick-Off meeting. Tliose in attendance were treated to a fine evening of entertainment topped off by the appearance of 75% of the Four Horsemen, DON .MILLER, HARRY STUHLDREHER and JINfMY CROWXEY. Congratulations to GEORGE VERGARA \v-ho was responsible for the arrange­ments. Also thanks to CHUCK COLLINS who handled the M.C. duties. BILL CUDDY did an excellent job on publicity, but Donna in the last anal>'sis captured the headlines. 
The New York Athletic Club was the scene on September I3lb for the annual Freshman Smoker attended by over 250 new freshman from this area and their fathers. Congratulations to ED PAULSON and JACK ROBINSON for an excellent program. JOE LORDI, '27, president of the NYAC, welcomed the fathers and their sons on behalf of all the members of the club. Congratulations to TONY E^VRLEY, JOE TRACY, BILL' FALLON and the other members of their committees for their work in screening such a fine group of ne\v N.D. men. 
September 27th was Mug Nite at the NYAC for members of the Club under the auspices of the New York City Division led by RON MEALEY and his hard working fellow officers. More than 50 men turned out for the collation and to in­dulge in some light conversation. 
As reported in this column in the last issue of the ^VLUMNUS as among the events of importance scheduled for October, the 1st Notre Dame Forum was held on the evening of October 12th at Hunter College in N.Y.C. This forum was open to the public and their reaction shown by the attendance figures was genuinely heartwarming, ilorc than 250 were in attendance to hear and participate in a discussion by GEORGE SOKOLSKY, na­tionally s>*ndicated columnist and DR. GEORGE SCHUSTER, Laetare Afedalist and former presi­dent of Himter College. Mr. Sokolsky offered a "Definition of Conservatism for I960" while Dr. Schuster countered with a "Definition of Liberal­ism for 1960." 
Singular praise must be given to BILL CUDDY who conceived the Idea for the Forum and handled all the details. The program was well publicized in the N.Y. Times and other leading N.Y. papers. Pres. Cuddy announced the program for the sec­ond In the series, scheduled for the last week in November with the participants to be PAUL M. BUTLER, former Democratic national chairman, and CLi\RENCE MANNION, former dean of the NJ). Law School. Both of these gentlemen were to give their analysis of the November elections. 
FR. MICftXEL MURPHY, C3.C., Is presenUy assigned to French Hospital and has generously offered his services to act as Club chaplain. Fr. Murphy replaces FR. RICH.\RD GOR-MAX, C.S.C., who has been transferred to Stonehill College. 
AL PERRINE has joined the Notre Dame Foundation team as the representative In the Northeast. 
FRED JOYCE, '23, reports that the Four Horse­men were present at his grandson's recent iJiristen-Ing. Tlic new prospect for '80 was named Kenneth Knutc Forsythe. 
Chairman JIM PO^VERS, '52, reported that plans for the Navy Trip to Philly on October 29th had all been finalized and promised a record turn­out. A special N.D. train took everyone directly to the 30th St. station, where buses then whisked them to the stadium. 
The Westchester Division announced that a Fall Cocktail Dance'would be held November l3th at the Larchraont Yacht Club. JACK GARVEY and GENE MAGUIRE were hard at work on the de­tails. 
December Ilth was the date for this year's an-
Year End, 1960 31 

nual Communion Brunch. Chairman u'as GUS 
HARDART. 
Tlie New York City Di\-ision holds a lundieon 

gcMogcUtcr on the last Tlmrsday of cver>' month 
at the Midston House in X.Y.C. All arc cordially 
invited and we wish to extend this invitation to 
all N.D. men lo attend when convenient. All 
X.D. men from out of town who might be in 
New York periodically may wish to take this in. —BOB FINK, Sec>-. 
(Ed. Note: Just a word of appreciation lo the offi­cers and governors of tlic Xcw York Club (or their thoughtfulncss in altering the form of their annual campaign for the important Scliolarship Trust Fund because of the possibility of conflict with the Library Fund drive. Best of luck to the Club on both ef­forts) . 
Northern California 
In the interest of full and free political discussion, the San Francisco Club's October lunclieon featured Chan Mcloy, ABC radio-TV personality, former president of the Young Republicans and one-time commander of California's American Legion, triling why he supported Ricliard Xi.xon and the RepuLH-
Omaha and Council BlufFs 
In Xovcmbcr llic Onialia Club sponsored a square dance with great success, reports President ROB­ERT L. BERRY. Details of this and other events will be given in the next issue. 
Oregon 
Prc.\T CHARLIE SL.\TT, '33, has kicked ofT his 

second term by another call to have our Club lead 
the alumni in pcrcenlagc of contributors to the 
Foundation. In 1959 we hit 65% to rank among 
the top in the nation. This year. Gang, let's be 
TOP! As Charlie says. "Xcar enough is not good 
enough!" 
Tlic program-year ahead is off to a good start. 

Program co-chairmen, the battling HUGHES boys 
(J. ED, '55, and TOM, '57) have already lined up the first two affairs. BOB HE^\LY, '53, fully re­covered from a recent illness, was chairman of the annual Communion Breakfast on Dec 4 at the University of Portland. Co-chairmen for the Christ­mas Dance, Dec. 23. arc TOM HALEY, '57, re­cently arrived from South Bend, and BOB BESIN'­SKI, '57, a new addition both to our Club ranks and the Univ. of Portland faculty. Welcome to both you men and congratulations on taking such an active interest in our affairs right from the start! Thanks to you, Ed and Tom, for orbiting us so promisingly, especially when Ed is the new papa of J. Edward, Junior, arrived Sept. 25. Con­gratulations! 
Saw ART BUTINE, '21, hauling some X-ray equipment but no cliancc to talk with him (com­mercial: Mattern is the make, isn't it. Art?). 
G. T. McDERMOTT, '27, telling us he has a new invention to outdo his nationally-known Roto­tiller. Good luck with it, G. T. Congratulations to FATHER JOHN WALSH for his "Spotlight Alumnus" appearance in a recent issue of the ".Alumnus." There's no heartier N.D. fan! It's good to Icam of the return to work of DORWIN PALMER, '43, and AL RA^L\CCIOTTI, U7, after recent extended illness. Both report they are in fighting trim. RUDY H/\\LMOXD, '55, has bought a new home across the river in Vancouver, Wash. Rudy is district rep for Pfizer pharma­ceuticals. Likes to hunt and fish—and this is the country- for it. ED 0'ME(\RA, '40, is back in his old spot as city editor of the Oregon Journal, after tlie paper's return to Its own presses follow­ing joint publication with The Orcgonian. Ed also is a weekly contributor to our arclidloccsan "Catholic Sentinel" with his pungent book re­views. Hope tlie Journal news never sets to be this stale, Ed! 
Back to the Foundation: JUDD MORAX, '54, all pepped up from the rcndcz\'ou5 on the campus, is set to really put the heat on us hereabouts for the Libmrv'. Let's all do our best with Judd to forward this most urgent need of the University. Books and librarx- remind us that.BILL ME.AGH­£R, '48, took himself back to scliool at tlic Univ. of Washington this summer on the ncxt-to-Iast leg of his American Banking Assn. thesis and degree. Bill is credit audit chief for the U.S. National Bank here. Make sure your balance Is right, boys, when Bill comes around! And notliing like adequate life insurance to bolster your balance sheet, eh. 
Don*'In?—mc, too, says your scribe, who recently had the honor to represent the Oregon agency' at the 125th anniversary- of the Xew England Life, in Boston. 
—TOM M.AGEE, '32, Scc>-. 

Peoria 
Tlic 1960-61 fiscal year of the X'oire Dame Club of Peoria got underway Xovcmber 10 at St. Pliilo­mena's School with the election of officers. Out­going President MAURICE J. CICCIARELLI, '55, presided as the following were selected to head the group for the coming year: JOHN F. MANION", BSG '56, is the new president after serving the club as secretary during the past year; district manager for Clark Oil & Refining Corp., John and his wife, Mary Ann, have a two vcar old son, Kcrin Patrick. THOMAS ECKLAXD, BSC '53, became vice-president; United States Gypsum Co. employ's Tom as district large Job salesman; he and his wife. Lots, parent Timothy, Amy Catherine, and Peter Tliomas in their gro\%-ing family. An­otlicr U.S. Gv-psum employee as sales correspon­dent is DENNIS POWERS, AB '56, elected treas­urer at the meeting; Denny and Patricia arc the proud parents of one and half year old Christopher. A newcomer with United Insurance Co. of Amer­ica from Youngstown, Ohio, is the sccretarv, WAR­REN ASHBAUGH, AB '56; local district mgr. for the insurance firm. Warren and wife, Constance, arc parents of Micliclc and Kristin in their in­creasing family. 
New members welcomed at the meeting were ji.M MCCARTHY', AB '56; BOB MANNING, JR., LLB '60; TONI J. SALUTO, BS '60 (who also won two tickets lo the Iowa game as a door prize; he's leaving for the .Army tn January)* Planning for the Annual Communion Breakfast, a Christmas Holiday dance, and Universal Notre Dame Night got underway also at the meeting. Alumni and friends in the area who would like to help on any of the committees for the events during the coming year should contact TOM ECKL.-\XD at 685-4691 in Peoria. 
Another highlight of the meeting of November 10 was the showing of the movie produced by the House Un-American Activities Committee en­titled "Operation Abolition," Tlie film was pre­sented by Attoniey BOB STRODEL on behalf of Keystone Steel and Wire Co.; Bob prefaced the showing witli remarks based on his experience as an agent and then Instructor in the U.S. Army counter intelligence corps; presently, he Is a rescr\'c officer in the corps. 
TIic local alumni club Is working in cooperation with the Notre Dame Foundation toward the Uni­
versity's goal to attain the $18 million. City 
Foundation co-cliairmen are BERNARD J. GHIG­
LIERI, AB '44, and WILLIAM WO.MBACHER, 
LLB *51; Special Gifts Chairman is Ri\LPH E. 
(DUTCH) JOHNSTON, '30. 
REVEREND ROBERT S. PELTON, C.S.C., 
head of the dept. of theology and assistant reli­
gious superior at the University of Notre Dame, 
was the guest of honor at the .Annual Notre Dame 
Communion Breakfast In Peoria on December 18, 
I960. Tlic Mass was celebrated at St. Maryj| 
Cathedral by Father Pelton; the Blessed Sacranienfl 
was distributed lo a large group of Notre Dame 
alumni, former students, friends, and parents of 
present students of the University of X'oire Dame. 
"TIic Meaning of the Ecumenical Council to 
Notre Dame Men in Today's World" was the 
topic of Father Pellon's address following the 
breakfast held at the. Mecca Restaurant. Co-
Chairmcn for the event wtrc BILL AVO.MB.ACHER, 
'51, and TO.M ECKL.AND, '53. 
JOH.N F. .MANION, Prcs. 

Philadelphia 9 
The big X'aw-X.D. week end started with a Pep Rally in the main ballroom of the Ben Franklin Hotel Oct. 28 with BUD DUDLEY presenting FA­THER JOYCE, MOOSE KR.\USE, RIP .MILLER, and HARRY STUHLDREHER. For the convenience of those attending festivities on Saturday, Oct. 29, TY DEMPSEY chartered buses to run from the Ben Franklin Hotel to the Municipal Stadium and re­turn after the game. TIic post-game cocktail party-was held In the main balhoom of the Ben Franklin Saturday evening. There was continuous music and a large appreciative crowd. 
Back at the October ineetlng President JOH?fl .M0ORHE.AD presented a ciborlum to the Club's adopted Texas missionary REV. Jx\MES A. DOX'­NELLY, C.S.C., supplemented at Christmas by a gift of Vestments. The Xovember meeting was post­poned to the I5th to assure a good turnout for elections on X'ov. 8. The investment club also met at the meeting. Tlie Miami-X.D. trip on the week end of Nov. 12, outlined in the last issue, was a roaring success. 
JOSEPH WHITE was chairman of the 23rd An­nual Universal Xotrc Dame Communion Breakfast at the Barclay Hotel following Mass in Our Lady's Chapel at the Cathedral. Tlie breakfast was 5er\'ed in the main ballroom of the Baiclav Hotel. Guesfl speaker was the RE\'. HUGH NOL-AN, Ph.D.T chaplain of Immaciitata College, speaking on the significance of the forthcoming Ecumenical Council. .Again there were guests from each of the Catholic League high schools, selected by the players as the 
ROME—Eternal City Club initiation dinner honors a most reverend guest: (clockwise from top) Bishop-elect Theotonius Ganguly, C.S.C.; Father Richard Tcall, Brother Theophane Schmitt, Brother Philip Cistone, Brother John Kuchenbrod, Anthony Bruschi, John Kroha, Mr. and Mrs. Dave Skory, Mrs. Chris Cochrane, and Vice-President Cochrane. Off camera %vcre Father John Gerber and Secretary Vince McAIoon, but much in evidence is 
the Scoglio^s famous dessert, "spumone*' (ice cream). ^ 
32 Year End, I960 
most vahiablc members of their squads. A trophy was presented to the League's most v-aluablc player, scltfcted by a poll ot these boys. Tlic December meeting was held on tlic I3th, and the January meet­ing and election of officers was scheduled for Jan. 10. 
Pittsburgh 
Tliis year llic ^^ass In honor of Our Lady of llu-Imniaculalti Conception u-as celebrated at St. Paul's 
Aitlicdral Sunday morning, Dec. 4, followed by a urunch at the Pittsbursh Athletic fVssociation. The breakfast speaker was DR. S.AMUEL HAZO, '48. professor of English at Duqucsne University and a nationally honored poet. C;\RL A. ECK was chair­man. 
The University Club was the setting for the Christmas Dance on Monday, Dec. 26, to the muiic of Jack Purcell. Door and Table prizes completed a wonderful holidav evening at a modest price. 
JOHN BRILEV filled in for GEORGE KINGS­LEY as chairman of the annual retreat at the Pas­sionist Falhere' St. Paul's Retreat Ifouse January 
08 . President PETER FL.\HERTi' has promised some new wrinkles in '61, including a ladies' bridge luncheon and fashion show in the spring, an earlier golf outing, the Pitt game week end as a local fall event, and a combined family Communiuu breakfast instead of separate stag and family events. 
Rochester 
The annual X.D. Family Communion Breakfast was observed on Dec. 11 at AfcQuaid Jesuit High School under the chairmanship ot JERRV .\IOEDE, assisted bv JOHN C.\SEY and DOX BOOTH. 
^TIic THO.M.AS TIER-NEYs and EDWARD 
vCHICKLER^ were co-chairmen of the annual Christmas Dance on Dec. 30 in the Ontario Rmml of the Manger Hotel. Door prizes were distributed at the modestly priced event, and the proceeds were earmarked for the N.D. Foundation. 
Rome 
With traditional Xotre Dame dispatch, the Rome club arranged for a Mass to be olTered here on the day following the death of C.\RDIX.\L 0'H.\RA. Tlic Mass was ollered in his Titular Church in Rome, SS. .\ndrew and Gregory. .Ap­
^oprtately, it was said at the altar where St. Gregory the Great inaugurated the famous Gre­gorian Masses for the deceased. At a date yet to be determined the oincial requiem services will be held and attended by the entire American Roman community. 
.•\s our Vice President, CHRIS C0CHR.\XE, '46, prepares to return to the States, heaven has sent a new member in the person ot D.-WE SKORY, '48 AB, '49 Law. Dave, here with his wife and children is .-Vmerican legal consultant for interests in the Middle East and North Africa. Another arrival: FATHER GER.\LD L. POTTER, 
^ 2 M.\. from Grand Forks. North Dakota, here ™r graduate study at North American College. 
.•\t an annual initiation dinner, the Skor>*s shared honors with the following new members: Bishop Elect THEOTONIUS G.ANGULY, C.S.C, en route for consecration in Dacca, India, FATHER JOHN CERBER, C.S.C., following study at Ox­ford; FATHER RICHARD TE/\LL, C.S.C, en route back to Santiago. Chile; BROTHERS PHILIP CISTOXE, and JOHN KUCHEXBROD, C.S.C., new facultv members at Notre Dame School, Rome: and ANTHONY BRUSCHI, new faculty member at same school. And on another occasion: FATHER LOUIS COUTU, C.S.C., Sccrctarv to 
t
ther General, CHRISTOPHER J. OTOOLE, S.C. Summertime visitors as they arrived: sister of TO.M NOONAN, '47, of Shorthills, N.J.; priests from S%racuse. friends of FATHER HESBURGH, F.\THER FRANK HARRISON, '32. and JOHN TERRY, '42, all of Syracuse; NANCY RYAN, St. Mark's '60, Shelbs-iille, Ind.; STEWART R. RYAN, '64; aunt ot P.\f DURKIX, circa '48, and BILL, '51, of Waukegan, III.; aunt of JACK PEHLER, '« . and TERRY, '65; JOE HILGER, SR., '28, jn d JOE JR., '60, Columbus, Ind.; -MSGR. SABO 9 f South Bend; TI.Nt TAYLOR, '62, of Grosse Pt., Mich.; TOM HAR\'EY, '63, South Bend; BISHOP XELLIGAN, ci-chief of chaplains. Armed Forces, Canada; mother and sister of JOHN' HEXCHY (R.I.P. China) of Taunton, Mass.; FA­THER GEORGE FISCHER ,C.S.C., N. Dartmouth, Mass.; FATHER HAROLD RILEY, C.S.C., of 
N.D. campus; TOM CLE.\RY, '38, N.Y.; D&VX 
AICHARDS, '57, St. Joe Hall, N.D.; FATHER %D SHE/\, C.S.C; DR. D. XIGRO, '14, PrcNy of Rockne Club; BILL YOUNG, '46, en route to assist Holy Cross Missions in Uganda; FRj\NK and .Mrs. VEXNER, '49, Toledo, O.; FATHER JOE POWERS, CS.C, Portland U.; FATHER LOUIS RINK, CS. C of Uganda; FATHER LOUIS PUTZ, FATHER TO.M KELLY, of N.D. and Portland; RAY and Mrs. DURST, '26, River Forest, 111.; famous "BILL" SCH.MITT, '10, of Portland; FR,\NK QUISH, 'II, Detroit; R. V. BUGXI, '31, of Dhahren, Saudi Arabia; TERRY CROSINA, '60, St. -Man's; SISTER JOHN D.WID, CS.C, en route to Pakistan; BISHOP J. McSORLEY, OMI, of Philippines, who named his high scliools there ".Notre Dame"; T. G.WIN KING, '56, Tulsa, Okla.; PROF. VINCEN-T SMITH, cx-N.D. faculty; BROTHER L,\.MBERT, CS.C, of NDU; JOHN A. LEMMER, '18, cx-N.D. summer faculty, and his wife EMILY, one of few women with N.D. degree, '34 MA.; Dr. and Mrs. B. ifclntyre, parents of WILLIA.M McLXTYRE, 'S»; Carl Hil­kert and wife, brother of ALBERT HILKERT, '11, and JACK, '23, father ot EUGENE, '43; friends of JOHN MURPHY, '12, and benefactor PETER REILLY (deceased); wife and daughter of attorney JOSEPH SMIET/\NKA, '28, ot Golf, III.; 
HENRY FORD II sent regrets could not dine at club; BIXG CROSBY, contacted through JOHN "JUDGE" CVRBERRY of Los .Vngeles, was grateful over phone for invite too; uncle and aunt of JOE CVRROLA, tackle, '62, U'vandotte, Mich. 
Tills is necessarily a partial listing of all drop­pers-in during the summer. i\s usual, everyone is welcome to our Roman greeting and treating serv­ice: ring us up and look us up. See "Club Calendar*' in the ALUMXUS for address and phones. 
—VIXCE .McALOOX, '34, Secy. 

St. Louis 
The annual Communion Breakfast was held on Dec. 4, \*-ith Mass at St. Luke's in Richmond Heights followed by breakfast at the new Cheshire Restaurant. Tlic faniilv event was addressed bv REV. GLE.\X BOAR.\IAX, CS.C, University pre­fect of religion. 
The annual Christmas Dance was held on Friday, Dec. 30, in the Khorassan Room ot the Hotel Chase. Jack Engler's orchestra provided music for the alumni-student-parent-guest event. 
YOU CAN HELP 
NOTRE DAME 
BY Sending a personal contribution Submitting names of friends inter­
ested in the University 
Advising N.D. Foundation Office if your company has a 'plan of giving* Informing University of your cor­
poration's 'areas of interest' 
Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.e. paintings, equipment, books, etc.) 
Naming the University as a benefici­ary in your insurance policy 
Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations in your community 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Spokane 
Tlie second Annual Retreat promoted by the Xotrc Dame Club of Spokane took place the week end of September 23rd at Immaculate Heart Re­treat House, Moran Prairie, Spokane. The re­treat master was F.YTHER FREDERICK COU­PAL, CiL , and tlic Retreat was all that could be desired. Saturday morning Mass was celebrated by the Club's most honored member, BISHOP BERNARD J. TOPEL, '38. FRANK HAGEN­BARTH, '27, was the committee cliairman, and attending the Retreat, besides himself, were: DR. CURR.A.N- HIGGINS, '49; BOB -MERZ, '47; RAY -MURPHY, '59; BOB ROTCHFORD, '49; DICK ST. JOH.V, '36; BERXIE S.MYTH, '55; FR.ANK ZrVPPONE, '29; and JOE WALSH, '14. At the close of the Retreat a meeting of those attending was held and all agreed to return at about the same time next year, bringing with them at least as many more rclreatants. 
BERNIE SMYTH, '55, was in charge of arrange­ments for Universal Communion Sunday on De­cember 4th. Mass was at Our Lady of Lourdes Cathedral, with breakfast at the Ridpath Hotel. FATHER THOMAS McNIFF %vas the scheduled guest speaker and the affair promised to be most interesting and worthwhile. 
Plans are abo undenvay for a Mid-Wnter Party to be held about February 1st. This wUl be for members and wives and will take the form of a potluck supper in the tap room of the Rainier Brewer>-. 
The annual Holiday Parly svill be given at the attractive home of J.VMES H. LYNCH, '40, on or about December 28th. Guests will be students home for the holidav-s. Tlierc are presently six bov-s from Spokane at the University. 
DR. ROBERT L. ROTCHFORD, father of DR. JA.MES P. ROTCHFORD, '48, and ot ROBERT L. ROTCHFORD, '49, died September 30, 1960. 
Terre Haute 
TIic annual ^(ass and Corporate Communion was held on Dec. 11. Members, sons and guests attended -Mass celebrated by FR. TOXY UTBER, CS.C, at Sacred Heart Churcli, followed by a sumptuous re­past at the Tcrrc Haute House and a program ar­ranged by Father \Veber. MYRON BUSBY and ilSt SULLI\''AX were co-chairmen. Busby and JOHN O'LEARY had suffered heart attacks and rate con­tinued prayers. BOB BURTON and CHARLES McCAULEY are welcomed as ne\v members of the Club. BERNIE BURDICK is chairman of a pre-Lenten stag to be held In February. 
Tri-Cities 
In addition to the Father-Son Luncheon on De­cember 24, the Quad City area had a Notre Dame Communion Breakfast on December 11. We were fortunate in having BISHOP HAYES from the Davenport Diocese as our guest speaker. Details and pictures will follow. 
—WILLIA-M J. LAFFAN, Prcs. 

Washington 
The annual Xotre Dame Communion Breakfast for men was held on Dec. 11 with a Mass and break­fast at Holy Cross College. In following the sug­gested theme of the Ecumenical Council, "Washing­ton was especially fortunate in haWng an expert on the subject as a speaker In the person of REV. CHARLES J. CORCORAN, CS.C, professor of dogmatic theology* at Holy Cross, recently returned from Rome as a consultant to the Councirs com­mission for Religious. Father Corcoran told the group that, although preparations were proceeding "efficiently and quietly," much work remains to be done and the Council probably will not begin until 1962. He told of a special secretariat whose function will be to maintain liaison with those outside the Church and urged Catholics to heed the plea of POPE JOHN XXIH and pray for the return of Christian tinit^'. 
Western Washington 
TED CUMMINGS was chairman of a schoIanhq> drive that culminated In a drawing on November 18 for an all-expense trip to the N.D.-Southem Cali­fornia game in Los Angeles on December 26. The proceeds were added to the $500 derived from a similar drive in 1959. 
Year End, 1960 33 

JOHN A. VAINISI, *50, business manager and cliicf talent scout for the Green Bay Packers died 
November 27 in Green Bay. He is surxivcd by his %vife. ROBERT G. WEST, '50, of East Lansing, Mich., was killed In an automobile accident in Mexico 
GLASSES 
City, Mexico, June 29, according to information 
Engagements 
Miss Joan -M. Frcv and WILLIAM K. Mc-GOAVAN, *57. Miss Lucrctia Kulpanou'skt and EUGENE SL.\BY, '59. Miss Carol Ann Reed and RICHARD CLARK BENKENDORF, 'GO. Miss Jeanne Elizabeth McLaughlin and WIL­LIAM K. McCORMiCK, *60. Miss Shcrrol Joan Ewalt and MICHAEL FR^VX­CIS SHEA, ^60. 
Marriages 
Miss Joan Clare Rach and JAMES H. HAWES, JR., "52. IV-rrASvillc, Pa., September 10­
Miss Roxanne Margaret Scliwope and CHRIS­TOPHER T. FL^'NN, '55, St. Paul, Minn., August 6. 
Miss Patricia Kellchcr and PETER J. SUTHER­LAND, '55, Long Beadi, Calif., October 8. Miss Carolvn Anne Feleppa and ALBERT M. PARILLO, '5G, Short Hills, N.J., October 22. Miss Rosemary Clare Harle and PAUL JULIUS SCHIERL, '57, Chicago, III., November 24. Miss Hannah .-\gnL-s Grasberger and MARK STOREN, JR., -57, Lynchburg, Va., November 26. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE A. UHL, M2, a son, Timolhv Gerard, November 2. Mr. and Mrs. J.\.MES BYRNE, '43, a daughter, Marv- Elizabeth. N«>''cmber 27. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT W. SNEE, '45, a son, James Edmund, October 22. Mr. and Mrs. FR.-\NK E. McBRIDE, JR., '50, a son, October 10. Dr. and Mrs. J.\MES E. WACK, '50, a son, October IG. .Mr. and Mr?. ROBERT J. XICKODEM, '51, a daughter, Mo\-a Kathleen, October 28. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. CONWAY, '53, a son. William Anthonx*, November 12. Mr. and Mrs. MICILVEL A. DcPADRO, JR., '55. a son. JcfTrcv, October 14. Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN KLEME.Vr, ^55, a son, Carlton Brian. November 21. Mr. and Mrs. PHIL KR.\MER, '56, a son, Paul Anthonv. October 31. Mr. and Mr^, NORMxVN E. KRxVUSS, '57, a son, Paul Albert, October 25. 
Sympathy 
D. CHET GR.-VNT, •'21, on tlie death of his mother, November 4, 1960. WILLIAM F. SHEEHx\X, '24. on the death of his mother, October 17, 1960. 
.MICH^\EL J., '25, ALBERT G., '27, and JOSEPH L. ADRLVN, '39, on the death of their mother, October 8, 1960. 
WALTER DICKERSON, '27, on tJie death of his wife, Julv 3. 1959. ALBERT F., JR., '28, and ELMER GURY, '35, on the death of their father, October 31, 1960. 
H. D. HINTON, '30, on the death of his mother, October 27, 1960. P.\UL A., '35, and FRANCIS E. FERGUS, '40, 
on tile death of their mother, November 28, 1960. WILBUR A., '40, ELMER J., '41, and GER/VLD 
A. K.-\MM, '44, on the death of their father, No­vember I. 1960. RICH.-\RD McHUGH, '42, on the death of his motlier, Marcli 20, 1960, JAMES L. KELLY, JR., *43, on the death of his father, October 21, I960. 
DR. JAMES P.. '48, and ROBERT L. ROTCH­FORD, '49. on the deatli of their fatlier, Septem­ber 30, 1960. 
JAMES W, FRICK, '51, on the death of his father, October 31, 1960. CHARLES F. SPICV, '54, on the death of his fatlier. 
34 Year End, I960 
RUSSELL J. GOVERNALE, '55, on the death of his mother, November 10, I960. NORMAN E. KR^VUSS, '57, on Uic death of his father, .May 24. 1960. ROBERT J. STEVENSON, '57, on the death of his fatlier, November 7, 1960. JOSEPH J. JACHMi\N, '58, on the death of his father. 
Deaths 
FR.\NCIS H. GETCHELL, '96, died in Chicago, 
Illinois, according to information received in the 
Alumni OfHce. 
JOHN V. WALSH, '00, of Denver, Colorado, 
died November 8, according to ivord received in 
the Alunmi Office. He is sur\-ived by his wife. 
EUGE.VIO lUW'NERI, '04, of Hav-ana, Cuba, 
died in August according to information received 
from his wife. Xu his 56 years as an architect, his 
accomplishments include the Capitol Building of 
Havana. His survivors also include three daughters. 
GEORGE J. -MASSEY, '14, died in Veterans' 
Hospital in Chicago, 111., July 22. He is sur\-ived 
by two sisters. 
RALPH E. SJOBERG, '21, died in Chicago, Illinois November 10, according to word received from his wife. Also surviving is his son. 

DR. HENRY S. ATKINSON, '22, of Green Bay, Wise, died October 30 according to information received in the Alumnt Office. Sur^'ivors include his wife, two sons, and two sisters. 
ALVIN F. HxVNS, '28. died May 13, in Chicago, Illinois, according to word received in the Alumni OHice. He was with tlic Standard Oil Company of Indiana at the time of his death. Ifc is sur­vived by his wife. 
REV. JOHN A. MOLTER, C.S.C., '29, a mem­ber of the Portland University faculty, died October 
24. Rev. Molter was ordained on June 24, 1933, received Iiis master's degree in biolog\- in 1936 from tile Catholic University, and his doctorate in 1943 from the University of Pennsylvania. Sur­viving arc a brother and three sisters. 
J.V.MES J. GRIFFIN, '31, of Oak Lawn, Illinois, died October 23. At the time of his death, Mr. Griflin was principal of Cregicr Vocational High School. He also was vice-president of the Chicago Teaclicrs Union, former safety co-ordinator for the Chicago Board of Education, and a member of the Catholic Inter-racial Council. Sur>"ivors include his wife, three sons, five daughters, and three * brothers. 
ST.VNLEY C. OBELENUS, '32, died November 9, in Chicago, Illinois. He was presently employed in the Bureau of Sewers, City of Chicago. He is 5ur\ived by his mother. 
AVILLIAM J. VAN ROOY, '32, prominent busi­nessman in the tea and coffee business, died Octo­ber 25, in Rocky River, Ohio, following two heart attacks. Mr. Van Rooy was president of William 
J. Van Rooy & Son tea and coffee brokerage busi­ness. He was a former president of the Notre Dame Club of C!e\-eland. Surxiving him arc his wife, two sons, a daughter, his motlier, a grandcliild, and two sisters. 
EDMOND L. .MORIARTY, '33. of Ann AAor, Micliigan, died November 10, according to word received in tJie Alumni Office. 
SISTER AL ISABEL (McaVFFREY), RSM, '35, died in St. Catherine's Hospital, Omalia, Nebraska, September 14 after a brief illness. Sic is survived by a sister. 
J. ALVIN DREILLVG, '38, died in Virginia, ^finnesota, according to information received in the .MumnI Office. He is survived by his wife. 
LOYD F. WORLEY, '39, former Tulsa oilman, died of a heart attack. October 9, in Scottsdalc, Arizona. He was a president of the Notre Dame Club of Tulsa and once was presented the Notre Dame Man of tlie Year au*ard. Survivors Include his w^fe, two daughters, and his parents. 
JOSEPH T. NORRIS, '43, of Malvcme, New York, died in October following an operation, ac­cording to information received in the Alumni OfHce. He is survived by his wife. 
received from his mother. At the time of his death he was employed as a researcli diemist at MicIiigan State University. Sur\'ivors include his parents, lib wife, and two ciiildren. g^ 
JOHN J. B.VTTERSBY, of Corona, Ne^v York^ died September 19 in a plane accident. He attended here from 1952 to 1954. He is sur\ivcd by his mother. 
PROFESSOR HE.VRY B. FRONING, of South Bend, Ind., died October 18. He was formerly tlie head of the Chemistry Department and dean emeritus of the College of Science at Xotrc Dame. He is survived bv his wife. 
WILLLVM D. ROCKNE, of South Bend, Ind., died November 8. according to information received by the Alumni Office. He was the eldest son of the late Knute Rockne. Mr. Rockne is sur\'i*ed bj ^ a sister and two brothers. " 
50-Year Club 

We have the sad but neces5ar>' duty of request­ing the Semiceutcnarians' prayers for the following members and (ricnds who have left the ranks lor the eternal roll call in recent months: M/\X ADLER, '92; FR.\NCIS OETCHELL, '96; JOHN 
V. AN'ALSH, '00; EDWIN FREDELL, '03; PA­TRICK .MacDONOUGH, '03; EUGE.\IO R^VY-NERl, 'frt; FATHER TIMOTHY MURPHY, C.S.C., '05; JOHN WILL.M.\X, '06; and SID CRESSY, 'W i Rcquiescant in pace. ^ 
1911 
i Fred L, Steers 
19 S. LaSalie St. 
Chicago 3, Illinois 

REUNION RIME Quite a few Jubileers have been torn, it appears, From their golden companions a full 50 J years. 
So let's gather for fun in the suniniertidie { sun : June 9-10-11 in Sweet Si.xty-Onc! ^ • 
From the Alumni Office: ^ 
In cvcr>' dark cloud there's a silver lining. Tlie • recent very incomplete listing of "Notre Dame Men of Science" brought the following delightful note. from DR. GUILLERMO PATTERSON, JR., of the: Acadcmia Nacional de Cicncias de Panama in Pan-,­ama City: "I am under the impression that not all;.. Notre Dame men of science are listed at the end off the article. r 
"It liappens that 1 am listed in American Men of' Science, whence the list is supposed to be extracted. I I was the first man to get a Ph.D. at Notre Dame, '' in 1912. I taught Chemistry- at the University and ; read part of my thesis at the .American ChcmicA Society. I would greatly appreciate that you have Tr talk with FATHER JOSEPH .MAGUIRE about me. 
"You will find me listed also in: Who's Who in America (the AVest); International AVho's Who; ; Chemical Who's Who; Who's Who tn Latin fVmer-'­ica; Who's Who is Venezuela, Panama, Ecuador & Colombia; Who's Who in Panama; Biographical En-c\-cIopcdia of the World; Tlie American Bar; Tlie National Cyclopedia of /Vmerican Biograpliy, etc. Please look mc up. (AVc did, and \vc apologize.) 
*'I am abo honorarv* president and founder witJL PROF. DUBOIS of the Panama and Canal Zoi0 Notre Dame Club; life fellow of the Royal Society; honorary fello^v of the American Assn. for the Ad­\-anccmcnt of Science; honorary director of the Instituto /Vntimalarico di Roma; corresponding mem­ber of the International Institute of Arts and Let-i tcrs of Germany; president of the Panama Academy J of Sciences, etc" t 
Tliank you. Doctor. AVe hope you're here ne.\t f June to uphold the honor of the Class of 'II. A ' 
I 
1912 
B. J. "Ben" Kaiser 604 East Tenth St. Benvick, Pa. 

From the Alumni Oflicc: 
A son of \VALTER DUXa\X, Rc%-. Eduard J. Duncan of the Diocese of Peoria, is exerting a ^trong Catholic influence with the Newman Club at 
^i c University of Illinois, Cliampaign. 
1913 
Paul R. Byrne 
360 ^Vamer Ave. 
Syracuse 5, N. Y. 

Here is a little note on our classmate HARRY J. KIRK of Washington, D.C.: On his scvcnty-firsi birthday, Sept. 22, Harry welcomed the arrival of 
^lis thirty-fifth grandchild, Thomas Grcgor>' Noel, 
Vo m that day. Tliis makes a total of 22 grandsons and 13 granddaughters, the children of Harry's four married daughters, ^^^. and Mrs. Kirk are the parents of three other cliildrcn, all religious, two being Discalccd Carmelite nuns, and the only son a Benedictine priest. Harr>* lives at 1404 Otis St., N.E., Washington 17, 
1914 
Walter Clements 623 Park Avenue 

^ South Bend, Indiana 
From the xMumni OfHce: 
Tlie death of BILL ROCKNE, eldest son of an immortal classmate, struck the Class like the pass­ing of one of its own—especially since the definitive biography by FR.VNCIS WALL.\CE, *23, entitled simply KNUTE ROCKNE, Iiad so recently re­freshed so many memories of the beloved "Swede" of Sorin Hall. Heartfelt sympathy to Rock's re­maining children, Jack, Jeanne, and Knute, Jr. 
1915 
James £. Sanford 1429 W.FarragutAv. V\^ Chicago 40, Iliinois 

From the Alumni Oflice: 
.-\s anticipated in a Class messaqe at his Lactarc ^Icdal presentation In June, GEORGE SHUSTER Vnasn't let any grass grow under liis feet since his 
retircinciit xs president of Hunter College. Reap­pointed as .American representative to the United Nations Educational. Scientific and Cultural Or­ganization in Paris, he was re-elected to the UNESCO executive board on Nov. 18. 
1916 
'm Grover F. Miller tj 612 'Wisconsin Ave. Racine, Wisconsin 

REUNION RIME Anniversary nears, and for 45 years We've been parted from friends who shared 
• laughter and tears. Let US toast every one with a Notre Dame 
bun June 9-10-11 in Sweet SL\ty-One! 
From the Alumni OfEce: 
Congratulations to WILLLVXI BR^VDBURY on ^h brother Stanley's ('23) election to a sixth term 9 U Crawford County, III., States Attorney. 
TROPHY FOR OUTSTANDING PLAY­ER on each team is a new wrinkle of the N.D.-Northwestem football series jointly sponsored by Chicago alumni of the two schools. Posing for WBBM-TV arc George Menard (right), '34, Chicago Club presi­dent, and Ray Eians, Northwestern alumni president. 
Question of the month is whether Fidel is going to let JOSE and BR,\OLIO MUNECAS out of Cuba for the 45th Reunion next June 9. Through a typographical slip, the death of FATHER PAT HAGGERTY last spring went unrecorded until No­vember. 
1917 
Edward J. McOsker R.R. 2, Bo.v 1, So. State St. Rd. Elgin, Illinois 

From tlic Alumni Oflice: 
FATHER .MIKE .MUL&MRE, still ver>- hardy in the Conununity Infirniar>% has had ample oppor­tunity to visit with his sister, SISTER MIRIAM GERTRUDE, C.S.C., teaching in the South Bend schools. 
Please pray for the repose of the soul of JERO.ME .MILLER, who died last summer. 
1918 
Charles W. Call 225 Palerson Ave. Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey 

From the Alumni Office: P.\UL BYRNE, retired University librarian and secretary of the Class of '13, reports having got together with another former N.D. administrator, BOB Mcr\ULIFFE, con\'aIcscing from recent illness at his brother's home In Syracuse, N*Y. **\Vc took a wonderful trip up into the Adirondacks just to enjoy the colors," Paul says. We hope Bob recovers quickly and tliat both revisit the campus they ser\'ed so Well. 
1919 
Theo. C Rademaker Peru Foundry Co. Fern, Indiana 

From the Alumni Oflice: Mtcr 40 years on the campus PAUL FENLON could add mucli to the little we've had to say about the old library and other glories—if only his stu­dents gave him a little more time. 
1920 
James H. Ryan 170 Maybrook Rd. Rochester 18, N. Y. 

From the Alumni OfHce: 
TOM BE/\CO.\f is one of the Chicagoans who had much to do with the Cfiicago Scholarship Foun­dation spotlighted in tliis issue. 
Your prayers would be appreciated by thr be­
reaved families of departed classmates OCTAVIANO 
L.\RR.\20L0 and EDWARD .McMAHON. 
1921 
Dan W. Duffy 
1101 Superior BIdg. 
Cleveland 14, Ohio 
REUNION RIME Twenty-sixers, three cheers for those gay 
ca^•aliers We haven't laid eyes on for 35 years! May we meet every one ere the set of the 
sun 
On June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One! 
From the Alumni Office: 
AVith JAKE KLIXE getting ready for another season on the diamond, a baseball game seenis al­most a sure thing as part of the reunion program— with the basepatlis about 20 feet shorter, of course. Cuba's R<\F ESCRIBiXNO (who's probably quite a fan of "cl bcisbol") is the only classmate who might plead diplomatic difficulty in making the 40-year celebration. 
Add the name of R,\LPH SJOBERG to the toll of 'Tiemey, Conrad. Afsgr. Shannon, etc., who will gather no more—and pray for tlicm all. 
1922 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester 25, N. Y. 

We decplv regret the loss of another fine class­
mate—MARK STOREN, SR., of Michigan City, 
Indiana, who passed from this life on July 22. To 
Mark Storcn, Jr., '57, and others of the family, 
we extend our sympathy. Mark was a very loj-al 
and co-operative classmate who never failed to 
show at our class reunions. We must remember him 
in our prayers. 
Three of our classmates are still connected with the game of football after all of the years that have passed since we left the campus. BUCK SHAW, head coach of the Professional Philadelphia Eagles, expects to close out a very colorful and successful career of coaching college and professional teams at the end of the current season. Buck had fine teams at Santa Clara University. iUso, his professional San Francisco '49crs and Philadelphia Eagles have alu-ays displayed an interesting brand of football. DR. EDDIE ^VNDERSO-V, head coach at Holy Cross College, has more seniority than any other football coach among the major college teams. Dr. Eddie had prior service at the University of Iowa, where he coached one of the all-time great Iowa teams. Eddie also turned in a fine coaching per­formance for the College Ml Stars in one of their fe^v victories over the professionals. DR. HENRY ATKINS of Green Bay, ^Visconsin, has been doctor and medical consultant for the Green Bay Packers Professional team almost since the inception of that organization. 
JOHN PAUL CULLEN of Wamv^tosa, ^Vis­consin, who was one of the original advocates of a new campus library building, is delighted with the plans and sketch of the proposed new building re­cently released to the public press. 
Year End, 1960 35 
FATHER GEORGE FISCHER, C^.C, has re­
turned home from his Wsit to European cliurclics 
and shrines as spiritual director for the Holy Cross 
Mission Pilgrimage to Europe's holy places and to 
the 37th International Eucharistic Congress in 
Municli. Wc arc most grateful to Father George for 
remembering, as he promised to do, the liWng and 
deceased members of our class at his stops at the 
many shrines and cliurclics visited by the Pil­
grimage. 
The DAN' YOUXGS could not get under way 
early enough to accompany Father Fisclicr and 
party. They sailed later aboard the S.S. Rotterdam 
of the Holland America Line, last were reported 
September 3 at Garmiscli Partcnlcirchcn. Germany, 
and expected to see the Passion Play at Oberani­
mergau the next day. 
Our svmpathy to the widow and sons of DR. 
HENRY ATKINSON', who died Nov. 30. 
1923 
Louis V. Bniggncr 
2165 Riverside Dr. 
South Bend, Indiana 
Unknoivn to the '23 secretariat until recent weeks, ROBERT A. PECK, EJM. '23, died in Washington, D.C., on July 13. Strangely, a telegram bearing the news of his death was received by relatives in his home town of Colorado Springs, Colo., only a fc\^' hours after the death of his brother, James A. Peck, in the mountain city. The brothers were nephc%vs of tlie late Jimmy Bums of Cripple Creek mining fame. Botli were bom in Colorado Springs and Robert, our Classmate and younger of tlie two, had left Colorado Springs in 1938 and in re­cent years had made his headquarters in Washing­ton, D.C. He worked earlier on construction of a road through ^fc-\ico and Central America and on road projects in Ycllm^-slonc National Park. News­paper clippings from Colorado Springs gave no in­formation on Robert's surx'ivors, if any. Mail from this oflice to Bob's last knou-n address was never returned unclaimed, but also remained unanswered. His age was listed at 59 years, and tliat of his brother as 65. 
Something of the spirit of a Class reunion was achieved at Bruggner's Book Store in Soutit Bend on October I, the morning of the Purdue Pigskin Punishment. The occasion was an autograph p.vty held for and by FRANCIS WALLACE, whose new biography of Knute Rockne was launched the day before. Frank spent the morning writing Ins signa­ture and encomia on llic flyleaf of the many books sold that morning and had little time to join in the reunion attended in the coffee sector of the store. .Attending were FR.\NK DORIOT, who auto­graplicd a fc^v books on his own (since he co-au­thored a few pages in tlie book wiih Wallace), LAA\*RE-\CE STR.ABLE and wife, DANIEL L^'NCH and wife and son. ^^URRAY PO\\*ERS, 
W. ED SHE.\, ED FLE.MING, LOUIS DeSMET, JACK NORTON and, of course, Wallace and LOUIS BRUGGNER. From other N.D. Classes wc heard from HUNK .ANDERSON, ABE ZOSS and PAUL PADE.\'. JOE HENNEBERRY pulled the boner of the day when he breezed past the South Bend interchange on the Indiana toll road so fast tliat lie was In Elkhart before he could turn around. However wc were able to get in a nice visit in AVal­lace's room at Morris Inn after the g^me, at wliicli Frank's son JOH.V WALLf\CE and wife, Mrs. Henncbcrr>", JACK ELDER and wife and daughters and the Bruggners were also present. 
From the Alumni Office: Submitted back in the summer, LOUIS BRUGG-NER's saga of the stmggic between JOE NYIKOS (victor) and JOH.X NIE.MIEC (\-anquished) for judge of the Circuit Court in St. Joe County's elec­tions, finally appears in this issue. Down in Robin­son (Crawford County). Illinois, States Attornc>- J. STANLEY BRADBURY, runm'ng on the Demo­cratic ticket, was retained by a substantial margin over his Republican opponent. Stan has served five terms of four years eacli. Tlic slot macliine inter­ests were reportedly after his scalp. 
1924 
James R. Meehan 301 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Ind. 
From tlic Alumni Ollicc; 
Tlic Class' and—nhh tlic loss ot CARDINAL O'HARA — Xotre Dame's only rcmainins Arch­
36 Year End, 1960 
DANIEL H. YOUNG, '22 A Lot of Bridges (Etc) Over the Water 
Construction whiz Dan Young has been in the "Spotlight" before, but (to turn a well-worn phrase) a lot of bridges have gone over the water since then. This year the vicc-prcsident-director-general manager of poley Bros., Inc., \vas im-ited with Mrs. Young on the first Braniff 707 jet flight to South ."America to meet President Frondizi of -Argentina, President Kubetschck of Brazil, other presidents and diplomats at embassies in Panama, Peru, etc. He also wound up a railroad from Labrador to an iron mine in Quebec. 
Locating in Ardmore, Pa., in recent years, Dan was the N.D. Man of the Year when the honor was originated in 1946 by the 
N.D. Club of Philadelphia, which Club also originated N.D. Night. He has circled the globe on Foley's construction projects; was partner in constructing the San Gabriel and Shasta Dams in California; drove a tunnel under New York's Hudson River, built the George Washington Bridge and protective piers for the Holland Tunnel as well as piers, ferr\- racks and slips in New York Harbor; built bridges and eliminated railroad grade crossings across the U.S.; introduced mod­em open-pit mining methods in India at the request of the Indian government; built air bases in the Caribbean and ports on the Persian Gulf during W.W. II, receiving a 
U.S. Na\y citation for na\-al base develop­ment. More recently he completed the world's largest iron ore benefication plant, the sprawling Erie Taconite project in Northern Minnesota, the Youngs' native state (a Mass of Thanksgiving on New Years Day, 1959, commemorated three years without a fatal accident on the §300 million project); finished a railroad through the Brazilian jungles to a manganese mine, power plants and piers in Chile and Peru, a §120 million copper plant in the .Andes. 
Dan and Mrs. Young have a son, t^vo daughters and four grandchildren at last count. Dan is a pillar of Holy Name and the Fourth Degree K. of C. 
bishop, MOST REV. LAWRENCE GR,\XER, C.S.C., of Dacca. East Pakistan, may find time to visit his friends .in the States some day after the ' Ecumenical Council, now that he's got a new aux­iliar>- in BISHOP GANGULY, '49. 
1925 
John P- Hurley 2085 Brookdalc RoacjA Toledo 6, Ohio ^ 
On Saturday, October 15th our class held its tenth annual football cocktail party. It occurred to mc on my way home that there was very little dis­cussion of tlic game itself. 1 guess it was more pleasant to talk about "the good old da>-s." Tliere were at least ten other class cocktail parties. . . . \\'c have a vcr>* good idea for next year but wc will not mention it here just in case other classes might do the same thing. It was wonderful seeing the fellows and their wives. ^ 
This week end Mrs. Hurlcv and I visited oi ^ daughter and her husband MIKE UNDERWOOD, *58, in Davenport, Iowa. Wc all stopped in to sec HANK WURZER, belter known since Labor Day as "STICKS" WUR2ER. Hank brflkc his ankle and has been on crutches ever since but he hopes to get rid of them in a few weeks. He really looks good despite "the break." I did learn that the MASS FUND could stand a bit of bolstering, so lets Join the 1925 MASS FUND I.NVESTMENT CLUB. This one really pays big dividends. Some of you fellows haven't come through since we started it, so let's send enough to take care of a High Mass for your­self and a classmate who has passed on . . . r^ . member it's later than you think. V 
Now to more clieerful subjects: JOHN R. MORAN . . . for instance. JOHN is "top brass'* in Continental Oil and Iiis address is Continental Oil BIdg., Denver, Colo. Listed under "occupation At­torney . . . also txvpayer (this is almost a full time job) tlircc cliildren (no cliangc in the last 21 years) but the list ot grandchildren is growing . . . present count sl\. one on way." He has seen PAUL Rx\HE now of Denver but no others since last re-. union in '55. *'Wherc arc they—they don't come -. West any more.*' (John modestly adds) "ify life has ? not been very interesting up to now. Work, cat, j sleep & pay taxes. Vote Republican sometime^. Gripe about conditions, politics and weather. Anr; (unofficial) adviser to Congress, Tlie United Nations, I. the President, but they never act on my suggestions. { Social Security may be important in a few years. ' Right now I am looking fon\-ard to seeing you and* other *25ers at the reunion.*' Tlianks for a word S about yourself and I am sorr^' you had to cliangc l your plans for the reunion the last minute. Your I old pal Judge JOHN KILKENNY wiis looking fori you to say nothing about JOHN TR^VYNOR, GIL { SCH/\EFFER and FATHER JOHN LYNCH. Better I fly out for next years football party .. . it will be ;.-, worth Avhilc. ^ 
One of the unsung heroes of our class is PAUL ^ DUFAUD, 1911 East Second St., Tucson, ArizonaTt Paul has been on the sidelines from polio-neuritis r since the winter of '37-'38, but with the aid of his;' wonderful wife and daughter and son, Paul is win-| ning the battle for his health and happiness. Botlir' of his cliildren won scholarships for their colleger years. Paul writes, "My life has been little things; s'^ family, neighbors, our parish, mostly local. I h haven't travelled nor accomplished ver>* much. Yct|^: I live on while more able and more accomplished^' classmates die and add to the growing list of those V to be remembered in daily rosaries. The more re-i cent deaths of EUSTACE CULLIN.VN and MIL W ON LE.\CH were special shocks to me. PAU™ HOEFFLER, MILT LE.\CH &. DUKE CL.\NCY ; used to write mc cheerful and inspiring letters when [ I was so sick. Also included ^\-as JERRY HOL-% I^\ND, who had made his home in Boise, Idaho, \ with his wife and youngsters. Of tliese four main : 'cheer leaders' of mine only PAUL HOEFFLER re-1 mains and, ironically, my'self. 
**TIicrc are a few more tlian forty 'ex' and grad N.D.ers here in Tucson. About twenty are ex-TBs, arthritics, asthmatics, etc. Most others are here bc ^ cause of sickness of wives or cliildren. Only four at ^ natives. Some have been here a long time. TED WITZ, '26, came here from Akron in '26 with TB . . . regained his health and is now in business Iicrc. \TNCE HENGESBACK, '25 or '26, came here i and became wclli is doing flnc in the business he / got into and is no\%* V.P. in Sales for Benjamin r Moore Paint Co. t 
"Tomorrow, Alay 14th is our 30th wedding an-t niversar>-. The Bishop is offering 7:15 Mass for i ^ 
$^ 
f: 
1^ 

in the morning. What changes thru the years. What beautiful memories. What a blessed and loving wife! 1 have so much for which to be graleful. God bless you and yours, John. You have done an cctrcmcly commendable job tlirough the years. Tiiru your letters lime has slowed, wc arc not so old and 1925 doesn't seem 35 years ago. Tliank you so much for so long. Sincerely, Paul." Thank you Paul and thanks for the rosaries you have said for your class­mates linng and dead because I am sure by now 
,Aou have "a direct line" to Our Lady. Fellows, Tct's drop Paul a line of appreciation to a great guy who is sitting on the sidelines praying for all of us. 
1926 
Rudy Gocpfrich 1109 N. Cleveland Avenue South Bend 28, Ind. 
REUNION RIME 

Well, gentlemen, here's to the classmates 
and peers 

Who'll return from an absence of 40 full 
years. 

From the '21-gun, a salute (that's a pun?) 
9Co June 9-10-11 in Sweet SLxty-One! 
JOHN RYAN, our class president, advises that he had luncli with ED HARGAN in Chicago re­cently. Ed ^vas there for several weeks, from the Washington oflicc of the Small Business Adminis­tration xvorking on the subject of Small Business Investments. Ed came to scliool from New Jersey, was previously a banker in Dallas and now lives in Washington. 
A recent issue of the ALUMNUS stated that mail to J. VINCENT SOISSON had been returned jmclaimed. A letter from Vincc cleared up the 
'.fatter. He is with the West Peiin Power Company in Washington, Pa. and lives there at 680 Elni­liurst Drive. Vince lias a son who is a sophomore at Notre Dame; 1 expected to sec both oE tljcm at the Pitt game. 
I heard ftwm LESTER CL.\RKE recently. He came to Notre Dame from New York City and graduated in chemical engineering. He is now chief, AVater Supply Section, Bureau of Sanit3r>' Engineering, Oklalioma State Health Department, Oklalionia City, Okla. Les %«'as married in 1!M3; they have no children. He was in the U.S. Air Force from 1943 to 1W6. 
, ^ In September I had an enjoyable day of golf 
•~ilh FR/\NK DEITLE at the Olympia Fields Coun­try Club in Chicago. Needless to say, Frank beat me. 
Congratulations and best wishes to Dcs Moines banker HAROLD KLEIN, competing for a spot on the Alumni Board of Directors. 
t
From the /Uumni Oflicc: In one of thoso weird coincidences. West Penn Power Co. has just informed the oflicc that J. VINCENT SOISSON, whom RUDY GOEPFRICH just reclaimed, will become director of marketing i January 1. Tliis will probably Involve a move to le home office in Grcensburg, Pa., for Vincc, who has served West Penn since graduation, so you'd better write to the Washington address fast. Since starting as an engineer in Springdale he has had managerial posts in Scottdale, ConnellsviUc, Wash­ington (twice), Charleroi, and Grcensburg (as as­sistant vccp)—a hard man to keep up with! 
1927 

^ Clarence J. Ruddy 
• 32 S. River Street Aurora, Illinois 
From the fUumni Office: Memorials lo JOE BOLxVND continued iluring the recent football season from those who said ihcy missed him more witii every Irish game—almost as ^ they figured Joe would not Iiavc let the score be 
JOHN P. CHAPLA, '23 In Cleveland, a Broker Vfho Goes for Broke 
The Cleveland Club of Notre Dame, at the annual Rockne Communion Breakfast, presented to John Chapla the 1960 a%vard as the Cleveland Notre Dame Man of the Year, in recognition of his outstanding con­tributions and scrx-ices to the Cleveland Club throughout the past four decades. In recent years his efforts in organizing and running the annual golf outing have made this affair one of the outstanding events of any year. 
A graduate of the College of Commerce, John is now the manager of the Bond Department of Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis. Besides his extensive duties as man­ager, he finds time to ser\'c as a director of the State Savings and Loan Association, Cleveland Electrical Equipment Company, and the 1105 Chester Corporation of Cleveland, Ohio. He also seri-es as an advisory member of the Central Bank of Lorain, Ohio, and as a member of the Lorain Port Commission. He is past gov­ernor of the Northern Ohio Investment Bankers .Association. 
A resident of Lorain, Ohio, throughout most of his life, John is a prominent mem­ber of the Elyria Country Club and the Cleveland Athletic Club. He is married to the former Katherinc O'Toole of Lorain, Ohio. His daughter, thirteen-year-old Susan, matriculated at St. Mary's .'\cademy in South Bend in the fall. 
John recently completed an extensive trip through Europe which had as its high­light a visit to Lourdes and an audience with the Pope. 
1928 
Louis F* Buckley 68-10 108th Street Forest HiUs 75, N-Y. 

The members of the Class of '28 lost another close friend in the death of Cardinal D'Hara. You will remember the letter of thanks \%*rittea by hun in longhand and reproduced in our Class News­letter a year ago thanking me for my note of con­gratulations in which I advised him that the mem­bers of the Class of *28 wJU always be grateful for having had him as our spiritual advisor as students, at Notre Dame. I also regretted reading of the death of our old English professor. Father Kemdt Hcaly, C.S.C. Please remember these men in your prayers. 
ART GLEASON suffered a serious coronary with angina and will be laid up for some time. Resting will be a change for Art, as he has missed only one day in the last fifteen years at B. F. Goodrich Rubber Company in Akron, Ohio, where he is staff superintendent. Art*s plans to attend our Class cocktail party following the Northwestern game were clianged due to his illness. His daughter is a guidance counselor at the E^-anston High School in Illinois. Drop Art a note at 4160 Darnnv Road, Stow, Ohio. 
JLM ALLAN reports that he saw NEIL AiflOT at the California game and the following classmates at the Purdu.. game: JOHN ROBINSON, PAT CAN*NX JOE HILGER, ED McKEOWN and W, H. .MURPHY. Jim also saw LARRY O'CON­NOR. *30, and BOB VOGELWEDE, '29, at the Purdue game. 
I had to go so far as to misspell JOE BRAN­NON*s name in this column in the September Alumnus in order to get a rise out of him. He re­sponded in his usual top form from Phoenix, Ari­zona, where he is the manager of Sears, Repack & Company, as follo^vs: "If you are going to give me publicity, why can't you spell my name correctly? You lived with me for a year. You have visited my home, I have nursed you through hangovers, I was the best man at your wedding, and still you spell my name incorrectly. Just how intimate must I be with you before you accord me the courtesy of ac­curate spelling? 
"Seriously, I think, you are undoubtedly the finest Secretary which any class ever had, and certainly you do include more data than any other corre­spondent. Of course, I don't recognize one third of the names and seriously doubt if they were class­mates of mine. Worse still I doubt if two thirds of your readers would recognize my name even if you spelled it correctly. Sic transit gloria mundi." 
Since my job as Regional Director of the U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics requires considerable travel and speaking in the Middle-Atlantic states, I manage to pick up some news on classmates. Inci­dentally, I have given over forty talks thus far this year in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and >far>'land. At a State Chamber of Commerce meet­ing in Harrisburg, Pa., last week I obtained a re­port on PHIL CENEDELLA. Phil has his own business in Uniontown, Pa., where he manufactures wooden pallets. He has eight children, according to the report received by me. I was also Informed by the new President of the PennsyU'ania Chamber of Commerce of the outstanding job being done by FATHER GEORGE BENGALU, OS.C, as Presi­dent of Kings College, WIlkes-Barre, Pa., and as a leader In the community. I hired two fine boys from Kings College graduating class this year. 
GENE FARRELL, Editor of the Jersey Journal since 1951, was recently appointed Vice Chairman of the Ne%v Jersey Public Market Corporation. This group will develop a food distribution center -in New Jersey. ANDY POWERS Is with Lowenbrau and covers the area from Melbourne to Key West. Andy and his wife live in Boynton Beach, Florida. 
GEORGE KELLY Is fast becoming almost as prolific a writer as JOE BREIG. George had an article in the September 24th issue of AMERICA on "The Time for Keeping On Our Shirts." I had an article on "Xfanpower Trends and Automation's Impact" in the Commercial and Industrial Chroiucle for August 18, I960. 
I listened to the first of the great debates vdth 
Year End, 1960 37 
BILL CO\*XE and BILL JONES in AVasIiington shortly after the Joneses moved into their new home at 5516 Grove Street, Chevy Chase 15, Maryland. BILL COYNE had seen Judge BOB GRANT at the American Bar .•\ssociatton meeting. Bob, as you knott-, is U.S. Judge in the Northern District of Indiana. 
VINCE C.-\RNEY*s daughter sailed from Ne%x-York recently for Fricbourg, Switzerland, for a year's study at \^lla de Fougcres. He has another daughter at the University of Toronto (St Mi­diacPs) and a son at the pre-scminar>' at St. Bede's at Peru, Illinois. DAS BRtVDLEY has a daughter at Roscmont College. JIM ALLAN's son is at Har­vard Law School this year. My son is at St. Francis College in Brookl>"n. 
HOAME PH.\LIN, A^cc President of Field Entcr­priw; Educational Corporation, was in Europe and Japan on business this Fall, so he missed the games and class cocktail parties. 
WILLIAM (WEE) BROWN has been sccrcuo' of the Board of Education in Orange, New Jersey, for twenty years. RUSS RILEY ha» serx'cd as Mayor of Orange, Ne\v Jersej', for twelve years. He was re­cently appointed executive secrelar\' of the New Jerjc\- Public Utility Commission. He also practices law in Newark, New Jersey. BOB GRAHAM, who practices law in Chicago, was elected Vice President of the Notre Dame Law /\ssn. 
You will note that beginning with this issue my columns are shorter. It Is necessary' for all class secretaries to limit their columns in sccordancc ivlth the editor's request to have suflidcnt space for the large classes being added each year. I am sure all of you will continue to keep me advised of class news, so wc can alwav's have 3 representative col­umn. 

Tlie Class of '28 held Its fifth annual cocktail party on October 15 in O'SIiaughnessy Hall follow­ing the Micliigan Stale game. Thanks to our Class President JIM ALLAN, JOHN LAUGHLIN of the .Mumni Oflicc and our former speccli professor, FRANK KELLY, the afTair was vcty successful. We are also Indebted to DEVERE PLUNKETT, '30, for the use of O'SIiaughnessy Hall. VINCE CARNEY did a great job in promoting tlic excellent attend­ance. The following old-timers who Iiave attended all or most of these gcl-togcthers were present again: JLM ALL.-VN, FRANK CREADON, JOE HILGER, JOE S. MORRISSEY, WILLIAM H. MURPHY, GUS JENKINS, RAY .MULLIG/\N, ED R.\FTER, BERNIE SCHUH, VINCE WALSH. Tliose of us in attendance who Iiad been present at one or two of the prior parties Induced: LOU BUCKLEY, GEORGE COURY, BERN GARBER, JOE GRIFFIN, TOM HART, HENRY HASLEY, MIKE HOG.AX, JOHN IGOE, JOE LANGTON, JOHN RICKORD, MIKE RICKS and AL SCHNURR. Tlie following attended for the first time: EUGENE BROWN, ED DEAN, BILL DWTER, JOE GERAGHTY, ED McGAULEY, DR. BILL McGEE, ED McSWEENY, ED QUINN, BUD TOPPING, DAN VERRILLI and ART 2LM­MER^LAN. The following Individuals from other dasses w-ho were close to us also were present: BILL COYNE '27, ART PETERSON '30, OSKAR RUST '29, JOHN MORAN '30 and BILL BYRNE. You will find a picture of the group in this Issue of the .Alumnus. 
One great advantage that our annual get-togethers have over our five-year reunions is that the wives and diildren of many classmates arc present. MRS. JOHN McMAHON, the widow of our deceased dassmatc who did so mudi for tlie dass, was pres­ent with her son, a student at Notre Dame. Mrs. McMalion lives at 446 Longridge Drive in Pitts­burgh. GEORGE COURY also attended a meeting of the Advisorv' Council of the Notre Dame College of Commerce as a member of tlial group. BILL BYRNE, ^vho was with our dass from '26 to '28, came from Clcvdand for the party where he is Vice President of the Basic Aluminum Castings Company. ED McGAULEY of Leicester, Mass., spent five monilis in the hospital recovering from stomadi surger>- on his return from our 30th re-um'on. DR. ^VM. McGEE of Riverdalc, N.D., is recovering from brain surgery. JOHN MORAN *30, formerly of Boston, is now with the U.S. Depart­ment of Labor, Bureau ol Labor-^Ianagement Re­ports, in Chicago. JOE GER^\GHTY adWsed that his fellow classmate from Rodicster, N.Y., DON CORBETT, was the Democratic candidate for judge in that area. 
Wc arc fortunate In having one of tliosc rare and outstanding reports from BILL DWYER, as follows: 
"Report from Chicago, as promised to you at the ddi^tful '28 cocktail party following tlie Mich­
38 Year End, 2960 
GLENN M. HATCH, '28 Hercules Cements a 32-Year Relationship 
American Cement Corporation recently announced that Glenn Hatch has been elected president of Hercules Cement Com­pany, an operating division of American. A veteran of 32 years in the cement indus­tr>*. he was formerly Hercules' vice-president for sales. 
Glenn joined Hercules in 1947 as district sales manager in the New England area, came to the Philadelphia home office as assistant sales manager in 1953 and was elected vice-president in 1958. After taking his Ph.B. in Commerce he ser\*ed with Penns>'l\-ania-Dixic Cement Company in Rochester, N.Y., and Philadelphia before going to Lehigh-Portland Cement Company, first in the main office, Allentown, Pa., then in the Boston di\'ision office. 
A player in campus dance bands during his Sorin Hall days, Glenn has since aug­mented his degree with work in the Harvard Business School's ad\'anced management program. He was an officer of the N.D. Club of Rochester and active in other N.D. Chapters before joining the Philadelphia Club. He also belongs to the University and Midday Clubs and the Manufacturers Golf & Country Club, Oreland, Pa. 
With a couple of children already gro^^Ti, the Hatches now live at 1041 Holly Tree Road, Abington, Pa. 
igan State game. Tlicrc, with spirits undampcned, or, let us say, with spirits high, another line '28 tradition u-as most pleasantly maintained. It was good, indeed, to see so many fine fellows looking so well. As for the distaff attendance. It is clear tliat the men of our dass arc singularly blessed, or, in this respect, *'doubly" blessed. To JIM ALLi\N and the others who planned the affair, a vote of tlianks is due. S\)di occasions are as worthwhile as they are brief. Meeting my old Hannibal, Mo., high sdioolmatc BILL COYNE and his dianning Mrs. was one of the many pleasant surprises. Hope BERN GARBER will remember mc to LARRY CULLINEY as he promised, and that GEORGE COURY will carr>- out his agreement to shake the hand of JOHN PATRICK MURPHY for mc at 
one of those Subiaco Prep reunions down In Ar­
kansas. 
Walking my group back to the parking lot after leaving the '28 part>', I looked In on the '29crs as­sembled festivdy in Cushing Hall, hoping to find such wortliles as BOB VOGLEWEDE, LOUIS SINCLAIR, BOB WARD, JOHN ROWLAND, etc. In the happy hubbub of that gathering I did man­age to get in a few pleasant words ^vith Lj\RRY STAUDER and RED CURRY. ^ 
To >-ou and all *28crs who couldn't attend I re­port that the get-togetlicr hosted by JIM and Kay ALI./VN at their home after the Northwestern game v\-as a fpectacular, SRO, C. B. DeMille tvpe wing ding. By some CHRISTIE FL.VNAG/\N st>lc broken field maneuvering through gucst-flllcd rooms and artful side-stepping of hors d'ocuvr** bearers I came upon sudi stalwarts as ART ZIMAIERMAN, in from Detroit; ED McKEO^\'N from the Indiana Dunes; JOE HILGER, there from Columbus, In­diana, VINCE WALSH, that calm banker from Montlcello, HI.; VINCE aVRNEY, in from Ro­didlc, Illinois; and fdlow-Chlcagoans JOHN RICK-^ ORD, RAY MULLIGAN, FRANK CRE/\DON and WILLIA.\r ILVNLEY MURPHY. Bill Murphy was recently returned from Arkansas and he promotes that hilly and beauteous homeland of tlie razor­backs as the future cultural and economic center of the U.S. with all the enthusiasm of Winthrop Rockefeller. JOE HILGER herded the '28 fellows, or at least some of us together long enough to get a group picture. Renewing contacts with these lads and meeting their wives and families u-as pleasure enough to erase the memory- of the gust of wnd that blew N.D.'s game-tying point after touchdo\%Ti inches to the left of the scoring area. 
The Class of '29 was represented with dlstinctlonV at Allan's part>- by BOB VOGLEWEDE, L.\RRY O'CONNOR and FR/\NK DOAN and their wives. BOB and Virginia VOGLENVEDE and their family now reside in Birmingham. Mldiigan. Their oldest son is a Jesuit scholastic. I^\RRY and FRt\N O'CONNOR, from Lafayette, Indiana, have a daughter at St. Marv's and high school voungsters at home. JIM DIGAN of '29, and TO.M MED­L.-VND of '30, to my positive knowledge, planned to attend, but were kept at home by untimely Wsltations of flu virus on their respective families. Jim is vice president of Hadlock & Temie, Inc., the nation's leading producer of highest precision^ miniature die costings, and has recently moved fron:^ Logansport, Ind., to River Forest. Illinois. Some of the most beautiful churdi and school structures in the middle west, I'm told, are the work of architect ifcdiand." 
i From the Alumni Office: k 
DICK QUINLr\N advised that AL H/VNS died \ on May 13, i960, as a result of surgcr>'. He was | buried at Kentland, Ind., on May 16. He is sur-^ vived by Iiis wife. Al was 57. He was with Standard ^. Oil of Indiana at the time of his death and lived } at 6200 North Overhill, Chicago. i 
Tlie speaking sdicdulc to which Secrctar>* ^OU A BUCKLEY refers above has included more than 50^, talks in New York, Pcnnyj'lvania, New Jersey and ?. Mar^'land, most recently to a Chamber of Com-} merce group (including some classmates) in Buffalo I and to the Long Island branch of the N.Y. Club ;' tills month ^­
V 
1929 [ 
Larry Stauder I Engineering BIdg. ^ Notre Dame, IndianaV 

Immediately after the Michigan Stale game, about ' seventy people, '29crs, their wives and their guests, I assembled for another after-game visit In the Engi-t neering Building. Among the newcomers were ! ROCCO D. PERONE and C. ROL.\ND WRIGHT and Mrs. AVright. This was the Wrights* first visit to the campus since his graduation day. Charles Roland was a roommate of FATHER THORNTON while in college and had lots of ne^vs to exchange with him. AVrite the Wrights at 1509 N. Black-^ welder, Oklahoma City, Oklalioma, where he dcal^ ' in real estate. 
JOHN LJ\W and his sister came to tlie '29 gather­ing, as did Dolores and JOE LENIHAN and FRANCIS JONES, my fellow officers. BOB VO­GELWEDE made a rcser\'ation but •was unable to attend. j 
JOE WHALEN mailed his regrets from Des ? Moines. ^ ^ 
BILL BISER, JIM CURRY, JOHN COL,\X­GELO, FRANK HEUPEL, CLETE SCHNEIDER, JOHN SWEENY ("Delight" Swccncv and four SUKts), BOB ^MLLIAMS, DR. J,\.\IES TOBIN, PAUL BARTHOLO.MEW, JOHN CUSHMAN, ED DcBAENE, PETE BRYSSOOUT, TO.NI L.\NTRY, DR. ED LYONS, FRED WAGNER, L.\RRY STAUDER, FATHER LOUIS THORNTON, FRiUJK METTRAILER, JOHN DORGj\N, FA­THER PATRICK H. MALONEY of Hoirard Hall 
f|m r adoplcd tenor). L.\RRY LE,\CH (all '29), 
nd DR. JOHN TOBIN, '38, were among tltosc prcsL'iii. Most had ihcir wives wUIi tlicin, and some had gui'sls. 
Guest of ROCCO PEROXE xvas JuHiis Stclnbicker of Cincinnati, a Io\-aI Notre Danic fan and next-door neighbor of "Rock" and Agnes, who live at 1179 Coral Sea Drive. Tlieir sons, Rocco D., Jr., aged 9, and Perry, aged 5, arc the best baseball players in the block. Paulcttc, now 17, is a sccrclar>-; Mar>* Elena is married and living in Oxford, Ohio. "Rock" was hoarse at 4:00 but in good voice at 7:00. 
A FATHER JOSEPH BARRY and FATHER CHARLES DORE.MUS were axpccied at the gath­ering but did not have the opportunity to attend. 
JERRY OUELLETTE of Miami writes that he has just returned from Washington, D.C. where . . . "My son received his Dcaconatc and I re­ceived Holy Communion from liim for the first time. I can't describe my happiness." 
JI.M DIGAX of Logansport supported our Class function but was not present. Su2annc, daughter of Frank Metrailcrs, now a sophomore at St. Mar\'*s of the Woods, was not present; but Tom Lantr>-, Jr., a sophomore E.E. at Notre Dame, was. Ted DcBacne, a senior C.E., Is another son now at 
• otrc Dame. 
Wc had word from GENE MILUFF, CLYDE BUNKER, LOU REGAN, BILL NEFF, HAROLD BAIR, JAMES NOWERY, and are saving it (or the next Issue of the /VLUMNUS. Be sure to join us then, I might just say that CH/\RLES R. NOWXRY, '60, is now at St. Joseph's Hall, N.D. for prcparatorj- work prior to entering the seminar^'. 
JOHN COL/\NGELO*s father died last Decem­ber 14. Wc send our sympathy to him and to Xfar>', his wife at 10913 Brookvicw Drive, Brccksville 41, Ohio. John had a nice visit with Father Dorc­mus and would welcome a letter from some of his classmates—as would your secretary. Something like 
0ha t follows from TO.M McNICHOLx\S: 
"Your letter and the list of the 'regulars' who are scheduled for the Michigan State game recalls plenty about our days on the old campus. You may remember tliat I was eleven full years thereon, lived in all of the older halls (Including Howard, Mor­rissey, and Lyons which were built while I was in Corby), was ^vilh FATHER \\'ALSH two years of his presidency (having succeeded HERB JONES!), and then with FATHER CHARLES O'DONNELL from graduation in '29 till his passing in June of '34; then I did some of the chores for FATHER O'HARfV when he took over. A few of us pushed 
Jhc shorthand pencil and punched the typewriter 
•'^ r quite an arrav of great men—to mention a few: FATHERS JAMES BURNS, JOHN 0'HAR.\, WALSH, JOE BURKE, GENE BURKE, PAT McBRIDE, JOHN BOLi\ND, and some of the lav-men like CHARLIE PHILLIPS, FR.VNK LLOYD, and others like BROTHER CYPRIAN, ALPHONSE in Brownson, ROCKNE, GEORGE KEOGAN, NICHOLSON; and when we sold tickets out of carton boxes in the Main Building before wc had the stadium, FATHERS IRVING, MULaURE, JOE BOYLE, DONAHUE, CON HAGERTY and PAT HAGCERTY, and the Mission Band, and FA­THERS FOIK, NIEUWL.VND, STElNER, and te n like FRONING, FENLON, PAUL BYRNE, ONOP, JOYNES, PAT M:.\NI0N—ad Infinitum. A fellow could go on and on and the good Sisters in the kitchen and In the laundry* and in the Presbytery will always be included in that great era of hob nail shoes when the steps in the back of the Main Building wore out and had to be re­placed with iron! (Where Mike, the night Svatcli­man' reigned supreme as did 'Mike.' the keeper of Lyons—after II p.m. or 12, depending on TUFFY RY/\N's mood.) What a lineup of people %vere as­sembled on one piece of ground In the days when 
fathe r OTIara would collar a guy on the quad­rangle and yank him over to his corner room on the first floor of Sorin opposite the clmrch. 
"FATHERS L.\VIN and FARLEY gave him manv an assist as did FATHERS DORE.MUS and JIMMY STACK and DOC ALBERTSON, 0*.MAL­LEY, the HEISERS, and many, many more, not forgetting KERNDT HEiVLKY, TONC L.\HEY, FRANK BOL/\ND, MOONEY, all of whom looked 
After us in the decade of the '20s and the first 
MICHIGAN FOUNDATION Governor C. M. Verbiest, '20, chairs a meeting of city chairmen planning a statewide dri%e for Notre Dame's three year $18 million drive to include the $8 million Memorial Library. Standing (1. to r.) are Edward A. Gage, '29, Detroit co-chairman; Paul C. Hughes, '38 Flint co-chairman; Peter J. Keman, '49, Dear­born advisor; Joseph H. Carey, '32, Detroit co-chairman; Carl W- Doozan, '38, Saginaw Valley chairman; Alfred C. Ryan, '20, Detroit, special gifts; and Francis G. Kersjes, '30, Kalamazoo chairman. Seated (1. to r.) are John J. Fitzpatrick, *37, Battle Creek chairman; 
C. Robert Webster, '38, Midland chairman; Allan J. Powers, '51, area director; Governor 
Vcrbiest; John N. Cackley, Jr., assistant exec director; John S. Wittliff, '32, Port Huron chairman; and Thomas F. Halligan, '44, Flint co-chairman. 
vears of the '30s. Cadillac Hall was also our domi­cile, and JOHNNY M.ANGAN drove THE O.VE CAR. Following Father Charles O'Donncll's pass­ing, I was in Baltimore three years. I spent over fifteen years in Nashville, Tennessee, as the assistant to th-^ publisher and secretary-treasurer of The Nash\-ille Tennessean, then ten years In WInnctka, Illinois, during which time I was involved with subscription television, and have been here in Or­lando going on three years. My primarj* work lias been newspaper management. My wife is the former Juanila ^Ietz, of Indiana; we have three cliildrcn. Colleen attended Ward-Belmont In Tennessee and Northwestern, and married a Northwestern grad from Athens, Georgia. They are in Hato Rcy, Puerto Rico, where her husband is with Kelloggs, of Battle Creek, In the Caribbean area. My son. Tom, just 21, is in his final year at Annapolis and will be graduated in June. He attended New Trier in Winnctka, and played quarterback on the foot­ball team and also played at the Naval Academy. My youngest boy, Kent, is 16 and attends Bishop Moore High here in Orlando; he plays football, basketball, and baseball. I have him registered at school and If he continues to grow, he might be a prospect—I emphasize 'might.* I am an unofficial scout whenever I am looking for All-Americans for scliool, like all others of our lime on campus. 
"There are not many N.D. men In thb city, but I sec the crowd at Fort Lauderdale and some of the fellows in Miami cverv' now and then. Lauder­dale, of course, is vcr\- active N.D.-wIse and BOB GORE does a beautiful job for school there. Some of us hope to go ID the Miami game and find HERB JONES, BOB a\HlLL, ART HALEY, ED MURR^\Y, BILL BRODERICK, JIM ARM­STRONG, yourself, and many more of our crowd. My vcr>- best to LOU THORNTON and ^\NDY MULRE.\NEY. Would like to hear from BILL CRONIN of Larchmont. (Please remember mc par­ticularly to Father Walsh and Fathers Mulcairc and Irving and Pop Slciner, who was my next-door neighbor on the tliird floor of the Xtain Building next to the President's Office.)" 
Our sympathy to the sur\*iving brother and sis­ters of our classmate REV. JOHN MOLTER, C.S.C., who died at Portland U. of a heart attack Oct. 24. 
From the fUumni Office: A note from JOE PETRITZ, '32, former Uni­versity publicist now doing p.r. in Chicago, en­closes a clipping on a former classmate, DR. CHARLES R. VON SOLBRIG (better known, perhaps, as Charlie Solbrig). Tlie Chicago ortho­pedic surgeon has erected the pri\'ate Von Solbrig Hospital on the Southwest Side. A transfer to the 
U. of Louisville, he has quite a record as an army surgeon, inventor, etc 
1930 
Devcrc Plunkctt O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 

The week end of October 15 was a special at­
traction for 1930 Class people. The tribute to the 
football teams of 1929 and 1930 highlighted the 
festinties for the alumni. Elsewhere in this issue 
there ^rill be pictures, names and all the actirities 
of the former champs and their families who came 
with them. 
After the game we had a cocktail party in the 
Faculty Lounge of O'Shaughnessy Hall. BOB 
HELLRUNG and Mrs. Hellning took time out 
from visiting their son on the campus and dropped 
in to greet the other guests. DICK BLOO^f and 
Mrs. Bloom brought along their daughter and son, 
Ron, who himself is an alumnus of old Arts and 
Letters. Visiting with the Blooms were Dean and 
Mrs. LARRY BALDINGER of the College of 
Science. 
DR. JOHN FORSEE did not reach our party as 
he intended, but we had other distinguished medics 
in the persons of DR. EUGENE R.\YMOND and 
DR. PAUL MAHAR. Their famlh'es who accom­
panied in each case included a son now attending 
Notre Dame. 
The ART PETERSONS, just out of one game, were facing another busy week end the following' Saturday at their home in E\'anston. DON SCHET­TIG was on hand with three guests. He alternates between alumni doings of the 1929 class as well as 1930. In that way he has something going for him, all the time. 
MARSHrVLL KIZER, who was state chairman of Kennedy's preconvention campaign, was filling ^VALTER LANGFORD and me in on what to ex­pect in Indiana in a few weeks. BERT METZGER and Mrs. Metzger dropped In on our party for a while. JOHN O'DONNELL came by to tell us that he had to miss the reunion last summer because the date conflicted wltli his daughter's graduation Crom Penn State. 
Mr. and Xfrs. JIM SULL1V.\N and guests seemed to enjoy their visit to the campus and to meet old friends. 
SAM SILVESTRO brought along a guest, Mr. Jack O'Connor. Sam told us about a delightful trip this summer with his family, only to have at 
Ytar End, I960 39 
messed up a bit when *'Brenda" swept the cast coast h'nc. JOHN MORAN was on hand to greet all the guests. My own brother John and his wife Hazel prondcd Detroit representation for our party. 
TOM LANTRY, his ramily and guests ivcre at the game and the gathering in 0'Shaughncss>'. Tom's son is a sopliomore at Notre Dame. 
TIERNEY O'ROURKE and BILL FINK were among the prominent alumni attending a ktcic-ofT meeting on the Librarv- Drive. They also had the opportunity to attend the funeral Mass for CARDI­NAL O'HAR^V. 
JOHN ROCAP, bus\- with his Knights of Co­lumbus activities and his la\«' practice, still had time to visit the campus on the Purdue w*cck-end. 
Congratulations to our East Coast mainstay. TIM TOOMEY of Boston, on his nomination to the ballot for national alumnt directors. And com­miserations for JUDGE EDWARD SMITH, defeated by FRANK KOPINSKI, '31, in the St. Joseph County race for tlic Probate Court bench in No­vember. MARSHALL KIZER was more fortunate in his bid for re-election as a stale senator. 
1931 
James T, Doyle 902 Oakton Street EvanstoD, Illinois 
REUNION RIME WTiat '31 seers can predict without fears There'll be chances to gather for 30 more 
years? If you haven't begun to make plans, get it done For June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One! 
News is a little short this time e.\ccpt for those seen at the Michigan State-Notrc Dame Game. While walking around the north end of the stadium I had the good fortune to run into GEORGE JACKOBOICE, who looked vcr>' snappy in his Tyroh-an hat. Tlicn to top off the story of Grand Rapids I met my Howard Hall sidekick^ JOE BOYLAND, who promised to send more detailed ne*vs of our classmates in the Grand Rapids area. Needless to say, both looked well. I met JOHN C. SHERMAN, Jolly as ever, who recently spent four months in the hospital. John is with the Santa Fe railroad and was handling a trip for one of the roads. GEORGE COSTELLO phoned to say he and HARRY KENNEDY, in from South America, would be on hand. I looked for them at Gate 5, but without success. Marie and JIM McQUAID were on hand outside the ramp where I also met JERRY ANlGGINS and his wife, together with their son wlio is a Junior at N.D. Mar>' and TO.M MONA­H/VN strolled along with their llirec sons who are currently at N.D. Tom was real pleased about his son getting into the game at end. Theresa and SPIKE SULLIVAN were there willi their son. BART O'SHEA dropped bv for a few minutes, and I saw JLM GRIFFIN be>ond calling distance. (It was a shock to Icam that Jim died a week later. Deepest s>Tnpatliy to his widow and eight cliildrcn.) All enjoyed seeing tlie 1930 team on the field. 
•whicJi included many '31crs. Also strolling around 
Through a mail solicitation, members of the Class of 1931 and local South Bend friends of BISHOP MENDEZ contributed the good sum of $1,938.00 as a ^ft to His ExccIIeno-. 
This amount was presented to Bishop Men­dcz by JEROME J. CROWLEY al the ban­quet that followed his Consecration on Oc­tober 28­
This gift will assist the new Bishop tre­mendously in the many major problems that face him as he assumes responsibility of the Diocese of Arcdbo in Puerto Rico. Bishop Mendcz expressed joy and gratitude at this remembrpncc by his classmates and friends, and sends them all his blessing. His Excellcncj* hopes that he will be able to be present at the *3I Class Reunion! 
40 Year End, 1960 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—Among headliners before a record cro^vd at the annual Football Testimonial were (I. to r.) Ed Krause, N. D. athletic director; Duffy Daughcrty, Michigi :ait State athletic director; Father Joyce, N. D, vice-president and athletic chairman; sports 
oiaic ainiciic uirctiui^ i.*ii,iici jvj*-*-, i^. M^, ..^...-I^.^-J.UW..^ -«— «.... —„ —, „^ caster alumnus Jack Quinlan, M.C; and Club President Joe Hickcy. Jimmy Conzelman, not shoAvn, was another featured speaker. 
were BILL KIRBY and his daughter, as well as TONY CROWLEY (congrats to Tony on his nomi­nation for the Alumni Board) from E\'ansviIIe, Indiana, who brought me up to date on FRANCIS HENNEBERGER. BiU promised to send his brother, Joe, and ED FOLEY back for the 30-Year Reunion. I saw JACK ELDER and TOM CONLEY, who said tliat BEN OAKES was in for the week end also. Tlic R^VYMOND COLLINScs celebrated their 25th wedding anniversary in October. FRjVNK HOL­LAND and RED O'CONNELL planned to make the game but had to cancel out at the last minute. 
From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to FR^WK X. KOPINSKI and CLEM FIWEK, who made it as Probate Court judge and treasurer, respectively, of St. Joseph County, Ind., in November. 
1932 
James K. Collins 
3336 Kcmnore Road 
Shaker Heights, Ohio 
It was with deep regret that we learned of the death of BILL VAN ROOY on October 21 follow­ing a heart attack. It happened just a few weeks after his fiftieth birthday, and was a shock to cvcr\'one who kneiv him. 
He was extremely active in the N.D. Club of 
MOHAWK VALLEY — Valley Club of­ficers elected for the next two years at the annual fall business meeting were (1. to r.) Kenneth Murphy, '54, president; Thomas Reagan, '49, treasurer; Daniel Callan, '49, secretary; and Richard Trosset, '53, vice-president. 
Cleveland, ser\'ing as president one year, and was 
the Afan of the Year in 1958. He was very instru­mental in the promotion of the Club's scholarship-fund, which pa>-s the expenses of several students on the campus each year. 
Bill leaves his widow, Fran, sons Tony and Bill^ one daughter and one grandchild. His son TonjI and son-in-law, JOHN REIDY, graduated from the University. 
Our s>Tnpathy also to Mrs. Theresa Obelanus, mother and only sur\-ivor of STANLEY OBEL* ANUS who died in Chicago Nov. 9. ,' 
The good neu^ from Toledo, according to JACK f COLLINS, is that JOHN "BUCKEYE" CON-\ NELLY is well on his way to recover^' from his I prolonged illness. John has been ill for set'eral [ years, and we are hoping that his recover^' will be v complete. ' 
Tlic liming was poor for the gct-togclhcr after 1 the MICHIG^VN STATE game so nothing came oW^ it. Only JOHN KR.\MER and JOHN KE.VNEW wrote that the>' would be there. Others in e\'idcnce .* at the game were GENE CONNOLLY with his | son, Ke%-in, who is a Junior on the campus, JACKfe \\'ITTL!FF with several members of his family,^ JOE C/\REY witli his family, and ED KELLY wasT out from New York. Gene doubled up on the | week end by bringing his daughter along to attend T the Sophomore Cotillion. t 
Several more were with the 1930 team, which j was honored at the game. Among them were EM- |­METT MURPHY, REGIS McNAMARA, JOHNNY j ROGERS, MIKE KOKEN and STUMPY CRONIN. f. 
Among the recent changes of addresses arc: COL. REMI RE.MER to .Apt. 418, Tlic Stratfordr; 955 S. Columbus St., Arlington. Va.; JI.Nf DOUCET I­to 1218 N". Chambliss, -Mirxandria, Va.; REV. t-LOUIS PUTZ, C.S.C., lo Alninni Hall; REV. • JOSEPH PA^'XE, C.S.C., to Little Floivcr Rcc-; toi-1% 18254- E. Warrick St.. South Bend; REV. I JOSEPH .\fcGR.ATH, C.S.C., to Sorin Hall; |: GEORGE KE.NNEDY to 2603 W. .Vottingliani, > Peoria, 111.; CHARLES KRO.VCKE to 1502 Forest! St., Hastings, -Minn.; AL CULVER to 230 Center', St., Hobart, Indiana; BOB BRIGGS to 1108 | Rolioinberg, Dubuque, Iowa. ;­
From the Alumni Oflicc: ^ Congratulations to DOX McMAXUS, recently i appointed treasurer of the Foster Grant Co., Inc. i Formerly with Xew England Electric and Republic s .\viation, Don was most recently vice-president and | 
treasurer  of Landers, Frar>* and  Clark.  *  
1933  \  
Joseph A. McCabe2215 LincolnEvanston, Illinois  ^  • ;  

From the Alumni OfBce: Tlic following was presented by Sackett, Jr., ^LD., President of the Miami Alumnt Association, on the Notre Dame game, as a tribute to a nus of both the Notre Dame and 
I 
i 
 Walter W. /  University of |­ night of the T  mutual altmi^'  University c A 
< 

Miami, and as an inspirational type of talk. Some 60,000 people were in the stands at the time, and there have been many favorable comments on it. 
"Students, fcllou- alumni, and friends of our two great universities: In the brief time allotted me, I can think of no better way to salute you and our teams than to ask you to relive with mc a moment of some ten years ago. Merely glance toward the southwest corner of the stadium, close your cj'es and visualize that miusual person who thought so 
«
nucli of us and these events that he was with us egularly, despite his own adversities. 
"Surely, tonight of all nights, he Is with us once again, exhibiting the humility, the hope, the cour­age and faith that would commend him to us, as a beloved alumnus of Miami and graduate of Xotrc Dame. As a freshman classmate of his in those hectic first years of the University of Miami, I can only hope that his heritage to both universities will be a generous share of those qualities that have made him unforgettable. 
"Such is our wish as wc salute in mcmor>', ^fiamI and Xotrc Damc*s mutuallv endeared alumnus, the 0Boilcr Kid,' our own FREDERICK SNITE, JR." 
Pray for LEO DILLIXG, JOHX McXEILL and EDMUXD MORIARTY, whom the Class has lost In recent months. 
1934 
T. Edward Carey 223 Elmwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Ohio 

From the Alumni OlHcc: A Best wishes to BOB CiVHILL, HUGH DEVORE ^and EDWARD KRAUSE in their quest for a more 
prosperous grid season—if onlv for the sIor\- of the Class—in 1961. 
1935 
Franklyn Hochrciter 
702 Scarlet Dr. 
Towson 4, Maryland 

From the Alumni Office: 
0 REV. JAMES B. CORRIGAX, S.J., formerly principal and president of Campion High, Prairie du Chicn, Wis., has been appointed director of a new Jesuit Retreat House on the site of a lomier novi­tiate at Oshkosh. 
OLIVER J. CHAYIE, supervisor of technical pubh'cati'ons for the Mishawaka division of the Bendix Corp., lias been named manager of technical publications and reports for the RC.\ Missile and Surface Radar Engineering div., ^foorcstovvIl. X.J. He's been with Studcbaker-Packard, Douglas .Mr­craft, Cal. Tech, etc. 
A law>-er of the Class, Evansville steel and oil man 

jjTOXV CROWLEY has been named for the 1961 
'Fallot for the Ahunni Board. Best wislics. 
1936 
Robert F. Ervin 1329 Kensington Rd. 
Grosse Pointe Park, 
Michigan 

REUNION RIME As our Jubilee nears, some silver appears In our hair to remind us that 25 years Their gamut have run. Let's be second to none 
(03n June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One! 
Plans are progressing for our 25th Reunion but we need most of all the contagious enthusiasm of our class members to have a big attendance and a memorable event. Write or talk with your former roommates, classmates, or teammates and remind 
JLM SHERRY has asked JERRY VOGEL and MORRIE COOPER to serve as co-chairmen of the local arrangements at Xolre Dame. From personal knowledge of their work on our 20th Reunion, I know they'll do a terrific job and get the full coop­eration of all '36er5 in the South Bend area who constitute the Local Committee. If you have Ideas or suggestions please write to JERRY VOGEL at 537 River Avenue, South Bend 6, Indiana. He'll be glad to hear from you. 
Jcrr>', Morric and I had lunch with JIM ARM­STRONG and JOHX LiXUGHLlX the other day at X'otrc Dame and I'm sure from the plans I heard discussed, none of us will ever regret attending our 25th—nor will we forgive ourselves later on if wc don't make It. 
Our most faithful correspondent, Lc\RRY PALK­OVIC, for%\'arded a couple of letters from BILL SAFFA and GEORGE WEXTWORTH some time ago. In an accompanying letter Larrv tells me that MARTY PETERS is with Page Airwa>-s in De­catur, Illinois. Since these letters from Bill and George were misplaced and are now so old, I don't think it would be well for mc to quote from them, but will appeal to both of these gentlemen to write an up-to-date letter to me. 
Another letter which Palkovic has forwarded more recently Is from AL:\X DOXOVAX who is in Witllmantic, Connecticut. Here is what Alan has to say in part: "I am pleased that you intend to visit X'oire Dame next June as I certainly want to do so. .•\s you know I did not attend the 20th but I did in 1946 and had a thoroughly enjoyable time. I was home on terminal leave at that time and I drove out with my aunt with whom I still make my home. Among those I met out there and with whom I spent most of my time were BILL SAFFA and JOE M.AHAR from Kingston, Xcw York. I am with the federal government working in Hartford and commuting each day. 1 had worked with the Trav­elers Insurance Company for a year and a half after law school but did not care to go back uith them. I then had to decide whether to establish my own practice or take a gorvernmenl job with the Veterans Administration. I have been with the VA since December, 1946, and am a legal member of a rating board. We have four boards at present as against nine in the years Immediately after World AVar 11. I like the work and as wc arc given civil service cri-dit for military service, I have been re­luctant to leave. I do a limited amount of legal work on my own but am not permitted to do any court work which would Interfere with the working hours." 
Another review of last year's questionnaire gives us the following nc%vs items. MIKE LAYDEN u with Indiana Bell Telephone Company and, al­though at the time of the questionnaire u-as district manager, I am quite sure that he has since then been promoted. Mike has three children, all of tvhom arc now in college. Tlie former president of the Xotrc Dame Alumni Association >vill, like most of our class, be at the reunion. 
MATT LEARY is a lawj-er In general practice in Burlington, Vermont. Matt Is the father of tu'o children and expects to be with us next June. JOE MacDOXALD is ^rith the Continental Can Com­pany in Xew York as buyer of capital equipment. His home is In Farmingdale, Long Island. The MacDonald's have nine children, which puts Joe into a competitive position with XORV CASPER of Louisville. 
GEORGE MURPHY Is a surgeon in Upper Montclair, ^'c^^- York. MIKE O'COXXOR is a staff assistant to the Vice President of Research & De­velopment for tlie Lubruol Corporation of Cleve­land, Ohio. This company specializes in metal coatings, asphalt additives, etc Allkc's Job is pri­marily in a liaison capacity between research, sales, and promotion. Mtkc has two cluldrcn. BABE VOORDE might have greeted us next June as mayor of South Bend, but he was killed In an auto­mobile accident in September. Our sorrow to hh widow and seven kids. S.AM REED is a civil engi­neer vvitli the Department of Forests & Waters of the State of Pennsyl\*anla where he is chiefly con­cerned with the problem of flood control. Sam has six children, one of whom has been quite a success­ful halfback at George \\''ashington University. Sam's home is in Mechanicsburg, PennsyU-anla. 
\VAYXE THUR.M is the principal of a high school in Epworth, Iowa. ^Vayne has been in the teaching profession for 25 years In Iowa and for a ^vhlle in Arizona. He and his wife live with their six dilldren on a ranch just outside of Dubuque, Iowa. He feels we can do a better job acquainting-our classmates with current addresses. I am sure that this suggestion has recently been taken care of by the Alumni Association which mailed to all members of the Class a list of the addresses. 
That's all for this time. We still hope to get a class letter out around the first of the year when we will be really serious about getting you to sign up to join us in June on the campus. Since I don't know exactly when this column will come out, I want to wish all of you a Merry Christmas and certainly a wonderful X'cw Year. I know that if you attend the 25tb. 1961 will be an unusually memorable year for you. 
Michael Murray, '58, lecturing natives in business economics at a college operated by the LAY APOSTOLATE in Maseru, Basutoland,  Southern Africa, is being carried on by 
them to keep June 9, 10 and II open on next year's 
Association for International Development. For a report on Alike and his wife, see 
calendar for their one and only Slver .•\nniversarj* iW^luninl Reunion. Class of 1958 coliunn. 
Year End, 2960 41 
1937 
Joseph P. Qumn P.O. Box 275 Lake Lcnapc Andovcr, New Jersey 
In October I took Mom—alone—through tlic scenic section of New* York State called the "Finger Lakes" district. Weather beautiful and of course plenty of color that time of year. Enjoyed a stop at Hammondsport, N.Y., the home of wine manufac­turing in Xcw York State. Taylor Wine Co. takes you on a fine tour of the plant and then opens the lap for the visitor. Freeloader Quinn picked up his usual bundle of products and of course wc closed the "Hospitality Shop" for Section 3 of the tour. 
JACK GILLESPIE, 2EKE aVCKLEY and olhcnj had word for mc on JOHN GALLIV.-VX, named publisher of the Salt Lake Tribune. GalHvan got a column feature in Editor & Publislicr for Sept. 24, I960, page 112, picture and all, and seems a sure tiling for similar mention in an early ALUMXUS. 
Jack staled that JOE SCHILLING is now with Callaway Mills and lives near him in Conn. Joe 
•was with Firth Carpeting. Jack's boy ended up al St. Bernard's in Cullman, .Ala. lie sav-s it's Benedic­tine, but it's sure in Baptist territorj-. F"rom the .-Mumni Oflicc: 
BOB WALDECK, general manager of Overseas Operations, Ltd., Los Angeles, reported on his tour ivith the first U.S. Commerce Dcpt. trade mission to Kenv-a, Uganda, Tanganyika, etc: Recent re­moval of import restrictions in East ^Vfrica presents U-S, exporters with a golden opportunity to sell in this good and potentially great market. . . . Chi­cago alumni and friends of tlie late LUKE TIER­NAX presented a fund lo the University for statues in his mcmor>- in Sacred Heart Church. The Ticrnan Memorial, two statues from Obcrammergau, Ger­many, were dedicated by FATHER NED JOYCE on November 13. . . . New York's BILL FALLON is one of the candidates for the I9GI .Alumni Board. 
1938 
Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Avenue 
South Bend 25, Ind. 
Another Record for Our Class 
With Christmas carols still ringing in our cars, it's nice to know that one of ibe voices you just heard may have been that of LARRY "HOOK" KERWIN, who as a member of the St. Dominic's dioir of Shaker Heights near Cleveland made sev­eral records for Columbia the past year. Tlianks to WALT MONACELLI for the above information plus a color photo and slorx* of the clioir including Hook. 
.Another Honor for Sweeney 
CHUCK S\\*EENEY who works on Sunday for the National Football League as Referee ^vas named President of the South Bend chapter of the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame, of wbicli CHARLEY CALLAHfVN is a national director for the Midwest area. 
.Another Note from Bob . . . 
After 20 years, BOD HOLTZ, the old Sousaphone totcr and looter, writes from Elkhart that "After 14 years in the Band instrument manufacturing game as Treasurer of the Martin Band Instrument Company, I resigned last Xfay. I am now \-ice­
president and Treasurer of **Elkhart Brass Manufac­turing Co. RUSSELL "PETE" ASHBAUGH, Class of '48, is president of the company." The cliangc came about because of a "diancc and facetious re­mark that I made to a mutual friend," Bob sa>-s. Moral: If you want a better job, start joking—or working, men! Bob's oldest daughter is a junior at St. Joe High Scliool in South Bend where his eldest son is a freshman and a top basketball prospect. 
Another gathering of the clan . . . .. . at the football games. Seen in Section 9 at the California game were DON FISCHER and son, MOTTS TONELLI (39) and daughter, and H^\NK POJMAN (36) and wife. Callahan says ILM 
42 Year End, 1960 
HAROLD A. WILLIAMS, JR., '38 On the Sun a President Works on Sundays 
1960 was a banner year for Hal Williams of the Baltimore Sun. A working newsman in the classic tradition of classmate Nick Lam­berto, Hal completed twenty years of asso­ciation with the SunpapcrSj six years as edi­tor of the Sunday Sun and a year as presi­dent of the American Assn. of Sunday and Feature Editors. 
Just as importantly. 1960 rounded out 26 years (since Freshman Hall) as a total N.D. man; viz.: undergrad toiler for the .\lumni and Athletic Offices while ser\*ing as a Class officer. Bookmen president, "The Week" col­umnist in the Scholastic, etc: for nearly 20 years, secretar>' and .ALUMNUS columnist for the Class of '38, in and out of the Army and the U.S.; co-founder of the N.D. Club of Baltimore and charter chairman of her 
N.D. Foundation committee. 
Professionally. Hal defied a newspaper prejudice against English majors. Graduated in Depression's depths, he braved a few months as an insurance investigator and edi­tor of a weekly while waiting for an opening as a cub reporter on the Sun. Starting on the police beat in 1940, he ser\*ed as a fea­ture writer, drama critic, rewrite man, as­sistant city editor, magazine editor, foreign correspondent in postwar Germany, and as­sistant to the executive editor for all three editions before his current assignment. Even as a W.W. II sergeant in artillery and coun­terintelligence, he filed the hilarious scries "This Man's Army," wrote some delightful satirical features and covered the San Fran­cisco Conference. In the past ten years he's \vritten four books, several magazine articles, and various pamphlets on local history. A member of the Mar>'land Historical Society, he's author of a guidebook on Baltimore and is working on a history of the Civil War. 
Hal is married to the former Ruth Edna Smith of Frederick, Md., an alumna of Notre Dame (College of Maryland). They have four daughters: Anne, 13; Mary Helen, 8; Sara, 5; and Julie, 3. 
G\RSON and son were up from Indianapolis. 
I didn't make the Purdue game, which was just as well, as my wife Helcne and I were attending the Lindsay Company convention in Minneapolis. We were on the same floor at tlic Hotel Leaming­ton as Jack Kennedy who was campaigning through there then and Saturday night wc spent with TOM BOHEN and %vife Canncla in Minnesota Senator Eugene McCarthy's suite going ovei old times and looking ahead into the sixties. 
Sat next to FATHER JOE R.\CE at the -MSU­game with CHARLEY BOROWSKI, ILVY MEY ^ ERS, and JOHN FR^^NCIS in front of mc, Joe re­called the incident when after our losing to Pitt in '37 he inadvertently picked up tlic game ball that had been left lying on the field only to be suddenly attacked by half the Pitt squad. Because they wouldn't ask for It in a genllcmanly way, Joe re­fused to surrender it with the resulting hassle bring­ing half the student body to his rescue. Elmer Layden straightened matters out whh Pitt right then, and with Joe the following Monday. 
ARCH GOTT (37) and wife, Ann, who sat near us said that th? foiu* children of the late JERR^^ CLIFFORD, ui.osc wife had preceded him iu deatl^ by a year, have been adopted by a coasin of Jerry's in Chicago. They had no children and are now making a wonderful hunie for Jcrrj-'s. 
Another Move . . . .. . by FRf\NK .MAY from Toledo, Ohio, to 55 Mallard Ave., Grccnwiclt, Conn.—still with Johns-Manvillc Fiberglass, I presume. DR. BOB BRY/\N left hometown South Bend for the sunny Southwest and will accept night calls at 6041 E. Calle Del Suls, Scottsdalc, Arizona. CHARLEY DUKE moved nearer his job at Chicago's O'Harc Field and nm» lives at 1705 N. Kasper, .-Vrlington Heights, IIIj_ GEORGE MURPHY'S new address in South Mil f waukee is 907 Marquette Ave. Suggested New Year's resolution: Write llic old Swede! 
From the Alumni Office: From Peoria, III., comes word that J. J. L,\NG­TON, president of Langion Auto Supply Co., was elected treasurer of the Automotive Wholesalers of Illinois. . . . From BROTHER EDGAR, C.S.C., recently at Indianapolis' Cathedral and other Holy Cross high schools, wc hear he's vacationing from full-time teaching as keeper of tlie bankbook at Chicago's Holy Trinity High. . . . We have hearc^ indirectly from the widow ofxXLVlN DREILINCfB whose address has long been lost to us, that Alvin died at an undetermined time and that ths widow lives at 402 Eleventh St., South, Virginia, Minn. Please remember him in your prayers. 
1939 
James N. Motschall Singcr-Motschall Crp. 10090 West Chicago € Detroit 4, Michigan 

From the Alumni Ofiicc: WALTER H. JOHNSON, JR., has another feather In his cap. He \\"as appointed a vice-presi-i dent of McCann-Erickson Advertbing (U,S.A.) as ' of Nov. 1. "Spotlighted" in his rise as an ofiiccr of American Airlines, Walter has most re­cently been senior \-icc-prcsident lor markctinfl and a director of Capital ^Virlines, the first airline executive to head a separate marketing department. Another eminent '39er died In October. LOVD WORLEY, an oil executive and realtor, had founded a drilling company and was a leading N.D. man in Tulsa, Okla. Please pray for him. His widow and two daughters live in the Granada Apartments, 333 W. Second St., Scottsdalc, Ariz. 
1940 
Janics G. Bron-n 144 East 44th Street New York, N. Y. I 
i 

As previously mentioned at the dose of the last ^ session I received a good letter from MIKE ^ MANDJACK. From my room in St. Ed's I can | still Iiear that horn blowing in from Brownson. Aj^ 
f 

the present lime Mike is based in the Kalamazoo area and has been in the coaching and recreation field for the past 10 years in Chicago and Michigan. He has also been active in the music field with a five-piece combo. Mike has three children, the oldest of whom is now 17 and is well married. He encloses a picture :n full supper club attire and really looks good . . . full head of hair and ready lor a little four \vall handball with FATHER BRENNAN. Mike intended to make the reunion if at all pos­sible . I think we missed the boat in not having 
•^tik 
c down by special draft. I had previously men­tioned that a questionnaire came back undelivered from DICK AMES and he responds to set the rec­ord straight. Just about a year ago Dick lost his wife and has had a few problems keeping his family of four boys and four girls together under the cir­cumstances. Tliis is certainly a tragedy, and I know I speak for everyone when I convey the sympathies of the class to Dick and the children. He IS now with the Martin Co. and is located in Denver. He mentions .MIKE CORGAN, who is now coaching at Wyoming U. Dick expresses rc­

crcls but the reunion was loo big an assignment 

• 
tinder present conditions. Rode down to Chapel Hill for the X.D.-Carolina game this past season and spoke to TO.M HACKETT for a few moments. Tom had flown in from Springfield, Ohio. Will close with an exhortation to get those questionnaires back. 


1941 
Janics F. Spellnian 
7 East 42nd Street 
New York 17, N.Y. 

• REUNION RIME A memory rears that both blesses and sears: I'carl Harbor's behind us by 20 long years. 
Come on, '41, let's get all ihr yams spun June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One. 
From the .Alumni Ofiicc: JOH.V .Maca\ULEY and FATHER TOM O'DOXNELL liavc advised that tlie>-'ll do cvcr\'­lliing possible lo help the 20-year aiiiiiversar>' get­logelUer in Jvinc. but they'll probably be unable to ^landlc the local co-chairmanship this time because V>f Foundation and atumni commitments that keep them out of town most of the time. So. for the benefit of JIM SPELL.MAX, here's a quick and incomplete rimdoun on some good local prospects as "volunteers": ARNOLD ALT.MAN (wife Lil­lian). ser\'ice manager for NeAvman-AItnian Stude­baker: HER.MAX ALT.MA.\ (wife Shirley), whose company installs underground sprinkling systems (he could put one in to spout champagne on the West Quad): JOE (1\LL.\HAN (wife Patricia), engi­neering for Bendix: lawyers BILL HOSINSKI (wife .Martha). ALE.\ CHOLIS (half of Cholis & Cholis) and WARREN DErVHL (wife Marjorie) of Seebirt, ^are . Deahl S: Thomburg; BILL DO.MLMC (wife ^^ileen), counselor for market analysts Fadell & As-
WASHINGTON — Club President Robert ^utchison and Rev. George Maclnnes, "C.S.C, '56, converse at departure cere­monies at the Foreign Mission Seminary. Father Maclnnes is assigned to the Holy Cross Mission in Uganda, British East Africa. Holy Cross also has missions in India and East Pakistan, inspiration (or the 
^ campus Bengal Bouts. 
sociates; CHAS. GERARD (wife Ruth), representing Texas Oil; JERRY HICKEY (>vifc Rosemaric), Veep for Titos. Hickcv Construction; LESLIE L/\NGE (wife Mary), who lepresents Colip Bros. Electric; GEORGE .MAURY (wife Roberta), pre­sumablv still running U.S. Rubber; teacher MATT .MIHOLICH (wife Ruth); accountants JOE ADL­LER (Willett & Wharton — wife Alice) and GEORGE REED (with .Mishawaka's E. E. Ebes­kottc); truckers JI.M TINNY (pres. of C. & E. Trucking—wife Catherine) and BOB SCHULZ (auditing for Clemans Truck Lines—wife Margaret); JOHN SCHREYER, with the management of Oliver Corp.; JACK WALDRON (wife Pat), chemist with U.S. Rubber and mainstay of St. Anthony's Holy Name Society, St. Vincent de Paul, etc.; not to mention JOE GUENTERT, JIM HANNIGAN, artist ELMER KA.MM and other worthies on whom we're temporarily short of in­formation. If one or all w-ill step fon\'ard, the officers won't have to ask your wives and firins to release you for duty. 
1942 
William M. Hickcy 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 

JACK GORDO-V, 1477 Wilmore Drive. Columbus 9, Ohio, is now president of the J. W. Gordon Com­pany of Columbus, food & specialty brokers. Jack did not get married until 1949 and in that 11-ycar period there are 5 Gordon bo>-s running around the house. Jack comments that the nice thing about hts business is that if things get too bad, they can aK-ays cat the samples. He cordially invites anyone going to Columbus to contact him. 
BILL PADON, P.O. Box 1502, Houston I, Texas, has left Warren Petroleum in Tulsa and moved to Houston as Wee-president of the Transwcstcrn Pipeline Company, which is a new gas transmission company taking gas from Texas to California. He states that moving a wife, six boys, and two girls from Tulsa to Houston is almost as big a project as getting a pipeline in operation and not quite as economical. Bill has seen BOB POHL, who is head of an advertising firm in Los Angeles, 
JOE RORICK, Shorewood Drive. Sands Point, L.I.. N.y., reports he IS now a XVC commuter. JOHN H:\NNIFIX also commutes to his recent promotion as assistant patent attorney for IBM at 590 Madison Avenue. Joe is now manager of Fa­cilities Operation & Maintenance for IBM Corpora­tion. He has Just moved from Poughkccpsie, Xew York with his wife. 6 sons and 2 daughters. 
We have received an announcement from the Na­tional Life Insurance Company, Montpclicr. Ver­mont, announcing the appointment of DON FIGEL as general agent for the Company in Davenport, low-a. His office is in the Preistcr Building. 
JI.M .MAGAR.\HAN, 319 Lupine Way, Short Hills, New Jerscv", has left the Southern climate to move to New Jersey. Jim is in the textile business. He is the New York representative for a couple of South Carolina textile firms. Like many of us, his family of six ranges from 3 years to 17 years old. TONY Ef\RLEY is a business associate of Jim's. L.\RRY DONOV.AN and his wife visited with Jim recently. 
From the .Alumnt OfEce: WILLIAM B. PADON, ^^ce president for admin­istration of Transweslern Pipeline Co., figures prom­inently in a recent eight-pagc-arliclc on Trans-western in the Oil and Gas Journal. Tulsan Bill is a vice-president and director of Warren Petroleum. 
1943 
Jack Wiggins 5125 Briggs Avenue La Cresccnta, Calif. 

BILL MOORHE/\D, after seven years with the Chevrolet Division of GMC, now owns a Chevy agency in Anchorage, Ky. DR. GEORGE CAR­BERRY practices obstetrics and g>-nccology in Gary, Indiana; George has five children. DUTCH HOF­STETTER operates the Hofstetter Rexall Drugs, Inc., in Toledo, Ohio. After graduating with his 
B.S. in Ph'cy. in '48, he began as owner and operar tor of the present store in 1950. Investment broker ED RONEY wrote from Detroit shortly before leaving on the successful pilgrimage to Rome (fea­tured in a recent ALUMNUS). Ed has been a Councilman lor the City of Grosse Points Farms since 1955. JOHNNY McHALE, while visiting in St. Louis with his Milwaukee Braves, sent an in­teresting article about GENE FEHLIG's capttu-ing the St. Louis District amateur golf title at West­wood Country Club. GEORGE HANNINGER, se­nior electrical engineer for Southern California Gas Company, has recently moved to Santa Ana, CaliL from Burbank. ED CLEARY is a circuits design engineer for the GE plant in Phoenix, Ariz. From out Emigrant, Mont., u*ay comes information that JIM MURPHY is owner of the Ox Yoke Ranch. Jim would like lo see any dudes in that part of the territory. DR. JACK BENNETT has mo\-ed from San Francisco to peaceful Marin County across the Golden Gate Bridge. Bennett Baby No. 2 was due in December. CHUCK KANE, owner of a large Cleveland Ford agency, writes that racing micro midgets is a new hobby. ROG HENDRICK is in the construction business in Saginaw, Mic^. 
JIM McELROY is eastern sales manager for ^futual Broadcasting in New York City. Jim is a 13-year vet with the radio nenvork. ED HICKEY writes from his men's clothing store in Grosse Point, Mich., that he expects to be at the 20-year Reunion. KEN GEMPEL is superintendent of the Bcndlc Public Schools (Flint. Mich). JIM CLARK, attorney, is presently serving as a county com­missioner for Hamilton County (Cincinnati), Ohio. JOHN TRACEY is employed by Net*- York City Housing Authority as an accountant. As a sideline he is in the antique business with his brother, and they exhibit at antique shows throughout metro­politan New York, Long Island, New Jersey and Connecticut. CHARLES O'LEARY is central re­gional manager for GMC. travelling most of the Midwest and Southeast. He writes that RALPH VINCIGUERRA is an exec with Goodyear, Akron. BOB TOWNER writes on the sports staff of the South Bend Tribune. MAJ. GEORGE BARRETT is assistant professor of law at the U.S. Military .Academy. He's attending the JAG School at the University of Virginia beginning in the fall of '60. BILL DOUCETTE, Milwaukee insurance mogul, writes that the oldest of his ei^ t children, a boy, has Joined the Sacred Heart order. DUD SMITH is v-p of a South Pasadena, Calif., housewares manufacturer, G. S. Thompson Corp. 
BILL STEWART is rounding out another suc­cessful year (I5th) as a teacher and coach for the City of Boston's school department. Bill has coached the football, hockey and baseball teams for all these years. Last %vinter Bill made a trip under army auspices to conduct an umpiring clinic in Hawaii. NICK PAPPAS is an executive officer with the for­eign aid group, IC.\, assigned to Ethiopia. Another of the class in foreign lands is BILL WALSH, who is general manager of the Pfizer Corporation In Co­lombia. Bill had pre\*iously been uith Pfizers Mexico City operation. Bill claims his seven kids are all eligible for membership in the Spanish Club. 
DAN KLEIN is a partner in a South Bend CPA group, Willett & Wharton. JERRY CURRIER is vice president of the Detroit retail lumber company bearing his name. BOB OVERMEYER is an as­sbtant manager of the technical service division of Continental Can's Shellroar plant in Mount Vernon, Ohio. FRED KELLER is sales manager of the Harnischfegcr Corp., Crystal Lake. III., manufac­turer of diesel engine oil. JACK TALLETT is an attorney for the State of California in San Fran­cisco; he is a commuter from his peninsula home in San Mateo. If you need any trophies, contact sales­man ED CALLAHAN in L>-nnfieId, Mass. Ed repre­sents R 5: L Manufacturing Co., Kenilworth, N.J. CHARLIE STELTMAN is special :^tnt tor the Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Co., working out of the Syracuse, N.Y., branch. Another insurance man is TED POWERS, Houston, Tex., broker. DAVE ROLFS is president of Roe­mcr-Kairer, Inc., a Milwaukee physidans and hospital supply company. MAURICE McDERMOTT is a licensed embalmer at Haider Mortuary in Santa Barbara, Calif. RE^^ RICHARD POWERS, S.J., is finishing his last year of training as a Jesuit. He hopes to teach English lit after complet­ing tenianship at Auriesville, N.Y. Z^VNE SANDOM is general manager of the American Express office in Rome, Italy. SAM McQUAID is branch manager of E. R. Squibb*s Atlanta, Ga., office. Sam writes, as did BILL STEWART, of the death of GEORGE GROGAN, *.vho died last spring. Many of you -will 
Year End, 1960 43 
remember George even though he did not graduate 
with us. Please remember him in your prayers. 
JOE O'BRIEN is chief clicmist (or New- Jersey Zinc Co. in Gloucester, X.J. LEO BL.ATZ sa>-s that he will buy any '43cr lunch if they call Leo when the\* arc in London, England. Leo is Eastern }{cmi­sphcrc advisor to the petroleum sales department of Esso Export Sales. He has been in England for two vears and is a neighbor of GEORGE CROW­LEY, Class of '42. JOE KRESOCK, M.D., is a pediatrician in Springfield, Mass. R. E. BROOKS, M.D., is a Cleveland, Ohio, physician. FATHER TO.M ATKINS is pastor of Blessed Virgin Mary Parish, Scbcwaing, Mich. LOU KURTZ is sales manager of L. H. Kurjz Co., wholesale hardware, sporting goods, plumbing and heating supplies, Des Moines, Iowa. FRANK CONFORTI is assistant v-p of Tuition Plan. Inc., an education financing institu­tion in New York City. RENZO PESA\'ENTO is a field engineer for a Chicago construction company; he lives in Whcaton, III. BOB KING, another \Mieaton resident, is the commuting director ot sales for .\mcrican Mat Corp., Toledo, Ohio. FATHER BOB PELTON, C.S.C. is Head of the Department of TlicoIog\' at X.D., also doubles as rector of Fisher Hall. JOHN WALSH practices law in Marquette, Mich. John hopes to make the Southern Cal game in L.A. late in the season. DR. DICK MILLER %vrites from ^Vate^Ioo, loiva, that he specializes in obstetrics and g>'necolos>% Tlie Millers had their fourth child last year after 12 vears. Belated Con­grats to Dick and Beck>-. TOM'VOLBERDING is in the engineering dept. of Boeing, Seattle. JOE KREMER is in charge of the chemical and metal deparunent. Engine & Foundry* Division of Ford Motor Company, Dearborn, Midi. Food broker 
DICK HALL writes from Davenport, Iowa, to look for him at the 20-ycar Reunion. JOHN TOBIN is a staff writer for the Los Angeles Mirror-Xcws. B.ARNEY TURNOCK manages the s\stems plan­ning-papcr documents department of IBM, Pough­kccpsie, X.Y. CHUCK BA^VDER is an independent mcclianical engineer located in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. *'Q" STURM o«-ns radio station WTEL, Philadelpliia. Wonder if he broadcasts neighbor Dudle\''s Liberty Bowl game? From the Alumni Office: 
Congrats to G-Man OLLIE HUNTER, currently competing for the Alumni Board. Pray for JOE NORRIS, who died in late October after an operation. 
1944 
George Bariscillo, Jr. 
416 Burlington Ave. 
Bradley Beach, N. J. 
By the time this issue readies you, you should have received t^vo spedal '44 dass mailings—the one, a copy of our I5th reunion surx'cy compiled and edited by Class President JOHN L\'XCH; the other, a special announcement of our class program of education for effective anti-Communism. Chair­man of tliis new Committee is FRANK J, VIG­NOLA, 901 Park Drive, Mdrosc Park, Illinois, and as outlined in the introductor>' letter, Frank has available much study material, films, tapes, pam­phlets, etc. on the subject. Frank, president of \'jgnoIa Furniture in River Forest, has also some­how found time to be elected president of the Chi­cago Retail Furniture Assn. 
First, we wish again to congratulate John Lyndi on the magnificent Job he has accomplished in put­ting together llic results of the questionnaire sub­mitted just prior to our 15th reunion last year. I am sure many were astounded with much of the statistical data. This survey, inddentally, will no doubt serve as a model for other Notre Dame classes planning similar studies. 
A\*itJi respect to our spedal committee on anti-Comraunism, I take the liberty of encouraging all to take an active part in this program and to con­tact Frank \^gnola for materials and suggestions for organizing discussion and study groups imme­diately on this important and timely subject. 

A couple of items of interest—a recent issue of the Joliet, Illinois, Hcrald-N'eu's carried a front-page photo of the pO.MINIC F. BOETTO family, show­ing five of his youngsters leaving for school and waving goodbye to mother and three prc-school age Boctto children. Congratulations to Dom's dght 
44 Year End, 2960 
C. JAMES PARIS, '45 For a Lockheed Outfielder, a Circus Catch 
Lockheed missilcman Jim Pans planned to return to Palo Alto, Calif., from the frozen North in time to take his family to Los Angeles for the N.D.-Southem Cal game in December. By now he may have gone to Hawaii for a warmer executive assignment after a lonely but rewarding job in the 50th state. The job: manager of the Kodiak 
(Alaska) Tracking Station for the Lock­heed Missiles and Space Di^asion's re­mote stations and satellite systems op­erations. The reward: a key role in the first successful recover)' of a satellite capsule from orbit in the US.\F Discoverer project, for which Lockheed has been the prime con­tractor. In August the newspapers concen­trated on the actual recovery near Hawaii, but a few covered the technical aspects of the program in sufficient detail to point out the \ntal part played by Jim's Kodiak sta­tion in triggering the recover)* sequence by transmitting the capsule release command. 
It ^vas the most dramatic of several space "firsts" in which Jim has been involved since graduation as an aeronautical engineer in 1947. (Nav)' service prevented graduation with his original Class of *45.) As a de­signer for Chance Vought Aircraft Corp., he executed part of the Regulus missile design. As an associate engineer with BendLx Avia­tion and a design engineer with Ralph S. Riter Co., he worked on sections of Lock­heed's turboprops before joining that aircraft corporation in 1952, redesigning the T-33 aircraft, wind tunnels, etc. Transferred to the missiles and space division in 1953, he was alternately a design, structures, research and lead engineer on Lockheed's "X" series vehicles and prototypes of the Polaris and Blackjack missiles. Assigned as a recruiter in 1958, he soon became Hawaiian Station co­ordinator until assignment in October, 1959, to a year in Kodiak for the historic space achievement. Mrs. Jim is the former Gloria Cook of South Bend, and there are three Paris children: Suzanne, 6; Cynthia, 3; and Kevin, 2. 
offspring (and also the parents!) . . . JACK McCABE and spouse post-card news that they at­tended the North Carolina game at Chapel Hill and will be looking for classmates at the Navy game in Philadelphia. 
Class news is sparse this issue, and assistance in preparing our next column is earnestly solicited from our regional vice-presidents and from class­mates in the larger cities who may have informa­tion on other '44crs, as well as themselves. But this is not to say we would not also welcome mail from those in the suburbs, too. Help, please! ^ 
1945 
Frank M. Linehan 
29 Burr Drive 
Dalton, Massachusetts! 

From the Alumni Office: FRANK LINEHAN, while somehow managing the secretarial chores of the fledgling Notre Dame Club of the Berkshircs (see Club News), has also put out two flares for his dassmales. The first was a plea for the Class to help him realize his dream of men­tioning EVERY '45 man in the next four issues of the .ALUMNUS. Tlie second vras a call for the Class of '45 to dose ranks for a roll call at the cocktail party at Philadelphia's Ben Franklin Hotel after the Navy game on Oct. 29. Two more bulletins anA now in llic mail. In the first Frank, is joined in his Christmas wishes by President JIM RETTER; Veeps ART EDWARDS, JOHN a\RON, JOE HAGGER, and MIKE GARRY; and JIM DON­NELLY, treasurer. The second is a personal proj­ect of the indefatigable AL LESMEZ to rally all the J former dassmates who shipped out between *41 and i '45; AI wants to return them all to full membership ? in the Class and the X.D. Alumni Assn. before the ; 20th in '65. All wc can add to this mail is: t 
Breathes there a man \rith soul so dead v Wlio never to the Sec hath said, f *'I'I1 add my bit to the news I've read; ^ You'll have it in the morning." 
SHORT SNORTS 

Condolences to Republican candidate HENRY A. HOOVER, who lost out to MARSHALL KIZER, • '30, in the race for state senator from St. Joe \. County, Ind. . . . Good luck to JOHN R. \ CLEARY, transferred by Massachusetts Mutual f from the Minneapolis office to Cindnnati, where .v he'll also help with group insurance activity of the {­Columbus, Dayton, Lexington, and Louisville agen-; cies. . . . Finally, congratulations to DR. OWEN W. . DOYLE, president-elect of the North Carolina i-Radiological Society. Owen took his medical worl ^ at Yale and is now an associate professor of ra-; diolog>- at Duke University in addition to main-• taining a large practice in Greensboro, N.C. V 
1946 i 
Jack Tenge, Jr. i 770 California St. I San Francisco, Calif. ; 
REUNION RIME J 

So your rent's in arrears and the wife is in j 
tears; _ _ | You've awaited reunions the past 13 years. | Let the landlady dun; tell the wife, "Spare I 
me, hon, |. June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One!" | 
THOMAS W. BUTLER recently joined the All-| state Insurance Companies as public relations man-| ager of the Indianapolis regional oRice. Prior tc^ ' joining Allstate, he was associated with Atlas Coai^^. Sc Supply Company and the C. G. Conn Ltd., Elk- j-hart, Ind., antl Ofitce Engineers, South Bend, Ind. |. 
He has been elected to scr\'C as a board member of the Indianapolis Safety Council, is chairman of the ^ United Fund Drive for Allstate, and is an advisor £'­for Junior Achievement. ti: 
Tom and his wfe, Phyllis, have three children and >' will reside at 8238 East 11th Street, Indianapolis^^' 
1947 
Jack Miles 3218 Bentley Lane South Bend, Indiana 
ELEVEN COME, SEVEN MAY COME 

Since our lost effort m this space, U more men of '47 have indicated they'll be here for our June, 1962, reunion, and seven more have allowed them­selves a "maybe." So, even V/2 years from target date, our 15-year get-together shapes up as a prom­ising one. 
The questionnaires have been dribbling in, a fit­tin g manner of transportation nou- that basketball Reason's here. So far 125 have responded and their 
comments have been enlightening and helpful. If you haven't returned yours yet, will you please do so? 
Then I can send out a letter the first of the year summing up the thoughts they e.-(pressed and giving you an early-bird report on which of your class­mates plan to make the reunion. 
OUR S\'MPATHY . . . .. . is expressed to ED SAVXEXEV on the death of his revered father earlier last fall. Please say a prayer for the repose of his soul. 
 MALES IN THE MAIL Among those who identified themselves in their questionnaire replies were MICKEY Mc:\RDLE; TOM TADROSS; FR. THOMAS TALL.\RIDA, CS.a ; BOB ROSENTHAL; DICK VANDER ^\XGEN; PAT McSH.\NE; BOB MOLLiaV; and JOE a\NNAVO. The latter really hauled ofT and penned a missive, as we euphemists say. Here arc some excerpts: *'lt took 13 years but here I am with pen in hand; possibly it is the stamped, sclf-addrcssed en­velope and the sheet of paper that you sent which compels my thrifty soul to get with it! "Since I last saw you I have relumed to the 
• tate of California. I had 10 wonderful years in the trucking business in Pittsburgh, where inci­dentally I often saw JOHN .M--\STR/\NGELO, JOHN HUDACSEK and JOE G/VSPARELL.\. Then there came an opportunity to come back here to a ver>' interesting project—a friend of mine has developed a plant to convert rubbish into usable by-products (carbon, gas, etc.). Currently I am handling the transportation problems and planning. 
**Rcccntlv saw JOE KELLY, *45, and just a few-days ago FR.\NK PEREZ and PHIL LUPPI, who are all now Southern Californians. What do you bear from such as BOB MULCxXHY, MOOSE 
MATTHEWS, DON FISHER, PETE RUCANO, 
• PAT O'NEIL, JOHN TREVE, BILL PERRY, TOM DORE, ELMER ANGSMAN, FRANK SZ\'.\L\NSKI, BILL JANN, BOB XHCHAUD, DICK DIBUONO, VINCE MELI, JOE WALTERS, VINCE SCOTT, JOHN O'BRIEN, and so many others I could name? (Ed. note: If the foregoing is the only mention you've ever got in this column, shame on you!!) 
"The passing of JOHN DUCx\TO was sad ne\%3, indeed. I had several happy reunions with John and Josephine when we lived in western Pennsylvania, but I hadn't seen them in the last couple of years. He »'as a fine man and a good friend. 
^ P "I sincerely hope I will be able to return for the reunion; I am looking forward to it." 
JACK PAINTER writes to advise he is general manager of the Caroh'na Overall Co. in Rocky Mount, N.C., and to invite word from his class­mates; especially does he ask about GENE LONG. Come on, lads: Get out your brushes and give Painter a daub. 
That "Old Faithful Geezer," SAM ADELO, post­cards saludos from Buenos Aires; muchas gracJas, amigo, and give our regards to Jose Jimenez. 
W NEW .ADDRESSES . . . .. . are on file for JACK ALEXANDER (he's back at N.D. whh the Air Force ROTC); FATHER WALTER J. BUCKLEY, S.M.; FRANK GIOR­DANO: JOHN GL.\AB; BOB KINNEY; LEN MARCHINSKI; BILL RUEVE; ED SWEENEY; BOB TAYLOR; BILL THOMPSON; DR. JIM VANDERBOSCH; BILL WEBB; and BILL WISH­ING. 
JAMES RUFF, '46 Smooth in Marketing, RufF on Hospitals 
Jim Ruff was recently appointed manager of marketing ser\'ices for American Plospital Supply Corporation. 
In his newly created position Jim is re­sponsible for correlating market research, economic forecasting, and product planning for the corporation's 25 component divisions and subsidiaries. 
Jim brings more than 12 years of expe­rience in this field to American. Immediately prior to the new appointment he ser\*ed as director of sales planning and market re­search for the Norge division of the Borg-Wamer Corporation for sbc years. He had previously held market research positions at Apex Electrical Manufacturing Company, Cleveland, and the BendLx Appliance divi­sion of Avco Manufacturing Corporation in Cincinnati and South Bend. 
.A native of Hammond, Ind., and graduate of Catholic Central High there, Jim entered NROTC and attended Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., before he got a degree and U.S. Na\'>' commission at Notre Dame. Ensign Ruff then married Priscilla Joy Thoma of South Bend and embarked on a two-year hitch that preceded his career in marketing. 
Jim, Priscilla and four little Ruff-necks now live at 310 S. Kcnilworth Avenue, Mt. Prospect, 111. 
END OF THE LINE Tliat about wraps it up for this column . . . and for good oV I960, come to think of it. It's our prayerful hope all of you and your loved ones ex­perience the true blessings of Christmas and find peace and happiness in the new year. Let these be two of your resolutions .. . to keep: 
1.
 Pray and work for peace with justice. 

2.
 ^Vrite the class secretary with news, views, renews, previews, dues .. . or what-havc-youse. 


REQUIESCAT . . . RAYMOND A. O'CONNELL, JR., whose ad­dress apparently was 914 Monroe Ave., in River 
Forest, 111., died 12/7 of hepatitis in St. Anne's Hospital. He was associated vnih his father in a Chevrolet agency at 4625 ^fadison St. and was buried at 10 a.m. Saturday, Dec 10, in St. Luke's Church, River Forest. 
His widow, tlie fonncr Mary Gillen, survives, along with their children, Raymond, Margaret Mary, Mark, and Patricia. He had a brother, ^Vil­liam, and a sister. Mother Marie Dc La Ci*oix, 
R.S.H.M. He u*a5 treasurer of our senior class. 
This is our 15th deceased classmate, and I guess the ol' grim reaper w*iU be calling now and then as wc push toward 40 when life is supposed to begin. From the Alumni OfHce: 
The mother of a former classmate wrote in for some addresses and told us her son is now REV. Jx\MES H. FLr\NAG.AN, Returning after service as an ensign, Father Jim left scliool to enter the semi­nary. He is currently stationed in Holman, N. Mex., and that is probably sufficient address for those who want to reach him. REV. CLETU3 DIRKSON, CPPS, is an associate professor of political science at Indiana's St. Joseph College, currently teaching at the Calumet Center but taking brief leave for a lecture tour in Mexico. DAN MEANEY recently welcomed FATHER JOHN A. O'BRIEN at a D.C.C.Nr. convention in Ft. Worth, Tex. 
1948 
John Dcfant 
George A. Pflaum, 
Publisher, Inc. 
38 West Fifth Street 
Dayton 2, Ohio 

From the Alumni OfHcc: fVIthough former N.D. grid greats are still highly successful in the bruise and ulcer end of football (witness Mr. LOU RYMKUS and BUCK SHAW in pro coaching, PAUL HORNUNG and NICK PIETROS;\XTE as players), many cx-players have followed BILL EARLEY and the late great JOE BOLxVND into the microphone end of the game. GEORGE RATTERMA.V, JIM MORSE, etc., have invaded the radio-TV field once dominated by ca­reer men like '48er JACK QUINL^VN (who cm­cced this year's Monogram Banquet on the heels of his World Series and All-Star triumphs). The CBS radio-TV networks illustrate this trend ^vith the announcement that three former Irish team­mates will be covering separate bowl games on television during the Christmas holidays. GEORGE CONNOR (following a trail blazed by JI\f FERSTEL on the N.D. Alumni Board) will be at the mike for the Gator Bowl game Dec 31. JOHN LUJACK (just elected to the Football Hall of Fame) shares the mike with Michigan's Tom Harmon for the Blucbonnct Bowl Dec. 17. And TERRY BRENN^VN, '49, will telecast the Cotton Bowl game on Ne^v" Year's Day. 
The two hospitals of DR. TO.M DOOLEY in Laos have apparently weathered the jockeying among rightists, leftists and neutralists in that mL\cd-up kingdom, but Tom hasn't fared so well, hospitalized in Hong Kong for exhaustion and pos­sible bone erosion brought on by his cancer. Pray for him. 
1949 
John Walker 
^Vayne, Ulinots 

From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to JIM BYRNE, Easton, Conn., elected executive vice-president of the Warner Brothers (Bridgeport, Conn.) subsidiary, Laros Inc., having joined Warner's after graduation. Jim has taught at the University of Bridgeport. Also to OTTO POZG.AY, elected to his umpteenth term as a state representative from St. Joe County, Ind. 
In your prayers, please remember LOUIS BLACK, DR. L.\WRENCE DILL, JA.MES FAB­RIZIO, and EDWARD TRUFFARELU, ^vhom the Class lost in 1960. 
Year End, 1960 45 
CHAS. KALER, JR., Corpus Chnsti, was among the ivclcomcr? of FATHER JOHN A. O'BRIEN at a D.C.C.M. convention in Ft. Worth, Tex., recently. 
Philadelphia's JACK DEMPSEY may get another term for his interim service on the Alumni Board. 
1950 
Richard F. Hahn 
47 Emerson Rd. 
Glcn Rock, N. J. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Best wishes: to M. L. THORNTON, appointed 
division buver, raw materials, in the purchasing 
dept. of U.S. G>-psum; to HAL PLAMONDON, 
opening Gold Coast Travel, a new Chicago branch 
office of Gould-Kelly Travel, Inc.; to JOHN 
McGRODER, appointed assistant manager of the 
Cleveland brokerage of Connecticut General Life 
(John and Georgiana live at 879 Beverly Rd., 
Cleveland Heights with Karen, 8. and Patrick, 7); 
to Minneapolis' PAT DOUGHERTY, nominated to 
the 1961 ballot for Alumni Board. 
JIM POWERS of East Providence, R.I., a grad 
scliool member of the Class, has been appointed re­
search director of Technic, Inc., Providence. Jim, a 
former teaching fellow, joined Tcclmic in 1957. 
.\II were shocked by the death of JACK VAINISI, 
great business manager and scout of the flourishing 
Green Bay Packers, on Nov. 27. More about Jack 
next issue. Meanwhile, pray for him and for BOB 
WEST, Michigan State research dicmist killed in 
an accident last June, for their widows and children. 
BLUE CIRCLE ALUMNI Former members of the Blue Circle who M'ish to receive a Blue CHrcIe Alumni News* letter should send their names and addresses to Blue Circle Honor Society, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1951 
Robert Klingenbergcr 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. WaynCj Indiana 
REUNION RIME 
How the time disappears! We haven't 
cadged beers 
With classmates at Joer's for 10 long years. 
We can brag of our stunning new daughter 
or son 
June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One! 
JOHN MOORE was married to Miss Patricia 
Ann Skeely on August 5 in Jackson, Micliigan.' 
FATHER JIM MADDEN can be readied c/o Catholic Churdi, Beroidakuni, P.O. Haluaghat, Dt. M>Tnensingh, East Pakistan. Father Jim is still working in the mission field and is now located in the Taro Hills. He asks all of us to pray for the Mission there. 
PAT BARRETT graduated from medical sdiool last year, finished his internship this year in Minne­apolis, and now is associated in the general practice of mcdidne with John P. Kelly, M.D., at 3801 Nicollet Avenue. Minneapolis 9, ^finncsota. 
JIM SHEERIN, 5333 X. Pcnnsylrania Avenue, Indianapolis, Ind., is an assistant manager with Ernst & Ernst and has four children, two of eadi. 
MIKE JACOBS has been promoted to manager of the research and statistical department of the Mil­waukee Co., undenvriters and distributors of se­curities in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
TOM CARROLL was named executive vice-presi­dent of Master Manufacturing Co. of Hutchinson, Kansas, a subsidiary* of Dumore Co.. where he was sales vice-president. Tom is also a candidate for the Alumni Board. 
BILL WALSH and his wife sent an announcement of the birth of Jay Richard. This makes three chil­dren: two boys and one girl. (Address: 17 Badger, Concord, Neiv Hampshire.) 
KEN THOREN and his wife, Pat, had a boy, Peter Richard, on January 24, 1960. 
Mrs. ROBERT HAUTER writes that she and Bob are living at 620 165th Street, Hammond, In­diana and he is -working with Calumet Flexicore Corp. in East Chicago, Indiana. Bob spent five years with G.E. in their training program before joining his unde in business. They have seven children; two daughters and five sons. 
DR. WALTER B. LaBERGE, '47 Since Sidewinder, a Space-Agc Specialist 
An all-round space-age specialist even be­
fore the achievements of Bill 0'SuIIi\'an, '37 
(Echo I),and Jim Paris,'45 (Discoverer I), 
Walter LaBerge was appointed a few months 
ago to the newly created position of director 
of engineering for the Western Development 
Laboratories of Philco Corporation in Palo 
Alto, Calif. He is now responsible for the 
combined engineering resources in the bur­
geoning Philco division employing more 
than 1100. 
Walter had already achieved enviable distinction in 1956 when he \vas named by California Jaycees as one of the state's "Outstanding Young Men." The acclaim stemmed principally from his work as proj­ect manager on the Sidewinder air-to-air missile development at the U.S. Na\'al Ord­nance Test Station in China Lake, Calif. 
A native of Chicago, III., Walter received 
both B.S. and Ph.D. degrees at Notre Dame, 
where he was a distinguished grad assistant 
in physics. 

Joining Philco in 1957, he has been re­sponsible for systems engineering at Western Development Laboratories. Under his direc­tion Philco built a 155-ton, 80-foot telemetry and data receiving antenna which has domi­nated the Bay Area landscape for nearly two years. 
Walter lives at 110 Escanyo Way, Menlo Park, Calif. 

ED ME.\GHER was in town and called to tell me that he has moved East. Tlicir nc^v address is 74 Valley- Road, Plandomc, L.I., New York. 
BOB NICKODEM, 2739 X. 26 St., Sheboygan, ^\'isconsin, writes that they now have five children: four boys and one girl. He lias been named trust officer of the Security National Bank in Sheboygan, Uisc He reports that RAY O'CONNOR is comp­troller of J. J. Stangcl Hardware Co. in Manitowoc and has eight children. His address is 604 Waldo Blvd., ifanitowoc, ^Visc BOB NOURIE was mar­ried last year and has a baby girl this year. Bob reports that he attended ED BURKE's wedding last year and that LEN CALL 'was in the ivedding'. Len is liring in Dayton, Ohio, and sells for Air Temp 
Division. Bob further reports that he has talked to BILL ANHUT, who appears to be doing well in j the restaurant and hotel business in Detroit; FA-I THER JOHN O'BRIEN is teadiing religion at Xa\ier High Sdiool in Applcton, Wise; AL BAILEY was teadiing last year in Germany in the Air Force schools; BOB BERRY is practiring law in ^ Omaha, Nebraska, and lias three children. (5806 j Spaulding St., Omaha 4, Nebraska.) GENE MYLERS has three diildren and lives at 5570 S.W. Dover Lane, Portland, Oregon; ART SMUCK ha ^ two daughters and lives at 5353 Ralston Ave., Ii ^ dianapoHs 20, Ind.; BOB WESTRICK is practicing law in Chicago and is linng at 748 N. Kensington .\ve., LaGrangc Park, Illinois; and RALPH SCHULTZ is practicing law in Milwaukee. 
AL WARD, who lives in Fort Wayne, Ind., had 

a baby boy last spring and my wife, Margaret, had 
a third child last .April. Her name is Margaret Ann 
and this gives us one boy and two girls. 
With our lOlh Reunion coming up in June, let me 

suggest that each of you write to some of your 
closest friends and start stimulating a big turnout. 
From the Alumni Office: ^ 
Marine Capt. JAMES L. BLACK, JR., was rc ^ ported on Okinawa \-ia FATHER HESBURGH. Winner of the Bronze Star and countless other dec­orations in Korea and elsewhere, Jim has a few more months in the Pacific while his family lan­guishes in California, but he's due back in June of '61. Let's hope he can make the 10-year Reunion. 
S>*mpathy to Foundation area director JIM 

FRICK on the death of his father, Odo A. Frick, 
on Oct. 31. 
1952 
Harry L. Buch ^ 
600 Board of Trade 
BIdg. 

^Vhecling, W. Va. From the Alumni Office: J JOHN L.VWRENCE DAW and his erstwhile I roommate and fellow architect, JOHN J. SEE^ '51, | couldn't find any colleagues named Margery* or Saw, t so they've teamed up with a veteran Kansas City i-architect to form Roark, Daw & Sec. Daw, an ] Iot\'an, came to K.C. from Chicago; Sec is a K.C. j native. Both worked with other firms before joining t forces in '59. John lives at 7950 Canterbury, PrairiW Village, Kansas. " ^ 
Tennis menace TOM OVERHOLSER, still sup-i porting Jackie and his daughters as an adman for f the town's largest department store, has been traced .' to 2413 Union St., South Bend. i 
Congratulations to classmates and fellow Repub-i~ licans ARTHUR FRISK and TOM ROEMER for '< their strong showing against overwhelming Demo-I cratic forces in the recent St. Joe County elections ;: for state representative. }.' 
1953 
DaWd A. McElvain I 6717 Paxton Avenue t. Chicago 49, Illinois f-

Over the past couple of months I have heart^^ from several long-lost classmates, and hopefully this i will serx'e as an inspiration to the rest of you to I bring us all up to date on your actintics of the past 1 seven years. K­
ED HADERER is a project engineer with the | metals and controls division of Texas Instruments, | Altlcboro, Mass. (I hope you bought some of that I 
T.I. stock at the right time.—Ed.) Ed served as a | na\'al aviator at Key West, Florida, for three I years, then earned a master's in engineering man­agement at Rensselaer Polytedinic He is married tn ^ the former Margaret Mancin of Hartford, Connect* icut. TOM HAMILTON is an accountant uith Gen­eral Electric in Schenectady and has two children. FRED FAJARDO is a Tedinical Representative with Union Carbide, is married and makes his home in Forest Hills, N.Y. 
By coincidence JIM HURLEY is now living at the same address in East Orange, N.J., that I had y-when stationed at the Bayonnc Na\-al Base. Jim I'^m 
Year End, 1960 

now a teaching research associate at the Rutgers Law School at Newark, having camcd his LL.B. at Xotrc Dame in 1955. He also has a law practice in Newark. JOHN HORAN is a supervisor with the Pcnn Valley Crushed Stone Co., and makes his home in LeWttown, Pa., with his wife and three children. 
Incoming correspondence indicates that there is a predominance of attorney's in our graduating class. Another to include himself in this group is BOB 
/JHOODECHECK, who earned Ins degree at Georgc­
^mvn. Bob is now practicing in Winona, Minn., and was married to June Sclmeidcr of Winona on Sept. 3, I960. BOB KELLY u-as a member of the wedding party. 
It was good to hear from GEORGE HIGGINS recently, and to recall his tireless efforts in or­ganizing the successful Senior Ball. George is di­recting those energies now to his occupation as sales representative for Employer's Mutual of Wisconsin. George lives in Prairie Village, Kansas, with his family of three children. FRED lONATA is in his final year of residency* in the St. Louis University 
^cliool of Medicine, department of pathoIog>-. Fred is married and has three children. BOB HOEYNCK is a manufacturer's representative, operating his own agenc>* in the hardware and plumbing field in St. Louis. 
GERRY HOUSEMAN is proving to be true to his name, having just built his second home to ac­commodate a growing family of six daughters. Gerry is a field sales engineer with Rapistan of Michigan and lives in Grand Rapids. As if six girls didn*t keep him busy enough, Gerrv' spends his spare time officiating Michigan high school football, basketball, and track. Another Grand Rapids citizen is BILL 
^JACOBITZ, who is a process engineer with the 
^}iescl Equipment Division of General Motors. Bill is also contributing to the population explosion with five children. 
BOB JOHNSON is Cincinnati district sales mana­ger for U.S. Rubber and has been with them ever shicc graduation in various assignments in Ohio. His family numbers three children. JOHN HAST­INGS is Assistant Sales Manager with the Dobeck­man Co., a division of Dow Chemical. John lives in Lakewood, Ohio, with his wife and three small Hastings. ED IFFT is a Project Engineer, missile space instruments with Dell Aerosystems Co. in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. 
^ ^ A sizeable portion of our class seems to have re­mained in South Bend after graduation. Among them: HERMAN HOFF^fA^^ who is an architec­tural draftsman with Roy A. Wordcn & fVssociates advertising agency; JOHN HOUCK, who has re­turned to Notre Dame as an assistant professor in the College of Commerce; and JERRY HAMMES, who is operating his Ford agency' and de%'cIoping shopping centers when not otherwise occupied as president of the local auto dealers association, or as a member of the President's Council of Notre Dame. 
CHUCK JOLIE was married last May and hap­

;^-pily reports that the first heir is due early next 
^^|-ear. Chuck is in the direct mail advertising busi­ness with the Ilensley Co. and lives in Park Ridge, Illinois. DAN JAMES is a sales representative for Brown Wood Products, and he and wife Corinne live in Melrose Park, Illinois, with their three girls and two boys. D.AN HARDIN is in the contracting business, and is associated with George D. Hardin, Inc. in Chicago. BERNIE HESTER is another fa­ther of five, and is an accountant with Peter M. Shannon in Chicago. 
Our class was well represented at the Notre Dame-Northwestern football game this fall, and aftenv-ard many sad faces turned up at a Chicago 
Bl^lub reception chairmanned by JOE PAGLIARI. Among those who arrived to speculate about the misfortunes of Notre Dame ffmtball were: FRED TADROWSKI, BILL REIDY, BOB LEE, JIM O'BRIEN, JOE TRUCCO, LOU BOURJAILLY, GENE FANNING, and TOM REEDY. 
Other Chicago area classmates I see on occasion arc: DAVE OGREN, who operates an insurance agency- in Hammond; MIKE YUHAS, who has a position in accounting management with the Na­tional Tube Division of U.S. Steel in Gary; and 
|rrOM JOHNSON. Tom is assistant to the superin­tendent of production planning at U.S. Steel's South Works. 
JOHN JONAK is assistant treasurer of the Phil­lips '66' Petroleum Distributors in Portsmouth, Virginia. MIKE HUSSEY is completing two years with the U.S. Public Health Ser\icc in Miami and will start a residency- in obstetrics and g>-necolog>­at Cook County Hospital on January* I, I96I. DON 
KARRET T is a salesman for Allstate Insurance in 
ALFRED J. O'BRIEN, JR., '48 On Park Ave., a Madison Avenue Engineer 
The election of Alfred O'Brien to vice-president of O. S. Tyson and Company, Inc., was announced last March. Al con­tinues as publicity director of the industrial advertising agency headquartered at 230 Park .Avenue in New York City. 
Starting at Notre Dame in 1941, Al left in 1943 for World War II ser\'ice as a lieu­tenant in chemical warfare, returning to receive his B.S. in chem engineering and fortifying it with three years of graduate work at N.D. and N.Y.U. He made the un­usual switch from chemical engineering to word engineering in a very logical way, be­coming a journejTnan with a technical pub­lisher who insisted on technical rather than j'ournalistic training. 
Apparently a natural-bom communicator, .Al was on the editorial staff of McGraw­Hill's biweekly Chemical Engineering maga­zine when he joined Tyson in 1953. A year later he became the agency's publicity di­rector. 
A member of the Public Relations Society of America and the New York Athletic Club (piloted by Joe Lordi, '30), he competes on the NYAC team represented in the Metro­politan Squash Racquets League. With his wife Joan (the former Barbara Joan Graham of Copiague, L.I.) Al lives at 51-01 39th Ave., Sunnyside, Queens. 
Miami on Monday through Friday, and "bleeds to death ever\' Saturday afternoon the Irish get thumped." Don has a good start on a family, with six so far. TOM HURLEY is a nuclear physicist with E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., working in the heavy water reactor field. Tom and his family of five live in Aiken, S.C. 
TO.M SCHAUB received the diaconate at the Saint Rose Priory in Dubuque, Iowa, on November' 1st, and hopes to be ordained to the priesthood around June, 1961. 
ED JENNINGS is on employment interviewer with EI Paso Natural Gas Co., El Paso, Tex., and is also secretar^'-treasurer of the EI Paso Notre Dame Club. Ed is married and has one son. 
WAYNE HOLMGREN is an industrial engineer with Convair in San Diego. BOB HART, is a proiress engineer with the Lago OH & Transport - Co., a.' di%'ision of Standard Oil of New Jersey.. Bob lives' in the Netherland Antilles with his wife and two boys. 
That exhausts my correspondence for nowj hope-, fully the incoming mail will be heavy for the next: column. Hope to hear from all of you. From the Alumni Office: 
W. AfAYNARD S^fr^H writes that he has been transferred, "with all the troops, which now num­ber three {one boy and two girls),** to New Eng­land as liaison engineer for Cincinnati's General Electric with vendors in the Boston area. His new address is 21 Sunnyvale St., Beverly, Mass. 
1954 
Gco^e A. Pflaum* Jr. 1703 Harvard BKd. Dayton 6, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: 
GEORGE PFLAUM has been a very busy boy. In addition to gtiiding the destinies of one of the world's biggest religious publishing houses while ably conducting this column, George got inex­tricably involved as an officer of the N.D. Club of Dayton. Now he's been elected president, and ul­cers threaten. He has begged to be relieved of the '54 secretariat. You'll remember he almost accom­plished this last year when he put Decatur's MILT BEAUDINE on the ballot, then edged him in the election. Citing the closeness In voting and the press of his responsibilities, he has asked that Milt be appointed acting secretary until the Class can exer­cise franchise again in '64. So please send some news to MILTON BEAUDINE, 2271 North Church Street, Decatur, Illinois. 
BOB WALLACE, Moorcstown, N.J., contract rep­resentative for RCA's missile and surface radar divi­sion, just finished a 16-week management develop­ment program at Harvard Business School In Boston. . . . DAN COLEMAN, Park Forest, III., has been named marketing manager of Popular Me­dianics m:^azine, having Joined the staff in '57 as advertising promotion manager. He's also worked for Better Homes & Gardens and Successful Farming. . . . JAMES A. BERNHART has been promoted to zone sales manager for Motorola. Communications & Electronics for Northeast Indiana and Northwest Ohio. Jim Joined the outfit in *58 after service as a pilot with the Marine Corps. . . . CHARLES J. B. KELLER got an M.A. in English at Brtnt*n Uni­versity last June with a thesis on the relationship between mcdie\'al mystery plays and Catholic liturgy. 
1955 
Thomas F. 0*MaIIcy 6738 Kenwood Kansas City, Missouri 

From the Alumni Office: Contractor MAURIE CICCIARELLI, who re­cently wound up a term as president of the Peoria 
N.D. Club, Is one ^fonogram Club member who has been trying to help the scouting efforts of the Uni­versity's athletic dept. They could use more. . . . DENNY LAUGHLIN, art director for South Bend's WNDU-TV, has a new address for wife Joan and new daughter Kelly, a\'ailable on request. 
1956 
John P. Deasy 5697 N. Lincoln Ave. Chicago 45, lllinots 
REUNION RIME 

Oft our memory veers to big 'wheels and 
small gears 
We fought with for four and have missed 
for five years. 
Though they've all gained a ton, not a one 
should we shun 
June 9-10-11 in Sweet Sixty-One! 
From the Alumni Oificc; The Class* deepest admiration should go to REV* GEORGE MacINNES, C^.C . recently assigned to 
Year End. I960 47 
the Holy Cross mission in Uganda, British East Africa. Uganda borders the Congo and will receive independence shortly. Holy Cross also has missions in India and East Pakistan, the inspiration for the campus Bengal Bouts. 
J. J. McCL.\Y, JR., has joined U. S. Gypsum sale^ in the Ncu' Vorlc industrial division, having transferred from Mid-Eastern Industrial in Phila­delphia. Good luck to him and to LOUIS J. EDUCATO, who joins the slafT of the prosecuting attorney' in Grand Rapids, having been formerly in private law practice. 
1957 
Donald J. Barr and Jack E. Casey 463 Briar Place Chicago 14, Illinois 

C;\ROL DOYLE has taken the time to send us a letter with news of many of our old friends. Carol recently received his LL.B. from Columbia Law Scliool. PETER KEVES was in Carol's class and also was successful in his pursuit of an LL.B. CHUCK GREGORY has received his ^LA. from the same Institution. AL McMURTRIE is now the father of three children and was graduated from Georgetown Law ScliooI this June. Carol reports that cousin T. O. DOYLE is expecting a second addition to his family. Carol attended JOHN BROCKSCHL-AGER's wedding in Appleton, Wis­consin. JOE BOSSE, JOHN SUTTNER, TOM WELCH and JIM CHESTNUT were also on hand. BILL JACQUEXLAIN is working in Gary, Indiana. BOB KUHN is with J. Walter Tliompson in New York. JOHN CUS.AL graduated from Miclilgan Law School this June. Carol informs us that JACK ZUZAK began graduate studies at Georgetown this fall. 
JOHN GIBBS took the time to send the following news. ELMER KOHORST Is living in Albany, Min­nesota, and is coaching at St. John's Prep. PAUL TRITSCHLER is working for General Mills. TO.M MULGr\HY had a son recently. DON H.VNEY has two sons. RED GORDEN is engaged. BUD SCHLEHUBER is in law school in Minnesota and was married in July. 
Tlic Northwestern-Not re Dame football game broui^ht many old friends to Chlcaso. CONNIE LANE is out of the Marines now, and he and BILL BARTLING came up from St. Louis. Connie is in law school at St. Louis and Bill Is selling aluminum and Is getting married In Januar>'. P.AUL SCHIERL is attendini^ N.D. Law School and recently got engaged. JERRY BECKERT was also In attendance at the football game, 
CHUCK GRACE sends the following news: P.AT SNYDER graduated from Marquette Law School and is now in the .Anny. JOHN DURBIN is work­ing for Cummins Engine and living in Seattle, Wash­ington. CONNIE CONWAY is also with Cummins and lives In Columbus, Indiana. 
JOHN SLEVIN won the Lawyer Title .Award for tlie student selected by the N.D. Law faculty for excellence In the law of real property. Nice going, John. 
ROGER VAN DREISSE Is selling Fords for Van Driesse Motors in Green Bay, Wisconsin. STU RICH.ARDSON is with an accounting firm and is oHice manager in Mollne, Illinois. PAT SHEERIN and TOM FALLON are in the Anny at Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri, ajid were also present for the Northwestern game in Chicago. JOHN WOULFE just had the third addition to his family and Chuck Grace his second, a glri. BILL McGOWAN is engaged and will be married in the spring. 
JOE SULLIVAN is attending Wisconsin Law Scliool and has been elected the managing editor of tlic Law Review. Joe was married in August of last year; B.ARRY CORON.A \\as tlie groomsman 
48 Year End, 2960 
LOS ANGELES—Head table for N.D. Communion Breakfast in the Chapman Park Hotel included (1. to r.) Bill Daddio, assistant coach; Bob Lonergan, L.A. Club vice-president^ Bob Gcr\-ais, chairman; Father Hcsburgh; Mort Goodman, L..^. president; Father John Wilson; Frank Conaty, Long Beach secretary; Dick Bowes, N.D. Foundation; Ben Salvaty, 
San Gabriel Valley president; and 

and GUS INCO was one of the ushers. Joe also sent news that GARL/\ND DEVER is back in this counir\- after a tour of duty with the Marines in Frencli Morocco. 
The Chicago Alumni are still meeting the first Monday of the month at Bovcri's Restaurant and we Iiope We will see many of our friends in the coming months. 
DICK ZOTT is working for an art studio in Chi­cago. 
.As we have stated in the past, the success and the length of the class letter depend largely on letters from our classmates throughout the country*. Please make a Nc^v Year's Resolution to write us at least once during 19G1. 
Merry Christmas and best wishes for the New Year. 
From the Alumni Oflicc: Tiie aforementioned 5tor>- of insurance man WIL­LIAM K. McGOW/\N going into real estate with 
R. V. Welch Associates, Inc., should rate a special mention because of Bill's tireless activity with the 
N.D. Club of Indianapolis (see Club News). . . . BERT HORNBACK of Bowling Green, Ky., will implement his '61 M,A. at N.D. with a Rotarj' Foundation Fellowship to study literature in Europe. Congratulations, Bert. 
1958 
Arthur L. Roule, Jr. 
1709 Indiana Avenue 
LaPortc, Indiana 

As .Autumn draws swiftly to a close and the dead­line for submission of news copy arrives. It becomes apparent that I must throw the old t>'pcwrlter Into gear and launch another issue of the class news­leltcr. Happily, there Is considerably more news to report in this Issue than there was in the last. I have received several Items in the mail and have been able to pick up quite a bit of Information first hand during the past several weeks. So here it Is. . . . 
The first tiling to catch my eye is a wedding announcement from Jacksonville, Florida. It relates to the marriage, on September 3, of ED HOURI­G/VN and Miss Elizabeth Parker. More matrimonial news comes from Philadelphia, where on October 22 BILL McKEEVER and Miss Joycs Simmons be­came man and wife in the Church of Our Lady of Lourdes, in Overbrook, Pa. 
Recently I came across a letter from CL^\UDE HE:\TH whicli I had negligently mislaid last sum­mer when I received it and which I had conse­quently overlooked in writing up the last edition of this column. Claude is now attending law 
 (foreground) Rev. A. J. Heinzer, C.S.C. 
school. Washburn University, Topeka, after having spent his six montlis with Uncle Sam at Fort Sill. Claude mentioned having beard from DICK KOHLER and BOB PIVONKA. He would be glad to see anyone In the Topeka area—get in touch with him through the law school; his home addrc^A is Box 66, Leoti, Kansas. 
JOE BRIDE writes from Louisville to correct some information for^varded to us from MARTY ALLEN. Joe is a general assignment reporter (not sportswriter) for the Louisville Courier-Journal. He reports that he is well and acclimated to his Louis-'. vlllc environment, and that among those from whom i he has heard in the not-too-distant past are TOM ! CURREY, WTLL DECAMILLIS, PAUL UNDER. : KOFLER, BRYAN WOODS, and DICK L\'NCH. [ 
A letter from MIKE VOELLER's mother In • Poplar, ^^o^tana, Included a newspaper clipping '. with considerable news as to what Mike has bec ^ doing since 1958. He recently resigned as editor o™ the Wolf Point (Montana) Hcrald-.N'ews, where he had been since June of '58, to take a job as new*s editor of the Lewlston Daily-News. The clipping also revealed that Mike had been picked by a na­tional newspaper publication as "Editor of the Week" while with the Wolf Point paper. 
And as the final piece of mail received for this issue 1 have a very interesting letter from Basuto­land, South Africa. MIKE MURRAY and his wife arc at Pius XII College, 23 miles outside of Maseru, Basutoland. Mike is on the faculty of the college, whicli is the only one of its kind In South­ern /Vfrica being dedicated exclusively to the hlglic^ education of Africans. Mike teaclies business eco ^ nomics at the college, and during the rest of his ', time joins with his wife in social programs de-' signed to educate the Basutos to improve their lot ^ In matters of health, hygiene, and a multitude of : areas In adult education. Mar>', Mike's wife, also >. has been engaged in medical work—inoculations. In-\ jections, instructions for proper handling of cliild-| birth and child care. .As you can see, the Murrays ,­are lay missionaries in a ver>* full sense. Unfortu- f. nately they have been forced to cunail a great part ; of their activities because of Inability to get around ; in the mountainous terrain. In an attempt to solv^ this problem, they arc tr>-ing to raise enough moncjv to purchase a Land Rover (a British jeep). If you are Interested in aiding them In their work your contributions would be greatly appreciated. Send checks or money orders only to AIIKE MURRtXY, PIUS XII College, Roma, Basutoland, Southern Africa. 
That takes care of the correspondence, now to get -.• on with the Infonnalion garnered during the past [* football week ends here In Hooslerland. t\s many of J you know, your secreiar>- is still here at N.D. In I his third year of Law School. One fortunate aspec^ of this fact is that it provides opportunities to see -^ many classmates who would probably not he other-; wise encountered until reunion time. On the first « couple of week ends I ran Into BILL CARLEY, > DAVE AYERS, and JIM SCHERER. Mr. Sclierer, | who was studying for the priesthood, has left the ? 5eniinar>', and Is now coaching at Bishop Noll High V-Scliool in Hammond. I' 
.MIKE SH.ANNON was in town for the Nort# ' 

Carolina game and spent the week end with yours truly and roommalc, JOHN DUNN. Mike has joined the Continental Oil Co. organization after obtaining an M.B.A. at Stanford. Soon after visiting us he began a six-month visit with his Uncle Sam. On October 15, following the Michigan State game, Ihc LaSalle Hotel was the scene of a hastily [ organized class reunion which, because it turned out so well, will probably be repeated annually. While the returnees mixed, chatted, and boozed. Secretary ^jjtuule scurried around passing out pen and paper ^5nd gathered the following information. A partial list of those in attendance (i.e. those who signed the register) Is as follows: JOHN SULLIVAN, JAKE .MOREL.\ND, WALT HUURMAN, MARTY AL­LEN, B. J. WILHELMS, J.-W SENNOTT, BILL aAHILL, FRx\NK FOX, MIKE C.\RR, TOM EISENHAUER, JI.M BR.VDY, HUGH PLUNK­ETT, JOHN HIRSCHFELD, BOB PORST, PHIL CONWAY, MIKE GLE.\SON, JOHN DUNN, PAUL BOYD, JIM DOHRENWEND, JI.M! ARTZ, TOM MOORE, BILL JOHNSON, TOM .M.XX­WELL, TOM SHE.\, JOE RYx\N, BILL NEWELL, AtO D METTE, BRUCE JUNIUS, JI.M KEOUGH, 
"O N HOODECHECK, TONY VAN RUOY, TOM ^L\ZUR, JERRY SALETTA, MOON McDONALD, JOHN HIGGINS, and ROCCO PUNTURERI. 
The ne^vs received at this affair, wliich was con­siderable and which I will not attempt to depart­mentalize, is hereunder set forth. ED D.-\Y was married in August of '59. Hii and his wife arc the parents of a bouncing babv bov. Ed is working on his Ph.D. at Iowa State. JERRY MEYERS and his wife, Brcnda, arc expecting their second ofTspring— to keep company with their first, a daughter. Jerry is employed by the Department of Health. Educa­tion, and Welfare in Washington. DICK RIEGEL 
0 4 in the army. And DON HOODECHECK and wife Jeanne, who reported the above, arc the new parents of a man-child. 
DON CORBETT is in his senior year at Albany Law School. DICK Mx\YER is at Northwestern Law School and is reportedly engaged to a Los Angeles miss. DAVE MURPHY is heading up the 
N.D. Alunmi at Northwestern Med School, where he is accompanied by WALT HUURMAN, to whom We arc indebted for this news. 
JOHN HIGGINS is working in the securities business with Bache & Co. in Detroit. He is mar­ried and the father of a daughter, Joan Marie, 
^or n March 28. 1960. John claims that Miss Hig­
^^'Ins is a replica of her father—only prettier. TOM AL-VXWELL married the former Anne John­son in June of '59; they also have a daughter, .'\nne Marie (9 lbs., 2 ozs.) born July 10, 1960. Tom ts working as a salesman for the /Vnierican Natural Rubber Co., having finished six months in the Marine Corps In May of '59. BOB AHLLIAMSON is still in the seminar>' In Rochester, N.Y. JOE GAGLIARDI is marrii-d, as of Sept. 10. Bride— Kathy Gavin of New York. 
TO.M MAZUR who recently finished grad school at Wharton turned up and reported the following. JIM O'NEILL is in the army after graduating 
^^proni Wharton with Tom. The above mentioned 
TlOE GAGLIARDI is another Wharton grad. BRUCE M.ALEC is back from Japan (Na\-y hitch) and was married to Rosemary Fratto on July 16th. Bruce is noiv in real estate. TOM O'DONAI.D finished Wharton in June as did DON C^VLCOG­NINI who married Miss Joyce Walsh on July 2. 
BILL GE.\RY is stationed with the Nav>- in Hawaii. His wife Is with him and the Gearys ex­pect an addition to the family in May. TOM HiVNNEG.AN* is married and living In Chicago. DON H.\2ET0N is the proud father of twins; and .HM VAN PETTEN is associated with Roose­
velt Raceway in Chicago. 
^ JIM (CHIGAGO) McNAMARA has been trans­ferred to New Orleans by his employer, the Conti­nental Casualty Company. New address: 4723 Shalt­inar Drive, New Orleans 26, La. DICK PHEI^VN is in his third year at Georgetown Law School. TIM MURTAUGH Is also in his la-,t year of law at MIchisan. FRED OCZKOWSKI is with the army somewhere hi Germany. He is reputed to have made the statement that he "enjoyed" basic train­ing at Fori Leonard Wood. 
^ TOM O'BRIEN is empigcd to Cathy Runkle. ED 
BUCKLE Y win wed MISS Judv McDonald on De­cember 26 in Aurora. III. F1L\NK FOX, BILL CxVHILL, and JAY SENNOTT managed to escape their business obligations to fly to Miami for the N.D.-Miaini game and to enjoy a wcU-camed (?) rest. It is also reported from New York that KEVIN REILLY is engaged. 
BOB PORST is married (x\ugust 2, 1958); lives ^•kt Chicago; works for National Highway Carriers Directory; and is tlic father of a one-year-old son. .MIKE C.\RR is with Johns-Man\-ilIe Corp., Indus­trial Sales DiWsion, In Buffalo, N.Y. He will marry Miss Janet Coals on December 27 at Notre Dame. 
TOM EISENHAUER is working for Universal Tool Company in Dayton. He was married to Miss .Vancy Clarke on October I, 1960. JOHN KEN­NEDY is leading his class at the Georgetown med school (obWously running true to form). TOM THOM/\S is also at Georgetown Medical, while ^\NDY SULLIV.VN, DREW AMAS, MIKE HERB arc at Georgetown Law. BILL ROBI is a banker in San Francisco; MIKE GROG/\N Is at the California grad school and is associated with General Electric. JOHN CHOBY is at the Univer­sity of Pennsylvania Med School. 
PHIL CONWAY reports that—JOE FINNIE mar­ried Miss Linda Wilson on August 13, 1960, and is working for IBM. BOB TAYLOR married Patti Amiott of St. Mary's on the same date. Bob works for Frigldaire. BOB BOGG who Is with General Motors was married on August 20, to Miss Maureen -NfcKennan. DON KE;\TING is engaged to Miss Elaine Fester. He too Is with General Motors as a District Sales Executive. PAT KILEY is llWng In Spartanburg, South Carolina, and working for Darln-illliken selling textiles. GERRY PASTULA, now released from the Army, is living In Chicago. He is engaged as well. 
TOM LYNCH is now attending Wharton Business School after a three-year hitch as an officer In the Na\r. DICK MURPHY who also recently finished a stint In the Na\y, was married In July at Sacred Heart Churcti, here on the campus, to Miss Bar­bara Buckley of St. Mary's. Dick Is now attending law school at Boston College. JOHN KEHOE and wife Maureen are the parents, as of September 6, of a son—Mark Stephan. 
BILL JOHNSON was married to Miss George­annc Bailey of Atlanta on July 2. Ser\'ing as best man was TOM SH&\, who is currently serving as one of Uncle Sam's best men. Tom also ushered at the wedding in Miami, on August 6, of BILL GINDER and Miss Priscilla AVilliams. The John-suns reported that BILL LANDON was also re­cently married. He took Miss Alice MacKrclI as his wife last April. JOE RYAN and wife, Carol, are living at 15725 Taller, Detroit. They were mar­ried August 20, at Sacred Heart of Notre Dame. Joe is attending law school at night at the Univer­sity of Detroit. 
TO.\t MOORE reported that HUGH McGUIRE (who received his LL.B. from N.D. last June) is spending sU months at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. He is an assistant platoon sergeant, Is In charge of 
G.I. parties and pulls no K.P. Tom (Moore) and wife have bought a house in Royal Oak, Sllch., where they reside with daughter Anne Marie (17 months). Another member of the family is expected in February. Tom works for Detroit Ball Bearing Co.—as an engineering salesman. LOU BOSCO is In his final year at Detroit Law. 
MIKE GLEASON of Camp Lejeune supplied the following: He served as best man at JOE ELEM's wedding on June 25th. Joe and bride Janet are residing in Harrbburg, Pa. Others In attendance at the wedding were PHIL PHILBIN and MIKE &\NTWELL. HUGH HICKEY U married and living in Baltimore while serving in the Army. STEVE BARRETT, JI.M BRENNAN, and GEORGE NAVADE L are companions of Gyrene Gleason at Camp Lejeune. Mike was also on board the U.S.S. Tanner with JIM McKEE for seven months. He re­ports, in addition, that he frequently runs into CHARLIE SHANE In Washington. 
JERRY HIPSKIND and wife, Peggy, have a son born August 20; name: Mark Joseph. ROCCO PUNTURERI reveals that JACK TATIGUN is being married next May 6. JACK MORELAND was the source of the news that JOE PELLE­GRINO is in his third year at Boston College Law Scliool. Brother BERNIE PELLEGRINO is at the Univ. of Conn. Law School—also in his last year. Bemie is married and has two kids—Donna Marie and Sharon Lee. JOHN. CALL;\H.AN is also in his third year at B.C. Law. 
GEORGE OSER who Is currently studying for his doctorate in physics at Michigan paid us a visit during the w*eelc end of the North Carolina game. Just recently I ran Into old Pres. DON McNEILL who is back at N.D. Moreau Seminary after a year in the C.S.C. noritiate in Minnesota. Big Don is looking healthy and happy. 
Bureau of Missing Persons Dept.: 
Anyone knowing the whereabouts of TOM WOL­OH/\N is requested to report same to ROCCO PUNTURERI, c/o the N.D. Law School. 
Well, that about finishes the column and the t\-pewriter as well. May you all enjoy good health and good fortune and be generous with your corre­spondence. 
From the Alumni Office: ED HILGENDORF of Sturgis, Mich., now lives 1030 Portage, So. Bend, having joined the law firm of alumnus DAVID MATTHEWS and Assodates. . . . Mrs. VINCE SULLIVAN sent some info direct to the office on her family, in protest about a pre­sumed cold shoulder from ART ROULE, not realiz­ing that Art is hampered by early deadlines and slow communication between La Porte and the N.D. Law School. The former Pat Quinlan of Chicago and St. Mar\*'s, she married VInce while he was still a struggling student on a Fbher loan and a downtown job. Tliey returned to Chicago where Vince worked for Royal Globe Insurance, then to 
N.Y. for the birth of Kathleen Mauvorneen; back to Chicago as chief accountant for Owens-Illinois Glass, with another colleen. Shannon Mary. 
Art may have forwarded some of this, but Pat writes: "Since Sept. 1, I960, we have been in our first brand-new home In Toledo. Toledo is Owens-
SYMPOSIUM PARTICIPANTS for "Power and Democracy in America," sponsored by 
N.D. Student Government, included (seated, 1. to r.) Robert Dabl, head of political science at Yale; Peter Drucker, N.Y.U. Graduate Business School; (standing) Prof. Howard Erlich, Ohio State Psychiatric Institute; Prof. Delbert Aliller, Indiana University sociologist; and Dr. William V. D'Antonio, N.D. sociologist and moderator. 
Year End, 2960 49 

Illinois* home office, and ive were transferred here when Vincc was promoted. He is now home only on week ends as he ts hopping around the country' to O-I's various plants, gaining knowledge and ex­perience. In the past two inonlhs much tragedy has befallen tis: Vincc's father, Vincent Sultt\-an. Sr.. of Cincinnati, died on Sept. 27; my littlest girl broke her collar bone the same day; and three weeks later, the eldest had a serious accident and was in the hospital for a wirck. Let's hope that's the end of it! We have friends, also of the Class of '58. you might be interested in: RICHARD L. CASEY and wife Helen live in Hazel Crest Heights, 111.; just bought a new home; have a little girl Ellen, 2, and a new baby. Kathleen, born Oct. 31; Dick is with International Harx-ester. . . . JOHN* MEHIG.AN and his wife Bonnie live in Chicago, where John's with Arthur Young; have a baby boy, Thomas, and another one due very shortly. . . . CHARLES MELKEXT married Jeannine Xorkus on Nov. 21. '59; the>* no^v have a boy, Charles, Jr.. bom in .August. 'GO; Chuck is also with O-I here in Toledo. You. miglit also be interested in GUY MACIN.A, JR., '51 (I believe), who married my sister Sharon on June 6, '59; they now have a baby girl, Anne Tlicrcse, bom Feb. 13. '60; Guy is witli PaccSctttT Homes since Hertz moved the home otHcc to New York; they bought a new home and Iiope to be in it by Christmas. . . . JIM O'CON­NOR, '57, and his wife Judy, nee Valasco (S.M.C.) have been living on base at Tarawa Terrace, N.C.; Jim, due out of the Marines on Dec 13, will visit us on the way back to \Vyandollc, Mich.. Judy's home town; they have two little girls, Marj- and Trudy. .. . By the way, we are expecting another child in June; hoping for a boy this time, naturally. Nlnce is interested in joining the N.D. Toledo Club. . . ." 
LAW CLASS OF 1958 
John F. Marchal 
Marchal & Marchal 
116-118 W. Fourth St. 
Greenville, Ohio 

Gentlemen: I am sorry* to say that tlie rush of events did not permit me to enter a column in the last installment of the .Alumni magazine. While at­tending the California game, I saw BURT GREEN­BERG, who indicated that life was busy and pros­perous in St. Louis, and he was certainly a shining e!cample. I also saw ED MALAPIT. He is in his second year of Law School at X.D. and Is just as he left us, the happy Hawaiian. He asked me to send along his greeting to all of you. He told me that Ray is still In California with the JAG office and getting along well. 
JOHN MURR.AY has sent cards from Las Vegas and Dallas since our last column, and I'll bet Mursh has Avorked It so that he has a girl in every tax office in the country. Yesterday I attended the MSU game and talked briefly with TOM MCNEILL'S parents. They told me that Tom is still in Texas, but they didn't indicate anything about the sponge situation. How about It, Tom? 
BILL ENGE L wrote a couple of weeks ago. He was irj-ing to ?ay something about the Hues. I guess maybe he was hollering for a ne^v manager. He Indi­cated that he had seen BILL McLxMN on the ski slopes of LIgonier. Pa. during the past winter. Angel is the solicitor for the Ligonler Township Scliool District. 
I received a chpping from JACK ECONOMOU %vhlcl» liad been taken from the New York World-Telegram recently. It was a story concerning BILL RINDONE. Bill evidently was representing a woman accused of shooting her Iiusband, and the storv' indicated that he was withdrawing from her defense because he had been named executor of the dead man*5 estate. Sounds as though Bill is moving along if he rates the World-Telegram. 
TO.M OGLEVI E wrote recently, and told me that he now lias two cliildren. Mary Elizabeth and Nancy Louise. I am vcr>' sad to leport, though, that his mother and father have passed away since graduation. He also £aid that WALT WOLF and .Adie were expecting the first of October, and that he had heard that the Griffins were expecting again. Another surprise from Tom: JERRY CUR­RAN has passed the Colorado Bar and is going to practice in Denver. Congratulations, Coney. 
Now, for yours truly. Between my office \vork and my judgeship I have been snowed under since early In the summer. Besides, I am waging a cam­paign to continue as Judge, and In the latter part of July I became engaged to a girl who lives about 12 miles from me. By the time this column appears I will have entered the ranks of the lost, 
50 Year End, 1960 
NEW YORK—^Initial oflFcring of the New York Club's impressive Notre Dame Forun^ essayed "A Definition of Liberalism and Conser\'atism for 1960." Laetare Medalist Dr " George Shustcr (left) ofTered the definition of liberalism, while popular columnist George Sokolsky defined conservatism. 
and the dale is November 2Gth. Consequently 1 JERRY TRAUTSCHOLD was married to Carol haven't contacted as many of you as I would have Mae Feristrom In Chicago on September 3. JOHN liked to, hut hope that things will settle down In LE/\HY came through the collision between his the next month or two so that I can get a long ship, the Collett, and the .Armen off of Long Beach letter off to each of you. If you haven't written re­in fine shape, JOHN EDWARDS finished CCS cently, or if you know something about a classmate, on August 12 and after finlsliing Naval Justice send along the slor\*. Goodbye for now. School will report for duly to the Naval Sccuril^ 
Group In Clarksnlle, Tennessee. 
JOHN HARRON and brother Michael ('62) 
toured Europe this past summer and were in Rome 
for the Olympics. John is now finishing at Harx'ard 
1959 Business School for his .Xf.B.A. PETE SALSICK, 
.\L\RT\' MALONEY, and BRENDAN LOGAN are 
Dennis M. Nead still slaves to Naw desk jobs In D.C. JIM KEEGAN ! 
and DON WOOLFORD were on the Intripid in 
6121 Robison Rd. 

the Med on a sunmier cruise, 
Cincinnati, Ohio 

Jx\CK STEWART Is a supply officer on the Navy oiler, Chuckawan, and TIGER BRODY Is in and out of Norfolk on the Tremont. 
TO.M TRINLEY, BOB KRIBEL, JIM OGBURN^ 
PAUL \\TLLIHNGANZ, are In and out of Sai^ 
Diego and Long Beach. 
This will be the last column for the I960 ALUM­From the Alumni Office: NUS and I hope this first year away from the JOHN B. BELIVEx\U is a grad student at • campus has brought success and happiness to every­S.y.\3. . . . ROBERT J. KLEIN Is with Firestone I one in their present endeavors. The past Issues of Tire & Rubber in Malaya, c/o Firestone Tire & I the ALUMNUS have tried to cover the activities of Rubber Co.. Ltd.. P.O. Box 242, 22 Geyland Road, \at least one-fourth of our graduating class. During Singapore, and has founded a one-man N.D. Club \1961, I would like to bring this percentage to at there. . . . LT. JA.MES H. DORSEY commands Ileast one-half. Soon after the Ne%v Year a letter will the I63rd Ordnance Detachment at Fort Sill, Okla., ibe sent to ever>'onc, and I will ask that you return and comes from an Army family, his father. Col. ' this letter to your Class secretary for future refer­Francis Dorsey being Chief of Staff" for Connecticut, ence in the Class column. Here is the little news I have received since the last issue. 
CH:\RLIE DUGGAN, Chicago, and JI.M MAS­TERSON, Peoria, were drafted into the Army Se­curity Agenc>' in October, 1959 and have been sta­tioned since April of 1960 with a handful of men in 
1960 

Northern England, right In the middle of the 
f

*'moors." They both noted that the British beer, 
John F. Gcier 

"bitter," more than fills the bill as a substitute for Joer's "joy"; however, rugby just doesn't quite 715 La Crosse Avenue | make the grade in comparison to the Saturday Wilmcttc, Illinois f afternoons during the fall at Notre Dame. Let's hope that Saturday afternoons In South Bend start improving, or rugby might make the grade. 
GARY VONDRAN was recently in Cincinnati on a two-week business trip for a construction company In Cleveland, Ohio. He mentioned that my former 
roommate. BILL HICKMAN was getting married at .Again it Is lime for me to report the happenings : the end of October; I guess the skiing trips will be and whereabouts of your friends and classmates from | limited now. PFC. MARK SHIELDS is presently Notre Dame. Although I am not wholeheartedly % enjoying a six-month workout with Uncle Sam's pleased with the responses I have been getting from \ Marines on Parris Island. The days are short—five my e\'er-constant cr>- for ne«T>. some of you have \ in the morning till nine at night and the former heeded my emphatic plea and have come to the aid ^ 
vice president of the Class loves it. TO^^ JOSEPH of the column. | is enduring his second year of law at Boston Col­Received woid from .MICKEY PAVIA of Milan. |lege, as is JOHN SULLIVAN. Italy, who tells me he is anxiously awaiting the ar ^ Recently received a letter from JOHN HAY-
rival of his American fiancee. MIcke>''s mailing ac^P WARD, who at the time was in Naples with the 
dress b 40 Via Mario Pagano, Milano, Italy. Andl. possibility of rieiving the Olympics in Rome. At a 
from Germany I received a card frt>m ED O'MAL-1­turnover ceremony at Pollcnsa Bay, ^feltorca, on LEY, who, as it seems to me. Is "just wandering" August 19, s\x '59ers were anchored together— 
in and out of the Soviet Sector of Berlin. I cer-^ JULIO SPARACINO and PAUL HESSION on the 
tainly hope Ed makes the next class reunion. At ^ Forrcstal, BILL McCULLOUGH on the N. K. the time, Ed planned to jaunt thru Italy and' Perry, BILL GRAHAM on the GyatU, JIM LEWIS 
Spain before returning home. on the Stclnakec. EDWIN SILLI.MAN, now an ensign in the Unlle'^'i 
^ 
I 

States Na\-v-. uritcs that he is stationed aboard the 
U.S.S. Vernon County, homcportcd m Vokosuka. Japan. Ens. SiUtman reports thai he is ready and willing to serve as a guide of the Orient to any of his Xa\-\* comrades from X.D. who are stationed on the West Coast and who might be making a future cruise to the West Pacific. He can receive mail at this address . . . U.S.S. Vernon County LST 1161, FPO, San Francisco, California. 
Other changes in address which have been called my attention by those who are with Uncle Sam tc the following . . . ENS. PETE HUBER, c/o BOQ 2D14, .\.\S Glynco, Brunswick, Ga.; LT. JOE McBRIDE, P.O. Box 2184, Edwards AFB. California; ENS. PHIL RO.XHG, U.S.S. Stoddard (DD 566), FPO. San Francisco, Calif.; 2nd LT. CHUCK S.VWICkl (055IU85), 20ih Det. 2nd Stu, Bn. TSB, Ft. Benning, Ga.; ENS. JOHN &\R­PENTER, U.S.S. Obscrx-ation Island (EAO-I57), c/o FPO. New York, N.Y,; and ENS. GERf\LD GOUDRE.\U, .NTS Staff, NTC, Bainbridgc, Md. 
Our (ir^I class reunion, as I am told, >vas an out­standing success, held on October 15 after the Mich­^^ n State game. It was reported that more than ^K:o hundred '60 grads were present. To those who were concerned about my whereabouts that after­noon, yours truly was home In bed nursing a severe and insufTcrablc cold. Be that as it may, I jaunted to N.D. for the Pitt game, where I did manage to come up with the folloxvjng news, though somewhat fragmenlar>-. . . . PAUL RAFFERT\', JOE TIRITTER, BILL HE/\PHY, LES BROWNLEE, and GEORGE HEINEM.VN, who arc experiencing the plights and joys of a high-school teaching ca­reer, arc interning at the South Bend public schools as part of their Master of Arts teaching program at Notre Dame. . . . Others at Notre Dame are JIM ^^'SOCKI, who is studying law, and KEN 
^HDURGON, who is pursuing a master's degree in the department of education. . . . NORB WEICH, steadfast in his endeavors with the gcrm-frec animals at Lobund, is again rooming somewhere in South B-nd with his inseparable counterpart PAUL RAF­FERT\*. And FR.\NK HANSON has moved across the Dixie to the St. Mary's campus, where he has gained a leaching position there. . . . MIKE EHLERMAN, one of the grads whom I met at the N.D.-Pitt game, informed me that he is dcx'oting his business administrative energies to the General Elec­tric Company in Chicago's Loop. 
AL GRIFFIN seems to be sur\-iving the unyield­^^ g disciplinary' measures of seminar\- life. Those ^Hio feel the need for some authoritative answers to your many theological queries should write Al at St. John's Seminar^*, St. Clement's Hall. Brighton. Massachusetts. Both TO^f L/\MONT and JIM KE.-\TING are teaching English in the Chicago area. Tom has selected Loyola Academy in Wil­mette, which, by the way, is no more than a stone's 
throw from my address. . ^ . While Jim is teaching at Notre Dame High School in Niles, III., TOM O'CONNELL and DICK PLUNKETT, both of Wilmette, arc now serx'ing with the United States Army as 2nd Lis. . . . And BOB DIN! of Win­netka. III., is busily engaged in his law studies at the University of Chicago. 
Personal thanks and appreciation to those of you who have taken the time and effort to write—and who, I do hope, will continue such efforts in the future. It is letters such as these that not only can make for a more up-to-date column, but even more, give mc a personal gratification in being YOUR Secretary. 
From the Alumni Office: A note advises us tliat law students al George­town include JOSEPH CORCORAN, JOHN KENNY, BILL LESSER, BILL McMURTRlE, EDWARD MURPHY, JOHN SEARS, and MIKE SCRrVEFER—plus RICH^VRD PHEL/VN. JOHN RONAN, and DON 2EIFANG of '58. WARNER CONNICK is studying history at George Wash­ington. L^\RRY Hx\NR^\H/VN is with Fidelity Bankers Life in his hometown. RICHARD SAPP is married and taking grad work at Stanford. JOHN McNEIL is studying law at Catholic U. .MIKE MURPHY is at U.C.L.A. Law School. JOHN aVRRETTA is brokering with Merrill Lynch, etc., in New York. Ens. JOHN ROGERS is stationed in San Diego, TONf DEMPSEY, with Price Waterhouse, married in October. TOM SHISHMAN is researching in New Mexico. DICK NOWERY and KEN BOURGON are on campus, Dick studying for the priesthood, Ken doing grad work and teaching in South Bend. L^VRRY TUNER and BILL .MAPOTHER are studying law at the 
U. of Virginia. A. B. McMURTRlE, *57, recently got his LL.B. at Georgetown and is cramming for the bar, while JERRY BRxVDY, '58, is married and completing his second year at U. of California Law School. Former '60 classmates arc completing their education as follows: DAN D. HALPIN, JR., got his sheepskin from Seton Hall; FR/\NK SPIER­ING is at the U. of California, and ROBERTO SERRANO is at the U. of Miami. Thanks to the anonymous informant. Other soaring '60 men in­clude: BURNETTE GREGORY ST. RO.NULV, of Bunkie, La., studying for his bachelor's In foreign trade come ^fav '61 at the fVmerican Institute of ForeisnTrade,PhocnLx, Ariz.; JOSEPH A. CLARK, Lancaster, Pa., and the U.S. Na\"y, who's won a Rolar>' Foundation Fellowship to study physics at a European university in preparation for college teaching or research; W. GILLEN KING, Hudson, N.Y., studying for a master's in education at Harvard next June, with another Rotary Fellow­ship to pursue educational psychology for use in university level education. 
Rev. William F. Cunningham, CLS.C. (right), veteran professor of education, re­ceives an honorary LL.D. degree from Father Joyce at summer commencement exercises. An advisor to many schools and ^ice-president of the National Catholic Education Assn., Father Cimningham was cited as "'one of the most influential Cath­olic educators in America.** 
FIVE NOTRE DAME COACHES who succeeded Knute Rocknc in the head football post 
get together at a Rockne dinner in Chicago, (from left) Heartley "Hunk" Anderson, Elmer 
Layden, Frank Leahy, Terry Brennan and Joe Kuharich. Not shown arc World War II ^ coaches Hugh Devore and Ed McKecvcr. 
FRIENDS AND CLASSMATES from his adopted Class of '36 commemorated the late Luke Ticman, LL.B. '38, Chicago, with these carved statues of the Sacred Heart and St. Joseph from Obcrammergau, Germany, in the sanctuary of Sacred Heart Church on campus. 
Year End, 1960 51 

The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
December 15, 1960 Fellow Alumni: 
May the choicest blessings of 1961 be upon you and your families as upon the whole Family of Notre Dame. 
I'm taking this opportunity to thank you for the privilege of sen-ing as your president through the past year and to point out a few of the things I've seen you accomplish during this brief tenure. 
This is no "State of the -Association" report. Fll spare you that and report for the Executive Committee at the \Vinter Board Meeting Januar>' 19-21. By that time you will have selected four new directors of the .Alumni -Association from among the eight outstanding men shown on page 3 of this magazine. At that time these men will be installed and ray successor elected to bring you, perhaps, a more detailed e\-aluation of the rushing events of 1960. 
But a quick summary' is an easy task when I refer to the little-noted column that generally appears on the inside front cover of this publication. The twelve men listed there, and the committee assignments that they fill so conscientiously, are a convenient outline of progress in .Alumni-University affairs. 
The high lights, of course, do less than justice to the work of Vice-Presidents James Shells, Joseph Stewart, and Paul Cushing in the respective fields of Alumni Clubs, -Alumni Classes, and the -Alumni Fund. The Notre Dame Clubs, 170 strong a year ago, now number 182; the numerical ad\-ance is not so dramatic as the advance in variety and scope of activity, obvious to the most casual scanner of Club reports — with no small thanks due to the -Alunmi-.Administration liaison of Father Thomas O'DonncU and efforts of Alumni Board members in their own areas; greater progress can be expected to follow the Biennial Council of Club Presidents beginning Januarj' 20. Class activity is most apparent in the report of the last reunion, the football season activity reported in this issue, etc-, but it is also increasing within the Club structurc­-And the health of the -Alumni Fund can best be ascertained by its latest undertaking — a lion's share of the most ambitious single project ever launched at Notre Dame, construction of a Memorial Librarj' worthy of a great Catholic univcrsity-
The vice-presidents have the help of members James Byrne, Walter Fleming, and "Red" Shea in other important committee chairmanships. Progress in prep school contacts, admissions and scholarship activity by alumni, etc., is reported regularly by their administrator. Father James Moran. Father Louis Thornton, backed by a standing pledge of assistance from the Alumni Board, can state that Notre Dame men have few of the emplo>'ment problems reported throughout the U-S-; his claim is bolstered by a sweeping alumni sur\'ey which you will read through the coming year. The areas of inter-alumni affairs, prestige, public relations, religion and citizenship have spilled into one another in many of the year's events: a sweeping salute to the far-flung Notre Dame Family on Universal Notre Dame Night, including even "rival" institutions; a study of the 1961-62 Ecumenical Council on Notre Dame Communion Sunday just concluded, that may foreshadow a great ecumenical movement among American laymen; a widely acclaimed program of intellectual refreshment that included a full year of "The Sublime Tradition" supplement in the ALUMNUS, the "Alumni Forum" program of the reunions, and such individual projects as the New York Club's great "Notre Dame Forum" debates and broadcasts (see Club News), "Executive Seminars," Great Books movements, and Anti-Communist study programs among the Clubs and Classes. 
Honorary President Bill Cotter, members Jack Dempsey, Maurice Carroll, Bill Mahoney, George Connor and Harry Mehre helped greatly in these and other programs. A new president and four new members will soon carry on the vital work. To all of them I wish a happy and fruitful new year. 
Sincerely, 

^^O'd^ 
JOHN G. O'CONNOR, '38 President 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 







