The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

ALUMNUS 
Qiaskinglou jtall, L(miiKnHf of cNjiln jit 

^inecto^ of Clubs and Their Presidents » » 
ARIZONA—PHOENK—Robert Kendall, "31, 302 Mitchell Dr. TUCSON—Ted W. Witz, '29. Box 628 
ARKANSAS—^Bort L. Eoberts. '16, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Eock (secretary) 
CALIFOKNIA—LOS ANGELES—Vernon E. Rick­ard, '24, 1620 N. Vista St., HoIl>^vood 46, Calif. 
NORTHERN—William J. Yore, e.^. '29, 627 Adams St, Albany. Calif. 
SAN DIEGO—W. Albert Stew-art. '36, 72S San Dieso Tr. £ Savings Bank Bldg. 
COLORADO — DENVER — Francis Brown. '31. 2023 Oneida St. 
CONNECTICCT — CWNNECnCUT VALLBT — William J. Rcid, '26, 7 May St., Hartford, Conn. 
NAUGATUCK VALLEY—D. Frank Mumanc. "32, Sammit Ed., Prospect, Conn. (Water­biiiy area) 
SOUTHWESTERN—Frank S. McGec, '33, 51 Savoy St., Bridgeport 6 (Bridgeport area) 
DELAWARE—Arthur A. Baum. '36, 1310 Van Buren St., Apt. 3-C, Wilminston. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA — WASHINGTON— Thomas L. McKe«tt, '32, 10,108 Big Rock, Rd., Silver Spring, ilarjland. 
FLORIDA—GREATER MIAMI—I. I. Probst, '26. 1118 Alberea Ave., Coral Gables, Fla. 
FT. LAUDERDALE—Robert H. Gore. '31. 221 N.E. River Drive, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
NORTH FLGRID.-V—John F. Uinahan. '43. 
P.O. Box 1498, Jacksonville. Fla. 
GEORGIA—William H. Schroder, Jr., '35, 152 Rumson Rd., .Atlanta, Ga. 
ILLINOIS—CHICAGO—James R. Cronin. '35, 3902 Cottase Grove Ave. 
FOX V.\LLEY—William B. Chaw-go, '31, 516 Binder St., Aurora, III. 
JOLIET—Joseph V. Kirincieh, '33, 306 Ruby SL 
PEORL\—Donald P. Smith, '40, 435 Linn St. 
BOCK RIVER VALLEY — Donald A. Hcn­nessy, '37, Catholic Community High School, Sterlins, HI. (Rockford-Dixon area) 
SPRINGFmLD — Richard T. Neeson, '30, 806 S. Sth St 
INDIANA—CALUMET DISTRICT—Daniel D. Lynch, '23, 34 Midway Court Hammond. Ind. 
E.^STERX I.\DL\X.-^—William F. Craig, '29, 
Station WLBQ, Muncie (Muncie area) 
FOET WAYNE—Bernard T. Keams, '29, 903 
Pasadena Drive 
INDIANAPOLIS — G, Don Sullivan, ex. '24. 105 S. Meridian St . Room 430. 
MICHIG.-\N CITY-Hugh L. Burns, '39, Slop 
18, Long Beach, Ind. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—Jerome J. Croivley, '31, 
315 LaMonte Terrace, South Bend, Ind. 
TRI-STATE (Ky., Ind. and III.)—Paul C. Thole, ex. '35, Hulman Bldg., 1011, 4lh & Syca­more, £\'ans\-iUe IS, Ind. 
WABASH VALLEY — William J. Schrader. 
ex. '33, 824 North 10th St . Lafayette. Ind. 
IOWA—DES ifOI.VES—George J. Pflanz, m , ex. '43, 604 Insurance Exchange Bldg. 
DUBUQUE>—Louis F. Fautsch. '35. 1015 S. 
Grandview. 
SIOUX CITY—Robert A. Manning, '36, 271!) 
Nebraska S t (key man) 
TEI.<HTIES—Alfred T. Erskine, Jr.. '37, 712 Grand Court Davenport, Iowa. (Davenport-Rock Island-Hotine area) 

KANSAS — E.ASTERN — Joseph J. Dawes, '26, 519 Ohio, Leavenworth. 
KENTUCKY—Charles G. Morrow, '38, 419 Mc-Cready Ave., Louisx-illc 6, Kentucky. 
LOUISIANA—NEW ORLEANS—Jules K. de la Vergne, '38, 5811 Hurst 
NORTHERN—James R. Nowery, '29. P.O. 
Box 1545, Shreveport 94 (Shreveport area) 
SIARYLAND —BALTUIORE—Dr. Roy O. Sehoiz. '35, 1529 Pentridge Road. 
MASSACHUSETTS—BOSTON—John V. Hormn, '30. Costello. Moran" & Mahan. 31 State S t 
.MICHIGAN—BEEEIEN COUNTY — WiUimm H. Downey, '28. 60 N. S t Joseph Ave., NUei (Niles-St Joseph-Benton Harbor area) 
BLUE WATEE DISTRICT—William L. '^1 ­son. '42, P.O. Box 295, Port Hnron (Port 
• Huron area) 
CENTRAL—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, 'IS. 828 
N. Logan St , Lansing (Lansins area) 
DETROIT—.-^dclbert C. Baur, Jr., '36, 17365 Parkside, Dctroit'21, Mich. 
GRAND RAPIDS and WESTERN MICHI­GAN—Robert N. Alt e-x. '29. 901 Plymouth Rd.. S.E. 
HIAWATHALAND—Matt N. Smith, ex. '86. Escanaba Natl. Bk., Escanaba, Midi. 
IRON RANGE—Robert T. O'Callaghan. ex. '45, 635 McLcod Ave., Ironwood. Mich. 
SAGINAW VALLEY —Joseph C. Goddeyne, 
•11, 2275 Carrol Ed., Bay City, Mich, (^i ­naw area) 
MNNESOTA—TWIN CITIES—Paul H. Castner, '23. 1305 W. Arlington Ave., St St Paul 4. Minn. 
DULUTH-SUPEnilOE-Wm. E. Colter, Jr.. 
•41. 1929 E. Superior St.. Duluth. Minn. 
SnSSOURI—KANSAS CITY (Mo. and Kans.)— Joseph M. Van Dyke. e-x. '44. 4642 Pennsyl­vania, Kansas City 2. Mo. 
ST. LOUIS—Fred S. McNeill, '36, 4610 Pen­rose, 
MONTANA—Bernard Grainey, '43, 801 12th Ave., Helena. 
NEBRASKA—Eugene F. Milbourn, ex. '39, 4431 (iiss St., Omaha, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY—CENTRAL —Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy (Perth Amboy area) 
NEW JERSEY — Ger\-ase K. Froelich, '27, 
Ingraham PI., Xcw-arfc 8. (Newark area) 
NEW YORK-BUFFALO—John L. Hoelscher, '42. 174 Crosby Blvd.. Eggertsville. CAPITAL DISTEICrr — James J. Drislane, '38, 75 State St, Albany, N. T. 
CENTRAL—John E. Mc-\ulifre, '39, 941 Turtle 
St., Syracuse 8, N. Y. 
MOHAWK VALLEY—Dr. Francis A. Marino, 
'37, 903 Mohawk St., Utica, N. Y. 
NEW YORK CITY—John A. Hoyt Jr., '33, 
Gillespie & O'Connor. 20 Vesey S t 
NORTHERN—Judge Cornelius J. Cxasf, '30. 
12 Park St , Malone (Malone area) 
ROCHESTER—William R. Bell, '25, 95 Ames 
St 
SCHENECTADY-John F. Hurley, "37; 83 
Western Parkway, Schenectady. 
TRIPLE CITIES—James H. Hogan, '34, 42 Oak St, Binghamton. (Binghamton-Johnson City area) 
OHIO-AKEON —Paul A. Bcrtsch, '29, 763 S. High. 
CANTON—William H. Belden, '36, 305 22nd 
St, N.W. 
CENTRAL—Dr. Thomas M. Hughes, '38, 481 
E. Town St . Columbus 13. 
CINCINNATI—Robert J. Leonard, '41, 2504 
Carew Tower. 
CLEVELAND—Francis M. Payne. Jr., '29, 
27870 Gilchrist Dr.. Euclid. Ohio. 
DAYTON—E. William Hoyne, '42, 20S Salem 
Avenue 
HAMILTON—Judge Harry F. Walsh. '31. 
Municipal Court 
OHIO VALLEY—William J. Yaeger. '42.156 
S. Park St. 'ftTieeling, W. Va. (Bellaire-Wheeling area) 
SANDUSKY—Alfred A. Schnurr, Jr., '23. 
So. Columbus Ave.. Sandusky, Q, 
TIFFIN—Fred J, Wagner, '29, 84'/4 S. Wash­
ington S t TOLEDO—John R. Malone, '42, 4805 Summit St 
YOUNGSTOWN—Clarence T. Sheehan. '40, llie "Vindicator." 

OKLAHOMA—TULS.\—Carl J. Senger, '37, 1329 North Boston. 
OKLAHOMA CITY—Haskell Askew, '31, 1000 Perrine Bldg. 

OREGON—Edw-ard J. Sandstrom, '39, Prof, of Business .Admin., Univ. of Portland, Portland. 
PENNSYLVANIA—EASTEEN—Leo E. Melntyre, '28, 3004 Turner St , Allentown (Allentown-Bethlehem area) 
EEIE—Joseph C. Barber, '36. 705 Ariel Bldg. 
HARRISBURG—Edward R. Eckenrode, Jr., '44, 2929 North 2nd S t 
MONONGAHELA VALLEY — Edward J. Dean, '28, 11 Linden Ave., Monessen, Fa. (Monessen area) 
PHIL.ADELPHI.A—John H. Neeson, Jr., '35, 37 Highland Ave. Cynw7d, Pa. 
SCEANTON —Louis J. Finske, '19, Gravel Pond No. 2. Clarks Summit Pa. 
WESTERN—J. Vincent Burke, Jr., '33, 1100 Peoples Bank Bldg., Pittsburgh 22, Pa. 
WILKES-BARRE—Edw-ard J. Rowan, '35, 34 
W. North St 
WILLIAMSPOET—Frank C Hayes. '27, 820 Erie Ave.. Eenovo. Pa. 

RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS— 
J. Clement Grimes, e-\. '29, 384 River Ave., ProWdence, R. I. 

TENNESSEE—MEMPHIS—Phil i L Canalc, Jr., 
•40. 1323 Commerce Title Bldg. 
NASHVILLE—W. Kennedy Jones, '30, P.O. Box 773 

TEXAS — DALLAS — Edmond R. Haggar. 'SS, 6113 Lemmon Ave., Dallas. T<ac. 
HOUSTON-Thomas A. Standish, '35, 2106 Swift 
SAN ANTONIO—Leonard M. Hess, •25, 201 Stanford Dr. 

JTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, "37, 1017 Keams Bldg., Salt Lake City 
IRGINIA-Dr. Charles R. Riley. '39, 3508 Sem­inary Ave., Eichmond 22. 
7ASHINGTON—WESTERN—John P. English, '33, 
J. P. English Steel Co., 465 E. 15th St., Tacoma. 

SPOKANE—Bernard J. Lenoue, '31. 424 E. Sinto Ave. WEST VIRGINIA—•William J. Kenney. '34. 714 Lee St . Charleston. 
WISCONSIN—GEEEN BAY—Harold L. Londo, '24, Sup't, Green Bay Water Dept 
FOX RIVER VALLEY—William H. Fieweger, 
'36, 419 Na>mut St., Menasha, Wis. 
LA CROSSE—Frederick R. Funk, '46, 208 
South 15th S t 
inLWAUKEE-Donald T. Gottschalk, ex. '41, 
213 W. Wisconsin Ave. 
SOUTH CENTRAL —John W. Roach. '25. 
2115 Van Hise Ave., Madison (Madison area) 

FOREIGN CXUBS 
BENGAL. INDIA—Rev. John W. Kane. '24, 
(key man) Dacca, East Bengal. 
CUBA—Cniristopher C. Fitzgerald. '94 (key man). La Metropolitana (711), Habana. HAWAII—Thomas W. Flynn. Jr., '33. 5317 Opihi St , Honolulu, T.H. 
MANILA—Anthony F. Gonzales. '25 (key man). The Insular Life Assurance Co., Ltd.. Insular Life Bldg. 
PANAMA—Wiliiam J. Sheridan. '38. Box 
605. Aneon. Canal Zone. 
PUEaiTO 'RICO—Paul F. McManus. '34 (key man). B & JI Products Company. Box 2695. San Juan. 


i«The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second dass matter Octo­ber 1, 1933, at the Postotlicc, Xo.re Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council. 
Jdmes E. Aimsfarong, '25. Editor: William R. Dooley, '26. Mcmoging Editor 
Vol. 26 NOVEMBER-DECEMBEB. 1948 No. 6 
Enrollment Reac 
New Record; 

With enrollment reaching a new high of 5,090 students, the 1948-49 schoolycar offi­cially got under way on Sept. 16 following 
^ three days of registration. 
The current enrollment exceeds by 323 the former top figure of 4,767, set a year ago. But a midyear graduation class of more than 400 will materially reduce the student population at the start of the second semes­ter in February. (Because the midyear grad­uates are so numerous. Commencement ceremonies for them will be conducted on Saturday and Sunday, Jan. 29 and 30.) 
Each of the 48 states, the District of Co­lumbia, Puerto Rico and six foreign coun­tries arc represented in the class of approxi­mately 1,279 freshmen who began the year Significant of the rapidly changing times is the fact that only slightly more than 10 per cent of the new class are veterans of World War II. (The whole student body is one-half veteran.) 
Again this year, registration was carried on in the wide spaces of the Drill Hall on the campus, and with wonderfully simpli­
% ficd and coordinated mechanics of operation. Gone almost completely are one-after-anoth­cr long lines of enrollment typical of earlier years. Instead, some students were able this year to complete their entire registration procedure in five minutes; many others took only a little longer. 
Credit for the new system goes largely this year to Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., direc­tor of studies, and to Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., his assistant. Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C., now dean of Kings College, Wilkes-Barrc, Pa., assistant director of studies at Notre Dame for several years, worked with Father Kenna a year ago in installing the new registration procedure. 
Identification pictures of all new students were, again this year, taken in the Drill Hall on registration days. University regula­tions require that all students carry "I.D. cards" for identification purposes and to provide admittance to athletic contests. 
^ ^ With members of the Student Council, 

hes 5,090 for 1,279 Freshmen 
giving magnificent aid, the new students were this year introduced to Notre Dame more quickly, warmly and completely than ever before. During registration, informa­tion desks were set up at strategic spots on the campus and in the freshman residence halls, and tours of the campus were con­ducted at appointed hours for freshmen and their families. This latter undertaking prov­ed to be singularly successful. It was carried out with the generous aid of many members of the faculty and the administration staff. 
The huge new class became acquainted with Washington Hall on Monday evening, Sept. 13, when they were officially greeted by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., presi­dent, and by Dean Lawrence H. Baldinger of the College of Science. The traditional Knute Rocknc film followed. 
On Tuesday, most of the freshmen began a series of aptitude and placement tests given under the direction of Edward R. Quinn, '28, head of the University's testing division. Started last year, this testing program for freshmen was greatly extended this year. Two programs of orientation talks followed for freshmen on Tuesday evening. And on Wednesday evening, preceding the start of classes Thursday morning, the new men got together for a cokes-and-doughnuts mixer in the Gym. Entertainment, cheers, talks by members of the Monogram Club and gath­erings by states added up to a highly re­garded session. 
All the new Notre Dame men, including the sizable group who had to stay in the Oliver Hotel for a while—until room condi­tions became stabilized on the campus—^were ready to take over. 
Educators from many parts of the United States and from Canada, South America and Europe were among 47 new teachers 
^r Blue Circle and Young Christian Students Upward and onward! Father Swoanoy ahowm •om* ftaAmmx tii* inaid* of 111* dom*. 
Graduate students at Notre Dame were awarded seven o! a total o! 44 fellowsliips made avoiloble nationally for the current schoolyear by the Atomic Energy Commusion. Of these seven, three are in chemistry, three in physics and one in mothematici. The recipients are, leit to right, Frank C. Fatora, Derry, Pa., Eugene E. Voiland, New Carlisle, Ind., John F. Marshall. South Bend: Rev. Philip S. Moore. C.S.C.. dean of the Graduote School: Edwin C. Mertz, South Bend. Edwin J. Schillinger. Jr., South Bend, Eligius Wolicki. Buffalo, N. Y., and Raimond Stnifcle. South Bend. 
added to the faculty for the 1948-49 school­}ear. 
Twenty-seven of the total were added in the College of Arts and Letters, eight in the College of Science, five in the College of Engineering, three in the College of Law and two in the College of Commerce. Two others have joined the staff of the Mediaev­al Institute. 
The appointments are: College of Arts and Letters, Dr. James F. -Anderson, Dover, Del., from the facultj- of Loyola University, Chicago, assistant .professor of philosophy; James Binder, Reading, Pa., from the high­er studies faculty of Johns Hopkins Univer­sity, Baltimore, Md., instructor of English; Gerard M. Brannon, Manila, P. I., from the faculty of Boston College, Boston, Mass., in­structor of economics; Dr. Elie Denissoff, St. Petersburg, Russia, associate professor of philosophy; Francis X. Duggan, Philadel­phia, Pa., a 1948 graduate of Notre Dame, instructor of English; Thomas A. Dunlea, Somerville, Mass., from the faculty of Loyo­la University, Chicago, instructor of history. 

Also: Dr. Selby Hannsen, Kansas City, Mo., from the facultj- of the University of Virginia, assistant professor of English; Don­ald F. Heany, Washington, from the facul­ty of Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., instructor of economics; Dr. Herbert L. Johnston, Montreal, Canada, from the facul­ty of St. Dunston College, Charlottestown, Prince Edward Island, assistant professor of philosophy; John J. Kane, Philadelphia, Pa., from the faculty of St. Joseph's College, in­structor in sociology; James A. Llorens, Bar­celona, Spain, from the faculty of Columbia College, assistant professor of histor)-; Thom­as V. Lower)', Providence, R. I., who last year sen-ed as a teaching fellow at Notre Dame, instructor in English. 
Also: Dr. Charles E. Pamell, Seneca, Kans., from the faculty of Yale University, New Haven, Conn., assistant professor of modem languages; Dr. Richard J. Thomp­son, Bowmanville, Ontario, from the facul­ty of the University of Detroit, Mich., as­sistant professor of philosophy; Hugh Bums, Michigan City, Ind., trainer of athletic teams at Notre Dame, instructor in physical educa­tion; Rev. James P. Smyth, Liverpool, Eng­land, from the Youth Leader Center in Liverpool, istnictor in religion; Rev. F. G. Connolly, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, from the faculty of St. Joseph's Seminary in Ed­monton, instructor in religion. 
Also: Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C, as­sistant professor of economics, who returns after a leave of absence to the University of Chicago; Dr. John J. Fitzgerald, associate professor of philosophy, who returns after a leave of absence to the University of Lou­\'ain in Belgium; Rufus W. Rauch, professor of English, who returns after a leave of ab­sence to St. John's College, Annapolis, Md.; Rev. Paul C. Bailey, C.S.C, who just re­ceived his Master of Arts degree at Catho­lic University of America, Washington, D.C., instructor in religion; Rev. William A. Bot­zum, C.S.C, who just received his Ph.D, degree at the University of Chicago, instruc­tor in philosophy. 
And: Rev. Lawrence G. BroestI, C.S.C, who took his Master of Arts degree from Catholic University, instructor in German; Rev. James d'Autremont, C.S.C, from the faculty at St. George's College in Santiago, The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Chile, instructor in English; Brother Louis Galvez, of Cucnca, Ecuador, instructor in modem languages; Rev. Thomas McDon- g^ agh, C.S.C, who returned from study at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, instructor of economics; and Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C, of the Holy Cross mission band, in­structor in modem languages. 
College of Science: Ernest Ludwig Eliel, Cologne, Germany, from the faculty of the University of Illinois, Champaign, instructor in chemistr)'; Dr. David L. Falkoff, Roches­ter, N. Y., from the faculty of the University of Michigan, Ann -Arbor, assistant professor of physics; Dr. John L. Magee, a native of Louisiana, fellow of the National Research Council, assistant professor of chemistry; Dr. James V. Quagliano, Brooklyn, N. Y., from the facult>- of the University of Illinois, as­sistant professor of chemistry; Dr. Arthur L. Schipper, Maquoketa, la., from the faculty of the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, assistant professor of bioIog>-; Dr. Norbert J. Scully, Chicago, from the faculty of the University of Chicago, assistant pro­fessor of biology; Dr. Erhard Winkler, Vien­na, Austria, scientific assistant for technical .«. geology at the Technical Academy in Vien-• na, instructor of geolog>'; Rev. Clctus S. Bachofer, C.S.C, who received his Ph.D. degree at the University of Chicago recently, instructor in biology; and Dr. Richard R. Otter, Evanston, 111., from the faculty at In­diana University, Bloomington, assistant pro­fessor of mathematics. 
College of Engineering: Francis M. Koba­>-ashi, Seattle, Wash., who received a mas­ter's degree in engineering mechanics at Notre Dame in June, instructor in engineer­ing mechanics; Dr. Steponas Kolupaila, Latvia, from the faculty of the University of Kempton, instmctor of civil engineering; 
R. J. Malone, Chicago, from the faculty at Northwestern University, Evanston, 111., as­sistant professor of electrical engineering; Robert G. Rose, Milwaukee, Wis., who stud­ied last year at Notre Dame, instructor in engineering mechanics; James A. Tankersley, Frankfort, Ind., from the faculty of the Uni­versity of Florida, Gainesville, assistant pro-^\ fcssor of mechanical engineering. 
College of Commerce: Louis L. Anderson, Paducah, Ky., South Bend attorney, instruc­tor in business administration; George A. Strong, Oklahoma City, Okla., from the fac­ulty of the University of Califomia, Berke­ley, instructor in business administration; and Louis H. Hansman, Carroll, la., instruc­tor of marketing. 
College of Law: Dr. Edward F. Barrett, Hazleton, Pa., from the faculty of Fordham University, New York, assistant professor of law; and Jack R. Miller, Chicago, from the faculty of George Washington University, Washington, assistant professor of law. 
Mediaeval Institute: Rev. Peter O'Reilly, Chicago, research fellow in the Mediaeval Institute and part-time instructor in philoso­phy, and Rev. Asztrik Gabriel, O.Praem., of Pics, Hungary, from the faculty of the Uni­versity of Budapest, professor in the Mediae­val Institute. fi ' 
What he described as "the deliberate ex-\ Volume 26, No. 6, Nov.-Dec, 1948 
ploitation of the public school system at the expense of the private, religious school" was 

ffH. deplored on Sept. 19 by Father John Cava­naugh, president, in an address at the sol­emn opening of the schoolyear at Notre Dame. 
This, he charged, is the "natural corollary of the campaign to exclude God and reli­gion from American life." 
"Skillfully the impression is given," he said, "that the public school system was established by the founding fathers in 1776, with the Declaration of Independence; that all great Americans worth mentioning have been products of the public school system; that the philosophy of Americanism in its pristine vitality and beauty is preserved and communicated chiefly in the public schools; that in the public schools young men and women are taught to look with singular re­spect to the American flag, to sing the patri­otic songs, and to risk their lives in time of national danger with special abandon; that, in other words, the public school system is the exclusive and necessary melting pot of the races and colors and creeds that make 
W up American life." 
Father Cavanaugh emphasized that he was not attacking the public school system itself, but only "those who would pervert their nature and use support of the public schools as an argument against the support of private schools." 
"All of this propaganda might be toler­able," he declared, "if it were not intended to discredit private, religious education; to make its patriotism suspect and open to question the value of the contribution that private, religious education makes to the so­ciety of which it is a part." 
Pointing out that for the first seventy years of the American Republic there were no public schools in this country. Father Cavanaugh stated that Washington, Jeffer­son, Madison, the Adamses, Franklin, Car­roll and other great American patriots of that period were graduates of private, reli­gious schools. The first public schools were not established in the United States until the 1840's, he added. 
"Who communicated the philosophy of Americanism in the interval, if not the pri­vate, religious schools?" he asked. 
"Nevertheless, our system of public in­struction is pointed out as the continuing channel of the American government, al­though how this thesis can be maintained is beyond me. The Declaration of Indepen­dence states categorically that the existence of God, the Creator, is a necessary presup­position of our form of government. Every state constitution and several decisions of the Supreme Court emphasize the religious nature of the philosophy of American gov­ernment. I have no doubt that many teach­ers in our public school system, even after the Supreme Court decision in the McCol­lum case, will still point out the religious nature of American government, but they will be breaking the law if they persist in such teaching." 
Father Cavanaugh said he did not ques­tion the patriotism of public school students and graduates, but he wanted to emphasize the "love of country is certainly no less a shining virtue among the students of our private, religious schools." 
"Nor, do I like to see the public school system held up as the only melting pot in ."Vraerica. If the record means anything, the work of merging the different races and creeds goes on so effectively in the private schools, that in war and peace the patriotism of private school students and graduates is second to none. The last war and the wars before proved conclusively that private school products melted easily into the Ma­rines, and the Army and Navy; the records of peace show the products of private schools being absorbed as easily into the professions and business and civil life as the products of the public schools. 
"It seems quite clear, then, that although there may be justification for supporting the public school system by the taxes of this country, that justifiaction is not in the claim that the public schools arc the sole melting pot, the exclusive cradle of American patri­otism and the purveyor of the American philosophy of government. 
"Many modem voices would have us think that a family has a duty to send its children to a public school, and that only by a kind of privilege or dispensation may it commit them to a private, religious school. I should like it known that an integral part of the American freedom is the freedom of the family to select the school to which its chil­dren are to be sent. The state can justly make demands only when the family fails to provide its children the kind of education which will make good American citizens. 
".. . I always smile at the reluctance of some in this country to give free text books or rides in school busses to Catholic boys and girls. Justice demands that Catho­lics be freed from double taxation, or that they receive some consideration for the funds they pour in as taxes to support public edu­cation. Against this contention it is some­times argued that there is no practical way of excluding from taxation the Catholics and Lutherans and Episcopalians who oper­ate their own school systems. Well, a practi­cal way is found through taxation of gasa­line to make those who use our highways pay for their construction and maintenance. I think a way can be found if this problem is honestly understood :and considered in a spirit of fairness. 
"If the good of the country demands the exclusive development of the public school system with funds provided by taxing all the citizens, if public education must be non­religious, as the Supreme Court requires, then the further secularization of America must follow as night follows day. Those who believe that American life must never be completely secularized, that we need to work back in the other direction to the religious faith of our fathers, to the union of every­day affairs with morality and religion must elect to provide private, religious schools." 
The testing program for ireshmen was much enlarged this year. Freshmen get manr a test bat also (at nmcer) cokes and doughnata. 
*JUe 
Edgar Kobak, president of the Mutual Broadcasting Company, presided at the meeting of the Council. 
A CERTIFICATE OF MERIT was pre­sented on OcL 9 to Dr. Charles C. Price, 
head of the Department of Chemistry, 


UNIVERSITY 
By EDWABD A. nSCHEH, '37 
TOP LABOR LEADERS William Green, president of the A. F. of L. and Philip Mur­ray, president of the CIO, accepted appoint­ments as members of the Ad\nsor>- Council of the College of Commerce. The announce­ment was made when the Council met here Sept. 25, 26. Their acceptances bring the membership of the council to 31. The group was organized early in the year to establish closer ties between the College of Commerce and business, industr>-, and labor. 
NEW HEAD of the Department of Re­ligion is the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
C.S.C. He succeeds the Rev. Roland G. Simonitsch. C.S.C., who has been trans­ferred to Holy Cross College, Washing­ton. D. C. In addition to teaching at Holy Cross, Father Simonitsch will study at Catholic University of America. 
AN EIGHT-POINT PROGRAM to help achieve industrial peace betiveen labor and management was proposed by Prof. John 
H. Shcehan, head of the Department of Economics, at a meeting of the Notre Dame Club of the Moha%vk Valley, Utica, N. Y. 
The proposals were: 1) \ formally-organized, sincerely operated labor relations division for each large business. 2) Better-trained union personnel for company rela­tions work. 3) Elimination by both manage­ment and labor of "yes" men to improve "critical judgment of industrial relations matters." 4.) Elimination of management and labor "agitators" who specialize in pre­senting biased wewpoints. 5.) More ade­quate communications and contacts between top level and lower level representatives in both management and labor. 6.) Increased educational activities carried on sinceriy and efficiently by both sides to instruct, in­form, and explain. 7.) A simplified, just, more understandable basic wage system. 8.) Increased non-financial rewards and recog­nition for workers. 
THE TENTH ANNIVERSARY of Ivotre Dame's REVIEW OF POLITICS was ob­served in October with a special omii­veisory edition. Under the editorship of Dr. Waldemar Gurian, the quarterly has gained ^vorld prominence. It 'was founded to "revive the Aristotelian con­ception of politics, a sovereign concep­tion that embraced everything, every interest, every event, every idea affect­ing the life of man in the community." 


TODAY 
Among the authorities who have ap­peared in the magazine are lacques Maritain, Don Luigi Sturzo, Mortimer Adier, Ferdinand Hermens, lohn U. Neff, and Hans Kohn. 
A NEW SCIENCE BUILDING to house the departments of physics, chemistry, and mathematics is in the planning stage at No­tre Dame. The announcement was made when the Universit>-'s Ad\'isory Council on Science and Engineering met here October 9, 10. 
The Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.G., dean of the Graduate School, told the Council that research is being carried on here in meat destructive parasites, plant growth, chemotherapeutic agents for cancer, anti­malarial drugs, atomic energy and radio­active substances, electronics, synthetic rub­bers and plastics, germ-free life, nutrition, instrumentation, aircraft structures, commu­nications, electro-plating, metals and alloys. 
Dean Karl Schoenherr, of the College of Engineering, told of proposed installation of a small towing tank, a water tunnel, and other fluid mechanics equipment for gradu­ate research. 
for his important scientific research in World War Q. The Armed Forces were represented in the ceremony held on the campus by Major General Roderick 
B. Allen, Fort Knox, Ey_- Rear Admiral Lucien M. Grant, and Brigadier General 
S. B. Brentnall, both of Dayton, O. 
Dr. Price came to Notre Dame in 1945 from the University of Illinois, where he had attained distinction in research in the field of high polymer chemistry. In 1946 he received the American Chem­ical Society's award to the outstanding chemist under the age of 35. 
During the war. Dr. Price devoted his time largely to direction of research projects for the National Defense Re­search Committee, the Chemical War­fare Service and the Committee on Med­ical Research. He was chairman of the Gibson Island Polymer Conference in 1947. and has served as constUtant to the Hercules Power Co., the Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., the Eli Lilly Co., and the Coca-Cola Co. 

JUSTICE may no longer be definable in the vocabulary of the average law)-cr. Dr. Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the College of Law, told the American Judicature So­ciety of the American Bar Association at a meeting in Seattle, Wash. 
"Our jurisprudence is deeply rooted in religion," he said, "and its current miscar-
The site for the new Science BoildiBg (to the north of the present Chemistry Building) is marked off as the Advisory Conncjl on Engineering and Science meets at Noti* Dome on Oct 9 and 10. 
Volume 26, No. 6, Nov.-Dec, 1948 
Dr. Donald B. Prentice, former president of Rose Polytechnic Institute, presented the charter when Sigma Xi, scientific organization, was established at Notre Dcone. Follow­ing the presentation Dr. Harold C. Urey, Nobel Prize wiimer and professor of chemistry in the Institute for Nuclear Studies, University of Chicago, gave an address. In the picture, left to right, are Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., director of studies. Dr. Prentice. Dr. Milion Burton. Notre Dame professor of chemistry and local chairman of Sigma £ . Rev. John H. Murphy, CS.Cu vice-president. Dr. Urey, and Rev. Phiiip 
S. Moore. C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School. 
riages both in principle and practice are research here in cooperation with the traceable to a perverted modern determin-U. S. Public Heolth Service. nation to regard our legal system as a strict­ly secular instrument for the achievement of purely secular ends." 
MID-YEAR COMMENCEMENT EX­ERCISES wU be held Jan. 30. More than 
DR. ALEX TODD, professor of chemis­tr)' at Cambridge University in England, de­livered the 1948 Julius A. Nieuwland Memorial Lectures Oct. 22, 25, and 27 at Notre Dame. The lectures are presented an­nually by men outstanding in chemistry and botany. 
SCIENTISTS on the campus have es­tablished a Notre Dame Club of Sigma XL National Scientific Society. Dr. Mil­ton Burton, professor of chemistry, is chairman of the local group. 
THE REV. GERALD B. PHEL.\N, Di­rector of the Medieval Institute, has been reelected to the board of directors of the Conference on Science, Philosophy and Re­ligion in Their Relations to the Democratic Way of Life. The Conference, a national organization of scholars, seeks to integrate science, philosophy, and religion insofar as they affect the basic theories of democracy. 
DR. KENNETH N. CAMPBEU, profes­sor of chemistry, has been chosen chair­man-elect of the medicinal chemistry division of the American Chemical So­dty. This was in recognition of Prof. 
400 students will be eligible for degrees at that time. Approximately 600 will receive degrees in June. 
The winter Commencement exercises will begin Jan. 29 with a Solemn Mass, a break­fast for the seniors, a concert and an ad­ministration reception for graduates and their parents. The program on Jan. 30 will open with a Solemn Pontifical Baccalaureate Mass in the morning and a conferring of de­grees and Conunencement address in the afternoon. 
THE BEV. WnUAM F. CDNNOfGHlUC CS. C pcofesMT oi edncatioB. ottoidad the Catholic Confederotion' of bitnr-Jbnericon Edncotion in LaPat, BeKvia, Senth America. Ha represenlecl Netra Dome and the National Catholic Ednctr­tion'Association. 
THE SEVENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSA­RY of the founding of the Department of Civil Engineering is being observed at No­tre Dame this year. The department has grown from one professor and a handful of students. 
Prof. Arthur J. Stacc, who had previously 
taught surveying, Greek and English, be­
came first professor of civil engineering here 
in 1873. One student, Cassius M. Proctor 
of Elkhart, Ind., was in the department's 
first graduating class in 1875. During the 
next nine years only two more degrees in civil engineering were granted. 
Campbell's extensive work in the field General William T. Sherman, lost at Noire Dam* far ceomMttcemmit ia IMS, fa bock of medicinal chemistry. During World the campus in a painting donated to the Unhranity by hfa giaaddanglitar. 16 M EI< War n. he cooperated with the govern­Sherman Fitch of New York City. Esaniaiiig tha pcdatiiig above fa Bar. ment in a search for more effective anti-McAvoy. C.S.C. director oi the Univaiaitr AiehiTaa. Iba wocfc wiB ba added to molarial drugs. He has continued his Archives' growing coUactioB cl SbanBonia. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Ending a Chapter---Beginnins a Book^ 
Hany G. Hogan Addresses a Message to the Members of the Alumni Association as His Term of Office Nears Its Qose; The Message Has a Deep Significance for Notre Dame 
"On January 1, or shortly thereafter at the meeting of the Alumni Board, I shall terminate my two terms as president of the Alumni Association. It has been a tribute from my fellow alumni which I respect sin­cerely, and which I have tried to repay with the creation among alumni every^vhere of a program and a spirit and a record of achievement. 
"I feel that I am personally ending a chapter, a rich one for me. Many causes and many organizations have enlisted my volunteer time. But I have found in working for Notre Dame a spiritual motivation that has brought rewards beyond the usual sat­isfaction of civic or social group work. It has been one of the most convincing e\'i­dences of the permanence of Notre Dame's progress to find this feeling shared by hun­dreds of others with similar e-Npcrience. 
The Foundation 
"But if I am ending a chapter as presi­dent of the Alumni .Association, I feel that in the University of Notre Dame Foundation we have begun a book, ultimately a great 

book. 
"When I took office in January, 1947, the Alumni Association was pursuing a fine program of spiritual, fraternal, cultural, in­tellectual and social activity. And in the An­nual Alumni Fund it was building annually a substantial contribution to Notre Dame. 
"The temptation was to take this pre­pared formula as it stood, give it a blessing, and bask in the reflected glow. 
"But in going over the Notre Dame situa­tion with Father John Cavanaugh, I was appalled as a business man to discover the thin economic ice on which the University stood, and the economic barriers that stood in the way of its realization of opportuni­ties never before presented. Father Cava­naugh's own training had brought to him a quick analysis of his plight as president. 
"Resisting the temptation of the easy way. 


Science Jjulldln^ J^Unnea for fg^g 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, re­cently announced that plans have been formulated for the construc­tion of a new Science Building in 1949. 
Drawings are being made for this building; the cost is estimated to be about $1,750,000. It will be placed adjoining the Chemistry Building, and is to provide extra space for Chemistry, as well as new facilities for the Departments of Physics and Mathematics. The building will be of simple construction, and as inexpensive as is pK)s­sible in a structiure designed for modern scientific research laboratories. 
The University's lack of facilities for the students and research staffs in physics, chemistry and mathematics is critical. Unrestricted contributions to Notre Dame, in 1946 and 1947, have built up a fimd of $350,000 which the University has designated as the beginning of the Science Building Fund. Because of the extreme urgency of this need. Father Cavanaugh has asked the alumni and the members of the Notre Dame Foundation to make an all-out effort to raise $1,400,000 by the end of 1949 so that construction may begin. 
The present need is so critical that the University is faced with the choice of constructing new facilities or of cutting the enrollment by about 1,000 students in order to make room for research to be carried on. 
I felt then, as I feel now, that this is an 

era for asking, not for basking. 
"Notre Dame's alumni, performing a very creditable job within their own ranks through the Alumni Fund, were numerically limited, and economically limited, at least to the extent indicated by Notre Dame's opportunities. 
"Notre Dame's Department of Public Re­lations, had begun the slow and arduous task of building up the information and the good will and the subsequent support of non-alumni friends. These friends were be­coming invaluable and generous parts of the Notre Dame program, but again the im­mediate demands of opportunity indicated that the program in effect would not supply the numbers nor the amounts. 
"The answer, in the Spring of 1947, was a united, coordinated and expanded agency for bringing Notre Dame's opportunities to the immediate attention of all alumni, all friends, and more friends—the University of Notre Dame Foundation. 

Response Most Encouraging 

"Response from alumni and friends to the new Foundation was immediate and beyond our actual cvpectations. 
"Governors were appointed for each of the States and other Notre Dame areas of importance. 
"These Governors, working with the Foundation Office and Father Cavanaugh, set about the joint task of creating policies, and at the same time creating the essential working base of the Foundation, the City Committees. The 222 cities with Chairmen, and the 184 City Committees, consisting of alumni and non-alumni friends, aie eloquent tribute to the zeal and the success of the Governors. 
"More than 1,000 alumni and friends are now working in a national (even interna­tional) organization as volunteer sales and public relations representatives for Notre Dame. 
"The national scope of Notre Dame's alumni and friends, the cosmopolitan nature of its enrollment demanded such an organi­zation. And such an organization is a guar­antee of ultimate success. 

Alumni Can Contribute Nothing Greater 
"No program of the alumni—and other phases of the Association's program continue —no other program, I repeat, could do as much for Notre Dame. Nor, in fact, could any other program do as much for Notre Dame alumni, who will grow in individual Volume 26, No. 6, Nov.-Dec, 1948 
HABRY G. HOGAN 

stature as the University grows, in its pres­tige and in its service. 
"From the success of Notre Dame, through the Foundation, will stem all of the great services in the field of spiritual, cul­tural and fraternal activities that will mul­tiply the benefits to alumni. 
Objectives 

"You know the objectives. Notre Dame is faced with adequate provision for 1,500 present students in excess of the 3,200 pre­war enrollment for whom the present facili­ties were already inadequate. 
"There are replacements needed in the near future for some of the grand old build­ings that have served well but long—Sorin, St. Edward's, Washington Hall, the Admin­istration Building, for example, totalling more than 250 years of usage. 
"Probably the most immediate objective is a Science Building to house adequately the great work in chemistry, physics and 
^ mathematics which have accumulated great academic records of achievement and pres­tige, which have acquired much invaluable equipment, and whose classrooms and lab­oratories are crowded with the young men of science who can give to tomorrow's Amer­ica the men who can control science, to­gether with the moral responsibility that can control men. 
"There are many other opportunities. You will be told about them in detail as the Foundation prograim progresses. 
Endowment Is Sadly Lacking 

"Because Notre Dame has never seen fit to accumulate wealth, but has poured back into student facilities the fruits of its labors and sacrifices over the years, the University finds itself in the paradoxical position of a leading university in prestige and program, but a virtual tail-ender in the field of com­parative endowments, with only $3,891,638, 
^ ranking it in the lowest tenth of the lead-
W ing 100 colleges and the universities in America. 
"That is primarily why the double-edged era of rising costs and rising opportunities has brought the University to the position of requiring substantial outside aid to achieve its objectives. 

The Future 

"American thinking, as reflected in its spiritual, its political, its economic, and its social life, is rapidly being forced to turn to the fundamentals which have been an integral part of Notre Dame education since Father Edward Sorin brought the great principles of Christian education to the site of the University in 1842, and found with joy that these coincided with the funda­mental principles of the great democracy of his adoption. 
"Everything points to the increasing ur­gency of the type of education which No­tre Dame gives. 
"If we succeed, as we can and as we shall, in letting the world know that this is the type of education which Notre Dame gives, then we should be confident that the proper support to preserve the institution giving it will be forthcoming. 
"Men are making great sacrifices for less worthy causes. 
"The work has been a source of satisfac­tion to me. Your cooperation, coming from so many, convinces me that you have shared in this satisfaction. 
"The University is deeply appreciative of the loyal, understanding response. 
"None of us will be satisfied unless this first chapter of the Foundation grows into the ultimate great booh that will be the story of Notre Dame." 

yV^C^/q-
President of the Alumni Association 

Chemists Meet 

Frank Pollnow of Vestal Laboratories, St. Louis, was in charge of arrangements as chemists associated with Notre Dame met in the Jefferson Hotel, St. Louis, on Sept. 7 
in conjunction with the fall convention of the American Chemical Society. 
Those present included Dr. Charles G. Price, Dr. Kenenth N. Campbell, James O. Knobloch, Joseph Pappalardo and Robert 
H. Schuler of the University of Nbtie Dame, as well as Harry L. Wundcrly, Mr. Pollnow, Daniel J. Pflaum, Michael J. O'Connor, Fred C. Weber, J., James F. Kerwin Jo­seph A. Batscha, Rev. Bertin Ending, O.S3., William S. Calcott and Rev. J. S. McGrath, C.S.C., the last named from the University of Portland, in Oregon. 
Alumni Directory Delayed 
The proposed "Alumni Directory, for which alumni have sent in information to a very encouraging degree, has been tempor­arily delayed by two major factors. 
One is the problem of finding a printer to consider the project within a desirable time limit (four or more months was the basic estimate). 
The second is the cost element. Seventy-five hundred (7500) copies of the proposed Directory would cost, estimates indicated, some three dollars ($3) each. It was not in the original plan to sell or to ask for spe­cial contributions to defray this cost. Indi­cations of the desire for the Directory from individual alimuii do not warrant optimism in this regard, even if the decision were altered. 
The information sent in on the Directory cards is not a waste of time, effort or ex­pense. 
Conununity lists are being prepared from these records, copies of which will be typed for the Notre Dame Club Presidents and for the Foundation City Committees. 
These lists, carrying not only names, ad­dresses and classes, but business classifica­tion appreciate the responses of alumni to uable addition to present lists. 
The Alumni Association and the Foimda­tion appreciate the response of alumni to the request for information, which arc a major contribution to our permanent records under any cireuimstances. And these records will provide a short cut to preparation if printing conditions, including cost, alter in the near future in our favor. 
Your support in 1948 has been a source of great encouragement and help. Because of the fine purpose to which Notre Dame is dedicated, we know that Our Lady and Her Beloved Son will bring you the real joys of Christmas and the prospects of a truly Happy, New Year. 
N-
President of the University Director of tfie Notre Dame Foundation 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 





llie STUDENTS 
By MARTIN BROWNE 
The P. of D. Is Gone 
No student today undergoes the time-hallowed ordeal of answering a summons from the Prefect of Discipline. There is no Prefect of Discipline at Notre Dame! At the opening of the fall term. Rev. John J. Cav­anaugh, C.S.C, announced the abolishment of this post. In its place, a newly organized Department of Student Welfare has been set up, with Rev. Joseph K. Kchoe, C.S.C, former Prefect of Discipline, as its director. The physical, religious, recreational and general welfare of both undergraduate and graduate students are his concern. Assisting him. Rev. Joseph D. Barr>-, C.S.C, former Director of Student Acti^ties, will be charg­ed with enforcement of Universitj- regula­tions. {Everything can't go—but it does sound better!) 
Tied in with the above department, the Committee on Student Entertainment seeks to keep the boys so busy and diverted as to eliminate disciplinarj' problems. Besides Father Kehoe, it includes Prof. William J. Elsen of the Department of Speech, who will direct the University Theatre, Prof. Daniel S. Pedtke, Glee Club director. Prof. 
H. Lee Hope, Director of the Band, and Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C, registrar. 



TODAY 
who continues direction of the Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series. All give e\^­dence of zealous activit)-. 
» » » 
But Drama Comes Back 
Drama tradition at Notre Dame is to be revived with Professor Elsen's organization of the University Theatre. (Who of the latter-day turbulent t%venties can foi^t The Taming of the Shrew?) Prof. Cecil Birder's outstanding Gilbert and Sullivan produc­tions, and the student musicals written and produced by Ed Cashman, '48, have provid­ed cvcellcnt outlets for student actors with musical inclinations. But not much straight dra>Tna! The opening of the three-act com­edy The Milky Way, on Nov. 28, wiU re-Wve this art, and will presage the expected establishment of a Workshop Theatre. 


« « « 

The Notre Dame Glee Club joined voices with that of St. Mary's on Oct. 24 and 25 to present "The Annunciation Mystery," an interpretation of the Annunciation adapted for chorus and organ by Rev. John Gallagher, C.S.C, of the Department of Music, from a thirteenth century text. This is a concert version of the "chanted play," used in the Middle Ages to precede the Sacrifice of the 
PBOFESSOH ELSEN —Buns the Show 

Mass on special occasions. Thus, even ven­erable Washington Hall witnessed something new, for nothing of the kind had ever be­fore been presented at the University. 
Alumni in and around Aurora and Elgin, 111., will be interested to learn that the Glee Club will give concerts in those cities on Dec. 10 and 11 respectively. 
Freshmen Band Together 
Continuing its practice of providing tune­ful and humorous entertainment between halves at the football games, Mr. Hope's band is this year presenting a series of Mu­sical Murals. The marching band is now comprised of 110 men. An innovation is the new and sprightly 50-piece freshman band, a separate unit, which plays at all pre­game pep rallies. 
Who can forget his student trips? Cer­tainly none of those who made this year's super-trip to Baltimore and Washington! In addition to the Navy game, it included t^vo nights at Washington's Annapolis Hotel and a gala Student Relief Dance at the Uline Arena. Members of the Washington-Mary­land-Virginia Club of Notre Dame, hosts for the dance, had previously set up an effi­cient date bureau which provided glamor­ous gals from Trinity, Georgetown Visita­tion and Dumbarton colleges. Larry Clin­ton and his band provided the music. 
.* * * 

Wonted: $500,000 
Notre Dame's participation in the Foreign Student Relief Program was initiated with this post-Navy game dance. Louis J. Bums, Jr., a senior in the University, has been elected national chairman of the drive, and heads committees from 151 member colleges of the National Federation of Catholic Col­lege Students. A national goal of $500,000 has been set ($153,000 was raised last year with Notre Dame contributing five times more than any other college—$35,000). Jo­
father WUliam McAuliife, CS.C. directs St. Mary's students and seph A Conerty, Jr., of Notre Dame, is Notre Dame students in "The Annunciation Mystery." national publicity director. 
n 

Girls at the Rock across the Dixie high­way were little disturbed by the flurry of Eastern competition raised by the Navy trip. They, as has been said before, are here. To advise Notre Dame students of the fact, a tea dance was held at St. Mary's on the first Sunday of the term, setting the stage for who-knows-what-romances which will lead to the "Marriages" column of this pub­lication. 
Victory Dances held in the Drill Hall after all football games, at home or away, have proved popular with both schools. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's freshmen pic­nicked in Potawattomi Park on the after­noon of Oct. 16, with the boys as hosts. 
The old guard of the alumni, whose ro­mantic adventures were confined to the well-supervised lounge at St. Mary's and surreptitious dates in the Blackstone and Oliver balconies, will hail the new freedom which allows the boys and girls to stroll about the grounds at St. Mary's, dine in town, and even play softball together in Potawattomi Park! 
nft7 Dollar Nest Egg 
Vetville, Notre Dame's most human "hu­man interest" center, opened the year with great plans. A newly-formed Married Veter­an's Welfare Council, with Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., as moderator, will serve not only Vetville residents but also some 400 married vets living in South Bend and Mish­awaka. It seeks to "coordinate, enlarge and intensify all efforts toward the welfare of each veteran, his wife and his child." 
A Maternity Committee began a cam­paign to raise $5,000 so that the Council may make a payment of $50 to help toward hospital expenses of each veteran's wife (ap­proximately 100 babies are currently on the way). A recent survey disclosed that the av­erage vet has a monthly income of $236 through the government, his wife's earnings and his own. Average expenses are about $215 a month, leaving very little to assist Junior into the world. Anyone want to be fairy godfather for a G.I. baby? 

» * • 
Rev. Paul Bailey, C.S.C., has succeeded 

Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C, as Vet­
ville chaplain. Religious services in Farley 
Hall chapel, a Great Books seminar, bridge 
tournaments, and dances in the Vets Recre­
ation hall provide a varied program for the 
234 adults and 130 children (total subject 
to change with very little notice) who com­
prise the lively and admirable Vetville com­
munity. 
• « • 

The Union Forever 
The Student Union comes first with the students! This fall the Scholastic conducted a hall-to-hall poll to discover student opi­nion as to which building should be erected first under the new Notre Dame Founda­tion program. A huge majority showed pref­erence for the proposed Student Union. The need for space in which to entertain rela­tives, guests and friends was the leading rea­son for this choice. 
• • • " 
One of five Negro students presently en­

rolled at Notre Dame, and the first Negro ever to report for football practice here, is Aaron Dyson of Indianapolis, Miss. Dyson, a halfback, now under the tutelage of fresh­man coach Benny Sheridan, will perhaps be the second member of his race to win a major sports monogram at the University. Frazier Thompson, '47, of Philadelphia, a dash man on the track team, was the first. 
• • » 

Up they go! The Notre Dame unit of the Air ROTC soared into the wild blue yonder with an enrollment of four times its strength of last year, according to Capt. Thomas J. Hardy, adjutant. Inaugurated last year with a group of 65 trainees, it now boasts 270, of whom about 130 are freshmen. Thirty-five seniors, all veterans, will receive their reserve commissions as sec­ond lieutenants upon graduation. 
Chuck Wagon Style Alumni reunions are familiar. Reunions for students are something new, originated last August by the Texas Club of Notre Dame. A Roundup of students was held in Dallas, under the direction of John Brogan, of Tyler, president of the club, and John Francis Giles, Jr., of Dallas. Two dances, golfing, swimming and a chuck wagon barbecue were included in the gala week-end. Officers of the alumni club of Dallas entertained the visitors, at an open-house. A similar Roundup is planned for the week-end of the Southern Methodist University-Notre Dame basketball game, which will be played in Dallas on Dec. 30. « » • 
BRIEFS: The non-profit Book Exchange, conducted by members of the Young Chris-
LOU BDBNS—a SSOOAIO iob 

tian Students organization, handled approx­imately 3,500 volumes in the first week vt schooL . . . The second annual interiiall debate tournament got underway toward the end of October. Director: Prof. Leonard Sommcr, University debate coach. Subject: the national collegiate topic of federal aid to education. Prizes: Notre Dame Uankets. . . . Cornelius McGillicuddy, III, grandson of Connie Mack, enrolled as a fresfaman here this fall. His father, popularly known as Roy Mack, assists Connie in runiung the Philadelphia Athletics. 
Classmates Father John Coronaugh and Jodgi* Bogar El«y. foimar iUl-JbMriean aadl,' conduct Great Books SMDinar ia th* bnr SdooL 



The SWORD «/* SPIRIT 
By Paul Mallon, '23 
Time changes opinions sometimes. Events lure us from established cons'ictions. We like to think we are liberal and openminded, and we strive to keep pace with the march of progress by searching out the ever new circumstances the world presents and ad­justing our minds to them. Furthermore, the nature of the human in us is always seeking relaxation, ease—^and peace. We yearn for an end of toil and strife, and when involved in arduous ventures, we have an inclination to let up, or look forward to the moment when we can let up. 
All this may sound rather commonplace to you alumni of Notre Dame, but if either of these two natural courses is allowed to run its way in the current world struggle, we are lost—our alumni, our nation, our world. 
The critical hour for us at Pearl Harbor 
was the hour we did not consider, the hour 
before the. Japanese._struck, the hour in 
which we could have saved ourselves by 
preparation. This hour today is such an hour 
for an entire world. The critical danger 
confronting us is that in the ritsh and flow 
of our normal.lives, we \vill forget—as peo­
ple do—^the nature of the thing with which 
we are confronted. We may lapse into the 
belief This Thing is normal, and susceptible 
to the same human instincts we have, the 
love of agreement, the worship of progress, 
the respect of justice and the belief in peace. 
Facts grow cold, you know, unless constantly 
stimidated. Doctrines debilitate unless car­
ried as banners. 
To guard against a natural decline in our political.doctrines, it is essential that each one of us understand the nature of This Thing with which we are confronted. In a struggle to maintain the world intellect, we are daily meeting subtle lures and challenges. To meet these we must never for a moment lay down the Sword of the Spirit, which defends true knowledge of the character of the lure and challenge. 
What I mean can be made plain by an in­cident in the final days of the first Truman administration. The President himself, with all his knowledge of the subject, thought it woidd be an excellent campaign gesture for him to send .the chief justice of the United States Supreme Court to Moscow to show— as he said—our "seriousness and sincerity" in favor of an understanding to restore order in Berlin. In the ordinary course of nonnal negotiations between nations, this would seem harmless—a move of simple earnest­ness, the dispatch of our chief justice to seek fair justice. What danger could there be in that? 
To our alumni, informed in various de­grees concerning the brutal efforts of the Russians to defeat all contrary interests in Berlin, the project could have sounded in­nocent. The Democrats among us could eas­ily, and no doubt did, deduce that the Republicans clamored about the matter for 
PATH. MALLON 
partisan political effect (which they no doubt had in mind) and thus some of us may have been misled as to the unsound nature of the venture. 
Mr. Truman's plan was innocent in but one respect. It was completely innocent of an understanding of Russianism, commun­ism or whatever This Thing may properly be designated. 
The character of This Thing may, per­haps,' be understood by an incident i^c h occurred in a little place where I spent some time this summer. I have recently made a longer study of its motivating power but this one incident conveys some of the The Notre Dcnne Alumnus 

accurate implications of what lies so heavily against us. In this village was a fisherman who went off alone in his boat each day to tong clams from the bottom of the bay. When a friend of mine missed a new five pound navy anchor which had been spliced to his rowboat, he asked around among the villagers. One told him: "You know that fisherman who is always working down in the cove. His name is Charles. Go ask Charles." My friend could pry no explanation from his advisor. His personal inclination was to seek out the police. Yet, perhaps the clam tonger had seen children cut away the anchor while working on his boat. My friend went down to the cove and found Charles assiduously cleaning his craft. 
"Charles," he called. "Have you seen my new anchor?" 
His ears jumped in surprise when Charles immediately called back: "Certainly I think I have it right here somewhere. Let's take a look." 
The fisherman, pleasantly, opened the floor boards at the bottom of his boat and started rummaging among an assortment of new anchors, ropes and boat accessories which had no useful place on his small mo­torboat. Handling them as a merchant dis­plays his wares, he brought forth one and said: "I think this is yours." "It was—new rope and all, even the portion which had been cut. 
My friend did not know exactly how to handle this situation. He was not sure what could best be said under the circumstances. So he said: "Why, thank you Charles, thank you very much," and went off to attach his anchor back to his rowboat. 
Inquir)- among the villagers developed a further knowledge of the working philoso­phy of Charles. One explained: "If he sees anything he likes, he just takes it." He need have no normal motive, they said, such as a use for the stolen article or a desire to enrich himself. He was completely free of normal reactions in this respect. He had no inhibitions whatever against thievery-. When­ever anything was missing around the cove, the villagers never reported the loss to the single village constable, but first asked Charles, and usually, from the bottom of his boat, he brought forth proudly the miss­ing article. 
This Thing with which we are confronted in the world is, in moral essence, an inter­national Charles. It would be considered idiotic if the village had appointed a Select­man to see Charles and impress him with the "seriousness and sincerity" of the com­munity. In treating with Russia we have found the summoning of an international court, committee or police force is general­ly useless. We have found serious discussion of the nature of conditions leads to involve­ment in degenerating arguments and finally achieves only a sense of futility in us. We have found none of the normal reactions from the normal use of diplomatic measures. Efforts to settle are interpreted by Russia as designs to conquer her, and therefore do not settle, but antagonize. Our strivings for disarmament, and for atomic control, are 
Volume 26, No. 6, Nov.-Dec, 1948 
treated by the Russians as a diplomatic game to be frustrated. Disarmament becomes in the relentless view of the Kremlin a prob­lem of how to disarm us, while Stalin may achieve more and more armament unknown to us behind his Iron Curtain. 
We have learned we are dealing with an adversary which lacks nearly all our normal concepts. In this experience, we are rapidly approaching, if we have not already passed, an inevitable conclusion that moral suasion has no use. 
Does this mean war must be fought? It should not. I think war would be a stupid conclusion of a difficult situation, like that of a novelist who has his hero commit sui­cide at the end of the book because he, the novelist, cannot solve the difficulties other­wise. War would be a confession of our diplomatic ineptitude. To me an American War against the Russians would be almost as senseless as if the villagers in my summer seaport town had declared war on the type­that-is-Charles, and armed themselves with sticks and stones to kill him. 
Russia is a condition, a situation. It must be met. We must meet it effectively in ways which are more efficient for us. Our current ways and course are not necessarily, per­manently to be considered the best ways. We are spending a third or more of our entire national budget for armament—$12 to $15 billions annually. We have foolishly blundered into a condition in the German peace whereby we must spend needed mil­lions needlessly for planes to feed and warm our portion of Berlin by air. In meeting the Russians along these lines, we are squander­ing our substance, weakening ourselves and serving their ultimate purposes. In our whole policy, we have permitted Russia too much freedom to contrive ways for weaken­ing our capitalism. 
The struggle in its current phase is but in a temporar}', stalemated and perhaps ad­\-anced stage, I have no doubt history will eventually record. Much can and must be done with it by us, now and every day. A new Truman administration doubtless will seek to effect new measures to handle This Thing more effectively. Surely we must have new and constantly more efficient lead­ership, ever seeking new and better methods but not forgetful of the sad experience through which we have moved to emerge from propaganda delusions to our present understanding. 
Notre Dame alumni cannot possibly keep up with events as they march. We can only pick up newspapers occasionally at our lei­sure, or listen to the radio when we have opportunit>". By such hop-skip-and-jump reading and learning, we may not hope to acquire the knowledge of experts. But we will not be deluded if we keep our minds clear in the knowledge of the true nature of This Thing, and defend this basic under­standing with the Sword of the Spirit against intrusions which will daily be attempted upon our intellect. Let this understanding be Our guide-measure, ^vithout cessation, with­out deviation. 
This is essential. 

President Harry S. Tnunan and Rev. lohn J. Covanangh. CJS.C prssident of Notar* Dam*. meet as the foimei visita South Bend on Oct 26. 
TAe 11th Annual 


Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday 
December 5, 1948 
{the day after the Southern California game) 
Universal Notre Dame Conmiunion Sunday is annually observed on the Sunday closest to the feast of the Immaculate Conception. If you are in the area of a Notre Dame Club, join vdth your fellow Notre 
Dame  men  in honoring Mary, Queen of Peace.  If you  are  not in  a  
club  area,  join  the  clubs in  spirit for this day.  It  is  a  special da y  
for Notre Dame  — Our Lady.  


For the fiving. for peacela the worf<f, for the dead, for Notre Dame — participate in Uni­versal Notre Dame Communion Sunday . 
ANSWER THE CHALLENGE OF THESE TIMES .. . GO TO MARY' 


Sons of Alumni Form a Large Freshmen Group 
Edward Sorin Hagcrt>-, Jr., Minneapolis, Minn., (Edward S. Hagerty); George Mat-son Haley, South Bend, Ind., (J. Ar­thur Haley, '26); Thomas Edward Harney, Jr., Dunkirk, N. Y., (Thomas E. Harney, '30); James Jerome Herr, Pontiac, III., (Jesse J. Herr, '13); Gerald Jeremiah Hoar, Jr., South Bend, Ind., (Gerald J. Hoar,'21). 
David Nelson Insley, Detroit, Mich., (Dr. Stanley W. Insley, '21). 
James Farrell Johnston, Jr., Dayton, O., 
(J. Farrell Johnston, '24); Thomas Joseph Jones, III, Boise, Ida., (Thomas J. Jones, Jr., '29). 
John L. Kiley, Jr., Kokomo, Ind., (John 
L. Kiley, '25); Keith Richard Klein, St. Louis, Mo., (Francis A. Klein, '26). 
Robert O'Neill Laird, Tulsa, Okla., (Tim 
J. O'Neill, grandfather); John Edward Lal­ley, Cleveland, O., (Earl C. Lallcy, '29); g John Patrick Lang, Mishawaka, Ind., " (George A. Lang, '20); Elmer Francis Lay-den, Jr., Glencoe, 111., (Elmer F. Layden, '25); Patrick William Lear>', Alice, Tex., (Francis W. Leary, '26); John Thomas Lof­tus, Brooklyn, N. Y., (Thomas A. Loftus, '25); Tcrrence James and Felix Leslie Lo­gan, Fort Wayne, Ind., (F. Leslie Logan, '23). 
Thomas James Maloney, Crown Point, Ind., (Patrick Maloney,'16); Richard Frank Marshall, Los Angeles, Calif., (Frank Ber­nard Marshall, '18); James Charles Ma­thews, Milwaukee, Wis., (James A. Mathews, '15); Robert Emison Mattingly, Jr., Leban­on, Ky., (Robert E. Mattingly); Jack Jo­seph Mayl, Dayton, O., (Eugene A. Mayl, '24); James Richard McCaffer>-, South Bend, Ind., (Bernard J. McCaffery, '22); Robert Joseph McDonald, Columbus, O. 
(Paul A. McDonald, 11); James Henry Mc­Lean, Homestead, Pa., (John J. McLean, '18); John Joseph McShanc, r., Indianap-^ olis, Ind., (John J. McShane, '15); Bennett " Charles Mercil, Crookston, Minn., (William 
F. Mercil, '26); John Joseph Miller, South Bend, Ind., (Callix E. Miller, '21); John Robert Moran, Jr., Denver, Colo., (John R. Moran, '25); Joseph William Murphy, Jr., LaCrosse, Wis., (Joseph W. Murphy, '27); William Thomas Murphy, Brooklyn, N. Y., 
(William J. Murphy, '22). 
Harr>' Charles Nester, Bexley, O., (Harry 
P. Nester, '20); Patrick Growney NeWUe, Buffalo, N. Y., (William J. Neville, '25, de­ceased); Edward Joseph Noonan, Wilmette, 111., (T. Clifford Noonan, '24). 
Terence D. Michael O'Keefe, Atchison, Kans., ( W. F. Dolan, '10, grandfather). 
Joseph Henry Parker, Louisville, Ky., (Jo­seph S. Parker, '21); Francis Handley Phe­lan, Clayton, Mo., (Francis W. Phelan, grandfather); John Kirmse and Louis Thom­as Plouff, Marinette, Wis., (Louis T. Plouff, Jr., '23); Joseph William Powers, Jr., Los ­Angeles, Calif., (Joseph W. Powers, '24). ^ 
Father Thornton Asks That Applications For Next September be Submitted At Once 
The rapid growth of Notre Dame in the 1920s is reflected in 1948 in the fact that well over a hundred of the 1,279 new stu­dents are the sons and/or the grandsons of Notre Dame alumni. 
The list following was prepared by the office of Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C, '29, registrar of the Universit)-, and is print­ed here as a particularly welcome indication of a -strong trend in Notre Dame enrollment. 
The name of the new student and his city are given first. The name of the alum­nus father or grandfather follows in paren­thesis! 
Richard Lee Adams, Louisville, Ky., (Walter M. Adams, '22); James Jay Adlcr, Chicago, III., (Jay Adler, '23); Joseph Law­rence Adler, Joliet, 111., (Joseph L. Adler, '24, deceased). 
Edward Vincent Ball, Pl)-mouth, Ind. (Vincent F. Ball, '27): Elwin Francis Beck­er, Seneca, Kans., (Louis Becker, '22); John Joseph Beckham, Toledo, O., (William L. Beckham, '15); Robert James Beh, Des Moines, la., (Carleton D. Beh, '17); Francis Ra)'mond Belting, St. Paul, Minn., (Frank 
J. Belting, '29); John Gerber Blackwood, Rochester, N. Y., (John M. Blackwood, '22); Edward John Bray, Bellefontaine, O., (Anthony T. Bray, '21); James Henr>- Bren­nan. Royal Oak, Mich., (John W. Brennan, '27); Peter Martin Brennan, Buffalo, N. Y., (Martin H. Brennan, '23); Bernard John, and Vincent Joseph Brown, Jr., Buffalo, N. Y., (Vincent J. Brown, '23); Dewitt Patrick Buell, Jr., Dallas, Te.x., (D. Patrick Buell, '24); William Joseph Burke, Albany, N. Y., (Geoffrey C. Burke, '23). 
John Joseph Calkins, Chicago, 111., (Ed­ward Calkins, '22); Patrick Edward Cant-well, Columbus, O., (Edward G. Cantwell, '24); James Francis Case, Wheaton, 111., (Charles E. Case, '25); Charles Michael Cauley, Robinson, III., (Stephen V. Cauley, '12); Gerald Joseph Celebrezze, Cleveland, O., (Frank D. Celebrezze, '25); Twomey 
M. Clifford, Jr., Camden, Ark., (Twomey 
M. Clifford, '14); William J. Corbett, III, Glencoe, 111., (William J. Corbett, Jr., '27); Robert Charles Corj-n, Moline, III., (J. Ralph Cor)^!, '22); James E., Jr., and Thomas Michael Costello, Louis^Ue, Ky., (James E. Costello, '19); John Legrand Cotton, Nor­folk Va., (Forrest G. Cotton, '24); Robert Matthew Crowe, Buffalo, N. Y., (Clem F. Crowe, '26); Daniel Carr Curtis, Jr., South Bend, Ind., (Daniel C. Curtis, '17); Joseph Albert Cusack, River Forest, 111., (Thomas 
F. Cusack, '21); Alden John Cusick, Jr., Wilmette, 111., (Alden J. Cusick, '21). 
Richard A. DeGraff, South Bend, Ind. (Oreal A. DeGraff, '26); Charles W. De-Groote, Jr., Rolling Prairie, Ind., (Charles 
W. DeGroote, '29); Hughes J. de la Vergne, II, New Orleans, La., (Charles E. de la Vergne, '25); Donald Arthur Diedrich, South Bend, Ind., (.\rthur J. Diedrich, '23); William J. Donelan, III, Colorado Springs, Colo., (William J. Donelan, Jr., '29); Richard Charles Donovan, Muskegon, Mich., (Frank J. Donovan, '28); Raymond Twomey Duncan, LaSalle, 111., (Walter Dun­can, '12); John Jennett Dunn, Wilmette, 111., (Richard J. Dunn, '18, deceased); Thomas Stafford Dunn, Cairo, 111., (Thom­as F. Lindsay, grandfather, and John Lind­say, great grandfather); Bernard John Dwy­er, Jr., Decatur, III., (Bernard J. Dwyer, '22). 
William Dean Endres, Oak Park, 111., (John J. Endres, '26); John David Engels, South Bend, Ind. (Norbert Engels, '26). 
WANTED: APPLICATIONS AT ONCE 
Rev. Lotlis J. Thornton. C.S.C. reg­istrar of the University, urges im­mediate action on the part of all alumni and their relatives and iriends who hope to have sons enter Notre Dame next September. Appli­cation forms and bulletins can be readily obtained by writing to Father Thornton. 
Father Thornton points out that applications of prospective students will be considered largely on the basis of academic standards to the extent that facilities are available in the various colleges and depart­ments of the University, with due recognition given to the son-of-on­alumnus status, where that opplies. 

Charles Thomas Fahy, Washington, D. C, (Charles Fahy, '14); William Gautier Fahy, Washington, D. C, (Joseph A. Fahy, '30, deceased); Edward A. Fellner, Jr., Belleville, 111., (A. Edward Fellner, '25); William Henry Frawley, Spearfish, S. D. (W. G. Frawley, '10, deceased). 
Joseph Francis Gargan, Jr., Lowell, Mass., (Joseph F. Gargan, '17, deceased); Albert Joseph Gebert, Wichita, Kans., (Albert J. Gebert, '30); Joseph Francis Geniesse, Green Bay, Wis., (Levi A. Geniesse, '24); Thomas Graham Gerding, Ottawa, 111., (William J. Graham, grandfather); Robert Kilian Gor­don, Jr., Fort Wayne, Ind., (Robert K. Gordon, '25); James Robert Graham, Jr., York, Pa., (J. Robert Graham, '26). 
Volume 26, No. 6, Nov.-Dec, 1948 
Eugene Michael Riley, Burlington, la. (Harold P. Riley, '23); Thomas Joseph Roemer, South Bend, Ind., (William F. Roemer, Ph.D., '27); Edwin Leo Ryan, Jr., Chicago, 111., (Edwin L. Ryan, '27); Gerald Frederick Ryan, Maplewood, N. J., (James 
W. Ryan, Sr., grandfather). 
(Rupia) Alberto Salazar, Havana, Cuba, (Emilio R. Salazar, 16); Francis Charles Schwab, Mexico, D, F., Mex., (Francis C. Schwab, Jr., Mexico, D. F., (Francis C. 
Columbus, O., (Thomas J. Sheehan, '24); Richard Alan Sheridan, Pittsburgh, Pa., (H. 
D. Sheridan, '26); Andrew Francis Sleigh, Jr., Weston, W. Va., (Andrew F. Sleigh, '27); -•Mban Lee Smith, LaPorte, Ind., (Al-ban M. Smith, '27); Donald Foltz Smith, South Bend, Ind., (Myrle E. Smith, '15); Philip John Snyder, Williamsville, N. Y., 
(Philip J. Snyder, '19); Jerome Francis So-den, Hannibal, Mo., (Frank J. Soden, grand" father); John Norman Stanton, Jr., Gary, Ind., (John N. Stanton, '24); William Pat-trick Sullivan, Belmont, Mass. (Joseph P. Sullivan, '22). 
Frank Bernard Thompson, Santa Rosa, Calif., (Frank B. Thompson, '21); Thomaii Stapleton Tiemey, Rochester, N. if., ( Mi­chael J. Tiemey, '21). 
Thomas Joseph Verbiest, Grosse Pointc, Mich., (C. M. Verbiest, '20). 
Robert James Walsh, Hamburg, N. Y., (Robert M. Walsh, '14); Michael Joseph Whelan, Ridgewood, N. J., (James F. Whe­
lan, '26). 
Generation Club Begins Activities for 1948-49 
HOW MANY FACES LOOK 
By MURRAY POWERS, '51 

Ever>'thing from socials to lectures is on the calendar of the Generation Club for the rest of the schoolyear. One of the foremost plans is the decorating of the Huddle. 
(The Generation Club, you'll recall, is composed of the sons or grandsons of alum­ni. George Witteried, Jr., is the president and Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, is the fac­ulty advisor) 
The Huddle was formerly Brother Leo­pold's candy store. In it one can buy most anything from sodas, cones and cokes to cigarettes, candy and soap. Shelves line the blank walls to hold the books and coffees of the ever-present throngs of students. 
It was the blank walls that first prompted the redecorating idea. The aim now is to make it really a huddle, and not just a re­freshment stand. College spirit and tradition will reign, with pennants and pictures on the walls. The pictures will be of the new and the old Notre Dame, the teams and scenes of the past and the present. They will be procured from old collections on the campus and from various alumni. Also there will be posted the scores of various impor­tant athletic contests. 
This renovating is under the supervision 

 FAMILIAR? The Generation Club has ite iint meeting o{ the KhoolTear. 
Left to right (first row) P. Snyder, Jr., J. Har­mon, Jr., W. Burke, F. Clifford, J. Stanton, Jr., 
W. SulHran, x\. Smith, F. Phclan, E. McCarthy. (Second row) R. Miller, T. Logan, J. Cotton, L. Vogel, J. Loftus, W. Clements. (Third row) C. Cawley, W. Kennedy, R. Walsh, E. Bray, R. Feld­pausch, T. Beckman, R. Laird, L. Call, J. Arm­strong. (Fourth row) R. Sheridan, H. Plamondon, 
P. Riedman, W. Donelan, A. L. Sheridan, J. Lalley. (Fifth row) Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., T. Botzum, 
W. Corbett, J. Calkins, G. Patterson, Jr., E. Lay-den, Jr., F. Thompson, D. Diedrich, J. NachtegaU, 
J. Geniesse, J. Adler, J. Schwab, Jr., E. Key de Castro. E. R}-an, Jr., G. Witteried, Jr., J. Cusick, 
J. Beckman. 
of Joe Harmon of Indianapolis and Dick Feldpausch of Hastings, Mich. Sketching the Huddle to find its dimensions, and plan­ning the placing of the pictures, is Jim NachtegaU, of Grand Rapids, Mich. 
On the social side, the club plans to have a dinner party sometime in February. The dinner will be for members of the club and girls of St. Mar>''s College. It is hoped that the men will put on a skit for entertain­ment. Also there will be dancing and group singing. 
Tentatively planned also are lectures in parliamentary procedure for the club and addresses by prominent alumni to the stu­dent body. 
A tutor bureau is contemplated also so that those needing academic help and those willing to give it could readily join forces. 

Also for the future is a scholarship fimd. This fund would be for the needy sons of alumni, to help them complete their educa­tion. The administration of such a fund would be in the hands of three Notre Dame graduates. 

Low Group Progresses 
With the report of the nominating com­mittee, the organizational plans for the elec­tion and meeting of the first board of direc­tors of the Notre Dame Law Association have been completed. A copy of the Consti­tution, a ballot, and an explanatory letter will be mailed to all Notre Dame men who are listed as lawyers in the records avail­able at the University. The first meeting of the board will be held on Dec. 10 and 11, coinciding with the proceedings of the Sec­ond Natural Law Institute. The agenda will include the election of officers, adoption of by-laws to implement the general provisions of the constitution, and establishment of a central office from which to effectuate the purposes for which the Association was or­ganized. Pending the initial meeting, in­quiries may be directed to the Notre Dame Law Association, Box 1393, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Notre Dame Book Store Adds Modem Note 
Yes, that's what we said: this is the Notre Dame Book Store of 1948. Bub your eyes and look again. 
As Notre Dame students of the early 1920s, among others, can testify, things are not what they used to be on the campus. 
Take the Book Store. Wasn't it only yes­terday that Brother Prosper and his corps of student helpers were dealing out books and stationerj' from a tiny room in the Main Building, first floor back? Space there was so restricted that the room had a "mez­zanine," which meant a sort of catwalk eight feet up or so where the nimble-footed employes, having ascended a ladder, im­periled their lives in search of an elusive physics text. 
In 1932, the Book Store forsook its hum­ble quarters in the Main Building and mov­ed to Badin (formerly St. Joseph's) Hall to take over space once given to the Badin "rec room" on the ground floor, south, of the building. There, under the expert man­agement of Brother Meinrad, C.S.C., and Brother Conan, C.S.C., his assistant, the store grew fast, seeing one of its busiest pe­riods in World War II when thousands of naval trainees crowded the campus. Many lines of merchandise were added, especially Notre Dame jewelry, the handling of which was transferred in 1942 from the Comp­trollers' Office to the Book Store. 
But still the Book Store was cramped, especially with the expanded student body following the war. So a year ago. Brother Conan, now manager of the store took over space on the north side of Badin, ground floor, and concentrated there the text book division of the Book Store. (This, as alum­ni of the 1920s will recall, was the scene of the memorable O. A. Clark cafeteria). 
With the start of Christmas vacation in 1947, renovators attacked the south divi­sion of the Book Store and on Feb. 1, 1948, it reappeared as the modem store pictured above, with distinctive merchandise, display 
WE'RE BOBBY 
The editors can't explain it the printers can't explain it the proof­readers can't explain it! It's a mys­tery still to be solved. But the fact is that the error, and a serious one. was made in the September-October issue of the ALDMNUS. 
Please note carefully that the ar­ticle, "A Tribute to Clarence Mc­Cabe" in that issue was written, not by "Matthew A. McEnight" as the cold and unrelenting type would have it but by Matthew A. McEoritt 
We're sorry, Mr. McEavitt cases and lighting. Featured here, among other things, are jewelry, souvenirs of all sorts, radios, typewriters, lamps, sports wear (including T-shirts for children and adults) pennants, stationery, religious goods, jackets and assorted novelties—^just to give you an idea. 

If you'd like to have a more exact idea of what Brother Conan keeps on hand, just drop him a note and ask him for his latest folder. If you verbally twist his arm hard enough, he will agree, we're sure, to ship­ping you some very distinctive Christmas presents. In fact, he likes mail order busi­ness. 
At Military Conference 
Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-presi­dent, was named to a panel to participate in a ten-day military orientation conference from Nov. 8 to 18 sponsored by the Depart­ment of Defense. 
Leaders in industrial, business and pro­fessional fields were invited to the confer­ence, held to acquaint the group with cur­rent activities and problems of the armed forces. Father Murphy and other members of the pane] visited military baess including Fort Benning, Ga., Pensacola, Fla., Naval Base, and the Eglin Air Base at Valparaiso, Fla. 




Notre Dame Books 
FIRST CITIZEN. By Richard Sullivan, '30. New York: Henry Holt and Co. $3.00 
Review by {Rev.) Leo L. Ward, C.S.C. 
The publication of another novel by Rich­ard Sullivan, associate professor in tht De­partment of English at Notre Dame, will be interesting news to many readers of the ALUMNUS. It is not surprising to find that First Citizen, Mr. Sullivan's fourth novel, maintains the high level of craftmanship which characterized his earlier stories, while, at the same time, it achieves a stronger dramatic quality and a richer, deeper meaning. 
The story turns around the career of Kingsley Bond, "first citizen" of the small Midwestern city of Baysweep, and the influ­ence of his career on his wife Una and his daughter Elizabeth. Kingsley Bond is con­sumed by lust for money and position. After years of disappointment, he suddenly gains the money by unscrupulously securing a very high insurance indemnit>- from the death of his eldest daughter Monica in an automobile accident; and, with the money, by shrewd and callous bargaining, he gradually gains the position and influence which wealth can bring. Knowing how he has exploited the death of Monica, and feeling that she is somehow involved, his wife Una is gradually driven to a condition of insane fear, while his daughter Elizabeth is brought to drunk­en and reckless despair, only to be saved from herself, and from the contamination of her father's guilt, by Pete Morrissey, the one solid rock of sense and understand­ing in the chaos of doubt and emotion into which Elizabeth has been flung. The story actually relates only the events of one night and one morning in the lives of the char­acters, but the writer manages to unfold, by a skillful use of flashbacks which propel rather than retard the story, the whole life of each character. The narrative method is admirably suited to Mr. Sullivan's purpose. While it enables him to achieve a unity and totality of eff'cct which, as one reviewer has remarked, is almost as simple and stark as Greek tragedy, it also permits the author to explore the complexity of his characters fully, and to reveal the whole range of their emotional experience. The result is a story filled with strong dramatic tension. One re­viewer has called it a novel of pain and pas­sion. It is this and more: a novel in which inner spiritual suH'ering is rendered fearless­ly and relentlessly, but with tender compas­sion, and, finally, with Christian meaning. 
The meaning is implicit in Una's fright­ful action as she transfixes her o^vn hand with hammer and nail in a scene of high passionate drama; and the meaning is also revealed in the figure of Pete Morrissey, whose clear common sense, braced and en­lightened by his religious faith, helps Eliza­beth to accept in the end a world in which human nature seems so often heir to tragic folly. In the lives of Una and Elizabeth par­ticularly, and, with fearful and devastating 
RICHARD SULLIVAN 

irony, even in the life of Kingsley Bond as well, the common birthmark of the Cross is clear. The Crucifixion is both a shadow and a light falling across all the pages of the novel. The author faces the fact of human suH'ering frankly, with no sentimental or pious compromises, but the sufl'ering is nei­ther futile nor blind, for in the end.it has a clear overtone of Christian meaning. Never didactic or obtrusive, the meaning is yet clear, a light against which the characters emerge in sharp relief. First Citizen is grim and terrible, but also tender and beautiful, because it is a novel that never could have been written in a world that had not known the passion and charity of Christ. 
AlwKubiakDhs 

Alexander C. Kubiak, 66, president of the McCIave Printing Co., South Bend, died on Sept. 6 after an illness of two and half years. His wife, five sons, two daughters and his mother survive. 
Printer of the Dome, the onetime Notre Dame Daily and other Notre Dame publi­cations in earlier years. Mr. Kubiak was a friend of scores of Notre Dame students who worked in his plant. 

Lecfures Available 

Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg of the University of California, one of the world's foremost nuclear chemists, delivered in the fall of 1947 the Nieuwland Memorial Lectures at Notre Dame. These notable lectures have now been gathered in a booklet entitled "The Transuranium Elements and Nuclear Energy," published by Notre Dame and available through the Chemistry Depart­ment, Notre Dame, Ind., at a cost of one dollar a copy. 
Preference Preferred 
Alumni, it appears, are very definitely in favor of giving preference in the matter of purchasing football tickets to those who con­tribute to the Annual Alumni Fund. 
Such is the verdict resulting from the "ballot" enclosed with the September-October ALUMUNS. 
There were, up to Nov. 5, answers total­ing 1,481 with regard to football ticket pref­erence. Of this number, 471 believed that "some" preference should be given to con­tributors, while 824 voted specifically in favor of giving preference to those who had contributed in the previous calendar year. Only 186 felt that no preference at all should be given to contributors. 
The whole matter will be considered by the Board of Directors of the Alumni Asso­ciation at its next meeting. 
Nomina-l-ing Committees 
President Harry G. Hogan has announced the following Nominating Committees to select the nominees for directors of the Alumni Association 1949-1952: 
ALFRED C. RYAN, '20, Buffalo, N. Y. CHARLES B. CUSHWA, '31, Youngstown, O. BENEDICT J. KAISER, '12, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
and JOHN W. BRENNAN, '27, Detroit, Mich CHARLES G. CORCORAN, '17, Springfield, lU. CLARENCE J. DONOVAN, '31, Bedford, Ind. 
Directors whose terms expire this year are: Harry G. Hogan, '04; Robert T. Hellrung, '30; Harold Duke, '30, and Daniel J. O'NeU, '25. 
Directors holding over are: John J. Elder, '30; Paul R. Mallon, '23; Louis F~ Buckley, '28; Francis Wallace, '23; Arthur D. Cronin, '37; Joseph M. Boland, 'Z?; Rev. Vincent P. Brennan, '32, and Leo B. Ward, '20. y : • 
Ballots will be mailed to the membership in time for return prior to Dec. 10 as specified in the Association Constitution. 
IS 
ATHLETICS • • 
By RAYMOND J. DONOVAN. '42, Assistant Director oi Public Inionnation 

Football 

Heading down the home stretch toward the conclusion of the 1948 football season. Coach Frank Leahy's Notre Dame football team was faced with overwhelming odds in its attempt to retain the national champion­ship for the third consecutive year. 
The undefeated Irish eleven, \vith six con­secutive 1948 victories to its credit as this was written, had run the unbeaten string chalked up by Notre Dame gridders to 24— but the Leahymen were ranked No. 2 in the nation by the Associated Press- poll. 
Never below the third spot in the poll during the first half of the season, Notre Dame nevertheless held first place only once. After the opening week of the rankings, in which the Irish took over in first place just where they left off at the end of the 1947 campaign, they dropped to second place be­hind North Carolina and the following week to third place behind the Tarheels and Michigan. At this writing, Notre Dame had jumped back into second place, but the odds of shaking the Wolverines from first place were pretty formidable. 
Probably the greatest apparent difference between the 1947 Notre Dame national championship eleven and this year's aspir­ing team is that last year's squad gave the impression of never ha%-ing to turn on their full power to sweep to an unbeaten cam­paign. The 1948 Irish, minus some of the reserve power utilized last year have had to go "all out" on several occasions to avoid defeat. 
And Coach Leahy's defending champions didn't have to wait very long before they had to cut loose with everything they had. In the season opener against Purdue, hailed in pre-season ballyhoo as the "game of the year," the Notre Dame team found them­selves behind for the first time since 1945, only a second half spurt and a Boilermaker rally that fell only one point short kept the Irish unscathed to the tune of 28 to 27 in one of the most thrilling games ever played in the Notre Dame Stadium. 

A Pittsburgh team which only the week before had given highly touted Southern Methodist a terrific battle for three quarters before bowing 33 to 14, had little to offer against the Irish and Notre Dame made it two in a row this year and 20 straight over three season by trouncing the Panthers, 40 to 0. 
Michigan State's Spartans provided the first . opportunity for comparing scores against common opponents of both Notre Dame and Michigan. The Wolverines, in the season ogener, had been forced to come back from a 7-7 halftime deadlock to edge past the State eleven, 13 to 7. Featuring a rug­ged line that outcharged the. Irish during the first half, the Spartans once again ex­tended the Leahymen before bowing, 26 to 7, in a second half Notre Dame drive. 
Nebraska's Comhuskers submitted with no major objections, but not before they had pushed across two touchdowns, 44 to 13. And the Irish were forced to extend them­selves against Dr. Eddie Anderson's Iowa Hawkeyes. The Hawks held Notre Dame to a 6 to 6 deadlock in the first quarter, but the Irish picked up touchdowns in each suc­ceeding quarter to win, 27 to 12, in a game that found Notre Dame completing only one of eight passes, and that for a loss of seven yards. 
Coach Leahy's squad had little difficulty in disposing of a hapless Navy team that is in the midst of one of its most disastrous seasons, 41 to 7, for its twenty-fourth straight non-defeat game. 
But the Irish head down the home stretch without a blemish on their record, and they do this in spite of a siege of injuries that has hampered them throughout the season, and in spite of the fact that capable re­placements had to be found for such 1947 stalwarts as quarterback Johnny Lujack, tackles George Connor and Ziggy Czarob­ski and a host of others. 
Along the line Coach Leahy has depended consistently for a first team on Jim Martin and Leon Hart at ends. Jack Fallon and Ralph McGehee at tackles, Capt. Bill Fisch­er and Marty Wendell at guards, and Bill Walsh at center. 
It is difficult to pin the backfield down to any four men. Frank Tripucka definitely has been the No. 1 quarterback, but Bob Williams also has seen considerable action. At left half, Terry Brennan has had a tough time with an injured knee and has been spelled on occasion by Bill Gay and by Coy McGee until the latter broke his leg in prac­tice. Ernie Zalejski finally is rounding into shape after an injured leg. Emil Sitko con­tinues to hold down the right half post, but the work of Lancaster Smith and Jack Lan­dry has been outstanding. Fullbacks John Panelli and Mike Swistowicz both have been 
Orocko (leit) lacks that field goal in the Purdue game. At right Head Freshman Coodi Benny Slieridan tells Iiis boys how it's done. 
hampered off and on with injuries, and Frank Spaniel has stepped in to give credit­able performances. 
. So, the situation boils down to a Notre Dame team that is seeking to give the Irish a third straight national championship—a team that bears up well in the footsteps of illustrious predecessors—trying to knock a team out of the national lead, a team not on the Notre Dame schedule. 
Basketball 

Bolstered by the return of last season's entire starting lineup, Coach Ed Krause has opened practice for one of the toughest schedules in the history of basketball at No­tre Dame. 
The Irish quintet, with none of the tradi­tional "breather" opponents, open their 1948-49 card against Illinois on Dec. 8 in the Notre Dame Gym. Before the first of the year, the Krausemen must face five op­ponents from the tough Big Nine conference —and that's only the beginning. 
Features of the 24 game schedule will be trips to both the east and west coasts. Dur­ing the Christmas holidays the Irish will head west to meet Southern Methodist in Dallas, Tex., and St. Mary's in San Fran­cisco. Later in the season, Coach Krause will lead his quintet to the eastern seaboard, where the Notre Dame cagers will meet Ca­nisius in Buffalo, N. Y., and New York Uni­versity in Madison Square Garden. 
In addition to these contests, the Irish also will meet such basketball powerhouses as Northwestern, Wisconsin, Purdue, Indi­ana, DePaul, Butler, Denver, • Michigan State, Marquette, St. Louis, Pennsylvania Navy and Kentucky. 
Coach Krause was greeted by eight mon­ogram winners from last year's squad when practice opened late in October. Only John (Buster) Hiller and John Goonen were lost by graduation, but another major loss was suffered by a transfer. Vince Boryla, all-time scoring record holder at Notre Dame and 1948 Olympic hoop star, transferred to Den­ver University, instead of returning to No­tre Dame as had been anticipated. 
The potential starting lineup for the Irish five looms as the same one that carried the burden last year, when Notre Dame won 17 while losing 7, and included among its victims such highly-touted teams as Ken­tucky and New York University. 
Leo Barnhorst, leading scorer last year and husky rebound expert, likely will team with speedy Jim O'Halloran at the forward posts. John Brennan, leading scorer two years ago, who was out of action most of last year with a broken arm, is back at cen­ter. The starting guard positions undoubt­edly will be manned by defensive stalwart Paul Gordon and ambidextrous dribbler and ball-handler extraordinary Kevin O'Shea. 
Top flight reserves at this writing figure to include center John Foley, who took over the regular center berth last year while Brennan was injured, and forwards Dick Kluck and Frank Kaufmann. Likely look­ing sophomore prospects include Neal Fich-The complete schedule follows: 
Dec. 8—Illinois at Notre Dame 11—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium 13—Wisconsin at Notre Dame 20—Pennsylv-ania at Notre Dame 22—Navy at Chicago Stadium 27—Purdue at Indianapolis (Double 
Header Program) 28—Indiana at Indianapolis (Double 
Header Program) 30—Southern Methodist at Dallas, Tex. 
Jan. 3—St. Mary's at San Francisco 11—DePaul at Notre Dame 18—Butler at Notre Dame 22—Denver at Notre Dame 29—Kentucky at Louisville 
31—Butler at Indianapolis 
Feb. 3—Michigan State at Notre Dame 
8—Marquette at Milwaukee 12—St. Louis at St. Louis 16—Marquette at Notre Dame 19—DePaut at Chicago Stadium 23—Michigan State at East Lansing 
26—Canisius at Buffalo 28—New York U. at Madison Square Garden 
Mar. 5—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium 
7—St. Louis at Notre Dame 
Cross-Counfr/ 

Four reliable veterans and a trio of prom­ising newcomers are shouldering the burden of Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy's 1948 Notre Dame cross country team. 
Veterans around whom the Irish harriers have been built include Jim Murphy, Bill Leonard, Jim Kittell, and Lou Tracy. New­comers who have bolstered Coach Handy's squad to date are Tony DaDamio, Lou Lepry and Gerry Johnson. 
The Irish cross-country runners opened the season by overwhelming a strong Wyo­ming team, but Wisconsin's Don Gehrmann and his mates proved too much of a hurdle and the Badgers handed the Handymen their initial loss. Notre Dame came back to edge past Iowa in its final duel meet of the season. 
Remaining on the Irish card are Navy and Villanova in a triangular meet at Bal­timore, Md., the Indiana state meet and the Central Collegiate meet, both at Notre Dame, and the national cross country run at Michigan State. 
CENTER BOX WALSH 
Fencing 

For the past several weeks. Herb Mel­ton's swordsmen have been working out for the 1948-49 fencing season. With thirty men out for the vanity and with five home matches, the squad b expected to attract much attention on the Irish campus. 
Although the schedule hasn't been approv­ed yet, N. D. is slated to play host to Chi­cago, Illinois, Northwestern, Ohio State and Illinois Tech. Teams like these will malce it the best home schedule since the sport was resumed here in 1946. 
Twrelve lettermen return including ex-captain Lou Bums, Jerry Lubin, Colin Mac­Donald and Mike DiCicco in the foils; Bob Schlosser, Bob Bloser, Ralph Witucki, and Tom Roncy in the sabre; and Ralph Dixon, John Vincent, Jerry Dobyns and Jim Jan­sen in the epee. 
tel, Dick Giedlin, Tony Lipton and Marty 
Crane, minna hia tradt, acorea foe tfidngoa Stole 
O'Connor. 
» »

ALUMNI CLUBS 
Baltimore 
The Navy-Notre Dame game stirred renewed inter­est in the club. Plans included the Rally Friday ei-ening, Oct. 29, and the Cocktail Party Saturday after the game. 
GIL PRENDERGAST w'as chairman of the affair. His committee on arrangements ^^•as headed by FRANK O'CONNELL and FRANK HOCHREIT­ER, publicity by HAL WILLIAMS, programs, BROTHER MARTIN JOHN, CFX; uckets, FRED TRENKLE and BILL LOUGHRAN; resen-ations, BRYCE SMFFH and BERNIE CRONIN; refresh­ments, TOM McCREADY. 
Two new members, BILL PECK and GENE HIL­KERT, were welcomed into the club and word was received that PAT PUTNAM, '41, will also be a new member as soon as he gets settled in Baltimore. 
BERNIE PETERSEN, '38, is another member of the club. He is a senior stress anal>^t at the Glenn 
L. Martin plant. 
FRANK WHITE, CH.ARLIE BLISS, and DAVE FIELDS, between their numerous trips out of town, have managed to attend most of the meetings in the last few months. JAMES H. MURR,\Y 
Boston 
For those who missed the Boston Club news in the September-October 1948 issue of the ALUMNUS, we wish to advise that, for reasons best known to the editor and/or printer, it appeared under the heading of "Rhode Island and Boston.'* [The print­er's fault, naturally. We're sorry—Ed.] 
The next meeting will be held in November* The Club is planning to fall in line with the request of the Alumni Association to install new ofHcers on Universal Notre Dame night. For this reason, the annual election will be postponed until after the first of the year. A nominating committee will be appointed at the November meeting. 
We hated to use the "Go West, voung man" cliche, but TOM QUALTERS, '28, did just that. He is now assistant director of industrial relations for the Kaiser Steel Corporation at Fontana, Calif. Vice President FRANK H. REILLY and FRANCIS 
H. GUINDON are assisting President JOHN V. MORAN in the Greater Boston Community Fund Campaign. 
Several members of the Boston Club attended the services when Stonehill College at Easton, Mass., v,-3S formally opened, Oct. 12, with a Pontifical Mass celebrated by the MOST REV. JAMES E. CASSIDY, bishop of the Fall River diocese. 
We wish to welcome JOHN J. DUNPHY» *39, from Salem, N. J. John finished Harvard Business School in '4B and is now with Parker Corp., invest­ment distributors, at 1 Court St., Boston. 
JACK NYE DUFFEY 

Central New York 
Chief among the summer acti\-ities was the club's annual Golf Supper held this year at the Cort­bnd Golf and Country Club, S>-racuse. JUSTIN CORCORAN and PAT QUIRK, Cortland alumni, arranged a \*ery nice day. The weatherman cooperat­ed by pro\^ding the hottest Aug. 25 on record. 
HAWLEY VAN SWALL has been appointed gen­eral manager of the Howlett Studebaker agency in S>Tacuse. DANIEL A. KELLEY 
Central Illinois 
The reorganized and reactiv-ated club, sparked by its officeis, DICK NEESON, president, STEVE GRA­LIKER, vice-president, and LANT)0 HOWARD, secretary-treasurer, had its first fall meeting on Oct. 25 in the Knights of Columbus Club, Springfield. BILL DOOLEY, from the Alumni Office, was the speaker following the dinner. CLARE HAFEL pre­sided later as football moWes were shown. 
President Neeson, follou-ing several earlier meet­ings of the officers, announced a comprehensive club program for the next se\'eral months, cubninat­ing with the annual dinner on Universal Notre Dame Night. The next club gathering will mark Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday on De c 
5. Mass at 8:30 in the Cathedral will be followed by breakfast in a hotel.—WRD 
Cincinnati 
President BOB LEONARD conducted the first fall meeting on Sept. 14 and reported that the club had in July sent $2,000 to the University for the club scholarship. WALTER NIENABER reported on the club's football excursions to the Purdue and Northwestern games; both trips were sold out long in ad^-ance. 
JOHN COTTINGHAM for the third consecutive year will be chairman of the Christmas Ball, and John was authorized to appoint his own committees. JACK HEILKER, local chairman for the Founda­tion, discussed the progress and needs of the Founda­tion. 
JIM ARMSTRONG came to town on Sept. 21 to meet with the Foundation committee for Cin­cinnati. Present were, JACK HEILKER, presiding, and BOB LEONARD, BILL GRAFE, DICK SCAL­LAN, JOHN COTTINGHAM, WALT NIENABER. JOE MORRISSEY. BOB BISCHOFF, HOWARD ROHAN, HARRY GILLIGAN, JR.. and myself. 
BILL MIDDENDORF 

Eastern Indiana 
BILL CRAIG, '29, upon being elected president of our club, promised a stag golf tourney and din­ner sometime during 1948. This meeting was held Sept. 16 at the Delaware Country Club, near Mun­cie. About 50 N. D. men and friends of N. D. were present. 
The younger and hardier members teed off at 
1:30 for a blind bogey golf tourney, while we more sedentary oldsters retired to the club house for an afternoon of less strenuous pastime. After the scores were all posted and the kibitzing finished we joined together lor a very delightful meal. During the meal it was determined that BILL CRAIG won the golf trophy. To relieve his embarrassment, the prize was consumed on the spot. Some football neu-srecls were shown and there were discussions relative to club affairs. 
From some very sketchy notes I can supply the following information about those who were there or about whom I received information: 
CHARLES VOGT, 'GO, last ^-ear's president and dean of N. D. men in this area, still supplies dite tailoring. 
BILL CRAIG, '29, our president, aside from managing station WLBC and his many civic and sodal activities, can still find time to get up the nice party as described. Inddentally, he is still in the running in the hat race with FRANK LEAHY. 
JIM HALLIGAN, '32, and TOM CANNON, '33, both back from judge advocate duties with the Army and service as judge and prosecutor, are now devoting their time to private practice. Inddentally, Tom and "Mis. Cannon have a new son, Thomas, Jr., born Sept. 19, 1948. 
CHARLES PIERONI, 36, after two terms as dty judge, retired to make way for the present dty judge, MARIO PIERONI, '40, and to devote himself to his private practice and his fine family of eight children induding two sets of tinns. &&rio has a son and daughter and receives reams of pub­lidty about his adjucating from the bench mth the counsel of his sedng-eye dog. Charles Keroni, to meet the requirements of his expanding firm and to fill the loss of XCario going to the judgeship, has called in two N. D. rt^inforcements. JACK HYNES, Law '40, after ser\ing as an officer with the Sea Bees, came down for a visit in 1946 and as he ex­
pressed it, wasn't permitted to return. His wife and two chilclren are here with him in Muncie. ED DIXON, '48, now married, joined the firm this summer. 
FRANK GARVEY came to town last year as works manager of a local steel industry. 
NORB HART, doing business as the Hart Insur­ance Co., has three husky sons who are potential fcx>tball material. Norb persuaded his two brothers-in-law from Alexandria, Ind., JOE SMITH, Alex­andria merchant and TED SMITH, Lever Bros, representative to drop their duties for the afternoon to make the party. 
FRED WATSON, stalwart bachelor, still dispenses legal adWce and service in the old spot. 
WILLIAM S. (SKIP) McDON.ALD is district plant engineer for the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. His dassmate, HEINE WALTERS is district con­struction supervisor for the same firm and MEL­VILLE (BUD) MIX is fadlities engineer. HARRY HART is associated with a local steel firm. 
This column should probably have been written by RICHARD GREENE, the old journalist, who after taking time out during the vvar to serve in personnel work in a local industry, resumed his | newspaper work, this time as a columnist. ' 
BILL CRONIN, the Hartford City druggist, led a contingent of eight down for the party, induding BOB CRONIN, who inddentally v%-as given a golf lesson by his father JAMES CRONIN, JR. Bob is assodated with his dad in the Citizens State Bank in Hartford City. Bill supplies the following information about Hartford City men not at the party: FRANCIS SCHWIER is in the grocery* busi­ness. A. B. COX is in printing business. JAMES EMSHWIER is a practicing attorney and AL GRAINGER is now in South Bend in the insurance business. 
GEORGE MILFORD, of Marion. Ind.. will be joined in his law practice by his brother, BOB. George supplies the following information about 
N. D. men in the Marion area: JIM GARTLAND, assodated with his father in the Atlas Foundr>', has a new daughter; PAT KILEY and his father have the Nash agency in that city; JIM MOODY is salesman for a local fiber company; JOHN T. RADEMAKER operates the Coca Cola Co. BUD GARTLAND is also assodated with Jim and their dad in the Atlas Foundry. 
Galand V. Funk, father of GALAND V. FUNK. JR., *44, has donated funds for the construction of a new school to be built for St. Man's parish as a memorial to his son who was killed in the g Battle of the Bulge. This school is to be known as X the St. Mary's Gahmd V. Funk Memorial School. 
JIM CARNES, '42, former basketball star, now has three children and is a member of the local police department. 
Your correspondent continues as director of in­dustrial rekitions with a local firm and looks fon%'ard to the day when his two rugged sons, Mike and Ste\*e, along with the young Harts and Pieronis will make up a powerful contingent of football aspirants for some future N. D. team. 
BUTCH DeVAULT 

Dallas 
Big news for alumni in Texas and vidnity is the forthcoming basketball game between Notre Dame and Southern Afetliodist University on De c 30. 
The game will dedicate the basketball court of the new $800,000 Automobile, A\iation and Recreation Building in Dallas* Fair Park. Dallas alumni are deeply appredative of this honor and interest is already keen in the game. The Dallas Club has been allotted 1,500 tickets through the efforts of dub president, ED HAGGAR. These will be avail­able to almnni on a preference basis prior to the opening of the public sale on Dec 1. After Dec-1, this preference will be withdrawn so alumni are A mged to get thdr requests in to Ed as soon as ' possible. Tickets are priced at $2.40 each. 
Volume 26, No. 6, Nov.-Dec, 1948 
The club's annual Christmas dance has been tentatively scheduled for Dec. 29., More details will be aralable shortly as soon as final arrange­ments have been completed. 
Also in the works at the moment is.a. get-together luncheon on the afternoon of the Southern Cali­fornia game with arrangements pending for a spe­cial broadcast of the game. 
JOE HAGGAR's marriage to Isabel Salloum is scheduled for Nov. 27. in Gulfport, Miss. Brother Ed will be on hand tor the festivities. 
GEORGE BECKER is spending all his spare time, when not flying for American Airlines these days, in remodeling hb home. At last reports, George's barbecue pit, without which no home down here is complete, was something to make a Ladies Home Journal editor drool. 
B. F. McLAIN is very much in the news locally these da>-s as chairman of the Community Chest fund drive. He has also held the presidency of the Chamber of Commerce for four terms and has served on numerous other ci%'ic and welfare com-
New arrival in town is BUD GOLD^L•^N who 

was formerly advertising director of a Newark, O., 
department store. Arriving with Bud were wife 
Eleanor and son Billy, aged 1, who sports a mighty 
cute Notre Dame-Fighting Irish sweatshirt. 
JOHN MORAN 

Fort Wayne 
On Aug. 26 there was a joint meeting of club ofliceis and members of the Board of Directors, with President BERNARD T. KEARNS presiding. Board Members were elected for the following terms: ED DISSER, one year; BERN.ARD M. NIEZER, two years; PAUL SAGSTETTER, three years; and ROB­ERT K. GORDON, four years. 
A stag picnic was held on Sept. 13 at the farm of ED WESNER. Ed served as chairman of the committee and was assisted by BOB CENTLIVRE, BOB O'REILLY, JOHN LILL and ROY GRIM­MER, JR. It was an informal get-together, with the activities highlighted by a Softball game. 
BYRON HAVES, JR. received his law degree at the end of the summer term at Notre Dame and is now associated with his father in the practice of law in Fort Wayne. 
PAUL SCHIRMEYER aUo finished his work for a Commerce degree and is now with the Central Soya Co. 
Two other new members of the Club are DAVE WARNER and TED SMITH. Both are new resi­dents in Fort Wayne. 
DICK DOERMER was in town for a very brief visit in between semesters at Cornell. He is slated to finish his law course at the end of the current term. TOM O'REILLY 
Greater Miami 
The club members were guests of VINCENT C. GIBLIN at his Down-Town Club, Miami, on Oct. 
6. The genial Vince personally inquired into the individual member's taste in regard to his steak. The dinner was a great success. 
Among those present were: RICHARD HANRI­HAN, JERRY HOLLAND, JOHN McGIWTH, HUGH McMANIGAL, HARRY ELMORE, HAR­RY LOMBARD, JAMES A. SMITH, MIKE ZO­NOVICH, GEORGE BRAUTIGAM, LOUIS GAS­PER, GERALD CURRIER, BILL NAGENGAST, BOB REILLY, JULES BERCIK. PARIS COW­ART, FRED PIOWATY, TOM CARROLL, BILL MacKENZIE, JERRY OULETTE, FRED JONES, GEORGE COURY, President I. L PROBST, W. 
D. ROWLANDS, BOB MARKLAND and our good friend, ROBERT M. LITTLE, prominent architect who designed the buildings for the new University of Miami. 
The Notre Dame Club of Miami welcomes all who may be in our vicinity in their travels to the mecca of the southlands. 
BOB MARKLAND SMITH, '38, treasurer; and ROBERT MARK­LAND, '32, secretary. 

Standing committees include: Membership and At­tendance—BOB MARKLAND, chairman, RICHARD SADOWSKI and JERRY OULLETTE; K«iin«— 
DON SMITH; Sludent-Alumni Relations and Job Counseling—HVGH McMANIGAL, chairman, and ROBERT REILLY; Entertainment — RICHARD HOURIHAN, chairman, FRED PIOWATY and 
TOM CARROLL; Religion and Citizenship—FARIS 
COWART, chairman, and WILLIAAt NAGENGAST. 
Indianapolis 
JOHN REYNOLDS, local Cathedral High School graduate, was recently auarded the Notre Dame scholarship sponsored by the club. This annnal award is open to high school graduates of all the Indianapolis schools, based on competitive examina­tions submitted to and graded by the College En­trance Examination Board, Princeton, N. J. 
PAT FISHER, executive secretary of the club and a member of the Scholarship Award Committee, has announced that the funds for this award are es­tablished through the proceeds of special football trains to the \'arious games each fall. 
The first special to the Purdue game proved to be a big success, with more than five hundred people aboard. Specials will also be run to the Navy, Northwestern and Southern California games. 
GEORGE T. O'CONNOR 

New York City 
Plans are underway for a special train trip to the campus for the Northwestern game on Nov. 13. The train will leave New York on the evening of Nov. 12, and return on Monday morning, Nov. 15. Those making the trip will use the Pullman for their "hotel" for the entire week-end. 
The fall program of club activities commenced with a meeting on Sept. 13. JACK LAVELLE did his usual fine job as SLC. JOHNNY LUJACK re­lated some of his experiences in professional foot­ball. RED SMITH, sports writer on the New York Herald-Tribune was also a guest speaker. 
The Annual Tnist Fund drive is once BO R nader wy, as this b written. The Committee leiiorts Aat, since the commeqcenient of its 'activity' in i95S,z* net total of $23,300 has been raised, o( wkick $11,000 has been disbursed in awards of icfaolanli^ to the Univcisity and $6,500 has been ghca t» Notre Dame in the name of our cfaib for tke'Ijnv Conference, ahmni fund, and the War Meaonal Fund; and that over $3,000 has been Jitliihilwl to local diarities. BOB HAMILTON, '28, it diair­man of the coounittcc^ 
ED TIGHE, chairman of the Annual i Breakfast, announces that the affair will be bdd at the Hotel Commodore on De c 5, and that CLAR­ENCE "PAT" MANION, dean of the NoCic DMMK Law School, will be the prindpoJ speaker.' ' 
WALTER A. DOmffiLLY' 

Spokane 
The fall meeting of the dub was the ormioe far a testimonial lEnner in honor of ROBERT EM­METT BROWN, '97, retiring head of the Federal Land Bank of Spokane. Mr. Brtmn, who reaea­ben FATHER SOKIN and FATHER ZAHM. made some interestii^ comparisons between the <-^«*r— of the 1940*3 and the old Notre Dame of the USO'i when he «>as winning his monogram. 
Showing of the campus fifan and the 1947 Foot­ball Highb'ghts made a hit. An especblly inteicsted spectator was.JIM ROTCHFORD, '48. who was smprised to see his brother, BOB, '48, in the-caa^ pus film. Jim is doing post-grad work at Goaaga here. BEN LENOUE, '31, told everyone who would listen about the new book; "The Big Game." BcB is.still interested in music—^as a matter of fact is raisil^ a family of musicians—but has little time to spare from his many duties, two of wfaldl' aie idl­ing Insurance and teaching a class at Gonzaga. 
TOM LALLY, '06, past president, <£stinguished lawyer and comtant spark plug of the dnb, was there. JIM LYNCH, '40, was last seen maki^'pha for a dub Communion-breakfast Dec. 5. JIM DUR­CAN, ex '24, never misses a N. D. meetiag. Be s district lepresenutive for the A. C . Horn Go. VINCE SLATT, '43, a busy dectrical ei^aecr, cares for the finances of the dub. FRANK HER­RON, '35, who is a person to reckon with in the jewelry world, master-minded the dnb comtitntioa some time back JOHN P. O'NEILL 
John K. Reynolds, I«{l, won the 1948 icholanhip of tho IndicnuipoBs Chib. Wodtar J. . Stuhldieher. center, ia ehainnan oi the dnb sdwlandiip conimilt— and 
Officers of the dub are I. I. PROBST, '26, presi­dent; FRED JONES, '47, vice-president; DON G. Don SuUiTan. lighL ia dob pntf denL 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Notre Dame Club of Kentucky Observes Its 25th Anniversary 
Members of the Kentucky 
REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, president of the Universit)-, gave the princi­pal address as the Kentucky Club obser\-ed its 25th anniversary with a dinner in the Brown Hotel, LouisWUe, on Sept. 20. REV. FRANCIS P. CWANAUGH, C.S.C, dean of the College of .\rts and Letters, and JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, alumni secre­tary, were also present from the University. 

Sixty-three of the 67 dues-paying members of the club were among the 361 at the din­ner. The following charter members were present: FRANK H. BRESLIN, FR.'MSIK B. BLOEMER, JOHN P. D.\NT, W. H. MILLS, CORNELIUS J. PFEIFFER and EDWARD H. PFEIFFER. 
The guests (see accompanying picture) included some of the most notable figures in Kentucky life. They were presented by JOSEPH F. DONALDSON, '23, toastmas­ter. JAMES EMMETT COSTELLO, '19, was chairman of the dinner and its marked success was due in large measure to his en­thusiasm, energy—and weeks of work. 
Father John Cavanaugh told the dinner that the spirit of Notre Dame comes from the family life of the students on the cam­pus and the University's insistence on the place of God in education. And he pointed out to the Kentuckians that their state had long had close ties with Notre Dame. Father Stephen Badin, first priest ordained in the United States, who is buried at Notre Dame, was a pioneer missionary in Ohio and Kentucky, he pointed out. 
"Father Badin purchased the land on which Notre Dame stands. He was, in a real sense, the pre-founder of Notre Dame," Father Cavanaugh declared. 
Father Cavanaugh also paid tribute to three Kentuckians who have played a con­spicuous part in Notre Dame life. The late FATHER LEONARD CARRICO, C.S.C, 
 Club and their guests at the club's 25lh anniretsary dinner Sept. 20* 
* At the head table, left to right, are: Col; Frank Fchr, member of Notre Dame's Rist football team; Brother John Joseph, principal, St. XaWer High School, Louis\'iIle; Mayor Charles P. Famsley, Louis\'ilIe; Bernard J. Lenahon, president Kentucky Chamber of Commerce; Rabbi Joseph Ranch; Rev. Frank Cav-anaugh, C.S.C, dean of the College of Arts and Letters; Dr. Irwin Abcll, Lactate medalist; Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame; Joseph F. Donaldson, toastmaster; James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary; William P. Kelley, Louisville chairman of Notre Dame Foundation; Dr. John W, Taylor, president. University of Louis­ville: Rev. Felix N. Pitt, director of parochial edu­cation, diocese of Louis\'ilIe; Frank B. Bloemer; Lt. Gov. LawTcnce H. Wcatherby of Kentucky; Brother Ricardo, principal, Flaget High School, Louisv-ille; and Charles G. Morrow, president, No­tre Dame Club of Kentucky. 
was once director of studies at Notre Dame, he recalled, while DR. JOHN M. COONEY was for many years head of the Department of Journalism. A third Kentuckian, DR. IRWIN ABELL, Louisville, was the winner of Notre Dame's famous Laetare Medal in 1938 for his services to the Church and to mankind. 
The club ran an 11-car special train to the Purdue game, carr>-ing a sellout crowd of 350, and the special train to the North­western game was a sellout early in October. On the latter train 50 orphans will go along as guests of the club. Food and refreshments for them will be provided by local bene­factors. 
The club bowling season started in Sep­tember with 20 members participating on four teams. This promises to be the club's best bowling season since the war. 
Mohawk Valley 
PROF. JOHN H. SHEEHAN, former resident of Utica, N. Y., now the head of the Department of 
Economics at Notre Dame, was the chief speaker as the club on Sept. 9 sponsored a dinner in the Utica Hotel, Utica. An eight-point program to help achieve industrial peace between labor and man­agement was presented by Professor Shcehan. 
REV. ROBERT H. SWEENEY, C.S.C, executive assistant to the president, was another campus rep­resentative and speaker. Father Sweeney discussed Not--e Dame's philosophy of education. 
One hundred forty-five persons, including many representatives of management and labor and a large quota of present Notre Dame students, were present. Especially welcome were a group of Professor Shee­han's friends from the American Express Co., where he was formerly employed. DON FULLEKI was chairman of the dinner, assisted by FRANK DON­.ALTY, CHARLIE HITZELBERGER, BOB LACK­EY, VINCE FLETCHER, MIKE McGUIRL, JR., EARL HACKETT, ED SWEENEY and LOUIS CLARK. Mike McGuirl did a splendid job of in­teresting the present Notre Dame students. 
Frank Donalty presided in the absence of DR. FRANK MARINO, club president, who was called away from the dinner. City Judge Walsh was the £; toastmaster. ^ 
New Jersey 
Our annual Freshmen Welcome early in September was a marked success. Seventeen freshmen were there, along with 14 fathers and many upperdassmen and alumni, and they all saw and liked the campus film in sound and color from the University. JO­SEPH M. BYRNE and RAY GEIGER welcomed the new Notre Dame students. HANK BORDA was chairman of the afliair and TOM HOGAN was vice chairman. 
TOM FARRELL and BILL MAHON as chairman and vice chairman, respectively, ran the Football Rally sponsored by the club on Oct. 25 at the New­ark Athletic Club. The football film from the Uni­versity, "The Highlights of the 1947 Football Sea­son,'* was shown. 
The club ran a special train to the Navy game m Baltimore on Oct. 30 with DAN O'NEILL and PETE QUINN in charge. 
Officers of the club are GERRY FROELICH '27 president; ELMER MATTHEWS, '47, vice-president-BILL WALDRON, '44, secretary; CLARK REY­NOLDS, '38, treasurer. Directors are FRANK Mc-DERMITT, -23, PETE QUINN, '33, ED KIRBY '36, GEORGE PLAIN, '39, PHIL HEINLE '35 and DAN O'NEILL, '26. BILL WALDRON 
Volume 26, No. 6, Nov.-Dec, 1948 
Panama 
LORENZO RAMAGOSA was host on Oct. 7 at a luncheon at the Panama Golf Club in honor of REV. WILLIAM F. CUNNINGHAM, C.S.C., of the University. Father Cunningham was returning from La Paz, Bolivia, where he served as official representative for the National Catholic Education A^odation at the recent meeting of the Catholic Inter-American Education Conference. Members and guests at the luncheon included, Iiesides Father Cunningham, JOSE CARDENAS, RAMON RAMO­GOSA, PABLO DURAN, WILLIAM SHERIDAN, LEO J. KRZIZA and LORENZO RAMOGOSA. 
The club had a dinner at the Union Club on Sept. I in honor of JOSE CARDENAS and JACK SWAIN. The former was leaving for Italy to con­tinue his architectural studies in city planning and Mr. Swain was returning to Notre Dame to con­tinue work toward his master's degree. 
LEO J. KRZIZA 

Portland 
The summer was marked by a showing of the "Football Highlights of 1947," with 25 dub members present. Early in October the officers met at the University of Portland to map out the dub program for remainder of the year. Definitely set were the annual Communion-breakfast on Dec. 5, to be held at the University- of Portland, and Universal Notre Dame Night on April 25. A business meeting is on the program for a date in the spring still to be determined. 
Officers for the year are ED SANDSTROM, pres­ident; DORWIN PALMER, vice-president; FRED CUNNINGHAM, secretary-treasurer. Director are DOMINIC CALLICRATE, ROBERT MOLIN and PETE SANDROCK. 
St. Louis 
As this is written, we are in the midst of our annual Scholarship Fund Drive. Enthusiasm is run­ning high under the able leadership of JACK GRIF­FIN, *39, and it is expected that this will be our best year to date. 
BOB HELLRUNG, '30, gave a ver>- interesting and informative talk at a recent meeting when a welcome was given to new students and their dads. 
Our dub will be well represented at the coming Northwestern game as this is our only football trip scheduled this year. Club President FRED McNEILL, '36, reports that the several hundred resen'ations were taken up immediately. 
WALTER GEORGE 

% Washington^ D. C. 
The September meeting was attended by about 100 members. All prospective freshmen from the Washington area were invited to meet each other and some of the older graduates, prior to leaving for school. All members of the campus club still in town were also invited. 
The dub presented a supply of stationery to the Washington, Mar^-land and Virginia campus dub. It was accepted by GUY PERENICK, president of the dub. 
PAUL TULLY outlined plans for the Navy Game Rally held Oct. 29, at the Washington Hotel. A movie of the highlights of the 1947 football games was shown. At the October meeting TOM O'REIL­LY was appointed chairman of Universal Notre Dame Communion Breakfast to be held Dec. 5. 
Dr. Leo Stock, historian and philosopher, gave an interesting address on "An Historical Approach to the Problems of Church and State." Dr. Stock is a consultant in the Division of Hbtorical Research in the Carnegie Institute in Washington and a pro­fessor of History at Trinity College. A past president of the American Catholic Historical Association, he is the author of "Consular Relations between the United States and the Papal States." 
JOSEPH P. McNAMARA, '29, after some time in this area, left us for Bridgeport, Conn. 
New members in the Washington area are L. C. BOYKIN, J. A. GAGNIER, BERNARD J. GHIG­LIERI, R. E. BURKE, GEORGE J. SCHILL, THOMAS P. GAILBRAITH, CHARLES E. KEL­LEY, LT. COL. J. F. BRIXTON, JAMES C. O'CONNOR, JR. and ADAM J. WOLF. 
THOMAS J. FLYNN 
L.A. FOOTBALL PABTY 
The Los Angeles Club will spon­sor a gigantic raU; on Dee. 3 in tha Philhazmonic Auditorium. Fiitli and Olives Sts., opposite the Biltmore HoteL Los Angeles. Enlertoinnnient by Hollywood stars. Tickets $1.20 to $3.60. with proceeds to Notre Dome Fotindation. For reserratians. write Gene Colhoun. Boom 212. 704 S. Spring St., Los Rngelea. 

Western Pennsylvania 
The club held its annual pre-game Smoker in the dining room of the Ro>al York Apartments in Pitts­burgh on Oct. 1. A large crowd of alumni and other friends of Notre Dame gathered to renew old friendships. 
REV. JOHN H. MURPHY, C.S.C, University \-ice-president, paid us a visit, along with BIIL DOOLEY of the Alumni Assodation, and HERB JONES, MOOSE KRAUSE, BILL EARLEY. HUGHIE BURNS and JOHN McALUSTER of the .Athletic Department and DR. SHERALAN EAGAN, the team ph>'sician. 
FATHER VINCENT P. BRENNAN, a director of the Alumni Association, and Father P^ul Lackner, diocesan director of the Holy Name Sodety, were also present. 
The committee chairman, ED McHUGH, and his committeemen, JACK. MONTEVERDE and CARL LINK, did a fine job and had the satisfaction of knowing it was one of the best attended smokers held preceding the Pitt-N. D. football game. 
BOB CHAMBERLAIN 

The annual Communion-Breakfast of the dub has been scheduled for Sunday, Dec. 5, at Sacred Heart Church, Shady Avenue and Walnut St., at the 
9:45 Mass. The breakfast immediately following will be held in the new Sacret Heart School and the speaker will be Rev. Thomas F. Coakley, D.D., the pastor. He will speak on ^'American Representatives at the Vatican." 
Western Washington 
A meeting, scheduled for Oct. 20 in Scatde, was to feature a showing of the movie "Highlights of the 1947 N. D. Football Season." Chairman LEO CUMMINGS, '33, was to report on the sales to date in connection with the trip (for two) to SouUi Bend and the Notre Dame-Washington football game, Nov. 27. The drawing will be on Nov. 16 at a dub party. Proceeds will be used to entertain the Notre Dame team in Scatde in 1949. 
Friends of JOHN ENGLISH, *33, president of the dub, were saddened to learn of the death of his wife. Vera, Aug. 31, as a result of poliomyelitis. The dub sponsored a requiem high Mass for Mrs. English on Sept. 11. John moved to Tacoma Oct. 1, where he is assodated with his brother in the 
J. D. English Steel Co. 
EMMETT LENIHAN, '15, (attorney) was elected department commander of the American Legion at the state convention in Tacoma, Aug. 26. 
JOHN BOESPFLUG, '33, of the J. C. Boespflug Construction Co., is one of the busiest men in town since his firm has the contracts for a major share of a 2(^million dollar building program at the Uni­versity of Washington. 
PHIL HOSTERMAN, >37, «!>«»•« with the Eastmu Tag & Label Co., is dotng a fine job om that free trip to Notre Dame for the Waihi^toa game. Hb sales carcoit takes him around the state. 
MORRIE SCHAFER. >37, of Montesano (Wash.) and the Schafer Lumber Co., showed up at the July 6 cfinneMiasce with his lovely bride and six guests. Morrie is one o | the most enthmiastxc sop-porters of Notre Dame. 
JOE HORRIGAN. '34, is ahnost entirely recover­ed from tuberculosis that kept lum in % sanitarium for six montlis and at tionie for a'w>thrr ^.^^ ?car' 
JERRY KANE 
Biff RoocA Rvtirt 
WnUAM G. BOACH 

Fifty-five years as a barber. Bill Roach felt, was justification enough for his recent retirement as manager of the Notre Dame barber shop. For more than a quarter of a^ century. Bill had been at Notre Dame—one of the school's best known people. 
Bill—officially, William G.—^was bom in Akron, O., and came to Notre Dame in 1921. In 1923, he was named manager of the barber shop, in the days when it was on the ground floor of Washington Hall. In 1932, the shop moved to its present quarters in Badin Hall. The staff, which was made up of three barbers in 1923 and now num­bers six, comprised its greatest number dur­ing the war years, when eight barbers were kept busy trimming the heads of the Navy and the Marine trainees, the civilian stu­dents and the Commimity members. 
Bill and his wife reside at 721 Corby Blvd. in South Bend. His daughter, Jose­phine, of Xx)uisville, a St. Mary's graduate, is married to Norman L. Johnson, a Notre Dame graduate of 1936. 
Presidents of the University, famous names among the students, scared freshmen, —^Bill worked on them all during his days on the campus. But who does he consider his most famous ciutomer? 
That one was easy for him. His quick answer: Knute K. Rockne. Leonard McC!ollum, for years a barber in the Notre Dame shop, is the new manager. 
The Notre Dcane Aliimnus 

Engagements 
Miss Helen M. O'DonncU and RUDOLPH J. ANDERSON, '47. 
Miss Rosa Amalia Fernandez and THO^L^S C. CLEMENS, '44. 
Miss Mar>' Lou Ley and FR.-\NCIS J. DELAN­EY. '43. 
Miss Mar>- Jane Sa\-arj- and FRANK V. GRIM\L­DI, '47. 
Miss Patricia Scanlon and ROBERT E. PRICE, ex. '50. 
Miss Rosemarj- Barry and PATRICK J. SMID, '47. 

Marriages 
Miss Catherine Brogan and VINCENT BORYLA, JR., ex '48, Ogallala, Neb., Sept. 18. 
ifiss Sally Ann McLain and WALTER J. BREN­N.AN, JR., '41, Washington, D. C , Oct. 9. 
Miss Rita Marie Da\-is and JOHN P. CRIMMINS, ex '43, South Bend^ Sept. 4. 
Miss Ruth Iris McDoweU and JOHN L. DAY­TON, ex '46, Waukesha, Wis., Oct. 16. 
Miss Mary Jane Vaughn and JOHN T. DOYLE, '48, South Bend, Sept. 18. 
Miss Jo Rita Schulthcis and RICHARD P. EL­LIOTT, '48, South Bend, Oct. 4. 
Miss Jennie Balka and JOHN J. FEARON, JR., '43, South Bend, Oct. 23. 
Miss Aon Marie Hueber and RAYMOND A. GEIGER, '32, Newark, N. J., Sept. 25. 
Miss Bei-erly Ebine Oilman and MELVIN W. GELBER, '44, South Bend, Aug. 22. 
Miss Marie Therese Roach and A. REGIS KEL­LEY, ex '36, Toronto, Canada, Sept. 4. 
HDss Margaret Louise Callan and JEROME P. LEDVINA, '38, San Antonio, Tex., Sept. 1. 
lUss Winifred McLaughlin and LAWRENCE F. O'CONNOR, '46, Mishawaka, Ind., Sept. 4. 
Miss Rosina Morra and DONALD J. O'NEILL, '40, South Bend, Sept. 11. 
Miss Ursula. Mnna Petzke and JOHN G. POU­LIN, '40, South Bend, Sept. 11. 
Miss Virginia M. Czamecki and FRANK V. RO­SANOVA, ex '49, Notre Dame, Aug. 21. 
Miss Patricia Hickey and GER.-MID F. SARD, '48. South Bend. Oct. 16. 
Miss Satah Jo Caudill and HOWARD J. SCHELL­ENBERG, '42, Pawhuska, Okla., Oct. 16. 
Miss Joan Kathryn Vandcualle and GEORGE 
H. SCHILLING, '48, South Bend, Oct. 9. 
Miss Patricia MacArthur and ROBERT C. SCHROEDER, '39, White Plains, N. Y., July 22. 
Miss Evelyn Louise Weikel and ROBERT J. SHAW, '47, Tulsa, Okla., Sept. 29. 
Miss Barbara Jean Murphy and FRANKLIN H. 
•STUART, U, '43, MUton, Mass., Oct. 12. 
Miss Therese Kathleen Ca\-anaugh and CORNE­LIUS J. STYERS, '48, Harpers Ferry, la., Aug. 17. 
Miss Elizabeth Longenecker and J. THOMAS TIMMONS, JR., ex '47, Mishawaka, Ind., Oct. 2. 
Miss Sylvia Latkou-ski and DANIEL J. TOMCIK, '44, Notre Dame, Oct. 23. 
Miss Virginia C. Beecher and FRANK A. VEIT, JR., '42, Grand Rapids, Mich., June 23. 
Miss Margaret Rose Doian, daughter of M. Ed­wud Doran, '20, and DAVID E. WALTER, ex '48, South Bend, Oct. 2. 
Club Luncheons 
CENTRAL OHIO (Columbus) — Uni­versity Club—every Monday 
CHICAGO — Deutsch's Bestaiirant 28 N. Dearborn St.— every third Wednesday 
DES MOINES—Savoy Hotel —every first Friday 
INDIANAPOLIS—Canary Cottoge— every Tuesday 
MILWAUKEE — Maryland Hotel — every Thursday 
ST. LOUIS — Victorian Club. 3719 Washington Ave.—every Monday 
TULSA—Mayo Hotel — every third Friday 
VIBGINIA (Richmond)—Eworts Cafe­teria—every second Wednesday 
Other Club Meetings 
AKRON — Kraker's Old Heidelberg Restaurant—every first Tuesday 
CINCINNATI — Hotel Alms — every second Tuesday (6:30 pjn.) 
FLORIDA (Miami)—^Downtown Club every first Monday (5:30 pjn.) 
NEW YORE—Waldorf-Astoria Hotel every second Wednesday (8 pjn.) 

Born fo 
Mr. and Mis. THEODORE J. ABEL, '30, tmns, a son and daughter, Oct. 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. MARCELLUS F. BALL, '38, a daughter, Oct. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD L. BOYLE, JR., '38, a daughter, Mary Sue, Oct. 1. 
Dr. and Mis. ROBERT L. BR.AUNSDORF, ex '30, a daughter, Oct. 19. 
Mr. and Mis. JOSEPH BROUSSARD, H, '26, a daughter, Regina Annette, Aug. 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS A. CANNON, '33, a son, Thomas A., Jr., Sept. 19. 
Mr. and Mis. ALBERT D. CAREY, '36, a ion, Kevin Patrick, July 19. 
Mr. and Mis. ROBERT L. CARPENTER, '44, a daughter, Roberta Lynne, July 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. HAROLD L. COLEMAN, ex '50, a son, Michael Patrick, Sept. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. JEROME J. CROWLEY, JR., '31, a daughter, Oct. 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. WARREN A. DEAHL, '41, a son, Aug. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROGER DiGIOJA, '43, a son, Paul Andrew, Feb. 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. W.\LTER W. FEGAN, '41, a son, Kevin, Sept. 4. 
Mr. and Mis. PATRICK J. FISHER, '36, a son, Michael Regan, Aug. 30. 
Mr. and Mis. JOHN T. FOGARTY, '23, a son, John Thomas, Jr., Aug. 16. 
Mr. and Mis. MAURICE N. FRANK, '39, a son, Oct. 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES M. GARTLAND, '41, a daughter, Kathleen, Aug. 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE S. GEISSLER, '41, a son, Sept. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. WALTER J. GEREND, '39, a daughter, Kathleen Mary, Sept. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. GRANT, '28, a flaughter, Margaret Ann, Sept. 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL A. GUARNIERI, '36, a son, Paul Arthur, Jr., Aug. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE A. HANINGER, '43, a daughter, Ellen Marie, Oct. 2. 
Mr. and Mis. GERALD A. HICKEY, '41, a son, Sept. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT F. HOLTZ, '38, a son, Michael Joseph, Aug. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH E. JACOB, '43, a son, Joseph Edward, Sept. 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRED A. JONES, '47, a son, John Frederick, July 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. CECIL A. JORDAN, '40, a daugh­ter, Aug. 27. . . . 
Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE J. KELLEY, '42, a daughter, Nano Elizabeth, Aug. 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS B. KENEDY, '42, a daughter, Elizabeth Ann, Oct. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. KLISE, JR., '38, a son, John J., Ill, July 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE E. KOCHANOWSKI, '39, a daughter, Aug. 25. 
Mr. and Mis. DONALD H. KOTZ, '43, a daugh­ter, Sarah Lynn, Sept. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. DONALD G. LEIS, '43, a daughter, Mary-Anne, July 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM P. M.AHONEY, JR., '39, a daughter, Gladys Sullivan, July 30. 
.Mr. and Mis. MELVIN G. MEYERS, '34, a son. Richard Michael, Sept. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. MITSCH, '33, a son, Robert Louis, Aug. 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. P. MURPHY, '47, a son Michael Patrick, July 31. 
Mr. and Mis. JOHN B. O'DONOGHUE, ex '45, a son, Sean Burke, Aug. 16. 
Volume 26, No. 6, Nov.-Dec, 1948 
Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE J. O'REILLY, '35, a son, William Edward. Oct. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. GERALD C. OROSZ, '42, a son, Gerald Charles, Aug. 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN M. PILARSKI, '36, a slaughter, Maribeth, Sept. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. PLOUFF, '38, a son, John F., Jr., Oct. 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. JACOB M. REICHENSTEIN, '42, a daughter, Sept. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK J. REILLY, '37, a son,, Kevin William, Sept. 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND J. RUETZ, '44, a son, Sept. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK X. SCHAEFER, '38, a daughter, Jessica Macken, Oct. 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. WILLIAM SCHEUCH, '44, a son, Michael Joseph, July 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. OSCAR C. VON ALLMEN, JR., ejc '46, a son, Gaylor Allen, Oct. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM A. WEILER, '48, a daughter, Linda Ann, Aug. 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLUM J. WISHING, '47, a daughter, Aug. 31. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN S. ^VITTLIFF, '32, a son, Philip James, May 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. HERMAN A. ZITT, '48, a daugh­ter, Madeline Joan, Oct. 13. 

Deaths 
REV. JOHN G. MCGINN, G.S.G., '06, 69 years old, first full-time secretary of the Alumni Association, died on Sept. 14 in the Gommunity Infirmary at Notre Dame after a long illness. 
One of the most widely known and res­pected of the Congregation's priests. Father McGinn achieved national prominence both as a professor of sociology and as an alumni administrator and the principal executive in Notre Dame's first endo\vment campaign, in the early 1920's. 
Ordained in 1910, Father McGinn re­ceived his S.T.L. from Catholic University, Washington, D. C , in the same year. In 1921 he was appointed the first fiiU-time secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Associ­ation and in 1922 was instrumental in founding the ALUMNUS. He retired because of illness three years ago. 
Surviving him are three sisters and two brothers, all of Providence, R. I., where Father McGinn was bom on Sept. 10, 1879. 
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., was celebrant of the funeral Mass for Father McGinn on Sept. 18 in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. Rev. Dean O'Donnell, C.S.C, was deacon and Rev. Augustine Reverado, C.S.C, sub-deacon. Burial was in the Com­munity Cemetery. 
[Father McGinn's death takes away a memorable figure, a man to whom in large measure the present stature of the Alimmi Association is due, a teacher and an execu­tive of rare ability. The ALUMNUS, feeling a particular debt of gratitude, pauses to pay tribute to him, tq offer prayers for the re­pose of his soul and to ask innimierable readers to do likewise. RIP—Eds.] 
BEV. JOHN C. McGINN. CS. C 

REV. ROBERT J. WAICHtn-IS, C.S.C., '41, a missionary in Bengal, was drowned on May 26, 1948. He was buried at Ranikhong, East Pakistan; India. 
Bom Aug. 3, 1918, Father Waichulis was orduocd to the pncsthcmd on June 10, 1945. He is survived by a brother and a sister. 
REV. AUGUST J. RATH, ' •y pastor of St. Boniface Church, Elmont, L. I., N. Y., died on Aug. 28. He was 68 years old. 
Ordained to the priesthood in 1912 at St. John Seminary, Brooklyn, N. Y., Father Rath served in parishes in Brooklyn until 1929, when he was as^gn­ed to St. Patrick's Church, Southold, L. I. He was assigned to his final pastorate in 1931. 
Father Rath was buried in the St. Boniface par­ish cemetery on Sept. 1, following the requiem &bss. He is survived by two brothers. 
KLEOPHAS N. BARDZH., '23, of Pittsburgh, Pa., died suddenly in Brooklyn, N. Y., on Sept. U. A member of the legal division of the Veterans Administration in Pittsburgh, he was ^^iting in Brooklyn when he flied. 
"K" was a student in both the Harvard Law School and the Duquesne Law School after he left Notre IJame. During the late war he served mth the United States Coast Guard, much of the time aboard a destro^'cr escort. 
PAUL G. FUNK, '24, lifelong resident of Elgin. III., and an attorney there for 23 years, died in the Presbyterian Hospital, Chicago, on Sept. 6, follow­ing a brief illness. He is survived by his wfife, a son and a daughter, his father and two sisten. 
An outstanding journalist while he was still a sto­dent at Notre Dame and an editor of the Notre Dame Dailyt Paul was later sports editor, for a short time, of the £f£in Courier. IVactidng law, he became one of the leading lawyers of his area, a> a member of the firm of Beverly, Funk and Odifaen. A member of the K. of C , the Elks and the Eagles, he was also a director of the Catholic Charities, -n troop committeeman for the Boy Scouts and active in the Izaak Walton League, the Elgin Assodation of Commerce and the St. Edward's Father's Chib. 
Paul was buried in Mt. Hope cemetery* E^n, following the requiem Mass ini St. Mary's Chordi. 
EDWARD J. LeCOUTEUR, '48, died on Sept. 19 in the Veterans* Hospital in Hines, HI., after aa illness of six weeks. He was buried on S^rt. 23 in Highland Cemetery, South Bend, after a requSeM \fass in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, offered by Rev. Thomas Brennan, CS.C. He is survived by his wife and his son, Edward James, Jr., of Soath Bend. 
A veteran of World War H, Ed served, as a lieutenant in the Army Air Force and, later, indi the AMericn fidd i received hii A.B. v^& 1 
THOMAS'A.. DALYi LLJ>., '17, OTO-kamni m a caapai ku«m la eariar gnHa. tioMcif Noire Vtme-mem, dkd «• Oct. 4 at Ai age of 77. A aewvapcr coinate of mOtbrnm, fea was fiailMalaiiy auteil a> a MIII U ot ItaaaB < 
The ALDionis ' JOHN P. ENGUSH,- "SS,. oa the deadi «l kit «il ^ to DONALD FUIXCM, '31, am Ike ikaA •( !• aMOer; to K(»EKT K., "Zi, aad GEOMat W. OOKDOSi '27. oa the death of their Bolhar: ta EUGENE If. HINES. '23, oa Oe dnth of hii wife: to KEV. GECMtGE^L. BOUnOIH. CXC. 'IS, oa the deadi of hii aaiAer: la CASDIIR B. VANCE, '38, aatf WALTEK C IVANCEVia '« . oa the death of ihdr lather; to JK»N • . LAW. '30, oa the death of his loa; to >EV. WIUJAlf McNAMAKA. C.S.C. '17, oa the death af hii lather; to PETER H. UAKIELSKI, ea '21,-«• die death of his laodier; to GtOtSBX A. SCXKJCK, nS, oa the deadi of his wile; to WILUAM B . TUCKER, JR., '40, oa-the death of U t^ia*. 
Fersoaofs 
Before 1900 
Rev. John A. MacNamaia, St Jonph ­Mineral Baths, Mt. Qemeiis, IlCch. 

FATHER JOHN IbcNAMARA, '97. nile i la Mt. rirmrai, ICdi., that .he has letcadr < several verr ha|ipr viHti there with JOE lIURfHr ;il, of Darton, O., aad hn wifc Ua. Ifci^ IS the ojiiglitcf of the wdt-rctocnilmcd ^at ShaWT who operated die South Bead-Nolre Dane hack ia the 'SOS, before the dajs of &e Nolre'DuK Iroler. 
Father Mac.had abo had a visit with Bit Ucfjaia­ness and his wife, iuw of Chicago. Uac was for mamf yean the saperinteadeat of hnilHiags oa die caa^ai. FAIHER HARRY STEGMAN, CAC . iiiiiliiB ia St. Peter's parish ia Ht. Clrmrm, aloag with VAN WALLACE, aaolher Ht. Oemeaa nndeal. wilfc Father Mac, keep doadr in touch wi&.Nom DiBt afiain. He is able to offer Bfass cadi day. 
DR. JOHN V. DUCEY, dentist ia Reao, Ncr., pnctices in tlie Byington BMg., aad residct ia taa 
BTahoidlr is a Mcanl pidnn ef lar. M M X. mma. V.ML OMMI, Mielb F«r OTMT SB yMBCS fli dWOMQ MQV9; <DM CI SaBBUV nQ W IB.,HtlTO 
icdm,. fuUnt Mac- is m^cnUmf «i 
26 
Hotel Golden. . He was a Notre Dame student from 1892 to 1897. 
EMMETT BROWN, a student in the late '90s, recently retired as head of the Federal Land Bank of Spokane, Wash., and will reside in Montana and in southern California. Mr. Brown along with his late brothers, EARL and ED, also Notre Dame men, was a prominent banker and lumberman in Montana before he went to Spokane in 1940­
1900-04 
Robert E. Proctor, Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Ind. 

The retirement of FATHER ERNEST DAVIS, C.S.C., was announced recently. Father Da\-is, who had ser\ed the University of Portland continuously for 24 >xars, first came to the then Columbia Uni­versity in 1909 and remained until 1912. Returning to Notre Dame, he taught there for the following 12 >*ears, until 1924. Father Davis was honored at a small diimer in the University Club in Portland where his appointment as professor emeritus of chem­istry was announced. He is now living in Corby Hall at Notre Dame. 
19 10 

Rev. Michael L. Moriart>', St. Catherine's Church, 3443 E. 93rd St., Cleveland 4, 0. 
From FATHER MIKE: 
Perhaps in an earlier edition we mentioned the 
trip this sunmier to Wilmington, Del., where we 
witnessed the marriage of RED ^^LLER's daughter. 
Sheila, to William McInt>Te. Red and I decided 
at that time that we would engineer plenty news 
for the Class of 1910. But here we arc. Perhaps the 
lack of news might prompt some of the old timers 
to submit. 
Notre Dame was well represented at the consecra­tion of our new Cleveland Cathedral. VERY REV. FATHER THOMAS A. STEINER, C.S.C, attend­ed and graciously \'isited St. Catherine's. 
Our fiftieth annivcrs3r>' here at St. Catherine's we celebrate Sunday, Oct. 24. Incidentally our Church was consecrated on Oct. 24, 1929. We arc hoping for some Notre Dame representation on the occasion of a Solemn Pontifical Mass of Thanks­giving. 
Thereafter we might be inveigled to think about a ^m e on the campus. 
19 13 
Paul R. B>Tne, University Library, Notre Dame, Ind. 

The Saturday Evening Post of Aug. 7 said in an article on Indianapolis that AL FEENEY "is the first Catholic mayor of the town, and obser\'ers were surprised during the campaign that the religious issue—hitherto a \-ioIent one in this once Klan-ridden state—did not seem important." 
1914 
Ira W. Hurley 231 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, 111. 

From IRA W. HURLEY: I talked over the phone last week \v\ih TWOMEY CLIFFORD who was in Chicago for a few hours visiting his brother after returning from Notre Dame where he had been with his son, Mike, %%'ho has just become a member of the freshman class and is residing in Breen-Phillips Hall. Twomey tolfl me that on his way to Notre Dame they had stopped at Lafayette and enjoyed a short visit with CH.ARLIE VAUGHN. 
He also gave me the information that he had met TOM CURRY at Notre Dame and that Tom was seeing about the registration of his son. The second generation of the class of 1914 seems to be fairly well represented at the present time, includ­ing as it does, sons of RAY XHLLER, JOE SNOTH, TWOMEY CLIFFORD, TOM CURRY, WALTER CLEMENTS and my own two sons. There ar« probably others whose names I" do not have. 
I had the pleasure recently of being instrumental 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
EDWARD W. MEHBEN, '32 

EDWARD W. MEHREX, '32, president of the Squirt Company, Beverely Hills, Calif., was recently elected first president of a new organization, the National Brands Soft Drink Institute, representing 2,500 independent bottlers of soft drinks in the United States. 
The countrj-'s foremost advocate of some "in-between coins," like 2'/=, 7'/= and 12'/j­cent pieces, Ed has written and talked ex­tensively in his campaign, and traveled thousands of miles since early in 1948. On July 27, two identical bills providing for the coinage of 7-cent pieces were introduced in the House of Representatives, and the same bills will be reintroduced in the 8Ist Congress. 
"There is e\'idence on every hand," Ed writes, "that pricing of low-priced commo­dities is based more on convenience than on value. . . . We demand convenience and convenience coins to such an extent that we are content to pay more than we should for what we buy. . . . The addition of several more convenience-coins to the currency would tend to bring pricing in periods of relative stability closer to actual values. The resulting savings to consumers would be con­siderable. . . . When a nickel product can no longer sell for a reasonable profit at five cents, the price all too frequently jumps to the next convenience-coin .. . a dime." 
Thus Ed's campaign. You'll hear and see more of it. 
in sending an item of business to JIMAflE ROB­INS at Nogales, Ariz. I am happy to report that Jim did an excellent job. 
In the recent case in Santa Fe, N. &lex.» concern­ed with those who seek to bar Catholic Fcligious and CathoIic-o\%'ned schools from the public school sys­tem of the State, CHARLES FAHY was one of the attorneys for the defendants. He is the fonner U. S. solicitor general. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1915 
James E. Sanford 509 Cherry St., Winnetka, 111. 

The fifth son of the EICHENLAUB family of Columbus, O., enrolled at Notre Dame this fall. RUPERT F. EICHENLAUB is the name. Young Rupe was named for the late RUPE MILLS, a teammate of Ri\Y, SR. 
1917 
Bernard J. Voll 206 E. Tutt St., South Bend, Ind. 

New ofHccs of the Layne-Northwest Co. are in a new company building at 6005 W. Martin Drive, Milwaukee, Wis. ED ROGERS, president of the company, is proud to report that customers of the La>-ne-Xorthwest will at last be able to park their cars without having to hunt for space half an hour or walk five or six blocJu! Fonner offices were in downtown Milwaukee. The company, afHIiated with Layne & Bo\%Ier, Inc.. installs and ser\'ices water pumping equipment in Wisconsin. 
1920 
Leo B. Ward, 458 Spring St., Los Angeles 3, Calif. 

Father Pat Maguire, M.A., *20, became the RT. REV. MSGR. PATRICK A. MAGUIRE on Oct. 17 in Salt Lake City, Utah. At the investiture in the Catbeflral of the Madeline, Most Rev. Duane 
G. Hunt, bishop of Salt Lake City, officiated and preached the sermon. The ALUMNUS, in the name of the Alumni Association, offers warmest congratu­lations to Monsignor Maguire. 
1921 
Dan W. Duffy, 1101 N.B.C. 
Building, Cleveland 14, O. 

AL ABRAMS of Atlanta was recently chosen "Pas­senger of the ^fonth" by the employees of Delta Airlines. As president of A. R. ABRAMS, con­tractors, he is a frequent Delta passenger. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 39 Cambridge St., Rochester 7, N. Y. 

From KID ASHE: 
FATHER GEORGE FISCHER, C.S.C., has been appointed a trustee of the latest college to come under operation of the Holy Cross Congregation. The institution carries the name of Stonehtll Col­lege, and already is being called "Notre Dame of the East." It is located at North Easton, Mass., on the former Fred Lathrop Ames estate. 
JIM McCABE of Los Angeles is now affiliated wiih the Beau Brummel Neckwear Co. Upon very special occasions, he has been seen wearing a red beret. When STEPHEN EUGENE CARAiODY reads this, he will make the welkin ring with some high-sounding descriptive adjectives. 
BUCK SHAW's San Francisco '49'ers of the All America Football Conference are undefeated thus far in the season's play. As this is written, they are tied with the Cleveland Browns for the top position in league standing, and are second to none in home attendance. 
Men of *22 are delighted with the surprise victorj* scored by EDDIE ANDERSON'S Iowa football team o\-er Ohio State in their recent game at Columbus. 
If you are down Connecticut %vay, do not neglect to stop at Stratford, Conn., to say hello to DR HAROLD OESAU. Harold was graduated from Jefferson Medical College in Phihdelphia in 1926. He interned in St. Francis Hospital, Hartford, Conn., and has been practicing medidne in Strat­ford since 1928. The Oesau*s have three children-Harold, Jr., 17, Anne Gorman, 13, and Terry, 3. 
Notre Dame football pla>-ers—rivals of Fred (Duke) Slater when he won ail-American honors at Iowa in the early '20s—paid tribute to the Negro 
Volume 26, No. 6, Nov.-Dec, 1948 
candidate for Municipal court judge at a get-to­gether in Chicago on Oct. 1. In that group were some members of the 1921 Notre Dame team— JUDGE ROGER KILEY, GUS DESCH, OJAY LARSON, DR. JOHN MOHARDT, HUNK AN­DERSON and BUCK SHAW—prominent when Iowa and Slater defeated Notre Dame in 1921. 
ARCH WARD reports in the Chi Trib that "HARRY MEHRE, former coach at Georgia and Ole Miss, is selling a new soft drink and continues WTiting a football column for southern newspapers." 
1923 
Paul H. Castner, 1305 W. Arlington Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 
From PAUL CASTNER: 

Here aie a few notes gathered at commencement from members of the class: 
TONY JACKSON lives in Assumption, III., and is a farmer. He has quite a family, bo>-s 21, 18, 15, 9, 4, and 1— girls 13 and 6, a total of sue bo>-s and two girb. I believe that is a record for the class, and I'm glad to know that Tony runs a farm, for I wouldn't like to try to pay the grocery bill on his family in the city. Congratulations, Tony, on that fine family! 
HENRY LAUERMAN lives in Menominee, Mich., is in the general merchandising business and has three children, Elizabeth 14, Henry, Jr., 12, and Dorothy age 7. 
DR. "CHICK" DORAN is an orthopedic doctor, lives in Akron, 0.» and has five cjilldren, a boy 12 and another 5, and girls 10, 9, and 2 years. 
ED KELLY is an attorney in Emmetsburg, la.; he and RUSTY KENNEDY married sisters. Ed's family includes bo>-s M and 12, and a girl 8 years old. 
D.\N LYNCH lives in Hammond, Ind., he prac­tices law. The Lynches have a boy 13 and a girl 22. 
FRANK GALVIN is another lawyer in Hammond and has a boy, age 5. 
AL PICKS is in the brokerage business in Phoe­nix, Ariz., a member of the N. Y. Stock Exchange and has two daughters, both seniors in college. One is at St. Mary's and the other at Barry College in Miami, Fla. 
BILL HASKINS lives in Jackson Heights, Long Island, N. Y., and has one daughter, a senior at Convent Station. 
JOHN MELVIN ROHRBACH is with the Lake County Title Company at Crown Point, Ind., and has three children, John, Jr., 19, a student at Notre Dame, Janna, 16, and Ed, age 10. 
LOUIS NAVIN, who Incidentally was not at Commencement, is an attorney in Mitchell, S. D., and has four children. Lynn, 12,Bnan, 8, John, 3, and Christopher age, 1. 
FRANK WALLACE still has Bellaire, O., as his residence address and has one boy, John, 15 years old, who Is a junior at LInsey Military Institute. 
DAN CULHANE Is national representative of the Bo^-s Club of America, lives in Washington, D. C , and has a girl 9. and boy 5. 
FRANK DORIOT attended the reunion and was very much in evidence at all gatherings showing the pictures of that nice daughter of his, now about two ^-ears old. As previously reported, Frank is in Huntington, W. Va., In the distributing business. 
I see TOM LEE quite often, his lovely wife, Marie, went through a ver>- serious operation a short while back and am glad to report that she came out of It fine. 
1924 
James F. Hayes, 4 Lyons Place Larchmont, N. Y. 

JIM BURNS Is teaching and coaching at Msgr. Coyle High School in Taunton, Alass. 
DON SULLU'AN, Indianapolis, president of the 

N. D. club there, has been named to head a five-man committee from the bituminous coal industry to develop and administer a voluntary plan for allo­cation of steel within the industry. He was also named as a member of the Department of Com­merce's National Industry Advisory Committee com­posed of representatives of the industry from all parts of the country. Don is assistant to the president of the Ayrshire Collerics Corp. 
1925 
John P. Hurley, The Toledo Parlor Furniture Co., Toledo, O. 

From JOHN HURLEY: Believe it or not, boj-s—In 21 months we'll have been graduated 25 years. . . . Pick up your '25 Dome and give It a once-over—I just finished doing it! Say a prayer for those fellows, out of a class of 360, who have gone on ahead of us—^DUKE CLAN­CY, BOB FLYNN, RABEY FUNK, MAX HAUSER, GEORGE KING, OCK LAVERY, AL XL\THEY, BILL NEVILLE, MAURICE SMITH, DR. JOHN WEIBEL, DR. FABIAN BURKE, JIM DIVER. DR. WILBUR EATON, VINCE HARRINGTON, NOBLE KIZER, WILLARD JONES and DOC CONNELL. (If I missed anybody, I'm sorry. Please tell me about it.) 
Our class %%'as alwa>-s the biggest and best, whether it ^vas football (those famous Four Horsemen and Seven Mules, in case the youngsters who came after the depression years don't remember). Or debating— shades of RAY CUNNINGHAM, JOE HOGAN and JOHN DROEGE. Or orators like HARRY Mc-GUIRE. 
And up to that time, who ever got out a Dome like JACK SCALLAN's? And there was the Notre Dame Daily—a thing they don't have today, not to say anything about The Juggler (jokebook to you youngsters) and the Santa Maria (even our Council 1477 had a quarterly magazine). The ALUMNUS started In our time (JIM ARMSTRONG is a '25er, you know, and the best alumni secretary in the nation)! And The Catalyzer for the chemists was the only magazine of Its kind In collegiate circles. 
Remember McGLTIKE and BUTCH HAECKER with "one Issue of Pam*? " Even BISHOP 0*HARA got his start in our day with his "Religious Bulle­tin." It was the only independent publication on the campus and It had no advertisers. To quote the '25 Dome, "its harp has but two strings, its score has but two notes, its song has but two words—• vice and virtue." 
^Von't it be fun to throw our chests out amongst ourselves—because tlie other classes won't believe us anyhow! 
Let's make plans now! 

This ii nows—there is going to be a change—the University can't handle the large Commencement classes and the tremendous turn-«.ut fci the reunions at the same time. So another time umst be chosen between graduation and the opening of school. 
It will probably have to be the weekend after graduation, or as some fellows think, the weekend of Labor Day. The latter date seems good because there is alwa>-s "the free day'* of Labor Day, with Its long weekend for fellows from a great distance. You can arrange \-acations at this time better than June—the faculty will be coming back, fresh from a rest and the possibility of seminars for business and professional men Is a possibility worth con­sidering. Golf tournaments and a preview of the new football teams would be another incenti\-e. 
Let's hear from you and I mean you^ each and every one of you. 
Your secretary hasn't received a letter from a soul since he got out of the Red Cross in 1945, but I've seen PAUL DOOLEY, BOB PIERCE, RAY CUNNINGHAM, BEN KESTING, DON AHLLER, JIM ARMSTRONG and RAY TILLMAN. AU are well and all except Jim are in the Toledo area. 
Since the Army game is no more, I miss seeing JOHN BARTLEY, BILL BELL and BUGS WAL­THER. Bugs has a hot orchestra In the "Big Town" and Bartley Is in the bond business. Bill Bell was a widower, but Is married again. 
I hear that WALTER HAECKER is in Jaclson­T,-ille, Fla., with Goodrich. FRANTC ROWLAND, formerly of Alcmphls, just got a big jump in insur­ance and lives in Detroit now. CHARLIE MOUGH has a Che\Tolet agency in Sandusky, O. He was touring the west with his family this summer when I called him. 
HERMAN CENTLIVRE of Fort Wayne aad I were pnu:ticallr the only '25eis at last Jane's re­union, except South Benders like BILL CERNEY and GEORGE KOCH. George, by the war, has given some fine radio talks aloi^ Catholic Actioa lines. He is a teacher in Riley High Sdwol in Soath Bend and very active in the K. of G. He is mm of the principal figures in the South Bend K. of 
C. weekly radio program which has attracted na­tional attention. One of Bill's daughters was married not lot^; ^o. 
Herm looks great and is doii^ a fine job id Fort Wayne in advertising for a brewery, and in raisti^ some outstanding Catholic youi^ters in that Indiana town. 
Let's hear from the rest of you "boys" and teU me what you think of the new alumni weekend for June, 1950, both as to arrangements and the time. We '25ers were always changing things so we mi^ t as well keep it up—a quarter of a century later! 
Here's a \-ote for a Labor Day weekend frcnn your secretary. Speaking of votes, let's elect a new secre­tary, too! I've been in longer than the Democrats. 
P.S. Forgot to mention that we '25ers gave the first Irish terrier to the "Fightin' Irish," a gift to ROCKNE from that most active clid> on the campus—^you guessed it—the Toledo Quh. Remem­ber we won the cup even if we had to steal it from HARRY McGUIRE's room to display it at onr Easter dance. McGuire thought CUN'NINGHAM and HAECKER, native Toledoans and editors on the Daily, had stacked the votes—^you know they wouldn't do anything like that. 
If I missed anything that we '25eis started, like Hello Week, and decorating during Homecoming (which we did), drop me a line. 
P.S. If you want more evidence of the advancing years, just witness the number of our classmates who had sons starting at Notre Dame this year. In this classification are: CHARLES CASE, Wheaton, IB.; FRANK CELEBREZZE, Cleveland; CHARLIE de la VERGNE, New Orleans; AL FELLNER, Belle­viUe, lU.; BOB GORDON, Fort Wayne. Ind.; JOHN KILEY, Kokomo, Ind.; ELMER LAYDEN, Glencoe, HI.; TOM LOFTUS, Brooklyn, N. Y.; JOHN MORAN, Dem-er, and the late BILL NEV­ILLE, Buffalo, N. Y. There may be others. 
These are of course in addition to the '25 men who had sons entering Notre Dame in earlier years, like BEN KESTING, JIM ARMSTRONG, GIL COTY, JOE HARMON and DAN CONNELL. 
TOM BARRY has a print shop where he Is put­ting out a weekly paper in Paso Robles, Calif. RAY SHERIFF is acting dean for the School of Commerce at Loyola University in Chic^o. 
1926 
Victor F. Lenuner, Box 661, Ironwood, Mich. 

DAN O'NEILL and DOC GELSON and his wife were among those in Pittsburgh on Oct. 2. That was the day of the Ktt-N. D. game, you'll recall. Doe said that PAUL HARRINGTON and AL VEU A should be added to the list of '26eis who were at his party on June 13, the 22nd anniversary of oar graduation. 
A sizable group of '26 people had sons enterii^ Notre Dame as freshmen this fall. In this dassificatioa are; CLEM CROWE, Buffalo, N. Y.; OREAL De-GRAFF, South Bend; JOHN ENDUES, Oak Pirk, lU.; NORB ENGELS, South Bend; BOB GRAHAM, York, Pa.; ART HALEY, South Bend, (Art's sec­ond 'son at Notre Dame); FRANK KLEIN. St. Louis; FRANK LEARY, Alia:, Tex.; BILL MER­CIL, Crookston, Minn.; HAROLD SHERIDAN, Pittsburgh, Pa., and JIM WHELAN, Ridgewood, 
N. J. -» -~. 
1927 
Joseph M. Boland, Radio Station WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 

From JOE BOLAND: 
Random jottings .. . at best . . . are about all possible from Ye Sec at this time .. . do I hear "Any time?" from the gallery? 
With a noble asnst from BILL DOOLEY—who also win fin 'the latter part of this column-with news frtNn his office—we can teU you it's LOU CONROY receiving congratulations on his elevatioa 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
STBIKE IT RICH WITH LEMMER 
From VIC LEMMER: In this age of "give-awa>-'* programs, I presume it will be nccessarj- to give some­thing au-ay in order to hear from memberr of the Class of 1926. Therefore I am going to conduct a cronlest of my own. I am going to place in a hat all the names of the mem­bers of the Class of 1926 who \%-ill write to me from now until Jan. 31, 1949. Then on Feb. 7, 1949, Fred Michetti, assistant cashier at the National Metals Bank in Ironwood, and EUGENE ZINN, attorney, and Noire Dame graduate, will draw one name from the hat. I intend to make the 1949 Notre Dame Alumni Fund contribution for the 1926 classmate whose name is drawn from the hat. The decision of the judges is Bnal, and I do not want any arguments! 

to the job of general commercial staff assistant for tlie Michigan Bell Telephone Co. at Detroit. You can reach Lou at 7800 E. Ferr>' St., Detroit 13, 
GENE EDWARDS is happily—and busily—selling steel in Pittsburgh; met him, and one of his sons, at the Friday practice of the Irish before the Pitt game. Gene looks and feels grand—exactly as he did \vuy back when! BILL McCULLOUGH, of Cleveland, with Chrj'slcr Motore, was in attendance at that game—and dropped by our broadcast booth after it u-ith his daughter, Mar>% And PINKY MARTIN is now with the NCWC armed-services welfare di\^ion . . . stationed at Biloxi, Aliss. Pink>- was on \-acation at Pittsburgh—naturally! Sa>-s he*s feeling better than ever . . . and, looks it! His hospitalitv u'as grand to us on that visit. 
Radio got your sec. back to Philadelphia for a reunion with VINCE McNALLY, now eastern rep­resentative for the Los Angeles Dons, and JOE MAXWELL, personnel director for Philco Refriger­ation Division" there. A family reunion was nice to take, also, for me. 
And—at Milwaukee on another ether-assignment— saw JACK LAVELLE . . . who should be one of us, even though he delayed a year getting out! He's scouting for the New York Giants . . . and Yale; recognized as best in the east at the job! Saj^ RICHARD "RED" SMITH is still doing his usual fine job with the Giants line. 
STEVE RONAY, as secretar>-treasurcr of the National Monogram Club, has his hands full these days with his faculty work at Notre Dame; helping on the prc-gamc luncheon meetings of the Mono­gram Club that are now featuring all home game dates at Notre Dame; and keeping up with volu­minous correspondence. 
Many a *27 man had a son entering Notre Dame this fall. In the classification are VINCE B.\LL, Plymouth, Ind.; JOHN BRENNAN, Ro\al Oak, Mich.; BILL CORBETT, Glencoe. 111.; JOE MUR­PHY, LaCrosse, Wis.; PROF. BILL ROEMER, South Bend (who received his Ph.D. with our class); ED RYAN, Chicago; ANDY SLEIGH, Weston, W. Va., and AL SMITH LaPorte, Ind. 
And HERB JONES sa>^—"dun't esk!"—He's got NONE—except for Washington, maybe. All else is sold out—tribute to FR.ANK LEAHY's coaching, and another great Notre Dame team it's a pleasure to watch and report in action for me! 
JOE BOLAND himself, as he modestly didn't say. is one of the country's busiest and most acclaimed football announcers this fall. He handles Notre Dame games for WSBT, South Bend, and some other sta­tions; and he also covers the Chicago Cardinal games for a group of stations. 
PAT HENEY is an atttorney at 1411 4th Avenue Bldg., Seattle, Wash., and resides at 1618 E. Aloha, Seattle 2. 
that is] IS a featured sports imter with the New 
York Herald-Tribune, 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley, 4700 W. Adams St., Chicago 44, III. 
From LOUIE BUCKLEY: 

Your class secretary* was transferred Sept. 1 to the Chicago Regional Office of the Federal Security Agency, 188 W. Randolph St., Chicago 1, as Associ­ate Regional Representative. Since this region in­cludes Illinois, Wisconsin, Indiana and Minnesota, I hope to see '28 men occasionally on trips to St. Paul and Indianapolis. I trust the '28 men in the Chicago area, as well as those of you who visit Chicago, will keep me currently adrised of news for this column. 
The "Garber Poll' article in the September-Octo­ber 1948 ALUMNUS was very* well done. We appre­ciate the fine work you did on this project, Bernie, and assume you will make another poll, and receive an even greater response, from the '28 men in 1953 for our 25-year reunion. 
The '28 man at the reunion who prepared the notice proposing tliat the class of '28 sponsor the idea of a Gaudete Afedal would like to have the reaction of additional classmates to the plan. Since he prefers to remain anon>Tnous, I will be pleased to fon\'ard your comments to him on this proposal. The suggestion, in brief, is that the University award to one alumnus each year a Gaudete Medal in recognition of his courage in meeting evcry-day personal problems. 
BILL KEARNEY, chairman of the '28 Golf Tour­nament, called my attention to some additional un­finished business from our reunion weekend. Bill writes as foUou-s: "On Sunday, in the rain, I went over to the golf shanty to see who' was the fiham­pion golfer in our class, but either a tournament sheet from our class had not been posted as directed or it had been taken down by someone. As a result, I have an engraved silver plate to be presented to the champion of our class, but do not know who it is. If you have any idea' who might be entitled to it, if you will drop me a card, I will immediately send this trophy." Since I am unable to give BiU an answer on this one, how about hearing from the '28 golfers as to what should be done with the trophy? 
JOHN WINBERRY of Rutherford, N. J., is prac­ticing law in Neu-ark, N. J., with his brother. John is also special deputy attorney General in New Jer­scv. He was a captain in the U. S. Marine Corps, and served with JACK CHEVIGNY at the same post for a two-month period. John met another Marine from the '28 class, TOM NOON, who is a It. colonel. Speaking of Afarincs reminds me that our otiier Marine classmate, GEORGE LEPPIG, wrote to me just before the reunion saying that he hoped to fly to Notre Dame for the affair. What happened, George? We missed you? JOHN WIN­BERRY, who I understand is still single, sends the following report on the New Jersey men: 
"TONY CERES—teaching histor>-, Perth Amboy High School, also practicing law in Perth Amboy, 
N. J. 
"DOC BRESLIN Is practicing law with his broth­er in Hackensack, N. J., and still pla>*s a good game of golf. 
"EDWARD J. DUFFY lives in Essex Falls, N. J., one of the elegant residential communities in New Jersey. Ed has done exceptionally well in the stock brokerage business. Two of his sons are attending Canterbury School in Connecticut and may soon attend Notre Dame. 
"ADRIAN LOPEZ brushed aside his engineering experience and went into the publishing business. He has gotten himself into the high income tax bracket, and we may soon look for^v-ard to the Lopez School of Journalism at N. D. 
"RUSSEL RILEY police commissioner 

Four generations visit Notre Dame campus!  From left to right, rear: Hon. William P. 
O'Neill, '06, lormer Lieutenont-GoTemor of Indiana, witli his son, Ronald S. O'NeilL '14; to aid alcoholics in Milwaukee county is CHARLIE his (middle row) grandsons John P. O'NeilL '48, and V^lliam R. O'Neill, '41; and (front O'NEILL, executive secreun* of the St. Vincent 
Chairman of the advisory- committee appointed 

row) his great-grandsons 'William P. O'NeilL O, and Dennis BCchaeL candidates for the 
dc Paul Society in the Milwaukee archdiocese. 
Notre Dame classes of '66 and '68, respectiTely. All except Dennis ^chae l attended the 
RED SMITH' S report of a Yale-Harvard football 

Notre Dame-Michigan State game recently. In addition. Governor O'Neill has another 
game is one of the features contained in the "Best 
son, Dennis J., '26, and two other grandsons, Dennis J., Jr^ of the class of '51, and 
Sport Stories of 1948" a volume edited by Ir\ing T. Marsh and Edward Ehre. Red (\Vallcr WcUesly, MichaeL who should appear on tiie campus around 1955. 
Volume 26, No. 6, Nov.-Dec, 1948 
Orange, N. J., and is practicing law in Nc\rark, 
N. J. 
"WEE BROWN is in the plumbing supply business in Orange, N. J., and is one of the leading business men of that town. 
"CHARLES C. "CLATE" RUFFER of Ruther­ford, another engineer, is probably tied with the class record, having seven children. 
"JACK WINGERTER is llWng in Spring Lake, 

N. J., and is one of those top ranking executives with a New York publishing house." 
JIM CANIZARO sent along the following notes, based on his reunion contacts, from Jackson, Miss., where he is an architect :"My trip to Notre Dame was very eventful in that I hadn't been back for a reunion for nearly 18 years. I met a lot of faces that I didn't recognize at first, but after introducing mj-self I found that these bo\-s were very close friends of mine at Notre Dame. Some had changed and others had not. 
"I was very happy to see CHET RICE from Cleveland, who was civil engineer-bred but is now selling building materials and is still as big a shot as ever. 
"BOB KIRBY looked as if he was ready to take the field and lead the bo^•s in a cheer; except for a few gray hairs he u-as the same as I remember him back in 1928. 
"Since BOB KNOX was a good friend of my wife before we were married we exchanged news which interested both of us. DAVID SMITK, an architect in Chicago, is rising high in his profession. 
"I had a chance to have a nice long talk with PAUL BRUST, PAT VARRAVETO and JACK CAVANAUGH who is now a well established attor­ney in Chicago and looked the same and is still a great guy. 
"JOE KINNEARY, yet unmarried, still seemed to be the well-dressed man of the campus and has not lost any of his 1928 humor. 
"The old Sorin Subway gang, namely TOM HART, 

TOM WALSH, CHRISTIE FLAN.AGAN, BOB 
KIRBY were in laughter reminiscent of the day 
they tised to have chewing tobacco spitting contests. 
"I wonder what happened to JOE BENDA, 

JEROME BIGGE, JACK MULLEN, JOE TIM­
LIN, ART DEXCHFIELD, SILVIN D. DUBA, 
VINCE DUCE, JOHN SONNHALTER, MARION 
HEFFERNAN, BILL HURLEY, BILL 0'HAR.-\, 
and ED TULLY. I didn't see them on the campus 
during the reunion. I thought perhaps you might 
know if any of these boys appeared. 
**I want to thank you and ever>body concerned with the Class of '28 20-year reunion. I liked the idea of wearing the little green caps. I hope this will be just the beginning of each class wearing some different type apparel." 
In reply to Jim's inquir>', I can report that I heard from ART DEXCHFIELD from Brazil prior to the reunion expressing regrets that he could not attend. Art was in the U. S. A. and Scandanavia last summer, so was unable to make the trip for the reunion. 
FRANK CONNORS reported from Arcade, N. Y., where he is city clerk-treasurer. I understand he was recently elected president of the Municipal Electric Utilities /Vssociation of New York State. Frank writes as follo\vs: 
"There is little that I can add to what has al­ready been said about the best reunion e\-er except to add just another pat on the back to each and cver>' committee member and especially WILLARD WAGNER for a very fine job. 
"It was swell to see so many again and I shall look forward to the 2oth hoping to sec many more that were unable to make the 20th. 
"I was particularly fortunate in being able to drive from BufTalo with GUS JENKINS, BERNIE BIRD and MARTY RYAN, thereby making a full week of the reunion. 
"Unfortunately I haven't seen nor heard from any of the felIo\%-s since the reunion except for one pleasant surprise. The Municipal Electric Utilities Association of New York State held their annual convention at Alexandria Bay, N. Y., during the early part of September. One of the principal speak­ers turned out to be FRANCIS L. DUQUETTE who is district meter specialist for the General Electric Company. This was the first time that I have seen Frank since 1928 and so we had a lot to talk about in a rather limited time." 
Thanks to JOHN WINBERRY, JIM CANIZ/\RO and FRANKi CONNORS for your line response to my request for news. 
JOHN McSORLEY. JR., is in the real estate 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
PATRICK J. FISHEa '33 
PATRICK J. FISHER, '36, past president 

and present executive secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis, is also grand knight of Indianapolis Council, No. 437, Knights of Columbus. 
And just to be sure that he is busy he is also a member of the Catholic Activities Committee, Te Deum International, and the Catholic Evidence Guild. 
A Knight of Columbus for 14 years, Pat ser\'cd as advocate, chancellor, and deputy grand knight of Indianapolis Council before he was chosen last June for the top post in the organization. During World War II he was in the Army, entering as a private and coming out as a captain. 
Pat is a practicing attorney, with oflSces in the Indiana Trust BIdg., Indianapolis. He and his wife are the parents of three chil­dren. 
business in Pittsburgh, Pa., married, and has four children. 
BILL JONES called me following the N. D.­Purdue game on his way through Chicago from Notre Dame to Dennison, la. Bill and his wife and daughter visited us a few months ago in Cleveland. Bill's visit provided an occasion for getting together uith TOM BYRNE, ART GLEASON, PAT CAN­NY and JOHN IGO. As you know. Bill is a mem­
* bcr of the law firm of Hamilton and Hamilton in Washington, D. C. 
JOE BREIG of Cleveland's Catholic Universe Bul­letin was chosen to write a weekly column, *'The Word" in America, succeeding Father Pierre Charles, 
S.J. Joe writes the article in the person of a father explaining the Sunday Gospel to his little son. It's a notable assignment and Joe is succeeding admir* ably at it. 
RON RICH, head of the department of Chemi­cal Engineering at the University, represented the University in a conference at the General Electric company laboratories in Schenectady, N. Y., in August. He also attended a special course at the University of Wisconsin for teachers of chemical en­gineering. It was sponsored early in September by the American Society for Engineering Education. 
29 
1929 
James R. Nowcry, P.O. Box 1545, Shreveport, La. 

JOHN HINKEL, public infonnation tfirector of the Univenity, was appointed chairman of the na­tional security and enlisted reserve committee c^ the Reserve OflGcezs* Association, department of In­diana. 
DAVE SAXON has joined Early Maxwdl associ­ates, promotion-publicity-public rdations firm. He will dhrect publicity with headquarters in Afemphis, Tenn. 
FRANK BELTING, St. Paul, Minn.; CHARLIE DeGROOTE, RoUing Prairie, Ind.; BILL DONE­LAN, Colorado Springs, Colo.;.TOM JONES, Boise, Idaho, and EARL L^LEY , Cleveland, are among the '29ers who have freshman sons at Notre Dame this year. 
From DICK NOWERY: 
The questionnaires are coming in just too slow. I have received only 125 from GOO letters sent oat. There is no reason ffir you men not sending these questionnaires to me. The form is simple,' the en­%-eIope is adflressed and stamped. Please aid me by sending these questionnaires in today. 
It may bs interesting to know what old chums are doing, about their fanules, etc For imtance BILLY LAUGHLIN is in Baltimore, has one dai^fatar and two boys and is teaching. CHESTER E. SMITH lives at N. Muskegon, Mich., has two daughters and one son and is in the financing business. 
JOSEPH G. SKHETANKA Mva in Chicago* has two very pretty daughters and is an attorney. HU­BERT A. SCHIMBERG li\-es in Cedar Rainds. la., has three daughters and one son, and is in tlie dry cleaning business. TOM J. QUIGLEY lives in Shenandoah. Pa., has one son and is an atbktic director and coach. JOHN RICHARD NASH lives in Skokie, HI., has one daughter and is in the con­struction business—and so it goes. 
The information I ha\*e received makes very inter­esting reading. HELP OUT—AND ENJOY YOUR­SELF LATER! 
1930 
Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

HARRY SYLVESTER'S latest book, recently pub­lished by' Henry Holt & Co., is a collection of short stories called "AU Your Idols." In the vc^nme Harry has brought together 14 adventure stories, some of them concerned with physical coura^ bat more with the courage of the spirit. 
In re\iewing the book for the New York Times, Allan Sc^er says: **. . . there are fourteen stories in this book, and only a fire-bell or a scream in the next room would make you stop reading at least ten of them. After tlus it is a pleasure to say that "All Your Idols" is also an honest and serioos book." 
BUD GEBERT, Wichita, Kans.; TOM HARVEY. Dunkirk, N. Y., and JOE FAHY, Washington, 
D. C , all have sons who are Notre Dame students this year. 
1931 
Walter F. Philipp, 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Square, Pa. 

RAY CONNORS is with the Public Relations Dept. of Nash Motors in San Francisco and resides at 226 Alpine, Sun VaUey, San Rafael, Calif. 
HARRY KENNEDY is a foreign representative oT the Coca Cola Co. His mailing address is 1326 Al­legheny St., Jersey Shore, Pa. 
JACK SAUNDERS recently acqmred ownership of one of Boston's most prominent meat pa^-king firms, Handschumacher, and is now president, treas­urer and a director of the firm. He is also owner of the Saunders Importing Co., IBoston, wfaidi spe­ctali2es in importing saus^e casii^. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1932 
James K. Collins, 17 Triangle Ave., Dayton 9, O. 

TOM McKEVrrr, an attorney with the Depan­mcnt of Ju!>tice in Washington. D. C , resides at 10,108 Big Rock Rd., Silver Spring, Md. Tom is president of the Xotre Dame Club of Washington. 
FRANK O'CONNOR, 136 Dariing Ave., Bloom­field, N. J., has been appointed section engineer of the customer section, field engineering divbion, at the General Electric plant in Bloomfield. Frank joined the company in 1937 and has had 'various responsible assignments since then. 
The Warren Petroleum Corp. has named JIM REIDY sales manager and transferred him to its Tulsa headquarters. He serxed as manager of the Warren district sales office in Houston. Texas, the past four ^-ears. 
FATHER JOE McGRATH. C.S.C., has reUn­quished his post as head of the Department of Chemistry at the University of Portland to become dean of the School of Science and director of grad­uate studies. Father McGrath had held his chemistry post since 1939. 
From JIM COLLINS: 

BOB LEE had decided to make a career of the Navy and has accepted a commission as Lieut, in the regular Na\->-. He is a legal officer and is attached to Naval Air Transport. He vvas reporting to Pensa­cola at the last writing. 
On a recent trip to Montana, I heard that SHEP CHEVALLIER is operating a large sheep ranch. He is married and has four sons. JOE MORO^CICK is an official with a wholesale groccr>- company in Great Falls. Among others I saw there were LEN REGAN, CLARENCE and LEO BEAULAURIER AL McINTOSH and BUD GIES. 
OLLIE POWERS is sales manager for a novelty company in Chicago, and has three fine children. 
A rare treat was in store for me recentlv when I received a letter from AL CULVER telling of a visit to the campus during which nostalgic memories were revived. Pan of his letter follows: 
"This outburst comes as a result of a recent visit to the campus in which Rip Van Winkle CULVER had quite a time tramping about for three hours without seeing a soul of yesteryear. Pleasant mcmo­""?, j?^^'' *= f=»"«n arches as he passed from one building to another wondering how many cuts he had left in the x'arious classes. Entering the campus by bus instead of the Toonen.ille trolley, we find the old post office moved behind the Law Building, on an angle to the East. Science Hall has been shaved down, but PROF. HINES (Goof to his stu­dents who meant no harm to a long-departed history authority) hasn't seen fit to call the roll vet On the second floor JOSE CORO.N'A, the min with the kindest smile and culture of a real South .•Ameri­can gentleman, has just given out the final Spanish marks. PROF. TU.NNEY is squinting through his glasses and remarks that we should not copy our themes from his favorite periodicals or it will bring f ,,:^"'"' 8°°=* 'SS- The old gym still stands, but 1 AT CANNY no longer gives with the football equipment of ancient vintage to the awe-struck Ireshman who feels the nails coming through the inner_ soles of 'George Gipp's practice shoes' but doesn t dare protest to the bellowing bull behind the counter. 
"The old handball courts still stand without paint wT„5f ' ^ S°°'' leaning out along the lines of ilARCHY SCHWARTZ' handiwork in taking ca« 
dowly that the impatient players would take his broom and finuh the job for him. There the Gnat KULK. used to play squash with TO.MMY MILLS 
to'^ei'T'";!^"'' "',"'"'' f?""'^ ^•"' ''"""Sh points 
to get a good workout himselL We often missed 
jupper to listen to the fast wit of these two^l^ ­
uu^^,t^"^^,,T" ' T ' '•" *"= S>-m and looks 
M. li r "'- i^"'">' "•"="= TIM GALVIN and 
^^ J h ^ "^' Sl°"Sht him a pitcher of water so he can go on. Time advances and we're ^^L!!i^u •° ''^" 'h' R-m as the AP L IJTt contused the passing of "Bearskin" and in hU me^! ory the building is being locked up for the day! 
Rip leaves through a hole in the east wall and takes a look at the Stadium and the rusty lock on the Carrier gate where we forged through, to be used as cannon fodder for the x-arsity. Freshman and Sophomore halls, cardboard heaven for the under­classmen, have folded up and new builflings ha\'e taken their place extending to tka Powerhouse. Thinking of POP FARLEY, GENE MAHONEY, NORM HUWrrZ, HOWIE SMITH, 'SIX STEAK' SAVOLDI, we repair to the dining halls for a quick snack and find that service is at regular horns and content ourselves with a limeade and notice that the cafeteria line has been turned around and murals arc on the walls. 
"Rip visits Badin and finds his old suite has an electric coffee pot sitting on the window sill and small stores are underneath. TOMMY OWEN, the majordomo of 15,000 meab daily, would snort if he saw free ccffec being made without rolling out of bed. 
".And so it goes. The Rockne Field House with its spotless handball courts and swimming pool, with a full set of rules on the walls to preserve the building for the longest possible time with the least amount of repairs. Howard Hall no longer has JOHN WHITMAN as prefect on the first floor to pre\*ent LARRY 'MOON' MULLINS from selling ancient editions of the Scholatsie to the newly arrived Irtish. The dome is being repaired but still stands out as the beacon light for Catholic education. Sorin Hall doesn't have a light in FATHER O'HAR-Vs work­shop, where the 24-hour a day man of God nev^r ceased working. 
"So after a rest on a bench in front of Walsh Hall, where the summer school clergy were chanting their prayers, we come to life again, carry a nun's books from the Library when she mistakes us for a portly padre in golf set-up, have a coke frtim the ^lain Building automatic vendor, say goodb)'c to BROTHER CYPRIAN, who doesn't have his ac­counting room any more and has given up his ke>-s to Washington Hall in return for a passkey to the Golden Gate. 
"So saj-ing we fill in our football ticket applica­tions and hope to have the pleasure of seeing you and some others of the old guard at this fall's games." 
1933 

Joseph A. McCabe, Advertising, Eastman Kodak Co., 343 State St., Rochester, N. Y. 
ART BECVAR has been appointed director of the General Electric Company's appearance design divi­sion in Bridgeport. His business address is 1285 Bos­ton A\-e. 
CHARLIE FARRIS is with the National Security Resources Board in Washington, D. C. He lives at Apt. B-l, 201 Belleview Dr., Alexandria, Va. 
Representing the Notre Dame Sociology Depart­ment at the annual Prison Congress in Boston, Aug. 30 to Sept. 4, was HUGH O'BRIEN, M.A., '33. 
DR. JOHN PICK of Marquette University has been named editor-in-chief of the new literary quar­terly to be published by the Catholic Renaissance. 
JACK SHEEHAN, head of the Department of Economics at Notre Dame, recently addressed the South Bend Round Table. WALTER CLEMENTS, '14, was chairman of the meeting. Jack spoke on "Today's Challenging Frontier, Human Relations in Industry." 
1934 

Joseph R. Glennon, Jr., Commercial Solv­ents Corp., 17 E. 42nd St., New York City 
HENRY 0'HAR.A is an attorney in Sandusky. O. He lives at 417 Columbus Ave., Sandusky. 
AL PHANEUF has moved from San Antonio, Texas, back to St. LouiSj Mo., where he has joined the staff of the Social Planning Council of St. Louis and St. Louis County as special assignment secretar>'. 
Emplo>-cd with the California Youth Authority is RALPH ROGERS, M.A., '34. His new address is 234 San Miguel Way. Sacramento. 
In 1&46. the year HUGH DeVORE left Notre Dame to coach football at St. Bonavcnture College in western New York, that Franciscan college had an enroUinent of less than 1.400. Today, close to 2,200 undergraduates alone have jammed the school until it is literally bursting at the scams. 
Hughie isnH responsible for all that increase of course, but the Devore following is huge and faith­ful. An idol of the Bonaventure students, Hugh was presented with a shiny new DeSoto by them in appreciation of his work last >'ear. Out of recogni­tion to him. a local benefactor has contributed a $100,000 stadium to the college. He has turned down repeated coaching ofTers from major collegiate and professional outfits. 
In Hugh's first >'ear at Bonaventure, the Bonnies won a bid to the Tobacco Bowl. losing a thriller to Muhlenberg, 26-25. Last year, the Indians won six and lost three fantastically close ones to bring Hugh's two-year record to a total of 12 victories against four losses in regular season play. This j-car, he scheduled the toughest slate in the school's histor>', Bonavcn-
The all-Notre Dame coachin? staff at SL Bonarsntor* College is composed, left to right of Ken StUley, '36, Hugh DoTore, '34. the head coach« and Johnnr Agnone, '47. See '34 news. 
Volume 26, No. 6, Nov.-Dec, 1948 
turc meeting such worthies as Boston College^ St. Louts University, University of Dayton, College of William and Kfary, Southern Conference champs, and JOE KUHARICH's '38, San Francisco. 
Working with Hugh at Bonaventurc are KEN STILLEY, '36, and JOHNNY AGNONE, '47,. Ken originally joined Devore when the latter took over the reins at N. D. in 1945. He bandies the line­men and does the scouting. Johnny Agnone signed as backBeld coach just before the 1947 spring prac­tice, having completed his studies at N. D. in Jan­uary of that year. 
1935 
Franklyn G. Hochreitcr, 1327 Pcntwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Md. 

Newly assigned department head of Organic Chcm­istr>* Development Processing in the new pilot plant of Lily's in Indianapolis is ART KRANZEN­FELDER. 
RAY CAKES' business address is 321 N. Easton Rd., Glenside, Pa. He resides at 640 Momxte Ave., Ardsley, Pa. 
JOHN ENGLISH has moved his family to Ta­coma. Wash., where he is with the J. D. Englbh Steel Co., a jobbing house for reinforcing steel pro­ducts. His home address there is 11809 Nyanza Rd. John's many friends will hear with sorrow that his wife died recently, the victim of a polio attack. Two children and John survive. 
1936 

ED McNALLY is vice president and treasurer of the McNally Pittsburg Manufacturers Corp. In Pitts­burg, Kans. Ed has been ser\-ing this year in Gov­ernor Carlson's steel adx-isory committee and was made a director of the Kansas Manufacturers Show, Inc. He is married and the father of two children. 
In addition to his duties as Portage totvnship assessor ED *BABE' VOORDE, South Bend, has been appointed an assistant freshman football coach at Notre Dame. Since the fall of 1942 Ed has been acting as a scout for the Notre Dame coaches. 
1937 
Frank J. Reilly, 1651 Metropolitan Ave., New York City 62, N. Y. 

BILL CONROY is with the Land Dept. of the Warren Oil Corp. in Houston, Texas. Hts home address is 4154 Villanov'a, Houston. 
AL SCHWARTZ is a buyer of sporting goods equipment for the Lee Hardware Co. in Salina, Kans. 
CHARLIE COY, his wife and three children are now living tn Albuquerque, N. Mex., where Charles is associated with the Federal Housing Administra­tion. His home address is 2924 Santa Cruz Dr. Charlie \%-as in the Seabees for three and a half years in World War II. 
FATHER JIM ANDERSON, C.S.C., has been appointed head of the Department of Chemistry succeeding FATHER JOE McGRATH, C.S.C., at the University of Portland. 
1938 
Harold A. Williams, 4323 Marble Hall Rd., Baltimore, Md. 

DAVE CONNOR has been transferred to Evans­vtlle, Ind., by the Acme Fast Freight, Inc., where he is to manage the new freight receiving station. Dave*s new home address is 2925 W. Virginia St., Evans\*iIIe. 
MEL DARK is a construction superintendent for the Portee-DeWitt Construction Co. in Poplar BIu^s, 
RANCH COONTRY NEEDS BOOKS 
Rev. Louis F. McKean, '39. postor of St. Pool's Chuich, V^nnemuceo. Nevada, needs good books lor his parish library. Will you send some? 
It's this way: Father McKeans'a parish is terriiically widespread. 
Outside oi the limits of M^nne­mucca. he sometimes gets to offer Mass and administer the sacramenta only once a month in o given ploce. 
"By leaving a Catholic book or two with a ranch family, to be re­turned in one month, we plont the seeds of the Faitli." Father McKean writes. "But. of course, we have to have books to start" 

From HAL WILLIAMS: Four classmates have reported since the last '38 notes were written. 
CHARLIE CALLAHAN writes from Notre Dame that all is quiet on that front. DON HICKEY writes from South Bend that all is quiet in town. REV. ANTHONY i L GOMEZ (St. John the Baptist Rec­tory, 344 Country St., New Bedford, Mass.) dropped a line to say that he will be in Baltimore for the Navy-Notre Dame game. RUSS HUNT, writing from Woonsocket, R. I., was the only one to pass along any news this month. And his letter, believe it or not, is in a back crevice of my desk—wedged and half-hidden behind the side of a drawer. I just can't get to it. 
m be trying to extract it in time for the next issue while I wait for news from you. 
I'm really disappointed in the lack of letters. What's the matter, fellows? Busy? Tired? Not in­terested? Lazy? [Don't take Serutan. Tell Williams —Ed.] 
Don't telegraph—write! 
31; 
1939 
Vincent-DcCourscy, 1917 Elizabeth, 
Kansas City 2, Kans.. 

From VINCE DE COURSEY: Just in case anyone had forgotten (althov^ Lonl knows they have had reason enough to do so), there is actually a dass secretary for the now baldii^, graying men of 1939. It has been k»ff enough since this colimin has actually been written that beginning it seems like a new job. But to 
The ordinaUon of FATHER FRANK CLONING­HAM, O.P., was accomplished about this time last year. He was to be assigned to socneplaoe in tlie world doing anythii^ the superiors could think up during May. Going through Chic^o this spring had the chance to talk to Frank and find him wdl, but got no idea as to where he was heading. Any­one knowii^ his whereabouts should report. To bring up what is probably ancient news in a letter early this year from the Good Father: "HEY-WdOD has some interesting job at the Univeisity of Ghic^o (where O'LAUGHUN is working for a degree, along with JOHN MEANEY and some other N.D.ers); McDONOUGH is in real estate, married a Rosary girl from the South Side, and Ii%-es there with their two children; ANDY WILSON is in Detroit with Jean and children; WALSH is accounting at Field's with a large famOy, no longer growing to my knowlet^." [Ed. note: see bdow] 
From BOB KIERNAN a notice of the birth of Teresa Ann in March. 
From VINCENT DeCOURSEY and with no small amount of pride and probably indiscreet firmer point­ing—the announcement of his fourth boy in July. 
Helen is bearing up pretty well, but I am exhausted —howe\-er 1949 is another year and we shall see. 
Bob, incidentally, is at 612 Marigold Ave., Corona Del Mar, Calif. 
Long letter from PAUL TULLY, who says: "Washii^on, D. C , .presently has the following '39ers: GEORGE HAITHCOCK, pubUc iclatiom director of the National Catholic Community Serv­ice; PHIL MALONEY, FENTON MEE, AUGUST FIPP, VAL DEALE secretary to the Secretary of the Navy, James Forrestal [you can see how loi^ 
Mo. His mailing address is Box 3, Oregon, Mo. 
When William T. Berthelet of liGIwoukee. ol th« right, was a student at Noira DOB^ IB 
BOB MULLEN is a research analj-st-civilian em-1880-85* Luigi Gregori was doing the pointwigs in the MOIB Buildiiig and in Sacred Heart pIo)-e of the Navy Department in Washington. He 
Church. Mr. Berthelet recalled this ^idiea he came bode to the campus oa Od. 22 witfi 
has charge of the "Africa desk" in iia\'al intelli­
gence. his wile* center, and daughter. Mrs. Calna Kbffmami. 
ago this was written]; PAT GORMAN, developing a large law practice in the center of Washington, 
D. C , in partnenhip with HARRY BOISVERT; MATT MERKLE, a major in the Air Force; JIM McNELIS, ED PALANK, \VALT SHORT, FATH­ER FRER DIGBY and HUGO WTNTERROWD." Paul's sentence M^asn't that long, but we trust that the manager of the Educators Association won*t Tuind our editing. Paul's address is 917 I5th St. N.W., Washington, D. C. I hope to see most of these bo>-s and a good many others at the get-together at the Na\'>' game. 
A long lost letter turned up tlie otiier day—from JOE HARRINGTON, c/o Panama ^Varehouses, Inc., Box 3232, Panama, R. P. Sa>-s Joe, speaking in Feb­ruary, "PAUL KELLEY was through here twice in the past few months. He is now on his \vny up through Central America. BUTCH K.\MM is jn San Jose, Costa Rica, with the Coca-Cola i>eoplc. JIM RAAF is in Lima. Peru, with the Grace em­pire. JOSEPH APODACA is now the U. S. com­mercial attache in the Embassy* in Buenos Aires." Joe enclosed a snapshot he took of a pair of honey­mooners back in 1940, and it seems to mc that I ought to go on a diet. 
A couple of da\*s after this is written DICK AN­TON and our wives have a several years delayed date in Chicago, ivhere Dtck is presently batting his head against the employee problems of Hotpoint, Inc. As a ^-early loser to Local 207, I.B. of T.C.W. and H. of A., he has my sj-mpathy. In May Dick had three children. He asked about the REARDONS and I am happy to report that brother TOM w-as all o.k. at the Notre Dame-Nebraska game (so-called) at Lincoln. 
A chiding letter from DON O'MELIA, who in law>-er-Iike fashion, takes us to task as a poor sec­retary, sa>-s in part: ". . . no fault of yours but rather of your former classmates in mailing you neu-5 of interest." Thanks, Don, but the fault is mostly mine—up to now. From this day forward 
•we turn a new leaf. 
Don sa>-s that he has four girls (sec above) and one boy. He was elected president of the Wisconsin District Attorney*s Association last January. Dick graduated from Marquette Law School in June. 
A few da>-s ago a letter from long time faithful correspondent DANIEL P. FALSIONI, attorney, of Lockport, N. Y. Dino was just elected grand knight of his council and of course has been kept busy by that one job. Keep up the good work and don't let the letters stop. 
Now the important news. Just in case youVe feel­ing the rax'ages of age, be reminded that it's only natural. You have of course foi^otten it, but ten >-ears ago next June you went forth into a world that probably couldn't have been worse, clutching that old sheepskin and looking for a job, even as most of us. Then the late unpleasantness with Adolph and the Little Men, and your ten years are up. All of which is to say that come June you are supposed to show your face at what will certainly be the granddaddy of all reunions. This will be a two-in-one affair, the argument over the water hav­ing forced a postponement of the five-year get-together. So make your plans now, let nothing deter you and we'll be seeing you. 
VINCE DE COURSEY, vice president of the Dc-Coursey creamery in Kansas City, Kans., was ap­pointed to the board of trustees of the Kansas Man­ufacturers ShoWj Inc. Vincc is also active in pro­gram work of the International Association of Ice Cream Klanufacturers and assisted in that group's annual show this fall in Atlantic City. 
WALT GEREND was transferred from the War Assets Administration in Detroit to tlie Wright Pat­terson Air Force Base in Dayton, O., as purchasing agent. Walt's big problem was to find a place for his wife and new daughter but luck was with him and they now reside at 26 E. Nottingham Rd., Da>ton. Also at Wright Field is JOHN SCHULZE 
•who is an engineer in the Propeller Lab 
LOU RADELET represented the South Bend-KGshawaka Round Table of the National Conference of Christians and Jews at a national staff convention at Carroll College in ^Vaukesha, Wis. Lou teaches at Notre Dame. 
Father Cunningham reports that JIM RAAF is in La Paz, Bolivia, with the Grace Lines. 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
WALTER H. lOHNSON. IB.. '39 

WALTER H . JOHNSON, JR., '39 formerly director of sales for American Airlines' east-em region, has assumed new duties as re­gional vice president. The region embraces Canada and ten East Coast states. 
Walt served with the airline industry's first cargo sales and traffic staff and helped pioneer American's cargo sales department. He established Amercican's first' cargo field ofiSce, in Chicago, was organizer of the air­line's cargo operations in Mexico, and par­ticipated in the planning of American's air­freight service. 
During the war, Walt served for two years in the Marine Corps, his final assignment having been in the Pacific on the staff of the Third Marine Air Wing commander. He joined American Airlines' sales department in New York City in 1940. His headquarters are in New York. 
1940 
Robert G. Sanford 4218 N. 17th St., Milwaukee, Wis. 

P.AT BRENNAN has been appointed an investi­gator in the St. Joseph County prosecutor's office. He and his family reside at 124 S. William St., South Bend. 
DR JOE FELDMEIER, M.S., *40, has joined the physics department at St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn. He had been at Rutgers University, New Jersey. FRED FLYKN, Ph.D., *42, is assistant pro­fessor of Philosophy at St. Thomas. Fred had been teaching at St. Ambrose College, Davenport, la. 
WAYNE FENCIL is a physician at the Moiuroe Clinic in Monroe, Wis. 
AUGUST FIPP is a spedal agent for the FBI with headquarters in Washington, D. C. His home address is 727 Division St., Defiance, O. 
Federal Telephone and Radio Corp., Clifton, N. J., added ED HART to its personnel as sales engi­neer. Ed had been associated with the Strombcrg Carlson Co, 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ED-MATTHEWS lives at 150 Brcckenridge Lane. I<ouis\ilIe, Ky. 
St. John's Prep in Brooklyn, N. Y., has added to its staff CHARLES PED.\GNO as an instructor in biology and mathematics. 
The South Bend Tribune says that "Baron, a Secing-E>-e dog, arrived in New York for a 'last fling* with his blind master, JUDGE MARIO PIER­ONI, Munde, Ind. Baron got all wrapped up in 'baby sitting* with the judge's infant son and would not let neighbors come near the child. AVhen the dog nipped a visitor the judge decided to go to New York to trade him for a dog less fond of children.** 
BEN SHERIDAN has been named head freshman football coach at the University. He resides at 1115 
N. Notre Dame Ave., with his wife and daughter. 
JOHN PINDAR of Maplewood, N. J., announces the opening of offices for the practice of law in association with Duggan, Shaw and Hughes. His business address is 24 Commerce St., Newark, N. J. 
CAPT. JOE WEIDNER has been added to the personnel at Notre Dame to command the enlarged group of Air ROTC. He serves as instructor and assistant executive officer. Joe spent a year at No­tre Dame before entering West Point in 1937. 
1941 
John W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 Darlington Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 

BOB BOYLE is with the Amerada Petroleum Corp. His business address is Kerr-McGee BIdg., Room 306, Oklahoma City, Okla. 
AL CRAW, M.S., *4I, has been appointed to the Department of Mathematics at the U. S. Na\-al Academy, Annapolis, Md. 
DICK FOG.\RTY is an insurance adjuster located at 421 Warren Bldg., Michigan City, Ind. Dick resides in nearby LaPorte. 
RAY SCHLESIER is a stress analyst with the Ranger Aircraft Engines, Farmingdale, New York. He resides at 150-02 83th Ave., Jamaica, New York. 
ED SULLIVAN is a chemical engineer with the Standard Oil Co. of Indiana, residing at 221 Hallcr Ave., East Alton, 111. 
A shrine of St. Francis of Assisi was dedicated on June 13 to the memory of those from St. Francis of Assisi parish, Harrisburg, Pa., who gave their Ii\*es in World War II. One of those so memoriali7cd is CHARLIE SCHLAYER, '41. 
1942 

William E. Scanlan, Pullman Trust & Saving Bank, 400 E. 111th St., Chicago 28, 111. 
LARRY KELLEY wrote from Houston, Texas, that he had just returned from a trip to South . America and in time to greet a baby girl. The 
proud parents report that all is well. 
PAUL NEVILLE, South Bend Tribune political writer, phoned in tlie results of a local lauyers* baseball game despite a cast on his left foot. He suffered a fractured bone in his ankle as he slid into first base in the first inning. 
BILL PADON has been recalled from temporary assignment at the corporation's district sales office at Houston, Texas, to assume more responsible duties in the Tulsa sales division of the Warren Petroleum Corp. 
TOM PO^VERS is a copy reader with the Chicago 
Tribune. His address is 6941 S. Green St., Chicago. FATHER JOE ROGUSZ, C.S.C., was appointed athleUc director of South Bend Catholic High School. 
On Oct. 15 FRED PAYNE received his LL.B. from the School of Law of Western Rescr\c Uni­versity in Cleveland. 
MAURICE KELLY of Buffalo, N. Y., recenUy accepted a position in the advertising and editing ciepartment of National Electric Products Corp., Chamber of Commerce Bldg., Pittsburgh 30, Pa. 
1943 
John L. Wiggins, 6733 Windward St., Cincinnati 27, O. 

From JACK WIGGINS.­With the football season here, the opportunities to meet classmates is greatly enhanced—and.we might 
Volume 26, No. 6, Nov.-Dec, 1948 
add, happily so for one entrusted to the job of re­porting dass activities. At the opener against Pur­due, several of the chssmstcs were on hand, and after the thriller gathered around Gate 14. 
JERRY GAINER was there with his fiancee, Betty Judae—this being the Saturday before their mar­riage. The ceremony toot place on Oct. 2 in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. Jerry is now connect­ed with Key City Motors in Kankakee, III. JOE GOECKEN took time off from his executive duties with Noll Bakeries in Alton, 111., to drive up to the game. Sitting near him in the stands were JAY GIBSON, JACK TALLETT, BOB VICARS, DICK CREEVY and HOWARD MARLOW. 
FRANK KAISER, buo}-ant as ever, remarked that he had come up "from corn country" to see the game; he said that he had seen RALPH VINCI­GUERRA. Heading for Gate 14 after the game was FATHER DICK O'BRIEN, up from Blooming­ton, HI., for his usual game per year. PETE MOR­rrZ was leading the conversation of a circle of '43 men gathered outside the Stadium. In it were LEE RAY.MOND, DAN STEWART, ED RONEY and GAIL FITCH. Roney staled that it was a pleasure to see someone else making frantic notes about the doings of classmates. Incidentally, another of that group, DANNY STEWART, claims his name was inadvertently omitted from the list of returnees for the five year reunion last June. We'll see if we can't persuade BILL DOOLEY to put your name in bold face upper case type, Dan! 
At the Monogram Club luncheon before the game I met Patty and JOHN McHALE. John sa>^ that he occasionally sees FRANK EBNER, ED HICK­EY and JIM BYRNE, all Detroiters. McHale cur­rently is connected with the Tiger farm system. 
The Monogram Club News published this so­cial note recently: "HERB MELTON, fencing, 
43, recently took a bride in the person of Miss Kay Carmody, secretary to Business Manager of Athletics HERBERT E. JONES. Mellon currenUy is serving as fencing coach at Notre Dame." Kay probably sees to it that Herb gives Herb top flight football seats. 
Another of the Class of '43 to get neivs space %Kis JACK GILLIGAN. The following appeared in the Cincinnali Enquirer on Sept. 30: "John J. Gilli­gan, instructor in English at Xai-ier University, has been named faculty adviser of the school's under­graduate literary quarterly, the Athenaeum, Dean taul L. O'Connor, S.J., announced yesterday. A graduate of Notre Dame University, Gilligan re­ceived the Master of Arts degree in June at the University of Cincinnati." 
BILL MIDDENDORF, who also saw the Purdue game, has just returned from Boston where he wit­nessed the wedding of FRANK STUART. While in Boston, Bill and Frank attended the wedding reception of Dom DiMaggio. En route. Bill phoned BARNEY TURNOCK, who works in the Cleveland district office of International Business Machines More information from Middcndorf sa>s that HAR­RY McKNIGHT works in Norfolk for Graybar Electric. 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation comes to our rescue with a letter from BILL TRACY. It carries the address 1706 Justice BIdg., Washington, 
D. C , and reads: 
"Just a short note to let you know that I have met many Notre Dame men in my travels with the FBI. I'm a special agent assigned to the Washington field division and there are four other ND men on my squad: PAUL E. MORRISON, '38: FRANK 
R. McGINTY, '41; ROBERT E. LENIHAN, '47 and BOB K. McQUEEN (ND Law School and a South Bend-ite;. 
"I met FATHER BERNARD E. RANSING, C.S.C, '31, at Holy Cross College on a routine interview and we had quite a chat. EARLL WIN­TERROWD, '39, is assigned to the Bureau here in Washington, D. C. JOHN ADAMS, '45, is selling Pontiac autos when he isn't playing football for the Redskins. I worked with GEORGE VLK, '31, and JACK DOERMER, '42, out in Kansas City, Mo. Mr. Vlk has since resigned from the Bureau. 
"I attended the Chicago Bears-Washington Red­skin game in Baltimore last Sunday and saw some 
N.D. men perform. GEORGE CONNOR looked great for the Bears. While in Baltimore I contacted JOHN LE BRAU, ex '47, former monogram base-baller and football player; John is now a happily married roan. 
"My brother, JOE, '43, just successfully com-


SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
LT. JOSEPH H. EWING. '32 

1ST LT. JO-SEPH H . EWING, '32, Wash­ington, D. C, son of Neal H. Ewing, '84, Roselle, N. J., is the author of "29, Let's Go," an illustrated history of the 29th In­fantry Division in which the former served in Europe in World War II. 
Grandnephew of General William Tecimi­seh Sherman, Lt. Ewing comes by his mili­tary interest naturally. He is following a military career with the historical division of the Department of the Army in Wash­ington. 
Lt. Ewing wrote the history while he was on active duty in the army, but it was pub­lished by a private publisher, the Infantry Journal. It is the heroic story of a combat group that took heavy losses without break­ing and contains more than 30 maps and 200 photographs. 
GABRESKI TOP ACE 
tt. Col. Francis S. Gabreski. '42. 
. top United States flying ace in World War n, was one of three flyers hon­ored on Sept. 25 at the first Air Force reunion in Madison Square Garden, New York City. The re­union was a highlight oi the con­vention of the Air Force JUsodation. Col. tiabresld, a member of the Eighth Air Force, was acclaimed for shooting down 28 planes. Major Robert S. lohnson and Col. Chorles 
H. MacOonald. who shot down 27 planes apiece, were also honored. All three men exceeded the record of Capt. Eddie Rickenbacker, lead­ing ace of World War I, who shot down 26 planes. 

pleted his law coone at Gofaimbia and is pieselly readyins himself for the forthcoming bar em. " . 
PETE HORITZ was a most gndons host vAea your reporter was en route to Cleveland on a hao' ness trip recentlr. Fete operates Hcntz Bnidieis, grocers, witb his brother. Pete and I luded &e shelves that evening for some 3£Ber Hs-life mad potato chips—something that wHl show when sBven­tory time roQs around. Moritz said that be had attended the - Fitt game the previous Satunfay. ­
JOHN CRI&IMINS was awarded a degree in the school of business at Marquette University last smn­mer, . 
RAY HOEY is attending the Univeisitr of South-em California Law School. Ray's home address is 149 Fort Hale Road, New Haven, Conn. 
DON KANE is a public accountant with the Ar­thur Andersen & Co., 120 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. 
At the last report, DR. JACK McSWEENEY WM in Cincinnati interning, according to one of lus friends. Any later report? 
PAUL O'CONNELL has ahnost comfdeted hii work at the University of Rochester for his FhJ>. He hopes to gc on with his training and has zvccnt­ly appUed for a post-doctorate fellowship at tht. University of Pittsburgh. 
CHARLIE QUINLAN is with the legal depart­ment of American Tel. & Tel. His mailii^ address is 1 W. 72nd St., New York City, N. Y. 
DR. DAN ROURKE is at Charles S. Wilson Memorial Hospital in Johnson City, N. Y., where he has accepted a residency in pathology. DR. DICK SULLIVAN is married and the father of three children—and is now serving his internship in the Navy Hospital at Newport, R. I. 
During recent convocation exercises at Western Reserve University, Qeveland, DICK TUPTA, re­ceived his M.A. degree. 
ED WATTERS has been named assistant professor in the Department of Mathematics at the Naval Academy in Amnapolis, Md. 
BOB WALSH is now head footbaU and ha^kfit^n coach at St. Benedict's College, Atchison, Kans. He was at Parks Air College, East St. Louis, HL , in a coaching capacity. 
1944 
John A. Lynch, Box 231, Palo Alto, Calif. 

From JOHN LYNCH: 
Denver's PHIL CLARKE, currently a Lt. (jg) with the Naval Reserve at San Diego, i>rote us lengthily and ivell on Sept. 27. This is Phil: 
"1 reentered the Navy in July, '47. Following mf internship in St. Louis, spent three months at the Naval Hospital here in San Diego, and then was transferred to the Amphibious Base, Coronado, where I'm presently stationed. 
"Doris and I, married nearly three years now, are enjoying this stmny clime, but well not locate here permanently. That place is still in^finite, though old home town Denver is an even-mone^ bet. We have a fine, husky IS-month-oId boy, Philip Brien. 
"\ J>epe to obtain further training in internal medicine foUomng my discharge matt July. In November we want to drive to San Francisco to see about resident possibilities there. Meanwhile, to all who may read this, a hearty invitation from the Clarkes if you are in the vicinity—2923 Cole Drive, San Diego 10. 
"News concerning our '44 rhssmatrs is meager. My wife and I were godparents for the BERNIE SCHOO's second child (and first boy) yesterday. Bernie is in my boat—he stationed at the Sonar School here. PAUL O'CONNELL, our Great Imi­tator, gets his PhJ>. in chemistry, from theUmv . of Rochester this fall, and PAUL MARIETTA it still with Ptiidential Life, worUtn; Tene Haute and surrounding parb. BUD KUHN is with Dow Chemical in Chicago. And I beUeve LEE ROOBAN is inactidng dentistry in Saratoga Springs. 
"Congratulations to EARL ENGLERT oa tke birth of that Imy. And a slap on the badi to ARTIE HOFFMAN for winnii^ that teiuis champioaAip. 
**Hope to run into some of the gang at the Southern Cal game in Los Angeles. *DUSTY* EV­ANS, of 217 Breen-Phillips and the Commerce School, has been FATHER GEORGE EVANS of St. Phtlomena's parish, Denver, the past year. He'll be out for the game. I know that Father 'Dust>'* remembers his raomie GEORGE HAMILTO.V, WALLY BARTON, *MOE' DEMOTTS, and our other departed classmates, frequently in his Masses." 
We ha\ie lifted one paragraph from PhiFs good letter which we would like to give you here, for it is worth considering separately: 
"One thing irks mc whenever I receive a commu­nique from Notre Dame. That is to sec mj-self listed as 'J. P. Cbrke, '45.* Maybe that is necessary for record purposes. But I want to attend my re­unions with the lads I lived with: those who entered 
N.D. in September, 1940. So let's keep our class together, r^ardlcss of ^vhether a man got his de­gree in *43 or *47, or not at all. Next year is OUR five->-ear reunion!" 
Thanks, Phil. Now comes the caU for volunteers. First of all, if you want that 44 tag on your Alumni Association record, let your secretary* know, or write directly to the .-Mumni Office at Xotre Dame. Things have been straighiening themselves out grad­ually, but we know that many of the class are still carried along on the rosters of '43 through '48. It has just been a matter of slotting you in the calen­dar >'ear that you graduated, regardless of when you started at Notre Dame. Indiridual contact is the only way the record can be corrected, and the 
•way things stand it has to be up to each man to notify the front office one way or another. If you want to be '44, and you aren't now, it's up to you. (AVc second the motion. TTie war years have inevitably made for confusion, but we are glad to put a man with the class of his choice, regardless of the year of his degree, if we arc notified ac­cordingly.—Ed.] 
Volunteers now for that reunion in '49. Your secretary, having drifted as far west as California, is not going to be able to get back for the glad handing. And since reunions need chairmen, com­mittees and some sort of organization, we are hop­ing that the local lads (South Bend-Chicago area) will come forth and offer to whip things up. Any volunteers? 
And for everyone it is time enough that you began planning your way in and out of South Bend our reunion weekend. Dates haven't been set yet, but June has been the usual month. Watch this column and watch the ALUMNUS for the details, as well as we can give them. 
A couple of more names in the neu-s before we 

close. 
BILL BOSS of Franklin, O., Camden, N. J„ and other pomts was married Oct. 30 to Patriria Jane Cloney, at St. Augustine's Church, Kalamazoo, Mich. 
JOHN COWLEY, lately of Devil's Lake, N. D IS hving m San Frandsco and leading the life of a salesman for a building paper companv. He looks very prosperous. 
lom'^To f^y^^^' business address is Ring BIdg., 
T "^ ?•,% S^^' ^^'^^I-!"?'"". D. C. H I home 
address is 1757 Que St., N.W. Washinglon. 
JOHN KANE, Warren, O., is doing graduate work at the University and is teaching in the Math­cmaucs Department. 
Graduated from Han-ard Law School. HARRY LAVERY is now associated with Campbell, Clitherd and Fischer, 1 N. LaSalle St., Chicago. 
DAVE MURPHY has a posiu'on in the sales de­partment of the American Radiator and Standard Sanitary Corp. in Chicago. 
1945 
James W. Schaeffer, 7516 N. Ho>Tie, Chicago, 111. 

DR. VINCE MURPHY is now interning at Georgetown Hospital in Washington, D. C. DR. BILL RABBETT is interning at St. Vincent's in New York City. And BERNIE SCHOO is a med­ical officer in the Na\T. His mailing address is 4448 Stratton Ave., San Diego, Calif. 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 

A. I. PORTA, '25 

A. J. PORTA, '25, comptroller of The Studebaker Corporation, South Bend, has been associated with this company since he was graduated from Notre Dame. He began his career as a billing clerk and progressed through virtually every division of the ac­counting department before being appointed comptroller of The Studebaker Pacific Cor­poration, Ix)s Angeles, Calif., in 1939. Two years later he was named chief accountant of the parent organization in South Bend; in 1944 he was elected assistant comptroller and became comptroller in 1947. 
Mrs. Porta, a former Studebaker em­ploye, was before her marriage in Novem­ber, 1928, Miss Mildred Martindale, of South Bend. They have two children: John, 16; and Sharon, 10. John has applied for admission to Notre Dame in September, 1949. Sharon attends the junior school at St. Mar>''s College. 
A native of Fort Smith, Ark., the Stude­baker comptroller passed the Indiana CPA examination in November, 1935. He is a member of the American Institute of Ac­countants, the Controllers Institute of Amer­ica and the South Bend Rotary Club. 
WHEBE ABE THE ACTUABIES? 
J. Edward Faust Jr., '45. 2041 Car­rollton Ave., fodionapolis. is as­sistant actuary of the Insurance De­partment of the State of Indiana. Ed is eager to be in communication with other Notre Dame men who or* also in actuarial work. WiU mch gentlemen please write to him? 
1946 

JOE MENE2, M.A., '46, is teaching in the de­
partment of political science at Loyola University 
in Chicago. 
On Sept. 3 GEORGE WHITTINGHAM received 
his M.A. degree from Ohio Stale University in 
Columhus. 
ED MEAGHER is now assistant editor of Com­monweat in New York City. 
1947 
Joseph D. Usina, 219 S. Scott St., South Bend, Ind. 

From /. D. VSlNAt 
Since the last issue of the ALUMNUS we have been heartened by some spontaneous news of the members of the class (prompted by our postcard reminders). Here it is: 
MIKE YARBENET writes from Eric, Pa.: *7us£ a note to say hello and give you a little news. I passed the C.P..\. exam last May and am now do­ing public accounting work here in Erie as well as teaching accounting at Gannon College. 
"Got a letter from ROLANDO DUARTE. He's working in a bank in San Salx-ador and would like some of the boys to write. His address is: Calle de Concepcion No. 9, San SaU-ador, EI SaK-ador, Centro America. 
"Saw PHIL KEEN this summer in Honesdale, Pa.; he's working for the Murray Company as ad-A \-ertising manager. JACK SCHOUTEN is with In-^ tcrnational Har\-ester as an nccountant; RAY Mc-CENERY (I think) is manager of the Erie Builders Supply Co. here in Erie. ED RECKER is with the General Motors Finance Corp. here." 
Thanks, Mike. 0\-er the Purdue and Michigan State weekends there were a number of the class around. We heard of JOHN LAVERY, GEORGE MURPHY, JIM GRIFFIN, BILL and AL WRAPE, CLINT WIL­KINS, JOHN CARON. JACK CASSIDY, DICK WALSH, WILBUR DOLL, JOE McNAMARA, and Mr. and Mrs. PAUL HIEMANN. 
The marriage of our good friend HARRY GILLI­GAN to Miss Jane Dorger was set for Oct. 20 in Cincinnati. 
BOB WOODWARD, now in attendance at Indi­ana University, is active in free-lance writing and has his first book of poetry, "Distant Journey," in the final stages of publication. His South Bend address is 1030 Vassar Ave. 
PAUL LIMONT: writes from New York that he is a sales representative of Z. & W. M. Crane, Inc., social stationers. His company\ is located in Dalton, Mass., and Paul writes he b quite pleased with his work. He sa>-s: 
**About the only thing I can donate in the way ^ of news is io say that I have seen GERRY FORD, V an end on the 43 flotsam and jetsam outfit. He and his wife. Tot, have a modeling agency in New York and are doln^ quite well at It. [Sec Life for Oct. 4 for further news of the Ford model agency.] 
"Ran into MIKE ^LANZO in Boston. He is on the lookout for something in the way of work. He was in leather sales, which sold out, leaving him high and dry. 
"Saw PAUL FENLON at one of the concerts at Tanglewood. He was in the company of one F. X. DAVIS, a trackman way back when—." 
DAVE CHAMPION passed through South Bend in early October on his way back to Chicago after a month in Cleveland. j 
JAIhlES BOREN writes from SpringhiU, La., that \ he is engaged in general practice in Sprtnghill, hav­ing completed his internship at Columbus, O., on \ July 1, 1948. Congratulations, Doctor. 
PAUL GODOLLEI writes from Cincinnati that he is returning to South Bend about the first of Novem­ber where he will be associated with Andrew A. Toth, architects. 
We are still anxious to receive any news from gmds of '47 so sit dow^n right after you read this and write i 
ANGELO BERTELLI has quit professional foot-mfA ball and will devote all his time to the sporting V| £ goods store he owns in Springfield, Afass. 1 | 
LARRY REISTER is a student at the University of Michigan. His address there is 1437 White St., Ann Arbor. GEORGE S.ALTARELLI is doing grad­uate work at Xotre Dame. His address is 1017 N. St. Peter St., South Bend. 
TOM TRIXLER is now with the Van Camp Sea Food Co., Inc.. 772 Tuna St.. Terminal Island, Calif., and lives at 660 Tcrraine, Long Beach, Calif. 
DON" WHITE, formerly of Zanesville. O.. sells photographic equipment at 48 E. Broad St., Colum­bus, O. 
JOE HA.AS has a new job in South Bend with the First Discount Corp., 911 S. Michigan St. 
BILL WICKS is employe information editor with the International Harvester Co. in Chicago. His ad­dress is 7342 S. Phillips Ave. 
BOB McBRIDE again has a busy season as coach of Mt. Carmcl High School in Chicago. His team is doing well—as usual. 
CHASE BLACK, 1017 E, Washington Ave., South Bend, has become a member of the architectural staff of Whitcomb & Keller. Inc., South Bend real estate firm. 
1948 
From HER-\fA.V ZITT: 

Tragedy has claimed the life of the second 1948 grad. ED LcCOUTEUR, A.B., in August, died at Hines Veterans* Hospital. Chicago. Sept. 19 after an illness of six weeks. Ed had been a resident of Vetvillc with his wife and son. Death resulted from complications that had set in as a result of an air­plane crash he suffered in cadet training during the war. Ed's heart v»-as ucakened by an injurj' to his leg, and the injury acted as a strain in his heart every step he took. Let's all offer up our prayers for Ed, his wife and son. 
TO^f BUO.VO's father has offered a $5,000 re­ward for information leading to the arrest and con­viction of the person or persons responsible for his son's death. On Nfay 20, after several earlier ses­sions, a coroner's jur>" in Chicago finally termed the death caused by drowning, complicated by bar­biturate poisoning. 
Since the September-October issue of the .-\I.UMN*US the following members of the class have decided to forsake the happv da>-s of bachelorhood for family life: JOHN' DOYLE. Sept. 18; DICK ELLIOTT. Oct. 4; VINXE BORYLA, Sept. 18; GERARD SARB, Oct. 16; GEORGE SCHILLING. Oct. 9; CORNTE STYERS, Aug. 17; and DAVE WALTER, Oct. 2. 
PAUL CARTWRIGHT is in business with his brother DAVE, '45. manufacturing metallic pump packing. JOHN HIGGIXS is an engineer for the 
J. F. Higgins & Co. in St. Louis. FR.\NK ROBIN­SOX is now working for Burroughs in South Bend. 
BILL PALMER is assistant manager for W. C. Palmer Florist, Louisville, Ky. 
MIKE HUNT is the deputy probation officer, Richmond, Calif. JOHN PARKER is a grad stu­dent in bacteriology- at the Cincinnati General Hos­pital. BILL FERRICK is a sales representative for Remington-Rand. Chicago. J.^CK LE.\HY is man­ager of the Leahy Insurance Agencj-, South Bend. BILL REILLY is office manager for the J. S. Woodhouse Co., Downington, Pa. STAN* MOO.V is doing grad work at Washington U. in St. Louis. 
JI.M EVERT is playing pro tennis. J.ACK R.AUCH is a salesman for the Colorado Motor Mart, Ft. Collins, Colo. H.ARRY REICH is an engineer for the American Cast Iron Pipe Co., Birmingham, Ala. JIM DRONEY is doing grad work at the U. of Vermont. L.-\RRY LUIDELL is a metallurgist for the American Can Co. in Ma>-wood, III. BOB DASCHB.ACH is in medical school at Georgetown while JOHN K.ANE is in med school at Wayne. 
ROY L.AUGHLIN* is manager of the Laughlin Packing Co., Franklin. Ind. PAUL CARROLL is taking grad work in ph^-sics at Notre Dame. M.'\X HILE is athletic director. Winchester High School. Winchester. Ky. LOUIS CARUSO is practicing law in LaiLsing, .Midi. RAY MULVEY is a teacher of social studies in the West Brook, Conn., schools. JOHN KRAMER is in med school at the U. of Pennsylvania. JOE BREN'XAX is with Indiana BeD in Indianapolis. JAMES CARROLL is an engi­neer with the Creole Petroleum Corp., Vene­2uela. BILL SIEBERT is manager of the Carley Coal Co., Stevens Point. Wis. FRANK STEX­STROM is a lumber broker for the White Water Logging Co., Lewiston, Idaho. 
BOB ETZEL is now instructing at Niagara Uni­versity, Niagara Falls, N. Y. Bob is from Toledo, O. P.\T FIN'.AX is now with the First Discount Corp., in South Bend. 
The Spaulding Institute in Peoria. III., has ac* quired another Notre Dame coach—^JOHX GOO­NEN signed as head basketball coach. ENNIO AR­BOIT. '38. IS head football coach in the same school. St. John's University in CollegeWlle. Minn., signed BUSTER HILLER as head basketball coach. Buster also will assist JOE BENDA, '28, with foot­ball at St. John's. 
BILL HUNTLEY is in the dog racing business in Daytona Beach, Fla. Bill resides at 725 N. Greenway Dr., Coral Gables, Fla. 
NORB IMMEL is BOW attending the JVortbwesteni University pre-dental school. Also at Northwestern, doing graduate work is LEONE MARINELLO, while BILL KORNBLUM is attending the University of Illinois. 
DON OHLAIEYER is working as a brewery chem­ist with the Fox Brewery in Chic^o. 
JOE YONTO and STEVE PAVELA signed coach­ing contracts at St. Mary's High school in ftfichigan City, Ind. Joe is coaching football and track while Steve Is handling baseball and basketball. 
JIM WEBB is employed in the material control department of the Bendix Aviation plant in South Bend, where he and his wife reside at 510 £ . Washington A\'e. 
CHARLIE HASTINGS has a new }6b with the .American Blower Corp. in Detroit, where ^OH N BRENNAN, '27, is director of Student Traifing. 
2>a 7/au Hememken. 
That 40 Years Ago: 
.•\ course in raining engineering was of­fered at Notre Dame for the first time. • * • Seumas MacManus, the distinguished Irish litterateur, completed a series of fotirteen lectures on "The Writing of English and Certain Literar>- Periods." • • • >few elec­tric light equipment was installed in Brown-son wash-room. * • * The feature entertain­ment of President's Day was a presentation of "The Corsican Brothers": J. Elmer Peak, as the twin brothers, "effective," and Claude \. Sorg, as Chateau Renaud, "exceptionally good." * * * Busts of Mozart, Beethoven, Liszt, and Wagner were acquired for the Music Hall. • * * Commemorated the Sil­ver Jubilee of the foundation of the Laetare Medal. * * * Walter Duncan was president of his freshman class; the sophomore class president was Elmo Funk. 
[t Was 25 Years Ago That: 
Canes were adopted by the Seniors as their mark of distinction, different colleges having variously colored canes. » » » Owen 
E. Desmond was in charge of the Senior Ball—"apogee of the 1924 social whirl." Various committees were headed by George Glynn, Walter Stapleton, Frank O'Boyle, Robert Scoggins, Paul Kennedy, Leo Ca\-a­naugh and Thomas Walsh. » • * The Lae­tare Medal was presented to Walter George Smith, Philadelphia attorney, on the occa­sion of the fortieth annual presentation of the medal. * * • Members of the Notre Dame band were furnished new "natty blue" uniforms, complete with leather puttees and "Sam Brown" belts. * * * The Hon. Thom­as F. Konop, former United States congress­man and prominent attorney, was appointed as the new dean oi the College of Law. » * * Mr. James E. McCarthy was ap­pointed to act as assistant dean to the Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, then dean of the College of Commerce. * • * The Rev. J. Hugh O'DonncU, C.S.C, late president of the University, assumed the duties of Pre­fect of Discipline, • * * Notre Dame beat .Army, 13-0. • » » The alumni business and professional directory was published for the first time. 
And Onlr 10 Yean Ago: 
The University opened its 97th year with a student enrollment of 3100. • * • Con­struction on the Rockne Memorial Field House neared completion. • • • Some of the world's foremost scholars gathered at Notre Dame to attend a Symposium on Political and Social Philosophy. Among addresses given were those by Jacques Maritain, Des­mond Fitzgerald, Yves R. Simon, and Mor­timer J. Adler. • • » The 2Ist annual Laymen's Retreat, held on the campus, Aug. 4 to 7. attracted 1,200 men. « • • "Room Service," grand old drama complete \»ith ice-bags and moose-heads, was presented by the University Theatre. * * * The first issue of The Review of Politics, Notre Dame quarterly dealing with political theories and realities, appeared on local newsstands. • * • Miss Ethel Barrymore, one of the most famous names of the American theatre, led the Jitney Players through a rollicking performance of "Dear Old Alma Mater," classic comedy of American college life. » • • Father John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, pres­ident of the University, sailed for South .\merica as one of a delegation headed by Secretary of State Cordell Hull to represent this country in the Pan American confer­ence at Lima, Peru. 

Natural Law Institute 
The second annual Natural Law Insti­tute will be held at Notre Dame, Friday and Saturday, Dec. 10 and U. 
The program will be devoted to the his­toric development of the natural law and to an exposition of the current conditions of the natual law philosophy in American jur­isprudence. Last year's Natural Law Insti­tute was sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of New York. This year's institute is being sponsored by Alvin A. Gould, O., business­man. The sessions will be open to the public. 
Do your friends subscribe to THE REVIEW OF POLITICS? Now completing its tenth year. 
S 

A Notre Dame Contribution to American Culture 
Canon Bernard Iddings Bell says: 
"The Review of Politics is, in these days of confused political thinking and consequent action leading toward disaster and woe, an exceedingly useful journal. Definitely CathoUc, it is never obscurantist or sentimen­tal. It is informed about facts and yet does not lose sight of that which is deeper than facts. I find that I must read it and that I enjoy reading it." 
Editor: Waldcmar Gurian Managing Editors: Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C. and Frank O'Malley 

The Review of Politics publishes articles on national and international affairs and on religion, history, philosophy and other fields of Christian culture by outstanding Amer­ican and European scholars. 
The  SUBSCRIPTIO N  BLAN K  
REVIEW OF POLITICS  The  Editors of  the  REVIEW OF POLITICS  
makes a fine gift for a  Notre Dame, Indiana  
friend of Notre Dame  Please enter my subscription to the Review  of Politics tor....  year(s),  
at $3.00 per year.  
Name  
For one year.  $3.00  Street  ­ 
For one issue  $1.00  •  Check enclosed  City.  .  
Foreign  Subscription..$3.40  •  Please send bill  State  1  

THE UNIVERSITY • 
1948 TAX TABLE ; 
i 
I 
NET COST TO YOU OF A GIFT IN THE AMOUNT OF: 
Net Taxable 

i™ e $200 $400 $600 $800 $1000 $1600 $2000 $5000 $10000 $20000 
$ 4,000 158.20 316.40 6,000 150.60 301.20 451.80 8,000 143.00 286.00 429.00 572:6o 
10,000 135.40 270.80 406.20 541.60 677.00 I 16,000 110.70 221.40 332.10 442.80 553.50 885.60 20,000 99.30 198.60 297.90 397.20 496.50 794,40 1050.00 50,000 63.20 126.40 189.60 252.80 316.00 505.60 632.00 1580.00 
100,000 34.70 69.40 104.10 138.80 173.50 277.60- 347.00 -867.50 2020.00 
200.000 29.00 58.00 87.00 116.00 145.00 232.00 290.00 725.00 1450.00 2900.00 
Note: Gifts hy individuals up to 15 per cent of taxable gross income are deductible for Federal Income Tax purposes. 
* Cost percentage taken from Commerce Clearing House, Inc., 1948 U. S. Master Tax Guide. 
The local committees or the University of Notre Dame Foundation will be pleased to answer any inquiries and give assistance and advice to anyone having a particular tax problem. 
1 
1948 MANUAL and GUIDE  
INDEX  
(Inside Front Cover) TAX TABLE The net cost, after tax deductions, of individual gifts to the University of Notre Dame.  
NEEDS OF NOTRE DAME Buildings, augmenting teaching staff, student aid, special funds, endowment.  
FOREWORD _ Purpose and composition of the 1948 Manual.  
JOB OF THE CITY COMMinEE Analysis of job, organization and procedure for the City Committeemen.  6-7  
CITy COMMIHEE PROGRAM Alumni participation in first 6 months of 1948. uncontacled alumni and friends' participation in second 6 months.  
MASTER TABLE : 1946 and 1947 record of States, Chairman and non-Chairman cities, contributions to the Notre Dame Foundation. Included is the Alumni Population, number of givers, amount, percentage o{ the number contributing, average contribution, number of friends and amount.  9-17  
RECAPITULATION AND SUPPLEMENT TO THE MASTER TABLE ..„. General breakdown of 1947 Alumni and Friends' Gifts, comparisons of percentages of number and amount for 1947, and $500.00 Chairman CiUes in 1947. Classified Table of 1946 and 1947 Gifts, and a comparative analysis of Alumni and Friends' Gifts, .1941-1947.  18-19  
OUTLOOK FOR 1948 CONTRIBUTIONS . .. A look into the history of former.giving, both alumni and friends, with a forecast for 1948 giving.  20  
LIST OF 1947 FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTORS — GEOGRAPHICAL __.... An alphabetical listing, by states and cities, of the contributors to the Notre Dame Foundation in 1947.  21-49  
DEPARTMENTAL GIFTS —CASH OR OTHERWISE Gifts of art and books, gifts for research, etc., to variousin 1947.   colleges  and departments  of the University  50-51  
LIST OF ALUMNI TO BE CHECKED FOR DIREQORy PURPOSES — GEOGRAPHICALAn alphabetical listing of alumni, by states and cities, to be checked for correct addresses, etc.  .  52-65  
THE BEQUEST AND LIVING TRUST COMMIHEE _....... Purpose of the Bequest and Living Trust Committee and a list of the committees to date.  67  
LIST OF CITY CHAIRMEN AND COMMIHEEMEN _ An alphabetical listing of the Foundation's City Chairmen and Committeemen by states and cities.  68-70  
[Inside Back Cover) FOUNDATION STAFF AND GOVERNORS. ALUMNITRUSTEES. AND UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION   BOARD.  UNIVERSITy  

Needs of Notre Dome 
These are requirements summarized by Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, c.s.c, executive assistant to the President, for ade­quate care of the present enroUnjent of 4,500 students. They do not represent the ultimate permanent development of the University. It is obvious that the amounts suggested here are approximations, subject to variations in building costs, wages, and investment returns. 
As indicated in the February issue of FORTUNE magazine, an article entitled "Alma Mater Asks for Two Billion Dollars" lists Notre Dame as needing 25 million for building e-xpansion, research, and scholarships. 
I. BUILDINGS 

1. Residence Halls to house properly the present student-body: 
a)
 Graduate Students' Hall. 


b)
 Four residence halls for undergraduates. 


2.
 Student Union Building: rooms for student clubs and activities; ballroom for dances and gatherings; refreshment center for students, their families and friends; dining facilities. 

3.
 College of Arts and Letters Building: classrooms, conference and seminar rooms for philosophy, history, languages, social sciences and other A.B. courses. 

4.
 Fine Arts Building: to include auditorium for en­tire student body and graduations; facilities for Departments of Music, Art, Radio and Communi­cations, Speech, and Dramatics. 

5.
 Chemistry Building: classrooms and laboratories for teaching and research, including atomic energy laboratories. 

6.
 Memorial Librarj': present library to be reserved for Mediaeval Institute, archives and art gallery. 

7.
 Bacteriology Laboratories: for research in germ-free life, cancer, control of disease germs. 

8.
 Physics Building: classrooms; research laborato­ries in electronics, nuclear physics, etc. 

9.
 Field House: to replace present gymnasium. 

10.
 Memorial Chapel: in honor of the war dead. 


II. SUPPORT AND AUGMENTING OF TEACHING STAFF: additional training of present teachers and addition of outstanding scholars to the staff is needed to keep the faculty a first-rate teaching group. Notre Dame must raise endo\vment for: (a) salaries of teachers engaged in research; (b) professorships in each Department offering higher degrees; (c) dis­tinguished service professorships; (d) funds to bring in visiting professors and special lecturers; (e) funds to support teachers making special studies at other cen­ters of learning. All of these are an integral part of a University that is improving the quality of its teaching. 
IIL STUDENT AID PROGRAM: to support needy stu­dents of superior calibre. This involves: (a) scholar­ships for the Graduate School; (b) Post-doctoral scholarships, for exceptional scholars to work at Notre Dame after taking doctorates; (c) Scholarships for needy imdergraduates whose, exceptional talents make them highly desirable as members of the alumni. Note: A permanent 4-year scholarship for a deserving student requires a fund of some $50,000; a pre-doc­toral fellowship, $65,000; a post-doctoral fellowship, $150,000. 
IV. SPECIAL FUNDS: are highly desirable to provide 
(a)
 for Teachers Retirement and Sick Relief; (b) for Employees' Pensions and Sick Relief; (c) for pur­chase of new books and upkeep of the Library; (d) for support of the learned publications, such as The Review of Politics, The American Midland Natural­ist and the others. 

V.
 GENERAL UNRESTRICTED ENDOWMENT: to meet emergencies and unforeseen opportunities. There are now some 25 imiversities in the country that have more than $20,000,000 of endowment. Notre Dame has $4,214,294.49, and ranks ninety-fifth. We should like to see her among the first ttventy-five. 


Foreword 

UH€^ iJwl€Mt€€€l€ comprises a basic "set of tools" with which city committees and alumni may fashion their programs of personal solici­tation for the Foundation in 1948. 
Everything is here . . . lists of alumni donors and non-alumm donors .. . by states and by cities .. . lists of non-contributing alumni ... gifts by states and cities ... in number and amount... by alumni and non-alumni . . . and other helpful analyses of the financial record of 1947, the Foundation's inaugural year .. . all to be made use of as you see fit, to meet your.o^vn local situation in 1948. 
This is the soil upon which we stand . . . with its good record of productivity last year . . . wt h its rich potentailities for a far more abundant harvest this year. 
It is soil which needs a lot of tilling—intensively in the first months of the year—more extensively in the latter months. 
First must come the now-traditional "cultivation of our own gar­den"—confirmation and solicitation of the lists of our own alumni and non-graduate former students, ^vith a steady, continuous effort to encourage a full 100% participation and the raising of our financial sights. 
And then there Avill follow a fuller concentration upon the prepar­ation of lists, in each community, of those non-alumni friends of Notre Dame who are potential contributors—lists which will be mailed to the Campus Staff and "serviced" from there in cooperation with the local committees. 
It is to give you encouragement, and a base, that we have indi­cated our present small, but loyal and generous, group of friends in bold face type in the list of 1947 contributors. They are shining ex­amples for others. 
First we pte... and then we get. But still in your own way—and at your own convenience. 
The Job of the City Committee 
We cannot repeat too often that the effectiveness of the Foundation's plan depends on the abiUty and activity of each City Committee. The chairman of a City Committee and his committee members consti­tute the "guiding spirit" of the entire operation. The sum total of all City Committee efforts will deter­mine the future position of Notre Dame University. It is a challenge .. . it is a great responsibility. 
The foIlo^^ing outline was prepared to give suggestions as to methods in the attainment of maximum results. It is not intended to be dictum, for ultimate results will depend largely on the spontaneity of each committee member. Nevertheless, the suggestions made are worthy of careful and sympathetic study. Whatever plan you adopt, ultimately, should receive your best efforts and enthusiasm. 

%Hp f . . . ANALYZE YOUR JOB 
The size of the job varies form city to city. Each city will require an organization to meet local re­quirements. What is the number of Alumni? How many former students, non-graduates? How many friends from your city are listed with the University (the names are indicated in the Chair­man's "Kit")? How many Alumni have been supporting the University? How many should be contacted personally, etc.? This type of a review is essential for the next step. 

Step II . , , PLAN YOUR ORGANIZATION 
The organization, in size and character, will depend on the size of the job and the objectives to be accomplished. Your analysis of the job should indicate the personnel needed. If the initial commit­tee needs to be enlarged by a sub-committee, plans should be laid for additional enlistments, then determine the duties and assign them to each member. 

Step Iff . . . PLAN AND PREPARE YOUR PROCEDURE 
Concurrently, while you are building your organization, plan and outline the procedure you expect to follow. When meetings of the Conmiittee are held, the chairman should explain in detail just what is expected of the Committee collectively and individually. Consider the "special contacts" to be made with Alumni, with friends, and who should make them. 
Step fV . . . THE JOB 
A. Review the list of Alumni — note the amount subscribed by each. Should any of them give more? If so, who should make the approach? Note especially those who have not supported the University during the past and the current year. Plan an approach and assign each name to a member of the local committee's organization for piersonal interview. 
B. Review the Ust of former students. Go over this list carefully to determine their current ad­dress. All addresses known to be incorrect should be reported to the Campus Office of the Foundation. Plan to contact all who live in your city. Invite them to join with other Notre Dame-men in support of the University. Follow the same procedure in planning contacts as you planned for the Alumni — the difference will be in approach, as this group is not so fa­miUar with current developments as the Alumni. 
Important Note: The cooperation of Local clubs should be enlisted by City Committees of which the Local Club President is an ex-officio member, as the Club may consider making con­tacts with all graduates and non-graduate Notre Dame men in the area. Also, note under Step IV 'T)" how each Club may assist in securing the names of "friends" from among the CathoUc population in the area. 
C. Review the list of ''friends of the University." Note those who have made gifts this year, and those who have not. Determine who should call personally on those who have not given during the current year. This list should be reviewed carefully — assignments for persoi^ contacts made to the best person possible. 
D. The three categories above give you the names of those who are on record at the University. Now turn attention to those "Friends andPotential Friends" who are not recorded at the Uni­versity. 
To bring them on record, the following suggested procedure is submitted: Ask the City Club President to assign one or two members from each of the parishes in your area the job of re­viewing the membership of each parish to select those who they feel are, or should be, interested in Notre Dame. (This should not be considered as an official parish survey.) 
Since the University will spend time and funds in cultivating the interest of those whose names are submitted to the University, the list should be screened by the local committee to eliminate those whose interest may prove nebulous. 
This list of "friends" should be submitted as prospects whom the Committee will ultimately call upon personally. The names are needed as quickly as possible for cultivation by literatiure, let­ters, etc. After screening, the list should be forwarded to the Campus Office of the Foundation. (Forms are provided for this purpose. It would prove helpful if certain pertinent information is supplied with each name, as indicated on the form.) 
There are many friends among non-Catholics who are interested in Notre Dame. Special pro­vision should be made to secure these names and with the same disposition as indicated above with Catholics. 
Some Corporations are potential supporters of the University. The University Foundation de­sires their names also. 
Many private foundations have been created during the past few years. These foundations have been created for charitable and educational purposes. Some may be in your community. If so, the names of all such foundations should be supplied to the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Step V . . . REPORTING 

All remittances should be sent by the City Committee or donor direcdy to "The University of Notre Dame Foundation, Main Building, Notre Dame, Indiana." All checks should be made payable to "The University of Notre Dame." Gifts of securities should also be made to the University. 
A receipt will be sent to each donor by the President of the University. 
Step Vf . . . SUMMARY IN REVIEW 
1.
 Make your Committee representative. 

2.
 Choose and enlist your personnel. 

3.
 Brief your personnel. 


4.
 Make full use of all educational material. 

5.
 See individually each person to be called upon. (There is no substitute for personal contacts.) 

6.
 Set a high standard. 

7.
 Report progress. 



1^ 
8. Follow through until the job is done. 
7 

City Committee Program for 1948 
First Six Months — 1. Secure 100 per cent participation of alumni, including non-graduates, in the Sixth Annual Alumni Fund phase of the Foundation.  
2. Emphasize contact wdth those alumni who are not listed as participating in 1947, through early contact for correctness of address, or any other reason which might logically interfere with con­tributions.  
3. Study methods of increasing contributions, in amounts. We are not trying to exert pressure to secure contributions beyond individual means, but full information of the University's needs should result in many increases, as should the use of the gift cards providing for deferred giving through the year.  i  
4. Confact wherever possible the non-graduate former student.come in the Alumni Association if interested.   These men are ehgible to and wel­ 
5. Secure from the personal contacts with the Notre Dame men above the names of non-alumni Friends of the Universitj' of Notre Dame, who may be interested in the Foundation program.  
Second Six Months —  
1. Follow up and uncontacted alumni or non-graduate former students toward the 100 per cent Notre Dame participation.  
2. Coflfocf and bmld the list of Friends of the University of Notre Dame, keeping in mind the value of the small annual gift, the larger gifts for some special project, and the special prospect whom you may wish to have contacted directiy from the University for potential major benefactions.  %  
3. Develop the work of the Bequest and Living Trust Committee in the placing of Notre Dame in wills, trusts, etc.  
4. Survey and contact, or suggest for direct contact, local corjmrations, or private foundations, which might be sources of support for the University or any of the phases of Notre Dame's pro­gram.  

Note: In both the above periods, the Committees have a helpful and tangible suggestion for those interested in the plan to "Give or Get $200" annually suggested in the February ALUMNUS. It is not advanced as a quota or a must, but as a concrete example of how a magniiicent job can be done collectively through relatively modest individual action. J 
MASTER TABLE 
Reflecting Gifts By Alumni and Friends for 1946-7 In 203 nhaiifnan Cities 
ALUMNI  FRIENDS  
STATE & CITY  NUMBER ALUMNI GIVERS  AMOUNT  OF NO.  AVERAGE GIFT  NUMBER GIVERS  AMOUNT  II COiaiNED TOTAL  -K» -OVER IMC  
ALABAMA  
Non-Ch.Cities  . 4 6  1 2 3  $ 10.00 6.00 32.00  25 50 50  $10.00 3.00  —  ^Z  $ 10.00 6.00 32.00  4.00—  
'47 State Total  10  5  38.00  50  38.00  
ARIZONA Phopniir (n) Non-Ch. Cities  18 9 2  9 14 5 5 2  230.00 331.00 38.00 120.00 30.00  50 77 55 55 100  25.55 23.64 7.60 24.00  __  ~  •  230.00 331.00 38.00 120.00 30.00  101.00-f 82.00-1­ 
'47 State Total  29  21  481.00  70  481.00  
ARKANSAS Little Rock Non-Ch. Cities  _.  9 16  2 5 12  45.00 88.00 267.00  22 55 75  22.50 17.60  —  ™  45.00 88.00 267.00  43.00+  
'47 State Total  25  17  355.00  68  355.00  
CALIFORNIA Los Angeles (c) San Francisco (c) Non-Ch. Cities '47 State Total  450 108 90 648  81 157 45 57 43 257  1136.00 2109.00 559.00 1682.00 742.00 4533.00  18 34 41 52 48 40  14.02 13.43 12.42 29.50  6 9 1 3 2 14  9670.00 23607.00 100.00 120.00 260.00 23987.00  10,806.00 25,716.00 659.00 1802.00 1002.00 28520.00  14910.00-t­1143.00-H  
COLORADO Denver (c) Pueblo Non-Ch. Cities '47 State Total  74 3 •23 100  22 47 1 2 16 65  299.00 620.00 5.00 20.00 89.00 729.00  29 63 33 66 70 65  13.59 13.19 5.00 10.00  ~1 1  5.o6" 5.00  299.00 625.00 5.00 20.00 89.00 734.00  326.00+ 15.00+  
CONNECTICUT Hartford Non-Ch. Cities  28 14 193  17 17 7 10 91  163.00 299.00 63.00 180.00 1483.00  60 60 50 71 47  9.58 17.58 9.00 18.00  7 12 ~6  90.00 86.00 75.00  253.00 299.00 149.00 180.00 1558.00  46.00+ 31.00+  
'47 State Total  235  118  1962.00  50  6  75.00  2037.00  
DELAWARE Non-Ch. Cities  35 12  17 • 12 7  195.00 113.00 47.00  45 34 58  11.47 9.41  .._  —  •  195.00 113.00 47.00  82.00—  
'47 State Total  47  19  160.00  40  160.00  
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA  158  79 89  1596.00 4727.00  50 56  20.20 52.52  1  5.00  1601.00 4727.00  3126.00+  
158  , 89  4727.00  56  52.52  4727.00  
FLORIDA  

6 4 60.00 66 15.00 60.00 
6 95.00 100 15.83 "l 1000.00 1095.00 1035.00+ 
First line of city reflects 1946; second, 1947. NOTE: In some instances total alumni membership includes or excludes old students. Local committees can make adjustments. 
FRIENDS 
ALUMNI -J-OR­
94 

COMBINED OVER GIFT TOTAL 1946 
NUMBER OF AVERAGE NUMBER 
STATE & crr v ALUMNI GIVERS AMOUNT NO. GIVERS AMOUNT 
LakelandJacksonvillePalm Beach ......Non.Cfa. Cities  _  4  11 7  52  3 2 7 8 5 4 36.  40.00 lo.oa 203.00 585.00 55.00 42.00 1759.00  75 50 63 72 71 57 69  13.33 5.00 29.00 73.12 11.00 10.50  5.00 235.00  40.00 10.00 203.00 590.00 290.00 42.00 1759.00  30.00— 387.00+ 248.00—  
'47 State Total  80  56  2491.00  70  1005.00  3496.00  
GEORGLA. AtlantaNon-Ch. Cities'47 State Total  „  _  11  10  21  6 6 5 11  160.00 90.00 35.00 125.00 54 54 50  52  26.66 15.00  5.00  165.00 90.00 35.00 125.00  75.00—  
IDAHO BoiseIdaho FallsNon-Ch. Cities  7 5 3  5.00 510.00 37.00 25.00 25.00  14 42 80 60 100  5.00 170.00 9.25 8.33  5.00 510.00 37.00 • 25.00 25.00  505.00+ 12.00—  
'47 State Total  15  560.00  60  560.00  
ILLINOIS Chicago (c) Jolict Molinc Peoria . Rockford (c)Rock IslandSpringfieldSterling .„Non-Ch. Cities  .1378 .... 41 62  23 8  53  12 287  559 929 16 24 1 2 36 62 9 13 4 6 19 37 3 10 283  9091.00 14168.00 111.00 174.00 5.00 15.00 243.00 1132.00 695.00 4348.00 47.00 75.00 . 302.00 462.00 87.00 118.00 4675.00  41 67 39 58 11 22 58 100 39 56 50 75 35 69 25 83 99  16.26 15.25 6.93 7.25 5.00 7.50 6.75 18.25 77.52 210.57 11.75 12.50 15.89 12.48 29.00 11.80  83 64 12135  44763.00 32579.00  1800.00  2550.00  1000.00  6817.00 2840.00  53854.00 46747.00 111.00 174.00 5.00 15.00 2043.00 3682.00 1695.00 11165.00 47.00 75.00 302.00 462.00 87.00 118.00 7515.00  7107.00— 63.00+ 10.00+ 1639.00+ 9470.00+ 28.00+ 160.00+ 31.00+  
'47 State Total  ....1873  1366  25167.00  73  74  44786.00  69953.00  
INDIANA AndersonBedfordEast ChicagoElkhartEv-ansvilleFt. Wayne (c)Gary .HammondIndianapolis (6)KokomoI^ayetteLogansportLaporteMichigan CityMuncie  16 7 9  22  28  107 . 39  20  285  12  14  12  15  22  12  3 7 1 3 3 7 4 14 II 25 40 94 16 22 12 17 107 195 7 9 4 11 6 7 5 8 8 16 7 12  15.00 75.00 5.00 20.00 135.00 166.00 70.00 130.00 295.00 482.00 435.00 2286.00 215.00 202.00 235.00 299.00 2675.00 3812.00 1180.00 205.00 1270.00 427.00 70.00 75.00 55.00 65.00 100.00 181.00 45.00 103.00  18 43 14 43 33 77 18 63 39 89 37 87 41 56 60 85 37 68 58 75 28 78 50 58 33 53 36 72 58 100  5.00 10.71 5.00 6.66 45.00 23.71 17.50 9.28 26.81 19.28 10.87 24.32 13.43 9.18 19.58 17.58 25.00 19.54 168.57 22.77 317.50 35.70 11.66 10.71 11.00 8.12 12.50 11.31 6.42 8.58  1 1 12  105.00 100.00 1050.00 200.00 50.00 3150.00 10.00 100.00 10.00  15.00 75.00 5.00 20.00 240.00 266.00 70.00 1180.00 295.00 682.00 485.00 5436.00 215.00 202.00 235.00 299.00 2675.00 3822.00 1180.00 205.00 1270.00 427.00 170.00 75.00 55.00 65.00 100.00 191.00 45.00 103.00  60. ,00+ 15. ,00+ 26. ,00+ 1110. ,00+ 387. .00+ 4951. .00+ 13 ,00— 64. ,00+ 1147. .00+ 975. ,00— 843. 00— 95. 00— 10. .00+ 91. .00+ 58. .00+  
First line of city reflects 1946; second, 1947.  

NOTE: In some instances total alumni membership includes or excludes old students. Local committees can make adjustments. 
AUJMNI  FKIENDS  
STATE s  crrv  .  NiaraERALUMNI GIVERS  AMOUNT  96 OF NO.  AVERAGE GIFT 1  NUUBOt GIVERS  AMOUNT  COMBINED TOTAL  -»-DR­OVER 1946  
Notre Dame South Bend and Mishawaka Terre Haute Vincennes Whiting Non-Ch. Cities  61 ... 9 11 734 10 8 14 .173  34 50 7 4 5 282 600 3 6 3 7 9 9 91  288.00 2887.00 70.00 190.00 150.00 29865.00 21600.00 140.00 200.00 55.00 68.00 158.00 160.00 1036.00  55 81 77 36 45 39 82 30 60 37 87 64 64 53  8.47 41.77 . 10.00 47.50 30.00 102.27 36.00 46.66 33.33 18.33 9.71 17.55 17.77  1 2 •­— -«. — «— 18 19 1 2  31334.00 12585.00 .«. ..«. 8416.00 7626.00 — 50.00 — 15.00  31622.00 15472.00 » M 70.00 190.00 150.00 38281.00 29226.00 140.00 200.00 55.00 118.00 158.00 160.00 1051.00  16150.00— 70.00-f­40.00— • 8955.00— 60.00-f­63.00-f­2.00-}­ 
'47  State Total  1640  1222  34699.00  75  43  24796.00  59495.00  
rs  IOWA Non-Ch.  Cities  20 27 36 4 115  9 15 12 19 13 19 3 4 39  276.00 254.00 213.00 221.00 125.00 123.00 70.00 85.00 457.00  45 75 44 70 36 52 75 100 34  30.66 16.93 17.75 11.63 9.61 6.47 23.33 21.25  .... ..— ••.. I 1 .... ..—  -«. 1000.00 5.00 .... .—  276.00 254.00 213.00 1221.00 130.00 123.00 ­a 70.00 85.00 457.00  22.00— I008.00-f 7.00— 15.00-F  
•47 State Total  202  96  1140.00  48  1  1000.00  2140.00  
KANSAS  
Non-Ch.  Cities  6 56  4 6 24  160.00 95.00 213.00  66 100 43  40.00 13.83  1 1  .... 25.00 25.00  160.00 120.00 238.00  40.00—  
'47  State Total  62  30  308..00  48  2  50.00  358.00  
KENTUCKY Non-Ch. Cities  91 47  41 70 39  1480.00 1583.00 519.00  45 76 83  36.09 22.29  2 3 2  127.00 210.00 27.00  1607.00 1793.00 546.00  186.00+  
'47  State Total  _  138  109  2102.00  79  5  237.00  2339.00  
LOUISIANA  
Shreveport Non-Ch. Cities  ,  ... 33 11 21  22 20 9 5 10  275.00 246.00 105 00 119.00 64.00  66 60 81 45 48  12.50 12.30 11 66 23.80  4 2  65.00 1500.00 —  340.00 1746.00 105 00 119!00 64.00  1406.00+ 14.00+  
-ij  '47 State Total MAINE Non-Ch. Cities '47 State Total  65 1 1 9 11  35 1 1 1 4 5  429.00 4.00 3.00 5.00 25.00 28 00  54 100 100 100 44 45  4.00 3.00 5 00  2 —  1500.00 ....  1929.00 4.00 3.00 5.00 25.00 28.00  1.00— 5.0O—  
MARYLAND Non-Ch. Cities  .. 49 42  34 33 23  345.00 382.00 1439.00  69 67 55  10.14 11.57  6 1  95.00 _100.00  440.00 382.00 1539.00  58.00—  
'47 State Total  91  56  1821.00  62  1  100.00  1921.00  
MASSACHUSETTS  
3 2 19 9  2 1 1 1 8 10 5 3  30.00 25.00 5.00 10.00 89.00 203.00 87.00 65.00  66 33 50 50 42 52 55 33  15.00 25.00 5.00 10.00 11.12 20.30 17.40 21.66  4 i  28 00 5.00  30.00 25.00 5.00 10.00 117.00 203.00 87.00 70.00  5.00— 5.00+ 86.00+ 17.00—  

First line of city reflects 1946; second, 1947. 
NOTE: In some instances total alumni membenhip includes or excludes old students. Local committees can make adjustments.­
n 

ALUMNI  FRIENDS  
+ OR ­ 
STATE & CaTY  NUMBER ALUMNI GIVERS  AMOUNT  OF NO.  AVERAGE GIFT  GIVERSNUMBER   .\MOUNT  COMBINED TOTAL  OVER 1946  

Cambridge Chicopec. ­Clinton Fall River Haverhill .. Holyoke Hyannis Lawrence Lowell (8) ._ Lynn (9) • Melrose (10) Milford Northampton'(12) Pembroke Sprinfield (14) Taunton Worcester (15) Non-Ch. Cities  ... 14 ... 4 ... 4 ... 10 ... 1 ... 9 .. 1 .. 4 .. 12 .. 16 .. 13 .. 9 .. 5 .. 1 .. 36 .. 4 .­ 22 .. 84  5 4 2 2 3 3 5 4 1 1 9 8 1 1 2 2 6 4 7 6 8 9 2 8 3 3 1 1 14 16 4 4 12 7 76  52.00 25.00 15.00 10.00 45.00 65.00 67.00 40.00 100.00 15.00 140.00 91.00 5.00 5.00 30.00 27.00 70.00 17.00 65.00 37.00 82.00 90.00 105.00 554.00 20.00 36.00 500.00 10.00 355.00 525.00 35.00 35.00 749.00 100.00 1224.00  35 28 50 50 75 75 50 59 100 100 100 88 100 100 50 50 50 33 43 37 61 69 22 88 60 60 100 100 38 44 100 100 54 31 90  10.40 6.25 7.50 5.00 15.00 21.66 13.40 10.00 100.00 15.00 15.55 11.37 5.00 5.00 15.00 13.50 11.66 4.25 9.28 6.16 10.25 10.00 52.50 69.25­6.66 12.00 500.00 10.00 25.35 32.81 8.75 8.75 62.41 14.72  1TT16 1 1  10.00 5.00 5.00 20.00 5.00 35.00  10.00  45.66  260.66 5.00 357.00 300.00 10.00 140.66  62.00 25.00 20.00 10.00 45.00 65.00 72.00 60.00 105.00 15.00 175.00 91.00 5.00 5.00 40.00 27.00 115.00 17.00 325.00 37.00 82.00 90.00 105.00 554.00 25.00 36.00 500.00 10.00 712.00 825.00 45.00 35.00 889.00 100.00 1224.00  37.00— 10.00— 20.00+ 12.00— 90.00— 84.00— 13.00— 98.00— 288.00— 8.00+ 449.00+ 11.00+ 490.00— 113.00+ 10.00— 789.00—  
'47  State  Total  .282  174  3209.00  62  325.00  3534.00  
MICHIGAN  
Battle Creek ~Benton HarborDetroit (3)FlintGrand RapidsJacksonKalamazooMonroeMuskegonPort HuronSaginawNon-Ch. Cities  (4)  '. .'.  ... „  16  42  322  24  90  14  11  12  17  15  46  153  5 8 12 28 104 185 12 14 24 55 6 12 9 11 6 9 12 15 6 11 20 31 112  60.00 69.00 108.00 252.00 2088.00 13818.00 275.00 205.00 358.00 877.00 51.00 165.00 370.00 426.00 50.00 100.00 795.00 410.00 67.00 69.00 348.00 376.00 1465.00  31 50 28 66 32 57 50 58 26 61 42 85 81 100 50 75 70 88 40 73 43 67 73  12.00 8.62 9.00 9.00 20.07 74.32 22.91 14.64 14.91 15.94 8.50 13.75 41.11 38.72 8.33 11.11 66.25 27.33 11.16 6.27 17.40 12.12  2 4 11 6 111T~6 100.00 30.66 615.00 4823.00 38743.00  15.00  50.00  5.00  10.66  25156.66  160.00 69.00 138.00 867.00 6911.00 52561.00 275.00 205.00 373.00 927.00 51.00 165.00 370.00 426.00 55.00 100.00 795.00 420.00 67.00 69.00 348.00 376.00 26621.00  91.00— 729.00+ 45650.00+ 70.00— 554.00+ 114.00+ 56.00+ 45.00+ 375.00— 2.00+ 28.00+  
'47 .State Total  „  762  491  18232.00  64  18  64574.00  82806.00  
MINNESOTA  
Brainerd ._DuluthMinnea}x>lisNew UlmRochester ._St Cloud  .  .  1  15  61 2  10 2  1 1 4 5 23 35  50.00 50.00 33.00 45.00 227.00 318.00 30.0047.0015.0015.00 100 100 26 33 37 57  100  30  50  100  50.00 50.00 8.25 9.00 9.86 9.08 15.00 15.66 15.00 7.50  111  100.00  100.00  100.00  50.00 50.00 33.00 45.00 227.00 318.00 100.00 130.00 100.00 47.00 15.00 15.00  12. L00+ 91 .00+ 30 .00+ 53. 00—  
First line of city reflects 1946; second, 1947.  

NOTE: In some instances total alumni membership includes or excludes old students. Local committees can make adjustments. 
ALUMNI FRIENDS 
% -J-OR­
NTJMBER OF AVERAGE NUMBER COMBINED OVER 
SI'.Vl'E & UllY ALUMNI GIVERS .AMOUNT NO. GIFT GIVERS AMOUNT TOTAL Utf 
St. Paul  —  44  
2  
Non-Ch. Cities  54  
'47 Stole Total  191  
MISSISSIPPI  
Jackson  6  
Vicksburg  4  
Non-Ch. Cities  14  
'47 Stote Total  24  
MISSOURI  
4  
Kansas City (7)  93  
Springfield  4  
178  
St. Joseph  7  
Non-Ch. Cities  104  
'47 Stote Total  390  
MONTANA  
Butte  18  
Non-Ch. Cities  23  
'47 State Total  „... 41  
NEBRASKA  
3  
Columbus  1  
18  
Ponca  1  
Non-Ch. Cities  27  
'47 Stote Total  50  
NEVADA  
.  4  
Non-Ch. Cities  1  
'47 Stote Total  5  
NEW HAMPSHIRE  
Dover  4  
4  
Non-Ch. Cities  7  
'47 Stote Total  .  15  
NEW JERSEY  
Asbury Park  16  
24  
Elizabeth  57  
Jersey City  71  
191  

14 26 2 2 47 
123 
3 4 2 2 5 

11 
1 4 39 64 3 3 145 131 2 2 57 
261 
3 8 17 
25 
1 1 1 1 3 6 1 1 11 
20 
1 2 1 
3 

4 3 1 3 5 
11 
7 8 9 11 27 29 31 39 96 109 
2243.00 
101644.00 60.00 35.00 
509.00 
102693.00 
55.00 70.00 10.00 10.00 52.00 
132.00 
15.00 30.00 998.00 1724.00 20.00 40.00 3343.00 6727.00 15.00 15.00 762.00 
9298.00 
35.00 95.00 140.00 
235.00 
10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 20.00 65.00 10.00 10.00 118.00 
213.00 
30.00 123.00 25.00 
148.00 
27.00 
18.00 
2.00 62.00 40.00 
120.00 
62.00 80.00 80.00 95.00 397.00 556.00 275.00 372.00 1243.00 1279.00 
31 59 100 100 
.... 
64 
60 66 50 50 36 
46 
25 
100 41 69 75 75 81 73 29 29 55 
67 
16 44 74 
61 
33 33 100 100 16 33 100 100 41 
40 
25 50 100 
60 
100 75 25 75 71 
73 
44 50 38 46 47 51 44 55 50 57 

160.21 3980.00 30.00 17.50  -«• , 1, , •»• -•  ,,,, >»* ,.,,  2243.00 101644.00 60.00 35.00 509.00  99401.00-f­25.00—  
1  100.00  102793.00  
18.33 17.50 5.00 5.00  ..— —  ­ 55.00 70.00 10.00 10.00 52.00  15.00+  
132.00  
15.00 7.50 25.58 26.93 6.66 13.33 23.05 51.31 7.50 7.50  — 1 4 5 *.« -­ .... ~« -™ — 25.00 ....90.00 1585.00 *«-—  15.00 30.00 998.00 1724.00 45.00 > 40.00 3433.00 8312.00 15.00 15.00 762.00  15.00+ 726.00+ 5.00— 4879.00+  
5  1585.00  10883.00  
11.66 11.87  —« «— •"- ~.. —  35.00 95.00 140.00  .  60.00+  
235.00  
10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 6.66 10.83 10.00 10.00  •». •». »». ^ 2 2  »« ,, , »» 105.00 60.00 —  10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 125.00 125.00 10.00 10.00 118.00  
2  60.00  273.00  
30.00 61.50  .... ....  —  30.00 123.00 25.00  93.00+  
148.00  
6.75 6.00 2.00 20.66  3 ..« —  ­ 23.00 ".... ;..­....  50.00 18.00 2.00 62.00 40.00  32.00— 60.00+  
120.00 •  
8.85 10.00 8.89 8.64 14.70 19.17 8.87 9.54 12.94 11.73  2 6 12 . 21 1 29 5  15.00 -.— 37.00 -«­135.00 «*. 283.00 100.00 540.00 174.00  77.00 80.00 117.00 95.00 532.00 556.00 558.00 . 472.00 1783.00 1453.00  3.00+ 22.00— 24.00+ 86.00— 330.00—  

First line of city reflects 1946; second, 1947. NOTE: In some instonces total alumni membership includes or excludes old'students. Local committees can make adjustment*. 
ALUMNI nUENDS 
+ OR-­

NUMBER OF AVERAGE NUUBER COMBINED OVER STATE & crr v ALUMNI GIVERS AMOUNT NO. GIFT GIVERS AMOUNT TOTAL 1946 
Paterson 88 37 305.00 42 8.24 13 80.00 385.00 42 311.00 48 7.17 2 15.00 326.00 59.00— Perth Amboy 23 6 45.00 26 7.50 4 40.00 85.00 8 50.00 35 6.25 50.00 35.00— Trenton 20 12 93.00 60 7.75 "2 10.00 103.00 
12 85.00 60 7.09 .... 85.00 18.00— Non-Ch. Cities 9 3 981.00 34 327.25 100.00 1081.00 
'47 State Total .499 261 3809.00 52 389.00 4198.00 
NEW MEXICO 5 145.00 83 29.00 145.00 Albuquerque _ 6 6 28.00 100 4.66 28.00 
117.00— 

7 75.00 47 75.00 Non-Ch. Cities 15 
13 103.00 62 103.00 
'47 State Total 21 

NEW YORK 15 145.00 60 9.66 1.00 146.00 13 125.00 52 9.61 
125.00 21.00— 

Albany — 25 150.00 57 12.50 
12 
150.00 

16 127.00 76 7.93 
127.00 23.00— 

Auburn 21 
3 25.00 37 8.33 
25.00 

5 40.00 62 8.00 
40.00 15.00-f 

Batavia 8 61 
13 140.00 10.76 20.00 
160.00 

14 145.00 66 10.35 
145.00 15.00— 

Binghamton . 21 
73 758.00 48 10.38 21 130.00 888.00 126 1299.00 82 10.28 
Buffalo (c) :.!.. 152 25 2 405.00 1704.00 816.00-F 
2 15.00 7.50 2 30.00 
45.00 

4 32.00 50 8.00 
Coming 8 33 32.00 13.00— 
2 15.00 7.50 
15.00 30.00 
66 

4 25.00 6.25 
25.00 5.00— 

Elmira :.. 6 75 
9 108.00 12.00 
108.00 
50 

6 32.00 5.33 
Geneva 12 28 32.00 76.00— 
2 30.00 15.00 
30.00 
42 

3 70.00 23.33 
Malone 7 40 70.00 40.00-f 
486 38155.00 78.50 
262 110078.00 148233.00 
34 

418 35364.00 84.60 
42 9183.00 44547.00 
New York (c) 1214 66 103686.00— 
2 30.00 15.00 
30.00 
66 

2 15.00 7.50 
Ogdenburg 3 57 15.00 15.00— 
4 39.00 i.75 
39.00 
57 

4 40.00 10.00 
44 40.00 1.00-F 
Rochester (13) . 134 59 757.00 12.83 
5 88.00 845.00 
63 

85 957.00 11.25 
61 4 39.00 996.00 151.00-1­
Syracuse 47 29 343.00 11.82 
10 145.00 488.00 
72 

34 434.00 12.76 
61 434.00 54.00— 
Schenectady :. 26 16 142.00 61 8.87 "i 5.00 147.00 16 158.00 9.87 
42 158.00 11.00-F 
Troy 7 3 50.00 16.66 
42 1 5.00 55.00 
3 50.00 16.66 
71 50.00 5.00— 
Utica 14 10 141.00 14.10 
71 "2 7.00 148.00 
10 84.00 8.40 
51 84.00 64.00— 
Non-Ch. Cities 600 304 2545.00 "5 1138.00 3683.00 
'47 State Total 2312 1067 41542.00 46 
53 10765.00 52307.00 
NORTH CAROLINA Ashevillc 5.00 50 5.00 1 10.00 15.00 5.00 50 5.00 
5.00 10.00— 

Non-Ch. Cities 16 75.00 1 5.00 80.00 
'47 State Total 18 10 80.00 56 1 
5.00 85.00 

NORTH DAKOTA 1 10.00 10.00 
Mandan '. 2 2 20.00 100 10.00 
20.00 10.00-F 

. 2 1 15.00 50 15.00 
15.00 

Minot 2 15.00 100 7,50 T 100.60 115.00 100.00-F 18 10 73.00 56 73.00 Non-Ch. Cities 
. 22 14 108.00 64 1 100.00 208.00 
'47 State Total OHIO Akron (c) 74 27 381.00 36 14.11 3 20.00 401.00 52 771.00 70 14.82 2 35.00 806.00 
405.00-1­

Ashtabula . 8 4 35.00 50 8.75 35.00 4 26.00 50 6.50. 26.00 9.00— Cleveland (2) 279 130 4121.00 40 34.00 '21 425.'6d 4546.00 219 17840.00 73 81.72 
6 3111.00 20951.00 16405.00-H First line of city reflects 1946; second, 1947. '••i-NOTE: In some instances total alumni membership includes or excludes old students. Local committees can make adjustments. 
M' 

ALtJMNI FKIENDS 
% + <«­
NUMBER OF AVERAGE NiniBEK COMBINEO OVER STATE & crr y ALUMNI GIVERS AMOUNT NO. GIFT GIVERS AMOUNT TOTAL 19«i 
Columbus  50  
Elyria  U  
Hamilton  (c)  14  
Ixirain  10  
Marion  6  
Newark  6  
Portsmouth  7  
Sandusky (c)  32  
Springfield  15  
Tiffin  1  14  
Warren  .... 12  
Youngstown  37  
Zanesville  7  
Non-Ch. Cities  384  
'47  State Total  966  
OKLAHOMA  
Oklahoma  City  :  14  
Tulsa  48  
Non-Ch.  Cities  13  
'47 State Total  75  
OREGON  
Portland  (c)  53  
Non-Ch.  Cities  16  
'47  State Total  69  
PENNSYLVANIA  
AllentownAltoona  69  
Erie  (c)  37  
Harrisburg (17)  66  
Philadelphia  (16)  122  
Pittsburgh  116  
Monessen  ­ 2  
Scranton (c)  ..  . 78  
Non-Ch.  Cities  399  
'47 State Total  . —  835  
RHODE ISLAND  
Newport  8  
Pawtucket  8  
Providence  .  10  
Woonsocket  6  
NonrCh.  Cities  ..  11  
'47  State Total  43  

25 
38 4 6 3 
10 4 8 2 4 5 4 2 
3 15 22 6 9 5 8 6 6 15 31 3 4 231 
659 
4 7 15 32 13 
52 
17 20 7 
27 
3 4 3 5 25 33 40 46 81 77 60 77 
2 

2 29 24 
204 
472 
4 2 3 6 6 4 2 1 10 
23 
867.00 491.00 40.00 130.00 •30.00 120.00 45.00 85.00 25.00 27.00 33.00 18.00 35.00 50.00 322.00 384.00 90.00 85.00 240.00 281.00 40.00 70.00 495.00 447.00 25.00 30.00 16501.00 
37356.00 
140.00 310.00 101431.00 1282.00 175.00 
1767.00 
5350.00 1272.00 130.00 
1402.00 
40.00 65.00 70.00 45.00 335.00 246.00 338.00 462.00 1187.00 842.00 940.00 1398.00 20.00 15.00 230.00 237.00 2166.00 
5476.00 
98.00 55.00 40.00 60.00 60.00 50.00 15.00 
2.00 88.00 
255.00 
50 76 36 54 21 71 40 80 33 66 83 66 28 42 46 68 40 60 35 57 50 50 40 83 42 57 60 
67 
28 5a 31 66 100 
 69 
32 37 44 
 39 
50 66 33 55 67 89 61 70 66 63 51 66 100 
100 37 30 51 
57 
50 25 37 75 60 40 33 16 91 
53 
34.68 12.92 10.00 21.66 10.00 12.00 11.25 10.62 12.50 6.75 6.60 4.50 17.50 16.66 21.46 17.45 15.00 9.44 
48.00 
35.12 6.66 11.66 33.00 14.41 8.33 7.50 
35.00 
44.28 6762.00 
40.06 
314.70 63.60 
13.33 
16.25 
13.33 
9.00 
13.40 
7.46 
8.45 
9.94 
14.65 
10.93 
15.66 
18.15 
10.00 
7.50 
7.93 
9.87 
24.50 27.50 13.33 10.00 10.00 12.50 7.50 2.00 

25.00 20.00 5.00  
10.00 7000.00  
2  15.00  
"i15  405.00  10556.00  
111  100.00  100.00  100.00  
100.00  
10.66 50.00 60.00  
15.00  
3 1 13 6 4 2  20.66 45.66 10.00 182.00 285.00 135.00 60.00  
11 1 5 15  376.00 100.00 46.00 501.00  
10.00  
342.00 5.00 10.00  
5.00  

867.00 491.00 40.00 
130.00 30.00 
120.00 
45.00 
85.00 25.00 27.00 33.00 18.00 60.00 50.00 342.00 389.00 90.00 85.00 250.00 7281.00 40.00 70.00 510.00 447.00 25.00 30.00 16906.00 
47912.00 
240.00 410.00 
101531.00 - 1282.00 175.00 
1867.00 
5350.00 1282.00 180.00 
1462.00 
55.00 65.00 70.00 45.00 355.00 246.00 383.00 472.00 1369.00 1127.00 1075.00 1458.00 20.00 15.00 606.00 337.00 
2212.00 
5977.00 
108.00 55.00 40.00 60.00 
402.00 55.00 25.00 
2.00 
88.00 
260.00 
376.0ft— 
90.00+ 90.00+ 
40.00-j­
2.00+ 15.0ft— 10.00— 47.00+ 5.00-­7031.00+ 30.00+ 63.00— 5.00+ 
170.00+ 100249.00— 
4068.00— 
10.00+ 25.00— 109.00^ 
89.00+ 242.00— 383.00+ 
5.0O— 269.00— 
53.00— 20.00+ 347.00— 23.00— 

First line of city reflects 1946; second, 1947. _ NOTE: In some instances total alumni membership includes or excludes old students. Local committees can make'adjustments. 
ALUMNI  FRIENDS  
STATE & CITY  NUMBER ALUMNI GIVERS  AMOUNT  % OF NO.  AVERAGE GIFT  NUMBER GIVERS  AMOUNT  COMBINED TOTAL  + OR — OVER 1946  
SOUTH CAROLINA Spartanburg • Non-Ch. Cities ._  10  15.00 15.00 35.00  100 100 30  7.50 7.50  15.00 15.00 35.00  
'47 State Total  10  50.00  50  50.00  
SOUTH DAKOTA AberdeenSioux Falls „Non-Ch. Cities  2 8  16  1 1 3 4 12  10.00 10.00 20.00 70.00 131.00  50 50 38 50 75  10.00 10.00 6.66 17.50  10.00 10.00 20.00 70.00 131.00  50.00-f  
'47 State Total  26  17  211.00  65  211.00  
TENNESSEE  
ChattanoogaMemphb (c)Nashville (c)Non-Ch. Cities  ...  5  44  12  18  3 17 29 4 11 10  37.00 221.00 878.00 45.00 177.00 168.00  60 38 65 33 91 55  12.33 13.00 30.27 11.25 16.09  37.00 221.00 878.00 45.00 177.00 168.00  37.00-f 657.00-f 132.00-{­ 
'47 State Total  79  53  1260.00  69  1260.00  
TEXAS Beaumont Dallas (c) . Fort Worth Houston (5)Port ArthurSan AntonioNon-Ch. Cities 10 60 7  41 5  48  52  5 7 18 43 4 6 19 30 1 4 4 7 30  120.00 915.00 464.00 664.00 45.00 90.00 278.00 508.00 20.00 80.00 40.00 37.00 419.00  50 70 30 71 5-7 85 46 73 20 80 8 14 59  24.00 130.71 25.77 15.44 11.25 15.00 14.63 16.93 20.00 20.00 10.00 5.28  1~18"T11  5.00  10900.66  8070.00  100.00  10.00  3.00  125.00 915.00 11364.00 8734.00 45.00 190.00 288.00 511.00 20.00 80.00 40.00 37.00 419.00  790.00+ 2630.00— 145.00-i­223.00-f 60.00-1­3.00—  n  
'47  State Total  223  127  2713.00  57  10  8173.00  10886.00  
UTAH Salt Lake Cit>' Non-Ch. Cities  30.00 131.00 15.00  50 83 67  10.00 26.20  30.00 131.00 15.00  101.00+  
'47  State Total  9  7  146.00  78  146.00  
VERMONT BurlingtonRutlandNon-Ch. Cities  6 9  13  6 3 5 6 11  80.00 55.00 75.00 85.00 161.00  100 50 55 66 84  13.33 18.33 15.00 14.16  15.00  80.00 55.00 90.00 85.00 161.00  25.00—5.00— .'.• ^  '-• ;  
'47 State Total  28  20  301.00  72  301.00  
VIRGINIA LynchburgNorfolk — Richmond Non-Ch. Cities  4 7 14 56  4 4 5 7 7 9 32  55.00 25.00 32.00 52.00 40.00 46.00 333.00  100 100 71 100 50 64 57  13.75 6.25 6.40 14.28 5.71 5.11  35.00  55.00 25.00 67.00 52.00 40.00 46.00 333.00  30.00—15.00— 6.00+  :  i  
'47  State  Total  _  113  52  456.00  46  456.00  ;  
WASHINGTON Seattle Tacoma Non-Ch. Cities  .... 29 _.. 6 .... 26  13 13 1 5 24  417.00 286.00 5.00 1160.00 1595.00  44 44 17 83 92  32.07 22.00 5.00 232.00  5010.00 5.00  417.00 5296.00 5.00 1160.00 1600.00  4879.00+1155.00+  .  
'47  State Total  .„.  61  42  3041.00  69  5015.00  8056.00  
First line of city reflects 1946; second, 1947.  

NOTE: In some instances total alumni membership includes or excludes old students. Local committees can make adjustments. 
ALUMNI FRIENDS 
9!­ -I-o»­ 
NVMBEK  OF  AVERAGE  NUMBIUI  COMBINED  OVER  
STA'lE Sfc CU'Y  ALUMNI GIVERS  AMOUNT  NO.  GIFT  GIVERS  AMOUNT  1  TOTAL  1946  
WEST VIRGINIA  
Charleston  (c)  25  15  325.00  60  21.66  1  15.00  340.00  
19  624.00  76  32.84  1  2000.00  2624.00  2284.00+  
18  9  78.00  50  8.66  2  110.00  188.00  
18  192.00  100  10.60  192.00  4.00-h  
Non-Ch.  Cities  50  44  411.00  88  1  2.00  413.00  
'47  State Total  93  81  1227.00  87  2  2002.00  3229.00  
WISCONSIN  V  
LaCrosse  .....  23  12  2320.00  55  193.33  2320.00  -•  •  
18  1299.00  82  72.16  „ _  1299.00  1021.00-­ 
Madison  21  4  50.00  19  12.50  •  50.00  
16  124.00  76  7.75  124.00  ­ 74.00-1­ 
6  2  50.00  33  25.00  50.00  
4  110.00­ 66  27.50  110.00  60.00-t- 
Milwaukee (11)  193  82 122  12262.00 6711.00  42 63  149.53 55.00  8 4  34154.00 5800.00  46416.00 12511.00  3390.5.00—  
22  8  1736.00  36  217.00  2  4334.00  6070.00  
12  4079.00  54  33.99  3  7667.00  11746.00  5676.00-}­ 
Non-Ch. Cities  140  82  867.00  58  3  25.00  892.00  
'47 State Total  405  254  13190.00  63  10  13492.00  26682.00  
WYOMING  
4  2  15.00  50  7.50  •  • 15.00  
3  20.00  75  6.66  20.00  5.00 t­ 
Non-Ch. Cities  9  4  90.00  44  90.00  
'47 State Total  13  7  110.00  54  110.00  
TOTAL 203 CITIES 1947  9633  5846  301037.00  60  51.48  256  153601.00  454638.00  
TOTAL NON-CH. CITIES  3539  2041  44976.00  58  22.04  47  52189.00  97165.00  
TOTAL 1947  11000  7887  346013.00  72  43.87  303  205790.00  551803.00  

First line of city reflects 1946; second, 1947. NOTE: In some instances total alumni membership includes or excludes old students. Local committees can make adjustments. 
(c)
 Club City of. (1) Brockton includes Foxboro, Mansfield, waukee, excluding Madison and Racine. (12) Northampton includes So. Weymouth, and Avon, Mass. (2) Cleveland, excluding Ashtabula Turner Falls. (13) Rochester, N. R., excluding Batavia, Coming, and and Elyria. (3) Detroit, excluding Port Huron. (4) Grand Rapids, Elmira. (14) Springfield, Mass. includes Hampton, Monson, North excluding Muskegon. (5) Houston, excluding Beaumont and Port Ar­Wilbraham, Palmer, W. Springfield, Ware, Westfield, and W. Somer­thur. (6) Indianapolis, including Anderson and Kokomo. (7) Kansas ville, Mass. (15) Worcester includes Southbridge, Spencer, W. Stock-

City, excluding Leavenworth and Topeka, Kan., and St. Joseph, Mo. bridge, -Westboro, and Wooster. (16) Philadelphia, excluding Cam­

(8)
 Lowell includes Ayer, Lexington, Littleton, and Shirley. (9) Lynn den and Haddonfield, N. J. (17) Harrisburg, excluding -Altoona. includes Beverly Falls, Peabody, Salem, Swampscott, and East Lynn. 


New Jersey cities — per list furnished by Ray Geiger. 
(10) Melrose includes Stoneham, Winchester, and Wobum. (11) Mil­
"In terms of the forty-billion-dollar Federal budget they are discussing here, the $900,000 towards our three-million-dollar goal looks insignificant. But I believe that few of those billions are going to have as profound an effect for good on this na­tion as these millions that are being given voluntarily to independent educational institutions such as Washington and Lee, which happens to be my alma mater. 
"These independent universities are fighting today to maintain their freedom from governmental subsidy, because they know their academic liberty depends on it. Their struggle should prompt immediate assistance from American business men, both as corporations and as individuals wt h a stake in'free enterprise. 
"Business and industry need now, and are going to need more in the futitfe, collie graduates trained in a tradition of independence of Government subsidy and Government dictation." 
JOHN W. DAVIS, Washington & Lee, '92 

Recapitulation and Supplement to the Master Table 
The Master Table for 1947 reflects the following: The Master Table reflects some interesting observations. ALUMNI GIFTS OF 203 CITIES §301,037.00 For instance: FRIENDS GIFTS OF 203 CITIES 153,601.00 
70-100% Chairman Cities for 1947 
TOTAL 

-1454,638.00 26. Cities have achieved 100% membership contribution. Also there were 55 cities that have 70% or more of their mem­ALUMNI—NON-CHAIRMAN CITIES bers contributing to the 1947 Fund. The combined alumni AND RURAL 44,976.00 membership of the 81 cities is 2689, or 24%, of the national 
lay alumni membership. 

FRIENDS—NON-CHAIRMAN CITIES AND RURAL 52,189.00 Comparison of Alumni and Totals for 1947 97165.00 In the Master Table for 1947, Altmini contributions in 128 
TOTAL 

cities, or-63%, showed an increase; 61 cities, or 30%, a decrease; while in 14 cities, or 7%, there was no change for 1947. 
TOTAL—ALUMNI 346,013.00 TOTAL—FRIENDS 205,790.00 For the combined total, both alunmi and friends, there were increases in 109 cities, or 54%; decreases in 83 cities, or 40%; TOTAL—ALUMNI AND FRIENDS-_|551,803.00 and 11 cities, or 6%, with no changes for 1947. 
1947—$500 Chairman Cities 
Cily  Number Alumni  % of Partid­pation  Number Friends Gills  Alumni and Friends Gifts  City  Number Afumnx  % of Parlici­pation  Number Friends Gifts  Alumni and Friends Gifts  
a Akron * Beaumont * Benton Harbor Boise  ____  74  10  42 7  70 70 66 42  $806.00 915.00 867.00 510.00  Memphis Milford . ax* MILWAUKEE  __  44 9 193  65 88 63  878.00 554.00 12,511.00  
aa *ax*  BUFFALO  Charleston  CHICAGO CLEVELAND  _ 152 _ 25 -1378 279  82 76 67 73  2 1 64 6  1,704.00 2,624.00 46,747.00 20,951.00  ax' a ^  NEWARK, N. J.New OrleansNEW YORK Notre Dame _ Peoria   191  33 -1214 - 61 _ 62  57 60 34 81 100  5 2 42 2 2  1,453.00 1,746.00 44,547.00 15,472.00 3,682.00  
Dallas  60  71  8  8,734.00  PHILADELPHIA  _ 122  63  6  1,127.00  
Denver Des Moines ax' DETROIT Elizabeth _ a * Elkhart __ a * Evansville Ft. Lauderdale  74 27 322 57 22 28 6  63 70 57 51 63 89 100  1 1 2 1 1  625.00 1,221.00 52,561.00 556.00 1,180.00 682.00 1,095.00  a * PITTSBURGHPortland Racine ROCHESTER,Rockford ax' ST. LOUIS ax St. Paul   N.   116 53 22 Y. 134 23 . 178 - 44  66 37 54 63 56 73 59  2 1 3 4 3  1,458.00 1,282.00 11,746.00 996.00 11,165.00 8,312.00 101,644.00  
ax' a  FT. WAYNE Grand Rapids Houston  107 90 41  87 61 73  12 1 1  5,436.00 927.00 511.00  SAN FRANCISCO-Seattle  _.  108  29  52 44  3 2  1,802.00 5,296.00  
INDIANAPOLIS Jacksonville Kansas City * LOS ANGELES 285 11 93  450  68 72 69 34  2 1  3,822.00 590.00 1,724.00 25,716.00  ax* SOUTH BEND Spring^eld, Mass. Tacoma TiflSn Tulsa  .__-.  734  36 6  14  48  82 44 83 57 66  19 1  29,226.00 825.00 1,160.00 7,281.00 1,282.00  
a  * Louisville  91  76  1,793.00  *  WASHINGTON  .  158  56  4,727.00  
48 Cities—TOTALS  -7363  61  236  452.469.00  

78% of the Friends live in the "48" cities, while 60% live in 11 of the above cities. 
Cities in caps—^100 or more alumni membership 
a—Cities within 400-mile radius from the campus 
x—Cities giving one per cent or more within 400-mile radius from the campus 
*—Cities within the Table Classification that have functioning committees. 
A number of conclusions can be reached by analyzing the radius from the campus. The remaining 16.4% came from above table. The following cities contributed 1% or more to cities that are quickly reached. the University of Notre Dame Foundation in 1947: Chicago, 
10 of the 17 cities in caps, whose alumni membership Is 100 8.5%; Cleveland, 3.8%; Dallas, 1.6%; Detroit, 9.5%; Ft. Wayne, or more, represent 34% of our alumni membership, and are 1%; Los Angeles, 4.7%; Milwaukee, 2.3%; New York, 8.1%; 
within the 400-mile radius. 

Notre Dame, 2.8%; Racine, 2.1%; Rockford,.2%; St. Louis, 67% of our alumni membership resides in the "48" chairman 1.5%; St. Paul, 18.4%; Seattle, 1%; South Bend, 5.3%; Tiffin, cities contributing $500 or more in 1947. The "48" contributed 1.3%; and Washington, 1%—for a total of 74-9% from these 82%of the amount received in 1947. Almost one-half of these IT cities. 
cities are within the 400-n)iIe radius from the campus (22 to be By way of further analysis, 58% % of the amount of 1947 exact). 33 of these cities already have their committees formed gifts came from 12 of these cities, that are within the 400-mile and functioning. 
Classified Table of '46 and '47 Gifts to the Foundation 
The table below indicates that the number of alumni givers In the table reflecting gifts from friends, those gifts of in 1947 increased 2002 in mmiber, and $69,024 in amount, over 
§1,000 and over increased in number from 42 in 1946 to 58 
1946. In 1946 one Alumnus contributed $100,000 and in 1947 
in 1947—an increase of 16. 
another gave $101,000. It appears in the last five classes, be­ginning with "$100" and ending with "$1,000 and over," that there were 215 in 1947, for a total of $266,128, and 183 in 1946 The total contributions from both Alumni and "Friends" for $213,014, or an increase of 32 in number and $53,114 in for 1947 was $551,803, including the "under $25.00" itons in amount in 1947 over 1946. 
the table of Gifts from Friends. 
1946-1947 TABLES—ALUMNI AND FRIENDS 
Classification of Gifts 

ALUMNI FRIENDS 
1H7 1946 + or — 1947 1946 + or — Class No. Amt. No. Amt. No. Amt. Class No. Amt. No. Amt. No. Amt. 
$5 3882 $17,390 2547 $11,915 1335+ $o,475-t-$25 39 $1,010 94 $2,410 55— $1,400^ 10 2255 22,550 1840 18,900 415+ 3,650+ 50 14 725 46 2,476 32— 1,751­20 633 11,120 520 9,050 113+ 2,070+ 100 52 5,535 52 5,428 107+ 25 666 16,875 654 16,635 12+ 240+ 200 21 5,380 20 4,995 1+ 385+ 50 236 11,950 141 7,475 95+ 4,475+ 500 19 10,465 8 4,250 11+ 6,215+ 100 99 10,250 125 13,000 26— 2,750— 1000 26 26,000 22 22,000 4+ 4,000+ 200 70 15,150 29 6,800 41+ 8,350+ 2000 13 22,717 5 7,618 8+ 15.099+ 500 14 7,000 17 8,500 3— 1,500— 3000 9 25,867 7 25,316 2+ 551+ 1000 16 21,000 5 5,000 11+ 16,000+ 5000 5 25,000 3 15,523 2+ 9,475+ 1000 up 16 212,728 7 179,714 9+ 33,014+ 6000 up 5 82,791 5 164,594 81,803— 
TOTALS 7887 $346,013 5885 $276,989 2002+ $69,024+ 203 $205,490 262 $254,612 59— $49,122— 
Note: In the Friends' Table, gifts under $25 have been ex­In 1947, 6137 or 55.3% of the lay alumni contributed $10.00 cluded; 1946 includes one gift for $100,000, not repeated in 1947. or less. Significantly, this group represents 78% of the 7887 To condense, classes were merged in both tables. For instance, donors. The total number of alumni givers for 1947 represents in Friends, "$50" and "$75" were combined, and so on. 71% of the Lay alumni membership. 
A spot check of the g^oup contributing $5,00 and $10.00 Of those not contributing in 1947: reveals that: 
25% were graduates of 1940-1947 39% were graduates of 1940-1947 48% were graduates of 1930-1939 48% were graduates of 1930-1939 19% were graduates of 1920-1929 13% were graduates of 1929 and below 8% were graduates of 1920 and below 
The above table reflects, therefore, that 61% of the $5.00 Again, this reflects that 75% of the Non-contributors were and $10.00 class were graduated prior to 1940. graduated prior to 1940. 
Comparative Analysis — Alumni and Friends' Gifts 1941 — 1947 
ALUMNI FRIENDS Number Amount Number Amount 
1941"] 24 $ 22,868.00 1942 L_ -3462 $107,424.00 58 144,276.00 1943 J 126 70,010.00 1944 __ .3313 111,342.00 98 59,916.00 1945 _.. .3096 94.345.00 84 186,783.00 1946 __ .5885 276,989.00 262 254,612.00 1947 _ -7887 346,013.00 203 205,490.00 
Totals 23643 $936,113.00 855 $943,955.00 
Outlook for 1948 Contributions 
The Alumni Fund has grown consistently from year to year. *For the Centenary Fund of 1941-43, 3462 alumni contributed $107,424.13. In 1947 the number of alumni contributing doubled to 7887, and the amount more than trebled to $346,013.72. From the list of alumni being checked for correct addresses, and interested former students, the Alumni Fimd for 1948 should again take a big jump in the number of alumni participating, as well as in the amount contributed.' 
The potential in the field of "Friends" of the University is un­limited. In 1941, 24 friends contributed $22,868.00. In 1947, the number of friends and amount increased NINE times to 203 and $205,490.00 respectively. This makes an average of one friend per chairman city, which could easily be increased from FIVE to TWEN­TY-FIVE times. Already in 1948 we have ELEVEN new friends in Cheyenne, Wyoming, and SIX in Green Bay, Wisconsin. 
In addition to gifts to the Notre Dame Foimdation, the University of Notre Dame also acknowledges gifts for fellowships, industrial and government research, the Outdoor Advertising Foundation, and ma­chinery with a known valuation for 1947 of $559,000.00. Also, gifts have been received in the form of art and books to the Mediaeval Institute and the Library with a valuation of many thousands of dollars. ..tlt 
City and State totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
The following hst of givers in 1947 is submitted to express again the appreciation of the University of Notre Dame to its many loyal alumni and friends. 
UNIVERSnY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION 
'0 
# 

Alabama 
Binningham 
Raymond E. Faherty. John O. Grimes Peter P. Scolise 
Grove Hill 
Thomas H. O'Melia.. 
Oxford 
Chares G. Zegiob... 
University 
ilrjzona 
Flagstafi 
Edwin D. Babbitt... 
Globe 
Robert D. Kendall.. 
Phoenix 
Joseph E. Beinor . Stephen J. Bielli 
Albert Ficb, Jr 
E. J. Hilkert Wm. P. Mahoney... John G. O'MoIley, Jr.. Thomas E. O'Malley... Mathew E. Trudelle. 
Tempe 
Christian F. Risser.. 
Tucson 
Jesse H. Roth 
Theodore A. Witz... 
W^nslow 


Arkansas 
Camden 
Twomey M. Clifford. Hugo C. Rothert Matthew H. Rothert.. 
ConwGY 
Fort Smith 
Benjamin D. Johnston Burley C. Johnston, Jr. 
Tonesboro 
J. Maurice Fairhead. Robert E. Puryear... 
25.00 5.00 1.00 
10.00 
12.50 
10.00 
100.00 
,25.00 
5.00 10.00 5.00 25.00 3.00 100.00 
25.00 
. 5.00 10.00 
10.00 3.00 5.00 
50.00 5.00 50.00 25.00 5.00 10.00 
5.00 
25.00 iO.00 100.00 
5.00 
5.00 . 2.50 5.00 
20.00 5.00 

1947 Contributions 
Uttle Bock EI Cerrito Lo* Jlagalaa Patrick M. Varroveto. 15.00 Aristo Brizzalara, Jr.. 50.00 Charles F. Peok.:... 25.00 Romeo P. Allard.^.. 5.00 Thos. J. Walsh, Jr.,. 25.00 John P. Murphy 25.00 Charles T. Baxter... 29.80 Leo B. Ward 25.00 
' Fresno David J. Bernard 10.00. 
Wm. V. O'Brien.... 3.00 Lucien-C Wheeler.. 5.00 
J. George Porbeclc.. 10.00 Joseph J. Bernard... 5.00 Edward A. Wright.. 5.00 
100 00 Wm. R. Wrope 5.00 Robert F. Hurley 10.00 Michael L Blessing.. 5.00 Emery J. Pagliosotti. 15.00 Eugene C. Calhoun.. 10.00 Xos IGatoa Paragould Onofrio G. Cannavo. 10.00 Thomas R. Ashe 5.00 Alba H. Wrope 10.00 Glendale Cleve W. Carey.... 5.00 James D. Wrape 5.00 Francis H. Conaty.. 5.00 Monhaltoit Baadi 
Edward R. Hughes.. 15.00 

Terrenes B. Cbsgrove.. 25.00 
Martin Brill 5.00 Piggott Thomas J. Treacy... 10.00 Thomas P. Foye 5.00 
Fred P,. Parent 5.00 

Michael J. Cunningham 50.00 Wallace J. Curry... 5.00 
Kdrl G. Pfeiffer 25.00 
Martin B. Daly, Jr... 5.00 
Martinez 
Haniord 

Fred A. Deichmonn, II. 5.00 James B. Burke..t.. 10.00 
Emery J. Pagliosotti. 10.00 

Harry E. Denny 10.00 
California Eldred E. Young.... 10.00 
Martin P. D'Errico.. 2.00 
Hollywood Modesto 
Alameda W. A. Dioga 30.00 
Joseph P. Guodnola... 10.00 Henry I. Dockweiler. 15.00 
August F. Bossu, Jr.. 10.00 
Ralph G. Gladen... 25.00 

Robert C. Murphy.. 15.00 John E. Dockweiler. 25.00 
John J. O'Connell.. 5.00 Edward J. Engand.. 5.00 
Alhambra Mofietl 
5.00 Wm. F, Escher 10.00 James H. Ford, Jr... 1.00 Vernon E. Rickard.. 10.00 Edwin F. Feldman.. 5.00 Robert E. Lee, Jr.... 10.00 
200.00 Al. J. Welzenboch.. 50.00 George M. Frawley.. 5.00 Joseph T. Strong 25.00 Chester D. Freeze.. 10.00 Monhtoin ^e w 
2.00 Huntington Pork 

Earl V. Frost • 5.00 
Robert T. Madden.. 5.00 Carl H. Fricke 5.00 Charles S. Gass 10.00 
Altadena Wm. T. Hortfield.... 2.00 Rbllond J. Gaupel.. 10.00 
Nevoda City 

Eugene J. Heidel-Benjamin B. Salvaty, Jr.. 6.00 James J. Glynn 10.00 
Harold A. Berliner. 5.00 

10.00 lomea C Goggin 16,377.00 
Joseph F. Lanigan.. 5.00 

Inglewood John L. Harrigon 50.00 
Balboa Island Willord C. Fortier.. 100.00 
Mr. & Vba. John L. North Hollywood 5.00 Harrigon 2,500.00 
Francis W. Schulte.. 10.00 

Ben Alexander 10.00 Thomas H. Hearn... 25.00 
Edward C. Ashe.... 10.00 
LaCanoda 

BeU ' Francis B. Hughes.. 5.00 Vincent L. Gorrilla, Jr.. 20.00 Willord R. Vangen.. 1.00 Robert K. Kelley.... 3.00 Louis H. Hruby 10.00 George A. Haninger. 20.00 Dudley K. Smith 25.00 I. Graver Kelley 500.00 
Donald W. Morgan.. 5.00 

Eugene M. Kennedy.. 10.00 LaCrescenta Hollis E. King 5.00 
Berkeley 
George E. Thomas. 15.00 OoUond 
Warren G. Kramer.. 2.00 
5.00 Robert W . Huether.. 10.00 

Richard F. Swisher.. Bernard J. Abrott.... 10.00 
Morris K. leohy.... 15.00 
10.00 William F. Cronin... 5.00 
William P. liljestrom. 10.00 
Laguna Beach 
Paul J. Cushing...!. 25.00 

Phillip M. Luppi.... 1.00 
Beverly Hills Douglas A. Bongert.. 5.0O Robert L. McDonald. 1,000.00 
Ernest P. Maurin, Jr... 10.00 George C. Clark 3,000.00 Bartholomew P. McHugh 5.00 Edward P. Madigan.. 5.00 
James R. McCobe... 5.00 Edward J. Cunningham 10.00 Albert M. Swan 2.00 
Edwin A. McDonald. .10.00 William Cusack 10.00 Oceom Pork 
James L. McDonald.. 5.00 Nickolas P. Lukois.. 10.00 Lojolla William R. Ryan, Sr.. • 3.00 
Elian McKeon 500.00 
Edward W. Mehren.. 250.00 
5.00 Clyde L Mees 5.00 
Ernest K. Sheble 10.00 Thomas J. Murphy.. 5.00 Ontario 
* 

Robert L. Nickells... 10.00 William R. Sidenfoden..100.00 
Lancaster Burbank 

Joseph I. O'Neill, Jr.. 10.00 
Ronald J. Knapp 2.50 

William W. Corr.. 10.00 Hanford R. Orvis... 10.00 
Oxnord 

Wm. L. Roddatz.... 5.00 G. Lawrence Ott... iOM Francis R. Conning.. 10.00 
Lomita Pork 

Vector Perry 25.00 Burlingame -David F. Hickey 5.0O Robert E. Pohl, Jr... 5.00 
Pacific Grove 

David I. Powers - 4.00 
Lawrence A. O'Leary. 10.00 
Robert E. Proctor, Jr... 5.00 Chester B. Bramblott. 1.00 
Long Beach 

John J. Propeck 5.00 1. P. O'Bmrae 10.00 
Canoga Park 
Ray E. Bates 5.00 

Clare L. Randolph.. 1.00 
10.00 James P. Carroll 5.00 

Cor! J. Rausch 5.00 
Polos Verdas Estates 
Donneil V. Davis 10.00 

Leo J. Robidoux 5.00 
Carpenterio 10.00 Charles J. Kennedy.. 10.00 
Robert C. Ronstodt. 10.00 Frank X. O'Neil, Jr.. 10.00 
Douglas J. Giorgio.. 5.00 

J. Lee Ryan 5.00 
2.00 
Pasadena 

Cor! L Sabo • 2.00 
John W. Hopkins... 5.00 

Alfonso A. Scott.... 25.00 Paul F. Berger 25.00 
John C. Lungren 15.00 

Ralph R. Pinelli 5.00 Michael F. Shannon, Jr. 10.00 John L. Hogon ., 10.00 
J. Hale McKillip.... 5.00 

Oscar L. Sidenfoden 5.00 L W . Kennedy 5.00 
Emmet J. Madden... 25.00 

Coronodo Andrew H. McCbnnell 10.00 
John K. Skeehan... 5.00 
Emmet P. Mulholland.. .10.00 
Robert C Wright.... 5.00 !

Francis P. Mulcohy.. 35.00 5.00 Charles P Skon-' Edmond W. Sheeron.. 7.50 ros 500.00 Corona George A. Strong... 5.00 Joseph M. Suttner... 5.00 Pico 
5.00 John F. Tormey 10.00 John A. Torribio 5.00 
m 
Regular Face Type— Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be foun( in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
Meriden 

Bivero San Luis Obispo Connecficuf 

Colorado 
Wm. J. Carroll 10.00 

George T. Wilson.. 5.00 L. Vincent Gorrilla.. 20.00 Alamosa Bridgeport David W. Sprafke.. 5.00 
Boscoe San Marino Paul J. Murphy 10.00 Notre Dame Club.. 100.00 John T. Corcoran, Jr. 5.00 Middletown 
Noble F. Horbaugh.. 5.00 Louis F. Amestoy 10.00 
Ault John T. Cullinon... 25.00 James G. Murphy... 10.00 
Louis M. Purcell 10.00 
Arthur L. Andersen, Jr. 15.00 Wm. F. Duffy 10.00 
Bosemead Phil J. Purcell 250.00 
John J. Galla 10.00 MUord 
75.00 Wm. B. Shanley 20.00 
William J. Cook.... Colorado Springs Robert K. Griffin 5.00 
Anthony A. Benedosso. 25.00 Williom J. Donelan, Jr. 10.00 Joseph W. Knott... 5.00 
Son Mateo 5.00 
Roseville 

Francis S. McGee... 10.00 
Noel F. Wilkins.... 25.00 

Bert V. Dunne 10.00 Denver 
:awrence J. O'Connor.. 15.00 las. L. McGovem 10.00 Michael M. F. Kiely. 1.00 
John P. Akolt 2.00 John G. Molloy 5.00 Mark G. Kreufzer... 5.00 
Mt. Cannel 

Sacramento Leon W. Archer.... 5.00 John H. Monoghon. 10.00 W. Breen McDonald. 5.00 10.00 
Eugene S. Blish 10.00 John M. Murphy... 10.00 Francis W. Brown... 5.00 John C. Redgate 10.00 
C. Blalte Gordon... 10.00 
Scmta Ana Naugatuck Vail By .
Charles F. Cossidy.. 25.00 Francis J. Rooney... 5.00 St. Mary's Mrs. Helen A. Franklin L. Conway. 5.00 Francis A. Smith, Jr.. 3.00 Notre Dame Club... 100.00 Higgins 100.00 Alexis E. Coquillard, Jr. 15.00 Bicbard Solomon-5.00 
Richard R. Baker.... 5.00 
Robert C. Maddock. 5.00 John B. Coyne 10.00 Alphonse J. Stanczyk 2.00 New Britain Robert B. Webb.... 5.00 Joseph A. Craven... 25.00 VBehael A. Sterboek 25.00 Matthew Meskill.... 10.00 
Salinas 

Thomas G. Currigon. 5.00 William F. Tobin... 5.00 Robert E. Iliff • 20.00 
Santa Barbara Rev. Wm. D. Curtis. 2.00 
New Canaan 

Carl B. Nedom _ 100.00 
Maurice C. McDermott 10.00 Robert A. Dick...... 25.00 Bristol Thomas P. Cody 20.00 
Lloyd R. Stolich.... 15.00 
Woller E. Porent 10.00 Wm. J. Dick 10.00 
Joseph H. Robinson. 5.00 Clement F. Powers.. 5.00 
James V. Doucet 10.00 
New Haven 
San Bernardino 
Wm. S. Ehnie 3.00 

Danbury 5.00 
Arthur O. Aragon,. 2.00 Robert J. Flynn 5.00 
Santa Maria 

Edward J. Crotty... 10.00 Joseph C. Clifford.. 5.00 
Terrance R. O'Mal-Rev. Leo C. Gainor. 5.00 
John A. Murray 10.00 
Robert J. Doran 30.00 John J. Contway 5.00 
ley 7.00 Arthur C. Gregory.. 10.00 Joseph E. Kennedy.. 5.00 
Leo E. Renner 10.00 Fred W. Gushurst... 50.00 
Santa Monica Donielson Thomas J. Magee... 5.00 

J. E. Spain 100.00 Jas. F. Hanlon 10.00 
John H. HuntzickSr.. 8.00 John J. O'Neill.... 5.00 
Rose A. Heneoult... 5.00 Allen R. Travis 3.00 Wm. L. Piedmont... 10.00 
Charles A. Haskell. 25.00 

San Carlos John G. Hemming, Jr... 3.50 
R. F. Piontek 5.00 Michoel P. McDer-
Orville L. Hough... 5.00 Dorien Sherman Oaks Thomas R. Rourke.. 5.00 
Edward I. Hughes. Jr. 5.00 Raymond A. McGee. 25.00 Frank E. Cane 15.00 James C. Tonsey 5.00 
mott 10.00 
John H. Humphreys. 5.00 Bernard F. Smith 5.00 
John A. Warner, Jr.. 50.00 
Roymond M. Humphreys 5.00 
Son Diego 

South Pasadena Eugene f. Yoklavieh. 10.00 
R. N. Jacbon 25.00 Derby 
10.00 

7.50 
Marcus P. Kerin 3.00 
5.00 

John H. Cowley 15.00 
F. Richard Witte 3.00 James P. Logan 25.00 • Norwalk 
J. Philip Clark 10.00 
John W. McCorty... 15.00 John A. Devine 
10.00 East Norwalk 10.00 Stockton Joseph L. McCorty. 15.00 Robert B. Devine... 10.00 
Donald G. Manning. 
10.00 Eugene J. Devine, Jr. 10.00 
John J. McEniry.... 5.00 

10.00 Norwich 
Anthony M. Mitchell. 3.00 James A. McElroy.. 5.00 
Robert P. Sullivan... Charles R. MocForlone 3.00 
TO.OO 
Rt. Rev. Msgr. Francis Francis Y. Aubrey... 5.00 
Daniel G. Monaghan, Jr. 5.00 

Ott 10.00 James J. Dutton, Jr.. 50.00 
FaxBeld
Temple City John R. Moron 25.00 
5.00 

Francis J. Kowolski. 2.00 
B. W. O'Horo 12.50 

W. Albert Stewort, Jr. 5.00 George R. Meeker.. 10.00 Ookville 
Donald L. McGloon. 5.00 Bernard A. Swonser. 25.00  M. 5.00 
Alfred M. O'Mearo, Jr. 150.00 

Charles Ryan Eugene P. O'Mearo. 15.00 James E. Murphy... 25.00 5.00 
Totrence Edward F. Owens... 5.00 
Joseph R. Wagner.. 10.00 William C. McGowan 10.00 
Gerald MacDonald.. 5.00 
Rene Rodriguez 10.00 Famington 
San Fernando Plainville 
John b. Ryan 2.50 Wallace A. MacDonald. 5.00 
Trona 

Jos. G. Powers 5.00 Wm. D. Samuels... 3.50 Robert E. Morrill... 10.00 
2.00 Glasionbtiry 
Thomas M. Tierney. 2.50 Son Francisco John V. Walsh 5.00 John A. Colloghan.. 5.00 Prospect 

10.00 Twentynine Palms Elmer B. Wynne.... 20.00 Edward A. Pratt 5.00 D. Frank Murnane, Jr.. . 5.00 
Joseph E. Casey 10.00 Robert W. VonLohr. 20.00 
&igIewood Greenwich 
Eustace Cullinan, Sr.. 5.00 Biverside Francis J. Deloney.. 5.00 Upland Robert B. Lee...... 10.00 Edward T. Chute... 5.00 Horold J. lomm 25.00 
Philip P. DeGiorgio. 25.00 
5.00 
Homden 
' Las Animas 

15.00 BockyHiU 
Robert H. Holpin... 
Keene P. Fitzpatrick. 25.00 VanNuys Frederick E. Sisk... 5.00 *•'*' Francis W. Delligan. 10.00 10.00 
Patrick R. O'Shea.. 5.00 Hortford 
Loveland 
25.00 

Robert F. Wiele 5.00 
Notre Dome Club... 200.00 ,, , S°'»«« 
Eugene T. Goeller., 5.00 Edward J. Nugent.. 1.00 
jQQ Edward J. Glynn... 250.00 

Francis D. Ahem Walnut Creek 
Maurice J. Kennedy. 5.00 
Pine rhos. B. Cvrry 25.00 
Joseph L Kuharich.. 10.00 Joseph J. Ludwig 5.00 Thomas D. Bond 5.00 Charles R. Lugton.. 2.00 James B. Dully 5.00 South Norwalk 
25.00 Thos. E. Ferguson.. 5.00 Russell N. King 10.00 
Edward W . McLoone. 5.00 Wasc o Pueblo Jos. F. Flaherty 5.00 Richord E. Meade... 10.00 John M. McMvl]an.. 15.00 John J. Mannion 10.00 Donald A. Foskett.. 
'°°0 Stamford Robert M. Millett... 25.00 A. R. Thomas 25.00 Arthur J. Humby 1.00 
cng John N. Bordo 10.00 

Wm. A. Bopp 10.00 West Los Angeles John R. Voss 10.00 Fred W. Koetter.... JIJIQ Walter J. Cyr 5.00 
James E. Wade 10.00 George W. Alls 25.00 G. Albert Lowton... 
j'gjj Edword J. Gannon.. 10.00 

John R. Wollace.... 70.00 Bocky Ford John E. Lynch, Jr... 
H. Rex Ellis 5.00 
Joseph M. Dunn 10.00 Maurice F. Mulville. 10 00 ^^'"•9* A- Goepfrich 10.00 
John L. Zucco, Jr... 5.00 Harold D. Guerin... 
5.00 25'QQ J. Wolter Kennedy.. 25.00 
Timothy J. Murphy, Jr.. 
10.00 
Salida 10 00 5'°"'*)' T. Mrus 5.00 
Wm. J. Reid Edmund J. Finn 10.00 Floyd F. Richards... 
San Gabriel Francis J. Meyer 10.00 
j'og John J. Peasenelli.. 5.00 

Paul H. Cederwall.. 1.00 
Vincent E. Turley... 10 00 '"*'"' *"• ^"^^'"^' 2-^ Roy J. Doshboch 10.00 Whittier 
Swink Redmond F. Toner.. 5.00 Richard W . Mullen. . 5.00 Vittorio G. Arcodi.. 5.00 
Manchester Robert E. Wilke.... 15.00 
James P. Abbott 1.00 

George E. Etwin 5.00 San Leondro 'Wilmington Trinidad David V. Hayes 20.00 Stepney Edward T. McCorthy. 10.00 William O. Word... 5.00 Joseph F. Nigra.... 15.00 Thos. C. Shea 5.00 Williom F. O'Brien, Jr... 5.00 
Regular Face Type—^Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totols will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
Slrotiard Coconut GioT* S^ Patanbiarg Jlige 
DM, Columbia 
Herbert J. Connelly. 3.00 Robert M. Reilly 5.00 Richord J. Dcch.... 10.00 Richard P. Lambert, Jr. John L. Kilbride.... 10.00 Robert A. Ponath... I.OO Robert H. lombert.. 
Anacostia 
Coral Gobies Walter C. lambwt, Jr.. Toirington 
Lawrence A. Moore. 10.00 
William L. Huntley.. 10.00 

Edward L. Eogan... 2.00 I. Irwin Probst 5.00 John P. lowler 5.00 AaUe a 
Thomas F. Eagan... 2.00 Lawrence E. Stahl... 25.00 William' F. Morrow. 15.00 Edward J. Mondeville 
Washington, D. C. 
Notre Dame Club... 603.00 
Joseph E. Jacob 5.00 

John W. Anderson, Jr. 10.00 
Edward J. longhi... 10.00 Foler WMlPdm Beach 
AufOfftt 

Andrew C. Auth 5.00 
David C. Bagley 10.00 Milton J. Foley 549.00 Ralph A. Mortensen. 2.00 Wm. B. Chowgo WoUinglord John A. Stock. 5.00 
John B. Berteling... 5.00 Carl F. Esser 
John F. Berteling 5.00 len F. Frett 
Julius R. Kristan 10.00 FL Lauderdale 
Harold V. Boisverf.. 5.00 Robert A. Erkins 25.00 Jerome N. Hurd.... Woterbur; John P. Braddock... 5.00 Frederick P. Gore... 20.00 George M. Ireland. 
Georgia 
Robert E. Brooks, Jr. 7.00 H. H. Gore 1,000.00 Robert J. Keanu.... 
William J. Andres.. 25.00 

Raymond M. Burch.. 5.00 Robert H. Gore, Jr.. 25.00 AUaaia Donald J. Keenon... 
Edward K. Burns 5.00 

Joseph F. Burns, Jr.. 10.00 Denis K. O'Mearo.. 25.00 Alfred R. Abroms... 50.00 Thomas P. O'Malley. 
C. Louis Del Gaizo. 10.00 

Arthur F. Carey 10.00 William J. Redden.. 10.00 J. B. OeWilde 10.00 John J. Riley Joseph P. Del Gaizo. 5.00 
Joseph C. Clark.... 20.00 John C. Sullivan 10.00 Clement L. McGowan 10.00 Clarence J. Ruddy.. 
William J. Cour.... 5.00 William H. Schroder, Jr. 5.00 John R. Thumm 
Norbert F. Henebry. 5.00 Froncis H. Hurley... 5.00 John I. McGuinness. 10.00 

Daniel Culhane 15.00 Gainesville Michael Wiedl 25.00 John P. Tressel 
J. Harvey Daly 15.00 Oscar J. Zoa 5.00 Carl W. Weber.... Luino L. DoPro 10.00 John P. Youngen... 
Jomes J. Scigliano.. 5.00 Harold H. Davitt.... 10.00 
John J. Sullivon 10.00 Philip A. Dormody.. 5.00 Angosia 
Hollywood 

Volenline B. Deole. 20.00 
Aloysius J. Redd.... 5.00 BeUeviB* 
Weathersiielct Frederick J. Stewart. 50.00 
Raymond E. Deely.. 10.00 
Patrick M. Redd.... 5.00 William P. Crotly, Jr. . 
Rev. Fred W . Clark. 5.00 

Poul R. Delay 5.00 
Al E. Fellner 

10.00 Jocksonville 
Norman E. Duke 10.00 
Cdlins Joseph A. Roesch... 
John H. Dunn 10.00 William N. Abood.. 25.00 
Rufus M. Wilkes.... 5.00 
West Hartford Charles Fahy 5.00 Harold F. Beal 25.00 
BeBwood 

Edward E. Fenlon... 15.00 George P. Coyle, Sr. 25.00 
3.00 Jesnp 
James P. Ferry 10.00 Robert W. Coyle.... 10.00 Frederick W. Weidner. Jas. A. Flynn 25.00 Lester Wm. Foley... 500.00 
J. Walter McFarlone 10.00 West Haven 
Thomas J. Flynn 10.00 Francis B. Kelley 5.00 Behridei* Robert E. Lee, Jr 5.00 Borne 
John W. Gibbons... 25.00 John F. Lanahon... 5.00 
Albert S. O'Sullivan. 
Austin F. Sullivan... 5.00 

Joseph R. Gorman.. 25.00 BobertRFouLIr. 5.00 Bernard S. Fahy.'... 10.00 
George L. Haithcock 5.00 F. J. Rohoim 5.00 
BansenvjUa 

West Point Charles F. Hancock, Jr.. 15.00 Charles M. Urruela. 10.00 
William M. Howkes. 125.00 John M. Ramey Jomes J. Hiniker 5.00 Lake AUred Idaho Berwyn Arthur P. F. Holton. 10.00 Boise Henry F. Poiman Richard J. Sconneil.. 5.00 
Francis P. Goodman, Jr.. 3.00 John J. James, Jr... 5.00 Thos. J. Jones, Jr... 500.00 Edward J. Nerod... James J. Moher, Jr.. 3.00 
Westpoit William C. Korl.... 25.00 Lakeland Jess B. Howley, Jr... 25.00 James F. Nerad.... George J. Kelly.... 25.00 Paul L. Kohout 5.00 Paul L. Roise 

Joseph E. Keefe.... 25.00 

Windsor Locks George C. Kenny... 200.00 Francis H. Neitzel.. 5.00 Otto Von Drasek... 
George M. Rudolph, Jr.. 5.00 John P. Johnson 15.00 
John C. Kirby 10.00 
Harry J. Kirk 10.00 Idaho Pedis 
Largo Blooningfon 
John P. Lehan 10.00 
Robert W. Bauchman 5.00 
Williom H. Klem, Jr. 5.00 John J. Conley J. Clifford Letcher.. 10.00 
James M. Brady.... 25.00 
Delaware Bernard E. Loshbough 25.00 Thomas M. Cunningham. 
Patrick J. Wilson 5.00 
V&and Thomas J. Moore.... 
Paul Mollon 25.00 
Miliord Charles L. Ziebarth. 10.00 
Morris L. Morrison.. Edwin F. Cunningham 10.00 Rev. Richard C. 
John W. Monley... 15.00 Cormi A. Belmont... 5.00 
Benedict F. Mornocha I.OO Victor G. Cicirelli... 5.00 Lewiston 
Frank J. McCarthy. 20.00 Joseph E. Fitzpotrick 10.00 5.00 O'Brien 
Francis E. Stenstrom. 
Newark Donald F. McGinley 25.00 C. Glynn Eraser 10.00 March F. Wells Thomas McGroth. Vincent C. Giblin... 100.00 
James J. Coleman.. 2.00  J. 30.00 Murphy Fenton J. Mee 5.00 Jerome P. Holland.. 10.00 10.00 Kae blaad 
Jos. H. Neltleton... Wm. F. Montavon.. 120.00 Fred A. Jones, Jr... 5.00 
Robert W. Collins.. 
New Castle 

Leo F. Mullin 100.00 Urban L. Kokenge.. 25.00 Payette 
Herbert M. Dollon.. 
Thomas E. Dillon... 10.00 

James P. O'Loughlin 10.00 Robert V. Morklond. 10.00 
Leo J. Palumbo 10.00 Norman B. Heckler.. Armando C. Pacheco 5.00 William H. McCormick. 10.00 
Kenneth R. Kempf... Newport David L. Reidy 10.00 Hugh J. McManigal. 20.00 
Edward Ar Bried 5.00 J. Harold Roddy.... 5.00 Jerome E. Ouellette. 5.00 
Benrbonnois 

John C. Russell 5.00 Walter D. Rowlands. 750.00 
Illinois 
William M. Glenn.. 5.00 
Arcade J. Plonte 

Robert J. Shea 10.00 Bernard J. Zimmerman 10.00 Albany 
Gerald E. Skofronck. 5.00 
Carl M. Schickler, Jr. 10.00 John K. Stewart 20.00 Bfiomi Springs Broadview 
Seaford 
H. Edward Wrape.. 10.00 

William J. Syring 5.00 Howard J. Korth, Jr.. 10.00 Alexis Albert J. DelZoppo. Walter Trohon 100.00 John B. Rogers...... 5.00 Wilmington Paul C. Tully 5.00 Orlando 
Cairo 

Louis G. Alaman... 5.00 Francis J. Vukovich. 10.00 Algonguin 
Roy B. Loughlin 2.00 
Russell J. O'Shea... 

Wm. D. Boiley 5.00 John N. Walsh 937.50 Lawrence C. Majewski 10.00 
E. Merlin Rolwing.. 

Arthur A. Baum 15.00 Joseph Wang 35.00 
Palm Beach 

Harry C. Burger 5.00 Wm. J. Welsh 10.00 AHon 
Jack R. Butler 25.00 

Thomas F. Degndn.. 10.00 Joseph G. Wetzel.. 100.00 James E. Cahill 5.00 Calumet CSiy Robert G. Kuerze... 5.00 
Donald K. Duffey... 5.00 William E. Wholen. 10.00 Joseph V. Goeken.. 25.00 Kermit A. Rousseve.. 
J. Fendall Froning.. 10.00 Tighe E. Woods.... 15.00 Herbert C. Hellrung. 25.00 John J. Wallace.... 
Pensacola 

Donald Bernard Kil-Albert F. Zahm 100.00 Herbert R. Hellrung. 25.00 lian 25.00 John L. Jehle 10.00 Canqms 
William J. Noonan. 50.00 

Creighton E. Miller. 3.00 Joseph B. Walters.. 
S t Augustine IJ^ Clyde A. Wolsh 
M. Horry Miller.... 25.00 Fred M. Zimmerman, Jr. William S. Murray.. 20.00 Florida Julian G. Atwater... 5.00 Charles F. Roley, Jr.. 5.00 Edward H. Fishwick. 3.00 
ATCoIci Cdnfoit 
Apalachicola 
John J. Verbanc 10.00 John W. Nodo 10.00 Edwin Joseph Cunninghom 10. Martin R. Heckard.. Charles A. Young... 20.00 Willoughby M.Marshall. 2.00 Louis J. Reilly 5.00 Thomas F. Monohan, Jr. 10.00 Max R. Sarff 
Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
Carbondale 

CorlinTille 

Stephen E. Cormody. 
Michael F. Seyfrit... 
Carlyle 

Robert T- Timmerman 
CtnroUton 
ChoQnpaigii 

Paul F. Hannogon.. 
John T. Keorns, Jr.. 
Thomos P. McMonus. 
Choteworth 

Stephen H. Herr 
Francis W . Kaiser.. 
Chicago 

J. Bruce Allen 
Edward C. Agncw.. 
Arthur F. Anderson. 
Elmer J. Angsman.. 
Thomas N. Armel William F. Armin... Joseph A. Bailey... John L. Baringer 
James J. Barrett, Jr.. 
J. Raymond Barrett.. George F. Borry Norman C. Barry Robert 1. BartI Robert j . Batchelor. Howard C. Beosiey. Fred Beclclenberg, Jr. John J. Beer John H. Begley Horry B. Behrmon... Williom I. Berlc.... Robert E. Bertony... 
Paul A. BiO'Gioni... Benedict F. Binlcowski George C. Btoho Nicholas J. Bohling, Jr. Orlondo A. Bonicelli Richard R. Borgess.. Edword J. Brennon.. Eugene F. Brennon. James E. Brennon... Thomos J. Brennon. Thomas V. Brennon, Jr 
A. John Brinkmon.. Paul J. Broderick... Frederic R. Brookmeyer Peter B. Brosnon William J. Browne.. Edward M. Bruce... Edwin J. Buckley Wolter J. Buettner.. Emmett F. Burke 
Martin T. Burns 
Bichurd O. Bums 
William J. Burns Herbert J. Burt Charles J. Butler Francis J. Butler, Jr.. 
D. Coyne Colloghon. Edmund D. CoIIohan John C. Coresio, Jr.. Robert E. Cormody.. Thomas M. Cormody 10.00 5.00 
5.00 5.00 
10.00 
10.00 
10.00 20.00 10.00 
25.00 25.00 
1.00 
915.57 10.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 50.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 
10.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 10.00 20.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 15.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 110.00 10.00 25.00 15.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 355.00 25.00 5.00 15.00 
150.00 15.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 9.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 

Albert Carroll 10.00 Charles H. Carroll.. 25.00 Thomas P. Carroll... 5.00 
C. E. Cortier, Jr 5.00 Daniel J. Cosey 5.00 
T. Donald Cossidy.. 2.00 John W . Covonough. 50.00 Joseph J. Cava­
naugh 2,500.00 
Jerome F. Cermok... 25.00 Joseph P. Chompley. 10.00 Louis E. Chowgo 8.00 
Chicago, So. Shore 

&So.BendB.B. 2.500.00 Lawrence D. Chouninard 5.00 
D. I. Chrissis 100.00 Benjamin P. Cioccio. 1.00 
J. Emmett Clair- 50.00 John F. Cooker, Jr.. 5.00 John J. Collins 5.00 Paul R. Conoghon.. 250.00 
Jos. A. ConertY— 200.00 
Martin J. Conley 10.00 Daniel R. Connell.. 10.00 Arthur L. Conrad 10.00 James M. Constantin 3.00 James F. Conway... 5.00 Harold J. Cooke.... 20.00 Thomos E. Cooke... 25.00 Maurice J. Cooney. 5.00 Strotte P. Coorlos... 10.00 Mr. & Mrs. Wm. 
J. Corbett 3,000.00 
Stephen C. Corboy.. 25.00 Wm. J. Corcoran... 15.00 
A. George Cos­

teUo 100.00 
John W. Costello... 20.00 Martin J. Costello.. 50.00 James E. Coston- 1,000.00 Thomas E. -Coughlon 10.00 
John J. Coyle 5.00 
Richard C. Creevy.. 10.00 Carl M. Cronin 10.00 James E. Cronin 10.00 James R. Cronin 10.00 Mark A. Cronin 5.00 Robert J. Cronin 5.00 
Harry D„ Thomas A., & AHred J. 

Crooks 300.00 
Edward F. Crowe 5.00 
Jerome J. Crowley.. 100.00 
Edword F. Cuddihy. 5.00 
Bernord W." Cullen, Jr.. 5.00 
Frank L. Cullinan... 100.00 
Alvin S. Culver . 10.00 
John M. Cunneo 10.00 
James V. Cunning­

hom, Sr 25.00 Daniel F. Curley 5.00 Michael P. Curron.. 5.00 Gregory P. Cushing. 5.00 Jerome J. Cushing.. 5.00 Stanley J. Czopalski. 10.00 John A. Czerwiec... 10.00 Maurice J. Dacy 25.00 William J. Dorcy... 5.00 
P. I. Dee 1,000.00 
Donald Defrees_ 100.00 
Edward K. Delano.. 15.00 Joseph P. Delia Moria 5.00 Robert W . DeMoss.. 10.00 John E. DeMots 5.00 Charles Y. Derby... 10.00 Louis A DeSmet 10.00 John D. Desmond... 5.00 Geo. A. Dever 5.00 Wm. P. Devine 300.00 Francis A. Dillmon.. 5.00 Terrence J. Dillon.. 70.00 William R. Dillon... 5.00 Wm. F. Dinnen 10.00 Anthony Distefono... 5.00 Jerome F. Dixon 10.00 
Joseph E. Doon Chorles J. Doerr, Jr.. Reynold J. Domenicali James V. Donoghue. John W. Donohue.. Patrick J. Donovan. Paul J. Donovon Thos. C. Donovan.. John W. Dorgon... Mortin C. Downey.. James P. Doyle James T. Doyle John T. Doyle Nicholas M. Doyle.. Owen P. Doyle Robert F. Dressel... Alvin V. Drymolski.. Robert Curron DuBois John R. Duffy Thomos E. Duffy 
John M. Duncan-
William G. Dunne.. Leo M. Durlocher... Raymond W. Durst.. 
G. Philip Dwyer Cosimir W. Dyniewicz Robert W. Eder Donald T. Edwords. Daniel J. Egon James V. Egon Carl F. Eigelsboch.. John J. Elder Edword J. Emmenegger Charles W. Ephgrove Bernard L. Epstien.. Francis R. Ernst James P. Foirboirn.. Joseph H. Farley William C. Fay Thomas P. Feely... Donald J. Figel Edw. L Figel 
Allen E. Rnk 
William S. Finucone Clifford L. Fisher.... 
James R. Fitz­patrick 
John P. Fitzpatrick.. 
Frank T. Fitzsimmons 
Thomos Flonnery 
Milton J. Flyke 
John E. Flynn-. 
Joseph F. Flynn John N. Fogel Edmond I. Foley Jos. T. Foley Mark A. Foote George J. Foss, Jr.. John J. Francis 
J. Arthur Friedlund David J. Froehlich.. Thaddeus A. Furmon Chester J. Gajewski. Henry J. Gojkowski. John C. Gollogher.. 
P. M. GoUagher-Michael J. Goney... Donald E. Gorrity.. Edmund C. Gorrity, Jr. Edwin A. Gousselin. 
W. C. Goynor John D. Geary Francis H. Getchell. Vincent J. Giesler.. Anthony G. Girolami Frederick W. Glohe. John D. Golden 
Nathan A. Gold­stein Bobert L Gold­stein 
Joseph F. Gonciarz. James A. Gonner... Morton R. Goodmon. Thomas E. Gordon.. 
 5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  50.00  25.00  25.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  50.00  1.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  5.00 
 25.00  2.00  5.00  250.00  50.00  50.00  10.00  15.00  4.00  5.00  12.50  10.00  2.00  5.00  25.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  15.00  10.00  10.00 
 5.00 
 5.00  5.00 
 10.00 
 10.00  5.00 
 500.00 
 5.00 
 25.00 
 25.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  250.00  10.00  2.00  10.00  5.00  75.00 
 100.00  10.00  10.00  15.00  10.00  20.00  15.00  25.00  5.00  5.00  5.00 
 10.00 
 25.00 
 25.00 
 10.00  20.00  10.00  5.00 

Daniel E. Hilgoriner, Jr.. 25.00 Daniel E. Hilgartner, III. 5.00 
Peter J. Johnen 5.00 John J. Jordan 5.00 William V. Jordan.. 5.00 Charles B. Jorden... 25.00 Fred A. Joyce, Sr... 10.00 John R. Joyce 10.00 Byron V. Kanaley, Jr. 310.00 James J. Kane 10.00 Maurice G. Kane... 10.00 Arthur T. Kortheiser. 15.00 Peter E. Kearney 20.00 Francis J. Keefe 10.00 John E. Keenon 10.00 
L. D. Keeslor 5.00 Anthony W . Kegowicz 5.00 Kenneth H. Kehl.... 10.00 Kevin O. Kehoe.... 5.00 Robert L. Kehoe 5.00 Motthew E. Keller... 5.00 Paul K. Kelley 10.00 Donald M. Kelly.... 5.00 Edward J. Kelly.... 25.00 Joseph J. Kelly 2.00 Thomos J. Kelly.... 5.00 Francis B. Kennedy, Jr. 10.00 James P. Kennedy... 5.00 Wm. E. Kennedy.... 100.00 William J. Kennedy. 5.00 John E. Kenney 10.00 Robert J. Kenney... 5.00 Williom J. Kenny... 10.00 Froncis J. Kent 5.00 ChorlesC Kerwin 100.00 Richord M. Kerwin.. 15.00 John D. Kevill 5.00 Edwin J. Kiep 10.00 Roger J. Kiley 100.00 Grenville N. King... 5.00 Walter A. Kiolboso. 15.00 John E. Kiple 6.00 Julius J. Kiroly 20.00 
GroTerF.Eirchen 2,000.00 Carl E. Koch 3,200.00 
Alvin I. Koehler 5.00 Edwin T. Kolski 5.00 Charles J. Kovacs... 10.00 Cosimir I. Kroiewski. 50.00 Wolter F. Krawiec. 10.00 Walter W. Kristoff, Jr. 3.00 William Charles Kunsch 5.00 John W . Locey 10.00 John L. Lofferty 10.00 
Thomas K. LoLonde. 5.00 
E. L. Lolumier— 250.00 Daniel J. Lomont 50.00 James F. Landgren.... 5.00 James M. Lorkin 10.00 Daniel F. Loughlin.. 5.00 Geo. C. Loughlin... 10.00 Vincent G. Lourito.. 5.00 Bernard P. Leohy... 10.00 Jomes E. Leohy 2.00 John E. Leahy _ 5.00 Word H. Leahy.... " 2.00 William H. Leahy, Jr. 10.00 William R. Leohy... 50.00 Leo P. Lee 20.00 Maurice W . Lee 10.00 Theodore J. Leonos. 5.00 Henry G. LeStronge. 25.00 John A. Levstik 5.00 John R. Lindsoy, Jr.. 5.00 
Francis L. Linton 10.00 
William P. Long... 5.00 
Raymond J. Lor­• enx 1,000.00 
Felix J. Lownik 25.00 John V. Lucas 5.00 Roy J, Lusson 5.00 William M. Lusson.. 5.00 William J. Lynch... 10.00 John J. Lyons 5.00 Redmond J. Lyons.. 5.00 John G. Mock, Jr... 5.00 Justin E. Vickiewich, Jr. 60.00 

Thomas S. Gordon, Jr. Andrew J. Corka... 
M. J. Gormon, Jr... Robert C Gorski... Arch F. Colt Edw. W. Gould.... Vincent L Goulet... Thomas F. Grady... Thomas H. Grady... Thomas J. Groves.. Stephen J. Green... John M. Greene James J. Griffin John A. Griffin John B. Griffin John T. Griffin Seymour R. Gross... John G. Groves Jomes G. Hock Edmund W . Hofner. Cornelius S. Hogerty Richard Haggerty... Richard E. Haggerty Robert T. Halbert... George T. Holey... William M. Hollouer John J. Holpin...... Richard L. Holpin.. 
P. Jordan,Hamel Robert J. Hanley, Jr. Alvin F. Hans James P. Harding... Bruce L. Harlan Robert E. Horrington Daniel P. Harris Dennis B. Hortnett.. John H. Horty 
Harold B. Harrer 
Leo J. Hossenouer.. Charles B. Hayes... Paul H. Heimann... John P. Henebry Frederick J. Heneghan. George P. Heneghan 
Edword J. Hennessy, Jr. William R. Hennessey George P. Henry... William C. Henry... Edw. C. Herbert.... Leo C. Heringer 
Thomas L. Herlihy.. 
E. H. Herzog William F. Hessler.. Fronk G. Heupel John G. Hickey William M. Hickey.. Francis M. Higgins.. John E. Higgins Royal J. Higgins 
James R. Hines Bernard F. Hiss Robert J. Hoog, Jr.. 
F. Nordhoff Hoffman 
Chas. E. Kogon-
Donald J. Hogan... Emmett J. Holland.. Eugene J. Holland.. 
F. J. Holland George D. Hollenhorst Elmer E. Hooley.... Stephen L. Hornyak. William J. Howe, Jr. Edword J. Hunter... Eorle C. Hurley....; Francis J. Hurley... John J. Hussey Albert H. Huler 
Ind. & m. Thea­tres. Inc. 
James T. Igoe 

Robt. Irmiger William D. Jamieson 
Emil J. Jane 
 1.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  50.00  20.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  20.00  «.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  25.00  5.00  1.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  12.50  12.50  15.00  10.00  5.00  50.00  2.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  30.00 
 120.00  25.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  7.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  28.75  10.00  25.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  18.00  10.00  5.00  5.00 
 10.00  10.00  10.00  25.00 
 100.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  3.50  5.00  5.00 
 25.00  5.00  5.00  25.00  6.00  10.00 
 500.00 
 15.00  15.00  50.00  5.00 

Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regulor Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Moster Table, pages 9 to 17. 
Wm. H. Madden.. 100.00 
Jomes E. Madigon.. 10.00 John J. Mahoney.., -5.00 John M. Mahoney.. 5.00 Carl D. MoVort 5.00 John E. Moloney... 10.00 
W. Jos. Moloney.... 5.00 Albert F. Monion... 5.00 
loha F. Manaion 25.00 
Edward F. Mansfield 5.00 Howard H. Marlow, Jr. 2.50 William A. Marshall 
5.00 
Arthur R. Martin, Jr. 
10.00 Mario D. Mossuto... 
8.00 Bernard J. Mosterson 
10.00 Leonard J. Mosterson 
5.00 
Francis G. Matovovsky 
15.00 
Francis W. Motthys.. 
5.00 
Frank J. McAdoms, Jr. 
25.00 
Thomas S. McCobe.. 
25.00 
John C. McCaffery.. 
20.00 
James B. McCa­
hey 1, 000.00 Daniel I. McCain... 5.00 Frank A. McCarthy.. 20.00 George C. McCarthy 5.00 James J. McCarthy.. 5.00 John F. McCarthy... 5.00 Wm. Ambrose McCarthy 5.00 William J. McCarthy 30.00 Michael J. McCaughey 10.00 Charles R. McCIoin. 5.00 Roymond L. McClory 10.00 Edw. J. McCormock. 5.00 Wm. A. McCormick. 2.00 Francis T. McCurrie. 
20.00 
Joseph E. McDermott 
5.00 
Harry F. McDonogh, Jr. 
5.00 
Horry F. McDonogh, Sr. 
25.00 
Philip W. McDonald. 
5.00 
Patrick F. McDonnell 
5.00 
Francis J. McDonough 
10.00 
Frank J. McDonough, Jr. 
5.00 
John W. McDonough 
5.00 
Alton P. McEochern. 
10.00 
Wm. A. McEllen.... 
5.00 
Francis N. McGee... 
5.00 
Thomas F. McGee... 
5.00 
Joseph C. McGinnis. 
10.00 
John P. McGoorty, Jr. 
25.00 
James P. McGovern. 
10.00 
Max McGraw 500.00 
Edward P. McGuire. 10.00 John A. McGuire... 25.00 Michael S. 
McGum 
25.00 
John J. Mclnerney.. 2.00 Michael T. Mclnerney 5.00 Matthew R. Mclnerny 10.00 Donald K. Mcintosh. 10.00 Francis H. McKeever 25.00 Edw. P. McKeown.. 50.00 Harry P. McKeown 25.00 Edward J. McLaughlin. 10.00 Joseph P. McMohon. 3.00 John J. McMurroy.. 5.00 Austin A. McNichols 
25.00 Charles G. McNichols 
2.50 Jos. M. McNulty 20.00 James R. McQueen.. 10.00 James E. McShone.. 3.00 Matthew T. McShone S.00 
Anonymous 1, 000.00 Edward L. McSweeney. . 5.00 George F. Meltzer.. 2.00 Bertram L. Metzger. 5.00 Frank J. Milloy 14.54 Rolph J. Mills 100.00 Clement C. Mitchell. 30.00 Mark J. Mitchell, Jr. 5.00 John H, Mohardt... 10.00 John T. Monoghan.. 20.00 Thomas F. Monahon 10.00 John M. Montague.. 25.00 Rocco J. Montegna.-5.00 

Achilles H. Moorman, Jr. 5.00 Emmetf A. Moron... 10.00 John H. Moron lO.OO Martin C. Moron... 10.00 Thoddeus J. Morowski. 10.00 Lawrence B. Morgan 100.00 Harry J. Morley.... 10.00 John F. Morley lO.OO John H. Morrison, Jr. 5.00 John S. Mortimer... 10.00 John J. Muellmon... 10.00 Robert G. Muellmon 10.00 
C. W. Mulaney 3.00 John H. Mulhern.... 5.00 Clement B. Muhollond. 25.00 Edward B. Mulick... 5.00 PaulL.MuUaney 100.00 James L. Mulvoney.. -10.00 Charles F.Muiphy 1,000.00 Joseph H. Murnane.. 105.00 
John P. Murphy 1.00 Wm. H. Murphy.... , 10.00 Wm. J. Murphy.... 10.00 Horry L. Murray 5.00 John M. Murray 5.00 Donald R. Murlagh.. 5.00 Charles B. Nash 5.00 John R. Nash 50.00 Joseph H. Nosh.... 10.00 Thomas D. Nosh, Jr. 10.00 Thos. E. Nash 100.00 Emmetf J. Necas 10.00 George J. Neumann 5.00 Richard E. Nickson.. 3.00 John R. Niemiero... 5.00 Thomas E. Nolan 10.00 Richard O. Norris... 10.00 Horry R. Nortman... 15.00 John C. Norton 20.00 Walter G. Novesky. 25.00 Joseph E. Nugent... 5.00 Bernard M. O'Brien. 10.00 Francis B. O'Brien.. 2.00 James V. O'Brien... 5.00 Patrick F. O'Brien.. 2.00 John F. O'Connell.. 25.00 Daniel J. O'Connor. 15.00 Edward G. O'Connor 3.00 Francis C. O'Connor 5.00 John L. O'Connor.. 10.00 William J. O'Connor 5.00 
John F. O'Dea 25.00 
Jos. F. O'Donnell... 25.00 Robert G. O'Donnell 5.00 Frank J. Oelerich... 20.00 Jos. F. Oelerich 10.00 Geo. J. O'Grody... 10.00 James F. O'Horo 5.00 Jos. W. O'Horo.... 10.00 Robert W. O'Hara.. 15.00 John J. Oitzinger... 5.00 
J. Barry O'Keefe... 10.00 Joseph D. O'Keefe. 5.00 Alfred R. Oliver, Jr. 5.00 John F. O'Loughlin. 25.00 John F. O'Molley... 5.00 Thomos A. O'Molley 5.00 William L. O'Molley 5.00 Robt. D. O'Neil.... 5.00 Thomas E. O'Neill.. 500.00 Frank J. O'Rourke.. 5.00 John C. O'Rourke... 10.00 John J. O'Shoughnessy. 25.00 Maurice J. O'Sheo.. 10.00 
Joel W. Ostrander.. 5.00 
Bartholomew OToole 1,000.00 Edw. F. O'Toole.... 25.00 
J. Kevin O'Toole 10.00 
J. Norbert Ott 5.00 John A. Ousko 5.00 Robert C. Podesky.. 10.00 C.P.Pa8chen.Sr. 100.00 Geo. A. Patterson... 5.00 James P. Patterson.. 27.00 Francis J. Paulson... 3.00 
Renzo J. Pesovento.. 
Fronk G. Peters 
Elmer J. Peterson 
Herbert W. Pelzel.. 
Richard J. Pfefferle. 
Paul J. Pfohl 
Richard L. Phelon.. 
Eugene W. Pilowski., 
Raymond J. Plott, Jr. 
William R. Plott.... 
Julian J. Podrozo.. 
Vincent G. Ponic... 
Joseph J. Ponzevic. 
John E. Pontorelli... 
Arthur W. Pope Ralph L. Pope Edward M. Porten.. John F. Power Leo J. Powers Francis R. Prusha... Thomas J. Purcell... John Phelps Purdy.. John A. Quinlan.... John M. Quinlan... Richard D. Quinlan. 
Anonymous 
John J' Quinn John P. Quirk, Jr... Edward P. Rafter... 
G. K. Reese George J. Regan John C, P. Regan.. Harold P. Reynolds. Joy J. Reynolds, Jr.. Lawrence W. Reynolds James B. Rice Louis F. Riegel, Jr.. Robert L. Rigley 
C. T. Mey John P. Rinella Edward J. Roach... lohn P. Roche Rudolph G. Rodighero Jos. A. Ronon Joseph M. Ronon... Jack Bose 
Joseph P. Rud Robert J. Ruppe Daniel J. Ryan Edward B. Ryan Edward C. Ryan Edwin L. Ryon John J. Ryan William F. Ryan Mathias P. Sagartz.. Leo M. Sage Francis J. Pendergast 5.00 Harold A. Sift 10.00 John F. Pendergasf. 5.00 Ralph E. Sjobcrg.... 10.00 Robert L. Pendergast 15.00 Robert W. Skoglund 3.00 Thomas M. Pendergast 10.00 Edmund J. Slock 7.00 

5.00 John W. Slatttry.... 10.00 
5.00 Mcmnel Smading 50.00 
1.00 10.00 10.00 50.00 10.00 
5.00 
200 5.00 10.00 
5.00 
5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 lOOO 10.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 -5-00 1,000.00 10.00 10.00 15.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 100.00 5.00 5.0O 200.00 15.00 20.00 30.00 25.00 5.00 20.00 5.00 50.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 
Moximilian J. St. George. 100.00 

 Patrick J. Smid  1.00  
 David  H. Smith  25.00  
 William  J. Smith...  10.00  

Ftmi B. Snit*. Sr. 1,000.00  Edward F. Stock.... 10.00 
 Standard OS Co. 1,500.00 
 Charles R. Stanhope. 
 Fred L. Steers 
 Ervin A. Stefanik.... 
 Laurence P. Stanton. 
 Otto Chas. Stegmaier, Jr. 
 Edward T. Slelmaszek 
 Harold J. Stelzer.... 
 Anton C. Stephen... 
 John B. Sfephon.... 
 Doniel C. Stewart.... 
 Henry C. Sfickelmaier 
 Chorles E. Sline....  William C. Sfurbitfs  Quentin C. Sturm  William J. Sturm... 
 Charles Sullivan ... .  Eugene T. Sullivan. ;  James G. Sullivan..  John J. Sullivan....  John P. Sullivan....  John R. Sullivan.... 
 Jos. p. SoniTon— 
 Jos. V. Sullivan  Leigh R. Sullivan....  Timothy J. Sullivan..  David G. Swonson..  Wiliom A. Swonson..  Thomas E. Tolty....  John F. Tongney...  Robert B. Taylor....  Thomas W. Tearney 
 Francis J. Tenczor..  John J. Thulis  Luke J. Tiernon....'.  Eugene E. Tobin....  John R. Tobin, Jr...  Mario G. Tonelli....  Eugene P. Toolan...  Joseph A. Toussoint.  Norbert F. Toussoint  John E. Treacy  Joseph M. Tromon..  James M. Trotter  Robert M. Trotter...  Francis J. Trunk  Wolter R. Tylutki...  James E.VonderBosch..  Dominick J. Vorroveto 
 J. Kenneth Veenemon 
Quirico M. St. George 5.00 John J. Voelkers Arthur W . Sojewski 5.00 Robt. B. Voglewede. Joseph M. Scales... 10.00 Walter A. Wade John M. Scanlon 10.00 James R. Wolsh Thomas P. Sconlon.. 25.00 Thoi. A. Walsh Williom E. Scanlon.. 10.00 Thomos J. Wolsh.... George A. Scheuer.. 5.00 E. Richard Walter.. Anthony J. Schiavone. 5.00 John F. Walter Leo V. Schiavone 5.00 Homer F. Walters... John S. Schmitt 3.00 Richard I. Walters.. Arthur Schoenstadl 50.00 Arch B. Word Anthony T. Scolaro.. 10.00 George G. Word... Charles T. Scott _ 250.00 John R. Woters, Jr.. 
Peter J. Scullion 5.00 Al Weingarl Melvin J. See 5.00 Arthur C. Weinrich. John P. Segerson... 5.00 John GMrg* Harold A. Shanofield 5.00 WendeU Richard J. Shoughnessy 5.00 George R. Wendt.. John P. Sheehan 10.00 Richard T. Whalen.. John L. Showel 25.00 Robert J. Whalen... 
Leonard W. Siekemeyer 5.00 John B. Wheeler, Jr. Elmer Donald Silho. 2.00 Robert T. White.... 
Edwin SilTerman 500.00 Elmer J. Whitty Hermon H. SilTer- John I. Wiggins 
man lO.OOChris B. Wilhelmy, Jr. 
5.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 
10.00 
2.00 
5.00 
50.00 
15.00 5.00 12.00 10.00 10.00 20.00 5.00 5.00 
5.00 
5.00 10.00 25.00 5.00 
25.00 20.00 5.00 
5.00 
1.00 1.00 10.00 105.00 1.00 
50.00 5.00 10.00 5.0O 10.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 25.00 25.00 5.00 3.00 2.00 20.00 5.00 15.00 25.00 
100.00 50.00 10.00 25.00 5.00 15.00 15.00 lo.m 100.00 25.00 25.00 
10.00 
10.00 
200.00. •10.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 25.00 10.00 25.00 
CUcoge Haigliia 
Otto A. Shonder, Jr... 5.00 Wilbert L. Terre....... 10.00 William R. Waddington, Jr. 1.00 
John F. Chmmey 100.00 
John R. Conlin 30.00 Thomas E. Courtney,. Jr. 5.00 
Donald J. Wilkins.. 
Frederick W. Williamson GM.awaUaaaaB 
William C Wilson.. Geo. C Witteried.. Anton ].WaiidraiA Charles F. Woods.. 
John R. Woods John V. Woulfe.... 
Richard J. Wren.... John M. Wuertz.... 
Lincoln E. Wurzer.. William U. Wylie.. Chester A. Wynne... Paul M. Yozoki Charles E. Zongerle. Charles A. Zitnik... 
Chilficotho 
Robert E. Ward 
Chzislopliw 
Richard T. Mollovish .. 
CeUinsnU* 
James E. Bellinger, Jr.. 
Crystal Lake 
Raymond J. Angsten Joseph A. Conerty, Jr. 
George A. Costello 
George K. Costello John E. Costello Thomas A. Costello Walter F. Kelley 
Vernon J. Knox 
Danville 
John D. Bslton Ralph J. Dolton Lester D. Fohey Joseph W. Meitzler, Ernest F. 'Sedlmoyr 
Decatur 
Wm. P. Downing 
Raymond E. Fiedler.... Stephen G. Groliker... Bernard B. Livergood... Bernard A. Morty James H. McGroth James 5. McRoberts Charles B. Nelson Joseph W. Nelson 
Deeifield 
V/illiom P. Corroll, Jr.. Robert L. Smith, Jr 
DeKalb 
Robert H. Gallagher Nicholas C. Pesut John P. Ronon 
DePue 
George B. Meagher 
Dixon 
James E. Bales Sherwood Dixon Poul Fry 
J. Willord Jones 
R. Gerald Jones Charles M. Kearney 
 10.00  5.00  230.00  5.00  100.00  5.00  5.00 
 110.00  5.00 
 10.00  5.00  10.00 
 5.00  25.00  15.00  .10.00 ' 1.00 
 3.50 
 10.00 
 50.00 
 10.00  25.00  200.00  20.00  10.00  10.00  10.00 
 50.00 
 5.00  15.00  5.00 
 Jr. 10.00 
 10.00 
 25.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  20.00  50.00 
 15.00  5.00 
 5.00  5.00  3.00 
 20.00 
 10.00  15.00 
 5.00  10.00  10.00  10.00 

Regular Foce Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
John Lahey 5.00 Thomos C. Keegan, Jr.. 30.00 Great Lakes Leo B. Garland 10.00 >Cnonk Edward A. O'Malley... 5.00 Michael D. Kelly 5.00 Charles V. Krdovec 5.00 Edward F. Riely 
Fronk P. Butoroc 10.00 5.00 George O. Hays/ Jr... 
Geo. F. O'Malley 5.00 R. Emmett Kelly 5.00 5^00 Albert A. Kuhle 5.00 Wolter G. Kelly 5.00 Lawrence C. Stewart 5.00 Molina Oolion John M. Kuhn 5.00 Joseph ft. Thesing 5.00 
Greenfield 10.00 
Thomas P. Liston 10.00 ^gpg John Tully 500.00 
Robert Gollegos 5.00 5.00 
Albert B. Lee John E. Mock 5.00 

Peter V. Moulder 5.00 LA e Forest 
Downers Grove Momence 
Harvey 

William A. Moulder 10.00 
,gpg Joseph B. Olbrys 10.00 
John F. Helmer 5.00 Edward N. Murroy 5.00 
William F. Donahue, Jr. William G. Hoffert.... 5.00 Parish 
George C. Mullen 10.00 
Vincent I. Murphy 5.00 Angus Robinson ]l^ UkoViUa 5.00 
Raymond E. Loy 5.00 Varnum A. Parish 5.00 
Francis J. O'Laughlin.. 5.00 Wm. L. Voss, Jr 
John F. McAIpinc 5.00 James E. Williamson... 10.00 
Arthur F. O'Neil 10.00 
Monticello 

Arthur E. Petersen 10.00 ICghland Park 
DuQuoin . . », Lake Zurich 
Vincent T. Walsh 20.00 

Donald J. Sockley 5.00 Walter H. Mulflur 20.00 ——— Leonard H. Reed 1.00 
Wra. J. Shea, Sr 10.00 William J. Dunn 
5.00 Stephen F. Coughlin 10.00 Edward L. Simpson 5.00 Robert T. FitzSimon 5.00 
Morris 
East Alton 

Albert J. Smith, Jr 5.00 Francis E. McLaughlin.. 5.00 LaSnlle Thomas 10.00 Edward J. Sullivan, Jr.. 1.00 Edmund A. Stephen 10.00 Vincent C. Scully 5.00 James F. Cahill, Jr 10.00 Robert 1E. Mack 10.00 
W. Buel Stewort 5.00 Vincent J. Duncan 10.00 East MoUne James A. Toohey 10.00 Highwood Walter Duncan 1,500.00 Morrison 
Williom E. BoIIaert 2.00 M. Joy Turner 25.00 Thomas H. Borry 5 00 Charles F. Froberger... 13.00 Carl E. 5.00 Richard S. Walsh 10.00 Jos. D. Hurley 5.00 
Anthony W. Wirry 5.00 
East Peoria Hinsdale Mounds 
Lawrenceville 
Frederick C. Vicic, Jr... 5.00 Robert J. Bodie 5.00 William P. Saffo 5.00 Fairfield 5 00 Joseph J. Motracis 5.00 
John F. Dinges East S L Louis Richord H. Keoughan.. 2.00 Mt. Camel Lebanon 
Homewood 

William J. Hormberg.. 20.00 Robert L. Henneberger. 25.00 Farmington ^0 0 tJavid M. Walsh, Jr.... 10.00 
Joseph B. McGlynn. 1,500.00 Donald E. O'Toole. Bernard W. Underriner. 25.00 Francis E. McGuire 5.00 Charles M. Schill 5.00 Edward F. O'Malley... 10.00 lacksonville-Liberlyville ^.^ Wemoa 
Flossmoor 5.00 Francis X. Graham 25.00 |,;_.^^^j p ^^^^ ,(, ^^ 
George J. Carpenter, Jr. £ffmgliani James F. Driscoll, Jr... 50.00 Edward J. Flynn 10.00 Jomes F.Molidor !'™ J. Walter Duncan, Jr... 25.00 Bernard J. Huelsbusch. 1.00 5.00 Otto B. Mol.dor 5.00 ^^^ ^_ Schumacher 25.00 
John R. Lovery 
Forest Park Lincoln 

Elgin loUet 
Thomas K. Reis 5.00 North Chicago 
J. Richard Kerrigan 5.00 
Richard G. Cannon 5.00 William G. Smith 2.00 Robert J. Baskerville... 5.00 
Willard C. Morrey 5.00 Paul G. Funk 5.00 Dominic F. Boetto 10.00 
John H. Tallett 2.00 

Lineolnwood 
Philip C, Hemming 10.00 Fox Lake William J. Bossingham. 10.00 John V. McCarthy 10.00 Harold H. Bowler 5.00 Arthur J. Woods 5.00 
Daniel M. Daniszewicz. 1.00 
North Riverside 

Donald J. McNamoro. 1.00 Joseph L. Brady 5.00 John L. McNerney 5.00 Wode J. Brady 10.00 Litchfield Charles W. O'Reilly.... 5.00 
Freepori 
Robert F. Sweeney 5.00 

Chorles F. Meyers 10.00 Francis A. Dunn 10.00 James E. Godfrey 1.00 
Mr. and Mrs. Doug­

William T. Meyers 5.00 Simon T. Farrell 10.00 
Michael F. Godfrey 1.00 
las Grant 10.00 
Eugene V. O'Brien 5.00 Edward L. Fronck 10.00 Oak Lawn 
George M. Monroe 10.00 
Roland G. Schloger... 5.00 John E. Kennedy 2.50 
Leckport Donald F. Draper 5.00 
Edwin S. Ryon 10.00 
Roy J. Schoonhoven.. 5.00 Edward H. King 25.00 Robert J. Schmelze 30.00 Francis J. Martin 5.00 
Elmer C. Tobin 5.00 Joseph B. Kirby 10.00 
Oak Park 

James W. Tobin 5.00 Jos. V. Kirincich 10.00 
Galesburg Lombard .. 5.00 
Paul G. Tobin 10.00 Chos. F. Lennon 5.00 Edwin A. Graham 5.00 Clore C. Leser 5.00 John F. Burke 5.00 Horry A. Baldwin .. 10.00 Elmhurst Thomas V. Graves 5.00 John R. Marcus 2.00 John L. Denniston 5.00 William H. Bromann, Jr. 10.00 James C. Redington, Jr. 3.00 Edward J. Mayer 10.00 John L. Buckley .. 50.00 
Jerome D. Blievernicht. 5.00 Charles A. Chouffet... 10.00 John H. Weber Potrick F. McForland, Jr. 5.00 
10.00 Lyons John F. Clark .. 5.00 Byron E. Martin Edward A. Cogley, Jr. .. 10.00 
Howard C. Fischer 10.00 John R. Minzing 1.00 2.00 
Geneva 10.00 Orville O. Colionni.. .. 25.00 
Clorence H. Helbing... 2.00 Roy C. Whipple . . 10.00 
Macouib 
Joseph R. Murray 5.00 David V. Flynn 25.00 Charles E. White 5.00 
.. 25.00 

J. Warren Schwontes... 10.00 Eugene Jaeger 5.00 Donald F. Wise 70.00 George E, Purdum 10.00 
James B. Cormock . . 1.00 

H. G. Seaman 25.00 Samuel W. Rowbottom. 5.00 . . 5.00 
Edward J. Von Huisseling 5.00 Kankakee Monhattan . . 10.00 
Gibson City 

Daniel E. Holwell 5.00 Richard E. McHugh.... 3.00 
. . 5.00 

Elmwood Park Rev. C. Rourke Motsett 5.00 Adolph E. Kerger 10.00 
. . 5.00 Froncis A. Brichacek 15.00 Henry Mackin, Jr 
f " Monteno Herbert A. Eggert .. 10.00 
Beniomin J. Mikes. 5.00 Glencoe Horry L. Yeotes 5.00 
John A. Vaichulus 10.00 .. 5.00 Thomas A. Conley 10.00 .. 10.00 
Evanston Eenilworth 
Wm. J. Corbett, Jr... 100.00 
.. 5.00 

Motloon 
Thomos E. Adomson, Jr. 3.00 John W. Hosbein 5.00 Saverio J. Alonzi 5.00 .. 5.00 
William B. Armel 25.00 William P. White, Jr... 50.00 Thomas E. Dillon 5.00 Paul F. Grant 10.00 Gail D. Htch, Jr...... .. 10.00 Robert J. Bey 70.00 Williom P. Young, Jr.. 10.00 Robert W. Hargrove 3.00 Bernard J. Sullivon... 20.00 .. 10.00 Robert W . Kuipers 5.00 August T., Burke 10.00 Glen Ellyn Maywood .. 5.00 
John C. Brennan 10.00 Daniel S. Gibbs, Jr... .. 5.00 
Max Burnell 5.00 10.00 Eewanee Thomas A. Gorman. .. 15.00 Wiliom Joseph Connors 25.00 Jacob L. Leisen 10.00 l.aurence R. Garland.. 5.00 Walter B. LaBerge 5.00 Raymond J. Graham.., .. 5.00 George T. Demetrio... 10.00 Thomas A. Ryan 10.00 Philip H. Kirley 5.00 Joseph P. McKeown 35.00 Walter V. Hart, Jr.... .. 5.00 Wm. A. Draper 25.00 Maurice F. Wollensach. 15.00 Jolin F- Rinello 5.00 Andrew J. Puplis 2.00 .. 5.00 Eugene R. Duggon 5.00 Samuel J. Rinella 10.00 John J. Staunton 2.00 Ernest C. Hechinger.., .. 5.00 John N. Fetzer 15.00 Kenneth H. Schultz 5.00 John R. Houghteling... ,. 7.00 
Clayton S. Duerr Lawrence J. Dundo 2.00 
Glenview 

Wales E. Finnegan 10.00 Richard M. Terry 2.50 .. 10.00 
Melrose Paric 
Edward P. Byrnes, Jr... 

James D. Griffin 10.00 l"' " Robert T. Terry 2.50 .. 5.00 Joseph F. Hortzer 7.50  Henry Zang 5.00 T. A. Knusman 
William R. Kohl V. Garvin Fransioli 5.00 
2-00 N. . 600.00 
Paul A. Rigali Charles F. Lemons 5.00 
Edward B. Henslee, Jr. 10.00 5.00 .. 10.00 
Kenneth E. Higby, Jr... 10.00 .. 10.00 
LoGronge 

Edwin J. Hughes, Jr 10.00 GoU 5.00 Mondota Horry E. MacLoughlin. .. 5.00 
John L. Banks 

Herold J. Johnson 2.00 Robert J. Gontner. 15.00 Ralph C. Madden 5.00 George L. Morcucci... .. 15.00 
5.00 Cyril T. Birkbeck 

Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
Clorence M. Mar-5.00 John B. Coron 10.00 Joseph L Guccione.. 5.00 Wifanrtl* 
10.00 5.00 Roy M. DeCourcey 10.00 Donald A. Hennessy. 10.00 Lymon J. Clark 7J0 John H. McAuliffe, Jr.. 5.00 Rudolph L. Kelly 10.00 John C. Hooley 5.00 Paul J. Long 3.00 Philip A. Costello 5.00 William J. McAuliffe... 5.00 10.00 Bradley L. Manning 2.00 Robert A. McDonnell. 5.00 Alden J. Cusick 25.00 Roberf E. McCormiclt... 10.00 2.00 Tim J. Sullivan 25.00 Rronklyn E. 10.00 
 Doon William J. McGah 10.00 Wm. J. Motsett 10.00 RocUord . John F. Treacy.'. 5.00 W. G. Ferstel :... 50.00 William J. McNomara. 10.00 25.00 Warren P. Wahl.... 10.00 
James R. Bokemon 5.00 James W . Ford 5.00 
John P. McNulty 5.00 5.00 John B. Condon_3,333.00 Gordon L Forester.... 5.00 Bernard F. Meagher 5.00 5.00 Leonard B. Con­Stnolac Edward A. Fox 15.00 
10.00 John A. Scherer 8.00 don J 3,334.00 Robert E. Conness... 25.00 John S. Gleoson, Jr.... 15.00 
5.00 5.00 John J. Solon 5.00 Robert E. Gorman 10.00 
Leonard W. Condon...3,438.00 ' 

Edmund L. Morrissey... 10.00 5.00 James J. Walsh 5.00 Geo. F. Hartnett 25.00 
Robert Doyle 150.00 

Robert V. Mullen 5.00 J. L. Slevin 25.00 Edward H. F. Kelley, Jr. 3.00 
James H. Dunn, Jr 700.00 

Raymond H. Mulligan.. 5.00 10.00 SycoBMiff^ Robert P. Lontrgon.... 5.00 
John W. HItchcox 35.00 

25.00 5.00 Eneas F. McDonnell.... 5.00 
Clifford F. Hyland 10.00 James E. Boyle 5.00 
Robert J. O'Byrne 5.00 5.00 Robert C. McKahan 10.00 
5.00 Thomas A. Keegan 5.00 Robert W. Boyle 10.00 
Roymons A. O'Connell. 7.00 Walter J. Melzger 10.00 
Elbridge M. Lorden 25.00 Floyd E. Brower 5.00 
Frank E. O'Dowd, Jr... 5.00 25.00 G. David Murphy.. 4.00 
Raymond C. Marelli 10.00 George E. Harbert 25.00 
10.00 Joseph F. Timmerman.. 10.00 Thomas C. Noonan 25.00 
Harold E. McCobe 85.00 

5.00 Willis H. Walker 5.00 Richard V. Oelerich 10.00 
Edword J. Rodgers, Sr.. 10.00 Taylornll* 
William E. Quirk 10.00 Clarence V. Ward, Jr.,. 5.00 Morcellus M. Oshe 10.00 Alfred G. Rubly 10.00 George W. Johnson.... 5.00 
Robert W. Raff 5.00 Horry M. Weakley 2.00 Howard V. Pholin 5.00 
John J. Wahl, Jr 10.00 

William D. Rolston 7.00 3.00 John E. Reinert 50.00 
Francis H. Ward 5.00 Tautopelia 
5.00 2.00 John W . Seallan 25.00 
10.00 Thos. H. Zoslcy _1,550.G0 Joseph B. Siemer .10.00 Reynolds C. Seilz 5.00 
Hock Island 

Joseph L. Rigali 10.00 Thomas W . Sexton 25. n Walter F. Rogers, Jr... 10.00 Petersburg Jos. D. Shelly 10.00 
William F. Bernbrook.. 5.00 TaUlwa 
Leo J. Herbert 25.00 
Francis C. King 25.00 

Michael J. Romano, Jr.. 2.00 15.00 Francis S.Russell 15.00 R. Zeno Sloudt, Jr 10.00 
Charles A. Schuessler.. 10.00 Robert E. Stritch 5.00 Edmund J. Meagher 10.00 
15.00 PinckneyriUe Tdaeo John E. Sullivan 5.00 Stephen C. Miller 5.00 
70.09 William M. Trusko, Jr.. 1.00 
20.00 Bernard J. Ghiglieri.. 10.00 
Vance N. Uhlmeyer 5.00 
5.00 

Rev. Keithen L. Roche. 25.00 
5.00 Pontiac ynnnetka 
10.00 Shannon 25.00 
Urbona William S. Allen 10.00 
John E. Welsh 20.00 William R. Schorman.. 3.00 
Edward H. Ball, Jr 5.00 

John J. Word, Jr 5.00 5.00 Lynn R. Bryan 3.00 
Thomas H. Jr..

Thomas J. Vicars. 5.00  Beacon, 100.00 Quincy John A. Breen, Jr 5.00 
S i Charles 
Onoigo 
J.UU 

Viola Robert H. Breen 5.00 
10.00 
10.00 
Joseph T. Dorgon 10.00 

5.00 5.00 
St. Elmo 
Norman N. Feifes 25.00 

50.00 Otis B. Mack 5.00 
Ottawa 

10.00 Robert F. Graham 25.00 
5.00 

10.00 Wm. E. Guy, Jr , 10.00 
Vaga
Wm. D. Clark <.00 Salem Edward H. Holler 5.00 
Bantoul 
50.00 

2.00 Morris C. Herfel 5.00 
Anthony W. Crowley.. 50.00 

Rev. Chas. J. Williams. 30.00 
20.00 William P. Kearney 25.00 
5.00 

50.00 Washingtoii 
Robb J. Purcell James E. Sonford 3.00 
Robert E. Richardson... 10.00 Thomas H. Geselbfocht. 5.00 Henry A. Slomen, Jr... 1.00 
Hirer Forest 
Seneca 

Richard E. Schwarzbach 25.00 5.00 Edward E. Habecker... 10.00 Alfred C. Stepan, Jr 25.00 
Edward J. Kelly 5.00 

5.00 Wm. M. Archibald 3.00 William M. White 10.00 25.00 
Wuuconda WoodDcd* 
Shawneetown 
25.00 

9w* OBO xnMf John S. Rohe 10.00 
Owaneco 25.00 James J. Gait 5.00 
5.00 . PUBp FtoeUka— 15.00 
5.00 WoodBiTar 
25.00 Skokia 
Joseph J. Borr. 5.00 

Parij Bruce J. Holmberg 15.00 Robert J. Rohrboch 5.00 Waakagan 
John J. Gaiaer. 5.00 

Thomas E. Hosty, Jr... 10.00 James A. Bosco 10.00 
John C. Riedell 5.00 Neil C. Hurley, Jr 25.00 Springfield John E. Bower 5.00 
John R. SteidI 5.50 
Woedatodc 

Chas. T. Smollwood... 15.00 James C. Butler 5.00 
Michael J. Besso 5.00 
William M. Carroll, Jr.. 2.00 

10.00 Charles J. Foley 25.00 
Park Ridge Roscoe C. Bonfean 10.00 
Frederick B. Snite, Jr. 1,100.00 Paul P. Goodman 5.00 
William M. Carroll, Sr.. 25.00 

Wm. R. Bowes, Jr 5.00 John M. Carroll 25.00 
Clyde J. Zoia 10.00 

10.00 William T. Kirby 25.00 
Herbert F. Clark. Jr 2.00 Joseph H. Churchman.. 5.00 
10.00 Donald E. Mihon 10.00 
Samuel Fox innn Thomas P. Cody 10.00 
John O. Weibler 2.00 Lawrence J. Petroshius. 10.00 
Thaddeus H. Harvey... 5.00 Chas. G. Corcoran 25.00 George J. Jeschke, Jr.. 10.00 Hugh M. Gorvey 10.00 Iiidioiia 
BiTerside 

Anthony J. Mollek 5.00 Londo E. Howard 5.00 WastBrooUyn 
Alaxoiidnoi 

I. T. Murphy 1,000.00 10.00 John P.Lynough 5.00 Oliver L. Gehant 10.00 
Theodore F. Smith 

10.00 3.00 Gerald J. McGlone 5.00 5.00 Robert D. Stephan 25.00 5.00 Richard T. Neeson 7.00 Westchaslar 
Jlndaraea 
5.00 Thomas J. O'Connor.. 5.00 

Arthur T. Cavender 5.00 
Peoria Claude W. Tourek 50.00 Joseph A. Pedrucci 5.00 James F. Carson 5.00 Wm. L. Appal 25.00 Jos. B. Quinn 25.00 James F. Fogarty 5.00 Francis J. Brady 5.00 Roberts Albert C. Schlipf 100.00 Elmo A. Funk 25.00 
Wast Chicago 
Edward E. Coshman... 5.00 Martin J. Rock Francis G. Stelte 2.00 William R. Conaton... 5.00 Thomas C. Funk 25.00 James A. Cossidy 3.00 5.00 William H. Stelte 1.00 John F. McCabe 5.00 Wolfer F. Jones 5.00 John E. Cossidy, Sr 200.00 Robinson George L. Westen-Walter F. Jones 5.00 
5.00 

•Thomas H. Connor 5.00 berger, Jr 10.00 Glenn W . Richardson. 
Gerald J. Ball 10.00 Waatam Springs 
Paul E. Schrenker 5.00 
Louis F. Crystol 5.00 

J. Stanley Bradbury 5.00 Paul E. Duncan 20.00 Lester D. DeTrempe... 1.00 
Wm. E. Bradbury S.OO Spring Valley Joseph W. Mehring, Jr. 5.00 
James C. Dolan 10.00 

S. V. Cauley 25.00 Charles R. Fehr 5.00 Richard P. Robinson 5.00 iligoa John W. Gilbert 5.00 
Frank A. Reese 5.00 Raymond T. Schuster... 2.00 Joseph J. Saitta 5.00 George R. Grimm 1.00 
Leonard H. Skoglund, Jr. 20.00 
Sterling 
Albert F. Gury, Jr. 5.00 
Rochelle 

Baias*aia Vincent F. Carney 100.00 WhaotaB 
Daniel J. Hecht 5.00 Joseph H. Bittorf 50.00 
Wm. H. Holbrock 5.00 Lawrence E. Burke 5.00 John W. Hillenbrand.. 5.00 
John Wr Hughes 5.00 O. I. Coron 2,500.00 Richard E. Froetter 1.00 George A.,Binder 5.00 Paul C. Romweber ioo.n 
Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
5.00 

Austin C. Gildeo 10.00 Horry G. Hogon 1,150.00 Robert P. Reilly... Thos. V. Hopper 10.00 Michael J. Hogon 5.00 
Bediord 

Rocco V. Schiralli. •5.00 
Thomas B. Brennan 5.00 
Robert F. Holtz 5.00 Joseph J. Horan 10.00 Charles A. Shirk.. 10.00 
Clarence J. Donovan.. 25.00 Edword A. loRocque.. 5.00 Edward L. Hultgren 5.00 
Arnold A. Wiener. 10.00 
Claude J. Quillen, Jr... 5.00 Ralph A. Montagono 50.00 Henry J. Humbrecht 5.00 
Rob't. E. Proctor, Sr... 50.00 Bernord T. Keorns 25.00 Gas City 
Biemen 

Matthew M. Ronzone... 5.00 John W.-Kenny 5.00 Gerald T. Degen 5.00 
Hurdis D. Dausman 5.00 
Alex F. Sievers 5.00 Wilmont T. Kerr 1.00 Henry P. Degen 5.00 
Samuel E. Lemon 2.00 
Richctrd L. Snide-Klett Ur . & Robert V. Sloan 15.00 
John N. Leonard 10.00 
zncm 1,000.00 Supply Co 200.00 
Francis X. Schaefer 4.00 
-John F. Lill 5.00 Goshen Thomas B. Sparks 5.00 
Dudley F. Stoller 5.00 
F. Leslie Logon 25.00 

Myron C. Hershfield.. 5.00 John H. Logon, Jr 5.00 
Elwood Charles P. Howard.. 5.00 
Braokville 
Joseph J. Modden 5.00 

Robert M. Rink, Sr... 25.00 
James J. Conner 5.00 
Robert E. Closer 5.00 
James C. McArdle..... 5.00 

John L. Lehr 1.00 
Richord B. McArdle 5.00 

Granger 
Henry P. Schrenker 5.00 
Brownsburg Francis P. McCarthy 10.00 
Joseph J. Bogiokas.. 5.00 
Robert L. Gavin 5.00 James E. McClintock... 5.00 
Evansville Burnett C. Bauer 2.00 
Donnelly P. McDonald. 5.00 Coomel Donnelly P. McDonald, Jr. 5.00 
35.00 

Kenneth H. Cassidy... 10.00 James F. McGill 10.00 Greensburg Thomas C. Clemens... 8.00 Thomas A. McKiernan.. 25.00 Urban E. Link 5.00 Frederick G. Dewes... 10.00 Oskar D. Rust 10.00 
Karl F. Johnson 1,000.00 
Arthur W . Miller 5.00 
Chalmers = 

10.00 Jerome J. Miller 5.00 John C. Thomas 1.00 
William R. Barr 10.00 
10.00 

Gerald Morsches 10.00 Stephen A. Ensner ... 20.00 Greensfork 
Thomas H. Moylon 3.00 
Chesterton 

J. H. Fendrich 100.00 
Bernard M. Niezer 10.00 John D. Ellis 5.0G James R. Martin 100.00 William T. Rtzgerold. 25.00 
Louis F. Niezer- 25.(1P John F. Gaither 5.00 
Richard G. NUl „1,500.00 Honunond 
Clinton Donald F. Holler 5.00 
Robert L. O'Brien 100.00 
5.00 
100.00 

Donald J. Marietta... 3.00 Jomes A. O'Connor 5.00 
50.00 Paul A. Morietto 3.00 Jerome J. O'Dowd 5.00 
Ralph F. Heger 50.00 
10.00 

Raymond E. Kersting.. 25.00 
Francis J. O'Loughlin.. 3.00 
25.00 

Columbus 5.00 James H. S. 01ds„ 50.00 
.75.00 

F. Wendell Lensing... 5.00 
Guy C. Cyr 3.00 E. S. O'Reilly 100.00 
25.00 

Edward E. Motthews.. 17.00 
Joseph T. O'Reilly 15.00 Joseph C. O'Kone 3.00 
Chorles E. Dell 25.00 Victor H. Mettler 3.00 
Francis S. Pittmon, Jr.. 25.00 Joseph R. Rudd 10.00 
Thomas P. Grody 5.00 20.00 
Charles R. Poinsotte 1.00 Thomas G. Scheitlin... 3.00 
Jomes R. Hilger 25.00 10.00 
James A. Poinsotte 10.00 Edward M. Stubblefield 10.00 
Joseph P. Hilger 25.00 1.00 
John H. Reed 5.00 

Robert W. Schramm 5.00 
Paul C. Thole 5.00 
Mrs.A.H.Reichard 5.00 

Connersville Anthony R. Schreiner... 10.00 
5.00 
Charles J. Reuss 25.00 
5.00 

Albert P. Heeb 10.00 Paul F. Unverzagt 1.00 
Paul Sogstetter 40.00 
15.00 

Charles W. Heinemon.. ' 15.00 Henry A. Wimberg 200.00 
Richard E. Scheele.... 10.00 
10.00 

George A. Heinemon... 10.00 Bernard F. Witucki 5.00 
N. J. Schenkel 10.00 
20.00 

Edward A. Huston 5.00 
Frederick D. Schoppmon 5.00 

Fort Wayne Raymond B. Young 10.00 Bernard R. Schuh 5.00 
Crowiords^dlle 10.00 
Robert F. Sosenheimer. 5.00 

Hartford City 
20.00 

Bernard B. Foley 55.00 Chos. A. Spanley_ 100.00 
George H. Boldus 5.00 35.00 
William W. Runge 5.00 Thomas J. Suelzer 5.00 Raymond E. Swonson.. 5.00 Edw. S. Sullivan 5.00 
10.00 

5.00 Haubstodt 
Martin P. Torborg 5.00 

Crown Point John A. BerghoH 1,000.00 Raymond G. Ziliak 10.00 
Paul L. Venderley 10.00 

Norbert G. Berghoff 110.00 
Charles P. Moloney 20.00 Leonard A. Wall...... . 5.00 John M. Rohrbach. 5.00 10.00 Clifford B. Word 25.00 Kghland 
Ray Bueter 50.00 
Richard O. Welton 5.00 Roy A. Schaub 10.00 
Clarence J. Centlivre... 25.00 
Decatur Francis J. Wemhoff, Jr.. 5.00 
Francis N. Centlivre 5.00 Aloysius D. Schmitt 100.00 
Edwin J. Wesner 15.00 Holy Cross 
Herman G. Centlivre 25.00 
John E. Williams 10.00 

Francis M. Koboyoshi.. 1.00 
Robert E. Centlivre 5.00 
Louis S. Woodka 10.00 
Delphi 
50.00 
Albert E. Younghous... 3.00 

Byrom T. Crosby 5.00 John J. Curtin 5.00 Howe Richard E. Hough 10.00 10.00 Alfred A. Wode 5.00 
Franldort 

Maurice J. DeWold 5.00 Eorl F.Gruber 250.00 
Dyer Paul C. DeWold 20.00 Huntington 
Paul J. Meifeld 20.00 

Richard A. Schmidt 5.00 Robert F. DeWold 5.00 
25.00 

Walter F. Dillon 5.00 
..20.00 
Gary 

Edward Joseph Disser.. 5.00 
East Chicago 2.00 
Richard T. Doermer 5.00 Clarence W . Boder 25.00 Paul J. Anderson 100.00 
1.00 

Patrick W. Donahue 5.00 Paul J. Boyle 5.00 
Thomos W. Callohan... 15.00 5.00 
Robert F. Eggeman 10.00 Edward R. Brennan 10.00 Frank A. Ciszczon 1.00 
Stephen B. Fleming 25.00 George A. Corberry 5.00 
Alexander Mania _ 100.00 Indianapolis 
25.00 Thomas H. Clifford, Jr.. 5.00 John F. Murphy 5.00 
1.00 William V. Clifford.... 5.00 10.00 Lester Murphy 25.00 
20.00 Donald L. Elser 5.00 20.00 William J. Riley 25.00 
Bernord E. Gotta, Jr. .. 5.00 Edward P. Epler 2.00 William J. Ash 25.00 
John A. Suty 15.00 
15.00 Horry G. Hague 10.00 Joseph G. Beck 10.00 Norbert S. WIeklinski.. 5.00 
Benjamin W. Richard A. Hall 10.00 Peter A. Beczkiewicz 15.00 HrrHmrm 35.00 Francis J. Hannoboch.. 25.00 5.00 Elkhart 10.00 J. Chorles Hoyes 5.00 E. Richard Biggins 5.00 Ed Armstrong 10.00 10.00 Richard W. Kelly 10.00 10.00 James D. Ash 5.00 5.00 Francis J. Louerman 5.00 10.00 William E. Case 10.00 Walter J. Hein 10.00 William M. Lower 5.00 Thomas J. Bloclcwell, Jr. 10.00 Mourice C. Davis 3.00 Alfred J. Hiegel 10.00 Thomas J. McKenno 10.00 James W. Boehning 5.00 Anthony J. DeDario 2.00 10.00 Stephen F. Nyikos 20.00 5.00 Francis J. Ernst 5.00 Raymond J. Hoffman.. 5.00 Thomas J. Rodigon. 10.00 5.00 
Nicholas J. Connor, Jr Francis E. Coughlin... Robert F. Courtney 
Edward F. Cunningham 
William A. Donnelly 
Wayne L. Doolittle 
Alfred C. Dowd 
Thomas L. Downard 
Michael J. Duffecy... 
Richard R. Everrood 
Donald H. Felts 
Potrick J. Fisher 
Robert N. Fitzgerald 
Thomos M. Fitzgerold, 
William E. Foley 
Charles J. Gillespie 
Wilfred B. Hobing.... 
John D. Harrington Wm. M. Holland, Jr.... Walter W. Houppert.. 
Robert H. Kosberg Leroy J. Keach, Jr William E. Kennedy, Jr. 
William E. Kennedy, Sr. 
John W. Kirsch 
Arthur L. Kronzfelder.^. Robert G. Lancaster 
Frederick L. Mohaffey.. Thomos J. Mohaffey, Jr. Elbert W. Mohoney Theodore P. Marbaugh. 
Coleman L. McGuire, Jr 
Robert L. McKenno 
Bfr. ond ^frs. Ha !• McMonun .... 
10.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 • 5.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 50.00 5.00 3.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 4.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 25.00 1.00 15.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 3.00 50.00 5.00 20.00 10.00 5.00 15.00 20.00 Jr.10.00 
5.00 5.00 15.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 10.00 7.50 5.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 
10.00 - 15.00 100.00 20.00 5.00 5.00 15.00 25.00 75.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 125.00 5.00 
10.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 100.00 100.00 5.00 20.00 20.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 
5.00 

Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state tolols will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
Robert R. McMonus.... 10.00 Kokomo William A. Pfister..;... 5.00 MuBStar 5.00 Edgar C. McNomoro... 5.00 Charles F. Pilliard 50.00 1.00 
Froncis M. Carey 10.00 Charles R. Biclel 20.00 Joseph M. McNamoro.. 5.00 Louis R. Rohlof 10.00 Armiger H. Soniiners.... 5.00 
John J. Corey 10.00 Horry Metzger 10.00 Robert N. Schiel 5.00 5.00 
Potrick J. Corey 10.00 Mnlbaxzy John W. Meyer 5.00 William J. Schmuhl.... 10.00 Thomas J. Stritch, Jr. . 5.00 
Harold J. Druecker... 10.00 
Robert L. Clork 10.00 
Sebastian J. Miller 5.00 Mork Storen 25.00 Rev. Robt. H. Sweeney. 50.00 
Leo J. Grace 25.00 John P. Krebser 5.00 
William J. Mooney.... 100.00 Miss Noro Rose Sullivan 4.00 3.00 
Mnnd* 
Robert B. Moynahon.... 25.00 Mr. omd Mrs. D. V. Paul E. Wack 5.x Thomas A. Cannon 25.00 
Joseph C. Perkins 10.00 
John I. Mullen 5.00  10.00 James P. Wolsh 10.00 
Jomes L. Sheerin 25.00 Trahey William F. Craig 10.00 
Maurice D. Mulrey.... 10.00 Eugene J. Young 5.00 Joseph G. Walsh 5.00 James E. Murphy 2.00 John T. Whitely 5.00 
Mark E.. Zimmerer 100.00 
Howard R. DeVault.... 15.00 
John B. Ervin 25.00 
Russell R. Neol 3.00 Robert S. Wilte 5.00 
Lcdoyette Middlebuiy 
James W . Halligon 5.00 
James G. Newlond 10.00 Robert M. Witucki 5.00 
David E. Ferguson 10.00 Lomor E. Gohn 2.00 
Horry B. Horf 5.00 William B. Horn 5.00 
Robert W. Nickol 5.00 
Norbert W . Hart 5.0O Joseph E. Ince 15.00 
Fronk J. Noll, Jr 5.00 Oldeobnig 
ICshawoka John C. Hynej 5.00 Edward L. Keoting 10.00 
John J. O'Brien 5.00 
Edward H. Daley 25.00 George T. O'Connor.. 3.00 Russell H. Arndt 5.00 
Wm. S- MocDonald.... 5.00 David F. Korty 2.00 
Melville B. Mix 3.00 Kenneth F. Lows 25.00 
John C. O'Connor 5.00 C. V. Borone 3.00 
Orleons Thomos J. O'Connor... 5.00 Geo. V. Batchelor-1.00 
Charles M. Pteroni 5.00 Francis J. Murphy 25.00 Jomes P. Cloud...-3.00 
Frederick E. Watson 10.00 Lawrence A. O'Connor. 25.00 
Wm. S. O'Connor 10.00 Francis R. Beoudine 1.00 
James R. Osgood 5.00 Joseph A. Brody 5.00 
Michael T. Ricks 10.00 Pahicksbmg 
Nupponett 
Richard K. Owens 25.00 Albert J. Brosseur...... 5.00 
Chos. L. Voughon 162.50 
Henry A. Persyn 25.00 Robert A. Brucker 10.00 Robert L.Rensberger 5.00 Wm. O. Miller 1.00 
James E. Vaughon 137.50 
Richard J. Pfeiffer 5.00 John W. Conboy 2.00 William H. Garner, Jr.. 10.00 Frederick W . Pfortner.. 10.00 Robert F. Cook 5.00 
Peru 
LaPorte 

Clorence J. Pickord 5.00 Raymond L. DeCook 5.00 Hew Albany 5.00 Claude M. Pitsenberger. 5.00 Michael E. Derbin 5.00 Alfred F. Fries 100.00 
F. Clarence Bunce 25.00 
William J. Kaiser 3.00 
Francis J. Conboy 5.00 
L. Thos. PlouB, Jr 5.00 Frederick C. Doutet 10.00 Theodore C. Rodemoker. 50.00 John 10.00 
Chos. P. Marguet 10.00 
Tino J. Poggiani 5.00  P. Daley Robert J. Flury 10.00 Marvin E. Pinaire 2.00 Lourence 
Donold A. Potter 5.00  P. Rtzsimmons 5.00 Louis J. Friedman 5.00 Charles J. Schwartzel... 5.00 Ploinfield M 
Stanly W. 3.00  S. Janesheski... 10.00 40.00 
Cesare

 Pyritz Clarence H. Putter Gerard A. Schwartzel.. 10.00 5.00 Joseph F. Quill Richard Gonser 
4.00 Michoel J. Lohey 5.00  A. 5.00 
John C. Schwartzel 5.00 
Froncis J. Lonigan 5.00 
Joseph W. Quinion 10.00 Joy E. Gibson 5.00 
Ptymouth 

Howard D. Murdock... 15.00 
Francis B. Quinn 5.00 James F. Gormeley 1.00 New Carlisle 10.00 
Paul S. Rogon, Jr -.. 3.50 Albon M. Smith Robert A. Gresser 5.00 1.00 
I. E. Sandmies 5.00 Vincent F. Ball 10.00 
Michael B. Reddington.. 25.00 Robert A. Holmes 10.00 
Howard Hilles, Jr 20.00 

Lciwiencebiirg NewCosUe 25.00 
John F. Reis 5.00 Eugene D. Hull 5.00 
Trueman T. Rembusch.. 25.00 Jomes E. Bosco 5.00 Eugene S. Hutmocher.. 15.00 Patrick J. Lynch, Jr 5.00 
Wolter L. McDermott... 5.00 

James E. Rocop, Jr 5.00 Roger L. Fuetter 10.00 George J. Irwin 1.00 
4.00 

John T. Rocop 5.00 Elmer J. Komm 10.00 
5.00 

New BOM 
Robert L. Ross 5.00 Lebanon Gerald A. Komm 5.00 Horry J. Ryan 20.00 Wilber A. Komm 10.00 Robert G. Whitecotton.. 5.00 
John C. Cole 3.00 John M. Ryan 10.00 Edmund C. Kowolski... 15.00 
Princeton Ligonier Notre Dame 
Edword M. Sadowski... 5.00 Ronold A. Kronewitter. ..10.00 Francis J. Henneberger. 10.00 
Richord J. Schoger 5.00 Robert H. Lawrence 2.00 
Edword J. Boldinger.. 5.00 Alumni Assoc 2,500.00 
Arthur E. Miller 5.00 

Horry E. Scott 25.00 Alden E. Lenhord 10.00 
Redmond J. Allmon 2.00 
W. Lowrence Sexton 5.00 Richard E. Lenhord 5.00 
Linton Nicholas J. Amato 3.00 
Bendngton 

Jeremiah J. Shine 10.00 Dole E. Lovell 25.00 
Morcel J. Aucremonne.. 5.00 
Potrick F. Size 25.00 Richard E. Ball 1.00 
George R. Sippel 5.00 Peter H. Mokielski 10.00 Charles S. Peck 5.00 
Chos. M. Smith 5.00 George J. Moury 5.00 
Paul Byrne 20.00 
Logonsport 

J. Albert Smith 10.00 Joseph McCormick 5.00 Bensaelaet 
Charles M. Collohon... 2.00 
Paul J. Smith 100.00 Jas. E. Digan 25.00 John W. McDowell 5.00 Edward W. Rscher 5.00 
Angel J. Caporo 50.00 
Louis M. Somers 5.00 Leo F. Hendricks 10.00 Joseph J. McGuire..;. 2.00 
Thomas E.Cossidy 5.00 
James A. Spychalski 5.00 Edward T. Hickey 10.00 Michael J. McGuire 5.00 Bichmond 
Bernord A. Century 5.00 Frederick R. Stubbins, Jr. 10.00 Thomas L. Keefe 25.00 Carl C. Moore 5.00 
Roymond J. Donovan... 4.00 Jomes F. Horringto'n, Jr. 5.00 Wolter J. Stuhldreher.. 25.00 Thomas G. Medlond... John S. Mouros 
10.00 5.00 

George F. Driscoll 5.00 John R. Harrington 10.00 
G. Donold Sullivan 10.00 Lowrence P. Ricci 5.00 William G. Myers 5.00 
Earl R. Englert 5.00 Norman B. Jenkins 100.00 
John M. Sullivan 5.00 Harold J. Tuberty 5.00 Wm. P. O'Neill 25.00 
Joseph B. Farrell 10.00 James R. Luken 10.00 
Thomas M. Sweeney 2.00 Olen L. Forks 5.00 
Paul Fenlon 5.00 Charles M. Quigley 25.00 John J. Toolen 25.00 Henry B. Payne 10.00 
Lowell 

John C. Freemon 5.00 
Thomas J. Umphrey... 10.00 Richard J. Philion 5.00 Bochester 
Robert Cullen — 10.00 Thomas P. Goynor 3.00 
Joseph W. Vollmer.... 5.00 Charles E. Pieters 5.00 
Williom H. Grofe, Jr... 10.00 Hugh A. Bornhart 10.00 
Emil V. Ruge 15.00 
Joseph V. Walker 5.00 Jomes Ruif 10.00 
Kosper G. Groff 5.00 John A. Welch 5.00 John W. Schindler 5.00 Boiling Prairie 
James A. Harris 2.00 
John R. Welch 5.00 Marion Mrs. J. W . Schindler 40.00 
Louis L. Hosley 5.00 William M. Cannon 1.00 Lawrence J. Welch 10.00 10.00 John W. Schindler, Sr.. 10.00 
Francis X. Gortland, Jr. Jerome B Hayes 1.00 Charles W. DeGroote.. 5.00 James M. Gortland 25.00 
Thomos A. Welch 5.00 Thomos A. Schmidt 3.00 
John V. Hinkel 25.00 
Frederick P. Zietlow 5.00 Matthew 25.00 Clarence P. Schumacher. 10.00 Bushville 
F. Gortland... 

Ceroid J. Hoor 2.00 Philip J. 5.00 J. D. Sharp 5.00 
Kiley Vincent P. Hogon 5.00 Daniel F. Ryan 10.00 Ingolls Robert P. 5.00 Swift & Company-100.00 
Kiley Herbert E. Jones... 10.00 George J 5.00 Howard Thornton 5.00 ShelbyriUe 
Mrs. Earl Copeland 5.00 . Milford Edward 5. Kavonaugh.. 10.00 Robert L. Milford 2.00 Vere E. Trinkley 10.00 
John C. Killian, Jr 10.00 Francis J. Rehme ... 10.00 Jomes P. Mooney 5.00 Victor J. Trippel 10.00 
Jasper William G. Koch 5.00 
John T. 10.00 Leo P. Von Rie 100.00 Sonih Bend 
Rodemoker 

Thomas P. Madden 5.00 
Omer O. Sturm 5.00 
Robt. E. Williams 15.00 E. Spencer Walton 5.00 John P. McAndrews 10.00 Anonymous '. 500.C0 Arthur Wolf 5.00 
Rudolph E. Sturm 5.00 
Arthur L. Wagner 5.00 Robert H. McAuliffe 10.00 MoxAdler 20.00 John M. Wolf 10.00 
Michigan City Jomes E. McCarthy...... 25.00 Richard S. Albert 5.00 Louis A. Wolf 10.00 
Charles J. Mullin...... 5.00 Woyne D. Zeller 10.00 
Eentland William P. Burns 5.00 Jock D. Alexander 1.00 
Bev. John A. 
Arnold 0. Altmon 5.0O 

15.00 Edward W. Costello 5.00 
Rolph E. Bower Gilbert A. Zimmerman.. 2.00 Francis G. Fedder 25.00 O'Erien ,12,534.89 Herman S. Altman ^5.00 
John K. Zimmerman.... 10.00 Kewonna Lorenzo A. Glasscott... 10.00 Theodore V. Oppenheim 7.00 Nathan D. Altman 10.00 
Michael L. Hines, Jr... 10.00 Robt. E. Glosscott 25.00 
Posquate Pirchio ...... . 15.00 Richard J. Ames 5.00 Monticello 
John F. Plouff 5.00 Erwin C. Aranowski 20.00 Knox Francis J. Kubik 5.00 Robert E. Million 1.00 Wm. D. Bolliaoa _ 50.00 Alfred J. Artz 10.00 Robert J. Corey 2.00 John D. O'Neill 2.00 George R. Sullivan 5.00 Leo M. Rumely, Jr. 1.00 Victor C. Astone 6.00 
Williom H. Graham 5.00 
Regulor Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table, poges 9 to 17. 
Frederick K. Boer 5.00 Charles B. Creighton.. 1.00 Frederick B. Govern.... 5.00 Theodore A. Klosinski.. 50.00 Joseph J. Miler 5.00 Robert S. Bailey 5.00 Joseph Crepeau 10.00 John Graczol, Jr 1.00 Edmund J. Knight 25.00 Jos. P. Miller 25.00 
L. H. Boldinger 5.00 Francis E. Crosiar 1.00 Archibald G. Grohom.. 5.00 Eugene C. Knoblock.... 5.00 Mansel W. Miller 5.00 John M. Bannon 5.00 William J. Crotty 5.00 D. Chester Grant 15.00 Geo. T. Koch 10.00 Robert L. Miller 1.00 MorkJ. Bannon 5.00 J.J.Crowley 50.00 Robert A. Gront 200.00 Eugene E. Kochonowski. 5.00 Edward V. Minczeski... 5.00 Richard I. Borbier 5.00 James V. Cunningham, Jr. 3.00 Robert M. Grant 10.00 Horry F. Koehler, Jr.... 5.00 Samuel E. Molter 3.00 Leonard E. Borkowski... 5.0D James E. Curron 5.00 Victor R. Grayson 5.00 Michael R. Koken 5.00 John E. Monohon 5.00 
F. G. Barreda 20.00 John H. Cushman 5.00 James J. Green 5.00 Ladislaus A. Kolupa.... 35.00 Joseph P. Monohon.... 5.00 John W. Barry 5.00 William T. Daly 5.00 Thomas R. Grimes 10.00 John G. Kovatch 5.00 Emerit E. Moore 2.00 Gerold T. Borto 5.00 Laurence E. Danbom... 15.00 John E. Guendling 5.00 Chester A. Kowols..... 15.00 Francis E. Moron 10.00 Paul C. Bartholomew... 2.00 Orson D. Dousmon.... 5.00 Joseph J. Guentert.... 1.00 Edmund S. Kowolski.... 25.00 Ernest M. Morris... 11,850.00 William R. Bortlett 2.00 Jerome M. Davey 5.00 Froncis E.Gunter 2.00 Williom P. Kramer...". 10.00 John S. Moulder 3.00 George N. Beomer 20.00 Victor W. DeFrees 6.00 John B. Guthrie 1.00 Edw. P. Kreimer, Jr.... 15.00 Thomas C. Moynihon.. 5.00 James E. Beaudway 10.00 John F. Degnan 25.00 John M. Guthrie. Jr... 10.00 Marvin A. Krueger 5.00 Joseph F. Muellner 5.00 Horry P. Becker 30.00 Paul A. Dehmer 3.00 William F. Habermonn. 1.00 Robert O. Kuehl 2.00 William K. Mulvey 1.00 Melvin W. Belber 5.00 Frank A. Deitle 20.00 Charles F. Hafron, Jr... 15.00 Russell C. Kuehl. 5.00 Edward J. Murray 5.00 Emery A. Beres 5.00 James L. Delohonty.... 6.00 Edword C. Hager 5.00 Anthony S. Kuharich... 25.00 William B. Murray 3.00 Joseph A. Bergon 25.00 Thomas C. Delker 10.00 George D. Hagerty 25.00 Edward B. Kunkle 5.00 Eugene P. Mullen; 5.00 Sebastian T. Berner 35.00 Robert C. Delong 5.00 J. Arthur Haley 18.75 Aloysius L. Kuntz 1.00 John M. Murray 10.00 Victor J. Bernero 5.00 Arthur B. Demby 10.00 Robert J. Haley 5.00 Cornelius J. Kvasnok... 5.00 Joseph H. Nosh 3.00 Frederick J. Biggs 5.00 Louis J. Demer 5.00 John C. Halleck 1.00 Raymond A. LoForge.. 2.00 Paul E. Neville 10.00 Cecil E. Birder 10.00 George J. Despot 10.00 Joseph E. Hannan 5.00 James H. Lohey 5.00 Eller H. Newland 1,000.00 Williom H. Bodden 5.00 Charles E. DeWitt 5.00 Clarence W. Hording.. 10.00 Joseph J. Laiber 10.00 Joseph J. Newman 5.00 Joul F. Boehm 10.00 Arthur M. Diamond 2.00 John T. Harrington 5.00 Leslie H. Longe 3.00 Leo A. Newmon 10.00 John J. Bognor 7.00 Richard W. Dice 4.00 Falmore B. Harris 10.00 Walter M. Longford 35.00 Joseph S. Nowak 5.00 James F. Boland 5.00 Arthur J. Dietrich 5.00 L. Forrest Hazen 5.00 Joseph Wilton Lauber.. 10.00 Donald E. Nuner 1.00 James I. Bolond 10.00 Charles W. Dohnolek.. 10.00 Jos. W. Hennessy 5.00 Elton P. Lovenberg 5.00 Joseph M. Nyikos 5.00 Joseph M. Boland 5.00 John V. Donahue 10.00 Roymond A. Herrly 5.00 Jasper H. Lowton 211.00 Jos. W. Nyikos 30.00 Robert E. BonDuront 10.00 William W. Dominic... 15.00 John C. Heyvoert 10.00 John W. Leodbetter 10.00 Eugene L. O'Brien 100.00 David S. Borley 5.00 Joseph F. Donahue 25.00 Donold F. Hickey 30.00 Thomas J. Leahy...... 5.00 Edword A. Olczok 15.00 Charles C. Borowski 3.00 William R. Dooley 18.75 Gerald A. Hickey 35.00 Edw. W. Leon 5.00 George J. Oltsch 10.00 Leo R. Boyle 3.00 M. Edward Doran 25.00 John P. Hickey 5.00 John J. Lechner 15.00 Thomas E. Owens 50.00 Francis X. Bradley 5.00 Joseph P. Doyle 1.00 Louis J. Hickey 10.00 Robert L. Lehman 40.00 Paul V. Paden 10.00 Lucos H. Brandon 3.00 Walter L. Dray 3.00 Thomos L. Hickey 100.00 Martin J. Lentsch 5.00 Charles C. Palmer 5.00 John E. Brassell 5.00 Fred B. Dressel 10.00 Thomas L. Hickey, Jr... 35.00 Earl M. Leonhard 5.00 Nicholas J. Poppas 10.00 
• Joseph A. Braunsdorf... 4.00 Horry S. Driggs 5.00 Frank J. Hiss 25.00 James W. Lloyd 3.00 John A. Porchem 10.00 William H. Braunsdorf.. 5.00 John R. Droege 50.00 Leo J. Hoffman 10.00 Leo J. Loveft 40.00 Carl J. Paris 5.00 John E. Breen 10.00 Kenneth J. Durbin 5.00 Monto L. Holzworth 10.00 Heniy S. Lowenstine 25.00 J. Gregory Parker 6.00 Charles E. Brehmer 5.00 Charles P. Dutrieux 5.00 Frederick N. Hoover 5.00 Edmund J. Luther 50.00 J. Elmer Peok..: 50.00 John B. Brehmer 5.00 Donald J. Easley 5.00 Henry A. Hoover 5.00 Robert A. Macdonell.. 5.00 John N. Perkins 15.00 Patrick J. Brennon 5.00 Samson Eder 10.00 Robert J. Horenn...... 1.00 Julius E. Modvay 1.00 Thomas W. Perry 3.00 Walter F. Brodbeck.... 5.00 James A. Egan 10.00 Donald E. Hosinski 5.00 Charles W. Mogner.... 5.00 Charles J. Petretic 15.00 Max J. Brown 25.00 George M. Eichler 5.00 Edword J. Hosinski 50.00 Robert J. Mohoney 2.00 William V. Phelan 1.00 Louis V. Bruggner 20.00 Jacob Engel 25.00 William A. Hosinski 2.00 Clorence E. Manion 25.00 James G. Phillipotf 10.00 Robert J. Bryan 5.00 Robert F. Ervin 5.00 Robert L. Hosteller 8.00 Dewey Mann. Sr._ 10.00 Benjamin C. Piser 5.00 Cecilia B. Buechner 25.00 Edward R. Esch 2.00 John R. Houston 2.00 Thomas P. Marker 5.00 Anton Pojmon, Jr 3.00 Gilfred A. Burdick 5.00 Edward A. Everett 15.00 William P. Howard 5.00 Paul E. Marlatt 5.00 Armando J. Porta 45.00 Anselm S. Burkort 5.00 G. A. Farobough 100.00 Raymond A. Hoyer 5.00 John F. Marshall 5.00 Harry E. Poulin, Jr 5.00 Jacob E. Burke 3.00 John G. Farobough 5.00 Thomas E. Hoyer 1.00 John J. Martin 25.00 Horry E. Poulin, Sr 10.00 Poul M. Butler 100.00 Edward G. Forrell, Jr.. 5.00 Arthur L. Hubbard 5.00 Jos. C. Mason 5.00 John G. Poulin 5.00 Charles M. Butterworth. 10.00 Francis S. Forrington... 5.00 Aoron H. Huguenord... 100.00 Lee H. Mattes 35.00 Joseph E. Poulin 3.00 John N. Cockley, Jr.... 25.00 David M. Fefermon 2.00 Henzv D. Huldll 10.00 ^°' ' *• ^°**''« 5.00 Rollond J. Poulin 10.00 Robert M. Cohill 10.00 Arthur W. Feltes 10.00 M u ' t, -inn Fronts "• Maxwell 3.00 Arthur S. Prekowitz 5.00 David L. Campbell.... 5.00 John R. Feltes ^^pg Leo M. Humphrey ^.OQ ^^1^^ ^ ^ ^^^^ _ 3.00 R. Otto Probst 5.00 Edward P Carr 1.00 Paul A. Fergus 15.00 . ^-">'" " ™ Vernon D. McArdle.... 2.00 James F. Purcell 20.00 Lawrence E. Corr, Jr.... 5.00 Lawrence I. Ferguson.. 2.00 Louis E. Jacbon 10.00 Bernard J. McCaffery... 50.00 Edword R. Quinn 39.33 James A. Carrico 3.00 Donald W. Fisher 5.00 ^°''«'' •- Jowo'slt'---- 5.00 Joseph J. McCoffery.... 50.00 Louis A. Rodelet 10.00 
Louis J. Caruso 10.00 Hob't J. Rschgrund 100.00 ^"^'* *• •'=*'*" ^-^ Patrick J. McCartney... 25.00 Earl J. Redden. Ir._ 25.00 
Joseph J. Cosasonto.... 5.00 Richard L. Fogorty 5.00 James John Jodon 5.00 James P. McCourt 15.00 Charles S. Reddy 5.00 
Joseph R. Coton 5.00 Allen M. Foley 10.00 Al. W. Johannes 115.00 Lex E. McCoy 1.00 George D. Reed 10.00 
Louis C. Chapleou 100.00 Thomas E. Foley 2.00 John H. Johannes 5.00 Williom H. McCullough 35.00 Thomas E. Reed 15.00 
Richard J. Chapleou... 5.00 Robt. B. H Forbes..... 1.00 CI""'' " J-^°'"'" 5.00 Albert McGonn 110.00 Nelson L. Reese 5.00 
Alexis T. Cholis 5.00 Herbert E. Forster 30.00 G. Francis Jones 25.00 Frank T. McGuire 35.00 C. David Reid 25.00 
Gustov J. Cholis 3.00 Maurice N Frank 2.00 ^'" ^ ^- """"^ ^^'"^ Arnold M. Mclnerny.... 5.00 Lawrence A. Reister.... 5.00 
Nicholas P. Cholis 5.00 Eorle F. Frarey 5.00 ^^i l E. Jordon 5.00 Williom F. Mclnerny.... 10.00 John E. Reith 5.00 
Louis R. Chreist, Jr. .. 10.00 Lewis J. Fricke 5.00 '^°'^^ •'• ^°'^°" ^'"^ John E. Mclntyre 100.00 Mr . and Mrs. Am-
John A. Chrismon 25.00 Louis C. Fritch 55 QQ Herman R. Judd 2.00 Andrew J. McKay 1.00 brose L Bice 10.00 
Benedict J. Chung 5.00 Robert J. Frost 5.00 Jos- A. Judie, Sr 300.00 Robert J. McKee 1.00 John T. Rice 5.00 
Juan Enrique Gntron... 5.00 William J. Furey 20.00 "'"ord C. Koczmorek.. 15.00 Joseph c. McMonus.... 5.00 W. A. Rice 17.50 
Donald H. Cloeys 5.00 Edward R. Gallagher... 3.00*'''"*'^°'''^°' ™ 5.00 chorles E. McNeil 5.00 Ronald E. Rich 5.00 
Jerome Cloeys, Jr 150.00 Richard J. Gorab 3.00 A"^™ •'• '^°'^" '-^ Robert J. Meagher.... 1.00 Elton E. Richter 60.00 
Daniel A. Clark 25.00 Irving Gornitz JQQQ Dan.el F. Kolczynski... 10.00 Ed„. j . Meehon 25.00 Leo P. Rieder 5.00 
Stanley A. Clark _ 400 00 Eugene L. Geyer 1.00 i" ^'"'° " Koufer .... 30.00 Jas. R. Meehon 35.00 Arnold R. Rivkin 2.00 
^ . ,, William J. Gibbons.... 10.00 Edgar L. Kovonough.... 5.00 Fernando L. Mendez.... 5.00 Robert K. Rodibaugh.. 5.00 
Corwm S. Clatt 5.00 j„„ b „ . Gilbert , „ (,„ B. J. Kozm.erczok 30.00 Edward H. Merrill, Jr... 5.00 Wm. F. Roemer 4.00 
^mesT. Clouss 3.00 p^^ j) Qabert _ 200 00 ^™ " ^ '^^°''"? ^•""' Ffoncis M. Messick 15.00 Otis S. Romine 5.00 
Fred J. Clements 4.50 R;,hard J. Gillen 25.00 Raymond G. Keiser.... 15.00 Robert J. Meulemon.... 20.00 Stephen H. Ronoy 5.00 
Menefee R. Clements... 10-00 jjiggHogg CnUi g JQ QQ Doniel J. Kelly, Jr 5.00 Ferdinand E.Miholich, Jr. 50.00 Irving H. Rosenbaum... 5.00 
Walter L Clements.... 10-00 ^has. J. Glueckert 500 Fronk Kelly 10.00 Godfrey V. Miholich...! 25.00 John Wm. Roth 1.00 
motTSh r ^^,™ George T. emitter 5.00 J°^" P-^="'' 1.00 Matthew J. Miholick, Jr. 5.00 Roymond L. Roy 10.00 
r. f V .-J ^•™ Pn„l R rWnllpi Carl F. Kemps 10.00 Dallos A. Milem 5.00 Peter P. Rucono 1.00 Wolter T. Condon 5.00 ^°"',^-°°''!!'"'-;-.--" ^^^ R'^hord L. Kilmer 2.00 Fronk Miles 30.00 Edward J. Ruetz 55.00 Charles E. Cooney.... 5.00 Rudolph A. Goepfnch.. 30.00 Karl G. King, Jr 5.00 Calix E. Miller 5.00 Joseph H Ruetz 75.00 
Alexis Coquillard 40.00 Rollond W. Goheen.... 25.00 Paul J. Kiszeli 10.00 Glen E. Miller 10.00 Raymond J. Ruetz 77.00 Joseph A. Coquillard... 100.00 James P. Gooley 5.00 Zigmund H. Kitkowski.. 5.00 Harold A. Miller 5.00 Robert E. Russell 5.00 William P. Cosgrove... 1.00 Noel H. Gottesman 2.00 Edwin A. Klarecki 5.00 Joseph E. Miller 10.00 William F. Ryan 30.00 
Regular Foce Type—^Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City ond state totals will be found in the Master Toble, pages 9 to 17. 
William E. Voor 200.00 Whiting OmaaSMcex. MdAI* Bo^ Edward F. Voorde 15.00 
5.00 Robert J. Saggau 40.00 Raymond G. Kingef/.. 1.00 
Geo. J. Wack 3.00 

10.00 Morris Wagner 2.00 
10.00 DasMoinaa 
Wayne F. Wahl 15.00 car .
25.00 

Carleton D. Beh 25.00 
John F. Woldron 5.00 Charles J. Casey....... 25.00 
Walter J. Keckich 5.00 

E. H. Birmingham 30.00 
Francis Walerko 3.00 Richard D'. Casey...... 10.00 .
Raymond J. Lennertz... 10.00 

C. John Forge 5.00 
Joseph A. Walsh 20.00 Michoel L Mason ; 25.00 
Jeremiah A. McCarthy.. 100.00 

Louis F. Kurtz 10.00 
Lloyd G. Waterson 15.00 
William J. Obermtller.. 5.00 

Robert B. Kurtz 5.00 Mbaiicallo William A. Weiler 5.00 
25.00 

Lenihon L. Lolly 50.00 
Seymour H. Weisberger. 3.00 Paul R. loeher........ 5.00 
5.00 

S. F. McGina 1,000.00 
Charles F. Weiss 25.00 Simon E. Lochcr 5M 
Frederick G. Neu 10.00 
Gordon E. Weist 1.00 
Winamac 

Harold C. Neu 10.00 
Forrest R. West 1.00 MoscotiiM 

10.00 Edward R. Posner 15.00 
James E. White 15.00 Robert B. Jehring 15.00 
Jamei C. Show 25.00 
Earnest J. Wilhelm 3.00 
Robt. L. Roach 50.00 

Vnnchester JohnW. Sievert 5.00 
Richard D. Willemin.... 19.00 
Rolph S. Welch 10.00 

John T. Stark 5.00 
Edward J. Fitzmaurice.. 10.00 

Robert F. Wilson 5.00 
John E. Wessels .10.00 

Robert J. Tiernan 3.00 
William J. Wishing.... 3.00' 
Joseph E. Whalen 15.00 
Ralph D. Witt 5.00 li0w HcnnplQii 
F. MorcellusWonderlin. 2.50 
Milo E. Wolf 5.00 
lowo J. F. Kennedy 25.00 
Chester W. Woodka... 20.00 
Aiton Dnncombe Walter J. Kennedy.... 10.00 
Frank V. Woodward... 25.00 
William M. Clemens, Jr. 5.00 
Harry F. Wunsch 5.00 10.00 
Louis F. Faulsch 5.00 Newton Edward P. Wurtzebach. 10.00 
Allen E. Young Algona Robert H. Kenline 10.00 James E. Goltogher.. 10.00 
 5.00 

Edward D. Kopshever... 5.00 
Joy A. Young 1.00 W. Wade Sullivan... 7.00 
Louis C. Mojerus 5.00 - OUunwoi Daniel J. Youngermon.. 5.00 
Richard V. McKoy, Jr... 5.00 
Earl M. Zerbe 10.00 Ames Dennis G. Emanuel 20.00 
Thomas H. Nelson 3.00 
Leo S. Zgodzinski 5.00 Linus C. Niemeyer -. -10.00 
Mark J. Walsh 5.00 

Albin A. Rhomberg 10.00 
Mondell S. Ziegler...!. 5.00 
Louis A. Rhomberg 10.00 
Richard F. Zilky 25.00 Paerta 
Audubon 

Jos. A. Rhomberg 10.00 
Abraham O. Zoss 10.00 
Brother Sebostian .... . 5.00 

William H. Halloren... 15.00 James A. Schmid 5.00 Thomas B. Schmid 25.00 
Syracuse 
PMXT 

Bauer William T. Schmid 5.00 
George W . Bryan 5.00 
Nicholas J. Sutton 5.00 Daniel E. Honnan, Jr... 5.00 
Rev. Harry Ryan 15.00 

Templeton 
Burlin^on Duncomb* Pocohontcs 
Paul J. Kennedy 25.00 
Edward W. Doiley 10.00 Johi) W. Brown 10.00 Howard J. Shimon 5.00 
John A. Doiley 5.00 

Terre Haute Bodcwell 
Fronk J. Delaney, Jr.... 10.00 Emmet^mg 
Frederick G. Christman,Jr. 15.00 
Richard H. Delaney 10.00 Edw. D. Kelly 25,00 Claire V. Hansen...... 5.00 Raymond J. Keorns; 50.00 Louis F. Lauth, Jr 1.00 Louis F. Keifer lOCi.OO 
Evald M. Rodin 5.00 Essex Sergeant Blnit Maurice N. hJeville 15.00 
^^I^Q] } Wayne R. Johnson 1.00 Kelly F. Cook 5.00 
Edward J. O'Dea 10.00 James L. Sullivan 10.00 
Robt. J. Dolezol 10.00 EstherriH. 
Sioux CStt 

Richard W. Kisgen 10.00 Tipton Jos. J. Meyers 10.00 E"'' D-^9°" 5.00 
Philip A. Donohue 5.00 Raymond B. Duggan.... 5.00 

Mark A. Ertel 1.00 
Cedar Rapids Fonda Arthur L. Kelly 10.00 
R. Nicholas Lamberto.. 5.00 

Valparaiso John J. Loeher, Jr 5.00 Ed. J. Mullen 15.00 Robert A. Manning 2.00 
Robert C. Loeher 3.00 

James J. Comeford 5.00 
John L. Mulhall 5.00 

John R. Murray 10.00 Fort Atkinson 
Melvin G. Meyers 5.00 
Michael P- Noonon 20.00 

Edward J. Ryan 10.00 Hubert A. Schimberg... 10.00 Arthur F. Huber 10.00 John F. Planlop 5.00 
August T. Scolaro 20.00 

Vinceimes Fori Dodge Spirit Lake 
Cherokee 

Paul H. Brokhoge 25.00 Thos. Heoly 25.00 Jackson L. Sigler 15.00 
Donald H. Brocken.,.. 25.00 

John F. Conrod 5.00 Thomas S. Welch 10.00 
Watarioo 

B. J. Dognaux 50.00 Clear Lake 
10.00 5.00 
Richard J. Dora 

James E. Newman 5.00 Fort Madison Chas. B. Lenahan 10.00 
5.00 

Richard J. Kern....:... 25.00 
James D. McQuaid... 25.00 Clinton Robert L. McGannon.. 10.00 
Robert R. Phelan 50.00 

10.00 John E. Murphy 5.0O Harry J. Schroder, Jr... 2.00 
Lyie E. Miller 

3.00 Wareriy 
Ralph H. Simon 
Edword C. Walsh, Jr... 5.00 
10.00 

Iowa City 
Wabash Davenport 10.00 Charles P. Schwinn 8.00 Humphrey L Leslie 20.00 
John L. Martin 1.00 
Jerome C. Arnold 25.00 John C. Yavorsky 5.00 William B. Mooney.... 20.00 John J. Bishop 5.00 
WaUcerton 
West DesMon* 

Ralph J. Ehr 5.00 Keoknk 
Charles E. Greene, Jr... 6.00 
Alfred T. Erskine, Jr... 5.00 Joseph C. Zuendel, Jr.. 5.00 
John C. Cameron 5.00 
Morcellus J. Geerts lO.OO 

John W . Walker 10.00 
West Pont 

Warsaw Joseph J. Gerwe, Jr... 10.00 
D. J. Hickey, III 10.00 Joseph C. Bergthold 2.00 
J. Vincent Smyth 5.00 
Lansing 
Thomos P. McCarthy... 2.00 Henry M. McCullaugh.. 2.00 Gustav. M. Kemdt 1,500.00 
Washington 
John F. McDonnell 5.00 

Rev. Francis R. Allega.. 2.00 Kansas 
Lawrence A. Mullins 5.00 

Laurens 
Bernard D. Heffernan.. 25.00 Abilene. 
Cyril U. Nolan 5.00 

James R. Hakes 5.00 
Roger W. Nolan 5.00 Frederick A. Cans..' 5.00 
West Lafayette Richard B. Swift....... 30.00 LeMois AxkonaoB Ct r 
Joseph S. Dienhart 5.00 G. W. Vander Vennet. 5.00 Robert L. Zubras 5.00 Henry C. Wurzer 150.00 Murle W. Klohs 10.00 Burt J. Holl...: 10.00 
Francis J. Sanfilippo... Wayne N. Schaop Edward O. Scheer Arthur A. Schellinger.. 
F. Armand Schellinger.. Vincent E. Schirf 
Hennan A. Schmidt 
George A. Schock John A. Schreyer Lawrence P. Schubert.. Fronklin C. Schuell..... Samuel D.<Schulman... Robert J. Schultz John A. Scott 
R. Floyd Searer 
EU F. Seibirt 
Antoinette J. Semortier. 
Robert E. Shade 
Norman D. Sha.Tibleau. Harry S. Shcolnik Gerald M. Shea John H. Sheehan William F. Sheehan.... 
William J. Sherer 
Beniamin M. Sheridan.. Walter L. Shilts John C. Shively Donald P. Siegel Kurt G. Simon 
J. Clyde Simons 
JohnE. Skelly 
John F. Slater 
William E. Slowey Donald H. Smith 
Edward J. Smith Knowles B. Smith Andrew Smithberger .. . Eugene A.'Sniogor James W. Snyder Neil C. Snyder, Jr Clement T. Sobecki 
Bcdph S. SoUitt— 5.000.00 
Harold R. Solomon 5.00 Edwin H. Sommerer, Jr.. 5.00 Edwin H. Sommerer; Sr... 5.00 
 1.00  5.00  25.00  3.00  5.00  5.00 
 15.00 
 10.00  20.00  25.00  5.00  25.00 
 15.00  5.00  5.00 
 500.00 
 5.00 
 5.00 
 10.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  25.00 
 3.00 
 10.00  5.00 
 15.00  5.00  2.00  5.00 
 20.00 
 10.00 
 2.00  15.00 
 5.00  15.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  2.00  20.00 
Francis H. Sosnoski .. . Edward W. Stanton Richard J. Steffaniak... Mort S. Stettauer Paul S. Stokely George S. Stratigos Williom H. Strycker.... Joseph R. Sullivan 
Anonymous 
Emery W.Suth 
Robert M. Sweeney 
Wolter A. Sweitzer, Jr.. 
Frank G. Swonk 
Ernest A. Szekely Joseph A. Tansey Louis J. J. Tansey Harold F. Tehon 
Harry T. Thilman_ 
Maurice J. Thornton.... 
Thos. R. Thune Burton E. Toepp Marvin L. Tomber.. John L. Toole Andrew A. Toth Robert Towner John C. Treacy Stanley J. Tsalikis Thomas J. Tsiolis ,. 
Wiliiam P. Tsiolis 
Maurice M. Tulchinski.. Wm. W. Turner Robert C. Uhl Joseph D. Usina 
 5.00  6.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00 
 150.00 
 10.00  10.00 
 10.00 
 20.00  3.00  5.00  5.00  1.00 
 5.00  50.00 
 15.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00 
 10.00  5.00  5.00 
 2.00 
 5.00  5.00  10.00  5.00 
George C. Ussher, Jr... 10.00 Arthur J. Verhoestra.... 10.00 George W. Vesey, Jr... 10.00 Nicholas Joseph Villoroso 2.00 
John T. Voedisch  50.00  
Nelson J. Vogel  5.00  
Bernard  J. Voll  1,000.00  


Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17., 
Atchiwn Vf^ehiia George B. Barrett 5.00 P«wa« VoUay Bangor John W. Hoyes 10.00 Jesse C. Harper 50.00 Joseph M. McGee 10.00 Clementine E. Constontine 5.00 
Emil A. Besfen 5.00 
Frank B. Bloemer, Jr.. 125.00 

Charles S. McKeIvy, Jr.. 5.00 Jrimes D. Hereford.... 1.00 
Fronds D. McKeIvy 7.00 Theodor P. Jochems 15.00 William N. Bosler 15.00 ' ftosped Portland John B. Long 10.00 
Bernard F. Bowling 45.00 

Robert N. Wothen.... 25.00 John U. Riley 25.00 BcDCter Springs Cleo E. Melcher 25.00 J. Paul Scully, Jr 25.00 
Fronk H. Breslin 50.00 Joseph L. Buckler 3.00 

Arthur J. Kane 20.00 A. A. Rosenberger 25.00 Solyersville 
Thomos E. Bulleit 5.00 
Waterville 

Frank P. May 5.00 Bonnei Springs Norman C. Trembley.. 5.00 
Chorles H. Buschemeyer . .5.00 

John B. Buschemeyer... 10.00 Williom T. Covonough.. 1.00 Kentucky Shelbyville 
John C. Carney 10.00 James C. Corrico 5.00 William P. Deiss 5.00 
Winthrop 
Elsmore 

James J. Casper 10.00 Gerard J. Zeiller 5.00 William K. Clark 1.50 Bordstown Norvin L Casper 125.00 West Point Oliver R. McCloran 10.00 J. B. Atcber 2.00 
Jos. E. Costello 25.00 Harper Joseph F. Cullen 5.00 
Thomas M. McGinnis.. 5.00 
Maryland

5.00 John P. Dont, Jr 15.00 
James E. Larrick, Jr Clifford W . Doll 10.00 Baltimore Jesse L. Doll 125.00 
Bowling Green 
Louisiana

Hays Julian V. Durbin 5.00 100.00 
Joseph F. Donaldson... 10.00 

Alexandria 3.00 Edword J. Dowd 5.00 
Daniel J. Arnhold 25.00 
25.00 John P. Forsee 5.00 
Buechel Thomas C. David 4.00 
4.00 

HiattviUe George F. Dwyer 10.00 Edward J. Gloser 5.00 
William R. Gates 5.00 
5.00 

Joseph G. O'Bryon 30.00 
Patrick S. Greene 10.00 
Raymond J. Dempsey.. 5.00 

Central City Baton Bouge 
Ralph G. Greer 10.00 

Anthony P. Donodto, Jr. 5.00 Tobe M. Gish 10.00 John J. Guthrie 20.00 
Hutchinson Richard E. Kelley 10.00 5.00 Don A. Welchons 25.00 J. Kenneth Hammond.. 7.50 
Covington 5.00 
Covington Mr. and Mrs. John Roger D. Gustafson 5.00 Jamestown Mr. and Mrs. W. A. M. Hennessy 10.00 Hubert S. Gallagher 5.00 William W. Horfman.. 15.00 Ralph E. Johnson 1.00 Middendorf 25.00 10.00 
Louis J. Hollenboch, Jr. 105.00 

William B. Middendorf. 10.00 Roger J. Huter 25.00 Lako Charles 25.00 Jetmore James M. Ingram 15.00 William 5.00 
Floyd J. Vincent..;.... 10.00  L. Jacobs, Jr... 
Danville Norman L. Johnson 10.00 Joseph V. Zimmerman.. 5.00 Benedict J. Joskoski.... 5.00 John M. Keaney, Jr.... 10.00 
Woyne A. Shriwise 5.00 
10.00 Wm. P. KeUy 100.00 10.00 
Philip J. Clarke 25.00 
Junction City Metoire 
Edward E. Matthews... 10.00 Jesse R. Wood 60.00 
Eminence Earl J. Dean, Jr 5.00 5.00 John W. McKenno 15.00 Tliomos J. McCreedy, Jr. 5.00 
Ernest R. McClure 10.00 
James L. Meagher 10.00 
John E. McSweeney 10.00 

Kansas City Now Orleans 
Otto J. Mileti, Jr 5.00 

James H. Murray, Jr 5.00 Vincent W. DeCoursey.. 25.00 Ft IiCtcheU BcrfE. Montgomery 100.00 Richard L. Aheorn 1.00 Harry F. O'Brien 5.00 
Russell C. Hordy 25.00 John B. Brinker 5.00 Wm. C. Moorehead 5.00 
William E. Cassidy 5.00 
50.00 

Roland A. Chiara 5.00 
Vincent J. Little 5.00 I Charles T. Moron 10.00 John G. Prendergost 10.00 William J. Motson 10.00 Fronkfort Edward P. Moron 10.00 Edgar A. Corey 10.00 
5.0O Graham J. Owens 15.00 Charles G. Morrow 10.00 
Francis P. Cosgrove 5.00 
James P. Honrohon 10.00 William B. Smith...... 10.00 William J. Shorp, Jr... 5.00 Raymond Nober 5.00 Francis E. David, Jr 10.00 
Arthur R. Kernen 5.00 10.00 Daniel F. Scherrer, Jr... 5.00 Vincent A. Nagel 35.00 Charles E. de la Vergne 5.00 
5.00 

Jules K. de la Vergne.. 10.00 
Charles E. Nevils 5.00 Joseph F. Dohon 10.00 
Harlan 10.00 
Leorenworth Cornelius J. Pfeiffer 15.00 
5.00 
Edward R. Morgan 

5.00 Mrs. Katbeiine 
Daniel F. Foley 20.00 Edw. H. Pfeiffer 10.00 5.00 
B. Diuex 1,000.00 
Edwin J. Holmon 5.00 Raymond L. Pfeiffer 10.00 Frederick A. Trenkle 10.00 
Henderson 

William B. Dreux 25.00 
Thomas T. Reyburn 5.00 Morns J. Pope 7.00 Harold A. Williams.... 25.00 Corl B. RoHermon 5.00 
George E. Delker 10.00 F. Joseph Drolla 10.00 
John J. Delker 10.00 James E. Fovret 20.00 
Nekoma LeeS. Reod, Jr 10.00 Bel Air 
Leonard E. Golely, Jr... 50.00 Francis A. Moron 20.00 Adolph J. Pons, Jr 30.00 
William A.Reisert, Jr... 5.00 

Kenton Hills John W . Hopkins 2.00 
Robert E. Soss 50.00 
30.00 

William H. Johnston 10.00 
Robert H. Bischoff 5.00 Eugene J. Steuerle 10.00 
Paolo 

Mrs. BessieB. Lewis 500.00 James H. Clemens. 15.00 
M. F. Sullivan 25.00 
Bethesda 

Lackey Paul J. Tafel, Jr 20.00 Kevin M. O'Gorman 3.00 A.J. Pilney 10.00 
3.00 
Jacques M. Veenemon.. 5.00 

George E. Evans, Jr... 10.00 
Poisons Terence J. Smith 10.00 George C. Howord, Jr.. 15.00 
Robert L. Veenemon 5.00 

John C. Cole 10.00 Lebonon William H. Veenemon, Jr. 5.00 Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr 25.00 Joseph E. Cole ... . 10.00 Joseph L. Wothen 10.00 Harold D. Sporl Catonsville 
 25.00 

John T. Boldrick 4.00 Erwin J. Weiler, Jr 5.00 Albert L. Vitter, Jr 10.00 Rev. Edwin J. Schneider. 250.00 Pittsburg Lenngton Richard E. Welch 5.00 Victor J. Wojcihovski... 10.00 James J. Keegon 10.00 Bernard J. Bloemer 25.00 Joseph L. Willenbrink.. 10.00 Plaquemine Paul L. Clark 10.00 William J. Woerner.... 10.00 Victor J. Kurzweg, Jr... 10.00 Chevy Chase Pratt Francis E. Crowley 5.00 Thomas P. Heoly 10.00 
Corl E. Zimmerer 5.00 

Theodore W. Havely.. 5.00 Sbreveport William B. Jones 10.00 Francis J. Quinn 10.00 Ludlow Arthur R. Carmody 25.00 Benj. F. Russell 10.00 Victor J. Martzel 10.00 College Pork Lester J. Kurt 25.00 
Solino Jeremiah J. Sullivan 5.00 John T. Shouse 50.00 Joseph Edward McKean. 25.00 Jomes H. Neu 15.00 
John D. Cohill 5.00 
Joseph R. Thornburg 5.00 Jos. R. Nowery 50.00 
John E. Carlin 15.00 Maysville 
James L. Vollely 5.00 John E. Nowery 50.00 
Cumberland 

George W . Cole 25.00 John F. O'Donnell 20.00 Joseph A. Ryan 15.00 Chos. F. Burke, Jr _ 100.00 
Idvennore ToUulah 
Albert J. Schwartz 10.00 Francis G. Feeney 5.00 
Edw. G. Lindemonn 5.00 Newport James M. Gilfoil 5.00 
Chos. L Schwoitz 25.00 Paul R. Martin 25.00 
James G. Meyer 10.00 
Thomas G. Muehlenkomp 5.00 
Edward J. Mattingly 10.00 

Norbert F. Skelley 25.00 
Thibodoux 
Louisville James O. Knoblock.. 
5.00 

Owensboro Greenbelt 
Topeka 

Pierre V. Angermeier.. 10.00 Virgil T. Dreiling 10.00 Henry B. Asmon 20.00 
Hugh P. Aud 25.00 Joseph L. Rtzmaurice... 5.00 Paul W. Nurd 10.00 John S. Hellenthol 5.00 
Glenn F. Aubrey 50.00 
Maine

Warn Marie A. Sbinn 25.00 Edward C. Aubrey 300.00 Paducah Walter A. Stevens 10.00 Laurence J. Aubrey 5.00 John F. Bray 25.00 Augusta Potuxent Biver tec V. Turgeon 5.00 John W. Bannon 15.00 Joseph C. Dudley 5.00 Roland E. DeCoteou 25.00 Robert J. Martina. 10.00 
Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 fo 17. 
Silver Spring 
Thomas L. McKevitt 20.00 
Robert J. Mullen 15.00 
Edward J. O'Brien; Jr.. 10.00 Joseph H. Regan 3.50 Robert J. Vicars 10.00 
Tokoma Park 
John F. Honifin 10.00 
""'T, ''; ^'i','?;" „.5-?? 
David A. Wolsh 937.50 
Volley Lee 
John A. Van Dike 5.00 
MossocAuseffs 
Abington 
Joseph M. Corcoran 10.00 
Adams 
Joseph A. Wilk 10.00 
Allston 
John D. Broderick 5.00 
Arlington 
Robert E. Donovon 25.00 
Athol 
Raymond A. Dubriske... 10.00 
Attleboro 
Raymond U. Kelllher... 5.00 John P. Moguire 10.00 Robert J. Nolan 260.00 
Auburn 
John F. Guilloume 10.00 
Ayer 
William H. Tucker, Jr.. 5.00 
Belmont 
Jomes R. Skohan 10.00 Joseph P. Sullivan 25.00 
Boston 
John N. Duffey 25.00 John R. Herbert 25.00 Charles A. Hufnogel 10.00 Edward Joseph Keelan.. 5.00 Francis R. MocCouley.. 10.00 
John V. Moron 10.00 William E. Oehler 3.00 
John F. Sounders 100.00 Edgor H. Stroot, Jr 5.00 Robert N. Sullivan 25.00 Ralph M. Turner 10.00 
Brointree 
John J. Morrison , 5.00 
Brighton 
John P. Connelly 5.00 
Brockton 
Hugh F. Blunt 25.00 
Bidiard I. Collan S.OO 
Alfred W . Dombrosky.. 15.00 James C. Givren 25.00 Carl J. Monocelli 10.00 
Cambridge 
Chorles F. Crowley 25.00 Cummings M. Giardino. 5.00 William M. Healy, Jr... 10.00 John F. Kelleher 5.00 William Q. Keenon 5.00 
Chorlestewn 
William G. O'Hore, Jr.. .5.00 

 Chestnut Hill 
 Joseph A. Gortlond, Jr. 10.00 
Chicopee 
Roymond P. Snyder 25.00 Carroll B. Murphy 5.00 
 Clinton 
 j^^n F. Burke 25.00 
'°^" T- Burke 50.00 
Martin J. Solmon 5.00 
Dorchester . 
Bernard F. Fallon 1.00 Robert J. Fallon 5.00 Francis X. Guindon 10.00 
Fall Hirer 
Thomas S. Collins 10.00 Robert L. Carpenter 10.00 
Most Bev. lames E. Cassidy 20.00 
James H. Coogan 25.00 William F. O'Neill.... 15.00 Frank B. Welsh 5.00 
Fitchburg 
G. WilmoH Brown 5.00 
Fromingham 
Walter-F. Noonon 5.00 
FronUin 
Albert P. Stello 2.00 
Great Banington 
William F. Flaherty.... M.OO 
Greenfield 
Vincent P. Coppelluzzo. 5.00 
Hampden 
Notbert A. Neffinger.. 2.00 
Haverhill 
Henry G. Armitoge... 25.00 
Holyolce 
William H. Grady 10.00 Earnest L. Landry 10.00 Chorles J. O'Connell... 10.00 Daniel J. O'Connell.... 5.00 James M. Regan 1.00 Ulric J. Ruell 25.00 John F. Shea 25.00 William J. Welch 5.00 
Hyannis 
Vincent D. O'Neil 25.00 
Lawrence 
 John C. Bresnohon 2.00 Jomes R. Dooley 25.00 Albert A. Mulreony 25.00 
Lee 

William A. Clorke, Jr... 5.00 
Littleton 
Joseph P. Sullivon.Jr... 5.00 
Lowell 
Chester P. MacDonald.. 25.00 John D. Murphy 5.00 James L. O'Dea 2.00 
Lynn 

Edward D.'Collohan.... 5.00 Francis J. Dancewicz... , 5.00 George J. Moriorty 5.00 
Maiden 
Doniel J. Quinlon Edward J. Reynolds.... 
Mullupon 
William J. Corey 
Medlord 
John J. Honley 
Michael B. Manzo 
Melrose 
James A. Day -.... 
Benjamin C. Pollard 
Methuen 
William Barry 
HCUord 
James F. Cooney Jomes A. Higgiston Cyril F. Kellett Poul L. lolly Wendell T. Phillips.... Loring P. Webber 
ICIion 
Joseph F. Kinneoley.... Thomas F. Kinneoley... 
Monson 
John R. Murphy 
Ne w Bedford 
Joseph J. Sullivon 
Newton • 
Albert 1. Thomas Edmund G. Dolton, Jr... Jomes H. Newmon 
Northampton 
John E. Flynn... Donald D. Sullivan Donald A. Teahon 
North Andover 
Jos. R. Dooley 
North Sdtuate 
William J. Forrell 
Peabody 
Daniel J. Boyle 
Pembroke 
Frederick C. Solori, Jr.. 
Pittsfield 
Bernard F. Brehl James J. O'Brien 
Quincy 
John S. Borry Chorles M. Gallagher.. Frederick A. Parker Nello A. Solvati 
Boslindale 
John F. Dorcy 
David T. Meskill 
Somerville 
Charles A. Crowley.... William T. While 
Sonlhbiidga 
Rev. Martin S. Honyz... 
 25.00  50.00 
 5.00 
 5.00  5.00 
 25.00  5.00 
 5.00 
 10.00  4.00  10.00  5.00  300.00  5.00 
 110.00  110.00 
 1.00 
 3.00 
 5.00  30.00  15.00 
 6.00  25.00  20.00 
 100.00 
 5.00 
 10.00 
 25.00 
 5.00  5.00 
 5.00  5.00  2.00  1.00 
 10.00  15.00 
 10.00  5.00 
 50.00 

Spriagfiald Allan F. Bride....;..... 3.00 
Wm. P. CoUina 300.00 
Charles B. Drew....... 125.00 Patrick E. Granfield 5.00 William J. Gronlitld... 300.00 Michael L. Houlohan... 4.00 William A. Hurley 35.00 Thomas J. Mitchell I.OO Joseph W . O'Neill 5.00 James E. Quinn.. 2.00 
Stonohom 
James J. Forrest.... S.OO John F. Landry 10.00 
Swompscott 
William J. Thompson.. 2.00 R. Wilcox 10.00 
Taunton 
John F.CIeory.... 5.00 Charles F. Colton 25.00 Edward J. Dahill 5.00 John F. Henchy 20.00 
Uzbridge. 
John F. Baker 5.00 
Wohhon 
George J. McQuiston.. 5.00 
War* 
George E. McGroth 2.00 
Wolextewa Joseph D. Wallace 2.00 
Wellesley Oils 
Francis E. Schlueter 35.00 
WeUesIey 
John S. Voughon 5.00 
Weatfield Thomas F. Ferriter 5.00 Arthur D. Maddolena, Jr. 10.00 
WesiNewtoa 
Arthur T. McMonmon... 10.00 
West Bexbuzy 
Lawrence J. Tiemey 10.00 
Watt Springfield 
Angelo B. Bertelli.. 5.00 
John H. Specht 20.00 
West Stodbridg* 
John J. Troy 5.00 
whitnon 
Edward F. Monohon 10.00 
\Knachester 
James F. Bowdren, Jr.. S.OO A. Brock Lynch 20.00 Paschal A. Tofuri 5.00 
Winthiep 
Warren A. Davis 5.00 
Wobnni 
Robert J. Brennan 5.00 Jarres H. Murray 25.00 
Worchester  
Francis A. Consolali  5.W 
Paul  W .  Cummings  25.00 

Edmund F.Goldsmith... 5.00 
James T. Horgan 5.00 
Edw. J. McGauley 25.00 
Miekigaa 
Adrian 
Robert R. Cooney 10.00 
AlUott 
E. Fred Wolter 10.00 
Algonoe 
 Frederick E. Lentz 2.00 
Afana 
Michael H. Corgan 10.00  Joseph F. Davey 15.00 J. Howard Holey 25.00 
Alpena 
F. J. O'Donnell 20.00 Claude R. Yockey 10.00 
Ana Arbor 
James C Andrews 1.00 James.A. Johnson 2.00 Richard C. O'Connor.. '5.00 John J. Prince 10.00 Arthur W . Stace 25.00 Oeon B. Sutton 10.00 Marcellus L. Wiedenbeck 5.00 
Bottle Greek Raymond R. Allen 5.00 
Henry C. Black, Jr 1.00 
Raymond J. Brancheou.. 5.00 John T. Browning 10.00 Bernard K. Juzwiok 2.00 Francis L. Murroy 20.00 William J. Purtel 1.00 Harold E. Steinbocher.. 25.00 
Bay<Sty 
Poul A. Brysselbout 10.00 Gerald E. Carroll 2.00 Jos. C. Goddeyne 50.00 Robert W . Heninglon.. 5.00 William R. House 10.00 James L. Kavanogh.... 10.00 Francis J. Kirchmon 25.00 Hubert J. Kirchmon 10.00 John C. Meagher 10.00 Clemens F. Niedzielski. 5.00 George K. Ward. 10.00 Paul E. Wendlond 5.00 
Benton Horbor John T. Boilay 100.00 John Enney. fr. 500.00 
George J. Lynch 5.00 Benjamin J. Mammino.. 5.00 James D. Owen '. 2.00 Phillip J. Shields S.OO Cyril C. Theisen 10.00 Gerard C. Theisen 25.00 
Berrien Spings 
Horry S. Brown 1.00 
Biminghaia )fra.Joa.Cousena 1,000.00 
Raymond .C. Cunningham 5.00 '' Harrison E. Hanson 3.00 Thomas G. Kovanough. 10.00 John E. Moore 1,000.00 Fred Sage 50.00 Harry B. Slillman 2S.00 Cyril J. Tlusly 2.00 
Buoiaaon 
John J. Besinger 5.00 
W . R. Desenberg 5.00 
 Jerome J. Kaczmorek... 5.00 

Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the-Master Table, poges 9 to 17. 
Morgan E. Cartier.. 10.00 Lawrence A. Dillon 3.00 Morgan E. Cartier, Jr... 2.00 Lowrence E. Hockett.... 2.00 
Cadillac Walter J. Gerend 10.00 Front S. Szymonski 5.00 
Charles H Miltner 25 00 iohn J. Gorman, Jr 20.00 Thomas W. Thompson, Jr, 10.00 Joseph F. Deeb 25.00 
Francis H.'Miltner.V.V.V 10.00 Edward F. Hocke.t 1.00 John C. Ullmann 20.00 
Huntington Woods 

Charles W. Duffy 10.00 
George T. Hanlon, Jr... 200.00 Jerome W. Wayno 5.00 
Clorence' B. Haven 5.00 

Edword R. Dunn. 10.00 
John E. Hannon 10.00 Edward W. Wilberding. 5.00 
Coro 
Clorence J. Koiser 5.00 

Edward G. Fennell.... 5.00 
Edward J. Hickey 5.00 Leo M. Willick 5.00 
Roy J. Boirley 10.00 John I. Flanagan 5.00 Doniel J. Sullivan, Jr... 10.00 
John T. Higgins 110.00 Andrew F. Wilson 25.00 'Paul E. Flanagan 5.00 
Ceroid Joseph Holland 10.00 Charles J. Wolf 1.00 Urban Hubert 10.00 Edward 
Cassopolis C. Wurzer.... 5.00 Philip G. Fritz 30.00 Iron Mountain 
Frederick Heischer 50.00 C. Wurzer 25.00 Frederick C. Cost 10.00 Norman C. Bartholomew 10.00 Stanley W. Insley 100.00 John H. Zimmers 25.00 Froncis J. Geary 15.00 Edward J. Dundon.... 10.00 Centre ville C. Edward Jacques, Jr.. 10.00 Curtis A. Hester 2.00 Robert D. LeMense 5.00 Williom E. Corrico 15.00 John G. Jeakle. 5.00 Dowagiac G. A. Jackoboice 10.00 Waller Lang Schroder.. 5.00 
Arnold R. Levondoski.. 5.00 5.00 
Thomos L. Hutchison, Jr. 5.00 Louis 
John F. Kane 5.00 Robert J. Burke 5.00 Cheboygan Horry F. Kelly. 25.00 Ezra H. FrankliiL 50.00 
Don J. Levondoski 10.00 Robert B. Linsey 5.00 Ironwood 
Joseph P. Stitefc 5.00 Roymond J. Kelly, Sr. 10.00 Joseph B. Shopero. 5.00 Guy L. Loronger 5.00 
Alfred O. Kiefer 5.00 Robert R. Waterson. 5.00 Roymond H. Ebli 5.00 Geo. E. Ludwig 5.00 
Coldwater John K. Kilbone 5.00 GrohamWoodhouse 25.00 15.00 Martin S. Kilsdonk., 2.00 Eugene F. Molloy 20.00 5.00 Thomas H. Luckey 5.00 
Richard D. McCormick.. 5.00 
Howard A. Klein... 5.00 East Detroit 
Mrs. Bose Steif aniak 6.00 
Norberf H. Merdzinski.. 15.00 
Molcolm F. Knous 100.00 Mothew K. Millenbach. Ishpeming Robert J. Koch 3.00 
10.00 

John W. Meulendyk.... 5.00 
15.00 Alfred J. Kolko 5.00 _ . _ j T. -j
Dearborn 

Edword J. Moore 10.00 
Alfred C. Nachtegoll.. 10.00 
John W. Courtney 10.00 jn„ „ j . Kress 5.00 East Grond Hopids 
Jackson 

Edward J. Noonon 2.00 
John M. Curron, Jr 1.00 gfnejt P. LaJoie 10.00 Thomas A. Hoyes 5.00 William C. O'Brion 15.00 
10.00 

Edword J. Dore, Jr 15.00 Louis J. LoJoie 10.00 Gerald E. Roach 20.00 John F. O'Horo 5.00 Hugh J. Loughna 10.00 Charles H. Roach 5.00 
William A. Dotterweich 5.00 Vincent A. Stace 10.00 Joy L. Lee 10.00 East Lansing Thomas G. Rooch 20.00 Lyman H. Hill, Jr 5.00 100.00 
Edword C.Rycn 10.00 25.00 
Milton J. Wagner 25.00 williom A. Lieser 10.00 Charles W. Bochmon.. 10.00 
Froncis A. Veil, Jr 100.00 5.00 
Paul B. Lillis. 7.00 
Leo W. Walsh 15.00 
Decatur John A. Lynch. 10.00 
Edwardsburg 

George H. Weiss 3.00 3.00 
Carl E. Wickett-25.00 Thomas A. Moher 5.00 , . , , „ L. J. Wisda 10.00 
John W. Withey 5.00 
L. P. Malone 25.00 ^""""^ ^-^^"^y ^'^ 
Robert C. Woodhouse.. 5.00 
Charles M. A. Martin.. 20.00 
Detroit 
Jonesville 
Escanaba 

L. Peter Martin . . 20.00 
John W. Anhut 20.00 
Joseph J. McCormick... 10.00 Mrs. Catherine Grosse Pointe Willord E. Crotly 20.00 John T. Annas 50.00 
Patrick S. McDougoll.. 10.00 Bonilas 25.000.00 Heortley W, Anderson.. 10.00 
Joseph A. Boch 5.00 
Michael C. McFodden, Jr. 5.00 Donold H. Boyce. 5.00 Jomes P. Donoher 10.00 Kalamaxoo William J. Bailey 5.00 
John J. McHole 10.00 Francis Boyce 5.00 Francis G. Ebner 10.00 5.00 
Robert J. Boty 25.00 
Waller P. McKenno 5.00 Gerald*!. Cleory 25.00 Andrew C. Jonis 10.00 G. D. Goudie B.OO 
George E. Bolger 5.00 
William S. McKenno. 25.00 Donald F. LeMire 5.00 Vincent H. Meli 100.00 Rt. Rev. Monsignor Johr John J. Borkowski, Jr... 5.00 
F. Gilbert McMohon 5.00 Robert E. LeMire 10.00 James N. Motschall 5.00 R. Hockett 250.00 
Seword E. Bower 5.00 
Herbert S. Mellon 5.00 John A. Lemmer 25.00 Jacques Rousseau 10.00 100.00 
Daniel F. Brodley 5.00 
Herbert Mendel- Robert F. Schmit 6.00 Chester P. Sodowski 25.00 5.00 
John F. Breen 10.00 
son 30,000.00 Donold J. Trotlier 5.00 Victor J. Schoeffner 10.00 10.00 
John W . Brennon 15.00 
Elmer E. Milliman I.OO Joseph A. Schroge 10.00 Arthur J. Mulhollond, Jr. 25.00 
Ernest G. Brock 5.00 John Milliman 
John A. Slottery 30.00 10.00 
Harvey F. Brown 50.00  R. 5.00 Erie Charles O. Molz 25.00 
Theodore W. Trefzer... 10.00 10.00 
Lawrence A. Burns 10.00 Bernard L. Cousino. 10.00 James T. Moore 10.00 
Neil J. Whalen 5.00 10.00 
Jomes J. Byrne 15.00 George B. Morris, Jr... 10.00 8.00 
Joseph H. Corey 10.00 Groue Pointe Farms Williom  E. Carroll! ! 5^00 •'°''" ^-^°"'" ^°-°° Cyril G. Desmet 1.00 
Flint 

_ 
Fred J. Corideo 10.00 Lansing 
Alfred E. Cartier 1.00 Walter F. Mullen 10.00 
William J. Reoume 3.00 
25.00 

E. Louis Choussee.;.... 25.00 Bernard C. Murray 15.00 Thomas F. Holligon Raymond J. Bonini 5.00 Lou M. Nagelsen 15.00 Po"' C. Hughes 5.00 Grocse Pointe Pork 
Henry J. Clark 10.00 Robert W. Hughes 10.00 Thomas Nesler 10.00 Raymond J. Kelly, Jr... 5.00 J. Bell Moron 100.00 
Ellsworth A. Cordesmon 2.00 Horry F. Kelly 25.00 Polrick N. Nolan 2.00 Edward H. Krupo. 5.00 Doniel J. Stock, Jr 50.00 
John R. Corrigon 5.00 5.00 Clyde P Craine 25 00 Louis W. Norman 15.00 John F. Loux 10.00 Morcellus C. Verbiest.. 50.00 Clement E. McForlone.. 100.00 
Arthur D. CroninV'jV.!! 50100 J""" " F. O'Brien 15.00 Donold F.MacDonold.. 2.00 
50.00 

Grosse Pointe Woods 
10.00 

Wolter J. Cronin 10.00 J""" " J- Q-Donnell.... 10.00 Robert J..MocDonald... Wm. F. Wiltenburg 15.00 5.00 
Francis A. Beoupre 5.00 
Edw. V. Crowe 10.00 H. S. Oderman 100.00 W'H'omF. Mmardo.. Joseph E. Okopien 10.00 
Robert A. Mossey 15.00 Desmond P. Currier 1.00 Ronold S. O'Neill 10.00 Lapeer 
Edword J. Weeks 15.00 Donald F. Currier 25.00 William E. O'Reilly, Jr. 5.00 
James M. Pearson 25.00 

Eugene S. Witchger 20.00 5.00 Gerald A. Currier 5.00 Robert T. Ostermon 10.00 
T. Ceroid Randall 5.00 
Daniel H. Sheeron 50.00 

Albert F. Davis 20.00 Eugene A. Otiewski 10.00 ^ , ., , Leland 
Hancock 
Hugh Dean 300.00 !">>'•'•? J- PWHiP 5.00 ^"""^ *• Sherwood.... 5.00 35,00 
Richard V. Ruppe 5.00 
John J. Deane 5.00 Horry H. Phillips 5.00 Joseph F. Keusch, Jr... 10,00 Roymond H. DeFouw.. 3.00 Robert J. Piercecchi. 10.00 Fowler Hart 
Wm. F. Woll 5.00 John L. DeCurse 15.00 Edmund A. Polhous. 15.00 Bruno C. Cook 10.00 Stewart J. Roche 3.00 Dovid L. Dolon I.OO Eugene M. Quinn 10.00 Timothy M. Green 5.00 Lincoln Park Michael J. Dolon 5.00 Froncis E. Quish 15.00 Hastings Bernard D. Fletcher 15.00 Edword F. Droves 30.00 Leo J. Ritler 10.00 Romon C. Feldpousch.. 50.00 
Gladstone Harry W. Droves 10.00 E. Wells Robinson 5.00 Lowell 
John J. Groos 10.00 

KgUand Park 
Froncis S. Driscoll 15.00 0°'^'^ T. Roney 5.00 George A. Arenhart 5.00 
Joseph J. PofFenberger.. 10.00 

Clarence A. Durbin 10.00 Edword Charles Roney., 25.00 Mn. Cecile Barr 1,500.00 Joseph F. Kelly 5.00 John George Else 10.00 Gilbert F. Schoefer. .10,100.00 Donald R. Caird 10.00 William J. Fohrner... 5.00 Arthur J. Scheberle 2.00 Grand Bapids HaiiyE.De-Ludington Theodore F. Feldmon.. lO.CO Richer! G. Schneider.. 5.00 Noire Dome Club 250.00 sduyrer 1,000.00 D. E. Cartier 1.00 Donald W. Fisher 5.00 Thomas P. Schreiber 2.00 A. John Alt 5.00 William F. Dooley.... 10.00 George E. R. Cartier.. 1.00 Robert G. Fisher 5.00 Morgan F. Sheedy 10.00 Robert N. All 15.00 Jomes W. Murphy...... 10.00 Warren A. Cartier 3.00 Daniel R. Foley 10.00 Thomos E. Sheehon 5.00 Richord F. Bechtold 5.00 James S. Foren, Jr 10.00 Jomes J. Sherry, Jr 7.50 Thomas A. Bolt 10.00 Holland Manistee Norman J. Fredericks.. 25.00. Jos. R. Simonin 5.00 Joseph F. Boylond 10.00 Bernard P. Donnelly... 25.00 Robert A. Derengoski.. 5.00 Ernest J. Corgoro 20.00 Edwin S. Socholski 10.00 Edword E. Brennon 5.00 Matthew P. Corrigon... 5.00 John M. Slockpoole 5.00 J. Thomas Campbell 5.00 Hudson . Maple City 
John H. Gouthier 10.00 Dennis J. Strzalkowski.. 1.00 James A. Cormody 10.00 Joseph F. Dillon 2.00 Cornelius A. Johnson.. 5.00 
Regular Face Type—^Alumni; Regular Bolder-Other Friends. City and stole totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
Marine City Thos. M. Forrell S.OO M. Chester McGrolh 5.00 Oetaoit LcdEM Romoine R. Rcidwit.... '15.00 
E. Newell DeGurse 5.00 Casper R. Grathwohl.. 50.00 Eugene J. O'Toole, Jr.. 5.00 
Francis C, Schroeder... 10.00 Robtrt M. Tegedtf....: 5.00 Geo. W. Jones 5.00 Eugene J. O'Toole, Sr.. 10.00 Victor W. TheisMii 3X0 
Mazquette Jos. B. Kenny 2.00 Maurice A. Weber 10.00 Dnlnih Paul B. Wolloce....... 1.00 
Peter G. Krajci 25.00 
Gerald E. Poveglio 20.00 John D. Yellond JS.0O 
William E. CoKer, Jr.. 25.00 
Paul T. Leonard 3.00 Saline John J. Walsh 2.C0 
Edword J. Kuth 10.00 
Robert W . Richards 5.00 
Vincent A. Jacobs 3.00 

Philip G. Hoene 5.00 
Robert S. Stewart 1.00 
Marshcdl MerkE. Nolan 10.00 Robert A. McAuliffe.... 3.00 
Paul N. Taggelt 5.00 
Sault Ste. Marie 

Robt. M. Word 10.00 Julius F. Wolff, Jr 5.00 
Lester S. Walker 5.00 
Joseph J. Gill 6.00 Mawllhi 
Mrs. Leo Welch _ 5.00 
Menominee Esealsier Linus C. Glolzbaeh.... 25.00 
P. Paul Kreur 25.00 North Muskegon South Haven Eugene A. O'Brien 10 00 Jerome J. Groebntr 5.00 Henry J. Lauermon 125.00 Charles F. Overton 10.00 Otto S«iat 100.00 
George W. Cannon, Jr. 100.00 
Michael D. O'Horo.... 7.50 FainneBt Spring Lake 
Owosso Michael G. Garry 5.00 OwolooBOl MeniU John A. Prowdzik S.OO 
Francis W . Kosper... 10.00 Thomas C. Smersh 2.i» John J. O'Toole 3.00 
Joseph H. Mulhall 50.00 
Louis J. Spagnuolo 5.00 
Stephenson Glanco* FipMloB* Michigan Center 
Peioskey Robert F. Voelker 5.00 Richard J. Sham'la 15.00 vVm. J. Crook........ 10.00 Carlton B. Maino 25.00 
Isoac P. Rehkopf 2.00 
Sturgis Sbbing Redwood Falls Midland 
Pleasant Bidge Eli J. Shaheen 100.00 Charles U BeccheHi.... 15.00 
Austin J. Barlow 5.00 

Robert T. Blockhurst 10.00 Hamilton P. Brown 10.00 
John J. Johnson '.... 5,00 John E. Costa 5.00 Trenton John P. Donovan 5.00 
Pontiac 
James R. Foley 25.00 Francis J. Ryan 25.00 Monroe John F. McDermott... 4.00 John R. Ryan 5.00 Corrin H. Hodgson S.OO 
Williom J. Bergon 10.00 
John G. Dewey 10.00 Ernest V. Rieder 10.00 Russell J. Ryan 5.00 Thomas J. Kennedy 2.00 
Thomas L. Duffy 5.00 Thomas E. Griffin 50.00 J. Albert Nigro 40.00 
Robert J. Dunloy 15.00 
Arthur C. Kirby 5.00 A^ckaburg Inteniational Fdls Gilberi Uls ...-. - 25.00 
Roy C. Pauli 10.00 Robert H. Maurer 5.00 Roland J. Smith 25.00 Joseph M. Semenczuk.. 5.00 Irwin P. Crotly 5.00 Lawrence E. Merman.. 5.00 
Charles A. Sweeney 10.00 SL Oond 
Charles J. Montrie 5.00 LakeviUs 
Port Huron West Branch Raymond J. Conrad.... 25.00 
F. James Navorre 5.00 

Thomas L. Atkins 5.00 Rev. Edmund O'Connor. 50.00 Daniel M. Ech.. S.OO Francis T. Reody 5.00 
Francis H. Comins 1.00 
John R. Pehich 5.00 

Arthur K. Folk 2.00 
Arthur E. Steiner 10.00 

LaSnenr Charles T. Hastings 2.00 Neil H. Amiot 20.00 Francis J. Winter 10.00 St Pool John J. FitzGerold 2.00 Wyandotte 
Mt. Clemens 

John K. Leahy 2.00 Francis X. George 5.00 Francis X. Amato 5.00 
Joseph C. Brehler 5.00 

Joseph K. Mcintosh.... 5.00 L. William Fury 10.00 Long fteda* Lawrence J. Barrett 10.00 
James C.Daner 5.00 

Clifford O'Sullivan 25.00 James P. McForlone 
10.00 Ardo 1. Reichert... 10.00 Frank J. Belting 5.00 
Rev. John Andrew Thomas J. Peloso 5.00 George M. Wolf 

5.00 Ermin E. Reichert 5.00 Francis W . Biagi 2.00 
MocNomaro 50.00 

F. Granger Weil 5.00 
Thomas L Bohen 10.00 David V. Wallace 10.00 William L. Wilson 10.00 Ypsilanti 
Monkato Paul H. Casfner... . 10.00 John S. Wittliff 10.00 
Walter Joseph Short.... Rev. Bernard J. Coughlin 20.00 
S-OO John E. Boylon , 5.00 
Muskegon 

Louis O. Stoelens John A. Culligan 5.00 
S-O" John H. Graif 5.00 Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Quinnesec Joseph D. Sullivan John M. Culligan 441 JO 
^•°'' John F. Meogher 40.00 
F. Bebeau. Sr. „ 10.00 Emanuel I. Pancheri 5.00 Theodore S. Weber, Jr. John K. Cutforth 15.00 
S-W John L. Thro 25.00 
Froncis J. Donovan 100.00 Dennis D. Daly 15.00 Richard A. Dratz 3.00 Ravenna Eugene E. DeLoy 2.00 John D. Fitzpatrict 25.00 Minnesota Marshall Edw. J. Fohey 5.00 
Leo L. Lrnck 23.00 
John L. Bulowski 15.00 
John F. Frederick 25.00 Adams Roger J. Healy. 5.00 
Richard E. O'Connell.. 10.00 
Robert W. Hale 10.00  E. 5.00 
Biver Bouge Conrod L. Schissel. 25.00 Stanley Huff 
Thoddeus S. Kmiecit 20.00 Lehand P. Kramer 5.00 
Joseph V. Page 5.00 
Richard L. Mason 10.00 Bemidji Iffinneapolis Edward C. Krick 10.00 Blair McGowan 15.00 Emmett I. Barron 25.00 Thomas C. Mahon 3.00 
Royal Oak Clarence R. Smith... 25.00 
J. Frank Oehlhotfen.... 25.00 Jerome V. Blotz 2.00 Paul I. McDermott 25.00 
Lowrence G. McLoughlin 5.00 
James M. Price 2.00 Frederick B. Chute 10.00 Andrew W. McMullen.. 10.00 
Thos. G. Sennett 2,000.00 Blue Earth 
Joseph T. Riley 50.00 Louis P. Chute 25.00 Raymond G. Mock 5.00  15.00 John 10.00 
Joseph F. Sonford 10.00 Jos. W. Sullivan P. McNamora Arnold L. Clevelond 1.00 Robert J. Mosher 5.00 Gerald F. Conway 25.00 Joseph P. O'Brien 5.00 Muskegon Heights Martin E. Dolan 10.00 I. A. O'Shaughnessy 101,000.00 
Saginaw Broinerd 
50.00 

Joseph J. Baitley 5.00 Jos. R. Dunn G. Howard Dolmoge... 15.00 Robert M. Rogers 25.00 William J. Connon 10.00 
Ralph V. August 5.00 

Carl W. Doozon 10.00 John J. Donahue 10.00 James F. Shiely 10.00 Joseph F. Hart 10.00 Breckenridge John J. Doyle 3.00 Nicholas A. Vincelli.... 2.00 William A. Hendrick.... 20.00 10.00 Carl R. Erickson 2.00 
Nazareth Richard M. Smith 
Wm. C. Hurley 10.00 Kenneth J. Fishleigh.... 5.00 SiiUwaisr 
George J. McMorrow. 15.00 

Harold V. Lappin 5.00 Robert P. Fogerty 5.00 
Caledonia John C. Burke 5.00 Ben H. Mahank 5.00 5.00 William M. Guimont.. 25.00 
Frank Mayer •. 10.00 

New Baltimore Paul B. Qualy 
Harry B. McGee 4.00 Chas. J. Hallman 10.00 Chorles W. Schmid 10.00 Edward A. Sompiere 25.00 Thomas M. Hart 5.00 
Two OOXDOKM .
Chisholm 

Edward F. Schmid 10.00 Herbert R. Schnettler... 5.00 19.40 Thomas H. Hodgson 10.00 
M. Albert Henry 5.00 

John D. Shea ' 10.00 John L. Freedy Michael J. Keegan 5.00 New Haven Alfred N. Slaggert 5.00 Arnold J. Klein 5.00 Lowrence L. Strable 5.00 Clear Lake Wallace F, Kreighbaum 10.00 Vipgiiiiii 
Edward G. Siegfried 50.00 15.00 Michoel V. Teders 5.00 Emmett M. Grinoger Thomas J. Lee, Jr 10.00 Nicholas F. Pepeln[ak.. 5.00 Thos. F. Von Aarle.... 25.00 William K. Lord 5.00 John C. Richards, Jr.... 5.00 
Newport 

Robert W . Witchger 25.00 Collegei^ille 5.00 Charles L Madden, Jr. 5.00 
Remi O. Renier... 20.00 

Emerson M. Hynes Robert J. Madden 5.00 
Wosoca 

S L Joseph 
Vincent W . Mauren 5.00 
Robert J. Buckley, Jr.... 10.00 

NUes Leo K. Cook 10.00 Crookston Chas. H. McCarthy.... 25.00 
5.00 Daniel M. Coughlin 25.00 
Thomos Walter Cain 5.00 Malcolm K. Hatfield.... 10.00 Frederic E. Fowler Gerald E. McKay 5.00 Hamilton E. Calvert 2.00 Robert V. Knox 10.00 William E. Meier 5.00 Sheridan Cook 10.00 Lawrence F. Krieger.... 15.00 Crosby Vincent E-• Morrison..... 1.00 White BsorLidw Edwin L. Dunn 10.00 Donold J. McGroth 2.00 Harry M. Koop .-.. 5.00 Louis J. Regan 20.00 Thomas G. Lowler 5.00 
Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 fo 17. 
Willmor Louis E. SchmitiWinona John A. GramsPaul KoprowskiMississippi Bilozi Charles W. MortinGieenville Frank V. Ciolino, JrWilliam P. CondonJackson Jomes T. ConizoroGeorge B. HuthCharles D. JonesWilliam H. MillerPeter J. TrolioNatchez Patrick P. BurnsEdwin J. Byrne  10.00  10.00  1.00  10.00  5.00  15.00  25.00  10.00  25.00  10.00  25.00  2.00  20.00  Kansas City Jomes P, Aylword, Jr,,, 10.00 John R. Baty 10.00 Norman M. Bowes 5.00 Richord J. Bowes 5.00 James F. Bray 10.00 Maurice J. Carroll 25.00 Salvotore S. DiGiovanni 20.00 John J, Doermer 6.00 James W . Downey 5.00 Drexel L. Duffy 10.00 Froncis E. Dugon, Jr 10.00 Stephen A. Durbin 10.00 James B. Finucone 5.00 Thomas F. Finucone 5,00 Thomas J, Higgins 5.00 Francis J. luen, Jr 5.00 John F. LaBonte 5.00 Richard J. Lojoie 10.00 Joseph M. Moog 10.00 Charles E. Maher 2,50 Fred Moncuso 5.00 Quentin J. Marshall 10.00 Henry J. Massman, Jr.. 525.00 William C. McCarthy, Jr. 10.00 Daniel V. McGinnis 10.00 George J. McLiney 5.00 James P. Metzler 5.00 Robert J. Metzler 5.00  Parkville Eugene Von den Boom, 25,00 Perryville Edward F, Lottes...-.. ^, 10.00 Pilot Groye John G. Neckermon 5.00 Portageville J. Carroll Pinkley 5.00 Talbert C. Pinkley, Jr... 5.00 Bichmond Heights Robert E, Funsch 15,00 William J. Gillespie 25.00 Frank X,Tully 10,00 EockHiU Edword Kohl Handlon,, 5,00 SL Charles Joseph M, Jenkins 20,00 St. Joseph  James P. Murphy 25.00 Glasgow William J, Nolle -10.00 Rev, Henry B, Altmonn, John T. Olive, Jr 5.00 James. J. O'Neal 5.00 Glendire Harold V. Pohlmeyfr,. 5.00 Paul J, Hagon Albert J, Ravarino 200.00 James F. Redding 5.00 Great Falls Robert Ralph Rosenthal, 5.00 Mr. and Mia. H Ed-Joseph V, Maronick James Joy Musselmon,. word Rowan — 100.00 John K, Rowland 10.00 John A, Scherer 3.00 Helena Daniel L, Sexton 10.00 Eugene A, Fehlig Elmer E, Sexton 5.00 Bernard F, Groiney Joseph B. Shea 25.00 Thomas W , Shields 4.00 Kolispell Edmond Y. Steinhofi 10.00 Noel M, Gies Henry B. Surkomp 15.00 Timothy W . Tunney 10.00 Livingston Fred C, Weber, Jr 10.00 Herbert I, Weber 10.00 A, Clark Volberding Matthew Weis 525.00 William H, White 5.00 Missoula John M, Wilke, Jr 3.00 Robert B, Cummins Arnaud J, Wilson 3.00 Oscar F, Rydell Harold J, Wrope 10,00 Scobey Salisbury John D, Coughlin Martin A, Berlsch 1,00  10,00 10.00 25.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00  
Vicksburg Robt. F. Evans, Jr 5.00 Lawrence H. Hennessy.. 25.00 Jos. P. Polermo 5.00 Missouri Boonville Lawrence A. Schmidt,.. 5,00 Brentwood 5,00 Waldo W. Wilson, Jr.. 10.00 Clayton George J. Convy, Jr.., 10.00 B. Daniel Coughlin 50.00 5.00 10.00 Edward J. Griesedieck, Jr. 10.00 Arthur C. Hiemenz, Jr... 1.00 Gerald V, McDermott,. 10.00 Robert J, McKay 5.00 50.00 Francis J, Pollnow, Jr,,, 155.00 5.00 5.00  D. M. Nigro 70.00 E. Robt. Nigro 40.00 Thomas E. Oakes, Jr,,, 20,00 Edward P, O'Connor.,, 20.00 John J. O'Connor, Jr., 25,00 Robert H, Owens 5,00 Robert P, Pendergost,,, 10,00 William H, Pluchel 15,00 Richord P, Prezebel 5,00 Wm, F, Purcell 15.00 Bernard G. Quirk 10.00 Edward J. Reardon 5.00 Thomos M. Reardon 10.00 Samuel E. Richards 5.00 Thomas E. Rooney 5.00 Gerhard J. Schroer 5.00 Gerard J. Smith 25.00 Joseph R. Stewort 10.00 Francis W. Toyne 5.00 V/illiom J. Tracy 8.00 John E. Troup, Jr 10.00 Robt. Tyler 10.00 M. J. Von Dyke 5.00 Chorles C. Whitaker.... 250.00 John F, Whitaker 250,00 Fred G, Wirthman 10,00 Kirkwood Anthony F, Dorley 10,00  Francis J, Fogarty 10.00 Richard W. Snooks 25,00 St. Louis Notre Dome Club 1,500,00 Joseph J, Becker 5,00 Ralph W, Bergman 10,00 Fred J, Berkley 45.00 Elmer J. Brengortner 20.00 John Breslin 2.00 George Irving Bruno.. 5,00 Edword O, Buddy 10,00 John E, Byrne 10.00 Eugene P. Cain 20.00 Mrs. Anna Qorke. 700,00 James F. Combs,,, 3,00 Joseph P, Costello, Jr,,. 10.00 Bernard P. Crowley 5.00 James A. Dacey, Jr 10.00 Henry L. Dohm, Jr 10.00 Fred C. Doues 10.00 George B. Desloge 3.00 Leo S. Donati, Jr 10.00 Charles Thomas Dougherty 5.00 Chorles E. Eimer 25.00 James H. Evans 15.00 Vincent J. FeMig 5.00 Frank Rnnigon 25.00 Kenneth A. Forbes 10.00  Sedolia John J, McGrath 10,00 Nebraslia Aurora Sikeston Geo, C, Wanek William P, Hunter 10.00 Beatrice Springfield Mark John Walsh John H, Landers 25,00 Henry A, Meyer, Jr 10,00 Columbus John A. Quinn, Jr.. 5,00 Lester J, CorrigGretna Univeisity City Charles J. Patterson Paul M. George 10.00 William B. Guyol 5.00 Richord J. Klohr 5.00 Hortington William J. Warnick 5.00 Lawrence Rossiter .. . Webster Groves Hastings 5.00 .150.00 William M. O'Connor.. 25.00 Lincoln Francis W . Roth . 10.00 John L. Beourivage ..Westboie .Ardys D. VonStovern,,. 5.00  25.00 10.00  25.00 2.00 25.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  25.00  
Voldo  H. Wrope Edina  10.00 10.00 10.00  Paul T, FehligWilfred J, RileyLouisiana Henry L. Griesedieck, Jr.  5,00  25.00  5.00  Francis J. Gaglione 5.00 Walter A. George 1,100.00 Joseph T. Golabowski.. 15.00 Robert A. Griesedieck.. 5.00 Wm. A. Griesedieck... 25.00  Montana Anaconda  Nelson Richard L. Myers Noriolk  ­ 1.00  
Ferguson  Mexico  John J. Griffin, Jr 10.00 Robert T, Hellrung,,,, 25.00  2,00  10,00  
Francis B. Colgrave 25.00 5.00 2.00 Glendale Edward F. Mangels dorf, Jr. 10.00 Hannibal Corl R. Heiser 10.00 Williom H. Meyer 25.00 Robert T. Rendlon 5.00 Orlond W. Yates..; 10.00  Mize Morris 5.00 John A. Pearl 5.00 Robert Frederick Torrence 5.00 Moberly William A, O'Keefe,,,, 15,00 Neosho Donald M. Draper 10,00 New Madrid Hal E, Hunter 5,00  Thomas A. Hennigon.. 5.00 Herman J. Hinsman 750.00 John D. Hucbtep, Jr 10.00 Mortin L. Hughes 5.00 Paul W. Kane 5.00 George R. Korr 25.00 Francis L. Kennedy 60.00 Thomas R. Kennedy 5.00 Eugene F. Killoren 5.00 Francis A. Kiein 10.00 J. Jos. Longton 10.00 Vincent Joseph Lierman. 1.00 Morton J, Lucas.,., 5,00 William C. MocDonold. 10.00  Billings Maurice J. Converse Robert F, Converse Jomes V, O'Donnell Butte Edward M, Fredericks,,  Ogallala 5,00 Gerald J. McGinley 10.00 5.00 Omaha 10.00 Theodore S. Holpin 5.00 Thos S. McShane. Sr. 10.00 5.00 J. F. Shieds 25.00 Thomas A. Walsh, Jr.., 50.00 Robert P, Winter 5.00  25,00 5,00 5,00 5,00 50,00 25,00 lO.UU 25.00 20.00  
JeHerson City Donald R. Gillilond  8,00  OTallon Herbert A, Westhoff,-,,, 15,00  Donold F, MoguireJ, Thomas MongonFrancis F. McCarthy  5,00  20,00  1,00  Edward Froncis Simonich  5.00 5.00  Ponca  25.00  
Joplin  Overland  Fredolin S, McNeill,...J, Reynolds Medort  5,00  20,00  Enrigrant  y^jk  
Morton Z, Douthat  5,00  Cyril  B, Fites  10,00  John Mueller  2,00  Jomes  L  Murphy  10.00  jo^es  C. Curron...  5.00  

Regular Face Type—^Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Moster Table, pages 9 to 17. 
Bayonne  DoTcr  HsBUM n  Noms PlnJTis  
Nevada  Daniel J. CullinaneJames J. Donovan  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  aiffbrd  H. Welsh  5.00  
Maurice  J. Duffy  10.00  East Orange'  HdsbfoudE Bns^ils  Noniiloiiu  
Solvatore J. LaPilusa, Jr. 10.00 


50.00 10.00 George A. Conway.... 3.00 
Boulder City 

George L. O'Connor... 10.00 
25.00 Charlex Warren Call 5.00 Enilio J. Gervasio.... 5.00 
Joseph C. Manix 25.00 Ward F. O'Connor.... 10.00 
5.00 10.00 Edward L Holland 5.00 Thoddeus S. Porowslci.. 5.00 
5.00 Joseph A. Pormigiani.. 10.00 
Reno 

5.00 Hdwthocn* Doniel M. Verilli 10.00 Edward P. Corville 25.00 25.00 
Belleville 
5.00 Michael A. Diskin 100.00 John J. Elliot 10.00 35.00 Nawoik 
Mrs. Francis V. George F. Ploine, Jr... 2.00 
KgUands Alphonse V. AWino 5.00 Sogers . 18.50 
3.00 25.00 N. Hampshire 5.00 
5.00 Lawrence F. Bumitt.... 3.00 Belmar William H. Smullen 5.00 
Alfred J. Cailan, Jr 10.00 

Hobokmi Michael J. Coffey 5.00 5.00 10.00 Concord Daniel A. Young, Jr 10.00 Francis D. Garibaldi 15.00 
5.00 Bernard J. Cushing 10.00 Bergeniield Fradoick M. Coman 25.00 East Paterson Hohokna 
Thos. Wm. Sheridan 10.00 John B. Coonar j100.00 Dover 5.00 Edward Joseph Hanly, Jr. 10.00 
5.00 Frank J. Keenan 7.50 Bloomfield 3.00 
Elizabeth tfvingtoii
Lawrence P. Keenan 5.00 25.00 
Edward D. Quinn 10.00 Robert R. Keenan 5.00 10.00 5.00 
Sabby Dante Addonizio. 
Peter J. Quinn, Jr 10.00 25.00 
10.00 

Thos. H. Keenan— 25.00 10.00 5.00 Wm. P. Fitzgerald 5.00 
Ernest W . Rauscher 5.00 
3.00 10.00 Hanover . 10.00 Gervase A. Froelich.... 25.00 
Clair M. Rively Geo. Edward Keenen, Jr. 

Albert H. Monacelli 5.00 Jaraar Ciir Raymond A. Geiger....' 25.00 
Milton J. Piepul 5.00 Bogota 5.00 Vincent C. A. Bitter, Jr. 25.00 Robert H. Karl 10.00 

Francis M. Joseph 5.00 
10.00 10.00 
Hinsdale 

Englewood 5.00 5.00 
Arthur J. Mosher 10.00 Bordentown 
William C. Blind 5.00 10.00 George J. Melinkovick.. 5.00 
5.00 

10.00 Francis A. Giordano.... 12.00 5.00 
Littleton Joseph W. Rotigon 5.00 
20.00 Edward J. Maher, Jr... 10.00 10.00 ^ Thomas J. Moloney.... 5.00 10.00 
10.00 

Bound Brook 
Fair Lawn 25.00 10.00 
Manchester 

15.00 Melville S. Rummel 10.00 10.00 
5.00 

Moxime L. Gouthier 25.00 Ber. John P. 5.0O 
5.00 

50.00 Bradley Beach SnlKvon .. . I0O.0O William J. Waldron, Jr. 15.00 
Roland J. Mortel 2.00 George A. Bariscillo, Jr. 10.00 Fords Clifford P. Tollman 10.00 Lawrence J. Winter.... 1.0fr Philip A. Walker 10.00 
Raymond J. Gadek.... 5.00 

Sunopee Budd Lake George E. Wenz, Jr... 25.00 Naw Bnmawid 
Jorloth M. Slattery 5.00 5.00 Arthur D. Walsh 5.0O 
Keomr 
Francis E. Gibson 5.00 

Wm . P. Oiognordi- 1.00 Newteni 
CaldweU 
George J. McDonnell... 25.00 

Francis F. .McDermitt.. 10.00 Warren McIGah _ 30.00 Francis Edward Bright. 5.0O' Bernard A. O'Connor, Jr.25.00 Josph P. Quinn, Jr. 25.00 
New Mexico 
Garfield 

Albuquerque Thomas A. Potter 1.00 
Carney's Point 
John E. Porcoro 5.00 

John Lawrence Duggan. 3.00 North JUiagioa 
Robert J. Thomas 10.00 
Laoaia 
Anton R. Hebenstreit... 25.00 Bernard K. Crowford... 100.00 
Glen Bidge 

Vincent P. Hengesboch. 5.00 Frederick D. Holh 1.00 James V. McAveney 5.00 Cartert Richard J. Purcell 3.00 
Louis C. Lujan 25.00 

Charles F. O'Malley.... 5.00 limdan North Bezgan 
B. W. Harrington 5.00 Glen Bock 
George A. Schreiber 5.00 

Julius P. Rocca 2.0O William J. Gomber 5.0O Chathom Chorles A. Finkel 5.00 
Bayard John V. Gilmour 5.00 
Walter C. Houghton.... 10.00 Madison North Hcdadon Charles M. Loughrey.. 10.00 
Thomas P. Foy 15.00 Bev. >bgr. John 2.00 Cliiton Oauenhonar 100.00 
Gloucester City 
Clovis 
North Flainaeld 

Eugene R. Angiulli 10.00 
William C. Costello 25.00 

Thomas E. Burns 5.00 Michael J. Bishko 5.00 Mahwah 10.00 Thomas W. Kane 5.00 Edward D. O'Brien 5.00 
Grondwood 
Las Cruces 

Myles F. Kelly 3.00 NnUay 
Joseph W. Whelon.... 949.76 

James C. Stevenson 10.00 George J. Keenan 2.00 Moplawood Edwin A. VonHoene 10.00 William J. Mothey 2.00 
5.00 
Hackensack 

Miss Mary McNamara 5.00 
Boswell 25.00 OcaanGty 
Potrick A. Dizenzo 5.00 
12.00 

James T. Jennings 10.00 Joseph V. Gosline, Jr... 25.00 
James B. Gallagher 5.00 

Closter 5.00 
Leopoldo A. Pacheco... 5.00 
David A. Gelber 5.00 
20.00 

Joseph A. Hofmonn, Jr. 10.00 OradaU 
Melvin W. Gelber 5.00 Santa Fe Lucien J. Lacroix 3.00 
10.00 

Matnchan 
John R. Soyers 5.00 

B. P. Wood 20.00 Collingswood 
Gregory S. Costa, Jr..: 10.00 
Omnga 

Daniel E. Boyle 10.00 
5.00 

Hackettstown 28.75 
Tucumcari Lester J. Wolf 5.00 Williqm R. Smith 25.00 Robert G. Huelz 10.00 
Emmit M. Jennings 10.00 SfilHngton 
10.00 

Craniord 
Haddonfield 10.00 Francis A. Ruggiero.... 5.00 Walter J. Cordes 5.00 Daniel B. Hatpin 25.00 Bernard K. Wingerter.. 10.00 . Fronk R. Pfoff 5.00 Msntdoii 
John J. Reilly 5.00 Eugene G. Rau 20.00 Arthur M. Edwards 5.00 } 
New Jersey 
Packunodc Loon 
AUenhurst 

Frank J. Sowa 2S-.00 Haddon Heights Howard R. Gorrigan... 10.00 
C. Cameron Dooley 2.00 

James E. Hayes 25.00 
Herbert P. McCobe.... 25.00 Fronk E. Swift 5.00 25.03 
5.00 

Denville Harlingen David S. McCaffrey 5.00 FcdiMida William O. Regan 10.00 Charles W. Donahue.. 25.00 James Stanley McGurk.. 3.00 5.00 
Bosldng Bidge 
Peter P. Dupay 25.00 

Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in Ihie Master Toble, pogei 9 to 17. 
Lawrence T. Casey 25.00 William J. Rogers 10.00 
Passaic Chorles J. Robrecht.. 
]l^ New York 

Donald M. Donahue... 10.00 Joseph W. Schmidt 10.00 
Thomas J. SeedorfF... 

Dennis L. Dineen.— 4.00 
Albany James W. Murray 5.00 Horry J. Walters, Jr... 5.00 
Wolter F. Donnelly... 10.00 John V. Hanlon _ 10.00 South Amboy Arthur J. Bradley 5.00 
Bath Bronxville 
Irwin J. SchafFner S.OO Robert J. Burke 5.00 Adam J. Bray 10.00 Robert E. Schoub 
5.00 G. Cullen Burke 5.00 Bernard J. Fogon 5.00 Vincent W. Hortnett 5.00 Andrew R. Sokerko... 10.00 South Orange John F. Campbell 25.00 Hewlett T. Fagan 5.00 Williom C. Keefe 10.00 
10.00 Cyril J. Mullen 10.00 
10.00 Joseph W . Conlon William B. Albert 

Poterson 2.00 Froncis X. Disney 10.00 Bay Shore John A. Mullen 25.00 
Paul Vincent Ames 

10.00 William K. O'Brien.... 10.00 
 James J. 500 Bernard A. Duffy 10.00 Leonard J. Swift 5.00 
Leo J. 5.00  J. Dunham 5 00 Drislone William 5.00 
 Costello Wm. H. Benitz
Richard J. Dericks 25.00 Elmer M. Matthews William D. Gagan, Jr.. 3.00 John J. Fitzpafrick, Jr.. 15.00 
Rev. Sebastian I. Egan. 5.00 William P. Honnon 10.00 Brooklyn 
Salvotore T. Ferrari 20.00 South Biver Boyiide Arnold C. Nunnink 10.00 
L. T. O'Neill. 5.00 John D. Abbotemorco.. 10.00 
Edward R. Alexander... 5.00 Joseph J. Brien 5.00 
Henry N. Rogers. 10.00 Rudolph J. Anderson, Jr. 5.00 
Louis A. MacKinzie 10.00 Pennsgiove Poul H. Weber... 15.00 Walter P. Barbu 5.00 
Spring Lalce John A. Reilly 15.00 
Richard V. Blake 15.00 

William L. Foohey 5.00 T. Gordon Salmon 15.00 Louis J. Corr 10.00 AUegany Edward A. Bracken 15.00 
Thomos James Fitzpotrick 3.00 Beechhurst Lawrence H. Bracken.. 5.00 
PennsviUe Sununit 
William A. Bracken... 5.00 

Joseph E. Foggon Hugh F. Fitzgerald 10.00 
^•™ J. Norbert Gelson.... 10.00 Andrew Joseph Burke.. 5.00 
Altoona 

Jean R. Lepage, Jr... 5.00 Joseph P. Burke 10.00 
Perth Amboy Joseph F. Carver 5.00 BeUoire 
John C. Burns 10.00 William V. Godek.... 10.00 Teaneck Henry V. Feeney, Jr... 1.00 
Raymond J. 
Amityville 

John E. Listcki Daniel J. Honrohon 5.00 
^^•°° Robert E. Burke 10.00 Bushey. Sr. 1,000.00 
Daniel J. Bradley 10.00 Gerard G. Schaefer.... 10.00 
Gerald A. Busch 10.00 Nicholos S. Cosillo 5.00 Phillipsburg James H. Chodwick 10.00 Eugene C. Wohlhorn... 5.00 
Thomas M. Doyle 5.00 John J. Covanagh 5.00 Frank J. Viscomi 5.00 William H. O'Brien.. 3.00 James V. Cowley 5.00 
Amsterdam Belle Harbor 
William J. Cirillo 25.00 

Plainfield Joseph A. Bucci... 5.00 Edward J. Sullivan 2.00 Mrs.Wm.E.aancy 10.00 John A. Kosinski. 5.00 
Trenton 

Edward J. Tracey 5.00 Chorles H. Clark 5.00 Robert E. Kosinski. 5.00 
Joseph F. Haas....... 5.00 James T. Carlin 5.00 
James H. Tracey 15.00 William M. Clemency.. 6.00 
Henry E. Hlnsenkomp.. 5.00 Peter J. Morgan, Jr.... 25.00 
John B. Phillips... 10.00 
William J. Collins 5.00 

William W. Moore... 5.00 
Daniel A. O'Donnell.. 10.00 
Bellerose Francis J. Concannon.. 5.00 
Maurice J. Rigonte 20.00 Henry J. Pisonko 5.00 
Arcade 

Donald J. Sehl 5.00 Charles E. Conger 5.00 
Carlton B. Reilly 5.00 
Francis H. Connors 5.00 James J. Conmey 10.00 
Princeton Edward J. Sullivon 10.00 
Bemus Point Albert J. Donnemiller.. 20.00 
Charles W. Mueller... 5.00 James A. Waldron 10.00 
Astoria Thomas A. Delia 10.00 
Joseph J. Waldron 10.00 Samuel B. Lucariello... 1.00 
A. William DeBrienzo.. 5.00 

Rahway T. Howard Waldron... 10.00 Anthony Dazzo 2.00 
Ernest J. Donoth 10.00 

Donald E. Degnon 2.00 Binghamton Lawrence Berko 10.00 
Jos. F. Dwyer .'. 100.00 

Union Vito J. Fonizzi 5.00 
Jas. T. Quinn 300.00 Eugene M. Carney 25.00 
Edward C. Ellsworth 5.00 
Dominick Fonizzi _ 2.00 

Jomes H. Bailey 10.00 John F. Donnelly 50.00 
WUUam F. Fay 10.00 
Danny Grande 2.00 

Red Bank George J. Haines 5.00 
William R. Foley, Jr... 10.00 
Frank Grande 1.00 

Union City Edward P. Hogon 5.00 
Vincent J. McCue 10.00 Richard E. Gollogher.. 5.00 
Louis Grande 2.00 

Jomes H. Hogon 10.00 
Michael R. Scully 5.00 Louis J. Borghi 5.00 F. I. Gartland 10.00 
Mary Grande 2.00 

John T. Kane 5.00 
John B. Donnellon 5.00 
Ralph A. Gerro 5.00 
Joseph M. Lone 5.00 

John W. Kane 5.00 
Ridgeiield John E. Gruning 10.00 
Louis Depietro 2.00 James W . McCobe 3.00 
Lawrence J. Donovan.. 5.00 Upper Montclcdr Eugene P. Heoly 5.00 
John A. McNicol, Jr... 5.00 
James J. Hartley 4.00 John Q. Adams 50.00 John F. Heffernan 20.00 
Auburn 

Jomes J. Nolon, Jr 5.00 
Eugene J. Dean, Jr 3.00 Lawrence F. Hickey 15.00 
Floyd Paul Brodley 2.00 John J. Reordon 10.00 
Ridgewood Andrew D. Hufnogel... 5.00 
John H. Clifford 5.00 Rev. Robert G. Sullivan 10.00 
Ventnor City William P. Hughes 10.00 
Jos. F. Whelon 50.00 
Francis J. Conboy, Jr... 5.00 Myles Edward Wood.. 2.00 
Eugene F. Hunt 5.00 

Henry B. O'Neill 3.00 
Bernard J. Donoghue.. 25.00 William G. Yeager.... 5.00 
John D. Hunt 5.00 

Biver Edge Robert F. O'Neill 10.00 Ralph F. Else 10.00 
Walter C. Ivoncevic 5.00 

Joseph L. Adrian 5.00 William M. Foster 10.00 Blue Mountain Lake William J. Judge 10.00 
'VTerona Thomas R. Herbert 5.00 
Patrick F. Collins 10.00 Nicholos M. Kalmes 5.00 Rochelle Park Paul E. Hickey 5.00 
James C. Costello 5.00 Eugene A. Koskiw 5.00 Charles J. Beosley 5.00 Chorles D. Lundergon.. 1.00 Bolivar Augustine B. Kelly 5.00 
Henry L. Kochman 5.00 Francis J. Mostropietro. 10.00 

Chorles F. Riffle 5.00 Joseph P. Kelly 5.00 
Albert J. Matson 100.00 
George O. Moywolt... 10.00 

Westfield John B. Kiely 5.00 
Robert A. Nelson, Jr... 5.00 

Boselle Brewster Kngs Co. 
Williom F. Collogon.. 10.00 
G. B. Shamon 25.00 

Daniel A. DeVries 5.00 Foreman's Club _ 100.00 
William J. Degnen 10.00 John E. Walsh 10.00 Gerard M. Mergordt... 10.00 
John A. DeVries 5.00 George W. Lambert 5.00 
Kenneth R. Whipps 5.00 

Lawrence T. Eby 5.00 George P. Lone 5.00 
'Wesimont John L. Worden 5.00 Brighton 
Raymond C. Kopituk.. 4.00 John D. Laurie, Jr 5.00 Arthur J. Lintz 5.00 
Kevin B. O'Doherty 10.00  Loftus 
Frank J. Mosterson... 10.00 Thomas A. 10.00 
Au Sable Forks 

James J. Fennell 10.00 Joseph J. Long 1,000.00 West New York Joseph A. Mangono 5.00 
Louis P. Meconi. 5.00 Bronx Rutherford Edwin F. Brennan 5.00 Anthony F. Morro 5.00 
Charles S. LoBue 5.00 Philip E. Sheridan 5.00 
Avon Jomes Albert Clemens.. 5.00 Francis J. McGohren... 10.00 John T. Marshall... 3.00 George W. Dopson 5.00 Alfred J. McGrane.... 5.00 
Robert J. VonHoene... 2.00 
West Orange 

Joseph W. Skelly... 15.00 Thomas A. Dwyer 5.00 John F. McGrone 3.00 Hugh J. Devore 10.00 William J. Farrell 10.00 Sherman W. Minskey... 5.00 Thomas A. Farrell 5.00 Baldwin Worren S. Fogel 10.00  W. Mollico 1.00 
John J. Winberry 25.00 
Robert 
Salem 

Normon F. Jondoli 10.00 5 (jj) Henry R. Frey 5.00 William B. Moss 5.00 
Joseph F. Campbell 

Charles J. Theisen... 5.00 John F. McKenno 5.00 Basil G. Gillespie 5.00 Thomas Francis Mulhern. 5.00 Rev. Edmond F. Hammer 10.00 Thomas J. Mulvey 1.00 
Barker 

Soyreville VHiarton William J. Hossett 5.00 William J. Murphy.... 25.00 
Robert P. Reid 

1-00 Frank W . Honerkamp.. 5.00 
John J. Naegele 10.00 Fred. W. Honerkamp, Jr. 5.00 Stephen P. Nolan 10.00 
Eugene A. Houber 20.00 John C. Bermingham 10.00 
Batavia 

Edward J. Mahon 5.00 John Charles Noonon.. 5.00 
Short Hills Woodbridge Alfonso J. Colorco.... 
5.00 Anthony J. Moloney 5.00 Joseph T. Norris 10.00 Thomos V. Hart 20.00 John E. Nelson 5.00 Thomas G. Conty 10.00 James F. Murray 5.00  J. 5.00 
James O'Brien 

Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
Gerald A. O'Reilly.... 5.00 John F. Novak.., 5.00 Flnsltii>g> L. L 
John O'BouTke 15.00 Maurice F. Quinn 15.00 Dundee 
George G. Haggerty... 2.00 Vincent E. Dollard.... 5.00 
John J. O'Rourke 20.00 Charles E. Roesch, Jr... 10.00 
John James Sullivan.. 1.00 Robert A. Hamilton 20.00 
Charles F. Poterno 5.00 Alfred C. Ryan 25.00 
Joseph P. Kissling 5.00 
I Francis C. Pellitteri.... 10.00 Joseph F. Ryan 10.00 
Dunkirk Alphonse M. Respondek 5.00 
Wm. F. Holpin ! »' Robert J. Reale 10.00 Martin A. Ryan 10.00 

Solvatore P. Scorlala.. 2.00 
John D. Koch 10.00 

William F. Reilly 1.00 Frank A. Schiavone 5.00 
Lawrence J. Scholzlein.. 5.00 
Harry S. Swoyer 3.00 Hortadal* John J. Ross 5.00 James P. Sheedy 5.00 
William F. Schroeder.. 25.00 
Eugene L. Rossi 1.00 Kenneth J. Sheedy 7.00 William E. Cotter, Sr. 100.QO 
Albert J. Tuohy... 5.00 
East Aurora 

Robert M. Rossiter 5.00 Burton M. Shinners 15.00 
Joseph M. Walsh 10.00 
Joseph F. Russo 5.00 John H. Trovers, Jr 5.00 James D. Tanner 5.00 Hdstings-oii-HadaaB Robert C. Schroeder 5.00 Martin J. Trovers 10.00 Robert A. Callahan.... 5.00 
Forest Kllik I. L 
George N. Shea 5.00 John Uebbing 5.00 Eastchester John L. Bauer, Jr 10.00 
Joseph J. Sherer 2.00 Eugene A. Willinghanz. 5.00 Robert E. Philpott 3.00 Hcimttraw 

John C. Baum 10.00 
Andrew J. Shiebler.... 18.75 Henry E. Weiss 50.00 
William J. Morrissey.. 5.00 

William A. Baum, Jr... 4.00 
Paul J. Smaldone 2.00 Norman E. Wietig 5.00 East Elmhurst Anthony F. Earley, Jr... 10.00 
Peter J. Smaldone 2.00 Peter A. Wozniok 20.00 
Alfred J. Perrine, Jr.... 10.00 HowHienM 
F. J. Hardort, Jr 30.00 
Donald E. Stolbeig 5.00 

Thomas R. Hardort 20.00 Wm. J. Woeldner, Jr... 15.00 
Ralph R. Volvo 10.00 

Caledonia East Hempstead Richmond A. Mead, Jr. 5.00 
Casimir E. Vance 5.00 

Richard K. Lloyd 10.00 Richard C. Murphy, Jr. 10.00 
Mr. and Mrs. 
Eugene F. Voslett 10.00 

25.00 George Link Olvany.... 2.00 
Horry W . Lantry 5.00 
Louis E. Wagner 10.00 

George T. Ball-Eost Bockowa; William J. Olvany, Jr... 5.0O 
George S. Wallace, Jr.. 10.00 

Gerald Saegert 5.00 
Wm. J. Walsh ....937.50 Cambridge John Campbell Dillon.. 1.00 Hampatood 
William G. Weir 5.00 Leo J. Contwell 10.00 Joseph M. Hilbert 25.00 
East WilUston Park Fredoma 
W . Horold Welch 25.00 Charles E. Koegler 1.00 John B. White, Jr 1.00 William T. Slader S.OO •'"''n L Moloney Robert H. Smith 20.00 
1.00 
Camden 

Anthony F. Zogame 10.00 Charles H. Streater S.OO 
Joseph A. Caulfteld 2.00 
Ebenexer Ftoeport 20.00 Hempstead Goidaiis 
BuHolo Stephen P. Bonos 10.00 •'°'"» •"• "^'"y-
Cauondaigua 
Raymond Patrick Boyce. 1C.0O 
Joseph S. Angelino 2.00 

Edward J. Gretchen 15.00 FnHon 
Eggertsville 

Jomes R. Austin 5.00 
William F. Kaveny 5.00 5 00 Maurice B. Conley 25.00 Hsddmei 
John L. Hoelscher 

•
 James Wm. Baker 13.50 

J.
 Hugh Smith 3.00 Norman F. Baker 10.00 


John C. McKendry, Jr.. 5.00 Daniel C. Shoughnessy. 20.00 
Richard A. Batt 5.00 Gordra CSly 
Chazy 

EUicottrille 1.00 Heiriett 
Francis X. Bennett, Jr... 5.00 Joseph H. Dittrlch 
Gordon Bennett .. . 10.00 Andrew Spears 10.00 Francis B. Fitzpotrick.. 25 00 Jahn J. Gleason, Jr 20-00 Fronds A. Brady 5.00 Bernard J. Bird 15.00 Joseph W. Fitzpotrick.. 25 00 ^°^" ^' l^obtnson 25.00 William A. Biser 5.00 Chittenango Julian C. Tonsmeire.... 
5-00 Kghlond Falls 

Martin H. Brennon 20.00 Paul F. Tiernay 5.00 Elmhurst 
John D. Hogon 5.0O 

Thomas J. Brobson 5.00 5.00 G»nM«. 
Thomas D. Boyle Vincent J. Brown 75.00 Clinton Eugene T. Connelly... 100.00 ^'""* f- LoVigne 5.00 Hcllia Edward J. Burke 5.00 5 00 George E. Thompson.. 
George A. Richter 5.00 James J. Corbett 5.00 10.00 James William Burns.. 10.00 
William J. Klima..... 5-00 Herbert P.] Giorgio 10.00 
John G. Burns 5.00 
James D. Moron Robert J. Burns 20.00 Thomos J. Wolsh, Jr.. 10.00 
CiTde 500 GeneTo 
50.00 Roman P. Belmont Holliawood 
Daniel J. Malloy 5.00 Kingsley D. Moloy 10.00 Jos. T. DeBotf 5.00 Joseph M. Sylvester.... 5.00 
Jomes F. Casey 10.00 
Charles J. Clauss 5.00 
Elmira 

Alan H. Guard 5.00 
Lawrence F. Sibr 5.00 Paul M. Donovan..... 5 00 James E. Hurley HoaeoT* FoUa Thomos S. Condon.... 5.00 2.00 
Arithony J. Sicuronzo.. 10.00 Stephen M. Holleron. 5 00* John F. Larsen John R. Connors 25.00 5.00 
Clem F. Crowe 20.00 5.00 25.00 
Francis F. O'Brien 25.00 Clifford C. Neilson 
John D. Curtis, Jr 5.00 Cohoes 25.00 12.00 
James L. O'Dea 5 OQ Clare Leo Touhey Richord T. Donahy 2.00 
James H. Penrose 5.00 Robert W . Degenhort.. 5.00 Glendode Homell 
Endicott 

Thomas L. Dowd 20.00 
*25 00 ^°^"* ^- Cameron 10.00. 

Coming Joseph H. Kelly 10.00 Jomes J. Carey 
Owen W. Doyle 20.00 
10 00 ^°^" ^" '^"3*"* 5.00 

10.00 Chorles N. Heckelmonn Joseph E. Canny 5.00 Edward E. O'Brien... 
John P. Egan 2.00 
William J. Fallon 5.00 Peter M. Griffin Rorseheads 25.00 
Glens Fcdis 
k George W. Ferrick 5.00 Thomas L. McMahon.. 12.00 Fairport Jomes L. Prindible 10.00 Edward T. Flonigan 5.00 J. Francis Finnegon... 
Donald J. Miller 5.00 10.00 
5 00 Richard J. Collins, Jr.. 10.00 William T. Holl 5.00 Cortland 10.00 Huntington Jock I. Grey, Jr 5.00 Walter J. Scholand... 
Arthur J. McGee 
Charles A. Hannah 10.00 
H. Justin Corcoran 20.00 Farmingdale Chos.L.Huisking 2,000.00 
William F. Honnon, Jr. 5.00 Goshen 
Potric J. Quirk 5-00 William J. Eaton 5.00 Edward P. Huisking 10.00 

Jomes D. Irwin 25.00 
Wm. Horry Malesh.... 3.00 Donald G. Jackson 1.00 Maximilian G. Kozus.. 5.00 
Dannemora Far Rockawa7 nion 
J QQ Great Neck 
Maurice S. Kelly 5.00 John C. Fitzpatrick 5-00 Carl H. Gruning Patrick J. Carroll 5.00 
Thomas F. Kenny, Jr... 10.00 Robert J. Fitzpatrick 10.00 Francis j . lovelle 10.00 O. Paul Beretz 5.00 B. T. O'Shea 5.00' John H. Kuhlmonn 2.50 
Leonard Brennon Hart.. 1.00 Joseph A. Blaney 10.00 Edward F. Kumrow 5.00 Raymond Douglas Peets 2.00 James C. MocDevitt, Jr. 5.00 Ithaca 
FayetteTille 

Thos. E. Roche 5.00 
John F. LoDuco 5.00 Fred G. Blum 3.00 
Thomas M. Former 

^°-°° Charles A. Crown 10.00 
William J. Long 20.00 Darien Center Jomes J. Clynes 5.00 Jomes M. Curry 10.00 
James W. Leising 5.00 
Robert F. Dahler 5.00 
Fleetwood Charles J. Kirby 5.00 
Edmund J. Lutz 10.00 
Jackson Heights 

Wilfred B. Kirk. 10.00 J. Gregory Rice 15.00 Delevan John J. Dunleovy 1.00 
Jerome B. Magee 25.00 
William H. Manord.... 15.00 Joseph N. Morcin 5.00 John H. Donohue, Jr... 20.00 Floral Park Greenwich 
William H. Hoskins.... 10.00 Thomas J. MocDevitt.. 25.00 

Thomas Herbert McKenna 10.00 
Edward C. Duffy 5.00 Daniel J. Rourke 5.00 
Joseph C McNolly.... 5.00 

Clcaencel.McMuUen 5.00 
DeWitt Francis M. Guiney 1.00 
Jomes C. Monaghon 5.00 Eugene A. Miller ... . 5.00 Mark E. Mooney 5.00 Sigmund J. Sluszko 5.00 Hamburg 
Edward F. Murphy, Jr... 10.00 

Robl. T. Moore 5.00 
Henry E. Dendler 10.00 John L. Nonovie 10.00 
Carl J. Nogel 5.00 
Dougloston . Florence john F. Hortmon 3.00 Tierney O'Rourke 30.00 
Robert J. Nagel 5.00 
Edward F. Bourke 5.00 Paul D. Clark 5.00 Jomes H. Sullivan 10.00 F. Baden Powell 5.00 
Robert P. Nenno 10.00 
Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
William J. Powell, Jr... 5.00 Livonia Mount Ksco 
Alfred E. Gall 5.00 Roymond J. Scanlon 10.00 John F. Sullivan 
^°-°° Walter J. Murphy 5.00 Bernard A. Gorber.... 20.00 Thomas A. Galligan 30.00 Udor S. Schweitzer 25.C0 William S. Thomas 
^•°° Robert W. Prescott.... 5.00 Bobert K Goich— 25.00 Amedeo G. Sferro 5.00 Joseph C. Whitford.... 
'°-°° Mt Vemon John D. Gavan 5.00 William S. Shea 5.00 
Vincent A. Gorman -5.00 Winthiop H. Smith 1,000.00 Jamaica 
Lockport j„ . V. Carideo 5.00 
Michael P. Grace.. 27,500.00 John W. Snakard 10.00 
Williom E. Costle 5.00 Francis E. English. 10.00 Wolter J. Desel, Jr 5.00 Daniel P. Folsioni 15.00 Eugene L Q-Brien '. 500 Raymond M. Grummell. 10.00 George E. Sokolsky.... 300.00 JomesV. Donnelly, Jr... 10.00 Rev. Bernard D. McCarthy 5.00 Ernest E. Hammer 100.00 Foustin J. Solon, Jr 5.00 Eugene A. Formickella.. 10.00 ^jui^,^ E y;,,^^ ,0.00 Thomas A. Hammer 10.00 Edward N. Stem 25.00 
Newaik 

Richard J. Powers 5.00 „ o „ , ^ „ Howard Hanb, Jr 5.00 Joseph B. Stio 6.00 Raymond H. Schlesier.. 10.00 Thos.^P.^Behon ^5.00 ^;„^^j ^-^g-^, ,o.oo j^jeph F. Timlin 10.00 
Long Island City 
Joseph A." Henry 15.00 

Cyril A. Wiggins 10.00 William J. Hogon 5.00 Theodore T. Toole, Jr... 10.00 
Justin E. Hylond 10.00 Louis F. Honey 1.00 
Edword J. Hoyt 5.00 Timothy J. Toomey.... 15.00 
Richard V. Hyland.... 250.00 Paul W. O'Connell.... 5.00 
Jamaica Estates William W. Huisking.. 15.00 Joseph A. Tracy 5.00 
rr.r, DonoldT. RyoH 10.00 Eugene A. Schiltz 5.00 
John G. Jaeger 5.00 John P. Traynor 25.00 
Ffoncs P. Mortm 5.00 william T. Snyder 5.00 
Frank J. Jenny 10.00 Thomas C. Vincent.... 25.00 
Robert F. Martin 5.00 
Newburgh 

H. Cloy Johnson 50.00 Frank C. Walker 250.00 
Loudonville Johnson City 

Elmer F. Gillespie 25.00 John A. Jordan 5.00 Edward P. Walsh 937.50 Edward J. Eckert 20.00 
Hany Kalmine 400.00 Herbert M. Walsh 25.00 
Francis X. Haines........ 5.00 
Ne w Hartford John B. Konaley 10.00 Francis T. Wolther 5.00 
Robert F. McCobe 2.00 
Lynbrook 

John J. Couley 5.00 Karl F. Karey 5.00 John M. Wilson 10.00 Horry M. Burchell 5.00 Lawrence V. Keefe 15.00 John J. Wingerter 10.00 
Johnstown Theodore E. Demmerle.. 2.00 New Hyde Park Cyril A. Kelleher 10.00 Chas. A. Wisner _ 25.00 
lawrence S. Polkovic.. 10.00 
^, ., ,^, cnn Wm. W . Kelly 10.00 James E. Knox _1,000.00 Lyndonville Edword L. Arthur 5.00 •, •, j cm Niagora Falls. William J. Floch 5.00 Thomas B. Kenedy 5.00 
Jomes J. Tormey 10.00 
Kenmore ^^r'^f'^^u ^, Z John G. Byrne 50.00 New Bochelle Adrian A. Kuhn 5.00 Jomes E. Seymour 15.00 
Francis J. Cass 5.00 John S. Lavelle 25.00 
Madison 

Williom P. Cass, Jr... 5.00 Alfred M. Boehm i.OO Horry D. lavery 15.00 George John Schneider. 5.00 North Tarrytown 
Vincent A. Doigier 20.00 Wm. F. Cleory 25.00 Joseph V. Lenihon 10.00 William P. Dowdoll 25.00 Edword J. Dempsey 10.00 750 00 Ja"' " J- Sherry, Sr 5.00 
E. Lowiiz Mctlone 

Robert W. Dunn. 5.00 William H. Fallon 5.00 
Noel J. MocCorry 10.00 Milton Jos. Eisert 3.00 Ralph M. Cordinal, Jr.. 25.00 Wolter W. Fegon. 10.00 N. Tonawanda 
James P. Moguire 5.00 Thomas F. Farley, Jr... 5.00 Cornelius J. Corey, Jr.. 25.00 William H. GoIIin, Jr... 20.00 James A. Morohn 25.00 Anthony W. Brick 10.00 Joseph F. Flynn 5.00 M. C. Tockley 25.00 William E. Harrington, Jr. 5.00 
Harold J. Morsholl.... 15.00 John B. McGee 5.00 Michoel J. Martin 5.00 
J. Frank Martin 5.00 Norwich 
Williom G. O'Connell.. 7.00 Mcmhasset Valentine H. Mortin 4.00 
Anthony J. Moucieri 5.00 James W. Colemon.... 10.00 Henry J. 25.00 
Francis A. Reppenhagen 10.00 Victor W. Fischer 5.00 Francis P. McFodden 10.00 ^  McAdams Wolter D. Sullivan.... 10.00 Joseph V. Gallagher.. 25.00 Robert E. O'Hoyer.... 3.00 chaHesV. McCofferty., 1.00 
Nunda 

Richard G. Thoen 3.50 Samuel McQuoid 10.00 Frederick H. Paulmann, Jr. 5.00 Andrew J. McCaffrey, Jr. 10.00 Russel E. Voyer 5.00 George E. Milton 5.00 John L. Redmond 25.00 Arthur J. McConn 15.00 James S. Doyle 3.00 Timothy Murphy 5.00 Justin C. McConn 50.00 
Sew Gardens Jomes Cornelius Sheridan 1.00 Ne w York City Horley L McDevitf 48.75 Hyack Daniel F. Cunningham, Jr. 10.00 Thomas J. Walker 10.00 i^otre Dome Club 4,584.45 Jomes J. McGoldrick.. 40.00 Williom M. Bolchoz 3.00 Francis L Kunkel 5.00 James S. Adam s 1,000.00 Thomas Martin McGuire 5.00 Leo B. Kunkel, Jr 5.00 Massena Louis M. Argueso...... 100.00 John P. McKenna Oceonside. L I. Paul J. Moholchic 5.00 John J. Dinneen 4.00 John T. Bolfe 25.00 Edword M. McLaughlin. 
-Richard A. Metzger 5.00 

Engston Robert Jos. Beoudine.. 10.00 Leo V. McLaughlin 10.00 _ . , Harold J. Gildoy 5.00 Mechanicville •Arthur C. Bergen 5.00 Thomas J. Monogue 
5.00 Ogdensburg 
25.00 Joseph T. Bornett 5.00 

Joseph A. Mohor, Jr... 10.00 Edword T. Sullivon 10 00 Edwin A. Berkery 75.00 Abe Montague Nicholas J. Toncredi 
lo'oo Joseph Bemhord _ 25.00 Joseph S. Moore 5.00 Joseph R. Brondy 25.00 
Joseph L. Bordo 5.00 Paul F. Mueller 5.00 James S. Brown........ 10.00 Edward F. Murphy IGQ.OO Old Forge 
Lackawanna 

Froncis J. Novak 10.00 Medina Jerry Eorle Brown 5.00 Wm. F. Neory 25.00 Francis T. Crego 5 00 
C. R. Slock 15.00 
Donald V. Buchholz.... 5.00 Bro. Norbert, C.F.X 2.00 
Lake Placid 

Robert L. Cohill 200.00 Robert A. Oberfell.... 5.00 William B. Madden 20.00 
Olean 

Merrick Leonard M. Coll 5.00 Dennis J. O'Connell, Jr. 10.00 .. . 2.00 
John J. Martin 5.00 Martin V. Collogy 18.00 James C. O'Connor, Jr.. 10.00 ^°.„.-_^°^'='L°"''*''' 
William R. Fogon 5.00 

Lakeview 5 00 Robert M. Cannon 20.00 Joseph E. O'Connor 35.00 
John J. Martin, Jr^ 

Kevin P. Corley 5.00 Brendan Anthony O'Grady 1.00 
Ronald H. Zudeck 10.00 Robert L Mulcahu 2.00 Walter B. Carlson, Jr... 5.00 Daniel J. O'Neil 75.00 Oneida 
John Burke Donoghue.. 10.00 
Hugh F. Carroll 5.00 Colman B. O'Shaugnessy 10.00 John L. Behr 5.00 
Lombertville Jomes M. Carroll 100.00 H. Jerome Parker 10.00 Richard A. Bloom 25.00 

Philip J. Foherty, Jr.. ,10.00 ICddleport 
Philip J. Clarke 5.00 Joseph S. Petritz 15.00 Gerald R. Molinori 20.00 Paul H. Seomon 5.00 Henry J. Cluver 10.00 John B. Powers 5.00 Lancaster Andrew C. Botti 25.00 Gerold J. Crough 10.00 Thomas G. Proctor 35.00 
Orchard Park 

John W. Bergen 5.00 John A. Genegol 10.00 George W. Crpngeyer.. 35.00 Anthony J. Pugliese 5.00 Arthur J. Lancaster 7.50 
Berchmon J. Imholz 3.00 William F. Cronin 50.00 Charles R. Quinlon 5.00 
Francis 03oyle _ 10.00 J. Gerald Cuddihy.... 25.00 Leo J. Rasche .200.00 
Larchmont 

Thomos P. Cunningham 15.00 Charles M. Reagan 25.00 Oriskony John J. Cossidy 5.00 
Charles O. DeBorry 5.00 John B. Rearden 25.00 Daniel E. Wolerbury 
Millbum 10.00 
Jomes F. Hayes 10.00 
John F. Deegan, Jr 5.00 James P. Reeves 5.00 
Edword J. Kelly 25.00 Richard C. Corton 5.00 
John H. Doerr 10.00 Bidiard Beid _ 14.60 0.wBn 
Raymond McCobe 10.00 
John J. Dorsey 10.00 Bemord F. Reilly 2.00 wswego 
Milton 

>ba.Thas.F. O'Neil 150.00 Robert M. Dougherty.. 5.00 Francis J. Reilly 5.00 Charles F. Davis 12.50 Thomos F. O'Neil, Jr.. 50.00 Joseph J. Koley 5.00 Rev. Joseph R. English.. 5.00 James R. Retter 5.00 John A. Davis 12.50 James J. Quinn 5.00 Froncis X. Follon, Jr... 10,00 Clark L Reynolds 10.00 ""''*'* ••• '^'°"'^ ^°-'>° John F. Finneran 5.00 Harray Bichter 10.00 '''omos M. McGough.. 25.00 
Mineola LeBoy „-- Robert J. Firth 5.00 Harold C. Rizzi 5.00 
Charles F. Quinn, Jr.. 

• Williom E. Flonnery 5.00 James H. Rorke 10.00 Oxone Park Louis P. Brady, Jr. 5.00 William F. Walsh, Jr... 10. 
Fred V. Flynn 5.00 Sidney B. BoMnon 100.00 Jomes J. Atkinson 5 00 
Chester Fritz 100.00 JoMph B. Byan _l.C0O.0Q Anthony G. Bilotti lo.OO 
Uma Monticello 

M. J. Frontczok .-. 5.00 Vincent J. Ryan 5.00 John Joseph Bracken.... 2.00 James H. Gleason 10.00 Joseph G. Cooke 5.00 Gerald P. Gaffney 10.00 Leo Sanfini'. loloO Sno-'CBrosey" • • - • • • • 5-00 
Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regulor Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
Painted Post Bochester Charles J. Melzger.... 5.00 Sofder 
E. Douglas Bonham 15.00 Gerald A Ashe 25 00 ^"^^ ^' O'""""*" 5.00 W . C. Davis, Jr. 15.00 
5M 

„ ^ ^ Chorles N. Boglin.'.'.'.'.'.' 10.00 ^^"'°"'' ^ Q"'""' ^'- 'B"?? Joseph J. Dunn 15.00 Porkchesler Martin E. Bayer 10.00 ''^*°'^ 1°"''}'S"""'* ?•"' William J. Ftfrick 2.00 mica Thomas J. Hughes 10.00 William R. Bell ,(,00 George F. W.nkler, Jr.. 25.00 Carlos H. Frank 10.00 
5M
Aurelio M. Zoib 10.00 

Charles A. Bragg 10.00 John J. Hodson 10.00 
15.00 Pearl Biver Harold P. Burke 15.00 Daniel C Sheedy 5.00 
A. Chorles Hiizelbtrgtr 2SJ» 
Bom* 

Charles L. Cunniff 5.00 Thomas A. Burns 5.00 John E. Kelly 
zm

Hector Joseph Moriani.. 5.00 Robert J. CoIIaghon.... 5.00 Frederick F. Herbst.... 2.00 Sonlh Heovrteud John f. Kcllcy 
10.00 

Edward H. Carson 15.00 lester L. lovier 35.00 
Jordan T. Hargrove 10.00 Chorles C ledormonn.. 5.00 PeekskUI Roymond D. Casaretto.. 20.00 
SM 

William C. O-Connor.. 5.00 Bernard J Connelly.... 5.00 Boriyn Height. Stalan Uoad 75M James J. Torpy , QQ Frank X. Connelly...... 5.00 v^^jm^^ Q „,„,„ ,000 Alex J. Colgon.. 10.00 Edward Hilary Nooncm 2M 
Peter J. Connelly, Jr... 10.00 Edward J. Swetnay.... IT 11 John E. Conway 15.00 _ 
John J. Roche 10.00 5M 
Pelham ^^^^^^ ^ Corcoran.... 1.00 "» " 
SvBm VolI#rSln<ni . . 
Louis P. Doyle 10.00 Robert L. Corcoran 5.00 Richard J. Barber 10.00 
John C. Pelrone.. 15.00 Jerome P. Hendel...... 1.00 
John T. Ford 2.00 j^ j ^ Cuzzetto, Jr 10.00 Frank S. McCullough.. 5.00 
William C Johnson 5M

Augustin S. Hardart, Jr. 25.00 p„„cis E. DeClerck.... 5.00 Raymond M. Williams.. 5.00 
9QBlflBliK 
Edmund E. Harvey lO-M Anthony E. DeSimon.... 5.00 
5.00 Venwi 

Alton C. Velie William R. Amonn. 
James A. Vorgo 5.00 j^^n G. Doschel 5.00 St Albans 
Edward Jos. Dowling, Jr. 10.00 prancis W.. Dowling.... 5.00 10.00 
Wesley D. Forman 3.00 

George M. Q-Neil, Jr.. 20.00 ^„„^,^ j pi^^ ,000 Snnnyside 
Everett W. Menard 10.00 

Mork G. Eilers 10.00 Charles S. Schieck 5.00 WanWl 
Vincent T. Murphy 10.00 
Penfield 

Joseph P. Flynn 25.00 John low 5.00 
Daniel G. Sullivan 3.00 

Lawrence E. Carpenter, 5.00 Froncis G. Geotner 15.00 SyraciiMt Joseph M. Geraghty 5.00 WoteilowB 
James E. Barrett 5.00 Penn Yaa John F. Heagney 5.00 SL George 
Edward J. Burke, Jr 10.00 Thomas P. Bergin...... 5.00 Victor Corcoran... 5.00 John M. Hedges, Jr 10.00 C. Joseph Hyland 5.00 10.00  10.00 
 F. Williams. Cote Leo J. Boettinger....... David B. Hennessy 5.00 
Robert E. Cox 10.00 Bernard R. Duclos 5.00 Philadelphia Henry F. Johantgen.... 10.00 • Saranac Lake Eugene N. Daly 5.00 John Roymond Galloway 1.00 James V. Jones 5.00 
Frederick T. De tony... 5.00 
^'''°" J-°"'''= ^•°° LaurVnce" F.^KeVly:!!!!! i.OO Francis E. Buckley 3.00 
Robert E. Dewey 10.00 Watamll* 
John R. Klee 8.00 ^•^'""^ '• Kennedy.... 10.00 
Williom V. Dv«yer 5.00 
Plandome John T. Bourke 10.00 
Edward F. Mulflur 10.00 

Chester S. Lompert 10.00 
Jacob E. Eckel 50.00 
Norman F. Bourke . 10.00 

Edward J. Beckmon.. 
12.00 Raymond F. Margrett.. 5.00 
Robert E. Gaff.iey 2.00 Joseph A. McCabe 5.00 Saugeities 
Richard H. Greene 5.00 Wuvwly Flattsburgh Ambrose C. McPortlond. 5.00 Anthony J. Buono 5.00 
Rev. Frank J. Horrison. 25.00 
Francis J. Qohessy.. 5.00 

CMf A-J-ewis.. 15.00 Mrs. Margaret Mc-Rev. John G. Harrison. 15.00 
Harris L. Shepard 5.00 
Quaid 6.00 Sarannah James H. Huxford 5.00 
Wairfand 

Joseph J. Kearney.... 20.00 
Raymond J. Mead 3.00 A. Benjamin Saeli 5.00 
PleasantTille Victor M. Kimmel 5.00 
Daniel A. Kelley 10.00 Paul E. Pfeiffer 10.00 
Thomas J. Meagher 10.00 
Peter J. Reilly 5.00 Rj^^ard J. Miller 5.00 Leo D. Kelley 75.00 
SoTTille 

Eorl C. Schroder 10.00 f^,„gjj g Morrison.... 10.00 Edwin W . Kenefoke.... 5.00 Richard C. Miller 10.00 Henry M. Kirk, Jr 5.00 
Reginald A. Morrison.. 10.00 Port'Chester John T. Murray, Jr 10.00 Generoso A. Lambiente 5.00 Paul D. Holbert 5.0O 
John E. McAuliffe 10.00 
Robert D. McAuliffe 5.00 WeOsvilte 
Joseph P. Carlucci 5.00 Stanford E. Murray 10.00 Scorsdale 
Peter G. Cossone 5.00 Charles M. Norton 10.00 Terence C. Donahue 5.00 John P. Mulderig 20.00 
Richard F. De Buono... 2.00 Francis A. Norton 10.00 Frederick J. Fohrendorf 20.00 Robert N. Donovan 3.00 John J. Nyikos 20.00 
Stephen S. Dietrich 2.50 John Norton 5.00 Joseph R. Glennon, Jr.. 10.00 
Patrick D. Putnam 5.00 
Philip A. O'Connor 10.00 YVesliiiiiy 
John J. Ross 5.00 
Port Henry Robert C. Odenboch... 20.00 Schenectady Daniel R. Hnn 10.00 
Hubert J. Schofly, Jr... 10.00 
William A. Carpenter.. 15.00 ^'^'"°"' ••• O'Hora.... 3.00 
John H. Terry 12.24 
William D. O'Toole.... 5.00 Henry C. Brosey 5.00 West Bnghtoa 
Rev. Jos. B. Toomey 10.00 
j,^-ut I.-_. Thomas B. Owen 10.00 Edmund P. Cleary 15.00 
Hawley E. Von Swoll.. 5.00 Bv> ond MIS. 
Port Washington Valentine R. Pieronek.. IQ.OO Charles J. Flanigan.... 5.00 
Thomas A. Wolker, Jr.. 10.00 SGItea T. Bisliop 25.00 
William P. McCarthy.. 5.00 Anthony J. Pizzarelli.... 15.00 John A. Holland, Jr 5.00 
Nicholas J. Salerno James G. Wallace 10.00 
5.00 Kenneth E. Power 15.00 John J. Huether 25.00 
West Hanvitead 

Stephen R. Quinn 3.00 John F. Hurley 3.00 
Pouglilceepsie ncoiMief09Ci John F. Boyle ; 10.00 
Emil J. Riedman 15.00 Francis M. Lmehon.... 5.00 
Robert J. McPodden 3.00 

5 00 Albert W. Roche....... 5.00 Richard A. Carney 2.00 Rev. Richord L. Fallon,};. loloO Joseph A. Rorick....... 5.00 Thomas F O-Molley John F. Lowson 10.00 White FIoiD* 
J. William Drumgould. 
5.00 
5 00 Thomas J. Reilly 15.00 

Richard R. McCobe.... 1.00 C. Donald Sconfietti.... 
_ . Michoel J. Adrian 110.00 
Anthony A. Rinella 10.00 

Maurice E. Sheehan 5.00 Tonawanda ^^^^^ j Bortnett.... 2.00 
James W. Schoeffer 20.00 

Queens Village Robert F. Simmons Henzr I. BoIHiig—400.00 M. A. Brule 5.00 John James Duffy 2.00 Richard T. Sullivan.... 10.00 Lawrence L. Weiss 10.00 
5.00 Stephen A. Szumochowski 2.00 

Michael John Cutt 5.00 Harold B. Desnoyers... 10.00 
Rev. Louis L. Harmon.. 1.00 Francis L Duquette 5.00 
Walter G. Hillis 20.00 Charles G. Topping.... 10.00 chorles E. Welsh 5.00 
Bernard A. Mago 25.00 Rev. Chorles A. Lc«.... 10.00 
Williom J. McCloy, Jr.. 5.60 William T. Whelehan.. 5.00 George E. York 25.00 
David D. Reid, Jr. 1.00 William F. Tolbof 15.00 
Robert C. Schneider.... 5.00 Victor G. Yowman.... 250.00 
William E. Young 5.00 
Scotia Ttof
Harold E. Zimmer 5.00 Whitsston* Bedwood John A. Loritsch 5.00 
Thos. V. Dollard.. 25.00 
Paul R. Kane 5.00 

George T. Biittner 5.00 Bockaway Beach Daniel P. Mahoney 15.00 Seneca Falls George P. O'Doy 25.00 
Eugene J. O'Rourke 15.00 ixnniaoMvin* 
Bichmond IGll 

Thomas E. Reilly 5.00 "'chord S. Kelleher.... 10.00 
William J. Bogon 5.00 

Tadtdie* 
Charles G. Lyden 10.00 James J. Rogers 12.50 Stephen L. Kelleher. 10.00 
Bartholomew W . Cotalon* 25.00 , W. J. Straub 5.00 Robert F. Rogeri!!!!!! 10.00 John A. Bortley 25.00 
A. E. Jenkins..... 50.00 

John J. Gorvey 5.00 
Silrer Creek 
Donald W . Lov* 10.00 

Frederick J. Goebcler, Jr. 5.00 
. Birerdale Bockrille Centre Robert P. Galloway 10.00 William A. MMSM^.... 5.00 
Lawrence J. Goebeltr.. 5.00 
George H. Rohrs 10.00 
William A. Daunt 25.00 John A. Hoyt, Jr....... 15.00 Edward A. Fallon 10.00 Skaneatole s Thomos F. Lontiy 10.00 WoodttQTsa ­, BiTerhead Joseph G. Friel 10.00 Dave Huxford 5.00 Thomos M. Philpott.... 5.00 Joseph A. Cdllohon 5.00 James J. Hubbard, Jr... 2.00 William A. Kennedy.... 5.00 Robert H. Woterbury.. 2.00 John B. Sullivan 5.00 John J. Kearney, Jr : 5.00 ' 
Regular Face Type—^Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in ine Master Toble, poges 9 to 17. 
Victor R. Mercado 5.00 Minot Bellaire William A. Castellini.. 5.00 Robert E. Dowd... 2.00 Robert C. Chenal 5.00 Jos. A. Dubbs, Sr.. 50.00
3.00

Lawrence F. O'Connor. James A. Clifford 5.00 John J. Molik 20.00 
James R. Clark, Jr 25.00 Daniel W . Duffy.. 40.00
Pr. and Mrs. John O. Robinson 5.00 
John C. Cottingham.... 10.00 P. Dunne 100.00
Woodside E. G. Demots 100.00 Edmund A. Sargus 10.00 
Emmett H. Crowe 10.00 Thomas E. Enright 10.00 Albert D. Corey 
10.00 Geo. A. McGee 10.00 Francis Wallace 25.00 
John M. Crowley 5.00 Robert E. Fought 5.00 Francis J. Conforti 10.00 
Thomas E. Crumley 10.00 Francis J. Gannon 25.00 Frank L. Kone....' 
5.00 Mott Bellefontaine 
Robert L. Davis 5.00 Philip C. Geoghegon, Jr. 10.00 Robert V. Trousdale. 5.00 Hugh Wm. McCouley.. 15.00 
Howard F. Doll 10.00 Edward T. Gough 5.00 
Yonkers Thos. E. O'Connor 20.00 
H. B. Drackett 200.00 Norman J. Greeney 10.00 
Charles N. Beretz 5.00 James J. Gallagher.... 10.00 Alfred C. Grisonti 20.00 Thomas F. Corty, Jr... 5.00 Maurice C. Gerwe 25.00 Robert C. Grisanti 3.00
BelleTue
OAi'o 

Thomas J. Cooney 10.00 John B. Phipps 5.00 Francis J. Gilligan 100.00 Rev. Poul J. Hollinon.. 5.00 Thomas F. Gologher.. 5.00 Alcron Chos. E. Ruffing 100.00 Horry J. Gilligan 100.00 Joseph V. Heimonn.... 50.00 Raymond J. Kenny.. 5.00 Clarence J. Kozok 10.00 15.00
Notre Dame Club., 100.00 John J. Gilligan 100.00 Edward T. Herold William A. Lynch 10.00 
William F. Ahern, Jr... 10.00 Jerome H. Gohman 5.00 Paul D. Holohon 5.00 Andrew R. Moffci 20.00 Roy Conkltn Bailie 10.00 Beverly George W. Greene, Jr. 10.00 Thomas E. Horok 15.00 James P. Mansfield.. 5.00 Poul A. Bertsch 6.00 Thurmon Lee Coss 5.00 Raymond W. Gudmens. 5.00 Thomas E. Horak 15.00 John H. McCabe.... 1.00 Richard S. Botzum 10.00 Walter J. Heekin, Jr... 5.00 George G. Kerver 10.00 
James C. Murray 25.00 William G. Burkhardt.. 50.00 Bexley Robert J. Hellmon 3.00 William C. Keyes 10.00 Joseph A. Sonsone.. 3.00 Hugh M. Colopy 5.00 Myron E. Hood 25.00 Francis E. Kiener 5.00
Daniel F. Cannon 10.00 Edward T. Tighe 10.00 John A. Dettling, Jr 25.00 Jerome H. Hugger 5.00 Edword B. Killeen 100.00 John M. Doron, Jr 10.00 Bowling Green Robt. W . Hughes 25.00 George R. Kinney 5.00 YorkviUe Patrick C. Doran 50.60 Lawrence J. Jonszen.... 1.00 John A. Koenigshoff 10.00
Robert A. Foos 2.00 Louis P. Clorlc 5.00 5.00 P. 2.00
Edward J. Dunlavy, Jr... Robert Joseph Williom A. Krider 5.00 Arthur R. Dutt 10.00 John J. Kelly 3.00 Edward W. Lokner 25.00
Canton 

Francis J. Ferrante 3.00 Robert J. Leonard 10.00 George E. Leppig 10.00 PoulB. Belden, Jr 10.00
Clinton D. Firestone, Jr-1.00 J. Russell Longon 10.00 George J. Leroux 5.00 Richard F. Belden 15.00
N. Carolina Edword F. Fisher 25.00 Edw. F. Lynch 20.00 John A. Liener 10.00 William H. Belden.... 15.00
Asheville Albert A. Hilkert 25.00 John H. Lynch 10.00 Daniel W. Long 5.00 Arthur W. Conley 10.00
Edmund A. Hinderscheid 15.50 James R. McCofferty... 10.00 John E. Lynch 5.00
Edward J. Koontz 25.00 
James A. Conley 15.00

Claude H. Horning 15.00 Robert V. McCoy 5.00 Richard Mohoney 10.00Mr. and Mrs. Norman B. Conley 5.00
Arthur C. Keeney 5.00 Paul J. McKee 5.00 Earl E. Martersteck 10.00
J. O. Beynolds— 5.C0 Richard M. Conley 10.00
Thomas C. Kelley 10.00 Thos. F. McMohon..... 25.00 William J. Mozonec.... 5.00 
Glenn T. Dubs 10.00 

Edward W . Mersmon, Jr. 5.00
John M. Kelly 15.00 W. D. McArthur _ 1 500.00
Charlotte Robert V. Gschwend 2.00 Kenneth
Joseph A. Kelly 2.00 Forrest Merten. 3.00 
Arthur Bernard McBride 2,!,501.00

Donald R. Hoines 3.00 Norbert P. Horbert 4.00 Florence J. McCorthy, Jr. 10.00 
James A. Malcolm 15.00 Robert J. Kolb 5.00 Joseph B. Moorman, Jr. 10.00 
Joseph H. Kraker 20.00 Jos. S. Morrissey 65.20 
Paul H. Hockwolt 2.00 Francis K. McCorty 5.00
Lourinburg Jos. G. Kromer 50.00 John Joseph Murphy.... 2.00 
Bernard J. Keffler 5.00 Hiram G. McCorty.. 1 ,000.00 Anthony Lefatch _ 25.C0 Nienaber 5.00
Walter J.

Edmond F. Boddour 10.00 Charles A. Kolp, Jr 10.00 Grant H. McKay, Jr.... 8.00 30.00 
John D. O'Malley 5.00Raymond F. Baddour.. 10.00 Theo. N. Ley Edward A. Mohoney, Jr. 25.00 Robert V. McLaughlin.. 5.00
Charles J. O'Leary.... 10.00 Robert E. Molone 5.00
10.00
Samuel G. Rizk 5.00 Thomas S. Morkey Norman J. McLeod 25.00
Raymond J. Pellmon 2.00
John J. McCourt 5.00 Bernard Meter 5.00
George P. Moloney, Jr. 1,020.00 

Joe C. Peurrung 25.00Raleigh Philip F. Myers 5.00 James J. McQuern 25.00 Donald C. Miller 10.00
William F. Pye 10.00
Wm. J. O'Neill 3.00 Gerald W. Miller 10.00
Lawrence J. Motter 10.00 Howard M. O'Prey 5.00 Ray T. Miller 100.00 
C. F. Powers, Jr 5.00 Walter I. Rouh 5.00 
Robert S. O'Brien 15.00 Murray Powers 10.00 Sister Mary Paula_ 100.00 J. Rohan Walter R. Miller 5.00 
Rev. John S. Regan 5.00 George S. Roberts 2.00 
Andrew 10.00 Cornelius A. Rouh 20.00 J. F. Rebillot 10.00 
Sylvester M. Mobily 5.00

Salem Howard A. Rohan 125.00 
Walter J. Monocelli 25.00

Theodore C. Schaetzle.. Frank J. Schirack 5.00
5.00 Richard W . Scollon 20.00
Marcellus C. Kirchner.. 15.00 Charles A. Mooney, Jr. 10.00
Steven J. Sitko 10.00 Jos. C. Sexton 15.00 A. 15.00
Bertrand Schloemer. Frank E. Steel 10.00 Paul E. Smith.....:.... 5.00 
Rev. Michael L. Moriarty 112.50

Fred A. Voglewede 10.00
Swonnonoa Sylvester A. Steinle 5.00 Edward P. Streb 5.00 Jos. H. Morris,. 25.00
Theodore J. Wrockloge 25.00 
0. Joseph Judge 5.00 Michael D. Stoley 15.00 Richard J. Ungoshick... 15.00 Robert L. Morrissey 5.00 Forest J. Swartz 10.00 George R. Walsh 1.00 Patrick J. Mulligan,. Jr. 15.00
CiideTille 
Thomas P. Mulligan.... 10.00Waynesville 5.00 Jos. I, Smith, Jr 20.00 
David D. Torr 

Ralph J. Vinciguerro 10.00 Celina John P. Murphy 1,000.00 
Russell S. Underwood.. 5.00 
Vincent B. Murphy 5.00

Joseph T. Washko 5.00 
Walter R. Bernard ' 5.00 Stephen J. Wozniok 25.00 
CleTelcmd Frederic S. Noegele 10.00
R. John Miller 10.00 Thomas W. Wukovits.. 5.00 Notre Dame Club 9,,000.00 Albert T. Nonovic 55.00 
N. Dakota Central Ohio Francis Xavier Baumert.. 10.00 Hugh M. O'Neill.... 1,550.00 Jon R. Belion 10.00 John A. Penote 10.00 
Bismarck Alliance Notre Dome Club 100.00 
Horry W . Block, Jr 10.00 Vincent S. Penote 10.00 Rev. Elwood E. Cossedy 5.00 James C. Fesler 10.00 Rev. Bernard A. Blatt.. 50.00 Anthony B. Polito 5.00 
Wilbur F. Doll 15.00 George A. Whittinghom 3.00 Chagrin Falls George J. Blatt 10.00 Joseph M. Prokop 5.00 
William P. Webb 5.00 Francis J. O'Neill 25.00 Norman Daniel Bradley. 25.00 John J. Raleigh 50.00 Arlington Roger P. Brennon 15.00 Norbert H. Roscher.... •5.00 
Fargo William J. Brennon 5.00 William S. Reaume 5.00 Louis F, Buckley 15.00 John J. Reidy 15.00 
Wilbur Dale Shellenborger 2.00 Chillicothe 
Kenneth J. Collins 15.00 William C. Boader 5.00 
Leo J. Burby...:.. 4.00 Chester F. Rice 25.00
John G. Nilles 1000 Ashland John H. Nolon 5.00 
Alfred A. Burger.' 10.00 Frederick A. Ricker, Jr.. 1.00
Edward A. Simonson — 
William H. Nolan 25.00
10.00 

Cyril J. Caldwell 25.00 Martin A. Rini ;o.oo
Norbert A. Seidensticker 5.00

Richard P. Elliott 2.00 
James L. Callahan 5.00 Charles E. Rohr, Jr 200.00
Grand Forlcs 

Ashtabula Nelson J. Callahan 5.00 Thomas F. Ryan 5.00 
2.00 Cincinnati 
Paul W. Carroll 5.00 Claude J. Schmidle 10.00
Andrew S. Cherney 5.00 
Richard H.'A'Heorn 5.00 Mn. Bolland A. Case 5.00 Albert J. Shipacasse 5.00
John P. Mohoney, Jr... 2.50
Hebron 5.00 Frank D. Celebrezze 5.00 Frederick J. Slockford.. 25.00
Charles P. Monoghan.. 3.00 Francis P. Wyrens 5.00 
Andrew P. Barton 25.00 David Joseph Chompion 5.00 Jos. F. Smith 5.00
John W. Zoback 25.00 
5.00 Pierre Champion 5.00 Joseph E. Sotok, Jr 3.00 
3.00 Stanley B. Cofoll 25.00 John J. Sporor 10.00
Jamestown 
Barberton 

John B. Brodberger, Jr. 35.00 John F. Colangelo 15.20 Robert N. Stock 5.00 Charles R. LeFevre 1.00 
15.00 Dwight W. Broemon 10.00 Myron E. Oowford 10.00 Robert H. Strieker, Jr... 10.00 Vincent J. Bernard 10.00 Robert C. Burke 25.00 Frank X. Cull 25.00 Robert E. Sullivan . 1.50 
Mandan 20.00 25.00 Jerome C. DeClercq 5.00 Jos. H. Thompson 10.00 Francis A. Grunenfelder 10.00 Albert P. McGuire 20.00 Peter J. Costelli 2.00 Philip E. Doell 10.00 Donald L. Toker 
3.00 
5.00

25.00 Thomas H. Weigond 5.00 Albert D. Castellini 10.00 Joseph F. Donahue..^.' ,5.00 Daniel J. Tomcik 
Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table; pages 9 to 17. 
Edward J. Tomcik, Jr... 5.00 Thomas J. Sheehon 5.00 Emt LiTeipooI James W. Dunham 10.00 Tronaportation Frank H. Vogel 5.00 Raymond T. Duffy 40.00 George Wm. Gordon. S-OO R. F. Ryan ;... 10.00 Inc. .1,500.00 Charles O. Weilbacher
" • " *-°° Albert J. Michels, Jr... 10.00 Sylvester L. Haas 10.00 Jama H. Seifert 10.00 
Richard D. Tupta 10.00 Joseph E. Hanratty..:, 10.00 Robert C. Slreb 10.00 Bernard J. Turnock 5.00 Connectut n,,._, Hugo J. Hildebrandt 15.00 William D. Waltz 5.00 William J. VonRooy 15.00
lO-OO Raymond W. Roach.. 10.00 John J. Kane, Jr Frank J. Waldeck, Jr... 10.00 Emil Slovak 5.00 Robert' C. Kohl 5.00 ManmM Rev. Otis S. Winchester 10.00 John J. Levicki
Coshocton ^j' ^ John W. Hockett, Jr... 10.00 
Robert . Mazanec..
Fuaene A. Woznicki 10.00u.uu _, r^ I J i; nn £lTri<l nwu c jJ. ,wiujbuiiv>—. 
Aitiiur J. Zales 

1-00 Waited R' Rader 1000 Harold J. Borres 15.00 Edmund F. McClarnon. 5'?0 Msntor Louis R. Zontini 5.00 Z."/\,r°.^." ,„ ™ Allan W. Fritzsche.... 75.00 Robert J. McCready.... 5.00
Robert C. Weaver 10.00 15 00 Stanley J. Lechowick 5.00
Arthur F. Glasow 5.00 F-Jerome McKeever.... 
John C. Kelleher 5.00 Howard A. Miller 10.00 „ . .
Cleveland Heights Crestline 

25 QQ MiHIIIIlPlttJ

Rev. Edward J. Seward. 10.00 •>• O'Neill
J Blntt 10 00 • .1 • ,-i in nn Kev. cowora J. sewaro. lu.UU °«""'5
Edanr — -— — •— 
10.00 John I. DiMatteo 10.00

tdgarJ. Blatt O.UO Jerome Aloysius Coleman 20.00 c • p , , ,„ 00 Jerome G. Reidy James L._Bou_rke_^^....... 10.00 Herbert J. Frye 15.00 F""-^ E. Seward 20.00 f^,.^.^ ^^„J^.^^j^ 
5.00 Rex E. Weaver 5.00 

Walter L. Brehmer.... 5.00 ^^^ j . jconlon 10.00 
Cletus P. Schneider 25.00
Euclid
Joseph A. Breig 3.00 

Lawrence J. Stitt 5.00 IiEddoUoa Thomas F. Bremer 5.00 Cuyahoga Falls Otty J. Cerney 5.00 , D T: „ 
5.00 Earl G. Keezer 5.00

A .L 1,~ 11 L cnn James R. Tinny
Thomas F. Byrne 25.00 

Gerald H. Klein 10.00 James E. Uprichord... 5.00
Arthur J. Gallagher 5.00 , c it—V
John F. Coleman 10.00 

,„. „ William P. Murray.... 5.00 Herman M. Winterich. 5.00 BiCddletown
Charles H. Kane 5.00
John J. Collins, Jr, 

'°-°° Edgar J. Roub 15.00 Poul C. Winterich
Edward H. Schroeter 10.00 ^•°° Claude A. Sorg 20.00
Lawrence L. Evert, Jr.. 

,^;°° Joseph J. Scolise 5.00 
Richard J. Hockmon... Findlay 
Lancaster HiGneral City
Robert H. Hockmon... Robert P. Alge 10.00 
Horry F. Kilburger.
Paul Wilfred Hockmon. 10.00 --„ Charles P. Terry 3.00 ^'9? Karl V. Hoover 5.00 
Robert J. McBride. 
3.UU

Alfred J. Hammer, Jr.. 15 00 Andrew A. Aman, Jr 5.00 Louis A. Urbonski 200.00 2 00 F. Walter Boumon 25.00
William F. Longley... IiGngo Innelion 
10.00 Leetonia
CharTes G. Lelbrn"!!!! 10^00 Francis C. Blosius, Jr, 
Fostoria 
-nn Josper F. Cava 5.00

Solvetore A. Bontempo.. 25.00 Michael P. BurickClayton G. Leroux 10.00 
Mr. and Mrs. ,gj ^ Edw. J. Pfister.... 5.00
Francis R. Buhl 10.00 Vincent F. LavelleCharles J. Mocoluso 5.00 
Ludan E. Kinn 2,000.00

15 00 Charles F. Clophom 2.00
John F. McDonald, Jr.. 

Francis M. Morley 5.00 fEnster Thomas M. McLaughlin. 10.00 J"'" " '^-"^""'"^ ^•°° laina 
Richard P. Frierott 3.00 

Edward J. McOsker 25 00 5 00 John Thomas C. Ferneding C. Ferneding. 5.00 5.00 Henry F. Barnhort.
Franklin 200.00 William C. Mulligan... 
John A. Bond 10.00 Francis W.Durbin. 10.00 Movaa Vernon
10.00

Euge;;w:ob;;^:::;: i:«o [-v^;^-:::::: 'i:™ wmamrs;«;:-j,::::: lao^^tj-^ , -Robert Overmeyer..
2500 F. 10.00
Pierce J. O'Connor... 10.00 

Geo. W. Shonohan
Robert A. Hollencomp.. 5.00 John T. Riley 10.00
Daniel R. Poloski 5.00 William R. Ryan, Jr... 2.00 Edward W. Hoyne 10.00 P„„„„, London Napoleon 
J. Forrell Johnston 10.00 Fremont
Samuel F. Silvestro 5.00 1000 John H. Crohdn 5.00 Robert W. Kennedy.... 15.00 Horry P. Gottron, Jr.... 10.00 Wilfred T. Dwyer Eugene P. Kiefer 5.00 Richard J. Leite 10.00 Newark
Clyde 

Samuel J. Gibbons 50.00 Lorain 
Girord E. Besonceney.. 3.00

James (>1. Cullen 10.00 Jerome Lawrence Louse 
5.00 Greenville John P. Choplo 
25"0 ir^in LGoldman 5.00 Frederic G. Mourer, Jr. ^-O" James E. Blocher 3.00 Frederick G. Ferguson. 
"'•''° Charles A. McGonogle.. 25.00 Eugene A. Moyl 10.00 Joseph D. Monix 5.00 Robert S. Howley
Coldwater ^•"^ John W. Murphy 5.00 Jos. B. Murphy 25.00 Roymond H. Monix.... 5.00 William A. Kelleher, Jr. 10.00
Williom J. Otte 10.00 

John F. D. O'Brien.... 5.00 Richard J. Martinek...
Robert M. Schulz. 3.00 500 New London
Franklin R. Pachin 20.00 Edward P. Reidy.
Grove City 
,000 Rev. John E. Duffy.... 50.00

Richard B. Pohl 5.00 
Jos. A. Svete
Cornelius J. Conley... 5.00

Columbus Henry T.Rohl 10.00 Leo C. Svete 
10.00 „ ,o 1.-_. ^0 00 Joseph J. Schaefer, Jr... 5.00 New Washington
Guido A. Alexonder 
Hamilton

Korl W. Scherer 5.00 Louisville George A. Uhl 15.00
Joseph S. Bodge. 23.00 , . , r mnn W. E. Sheo 25.00 Louis C. Baden 5.00 
Andrew J. Chlebeck... 5.00 „ ,
JohnJ Cannon. ...10.00 gj^^^j c. Steiner, Jr... 5.00 Thomas J. Bov 10.00 Edword G. Contwell... 125.00 ^.^^.^^ ^ ^^^^^^ ^ ^ ^^^^^^ ^ ^.^,^_ j ^ 5 ^ J. Bernard Gero 20.00 Hues 
O. W. Crepeou 5.00 John B. Metzger '. 20.00 Leonard A. Blum 10.00 James L. Teagorden 20.00 Morcellus A. Fiehrer 25.00
Thomas L. Cronin 10.00 Martin M. Brutz 1.00 
Thos. B. Devine 2.00 Jos. L. Trent 20.00 Frederick L. Meyers.... 5.00 Lyndhuist Charles W . Eaton 5.00 John R. Vicars 5.00 Clem Pater, Jr 35.00
Roymond J. Etchenloub 15.00 

Robert A. Leibin
Hugh E. Wall, Jr 10.00 Jerome A. Ryon 10.00 ^•°° North Baltimore
Thomas J. Elder .. 10.00 Jock A. Williamson.... 10.00 Harry F. Walsh 10.00
William A. Fish .. 5.00 Glair J. Blockall 10.00 Walton J. Wuebbold.. 10.00 Madison
John C. Fontona 29.85 James L. Fitzpatrick 20.00 
• Defiance
Robert J. Fushelberger.. 5.00 Martin L. Ingwersen 10.00 Poul E. Miller 25.00 John W. Gordon, Jr.... 10.00 August B. Fipp 5.00 Hillsboro Leo E. Hall 10.00 Edward J. Hummer 5.00 James M. Potton 10.00 Mansfield 
NorwaUc 

Lawrence H. Holter...'. 5.00 Carl F. Mekus 10.00 
John J. Clark 
10-00 John W . Boltes 25.00

Donold R. Hoverick 5.00 Hubbard 
Peter F. Moritz 20.00 Clifford F. Brown 10.00
Robert T. Hooffstetter.. 30.00 Delaware 
James J. Boyle 10.00 John C. O'Donnell. 10.00 Thomos M. Brown 25.00 Henry G. Hughes 5.00 Rev. Wm. C. O'Brion.. 10.00 
Richard L. Walter... 5.00 Robert J. Dempsey 10.00 
James J. Hughes 12.50 Francis H. Strohm 10.00 
Huron Neill W . Eberf 10.00 
Thomas M. Hughes 12.50 Williom J. Rsher 10.00 
Mople Heights Paul F. Kluding 3.00
George J. Igel...'. 2.00 Delphos 

15 00 Cornelius J. Ruffing.... 50.00 {olin Wm-Jaeger 15.00 ^ouis H. Kundert 10.00 
Robert J. Povlin 
Kenton 

Carl J. Kegelmoyer.... 10.00 James O. Lang..! 10.00 ^ oil , •: nn 
NorwoodMarietta

Le° J-Kletzly lO-OO John J. Myers. 110.00 Eugene P. Lounsberry.. 5.00 
Joseph E. Kumler 10.00 "ooe'' H. Zeis 20.00 August T. Sieron 10 00 August L. Bondi 15.00 Edward J. Lynch 5.00 
Dover Harrison T. MacDonold. 3.00 Osbom
Lakewood Vincent I. Weber 5.00 
Monon 
Foul A. McDonald 10.00 James P. Archer 25.00 ^jgg Walter T. Grady 20.00
Theodore P. Frericks
William A. McGowan.. 10.00 Hugh E. Boll 10.00 East Cleveland 2-00 Ottawa
Robert D. Luke
Edward A. Moriarty 10.00 Rev. George R. Belting.. 10.00 
Doniel M.-Murphy
Louis C. Murphy, Jr 10.00 John C. Deose 25.00 Thomas Charles Burns.. 5.00 ^•^ Edward F.Tobe 5.00
Robert F. Ohmer
Horry P. Nester 5.00 Harold V. Marley 10.00 John P. Butler.., 10.00 Joseph G. Rotondo 10.00 Francis M. Payne, Jr... 10.00 J. Patrick Canny 25.00 PainesviUo Martin's Fairy
Joseph E. Ryan 5.00 Frederick J. Payne 10.00 John T. Doyle 5.00 John H. Begley 10.00 Williom J. Seidensticker 25.00 Matthew A. Payne 10.00 Robert T. Duffy 10.00 louis F. Eiek. 25.00 Roderick L. Trousdale.. 20.00 
Regular Face' Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City ond state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
10.00 Jos. L. Wetli 10.00 Edmund A. Massulo.... 10.00 Drumright Andrew L. Hellmuth 25.00 Robert F. Weyburne 1.00 Francis A. Mastriana.. 5.00 Farris P. Soffo 25.00 
Parma Francis A. Halloron.... 

Cyril W . Neff 10.00 
Paul F. Hellmuth 10.00 Walter W. Wilcox 10.00 John L Mayo, Jr 2.00 George F. Kavanaugh.. 
5.00 Hartley R. McCullion.... 5.00 Elk City 
Kqua 

10.00  25.00 
Francis C. Link . Troy James A. McGlew Edw. J. Story 15.00 
Edward G. Benkert 5.00 
10.00 William J. Meyer 4.00 
Michael J. Sconlon 
Marion R. Burkholder.. 8.00 

C. Arnold Thoma 10.00 
10.00 Richard G. Miller 5.00 
Roger J. Shouvlin El Bene 
G. E. Moron 5.00 
Uhrichsville 

Port Clinton Egan C. von Merveldt.. 5.00 
John F. Moron 10.00 Robert J. Heil 10.00 
Steubenville 

Robert F/ Hauser 8.00 Richard D. Murray 105.00 
John R. Clary 10.00 Enid 
Francis A. Mekus 10.00 Francis H. Savage 5.00 
Sylvester J. Dougherty.. 25.00 University Heights 
Clarence T. Sheehon S.OO John Mohoney 25.00 
Thomas J. Lorkrn 5.00 
Portsmouth Leo C. Graf 5.00 Robert D. Sinkle 10.00 
John Polisky 20.00 William A. Burke, Jr... 25.00 
Edward R. Murroy 5.00 Joseph G. Vaschdk..;. 5.00 Lowton Joseph Wallace.... 
William F. Hooley.... 10.00  S. 5.00 5.Q0 
Struthers 

TJrbana Ivan R. Wolf ;. 10.00 Anthony F. Dean 5.00 
Jerome M. Wiggins 15.00 
Lawrence W. Henke, Jr. 10.00 Lindsay Bovenna Robert W. OBrien.... 20.00 Zonesville 5.00 
Tifiin Lorenzo L. Brennel 10.00 Rev. B. I. Ennane 5,000.00  H. Goldcamp 10.00 Marshall Walter R. Romito 10.00 
Van Wert Lawrence Bipley James C. Leahy 5.00 Edward J. Frericks 1.00 Vincent T. Mclntire 25.00 John J. O'Neill 
5.00 Paul J. Leahy, Jr 3.00 C. B. Thornton lOO.uO James W. Plummer 5.00 
Sylvester L. Evesloge.. 5.00 
D. B. McCartan 5.00 Donald Leo White 5.00 
Okarche 

Fred J. Wagner 50.00 Wapakoneta 
BodcY- Biver 50.00 Thomas E. Corey 10.00 William J. Whalen.... S.OO Charles R. Wright 5.00 
Oregon 
Toledo 

James P. Colleron, Jr... 25.00 
Astoria 

Francis R. Dittoe S.OO George N. Botes 10.00 Warren Oklahoma Citj James L. Hope 50.00 
Robert J. Foerstner 5.00 Robert M. Beck 15.00 Joseph F. Dray, Jr 10.00 J. H. Askew S.OO John D. Igoe 25.00 Arthur W. Brown 5.00 Paul A. Guarnieri 25.00 10.00 
Bend 

Eugene A. Kane 10.00 Chris W. Cochrane 5.00 Donold T. Heltzel 20.00 Charles R. Gallagher, Jr. 50.00 Thos. J. Kiener 10.00 John C. Cochrone 10.00 Joseph J. Hiegel 5.00 Thomas E. Hutchinson.. 20.00 
10.00 

Eugene A. Milliff 10.00 J. J. Cooney 5.00 Walter L Keating 5.00 Gilbert R. Maty 10.00 
25.00 Alfred Chorles Mueller.. £.00 George F. Covert, Jr... 3.00 Albert VonHuffel 25.00 
200.00 Thomas F. Crosby 10.00 Eugene 
Most Bev. 

Salem Paul J. Dooley 5.00 Washington Court House William E. Love S.OO 
E. J. McGuinness 100.00 
Leo B. English 10.00 

Donald D. Connors, Jr. 5.00 John M. Hogerty 10.00 
10.00 
Francis L. Foss 2.00 
AGlwaukie 

James A. Cross 15.00 A. B. McDonald 20.00 
Francis P. Gilhooley 5.00 

Michael J. O'Keefe, Jr. 25.00 L. Russell Sweeney 50.00 Perry 
Urban H. Grodel 10.00 
WeUston 
15.00 
Donald M. Haecker 5.00 

Sandusky  J. 5.00 Oswego 
Alfred Frericks Edw. J. Hogerty 10.00 
Tulsa 

D. W. Gruble 5.00 Gladstone T. McDermott 10.00 Richard C. Hohler 1.00 WesUoke 10.00 
Albert C. Heckler 5.00 

M. I. Henahan S.OO Charles M. Mouch 25.00 A. J. O'Brien 35.00 Pendleton 5.00 
James F. Hoffman 1.00 John P. Hurley, Jr 10.00 

Edmond H. Savord 2.00 William P. DeCoursey.. 20.00 Alfred A. Schnurr, Jr... 10.00 Weston Gerard K. Donovan.... S.00 
Norman Corl Joehlin... 2.00 Russell R. Smith 10.00 Lawrence W. Englert 5.00 
Francis M. Joyce 5.00 Wayne H. Ewing 10.00 Portland Leo J. Kennelly 10.00 
5.00 

Dominic L. Collicrole... 25.00 
Shaker Heights 10.00 
Bernard G. Kesting 5.00 Wickliffe 
John T. Carson 10.00 
10.00 

John J. Beyerle 10.00 Frank lockord 10,000.00 
Lawrence P. Kro I 10.00 Edward L. Casey 15.00 
John T. Frondes 10.00 Edwin J. Lynch 25.00 10.00 
Fronds J. McGroder, Jr. 25.00 Frederick L. Cunningham 5.00 John F. Gleason 10.00 Francis E. Molone '3.00 
Patrick H. Malloy 10.00 

Robert W. Franz 10.00 William M. Hannon 25.00 James J. Malone 10.00 
Charles L. McMohon, Jr. 10.00 

Willoughby 25.00 Rolph F. Huller 10.00 John Raymond Malone.. 2.00 5.00 10.00 
Charles A. McNomora, Jr. 
Edward T. Leonard 5.00 

Lawrence J. Kerwin 10.00 Donold J. Mortin 15.00 3.00 
Charles J. Hirschbuhl.. 100.00 
Patrick J. Stillisono 10.00 Anonymous 1,000.00 
Poul A. LoPresti 10.00 Fronds H. May, Jr 10.00 
Arthur Cornelius Hoene 2.00 
George E. Thomas 5.00 25.00 
John J. Mahon 5.00 S. J. McGiveran _ 100.00 
5.00 
Joseph Alfred Moron... 

Geo. P. Walsh S.OO Jos. T. McMahon 500.00 5.00 
William B. Kearns 5.00 
Wilmington 

John L. Venables 10.00 Francis E. Miller, Jr... 10.00 25.00 
Kenneth W . Kirby 10.00 
Edward M. Weinfurtner, Jr. 5.00 John J. Mullen 1.00 James A. Devlin 10.00 1.00 
Hugh V. Locey, Sr 10.00 Harold H. Munger 15.00 
10.00 
25.00 
Ludwig C. Peterschmidt. 1.00 

Shelby T. Frank Murray 25.00 Wooster L. Bernard MacNob 5.00 
5.00 

Francis S. Coleman... 1.00 Kenn F. Nyhan 25.00 Wolter J. Minder 10.00 Robert G. Molin 10.00 Casimir S. Rejent 5.00 
3.00 

Paul Vincent Coleman. 5.00 H. Louis Stettler, Jr 50.00 15.00 Ronald P. Rejent 5.00 
10.00 

5.00 Sidney Worthington Wm. C. Schmift 1,000.00 5.00 
Arthur W. Ryan 10.00 James J. Saltier 10.00 

1.00 George H. Watling S.OO 
10.00 Carl F. Schoffer 5.00 
12.50 

John.B. Aseloge 5.00 Thomas R. Shellworth.. 5.00 Norbert M. Schorf 5.00 
Robert M, Siegfried 10.00 

Youngstown 5.00 Donold G. Smorniski... 5.00 
Robert D. Schindler 5.00 
Silverton 
25.00 

George F. Schlaudecker 5.00 John J. Agnone 5.00 
Salem 

Ernest E. Zimmer 10.00 
10.00 Karl J. Barr 10.00 
John G. Schmitz 5.00 Anthony M. Bernard 5.00 
James M. Schoen 10.00 John J. Buckley 5.00 10.00 
Somerset 

Robert F. Schromm 15.00 Louis C. Colleron 1.00 Michoel P. Clouse, Jr... 4.50 James F. Schweickert... 5.00 Charles B. Cushwa 125.00 James Patrick Simon 3.00 Edward J. DeBortolo.... 10.00 
Oklahoma 

Fred A. Sprenger 400.00 Robert L. Dove 10.00 
South Euclid Ada 
Allentown 

Ambrose M. Stoepler... 5.00 William A. Dunlevy 20.00 
10.00 

Robert F. Coleman 5.00 
Henry P. Streicher, Jr... 14.33 PquI J. Fleming 5.00 Clare B. Burger 5.00 
William H. Coleman.. 50.00 
Arthur H. Suder 5.00 Raymond R. Flynn 10.00 Leo J. Crowe 5.00 Gerald B. Linn 5.00 BortlMvill* 
Richord F. Sullivan 10.00 John R. Hogan :.. . 10.00 Daniel T. McFodden 5.00 Karl M. Syring 5.00 Francis J. Hopkins 5.00 5.00 Leo R. Mclntyre 50.00 Sisingiield Jos. L. Tillman, Jr 150.00 George H. Kelley 5.00 Charles R. Bohn 10.00 Gerald J. Welch 5.00 Thomas E. Kerrigan 5.00 
BriBtow Allison Park 
William J. Fretogue 10.00 Robert B. Welly 10.00 Eli Leonelli 10.00 5.00 Eugene J. Coyne 10.00 
Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Toble, pages 9 fo 17. 
Altoona Corbondcde Eldred 25.00 TlWIJIM Robert M. Johnston 25.00 
Francis J. Behe 5.00 Robert James Rnnegan. 10.00 Frederick R. Gabriel, Jr. 50 00 Robert J. Klaibtr. Jr.... 5.00 Leonard A. Burns 20.00 Jos. Wm. Kresock .. 25.00 Louis T. Gabriel in no 
Vincent L Kedel 5.00 
Fredrick E. Locscher 20.00 
Geo. R. Martin 10.00 
MMwUbnK^ 

mtm and BUK* Charles ScUayai innn 5.0O 
William J. McAleer 5.00 Carnegie Elizabeth 
S. David Solomon 25.00 John B. Barr 5.00 Tliomas E. Kelly 10 00 Edward C. Stroh, Jr 5.00 Henry F. Schof?er 5.00 
Edw. C. Smith, Jr. 25.00 
lo^BovMi 

Edward C. Smith, Sr... 500 
Ellwood City Ambridge 
5.00 
Centralia 
David R. Cartwright 5.00 

Hflmfoffd 
Stanley C. Adamonis.. 10.00 James M. Reilley 5.00 
Moheaar CHy 

James F. Haley 10.00 
John Z. Gutowski 10.00 Emlenton ­
5.00 

Charles A. Conley 10.00 Loma Fieri 
Chester Fritz J. Nagel 20.00 
Charles J. Short 20.00 James F. Dougherty, Jr. MebM^
1.00 



10.00 Erie 

Conal J. Byrne 2.00 (.eroy E. Peterson Hoilatoii 
10.00 

Edward J. Welch 10.00 Joseph C. Barber 10.00 
Thomas L. Kennedy, Jr.. 10.00 Herbert G. Myers...... 15.00. 
Chestnut Bidge Robert A. Barber 10.00 
Ardsley 

Walter Morava 1.00 Thomas W. Barber.... 25.00 
HolUdayaboig HelMsBods 
Raymond W. Oakes 5.00 
Philip J. Bayer 15.00 John F. Holahan 5.00 Patrick L McDermotf... 20.00 
Clearfield James J. Brugger 10.00 Arnold William J. Rennekomp, Jr. 10.00 
5.00 

John F. Leitzinger 20.00 ^'° J-BfOQ" 
Honeadol* 
Ignatius J. Ducato 2.00 Charles P. Lytle 25.00 Leo H. Carney 5.00 Richard D. Daley 10.00 E. Clark Keen 10.00 - tbodrilto Atlas Clarion James Bernard Dwyer.. 5.00 John G. Rickert 5.00 William F. Gorman.i.. 5.00 5.00 
10.00 

Joseph F. Latorre 5.00 Edward A. Graham.... 5.00 ^«''"''% ^;-°°,"°'"' 
, i, u I 1 ^nnn William F. Grant 5.00 Houaton Thomas G. Tadross 3.00 
James M. Hutnagel 10,00 , t T ,, -t • 
, ,-u r 1 c nn Joseph T. Heinlein 5.00 H. Carl Link 5.00 
Austin 

Leon C. Hufnagel 5.00 Q,.^^^ „ j^„„,^^ ,„ 

10.00 MMia 
Wm. J. McGee 5.00 
2.00 Hohneville Richard E. Cbrdroy 5.00 Cootesville . if" ': ,'^Tl 
5.00 10.00 
Robert Corrigan 15.00 
Avalon Edward J. Kirchman 
10.00 

Richard A. Clemens.... 25.00 Waller H. Luedtke.... 
Robert J. Kvatsak..., 5.00 
10.00 

Thomas J. McCarthy Industrr 
10.00 

Columbia Raymond C. McEnery.. Albert A. Masters... 5.00 Barton B. Johnson 5.00 
Bela-Cynwyd 
25.00 

George T. Horn 5.00 George Mead Earl T. O'Connor IGddletown 
Richard T. Roney 10.00 10.00 
Jenkinlowa Connellsville John R. Rosher 
7.50 

Joseph M. O'Hara.... 15.00 Belle Vernon Raymond A. Black 10.00 Bernard A. Schroeck.... 5.00 
Raymond J. Sobatzki.. 10.00 
Edward J. Politoske..'.. 1.00 Charles R. Montgomery. 10.00 James G. Rush 5.00 Harold H. Schultz 
5.00 Maurice O. Smith 2.00 

Johnstown Xfidland Bellevue Coudersport Lawrence RStadler.-... 
10.00 Eugene L. Cavanaugh.. 5.00 _._,,..., ,„ .„ John E. Wilson 5.00 Stephen J. Conway, Jr. 25.00 
John C Castelli 5.00 
John F. Collins 5.00 

Francs F. Voletich 10.00 Robt. J. Flint 5.00 Charles J. Wittman.... 5.00 William A. Correll.... 10.00 
„ ., , , James A. White 5.00 Michael R. Yarbenet.... 1.00 William F. Freidhoff.... 10.00 
Bethlehem P,^^,^„ „ Yezerski.... 5.00 John P. Grogon 5.00 Monocci Bernard D. Broeker 10.00 Crafton George W. Kotter 10.00 George R. Campbell 5.00 James H. Walsh 20.00 Leo M. Dillon, Jr 5.00 Foiryiew 
Frank J. Piatt, Jr 10.00 
Joseph W. Raymond... 10.00 Mbnesssn Edwin E. Slick, Jr 10.00 
William Walsh, Jr 2.00 William R. Dillon 5.00 James H. Essick 5.00 
Michael Zapp 1.00 Louis W . Apone. 10.00 Cynwyd Fayette City Edw. J. Dean 25.00 
David S. Solomon 10.00 George D. Solomon, Jr. 10.00 
Bradford ^^i^^ ^ Carabasi.... 10.00 James C. Devlin 5.00 Edward T. Conley 10.00 John H. Neeson, Jr 10.00 
Momsloifn 

James F. McVay 10.00 Forty-Fort Kane Francis J. Gallagher.... 5.00 William P. McVay 10.00 Darby Edward W. Barney 10.00 
Edward T. McDermott.. 5.00 
S&CaiBwl Bridgeville Ettoning 
Joseph H. Mulqueen... 10.00 Anthony F. O'Boyle.... 5.00 
Leonard J. Marchinski. 1.00 Louis H. Jaquay 10.00 Dauphm Fryburg John A. Knorr 5.00 
5.00 Mk Lebanon Broomall 
Joseph W. Larkin 5.00 Gerald M. Poller.... 
Lancaster Hugh A. Gallagher.... 5.00 Joseph Mahoney _ 5.00 Derry Glenolden 
Paul J. Gschwend II 5.00 Bua and BuS. Thomas T. Ziegler 10.00 Thomas G. Gillespie, Jr. 5.00 James L. Quinn, Jr 10.00 Paul J. MoUen- 25L00 Butler Frank J. J. Sekinger.... 5.00 
Glenside NarbMth 
George H. Blackmore.. 7.00 
Donora Charles E. Dillon 10.00 James E. Frick 10.00 Lonsdewne E. Clark Riley.. 10.00 
Adolph V. Copono 15.00 
John C. Dillon, Jr 5.00 Joseph M. McGrath 
20-00 John W . Kroeger. 15.00 John Murrin, IV 5.00 New Cosa* 
John F. Shaffer 10.00 
DrexelHiU 

William Z. Murrin 12.00 Grampion 
Herman W. Green 5.00 

Robert J. Portman 5.00 Thomas A. LeStronge... 10.00 p^^^f i Moore 
5.00 Latrobe 
William J. Rockenstein.. 10.00 Daniel H. Young 35.00 
Now Cnmbcdand ­

Daniel P. Nolan... 5.00 
Philip A. Walsh 20.00 
Greensburg 
John J. McNeill 10.00 

Thomas J. Walsh 5.00 DuBois 
Daniel J. Carr 5.00 

Lowton 
Eugene D. Vollely 5.00 New Kensington Bywood Andrew M. McGovern, Jr. 15.00 
Greenville 

Bernard W. Conroy 5.00 Joseph W . Fullem 10.00 
Duimiore William R. Howes 10.00 Leechbmg 
Newtown Sqaoi* Camp HiU Bartholomew C. Fovero 
Thomas J. Harrington.. 5.00 
Gwynedd 10.00 
Walter F. Philipp 10.00 Harold F. Hall 10.00 M. Dominic Fdvero 10.00 
Jos. R. Farrell 25.00 East Pittsburgh 
North Wols* Leelsdals 
John A. Ference, Jr 10.00 Hanover 
Carmonsburg John H. Fager 5.00 
Thomos F. Corfogno 25.00 

Joseph P. Deloney 25.00 
Herbert A. Gessler 1.00 Ebensburg Harrisburg O^ODBoni 
William M. Anderson.. 2.00 Coraopolis Frederick C. Englehart.. 5.00 Francis C. Borbush 5,00 Lahightott Thomas R. Conroy 5.00 Jos. Paul Fisher 5.00 Donald A. Schettig 10.00 Edward R. Eckenrode... 
3.00 George A. Schwartz, Jr. 25.00 Edward D. Henke 25.00 
Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
Oil City William K. BayerW. Connor CroninThoddeus S. Gabreski..Thomas E. McLaughlin..DanielJ. Skelly  10.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  25.00  Daniel T. Broderick, Jr.J. Vincent Burke, JrRaymond J. BurnsRobert B. CorverRobert V. Chamberlain.Joseph E. Christen, Jr...Edward A. Cosgrove....  25.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  2.50  25.00  Beading Jos. Francis Doly Edmund T. Gcqewsld Frank L. McManus William A. O'Connell.  2.00 140.00 5.00 25.00  Uniontown Benito E. BronettiEdward J. CarrollThomas L. DoorleyHenry A. RascheAnthony N. Renze, Jr...Alessio A. Romeo  10.00  5.00  5.00  100.00  10.00  5.00  Newport James J. Connell 25.00 Eugene J. O'Reilly 50.00 Daniel L. Sullivan 5.00 North ProTidence Miss Mary E. Grimes 5.00  
Osceola Mills James F. Dugan 10.00 Foul D. Dugan 20.00 Orerbiook. Philadelphia William Richord Lyons.. 5.00 Polmerton  John M. CrimminsDaniel J. CullinonCharles DeibelAlfred J. Diebold, Jr...Joseph A. DiMotteoFrancis A. DineenJohn K. DugganJohn R. EdwardsLowrence F. Enright  10.00  25.00  10.00  150.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  Bidgwar Thomas F. Price Bidley Park Donald J. Sheehy Bydol Henry R. Theis  5.00 5.00 10.00  Vandergrift John B. MastrangeloWashington Robert A. MeyerFrank X. SlaterJ. Vincent Soisson  5.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  Pawtucket John J. FitzgeraldAlbert Jeremiah McAtoonLeo R. McAloonVincent G. McAloonEugene J. MoreauCornelius J. Shackett...  5.00  5.00  35.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  
Joseph P. Nonovic  5.00  Robt. V. Fulton, JrAndrew N. Golone  5.00  10.00  S t Mary's  Waynesburg  Portsmouth  
Fooli  Emmet D. Griffin, Jr....  25.00  William P. Gies  50.00  Paul  F. Puglio  15.00  Charles L. Pickhordt  5.00  
Horry H. Froncis, JrPenyopolisThomas J. KalmonPhiladelphia   10.00 .  10.00  Robert E. HagonPaul A. HortmonFrancis A. Hegarty....John P. HickeyJohn J. HomanEdward G. HuffJohn V. Huph  10.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  3.00  Soyre James W. Cullen Poul H. McCobe... Thomas A. Ferrari 5.00 1.00  15.00  West Lawn Patrick A. MazzaWest Newton Peter Andriechack  20.00  10.00  Providence Jules GoldsteinFrancis G. KellnerJoseph L. McDonald, Jr.John S. McKiernan  10.00  5.00  10.00  25.00  
Thomas A. Blisord Robert E. Burns, Jr  5.00 10.00  Hugo A. lacovettiBenedict J. Kaiser  5.00  250.00  Scottdale  West Philodelphia  Warwick Neck  
William  G. Burns  10.00  John J. Kennedy  15.00  JohnL.  Lambert  10.00  Edward  A. Shevlond...  10.00  Rev. Russell Jos. McVinney  5.00  
Joseph F. Cattie Jules J. Cattie E. P. Chaput William P. Coghlan Frank W. Connelly James N. Ciuley William J. Doly  5.00 10.00 25.00 2.00 15.00 5.00 20.00  George H. Kingsley, Jr. 10.00 Joseph G. Long 1.00 Robert R. MacDonald.. 10.00 John P. Madde n _ 10.00 William J. Mogorrall, Jr. 5.00 Thomos D. Maher 2.00 Poul J. McArdle 25.00  Scranton Hugh L. Campbell, Jr.. Louis John Finske John F. FitzHenry Jos. D. Jordan John J. Klise, Jr  25.00 50.00 2.00 5.00 10.00  West Beading William J. CossidyJohn G. SpeidelWest ^^ew   5.00  10.00  Westerly John J. McMohonWest Warwick Jomes A. Mello  5.00  1.00  
Alfred F. D'Amoro Chos. M. Dougherty Ambrose F. Dudley  5.00 15.00 10.00  Edmund L. McBride....James F. McCarthyJohn Joseph McGovern  10.00  5.00  5.00  Vincent J. McCoolo John F. Regon Hobart P. Shean, Jr  5.00 5.00 15.00  Regis I. IcvelleWexford   5.00  Russell Woonsocket  L. Hunt  2.00  
Harold E. Duke  5.00  James W .  McGowon...  5.00  Thomas Taylor  100.00  Albert  Ryan Doschbach.  10.00  
John V. Gibbons Wm. A. Gourgeon  25.00 5.00  Edward C. McHugh, Jr.John F. McMohon  10.00  25.00  Anthony G. Webber  2.00  Wlkes Baire  S. Carolina  
James J. Hannigan,Bryan L Hayes Foul A. Howe • John J. Kelly Edwin W. Keleher James F. Kerwin John Bernord Land Mr. and Mrs. Thos. E. Lewis   Jr.  5.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 50.00 10.00 25.00  John P. MonteverdeHugh J. MurphyJohn J. O'ConnorJohn B. O'DonnellLawrence P. O'Donnell.Leo D. O'DonnellJoseph V. O'RourkeLawrence J. O'Toole..John W. Potterson, Jr..  15.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  50.00  5.00  10.00  24.00  Sewickley George H. Hegner, III . Sharon Albert J. Evans Joseph L. Garvey Edward B. Maden... Bernard J. Sloter  5.00 5.00 5.00 15.00 5.00  John C. BradyJames E. Brock...;Frank J. KellyMourjce J. ReganEdward J. RowanVniUamsport John B. Willmann   15.00  1.00  25.00  10.00  5.00 5.00  Charleston Julian D. MichelOrangeburg Samuel W . Gwinn, Jr..Spartanburg   5.00  25.00  
Edward P. Lynaugh Edward J. Lyons John F. Maher Charles J. McKinney William W. Murphy.... Jomes A. Nolen, Jr William J. Nolan John R. Pedrotty Clifford E. Prodehl Eugene J. Ryan Joseph L. Simons John R. Soisson David H. Stroud, 111.... Henry J. Sullivan  25.00 25.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 5.00  Chas. R. O'TooleRichard R. O'TooleJohn F. Pavlick, JrPittsburgh Advertising ClubThomas V. PowersJohn B. ReordonEdwin L. ReslerWillis H. RiceJohn H. Roney, JrSimon R. RudolphJohn C. SheedyWilliom L. SixsmithJoseph B. Slaine  20.00  5.00  5.00  50.00  15.00  5.00  3.00  10.00  3.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  Shorpsville James A. Biggins Shenandoah Thos. J. Quigley Charles W. Yokemonis.. South Fork James P. McClarren State College Eugene P. Klier  25.00 5.00 6.00 5.00 5.00  WKndber Francis A. MurphyDonald W . StechschulteRussell F. Stechschulte..Yeric James R. GrahamCharles T. Williomsen..Youngwood J. Regis Kuhn  5.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  25.00  5.00  Jomes G. Crowley, Jr...10.00 James L. Joyce 25.00 Tucapau John L. Joyce 25.00 S.Dakota Aberdeen Thomas C. Kasper 25.00 Brookings  
Jeremiah J. Sweeney, Jr. Frozier Leon Thompson.  10.00 1.00  Laurence R. SmithC. J. Spinelli  5.00  10.00  Stroudsburg  Rftocfe Island  James  H. Finn  10.00  
W . F. Tobin Paul R. Tolond W . Robert Tuson Adrian J. Wockerman.. Doniel H. Young Fhoenixville Clyde A. Roberts Pittsburgh Paul H. Anderson Bernard A. Bannon  10.00 10.00 25.00 10.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 10.00  Wm. N. SteitzLeo J. VogelSamuel E. WestHenry J. ZimmerPittston Fronk M. FlanogonPottstown Paul T. NowakPottsTille   150.00  125.00  .­ 2.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  Alfred J. Schoefer Swissvale John D. O'Brien Tarentum Louis J. Horning Taylor John A. Kramer  2.00 5.00 5.00 5.00  Ashton Daniel E. Keefe 25.00 Cumberland Kll' John J. McLaughlin 25.00 East Greenwich Paul D. Hoeffler 25.00 Laioyette Joseph A. Rigney 5.00  Elk Point Thos. M. Harrington... Huron Robert K. Osborn Lead Albert F. GushurstA. Joseph RizziItCtcheU  5.00 5.00  10.00  25.00  
Hugh C. Boyle J. Robert Brennan Patrick Thomas Brennan  15.00 5.00 2.00  Francis E. MooreJoseph J. QuigleyBernard J. Wossell....  5.00 10.00 5.00  ., ... ''•'"""* '  Titusville , _ . ,  ••• Baiorek..  2000 Lonsdale  Stanley J. Pora  2.00  John M. Fatten  10.00  
Rev. Vincent P. Brennan Earl W. Brieger  30.00 5.00  Punxsutowney  Tyrone  Manville  Bapid City Air Field John C. Bennett 5.00  
John A. Briley  10.00  Joseph J. Wehrle  5.00  Oliver F. Schell  5.00  Thomas A. Sepe  5.00  Horry  W .  Zolper  10.00  

Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City ond state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
Sioux Falls Moiristown B. F. McLoin 75.00 Williom V. Dietmann, Jr. 25.00 Whit* BiTsc JiiBctioB John E. Burke 5.00 Chester M. Ashman 5.00 Rev. Patrick A. Borry 50.00 
John J. Moron 5.00 Ignacio E. lozano, Jr... 5.00 
Lewis J. Murphy 10.00 Joseph A. Menger 5.00 
Robert R. Donohoe 10.00 
B. Scott Reordon, Jr... 5.00 Nashville Henry NeuhoH 5.00 Albert G. Phoneuf 5.00 Thomas M. Reordon 50.00 lohn D. NeuhoH 5.00 
Richard L. Bevington 5.00 
Joseph A. Neuhoii 5.00 SiatoB Virginio 
William S. Bevington.. 10.00 Sbrool Frank W. 03rien-5.00 Jos. F. Odem 100.00 nlezandntt 
Harry L. Claiborne 5.00 
John N. Poore 

Rev. Bernard E. Shonley 15.00 John E. Horwood 10.00 5.00 William J. Coyne...... 5.C0 
Jocob M. Reichenslein.. 10.00 TasQS City 
W. Kennedy Jones 5.00 Thomas Francis Flynn, Jr. 5.00 Thomas E. Shiels, Jr... 25.00 
Veimillion Thomas McNicholos ... 25.00 Howard L. Lardie 20.00 J. Waller Greer........ 5.00 
Jomes W . Simmons, Jr. 5.00 Gerald E. Harriman 1.00 
Charles S. Wells 50.00 Kyron W . Hanlon 5.00 
Arthur T. Simpson 10.00 

William D. . Kavanaugh 10.00 Edward J. Solon 5.00 
Matthew H. MerUe.... 5.00 John W. Stanford, Jr... 10.00 
Waieriown John H. Brogan, Jr.. 10.00 
Frank J. Murphy 5.00 
BCn. Joha H* 

Andrew E. Foley 25.00 Texos J. Donald Sullivan 3.00 Charles G. Roggenstein 10.00 James P. Swift 25.00 
Brogan. ^. 3.00 
"flfiiHjIftn 

Bay City John J. Maher 15.00 
Jos. L. Walsh 5.00 

Julian W. Quinn 10.00 Edward L Boyle, Jr.... . 5.00 
Charles L. Cobb 15.00 Samuel A. Wing, Jr 5.00 
Albert E. Saleh 5.00 Charles T. Brosius.-. 5.00 Tennessee Boytown Mitchell J. Saleh... 5.00 John T.Casey 10.00 
E Paso 
Robert W . Covanaugh. 50.00 
Bristol 

John M. Powers, 111... 5.00 
H. L. Foester 10.00 Waco Francis R. Cowley . . 10.00 
James J. Dougherty, Jr. 50.00 
John P. Ford, Jr 3.00 Patrick J. Conway 10.00 
J. Frederick. .Simon, Jr. 5.00 
Beaumont 

William E. Ford 5.00 John F. Oamer 6.00 
Brownsnlle 

Clyde E. Broussard 725.00 Leo J. Momsen 50.00 Goylord P. Hoss 7.00 
Wichita FoUa 
John S. Stehlin 100.00 Joseph E. Broussard, Jr. 55.00 Reuben F. Momsen 25.00 Joseph P. McNomaro.. 25.00 James E. Foley 5.00 
John T. Donnelly 5.00 Richard S. Smith 5.00 William R. Murphy, Jr. 5.00 Thomas C. Foley 11.00 
Chattanooga Ceroid P. Doyle 50.00 Howard J. Schellenberg, Jr. 5.00 Envin J. Le Blanc 5.00 Fort Worth 
William P. Delaney, Jr. 25.00 John A. Walker 10.00 Francis E. Schlueter 25.00 
Frederick A. Eichorn, Jr. 5.00 Joseph A. Durkin 20.00 John W. Terrell 25.00 Bernard V. Hoberer 25.00 Ufah Covington Beeville Miss Kate L. Francis J. Albert, Jr..... 10.00 
Helper 
Clorksville Johnson '. 00 00 
Williom B. Berning 2.00 
Stanley V. Litizzette 5.0O 
George M. Koler 10.00 Philip R. North 5.00 

John E. Lewis 2.00 Folia Chnzdi 
Joseph B. Lewis 10.00 Borger Provo Rev. Wm. P. Connelly-• 10.00 
James Record 25.00 

J. Thomas Trcughber.. 25.00 Anthony J. Mulvaney.. 10.00 
Clifford H. Mihm... 1.00 
Frost J. Thorne 5.00 Jorold L. Sunderland... 10.00 Richard M. White 5.00 
Denmark Fort Belvoir 

Comstodc Salt Lake (Sty 
William L. Jones 5.00 
Galveston William F. Wingen.... 8.00 
John H. Kelly 5.00 5.00 William R. Crowley 5.00 John W. Gollivan 100.00 
Fianldin 

Forre J. Pequigney 25.00 Miles T. Ivers 1.00 
John M. Flanigen 5.00 Conroe 
Raymond V. Smith -10.00 Leo C. Nulty 15.00 Robert D. Harrington.. 10.00 
Thos. F. Green, Jr 60.00 
Charles J. Stubbs 30.00 Philip J. Purcell, Jr..... 25.00 
Enoxville John F. Christmon 10.00 Corpus Christi Goose Creek 
LyncUrarg' '­

Paul E. Morrison 5.00 Daniel D. Meaney 10.00 
Sonford S. Friedman 5.00 Forrest I. Watson 
5.00 James J. Meaney 25.00 Vermonf George B. Fozzi, Jr... 5.M Michael A. Needhom.. 15.00 
Crist P. Herring 5.00 

Hebron Bennington 
Tbomas A. Morrison 10.00 William A. Grady.. 15.00 Gerald E. Morrissey 5.00 
Martin 

John P. Meek 1.00 Dallas 
Francis C. Tomasi 5.00 Chester A. Barbeck 5.00 
VteLaan

Houston Memphis George W. Becker 5.00 Burlington Alfred W . Trueox 5.00 
Jeremiah J. Clifford.. 10.00 

20.00 Lloyd C. Bellamy 5.00 
Lucian B. Coppinger. 100.00 Frederick J. Fayette 25.00 
5.00 Thomas E. Broniff 25.00 Newport New* 
Thos. J. Donovon 20.00 James J. Fayette 20.00 
5.00 DeWitt P. Buell 25.00 
Foul J. Doyle, Jr , 10.00 Arthur A. Mitiguy 10.00 Charles K. Hutchens, Jr. 25.00 Anthony A. Canole— . 5.00 William A. Butler 5.00 
William L. Graham... 10.00 John F. Mitiguy 25.00 
5.00 James D. Crow 10.00 
Thomas A. Hughen... 7.50 
NorioDc 

Froncis P. Crowley 10.00 
20.00 Raymond B. Keating... 15.00 East Georgia 
5.00 John L. Darrouret, Jr... 2.00 Patrick J. Bonnon 15.00 
Lawrence J. Kelley 5.00 

Paul W.Ryan 15.00 
Philip M. Conole, Jr... 5.00 William-A. Defferrori.. 5.00 John P. Bisese 5.00 
George P. Murrin 5.00 

30.00 Harold R. Delaney.... 5.00 Edward F. Cunningham 10.00 
Bryan S. Odem 25.00 

Lake Bomoaeen 
10.00 Albert DeLorenzi 5.00 Robert B. Howlond 5.00 
Francis X. Pendorvis... 15.00 

5.00 Felix Doran, III 5.00 Forrell J. Quinlan 6.00 Henry Jos. McKnight, Jr. 5.00 
James M. Reidy 5.00 

25.00 Charles L. Forris 10.00 Thomas F. Quinlan 15.00 O. W. Rosanelli 2.00 
William Henry Ricke... 50.00 

25.00 Fred J. Faust 5.00 Leo J. Schultheis 10.00 
Robert C. Scoggins... 25.00 Walter J. Fransioli, Jr. 5.00 Irving T. Fleming 25.00 Russell J. Scott 5.00 MeatpeHer Austin K. Hall 25.00 John G. Fleming 25.00 Carroll P. Pitkin 5.00 
Thomos A. Stondish... 10.00 Qnontico Fronk W. Howlond 70.00 Joseph B. Fleming- 25.00 George W. Stroke 25.00 Horry Augustin Florence 5.00 
500.00 North Bennington 
Walter L. Fleming, Jr... 172.00 M. Emetl Walter 25.00 Hugh M. Mogevney, Jr. 10.00 Daniel H. Foley 1.00 James A. Young 20.00 William E. Doiley, Jr... 10.00 Phoebna Donnell J. McCormock. 5.00 
John J. Foley 20.00 
Michoel J. McCormock.. 5.00 ^gor e Bntlond William J. Egan 10.00 
Leo J. Freitas 10.00 
Lovin J. McNicholos 2.50 
Angel Gonzalez 5.00 Henry L. Shipp, Jr.. 10.00 John D. Carbine 10.00 
Wolter C. O'Meara 10.00 Bichnoaii 
Ventura Gonzalez 1.00 Lawrence J. Culliney.. 5.00 
10.00 

Edmond R. Hoggor 50.00 Port Arthur Louis W. Esposito 50.00 Joseph A. Dart, Jr 5.00 
5.00 I. M. Haggar 8,000.00 Richard T. Broun 10.00 John A. Foley 5.00 John C. Jdxtheimer 5.00 
15.00 

Joseph M. Haggar, Jr... 50.00 Victor S. Colletti 20.00 Joseph M. Foley 5.00 Francis Robert Kelly, Jr. 25.00 
Leopold C. Schoffler 10.00 
Robert M. Hanno 5.00 Christie C. Flanagan.. 25.00 E. G. McClollen, Jr... 25.00 Francis R. Kelly 3.00 
Wesley S. Strehl, Jr... 10.00 
James B. Holton 5.00 Leo J. Hannon 25.00 Robert E. McSweeney.. 10.00 
5.00 Mike Leonard 5.00 Herbert Schuiz 25.00 St Johnsbnrg Charles R. Riley 5.00 
James R. Welsh 25.00 
Michael J. Linehon, Jr.. 5.00 Rev. Edward J. Howard. 35.00 Robert A. Sheppard, Jr. 2.00 Fred E. Link 10.00 
San Antonio Francis J. Stumpf 10.00 5,00 South DeiMt 
Milan Charles B. Lohr, Jr 10.00 Charles McCorty Andres George F. Tonsey 1.00 Angelo B. Luckett... 5.00 Frank A. McCullough... 5.00 John A. Bitter, Jr 10.00 Robert W. Burns 5.00 Ernest J. Williams 5.00 
Regular Foce Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and slate totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
47 

W. Virginia 

Joseph E. Pilon 5.00 
Gerardo J. Lombardi... 10.00 William E. Ackermonn.. 10.00 Paul R. Brannon 10.00 
Bridgeport Richard A. VanderWegen 3.00 Karl T. Brennon 5.00 
Anselm D. Miller 17.00 Daniel W. Cochran 50.00 Guys Hays Bradley 10.00 William M. Dusch 10.00 Donald J. Diederich 1.00 Scdem John L. Emmert 5.00 Frank E. Doyle 10.00 
Elkhart Iioka 
John William Greene.. 1.00 Oliver Jerome Chayie.. 3.00 Thomas W. Frost 5.00 
Albert J. Russo, Jr 20.00 Charleston William N. Hogon 10.00 James A. Girord 2.00 
William Budd 10.00 
Thomas F. Howley 10.00 Elkhom Reuben E. Grundemon.. 7.50 
Staunton 

John T. Davis 10.00 
Wm. H. Mitsch 5.00 Harold B. Holey 3.00 
John D. Voss 10.00 Russell B. Rickus 10.00 Charles J. Kreuz 25.00 
Frank A. Cocciapaglio, Jr. 5.00 William F. Grad; 2,000.00 
Lowrence G. Hess 10.00 
George J. Sorgus 5.00 Maurice F. Leahy 5.00 
Fond du Lac 
Arthur P. Hudson 500.00 
Thomas Edwin Schreiber 1.00 Thomas L. McCarthy 5.00 
William J. Kenney 10.00 Donald Francis Guyette 25.00 
John E. Yaeger 5.00 Edward A. Mueller.... 5.00 Albert H. Kessing 10.00 Louis A. Lange 5.00 
Washingfon 
Louis J. Yaeger, Jr 25.00 Edwin C. Pick 5.00 
Aberdeen Donald G. Leis 2.00 Emery W. Martin 5.00 
William J. Yaeger 5.00 John Roach 10.00 
Wm. J. Desmond _ 5.00 Richard J. Lindroth 2.00 Roland A. Martin 5.00 
Horry A. Stuhldreher... 10.00 

Edward P. Smith 2.00 William E. Mongon 5.00 K. D. Tohulka 8.00 
Frank H. Sweeney 25.00 

William R. McCollister.. 5.00 Auburn William J. Minges 5.00 Wisconsin FL Atkinson 
Manitowoc 

Dovid Buckley Moncrief 5.00 Verne W . Huber 5.00 
Thomos K. Shuler 5.00 Antigo 
Joseph T. Neenan 25.00 Richard M. Gerl 5.00 
Thomos E. McDougal.. 10.00 

Michael J. O'Connor.. 10.00 Joseph R. Kenny 5.00 
EUensburg Green Bay 
Vincent J. Reishman 10.00 Francis X. Murphy 10.00 William G. Webster.... 15.00 Appleton l^lorbert J. Christmon... 5.00 
William J. Reishman, Jr. 5.00 Paul J. Schoub 5.00 Raymond P. Dohr 10.00 Marinette 
Emmett ETOU — 10.00 Greenbank James P. Forrell 10.00 
Francis J. Sheets 5.00 Alvin G. Gloudemans.. 5.00 
Francis R. Longrill 5.00 
10.00 

Daniel C. Roberts 10.00 John M. Welch 10.00 Frederick T. Heinritz 2.00 Wm, I. Famll Frank J. Louermon, Jr.. 75.00 Paul Henry McKenny 3.00 Levi A. Geniesse 
10.00 

Joseph A. Louermon 25.00 Montesono Robert P. Reogon 10.00 Walter D. Hall 5.00 
Clarksburg Clarence N. Verstegen. 5.00 Robert Clemens Reinders 5.00 
William F. Kerwin, Jr... 15.00 
A. Maurice Schofer 200.00 Marcus E. Forrell 5.00 Gustove A. Zuehike 5.00 
Harold L. Londo 10.00 
John D. Julian 15.00 Marshfield 
John H. Zwicker 5.00 Joseph A. Neufeld 15.00 
Olymiaa 

Edward O'Brien — 5.00 John W. Frye 5.00 
James William Kelly.... 2.00 Fairmont 
Ashland 

Theodore M. Ryon 5.00 Henry D. Collii 20.00 
Hudson Mazomonie 
Adolph S. Komm 5.00 John D. Heywood 10.00 Bernard A. 0"Hora 5.00 
Raymond Glen Ferris Athens 
John I. O'Phelon 10.00 Leo J. Lardie 5.00 James W. Broun 5.00 Horiey Menasha 
HoUidays Cove Ted A. Nolan 5.00 Fred G. Deutsch 5.00 
Bichland 

Baraboo Joseph G. Raineri..., 2.00 Joseph F. Fieweger 5.00 
Richard E. Flood 10.00 
Joseph A. Hoogo, Jr... 10.00 
 McGuon 5.00 William H. Fieweger.. 10.00 
Huntington Andrew F. 
Joseph V. Lowler 25.00 lanesville 
Walter E. Terry 5.00 

Walter D. Smythe 10.00 Thomas J. Conoty 10.00 
James F. Fitzgerald 1.00 
Menominee 

Fronk S. Doriot 10.00 
Beaver Dam Daniel W . McCluskey.. 15.00 
K. Joseph Heotherman. 10.00 John H. Hickey 10.00 
Seattle Patrick J. McCullough.. 1.00 
Reynold A. Deniger 200.00 John F. Boespflug 100.00 
Logan 

Koukauno MeniU 
Theodore Patrick Cummings 5.00 Beloit 
Roland L. Belladonna.. 6.00 
Rev. Philip H. Duffy. 10.00 Ivleil J. McCorty 5.00 Franklin R. Plono 3.00 Vincent J. Ferzacco 10.00 
John B. George 10.00 

John P. English 25.00 Thomas J. McCorty 10.00 Augustus H. Stange 25.00 
Joseph D. Rosenthal... 10.00 

Patrick J. Goggin, Jr... 5.00 
Martinsbtu-g 

Joseph E. Horrigan 10.00 Kenosha 
AGlwaukee 
Benton 

Philippe T. Hosterman.. 3.00 John T. Collins 5.00 John E. Brannon..;... 15.00 Jos. R. Keorns 10.00 
. 100.00 

W. Jerome Kane 5.00 
Charles J. Joskwhich 5.00 
Edward R. Altendorf 5.00 

Charles S. LoCugno 6.00 Moundsville Donald H. Kotz 5.00 
Charles M. Bronsfield.. . 10.00 
Bloncbardville 

Emmett G. Lenihon 100.00 
Gus Varlas 3.00 Francis John Shannon.. 5.00 
Henry J. Brosnohon . 25.00 

W. Donald Martin 10.00 Samuel F. Meyer 3.00 
John M. Speca 10.00 
John F. Brush . 5.00 

Mrs. Elizabeth B. New Martinsville James C. Stanhope 5.00 
Clifford G. Buckley . 5.00 

Metzger 5,000.00 Bristol 
Williom R. Herrick.... 5.00 . 10.00 
I. P. Mooney 10.00 
Poul J. Shiben 10.00 William R. Gwinn.. 5.00 LaCrosse Richord A. Candee . 5.00 John A. Elliott 
Charles F. Osborn, Jr... 5.00 20.00 . 10.00 Wm. H. Tierney 25.00 Parkersburg William F. Dvorak 10.00 3.00 
Burlington 

Edward M. Tobin 2.00 
Frank T. Flynn, Jr. 10.00 . 10.00 
Clyde W. Archer 5.00 Charles B. McConna 100.00 
Albert P. Fonk, Jr 10.00 Robert J. Cunningham. . 5.00 
Snoqualmie Falls Charles E. McDonough.. 5.00 Arthur S. Funk 1, ,000.00 Joseph M. Czopowski.. 1.00 Frederick R. Funk 20.00 5.00 
Williom J. Eorley 10.00 Philip R. McConno 25.00 
William E. O'Neil 10.00 James C. Thomas 15.00 Compbellsport 
George W. Thompson, Jr. 10.00 August M. Grams 100.00 Ben V. DeloHunt , 1.00 
Charles I. Polt 5.00 

John W. Hackner 10.00 Robert H. Dieckelmon.. . 15.00 Spokane St. Abans Robert B. Hackner 5.00 5.00 
Chippewa Falls 

R. E. Brown 100.00 David F. Hyde 5.00 . 10.00 
Cyril M. Reich 5.00 
John F. Olson 25.00 

Francis E. Flannery 10.00 Franklin E. Kellogg 3.00 5.00 Frank J. Hogenborth, Jr. 5.00 Donald F. Murphy 10.00 , 10.00 
Smithiield 

Bernard J. Lenoue 3.00 Cuba City Joseph W . Murphy 10.00 . 10.00 
Miss Dora Carlin _ • 2.00 
Francis L. Zoppone 3.00 Charles H. Bartlett, Jr. 5.00 James E. Podesky 1.00 5.00 Richard R. Padesky 15.00 L. F. Gran 500.00 Sisterville 
Deloran Richard Henry Pearse.. 5.00 Arnold C. Hockenbruch 5.00 Jackson Gandour 5.00 John A. Rau 5.00 Tames E. Holf .... 200.00 
Tacoma 

John J. Dempsey, Jr... 10.00 R. J. Morrissey 10.00 
Korl A. Schoettle £0.00 Frank H. Hoy 100.00 
William J. Ellis 1,000.00 Joseph A. John 10.00 South Charleston Dodgeville 5,00 
. 25.00 

Jos. H. Monley 10.00 Robert E. Shoemaker.. 5.00 Francis D. Hamilton 10.00 Lake Genera 
. 10.00 

August R. von Boecklin. 130.00 Wolter J. Toussoint 15.00 Thomas J., O'Brien 50.00 
5.00 

Eau Claire Edward J. Powers 5.00 
Bernard F. LeRoy , 2.00 
Wenatchee War 

C. Thomas Downs 25.00 William C. Moloney 5.00 Frederick M. Crollord, Jr. 5.00 Matthew P. Romeo 5.00 Charles E. Koiser 5.00 Lancaster Philip P. Martin , 2.00 Louis J. Crollard 5.00 Raymond J. Zondo 5.00 William H. Kaiser 10.00 Harold W. Corey 25.00 1.00 
Regular Face Type—Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
James A. Mathews 25.00 Pottage Watertown 
Brian C. McLaughlin... 10.00 
Brit. Colmmbia Emglamd
Thomas E. Henney 5.00 Francis P. Beggon 5.00 
Richard C. McMohon... 5.00 
Vcnioouwff 
Edgar B. Bernard 5.00 

Frederick C. Mulcohy.. 5.00 
Badne 

Hmold S. Foler , . 501.00 Richard B. Molltr .50.0 0 
John B. Nichols 25.00 Woupaea 
Robert C. Albert 5.00 
Earl J. O'Brien 5.00 
Edward J. Hart 25.00 John J. O'Connor 2.00 Millard S. Edmonds 5.00 
B. VL Benstead „1,000.00 TiiiiiCMid 
Charles A. O'Neill 10.00 Waupun Alfred B. McEneamey.. 10.00 ,
William H. Fromm, Jr. 5.00 'FraMcm
James P. O'Meora 5.00 
John C. Burke 10.00 

Greene Mfg. Co_5,000.00 
Richard J .O'Melio.... 5.00 SdM B AIM 
James M. Hamilton.. 1,999.00 
P. Dudley Pearson 5.00 Wouaou 
L H. Hamilton _1,667.00 Oafario, Cos. Joseph P. Sullivan .5.00 
Walter L. Piduch 1.00 
Robert L. Hamilton.. 2,000.00 Roymond J. Heinzen 50.00 
James W . Power 10.00 tndcHnm
Robert E. Hecht 10.00 
Patrick G. Powers 10.00 Wouwotoso 
Hilmar E. Heuer 5.00 Wm. Charles Molone.. 3.00. 
Thomas C. Puchner 10.00 
William Brown 10.00 

Edward J. Kilmur'ry 5.00 Mexico Edward J. Redmond... 110.00 
Paul C. Brust 10.00 

Bernard H. Miller 15.00 
Edw. J. Rogers 25.00 Gait MwdeeOiF. <
John P. Cullen 50.00 

Francis H. Miller, Jr... 10.00 
Robert G. Sanford 10.00 _
Frederick W. Keller.... 5.00 Bar. E. A. Doyle 50.00 John P. Bleeg, Jr....... 10.00 
Grover F. Miller 15.00 
Robert F. Schirf ;. . 5.00 
John D. Madden 5.00 Tflmo DeLandero 20.00 
Edward J. Zimmers 5.00 
Eugene J. Schumoker... 10.00 
Mark A. Pfaller 5.00 Richard C Leon 2.00 Lester C. Sentz 10.00 
Bhinelonder James J. Siddall 5.00 Lawrence P. Sullivan... 5.00 G. Ahrarex Morphy 88.00 
John J. Shodron 25.00 
Robert N. Thoringer 5.00 John H. Stouber 6.00 Donald C. O'Melio.... 10.00 
Robert F. Welch 1.00 

Roland J. Steinle 5.00 Etdunmc SaUiBQ, Cecdraaa Floyd J. Sullivan 20.00 Bice Lake West Bend John J. Wintermeyer.. 1.80 Rodolfo Blar CSarza <0.00 Roderick E. Sullivan 5.00 Warren D. Leary. Jr... 5.00 Thomas F. O'Meora 5.00 
James L. Torrence 5.00 Francis R. Parks 5.00 
Edwin Pick 15.00 Sanlt SI*. Mori* Hobett A. TTiUein 5,000.00 John B. Pick 5.00 
Wilfrid J. Hussey I.OO 
John P. Wagner 5,000.00 Shawano Roberto. Pick 20.00 NeMffoMcffoacf 
Boniface S. Wanta 5.00 
David J. Rolfs 10.00 

John D. Nober 5.00 Hcorbonr Groe* 
S t Coihetinaa 
Harold C. Watson 5.00 
Thomas J. Rolfs 10.00 
Robert J. Connolly . 5.00 

Charles R. Webster.... 5.00 
Sheboygan James Ford Doyle 5.00 Jomes H. Wheeler.... 5.00 West De Pere 
James J. Gerend • 6.00
William W. Wicks.... 5.00 Thomas F. Heorden.-.. 5.00 
Harold A. Gottsocker.. 25.00 Richard J. Gottsocker.. 10.00 Wisconsin Dells Cano/ Zoff* New Z^alamd
fCneroI Point 

Arthur W . Neuses 10.00 
Hans O. Hellond 5.00 Ancon WoOingten William P. Gorgen 5.00 Wilbur J. Puhr 2.00 
Richard T. Lucke 5.00 
Robert E. Riordan 10.00 

Robert L. Rohde 3.00 William J. Sheridan, Jr. 25.00 Minong Joseph H. Trilling 10.00 John Edward Swain 2.00 
Harold J. Wilson 3.00 
Slinger Wyoming Balboa 
FhilippiMs

Louis S. O'fmer 10.00 
Neenoth Cheyenne Garland Francis Dowling 5.00 Manila 
Francis J. Bon 5.00 

James E. Asmuth 10.00 
So. Milwaukee 

Thomas G. Kossis 25.00 Enrique Jose Brias 50.00 Raymond M. Schleck, Jr. 25.00 
Robert F. Bernard 5.00 Fort Oovis 
Albert J. Muench 5.00 Fred R. Kellogg 5.00 Coe A. McKenno, Jr... 10.00 James G. Murphy 25.00 Vincent J. Hanrohon 25.00 Eduordo G. Roxas 250.00 
Stevens Point 
New Holstein 
McFodden 

David Krembs 10.00 
Edward P. Longenfeld.. 25.00 
James H. Levi 5.00 Jas. W. Lawler 10.00 
Robert M. Longenfeld.. 20.00 Cenf. America
Hadrian E. Manske 5.00 
Puerto Rico 
Bawlins 

San Salradore Oconoroowoc John F. Mohoney 50.00 
San Juan 

Sturgeon Bay Gustavo Rolando Duorte 2.00 
J. Jacob Kunz 5.00 Robert Lucas Forbes, Jr. 1£ ^
Eugene H. Bernhardt.. 10.00 Fred C. Miller 100.00 Paul Francis McManus.. 10.00 
Bock Springs 

Charles F. Schmied 10.00 Robert F. Timmel 5.00 Armond W. Kellogg... 5.00 J. Hemandex Usera.... 5.00 
Cuba 
Superior 
Sinclair 

Oshkosh Cardenas 
NeilW. Flinn 10.00 
Michael H. Nolan 25.00 John E. Dempsey 25.00 Joseph F. Gall 5.00 Alfredo Bias Smith 1.00 ^ Jos. F. Dempsey 10.00 Howoff Chos. J. Fiss 15.00 
Theresa FOBEIGN Habona Henolnln 
Horold J. Schumerth... 3.00 
Robert O. Baker 50.00 Christopher C. Fitzgerald 50.00 Thos. W . Flynn, Jr 10.00 
Alaska 
Park Falls Tomahawk 
Fairbanks 

James Jos. Leahy 35.00 
Charles F. Jensen 5.00 
Dutch W. Indies Venexuela
Chos. W. Oreston 5.00 

Ambo Coripito PesHtigo Two Bivors Juneau 
Paul A. Dohr 1,00 Thomas Edward Niquette 1.00 Felix Joseph Toner 25.00 Charles Joseph Schwarz 10.00 Joseph G. McLoughlin.. 25.00 
Regular Face Type—^Alumni; Regular Bold—Other Friends. City and state totals will be found in the Master Table, pages 9 to 17. 
The University of Notre Dame graciously acknowledges gifts of art and books, gifts for research, etc., to the following departments: 
TO THE DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY 
1 Petrographic Microscope from Mr. Earle Smith, Chief Metallurgist, Republic Steel Corp., Cleveland, Ohio (valuation, $1800) 
TO THE COLLEGE OF COMMERCE 
(The Outdoor Advertising Foundation) 

Standish Barnes O. A  $250.00  Sechts Poster Advt  Co  15.00  
Newport Poster O. A  125.00  J. W. Bacon, Inc  25.00  
Old Colony Advt. O. A  500.00  Piedmont  O. A  25.00  
Johnstown Poster O. A  100.00  Gnaster O. A  100.00  
Hessler Inc. O. A  50.00  Combs Advt  Co  25.00 '  
Eastern Conv. O. A  125.00  Combs Advt. Co  25.00  
Robinson O. A. Co  200.00  J. P. Baird  O. A  60.00  
Lewis O.  A  10.00  Rosenbaums  O. A  25.00  
Western  O. A  50.00  Marshfield Poster Advt Co  25.00  
,Outdoor Advt. Assn  2,500.00  Riverside Poster Advt  Co  25.00  
Gus Dulls Advt.  Co  50.00  Sears O. A. Co  25.00  
General O. A. Co., Chicago  5,000.00  Madison Poster Advt Co  10.00  
Outdoor Advt., N. Y. C  5,000.00  Gus Dulls Poster Advt. Co  25.00  
Pittsburgh O. A. Co  1,000.00  J. P. Baird O. A  60.00  
Rosenbaums  Signs  ..  25.00  Houston  Poster Co  100.00  
Frederickson Poster Co  15.00  Outdoor Advt. Co. of Mo  250.00  
Cleveland  O. A  500.00  Hayward Larkin  Co  25.00  
Pmighkeepsie  Advt.  Co  50.00  Outdoor Advt. Co. of Va  :  100.00  
Rochester Poster Co  ;  300.00  Big Four Advt. Co  25.00  
Columbus O. A  100.00  Outdoor Advt of N. Y.  1,500.00  
Coastal O. A  .  50.00  Outdoor Advt. Assn. of America  2,500.00  
Crawford  Advt.  Agency  250.00  Nolands Outdoor  Advt  Service  10.00^  
Bonnir Advt.  Co  10.00  Outdoor Advt. of N. M  100.00  '  
V. G. Bloede Co., Inc  _...  100.00  Parkinson Advt of Utah  10.00  
Illinois Posting Service, Inc  25.00  O. A. of Utah  ..  „  50.00  
Universal  Advertising  Service  50.00  O. A. of Oklahoma  500.00  
O. Mealin O. A  50.00  Three B. of Terre Haute  .-.  500.00  
O. A. of New Jersey  500.00  O. A. of Delaware  ...  200.00  
Yonkers O. A. ._.....'.  250.00  Milligan Adv. Assn  _.  50.00  
Kelliker Poster Co  25.00  O. A. of Northern §tates  250.00  
Stussy O. A. Co  25.00 .  Outdoor Adv. Assn. of Ind  -1,500.00  
Outdoor Advt of Alabama  200.00  Outdoor Adv. Assn. of W. Va  200.00  
Peoria Posting Serxdce  '.  100.00  Central O. A  _..;  1,000.00  
J. T. Bailey  100.00  Packer Corp  1,000.00  
Kankakee Advt  Co  ....  25.00  O. A. of Ohio  200.00  
R. C. Maxwell Co  100.00  
Tri-County Poster Advt  Co  50.00  TOTAL  ..$28,400.00  

*Receipts from October 7, 1946, to September 30, 1947 

TO THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
^ Aeronautical Engineerins 
m 1 Allison Aircraft engine complete with all equipment, 
P valued at $10,000.00, donated by the Allison Engine Corp. 1 Jet Engine—German Juno Type, donated by the 
U. S. Army Air Corps. 
Electrical Engineering 

1 specially constructed 7^-H.P. Electric-Dynamometer valued at $5,000.00, donated by the Westinghouse Manu­facturing Corp. 
Library 

Approximately 500 declassified reports of the National Defense Research Committee and the Office of Scientific Research and Development, donated by the Library of Congress. 
 Mechanical Engineering 
1 6'x25' Steel Engine Bed Plate valued at $2,000.00,  donated by the U. S. Steel Coip. 1 7'x 14'Steel Engine Bed Plate valued at $1,000.00,  donated by the U. S. Steel Coq>. 1 75-H.P. electric dynamometer complete with switch ^^' ^^""^ ^* $4,000.00, donated by the Studebaker 
2 6-cylinder 2-cycle General Motors Diesel Engines  valued at $10,000.00, donated by the General MottRS  Corp. 
1 100 KW Superior, 8-cylinder Diesel Engine with  generator valued at $80,(XX).00 donated by the U. S. Navy Department. 
1 30 KW Cummings, 6-cylinder Diesel Engine valued  at $20,000.00, donated by the U. S. Navy Department. 1 Reeves Variable Speed Drive valued at $2,000.00, 
 donated by the Reeves Corporation. 
TO THE GRADUATE SCHOOL 
Fellowships in the amount of $79,475.68 
American  Cyanimide  $1,500.00 
Bristol  2,000.00 
pCoca-Cola  3,200.00 
DuPont  -.  2,200.00 
Eastman Kodak  ...„  1,200.00 
General  Tire  15,200.00 
Ivano  2,375.68 
EU Lilly  10,900.00 
Miles  Laboratory  3,700.00  

 Mary M. Moore  1  ...  600.00  
 Sinclah- OU Co.  ......__:._....  L„„ 30,000.00  
 Smidi-Klein-French  _.  -.__..  2,000.00  
 Socony-Vacuum  :  :  2,000.00  
 Standard Oil, Ind  .  1,300.00  
 U. S. Rubber  _......  .  1,100.00  
— •  
 Total  ..-.  ­  _L$79,475.68  

Industrial Research in the amount of $11,060.28  • ••­ ­ 
Parke-Davis  Co  $3,333.28  J. P. Wagner  ..  5,000.00  
RepubUc  Steel  -.  727.00  
Utilities Research Coram  2,000.00  Total  L  ......  $11,060.28  
Government Research in the amount  of $304,616.79  

TO THE LIBRARY 

Joseph Kotcka, Clairton, Pa., 147 volumes Mrs. Claribel Hering: 2 carved blocks from a Roman Chariot; 4 gold Russian spoons; 1 gold Russian book all encrusted with colored enamel; 1 carved Chinese black 
R. E. F. Larsson, New York City, 158 volumes 
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, 14 volumes wood chest 
TO THE MEDIAEVAL INSTITUTE 
One copy of the fifteenth century edition of the De Anima of Cajetan of Thiene, from the Library of the Pon­tifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, Toronto. 
One hundred copies of V. L. Dedeck-Hery's edition of the anonymous eleventh century Old French. Life of St. Alexis in poetry from Madam Dedeck-Hery, widow of the author. 
One personally annotated copy of The Dialogues of St. Gregory the Great from Professor Charles Upton Clark, Professor Emeritus of Yale University. 
One copy of the 1643 edition of St. Thomas Aquinas' De Rebuspublicis (De Regimine Principum) from Doctor Carl Menger. 
One copy of Father Joseph L. Shannan's work on 
Good Works and Predestination According to Thomas of Strassbourg, OS.A., from the Augustinian Press, Wash­ington, D. C. 
A considerable number of off-prints of articles on terial for the study of Latin Palaeography^ Archaeology and Epigraphy, from Professor Charles Upton Clark. 
A collection of specimens of ancient and mediaeval scripts with notes on same, all in the author's own hand­\vriting, from Professor Charles Upton Clark „ 
One gramophone record of a reading of sections of Gueme's Vie De Sancta Thoma Becket illustrating the pronunciation of old French made by Professor Urtan T. Holmes, Jr., of the University of North Carolina, and pre­sented by him to the Institute. 
A loan of some twenty-five fragments of original mediaeval manuscripts mounted in gk^, and a collectxm of some thirty rare volumes illustrative of mediaeval Palaeography from Mr. Patrick L. O'Brien of the Uni­versity of Indiana. 
One informal lecture and one group conference with members of the facidty and student body fay Prc^essor Eti­enne Gilson of the French Academy on October 24, 1947. 
k 
mediaeval subjects from various American and European One informal lecture to members of the faculty and (scholars. student body by President Anton C. Pegis of the Pontifical Several hundred photographic reproductions of ma­Institute of Mediaeval Studies, December 4, 1947. 
Alumni to be Checked for the 1948 Directory 
(Note: The following names which did not appear in the 1947 list of Foundation con­tributors, should be checked carefully by the City Committees for correct addresses. The -•Uumni Director)' to be published in 1948 should find a maximum of correct addresses. Many instances in the years immediately following the war have indicated that alumni have moved, or are still in school or in service, or that the alumnus himself is not at the address but mem­bers of the family receive his mail there with complications of. forwarding. To give our Director)- its maximum efiBcienc)', and to insure the best contacts with alumni, the foUowng persons should be contacted for their proper address, to be forwarded to the Foundation Office.) 
Alabama 
Bxrminghani 
Thomas J. Grimes 
Joseph B. McGeever 
Cullman 
Charles J. Kleibacker 
Montgomery 
Johq A. Yuns 
Spring Hill 
CliftOQ M. Louisell 
Tuscaloosa 
Francis \V. Thomas 
ilrizono 
Jerome 
Arthur J. Selna 
Litchfield Park 
Francis R. Cross 
Nogdes 
Jas. V. Robins 
Phoenix 
John A. CaroUo 
Lester C. HcEcle 
Raymond ,T. Keiser 
Paul E. Rist 
Prescott 
John S. Flinn 
Sofiord 
Marvin £. Larson 
Scottsdole 
Charles J. O'Connor 
Arkansas 
Arkadelphia 
William L. Quinhn, Jr. 
Fori Smith 
Ho^-t Kirkpatrick 
Little Bock 
Warren Baldwin 
William J. Metrailer 
Burt L. Roberts 
Aloysius Wrapc, Jr. 
Osceola 
Thomas R. Goetz Hollywood Plin J. Swanson 

California Bion B. Vogcl 
Carrol AV. Sax 

John W. \Vadden Alconeda George A. Wagner 
Louis W. Smith Jamei 1. Wargin 
Robert L. Colsan 
Inglewood 

Arthur M. Funke Vincent A. McCanney Moy^ood Harold C Schwan 
Kenneth X. Zike 

Altadena Ra^-mond C. Zailer Robert L. ^Valdeck 
ICU VoUey 
Elomatfa River PO 
Edwar4 T. Fulham Jay A. Quacly Arcadia 
Paul E. Rubl-c 
Modesto 
Lajolla 
Richard "Lynf* [
John B. Guggisbcn? 
Associated 

Alorris R. Locke Albert A. Pers^-n MontebeUo Charles L. Pers>"n 
Lemon Grove Fnindj S. Tuck 

Gordon Walker Atherton 
Montrose 
Livermore Robert K. Kelley LawTence T. Shaw Nevin R. XfcCormick 
Edward F. O'Meam Napa 
Berkeley 

Frands E. Marra Mylcs H. Sinnott 
Long Beach Nationol City 

Ra>-mond P. Fidlcr Beverly Hills Paul J. Frey Carlos Tavarcs Edu-ard £. Hamel Louts Berardi Jack C. Leahy 
North Hollywood 

John H. Heara Frank M. Meyer Samuel Lancendorf Stephen W. Rebeil James W. Fox Bernard F. ^[c^Iahon James A. Rudolf Slax J. Friedman Edsar J. Melchione Howard S. Webster P. ^L Johnstone, Jr. 
A. Lej Read 

Blue Jay Los Angeles Ookdale 
Edwin J. Lister, Jr. ^tcr^•>•n A. Aggeler Thomas J. Ahearn 
Harold A. Bair 

Frauds J. Barrj-Burbank Henry V. Baum 
OaUcmd 

Regis H. Bittner Arthur C. Fiedler Leroy R. Broun Frands A. Andrews Floris D. Leach Dr. Frank J. Brcslin John W. Carey 
Arthur L. Cant? Paul M. Enrigh* John W. Carberry Thomas M. Fitipatrict, Jr. Calif. Hot Springs WiUiam P. Clarke, Jr. Luke L. Kelly 
P. Hoffman Coady 
Dr. Leo G. Du-an WHIiara M. Crilly 
Oxnard 
Charles E. Cusack 
Joseph A. Daley. Jr. .Arthur B, Kelley Consarillo John F. Daly Floyd F. Miller 
Clarence J. Derrick Louis F. McKean 
Thos. A. J. Dockweiler, Jr. 
Frauds F. Dukctte 
Palo Alto 
Delmar J. Edmondson Frank P. Dcnney 
Colma 
Harry W. Flannery John J. Lucas Garry Friedman^ Afardimont Schwartz Ro7 W. Pinelli 
Stephen .A. Gavin Albert A. Vandeni'oort Daniel N. Herwit Marcel C. Hiller 

Glendole Jos. P. Hiss Pasadena Martin J. Husung Leo J. Bancs 
Roger P. Cuminini;s 
James A. Judie. Jr. 
William F. Dillhoefer John JL Hughes Thomas J. Kelley Franklyn E. Miller Douglas J. AIcDonald James M. Kelly Gordon L. Krauss Albert L. Krug Paso Robles Harbor City Charles H. L>-nch Thomas J. Barry 

Duncan S- McDonald William S. Dillon George D. McDonald John A. Mies 
Piedmont 

John U. Miller Hawthorne Denii A. Morrison 
John A. Nicolson Charles S. Murphy Ralph F. Ghcrna Daniel J. ifurphy Roger ^V. Yount* Dr. John P. Naughton 
Redwood City 

Sophus F. Neble Daniel £. Suin\-an Frederick J. O'Brien Hayward George D- O'Brien Joseph W. Pou-ers 
Riverside 

£dt\-ard C. ^[assa WiUiam H. Powers Vincent G. Probst 
Arthur J. Wieic Earle C. Rex 

John J. Rider John H. Smith 
Hemet Sacramento 

Francis B. Kearns Albert B. Willett 
St Mary's 

James Phelan 
San Bernardino 

J. R. Bergman 
San Diego 

James A. Bartley Joseph F. DeFranco Richard J- Donnelly Gerard J. O'Brien, Jr. James M. O'TooIe Walter C. Sicffen 
San Francisco 

William A. Branigan 
Francis H. Boland William T. B\Tnc 
Paul E. Carrico Eustace Cullinan, Jr. John F Dunne WiUiam J. Farrell Morris D. Feldman Cyril Harbecke Edw. C. KcUy Eugene T. Leonard James A. McKenna 
Alfred L. Meyers 
E. Robert Nigro Philip P. Paschel Philip J. Ryan 
San Gabriel 

David N. Gibson Arthur D. Rhodei Augustine B. Zcl) 
San Jose 

Dennis A. Heenan 
Frands Olson 
Bernerd M. Regan 
San Leondro 

John J. Simko 
San Mateo 

Raymond C. Cowles George P. Leyes 
Santa Barbara 

Alexander H. Blsbee 
Santa Monica 

Earle D. Barry John V. Donahus 
South Gate 

Edward J. Hogan 
South Lagima 

^faurice F. Smitli 
Spring Valley 

Stanley J. Partykn 
Trona 

Irwin F. Sdiwein 
Tule Lake 

Francis J. O'Connor 
Upland 

Arthur E. Parisien 
VonNuys 
William J. Murphy 
Venice 
Vincent J. Duggan 
Whittier 
Edgar H. Lloyd Wilmcf E. Ridi 
Williams 
John H. O'Donndl 
Colorado 
Boulder 
Henry L. Morenc^­
Colorado Springs 
Edward B. Casey 
Paul E. Fuclis Robt. A. Peck Patrick J. Oiiinn Jesse O. Sutherland 
Denver 
Adair C. Barlow Thomas G. Ban->' Emmctt P. Barton Joseph Breslaw WiUiam J. Carson John F. Connell Henry J. Dillon Alexander L. Douds Herbert C. Fairall John L. Falkenberg Albert T. Frantz Harry W. Laurence 
Jerome Mathews Philip E. McCarty Felix Pogliano. Jr. Frank M- Sabino Paul R. Santopictro John T. Sheehan 
Charles Smith 
Arthur G. Starr 
Frands E. Widgcr 
Durongo 
John L. Duggan 
La Jara 
James R. Carwin 
Pueblo 
Frank Pr>'or, Jr. 
Trinidad 
Charles AL Barrack Roger G. BarracI; Eusebio Chacon Marion J. Maurello 
Connecticut 
Avon 
Richard L. Mullaney 
Bridgeport 
Joseph S. Bandurich Daniel E. Brennan Edward R. Broughel George C. Crowlej 
/ 

4­
Elmer L. Harlcabus Francis J. Herb Joseph P. Hmurcik Claude £. Johnson Nicholas A. Lanese Elwood J- Lavery Donald A. I.eporo Edward P. Monahan John A. Murphy Harry L. Norris, Jr. Joseph J. Pivarnik Russel J. RcdKatu Joseph £. Russo Michael R. ScuUy John B. Sodoski Walter J. Stapleton . Thomas J. Tarasovic Henry T. Walsh 
Cheshire 
John M. Gtnz Geo. R. Ladner 
Danbury 
George F. O'Brien 
Donielson 
Stanley J. WeiRcl Steven J. Weisel 
Dorien 
Donald J. O'Brien 
Derhy 
Tcrrence J. O'Neill 
Devon 
Richard J. ScanncU 
East Haven 
RoKcr F. Whalen 
East Norwolk 
Andrew R. AfcElroy Leo C. McEIroy 
East Port Chester 
Francis J. Detscher 
Fairfield 
J. William Costello Thomas F. Murphy 
Greenwich 
John F. CallaRhan GcorRc G. Cecala Joseph F. MansBeld Stanley J. Podposki 
Hartford 
Francis T. Ahearn Francis M. Ahern John D. Carney Harry J. Deegan Paul J. McCormack John l\ Smith John H. SulIiN-an 
Kensington 
Ra>'mond A. McKcon 
Litchfield 
Alan B. Mooney 
Long Hill 
Edward J. O'Donnell 
Manchester 
Wm. V. G'Hara 
Meriden 
Paul W. McMahon Joseph P. Patrucctt 
InCUord 
John .'\. Bcirne Peter G. Bcirne Willbm J. Bonj'ai 
Naugotuclt 
Robert L. Scally 
Ne w Britain John M. Cianct 
S. A. Vetrano 
New Haven 
Salvatore D. Bcrnardi Paul A. Blondin Edward A. Byrne Loiii< ^ Oappucci Frank J. Can John F. Clifford Leo F. Craig Thomas J. Curran Charles Ducey Raynham J. Hoey Frederick E. Mott Stephen &1. Kfunay Herman M. Romberg John J. Sheehan Thomas J. Sheehan 
New London 
Russell £. Fitzgerald 
John F. Herlihy, Jr. 
New Preston 
Arthur E. Larkin 
North Braniord John A. Hart 
Norwolk 
James E. Barr>' 
John F. Lyons 
A. J. Panclla 
PloinTiUe Samuel J. Alinella 
Redding Mario A. Pottctti 
Ridgeiield John H. Harfst 
Southington John L. Zilly 
South Norwolk Edu-ard H. Nichols 
Stamford .Arthur R. Duffy 
Strotford William F. Mulrenan 
H. T. Cesau Edu-ard J. O'Mahony .Arthur C. Ley Andrew G. Patrick 
Suiiield 
Chas. J. Kelly 
Thompsonville 
Sabath ^f. Nigra 
Torrington 
Bernard J. Casey, Jr. 
Wollingiord 
John J. Kacprz>'nski 
Waterbury 
Norbert A. Aleksis Robert R. Andres Harold P. Hanlon James M. ^lonaifhan Jos. M. Sulli\'an \Vm. F. Sullivan 
West Hartford 
Lyndsay R. dc Manbey Charles S. Morris 
Westport 
Wm. SchomburK 
WiUimantic 
Francis J. D'Muhala Alan £ . Donovan Eugene K. Moriarty 
Windsor 
Peter J. Wacks 
Delaware 
Claymont 
Stanley R. Sheeran 
Seaford 
John M. Byrne Robert P. Leonard 
Wilmington 
Paul A. Borgman Robert H . Darling Joseph T. Fay. Jr. Robert J. Francis John £. Gorman Carl F. Irwin Charles J. Kelley James A- Kelley Albert T. Mertes John E. Rcith Alfred A- Smaddwski 
D. of Co/urn. 
Chevy Chase 
Vincent D. Engeh 
Washington 

William J- Ahern Harry M. Ambrose Calvin J. Blattner William J. Brady Laurence Bungardeanu Louis G. Cacchioli Carl G. Christiansen Edward G. Conroy Francis C. Donoghue Donald B. Driscoll Joseph £. Duquette, Jr. Robert H. Egan Paul A. Fisher Robert P. Flynn Wm. M. Galvin Richard W. Giroux James D. Hayes Ra>-mond T. Holden, Jr. Donald M. Kennedy James £, Krall Joseph A. LoughliQ Thomas F. Leahey Alfred F. Loritsch Clarence J. KfcCabe Emmett A. AfcCabe Francis J. McGloin Wilbert M. Mclncrney Paul £ . Mennc.!; Hugh C. Mitchell 
Jos. D. Afontedonico Elmer J. Murphy Thomas J. Noon 
J. R. O'Hanlon Robert E. O'Hara 
E. Joseph Palmer Bruce Rogerson Murray A. Russell. Jr. John £. R>an Paul E. Sweeney Francis X. Walker Clinton H . Watson Earl IL Winterrowd Vernon Witkowski John E. Wood 
F/orJdo 
Aubumdole 

David J. Smith 
Bartow 

Lawrence M. Zell 
Eoco Boton 

John F. Vcrhoeven 
Coconut Grove 

Harry S. Cahill 
Gainesville 

James C. Downey 
lacksonTille 

James R. Brown Walter J. Haecker Raymond P. Neu 
Lakeland 
John C. Webster 
juam 
George Cour/ John A. Kotte Daniel J. Lino James M. McMullen George F. Meister William F. Morrow Vvo T. Oestet Harold J. Shumate WiUiam J. Nagenftast Richard M. Sadowski Arthur L. Himbert 
Orlando 
William B. Akin 
Palm Beoch 
Robert C. Balfe 
Port St Jo* 
Ralph J. Trexler 
SL Augustine 
Charles R. Bennett Howard D. BUKCT Charles G. Oliveros, Jr. 
S t Petersburg Henry W. Fritj 
Son Antonio AUred O. Kiefer 
Sarasota William J. Sullivan 
Tallahassee Phillip J. Lucicr 
Robert M. Marshall 
Tompa 
Leo St. John 
Umatilla 
Leo S. FiUys 
West Palm Beach 
Daniel Downey, Jr. Edward J. Korpt 
Vniite Springs Joseph £ . Ryan 
Georgio 
Atlanta 
Lawrence D. Benedict Robert J. Lander Walter P. McCourt, Jr. Roger Sullivan 
Augusta 
WilUam P. Callahan, Jr. 
Columbus 
Daniel Hull 
Conyers 
Victor J. Assad 
La Gronge 
Eugene C. Sutherland 
Marietta 
WiUiam T. Lyons 
John Monaco, Jr. 
Idaho 
Boise 
John M. Neitzel 
Idaho Falls 

Walter D. Bauchman James R. Brady 
Pocotello Joba L. Hood 
Illinois 
Algonquin 

Robert T. Caveny 
Alton 

Bernard C. Bresson John E. McLouRhlin 
Umbaj 

Earl J. Antolne Glen W. Enfeldt Daniel J . Sullivan Edward M. Sullivan 
Aiijo 

Michael S. Lambert 
Jlrlington Heights 
Arthur G. EppiK 
Assumption 

Anthony M. Jackson 
Aurora 

David H . Armstron;; Thad J. Bednard Herbert J. Btaun Jos. Feldott Jos. Wm. Gosselin Walter R. O'Maller Anthony F. Fotenziani Chatlei A. Roth 
Boning ton 

B. Paul Susen 
Baordstown 

John C. Schulu 
Berwyn 

James R. Bacon William E. Baldwin Anthony F. Duiminff Nicholas S. Gulyassy William T. Raese 
Big Bock 

Adrian M. Cruise 
Bloomington 

John £ . Corbitt 
Blue Uand 

Thos. A. Reardon 
Bourboimais 

Philip M. Sweet 
Bradford 

Toseph E. O'Brien 
Bridgeport 

James E. Diver 
Kocton 

Jos. p . Sullivan 
Bushnell 

Ridiard C. Benkendorl 
Cairo 

GeorKS J* Schaefer James B. Walder 
Colimiet Gl r 

Georgt L. Housley Stephen A. Sbapley 
Campus 

Francis T. Walsh 
Corthag* 
Willred C. CnOill 
Ceair^a 
Edward F. Knsiee 
'rnllllUMII^U ­
Carl E. Sdrabert Rodney' J. Shanghnrssey 
Chicago 
Harry C. Atmim Cecil Alexander Philip J. Anmten Beniamin C. B»riirafh Julius P. Bambeix John A. Baldwin Lawrence J. Barr Norman J. Barry Paul K. Batsahm Daniel M. Barton James A. BaaL Jr. Louis B. Berdslea Richard P. Berxen Wilbnr V. Bennid Harry M . Biedka Harold C. Blakeman EugenA P. Bloemsma Leonard J. Blommaert Edmund G. Btiti Lester W. Brown John F. Bulfin John C. Bulger Raymond M. Bulkicwicx Robert L. Burke Paul Bynw Walter E. CahiU Charlel F . Calvert Robert P. Capesiui Robert F. Carey Ridiard M. Carrigan Jama P. CaiToII 
G. L. Clemens John C. Clyne Neal P. Cochran 
R. F. Collins William P. Osneford David R. Condon Andrew Conlia James T. Coimets William J. Coiuon John F. Coimdine Arthur L. CmrarelTi Thomas F. Cosgrove George F . Costello Fred G. Cox EngeiM C. Coyls Alexander R. Craw Edgar Crilly Geo Crilly .Joseph E. Crisanti Jos. B. Cronin > 
John F. Croaks 
Francas J. Crowe 
Francis W. Crowley 
James H . Crowley 
Patrick F . Growler 
Matthew J. CuUen 
Roger S. Gomnungs 
Manrictt J. Curran, Jr. 
Harry A. Curtis 
Vincent J. Cusfaing 
Thos. A* Daffroa 
WOEam L. Duly 
Edward F. Dans 
Etfannnd J. DeClercq 
John F. Ddpb 
Albert CDenten 
John M.. Denten 
Cornell L. Dcreng 
Francis Derrick 
Gerald J. Desmond 
Owen £. Desmond 
John J. Devereux 
Lawrence A. Devereux 
James T. Devine 
Robert Dixon 
Vincent A. Dolan Russell J. Dolce Robert J. Donahue Chris. J. Donnelly, Jr William L. Dor)^ John J. Doyle Stephen J. DriscoQ Raymond P. Drymabki 
T. Robert Ducey Vincent P. Ducey Paul E. DnChanns John E. Duffy Robert K. Duffy Robert T. Duffy Thomas R. Dugaa Tames B. Duggan Wmiani K. Dwycr Frands X. Egaa Charles J. Engl^art Edw. r. Esdier Wm. J. FaymonvOIe. Jr. Edw. J. Feehery Wmiani P. Fedey 

Louis M. Fethersoft Robt. J. Fischer 
Harold P. Fisher 
Joseph E. FitzRCiald 
James J. Flanigan 
John C. Flanii^n, Jr. William T. Fl>-nn Paul Foffarty 
G. B. Foley Jas. W. Foley John R. Fos Louis G. Franke Frauds L. Freclv Albert J. Freund Emil J. Fritch David W. Harris Joseph V. Huijhes Thomas C. Gallaither Michael F. Gaul Gerald J- Gaynor John J. Geddes Wm. H. Geddes Teofd R. Gedmin Zanny R. Gedmin Arthur J. Geis Wm. J. Gibbons John M. Giltinon Wm. P. Glasheen Joseph T. Glcason EdH-ard ^U Gleason Bernard S. Good 
A. F. Gorman Joseph E. Gorman John J. Griffin Joseph W. Griffin Ra>-mond W. Hacker Wm. S. Hallisey Robert F. Hanlon Edivard V. Hanrahan Joseph W*. Harne? Fred J. Haw, Jr. Leuis Havhurst Johu F. Hcaly Richard G. Hec^mian P^ul C. Hcidkamp Bernard T. Heitz 
C. Thomas Hcllwiff Afartin A. Hendela Daniel HicJtey Georpi A. HittRini Ray M. HilHard EuRene ^f. Hines Leo W. Hodcl Charles G. Hollov^'ay Frederick J. Holsinger, Jr. Richard N. Hosteny Robert E. Huber C>TiI A. Hunhes William P. Hussev Robert H. Tuel William J- .Tann darence T. Jans Howard F. Jcffen Thomas G. Jordan Marcellus L. Josl>-n Adolph J. .Tudae Stephen R. .Tuzwik Raymond A. Kane Francis J. Karl Herman J. Karthciser Alexander J. Katauskas Milton A. Katz Enmiett G. Keefe Frank J. Keenan Albert M. Kelly James J. Kennedy Tliomas J. Kerritpn John W. Kicly 
Joseph P. Kinneary Frank Klaas Joseph S. Kobrynski Gerard A. Koch Richard N. Konkowski Franc^ G. Kopczak Anthony J. Kopecky Bernard .T. Konten Stanley A. Kudlacz Thaddeus E. I^abedz Edmn J. I^ey Nelson N. Lampert Leo A. I^anl.^n, Jr. Edwin J. Larney HuRh T. Lavcry 
M. Raymond ILawlcr • Robert C. LeJeune James J. Lewis Mardn H- Linskcv Dominic D. Lizzadro John P. Loni; 
G. M. Lucas Paul S. Lueken John Lukanitsch John F. Lync^ John P. Lvnch Danid L. ^fadden 
W. Raymond Maher Jas. Wm. }kbfaoney James £. Mann William F. XCartin George J. Massey Gcorfte M. Maypole Anthony J. Mazziottt Ward W. McCairon Wm. D. McCarthy Frank B. McCarty Thomas A. McCauRhey William T. McCaufihey Ghas. E. McDcrmott 
Joseph J. McDonou(;h 
Georse P . McElIiROtt 
Michael E. McGeoRhciran 
Bernard G. McGIono 
Stephen F. McGonide 
William J. McGrath 
R. G. McGuire Thoma; E. McInt>Te Robert J. McKeatint; 
D. J. McKcndry Daniel J. McXamara, Jr. Walter F- McNamara John F. McXeUis Benedict L. McShane John A. AfcShane Edv\-ard J. Measher Philip F. Meistcrhcim Harry A. Mercer Jerome L. Mescrvcy .Albert L. Metcalf Frederick J. Meyer Leo L. Michuda Edward T. Mieszko\«ki Charles F. Miles Francis J. MilHgan Wm. J. MUroy Richard C. Mizerski Richard J. Monroe Richard P. Moody Allan J. Moore Edward ^1 . Z^foran Walter A. Mortenscn. Jr. Afario P. Mosele Timothy Mo>-nihan John A. Muldoon. Jr. Joseph R. Munizzo John F. ^[urtauI;h Richard J- Nash Mitchell C. Newgass Bernard W. Newmann GeorRo M. Neylon John J. Nowafc. Jr. 
S. T. Nowotarski Stanley C. Obelenus Harold R. O^Brien James J. O'Brien William J. O'Connell John B. O'Donashue Frands J. Oelerich John L. O'Hanley Russell J. O'Hare Aldec F. O'Heam Francis J. O'Kcefe John A. O'Leary Vincent D. O'Malley Thomas J. O'Meara Hunh O'Neill Bruno P. Opcla Albert V. Orr Justin R. O'TooIe Paul L. O'Toole Robert H. O'Toole Edw. J. Ott. Jr. William G. PaRc Cornelius Palmer Max PascofF James P. Patterson James J. Petrillo John Plant 
John F. Powers 
M. K. Powers Martin J. Powers Oliver P. Powers Paul R. Psik Philip F. Ouinn Robert V. Rademacher John C. Radosevich James M. Rasen, Jr. Henry R. Ra^o GeorRC L. Kassas Geome T. Rate^an William F. Ray, Jr. 
J. J. Reidy Joseph C. Repine Paul H. Rice. Jr. James C. Rich John W. Richord James S. Ri^ney Wm. T. Riirney Huch V. Rile^ Clifford W. Rini;%rald Jas. E. Roach 
G. A. Rocheleau Wm. F. Rupp David R. Rusk John S. Rusnak LawTcnce P, R>an 
O. F. Rydell Frank X. Rydzewski Louis J. R>'mkus Ricnev J. Sackley Louis J. Salmon Zanc J. Sandom William G. Schenk William J. Shanahan Robert J. Shea William J. Shea LawTencc F. Sibr Charles R. Sidncr Frank E. Siudzinski Jos. G. Smietanka Frank A. Smola John L. Sooni; James J. Spain 

Howard J. Spencer 
Harmon N. Spina 
LawTcnce W. Spuller 
James K. Stack 
N. P. Starshak 
R. J. Stemper John F. Stoeckley Joseph C. Stmad Chester N. Sullivan Joseph J. Sullivan Jos. J. Sullivan, Jr. Joseph S. Sullivan William J. Taylor Norbert P. Tinnes Daniel A. Tobin Andrew C. Try Albert UebbinR Casimir J. Vaikasas Arthur H. Valicz Clayton H. Van Buren 
R. M. Vandcrhaydcn Henry N. Van Ettcn Milton L. Van Etten Stacy A. Van Pctten Paul D. Van Warner Jerome A. Vesely Edward F. V>-zral Georsc Waaee Paul R. Waddell Jos. A. Wasner Lav\Tence A. Wallace Frank J. Walsh James Sf. Whalea Edward T. Wilson Andrew H. Wolski Robert E. Wright Thaddeus Z. Xelowski Jas. F. Yount; Richard H. Zeller Francis A. Ziberic Bernard J. Zimmerman Ralph E. Zimmerman 
Chicago Heights Fronds J. Armbruster Walter L. Ashdo\*-n 
Cicero 

Clarence W. Troost 
Clarendon IHU 

Donald C. Malloy 
Cnrstal Lake 

Georse C. Lennartz 
Dolton 

Robert Galleffos 
Danville 

Donald S. Baldwin 
Everett A. Blackman 
Francis J. Meyer 
John P. Me>-cr 
Decatur 

Gerald G. Hogan James H. Afontedenico 
Deertield 

John T. Benedict 
Robert Buriihart 
DeKolb 

John B. HenauRhan 
DePue 

Gail V. Gurnett 
Des Plaines 

Kenneth A. Forbes 
Dixon 

Robert Bracken John H. CahiU Joseph P. Judse David Afurohy Edward S. Murphy 
Dolton 

Edward F. GalleKos WiUard C. Money 
East Chicago 

Thomas W. Tobin Geoi^e A. Skeyhan 
East Moline 

Camiel F. Bracke 
East P«oria 
Stephen J. Schmidt 
Eost S t Louis 
Daniel F. McGlynn. Jr. Joseph A. O'Neil 
Edwordsvill* 
Piul J. Stolze 
Elgin 
Arthur J. Mitchell 
John B. Newman 
Wm. E, Perc« 
Henry S. Tholen 
Joho R. Tobin. Sr. 
Elizabeth 
Cletus S. Banworth 
Elmhurst 
George W. Calhoun Auimst G. Desch Leo A. Hrachovec Harold L. Kohlman Clarence A. LaFoUette Lyman A. Shields John O. Weibler John M. Hcrbstritt, Jr. 
Ehnwood Park 
Robert H. Raaf 
Eronston 
Richard J. Carney 
Henry C. Doolimt 
Thomas J. Duffy 
John C. Kavanau^h 
John Af- ]Ma!oney 
Dennis B. O'Brien 
Stephan F. Riordan 
Chester J. Roberts 
Alfred H. Rohol 
William J. Shea. Jr. 
Peter W. Stewart 
John P. Winte 
Freeport 
Donald R. Grant 
Thos. S. Lawless 
Galesburg 
Paul T. Dom John F. Poscue 
Edw. P. Slaven 
Geneva 
John W. O'ConneU 
Gilleside 
Thomas P. Galbraith 
Glencoe 
Elmer F. Layden 
Glen EUyn 
Thomas J. O'Neil 
Glenview 
Joseph G. Beckmann Monty J. Tcnnes, Jr. 
Godfrey 
Frauds P. Yocket 
GoU 
Alphonse A. Sonuner, Jr. 
Grant Parie 
Charlu A. Shirk 
Green VdUey 
Max L. Clark 
Hoirisbuiv 
Dnije £. Cavencfer 
Hearer 
Frands J. -Nees 

Ifighlond Park 
Joha DHSCOH 
William J. Fitzgerald 
lEghwood 

R. D. O'Connor, Jr. 
ISnesdale 

Richard C. Bodie 
Homewood 

Joseph P. Henncberry 
JoUet 

Lea 1. Benief 
Michael J. Conw-ay 
Elvin J. Deal 
Josenh E. Du-vef 
Francis P. Kelly 
Chas. D. Lorenzo 
Donald R. Mandich 
Joe Silk 
Jos. J. Walbco 
Kankakee 

Clarence J. Kennedy 
John E. Mortell 
John S. O'Brien 
Paul K. O'Jfallcy 
Francis J. Schumacher 
Kenilwoith 

John A. Breen. Jr. 
Joseph P. Mannebach 
Francis D. Partlan 
Kewonee 

Maurice J. Garland 
Thos. J. Welch 
Paul R. Zani* 
LaGrange 

Francis J. Chambers 
Donald £. Kralovec 
George T. Landry 
William E. Mahin 
Lake Forest 
Paul A. Host Thomas J. Johnson, Jr. 
Lake Zurich 
Edward G. Lejeunc 
Lasalle 

James F. CahiU, Sr. 
Edward J. Malone 
Lemont 

Robert J. Gerhard 
Frank £. Piekarski 
B. J. Shafianski 
Lexington 

R. Parker Sullivan 
Lincoln 

Edw. W. McGounh 
Macomb 

Eugene M. Ouinn 
Thos. F. Walsh 
Mottoon 

Robert N. LauKhlin Francis A. Winiunger 
Melroie Park 
Harry A. Busscher 
Ewett F. MurTihy 
MelTin 

Ambrose J. Freehill 
Mendota 

James H. Dubbs John W. Dubbs, Jr. John W. Dubbs, Sr. 
Sfidlothion 

Edward VT. Hallauer 
Morrison 
Augbstino J. Benedette Carl E. Quinn 
Metropolis 
Virgil J. Kennedy 
IGdlothian 
Roger S. Cummings 
Mokena 
Wm. J. Weber 
Moline 
Harry J. Cozad 
Charles J. Kint; 
Jos. C. Meeisman 
Hayes Afurphy 
Steven J. Roeenski 
Chas. F. Sollo 
Geo. A. Uhlmeyer 
Momence 
Wm. J. Parish 
Mound City 
Daniel 0'SuIli\-an, Jr. 
Mount Carmel Walter F. kolb 
Mundelein Silvin P. Duba Donald A. Fitzgerald 
Naperville 
Joseph A. Bircs 
Bernard J. Flock 
Niles Center 
Lionel £. Austin Joseph A. Dockendorfl 
Noble 
James E. Hubartt 
Northbrook 
Tames O. Kcarr.s William P. White, Jr. 
Oak Park 
Adrian J. Baskerville John A. Buckley 
J. Marr Condon Joseph Dire Geo. W. Doherty James E. Downs John M. Doyle Edward B. Duni.gan John J. Endres Joseph E. Farmar William G. Goelitz John A. Henneberry Ed- Keenan Paid J. Larmer Arthur R. Maehler Ralph V. McDonald Raymond E. McGrath Robert A. McGrath Richard G. Murphy Frank J. O'Brien William F. O'Lean-Robert E. Rock George R. Schiewe Peter O. Steger, Jr. Herb-rt P. Valker 
OdeU 
Francis A. Ralph 
Okawville 
William G. Frank 
Olney 
George T. Weber, Jr 
Ottawa 
John J. Lucer Noibert J- Sinoo 
Panel 
Leo J. Condon Adoph J. Was 
Paris Leonard H. WoUe 
Park Bidge 
Buron L. Casey Thos. D. Kelly 
C. Lawrence Lynn 
Peorio 
Leonard F. Barton Leo F. Ca\'anauRh Ralph J. Furtoss Leish F. Gibson Altwrt E. Grimm John £. Hicinbothem John E. KinK John A. Noppenbcrser 
V. Don O'Mcara Henry R. Pratt 
R. W. Rainey John O. Schcrer Joseph T- VoeRcle 
Peru Harold J. Toblcr 
Plomfield Joseph A» Hcncbr>\ Jr. 
Piano Edward J. Heinz 
Quincy 
Edw. J. Heintz Paul J. Jacoby Paul Ward 
Bichmond 
John R' Gordon 
Hiver Forest 
Arthur J. Bidwill Maynard J. Clemens James J. Donlan Wm. D. Halloran Wilbert J. Hiesins David E. McCracken Walter J. O'Brien William B. PrendcrRast Robert J. RiRney William F. Sulli\-an James C. Walsh 
Biver Grove 
S. J. Cotter Joseph N. Wischnia 
BiTerside 
Joseph P. Danchy Robt. J. KluR Mark J. Lies Peter J. Ronchetti 
Bobinson 
Daniel W. Sherrod Vincent A. Sherrod Alexander S. Wibon Paul F. O'Neil 
Bockford Robert J. Doran 
J. Henry Fannan Ra)tnond Gaffney EuRene T. Leonard, Jr. Albert R. Monti Harold J. O'Connor Frank J. M. Petrit: Edw-ard J. Rodtjers, Jr. 
Bock Island 
James C. Gallisan Willard C. Hofer 
M. J. Murphy 
SL Charles Philip C. DeBruync 
SkoUe Henry G. O'Connell 
Springfield 
Nicholas C. Amrhcin Walter E. Bernard William R. Bernard 
Edward J. Bethke 
James W. Fogarty 
Clare P Hafel 
Geoi^Q E. ManRan 
Bernard A. Walsh 
Robert M. Walsh 
Frank R. Zimmerman 
Sterling Edw. F. Mea 
S. Thomas Mcc 
Stockton Leonard H. Eich 
Streator John A. Berry Elmer J. Mohan 
Summit Louis R. Gentili 
Thornton Reno B. Zarantoncllo 
Trenton John J. Glanzner 
Tuscola William Huber 
Urbona Edward W. Halloran Joseph Landiq 
Virginia Robert C. Rist 
Wapello Jamei M. Greeno Leo V. Greene Thomas E. Greene Vincent O. Greene 
Woukegon 
Eiskinc C. Edwards 
Edward F. Foley 
John R. Gostisha 
Arnold A. Maes 
Raymond J. Rcardon 
Edward Reaumc 
West Chicago GcorRo J. Foxen 
J. Warren Schwantes John D, FitzRerald 
Western Springs Harold E. McKee 
West Frankfort Leonard J. Dunn 
West McHenry Daniel A. Justen 
Wheaton Charle; E. Case 
WihneHe Thoma* R. Blohm Thomas J. DitchHeld Ira W. Hurley GeorRC M. Menard Norman H. Ranstead William J. Steele James D. Wilson 
Wilmington 
Alfred A. ARamy John R. ARamy 
Winnetka 
William £ . Brus^ Laurens Cook James B. O'Shaughnessy Dennis J. Scully 
Wood Birer Michael M. Kinney 
Woodstock Paul D. McConnell 
Indiana 
Albion Harold R. Seymouio 
Anderson 
Charles L. ArminRton John S. Griffith David B. KioR Thomas F. Lavelle PhiUp B. O'Neill Thomas A. Rose Byron B. Shore Philin F. Welsh 
Angola Paul F. Eblo 
Botesville 
Carl Hillenbrand 
Wm. A. Hillenbrand 
Bedford 
Louis C. Heitger 
Rob't. H. Heitger 

Geo. L. Wallnef 
Marshall S. Wallner 

Beech Grove John J. Van Benton 
BickneU Chas. B. Ruble 
Bremen Verne E. Dietrich 

Bristol Albert E. Van Namce 
Brook Ra>-mond C. Bower 
Columbia City Virgilius A. Pliillips 
Columbus Robert J. Fushelberger 
Connersville Peter V. Mandni 
Crowfordsvile 

Karl J. Miller 
Thomas M. Murphy 
Crown Point 

Ambrose McGinnis 
Bcnj. Schwartz 
Dana Robert W. Benton 
Decatur Richard G. DeininRcr 
Delphi John H. HamlinR 
Dyer Norbert C. Schaller 
East Chicago 

James X. Bell 
Paul S. Benante 
Frank R. Callahan 
Chas. J. Esola 
Elkhart Clyde G. Atchison Willard H. Chester Wm. D. Dalton Bernard V. Murdock William R. Saw>-ers John S. Tuckev Leon Woodford 
Evansville 

John F. Clemens 
John F. Davis Richard C Elpers 
Georso P. Heil 
Foit Woya* Paul M. Apu Frank E. Corfaett WilUam D. Curtin GeorRC D . FitzReiald Walter V. Gildea Edward W. Hoch Thomas J. Kinff Leo .1. Lynn Francis M. Metrailer Hair; ] . Murphy Gerald F. Putnam John L. Reusi Ralph Shimer David Skor/ 
Fowler 
Thomas D . McGuire James N. Rainier 
Gonrett Jerome F. Heinlen 
Gory 
John .T. Bosak John C. Boyle Jamei £. Cassidy. Jr. rrancis P. Fiansit^ Harry GeoheRan Thomas J. Griffin William H. Hake Douglas F. Haley, Jr. Arthur S. Laszla Ray A. Loyce Bernard F. Reilly Gerald E. Rhodes Michael P. Shanahan David P. Stanton Walter E. Stanton Peter J. Stefansdk 
Goshen Phih'p R. Sheridan 
Granger Donald D. Coleman 
Hammond 
^fartin G. Brown Robert E. LivinRston Walter C. Troy 
J. Bn-an Walter! 
Honna Howard C. Davis 
Hartford City James R. EmshwiUer 
ICghland 
Edward L. AhlerinR Thaddeus D. Havran Walter H. MulHur 
Hobart Oscar E. Ruzek 
Huntington Jos. B. Dillon 
Indianapolis 
John H. Blackwell Stanley C. Boyle Leon Brezinski John F. CaiT Francis E. Cislak John W. Courtney Francis J. Curran ^iicllaeI Fansler Carl C. Feske Joseph D . Griffin Frank J. HabiR. Jr. Thomas Haitnett Bernard F. Hartz Richard J. Hennesy Joseph M. Hughes Ralph G. Ittenlwch EttRene J. Kelley Giles A. Kelley Vefanar K. Khiiber Francis L. Layden AuRust J. LcRcay Robert D . Malaraey Robert J. McGill 

John P. McNaaaia HaioM E. teSkt Nicholas F. Ilolaar Frank J. Mooa John H. Mocxaa Robert G. Newtwld Joseph H. Niehaus, Jr. Ueiritt M. Otto Francis S. Pittnun Charles C. Riley Harvey P. Rockwell. Jr. Arthur C. Shea Lawrence E. Sima P^ul.L. SkeDer Geone A. Smith. Jr. Geone A. Smith. Sr. Charles M. Sailh Joseph A. Thie Leo F. Welch, Sr. 
Richard K. Zinuaeriy 
Eswiuno Jas. M. Wan 
fiagiiord His* Leo F. Buckler 
Knigiilstoiiji Robert C. Rnua 
Maurica F. Carey 
Frank McCarty Louis J. Waxner 
LoKiysU^ 

James J. Clark Thos. J. Keatins, Jr. Robt. J. MoUnaa 
Maorice A. Neville 
lAk»vin* Francis J. Breen 
loPort* 

P^ul J. Roy W. Fafaner Robert E. Quinn Aloysns Rumely Robert B. Runielr John R. Sheriff Arthur G. Taylor 
Lawrane* Pat H^and 
lAwrancabnxg 
Paul J. Ifarteisteck Robert P. O'Shaughnessy 
Charles E. Batden 
Koganspotl Paul N. Bott Thomai F. Hiischauer Edward J. Haby Charles J. Medbnd Richard A. Molique 
Wm. W. Herts 
Edw. G. Hui^er 
Marion 

James W. Cocbett 
Wm. P. I.aher Lyie J. Latendnsse 
IGcUgan Gty 
John P. Doaodlr Laurence J. Fitzsinions William J. Gonnan John A. Kdler. Jr. Verno* H. Morse Roswdl P. OduB 
PhiCp W. Ott Joseph E. Qnartudi 
Umn E. <Mn 
MUtOD J. Bock Gerald C. 1 Godfacr F. ._._ Ridard P. Cllfu Hermaa Cohea Chas. Dms John E. DeUom Ruhard C. DOtz Charles it. tarn Kobett J. "-^^11,1 P*al B. FnA J^raon J. Fned 3«les R. Gend Thomas F. UnwEa* Gerald M. Havifeaa I*ih'B C. Hcs ^ ^ Harold W Hoi*™™ H™*( A. Harwich 
R^tynioQd J. !-•*» K- U. UebmU D»rel K. Moon ^"^'^A. Roieatcia Carl M. ScUBol Earl D . Schallial I-eo Van TiBiair I^Koy J. WiescUnai 
Mimtpriuc John D. KaOa 
NnncM Henry G. KraS 
Hnp|l||IH> 
J<*o G. Templetoa 
Juhan R. Walters 
Nmr Albasy Jos. W. WaEua 
NawCodM* J<An H. Mmvkt 
Roe S. Tapiiui 
NawCaO* Fdhc R. Tniaor 
OMMla Stanley I. IfiKDoff 
Pgfiicfcibuii| 
Williaa O. Miller 
Pant 
Robert L. Baer George R. Laadipnve 
Pina^nilag* John H. Fieica 
Claade D . Caisoa 
Peaayvill* 
Warner A. Keisiiiff 
Edward J. Hoeter 
Wm. H. Kdley, Jr. Heary L* MiMifdl ^tiickP. Qiniaer Orea C. Stam David M. Ttodikod 
John F. Joka F. Shtcr 

Rolling Praxxie P. S. Peterson Bushville Arthur T. Kirk  Ro>-al T. Mastain .Arthur L. May Ralph B. Mazar Tlmm R. McCarty Walter J. Mclntyie Keeran F. ifcKenny Dan McNamara John H. McNamara Hush J. McNamey GeorRc R. McNeile  WaUcerton Elden P. Sh'ck William G. Smith Warso w Leonard D. Bodkin John A. Chrismac  Dorenpoit Ennlo B. Arboit Frederick £. Flymi Gilbert F. McCuUouKh Joseph V. MacDoDald Deniso n Robert K. BianDon  Oneida Wayne E. Thurm Ottumwa WiUiam R. GilRer William R. Robinson  Wchita Albert J. Gebert Emmett A. Hassett, Jr. George A. Schwaiz M^Tilson Michael N . Schwarz  
Shelbyville John £ . Z^ftus South Bend Richard J. Anton William 0 . A>Tes Vernon O. Bachtel i^urice Bailie Wm. R. Baker Marcellus F. Ball Charles L. Baumt^artner E. W. Beahni Leo S. Berncr Charles M. Bo>'nton Norman Brasseur WiUard F. Brien John A. Buczkou-slu Theodore J. Bucz>-nski Frederick W. Buechner Herman D. Ca1dv%-ell Ralph J. Caletri Wilbur £. Campbell Charles W. Ca\-anauRh William J. Cerney John W. Cissne Leo L. Cook Morris B. Cooper Robert D. Cox  James J. McNeile Edward M. Meredith Clement Midnski David O. Miller Thomas E. Mills D. S. Moran Louis C. Nemeth Peter F Nemeth William^ R. Nicholson Melchoir S­ Niemer John ^V, Nicmiec Sebastian J. Nowcld Donald J. O'Neill Richard J. O'Neill Gerald C. Orosz Kaii A. Paulisscn Joseph T. PawlowsK James H, Pa>-ton Wlliam T. Peck Arthur P. Perlcy ^r. L. Pettit John M. Pilarski Albert A. Plotkin Nfarcel A. Polz Clifford J. Potts Geortre D. Powers Theodore E. Prekowi tz •VVilliam A. Prekowitz Gino L. Pucci ifyron D. PuterbauKh Medard F. Rafalske  Washington Leo A. Klier Whiting Vincent P. Cavanaugh James F. McFadden David J. Paskwietz John F. Riordan Henry B. Snyder Winomac Henry G. Grabner Wolcottvill e Donald G. Jordan fowo Alton Everett Kuhl  De s Moine s Tohn B. Camer John B. Corcoian John F. Hynes Waiiam J. Hynes James C. Kessell Harold P. Klein Henry Kuhle.. Jr. John V. McCarthy Daniel L. Murphy Harry W. O'Boyle Dubuqae Robert M. Czizek John L. Duffy Wallace L. Fromhart Walter E. Klauer EdH-ard J. lalley Jos. A. Meusef. Jr. William B. Meuser John J. Nelson Patrick J. Nelson John J. Schmid Henry J. TrenUe Edmund C. Tschudi Clarence A. Zwack  Sioux City Robert G. Brown Edw. J. Schmitt Edward F. Simonich Stat e Cente r R<4iert £. Liston West Point Walter S. Pohlmej-er Kansas Arkansas City John G. Fry Atchison Martin J. Petcra  Kentucky Anchorag e William C. Moorhead Ashland John P. Brady Bordstow n John S. McGinnis Covington Gabriel Davezac Fort Thoma s Jerome £. Afadden Greenville James F. Mulligan John L. KfuUiKan  
Ronald Cox ' Edward J. Cronin John B. Crou*e John F. Crowley Robert J. Curtin David W. Dalr>-mple Warren A. Deahl Henry M. DeVoss T^uis G. Dhoore Jrssc C. Dickey Roger DiGioja Michael A. Donahue Russel H. Downey Douglas h. £by Domi G. Ehrich George Af. Elmore Richard E. Fabrycki Robert C. Fankboner Georse Parage Paul R. Farmer Jos. L. Feinsold Samuel FeiwcU Bernard M. Finnigan Gerald M. Fisher L. J. Fitzi^erald KGchael £. Flemini; Leo J. Fomenko Orville R. Foster Edwin FredericksoQ Karl F. Fromuth Carl D. Fulnecky R. Frederick Glueckert Geonte T. Gmitter Harold L. Goebel Frank H. Goetz T. G. Goiaczewski James S. Gorrell Alvis E.Granger Robert S. Grear Arthur G. Haas Thomas H. Hacker Chas. E. Haney Melvin D. Harhaugh Vermont C. Harter Ralph &[. Hass Henry G. Hawblitzel Kenneth I. Heck Jos. J. Hemphling Wm. G. Hintz Joseph A. Ho^ ^ Aloynus W. Hosinski John J. Jaworsld Floyd O. Jellison iWoId L. Jenninf^s Clayton E. Jodon James J. Jordon Robert J. Kelly John F. Kemer John K. Kervcr Byron C. Kirby Frandi L. Kopinsld Kenneth L. Kreps Geo. L. Kropff Joseph F. Kubiak Ridiard P. Kuehn Earl H. Kuhny David S. Landis Cari E. Laiv^on John W. Lawrence Dewey C. layton Charies £. Lentz Morris A. Lcrman Clyde Lod e Edmund J. Luther Grover J. Malone  John F. Rcbacfc \^ctor R. Reback Earl E. Reeder Ra>-mond G. Reuland Harry A. Richwine John J. Rieder Neil V. Robertson Bernard J. Roethele Kermit A. Rousseve Tos. P. RuDpc Louis P- Sabo Geo. ^V. Sands Arthur P. Scheer Gcoree V. Schraitt Joseph D. Schmitt Llovd B. Schroff Paul J. Schwertley Francis Af. Sellers ^ferle L. Settles Robert L. Simpson Vernon J. Slack Edward B. Smith Benjamin J. SouUi Joseph B. Strebinser Edw. J. Summers Walter A. Sweeney Sylvester A. TabersK Toseoh E. Talbot Edw. F. Thoman Carl A. Triopel Joseph M. Trudeau Steven J. Tsalikis Gilbert E. Uhl Jerome Voeel Frauds T. Vurpillat Francis J. Vurpillat, Jr. Wniard F. Wacner H. Timothy "Waite, Jr. ^Wlford V. Walz Karl R. Weii^nd Richard E. ^Vhite Stanley J. White Feliks L. Wiatrowski Charles A. \Viniams Roy A. Wordan John Worden Wlh'am A. Wukowts Jack S. Youn? Thaddeus P. Zackek Granville P. Ziegler Abraham Zosj SuUivon John H. Barbazette Terre Haute Henry L. Adam James J. Fasan Union City Robert M. Worth Valparaiso Chas. W. Jones Vincenne s Richard D. Green  Anamoso Charles J. Cash, Jr. Arlington Clarence W. Wilhclmi Aimstrong Charles F. Fitzgibbons Atlontic Paul M. Vaq Ackeren BeUeTu e Paul E. Kcmpter, Jr. Bevingto n Daniel C. Roach Britt William S. Spani;ler Cascad e Robt. D. Lane Cedar Falls Phidell T. Osborn Ceda r Bopid s EuRene W. Hauser William L. Wolter Charles City Norbert T. Mizeiski Cheroke e Frank Fitch Clinton Walter J. Becker Thomas W. Oakes Council Blulb Ed. McDomiell Robert E. Tinley Cresten Francis M. DauKfaton  Eagle GroTe Maurice £. Noonan Qdora Carl J. DeBaggio Fonda Edi\*ard L. Carey Fort Dodge Maurice J. Breen Denis E. Lcary Robert D. MulhoUand Hampton Robt. L. Saley Hillsboro Charles M. Holmes Humboldt John L. Campbell Ida Grore J. Emmett Murphy John E. White Iowa City Edu-ard N. Anderson Tames E. HoKan Robt. L. Jackson Joseph W. Kinvan Jeisup. Joseph P. Holbach lannng Rober: A. Nachtwey Mason Gity Mervin F. Bajjan Lester F. Davey Hiram H. Hunt Dennis E. Lannon Robert P. Winter Mononci Kenneth W. Krippena Muscatine John W. Roach New Hampton Timothy C Donovan William J. Kennedy Walter J. McAIoon  Chonut e James D. Nolan CoHeyvill e Louis C. Brown John T. Quigley Grea t Ben d Robert J. Filler Kansas City Thomas V. Holland Theo. S. Lyons Joseph B. Reedy Kensington Dand L. Clifton Sngman Edward F. McKenna Lawrence Emil L. Telfel Manhatton Albert C. Kairis Newton Donald B. Guy Norton Joseph D. Kennedy Parsons Donald J. Seifert Pittsburg Frank V. Grimaldi Edward T. McNaHy Solomon Timothy V. Harrington Topeka Richard J. Kane Thomas F. Stevens Ulysses Danid C Sullivan Wodswozth Wm. G. Hartnett Wojceeney  Hazard Jamej AL ChrisoverRii Hopldnsvill e WiUiam R. Wicks. Jr. Lexingto n John A. Baker John J. AfcClurf! Louisvill e Pierre V. AuRcrmcier Francis G. Aubrey Clarence C. Brumleve Edu-ard £. Buchart, Jr. Robert T. Burke, Jr. John B. Campbell. Jr. M. £ . Clements Columbus Conboy Henr)' R. Dempf Frank Fchr Alaurice A. Feldman G. A. Gerst Marion J. HefTernan Ralph R­ Kaiser Martin J. Kirwan. Jr. Adrian D. Neal Robert A. Nolan Herman J. Ohli^schlaRcr Thos. E. Osbourn Emil J. Peter Bernard I. Popham John B. Ratterman, Jr. Otto A. Rolhert John P. Ryan Bernard J. Schoo Leo J. Schultheis Melvyn P. Tomber Martin Robert £. Dermont Melber GeorRB R. Wurth Newport Joseph F. Ackerman Frank Hassett Paducah Henry R. Anderson, Jr. Louis L. Anderson Emmet D. Hannon Julian S. Nichol Thomas J. Young Pikeville William C. Hambley SLFauI  
Paul R. Lenahan  Eugene  F. McEniry  Raymond J.  Sullivan  Clands B.  Mulleague  G. Miller  Mallett  

Springfield Chas. E. &(onti;omerr 
Louisiana 
Alexandria John M. Barret; 
Charles W. Crockett 
Philip A. Jacobs 
Baton Rouge William G. Hockberser 
William L. Wolf, Jr. 
Elm Grove William A. Caplis 
Hammond 

Joseph Blache 
John W. Bradler 
Lafayette 

Kermit R. Escudier 
Bernard A. Lani; 
New Orleans 

Joseph D. Beach 
James S. Borea 
Edward B. Burke 
Patrick E. Burke 
Cari S. Coca 
Leo T. Happcl 
Clarence A. Imboden 
Karl A. Kaschew-ski 
Sidney G. Reed 
John A. Rilet 
Francis D. Rolwini; 
Andrew S. Romano 
Georse J. Schott 
H. Charles Thomas 
Shreveport Frederick E. Carmody 
James £. Carmody 
Michael Carmody 
James G. Cowles 
Henry T. Horka 
Rob er: A. Roy 
Vinton William H. Bradshaw 
Moine 
Bar Harbor James M. Gower 
Brunswidc GeorRi D. Shay 
HoUoweU 

J. Joseph Greeley 
Lewiston John H. BcRert 
Madison Dominic E. Otielette 
Mllinocket Jess F. DeLois 
GeorRC R. Wentworth 
South Portland John J. Wilkinson 
Westbrook Leo J. Cormier 
Maryland 
Aanapolia 

Gerald J. Flynn 
Edgar E. Miller 
Baltimore David Barry, Jr. 
Rober: E. Barry 
William R. Blewett 
Robert J. Byrne 
Ramon DeNardo 
Joseph J. Dockman 
David A. Fields 
Wm. F. Greavy, Jr. 
Franklyn C. Hochrciter 
William E. Hopkins 
John B. Imboden 
Philip L. Konop 
G. James Kukl, Jr. 
Felix .J. Melody 
Francis J. Murphy. IH 
Francis A. O'Connell 
Hy[;inul A. Peciuli] 
Jamel M. SchafFer 
Bethesda Alban A. Lej-el 
Alfred J. Loda 
Afartin K. Madden 
Brentwood John S. White 
Chevy Chase Arthur J. Bergman Robt. J. Dannemiller 
Emmitsburcf Jamet L. Rizer 
Forest Hill ^fartin F. Kennedy 
Frederick John W. Lcbhen Ralph F. Wachter John R. Zerbst 
Hyattsville Philip J. Maloney 
Middle Biver Bernard F. Peterson 
Phoenix Edu-ard A, Donohue, Jr. 
Biderwood John E. Conley 
Sandy Spring Russell W. Collins 
Silver Spring John T. Baczenas, Jr. 
John J. Brown 
Francis L. Liffhtfoot 
Wilbur W. MoeschI 
Tokoma Park Harry E. Buckley Thomas W. Coman 
Mass, 
Adams Egbert L. Curtin 
Andover WiUiam J. KeUy 
Arlington Hush A. Mallon, Jr. Geor!!S E. Tobin 
Attleboro Jamel K. Nerney 
Avon Edmund J. Radszuk 
Beverly Richard E. Alt 

Boston John S. Burgess 
William A. Fish 
William P. Higsins 
Jamei C. Roy 
John J. Shea, Jr. 
Brighton George F. Fitzpatrick 
Austin J. Holland 
Edward S. Thayer 
Brockton 

James W. Blunt James H. Fitzgerald 
Brookline Richard J. Baker 
Cambridge Royal P. Allaire 
Diogenes J. Angelakos 
Thomas H. Atkinson 
Charles H. Bartlett, Jr. 
Ralph H. Caston 
Adani M. Draycr 
Bernard T. Duffy 
William V. Ellis, H 
Thomal J. Murphy 
Arthur W. PhilUps 
Chestnut I£U Harry M. Doyle 
Clinton Patrick J. Hastings 
Dedham Orlando "M, Scafati 
Dorchester Jerry Cowhig 
John J. O'Connor 
Francis H. Reilly 
Harry J. Rockett, J. 
John Yonaker 
East I^ton Charles M. Galllagher 
East Taunton Jas. P. Coyle 
Everett Frank J. Foley 
Fall Biver 

John F. Bums 
John J. Desmond 
Fitchburg 

John F. Fogarty 
Edward J. Welch 
Foxboro John J. Ahem 
Framington Charles C. Brovelli Peter E. Merloni 

Gloucester Archibald A. MacLeod, Jr. 
Great Barrington John T. Burton 
Greenfield Joseph A. Maleno 
Holyoke Charles A. Garvey 
Henry M. Padden 
Louis A. Sefranka 
John F. Sullivan, Jr. 
lamoica Plain John P. Hickey 
' LowTMie* 
Albert A. Mubcany John C. Pinas 
James F. Seccaiccdo 
Frank J. Kelly 
Lexington John' E. Kelly, Jr. 
Low*n Frands T. Ciawford 
Gerald J. Crowley 
John F. Mann 
John V. McMsmmon 
Walter F. Sheahaa 
Edward .1. Tally 
Lynn Daniel^ F. Duggan 
Frederidc L. Eisfnmann 
Richard W. McCarty 
George F. Reynolds 
Robert A. Tewksbury 
BiMiioid Daniel A. Huntoon 
John R. Kelley 
Jamel J. Nolan 
MeboM Charles A. Tobin 
leUord 
- Philip Cenedella, Jr. 
lUchard B. Gilfoyl* 
William P. Quirk 
Harry J. Rockett, Jr. 
Mtmson 
James M. Duggan 
Francis F. Seeney 
Nciick Robert F. P^lladina 
Naedhom 
Edward J. Baker Arthur B. Cotmors Glenn M. Hatch 
New Bedford William S. Howland 
Newton Canter Jay R. Masenicb 
Newton Frands J. Meeban 
Newtonville Vincent A. Do ^ 
Northompton Joseph G. Cotmer 
Hubert T. Crana 
Harry D. Gafney, Jr. 
Nerthboro Edmund F. Goldsmith 
North EastoB John D. Sullivan 
North Quincy Edward R. Gray 
North Weymouth Edward P. Culleii 
North Wilbcoham Thomas C. Po%vers 
PitHfield Joseph P. Limont 
John J. Miller. Jr. 
George J. Nesbit 
Robert J. Nesbi: 
Qmncy Patrick F. McFariand 
BasbfoiT 

Edmni L. Calnt John A. Reair -: !-
Kameth U . Bcowa 
Wayne V. Millner 
SUOmr 

Sixnmnd A. WoolowsU 
Senacvill* Joseph L. Desmond 
Chas. Masmze ^ 
Jamey H. Maftnire 
Sooth 1 WOliani B: Stapleton 
Sonthhridg* Harold F. McGnth 
SoBMlvill* William T. White 
South WeyBioii& Wil&td R. SaviH Richard G. Sdmdder 
Spoagfield Jimei ] . Coffey 
Kieran L. Dmm. Jr. 
Tho9. F. Dnns 
Geo. H. Glynn 
John J. Granfidd 
Robert F. Hallria 
Midiael G. Kane 
.1. Francis Murphy 
James P. O'Connor 
Thomas G. Rogan 
Raymond J. Shea 
Vernon A. Tettanlt 
TumaraFcdla Frands M. Casey 
WotthoBI John J. Nyikos 
Wulertowii Bernard E. Megm 
WellMley John W. Egan Franklin H. Stuart 
WMiboco Henry E. Rally 
WMtfield Timothy KJGncher 
Joseph G. Jadtym 
WMtNowtem Thomas C. Bamett 
West Beixbnxy Harry J. Keefe 
Weat Somatvin* Antttonr J. Gentile 
Whilinafilla 
Frederick J. Siepietowski 
WinchaHQOo Joseph D. Doyk 
¥nndaater 
John S. Hicok Charles L. Schwartz, Jr. 
W^bmB Geoege L. Costdlo 
Woealar 

Corndins E. Geaiy, Jr. 
EdmnlJ. Bniia; Jr> 
^teiili W> GtoCtv 
Chai. F. Ifnnitne, Jr. 
Kobt. J. Uomaktm 
MIcWgoa 
Kameth E. Gcmod 
JUlM Edmrd K. Goaiia 
Ivan J. LeBhac " 
OrnOe lined 
FUSp L. Kckanii 
J. Anstia Sobaafc 
Oaode R. Yockey 
Ann Axbat George M. Bab> 
Wniiam J. DinMn 
Gene W. Dodtwntfc 
Bernard F. hotw 
Frands A. Saatm 
BaHteCrMk 
John M. AIleB 
J. Edward Bama Hemy C. Bbd Robert F. Vtomtim WilEam M. Dqpui John H. Ketiigaa Martin L. Weideana 
Bay dy 
Thomas J. CaiToa • Frands L. KoppdlKtiier 
Banton Hiiiiuoi WiHiam P. KoIuBoa ' 
Howard J. .Schmitt 
^itmiiMfhwH Caison E. Daltoa-
Frands J. McGiants-' 
Robert B. Thoapam 
Koofafieldffib Bernard F. Fknirdl 
BudunuBi ­
Rex E. Lamb 
Alfred B. White 
CarroU J. Wiban 
CoMopolia Cliarics S. FitaiBoai James D. Lancaster 
CttlhlO Frands A. Drsrhampi 
CadorSpdags 
Donovan J. Ran 
Cadomlla 
Jacob W. Kiaoi 
Chauojtfmi John A.' Cain 
Coippawci OiMiBly George D. Haller 
CeMwotar John P. toBStSo 
Frank WoU Dnni 
Ralph J. IVaiah 
Robert J. Saiiaf 
Ficdericfc D. lAl 
Detroit 

Felix P. Abaldo 
Edu-ard L. Ackerman 
HuKh J. Armbrustcr 
James W. Armbnister 
James W. Armtasc 
Roy J. Barron 
Adalbert C. Baur, Jr. 
Joseph A. Beattic 
Carl Bittner 
John J. Blanke 
Joseph A. Blanke 
Arthur B. BoerinRcr 
Frank G. BOIRCT 
Ra>inond C. Brett 
TheodoK H. Bullard 
Russell F. Christc 
John L. Conroy 
Frauds A. Crowe 
Timothy J. Cruicc 
Edmund C. DeBaene 
Edw. G. DeGree 
Joseph H. Dimond 
John J. Dooley 
Charles E. Dorats 
John W. Dunlap 
Gerald A. Durrier 
iohn J. Dyer 
Russell G. Finn 
Edward F. Fisher 
John F. Fisher 
Paul E. Foley 
lUchard W, Fountain 
Henn- W. Gnibb 
Thomas J. Hammond 
Robert G. Henncs 
Leo iti. Hoffman 
Robert W. Jassoy 
Francis J. Jehle 
John H. Jones 
Edward P. Karnes 
John R. Ka\-anau(;h 
Emmett J- Kelly 
Henry S. Kopek 
AIo>'sius J. Koss 
John J. Krajniak 
Norbert T. Laskou-ski 
Johu P. LauRhna 
Chas. R, Lennane 
Robert R. LonRpre 
Robert F. Lutz 
Donald J. IklacDonell 
Edward N. Marcus 
Walter J. Matthes 
Albert D. McCarthy 
Wm. N. McLoui;hlin 
Vincent A. Meli 
John F. Michuta 
Henp' C Moritz 
William J. Murphy 
Gerard O- Naumann 
Robert L. Ncydon 
Edw. T. O'Neill 
Euqene J. O'Neil 
Robert E. Palenchar 
Harry A. Paul 
Robt. D. Powell 
Fandy F. Rashid 
Geoi^e L. Reardon 
William F. Reardon 
Georse K. Rebcrdy 
Carl B. Sprenijcr 
C. F. Stallkamp Paul W. Staub Joseph R. ThomburE John M. VanEtten Afartin F. Wider Frank H. Wilson 
Dowagiac 

Joseph G. Callahan 
Eagle Harbor 

John M. Foley 
E. Grand Roi^ds 
John J. McElwee 
Eait Lansing 

Thomas H. Kini; John J. Scales 
Jos. W. Stack 
Arnold L. Williams 
Edmore 

Carl A. Pettersch 
Erie 

Herbert F. Bess Edw<u^ F. Cousineau, Jr. 
Esconaba . 

Ellis T. Blomstrom Matt N. Smith 
Femdcde 

John M. HallberR Dona J. Pepin 
Flint 
Robert H. Cuthbcrtson Joseph M. Kclletxhan Herbert L. Nadcau Vincent D. R>-an Paul J. Schiappacasse Robert J. Sibilsk>­Robert E. Sweeny 
C. L. Tacckcns Joseph O. Weiss 
Flushing 
Georse J. McDermott 
Gladstone 
John B. McGiynn 
Gladwin 
John W. Schulz Joseph F. Schulz 
Grand Haven 
Paul F. Fortino 
Grand Rapids James C. Bockheim Charles C. BroRser Georse J. BroRRer John F. BroRRcr George M. Fitzpatrick Milton F. Fox Richard J, Gietzen Charles H. Guinon Charles V. HildinR Charles J. Hoffman Jas. W. Kelly Edwin E. Leach Gerald C. Ludwi.R Edward G. McDermott James E. ^^cDe^mott Harry L. Merdzinski Dennison D. Mohler James E. 0*Donohoc 
James E. Rich Samuel Jerome Roach George H. Shields James ^L Shields Henry M. Sullivan Francis J. Thrall John C. Treacy AVilliam B. Webster John W. Yount; Joseph B. Zwers 
Greenville 
LaVerne A. Hansen 
Grosse Isle 
Thos. H. VauRhn 
Grosse Pointe 
James A. Bordeaux John E. Dohert>­Mathias Gratzer Thomas J. Kauffman Edwin D. 0'Lear>' Donald L. Smith Anthony J. Tocco 
Grosse Pte. Farms 
Frank W. Donoi-an 
Grosse Pte. Park 
Russell J. Bcaupre John L. Ruppel Norman H. Van Sile 
C. Nfercellus Verbiest 
Grosse Pte. Woods 
Thomas C. Murphy 
Hamtramck 
John E. Senyczko 
Hancock 
Stephen D. Condon 
Hartford 
James N. Sulli\-an 
Highland Pork 
Francis E. Dart Edward J. Singelyn 
HoUand 
John F. Donnelly 
Houghton 
Dominic M. Vairo 
HubbeU 

Eusene W. Rheaume 
Iron Mountain 

Michael J. Khoury 
Iron Biver 

Georije V. Murphy 
Ironwood 

Gordon T. Bethunc James M. Jones John B. McKevitt 
Ishpeming 

Sal^'atorc D. Andriacchi 
Ithaca 

Robert L. Arnold 
Jackson 

Elmer J. Collins John H. Conlin David J. Daly Harold F. Hatch Cyril J. Hartman Robert L. Mayotte 
Kalamazoo 

Paul J. Is\oIt Joseph P. Reardon 
L'Anse 

John E. Brennan 
Lansing 

Paris N. Cou-art Kenneth E. Faiver Edgar. J. Hermes Maurice D. Kirby Russel A. Lawler Daniel A. Shiffer Ernest C. Timpani 
Manchester 

John B. Bauer Robert O. Way 
Monistique 

Robert B. Finch 
Maple Cit7 

James E. Dutmeis 
Marine City Joseph J. Collins 
Menominee 

John M. Schroedcr 
MerriU 

Roy J. Catizone 
Mohawk 

Paul J. Foley 
Monroe 

Clayton C. Golden Vernon J. Sn-ider 
ML Clemens 
Walter J. Dupiay Edward J. Nehel, Jr. Malcolm £. Trombley 
Muskegon 

Jerome E. Bordeaux Howard W. Hooper Michael B. AfonKoven Chester E. Smith 
Nashville 

Lester S. \fark 
Newaygo 

Oscar H. Hastens . 
New Baltimore 
Aloyaus G. Weimer 
NUes 
A. J. Abraham Robert C. Blackmun Edwin J. Donahue Tonney B. Doolinj^r Kenneth L. Geidemann John W. Jauch 
J. Allan Johnson GeorKe S. Keller John O. LaRoni Arthur L. Morley 
North Muskegon 
John B. Hooper 
Northville 
Geoure W. Kohs 
Norway 
Victor J. Wojdhovski 
Oxford 
Charles A. Brucker 
Paw Paw 
Robert J. Kroth 
Petoskey 
Michael H. CorKan 
Pontiac 
Claire R. GauUer 
Thomas E. Hoo\'er 
Francis D. Sloan • 
James J. Yates 
Port Huron 
John F. Allen 
Louis J. Dunn 
Harry S. Erd, Jr. 
Thomas C. Stringer 
Quinnesec 
Raymond A. Fancheri 
Rochester 
Walter T. DeBaene 
Rockland 
Harold J. Cleary 
Rogers City 
Karl L. V<^elheim 
Romeo 
£u!;ene M. Chamberlain 
Royal Oak 
Harry F. McLaughlin 
Oyde H. Schamel 
Saginaw 
Arthur V. Kerns Cyril B. Kerns Edward A. Kerns Francis Kowals John N. MerriU John P. Nickodemus Joseph A. Sabourin 
J. F. Vertacnik" 
St Clodr Shores 
Peter J. Platte 
St Jraeph 
Ellsworth B.Holden Charles E. SpanKenberR 
Saline 
Joseph F. Sinkule 
South Haven 
John H. Verdonk 
Standish 
Dennis J. O'Keefe 
Towas City 
Michael T. Co ^ 
Trorers* Gty 
Willard M. Ott Henry W. Rokm William B. Rowon' 

Wakefield 
Savino W. Cavendar Howard A. DouviUe 
West Branch 
Thomas L. AtHos 
West Dearborn 
Clarence H. Brown 
Wyandotte 
Albert L. Courtney^ Kenneth L. Montie John E. Probst 
Ypsilanti 

Benito £. Bninetti Ralph M. Cooney 
Minnesota 
Austin 

Philip F. McLaughlin 
Blackduck 
George A. Miller 
Calumet 

OliwT G. Mackley 
Chisholm 
.Arthur L. Bergeron 
Collegeville 
Joseph F. Bcnda 
Crookston 
Jos. H. Sylvestre 
Crosby 

James F. Sernett 
Puluth 

Charles J. Boyle John L. Boyle Theo. L. Decker James P. Keough 
M. E. Louisell 
A. P. IlIacDonald William P. Oakes Clement K. Quinn Tet A. Twomey Sylvester N. Wagner 
Ely 

Peter E. Aforoni 
Eveleth 

Dante W. Paciotti 
Fcnrmont 
Thomas G-Dougherty Thomas G. Lawler 
Fergus Falls 
Haavel A. Grinagcr 
Grand Rapids 
William E. Binet 
Ribbing 
William H. Curran John J. R)<in 
MoreeU 
Qarenoe D. Harris 
Marine on SL Ceroix 
Lindsey Blayney 
Manhall 
John L. Ford EmUe V. MoUe 
IGnneapoUs 
Edward F. Barrett Frederick B. Chute William H.CIeary Karl J. Connell Edward J. Cronin 
WiUiam J. Dea David W. Devins 
J. Alrin Dreilinx Gerald B. Fitzgerald Edward G. Gushurst Jas. W. Hayward Benjamin T. Howard Richard D. Hyde Bernard F. Jaeger Clarence G. Leimandt Donald J. MacDonald Lloyd H. Marengo Louis A. McCarthy Edward K. McNevin Robert J. Schulze Donald £. Strand Edmond E. Sylvestre Edward K. Thode Robert L. Vader Gordon E. Whiteman 
Jas. P. Wilcox GeorRe J. Williams 
Owatonna 
Clarence P. Kaplan 
Pierz 
Frank J. Schrauc 
Rochester 
John J. Manning James W. Pick Otto C. Stegmier, Jr. Richard W. Tarara John R. Tobin, Jr. Robert G. Waidron 
Royalton 
John N. Wollack 
St James 
Frederic E. Fowler 
S t Paul 
Richard G. Cahill John M. Derins Lowell J. Grady Robert J. Hauer John L. Lamprey Linus D. Maloney Richard H. McCormick Herbert G. NiUes, Jr. James J. O'Hara Raymond C. O'Malley Gilmore A. Salmon Joseph L. Shiely Vincent R. Shiely Frederick A. Steele Arthur K. Sulliran Justin G. Toomey 
Sleepy Eye 
John A. Guldan Cornelius A. Fowler 
Soudan 
Edirard A. Micklich 
Stillwater 
Herman C. R. Piper 
Tracy 
John J. O'Brien 
Winona 
Raymond R. Bambenek 
Worthington 
Vincent Hollaren 
Mississippi 
Corrollton 
George L. DeLoach 
Clarksdale 
Erwin J. Mooney 
Coltmibus 
Herbert J. Perry 
Crystal Springs 
Harry Ross. Jr. 
Greenville 
Arthur C. Davidson 
GuUport Dalton B. Sbourds 
Iack*on Francis X. Berr>' 
Tupelo 
J. Troy Bonner 
\nckabuig William M. Adams 
Yazoo City Samuel J. Nicholas 
Missouri 
Aifton Norvall M. Hunthausen 
Biicbtiee Harold S. Bowden 
Blue Springs Robert W. Lj-saght 
Cameron Robert M. Russell 
Charleston 
A. F. O'Rourke 
Clayton 
John P. Sullivan 
Joseph R. Yoch 
Fannington 
S. A. Lanzafame 
Independence 
John A. O^Brien 
Harold F. Quinlan 
JopUn 
Robert J. Bracckcl Ralph L. Nolan Bartholomew J. Ramsour 
Kansas City 
>harles T. Bombeck 
Iharles T.Bombeck, Jr. 
Henry A. Burdick 
Emmett V. Conklin.1; 
Kevin E. Curran 
Paul \I. DiGiox'anni 
Robert M. Dolan 
John M. Dugan 
G. J. Findlcy Harold F. Haynes James R. Hi^Rins Francis J. Kelly GeorRc C. Kopp John F. Kramer WiUiam V. McLeese Vernon H. Afonteil Gcorjtc B. Reinhardt, Jr. David I. Rielly. Jr. Otto A. Schmidt John T. Schmitz Jos. B. Shaui;;hnessy Thomas J. Tobin Beni. F. Tyler. Jr. Fred J. Weiss Herbert F. Ziegler, Jr. 
Kirkwood 
James L. Fitzpatrick Norman F. Mueller Thomas J. White 
Lexington 
Edward G. Seiter 
John A. Seiter 
Liberty Charles J. Schutty 
Moplewood James J. Yoch 
Meaco Lowell L. HaRan 
Moberly John F. Carmody 
Parlmlle Eldon E. Kordes 
Pine Lawn Robert G. Arends 
Poplar Melville E. Dark 
Biclunond EuRcne D . Cronk 
St. Joseph Joseph E. Corby 
St. Lc'iis 
Brendan P. Biggert Paul S. Brumby Fabian J. Burke George J. Convy. Jr. Jos. P. Costello Philip V. DauRherty Leo S. Donati Edward A. DesloRe Robert C. Dunn William H. Gricsedieck John J. Hoban Chas. A. Hover Leo W. Hushes James H. Kennedy Lindell M. Kinman John H. McCarthy Paul C. Martin David J. Massa John F. McNuIty Frank V. Murphy Robert E. Murphy Francis P. Nash Orlando J. Pisaturo Richard G. Reeves Philip A. Riley Austin R. Sharp George B. Stock William M. Sweeney Robert C. Tetens Peter P. ViWano John F. Weiler 
Slater Francis ^L O'Hearn 
Springfield Joseph W. Krcsock Louis W. Reps 
University City 
Ernest F. Haljerkern 
Charles H. Murphy 
Webster Groves Craig H. Hewett 
Montana 
Anaconda 
Thomas A. KeUy 
James F. McGuire 
James J. Nelson 
John W. Tobin 
Billings 
Joseph T. Allard 
Arthur F. Cline 
Charles E. O'Donnell 
Bonner Merton J. Reed 
Butte 
John T. Andrew Timothy E. Downey Justin M. KeUy John F. McCarthy John R. Monahan Jas. P. O'Donnell Hugh I. O'Keefc Vincent P. Slatt John L. Tokich 
Great Falls 
John J. Matthews 
Leonard D. Regan 
Hamilton 
R. A. O'Hara 
Havre Charles E. Slyngstad 
Helena 
Vincent H. Walsh Walter V. Yund 
Livingston 
Edwin J. Harvat Thomas R. Volberding 

Missoula ' Daniel J. Hagen 
Nebraska 
Auburn EuRene J. Ely 
Aurora 
Edwin J. Quinn 
Francis W. Wanek 
BotUe Creek John D. Prccce 
Beatrice James W. Wabh 
Cambridge Richard J. Trant, Jr. 
Croiton Gordon C. Gobel 
Grand Bapids Wm. P. Mullen 
Hastings Leo J. Gushing 
Hubbard Timothy M. Green 
Lincoln 
Karl i L Arndt Peter J. Monaghan William C. Otto 
Norfolk Francis J. Maas 
North Platte 
.John J. Hauler 
Urban S. Simon 
Ogallala Donald F. McGinley 
Omaha 
Gerald M. Barrett LawTence H. Brown Raymond T. Coffey Wilbur S. Eaton Francis E. Fergus Mark G. Hindelang Eugene P. Melady Edward J. Sanders Robert A. Slabaugh Allan A. Weisbecker 
Popillion Kenneth S. Kennedy 
Sidney McKinley J. Mcintosh 
Nevada 
Heno Thomas G. Horgan Joseph L. Sheeketski 
N. Homp. 
AaUand Robert G. Windheim 
Berlin Luther W. Buber 
Oaremont 
Ray E. Franklin Stephen B. Novak 
' Concord James R. Martin 
Dover John B. SulUvan 
Hanover Waller M. MatduU 
Manchester George L. Bastian, Jr. 
Ncadsua Adrian P. Francoeur 
Suneook John L. Tobin 
New Jersey 
Arlington 
John J. Dumpert James L. Fish Thomas F. Gorman 
Asbury Park William B. Bruno 
AUantie Gty 
Leo T. Clark Leo D. Keating 
Boyenn* 
Donald F.Dugan Gilbert L. Gilhooly Charles O. Kroncke. Jr. William R. Kfahon Joseph £. Mangelli Anthony D. Romeo 
Bemardsviil* 
Georage J. Blaine James J. Foley 
Bloomfield 
Howard G. Cavalero 
Edwin J. Fredell 
Bogota Russell E. Compft 
Camden 
John M. Barb Louis G. O'Brien George W. Zimmerman 
Comeya Punt Willard F. iVnzilatti 
Cedar Grove Bert E. Daniels 
CHiton 
John L. Connolly Raymond A. Kane Joseph R. Mather Hetbert J. Wehrlen 
Collingswoed 
Joseph G. Dalsey 
Convent Gerald W. Dunne Cranbmy Raymond J. Spathr 

unmnra Robert E. Bannon Lawrence ] . Latkin 
H. Gerard Sutter 
Dover 

GDbert R. focker 
DnBMdnt Gino L. Pucd 
DnmeQen. Joseph P. Gmltiiian 
Eccl Oinng* 

Gerald W. Hayes John F. Kellr f^^^r^** A. Landmesscr William N. McConnick Henry J. Ftendeixast Friedly A. Rous Joseph V. ScUDinfc 
Elmer T . WeUiel 
EostPateiaon 

John V. Abbott Walter J. Matus 
Edgewoler 

Luke Hindns James White 
Elisabeth 

Leo J. Blatz 
Leonard B. Craiic Flulip C. GaOettn John A. Hopkins 
Joseph N. Mananca 
Francis J. Momy Joseph A. Nulty 
Albert W. Stein Joseph J. Wade FhiUp M. Wade 
Thomas V. Wade Raymond F. Waters 
Ebaer Joseph H. Ragdia 
EMCXFOBB Edward Duffy, Jr. 
Evring Twpb Charles W. SchEeckert, Jr. 
Foiriown 

J. Harvey Dahr 
FortU* William F. Setzer 
F^oaUin Francis E. Bright 
CHenBodc 

George V. Branigan 
Roger W. Bteslin 
Hoddon HeighiB Emmett A. Rohyans 
Hosbtonck Oa. 

Frands A. Carroll 
Jolm W. Larson 
HQWUMOM 

WiUiam F. Brennan 
Edwanl I. Mathieu 
mghlstown Alphonsus J. Braun 
mud* 

AUred C. Mneller 
Hbbokea John J. WaDaoe 
Hehefcaa John P. Sexton 
loMT Gty 

Joseph J. Annstronx Peter Bcieiuey William A. Bnoa. Jr. Thomas M. Doba Walter J. Hanit Joseph M. McKeoa Walter J. McNaUr Robt. J. Meter Gerald W. Smtaa WilSam D. Soffivaa 
LombertvilU PhiUp J. Faltetty. Jr. 
J. Hudson Hananann 
Lon9 Brandi darkson S. Ksher 
MqpUwood 
GcoiKC R. Fe^T 
Arthur J. Lea Bjond 
Edw. Walron. Jr. 
Metuclmi Harold F. Bohnsack 
IfCdlandParic Joseph W. Minarick 
Mdntclair Jay B. Uartine Robert F. Sayia 
Morristown 
Ed. F. Broderick 
Lawrence A. Doyle 
Liborio F. Cifrese 
Gerald R. Griffin 
D . Joseph Terreni 
Mountainaidc 
Francis X. Banmert 
I^ul J. Harrington 
James V. Montis, Jr. 
Mbnntoin Lakes John F. Monis 
MnlKcaBU 'James R. Leonard 
Newodc 
Sabby D . AddonxziD Matthew J. Bolger AUred L. Brycz Ibrdy }. Bush IKamond M. Connnisa Salvatore A. Conunist Vincent J. Comniisn Robt. S. Ciinniiijiham Emilio F. DeLia George R. Feeler Jerome J. Fnelidi Eugene F. GiOiiian George F. Hewson. Thomas D. Kenney Edward S. Kirtiy Frank G. McCann Paul A. O'Connor John J. Ifopera Henry A. Petsyn ' Peter J. Repetti RusseB A. ROey William E. Schmidt Raymond W. Troy 
New Braiswid 
Thomas F. KenaeallT 
Francis J. Nadobki 
North AdiBSlon WiUiam F. Mmpfay John S. Ward 
Nailer 
A. M. Duncan Joseph A. Knans Panl C. Leiuhan 
OtMaad 
Arthur W. Vetvait 
OfQDQ# 
WiUiam^ F. Brown. Jr. Bernard J. Hf f Km LesBe C laadoB 
Packnack Lone 

Geo. L. Sullivan 
Palisade 

James W. Mtilhem 
Poaaoic 

John R. Blanda John F. Sullivan John P. White 
Poteison 

Joseph A. Abbott George L. Carey Anthony J. Conti Stephen P. Feiraro Richard A. Hincheliife Alfred T. Horman James P. Kehoe Frank A. Manzione James T. Mcehan Geori^ E. Murphy John J. Neubauer 
J. EdH-ard Phelan James F. Walsh 
Pennington 

Geo. E. Meredith 
Penns Grove 

Carl B. Ford Russell A. Kurtz 
Perth Amboy 

Gilbert P. Auinistine ICcfaael J. BaloK Anthony V. Ceres Anthony J. GiufTre Stanley E. Kokowicz John J. Reader Nicholas P. Romanlco Russell E. Torxell Albert G. Waters 
Phillipaburg 

Donald E. Mamon 
Plainiield 

Henry W. Clement Andrew L. McDonough Peter J. McDonough 
Princeton 

John E. Walsh 
Bahway 

Richard T. Connelly 
Bed Bank 

Lawrence A. Carton, Jr. Ftands M. McClain Animus McNeil GeorKe J. Nelson 
Bidgewood 

Cornelius A. Alt Edward M. Farley Edmund F. Fitzmaurice Thomas P. Ford John F. McNeU Thomas R. Puroell David E. Repetto 
Bocelle 

Joseph H. Ewin;; Neal H. EwinK John P. McDermott Bernard P. Wojick 
Runuon 

Francis J. Nary 
Buthertoid 

John H. Bright Charles C. RuiTer Walter E. RufTer 
Salem 

John J. Dunphy 
Sea Girt 

Robert A. Matthews 
Short Ifills 

Joseph £. Dufiey 
Somerville 
Donald L. Lusardi 
South Belmar 
Gerard J. Rothlein 
South Orange 
Robert P. Carter William £. Carter William P. Kelly Matthew V. Kicrnan 
Spring&eld 
C. F. SausxiIIe 
Strotford 
Charles J. Gallashcr 
Summit 
Ernest A. DeRosa Howard J. Gillispie Christopher R. Masterson 
Teaneck 
Charles B. HuRhes 
Tenofl; 
Paul A. Benitz Thomas P. Daly Simon A. O'Brien 
Trenton 
Santo L. Belli Alichael T. Bozzo Leslie A. Yaejicr 
Union City 
Robert Charles B0I2 John T. Cox William C. Reilly 
Upper Montdair 
Peler M. Belmont 
Robert J. McLeod 
Verona 
Robert J. McDonou[;b 
Vineland 
Harry .A. Reinhart 
Waldwick 
John J. O'Donncll 
Westfield 
John A. Gillespie 
Westmont 
John F. O'Hara 
West New York 
Anj^elo B. Amato 
West Orange 
Timothy C. Gillen 
William J. Small 
Wharton 
Hany Stevenson, Jr. 
Woodbridge 
Andrew E. O'Keefe Edw. L. Pfeiffcr 
N, Mexico 
Albuquerque Charles I. Coy 
Acapulco 
Rafael T. Aldudn Philip H. Dunleavy 
Carlsbad 
William A. Glasicr 
Gallup 

John R. Scanlon 
Las Vagas 

Thos. V. Truder 
Pecos 

Abdallah S. Adelo 
Boswell 

Geor?ic E. Jewett 
Santa Fe 

AUnd M. Ortiz 
Silver City 

Chaunde L. Snyder 
Tucumcori 

Georse J. Lins 
Watrous 

Wm. R. Tipton 
New York 
Albany 

Harold V. Canavan 
William J. CasarTa 
John E. Ciccolella 
Robert J. Grimes 
John S. Herridc 
L. F. Koran Donald J. Howard 
L. Frank Kelly Richard F. Leahey Leonard F. Xfayer John H. Penrose Andrew M. Pinckney 
Albion 

C. W. Crowley 
Alfred 

Norbert H. Schickel, Jr. 
Amityville 

T. John Folks, Jr. 
Amsterdam 

William J. Gilston 
Richard J. Samowski 
John J. Siscanaw 
Auburn 

Charles D. Bohrman 
Charles E. Geherin 
Kenneth J. Goff 
Edward L. Keating 
John P. Kiley 
Charles W. Lonu 
Walter T. Sullivan 
Joseph R. Vattcr 
Avon 

Samuel J. Prinzi 
Baldwin 

George J. Gru 
Lester J. Kennedy 
Batavia 

Edmund V. Afarshall Edmund M. O'Donnell David J. Schneider 
Bay Shore 

Timothy E. Benitz 
Bayside 

John T. KeUey 
Beacon 

Frauds P. Frascati 
Bedford 

Frauds M. Herbert, Jr. 
Bedford Village 
John E. Mullaiier, Jr. 
Robert S. MnlUneT 
BeUeHoiber 
John H. DetwiOcr Walter J. Douxlas Edward P. Genithty John F. Trmcey 
John D. Bow^ John R. Cunningham William L. Hogan Joseph M. Kane Regis C. McNamarx John L. Murphy 
S. H. Osbom William A. Page Frauds J.' Sullivan Richard E. Sullivan 
Blaadall 
John A. Warren 
Bolhror 
Norbert F. Moore 
Brewster 
William R. Polye 
Brocfcport 
Donald J. Corbett 
Bronx 
Robert F. Armstrong William A. Baum, Jr. Glen M. Caibeny John M. Dolan Francis M. Flynn Anthony J. Fraino William J. Garvey, Jr. Mark A. Lonergan Vincent V.Turiano .Alfred J. Weil 
Bronxrille 
John F. Baker Joseph P. Hartnett. Jr. Henry M. Kane Joseph A. Young 
BrooUyn 
John S. Anderson 
John T. Bartley 
Wilh'am N. Bartley 
George J. Boden 
D. T. Bonomolo WiUiam A. Brooks Thomas A. Burke George D. Byrne Edward J. Condon John C. Connor John. M. Coppinger Cornelius J. Crowley, Jr. Joseph P. Cummings, Jr. Howard C. Cusack Thomas F. Dalton William E. Daniels John M. Debitetto Wm. T. Doyle Alfred A. Duffy Francis G. Dunn Thomas J. Fermelly Robert £. Fitzsimmons Frank M. Galardy Gilbert G. Gallivan Joseph W. Gibbons Chas. A. Gorman William J. Hannan Austin G. Jones Chas. E. Judge Joseph F. Kearney Frank H. LaBome Donald. Laurie Arthur J. Lavery John J. Lively Joseph E. Loftus Ferdinand G. Long Henry J. Lucero Francis R. MacCauIey Joseph F. Maia William G. Matguet 
John A. Masterson Francis M. Mastrota Daniel £. McCarthy Philip R. McFariand Thomas J. McGee George E. Miles Thomas V. Bliles Jos. C. MoncD. Jr. Julius L. Nardone William F. Nanlone 
N. J. Nealis Wm. H. O'Brien Edmond J. O'Coiinor James J. O'Connor James T. O'Donndl 

John J. Reddy 
Robert J. Rick 
Edward G. Rosanelli 
James P. Ross 
Daniel F. Sallows, Jr. 
Leo F. Sdalani 
Dennis J. Shanahan 
Michael A. Siegler 
Eugene J. Smith 
Maurice N. Stiskin 
AUted A. Taylor 
Salvatore P. Trentacoste 
James J. Verde 
John M. Wallach 
Walter K. Waiburton 
James J. Ward 
George P. Wilson 
Buffalo 

- Norman 1. Anderson Lawrence A. Ausiios Joseph A. Battaglia Earl M. Brown Charles F. Daly James P. Dower (George £. Doyle, Jr. Milton J. Eisert Charles E. Ernst, Jr. John P. Fox, Jr. John J. Glanville George G. Haggerty William B. Lawless, Jr. Edward M. O'Connor John A. Perone George X. Saltarelli Michael M. Sheedy, Jr. Raymond C. Spencer 
Conajohorie 
W. Edgar Dougherty, Jr. 
Conandaigua 
James T. Gartland 
Gerald A. Smith 
Canton 

Paul E. Patten 
Carthage 
James H . McGuire 
Choumont 
William L. Torrey 
Cheektowaga 
Robert D. Fembach 
Churubusco 
James L. Gagnier 
Cohoes 

George G. Penrose 
College Point 
William A. Bawnert Vincent G. Laurita 
Coming 
Edward J. Carlton 
Martin J. Koebel 
John W. Murphy 
Comwall-cn-Hndson 
Raymond H. Bradford 
Cortland 
William F. Murphy 
Dongon Klls 
Edward E. Gbigliotti 
DnnUdc 
Philip M. Donovan Edward J. Hayes Leonard F. Swoyer 
East Aurora 
Robert F. Magee 
East Hodcaway 
Joseph C. Dillon Joeph B. Sbanley 
East Syracuse 
Robert M. Snyder 
Eboneser 
C. J. Rickard 
Eggertsville 
Robert E. Gardner 
Efanhurst 
John V. Leddy 
Elba 
Clyde C. Batchellor 
Elmhuzst 
Alvaro V. Lesmez John C. Moran John F. Zdanowicz 
Elmira 
William C. Kennedy Francis J. Shortsleeve 
Elmont 
Homer E. Strickler 
Eltinsville 
William E. Mooney 
Endicott 
Francis J. Donlon 
Far Bockaway 
Albert S. Pacetta 
< Fayetteville 
John J. Cashin 
Floral Park 
James A. Finneran, Jr. Daniel J. Guiney Frands M. Guiney John J. Guiney 
Flushing 
Joseph W. Bean Thomas W. Fallon Donald A. Nelmes Vincent J. Schneider Myles J. Walsh Edw. P. Ward 
Forest ISUs 
Raymond S. Disco Albert P. Kelly Thomas F. Mulligan Raymond H. Murray MtA E. Nevils Dave Powers James F. Shea 
Gabriels 
Wm. E. RUey 
Garden City 
William A. Nelson 
Geneva 
Wm. F. Fennell James H. Hart WiUiam T. KeUow Paul A. Mulcahy Bernard Putney 
Genoa 
Joseph E. Mosher 
Glens Falls 
John F. Burke Chas. A. Quinn 
Gloversville 
Harry A. Moss, Jr. 
Golden Bridge 
M. Clay Adams 
Goshen 
John W. Gleassey Chas. R. Riley 

Great Neck Frauds E. Messina IiGneola Ralph J. Lathrop Kenneth F. Beh Henry G. Leader 
Joseph B. Myron 

Walter T. Powers. Jr. George P. KruR JohaL.Bch' 
John P. Levins Kobert J. Beixen JoKiih G : lltketF. Norman LiUiff Robert P. CuUen Jnaa E. Kciwia Arthur G. Kirby Johnson City Monsey Francis R. Looibardo 

m. Edward F. O'Kane Adrian B. Lopez 
Allen H. Mahar Joseph P. McEvoy 
«* Leon F. Zabrislue Edwin B. Lopker 
Joseph L. Lopker Kenmore 
Mount Vernon Jos. J. Lordi 

Groton Nicholas P. Lukats 
Henry L. Bums Robert J. Allen John S. MacCauler James F. Clark F. J. Hanssel Anthony N. Consolazio Patrick J. MacDoDoiwh Gerald C. MacPeak John W. Jackson James V. Maher Hector MacNeil Paul J. Maholchic ace C. JSMKI New Gardens Wm. J. T. Marshall 
Hcmison J. Frank Martin 
George E. Geyer John B. Morgan John B. McAnultr 
Ward J. Rafferty John W. Lowell August P. PetriUo Omrago-
John J. McAvor Joseph A. Vassallo Vincent R. Sposato John E. McCarthr. Jr. Cbarles C. Stdtaaa F. 

Harold J. Wardell Charles McCauIey Frauds P. Tlnmiaaa iH-i Kngston James W. Wardell 
HostingB on Hudson J. C. McCoy Joka M. OdokKfc 
Robert J. Wardell 
Nicholas J, Amato James J. Mcf adden J«ae> H. X m
John J. Andres Oaaam Fadb QIMMM 
Henry J. Fisher John M. McGrath. Jr. Walter A. Kjim 
John C. Flanagan Wm. F. McGiath LeoF. SiasMB ,
Naponoch 

Hoverstrcpv James W. McHugli Ad n J. StoUnria 
Jerome W. Rayhurn Fraads E. MuUiKaa 
David T. MrLanj^lin Joedh P. TW a -EuKCne L. Malley Lackawanna 
James B. McLaughlin (in k J. Walbca .James E. Kenncy Newark Louis P. Michaud Bcnird W. Wdhid 
Hempstead Charles J. Novak Thomas J. MSnoffue Cbytoa C. Woodnf 
Albert Cowles George E. Mulligan Charles A. Cumiiker William C. Beechel. Jr. Robert H. Karl John F. Murphy • 
Charles I. Blomer Larchmont Charles F. Klefeker Frederick E.Neef John F. Britton Bodniwoy 
Edu-ard J. Flynn William P. Arnold Joseph A. Klefeker Thomas W. O'Brien JoKph p. RoRcn 
Cyrus L. Foote Frank X. Kosky Nicholas C. Marchioli Howard A. Ochs 
Charles J. AfetzKer vtutsa
Victor J. Vcrsara Robert L. Soper Jas. C. O'Connor, Jr.
Francis P. Sienko BodCTilto CiBli r 
Francds J. O'Kane C. F. Regan. Jr.
John J. SkeUy Newark Valley Edward B. O'Ndll Robert J. Ryan Tlwma J. Gatdr Harry C. Wrisht Litde Falls John D. Quinn Arthur S. OberiMfar Raymond P. Boyce Ralph J. Onofrio 

F. D| Van Allen Louis C. M. Reed WilCam F. 0%iea 
PeHunii Herkimer Robert P. Reilly Ji^in R. Gannon 
Paul A. ReiUy VA^nmtA J. Qnina. Jr. 
livingstone Monor Newburgh 
Joseph D. Repetti Robert L. Gannon Joseph D. Dineen William J. Carey 
Joseph F. Willis Edward E. Rhatigan Tlwnias B. Kenedy 
James J. Flanagan 
Edward p. Roney. Jr. Arthur D. PhUson James T. Griffin KgUand John H. Flanagan Michael A. SantulU John P. Wietboff Frank W. Lyod 
Locust Valley Edward J. Power Norbert F. Schwartz Edward J. Dovding, Jr. WnEam I. LyK& j ^ William M. Cappillino 
Cornelius J. Wade Ftands P. Shapiro Howard J. Snuth Leo A. Rees New Hyde Park 
Arthur W. Shaughnessy Anthony S. Vahio Highland Falls 
Frank J. Shaughnessy 

Long Beoch . Harold £. Heinemann Robt. D. Shea Pomi Ton 
Patrick J. Carroll Daniel F. Stevens BodfB 
Anthony L. Cella Thomas Sheen Wm. C. Quenan 
Fancis J. Mathc\« William F. Gillespie Geo. N. Shuster 
William M. Perry. Jr. August W. Sidler 
Newport Petmbiiig 
ISlton Edward P. Shanley Walter F. Sloan Edrnrd J. HyMS . 
Andrew H. Piseck Joseph G. Smalley Daniel J. Conha 
Joseph J. Welch W. Eugene Smith Long Island Walter W. Smith 
PiUsloni James F. Spellman 

Hollis John A. Jenney New Bochello JoMph J. Fanidl 
John J. Kane Charles A. Stenius John E. McCarthy 
Walter J. Brannan. Jr.
Herbert A. Becker Hcmy B. Olbricht John L. SuUivan John P. Cavanaugh S t AlboBa Thomas E. Pilgrim Thomas A. SuUivan 
Edmund V. Cliff, Jr. JUBBS W . Berdk ,. 
Anthony C. Sulewski PluUsoiii9 
Lydonvillo John E. Colville Albert N. Botkr 
Geofge G. Thompson Leo G. Facteau James J. Tormey Michael J. Tiemey Hoosick Falls WiUiam B. Dougherty Louis J. Od Ttttc 
Thomas J. Fitzharris, Jr. Gene J. Kennedy Robert A. Hulihan WiUiam M. Tobin 
William E. Fitzharris 
Fiorenzo V. Lopardo William H. Tourney PlMsantrin* SL 
Vincent J. Lipsio Thomas J. Trueman 
Lynbrook Alexander J. Lockwood Lawrence T. Grass, Jr. John L. Wocdea.~>. 
Edward A. Uniacke 

Walter R. Cotton Daniel J. Mahoney Charies C. Hogan 
Homell Leo J. Valker 
James A. Jones James D. McCann WabidB. Kirk 
George A. Vergara St G«ai9* 
Joseph R. Cullen Edward F. McLau.i;hlin John H. McGuire l>oaiini<^ J. Napolilano 
Frank C. Wachsmuth 

Robert C. D>ke George H. Paff WiUiam J. Mullins Albert S. Ripley John J. Hnrky 
John J. Walsh 

John C. Woelfle Harrison J. Pierce Frank Roberts, Jr.
Thomas J. Walsh WiUiam H. ScuUy WiUiam H. Waters, Jr. 

Huntington Gerald A. Sexton John F. Emer 
Molone Thomas P. Sheils Portlervis 
Steinert A. Gansauge V. L. Zimmermann, Jr. R. C. ntzgeiald 
James J. Murphy William P. Brown William J. Sheils, Jr. John T. McGrath Thomas O. Saader 
John J. R%*an Jos. J. Daif;ncault« Jr. 
Jesse N. Torres Donald J. Sehl Lucien J. Dai(;neault . New York VEOm Henry G. McKee PonghkMpaia SaogaifiM 
New York City Matthew S. Sukiennik 

Daniel F. Casndy Wniiam E. Cka A ^ nion John J. Antus Josetdi'E. Condon Richard E. Reratddi 
9 James B. Curtis . Malveme Richard K. Barrett IGagara Fcdla John J. Kuhn Jack P. Farr Noel F. Bartone Waiiam J. BeUinger Leonard F. BfcCambridge 
Peter A. Bee, Jr. 
Jos. F. CaUahan Robt. E. Daly Charles P. CNdD Ithaca William F. Murtha, Jr. Joseph P. Benziger 
Fred J. Boucher 
Paul A. DriscoU Joseph S. Reichert Qnemis 
Charles J. Farrell Momaroneck Arthur L. Bradley Joseph K. Rowe John J. Bracken Patrick J. Filley Frederick N. Davis SclieiKC'iMuy '
Patrick A. Bradley 
Daniel J. Brick 
Donald F. Connors 
William J. Schickel Benjamin M. Scherer Arthnr N. Becnr 
Joseph J. Brophy North Creek 
Thomas H. GolEas Walter W. Buckley John G. Ringlcr . Qaoena ViUag*' Donald J. Dnine. 

Monhasset Charles W. Call 
Jackson Heights James P. Gibbon 
Thomas F. Carey Edward F. Grtman, Jr. 
Harry G. Flanagan, Jr. George A. Kriitd 
Victor S. Carton North Tuirytown Leon J. Maguire WilEam B. Macker. 
Francis P. Galli .Allan J. Clark James F. Doyle John I. Medoa Lester C. Grady Mospeth James A. Clemens, Jr. 
Vincent J. Hoi^n Charles J. Colgan George M. Duquette BidnBoiid WU John F. Nace 
Felix G. Frank John J. Ennis"  L. 
Alexander S. Kovzclove Kenneth £. Cook Frederii^ D. Goosen Robert Watlen 
Gerald Lyons James T. Crowley Joseph A. Mannion 
Robert J. McCarthy Casimir J. Czaikowski North Tonnwonda htrick F. Murray 
Mossena Schuilenrato 
William M. McNally W. Lawrence Darrow John J. Canino 
Robert A. McVety Clayton F. Tyo Arthur G. Davis Joseph M. CocncT -; ­
Edward R. Neaher Arthur F. Dennehy Bivetdid* Thomas J. Claacr Gerard J. Rabbett Arthur F. Doerfler Norwich John T. Peten 
William F. Rabbett Medina Walter A. DonneUy John T. Dnnbvy 
John H. Heilker 

John H. Rudd Robert M. Sbck William F. Doyle, Jr. James H. Sheils Francis J. Dufficy SeeSa 
Ogdanbmrg BecbMtOT 
Daniel J. Sullivan Clinton H. Faille 
Donald j : KdKT James B. Treac>-Robert H. Farrington, Jr. Stanley A. Sargent Gerald J. Andres 

Merrick Ehno E. Miner. .
Gerard L. Finneian Bml F. Barker Robert E. Gelhaus Harry F. Fox, Jr. Oleott Ridard T. Bateman Jamaica William L. Krapf 
Louis J. Grosso Samnd C. Bonilleri Joseph A. Bittner John P. Guerin Ebaer H. Bnraham 
Robert L. Mulcahy Frederic Ryan 
James G. Brown Edward F. Hargan JoKph R. Cononn Joseph D. Donnino Joseph J. Haves Oleon Aalhonr J. Calkin 
dCddleport 

Philip C. Holzbencer Charles H. Johnson Geo. F. Fitzgerald Fkal F. De Rnlb Joseph J. Huber. Jr. William J. Mahar Frauds A. King RusseU J. JandoU Martin J. Do«>Eng 
• Aaron W. Mason Robert M. Monahan Henry J. Kluver John V. Smith Ficderick J. Erde WilEam I^ KdUo^ : 
61 
Sidney 
Joseph J. Knapp 
Silver Creek 
Samuel P. Privetera 
Snyder 
Arthur E. Haefncr 
James P. Sheedy 
South Ozone Park 
Wm. J. Lane 
GeorKe R- Mullcr 
Springfield 
Thomas A. McCabe 
Stanley 
lames F. Bern' 
Stolen Island 

Rudolph M. Gans William V. Shakespeare 
Stewart Manor 

Geonte H. Zcller 
Stillwater 

Andrew J. Gannon 
Suffem 

Thomas F. O'Brien 
Vincent E. Trainor 
Syosset 

James £. Armstrong; 
Thomas W. Downini? 
Syracuse 

Thomas P. Behan Edu-ard M. Broscoe William J. B\Tne Vincent D. Ca\'anaui;h Louis H. Follet Henry T. Hickey Laurence D. Johnson Henry T. Hickey Laurence D. Johnson Paul J. Johnson Paul W. KeUey, Jr. Fiands A. Lederman Francis E. McKecvcr Leo G. Paul John B. Putnam Alfred C. Scherer 
E. C. Schonlau James £. Sheehy Robert L. Sulliv'an Daniel C. Williams 
Troy 

Eueene P. Dolan 
William J. Fitzpatrick 
Robert S. Johnson 
Joseph A. Judi;e 
Francis C. ^fahar 
Tuckahoe 

William P. Clark Walter H. Johnson, Jr. Francis A. McAnaney Wra. Wenzel ^ Francis C. Winter 
Utica 

Herbert C. Daiker. Jr. Francis W. Donalty Frands R. McGinty Eduard A. Reagan Warren H. Sexton Francis J. Toomey 
ValhoUo 

Matthew J. BruccoU 
Vestal 

Thomas J. Burke 
Wotertown 

GeorKe H. Bums Joseph p. Bums Chailes V. Crimmlns 
Woterrille 

William J. Alulhall 
Watkins Glen John S. Pcttensill 
Waylond 
Harr)' F- Schubmehl 
West Chazy 
Vincent L. Jerry 
Westtield 
Bonald C. Tiedmann 
Westhampton Charles J. Shelanskey 
West Hempstead Nelson J. Vosel 
Westport Thomas Listz\\*an 
Whitehall 
Georse O. Belanser 
White Plains 
Martin G. Foley Edward F. Hojian John N. Maddock Bernard O. Marbach John C. Marbach Robert J. Marbach Edward A. Quimby \Villiam L. Whitely 
Williomsville James W. Burns Robert Meascr 
Windham 
Harold J. Hauser 
Woodside 
John J. Kearney John D. Kelly John p. McGuire 
Yonkers 
Leonard A. Cacciatore Rocco R. Cacciatore Anthony J. CamperIeni;o Norbcrt J- Collins James J. Deely James Af. D^^yer John R. Edwards Harrj* A. Florence Nfichael A. Forastiere 
C. Glynn Fraser John R. Gerrits Herbert J. Kenyon Francis E. KKidce Joseph A. Kicro John A. Sudol John F. Tomkowid Robt. W. Toner Wm. A. ^Valsh Wm. A. ^Valsh, Jr. 
N. Carolina 
AsheviUe 
John N. McCabc 
Brevard John E. DriscoU 
Chapel Hill 
William Eni;els 
Charlotte John E. ifacClements 
Gastonia Joseph S. Jacobs. Jr. 
Maxton Louis J. Essey 
Raleigh 
Burt J. Hall 
Tryon 
John E. Flynn 
Wilmington 

Robert W. Blake 
N.Dakota 
Arthur 

Charles T.Ross 
Dickinson 

Peter F. Lish 
Fargo 

Robert C. Nelson 
Grand Forks 

Thos. A. Toner 
Hettinger 

Chas. M. Dunn 
Linton 

Roily R. Hocue 
Ohio 
Akron 

Edu-ard G. Barcli James E. Coulter Andrew J. De\-any William B. Helmfcamp Charles M. Kelly Bernard W. Ley Clarence Wm. May Walter P. McCourt Ronald J. McEachen John W. Moir Charles B. O'Connor Murray Powers Glenn L. Smith Andrew J. Snyder Joseph J. Wozniak 
Alliance 

Charles J.O'Brien 
Ashtabula 

Joseph R. Garvey 
Jas. R. Rohl 
Louis W. Vettel 
Barberton 

William P. Bernard, Jr. James W. Genet Monta L. Holzworth Ladd M. Lukats Victor C. Weiijand 
Bedford 

Gcorsc J. Kozak 
Bellefontoine 

Anthony T. Bray 
Bellevue 

Paul M. CallaKhan 
' Berea Stanley J. Idzerda 
Brecksville 

Giant H. Madcay, Jr. 
Bridgeport 

Ralph H . Jorden Thos. J. Jorden. Jr. 
Canal Fulton 

William E. McFarland 
Canton 

Herbert £. Coleman Hugh B. Correll 
Frank T. Dannemiller Alfred G. Hockwalt John E. Hockwalt 
Albert E. Ser\'a 
Robert £. Shanahan William F. Unffashick Paul J. ViRnos, Jr. Charles A. Waechter John P. Waltz 
Celina 
James W. Myers Geo. F. Pulskamp 
Centerville 
Edu-ard K. Grimes 
Chagrin Falls 
Harold W. Ruppel Albert A. Sommer 
Chardon 
W. J. Fisher 
Chillicothe 
John P. Hess, Jr. Harold L. Kiauscr 
E. D. RiKney Thomas J. RiKney, Jr. Robert W. Robiiwtt Gerald P. SchUder Richard J. Schilder Francis J. Shay Willard C. Walters 
Cincinnati 
C. H. Brink Bernard N. Brockman, Jr. Frank I. Broeman John K. Games William J. Cassady. Jr. Bernard J. Chenal Robert E. Clark Laurens P. Cotter Edw. F. Donohoe Leo V. Dubois Ernest F. DuBrul John C. Fanner .-\uj;ust B. Fipp Thomas E. Hanifin John P. Hart Walter Heekin, Sr. Bernard J. HuKKcr Francis M. Loney 
H. D. Madden Harold D. Madden, Jr. William A. Madden John C. ^faIoney Joseph W. Maxwell Joseph A. Meyer Victor J. Reilinff Hoi%-ard J. Rohan Richard H. Shiels 
F. Seton Staley Frederick R. Sullivan Lawrence M. Walsh Robert L. WiUe 
Clereland 
Paul J. Abel Maurice F. Baddour Sara N. Case Jerome A. Coleman Ciril P. Entrup Joseph A. Fitzgerald John A. GallaKber Joseph J. Gavin John W. Gleason. Jr. Pasquale A. Guarino Elroy E. Habert John J. Hillenbrand Cecil J. Hobert 
C. Richard Jenney Edw. F. Kohl Anthony E. Lavelle Ward H. Leahy Edu-ard G. Marek Robert J. Mazanec Alexander W. McFarland Thomas A. McGcttrick Charles G. Morrison Ray M. Murphy Frank J. Nau^hton Daniel T. O'Brien Francis R. O'Brien John C. Obnemiu Edw. A. Orlikowski Rocco D. Perooe Philip J. FkcnderKast Lambert R. Reinhart John M. Rice Francis J. Rixd Paul A. Roberto Miles J. Ryan Frank J. Sdiiiack Thomas J. Sdiriner Peteir J. Sheehan John E. Soimlialter Joseph E. Sotak. Jr. Joseph L. Sweeney Robert G. Tisdiler Donald J. Vala John W. Vitorrn Chas. P. WoUnm 

CleTeland Heights 
James A. Byrne, Jr. Jos. L. Daley James R. Devitt William H. Doie John A. Kiener Thomas M. AfcLauf^hlin John F. Moriarty Clayton J. Toddy 
Coldwoter 

Theodore V. Oppcnheim 
Columbus 

Herman W. Bittner Arthur B. Bulterfield John J. Canty James A. Carroll James F. Craine Richard P. Dev-ine Samuel L. Dcvine Paul S. Douthitt 
J. Mitchell Dunn Donald M. Hamilton Arthur J. McMullen Robert T. Mumane John R. Murphy Chas. J. Schmidt James W. Shocknessy Alfred O. Varley 
Curtis 

Emery S. Toth 
Cuyahoga Falls 
Edward E. Potter Bernard J. Kraus 
Dayton 

Harry C. Baujan Peter B. Beemsterboer 
A. K. Clay Gabriel Davezac John ^f. Focke Thos. H. Ford Edward A. Huth Peter Kuntz, Jr. Frederick J. Lau.i;hna Frank J. O'Boyle Milton Paskin Robert J. Stone Francis J. Svoboda 
Defiance 

William £. Daoust 
Delphos 

Orville E. Ockuly 
Dillonyale 

Philip G. Dahar 
Dover 

Hugh B. O'Donnell 
East Qeveland 
GeorKe J. Blatt EuKene C. Hilkert 
East Liverpool 
Lawrence W. Smith, Jr. 
Elyria 

Charles E. Guth Donald F. Halpin David S. Horan Richard S. Horan 
Fort Becovery 
Theo. J. Sauer 
Fostoria 

Gerald A. Sheibley 
Fremont 

Alfred R. White 
Gcdion 

Raymond C. Ritchey 
Girord 

GeofKc Edu-ard Schidel 
Hamilton 
Andrew W. Chemey 
James C. Clark 
John P. Flanagan 
Howard 
Vincent B. Welker 
Hubbard 
Samuel J. Jackson 
bonton 
William H. Jeffen-s Edu-ard F. Weinheimer 
Kent 
Edmund A. Gleason 
Kenton 
Walter F. Johnson 
Lakewood 
Frank J. Butler, Sr. Thomas C. Byrne Gilbert H. Coyne Jas. H. DriscoU Robert A. Lux Hou-ard M. MUler Robert A. Rotbacker Francis D. Slouch 
Lancaster 
Clarence T. Joos 
Lebanon 
Chas. B. DeChani 
Lewisburg 
Leonard B. Lutz 
Lima 
James W. Hanley 
Robert E. Sulli\-an 
London 
Harold H. Sparlini; 
Lorain 
William D. Aranyos 
John £. Kennedy 
Louisville 
Merlin J. Caldwell 
Richard A. GuUinit 
Laurence J. Rebillot 
Lowellville 
Thos. F. ^feehan 
Marietta 
Frederick S. Furbee 
Marion 
Edu-ard C. Watters. Jr. John W. Watters 
Massillon 
Cedl G. Martin Robert W. Snee 
Maumee 
John W. Hackett 
Miamisburg 
Charles A. DiMatteo 
KCddlebronch 
John M. Cavalier 
Middletown 
Robert J. Krehs 
Mt. Vernon 
Woodrow A. Stillu-agon Raymond J. liue 
Napoleon 
Edmund N. Yeaeei 
Newark 
Chester D. Cullison 
New Bremen Walter P. Rosselit 
New Philadelphia Ernest L. Clausint; 
NUes 
James C. Brutz 
James B. Daley 
North Baltimore Walter F. Moirissey 
Norwalk 
Albert E. Foos 
Leon J. Soisson 
Osbom LeRoy R. Rasmussen 
Petrysburg Thomas J. Schiefer 
Port Clinton Albert C. Pettibone 
Portsmouth 
Raymond £ . Flannit^n Harry W. Rich 
Reading Herbert P. Gardner 
Bipley 
Richard J. Germann 
John F. Trapp 
Bocky River 

James J. McGettrick 
Richard C. Peieau 

Roseville LawTence E. Crowley 
St. Mary's 

John F. Koch 
Charles W. O'Reilly 
Salem James C. Ca\-anau.i;h 
Sandusky 

John J. Millott 
John £. Savord 
Joseph A. Sint;ler 
Shadyside 

Clifton E. McParland Felix A. McParland, Jr. 
Shaker Heights Edwin G. Caldwell 
Springfield 

Joseph F. Dautremont 
Aaron J, Halloran 
.John W. Henry-
John W. McHu?h 
Edward A. Tehan 
Donald C. Rod(;ers 
Steubenville 

John R. Clary 
Francis A. Smoc:er 
Tiffin 

Philip L. Fleck Richard A. Leahy Howard E. Weimerskirk 
Tiltonsville Joseph R. Nardone 
Toledo 

Charles V. Beck Robert J. Breska James G. Bunjess John Q. Carey Daniel B. Conlon John F. Connolly Harry J. Detzer. Jr. 
Robert G. Fish Peter J. FluKe Walter H. Hartuni; Joseph R. Hillcbtand John A. Hurst John W. Jackson Robert C. Jorris Robert M. Kopf Albert J. Kranz Firniin J. Krieger Edwin G. Lisiakowski Patrick F. McCarty Charles D. McCoU Robert J. Mithen Carlton A. Roi!,&:e Thomas M. Shea Harold R. Stine Robert H. Stoeppler Richard J. Thompson Raymond L. Tillman Francis C. Wade Raymond F. Wilmer 
Troy 
Charles B. Rasor John A. Roth 
TJrbona 
Thomas E. Hackett Jeffrey V. Powers Robt. F. Powers 
Wadsworth Eui^ene Stronz 
Wapokoneta Charles F. Weiher 
Warren 
F. R. Ca\-anau!^h Frank G. Guamieri Donald A. O'Malley Bernard E. Zipperer 
Wellston Paul E. Falter 
WellsviUe Jas. L. McSweeney 
WiUard Walter A. Drury 
Wooster Arthur J. Klise 
Wyoming James M. Brennan 
Youngstown 
John P. Fleaka Michael T. McGlew George E. Prokop Stephen W. Repasky Richard A. Riley Joseph J. Robinson Walter H. Vahey Wm. H. Vahey 
Zanesville 
Charles E. Kaplan Raymond E. Lont^treth Francis T. McDonald Bernard J. O'Leary 
Oklahoma 
El Bono Paul J. Cradcn 
Headrick Robert £. Thomas 
Lawton GeorRC W. Barber 
McAlester Walter G. Layden 
Muskogee Gerald T. FitzRcrald 
Oklahoma City 
' James M. Dolan Slark H. Dono\-an Charles B. McParland Robert £. McParland Charles L. Monnot William P. Aforan William P. Wilson 

Porteau Murray A. Youni? 
Pryor Thomas Hale 
Snyder Ra>inond S. Brown 
Tulsa 

Charles II. Becker • John J. Conry John H. Conway John P. Devlin ^fark J. Flaniipin Harold >V. Gooden Jos. T. Lantry Thos. D. Lvons 
H. John McDonnell Joseph R. McGraw Clay M. Murray William J. O'Connor Martin J. Reidy B>Ton M. Smith 
Oregon 
Albany 

Edward L. Barrett John R. Barrett Franklin E. Lar\vood 
Grand Bonde Edward J. Murphy 
Morshfield Joseph E. Morrissey 
Medford 

Charles C. Connolly Clarence R. Schmidt 
North Bend Lorenzo G. CutHp 
Portland 

Arthur B. Butine Morrison A. Conway Jas. A. Cullii^n Raymond E. Doherty John C. GroeRcr James R. Hcaly Albert M. Hodler Roscoe P. Hurst Arthur L. Ist\*anovic Thomas M. Joyce Richard N. Kavanaugh Frank A. Kiernan. Jr. Edwin M. Kinderman Hu^h V. Laccy, Jr. Natt McDouipill Natt G. McDouniall, Jr. \fartin M. McLauKhlin Thomas D. McMahon 
L. Bernard MacXab John H. ^Ierr>Tnan John P. O'Hara Arnold B. Peterschmidt Geort;e W. Philbrook Ralph M. Pran Albert L. Raraacciotti Peter F. Sandrock Edward J. Sandstrom Robert P. Schefter Rolden A. Schefter Leo J. Shannon John R. Sulli\-an 
Penn. 
Aldenville .Arthur A. Loesch 
Aliquippa Charles J. Rihn 
JUlentown John M. Broderick 
Allison Park 

A. Neil Galone 
Alioona 
William S. Clear John N. Hoffman, Jr. Charles A. McAleer Terence A. Wharton 
Ambridge Joseph F. Beeek 
Arehbold Edmund P. Fhilbin 
Aspinwoll William A. Keatinff 
Athens Lewis K. Giess 
ATOCO 
James F. O'Brien 
Baden 
Thos. F. Skeehan 
Francis L. Timney 
Bear Creek ~ John W. Davis 
Bearer 
William J. Eberhardt . Donald W. Gressly 
BelleTue 
Edward J. Skeehan 
Richard J. Wehs 
Bethlehem Albion M. Griffin 
Bradford Francis P. Fensel 
Brownsville 
Bernard P. KfcCormick ^fatthew P. Ward 
Bryn Athyn Willard J. CromU 
Butler Edward M. Shields, Jr. 
CampKlI Roderick J. Gilles 
Canonsburg Francis J. Buckley 
Canton John F. Ryan 
Corbondala 
Ferdinand J. Krantz 
Leonard P. Krantz 
Carnegie 
Michael E. Fahey 
Chas J. Portman 
Charleroi 
George C. Kfartinet Jas. K. Russell 
Chester 
Sidney L. Dart Thomas L McLouKhlin Joseph H. Messick Jos. K. Mielcarek 
Cloirton Kenneth L. StiUey 
Clarion Francis P. Dayton 
Clarks Siinimit 
Louis J. Finske Jos. F. BJanninff 
Clearfield 
D. Edward Chaplin Lawrence J. Rougeux 
SGdlond 

A. L. Sonnhalter 
Coiddol* 

Thomas J. Malloy 
John F. Sharpe 
Coraopoiia Joseph P. Fisher 
Granott Richard J. O'Donnell -
DoUoB Joseph E. Guion 
Darby Martin J. O'Connell, Jr. 
Donera 

Edw. B. Flinn 
GeoTKC J. Kovaldk 
John J. KCnj^o 
DrexelSU Charles J. Baader 
Dnamore Chester A. Wilfia 
Dnqneme 

Edward L. Kasper 
Charles D . O'Malley 
Boston Richard S. Towne 
East Pittsburgh Jas. A. Morgan 
Ebensbtnrg 

Walter S. Anderson 
Charles G: Hasson 
EUweodGty Geoi^ H. Reilly 
Erie 

Lionel A. Carney Afauricc J. Coushlin Martin A. Gloekler, Jr. Doane M. Kliller Gerald P. O'Connor Bernard A. Schrocck Robt. F. Weschler 
F^oelond 

Francis A. Carr 
Pkter J. GaUasher 
Thomas .J. Johnson 
GolUtsin J(An P. Jones 
J. P. Maxwell 
Gleonde Richard A. Weppner 
Greensbnrg Geo. H. Slaine 
Hdmsburg 
Harry P. Breslin Walter J. Lutz William J. Moore Vmiiam A. O'Connor 
Hosleton 

John H. Campbell 
James J. Odl F^ul J. Flood 
Homestead 
K. N. BardzU 
Honasdale 
Robert J. Demer Frederick L. Wenixer 
Houston James L. Budianan 
bufiona Quentin J. Wildemaa 
Jeisey Shan Robert P. HcGomn 
lohnstowB 
Wnniam H . ComnT Albert F. Doyle Philip Lopiesti Donald L. Norton Enxene E. Raymond Louis A. Reiser 
Sonthmont, rnsl'n 
E. E. Slick. Jr. 
Kane 
Frank-Gillis Walden W. McDade Wilson E. McDade 
Lancaster 
Henry F. Frailer Steimen J. Hauser 
MlllSlOtU Samuel J. Boyle, HI John E. Cox James J. VuRrin ' 
Loirobe 
Maxs C. Dovey Eugene H. Edwards 
I«echbnrg Robert C. Maher, Jr. 
ligonier James U. Daly 
Lad Horsn 
Joseph M. Blake Edward S. McCabe Thomas H. Miller 
Lyndora Charles E. Bemben 
Mohonoy CSty Ji^in J. Joyce 
Manchester. Teric William T. Rolhert 
Moaoa 
Charles S. Cunan Chas. P. O'&lalley 
Manor John J. Casby 
Manor Upper Daibr WiUiam H. Bums 
Morietta Charles J. O'Connor 
McAdoo John J. McBride Joseph V . FOstupack 
McKeesport Edwaid H. Myers 
McKees Bodes 
Joseph A. Lafferty Patrick L. McDenaott 
MeodviUs John A. Siexd 
Mercer John W. Ely 
Mddlebnzy Eutene C. Fetiick 
Minenrille 
James L. CuUather 
John B. McGurl 
Monoca 
Daniel J. Vo^t 
dement F. S«v-eeney 
ML Lebcmon 
John G. Kissane 
Clare B. McDermott 
ML Pleasant 
Patrick J. Rega. Jr. 
Stefan J. Slamna 
Muncy 
Thomas B. Dorris 
Nanticoke 
Bernard A. Wasilewski 
Norberth 
Raj-mond F. Kohin 
New Albany 
John T. AIcDermott 
New Bethlehem 
Edw. Fasenm^TT 
New Castle 
John J. DeGanno 
Joseph A. Green 
New Kensington 
Robert W. Wilson 
Norristown 
Francis J. Gallagher 
Norwood 
DeLancey J. Daiis' 
Oil City 
Louis S. Bouquin 
EuRcne &1. FJeckcnstein 
Thomas J. Murray 
Olyphant 
Edw. F. La\'in 
Oreland 
Walter R- Riley 
Philadelphia John V. AUen Ernest J. Baader Raymond J. Broderick 
Walter H . Brown 
Edward J. Buder 
Custode A. Crisd 
Louis J. Delone 
Vincent J. Donohue John J. Dowlit^ 
Thomas Goss 
John J. Hannigan 
Erik Hemmingsen 
Kelvin A. Kasper 
John F. Kenney 
Joseph A. LeStrange. Jr. 
I%ilip A. Loes 
James F. McGee 
Raymond T. McNally Vincent A. McNally 
Edw. J. MiniTey -Charles J. O'Boyle Joseph F. O'Hara Emanuele J. Po m John J. Ridley 
Philip F. Rosbach, Jr. Joseph P. Somers 
WUiam A. Tcriieyden, Jr. 
Phoenizville 
John A. Gubanich 
Pittsburgh 
John S. Barry John J. Breslin Edward G. B^Tiies Edward R. Conley Rudolph G. Cmko\*ic Jas. AV. Dodson 
John G. Donohoe 
Richard C. Donohoe 
V. J. Eichenlaub GeorRC E. A. Fairley AUen F. Felts WiUiam H. Ginder, Jr. Paul E. Gray GeorRc E. Green. Jr. Aaron J. Hamm Edw-ard F. Lee John F. McCaRue Joseph P. McDonald John J. McGoi-cm, r. James E. McNulty Frankl>-n McSorley John J. AfcSorlcy, Jr. Dorotheus Meinert Francis J. Kliller Edw. J, O'Connor James L. O'Toolc John J. O'Toole WiUiam C. OToole Joseph J. Papa 
A. Lester Pierce Frederick C. Robcrtshaw Georffe J. Schill Bernard J. Stettler Chas. A. Totten Ra>Tnond F. Totten Charles C. Troha Austin J. WaU John J. Ward John J. Ward. Jr. Ouintin H. Witt Harry L. Wunderly 
Pitiston 
Frands F. Egan 
Geo. C. Rou-an 
PottSTille 
John W\ Hitmins 
John F. McCarron 
Punxsutowney 
August J. Dereume 
John G. Zeedick 
Mt Penn, Beading 
Charles W, Hastings 
Beading 
Willi^n J. Cassidy 
C>-ril A. Jones 
Ferdinand A. Krcmp 
Robt. 6. Kremp James A. Moulder 
RenoTo 
Frands C- Ha>-es 
Bidgewoy 
Thos. F. Klinsel 
St. Marys 
Thos. G. Gregory 
Scronton 
John E. Boland Joseph F. Comcrford, Jr. Thomas P. Comcrford Paul F. Devers Robert A. Golden Thomas F. Leahy John C. Quinn Joseph M. Quinn Joseph L. Rafter Edu-ard L. Shean 
Sewickley 
Francis J. Haley 
Sharon 
John L. Considine 
Tliomas L. Duffy 
C>Til T. Garvcy 
Stroudsburg 
John J. Kinane Christie D. J. ShuU 
Sunbiuy 
John N. McDonneU 
Susquehanna 
Thos. A. McMahon 
Swarthmore 
^Valter F.Rauber 
Swoyersviile 

Anthony W. WaUace 
Throop 

John J. Ko\-acs 
Tionesto 

ACchael J. Connor 
Titusville 

Earl J. Dardes 
Robert C. Greenawalt 
Troy 

Francis A. McGce 
Towonda 

John J. Coleman 
Ulster 

Francis H. AfcCue James G. O'Ketfe, Jr. 
Uniontown 

Joseph E. Kovach 
Verona 

Paul A. Dougher 
VillanoTa 

Harold F. Hartman 
Washington 

W'illiam L. Golden 
Waynesburg 

Samuel R. Reed 
West Philadelphia 

Henry J. McKnight, Jr. 
West ^ew 

Ra>Tnond A. Nedwidek 
Wewfoid 

jUbert F. Daschbach 
Wilkes Bmre 

Charles J. Baab John F. Cavan Joseph A. Gibbons Edw. H. Gunster Robert J. Law Joseph F. O'Brien John A. •Whitman 
Windber 

John G. Lesko 
WYoming 

G. V. Perry 
York 

Raymond E. Bramer 
R. Island 
Davisville 

RoRer W. Brown 
Edgewood 

John J. Fasan 
Fort Adams 

John W. O'Nell 
Newport 

Thomas J. Murphy Laurence P. Stanton 
J. B. Steel, Jr. 
Powtucket 

Andrew J. McMahon 
J. V. MitcheU Samuel J. NeUd, Jr. 
ProTidence 

Cyril A. CosteUo Raymond lannudllo Thomas R. McGrath 
John A. Mclntyre 
John J. Rourke 
Slcrtersville 
Charles J. Oshinslu. Jr. 
WCDTWldt 
John C. Rooney 
Wasleilr 
KlaHo NardoDc 
Woonsodnt 
Charles V. Carroll 
John B. Kaoe 
Robert H. Morel 
Edwin G. O'Connor 
Patrick V. O'Hara 
S. Carolina 
Alexandria 
Michael J. Cuny 
Beaufort 
Joseph M. CaldweU 
Charleston 
James J. Condon. Jr. 
Klatthew M. O'Brien 
Michael J. O'Brien 
Colnmlria 
Joseph M. CosteUo 
Florenc* 
GcorRe S. Nichols, Jr. 
Greenville 
James F. Mafcaiahan, UI 
Nary Yard 
Ra>'mond L. WoUam 
S. Dakota 
Elkpoint 
Leonard J. Muxrar 
Fort Pierre 
Carl T.Fischer 
Kennebec 
N. R. FurlonR 
HfitcheU 
Louis E. Navin 
Bopid Gty 
Joseph L. Hrachovec 
Sdem 
John H. Ahem 
Scotland 
Edu-ard J. EnxUsh 
Sioux Falls 
Joseph H. Bcchtold Theodore N. Feyder 
Speoifish 
Henry J. Frawley 
Tennessee 
Kxson 
Norbert G. MonmnK 
Jackson 
William E. Randolph 
KnosTille 
Paul E. Morrison William N. Sherman 

Lookout Mountain 
James A. Burkhart 
Memphis 

Timothy E. Babb GeorKc A. BilliuKsIey WiUiam M. Fay John E. Franchere Charles E. Linxenfelder John S. Montedonico Chas. P. J. Mooney. Jr. FMA C. MuUen John M. ReKan P^ul Rush Malcolm _ V. ^ Saxon Joseph SiRnaiKo 
W. O. Sturdirant Waiiam G. Wliitman Jas. W. Wrape 
NashTiUe 

Nicholas A. Wenning 
Oak Hidge 

Frauds E. DonoRhue 
Daniel J. Pflaum 
Pulaski 

Michael A. Feeney 
Signal Mounloin 
J. Read VoiRt 
Union Cits' 

Joe Hamilton 
Texos 
Austin 

John T. Yeiser 
Beaimiont 

Joseph E. Broussard, HI .Alfred J. Duperier Leo J. Afixson 
Coiinis Chiisti 

Waiiam W. Green 
Dallas 

Louis C. Briegcr 
John J. Killen 
Mike Ixonard 
Chas. £. Meyer 
Kenneth A. Rohyans 
Walter J. Schmucker 
John G. Shortall 
EI Paso 

Hugh C; Adams 
William E. Beckley 
Thomas E. Coppinger 
Frands H. Herron 
Fabens 

Rudolph &I. Lopez 
Fort Worth 

Thomas P. WaU, Jr. 
Golveston 

John C. Starkie 
Houston 

Charles M. Andres 
Charles S. Atchison 
Edw. D. Duggan 
Robert L. Grogan 
Julius T. Herzog 
Samuel E. Kehoe 
Robert C Paine. Jr. 
John G. Rhein 
John R. Schmitt 
Leightoo F. Young 
Laredo 

Robert M. Benavides 
Wm. Y. Benavides 
M. P. CuUinan 
LoUta 

Chas. S. Mitchell 
lubbock 
Harry N. Roberts 
Teirr E. Wilson 
Pampa 
EdH-ard W. Bisett 
Paris 
Wm. W. Fitzpatrick 
Quonah 
Arthur A. Keys 
San Angelo 
Francis G. Weinmann, Jr. 
San Antonio 
Robert W. Butler 
Edwin R. Dulin 
Leonard M. Hess 
.\lcide J. LeBIanc 
Harold A. Tynan 
Dudley R. Walker, Jr. 
Laurence A. Winffertcr 
Smithville 
RoRCr H. BjTne 
Sour Lake 
Shelby A. Romere 
Waco 
Joseph T. Cordaro Charles J. Graham 
Waxohachie 
Edw. M. Naughton, Jr. ­
Yorktown 
Alphonse %f. Respondek 
Utah 
Vernal 
Nicholas J. Meagher, Jr. 
Salt Lake CitY John C. Capitolo 
Vermonf 
Burlington 
Alatthew G. Leary, Jr. Graham W. McGowan Arthur Mitiguy 
Montpelier 
John J. Rivalt 
Moretown 
Bernard R. Seguin 
Butland 
Francis E. Cannon WiUiam C. Carbine John E. Nichols 
SL Albans 
E%-erett W. Menard 
St. Johnsbury 
James A. Cannon, Jr. 
Virginia 
Alexandria 
Richard L. Donoghue Charles E. Freeman, Jr. 
J. Thomas Carver 
Arlington 
John T. Barber 
Arthur S. Burkert 
William J. Fish 
Forest J. Hall 
Joseph F. Hennessy 
Philip E. Ryan 
Paul C. TuUy 
Joseph E. Vaughan 

ChcnlotteTille Richard G. Brydgcs 
Ciadock Anthony P. Sersc 
Crewe Albert L. Brown 
Emporia 

S. TahnadKe Powell 
Hompton William J. O'Sullivan 
Langley Field Bernard N. Daley 
LitUe Creek Frederick W. Anmn^ton 
McLean Donald C. Beckler 
Newport News Jones F. CahiU John C. Donly 
Noriolk 

Jack A. Hasten 
John H. Jonston 
Bichmond 

Robert J. Birkenhauer Forrest G. Cotton Charles E. Kelly _ Charles M. Morrison Edward V. O'Sullivan 
Quontico George E. Leppig 
Roanoke Robert I. Howard 
Waynesboro William F. Lawless 

Wosftington 
Bellingham Henry J. Roehl 
Bremerton Eugene W. Bichon 
Camas George A/ Charters 
CentroUa 

Wm> H. Cameron John C. Pohlemus 
Kent Edward L. Cochrane 
Port Townsend 

E. Morris Slarrett 
Seattle 

Roy C. Bailie Keith G. Brady Joseph L. Carroll Leo J. Cummings Byril K. Grosedose Patrick A. Heney Richard H. May 
Edviard F. Meagher 
David A. Norton 
Robert I. Pigott 
Clarence W. Shannon 
Jos. D. Sinnott 
George C. Starbuck 
Spokane 
Thomas C. Kearns 
Thos. A. E. Lally 
James H. Lynch 
Joseph J. McGrath 
Thos. D. Mott, Jr. 
William R. Olson 
Tacoma Edgar A. Pessemier 
Vancouver 
James J. Gibbons 
Thomas £. Meade 
Wenolchee 
Homer A. Crollard 
Henry H. McManus 
W. Virginia 
Charleston 
James A. Champley 
Kenneth J. Gutshaw 
John M. HiU, Jr. 
Hugh J. Loder 
Oscar E. Veazey 
Clarksburg 
Albert G. Aucremanne 
Camille E. Aucremanne 
Elkins John F. Brown, Jr. John A. Cain 
Fairmont Richard B. Parrish 
Huntingtan 
Daniel L. Klein 
James A. Malloy 
John J. Warren 
Logan Daniel D. Dahill 
Madison John H. Millar 
Moimdsville John P.Lautar 
Parkersburg 
Bartholomew A. Crowley Robert P. McDonough 
Point Pleasant James D. Swords 
St Marys James M, Coram Henry P. Davis 
Sisterville Wm. A. Davis 
Spencer James M. McQuain 
Weston 
Hunter M. Bennett Andrew F. Sleigh Harold J. Tomaschko Andrew F. Whelan, Jr. 

Wheeling 

James B. Beltz Joseoh C. Kaltenbach George H. Weiss 
Wisconsin 
.Antigo William J. Flatley 
Appleton 

Robert L. Fountain 
Karl H. • Langlois 
Robert' E. lijiglois 
John J. Riedl 
Robert G. Stenger 
Ashland George W. Harrison 
Basco Vincent J. Henry 
Beaver Dam Karl G. Hutter 
BeUville Floyd A. Genin 
Beloit 

Richard F. Burns Kenneth L. Oberbruner 
Berlin Wallace Ceyak 
Boscobel John E. Barnetl 
Burlington Francis H. Itzin 
Cosco 

Wayne J. Fendl 
Cashton Norbert J. Geicr 
Chilton Jerome F. Fox 
Chippewa Falls William F. Jane 
Colby John K. Schemmer 
Colgate Robert L. Callan 
Dorchester Corliss V. Jensen 
East Troy Donald G. Voss 
Eau Claire John W. Kaiser 
Elkhart Lake Oliver J. Chayie 
Elkhom Charles A. Jahr 
Fennimor* Geo. F. Franb 
Fond du Lac John H. Hanson 
Green Bay 
Edmond J. Arvey Henry S. Atkiuon Fredoick W. Christman John F. Christman Wallace P. Christman Henry A. Delacenseiie Leonard J. Dorschel Jas. E. Engels John F. Lynch Robt. E. Lynch Robt. E. SneU 
KgUand Jos. p. Steppler 
Hurley Alois A. Hoffman Janesrille ' Mark A. Cullen Donald W. McCue Donald G. Waufle Wm. F. Wilbur 
KonsasnUe Thomas £ . Hock 
Kenosha Joseph M. Gaffney 
D. C. Lendoni George T. Poreden 
Lac du Flombeau Frederick F. PoUmar 
LaCtosse Robert F. Bartl 
F. A. Reiman, Jr. 
Ladysnuth Wilson B. Craodell 
Modison 
Joseph I. Martin 
Joseph M. SheU 
Manitowiah Edwin W. Hunter 
Manitowoc GeOtge L. Tw^lmann Jerome P. Lcdvina Henry J. Steiner 
Marinette Michael S. Corry Cornelius J. Klavcr 
Marshfield 
Andrew J. Felker Patrick V. Felker Edmond G. Fleming 
• Robt. W. Lind Arnold P. Seidl John G. Thomas Ivo A. Umhoefer Richard P. Umhoefer 
Mauston Francis £. Ciuran Frederick Jos. Curran Peter H. Cunan 
MenoHha Robert G. Crockett 

' Finlip G. DahWieTg 
LeoMTd A. 0iiaiiigIuie 
Mdvin E. Laatbrecfat 
D . E. Scfaaabd 
KhraukM Rkjiatd J. BaHmaa Edward A. Bartley Robad F. BertT Royal R. Boahaid John J. Bmst John M. Caver Frands E. Cody John S. Footer ThoauB W. FnM Eugene J. (WUMmi Ruban Gdihaid Frank J Jloldaimir Edward G. HnS Thos. C. Kdly Robert R. Kenan John J. Tiinnrhin John C. Litdier Michael F. Sfabmer John J. Mclntyie James F. McKenna Danid J. McNally Geoi«eD. Fitentice Danid J. Rolfl Manrics J. Seanton Wimam J. SdiaDer Arthnr D . Slavin dam n A. Staler Robert N. Tharinger Edward F. Walsh Edw. T- Yocker Geo. F. Zie^ 
Minnnma Arthur M. Docirin 
Moaie* Edward J. Emmenegger 
Neeaoh James J. Krans 
NewLondaa Frands A. Werner 
Mew Hjchwcmil 
Robert B. Heywood 
Frank £. Yesselyoi« 
OCOBOBOWOC Valentin Blatz Kdtb D. Enpetson Harry G. John, Jr. 
Okondie* Frands -J. Triewdler 
OddnA 

Louis E. Carpenter 
Bernard F. LeRoy 
Adiilles H. Moorman 
Edward J. Riska 
FQctog# 

John F. Cairdl 
Bocine' Ridiard J. Bamaann Donald F. Guyette Vernon S. Hedit James J. Rice Clarence H. Sdtinkowitcb Raymond J. Sieber Robert B. Voelker Elmer J. Zenner 
Heedtbmg Jdin R. HidKf 
lOiiaelaiidar RobcTt G. Roac Kari J. ScAueppcTt Rnssdl T. Treleven AIha F. 
Tifstgr J. SdnMcn 
WiHiajn A. GottsMttr 
Leonard T. Hoppe 
William G. Doocette 
SbaSUbait ViJSSMm B. Haijden 
Danid O. Qmaiaa 
Jdm V. QninUn 
Joseph L, Doyle 
Sispenoc 
Loots J-. Carer 
Jasws J. HiU 
Sherman May 
GeiaU F. McGiB 
Wm. C. Stack 
Three lokM Frederick WiOianB 
TmKmtm 
Carl J. Janskr 
Wulenoo John M. Vodker 
Waupaca Paul M. Bart 
Wauputt Charles E. Mamy 
Wonaoa Forrest M. Cawler 
Wa 
John T. Conigan 
Weal JUIia 
Harry J. Potter 
Weal Band 
James F. Baumgartner Matthew N . Gmuias, Jr. Cari Fidi Jdm ¥. tSA 
Wiacoada Bavada. 
WnUam F. 
John G. SoIEvan 
Wyoming 
Philip S. MaboocT 
COMpUt 
Cbailes A. Gdocs Maurice D . Landers Justin J. McCartlir 
lkiwliii9S V^Uiam J. LotRnes 
Arthur A. Sandiwfay ­

PERTINENT FACTS about Notre Dame 
Organization 

The University of Notre Dame was founded in 1842. It is conducted by the Congregation of Holy Cross. (Congregatio a Sancta Cruce). The University includes Colleges of (a) Arts and Jitters, (b) Science, (c) Engineering, (d) Law, 
(e) Commerce, and the Graduate School. There are 33 departments in the undergraduate school and the Graduate School offers the Ph.D. degree in eleven departments — Philosophy, Eng­lish, History, Political Science, Biology, Chemistr}-, Physics, Mathematics and Metallurgy. The present president. Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., is the fourteenth president, taking office in July, 1946. Present enrollment (1948) totals 4,500 students. The faculty numbers 433, of whom three-fourths are laymen. Fifty buildings are used on the 1700 acre campus for University purposes. The Notre Dame dining halls, constructed in 1927, serve 15,000 meals daily during the school year. There are 14 libraries on the campus, serving general. College and departmental needs, with 250,000 volumes, many of them rare special collections, such as the Dante and Zahm and the Nieuwland and Greene libraries. Fourteen growing laboratories, including the famous Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND), serve the Colleges of Science and Engineering. The University is a member of the North Central Association of Colleges and Universities, of the National Catholic Educational Association, of the 
Association of American Colleges, and is accred­
ited by the Association of American Universities. 
There are thirteen residence halls on the campus. It has always been the policy* of the University to house students on the cahipus. Present facilities require supplementing for permanent enrollment at the present figure by some four residence halls, and dining hall facilities proportionately. Three present residence halls need replacement 
Enrollment in 1905 was 210 students in the Uni­versity; in 1925, 2156 students; in 1940, 3343 students. 
Present research includes the highly significant germ-free technique of the Bacteriology Department, nu­clear ph)^ics, electronic anti-malarial drugs, nutri­tion projects including vitamin study and the causes of tooth decay, and others, aided by the germ-free technique and by equipment such as the powerful 4,000,000-volt electrostatic generator. 
The summer school, now eight weeks in duration, which has graduated hundreds of nuns, priests, and brothers of various orders, was begun in 1918. 
(1947 enrolhnent, 1752). 

The Bureau of Economic Research has published a number of studies which have attracted wide atten­tion in finance and industry. 
Academic Tradition 
The College of Law was the' first permanent depart­ment in that field organized in a Catholic college in America (1869). 
The department of civil engineering, also a pioneer Catholic educational departure, was organized in 1875. 
Some of the most significant experiments in aeronau­tical science were performed at Notre Dame in the '80s by Prof. Albert Zahm. 
The first successful wireless message in thu country was sent by Prof. Jerome Greene from Notre Dame to Saint Mary's in May, 1899. 
The basic fonnulae for synthetic rubber came_ from Notre Dame laboratories through the genius of Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., supplying the basis for Dupont's development of Neoprene. 
The Mediaeval Institute, founded in 1946, is based on research and publications in previous years, and is projected as a great contribution to modem Christian civilization. 
Hisforical 

The Laetare Medal was established in 1883. The Wightman Art Gallery is one of the best art collections in the Middle West, occupying six rooms on the second floor of the University Library. In World War II, Notre Dame contributed 10,000 men to the services, and devoted the facilities of the campus to training and research. The Naval Midshipman School commissioned 12,000 trainees at Notre Daine. Notre Dame's gold stars in World War I numbered 56, in World War II, 327. Father Stephen Badin, first priest ordained in the United States and one-time owner of the site of the University, is buried in the replica of the Log Chapel on the campus where he pursued his In­dian mission work. 
The Laymen's Retreat (1947 attendance, 1500). A three-day retreat for Catholic men from the Mid­dle West, one of the largest of its kind, was insti-
Of Genera/ Interest 
The great fire which almost destroyed Notre Dame occurred in April, 1879. 
A part of both the annual student body and faculty are non-Catholic, one of the rich and favorite traditions of Notre Dame, incorporating as it does both tolerance and democracy. 
Notre Dame students, as in other colleges and uni­versities, pay only a part of the cost of their edu­cation. The balance is made up by gifts from alumni and non-alumni, income from A e limited endowment, by income from auxiliary projects, and by the unremunerated services of the religious of the Congregation of Holy Cross, who serve as teachers and administrators tvithout salary. 
The "American Midland Naturalist" was founded at Notre Dame by Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., almost as eminent in botany as he was in chem­istry. 
The Ave Maria, Catholic home weekly, was founded at Notre Dame in 1865 by Father Edward Sorin, founder of the University, and is now published on the campus in a modem'printing plant. 
Sorin Hall, senior residence hall, was the first student residence hall built at a Catholic school in this country (1872). 
Three-fourths, or 10,500, of Notre Dame's alumni were graduated after 1930. The first football game was played at Notre Dame in April, 1887. 
Knute Rockhe, world famous coach, was graduated from Notre Dame as an honor student in diemistry in 1914. He was head coach of football from 1917 to 1931. During that period his teams won 111 games and lost only 13 games, tying 6 games. In 58 seasons Notre Dame has won 360 games and lost only 77 games, tying 29 games. 
The Bequest and Living Trust Committee 
The primary purpose of the Bequest and Living Trust Committee is to enlist the interest of all lawyers and trust offi­cers in the community to stimulate the remembrance of Notre Dame in wills of local persons. 
Then, too, the Committee can be the source of information in the community in matters of tax deduction benefits for all donors, and in the legal aspects of corporate giving. 
The Bequest and Living Trust Committee can be invalu­able in helping the City Committee to ascertain what persons in the higher bracket should be contacted. 
Lawyers are obviously the initial choice for the Bequest and Living Trust Committee, but judges, non-practicing law­yers (law grads in business for example), bankers, accountants, insurance counsellors, and others with particular local value on this Committee may be appointed to advantage. 
Present plans call for the organization of The Notre Dame Legal Association at commencement time. The Association should be very instrumental in helping the Foundation achieve its ends. 
The brochure on wills, trusts, etc., will follow the organi­zation of the Legal Association. The brochure wiU be divided into four sections—^wills, trusts, direct gifts, and endowments. Each section will cover its topic completely, even to the point of the legal forms to be used. 
-O'­

The following is a hst of the Bequest and Living Trust Committees that have already been formed and are function­ing: 
Belmont Mass. 1*» Angeles. Calif. 
Chairman: Joseph P. Sullivan Chairman: Eugene Kennedy 
Committee: James R. Skahan „ . . _ , 
Muskegon. Wen. Davenport. Iowa Chairman: Joseph T. RUey 
Chairman: George W. Vander Vennett 
Ft Wayne, Ind. Newark, New leisey 
Chairman: Thomas A. McKiernon Chairman: James E. Fagan 
H<nn»burg, Pa. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
Chairman: John « Bream Committee: Frank V. Burke • ' '•• Committee: Frank J. Sekinger 
Indianapolis, Ind. Providence, B. L 
Chairman: Michael B. Reddington Chairman: T. Russell McGrath 
ar 

City Chairmen and Committees 
Note: * Indicates that a Club President is included in more them one Committee. 
Aberdeen. S. D. 
Chairman: T. C. Kasper 

Akron. O. 
Chairman: William G. Burkhardt 

Albany. N. Y. 
Chairman: John F. Campbell 

Albuquerque, N. M. 
Chairman: Louis C. Lujan 

AUentown. P c 
Chairman: Leo R. Mclntyre 

Anderson, Ind. 
Chairman: Elmo A. Funk 

Arlington. Moss. 
Chairman: Robert E. Donovan Committee: Hugh A. Mallon, Jr., George 
E. Tobin 

Asbury Park. N. J. 
Chairman: Herbert McCabe AsheviUe. N. C. Chairman: Edward J. Koontz 
Ashtabula. O. 
Chairman: John W. Zabach 

Ailonta. Ga. 
Chairman: Alfred R. Abrams 

Auburn, N. Y. 
Chairman: George B. Shamon 

Augusta, Me. 
Chairman: Roland E. DeCoteau Committee: Edward Dempsey, Adolphe 
J. Gingras. Daniel B. Hickey 

Aurora. Neb. 
Chairman: George C. Wanek 

Baltimore. Md. 
Chairman: Harold A. Williams Committee: John Conley, Franklyn C. Hochreiter, Brother Martin John, Levris 
J. O'Shea, Roy Scholz, Dan Sullivan 

Botaria. N. Y. 
Chairman: Lawrence T. Casey 
Committee: Louis Brady, Thomas G. Canty, Donald M. Donahue, James W. Murray, Philip J. Weiss 

Battle Creek. Mich. 
Chairman: Harold E. Steinbacher Committee: John M. Allen, Raymond 
R. Allen, Edward Baum, John T. Brown­ing, Frank L. Condon, Thomas H. Gould, Edward Hieftje, A. A. Magnot­ta, Francis Lee Murray, Henry T. Owen, Clyde S. Salter, Lewis R. Sin­clair, Robert Ward 

Beaumont Texas 
Chairman: Clyde E. Broussard Committee: Walter M. Casey, John H. Phelan, Jr. 

Bedford. Ind. 
Chairman: Clarence J. Donovan 

Belmont. Mass. 
Chairman: Joseph P. Sullivan 

Benton Horbor. Niles, St Joseph. Mich. Chairman: Gerard C. Theisen Committee: Ray J. Beland, -William Downey, Casper R, Grathwohl, John Kinney, Jr., Eugene J. O'Toole,. Sr., Maurice A. Weber 
Binghamton. N. Y. 
Chairman: John F. Doimelly 

Binninghom. Ala. Chcrirman: George J. Dawson Committee: John P. Berscheid, Edward B. Crawford, Joe McGeever, Paul Scolise 
BoiM. Idaho 
Chairman: Jesse B. Hawley, Jr. 

Boston. Mass. 
Chairman: Robert N. Sullivan 
Committee: John T. Burke, Jack Nye Duf­fey, John Herbert, Arthur T. McMan­mon, John V. Moron, James C. Roy, Franklin H. Stuart 

Brainerd. ICnn. 
Chairman: Joseph R. Duim 

Brockton. Mass. 
Chairman: Hugh F. Blunt 

Bufialo. N. Y. 
Chairman: Alfred C. Ryan 

Burlington. Vt 
Chcdnnan: Frederick J. Fayette 

Butte, Mont 
Chairman: Richard C. Monahan 

Cambridge. Mass. 
Chairman: Charles F. Crowley 

Camden. N. T. 
Chairman: Daniel D. Hcdpin 

Canton. Ohio 
Chairman: Charles A. Kolp, Jr. 

Charleston. W. Va. 
Chairman: Joseph T. Neenan 
Committee: Maxwell Hill, Jr., William J. Kenney, Albert H. Kessing, Michael J. O'Cormor, Vincent J. Reishman 

Chattanooga, Tenn. 
Chairman: John W. Terrell 

Cheyenne. Wyo. 
Chairman: James G. Murphy 

Chicago, 111. 
Chairman: Arch B. Ward Co-Choirman: John W. Dorgan Committee: Arthur J. Bidwill, James H. 
Breiman, Britton L Budd, Robert F. Carey, James R. Costin, James R. Cro­nin, Frank Doan, Edward J. Daly, J. Raymond Fox, Edward W. Gould, James P. Harding, Daniel E. Hilgartner, Neil C. Hurley, Jr., Roger J. Kiley, Ray Lorenz, Thomas S. McCabe, James Mc-Cahey, John A." McGuire, Edward J. McLaughlin, Peter F, McShane, Paul Mullaney, Edward J. Quinn, Bartholo­mew O'Toole, Joseph D. Shelly 

Chicopee. Mass. 
Chairman: Raymond P. Snyder 

Cleveland. O. 
Chairman: Norman J. McLeod 

Clinton. Mass. 
Chairman: John F. Burke 

Columbus. Neb. 
Chairman: Lester J. Carrig 

Columbus. O. 
Chairman: Edward G. Cantwell 
Committee: John J. Cannon, John C. Fon­tana, Lawrence H. Halter, ftenry G. Hughes, Carl J. Kegelmayer 

Coming, N. Y. 
Chairman: Peter M. Griffin 

Covington. Ey. 
Chairman: John B. Brinker 

Dallas, Tex. Chairman: Thomas E. Braniff Vice-Chairman: Pat Buell Cormnittee: William J. Brown, Dave Cow-din, Gerald Cullinan, Harold Delaney, Joseph B. Fleming, Walter L Fleming, Ed Haggar, J. M. Haggar, Arthur Hughes, B. F. McLoin, John Moron. Henry Neuhoff, John Neuhoff, J. J. Shea, 
J. W. Simmons, James W. Simmons, Jr., Arthur Simpson, James P. Swift, Joe C. Thompson, Jr. . ' . 

Davenport la. 
Chairman: Jerome C. Arnold Committee: *Alfred T. Erskine, Lawrence 
A. Mullins, Roger W. Nolan, John W. Schwind, Jr., George W. Vander Ven­nett 

Denver. Colo. 
Chcdnnan: Joseph A. Craven Committee: Eugene S. Blish, John H. Humphreys, Daniel Monoghan, Jr., Bart 
W. O-Hora 

Des Moines, Iowa 
Chairman: James C. Shaw 

Detroit Iffich. 
Chairman: Harry F. Kelly 

Dover. N. H. 
Chairman: Thomas H. Keenan Committee: Charles E. Baxter, Stanley 
M. Bums, J. P. Keenan, Daniel F. Mc-Cooey, Melvin Morrison, M. J. Murphy, Emmet F. O'Gora 

Dubuque, Iowa 
Chairman: Thomas B. Schmid 
Duluth. B£nn. 
Chairman: William E. Cotter, Jr. 
Eost Chicago, Ind. 
Chairman: Lester Murphy 
Eou Claire. VHB. 
Chairman: C. Thomas Downs 
Elizabeth. N. J. 
Chairman: James T. Quinn 
Elkhart. Ind. 
Chairman: Robert E. Proctor 
Committee: Ed Armstrong, James D. Ash, William E. Case, Willard H. Chester, William D. Dalton, Anthony DeDario, Francis Ernst, Austin C. Gildea, Thomas V. Hopper, Robert F. Holtz, Matthew Ronzone, Alex F. Sievers, Lin­cohi SoUitt, Leon E. Woodford 
Ebnira, N. Y. 
Chairman: Francis F. O'Brien 
Elyria. O. 
Chairman: Allan W. Fritzsche 
Erie. Po. 
Chairman: George Mead 
Evonsville, Ind. 
Chairman: F. Ralph Heger Committee: Kenneth H. Cassidy, William 
T. Fitzgerald, *Francis J. Henneberger, Robert S. Lamey, F. Wendell Lensing, Philip J. Tompkins 

Fall Biver. Mass. 
Chairman: James H. Coogan 
Flint SGch. 
Chairman: James Pearson 
Fi, Lauderdale. Flo. Chairman: Robert H. Gore, Jr. Committee: Robert Erkins, R. H. Gore, D. Kenneth O'Meara, Fred Stewart, John 
C. Sullivan 

FL Wayne, Ind. 
Chairman: Thomas A. McKieman 
Committee: John Berghoff, Harry G. Ho­gan, Bernard T. Keams, Donnelly P. McDonald, Richard Nill. 
Ft Worth. Tex. 
Chairman: James Record 
Gary. Ind. 
Chairman: C. W. Bader Geaevo, N. Y. Chairman: Clare L. Touhey 
Grand hafidm, tCch. 
Chairman: Joseph F. Deeb 
; \ 

Hamillon, O. Chairman: Marcellus A. Fiehrer 
Hammond, Ind. 
Chairman: Timothy P. Galvin V^' Hannibal, Mo. ' Chairman: William H. Meyer Hairisbiurg, Pa. Chairman: Joseph R. Farrell Committee: Francis C. Barbush, Thomas 
C. Carlagno, John H. Clark, Robert M. Johnston, Robert J. Klaiber, John J. McNeill, Edward C. Smith 

Hartiord, Conn. Chairman: T. J. Murphy, Jr. Co-Chairman: Thomas B. Curry 
Haverhill, Mass. Chairman: Henry G. Armitage Holyoke, Mass. Chairman: Ulric J. Ruell 
Houston. Tex. Chairman: George W. Strake Co-Chairman: R. Conroy Scoggins 
Hyannis, Mass. Chairman: Vincent D. O'Neill Idaho Falls, Idaho Chairman: James M. Brady Indianapolis, Ind. Chairman: Walter J. Stuhldreher 
^ Committee: George A. Bischoff, James D. 
9 Bowen, Nicholas J. Conner, Patrick J. Fisher, Joseph P. Harmon, William L Leppert, Charles E. Mason, William J Mooney, J. Albert Smith 
lackson. Mich. Chairman: Joseph A. Navarre lackson. Miss. Chairman: James T. Canizaro lacksonville, Fla. Chairman: George P. Coyle, Sr. 
Jersey City, N. J. Chairman: George E. Wenz, Jr. Committee: James B. Clark, Donald Du­
gan, Harry O'Mealia 

Johnstown, Pa. Chairman: S. David Solomon Committee: Stephen Conway, William F. 
Friedhoff, George W. Katter, E. E. Slick 

Joliet, m. 
Chairman: William J. Bossingham 
Kalamazoo, Mich. Chairman: Arthur J. MulhoUand, Jr. Committee: S. Anderson, Frank G. Kers­jes, James Mahoney, Robert J. Shields, 
^ John D. Simon 
Kansas City, Mo. Chairman: Henry J. Massman, Jr. Committee: Vincent W. DeCoursey, 
Thomas E. Cakes, Thomas M. Reardon, William Sharp, Joseph R. Stewart, J. 
H. Whitaker 

Kokomo, Ind. Chairman: Mark E. Zimmerer Committee: J. Leo Grace, John Kiley, 
John Krebser, G. L. Rathel, J. L. Sheerin 

Lalayette, Ind. 
Chairman: Charles L. Vaughan 
Committee: D. Emmett Ferguson, Ed­ward L. Keating, Harry J. Laws, Ken­neth F. Laws, Francis J. Murphy, Wil­liam J. Schrader, James E. Vaughan, Francis D. Watson 
Lakeland. Fla. 
Chairman: Joseph E. Keefe LaCrosse, Wise. Chairman: August M. Grams 
LaPorie. Ind. 
^ Chairman: F. Clarence Bunce Lawrence. Mass. 
•Chairman: James R. Dooley . Committee: Stephen A. Boland, John C. Bresnahan, Joseph W. Mahoney, Al­. bert A. Mulreany, James F. Secca­reccio Lexington. Ky. Chairman: Frank J. Quinn 
Lewiston-Aubum. Me. Chairman: Paul Scully, Jr. 
Little Rock, Ark. Chairman: John P. Murphy 
Logansport, Ind. Chairman: James E. Digan Committee: Thomas Medland, Frank 
Shanks, Harold Tuberty 

Lorain. Ohio Chairman: John P. Chapla 
Los Angeles, CaL Chairman: Terence B. Cosgrove Co-Chairman: Leo B. Ward Committee: Thomas R. Ashe, Frank J. 
Breslin, William P. Castleman, Thomas 
A. J. Dockweiler, Michael D. Faiininy, Charles S. Gass, Eugene M. Keimedy, Eugene F. Ling, Joseph E. Madden, John M. Miller, Joseph W. Mullin, Jr., Joseph I. O'Neill, Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fran­cis C. Ott 

Louisville. Ky. Chairman: William P. Kelly Committee: Norvin Lee Casper, Joseph 
F. Donaldson, Charles G. Morrow, Cor­nelius J. Pfeiffer, William A. Reisert, Jr., William J. Woerner 

Lowell. Mass. Chairman: Chester P. McDonald Committee: James B. Coffey, John F. Ken­
ney, John V. McManmon, Daniel J. 
O'Connor, William D. Wood 

Lynchburg. Va. Chairman: Paul M. Morrison Committee: Crist Herring, Albert L. 
Moore, Thomas A. Morrison 

Lynn. Mass. Chairman :DanieI J. Quinlan Committee: Daniel J. Boyle, Edward D. 
Callahan, Francis J. Dancewicz, Thomas J. Whalen Madison, Wise Chairman: Frank H. Sweeney Malone. N. Y. Chairman: Cornelius J. Carey, Jr. Manchester. N. H. Chairman: Francis J. Hand Mandan. N. D. Chairman: William L. Neff Marinette. Wise Chairman: Joseph A. Lauerman Marion. Ohio Chairman: Daniel M. Murphy Melrose. Mass. Chairman: James A. Day Committee: James J. Foxrest, John J. Han­ley, Benjamin C. Pollard, Charles A. Tobin, Paschal Tofuri Memphis, Tonn. Chau-man: Frank W. Howland Committee: Phil Canale, Jr., T. J. Foley, Jr., Dorsey Mathis, John Montedonico, Charles P. J. Mooney, Jr., Lawrence Thompson, Jr. Michigan City, Ind. Chairman: Mark Storen Millord, Mass. Chairman: Wendell T. Phillips Milwaukee. Wise. Chairman: Fred C. Miller Committee: Thomas E. Dixon, Don T. Gottschalk, Frank J. Ladky, Jr., Robert 
Luick, Brian C. McLaughlin, Harold C Watson 

KGaot N. D. 
Chainnan: E. G. DeMots Committee: James A. Clifford, John D. Coughlin, George A. McGee-
ICnnaopolia. ICnn. 
Chcrinnan: Gerald F. Conway 
Molina, HL 
Chairman: John R. Coryn • 
Committee: William F. Bembrock, Jer­ome S. Culligon, 'Alfred T. Erskine. Francis C. King, George A. Uhlmeyer 
Monessen. Pa. 
Chairman: Edward J. Dean 
Committee: A. V. Capano, James Devlin, Thomas J. Kalman, George Martinet, Frank A. Pizzica 
Monroe. IGch. 
Chairman: Thomas E. Griffin 
Muneie, bid. 
Chairman: Thomas A. Cannon 
Muaeoline, Iowa 
Chairman: Robert L. Roach 
Muakegon, ICch. 
Chairman: John F. Frederick Committee: Harry E. Brown, George W. Cannon, Jr., Frank J. Donovan, Francis 
W. Feeney, Joseph T. Riley, Joseph F. Sanford, O. A. Seyferth 

Nashville, Tenn. 
Chairman: Thomas McNicholas 
Newark, N. J. 
Chairman: Joseph M. Byrne, Jr. 
Newaric. O. 
Chairman: Charles A. McGonagle 
New Orleans, La. 
Chairman: William B. Dreux Committee: E. Bolan Burke, Charles E. de la Vergne, Jules K. de Id Vergne, 
•Harold D. Sporl 
Newport B. L •' Chairman: James J. Connell 
New Ulm, liGnii. 
Chairman; Otto J. Seifert 
New York. N. Y. 
Chairman: Frank C. Walker 
Executive Committee: Robert L. Cahill, Jordan Hargrove. John A. Hoyt. Jr., Daniel J. O'Neil, Tiemey A. O'Rourke, George H. Rohrs 
Noriolk, Va. 
Chairman: Robert B. Howland 
Northampton, Moo. 
Chairman: Donald D. Sullivan 
Noire Dame, Ind. 
Chairman: James E. McCarthy 
Committee: Lawrence H. Boldinger, Rev. Joseph Barry, Rev. Henry J. Bolger, Brother Columba Curran, George F. Driscoll, Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, Wal­ter M. Longford, Frank Leahy, Archie 
J. MacAlpin, Clarence Manion, Guy H. McMichael, Rev. Philip Moore. Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, Donald J. Plunkeit, Charles C. Price, Arthur Reyniers, Ronald Rich, Arnold E. Ross, Raymond Schubmehl, Rev. Robert J. Sheehon, Edmund A. Smith, Lcrwrence F. Stau­der, George Wallace 
Ogdenburg. N. Y. 
Chairman: Joseph R. Brandy 
Oklohoma City, Okla. 
Chainnan: Haskell Askew 
Omaha, Neb. 
Chairman: Thomas A. Walsh 
Oswego, N. Y. 
Chairman: Thomas M. McGough 
69 

Polm Beach. Fla. 
Chairman: John R. Butler 
Pateison. N. I. 
Chairman: Richard J. Dericks 
Pawtucket B. L 
Chairman: Leo R. McAloon 
Pembroke. Mass. 
Chairman: Frederick C. Solari, Jr. 
Peoria, ni. 
Chairman: Frank H. Murphy Committee: Daniel J. Hecht, William J. Motsett, Thomas H. Zosky 
Perth Amboy. N. I. 
Chairman: John E. Lisicki 
Philadelphia. Pa. 
Chairman: Daniel H. Young Co-Chairman: Edward J. Lyons Committee: Charles A. Conley, Thomas 
E. Lewis, Austin Meehan, John J. Reilly, Leonard H. Tose 

Phoenix. Ariz. 
Chairman: Robert D. Kendall 
Pittsburgh. Pa. 
Chairman: Leo O'Donnell Committee: Rev. Vincent Brennan, J. 
•i; Vincent Burke, Jr., Robert V. Chamber­
- lain, Bernard W. Conroy, Eugene J. Coyne, John Crimmins, Rudolph C. Cmkovic, James S. Devlin, Hugh Gal­lagher, Hugo A. lacovetti, B. J. Kaiser, George H. Kingsley, Jr., H. Carl Link, Edward C. McHugh, Jr., Paul J. Mc-Ardle, John P. Monteverde, Richard J. O'Doimell, Lawrence J. O'Toole, James Lawrence O'Toole, John W. Patterson, Jr., John B. Reardon, John C. Sheedy, William L. Sixsmith, Leo J. VogeL 
Plymouth. Ind. 
Chairman: Marshall F. Kizer 
Ponca. Neb. 
Chairman: Francis B. Hurley 
Port Arthur. Tex. 
Chairman: Christie C. Flanagan 
Port Huron. Mich. 
Chairman: Clifford O'SuUivan 
Portland, Ore. 
Chairman: Frank J. Lonergan 
Portsmouth. Ohio 
• Chairman: William A. Burke 
Providence, B. I. 
Chairman: Paul D. Hoeffler 
Committee: Nelson G. Burke, T. Russell McGrath," John Mclntyre, *John J. Mc­Laughlin 
Pueblo. Colo. 
Chairman: A. R. Thomas 
Hadne. Wise. 
Chairman: Louis H. Hamilton 
Co-Chairman: H. M. Benstead 
Beno. Nov. 
Chairman: M. A. Diskin 
Richmond. Ind. 
Chairman: Norman B. Jenkins 
Committee: Albert J. Corsi, J. Ross Har­rington, Joseph I. Hoch, Edward J. Huether, Harry G. Kitchin, Augustus 
G. Luken, James R. Luken, Charles M. Quigley, George B. Steins 

Bichmond. Va. 
Chairman: Francis R. Kelley, Jr. 
Committee: Forrest G. Cotton, Walter Hagen, Jr., Charles M. Morrison, Chales R. Riley, Robert Sheppard, Jr., Francis Stumpf 
Bochester. Mirm. 
Chairman: Roy Kingrey 
Bochester. N. Y. 
Chairman: Joseph P. Flynn 
Committee: William R. Bell, Francis Col­lins, Joseph Geraghty, Thomas Meagher, Richard T. Sullivan, Victor Yowmon 
Bockford. III. 
Chairman: Leonard W. Condon 
Committee: Robert Doyle, James Dunn, *Donald A. Hennessy, E. M. Lorden, John McCabe, Harold O'Connor 
Bock Island, 111. 
Chairman: Edmund J. Meagher Committee: William Bernbrock, *Al{red 
T. Erskine, Stephen C. Miller, Myron 
J. Murphy, Vance N. Uhlmeyer 

Butland. Vt. 
Chairman: Lev/is W. Esposito 
Saginaw. Bay City and Owosso. >Gch. 
Chairman: Thomas F. Van Aarle 
SL Joseph. Mo. 
Chairman: Richard W. Snooks 
St Louis. Mo. 
Chairman: Bertrand D. Coughlin 
Committee: Firmin D.. Fusz, Walter A. George, Richard C. Muckerman, Al­bert J. Ravarino, Fred C. Weber, Jr. 
St. PauL Minn. 
Chairman: Robert Rogers 
Salina. Kans. 
Chairman: Norbert F. Skelley 
Committee: John E. Carlin, George W. Cole, Albert McLean, Albert J. Schv/artz, Michael N. Schwarz 
Salt Lake City. Utah 
Chairman: John W. Gallivan 
San Antonio. Texas 
Chairman: William V. Dielmann, Jr. 
Sandusky. O. 
Chairman: Charles M. Mouch Committee: Richard C. Hohler, J. Ed­ward Kennedy, Francis O'Hora, John 
E. Savord, Alfred A. Schnurr 

San Francisco. CaL 
Chairman: Keene P. Fitzpatrick Committee: Don Allen, John W. Carey, Richard J. Fuite 
Schenectady, N. Y. 
Chairman: John J. Huether 
Committee: John A. Holland, John F. Hurley, John A. Loritsch, J. E. O'Lough­lin, E. J. Walsh, J. J. York 
Scranton. Pa. 
Chairman: Hugh L. Campbell, Jr. 
Seattle. Wash. 
Chairman: John P. English 
Committee: John F. Boespflug, Joseph L. Carroll, W. Jerome Kane, James F. Lyons, Charles F. Osbom, Jr., Rob­ert I. Pigott 
Shreveport. La. 
Chairman: Joseph E. McKean 
Sioux Falls. S. D. 
Chairman: Thomas M. Reardon 
South Bend. Ind. 
Chairman: Bernard J. Voll 
Spartanburg. S. C. 
Chairman: John L. Joyce 
Springfield. 111. 
Chairman: John M. Carroll 
Co-Chcdrman: Charles G. Corcoran 
Springfield. Mass. 
Chairman: William J. Granfield 
Committee: William P. Collins, Kieran L., Dunn, Jr., Edward J. Glynn, William A. Hurley, J. Frank Murphy, Raymond P. Snyder 
Springfield, Mo. 
Chairman: John H. Landers 
Springfield, O. 
Chairman: Andrew L. Hellmuth 
Sterling, 111. 
Chairman: Joseph H. Bittorf 
Syracuse, N. Y. 
Chairman: Leo D. Kelley 
Tacoma. Wash. 
Chairman: William J. Ellis 
Committee: Leslie Furlong, Theodore Gaffney, Joseph Manley, Arthur B. Raitano, August Von Boecklin 
Taunton. Mass. 
Chairman: Charles F. Colton 
Terre Haute, Ind. 
Chairman: Louis F. Keifer Committee: Frederick G. Christman, Jr., Raymond J. Kearns 
Tiffin. O. 
Chairman: Fred J. Wagner 
Tucson. Ariz. 
Chairman: James M. Murphy 
Committee: Elmer Beston, Paul Dufaud, Charles J. Kennedy, Chris A. Reilly, Frank L.-Roy, Ted W. Witz 
Tulsa, Okla. 
Chairman: Walter B. Moran 
Utica, N. Y. 
Chairman: A. Charles Hitzelberger 
Troy. N. Y. 
Chairman: Thomas V. DoUard 
Trenton, N. J. 
Chairman: Peter J. Morgan, Jr. 
Vicksburg, Miss. 
Chairman: Lawrence H. Hennessy 
Vincennes. Ind. 
Chairman: James D. McQuaid 
Committee: Frank Bergman, Frank Con­rad, Rene Dognaux, Richard Dora, *Francis J. Henneberger, C. L. Kelso, Ralph H. Simon 
Warren. O. 
Chairman: Paul A. Guamieri 
Waseca, Wim. 
Chairman: Daniel M. Coughlin 
Washington, D. C. 
Chairman: Leo F. MuUin Honorary Chairman: Albert F. Zahm Co-Chairmen: James A. Flynn, Paul 
Mallon 
Committee: Robert W. Cavanaugh, Dan­iel Culhane, Joseph R. Gorman, Wil­liam C. Karl, James J. Kearney, Miles QuaU 
Waterbury. Conn. 
Chairman: William J. Andres 
Wheeling. W. Va. and BeUaire, O. 
Chairman: Louis J. Yaeger, Jr. 
Whiting, Ind. Chairman: Ray Schaub Co-Chairman: James J. Glenn Committee: Austin Boyle, George W. Homett, Jeremiah McCarthy, Peter C. Smidt 
Mtnimington. DcL Chairman: Donald B. Killian Committee: William D. Bailey, Arthur A. Baum, Thomas E. Dillon 
Woonsocket. B. L 
Chairman: John J. McLaughlin 
Committee: Fred J. Greene, Russell L. Hunt, Aram P. Jarrett, Daniel Keefe, Frank J. Surprenant 
Worcester, Mass. 
Chairman: Edward J. McGouley 
Yoimgstovni. O. 
Chcdrmon: Charles B. Cushwa, Jr. 
Zanesrille, O. 
Chairman: T. Vincent Mclntire 
Note: * Indicates that a Club President is included in more than one Committee. 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C , '23 President of the University and Director of the Foundation Harry G. Hogan, '04 Chairman of the Board of Governors James E. Armstrong, '25 Vice-Chairman of the Board of Governors 
State and Foreign Governors  
ALABAMA: Raymond E. Faherty, '24  MISSISSIPPI: Lawrence H. Hennessy, '27  VIROINIA: Anselm D. Miller, '25  
ARIZONA: William P. Mahoney, '39  MISSOURI: Joseph B. McGlynn, '12  WASHINGTON: Enmiett G. Lcnihan, '17  
ARKANSAS: Matthew H. Rothert, '24  MONTANA: Dr. Richard C. Monahan, '98  WEST VIRGINIA: Arthur P. Hudson, '95  
CALIFORNIA: Thomas H. Hearn, '15  NEBR,\SKA: Gerald J. McGinley, '26  WISCONSIN: Robert L. Hamilton, '34  
COLORADO: Robert A. Dick, '29  NEVADA: E . P. Carville, '09  WYOMING: Thomas G. Kassis, '31  
CONNECTICUT: John T. Cullinan, '28  NEW HAMPSHIRE: Maxine Gauthier, '29  ARGENTINA AND URUGUAY: Charles H. Litty,  
DELAWARE: M . Harry Miller, '10  NEW JERSEY: Raymond A; Geiger, '32  '34  
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: Leo F. MuUin, '11  NEW MEXICO: Anton R. Hebenstreit, 'U  BoLiviv: Harry E. Kennedy, '31  
FLORIDA: Lester Foley,,'24  NEW YORK: E. A. Berkery, '27  BRAZIL: Arthur L. Denchfield, Jr., '29  
GEORGIA: Michael F. Wiedl, '24  NORTH CAROLINA: Edward J. Koontz, '32  CANADA: Frank J. Shaughnessy, '06  
IDAHO : Thomas J. Jones, Jr., '29  NORTH DAKOTA: William L. Neff, '29  CANAL ZONE: Joseph H. Harrington, '39  
ILLINOIS: John E. Cassidy, '17  OHIO: Hugh M. O'Neill, '17  CHILE: Enrique Rossclot, '20  
INDIANA: J. Arthur Haley, '26  OKLAHOMA: Joseph A. Moran, '32  COLOMBIA: Luis C . Bustamente, '22  
IOWA: Henry C. Wur2er, '25  OREGON: William C. Schmitt.. '10  CUBA: C . C; Fitzgerald, '94  
KANSAS: Daniel J. Welchons, '30  PENNSYLVANIA: John F. McMahon, '28  PERU: John J. Kinsella, '34  
KENTUCKY: Frank B. Blocmer, '22  RHODE ISLAND:' John F. McKiemaii, '34  PUERTO RICO: Paul F. McManus, '34  
LOUISIANA: Arthur R. Carmody, '15  SOUTH CAROLINA: John L. Joyce, '41  TERIUTORY OF HAWAII: Thomas W. Flynn, '35  
MAINE: John U. Riley, '17  SOUTH DAKOTA: T . C. Kasper, '21  ACCOUNTING COUNSEL: Francis J. Dwyer  
MARYLAND: E . Bradley Bailey, '22  TENNESSEE: Galvin Hudson, '15  LEGAL COUNSEL: Clarence E. Manion, '22  
MASSACHUSETTS: John F. Saunders, '31  TEXAS : James P. Swift, '24  STAFF PROJECT DIRECTOR: John N. Cacklcy,  
MICHIGAN: John E. Moore, '11  UTAH : Philip J. Purcell, '35  Jr., '37  
MINNESOTA: Dr. John M. CuUigan, '15  VERSIONT: Edward G. McClallen, '31  STAFF STATISTICIAN: Herman A. Zitt, '48  

The Board of Directors of the Alumni Association 
Harry G. Hogan, '04, Fort Wayne, Indiana President Thomas F. Byrne, '28, Cleveland Heights, Ohio Honorary President 
Francis Wallace, '23, Bellaire, Ohio First Vice-President Robert T. Hellrung, '30, St. Louis, Missouri ^Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, South Bend, Indiana Secretary William R. Dooley, '26, South Bend, Indiana —Assistant Secretary 
Joseph M. Boland, '27, South Bend, Ind. .'\rthur D. Cronin, Jr., '37, Detroit, Mich. Paul R. Mallon, '23, Washington, D. C. Rev. Vincent P. Brennan, '32, Pittsburgh, Pa. Harold E. Duke, '30, Philadelphia, Pa. Daniel J. CNeU, '25, New York, N. Y. Louis F. Buckley, '28, Cleveland, Ohio John J. Elder, '30, Chicago, 111. Leo B. Ward, '20, Los Angeles, Calif. 
The University of Notre Dame Administration 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C —President Rev. John H. Murphy, C. S. C Vice-President 
Rev. Howard Kenna, C. S. C , Director of Studies Rev. B. J. Furstoss, C. S. C , Supervisor of Maintenance 
Rev. William Cunningham, C. S. C , Director of Faculty Brother Albinus Butler, C. S. C , Cashier 
Rev. John J. Burke, C. S. C , Business Manager Mr. J. .Arthur Haley, Director of Public Relations 
Rev. Joseph Kehoe, C. S. C , Prefect of Discipline Mr. James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary 
Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C. S. C , Exec. Assistant to President Mr. William J. Broderick, Comptroller 
Rev. Louis Thornton, C. S. C , Registrar Mr. Francis J. Div>er, Auditor 
Rev. William Craddick, C. S. C , Prefect of Religion Mr. John V. Hinkel, Director of Department of Public Information 
Rev. John J. Reddington, C. S. C , Purchasing Agent Mr. Edward J. Murray, Director of Student Accounts Rev. John J. Lane, C. S. C , Assistant Director of Studies 
The Associate Board of Lay Trustees 
Mr. Ernest M. Morris, '06, South Bend, Indiana President Mr. I. A. O'Shaughnessy, St. Paul, Minnesota — Vice-President Mr. Thomas H. Beacom, Jr., '20, Chicago, Illinois -Treasurer 
Mr. William J. Broderick, Notre Dame, Indiana Assistant Treasurer 
Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Chicago, III. Mr. Frank C. Walker, '09, New York, N. Y. Mr. Charles Fisher, Detroit, Mich. Mr. Terence B. Cosgrove, '06, Los Angeles, Mr. Bernard J. VoU, '17, South Bend, Ind. Hon. Joseph P. Kennedy, New York, N. Y. Calif Mr. Joseph M. Byrne, '15, Newark, N. J. p^, Constantine E. McGuire, Washington, D. C. Mr. Walter J. Duncan, '12, LaSalle, Ilh Mr. Timothy P. Galvin,'16 Hammond, Ind. ^^ ^^^ ^_ ^ 
Mr. Joseph A. LaFortune, '16, Tulsa, Okla. Mr. C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis. •' " , ,, ' ^ Mr. John P. Murphy, '12, Cleveland, O. Mr. William J. Corbett, Chicago, 111. Mr. George W. Strake, Houston, Texas Mr. JohnC. Tully,'11, LaGrange, 111. Mr. Edward J. Doyle, Chicago, lU. Mr. Peter C. Reilly, Indianapolis, Ind. 
{The Provincial, President of the University, Vice-President and Business Manager are ex-officio members) 
The University of Notre Dame Foundation Proudly Points to the Annual Alumni Funds: 
1941-1943 The Centenary Fund*1944 The Second Fundtl945 The Third Fund1946 The Fourth Fund1947 The Fitth Fund  ;  3,462 Alumni gave $107,424.13  3,313 Alumni gave 111,342.07 . 3,096 Alumni gave 94,345.27  5,702 Alumni gave 276,988.81 J  7,887 Alumni gave 346,013.72§  
TOTAL ALUMNI GIFTS SINCE 1941  $936,114.00  
* Actually a 17-manth recordt First I2-nianlli, calendar year Fund  X Indudes a single Alumnus gift of $100,000 § Includes a single Alumnus gift of $100,000  

SUPPLEMENT TQ APRIL. 1948, ISSUE OF THE UaTRE DAME ALUMNUS. VOL. Z&, NO. Z 
s^yssM'^^tM'. 
I«l 

anil (iiiiili 
«> 
A 
fv* 
tjv.; .v-*! 

Seplemlin'. V\\\. Is.yc 
e^ 
s^i 
'^^^^. 
I ^ . V 

JL^-ri-u: V£ ^ 
THE UNIVERSITY OF IVttTRE RAMB F«IJNRATI«Iir 

SUPPLEMENT TO THE SEPTEMBER, 1948. ISSUE OF THE NOTRE OAME ALUMNUS.-VOL. 26, 
NMIIiL MD GHDE -1^ 
Septetmhsr, IMS, laame 
INDEX 

1941-1948 SIFT RECORD ^ . . . • ^ 
Gifts to Notre Dame by Alumni and Friends from 1941 through July 10, 1948. 
1948 TAX TABLE . . • • * 
Net cost, after tax deductions, of individual gifts to Notre Dame. 
FOREWORD • • • • . • 5 
An introductory word on 1948 Alumni and Non-Alumni giving (first^six months). 
NEEDS OF NOTRE DAME 6 
Two specific needs stressed by Father Cavanaugh. 
THE JOB OF THE CITY COMMinEE 7 
Analysis of job, organization and procedure for City Committeemen. 
MASTER TABLE . . 8-12 
Contributions to The University of Notre Dame Foundation by States, Chairman Cities, and Non-Chairman Cities. The table includes Alumni population, number of givers, number yet to give, number giving in 1947, percentages, etc. 
RECAPITULATION AND SUPPLEMENT TO MASTER TABLE .; . 13-14 
100% Alumni-participation Cities, 70% Alumni-participation Chairman Cities, Chairman Cities which already have reached or exceeded their Non-Alumni quotas. Alumni record in 44 "key" Chairman Cities and other valuable statistical analyses. 
INSURANCE AND CORPORATE 6IVIN6 COMMIHEES 14 
1948 FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTORS—GEOGRAPHICAL IS ^ 
An alphabetical listing, by States and Cities, of 1948 Contributors to The Foundation—and a group of photographs of some City Chairmen. Photographs of additional City Chairmen will appear in subsequent issues. 
BEQUEST AND LIVING TRUST COMMITTEE 41 
A word on recent progress, and a list of Committees to date. _^ ^ 
CITY CHAIRMEN AND COMMIHEEMEN .. . 42 ^ An alphabetical listing of Foundation City Chairmen, Co-Chairmenand Committeemen— by Cities. '_ 
FOUNDATION STAFF AND GOVERNORS, ALUMNI BOARD AND UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION AND TRUSTEES
 47 

Gifts to Notre Datne by Aiutmmi mmd Other Friemds 
1941 • 194t 

ALUMN I  FRIEnrB S  
Number  Amount  Number  Am.ount  
1941 ] 1942 \ 1943 J 1944 1945 1946 1947 1948 (July 10th)  ... .  3,462 3,313 3,096 5,885 7,887 5,658  $ 107,424.00 111,342.00 94,345.00 276,989.00 346,013.00 120,513.42  .  24 58 126 98 84 262 203 321  $ 22,868.00 144,276.00 70,010.00 59,916.00 186,783.00 254,612.00 205,490.00 50,927.10  
TOTALS  29,301  $1,056,626.42  1,176  $994,882.10  

Alumni and other friends have made 30,477 gifts amount­ing to $2,051,508.52 from 1941 through July 10, 1948. 
Let's Keep it Up! 

I94 t TAX TABLE 
Net Cost to Donor of a Gift in the amount of: Net Taxable Income $200 $400 $600 $800 $1,000 $1,600 $2,000 $5,000 $10,000 $20,000 
SEPARATE RETURN $ 2,000 to $ 4,000 
$161.28 $322.56 4,000 to 6,000 154.24 308.48 $462.72 6,000 to 8,000 147.20 294.40 441.60 $588.80 8,000 to 10,000 140.16 280.32 420.48 560.64 $700.80 
14,000 to 16,000 117.28 234.56 351.84 469.12 586.40 $ 938.24 18,000 to 20,000 106.72 213.44 320.16 426.88 533.60 853.76 $1,067.20 44,000 to 50,000 73.28 146.56 219.84 293.12 366.40 586.24 732.80 $1,832.00 90,000 to 100,000 46.88 93.76 140.64 187.52 234.40 375.04 468.80 1,172.00 $2,344.00 
150,000 to 200,000 37.55 75.10 112.65 150.20 187.75 300.40 375.50 938.75 1,877.50 $3,755.00 
JOINT RETURN $ 400 to $ 4,000 . . . $166.80 $333.60 4,000 to 6,000 . . . 161.28 322.56 $483.84 6,000 to 8,000 . . . 161.28 322.56 483.84 $645.12 8,000 to 10,000 . . . 154.24 308.48 462.72 616.96 $771.20 12,000 to 16,000 . . . 147.20 294.40 441.60 588.80 736.00 $1,177.60 16,000 to 20,000 . . . 140.16 280.32 420.48 560.64 700.80 1,121.28 $1,401.60 44,000 to 50,000 . . . 96.16 192.32 288.48 384.64 480.80 769.28 961.60 $2,404.00 88,000 to 100,000 . . 73.28 146.56 219.84 293.12 366.40 586.24 732.80 1,832.00 $3,664.00 180,000 to 200,000 . . . 46.88 93.76 140.64 187.52 234.40 375.04 468.80 1,172.00 2,344.00 $4,688.00 
Tax rates as publis hed by Commerce Clearing House, Ina, under the Revenue Act of 1948. 
Personal gifts up to 15 per cent of taxable gross income are deductible for Federal Income Tax purposes. The local committees or the University of Notre Dame Foundation will be pleased to answer any inquiries and give assistance and advice to anyone having a particular tax problem. 
. 4 . 
Forewori 

1948 GIVING TO DATE 
The ateaiBi rmemriior the first six months of 1948 is certainly a gratifying one. Already 72% of the 7,887 alumni contributors of last year have contributed in 1948. Of the 5,658 aliunni contributors in 1948, 25% -are new donors—alumni who 'did not contribute at all in 1947, 
StUl another 27% have increased their contribution this year over last year. 
With 7,500 alumni who have not contributed yet this year, there is more than 
just a possibility that last year's record of 7,887 alumni contributors will falL 
Tfee •••-•teMai reemri in'1948 is also one of great accomplishment. • The record of 318 friend contributors already in 1948, as compared to 203 for the entire year of 1947, speaks for itself. 
Needless to say, we have but scratched the surface of the great number of loyal friends of Notre Dame. Thousands of new friends have been suggested by the City Committees and Alimini. These friends have already received the first issue of Notre Dame, and have been placed on our mailing list for subsequent issues of Notre Dame and The Substance of Things Hoped For—a guide for benefactors of the University of Notre Dame (will be ready for distribution at the end of September). 
The list of donors, pages 15 to 40, is submitted to express again the appPidation of the University of Notre Dame to its many loyal alumni and friends. City totals will be foimd in the Master Table, pages 8 to 12. . 
Heeds of Notre Du e 
Bg the Kec. ^•fea S. C«r«M«Bsb, C.S.C. President, University of Notre Bame Director, University of Notre Dame Foundation 
The following specific needs of The University were stressed by Father Cavanaugh 
in an address delivered at the Alunuii Dinner, June 5,1948, in the Campus Dining 
HaU: 

"There are many drastic, specific needs here at Notre Dame, as you know. "One of them that can be met only by the immediate help of alumni, and friends whom you can induce to help Notre Detme, is this: (fee pr»vi»tmm •# MeMP mpmce aui taeilitiea IT hmth ear ileii«r(aieB(« ml ChmmUtrg «a 4 Ffeffaies. "Laboratory space is inadequate. Space for research is hopelessly limited. Equipment amoimting to hundreds of thousands of dollars housed in old Science Hall is in grave danger of destruction by fire. It is bur intention to construct ade­quate facilities for the work in chemistry and physics as soon as the contributions of alumni and friends make it possible. "I am utterly confident that Notre Dame can rely upon help from her alumni. I believe that in this emergency the alumni will be willing to solicit help from their non-alumni friends. 
"There is another drastic need which I should like to mention—a need which directly concerns the alumni, the parents of students, and friends of The University. 
"We have no housing facilities to take care of returning alumni and friends. I believe that this need can reasonably be called urgent. At present there is no place where the alumni may stay together on the campus or where the students may take their parents or visiting guests for comfortable dining facilities. 
''A auest hom»e . . . m X»ire Bmme INK .. . would meet such needs. We have already had preliminary plans drawn. We are very anxious to begin con­struction on such a guest house; but, again, we cannot actually start until we get help from alumni and friends." 
Tie Job 0f the City Cnijttee 
THE CITY COMMITTEE IS THE ««F01JNHATI*Iir'S F«VNHATI«Iir>' 
We cannot repeat too often that the effectiveness of the Foundation's plan depends upon the ability and activity of each City Committee. The chairman of a City Committee and his committee members constitute the "guiding spirit" of the entire operation. The sum total of all City Committee efforts will determine the future position of The University of Notre Dame. It is a challenge... it is a great responsibility. 
The following outline was prepared to give suggestions as to methods in the attainment of maximum results. It is not intended to be dictum, for ultimate results will depend largely on the spontaneity of each committee member. Never­theless, the suggestions made are worthy of Cciref ul and sympathetic study. What­ever plan you adopt, ultimately, should receive your best efforts and enthusiasm. 
STEP I Analyze Your Job 
Organization—niunber of graduates, non-graduates 
and friends of the University. 

STEP II Plan Your Organization. List of objectives—number of personnel needed. 
STEP m Plan and Prepare Your Procedure 
While building your organization, plan and outline 
the procedure you expect to follow. 

STEP IV The Job 
A. Review the list of Alumni—note the amount sub­scribed by each. 
B. Review the list of former students. IMPORTANT NOTE: The cooperation of Local Clubs should be enlisted by City Committees—the club may consider making contacts with all graduates and non-graduates. 
C. Review the list of "Friends of The University." The Notre Dame magazine for friends of the University has just been mailed to all alumni, parents and other friends. 
D. A list of "friends" should be submitted as prospects by the local committees, so that they, too, may re­ceive the Notre Dame magazine. 
STEPV Keporting All remittances should be sent by the City Committee or donor directly to "The University of Notre Dame Foundation, Main Building, Notre Dame, Indiana." A receipt will be sent to each donor by the President of The University. 
STEP VI Summary In Review 
1.
 Make your Committee representative. 

2.
 Choose and enlist your personnel. 

3.
 Brief your personneL 

4.
 Make full use of all educational materiaL 

5.
 See individually each person to be called upon. (There is no substitute for personal contacts.) 

6.
 Set a high standard. 

7.
 Report progress. 


8.
 Follow through until the job is done. 


HisterTible 

RetleetiHg Gilt* hg illaMMi mud Friemdm m Stmwmrw i *• '«<V !•» 1940 
AL V ]»i%n  FKIEHrS S  
Number.  Number  Number  Number  Number  
i^umher  Giving  No. In •4S  Yet To Go  Gicing In'47  Goal Giving In '48  Yet To  Go  

ALABAMA  
Birmingham  100  
ARIZONA  
Phoenix Tucson  23 21  14 21  61 100  14 5  11 10  10 10  
ARKANSAS  
Little Rock  22  
CALIFORNIA  
Los Angeles San Francisco  304 119  198 59  65 50  106 60  142 57  152 59  20 2  132 57  
COLORADO  
Colorado Springs Denver Pueblo Trinidad  7 78 3 5  2 36 — 1  30 46 0 20  S 42 3 4  1 47 2 I  3 39 1 2  3 39 1 2  
CONNECTICUT  
Hartford Waterbury  81 22  35 12  43 55  46 10  37 10  40 11  38 11  
DELAWARE  
Wilmington  24  10  42  14  12  12  12  
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA  
Washington  172  75  44  97  89  86  84  
FLORIDA  
F t Lauderdale Jacksonville Lakeland Miami Palm Beach  6 12 3 25 7  5 4 2 8  83 33 67 32 0  1 8 1 17 7  6 8 2 15 4  3 6 1 12 3  3 6 1 12 1  
GEORGIA  
Atlanta  10  20  
IDAHO  
Boise Idaho Falls  2 1  29 14  3 3  3 3  
ILLINOIS  
Chicago Joliet Moline Peoria Rockford Rock Island SterlingSpringfield  .  1,524 36 9 96 70 10 13 64  638 22 3 45 31 5 9 28  42 61 33 47 44 50 70 44  14 6 51 39 5 4 36  929 24 2 62 39 6 10 37  762 18 4 48 35 5 6 32  25  737 18 4 46 34 5 5 32  
INDIANA  
Anderson Bedford East Chicago Elkhart Evansville Fort Wayne Gary Hammond Indianapolis Kokomo Lafayette LaPorte LogansportMichigan CityMuncie  , ,  15 7 12 22 31 136 41 26 268 10 16 17 12 29 14  2 4 6 7 20 82 19 15 157 9 6 4 4 12 11  13 57 50 32 65 60 46 58 59 90 38 24 33 41 79  13 3 6 15 11 54 22 U 111 1 10 13 8 17 3  7 3 7 14 25 94 22 17 195 9 11 8 7 16 12  7 3 6 11 15 68 20 13 134 5 8 8 6 14 7  7 3 6 9 15 59 20 13 131 3 8 8 6 14 7  

INDIANA (Continued) Notre Dame Plymouth Richmond South Bend Terre Haute Vincennes Whiting 
IOWA Davenport Des Moines Dubuque Muscatine 
KANSAS Salina . . . : 
KENTUCKY Covington Lexington Louisville 
LOUISIANA New Orleans Shreveport 
MAINE Augusta Lewiston-Aubum 
MARYLAND Baltimore 
MASSACHUSETTS Arlington Belmont Boston Brockton Cambridge Chicopee Clinton Fall River Haverhill • • Holyoke Hyannis Lawrence Lowell Lynn Melrose Milford Northampton Pembroke Springfield Taunton Worcester ; . 
MICHIGAN Battle Creek Detroit : Flint Grand Rapids Jackson • ­Kalamazoo Monroe Muskegon Niles, St. Joe and Benton Harbor Port Huron Saginaw, Bay City and Owosso. 
MINNESOTA 
Brainerd Duluth and Superior, Wis Hibbing Minneapolis 

itLVMN I  VKIBIVBS  
Number  Number  itTamber  Number  Winnber  
Number  Giving  No. In •4S  Yet To Go  Gioiao I«' «  Coal Civtm;  In 'M  YetTo Go  
61  31  51  30  50  30  27  
9  5  56  4  7  4  4  
11  9  82  2  5  5  16  
734  370  50  364  600  367  14  353  
8  6  75  2  6  4  4  
9 15  8 9  89 60  1 6  7 9  4 7  4 7  
20  14  70  6  15  10  10  
24  15  63  9  19  12  11  
35  12  34  23  19  17  17  
6  6  100  4  3  ' 2  
100  
4  2  50  2  1  2  2  
11  3  27  8  9  5  4  
102  49  48  53  70  51  45  
30  15  50  IS  20  15  10  
11  0  11  S  5  5  
0  1  1  
50  —  1  
48  20  42  28  33  24  24  
2  50  1  1  1  1  
2  0  2  1  1  1  
15  40  9  10  7  6  
10  10  9  3  5  ' 4  
15  13  13  4  7  7  
4  75  1  2  2  2  
4  0  4  3  2  2  
7  14  6  4  3  3  
2  100  1  1  1  
12  33  8  6  6  
2  100  1  I  1  
5  40  3  2  2  1  
13  15  II  4  6  6  
13  31  9  6  6  6  
11  9  10  9  5  5  
9  22  7  8  4  4  
7  14  6  3  3  3  
2  0  2  1  1  1  
33  15  28  16  16  15  
3  33  2  4  1  1  
15  20  12  7  7  7  
14  4  29  10  8  7  7  
370  179  48  191  185  185  176  
25  13  52  12  14  12  8  
85  28  33  57  55  42  42  
13  7  54  6  12  6  6  
13  8  62  5  11  6  6  
13  6  46  7  9  6  6  
20  14  70  6  15  10  8  
48  19  40  29  28  24  20  
18  10  55  8  11  9  9  
44  26  59  18  31  22  22  
1  1  100  1  1  1  
21  4  19  17  5  10  10  
8  1  13  7  6  4  4  
72  32  44  40  35  36  36  

ALVMBTI  FIIIENV S  
Number  Number  Number  Number  Number  
Giving  No.  In  Yet To  Giving  Giving  Yet  To  
Number  In ••IS  ••48  Go  ln'47  Caal  Jn -48  Go  

MINNESOTA (Continued) New Ulm Rochester St. Paul Waseca 
MISSISSIPPI Jackson Vicksburg 
MISSOURI Hannibal Kansas City St. Joseph St. Louis Springfield 
MONTANA Butte 
NEBRASKA Aurora Columbus Lincoln Ponca 
NEVADA Reno 
NEW HAMPSHIRE Dover Manchester 
NEW JERSEY Asbury Park Camden Elizabeth Jersey City Newark Paterson Perth Amboy Trenton 
NEW MEXICO Albuquerque 
NEW YORK Albany Auburn Batavia Binghamton Buflfalo Coming Elmira Geneva Malone New York City Ogdensburg Oswego Rochester Schenectady Syracuse Troy UtJca 
NORTH CAROLINA Asheville 
NORTH DAKOTA 
Devils Lake 
Fargo 
Jamestown 
Mnnf^y^yi 
Blinot 
Mott 

1  0  1  2  1  
11  3  27  8  3  5  
48  15  31  33  26  24  
2  1  50  1  2  1  
17  
25  
3  1  33  2  4  1  
108  59  55  49  64  54  
4  2  50  2  2  2  
221  134  60  87  131  110  
6  3  50  3  3  3  
15  20  12  
1  50  1  
1  100  
3  50  3  
1  100  
25  
33  2  3  1  1  
75  1  3  2  13  
16  4  25  12  8  8  
26  12  46  14  11  13  —  
59  14  24  45  29  29  —  
74  17  23  57  27  37  —  
201  69  34  132  109  100  3  
86  20  23  66  42  43  1  
24  8  33  16  8  12  —  
19  11  58  8  12  9  —  
50  
28  12  43  16  13  14  
26  9  35  17  16  13  
8  3  38  5  5  4  
25  5  20  20  14  12  
176  78  44  98  126  88  
8  5  63  3  4  4  
6  4  67  2  4  3  
12  6  50  6  6  6  
8  3  38  5  3  4  
1,081  292  27  789  418  540  11  
3  1  33  2  2  1  
7  1  14  6  4  3  
146  57  39  89  85  73  7  
28  14  50  14  16  14  
51  20  40  31  34  25  
8  2  25  6  3  4  
21  7  33  14  10  10  
50  
1  100  0  1  
1  25  3  2  
1  100  1  1  
2  67  2  1  
3  75  2  2  
1  100  1  1  

5 23 1 
54 2 106 3 
8 13 29 37 97 42 12 9 
14 
13 4 12 88 4 3 6 4 529 1 3 66 14 25 3 10 
• 10 

A 1.1; M N I  FmiBlVSS .  
Number  Number  Number  Number  Number  
Number  Giving In-48  No. In '48  Yet To Go  Giving In '^T  Goal Giving In '4S  Yet To Go  
OHIO  
Akron  77  35  45  42  52  37  
Ashtabula  6  1  17  5  4  3  3  
Canton  49  28  57  21  27  24  24  
Cincinnati  108  55  51  53  62  54  S3  
Cleveland  299  115  39  184  219  149  147  
Columbus  59  33  56  26  38  29  27  
Elyria Hamilton  8 19  1 14  13 74  7 5  6 10  4 9  4 7  
Lorain  12  7  58  5  8  6  5  
Marion  I .  6  2  33  4  4  3  3  
Newark  5  3  60  2  4  2  2  
Portsmoutli  7  3  43  4  3  3  3  
Sandusky Springfield Tiffin  33 14 14  21 3 8  64 21 57  12 11 6  22 9 8  16 7 7  16 7 7  
Warren  9  5  56  4  6  4  1  
YoungstownZanesville   . . . .  68 9  35 3  51 33  33 6  49 5  34 4  34 4  
OKLAHOMA  
Oklaiioma City . . .  13  5  46  8  7  6  5  
Tulsa  49  20  41  29  32  24  23  
OREGON  
Portland  54  13  24  41  20  27  20  
PENNSYLVANIA  
Allentown  8  4  50  4  8  4  11  •  —  
Erie  42  25  60  17  33  21  —  21  
Harrisburg Johnstown  36 28  29 12  81 43  7 16  20 17  18 14  1 —  17 14  
Monessen  24  6  25  18  15  12  —  12  
PhiladelphiaPittsburgh Scranton  ... .  131 132 38  63 66 11  48 50 30  68 66 27  77 77 24  65 66 19  9 3 1  56 63 18  
Wilkes-Barre  ... .  14  4  30  10  5  7  —  .  ­7  
Williamsport  ... .  12  9  75  3  4  6  ~  6  
RHODE ISLAND  
Newport Pawtucket  6 8  2 3  33 38  4 5  2 6  3 4  —  3 4  
Providence  12  7  58  5  5  6  1  5  
Woonsocket  7  1  14  6  2  3  —  3  
SOUTH CAROLINA  
Spartanburg  ... .  50  
SOUTH DAKOTA  
Aberdeen  1  100  1  1  
Sioux Falls  4  67  4  3  
TENNESSEE  
ChattanoogaMemphis Nashville  ... .  4 53 14  1 28 8  25 53 57  3 25 6  3 29 11  2 26 7  2 25 6  
TEXAS  
Beaumont  9  6  67  3  7  4  4  
Dallas  50  18  36  32  43  2S  •19  
El Paso  14  9  64  5  6  7  7  
Fort Worth  9  4  44  5  6  4  3  
Houston  41  17  41  24  30  20  20  
Port Arthur  7  3  43  4  4  3  3  
San Antonio  . . ; .  12  3  25  9  7  6  6  
UTAH  
Salt Lake City . . .  67  
VERMONT  
Burlington Rutland  57 11  

11 

ALVMN I  wniKVims  
Number  Number Giving In-48  No. In •48 •  Number Yet To Go  Number Giving In' «  Goal  Number Giving In'48  Number Yet To Go  
VIRGINIA  5 17  2 7  40 41  3 10  4 9  2 8  2 8  
WASHINGTON  28 6  12 3  43 50  16 3  13 5  14 3  1  13 3  
WEST VmGINIA  25 6 21  13 3 11  52 50 52  12 3 10  21 3 19  12 3 10  3  9 3 10  
WISCONSIN Rhinelander  7 5 22 20 9 144 7 20 4 7  1 3 14 6 6 71 2 11 1  14 60 64 30 67 49 30 55 25 0  6 2 8 14 3 73 5 9 3 7  6 5 18 16 4 86 4 12 1 7  3 2 11 10 4 72 3 10 2 4  8 2  3 2 11 10 4 64 3 8 2 4  
WYOMING  5  3  60  2  3  2  19  
MEXICO  17  1  6  16  4  8  8  
Total—223 Chairman Cities Total—Non-Chairman Cities  10,182 3,000  4,465 1,193  44% 40%  5,717 1,807  6,024 1,863  5,049 1,500  278 40  4,817 1,460  
GHAND TOTAL  13,182  5,658  43%  7,524  7,887  6,549  318  6,277  
LET'S KEEP IMPROVI]¥G! Comparative Amatfi»is • Aiumtmi «»i l Frieuda'  GUts  
1941  .  194S  
ALUMNI Number Amount 1941 "I 1942 I 3,462 $ 107,424.00 1943 J 1944 3,313 111,342.00 1945 3,096 94,345.00 1946 5,885 276,989.00 1947 7,887 346,013.00 1948 (Through July 10) .... 5,658 120,513.42  FRIENDS Number Amount 24 $ 22,868.00 58 144,276.00 126 70,010.00 98 59,916.00 84 186,783.00 262 254,612.00 203 205,490.00 321 50,927.10  
TOTALS  29,301  $1,056,626.42  1,176  $994,882.10  
Alumni and other friends have made 30,477 gifts amounting to $2,051,508.52 from 1941 through July 10,1948. j  
LET' S  KEE P  I T  ITF I  

12 

Reoipitilitiei iii Sippleieit ti tie MisferTkUe 
TJke Mmater T«Me ler t04m (Jmrnmrnrg 1 «• iVa«e 3«J melleetm the VmUewtrnft 
Number Amount Alumni Gifts from 223 Chairman Cities . . 4,465 Alumni Gifts from Non-Chairman Cities . 1,193 
TOTAL 5,658 $120,513.42 Friends' Gifts from 223 Chairman Cities .. . 278 Friends' Gifts from Non-Chairman Cities . . 40 
TOTAL 318 $ 50,927.10 
GRAND TOTAL—Alumni and Friends Gifts . . 5,976 $171,44052 
i0»Vo Almmmi FmrtielpmtUm Citlet 
The following 13 cities already have achieved 100% almnni participation in 1948: 
Aberdeen, South Dakota Jamestown, North Dakota 
Birmingham, Alabama Mott, North Dakota 
Brainerd, Minnesota Muscatine, Iowa 
Columbus, Nebraska Ponca, Nebraska 
Devils Lake, North'Dakota Salina, Kansas 

Haverhill, Massachusetts Tucson, Arizona 
Hyannis, Massachusetts 

Chmlrmmu Cittern wUh 79Vo mr Mere ^AlaaiBi Fmrtietpmtiem The following 15 cities have 70% or more of their alumni already contributing to the 1948 Foundation Fund: 
Kokomo, Indiana 90% Minot, North Dakota . . . 75% Vincennes, Indiana ... . 89 Terre Haute, Indiana .. . 75 Ft. Lauderdale, Florida . 83 Williamsport, Pa 75 Richmond, Indiana ... . 82 Hamilton, Ohio 74 Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 81 Davenport, Iowa .70 Muncie, Indiana 79 Muskegon, Michigan .. . 70 Chicopee, Massachusetts . 75 Sterling, Illinois 70 Manchester, N. Hamp. . . 75 
Chmtrmmm Cltiem mhieh Bmce Memeked mr Exceeded Tketr iV«M.itte«Ni QmrntmB The following six cities already have reached or exceeded their non-alumni quotas of one non-alumnus gift for each two alimmi: 
No.  
Quota  Contributors  
Allentown, Pennsylvania  4  11  
Cheyenne, Wyoming  2  '  19  
Dover, New Hampshire  1  1  
Hannibal, Missouri  1  1  
Manchester, New Hampshire  2  13  
Richmond, Indiana  5  16  

Chmtrmmm Cittern Mmvlmt Memehed 7«% mr Mere ml Their lV«M-^teM«i Qmmtmm 
im4m m0emrdlmd4 aUmm 
Four Months To Go—Plenty of Time for AU ChotniMit Citia To Hit 100%.' The following M cities have 43>1 ahnnni wbo lisve not yet participated in jbn 19*8 Foundation Fund. If jost one-bait of these 4,301 non-contrilnitois vroidd cimtribute yet this year, we would exceed last year's total number, of abinini oontribaticiiK And an average of from 5 to 10 ahnnni contributors framthe other 180 Chairman Cities would add another 1,000 ahnnni ebo­tributois to the 1948 Fund. 
Number  Number  Number  
Alatmai  In-IS  !6I«  ToCo  
Evansville  31  °ao  65  U  
60%  Los Angeles  304  198  65  idr  
or  Des Moines  24  15  63  - 9-i.  
Over  Fort Wayne .... .  136  82  60  54*  
S t Louis . . . . .. .  221  134  60  87*  
Indianapolis  268  157  59  111*  
Kansas City  108  59  55  49  
Racine  20  11  55  9  
Mempliis  53  28  53  25  
50%  Charleston, W. Va. .  25  13  52  12  
or  Cincinnati  106  55  51  58*  
Over  Notre Dame  61  31  51  30  
New Orleans  .. .  1  30  15  50  15  
Pittsburgh  132  >  68  50  66*  
San Francisco  .. .  119  59  50  60*  
South Bend  .... .  734  370  50  364*  
Mawaukee  ~  144  71  49  75*  
Detroit  370  179  48  191*  
Louisville  102  49  48  sr  
Philadelphia  ... .  131  63  48  68*  
Peoria  96'  45  47  51*  
Denver  78  36  46  42  
Akron  ....... .  77  35  45  42  
Buffalo  176  78  44  96*  
Minneapolis.... .  72  32  44  40  
Rockford  70  31  44  39  
Washington  172  75  44  97*  
SeatUe  28  12  43  16  
Baltimore  ...... .  48  20  42  28  
Chicago  1,524  638  42  886*  
Under  Houston  41  17  41  24  
50%  Tulsa  49  20  41  29  
Cleveland  299  115  39  184*  
Rochest^  146  57  39  89*  
Dallas  50  IS  36  32  
Newark. N. J.  201  69  34  132*  
Grand Rapids ... .  85  28  33  ST*  
Elkhart  22  7  32  15  
St. Paul  ...... .  «  15  31'  23  
Benton Harbor .. .  48  19  29  28  
New York  1.081  292  27  789*  
Elizabeth  59  14  24  45  
Portland  54  13  24  41  
SpringBeld, Mass. .  33  5  IS  28  
TOTALS  7,678  3,368  44%  4,301  
The 21 larger cities designated above by asterisks ccmtain 3,689 


Goal No. In %In 
(or 85%!) of the 4,301 non-contributors in the above 44 "key" 
Warren, Ohio 4 3 75% 
Chairman Cities. 
13 

1946-1948 Tables • Almmmi mmd Friemia Cmmpmrmttce Ammtfialm •# I94S Alummi 
«•<! FrUmdM' GUta 
ALXJMNI 

ALtJMNI GIFTS 
Class  No.  To of Total  No.  %of Total  No.  liof Total  
$5-10 .  2,547  43  3,882  49  2,452  43  
10-20 .  1,840  31  2,255  29  1,936  34  
20-25 .  520  9  633  8  185  3  
25-50 .  654  11  666  8  678  12  
50-100  141  2  236  3  187  3  
100-200  125  2  99  1  129  2  
200-500  29  .75  70  1  70  1  
500 -1,000  17  .50  14  .33  8  .66  
1,000  . . .  5  .25  16  .33  6  .66  
1,000 up  .  7  .50  16  .33  7  .66  
GRAND TOTAL . 5,885  100%  7,887  100%  5,658  100%  

FRIENDS  
1946  
Class  No. Vcof Total  No.  •So/ Total  No.  <7<,o/ Total  
$25  94  36  39  19  217  68  
50  46  18  14  7  18  6  
100  52  20  52  26  41  13  
200  20  8  21  10  22  7  
500  8  3  19  10  7  2  
1,000  22  8  26  13  8  2  
2,000  5  1.5  13  6  4  1  
3,000  7  3  9  4  1  .25  
5,000  3  1  5  2.5  2  .50  
6,000 up  5  1.5  5  2.5  1  .25  
GRAND TOTAL . . 262  100%  203  100%  321  100%  

Note that the 6% decrease in the number of alumni gifts imder $10.00 resulted in a 5% increase in gifts in the next higher bracket. Also, alumni gifts of $100.00 and over represent 5% of this year's gifts in comparison with 3% last year. 
Same as Increase Decrease New Before Total 
At end of first quarter, 1948 29% 10% 28% 33% 100% 
Through July 5, 1948 27% 10% 25% 38% 100% 
FRIENDS GIFTS 
Same as Increase Decrease New Before Total At end of first quarter, 1948 6% 4% 78% 12% 100% Through July 5, 1948 5% 5% 80% 10% 100% 
Particularly noteworthy in the alumni table is the fact that 52% of the Alumni either have increased their gift this year over last year or are alumni who did not contribute at all last year. 
Of particular note in the Friends' table is that 80% of the Friends' Gifts in 1948 are gifts from friends of The University who have never before contributed to The University of Notre Dame. 
"Higher education is becoming mass education. No longer are only a few institutions looking to a few men of wealth for phil­anthropic support There are many institutions. Their needs are 
large, and incomes have been leveled so that the flow of phil­anthropy in the future must come in large measure from the lower income groups if philanthropy is to play as significant a part in finance of higher education as it has in the past. 
"The problem of acquainting philanthropists with institu­tional needs was met in the past by energetic and persuasive presidents, trustees, and deans. But, because of the changes in the sources of philanthropy, Davis expresses the opinion that institutions must henceforth present their needs and opportuni­ties with the aid of highly organized public relations depart­ments, and address their pleas to the public by radio, pageants, pamphlets, newspaper articles and all other ways resorted to by advertisers. These are the methods that reach the average citizen." From "Financing the Future of Higher Education," 
by THAD LEWIS HUNGATE. 

INSURANCE AND CORPORATE GIVING COMMITTEES 
Eieculiue Committee 'Staff Conunittee Mr. Lester Foley Mr. Thomas J. Jones, Jr. *Mr. John E. Cassidy Mr. J. Arthur Haley Mr. John F. Saunders *Mr. John E. Moore *Mr. Joseph B. McGlynn Mr. Raymond A. Geiger *Mr. E. A. Berkery *Mr. Hugh M. O'Neill Mr. William C. Schmitt 'Mr. John F. McMahon 
•Mr. Galvin Hudson Mr. James P. Swift Mr. Robert L. Hamilton 
Corporation Giving 
BIr. Henry C. Wurzer Mr. John E. Cassidy Mr-HughM-O-NeiU Mr. John E. Moore Mr. Galvin Hudson 
Wills and Bequests Mr. James P. Swift Mr. Leo B. Ward Mr. E. A.Berkery 
Insurance Giring Mr. Frank Howland Mr. Joseph Stewart Mr. Joseph Casasanta Mr.JohnT.Balfe Mr.PaulHoefDer Mr. Jerome Arnold Mr. James H. Brennan Mr. Jay L. Lee 
14 

CONTRIBUTIONS 
* TO THE Wmm OF KOTRG D M FOIIMTIOK 
January 1 to June 99, 1949 
ALABAMA Paul W. Schrichte . . 11.00 Colaio Imacmtitr 
lu.uu 

Theodore A. Witz. . . 25.00 Warren G. Kramer . .
Ralph R. Pinelli .... 5.00 Ronald J. Knapp . . , 3.00 5.00 
lirMtagtoai Winslow 

Roy W. Pinelli S.OO Wm. P. Liljestrom . . . 10.00 
Joseph N. Campbell . 5.00 Leag laaefe 
Ignacio E Lozano, Jr. 10.00 Edward B. Crawford . 10.00 
Louis J. Girogi ... . 5.00 Coroaa Del Mar Ray E Bates ... . 5.00 
Phillip M. Luppi.... 5.00 

Wm. T. Weidinger . . 5.00 
George J. Dawson . . 10.00 Robert R. Kiernan . . S.OO 
James P. Carroll . 
10.00 Frank Marshall ... . 10.00 

Raymond E. Faherty . 10.00 
Cool Donnell V. Davis . 
10.00 James R. McCabe . . 10.00 

Joseph B. McSeever . 10.00 
Robert Galloway . . . 10.00 Rolph W. Dixon . . 5.00 Edwin A. McDonald . 200.00 
ARKANSAS 
Robert E. Sass ... . 25.00 John J. Gavin . , , 10.00 
Geo. D. McDonald . 25.00 Peter P. Scalise ... . 10.00 Caraden Douglas J. Giorgio 10.00 . 
Ceresado 
James L McDonald 5.00 

Francis P. Mulcahy . . 50.00 Callfflon 5.00 L E. McDonald ... . 25.00 
Twomey M. Clifford . 35.00 
John P. Glaab . . Matthew H. Rothert . 25.00 
Calver CIfy Eugene J. Long . . 
3.00 James R. McGonagle 5.00 Conway Romeo P. Allard . . . 5.00 John C. Lungren . 
Charles J. Kleibaclcer 10.00 
25.00 John M. Miller ... . 50.00 Leo J. Hiegel 5.00 . 5.00 
Fairfield Carl J. Rausch ... . 10.00 Emmet J. Madden 25.00 Wm. R. Molony.Jr.. 
E P. Mulholland .
John P. Berscheid . . . 25.00 BUridqt 20.00 Jos. W. Mullin, Jr. . . 50.00 
Jonesboro 

James A. Rudolf . 5.00 Charles S. Murphy . . 5.00 
Robert D. Hunt.... 2.00 

Robert E. Puryear. . . 5.00 
John F. Ryan . . . 
10.00 Thomas J. Murphy . . 10.00 

ARIZONA LiHfe Rock El Cerrif o Geo, F. Schnurle, Jr. 5.00 Sophus F. Neble . . . 10.00 Charles F. Peak. . .-. 25.00 
Flagsfaff John P. Murphy ... . 25.00 Edmond W. Sheeran 10.00 Robert L Nickells . . 7.50 
Wm. R. Wrape, 11 . . 5.00 El Segaado John G. Tobin . 5.00 Honford R. Orvis . . . 5.00 
Thos. F. McCullough . 1.00 
J . Thomas Trixler 
Paragou/d Leonard F. Smith . . . 25.00 25.00 G. Lawrence Ott. . . 25.00 Glendole Howard S. Webster 5.00 
Robert E. Pohl, Jr. . . 5.00 

Alba H. Wrape ... . 25.00 Eaelao 
John E. Fahrendorf . . 5.00 Mn. J. Thos. Trixler . 100.00 David 1. Powers ... . 4.00 
Robert C. McMohon . 25.00 
Joseph W. Powers . . 10.00 

Nogales Los ilagelos 
Fresao 
Robt. E Proctor, Jr. . 5.00 

CALIFORNIA 
Francis J. Barry ... . 25.00 Chorles T. Baxter . . . 25.00 
John B. Cello 200.00 John J. Propeck ... . 5.00 
Jos. V. Robbins ... . 50.00 Alhambra Louis Berardi 25.00 
E.J. Pagliosotti. . . . 5.00 Clare L Randolph . . 5.00 Edwin L. Kane 20.00 David J. Bernard . . . 10.00 
PAeenix Gleadale Paul J. Rigoli 2.00 
Benj. B. Solvoty.Jr.. . 5.00 Joseph J. Bernard . . 5.00 Notre Dame Club . . . 50.00 Fred R. Parent ... . 10.00 
Leo J. Robidoux . . . 4.00 

Joseph T. Strong . . . 25.00 Peter Wier Bethea . . 5.00 Stephen J. Bielli. . . . 10.00 Stanley G. Stone .. . 1.00 
10.00 

J. R. Winterbottom . . 25.00 Michael L Blessing . . 10.00 John W. Dehner . . . 30.00 
Carl L Sabo 5.00 

Haafard Everett C. Brown . . . 5.00 Regis Fallon 5.00 
Alfaie«a Alfonso A. Scott . . . 25.00 James B. Burke ... . 10.00 
Robert C. Byrnes . . . 10.00 Albert Ficks, Jr 100.00 Arthur L. Erro 5.00 
O. L Sidenfaden . . . 10.00 

Eugene C. Calhoun . . 15.00 
Harbor CIfy Joseph M. Suttner . . 5.00 
E. J . Hilleert 5.00 
>lnaAeim John W . Corberry . . 25.00 John P.Joyce 10.00 William S. Dillon . . . 10.00 
Plin J. Swanson ... . 5.00 Rev. John J. Hill . . . 10.00 
Cleve W. Carey . . . 15.00 Robert D. Kendall . . 50.00 
John F. Tormey ... . 10.00 

Hawffcorae Charles J. Carrig . . . 5.00 William P. Mahoney . 25.00 
Arcadia Leo V. Turgeon ... . 5.00 Robert C. Murphy .. 10.00 T. B. Cosgrove .... 500.00 
George F, Usher . . . 20.00 

John G. O'Malley, Jr. 50.00 Poul E. Rubly 10,00 
William M. Crilly . . . 5.00 Thomas E. O'Malley . 10.00 J. M. Moriarty ... . 25.00 
Hayward P. M. Varraveto . . . 10.00 
Louis J. Crollard . . . 5.00 Christian F. Risser . . 5.00 
James P. Abbott . . . 5.00 George A. Wagner . 5.00 
Daniel J. Culkin ... . 5.00 
•ell 
Thos. J. Walsh, Jr. . . 50.00 

Hellydal* M. J. Cunningham . . 25.00 
l(f Tempe Wm. T. Hortfield . . . 2.00 
Leo B. Ward 25.00 Robert M. Hutton . . 5.00 Douglas Daley ... . 5.00 
' Williom L Joyce . . . 5.00 James 1. Wargin . . . 25.00 
•erteley 

Martin B. Daly, Jr. . . 10.00 
Hollywood Edward A. Wright . . 5.00 
Toesen George E. Thomas . . 15.00 F. A. Deichmann, II. . 5.00 Joseph P. Guadnola . 10.00 Raymond C. Zaller . . 23.00 
Notre Dame Club . . 200.00 Harry E. Denny ... . 10.00 
Beverly Hills 

Robert J. Horenn . . . 2.00 F. S. Alexander ... . 1.00 
Elmer W. Besten . . . 20.00 C. J. De Pol 1.00 
Tom Boland 25.00 Vernon E. Rickard . . . 10.00 E. F. Becker 5.00 
Thomas Blair 10.00 Martin P. D'Errica . . 5.00 
Edw. P. Cunningham . 10.00 Lawrence Bolger . . . 10.00 
Haafiagfea Fark 

Victor J. Blong ... . 5.03 John E. Dockweiler. . 5.00 
William Cusock ... . 10.00 Robert F. Dillon ... . 2.00 Carl H. Fricke 5.00 Henry I. Dockweiler. . 15.00 5.00 
Samuel Longendorf . 10.00 Paul Jean Dufaud . . 15.00 Al J. Welzenbach . . . 25.00 William F. Escher . . . 10:00 3.00 
Nickolas P. Lukots . . 5.00 
Mr., Mrs.XL 

John G. Feeley ... . 10.00 laglewoed Michael Fanning . . . 25.00 
Edward W . Mehren . . 250.00 Francis M. Geddes . . 21.00 Jos. Wischemeyer, Jr. 15.00 Willord C. Fortler . . 100.00 Edwin F. Feldman . . 5.00 
Arthur J. Jarff . . . 5.00 

Earl F. Glenn, Jr.. . . 8.00 Paul F. Gloss 15.00 Rev. R. J. Floherty . . 5.00 10.00 
M. T. Heddermon . . 1.00 Barbank Chester D. Freeze . . 15.00 J. T. Mclsoac.... 
LaCaaada 

Charles J. Kennedy. . 10.00 Edw. J. Dowling ... . 3.00 Charles S. Gass . . . 10.00 James J. Milleit . . 10.00 Dudley K. Smith . . . . 10.00 
John P. King 10.00 John L. Horrigon, Jr. 10.00 Rolland J. Gaupel . . 25.00 M, S. Quinliven . . . 10.00 Timothy R. King ... . 22.00 Peter V. Moulder . . . 10.00 LaCresceafa John J. Gilrane ... . 7.50 A. Lee Read ... . 100.00 John A. Gocke .... 10.00 
James M. Murphy . . 12.00 Robert W. Huether. . 5.00 Edmund Roberts . . 5.00 
Borllagame 

Daniel N. Herwit. . . 5.00 
Christopher Reilley . . 25.00 Eugene Sconlon . . . 7.00 
LA . O'Leary 15.00 Lagaaa Icsek 
Louis H. Hruby .... 10.00 
James A. Reilly ... . 10.00 A. C. Weisburg . . 200.00 
Robt. C. Schroeder . . 10.00 B. P. McHugh 10.00 Francis O. Rogers . . . 20.00 10.00 
Francis B. Hughes . . Carpenlerlo LaJella Emmit M. Jennings . . 10.00 U * NfefM 
Jesse H. Roth 20.00 Stephen J. Schneider. 5.00 5.00 
Frank X.O'NeiL Jr.. Frederick Ruiz 3.00 Eugene M. Kennedy . 10.00 Thomas R.Ashe. .. . 10.00 
Light Face Type—Alumni: Bold Face Type—Other Friends. 
15 

Smatm Aam
COLORADO 

John F. Regan .... 5.00 
Robert E lliff 20.00 ilalt 
Lloyd R. Stolich . . . 25.00 Robert B. Webb . . . 5.00 
A. L Andersen, Jr.. 10.00 

Saaf* larbara 
Sam ••raardlae 
Colorado Sprlags 

M. C. McDermott . . 
15.00 
Arthur O. Arogon . . 5.00 
Don P. Alexander. . . 20.00 

Harry A. McGuire . . 5.00 
J.R.Bergman 15.00 
Wm. J. Donelan, Jr. . 10.00 

Clement F. Powers . . 10.00 
Terrance R. O'Malley 5.00 Rev. John W. Meehan 10.00 Daavcr 
Leo L Renner 10.00 
•John P. Akolt 5.00 

S«af« Maria 
Soa Cariot 
Leon W. Archer . . . 5.00 

Chas. T. McDermont. 30.00 
M. P. McDermott. . . 10.00 
Eugene S. Blish ... . 10.00 

John A. Murray .... 10.00 Saa Diego Francis W. Brown . . . 10.00 Saafa Moaiea 
J. Philip Clark ... . 20.00 
Notre Dame Club . . 10.00 

Joseph E Dwyer . . . 15.00 
Franklin U Conway . . 5.00 
James H. Boch ... . 25.00 

John H. Huntzicker . . 5.00 
A. E. Coquillord, Jr. . 25.00 Allen R. Travis ... . 3.00 
H. F. Beilstein 5.00 
John V. Coyne .... 10.00 
John H. Cowley. . . . 10.00 
Joseph A. Craven . . 100.00 Thos. G. Currigon Francis J. Davis ... . 1.00 Sierra Madre 

John N. Fogel ... . 5.00 Ernest P. Maiirin, Jr. . 10.00  . . 5.00 Donald G. Manning . 10.00 
John H. Deo 10.00 

Soaoaia 
Robert A. Dick .... 10.00 Louis K. Dudak .... 
Thos. E Lauermon . . 1.00 

Emmett A. McCobe . 30.00 2.00 James V. Doucet . . . 10.00 
Soaffcgate Arthur C. Gregory . . 10.00 
A. M. Mitchell ... . 5.00 

G. J. O'Brien, Jr.. . . 15.00 Leo F. Buckley ... . 5.00 Fred W. Gushurst . . 50.00 
Rt. Rev. Msgr. Francis Edward J. Hogan . . 5.00 Jas. F. Honlon ... . 10.00 Ott 10.00 Leo J. McGarty .. . 5.00 John H, Humphreys . 10.00 
R. M. Humphreys . . . 20.00 
Ugo R. Rossi 5.00 

SoBtb Logaaa leacb 
Marcus P. Kerin . . . 

Walter C. StefFen . . 5.00 5.00 
Mf.f Mrs. C C 

William D. Mohoney . 1.00 TERENCE B. COSGROVE 
W. A. Stewart, Jr. . . 10.00 

Bocklemann 50.00 Charles J. Rauner . . 10.00 
John J. McEniry . . . 5.00 Los Angeles City Choirmon 
Soof b Pasadena D. G. Monoghon, Jr.. Thos. A. Misterly . . . 5.00 Jomes E. Monaghan . 5.00 
Brendan J. Shea . . . 5.00 10.00 
Oceaa fork Saa Fraaeiseo 
Lyawood Francis W. Schulte . . 5.00 John R. Moron ... . 50.00 Lowrence P. Friel . . - 5.00 William R. Ryan, Sr. . 2.00 Donald L Allen ... . 14.00 F. Richard Witte . . . 2.00 B. W. O'Hara 15.00 MoafcaffoB Beach SfecHoa A. M. O'Meoro.Jr.. . 25.00 
Jos. Eugene Beh .. . 20.00 
Ontario 
Froncis J. Bon ... . 10.00 

Martin Brill 5.00 25.00 James B. Jones ... . 10.00 Eugene P. O'Meara . 25.00 
Wm. R. Sidenfoden . Thomas P. Foye Robt P. Sullivan . . . 10.00 William B. Sullivan . 15.00 Oznard John W.Carey. .. . 10.00 Felix Pogliono, Jr. . . 5.00 
5.00 William T. Byrne . . . 5.00 John B. O'Malley, Jr.. 5.00 
Tcaipie City 
Moywood Froncis R. Canning . . 5.00 Geo. D. Cummings . . 10.00 John T. Sheehon . . . 5.00 Floyd F. Miller ... . 5.00 Eugene E DeLoy . . . 5.00 George R. Meeker . . 5.00 Thos. M. Tierney . . . 5.00 
Willord R. Vongen . . 1.00 L Gordon Fischer . . 10.00. Torraaee John V. Walsh .... 
Kenneth Z. Zike . .. . 1.00 Palo Alto 10.00 
K. P. Fitzpatrick . . . 50.00 Gerald MocDonold . 5.00 Elmer B. Wynne . . . 
Meolo Park Roy C. Bailie 10.00 5.00 Joseph J. Flynn ... . 10.00 
M. Joseph McCabe . 10.00 Paramoant .Twaafyaiae Palais Oaraago 
Richard J . Fuite . . . 25.00 Millbrae John A. Mies 5.00 W. Redman Duggon . 2.50 
Robert W. Van Lohr . 10.00 
Eugene T. Goeller . . 5.00 David F. Hicltey . . . 10.00 Uplaad 
Pasadena Joseph L Kuhorich . . 10.00 
Leveiaad 

Front M. Perez ... . 3.00 Joseph J. Ludwig . . . 2.00 Jomes K. Marr ... . 10.00 
Leo J. Banes . . 5.00 
yward J. Nugent . . 10.00 Paul F. Berger . 25.00 
Modesto Robert M. Millett . . 25.00 Vallejo R. Zeno Staudt, Jr.. . 5.00 
Richard Lyng 25.00 E. Robert Nigro ... . 25.00 
John L Hogan . 15.00 Thos. J. McCaffrey . . 2.00 Nevin F. McCormicIc . 10.00 L. W. Kennedy . 7.50 Rev. F. L Sampson . . 2.00 Rocky Ford 
Vaa Nays Monte Bello Charles H. Lynch 10.00 
Lido F. Shiamonna . . 1.00 Joseph M. Dunn . . . 10.00 William J. Murphy . . 3.00 Arthur L. Varneou . . 5.00 A. H. McConnell 10.00 
Lawrence E Stahl . . 25.00 William L Roddatz. . 5.00 Trinidad 

James E. Wade ... . 10.00 Monterey Patrick R. Shea ... . 5.00 Joseph F. Nigro . . . 15.00 
Joseph Scott 200.00 
5.00 William A. Rapp . . . 5.00 
Robert B. Taylor '.

Robert J. Beoudine . . 5.00 
Robert F. Wiele . . . 5.00 Norbert W. Verbeck . 5.00 
Montrose Saa Gabriel 
Veaice 
CONNECTICUT 

Robert K. Kelley . . . 2.00 Pico Roy J. Dashbach . . . 25.00 
Carol R. Klotz ... . 5.00 John A. Torribio . . . 5.00 Dovid N. Gibson . . . 5.00 Avoa
Nortt Hollywood John A. O'Connor . . 1.00 Richord W. Mullen . . 5.00 Richard L. Mulloney . 10.00 
Ben Alexander ... . 25.00 Pittsbarg John E Walsh .... 3.00 Edword C. Ashe . . . 10.00 C. Bloke Gordon . . 10.00 Saa Lais Obispo Co. Veafara letftaay William W. Corr . . . 10.00 
Robert H. Holpin .. . 5 00 Mox J. Freemon . . . 10.00 Eugene J. Ryan ... . 5.00 
Presidio of Monterey Dan Sheehy 10.00 Gregory E. From . . . 10.00 
John E. Fusick 25.00 Saa Leaadro Walaat Creak Irlrfgeport 
Daniel E. Brennon . .- 10.00 

L V. Gorrillo 20.00 ftedonde leacfc Edward T. McCarthy . 10.00 Thomas D. Bond .. . 21.00 
10.00 Kenneth J . Cave . . . 2.00 
Geo. A. Haninger Jomes W. Fox ... . 10.00 
Saa Leraaze Wast Los 4ageies 
15.00 John T. Corcoran, Jr.. 5.00 Rivera George W. Alfs . . . 15.00 
Robt. V. Kamensky 
George A. Coppin . . 5.00 

William T. DeSiero . . 2.00 George T. Wilson . . 7.50 Arthur Cossidy ... . 1.00 
John B. McArdle . 10.00 
 25.00 

Donald W. Morgan 5.00 Saa Moriae John J. Galla
H. Rex Ellis 5.00 
Charles A. Wright 5.00 Reseee Neil F. Kelly 1.00 
Louis F. Amestoy . . . 5.00 Harold D. Guerin . . 5.00 
Noble F. Harbaugh . 3.00 Joseph W. Knott . . . 5.00 
Oakland W. L Kroneberger . . 1.00 Eugene F. Ling .. . 25.00 Francis S. McGee . . 15.00 
Bernard J. Abrott. 10.00 Roscaiead Louis M. Purcell. . . . 15.00 Francis J. Meyer . . 10.00 
John M. Murphy . . . 20.00 

Francis A. Andrews 10.00 Williom J. Cook . . . 100.00 William B. Shanley . . 20.00 
Lester P. Poyer . . . 10.00 
John C. Redgate . . . 10.00 

William F. Cronin 10.00 Thomas H. Allison . . 10.00 
Roseville 

Wbittier Francis J. Rooney. . . 5.00 
T. M. Fitzpatrick, Jr. 2.00 
L. J. O'Connor ... . 15.00 
Saa Mofao Jos. J . Ahlering .. . 10.00 Richard E. Salomon . 5.00 
Edw. P. Madigon . 20.00 Sacraacato Thomas E Duffy . . . 25.00 Vittorio G. Arcadi . 5.00 Francis A. Smith, Jr. . 5.00 
Robt. L McDonald 25.00 
M. E Fitzpatrick . . 10.00 William F. Tobin . . . 5.00 
Frank E Cone ... . 25.00 Bert V. Dunne 100.00 
Rolph E. Rogers . 5.00 
R. A. VonderWegen . 5.00 W. B. McDonald . . . 25.00 Wilmer E Rich .. . 5.00 Theo. S. Weber. Jr.. . 10.00 
George Johnson . 10.00 
Pbofograpbs of orfdifioaal Criy Cfcaira 
Light Foce Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. 
16 

Brisfel KoefcvW* Bro. Lawrence Bever . 2.00 Anthony J. Gentile . . 2.00 Peter J. Baker 1.00 Harold V. Bolsvert . . 5.00 Joseph H. Robinson . 5.00 Robt. E. Brooks, Jr.. . 5.00 
Xocty HHI 

Arthur J. Gardekas. . 5.00 Raymond M. Burch . . 5.00 Bernord J. McMahon . 5.00 
James M. Corcoran . 10.00 
Daabaiy 

William. J. Cour . . . 10.00 Robert J. Doran . . . 50.00 
Soybreok 

. Daniel Culhane ... . 5.00 George F. O'Brien . . 10.00 
R«v. L F. FitxSimont . 25.00 
J. Harvey Daly ... . 15.00 FalrttU Semen Luino L DaPra ... . 15.00 
John T. Fitzpatricic . . 1.00 Edward J. Glynn . . . 100.00 Philip A. Darmody . . 5.00 Valentine B. Deale . . 20.00 
FarmtagtoB Stamford 

Norman E. Duke . . . 10.00 Vincent E. Turley , . . 10.00 Walter J. Cyr . . . . 25.00 
John H. Dunn 10.00 

J. Walter Kennedy . . 25.00 
HarHord Charles L Farris . . . 25.00 Peter P. Richiski . . . 5.00 Notre Dome Club . . 1260.50 
Edward E. Fenlon . . . 15.00 Redmond F. Toner . . 10.00 Francis D. Ahern . . . 5.00 
James P. Ferry ... . 10.00 

Sfratferd James A. Flynn ... . 25.00 
Clarence J. Bourret. . 2.00 
Thomas A. Flynn . . . 25.00 

Thomas B. Curry . . . 25.00 John L. Kilbride ... . 10.00 
Joseph F. Gall ... . 5.00 

James B. Dully ... . 5.00 
Terrlagfea 

John W. Gibbons . . . 25.00 James M. Droney . . 1.00 
Thos. E. Ferguson . . . 5.00 
Elmer F. Gillespie . . . 10.00 Joseph E. Jacob . . . 5.00 
Donald A. Foskett . . 10.00 
Joseph R.Gorman . . 100.00 

Joseph A. Gaucher . . 10.00 
Geo. L Haithcock . . 5.00 

G. Albert Lawton . . 5.00 Wal/iagferd 
John J. James, Jr. . . 10.00 

John E. Lynch, Jr. . . 5.00 Julius R. Kristan .. . 10.00 
D. Joseph Judge . . . 5.00 

David T. Meskill . . . 15.00 
Waferbary 
CaH Alden Julien . . 5.00 

Timothy J. Murphy, Jr. 25.00 
Norbert A. Aleksis . . 5.00 William C. Karl. . . . 18.75 
William J. Andres . . 25.00 Wm. D. Kovonaugh . 100.00 
William J. Reid ... . 25.00 
UfcMeld 

C. Louis Del Gaizo . . 10.00 
John C. Kirby 12.00 KEENE P. FITZPATRICK Alan B. Mooney . . . 10.00 Joseph P. Del Gaizo . 5.00 
Horry J. Kirk 15.00 San Francisco City Chairman Daniel Gentile, Jr. . . 2.00 Wm . F. Montovon . . 10.00 
Maaekesfer 

Norbert F. Henebry . 5.00 Philip W . Morgon . . . 3.00 
Thomas C. Shea . . . 5.00 John F. Lanohan . . . 
5.00 
Iniaswick 

John L McGuinness . 10.00 Leo F. Mullin .... . 100.00 
Louis J. Reilly 10.00 
Edward F. Monahan .

Meridu James J. Scigllano . . 10.00 A. A. O'Connell . . . 25.00 10.00 
Lake illf red 
William E. Oehler . . 2.00 John J. Sullivan .... 10.00 D. A. O'DonnelL Jr. . 5.00 Ce/flas 
David W. Sprofte . . 5.00 A. C. Pacheco ... . 5.00 F. P. Goodman, Jr.. . 5.00 
Rufus M. Wilkes . . . 

West Hartford 2.00 
Mrs. Joi. C. Stoba . . 10.00 J. Harold Roddy . . . 10.00 
Lakefaad 
Carl S. Ayres 10.00 KeaM Middlefewa Joseph E Keefe . . . 5.00 
Joseph F.Salisbury. . 1.00 

Fred W. Koetter .. . 5.00 Bernard S. Fahy
 . . . 
10.00 

Rev. Edw. J. Seward . 10.00 Westpert Walter J. Short. .. . 10.00 
Jomes G. Murphy . . 2.00 Geo. M. Rudolph, Jr.. 5.00 
klteaii 
MHford 
William J. Syring . . . 10.00 

James J. Maher, Jr. ." 5.00 
A. A. Benedosso . . . 10.00 W. F. Tobin ...... . 10.00 Jos. E. Fitzpalrick . . . 10.00 IDAHO Windsor Vincent C. Giblin . . 200.00 
James R. Kelly ... . 10.00 Williom J. Tracy . . . 5.00 lobe John P.Johnson ... . 10.00 
Jerome P. Holland . . 10.00 
Walter Trohon ... . 100.00 James J. Carberry ." . 10.00 
Naagsfaek Val/ty 

Fred A. Jones, Jr.. . . 10.00 
PaulCTully 15.00 Carl A. Gaensslen . . 
3.00 

Notre Dame Club . . 25.00 William F. Morrow . . 15.00 
A. Francis Vitt ... . 5.00 Pic Novorro 
166.12 New trUalm Francis J. Vukovich . . 10.00 ktiaal Spriags 
DELAWARE 
M«bo fmlh
Newark 

Joseph P. Holboch . . 10.00 Joseph Wang 5.00 Howard J. Korth, Jr.. 10.00 
John L. Ziebarth . . . 1.00 

Arthur R. Kernen . . . 5.00 
Rev. Charles F. William J. Welsh .. . 10.00 
Orlaade Kornasiewicz ... . 25.00 Marpky 
Chos. F. Raley, Jr. . . 10.00 Joseph G. Wetzel . . 100.00 
Roy B. Laughlin ... . 5.00 Matthew Meskill . . . 50.00 Newport Jos. H. NeHleton . . . 10.00 
John E. Wood ... . 5.00 

feasaeola 
Tighe E.Woods. . . . 100.00 

John F. Tuite 5.00 
Edward A. Bried . . 5.00 Myles H. Quail ... . 20.00 Robert E. Lee, Jr.. . . 10.00 
Lawrence E. Woods . 2.00 William M. Glenn . 5.00 Bailey Walsh 5.00 St. Augattleo ILLINOIS ,/» New Caaaaa Seoford Julian G. Atwater . . 2.00 
Alexis 

Thomas P. Cody ". . . 10.00 10.00 
Robert P. Leonard . 

Edward H. Fishwick . . 5.00 
_John B. Rogers ... . 25.00 Hew Havea WHatlagfOB FLORIDA Chos. G. Oliveros, Jr. 5.00 
Mtom 

Wm . F. Flaherty, Jr. . 5.00 John M. Alvarez, Jr. . 10.00 >lpalaekleela St. fefenbarg 
James E. Cahill ... . 5.00 Arthur A. Baum . . . 25.00 
Joseph E. Kennedy . . 5.00 Charles T. Marshall 2.00 
Richard J. Deeb . . . 10.00 
Joseph V. Goeken . . 25.00 

John J. O'Neill ... . 5.00 Thomas F. Degnon . . 10.00 
Coral Gabfes Frank L Hanei .... 1.00 
R. F. Piontek 6.00 Donald K. Duffey . . . 5.00 
William L. Huntley . . 10.00 H. C. Hellrung ... . 25.00 
Albert L Brown ... . 10.00 
John A. Warner, Jr. . 5.00 Charles J. Kelley .. . 5.00 
H. R. Hellrung ... . 25.00 

Eugene P. Yoklovlch . 10.00 M. Harry Miller ... . 25.00 Foley Taliafeaisee 
John L Jehle 10.00 William S. Murray . . 10.00 Milton J. Foley ... . 166.00 Phillip J. Lucier ... . 5.00 
New LoadoB Patrick S. O'Neill . . . 10.00 
John E. Reith 5.00 
Charles R. Sotti .. . 1.00 Forf Laaderdole West Palat Spriags 
4reefa 

Joseph A. Walsh . . . 5.00 
Robert A. Erkins . 20.00 Edw. F. Mulligon . . . 125.00 
Nerwalk Charles A. Young . . . 10.00 Thos. F. Monahan, Jr. 15.00 
Robt. H. Gore, Jr. 50.00 Joseph W. Tracy . . . 1.00.00 
John A. Devine ... . 20.00 
>lrge 
Denis K. O'Meara , 25.00 

Robert B. Devine . . . 25.00 William J. Redden , 15.00 
W. C. Lambert, Jr.. . 10.00 

John F. Lyons 5.00 DISTRICT OF GEORGIA 
Mr., Mrs. Michoel S. Frederick F. McMahon 10.00 
John C. Sullivan . 25.00 

AHmatm
COLUMBIA 
Lambert 10.00 
Hollywood

Norwiefc Alfred R. Abrams . . . 200.00 
Wasfciagtoa, D. C. ilarora 
Frederick J. Stewort . 10.00 W. H. Schroder, Jr. . 15.00 Harry M.Ambrose . . 10.00 Richard O. Burns .. . 1.00 Jos. J. Dutton, Jr. . . 25.00 
Francis Y. Aubrey . . 5.00 
J. W. Anderson, Jr.. . 10.00 JacksoavlMt Aa§asto Wm. B. Chawgo . . . 10.00 Prospect David C. Bagley . . . 10.00 Robert W. Coyle . . . 15.00 Aloysius J. Redd .. . 3.50 Len F. Frett 20.00 
D. Frank Murnane, Jr. 5.00 John F. Berteling . . . 5.00 Lester W. Foley. . . . 167.00 Patrick M. Redd . . . 3.50 Jerome N. Hurd . . . 25.00 
will appear in sebseqeeet iames Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. 
17 

Edmund D. Callahan .  5.00  W. S . Ferstel  50.00  Leo C. Heringer  
Charles F. Calvert  . .  5.00  Donald J, Figel ... .  10.00  Francis J. Hurley .  
Fred J. Carideo  ... .  25.00  Edw. L  Figel  10.00  Albert H. Huter  
Edward C. Carlson . .  5.00  Allen E  Fink  25.00  Robert Irmiger  .  
Robert E. Carmody.  10.00  William S. Finucane  .  5.00  Wm. D. Jomieson .  
Thomas P. Carroll  . ^  5.00  Clifford L  Fisher  . . .  5.00  Emil J. Jonc  . .  
C. E. Cortier, Jr. . . .  5.00  John P. Fitzpatrick  . .  5.00  Roy Allen Jonn .  
Jos. P. Chompley . . .  10.00  F. T. Fitzsimmons . . .  10.00  William J. Jonn .  
Louis E. Chowgo  . . .  5.00  J. C. Flonigan, Jr. . .  10.00  William V. Jordon  
L  D. Chouninord . . .  5.00  Robert E. Flonnery . .  S.OO  Fred A. Joyce, Sr.  
Donald D. Clark  . . .  5.00  Milton J. Flyke  ... .  10.00  John R. Joyce  .  
John F. Cooker, Jr.. .  5.00  Frank T. Flynn, Jr.  . .  5.00  Byron V. Konoley,  
John J. Collins  ... .  5.00  Joseph F. Flynn ... .  50.00  Donold V. Kane .  
Wm. P. Comeford, Jr.  5.00  J. Poul Fogorty ... .  25.00  James J. Kone  .  
Daniel R. Connell. . .  10.00  Edmond I. Foley  . . .  5.00  Raymond A. Kane  
Chos. H. Connor, Jr..  2.00  Jos. T. Foley  10.00  A. T. Kortheiser.  
George L  Connor  .  2.00  Robert A. Foos ... .  5.00  John E. Keenan .  
Arthur L  Conrad . . .  10.00  Mark A. Foote  ... .  10.00  Robert L  Kehoe  
Thomas E. Cooke . . .  25.00  George J. Foss, Jr.. .  10.00  John T. Keleher .  
Maurice J. Cooney . .  5.00  David J. Froehlich  . .  15.00  Jos. H. Kelleghon  
A. L. Coscarelli  ... .  10.00  James T. Gollogher  .  35.00  Poul K. Kelley . .  
John W. Costello . . .  20.00  Michael J . Ganey  . .  5.00  David C. Kelly  ­ 
Thomas E. Coughlan  .  10.00  E  C. Gorrity, Jr. . . .  15.00  Edward J. Kelly .  
Richard C. Creevy . .  10.00  W. CGoyno r  ... .  15.00  F. B. Kennedy, Jr..  
Carl M. Cronin  ... .  10.00  John D. Geary  ... .  15.00  Rophoel J. Kennedy  
Mark A. Cronin, Jr.. .  5.00  A. G. Girolami ... .  2.00  Wm . E. Kennedy  
Edw. F. Cuddihy  . . .  10.00  John D. Golden. . . .  10.00  Wm. J. Kennedy  
B. W. Cullen, Jr. . . .  5.00  James A. Gonner . . .  25.00  John E. Kenney .  
TIMOTHY J. MURPHY, JR. Hartford (Conn.) City Chairman  Frank L Cullinon . . . John M. Cunneo . . . J. V. Cunningham, Sr.  200.00 10.00 25.00  Morton R. Goodman .Thomas E Gordon . .Robert C. Gorski . . .  25.00  5.00  5.00  Francis J. Kent . Richard M. Kerwin Erwin J. Kiep .  
Geo. M. Ireland . .Donald J. Keenan .Thos. P. O'Molley .Wm. D. Felling . . .A. F. Potenziani . . .John J. Riley . . . .Charles A. Roth . . .Clarence J. Ruddy .John R. Thumm . . .•eordstow n Jomes E. O'Horo . .Belleville Al. E. Fellner . . . Bellwood Edward J. Kelly . . .John J. Word, Jr.. .  5.00  2.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  2.00 25.00  5.00  5.00  Cambridge Paul L Olson CanfOB Mortin R. Heckard . , CarliBville Stephen E. Cormody . Michael F. Seyfrit . . CarrelffoB Paul A. Dailey ... . Cfeafflpaign Paul F. Honnogan . , Jos. P. Sonculius . . . Chafsworfb Stephen H. Herr . . .Froncis W. Kaiser . . . 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 15.00 10.00  25.00­ 25.00  Daniel F. Curley . . . Stonley J. Czopolski . John A. Czerwiec . . . Maurice J. Dacy . . . William J. Darcy . . . Edward K. Delano . . J. P. Delia Maria . . . John E DeMots... . Louis A. DeSmel . . . John D. Desmond . . . George A. Dever . . . William P. Devine . . Daniel A. DeVries . . . Terrence J. Dillon . . John F. Dinges ... . Wilbur F. Doll R. J. Domenicali . . . Robert J. Donahue . .  10.00 10.00 15.00 50.00 5.00 15.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 400.00 10.00 50.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 10.00  Arch E SottEdw. W. Gould ... .Vincent L Goulet. . .Thomas F. Grady . . .Thomas H. Grady . .Thomas J. Graves . .Harry R. Greene .. .John T. Griffin ... .Seymour R. Gross . . .James G, Hack ... .R. E Hoggerty ... .John J . Hatpin ... .Richard L Holpin . .P. Jordan Homel . . .Robt. J. Hanley, Jr. ,Claire V. Hansen . . .Robt. E. Harrington .Dennis B. Hartnett . .  5.00  50.00  20.00  50.00  10.00  15.00  1.00  6.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  3.00  10.00  Thomas B. Kilduff . Roger J. Kiley . Robert J. King . W. A. Kiolbaso . John E. Kiple . . Julius J. Kiraly . Jos. S. Kobrynski Edwin T. Kolski . Charles J. Kovocs Robert W. Kramer . Walter F. Krawiec Leary B. Kreissl . John W. Locey . Daniel J. Lomont. Nelson N. Lamport. LeRoy F. Lang Daniel F, Laughlin John E. Leahy  
•e/videre William H. Grady .Berwyn Anthony J. Pintro . .Henry F. Pojmon . .Otto Von Drosek . .•feeningfo n John J. Conley . . .Thomas J. Moore . .Rev. R. C. O'Brien .March F. Wells . . .Blue Islam1 Herbert M. Dolton .Norman B. Heckler. .(roodvieM r Albert J. DelZoppo .Brookiielc Robert M. Trotter .taeUaghar n Wayne Schott . . .Cairo Russell J. O'Sheo . .E Merlin Rolwing . . .Calne f CH y John J. Wallace . . CMeaqe  5.00 Edward C. Agnew . .Donald R. Albright. . 2.00 James A. Allan ... . 5.00 John C. Allen, Jr. . . 20.00 Arthur F. Anderson . .John F. Anton ... .Thomas N. Armel. . . 10.00 Gene M. Aasen ... . 10.00 Joseph A. Boiley . . . 10.00 Eugene Barnes ... . 10.00 Norman J. Barry . . .Robert L BartI ... . 5.00 F. Becklenberg, Jr. . . 5.00 John J. BeerJohn W. Bergen . . .William L Berk ... . 10.00 George C. Blaha . . .N. J. Bohling, Jr. . . . 25.00 Eugene F. Brennan . .T. V. Brennan, Jr. . . . 1.00 A.John Brinkman . . .F. R. Brookmeyer . . .Peter B. Brosnan . . . 5.00 Edward M. Bruce . . . 10.00 Emmelt F. Burke . . .William J. Burns . . . 25.00 James A. Byrne ... .  5.00  5.00  25.00  5.00  15.00  5.00  100.00  2.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  25.00  10.00  50.00  10.00  25.00  10.00  James V. Donoghue . Patrick J. Donovan . . Thomas C. Donovan . William L Dorgon . . Martin W . Downey . . James P. Doyle . . . . James T. Doyle . . . . Nicholas M. Doyle . , William J. Drennan . . A. V. Drymalski . . . . T. Robert Ducey . . . John R. Duffy Robert T. Duffy . . . . William G. Dunne . . Robert W. Eder ... . Donie! J. Egan . . . . James V. Egon . . . . John J. Elder Edw. R Elliott Edw. J. Emmenegger . Chos. W. Ephgrove . . Francis R. Ernst . . . . Joseph H. Farley . . William C. Fay . . . . Thomas P. Feely. . . . William P. Feeley . . . Wm . J. Ferrick . . . .  5.00 10.00 15.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 50.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 3.50 5.00 10.00 4.00 5.00 20.00 15.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 200.00 5.00  George F. Hartnett .John H. Harty ... .Joseph F. Hartzer . .Charles B. Hayes. . .Richard G. Heclmon .Geo. P. Heneghon . .Wm . R. Hennessey . .George P. Henry . . .Patrick B. Henry .. .William C. Henry . .E. H. HerzogWm . F. Hessler... .Curtis A. Hester . . .Daniel W. Hester. . .Francis W. Hetreed .Frank G. Heupel . .Francis M. Higgins . .John E. Higgins... .D, E Hilgartner, Jr. .D. E Hilgortner, III .James R. Hines ... .Bernard F. Hiss ... .E J. HollandJohn J . Homan ... .Stephen L Hornyak .Wm . J . Howe, Jr. . .John J. Hussey ... .Paul H. Heimann . . .  100.00  10.00  15.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  1.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  2.00  10.00  7.50  5.00  15.00  25.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  Wm . H. Leohy, Jr. Maurice W. Lee Theodore J. Leonos. J. R. Lindsay, Jr. John P. Long . . Chos. F. Lourich James R. Luken . Richard J. Lynch William J. Lynch Lawrence E. Makey. J. E. Mockiewich, Jr. John M. Mohoney Carl D. Mokort. . John E. Moloney . W. Jos. Moloney . James E. Mann . . Edw. F. Mansfield . H. H. Marlow,Jr.. James R. Martin . Mario D. Mossulo Leonord J. Mosterson F. G. Motovovsky. Francis W. Motthys A. J. Mazziotti . . Robert J. McBride Thomas S. McCobe. James P. McCarthy M. J. McCaughey .  

Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATION 
18 

Francis T. McCurrie . 20.00 Jos. E. McDermott . . 10.00 
H. F. McDonagh, Jr.. 5.00 
H. F. McDonagh, Sr.. 25.00 
Philip W. McDonald . 5.00 0 F. J. McDonough . . . 10.00 
J. J. McDonough . . . 20.00 Allan P. McEachern . 10.00 Thomas F. McGee . . 5.00 Joseph C. McGinnis . 15.00 John P. McGoorty, Jr. 25.00 John A. McGuire . . . 50.00 John J. Mclnerney . . 2.00 
M. T. Mclnerney . . . 5.00 Roland J. Mclnlyre . . 5.00 Francis H. McKeever. 50.00 Edw. P. McKeown . . . 25.00 Horry P. McKeown . . 25.00 Edw. J. McLaughlin . 10.00 John J. McMurroy . . 5.00 
A. A. McNichols . . . 50.00 
J. F. McNulty, Jr. . . 10.00 Edward J. Meagher . 4.00 George F. Meltzer . . 5.00 William J. Meston . . 5.00 Bertram L. Melzger. . 10.00 Clement C. Mitchell . 100.00 James F. Mitchell. . . 2.00 
M. J. Mitchell, Jr. . . 5.00 Thomos F, Monahon . 10.00 Martin C. Moron . . . 10.00 
( P Lawrence B. Morgan . 100.00 Harry J. Morley . . . 10.00 John S. Mortimer . . .' 5.00 Rev. Jos. V. Moscow . 10.00 
C. W. Mulaney ... . 20.00 
C. B. Mulholland . . 25.00 Edward B. Muliclc. . . 5.00 Earl Mullin 2.00 Joseph H. Murnone . 100.00 John J. Murphy ... . 25.00 Kenneth P. Murphy . . 1.00 William H. Murphy . . 5.00 William J. Murphy . . 5.00 Donald R. Murtagh . . 5.00 John R. Nash 200.00 Joseph H. Nosh . . . 10.00 Thomas E. Nash ... . 200.00 Emmett J. Necos . . . 5.00 George J. Neumann . 5.00 Thomas E. Nolan . . . 10.00 Richard O. Norris . . 10.00 John C. Norton ... . 25.00 Joseph E. Nugent. . . 5.00 A Bernard M. O'Brien . 10.00 
" Harold R. O'Brien . . 10.00 Daniel J. O'Connor. . 20.00 Edw. G. O'Connor . . 5.00 Thos. H. O'Connell . . 1.00 Wm. J. O'Connor . . 5.00 John F. O'Dea ... . 25.00 Robert G. O'Connell. 10.00 Francis J. Oelerich . . 10.00 Frank J. Oelerich . . . 20.00 Jos. F. Oelerich ... . 10.00 Richard V. Oelerich . 10.00 Yvo T. Oester 50.00 Jas.W. O'Harc . . . 10.00 
J 
. Barry O'Keefe . . . 15.00 Joseph D. O'Keefe . . 10.00 John A. O'Leory . . . 10.00 

A.
 R. Oliver, Jr. . . . 5.00 John F. O'Loughlin . . 25.00 John F. O'Molley . . . 5.00 William L O'Molley . 5.00 


Robert D. O'Neil . . . 6.00 Fronlc J. O'Rourlte . . 5.00 
Jos. J. O'Rourlce, Jr. John C. O'Rourle . Albert V. Orr . . . . Maurice J. O'Shea . Edw. F. O'Toole . . . Robert H. CTooIe . John A. Ouslo . . . Nicholas A. Polella . 
D. C. Palermini . . . Olen L. Parks .... Geo. A. Patterson . Jos. P. Patterson . . Francis J . Paulson . Robt. P. Pendergast Thos. M. Pendergost Renzo J. Pesavento . Herbert W . Petzel . Paul J. Pfohl .... Richard L. Phelan . . Eugene W. Pilawski. William R. Plott . . Julian J. Podraio . . Vincent G. Ponic . . John E. Pontarelli . . Arthur W. Pope . . John F. Power ... . John F. Powers . . . Leo J. Powers .... 
M. K. Powers .... Clarence F. Quinlon Richard D. Quinlon . John J. Quinn ... . John P. Quirk, Jr.. . Edward P. Rafter . . Harold P. Reynolds. John P. Rinello . . . Edward J. Roach . . Thomas A. Robinson 
R. G. Rodighero , . Henry S. Romano . James A. Ronon . . Joseph M. Ronan . . Mario J. Rubinelli . Joseph P. Rud . . . . Edward B. Ryan . . . Edwin L. Ryan ... . Leo M.Sage .... 
M. J. St. George . . Q. M. St. George . . Joseph M. Scales. . Wm. E. Sconlon . . . George A. Scheuer. A. J. Schiavone . . . George V. Schmitt . John C. Schmitt . . Chos. J. Schultze . . Anthony T. Scoloro . Robert C. Scott . . Melvin J. See ... . J. P. Segerson, Jr. . W. G. Selakovich . . Patrick J . Shannon . John P. Sheehan . . Lawrence F. Sibr . . Elmer D. Silha ... . Rolph E. Sjoberg . . Robt. W. Skoglund . Edmund J. Slack . . James R. Slattery .•. John W. Slattery . . Patrick J. Smid . . . David H. Smith . . . William J. Smith . . Louis J. Spagnuolo . Edward F. Stack . . Charles R. Stanhope Fred L. Steers ... . 

10.00 Ervin A. Stefanilc .. . 5.00 
10.00 Harold J. Stelzer . . . 25.00 
10.00 Anton C. Stephen . . 100.00 
10.00 Daniel C. Stewart . . 5.00 
10.00 John J.Stewart.... 1.00 
5.00 H. C. Stickelmoier . . 2.00 
5.00 Charles E. Stine ... . 10.00 
5.00 Wm. C. Sturbitts . . . 15.00 
2.00
 Quentin C. Sturm . . 10.00 

3.00
 William J. Sturm . . . 5.00 


5.00 James G. Sullivan . . 2.00 
5.00 John J. Sullivan ... . 7.50 
2.00 John R. Sullivan ... . 10.00 

10.00 Timothy J. Sullivan . . 5.00 
10.00 David G. Swanson . . 2.00 
5.00 William J. Taylor . . . 10.00 

10.00 Thomas W. Teorney . 1.00 
50.00 Francis P. Thometz . . 3.00 
20.00 Norbert P. Tinnes. . ; 5.00 
5.00 Eugene E. Tobin . . . 10.00 
2.00 Joseph A. Toussaint . 25.00 

10.00 Norbert F. Toussaint . 5.00 
10.00 Harry M. Trousch . . . 2.0(5 
5.00 James M. Trotter . . . 25.00 
5.00 Walter R. Tylutki . . . 5.00 
5.00 Francis E. Valle ... . 10.00 
5.00 D. J. Vorraveto ... . 25.00 

10.00 John J. Voelkers .. . 50.00 
5.00 Thomas J. Walsh . . . 15.00 
LEO F. MULLIN 
2.00 E. Richard Walters . . 5.00 

Washington (D. C.) City Chairmen 
5.00 Homer F. Walters . . 15.00 
5.00 Albert F. Word ... . 2.00 

W. R.Waddington, Jr. 10.00 OowMrs Grave 10.00 Arthur C.Weinrich. . 10.00 
John G. Zarcnte . . . 1.00 Raymond E. Loy . . . 10.00 
10.00 Richard T. Whalen . . 5.00 
10.00 John B.Wheeler,Jr. . 15.00 Cicaro Easf PMrta 
10.00 Robert T. White .. . 5.00 Robert J. Hoag, Jr.. . 5.00 Corwin S.Clatt... . 5.00 
10.00 Chris B.Wilhelmy, Jr. 25.00 Robert E Lee 1.00 Stephen J. Schmidt. . 5.00 
5.00 William C. .Wilson . . 5.00 

COIHMVW* Eatf St. Uatt 
5.00 Geo. C. Witteried . . 100.00 

Jas. E. Bellinger, Jr. . 25.00 James J. Connors. . . 10.00 
2.00 Charles F. Woods . . 10.00 
Joseph B. McGlynn . 2500.00 

20.00 John R. Woods ... . 25.00 Crystal Uk a Edward F. O'Molley . 10.00 
10.00 John V. Woulfe ... . 5.00 Joseph A. Conerty, Jr. 5.00 
Robert M. Walsh . . . 25.00 
5.00 Robert E. Wright.. . 10.00 

George K. Costello . . 20.00 John E Costello 10.00 
10.00 John M. Wuerti . . . 5.00 .. . Bfia 
50.00 Lincoln E. Wurzer.. . 10.00 
Walter F. Kelley .. . 10.00 Richard G. Cannon . . 10.00 
10.00 William U. Wylie .. . 10.00 
Vernon J, Knox ... . 25.00 John C. Craddock . . 5.00 
5.00 Chester A. Wynne . . 25.00 

A. 6eorg* Costello . 200.00 Paul G . Funk 10.00 100,00 Paul M. Yaiaki ... . 15.00 
Frank A. McCarthy. . 50.00 

OaavHIa 
2.00 J. Bruce Allen 500.00 
John V. McCarthy . . 10.00 

5.00 John Balaban 500.00 John D. Belton . . . . 5.00 
Donald J. McNomaro 5.00 

10.00 H. L Brown 10.00 Lester D. Fohey . . . . 5.00 
John L McNerney . . 5.00 

5.00 Walter J. Buettner . . 200.00 Ernest F. Sedlmayr . . 10.00 
Charles F. Meyers . . 5.00 
5.00 John W. Clarke ... . 200.00 

Oacafar William T. Meyers . . 5.00 
2.00 Mrs. Laura Corbett . 100.00 
10.00 

William P. Downing . . 25.00 Elmer C. Tobin ... . 
2.00 Mr., Mrs. Wm. J. 
25.00 James W. Tobin . . . 10.00 

Raymond E. Fiedler . 
1.00 CorbeH 500.00  . . 5.00 
Stephen S. Graliker . 15.00 Mrs. E V. O'Brien 
10.00 Alfred J. Croob . . . 100.00 
B. B. Livergood . . . . 10.00 Mr., Mrs. Horry J. 
2.00 Harry D. Croolt . . . 100.00 20.00 Osborne 10.00 
Charles B. Nelson . . . 
5.00 Thomas A. Crooks . . 100.00 

Joseph W. Nelson . . 50.00 
ElMftarsf 
5.00 Querin P. Oorschel . . 100.00 

SylvesterL. Rapier . . 5.00 
Charles A. Chouffet . 25.00 
3.00 John M. Duncan . . . 25.00 

2.00 James R. Htzpatrick . 10.00 OaKafk Joseph R. Murray . . 5.00 
10.00 A. Louis Flynn 25.00 John R. Conlin ... . 20.00 E. V. Van Huisseling . 5.00 
5.00 Frank Gill 3.50 Thos. E. Courtney, Jr. 5.00 John O. Weibler . . . 2.00 
5.00 Mrs. William Gretsch 10.00 Robt. H. Gallagher . 5.00 
Elawaarf Park 

50.00 Ralph U Hubbell . . . 50.00 John C. Killian ... . 10.00 
F. A. Brichacek ... . 10.00 

1.00 J. A. Mudd, Jr.. . . . 25.00 Nicholos C. Pesut. . . 5.00 
William J. Greeley . . 1.00 
5.00 Thomas E O'Neill . 1000.00 

Otiaa Benjamin J . Mikes . . 5.00 
25.00 Charles T. Seott. . . 1000.00 
James E Bales ... . 10.00 John E Walsh, Jr. . . 10.00 
15.00 JohnC. Tully 175.00 
Sherwood Dixon ... . 10.00 
Evaasfaa 
5.00 Miss Marie H. Weber 10.00 

Paul Fry 10.00 
25.00 Al Weingart 10.00 Thos. E Adamson, Jr. 5.00 
R. Gerald Jones . . . 10.00 
William M. Archibald 3.0O 

10.00 Anton J. Wondrasek . 10.00 
David Murphy . .. . 10.00 
5.00 William B. Armel . . 100.00 
Edward S. Murphy . . 10.00 
10.00 Chicago Htlgkts John T. Bourke . . . 5.00 
5.00 Otto A. Shonder, Jr.. 10.00 OaHaa Max Burnell S.0O 
15.00 

25.00 Wilbert L. Terre . . . 25.00 Willard C. Morrey . . 5.00 George T. Demetrio 
JANUARY I TO JUNE 30, 1948 Light Face Typo—Alumni; Bold Foco Typa—Other Friends. 
19 
ARCH B. WARD Chicago City Chairman 

Wi!!iam A. Draper . . 25.00 G/enview 
Wales E. Finnegan . . 10.00 Edw. P. Byrnes, Jr. . . 10.00 
Edwin J. Hughes, Jr. . 10.00 Paul A. Rigoli 10.00 
Herald J. Johnson . . 2.00 Francis J. Rothing . . 1.00 Thos. C. Keegan, Jr. . 10.00 
Gelf 

Wolter G. Kelly.... 5.00 
A. A. Sommer, Jr. . . 10.00 
George C. Mullen . . 10.00 
Horry W. O'Boyle . . 15.00 Grant Park 
Edward L Simpson . . 10.00 
Charles A. Shirk . . . 10.00 
Albert J. Smith, Jr. . . 5.00 
Harvey 

Edmund A. Stephon . 15.00 
Angus Robinson ... . 5:00 James A. Toohey . . . 15.00 
W. Buel Stewart . . . 2.00 
Wm. LVoss.Jr..'. . . 15.00 
M. Joy Turner ... . 25.00 
Higft/and Park 

Richard S. Walsh . . . 10.00 
John V. Ryan, Jr. . . . 5.00 
Fairfield 
Higkwood 

Richard H. Keoughon 2-00 Tho mos H. Barry . . . 5.00 
Ffossmoor 
Hinsdale 

Jos. F. Driscoll, Jr. . . 50.00 
Alfred R. Westrick . . 10.00 Donald E. OToole . . 50.00 
Huntley 
Feresf Park 

Raymond J. Kelley . . 10.00 
Harry A. Baldwin . . . 10.00 
Jacksonville 

Thomas K. Reis ... . 5.00 
Edward J. Flynn . . . 10.00 
Freeporf 

2.00 Joliet Robt. J. Schmelze . . . 5.00 R. J. Boskerville ... . 5.00 Mr., Mrs. M. Douglas Dominic F. Boetto . . 10.00 
Grant 50.00 Wm. J. Bossingham . . 10.00 Harold H. Bowler . . . 5.00 
Galesburg 

Joseph L Brady . . . 5.00 
Edwin A. Graham . . 5.00 
Wode J. Brady ... . 25.00 
J. C. Redington, Jr. . 5.00 
William J. Coyne . . . 2.00 
John H. Weber ... . 10.00 
Francis A. Dunn ... . 10.00 
Geneva 

Simon T. Forrell ... . 10.00 Eugene Jaeger . . . 5.00 
John H. Horrigon . . 5.00 
R. F. Rowbottom . . 5.00 
Jos. V. Kirincich . . . . 10.00 
Chas. F. Lennon . . . 5.00 
Clare C. Leser ... . 10.00 
Glencoe 

Wm. J. Corbett, Jr. 100.00 
Edward J. Mayer . . . 10.00 
John W. Hosbein . . 25.00 
P. F. McForland, Jr. . 10.00 
Wm. P. Young, Jr. . 15.00 
John R. Menseng .. . 1.00 
G/ea Ellyn 

Arthur Smith, Jr. . . . 5.00 Jacob L Leisen . . . 10.00 
Thomas E Tolty ... . 5.00 Edgar H. Stroot, Jr. 5.00 
Raymond J. Trizna . . 10.00 
Ray C. Whipple  .. .  10.00  
Charles L  White .. .  10.00  
Donald F. Wise ... .  10.00  

Xankato* 
Daniel E. Holwell .' . . 5.00 
Kenilworffe 
Saverio J. Alonzi . . . 5.00 John A. Breen, Jr. .. . 20.00 Robt. W. Hargrove .' 10.00 Robert W. Kuipers . . 5.00 
Xewaae* 
Philip H. Kirley ; . . . 5.00 Samuel J. Rinella . . . 20.00 Thomas J. Welch . . . 25.00 
LoGrang* 
John L Bonks 5.00 Cyril T. Birkbeck .. . 15.00 Ronald H. Carter . . 2.00 Leo B. Garland ... . 5.00 Robert E O'Donnell . 5.00 Joseph R.Thesing . . . 10.00 
Lake Villa 
Jos. E. Williamson . . 10.00 
LaSMe 
Wolter Duncan . . , 1000.00 
UberfyvIHt 
Francis X. Graham . . 20.00 
Lincelawootf 
Arthur J. Woods . . . 5.00 
UfcMeld 
James E Godfrey . . 1.00 Michael F. Godfrey . 1.00 
Loekporf 
Donold L Rigoni-. . . 2.00 
Loaibard 
John F. Burke • 5.00 John L Denniston . . 5.00 
Lyons 
Byron E. Martin ... . 5.00 
Uaeomb 
George E Purdum . . 20.00 
Moafeae 
John A. Voichulus. . . 20.00 
iMaffooa 
Paul F. Grant 10.00 Robert N. Loughlin . . 25.00 Bernard J. Sullivan . . 25.00 
Mayweed 
Walter B. LoBerge . . 2.00 John C. McClure .. . 1.00 Jos. P. McKeown . . . 35.00 Andrew J. Puplis . . . 5.00 
Meadota 
Jos. J. Besenfelder . . 3.00 Ralph C. Madden . . 5.00 
Uerma 
Robert J. Kelley . . . 10.00 
MidloWaa 
William M. Hallauer . 6.00 
Miaoak 
Edward F. Riely. . . . 10.00 
Mokeaa 
William J. Weber . . 10.00 
Moliae 
William F. Bernbrook . 10.00 John R. Coryn ... . 10.00 Jerome S. Culligon . . 5.00 

MeaMac* 
Henry Mackin, Jr. . . 10.00 Edward N. Murray . . 5.00 John A. Parish ... . 5.00 Vamum A. Parish . . . 10.00 
Daniel J. O'Neill . . 
Theo. C. Ostrowski . 
William E. Quirk . . 
Leo F. Raymond, Jr. 
Joseph L Rigali . . 
Robert E. Rock . . . 
M. J. Romano, Jr. . John M. Sconlon . . Chas. A. Schuessler. Raymond T. Schuster John P. Shofronsky . Gerald J. Spohn . . John J. Staunton . . John F. Thornton . . Herbert P. Walker . 
Olacy 
James H. Butler. . . 
Geo. T. Weber, Jr. . 
OHawa 
Robert C. Carr . . . 
William D. Clark . . 
Donald F. Guyette . 
Jerome F. Herlihy . 
A.W.Miller 
Geo. W. O'Laughlin 
Robt. E Pierson . . . 
R. E. Schwarzboch . Robert J. Sinon . . . 
Palafiae 
Paul P. Goodman . . . 
Paris 
Leonard H. Wolfe . . 
Park Ridge 
H. E Clark, Jr. .. . . Thoddeus H. Harvey . Geo. J. Jeschke, Jr. . Anthony J. Maliek . . James A. Murray, Jr.. Robert D. Stephen . . 
Peoria 
John H. Amberg . . . Louis E. Amberg . . . William L. Appal . . . Francis J. Brady . . . Thomas H. Conor, . , Jos. McD. Coogon . . Louis F. Crystal . . . . Lester D. DeTrempe . John W. Gilbert . . . Albert F. Gury, Jr. . . Roger D. Gustofson . Daniel J. Hecht. . . . Wm. H. Holbrook . . Wm. J. Motsett . . . Frank H. Murphy . . . 
S. Paul Roork Roland A. Rouleau . . John A. Scherer . . . John O. Scherer . . . Leo S. Schroll Eugene R. Slevin . . . 
J. L Slevin Alexander L. Sloan . John F. Sloan, Jr. . . Donald P. Smith . . . . Horry M. Weakley . . John H. Mitchell . . . Thomas H. Zosly . . . 
Pefersbarg 
John L. Luthringer . . 
Poafiae 
Jesse J. Herr John D. Murphy . . . John R. Vicars . . . . 
50.00 50.00 
5.00 10.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 600.00 

Meaieo 
James E Harmon . . 
.Meafieelle 
Vincent T. Walsh . . . 
Morris 
Thomas B. Dunn ... . Robert E Mack ... . 
Morrlsea 
Carl E Qmnn 

Morfea Grove 
Robert J. Gontner . . 
Mf. Caroiel 
J. A. Henneberger . . 
R. L Henneberger . . Francis J. Wolf . .. . 
Mf. Prospect 
John J. Griffin ... . 
Ut. SUrilmg 
George E Krupps . . 
Mt. Veraoa 
J. Walter Duncan, Jr. 
Norfb CUeago 
John H. Tallett.... 
Norft Riverside 
Chas. W. O'Reilly . . 
OaUawa 
Orlando A. Bonicelli . 
Oak Park 
Joseph P. Arens, Jr. . Wm.H . Bromann, Jr.. John L Buckley. . . . Charles C. Collins . . Edward A. Cogley, Jr. Paul P. Colianni . . . James B. Cormack . . Joseph R. Donlan . . Martin A. Donlan . . . William E. Doyle . . . Herbert A. Eggert . . Virgil P. Fagan ... . George R. Fenn .... John J. Francis ... . John E Garceou . . . Daniel S. Gibbs, Jr.. . John P. Gorman . . . Thomas A. Gorman . . Walter V. Hart, Jr. . Ernest C. Hechinger . Charles M. Kelsey . . Thomas J. Kennedy. . Edwin J. Lahey .... William F. Lewis . . . 
C. W. Marquodt, Jr.. Robt. L Marquodt. . Robt. E McCormick . Robert J. McEvoy . . William J. McGoh . . John P. McNulty . . . Bernard F. Meagher . John M. Montague . . John T. Moron .... Edmund L Morrissey . Robert V. Mullen . . . 
R. A. O'Connell . . . Frank E O'Dowd, Jr.. James C. O'Keefe . . William F. O'Leory . . 
 1.00  20.00 
 10.00  10.00 
 5.00 
 5.00 
 15.00  15.00  11.00  15.00 
 5.00  50.00 
 5.00 
 5.00 
 10.00  10.00  10.00 
 100.00  50.00  10.00  10.00  2.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  25.00  5.00  5.00  25.00  5.00  10.00  75.00  10.00  5.00  15.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  30.00  3.00  10.00  1.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  25.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  15.00  1.00 

Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATION 
20 

Qaiaey Wm. H. Comstock . . 2.00 WiiaeHe 
Henry W. Bernbrock . 10.00 Chos. G. Corcoran . . 10.00 Lyman J. Clark . . . . 
Lawrence F. Moller . . 5.00 James W. Costa . . . 1.00 Philip A. Costello . . . 
Lando E. Howard . . . 5.00 Franklyn E. Doan . . . 
Koafeal 

Rev. Jas. P. O'Horo . 25.00 James L. Ferstel . . . 
^ John F. Landry ... . 25.00 Albert C. Schlipf . . . 50.00 James W. Ford . . . . 
River ^eresf William H. Stelte . . 1.00 Edward A. Fox .. . . 
James H. Brennan . . 25.00 Thomas J. Vicars . . . 5.00 John S. Gleason, Jr. . 
Thomas P. Brogan . . 5.00 Ira W. Hurley . . . . 
St. Cbaries 

Edward A. Buenger. . 25.00 Leon Marinello . . . . 
Karl J..Gartner, Jr.. . 5.00 
William E Buenger. . 25.00 Walter J. Metzger . . Richard C. Byrne .. . 1.00 Sketie G. David Murphy . . . John T. Clark 10.00 Robert J. Rohrbach . 5.00 Thomas C. Noonan . . Raymond W. Durst: . 250.00 John A. Schneider . . 2.00 Howard V. Phalin . . . Wm. H. Fromm, Jr. . 15.00 Norman H. Ransteod 
Sferliag 

Edward F. Hoban . . . 5.00 Albert S. Solvi . . . . 
Joseph H. Bittorf . . . 100.00 
Bruce J. Holmberg . . 15.00 Reynolds C. Seitz . . . 
Lowrence E. Burke. . . 5.00 
Jomes P. Hasty ... . 2.00 Thomas W. Sextan . . 
Francis H. Curran . . 2.00. 
Thos. E. Hosly, Jr. . . 10.00 Jos. D. Shelly 
Richard E. Froeter . . 5.00 
Neil C. Hurley, Jr. . . 25.00 
Donald A. Hennessy . 10.00 Wilmiagfea John B. McKeon . . . 2.00 
2.00 Alfred A. Agamy , . . 

Roger J. O'Connor . . 25.00 
Robt. A. McDonnell . 5.00 John R. Agamy ... . 
George P. O'Doy . . . 50.00 
Tim J. Sullivan . . . . 100.00 
Chos. T. Smallwood . . 20.00 Wiaaefka 
Warren P. Wohl . . . 10.00 
A. S. Walloch, Jr. . . 3.00 Thos. H. Beocom, Jr. . 
Edward J. Froeter . . 5.00 
John W. Dorgan . . . 
River Grove 

Sfreofor Anonymous Joseph N. Wischnio . 10.00 
Robert E. Conness . . 25.00 Joseph T. Dorgon . . Hiyerslde James J. Walsh ... . 5.00 Robert F. Grahom . CONDON, JR. Francis P. Creadon . . 20.00 Wm. P. Keorney . . City Chairman 
Sycamore 

g ^ James P. Donehy . . . 20.00 John C. Quinlon . . 
James E. Boyle ... . 5.00 
Richard P. Robinson . 5.00 James E. Sanford . . 
frewBsbarg Anthony J. DeDario . 10.00 George L. Supplitt . 25.00 Henry A. Slomen, Jr. 
Edward Brower ... . 5.00 
George E. Harbert. . 25.00 Robert L Gavin . . . 5.00 John F. Duffy 10.00 Claude W. Tourek . . 25.00 A. C. Stepon, Jr. . . 
Robert F. Haltz ... . 10.00 Taylorville Luke J. Tiernan . . . Cfcalaien 
Roberts Edw. A. LoRocque . . 10.00 Geo. W. Johnson - . . 10.00 Mr., Mrs. Thos. F. William R. Barr . . . . 10.00 Martin J. Rock ... . 10.00 
R. E Proctor, Sr. . . . 125.00 
McNally 
100.00 

TiskilwG Ciiatea Joseph Gross 5.00 
RobiosoB 

Francis S. Russell . . . 25.00 MTood Dale Donald J. Marietta . . 4.00 Italian-Americon William E. Bradbury . 5.00 
Relief Assn 100.00 

Paul A. Marietta . . . 5.00 
John S. Rahe 20.00 
Toluca 
Roefcelle Elweod 

Bernard J. Ghiglieri . 5.00 Wood River Cofaaibas Vincent F. Carney . . 200.00 
James J. Conner . . . 5.00 

Joseph J. Borr ... . 5.00 Paul F. O'Neill ... . 10.00 
TreafoB 

John J. Gainer ... . 10.00 Charles E. Dell ... . 10.00 
Evaasviile Roekford James R. Hilger . . . 25.00 
John L. Glonzer ... . 10.00 
Woodstock Kenneth H. Cossidy . 10.00 James R. Bakemon . . 10.00 
Virgil Joseph P. Hilger . . . 25.00 Wm. M. Carroll, Jr. . 2.00 
Henry C. Dewes . . . 10.00 Robert F. Doyle . . . 100.00 Vincent A. Schuh . . . 50.00 
Wm. M. Carroll. Sr. . 25.00 Coaaersvillc Stephen A. Ensner . . 10.00 
James H. Dunn, Jr. . 250.00 
Wopella Geo. A. Heineman . . 15.00 J. H. Fendrich ... . 200.00 
Clyde J. Zoia .... . 15.00 

John W . Hitchcox . . 5.00 
Francis T. Greene . . . 25.00 Wm . T. Fitzgerald . . 25.00 Clifford F. Hyland . . 10.00 
Crowfordsvilfe 
John F. Gaither . . . 5.00 William J. Leonard . 1.00 Wasftiagfon William W. Runge . . 5.00 
INDIANA F. Minton Hortz . . . 50.00 Elbridge M. Lorden . . 25.00 Thos. H. Geselbrocht 5.00 Raymond E. Swanson . 10.00 
Ralph F. Heger ... . 80.40 
>llexaadria 

Edward J. Rogers . . 10.00 Edward E. Hobecker . 10.00 
Crowa folat Robert S. Lamey . . . 5.00 
Theodore F. Smith . . 5.00 

Alfred G. Rubly . . . 15.00 
Wafseka Charles P. Moloney . 25.00 F. Wendell Lensing . . 5.00 ^ John J.Wahl,Jr.. . . 5.00 
>ladersoa John M. Rohrbach . . 25.00 Wm. C. Moorehead . 10.00 O Francis H. Word . . .. 5.00 
Jos. W. Meitzler, Jr. . 25.00 
James F. Carson . . 5.00 Joseph C. O'Kone . . 5.00 
Waaeoado Oaeatar 
Rock fs/aad Joseph R. Rudd ... . 10.00 
Walter F. Jones, Jr. 5.00 

Jas. A. Holthouse . . 5.00 
Mr., Mrs. Phillip Edw. M. Stubblefield . 10.00 

Edmund J. Meagher . 50.00 
Froehlke 15.00 ilarora OefpM Edward F. Theis. . . . 10.00 
Stephen C. Miller. . . 10.00 
Robert F. Cutter . . 1.00 

Robert W. Moron . . 5.00 Waakegoa Byrom T. Crosby . . . 10.00 Paul C. Thole 10.00 Philip J, Tompkins . . 5.00 
George A. Uhlmeyer . 25.00 John E. Bower 5.00 •atesvillc Richard E. Hough . . 10.00 Paul F. Unverzogt. . . 10.00 
Vance N. Uhlmeyer . 5.00 Charles J. Foley . . . . 25.00 Paul C. Romweber . . 100.00 Dagger Norman J, Waninger. 10.00 
Arnold A. Maes . . . 6.00 Anonymous 300.00 
Salem David M. Lippeatt . 25.00 
Bernard E Witucki . . 10.00 

L. J. Petroshius ... . 5.00 
Anthony W. Crowley . 75.00 
ledford 

Armiger H. Sommers . 10.00 Oyer fort Wayae John C. Finneron . . . 10.00 
Clarence J. Donovan . 25.00 Robt. T. Johnson .. . 10.00 
Richard P. App . . . . 10.00 
West Irookiya 

Seaeeo Louis C. Heitger . . . 10.00 
Edward J. Baker . . . 15.00 

Oliver L. Gehont . . . 10.00 Cost Cklcago George H. Baldus . . 20.00 
Fred J. Sheedy ... . 3.00 Robert H. Heitger . . 10.00 
Paul J. Anderson . . . 100.00 Sboanoa Paul H. Beorman .. . 1.00 
Marshall S. Wallner . 20.00 
We%f FraaUorf 

Thos. W. Callahan . . 10.00 William R. Schormon . 5.00 John L. Haff 5.00 •looaiiagtea Norbert G. BerghofF . 100.00 
Frank A. Cinczon . . . 5.00 Robert W. Schramm . Maurice J. Bolond . .
 10.00 

SHvis Wetiera Spriags 2.00 William J. Riley . . . 25.00 
A. J. Centlivre ... . 20.00 

Jos. W. Mehring, Jr. . 10.00 Anthony J. Suty.... 2.00 
Cyril U. Nolan ... . 5.00 freaica H. G. Centlivre ... . 5.00 
L. H. Skoglund, Jr. . . 25.00 N. S. WIeklinski.... 5.00 
Spriagfield Hurdis D. Dausman . 5.00 M. J. deary 200.00 Michael J. Besso . . . 5.00 WkeatoB Samuel E. Lemon . . . 2.00 BUmrt Joseph P. Colligan . . 25.00 John M. Carrol ... . 25.00 George A. Binder . . . 10.00 Francis X. Schoefer . . 2.00 William E. Case . 15.00 Maurice J. DeWald . 5.00 Thomas P. Cody . . . 10.00 John R. Waters, Jr.. . 25.00 Charles Ochstem . 25.00 Maurice C. Davis. 5.00 Paul C. DeWald . . . 10.00 
JANUARY I TO JUNE 30, 1948 Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. 
21 
RALPH F. HEGER Evansville (Ind.) City Chairman 

Robert F. DeWald Edward J. Disser . Richard T. Doermer Rabert F. Eggemon Louis A. Fox . . . John R. Good . . . Robert K. Gordon Herman HafFner . 
Richord A. Hortmoi 
Henry Hasley . . . 
C. Byron Hayes . . Walter J. Hein . . Alfred J. Hiegel . Edward W. Hoch . Arthur F. Hoffman 
R. J. Hoffman . . . Francis M. Hogon Harry G. Hogon . Edward L Hultgren Henry J. Humbrecht Bernard T. Kearns James F. Keenan . John W. Kenny . . 
R. E. Lenhard . . . John H. Logan, Jr 
F. Leslie Logon . . Joseph J. Madden James C. McArdle Richard B. McArdle Francis P. McCarthy Jos. E. McClintock 
D. P. McDonold . . 
D. P. McDonald, Jr. James F. McGill . Thos. A. McKiernan Arthur W. Miller . Gerald Morsches . Louis F. Niezer . . Robert L O'Brien . Jerome J. O'Dowd Joseph T. O'Reilly Robert E O'Reilly Charles R. Poinsatte James A. Poinsatte Charles J. Reuss . 
10.00 5.00 5.00 15.00 100.00 5.00 15.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 20.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 15.00 
1000.00 5.00 10.00 15.00 25.00 7.50 10.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 15.00 5.00 5.00 100.00 15.00 10.00 25.00 5.00 15.00 100.00 10.00 5.00 15.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 50.00 
John L Reuss . . . 
Paul Sagstetter . . 
Richard E. Scheele 
N. J. Schenkel . . Frank J . Schick . . 
F. D. Schoppmon . James C. Sexton . David Skory .... John F. Slater . . Kenneth M. Slusher Robt- F. Sosenheimer Edw. S. Sullivan ­Martin P. Torborg Leonord A. Wall . Clifford B. Word . 
F. J. Wemhoff, Jr. Edwin J. Wesner .. John W. Wynn, Jr. 
R. J. BerghofF . . . Clarence Getz . . Goodwin, Rosenbaum^ 
Meachom & Bailen Magnavox Found.. . 
Anonymous Chester C. Oberly . Peoples Tr. & Savings Vincent P. Reilly . . William C. Slater. . 
FranUorf 
Earl F. Gruber ... . 
Poul J. Meifeld ..... William G. Thomas. . 
Gary 
Clarence W. Bader. Paul J. Boyle .... Jas. E. Cassidy, Jr. . Thos. H. Clifford, Jr. Williom V. Clifford . Thomas J. Connor . Donald L Elser . . . Harry Geohegon . . 
Richard A. Hall . . Francis J. Hannabach 
Richard W . Kelly . . . 

25.00 40.00 100.00 25.00 15.00 5.00 20.00 1.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 50.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 408.20 10.00 
250.00 2000.00 
50.14 100.00 1000.00 100.00 10.00 
 50.00 
 20.00  10.00 
100.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 
Francis J. Louerman . Paul R. Lenahan . . . William M. Lower . . Thomas J. McKenna . Stephen F. Nyikos . . James F. Purcell . . . Thos. J. Radigon . . . Arnold A. Wiener. . . 
GasCMy 
Henry P. Degen ... . Robert V. Sloan ... . 
Geskca 
M. C. Hershfield .. . Robert W. Juday . . . Robert M. Rink, Sr.. . Philip R. Sheridan . . 
Graager 
Bernord J. Feoney . . 
Greeasbarg 
Urban E. Link John C. Thomas . . . 
Hoaiaead 
Thos. F. Banigon . . . Hugh E. Carroll . . . John L Ethier Frank J. Golvin ... . Stephen P. Kropac . . Anthony S. Kuharich . Robt. E Livingstone . Albert J. La Mere. . . Francis D. Meyer . . . James R. Morrison . . Frederick J . Rovoi . . Anthony R. Schreiner. Joseph J. Sobek . . . William L Travis . . . 
Hartford CHy 
Robert P. Cronin . ; . 
HaabttaM 
Raymond G. Ziliak . . 
Higtiaad 
Roy A. Schoub ... . 
Haafiagfoa 
Francis A. Fink ... . Paul A. Monoski . . . Paul G. Trixler ... . 
fadiaaapellt 
Joseph H. Argus . . . William J. Ash ... . Joseph G. Beck ... . 
E. Richard Biggins . . George A. Bischoff. . Michael A. Bisesi . . . James W. Boehning . James D. Bowen . . . Clyde T. Bowers . . . . Charles M. Brown . . Thomas R. Bulger. . . 
M. S. Byrnes, Jr. . . . Francis M. Carey. . . John F. Carr Michael J. Carr... . James D. Collins . . . 
N. J. Connor, Jr. . . . Marion J. Craney . . Andrew M. Crowe . . Edw. F. Cunningham . PouIC. Deery Thomas L Downard . Michael J. Duffecy,. . Joseph G. Duffey . . . Henry K. Engel .... John J. Fearon .... 
 5.00 
 15.00 
 5.00  10.00  15.00  5.00  25.00  15.00 
 5.00  25.00 
 5.00  1.00  25.00  5.00 
 10.00 
 5.00  5.00 
 5.00  .50.00  5.00  50.00  1.00  10.00  1.00  2.00  20.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  25.00 
 15.00 
 5.00 
 50.00 
 25.00  20.00  5.00 
 10.00  50.00  10.00  7.50  25.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  2.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  25.00  50.00 
 2.00  15.00 
 5.00 

Donald H. Felts ... . 3.00 Edward J. Fisher . . . 10.00 John A. Fisher ... . 5.00 Patrick J . Fisher . . . 10.00 James Fitzgerald . . . 20.00 
T. M. Fitzgerald, Jr. . 35.00 John F. Ford 5.00 Harvey G. Foster... 1.00 David J. Fox 5.00 Francis R. Fox 5.00 
R. Michael Fox . . . .• 10.00 
H. L Frommeyer, Jr. . 15.00 Leo P. Gauss 10.00 Chas. J . Gillespie . . 5.00 John M. Gloska. . . . 10.00 Wilfred B. Habing . . 10.00 John W. Hannon, Jr.. 5.00 John D. Harrington . . 5.00 Richard J. Herberg . 5.00 Wm. M. Hollond, Jr.. 25.00 Walter W. Houppert.. 25.00 Joseph M. Hughes . . 10.00 Donald R. Hurst . . . 5.00 
J 
. Paul Johnson ... . 500.00 Charles E Kosberg . . 1.00 Richard J. Kasberg . . 1.00 Robert H. Kasberg . . 5.00 Leroy J. Keoch, Jr.. . 10.00 Leroy J. Keoch, Sr.. . 100.00 Eugene J . Kelley . . . 10.00 Wm. E Kennedy, Jr. . 25.00 Edwin T. Kilrain, Jr.. . 5.00 Robert E Kirby ... . 25.00 Benedict T. Koebel . . 2.00 Kenneth J. Konop . . 5.00 William H. Konop . . 5.00 

A.
 L Franzfelder . . . 10.00 John T. Lanohon . . - 5.00 

O.
 P. Larson, Jr. . . . 10.00 Francis J . Lauck . . . 5.00 John H. Lauck ... . 11.00 Joseph A. Lauck . . . 5.00 Francis J. Lennartz . . 10.00 William L Leppert. . 25.00 Bernard T. Loeffler . . 10.00 Robert J . Loughery. . 10.00 

F.
 L Mohaffey ... . 100.00 Elbert W . Mahoney . 10.00 Theo. P. Marbough . . 50.00 Charles E Mason . . . 20.00 Robert A. Massey . . 10.00 Robert R. McMonus . 5.00 Edgar C. McNamora 5.00 James E McNamora 10.00 John P. McNomara . 10.00 Jos. M. McNamora . 5.00 Rev. J.-F. McShane . 20.00 John J. McShane . . . 10.00 Harry Metzger ... . 25.00 Sebastian J. Miller . . 10.00 William J. Mooney . . 100.00 Robt. B. Moynohon . . ' 15.00 James E Murphy . . . 5.00 Vincent G. Nagy . . . 5.00 Russell R. Neol ... . 5.00 James G. Newland . . 10.00 John J. O'Brien ... . 5.00 George T. O'Connor . 5.00 John C. O'Connor . . 10.00 Thos. J. O'Connor . . 5.00 Wm. S. O'Connor . . 5.00 William O'Mara . . . 5.00 James R. Osgood . . 10.00 Merritt M. Otto . . . 5.00 Richard K. Owens . . 25.00 Richard J . Pfeiffer . . 5.00 

F.
 W. Pfortner ... . 10.00 


Clarence J. Pickord . 10.00 Donald A. Potter . . . 5.00 Stanly W.Pyritz. . . . 5.00 Joseph F. Quill . . . . 2.00 Joseph W. Quinlan . . 10.00 Francis B. Quinn . . . 5.00 Paul S. Rogan, Jr. . . 7.50 
M. B. Reddington . . . 203.60 
5.00 Trueman T. Rembusc! 50.00 James E Rocop, Jr. . 5.00 John T. Rocap . . . . 5.00 
H. P. Rockwell, Jr. . 5.00 Robert L Ross . . . . 5.00 Horry J. Ryan . . . 10.00 Horry E. Scott . . . 25.00 
W. L Sexton .... 25.00 George R. Sippel . . 5.00 Charles M. Smith . . 5.00 
J. Albert Smith . . . 10.00 Paul J. Smith ... . 50.00 William T. Snyder . . 5.00 Jos. A. Spycholski . 5.00 
W. J. Sluhldreher . 5.00 
G. Donald Sullivan . 10.00 Thomas M. Sweeney 2.00 Lawrence E. Turner . 2.00 Thomas J. Umphrey 10.00 James A. Vorga . . 10.00 Joseph V. Walker . 3.00 John A. Welch . . . 25.00 John R. Welch . . . 5.00 Thomas A. Welch . . 5.00 Hugh Francis Welsh 1.00 
F. P. Zietlow 10.00 
Richard K. Zimmerly 2.00 10.00 25.00 
Jasper 
Omer O. Sturm . . . 5.00 
Keafload 
Ralph E. Bower . . . 15.00 Eugene L Molter. . 4.00 
Xewaaaa 
Michael L Hines, Jr. 10.00 
Kaez 
Robert J. Corey , . 2.00 
Xokeaie 
John J. Carey . . . 10.00 Patrick J. Corey . . 10.00 Harold J. Druecker. 25.00 
200.00 John L. Kiley ... . 100.00 John P. Krebser . . . 25.00 Joseph C. Perkins . . 10.00 James L. Sheerin . . 37.00 Mark E. Zimmerer . . 100.00 Garland Rathel. . . . 100.00 Geo. R. Vandenboseh 10.00 
Lafayttfe 
Kenneth F. Laws . . . 25.00 Francis J. Murphy . . 25.00 
L. A. O'Connor . . . . 50.00 Michael T. Ricks . . . 5.00 Charles L Vaughon . 450.00 John P. Young . . . . 10.00 
LaFoaafa/ac 
Thomas H. Hordman . 1.00 
LaPorfe 
George B. Kashmer. . 10.00 Michael J. Lahey . . . 5.00 Francis J. Lanigan . . 5.00 Howard D. Murdock . 9.00 

Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATION 
22 

Lawrtaetbarjr Leo P. Van Rie . . . . 100.00 PlyaMafb 
J. P. Htipalrick ... . 5.00 E. Spencer Walton . . 5.00 GeroldJ. Boll 15.00 Roger L Fuetter . . . 10.00 Ray K. Winey 5.00 Vincent F. Ball ... . 25.00 
G. A. Zimmerman . . 5.00 Howard Hilles, Jr. . . 5.00 
LtbaaoB 
Marshall F. Kiier . . . 25.00 

John C. Cole 3.00 Moafietlle 
Charles F. Nelson . . . 4.00 

George R. Sullivon . . 5.00 
Uafoa Patricic F. Size ... . 15.00 Ma/berry 
PoseirWIlt 

Warner A. Reising . . 5.00 LogoBsporf Robert L. Clark . . . . 12.00 
James E. Digan ... . 25.00 PrIaeHom
Maaefe 

Edward T. Hictey . . 10.00 F. J. Henneberger . . 25.00 
Howard R. DeVault , 15.00 
Thomas L Keefe . . . 25.00 Arthur E. Miller ... . 10.00 
Harry B. Hart .... 5.00 
Thomas G. Medland . 15.00 
Norbert W. Hart. . . 5.00 Mebaieacl MarloB John C. Hynes .... 5.00 
J. R. Harrington . . . 100.00 James W . Corbett . 10.00 Wm . S. MocDonald . 5.00 J. F. Horrington, Jr. . 10.00 
F. X. Gortland, Jr. , 10.00 Charles M. Pieroni . . 5.00 
Edward J. Huether . . 25.00 Jas. M. Gartland . 25.00 Mario James Pieroni 5.00 
Norman B. Jenkins . . 200.00 

M. F. Gartland . . . 20.00 Robt. M. Preston . . . 5.00 
Thos. Ryan Jenkins . . 50.00 Philip J. Kiley 10.00 Frederick E. "Watson . 15.00 
Samuel M. Kitchin . . 5.00 Robert P. Kiley ... . 10.00 Chas. M. Quigley. . . 5.00 
Maasfer 

James P. Mooney . . . 5.00 Patrick F. Quigley . 5.00 
Charles R. Bickel . . . 10.00 
John T. Rademoker. . 10.00 Oren C. Stiens . . . . 100.00 
John R. Tinkle 5.00 
New AlboBf 

W. E. Brennan . • . . 25.00 Wm . H. Garner, Jr. . 10.00 
Verlin Brown ... . . 50.00 
Mlcft/goa Cify 

Wm. J. Kaiser .... 5.00 
D. J. Castelluccio . . . 10.00 

Arthur L Bradley . . 15.00 
Marvin E. Pinaire . . . 

10.00 Albert J. Corsi . . . . 10.00 
Francis G. Fedder . . 25.00 
Harold F. Wismann . 1.00 
Charles Davis ... . . 25.00 

William H. Graham . 5.00 William Griffin . . . 5.00 
Lorenzo A. Glasscott. 10.00 New Carlisle THOMAS A. McKIERNAN 
T. B. Jenkins . 600.00 

Robert E. Glasscott . 25.00 I. E. Sondmeier ... . 5.00 Fort Wayne (Ind.) City Chairman Mrs. T. B. Jenkins . . . 400.00 
Thomas M. Kerrigan . 5.00 
Ne w Koss 
Les Johnson . 1.00 

Thomas M. Kiley . . . 1.00 
Francis X. Bradley . . 5.00 William W. Dominic . Frank W. Leahy ... . 25.00 
Robt. G. Whilecotton 10.00  . .  50.00 
Harry G. Kitchin . 

Jos. A. BraunsdorF . . 5.00 John V. Donahue . . . Robert L. Morske . . . 10.00 Norf b Maacbesf er 
James Larkin ... . 5.00 

Wm. H. Braunsdorf. . 5.00 M. Edward Doran . . William A. Pfister . . . 5.00  . . 
Ralph F. Miller . . . . 10.00 Joy P. Oppenheim 5.00 10.00 John Thomas Doyle. . Chorles F. Pilliard . . 75.00 
Joseph Neissboch . . 10.00 

John B. Brehmer . . . 5.00 Joseph P. Doyle . . . . Williom J. Schmuhl . . 10.00 
Norfb Veraon Joseph P. Quigley . . 5.00 
Patrick Brennan . . . . 5.00 Vincent Thos. Doyle . .
Joseph T. Doron .. . 1.00 George B. Stiens . . . 25.00 
MMd/ebuiy Willord F. Brien . . . . 7.50 Walter L Dray . . . . 
Leo H. Weiss . . . . 50.00 Lamar E. Gohn ... . 5.00 
Noire Dame Walter F. Brodbeck. . 5.00 Joseph D. Dreibelbus. Anonymous 1.00 Roebesfer Louis V. Bruggner. . . 25.00 Horry S. Driggs . . . . 
UMawaka 

Redmond J. Allman . 5.00 H. A. Barnhart ... . 10.00 Jacob E. Burke . . . . 5.00 Charles W. Duke . . . Russell H. Arndt . . . 5.00 
Thomas P. Bergin . . . 5.00 John N. Cackley, Jr. . 10.00 Donald J. Easley . . . Thos. E. Both, Jr. . . . 100.00 
RolHag Prafrie 

Eugene T. Bollt ... . 1.00 Robert M. Cahill . . . 20.00 James A. Egon . . . . Charles W. DeGroote 10.00 
Froncis R. Beoudine . 1.00 Paul Byrne 25.00 David L Campbell. . 5.00 Donn G. Ehrich . . . . Albert J. Brasseur . . 10.00 
Theo. P. Cummings . . 5.00 Roselatd Lawrence E. Carr, Jr. 5.00 Geo. M. Eichler. . . . 
Robert A. Brucker . . 10.00 
Geo. F. Driscoll ... . 10.00 Geo. G. O'Brien, Jr. 20.00 Joseph L Carroll. . . 5.00 Edw. G . Farrell, Jr. . 
John W. Conboy . . . 2.00 
Cornelius T. Ducey . . 2.00 Joseph J. Casasanta . 10.00 F. S. Farrington . . . . Roymond L. DeCook . 5.00 S6e/byvHle 
Amedee Dugas . . . . • 5.00 William J. Cerney . . 50.00 F. Gerard Feeney . . . Michael E. Derbin . . 5.00 Joseph B. Forrell . . . 10.00 Francis J. Rehme . . . 10.00 Louis C. Chopleou . . 100.00 Paul A. Fergus . . . . Albert L Doyle .... 12.50 
Gustav J. Cholis . . . 3.00 Lowrence 1. Ferguson. John C. Freeman . . . 2.00 
Wm. Edw. Fender . . 1.00 
Sooth lead 

Louis L. Hosley ... . 10.00 Louis R. Chreist, Jr. . 5.00 Donald W. Fisher. . . 
25.00 Max Adler 5.00 
Clarence H. Futter . . Jerome B. Hayes . . . 2.00 Benedict J. Chung . . 5.00 Allen M. Foley . . . . 
Richard A. Sanser . . 10.00 Arnold D. Altmon . . . 10.00 
Robert B. H. Forbes . Charles R. Gerord . . 1.00 Herman S. Altmon . , 5.00 
Vincent P. Hogon . . . 10.00 Donald H. Claeys .,. 25.00 
Daniel A. Clark ... . 25.00 Maurice N. Frank. . . R^ James F. Gormeley . . 5.00 Nathan D. Altmon . . 10.00 Maurice Cohen ... . 25.00 William J. Fretaque . 
Edw. S. Kavonough . . 10.00 
James O. Knobloch . 3.00 
•• Robert A. Holmes . . 5.00 W. John Andrews. . . 5.00 
Robt. H. McAulifFe . . lO.OO Walter T. Condon . . 10.00 H. M. Friend 
Elmer J. Komm .... 10.00 Erwin C. Aronowski. . 20.00 
James M. Constantin. 2.00 Robert J. Frost ... . Gerald A. Komm . . . 
Jos. B. McNerthney . 2.00 
10.00 James E. Armstrong . 50.00 
Thomas P. Madden . 10.00 Kelly F. Cook 2.00 William J. Furey . . . 
10.00 Alfred J. Artz 15.00 
Wilber A. Komm . . . Posquole Pirchio . . . 25.00 Alexis Coquillard . . . 25.00 Edw. R. Gallagher . . Edmund C. Kowalski . 10.00 William D. Ayres . . . 10.00 
.

Julian R. Pleasants . . 1.00 G. E Cosgrove, Jr.. 5.00 Richard J. Garab . . 
 . . . 

Alden E. Lenhard . . . 10.00 John F. Plouff 5.00 William R. Baker 10.00 Francis E. Crosiar . . . 1.00 Irving Garnitz 
Dole E. Lovell 10.00 L. H. Baldinger ... . 5.00 
James B. Rice 5.00 J. J. Crowley, Jr.. . . 50.00 Eugene L Seyer . . . John W. McDowell . . 5.00 Richard L. Barbier . . 5.00 
F. Jos. Romano ... . 2.00 Robert Jos. Curtin . . 10.00 William J. Gibbons. . Joseph J. McGuire . . 5.00 F. G. Barreda 5.00 
Leo M. Rumely, Jr. . 5.00 John H. Cushmon . . 5,00 Richard J. Gillen . . . Michael J. McGuire . 5.00 John W. Barry .... 10.00 
....
Joseph C. Ryan . . . 10.00 William T. Daly 5.00 Chas. J. Glueckert . . 
James R. McQueen . 10.00 Paul C. Bartholomew . 3.00 
Francis J. Shannon . . 3.00 Laurence E. Danbom . 5.00 James P. Gooley . . . 
Peter H. Makielski . . 10.00 Raymond R. Bauer . . 3.00 
Rev. R. H. Sweeney . 25.00 Orson D. Dausman . . 5.00 Robert M. Grant. . . 
George J. Maury . . 5.00 Jos. E. Beaudway . . . 20.00 
Robert A. Torver . . . 2.00 Jerome M. Davey. . . 45.00 Robt. Jos. Gray . . . Dorrell K. Moore . . . 5.00 Wayne A. Beaverson . 
2.00 

Joseph G. Walsh . . . 10.00 Edw. L Delahanty, Jr. 1.00 Thos. R. Grimes ... . Morris L. Morrison . . 
10.00 Harry'P. Becker ... . 5.00 
Leo Mark Zuchowshy . 1.00 Thos. L Delahanty . . 2.00 Chas. E. Greene, Jr. . William G. Myers. . . 5.00 Francis E Gunter. . 
Joseph A. Bergon . . . 25.00 Anonymous 1.00 Thomas C. Delker. . . 15.00 
Sebastion T. Berner . 20.00 

Elmer Francis Nix . . . 5.00 
John B. Guthrie ... . 

Graduate Wives Assn. 4.00 Robert C. DeLong . . 10.00 
1.00 Paul F. Boehm .... 5.00 
William P. O'Neill . . 
John M. Guthrie, Jr.. 

Anonymous 7189.73 
Arthur M. Diamond . 5.00 
John J. Bognor .... 5.00 

S. A. Rosenstein . . . 20.00 
Edward C. Hager . . 

Peru James F. Boland . . . 5.00 Arthur J. Dietrich . . 5.00 
C. P. Schumacher . . . 15.00 
Robert J. Haley . . . 

5.00 Alfred A. Bergman . . 5.00 James I. Boland . . . 10.00 John M. DiGann . . . 1.00 
J. D. Sharp •. John C. Halleck . . . Vere E. Trinkley ... . 10.00 
Alfred F. Fries . . . 100.00 Joseph M. Boland . . 25.00 Charles W. Dohnalek. 5.00 
10.00 5.00 
25.00 1.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 
10.00 5.00 25.00 20.00 5.00 50.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 15.00 2.00 3.00 
15.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 
ism 
5.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 20.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 2.00 
1.00 
10.00 5.00 5.00 1.00 

Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold face Type —Other Friends. 
JANUARY 1 TO JUNE 30, 1948 
23 

John S. Moulder  . . .  10.00  Harold R. Solomon . .  2.00  Viaeeaaes  
Jos. F. Muellner.  . . .  5.00  E  H. Sommerer, Jr. .  5.00  Paul H. Brokhage . . .  
Leo F. Murphy  ... .  1.00  E  H. Sommerer, Sr. .  5.00  Rene J. Dognoux, Jr..  
Edward J. Murray  . .  10.00  Roy L Sonneborn, Jr..  5.00  Richard J. Doro  . . .  
Paul E Neville  ... .  10.00  A.Jos. Spahn  1.00  Chos. B. Lenohon . . .  
George B. Newitt.  .'.  5.00  Richard J. Steffaniok .  5.00  James D. McQuoid  .  
Leo A. Newman  . . .  5.00  Elmer A. Steffen  .. .  1.00  Lyie E Miller  
Wm. R. Nicholson  . .  1.00  Mort S. Stettouer . . .  10.00  Ralph H. Simon  . . .  
Donald  E. Nuner . . .  5.00  Paul S. Stokely ... .  5.00  E Chester Watson . .  
Joseph M. Nyikos . . .Jos. W. Nyikos ... .Corroll J. O'Connor .  10.00  15.00  5.00  George S. Strotigos .Emery W. Suth ... .Robert M. Sweeney .  5.00  10.00  10.00  John WolkerfOB  F. Marshall . . .  5.00  
J. G. O'Connell, Jr. .  5.00  Fred A. Tonsey ... .  3.00  Warsaw  
George J. Oltsch . . .  10.00  Harold F. Tehon  .. .  1.00  John A. Chrisman  . .  50.00  
E. Jos. O'Neill  ... .  10.00  Thos. R. Thune  ... .  10.00  
M. Francis Policki  . .  2.00  Andrew A. Toth ... .  5.00  WaskiBqion  
Charles C. Palmer  . .  5.00  Robert W. Towner  . .  5.00  Rev. Francis R. Allego  " 2.00  
Nicholas J. Poppas . .  5.00  John C. Treocy . . . .  18.75  John C.Williams . . .  15.00  
John A. Porchem . . .Donald Polriclc ... .  20.00  5.00  Steven J. Tsalikis . . .Corleton K. Turk'. . .  10.00  10.00  Wesf LafayeHe  
Henry B. Payne ... .  2.00  William W . Turner  . .  5.00  Paul D. Jackson ... .  2.00  
J. Elmer Peak  50.00  Joseph D. Usina  . . .  10.00  WMHag  
John N. Perkins ... .  5.00  Chas. E Van Nada  .  2.00  Charles D. Gainer  . .  10.00  
Thomas W . Perry . . .  5.00  R. Dole Von Paris . . .  5.00  Jerome D. Gainer  . .  10.00  
Charles J. Petretic . .Richard J. Philion . . .James G . Phillippff. .John M. Pilorski . . .  5.00  10.00  13.00  5.00  George W. Vesey, Jr. 10.00 John T. Voedisch . . . 10.00 Bernard J. Voll ... . 250.00 Wm . Holland Voll . . 10.00  James J. Glenn . . . . Jerome J . Groebner . Walter J. Keckich . .  25.00 15.00 10.00  
WALTER J. STUHLDREHER Indianapolis City Chairman  David A. Plotkin . . .Anton Pojmon, Jr. . .Armando J. Porto . .  3.00  5.00  50.00  George J. Whack . .Wayne R Wohl... .John F. Waldron . . .  10.00  5.00  5.00  J. A. McCarthy... . Jos. F. McFodden . . Wm. J. Obermiller . .  100.00 5.00 5.00  
Edward H. Holler . . Joseph E. Honnon . . Clellond J. Honner . . Michael F. Hart . . . L Forrest Hozen . . . Jos. W . Hennessy . . . John C. Heyvoert . . Gerald A. Hicley. . . Louis J. HicVey . . . . Thos. L. Hicley, Jr.. . Max W. Hile Leiand E. Hiltbrand .  10.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 15.00 30.00 50.00 25.00 2.03 1.00 25.00  Jos. W. Lauber . . . .Elton P. Lovenberg . .Jasper H. Lowton . .John W. Leadbetter.Thomas J. Leahy . . .Edward W . Leon . . .John J. Lechner. . . .Robert L Lehman . .Bert Liss Jomes Carl List, Jr. .Chos. D. Lundergar .Edmund J. Luther . . .  10.00  5.00  106.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  100.00 50.00  5.00 10.00  5.00  25.00  John J. Porter ... .H. EPoulin, SrJohn G . Poulin ... .Joseph E Poulin . . .Rolland J. Poulin . . .R. Otto Probst ... .A. F. Przybylinski . . .Edw. R. Quinn ... .AnonymousLouis A. Rodelel . . .Walter I. Rauh ... .Tyrrell RoynoGeorge D. Reed . . .  1.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  2.00  18.75  7.00  15.00  5.00  2.00  10.00  Jos. LeRoy Warner . .A. Harold Weber . .William A. Weiler . .Charles E Weiss . . .Forrest R. West .. .James E. White . . . .Richard D. Willemin .Robert F. Wilson . . .John Denton Witt . .Wm . A. Wukovits . . .Daniel J. YoungermanEarl M. ZerbeRichord EZilky . . . .  10.00  52.50  5.00  25.00  1.00  15.00  15.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  15.00  David Tolchinsky . . . Wlaefcesfer Edw. J. Fitzmourice . . IOWA Aftoa William M. Coen . . . >llbia Rev. Horry Ryan . . . illgona  10.00 10.00 10.00 20.00  
Joseph A. Hogon . . 10.00 Edw. J. Hosinski . . . 20.00 Aaron H. Huguenord 100.00 Walter L Joworski . . 3.00 Everett A. Jewell . . . 10.00 Al. W . Johannes . . . 100.00 Charles J. Joiner . . . 2.00 G. Fronds Jones . . . 25.00 Vitus G. Jones . . . . 200.00 Cecil E Jordan . . . . 10.00  Robert Hugh Lyons . .J. James McCroley .Albert McGonn . . .Wm. F. Mclnerney . .John E. Mclntyre . . .Andrew J. McKay . .Robert J. McKee . . .Jos. G. McLoughlin .Joseph C. McMonus .John H. McNomoro .  3.00  20.00  50.00  10.00  100.00  4.00  2.00  25.00  10.00  5.00  Thomas E Reed ... .W. A. RiceElton E Richter ... .Corl L Ringhoff .. .R. S. RistowHerman H. Rodin . .R. E. Roederer ... .Otis S. Romine ... .Irving H. Rosenboum .Raymond L Roy . . .  5.00  10.00  50.00  1.00  5.00  25.00  2.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  H. Anthony Zitt... . 5.00 Abraham O.Zoss. . . 10.00 Ira W . Ciralsky ... . 200.00 Jacob Engel 25.00 Mrs. L Frandowial . 5.00 Romy Hammes ... . 200.00 Ivor Hennings ... . 200.00 L W . McGonn ... . 10.00 Eller R. Newlond . . . 500.00 Earl J. Redden, Jr.. . 25.00  W. Wade Sullivan . . Ames Mark J. Walsh ... . >lBclaboa Wm. H. Holloren . . . ilveea Charles M. Ryan . . . farliagfoB  5.00 5.00 10.00 5.00  
Mack J. Jordan . . . R. C. Koczmorek . . . Daniel F. Kolczyncki . Edgar L Kavonaugh . James E. Keating . . . Raymond G. Keiser. . Frank W. Kelly ... . Robert J. Kelly . . . . Karl G. King, Jr. . . . Theo. A. Klosinski. . . George T. Koch ... . E E. Kochonowski. . . H. F. Koehler, Jr.. . Michael R. Koken . . . Lodislous A. Kolupo . Edmund S. Kowolski . Marvin A. Krueger. . Joseph M. Kujawski. . Victor J. Lagergren .  5.00 Hugh J. McNorney . .15.00 Robert C. Moddod .10.00 Charles ^ . Magner .5.00 Thomas P. Marker . .3.00 Richard J. Martinel .10.00 Jos. C. Mason . . .10.00 Carl A. Motthes . .5.00 Arthur A. May . . .10.00 Edward J. Meehan .20.00 James R. Meehan .25.00 G. F. Menhennett .15.00 Froncis M. Messick .10.00 Robt. J. Meulemon .5.00 F. E. Miholich, Jr.. .5.00 Godfrey V. Miholick .25.00 M. J. Miholick, Jr. .15.00 Fronk Miles . . '. . .5.00 Collix E. Miller . . .5.00 Harold A. Miller . .5.00 Joseph J. Miller. . .  10.00  5.00  10.00  7.50  5.00  10.00  5.00  3.00  15.00  30.00  1.00  10.00  5.00  100.00  25.00  5.00  25.00  25.00  10.00  5.00  Raymond J. Ruelz . .Jos. P. RuppeRobert E.Russell . . .William F. Ryan . . .F. J. Sanfilippo ... .Jos. D. Schmitt ... .Robert J. SchoonoverL P. Schubert ... .Paul J. Schwertley . .R. Floyd SeorerJean L Senecol. . . .N. D. Shambleau . . .John H. Sheehon . . .William J. Sherer. . .Kurt G. Simon ... .John ESkellyWilliam E Slowey . .Knowles B. Smith . . .Andrew Smithberger .Eugene A. Smogor . .Jomes W . Snyder . . .  2.00  3.00  10.00  10.00  2.00  3.00  1.00  25.00  20.00  10.00 ' 1.00  15.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  25.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  Eorl J. Redden, Sr. . . 50.00 Mr., Mrs. A. I. Rice . . 10.00 Schillings, Inc. 150.00 South Bend Lbr. Co. Jos. F. Donahue . . 250.00 Jesse I. Pavey . . . 250.00 Anonymous 100.00 Joseph A. Tonsey . . . 2JbO Spted Fred J. Renn 5.00 Tarre Naafe F. G. Christman, Jr. . 15.00 John C. Hart 5.00 Raymond J. Kearns . 25.00 Louis F. Keifer ... . 200.00 Chos. Wm . Metzger . 5.00 Edward J . O'Dea . . . 10.00 Valparaiso  Edward W. Doiley . . John A. Doiley ... . Frank J. Deloney, Jr. . Richard H. Deloney . Louis F. Louth, Jr. . . Evold M. Rodin ... . Carroll Richard W . Kisgen . . Jos. J. Meyers ... . Cedar Roplds Cornelius J. Kvasnok . John M. Ramey . . . Hubert A. Schimberg August T. Scolaro . . Cfcerotee Donald H. Bocken . . CHafea Edward C. Walsh, Jr. 10.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 20.00 10.00  5.00  
James H. Lohey  . . .  10.00  Edw. V. Minczesici .  .  5.00  Neil C. Snyder, Jr. . .  5.00  Jas. J. Comeford . . .  10.00  Clear  Late  
Joseph J. Loiber . . .  5.00  Samuel E. Molter .  .  2.00  Clement T. Sobecki. .  25.00  Melvin G. Meyers  . .  5.00 John F. Plonalp ... .  5.00  

Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATION 
24 

CencH ffafft Ida Grove Gprdtm Cify 
Paul E. Waclc 5.00 John E. White 10.00 
Alonzo E. Finnup . . . 100.00 Edw. R. McDonnell . . 10.00 
Iowa aty 
HloHvHfe 

Cresfen Chas. F. Fitzgibbons 5.00 Joseph G. O'Bryon . . 25.00 Francis M. Doughton . 10.00 Joseph W. Kirwon . 10.00 Charles P. Schwinn . , 2.50 
HafcMasoa Dovenporf 
John C. Yavorsky . . . 2.00 Don A. Welchons . . 10.00 
Jerome C. Arnold . . 25.00 

Ralph J. Ehr 5.00 Keokok Jefaiere 
A. T. Ersline, Jr. . . . 2.00 John E. Cosgrove . . . 1.00 Wayne A. Shriwise . . 5.00 Joseph J. Serwe, Jr. . 10.00 John J. Schouton . . . 5.00 
Jaaef fea Cify 

D. J. Hickey III .. . . 10.00 John W. Walker . . . 10.00 Jesse R. Wood ... . 50.00 
James R. McCabe . . 2.00 

Laurens Thomas P. McCarthy . 2.00 Kauas CHy 
James R. Hakes . . . 10.00 
John F. McDonnell . . 10.00 

V. W. DeCoursey . . . 50.00 Lawrence A. Mullins . 10.00 Masoa City 
Vincent J. Little . . . 5.00 Roger W. Nolan . . . 10.00 Lester P. Davey . . . . 50.00 
William J. Motson . . 5.00 Richard B.Swift... . 35.00 Robert P. Winter . . . 20.00 
Graham J, Owens . . 15.00 ' G . W . Vander Vennet 10.00 
Daniel F. Scherrer, Jr. 10.00 Henry C. Wurzer . . . 200.00 
Mascaflae 
Leonord J. Aull . . . . 2.00 
Leaveawerffc 
Richard R. Young . . 25.00 

Robert B. Jehring . . 12.00 
Joseph J. Dawes . . . 25.00 Oeolson John W. Roach . . . . 200.00 Robert J. Saggau . 30.00 Robert L. Roach . . . 500.00 Missloa Rolph S. Welch ... . 10.00 Joseph E. Murray . . . 10.00 
Oes Moiaes 

John E. Wessels ... . 50.00 Wm. John Sharp, Jr.. 10.00 Corleton D. Beh . . . 100.00 
M. M. Wessels 100.00 
U.L._­
Joseph E. Casey . . . 10.00 

C. John Forge .... 5.00 New Hamptoa Francis A. Moron . . . 20.00 
John F. Hynes ... . 25.00 Walter J. Kennedy. . 15.00 MARK STOREN 
Norfoa 

Harold P. Klein ... . 10.00 Michigan City (Ind.) City Chairman Newfon Joseph D. Kennedy . . 3.00 
Lenihan L Lolly.... 50.00 Jos. E. Gallagher . . 10.00 
John V. McCarthy . . 5.00 

Paoia GreeaviU* John F. Hutt, Jr.. . . Robert C. Newgard . 1.00 Ottamwa 
James J. Clemens . 10.00 John L Mulligan . . . 1.00 James M. Ingram . . . 
Edward R. Posner . . . 10.00 E. M. Denefe 5.00 
William N. Cole . . 25.00 John M. Keaney, Jr. . Jomes C. Shaw ... . 15.00 HomdonoB 
Martin J. Kirwan, Jr.. 
ferry 
PanoBS

John W. Sievert . . . 5.00 John J. Delker .... 20.00 
Edw. E Matthews . . . 

Daniel E. Hannan, Jr. 5.00 
John T. Stork 5.00 Joseph E. Cole . . . 10.00 
James L Meagher . . 

HepUasviile ­
Joseph E. Wholen . . 25.00 focoboafas 
Saliaa Otto J. Mileti, Jr. . . 
Wm. R. Wicks ... . 2.00 
E H. Birmingham . . 20.00 Howard J. Shimon . . 5.00 
Charles T. Moran . . . Dabaqae John E. Corlin . . . 25.00 Keafaa Hllft Charles G. Morrow . . 
John Dovid Cohill . 5.00 

PosfvH/e 
25.00 Robt. H. Bischoff . . . 5.00 Raymond Nober . . . 
Wm. M. Clemens, Jr. 10.00 George W. Cole . . 
Francis P. Kneelond . 1.00 Louis F. Foutsch . . . 25.00 Norbert F. Skelley . 100.00 
Charles E. Nevils . . . 

Lackey 
5.00 Sergeoat Blaff R. Edw. Nolan .... Topeta George E. Evans, Jr.. 25.00 
Wallace L Fromhart. 

William G. Palmer . . Bernard G . Beier . . 1.00 Louis C. Majerus . . . 10.00 Leiiagfea 
Thomas P. Goynor . . 5.00 Raymond B. Duggan . 15.00 
C. J. Pfeiffer Sioux Cify Walter A. Stevens . 10.00 
Raymond L Pfeiffer .

Thomas H. Nelson . . 5.00 Francis E. Crowley . . 5.00 
Currier J . Holman . . 5.00 Wtekifa Morns J. Pope ... . 
Louis A. Rhomberg . . 5.00 Francis J. Quinn . . . 25.00 
Arthur L. Kelly ... . 10.00 
5.00 Wm. A. Reisert, Jr.. . 
Thomas B. Schmid . . 15.00 Daniel P..Barlow . . R. Parker Sullivan . . . 20.00 
Robert A. Manning . . 5.00 
Jean F. Schneider . . 5.00 Theodor P. Jochems 15.00 A. H. Mosier 50.00 G. B. Schroering . . . John L Mulhall ... . 5.00 
Henry J. Trenkle . . . 25.00 Ralph E. Johnson . . 5.00 G. A. Schwartzel . . . Michael P. Noonan . . 5.00 liveraMre Eugene J. Steuerle . . 
Charles E. Maher. . 5.00 
OHaeeoibe 

Edw. F. Simonich . . . 5.00 
James G. Meyer . . . 10.00 5.00 
John W. Brown .... B. C. Noonan 5.00 Paul J. Tafel, Jr. . . . UaisvIIle 
Eagle Grove IVaferlae KENTUCKY Jacques M. Veeneman Henry B. Asman . . . 100.00 
•ardsfewa James G. Warren, Jr. 
10.00 William E. Denigon . 5.00 
Maurice E. Noonan . . Laurence J. Aubrey . 10.00 
Joseph L Wathen . . 
Oliver R. McCloron . 10.00 

Robert L. McGonnon 5.00 
John W . Bannon . . . 15.00 
Eatatefsborg Erwin J. Weiler, Jr.. . 
f owliag Greea 

 B. Barrett . . 
Edward D. Kelly . . . 25.00 Waukoa George 5.00 Albert C. Gorman . . Julian V. Durbin . . . 5.00 Frank B. Bloemer, Jr. . 25.00 
Arthur E. Sheridan . . 100.00 Mr., Mrs. J. M. 
EsfbervH/e 

Bernard F. Bowling . . 10.00 Earl D. Bagan .... 5.00 Wayerty 
Baeebel 

Frank H. Breslin ... . 50.00 
George F. Dwyer . . . 10.00 Williom P. Kelly . . . 
Humphrey L. Leslie . 50.00 
Joseph L Buckler . . . 5.00 
Foada Edward J. LeBlanc . . 
Carroiifoa 

William B. Mooney . . 10.00 
James C. Carrico . . 5.00 
Edward L. Carey . . . 15.00 Robt. N. Schuhmonn .
Mr., Mrs. Stanley 

Norvin L Casper . . . 25.00 
West PoM J.LW;lUnbrinlt,Jr.. . 
Fort 4Kiasoa Grobmyer 100.00 
James E. Costello . . 25.00 
Vern Henry Brinck . . 3.00 
Marfia 

Arthur F. Huber . . . 10.00 Joseph F. Cullen . . . 10.00 Wiafbrop John P. Dant, Jr.. . . 15.00 Robert L Dermont . . 
Ceafrol Cify 

Fort Dodge Tobe M. Gish 10.00 Donald J. Crowley . . 15.00 Jesse L Doll 100.00 
Moysvilfe 
Edw. Jos. Flattery . . 2.00 
Coviagfoa 

Edward J. Dowd . . . 5.00 Thos. Healy 25.00 
John F. O'Donnell . . 

John B. Brinker ... . 5.00 John E. Fallot 10.00 Robt. D. Mulhollond . 25.00 
KANSAS Julian A. Mahany . . 3.00 William R. Gates . . . 5.00 Newpoff Thomas S. Welch . . . 12.00 
Wm. B. Middendorf . 25.00 Francis M. Gray . . . 2.00 C. J. J. Heringer, Jr.. 
iladafe Forf Madlsea John J. Guthrie ... . 25.00 
Gerald L. Kerschen . . 2.00 Daaviile WcbelMvnf* Richard J. Kern .. . . 18.50 
J . Kenneth Hammond 10.00 
Philip J. Clarke 25.00 James L Vollely . . . Robert R. Phelan . . . 100.00 
AieUtoB Virgil James Heck . . 2.00 Chas. S. McKeIvy, Jr. 2.50 Easf Berasf cdf John Lukes Hoeck . . 1.00 Oweasfcara 
Donald A. Poepsel . . 2.00 

John Malcolm Hiller . 1.00 Roger J. Huter ... . 25.00 Thomas Monarch, Jr.. 
H. J. Schroder, Jr. . . 5.00 Francis D. McKeIvy . . 2.50 
5.00 15.00 15.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 5.00. 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 
5.00 5.00 100.00 50.00 5.00 10.00 1.00 
20.00­5.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 15.00 
10.00 
100.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 
20.00 
20.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 

Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. 
JANUARY I TO JUNE 30, 1948 
25 

Oorctesfer Frovfaeefewa 
Geo. C. Howard, Jr.. 25.00 Francis X. Suindon . . 5.00 Edword J. Dahill . . . 5.00 Wm. M. Healy, Jr . . 10.00 
Qoiacy 
Ckevy Cfcate 

Easf Walpele 
Thomas P. Heoly . . . 10.00 Chas. M. Gallagher . 10.00 
Geo. Albert Sullivan . 5.00 
Frederick A. Parker . . 5.00 Foil River Nello A. Salvoti.... 10.00 
William B.Jones , . . 10.00 
Coaberfaad 

Frank B. Welsh ... . 5.00 Saag-js Edw. J. Mattingly, . . 10.00 Fraaiiagkaai Arthur G. Statute . . 1.00 Garrett fark Walter F. Noonan . . 5 00 Somervilie Jos. p. O'Loughlin . . 10.00 William T. White . . . 5.00 
Poul R. Mortin ... . 25.00 

Gordaer Greeabelf Jos. Thos. Kivlin . . . 2.00 SeaMbrldge Jos. L Fitzmourice . . 5.00 Rev. Martin S. Honyz . 75.00 
Haverklll 
Hagenfowa Henry G. Armitoge . 10.00 Spriagfield Thos. W. Pongbom . 5000.00 George J. Moriarty . 20.00 Charles A. Beaulieu . 1.00 George H. Glynn . . 15.00 
Haaover Nlagkam 
50.00 
Wm. J. Granfield . . . 
Robert J. Byrne ... . 5.00 

John Robert Crowley. 5.00 
Michael L Houlahan . 3.50 
HyattsvUle 

Holyoke William A. Hurley . . 12.50 Philip J. Moloney . . . 5.00 
Daniel J. O'Connell . 15.00 Jocob Richmond . . . 25.00 Middle River James M. Regan . . . 2.00 Swompscoff Bernard F. Peterson . 15.00 Ulric J. Ruell 25.00 William J. Thompson . 5.00 John F. Sullivan, Jr. . 10.00 
Gordon R. Wilcox . . 10.00 
Poolesvflle 

Robert J. Finnegon . . 10.00 Hyaaais Tonafon 
A. D. Maddolena, Jr. 10.00 
5.00 Vincent D. O'Neil. . . 5.00 
RickvHIe Chorles F. Colton . . 
John Arthur McGrath 1.00 
Uxbridge 

JAMES E. MCCARTHY Silver Sprtogs John F. Baker 5.00 
Jaaiaiea Fioia 
Notre Dome Chairman Jomes O. Cole, Jr.. . 15.00 Thomas J, Brennan 25.00 
Richard Seon Herlihy 1.00 Wm. J. Stewart, Jr.. . 5.00 
Edw. J. O'Brien, Jr.. . 10.00 
Wobaa 
fadaeah Newport News 

Lawreaee 
Takona fork Robert N. Sullivan . . 100.00 
John F. Broy 25.00 Wolter L Hutchins . . 2.00 Harry E. Buckley . . . 15.00 John C. Bresnohan . . 5 Wm. H. Sullivan . . . 100.00 
Dennis J. Nunon .. . 1.00 Piaqaemiae John F. Honifln ... . 10.00 Albert A. Mulreony. . lOO 
Francis R. Paxton .. . 1.00 Wellesley
V.J. Kurzweg, Jr.. . . 10.00 JohnJ.Cohill 10. frospecf 
John S. Vaughon . . . 5.00 
Tallulai 

UttletoK Robert N. Wathen . . 25.00 West Newbury 
MASSACHUSETTS 

James M. Gilfoil . . . 5.00 
Jos. p. Sullivan, Jr. . 25 
Abiagtoa 
Daniel Cooney Leory. 5.00 
St. UaHhews 

Joseph M. Corcoran . 10.00 Lowell OscorJ. Von Allmen . 3.00 MAINE 
West Newton

ArllmgtoB John D. Murphy . . 
Branswiek Arthur T. McMonmon 25.00 
George E Tobin . . . 5.00 

Lyaa 
Louis R. Tondreou . . 5.00 
LOUISIANA iladover Edward D. Callohon . 5.00 West Roxbory Lew/sfOB 
Alexandria Oonold J. O'Connor . 10.00 Francis J. Dancewicz . 5.00 Jos. Edword Gorman .-2.00 Poul Scully, Jr. .. . . 5.00 
Edword J. Gloser . . 5.00 Lawrence J. Tierney . 10.00 
Atkol kfaldea Porfland Baton Rouge Raymond A. Dubriske 15.00 Daniel J. Quinlan . . . 20.00 IViacAesfer 
Thomas Jos. Earls . . 5.00 
Roy F. Congelosi . . . 2.00 Poschol A. Tofuri . . . 10.00 
AHleboro 

ktedferd 
Gorlond F. Dowling . 10.00 ITork Harbor 
Roymond U. Kelllher . 5.00 

Jos. F. Clanciolo . . .00 WiotkropFranklin Lawrence P. Keenon . 1.00 
Robert J. Nolon . . . 100.00 

John J. Honley'. . . .00 Worren A. Davis . . . 5 00 Donald W. Ohimeyer 3.00 
Boston Michael B. Manzo . .00 
Worcftesfer 

MARYLAND 
Lake Charles John W. Noonon . . .00 Francis A. Consolati . 5.00 
John N. Duffey ... . 18.75 

Michoel C. Chovanne 10.00 BalHmore John R. Herbert . . . 10.00 MiHord Paul W. Cummings . . 25.00 
Bernard J. Cronin . . 5.00 
New Orieans John P. Hickey ... . 5.00 James A. Higgiston .50 Joseph J. Dockman . . 10.00 
John V. Moron ... . 20.00 

New Orleans . . . 15.00 John E Flonogan . . . 5.00 Ralph M. Turner . . . 10.00 MICHIGAN Philip W. Glasser. . . 5.00 New Bedford 
Notre Dame Club of Cyril F. Kellett . . . .00 
H. Edward Wrope . . 25.00 William W. Hortmon 15.00 Rev. A. M. Gomes . . 5.00 ildriaa Bolan E. Burke . . . 25.00 
Miss Ruth O'Neil . . . 5.00 William L. Herzog . . 30.00 Robert R. Cooney . . 15.00 
Williom E. Cossidy . 5.00 
NewfoB 
Roland A. Chloro . 10.00 frigtfoa 
Eugene C. Hilkert . . 25.00 
Francis P. Cosgrove 5.00 John P. Connelly . . . 5.00 John F. Nolan ... . .00 Albion 
Wm. L. Jocobs, Jr.. . 5.00 Chos. E. de la Vergne 10.00 Albert I. Thomas . . . .00 0. R. McAuliffe ... . 5.00 
Broektea 

Wm. C. Loughron . . 10.00 
Jules K. de lo Vergne 1025.00 E. Fred Wolter ... . 15.00 
Felix J. Melody ... . 5.00 Albert J. Birmingham 25.00 NerftaaipfoB 
William B. Dreux . . . 50.00 
James H. Murray, Jr. 5.00 Richard J. Collon . . 5.00 Donald D. Sullivan . . 10. 1.00 AlmaJames E. Favret. . . . 150.00 
Horry F. O'Brien . . . 5.00 Norft iladover 
frookliae Joseph F. Dovey . . 15.00 Lewis J. O'Sheo ... . 30.00 
Leo T. Hoppel . . . . 10.00 
Corl J. Monocelli. . . 5.00 Jos. R. Dooiey ... . 100 .00 J. Howard Haley . . 37.50 John G. Prendergast . 15.00 
John W. Hopkins . . . 1.50 
Clifford John ..Wood . 5.00 

William H. Johnston . 25.00 
Hortk EasfoB Alpena
RoyO. Scholz 10.00 

Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr.. 200.00 Cambridge 
Jas. Henry Johnson . . I ,00 F. J. O'Donnell . . . 25.00 Harold D. Sporl . . . 200.00 F. John Culhane . . . 5.00 
Bryce Smith 10.00 
L L Loughlin 3,00 Albert L Vitter, Jr.. . 10.00 Roy E. Murray, Jr. . . 25.00 ilaa >lrber Horry E. Storcfc, Jr.. . 10.00 
Daniel G. Sullivan . . 5.00 
Pttfsffeld 
Mrs. Katherine John N. Clancy ... . 15.00 
Frederick A. Trenkle . 25.00 CUeopee 
Bernard F. Brehl, Jr. . 5,00 Harold A. Williams. . 10.00 
B. Dreux 400.00 James A. Johnson . . 2.00 
Lionel J. Favret. . . . 75.00 Raymond P. Snyder. . 10.00 Joseph P. Limont .. . 10. .00 Geo. A. Kennord . . . 5.00 Adolphe Fronsen . . 10.00 Bel Air Ckicopee Falls Mark F. Limont ... . I .00 Richard J. Leite ... . 10.00 Albert J. Fronsen . . . 5.00 Adolph J. Pons, Jr.. . 25.00 Daniel M. Kennedy . . 5.00 John J. Miller, Jr.. . . 10, .00 Richord C. O'Connor 5.00 Rene Fronsen 20.00 Joseph P. Pons-. . . . 25.00 Robert D. Kennedy . . 5.00 James J. O'Brien .. . 5.00 John J. Prince 20.00 
Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATION 
• 26 

•oHI t  Crttk  Edword F. Droves . .-.  25.00  Thomas E. Sheehan . .  25.00  
Bernard J. Juzwiolc . .Francis L Murray . . .  3.00 25.00  Horry W . Droves . . .Francis S. Driscoll. . .  25.00 10.00  Jos.Jos.  J. Sherry, Jr.. . . R. Simonin ... .  10.00 5.00  •A-iT^?^^  
William J. Purtel  .. .  1.00  Clarence A. Durbin . .  10.00  John M. Stockpoole  .  10.00  
H. E. Steinbacher . . .  25.00  John George Else . . .  10.00  T. W. Thompson, Jr. .  15.00  
Bay Cify  Theodore F. Feldmon .  15.00  John C. Ullmon ... .  10.00  
Gerald E. Carroll. . .  10.00  Donald W. Fisher  . .  5.00  Edw. W. Wilberding  .  5.00  
Jos. C. Soddeyne . .Robt. W. Herrington .William R. House . . .  10.00 10.00 5.00  Robert G. Fisher . . .Wm. G. Fitzpotrick . .Bernard D. Fletcher .  10.00 10.00 5.00  Andrew F. Wilson . . .Charles J. Wolf... .John H. Zimmers . . .  5.00 5.00 25.00  
James L Kavonogh .Timothy E. Kelly .. .Hubert J. Kirchman .  5.00 1.00 10.00  James S. Foren, Jr.. .Ernest J. Gorgoro . .Matthew P. Garrigon  10.00 200.00 10.00  Robert W. Zink ... .George Branen ... .C. H.Carroll  5.00 5.00 100.00  
F. L. Koppelberger . .C. F. Niedzielski . . .  25.00 5.00  Waller J. Gerend . .Robert A. Gludowatz  5.00 2.0O  Hugh DeanRobt B. Gotfredson  525.00 . 100.00  
George  K. Word  . . .  30.00  John J. Gormon, Jr. .Geo. T. Hanlon, Jr. .  5.00 50.00  David R. Kirby ... .Frank J. Ortmon . . .  15.00 100.00  
Benfon Harbor George J . Lynch . . .  10.00  John Poul Harm . . .Urban Hubert ... .  2.00 10.00  Henry C. Ruen ... .W. J. Tobin  100.00 10.00  
Benjamin J. MamminoJos. Q. Reninger . . .Cyril C. Theisen . . . .Gerard C. Theisen . .  5.00 3.00 10.00 50.00  Thos. L Hutchison, Jr.C. Edw. Jocques, Jr. .Louis E. Jonssen . . .John G. Jeokle ... .  10.00 20.00 6.00 15.00  Dowagfae Joseph B. Shopero . .Robert R. Woterson .  10.00 10.00  
Mr., Mrs. V. C. Anltli  .  5.00  John  F. Kane  5.00  East Grand  Kapicfs  
Birmiagham  Karl F. Karey  5.00  Thomos A. Hayes . . .  5.00  
Harrison E. Hanson . .Thos. G. Kavanaugh .Fred SogeHorry B. Stillmon . , .Baekaaan  10.00 10.00 J 0.00 25.00  Raymond J. Kelly, Sr.Robt. W. Kennedy . .John K. Kilbone ... .Howard A. Klein . . .Malcolm F. Knous . .Robert J. Koch ... .  20.00 20.00 5.00 5.00 300.00 5.00  Eseaaaba John K. Borlell ... .Donald F. LeMire . .Robert E. LeMire . . .John A. Lemmer . . .  2.00 15.00 15.00 25.00  ROBERT L ROACH Muscatine (la.) City Chairman  
John J. Besinger . . .W. R. Desenberg . . .Jerome J. Kaczmorek  5.00 10.00 5.00  Aloysius J. Koss... .Joseph C. Kremer . .James J. Kress ... .  15.00 15.00 • 5.00  Robert F. SchmitMrs. Catherine Bcnifas  . . . 10.00 5000.00  Horry L Merdzinski .Alfred C. Nochlegall  25.00 100.00  Haafiagfoa MToo^is Clarence B. Haven . . 5.00  
Alfred B. White . . . .Cassopolfs Frederick Herscher . .CoBfervIlie Williom E. Carrico . .Wm. E. Corrico, Sr. .Clawsoa  10.00 25.00 15.00 15.00  Hugh J. Laughna . . .Jay L LeePaul B. LillisCorl Anthony Look . .Thos. Wm. Look ... .Robert F. Luti . . . .Robt. A. Macdonell .LP . Molone  10.00 10.00 15.00 5.00 2.00 1.00 5.00 15.00  FarmimgioK Herbert W. Hart . . . feradaU Walter Wm. Fisher. . Donot J. Pepin . . . . F. J. Sierowski  50.00 5.00 25.00 5.00  John Wm . Pulto . . . 5.00 Thomas G. Roach . . . 20.00 Francis A. Veit, Jr. . . 100.00 John W. Withey . . . 10.00 Robt. C. Woodhouse. 5.00 Gross* Pelata James P. Donaher . . 10.00 Francis G. Ebner . . . 5.00  Clarence J . Kaiser . .Raymond J . LaPoinieD. J. Sullivan. Jr.. . .Iroa MoaaM a N.C.Bartholomew..Robert D. LeMense . .Iroa Mvor  18.75 15.00 10.00 10.00 5.00  
John F. Creevey  . .  1.00  Chos. M. A. Martin  .  25.00  Kenneth E. Gempel. .  5.00  Jas.  N. Motschall. . .  10.00  Gerald R. Mahon  . .  5.00  
Oearborn John W. Courtney .  .  15.00  Marvin M. Martin . .Jos. J. McCormick . .Patrick S. McDougoll.  25.00 10.00 10.00  Thos. F. Halligan . . . 10.00 Paul C. Hughes . . . . 10.00 John F. Laux ... . . 20.00  Jacques Rousseau . . Chester P. Sadowski . Joseph A. Schrage . .  20.00 25.00 10.00  froawood Raymond H. Ebli . . Victor F. Lemmer . .  5.00 10.00  
Edward J. Dore, Jr.. John F. O'Haro . . . Milton J. Wagner . Jerome W. Wayne .  . 10.00 5.00 50.00 5.00  John J. McHale . . .Walter P. McKenna .Wm. S. McKenna . . .James E. McShone . .  10.00 5.00 25.00 3.00  D. F. MocDonald . . . 25.00 Thoddeus Monyak . . 10.00 William F. Minordo . 10.00 Arthur T. Parodis . . . 5.00  John A. Slatlery . . . Theodore W. Trefzer . Neil J. Whalen ... . Eugene S. Witchger .  30.00 10.00 10.00 30.00  Eugene R. Zinn . . . Isfepoaifag Francis L Nardi . . ,  10.00 5.00  
Detroit  Herbert S. Melton  . .  5.00  James M. Pearson  . . 205.00  Gross* Polaf*  fori IS  Joeksoa  
Vfi Robert J. Baty . . . AdolbertC. Baur, Jr. Russell J. Beaupre . George E. Bolger . . Daniel F. Bradley . . John W. Brennan . . Ernest G. Brock . . . Robert R. Burke . . . Lawrence A. Burns . James J. Byrne . . . Joseph H. Carey . . William E. Carroll . E. Louis Chaussee . . Maurice A. Clausen .  100.00 20.00 30.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 25.00 25.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 20.00 10.00 25.00 25.00 20.00  John R. Milliman . . . 10.00 Charles O. Molz . . . 25.00 Notre Dome Club of Detroit 1000.00 Geo. B. Morris, Jr. . . 10.00 John H. Morris ... . 10.00 Robt. Wm. Murray . . 2.00 Lou M. Nagelsen . . . 25.00 Potrick N. Nolan . . . 15.00 Louis W. Mormon . . . 15.00 James F. O'Brien . . . 15.00 James J. O'Donnell . 10.00 Bernard A. O'Hora . 5.00 John P. O'Neill 1.00 Ronold S. O'Neill. . . 1.00 Wm. E. O'Reilly, Jr. . 5.00  Daniel H. Sheeron . . 200.00 Emery A. Sherwood . . 5.00 S. I. Foley . 100.00 John B. Johnson .. . 5.00 John B. Ryan .... . 10.00 Groad Ledga Timothy M. Green . . 5.00 Grodd Rapids Notre Dame Club of Grond Rapids . . 150.00 Richard F. Bechtold . 5.00 Joseph F. Boylond . . 10.00 J. Thomas Campbell . 5.00 James A. Carmody . . 5.00 M. E. Cartier, Jr, . . . 3.00  Cyril G. Desmet . . . 3.00 William J. Reaume . . 5.00 Gross* Polof* Park Charles M. Ebnsr. . . 1.00 Daniel J. Stock, Jr.. . 50.00 Marcellus C. Verbiest 250.00 Gross* Potafo Woods Edward J. Weeks . . . 15.00 Harf Stewart J . Roche . . . 5.00 Hosflags Roman C. Feldpausch 25.00 Hlgfcload fork Donald R. Caird . . . 10.00  J. Justin Tompkins . . 6.00 Carlton B. Maino . . , 25.00 L J. Wisdo , 10.00 Joaosvfll* Willord E Crotty . . . 25.00 XoloaMioo Very Rev. John R. Hackett 250.00 Francis G. Kersjes . . 20.00 James J. Mahoney . . 10.00 A. J. Mulholland, Jr. . 25.00 John J. Prihoda, Jr. . 10.00 Edward J. Sage . . . . 15.00 Robert J. Shields . . . 10.00 John D. Simon . . . . 10.00  
Clyde P. Craine . . Arthur D. Cronin, Jr. . Wolter J. Cronin . . . Edward V. Crowe . . . John M. Curron, Jr. Desmond P. Currier . . Donald F. Currier. . . Gerald A. Currier . . Albert F. Davis . . . . Wm. Joseph Dinnen .  25.00 100.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 20.00 5.00 25.00 10.00  Philip J. Phillip ... .Horry H. Phillips . . .Mitchell J. Pieronek. .Edmund A. Polhous . .Paul B. 0"alyFrancis E. Ouish . • •Fondy F. Rashid . . .Dovid T. Roney ... .Gerard F. Sorb ... .Thos. P. Schreiber. . .  10.00 10.00 10.00 25.00 5.00 25.00 15.00 25.00 5.00 10.00  Edward R. Dunn . . . John I. Flonagon . . ­Frederick C. Gast . . Richard Leo Joosten . Joseph F. Kelly ... . Arnold R. Levandoski. Don J. Levandoski . . Robert B. Linsey . . . George E. Ludwig . . R. D. McCormick . . .  10.00 5.00 25.00 2.00 5.00 10.00 15.00 5.00 25.00 10.00  William F. Dooley . . 10.00 Gerald Jos. Holland . 10.00 James W. Murphy . . 20.00 Harry E. Datchtyvtr. 1000.00 Holfoad John F. Donnelly . . 10.00 Hadsoa Joseph F. Dillon . . . 2.00 Lawrence A. Dillon . 10.00  Loaslag Raymond J. Bonini . . Louis J . Caruso . . . . Robt. A. Derengoski . Robert W. Hughes . . Harry F. Kelly C. E. McFarlane . . . Leo P. McFarlane . . Ernest C. Timpani. . . Wm . F. Wittenburg .  5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 50.00 2.00 5.00 10.00  
JANUAR Y  I  TO  JUN E  30, 1948  Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Foe* Typ*—Other  Friends.  
27  

Port Hmnu MINNESOTA Wm. H. Russell, Jr.. . 1.00 
Joseph L. Bauer. . . . Francis H. Comins . .  1.00 7.00  loyporf  Robert J. Schulze . . .Richard S. Seidel . . .  15.00  2.00  
Harry S. Erd, Jr. . . .  5.00  Jas. David  Rowland  .  1.00  Richard J. Shamla  . .  15.00  
Chos. T. Hastings . . .  5.00 2.00  Clarence ••aidji  R. Smith . .  20.00  Robt. B. Voglewede .Thos. R. Volberding . .  25.00  5.00  
Joseph K. Mcintosh . Clifford O'Sullivan . .  10.00 25.00  Bralmeri  Jas. P. WilcoxJohn D. Yelland ... .  10.00  25.00  
Thomas J. Peloso . . .  5.00  Jos. R. Dunn  75.00  Moafgoiaery  
F. Granger Weil  . . .  10.00  CfeaMeld  James F. Sernett  . . .  5.00  
William L Wilson . . . RoveHo  10.00  Ralph E Thorson .. .Ckiskolai   1.00  New Pragoe Robt. A. McAuliffe. .  10.00  
River Reage  35.00  John L Cowley ... .John I. Freedy ... .  5.00  15.00  Pipesfone William J. Crook . . .  10.00  
Joseph V. Page  ... .  5.00  Collegeville  Roefcesfer  
Royal Oak Jerome C. DeClercq .  10.00  D. Chester Grant. . .Crosby   25.00  Robt. A. Nochtwey . .OttoC.Stegmoier,Jr.  10.00  10.00  
Norman J. FredericksJos. W. Sullivan . . .  25.00  25.00  Harry M. Koop ... .  5.00  Philip Hoy  Utz  . . . .  1.00  
Detroit  Lakes  St.  Charles  
Saginaw Albert Boumgorten . .  2.00  Francis C, Schroeder ..  10.00  Robert N. Feltes  . . .  2.00  
Carl W. Doozon  . . .  10.00  Dnlaffe  St.  Cloud  
Joseph F. Hart  ... .  10.00  Wm. E. Cotter, Jr. . .  15.00  Daniel M. Eich  ... .  10.00  
William C. Hurley  . .  10.00  Philip G. Hoene  . . .  10.00  St.  Lonis Park  
Harold V. Lappin . . .Robt. J. McCorty . .  5.00  10.00  William J. Hoene. . .Mark E. Nolan ... .  1.00  10.00  John  R. Petrlch ... .  5.00  
NORBERT  F. SKELLEY  Harry  B. McGee  . . .  5.00  Fairbaalt  St.  Paul  
Solina (Kas.) City Chairman  Joseph A. Sabourin . .  20.00  F. A. Grunenfelder  .  10.00  Lawrence J. Barrett  .  10.00  
John  D. Shea  25.00  Richard G. Cahill  . .  10.00  
Lapeer George L Holpin . . Leiand Jerome F. Cordes . . . Williom F. Wall... . LeKoy L Edwin Lindell ... .  5 00 20.00 5.00 1.00  Richard L. Mason Blair McGowon . . J. Frank Oehlhoffen Jomes M. Price . . Joseph T. Riley . . Joseph F. Sonford Mr., Mrs. Charles F. Bebeau, Sr. . .  10.00 20.00 25.00 2.00 50.00 15.00 15.00  Lawrence L. Strable .Michael V. Teders . .Maurice Q. Tessin . .Thos. F. VonAorle . .Robert W. Witchger .St. Clair Stores Peter J. Platte ... .  10.00  5.00  2.00  10.00  35.00  10.00  Fairaionf E. M. Christianson . Edward J. Powers . . Nibbiag Chas. L. Becchetti . Hopkias Leon J. Moes 1.00 5.00 10.00  20.00  Paul H. Costner . . .John A. Culligon . . .John M. Culligon . . .William M. Dugon . .Edward J. Fahey . . .Edward C. Krick . . .James P. McCourt . .Geo. T. McDermott .  12.00  10.00  100.00  5.00  5.00  25.00  10.00  100.00  
Lowell George A. Arenhort . Ludingfon Warren A. Cortier . . Marqueffe  10.00 5.00  H. W. Vandeven 5.00 Muskegon Heights Ralph V. August . . . 10.00 Newago James E. Rich 10.00  Sfepfteasea Robert F. Voelker. . .St. Josepfc Leo K. CookRobert V. Knox ... .M. Chester McGrath .  10.00  15.00  10.00  5.00  faferaafioaal Falls Irwin P. Crotty ... . 10.00 LoSaear Francis J. Winter . . . 5.00 Maakafe  Paul I. McDermott . .James E. Newman . .Robert M. Rogers . .John Brady Sullivan .R. A. Thibodeau . . .Jos. A. Rogers Co. . .  50.00  10.00  15.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  
Ray L  Beauchamp . .  5.00  New  Baltimore  Donald J. McGrath  .  3.00  John  H. Groif  ... .  5.00  Sfillwater  
Gerald E. Poveglio . . John J. Welsh ... .  10.00 2.00  Aloysius G. Weimer . New Haven  10.00  John F. Miles, Jr. . . .Maurice A. Weber. .  5.00  25.00  John LThroMarsfcali   100.00  John C. Burke . . . Joseph M. Simonet .  5.00 1.00  
Menominee P. Paul Kreuz Michael D. O'Hara . John M. Schroeder . . Monroe John H. Conlin ... . Edw. F. Cousineou, Jr. Thomas E. Griffin . . . Robert H. Maurer . . Lawrence E. Merman . Francis T. Ready . . . Mt. Clemens  25.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 20.00 37.50 5.00 5.00 5.00  Edw. G. Siegfried . . .Niles Sheridan Cook . . . Casper R. Grathwohl James J. Green Victor Gutschenritter Peter G, Krojci . . . Paul T. Leonard . . . Robert W. Richards Robert E. Sullivan . Bruce E. Anderson . Ben Flaherty ... .   50.00 5.00 00.00 5.00 10.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 12.50 12.50  Mr., Mrs. J. W. HallbergSaline Vincent A. Jacobs . .Sanlf St. Marie Joseph J. GillSawyer E. J. DoleialSfargis Eli J. Shoheen  10.00  1.00  10.00  20.00  50.00  John L Bulowski . . .Richard E O'Connell.Miaaeapolis Robert H. Bach ... .Emmett I. Barron . . .Louis P. Chute ... .Arnold L Cleveland .G. Howard Dolmoge .John J. DoyleKenneth J. Fighleigh .James H. Finn ... .R. A. Honousek ... .  15.00  25.00  5.00 "  15.00  10.00  2.50  7.50  1.00  10.00  25.00  4.00  Traey John J. O'Brien . . Two Harbors M. Albert Henry . . .Waseca 'Daniel M. Coughlin .Willaiar Louis E. Schmitz . . .Wiaoaa John A. Groms ... . 15.00  5.00  50.00  10.00 10.00  •  I  
H. P. Charbeneou . . James C. Doner . . . Rev. J. A. McNamoro David V. Wolloce . . Mf. U orris J: R. Knickerboclcer . .  1.00 10.00 25.00 10.00 25.00  Norfk Moskegon Geo. W. Cannon, Jr.. 100.00 Chester E. Smith . . . 10.00 Owosse Joseph H. Mulhall . . 50.00  Trenfea James R. Foley ... .John F. McDermott .Wesfpkolia Bruno C. Cook ... .  25.00  5.00  10.00  Wm . M. Guimont . .John R. Hovlen ... .Michael J. Keegon . .R. G. KingeryArnold J. Klein ... .W. F. Kreighboum . .  25.00  10.00  5.00  2.00  10.00  10.00  MISSISSIPPI •itoxi Charles W. Martin . . 10.00 Greeaville  
Munsing Matthew David Pinter Muskegon  2.00  John Pleasant RMge  M. Hallberg . .PoBflac   10.00  Wyaarfette Shelley J. Bannon . . .L William Fury ... .Kenneth L Montie . .  15.00  10.00  5.00  Thomas J. Lee, Jr. . .Chas. L Madden, Jr..Chos. H. McCarthy .William E Meier . . .  15.00  10.00  25.00  5.00  Frank V. Ciolino, Jr. .Jaeksoa William H. Miller . .  5.00  25.00  
Francis J. Donovan , .John D. Fitzpotrick . .John F. Frederick . , .  100.00  15.00  50.00  William J. Bergon . .Robert J. Dunloy . . .Thomas E. Hoover . .  5.00  15.00  10.00  George M. Wolf . . .rpsilaafi   25.00  Vincent E. Morrison .Gerald E McKoy . . .Steven E Puffer. . . .  1.00  3.00  10.00  Lcziagfoa Marion W. Wilcox . .  2.00  
Robert W. Hale  . . .  20.00  Roy C.  Pauli  10.00  Louis O. Staelens . . .  5.00  Louis J. Regan  ... .  25.00  Vieksbarg  
Thoddeus S. Kmiecik  .  25.00  Rolond J. Smith  . . .  15.00  Joseph D. Sullivan  . .  5.00  Romaine R. Reichert.  25.00  Robert F. Evans, Jr. .  5.00  

Light Foce Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATION 
28 

raieo Cify Gerhard J. Schroer. . 5.00 Senotro W. DiLeo , . 10.00 Somuel J. Nicholas. . 50.00 Gerard J. Smith . . . 25.00 Leo S. Donati, Jr.. . . 10.00 Joseph R. Stewart . . 25.00 Robert C. Dunn . . . 10.00 Thomas J. Tobin . . . 5.00 Chorles E. Eimer . . . 25.00 MISSOURI Francis W . Toyne . . . 5.00 James H. Evans. . . . 10.00 w III * Spriags Robert M. Tyler. . . . 15.00 Frank Finnegan . . . . 10.00 
M.J. Van Dyke. . . . 10.00 Walter A. George . . 50.00 
Robert W. Lysoght. . 5.00 
Charles C. Whitaker . 250.00 James Edward Ghio . 15.00 
Fred G. Wirthman . . 10.00 J. Murray Glasgow . . 10.00 
Thomas C. Gilmore . . 10.00 
•reafweod 
Joseph T. Golobowski 20.00 
Kirkwood 

Waldo W. Wilson, Jr. 10.00 
Robt. Weltin Gorman 1.00 

Anthony F. Dorley . . 10.00 
CioyfoB Robt. A. Griesedieck . 20.00 
Paul T. Fehlig 25.00 
Wm. H. Griesedieck . 10.00 

B. Daniel Coughlin . . 25.00 
W.J . Freschi 10.00 
Daniel Jos. Hagan . . 5.00 

Louis C. Fehlig . . . 10.00 Loaisiana Robert T. Hellrung . . 25.00 
A. Charles Giomi . , . 25.00 
H. L. Griesedieck, Jr. 5.00 John D. Huckstep, Jr. 5.00 Robt. Gerard Hughes 10.00 
E. J. Griesedieck, Jr. . 15.00 
Lee Joseph Lewis . . . 105.00 Moplewood Paul W. Kane 10.00 
Gerald V. McDermott 25.00 Horry K. Welge . . . 2.00 George R. Karr . . . . 25.00 
Thos. B. McDermott . 10.00 
Mexico 
Francis L. Kennedy . . 25.00 

Jos. R. O'Hanlon . . . 50.00 Lowell L Hogon . . . 5.00 Thomas R. Kennedy. . 10.00 
Francis J. Pollnow, Jr. 25.00 
Eugene F. Killoren . . 5.00 

Gene E. Strong ... . 10.00 IMoberly 
Francis A. Klein . . , . 25.00 

Fred C. Weber, Jr.. . 10.00 William A. O'Keefe . 25.00 
J. Jos. Langlon ... . 25.00 

George Heil Wrape . 5.00 
New UadrU Morton J. Lucas . . . 10.00 
Vincent J. Ring ... . 5.00 
Hal E. Hunter ... . 5.00 Wm. C. MacDonald . 25.00 Ferguson J. Thomas Mangan . . 20.00 
Normandy 

Francis R. Colgrave . 25.00 William A. McGuire . 5.00 Robert J. Callahan. . 2.00 
J. Reynolds Medart . 20.00 WILLIAM B. DREUX 
Glendale 

John Francis Higgins . 1.00 
Fredolin S. McNeill . 25.00 New Orleans City Chairman 
E. F. Mongelsdorf, Jr. 10.00 
Nerfb Kansas Cify R. C. Muckermann . . 200.00 $ Hannibal John F. Whitaker . . . 250.00 5.00 
Mfeksfer Groves HarHagfaa 
Carl R. Heiser 10.00 James P. Murphy . . . 25.00 
Overland Roland N. Dames. . . 25.00 C. Lawrence Rossiter. 25.00 
Mrs. Car! H. Heiser . 10.00 John A. Murphy . . . 1.00 
Cyril-B. Fites 10.00 Firman D. Fusz, Jr. . . 100.00 H«tta«* 
William J. Nolte . . . 10.00 Independence Clifford D. Marks. . . 10.00 John T. Olive, Jr. . . . 5.00 Wm. M. O'Connor . . 25.00 Leo J. Cushing .... 10.00 
William P. Murray . . 5.00 
ferryville Edw. W. Olszewski . . 5.00 UaMla 
Jefferson Cify Edward F. Lottes . . . 10.00 James J. O'Neal . . . 5.00 MONTANA John L Beaurivage . . 10.00 Donald R. Gillilond . . 15.00 John W. O'Neil 5.00 John E. Finnigan .. . 10.00 
flilliags
Pilof Grove 
Albert J. Rovorino . . 50.00 
James Robert Scott . 10.00 

Joplln Robert F. Converse . . 10.00 
John G. Neckermon . 5.00 
James F. Redding . . 10.00 
Ambrose Alexander . 10.00 

Ralph L Nolan ... . 10.00 Edward D. Doyle . . . 5.00 
Poplar BlaW S. R. Richtorsic ... . 50.00 
Jos. V. O'Donnell. . . 1.00 McCook Kansas Cify Melville Evan Dark . . 5.00 
Robt. R. Rosenthal . . 5.00 

Jas. S. O'Rourte, Jr.. 10.00 Clifton E Bloom .. . 3.00 Edw. F. Aylword . . . 2.00 
John K. Rowland . . . 10.00 

forfageville foffe Nelsaa 
Daniel L Sexton . . . 25.00 

Jas. P. Aylword, Jr.. . 10.00 
J. Carroll Pinkley . . . 5.00 Edw. M. Fredericks . . 20.00 Richard L Myers . . . 1.00 
Elmer E. Sexton ... . 5.00 Talbert C. Pinkley, Jr. 5.00 John F. Shaner ... . 20.00 R. C. Monahan ... . 10.00 Narfoik 
Martin A. Bertsch . . 5.00 
Norman M. Bowes . . 10.00 Joseph B. Shea .... 25.00 Torgus H. Oaas.... 20.00 
Richard J. Bowes . . . 5.00 Kieftmond Heigtfs Bernard M. DeLay . . 10.00 Thomas W. Shields . . 5.00 
E. V. Conkling 9.00 George J. Convy, Jr.. 25.00 Emifrmat Of olfafa John J. Doermer . . . 10.00 Robert E. Funsch . . . 10.00 James L. Murphy . . . 10.00 Gerald J. McGinley . 50.00 
George B. Stock . . . 5.00 Henry B. Surkamp . . 35.00 

Froncis E. Dugon, Jr. . 60.00 VVilliam J. Gillespie . 25.00 
Great Falls OaMk« 
Timothy W. Tunney . . 10.00 

G. J. Findley 10.00 Frank X.Tully • 10.00 John F. Weiler ... . 15.00 
Joseph V. Maronick . 25.00 Theodore S. Holpin . 5.00 
James B. Finucone . . 10.00 James D. Wrope . . . 5.00 Matthew Weis ... . 200.00 Heleaa 
Homer F. Hughes... 10.00 

Thos. F. Finucone . . . 15.00 
Koek Hill 10.00 John F. McGough . . 1.00 
William H. While . . 

'I James R. Higgins. . . 10.00 V. Hilton Fall ... . . 5.00 
Edward Kohl Hondlan 5.00 Arnaud J. Wilson . . . 10.00 Eugene F. Milbourn . . 10.00 
Francis J. luen, Jr. . 10.00 Eugene A. Fehlig . . . 2.00 Mark D. Eagleton, Jr. 10.00 Michael J. Ney ... . 25.00 
George C. Kopp . . . 5.00 St. Ckarles Bernard F. Grainey . . 5.00 
Ned Jos. Vacchio . . 5.00 

John F. Kramer ... . 20.00 Joseph M.Jenkins . . 10.00 Sedalia James D. Sullivan . . . 1.00 
Thomas A. Walsh, Jr.. 50.00 

Lawrence J. Lynch . . 10.00 Francis J. McEniry . . 20.00 
Sf. Josepfe Uvlagsfoa 
Foaea 

Joseph M. Moog . . . 10.00 John J. McGrath . . . 20.00 
Richard W. Snooks . . 10.00 A. Clark Volberding . 10.00 
Francis B. Hurley . . . 25.00 Cyrines H. Singer . . . 5.00 
H. J. Mossmon, Jr.. . 250.00 
Sitesfea 5.00  10.00 
Wm. C. McCarthy, Jr. William P. Hunter . . 5.00 Frank Unongst ... . 5.00 fork 
Sf. Loois 

Edward F. McGrath . 20.00 James C. Curran . , . 10.00 
SpriagCeld Uluoala

George J. McLiney . 5.00 Anonymous 5.00 
Jos. Wm . Kresock . . 35.00 Robert B. Cummins . . 25.00 
James P. Melzler . . . 5.00 Joseph J. Becker . . . 10.00 John H. Landers . . . 100.00 NEVADA 
Robert J. Metzler. . . 5.00 Fred J. Berkley ... . 25.00 John A. Quinn, Jr. . . 10.00" 
D. M. Nigro 50.00 Daniel J. Brady ... . 10.00 NEIRASKA ••aldar Ofy 
J. Albert Nigro ... . 25.00 John Breslin 2.00 Uaiverslfy Cify Joseph C. Manix . . . 25.00 
4ar«ra 
Thos. E. Oakes, Jr. . . 20.00 George Irving Bruno . 5.00 James F. Combs . . . 5.00 
Rtaa 

George C. Wanek . . 25.00 
John J. O'Connor, Jr. 25.00 John E. Byrne 10.00 Paul M.George . . . 10.00 
Edward P. Carville . . 20.00 

Richard S. O'Neill . . 10.00 Maurice J. Carroll . . 25.00 John J. Griffin, Jr. . . 5.00 Calmmkn Charles V. Owens, Jr. 1.00 Robt. E. Conconnon . 5.00 William B. Guyol . . . 5.00 Lester J. Carrig ... . 10.00 Richard P. Prezebel . 10.00 Paul Joseph Coy . . . 10.00 Richard J. Klohr .. . 5.00 0ridfeparf NEW William F. Purcell . . 15.00 Chas. LoB. Cucullu . . 1.00 Chas. Hayes Murphy. 10.00 
Robert Elvin O'Neal . 5.00 HAMPSHIRE 
Edward J. Reardon . . 5.00 Jomes A. Dacey, Jr. . 10.00 William J. Murphy . . 10.00 
Eiefer Coacarrf 
Thomas M. Reardon . 5.00 Henry L. Dahm, Jr.. . 15.00 John P. Sullivan . . . 2.00 Thomas E. Rooney . . 5.00 George B. Desloge . . 5.00 William J. Wornick . . 10.00 Otto Vincent Biba . . 25.00 Bernard J. Cushing . . 25.00 
Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. 
JANUARY I TO JUNE 30, 1948 
29 

A. Chas. Mueller . . . 6.00 limpluwami Poaas 6r«v« 
John W. McKenna . . 15.00 Joseph J. Baier ... . 10.00 Russell A. Kurtz ... . 5.00 Francis D. Garibaldi . 20.00 Joseph R. Carlton . . 18.75 _ , _. George R. Feeley . . . 10.00 M«eofoa 
Engl*we«4 10.00 Philip J. Heinle ... . 15 00 C^orles W. Mueller. . 
Otto E. Scherer ... . 25.00 

Robert F. Valestin . . 25.00 
Katwoy 
Fair Imwm 
25.00 

MofncfcM Lawrence Berko ... . Philip C. Steropoli . . 5.00 
Jas. T. Quinn 150.00 

William J. Dunham . . 5.00 Fords Paul V. Murphy ... . 10.00 Mdgefcid Park 
Raymond J. Gadek . . 5.00 James J. Hartley . . . 4.00 
MIIHagfoa 
Freeteld Howard J . Walsh . . . 10.00 River Edge Francis E Gibson . . . 25.00 Joseph L. Adrian . . . 5.00 
Monfclair Garfeld Rosclle 
John David Cooney . 5.00 John E. Porcoro ... . 5-00 Robert F. Larkin . . . 10.00 Lawrence T. Eby . . . 5.00 James S. McGurk. . . 3.00 
Glen Kidge 

Rnfkerford Richard J. Purcell. . . 300 Morris Plains 
Walter F. Donnelly . . 5.00 Giea Recfc Clifford H. Welsh . . 5.00 
Saycrville Chas. M. Loughrey . . 10.00 Morrisfewa 
Eugene A. Hauber . . 15.00 Gioneesfer CHy George A. Conway . . 10.00 Skorf Hills 
25 00 Lawrence A. Doyle . . 10.00 Emilio J. Gervasio . . 
Wm. C. Costello . . . 
5.00 Thomas J. Seedorff . . 5.00 
Haefcensaek 
10.00 

Stephen P. Nolan . . . 
Skrewsbnry 
Lucien J. Lacroix . . ., 

3.00 Daniel M. Verilli . . . 10.00 
Vincent J. McCue . . 10.00 

Haddenfield Newark 
Somcrviile 

William E Boss, Jr.. . 10.00 Alphonse V. Alvino 10.00 
ARTHUR D. CRONIN Donald L. Lusardi. . . 5.00 

Daniel D. Halpin . . . 25.00 Jos. M. Byrne, Jr.. . 500.00 
Detroit City Chairman Daniel Hurley 1.00 Alfred J. Callan, Jr. . 10.00 
SeaM Oraage 

John J. Reilly 10.00 Robert L Collan . . . 
'°-°° Elmer M. Matthews . . 10.00 
Dtrry l/ooBilefd 

Haddea HelgHs Sam A. Colarusso . . 5.00 tr. J. Zames 5.00 Normon Carl Joehlin . 2.00 10.00 Seatb River 
Frank E Swift 5.00 •|°''" [• 9°!??:'° " " " 
Oever Peter J. Quinn, Jr. , . 25.00 •10.00 Edw. R. Alexander . . 5.00 
Joseph A. DeLia . . . Ernest W. Rouscher . 10.00 John M. Denney . . . 25.00 _ „
Frank J. Keenan . . . 5.00 Harrison Philip P. Arnheiter . 5.00 Russell J. Farrell . . . 2.00 *"••' * 
Thomas H. Keenan . . 50.00 Bordeafowm 
25.00 

50.00 PWlip P. DlGiorgio . . FronMin John A. Ratigan . . . 10.00 Hasbronck Helgfcfs Gervase A. Froelich . 
387.00 •'• Norbert Gelson . . Ernest Decato 3.00 Henry E Brown ... . 10.00 I QO Jean R. LePage, Jr. . 
Raymond A. Geiger . 10.00 
BoBBd Ireek Thomas Henry Green . 5.00 
W. Frank Welch . . . 10.00 
50.00 A't°" C. Velie ... . 5.00 

Robert G. Quinn . . . 20.00 Hawerfb Geo. Francis Hewson . 
Hanover 

David Louis Ardito . . 5.00 Joseph P. OToole . . 1.00 '*•*• J"'" ' M. Carr . . 25.00 
Bradley feaeft 
Milton J. Piepul . . . . 5.00 
Donald C. Seuffert. . 
.'0-00 Teaneek 

Geo. A. Barisciilo. Jr. 10.00 Hatvffcorne 
Manefcesfer 

Joseph A. Seuffert . . 
'°° ° Robert E Burke 10.00 
Joseph C. Spohr, Jr. . 5.00 

Moxime'L Gouthier . 
25.00 Braat Beach Arthur C. Tutela . . . 
10-00 William H. O'Brien . . 5.00 

Francis J. Hand . . . 
50.00 Henry B. O'Neill . . . 5.00 Higkland Park James R. Waldron . . 25.00 
Albert J. Schwartz . . 10.00 Robert F. O'Neill . . . 10.00 Arthur D. Walsh . . . 10.00 Wm. J. Waldron, Jr. . 10.00 Trenfen Romeo Champagne . 10.00 Herbert G. Callan . . 5.00 Santo L Belli 5.00 
Caldwell 

Daniel F. Cronin . . . HigUaads Harry C. Burger . . . 5.00 
5.00 

Francis F. McDermitt. 10.00 Newfoa 
Joseph Dallaire . . . . 10.00 James P. Murray . . . 5.00 Carlton B. Reilly . . . 10.00 Joseph P. Quinn, Jr. . 25.00 
4.00 Carney'% PoM Edward J. Sullivan . . 10.00 
Roy Emile . Higkfefewa 
NaNcy James A. Waldron . . 10.00 
E. L Gadbois 50.00 Robert J. Thomos . . . 10.00 
Alphonsus J. Braun . . 10.00 

Roger Mora 25.00 A. M. Duncan 20.00 Joseph J. Waldron . . 10.00 Clifton 
Hofcokas 

20.00 T. Howard Waldron . 20.00 Michael J. Bishko . . . 5.00 
A. J. Precouri ... . 25.00 Donald B. Killian . . . 
Edw. Jos. Hanly, Jr. . 10.00 

Leo A. Robitaille . . . 1.00 
3.00 George J. Keenan , . 2.00 Palaqfra Uaioa Paul Roy frviagfea 
Miss Mary McNamara 5.00 (Henry P. Hathaway . 12 00 James H. Bailey .. . 10.00 
Robert Roy 3.00 
Vincent Thos. Curran . 5.00 Angelo St. Jean . . . 2.00 Closfer Passaic Uaioa Cify Jersey Cify 
Timothy C. Sullivan . . 25.00 Jos. A. Hoffman, Jr. . 10.00 John R. Blanda ... . 15.00 Martin J. Deutsch. . . 5.00 Paul R. Theodore . . . 100.00 V. C. A. Bitter, Jr. . . 25.00 Andrew R. Sokerka . . 15.00 
Collingswood 
Murray J. Booth . . . 10.00 

Nashua Upper Meatdair 
John F. O'Haro ... . 5.00 Pofersea 
Angus M. Gillon . . . 5.00 Peter M. Belmont. . . 10.00 
Adrien P. Francoeur . 25.00 
Lester J. Wolf .... 5.00 Paul S. Hussar .... Leo J. Costello .... 
2.00 ^•°° Eugene J. Dean, Jr. . 3.00 Sumapee Richard J. Dericks . . 25.00 ^
William D. Sullivan . . Geo. E. Wenz, Jr. , . 100.00 

Crawford 10.00 
Jarlath M. Siottery . . 5.00 Rev. S. L Egan ... . 5.00 Wesf Colliagswood Eugene G. Rau ... . 50.00 
Satvatore T. Ferrari. . 20.00 Wm. A. McCormick 5.00 
Wolter J. Cordes . . . 10.00 
Kearay James P. Kehoe ... . 5.00 
NEW JERSEY Wesffeld 
Bast Orange Wm. P. Dioguardi . . 1.00 Arnold C. Nunnink . . 2.50 
10.00 
.

AUenliBrst B. A. O'Connor, Jr. . William J. Woods
Robert B. Casey . . . 5.00 25.00 . ^i. - .. Herbert P. McCobe . 25.00 Chas. Edw. Melia . . . 1.00 Warren McNish . . . 10.00 Perfb 4niboy 
25.00 Westmont 

 . . . Anthony V. Ceres . . . 
•asUag Ridge Daniel J. O'Neill 18.75 LaaberfvIIie 15.00 Kevin B. O'Doherty . . 10.00 
Peter P. Dupay ... . 50.00 Henry J. Prendergast. 5.00 Philip J. Faherty, Jr. . 10.00 Fred J. Klein Robert E Shields . . . 5.00 PUIIipsbarg 
Wesf New Tork 

layoHBe Chas. A. Winter . . . 35.00 Uadca Frank J. Viscomi . . . 5.00 Angela B. Amalo . . . 5.00 
Daniel J. Cullinon . . 5.00 
Julius P. Rocca . . . 2.80 Charles S. Lo Bue . . . 3.00 
Thaddeus S. Porawski. 15.00 EliiabeM 
Plaiaffefd Ward F. O'Connor . . 10.00 James J. Fennell . . . 10.00 Lyadbarsf 
Henry E Hinsenkamp 5.00 Mfesf Orange George L O'Connor . 10.00 Wm. P. Fitzgerald . . 5.00 Gerald J. Tsurouka . 
20.00 William D. Wolke . . . 5.00 John F. McKenna . . . 5.00 
Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. 
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATION 
30 

Wtartoa John D. Harrington . . 1.00 John C. Bermingham . 20.00 Bernard J. Fagan . . 5.00 John F. Heffernan . . 20.00 John F. X. Regan. . . 1.00 Lawrence F. Hickey. . 10.00 
taysMe 

Walter C. Ivancevic . 5.00 WoedbrUga Louis A- MacKinzie . 10.00 
Nicholas M. Kalmes . 5.00 John E. Nelson ... . 30.00 John A. Reilly.... 15.00 
John C. Kelleher . . . 5.00 Augustine B. Kelly . . 5.00 Joseph P. Kelly ... . 5.00 
Wood KUgo • ••Hair* 

Gerard Jos. Hekker . 1.00 Eugene C. Wohlhorn . 5.00 
F. R. MacCauley . . . 5.00 

Robt. J. VonHoene . . 5.00 
••/le Harbor 

Bernard A. Mago . . . 25.00 Joseph V. Lenihan . . 10.00 Shoun A. McDermott. 2.00 Edward J. Sullivan . . 
5.00 
Francis J . McGahren . 10.00 2.00 
NEW MEXICO Edward J. Tracey . . . D. J. McNamara, Jr.. 5.00 
10.00 
Albuqaorqao James H. Tracey . . . A. V. Mistretta ... . 5.00 
10.00 
John L Duggan ... . 5.00 John F. Tracey ... . Robert W. Mollica . . 5.00 
A. R. Hebenstreil. . . 200.00 Beaos foiat William B. Moss . . . 5.00 
B. A. Hebenstreit. . . 50.00 Thomas F. Farley, Jr. . 5.00 Thomas J. Mulvey . . 1.00 
William J. Murphy . . 25.00 
Joseph T. Norris , . . 10.00 

Chas. F. O'Malley . . 10.00 Samuel B. Luckariello. 1.00 
toyard BIflgtaafea 

Robert J. Reale ... . 10.00 Thomas P. Foy ... . 25.00 Robert E. Ahearn . . . 5.00 Charles J., Reilly . . . 1.00 Edward P. Hogan . . . 5.00 
William F. Reilly . . . 1.00 James H. Hogan . . . 10.00 Joseph J. Rossati . . . 5.00 
Cl0¥fs 

Thomas E. Burns ... . 
'°:°° John T. Kone 10.00 
Robert M. Rossiter . . 5.00 

Philip Edwin Lyons . . 
^•°° John W. Kane .... 50.00 George N. Shea . . . 10.00 
LasCraecs aiatdell Joseph J. Sherer . . . 5.00 James C. Stevenson . Andrew J. Shiebler . . 5.00 Paul J. Smaldone . . . 3.00 
25.00 Joseph E. Gueth . . . 10.00 
Reswed •fae Moanfaia late 
Peter J. Smaldone . . 3.00 
DANIEL D. HALPIN 

James T. Jennings . . 10.00 Patrick F. Collins . . . 5.00 
Richard J. Vail ... . 2.00 

Camden (N.J.) City Chairman r^ Bolivar Cosimir E. Vance . . . 10.00 
James P. Walsh ... . 5.00 

Albert J. Maison . . . 100.00 
^ NEW YORK Maurice F. Quinn . . . 15.00 Eostdkasfar 
W. Harold Welch . . 25.00 4lbaay •roekport Alfred C. Ryan ... . 25.00 Robert E Philpott . . 2.00 
John B. White, Jr. . . 1.00 Thomas A. Burns . . . 5.00 
Martin A. Ryan .... 
Arthur J. Bradley . . . 5.00 Anthony F. Zcgame . 5.00 Burton M. Shinners . . 
50.M ^-* Bmkant 

15.00 Brooklyn Post Office 
Bronx jgg A. J. Perrine, Jr. . . . 15.00 
Norman E. Wietig . . 
G. Cullen Burke ... . 10.00 Holy Name Society 100.00 
John M. Dolan . . . . 20.00 
Nicholas H. Willett. . 1-00 Eosflocknray 
John F. Campbell -. 50.00 Anonymous 15.00 
Warren S. Fogel . . . 25.00 
Peter A. Wozniak . . . 
25.00 John C. Dillon ; . . . 5.00 

Joseph W. Conlon . . 15.00 
F. W. Honerkomp, Jr. 5.00 
•afalo 

Francis X. Disney . --25.00 Calarfaata 
Henry V. Howley , . . 100.00 East Syracas* James J. Drislane . . . 15.00 
Notre Dome Club . . 4500.00 Francis R. Lombard© . 1.00 Mr., Mrs. 6«o. T. Ball 25.00 Jerome R. Farron .. . 1.00 Bernard A. Duffy . . . 12.25 
Gordon Bennett . . . 10.00 

Edward J. Mahon . . . 5.00 
Caaaarfalfaa Thomas E Snyder. . . 5.00 
Bernard J. Bird ... . 25.00 
5.00 

James F. Murray . . . 5.00 Henry N. Rogers . . . 10.00 
Martin H. Brennan . . 25.00 William F. Kaveny . . 3 00 East WIIHstaa tarfc 
Gerard J. Robbett . . 5.00 Robert L Schaefer . . 3.00 'O-OO.WilliamT. Slader. . 15.00 
Thomas J. Brobson . . 10.00 J. Hugh Smith ... . 
William J. Rogers . . 10.00 Paul H. Weber ... . 5.00 Vincent J. Brown . . . 25.00 Cfe«pp«fB« 
Paul A. Sartoretto . . 10.00 Bboaotor
Robert J. Burns ... . 25.00 

Joseph P. Wurzler . . 2.00 Charles J. Clouss . . . 10.00 
illfoaa Joseph W. Schmidt. . 5.00 Stephan P. Banas . . 
5.00 

Claraaca 
J. Francis Carver . . . 5.00 Bronzvi/le C. J. Rickard . . . . , 10.00 
James T. Clouss . . . 10.00 

Richard A. Batt.... 5.00 AmtfyvIHe William C. Keefe . . . 10.00 John R. Connors . . . 5.00 BggorfsvMo 
John A. Mullen ... . 25.00 John D.Curtis, Jr. . . 15.00 Cllafoa 
Daniel J. Bradley . , . 10.00 Ralph F. Else !0.00 William J. Tully ... . 2.00 Richard T. Danahy . . 5.00 George A. Richter . . 5.00 
T. John Folks, Jr. . . . 25.00 
Ellaavllla 
Robert W. Degenhart 5.00 

Brooklyn Clyrfa 
ilaisfertfaM Frederick F. Suter. . . 1.00 
Thomas L Dowd . . . 10.00 

R. J. Anderson, Jr. . . 5.00 George R. Maloy . . . 500 
Joseph A. Bucci.... 10.00 Owen W. Doyle ... . 20.00 
Bllcoffvllla 

George W. Barso . . . 5.00 
William J. Fallon . . . 2.00 Coralag 
9 Arcado F. B. Fitzpatrick ... . 100.00 
William T. Bonwich . . 2.00 
Edward T. Flanigon . . 7.00 Joseph E Canny . . . 5.00 
Francis H. Connors . . 5.00 Jos. W. Fitzpatrick . . 55.00 
Edw. A. Bracken, Jr. . 5.00 
John P. Fox, Jr. . . . . 10.00 Peter M. Griffin ... . 25.00 Wm. A. Bracken . . . 5.00 
Astoria George G. Haggerty 3.00 John J. Holmes ... . 10.00 Elaitant 
Andrew J. Burke . . . 10.00 
Joseph M. Lane . . . 10.00 William T. Hall ... . 10.00 Thomas L McMahon . 12.00 Thomas D. Boyle . . . 5.00 Joseph P. Burke ... . 10.00 
Wm. F. Hannon, Jr. . 5.00 Donald J. Miller . . . 5.00 Eugene T. Connelly . . 50.00 
ilabara 

10.00 
Robert J. Hurley . . . 5.00 James J. Corbett. . . 5.00 
Leslie J . Alberici . . . 1.00 Nicholas S. Casillo . . 20.00 CorHmmd
Jomes D. Irwin ... . 25.00 Samuel Y. Hyde . . . 10.00 
Herbert T. Anderson . 5.00 John J. Covanagh . . 5.00 H. Justin Corcoran . . 25.00 
Donald G. Jackson . . 5.00 Alvaro V. Lesmez . . . 5.00 
Floyd P. Bradley . . . 5.00 James V. Cowley . . . 10.00 Philip L Foote ... . 5.00 
Maximilian G. Kazus . 5.00 John A. Reilly 2.00 
John H. Clifford . . . 10.00 Wm. M. Clemency . . 5.00 
Thos. F. Kenny, Jr. . . 10.00 OaWHf Gene J. Tunney .... 5.00 
William M. Foster . . 10.00 Francis J. Concannon 10.00 
Robert A. Klein ... . 5.00 Thomas J. Walsh . . . 60.00 
Mark E. Mooney . . . 25.00 
Thomas R. Herbert. . 5.00 Albert J. Dannemiller 20.00 
John H. Kuhlmann . . 3.50 
Haiira 

Robert M. Murphy . . 5.00 Thomas A. Delia . . . 25.00 Doaffaatea 
Edward F. Kumrow . . 5.00 

John E. Walsh ... . 10.00 Dominic P. Del Sole . . • 5.00 Paul M. Donovan . . . 10.00 
Edward F. Bourke . . . 5.00 
James W. Leising . . . 5.00 

5.00 . Stephan M. Holleran . 5.00 James F. Mahoney . . I.OO OaaUrft Francis F. O'Brien . . 
John L. Worden . . . A. William DiBrienza 10.00 
Richard J. Digan . . . 2.00 25.00 
Aa Sable Forks 

William H. Monard . 10.00 John D. Koch 25.00 James L O'Dea . . . 
Jos. E. Di Spigno . . . 1.00 5.00 Louis P. Meconi.... 5.00 Joseph N. Marcin . . 10.00 
William T. Doyle . . . 5.00 
Dartoaivina Eatilcatt 
Rev. B. D. McCarthy . 10.00 

Vafavia 1.00 
Robert J. Lauer... . 10.00 Edw. E O'Brien .. . . 25.00 
Norman L. McLane . . 5.00 

Thomas G. Canty. . . 10.00 James F. Dwyer.... 74.00 
10.00 Thomas A. Foley . . . 1.00 Robert T. Moore . . . 5.00 En f ilarani falrport
Donald M. Donahue . James W. Murray . . 5.00 David S. Greenburg . 
1.00 Robert P. Nenno . . . 10.00 Robert J. Thines . . . 10.00 Walter J. Scholand . . 10.00 
Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. 
31 
Valentine H. Martin . 3.50 Robert E. O'Hayer . . 20.00 F. H. Paulmann, Jr.. . 25.00 John J. Sheehon . . . 50.00 
New rork CHy 
Notre Dame Club . . 1000.00 

Charles J. Metzger. . 5.00 Thos. F. O'Neil, Jr.. . 50.00 Robert H. Smith . . . 30.00 Mn. Thos. F. O'Neil . 150.00 Charles H. Streotor . 10.00 
URoy HerUaMr Louis P. Brady, Jr. . . 5.00 
D. C. Shaughnessy . . 50.00 Thomas K. O'Melia . . 5.00 Uvoala 
HlgUaad FMt 

Walter J. Murphy . . 5.00 
Patrick J. Carroll . . . 5.00 John D. Hogon ... . 10.00 Lackjierf Daniel P. Falsioni. . . 25.00 
HoBaey* Fall* 

J. Revilt Oldhom . . . 10.00 
Francis J. Collins . . . 100.00 

Ua g Islaad City 
Horaoll Donald T. Ryan .... 10.00 
Robert B. Cameron . . 20.00 John E Nugent.... 5.00 Leadoavlll* 
Edward J . Eckert. . . 25.00 
Heoiiek Falls 

Fiorenzo V. Lopardo . 5.00 Maloat 
R. M. Cardinal, Jr.. . 10.00 
Halberfoa 

Lawrence Raville . . . 2.00 
Thomas F. Coccitti .". 1.00 

M.CTockley 10.00 
Maaiaroaeek 
Arthur J. McGee . . . 10.00 

JosephW. O'Reilly. . 2.00 Ifkaeo Benjamin M. Scherer. 5.00 James J. Clynes . . 5.00 
Maakauet 
Eugene J.Giles . . . 2.00 

Joseph V. Gallagher. 25.00 
Peter L Pesoli.... 2.00 

Samuel McQuoid . . . 10.00 
Francis J. Ruane . . . 2.00 

George E. Milton . . . 10.00 
JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR. 

Jaeksoa Hclfkft Jos. C. Sheridan, Jr. . 5.00 
Newark (N.J.) City Chairman Wm. J. Bogan, Jr. . . 5.00 Thames J. Walker . . 25.00 

John J. Dunleovy . . . 5.00 

Marykaoll 
Clifford C. Neilson . . 5.00 William J. Leovey . . 5.00 
Horol fork 

Clare L Touhey . . . 5.00 Rev. M. O'Connor . . 5.00 
Jos. A. Finneron, Jr. . 5.00 

Thos. J. MocDevitt . . 25.00 Daniel J. Guiney . . . 10.00 kfasseaa 
Gleadole 

John L Nonovic . . . 10.00 Froncis M. Guiney . . 10.00 John J. Dinneen . . . 8.50 
Chos. N. Heckelmonn 10.00 Wm. J. Powell, Jr. . . 5.00 John J. Guiney ... . 10.00 
Louis I. Veneziani. . . 5.00 

klockaaicviile Florence 
Glen Head 

Thomas J. Molloy . . . 5.00 Jaaaica Nicholas J. Tancredi . 10.00 Paul D. Clark 5.00 
Walter J. Desel, Jr.. . 5.00 

Graad Gorge 
Fiushing James V. Donnelly, Jr. 15.00 
Robert M. Slack . . . 10.00 William A. Boumert . 1.00 
William R. Amonn . . 10.00 
Walter G. Hillis . , . 10.00 

Merrick 
Great Neefc Vincent J. Ryan ... . 5.00 
Joseph W. Bean . . . 5.00 Paul R. Devereain . . 20.00 
John B. O'Donaghue . 10.00 
Joseph P. Kissling. . . 10.00 O. Paul Beretz ... . 15.00 Robert A. McVely . . 10.00 Charles T. Bradley . . 1.00 Jokasoa CHy MIddletowB Thomas E. Roche . . . 5.00 M. J. Grosberger . . . 1.00 
Berchmon J. Imholz . 10.00 Solvolore P. Scarlota 5.00 Chorles J. Kirby . . . 5.00 
Richard P. Burchill . . 5.00 
Francis X. Haines . . 10.00 

Mtaeela 
Albert J. Tuohy. . . . 5.00 J. C. MocDevitt, Jr. . 5.00 Rafoaak Chas. F. Quinn, Jr. . . 15.00 
Joseph M. Walsh . . . 10.00 Dominic Moffo ... . 1.00 James S. Brown ... . 10.00 Wm. F. Welsh, Jr. . . 5.00 
J. Gregory Rice . . •. . 25.00 
Forest Hills Keaaiore Uaamt Wsco Greeawick 

John L Bauer, Jr.. . . 10.00 
Henry L Burns ... . 25.00 

Bernord A. Garber . . 25.00 
A. F. Eorley, Jr. .. . 50.00 Daniel J. Rourke . . . 5.00 
Francis J. Cass ... . 5.00 

Thomas R. Hardori . . 35.00 Mt. VurmoK
Hamborg Vincent A. Doigler . . 10.00 
George L Olvony . . 5.00 Eugene L. O'Brien . . 5.00 
WilliomP. Ca5s,Jr.. . 10.00 William P. Dowdali . . 25.00 
Wm. J. Olvony, Jr.. . 5.00 John P. Wiethoff . . . 10.00 
Henry E. Dendler . . . 10.00 Robert W . Dunn . . . 20.00 
John B. Powers ... . 5.00 John F. Hortman . . . 5.00' John B. McGee ... . 5.00 Newark 
Gerald Saegert.... 5.00 

James H. Sullivan . . 10.00 Wm. G. O'Connell . . 7.00 Joseph A. Honey . . . 5.00 
Jomes F. Shea ... . 25.00 Richard G. Thoen . . 3.00 Thomas F. Healy .. . 1.00 
Haaeock Ferf Edward 

Paul W. O'Connell . . 7.50 
Kew Garimat

C. R. Vander Voort. . 10.00 
Thomos J. Sullivon . . 2.00 Eugene A. Schiltz . . . 5.00 
Francis L Kunkel . . . 5.00 
Haaaibal 

FraaUIn Square Leo B. Kunkel 5.00 Ntwfcargk Francis J. Morrison . . 1.00 
Walter B. Hoffman . . 1.00 Paul J. Maholchic . . 5.00 Edward D. Blake .. . 1.00 
Harrlsoa Kiagsfoa 

Fredonlc New Hartford 
William F. Holpin . . 5.00 
John C. Flanagan . . 5.00 

John L Moloney . . . 2.00 John J. Cauley ... . 5.00 Harfsdale Joseph A. Mohor, Jr.. 10.00 
Robert T. Madden . . 5.00 
Garden Cify 

Wm. a Cotter, Sr. . . 100.00 Robert M. Ortale . . 1.0.00 
Joseph H. Dittrich . . 5.00 .New Hyde Park 
V. A. Gorman ..... 300.00 Julian C.Tonsmeire . 10.00 
Hasflags-oa-Hadsoa 
Edward L Arthur . . , 5.00 John H. McCabe. . . 1.00 
Uke Placid 

William J. Floch . . . 5.00 
Geaeseo 
William B. Madden . 25.00 
Haverstraw

Ernest F. LoVigne . . . 5.00 New Reekeil* Williom J. Morrissey . 5.00 
Laaeasfer Geaevo 
John EColville. . . . 10.00 
James L Fitzgerald . 2.00 Roman P. Belmont . . 15.00 
Hempsfead Edw. J. Dempsey . . . 5.00 
John H. Davis Larekaoaf VValterW. Fegan 10.00 
Joseph T. DeBott . . . 5.00  12.00 . , 
Joseph M. Hilbert . . 25.00 John J. Cassidy .... 5.00 Wm. H. Gallin, Jr.. . 10.00 
James E. Hurley . . . 5.00 

Paul A. Mulcohy . . . 20.00 Charles E. Koegler . . 5.00 Raymond McCobe . . 10.00 Daniel J. Mahoney . . 10.00 
JohnT. Bolfe 
Edwin A. Berkery . . . Joseph L Borda . . . Walter W. Buckley . . Robert L Cahill . . . Robert M. Cannon . . William J. Carey . . . Hugh F. Carroll . . . Geo. W. Crongeyer . 
J. Gerald Cuddihy . . John J. Dorsey .... Oscor J. Dorwin . . . Delbert J. Duchesne . John J. Dugon .... John F. Finneron . . . Robert J. Firth ... . Fred V, Flynn Thomas A. Golligon . Vincent A. Gorman . . 
R. M. Grummell. . . . Ernest E. Hammer . . Edward F. Horgan . . Willard Higgins . . . Williom J. Hogon . . Edward J. Hoyt... . John G.Jaeger. . . . Frank J. Jenny ... . John A. Lynch .... Hector"J. Marioni . . James A. Marohn . . 
A. J. Maucieri .... HenryJ. McAdoms. . John B. McAnulty . . Justin C. McConn . . 
J. E. McCarthy, Jr.. . Jos. J. McGoldrick . . John P. McKenna . . . Leo V. McLaughlin . . 
L A. McLoughlin, Jr.. 100.00 
 18.75  25.00  10.00  10.00  100.00  25.00  5.00  10.00  50.00  50.00  10.00  100.00  5.00  10.00  20.00 
 3.00 
 10.00. 
 25.00  5.00  10.00  100.00  10.00  20.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  15.00  25.00  5.00  25.00  5.00  25.00  10.00  100.00  10.00  25.00  25.00  10.00 
Albert H. Monocelli . Paul F. Mueller ... . William F. Neary . . . 
D. J. O'Connell, Jr.. .. Daniel J. O'Neil . . _. Thomas G. Proctor . . 
A. J. Pugliese William E. Ouinn, Jr.. Leo J. Rasche Bernard F. Reilly . . . Paul A. Reilly Jomes R. Retter . . . Harold C. Rizzi ... . Edward C. Roney . . . Edward P. Shonley . . Robert D. Shea ... . Stephen E Sherry . . . 
John W. Snakord. . . Geo. E Sokolsky . . . Joseph B. Stio'.... Cornelius J. Styers . . John L. Toole Theo. T. Toole, Jr. . . Timothy J. Toomey . . Joseph A. Tracy . . . Thomas C. Vincent . . Herbert M. Walsh . . John J. Walsh ... . Thomas J. Walsh . . . John M.Wilson. .. . 
 50.00  10.00  25.00  10.00  50.00  15.00  10.00  10.00  100.00  2.00  1.00  5.00  5.00  25.00  10.00  50.00  2.00  10.00  75.00  10.00  1.00  30.00  20.00  5.00  5.00  25.00  25.00  5.00  10.00  15.00 
F. R. Huisling Found. 2000.00 Edward V. Killeen . . . 100.00 

Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATION 
32 

iUverdalc^a-Hadsea 
E. Lowib 250.00 
Martin Siono 50.00 
Mrs. Frank C. Suoraz 50.00 
Wom w Bros. Circuit 
Sattltment Corp. . 1000.00 CharUs A Wisnar . . 25.00 
Niagara Falls 

John G. Byrne ... . 25.00 George J. Irwin ... . 15.00 James E. Seymour . . 25.00 Martin J. Trovers . . . 10.00 
Nertkperf 

John J. Archer ... . 1.00 
Norft TarryfowB 

John P. Doyle, Jr.. . . 1.00 Jas. J. Sherry, Sr.. . . 5.00 
HoHk Tenawaada 

John P. Shine 10.00 Anthony W. Brick . . . 10.00 
Ogdeasbarg 

Joseph T. Bornelt. . . 5.00 
O/caa 

Walter B. Carlson, Jr. 5.00 William R. Fogan . . 10.00 
OaaMa 

Richard A. Bloom . . . 25.00 
Oaeeafa 

Gerald R. Molinari . . 10.00 
Oraagcbarg 

Robert F. Gehres . . . 5.00 
Orlskoay 

Daniel E. Waterbury . 10.00 
Oswego 
10.00 

Francis M. Linehan . 
farkeftesfcr 

Thomas J. Hughes . . 10.00 
Pelhaai 

John T. Ford 10.00 Robert L Gannon . . 5.00 
A.S. Hardart,Jr.. . . 50.00 Edmund E. Harvey. . 10.00 John R. Murphy .. . 1.00 George M. Tully .. . 1.00 John H. Glovin ... . 5.00 Geo. M. O'Neil, Jr. . 25.00 
f eaa faa 

Victor F. Corcoran . . 5.00 
f/aadoaie 

Edward J. Beckman . 5.00 
Ploffsbargk 

Vincent L Jerry ... . 30.00 Clyde A. Lewis 25.00 
Clorence P. Lynch . . 20.00 
Pofaf Leokoat 

James M. Ledwith . . 2.00 
Porf Ckesfar 

Peter G. Cassone . . . 5.00 Richard F. Da Buono . 2.00 
Pertvil/e 

Joseph K. Duffey .. . 2.00 Robert F. Duffey .. . 1.00 
Perf Wasklagfea 

Nicholas J. Salerno . 5.00 
Peagkkeepsfe 

Richard R. McCabe . 1.00 Thomas F. X. Vail. . . 2.00 
Horry J. Walters, Jr.. 
Reeketfcr 
Gerald A. Ashe . . . 
William R. Bell ... . 
Edword H. Carson . . 
Frank X. Connelly . . . 
John E. Conway . . . 
Joseph R. Corcoran . 
Robert L. Corcoran . 
Anthony E. DeSimon . 
Edward C. Diringer. . 
John G. Dorschel . . 
Bernard J. Eilers . . . 
Joseph N. Flood .. . 
Joseph P. Flynn ... . 
Francis G. Gentner . . 
Hugh B. Good .... 
Jos. L. Guzzetto, Jr. . 
John M. Hedges, Jr. . 
Thos. McL Higgins . . 
Lawrence F. Kelly . . . John R. Klee Chester S. Lampert. . 
Robt. H. MocLemole . Joseph A. McCobe . 
A. C. McPortlond . . Raymond J. Mead . . Thomas J. Meagher . Edward F. Miller . . . Richard J. Miller . . . Arnold B. Morrison . . John T. Murray, Jr. . Stanford E. Murray . . Charles M. Norton . . Francis A. Norton . . John Norton Philip A. O'Connor . Edward L O'Hara . . Valentine R. Pieronek . Joseph A. Rorick . . . John H. Slottery . . . Joseph W. Skelly . . . Richard T. Sullivan . . Wm. T. Whelehan . . Harry C. Wright . . . Victor G. Yawman . . 
William E. Young . . John M. Blackwood . 
Fred 6 . Blum 
Mr., Mrs. Richard 
J. Kelly Dennis P. Sheehan . . Maurice E. Sheehon . 
Ky* Richard.J. Barber. . . 10.00 Joseph J. Farwell. . . 2.00 
H. Cloy Johnson . . . 50.00 
Sf.>Uk«Bs Robert H. Deegan . . 5.00 Louis J. Del Prete . . 10.00 Wesley D. Forman . . 5.00 Daniel G. Sullivan . . 3.00 
St. Goorf • 
C. Joseph Hylcnd . . 10.00 
Saraaac Lake Francis E. Buckley. . 5.00 Edward F. Mulflur . . 10.00 
Seandafe 
F. J. Fahrendorf . . . 15.00 Jos. R. Glennon, Jr. . 10.00 Lawrence J. Goebeler 10.00 
Sekeaeefady 
Thomas R. Bristol . . . 10.00 
John J. Donahue . . . 20.00 
John J. Huether . . . 25.00 
John F. Hurley .... 5.00 
John H. Kalteux .. . 10.00 
John J. Meehan . . . 10.00 
John F. Nace 5.00 

Thomas J. Reilly . . . 25.00 DR. WILLIAM L NEFF 
Anthony A. Rinello . . 5.00 Mandan (N. D.) City Chairman 
Jos. W. Schaeffer . . 5.00 
R. M.Schleck,Jr.. . . 25.00 

G. A. Lambiente . . . 5.00 Wafctfor Charles E. Welsh . . . 5.00 
John E, McAuliffe. . . 10.00 Poul D. Holbort .'. 5.00 Lawrence L. Weiss . . 10.00 
John P. Mulerig . . . 10.00 George E. York ... . 10.00 
Mfosfftaiy 

John H. Terry 25.00 Gordon L Forester. 5.00 
Sekaylervllle Hawley E Van Swall . 10.00 
James G. Wallace . . 15.00 WHf# rMHM 
Joseph M. Cheney . . 2.0O 
MichaelJ. Adrian . . 15.00 

Scofla Tfcaaderot* 
William L. Whitely . . 2.00 Henry C. Brosey . . . 10.00 Richard A. Carney . . 3.00 
Donald J. Kelsey . . . 10.00 
WMvnfWM 

Toaawaada 
E.G. McEneaney, Jr.. 50.00 John H. Donohue, Jr.. 10.00 
John A. Loritsch . . . 10.00 
George G. Thompson 5.00 

WWiuHviva Seaeea Falls A. E Jenkins ..... 50.00 
TackakM 
John A. Hoyt, Jr.. . . 15.00 
Stephen L Kelleher . 1.00 Thomas M. Philpott. . 5.00 Silver Creek John J. Kearney, Jr. 3.00 
Francis M. Spiegel . . 5.00 Robert P. Galloway . 25.00 Victor R. Mercado . 5.00 
William Wenzel . . . 10.00 Lawr. F. O'Connor . 3J00
Sayder 

Troy 
Carlos H. Frank . . . 20.00 

Joseph A. Judge . . . 
John J. Hodson ... . 15.00 10.00 
2 00 ^'^^"^ ^- Carey . . 

Francis H. Roche . . . 
Francis J. Conforti. 15.00 
Soafk Heapsfead 

Society of the Friends Jordan T. Hargrove . 10.00 of SL Patrick of Troy 200.00 R°g«fP-0'R«i"y--5.00 Taaftars 
Sfatta Islaad 

IHiem 
Thos. F. Carty, Jr. . laoo 
Joseph B. Murray. . . 3.00 

Herbert C. Daiker . . 
•inn ^' ^'v " Frasor . . 30.00 
John J. Roche .... 5.00 

Daniel P. Fessia ... . Bernard F. Sheeran . . 2.00 
,;-°° William A. Lynch . . , 10.00 Francis E. Hackett . . 
25.00 Safera A. Chas. Hitzelberger c'nn And™* R- Maffei . 
'•" ' James P. Mansfield. 1.00 

John R. Lackey .... 
Thomas P. Ford ... . 2.00 
'•°° Edward T.Tighe . . . 10.00 

Edward J. Sweeney . . 5.00 
Joseph C. Whitford . 10.00 rarkvMo Syraease 
John C. Petrone '. . . 25.00 

Louis P. Clark 5.00 Walter L Brehmer . . 5.00 Valley Sfraaai Edward M. Broscoe . . 10.00. Charles J . Elderkin . . 2.00 Edw. J. Burke, Jr.. . . 5.00 Jerome P. Hendei . . ' 10.00 NORTH 
William J. Byrne . . . 10.00 CAROUNA 
Mfofarfawa 
William S. Gate .. . 10.00 

George H. Bums . . . 2.00 AthvriH*
Eugene N. Daly, Jr. . 10.00 

Bernard R. Ouclos . . 2.00 Edward J. Koontz. . . 5.00 
F. T. De Lany .... 20.00 John R. Galloway . . 2.00 
Robert E. Dewey . .'. 5.00 

Jacob E. Eckel .... 100.00 Wavoriy Faris S. Monsour . . . ; 1.00 Richard H. Greene,. . 5.00 
Francis J. Clohessy . . 5.00 tatrfafcarf Rev. J. G. Harrison . . 25.00 
Hf^yl^g^ Samuel G. Rizk . . . : . 5.00 
Daniel A. Kelley . . . 20.00 Leo D. Kelley 100.00 Paul E Pfeiffer 10.00 laMf t Edwin W. Kenefake . 5.00 Harry F. Schubmohl . 5.00 C. F. Powers, Jr. ... 7.50 
Paf aaai Valley 
William C. O'Connor 
Xlekaioad Hill 
Cornelius F. Gillespie. Charles G. Lyden . . . 
Klverdale 
George H. Rohrs . . . 

 10.00  1.00  5.00  10.00 
Xeekaway leaek 

Thomas E. Reilly . . . 5.00 James J. Rogers . . . 4.00 Robert F. Rogers . . . 10.00 
Reekville Ceafer 

Edward A. Fallon . . . 25.00 Warren F. Kane . . . 3.00 Robert J. Logan . . . 5.00 
itotlya Helgkfs 

William G. Hearn . . 10.00 
 5.00 

 18.75  25.00  25.00  10.00  IS.Op  5.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  50.00  1.00  100.00  5.00  10.00  25.00  10.00  5.00  2.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  20.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  10.00  15,00  5.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  4.00 
 10.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  250.00  5.00  100.00 
 3.00 
 5.00  10.00  10.00 
light Face Type—Alumni; le U Face Type—Other Friends. 
JANUARY 1 TO JUNE 30, 1948 
33 

Glenn 1. Dubs. . . . 10.00 B. A. Schloemer. .. . 15.00 Norbert P. Herbert. 5.00 Fred A. Voglewede . . 10.00 Bernard J. Koffler. . 5.00 John L Wiggins .. . 5.00 
25.00 

Chas. A. Kolp, Jr. . Theo. J. Wrokloge . . 25.00 
William A. Lieser . . 15.00 C. P. Moriorty ... . 5.00 Edw. A. Mahoney, Jr. 25.00 Clevelcad 
Robert L Malone . 5.00 A.F.Anzlovar 10.00 Robert S. O'Brien. 20.00  . . . 
John J. BeyeHe 3.00 Kenneth C. Bezoury 
Fronk J. Schiracit . 10.00 5.00 
Robt. E Shanohon 5.00 August F. Bossu, Jr.. 5.00 Louis L Singer . . 5.00 Roger P. Brennan . . 20.00 Edward P. Streb . 5.00 5.00 
William J. Brennan . Wm . F. Ungashlcic 10.00 Cyril J. Caldwell . . 15.00 John P. Waltz . . . 
10.00 James L Callahan . 10.00 Robert J. Weigond 2.00 Paul W. Carroll
 . . . 5.00 

Maurice F. Zink . . 2.00 10.00 
F. D. Celebrezze . . 
John F. Colongelo . 15.00 
Cellaa 

Frank X. Cull 25.00 
Walter R. Bernard . . 5.00 

JamesA. Dubbs . . . 100.00 
Urban A. Hinders . . 2.00 Daniel W. Duffy. . . 25.00 
R.Jahn Miller 10.00 Francis J. Gannon . . 25.00 
James W . Myers . . . 25.00 William H. Griffy . . 5.00 
Cfeillieofb* 

Paul W. Hackmon . . 10.00 John H. Nolan .... 5.00 
Paul D. Holahan . . . 5,00 
N. A. Seidensticker . . 5.00 

Thomas E. Horak . . , 15,00 Ciaciaaofl George G. Kerver . . 15,00 Francis E. Kiener . . . 5,00 
Notre Dome Club . . 2000.00 

William A. Krider. . . 5.00 
Richard H. A'Hearn . 5.00 

John F. LaBonte . . . 5.00 
DR. E. G DEMOTS Andrew P. Barton . . . 200.00 
Mino (N. D.) CityChoirman Nathaniel Bond . . . 5.00 Anthony E. Lovelle . . 200.00 
James A. Bosco . . . . 10.00 Robert J. Mozonec . . 5.00 
B. N. Brockmon, Jr. . . 20.00 Arthur B. McBride . . 10.00 
Cornelius A. Rauh . 25.00 
NORTH DAKOTA  . . 5.00 
J. B. Brodberger, Jr. 25.00 Edward J . McBride Devils Lake 3.00 F. J. McCarthy, Jr. . . 10.00 
Theo. C. Schoetzle . 1.00 
James E. Burke . . . John C. Cowley . . . . 5.00 Robert C. Burke . . 100.00 Francis K. McCorty . 5.00 
Glenn L Smith . . . 10.00 Frank E. Steel ... . 10.00 Fargo Michael D. Stoley. . 15.00 
Wm. J. Cossody, Jr. 100.00 Hiram G. McCorty. . 25.00 
Wm. H. McCullough . 35.00 
Albert D. Castellini. 25.00 

3.00 John C. McLaughlin . 5.00 
Edward A. Simonson . 10.00 

Wm. A. Castellini . 5.00 Grand Forks Robert C. Chenol . . 5.00 Creighton E. Miller . . 10,00 Rolph J. Vinciguerro 10.00 
Stephen J. Wozniok 25.00 James L Lamb . . . . 5.00 Rev. M. L Moriorty . 37.50 
James R. Clark, Jr.. . 20.00 

Corl E. Zwisler, Jr. . 5.00 
Joseph H. Morris . . . 25.00 
Hebron John C. Cottlnghom 10.00 
>tllianee 

P. J. Mulligan, Jr. . . 35.00 
John E. Cronin , . . . 1.00 Geo, A. Whittinghonr 3.00 
Francis P. Wyrens . . 5.00 

Vincent B. Murphy . . 10.03 
10.00 
Jamesfown 

Frederic S. Moegele . 10.00 Chorles R. LeFevre .  10.00 
>lsA(and John M. Crowley . . 5.00 
. Robert J. Pavlin . . . 5.00 
Thomas F. Crumley . 15.00 Richard E. Prosche . . 5.00 
Richord P. Elliott . . 2.00 
Mandon Dr., Mrs. L G. Sheets 10.00 Howard F. Doll . . . 15.00 John J. Raleigh ... . 50.00 
Ernest R. Fleck . . . . 1.00 Jomes J. Gallagher 10.00 A$hfabula William 5. Reaume . . 5.00 
Robert J. Gouer . . . 5.00 Horry J. Gilligan . . 10.00 Paul B. Godollei . . 5.00 
John P. Mahoney, Jr. 5.00 Chester F. Rice ... . 25.00 
Minof 

Chos. ERohr,Jr.. . . 200.00 John D. Coughlin . . . 10.00 
•arberfon Jerome H. Gohman 5.00 
Wm. R. Ryan, Jr. . . . 2.00 George A. McGee . 20.00 
Ralph L Bernard . . 10.00 Wm. H. Grofe, Jr. . 25.00 
Robt. A. Schirmer . . 1.00 
R. W. Gudmens . . . 5.00 

Monto L Holzworth 10.00 
Wm. B. Sherman . . . 2.00 

Thomas J. Schriner 5,00 
Thomas E. Honifin . 5.00 . , Moff Thomos H. Weigond 5.00 Harry J. Hater, Jr.. 2.00 Joseph D. Singer . . . 5.00 
Albert P. McGuire . 5.00 
Robert V. Trousdale . 10.00 W. J. Heekin, Jr.. . 5.00 F. J. Slockford ... . 25.00 
Seacftwood Villi ige 
Joseph F.Smith. . . . 10.00 
JohnH. Heilker. . . 15.00 

Williom C. Keyes. . 40.00 Jos. E. Sotok, Jr . . . 5.00 OHIO Bellaire Jerome H. Hugger . 5.00 John J. Sporor ... . 10.00 >lkron William F. Talbot. . . 12.50 
Robt. J. Hellmann . 3.00 

John J. Kelly .... 1.00 Edw. J. Tomcik, Jr. . . 5.00 
10.00 

Paul A. Bertsch . . . . 15.00 Robert J. Leonard . 25.00 Albert E. Brunner . . . 1.00 John H. Lynch . . . 10.00 
Edmund A. Sorgus . 10.00 
Frank J. Woldeck, Jr.. 5.00 
BellefoBfaine 
Rev. O. S. Winchester 10.00 
Hugh M. Colopy . . 5.00 25.00 
1.00 Maurice J. Bemet . . 25.00 Thomos E. O'Connor 25.00 
John A. Dettling, Jr. 25.00 Richard E. Malay . . 5.00 
P. Dunne 200.00 
John M. Doron, Jr. . 10.00 John M. Manley . . 10.00 
Potrick C. Doron . . 25.00 Bellevue Jos. R. McCafferty . 5.00 Clcveload HeigMs Arthur R. Dutt . . . 10.00 John B. Phipps . . . 5.00 Chorles K. McGill . 10.00 Thomas F. Byrne . . . 25.00 Bruce E. Hill 5.00 Chorles E. Ruffing . 100.00 John E. McSweeney -10.00 John F. Coleman . . . 6.00 
E. A. Hinderscheid . 7.50 Edw. W. Mersman, Jr 5.00 John J. Collins, Jr. . . 25.00 
Bezley 

Claude H. Horning 15.00 Joseph S. Morrissey 100.00 L L Evert, Jr 5.00 Daniel F. Cannon . . . 15.00 
Arthur C. Keeney . . 5.00 100.00 Richard J. Hockman . 10.00 Joseph H. Kroker . . 25.00 Canfon . Walter J. Nienaber 10.00 Robert H. Hackman . 10.00 James G. Kromer. . 50.00 Paul 8. Belden, Jr. . . 25.00 Charles J, O'Leory . 5.00 A. J. Hammer, Jr. . . 15.00 
5.00 Richard F. Belden . . 50.00 Joe C. Peurrung . . 25.00 John A. Kiener ... . 10.00 Thomas S. Markey . 25.00 Williom H. Belden . . 50.00 Andrew J. Rohan . . 10.00 Wm. F. Langley . . . 3.00 Philip F. Myers . . . 15.00 Wm. F. Brouchler . . . 20.00 Howard A. Rohan . 50.00 Charles G. Leibin .. . 10.00 Howard M. O'Prey. 10.00 Jomes A. Conley . . . 25.00 1.00 Clayton G. Leroux . . 5.00 Murray Powers . . . 10.00 Donald B. Correll. . . 1.00 Richord W. Scallon 25.00 Edward J. McOsker . 25.00 
Wm. C. Mulligon . . . Pierce J. O'Connor. . 
Clyde 
James N. Cullen . . . John J. Gedert . .. . 
Coldwafcr 
T. V. Oppenheim . . . William J. Otte .. . . Robert M. Schulz. . . 
ColaaibBS 
John A. Abernathy . . John J. Cannon . . . . Edw. G. Contwell . . . John J. Canty .... 
O. W. Crepeou .... Samuel L. Devine ... . John R. Eckenrode . . Thomos J. Elder . . . John C. Fontona . . . John W. Gordon, Jr. . Leo E. Hall Donald R. Haverick . Robt. T. Hooffstetter. Henry G. Hughes . . James J. Hughes . . . Thomas M. Hughes . . Vincent P. Hughes . . Frank M. Jaeger, Jr.. John W. Jaeger . . . Corl J. Kegelmoyer . Leo J. Kletzly Joseph E. Kumler . . Edward J. Lynch . . . 
H. T. MocDonold . . , Edw. A. Moriorty . . . Robert T. Murnane . . John R. Murphy .... Louis C. Murphy, Jr. . Joseph G. Rotondo . . Joseph E. Ryan .... Thomas J. Sheehon . . Jos. W. Shicknessy . . Arthur N. Ulrich . . . Ho! Haythome .... Donald L White . . . 
Coaaeaat 
Raymond W. Roach . 
Cetfcoefoa 
Robert C. Weaver . . 
Cresfliae 
Jerome A. Coleman . Herbert J. Frye . . . . Leo J. Sconlon .... 
Cayakoga Falls 
John B. Borr Gerald H.Klein . . . 
Edgar J. Raub .... Joseph J. Scolise . . . 
Ooyfoa 
Andrew A. Amon, Jr. Richard R. Baker . . . 
E. Walter Bauman . . 
F. C. Blasius, Jr Chas. F. Claphom . . 
A. K. Clay James K. Collins . . . EoH R. Englert .... Thos. C. Ferneding . . Leo B. Fettig Samuel J. Gibbons , , Louis H. Hansman . . Edward W. Hoyne . . 
J. Farrell Johnston . . 
 5.00  10.00 
 10.00  1.00 
 5.00  10.00  10.00 
 5.00  15.00  100.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  50.00  10.00  10.00  15.00  15.00  2.00  140.00  60.00  1,00  10.00  15.00  10.00  10.00  12.50  5.00  5,00  10.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  200.00  2.00  25.00  '5.00 
 10.00 
 10.00 
 25.00  15.00  10.00 
 10.00  10.00  15.00  3.00 
 25.00  10.00  50.00  10.00  2.00  15.00  5.00  5.00  5.00 
 20.00  10,00 
 5.00  42.00  10.00 

Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATION ( 34 • 
Melvin E. Lambrecht. 2.00 
Lokowood Miaaifsbarg 
Eugene A. Mayl . . . . 25.00 
Hugh E. Ball 10.00 John I. DiMotteo . . . 10.00 Joseph B. Murphy . . . 200.00 
J. Patrick Canny . . . 25.00 Rex E. Weaver . . . ., 5.00 John F. D. O'Brien . ,. 10.00 
John T. Doyle 10.00 Franklin R. Pachin . ,. 25.00 
Middfefewa 

George W. Gordon . 5.00 Richard B. Pohl . . . , 5.00 
Claude A. Sorg . . . . " 25.00 

Sylvester L. Haas. . . 5.00 Robert F. Roney . . . 1.00 
Joseph E. Honrotty . . 10.00 Miaeral City Karl W. Scherer . . . 10.00 
Joseph V. Heimonn . . 25.00 Korl V. Hoover ... . 5.00 
W. E. Shea 25.00 
Hugo J. Hildebrandt. 25.00 Edw. C. Steiner, Jr.. ,. 5.00 Miago Jnaeflea 
John J. Kone, Jr. . . . 15.00 William L Struct . . . 5.00 Jasper F. Cava ... . 5.00 
George R. Kinney . . 5.00 Chorles H. Thies . . 5.00 
Robert C. Kohl .... 5.00 
Miasfer 

James L Tront . . . ,. 20.00 
E. F. McClarnon . . . 5.00 
Richard P. Frierott . . 5.00 

Hugh E. Wall, Jr. . ,. 25.00 
F. Jerome McKeever. 20.00 Mrs. Charles Deger. . 5.00 Newark 
Howard M. Miller . . 10.00 Girord E. Besanceney 5.00 
Dennis J. O'Neill Jr. . 1.00 Jerome G. Reidy . , . 25.00 Chester D. Cullison . . 10.00 
Oelptes 

Jomes O. Long . . . ,. 10.00 
Charles F. Russ, Jr.. . Chas. A. McGonagle 20.00 
1.00 

Bast C/evelaad P. J. Sandmoier, Jr. . 10.00 
New Cariisle 

John C. Dease ... . 10.00 Lowrence J. Stitt . . . 5.00 
William A. Alden . . . 2.00 Thos. S . Fry, Jr 1.00 James E. Uprichord 5.00 
John F. Moriarty . . . 10.00 Allen E. Young ... . 5.00 New Ptiladelpftia 
F. G. Fitzpatrick . . . 2.00 
Eatt Liverpool toneasfer 

Albert J. Michels, Jr.. 10.00 Harry F. Kilburger . . 50.00 Niles Leonard A. Blum . . . 25.00 
Blyrla Leefoalo 
Norwafk 

Harold J. Borres . . . 20.00 Vincent F. Lovelle . . 10.00 
John W. Boltes . . . 25.00 
Euclid Ufflo 
Clifford F. Brown . . 10.00 
JOHN H. HEILKER Louis F. Buckley ... . 15.00 Ernest A. Coskey . . . 2.00 

Thomas M. Brown . . 25.00 Cincinnati City Chairman Francis M. Payne, Jr.. 15.00 Robert J. Kuhn ... . 50.00 
Robert J. Dempsey . 5.00 A Edw. H. Schroeter . . John F. McCormick 3.00 
10.00  . . 
Neill W. Ebert . . . 25.00 

Geo. W. Shonahon . . 25.00 Skaker Heigkfs John F. Connolly . . . 300.00 
Find/ay Owen J . Nicholson . 25.00 John T. Francies . . . 10.00 
10.00 Robert P. Alge .... London 
5.00 Norwood John F. Gleoson . . . 10.00 Thomas F. Crosby. . . 25.00 Charles P. Terry.... 5.00 Wilfred T. Dwyer . . . 25.00 
August L Bondi. . . 10.00 William M. Hannon . 90.00 5.00 Robt. D. Londergon . 5.00 
Fesforia Paul V. Folchi ... . 2.00 Lawrence J . Kerwin . . 10.00 Francis L Foss . . . . 3.00 James D. Kinn .... 5.00 Lorain Thomas S. Miller . . . 4.00 Francis P. Gilhooley . 5.00 
Oak Harbor 

Urban H. Gradel 10.00 FroakHn James L Teagorden . 10.00 
John P. Chapla ... . 100.00 John L Venables . . . 10.00  . . . 
Albert C. Heckler . . 5.00 

F. G. Ferguson ... . 10.00 
Skelfcy 
John A. Bond 10.00 Orrvilfe M. 1. Henahan . . . . 5.00 
Rev. T. J. Hanifin . . . 10.00 
Francis S. Coleman . . 5.00 
James F. Hoffman . . 5.00 

Fremont Roberts. Howley . . . 15.00 Joseph F. Yonto . . . 2.00 
Paul V. Coleman . . . 5.00 
10.00 

Horry P. Gottron, Jr.. 10.00 George T. Mobile . . . 5.00 
Paiaesville 
Francis M. Joyce . . . 5.00 

Wm. H. Stierwalt. . . 1.00 James D. Reogon . . . 200.00 Sidaey 
R. L. Trousdale ... . 20.00 
Bernard G. Kesting . . 5.00 

Edward P. Reidy . . . 5.00 John B. Aselage . . . 10.00 Greemvllle M. R. Kopi Jr. .. . . 10.00 
James A. McKee . . . 10.00 Perrysbarg Joseph D. Manix . . . 10.00 SIfvcrfea Edwin J. Lynch ... . 25.00 
Harold H. Munger . . 50.00 Raymond H. Manix . . 5.00 LowelMlle Ernest E. Zimmer . . . 10.00 James J . Malone . . . 10.00 
Thomas F. Meehon . . 5.00 fiqaa Donald J. Martin . • 15.00 
Grove City Soaf b Eaelid 
Edward G. Benkert . . 10.00 Francis H. May, Jr.. . 10.00 
Madison 

Cornelius J. Conley . . 10.00 James R. Begley . . . 10.00 
C. Arnold Thomo . . . 15.00 S. J. McGiveran . . . 100.00 
Martin L. Ingwersen . 10.00 Gerald B. Linn ... . 5.00 
Haml»a» R. A. Mead, Jr.... . 5.00 
Port aimfom William E Pellett . . . 100.00 
Mansfield F. E Miller, Jr. ... . 10.00 
Charles A. Baum . . . 5.00 
Thoddeus D. Cassidy . 2.00 

John J. Clark 5.00 Spriagfefd John J. Mullen ... . 10.00 
Thomas J. Bov .... 50.00 
Francis A. Mekus . . . 10.00 Andrew W. Cherney . 5.00 
James F. Eholt, Jr. . . 1.00 Charles R. Bohn . . . 15.00 Kenn F. Nyhan ... . 25.00 
Robert F. Hauser . . . 5.00 

• Donald S. Cisle, Jr.. . 10.00 Peter F. Moritz ... . 25.00 George F. Kavanaugh 10.00 F. A. Pietrykowski . . . 10.00 
Morcellus A. Fiehrer . 10.00 John C. O'Donnell . . 25.00 forfsaiOBffc Michael J. Scanlon . . 10.00 Cosimir S. Rejent. . . 5.00 25.00 
John A. Parker ... . 2.00 A. Benjamin Saeli. . . 
W. Boyce Fischer . . . 10.00 Daniel J. Hushek . . . 10.00 
Sfenbeaville 
James J. Sattler . . . 10.00 

Thos. W. Jockson . . . 5.00 Jos. F. Timmerman . . 10.00 
UarleHa 

Sylvester J. Dougherty 18.75 Norbert M. Schorf . . 5.00 
Frederick L Meyers . 5.00 Jerome M. Wiggins . 25.00 
Richard J. Brown . . . 10.00 
Thomas J. Larkir 7.00 John G. Schmitz . . . 5.00 
Clem Pater, Jr 25.00 
August T. Sieron . . . 20.00 Kaveaaa . 
James M. Schoen . . . 5.00 

Jerome A. Ryan . . . 5.00 Sfrafkers Raymond G. Allen . . 5.00 Jos. F. Schweickert . . 5.00 
George C. Sanders . . 5.00 Marion Anthony F. Dean . . 10.00 
Wm. F. Shea, Jr. . . . 10.00 

Horry F. Walsh ... . 10.00 Theo. P. Frericks . . . 5.00 Rocky River THia W. D. Shellenborger . 5.00 
Walton J. Wuebbold . 25.00 Robert D. Luke ... . 5.00 
Jas. P. Colleron, Jr.. . 10.00 

James C. Leahy . . 5.00 James P. Simon ... . 5.00 
Thomos Bateman . . . 10.00 
Francis R. Dittoe . . . 7.50 

klartlK's Ferry 5.00 
Paul J. Leahy, Jr.. . 5.00 Faustin J . Solon, Jr. . 
Gilbert J. Grevey. . . 10.00 John D. Igoe 20.00 Louis F.Eick 18.50 D. B. McCarton . . . 10.00 H. P. Streicher, Jr. . . 5.00 
Eugene A. Milliff . . . 10.00 
Habbard 

Paul A. Theis .... 3.00 Richard F. Sullivan . . 10.00 
UassUlam Wm. J. VanRooy . . . 50.00 
James J. Boyle ... . 10.00 Fred J. Wagner. . . 50.00 Karl M. Syring ... . 5.00 
Robert W. Snee ... . 2.00 
St. Mary's 
Jos. L Tillman, Jr. .,. 100.00 

Huroa Robert C. Streb . . . 5.00 Toledo 
John F. Koch 20.00 
Robt. T. Timmerman . 5.00 

William J. Fisher . . . 10.00 William D. Waltz .. . 5.00 Paul C. Aderman . . 1.00 
Stanley T. Urbanski. . 5.00 

Saadasky George N. Bates . . 10.00 
freafea Maaaiee 
Robert B. Welly.... 10.00 

Richard C. Hohler . 10.00 William L Beckham 10.00 
; William H. Jefferys . 10.00 Robert Geo. Smith . . 2.00 
Joseph L Wetli.... 10.00 

John J. Millott . . . 18.50 Wm. P. Clarke, Jr. . 10.00 
Jaaefiea City Meafor Charles M. Mouch . 50.00 Chris W. Cochrane. 10.00 Robt. F. Weybume . . 5.00 John O'Brien Wright. 5.00 
Robert M. Strode . . . 5.00 Ernest O. Miller . . . 5.00 John E. Savord . . . 2.00 John C. Cochrane . 25.00 
Light Face Type—Alumni: Bold Face Type—Other Friends. 
JANUARY I TO JUNE 30, 1948 
35 

P«rry AmhrUgo OaapUa 
Paul G. Kehres . . 25.00 Stanley C. Adamonis. 10.00 Joseph W. Larkin . . 2.00 
Poaea CHf Ardmore Oraiaf NHI 
Egon C. von Merveldt 5.00 Conal J. Byrne ... . 2.00 Daniel H. Young . . . 25.00 
Talta >lveea Daaaiere 
John A. Charon . . . 1.00 James F. O'Brien . . . 10.00 Thos. J. Harrington 10.00 John H. Conway . . . 5.00 
lala-Cyawyrf Ebaasbarg 
Wm. P. DeCoursey . . 20.00 

Richard T. Roney . . . 10.00 Donald A. Schettig . , 20.00 
Gerard K; Donovan -5.00 Lowrence W . Englert. 10.00 Itffa Varaoa EMrad Ralph E Hruska . . . 25.00 Chas. R. Montgomery 25.00 F. R. Gabriel, Jr. . . , 50.00 John G. Madden . . . 10.00 
BotUekem Blkias Park 
John F. Moran ... . 50.00 Bernard D. Broeker. .. 15.00 James F. Masterson . 5.00 
Joseph A. Moran . . . 10.00 Leo R. Mclntyre . . ., 55.00 
Wolter B. Moran . . . 25.00 EHweedCIfy 
William Walsh, Jr. . . 3.00 
Wm. J. O'Connor . . 1.00 
David R. Cartwright . 5.00 

J. Robert Judd . . . . 25.00 
Joseph A. Padon, Jr.. 5.00 
Paul J. Cartwright . . 1.00 

Merritl F. Judd . . . . 5.00 
Poul A. Rahe . . . . . 5.00 Daniel L McCarthy . 5.00 Eaiaiaas 
Carl J. Senger ... . 15.00 John M. Mclntyre . . 5.00 10.00 
John B. Show 5.00 Harold Mayberry. . . Wm. V. Mclntyre . . . 5.00 
William J. Sherry . . . 25.00 
Eaiperiaai 

M. & M. Market . . . 5.00 
Robert M. Siegfried . 10.00 

Roland J. Martel . . . 4.00 Paul K. Sticelber . . . 25.00 
Philip F. Phillippi . . . 5.00 
Joseph Ricopito . . . 2.00 
Robert J. Sullivon , . . 10.00 Erie 
Stephen Soltis 5.00 
Loyd F. Worley ... . 10.00 Joseph C. Barber. . . 10.00 Henry D. McGorvey . 100.00 Bradford Robert A. Borber . . . 10.00 Edward T. Conley. . . 5.00 Thomas W. Barber . . 25.00 
THOMAS C. KASPER 

James F. McVay . . . 10.00 Leo J. Brugger ... . 5.00 Aberdeen (S. D.) City Chairman OREGON William P. McVoy . . 10.00 Leo H. Carney ... . 10.00 
Astoria Richard D. Daley . . . 18.50 
Irldgtporf 
James B. Dwyer, Jr.. . 5.00 

Troy Richard D. Murray . , 10.00 James L Hope ... . 200.00 
Leonard-H. Tose . . . 500.00 
William F. Grant . . . 5.00­

Marion R. Burkholder . 9.00 Richard A. Riley . . . 10.00 
lead Bridgovlllo Oliver H. Hunter 111 . 25.00 

Clarence T. Sheehan . 10.00 
Umlvenlty Heights Thos. E Hutchinson . . 15.00 
Louis H. Jaquay . . . 5.00 John R. Kinney ... . 5.00 . 5.00 Walter H. Luedtke . . 10.00 
Robert C. Uhl . . . . 5.00 
Joseph S . Voschalc . , 10.00 Klamatk Falft freeatoH Urbana Thomas J. McCarthy. 5.00 
George A. Welsch . . 1.00 Froncis J. O'Connor . 5.00 10.00 
Henry J. Cluver. . . . 
Robert W. O'Brien . ,. 5.00 Michoel J. Wendell . Raymond C. McEnery 15.00 
2.00 5.00 Pcarflafea Joseph Mahoney Earl T. O'Connor . . . 10.00 
 . . . 

Warren Ivan R. Wolf 10.00 John F. Kilkenny . . . 25.00 Bailer Edward L Recker . . . 
Joseph F. Dray, Jr. . .. 10.00 5.00 
ZoacsWHe Charles E Dillon . . . 10.00 John R. Rosher ... . ' 7.50 
Paul A. Guarnieri . . 5.00 Parilamd 
Lorenzo L Brennel . 10.00 John C. Dillon, Jr. . . 5.00 Harold H. Schultz . . 5.00 
Joseph J. Hiegel . . ., 10.00 F. L Cunningham , , . 5.00 
Thomas P. Finan . . 1.00 Daniel J. Dillon ... . 2.00 Maurice O. Smith . . 5.00 
Albert Von Huffel . ., 210.00 Chas.J. Hirschbuhl. . 100.00 
James W. Plummer . 5.00 John Murrin, IV .. . . 5.00 Charles J. Wittmann . 20.00 
H. E. Van Huffel . . . 200.00 Arthur C. Hoene . . . 3.00 
10.00 Edgar Van Huffel. . . 200.00 F. A. Kiernan, Jr.. . . 25.00 5.00 Foirvlaw 
William Z. Murrin . . . 
Robert J. Portman . . 
Howard Van Huffel. .. 200.00 OKLAHOMA Kenneth W . Kirby . . 10.00 3.00 
James H. Essick.... 

Wm. J. Rockenstein . . 10.00 
Itodore Van HufFel. . 200.00 frlsfow L Bernard MocNab . 10.00 
Philip A. Walsh ... . 10.00 
Forrall 
N. G. McDougall, Jr. 10.00 

WasUagtoB Court House Edgar B. Maggi.... 5.00 
John M. Wolf ... . 5.00 
Steven T. Valetich . . 5.00 John M. Hogerty . . . 10.00 
Harold P. Pear .... 1.00 

Driimrighf Caaip HiH 
Oscar C. Quoidbach . 3.00 Foyatta City
A. B. McDonold . . . 10.00 
Forris P. SofFo 25.00 33.00 
William C. Schmitt. . 7'40.00 Joseph R. Farrell . . . 
James C. Devlin . . . 10.00 
Westlake 
Ivan C. Sharp 15.00 

Elk CHy Caaeasbarg 
GleaoMaa 

A. J. O'Brien 25.00 
Thos. R. Shellworth . . 5.00 

Edw. J. Story .'... . 5.00 Stanley A. Severyn . . 2.00 
Thos. G. Gillespie, Jr. 5.00 
Charles J. Slott.... 10.00 
WiekliWe 

Cftesfar 
Butd 

Franl Amerata .... 5.00 Jas. F. Dougherty, Jr. 1.00 
F. J. McGroder, Jr. . 10.00 GtaasWa 
John Mahoney ... . 50.00 John T. Canon .... 10.00 
Joseph M. McGrath . 25.00 
WiHengfcby 

Anthony Milulic . . . 5.00 CforloB 
Headriek John T. Patane .... 10.00 
P. J. Stillisono 10.00 
James Schram ... . 5.00 James M. Hufnagel . 5.00 15.00 
Robert E Thomas . . . 10.00 Carl F. Stoll 
George E. Thomas . . 10.00 
O. J. Uirieh 50.00 

CeoMal* 
Uadsay Graaipioa 
Wsosfer Warren Ulrich ... . 50.00 
Thomas J. Malloy. . . 2.00 
10.00 

Lucien J. Kempf . . . 5.00 Sidney F. Woodbury . 100.00 Pearl L Moore ... . 
H. Louis Stettler, Jr. . 50.00 
Celaaibfa 
MarsAoH firaeasbarg
Youagstowa West Uaa 
Geo. T. Horn, Jr.. . . 10.00 
5.00 

John J. O'Neill ... . 5.00 Doniel J. Corr ... . 
Notre Dame Club . . 34.00 George A. Charters . 5.00 
Robert J. Horn ... . 2.00 Anthony M. Bernard . 10.00 Hiebols Hills GraaavHIa Ceroepells 
John J. Buckley ... . 5.00 Jos. F. Bowdren, Jr.. . 10.00 William R. Howes . . 5.00 
PENNSYLVANIA Joseph P. Fisher . . . 5.00 
Louis C. Colleron . . . 10.00 
Okarehe Hoaever 
Chas. B. Creighton . . 2.00 Allottowm Ceadanperf 
J. Poul Loosen ... . 50.00 Thomas F. Carfogno . 25.00 
Charles B. Cushwa . . 250.00 Leonard D. Bodkin . . 2.50 Robert J. Flint ... . 10.00 
Harrisbarg 

William A, Dunlevy . . 30.00 Okfoftoma City Bryan W. Laros .... 5.00 
James A. White . . . 5.00 
Francis C. Barbush . . 

Donald A. Groneto . 2.00 J. H. Askew 5.00 Steve Sefick 2.00 5.00 
Caddy 
Edw. R. Eckenrode . . 

John R. Hagan ... . 25.00 James E. Burke ... . 10.00 10.00 
Alllsom Park Ivo D. Fatigata ... . 5.00 
F. De Sales Gillis . . . Eugene J. Coyne . . . 5.00 Cyawyd Francis J. Hopkins . . 5.00 James M. Dolan . . . 5.00 2.00 
George H. Kelley . . . 10.00 Robert E. Moron . . . 10.00 William A. Gorman . 5.00 
John H. Neeson, Jr. . 10.00 Richard G. Miller , . 5.00 Most Rev. E. J. Francis R. Deleo . . . 2.00 Darby Vincent L. Kedel . . . 5.00 John F. Moran ... . 15.00 McGuinness ... . 100.00 George R. Martin . . 30.00 John R. Firth 3.00 J. Clifford Letcher . . 10.00 
F. A. Mostriono . . . 25.00 William P. Moran . . 5.00 4lfeeaa Robert M. Johnston . 25.00 
Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATION 
36 

Walter J. Lutz .... Edw. C. Smith, Jr. . . Edw. C. Smith, Sr. . . Mr., Mrs. Charles 
Haverfowa 

Charles A. Conley . . John F. Shaffer ... . 
Hoxeffoa 

Hugh L.Campbell, Jr. 
HolHdaysburg 

J. Front Holahon ; . . 
Homestead 

Ignatius J. Ducato . . 
Honesdafe 

Louis J. Demer .... Phillip M. Keen ... . 
Housfeii 

H. Carl Linic 
HulmeviKe 

Robert Corrigan . . . 
JentinfowR 

Raymond J. Sobatzki. 
Jersey Shore 

William R. Downs . . . Robert P. McSowan . Williom A. McSowan 
JoftnsfowB 

Eugene L. Cavanaugh William A. Correll . . Wm. F. Friedhoff . . . John P. Grogan . . . George W. Katter . . Fronlc J. Plott, Jr.. . . Joseph W. Raymond . David S. Solomon . . Geo. D. Solomon, Jr.. Daniel G. Sutolovic . . 
Kane 

Edward T. McDermolt 
Lancaster 

Paul J. Gschwend 11 . Stephen J. Houser . . Paul E. Mattern ... . James L. puinn, Jr. . Henry H. Rehm .... Frank J. Selcinger . . . 
Lairebe 
Leeehbarg 

M. Dominic Fovero . . 
Letfgftfon 

Geo. A. Schwartz, Jr.. 
Lemoyae 

Robt. J. Klaiber, Jr. . 
Lewisbarg 

David L. McDowell . . 
Lewisfown 

William A. O'Connor 
Loci Haves 
Mafcasoy 

Mr., Mrs. Louis Fieri . 
20.00 5.00 5.00 
25.00 
10.00 
5.00 10.00 
25.00 
10.00 
5.00 
20.00 5.00 
6.00 
10.00 
25.00 
25.00 5.00 10.00 
10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 
10.00 
5.00 5.00 1.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 
5.00 
10.00 10.00 
40.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
McKecsporf 

Thomas M. Gorvey.". 5.00 John F. Kovacevich . . 20.00 
McKees Rocks 

P. L. McDermotl . . . 10.00 
Jos. A. LeStrange, Jr. Edward J. Lyons . . . Wm. R. Lyons John P. McAndrews Richard M. McClure . Charles J. McKinney . William A. Meehon . William W. Murphy . James A. Nolen, Jr. . Joseph L. Simons . . . David H. Stroud, III . Paul R. Toland .... 
W. Robert Tuson . . . James A. Webb . . . Edward J. Welch .. . Edward A. Coughlan . James A. Dempsey . . Wm. A. Gourgeon . . Mr., Mrs. Thomas E. 
Lewis Mr, Mrs. Michoel 
J. McKeon Mr. Albion J. Voil . . 
Pittsbargk 
Paul H. Anderson . . 
John M.Appelbe. . .. 
Bernard A. Bannon . . 
John S. Barry 
George H. Blackmore 
J. Robert Brennan . . Vincent P. Brennan . . Earl W. Brieger.... 
D. T. Broderick, Jr. . . James L Buchanan . . 
J. Vincent Burke, Jr. . Raymond J. Burns . . Edward G. Byrnes . . Robert B.. Carver . . . Robt. V. Chamberlain John M. Crimmins . . Charles Deibel ... . Philip M. Donovan . . John R. Edwards . . . Lawrence F. Enright . Allen Francis Felts . . Richard O. Forgette . Robt. V. Fulton, Jr.. . Andrew N. Golone . . 
E. D. Griffin, Jr . . . . John F. Guenther. . . Robert E. Hogan . . . Aaron J. Homm ... Francis A. Hegorty . . John P. Hickey .... Henry R. Humphrey . Hugo A. lacovetli '. . Benedict J. Kaiser . . Geo. H. Kingsley, Jr. Robert J. Kvatsak . . John B. Land Joseph G. Long . . . Bernard J. Lynch .. . Robt. R. MacDonald . 
W. Donald Martin . . Paul J. McArdle . . . John Jos. McGovern . James W. McSowan . John Felix McGrow . . Edw. C. McHugh, Jr. John F. McMohon . . Walter J. Monacelli . John P. Monteverde . Wm. F. O'Brien .... Leo D. O'Donnell . . . Joseph V. O'Rourke . . Lawrence J. CToole . 

THOMAS E. BRANIFF Dallas City Chairman 
 10.00  25.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  5.00  10.00  10.00  25.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  25.00  5.00  10.00  50.00  10.00  5.00 
 25.00 
 25.00  25.00 
 5.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  2.00  5.00  25.00  25.00  25.00  10.00  25.00  10.00  100.00  5.00  5.00  15.00  10.00  2.00  15.00  50.00  5.00  10.00  25.00  10.00  25.00  1.00  10.00  1.00  25.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  250.00  10.00  5.00  10.00  5.00  1.00  10.00  5.00  25.00  10.00  5.00 
 100.00  100.00  61.00  25.00  25.00  5.00  40.00  12.00  20.00 
MeadWHe 
William F. Gorman . . Jos. Edw. Mclntyre . . Rudolph J. Rice ... . Frederic C. Shadley . 
Media 
Richard E. Cordray . . 
Minersville 
James L.- Cullother. . 
UorrhvUle 
George A. Schreiber . 
Uf. Lebanon 
Richard T. Brose . . . Hugh A. Gallagher . 
Nanficoke 
R. M. Znaniecki ... . 
Narberth 
E. Clark Riley 
New Casfle 
Herman W. Green . . Max Edward Ludwig . 
New Cumberland 
John J. McNeill. . . . 
New Kensington 
Bernard W. Conroy . 
Hewtoa Square 

5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 6.00 5.00 5.00 
10.00 10.00 3.00 10.00 5.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 15.00 1.00 
10.00 
5.00 25.00 10.00 
5.00 
5.00 
3.00 
50.00 
10.00 5.00 25.00 
25.00 
5.00 5.00 
10.00 25.00 
20.00 
25.00 2.00 2.00 
5.00 
5.00 5.00 100.00 20.00 
25.00 18.50 

J. W. Patterson, Jr. . John F. Pavlick, Jr.. . Jeffrey V. Powers . . . John B. Reardon . . . Edwin L Resler .... Willis H. Rice John C. Sheedy .... 
Laurence R. Smith . . 
C. J. Spinelli Raymond P. Srsic . . . William N. Steitz . . . 
Samuel E West. . . . Kenneth R. Whipps . . Leo F. Brennan .... James F. Harrigan . . Lawrence B. McCabe 
PiHsfoa 

George C. Rowan . . 
Poftsfo'wa 
Wm. Ellis Mills . . . .. 
PoffsviU* 

Froncis E. Moore . . . Bernard J. Wassell . . 
faozsafawaey 
Joseph J. Wehrle . . . 
- Xcadlag Jos. Francis Daly . . . 
Ferdinand A. Kremp . Robert B. Kremp . . . William A. O'Connell 
lydal 

Henry R. Theis .... 
Sayro 

Leo Charles Nolan . . 
Scfeealoy 

Thomas A. Ferrari . . 
Scraafoa 

Matthew A. Dranchak Louis John Finske . . . Robert E Harrington 
25.00 
5.00 
25.00 
2.00 
3.00 
10.00 
25.00 
5.00 
25.00 
5.00 100.00 150.00 
5.00 
5.00 
12.00 
10.00 
50.00_ 
15.00 
5.00 
3.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
25.00 
25.00 
10.00 
5.00 
10.00 
2.00 50.00 15.00 
Jas. D. Jordan . . . . Thomas F. Leahy . . . Hobart P. Shean, Jr.. Anthony G. Webber . Rev. L. P. Weniger . . 
Sellasgrova 
John N. McDonnell . 
SewIeUay Jas. F. Shaughnessy . 
Sf. Mary's 
William P. Gies ... . 
SfearoB 
Albert J. Evans ... . Joseph L Garvey. . . Edward B. Madden . . 
SkarpsvHfa 
James A. Biggins .. . 
Sftaaaadook 
Louis F. Twardzik . .'. Chas. W. Yakemonis . 
Swartftaora 
Leroy E Peterson . . . Walter F. Rouber. . . 
TaraafaB 
Louis J . Horning .. . 
Ttfatvlffa 
Motthew J. Bajorek . . Gerald J. Dowling . . Charles W. Powers . . 
' Tyraaa Oliver F. Schell ... . 
Ualoafowa 
Edward J. Carroll . . Thomas L Doorley . . Henry A. Rasche . . . Alessio A. Romeo . . . 
Upper Dmikf 
Joseph W. Fullem. . . Clifford E Prodehl . . 
Walter F. Philipp . . . 
Norrlsfewn 
Edw. Jos. Cronin . . . 
OH Clfy Fred A. Connor . . . Thoddeus S. Gobreski Daniel J. Skelly ... . Peter Allen Stubler . . 
Ore/and 
Walter R. Ridley . . . 
Palmerfon 
Joseph P. Nonovic . . 
Paoli 
Harry H. Francis, Jr.. Frederick J. Haarde . 
PeckvHIe 
Aldo Alfred Merollini 
ferryopolls 
Thomas J. Kalman . . 
Phttadelphia 
Thomas A. Blisord . . 
William Bodo 
Joseph F. Cattie . . . Jules J. Cattie ... . Robert E. Burns, Jr.. . William G. Burns . . . Frank W. Connelly . . Arthur Edw. Coughlan Vincent J. Donohue . . Chas. M. Dougherty . John J. Dowling ... . Ambrose F. Dudley . . Francis X. Duggan . . Edwin W. Keleher. . . James F. Kerwin . . . 

115.00 25.00 25.00 
3.00 
5.00 
10.00 
25.00 2.00 
5.00 
20.00 
5.00 5.00 5.00 20.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 8.00 20.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 10.00 100.00 
JANUARY I TO JUNE 30, 1948 Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. 
37 

Forf Htm Merrfsfewa Hebron 
15.00 Chester M. Ashman . 5.00 William A. Grady . . 25.00 
Carl T, Fischer ... . 

Hiiroa Naskville Hoastoa 
55.00 R. L Bevington ... . 5.00 Lucien B. Coppinger . 50.00 
Robert K. Osborn . . . Wm. S. Bevington . . 5.00 Thos. J. Donovan . . . 50.00 
Igloo 

Horry L Claiborne . . 5.00 Paul J. Doyle, Jr. . . . 10.00 
10.00 MiUDigby 10.00 Robert L Grogan . . 10.00 
Lead Raymond B. Keoting . 15.00 Orville Edw. Dunn, Jr. 1.00 
Horry W. Zolper . . . 
Lawrence J. Kelley . . 5.00 

TEXAS 
Albert F. Gushurst . . 

20.00 Julian W. Quinn . . . 50.00 John D. Johnson . . . 2.00 Beaumont 
John C. Rhein 10.00 Clyde E. Broussard 425.00 
Mifekell Robert C. Scoggins . . 25.00 Jos. E. Broussard, Jr. 25.00 
Thos. A. Standish . . . 10.00 Jos. E. Broussard, II 25.00 Leo J . Rozum 25.00 
John M. Potton ... . 25.00 

Martin E. Walter . . . 50.00 John T. Donnelly . . 10.00 
James A. Young . . . 10.00 Rapid CIfy Serold P. Doyle . . 25.00 
John C. Bennett . . . 25.00 Francis E. Schlueter 25.00 Irving John O. Schuize ... . 15.00 
Sioaz Falls Borger John E. Burke 1.00 Clifford H. Mihm . . 1.00 Kilgore Robert R. Donohoe. . 5.00 Henry L. Shipp, Jr. . . 5.00 
•rownsville 
B. Scott Reordon, Jr. 10.00 

R. S. Tolson 5.00 Lubbock 
Thomas M. Reordon . 100.00 
Malcolm B. Froser . . 10.00 

Coaistoek 
SpeoHisk 

C. R. Gallagher, Jr. . 5.00 Msgr. Wenzel A. 
John H. Kelly ... . 30.00 
Midland

Sobolewsiti 25.00 Coaroe Thos. F. Green, Jr. . . 25.00 
Jos. 1. O'Neill, Jr. . . 10.00 

Strool Port Arthur 
Rev. B. E. Shonley . . 10.00 Dallas GEORGE W. STRAKE 
Victor S. Colletti . . . 25.00 Houston City Chairman 
George W. Becker . 10.00 
DeWitt P. Buell . . . 500.00 Leo J. Honnon ... . 25.00 TENNESSEE David S. McCaffrey . 10.00 
James D. Crow . . . . 5.00 Warren Lata^ttie trhiol J. L Dorrouzet, Jr. . 10.00 
San >lntoalo 

Leonard D. Scolise . . 5.00 Joseph A. Rigney . . . 5.00 J. J. Dougherty, Jr. . 50.00 Felix Doron 111 .. . 10.00 
John A. Bitter, Jr. . . 10.00 Irving T. Fleming . . 250.00 
Washington Middlefown Ckattanooga B. E. Gotto, Jr 5.00 
John G. Fleming . . 250.00 
J. Vincent Soisson . . 10.00 Eugene J. O'Reilly . . 50.00 F. A. Eichorn, Jr. . . . 15.00 Albert G. Phoneuf . . 5.00 
W. L. Fleming, Jr. . 350.00 
Wayne Newport Sinton 
Clarksville . Chas. B. Lohr, Jr.. . 5.00 Alfred F. D'Amoro . . 5.00 Albert J. McAloon . . 5.00 John E. Lewis 2.00 Fronk A. McCullough 5.00 Jos. F. Odem . , 200.00 
Waynesburg Daniel L. Sullivan . . . 5.00 Joseph B. Lewis . . . 5.00 John J. Moron . . . 5.00 
Tyler 

Pawtueket J. Thomas Troughber 25.00 Lewis J. Murphy . . 10.00 
150.00 
John H. Brogon, Jr. . 10.00 

Robert E. Murphy . 5.00 
Leo McAloon 45.00 John N, Poore . . . 10.00 
West Newfon FraakllB John J. Moher .... 5.00 
Vincent G. McAloon . 5.00 
Peter Andriechack . . 15.00 J. M. Flonigen, Jr. . 2.00 Albert E. Saleh ... . 5.00 Cornelius J. Shockett. 5.00 
Arthur T. Simpson . 10.00 West Reading Kaoxville J. W. Stonford, Jr . 5.00 Victoria 
Providence 

William J. Cassidy . . 10.00 Forrest I. Watson . . . 10.00 Jomes P. Swift . . . 40.00 A. M. Respondek . . . 10.00 John J. Curtin . . 2.00 
John G. Speidel . . . 20.00 Samuel A Wing, Jr. 5.00 
Jules Goldstein . . 10.00 kfempkis Waco West View 
Joseph B. Fleming . 250.00 Jos. L McDonold, Jr. 10.00 Louis J. Bdrosotti . . . 10.00 5.00 J. F. Simon, Jr 5.00 Regis 1. Lavelle ... . 10.00 
John A. Mclntyre . . 5.00 Philip M. Canole, Jr.. 10.00 
J. M. Haggar .... 3000.00 Wichita Falls Wilkes Barre John S. McKiernan . 50.00 Leo J. Coon 15.00 
100.00 James E. Foley ... . 5.00 John C. Brady ... . 10.00 Jomes J. Sullivan . . 1.00 T. F. Dohogne 20.00 
Henry Neuhoff . . . 1000.00 Joseph Reilly 5.00 Joseph E. Guion . . . 1.00 William A. Graham 20.00 Edward Duke 5.00 
John S. Sierra . . . 5.00 Vfarrick Neck 
Edword J. Rowan . . . 5.00 Neil Farrell 25.00 Michael R. Yorbenet . 5.00 Thomas J. Foley, Jr. . 50.00 El Paso ' UTAH 
Rev. R. Jos. McVinney 10.00 John E. Fronchere . . 10.00 20.00 Helper 
Williamsport 
Westerly 

John P. Ford, Jr. . . 
Austin K. Hall 100.00 3.00 Anthony R. Demmon . 25.00 
Francis C. Hayes . . . 50.00 

John J. McMohon . . 10.00 
Fronk W . Howland . . 25.00 William E. Ford . . . 5.00 
25.00 
Provo 

Paul J. Kiszeli ... . 10.00 John B. Willmonn . . . 10.00 
Galvin G. Hudson . . 50.00 
Louis F. Moore ... . 10.00 

Leo J. Momsen . . . 100.00 
Morcellus C. Kirchner 5.00 
SOUTH 
Wiadiber 

Chas. R. MacFarlone . 10.00 Rueben F. Momsen . 100.00 Salt Lake City 
CAROLINA 
D. W. Stechschulte . . 10.00 Jos. L O'Brien .V. . 1.00 
D. J. McCormack . . . 5.00 
John W . Gollivan . . 10.00 

R. F. Stechschulte . . . 10.00 Orangebarg M. J. McCormack . . 10.00 Robert E. O'Molley 15.00 
Miles T. Ivers 1.00 Samuel W. Gwinn, Jr. 25.00 Lovin J. McNicholos . 10.00 Richard S. Smith . . 10.00 
York Leo C. Nulty 10.00 
John Howard Clork . Spartanburg H. M. Magevney, Jr.. 15.00 
2.00 Fabeas Philip J. Purcell, Jr.. . 100.00 
Jomes R. Grohom . . 10.00 Jos. G. Crowley, Jr. . 15.00 Wm. D. Mothis, Jr.. . 25.00 
Rudolph M. Lopez . 2.00 Thomas J. Sheehon . . 5.00 
John S. Montedonico 15.00 

Toeopau VERMONT 
Fort Worth 
C. P. J. Mooney, Jr. . 10.00 

Chorles T. Williamsen 1.00 
John L. Joyce 10.00 
Bernard V. Hcberer 10.00 Beaningtoa 
Eugene J, Podesto . . 5.00 

Paul Rush 25.00 Philip R. North . . . 5.00 Francis C. Tomosi. . 5.00 
RHODE ISLAND SOUTH DAKOTA 
Louis A. Sampson . . . 5.00 T. L Phillips 5.00 
Burliagtoa 

Cumberland Hill Aberdeen Arthur C. Sortore . . . 5.00 James Record . . . . 50.00 
R. H. Kempter, Jr. . 2.00 John J. McLoughlin . 500.00 Thomas C. Kosper . . 10.00 
Jos. S. Signaigo ... . 2.00 Miss Kate L Johnson . 100.00 
G. W. McGowon . . 1.00 
John L. Sutton ... . 10.00 

East Greenwich Emery Galvestoa Arthur A. Mitiguy . 25.00 
L K. Thompson, Jr.. . 200.00 Paul D. Hoeffler . . . 10.00 Phillip B. Daily ... . 2.00 Raymond V. Smith . . 10.00 John F. Mitiguy . . . , 25.00 
James R.Welsh. . . . 100.00 Edgewood Flandreau Miss Mary Groom East Georgia 
Warren Paul Roque . 1.00 Victor T. Neol ... . 1.00 McCormack ... . 1000.00 Jomes C. Ledwig . . . 25.00 Paul W . Ryan 20.00 
Light Foce Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FOUNDATION 
38 

tat* Bomos*»m  WASHINGTON  ,  Mergaafowa  
Thomas F. Quinlan . .  15.00  4berdeeB  John M. Welch ... .  lO.OO  
Nerffc  leaalagfoa  Edward P. Smith  . .  3.00  New  klorfiasville  
Wm. E. Dailey, Jr. . .  10.00  •remerfon  Wm . R. Herrick . . . .  10.00  
P  Raadelpfc Ceafer  Eugene W . Bichon  . .  5.00  Paul J . Shiben  ... .  10.00  
Chas. B. Prescott . . . 10.00 Parkersbarg 


Loagview 
John F. Eorley ... . 1.00 .

Haflaad William C. Meagher . 5.00 James C. Thomas . . . 20.00 
Louis W . Esposito . . . 100.00 Monfesaao 
St. Alban

A. Mourice Schafer . 200.00 
Donald G. Leis ... . 3.00 
SeaHle
VIRGINIA 

John F. Boespflug . . . 100.00 St. Mary's 
Alexaadrla 

Leo J. Cummings . . . 5.00 Philip J. Boyer ... . 10.00 
Thomos F. Flynn, Jr. . 5.00 
Rev. Philip H. Duffy . 10.00 
Chas. E. Freeman, Jr. 2.00 SisfervHIe 
John P. English ... . 10.00 
J. Walter Greer . . . 10.00 Jackson Gondour . . 10.00 
Gerald J. Hogan . . . 100.00 
Matthew H. Merlcle . 6.00 
Joseph E. Horrigan . . 20.00 Soafk Ckarlesfea Frank J. Murphy . . . 5.00 
W. Jerome Kane . . . 10.00 
Robt. E. Shoemaker . 5.00 >lrliagfoB Charles S. LaCugna . 5.00 
Walter J. Toussainl. . 25.00 Robl. W. Cavanough 50.00 Emmelt G. Lenihon . . 100.00 
M.C. Patemo. . . . .' 100.03 Patrick J. Conway . . 25.00 Edgor A. Pessemier . 5.00 Paul R. Delay 5.00 Rabbi Albert Plotkin . 5.00 War 
Frank R. Romeo ... . 1.00 

Goylord P. Haas . . . 8.50 William H. Tierney . . 25.00 Raymond J. Zondo . . 10.00 
Jos. F. Hennessy . . . 10.00 J. P. Mocney 10.00 George J. Kelly ... . 5.00 Welrtoa 
Sneqaalmie Falls 

Donald F. McGinley . 25.00 
John P. DeFant ... . 2.00 Wm. R. Murphy, Jr. . -10.00 
William E. O'Neil . . 5.00 
Richard E. Flood . . . 25.00 

Spokane WILLIAM A. GOnSACKER 
H. J. Shedenberg, Jr.. 5.00 Wkecliag Sheboygan (Wis.) City Chairman 
R. W. Shellenberg . . 1.00 Thomas A. E. Lolly . 20.00 Daniel W . Cochran . . 25.00 
Donley J. Stocking . . 5.00 Bernard J . Lenoue . 3.00 John P. O'Neill, Jr. . 3.00 William M. Dusch . . 10.00 Cblppcwa falls August M. Grams . 200.00 
Cktaeateagte 
Wm. Geo. Sompers . 1.00 

James P. Rotchford 1.00 
Robert B. Hackner . 10.00 

William F. Jane ... . 50.00 
Rolph J. Onofrio . . . 10.00 
John Wm. Greene . . 5.00 

Taeomo John F. Olson 10.00 David F. Hyde . . 1 7.50 
William N. Hogan . . 25.00 

Coviagtoa Donald F. Murphy . 10.00 
Joseph A. John . . . 10.00 
Thomas F. Howley . . 10.00 Oafer* 
Francis J. Albert, Jr. . 10.00 Joseph W. Murphy. 10.00 
Jos. H. Monley . . . 10.00 
William H. Mitsch . . 5.00 Edw. Wm. Forkin . . . 25.00 
Richard R. Padesky. 15.00 

A. R. von Boecklin . 25.00 
FQI/S Church 
Thos. E. Schreiber . . . 10.00 

Danner & Janien .. . 10.00 
Robert C. Padesky . 10.00 Anthony J. Mulvoney 10.00 Weaofckee William J. Yoeger . . 10.00 Eaa Qalre 
Stephen L Pavela . 5.00 

F. M. Crollard, Jr. . . 10.00 
Fort lelvoir 5.00 
Donald C. Weibel . . 1.00 
H. A. Crollard ... . 5.00 
William F. Wingen . . 5.00 Karl A. Schaettle . . 10.00 
WISCONSIN 

Foad da Lac Laaeosfar 
Hompfea 

>lpplefoa Louis A. Longe ... . 10.00 
Harold W. Carey . 50.00 

Robt. D. Harrington . 5.00 WEST VIRGINIA John F. Brunke . . . 11.00 Emery W . Martin . . . 10.00 Kenneth F. Merten . . 3.00 •ridgeport F. T. Heinritz ... . 5.00 Roland A. Martin . . . 5.00 Madisoa 
J.J. Maume 100.00 Guys Hoys Bradley . 10.00 Paul H. McKenny . . 5.00 Paul R. Brannan . . 10.00 
Ft. ilfUasoa 
John J . Riedl ... . 25.00 John C. Brennan . . 10.00 
Lyackbarg Charleston Verne W. Huber . . . 5.00 
William R. Venzell . 5.00 Korl T. Brennan . . . 50.00 
Paul M. Morrison . . . 12,50 Lawrence G. Hess . 10.00 
Gustave A- Zuehlke 5.00 Greaa lay Maurice F. Leahy . . 5.00 Thomas A. Morrison . 10.00 Arthur P. Hudson . . 250.00 
John H. Zwicker . . 10.00 Wallace P. Christmon 5.00 Edward A. Mueller . 10.00 
William J. Kenney . 25.00 
MeLeaa 20.00 
Mrs. Elizabeth Brunke 9.75 Levi A. Geniesse .. . 10.00 
Albert H. Kessing . 10.00 Alfred W . Trueox . . . 10.00 Wm . F. Hobermann . 5.00 Maaifawae 
William E. Mangon 5.00 Athens Gene M. LeFave . . . 10.00 Richard M. Gerl . . 10.00 
Newport News William J. Minges . 5.00 James W. Broun . . . 25.00 Harold L. Londo . . . 10.00 Joseph R. Kenny . . 10.00 
John Joseph Corvil. . 2.00 Vincent'J. Reishman 25.00 
•araboo Patrick H. Martin . . . 3.00 Jerome P. Ledvina . 10.00 
C. K. Hutchens, Jr. -. 1000.00 Wm. J. Reishman, Jr 10.00 
Walter E. Terry ... . 10.00 Joseph A. Neufeld . . 25.00 Guido R. Rahr... . 1500.00 
Paul J. Schaub . . . 10.00 Norfolk Frank EBogdo .... 10.00 
Francis J. Sheets . . 5.00 fayfield MoHaotU 
H.J. McKnightJr.. . 10.00 John Brogan 10.00 
Wm. D- Sweoringen 1.00 Francis L. Ryan ... . 2.00 F. R. Langrill 5.00 
Fred Burrall 10.00 
Pkoebus A. J. Foy 5.00 F. J.' Lauerman, Jr.. . 100.00 
leaver Oaai Emmett Evans 15.00 William J . Egan . . . 10.00 
E M. Foy 5.00 H. J. Lauerman , . . 100.00 Reynold A. Deniger , 200.00 Andrew Foeller .... 10.00 
Jos. A. Lauerman . . . 50.00 

Qaoaflce Clarksburg Dominic Olejniciak . . 10.00 
•eloif Philip R. McCanna . 50.00 Harry A. Florence . . 5.00 
Marcus E. Farrell . . 5.00 John B. George ... . 10.00 
Jaacsvilfa L. Thos. Plouff, Jr.. . 5.00 Gfea Perrls
Mckatead Thomas E. Mills ... . 1.00 Kendall M. Corey . . 2.00 MarsMlald 
Walter C. Hagen, Jr. 5.00 5.00 K. L. Oberbruner . . , 5.00 James F. Fitzgerald . 5.00 John H. Stauber . . . 5.00 
Holidays Cov e Daniel W. McCluskey 15.00 
Charles E. Kelly ... . 2.00 
•eatoa Maaaska 
Anthony B. Covolle 10.00 P. J. McCullough . . . 5.00 
Francis R. Kelly ... . 5.00 Fred G. Deutsch . . . 10.00 
Jos. R. Keorns 25.00 Charles M. Morrison . 15.00 Hoafiagfon Keaosfca Wm. H. Fieweger . . 15.00 Irisfol 
Paul B. Nott 15.00 Robt. Carroll Conoty 2.00 John E. Brannon . . . 5.00 Thos. W. Landig . . . 1.00 Francis J. Stumpf. . . 25.00 
William R. Swinn . . . 25.00 

Thomas J. Conoty . 10.00 Jomes C. Stophope . 5.00 Maaeatlaac Ernest J. Williams . . 5.00 K. Jos. He,atherman 10.00 
•arliagfoa 

John H. Hickey . . . . 25.00 Rooaoke Maaalagfoa Chas. B. McConno . . 50.00 John L Greeley . . . 25.00 
LoCross* 
Notre Dome Club . . 50.00 Anselm D. Miller . . . 15.00 Edword J. Politoske . 1.00 Cedarbarg klarrlll 
William F. Dvorak . . 5.00 Salem klcMeckea D. Edward Troy . . . . 10.00 John A. Elliott ... . 25.00 15.00 
Frederick R. Funk . . . 20.00 2.00 
Albert J. Russo, Jr.. 10.00 2.00 Allan Dankow 10.00 
JANUARY I TO JUNE 30, 1948 Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. 
39 

Oeeaeaawcc WnkMka 
CANADA 

J. Jacob Kunz 5.00 Andrew C. Powers . . 25.00 
yoaeoBver, 
Fred C. Miller ... . 200.00 

Wana a •rifisk Colaaibla 
OsUesb Richard A. Stock . . . 5.00 Harold S. Foley . . . . 167.00 Chas.J. Fiss 15.00 Waapaa 
EJmoatoK, Alberfa
Horold J. Schumerth . 3.00 

John C. Burke 5.00 
John G. Chosman . . 1.00 
Pork Falls 

Waawoteso 
James Jos. Leahy . . . 50.00 Qaebee City, Qaebee 
William Brown ... . 200.00 
David G. Warner . . . 1.00 

Pcskfige Paul C. Brust 100.00 Paul A. Dohr 10.00 R. Wm. Dwyer ... . 25.00 Robt. W . Hartman . . 3.00 
PiaiaCcId CANAL ZONE 
Frederick W. Keller. . 5.00 
Richard P. Niemer . . 2.00 •olboa 
Mark A. Pfaller ... . 5.00 Xacia* Wm. Francis Roberts . 2.00 John T. Fogarty ... . 5.00 Robert C. Albert . . 5.00 Robert N. Tharinger . 5.00 
Qaarry Helgkfs 

Millard S. Edmonds . Boniface S. Wanta 5.00 
 5.00  . . B. W. Newmonn . . . 5.00 James M. Hamilton . 
3750.00 

Wesf illHt 
Robt. L Hamilton . . 
3750.00 

Emory L Clark .... 25.00 CHILE 
Robert E Hecht . . 
. 15.00 
John H. Johannes . 

5.00 Wasflaad Soatlago 
Edw. Jas. Kilmurry . 

. 10.00 M. N. Gonring, Jr. . . 5.00 Enrique A. Rosselot. . 5.00 Bernard H. Miller . . 
. 50.00 Edwin Pick 30.00 Francis H. Miller, Jr. 
. 10.00 Robert B. Pick 15.00 Grover F. Miller . . . 50.00 CUBA 
Thomas J. Rolfs.... 25.00 James J. Rice ... . 
5.00 
Habaaa 

MTatf Oa Para 
Anonymous . 10.00 
C. C. Fitzgerald . . . 200.00 

Thomas F. Hearden . . 5.00 
Clarence P. Rueb . . 100.00 FRED C. MILLER 
Kkiaeloadar Wbceasla Dells 
Milwaukee City Chairman JAVA 
5.00 Richard T. Lucke . . . 5.00 
Donold C. O'Melia. . 
fafaWa 
Kiee Lak* 

Mi/woukee Richard C. McMahon 5.00 
Albert C. Cizouskas . 10.00 
Francis R. Porks ... . 5.00 

. ¥fYOMING 
Chas. M. Bransfield . 25.00 Richard Jos. Noll 2.00 Mortin J; Brennon . . 10.00 James P. O'Mearo 10.00 Rickload Ceafar Ckeyeaae 
MEXICO D. F. 

John F. Brush 5.00 Richard J. O'Melia 10.00 Francis N. Rott ... . 1.00 George J. Kossis . . 10.00 Clifford G. Buckley . . 5.00 Charles A. O'Neill 10.00 Thos. G. Kassis .. . 60.00 klexice Cify 0. F. 
Skawoaa 

John D. Cohill .... 10.00 James J. Ott . . , 5.00 James G. Murphy . 25.00 Rene E. Dunand . . . 10.00 
John D. Nober ... . 10.00 

James Ivan Corcoran 1.00 P. Dudley Pearson 5.00 Glen Botchelder . . , 5.00 
A. Geo. Czopiewski. . 10.00 Walter L Piduch . 5.00 SoBfk Mllwaakaa Larry Birleffi 5.00 
NEW­

John F. Deegon, Jr. . 10.00 Edw. J. Redmond . 5.00 Everhort John Schleck 7.50 C. D. Bryant 10.00 Ben V. DeloHunt .. . 1.00 Edw. J. Rogers . . 50.00 Walter Ludwiczok . . 2.50 P. J. Coady 10.00 FOUNDLAND Thomas L Dixon . . . 10.00 Robert F. Schirf . . 5.00 Harold E Ward . . . 2.50 F. EHon Davis . . . . . 5.00 
Horboar Grace 

Robt. E Dudenhoefer 1.00 Eugene J. Schumoker W . E. Dinneen 5.00 
10.00 

Sftvfs Pelat Robert J. Connolly . . 10.00 
John R. Dundon. . . . 10.00 Roland J. Steinle . . W. J. Dineen 20.00 
5.00 
David Krembs 5.00 10.00 

James H. Foltz .... 6.00 R. E Sullivan .... Bill Graves 5.00 
James H. Levi ... . 5.00 

Robert L Fountoin . . 5.00 James H. Wheeler . O. B. Koerfer .... 10.00 PERU 
10.00 
William E Siebert . . • 2.00 

John W. Frye . . . . 5.00 Robert J. Luick . . . Tracy S. McCraken . . 25.00 
25.00 ilraqaipa 
A. P. Goldabini. . . . 10.00 Jack McCabe .... StargeoK Bof Jack McGee 5.00 
20.00 
E L DeRomona . . . 15.00 

Eugene J. Galdobini . 5.00 Eugene H. Bernhardt. 25.00 C. F. Murray 5.00 
Robert A. Uihiein . . 2500.00 John D. Govon ... . 10.00 Saperlor Edward Murray . . . . 20.00 
D. Thos. Gottscholk . . 50.00 Mineral Po!»t W. A. Nomt 10.00 PUERTO RICO 
Neil W. Flinn 10.00 

A. C. Hackenbruch . . 15.00 Harry Schleicher . . . 5.00 
William P. Gorgen . . 10.00 Saa Jaaa 
Tkcrasa 

Edw. Jas. Hackett . . 5.00 Don ToHenhoff . . . . 5.00 
Paul F. McManus . . . 10.00 
Robert O. Baker . . . 100.00 

Francis Thos. Hushek . 2.00 Neeaak Harry Tottenhoff . . . . 5.00 John F. Jaeger ... . 5.00 James E. Asmuth . . . 10.00 Teaiak Kenneth Tottenhoff. . 5.00 
I 

Walter L Keating . . 5.00 Robert F. Bernard . . 5.00 Robert W. Ninneman 1.00 ChaHesH.Welsh. . . 5.00 REPUBLIC OF John Francis Ladky . . 15.00 James J. Kraus ... . 10.00 
Two Rivers klefoMea PANAMA 
Raymond M. Liedtke . 1.00 New Helsf ein Thos. Edw. Niquette . 5.00 Jas. W. Lawler . . . . 10.00 
Philip P. Martin ... . 1.00 James A. Mothews . . 25.00 Edw. P. Longenfeld 18.75 Waterfewa NewcasNa  Ducasa 5.00 
. . Salvador . . . 
Brian C. McLaughlin . 10.00 Robt. M. Langenfeld . 50.00 Floyd W . Shaefer . . . 10.00 William A. Guilfoyle . 2.00 Lawrence Romagoso . 5.00 
( 

Light Face Type—Alumni; Bold Face Type—Other Friends. 
INSCKASrCE POLICIES 
Anonymous $1,000.00 Dr. Raymond J. Berghoff 5,000.00 
SPECIAL KEVHriSN CIPT 
Class of 1923 488.00 
NO GIFT TOO SMALL NO GIFT TOO LARGE 
40 

The Beqoest and Liviig Trist Cmiittee 
The importance of the will-and-bequest program to the Foundation can best be stated by quoting a few paragraphs from the July, 1948, issue of the American Alumni Council News: 
"Publicly announced gifts in eight large cities showed that $232,191,062 was given or left by will by private philanthropists last year, according to a report issued in January by John Price Jones Corjporation of New York. This represents a decline of 15.8 percent from the $275,853,339 in 1946. 
"Gifts by bequests in the cities studied amounted to $37,157,798 in 1947 as compared to $26,408,049 in the previous year. This represents an increase of 40.7 percent. 
"Although a one-year comparison does not establish a trend, neverthe­less, the above figures indicate the importance of bequ^ts to a well organ­ized fund program." 
The brochure on wills, trusts, etc.—entitled The Substance of Things Hoped For, a Guide for Benefactors of The University of Notre Dame—is in the printers' hands at the present time and circulation will begin in the near future. 
The following is a list of the Bequest and Living Trust Committees that have already been formed and are fimctioning: 
BALTIMORE, MD. Chairman: John G. Prendergast 
BELMONT, MASS. Chairman: Joseph P. Sullivan Committee: James R. Skahan 
CLEVELAND, OHIO Chairman: John J. Reidy 
DAVENPORT, lOV/A Chairmxm: George W. Vander Vennett 
HARRISBURG, PA. Chairman: John H. Bream Committee: Frank J. Sekinger 
INDIANAPOLIS, IND. Chairman: Michael B. Reddington 
LOS ANGELES, CALIF. Chairman: Eugene M. Kennedy 
MUSKE60N, MICH. Chairman: Joseph T. Riley 
NEWARK. N. J. Chairman: James E. Fagan 
PITTSBURGH, PA. Committee: James V. Burke 
PROVIDENCE R. I. Chairman: T. Russell McGrath 
RICHMOND, VA. Chairman: Charles M. Morrison 
SEATTLE, WASH. Chairman: James F.Lyons 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 

Chairman: William B. Jones 
Comnattee: Harold V. Boisvert, 
Thomas J. Flynn 
41 

Citj Chairnen and Connnittees 
Note: * Indicates that a Club President is included in more than one Committee. 
ABERDEEN, S. D. Chairmxin: T. C. Kasper Committee: P. A. Bradbury, L. J. Lowe, 
Frank L. Sieh 
AKRON, OHIO Chairmun: William G. Burkhardt 
ALBANY, N. Y. 
Cliairman: John F. Campbell 
Committee: Peter Bucheim, James J. Drisllne, Edward J. Eckert, Andrew M. Pinckney 
ALBUQUERQUE, N. M. 
ClmiTTjuin: Louis C. Lujan Commttlee; Philip H. Dunleavy, Pete Duran, Michael J. McGuinness, Harold 
I. Mulcahy, John D. Murphy, Joseph L. Smith 
ALLENTOWN, PA. Chairman: Leo R. Mclntyre Honorary Chairman: Rt. Rev. Msgr. Leo 
G. Fink 
Committee: Clare B. Burger, Paul P. Fink. Rev. Henry J. Huesman, William McGinley, Joseph J. Mclntyre, Rev. Andrew Slafkosky, Vincent R. Sweene3', James H. Walsh, William J. Walsh, Jr., James D. Ward 
ANDERSON, IND. 
Chairman: Ehno A. Funk Committee: Dr. Charles L. Armington, James F. Carson, James F. Fogarty, Thomas C. Funk, Paul E. Schrenker, Joseph Stine 
ANTHRACITE AREA, PA. Chairman: Hugh L. Campbell, Jr. 
ARLINGTON, MASS. Chairman: Robert E. Donovan Committee: Hugh A. Mallon, Jr., George 
E. Tobin 
ASBURY PARK, N. J. Chairman: Herbert P. McCabe Committee: William B. Bruno, Louis J. 
Carr, Lawrence Carton, Jr. 
ASHEVILLE, N. C. Chairman: Edward J. Koontz 

ASHTABULA, OHIO Chairman: John W. Zabach 
ATLANTA, GA. Chairman: AKred R. Abrams Committee: Lawrence D. Benedict, Gil­
bert J. Kirwan, Clement L. McGowan, 
Jr., William Schroder, Jr., Joseph Zoss 

AUBURN, N. Y. Chairman: George B. Shamon Commiffee; Charles D. Bohrman, Ber­
nard J. Donoghue, Richard L. Donog­
hue, Francis J. Mastropietro 

AUGUSTA, ME. Chairman: Roland E. DeColeau Conimitfee; Edward Dempsey, Adolphe 
J. Gingras. Daniel B. Hicke5' 

AURORA, NEB. C?iairma7i: George C. Wanek Commiffee; Bernard Reinmiller 
BALTIMORE, MD. Chairman: Harold A. Williams Commiffee; John E. Conley, Frankljrn C. 
Hochreiter, Brother Martin John, Lewis, J. O'Shea, Roy O. Scholz, Dan Sullivan 

BATAVIA, N. Y. Chairman: Lawrence T. Casey Commiffee; Louis Brady, Thomas G. 
Canty, Donald M Donahue, James W. Murray, Philip J. Weiss 

BAHLE CREEK, MICH. CJuiirmon; Harold E. Steinbacher Committee: John M. Allen, Raymond R. 
Allen, Edward Baum, John T. Brown­ing, Frank L. Condon, Thomas H. Gould, Edward Hieftje, A. A. Mag­notta, Francis Lee Murray, Henry T. Owen, Clyde S. Salter, Lewis Sinclair, Robert Ward 

BEAUMONT, TEXAS Chairman: Clyde E. Broussard Commiffee; Walter M. Casey, John H. 
Phelan, Jr. 

BEDFORD, IND. Chairn^ian: Clarence J. Donovan Committee: Robert Heitger, Marshall 
Wallner 

BELMONT, MASS. Chairman: Joseph P. Sullivan Commiffee; James R. Skahan 
BENTON HARBOR, NILES, 
ST. JOSEPH, MICH. Choirman; Gerard C. Theisen Commiffee; Ray J. Beland, William 
Downey, Casper R. Grathwohl, John Kinney, Jr., Eugene J. OToole, Sr., Maurice A. Weber 

BINGHAMTON, N. Y. Chairman: John F. Donnelly Committee: James Cleary, Moe Frezie, 
Michael Hanifin, James H..Hogan, Dr. 
John T. Kane 

BIRMINGHAM, ALA. Chairman: George J. Dawson Commiffee; Edward B. Crawford, Joe 
McGeever, Paul Scalise 

BOISE, IDAHO Chairman: Jesse B. Hawley, Jr. 
BOSTON, MASS. Chairman: Robert N. Sullivan Committee: John T. Burke, Jack Nye Dufley, John Herbert, Arthur T. Mc-Manmon, John V. Moran, James C. Roy, Franklin H. Stuart 
BRADFORD COUNTY, PA. Chairman: James W. Cullen 
BRAINERD, MINN. Chairman: Joseph R. Dunn Com7iHffee; William F. Graham, Neil O'Brien 
BROCKTON, MASS. Chairman: Hugh F. Blunt Comm.iffee; Albert Birmingham, James 
H. Fitzgerald, James C. Givren 

BUFFALO, N. Y. 
Chairman: Bernard J. Bird Commiffee; Gordon Bennett, Anthony 
W. Brick, Robert J. Bums, William P. Dowdall, James J. Dunnigan, Daniel P. Falsioni, Robert P. Galloway, Charles 
A. Hannah, John L. Hoelscher, James 
D. Irwin, Augustus E. Jenkins, Donald 
W. Love, Frank Novak, Alfred C. Ryan, James E. Sejrmour, James Paul Sheedy, John H. Travers, Jr., Henry E. Weiss 
BURLINGTON, VT. Chairman: Frederick J. Fayette Committee: James Fayette, James Fitz­
patrick, Matthew G. Leary, Arthur A. Mitiguy, John F. Mitiguy, E. J. Moran, Harris L. Shepard 
BUTTE, MONT. Chairman: Richard C. Monahan Co-Chairman: Roy E. Murray, Jr. 
CAMBRIDGE, MASS. 
Chairman; Charles F. Crowley 
CAMDEN, N. J. 
Chairman; Daniel D. Halpin 
Comm.iffee; Willard F. Anzilotti, John M Barb, Harold Bowlus, Daniel E. Boyle, William C. Costello, Joseph G. Dalsey, Harry A. Ducat, John J. Dun­phy, Joseph E. Faggan, William L. Foohey, Thomas P. Ford, Charles J. Gallagher, Charles J. Graham, Erik Hemmingsen, Daniel J. Hurley, John 
J. Kinane, Russell A. Kurtz, William 
H. Lafferty, James R. Leonard, Walter 
C. Miller, John F. O'Hara, William C. Piccone, Harry A. Reinhart, Emmett A. Rohyans, Paul J. Schneider, Frank E. Swift, Charles J. Theisen, Bov Thomas, Robert J. Thomas, Lester J. Wolf, George W. Zimmerman 
CANTON, OHIO Chairman: Charles A. Kolp, Jr. Commiffee; William Belden, George P. Maloney, Jr., Lawrence J. Motter 
CHARLESTON, W. VA. 
Chairman: Joseph T. Neenan 
Committee: Maxwell Hill, Jr., William J. Kenney, Albert H. Kessing. Michael J. O'Connor, Vincent J. Reishman 
CHATTANOOGA, TENN. 
Chairman: John W. Terrell Commiffee; James Burkhart, Frank T. Delaney, Jr., William P. Delaney, Jr., Roger P. Eagan, Jr., Fred Eichom 
CHEYENNE, WYO. ChaiT-man; James Gordon Murphy Committee: George J. Kassis, Fred R. Kellogg 
CHICAGO, ILL Chairman: Arch B. Ward Co-Chairman: John W. Dorgan Convmittee: Arthur J. Bidwlll, James H. Brennan, Britton I. Budd, Robert F. Carey, James E. Coston, James R. Cro­nin, Frank Doan, Edward J. Daly, J. Raymond Fox, Edward W. Gould, James P. Harding, Daniel E. Hilgart­ner, Neil C. Hurley, Jr., Roger J. Kiley, Ray Lorenz, Thomas S. McCabe, James McCahey, John A. McGuire, Edward 
J. McLiaughlin, Peter F. McShane, Paul MuUaney, Edward J. Quinn, Bartholo­mew CToole, Joseph D. Shelly 
• 42 • 

CINCINNATI, OHIO Chairman: John H. Heilker 1^ Committee: Andrew P. Barton, Robert 
•
 H. Bischoff, Dwight Broeman, Albert 

D.
 Castellini, William A. Castellini, John C. Cottingham, Harry Gilligan, Jr., Robert W. Hughes, Robert J. Leon­ard, • Joseph S. Morrissey, Walter J. Nienaber. Howard J. Rohan, Richard 

W.
 Scallan 



CLEVELAND, OHIO Chairman: Norman J. McLeod Committee: Roger P. Brennan, Thomas E. 
Carey, Thomas E. Enright, Anthony 
E. Lavelle, Hugh M. O'Neill 

CLINTON, MASS. 
Chairman: John F. Burke 
COLORADO SPRINGS, COLO. 
Chairman: William J. Donelan, Jr. Committee; Don Alexander, Jr., Frank 
J. Cusack, John J. Durcan, John Hughes, Clarence D. O'Brien 

COLUMBUS, NEB. Chairman: Lester J. Carrig Committee: Milton Wagner 
COLUMBUS, OHIO W Chairman: Edward G. Cantwell Committee: John C. Fontana, Lawrence 
H. Halter, Henry G. Hughes, Thomas 
M. Hughes, Carl J. Kegelmayer 

CORNING, N. Y. Chairman: Peter M. Gritlin Committee: Edwin D. Bonham 
COVINGTON, KY. 
Cliairman: John B. Brinker Committee: Bernard H. Eilerman, Wil­liam B. Middendorf, Jr., George J. Wieschorster 
DALLAS, TEXAS 
Chairman: Thomas E. Braniff Vice-Chairman: Pat Buell Committee: William J. Brown, Dave 
Cowdin, Gerald Cullinan, Harold De­laney, Joseph B. Fleming, Walter L. Fleming, Ed R. Haggar, J. M. Haggar, Arthur Hughes, B. F. McLain, John J. Moran, Henry Neuhoff, John Neuhoff, _ J. J. Shea, J. W. Simmons, James W. 9 Simmons, Jr.. Arthur T. Simpson. James P. Swift, Joe C. Thompson, Jr. 
DAVENPORT, lOV/A Chairman: Jerome C. Arnold Committee: Alfred T. Erskine, Lawrence 
A. MuUins. Roger W. Nolan, John W. Schwind, Jr., George W. Vander Vennett 

DENVER, COLO. Chairman: Joseph A. Craven Committee: Eugene S. Blish, Francis 
Brown, John H. Humphreys, Daniel G. Monoghan, Jr., Bart W. O'Hara 

DES MOINES, IOWA Chairman: James Clement Shaw Conniiittee: Harold P. Klein, George J. 
Pflanz, Joseph E. Whalen 

DETROIT, MICH. Chairman: Arthur D. Cronin, Jr. 
DEVILS LAKE, N. D. I Chairman: John C. Cowley 
DOVER, N. H. Chairman: Thomas H. Keenan Committee: Charles E. Baxter, J. P. 
Keenan, Daniel F. McCooey, Melvin Morrison, M. J. Murphy, Emmet F. O'Gara 
DUBUQUE, IOWA Chairman: Thomas B. Schmid Committee: W. M. Clemens, Jr., Louis F. 
Fautsch, Robert Kenline, Henry Tren­kle, Jr., Joseph A. Rhomberg 
DULUTH, MINN. Chairman: William E. Cotter, Jr. Committee: PhiUip G. Hoene, Edward J. 
Kuth, Mark E. Nolan 
EAST CHICAGO, IND. Chairman: Lester Muiphy Committee: Henry McAuliile, Benjamin Schwartz 
EAU CLAIRE, WIS. Chairman: C. Thomas Downs ComTOtttee; Harry Kaiser, Paul E. Kell, 
Lloyd G. Stanley 
ELIZABETH, N. J. Chairman: James T. Quinn ComTOtttee; Edmund A. Burke, Anthony 
Ceres, Frank A. Milbauer, Joseph A. Nulty 
ELKHART, IND. 
Chairman: Robert E. Proctor 
Committee; Ed Armstrong, James D. Ash, William E. Case, Willard H. Ches­ter, William D. Dalton, Anthony De-Dario, Francis Ernst, Austin C. Gildea, Thomas V. Happer, Robert F. Holtz, Matthew Ronzone, Alex F. Sievers, Lincoln Sollitt, Leon E. Woodford 
ELMIRA, N. Y. Chairman: Francis F. O'Brien Committee: James Clynes, Paul M. Don­
ovan, Bernard Fagan, William C. Ken­nedy, James J. O'Dea 
EL PASO, TEXAS Chairman: Leo J. Momsen 
ELYRIA, OHIO Chairman: Allan W. Fritzsche Committee: Harold J. Barres, Richard S. 
Horan 
ERIE, PA. Chairman: George Mead Committee: Richard D. Daley, Joseph C. 
Barber 
EVANSVILLE, IND. 
Chairman: Ralph F. Heger Committee: Kenneth H. Cassidy, Wil­liam T. Fitzgerald, Robert S. Lamey, 
F. Wendell Lansing, Paul C. Thole, Philip J. Tompkins 
FALL RIVER, MASS. Chairman: James H. Coogan Co-Chairman: Thomas Collins Committee: Robert L. Carpenter, Walter Gotr 
FARGO, N. D. Chairman: Edward A. Simonson 
FLINT, MICH. 
Chairman: James Pearson 
Committee: Francis Corr; Thomas F. Halligan. Jr., Clifford Edward Heath, Paul Hughes, Joseph M. Kelleghan, Raymond J. Kelly, Jr., Joseph R. Knickerbacher, Joseph E. Kopien, Ed­
• 43 • 

ward Krupa,Don F.MacDonald, Robert 
J. MacDonald, George McDermott, William F. Minardo, Joseph Muhall, Arthur T. Paradis, Stephen Both, Dan­iel H. Sheeran, Emery Sherwood, Rob­ert Sibilsky, Robert E. Sweeney 
FOND DU LAC, WIS. Chairman: Roland A. Martin Co-Chairman: Emery W. Martin Committee: Kenneth B. Tohulka 
FT. LAUDERDALE, FLA. Chairman: Robert H. Gore, Jr. Committee: Robert Erkins, R. H. Gore, 
D. Kenneth CMeara, Fred Stewart, John C. Sullivan 
FT. WAYNE, IND. 
Chairman: Thomas A. McKieman 
Committee: John Berghoff, Harry G. Be­gan, Bernard T. Keams, Donnelly P. McDonald, Richard Nill 
FT. WORTH. TEXAS 
Chairman; James Record ,. / 
GARY, IND. 
Chairman: C. W. Bader Committee: James Cassidy, William V. Clifford, Sam Cohn, Edward Flannery, Richard A. Hall, William M. Lower, Daniel D. Lynch, Stephen T. Nyikos, Thomas J. Radigan, John M. Rohrbach, Rocco V. Schiralli 
GENEVA, N. Y. Chairman: Clare L. Touhey . Committee: Joseph T. DeBott, Bernard 
Putney 
GRAND RAPIDS, MICH. Chairman: Joseph Francis Deeb Committee: Robert N. Alt, Don Levan­
doski, George Ludwig, James Mcln­emey, Thomas G. Roach, Henry Van Wolvlear, Louis Weil, Jr. 
HAMILTON, OHIO Chairman: Marcellus A. Fiehrer Committee: Jerome A. Ryan, George 
Cyril Sanders, Harry F. Walsh, Walton 
J. Wuebbold 
HAMMOND, IND. Chairman: Timothy P. Galvin 
HANNIBAL, MO. Chairman: William H. Meyer 
HARRISBURG, PA. Chairman: Joseph R. Farrell Committee: Thomas F. Carfagno, John H. Clark, Edward R. Eckenrode, Jr., Frank 
C. Hayes, Robert M. Johnston, Robert 
J. Klaiber, John J. McNeill, Edward C. Smith, John B. WiUmann 
HARTFORD, CONN. Chairman: Timothy J. Murphy, Jr. Co-Chairman: Thomas B. Curry Committee: John E. Lynch, Jr., Charles 
H. McDonough, Matthew Meskill, Wil­liam J.Reid 
HAVERHILL, MASS. Chairman: Henry G. Armitage 
HIBBING, MINN. Chairman: Francis J. Ryan 
HOLYOKE, MASS. Chairman: UlricJ.Ruell Committee: Henry M. Padden; John F. Shea 
HOUSTON, TEXAS 
Chairman: George W. Strake 
Co-Chairman: R. Conroy Scoggins 
HUNTINGTON, W. VA. 
Chairman: Frank S. Doriot 
HYANNIS, MASS. Chairman: Vincent D. CNeU 
IDAHO FALLS, IDAHO Chairman: James M. Brady Committee: Robert Bauchman, J. Robb 
Brady 
INDIANAPOLIS, IND. Chairman: Walter J. Stuhldreher Committee: George A. BischofE, James 
D. Bowen, Nicholas J. Conner, Patrick 
J. Fisher, Joseph P. Harmon, William 
L. Leppert, Charles E. Mason, William 
J. Mooney, J. Albert Smith, G. Don Sullivan 
JACKSON, MICH. Chairman: Joseph A. Navarre 
JACKSON, MISS. 
Chairman: James T. Canizaro 
JACKSONVILLE, FLA. Chairman: George P. Coyle, Sr. 
JAMESTOWN, N. D. Chairman: Charles R. LeFevre 
JERSEY CITY, N. J. Chairman: George E. Wenz, Jr. Committee: James B. Clark, Donald F. 
Dugan, Harry O'Mealia 
JOHNSTOWN, PA. Chairman: S. David Solomon Committee: Stephen J. Conway, Jr., Wil­
liam F. FriedhofE, George W. Katter, 
E. E. Slick 
JOLIET, ILL 
Chairman: William J. Bossingham Committee: Wade J. Brady,- Michael Conway, Jr., John W. G'Arcy, Joseph 
V. Kirincich, Michael McFarland, Jos­eph H. Silk 
KALAMAZOO, MICH. Chairman: Arthur J. Mulholland, Jr. ComTnittee: S. Anderson, Frank G. 
Kersjes, James Mahoney, Robert J. 
Shields, John D. Simon 
KANSAS CITY, MO. 
Chairman: Joseph R. Stewart 
Committee: Vincent W. DeCoursey, Thomas E. Oakes, Thomas M. Rear-don, William Sharp, Joseph M. Van Dyke, J. F. Whitaker 
KOKOMO, IND. Chainnan: Mark E. Zimmerer Committee: J. Leo Grace, John Kiley, 
John Krebser, G. L. Rathel, J. L. 
Sheerin 
LAFAYEHE, IND. Chairman: Charles L. Vaughan Committee: D. Emmett Ferguson, Ed­ward L. Keating, Harry J, Laws, Ken­neth F. Laws, Francis J. Murphy, Wil­liam J. Schrader, James E. Vaughan, Francis D. Watson 
LAKELAND, FLA. Chairman: Joseph E. Keefe Committee: Frank P. Goodman, Jr., Wil­lard V. Hallam, Jack V. McGuire, Lyle 
E. Morency, George M. Rudolph, John 
C. Webster 
LACROSSE, WIS. Chairman: August M. Grams . Committee: Albert P. Ftmk, Frederick R. Funk, John W. Hackner, Jr., Robert Padesky, Richard H. Pearse, jr., John 
J. Simones 
LAPORTE, IND. Chairman: Alban M. Smith 
LAWRENCE, MASS. 
Chairman: James R. Dooley Committee; Stephen A. Boland, John C. Bresnahan, Joseph W. Mahoney, Al­bert A. Mulreany, James F. Secca­reccio 
LEWISTON-AUBURN, ME. Chairman: Paul Scully, Jr. Committee; Charles P. Lemaire, Charles 
M. Murphy 
LEXINGTON, KY. 
Chairman: Frank J. Quinn Committee: Bernard J. Bloemer, Paul L. Clark, John T. Shouse, R. Parker Sul­livan 
LITTLE ROCK, ARK. Chairman: John P. Murphy Committee; William V. O'Brien 

LOGANSPORT, IND. Chairman: James E. Digan Committee; Thomas Medland, Frank 
Shanks, Harold Tuberty 

LORAIN, OHIO Chairman: John P. Chapla Committee: Frederick Ferguson, James 
D. Reagan, Joseph A. Svete 

LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 
Chairman: Terence B. Cosgrove Co-Chairman: Leo B. Ward Committee: Frank J. Breslin, William P. 
Castleman, Thomas A. J. Dockweiler, Michael D. Fanning, Charles S. Gass, Eugene M. Kennedy, Eugene P. Ling, Joseph E. Madden, John M. Miller, Jos­eph W. Mullin, Jr., Rt Rev. Msgr. Francis C. Ott, Vernon E. Rickard 

LOUISVILLE, KY. 
Chairman: William P. Kelly 
Committee; Norvin I,ee Casper, Joseph 
F. Donaldson, Charles G. Morrow, Cor­nelius J. Pfeiffer, William A. Reisert, Jr., William J. Woemer 

LOWELL, MASS. Chairman: Chester P. McDonald Committee: James B. Coffey, John F. 
Kenney, John V. McManmon, Daniel 
J. O'Connor, William D. Wood 

LYNCHBURG, VA. Chainnan; Paul M Morrison Committee: Crist Herring, Albert L. Moore, Thomas A. Morrison 
LYNN, MASS. Chairman: Daniel J. Quinlan Committee: Daniel J. Boyle, Edward D. Callahan, Francis J. Dancewicz, Thomas J. Whalen 
MADISON, WIS. Chairman: Karl T. Brennan Committee; Harold W. Carey, Frank E. Doyle, Ruben E. Grundeman, John E. Martin, John W. Roach 
MALONE, N. Y. Chairman; Cornelius J. Carey, Jr. Committee: Ralph M. Cardinal, Jr. 
.44. 

MANCHESTER, N. H. 
Chairman: Francis J. Hand 
Committee: George L. Bastian, Jr., Ber­nard J. Cushing, Charles H. Martel, James R. Martin, Timothy L. Sullivan 
MANDAN, N. D. Chainnan: William L. Neff Committee: William H. McCormick 
MARINETTE, WIS. 
Chairman: Joseph A. Lauerman 
Committee: Norman C. Bartholomew, Michael S. Corry, Francis LangriU, Frank J. Lauerman, Jr., Thomas Plouff 
MARION, OHIO Choirman: Daniel M. Murphy Committee: Theodore P. Frericks, John 
W. Watters 

MELROSE, MASS. 
Chairman: James A. Day Committee: James J. Forrest, John J. Hanley, Benjamin C. Pollard, Charles 
A. Tobin, Paschal Tofuri 

MEMPHIS, TENN. 
Chairman: P. A. McPhillips Committee: Phil M. Canale, Jr., Dorsey Mathis, John S. Montedonico, Charles 
P. J. Mooney, Jr., Lawrence Thomp­son, Jr. 

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO Chairman: Louis G. Alaman 
MIAMI, FLA. Chairman: Walter D. Rowlands Committee: George Brautigam, Faris 
Cowart, Daniel P. Galen, John A. Kotte, Robert M. Little, WiUiam T. Shivell 

MICHIGAN CITY, IND. 
Chairman: Mark Storen Com,mittee: Hugh L. Bums, John P. Donnelly 
MILFORD, MASS. Chairman: Wendell T. Phillips Committee: Richard Gilfoyle, James A. 
Higgiston, Cyril F. KeUett, Paul L. Lally, Loring P. Webber 
MILWAUKEE, WIS. 
Chairman: Fred C. Miller Committee: Thomas E. Dixon, Don T. Gottschalk, Frank J. Ladky, Jr., Robert Luick, Brian C. McLaughlin, Harold C. Watson 
MINOT, N. 0. ChairTTian; E. G. DeMots Committee: James A. Clifford, John D. Coughlin, George A. McGee • 
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 
Chairman: Gerald F. Conway 
Committee: Emmett L Barron, Robert Bruzek, Paul H. Castner, Louis P. Chute, Arnold L. Cleveland, William 
H. Cole, John J. Doyle, James H. Finn, 
•
William Guimont, Charles Hallman, Ray Hanousek, Thomas Hodgson, Michael Keegan, William Lord, Charles 

L.
 Madden, Jr., Leon J. Moes, Steve E. Puffer, Gerald M. Remole, S. Paul Ska-hen, Paul Wallace 


MOLINE, ILL 
Chairman; John R. Coryn 
Committee: William P. Bembrock, Jer­ome S. CuUigan, Alfred T. Erskine, Francis C. King, John F. McDonnell, George A. Uhlmeyer 
MONESSEN, PA. 
Chairman: Edward J. Dean Committee; Raymond A. Black, A. V. Capano, James Devlin, Thomas J. Kal­man, George Martinet, Frank A. Piz­^ Eica, Paul F. Puglia, J. Vincent Solsson 
MONROE, MICH. . Chairman: Thomas E. GrifBn Committee; William J. Braunlich, Ber­nard L. Cousino, Lawrence E. Merman, Francis T. Ready 
MOn, N. D. Chairman: Robert V. Trousdale 
MUNCIE, IND. Chairman: Thomas A. Cannon Committee; William F. Craig, Howard 
R. DeVauIt, Norbert W. Hart, Fred­erick E. Watson 

MUSCATINE, IOWA ChaiTTnan; Robert L. Roach Committee; Robert B. Jehring, John W. 
Roach, Ralph S. Welch, John E. Wes­sels 

MUSKEGON, MICH. Chairman: John F. Frederick Committee: Harry E. Brown, George W. 
Cannon, Jr., Frank J. Donovan, Francis 
W. Feeney, Joseph T. Riley, Joseph F. Sanford, O. A. Seyferth 

NASHVILLE, TENN. » Chairman: Thomas McNicholas Com.mittee: John E. Harwood, Kennedy Jones, Charles S. Wells 
NEWARK, N. J. 
Chairman: Joseph M. Byrne, Jr. 
Committee: Edward F. Broderick, Ed­ward L. Duggan, James E. Fagan, Thomas FarreU, Gervase FroeSch, Gerald Hayes, Philip Heinle, George Melinkovich, Daniel O'Neill, Joseph P. Quinn, Jr., Peter J. Quinn, Jr., Russell Riley, Bernard K. Wingerter 
NEWARK, OHIO ChatT-man: Charles A. McGonagle Assistant Chairman: Michael P. Clouse Assistant Chairman: Harry F. Kilburger Committee: Girard E. Besanceney, Ches­
ter D. Cullison, Invin L. Goldman, John Willard Murphy, Phil Vogel­meier, Jr. 

NEW ORLEANS, LA. Chairman; William B. Dreux Committee: E. Bolan Burke, Charles E. 
^ de la Vergne, Jules K. de la Vergne, Harold D. Sporl 
NEWPORT, R. I. Chairman: James J. Connell 
NEW ULM, MINN. Chairman; Otto J. Seifert Committee: Robert J. Berens 
NEW YORK, N. Y. 
Chairman: Frank C. Walker 
Executive Committee; Robert L. Cahill, Jordan T. Hargrove, John A. Hoyt, Jr., Daniel J. O'Neil, Tierney A. O'Rourke, George H. Rohrs 
NORTHAMPTON, MASS. Chairman: Donald D. Sullivan 
NOTRE DAME, IND. 
Chairman: James E. McCarthy 
Committee: Lawrence H. Baldinger, Rev. Joseph Barry, Rev. Henry J. Bol­ger. Brother Columbe Curran, George 
F. Driseoll, Bernard J. Kohlbrenner, 

Walter M. Langford, Frank Leahy, \ Archie J. MacAlpin, Clarence Manion, 
Guy H. McMichael, Rev. Philip Moore, Bev. Gerald B. Fhelan, Donald J. Plun­kett, Charles C. Price, Arthur Rey­niers, Ronald Rich, Arnold E. Ross, Raymond Schubmehl, Rev. Robert J. Sheehan, Edmund A. Smith, Lawrence 

F. Stauder, George Wallace 
OSDENSBURG, N. Y. Chairman: Joseph R. Brandy Committee: Joseph T. Bamett 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLA. 
Chairman: Haskell Askew Committee; James E. Burke, Rodney F. Janeway, Robert E. McFarlaiid, John 
B. Martin, Charles L. Monnott, Jr. 
OSHKOSH, WIS. Chairman: Charles J. Fiss 
OSWEGO, N. Y. Chairman: Thomas M. McGough Committee: John A. Davis, Robert S. 
McDonough 
PALM BEACH, FLA. Chairman: John R. Butler Committee: William Madden, Jr., Ed F. 
Mulligan 
PATERSON, N. J. Chairman: Richard John Dericks Committee: Michael J. Bisbko, John 
Blanda, T. Lawrence Cronin, Jr., James Kehoe 
PAWTUCKET, R. I. Chairman: Leo R. McAloon Committee: John V. Brady, Vincent A. 
Doyle, John J. Fitzgerald, Edward F. McGrath, John Mclntyre, Frank A. Martin, Joseph Zuronski 
PEMBROKE, MASS. ChaiTTnan: Frederick C. Solari, Jr. 
PEORIA, ILL Chairman: Frank H. Murphy Committee: Daniel J. Hecht, William J. 
Motsett, Don Smith, Thomas H. Zosky 
PERTH AMBOY, N. J. Chairman: John E. Ldsicki Committee: Michael J. Balog, Anthony 
V. Ceres, Gregory S. Costa, Jr., William 
V. Gadek, B. William Harrington, Thomas F. Kenneally, Rev. Joseph Kerr, John E. Toolan 
PHILADELPHIA, PA. Chairman; Daniel H. Young Co-chairman: Edward J. Lyons Committee: Charles A. Conley, Thomas 
E. Lewis, Austin Meehan, John H. Nee­son, Jr., John J. Reilly, Leonard H. Tose 
PHOENIX, ARIZ. Chairman: Robert Daniel Kendall Committee: Stephen J. Bielli, Lester C. Hegele, John G. CMalley, Jr. 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Chairman: Leo O'DonneU 
Committee: Rev. Vincent P. Brennan, J. Vincent Burke, Jr., Robert V. Cham­berlain, Bernard W. Conroy, Eugene J. Coyne, John Crimmins, Rudolph C. Cmkovic, James S. Devlin, Hugh A. Gallagher, Hugo A. lacovetti, B. J. Kaiser, George H. Kingsley, Jr., H. Carl Link, Edward C. McHugh, Jr., Paul J. McArdle, John P. Monteverde, Richard 
J. O'DonneU, James Lawrence OToole, John W. Patterson, Jr., John B. Rear-don, John C. Sheedy, William L. Six-' smith, Leo J. Vogel 
• 45 • 

PLYMOUTH, INO. Chiumum: Marshall F. Kizer Committee: Gerald J. Ball. Vincent Ball, 
Howard Hilles, Walter McDennott 
PONCA, NEB. Chairman: Francis B. Hurley Committee: Harry Davey 
PORT ARTHUR, TEXAS Chairman: Christie C. Flanagan 
PORT HURON, MICH. Chairman: Clifford O'Sullivan Committee: Harry S. Erd, Jr., John K. 
Leahy, F. Granger Weil, William L. Wilson, John S. WittlifiE 
PORTLAND, ORE Chairman: Frank J. Lonergan Committee: Edward J. Sandstrom 
PORTSMOUTH, OHIO 
Chairman: William A. Burke, Jr. Committee; William P. Hooley, Jr., Jer­ome M. Wiggins 
PROVIDENCE R- I. Chairman: PaulD. Hoeffler Committee: Nelson G. Burke, J. Clement 
Grimes, T. Russell McGrath, John A. 
Mclntyre 
PUEBLO. COLO. Chairman: A. R. Thomas Committee; James H. Abell, A. J. Doo­
ner, John J. Mannion, Frank Pryor, 
Jr., Ralph Welte 
RACINE. WIS. Chairman: James M. Hamilton Co-Chairman: H. M. Benstead Committee: Grover F. Miller, George H. 
Wheary, Jr. 
RENO, NEV. Chairman: Michael A. Diskin Committee: John V. Ducey, Thomas G. 
Horgan 
RHINELANDER, WIS. Chairman: Donald C. O'Melia 
RICHMOND, IND. Chairman: Norman B. Jenkins Committee: Albert J. Corsi, J. Ross Har­
rington, Joseph L Hoch, Edward J. 
Huether, Hairy G. Kitchin, Augustus 
G. Luken, James R. Luken, Charles M. Quigley, George B. Steins 
RICHMOND, VA. 
Chairman: Francis R. Kelley, Jr. 
Committee: Walter Hagen, Jr., Charles 
M. Morrison, Charles R. Riley, Robert Sfaeppard, Jr., Francis Stumpf 
ROCHESTER, N. Y. 
C?iair7nan: Joseph P. Flynn 
Committee: William R. Bell, Francis Collins, Joseph Geraghty, Thomas Meagher, Richard T. Sullivan, Victor G. Yawman 
ROCKFORD, ILL Chairman: Leonard W. Condon Committee: Robert Doyle, James Dunn, Donald A. Hennessy, £. M. Lorden, John McCabe, Harold O'Connor 
ROCK ISLAND, ILL Chairman: Edmund J. Meagher Committee: William Bembrock, Alfred 
T. Erskine, John F. McDonnell. Stefdien 
C. Miller, Myron J. Murphy, Vance N. Uhlmeyer 
RUTLAND, VT. 
ChaiTTnan: Louis W. Esposito Committee: Francis E. Cannon, John D. Carbine, Lawrence CuUiney, John J. Dolan, John A. Foley, Joseph M. Foley, Edward G. McClallen, Jr., Joseph F. Radigan 
SA&INAW, BAY CITY, OWOSSO, MICH. 
Chairman: Thomas F. Van Aarle 
ST. JOSEPH, MO. 
Chairman: Richard W. Snooks Committee: Francis J. Fogarty, Henry J. Garvey, Rev. John R. Quinn 
ST. LOUIS, MO. 
Chairmxm: Bertrand D. Coughlin 
Committee: Firmin D. Fusz, Walter A. George, Fred S, McNeill, Richard C. Muckerman, Albert J. Ravarino 
ST. PAUL, MINN. Chairman: Robert Rogers Committee; Paul H. Castner, Edward C. Krlck, Vincent R. Shiely 
SAUNA, KAS. 
Chairman: Norbert F. Skelley 
Committee: John E. Carlin, George W. Cole, Albert McLean, Albert J. Schwartz, Michael N. Schwarz 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Chairman: John W. Gallivan Committee: Edward Naughton, Leo C. 
Nulty 
SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS Chairman: William V. Dielmann, Jr. 
SANDUSKY, OHIO Chairmun: Charles M. Mouch Committee: Richard C. Hohler, J. Ed­
ward Kennedy, Francis O'Hara, John 
E. Savord, Alfred A. Schnurr, Jr. 
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIF. Chairman: Keene P. Fitzpatrick Committee: Don Allen, John W. Carey, 
Richard J. Fuite 
SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 
Chairman: John J. Huether 
Committee; John A. Holland, John F. Hurley, John A. Loritsch, J. E. O'Loughlin, E. J. Walsh, J. J. York 

SCRANTON, PA. 
Chairman: Louis J. Finske Committee: Thomas F. J. Friday, James 
D. Jordan, Thomas F. Leahy, Joseph Manning, John J. O'Leary, Gerald A. Purcell, Thomas Taylor, Stanley A. Walker 

SEAHLE, WASH. 
Chairman: John P. English Committee; John F. Boespflug, Joseph L. Carroll, W. Jerome Kane, James F. Lyons, Charles F. Osbom, Jr., Robert L Pigott 

SHEBOYGAN, WIS. Chairman: William A. Gottsacker 
SHREVEPORT, LA. 
Chaimuin: Joseph Edward McKean Committee: Victor J. Martzel, James R. Nowery, John E. Nowery 

SIOUX FALLS, S. D. Chairman: Thomas M Reardon Committee; B. Scott Reardon, Jr. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. ChaiTm.an: Bernard J. VoU 
SPARTANBURG, S. C. Chairman: John L. Joyce Committee: Thomas F. Armstrong 
SPRINGFIELD, ILL Chairman: John Mitchell Carroll Co-Chairman: Charles G. Corcoran Committee: Roscoe Bonjean, Richard T. 
Neeson, Fred J. Schlosser, Sr., Harold 

A. Stone SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 
Chairman: William J. Granfield Committee: William P. Collins, Kieran 
L. Dunn, Jr., Edward J. Glynn, William 
A. Hurley, J. Frank Murphy, Raymond 
P. Snyder 

SPRINGFIELD, MO. Chairman: John H. Landers Committee: John A, Quinn, Henry A, 
Meyer, Jr., Louis W. Reps 

SPRINGFIELD, OHIO Chairman: Andrew L. Hellmuth 
STERLING, ILL Chairman: Joseph H. Bittorf Com,mittee: Paul Fry, Donald A. Hen­
nessy, Warren Wahl 

SYRACUSE, N. Y. 
Chairman: Leo D. Kelley 
Committee: H. Justin Corcoran, Freder­ick T. DeLany, Jr., John E. McAulifEe, Mark E. Mooney, John H. Terry, Rev. Joseph B. Toomey 

TACOMA, WASH. Chairman: William J. Ellis Committee; Leslie Furlong, Theodore 
Gaffney, Joseph Manley, Arthur B. Raitano, August Von Boecklin 

TAUNTON, MASS. Choirman; Charles F. Colton Committee; James Burns, James P. 
Coyle, Frederick Fitzsimmons, Peter Gay 

TERRE HAUTE, IND. Chairman: Louis F. Keifer Committee: Frederick G. Christman, Jr., 
Raymond J. Keams 

TIFFIN, OHIO Chairman: Fred J. Wagner 
TRENTON, N. J. Chairman: Peter J. Morgan, Jr. Committee: Santo Belli, Thomas Carlin, 
Leo Hughes, Carlton Reilly, Howard Waldron TRINIDAD, COLO. Chairman: Joseph F. Nigro 
TROY, N. Y. 
Chairman: Thomas V. Dollard 
TUCSON, ARIZ. ChaiTTnan: James M. Murphy Committee; Elmer Beston, Paul Dufaud, Charles J. Kennedy, Chris A. Reilly, Frank L. Roy, Ted W. Witz 
TULSA, OKLA. Chairman: Walter B. Moran Committee: 3. N. McGirl, Clay M. Mur­ray, Carl J. Senger 
UTICA, N. Y. Chairman: A. Charles Hitzelberger Committee: Herbert C. Daiker, Jr., 
Frank W. Donalty, James T. Doyle, Robert F. Fitzgerald, Vincent T. Fletcher, Michael J. Foley, Donald Fullem, Anthony J. Giruzzi, James T. GrifiSn, Francis 'E. Hacket, John F. Kelley, Clifford Lederman, Lester L. Lovier, Arthur J. McGee, Joseph G. Maher, Frank A. Marino, Edward Noo­nan, Bart O'Shea, George A. Richtpr, Daniel C. Shaugbnessy, Edward Sweeney, Daniel E. Waterbury 

VICKSBURG, MISS. Chairman: Lawrence H. Hennessey Committee: C. Homer Smith 
VINCENNES, IND. Chairman: James D. McQuaid Committee; Frank Bergman, Frank Con­
rad, Rene Dognaux, Richard Dora, 
C. L. Kelso, Ralph H. Simon, Paul C. Thole 
WARREN, OHIO 
Chairman; Paul A. Guamieri 
Committee: James Brutz, Joseph F. Dray, Donald T. Heltzel, Albert Van Huffle, Harold E. Van Huffle 
WASECA, MINN. Chairman: Daniel M Coughlin 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Chairman: Leo F. Mullin Honorary Chairman: Albert F. Zahm Co-Chairmen; James A. Flynn, Paul 
Mallon 
Committee; Robert W. Cavanaugh, Dan­iel Culhane, Joseph R. Gorman, Wil­liam C. Karl, Thomas L. McKevitt, Myles Quail 
WATERBURY, CONN. 
Chairman: William J. Andres Committee; Robert L. DuBois, Norbert 
F. Henebry, D. Frank Mumane, Joseph 
H. Robinson, Rev. John J. Sullivan 
WHEELING, W. VA. AND BELLAIRE, OHIO Chairman: Louis J. Yaeger, Jr. Committee: William M.'Dusch, William 
N. Hogan, John J. Malik, Edmund A. Sargus, William J. Yaeger 
WHITING, IND. Chairman: Ray Schaub Co-Chairman: James J. Glenn Committee: Austin Boyle, George W. 
Homett, Jeremiah McCarthy, Peter C. Smidt 
WILKES-BARRE. PA. Chairman: Gilbert V. Perry Committee: Thomas Brock, Peter Cas­
terline, Nicholas Maiuriello, Maurice J. Regan, Edward J. Rowan 
WILLIAMSPORT, PA. Chairman: Francis C. Hayes 
WILMINGTON, DEL Chairman; Donald B. Killian Committee: William D. Bailey, Arthur 
A. Baum, Thomas E. Dillon WOONSOCKET, R. I. Chairman: John J. McLaughlin Committee: Fred J. Greene, Russell L. 
Hunt, Aram P. Jarrett, Daniel Keefe, Frank J. Surprenant 
WORCESTER, MASS. 
Chairman; Edward J. McGauley 
Committee: Joseph W. Crotty, Charles 
F. Monahan, Jr. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
Chairman: Charles B. Cushwa, Jr. 
Committee: John Buckley, Paul J. Flem­ing, Thomas Jones, Jr., George H. Kel­ley, Thomas E. Kerrigan, William G. Lyden, Edward B. Madden, Frank A. Mastriana, Gabriel E. Moran, Tom Murray, Jr., Richard A. Riley, Clarence 
T. Sheehan, Joseph G. Vaschak 
ZANESVILLE, OHIO 
Chairman: T. Vincent Mclntire Committee: Raymond E. Longstreth, James W. Plummer 
46 

THE VNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOVNDATION 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C, '23 . . . President of the University and Director of the Foundation Harry G. Hogan, '04 Chairman of the Board of Governors James E. Armstrong, '25 Vice-Chairmanof the Board of Governors 
State amd Foreigm Gapermmrm 
ALABAMA: Raymond E. Faherty, '24 ARIZONA: William P. Mahoney, "39 ARKANSAS: Matthew H. Rothert, '24  MISSISSIPPI: Lawrence H. Hennessy, '27 MISSOURI: Joseph B. McGlynn, '12 MONTANA: Dr. Richard C. Monahan, '98  VIBGINIA: Anselm D . Miller,'25 WASHINGTON: Emmett G. Lenihan, 17 WESTVUGINIA: Arthur P. Hudson. "95  
CALIFORNIA: Thomas H. Heam, '15 COLORADO: Robert A. Dick, '29 CONNECTICUT: John T. CuUinan, '28 DELAWARE: M . Harry Miller, '10  NEBRASKA: Gerald J. McGinley, '26 NEVADA: E . P. Carville, '09 NEW HAMPSHIRE: Maxine Gauthier, "29 NEW JERSEY: Raymond A. Geiger, '32  WiscoNsra: Robert L. Hamilton. "34 WYOMING: Thomas G. Kassis, "31 ABGENTIIM AND UBUCUAY: Charles H. Litty, •34  
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: Leo F. MuUin, 11FLORIDA: Lester Foley, '24 GEORGIA: Michael F. Wiedl, '24 IDAHO: Thomas J. Jones, Jr., '29 ILLINOIS: John E. Cassidy, '17 INDIANA: J. Arthur Haley, '26 IOWA: Henry C. Wurzer, '25 KANSAS: Daniel J. Welchons, '30 KENTUCKY: Frank B. Bloemer, '22  .  NEW MEXICO: Anton R. Hebenstreit, '11 NEW YORK: E. A. Berkery, '27 NORTH CAROLINA: Edward J. Koontz, '32 NORTH DAKOTA: William L. Neff, '29 OHIO: Hugh M. O'Neill,'1'? OKLAHOMA: Joseph A. Moran, "32 OREGON: William C. Schmitt, '10  PENNSYLVANIA: John F. McMahon, '28 RHODE ISLAND: John F. McKieman, '34  BOLIVIA: Hany E . Kennedy, "31 BRAZIL: Arthur L . Denchfield, Jr., "29 CANADA: Frank J. Sbaughnessy, "06 CANAL ZONK Joseph H. Harrington, "39 CHILE: Enrique Rosselot, '20 COLOMBIA: Luis C. Bustamente, "22 CUBA: C . C . Fitzgerald,'94 PERU: John J. Kinsella, "34 PuEBidRico: Paul F. McManus.'34 >  
LOUISIANA: Arthur R. Carmody, '15 MAINE: John U, Riley, '17 MARYLAND: E. Bradley Bailey, '22 MASSACHUSETTS: John F. Saunders, '31 MICHIGAN: John E. Moore, '11 MINNESOTA: Dr. John M. CuUigan, '15  SOUTH CAROLINA: John L. Joyce, '41 SOUTH DAKOTA: T. C . Kasper, '21 TENNESSEE: Galvin Hudson, '15 TEXAS: James P. Swift, '24 UTAH: Philip J. Purcell,'35 VERMONT: Edward G. McClallen, '31  T£BRiTOinr OF HAWAU: Thomas W. Flynn. '35 liEGAL COUNSEL: Clarence E. Manion. "22 STAFF PROJECT DIRECTOR: John N. Cackley, Jr., "S? STAFF STATISTICIAN: Herman A. Zitt, '48  

The Board ol Directors of the Aiamtmi A»»meiatimu 
Harry G. Hogan, '04, Fort Wayne, Indiana President Thomas F. Byrne, '28, Cleveland Heights, Ohio . . . Honorary President Francis Wallace, '23, Bellaire, Ohio First Vtce-Pre*idcnt Robert T. Hellrung, '30, St. Louis, Missouri Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, South Bend, Indiana ... . Secretary William R. Dooley, '26, South Bend, Indiana Assistant Secretary 
Joseph M. Boland, '27, South Bend, Ind. Arthur D. Cronin, Jr., '37, Detroit, Mich. Paul R. Bliallon, "23, Washington, D. C. Rev. Vincent P. Brennan, '32, Pittsburgh, PaJ Harold E. Duke, '30, Philadelphia, Pa. Daniel J. CNeii, "25, New York. N. Y. 
Louis F. Buckley, '28, Cleveland, Ohio John J. Elder, '30, Chicago, HI. Leo B. Ward, "20, Los Angeles, Calit 
The Vmivergity ol Notre Datme Admtiulatratimm 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C. President Rev. John H. Murphy, C. S. C. . . Vice-President 
Rev. Howard Kenna, C. S. C. Director of Studies Rev. B. J. Furstoss, C. S. C Supertnsor of Maintenance Rev. James E. Norton, C. S. C, Assistant Director of Studies Brother Albinus Butler, C. S. C, Cashier Rev. John J. Burke, C. S. C, Business Manager Mr. J. Arthur Haley. Director of Public Relations Rev. Joseph Kehoe, C. S. C, Prefect of Discipline Mr. James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C. S. C, Exec. Assistant to President Mr. William J. Brodericfc, Comptroller 
Rev. Louis Thornton, C. S. C, Registrar Mr. John V. Hinkel. Director of Dept. of Public In/omuition Rev. William Craddick, C. S. C, Prefect of Religion Mr. Edward J. Murray. Director of Student Accounts Rev. John J. Reddington, C. S. C, Purchasing Agent 
The Aggoeiate Board ol hafg Trasteem 
Mr. Ernest M. Morris, '06, South Bend, Indiana . . . President Mr. I. A. O'Shaughnessy, St. Paul, Minnesota ... . Vice-President Mr. Thomas H. Beacom, Jr., '20, Chicago, Illinois . . Treasurer Mr. William J. Broderick, Notre Dame, Indiana . . . Assistant Treasurer 
Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Chicago, 111. Mr. Frank C. Walker, '09, New York, N. Y. Hon. Joseph P. Kennedy, New York, N. Y. Mr. Terence B. Cosgrove, '06, Los Angeles, Mr. Bernard J. Voll, '17, South Bend, Ind. Dr. Constantine £. McGuire, Washington. Calif. 
Mr. Joseph M. B3rme, '15, Newark, N. J. D.C. Mr. Walter J. Duncan, '12, LaSalle, 111. 
Mr. Timothy P. Galvin, '16, Hammond, Ind. Mr. John Moody, New York. N. Y. Mr. Joseph A. LaFortune, '16, Tulsa, Okla. 
Mr. C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis. Mr. George W. Strake, Houston. Texas Mr. John P. Murphy, '12, Cleveland, Ohio 
Mr. Edward J. Doyle, Chicago, HI. Mr. Peter C. Reilly, Indianapolis, Ind. Mr. John C. TuUy, '11, LaGrange, 111. 
Mr. Charles Fisher, Detroit, Mich. Mr. Charles F. Williams, Cincinnati, Ohio 
(The Provincial, President, Vice-President and Business Manager of the University are ex officio members) 
47 

For Outstanding Editorial Achievement In publication of an alumni magazine 
iKtuarb of iHerit 

In the 1948 Mag.izine Awards Competition sponsored by the American Alumni Council • for alumni publications in the United States and Canada 
rrcsidait, Am'crioin Alumni Council 
Director fnrj^agawncs "• O 

To the "1948 MANUAL AND GUIDE FOR CITY COMMIT­TEES AND ALUMNI" (Foundation supplement to the March issue of The Notre Dame Alumnus) the above award was presented at the Ann Arbor Convention of the American Alumni Council on July 15. Judges selected the Notre Dame Manual from among the magazines of 182 other colleges and universities entered in the competitions. 
This September, 1948, Manual is a Supplement to the September, 1948, Issue of The Notre Dome Alumnus, Vol. 26, No. 5. 









