The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

The Notre Dame 
"wmmmW: 


ALUMN 
Vol. 24 DECEMBER, 1946 No. 6 
The National Champions of 1946 
(See story on Page 13) 

wmlk 

JsfOTKE DJ\nE 1946 FOOTB. 5 QUAD 
• tur, Pot + ai-.-Lirnan-f-, ^ 9 1-t r-o rt (f 
'.^olsh,D<iuo~ertj,bi<.Kion, CnQS Conno' '' , .,..,j,.,.,Claff, Gaxps re ll4,Vo^a,, f<!-,f 5 

First Club Presidents' Meeting, Nov. 29-30 
'«V 
f?^.^'
.'Sf.' -^ \4 
> - ^v * 

W . W 
•I M ,., 
Top row: left to right. Emmett Ferguson. Wabash Valley; John McKendry. Bufialo; Bill Woemer. Kentucky: Ted Berkery. New York City; Bob Elaiber, Harrisburg: John Clauder, Milwau­kee; Bill Guimont, Twin Cities; Charley Osbom. Western Wash­ington; Bill McCormick. Florida; Charley Hitzelberger, Mohawk VaUey. 
Sixth row: left to right, Frank Milbauer, New Jersey; Tom Murphy, S. W. Connecticut- Vince Turley. Connecticut VaUey; VEke Layden, Indianapolis; Carl Link. Western Pennsylvania; Eugene Blish, Denver; Bill Jacobs, Baltimore; Tom (C.) Byrne. Cleveland; Tom Dillon. Delaware; Max Hill.' West Virginia; Fred Wagner, Tifflin; Conroy Scoggins, Houston. 
Fifth row: left to right Leo Muilin, Washington, D. C; Jim Hogan; Triple Cities; Alex Sloan, Peoria; Walt Nienaber, Cin­cinnati; Jim Dwyer, Erie; Glen Dubs, Canton; John Campbell. Capital Disiricb John Neeson. Joe Cattie. Harold Duke, Cliff Prodehl. Philadelphia Club; Ed Simonich. Montana. 
Fourth row, left to right Al Ravarino, St Louis; Spike Sulli­van, Oklahoma; Joe Kirincich, JoUet- Bill Dreux, New Orleans: John Femeding, Dayton; Hawley Van Swall, Central New York; George Morris, Detroit; Paul Glass, Los Angeles; Walt Fleming, Dallas; Marc Fiehrer, Hamilton, O.: Al Doyle, St Joseph Valley; \^c e Carney, Bock Biver Valley; Ed Dean, Monongahela VaUey. 
Third row: left to right, Leo Mclntyre, Eastern Pennsylvania-John Millott, Sandusky; Vince De Coursey, Kansas City; Hugh 
 <•";.• '' 
-^r^ >i X 

f!^ ^ •«V^..-K' 
Blunt Greater Boston; John McLaughlin, Rhode Island; Barney Macnab, Portland, Ore.: Wc Hart Eastern Indiana; Ted Witz. Tucson: Phil Hemming, Kane County; Paul Bertsch, Akron, O.; Casey Krajewski. Dubuque; Don Levandosld. Grand Rapids; George Howard, Washington. D. C; Bill Schmitt. Portland,.Ore„­Bill Dooley, Alumni Office. 
Second row: left to right Paul Sagstetter, Ft Wayne: Dick Fuite, Northern California; Vic Lemmer, Gogebic Range; Frank Howland, Memphis: Sheridan Cook, Berrien County: Sal Gioe, Cental New Jersey; Tom Van Aarle. Saginaw Valley; Fronk Connelly, Rochester, N. Y.; Regis Fallon, Phoenix; John Moran, Youngstown; Dick Nowery, Northern Louisiana; Frank Meyer, Calumet District; Bemie English. Toledo. 
Front row: left to right Tom McCabe. Chicago; Phil Purcell, Salt Lake City; Charley Corcoran, Springfield, 111.; Harry F. Kelly, Alumni Board: Bill Mooney, Alumni Board; Jerry "Cd" Ashe, Alumni Board; Father VSke Moriarty, Alumni Board; Father John Cavanaugh, President of Notre Dame; Tom (F.) Byrne, President of the Alumni Association; Father John Murphy, Vice-President of Notre Dame; Jolm Ealfe, Alumni Board; Father Robert Sweeney. Director of Alumni Affairs, Notre Dame; Jim Armstrong. Alumni Office. 
At meeting but not in picture: Con Carey. Northern New York; John Conlin. Jackson. Mich.; Frank Langril!. Hiawatha-land; Paul Thole. Tri-Stale. 
The Alumni Board and the Alumni Office join in wishing that every Notre Dame man will have a Christmas abundant in the blessings of the Infant Christ and a New Year of deep happiness. 
i2^$^^$$^$-$.$^$$$-$^^$$^$^^^$^$^$^$^^$$.$$4^$.^$^$.$$^| 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
niis maffazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notxe Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. Enteicd as aeeond elaaa matter Octfv ber I, 1939. at the Fostoffice, Notre Dame. Indiana, under the act of August 24. 1912. Member of the American Alnmni CoondL 
lames E. Aimstiong, '25, Editor: M\mUam B. Dooley. '26. Managing Editor 
VOL. 24 DECEMBER. 1946 NO. 6 
77 Club Representatives at Campus Sessions 
Only Six Oubs Not Between Clubs, as 
Seventy-seven, out of 83, Notre Dame Clubs were represented on Nov. 29 and 30 as the University and the Alumni Association had as their guests on the campus Club delegates from all parts of the United States. Only two Clubs found it impossible to send delegates. Four del­egates had to cancel at the last minute. 

Mostly, the representatives were the Club presidents, in person. A few presi­dents, unable to come themselves, sent official alternates. (A complete listing of those present appears with the accom­panying picture in this issue.) 
Planned by the Alumni Board at its September meeting in Cleveland, the presidents' gathering, first in the history of the University, was designed to estab­lish a stronger, better coordinated Club organization. Firm in the conviction that the Clubs are the "outposts" of the school, the Board desired to have the Clubs "tied in" more eilectively with the Alumni Office and, through that Office, with the University. Some fundamental uniformity in Club aims and methods was, the Board felt, vitally desirable. 
Such was the purpose. And, if the enthusiastic response expressed by the presidents at the meeting, and since the 
f^?''?iSS% 

 Represented; Program Emphasizes New, Stronger Coordination  "Outposts," and University; Follow-up By Members Essential. 
meeting, is any good indication, the gathering achieved its purpose. Much was achieved on Nov. 29 and 30 at Notre Dame, and much more, it is expected, will be accomplished in the ensuing year as the result of the meeting. It is hoped that, progress warranting, the presi­dents' meeting can be made an annual affair. 
The Club representatives registered in the Alumni Office on Friday morning, Nov. 29, and were assigned to quarters, familiar to many, in the former Carroll Hall doHnitories. The first official meet­ing was in the form of a luncheon in the University Dining Hall at 1 p.m., where Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, president, was the chief speaker. Thom­as S. McCabe, Chicago, led the discus­sion and Thomas F. Byrne, president of the Association, presided. 
The well-known C. David Rex. of the Bagby Photo Co., South Bend, presidea at the picture-taking on the Library steps immediately afterward. Principal sessions, aside from the meals, were held in the auditorium of the Law Building and there Tom Byrne, president, John 
T. Balfe, a director, and Herbert E. Jones, business manager of athletics, spoke on Friday afternoon. Albert J. Ravarino, St. Louis, Eugene S. Blish, Denver, and George C. Howard, Jr., Washington, D. C, led the discussions. Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C, execu­tive assistant to the president and direc­tor of alumni affairs, presided. 
The Friday program closed with din­ner at 6:30. There, Governor Harry F. Kelly, a director, summarized much of the day's activity and discussion, in an ardent appeal to the Clubs to serve as the strategic "outposts" of the Univer­sity in all matters pertaining to Uni­versity interests. 
Friday evening the Club representa­tives were guests of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley at the pre­game smoker in the Oliver Hotel, South Bend. The final official session of the week-end was conducted by President Byrne "on Saturday morning, with Vice-President E. Bradley Bailey and Direc­tor Kelly emphasizing the need for well rounded progrrams and well-defined ob­jectives in all the Clubs. Methods of achieving these aims were presented from the floor and discussed. 
On Saturday noon the Club represen­tatives were guests of Father John Cav-
In the Alumni Office. From left: Ed Boner <°i4 George Monis, Detroit- Al RaraiiBo. SL Lonia; Wedter Flemiag. DonoK Hn ^ Blimt Boston: Bob Klaiber. Harrisburg; Conroy Scoggins, Houston; Tom Van Aarla. Soginaw; Ftwak BeiriaBd. Itempliia. 
nanaugh at a buffet luncheon in the Din­ing Hall and were subsequently guests at the Southern California football game, where real "California weather," transferred to northern Indiana for the day, warmed the impressive play of the National Champions of 1946. 
One of the most important features of the week-end, from the standpoint of future development of the Clubs through organized channels, was the presenta­tion for the first time of a tentative Manual of Club Operations. Written by the Alumni Office, and intended to cover all basic phases of Club procedure, the Manual will, upon final adoption, provide many of the answers to many of the questions that have been asked, and will be asked, by changing Club o35cers. It should be emphasized that the Manual is, for the present, only in tentative form. Club presidents will, of course, be showing it to their members and sug­gestions for its improvement, from any and all, are wanted and welcome. 
For the special benefit of all those attending the week-end sessions, a sum­mary of talks and discussions was imme­diately prepared by the Alumni Office, and mailed. In the conviction that this summary should interest and benefit all members of the Alumni Association, the ALUMNUS is presenting it here. Read it, study it, and then pass along, your re­actions to your president. 
A final suggestion in re the history-making meeting: don't let your president carry the ball alone. He was, we think, pleased, impressed and reactivated (if necessary) by the week-end. But he sore­ly needs your interest and your active help, if your club is to get out of the meeting any lasting good. How about calling him up, right now? 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, in his opening address outlined the major 

Bill Dreux, New Orleans, has the floor ot the Saturday morning sessicn. 
problems of the University and the part alumni can play in solving them. 
Enrollment — Whether enrollment is taxing capacity or is low, alumni inter­est is vital to the selection of the best boys from a community. The University has to recognize problems of veteran priority, class and departmental quotas, etc., but the Notre Dame family spirit and alumni interest will always be im­portant. 
Endo-vvment — Notre Dame qeeds, to insure progress and maintain a proper position in the leading American univer­sity group, a much greater endowment. Present modest estimates to permit Notre Dame to realize opportunities now apparent, are between .?25,000,000 and $50,000,000. 
Alumni, particularly Local (Hubs, can do much to realize this program by in­teresting friends of Notre Dame, inter­ested in the University, or in higher edu­cation, or in preservation of fundamen­tal principles of religious and civic life. 
(Note: In connection with the above, the paragraph in the Manual which out­lines the Publicity and Public Relations Committee can be utilized directly.) 

President Thomas F. Byrne empha­sized in his address the spiritual privi­leges and obligations of the Notre Dame man. He summarized a pattern for liv­ing based on the answers to the ques­tions (a) Would Christ be welcome in our home? (b) Would Christ be welcome in our office? (c) Would Christ be wel­come in our social life? Much of the pur­pose of the broadening of the alumni program deals with factors necessary to the right answers to those questions. 
(Note: The Manual section on the Committee on Religion and Citizenship implements the Club's programs in this direction.) 
John T. Balfe pointed out some of the essentials of Club organization: (a) regularity of meeting (b) phone book listing for ready contact (c) regular minutes and agenda available before meetings (d).prepared program for en­tire year with committees named (e) reception committee for full acquaint­ance (f) dues. 
Director Balfe also stressed the im­portance of placement programs, giving helpful case histories of his long exper­ience in handling Notre Dame place­ment. 
(Note: The entire Club Manual should be a guide to Club organization and 
•procedure. The section on job counseling, written by William R. Dooley, is a most careful treatment of the possibilities of the Club in this vital field.) 
Herbert E. Jones outlined in a very effective way the problems of the ath­letic department, especially the distribu­tion of football tickets. The problem of supplying Club blocks, of supplying in­dividual Club members, of supplying the general alumni, of supplying the long­standing friends of Notre Dame, of cov­
The Friday luncheon. From left (facing camera). Governor Kelly. Tom (F.) Byrne,  ering the  University's  interests,  in  the  
Father John Cavanaugh, Father John Murphy  and Vic Lemmer, Ironwood, Mich.  face of a  rigid  limitation of tickets,  was  
Back to  camera,  Vince De Coursey (left), Kansas City, and Ed Simonich, Butte.  well covered.  

Coast to coast. Frank Milbauer (left). New Jeisey. shakes hands with Paul Glass, Los Angeles, as Barney Macnab, Portland. Ore., looks on. 
Jones, supported by many Clubs, in­

cluding New York and Chicago, was 
against Clubs going into the ticket busi­
ness. On the other hand, Washington 
and Rhode Island, Baltimore, and sever­
al other Clubs, made good points on 
their need for blocks to meet local con­
ditions in the University's interest. 
Scalpers, personal use of tickets, spe­

cial trains, etc., were treated. Jones' 
recommendations included mailing of 
alumni applications only to alumni who 
would be on the preferred list; mailing 
of alumni applications between July 1 
and opening of public sale, permitting 
advance sale to alumni. 
The question of extending preference 

to contributors only was discussed. Some 
limitation was necessary. The fact that 
the amount of the contribution did not 
• affect the preference seemed to be ade­quate answer to the argument that this method was not democratic. 
The summary of the discussion seems to be that the athletic department is willing to cooperate with the alumni and with the Clubs in any way which will not jeopardize the interests of the Uni­versity. 
Governor Harry Kelly, at the Friday dinner, summarized in a very inspiring way the need for the Local Clubs, and the opportunity of these Clubs, to serve as outposts, of the University, to be the channels through which the problems and needs of the University can be translated to the alumni and to the pub­
lic. And he stressed the fact that they can in turn be the channels through which the answers to many of these • problems can be brought to the Univer­sity. This is particularly" true, he said, in carrying out Father Cavanaugh's suggestion of enlisting the Clubs as agents in finding and contacting and so­liciting financial support for Notre Dame through wealthy friends, corpor­ations, foundations, etc. 
On Saturday morning, the Board members summarized problems for the Clubs and programs to meet them. Uni­formity of Club ofiicer terms was stressed as a step toward effective an­nual programs. The Club Presidents voted to have the elections as the Clubs wish, but to have the ofiicers take oflSce on Universal Notre Dame Night. A sur­vey of meetings, average attendance, dues, mailing lists, etc., was made 
Casey Krajewski (left). Dubuque, Iowa, and John Millott, Sandusky, Ohio, look over the weekend decorations on Zahm Hall. 
Fred Wognar. nEo. O. registwa as (from left) Gea* BKah. DenTwr. John dand­er. SGhraukee. and Tom (C)- Byia*. CleTeland. wait their fniB. 
by Vice-President Bailey. Bailey also stressed that the Clubs are to be the driving force for Notre Dame. Small groups, starting with five or six men, can launch the whole program, step by step, he said, spreading the work as they sell other members. He advised that other national and local organizations be scouted for ideas of operation. He suggested a women's auxiliary (which several Qnbs, Rhode Island and the Twin Cities especially, have utilized well). He urged contacts between Club Presidents themselves. And he pointed out the very vital fact that the National Board cannot be all-wise and detailed in its directives, but must itself depend on other agencies, such as the Clubs, for ideas and programs. He also stressed the importance of speakers from the Uni­versity appearing before the Clubs, in­cluding the importance of the Alumni ()ifice knowing of these possible speakers well in advance and arranging their visits to the Clubs in ample time. 
Governor Kelly repeated two major objectives that the Clubs should adopt immediately, upon which tangible re­ports can be made within the year ahead —(a) the securing of more contributing members for the national Association and (b) the securing of contributions from non-alumni to the University's en­dowment. A statement of these needs is to be prepared and sent to the Clubs to aid in this work. 
The suggestions of the Club Presi­dents were too numerous and detailed to repeat here. But they were noted, were most constructive and will be re­flected in the cooperation of the ITniver­sity and the Alumni Association in the months ahead. It was agreed that, prog­ress in the ensuing year warranting, the Club Presidents Conference should .he an annua] event. 
ing as flight operations oflScer of a Lib­

FOR GOD. COUNTRY, NOTRE DAME erator bomber group in China. His ship 
was named Yield II. 



IN GLORY EVERLASTING 
JOHN C. METCALF, '37, Duluth, 
Minn., was killed on Dec 15,1944, while 
en route to Japan as a prisoner of war 
of the Japanese. 
John had been held captive on Bataan and Corregidor prior to being placed on a transport at Manila which was bound for Japan. This ship, which bore no mark to indicate that it was carrying prison­ers of war, was bombed and sunk off Olongapo, Subic Bay, Philippine Islands, with heavy loss of life. The survivors were recaptured and placed aboard an­other Japanese ship, which was also bombed. In one or the other bombings, John was killed. 
He is survived by his wife, his par­ents and a sister. 
LT. (JG) ROBERT T. BROWNE, '38, Peoria, 111., previously reported as missing in action since Oct. 25, 1944, has since December, 1945, been presumed to be dead by the Navy Department. 
Bob entered the Navy in July of 1942, immediately after completing his medi­cal studies at the University of Illinois. He served at Great Lakes Naval Train­ing Station, in San Diego and at the University of Illinois before being or­dered to duty on the USS Johnston. 
Bob was awarded the Navy Cross, the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart. His citation accompanying the Navy Cross read in part as follows: 
••• •«•-• 
r 
Bob Browne Jobn Metcctif 
". . . for extraordinary heroism while attached to the USS Johnston, in action against the enemy Japanese forces off the Island of Samar during the second battle of the Philippines. Acting with cool initiative when the abandon ship order was given, Lt. Browne remained on board the Johnston supplying injured men with life jackets, assisting to evac­uate them from the stricken vessel and administerinig to the wounded in the face of terrific salvos from hostile gun-bat­teries." It was during this loyal display of devotion to duty that Bob lost his life. 
He is survived by a brother, William J., '37, and several uncles and aunts. His mother died on Aug. 1, 1945, and his father in November, 1938. 
MARLEAU J. CEAGIN, ex. '42, of Las Vegas, Nev., having been reported as missing in action since Oct. 25, 1944, was declared dead as of that date. 
Marleau Cragin Albert Fensel 
Marleau, leaving Notre Dame in his senior year, enlisted in the U. S. Naval Reserve as a photographer's mate at Reno, Nev., on Oct. 22, 1942. For the next year he received his photographic training and was then assigned to the USS St. Lo (ex USS Midway) for Pa­cific duty. 
He participated as an aerial photog­rapher in the Mariannas, Saipan, Guam and Tinian campaigns before entering the heavy fighting against powerful units of the Japanese Fleet during the battle off Samar, Philippine Islands, during October, 1944. It was during this engagement that Marleau's ship was hit and sunk by a Jap suicide plane. 
He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Ernest W. Cragin, of Las Vegas. 
LT. ALBERT J. FENSEL, ex. '42, Bradford, Pa., previously reported as missing in action on Aug. 12, 1943, has been presumed by the War Department to be dead according to word recently reaching the Alumni Office. 
Albert went down with his flying for­tress, Vicki (named after his mother), presumably over the Messina Straits in the North African area after completing a mission over Rome. He had arrived in Africa on June 1, 1943, and was decor­ated shortly thereafter with the Air Medal and an Oak Leaf Cluster. 
Albert is survived by his parents, a sister and four brothers, one of whom, a twin. Major Francis Fensd, '40, received the Disting:uished Flying Cross, the Air Medal and the Bronze Star while serv-
LT. HOWARD K. PETSCHEL, ex. '42, St. Paul, Minn., reported as missihg in action on Mar. 3, 1942, was three months later officially declared to have been killed in action according to word recently received in the Alumni Office. 
Howie had promise of a brilliant ath­letic career, dating from high school days. In his last spring practice at Notre Dame he was named for two awards of excellence at his position as an end on the football team. 
Howie enlisted in the Army Air Corps in September, 1940. After brief training periods at Lincoln, Nebr. and Randolph Field, Tex., he received his wings on April 25, 1941. In September of that year he married Kathleen Cashill at Ft. Douglas Chapel, Utah. 
Howie left the States under sealed orders aboard the USS Republic. It is presumed that he was on Java, evacuat­ing persons destined for Australia, when his plane was shot up on Mar. 3, 1942. He is survived by his wife, a son, How­ard, Jr., his parents, a brother and three sisters. 
JOHN J. McKEON, '43, Philadelphia, died Oct. 18 of an illness which resulted from wounds received in Germany while he was a member of the Army. He was 25. 
John enlisted in the Army after his graduation from Notre Dame and was assigned to a medical battalion. He was 
Hbwia Petsdiel lolm McEeon 
with the 44th Division during its at­tachment to the Seventh Army and was wounded shortly after his unit entered Germany. 
After hospitalization in England and Walter Reed General Hospital in Wash­ington, John was discharged and en­tered law school at the University of Pennsylvania. A recurrence of the ill­ness caused him to enter the hospital two weeks prior to his death. 
On Sept. 22, John was married to Anna Helen Bloh. His parents, Mr. and Mrs. Michael J. McKeon, also survive. 

Worthwhile Reading: How to Do It 
{Ed. Note: It has always been an objective of the Alumni Association to keep the graduation of an alum-mis from becoming an intellectual dead end. In the following article, based on the war's end and the hope of a peace which will permit a return to pursuits of reason, the ALUMNUS believes that it offers its readers one of the finest and most compre­hensive plans for continuing intellec­tual life we have seen, certainly in such summary and clear form. The article by Prof. Henry C. F. Staun­ton, professor of English for 20 years at Notre Dame, is an intellec­
• tual experience in itself. Its use as a program by alumni promises un­limited development.) 

We are all lazy, and we all love pleas­ure. Both of these imperfections have contributed largely to human progress. Our modern inventions are labor-saving devices, while no small proportion of these inventions have directly or in­directly increased the world's pleasure in living. But the greatest pleasure in living is to know, and the training of the mind has more to do with civilization than any'number of gadgets. 
How to Avoid Wasted Houis 

Training of the mind should not cease at our graduation. Of this we are all aware, but here love of pleasure and laziness cease to be a help and become a hindrance. The average man all but wastes his hours of leisure. Golf, bridge, dancing, and so-called "resting" (the best rest is a change of occupation) eat' up our hours. We have no time for read­ing, and we still the protests of our conscience by assiduous study of maga­zines, of newspapers, and of the comics. 
Yet real reading is a glorious ad­venture, and by no means a crucifixion. An easy chair contents the tired body, while the desire for pleasure is far more satisfied by mental activity than by all the modem devices to kill our time. We learn a great deal from the world about us, but Reading is the greatest enlarger of the mind and the greatest director of the growth of the soul. The most truly educated man is he who has read widely and wisely, and with few exceptions the world's great leaders have been great readers. So far all thinking men will agree, but the practical application of 

By HENRY C F. STAUNTON 
Professor of English 

the precept offers in these busy times a problem to maiiy. It is in the hope of offering a practical solution to this prob­lem that the present article sees the light. 
What to Bead and How to Bead? 
What to read? and how to read? In 

dealing with these questions there are errors which we often make. Some spend their reading time in becoming more and more conversant with their business, in devouring trade journals, stock quotations, or the latest book in their field of work. The result is not mental enlargement, but a one-track type of mind. Some keep up with all the latest "best sellers;" but ninety-nine per­cent of the best sellers of today are the pulp paper of tomorrow, and thus the reader is always behind the times. Some harrow their souls by plodding patiently through a list of the "Thousand Best Books of the Ages." But though these books have stood the test of time; al­though they are undeniably great; the reading of them because of their very . greatness presupposes, not produces, the educated mind. "Pleasure" here is a bea­con; as your mind grows, more and more of these books will give you pleasure; but books are not medicine but food, and to i:ead the greatest book without pleas­ure will produce little lasting result. It is well to taste all such books, but if any are not to your taste, do not finish the book. There is no law, human or divine, which requires that we read from cover 
to cover. 
While well-planned reading gives pleasure, all pleasurable reading is not well planned. Without saying again what many have said before it is impossible to point the way. The educated man must "see life steadily and see it whole." He must be a well-rounded man, to whom "nothing human is foreign." Instead of reading a scrap here and there, "know­ing less and less about more and more;" instead of concentrating on a favorite field, "knowing more and more about less and less;" he must aim from the start to know more and more about more and more. He must be a well informed man, not only to hold his own in any conversation and on any subject (this does not need an expert) but to secure the satisfaction which comes from "en­largement of the mind." And all this be­ing so, he must plan his reading to in­clude each of the five fields of knowledg^e —^human life, history,' science^ religion, and art 
Let us briefly discuss these fields be­fore turning to ways and means. Of all fields of knowledge the most interesting, and (excepting religion) the most worth­while, is the understanding of our fel­low men. In our business relations and social affairs we meet many women and men. Our minds grow by living and by contact with life; and by "contact" we mean not merely a "hi'ya," or saying "three spades" at a game of cards, but we mean shrewd judgment of character, tastes, and attainment, and we mean using the knowledge thus gained to de­velop our own personality and conduct. Life is the great educator. But we come into contact with life far more through wise reading than through personal friendships. For men do not show dearly all that is in them, even to their closest friends, and much of our social time is spent in discussing the . weather and sports. In good reading we hold, as it were, the world at arms' length and judge it in true perspective. In a-novel we meet twenty new characters while on the streets we are meeting on^ and if the writer knows human life more deeply than we—and that is his business—we approach a judgment unbiased by per­sonal motives of friendship or dislike. The novel or biography, which tells what men are (not. the autobiography, which seldom is frank)rJs an essential element of any course of reading and, remember­ing that human nature is the only un­changeable factor in a constantly chang­ing world, we will do well to choose.our novel not by the recent advertisement, but by the {lermanent approval of all classes of men shown by a long persis­tence in print. 
A Study oi th* Manaa. 

Next to the novel, which creates and analyses typical human beings, and pre­sents their mutual actions.and r^Mtions, comes history, which deals with the ac­tions and reactions of men in the mass. Here, while the latest history is not' al­ways the' best?ihe'irioderii meithod, rare among older historians, is what we want. History used to be written as a chronide of dates and events. Since our purpose is the study of man, the modem history. 
e 
which investigates the causes and re­sults of wide-spread movements, is bet­ter. The knowledge of world-history is very fragmentary in numberless other­wise well informed men. To start with a reasonably thorough understanding of the mass psychology of American na­tions, and to widen this field of view till we know and understand all peoples, ancient and modem, is a project which will yield rich returns. But because base­less judgments in a history are less easy to detect than faulty character work in a novel, it is well in choosing this class of books to avoid such travesties of his­tory as those of Gibbon, or H. G. Wells, by relying on the judgment of a well versed scholar in whom we trust. 
Know Something oi Every Major Science 
Science needs no recommendation to the averagre man. The present age is the Age of Science, and most readers keenly and avidly follow its progress. Since sci­entific methods and theories are con­stantly changing, no books but the latest should here find place in our reading. Here, however, as elsewhere, the xm­cautious reader is overly apt to specialize in the more spectacular aspects. It is well to know something of every major 

•science, and to that end to choose a subject with which we are not familiar, rather than one which we already under­stand. The educative value of science, therefore, lies in the growing power to relate one science to another, to judge their relative value, and their impor­tance as factors in the progress of man. Choose "popular" books, written how­ever by one who knows; the study of a text-book of chemistry or physics is not "reading" in the sense in which we are using the word. 
We come now to the Arts. These are the most neglected of all departments of knowledge. Men who pride themselves in being widely informed not infrequent­ly know little or nothing about archi­tecture, engineering, music, or painting. Yet how much of our conveniences lies in forming correct judgments of taste! The recent idea (it is rather a "throw­back" than modem) that taste is a wholly private and personal matter; that it knows no rule; that lack of originality is the only artistic sin; flows really from ignorance and lack of taste, and not from, any discovery of new standards or 
laws..The cultured man must recognize the beauty as well as the usefulness of the unspoUed world. The literature of art is abundant; and here again the reader must not be provincial—^he will find in the study of Chinese architecture, painting, and sculpture as much interest as in the somewhat stagnant traditions of our western culture. Here also the judgment of a good critic is useful in 
choosing books. If you know no such critic beware of books in which "stand­ards" means the absence of standards, and let common-sense have its way. Many travel books are really interesting and useful discourses on "art." 

It is probably due to "otherworldli­ness" in many religious writers that Re­ligion has the reputation of being "dry." For certainly Religion is the most im­portant subject in the world. Many men claim to know their religion, but make a sorry showing when asked to defend it. And not only its eternal values, but its practical value is great. Is not much of the materialism and despair in the world due not to willful blindness but to sheer "lack of time" to keep a proper hold on the eternal aspects of life? By all means, a book of religion in one of these many aspects! The question of just what book to choose here is an extremely personal question. Some may have al­
ways intended to read the Bible, or at least the New Testament, but have never had time. Others may prefer to read what Catholic writers have gleaned from the Bible and from Tradition—Theology, if well written, is no dull subject. Books of devotional reading, or the Lives of the Saints, or anything in short which will remind the reader that he has a soul, and help him to deal with it, will contribute to make him that well-round­ed man which he hopes to be. And with 
this our "daily bookshelf" is complete. 
And now for the method. In some con­venient place—an end table, a corner of your bookcase, or (best) a rack attached to your reading chair—^place and always keep one book of each Class. Your pub­lic library, or better that of the nearest college, will serve as your source of sup­ply. It is seldom well to buy a book un­less you intend to consult it again and again. 
Bead Every Day A very essential part of our plan, and one which will lose its apparent difiiculty as soon as you put it into practice, is that some pages or chapters of EACH of these books should be read every day. When you have a few minutes to read, take down that one of the five which ap­peals to your mood. (If you haven't any mood, create one; you are the captain of your soul.) Read not less than a page, better still a chapter or two, but with an eye to the available time. For before you retire you should have read in all five of your books. If you have done so, and still have time, turn back to that book which pleased you most, and read as far as you may. But the next day if in similar' case turn back to one of the others. Keep your mental develop­ment in all directions even, and not lop­sided. 
If you do not like a chosen book, if it is "too tough reading" or if it is poorly written, you should not read it through. 
• Never read a book through which is not in some way enlarging your mind. There are too many other books which you ought to read, and which you will like to read. But in all such cases replace the rejected book by a book on as nearly as possible the same subject as well as class. If that fails to interest, get an­other, again on the same subject,- and use more care in making your choice. There is an interesting book on any sub­ject in the world on which more than a score of books are extant. Be tough with yourself: learn something about each subject you have chosen (say Japanese art) before you turn to "Wild Animals of the West." If you do not follow this rule your reading will follow the line of more pleasure and less resistance, into more and more inane and profitless fields. 
You will not, of course, be able to fin­ish all of your books at the same time. Books are of very unequal length. But when any book is finished, .replace it at once by another book of the same gen­eral class, as listed above. If your whim urges you to add another field—^though there are few books of literature which will not fall into one of the five classes— there is no reason why you should not attempt six. But this you will find a bit cumbersome, just as four is not all-sided. Try the five book plan in the be­ginning, at least. 
Bead Jin Hour and a Quarter a Day 

There are those who will say that such a plan of reading leaves no time to go over all the magazines. Be of good cheer; no one "goes over all the magazines." The writer of this article, before he adopted this plan, subscribed to no less than thirty-one magazines! not counting those which reached him gratis. He wasted much time in running through most of the magazines to be sure there was nothing of value in them. But he soon realized that few mag^azines could give him anything which he could not better, and with more pleasure, read in a book. He now subscribes to six only, and finds these more than sufiicient. 
The question will occur to the minds of all: How much time must I spend to profit from the plan? This depends on the reader. To secure results worth hav­ing, an hour and a quarter a day should be sufiSeient Fifteen minutes of regular reading on any subject, day in and day out, will bring surprising results as the days roll by. For most men, this rule will leave plenty of time for other affairs. No maximum estimate is possible The novel is the disturbing factor; often a good novel wiU so engross the reader 
(Continued on Page 19) 

Preaent for the meetings on OcL 4-5 of the Univer^ty's Advisory Conndl for Sciottc* and WHO. MR tO' IqPK IB the front row: William P. FeeleT. 'OG, president Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co^ Hav. Ibba I. dent of Notre Dame: Peter C Beilly. president. Beilly Tar and Chemical Corpj Harold S. Vane*. el A* bawd. Surf*­baker Corp.; BeT. Iliomas A. Steiner. CS.C '99. provindaL Congregation of Hbty Greaa. 
Back row: J. Arthur Haley. '26. director of public relations; Dean Karl E. Schoenherr of tho Collaao oi Eo^Boariag: Bar. loka 
J. Burice. C.S.C '32. business managen Bev. Bobert H. Sweeney. CS.C '30. azacntiTe airistont to ih* proaktont' Dr. HBBiaM Colcott assistant director, organic chemical division. E. L duPont de Nemours Co; Arthur J. Sdmutt, ] lie Corpj Earle C. Smith, chief metcdiurgist Bepublic Steel Corp.; Edgor Kbbok. "OS, praddani,. NahMd BruaJtuaUaj Co: L Budd. president Public Service Company of Northern Illinois; William K. Hantiaon, vicci-psaaidont AoMdcon Talaphena and Telegraph Co.: Bev. Philip S. Moore. C.S.C.. '24. dean of the Graduate School; Lalcmd Stanford, vira praaidant Siadab Oil Ca; Bev. Howard Kenna. CS.C. '26. director of studies; Dean Lawrence H. Baldinger. '31. of tha CoUaga el! 

Research Program Enlarged, CoimGdl Told 
University's Advisory Group Hears of Advances in Qiemistry; . ' Physics, Metallurgy and Bacteriolosy; New Work Planned; Need for Larger Endowment is Emphasized by Father Cavanaugh. 
Notre Dame greatly increased its re­search in chemistry, physics and metal­lurgy during the past year, despite lim­ited funds, the Eev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, president, reported to the Uni­versity's Advisory Council for Science and Engineering, which had its annual two-day meeting on Oct. 4 and 5 at Notre Dame. 
The Council, composed of 14 of the nation's outstanding industrialists and industrial engineers, was established last year to assure effective cooperation between Notre Dame and industry. Har­old S. Vance, chairman of the board of Studebaker Corporation, presided at the meeting. 
Substantial incresases in research and technical personnel at the Labora­tories of Bacteriology (Lobund) at Notre Dame also were made this year. Father Cavanaugh told the Council. The University, he added, is planning a large scale laboratory to expand important studies in germ-free techniques initiated at Notre Dame in 1930, and continued there ever since. 
Father Cavanaugh also revealed that a Department of Engineering Mechanics was established at Notre Dame. This new department, he declared,- "will be the hub or nucleus of development in research and advanced instruction in engineering at the University." 
Notre Dame likewise has under con­sideration a proposal to incorporate a program of electro-acoustics (sound de­tection and elimination) in the engineer­ing curriculum, he declared. This will require a special research laboratory. Other immediate engineering needs of the University, he said, were an Engi­neering Mechanics laboratory, a boiler research laboratory and a hydraulic lab­oratory, all three together costing be­tween ?50,000 and $60,000. 
Emphasizing that with each new proj­ect, Notre Dame assumes a permanent responsibility towards faculty, research staff, and upkeep of buildings and equip­ment. Father Cavanaugh said that the University did not feel it was a -wiae financitd fd&ey to expand ami devdop without incrwuring its endowment. 
"This is anj^iasized for ns," he point­ed out, "by the fact that adenee and engineering are .not eo^extensive with the Univeisity's needs and that tbere are other Important fields in which we must foster reaeaich and advanced in­struction." 
In this respect, he dted the recent founding at Notre Daine, of a Hediaeyal Institute for research in mediaeval cul­ture and history, which will be import-' ant to many departmento in the College of Arts and Letters. 
"Notre Dame," Father Cavanan^ said, "hag. the smallest .endcwaieutiot any large university in-the eovntry. It is pitifolJIy small in; emnpariaon inth other sehoob of similar size^ and is even doubled and tripled by many, smaller-in­stitutions. Our prdUem then is franUy one of attracting endowment," .. 
Ao/te 3bame £avAd> Wartime Alumni Board Concludes Work 
THE WOBLD OF IDELLA MAY, by Richard SulliTan, New York: Doubleday, 1946. 
Longer and more fully developed than either of his other two books, more sharp and decisive in its total effect, this new novel by Kichard Sullivan, '30, associate professor of English at Notre Dame, is distinguished by its deft craftsmanship, its vital substance and meaning, and its uncompromising purpose. 
The story reveals two contradictory sets of values, two entirely different planes of life and meaning. The 'Svorld" of Idella May is the illusory product of an imagination ruled by a wishful and willful individualism, and as such it is a fearful symptom of much of our con­temporary illness. In striking contrast to Idella May's illusions, the "world" of her husband transcends whatever is blind and egocentric in nature. Confront­ed with an apparently hopeless impasse in his relations with his wife, Tom Lo­gan manages to hold on to his integrity as a man and a husband, in spite of the fact that he is only an ordinary fel­low with an ordinary quantity of natural We present here, "for the record," the Alumni Board which this month concludes strength and virtue. Though he is no its official work in behalf of the UniTersitr '"^ ^ * association. The picture was hero and no saint, he possesses inner taken in Cleveland in September. Seated. left to right, are Governor Harry F. Kelly: spiritual resources of which he is him­Rev. John J. Caronaugh, C. S. C, president of the University; Thomas F. Byrne, presi­self hardly aware. He exercises a degree dent of the Association: James E. Armstrong. Standing are Vice-President Gerald of virtue and courage greater than his Ashe; John T. Higgins: William B. Dooley: John T. Balie: Rev. M. L. Moiicarty and own character seems capable of provid­Vice-President E. Bradley Bailey. The inset below contains MV^lliom J. Mooney, who, ing because he belongs to a "world" that though he was in Cleveland for the meeting, wen obsent when this^ picture was taken. 

is not centered in himself, a world that is wiser and stronger than anything in his own nature It is his background of relig^ious values, his Christian inherit­and charity to save his mind and heart MARITAIN COMING TO N.D. 

ance, that finally checks his sense of 
from despair and to enable him to leave 

personal outrage, humbling and strength­Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, director of the 
room in his life, with a patience that 

ening him with just enough tolerance Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame, an­
surprises his friends, for a wife that 
nounced recently that Dr. Jacques Mari-
is entirely unworthy of his devotion. It 
tain, brilliant philosopher and French 
is his Catholic faith which, weak as it 
ambassador to the Holy See, will be a 
may seem at times, points the only path 
guest lecturer on the staff of the Mediae­
out of misery and darkness, enobling 
val Institute at Notre Dame after the 
and refining his own natural generosity 
conclusion of his diplomatic duties. He 
^v^tK aliriost' imperceptible lights and 
will remain at the Holy See as long as 
graces, and with no blight of self-
the best interests of France require him 
righteous heroics or spiritual pride. It 
to do so. 
is this background of grace and faith which gives depth and significance to Mr. Sullivan's relentless portrayal of BOB BIORDAN DIES 
Idella May and all the arrogance and 

unreality which characterize her "world." CoL Bobert B. Biordan, '24, for 
Here is a novel skilful in design and mony years registrar of the Univer­
execution and thoroughly Catholic in its nty. died on Dec. 4 at Fort Dix, 
purpose. Nothing is overplayed. There K. J., after a long illness. He is 
is no exploitation of sentiment or emo­

survived by his wife ond nine tion. Neither is there any pious didactic­
children, all of South Bend. The 
two oldest children are students at 
ism. Yet the meaning remains uncom­
Notre Dame. A complete obituary 
promisingly clear because it is embodied 
on Bob will appear in the next is­
organically in the vital substance of 
sue of the ALUMNUS. 

the novel. Hichard Sullivan (Rev.) Leo. L. Ward, CS.C. 

Byrne Is Elected Lay Trustee 
Alumnus Chosen at Board Meeting on Nov. 15-16; Fills Stanford Vacancy 
Members of the Associate Board of 

Lay Trustees of the University gathered 
on the campus Nov. 15 and 16, for the 
first time since Rev. John J. Cavanaugh's 
election as president of the University. 
The members of the board discussed 

with Father Cavanaugh plans and poli­
cies for the three-year period of his 
presidency. 
To fill the vacancy on the Associate Board of Lay Trustees caused by the death last spring of Grattan T. Stanford, '04, Father Cavanaugh announced that Joe^h M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, N. J., vice-chairman of the Port Authority of New York and prominent alumnus, had been elected to the board. 
Commissioner Byrne, who is widely known in financial, insurance and phil­antrophic circles, follows in the foot­steps of his father, the late Joseph M. Byrne, New York financier, who served on the first Associate Board of Lay Trustees of Notre Dame, fi'om 1S)21 to the time of his death in 1924. 
Bom in Newark, N. J., on Oct. 1, 1892, Commissioner Byrne was educated at Newark Academy and at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, where he was a member of the class of 1915. 
Commissioner Byrne is president of the Joseph M. Byrne Company, stock­brokers, and president of the Merchants and Manufacturers Insurance Company, Newark. He was named commissioner of the New York Port Authority in 1934, and has been vice-chairman since Feb­ruary, 1945. 
From 1937 to 1941 he also was director of parks and public property for the city of Newark, and from 1941 to 1945 director of public works thera He served in the New Jersey state Legislature in 1932 to 1933. 
The new trustee has been a member of the board of managers of the Frank­lin Savings Institute since 1934. He also is a director of the New York Fire In­surance Company and the American Equitable Assurance Company, a mem­ber of the advisory board of John Mar­shall College, Jersey City, N. J., a trus­tee of the Newark College of Engrineer­ing and a trustee of Essex Troop, one of the oldest military organizations in the U. S. 
He is a past member of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association. Married on May 1, 1918 to Miss Marie Keller, Commissioner Byrne is the father of five children, one of whom, Joseph M Byrne, III, is a student at Notre Dame. 
Joseph M. Byrne, Jr.. '15 
FIRST NIEUWLAND LEQURES 

Dr. W. S. Calcott, of the du Pont or­ganization, internationally distinguished chemist, delivered the first in an annual series of Julius A. Nieuwland Memorial Lectures at the University of Notre Dame on Nov. 11, 13 and 15. 
The Nieuwland Memorial Lectures, to be given annually by outstanding men in the field of chemistry.and botany, were established by the University to honor the memorjs of Father Julius A. Nieuw­land, C.S.C, a pioneer in chemical re­actions. Father Nieuwland, who died in 1936, also was an authority in the field of botany. 
Dr. Calcott, author of numerous tech­nical articles and co-author of a book on the corrosion of metals, has been coming to Notre Dame regularly since 1926. Early visits from 1926 to 1931 were for conferences with Father Nieuw­land on the priest's work in acetylene, used in the making of synthetic rubber. 
Father Nieuwland, who also contribut­ed valuable work toward the deadly mil­itary Lewisite gas, founded the Midland Naturalist, botanical publication at the University, and provided the basis for the University's botanical library, which comprises 100,000 volumes. 
ELECTiD TO ACADEMY 
Dr Yves Simon, professor of philos­

ophy at Notre Dam^ has been elected a 
member of the Pontifical. Roman Aca­
demy of St. Thomas Aquinas, which is 
composed of the outstanding Catholic 
philosophers of the world.' 
Dr. Simon was elected to the Acadony 

in recognition of his distinguished work 
in the field of Catholic philosophy. A 
native of Cherbourg, France, he has been 
a member of the faculty at Notre Dame 
since 1938. 
Dr. Simon came to Notre Dame from 

the Catholic University of lille, France, 
where he tuaght philosophy Irom. 1930 
to 1938. He received a Licence es Let­
tres from the- University of Paris in 
1922, a Diplome d'EtudesSaperieures de 
Philosophie in 1923, a Certificat d'Etudes 
physiques, chimiques et sciences naturel­
les in 1927, and a doctor's :d^rree in phil­
osophy from the Catholic University of 
Paris in 1934. 
ON WAR DEPARTMENT BOARlD 

Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, presi­dent of the University, has been appoint­ed to a four-man Civilian Advisory Board to advise the War Department on selecting and training military personneL 
Other members of the board are James 

S. Adams, president of Standard Brands; Amon G. Carter, publisher of the Fort Worth (Texas) Star-Telegram; and Paul 
H. GriflBth, national commander of the American Legion. 
The Board conferred in mid-December in Washington with Major General W. 
S. Paul, director of personnel. War De­partment General Staff, and other top War Department oflScials. 
^ • • 
NEW AIR TUNNEL PLANNED 

Construction of the largest high: speed wind tunnel in the world at the Lone Star laboratories. Danger Field, Texas, was aided materially by calibration pro­cesses developed by Prof. Frank N. M. Brown, head of the Department of Aero­nautical Engineering at Notre Dame. 
Professor Brown revealed recently that Notre Dame is planning a similar supersonic air tunnel on a much smaller scale. Plans for this tunnel are in the preliminary design stage. 
TALKS ON ARGENTINE RELATIONS 
Dr. Richard Pattee, consultant in In­ternational Affairs for the National Catholic Welfare Conference and former oflBcial of the State Department, ad­dressed the student body at Notre Dame on Oct. 16. Dr. Pattee discussed rela­tions between Argentina and the United States. 

Vet Houses are Occupied 
Store, Laundry and Recreation Center Are Planned for New Community. 
The University, in an attempt to ac­commodate some 425 married students and their families, late last spring nego­tiated for surplus Prisoner of War bar­racks from Camp Weingarten, Mo. 
The move to help eliminate the housing 

problem for married students attending Notre Dame was a joint undertaking by the government and the University. The University's financial contribution amounts to $40,000, expended mostly on sewer and water mains, while the gov­ernment has assumed the costs of dis­mantling the housing, transferring them ' to this location and reconstructing them. 
Actual construction of this temporary near-campus town of IIV dwellable units, located immediately northeast of the Field House, did not begjin until June 13 of this year. 
Material shortages have somewhat hindered the progress of the reconstruc­tion of the housing units, but by Oct. Mr. and Mrs. Joe Wolsh and Joe. 31, 24 veterans and their wives and Jr^ were among the first occupants children had moved into their new homes. On Nov. 20, an additional two dozen ing^the units without furniture pay $27 married vets set-up house in the new a month, while those who rent the furn­village. The balance of the 117 will be ished units remit $33 a month. located in their new quarters around the 
Every apartment is equipped with in­first of the year. A waiting list of 163 dividual gas water heaters, assuring the families have indicated that they are families of plenty of hot water. Gas .standing by to fill vacancies caused by heaters, too, have been installed to com­graduation. 

bat the strong Indiana winter winds. Each apartment consists of two bed­Each kitchen is outfitted with modem rooms, a kitchen and bath. Vets occupy-gas ranges. 
Soon this veterans' community will boast of an auditorium and a recreation center. Also planned is a grocery store and a laundry, which will be run on a cooperative basis by the families of the community. Subscriptions will be sold for this enterprise and dividends paid the subscribers. 
The married vets have banned togeth­er in a University club, which fosters greater social activities. This fall the club held several outdoor picnics and two informal dances, which enabled the young couples to mingle and strike up new friendships. A special dinner, with entertainment, was a feature of Thanks­giving for this group. 
FUND AIDS GRADUATE STUDENTS 

Kev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, for­mer president of the University,* set aside $5,000 last spring from the 1945 Alumni Fund for the establishment of graduate fellowships in the Departments of Philosophy and Political Science. These fellowships are known as the Bishop John F. O'Hara Fellowships, in honor of the distinguished bishop of Buffalo, former president of Notre Dame. 
The fellowships, which carry a max­imum stipend of $1,000 for a school-year, have been awarded to outstanding . graduate students who are well ad­vanced toward the doctoral degree. For the 1946-47 schoolyear awards have been made to John Glanville, Donald HoUen­horst and John Morrison in the Depart­ment of Philosophy, and Louis Beltran­ena and Roger DiGioja in the Depart­ment of Political Science. 
Left, Mr. and Mrs. John Murphy fondly gaze at their new Utchen while, fight, Mr. and Bbs. I«e OniUette start putting things in shoqM. Carol Ann Shiver watdies;. 

Irish Win Eight Tie One; Acclaimed National Champions 
By RAYMOND J. DONOVAN. '42 Assistant Publicity Director 
Froak Leohy. '31 Athletic Director and Head Football Coach 

Coach Frank Leahy celebrated his return from the Navy by guiding the Irish football team to an undisputed na­tional championship, with a record of eight victories and a scoreless tie against Army's powerhouse. 
The team also copped top honors in nearly all of the AU-American teams named at the conclusion of the season. Johnny Lujack, brilliant quarterback from Connellsville, Pa., and tackle George Connor, oi Chicago, were unani­mous choices on the mjrthical elevens. John Mastrangelo, hard charging guard from Vandergrift, Pa., and George Strohmeyer, great center from McAUen, Tex., rated many second team choices, and several writers included the two on their first team. 
To strengthen their hold on the inter­collegiate championship, the Notre Dame eleven was the top team in both offensive and defensive departments throughout the nation and also made more yards rushing than any other aggregation. 
Notre Dame, rated a question-mark despite the return of 40 previous mono­gram winners from last year's team and from the service, opened the 1946 cam­paiign. with a highly-convincing 26 to 6 triumph over a great Illinois team which ultimately was to win the Big Nine Con­ference title and move on into the Kose Bowl. Emil Sitko, fleet right halfback from Fort Wayne, Ind., started the pa­rade against the lUini with a; 78-yard run to set up the first touchdown and the Irish throttled the illustrious Buddy Young, to roll to a 26 to 0 lead before an intercepted pass gave Illinois a 
touchdown in the waning minutes 
of the game. 
A game but outclassed Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh eleven invaded 
Notre Dame Stadium, on October 
5, and after sheer power on the 
ground' had worn the Pantheis 
down in the first half, the reserves 
took over to hand Pitt an over­
whelming 33 to 0 defeat in the 
home-opener for the Irish. 

Coach Cecil Isbell's Purdue Boilermakers, riddled by injuries throughout the season, hardly prov­ed a match for the high-flying Irish. No­tre Dame marched to a 26 to 0 lead at the half, and breezed to a 49 to 6 decision at the final gun. Highlight of the game from a Notre Dame point of view was the ap­pearance for the first time of Ernie Zalejski, flashy halfback from South Bend, who only a few days before had leceived his discharge from the Army. Zalejski, rated one of the best backfield prospects ever to enroll at Notre Dame, made substantial gains every time he carried the ball and would have been away for a touchdown had he not slipped and fallen when he broke into the open. 
Iowa became the last team to score on the Irish until the final contest of the season. The Hawkeyes, after griving the Notre Dame eleven a terrific strug­gle for the first part of the tilt, fum­bled repeatedly to set up early Irish scores, and finally crashed into the scor­ing column themselves when late in the game a pass interference penalty gave them the ball on the Notre Dame nine. Final score: Notre Dame 41; Iowa 6. 
Notre Dame gained revenge for the 1944 defeat and last year's tie with Navy byrolling to a 28 to 0 victory over the Middies at Baltimore. The Middies, win­ner of only one game all season, definite­ly were keyed for the battle and man­aged to hold the Irish in check better than any team previously had done. Johnny Lujack's passing, however, and the great running game of Ernie Zalej­ski, Terry Brennan, Jim Mello and com­pany, amassed enormous statistics and kept the Irish undefeated. 
Came the Army game and the "battle of the century." The contest was built up as a game between a great Notre Dame aggregation with outstanding strengfth in reserves against a good Army first team featured by Blanchard and Davis. First Army threatened, when they moved the ball twice to the Irish 20-yani line in the first half. Th^ Notre Dame line stiffened and took over.'The vast crowd of 75,000 fans in Yankee Stadium expected at any minute to see Blanchard go smashing through the line for a score; to see Davis scoot around end into pay-dirt; or to see Johnny Ln­jack, hampered by an injured ankle, send the Irish into the lead with one of his famed passes. The expected did not hap­pen. Notre Dame threatened most seri­ously when they had the ball on the f our-3^rd line with less than a yard to go for a first down, but on fourth down Gompers was thrown out of bounds inch­es short of the three-yard line. 
The remainder of the battle turned out to be a battle of the lines. Arnold Tuck­er, briUiant Aimy quarterback, throttled three Irish threats when he intercepted Lujack's passes. At the end of the game, with a 0 to 0 tie on the scoreboard, the Notre Dame eleven stUl had gained am­ple revnge for the 59-0 and 48-0 defeats of the past two years by completely stop-• ping—not only Blanchard and Davis— but the Army team for the first time in three years. 
Coach Leahy feared, after the terrific Army game, that the Irish would suffer a let-down in the game the following week against a dangerous Northwestern eleven. His fears soon were dispelled, however, when Notre Dame handed the Wildcats their worst defeat of the sea-^ son, 27 to 0, in easy fashion. 
Ernie Zalejski thrilled the crowd of more than 60,000 at New Orleans by climaxing a brilliant display of run­ning with two touchdowns as the Irish breezed to a 41 to 0 victory over the Tulane Green Wave. Tnlane, who held Alabama to a 7 to 6 margin earlier in the season, proved no match for the Notre Dame {towerhoose and the Irish 
Mr. Outside stopped at Yankee Stadium as Irishmen Bovai. Strohrheyer and Skoglund close in to halt Davis. 
reserves scored almost at will. After the game, Tulane coach Harry Frnka paid tribute to the Blue and Gold eleven by tabbing them as the "greatest ball club I have ever seen." 
Notre Bame put the clincher on un­disputed national championship claims by romping over a good Southern Cali­fornia eleven in Notre Dame Stadium, 26 to 6, in the final game of the season. A slim Texan, Coy McGee, staged one of the greatest displays of broken field running ever seen in the Stadium as he paced the Irish to victory. George Eat­terman, alternating at quarterback with Lujack, played one of his greatest games in directing all four Notre Dame touch­downs. The Notre Dame first team was scored on for the first time all season when a pass-interference ruling gave the Trojans the ball on the one-yard line. Southern California had held the mighty UCLA team, western entrant in the Rose Bowl, to a 13 to 6 victory the week before the Notre Dame game, and the Irish smashing triumph over the Trojans, coupled with Navy's stunning feat of holding Army to a 21 to 18 win, left no doubt that the Notre Dame eleven was tops in the land. 
BASKETBALL Generally, prospects for a successful basketball season at Notre Dame during the 1946-47 season are neither highly 
team, winner of 17 out of 21 games, have been lost to the Irish this season. Leo Klier, record-breaking forward, was graduated last June. The other forward, John Dee, has transferred to the Loy­ola University Law School in Chicago. Center Vince Boryla has enlisted in the Army. Guards Billy Hassett and Frank Gilhooley will be graduated in January and thus are not available for competi­tion this season. Since guard Kay Corley did not return to school this fall, only one monogram winner, forward George Katterman, is back from last year's squad. 
On the other side of the picture, how­ever, seven former monogram winners at Notre Dame have returned from the armed forces and several promising freshmen help to bolster the 1946-47 Notre Dame team. 

Ketuming monogram winners, in ad­dition to Ratterman, and the last sea­son in which they competed for Notre Dame, follow: Francis Curran, Sterling, 111., forward, 1942-43; Paul Gordon, Bal­timore, guard, 1943-44; John Hiller, East Bemstadt, Ky., forward and guard, 1941-42; John Kelly, Utica, N. Y., for­ward, 1943-44; Carl Loyd, South Bend, guard, 1943-44; John Lujack, Connells­ville. Pa., gruard, 1943-44; and Cyrines Singer, Jasper, Ind., guard, 1940-41. 
Among the most promising freshmen are Kevin O'Shea, guard candidate from San Francisco, who starred with the Alameda Coast Guard five while in serv­ice and who is ranked as the best pros­pect on the coast since Hank Luisetti; John Brennan, 6'4'' center from Bedford, Ind., who is a younger brother of Tom Brennan, who starred at Notre Dame during the 1942-43 season; and John Foley, 6'4" center from Worcester, Mass. 
Starting the season. Coach Ed (Moose) Krause, who is back at the helm after serving three years as a lieu­tenant in the Marines, has a starting five of Curran and Kelly at forwards; Leo Bamhorst, 6'3%" sophomore from Indianapolis, at center; and Gordon and O'Shea at guards. 
Ratterman, who was late reporting for the squad because of his football duties, is expected to break into the starting combination before the season is many weeks old. 
The Irish face a rugged 24-game schedule, which opened on Dec. 4 agrainst Franklin College and including 
optimistic nor extremely pessimistic. 

Bill Gompers, Wheeling, W. VCL. hedlbadc, atops for lendidom oolr to be All five regulars from l^ t year's great diiven out of bounds by Felbaig near the Amy gocd. 
games against New York University in Madison Square Garden, two with Northwestern and one with DePaul in the Chicago Stadium, one against Ken­tucky at Louisville and one against Dartmouth in Cleveland. 
The complete schedule: 

Dec 4 Franklin College at Notre Dame Dec. 7 Ball State College at Notre Dame Dec. 9 Indiana University at Indiana Dec. 24 Wisconsin University at Wisconsin Dec. 21 Drake University at Notre Dame Dec. 27 Dartmoutti University at Cleveland,'O. Jan. 3 St. Louis University at St. Louis Jan. 7 Butler University at Notre Dame Jan. 11 Purdue University at Purdue .Tan. 14 Michigan State CollCBe at MiclilBan State .Ian. IS Detroit University at Detroit Jan. 25 Purdue University at Notre Dame Jan. 28 Marquette University at Notre Dame Feb. 1 University of Kentucky at Louisville Feb. 3 Butler University at Butler Feb. 8 Michigan State College at Notre Dame Feb. 11 Northwestern U. at Chicago Stadium Feb. 17 DePaul University at Notre Dame Feb. 22 Canislus College at Buffalo Feb. 24 New York U. at Madison Square Garden Feb. 28 DePaul University at Chicago Stadium Mar. 1 Northwestern at Chicago stadium Mar. 5 St. Louis University at Notre Dame Mar. 8 Marquette University at Marquette 
CROSS COUNTRY 
The forgotten Irishman lets Clashmace Mke mcdce friends with student elephant at Pitt 
Notre Dame's cross country team, after jumping off to a formidable start among the also-rans in the National tional champions, scuttled the Notre 
with a pair of victories over Big Nine foes, Wisconsin and Purdue, was put Collegiates at Lansing. Dame harriers a week later, 18-43. on a first place starvation diet for the Having tucked away the Badgers and In the Indiana State meet, Indiana, remainder of the season, dropping suc­Boilermakers on successive weeks, 24-31 with Earl Mitchell setting' a coiuae cessive dual meets to Michigan State and 20-35, respectively. Coach Elvin R. record, forced the Irish to lelinqaish and Drake, finishing second in both the "Doc" Handy's squad of Irish hill-and-their 1945 title by copping top honoi^ Indiana State meet and the Central Col-dalers dropped a photo finish" to the Notre Dame finishing second five pointa . legiates, and ending the season well Spartans, 27-28. Drake, defending na-ahead of third place Pnrdae. In the re­
newal of the Central Collegiates at Drake^ the first after an eight-year lay­off, the Bulldogs performed as expected, winning handily, while the -Fighting Irish annexed the second spot. Althongh finishing fifth, Jim Murphy, Notre Dame's most consistent router all sea­son, finished 48 seconds behind the win­ner, Fred Feiler, who has held the indi­vidual national collegiate title for two years. 
Aside from Murphy, who turned in another sterling performance in the Michigan State encounter, taking sec­ond place just 40 yards behind the Spar­tan's Jack Dianetti, who set a new three and a half mile record for the Tiansing course, there was a very apparent mark of consistency among the remaining five Irish stalwarts who rounded out the big half dozen. Neil Styers chalked up three thirds and a second; Bill Tully scored a pair of fourths and a sixth; Louis "Bud" Tracy romped, home fifth, sixth, seventh and ninth in his quartet of exhibitions; Bob Mitchell finished tenth twice and eleventh once while Gerald Johnson place two times, ei(^th and. eleventh. John Lyons, the only other tegvUxr,
Cof McGee. the Texas beauty, scoots around Southern CoL 
fafled to tally in any of the meets. 
right end for 77 yards and first Irish counter. 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
Akron 
About 20 of our members made tlie trip to 
New York for the Army game. Some of the 
"stay at homes'* gathered in the Student Prince 
room of Joe Kraker's Old Heidelberg^ Restau­
rant to listen to the radio broadcast of the 
game. 
As this is written, two events remain on our 
program for the balance of this year. The first 
is the annual Communion Breakfast on Dec. S 
and the second is our annual Christmas Formal 
dance on Doc. 28. The latter will be held in the 
ballroom of the Mayflower Hotel. Pnul Bertsch 
has been working bard to make both of these 
events successful. 
Ted I-ey. 
Baltimore 
Our cocktail party at the Merchants Club 
following the Na\->' game was unusually SUL-­
cessful. We had anticipated an attendance of 
about 125, at the most. According to the club 
docker at tlie door there were 47SI Gil Preii­
der7>w>t was chairman of the affair and he did 
a s^vell job. The club was delighted and hon­
ored with the presence of Jim Armstrong?. The 
Washington and Philly boys really turned out. 
(We had an announcement of the cocktail 
party read over the public address system at 
the game. Johnny lAOtar, captain of the '37 
football team, was sitting next to Bob Hope in 
the press box. When Hope heard the announce­
ment he quipped, "I'd rather have the Bromo 
Seltzer concession there than Bing Crosby's 
salary from^ radio." However, the affair w^as 
sedate; not one noisy person.) 
On Oct. 28 the club had a meeting and pre­
game rally at the Lord Baltimore Hotel. Guest 
speaker was Jerry Flynn, MO. director of sports 
publicity at the Na\-al Academy. He gave a 
whale of a talk. About 40 N.D. men attended. 
All those present signed the application for a 
club charter which will be forwarded to Notre 
Dame. Plans were made for a communion 
breakfast on Dec 8 at Mt. St. Joseph's Prep 
School. The Washington Club donated two good 
tickets for the Xavj'-Xotre Dame game as a 
door prize for the meeting. I won them. 
Hal Williams. 
CAfcogo 
A football smoker and evening get-together 
was held in the Morrison Hotel on Oct. IC. An 
all-star cast composed of fVank I*eahy, Jim 
Masker, the dean of football officials, Ted Pay­
seur, and I.ynn Waldorf of Northwestern, Ray 
Meyer, basketball conch at DePaul, Bab Dove, 
the Rockets* end. S3mer Angsman, of the Car­
dinals, Hunk Anderson, line coach of the Bears, 
and Elmer lAyden were put through their 
paces by toastmasfer Warren Brown before a 
crowd of 400. Phil Regan came over from 
the Mayfair Room at the Blackstone for a few 
songs. The evening was a great success. 
Charming, capable Jane Cahlll, the former Girl Friday of the club office, recently made known her impending marriage to Joseph T. Dorsan, *37, brother of Johnr '29. Best wishes and congratulations are extended by the mem­bership of the club. 
Sforio G. (Motts) Tonelli, '39, whom every­one remembers for his outstanding feats in football, was elected a county commissioner of Cook County in the recent election. Motts was a Jap prisoner during the war. 
Among those attending the Army game were Bill Mxmxnejp John J>organ, Tom HcCabe, By­ron Kaatdey, Bed iMmcrgaa, Bd Mclaughlin, Joe Shelly, president/ Bide Xash, Jack Pnrdy, Jack Dnffy, Ed O'Toole, John O'SIiaaghnessy. Frank McCarthyf honorary president. 
Jim I<enis. 
Central Ohio 
On Oct. 6, I.. C. "Bud" Murphy appointed 
Ray Kichenlaub, Jr., chairman for a get-to­
gether tu listen to the Notre Dame-Pittsburgli 
game at the HofTman Gardens. We had a nice 
turnout and enjoyed meeting a lot of the young 
alumni just returned from the armed forces. 
On Oct. 14. we held a luncheon at the Neil House and the following attended: F. N. Zciff­ler. I>r. J. G. Dorgan, F. M. Jaeger, Jr., Jolui Murphy, J. W. Jae|:er, Bud Miirph>% Ray Eicb­enlaub, Sr., Ted McDonaid, Jjeo Kletzly, J. L. FUuTct, Charles Weilbacber, Ray Eichenlaab, Jr., Ilarry Nester, Rev. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C>, Paul Donthitt, Jim Harridan, Jack Cannon, Bub HolTstetter, Joe Ryan, John Gordon, Tom Sheehan, and Ban Cannon. 
After the luncheon an election produced the following officers: Jack J. Cannon, *30, presi­dent : Tom Sheehan, *24. vice-president: Charles Weilbacher, *40. treasurer, and Ray 
J. Eichenlunb, Jr., ex. '42, secretary. Dan Cannon. 
Connecticut Valley 
How did he do it? Tom Hayden easily won top honors and a ticket to the Army game by his phenomenal performance in accounting for 14 percent of the gross proceeds accruing to the organization's recent activity. Bill Harley, also a one-man whirlwind, pushed Tom mighty hard until the final week, then couldn't main­tain Tom's pace. To both men, and to tne many others who worked arduously to maKe the sale a success, our thanks. 
Meanwhile, chairman Jack I^-nch of the So­cial Activities Committee has been far from idle. Unless plans are changed, we will have a Christmas dance on Dec. 28, the Saturday be­tween Christmas and New Years, at the Hart­ford Club. Jack has Jilred Al Gentille's 16­plece orchestra. This semi-formal dance, the first Christmas dance for several years, will once more bring the campus group and tin* alumni group together and, it is hoped, will set a pattern for future similar affairs. 
Seen In New York at the Army game: Tim Murph.v, apparently not exhausted from run­ning so successfully. Coleman O'Shanshnessy, playing Good Samaritan. Vince Turley, outshin­ing Arthur Murrx>y, Tom Curry, having a re­union with his sons. George McGrath, from Ware, with all the pre-game statistics, and many of our own classmates whom we had not seen since graduation. The week-end was gay. 
We are most encouraged by the increasing number of "new" faces appearing at our meet­ings. To name a few: Bon Foskett, an editor of "The Catholic Transcript" and commander of the newly created Cathedral Post of the American Legion, Jaclc Callai^ban, advertising man with the Aetna Life Insurance Co.. and Bob Merrill, who may not be a Hartfordlte too • long. 
Our Army game rally was held Nov. 2 at the Bond iiotel. Thirty members attended and brought about 15 guests with them. The results of the Na\-y game, received over the radio in ­our meeting room, were pleasing though not surprising. Most startling annoucement. there­fore, was Joim BobinsiHi's statement that Mrs. Robinson had had twins early that morning— a boy and a girl—making four daughters and one son for John. 
AI lAwton. 
Dayton 
On Oct.'3, the club staged'a real fall Round­up Party at Twin Oaks Cabin In Hills and Dales. The program, which called for old clothes, beer and steaks, was well- attended. Plans are already under way for a Commun­ion breakfast on Dec. S. in keeping with Uni­versal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. 
John Br> Focke. 
Detroit 
The cliib staged another successful annual Feather Party in mid-November for the bene­fit of their scholarship fund. Many fine prizes were again offered this year. 
The club will participate in the Universal Notre Dame Communion Breakfnst on Dec. S and a large crowd is expected. 
The final activity this year is the first post­war Christmas Dance at the Book Cadillac Crj'stal ballroom. The campus club Is cooperat­ing in making this event even bigger than those before the war. 
Tile annual meeting Is scheduled for early in January- and club elections will be held at that time. All members are asked to attend. No­tices for all the above activities will be mailed to the membership. 
Ed IConty. 
CincfMiiaff 
On Jan.'4 the club is sponsoring a dance to be held at the Netherland Plaza Hotel under the chairmanship of John Cottinshom, assisted by Uowsid Bohaii; Walter Heeldn and Jack Bradbcrscr. 
Wxltcr Keinaber, president, plana to appoint a scholarship committee. Due to his efforts, funds for the scholarship are rapidly being ac­quired. 
The club sponsored trips to the Northwestern and Southern California games. Many of the boys were In New York for the Army game. 
We enjoyed meeting Dean McCaitby on his recent visit to Cincinnati where he addressed the Advertiser's Club. From all reports he made 
a. most favorable impression, as we had ex­
pected. Jns. 8. MonisKey. 
fort Wayne 
The club has plann*:(i several meetings and other events for the coming winter and spring according to word received from Paul Sacstct­tcr, president. 
Fkal DeWald. Etanlc HcCartby and Bernic Kcama had charge of the successful October meeting. The December Christmas party will be under the direction of Jeny O'Dowd and the Universal Communion, Dec. 8, will be under the chairmanship ot Heniy Hasley. Members are arranging for a trip to a Notre Dame bas­ketball game this winter, and Norb Scfaenkel is acting as chairman of this undertaking. 
Other officers besides Fanl Sagstetter are: John Iincaa, vice-president; Ed Disser, treas­urer; Kobnt O'Brien, secretary; and Rev. KwfclWt Weatentord, chaplain. 
Kansas City 
.: iWith the exception of two picnics this sum­mer the Kansas City Club remained on an In­active basis. The first picnic consisted of a stag dinner at the Lakewood Golf Club on the night of the Louis-Conn flght. The Softball "game of the century" between Borne Dogan's "Alleycats" and Manegao's "Bums" did not ma­terialize, but a rousing time was had by all. sThe following attended: Hairy Hassman, Jr., Doe Sisro, TInee DeCooraey, Maurice Carroll, **«»lfc Maher. Tom and Cbariie Rlggirs, Norm Bowea, Baiwr Oniric,- Gene Mnmy, Jon-> 

O'Ckmnor, Joe VanDjke, Bob Bcardon. Bob SfoddeOf Dan Schcsrcr, Jr.» Dave Orooks, the Mmrtball brothers, Tom Etnacane and Ed O'Connor. 
The Bcconcl picnic was held on Doc NiffroM Brookside Farm. Doc, a^ usual, had several good movies to show, one being the Navy-Notre Dame 6-6 ball game of last year. 
This fall 25 members of the Kansas City Club chartered a plane and flew down to the Ulinois-Notre Dame game. Frank Ducan ana JToe VanDyke saw the Purdue tussle. Approxi­mately 150 alumni and friends took m tne Northwestern-Notre Dame game. They made the trip to and from South BenU on a special train. 
Current plans call for a local Communion breakfast on Dec. s. Also we arc planning a party during the Christmas season to be run in conjunction with the campus club. 
Tom Reardon. 

Mempkis 
The vLHit of Bill Dooley of the Alumni As­sociation in Mempliis was the occasion for a club dinner on Nov. 21, at the University Club. Bill was en route south for the Tulane game and spent all day visiting with President Fknnk Howland and other Memphis alumni. 
After the dinner the technicolor-sound movie of the N. D. campus was shown, and Bill gave us an interesting talk on alumni affairs and plans. 
P. A. "Pat" 3IcPhil!ip!«, chairman of the re­ligious committee of the club, was designated to make preparations for a N. D. Communion Breakfast on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. 
This was tlie largest atendance of a club meeting in several years, and tliere Is every Indication that the Memphis club will take Its place among the most active In the country. Approximately 40 members and friends attend­ed the meeting. 
Neil FUrrell. 

Milwaukee 
The club gathered on Nov. 9 at the Villard to have lunch together and to listen to the Army-Notre Dame game. At the meeting following the game, it was decided to again hold the weekly luncheons dropped during the war. The luncheons will be informal get-togethers for all Notre Dame men who happen to be In the city on any Thursday noon. They will be held at the Slaryland Hotel. 
Rev, John H. Muiphy, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and formerly superior of Mo­reau Seminary on the campus, will be the speaker at the Serra International luncheon on Dec. 20. Paul Bmst, '2S, is tlic secretary ot the Serra Club in Milwaukee. The N.D. Club Is making arrangements to have Father Murphy attend a gathering of members and friends on the evening of the Serra Club luncheon. 
There are probably many out-of-towners who have moved Into the Milwaultee area recently, but to date we have been successful in contact­ing only two: ]>o J. WcUch, *1S, and PbU Johnson, '41. Since getting out of service. Phil has been tnmsferred from Hartford (the home of Traveler's Insurance, with whom he Is asso­ciated) to Chicago, and more recently here to Milwaukee. 
John Clauder, *34, our president, represented the Milwaukee Club at the meeting of club presidents on the campus. 
Among our active members there are a num­ber in the insurance business. Those recently entering that business include. Red SalU.an, *24. with Connecticut General; 3Ianrice Scan-Ion, '33. Penn ^lutual and Ben Dehk-Hnnt, '31. Bankers Life. 
We sincerely hope that each flnds his efforts in this now field crowned with exceptional 
success. 
New Jersey 
The following are the club New Jersey Club for 1946-47: 
Frank Milbauer, president; vice-president; Joe McKeon, Charles Reynolds, treasurer. 
Itemie Crawford has been 
Tom Dixmi. 
 otficers for the  Paul Slorricon.  secretary; and  appointed chair­

man of the New Year's dance, assisted by Ray Geiger, who w^Ul handle publicity and favors, and ClifT Tallman, who heads the music committee. 
Our Army-Notre Dame ticket activity was a huge success. No club member, however, won a prize ducat. The combined Met Club-New Jer­sey Club special train to the Navy game also proved to be quite successful. I mfght add that 44 people missed the train at Baltimore. 
Our Freshman "Welcome was run off In fine style. Geoi^ire Plain handled the details of this job. Jim Clark and George Wentz have been appointed co-chairmen for the New Jersey club's obser^-atlon of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The following attended our last meeting; Frank Milbaaer, Pete Qoinn, Dan 0*NclU. Clark Reynolds Ray Geiffer, ClUT Tallman. Phil Heinle, Dick Dericks, Paul Morrison, Bill Small, George Plain, Hank Borda, Benue Crawford, Xorm Jandoli, Harry 0*Mealia, 
Rer. John P. LyndL C^.C., ol Holy  Cross Seminary, Notre Dcnne, was the 

principal speaker when the BClwaukee Club had a Communion-breakfast on Sept 29 at St Charles Boys' Home, conducted by the C.S.C Brothers. From the left seated, are Ernest Lonois, M. J. Sconlon, Brother Lawrence, CS.C., Father Lynch, Williwm E. Brown, Thomas Dixon, Harold Watson and Charles CNellL Standing, John Grieser, Dan Hushek* Dr. John Dundon, Lester Sentz, Boderick Sullivan^ ViiX­liam Hansberry, Mark Pfaller, Jr., Fred Keller and Richard CMelia. 
HaiXT mtiwfmtm, Urn Met^mm, ma i wy Doyle, Mkm MofUM^ Joe Mure, Tteee Kieimn and Jack Bciial—hai. At the meeting we: found out that Oeorse MeBakorleh was do-Ihg a nice Job of cba'chlnK at Rutherford HIsh> Lanx and Mrs. Dagrle have been bleaaed with another son. PtMil HoniMiii» our new ylce­president. is playins^ pro football with the Jersey City Giants. Hanrjr StercBBOB is dolngr all right in the sporting goods bosloeas in Dover. 
J«e] 

Peorjo 
On Nov. 16. 250 Peoria Notre Dame fans left Peoria on'the *'ND-Northwestem Football Special." The trip was sponsored by the club and seven passenger cars were used. John Scherer, *4S, did a grand job as chairman or the trip. 
The club is planning a football banquet. A. ' Christmas dance will be held on Dec. 2S at the Jefferson Hotel. This was always a big-event prior to the war. Jaek Kins is chairman^ 
DaaHeckt 

Philadelpkia 
Jim Arautroiic was In town on November T and 8, and be and the Board of governors got-together over a steak dinner to discuss means: of establishing a closer cooperation between the University and the club. 
Our ticket activity, for the benefit of the-Jofan H. Neesvm Memorial Scholarship Fund, was a pronounced success, and we are gratefnT to all of the thousands who assisted as; In view of this success. It may now be possible-to have the first scholarship holder on the cam.­pus next September. 
Dr. £ d Iijone, president of the club, was lit for several weeks and recuperated in Florida.. In his absence. Vice President J«lm Keeao» carried on efficiently. John, with Cliff Proddd,. Harold Dake and J«e CutOe, were. out to the-campus for the Southern Cal week-end. ClifT was delegated by Doc Ijyons to be the official club representative at the club presidents* ses­sion. 
We offer our sympathy and our prayers oa the death of Johwqr XcKen^ '43, who died re­cently as the result of wonnds suffered in the-war. Details will be found elsewhere in thi^ issue. 
Pan] Tbiand. 

SogiHow Yalley 
Sunday. Dec. 8, Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday, the club received Holy Com­munion in a body at the 8 o'clock Mass at St. Matthew's Church, Zilwaukee. An informaT breakfast was held at a Saginaw hotel follow­ing the Mass. 
Sam Aafomio 
'Plans are nnder way for a reactlvitatlon of the San Antonio Club according to a communi­cation received from Jeha Bttter, former pres­ident. Irq—rJ M. Hen is goin^ to organize and head the new regime. 
Members of the club met In the, home of Len HcH, president, for the Army-Notre Dame broadcast. Nov. 9. 
Plans were also announced for the December-meeting. It will be held in the home of Johit Bitter. 
Sprn9field.fff. 
A Thankaslvlng dinner was held by the cinb at the Farm, on Nov. 25. Those In attendance, accompanied l>3r wives or g;lrl friends, were; 
•cT.
 Jos. O'Haia, Ml, C. G. Consnu. 'IT. 

•StA
 Aaihcto. '3», JMn X. OJuroO. '28, Benis UnOMd. -28. r. a. aMtm. '41. Bi^nd T. JfeeM., '30, JiMcvh H. Chmdam. !33. Or. FIMl A. IMIer, '32, Carrollton, III., rU l Wiii~ 


On two hours' notice, the Manila Club recently arranged a luncheon in honor of Bishop lohn F. CHara. C.S.C., and his traveling companion in the Orient Bishop Michael I. Beady, LLJ>. '41, bishop of Coltmibus, O. Present (reading coun­ter clockwise) were Bishop Ollara, Tony Gonzalez, president of the dub, Leopoldo Melian. AUonso Zobel, loaquin P. Gonzalez, Capt I. Byrne, Eduardo Melian, En­rique Brias, Biihop Ready, Eduardo Roxas, an unidentified Army chaplain, Tony Alsobrook, Flo Gonzalez, Mike Arroyo. F. Nolan, an unidentified USO guest and Lt. CoL Jocobo ZobeL 
Shortly before the luncheon, it was aimovinced that CoL ZobeL '25, senior aide-de-camp to Premdent Boxas, would be decorated by his govenmient with a sec­ond Silver Star for gallantry in action during the war in Bataan. Joke is also the holder of the Legion of Merit decoration awarded by the U. S. Army. "He is really one of the heroes of Bataan." writes Tony Gonzalez. 
terimuer, '3G, Joe Pedrucci. '39. and Humltl A. Stone, '34. 
In the business session which followed the 
dinner, plans were made for the next meeting, 
to be held sometime after the first of the year. 
Messrs. Chorchnuin, Xecson and Winterbauejr 
were appointed as a committee to be in charge 
of arrangements. 
Harold A. Stone. 
St. Louis 

The scholarship drive is coming to a close for the year. EVed NcNdll and Walter George liave done a great job with the assistance of Bemie Oowley, ^Ince Fehlig, Jim O'Neal, Dick Klohr, Bill Gillespie, Tom Manran, Jack Griffin, AI Fiianeaf, Bill O'Connor and Fred Weber. 
Prtjsident At Rai'urino called a dinner meet­ing of the Board of Directors preceding a gen­eral meeting to make plans for a visit from EVank I>ahy. Among those present were: Wal­ter George, Boland Dames, Bob Uellrung, Matt Weis, Jade Tence, V- H. AVrapc, Ixju Fehli? and Joe McGIjmn. Jim Will showed np after an illness that had him hospitalized for several weeks. Bert Coushlin took time out from thf celebration of his tenth wedding anniversary to attend­
"We introduced a new procedure at our gen­eral meeting that same night. One of our mem­bers, Francis Rcth. '29. of Wibbing & Co.. gave a little talk on investments. AVe intend to con­tinue this practice from our various members on subjects in which they are well versed. 
On Oct. 13. Dean Clarence Maniun spoke at the Te Deum Porum in St. Louis. We heard of it at the last minute and via the telephone arranged for a delegation to attend. It hnd been several years since we had heard Dean Manion and as usual he was dynamic. 
Needless to say some of our alumni found business pressing In New YorK the week-end of Nov. 9. J€>e McGb^m went to the Army game. Walter Geonce, v\l Kavarino and Fred Weber and I believe Bert CouKhlin were either in New Tork on business or thought they'd get a better reception on the radio "In New York than they would at the "Cniversity Club in St. Louis where some 50 of us less for> tunate listened to the game. 

Here are our definite plans for the imme­
diate future: Dec. S, Communion Breakfast, 
Dec. 26, student-alumni Dinner Dance at 
the Coronado Hotel. Jan. 3. St. Louis "Dnlver­
sity-Notre Dame basketball game. Our students 
will be Itome for the baslietball event and 
promise to furnish us cheer leaders if we can 
reserve a block of tickets. 
Jack Griffin. 
Tri-Sfate 
The club held its October meeting at Wood­lawn in Mount Carmel, 111. The Mount Carmel unit was host to the N.D. men from Indiana, Kentucky and Illinois. '' 
The theme of the session was "beat Army" and if tlie Irish had shown the same enthusi­asm on the gridiron as was displayed at the meeting the Army would have been swamped. 
Jim Armstronic, Hon. AVilUam FitzKcrald, re­tired circuit court judge of the sixth Judicial district of Indiana. Bemie Witacld, '35, ath­letic director of Evansville Memorial High school, and A. W. Crowley, of Salem, were principal speakers. 
Special tribute was paid to the late lA. diaries E. Reynolds^ Jr., *41, who was re­ported missing in action while flying a mission In the ETO in April, 1944. 
The committee that arranged the aftair In­cluded: Norm Walter, B. J. Underriner, Bob HenneberKcr, John Hennebercer, Bob Fear­heiley. Key Dee, Paul SaUivan and Walt Kolb. 
The Nov. 19 meeting was held in "Vincennes. Ind. John V. Hinkel, director of publicity at Notre Dame, was the principal speaker. A fine 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
crowd turned out at the "Beacon Light" for the affair. 
Twin Cities 

The club had a get-together for the Army-Notre Dame game. About fifty members turned out for the broadcast and were well satisfied with the results. Bill Gnimont, the club presi­dent is planning a Communion breakfast for Dec 8. 
lAQis J. Becan. 

Almost oO alumni of the Twin Cities attended the club's **VIctory Radio Broadcast" of the Army-Notre Dame game. The very successful event was held at the Gluek Brewery's well-appointed pub room In Minneapolis. 
Genuine spirit prevailed and same ND sec­ond-guessers seen elbowing their way toward that fluid stuff—courtesy of Gluek's — were: Steve Puffer, jovial Gerry 3IcKay (jack-pot winnah), Ray TUbodcanx, Gerry *'FIame Room** Conway. Ken McNerin, Joe and Jim Shlely (Jim now back in St. Paul). 
One of the most enthusiastic, hopeful listen­ers at the broadcast was the Twin Cities club's oldest alunmus—LtraLs Prince Chate, A.B., '90; LL.B., '92. 
Looking clean as bartenders and performing the same task were dispensers: Leo Mauren and Amie Kline. 
Heard above the din at half-time was Presi­dent Bill Gnimont, announcing the remaining activities for the year: Dec. 8: ninth annual Universal ND Communion Sunday at St. Olafs church, 805 Second Ave., S.. Minneapolis; Dec 
28: the revival of tiie extremely popular Twin Cities Christmas formal dance, this year at St. Paul's Hotel, St. Paul. 
The return of the Christmas Formal to the holiday agenda is linppy news to all ND aiumm and their friends who rightly know it as the outstanding Christmas dance In these twin Min­nesota cities. (Note: members are advised that lack of tux or tails shouldn't deter them from attending. The undersigned lacks a size 42L In either). 
We're expecting eyewitness accounts of the 0-0 game from members John P. Tonnir ^no Bob Bocns, who made the big week-end. 
Bill Gnimont is keyed up about the conven­ing of club presidents at Notre Dame. Nov. 29­
30. He has promised to make Carroll Hall bed check. 
Alumni, in and out: Paul R. De I^ay, '41, left the saintly city for Georgetown University and a law course. . . . Handsome, greying, and single, John P. Toonr* '40, or Interchemlcal Corporation, has arrived In Minneapolis. Across the river. Thomas C. Hahon, '28, has returned from service to his Northwestern Mutual office. 
C. G. •'Bud" licmandt, '28. Penn Mutual gen­eral agent in Minneapolis, acted as chairman of the Public Relations Committee of the Minne­apolis Life Insurance Underwriters Association, when it sponsored a "G.I. Insurance Reinstate­ment Week," Sept. 23-28. Bud and hia workers signed up seven and a half million dollars worth. 
Gene De I^y. 
Wesf Virginia 
The club met at the home of Mike O'Connor on Nov. 9 to hear the Army game. Included in the rooting section ^ere Vince Reishman, John CaeUer, Joe Neenan, Max Hill, Bill Kenney, Bill Minces, M Kessinc, Dave Mancrief, Bill Beishman, Walt Toossaint and Jjurry Hess. 
Several club members and their wives at­tended the game. At our next meeting we will call on A. F. Hudson, Bob Shoemaker, BUI Mangan, and Frank Sheets to give us some 
N.T.C. highlights. 
Bill Mlaces and his family were re.cent South Bend visitors. Bill took time out to talk to the Another more mature acquisition locally is 

Prominent among those present at the annual Army game Reunion and Rally of the New York City Club on Nor. 8 in the grcmd ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria ­Hotel were, left to right, Frank C. Walker, '09, former postmaster general, ReT. John 
J. Caranaugh, CJS,C., president of the University, and Edwin A. Berkery, '27, presi­dent of the club. Father Cavanaugh and Joseph McArdle. line coach, were among the speakers at the overflow affair, tickets for which had been sold out a couple of weeks in advance. 
Photo by Evans 

Notre Dame Chapter, A.I-Ch.E., on "The Chem­Walter McHrara, who is attending Pitt dental ical Engineer's First Year or Employment." school. Walter was .graduated from the Col­
lege of Science last year. 
George ETans, operating several coal mines The Pittsburgh contingent has been very in eastern Kentucky, was in Charleston for a much in evidence at the recent N.D. games. 
few days. 
Bill Steitz and family, Carl and Dorothy Unk, The Hesses and Neenans will be well rep­
Bill and Larr>' OTooIe» John Hickey and his dad took in the Pitt game at South Bend. 
resented in *64 on the St. Mary's campus and Vince Burke, Bob Falton, Fritz Wilson, Drs. 
Notre Dame campus, respectively; for further Bob and Jim McDonald, and the aforemen­information see Birth Announcements. 
tioned O'Toole combination Journeyed to Balti­Joe Nccnon. 
more for the Navy set-to, and most of the above and just about all of the other members sat in on the Army scuffle to watch local boy, 
Western Pennsylvania 
Johnny I^ujack, upset the best laid plans of Messrs. B and D, the former touchdown twins. 
The Notre Dame family in "Western Penn­sylvania has been augmented by three during The Impasse in the hotel dispute in town has . the last month. Dr. Dick O'TooIe, Eugene interfered with the weekly luncheons, but this Coyne» and FHtz Allison all welcomed an addi­is as good a time as any to remind ail of you tion to their growing ranks. For statistical that we will be back at the same old stand at 
purpose?, it might be well to note that Dick the Fort Pitt Hotel on Thursdays when peace has four girls. Gene and Fritz, two girls and 
comes to the Inns. two boys. HDKU lacovetti. 
^WWW^^VWWWW^WV^'M^^^V^^'^'^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^*^^^^^^^^^^^'^^^*^*^^^^^^ 
The New Orleans Club obserred the Tulcme game weekend with two oifidal functiona. First. Friday noon, was a luncheon at Antoine's for the "official -party" from school ond seoted at the head table (above) were, left to right loe Drolla: Al ^ntter; Bill Johnston; Prof. E. B. Egry. football photographer; Rev. John H. Murphy. CS.C vice-president; Bill Dreux. club president- Rev. Leo F. Flood. C.S.C.: Rev. Franda P. Cavanaugh, CS.C trip chaplain; Charlie de la Vergne. J. Arthur Haley, director of public relcrtions; and Jim Favret. Frank Leahy was present but had departed before the picture was taken. A post-game get-together in the St Charles HoteL also sponsored by the club, attracted scores of alumni from the South and Southwest as well as many other friends of the University. 
ITongsfowa. OAfe 
On Dec. 8 the local dab Joined all other 
Notre Dame organizations throughout the coun­
try in observing the feast of the -Immaculate 
Conception. Members of the club attended Han 
and received Holy Communion at the Cathedral 
The members then had breakfast at the 
Youngstown Hotel. Gabe Moraa and Fete Slwe­
hsn were in charge of arrangements. . 
The students* oi^ranisation will hold their 
annual Christmas dance at the Stambangh 
Auditorium on Dec. 28. £«ast year this affair 
was revived hy the alumni but now that the 
student club has been i«tirganized it will take 
over. The alnmnl will take an active Interest 
in the dance as usual. 
The Chesterton Club held Its annual Football 
Stag early in December. Ctevfie Caskw* was 
toastmaster for the affair, which had Jin 
**Sleepy" Onowler 'as its principal speaker. 
Thowa KcnigBa. 
DR. AMALDI ON CAMPUS 

Dr. E. Amaldi. professor of pliysics at the University of Itome, Italy, ad­dressed members of the College of Sci­ence at Notre Dame on Nov. 8. His suB­ject was "Neutron Scattering," and he covered the experiments he and his co­workers performed in Italy. 
Dr. Amaldi spent a week on the cam­pus visiting his former colleague in Rome, Dr. Gian Carlo Wick, now profes­sor of physics at Notre Dame. ­
AIR DELEGATES AT PURDUE GAME 
The University was host to 150 dele­gates from the Provisional International (Svil Aeronautics Authority at the Notre Dame-Purdue football game on Oct. 12. 
The delegates, including leading air navig^ation and communication si)ecial­ists from 38 nations, had been witness­ing tests and demonstrations of latest air navigation and communication equiii­ment in the United States. Bev. John J. Cavanaugh, CS.C, president, officially welcomed the guests during a half-time ceremony. 
WORTHWHILE READING 

(Continued from Pagre 8) that he will wish to read it to the end. The writer has found it wise to leave the reading of the novel till the last; this ensures faithfulness to the other assignments. It is better at the first, while the novelty of the plan appeals, to restrict one's reading time to the hour and a quarter, rather than to set a pace which the press of other work will make impossible to maintain. Eestina lente. 
If a reader of the ALUMNUS has reach­ed this point in tliis article he has eiilier nothing else to do, or he is getting some­thing from the idea. In either case he would do well to adopt the plan, or a similar plan. For system, in reading as in farming or.business or any other oc­cupation, will bring rich dividends to the man who really desires to advance. 
The Noire Dame Aliunnus 

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Shirley Betty Byer and H. Sanford Altman, '41. 
Miss Martha Abberger and William T. Daly, '41. 
Miss Virginia Bundon and William A, 3Iar* shall, '42. 
Miss Marilyn "VValker and Mllliani J. Hrarn, « . *43. 
Miss Margaret L. Larmer and Paul R. To­land, '43. 
Marriages 
Miss TJrsala M. Condon and Patrick J. Con­-iray, '30, Oct. 12, Hyattsville, Sid. 
Miss Shirley O'Neill, daughter ot Bonald S. O'Xelll, '14, and Bobert J. fitzsimmons, '33, Oct. 30, South Bend. 
Miss Irma Alice Zahl and Xorroan A. Bras-sear, '35-'36, Oct. 19, South Bend. 
Miss Anne Allen Peacock and Dr. John J. O'Connor, Jr., ex. '36. 
Miss Jerre Anne Dickmann and John G, iyMalley, Jr., '36, Oct. 24, Muskogee. Okla. 
Miss Avelina Roque and John F. Reback. '40, Aug. 3, Fort McKlnley. Manila, P. I. 
Miss Billie Jane Glardon and Victor J. -Gnlyassy, '42, July 30, Notre Dame. 
Mis« Virginia Dundon and ^niliam A. aiar­«hall, "42, Oct 5, Chicago. 
Miss Mary Bilinskl and Cliarles F. Ifelson, '42, May 4, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Miss Lillian M. Foster and Paul E. Neville, ••42, Oct. 29, Notre Dame. 
Miss Mary Katherine Weaver and Francis -i. ShortsileeTe^ '42, Oct. 12, South Bend. 
Miss Muriel van Pelt and John C. Woelfle, '44, Lynbrook, N. T. 
Miss Mary Madelyne Minges and James A. Eican, '46, Oct. 19. Notre Dame. 
Miss Jeanne Hatfleld ana Donald P. Siegrl, '46, Oct. 19. South Bend. 
Miss Sue Anna pfeiller and Jolin T. Birrett, 
•ex. '47, Louisville, Ky. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. William H. 3IcCttlIoueh, '27. Announce the birth of a son, Oct. 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Robinson, *28, an-Tiounce the birth ot twins, Nov. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. IVed I/. Cannlncham, '30, an­nounce the birth of Kathleen M., Aug. 31. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bichard C. Carton, '33, an­nounce the birth of Bruce Mark. Sept. 7.* 
Mr. and Mrs. Eagene J. Coyne, '33, announce the birth of Marj' Ann, Oct. 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Kye Dnffey, '35, announce the birth of Eugene Donjon, Oct- 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charies E. Haher. *35. an­nounce the birth of Charles J.. Nov. 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. James J, Sherry, Jr„ '36, an­nounce the birth of Kathleen Byrnes, Oct. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. Hash C. Wall, Jr., '36, an­nounce the birth of Hugh Edward III. Nov. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. Justin C. McCann, '37. an­nounce the birth of Stephen John. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Hoore^ *37, announce the birth of Richard Perry, Oct. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. Vincent I. Murphy, '37. an­nounce the birth of Mary Catherine, Oct. 17. 
Air. and Mrs. John J. Doyle, '38. announce the binh of John McCormick, Oct. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. I>onard Tobin, '38, announce the birth of Anne Marie, July 41. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles A- Sweeney, '38, an­nounce the birth of a son. 
Mr. and Mrs. John R. Waters, '38, announce the birth of Virginia Mary and Joan Elizabeth. Oct. 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. lAwrence A. Doyle, '39. an­nounce the birth of Edward Hanley, Oct. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. lAnTcnce G. Hess, '39, an­nounce the birth of Martha Louise, Nov. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. John D. Sullivan, '39. announce the birth of Denlse Patricia, Aug. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Beandtne, '40. an­nounce the birth of Robert Joseph. Jr., Nov. 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. "Wiomas l>ahy, '40, announce the birth of a son, Oct. 19. 
Air. and Mrs. Thomas 31. Fhilpott, '40, an­nounce the birtli of Thomas Murtha, Jr., Oct. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kralorrc, '41, an­nounce the birth of Judith, Oct. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. Xecnan, '41, an­nounce the birth of Joseph M.. July 13. 
Mr. and Atrs. Roffer J. Shonrlin, '41, an­nounce the birth of Catherine Sue, Oct. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph &. Stephen, '41, an­nounce the birth of Sheila Mary, Oct. 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Tomclk, Jr., *4l, an­nounce the birth of Mary Susan. Nov. 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. H. Theodore MacDonald, '42. announce the birth of Mary Kathleen, Sept. 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. William R. Madden, '42, an­nounce the birth of Mar>' Patricia, Sept. 24. 
Mr and Mrs. Jos^h M. Frokop, '42, an­nounce the birth of Carol Ann and Mary Karen. Aug. 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Clemens, '43, an­nounce the birth of Patricia Kathleen, Nov. 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Jacob, *43. announce the birth of Jean Prances, Nov. 24. 
Deatlis 
Rev. Heniy A. HeintsklU, CS.C, '36. director of studies at Holy Cross seminary, died at the Students' infirmary on Oct. 24. 
Father Heintskill was born In MilwauKee, Wis., Aug. 13, 1913. He was ordained to the priesthood In 1940. and was immediately as­signed to the teaching stafC of Holy Cross seminary. 
In 1943 he entered the military service ana served on the Tulag with the United States Navy. As a chaplain he saw action at Luzon, 
•Iwo Jima. Okinawa and in the Philippines. He was discharged from the Navy In Sept., 1940. 
War Veterans enrolled at Notre Dame at­tended the requiem Mass in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. 
Bev. James H, IToonf, C.S.C., '32. age 44, 
former director of the Moreau Seminary Choir 
at Notre Dame, and an authority on the Gre­
gorian liturgical chant, died Oct. 9, In St. 
Joseph's hospital, South Bend, after an illness 
of three years. 
Father Young, born In Perham, Minn., was 
ordained in 1936. He taught and studied at 
Notre Dame from 1936 to 193S. It was durhig 
this time that he directed the Moreau Semi­
nary Choir. From 193S to 1943 he pursued fur­
ther study at Columbia University In New 
York and at the same time taught Gregorian 
chant at the Pojte Pius X School of Liturgical 
Music at Manhattanvllle College of the Sacred 
Heart in New York. 
Funeral services were held in Sacred Heart 
Church on the campus with the Rev. James 
Doll, CS.C.. a cousin of Father Toung. cele« 
brating the requiem Mass. 
Surviving Father Young are his parents, Mr. 
and Mrs. George M. Young of Perham; and 
two sisters. 
Bev. Joseph £ . Hart, C.S.C., '24. superior of 
the eastern branch of the Holy Cross Mission 
band, died suddenly Sept. 28, at Hyde Park. 
Mass. He was 55. 
Father Hart, lirst member of the ordination 
class of 1928 to die, was a native of Quincy, 
Mass. He served continuously on the Holy Cross 
Mission band from the time of his ordination 
until his untimely death. 
Father Hart was widely known throughout 
the country not only as a missionary but also 
as one of the chief figures for many years In 
the laymen's retreats held on the campus each 
sununer before the war. 
Funeral services were conducted at Sacred 
Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus. Rev. 
Christopher J. O'TooIe. C.S.C.. assistant pro­
vincial, sang the Mass. 
Father Hart is survived by his sister and a 
brother. 
«ev. John Francis DeOroote, C.S.C., one of the beat known priests of the Holy Cross order, died at the age of 80 on Oct. 17, at the Notre Dame community Infirmary. Father DeGrootc, who had resided at Notre Dame since he re­tired upon reaching his-50th anniversary in the priesthood, suftered a fatal hetirx attacK. 
Father DeGroote was bom Aug. 27, 1S66, in Mishawaka, Ind. After his ordination to the priesthood in July. 1893, he was appointed pre­fect of discipline at St. Edward's University, Austin. Texas. One year later he accepted a similar assignment at Holy Cross College, New Orleans, La. Three years later he returned to South Bend and for the next 40 years spent most of his time in South Bend as a pastor. 23 as pastor of St. Patrick's Parish - and^ five as founder and first pastor of Holy Cross Parish. 
Throughout his long life. Father DeGrootc was a dutiful priest and a great citizen. Rev. William Minnick. C.S.C.. chaplain of St. Mary's College, and Father DeGroote's last assistant while he was pastor at St. Patrick's, celebrated the requiem Mass in Sacred Heart Church. 
He is survived by 10 cousins, four nieces and a nephew. 
CyiU F. GaCacy, '22, died suddenly of a heart attack on Sept. 14, at his home in New Britain, Conn. 
After graduation from Notre Dame, Cy en­Volume 24, No. 6, December, 1946 

tered Yale University Law School and gradu­ated from there in 1925. He had been practiclnif law since then. 
A native and lifelong resident ot New Britain, Cy was active in the recent formation of St. Maurice parish, .that city's newest Catholic Church. He was always active in parish work. 
About 10 years ago Attorney Gaftney won ac­claim when he led a movement of the New Britain Lawyers club to curb laymen from practicing law. He was also active in the New Britain's Housing Authority. 
He is survived by his widow. Mrs. ' Helen Gaffney, two sons and a sister. 
John J. Krestaerr a student at Notre Dame in '1875-76, died on Sept. 26, at Peru, Ind., at the age of 88. He left Notre Dame m 1876 to go into business with his father in Pern and later became mayor of that city. 
Word has been received at the Alumni Of­fice that Ftandsco D. £naje, *12. is deceased. His last known address was Leyte Island In the Philippines. 
Frederidc M. Frail Pralatowski), '16, died suddenly of a heart attack on Oct. 11> at his home in Wilmington^ Del. 
Mr. Frail had been under treatment for a heart ailment for more than two years and had been seriously ill for a week prior to his death. 
Upon graduation from Notre Dame, in Chem­ical Engineering in 1916, Fred went to work for the Farke Davis Company in Detroit. Dur­ing the first Wortd War he was an officer In the Chemical Warfare Service, doing research work on explosives and gasses for the Army. I«ater he served as a civilian resenrch chemist and soon became a recognized authority on mustard gas'and technical patents. 
Prior to his death he was director of the rayon technical patent section of the DuPont Company. 
Fred Is survived by his wife. Mrs. Gene­vieve Frail, a son, Joseph F., a sophomore at Notre Dame, and two daughters. Lucille M. and Corlnne M., and by a sister. 
Word has reached the Alumni Office that John Matthew Moron, ex. *48. of Woonsocket, 
S. D., is dead. John attended Notre Dame a semester ago and lived In Sorin Hall. He did not return this semester. Death came a few hours after an automobile accident. 
Clarence C* Carson, ex. M9, a student at Notre Dame during the month of July, 1945, was killed In an automobile aifcldent on Feb. S, 1946, near Dover, N. J., while serving as a private first class in the Army. Clarence left 
. the campus on July 27, i»45, to enter the Army. 
George C. Obermcir, a 20-year-old Junior student In the Department of Aeronautical En­gineering, died in a New York hospital a few hours after witnessing the Army-Notre Dame football grame. 
George fell ill during the second quarter and was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital, where he passed away shortly after arrival-A victim of a heart ailment which kept him out of military service, his death was caused by cerebral hemorrhage. 
Surviving are his father and sister, both of Pontiac. Mich. 
William H. Boland, a Notre Dame student in 1S86-7, was killed In an automobile accident In his home town of Waverly, Minn., where he was a banker, on July 28, 1946. He leaves no Immediate survI\'ors. 
fVancis £ . EyanscA, *96, Is dead, according to recent notification from the post office. 
Daidel F. Keecan, a student at Notre Dame from 1912 to 1917, died of heart trouble on Nov. 11, He was burled in Loda, 111., his home town. 
OUR WAR DEAD 
The ALUMNUS is luting br do in this issue those who. accoiding to the present records of the Alumni Office, made the supreme contribu­tion to World War Q—their lives. 
This listing hos one chiei purpose: remembrance. Classmates oi the war dead will wont to remember them often, and in the best traditions of Notre Dame. 
The Alumni Office will supply, upon request, tlie name ond address oi the closest surviving relotive oi 

„anY man listed. 
Ho Is survived by bis wife, a son and a daughter. 
'Word has reached the Alumni OiBce through the Registrar's Office at Notre Dame that Fabian T. Mudd, '22, died on Feb. 26, 1946. 
Mr. Mudd had been in the food market busi­ness on the west coast for a number of years. 
He is survived by his widow, Mrs. Clara Mudd, two daughters, and two sons, ona of whom, Edward, Is now planning on enrolling at Notre Dame. 
As the "Alumnus" was going to press the Alumni Office received word of the death in an automobile accident of FanI M. Malloy, '43, Tulsa, Okla., son of the late Patrick M.. '07, and brother of Patrick H., '36. Further details will be found in the next Issue of the "Alum­nus." 
The 'Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Bev. Bernard i., '26, and Daniel ConchUn, '22. on the death of their mother; to James A. Mar­gan, Jr., '30, on the death of his mother; to Edmond A. Collins, '32, on the death of his wife; to Jerome J. O'Powd, '41, on the death of his father; to Uaishall HcAmier, '33, on the death of his father; to Geiald Hogan, '40, on the death of his wife. 
PERSONALS 
1898 
AHALFCENTUBY 

Dr. Bichord C. Monahon. Butte. Mont, father of Dr. John B. Mona­hon. '35. visited the University over the Southern Califomia-Notre Dame week-end. The occasion marked the first time Dr. Monahan had been on the campus in 50 years. There had been several changes, he said. 
' ' ' " Catherine's Church, 3443 E. 93 St., Clevelnud, O. 
KUher Blike Moriarty, week-ending on the campus for the Southern Cal affair, reported that he had lately seen, at one or other of the games. Bill Schmitt, Steve Hcrr, Joe Moiplir and Ban y Miller. Bill, in accordance with his annual custom, came east from Portland to see all except two or three of the games. In South Bend he was a guest in Jap lAwton's home. 
1912 m. J. 
SMnarth St^ntto' 

I J. Wt r Faa^ of St. Joaeph Coantr superior court. South Bend, presented an Ivory gavel to the Notre Dame Idiw Cliib at a smok­er in the Indiana dob on Oct." IS. The new gavel is to be passed on. to each sacceedlng club president at the University. Judge Peak was one of very few Democrats elected in St. Joe County In the recent elections. 
Federal Judge ftW r M. Bwygot, '27, of Hammond. Ind., was the chief speaker at the meeting. 
1912 " ^ •• •*•» * Ushenit, IOHBT. 
• W • « Solm nam I, IM. 
rmadm B. TkaapHa'k son, Trenor, 'stepped Into the Alumni Office a few hours before the Purdue-Notre Dame game to report that lUa father Is currentiy Uving In Kendocino. Calif. 
• ' "• Ave,, MaHmr, Wk. 
8EBVICK DEAD. W<«LD WAR U Wells W. tmma. rtmnitmr. X. X. 
A. H. "Bed" MCCDOKU is back in Pasadena. Calif., now that he has shed his Navy uniform from World War n . Red was a second lieuten­ant In World War I. He writes that he hears from GkMlm H. McOartky, '15, once In awWle. Chuck Is still located in Minneapolis. 
Bev. E. Tiaccirt'Moaner, CAC, Is yomb di­rector. Diocese of Columbus (Ohio), since re­turning from military service. 
1917 ^ '• v<"^ *** •• *M "*> aa«tk 
•'•'Bold. lad. 
Hany Ba^|aa started his 25th year at the University ot Dayton as head football coach. 
»*•••' V. Holtud Is In Munich. Germany, serving with the Army as liaison and security officer. 
191ft '*""' '*• *•*•«". Ml Lake 8fem 
•
 ' • V Drive, »»•»••>- in>b­

•
resigned Oct. 24 as head coach of the Miami Seahawks of the All-America Football Conference. 


 WABD, tSS S. Spri^ St., 

1920 I<BO B. 
I M Aaselea U, CmUt. 

From I<e* Wasd: Had occasion to call on liea nsssi iiaai i for some assistance In Chicago. He told me that DMc I«alle had been through Chicago and liad quite a visit. Also had a letter from Di A Swift who saw the Iowa game and confirms the report that Notre Dame has "a representa­tive team." as Rank leahy naively puts It. Sherwood Dtxaa is out of the Army, back In Dixon, 111., enjoying being "a country lawyer." 
I finally found out that football can pay; 1 have been retained by Cbfle Walsk and Adaai Walsh aa mtUrmer for the la s Angeles Rams. The I,os Angeles Rams are quite well stocked with Notre Dame alumni, what with CkHe Wabb the general manager, Adaai Wmtik the head coach, Geoige Traftoa. line coach. Beh Sayder (of Ohio State but formerly assisting **•«* I*«l v at Notre Dame), backfield coach. Dr. wnHaas Molaay the team physician, and yours truly handling the legal matters.' Merses­tbal is the only Notre' Dame player on the squad, however. 
Slip' Madigan is manager of the Los An-* geles Dons and, inasmuch as both teams use the Iios Angeles Collsenm for their home field, we get together occasionally and. be­cause of the Notre Dame connection, I am sure we accomplish a lot more than If we had not been at Notre Dame together. 
Upon the occasion of my getting a^divorce from Jae Seatt and moving my officer caused by the fact that the state of California took over the Black Building where. Mr. Scott had an office for more than 33 years and I had.an 
ofBce for more than 26 years, I received a num­ber of messaees wishing me well, among which were letters from FWher Tom ToWn, chancel­lor of the Diocese of Portland, Sherwood Dixon, VoM Mnsmalcer, BiU KcGrath, Irfo Ilossenaucr, Dick Swift and Gene Kennedy. 
Incidentally, Gene, reports that Trustee Tom Beacom was in Los Angeles for a convention of the trust oflicers. He had the pleasure of a round or two of golf with him. Gene is out of the Army and has again returned to the Trust Department of the Bank of America. 
Just before the September" term of school started we had several nice visits with Coach Frank Iieahj-. Unfortunately his brother-in-law passed away and Fr.ank came here to be with his sister, his mother and his brother. Jack. At that time Ion Ben«rdl, John "Ju-gc" Car­berrr, Vernon Rickard, Paul Glars, T. B. Cos­erove and Dr. Frank Breslin took occasion to have lunch with Prank and heard some of his more conservative remarlts about the prospects of the football season, none of which have proved good prognostications thus far. 
An item of interest, not of the Class of '20, is that Mai Elward is now assisting Marchy Swartz in coaching Stanford University. Bill Cook, who also played on that famous Rockne team with Mai and Gus Dorals, has been quite ill and has been confined In the hospital. An­other one of that period. Bill SDlroy, h;is been in Los Angeles in his capacity as general coun­sel for the Santa Fe Kailroad. 
Robert E. O'Haia Is director of the budget and accounting division of the National Hous­ing Agency, Washington, D. C. 
On Nov. 5, Fir. Charles Doremus, C.S.C., went to Columbus, O., to offlclate at the ceremony commemorating the twenty-ntth anniversary of the wedding of T. Bernard Devine and Gerald­ine Berkley. Father Doremus had married them in 1S21. 
Father Doremus said the Mass and after the last Gospel congratulated the couple, the par­enU of nine children, eight girls and one boy. 
 W. DUFFT, 1600 Terminal 
Tower, Clereland, Ohio. 
1921 DAN 
From Dan Doffi*: Quite a few of the gentlemen from the time of '20, *21 and '22 had a real reunion at the New Tork Rally the night before the Army game. They all wound «P in one corner of the hall. Many of them had not seen each other since graduation. Among those present, and a long time naiss­ing, was "Honest" Dare Hayes, tlie bard of Hartford. He is.now in a big radio deal in­volving a Massachusetts station. Dave's Mrs. was also there. Then, of course, there was Joseph Bolpb Dnuul>', who was busy telling that tow-headed son of his about Gipp in the 1917 game- In front of people he didn't mention he played quarterback. I imagine the young man has got­ten that on other occasions. Then there were Mr. and Mrs. Franci:* LccU­ard, the taxicab tycoon from, Toledo, of whom Father Vaggerty used to say: "Lockard and Mallisan could get in and out of any window at Corby Hall, at any time of the day or night." IVillie CoQffblin, the '20 captain, and presi­dent of the Class of '21, was there with Mrs. Cougblin. Willie Is now assistant attorney gen­eral of tlie state of Indiana and counsel for the public utilities commission in that state. Danny Cnlhane took time off from his boys' work in N. Y. to spend a few hours with us. Bansy BDles and Mrs. Miles were there from South Bend, as was Jake Kline. All the South Benders were saying "Amen" to everything '*Dope" Moore had to say, including the fact that Mr. Moore is the fastest man in the world, of all time, in the first thirty yards. When asked "whoever heard of a thirty yard dash," Dope went to bed. MmA Wmncis was there. Dake Kinney was down from Syracuse. Joe Riley was there from 
Muskegon, as was Judge Joe Sanford, Common Pleas judge in his district. Tom Barber was there from Erie, Pa., looking for tickets for the Governor. 
Larry Morgnn and Georre YTittereid, the big* butter-an d-egg man, both made the trip from Chic:igo and seemed to be enjoying themselves very much. After talking with Mrs. Wittereid, is is easil3' discerned that George is still the same fellow. 
About tlie biggest surprise of all was the presence of Slip Sladi^an, who was there with his daughter, Mrs. Graney. Slip's team played two games In greater New Tork, one against the Yankees and one against Brooklyn, imme­diately following the Notre Dam.e-Army game. He was taking his team, the Los Angeles Dons, from New York to Miami, to play the Sea-hawks, and from there out to the coast to flnish his season at home. Slip is high in his praise of the new league and predicts nothing but a rosj* future for the All-American Confer­ence. He reported that he had some illness and a serious operation but Is now back In the pink. 
I>ank Coughtin, first assistant attorney gen­eral of Indiana, suffered from a slight coronary occlusion late in November, Doctors have prom­ised his release from St. Vincent's hospital. In­dianapolis, by mid-December­
1922 GERALD ASHE, 39 Cambrid^ St., Rochester 7, N. Y. 
SER\-ICE DEAD, WORLD WAR II Arnold J. HcGmtli, Chicago, 111. 
From Kid Asbe: Klsewhere In this Issue is publislicd tlie formal death notice of C3^I (Cy) GalTney of New Britain. Conn., N.D. '22, and Yale '25. who was most prominent in New Britain legal circles, having earned an enviable reputation as an attorney In his home area. Cy was always active in class affairs at Notre Dame, and was well liked by his classmates. He died of a heart attack In circumstances very similar to the deatli of his good friend. Connecticut neighbor, and fellow classman, Clete Lj-nch, of happy memory. Our prayers and sj-mpathy are extended to Mrs. GaflCney and tlie children, also, to parents of the deceased. 
According to Information furnished by Arch Ward in the "Chicago Tribune," Harrj* Mehre is now a football writer for an Atlanta news­paper. 
Dr. Eddie Anderson is to be congratulated for the fine showing his University of Iowa football team has made this year. This Is Ed­die's first season since he returned from war. 

Hcartley "Hnnk" Anderson is still busy In there welding together powerful lines for the Chicago Bears football team. There Just Isn't any better line coach anywhere than our own modest Hunk. 
Our scouts and reporters have discovered many '22 men at various football games this fall. Some of the reportings are as follows: 

Illinois: Dr. Dan Sexton, Turn McGabe, Jim SImw, Bob l*heian. Pittsburgh and Purdue: fVank Bloemer and family. Navy: E. Bradley Bailey, Tom McCabe and wife, Cliarlie Hirschbulil and wife 
Army: The McCabes, the Hirschbnbls and probably everj' *22 man in the Metropolitan area, 
Charlie Hirechbnbl and wife are back In Portland, Ore., after a grand visit to the ilid-West and East. On their trip they saw the Army, Navy and Northwestern games and vis­ited in Dixon. 111., with the Jerry Jones, also in Chicago with the Harold BIcKees. This is not an official report of the details of their trip so they probably saw and visited many other '22 men not mentioned here. It serves Charlie right that it rained a bit at the Northwestern game. Did h© not put on a raging snowstorm In Portland, a few years ago for tlie benefit of one of the visiting firemen—^just to make him feel at home? 
Joseph J. Kcardon, former captain in the United States Marine Corps, and survivor of the Bataan "Death Marcli." spoke recently be­fore the American Red Cross in San Diego. Calif. He presented graphic proof to his audi­ence that packages sent by the Red Cross helped save many lives In the Philippine Is­lands. Joe was taken by tlie Japs from Correg­idor and sent to Cubanatuan prison camp on June 3, 1942, and was held captive until V-J day. Still in the Marines, he is now In Arling­ton, Va. 
IQ^ ^ PAUL U. CASTXER, S« Hoj-t Arr., 
•'" ^ New Canaan, Conn. 
Rev. John E. Dnffy Is a colonel In the War Department office of the Chief of Chaplains in Washington. 
m O^A J- F- HAYES, <• Kim ATCW, Laich­
• TA*t mumk, N. Y. 
Ed Tbode has been elected vice-president and secretary of General Mills, Minneapolis. 
IQ^ e JOHN P. HURLEY, JR., 2985 Brook­
* '^ ^ dale Rd., Toledo, O. 
SERVICE DEAD, WORLD WAR II ^Incoit F. nurin^on, Sioox City, la. 
RELIGIOUS ARTICLES NEEDED 
Bateri P. Alvarez, *25, sends a stirring appeal for help In behalf of the sufTering people of the Philippines. Rafael pleads for religious articles, religious books and objects to aid in the spiritual rebuilding of the damaged Islands, in part he says: 
"The material relief that we receive would not be complete if we would not add and beg from your Christian hearts the spiritual help that we need for the reconstruction of our souls. The War has greatly damaged the faith and moral character of our youths. We have no means of bolstering this lapse unless we secure from abroad certain propaganda material such as Holy Bibles, religious books and articles. These Items are very scarce in the Philippines. 
"I, being one of your brother alumni in the Philippines, am duty bound to tell you the truth of our religious status and I hope that in so doing I shall touch your hearts so that you will look after the welfare of our Catholic brethren In this side of the world." 
Alumni are urged to send contributions direct to Mr. Alvarez, Kabankalan, Ne­gros Occidental, Philippine Islands. 

109i L VICTOR F. LEMBEER, Mox tSl, Ifn­
• '* © wood, Mich. 
SERVICE DEAD, WORLD WAR II Mmatiec J- McEIIigolt, Eranston, III.; John 

F. Shntsi, Houston, Texas. 
Roman Feldpausch, Hastings, Mich., writes that his eldest son is planning on enrolling at Notre Dame next September. 
Dick Donndly Is with the Consolidated Vul­tee Aircraft Corp. in San Diego, Calif., as as­sistant to the director of industrial relations. Dick's eldest (of seven) is also counting on 
N.D. for next September. 
Ed Hannui, previously with the legal depart­ment of the American Petroleum Institute and an attorney In the trust department of the Bank of the Manhattan Company, has been appointed secretary of the newly organised trust division of the New York State Bankers Association. 
frrinc^ Harwich, Mishawaka attorney recently retnmed after four years of active service In the Navy, has been elected chairman of the 
Jewish Community council of St. Joseph 
C6unty. 
Beit Diuine'9 book, "Play Ball, Son," accord­ing to Arthur Daley in the "New York Times," has already sold 15,000 copies, instead of the expected 2.000, and Bert has had a movie short made from the book. Henry Ford bought a million digests of the book for use by the American Legion baseball teams. 
IQ9 7 JOSEPH M. BOL.%ND, Badio Station *'^» irSBT, South Bend Tribune, South Bend S«, Ind. 
SERVICE BEAD, WOKLD WAR II 
James P. Mahoney, Rawlins^ AVyo.; Hugh F. 

McCafferr, Hempstead, K. Y.i Charles M. 
Walsh, East UTerpool, Ohio; Joseph W. Whe-• 
Ian, Grantwovd, N. J. 
10Ofi ^^OIB T, 'BVCKLEY, Social Security I wmO AdraSnistrBtion, Room 400, UOO Ches­ter St., Cleveland I-l, O. 
SERVICE DEAD, WORIJ> WAR II Jus^li P. BIcCaffeiT* Chester, Fa.; Thomas 

F. Buchrisfaaafly Indianapolis, Ind. 
Prom liOn Buckley: I see John I^oe quite often now that he Is in Cleveland with Pittsburgh Steel. Bill Jones started private practice on the first of October as an associate in the law firm of Hamilton and Hamilton, Union Trust BIdg., Washington, 
D. C. Being near Akron gives me an opportunity to see Art Gleason and his family. Art is with the Goodrich Tire and Rubber Co. I noted in the papers during the elections that James Schoclc­
ncssr* Columbus lawyer, was a campaign aid to Governor IJausche. 
I met Fat Oanny on a train from Columbus. Pat is handling rate and labor cases for the Erie Railroad with headquarters in Cleveland. He has five children. 
I received a letter from Heribert P. McCabe recently which says in part: 
".. . I regret my inability to furnish any news of our classmates. With the exception of lionitf Carr I have not seen or heard from any­one. Z^u and I play golf together occasionally. Lou is manager of the local bus company and is living in Spring Lake, while I live in Allen­hurst, N. J." 
From John Lorsen: "On Sunday. Sept. 22, 1946, three members of the class of 1928 electrical engineers had a sort of private reunion at Bud Topping's sub­urban estate. Dick Greene and I were the other two. 1 hadn't seen Bud or Dick since gradua­tion some 18 years ago. Bud lives in Rochester. X, Y,; he was recently transferred from the New Tork City oflice of the Johns Manville Co., industrial products division. As district sales representative, he covers a considerable section of central New York. Every time be goes through Geneva he stops In to see me. "We had a very nice day. Jim (Red) Berry was also invited up for the day with his fam­ily but he couldn't get away this time. "I mentioned Bud*s estate—he really has a beautiful home and with three extra lots on which almost everything grows. We went home with our car trunk full of appies, peaches, pears, grapes and berries. He's going to dig up a lot of his apple trees before next year and • make a nice yard for bis two sons. They are nice, well-behaved boys, 8 and 5. and my little girl, age 4, .had a swell time with them all day, including a trip to the zoo. 
"Bick and his wife had come from Syracuse to spend the week-end with the Toppings. Dick hasn't changed much. He has a nice position with the Crouse-Hinds Electrical Products Co. of Syracuse, where he Is In charge of the re­searcTi laboratory. He tells me he does con­siderable fishing* in his spare time, and being an angler myself, we had qtilte a session to­gether. 
"We hope to have another get-together In the 
From left: Bud Topping, John Lar­sen ond Dick Green, all of '28. See '28 news, this issue. 

near future and this time It will include Red Berry. 
"Last December Ru»w*<ell Collins dropped in on me for an evening after about 15 years. He was on his way to Long Island to return to work for the telephone company. During the war he was doing research work and teaching electronics and radar at Duke University. Russ Is married and has two adopted children. 
"In August of 1944, Marcus F&nrell moved to Geneva with his family for a little over a year. He was stationed, at the Sampson Naval Training Station, across the lake, where he be­came head of the Bpldemiology Department and lieutenant commander before being trans­ferred to Bainbridge, Md„ late in 1945. Mark studied m.edicine at Harvard after leaving Notre Dame and had worked up a nice prac­tice as a child specialist In his home* town, Clarksburg, W. Va., before going into the Navy. I saw Mark quite often while he was here and we had some nice times together. He has two splendid boys about 6 and 8. I hadn't seen Mark since 192S. . 
"I'm still connected with the City Health Dept., Geneva, as inspector of health and san­itation, and I have occasion now and then to meet Bud on business as well as oa pleasure. Joe DcBott is stUI managing a local haber­dashery and Clare Tunhey, *26. has a law office in Geneva." 
Cmdr. John Robinson, West Hartford, Conn., was recently presented with the Na\*y Legion of Merit Medal. John was cited for his out­standing endeavors as director of selective ser\-ice for the state of Connecticut from No­vember. 1943. to September, 1945. As If that was not enough honor, John recently became the father of twins. His current total—five. 
Assistant Attorney General Meredith Dtiyle represented the state of Michigan recently at a state boundary conference at Madison. Wis. 
Bob Fogerty, released from service, Is aga-ln a professor of history at the College of St Thomas, St. Paul, Minn. 
From John Igoe: I made the Army game through the courtesy of my old friend, Hemy Blassman, who In re­sponse to my frenzied call, produced two fine tickets, enabling me to stand around the Com­modore lobby with the smug "I-got-mlne" look. To my right, John McMamnon, who played a whale of a tackle In the same game 19 years ago, was apprising Art Haley's brother of the wonders of New England and the complete Gaellclty of the McManmon clan. To my left Jim Peatson, who Is now a dignified lawyer In Flint, Mich., was casting a worried look about for some of the friends he had lost In the mllU ing. Jim looks just as trim and fit as he did long ago when he sparked on the diamond for the Irish. In front of me Jake Kline was assuring a small group that he "didn't have a single tick­et" and looking for that much-talked-of quick opening (that was surprisingly difficult to find 
all day). AU around milled friends of Notro Dsxne and' Kotre Darners — tbmAxwmtnmmp BotU GnwlCT* Tmt Gemj* and doiens of others whose names elnde me—as mine must have ' eluded them. 
Ran Into 4akm Vjttaom as we started out to the Stadium, and I must say that of all tbe fellows I met. time has been most kindly to John. He appears fully capable of wlnnlnr the center berth on this year's basketball team. At the stadium. Joe Maxwdl steamed by. rem* Inlscing no doubt on the days he used the playertf* entrance to the park. 
Under the stands X ran into Orestes BevcAs and his charming wife. Martha. Res enrolled at N.D. from my home town of I<orain and Is now a financial expert for several compan­ies and the father of a line young son. Ckariex Berets was also at the game but I did not see him. 
I agreed to meet Res and Bteric Ztekrer* the Hamilton banister, under the soutb goal post immediately after the game — hut there were several thousand people who did not seem to understand that I had a date with the boys, and, while Z fought hard, -I wound up on the stairs to the subway—whence there was no re­turn. That well-known Southern gentleman. Cyp ^Mwlv sat near me and we managed a quick handshake and a few disconnected amen­ities before the kick-off. 
After the game I ran into Gconre Brn e of the Brooklyn Byrnes, who was waiting the arrival of his brother, £d. George is connected with Foster Wheeler Corp., is married and still claims Brooklyn, or rather proclaims Brook­lyn, as the Garden Spot of America. Also wan­dering about the lobby of the Commodore was Ed KcMy of Lorain. He finished several years after us but I think It noteworthy that I had to go to New Tork to meet a neighbor from a town of 40.000. Bd is in the fnmltUFe business with his father In Lorain. A week or so B.A. (before Army) I was In Indianapolis and had a lengthy phone visit with Befc KlAy. We punched the bag until the line outside my phone booth reached from the Severin Hotel to the depot. Bob was all agog over the prospect of a de luxe (private car) trip to New Tork for the game. My how that boy has changed! Last time be went to an Army game was in 1927—and he used the "nnder-the-seat" sys­tem. In 1946 he has a whole car. 
Was in Cincinnati yesterday and met up with Joe KlBfify, who Is doing an excellent Job of staying single and practicing law. I think he divides his time about flfty-fifty to both chores. We had lunch and met BOb Haglics who re­galed us with some highly interesting stories of his adventures In London. Bob is In the in­vestment business in Cincinnati. CheC Bice is now a Clevelander. He and Kitty had us over to dinner the other night and, as you might well Imagine, we reviewed a lot of details. Chet Is Interested In steel buildings, plans to operate in and about Akron. 
Iio« BMeUcTv our class secretary, is here In the Social, Security Division of the federal gov­ernment and has just been fortunate enough to find a place to live. Vp to now bis family had been in MIshawaka and Lou w^as trying to com­mute. . But that elusive apartment finally turned up and the Buckleys are all together now. As you probably know 1 was transferred from Chicago to Cleveland this past September. Z now live in Rocky ZUver where the only noise is inside the house when the three -little IJKoes get going full blast. When It comes time to make awards for outstanding fellows I demand to be counted in, for, believe rae, I am the only^an in tbe world who lost money on real estate In 1946. IJst me on the ballot opposite the guy most likely to succeed. 
I ran into Raak Bosetaa just before Z left Chicago. Frank Is president of the Kaydon Bearing Co., at Muskegon, and was in Chi­cago to watch his horses perform at Arling­ton. We had a short visit but we were together long enough for Frank to tell the host and hostess of my iNuty that be almost failed to recognise me because I was so quiet. I offered him a pretty stipend to repeat that remark in front of FfUhcr Dorenms or Father GaUaran— and he agreed to do so when occasion permits. 
1090 ^^^^^^ JOSEPH p. McNAMARA, 17^ T 1314 N. Court HouseRd., Arlinerton, Vn. 
SERVICE DEaJ>» WORLD WAR II Richard S. Freeman, Tflnamac, Ind.; Joseph 
A. Mariano, Jr., 9few Rocbelle^ X. Y.; Richw^ 
L. Novak, CUfton, N. J. 
John T. Burice, on inactU'e status with the Navy as a commander, is working as an ac­count executive with Chambers and Wiswell, Boston, advertising firm. ^ 
Bill Krieg-, former Indianapolis practicing at­torney, has been elected president ana. general manager of the Packard 3fanufacturing Corp., Indianapolis. 
1930 
HAROLD E. DUKB, 4030 >\ Broad St. Philadelphia, Fa. 
SERVICE DEAD, WORLD WAR II Thomas F. O'Xall, Albany, >'. Y. 
From Harold Dnke: Picked up in Baltimore at the Navy game; Danny SnlliTan is hack from the wars and, 
while we reminisced over 16 years back, and both consoled each other on getting to be old men. Danny looks much the same, except for a little greying around the temples. He told me Joe McCabe was in Baltimore but, unfor­tunately, I didn't get to see him. 
Gil Prendersasi was busier than a bee keep* ing the Baltimore after-the-game cocktail party running smoothly. 
Johnny.IAW, down from New York for the game, was in attendance at the party. Johnny looked as though he could still get in there and play a lot of football. 
Lt. x:nidr. Ed Correy (still in the service) was another '30 at the game and cocktail party. 
Hany Fkanos is back from the ser\-ice and Just built a new showroom to renew his Dodge and Plymouth agency in Paoli. 
The Army game rally was so crowded It was well-nigh impossible to contact any but those in your immediate vicinity, but I did get a chance to chat with the always-present Mr-and Mrs. DIdc BIO«MU, without whom the rally Just couldn't be. Georre Winkler, another de­pendable one can always count on seeing at the rally, was again present, affable as ever. Had opportunity for a quick, "hello" with Chuck Bohr as he was moving through the crowd. Larry Crtmin suddenly appeared and during the conversation promised to drop a few lines for our next "Thirty" Column. Ran Into Dick OToole in the dressing room after the game trying, as was your scribe, to break through the crowd and congrattilate fVank Leahy on the fine Job he has done. 
All contributions of news will be greatly ap­preciated. 
John F. O'Malley has returned from service. He's living at 6442 South Inglcslde Avenue, Chicago. 
John Heilker announced the opening of IiIs law offices in Norwich, N. Y., last October. 
Fatbor Russell Shidler stopped In at the Alumni Office on Sept. 24 on his way to Fair­field, Mont;, his home. 

Lou Bnddey, '28. sees Harvey Ganthier chief, business management section, Michigan ITn­employment Compensation Commission, quite often in Detroit. 
IQ^ I WALTER F. PHUJFP, 4 Pickwick 
* '^ * Lane, Newtown Sqaare, Pa, 
SERVICE UKAn, WORLD WAR n 

Rer. Bicliard £. Garbenr. SUverton, Ore. (Gnadnate Student, I93I); John £. Chevirny. Hammond, Ind.; Jobn M. Hucbes, Jacksonville. Pla.; Joaeph R. Sdiroeder, Minneapolis, 3Ilnn.; 
<;eoiire C. Waosell, Pittsbiirrlit Pa-From Walt Phillipp: 
PinalJy came across a number of '31ers O" 
company with their "better halves") in New 
York City prior to the 0-0 slug-fest. They were: 
Dr. Tom Cody of New Canaan. Conn., who is 
the same old Tom we knew back on the cam­
pus. 
Artie Fl}-nn and Hob Rick are the Brooklyn 
Twins who won't take "no" for an answer-— 
even if the party happens to be a distinguished 
looking doorman at the Waldorf Astoria. Nice 
goin', boysl 
Kay Connurs, "the man from Mars," came down to oartli to mix with "wo puor mortals" for a week-end. As you know, Ray is the New York district publicity representative for the United Air Lines. 
Gilbert Perry has everj'thing under control in Wyoming, Pa. Gil is a principal of a school and doing a grand Job. 
Of course, there was Dan Halpia. As mana­ger of the home instrument dept. television receiver sales section for RCA. he's introducing television in all major cities of the United States. The guy's terrific! 
Jim 3IcQuaid of VIncennes, Ind., writes that the Tri-State meeting had as their guest one Jim Armstronc: at their Oct. S and Nov. 19 meetings. Other 'Slers were F. J. Henncberser and Warner A* Reistiig-. 

Gene Rigney was chairman of the Chilllcothe Sesquicentennial Commission. Chilllcothe. O. The festivities took place Oct. 1 to 6. Harry Kennedy of the Coca-Cola Export Sales Com­pany has been transferred from Caracas, Vene­zuela, to La Paz, Bolivia. Lt. Cmdr. Frank Butorac Is in charge of recreation and ath­letics at Great Lakes Naval Training Station, near Chicago. 
Jim O'Brien is a highway engineer since be­ing released from military ser\'ice. 
m Q0 9 JABIES K. COLLINS, 3021 W. 3rd 
• '^ * St., Dayton, Ohio. 

SERVICE DEAD, WORLD WAMt U Geoi^e S. Owens, Luckport, N. V.; Albert A> AVallace, Davenport, la. 
From Jim Collins: Herb Glorsio, unheard from for many years, writes that the Army game week-end was very successfully attended and enjoyed. He was with Gene Connelly, Hank Donalty, Fran O^rich, Flo 3IcCartfay, Hlllie Weir, Ed Rhatigan, Mar­shall 3IcAvenny and Charley Hitzelberrer, among others-Herb is practising law in New Tork. His l)rotlier, Doug, '34. is on duty at the Naval Hospital at Long Beach. Calif. 
Dr. John Keaney writes from Louisville that he and John Rannon went to the Purdue game on the trip sponsored by' the N.D. Club of Kentucky. Dr. Henry Asman drove up to it. Ray Pfeiffer has left the Cummins Collins DIs­tiller>- to start his own distillery. Bemie Bloem­er Is still In the chlte business in Lexington, and his brother, IPrank, also an alumnus, han­dles the business in Louisville. 
John is practising medicine right across the hall from Hank Asman. Hank, incidentally, has been specializing in surgery. 
Ted Halpin writes that the wife of his brother Ed., ex. *32. died at their home In Thi-Iiodaux. La., in September. Ted still lives in Indianapolis and says that he often sees Bob Wliitecotton, ex. '40, at his lumber yard. 
Stan CzpalskI writes that one of the most momentous decisions of the summer was made when he, Neil Hiurley, Ernie Hecliinger and a few more decided to pass up the Army game for the Tulane game. I haven't a report of the trip yet but, after seeing them in action at the Army game last year, I can fill in the blanks. Ben Salvaty and Barney Bernhardt were also planning on the trip. 
Ben has left the employ of the government and is working for a private concern. Leo Schiavone has done the same. 
The Notre Dome Alumnus 
Jim Downs is in the prefabricated house busi­ness in Hubert. Calif. He has a new daughter. Sally, bom in Hubert recently. 
Stan also stated that Ed Ropenski, now liv­ing in Grand Rapids, spent a vacation with him in Chicago. Ed brought his family along, 

> and his sister was the sensation of the vaca­tion. 
VMt Roney is still in the advertising busi­ness in Philadelphia, and was on hand in New York for the Army game. Jim Wordell has moved to Cliicago. 
I was extremely sorry to hear of the death of Father Henry HeintskiU, C.S.C. He was a fine priest and a grand man. The announce­ment was very sad news to not only hla friends of the University but to those who knew him in the Navy. He was the chaplain of the U.S.S. Tulagi, a carrier, during Its entire time of com­mission, and saw action In both the Atlantic and Pacific. 
Ray DcCook, former basketball star, has re­turned to the campus. He Is a training ofTicer in the Veterans Administration. Notre Dame odice. Ray was a teacher and assistant coacli in the La Porte, Ind., high school following a long hitch In the Navy. 
TIGHB WOODS, M16 Clyde Ave. 1933 <»cmK*, III. 
SERVICE DEAD, WORLD WAR II 

Geoice E^ Allincham, New Yoik, N. Y.; Wil­liaat F. fair, Yoiincstown, Ohio; John J. Kel­ley, HI* Eaa Claire, Wis.; William C. Murphy. Middleton, Conn.; Jacob P. Sevc'k. Klamath lUls , Ore.; Arthur C. Smith, Cliicaco* HI.; lionel V. O. Smith, Buffalo, N. It. 
Miasrice Lee, attorney In Chicago, and his wife announced on Aug. 16 the adoption of twins, Robert Gmmett. II, and Maureen Eva. 
Fttthcr Craddick, prefect of religion, writes Chat a student stopped Into his office to give high praise to BUI Hanlfln, '33, who was the genial host to many Notre Dame men at Pear] Harbor. 
From 3felll W. Ebert: "Finally back home again. I was separated from the Navy. My wife. Marion, and my four sons spent the past yenr with me in California, after my return from the Pacific Haven't seen many of the old gang. Did, however. Immp into Jim Gerend, Joe Clark. Bay Branohctta, Ktank Donalty and Geoive Weber while in Oaliu." 
Kordy Hoffman, legal counsel for the United Steel Workers, C.I.O., was the principal speak­er at a labor forum in the Law School on Oct. 
10. That evening he addressed the student body at the Purdue-Notre Dame grid rally. 
From Dick (>artcm: "This will advise you that our fourth son was born on Sept. 7. Law­rence A. Carton, *29, my brother. Is a member of the prominent law firm of Roberts. Pillsburg. Carton and Sorenson of Atlantic Highland. 
N. J. Larr>-, a maior on General Somraerville's staff, Washington, D. C, was discharged about a year ago. I do not know much about his roommate at Har\*ard Law School, Bill Krie^. '29, except that he was high up in Selective Service. 4oka, my youngest brother, ex. '33, is an executive In Junior Achievement in New Jersey." 
Ed BIcKeevcr, former football coach at Notre Dame, has resigned as head coach of Cornell. Rumors have Ed going to Michigan University as backfield coach or to the head coaching job at the University of Texas. At Cornell his teams won 10, lost 7 and tied one. 
B. OL£NMOir, Jr., Com­

1934 Solvmts Corp., 17 B. 4Snd St., Mew Torts dty, 17. 
SERVICE DEAD, WORU> WAB U 

John W. Diner, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Donald E. Bbam, CiaOmmma. Ohio; A. Geraird Farrell. BodMSter. N. y.; John P. Ftrench. Astoria. 
N. T.; BcT. Fatriek X. Flaherty, C.S.V., Sooth BoateB, Mass.; Tlncent J. Jaainsld, Sprinc Tal­ler, jr.». " 
Volume 24, No. 6, December, 1946 
From Joe Glennon: Had a nice visit u-Jth Joe Huirigan and h!s wife who were on from Seattle for the Army game. While east they took in the Navy and Northwestern games. Joe is assisting his father in operating a 120.000-acre wheat and caittle ranch in eastern Washington. Joe reports that Aagle von Bo«dclln is In the lumber business in Tacoma, Wash. 
Recently while driving along the Morritt Parkway I met Ross Iieanord, on his way to New York from his home in Winchester, Mass. Russ reports that Jim Forrest Is happy in his new home in Stoneham, Moss. 
Among those seen at the Army-Notre Dame 

Rally were Jack Dorsey, who is doing further 
research at Medical' Center: Frapk McGahren 
up from Washington. D. C ; Bob Hamilton on 
from Wisconsin: and Jim Reevt-*, hometown 
boy. 
Iioirfs Brown is assistant chief refinery engi­

neer of the Cooperative Refinerj- Association, 
CofCeyviUe, Kan. 
Tony Facliese recently put on the first tele­vised newscast on the air. It was a two-hour show on WABD, New York. One of the city editors of International News Service, Ttmy has been writing and producing the newscasts since mid-August. 
Joe Boms wrote late in September from New Haven. Conn., tliat he had attended a meeting of the New Haven Catholic Gradu­
•ites* Club where the Catholic chaplain of Yale University was the pr.'nripal speaker. The chap­lain said that the oustanding Catholic men at Yale were Notre Dame graduates. He singled out several. Including Creijchton Miller, '44. as exemplary Catholics and a credit to their Alma Mater. 
Dr. Ttoag Gcorcio, in the Navy, stopped ofT 

In the Alumni Office with his family on his 
way to the United States Naval Hospital. IJOTIR 
Beach. Calif. 
John ShiTcly and Granville Zicgler have 

opened law offices in South Bend. Both are 
former Army officers. John being released as a 
lieutenant colonel last February and Granville 
leaving the Army In July as a captain. 
John Carney Is home again in St. Louis practicing medlolne after his extended Navy service. 
I T^ 9 Fentwood Road, Baltimore 13, Md. 
SERVIC^K DEAD, WOKI.P WAR II John F. Finn, San Antonio, Tex.; FVed "L. Morris, Mexico, Mo.; Franklin D. Roosevelt, Washington, I>. C, IX'D.. '35; Raymond J. She<^ SprinsfleM, Mass. 
From Uoch: Another trip to press has rolled around but our news is pretty sparse. Kxcept for a card that came froni Tom Proetor directly after we sent in our last stint, no word has seeped through from the '3Sers. 
Tom sent a card from Omaha on Sept. 8 as follows: "Am on the last leg of a seven weeks trip over the entire west coa.st and far west for my company. Got as close to you as Hous­ton, Texas. Things In the west are sure boom­ing. Will be back in New York Sept. 17. . - •" 
The card was sent to our old address in New Orleans which makes sense in relation to Tom's reference to Houston. Since we are expecting to be In the 'Tiig town" from the 21st to the 24lh of November, we will call Tom and find out ivhat he is doing. It will also give us an opportunity to call more of the 'SSers who were in the armed forces when we tried to contact them a year ago In New York. 
At a Notre Dame club meeting a few months ago we ran into Roy Scholz who is a very prominent eye surgeon in these parts. Roy Is carrjing on some ophthalmological research. It was interesting^ to discover that the Schoizs and the Hochs are neighbors, living only a block apart. Roy married a pediatrician. "Su­sie" by name, who brings North Carolina charm into the Scholx household. "Freddie" is the Intelligent young offspring,, now about 14 months old and looking very much like hla learned father. 
How about a penny postal from all of you to let us know what you are doing. We want, and we know that you do too, to know how we are all lining up now that we are "gradually" re­turning to normal in this country. The *35 col­umn has suffered from a lack of news these many months. The column can only be what you make it. When we read the columns of the other classes around our time and much later We measure up rather poorly. So. how about it, gang? 
AValter Brown has been separated from the 

Air Force after 42 months of service. Early in 
September he married Anne M. Gannon, also a 
native Philadelphian. 
Tom Flynn is In Honolulu with his wife and 

three-year-old daughter and Is working In the 
legal division of the FBI. He urges us to get 
Hoch "back on the '35 beam." 
Arnold 3Iorrison is an architect in Rochester, 

N. Y., after a lengthy Navy tour. 
1936 JOSEPH F. HAMSUKU). Mmtioilia Broadcastinc Co., 30 BockeMIcv Plaza, Badio City, New Tork, M. T. 
SERVICE BEAD, VTORUt WAH U 

Georce YT. Ball, Oaledonia, N. ¥•; Artbnr J.' Chadwick, Amitj-ville, N. Y.; Rer. Aquinas T. Colxan, O.Oann., ClucaKO, 111. (Graduate Sta-dent, 1933-36); John V. Flynn, WHUnston, 
D. C; John J. McCIoskey, West Fhlladelphla. Fa.; Donald R. StcKay, Tanco, N. D.; NeK. ton I.. Mathews, Chicnco, III.; Joseph P. Pren­dersnst. Ware, Mass.; James J. Qninn, Colmn^ bia. Fa.; Daniel J. SnlliTan, SpiincSeld, BIoss, 
Father Flrancis I,, Sampson has been as­signed as a chaplain at Fort Bragg, N. C. Awarded the Distinguished Service Cross, the Bronze Star Medal and tne Purple Heart, Fa­ther Sampson was one of the outstanding chaplains of the war. He landed in Prance on D-Day as chaplain of a paratroop division. 
Father James R. Comean, O.F., was ordained to the priesthood in June, 1946. He is at the Dominican House of Studies in River Forest. III. 
Fred Flynn, recently separated from the Army as a lieutenant colonel. Is living in Wash­ington. D. C. 
John I.anKfana is (or was) a prosecuting at­torney with the War Crimes Trials in Japan. 
Jim O'Meaia, with the W. M. Sprinkman Corp. in Milwaukee, stopped Into the Alomm Office on Nov. 14 to say hello. 
Vince Mttle recently made the "Saturday Evening Post" War Anecdote column with his short account of a "Touchdown for Pad.re." 
FR.\>'K J. REILI,Y, MaeKair-Doi^ 1937 land Co., 25* W. 31st St., Ji'ew Tork City. 
SERVICE DEAD, WORLD WAR II 

Richani J. Carroll, Chicago, III.; Thomas F. Durfcin, Cleveland, Ohio; Joseph C. Foley, Dal­las, Tex.; Frank R. HnlskinK, Hnntiacton. I>I.. >-. Y.; Fergus F. Kelly, Jamaica, !J. T.; fjario 
J. Marinello, Buffalo, N. Y".; John C. Metealf. Onluth, Minn.; Josepli F. Riley, Wnrton, W. Va. 
Fiom Frank Rellly: The Army-N.D. game week-end had ail the earmarks of the 1937 commencement; New York City was loiided with our classmates last Friday. Saturday. and Sunday. With that in mind and before the pocketful of notes I've been making during the past three days disap­pears I'll take tonight (Blue Monday following one of the nicest week-ends since that glorious one In June, '37) to write the column out of my system. Where to start? To avoid charges of favor­itism, let's do the thing chronologically. We 
go back to Oct. 3, when a letter from Wait Xitamker, president.of the Notre Duaa Club of Greater Cincinnati, was written. Walt Inqnlied about the social schedule for the big week-end. and mentioned that a number of his Clndansti boys went up to the Illinois same. Althou^ Walt's letter is written on N.D. Club statloaerjr, the envelope bears -the trade mark of FaTorite Back Stays Co., Cincinnati, where I presume Walt is worldnc. If. Walt was in New York for the game I didn't see or hear from him. 
. Another letter, this dated Oct. 14, arriTed 
- from Jaha Bmndl, and was written on tbs ­letterhead of Bendiz Products Divislan of Ben. dix Aviation Corp., South Benil-.What I beilere is Johnny's home address, 1302 N. Elmer St.. South Bend, waa contained on the letterhead. He wrote: "The thing that prompted this letter to you is the possibility of getting together with the '37ers at the Army game. I am nearf­lly In favor of meeting if the same can be ar­ranged. I have been out of circulation so long it certainly will be a'pleasure to see such smil­ing Irish faces as AI Bride's (an old roomie of mine), Haley's, Keajrwi's, ». Bilejr'*, Haa­aiag** (if he is still around) and yours, Frank. [Unfortunately. I didn't see or hear anything from Johnny, although I did reply to his letter and asked him to get in touch with me.] 
"I got oufof the Navy in March and returned to my old job here at Bendix. I waa located In Philadelphia during. the war. I have two sons,'Tlmothy J. (six years) and John J. (seven months), the latter a Quaker, having been bom In Phlily." 
The day after Johnny Brassell's letter waa written, Oct. 15. we had quite a turnout for our Tuesday luncheon at the Hotel Woodstock Among the '37 fellows present were Dr. naa k Hardart. now on the staff of St. Vincent's Hos­pital In New York. Frank is unmarried and lives In Forest Hills, I..I.. N. Y. Frank hasn't changed In appearance since his picture In the 
•37 "Dome." Geoe lin g of Hollywood was the guest of honor. He was loaded with .news of our classmates who populate the West Coast. I'll get to them In a minute. Pinky Ainll, WUfced Kirk, Justin MsCana—whose wife re­cently presented him with a second son, Ste­phen John, which makes it three for the Mc-Cnnns of Brunxvllle—were on hand, too, Bok Wilke, George Ijuw and I rounded out the list of the '37 group. 
Here's what Gene told me of the fellows In California: Jack Heaia, once of Dillon. tr.<3.l:.A. and Niles. Mich., is operating a haberdashery shop In Beverly Hills. Mustn't be doing too well, though, because Crosby is still going without a necktie. (Incidentally. Jack, were yoo ever able to sell that Indian bathrobe you 
-wormed out of me?) Others taking Breeley's admonition seriously, according to Gene, are "Pappy" Joe (KNcffl. Phoenlxvllle. Pa., who was graduated from football Into the FBI and now is In the paper and twine business. SmA McOarit of MInersville. Fa., is seen in the Hollywood environs serving with the IT. S. Army Intelligence. 
Gene further relates that Bok WaMefk baa forsaken Lakewood. C . to sift his economic fortunes with a chemical. firm In California. Hago MelcUaae is continuing his art work, which he dropped to go into the Army, and is back designing sets in the movie capltoL Gcae ling. Incidentally, and he didn't tell me this, has done very well for himself In "Holly­wood in case you have not been to the cinema lately. He's written a couple of very success­ful pictures. One. If I'm not mistaken, was "Fighting Ifldy." dealing with.the exploits of the Carrier "Lexington." Gene was in New ­York for the Army fme and some-consulta­tions and works on a forthcoming picture. (That "Army,game" juxtaposition is mine. Gene, in case the Boss wonders.) Gcae aa4 Hago Md­eUoae were in art school together. Hugo, inci­dentally, has been out of the Army since sum-; . mer. He Is not married. I think that Gene's . family status has been posted in this column previously. Three bosrs and a One wife is the 
score, as I remember it His Hollywood home was quite a reunion centerfor the't>oys during.^ ; the war. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Also from the Woodstock luncheon: is that 
Bill Foley is an assistant district attorney in 
Kings County, N. Y. (BrookljTi to you mugs). 
They tell me Bill's picture was on the front 
page of the "New York Daily News" recently. 
Next, in chronological relation to the Army 
game, is a letter dated Nov. 4 and written by 
Tony O'Bosie, who is living at 1166 Wyoming 
Ave., Forty Fort. Pa. Tony writes: "Inasmuch 
as I have heard from several of the old '37 
crew recently I thought the time was ripe to 
keep a promise I made to Bill Dooley that I 
would send along some data for your 'Alum­
nus' column, Jim O'Donnell is. as you probably 
know, a barrister. At present he is living on 
Long Island and has offices on Whitehall Street 
in New York City. He is married and the father 
of a charming youngster. 
"William 'I^cfty' Jordan Is with the U. S. Engineers in Chicago. He. too. has trod the marital aisle and is now raising another fu­ture first baseman for N.D.'s baseball club. Jack 'Zeke* Cackley wrote yesterday. He is with the Government's Treasury Department bond division. The job is great, according to the ex­trombonist's latest report. Vince BIcCoola, re­cently discharged, is in avid pursuit of addi­tional educational credits at one of our nearby colleges. Heard indirectly that (Father) Joe English is doing splendidly in his priestly field. (Check and double check, but more about him later.) Few of us, I giiess. will do in our field as well as Joe will do in his field. 
"Tom Brock, '41, has turned In a magnificent job in his first coaching assignment here at EUngs College in Wilkes-Barre. The college is the latest branch of the N.D.-C-S.C. educational tree. 
"The thought occurred to me while writing this that I could save the chatter and give it to you personally at the Rally this coming Friday evening." 
Thanks, Tony, and I'm glad you did mail it-I missed Tony at the Rally. 
Jack Hnriey, my old roommate, wrote to me on the sixth to say that he would be in town for the game. 
This brings us up to sometime Friday after­noon, the day be^pre the game. Through our good friend. Father Cronan (Bob) Kelly, 0,FJf., '37, I was able to get next to a room for the week-end at the Hotel Commodore. He was with me while I registered and while we are there, up strolls a familiar face. Ah, Ha! I've got It now, Marty Behr of Rochester and the class of 1936. A little later on the same day I got In the elevator to go up to our room. when I saw another familiar face. This time It was the South Bend undertaker (really) Iioa Hickcy. liOu and his wife were in town for the big week-end, too. 
After dinner. Shirley [Jilrs. RJ and I headed for the Waldorf and the Rally and Reunion. There the first person we ran into was Ed Korke of '38. Ed looks very well, especially considering he was a prisoner of the Japs for three and one-half years. A year and a half or that time was spent in a nickel mine in northern Japan. On V-J Day, Ed's group had to send a small group of men out to find Amer­ican troops to come and liberate them. That 
N.D. men are made of stem stuff can be gath> ered from Ed's survival of such rough treat­ment as he was accorded on the Bataan death march and one of those death cargo trips to Japan. Ed did not go through the epic of Cor­regrldor. but was captured in the northern part «f the Philippines. Later, with his outfit, engi­neers, and one of the first draft groups to hit the Philippines (1940), he was taken to Manila as a prisoner and then returned to the northern section of the Islands. From tnere he went to Japan. 
Ed has just recently been discharged from the Army, after a spell of seven months In various hospitals where he has been treated for dysentery and malaria. He Is living in New York, but expects to go to Baltimore, where he is groinir to take up work. He looks very well, considering. . . . 
From the lobby of the W.A. we went up to the grand ballroom, scene of the Rally and Reunion. Enroute I tagged Bob and Mrs. Wilke, Ed and Ruth Hoyt* Tom and Helen Hughes, Ed and Mrs. Hoiskiiig, Taihtr Joe English, M. M> an^ Joe McNally. Our table was headquarters for the Hoyts, the Hashes, BcU-Ijrs, Ed Borice, the Joe Schillings and friends of the Hughes-Schilling combination. Joe and Tom have gone into business for themselves as manufacturers' representatives here in New York. Tom Hughes has been with Continental Can Co, for about the past two years, and be­fore that he was with Crown Can Co., Birds­eye Frozen Foods and Reld's Ice Cream Co. Joe, who recently shed his naval ofiicers* uniform, was with Proctor & Gamble and, I believe, the Birdseye people before going into service. The combination, to be known as Schilling-Hughes, will have headquarters at 1192 Broad­way and already has taken over several good lines of merchandise. Good, luck, boys! 
I had an idea Don Hanning .would be in Lima, Peru, by this time, but he and the mis­sus bumped into us on the dance floor. We also saw Jock Broderick, ot R. H, White Co. and Republican Boston, and I'm sure Ed Fox, Chicago, danced by. not with each otlier. to be sure. 
Visitors to the table included Paul and Mra Barker who came down from Rochester for the game; Jim Qulnn, now of Lancaster. Pa., and 
R.C.A. Jim's home Is Bloomfield. N. J., but since 1942 he has been in Lancaster with R.C.A. Before that lie worked for the company which he has been with since graduation. Jim says he Is unmarried. Hank Pojmon of Chicago, fellow law student and roommate of Cliff Brown, came over to say hello, as did Harry Pierce, the soft drink man. Speaking of Harry, you naturally think of Boots McCarthy, who was on hand, of course, surprisingly in civvies, which reflects the lifting of the ban on that type of apparel for naval personnel now that the war is over. Roaming around with Jim Qoinn, we met Ed Neaher, Pinky and Mrs. Carroll, Bill Fallon, IJOU and ^Irs. Hlckey and Jerry Gillespie. 
Later, on the way out. we bumped Into Jim Waldron who reported that he has just put up his law shingle and opened oflices in home town. Trenton, N. J. Jim spent some time in the FBI, and later was an OSS man. 
At the game on Saturday, Joe Callahan, *38. sat a few rows behind our party. He was the only familiar face at the game. On the ^vay out of the stadium I bumped (literally) into the Wilkes While on the elevated subway platform we ran into Joe Qoinn of Newton. N. J., (not married). Jerry Claeys of South Bend. Jim Murphy and others. Jack Hurley and sister Helen were on hand for their date with us after the game and we had a really wonderful time rehashing the days of yore. Jack had been out to school for the Purdue game, where he met Jack Togncy, Zcke Cackley (I think he said) and IValt Nienaber. In the lobby of the Commodore, where we had met the Hurleys. I bumped into Chock Sweeney, '38. On another swing around the Commodore lobby I recog­nized Julius Bocca, 'SS, of Elizabeth. N. J., and his party. The Roccas have three daughters! they report, thus making It tougher for Eddie Cantor. Following dinner that night and break­fast and Mass in the City, a very wonderful week-end ran out. 
Afterthoughts: They tell me Joe Brendcer was in tow*n for the Rally and game, although It's still hearsay to me. Bemie Beilly of the '37 era was reported at the game. I heard a rumor that Jack Gillespie is working in New York and found it to be true. Jack is doing publicity for Carl Byoir & Associates. He still lives in Westfield, N. J., witn wife and child, and commutes to the City. Jack told me that Paul Foley is with an advertising agency in De­troit, and not in the Balkans for the AP as I had thought. Paul's fatlier, recently appointed National Housing Commissioner, is located In Washington, D. C. and was slated to address some group at the Roosevelt Hotel. Jack and I will have lunch within the next week and we'll see if we can't pin together a few more details about Jack's doings in the past few years. 
A recent release from the Packaging Insti­tute of New York states that E. P. HoisUBr. Couti Products Corp., Brooklyn, is scheduled to participate in a seminar on soap packaging at the eighth annual meeting of the Packaging Institute at the Hotel Stevens, Chicago, Nov. 25 and 26. That sounds as though it would be brother Ed. Another '37 man who was listed for a speaking chore recently is Vince HartncCt of Pelluun, who spoke at a rally condemning the "trial" of. Archbishop Stepinac of Yugo­slavia. Vicce's veterans group in Pelham is very active and 1 suspect that Vince has a lot to do with its being that way. Vince and fam­ily, incidentally, recently moved to 56 Archer Drive, Bronxville, N. Y., from 42 Harmon Ave., Pelham, N. Y. Another oddment of information picked up recently about one of our boys con­cerns Joe Moore of Bloo'mfield, N. J. Joe is as­sociated with the C.Y.O. here in the City. We should have some more dope on Joe. How about it, Joe? 
James OsKOod is in Okinawa at the present time as a civilian representing Aetna .Insur­ance Company. He was released from the Navy as a lieutenant In June. 1946. He plans to be there for a year. 
Vic Wojciliovski, after a long tour of mill* tary duty. Is at Mt. St. Joseph High School, as director of physical education and athletic di­rector. (Baltimore). 
10^f t HAROLD A. \\1LUA>1S, 4323 Mar­
* ' ^ O Me Hall Rd., Baltimore, Hd. 
SERVICE DEAD, WORIJ> WAR II 
Robert T. Browne, Peoria, III.; John J. Bmfce, Bivcr Forest, 111.; Pierre B. de la Vcrsme, New Orleans, La.; W. Kyle Donnell, Uadsay, OUa.; Daniel P. Fteley, South Bend; WilUam M. Fox, South Bend, Ind.; J. Gregory KcUy, Chlcaco, HI.; Omer A. Kelly. Algona, Is.; llieodf>re J. Knnsman, Oak Faric, HL; Oliver K. McHahon, Bockville Centre, N. T.; JaaMS IL. Molcahy, Tannlon, BHass.; IVancis V. Qvadceabash, Albany, N. Y.; Ambrose I. Rice, SoBth Bend, Ind.; John W. Roach, Jr., Musca­tine^ to.; Robert J, Slmonds, South Bend, Ind.; Leo F. Wddi, Indianapolis, Ind. 
From Hal Williams: Vague and somewhat incoherent notes from the Army game week-end, scribbled along the edges of a railroad timetable and on the Itack of an envelope provided by Joe Callahan: 
Under general impressions I have four key words: wives, waists, wind, and who. Wives: At the 1939 New York gathering the few wives sat alone—abandoned, silent, and bewildered by the backslapptng and the joyful reminiscences of their normally quiet husbands. This year the wives—everyone seemed to have a wife—gath­ered like old bridge partners, chatting merrily about babies, income taxes and their husbands' old friends from Walsh Hall. The wives' dele­gation looked like a contented ladies' auxiliary. Waists: (I want to be delicate and Wnd about this) Your waists, fellows, are beginning to bulge. 
And yotu* hair, like a South Dakota wheat crop in a drought year, runs thin. Wind: You don't have the wind, the stamina, that you had when you ran for the 11:45 p.m. streetcars. You seemed content to sit in one chair all evening. Just like the boys from '08. About I 
a.m. I noticed you yawning and looking at your wrist watches. Who: Memories are dimming. Most conversations were opened with an apolo­getic, **I remember your face, but . . ." One thoughtful classmate confided that he had scanned the pictures an^ names In the "Dome" just before he left home. But enough of thia I don't have to tell you that you are getting old, that it's been eight long years. On to the names: 
The first one I bumped into at the Waldorf Astoria rally Friday night was John Kelley and his wife Boz. John, who cautioned me to spell his name with that extra, dlernlfled "e," looks fine. He says that his hair is coming back. John spent five years in the Army. Then there was Mr. and Mrs. Dick 1%ora (with Westing­house in Buffalo; tvro children). Mr. and Mrs. Hanr Norris, Jim BlaDt (finishing up medical school at Boston XT.). Ed Vniache (out of the service and studying law at Columbia), BU] Uyland (in the freshman class with us). Gene Dolan (working in Troy. X. T.; two children), G«oise Bdanser (working in New York for his father and living at the McAlpin Hotel), Vic Mercado (still In New York, but planning on going to Washington or Central America in the near future), Mr. and Mrs. Walt Duncan (she was a St. Marj-*s girl; they're living in ML Vernon, III. Oil business, I believe), Georxe Howard (up from Washington where he's run­ning his own Insurance business; George also is president of the Notre Dame Club there), Bill Galiln, Joe Marin (Grand Rapids, Mich.). Cas Vance (on the board of directors of the 

N.Y. club. Home address: 42 7Sth St., Brook­lyn 9, N. Y. Two girls: Gail. 3 and Mary Ann, 2), Walt Monacclli, "Chick" Gallagher and wife, Mildred (she's Joe Corcoran's sister). Mr. and Mra Jo© Corcoran (out of the Navy and traveling along the east coast for some com­pany) and Joe Callahan. 
Joe Callahan got out of the Army in No­vember, 1945, as a lieutenant colonel after five years of service, three years overseas. He la now working in the publicity department of Paramount Pictures, 1501 Broadway, New York. Joe reports that Bnnny McCormick Is'teaching and coaching In Wasco, Calif., and that Biggie Dibrienza is out of .the service, practicing in New York and the father of two. Someone re­ported that "Chock" Daley was present, but I did not see him. 
After the game at the crowded Penn bar: Mr. and Mrs. Clark Beynolds, "Bad" Kolp, Mr. and Mrs. Jack Cleaiy (back in Taunton, Mass.. after a long term in the Army), Dr. Dan Boyle, Charlie Dake (manager of the South Bend airport). Mr. anfl Mrs. Bass Hant, Phil Baer (he and Kolp were asking about Chariie Morrow), bounding John P. Mahoney of Ashtabula. O., Hank Theis (with Phiico), Tom Shells, Mr. and "Mrs. Bill Cour, Bnb Hack-man, Mr. and Mrs. Charlie Callahan, ^Ir. and Mrs. Geae Taslett (putting on a little weight, and his wife is getting worried). I*oa DaPra (an attorney for the Government in Washing­ton). Dr. lV>m Hashes, Art Phllson (gosh! we have a lot of doctors In our class). Chock Sweeney (working for an oil company In Pon­tlac, Mich., and officiating national league foot­ball games), Baal Hocfaes of Flint, Mich..' Mr. and Mrs. Itank Briirht, Jim SoUivan (92 Kast Orbls. Manessa, N. Y.), John J, Gorman, repre­senting the Detroit crowd. Jim Malhem, and, from other classes. liOke Tieman, Pat Gorman, Gre^ Bice and Joe Mulqueen. I heard that Don Hickey, CUff lUlman and Hany Fox also were present but I could not locate them. And I looked all over for them! 
There were a number of other classmates there. I have forgotten names (It was so crowded I couldn't get my pencil out of my pocket), and I am sorry, i hereby apologize. Everyone agreed that It was a marvelous re­union and about the biggest one yet. A number of the boya—and their wives—were making plans for the ten-year reunion at school. One more thing: I think special tribute should be paid to Mildred Gallagher, Roz Kelley, Marion Vaslett and Betty Vance for their faithful at­tendance year after year. I don't think they've missed a reunion. Mildred, Roz and Marlon at­tended several years while their husbands were overseas. 
And now for the Navy game week-end In Baltimore: Mr. and Mrs. John Baltes, of Nor­walk, O., (He married a Baltimore girl and she promised to make Baltes write us a let­ter.). Major and Mrs. Fenton Mee (Fenton, covered with decorations. Is staying in the Ma­rine Corps and is now assigned to the Judge Advocate's Department), Ed Brennaa (working as publisher's representative in Chicago and looking as prosperous as a Chicago banker) and Mr. and Mrs. £ d Hattingly (Box 56. Com­berland. Md., working for his father In the wholesale produce business and shooting In the high seventies in golf). 
Ed Brennan told me that he bumped Into Steve Dietrich in New York the latter part of October; Steve, an old journalism major. Is working for Cue Magazine. Bill Prendergast, I think he graduated in 1936. Is teaching In the Department of History and Government at the Naval Academy. He reports that our old friend. Bos Bedmte is teaching up in (Tonncctlcat and writing short stories on the side. Vlnce Be-Coorsey, '39, from Kansas City, also was pres­ent with his attractive wife. Also seen at the game were: Cos Vance, Pat Gorman (with wife whom he met In service; Pat's practicing law in Washington), Norman Duke (Chuck Dnke's brother). Charlie Callahan, George Howard, and , a few other whose names escape me at the 
moment. 
There Is only one communication in the files for this issue. It is written on Oliver Hotel stationery and the only Indication of a date Is the score: Notre Dame 49, Purdue 6. It reads: The class of '38 Is having its eight-year re­union in the Blarney Room of the Oliver. The roll call answers as follows: Jim Carson, Juhn­ny Poore, Eddie Kilraln, Charlie Brown, Geor^ Santer, George Schlaadecker, Phil Baer, Chariie Callahan. Charlie Duke, Don Hickey, Paal I^eahy, Walt Monacelli, John Marrin, Bad Kolp and Kilroy. 
That's all unless you fellows write some letters. 
Hev. Peter Sidler, O.S.B.. ordained to the 
priesthood in the Order of St. Benedict last 
June, returned to the Priory of St. Gregory the 
Great, Porthmouth, R. I., where he is assigned 
to the faculty of the Portsmouth Priory School. 
During the several years he has been a member 
of the Benedictine Order, Fatlier Peter has con­
tinued the art work he began at Notre Dame 
and much of the ecclesiastical art produced 
by the Priory art studios has been of his 
creation. 
Fred Williamson is with the Lamp Depart­
ment of General Electric Co.. Chicago. 
I Q^ O VI^'C^^^ DeCOCRSEYj 1917 Ellsa­
• ' ^ ' beth. Kansas City 2, Kans. 
SER^^CE DEAD, WOBU) WAB II Louis J. Bemlsh, Bochester. N. T.; Edward 
T. Clarice, Dcs Moines, la.; Francis X. Cfaube, Chicago, 111.; George B. Dempsey* Oshkosh, Wis.; PhiUp P. DiCrocco, Stapleton, N. T.; Francis T. Fanrll. Sooth Bend, Ind.; Floyd C. Grazier. Denver, Colo.; John B. Hartsodc, Al­toona. Pa.; Oliver F. Hriland, Jr., Wisconsin Dells, Wis.; I/ester B. Hoch, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Daniel B. Krily, Forest Hills, N. T.; Joseph 
E. Xeislng, BulTalo, N. V.; Donald C. McDon­ald, Wankegan, III.; Martin S. McGlnnis, Mem­phis, Tenn.; Bartholomew D. OToole, Chicago, III.; Robert J. lyToole, Pittsborgh, Pa.; Bobcii 
S. Schorsch. Chicago, HI.; Thomas J. Sengon, Boston, Pa.; Timothy Joseph Sinlb, Angosta, Ga.; Joha E. Walsh, Jr., Chicago, HI.; George 
A. Wolf. Hollidaysburg. Pa. 
Matt McShone, 1901 S. Crawford Ave., Chica­
go, was released by the Army last January. 
Xorman Biasseor has completed a course of­
fered by the Mutual Insurance Institute In 
Chicago. Norm served 38 months in the coun­
ter-intelligence corps of the Army. He repre­
sents the Associated Underwriters In South 
Bend. 
Dr. C. V. Barony back from 30 months serv­
ice in the Army ground forces, has begun a 
general practice of medicine and surgery in 
South Bend. 
Also opening a general medicine practice 
locally Is Dr. Richapfl A. Ganser. Dick served 
In the Pacific Theater with the Navy during the 
war. 
Ed Simonich turned out a winning football 
team at Catholic Central high school In Butte, 
Mont., this fall, winning sir and losing one. 
He coached at Carroll College. Helena, until the Navy took over the college daring the war. Ed is married and has two sons. 
BUI Hhrriiaa is with the United States Dis­trict Attorney's office in the District of Canal Zone. Ancon. He informs as that Joe VarHmg' ttm, *39, was married down there a few months ago. 
From Tiaee PeCearsey; From way ont In what used to he the good old Democratic (note the capital) mid-west, this long delayed bit of information on the ao­ings of the just-tumed-thirty boys of 1939. We managed to make a trip to the Navy game at Baltimore and bumped into quite a few of the boys who live around there or who could dig up a good excuse. As yet have haa no report from Mil DoaaHIy on the attendance of the Army game. The Notre Dame Club of Baltimore' ran a very nice reecptlon at the Merchants •Club after the game, but It did sound like the atomic age has arrived when the announcer at the game said that the Notre Dame men and their guests were invited to the "cocktail party" after the game was duly ran off. "Whitey" Hnnloii, (Bllne Safety Appliances Co.. lives In Washington) hadn't changed one bit since we last saw him seven years ago. Tat CuiSisa has opened his own law office in Wash­ington at 931 Washington Bldg. Both Pat and Whitcy are married. Bad Gartlacd and his wife took time off from the four kids to drop In from Marion and say that Hooper was now at Muskogee. Seen were: Pfcll Maloney, Hal Wil­liaitts, Jim Armstraw* Charica Callabaa (pub­licity at Notre Dame), Bo* Ortale, Tom Gatli­rie (who played end sometime around 1941) and others whom I will be able to remember distinctly day after tomorrow. 
The reason for attendance at the Navy game was the happy coincidence of a dairy convention at Atlantic City (at which, incidentally, we bumped into Tmm BMghes, now working for Continental C^an in New York). Jee Sckaidt, now with the advertising department of the "New York Sun," and Jokm TS/ermtj, with rftav­elers ( I think) had seats next to as at the game. Tiemey said he'd be out In Kansas City sometime this year, but to date, no show.­
nUher Gartlaad was in Kansas City the last of November giving a retreat at DeLaSalle Academy here. Had a nice visit with him at Doe Nlgra's house one evening. Geefirc K(H^ also was around. IMU Beardoa is still bat­ting out the policies at Employer's Mutual, and doing all the work as secretary of the Kansas City Club. His brother Ed, _of '37. Is with Thomas McGee and Sons (Insurance) and re­cently married. Toai HlgglBs, same year, is patting roofs over the homeless as a builder. 
Had a few letters since last time writing and looking for quite a few more around Christmas, so when yon feel the urge just drop a ctiTd and let ns know something about yourself and anyone you've bumped into or heard about. 
Al Scluaits is new supervisor of New York's department of new business for Western MIs­oari and the State of Kansas. Ijocated In the Federal Reserve Bank Bldg. here in Kansas City. Note from Bay Scfcleck's fathei^-Ray Is now married (on June 13, so now we have joint anniversaries) to the former Hiss Helen VanHoff and living in Schenectady, N. T., where Ray Is a traveling auditor for the Gen­eral Electric. 
Nice long letter from J«e Hafriacto*, Box 
831. Ancon, C^anal Zone, with lots of news. Joe starts off with a fuifiUed request to scold me from Mrs. Aai Baaf who was on her way to join her husband in IJma. Pern, where he works for Panagra. Now I know no reason why SCrs. Raaf should be angry with me. The last time I saw Jim was In company of my wife at the Officer's Club In Kansas City about 1944 and a very decorous evening was spent by all of tuL Especially Jim. So what Is this? Joe Haniactoa had made a quick phoae call last (mristmas when he was going through Kan­sas City on his way back to Panama, more or less dependent on whether the weather would allow. Time did not allow a visit, but he writer that on leaving the phone booth he bumped Into Jim <temlMUBi (whom we have seen since), a pilot for Mid Continent Air Lines. 
Says Joe further: "After I arrived in New Orleans. I had a, short visit with Kev, Fred Disby, who Is up to his neck in parish work. 
"Several days later, down in Central America. I met Batch Kamm at the airport at San Jose. Costa Rica. He was accompanied by his beau­tiful Latin American wife and was traveling in the interests of his Coca Cola Company of San Salvador. Butch promised to look me up on his next visit to Panama, but eight months have passed and there has been no -sign of our plump friend yet. 
"Charics ColSBn spent a month down here In Panama last year. We had several bull-sessions together, played golf and attended the Mari­time Day celebration together. He Is the best Spanish-speaking Irishman that I've met In Latin America. 
"Every once In a while the local belles in­quire of me as to the whereabouts of Fmnk fitch and when he is going to return to the Isthmus. I haven't heard from him since he left here, but I suppose that he Is well estab­lished back in Cherokee. 
"One night your fellow Kansas Citlan. Jack Zerfost, telephoned me from the Atlantic side of the Isthmus that he was passing through the Canal on a Navy vessel. Evidently he did not dock at our end because I heard no more from him. 
"Fraak. ntxpatrick has moved back to Cali­fornia and Jim Boaf told me that they crossea the Pacific together on the transport West Point. Baol Morrison was stationed on the Isthmus with the Marines, but since his de­parture i haven't seen anything In the class news about him. I miss Tom Hogan's annual visit to Panama which he had been in the habit of making each summer in connection with his company's (Hasklns and Sells) audit­ing work down here. During his former visits many an elbow was bent and he brought me all the news about our classmates around New York. At the Notre Dame-Tulane (1945) game I saw Tex Xonag and Uoyd Woiiey, but did not get a chance to talk with them about their recent experiences. 
"I should appreciate your checking with the class secretary of 1934 and get me the present address of John B. Gostisba, who spent several years here on the Isthmus and whose numerous friends are always inquiring about him.** (Inci­dentally, Joe married a girl from Panama about March sometime, but I am sure that has been reported. One of these days I hope to see her and repay some of the magnificent hospitality Joe put forth on our honeymoon trip in 1940.) 
Also a. nice long letter from Mnnrie I^eahy, apparently continuing his personnel work Into civilian life as emplojTnent manager for the Madison plant of Oscar Mayer and Co.. meat packers- Maurie and his wife saw the Purdue game at Notre Dame in October, took In the pep rally, and reports that the dome needs new gold leaf. He saw John Wintenneyer (where are you, John?). Jim Bocap (still single and apparently no entanglements in prospect), John Ference^ and Tom Kinr. 
After long deliberations over this tj-pewriter I have concluded that what this column neeas Is that which It Is supposed to have—news. Much as I would like to do so, I just can't find time to trot over the country picking up bits of in­formation. How about some letters from you 
•39erH? Most everj-one ought to be out of uni­form now, so drop a line telling us where you are and what you're doing. And how well you're doing at keeping up with Bud Gartland (see above). So till next time then, 
Mnce, 
VpA A BOBrabT G. SANFOBD, 1226 W. • *H W Wisconsin Ave., Bfilwaokee, Wis. 
SEBVICE BEAD, WOBLD WAB U 
lAwrenoe A. Barrett, Talparaiso, Ind.; Bar-old W. Borer, Grmt Necic, N. T.; James L. CarrDll, Anlmni, N. Y.; James T. Connell, New­port. B. I.; John I^ Crane, Jr., Bonkiric, N. T.; Philip £. Ooldoi, Bitdunond, Va.; Bldiard B. Kelly, Jr., Lorain, Ohio; Carroll A. Miches, Soath Bend, Ind.; Fanl A. Mullen, littsbrni;!!. Pa.; Joseph A. O'Brien, Springfield, Maes.; William F. O'Brien, Bivcr Forest, BI.; Charies II, O'Dcmnell, Gary, Ind. 
Edward H. Phelan, Jr., AThittler, Calif.; Francis W. Fieri, Blabanoy, Fa.; Eagrene A. FoUeto, Clinton, Ind.; Fanl E. Fnrccll, Salt Lake City, Utah; John F. Itoeers, Newarlc, 
X. J.; F^iuicis A. Schmied, Columbos, Wis.; Cletus >'. Schommer, St. Fanl. Minn. (Gradu­ate Student, 1938-40); Anthony J. Seaman, Greenville, S. C ; Norbcrt J. Spencer, Indianap­olis. Ind.; Harold B. Sweeney', Felham Blanor, 
X. Y.; James B. Veeneman, Chicago, HI.; John 
T. Von Uorz, Crystal Lake, 111.; DooKlas C. Weaver, Miomisburr, Oliio; George W^. Weber, Cleveland, Ohio; Thomas J. AVebster, Mishawa­ka. Ind.; Ralph G. Wlngfleld. Lynchbnrjr» Ta. 
Paul Unckman Is studying at St. Mary's 
Seminary in Cleveland. Keeran McKenry is 
now a partner with the South Bend Insulation 
Company-
John Herebry, recently out of ser\-ice. Is president of the Aviation Management Corpora­tion, Clilcago. 
Leo Hrachovec's football team at Catholic High, Elmhurst, 111., concluded a winning schedule this season. This was Leo's first year back at coaching after a hitch in the Navy as a lieutenant. 
Willixwi Cullen Fay attributes the idea for his first "Saturday Evening Post" article, "Pressbox Quarterback" (Nov. 23), to a fellow sports reporter of his on the "Chicago Trib­une," Ed Prell. 
Recounts Bill Fay: Wlien Ed told me about the possibilities of such an article, I suggested he send it to our agent—but he held off. Mean­while, I had helped him with suggestions for a couple of articles and finally he said: "You write the thing. Bill. I have a couple of things I like better." 
Bill says that he wrote It and it clicked. Ironically, the two Ideas Ed Prell thought bet­ter bounced. 
Drafted in 1942. Bill Fay worked his way up to a commission. He helped organize the first Pacific edition of "Stars and Stripes." Since his release by the Army he is back in sports with the "Chicago Tribune" and. along with Dave Condon, drawing by-lines regularly. 
Tom Leahy, Soutli Bend, brother of Fkank, recently was elected to the state legislature as a representative. 
Tom. Ford is a law student at Har^'ard Law Scliool. He expects to finish this coming Feb­ruary. 
10^ 1 ^^^ ^ ^^- PATTERSON, JR., 5530 I ' ^ I Darlington Bd., Fittsbnrsfa, Fa. 
SERVICE BEAD. WORLD WAR II 
fVank F. Byrne, Pboenixville, Fa.; John G. Casey, Jordan, Uinn.; Beno' B. Caudill, Faw­liuska, Okla.; Angelo DeMarco, Chicago, 111.; Homer W. Feiiguson, Wlnslow, Ariz.; Bernard 
J. Ferrj', Baltimore, Md.; James J. Ferry, Bra­zil, Ind.; Cliarles O. fisher, Indianapcrfis, Ind.; Roger C. Foley, Winthrop, 5Iass.; William G. Foley. Memphis, Tcnn.; Bichard E. Fox, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Thomas £ . Gallagher, Louisville. Ohio; John C. Grobmyer, Carrollton. Ky.; John 
C. Baffner, IndunapoUs. Ind.; John M. Ben­ness}-, Louisville, Ky.; Leo S. Btllebrand. Jr., Toledo, Oliio. 
William J. Kuntz, Waterloo, Ontario, Cana­da; Robert J. Letscher, Fort Arthur, Tex.; Gordon A. Love, BnlTalo, N. Y.; William F. Harsh, Htnes, Ore.; John B, Murphy, Eatl­grant, Mont.; James J. O'Brien, Elmhurst. 
N. Y.; John S. Powers. Ingalls, Ind.; Charles 
E. Beynolds. Mt. Carmel. Ul.; Charles B. Scblajer, Harrisbnrg, Fa.; Edn-ard J. Schreiber, Bochester, Minn.; James O. Schultheis, Tln­cennes, Ind.; Leo W. Shietds, Salt Lake City, Utah; John W. Smith, West Winfleld. N. Y.; 
NM I D . SMith, Faw Fftw, BOch.; Charies B. StapletoB, Brooklyn, N. Y'.; Robert F. Sasnet, Bvffalo, X. T.; Joseph B. Sallivan, Washington, 
D. C. 
From John Patterson: Out of the smoke and fire of the zero to zero standoff with Army comes a long list of 1941 graduates who got to New York for the game. The spotters who picked up all the names were CSiariie Billcm and my co-worker here at the Pittsburgh Press. Tom Powers. The list may be incomplete—especially Char­lie's because I copied it down in a telephone booth on three or four scrappy pieces of paper. But here goes.' Tom MMTison, 1941*s version of Senator Clag­horn, was there with Mrs. Morrison. The Dan­burj- liat machinery man, (who owes me a straw hat) Bobcrt J. Doran, was spotted at various locales. XD Law student Bill Carbine, Bichcy Meade, and Walt Diesrt were there. 
Taking time out from Army Medical Corps duties was Bill Clark. Bed HcGovem was still looking for hair-restorers. Jim Walsh showed up. 
The man who may well be 1941's number one papa—Hawley Van Swall, that Is—came along. The Van Swalls have two youngsters now, are awaiting the third. 
Jack Burke got away from ND Law School to see the game. And Bill McGowan, my boss on the "Scholastic," came over from Law School at Georgretown. 
Vnatk Lavelle was there with the better half as was Gene Byan with his Mrs. 
Cbariie Crimmins made It. And so did Bob Fitzpatrfck, Bnke Murphy, Georre Catter Ca Navy M.D.), Jim Murray, Tom Filffrim, George Fuzi. Bert Krtly, Bugh lAUglma, Lou Apone, Chndc GiUner, Genrre Bassas, John O'Langhlin. Bill Balcy, Frank McGroder, BiU Dunham (still with a short haircut), Tom Carty, Beine Schrenker, TCMU and George Miles and L J. Schaffner. 
- The word on Balph Gerra—who also saw the game—Is that he's gobbling up a law course at Columbia. 
The Navy game may or may not have been so well attended by the 1941 group. I madt» It and got to see only four other N.D. men. Tht.-y were all congrgeated at a party after the game. As big as ever was Vwtk Gorman, BIU and Jim McVey (also seen at the Army game) were there. And Don Hocan, all the way from Chi­cago, was in Baltimore with his very attrac­tive wife. 
Next note—a letter from Joe Stephen who k now, by his own admission, trapped In the field of publicity and promotion. After getting out of the Army—"I was everywhere from the Caribbean to Attu. with a 3S-month accent on Attu"—Joe landed a Job on a country weekly. Sort of a stop gap. He's now with Station KSCJ in Sioux City, la. 
Joe has run into Paul Santopietro, Ed Xally. *20, Mck Lamberto, '38, nnd Kelly Cook, '44. He would also like to report the birth of the Stephens' second daughter, .Sheila Mary on Oct. 
3. The first girl. Mlchal Rae, was born Dec. IS. 1942. Joe saw her for the first time when he was discharged in November. 194S. 
Since I'm always ending this piece with quer­ies as to where people are or witli a campaign for more mail, I'll pa;» the mike over to Joe this time. 
He would like to hear from Joe Nelhaus, Jim Moylan, Fred Ball, Ijon Betaer and FMnk Mc-Donongh. So would I, and from anyone elFe who has become lost by the wayalde over these past few years. 
Two late reports popped up in the mails Just as the "Alumnus" deadline passed by. One let­ter came from Capt. Walter Brennaa who Is doing neuropsychiatry for the Army in a little town just outside' of Bremen. Germany. The other rolled in from a correspondent who In­sists that he remain Incognito — although he Insulted' no one In his note. 
Walt has been 'overeeas since June. He sends a report that Bill Howland Is with the 121st General Hospital near Bremerhaven, that Jerry nroehlidi Is with the Station Hospital in Berlin. Chicago's m i Hennes^ has a brother con­nected with the Military Government in Berlin. 

The other correspondent (hereinafter referred to as Mr. X) has a few choice bits to add to this column's previous news on the Army game. In addition to Hawlir Van Swall, Balph Gerrm, the Blilm brothers. Bill Claric, Gene Byan, BUI McGowan (already mentioned), Mr. X ran Into Hal Borres and Al HooneT- in New York- He . reports that Hal is In Ohio learning the plimib-Ing business from the e>round up, that Al is 
coachlRgr 'somewhere East of the Hudson." 
At the Northwestern game Mr. X saw Sam meld who Is still with "Better Homes and Gar­dens" Magazine, still bothered occasionally by malaria. Maxtj Sbe« also saw the Northwestern affair and was celebrating a reunion with his brother who. at one time, was erroneously re­ported killed in action. 
Joe McXerthney, his wife and two children, are all on the campus. Joe still battles the law books. Howie Hssick Is getting ready to wel­come an heir In January-. BUI Daly is going to take the fatal matrimonial step. He will marry Martha Abberger. St. Mary's, 1941 class, and secretary to IV^her John J. Cavanatijch, presi­dent. 
Ray Qninn, according to Mr. X, is finishing I^aw School at ND this year. BUI Sfaanghressy is In Chicago selling plastics. Jock Woods is at ND getting his B.S. Jack Hennessy is finishing up engineering. Jack Lucas and ^lary stilt on Chicago's South Side, are expecting another baby. 
John CFDea is still "wandering around the Chicago stockyards with a thermometer," says Mr. X. Vap, Gehring- is going to Iowa Law School. 
John Murphy is located with the Newark Stove Co., Newark. O., as.a junior time and motion study engineer. 
Dud StoUer is working at Ball Band In Mlsh­awaka as of Oct. 1, 194C. Ho informs us that Joe Callahan is there with liim. 
Joe GnUtimut is living at 112 N. Washington Ave.. Dunellon, N. J., and working with RCA in New York. 
1942 WnXlAM E. SC.\NXON% Km. 833, 11 
S. l A Sulle St., Chicaso 3, lU. 
SERVICE DE.\D, WORIJ> WAR II 

William C. Adams, I«ookoat Mt., Tenn.; Her­rales Bereolos, Hammond, Ind.; Matthew A. Byrne, New York, N. Y.: Richard J. Coad. Green Bay. Wis.; Maiieau J. Cro^n, l4U» Ve^as, Nev.; Charles H. Dearer, Dasrton, Ohio; John 
P. Denney, Jr., Chicairo, HI.; Albert J. Fensel, Bradford, Fa.; Robert F. Unneran, Colambns, Ohio; Robert E. Fordyce. Gilman, HI.; James 
R. Hackner, IM Crmse, WLs.; William G. Hal-l«r, Doylestown, Ohio; Slanrice G. Heneanlt, Donlelson. Coim.: Robert L. Henjcel. Pierre, 
S. B.; Theodore M. Henke. Onkmont, Fa. 
Geoii^e R. Jackmnn, South Bend. Iml.; Jere­miah J. Klllijnww, Hobort, Ind.; Joseph A. Matson. Bolii-ar, N. Y^.; William J. 3IcJnnkin. Winnetka, HI.; Bonald B. 3IcNally, Winnetka. III.; F»ancis E. Mctzger, Seattle, Wash.; 3Iat­thew J. Miller. Chicago. HI.; M. Gordon O'Reilly, Jr., Chiraffo, lU.; Howard K. Fetschel. St. Paul, Minn.; JoMph M. Shields. Felhnm .Manor, N. Y.; Robert G. SmUh, Juliet, HI.; Robert D. Vander Horst, Celina, Ohio; Peter I>. Whelan, Henderson. Ky.; William R. WriKht, Sooth Bend, Ind. 
Cfie McHenna Is serving with Pan American Airways with his headquarters at the Manila Hotel, Manila, P. I. 
John Dinices, back from a-long grind In tnc Army Air Forces. Is on the staff of the Hins­dale (III.) "Doings." The suburban weekly (near Chicago, that Is) is published by C. D. 
F. Merrill, father of Cliarleei HerriU, '44. VKO D . RofFi is back at 3845 Imperial Ave.. 
San Diegd 2, Calif., after his discharge from the Army. 
Bob Hotton is now doing credit reporting with Dun and Bradstreet In Cleveland. IHck Oweas is with the Indiana National Bank In Indianap­olis. He visited the campus for the PurUue game on Oct. 13. 
Tom Foy Is back practicing law In Bay­ard, N. Mex., after 70 months service In the Army, 42 of which were spent In a Jap prison camp. 
From Mrs. Lashbrook: Having missed two numbers of the "Alum­nus," We will let this serve as a "comprehen­sive" report. 
Joe MUIer, ex-Navy lieutenant. Is an Instruc­tor In the N.D. College of Commerce, In the field of Business L*aw. Jerry O'Dowd, practicing In Fort Wayne, was one of the victims of the recent Republican landslide in his race for the State senate. 
Another in the same category is Joe Barr, who almost survived the landslide In his quest for the Illinois Senate. However,, his defeat went amost unnoticed In the Barr household because of the timely arrival of twin sons, Joe and Jim, making the year 1945, memorable in his life. In exactly a year, he was returned from Marine duty In the Pacific, passed the Illinois bar examination, was discharged, was married, opened a law ofiice, ran for the' Sen­ate. an<x became the father of twin sons. 
Al Cholis is practicing in South Bend, and was recently appointed attorney for the OPA Rent Control office. BiU Syrlnir was a visitor here several weks ago. He Is to practice In Washington^ D. C. Jini Daner was here for the Northwestern game, looking prosperous and professional. He Is practicing in Mount Clem­ens, Mich. 
Louis Anderson is out of the Army and is taking some refresher courses as a preparation for practice. Lawrence Fei^rason has opened a practice In South Bend, and is sharing an office with Maurice Frank. 
John Boty spent some time on the campus a month or so ago. en route to his home from a vacation trip in the East. Reports from New York advise that he was among those present at the Army game and attendant festivities. 
Jim and BUI McVay have been taking a re­fresher course In Philadelphia this fall. Jim has been admitted, and Bill will complete the bar examinations In time to be here for the South­ern California game. Bill Span^Ier has a nice practice In Gary, Ind., and has been over for a visit on several occasions. John Barry is living in South Bend with his family and Is presently working with an insurance company here. 
Bob SoUivan has accepted a position with the government and Is moving his family from Cleveland to his native state of Montana. Bob now has a son and a daughter, the latter hav­ing arrived in June. 
Hal .Hunter has promised to attend the Southern California game with his wife and two children. Hal Is practicing in New Madrid, Mo., where he holds. In addition to his prac­tice, the position of city attorney. 
According to a report from mutual friends. Joe Tavery is living in Qulncy, 111., where he is serving in an executive capacity for a Qulncy corporation. 
We have had dozens of Inquiries for news of Mike Stepovicli, and a number of reports as to his location and activities. About the only thing agreed upon by our informants is that he is in California, out of the Navy, and living on a ranch. Any official and direct information about Mike will be promptly distribute.! to the inquirers. 
Pete Alonzi Is reported to have been present at the recent Illinois Bar examinations. Pete was married some time ago In Chicago. 
^OAO SHWARD C. RONEY, 1733 Irt>qaols I TH ^ Ave.. Detroit. Mich. 
. SERVICE DE.4D. WOULD WAR II 

James B. Bassett, Toledo, Oliio; Charlet* F. Bebeau. Muskeffon. Mich.; Vito W. C^>pello. Brooklyn, N. Y.: Milton R. Connelly. Chiraco. 
m.; BtrfcarJ J. <Mtcr. Biv ShHC^ N. T.; 
K. One. BMt Hftvc% CMM.; Biwwd SL JD«vle> MoRiito>«is, IT. J.; Kcmelk • . I»i«r. CUci«^ ni.; Bmmmtme M. WUe, StfM^ KMM.; Bakot 
A. Haehcr, W—WTSM , Wia.; BufcMl S. SlTaB*. Qatacr. 10.; !« • A. V^iadmms Caam>aHB, OMa; rhlUp B. HMfeot* Ptek Kidse. m.; 1 iiii •• 
J. HeiTiKea, Lake Wmnsk, HL; Henhcl G. Wariom, Aaraia, ID. 
ftal Baiihfwv I A Futr, Ind.; Walter J. Koncas, Chic«c<N HL; Charles T. I«ewis» FU1»­delpUa, WtLt Mmn C. MeCrtdrick, tiAmUwu, Fla.; Joha J. UcKeaa, PMIadilphia, F».; Sd­ward J. MeKim, Oawh^ Nefer.; Raymond J. McMaau, Jr.. TadJaaapeHn. Ind.; Joha A. MUler. SMrth Bend, lad.; Geowe E. Marpliy, Sovth Bead, lad.; Georse Bf. O'Conaar, Ghkm­mo. Hi.; Wayae J- CConnor, Abordeen. S. D.; Mtmrj C. Friester. Jr., DaTcapart, la.'; J. WD-Uaaa MtynrntOs, AsberUIe, N. C; Biehard A. SchUts, BUlinss, Mant.; Roheri E. Sehoo, Laida-Tllle. By.; Otto J. Scifert, Jr., New ITfaB, Mlaii.; Jalu W. Shea, Faashkeepsie, M. T.; Joha F. Sp>ac«e, Saaayside, Wash.; Ar^da C. Stranv, Jr., Aaacoada, Moat.; John K. Walsh, Dearer, Colo.; Joha J. Whdan, BlaaailMd. 
N. J.; John H. Wlffhain. CoTinictoB, Ky. 
Bob OrerBBeyer is working for the Shellmar Products Co.. Mount Vernon, C. and is m&kinff excellent progress as a chemical engineer in plastics work. 
From Ed Boaey: This edition conalsta of two letters and a re­cap of the Notre Dame-Army week-end. It won't be too good as those letters of yoora ' aren't coming in as they should. Don't know what I can do to increase them but wUl keep trying. How about some help? 
The place to find '43 men seems to be wher­ever the team is playing. About 45 of them showed up in New York for that Army game. A few brought their wives and some had dates when I saw them. And Just about everyone thought it was the second best game they'd ever seen—the best being that ND-Iowa Sea-hawks game in 1942. 
The first letter arrived from a long-lost fel­low from Chevy Chase. Md. That's right. BUI Kecaan. He writes: 
"As a result of a contribution to the Alumni Fund (long overdue) pve received & copy of the 'Alamnus,' the first I've seen. It was indeed good to read your account of the class in the August issue. My congratulations and gratitude for the pleasant and thorough way you're han­dling the thankless and time-consuming Job which was handed yon three years ago. 
"I was* in' Chicago last Jane and at the same time visited the campus the day of Commence­ment. Everything was breaking np and I had no chance to register but in the coarse of my wanderings around the X/iop during the follow­ing week I saw Boh Ncaaa and Art Kaxthelscr. Bob was on the verge of his H.D., via the Navy, and was at Holy Cross Hospital. Art had recently returned from Japan after some months of sea duty and was out of the service. His plans were nebuions bnt he seemed still to have a taste for scotch. 
'The previous November In New York I ran into the then lA. Jae HOIetaaad whose Job at the moment was helping to keep some doomed. derelict tied to the Brooklyn Navy Yard docks tmtii the Navy found some place to scuttle her. . Joe was a little sad because he'd seen a lot of duty aboard her. I haven't seen Joe since. tHe's now studyiDff at the University of Chicago. —Eds.] 
"Otherwise the past three years have been remarkable for the number of N.D. men I didn't run into. During them I palled detail in Mississippi as a CIC Investigator, In the U.K. and Iceland as a cryptographer and back In the states In Alabama. Texas, and New York as what, for want of a polite name, had best be called a second lieutenant. My bitterest memory l3 V-J day. I was in OCS and that night they broke their hearts and let as go to a PX movie. 
*Tm presently at Qeozvatown In Washlncton and will be in Harvard I*aw School In Febm­
ary. Unmarried, happily civilian. P.S. Jack Ueislcr has his M.D., is married, a father, and is practicing in Philly." 
Thanks, Bill for the fine remarks and news. 
Write again when you can. 
Xow to get back to that Army week-end. Friday night the big Rally at the Waldorf pro­duced plenty of people but the first place I stopped was the Commodore bar and at one table were Joe Tracy, and his older brother, S^unk Kimkle, and Jim Godfrey. Godfrey had come up from ND and Joe and Frank were enjoying a little time off from their Columbia studies. 
They said that Bob Ilackett is studying for his master's at Penn; Tom 0\Malley from Sche­nectady is In sales work; John Hunt, studying journalism at Columbia an^ hopes to get on a New Tork paper when finished; Dick Powers, an Knglish student at Columbia; Bill Herzog, working for Wright Aero Corp. somewhere in Jersey; and Bed Shortsleeve married in St. Pat's, South Bend, the day of the Purdue game. 
Another table had Bill Ungushick, Frank Wiethoff and Jack Morrison. They said that Tom Courtney was working for his dad in De Kalb, 111. I<efty Coppin is fiylng tlie Pan Amer­ican San Francisco-Shanghai run. He has a new daughter around the house. Then Wiethoff ad­mitted a newly arrived daughter. Bob Madden is doing supersonic research at tlie Ames labor­atory in San Jose, Calif. Dippy Ei-ans Is play­ing pro ball with I«ou Kymkns on the Cleve­land Browns. Ollle Hunter is working in the air traffic cargo division of Pan American at La Guardia Field. Fred Goosen was married in late October and is also a Pan American man in IC. T. Don Gay is working for his master** degree at M.T.T. Mel Rnmmell is a special project engineer at Pan American. Ed 3IcXa­mara had a family addition about a year ago. I>ank Conforti, Tony Maloney and Jim McFl­roy are working in N. T. 
At another table John Doerr and his bride looked very happy. They were In the middle of their honeymoon. Joe O'Brien was standing at the bar all alone and said hello as I passed by to see Bob Koffere and his data 
That finished up the Commodore so I headed over for the Waldorf and the big annual Notre Dame rally. First man I saw over there was Mike Oomcrford trying to get into the rally through three sets of PInkerton police. He was successful as X was, for I had a swell chat with Hike and his very lovely wife later on. Just Inside the door was a table with Bill Scully, Bill Johnson, and Fanl Fisher. Scully Is ap­pearing in Finigan's Rainbow, a Broadway musical, while Paul is in the "Veterans Adminis­tration and may enter the Georgeto^vn Foreign Service school. 
Jim Maber, (a guy named Bob I can't re­member now and whose name I can't read in my notes) and Tbm Conley were also just in­side. Jim's at Haskins and Sells, Tom's at "Wharton Finance school, and that Bob is just out of the Navy. Must be at least ten Bobs just out of the Na\-y. so that's helpful. 
A real gang of '43ers were at the Rally: Dan Gniney with Chilton Publishing Co.; Jack Hnnt from Columbia; and Han?* 0'3Iealia whom I didn't see but wlio has his own out­door advertising company In Jersej-. 
At that point I ran into two pretty girls m the persons of Duff Miller. Tom's sister, ana Frannie Cummlngs, the Rajah's sister. As most of the Chi. gang have writer's cramps I pumped Fran for information. She provided the following: Bob McOalTerty was married in No­vember, 1945, to Margaret Homuer and made it three with a daughter in October. Jack Grif­fin is working for a loan company in Indiana. Bed Connor was presented with a daughter in October. Bob HaiJcPcr Is at Penn Grad School. Quince Stnnn Is another Haskins and Sells man In Chi., and the Rajah Is to be married Jan. 4 to Nancy Berthold in Chicago with Frannle a bridesmaid. 
Saw Giis Burke about ten minutes later but he had the same info as the girls except to say he was working for his dad In Chicago. Bill Johnson then got around to saying he was working In N. T. for the Winkler Moving Co., while Tony Malonry showed up with "Virginia Zak to say that he was one of the Pan Am crowd in N. Y. and they were to be married in February. 
Jim Cooney was there In a Xa\-y Medical officer's uniform and Cy Donigan said that he was working for the American NewsjKiper Ad­vertising network. Ed Hanrahan was at the rally. He came down for the week-end from Harvard Law School. 
Don Miller and his pretty wife said hello. Don Is enjo5*ing Harvard Law school. He sa"d Jack Tallett will be married In January to Kay, and he's still at Michigan Law. 
Others at the Rally were Bill Nicholson, Ol­lie Hunter, Dr. Bill O'Connell, Walt Kraviec, Harry Wriffht, who is coaching football and basketball at Aquinas in Rochester; and Nell Green Is Harrj-'s right hand man. 
l*at Grogan, down from Cornell Law, ap­peared in high spirits. We talked about old Morrissey Hull days. He told me to stand by for an announcement as he had his eye on THE girl. Pat said he's seen Jack Edwards in Pitts­burgh and tliat Jack Du^an was in Pitt engi­neering. 
Other bits of news picked up here and there from almost cverj'one at the Rally are: Jade Hedges is In the funeral business in Rochester. John Henry is a purple-heart ex-Marine In Toledo. Gene Fehlig expects to be a father again soon and won the Montana golf cham­pionship. Jim Murray is waiting to s'art Co­lumbia law. There's a new New Yorker named Donald Joseph at the Frank Huberts. Fan! Pfieffer is working for his father in Mauland. 
N. Y. Jim McEIroy is at the American Broad­casting Co. Ed Nichols Is with Frank & Simons department store and ^*** Marcin is part of the McCreerj- department store. Art Kirby is in Lima, Peru. Jack Sherer is an architect in 
N. Y., while Bill Sherer Is a prof at N. D. Bill Hombure was in an accident in August and spent six weeks in a cast. Bob 3Iurphy is in an Aero Eng. job in California. Ralph Vinci­gnerra was in N. Y. a short time ago on his way to the West Coast- Charley O'Lrary Is coaching at Roger Bacon, Cincinnati. Jim Clemens Is back at N.D., with his new daughter. 
Every radio program and newspaper has Its advertising, so we'll take time out here. That friend of the people and man of the world. Frank Kaiser, Invites you to come to Chats-worth. III., where he runs the town theater and pub. There's a free drink and a movie for any '43er who shows up. 
That finishes off Friday night and the rally. No casualties except my writer's cramp. 
Saturday was a perfect day for football and we all saw a near-perfect game. That night Bill OTonnell and I went out. At the Penn­sylvania Bar we saw Ed Neagle and his sister Grace. We'd somehow missed them at the Rally. Ed's now at Rutgers Law. He claimed my old roommate. Frank Kinff, was there but I never ran Into him. 
Drs. Balph Carabasi and Georce Cari[»erry were next to be quizzed. "Count" Carabasi Is at Fitzgerald Mercy Hospital in Philly and George is chief resident in OB at Nazareth hospital in the same town. 
Jack Unneffan from N.D. law showed up, as did Tom Cotmey, who Is now with the State Department in Washington. Tom 31iller and Ada were there, fugitives from Penn Law scltoo). Tliey said Jim Clark from Cincy is in 
- Law School In that city. 
Sig Joe Keenan dropped do^vn from Electri­cal Eng. at Wisconsin where he's assistant * coach of the "B" team. Joe sees Hans Hellaiid often at Wisconsin Law school. 
Just outside the Bar Bob 'Kmmerman and his wife told me that he's another Haskins & Sells man In N. T. 
Some very nice people, the senior O'Con­nells, Carberrys and O'Briens invited us into the cocktail lounge for a drink and there was old lice Kaj-nuHkd. Lee's working for David A. Noyes. an investment firm In Chi. and he saw Hank Kane at the game. Hank's now with an advertising firm in N. Y. 
So much for the Notre Dame part of a ter­rific week-end. Hope we see even more of you there next year. 
The second letter for this edition comes from Bob Morrill, now of Plainsville. Conn. Bob writes: "While reading over my October copy of the 'Alumnus.' I realized I had yet to congratulate you on the 'bang-up' job you are doing without class news. Please accept the said belated congratulations and more power to you. 
"Since returning to civilian life I have been training with an appliance manufacturer In New Britain, Conn. This training Is aimed at making me field representative. The firm, by the way, is Landers, Frarj* and Clark, and our trade name is Universal. Just the other day. in reading some correspondence, I noted that we sell to a Knrtz Hard^vare of Dcs Moines. Could this be ol' *anti-smut' Kurtz? 
"Had a letter from Blair McGowan, who is now with Outdoor Advertising Association of Chicago. I understand that he, too. Is learning the ropes of sales. He mentioned that he and Jeannic had spent a football week-end In South Bend recently and it sounded like old home week." 
That's all for this edition. And at the pres­ent rate letters are coming In there won't be anything to print after football trips are over. How about dropping the column a line? 
m 0AA ^OUS A. LYNCH, 15724 Grandvllle 171 4 Rd., Detroit 23, BUch. 
SERVICE DEAB, WORLD WAR II 
Walter H. Barton, Cicero, III.; John T. Bat­taile, Memphis, Tenn.; Jame« P. Birder, South Bend, Ind.; John J. Bishop, West Brighton. 
X. Y.; Thomas E. Creei-y, Chicago, III.; Lonis 
F. Chirran, Jr., Dorchester, Mass.; Mark E. De Mfvts, Minot, N. D.; Edn-ard J. Dunham. Bn>(4dyn, N. ¥. ; Robert L. Dunn, Niles, Mich.; Norbert J. EUrott. Albany, N. Y.; Allen H. Elward, Jr., West Lafayette, Ind. 
Galand V. Fonk, Mnncje, Ind.; Matthew R. Gimnt, Frecport, III.; Roy J. Grumbine, Cindn­mUi, Ohki; George S. Hamilton, Eljdn, Dl.; Rocer H. Hnuy, Valparaiso, Ind.; Louis L. Kmc«, Maywood, lU.; Patrick R. Maschke. Tyrone, Fa.; John J. May, Biarion, Ind.; Wil­liam B. McDonald, Jr., San Mateo, Calif.; John 
J. McGinnIs, Jr., Chicago, 111.; Hngh F. Mc-Horh, New York, >'. Y.; Francis H. Mnrphy, Los AoKcies, Calif.; Diser J. O'Connor, De Kalb, ni.; Stephen F. O'Boarke, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Mtnrcaa J. Quinn, Washinctcm, D. C ; William 
C. SpariES, Alton, Ul.; George M. Wolfe, St. Albans, N. Y.; John K. Wolff, Baleish, N. C ; Eocene M. Zapko, Perth Ambay, 7f. J. 
Bill Snyder is chief metallurgist of Ever-sharp. Inc., Long Island, New Tork. He is to be married to Ruth Schaefer in Chicago on Jan. 25. 
From John Lsmch: 
The latest report of the Fourth Annual Alumni Fund places our class on top In per cent of contributors, and well up there with the leaders financially. At the three-quarter mark in the Fund drive, 305 members of the class had contributed $2,877.50. Out of a class of 503, 
60.6 per cent have responded. We hope the rest of you will check In before too long. 
Also It Is worth noting this month that con­tributions to the class column, here presented, will be doubly welcome in the future. Our av­erage here is as low as It ever will be. As you will see presently, exactly 500 men did not let ns hear from * them during the last 60 days. You are the only ones who can do anything about it. 
Back In September Bob Aburtina wrote from Patuxent Ri\'er, Md., where he has been enjoy­ing life with the peace-time Navy. Here's what he said: 
"About a week ago I applied for USN, and last Friday Z went to Washington for my inter­view. All the boys could ask questions about was GCA, and I supplied them with plenty of answers. Now I must wait about a month for the final decision. If It comes, I'll be land based, no sea duty, in BDO, Aviation Electron­ics, with a permanent rank of JG. 

"Our business here is IncreasIUE^ with the bad weather, also training* more pilots, so we should be all set for the winter. But for two months I'll be down in Florida, pending the final de­cision, checking out some of the GCA gear at Banana Klver. 
"The next time you drop John Cowley a let­

ted, send my best." 
On Oct. 12 we had a short letter from Herb Clark, who w^as still reminiscing about the Sat­urday night In the Hoffmann during the re­union week-end. Bill Snyder, he said, had moved to Long Island, but was returning to Chicago ia January to take a wife. 
Herb has been following the football team through its local triumphs at Champaign and South Bend. And he'll be around for the South­ern Cal week-end, which is about 10 days off as I write this. In the spring Herb, his wife and their third member wlil be moving to Wis­consin. 
Our last correspondent Is an old stand-by. Bill Scheacb, whose present address is 1729 W. 82nd St., Los Angeles 44. As of Nov. 7: 
"Back in civilian life now for a couple of months, and back at my old Job at North American. Stayed in New York about three weeks after my discharge; was out witli Red Barke once and also ran into Jerrj- O'Reilly, On my way west via United Air Lines, I stopped at N.D., but was there just before the semes­ter began and things were rather quiet. 
"Just received my last 'Alumnus,* and en-Joyed it as usual. Glad to see the men of '44 doing so well. And since I'm. in I*.A. I would like to contact the Southern California alumni club, or L.A Club, whichever they call It. . . . And I'd like also to get in touch with Mike Kiely and Ken Brown. Is anybody in the know?" 
If Mike and Ken have read this far, tiioy'll be expected to take care of the matter. Ad­dress above. Bill has already been sent the address to contact for the L.A. Club. 
That brings us to your secretary's contribu­tion, men in and about New York City for the past couple of months. At Columbia University, in the Law School, are Harry l«very, Joe l^:acy« *43, Bemie Carlson, *45, Bill Carey, *4G, and Joe Fatmcco. At Teachers' College is f^onk Kunkel, '43. The School of Journalism lias John Hunt, '43. and Bake I^eary. Studying in Dra­matic Art Is Bill Talbot, living In White Plains. N, Y., now. 
The Army-Notre Dame week-end brought the class around as nothing has before. Seen at the Waldorf rally Friday night: Jim Burke hunting for Dave Cortin, whom lie never did see. [Ed. Note: lie was there.] Jim Crouiey far away from his South Carolina and working in Rhode Island presently, Joe Gall looking for another lost friend In the lobby, Dan Stevens and his wife, and Lttrry Schatzlein enjoying a corner table. Bill Rogers and Jack Sullivan, a couple of natives, enjoying the sliow, Harrj' "Red" SnlliTan, Jerry Brown, Ted Smith. "Black" 1^1 O'Connor and Vlnce Duncan stand­ing by. 
Bill White of Somerville, Mass.. was helping Bemie Bowline of Kentucky distribute some of that state's more pleasant moments. Bill was still in uniform. J.G., but will be out soon. He has been attending Boston College Law School while waiting. 
Jim Hogan stopped long enough to tell us that Bob Beck is studying drama at Yale. An­other Yaleman Is Brock Lsrnch, '45, with one ' year to go In Med School. He was taking a breather at the rally. 
Bx-manager BUI Krily was around, taking a breather himself from Boston University Law School. Didc Ahem was up from Cincinnati; Fkank EnKUsh in from New Hochelle; Jim Gib­bcHB from Schenectady where he Is now living. 
Among the others: Frank Carrcr, Joe DUIMI» Bob MacDonnell, Bill Lawless^ Jack KHIy» John Kcomey, ^ I McNiinuum Ed Dowllnir* Joe Pons, Frank £ck, '45, Jack Terry, '45. BUI Snyder, Jim Cooney, '43, Kll Herxop, *43, and most of the Columbia students mentioned above. 
After the game we stopped for a minute at Ted Toole's apartment In the Barclay, where Jttbn (VHara and Tom O'Reilly were among the many lielping Ted with the refreshments. 
Over at the Commodore Bill B:iss, retiring football manager, was winding up a very busy day. Bob Reilly showed In. time to help him along. Also seen: Larry Goebeler, Earl Endcrt, Mike Kiely, Jack Hnpf, who was earlier seen on the sidelines huddled in a sweatshirt, just as if he belonged, Mox R<«ers and Frank Smith. 
If we've missed anyone, sorry. 
Jack Woelfle married Muriel van Pelt at Lynbrook, N. Y., on Nov. 23. Al Zoilo was the best man. Johnny Boj'le, *43. served as an usher. 
It's up to you from here on. How about a letter for the gang? 
John Cowley is still in Ft. George Wright Hospital recovering from severe injuries which he sustained when he fell out of his burning Mustang plane over Belgium during the war. John expects to be released from the hospital before the first of the year, and to return to Notre Dame in time for the January semester. 
1945 and later 
SERVICE DEAD, WORLD WAR II 

Robert L. ^\imone, Lconia, N. J.; James R. Ankenbruck, Fort Wuyne, Ind.; Edward V. Ankli, Benton Harbor, Hich.; George G> Bir­mingham, Sioux City, la.; 3Ilchnel II. Brady, Payne, Ohio; W^UIiam A. Brezenski, Jr., De­troit, Mich.; Edward J. Brockman, Glencoe, 111.; James D. Brogger, Grand Rapids, Sllcn.; Joseph P. Cngney, Oak Park. HI.; Robert W. Caley, Chicago, III.; Martin T. CalloKhan, Chi­cago, HI.; Robert J. Callahan, River Forest, HI.; Edward F. Casey, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Ambrose B. Clancy, Brooklyn, X. Y.; Robert L^ Coruni, lndiuiui|M>lIs, Ind.; Raymond E. Cronin, Brighton, Mass.; Donald S. Carrie, Stupleton, L.I., N. ¥. ; Ftoncis M. Cusick, Prov­idence, R. I.; Edward K. Delana, Jr., Chicago* III.; William F. Dold, Glen Ridge, N. J.; Theo­dore J. Dorosli, Clifton Heights, Pa.; Thomas 
V. Dougherty, Hazleton, Pa.; Thomas J. Dra­per, Los Angeles, Calif.; George F. Eberluut, m , Mishawaka, Ind.; Richard P. F^roehlke, Waaconda, III.; Tliomas F. Galvin, I>awrence, ^lafis.; Joseph T. Gibson, Holyoke, .Mass., James H. Glllis, Kane, Pa.; Daniel Ginsbnrg, Detroit, Mich.; James P. Grant, St. Pan!, Minn.; David B. Hl^ns , Utica, N. Y.; William 
F. Higgins, Y'oungstown, Ohio; John H. Hogan, Fort Wayne, Ind.; AVilliam Katz, Teaneck, 
N. J.; John R. Keane, Watertown, 3EasK., Robert A. Kennedy, Anoka, Minn.; Eugene R. Killoren, Appleton, Wis.; Edward L. Kinn, Fostoria, Ohio; John F. Kinsman, Eaa Claire,­Wis.; Robert W. Kneeland, Postville, la. 
John La Grou, Detroit, SCch.; Patrick J. Lambert, Argo, III.; Edmnnil L. Leach. Golf. HI.; Joseph P. Lemieux, Millinccket, Me.; IAW­rence P. Leonard, Jr., Toronto, Canada; Francis 
31. Maloney, Louisville, K^'.; Dewey C. Mann, South Bend. Ind.; Qninton 3Ias<Mi, St. Paul, Minn.; Edwin R. •Matthews. Sooth Orange,' 
N. J.; Thomas J. McQoaid, Rochester, N. Y.; Alexander J. Milone, Brooklyn, N. ¥.; Focnu. 
E. Morphy, St. Clond, 3Iinn.; Hany J. Os­borne, Jr., Elgin, III.; Robert G. Perry, Hanis­borg. III.; Joftieph J. Petillo, Asbary Park, X. J. 
John J. Poppen, Jr., Otsego, Mich.; John !•. Plrobst, Sheldon, la.; Edward A. Rowan, St. Louis, Mo.; John L. Ryder, Hudson FBII% 
N. T.; James E. Sheets, Ashland. Ohio; Wil-Vaun J. Spcteso; CUeac*, HL; Axtkor F. SteB­caU, Bed BaidK, N. J.; UiitlM B. WalkOTv WiBdwstcr, Hi.: Thoona #. Walili, New Toric, 
N. T.; GcffBid T. War«» Feori*. HL; Tuf L T. WttsMW, St. Benwd, Ohio; DmvU O. WM<I. North FrnakUB, Conu; George H. Teacer, Jr., 
vVa. 

John Hantzickrr is serving as an aerodynam­iciat with the engineering division of the Doug­las Aircraft Co., in Santa Monica. Calif. 
Bill Clemency, of Brooklyn, is teaching in Harlem and doing graduate work at Colum­bia university; 
From Joe Nesfeld: **You. might be surprised to hear tHat I am working in Chicago for an accounting firm. Haskins and Sells, which Is well represented by Notre Dame men. Here in the office with me are Dick Borgess^ '44. John Mnrraj, '44. Jim Madigaa, '43, Vmt O'Brien, '44, George Haley, M5, and Ed Haller, *46." 
Albert CiiwiskaB^ M.A. '45, is the American Vice Consul in Batavia, Java. 
Art Nissen is taking part in an intensive training program offered by the International Telephone and Telegraph Corp.. In N.Y.C. He was one of IS chosen from 400 college gradn­atesr-a decided tribi^e to him and to Notre Dame. 
Norman Joehlln is with the Federal Tele­phone and Radio Corp., in Clifton. N. J.. serving as a telephone engineer. 
Fernando Gazda is a business executive In Caguas. Porto Rico. 
Robert E. O^OaUaghaii, a patient at Vaughan General Hospital, Hines, 111., and his father, Bobevt J.» 'IS. visited the campus for the Northwestem-Notre Dame game. 
Serin Rohan currently Is attending Mohawk College in upper New Tork State. Kevin, oat of the Army since last April, has recovered completely from wounds snCFered during the war. He came down to New York City for the Notre Dame-Army game. 
ClilFcHpd MiaAs is out of service and married. His address Is 1845 N. Hillside Ave., Wichita. Kans. 
Jolinny Tonakor, an all-American wingman for Notre Dame back In 1943. is starring for the Cleveland Browns in the new All-America conference. 
V-12 
SERVICE DEU>, WORUI WAR II Darjl G. Hnish, Bcdiands. Calif.; Wajne H. JotustoD, Dallas, Tex. Ijto T. Idds, St. PanI, 
JOB FORUM IN CHICAGO 

De PanI University, 64 E. Lake St, Chicago, is offering a free Job Finding Forum for college graduates in the Chi­cago area. The Forum, -which meets on the second and fourth Wednesdays of each month, is composed of a group of men and women who gather to discuss ways and means of applying merchan­dising principles to the marketing of their own services. Alumni of all uni­versities are welcome. 
The Forum's purpose is to help par­ticipants sum np their ability, exper­ience, and interests so that they can se­cure the best available jobs suited to their talents. Former students of over a hundred different colleges are cur­rently taking advantage of the Forum. 
A NOTRE DAME CONTRIBUTION TO AMERICAN CULTURE 
Comments on recent issues: 
"I would like very par­ticularly to congratulate you on the publication of Clara Menck's 'Germany Today!' It seems to me by all odds the most penetrating anal­ysis yet made." 
—Walter Lippman, noted journalist and author. 
"I shall be very glad to draw attention to the Re­view. It is in my opinion the best of our political science periodicals." 
—Hans Kohn, of Smith College, noted author and observer. 
"This time it was the ar­ticle by H. C. E. ZachariaSj 'The Road to Indian Au­tonomy/ that I found most enlightening." 
—Professor Albert Guer­ard, of Stanford University. 
The Review of Politics is a fine gift for a friend of Notre Dame. 
FOR ONE YEAR §3.00 ONE ISSUE $1.00 
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTION • $3.40 

THE 
REVIEW OF POLITICS 
Vol. 9 JANUARY, 1947 No. I 
Luigi Sturzo: The Philosophic Background of Christian Democracy 
Mario Eineudi: Christian Democracy in Italy 
Eugen Kogon: Hitler's Concentration Camps — An Examination of Conscience 
George Vernodsky: Reforms Under Czar Alexander I: French and American influences Barrington Moore, Jr.: The Present Purge in the USSR Werner Levi: The British Dominions and Regionalism 
Rachel BespalofF The Humanism of Peguy 
SUBSCRIPTION BLANK 
The Editors of the Review of Politics Notre Dame, Indiana Please enter my subscription to the Review of Politics for. .year(s)j at $3.00 per year. 
Nzime .. 
• Street 

•
 Check enclosed City. 

•
 Please send bill State. 







