The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Ill II II III III lllllll I l" 
ir 


Notre Dame 
.^

ALUMNUS :5^^ Y : 
SMB boolt is not to ^* 
>  
CO  
LU  
>  
HON. WARREN A. O^TIER, B.S., in CE., 1887,"Fifty Years A Notre Dame Man" Bom January 12, 1866 ­•• Died November 7, 1934 May He Rest In Peace!  K.S.G.  
LU  


December, 1934 
W
E'VE always striven to make everyone feel genuinely "at home" in Hotel McAlpin . . . and we have been gratified by our success. So many happy, satisfied guests have expressed their appre­ciation that we feel liberally rewarded for our efforts. 
When you arrive in New York, please take it for granted that you are expected at the McAlpin . . . and that a hearty welcome awaits you. We'll guarantee to you 100% satisfaction in every detail . . . large, luxurious rooms, the usual unusual convenience, courteous, friendly service and a genuine interest in your welfare. 
Please don't forget that the economy of the McAlpin matches its facilities in its appeal to your purse as well as your pleasure. 
Wire, write or phone your reservation .. . to me per­sonally if you prefer. JOHN J. WOELFLE, 
Manager 

ROOMS with BATH at 
$2.50 ler day, single H.OO double H.50 twin-bedded 
HOTEL He ALDIN 
"The C e nt r e of Co n V e ni e n c e '' 
BROADWAY AT THIRTY-FOURTH STREET 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, *25. The mafni:unc is published monthly durinsr the scholastic year by the Alumni Association Member of the American Editor Atomni Council. 
of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana, ^ e subscription price Is S2.00 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include 
a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 
WlLLLUr R. DOOLEY, '26. Member of Nat'I. Catholic 
1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. AH Assocvite Editor correspondence should be addressed to Tbe Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame. Ind. Alomnt Federation 
DECEMBER, 1934 No. 3
VOL. Xin 
BOARD EVOLVES BIG ASSOCIATION PROGRAM 
Meeting in Chicago, Nov. 17, Brings Action on Physical and Intellectual Phases; Governors, Clubs and Individual Members to be Enlisted. 
Action, with or without prosperity, has been decided upon as the 1934-5 program of the Alumni Association. 
The decision came at a fine meet­ing of the Board, held in Chicago on the morning of the Northwestern game, Nov. 17. Present were Honor­ary President Frank C. Walker, Pres­ident Timothy P. Galvin, Vice-Presi­dent Bernard J. VoU, Past President 
M. Harry Miller, Directors, Fred Steers and Robert Lynch, and James 
E. Armstrong and William R. Dooley from the Alumni Office. Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice-presi­dent of the University, represented the administration at a part of the session. 
Following, in brief, and more or less self-explanatory, are the ten major points agreed upon for the year's efforts: 
1.
 Continue the program of student contacts in conjunction with the Uni­versity. 

2.
 Continue the ALUMNUS. 


3.
 Consider for membership the names of those non-graduates who are active, particularly In Club or contact work, and which are sub­mitted by the clubs or the Alumni of­fice for election, so that the Associa­tion may be strengthened by the active participation of these loyal and active Notre Dame men. 

4.
 Plan a big Universal Notre Dame Night. Try to arrange a na­tional radio hook-up, especially in view of the studio on the campus which permits direct broadcasting through the Columbia system. {A commercial sponsor to finance the broadcast was suggested in view of the heavy cost of such a hook-up.) The date for the Night was agreed upon as approximately the usual date late in April. The 22nd, considered, was found to be Easter Monday, and the Night will probably be postponed as a result until the 29th. 

5.
 Stimulate and aid the Club by visits from the members of the Board, by the District Governors, and by the Alumni Office personnel. 


6.
 Solicit the dues of the members, with regard for economic recovery now as well as recognition of the de­pression. (A heavy, though justifiable, deficit now exists, which the Univer­sity is carrying. It was discovered that if the dues-paying peak of 1929­30 is reached again—and with in­creased membership it should be sur­passed—this deficit could be rapidly eliminated. 

7.
 Enlist the intellectual facilities of Notre Dame, through the pages of ALUMNUS, through personal addresses to Clubs, or any other media, for the advancement of the members. 

8.
 Plan a big Commencement from the standpoint of the alumni part of the program, the Class Reunions, the Local Club Council and the Annual Banquet. 

9.
 Bring and induce as many Uni­versity contacts to the Clubs as pos­sible. 

10.
 Continue our constructive affili­ations with the American Alumni Council and the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 


Few of the above points need elab­oration. Th e program undertaken last year in conjunction with the Uni­versity was outstandingly successful from the standpoint of identifying the Local Alumni Clubs as natural and positive units of concrete value to Notre Dame, and of proving that the isolated alumnus, too, has a defi­nite and actual field for service to Notre Dame which will give him great satisfaction. Since contact vnth prospective students is more than just the emergency measure of an enrollment crisis, the Association feels that it is more than a gesture toward the University—it is a whole­some, unifying activity for the entire membership. 
The Board expressed the conviction that members would profit individu­ally and as agents from the mirror­ing in the ALUMNUS, through articles and reading lists, of the academic work of the various professors and departments, and urged the Alumni office to solicit the cooperation of the faculty in this service to alumni. 
Several suggestions for improving Notre Dame's contacts with students and the public, as aifecting the alum­ni, were discussed. 
The interesting and important pos­sibility of the.establishment of a fin­ancial arrangement whereby an alum­nus might contribute directly to a fund over a period of years to insure the education of his children, the fund to be administered by the University or the Lay Trustees, was raised and referred to President Galvin for fur­ther action. 
Father Hugh O'Donnell pointed out that the University was impressed with and grateful for the service ren­dered toward this year's enrollment by the Alimini Association's program of last Spring. He pointed to the possibilities of extending this activity this year, its attractiveness as a pro­gram which involves practically no cost to Club or individual. He echoed an earlier e.Kpression of the Board members, when he stated that the Clubs and the individual alumni ought to utilize more fully the poten­tially powerful set-up of the District Governors. 
Director Miller expressed the very practical idea that the serious and embarrassing situation of the budget might be greatly relieved if the sev­eral Clubs would appoint a person or persons who would undertake per­sonally to collect the alumni dues of members in the given Club area, the consensus of opinion being—as it has always been—that much of the delin­quency in payment is because of care­lessness rather than any other single factor. 
The meeting adjourned at 11:30 

a.m. . Aiimmi, and Alumni Clubs are urged to study the above program 
and not to wait for further reminder but to act on its points immediately. 
JAMES E . ARMSTEONG, 

Secretary of the Alumni Association. 
The l^otre 'Dame cAlumnus December, 1934 
CATHOLIC BOYS BRIGADE HONORS FR. O'HARA New Alumni Directory 
The star "Pro Juventute," awarded annually bj' the Catholic Boys Bri­gade of the United States, for dis­tinguished ser\-jce in the cause of youth, will be conferred this year on Bishop James H. Kyan, D.D., Bishop of Modra, and Rector of the Catho­lic University of Washington; Hon. Alfred E. Smith, former Governor of the State of New Yoi-k; Rev. John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, President of the Uni­versitj' of Notre Dame; Rev. Aloysius 
J. Hogan, S.J-, President of Fordham University, and Mrs. Ann E. F. Ryan, Founder of the Association for Cath­olic Action Among Boys, who will be the first woman so honored by this or­ganization. 
Announcement of the awards was made today by the"Rev. Kilian Henn­rich, O.M.Cap., President of the Bri­gade in New York Citj', and Chair­man of the Court of Honor selected from the directors of the organization to make the awards. The decorations will be conferred in person on the five recipients at a dinner to be held in the Hotel Biltraore on Tuesday night, December 4th. 
The Catholic Boys Brigade, with more than 6,000 members in New York City, is an organization founded in 1916, to do preventive social work among boys. It provides social, rec­reational, educational, and health and character building facilities for boys, without creed or color distinction. Its national membership in 26 states is more than 55,000. Cardinal Hayes is Honoraiy President of the New-York Brigade, and Honorai-y Chair­man of this year's dinner committee. In recent years the Star Pro Juven­tute has been awarded to Cardinal Hayes, Premier Mussolini, Monsignor Wolker of Gei-many, head of the Boys Movement there with 400,000 mem­
New Phoenix, Ariz., Club 
The Notre Dame Club of Phoenix was organized on Tuesday evening, November 13, at a meeting of Notre Dame men from Phoenix and vicinity in the Chamber of Commerce Build­ing, Phoenix, Arizona. 
John A. Hilkert, '23, was elected president of the new club; Thomas J. Malay, '26, vice-president; Julius J. Danch, '25, secretarj-; and Ed Meh­ren, '32, treasurer, Tom Malay was named publicity manager. 
The next meeting, a stag party, was to be held on the day of the Army game, November 24, at Ed Mehren's Rancho Santa Maria, and Ed was appointed a committee of one to make the necessary arrangements. 
The Alumni Association and the Alumni Office extend congratulations and best wishes to the new organiza­tion. The spirit and enthusiasm of its beginning indicate a happy and beneficial career. 
bers, Colonel Patrick Tierney of Dub­lin, President of Ireland's Catholic Boys Brigade, the Honorable Herbert Hoover, Honorable Franklin D. Roose­velt, Governor Lehman and others. 
The recognition and decoration at­tending presentation of the Star Pro Juventute, is one of the highest hon-ore confen-ed by any youth movement in the world and has the endorsement of Pope Pius the XI, and Cardinals, Archbishops and Bishops of the Cath­olic Church throughout the United States. It also has the endorsement of National organizations for better­ment of youth conditions throughout the country. 
"In conferring the awards this year upon those selected by the Court of Honor," Father Kilian said, "we rec­ognize as a veiy definite objective this year the necessity for calling at­tention to the preeminence of Chris­tian education and training over the atheistic and eugenic education and ti-aining rampant at present in insti­tutions of learning. In a recent dis­tribution of the Stars "Pro Juven­tute" the tostering ot international amity among youth as a solid basis for lasting peace was the objective. Another presentation emphasized the necessity for religious education as a bulwark against wa.^i-wardness and crime among youth. In choosing the heads of three outstanding institu­tions of learning in our country, a public citizen of the preeminent standing of former Governor Smith, and Mrs. Ryan whose self-sacrificing devotion to the cause of boys for many years merits recognition, we honor those who, ofiicially, as well as personally, held high record of achievement in Christian idealism and its practical application." 
Scrip Invites Alumni 
Editor G. Albert Lawton has an­nounced that prominent among many innovations in the policy of Scrip this year will be the ready acceptance of contributions from alumni. This is strictly in conformitj' with the Uni­versitj' policy of cooperation between students and alumni. Alumni contri­butions need not necessarily be of re­cent writing; rather, short stories, essays (on any subject %vhatsoever), poetiy, or criticism composed during student days, or after, will be con­sidered satisfactory material. 
The first issue for the present year appeared November 9. There are three subsequent issues, at intervals of ti%-o months. Because of the pe­culiar nature of the publication, con­tributtons must be in one week prior to publication date. Articles will be received at 125 Sorin Hall or at the Publications Oifice. 
Two factors dictated the form of the new Directorj', which is in reality only a duplicate of the present mail­ing list of the ALUMNUS, with the exception of the women graduates, who issued recently a separate Di­rectory. 
One was the lack of information. Many of the questionnaires sent out for this purpose were never returned —^too many. The cost of follow-ups is substantial. 
The other was the cost of a Direc­tory in the technical sense—classifica­tion by alphabet, by geography, by class and by profession. We have adopted the one form which was sim­plest and which seemed to be most in demand from alumni. 
The .supplement %vas intended to go out ^vith the November ALUMXUS Technicalities in postal regulations delayed it until the December num­ber. (The ALUMN-US, by the way, wishes to acknowledge the courtesy of Third Assistant Postmaster Gen­eral C, B. Eilenberger in this matter.) The delay has, of course, as does every month, brought further changes of address. Those whose names or addresses are incorrect are urged to write us the corrections as soon as possible. 
As to cost—if those members who derive concrete benefit of a personal nature from the new Directory can and care to contribute a dollar to­ward the cost, it would be a means of substantiallv reducing the financial burden which must othenvise be added to an already existing deficit, but which was deemed almost man­datory in view of the t^velve years which have elapsed since the last Di­rectory and the present program which calls for so much travel and geographical contact. 
Maritain Gives Lecture 
Jacques Maritain, considered by many to be the most important thinker in Europe today, delivered on Oct. 28 one of the most significant lectures of the Notre Dame year. His subject was "The Historical Ideal of a New Christendom." 
Professor Maritain, of the Institut Catholiqne in Paris, is the motivating influence in a group of French phil­osophers who are giving Catholic though and culture new meaning in the life of Prance. He is the author of many books which have brought him international reno\vn. While in the United States Professor Maritain was to speak also at the University of Michigan and the University of Chi­cago. 
Final enrollment figures for this year show students from 47 states, two U. S. possessions and ten foreign countries. The total registration is 2,637. 

WARREN A. CARTIER, B.S. in C.E. '87, K.S.G., DIES 
Donor of Cartier Field, Former President and Treasurer of Alumni Association, Lay Trustee, Best Known Alumnus of Notre Dame Dies of Heart Attack in Chicago. 
Warren A. Cartier, through fifty years of service and distinction as student and alumnus of Notre Dame, has left at Notre Dame a tradition and a spirit that will survive as long as Notre Dame. As that warm friend, enthusiastic personalitj' so familiar to every generation of the Notre Dame alumni who survive him, he met death in Chicago on November 7, the result of a heart attack while he was in the hospital for observation with little warning of his serious con­dition. It is more than just consola­tion to his friends and to his Uni­versity, that Father John O'Hara, president of the University, visited with him the afternoon of hfs death. 
• The Religious Bulletin, which leaves so little for other obituaries, issued the November 8 edition under the caption "Fifty Years a Notre Dame Man," in which apeared these beau­tiful paragraphs: 
Warren A. Cartier, B.S. in C.E., 1887, died last night in Chicago. Mr, Cartier was a life member of the Board of Tmstees of the Universitj', he was once President and for many years Treasurer of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, he was active in every Notre Dame movement of the last fifty years, he was the donor of Cartier Field. For the fifty years since he entered Notre Dame as a Freshman, he was in close touch with the University, and whenever there was a function that called for the presence here of alumni, Warren Cartier could be counted on to make the 200-mile trip from Ludington, Michigan, no matter what inconveni­ence this cost. 
In his private life, Warren Cartier was an example of all that a Notre Dame man should be. He entered the political life of Ludington, his home town, soon after graduation, and he was Mayor of Ludington for eleven years. His business interests were co-extensive with the needs of Ludington and the surrounding coun­try. His zeal for religion attracted the attention of Bishop Kelley of Oklahoma when that prelate, then a parish priest in Michigan, was found­ing the Catholic Church Extension Society. One of the original associ­ates of Bishop Kelley in this magnifi­cent work, he was a life member of the Executive Committee and Board of Directors, and in this capacity he helped to establish and support par­ishes in remote comers all over the United States. In recognition of this work. Pope Pius XI conferred upon him the Knighthood of St. Gregory. 
To his bereaved wife, Mrs. Kate Dempsey Cartier. and to his three sons, Raymond, Morgan, and Vincent, all former students of the Univer­sity, we extend our deep sympathy. We express the sympathy of the alumni, as well as of the student body. Wai-ren Cartier loved Notre Dame almost as much as he loved his own mother, and Notre Dame loved Warren Cartier. May his soul rest in peace. 
The ALUMNUS wishes to add a bit of the interesting history con­nected with the world-famed Cartier Field; this data coming from a fea­ture story in the ALUMNUS, in the Stadium Edition of October, 1930, by William J. Magarrall, Jr.: 
".. . Various University repre­sentatives met in 1899 to discuss the growing need for a more suitable gridiron. During this council, an en­closed field was proposed which would necessitate paid admissions. One of the many from whom aid was solic­ited was Wai-ren A. Cartier. His lib­eral and encoui-aging response over­whelmed University officials. Mr. Cartier agrfed to buy the necessary lumber for the project, build the fence and, finest of all, to construct the gi-andstand on the ten-acre plot which was purchased east of Brownson campus. 
"The athletic department, after due consideration, decided to use a kite-shaped track in laying out the new-field. They planned a bicycle track, a popular sport of that time, a foot track to encircle the gridiron, and a baseball . diamond. The southeast side of the field was to be tenanted by a grandstand and clubhouse. Shortly after, however, it was real­ized that such plans %vould in time pi-ove inadequate to the demands of the athletic gi-oups. This necessi­tated a change in the original inten­tion and produced the following: 
"An enclosed field with entrances located at the north and south sides, and tvvo entrances on the west side of the field. Further specifications called for a 220-yard straightaway track, running almost diagonally across the field. One of the two pro­posed football fields was to be situ­ated north of this running track along with an adjoining grandstand. South of the mnway was to be a quarter mile track, banked at the turns so as to permit a 'dizzy pace' for the intrepid cyclists. In addition to these sports facilities, another football and baseball field was pro­vided. The grandstand was to seat 500 people. The field was named Cartier Field after the donor. 
"In apnreciation for the generosity of Mr. Cartier, the University sent him a beautifully mounted embossed testimonial. The etching was done in blue and gold on white parchment. Decorating and painting were done by the art department of St. Mary's Academy. The scroll embraced the emblems of nearly every field of sport in American colleges and uni­versities of that day. It read: 
" 'Grateful for the generosity which prompted you to bestow on your Alma Mater an enclosed field to be used in perpetuity for the ath­letic games and contests of the stu­dents, the University of Notre Dame offers you this assurance of thankful­ness. The gift will be forever known as the Cartier Athletic Field, and your name will be inscribed in the list of eminent benefactors of Notre Dame. By your generous gift you have earned the gratefulness of the University, and of the students, pres­ent and future, to whom you have set a wholesome and conspicuous exam­ple by your loyalty to your Alma Mater and your solicitude for her welfare." 
Few knew then, impressed as they were, the significance of this gift. For twenty-three years, 1905 to 1928, Notre Dame football teams were un­defeated on this field. It became the world's capital of wholesome manli­ness and sportsmanship. Its provision for gate receipts ushered in an era of financial returns that have played so healthy a part in the realization of the gi'eater Notre Dame. Of its in­fluence on the thousands of boys it has served, we know well. Warren Cartier was a benefactor indeed. 
From this early gesture of gener­osity, Warren Cartier naturally grew in alumni stature with the years. In 1908 he became Treasurer of the Alumni Association, holding that bur­densome and thankless job, with a cheerful efficiency that was largely responsible for the development of the Old Students Hall Fund, for eighteen years, with the exception of 1909-10, when he was president of the organization. 
Truly, as the Religious Bulletin states, he was for "Fifty Years a Notre Dame Man." Of the funeral in Ludington on Nov. 10, the Ludington News said: 
"St. Simon's church embraced the physical presence of Warren A. Car­tier for the last time when the fu­neral services were conducted for him today. 
"Carried by eight pallbearers, 
• friends and-business' associates of the deceased, a magnificent copper casket encasing his remains entered the church at 10 a. m., followed by the bereaved widow supported by two of 
(Continued on PaRe 61) 





CAMPUS ACTIVITIES 
By William H. Tourney, '35 

MAIL! The Federal government has finally taken recognition of the importance placed upon his mail by the Notre Dame student. For with the band playing, Father O'Hara dedicating, and celebrities quoting statistics, the new Gothic post office officially re­placed the familiar building at the south end of the quadrangle as the student's most popular point on the campus. The new building is situated im­mediately south of Walsh Hall and its Gothic design blends harmoniously with the other recently erected halls and school structures lining Dorr road. Frank Walker, '09, bought the first stamp and promptly pasted it on a letter sent by Father O'Hara to President Roosevelt in apprecia­tion of the government's contribution to the University. -Ambrose O'Connell, '07, and Prof. Pat Manion, '22, of the Law School vied for the oratorical honors of the day. 
The seniors became class conscious for the first time this year and an­nounced plans for a class smoker to be held shortly before the Christmas vacation. The purpose of this inform-ality-and that will be its motif-is to promote better fellowship among the members of the class and to permit the open discussion of senior policies for the remainder of the year. It ^vill be welcome innovation. 
Again the lay faculty came in for its share of recognition when a New York publishing firm sought permis­sion of Prof. Engels to reprint his sonnet, "Shakespeare-Cervantes," in its 1934 Anthology of Magazine Verse. 
CASUALTY! 
The Northwestern game progressed into the bitter and hard fought strug­gle that Northwestern games have a habit of doing. The first half ended, and "Srapiron" Young administered first aid to lacerated skin and bleed­ing noses. Hands were retaped and trick joints were strapped for another 30 minutes of give and take football. 
But when the team trotted out to begin the second half all were in the best of shape. Elmer sent 11 men, sound in limb out on the field to re­sume the battle.. "Scrapiron" took one last look up and down the bench to check on-any invalids he might have omitted. All were enjoying the best of health. He hunched forward on his chair and squinted a professional eye for any new injuries that should materialize. Tlien the whistle blew and the game was resumed. 
Behind him, the varsity cheerleader, 
Jerry Foley, called his assistants into 
a huddle and ordered a cheer for the 
men on the field. But this was to be 
no ordinary display of vocal powers. 
On the contrary, Jerry and his men 
were to do double flips. Nothing was 
too good for this cheer. 

They signaled for attention and the crowd responded to their actions with a low, deep-voiced, and rising moan. Then came the anti-climax of the yell. Jerry and his mates marked off a yard and came together for the double flip. They both ascended and the crowd roared approval. But then came the descent. The timing missed and Jerry's face stopped the fall of his assistant's 160 pounds. 
The next morning Jerry looked out 

upon the world past a greatly en­
larged and badly broken nose through 
two, deeply colored blue slits that had 
sparkled encouragement to many 
thousand fans only the afternoon be­
fore. 
He returned to the campus the 

greatest casualty of the game. But 
he %vas a hero. He had fallen in the 
line of duty. 
ROMANCE According to an unofficial estimate, approximately 375 sophomores, upper­classmen, and their guests danced to the Cotillion music of Mark Fisher in the rose-colored lighting effect of the Palais Royale on the night before the Wisconsin game. No less successful were the other week end features: the victory in the Stadium the ne-^t aft­ernoon, the Senior dance that night,' and what the Scholastic refers to as the 'informal parties in South Bend' —the backbone of all class dances. 
The sounding boards of old Wash­ington vriU- be shocked some time in the near future, when they prime themselves to echo "To be, or not to be," and, instead, have a deep "Sweet­ie Pie" come bouncing off their backs to land enthusiastically in the laps of a delighted audience who had a pre­monition of what was coming. 
For the University Theatre will present its first performance of the season, a musical review made up of vaudeville skits and song-and-dance numbers written and acted by the students, some time about the middle of December. 
Hamlet had his day, yes, but the show must go on! 
The campus is war-torn, at pres­ent, with trenches that zig-zag back and forth betiveen Badin and Walsh and then wind menacingly over to the Library to spurt suddenly beneath the trees to Corby. At night, red lanterns blink warnings as the student body crosses this battle field to the Dining hall. But there has been no R.O.T.C. established at Notre Dame. It is merely the work of Mr. Lloyd's peace time students completing the under­ground ^vire project and earning tui­tion money under the government's Federal Emergency Relief Adminis­tration. 
According to the comptroller, 260 students are thus helping to work their way through school and at the same time aid the campus landscap­ing project. Others are mounting in­sects and feeding mice for Father Wenninger in the Science building. Others still are rebinding books in the archives of the Library—all working for a better Notre Dame. 
RENAISSANCE 
For more than a few years back, Sorin has looked with disdain upon anything so undignified as a team in the Interhall football league. It was below a senior, they said, to put on dirty jersies and cumbersome pants to cavort around with some sopho­mores or freshman of a Sunday aft­ernoon. 
But this year Sorin said nothing. On the day of the first game they startled a junior team that had come out merely for practice, expecting to \vin on the usual Sorin forfeit, by not only appearing on the field, but ap­pearing ready for battle. Oflicials were summoned and the game began. The seniors scored in the first quar­ter and scored a few times again throughout the game. 
An upset, said the underclass cyn­ics, they'll rest on their laurels for the remainder of the year. But Sorin didn't rest. Instead they astounded the school and pleased their rector. Father Farley, to a point of ectasy by winning all the rest of their games. 
In the meantime, the other Sorin­ites decided this was an occasion for celebration. First they organized a cheering section that was as unique as the cheers they sang. The next game they recruited an accordian player from the Sub who led the root­ers in a crude S, spelled backwards, after a victorious second half had gained them a triumph over Corby. But that was not the end: On the occasion of the Alumni game they ap­peared with the editor of Scrip—a lit­erary quarterly, mind you—^to lead 
(Continued on Pase 61) 

December, 1934 The T^otre 'Dame c/4 lumnus 


// | PAT O'DEA" ISPAT O'DEA SAYS THE JUDGE 
Former Athlete Visits and Corresponds With National Mystery Man and Expresses Conviction of Identity. 
The Editor of the ALUMNUS talked with Judge John Eggeman in Chicago the night before the Northwestern game at a Chicago Club banquet. The preceding night the Judge had at­tended a dinner in honor of the ren­aissance of the man who claims to be the famous Pat O'Dea of Wisconsin football fame and former Notre Dame coach, 1900-02. 
Judge Eggeman had already had correspondence TOth the professed Pat, according to the very interesting story which appeared in the Fort Wayne Neics-Sentinel of Nov. 3: 

Despite doubts expressed by others, John W. Eggeman, former Circuit Court Judge, is certain that the great Pat O'Dea, famous Wisconsin football star, who was missing from 1903 un­til just a few months ago, is still alive and is the one who is now known as Charles J. Mitchell, California lum­ber man. O'Dea, known as the "Kan­garoo Kicker," whose gridiron ex­ploits have been as memorable in the traditions of football as were those of "Pop" Anson in baseball history, who mysteriously disappeared from South Bend, where he was engaged in law practice, about 1903. 
It was rumored that he was drowned when a ship was sunk dur­ing the war and also rumored that he had been scalded to death in Mis­souri. Several months ago, Charles J. Mitchell, of Westwood, Calif., de­clared, as many others before had declared, that he was O'Dea. A brother, Andrew, and Pat's wife ex­pressed doubts that Mitchell was the one he claimed to be. 
Judge Eggeman was a close friend of O'Dea when the latter was foot­ball coach at Notre Dame during the 1900-01 season, the season immedi­ately following O'Dea's graduation from Wisconsin. Knowing O'Dea so well and having been a participant with him in a campus stunt which remained a mystery at Notre Dame for many years. Judge Eggeman wrote to the man claiming to be O'Dea, and received a reply which leaves no doubt in the former judge's mind that Mitchell is O'Dea. 
Judge Eggeman, in his letter, asked Mitchell, or O'Dea, to tell him "the story of how four chaps carted in, during the wee hours of a day in the month of June, 1900, a huge tin ele­phant which was hung up on the Notre Dame flagpole at commence­ment time and the names of the stu­dents who aided and assisted in this nefarious prank." 
The following reply was received: 
"My dear John: "Do I remember you! How.could I ever forget those days in Sorin Hall with you, Corcoran and Fred Powers? Yes, John, it is I in the flesh all right. Yes, and I do remember Liv­ingston's elephant and 'Core,' Fred, you and I, even though it was a case of getting in the back window of Sorin Hall. Of course, Father Mor­rissey was president in my time. 
"I have gotten so many letters, John, and have been trjing to answer, them all, although I am somewhat be­hind in my task. I will be at Madi­son for the homecoming on Novem­ber 17 and I certainly hope to have the pleasure of a chat over old times with you. I was certainly tickled to hear from you, John, and with very best to you and yours, I am, 
"Sincerely your old friend, 
"PAT O'DEA." 

The signature is of such an odd nature, says Judge Eggeman, that he recalls it well as an authentic one. 
In the reply to Eggeman's letter, it is significant that additional details are given descriptive of the the cam­pus incident of raising the tin ele­phant on the campus flagpole. 
Judge Eggeman, during his student days, played center on the Notre Dame football teams and was also manager of athletics. It was he who went to Madison to hire O'Dea to coach football at Notre Dame for the very modest salary of $500 a year. 
Following his personal meeting, the Judge affirmed his conviction of O'Dea's truth and identity. 
The Judge adds a note apropos of the above story: 

In addition to the information con­tained in the article I might say that I was graduated in 1900 and about four years thereafter I was walking on the front porch of the Administra­tion Building with Father Morrissey when he said to me, "John, during your time you always knew what was going on at the University of Notre Dame. On the morning of your graduation day I came out on to this porch about 5:30 in the morning and saw hanging at the top of the flag­pole a large tin elephant and I have never been able to learn who the boys were that did this terrible thing, and if any of them connected with this incident graduated from the Univer­sity, even at this late date, I would revoke their diploma." I confessed that 1 was one of the guilty boys and instead of becoming angry he looked at me and started to laugh and all was forgiven for I still have my sheepskin hanging on the wall in my oflice. 
This action upon the part of Father Morrissey, however, was not unusual. All he ever asked for was the truth and when he received the truth he was always ready and willing to for­give. 
Very truly yours, 
J. W, EGGEMAN. 

The most popular building on the campus. In other words, the neip $3SjOOO Notre Dame_ post office, dedicated on Nov. 16 toil/i Ambrose O'Connell, '07, and Frank Walker, '09, officiating and Pal Manion, '22, delivering the oration. The Band played and classes roerc dismissed for an hour. 

TWO NEW MEMBERS ELEQED TO LAY BOARD 
Two nationally known figures in the worlds of finance and manufac­ture were elected to membership on the board of lay trustees of Notre Dame at the semi-annual meeting on November 16. 
They are William C. Potter, chair­man of the board of the Guarantj' Trust company of New York, and Peter C. Keilly, president of the Re-came president of the Guaranty Trust company in 1921. 
Mr. Reilly is active in both business and finance. He was a pioneer in the coal tar products field and now oper­ates fourteen plants throughout tRis country in addition to serving as a director of several banks and large corporations. 
He was bom in 1869 in Provi-

A meeting of the board of lap trustees of Notre Dame mas held at the Unhersltp Nov. 16 
Present were, left to right: First ron;—Miles W. O'B.-ien, secretary; Frank C^ Walker, '09; Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., '88, provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross; Byron V. Kanaley. '04. chairman; Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., '11, president of 
the University; C. Roy McCanna. Second Hering, "98; John F. Gushing, '06; Matthew university comptroller; Angus McDonald, '00, 
public Creosoting Company of In­dianapolis. The new members suc­ceed the late Edward N. Hurley of Chicago and the late Albert R. Ers­skine, former president of the Stude­baker corporation, both of whom have died during the past two years. 
The board of lay trustees is re­sponsible for the investment and ad­ministration of the endowment funds of the University. It is composed of alumni and non-alumni members with the president of the University, Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, and Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C, provincial of the Congi-egation of Holy Cross, act­ing as ex-officio members. 
Mr. Potter, who was elected to his present post with the Guaranty Trust company early this year, has had a long and interesting career as a min­ing engineer and banker. 
He was born in Chicago in 1874 and graduated from the Massachu­setts Institute of Technologj'. Later he became general manager of the Guggenheim Exploration companv and during the war he served as chief of the Equipment Division of the U. 
S. Army Signal Corns for which he was decorated by both the American and the Italian governments. He be­
 roli>—George M. Anson, '95; Frank E.  J, Carney; Fred J. Fisher; Frank Lloyd, 
dence, Rhode Island, and began busi­ness for himself in New York in 1900. He is president of the Reilly Research Laboratories of Indianapolis, Reilly Tar and Chemical corporation. Re­public Creosoting company, and the Char Products company. He is a di­rector of the Real Silk Hosiery Mills, Inc., the Indiana National Bank, and the Union Trust of Indianapolis. 
Mr. Reilly first attained national prominence by perfecting a coal tar still which made possible the complete 
•distillation of coal tar to a carbon residue. 
Two other vacancies on the board occasioned by the recent deaths of James J. Phelan, Boston banker, and Warren A. Cartier, of Ludington, Michigan, will not be filled until the May meeting of the board. 
Present at the meeting on Novem­ber 16, held in the library of the John 
F. Gushing Hall of Engineering, were Fred J. Fisher of Detroit; Miles W. O'Brien, South Bend; C. Roy Mc­Canna, Burlington, Wis.; Matthew J. Carney, New York; Frank E. Hering, South Bend, Ind.; John F. Gushing, Chicago; Frank C. Walker, New York; George M. Anson, Merrill, Wis.; Angus D. McDonald, San Fran­cisco; and Byron V. Kanaley, Chica­go, chairman. 

CCMAiENT 
A Merry Christmas! 
It sounds a bit premature, but the current ALUMNUS tears from the calendar the last sheet of another year. 
I always like to have the December issue become due. Usually, with the Thanksgiving turkey undig-ested, almost forget this "Merry Christmas" to the alumni, but when I think of it, it is such a real editorial pleasure that I'm glad I almost forgot it. 
"Merry Christmas" from Notre Dame brings with it such a wealth of connotation that it is like placing a beautiful volume in priceless bind­ing on the tree for each alumnus' Christmas morning. 
That matchless story, more than nineteen hundred years old, beginning \vith the Golden Star, winding its way through the dark of poverty and of persecution to the Light again; Mary, the Mother of God, moving from an humble manger to the heart of every Christian seems to have a special significance here where the great golden statue of this Mary serves as a world beacon for boys who would follow Christ. 
Small wonder that a "Merry Christmas" means so much, and seems such a precious thing to send, not from me, but from this human group here at the University whose common cause lifts the whole from anything personal and breathes into this sea­son's greeting what we like to believe is the real voice of Notre Dame. 
Since we won't see you until after 1935 has buried forever this year of 1934, we may just as well add a sincere "Happy New Year." 
That of course brings to mind the more prosaic and practical thoughts that come with the history of a year just gone and plans for one ahead— the financial deficit, the student con­tact program, the visits to the Clubs, the biggest-and-best Universal Notre Dame Night, the record-breaking Commencement and Reunion, and all those things that are good, but which annoy depressed alumni who, to a man (with the alleged exception of the office staff here at Notre Dame) are wondering how they'll ever pad themselves enough to pass as Santa Clans. 
But with all its dismal context, a "Happy New Year." 
Campus Activities 
(Continued from Pace 58) 
them in a snake dance that started from their porch and wound around the entire quadrangle. 
Then came the day they were to meet Carroll, winner in the other di­vision, for the championship playoff. But before that came a foothall week­end to Cleveland. It is a sad story from here on, though, for the seniors. Carroll saw Sorin score a touchdown in the first five minutes of play, and then they went to work. Youth_ told, in this case, and the final score is in­cidental. 
But Father Farley and his boys are walking the paths with heads lifted high these days. It's an upset," they say, "It happens to the best of teams." 
CLEAR ALL WIRES! For several weeks now, student musicians, singers, actors and comed­ians have been trekking over to the Engineering building to receive audi­tions as radio entertainers over the station WSBT has established on the campus. 
This is the first attempt to broad­cast directly from the campus, and while the station will carry a large share of the numerous educational lectures delivered by members of the faculty, it should prove advantageous for the many talented students who have proved their merits in recent campus entertainments. 
But, to date, not a stooge has been found. 
The more learned undergraduates around here were rather irked at the vast amount of publicity given to Bill Shakespeare — he of the backfield. Their Bill was suffering, and each Saturday he was suffering a little more intensely. 
As a result, down from their suc­cessful season at the late World's Fair came the Globe Theater Players last week, to entertain two successive­ly packed houses in Washington Hall w^ith a forty-iive minute stream-lined presentation of "As You Like It." The students liked it, the faculty liked it, and the football squad cheered an­other Bill Shakespeare who also had something on the ball. 
Both factions are pleased now, and the Bard of Avon is worshipped equally as high as the Bard of Staten Island. It is merely a question of taste in plays. 
What proved to be the most spir­ited pep meeting of the season was held the night before the team left for the Army game. Belittling the student body for lack of noise. Bob Proctor, '04, of Elkhart, called upon 
The 1^0 tre 'Dame cAlumntis 
in New York on the day of the game." 
He started something that lasted 12 minutes by actual count on a stu­dent manager's watch and transcend­ed a spirited march by Joe Casa­santa's bandsmen. It took Elmer Lay-den and two of his assistant coaches to stop that cheer. 
Notre Dame spirit lives on, mem­bers of the Alumni! 


WARREN A. CARTIER, '87, DIES 
(Continued from Page 57) 
her three sons. Members of his im­mediate family, present for the cere­mony, and relatives and friends paced behind the widow in solemn proces­sion. 
"Eev. Denis Behah, pastor, assisted by Revs. James Malone and John Mc­Neil, said solemn high mass. Also in the sanctuary were Rt. Rev. Msgr. 
D. E. Maione of Grand Rapids, Rev. Thomas -A.. Steiner, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, vice provincial of the Holy Cross order in the United States; Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice president of the University of Notre Dame, Mr. Cartier's alma mater; Rev. Joseph P. Burke, C.S.C, professor of religion at Noti-e Dame, and Rev. P. 
H. Griffin, vice president of the Cath­olic Church E.Ktension societ}-. Fol­lowing mans, Monsignor Malon e preached a touching sermon. 
" 'Man shall go into the house of etei-nity,' he began, quoting Ecclesi-­asticus 12:6, 7. 'Those words were spoken by Solomon,' he said, to help bring the minds of his people from earth to heaven. There are two worlds: one of the senses and another of the spirit. Our five senses prove the existence of the physical world and a sixth sense, faith, proves the existence of a world beyond. Here lies a man who has influenced throughout his whole life by the thought of that invisible kingdom. 
" 'Warren A. Cartier was strong in character, keen in mind, fearless in execution of what he thought was right, and his life was ever guided by the will of God.' 
" 'The press, local and state, has beautifully extolled his achievements so it is not necessary for me to dwell on them. We ask the almighty God to be merciful and good to his soul." 

' "Monsignor Malone then traced the services. Mr. Cartier has per­formed for the church and affiliated organizations. 
"Rev. Behan read a tribute to Mr. Cartier, written by Rev. John P. 0,'Hara, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame. Rev. O'Hara was in Lud­ington Friday to pay his last respects but was unable to remain for the sei-vices." 
The interment ceremony was read by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, and Byron V. Kanaley was one of the pall-bearers. 

Jacques Maritain, Toorld famous French philosopher, and Rev. Philip S, Moore, '24, 
them for "a cheer that will be heard at the University! on Oct. 28. 
head of the Institute of Medieval Studies at Noire Dame. Professor .Marilain spoke at 
BY DIREaOR OF JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, '32 ATHLETIC PUBLICITY 




ATHLETICS 
Last month's review took us through the first three games of the season and looked briefly at the prog­ress Elmer Layden has made along a number of lines since coming to Noti"e Dame as director of athletics and head football coach. 
There is little to add this month except a review of the games played 
ROCCO ScHIRALU 
Stopped an Armv. 

with Wisconsin, Pittsburgh, Navy, Northwestern, and Army. Victories in three of these games brought the record to date up to five rictories and three losses. Southern California, boasting three straight ^'icto^ies over Notre Dame, is the only remaining opponent on the schedule. Notre Dame will travel to Los Angeles to play the Trojans, Dec. 8, and they will meet a team which now ranks with the U. S. C. elevens of the past. In whipping Oregon, 33 to 0, the men of Howard Jones showed what they can do when they make up their minds. They piled up this score on a muddy field, soaked by one of those California rains which causes such consternation among the natives. 
While bemoaning the losses to Texas and Na^'y, and admitting that Pitt would have defeated Notre Dame even if the Irish had received the breaks, Notre Dame fans have over­looked one verj- satisfactory angle of the current football situation. 
We overlooked it, too, and no doubt Elmer Layden and his assist­ants overlooked it at the time. 
John P. Gallagher, Chicago corre­spondent for the Los Angeles Times, brought to our attention recently, however, that it is indeed fortunate that Notre Dame did not win from Texas, Pittsburgh, and Na^'y. He said it would be a good thing for 1935 GRID SCHEDULE 
Sept. 28 Kansas here Oct. 5 Cameeie at Pittsburgh Oct. 12 Wisconsin at Madison Oct 19 Pittsburgh here Oct. 26 Na\-y at Baltimore Nov. o Ohio State at Columbus Nov. 9 Northwestern here Nov. 16 Army at New York Nov. 23 Southern California here 
Notre Dame to lose one or hvo more games this year! 
Now don't get Mr. Gallagher wrong. He's all Irish and a yard wide. 

His succinct answer to our protests was this: "If Elmer had won seven out of nine, or eight out of nine, or nine out of nine, he would be in a highly embarrassing position next years. The fans would expect him to repeat that record or do better next year. As it is, those who know the situation realize that he had only average material, although lots of it, that he has gone to work on funda­mentals, and that he is building for the future. Real Notre Dame fans are well satisfied with his record to date. Thev w^ould like to see him improve a little next year, then a lit­tle more the next year, and some day come along with a national champion­ship or two." 
There's no disputing the sagacity of these words. 
Since losing to Texas, 7 to 6, and then defeating Purdue, 18 to 7, and Carnegie Tech, 13 to 0, Notre Dame has defeated Wisconsin, conquerors of niinois, 19 to 0; lost to Pitt, 19 to 0; lost to Navy, 10 to 6: defeated Northwestern, 20 to 7, and defeated Army, 12 to 6. 
Notre Dame, 19; Wisconsin, 0 

The last home stand of the season was made notable by Notre Dame's first 1934 goal-after-touchdown, the contribution of Quarterback Wally Fromhart. But it remained for George Melinkovich, the bucking, tearing cowboy to do most of the scoring. Mink made two touchdowns, the first on a 38-yard dash after Big Don Elser had done some heroic ball-carrying and the second on a jump of four yards around left end after WajTie Millner had recovered (on the 18-yard line) an attempted Wisconsin punt. 
Fred Carideo, playing at fullback, counted the other Notre Dame touch­down when he slipped inside left guard and eluded several tacklers, after a 27-yard pass from Pilney to Davis placed the ball on the Wiscon­sin 10-yard line. 
Wisconsin showed occasional flashes of brilliance on offense and a capable line from tackle to tackle on defense. Only frequent fumbles and penalties prevented at least one Badger score. Notre Dame, on the other hand, dis­played better fundamentals and a more consistent attack than at any time in the season to date. The first 
GEORGE MELINKOVICH 

The}f fear him, 

downs were 15 to 6 in Notre Dame's favor. 

Notre Dame, 0; Pittsburgh, 19 

The size of the score was the same as in the Wisconsin argument but in this marble game the 19 points went to the boys from the Cathedral of Learning. And it isn't being at all disloyal to our pals, the Fighting Irish, to say that the Pittsburgh lads deserved the victory. They proved by this and subsequent wins that, de­spite a defeat at the hands of the super Minnesota team, they can very justly be considered the best team in the East and one of the four best in the country. 
Notre Dame didn't have much luck in stopping the long touchdo^vn runs of Mike Nicksick and Leon Shedlosky, but it displayed a quality and quantity of fight that delighted the 64,000 patrons who crowded into the Pitt stadium. And Elmer is will­ing to confess now that he didn't have any too much hope of %vinning from Pitt anyway. 
Notre Dame, 6; Navy, ID 

First downs: Notre Dame, 14; Navy, 3. Total yards from scrim­mage, Notre Dame, 299; Navy, 118. 
And yet Notre Dame lost, 10 to 6. The reason, of course, is that the boys 
December, 1934 The IS^otre 'Dame cAlxtmnus & 
did nearly all their gaining bet\veen the 20 yard lines. The Sailors, on the other hand, had only two good scoring opportunities and cashed in on both of them. Slade Cutter, the vast Navy tackle who got in the Irish' hair all afternoon, provided three of the Academy points with a field goal early in the second quarter. Until the final minutes of the fourth quar­ter that looked like the margin of victory despite the obviously superior ground-gaining of the Irish. 
Then the fireworks began. Navy put over a touchdown on a pass from the able Buzz Borries to the also able Mr. Domin, an end, after Gob Clark had intercepted one of Andy Pilney's passes and returned to the N. D. seven-yard line. On the kickoff im­mediately thereafter the same Handy Andy returned 55 yards to Navy's 26-yard line. Came a five-yard pen­alty on Navy, then Mr. Pilney got up steam again, fired a pass to Basket-bailer Marty Peters who hauled it down on the three-yard line and dragged three sailoi-s over the line with him for a touchdown. The at­tempt for the extra point was missed. 
In a few seconds the game ended, and Clevelanders went to their heart specialists. 
Notre Dame, 20; Northwestern 7 The same old Irish-Wildcat battle, this one, and another exhibition of a courageous, exciting second half comeback on the part of Notre Dame. Northwestern deservedly led at the half, 7 to 0, as the result of a sus­tained march of 65 yards for a count­er and a goal afterwards. The Evan­ston lads had a clear superiority; the Irish boys hadn't shown to advantage. The memory of that 1925 come­back must have fired them between the halves. Anyway, they came back with a blocking vengeance that wasn't to be denied, and 'ere long, George Melinkovich had pushed over a touch­down from the one-yard line. The goal was missed, however, and the Wildcats still led, 7 to 6, at the begin­ning of the fourth quarter. The touchdown that took the game back to the Dome was the result of the time-woi-n "hocus-pocus" play,— or what is your name for it? Quar­terback Wally Fromhart had built up to it by "checking" plays on several plays immediately previous. He "checked" once more; the Northwest-em line relaxed. Suddenly, without a shift. Jack Robinson passed the ball back to Andy Pilney, and Andy shot away to a goal line, 14 yards away, b e fo r e the Northwestemers had caught the idea fully. This time Marty Peters converted. He also converted on the third touchdown which Bill Shakespeare carried over after a long march down the field against a fast-tiring Wildcat squad. 
Notre Dame, 12; Army, 6 The story of this game is too fresh in your mind to require anything 
still panting after that super excite­ment of the first quarter and your heart is still leaping here and there after the thrilling final minutes and the heroics of Dan Hanley. 
Dynamite Dan, the only man on the squad who played varsity football under Rockne (he was out of school in 1931 and 1932 after gaining prom­inence as a sophomore in 1930) was the man of the hour in New York and deservedly so. He "came through" magnificently when Melin­kovich was hurt and he scored the winning touchdown on a brilliant pass reception and run. 
But there must be bouquets, too, for the AU-American play of Jack Robinson and the unbeatable line play of Little Poison Schiralli, the midget guard. Everyone on the team, and in the line especially, played mag­nificently. It was the Army game all over again, tremendously hard but almost without penalties. .A. huge bundle of congratulations to the boys. 

Basket Season Opens 

The Irish basketeers, under the di­rection of Coach George Keogan and the leadership of Captain Johnny Jordan, will open the 1934-35 cam­paign on Dec. 7 with a game against Kalamazoo. Albion on Dec. 15 and Northwestern on Dec. 18 will follow. AH three games will be in the Notre Dame gym. 
Don Allen, who as a Sophomore guard saw much action last year, is lost to the squad for the coming cam­paign. A severe case of typhoid fev­er has temporarily left him greatly weakened in physical condition. To fill the gap Coach Keogan has moved Johnny Jordan back from forward. In addition, Marty Peters, Sophomore star of last year, will be lost to the team until after the Southern Cali­fornia game. His place at center is at present being filled by Bill O'Connor, a promising Sophomore. 
i\ 

 SOPHOMOCE IN l^3S.) ^ 
much in the way of recapitulation EXPE«iE:NCa> ME N here. Anyhow, you are probably 
• ALUMNI CLUBS • 
ARKANSAS 
FATHER GEORGE STRASSNER, in receipt of some advertising mate­rial from the Alumni Office regarding the WSM Notre Dame broadcast on Nov. 23, said that he would notify by postal card each member of his club. Lots of thanks. Father. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT 
The football team of the Christian Brothers Academy, Albany, New York, 1934 -ivinners of the Knute K. Rockne trophy presented annually by the Notre Dame Club of the Capital District, were to be honored at a din­ner on Monday evening, November 26. 
John P. (Chick) Meehan, Manhat­tan College coach, was to lie one of the speakers, and Mayor John Boyd Thatcher, of Albany, one of the guests. Congratulations were sent by ELMER LAYDEN. 
CHICAGO 
At a brilliant dinner in the Univer­sitj' Club on Friday e%-ening, Nov. 16, the Notre Dame Club of Chicago entertained the local and visiting celebrities connected with the North­western and Notre Dame football game the following afternoon. 
Honored guests and speakers were: Rt. Rev. Bernard J. Sheil, D.D.; Dr. Walter Dill Scott; REV. J. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C; ELMER F. LAYDEN; Kenneth L. (Tug) Wilson; HON. EDWARD J. KELLY; TIMO­THY P. G.^VIN; ARCH WARD; Edward J. Geiger, and Howard Mann. 
Probate JUDGE JOHN F. O'CON­NELL, '13, acted as gracious and able toastmaster for the occasion. Enter­tainment was furnished by Mj-ron Duncan of the Chicago Cvdc Opei-a and by the Old Heidelberg singers. 
The committee in charge was: GEORGE E. HARBERT, EDWARD 
W. GOULD, ROBERT IRJHGER, RICHARD L. PHELAN, W. IRVm CORCORAN, PAUL HOST and JOHN POYNTON. 
All of the speakers paid eloquent tribute to the splendid relations and the keen rivalrj' that have marked the long series of N.U.—^N.D. games. 
On December 13, at 7:30 P. M. in the University Club in Chicago, at the regular monthly forum of the Mid-West Region of the National Catholic Alumni Federation, the REV. WILL­IAM A. BOLGER, C.S.C, eminent economist and lecturer, will address Catholic college alumni of the Chi­cago area on "After All, What Is the Economic Order For?" All Notre Dame men and their Catholic college alumni friends are cordially invited. A buffet supper is sei-ved at the Club at 6:30 at $1.10 per plate. Reserva­tions for the supper should be made with A. J. Schweitzer, 134 S. LaSalle St., or with the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, which is actively interested in this progi-am under Notre Dame auspices. 
CINCINNATI 
An attractive mimeographed notice from the hand of Prez HOGAN MOE­RISSEY notified the Cincinnati Club of a regular meeting to be held at the Kemper Lane Hotel on November 
6. LEE DUBOIS was to be the chair­man of the evening. 
DETROIT 
I •nish to acknowledge your letter of Nov. 8 and poster announcing the Notre Dame broadcast. I have referred the matter to CHARLES 0. MOLZ, whose address is c-o Editorial Department, Detroit News,—as he is the President of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit. 
Apparently your office has not been notified of the election of new officers of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, so in harmony with the prevailing spirit of getting election results you will want to know that the annual meeting for election of officers was held October 22, 1934, and that the new officers in addition to Mr. Molz are: — Vice-President, WILLIA M CROTTY; Treasurer, WILLIAM H. McCULLOUGH, and Secretary, ROB­ERT BATY. Mr. Bat}''s address is 18074 Ohio Avenue, Detroit. 
You may also be interested in the progress of Notre Dame men in local politics, as evidenced by recent aj)­pointments and the last election. CLAYTON C. GOLDEN, of Monroe. Michigan, was appointed Circuit Judge for Monroe Countj', by Gov­ernor Comstock. Prior to the appoint­ment as judge, Mr. Golden had been prosecutor of Monroe County. 
Upon taking oSice, Judge Golden appointed to the office of prosecutor ad intenm JOSEPH A. NAVARRE, an A.B. graduate of Notre Dame and a law graduate of Michigan. FRAN­CIS READY, of Monroe, was elected prosecuting attorney for the term be­ginning January 1, 1935. 
The recent election results reveal JOHN STACK, JR., of Escanaba, as Auditor-General for the State of Michigan, and THOMAS C. JIUR­PHY as Probate Judge for Wayne Count}-. 
JOHN T. HIGGINS. 
CLEVELAND 

The week-end of the Navy game is over, but the memory lingers on. Every event on the program was an outstanding success. The smoker at the Cleveland Athletic Club the night before the game, attracted a good crowd, who applauded all the boxers and were highly critical of PAT CANNY'S performance as referee. The luncheon of the Ladies Reception Committee, an innovation this year, was well attended and highly compli­mented by the guests. The game it­self, for color and thrills, can be compared only to that famous North­western game on the campus in '25. The dinner after the game with CHUCK MOONEY as toastmaster, wns a pleasant prelude to the dance, at FRED JOYCE'S Lake Shore. 
The Club is indeed grateful to those whose efforts made the week-end such a succes s — particularly to BILL RYAN, President of the Club and general chairman of the week-end, MATT TRUDELLE, in charge of publicity, and GAY HAAS and BUD RADDATZ, who were in charge of the program. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHUCK KAISER are the parents of another son, who arrived Friday, November 16. Chuck has decided to make linemen of both youngsters, on the theory that a line­man has a better chance of being elected captain. 
GEORGE BELDING has recently been made assistant buyer in the fur department at Higbee Company. 
Chicago lost a great organizer when DICK WEPPNER returned to Cleveland. Besides taking a promi­nent part in Notre Dame Club activi­ties, Dick recently helped form an 
December, 1934 The l^otre 'Dame cAlumnus ei 
alumni association for his high school. 
JOE GAVIN'S Holy Name ffigh gridders put on a snappy demonstra­tion of the Notre Dame system, the Saturday after the Navy game, and walked off the field on the long end of a 6-0 score in their annual game with Cathedral Latin for the Catholic League Championship. 
TOM MURRAY, who missed by a narrow margin being elected County Prosecutor of Erie County, was one of those who came up from Sandusky for the Navy game. 
ED HOGAN has deserted the in­surance field, and is now with the Central United Bank here. CY MAT­THEWS is helping prevent industrial accidents on the safety council at National Malleable Co. 
PAT CANNY, on a recent trip to Pittsburgh, wearing his derby as only Pat can, was respectfully addressed as "Detective" by one of Pittsburgh's Public Enemies, who assured Pat that he was definitely on the straight and narrow. Pat dished out a lot of phony advice, and they parted with expressions of mutual regard. 
CLEVE C.A.REY, in the advertising department at B. R. Baker Co., is persuading the well - dressed young man to wear what he should. 
BILL VANROOY has convinced some of CHUCK ROHR'S customers that several brands of beer may be drawn from the same tap. Just an­other of those cases where the cus­tomer is always right. 
Plans for the Christmas formal to be held by the alumni are under way, though the date and place are as yet indefinite. CLAYTON LEROUX has been appointed general chairman, and will be assisted by the following com­mittee: Chairman: Entei-tainment, CHET BRUMLEVE; Reception, GEORGE BELDING and JAC K DUFPY"; Program and Decorations, .A.RT BECVAR and DICK PREZE­BEL; Publicity, MATT TRUDELLE and JIM BOURKE. 
PIERCE O'CONNOR 

NEW YORK 
All attendance records for meet­ings were broken on Friday night, November 2 at the Centre Club. A late notice sent out to the members telling them that FATHER O'HARA and DEAN JAMES E. McCARTHY would be our guests that night brought out the alumni from all over this area. 
Father O'Hara was not able to spend much time with us as he had to catch a train for Pittsburgh to be on time for the game the following day. 
Dean McCarthy told us of the won­derful work that is being done at Notre Dame under Father O'Hara. 

Tom Meany of the World-Telegram was to be with us, but being unable to attend he had H-AJIRY SYLVES­TER pinch hit for him. 
DOC GELSON 

PHILADELPHIA 
Getting the fire off my chest first, as promised last month: The turnout for the Mass for Deceased Notre Dame Men was so terrible we might well "skip it," but we hope that this public admission of the Club's short­comings will serve to rouse the boys to do better next time. Now, with the blood out, let's turn to the thun­dei\ 
That confidence is based on the at­tendance at last night's meeting—al­most two score and ten. That's the high-water mark in our history, but, as you knon-, this gang has just start­ed to make records. We welcome Doctor SIMEON MULLEN, off in­terning for a few hours to greet us; BILL C. DAVIS, '27, just in town, and with the Janette Mfg. Co. as Dis­trict Representative; BILL BODO, '33, back after an extended absence; TOM BYRNE, '34, joining us for the first time; JOE LAUGHLIN, '34, transferring his activities from the South Bend branch of the Travellers' Insurance, but not his interest from the U. N. D. Library, and getting ready for his Bars in January; JOE MAXWELL, joining MARTY BRILL in letting us in on the "pro" game as contrasted w^ith the "rah-rah" game (and here's looking for a comp from Marty for this; he's the most surprising coach of the local season) ; BRYAN HAYES, honorary member, but no more loyal N. D. fan in the city. To the old-timers and regulars we say, "Lead on, boys, your efforts are beginning to show!" 
BILL COONEY, '31, took over the Secretary's toga, amid a round of appl(e)(s)ause for the retiring in­cumbent. Here's many pages of min­utes to him, to record what this crowd is doing and heading for. 
-\mong which ought to be (we'll add it now so somebody will think of it next meeting) participation in the city-wide Adoration that has been es­tablished at a local school. City-wide in the sense that all are invited to attend. Groups can obtain specific hours. May we say nothing would be more truly Notre Dame? 
Long before the night was over (and the recorder had to leave, there­by missing the tall tales that mark the later hours), came the prize of the day: the drawing of the winner of the two tickets and railroad accom­modations to THE GAME. Happy am I to report that H(orse) P(ower) Degen, a Sorin in local spirit, was the smiling one, after beating some six­teen hundred competitors. The en­hancement of the local Treasury makes us glow with that feeling that a job well done can give. 
Last but not least, here's that data on our Christmas Formal: WEDNES­DAY, DECEMBER 26, at the HOTEL PENNSYLVANIA, with DEL REGIS and his Orchestra, and hoping yon join us. When it's over, the "pot," that started out a year ago, with some sixty cents, will have grown to some three hundred dollars, we're confi­dent, and someday soon a son of Penn will come to Mary's Mansion, sent by the Club, who could not other­wise have come. Wish us luck. 
H. CLAY JOHNSON, '34, hit town long enough to be seen,.but ma honey from somewhere out in the West didn't give us much chance. JACK MARONEY, having at last attained the Benedict's bliss, joins an ever­growing group. Ask him which is the best beer in town, Jim. 
See you Saturday? Here's hoping. TOM JLVGEE. 

RHODE ISLAND 
.^t a recent meeting in the Narra­gansett Hotel, Providence, LEO K. Mc-ALOON was elected President of the R. I. Alumni Club of Notre Dame. His predecessor, CHARLES A. GRIJIES, well known in these parts for his brilliant leadership as a true Crusader of the Gold and Blue, meri­toriously has been appointed Govern­or of the Notre Dame Alumni Clubs of New England. 
Other ofBcers elected were ROB­ERT W. POWERS, JR. of Provi­dence, vice-president; JOHN S. P. McKIERNAN, of Providence, secre­tary, and THOMAS S. COLLINS, of Fall River, treasurer. Elected to the activities committee were JOHN J. BRADY, JOHN STEEL, and J. GRIMES (CLEMENT). 
CHARLES A. GRIMES and LEO 

R. McALOON are undertaking ar­rangements for a trip to the Army-Notre Dame football game at New York, Nov. 24. A group of loyal fol­lowers are to embark on the Provi­dence-New York liner on the eve of the game. They will return Sunday night using the same means for trans­portation. Promises and hopes run high for a most enjoyable and suc­cessful trip. 
Other activities contemplated by the club during the coming season include the annual Christmas formal dance, a trip to the Notre Dame-Holy Cross basketball game, a ladies' night entertainment in conjunction with a testimonial dinner to REV. WILLIAM 
J. DOHENY, C.S.C, Superior of Our Lady of Holy Cross Seminary at North Dartmouth, Mass. 
The 'N.otre 1>ame cAlumnus December, 1934 
We were recently honored by the presence of REV. GEORGE FISHER, C.S.C., and REV. ARCHIBALD MC­DOWELL, C.S.C, who are establish­ing a new mission band at North Dartmouth, Mass. Each spoke of their surroundings, on their hopes for a most successful future here, and of the possibility of a retreat for mem­bers of the Rhode Island-Notre Dame Club, sometime next summer. 
Best wishes to: JOHN J. BRADY for his fine and most excellent work in the field of boy guidance. Jack was appointed superintent of Board of Recreation, in the city of Paw­tucket. Single handed he took the inactive playgrounds and organized them into a smoothly functioning sys­tem. He is now the idol of the boys of Pawtucket. Thanks to Jack's ath­letic prowess and his education in Boy Guidance, taught at Notre Dame. 
JOHN MCLAUGHLIN. John has decided to drab his broad shoulders with the banners of a crusader, fol­lowing in the footsteps of Him Who gave him life. Good luck to John in his work as a seminarian at St. Mary's, Maryland. The Rhode Island Club nill miss his active membership. 
JOHN McKIERNAN, having re­ceived his political baptism by being defeated for the representative nomi­nee at the Democratic caucus, decided to continue his education. He s now commuting to Boston University Law School, 
Good luck to the following mem­bers of the class of 1934, now at Harvard: GEORGE BRUNO, DAN­IEL BRENNAN, HARRY ROCKETT, CLYDE LEWIS, GEORGE COMO, JOHN RUPPEL. To THOMAS DAL­TON at Columbia Law School. To WILLIAM POWELL and ANTHOJJY MAERA at Pordham Law School. 
Good luck and every wish for suc­cess to the members of the class of 1934, wherever they may be. 
The Notre Dame-Rhode Island Alumni Club is strongly for Elmer Layden and the boys. We all have a great deal of confidence in Layden and well satisfied with his fine work so far this season. Keep up the good work, Elmer. 
It looks a record breaking year for the Rhode Island club. Activity and Success, is our motto. 
JOHN S. F. McKIERNAN, Secretary. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
I hope that this report will reach you, wherever you may be, before the next edition of your school cheer goes to press. You traveling salesmen of education are hard to reach, but nev­erthless I will take a chance on your receiving this, which is supposed to be a report of the goings-on of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Val­
ley. 
During the Summer the members 

of the Club elected the following as 
members of the Board of Directors: 
GEORGE N. BEAMER, JAMES L 
BOLAND, LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, 
LOXnS C. CHAPLEAU, PEDRO DE 
LANDEEO, PKANCrS JONES, HER­
BERT E. JONES, ELJIER F. LAY­
DEN, ALBERT McGANN, JOSEPH 
NYIKOS, BERNARD O'NEIL, WH^ 
LIAM SHEEHAN. 
PAUL M. BUTLER, retiring Presi­dent, is chairman of the Board, hold­ing office constitutionally,—^we hope. 
The Board of Directors secretly met during my absence from the city and nominated, and elected, the fol­lowing officers: 
Honorary President, REV. JOHN 

F. O'HARA. C.S.C; President, WIL­LIAM F. SHEEHAN; first Vice-Presi­dent, GEORGE N, BEAMER; second Vice-President,HERBERT E. JONTIS: third Vice-President, AL­BERT McGANN; fourth Vice-Presi­dent, MARTIN J. SCHNUR; Treas­urer, LOUIS P. BUCKLEY; Secre­tarj', FRANCIS JONES; Chaplain, REV. FRANCIS BOLAND, C.S.C. 
The Club sponsored a Cabaret Party on Friday, October 12, at the new Jefferson Plaza. Louis Panico and his orchesti-a furnished the music and a floor show entei-tained those present, or at least there is a rumor to that effect. 
The Club plans many, but not too many, activities during the coming year. 
A smoker is planned for sometime in November. 
It is planned to personally contact each alumnus in the Valley and get him actively interested in the Club. 
We will report later on any blood­less revolt and any outcropping of heresy. 
Further affiant saith not. 
FRANCIS JONES. 
Secretary. 

WATERBURY 
A note from JACK ROBINSON conveys the good news that the Waterbury Club expects to have EL­MER LAYDEN as a guest sometime next February. Jack wrote on the stationery of the Young Democratic Club of Waterbury, of which he is chairman of the executive committee. 
WOMEN'S CLUB 
Word from the Registrar's Office says that EILEEN SHEEHAN, A.B. '29, Manchester, New Hampshire, re­cently had her Notre Dame credits sent to the Graduate School of Bos­ton College. 
BIBUOGRAPHY: By Sister M. Roberta, S.S.N.D. 
Our American Jesuits—Dr. James 

J. Walsh, author of The Thirteenth, Greatest of Centuries, etc. N. Y. Mac­miUan Co., 1934. ?2.50. 
White WampiLm, — Frances Taylor Patterson. N. Y. Longmans, Green and Co. 1934. $2.00. 
The Doctrine of the Mystical Body of Christ, according to the Principles of the Theology of St. Thomas Abbe Anger, trans. Rev. J. J. Burke, C.S.P., 
S.T.D. N. Y. Benziger Bros. 1931. ?4.00. 
Review—The Thomistic principles which form a basis for this work should be sufficient guarantee of the soundness of its theology and its practical application to Christian life. In Part I Abbe Anger treats of the doctrine of the Mystical Body in its relation to our redemption through Christ the Head. Part II is an expo­sition of the role which the sacra­ments play in this doctrine, especially in the furtherance of the members' personal holiness. In Part HI he pre­sents the idea of the Church as the Mystical Body, and considers the con­sequent bearing of this doctrine upon Christian morale. Its implication of an unhoped for intimacy with God elevates the moral principles govern­ing the individual, the family, and the home, and strongly motivates our duties in regard to our bodies and our souls. In Part IV the author pre­sents as the culmination of the doc­trine, the fullness of Christ in Heav­en, with the necessary implications which make our faith more intellig­ible and more inviting: 
"Lookinc upon this Body of which Christ is the Head, whose members are so closely related to Christ and to one another, no one will experience any difllculty in drawinjr from that intimate comparison the full moral ideal for the conduct of a Christian in his Indiv­idual and social life." (p. 353) 
This is the dominant tone of the whole treatise, beneath which vibrates a clear note of trust, of deep-laid hope, based upon the idea that our intimate union -ivith the Mystical Body argues strongly in favor of a merciful judgment: 
"Christ Himself is predestined to be the Son of God by nature. We ourselves are pre­destined to divine sonship by adoption, and thereby we share in a certain way in natural sonship" (p. 339) — 
an a priori argument that God the Father ivills our salvation as he can­not but will the eternal happiness of His Divine Son in Heaven. 
In "The Doctrine of the Mystical Body of Christ" Abbe Anger not only gives us a new and uplifting notion of the dignity of man, but utterly trans­figures one's concept of life, its obli­gations, its responsibilities, its priv­ileges, its hopes. 

MARRIAGES • 
GERARD J. SMITH, '26, and Miss Katherine A. King, of Rochester, New York, were married Nov. 29, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
EARL C. WORTHINGTON, '2T, and Miss Catherine Driscoll, of Springfield, 111., were married at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, on Nov. 10. 
ELIAS G. THOMAS, '28, and Miss Juanita Dillon, of South Bend, were married on Nov. 17, at the Log Chap­el, Notre Dame. 
WILLARD P. WAGNER, '28, and Miss Helen M. Harding, of South Bend, were married on Nov. 7, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
HAYES MURPHY, '27, and Miss Louise Kivlin, Davenport, Iowa, were married on Nov. 24, at Sacred Heart Cathedral, Davenport. 
KIRWIN J. WILLIAMS, '28, and Miss Katherine Kelly, Little Rock, Arkansas, were married Sept. 3, in St. Mary's Church, San Antonio, Texas. 
WALTER J. TOUSSAINT, '28, and Miss Elizabeth Ellen Poy were married on last June 5, in Charles­ton, W. Virginia. 
CHARLES E. MEYER, '29, and Miss Sue Hudspeth were married on Nov. 10, in Dallas, Texas. FRANK MEYER, '24, and BOB TYLER, '29, served as ushers. 
THOMAS G. MURPHY, '30, and Miss Dana Marie McGuire were mar­ried in Franklin, Pennsylvania, on Oct. 6. 
T. JOHN FOLKS, Jr., '30, and Miss Bemice M. O'Keefe, were niar­ried on Nov. 21, at St. Mel's Church, Chicago. • 
CARROLL J. WILSON, '31, and Miss Henrietta KroU, of Michigan City, Indiana, were married last August 17. 
FREDERICK WELLINGTON, Jr., ex. '31, and Miss Nancy Humble were married on Oct. 27, in South Bend. 
MATTHEW L CULLINAN, '31, and Miss Alfreda Sbarboro were mar­ried on Nov. 3, in Santa Cruz, Calif. 
EDWARD E. RHATIGAN,- ex. '34, and Miss Gertrude Rigney were mar­ried Nov. 29, in Chicago. 
HUGH J. McNARNEY, '32, and Miss Esther E. Rpckstroh, of South Bend, were married Nov. 15, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
CHARLES PETRETIC, '32, and Miss Helen Eulitz, of South Bend, were married Oct. 29, at St. Joseph's Church, South Bend. 
LEONARD W. CONDON, '32, and Miss Miriam Crowe were married Nov. 10, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
ZIGMUND H. KITKOWSKI, '33, 

and Miss Helen E. Balasa were mar­
ried on Nov. 7, at the Log Chapel, 
Notre Dame. 
FRANKLIN C. SCHUELL, '31, 

and Miss Hazel G. McCormick were 
married on November 24, in South 
Bend. 
WILLIAM H. BENITZ, '25, and Mrs. Ella N. Ziegler were married on November 24, at St. Nicholas Church, New York City. 
EDWARD R. BRENNAN, '31, and Miss Iris Pettis, of Gary, Indiana, were married November 24 at Notre Dame. 

BIRTHS • 
Mr. and Mrs. 'WILLARD JONES, 
'25, announce the arrival of a son, 
Patrick, on Oct. 30, Dixon, Illinois. 
LEO J. POWERS, '25, sends us the news of the arrival of a daugh­ter, Sheila Ann, to Mr. and Mrs. AN­DREW F. CONLIN, '26. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH SIMONIN, '28, announce the birth of a daughter, Joanne Marie, on Nov. 5. Mr. and Mrs. HENRY HASLEY, '28, announce the arrival of Rita Rosalie, on Oct. 17, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
LOUIS HANEY, '29, sends us the news of the birth of a son to Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT SOPER, '30, of Newark, New York. 
Mr. and Mrs. LOUIS CHAPLEAU, 
'30, announce the arrival of a daugh­
ter, Mary Adrienne, on Oct. 23, South 
Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE BAL­
DINGEK, '31, are the parents of a 
son, James Edward, bom on Nov. 7, 
South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. SUL­LIVAN, Jr., '31, announce the arriv­al of a daughter, Joan Grant, on Oct. 29, South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. OLIVER P. POW­
ERS announce the birth of a daugh­
ter, Gail Ann, on Nov. 7, Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. HENRY D. HIN­TON, '30, are the parents of a son, William Henry, bom Oct. 27, South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRED JOYCE, '19, 
Cleveland, are the parents of a 
daughter, bom October 23. 

DEATHS 
FRANK HAGENBARTH, a stu­dent at Notre Dame from 1882 to 1886, member of Notre Dame's first football team, died on Oct. 27. Mr, Hagenbarth had been in California for some time for his health. He was one of the leading figures in Idaho for many years. A son, Frank Hag­enbarth, Jr., was graduated from Notre Dame in 1927. Mr. Hagen­barth attended the famous reuniion of the first team, held on the campus ten years ago, at Homecoming. Death claimed another member of the first football team, GEORGE A. HOUCK, left tackle or rusher on that famous team. Mr. Houck, who also enjoyed that famous reunion in '24, died on July 20, according to word received this month from his widow, Mrs. Mary HOUCK, 4417 N. Ganten­bein Ave., Portland Ore. 
HARRY J. ANLEITNER, student from '18-'20 and elected member of the Association, died the last week of June in El Paso, Texas, where he had been a patient at St. Joseph's Sani­torium. Harry was originally a resi­dent of Kansas City. 
The ALUMNTJS extend sincere sym­pathy to: SAMUEL HYDE, '33, upon the death of his father; to BERN­ARD J. ZIMMERMAN, '34, upon the death of his father; PAUL BROK­HAGE, '28, upon the death of his mothter; TOM LAVIN, ex. '31, upon the death of his father. 
The ALUMNUS is pleased to report that recent extension of sympathy to the CANNON boys. Jack and Dan, was misplaced. A letter from Dan says, ''In fact we had a 76th birth­day for Dad two months ago and he is very much alive and In good health." 

PERSONALS • 1880-1885 
From the thoughtful FATHE R JOHN W. CAVANAUGH comes the pleasing news that MONSIGNOR JAJVIES A. SOLON, B.S. '84, M.S. '86, 
A.M. '92, of DeKalb, Illinois, partici­pated prominently in a recent church and dedication service in his commun­ity. Monsignor Solon, a devoted alum­nus, presented a sketch on the begin­ning of the Catholic Church in De­Kalb County. 
• 1895 
Every time the ALUMNUS arrives 
. and I find nothing in it about the class of 1895 (of which I am supposed to be secretary) my conscience gnaws me, and each time I say, if it gnaws again, I will ^vrite to the ALUMNUS even if I have no news. 
The November ALUMNUS has just come and this time the "ayenbite of inwit" is so strong that I am con­strained to make public confession of 
The l^otre 1>ame cAlumnus December, 1934 
my delinquency as secretary. The fact is that, living in California, I am virtually out of touch with the few other members of the class, and, through the depression, the Job of keeping the home fires burning has prevented me from travelling beyond the state border, except for a trip abroad. 
WTiile I see nothing of the class­mates of 1895 and have not heard from any of them for a long while, I meet occasionally a few graduates of later years. ANGUS MAC DONALD, as president of the Southern Pacific Company, is stationed in San Fran­cisco, where he has become not only a leader but a popular leader. Him I see not infrequently. Occasionally I meet KEENE FITZPATRICK, who represents Liberty magazine in these parts and is now a well-knon-n Cali­fomian. It is probably my own fault that I do not meet many of the other Notre Dame men here. 
Of course, I see frequently the t\vo who are members of my family. EUSTACE, JR., who was graduated with you in 1925, got his J.D. from' Stanford in 1928 and is now asso­ciated with his granduncle, former Chief Justice Matt I. Sullivan, and \vith Senator Hiram W. Johnson and Theodore J. Roche in the practice of the law. 

MATT I. CULLINAN, of the class of 1931, was married last Saturday (Nov. 3) to Miss Alfreda Sbarboro, a graduate of the Academy of the Sacred Heart and of the University of California. He and his bride are living in Santa Cruz, California, where Matt is employed by the Coast Counties Power Co., to which he transferred from the Fox Film Cor­poration. 
Each of the two yoimger boys reg­istered at Notre Dame, but at the last minute Vincent decided to go to Santa Clara, where he was gradu­ated last year. He is now at Stanford law school. Gerald, the youngest, was registered for admission to Notre Dame in the fall of 1933, but at the last moment, he went over to Oxford, tried the "responsions," passed, and has matriculated at AVorcester Col­lege, where he is now residing. 
The November ALUMNUS brings to me mention of such familiar names as those of JIM McKEE, '93, HUGH O'D O N N E L L, '94, and FATHER JOHN W . C A V A N A U G H . 
Of course, your trained mind will realize that all this talk is a smoke screen designed to hide the fact that I have fallen down on my job as sec­retary of the class of 1895 and in­tended to salve my gnawing con­science. When my conscience gnaws again, I shall write more. 
EUSTACE CULLINAN 
1903 
ALEXI S COQUILLARD was elected recorder of St. Joseph Coim­ty, Indiana, at the November election. 
• 1905 
DAN O'CONNOR and Mrs. O'Con­nor sailed down from Chicago for the Wisconsin battle. 
• 1910 
HARRY MILLER with a party of 
friends from Cleveland saw Notre 
Dame conquer Wisconsin on Oct. 27. 
• 
1911 
FRED STEERS was another to 
bring Chicago greetings to the Wis­
consin game. The Alumni secretary 
and assistant Alumni secretary also 
had the pleasure of riding to and 
from Evanston with Fred on the day 
that Elmer's boys tamed the Wildcats. 
• 
1912 
JOE McGLYNN, of East St. Louis fame, was the center of a happy group of friends when the Alumni Office scout met him just before the Wisconsin game. 
J. ELMER PEAK was returned to the superior court bench at the South Bend election last month. 
• 1913 

JOHN O'CONNELL, Chicago, re­tains his post as probate judge as the result of the w.k. recent election. Incidentally, John served admirably as toastmaster at the banquet which the Notre Dame club of Chicago spon­sored at the University club on the night before the Northwestern game. 
BYRON HAYES, of Fort Wayne, is the prosecuting attorney of Allen County, Indiana, as the result of the voting on Nov. (3. Byron was in Chi­cago for the Chicago Club banquet on Nov. 16 and for the Northwestern game the following day. 
• 1914 

DOC NIGRO checked in at Alumni Office on the day of the Wisconsin fracas. 
• 
1915 

JOHN STACK came through suc­cessfully in the recent voting battle and retains his position as auditor-general of the state of Michigan. 
FATHER KERNDT HEALY is well established on his new estate near Rolling Prairie. In other words, he is the superior of St. Joseph's No­vitiate, Rolling Prairie, Indiana, and would be delighted to hear there from his innumerable friends. 
'• 1917 
Senator DAVID I. WALSH, LL.D., '17, is still Senator Walsh, following the recent hostilities. 
1918 
VINCE GIBLIN, Miami, Florida, braved the cool blasts to see Elmer's hot ball handlers do things to Wis­consin on Oct. 27. 
1920 
CHARLIE GRIMES and WAL­TER MILLER, Notre Dame rooters de liixe, were also present — at the Wisconsin argument. 
• 
1921 
The Class of '21 is a perfectly 
marvelous class, with the single ex­
ception of the writer, who frankly 
admits that he is a perfectly "lousy" 
class secretary. If I didn't admit it, 
the evidence would show it. 
However, in spite of the fact that 
our group is scattered all over the 
world, I did accidently run across a 
few of our esteemed class members 
during the past summer. They all 
seemed to be prosperous — at least 
within reason—and still think Notre 
Dame is pretty dam good. 
For instance, there is JAMES 
GERALD CRAUGH, who is making 
a fine job of masticating law books 
here in New York City. Jerry reports 
daily in his law office at the extreme 

tip of Manhattan Island in the heart 
of that district where all the other 

barons of finance spend their fretful 
hours. 
And then there is GEORGE WIT­TERIED. Imagine my fiendish de­light to have Mr. Ed Hales, Treasur­er of our company, advise me that he "licked the pants off" my old class­mate George in the tournament finals in Chicago. I understand George is heading up a big butter and egg busi­ness in Chicago, and assume that he gets his golf practice socking slightly used eggs around his office. Anyhow, he must be pretty darn good to even qualify for the finals in competition \vith an Outdoor Advertising man of Ed Hales' inferior ability as, a golfer. 
Kindly mention in the next issue of the ALUMNUS, as a personal favor to me, that as class secretary I have nothing to report unless I have some­thing to report. In other words, kind­ly put an S.O.S. at the top and bot­tom and both sides of such portions of the '21 class notes as you care to publish. 
You might also mention my latitude and longitude as One West 25th St., at the intersection of Fifth Avenue and Broadway, New York City. The name of my ship is General Outdoor Advertising Co. 
AL CUSICK 
• 

1922 
The class secretary, KID ASHE, sends the following from ye goode olde Buffalo: 
FATHER GEORGE FISCHER is now with the Holy Cross Mission fathers who have recently established a Mission headquarters at North Dartmouth, Mass to serve the eastern portion of the country. North Dart­mouth is just a short distance from New Bedford. Up to the present time Father George has been conducting Forty Hours Devotion in eastern cities preparatory to engaging in the more arduous mission work. 
Men of '22 are asked to remember in their prayers the souls of two bril­liant and popular classmates who died during the past summer — HARRY HOFFMAN and EARL DICKENS. AH of us knew them and loved their companionship. 
JOHN HUETHER is M.-ith the Gen­eral Electric Co. of Schenectady. John keeps quite busy visiting the local agencies of GE east of Chicago. 
Attention these days is centered mostly on football. Do not forget the boys on the firing line who are still hammering away trying to build foot­ball teams and attaining no little measure of success. Here they are: HUNK ANDERSON at North Caro­lina State, CHET WYNNE at Ken­tucky, BUCK SHAW at Santa Clara, EDDIE ANDERSON at Holy Cross, and HARRY MEHRE at Georgia. RODGE KILEY is now receiving passes from the other Chicago alder­men, but, as ever, he can take a lot of punishment. 
S. EUGENE CARMODY, of Elm­hurst, 111., still maintains that the 20 cents he loaned JIM JONES back in May, "1921 has no connection with the defaulted war loans. 
GERRY JONES and VINCE HAN­RAHAN, the former from g.o. Dixon, Illinois and the latter from Guate­mala City, way down south in Cen­tral America, combined forces at the Wisconsin session. 
MARK STOREN, Michigan City, Indiana, is the prosecutor of LaPorte County, following that thar election, 
JOHN MAHONEY, of Enid, Okla., Box G32, made the Wisconsin game the occasion for a very pleasant visit %vith the Alumni Office force. 
1923 
DAN LYNCH, is a new state sen­ator in Indiana. Dan has his offices in the Lloyd Building, Hammond. 
GEORG E UHLMEYER, 4434 Tenth Avenue, Rock Island, Illinois, second vice-chairman of the Rock Island Chapter, American Red Cross, was appointed chairman for the chap­ter's annual roll call which opened Nov. 11. 
JOHN COCHRANE reported at the University on Oct. 27. 
An Oct. 30 letter from PAUL CASTNER was a bit late for the November ALUMNUS. Paul had been to the Texas game and thought the 
The l^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
team had looked good, even in defeat. He had seen Father JOHN CAVAN­AUGH, ED SHEA an d FRANK WALLACE. Ed, Paul said, is still in Dayton making fine progress in the law field and Frank has given up his New York Neius connection to do free-lance ^vriting for magazines, newspapers and Hollywood. 
• 

1924 
JOE WAGNER and HAROLD LONDO came to town for the Wis­consin game. Joe takes care of the nation's feet—^he's with the SchoU organization in Chicago—and lives at 3751 North Marshfield Avenue, Chi­cago. He was returning from a trip to New York when he stopped for the Wisconsin encounter. Harold is a large portion of the city engineering force in Green Bay, Wisconsin. 
JOE RYAN writes that he is back in Tuscon, Arizona, (at the Hotel Geronimo). His course of treatments is finished but he expects to remain in the Arizona atmosphere until next spring. He plans to be back on the campus for the 1935 Conunencement. Joe is attending class, one hour a day, at the University of Arizona. 
EDDIE MURPHY, late genius of the late Detroit Mirror, is now assist­ant public relations expert for the subsistence homestead division of the Department of the Interior, joining the N. D. New Dealers in Washing­ton. Eddie writes Registrar BOB RIORDAN: I have come across two or three former campus playmates here. RAY G.ALL.AGHER, who is professor of political science at De Paul University, worked three months during the summer as advisor on per­sonnel administration for the Farm Credit Administration. He could have remained permanently but returned to teaching. Gallagher tells me VINCE ENGELS is in town but as yet I haven't run into him. BEN PISER was here on his honeymoon. DICK LIGHTFOOT is frequently seen in the vicinity of Corcoran Art Gallery and the report is he is about to open his own gallery. (Eddie is also attending .American U.) 
JIM HAYES sez: Perhaps you heard, perhaps you didn't that Miss Helen Hayes arrived in our family in the early summer. This makes two— Anne and Helen, and both are among the most attractive of New York's many attractive young ladies. Inci­dentally the Hayes family has moved —^^ve are now located at 35-15 87th Street, Jackson Heights. There are several Notre Dame men thereabouts. I was elected secretary and a member of the Board of Governors of the University Club of Jackson Heights with representatives from 26 colleges and universities in the club's mem­bership of 200. There are only four Notre Dame men in the club but we 
hope to make our presence known. I would like to hear from Notre Dame men of the class of '24. High in my tower in the Empire State Building I feel at loss as the class secretary. 
1925 
BEN KESTING and BERNIE LIVERGOOD were among the '25ers who cheered the Wisconsin victory. 
By a large majority, JOHN KEL­LEY, Michigan City, Indiana, was re­turned to the ofSce of county surveyor of LaPorte County at the recent com­bat. 
And HUGH "RED" MAGEVNEY, of Memphis, was elected to the state legislature. He will be one of the two Notre Dame men in that body. TOM TRAUGHBEE, of Clarksville, is the other. 
JOHN KILKENNY has announced the formation of a partnership for the practice of law under the firm name of Ealey, Kilkenny and Ealey, Pendleton, Oregon. 
• 1926 
WALT TROHAN (Trochanowski), star student ujider Prof. Cooney and Prof, Hines, has recently been trans­ferred by the Chicago Tribune from its Chicago headquarters to its Wash­ington Bureau. This decided promo­tion follows Walt's steady rise in Chi­cago newspaper circles. One of his first assignments on the new job was to accompany President Roosevelt on the latter's recent trip through the South. His by-line stories on that trip, some of them featured on Page 1 of the Tribune, reflected Walt's know­ledge of history as well as his facility in journalism. 
GEORGE HAETNETT is still in the peanut business with W. H. Ade & Co., brokers and commission merch­ants. Distributors building, Chicago. 
LEW CODY, with brother-in-law, Joe Wagner in tow, was one of the Wisconsin rooters. 
According to the best reports ART BIDWILL, River Forest potentate, is a state senator-elect in Illinois. He rang up his victory, of course, at the recent election. 
• 1927 
The Registrar's Ofiice reports that JIM BROWN applied for admission to the Graduate School of Business Administration of New York Univer­sity. 
ED McKENNA of The McKenna-Yeoman Furniture Co., Kingman, Kans., writes as follows in sending in his dues: 
"Since leaving school I have worked for two oil companies and'then taken 
T h e 'Notre "Dame oAlumnus December, 1934 
out for myself in the furniture busi­
ness in the same town that I left for 
Notre Dame. Am married and have 
one son two years old. 
"Classmates or schoolmates that 
 have recently seen are the 
SCHWARTZ boys of Wilson, Kans., 
who are in the hardware and pump 
business; NESTOR WEIGAND in 
the real estate business in Wichita 
and LAWRENCE WEIGAND prac­
ticing law there; also AL GEBERT, 
coach at Wichita University." 

e 1928 
Tiffin, Ohio, was represented by 
ROSWELL LEAHY at the Wisconsin 
game. And Benton, Wisconsin, sent 
JIM KEARNS. 
JIM CONMEY has become associ­
ated with Whitehouse & Co., stock 
brokers, with headquarters at 111 
Broadway, New York City. 
• 
1929 
BILL NEFF, who recently became the husband of Virginia Gardner of South Bend, is teaching in Mandan High school, Mandan, North Dakota. 
• 
1930 
TOM TRAUGHBBR, Clarks\'ille, 
Tennessee, is now known as Repre­
sentative Traughber down in his home 
territory. Unopposed in the Novem­
ber election, he received a large com­
plimentary vote. Tom won the Dem­
ocratic nomination for representative 
last August. 
ED YOBKE is an interne in the 
Newark City hospital, Newark, New 
Jersey, according to word flashed by 
BILL KARL, '32. 
JIM RAINIER, Fowler, Indiana, recently asked Registrar Riordan to send hom a transcript of his credits. 
BERNIE CONROY coaxed the fol­lowing from his type\vriter: 
Mr. and Mrs. Carroll Herbert Dike-man announce the marriage of their daughter, Carrie Elizabeth, to MR. JAMES ANDREW JL4XL0Y on Tues­day the 20th of November, 1934 at the Shrine of the Sacred Heart Church in the City of Washington. 
BILL SINGER is now located in New York City where he is working for a finance company. 
GEORGE VLK and FOD COTTON were in Pittsburgh last week to scout Duquesne for their game nith Cath­olic University. They didn't see much as JOE BACH'S team had one of its very bad days. It was a tough blow for Joe but watch his club next year. 
DANIEL F. CANNON, Jr., is now associated with the Bancohio Securi­ties Co., in Columbus, Ohio. 

JERRY REIDY, JOHN RONEY, ED SLICK and MATT WARD have declared their intentions to be on hand for our class re-union in June. 
DAN BARTON lives at 3202 GuU­ford Ave., Baltimore, Md. Dan is in the employ of the Sanitary Grocery Co. of that city. 
JOE FRIEL is located in that same district. His address is Relay, Md., where he is struggling along as assistant treasurer of the Maryland Distillery Co. 
Mr. and Mrs. DONALD SCHET­TIG of Ebensburg, Pa., have an­nounced the birth of a daughter, Bar­bara on Oct. 4. Don's wife is the former Frances McCarty of Atlanta, Ga. and DAVE BARRY acted as best man at the wedding last year. 
DIC K O'DONNELL is getting along well as a reporter on the Pitts­burgh Sun-Telegraph. 
JIM HARRIGAN is trj-ing to put all of the people in Pittsburgh to work, but he says that the jobs are a little scarce. You know he is man­ager of the Steel City Employment Bureau. 
GENE EDWARDS is doing a great job of coaching at St. Vincent's Col­lege of Latrobe, Pa. His team is one of the few unbeaten teams in this district 
FRANK BUCKLEY and TOM REESE of Cannonsburg manage to get into Pittsburgh now and then. 
• 1931 
DAN. HALPIN, assistant sales manager of the Sonotone Corporation, combined business and a visit with the BERT MALONEY family when he was in South Bend on Nov. 1. In­cidentally, Bert's home and his new heir (fondly called "Butch" by the proud papa) attracted large quotas of the boys during those October football week-ends. 
EARL BRIEGER is attending Du­quesne Law School and living at 257 North Craig street, Pittsburgh, ac­cording to a message from Regis­trar Riordan w^ho had just trans­ferred Earl's credits. 
JOE DUNNE, of El Paso, is finish­ing his law course at the University of Texas, Austin. 
CHARLIE McGRAIL, ex. '31, of Battle Creek, had his credits trans­ferred from Notre Dame to Michigan State at Lansing a few weeks ago. 
A note from his mother at Flat River, Missouri, conveys the news that EDWIN ROHRBACH entered the novitiate of the Brothers of Mary at Maryhurst Normal, Kirkwood, Missouri, in August, 1933. 
• 
1932 
JOE STODOLA, ex. '32, was elected city judge of Hammond, In­diana, on Nov. 6. 
JOE CAREY, Endicott, New York, president of the Notre Dame Triple Cities club, visited the University on Nov. 17. 
FRAN K OBERKOETTER, has formally announced the opening of his photographic studio at 220 North Center Street, Bloomington, Illinois. An expert photographer even during his Notre Dame days, Frank will give his decided talents to both portrait work and commercial work. Alumni babies, please note! 
TOM FEELY was over from Joliet for the Wisconsin game. 
Comes the word from the local Reg­istrar's office that JOE NUGENT has applied for admission to the Gradu­ate School of Business Administra­tion of New York University. 
DR. COONEY is very thoughtfully responsible for the news that ART HIMBERT, heretofore of Rock Island Illinois, is now working on the edi­torial side of a paper in Daytona Beach, Florida. Art did an outstand­ing job as secretary-publicity director of the Tri-Cities Notre Dame club and his services will be sorely missed there in the Layden homeland. He was particularly active at the time of the Layden homecoming banquet last March. 
ALBERT BRASSEUR has come from his Clarksburg, West Virginia, to take over a new job in the plant of the Mishawaka Rubber and Woolen Mfg. Co. 
JOHN JORDAN is to enter, or has entered. New York University, ac­cording to word coming along the grapevine. 
• 1933 
JIMMY ASH, who spent a year in the advertising department of the South Bend Tribune, has entered the Graduate School of Business Admin­istration of New York University for further work in advertising. 
DON MARTIN, on his way from Pittsburgh to the Navy game in Cleveland, got himself into an auto­mobile accident and was seriously in­jured. The latest reports say that he is recovering satisfactorily. 
MARTIN LINKSEY asked the N. 
D. registrar. Captain Riordan, to for­ward his credits to the University of Chicago. 
• 1934 

CHARLIE HECKELMANN is writing sports for the Brooklyn Daily Eagle, associated in that capacity with HARRY SYLVESTER, '30, who in four years out of school has made for himself a particularly wide repu­tation as a short story writer and novelist. 
JOHN BRUST, of Milwaukee, is taking advanced work at the Catholic University, Washington, D. C. 
And BOB NACHTWEY is attend­ing the St. Louis University Medical schooL 
Not to mention the fact the JIM 

December, 1934 The 1^0 tre 'Dame cA lumnus 
CURRAN is at the University of Nebraska Law school, in Lincoln. 
BILL MANARD, 2300 Senecea St., Buffalo, New York, sent a letter ask­ing Registrar Riordan for his credits. 
MAURICE GARLAND was over from Kewanee, Illinois for the Wis­consin game and to visit with his brother RAPHAEL, '37. 
DICK CHAPLEAU is with Gener­al Motors in New York City. 
Word of DON BRICE'S interest­ing life at Oxford comes from EUS­TACE CULLINAN, '95, of San Fran­cisco, whose son, Gerald, is also an Oxford student. Dan and Gerald met while having tea with Father Ronald Knox. Because of their Notre Dame association (two of Mr. CuUinan's sons, EUSTACE, JR., '25, and MATT '31, are Notre Dame alumni) the two have become good friends. 
Don has also become acquainted with James M. Barrie, according to Mr. CuUinan. Calling on Mr. Barrie, after writing his graduation thesis about him and his works, Don re­ceived from the noted English author a letter inviting him to call again whenever he wished to do so. 
Says Class Secretary MOSCOW: Here are a few more "shop shots" of the '34's. 
Let's take a look at Chicago first. There GENE BLOEMSM.A. busies himself during the week with the Fruit Auction Sales Co. and on Sun­days calls signals for Our Lady of Grace football team the ranking 
C.Y.O. squad of the city. 
GENE HOLLAND recently became affiliated with the Federal Housing Commission—"Nothing- like being a government man," says Gene. 
FRANK CRAWFORD, of Lowell Mass., gives us a little "in" on LEO BRUGGER and JACK LANDERS. Leo vacationed this summer in Eu­rope while Jack has set aside his rail­road business temporarily to work for a wholesale grocery company in Springfield, Mo. All that "Bunny" imparted about himself was that he, too, is a son of toil, commuting daily between Lowell and Boston. 
BILL HUISKING left his drug business in New York City to see Notre Dame beat Wisconsin. That's what should be termed ideal alum­nus loyalty. He was accompanied by another young brother, no doubt an­other N. D. prospect. He'll make it five for five for the Huisking family and Notre Dame. 
DON DUGAN deviates from the general run of "company men." He has a little racquet all his own as as­sistant squash professional at a New York City athletic club. 
And now last but not least—for the present. We have TONY ANZ­LOVAR contemplating matriculation at Harvard next semester. Tony al­ways did feel that Cleveland should be better known in the East. Well, here's its chance for recognition. 
That's all for now, Jim. 
E 
IVEN the bellboys t}'pify the kind of attention travellers 
expect on a Cunard White Star Cruise. Such senice is traditional... no small part of Cunard White Star cruise pleasures arises from tliis very sense of trained personnel with long established traditions to maintain. Now to that tradition and all tliat Cunard Wliite Star implies have heen joined the skill and resources of three other great names in travel... to produce this out­standing program of winter vacations. You may choose among 28 different cruises . . . leave as early as December or as late as April . . . stay away from 3 to 139 days . . . spend from 845 to S1750. This winter make your vacation one of these Sunshine Cruises. 
BRITANNIC 

FRANCONIA CARINTHIA 
West Indies, South America. 

Around-The-World Cruise. A 6.day Cruise to Nassau 
13 ports, 18 days, S210 up. 

139 days, 33 ports, 37,070 every Saturday from Jan­
From New York Feb. 1, 26. 

iniles.RatesfromS!730(shore uary 26 to April 13, S70 up. 
Mar. 19. 3-day cruise to 

excursions included). From One-way rate, S65 up; round-
Bermuda, S45 up. In coopera-

N. Y. Jan. 12 ... Los Angeles trip with stop-over, S85 up. tionwithRaymond-Whitcomb. (SI25Iess)Jan.26. In cooper­
SAMARIA 

ation with Thos. Cook & Son. AQUITANIA 
Mediterranean. 30 ports, 60 

Mediterranean, Egypt, Holy 
days, stop-over privileges. 

GEOR6IC Land. 35 days. Rates, First 
FromN.Y. Feb.2,S525up. In 

West Indies, South America. Class S520 up. Tourist S280 cooperationwithJamesBoring. 11, 13, 14 days. S132.50 to up. From New Y'ork Jan. 31 
S167.50 up. From N. Y. Dec and Mar. 9. In cooperation AlsoSpecialHolidayCruises... 19, Feb. 14, Mar. 2,20, Apr. 3. 
with Raymond-Whitcomb. 3to8days...Nassau...Bennuda. 
For detailed information consult your local travel agent or any one of the participating companies: Thos, Cook & Son—IFagonS'Lits Inc.; Raymond-Whitcomb, Inc.; James Boring Company, Inc.; or 



CUNARD WHITE STAR LINE 
jfl man and his tvife tvho had just returned from a roiind-the-ivorld cruise spoke of Chesterf eld as "an international cigarette," 
Above—^Vacuum tin of 50 —air tight—water ught— fully protected even if sub­merged in water. 
Packages of 20 wrapped in Du Pont No . 300 Cello­phane—the best made. 

^.flpiet^ 

.. . that Chesterfield Cigarettes are on sale in 86 countries all over the world. 
It means something that Chesterfields may be purchased on nearly all ships and at almost every port. 
It means that for a cigarette to enjoy such popularity, it must have merit. We do our level best to make Chesterfield as good a cigarette as can be made. 
Smokers say. .. almost every language 
© 1935. LIGGETT & MYEES TOBACCO CO. 







