The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
^Y.^:.w:^f*i^-^^.^^-i^et^^^^^'m'S!^'B-f:?f7i4:7'f^r^^^^^ •HV^.R-.sr^^a. 
^­ 
..•^ \  
y  
i*^'  
/^ <^ •^ -:^­ M  '"^^^  
Vol. 42, No. 6  S^*R5N;­- :• •m Year End, 1964  
?ig^<  >yc^. s.­ NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS  

Year End, 1964 
Vol. 42, No. 6 
JOHN F. LAUGHLIN, '4S. Monoging Editor 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG. '25, Ed/for 


NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
BRUCE HARLAN, '49, Photograp^

REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELl, C.S.C, '41^ Columnist 

Contents: 
SPORTS: FOOTBALL '64. Charles Callahan '38 
3

A season for the record book, plus basketball notes EDITORIAL: MEDIATION. James E. Armstrong '25 
5

"The new dynamic" at work on the campus WHAT IT TAKES: TESTS & FROSH PROFILES. Rev. Joseph Hoffman CSC 
6

Part two of a new series for college-bound alumni children JFK ANNIVERSARY MEMORIAL: Parallel in History. Lawrence J. Culliney '28 
9

Also Kennedy Scholarships & Memorial Mass DOUBLE PLAY: COSTIN TO KLIER (Leo '46) 
10 

Twenty years between strikingly similar sports photos PEACE CORPS —JUBILEE ALL-AMERICAN (John Kelleher'40) 
II 

In service and surgery, "we're number one" ALUMNI IN ART—II: John Lochtefeld '55, muralist 
12 

Recent work by a talented liturgical painter NOTRE DAME BOOKS — Portfolio on Philanthropy 
13 

Plus photo of John Kelleher's family (see page 11) STUDENT SLANT: TRADITIONAL & NEW. James P. Harnisch '65 
14 

The fall semester & tragedy at Innsbruck LAW SCHOOL NEWS. Thomas ShafFer L'61 
15 

Notes on fall legal developments MAN & THE MOMENT. Rev. Thomas O'Donnell CSC 
16 

Men of the past, a port of our present CHICAGO GOLF DAY & SPORTS NIGHT DINNER 
17 

Photographic highlights (story on page 20) NOTRE DAME CLUBS 
18 

Directory, summer pix & a ten-page roundup THIRD INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION Announcement with pix of last spring on Grand Bahama 28 NOTRE DAME CLASSES Thirty pages of statistics, spotlights, reports & pix 31 BACK COVER: Letter from Philip J. Foccenda '51 
60 

Year-end report by the Alumni Assn. president 

Cover: 
Sophomore tackle Al Page (wearing number 78) vaults past fallen comrade Tom Longo (9) to demonstrate the kind of pursuit that helped return the ND football team to top national rankings during the past season. Before a last-game topple to determined Southern California, Irish red-dogging had resulted in some new records (see story on opposite page) and held foes like Wisconsin to humiliating minus yardage. Teammates Jim Carroll, John Huarte and Jack Snow became latest entries in a long list of Irish Ail-Americans. "Ara go bragh!" 


ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers  
OLIVER H . HUNTER  III, '43  
Honorary  President  
PHILIP J. FACCENDA, '51  President  
PETER J. KERNAN, JR., '49  

Fund Vice-Presid^ 

ALBERT D . CASTELLINI, '24 
: Club Vice-President 

TIMOTHY J. TOOMEY, '30 
Class Vice-President 

JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25^ 
Executive Secretary 

Directors to 1965 

ALBERT D . CASTELLINI, '24 
506 First National Bank Building, Cincinnati, O. PHIUP J. FACCENDA, '51 ^ 1510 Ogden, LaGrange, 111. • 
PETER J. KERNAN, JR., '49 661 Washington Rd., Crosse Poinic, Mich. TIMOTHY J. TOOMEY, '30 60 Mohawk St., Cohoes, X.Y. 

Directors to 1966 

GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR. '44 4M Golf Rd., Deal Park, N.J. PAUL I. FENLON, '19 141 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. MORTON R. GOODMAN, '30 2415 Pilgrimage Trail, Los Angeles 2B, Calif. 
W. LANCASTER SMITH, '50 Dallas Athletic Club Building, Dallas 1, Tex. ^ 

Directors to 1967 

THOMAS P. CARNEY, '37 1930 N. Green Bay Rd., Lake Forest, III. BERTRAND D . COUCHLIN, M.D., '26 16 Thoradell Dr., St. Louis (Richmond Heights), Mo. 63117 WILLIAM V. CUDDY, '52 155 Ralph Ave., White Plains, N.Y. HERBERT M . SAMPSO.V, '50 735 North 57 Ave., Omaha, Neb. 68132 

Chairmen of the 1964 Committees 
PAUL I. FENLON Academic Affa^^ GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR Admissions PETER J. KERNAN, JR." 
Alumni Fund, Foundation & Gifts 

W. LANCASTER SMITH Athletics 
W. LANCASTER SMITH Budget & Finance. TIMOTHY J. TOOMEY Class Activities ALBERT D . CASTELLINI Club Activities PHILIP J. FACCENDA Executive PETER J. KERNAN, JR., AND TIMOTHY 
J. TOOMEY Nominations 

MORTON R. GOODMAN ^ Placement & Job Counseling 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, 
Public Relations & Development PAUL L FENLON Religion & Citizenship MORTON R. GOODMAN Student Affairs 
Tbb tnasaziiie is published bi-monthly by the Uim'crsit>' of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind Entertd as second-class mat­tcr Oct. 1, 1S39, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24 1912. 

2 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 



Sports 

By Charlie Callahan '38 

FOOTBALL '64: A SEASON FOR THE RECORD BOOK 
CAPTAIN CARROLL Three New Defensive Records 

^1 ^ HE 1964 football season will be 
J[ long remembered at Notre Dame. And not just because Coach Ara Par­seghian and his men achieved the ver)' fine record of nine M'ins and but one loss. 
The record book will make sure tliat this will be listed as a great season as it was one in which 24 new Fighting Irish gridiron records were set and two more tied. 
:& Individually, John Huarte, Heisman trophy winner and senior quarterback from Anaheim, Calif., accounted for nine new records and tied anotlier, and Jack Snow, senior split end from Long Beach, Calif., set five others. 
The complete list of records set in 1964 follows: 
COACH PARSEGHIAN Twenty-three Marks on Offense 

SINGLE GAME 
INDIVIDUAL: Most Passes Attempted — 37, John Huarte (Stanford, 1964) . . . Old Record — 35, Bob Williams (Tulane, 1950). Most Passes Completed — 21, John Huarte (Stanford, 1964) . . . Old Record —18, George Izo (Pittsburgh, 1958). Most Rushing and Passing Plays—44, John Huarte (Stanford, 1964) . . . Old Record — 41, Bob Williams (Tulane, 1950). Longest Touchdown Pass Play — 91 yards, John Huarte to Nick Eddy (Pittsburgh, 1964) Old Record — 75 yards, Paul Homung to Jim Morse (Southern Gal, 1955). Most Yards on Pass Receptions — 217, Jack Snow (Wisconsin, 1964) . . . Old Record — 
208, Jim Morse (Southern Cal, 1955). TEAM: Passes Attempted — 44 (Stanford, 1964) . . . Ties record of 44 set against Southern 
Methodist, 1951. Passes Completed —23. (Stanford, 1964) .. . Old Record —20 (Pittsburgh, 1962). Most First Downs by Passing—16 (Southern Cal, 1964) .. . Old Record—14 (Stanford, 
1964). Fewest Net Yards Allowed Rushing—Minus 51 (Wisconsin, 1964). Lowest Average per Rush Allowed — Minus 1.82 (Wisconsin, 1964). 
SEASON INDmOUAL: 
Most Yards Gained Passing — 20&2, John Huarte (1964) . . .Old Record—1374, Bob Williams (1949). Most Yards Gained Passing and Rushing — 2069, John Huarte (1964) .. . Old Record — 1437, Bob Williams (1949). 
Most Total Yards Gained (includes all yardage except punting, points after TDs and field-goal yardage)—2080, John Huarte (1964) .. . Old Record —1981, Paul Homung (1956). 
Most Touchdowns Responsible for (touchdowns scored and touchdown passes thrown) — 
19. John Huarte (1964) .. . Old Record — 17, Bob Williams (1949). Most Passes Completed—114, John Huarte (1964) . . .Old Record — 99, Bob Williams (1950). Most Touchdown Passes Thrown—16, John Huarte (1964) . . . Ties record set by Bob 
Williams (1949). Most Passes Caught — 60, Jack Snow (1964) .. . Old Record —41 , Jim Kelly (1962). Most Yards on Pass Receptions—1114, Jack Snow (1964) . . . Old Record — 523, Jim 
Kelly (1962). Most Touchdown Passes Caught — 9, Jack Snow (1964) . . . Old Record — 7, Jim Mutsch­eller (1950) and ifonty Stickles (1958). 
TEAM: 
Most Yards by Passing~2l05 (1964) .. . Old Record— 1561 (1958). Most Passes Completed — 120 (1964) .. . Old Record—112 (1950). Highest Average Yards per Game Passing — 210.5 (1964) .. . Old Record — 156.1 (1958). Most First Downs by Passing—90 (1964) . . . 0!d Record — 66 (1958). Most First Downs— 215 (1964) .. . Old Record — 206 (1953). Fewest Punts —30 (1964) .. . Old Record —32 (1954). 
CAREER 
Most Yards on Pass Receptions — \2i2. Jack Snow (1962-64) . . . Old Record-r-1166. Joe Heap (1951-54). 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
ig64 Final 

Statistics 
RUSHING 

PUAYER  T C  YARDS  AVG.  
U'olski, Bill  _ 136  657  4.8  
Eddy, Nick  ..  98  490  5.0  
Farrell, Joe  —  _  93  387  4.2  
Kantor, Joe  .  47  158  3.4  
Andrcotti,  Pete ..  _  33  115  3J  
Conway, Denny ..  _  16  E6  4.1  
Rassas, Nick  _  3  37  12J  
Mcrkic, Bob  ..  4  8  2.0  
Huarte, John  —  ._ 37  
ZIoch, Bill  .  I  I.O  
Bonvechio, .Alex .  .  3  .8  
Carey. Tony  -9  

KICKOFF RETURNS 

PL,\YER 0 . YARDS AVG. Eddy, Nick 7 148 21.1 Rassas, Nick 4 103 25.8 Wolski, Bill 2 49 24J .Andrcotti, Pete -1 12 12.0 Kantor, Joe 1 8 8.0 Meeker. Bob 1 0 
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 

TACKLES: Jim Carroll 140; Ken Maglicic 88; Tom Kostelnik 81; Tom Longo 72; Tom Regncr 68; Don emitter 54; N'ick Rassas 51; Tony Carey 46; Jim Lynch and Alan Page 41; Kenn Hardy 38; Aninas Vasys 35; Pete Andreotti and Mike Wadsuorth II; John Meyer 10; Ken Ivan and Alan Loboy 8; Paul Costa 7; John Homey 6; Vincc Mattcra 5; Dick Saugct 4; George Gocddekc, Harry Long 3; Bob Meeker, N'onn N'lcola, Phil Sheridan 2; Xick Eddy, Bob Mcrkle, Allen Sack, Jack Snow, Jim Snow-den, Tom Talaga. ^{ikc Webster, Bill Zlocli 1. 
OPPONENTS* FUMBLES RECOVERED: Don Gmittcr, Ken Maglicic, Alan Page, Tom Regner 2; Tony Carey, Paul Costa, Tom Kostelnik, Tom Longo, Phil Sheridan, Aninas Vasys I. 
BLOCKED KICKS: Kevin Hardy 2. 
PASSES BROKEN UP: Tony Carey and Tom Longo 10; Jim Carroll and Nick Rassas 4; Tom Kostelnik 3; Don Gmittcr, Ken I\'an, Jim L'>'ndi, Ken Maglicic, Aninas Vas>'s 1. 
PASSES INTERCEPTED 

PLAYER YARDS TD 
•o. 

Carey, Tony 8 121 0 Longo, Tom 4 07 0 Maglicic, Ken 1 25 0 Rassas, N'lck 1 23 0 Kostelnik, Tom I 11 0 I\-an, Ken „_„ I 7 0 Carroll, Jim _„.„ I 5 0 Duranko, Pete 1 1 0 
PASSING 

PLAYER Att. Comp. Int. Yards TD Pet. Huarte, John _ 205 114 II 2062 16 J56 Bonvechio, Alex 16 5 2 32 0 .313 McGinn, Dan — 1 1 0 II 0 1.000 
COACH JOHNNY DEE '48 Hungry During the Holidays 

BASKETBALL: * 
Victors in four of their first six starts, the Notre Dame basketball team made the first of four Christmas vaca­tion Stops Dec. 19, when they lost to St. John's Universit)- at the latter's field-house in Jamaica, Long Island, N.Y. 
After that the Irish, coached by first-year mentor Johnny Dee, were to meet Indiana, at Fort Wayne, Ind., Monday Dec. 21; Kentucky, at Louisville, Tue^ day, Dec. 29, and Bradley at Chicago Stadium, on New Year's Eve. 
Over the first six games the Notre Darners averaged nearly 100 points per game, and the combined opposition av­eraged in the eighties. Victories were achieved over Lewis, Ball State, Michi­gan State and Detroit (all at home), and the other loss came from Evans­ville (on the road). 0 
With such hea\y scoring, it follows that four of the Notre Dame regulars are averaging 19 points or better per game: Walt Sahm, senior forward-center, who has also been averaging a fraction better than 19 rebounds per contest; Jay Miller, senior for\vard; Larry Sheffield, senior guard; and Ron Reed, senior forward-guard. The fifth starting spot has been divided betweei^ Larry Jesewitz, senior center and JameF (Bucky) McGann, junior guard. (When Jesewitz is in the game, Sahm goes to forward and Reed to guard.) 
The Irish have fairly good overall , height among their top men. Sahm is • 6-10, Jesewitz 6-8, Reed 6-5, Miller 6-4, 5 McGann 6-3 and Sheffield 6-2. The , latter is the team's top play-maker and best dribbler. • 
N.D. 
287 _ 213 _ 111 ­90 _ 14 _ 1909 _ 472 _ 
4.04 _ 2105 _ 222 120 _ .541 . 18 _ 220 _ 4014 .. 30 _ 1097 _ 
36.6 ­225 .. 16 ... 
PLAYER Wolski, Bill Snow, Jack Eddy, Nick Ivan, Ken Farrell, Joe Huarte, John 
.Andrcotti, Pete .. 
AzzarOj Joe 
Conway, Denny Kantor, Joe Page, Alan Rassas, Xick Sheridan, Phil .\D TOTALS OPP. TOTALS 
TEAM STATISTICS 
POINTS SCORED _ FIRST DOWNS _ „_ _ by Rushing 
by Passing by Penalties . YARDS RUSHIXG . , TIMES CARRIED . Yards-pcr-tr>­YARDS P.JVSSLVG . ._ Passes Attempted „ , Passes Completed . Completion Pcrcentase . 
_ Passes Intercepted by _ _. Yards Int. Returned _ TOT.AL OFFE.NSE .„. PU.\TS Total Yards — Average — Yards Punts Returned 
FUMBLES Ball Lost 
SCORING 
OPP. _ 77 _ 130 _ 60 _ 63 
_ 687 _ 351 ._ 1.96 __ 1376 _ 230 _ 109 _ .474 _ 13 _ 180 _2063 _ 57 
9097 
39.1 lOI 
PASS RECEIVING 
„. 
_ 
TD  FG  P.-\T  T P  
II  0  0  66  
9  0  2-p  56  
0  2-p  44  
4  15  27  
0  0  24  
0  0  IB  
0  0  12  
1  7  10  
0  0  6  
0  0  6  
0  0  6  
0  0  6  
0  0  6  
26  287  
11 (2-p) 77  
(2-r)  


Snow, Jack Eddy, .Nick Sheridan, Phil — U'olski, Bill Farrell, Joe Kantor, Joe .Mcrkle, Bob _ . Conway, Denny Huarte, John Rassas, Nick 
PLAYER 
Snow, Jade . 
McGinn, Dan . 
NO .  YARDS  AVG.  T D  
. 60  1114  18.9  
. 16  352  22.0  
. 20  320  16.0  
130  16.3  
84  14.0  
43  21.5  
32  8.0  
15  15.0  
II  II.O  
4  2.0  

PUNTING 
NO. YARDS .WG. 29 1057 36.4 1 40 40.0 
PUNT RETURNS 

PLAYER  NO.  YARDS  .WG.  
Rassas, Nick .  _  15  153  10.2  
Conway, Denny  8  72  9.0  

Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 

Mtorlal Comiumt 
from your Alumni Secretary 
Mediation: The New Dynamic 
 HAVE wTitten before of the 

W
E new role of Notre Dame, under Father Hesburgh's leadership, in the life of our times — a role he calls "me­diation." 
Briefly, it is the logical application of the knowledge and experience that properly reside in our campuses to the immediate problems of the world out­
^d e that no longer permit the luxury' of time, trial and error. 
As Father Hesburgh predicted, and certainly we agreed, this new role is not one of detachment, of serenity, of unanimity, within or without the Notre Dame family. 
But — and this is our message for the current suggestion — the new role should command, from our alumni, intellectual study, intellectual respect, and the objectivity of reason. 
When you read this, the national 

;pection will be long past, and no good or evil can be done by citing the recent campaign as a case histor)' in the early stages of the new role. 
Students are increasingly curious in the field of politics, and increasingly vocal. A rather amazing amount of 
Deaths of alunin!, or their imme­diate relatives, come too often to our notice without any detail. We would appreciate each Club, through a re­sponsible member, sending us as soon as possible the news of any death of an alumnus or one of his immediate family, together with survivors, funer­al arrangements, or other pertinent details. 

time was spent by candidates of both parties on campuses where voters were in the minorit)'. 
Notre Dame cooperated, as did other institutions, in the belief that much of the hope of the world lies in the dedi­cation of informed young leadership to the political organization of our coun­try and the world. Early contacts stimu­late interest. 
\Villiam Miller, Class of 1935, Notre Dame, was a candidate for the vice-presidency of the United States. This was the highest honor accorded an 
Y -I- MG + F = 3Y 
This equation is not a product of Notre Dame's excellent Mathematics Department. Nor is it research data that is being used in the University's new Computing Center. It is, however, a formula that has helped the entire University. Its basic parts are you, 240 of America's leading companies and the Ford Foundation. 
The solution is as follows: Y represents your gift to Notre Dame. MG represents the 240 American companies that now have matching gift pro­grams. These companies match, usually dollar for dollar, your gift to the 
9 University. F equals the Ford Fotmdation. If your 1964 gift to the Univer­sity is ^100 and you work for a matching gift company, this company will add ^100 to that. The total amoimt of ^200 will then be matched fifty cents on die dollar by the Ford Foundation. The net result is a ^300 gift to the University. Of course, you must make the initial step in order to put this chain reaction into motion. Y not? 
For information regarding your company's plan, contact your Personnel Department or write Dennis F. Troester, Foundation Office, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
alumnus by a political party up to this time. He spoke in South Bend. He was a guest at the Purdue game. A separate non-Notre Dame national organization was formed to support him and Mr. Goldwater, and because Mr. Miller was a Notre Dame alumnus, oppor­tunities to enroll in this separate or­ganization were offered his classmates, our law alumni, and alumni in many local areas. (Note: None of these ap­proaches were made through lists fur­nished for the purpose by the Alumni Association or the University. The pol­icy exists, without exception, that alum­ni lists are used only for institutional and association purposes.) Many fac­ulty members and many students ex­pressed interest in Mr. Miller, as did many alumni. 
On another campus weekend, Mr. Humphrey, also a candidate for the vice-presidency, spoke on the campus, politically, in the rented facility of the Stepan Center, under non-University auspices. Justice Arthur Goldberg was on the campus to preside at the Law School's Moot Court Finals, and a fac­ulty group listened to Mr. Sargent Shriver, director of the Peace Corps and more recently of the President's Commission for Economic Opportunity. Faculty, students, and alumni were ac­tive in these programs, too. 
All of the above created live and controversial interest in the field of politics. 
Individual expression of University personnel in the areas of economic theory', of the civil rights programs, of literature and the theater, has uncov­ered a lively, and again sometimes con­troversial, interest. 
Student expression, because it enjoys the two great ingredients of intellectual enthusiasm, inexperience and imma­turity, is another source of frequently rousing a lively and controversial re­action. 
The ALUMNUS believes all this is an encouraging transition toward the me­diation predicted and encouraged by Father Hesburgh. I would simply urge you, as alumni, to bring to your in­terest, and your agreement or disagree­ment, the obiectivity of your reason, and the contribution of your good will. 
Notre Dame Atumnu!, Year End, 1964 
sound instruction as a means of identi­fying the students' needs and providii^ feedback on how the needs are being met It is essential to guidance as a 
WHAT IT TAKES, Part Two: 
Testing and Freshman Profiles 
By REV. JOSEPH W. HOFFMAN CSC '51 Acting Director of Admissions and Scholarships 
 SPECTER HAUNTS the CoUcgC 
NO 
candidate more than the En­trance Examination. It is the require­ment most feared by the student and the least understood by parents. Hence, the cold sweat which the student suf­fers on the morning of the test; and the modest skepticism of the parents on the value and validity of tests. 
The high-school senior can usually ^ve an honest appraisal of his ability and achievement in his course work. He knows his program and he kno\\'s his teachers. He may be strong in English, but weak in math; or, he may have good math grades, but chemistry is forever a problem to him. He is ac­quainted with the textbooks, and he has the experience of students who have gone before; but the admissions test is his own special purgator)', his own particular judgment on this earth. He may be confident in the face of these tests or he may be quaking; yet, the test is his own privately lived ex­perience and no one can take his place. The moment of truth is upon him. 
Parents on their part can only stand by, encouraging their sons; but not a little confused by percentiles and raw scores, means and medians, and the whole technical vocabulary of testing research. They know this young man as their son, and they challenge his low test scores as not being indicative of his genuine ability. No test has yet been devised that can capture that unique personality who is their son. Shall their son's future with its hopes and aspirations be determined by statistics? 
When the problem is so formulated no conscientious admissions officer \vill answer it direcdy. His hesitation ^vill be interpreted as hedging and the par­ents may conclude that, after all, the admissions officer really does not be­lieve in these tests. The president of the University, the faculty, or some anon)'mous group called the committee on admissions is really to blame, they say, for establishing these pretentious norms for acceptance. And they will be wrong. 
^^'hatever in the past may have given rise to the popular myth about admis­sions testing, no e.xperienced counselor or tester is making extravagant claims about tests today. They are keenly aware that they are dealing with the development of human beings, the edu­cation of young people, and that they are not hucksters for a new toothpaste, washday detergent or filter cigarette. It is the public at large and not college admissions officers who have been and are misguided and misdirected by popularizers who, like the poor in the gospel, are always with us. If, in this article, we are able to explode the myths, correct misconceptions and in­struct worried parents, our purpose will have been served. 
Is Testing A Menace To Education? 
Within the last two years a number of highly critical books and articles have been written on the menace of testing by the writers outside the test­ing profession. Three books stand out as especially devastating. The Tyranny Of Testing by Banesh Hoffmann and The Brain Watchers by Martin Gross appeared in 1962. Somewhat later Hillel Black published his They Shall Not Pass. None of them was a best seller, but they did attract an uncom­fortable amount of attention. 
At a regional meeting of the College Board in Cleveland, Ohio, last Feb­ruary, Dr. Henry S. Dyer, vice-presi­dent for College Board Programs, ad­dressed an answer to the critics. The remarks that follow are taken from that address. 
It is Dr. Dyer's contention that good measurement is essential to good educa­tion in all its aspects. It is essential to means of helping the student evaluate himself and his possibilities. It is es­sential to the administration of school systems as a means of locating soft spots in the curriculum and suggesting what should be done to strengthen them. It is essential to college admis­sions as a method of assessment th ^ cuts across the enormous diversity of educational experience out of which the candidates come. 

Most of the critics of testing come out of a humanbtic tradition that per­ceives testing as an impersonal process that fails to take account of the in­dividuality of the student If some or many students share this attitude, and I do not for a moment assert it as ^ fact, then the menace of testing is not a menace to the quality of instruction; or the quality of guidance; or the qualit)' of college selection or place­ment Testing for them is perceived as a threat to their self-esteem. 
Testing involves a comparison of one student against another and is, accord­ing to the proverb about comparisons, always odious. To abolish all testing in to pretend that no indiNadual dif­ferences in behavior exist Yet, suc4 differences bet%veen human beings do e.xbt whether we measure them or not 
FATHER HOFFMAN took over the Admissions Office when Father James Moron became ill last fall. Ordained in Rome in 1954, he received his doctor­ate in sacred theology from the Pontiff cal Gregorian University in 1957. At Notre Dame he has been a rector and assistant professor of theology. Most recently he served as assistant to the vice-president for student affairs. Fa­ther Charles McCarragher. 
6 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 

They are there. They are all-pervasive. JThey are inescapable. And they ac-FRESHMAN PROFILE 1964 "oimt for the .rich diversity of accom­Mean Standard SAT scores for the various intents 
plishment as well as the tension and frustration, the hope and despair that characterize any human society. 
Since most of the critics of testing focus most of their attacks on college admission testing, it is just here that they are most dangerous. For most of the time they do not know what they 
|are talking about and have no real grasp on the college admission picture or the role that testing can and does play in helping to cope with its com­plexities. 
They need to be reminded of a few facts. In September, 1963, well over a million students entered American col­leges for the first time. They came from about 25,000 secondary schools; 
Wfhey enrolled at some 2,000 colleges of many different kinds and levels, and most of them took some sort of test in the matriculation process. This is a big picture, especially for the high-school senior with college ambitions. He is faced with a multiple choice question with 2,000 possible answers and he must reduce the answer to a few. 
Ideally, this reduction process con­sists of two steps. First, the student 
Jmust make up his mind about himself and what he \\'ants out of life. He must gain a reasonably clear idea of his abilities and how they measure up with those of his fellow candidates for ad­mission. He must separate realistic goals from those which are based on child fantasies. He must check his financial resources to see how much he can aiTord and how much his family is able and willing to afford for him. 
•Vith self-understanding so hard to come by even in mature people, the ordinary adolescent will arrive at some­thing less than an adequate approxima­tion of who he is and where he is go­ing only with the help of wise parents and a competent counselor; thus only will he reduce the number of live op­tions to a dozen or so colleges. 
The second step is even tougher. 

-rfle must now narrow his choice of colleges to those that seem most likely to meet his needs, his aspirations, and his pocketbook. He reads the growing literature descriptive of colleges, liter­ature that goes out of date almost as fast as it is produced. He can read the college bulletins and gain only the vaguest notion about the quality of in­struction and the nature and level of the intellectual demands there. Even of matriculated freshmen: 
Science Arts and Letters Engineering . . . ' Business Administration 
Rank of matriculated freshmen 
Science Arts and Letters Engineering Business Administration ... 

should he meet the requirements of admission the meeting of the paper requirements is not necessarily a guar­antee of acceptance. 
The admissions officer has his own peculiar brand of multiple choice ques­tion. At Notre Dame he must select from over 4,000 applicants those 1,500 possible students who will enroll each year. If the test can furnish a student with one important clue in his search for a college suited to his abilities, the test can also provide the college admis­sions officer with a common measure which he can use to adjust his evalua­tions of the school records that come across his desk. College entrance tests cannot forecast with exact precision how a student will adjust to college. But they do measure something of what it takes to do the work of most col­leges, and anyone who forgets this fact or fails to make the best use of it is doing a disservice to candidates and colleges. 
Kinds Of Tests 
During his high-school years a young man will be subject to a multitude of different tests, each having its own par­ticular purpose and norms for scoring. There are psychological tests and in­telligence aptitude and achievement tests. For our purpose we shall discuss only those tests which are significant in the admissions decision at Notre Dame. 
Of rather widespread use in the Midwest and gaining acceptance else­where is the examination administered by the American College Testing pro­gram (ACT). This test is an indica­tion of academic aptitude. Since Notre Dame does not subscribe to the Ameri­can College Testing program, the ACT scores are not used. While a student may sit for this examination, his test 
Verbal Math 
 393 652  577 589  562 
640  507 
557 

 in their senior class: 
Upper  Fifth  Upper  Third  
 73%  another 15%  
 57%  another 20%  
 58%  anodier 20%  
.  34%  anodier 26%  

scores cannot substitute for the aptitude test administered fay the Collie Board. Hence, whatever other examinations the student takes he must sit for the College Board Scholastic Aptitude Test 
The Collie Entrance Examinaticm Board is a corporation which, in con­junction with the Educational Testing Service at Princeton, New Jersey, pre­pares and administers tests to colI^;e­bound high-school students. In general there art two types of tests: the Apti­tude and the Achievement There is a Preliminary Scholastic Aptitude Test (PSAT) which is given nationwide each year to high-school juniors. This t\vo-hour-long test is normally taken in October of the junior year. The pur­pose of testing juniors is to get another early indication of their college poten­tial. The test scores are reported to the high schools, which have already ac­cumulated other data on the student While Notre Dame would recommend that candidates sit for the PSAT early in their junior year, this datum is not part of the admissions decision. It has particular value for the high-school guidance counselor. 
During the senior year the student must take the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT). The SAT is a tyvo-part test of mathematics and verbal aptitudes. It is given in the morning and lasts three hours. The Achievement Tests are administered in the afternoon and comprise a maximum of three one-hour tests. These examinations cover the major subjects taught at the sec­ondary level in the United States. Un­like the SAT, the scores of Achieve­ment Tests do not enter into the ad­missions decision at Notre Dame, but are used rather for purposes of coun­seling and placement 
The SAT was first administered in 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
1926 and has been given to high-school students in each succeeding year. After continuous revision, correction and validation, tliese tests are given in nearly 3,000 testing centers throughout the country. Both the mathematics and the verbal portions of the SAT are scored between a low of 200 to a high of 800. Since these two portions of the test measure different tilings, it is best to keep them separate. A score of 550 on tlie Verbal Factor is known as the raw score. 
Frequently enough, however, the stu­dent will not refer to the raw score, but to his percentile ranking. Thus the score 550 on the verbal aptitude test might place an individual in die 85th percentile, meaning that 85% of the group scored at or below 550 on die verbal aptitude test. The percentile ranking, however, refers to die national average of scores on tlie SAT. The national average score is based on a sample representation of secondar)'­school seniors who entered college in any given year. Consequently tlie per­centile ranking is not relevant to the Notre Dame situation, where the aver­age scores will be higher dian the na­tional average. 
Although the SAT is the most im­portant test, there is also a special test for the academically talented. The Na­tional Merit Scholarship Qualif)'ing Test is conducted for die National Merit Scholarship Corporation by Science Research Associates. It is a three-hour test of educational develop­ment covering the fields of English, maUiematics, the social studies, the nat­ural sciences and word usage. From this batter)' of tests is calculated a selection score. While thk selection score is not part of the admissions data, quite fre­quently it corroborates and supports the high test scores on the SAT. Very talented students may score from 135 to 155. 
What Is The SAT? 
The critics seem to be on solid ground when they find fault with cer­tain s)'mbols such as the I-Q: they are dead wrong, however, when they at­tribute to the intelligence test the same sort of deficiencies they find in the I-Q. Any test is a collection of tasks that serves as a tool for comparing the per­formance of one individual with that of others. It is never a perfect tool, but it certainly carries no necessary assump­tions about the nature or genesis or development of human ability. The es­sential meaning of a test score resides 
8 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
in die tasks tiiat make up the test and in the relationships diat e.xist between the qualit)' of performance on these tasks in this situation and the qualit)­of performance on otiier tasks in other situations. The more we expand tiiis net\vork of relationships, the more we shall come to know about how cliildren learn and develop and thus be better able to help each one of them along the road to maturit)'. 
All of wliich is to say we need more and better testing, not less, if we are to cope imaginatively with tiie extra­ordinar)' problems in education that lie aliead of us. If the SAT is now a ver)' ser\'iceable tool in tiie hands of college admissions officers, it is because the test can indicate the relative abilit)' and pro.ximate preparations for furdier work of this individual in comparison with other students of his age and of similar background. The test scores can be good indications of success or failure at the college level. The test cannot, of course, measure perseverance, gen­erosit)', loyalty and social responsibilit)'. It was never intended to do so. 
Poor Testers 
There is no real problem of a poor tester when the candidate presents a weak high-scliool transcript. ^Ve may ver)' well be dealing with a student who is not yet prepared for college-level work. The real problem arises when a candidate presents a good high-school transcript, but scores relatively low on the SAT. There is no established rule in evaluating this student, but an ad­missions officer might do the following. He would first recommend that the candidate take the test again. If the scores are still low he would have to ascertain whetlier the student is in reality a poor tester or has been a vic­
tim of another bad day. Once the ad­missions officer has axcluded the poSj sibilit)' of e-xtemal influences during the test, tliere remain two further questions. If this student does test poorly, why has this fact become evident only now and not earlier in his high-school career? And secondly, presuming that we are dealing widi a poor tester, can the admissions officer allow this candi­date to enter upon a college program in which testing is an essential feature^ and in particular during die freshman year at Notre Dame where early and frequent testing is established policy? I repeat that there is no handy rule of thumb in dealing widi such cases, but each must be judged on its individual merits. In no instance can one ignore or disregard test results as being ir­relevant. 
( 

The Notre Dame Competition 
As we have stated in our previous article, admission to Notre Dame is on a competitive basis. Since we do not have absolute nonns ^rith regard to test scores on the SAT, selection is made of the most qualified candidates and then the average of their lest scores is computed. You will find ac­companying this article the average scores of die freshman class that matriculated in September, 1964, with^ in the separate intents of die freshman year. In order to further elucidate the level of competition existing within the present freshman class, wa submit also their standing in their senior class of high school. Both tliese sets of figures will vary from year to year and have shown marked improvement with the acceptance of each succeeding class. It remains to be seen what the level ot competition will be in the spring or 
1965. 
AID FOR COLLEGE ADMISSION 
If guidance is indicated in getting your son into college, an interesting new program has been organized — Educational Consultants, Inc., 2120 N.E. 2Ist St., Ft. Lauder­dale, Fla. 
Willard Moss, long active in the Notre Dame Club of Ft. Lauderdale, is one of the organizers. 
The School and College Admissions Center of the organization devotes full time to. finding the best school for the student. Mr. Moss points out that the largest factor of freshman failure is because of a failure to select the proper college or university. 
In vieiv of the admissions problem in private education, including Notre Dame, where limited enrollment and admissions standards combine to turn away many good boys each year, many parents vnW welcome the professional contribution of the new organization. 
Details on the nature of the services, costs, etc, can be secured by writing to Willard Moss at the above address. 
One feature of this service is that in the case of the placement of a student in an appropriate college through Educational Consultants, a gift will be made by the organization to the University of Notre Dame. Admission to college or university is guaranteed or fees are refunded. 
IN MeMORiAM JobN p. keNNet>y 
pARALLeL 
IN bisTORy 
By LAWRENCE J. CULLINEY '28 

CBr ONG AGO at the dawn of a magnificent T-' centur>', a tall, strong youth pursued the manly game of sword and lance. Skilled therein, he became the undefeated victor of five hundred mounted encounters, the champion knight of Christendom. Brave in vcar, he unhorsed the doughty Richard of the Lion Heart and rebuked that ingrate who pursued his defeated and dying father, the king. Defending England from the in­\*ader, he had ardor for battle, a bare­headed warrior relieving the siege at Lin­
'^oln. -•^s regent for a young king he became head of state. -Amid the violence of tourna­ment and war, he remained true to his God, devoted to his young and beautiful wife, and was just and moderate. Loyalty was hi.s hallmark. His death on May 14, 1219, plunged the people of his country* into the deepest grief, and even England's foe, Philip .Augustus, mourned and acclaimed the loy­alty of the deceased knight. Bishops and barons, great men and common followed the funeral train to London: all knew he had saved England. Before his bier the archbishop proclaimed him the best knight 
,^f all the world. This warrior-leader was "Villiam the Marshal, First Earl of Pem­broke, the greatest fighting man of the cen­tury—perhaps of any century—but he was known as The Good Knight. 
I
N OUR TIME seven centuries later emerged such a man. A tall, slim youth, serious student and ardent athlete prepared for tasks that lay ahead. Soon came World War II and a nation knew the wounded and heroic skipper of PT 109. Later his battles were in the field of politics, and issues and eloquence were his sword and lance. In spirited campaigns he mounted ever higher to his goal. From interlude induced by injury, a legacy from the South Pacific, came literary triumph; his courage knew no pause, for it ^vas his badge. Against great odds he achieved the highest office in the land, be­came the thirty-fifth and youngest President of the United States. His program ^vas The New Frontier which charted a course of national strength and pointed to tomor­rows of peace and justice, and freedom from want and oppression. Then, in the summer of his life, on November 22, 1963, came a monstrous deed: a craven's bullet hushed a brilliant mind and stilled a gallant heart. Shocked as never before in this cen­tury, his nation grieved and a world mourned. Even the Soviet leader, whom he bested at an hour of national peril and at the risk of nuclear war, sent condolence for the martyred Statesman of the West. Monarchs and heads of state, high officials of his nation and the great of other lands marched on foot in the warrior-hero's funeral procession: and the common people watched and wept. Richard Cardinal Gushing, Arch­bishop of Boston, at graveside bade farewell to a wonderful man. Withal, the greatest world leader of his time was one true to his God, devoted to his wife and family, lo^ng his countr)- which gave him its trust; he, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, will be remem­bered as The Good President. 
KENNEDY MEMORIAL Scholarships at ND to promote the late President's cause of racial justice were donated to the University hy Mr. and Mrs. John Btmdschuh of New York. Here Btmdschuh (left) and Fr. Hesburgh join Speaker of the US House of Representatives John McCormack (center) in congratulating the first recipients, who had already been enrolled as ND students: Jacques Yates (2nd from left), a sophomore from Waukegan, HI.; and Leon J. Roos, a senior from Houston, Tex. Rep. McCormack (D-Mass.), a former colleague of President Kennedy, made the scholarship presentation on behalf of the Bundschuh family and the University. 
MeMORiAL 
MASS 

Some 1,500 persons jammed the Ca­thedral of St. Matthew in Washington for a low memorial Mass for President John 
F. Kennedy. The funeral sen°ice for the President was held in the same church fol­lowing his assassination a year ago. 
Father John J. Cavanaugh CSC, former president of Notre Dame and a friend of the Kennedy family, offered the Mass and preached the sermon. The Mass was re­quested by the Kennedy family. Senator-elect Robert F. Kennedy of New York with his wife and their son Robert Jr., S.irgent Shriver and his daughter Maria attended. .Also present were Chief Justice Earl War­ren, members of the U.S. Supreme Court, members of President Johnson's cabinet and members of the diplomatic corps. 
In his sermon Father Cavanaugh said of President Kennedy: "He walked among the noblest and he walked among the workers in the fields and factories, and he walked with reIa.\ation and joy, and they smiled back at him. He spoke and lived for peace, yet he knew that armaments and trained fight forces made his voice carry and carry convincingly...." 
"He spoke of religious poverty not as a new political slogan hut .. . as a sacred cause that hb and no other man's conscience can turn from. He spoke of going on with racial justice as if everyone who had suf­fered from racial injustice was one of his anguishes and had entered into his flesh and blood." 
"This morning's rededication" to him. Father Cavanaugh concluded, "has a very important meaning. It is the . . . urge to get on with the tasks, with good consciences our only reward, with history as our jn^c " 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
History repeats in a twenty-year, two-generation 
DOUBLE PLAY: COSTIN TO KLIER 
JIM COSTIN SR., in 1944, presents a watch to Leo Klier '46 (then a Navy V-12 officer candidate) as a member of the Pic Magazine All-America college basketball team. Costin was sports editor of the former South Bend Nens-Tinies in the 30's and of the South Bend Tribune from 1942 until his death in May, 1949. Leo, a 293-point forward from Washington, Ind., had just broken John Moir's all-time ND scoring record under Coach Moose Krausc. 
jm COSTIN JR., in 1964, presents a trophy to Marianne Klier, 16-year-oId girls' golf champ of Fort Wayne, Ind., who shot a three-xmder-par (for women) 76 to win this year's municipal tourney. Young Jim keeps abreast of the Irish as sports wTiter for the Fort Wayne News-Sentinel and the local edition of the Sunday Visitor. Alariannc is one of nine children of Leo, late of Indianapolis, now with Fort Wayne's Standard Oil. 

10 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
^ t Least in the Peace Corps, WE'RE NUMBER ONE/ 
Campanini Fallon Gallagher Luca Ruppc Switzer 
Mr. and \frs. Slattery Tiemey AVhelan Mr. & Mn. Simoni 
Toppled from primacy to a humble third place in national James .-\. Foley '58 and his wife .•\nne of Sioux Falls, S.D., are standings at the end of the college football season, Notre Dame still also with the California contingent in Ethiopia. has undisputed claim to "number one" among .•\merican colleges 
Roger Vincent Ruppe '64 of South Bend is with Mike Luea in in another and perhaps more important area. According to US the Ecuador project. 
Peace Corps officials, the University has contributed more volunteers Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Simoni '63 of Scotia, N.Y., are also to the international aid program than any other institution. Besides now with Notre Dame's credit-union-and-cooperative team in Chile. 
continuing to train volunteers for the first project approved by Washington, the Chilean Peace Corps, Notre Dame has contributed Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Slattery '64 (Susan) of Hartford, volunteers to nearly every other Peace Corps unit operating around Conn., have also joined the huge Ethiopian project. the world. Thomas Walsh Switzer '64 of Denver, Colo., trained at the 
,,^ Among recent grads (and wives) joining Notre Dame Peace U. of North Carolina with 40 other public health workers before ^Corpsmen now numbering in the hundreds are the following: leaving for the new African nation of Malawi. Thomas A. Campanini '61 of Reynolds\nIle, Pa., is among 270 
Paul E. Tiemey '64 of Chappaqua, N.Y., was another recent volunteers who recently left for Ethiopia after training at the ND trainee with the Chilean unit. 
U. of California. 
James Patrick Walsh Jr. '64 of Hicksville, N.Y., trained at the William Patrick Fallon '64 of Milwaukee, Wis., was in the U. of Hawaii before going to Thailand as a teacher. 
latest ND unit to join nearly 200 volunteers now operating in Chile. Daniel Gallagher '64 of Mason City, Iowa, joined 71 other 
.\nd Thomas P. (Pat) Whelan '64 of Kearney, Neb., is another architects and engineers in Tunisia after training at the U. of Utah. 
who trained at ND for the Chilean Peace Corps. Kelly Christian Kammerer '63 of Whitestone, N.Y., has already Many of the Notre Dame volunteers have had training as stu­spent a year in Colombia with other U. of New Mexico trainees. dents with the CIL.A projects in Latin America, and thus the Michael John Luea '64 of Flint, Mich., trained at the U. of University stands a good chance of continuing as "number one" Missouri with 42 other volunteers before leaving for Ecuador. in the Peace Corps. 
Surgeon is a 25-Year AlUAmerican 
John C. Kelleher MD, named by Sports Illustrated magazine to its Silver Jubilee All­.America, first won fame ^vith his toe but has won more enduring notice with his work on thumbs and ears as a plastic surgeon in Toledo, Ohio. 
His father, a Rockne teammate in 1912-14, coached football at Kenyon College while 
playing pro football with the Massilon Tiger-Cats under the pseudonym "Finnegan." One 
of John's most vi^d memories is attending Rock's funeral with his dad. 
A 145-pound blocking back from Lorain, O., John didn't make the ND varsity until his senior year as a quarterback and kicker, but his field goal won the 1939 Purdue game 3-0 for the 300th Irish victory, and his extra point was the margin of a 20-19 win over SMU. He was the first Monogrammer's son to win his own letters. 
A 1940 honor grad in biolog>-, he won multiple honors at Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, and interned at Kings County Hospital, Brooklyn, before entering the Army. Returning after the ivar for residency in plastic and reconstructive surgery under famed Dr. Walter Coakley, he set up practice in Toledo and married Rose Mary O'Donnell of Lorain. They're the parents of nine children, four girls and five boys, of whom the oldest, John, is a soph at ND. 
Dr. Kelleher is director of plastic surgery at two Toledo hospitals, an authority on thumb reconstruction and developer of a unique treatment for cauliflower cars. Active in several surgical societies, he's president of the five-state Ohio Valley Assn. of Plastic & Reconstructive Surgeons; author of numerous papers on reconstructive techniques, particularly his thumb and ear processes; consultant to the Ohio State Crippled Children's Society and 
DR. JOHN a KELLEHER '40 team physician for Toledo's St. Francis DeSales High. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
 HIS recent move to Berks County, Pennsyl\-ania (Alburtis, in the Dutch 

farming countr>- nortliwest of Philadelphia).  
John Lochtefeld left behind in Erie, Pa.,  
some reminders of his versatile art. Recent  
liturgical works include mosaic stations of  
the cross for the Chapel of Our Lady of  
Mercy, Mercyhurst Prep School, as well as  
designs for the stained-glass windows fab­ 
ricated in France last summer.  
Winning the Emiie Jacques Gold Medal  
for fine arts at XD, John spent two years  
in the Anny and earned his MFA at the  
U. of Hawaii, studying with muralist Jean  
Chariot. Since 1958 he has completed 11  
major murals in oil, fresco and mosaic.  
Three one-man shows include an exhibit of  
64 prints, drawings, sculptures and paintings  
last spring at the Erie .•\rt Center. A par­ 
ticipant in national religious art shows in  
Birmingham, Mich., Rochester, X.Y., and  
the U. of Illinois, John won the Bishop  
Gannon .Award for Liturgical An in 1962.  
In 1956 John married Judith Robinson  
of Pontiac, Mich., and they have five chil­ 
dren ranging in age from 1 to 7. In recent  
years he has been .chairman of Mercyhurst  LOCHTEFELD tours a gallery exhibit with one-year-old Thomas,  whose  
College's national graphics c^diibition, a Boy  brothers and sisters are James, Peter, Elizabeth and Catherine.  
Scout leader and ofiicer of the N'D Club of  
Eric.  
Alumni in Art ­ 
John Lochtefeld, ^j^^ Muralist -­'  
FRIAR (left), large wood- 
carved heady is flanked by two  
stone "Heads from an Island"  
at this year's one-man show  
in Erie.  
ECCEHOMO (right) portrays  
Christ in woodcut with strong  
religious feeling in its  
primitive Gothic distortion.  
ASSATIGUE (below), a  
louche on silk screen, blends  
a powerful expressionism with  
facile draftsmanship.  

12 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
^otre 'Dame Mooks 

I WAS DANCIXG 6)'Edwin O'Connor '39 (.Atlantic Monthly Press, Little, Brown & Co., New York, Toronto), 242 pp., §4.75. 
Edwin O'Connor's fifth book, like The Oracle, Beniy, The Last Hurrah (At­lantic Prize, 1955) and The Edge of Sad­ness (Pulitzer Prize, 1961), puts into play another group of principally comic inven­tions around a dominant central character. Wily politician Frank Skeffington and de­
vious landlord Charlie Carmody have been joined in the O'Connor gallcrj- of unfor­gettable characters by an irrepressible \-audevillian named Waltzing Daniel Con­sidinc. 
Daniel, a spr)' old song-and-dance man, has spent his life in single-minded pursuit of the spotlight and his own way. His own way in retirement is to spend the rest of his days with his son, whom he hasn't seen in 20 years, and the total stranger to whom his son is married. The young couple, wel­
0'oming him in their home as a temporary guest, discover too late that he has no in­tention of leaving. The conflict develops as a battle of wills and wits between youth and age, the young people determined to move Daniel to a rest home and he equally determined to stay. 
The galler>- includes "witch doctor" Billy Ryan, the strange Father Fecley and the mournful, devoted Gottlieb among Daniel's hilarious cronies. Without the high comedy of The Last Hurrah or the pensivcness of The Edge of Sadness, this book is lighter in tone and treatment but preser\'es enough 
^ f the poignancy of its predecessors to have ^een accepted in dramatic adaptation for production this season on Broadway. 
O'Connor, a native of Providence, R.I., spent his early years in radio and broke into print by satirizing that industr>- after World War 11 sen'icc in the Coast Guard. 
Married last year, he now lives on Boston's 
Beacon Hill. 
TH E CATHOLIC CA.MPUS (Macmillan, New 
York. 204 pp. $3.95) by Edward IVakin. 
The Univeisity is one of a handful of 

institutions cited as representing the com­plete spectrum of -•American Catholic higher education by Mr. Wakin of the Fordham communication arts department. In "The Will to Win" (pp. 33-68) Notre Dame is pictured in great detail as perhaps the fore­most and fastest rising school in the U.S. 
DISCIPLINE CO.VCEPTS I.V EDUCATIO.V (St. Paul Editions, Boston, 343 pp., $5.00) by Very Rev. Anthony A/. Brown '43. 
President of Carroll College, Helena, Mont., Fr. Brown has written what is prob­ably the most comprehensive sur\-ey ever undertaken on attitudes and methods of controlling behavior in school. He feels that discipline in education has become one of the major concerns of our era and that more time should be spent on this subject in educational me£hodo!og>' classes. 
.-Mlernately treated are the philosophical and psychological backgrounds of Catholic and public school disciplinar}- methods and the concepts set forth by four representative experts in the field of guidance. There are tables showing the results of an opinion sur\ey of Catholic educators, as well as a complete bibliography. 
EDUCATIO.V AND POLITICAL POWER (Center for .Applied Research in Education, New York, 113 pp.) by Rev. John E. U^nlsh CSC '45. 
Former head of the education department and now a vice-president of the University, Fr. Walsh has added an unusual but par­ticularly appropriate volume to the Librar\' of Education in progress. George Shuster writes in the foreword, "This book deals with one of the most important and diffi­cult of educational problems." 
PORTFOLIO ON PHILANTHROPY 
A Guide to planned philanthropy 
— modest or considerable — to serve you, your family, and one of America's great educational institutions. 
Write to: 
Asst. Dir. Deferred Giving UND Foundation 

DR. JOHN C. KELLEHER '40 and wife Rose Mary arc shown with their nine children before John was named to Sports Illustrated's Silver Jubilee All-America. The Layden-era kicking ace is now a Toledo plastic surgeon. (See story on page II.) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
BY JAMES P. HARNISCH 
Secretary 
Slfitii 
Noire Dame Class of 1965 
theSttd^^^ 

1964-65: THE TRADITIONAL AND NEW 
A CADEMic AXD athletic innovations as •* * well as a change in the physical fea­tures of the campus greeted the record September influx of 6982 students. The normal myriad of fall activities was made even more complex by the expansion and addition of new organizations such as the Senior Advisor>- Program, which is designed to help orient and assist freshmen in adapt­ing to Notre Dame life. 
ACADEMIC HONOR CODE 
A referendum proposing the adoption of an academic honor system was passed last spring by a two-thirds majority vote of the students. With the support of the adminis­tration and facult}' the undergraduate Aca­demic Honor Code became a realit>- this semester. The student's integrit>- and re­sponsibilitj', as recognized by the Honor Code, are founded upon two principles: "(1) That as a memlaer of the academic community, a student will be responsible for his own work, and (2) he will expect the same academic honesty of his fellow students." A written pledge demanding a student's adherence to the code is not re­quired. 
Jurisdiction of the code is applicable to exams of all types, classwork, papers, and reports. A Student Honor Council consisting of t»venty-five members representing each of the colleges, three upper classes, and stu­dent body at large will have complete authority to deal with any violations. 
.Although only the academic aspect is affected by the system, it is the University's hope that the honest>' and rectitude fos­tered in the Notre Dame man's scholastic endeavors will pervade and reflect in his 
moral character. The Honor Code in 
essence is a challenge by the Academic 
Council, faculty, and administration for the 
students to be cognizant of the need for 
probity in our modem world and for them 
to be perspicacious enough to maintain 
their honesty and integrity under society's 
pressures. 
It is still too early to analyze and de­termine the efi^ectiveness of our honor sys­tem, but it is interesting to note the stu­dents' reaction to it. To many the change­over was almost unnoticeable, and to almost all of us the pronsions of the code seem quite reasonable and acceptable. The ac­ceptance of an honor system has not pro­duced any apparent changes in the indi­vidual, and yet there is a feeling of develop­ment— self-development — which was per­haps latent. This inner strengthening of character is not something immediately recognizable but rather will be manifest gradually in the Notre Dame man's life. 
STUDENT TRIP 
One of the greatest airlifts of our time was achieved last October 9 when six planes of enthusiastic and victor>--hungry Irish left South Bend bound for Denver, the home of the Falcons. Buses husded the 650 stu­dent-trippers from the airfield to the Albany Hotel in downtown Denver. A pre-game victor)' dance was held that evening with a more than ample number of girls showing up from the surrounding colleges to help greet the Irish. The Denver Aliunni really did a grand job in planning the N-arious actittties and functions for the visiting stu­dents and should be commended for their remarkable organization. It would be diffi­
cult to conceive of a successful student trip 
without the help and cooperation extended' 
to us by them. 
The trippers traveled the sixty miles to the Air Force -Academy en masse via bus. The high altitude did not alfect their lungs, for the small contingent of 650 students displayed their N.D. spirit in fine stj'le by cheering and outshouting some 2,000 .Air Force cadets. .An article in a Sunday morn­ing Denver newspaper stated: "There is no such thing as an away game for Notre Dame; the Irish bring their fans with them and pick more up whenever they play." f 
With victor)' achieved the ecstatic trip­pers headed back for a night of celebra­tion in Denver. The flights back to the golden Dome were spaced throughout Sun­day afternoon with the last plane touching down by midnight. Favorable comments on the weekend were numerous. It might be interesting to note that the total budget of the trip was over $50,000 with a base price of $78 per tripper. 

Each away football game weekend there has been a mass exodus of spirited Irish determined to follow their team to victory. Excursions such as the Senior Trip to Wis^. consin and club-sponsored trips to Phila" delphia and California have been indicative of this great spirit. And yet there is at the same time an active concentration on scholastic achievement, as can be evidenced by the daily evening migration of students to the Memorial Librar>'. 
The Kellogg Educational Center and Lewis Hall may have changed the physical features of the campus, but the traditional fall activities, spirit, and long lunch lines are still with us. 
REQUIEM MASS for Sophomore Michael M. Leahy at Salzburg, Austria, was celebrated by Rev. Thomas J. Engleton CSC and attended by fellow students in September. Michael, son of Mr. and Mrs. Morris Leahy '31 of Orinda, Calif., was killed in a motor scooter accident in Milan, Italy, on Sept. 8. He was one of 32 ND students who sailed in August for a year of study in Austria under a new special program of the University. Fr. Engleton is director of the foreign study program and joined Prof. Loub Hasley on the American faculty. First destination was Salzburg, where an intensive German language training program was to precede enrollment in the University of Innsbruck in October. Michael, a freshman at the University last year, had been on a sight-seeing trip through Italy and was returning to Austria for study at the time of his accident. 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End, 1964­

NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL 
t by Thomas L. ShafFer L "61 
Enrollment 
Two hundred students enrolled in the Law School in September — 99 of them in the first-year class. Seventy-four have Notre Dame degrees, 55 are married and 23 are veterans. The student body ranges in age from 20 to 50, comes from 27 states, plus Canada and Mexico, and includes gradu­ates of 77 different colleges and universities. 
Notre Dame Law Association 

•» Nineteen officers and directors of the 
Association attended a directors' meeting October 23 and 24. Sessions were held both days. Father Philip Moore, C.S.C, offered Mass for the Association Saturday morning; this was followed by a breakfast. The As­sociation, under the direction of President James M. Wetzel of Chicago, is undertak­ing a $125,000 scholarship drive and the publication of a new directory of members. 
Judges Kiley and Swygert 

The Notre Dame Law .Association spon­sored a dinner in Chicago on September 28 to honor Judges Roger Kiley and Luther 
M. Swygert, both alumni of the Law School and members of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. Judge Kiley is also a member of the Law Ad­visory Council, and Judge Swygert is Adjunct Professor of Law in the practice court program. Chief Judge John S. Has­tings of the Court of .Appeals was guest speaker for the occasion, which was at­tended by 85 alumni and friends of the Law School; Professor Thomas Broden pre­

f^ented plaques to the guests of honor. 
Moot Court 
James J. Leonard, Jr., a third-year stu­dent from Prairie Village, Kansas, was named winner of the final round of the Moot Court competition, held October 10 in the Memorial Library auditorium. Sec­ond place went to John H. Martin of Sacramento, California. Mr. Leonard is a graduate of Brown University; Mr. Martin graduated from the University of Notre Dame. Other competitors were Henry J. 
Boitel, Brooklyn, New York, and Kevin Carey, Yakima, Washington. The arguments were heard by Mr. Justice Arthur J. Gold­berg of the Supreme Court of the United States; Judge Carl McGowan of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit; and Judge William J. Campbell of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The case, now on the Supreme Court's docket, involved an employer's right to terminate his busi­ness during a labor dispute. 
Practice Court 
The fall term of the Practice Court be­gan in September and will be concluded in March. Each member of the third-year class \vill participate in a full-dress jury trial before Judge Luther M. Swygert and a jury drawn from the Law School's first-year class and the student body of St. Mary's College. Professor Edward Barrett directs the program and acts as pro-tem judge on motions and voir dire sessions. 
Elective Seminar 
The separate course in federal estate and gift taxation has now been absorbed into the third-year estate planning course. This adjustment left two semester hours in the final semester for an elective seminar. Sev­eral members of the faculty plan to offer courses in various areas of specialization which will afford all members of the third-year class an opportunity for close, detailed research under careful direction. The pro­gram will replace the third-year research paper requirement. 
Gray's Inn 
Gray's Inn began its season in October with a visit from Thomas Ford of the New York Bar, who discussed with students the problems and opportunities of law practice in New York City. Mr. Ford is a partner in Shearman & Sterling, a firm which has recently employed two graduates as asso­ciates — Paul B. Coffey, '58, 61L, and Thomas Joyce, '60, '63L. 

The editorial board of the Looijicr launched plans for the formation of a Notre Dame Lawyer Alumni Auociation with a formation meeting at the Law School on October 23 and 24-. Recent graduates who were Lawyer staff memben were invited to the meeting, which in­cluded group attendance at the Notre Dame-Stanford game. The Association will aim at increased assistance from the law review's alumni in obtaining and preparing lead articles and advising student editors on content and circulation of the review. 
Low Advisory Coundi 

Members of the Law Advisory Council met at the Law School in October. They held a session with the editorial board of the Notre Dame Lawyer and heard stu­dent editors explain their procedures and problems. The members also had break­fast with the third-year class. 
Council members at the meeting in­cluded Norman J. Barry, Chicago; Judge Hugh C. Boyle, Pittsburgh; John E. Cas­sidy, Peoria; Judge Charles S. Desmond, Buffalo; John W. Doi^n, Chicago; Oscar John Dorwin, New York City; Paul F. Hellmuth, Boston; John T. Higgins, De­troit; Henry M. Hogan, Birmingham, Mich.; H. Clay Johnston, New York City; Judge Roger J. Kiley, Chicago; J. W. Mul­lin, Jr., Los Angeles; Judge Walter V. Schaefer, Chicago; Edmtmd A. Stephan, Chicago; and A. Harold Weber, South Bend. 
Congratulations 

George A. Pelletier, Jr., '61, '62L, has been appointed an instructor in the Inter­national and Comparative la w Division of the Army Judge Advocate General's School, Charlottesville, Va, He is the author of a lead article which appeared last year in the Lawyer on insurance retaliatory laws. 
NAMES OF SERVICE DEAD 
SINCE W.W.n REQUESTED 
FOR NEW WAR MEMORIAL 
A permanent war memorial hoooiing all alumni who have died 'Yor God, Coimtry and Notre Dame" is being planned to replace the temporaiy wooden plaques listing those killed in World War II which hing stood in the foyer of Sacred Heart Chwch. 
The new memorial will hopefully con­tain the names ot all Notre Dame men who have died in the Korean action and "Cold War" as weU as the Second World War. 
While the Alumni Office records are considered ia be compete tat the World War n Honor RoD, we would like to corroborate our listings since that time. 
Classmates, relatives and friends of alumni who have died on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces once V-J Day are asked to send name, class and date of death to the Ahunni Oflke, Bos SS5, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Notre Dame Alnmnus, Year End, 1964 
own wild house, lost because a great love 
had left them and they were lonely. The bones of Father Deseille are in the 
cr>'pt of the campus church. Ne.\t to him 

MAN and the 
MOMENT 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 
Men of Past and Present: Fathers DeSeille and Petit 
T
HE STORY of Taiher Dcsfille reads like a short sion*. It is much too short a story for a man who was a licro of the Wilderness. He was a mild man, ven­much unlike Father Badin. who, according to reports, was a "torrential personality." We have no information on the early years of Father Dcseille nor of the exact time he came to Xotrc Dame. It is known that he traveled hundreds of miles in evcr>* direc­tion to minister to the Indians. In 1832 he had joined Father Badin in Pokagon's village. This village was about seven miles from Notre Dame. An old manuscript, re­ferring to Father Deseille, says: "The time of his min:str>* here ^vas somewhere between the years 1830 and 18-10." This is enough to give us some idea of the date. 
A Heroic Death 
U is interesting to note that Father De­seille died as a young priest. He was less than forty years of age. It is also a point of interest to note that when Father De­seille got sick two messengers were sent to get a priest — one to Logansport and one to Chicago. "The two messengers returned three days afterwards, without a priest, as both priests were too sick to travel such a distance." In those days the ravages of a hard life ended many a career very early. 
\ Lost People 
Most people who come to Notre Dame visit the Log Chapel. Ghosts of yesterday, heroes of yester\*ear arc in the silence of the flickering candles before the altar. On the north wall is a painting of the dying Father DesciUe. The storj- has been told many times of how this priest prepared himself for death. He asked to be carried from his sickbed to the altar. There he showed his great faith by giving himself the Blessed Sacrament as his final taste of food for a long journey. In less than an hour he was dead. When the Indians came to visit their dead priest, they remembered his last words to them: "I have a great journey to make." So there they stood, those people of the prairie who had learned to pray from the now stilled lips of their padre. They were a lost people in their 

LIBRARY ASSN., headed by Fr. O'Donnell, is fi^aicful for fifty books about Canada presented to the University by the Canadian government. Here FT. Hesburgh examines the books with Senator John J. Connolly, government leader in the Canadian Senate, who made the presentation; and C. F. Wilson, Canadian consul general in Chicago. Con­nolly, a former faculty member, represented Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson, who received an honorary degree from Notre Dame in 1963. In a statement, Pearson declared: "It is my sincere hope that this gift of books will stimulate inter­est in the relation between our countries and in so doing will help strengthen the unique partnership that our two nations are so fortunate to share." 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
are tlie mortal remains of a Father Ben­jamin Petit. Father Petit should be known and remembered as one of the first who dared to be coimtcd with a minority group. 
The Great Journey 
Many of the white people were hungiy for land. They could sec no reason \v\^ they should go far west when it would br easier to get the government to move the Indians. The poverty of the Indians, their simplicity and ignorance, their lack of union made them easy victims for the grow­ing greed of the white people. It was easy to stir up trouble, then point to the Indians as the cause. The United States Govern­ment, at least it seems so, wanted to be fair but was goaded into action that would force the Indians to reser\ations farther west. A great many early settlers who tried to avoid bloodshed and who wanted to se" some semblance of justice thought the best plan was to niovc the Indians and have the government take care of them. They wanted this socialism for others so that they could claim the countn- for themselves. Between 1820 and 1830 conferences and treaties were the order of the day. Be­tween 1830 and 1840 the real-estate mer­chants were on the move. .-Vn order was given that the Indians of Indiana sh()uld be transferred beyond the Mississippi. In early September of 1838 the forced march to the unhappy hunting grounds was begun. 
General John Tipton was most anxiouP to avoid cruelty and needless fighting. He begged the young priest who was ordained less than a year and who had come to Notre Dame to take the place of Father Deseille to make the long journey with the Indians. But Bishop Gabriel Brute needed this young missionary* in northern Indiana. 
*Train of Terror* 
It was only when he heard of the sick^ ness and death and the wretched condition of the forced march that the Bishop granted permission to Father Petit to leave Notre Dame and to catch up with his beloved Indians, At Danville, Illinois, he met the miserable "red train of terror." Two months later, on November 4. they reached the banks of the Osage River. Father Petit turned his charges over to a Jesuit priest, Father Hoeken. Then Father Petit started on the long road home. 
-Already sick and weak he got as far a ^ St. Louis. There, even with great care from Jesuits,, he died. It was another great life gone to eternity from the shores of Notre Dame. 
Almost twenty years later, in 1857, Father Sorin journeyed to St. Louis to bring back the body of Father Petit. Father Sorin knew then, as we know now. that these men of the past are part of the present and forever a part of Notre Dame. 
T. J. O'Dox.N-ELL, C.S.C. 
TEE-OFF by Jack Purdy is admiringly obscr^'ed by the rest of his foursome, 

•^ (from left) Club Chaplain Msgr. Daniel 
' Cunningham, Coach Ara Parseghian and Jack Barry, at the outset of 
and Sports Night Dinner 
CLUBHOUSE BOUND (above) after playing a gruelling 18 
holes in their golf cart at Elnihurst Country Club, Lou 
Zcfran (left) and Dick Cook joined the more than 323 Irish 
(at right) gathered for a sparkling dinner program. 
CHAMP TOM WALSH, in the picture to the right, accepts the ^ Fred Snite Jr. Memorial Trophy from Col. Frederick B. Snitc, host 
• at the Elmhurst Club, who donated the trophy to com­
memorate his famed son. Young Fred spent many years in an iron lung after he was stricken by polio as a student. 
COACH JOHN DEE (at mike, left) capped a stellar head table which included (seated, I.-r.) Bert Metzger, Fr. John E, Walsh, Col, Snite (partially hidden), Alumni President Phil Facccnda, Club President Paul Fullmer, Toastmaster John Camichael, Coach Ara Parseghian, Athletic Director Ed Krausc. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
Directory of Clubs and Their President? 
North Florida—Albert H. Kessing, 
ALABAMA 

'40, 7245 Colignv Rd., Jacksonville, John A. O'Brien, Jr., '51, 1465 Linda Fla. 
Vista Dr., Regent Fore^t, Birming-

Pidm Beach County—Daniel Do«-ney, 
haiD, Ala. 

Jr., '44, Suite 615. Harvey BIdg., West Palm Bpacli, Fla. 
ALASKA 

Pensacota—John L. McCormack, '49, 
P.O. Box 8, Pensacola, Fla. 
John S. Hdlenthal, '35. Bo> 941, Anchorage, Alaska. 

St. Petersbure-Tampa — Mark E. .Nfooncy, '26, 4325 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
ARIZONA 
Phoenix—Thomas A. Henmgaa, Jr., '42, 5729 E., Joshua Tree Lti., 

GEORGIA 
Scottsdale, Ariz. rucron—Timothy R. King, *37, 5651 ! 

Atlanta — Richard G. Murphy, *44, £. Scarlett, Tucson, Anz. 
677 Ponce de Leon Ave,. X.E., Atlanta, Ga. 
ARKANSAS 

Fort Sm:(*—James A. Gilker. '48, 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith. HAWAII Ark. 
Harvey Lung, '53. 1605 Ulueo St., 
Little Rock—^Jamcs E. Madigan, '43, Kailua. Oahu, Hawaii. 4617 Crcstwood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA IDAHO 
Bakersfield—Richard L. Bamelt. '56. Francis H. Hicks, '49, 1180 Phclp< 630 Golden State Hwy., BakersEeld, Circle, Mountain Home, Idaho. Calif. 
Idaho Falls — James M. Brady, '29, C«i»ror—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secre­P.O. Box 2148. Idaho Falls. Idaho. 
tary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Calif. Los Angtles—Robert L. Gervais, '55, 

ILLINOIS 
3219 Rosewood Ave., Los Angeles 66, Calif. Aurora — John G. Bryan, '54, 516 Galena Blvd., Aurora, HI. 
Northern—Edu-aid E. Madigan, *54, Central Illinois — Thomas Hamilton, 5328 Glenbrook Dr., Oakland, Calif. 

Jr., ^53, 105 Attdovcr Dr., Spring­
Oranie County—Thomas J. Getztng-field, ni. er, '53, 2212 E. Wflshire Ave., Chicago — Paul Fullmer, '55, 7344 \ . Fullerton, Calif. Ridge Blvd., Chicago 45, 111. 5flrramrnti>—Gilbert .A. Zimmerman, Deealur-John F. Foy, '35, 1416 W. 
Tiecatur St,, Decatur. 111. mento, Calif. 
•42, 2660 Huntington Rd., Sacra­

Eastern Illinois—Lester D. Fahey, '42, 11 prairie, Danville. III. 
San Diego—L. Don Lopker, '35. 7154 Fox Valley — George R. Schmidt, '29. 

Homer St., San Diego, Calif. 92120. 

630 Summit St.. Elgin, III. Son Fernando Valley—^Robert Hunter, 
Joliel — Robert »L Walsh, '43. 2609 
'52, 8757 Jumilla Ave., Northridge, Dougall Rd., Joliet, III. Caiif. Kankakee Valley — Thomas J. Rey­San Gabriel Valley — William T. nolds, '54, 343/3 S. Winfield, Huston. '51, 612 S. Flower St., 
Kankakee, 111. Suite 700, Los Angeles 17, Calif. .McHenry County — Thomas J. Par­
sley, '34, 377 West Crj-stal Lake COLORADO Ave., Crystal Lake, 111. Colorado Springs — Otto K. Hilbert, 
Peoria—iamm ii. McComb, '54, 1318 '54, &<0 Dove Place, Colorado W. Parkside Dr., Peoria, III. Springs, Colo. Roekford—Albert Carroll, '22, 206 W. Denver—James R. Hilgcr, *57, 3166 State St., Roekford, III. 
S. Vine St., EngletitKKl, Colo., Rock River Valley—Paul L. Bcrrer­80110. 
tini, '56, 609 Crawford Ave., Dixon. III. 
CONNECTICUT 

Southern Cook County — Robert N. 
Comnec^eut Valley — Robert L. Afc-Caffarelli, '55, 2633-E Hawthorne Goldrick, '56, Old County Highway, Lane. Flossmoor, 111. East Granby, Conn. 
Fairfield County—^WUIiam Mulrenan, 
•37, 100 Tidemill Terr., Fairfield, 

INDIANA 
Conn. Naugatuck — Domenic A. Narducci, 

Calumet District — Anthony Kuhar-Jr., "52, 44 Beacon Manor Rd., 
ich, '35, 7145 Baring Parkway, Hammond, Ind. 
Naugatuck, Conn. 

Eastern Indiana—James F. HalUgan, New Hasten—nr. Robert T. Warner, '32, 303 Wysor BIdg., Munde. Ind. 
'53, 1960 Whitney Ave., Hamden Elkhart — Austin Gildea, '30, 5 St. 

17, Conn. 

Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind. 
DELAWARE Evansville—D. Patrick O'DanicI, '59, Arthur F. DiSabatino, '59, 801 Bank 3U0 East Gum St., E>-ansviIIe, Ind. of Ddatvarc BIdg., U7Imitigton, Fort Wttyne — Jerome F. Himkind, 
Del. 

'39 2305 Stanford Dr., Fort Wayne. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA Ind. 
Grant County — Eugene A. Campa-Albert A. Vinnlck, Jr„ '56, 7707 nalc; '50, 3001 Lincoln Blvd., 
Granada Drive, Bethesda 14, Md. 

Manon, Ind. Indianapolis—Richard F. McNaraara. FLORIDA '54. I Bennett Rd., Camiel, Ind. Central—Joseph M. ^fcNaznara, '47, 46032. 
P.O. Box 5547, Orlando, Fla. Michigan City — J. Enisnett AfiUer, 
Ftrt LndtriaU — Robert E. Mc-'24, 3007 Cleveland Ave., Michigan Oaaongb, '52, 2S44 Plunkett St., City, Ind. HaUrwood, Fla. St, Joseph Valley — Richard deary, 
Greater Miami ~~ Robert I. Probst, '50, 15645 Spring Mill Dr., -Misha­'5B, S215 S. W. 76th Ave., Miami, waka, Ind. 46344. Terra Haute — James P. Boyer, '49, 18 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End,2340 1964 McKcen, Texre Haute, Ind. 
IOWA 

Burlington — Wlfliam Bauer, '57, 119 Afarictta St., Burlington. Iowa. C^Jar Rapids—Clarence Hutches, '59. 
R.R. 1, Cedar Rapids, lou-a. 
Dei Moines — Joseph B. Joyce, '54. 4708 S.W. I6th St., Des Moines 15, Iowa. 
Dubuque—Rev, Wlliam Kunscb, '37, Our Lady of Seven Dolors Rectory, Fcstina, Iowa. 
Sioux-Land — Raymond B. Duggan, *43, 32-*4 Jackson, Sioux City 4. 
Tn-Cities {DavenpoTty Rock Island, Moline, E. Afoltne) — Thomas F. Britt, '52, 119 Femwood, Daven­port, Iowa. 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, *49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. Salina—Aibcrt J. McLean, '31, 1410 Highland Ave., Salina, Kan. IfiVAila—George A. Schwarz, '25, 500 Orphcum BIdg., Wichita 2, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 
Robert H. Willenbrink, '49, 2151 Strathmoor Blvd., Louis^nlle, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 
New Orleans—Pierre V. MDler, '59, 5327 Jacqueline Ct., New Orleans, Louisiana. 
Northern Louisiana—Dr. Edward R. Morgan, '44, 803 Jordan St., Shrc\*cport, La. 
MAINE 

J. Paul Scully, Jr., '41. 38 Clcmons St., South Portland, Maine. 
MARYLAND 
Baltimore — Thomas R. Shine. '59. 3117 Rheims Rd., Baltimore 7. Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS 
Berkshire County — Alfred J. Bzdula, '49, 87 Kittredge Rd., Pittsfield, 
itass. 

Boston — Cortielius Fowler, '47, 44 Gailord Street, Melrose 76, Mass. Pioneer Kof/O"—Daniel J. O'Connell, 
'22, II Pynchone Rd., Holyoke, .Mass. 
MICHIGAN 
Battle CreeJt—Raymond R. Allen. '40, 409 Orchard PI., Battle Creek, Mich. 
Berrien County — Dr. Piiul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, NUes, Mich. Blue Water District — WUiam L. 
Wbon, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron. Midi. Dearborn — Joseph W. Byrne, *52, 8643 Kinlodi, Dearborn, Jfich. Detroit — Louis G. Basso, Jr., '53, 1000 Penobscot BIdg., Detroit, ifich. Flint — Walter G. Nagel, '56, 1921 Castle Lane, Flint, Mich. 
Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn. '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels BIdg., Ironwood, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
— Robert C. Woodhouse, '47, 1664 Alexander, S.E., Grand Rapitls, Mich. 49506 
Hiawathaland — Donald T. Trottier, '44, 604 Ludington St., Estsnaba, Mich. 
Jackson — Cjiil J. Hartmao, '23, 612 Webb St., Jackson, Mich. Kalamazoo — Jcieph O'Keefe. '44, O'Keefe Motor Sales, 433 W. Water St., Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Lansing — Bernard J. Mayottc, '50, 1130 Hitching Post, E. Lansing, Mich, 
.l/onroe—Hugh J. Laughna. '40, 1587 Riverview. Monroe, Mich. 
Muskegon — Stanley R. Tyler, Jr., '38. 2211 Renecr St., Muskegon, Mich. 
Saginaw Valley — Gerald E. Carroll 
•«, 2124 Sixth St., Bay City, Mich. 
Top of Michigan — Edward L. Molo^-. ne>-, '17. 416 East State St.. Che^' boygan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 
Twin Cities — John F. ClilTord. '38, 984 Ashland .•\ve., St. Paul. .Minn. 
AHSSISSIPPI 
William H. Mnier, '30, 755 Cillespie PI., Jackson, Miss. 
MISSOURI 
Kansas City — Harold S. Solomon, '47, I22I W. 7l5t Terrace. Kansas City, Mo. 
St. Louis — C. T . "Connie" Lane, '57, 11534 Clayton Kd., St. Louis, .Mo. 
MONTANA 
Bernard Grainey, '43, 906 ­Helena, Montana. 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs — Dr.^ James J. Leahy, '42. 423 .N'. 3Slh*) St., Omaha. Xeb. 68131. ^' 
NEW JERSEY 
Central — ^VUIiam A. Richartlson, *55, 7 Orchard Rd., Piscataway, N.J. 
•V^a* Jersey Shore—Raymond M. Ticr-n<T, Jr.. '54, 45 North Vale Ave., Little Silver. X.J. 
New Jersey—Hsxrry Durkin, '53. 24 Branford Place, Newark, N.J. South Jersey — James B- Canon, '56, 624 Clinton Ave., Haddonfield, N.J. 
• 
NEW MEXICO 
Richard R. Evetroad, '41, 2323 Mor-TOW Rd., N.E., Albuquerque, N.M. 
NEW YORK .ilbany — Frank E. O'Brien, '58, 99 Brookline Ave., Albany, N.Y. Buffalo — Paul D. Balling, '53, 525 Orchard Place, North Tonawanda, N.Y. Ce»(ra/—Francis W. Cahill, Jr., '59, 101 Woodlawn Terr., Syracuse, N.Y. Golden Circle—Jasnes F. McVay, '42,^ 49 Parkway Lane, Bradlord, Ki. .Mid-Hudson Valley—Brian C. O'Neill, '36, Titusvillc Road, Rt. No. 2, Poughkeepsie, N.Y. .Mohawk Valley — L. Danid Callan, '49, 62 Pearl St., New Hartford, N.Y. New York City — Augustin S. Har­dart, '42, 26 Crescent Rd., Larch­mont, N.Y. Rochester — Reginald A. Morrison, '37, 173 Biltmore Dr., Rochester 17, N.Y. Schenectady — Robert B. Piorkowski, '54, 9 Oak HiQ Dr., Scotia 2, N.Y. Syracuse—See "Central New York." 
Southern Tier — Frank F. O'Brien, '34, 201 Federation Bid*., Elmira, X.Y. 

triple Cities — Joseph P. Galloway, '51, 29 Norman Rd. (MR97), Binshamton, N.Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA 
Donald J. Kelsey, '48, 1115 West-ridge Rd., Greensboro, N.G. 
NORTH DAKOTA 
William Daner, '53, 1106 S. Highland Acres, Bismarck, N.D. 

Tulsa — William N. Sheehan, '49, I93I S. Evanston, Tuba, Okla. 
OREGON 
Phil R. Meaney, '50, 223 BoattJ of Trade BIdg., Portland, Ore. 
PENNSYLVANIA 
Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. Katter, '41 U.S. Bank Btdg., Johnstown, Pa. 
Erie — Richard T. McCormick, '55, 4425 Cherry St., Erie, Pa. //orriiiarf—Donald R. Meek, '50, 520 Kirk Ave., New Cumberland, Pa. 
Memphis — Roy E. GiUia, '56, Peat Morwidt AGtchell & Cb^ 2500 Sterick BIdg., Memplus. Tcnn. 
yashviUe—Capt. Charles F. Splcka, '54, lll A Cbcbom Dr., Smjma, Tcnn. 
TEXAS 

Dallas — Warren N. Higgins, '52, 6905 South Ridge Dr., Dallas 14, Texas. 
Et yojo—Edward T. Jenm'ngs, '53, 312 Olivia Ciide, EI Paso, Texas. Houjlon—Robert F. Dillon, '48, 9418 Winsome Lane, Houston 42, Texas. Midland-Odessa — John L. O'Heni, 
•37, 1001 W. 25, Odessa, Texas. 
La Cnsst — Dan e D . W-wii«.« *9fi^ 3111 S. Loer.- La Crow, Wise 
4f<rriS—Augtutns H. Suage, "27, 102 
S. Brospect St., Merrill. Wiic. 
Mitwantee—Thomas L. Mukahj, *57. 7349 N. Lombardr Rd., Mflmu­kee 17. Wise. 
Northwest Wisconsin—Ben M. Sxi­anni, Jr., '60, 316 West Grant, Eau Claire, Wise 
South Central—Bernard S. Mixtacki, '50, 6303 Sylvan Ln., Madison, Wise. 53716. 
Southeastern — Edwin E. Raymond, Jr., '49, 2820 21 St., Racine. Wise. 

Lehigh Valley—]ama O. Funari, '50, Rio Grande Valley—VLrixit Aiiz, '49, 
• OHIO WYOMING 
119 South West St., Allentown. Pa. 1205 W. Elizabeth St., Brownsville, Akron — Paul A. Bcrtsch. '60, 159 Texas. Patrick H. Meenan. '49, Midwest 
Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, 
OaJtdale Ave., Akron 2, Ohio. Bids.. P.O. Box 481, C^er , Wyo. 
'41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, San Antonio—^William E. Lanmi, '50, 
Canton—Robert L. Joliet, '51, 4610 
Pa. 321 Eleanor Ave., San Antonio, 
Yale Ave., N.W., Canton 9, Ohio. 

Philadelphia—-}saxics P. Le>-don. 268 Texas. 
Cincmnori—Paul F. Kellcy. '5+, 7083 FOREIGN CLUBS 
Henley Rd., Philadelphia 51, Pa. 
UTAH 
Bestvicw Terr., Cincinnati 30, Ohio. 

Pittsburgh — Paul A. Hudak, '51, Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane. 
Don J. Roncy, '58, 320 East Fourth, 
CUveland—Kcb^rd H. Miller. '54, C.S.C.. '24, Moreau House. 28 Zin-Scranton — C. Richard Marshall, *51, 
705 Fairview Ave., Pittsburgh 38, Salt Lake City 8, Utah. 
2245 Stillman, Cleveland Heights dabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
18, Ohio. Connell BIdg., Scranton 3, Pa. 
Canada — Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, Columbus — Roger O. Zoellner, '53, Wilkes-Barre — Raymond J. Sobota, 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. 
VIRGINIA 

'49, 760 Miners Bank, WUkes-Barre, 
Leo F. Burke, '44, 900 Blanton Ave., 
185 Winthrop Rd., Columbus 14, 

Pa. Chile — Rev. Francis A. Provenzano, Ohio. Richmond, Va. C.S.C.. '42, St. Geoitje's College, 
Williamsport — Joseph F. Orso, Jr., 
UoyJon—Peter J. Donahue. '52, 2076 •55. 822 Franklin St., Williamsport, TiVeai<i(«r—Phillip L. Russo, '49, 153 Aven, Pedio de Valdivia 1423, San­
tiago, Chile. 

Ridceburj' Rd., Dayton, Ohio 45440. Pa. Cedar Ln., Lynnharcn, Va. .'JWomi/fon—Jerome A. Ryan, '41, 353 Ecuoi/or—John Moeller, '47, P.O. Box 
South D St., Hamilton, Ohio. WASHINGTON 213, Quito, Ecuador. .l/oTu/ieW—Leo J. Scanlon, '30, 121 
RHODE ISLAND 
Spokane — Richard St. John, '56, E. Germany — Charles A. Hickman, '58, Pearl Street, Crestline, Ohio. 2003 37th Ave., Spokane, Wash. ScheUingstrasse No. 81, Munich, Northwestern — James W. Myeis, '38, MASSACHUSETTS Germany. 
AND SOUTHEASTERN 
99203. 230 E. Wayne St., Celina, Ohio. Edward P. Denning, '50, 114 Green­Western — Alex S. Toth, '49, 4527 Manila — Coniado Sanchez, Jr., '54, 
Ohio Valley—Robert R. Sincavich, '50, wich Ave., E. Providence, R.I. 83 Mayon St., Quezon City, Phil­
Second Ave., N.E., Seattle 5, 
134 Grant Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. ippines. ScmJusky — Richard C. Hohler. '47, 
Wash. SOUTH CAROLINA Mexico City—Telmo De Landero, '37, 
2603 Eastwood Dr., Sandusky, Ohio. ^VEST VIRGINIA 
Eugenio Sue No. 220, Mexico Cty, 

Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., Westivood, Charleston, S.C. Cyril -M. Reich, '39, 903 S. Drew St., 
Tiffin — Fred I. Wagner, '29, 152 Mexico. 
Sycamore St., Tiffin, Ohio. 

St. Albans, W.Va. Panama—Lorenzo Romagoza, '45, Box 
Toledo — WilUam E. Theese, '57, 2336 Green Valley Dr., Toledo, Central — John D. Julian, '40, P.O. 
3393, Panama, Rep. of Panama. 

SOUTH DAKOTA 
Box 2063, Clarksburg, W.Va. Peru—Enrique Lulli, '45, Cuzco 440, Ohio. 
Black HiHl—Bernard Gira, '10, Cus­Lima, Peru. 
Younestown—Charles J. ^fcCrudden, ter, South Dakota. 
mSCONSIN 

'57, 124 Prestwick, Youngstown, Puerto lUco — Paul McManus, '34 
Ohio. /•'ox RiL-er Valley—Robert J. Simkins, 
(Vice-Pres.), CaUe. McKinley 666, TENNESSEE ^lirama^, Puerto Rico. 
'56, 210 N. Summit St., Appleton, 
^ OKLAHOMA 
WUc. 

Chattanooga — Edward F. Davis, *43, Rome — Vincent G. McAloon, '34 Jr., '54, 2601 Diakcstone, Okla­Oklahoma City —Walter A. Nashert, 
50fi Barrington, Signal Afount:iin. Creen Bay—Rnben W. Schaefer. '53, (Secretary), Palazzo Brancacdo, homa City, Okla. Tcnn. - 2522 Martha St., Green Bay, Wfac. Largo Brancacdo, 82, Rome. Italy. 
Proposed agenda for the year: Oct. 29, Sports were FR, JOHN DUNNIGAN (ahnost '56), GENE Rally; Oct. 31, Notre Dame-Nav>* game trip to O'CONNOR '56 and JACK ENDER5 [53. Every­Philadelphia; November, Stag Party; December, one enjoyed the showing of Buffalo Bills football Notre Dame Communion Sunday, BOB PERKINS, Blms which Chuck Burr, Assistant General Man­chairman; January*, 4th Annual Scholarship Ball, ager of the Bills personally narrated. JACK Mc-BILL KEARY, chairman; February or March, MAHON '55 was chairmaa of the program. 
Clubs 

Ladies' Night Party; April, Universal Notre Dame Members were informed- by President PAUL Night. BALLING '53 that the Cjub's Scholarship Fund —TONY MILETO, Secy. at the University now has a principal amount of ^ Akron $10,000. He expressed thanks to ever^-one who helped, over the past several years, to reach this 
•W Election of officers for the year '64-'65 was held 
Boston total. 
at lacomini's Restaurant last May 14. The new On September 9, l9Si, the Club held the annual In late August a congratulatory- letter vvas sent officers are: PAUL BERTSCH '60, president; ED party at the Smith House in Cambridge, Mass., by the Club to \VILLIAM E. MILLER '35. A reply BUTLER '60, vice-president; JIM DETTLING '61, for the entering class of boys from the Greater from the Republican Vice-Presidential nominee, ex­secretary; and JACK LANGE '51, treasurer. 
Boston Area who are going to Notre Dame. pressing his appreciation, was read at the Sep­Plans were made for a banquet in July with BOB MARR '59 did an excellent job as chair­tember meeting. 
ARA PARSEGHIAN .is guest speaker. 
man. Prof. FRANK O'MALLEY from the Univer­Plans were announced concerning the Club's all­—JLM DETTLING, Secy. 
sity spoke eloquently concerning the students and expense, one-day football c:ccursion to the Notre the programs of the school. Dame vs. Pittsburgh game on Saturday, November 
REV. THOMAS J. CORR, CSC, the new presi­7. The elaborate arrangements for this event were dent of Stonehill College, gave an inspiring talk made by Excursion Chairman HANK BALLING '52. 
Atlanta 
.Ml Notre Danic-St. Mar>''s alumni and friends to the young men. President NEIL FOWLER and Assisting Hank on the Information Committee were Were invited by the Atlanta ND Club to a dinner National Alumni Board member TIM TOOMEY .\UT T DUGGAN '52, JACK LA VIGNE '49, at tlie Atlanta Athletic Club on Sept. 1, featur­

>poke briefly. FRANK GAGLIONE '39 and President PAUL ing ED KRAUSE, ND director of athletics, uith 
A highlight for the ninety-odd that attended was BALLING. 
an up-to-date report on the University's athletic the appearance of four local students who are now A November meeting featured a talk on *'The : ^ program. 
seniors at the University and who gave an excel­Need for More Equity in Taxation." 
More than 150 attended the meeting, the best in 

lent Wewpoint to the meeting. Plans for the annual Notre Dame Mass and Com­the Club's history. MEL RUMA!EL handled reser­After the Victory* Dance at the 46 Club on munion Breakfast (to be held at Rosary Hill Col­vations, and other mainstays were DICK MURPHY .November 14, we arc looking forward to our lege this year) arc in the formative stage. Also in and Secretary JOE SIGNAIGO. 
.Annual Communion Breakfast on December 6. committee are plans for the Annual Scholarship —CHARLES F. COLTON, Seo'. Fund Dance at the Christmas holiday season. Baltimore —JACK McMAHON '55, Secy. 
The Notre Dame Club of Baltimore is on the move once again. Wc kicked off the new Club BufFalo year at the first general meeting of the year on The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo held Sept. 22, 1964, at whicJi time the new Club officers its own version of "Freshman Orientation" on Wed­Calumet Region Were introduced and the agenda proposed for the nesday, Sept. 9, 19&f. This annual affair, at which In spite of a last-minute cancellalioo'^ by the year 1%'as presented. Details of the meeting follow: entering freshmen and their fathers were guests guest speaker, Mrs. Rose Kennedy (mother of late 
New officers: President, TOM SHINE '59; Vice-of the Club, u-as well attended by both the Alumni President JOHN F. KENNEDY LL.D \50), the President, JIM MURRAY '35; Secretary, TONY members and the special guests. Speaking on the Club went ahead with the annual Xfass and Com­MILETO '61; and Treasurer, R.AY BENDER '60. subject of "The Value of a Notre Dame Education" munion Breakfast on Sunday, Oct. IB, this year a 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 19 
// 
Mrmonal Senicc for the S''c^' honorary' alumnus 
who w'zs assassinated on Nov. 22, 1963. 
Mass in St. Joseph*s Church, Hammond, u-as 
lolloivcd by breakfast at St. ^Gchael Ukrainian 
Hall. President TONY KUHARICH arranged the 
event, 
.\ \-er>- successful bus trip to the N'D-^\*isconsin football game u'as made by Calumet Clubbers on the u*eckend of Sept. 26. 
Cedar Rapids 
At a recent meeting of the Cedar Rapids Alumni Club, elections were held. CLARENCE HUTCHES '59 was elected president. Clarence is employed by the Quaker Oats Co. (phone 362-3121) and resides at RR 1^ Cedar Rapids, la. His home phone number is 364-3224. 
I have enjoyed my icnn as president and the opportunity it has afTordcd for renewed associa­tion u-ith the school during this challenging period. 
—A. JAMES MURR.\Y, Retiring Pres. 
Central NJ . 
Twenty incoming freshmen at llie University from the Central Xeiv Jerse>' area and their parents Were honored at an annual ^'Freshmen Sendoff^' \Vednesday, Sept. 9, at the Park Hotel in Plainfield. 
The cx'cning program, sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Central New Jersey, fea­tured tuo guest speakers: RE^^ ERNEST B.\R­TELL CSC, a Notre Dame graduate now on assign­ment at Princeton U., and -ALBERT PERRIN*E, an assistant director of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
The incoming freshmen who attended ^vcre: John 
F. Bambaia, Princeton; Frank C. Benesh, Perth Amboy; John Brcitcnstein, Wcstficid: Brian D. Dcpre, Union; Martin J. Fino, North Plainfield; \\'illiam V. Frezza, Duncllen; Joseph W. Hammes. Scotch Plains; Robert H. Harris, Clark; Richard 
J. Heency, Fords; Da\id A. Hes^n, Elizabeth; Brian F, Kclleher, Garwood; Michael O- McHaig, Cranford; Edw^d J. McLcar. Scotch Plains; ^Vil­liam B. Russo, Berkley Heights; Charles F. R\-an, Summit; John R. Sheehan, Princeton; John C. Siverd, Princeton; Joel A. Ta\-ormin3, Eliiabcth; -Arthur C. Tutela, Short Hills; and Theodore Zielinski, Cranford. 
J. NORRIS HARDING '57 was chairman of 
the e\ent. —DICK CONNELLY 
Chicago 
Dec 7 is the BIG NIGHT for all Fighting Irish fans in the Chicago area. That night more than 1,000 alumni and friends of Notre Dame will gather at the Pick-Conp'css Hotel to salute the best high-
CHICAGO — At right, survcj-ing prizes for the spectacular Oktoberfest, are the members of the prize committee (from (left). Bill Maddux, Chairman Tony Giro­lami and George Marcucci. 
school athlete-scholars In this area at the annual 
Knute Rockne Memorial Dinner. 
Three trophies will be awarded. Indindual tro­
phies will go to the top boy In the suburbs, as 
well OS the outstanding boy in both the city's 
Catholic and Public leagues. Chairman PAT 
SH.ANNON '48 and his two able assistants, JOHN­
-V^- LATTNER '5i and TOMMY CAREY '55 of 
football fame, promise one of the best programs 
in history. The>- have been lining up special guests 
for several months and you won't u'ant to miss 
this Rockne dinner. Reservations can be made 
through the dub oiJicc, AN3-6063. If you want 
to drop in and pick up the tickets, the office U in 
Room 1337 of the First National Bank Building. 
The Board of Governors would like to salute all those who paid 1964 dues. This revenue enabled us to expand our activities and strcngthea the University's favorable image in Chicago. We hope that you like the appearance of the new club director^* and activities guide. The directory was mailed to all members on our list. If you have not recei\-ed your copy, or if you want to make a correction, just phone the club office. All dues­pa;ing members are listed in boldface tj-pc in the current directorv-. 
More than 325 hearty alumni and friends sur­vived blistering 98-degree heat Aug. 3 to make the Chicago Club's annual Golf Outing and Sports Night Dinner at Elmhurst Country Club one of the most successful in history. 
Tradition has established the outing as a real "fun'' event and chairmen AL HANEY and JIM RYTHER went all out to make the guests forget the heat. 
They utilized the "shotgun" starting technique to get all the golfers out on the course. Leading the^pack was TOM ^V.ALSH %viih a 74. The son of a Chicagoland golf pro, Tom was in the Windy Citv for the summer after a vcar of teaching at the U. of Georgia. At dinner COL. FRED SNITE presented Tom with the Fred Srnie Jr. Memorial Trophy, which goes to the low alumnus. The Colonel, the club's host again this year, ^vorked his way around the full 18 holes in the afternoon. 
TONY GIROLAMI, prize chmrman for the event, puHed together nearly 150 golf and door prizes to send a^«'ay most with baubles under tlieir arms. He was assisted most ablv by GEORGE MARCUCCI and BILL MADDUX. 
Others who contributed to the over-all success of the outing were FRED HOLZL, JOHN TULLY, FIUNK MURN-A-NE, JOHNNY LATTNER, TOM H.AYES, NEIL HALLOR-AN, STEVE REBORA, JERRY BR-ANSFIELD and DICK BEEMAN. 
A delicious steak dinner and a fast-moWng pro­gram "quarteibacked" by Chicago Daily Jiews col­umnist John Carmichael put a cool cap on the day-Carmicliael, one of the fastest wits on the banquet 
circuit, kept the crowd on its toes with a wide 
\ariety of anecdotes. 
He also introduced Notre Dame's two new heatA) 

coadics, ARA PARSEGHI.AN and JOHNNY DEE T 
Other speakers included FATHER JOYCE, ED 
"MOOSE" KRAUSE and BOB CAHILL. 
Sports personalities in the audience included TOM CAREY, LEN SKOGLUND, JOE ZW'ERS, BERT METZGER, and FRANK REYNOLDS. 
More than 125 incoming freshmen and their 

parents had a better idea of what to expect at 
and from Notre Dame after our Freshman Recep­
tion at McCormick Place Sept- I. TOM HAYES 
*55, cliairman of the Prep Committee, handled 
the details on this event, which was an SRO affair. 
JI.M GIBBONS, assistant director of public rela­tions ior the University, gave a ivondcrful presen­tation on \*hat ND expects from the boy, and lA: think cver>'onc took away a new impression of the sdiool. We scr\'ed refreshments to the bo>-s and tlicir parents after the formal talk. Then titrnks to FRANK VOGEL, president of the campus dub, the reception took on a new dimension. Seniors from the various colleges talked with the boys and their parents on an informal basis, answering specific questions as to procedures and rules. 
TTiis was the first year that wc invited both parents, and the reaction was very positive. This expanded format, possible only through ihe tre­mendous support you have prov*ided in the past few years, enables us to reach many more people and show both the Club and the University in the best possible light. ^ . 
.Again a vote of thanks to AL ILVNEY '53 and " JIM RYTHER '56, who did such a great job as co-chairmen of the Golf Outing and Sports Night Dinner in August. It will be difficult for next year's committee to top their efforts. The revenue from this event helped undcr%%-ritc the expense of the Freshman Reception and the Rockne Dinner. All Rockne Award nominees and their coaches are guests of the Club at the Rockne Dinner. 
The Oktoberfest, our new pre-season fun party, got off to a real bang-up start uith a committee spearheaded by the younger graduates. P-AT PHE­L-AN '60 was chairman of the Sept. 19 event at the Gcrmania Club, and he put together one of the best committees in club history, ^fore than 700 turned out for the new event. 
KEVIN BURKE '59, Sales Manager; JOHN FANNON '56, Door Prizes; TOM BRINK\VORTH^ '60, Decorations; and MIKE O'CONNOR '62 didW a fantastic job in making the part\' a big success. The high-stepping German band did its part, too. 
.A good football movie^ implemented bv comments from HUGHIE DEVORE, injected the football flavor. Other special guests included FR. TOM 
Freshmai reception, at left, was attended by more than 300 incoming freshmen and their parents at McCormick Place in September. Top: Jim Gibbons '53, ND asst. director of public relations (right), was speaker. Bottom: Tom Hayes '55, prep school chairman (left), and seniors answered the questions of new students and parents. Mothers were imitcd to the reception this year for the first time. 
•
20 Xotre Dame Alumnus, Year End. 196i 
BRENNAN and Bajketball Coach JOHNNY DEE. 

Sales captains in the recent classes were: ED _pUNN '« . DON RYAN '63, DAVE MENZIE '62. JBILL KEARNEY and MIKE CRONIN '61, TOM 
BRINKWORTH and PHIL ALLEN '60. KEVIN BURKE '39, BOB SPAHN '38, BILL RIGALI '57, JOHN FANNON '36, MIKE KELLY '55 and BILL REYNOLDS '54. 
Others who contributed to the success of the party included JERRY McNAMARA '38, TOM JOLIE '63 KEN SCHUSTER '49, PAUL KEAR­NEY '36. DICK PHEL/VN '38, DON PINS '60. TO.M GROJE/XN '60, PAT .MONTROY '53, PAT O'.MALLEY and E/\RL LINEHAN '62. 
With the spirit shown by this year's committee, it looks like we may have a new event for the annual club activity schedule. It sure is one great i»ay to welcome in the new /oolball season! 

' ^ Sec you all at the Rockne Dinner Dec. 7 at the Conerrss. —PAUL FULLMER '33, Pres. 
Cincinnati 
The plusii cnvirrnnicnt of the University Club in downtown Cincinnati was the scene of the ND Cin­cinnati Chib's election meeting on June 9. Kcw officers emerging from the afTair were: PAUL F. KELLEY '54, prcs.; CHUCK LIMA '58. vicc-prcs.; TED DAWSON '61, sec>-.; and BOB FROLICHER '54. treas. Following the election a rousing round of applause was given the outgoing pres., BARRY SAVAGE '54, for his successful administration of 

^th e club over the past year. On May 28 the Cincinnati Club held its spring dinner dance at tlic Mariemont Inn. Hats off to TOM ISPHORDING '56 for cliairmanning this popular event. Members and guests enjoyed cock­tails, dinner, and dancing till the wee hours. A feature of the evening was the presentation of the XD Man-of-the-Vcar award to R^VY GUDMENS in recognition of his cooperation, support, and loyalty to ihe club and its activities over the past years. .'Xug. 5 Was the date for the ND golf outing at the Hyde Park Country- Club. HOWARD ROH.-VN presided as chairman and ofTered a day of golf, cocktails and chicken dinner, and the usual after-dinner speeches and awarding of prizes. JOHN FREY *59 took the low net honors, and BOB BURKE won two awards: a trophy for his low gross score, and a standing ovation in rccogni-
Ption of his articulate eloquence at the speaker's rostrum. Sept. 8 was the date set for the annual Mcet­ihe-Frcshmcn Picnic. Bill Burke '54 was the chair­man of this year's event and reserved Afaplc Ridge Lodge in Mt. Air>* Forest for the event, which fea­tured baseball, steak dinner, and assorted poker games. A highlight of the affair was the guest speaker: Mr. JIM GIBBONS from the public rela­tions dept. at ND. Flans for the future include a formal dinner dance at the Lookout House over the Christmas holidays and a successful season for ARf\ PAR­SEGHI.AN. Best of luck. 
—TED D.AWSON '61, Secy. 
Cleveland 

Tlie Famify Picnic was revived this year and held at Gilmour Academy in mid-August. Chair-manned by TERRY CONWAY, a turnout of 150 members and their families enjoyed an afternoon of baseball, swimming and races for the cliildren. On Sept. 10, the Fall Business Meeting was held at Rohr's Restaurant. A crowd of over 100 members turned out to welcome the new freshmen and their fathers. PAT ROCCO, campus club president, and his officers presented a program of orientation for the incoming freshmen. TIic cliair­men of the Scholarship Drive, JOHN MENDEN­HALL and THOMAS MULLIG.VN. announced tliat this year's winner would receive an all-expense­b paid trip to Los Angeles for two during the week-t-nd of the Notre Dame-Southern California game. The Sliakcr Heights Country Club was the set­ting for this vear's annual golf party, held Sept. 21 with A. A. STEFANEK and RICHARD VAN .XUKEX scri-ing as co-chairmen and H. M. O'NEILL as honorary' clialrman. A turnout of over 140 made Ibis year's event one of the finest in many years. Directing the selection of golf prizes was JOHN CHAPL.\, who has performed this job in e.^ccellent fashion for as long as wc can remember. CREIGH­TON MILLER won medalist honors for the day. 
Once again, PAT CANNY and JIM UPRICHARD sponsored a special train to the Notre Dame-Purduc football game on Oct. 3, 1964. Club members HUGH M. O'NEILL and J. E. SOTAK JR. re­scr\ed a full car each for their guests. 
CINCINNATI —Planning the Club's activ­ity program for 1964-65 arc this year's Cincinnati officers (clockwise from lower left): Paul Kelley '54, pres.; Chuck Lima '58, v-pres.; Bob Frolicher *54, treas.; Ted Dawson '61, secy. 
A testimonial resolution honoring the memory of 
FR. BERNARD A. BLATT, deceased chaplain of 
the Clewland Notre Dame Club, was presented to 
his brother. GEORGE BL.\TT. bv CLrUTON G. 
LeROUX, JOSEPH E. SOTx\K JR., LEO J. BUR­
BY, ROBERT E. DOWD, and THOMAS F. 
BREMER, as past presidents of the Cleveland Club. 
Father Blatl was chaplain to the Club for twelve 
vears from the period of 1943 to 1964. 
' Tlie Rt. Rev. MSGR. EDWARD J. SEWARD 
has graciously accepted a request by President 
RICHARD H. MILLER to ser\e as Club chaplain. 
TJic Rockne A^*"ards Program is off to a fine running start under the very able direction of ROBERT Li\LLY. This year's group of finalists looks to be one of the best all-around high-school football players in several years. The Award Dinner is scheduled lor some I'tme in January, and the exact date will be announced later. 
The Club extends its wishes for a speedy recovery to PAT CANNY, who suffered a stroke in late September. 
—JOHN P. COYNE, Secy. 
Columbus 
On Aug. 12 the Notre Dame Club of Columbus, Ohio, held a reception for new students and their parents at the St. Theresa Retreat House. BOB KOSYDAR '53 moderated the event and intro­duced Alumni Club President ROGER ZOELLNER '53 and JOHN IGOE '28, who welcomed the stu­dents to the Ctub and to Notre Dame. After the 
DENVER—Visitor Jim Armstrong (second from right}, in ton*n on Altunm* Assn. busi­ness, was entertained by Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Smith (left) and Carl Eiberger. Gerry is ND Foundation chairman and Carl co-chairman for the Denver, Colo., area. 

movie "Notre Dame,'* parents, were able to quiz a panel of three students, senior Bob Dilenschneidcr, junior Gary Armstrong, and sophomore Kevin Igoe, regarding spending money, permissions, clothing, laundry, and other aspects of campus life. 
On Saturday, Sept. 12. the Club held its annual back-to-school picnic at AL TONTI's estate over­looking the scenic Scioto River with about fifty alumni, students, dads, and friends attending. Man­aged by Club Vice-President BOB OVERMAN '60. the event featured shufBeboard, cards, talk, and elbow bending. The feature event was the annual Student-Alumni touch football game. The students Scored for the first time in four years but were still defeated 10-8, due in part to the tremendous charge by the alumni defensive specialists, BOB KOSYDAR '53, AL EICHENLAUB '52, and DAVE H.AGENS '55. 
.Among the spectators and guests for dinner were Dr. TOM HUGHES '28, TOM HUGHES JR., Dr. HENRY HUGHES '41, JOHN MURPHY '28, ED a\NTWELL '24. MIKE CANTWELL '58, Con­gressman SAM DIVINE '40 and DICK K.ASBERG '48. 
A November smoker is being planned for the Columbus Club. —MIKE HOFFM.AN '55, Sccv. 
Connecticut Valley 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of ih' Connecticut Valley held its annual dinner on September 15 at Hart­ford's City Club for freshmen entering Notre Dame. Eleven freshmen from the area served by the Club entered the University this year. The new students were shown a motion picture about the University and had an opportunity to meet and talk with local alumni. 
Another item of interest for Connecticut Valley alumni is the success enjoyed by the Hartford Charter Oaks in the Atlantic Coast Football League. The newly established professional team won three of Its first four games to pace the league's northern division. The Charter Oaks are coached by former Notre Darner FRED WALLNER, and one of the club's executives is NED BREWER, also an alum­nus. Another Notre Dame man, JOHN GER.\GHTY, is one of the Charter Oaks players. 
—DON FOSKETT, Secy. 

Dayton 
Mr. ANDREW AMAN HI was elected president of the Dayton Club for the year I9&t-I965. Mr. Aman died In July, 1964. Our elected vice-president, Mr. PETER J. DONAHUE, 2076 Ridgebury Road, Dayton, Ohio 45440, Is serving as the acting presi­dent, although he Is retaining the title o£ vice-president as a mark of respect for Mr. Aman. The other officers arc THOifAS EISENHAUSER, treas­urer, and JOHN TEHAN, secretary-. 
—PATRICK J. FOLEY, Board .\fcmbcr 

Dearborn 
Although our general meetings were suspended for the summer, the Club maintained an active social schedule beginning with the Family Picnic held this year at Camp Dearborn. MEL LiVRSEN and JIM COLOSIMO were co-chairmen with a special assist from RAY DEFAUAV. Outside of com-p1:unts about warm beer, everyone enjoyed an espe­cially fine day, although EMORY DAKOSKI, JIM KLINK, JERRY SARB, BILL HETTLE, JIM ENGLEHART and JACK MORGAN admitted after the Softball game that they were getting old. CLARK WLSON and FRANK SHERIDEN agreed it was suds, not age, that was getting to them. Xelthcr suds nor age bothered GEORGE TOBIN and his summer house guest HUGH DEVORE JR., as Hugh made dazzling plays afield and George dazzled us with his capacity. BILL DOSMANN helped run the children's games, and we mider­stand he had a shoe torn to shreds because he didn't get out of the penny scramble fast enough. Xotre Dame kids are true CSC's—Cash, Strictly Cash. 
The highlight of the summer was the Dance and Cookout held at the home of Mr. and Mrs. PAUL KLUDING. Their spacious yard was dec­orated with strings of multicolored lights, dancing Japanese lanterns and an attractive array of hur­ricane lamps. ED CAWI and his wife Georgette shared the planning duties and were responsible for a very appetizing menu. Thirty couples at­tended, including DON MORRIS, PHIL ABBOTT, GENE WAGNER and JIM KING, who w-as vaca­tioning in Dearborn from his Huntsville, Ala., home. BILL DECRICK, LEO VIRGIL and DON HICKS particularly enjoyed the Club's traditional towel dance. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 21 
DICK (eb, RICHARD) KINO was hc»t to an 
cv-ening of dinner and dancing at the Detroit 
Yacht Qub in late August. Among the guests cn­
jo>ing this cool c\'cnine along the Detroit River 
were JERRY WAYXO and DON MULLANEY. 
The final function of the summer was the Golf 
Outing held at the Dearborn Countrv- Club, where 
JOHN FISH JR. and JERRY KELLY were co-
chairmen. DON MULLANEY and his guest were 
the best sandbaggers of the day inasmuch as the>* 
won first and second in the tournament. But 
GERRY G.\SS, R.\Y DEFAIHV, JOE BYRNE and 
JERRY KELLY (naturally) won the big door 
prizes. After a prime rib dinner some stalwarts 
remained to play cards and keep their throats 
lubricated. 
Fall events included September, October and 
No\-cmber meetings at the homes of JERRY KEL­
LY. DICK KING and RAY DEFAlAV, respective-
Iv. the annual drawinc and a Christmas collection 
for Cuban alumni by 1)0N MULLANEY. 
—CHARLES B. KITZ "58. Secy.-Treas. 
Decatur 
Last June's meeting was a great success, with a 
rousing vote of thanks from some young men from 
the Class of '67 who attended. 
JOHN FOY con\-ened the annual meeting of tbc 
ND Club of Decatur on Thursday, Oct. 29, at the 
House of Gabriel. The new spirit had the clan 
gathering unusually well attended. 
The Club's congratulations lo ARA P.\R­
SEGHL\N and the team for a sea.*on in cadence 
with th- \*ictor>' March—and to former Pres. 
BUZZ MORAN on his recent nuptials. 
—STEPHEN G. GRALIKER, Secy. 
Denver 
The Denver Notre Dame Qub Is still rolling 
throucfa its most successful vear under the fine 
leadership of JU ! HILGER '56. The club sold 
over eighteen hundred tickets to the Notre Dame 
rt. Air Force Academy game, bolstering our schol­
arship fund to over $2,000. Congratulations to 
the ticket committee composed oE J.\CK RY.AN 
'47, FRANK CONW.-\Y '27. JIM SHEEH.\N '50 
and ED XLVHONEY '52. 
JIM COUGHLIN '57 was responsible for the 
successful mi-xcr and dance for the visiting students. 
We arc still wondering where he found all the 
lovely young lo^-elies. 
August 20 we had our annual family picnic at­
tended bv the followine *'Domers" and their fami-
Ues: KEN .\D.\.MSON *60, JIM HILGER '56. 
GERRY SMITH '27. GENE BUSH '34, CHUCK 
B.AIER '51, 'Jt, DO-V KLENE '49. '55, JLM 
SHF.FHAN '50, BOB ZEIS '55. LEON .ARCHER 
'29, TOM G.\RG.AN, '49, and JIM R.AY. -\ good 
time was had by all including the thirty-four 
children present for the event. Joyce Baier. wife 
of Chuck, won the ladies' football-throwin? contest 
whHc JIM SHFFH^N topped the men. 
Events on schedule include a Notre Dame « . 
Michigan Sute television smoker, planned by 
FRANK CONW.AY; a visit to the Adolph Coors 
Company, producers of our fine hght beer, for an 
mteresting tour and a snack; and our annual 
Christmas dance being arr^inced bv P.\T Mc-
M-UION, BOB ZEIS, and LYN HIERATH. 
Our thanks to Joyce Baier. her daughter Katie. Barbara McMahon. Theresa Hierath. Barbara Hilger and Janet Sheehan for all the hours spent on our club's 'W directory. 
Our best wishes and warm welcome to BOB 
SCARPITTO '61, ace fianker for the Denver 
Broncos football team, and GEORGE DICKSON 
'49, outstanding defensive coach. 
Our thanks again to a^RL EIBERGER '52. '54. who wears many hats and spends many tireless hours working on the Club's behalf. 
Congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. DON KLENE '•^, *55^ on the birth of their eleventh child. The Klenc family, incidentally, is the largest in the Denver Notre Dame Cltjj. Congratulations! 
—KEN .\DA.MSOX '60, Secy. 
Detroit 
The Notre Dame Club ol Detroit announces the election of its officers for the fiscal year 1964-1965: President, LOUIS G. BASSO, Jr. B.\ '54, Law '55; First Vice-President, JOHN a .MURRAY '57; Second Vice-President, THO.MAS P. MOORE, II *58j Secretary, LOUIS C. BOSCO. Jr '58; and Treasurer, DANIEL J. KELLY '57. Subsequent to die installation of the officers in April, TOM MOORE moved to Muskegon, Mich., for business reasons and EDW.\RD J. GILBERT '55 was elected by the board of directors to fill the office of second vice-presidenL 

22 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End, 1964 
DEARBORN — Obviously enjoying one of the Club's s\»'jngmg late summer dances were (clockwise from upper left) Charlie and Betty Kitz, Joe and Doris Byrne, Bar­bara DeCrick, Ed and Georgette Can-i. Hosts were Paul and Mar>- Kluding (not shown) . 
On June 16, 19W, in excess of 180 golfers, the 
largest turnout in the history of the Club's Annual 
Golf Day, battled par at the Plum Hollow Golf 
Club. Representatives from the campus included 
Head FootfaaU Coach ARA PARSEGHL\N (who 
won medalist honors "with a 74), Assistant Coach 
JOHN'N'Y RAY, and Vice-President of the Univer­
sity FR. JERO.ME ^^^LSON CSC Arrangements for 
the partv, includimr ideal weather, were superbly 
handled by Co-chairmen JACK MORG.AN and 
ST.AN INSLEY. In conjunction with the Golf Party 
and door prizes, a drau-ing chaired by John P. 
0*Neill was held with the prize being a choice 
of several deluxe trips to either Bermuda or Puerto 
Rico. 
—LOU BOSCO, Secv-. 
The .-Vnnual Fall Stag Party, which is one of the highlights of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit's program year, was held on Tuesday, Sept. 15, 19&t, at the Detroit .Athletic Club, 241 Madison .Venue, in downtown Detroit. 
This year we had "MOOSE" KRAUSE and DENTfY TROESTER from the University campus, who not only brought us up to date on the 196t Notre Dame team but also presented to us the athletic partiapation under Notre Dame's Challenge II Program. 
The social hour began at 7:30 pjn. at the D.AC Gymnasium, and we also showed the 1963 football highlights movie. For the first time, this year we had a cosh bar set up in the gymnasium for those alumni and friends who desired something a little stronger than the usual refreshment. 
—WILLLAM J. M.ARKLEY, Chairman 
Erie 
The annual Notre Dame summer picnic, August 29, 1964, was a great success and enjoyed fay all. The affair was held at the LEO BRUGGER *J* summer home, Fairview, Pa. The incoming fresh­men and their parents were the honored guests. 
Among those who attended the picnic were: Messrs. and Mmes. JOHN J. McCORlHCK 'S3 HOOT SCULLY (Hon.) ^53, TIMOTHY McCOR-MICK, '56, RICH.ARD McCORAUCK, '55, THO.\LAS BATES '60, FRAN*K RILEY (Hon.) '58, LOUIS SHIOLENO '49, JOSEPH BARBER '36, LEO BRUGGER SR. '34, LEO BRUGGER JR. '61, HOWARD ESSICK '41. ROBERT B.ARBER '40, and TOiVV Z.AMBROSKI '52. Also REV. JOSEPH HIPP, MIKE McCOR-VaCK '61, PATRICK Mc-CORMICK '64, DICK .ANGELOTTI '66, JAMES D^VYER JR. '63, JOE SPAK '66 and PAUL ROCHE '67. 
AH of the Notre Dame alumni of Erie enjoyed meeting the incoming freshmen and wish them the best of luck in their four years at the University. It was also nice to see Fr. Hipp at the picnic; 
he is still busy doing his many jobs at Gannon 
College here in Erie. 
Late in September, the Notre Dame .Alumni of 
Erie had an opportunity to meet wth Mr. ^VII^ 
LLAM MILLER *35, the Republican vice-presiden­
tial candidate, at Gannon College here in Eric 
TONY ZAMBROSKI '52, area chairman of th-
Go Group for Miller here in Eric, arranged thv 
informal gathering and did a tremendous job. Mr. 
Miller gave an inspiring' talk and proved he is :i 
great asset to Notre Dame. 
The Notre Dame Club of Erie is quite proud of 
RICH .ARRINGTON '66, a nauvc son of Eric. 
He did a tremendous job as an Irish lineman during 
the '6i season. TOM B.ATES '60 is doing a fine 
job in the public relations department at Gannon 
College. 
JOE BL.AKE '61, a scminar>- student at the Uni­
versity, is recovering from knee surgery. We hcr ^ 
in Erie ^^ish Joe the speediest recovery. 
JOHN E. KELSCH, formcriy of Erie, met his 
father. Jack Kelsch, an ardent Notre Dame fan. 
and a ie^v close friends from Erie and Toledo 
in South Bend for the Fighting Irish season opener 
aeainst Purdue. 
P.ATRICK .McCOR.MICK '64 is to be congrat­
ulated on his choice of a state in life. Pat U 
studying for the priesthood. 
W'e here in Erie were sorry to sec our treas­
urer, JOHN LOCHTEFELD '55, leave Erie for a 
new teaching job in Eastern Penns^-lvania. John 
has done a fine job keeping the hooks for our 
Club for the last year and a half. JOHN Mc-
CORMICK JR. '53 was elected to take up thr^ 
treasurer's duties. RICH McCOR.MICK '55 !•.' 
busy these days working with his brothers John 
and Tim '56 in the construction business. 
.Attorney JOE BARBER *36 is busy with his 
law practice here in Eric, but he still finds time 
to tune in the Fighting Irish on Saturday after­
noons. MIKE McCORMICK '61, enjo>ed his trip 
to Pittsburgh for the Pitt-ND game. LOU SHI­
OLENO '49 is to be congratulated on his promo­
tion to Wce-presidcnt of Eric Technological Prod­
ucts Inc., Erie, Pa. 
—LEO J. BRUGGER JR. '61, Secy. 
Fort Lauderdale 
.As I sit dow-n to send to you the current hap­
penings of the Fort Lauderdale Club, the word of 
the resounding victory won by the Fighting Irish 
over the strong Wisconsin football team sound^ 
ver>- sweet to my ears. Word had come to us hcrc^ 
that the team would be one of which wc could all 
be proud, and we certainly congratulate Coach 
.Ara, the looiball team and the student body for 
making last Saturday a very happy one indeed. 
We look forward to more of the same and we know 
that We will not be disappointed. 

Under the fine leadership of President BOB McDONOUGH '52, our Club conu'nucs on another fine year- Bob has worked very hard to keep the many activities of the Club in full swing and his efforts have paid off. During our June meeting We prepared ourselves for the big football year ahead by riewing the filmed highlights of our 1947 Championship year. Bob narrated the film for us and did a job which would put JI.M GIBBONS-of the Redskins to shame. .After that film we ^ then saw a championship goU match on film be> tween Billy Casper and Chi Chi Rodriguez. The t***o films made a ver>- entertaining ci'ening for the Club vvhich \»-as enjoyed by our usual good turnout of members. .Among those enjoWnc the evening were FR.ANK CAREY '46. PETE ~BAR­SKIS, GEORGE H.A.MMERER *41. FRANK .Mc-DO.XOUGH '41. HUGH ^LALONEY, WALT KAC2.\LAREK '55 and DON DORINI '53. 
In July we held another closed business meeting and devoted most of the evening to a discussion of our annual international convention. It is our desire to give more time to the representatives of the Uni\-ersity who each year take time out of their schedules to be with us and tell us about neu­dev-elopments at our Alma Mater. We have decided A that next year we will provide time to hear from a representative of the University on each of the three days of our convention. We v«II, of course, continue to have our Universal Notre Dame Night on the Sattirday night of the con^-ention, when we vvill also present our award for the Club's Man of the Year. Many of our members turned out for the Julv meeting including: TO.M XLAUS '57, BOB GORE '31, CH.ARUE RUDD '5t, FRANK -Mc-GJSy '52, BILL .MOTSETT 'Si and TOM WALK­ER '42. We were also happy to have representatives o£ the Palm Beach Club on hand for this meeting. 
We did not hold a meeting during .August since so many of our members were out of the dty on vacations and since we had scheduled two big events for September- September then brought our 
Second Annual Freshman Send-Off Dinner meeting. Wc invited the wives to this one as well as the .new Irish entering Notre Dame for the first time 
'J|his year. The parents of the new freshmen were also our guesu. Among the new men in attendance were RAY NOVACCO '68. JEFF KEYES '68 and BERNARD CASTELLANI '68. In addition we had a good turnout of our membership, including TOM NOLAN *44, PRESTON McMURDO, BILL MAUS '53, CHARLIE QUINN '34, WILLARD MOSS, JOHN McGINN 'M, TOM SULLIVAN '48 and ROY GORE. Wc were very fortunate to have FR. JACK LINDSAY TOTTY L*52 speak lo us on some of the new developments in the Church liturgy and wc enjoyed very much hearing of some of his experiences as a street preacher in various cities throughout the amntry. 
On Wednesday, Sept. l6. Plantation Country Club 

^vas the site of our second annual stag golf tour­nament. Another good turnout of the membership enjoyed the day of golf, prizes and a bufTct dinner. A ftcc cocktail party was thrown in just to make things interesting and improve the golf scores. 
Three more big events were scheduled to wind up our year. On October 22 wc held our drawing for the annual sweepstakes event with the proceeds going to the University. November 14 was the date of our Club TV Party held at the Governor's Club Hotel in Fort Lauderdale, .^t this writing I am sure that the entire club will be there to sec the Irish trounce Michigan State. December is the month for our annual Club Communion Break­fast. Tlicn our year w-iU be over and wc will turn 

•th e reins over to a new group of officers for next year. 
As you can see, our sunimt-r montlis have not been spent idly. Tlte club has continued to grow with new members joining every month. In recent weeks we have welcomed BILL DAILY '28, RICH­ARD W. BROWN '57 and KEVIN QUINN '68. 
Since there is little more of interest left to be said by us, Til close this with our standing invita­tion to you and to all of our fellow alumni to visit our club when you are in Fort Lauderdale. 
—GEORGE PATTERSON L'58, Sec>-. 
Fort Wayne 
The Fort Wayne Club held its Back-io-Scliool 
Stag Outing on Wednesday, Sept. 2, at the K of C 

^4048 Clubhouse, featuring sandwiches, refreshments. 
V:ards and athletic endeavors with varying degrees of 
strcnuousness. 
On Sept. 22, Tuesday morning at 9:15 A.NL, at the eastern end o! the Batr Field Terminal, WILLL\M MILLER '35, Republican nominee for vice-president of the United States, held a brief rally attended by many Notre Dame men and friends. 
Fort \Vayne's Office Systems sponsored a showing of the ND-Purdue hinWights after the game on W.\NE-TV. 
Green Bay 
Congratulations to RAYMOND N- SAU\'EY CLU, named general agent in Green Bay by The Mutual 

• Benefit Life Insurance Co. Ray, who has 5uper\iscd the company^s district office since I960, has twice written over one million dollars of life insurance annually, earning him qualifying and repeating membership in the industry's Million Dollar Round Table. 
In 1962, Ray was awarded the Chartered Life Undcnvriter (CLU) designation of the American College of Life Underwriters. .-\t present, he is a state director and past president of the Northeastern Wisconsin .-Vssociation of Life Undcnvritcrs and ser\cs on the Legislative Advisory Committee of the Wis­consin Insurance Department. 
Holding a BA degree from St. Norberl College, he earned his M.-\ in 1956 at Notre Dame. In a recent poll of the Green Bay Club, he was voted "ND Man of the Year." 

^ Ray, whose column appears regularly in the Green Bay Register, is immediate president of the Green Bay Montessori Society. He and his wife Joan have six children and live at 816 Ridgrway Bnutevard in Dc Pere. 
Idaho 

The Notre Dame Club of Idaho held its annual summer picnic this year at the Snake River Trout Ranch in Buhl, Idaho. This is the largest trout ranch in the world, located six miles north of Buhl, Idaho. Surrounded by beautiful scenic splendor at the base of a lava wall in the famous Snake River Canyon, its "1,000 Springs'* Rainbow Trout are shipped throughout North .America. This facility uses over 
60 thousand gallons of spring water per minute. 
.Attending this ycar*s outing were alumni and 
friends from throughout Southern Idaho. A delicious 
barbecue of these famous trout was provided by our 
gracious hosu, Mr. & Mrs. BOB ERKINS *47. A 
full day of golfing, swimming and fishing was en­
joyed by all. 
The new* officers for tliis coming year are as 
follows: President & Trcas,, FRANCIS H. HICKS 
LLB'49; Vice-Prcs. & Secy., GERALD M. JONES 
BSC'57. 
—PAUL M. KOHOUT '59, Past Prcs. 
Indianapolis 
Since our last writing our Club has enjoyed many 
actirities which have provided us with outstanding 
recreation and fun. 
A late June evening at McNamara Farm provided 
the setting for the largest Annual Beer Bust crowd 
tfver to assemble in our fair city. Chairman DICK 
McNAMARA made the arrangements and is still 
wondering where all the hamburgers went. Rumor 
has it that the two chefs, BILL S.AHM '51 and 
JOE BILL '56, demolished onC'third of the supplies. 
On July 9, 1964, another record crowd attended 
the Annual GoH Outing held at Highland Counlrv 
Club. FRANCIS QUINN '42 and LEO BARN­
HORST '49 were commended for their efforts in 
making this the success it was. Our master of cere­
monies was MIKE .AHERN '60, and wc had an array 
"f interesting speakers, among them FR. TOM 
BRENNAN and Basketball Coach JOHN DEE. 
On Sept. 22 "MOOSE" KRAUSE was the featured speaker at a dinner meeting designed to give us information on the new Athletic and Convocation Center and to emphasize the importance of that structure in Challenge II. A "hard core" group chairmanntd by BOB WELCH '50 pledged 5127,000 that night. 
The same week, on Sept. 25, our annual Scholar­ship Ball was held at the Athletic Club from 9:30 to 12:30?? JOE FITZGERALD '44 and ED FIL­LENWARTH JR. '61 did a magnificent job. 
NEWS FLASHES: THOMAS P. CARNEY '37 had to resign as president of our Club to take a position at G. D. Searlc Co. Chicago's gain; our loss. 
To honor the memory of a great Notre Dame man, WILLIAM F. FOX JR., The Indianapolis News has arranged and set up four, four-year scholarships per year at ND. 
Nfore anon. 
—JOSEPH G. BILL, JR. '56, Secy. 
Jersey Shore 
Election of officers and a freshman send-off were combined at a meeting held in .Asbury Park, Sept. 9. 
The new officers are: RAYMOND M. TIERNEY JR. 
'54, president; EDWIN L. VOLL JR. '48, vice-
president; PETER N. BELMONT '44, secretary; and 
CHARLES J. KELLER *34, treasurer. 
Also at the meeting, GEORGE J. BARISCILLO 

JR. '44, president of the Oub since it was chartered 
two years ago, and RICHARD J. BYRNE '52 were 

elected to three-year terms as trustees. Dr.JAMES 
F. DOUGHERTY '46 and JOHN B. WHITE '45 were elected for two years. These join WILLIAM BRUNO '37 and Dr. GEORGE J. McDONNELL '29, whose terms have one year remaining. 

First major event of the club's program was *^MOOSE" KRAUSE Night Oct. 29 in Red Bank, "Moose" told club members about the University's plans for the new Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Kansas City 
The events of the last three months have been 

many and varied. 
On Oct. 7 a dinner was held honoring ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE, who spoke on the Athletic and Convocation Center, a part of Challenge D. In addition the dinner, co-arranged fay BILL UNGASHICK '43 and ED REARDON '37, feattired JIM SCHAAF '59, publicity director of the Kansas City Athletics; HANK STRAM, head coach oE the Kansas City Chiefs; and BILL WALSH '49, line coach of the Chiefs. 
Oct, 9 was the departure date set for a trip to the Notie Dame-Air Force Academy football ^xmc —a trip planned by JIM HIGGINS '53 on which nearly 120 persons from Kansas City were joined by 160 more in Salina, Kan., and taken to the game in Colorado Springs. The trip included a visit to t^vo exceptional events hosted by the Denver Club, a pregame cocktail party and a postgame dance. 
November was a month for the Auxiliary. On the 10th the ladies held a luncheon featuring the 1964 Mrs. Missouri, Mrs. JAlhfES ANDERSON, as speaker. 
Universal Notre Dome Communioa Stmday, planned by LARRY UROY '50 and held Dec. 6, was expected to be very well attended and Included a small breakfast after Mass. 
—MICHAEL J. HOGAN '56, Secy. 

Kentucky 
The Club's summer social season got into ful) swing with the annual June Dinner Meeting, July 18 at Hasenour's. Co-chairmen BOB HUETZ '58^ and BOB ECKLAND '58 provided an entertaining evening for 55 alumni and students. The eight new freshmen from the Loiusinlte area and their dads were the special guests of the Club. Father Jeremiah Smith, O.F.M., head of the history department at Bcllarminc College spoke to the gathering on *'Thc 
HOUSTON —Club President Bob Dillon '48 (center) and Head Coach Ara Puscghian 
(left) presented the ND Man-of-the<Ycar Award to Jimmy Yoiu^ *39 at the Houston Club's Universal Notre Dame Night Banquet. (Houston Chronicle Photo) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 23 
^^ 
- ••:v'^t 

LOS ANGELES — Coach Ara Parseghian was a guest on Challenge II Night in L.A. At left he converses with Club President Bob Gervais (center) and National Director Mort Goodman. At right (l.-r., seated) arc Jerry Cowhig, John Wallace, Ara, Joe Thesing and (foreground) Steve Finan. (I,-r., standing) Bill Leeds, Jim Martin, Alex Shcllog, Jim Gillis, Joe McMahon and Bob Kelley. Coach Parscghian returned in December under sadder circumstances for a loss to Southern California. 
Expanding Role of the Layman in the Church." JACK MUELLER '52 won tlic door prize—two tickets to the Micliigan State football game. 
Tlic Notre Damc-XavJcr outing, held at Bcllarmine College on July 22, was another smash success, this one ably managed by cliairman JIM HECK '48, who was aided by chief advertising script writer LEE STEIDEN '51. The Notre Dame softball eleven, led by Most Valuable Player FRED SPATZ '62 and assisted by RAY NOLAN, JIM WARREN '48, JIM HE.\NESSEy '51, ED SCHXURR '62, JIM PAD­GETT *50, BOB ROSS and a host of other green-shirts, held off a determined late Jnning Xavier rally. The final score, 12 to II, assured Notre Dame possession of the "J"S" for the third straight year. Well done, Irish, the age of athletic excellence has returned! (Ara, take iiote!!) Tliis affair also pro­vided the opportunity for the Club to present CARL RATTERMAN '37 and RON MAZZOLI '54, the two roost recent Club presidents, with silver trays in appreciation for their service. Other loyal members seen gathered around the various tables (beverage, food and card, in that order!) were JACK BARRETT '47, JIM CARRICO '35. JOE DONALDSON '23, BERNIE and JOE BOWLING '44 and '52, and more, too numerous to mention. 
Not wishing to ignore the religious development of the Club, BILL REISERT, JR. '30 was appointed chairman of a Communion Breakfast held September J3. A small but remarkably wide awake group braved the early morning hours for Mass at St. Mary* Magdalen Church and the breakfast that followed at the Holiday Inn. 
Tlic pro championship game trip rafile, handled again this year by ROG HUTER '40, will just about be to the drawing stage by the time this edition hits the street, so if any of you guys arc still hatcliing some of those chances, get out and sell 'em by December 21st. . . . The Kentucky Club needs to get back in the scholarship business, and this rafHe is our best bet, so let's hustle'! 
See y'all at the ND-Kcntucky basketball game. 
—JACK ZUFELT '57, Seo". 
Lansing 
The Notre Dame Club of Lansing held its annual Stag Smoker on Friday, Nov. 6. CLEM McFARLANE was host in his diggings on ^Velling­toa Road. Clubbers gathered hoping to meet suc^ new alumni as LEE MICHAEL, TOM ROPERS, DON SCHERPEREEL, BILL DOTTER>VEICH, BILL JERRY DURLAK and JESSE JOLLY. 
The principal objective, of course, was to select the luckv winner of four tickets plus expenses to the ND-ilSU game on Nov. 14. DR. PAT NAK­POOR was in charge of distributing the chances, principal source of revenue for defraying expenses for deficit events throughout the year. Besides helping with tickets, DICK ALFES handled pro­motion for the Smoker. 
Uhigh Valley 
The l9Si officers of the Lehigh Valley Club are as follo^ra: President, JA.\fES FUNARI *50, Allen­town, Pa.; Vice-President, TOM E. AMGILL *55, Allcntown, Pa.; Secretarv, DAVID E. NOLAN '55, AlIento^%-n, Pa.; and Treasurer, BOB G. STRALEY '53, Bethlehem, Pa. 
—ERCOLE SPINOSA '57, Retiring Seo*. 
Los Angeles 
As a result of discussions held over the last several months, ft was decided to combine the Los Angeles and Long Beach Clubs. A reorganization resolution was presented to the memberships of both clubs and was accepted almost unanimously by mail and meeting vote. Efforts to include the San Gabriel Valley and San Fernando Valley Clubs In this reorganization have to date failed. The San Gabriel Club has not been too active since the Clubs split four years ago; consequently, the more active members are interested in this reorganization and indicated a desire (o become active in the com­bined Los Angeles and Long Beach Club. It was also mutually agreed that the Orange County Club remain a separate entity for geographical reasons, and an excellent rapport and working agreements now exist between the Orange County and the combined Club. 
On June 22, a general membership meeting was called for the purpost-s of reorganization and elec­tions. Tlic attendance wzs surprisingly good, and the following election results partially reflect the organization. Officers were elected for a term of two years. 
President: nominees were BOB GERVAIS '55 (formerly president of the L.A. Club), TO.M POUXRS '56 (formeriy director of the L.A. Club) and BEN SALV.ATY '32 (formerly president of the San Gabriel Club), Bob Gervais \>*as elected; Vice-President for University .Affairs, ED FOX '55 (formerly vice-president of the L.A. Club); Vice-President for Club Affairs. TOM CREHAN '57 (formerly vice-president of the L.B. Club); Sec­retary-, TOM POWERS '56 (formeriy director of the L.A. Club but an Orange County resident); and Treasurer, GENE CALHOUN '33 (formerly sec>*.-trcas. of the L.A. Club). 
Nine directors were also elected, three who have been graduated longer than twenty years, and six less than twenty year^j. Directors graduated more than 20 years (parentheses refer to term of ofHce); FR.ANK CONATY '43 (3 vears), formerly presi­dent of the L.B. Club; BILL DILLHOFFER '42 (2 years), San Gabriel Valley resident; and BEN SALV.ATY '32 (1 year), former president of the San Gabriel Valley Club. Directors graduated less than 20 years: JACK STEWART '59 (3 years), formerly Los Angeles Club; PAUL RIGALI '48 (3 years), formerly Long Beach Club; JOSE ALEX­ANDER '62 (2 years), formerly Los Angeles Club; JIM GILLIS '51 (2 years), formerly San Fer­nando Valley Club; Pat KEARNS '55 (I year). 
formerly Long Beach Club; and MIKE MURPHV 
'60 (1 year), formerly Long Beach Club. Honorary-
President: MORT GOODNLW '30. 
A board meeting %%as held on July 20 to adopt a new constitution and to further implement the reorganization. Subsequent mailings announced a \*aried scliedule of events for the coming year and complete details of massive preparations for the ND-Southem Cal weekend. 
—BOB GERVAIS, Prcs. 

Moine 
The Notre Dame .-Mumni Association of Mainc^ gathered at a family picnic on Saturday, Aug. 29. " This picnic was held at Camp Sebaik at North Sebago, Me., a camp run by the Holy Cross Fathers, 

It was a gala affair with some nine alumni, four students, and one prospective student there, along with w-ives, girl friends, and an assorted group of children. Boating, swimming, baseball, horseshoes, as well as track events, made for a very active and popular day. 
The meeting held in conjunction \vith the outini; pointed out that the Notre Dame Scholarship Fund had reached a new high of 52,100 and two g""'*^ were made to necdv boys for the coming year. 
FR. LEN COLLINS CSC of the University was there to give us encouragement for the football season and give us our warm greetings from the Universlt>'. M 

All the alumni present and those not there through letter were asked to contribute especially to the University Foundation Fund, and through this letter It Is hoped that there will be no Maine alumnus who will fail In this duty to his University. As I meniioncd at the meeting, it h not the size of the gift but the fact that a gift does come from each Maine man. We are small in number, but we feel that we have added zip that many other clubs, because they are large and cumber­some, do not have. 
In the election of officers for the coming year, the same slate of officers was elected to a second term: J. PAUL SCULLY, president; ,\NTHONY 

W. SILVA, ncc-president; DONALD C. GRIEVE^ 
treasurer; and Rr\YMOND A. GEIGER, sccretar>-. g> —RAY GEIGER, Secy." 
McHeniy County 
Our Notre Dame Club of McHenry County, III-, sponsored a golf outing at Cr>-stal Lake Country-Club on Thursday, July 16, attended by nineteen members and guests. DONALD C. FREUND of Crystal Lake, the retiring president of the Club, served as chairman. 
-At the business portion of the meeting, two new directors were elected: GEORGE K. COS­TELLO of Cr>stal Lake, and JOSEPH A. CON­ERTY, JR., of \Voodstock. The directors then met and elected their officers for the year: 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End, 1964 
THOMAS J. PARSLEV ol Crystal Lake, presi­dent; ^VILLIAM J. RILEY, JR. of Crjstal Uke, vice-president; JOSEPH A. CONERTY, JR. of 
^Woodstock, secretary; and JOHN ORSO of Cn-stal Lake, treasurer. 
The Notre Dame men who were in attendance at the golf outing were as follows: BILL RILEY, JR., TO.M PARSLEY, JOE CONERTY, JR., JOHN ORSO, Judge HILLIAM M. CARROLL, BILL CARROLL, JR., DON FREUND, TOM HARDING, BILL-BILL RILEY, GEORGE COS­TELLO. JOHN COSTELLO and PHIL RILEY. .Among the guests u-rre: Tubby Simonini. Steve Zoll. Joe Conerty Sr., Rudy Schucssler, Ed Stare. Jack Peck and Bill Caldwell. 
—JOSEPH A. CONERTY, JR., Secy. 
Miami 
I. I. PROBST emcced the annual Fallicr-Son Dinner for the new students starting this fall at Notre Dame. 
It was noted that CHARLIE MAHER '33, past president, attended with his son, Charlie Maher, who will be a freshman this year. 
The October meeting set up the plans for the .-\nnu3l Communion Breakfast, which will be held Sunday, Dec. 13, and for which DONALD MUR­RAY '57 ad%'iscd the program b all set. JACK CANANE, BOB HALPIN and RAY POPP have started the planning for the affair the Club will have in conjunction with the Miami-XD game 

§ in 1963. WILLIAM WELSH, DICK S.\DO\VSKI and GEORGE KENN.ARD have been named co­hnlders nf the billiard championship for 19&4. 
—ROBERT I. PROBST, IVes. 
Michigan City 
The Club sponsored a bus trip to the ND-Wisconsin same in Madison, Wis., Sept. 2G, 1964. LEON D.\RGIS handled arrangements for the trip, whidi included game ticket, bus and an evening smorgasbord at the Wagon Wheel in Rocton, III. 
Milwaukee 

U.MVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT m The delightful Cafe Rouge of the Hotel PBster W was the setting for this year's Universal Notre Dame 
Night. Dean Norman R. Gay of the College of En­ginceiing brought the guests up to date on the ph>.5tcal cltanges of the campus, as well as discussing Notre Dame's concept of education both locally and throughout the world. 
\VILLIAM G. DOUCETTE '43 was a very sur­prised individual when he heard himself named as Milw^aukee's 1964 Man of the Year. No one is more deserving, Billl Congratulations arc also in order for RON BUKOWSKI '60, who won the race against the clock in putting together a 5nc program. 
Notre Darners in attendance were: JOHN LIN­NEHAN '40, DAVE ROE.MER '59, BOB HART­MAN '41, TOM HUBER '51, FRANK E.\TON '30. TOM and BOB ROLFS ('44 & '30 respccUvely). 

^ six Baumgartners (not in our directory), .^L MOT­
' ZEL, CHARLES DESCH '51, CHARLES O'NEILL '27, TOM MULCAHV '37. JI.M BARRY '33. BILL MALANEY '41, JACK WILKINSON '31. RON BUKOWSKI '60, ROGER BRAUN '33. DICK EHR '34, JOHN SCHLOEGEL '54. PHIL VOGEL '3S. and BOB FLANNERY '48. 
GOLF OUTISG, A WET SUCCESS 
An amazing number of Milwaukee alunnii own "waders," a fact proven by the great number who braved a torrential day-long downpour 10 propel that "thing" all over the countryside. "MOOSE" KRAUSE didn't have "waders" but showed mar­velous proliciency in the use of a canoe paddle and beat the rest of the sailors in. Inside the Tuckaway Country Club Clubhouse it was cards, drink, won­

• derful food, drink, "Ntoosc" Krausc. drink. DAVE HURD, drink, CHUCK LENNON, drink. DON "MONEY BAGS" ROSS, drink, drink, drink. (The gentlemen w.cre somewhat thirsty after the arduous day. but after Ross. oU my!) 
This was'Prcs. T. MULCAHY's special event and it svas the usual bang-up job. Notre Damers in at­tendance were: CHRIS MONOHAN, TOM HER-Mi«r '37, EVERHART SCHLECK '48. BOB RAAF, GENE SCHUMACHER '42, WALT BAR­BER, BOB FLANNERY '48, BILL DOUCETTE '43, BOB CLEMENCY '31, TOM HUBER '51, BILL MALANEY '41, JOHN SNYDER '30, TOM SNYDER '31, CHARLES DESCH '51, HUGO CHERUBINI, ED LEE '34, JOHN CARR, TOM MILLER '62, NED BALDUS '59, DAVE ROE­
NEW YORK—Representing the University 
and New York Club in welcoming Vice-
Presidential Candidate Bill Miller '35 
(left) to Manhattan was Bill Fallon '37 
o( New Rochellc, former Alumni Assn. 
vice-president. Miller was speaker at 
a luncheon given by the New York Mets 
for members of the Touchdown Club. 
.\I£R '39. TO.M 0'.ME.A»A, TOM ROLFS *44. .MIKE ENGLEBRECHT, ED CHOINSKI, TOM OSBERGER '30, DO.N DANIELS, JOHN CLAUD­ER '34, BOB MILLER '39, ROGER BR,\UN 
•33.
 TOM CARTER '30. SIG OSTERKORN, AL HIJSHEK, FR.ANK HUSHEK '48, JOHN HICK­F.Y, DICK HOY '49. JIM BRE.NN,\N '31, TERRY BRE.\NAN '49. TOM MULCVHY '37. TERRY CVHILL, WARREN a\HILL , HARRY TROY '30. JERRY CHERUBINI, MIKE DOUCETTE, KE.N ACKER, HUGH BRAUN "33. JERRY GENOVESE 

•38,
 DAN COLLINS, ROGER L.\UR '59, LEWIS TROY, RICK GRIMLER '39, JOHN SCHLOEGEL 

•34.
 BOB LUICK, JOHN PRENTICE '36. and BOB HARTMAN '41. 


NEW OFFICERS The new ofUcer^ for 'frl-'Gj are: President. TOM MULCAHY '57; \'ice-l'resident, JOHN SCHLOE­GEL '54; Treasurer, RICHARD EHR '34: and Secretary, DAVE ROEMER '39. The "chiefs" have set three goals for themselves: (1) build up the treasury; (2) produce a supplement to the directory; and (3) please their "patrons." In addition the V-P has been given the primarv- responsibility of tickets and the telephoning committee. The officers felt that the past year's schedule was a bit crowded and con­sequently eliminated the January. Sports Night. Lastly, from the crowd of volunteers the following were selected to chairman this vear's events; JOHN SCHLOEGEL (Fall Smoker).' D.Wt. MURPm" (Christmas Dance), KEN TRUDE.AU (Communion Breakfast), PHIL O'VOGEL (Saint Patrick's Day 
Party), NED BALDUS (Universal Notre Dame 
Night), and TOM MULCAHY (Golf Outing — 
again). 
—DAVE ROEMER '59, Secy. 
Nashville 
We received a letter from JIM ARMSTRONG 
informing us that our application had been ap­
proved. .Also had a letter from BRO. C30NAN, 
and we have ordered a pennant. So we are rolling 
and looking forward to a big year for the Notre 
Dame Club of Nashville. 
Our next get-together was planned for .Vovember 
10 to form committees and decide on our program 
for 1965. Then on December 26 we will have a 
Christmas Dance for alumni and students at the 
Officers Club here at Sewart .AFB. Cocktails will 
start at 7 p.m. The cocktail hour wilt be followed 
by dinner and dancing in the Main Ballroom. Wc 
anticipate a good turnout for what might be called 
our first "official" function. 
Officers for 1964.63 are: JAMES C. GREEN­
WELL, JR. '54, pres.; CHARLES F. SPICKA '34, 
vice-pres.; NICK VARALLO, JR. '63, secy-U^as.; 
and FR. JOHN HENRICK MA '57, chaplain. 
—CHARLES F. SPICKA, Vice-Pres. 
New York 
On June 4 GORDON FORESTER chaired the 
,.\nnual Golf Outing at The Brookville C.C. on 
Long Island. The weather, food, refreshments 
and 60 members and guests combined to make this 
a delightful day. 
BERNIE CONNOR arranged for the .Annual 
Family Baseball Night at beautiful Shea Stadium. 
Well over 100 alumni, children, wives and friends 
were on hand to watch the Mets and Phillies play 
a pair. Despite a double loss to the Phillies, every­
body agreed this was a gala night — excellent seats, 
two fine ball games, wonderful hospitality and 
atmosphere — and a chance to meet with old 
friends. 
JOHN McN.AMARA initiated the fall program as chairman and host of the annual Father-Son Freshman Smoker at the Waldorf on Sept. II. Over 250 fathers and sons were on hand to hear John's wit and wisdom and to listen to ND's JIM GIBBONS give the incoming freshmen the **word" on life at ND. CASS VANCE, BILL F.ALLON and ED FITZPATRICK helped writh the arrange­ments, and Pres. GUS HARDART ivelcomed the group. The combination of John's able MC'ing and Jim's eloquent picture of ND gave this impor­tant Club affair a new luster. 

HARVXY FOSTER took charge and produced a great Kick Off Night at the Waldorf on Sept. 23. Feature of the night w.as a "hot line to AR.A P.ARSEGHIAN," a direct telephone hookup to the campus, with Murray Robinson, Well-known sports writer, handling the NY' end. .Am came through loud and dear, handled the questions with himior, sincerity and honesty . . . and created the impres­sion that things are looking better for the Fighting Irish. BOB WILKIE shared the dais with Mur­ray, and AL PERRINE brought the Club up to date oil the status of Challenge II. TOM BRAD­LEY, -JOHN BURNS, CASS VANCE, ED FFTZ­PATRICK, BILL CUDDY and Pres. GUS HAR­DART, by now a polished keynoter, aided Hari'ey w'ith the program. 
BUD MULVEY, assisted by FRANK FEE III, 

OHIO VALLEY —Sununer picnic at Wheeling Park included. (l.-r.) Jim Dailer '50, Tom Sessi '64, Bill Chesson '58, Ray Keys '49, Bob Dyer '53, Russ Rickus '34, Jim Baker '64, Dave \Vhitaker '39, Bob Smcavich '30, Joe Sa^iis '49, Walt Baigeron '64, Bill Chesson Sr. (father of Bill Jr. '58), Dick Harvey '33, Frank Wallace, '23, Bill Mitsch '33 and Bill Hogan '51. Club ccnteis in Wheeling, W.Va. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 25 
PETE BISCONTI, PAT KENNEALLY and BILL FALLON, arranged a package trip to Philadelphia to see ND and Na^y have their annual **go.*' Preliminary reports indicated a good turnout for the trip, a ^%*dcome biennial affair for many of the Eastern Clubs who join %vith XY for this event. —BILL MURPHY '38, Seo'. 
Ohio Valley 
A stag picnic w-as held on June 28 at Wheeling Park. A feature of the picnic was a softball game between the Steubcnville, Ohio, and Wheeling, 
W. Va., members of the club (Steubcnville won). 
The following attended: FRANCIS WALLACE '23, BILL MITSCH *33, RUSS RICKUS '34, LOU YAEGER '35, JOE SARGUS '49, RAY KEYS '49, BOB SINaWICH '50, JIM DAILER '50, BILL HOGAN '51 (chairman), DICK HARVEY '53, BOB DYER '53, BILL CHESSON, JR. '58, DA\T WHITAKER '59, TOM SESSI '64, JIM BAKER '64, WALT BARGERON '64 and Bill Chesson. Sr. (father of Bill Chesson '58). 
A meeting was held on Sept. 30 at tlie Caddy Camp in Oglebay Park. A feature of the evening was movies and color slides of the ND campus and the softball game at the club's summer pic­nic. Plans were made for a TV party to \-iew the XD-Michigan State game, an excursion to see the ND-Pitt game, a Communion Breakfast and a football banquet. 
—BILL NflTSCH '33, Secy-Treas. 
Oklahoma City 
Some of the members made the journey to Colo­rado Springs to cheer the ND football team on to \-ictory over Air Force on Oct. 10, *64. 
We again planned a TV Party to watch the ND-Mich. State game. No chairman had been selected at this writing. 
In December the Club again begins the most active period. The Communion Breakfast has been tentatively set for Sunday, Dec 6, '64, with BOB DOLAN '55 as chairman. The Christmas Dance is scheduled for Dec 28 under the able direction of Dr. ALBERT DRESCHER '38. 
The monthly meetings are still held on the last Wednesday of each month at the *89ers Motel at 
12:15 pm. All new members or \*isitors in the city at the time of the meetings are encouraged to attend. 
—JOHN A. HOBBS, Scc>'. 
Orange County 
The Notre Dame-Michigan State Color TV Stag Party was held Saturday^ Nov. 14, at 323 Almira, Fullerton. 
TTie game was received on Color TV starting at 10:30. However, there was a short business meeting starting at 9:45 am to discuss the Club's participation during the SC-ND i%*eekcnd, December Family Communion Breakfast, and plans for the Orange County Annual Notre Dame Night. Tenta­tive plans for the SC-ND weekend called for the team attending Mass at 11 am in Fullerton, "Brunch" after Mass at Disneyland, and a cock­tail party from 2-4 pm In the Oak Room of the Disneyland Hotel, sponsored by the Orange Count>' Club. In addition, Disneyland invited the team to the park Sunday afternoon. 
—TOM GETZINGER, Pres. 
Peoria 

The Notre Dame Club of Peoria parlayed a sure­fire daily double combination and came up with a most successful Fourth Annual Back-to-Scbool Din­ner on Tliursday, Sept. 17, at Vonachen's Junction. ED "MOOSE'* KRAUSE, director of athletics at Notre Dame, capped a busy day of talking Notre Dame with Peoriarca radio, TV, and newsmen with a stirring talk about Notre Dame's d>"namic plans for the future and the great new Athletic and Convocation Center. The presentation of the Third Annual Lt. JAMES A. CASSIDY Memorial Award for .Academic Achievement was made to a Peoria area undergraduate student at Notre Dame; not announced until it was presented by Krausc and Chairman JOHN MANION, the 1964 winner was Mclvin J. Sicks, a sophomore in engineering's architecture dcpt. He received a Notre Dame plaque 
and a $25 U.S. Saving Bond. 
Krause immediately put the alumni-fathcr-son ^thering at case with the promise that be was not 
•going to personally pass the hat — nor ^vaj his «ide-kick on the trip, DENNIS TROESTER, assist­
25 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 2964 
PEORIA — Back-to-School Dinner featured (from left) architecttire soph McK*in J. Sieks receiving the Lt. James A. Gassidy Memorial Award for Academic Excellence (plus a $25 US bond) from sponsor John E. Cassidy Sr., as guest speaker Ed Krausc and event chairman John Manion joined in the congrattdations on Sept 17. (Photo courtesy of the Peoria Journal Star.) 
ant director of the Notre Dame Foundation. Instead, they presented a really fine film depicting Notre Dame's historic growth its energetic present, and a dynamic future — evolving around the present suc­cess of the Challenge II Program. Moo5e*s per­sonal enthusiasm concerning the University in general, and the Athletic and Convocation Center specifically, capti\'ated the audience. 
Philadelphia 
All energies of the Philadelphia Club, as a new Club year started, were devoted to making the weekend of the Nax'y game here one long to be remembered. JOHN F. MOORHE.^D '49, ener­getic chairman of the Navy weekend program* set up a ^ant Pep Rally for Friday night, Oct. 30, and a postgame cocktail party, followed by a buffet dinner, for Oct. 31 . . . all at the Ben Franklin Hotel. He arranged chartered buses from the hotel to John F. Kennedy Stadium and reserved practically the entire hotel for the expected influx of alumni and friends. He sent invitations to all alumni clubs east of the Appalachians, and a few others, to join Philadelphia in a rousing xvelcome to the resurgeat football team. 
PHILADELPHIA—A weddmg at the Navy base was the occasion of an unusual reunion of these contemporaries: (I.-r.) Charles A. Conley *33 of the Philly 
Qub; Capt Robert E. Lee Jr. USN '32, whose daughter Barbara was married; and Bob*s brother, Maurice '33, Chicago. 
The new year at Philadelphia got under way 
witb a Bon Vo>'age partyl Students from the 
Philadelphia area and their parents and friends 
were inWted to join the alumni for a moonlighM 

cnuse on the Dclai%-arc River in the luxuriou" 
"Showboat." President CARMEN lANDOLLO of 
the Philadelphia campus club headed a large group 
of students, who not only had a grand time be­

fore heading back to school, but made the cvenint; 
memorable for the rest of us. Chairman JOHN F. 
VOIT '51, was given a rousing vote of thanks for 

a swell time and promptly appointed by President 
JIM LEYDON to start work on the third annual 
cruise next September 10. 
Philadelphia alumni and their wives are looking 
fonvard to the annual Communion Breakfast De­
cember 6. FRANK SPANIEL '50, who nut on 

such a splendid affair last December, is handling 
the party once again. He hopes to have a mcm-^ 

bcr of the football coaching staff present to mect^ 
the winner of the Knute Rockne ifemorial Au-ard. 
given annually to the outstanding high school 
football player of the Delaware Valley. The break­
fast ^rill be at the Hotel Warwick. 
—JAMES T. GALLAGHER, Secy. 

Pittsburgh 
The Annual Golf and Dinner Party was held on 

Friday, Aug. 28, l96i, at the Pituburgh Field 
Club. Golf Greats attending included JOE 
TUCKER, HARRY STUHLDREHER. and JOE 
GASPARELLA. 
This was one of the highlights of the Pitts-^ 

biurgh Notre Dame Club's yearly calendar at one 
of the country's finest courses — a real experience. 
We arranged for golf, dinner and gratuities at a 
total price of $15.00, certainly a cost comparable 
to clubs with less facilities. Beverages, of course, 
were available for those seeking immediate therapy 
for their \"arious golfing ills. Non-golfers were urged 
to attend the dinner. Golfers were asked to make 
up their own foursome (non-alumni most welcome) 
or check in at the locker room with Dan Begg>\ 
Bob Jacob, and Jerry Travis who were prepared 
to help you find a game. 
A special attraction was the showing of a beau­

tiful color film of the 19&f Masters Tournament. 
We hoped new Notre Dame residents in the Pitts­
burgh Area would take this occasion to become 
acquainted. 
The Pregamc Rally for the exciting Notre Dame-M 

Ktt game was held on Nov. 6, 1964 at the Webster " 
Hall Hotel, Oakland, Pa. 
We could come out of hiding this year, since our 

tootball team manifested a great deal of proficiency. 
To do our share in paying tribute to the ivelcome 
change, the Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh ar­
ranged for a gala Pregame Rally on Friday eve­
ning, prior to the game with the Pitt Panthers. 
Chairman JOE GASPARELLA and his Co-chair­
men BERNIE PO^VERS and ED FAY arranged a 
truly fine affair. 
There were a number of Notre Dame celebrities 

present. JOHNNY RAY, who has done such an 
outstanding job as defensive coach, promised to 
say a few words. MOOSE KRAUSE, basking in 
the old-time spirit at NT>, was here. So were 
Jim Gibbons and Jim Morse, the broadcasters. ^ 
and many others. 
A musical organization of high repute (not the Beatles] furnished entertainment and dance music. This indicates that the affair was definitely for men and \%-omen. In the event that the speakers and the orchestra failed to inspire a spirited eve­ning, a beverage bar was located unobtrusively but conveniently on the premises. 
Rochester 
Our annual Family Picnic W2S held on July 18 and wonderfully directed by JOHN GLrWIN '58. The parents of the some twenty-five families pres­ent arc still wondering how John was able to keep ^ almost fifty kiddies occupied in fun and games with only 100 pennies. DICK KLEE '47. ROY HANNA '52, and JOHN CASEY '55 sur^^ved even after setting up the coolers and "guarding" them for three hours prior to picnic time. 
Family activities included listening to BOB DEWEVs '52 reunion stories and how everything was free except the $25 reunion hat. The ball game was close — close to exhausting the fathers. REG '37 and ARNIE '35 MORRISON co-captained the winning team. "SCOOTER" DE SIMON '46 u-as outstanding at 2nd. Daisy pickers included ED SCHICKLER '55, JIM DOYLE *54, "Never Miss" LEO WESLEY '49, and ERIC SCOTT, Rounding out the rest of the lineups I recall 
DAVE MILLER '55, PAUL PARKER '49, JOHN McCRANK '58, BILL O'CONNELL '50, ED YO­HON '55 and JOHN DELLA VILLA 
"% A good time was enjoyed by all, and yours truly made a sincere effort to log in all the families present. I stopped writing down names when I saw two JACK NYE DUFFEY's '35 coming at me topped with LBJ-typc straw hats. 
Congratulations and best wishes to JIM GALE­HOUSE '57 in his new assignment as resident manager of Xerox's first machine manufacturing facility outside the Rochester area. Jim will be relocating in the Norlhvalc, N.J., area. 
The Notre Dame Retreat House in Rochester was the scene of our August Freshman Orientation for I9M. JACK NYE DUFFEY '35, REG MOR­RISON, our president, and BILL BELL "gave 

»th e word" to twelve incoming frosh and their parents. Excellent refreshments were prepared and served by the gracious ladies of our Notre Dame Women's Organization. By the way, we're all looking forward to the "Christmas Gala" that the girls are organizing this year. 
Our annual "Fall Dance" was early, on August 
28. The Island Cottage Party House decor was accentuated by water filled balloons designed by the "prankster" chairman, ARXIE MORRISON '35, and his brother Reg. There to lend a hand in instigating the various showers of the evening were Messrs. and Mmes. JOHN ANDREW '36. JOHN DELLA VILLA, BOB DEWEY, J.\CK DUFFEY, ROY HANNA, JOHN MILLER, BILL REEVES, RON 2LOTNIK, and equally as many 

^guests and students with their lovely dates, Zani Patban and his band were especially good even after the excellent midnight buffet served to all present. 
—GENE YURGEALITIS '37, Secv-. 
Rock River Valley 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Rock River Valley has had a recent election and the new officers arc as follows: President, PAUL L. BERRETTINI '56: Vice-President, THOMAS KAVADAS 'Gl; Treas­urer, RAY DeCOURCEV '23; and Secretary, PATRICK R. JONES '56. 
I am sure the new officers will be an excellent asset to our local group and to the University. —LUKE R. MORIN, Retiring Pres. 
Rome, Italy 
-VOTRE DA.ME HOSPITALITY CENTER IS OPEN EVERY DAY ALL DAY. ADDRESS: LARGO BRANCACCIO 82. TEL: 730.002. ALL .\RE WELCOME. 
Most recent arrivals for local membership: MICHAEL O'BRIEN B.A '62, MS '65, who joins the faculty of Notre Dame International School; and 2nd Lt. RICHARD E. LUDWIG '63, Aviano Air­base. For some months we had VICTOR EM­M.\NUEL '63, working with an advertising agency*. 

Month-long member: JOHN HOWETT, curator of the ND Art Galler>', with wife and three "pic-I coli" but pioneering daughters as John researched 
in Vatican Librar>-. 
On The Fringe ND Family -Members: ND's first Sophomore Year Abroad contingent in Innsbruck, .Austria, mentored by FR. THOMAS ENGLETON CSC and PROF. LOUIS HASLEY. Responding to the tragic death of one of the students, MICHAEL LEAHY '67, which happened in Northern Italy, the alumni of Italy arranged for a Mass in Rome. 
SUMMER PARADE: Prof, and Mrs. ROBERT LEADER, art dept.; PAUL HELLMUTH '40, ND Board of Trustees; MICHAEL BURKE '33. W. DAVID AMES '63, JOHN MARTINE '61, HEC­TOR FUSTER '57. and wife; DA.N DEELY '63, father of FR. BOB MALONE CSC, CLAUDE CECCON '61; VICTOR VETIORI '52, and wife Dorolhv, St. Mar>-'s '32; LT. R. T. EIFF '62. JOHN LINEHAN '61; LUIGI RUGGERI, native of Rome en route to ND for grad school; JIM FAGAN '65, RON lAGERSON '65, son of WM. RUPP '33, TONY MARRA '62, BOB FORBES '35 and wife; CARL GIOMBETTI and RAY BURKE '63; BERT HORNBACK, ND faculty; CLINT HIRST '66, cousin of FELIX BALM.^Z '63, sfatcr of ARTHUR ZIELER '67, sister of MIKE TERRY '61, BOB MOYNAHAN '34 and wife. 
ED KELLY '64, WADE CLARKE '62; BILL SCHMA, SAM MIRABITO & TOM MOR.\N '&»; JIM FARRELL '49, RUSS BLEY & BILL PENNA '64; BILL GARY, prcxy '46; SR. AMA­DEUS IHM '42, JOS. SRHOLEZ *63, PAUL RAY '65, JOHN O'GORMAN '64, TERRY 
ROCHESTER—Scholarship Chairman Charlta J. O'Brien (left) anil Club Presi­dent Reginald A. Morrison siurvey Roches­ter's new $15,000 endowment fimd, estab­lished to'provide Notre Dame scholarships for students from the Rochester, N.Y., area. 
WOLKERSTORFER 'M, TOM MORAN & GEORGE NOVAK '64, FR. K. SWEENEY *44, JOS. WADE '60; PAUL WEST, D.WE BARLOW &. DICK VON BOECKLIN '64; BILL DALTON 
•59, DAN CHMIEL '61, DICK KAVANAUGH '63; MARTY RONAN '61, son of JIM '26, brother of JIM '53, JOHN '56; FRANK PATOUT '62; PETER BROCCOLETTI, LEN KUBUSKI &. BOB STORK '64; HAROLD VERTIN '62, JOHN BART­LEY '23; FR. DENIS MORAN OEM, MA'49; Joe, son of JEROME VOGEL '36; LARRY DOYLE '66, son of LARRY '39, brother of MICKY '33 (Mother SMC circa '39); GARY HEDIGER '66, EUGENE McFADDEN '60, TOM HUGNELT '37 &. wife. 
Interesting seminarian trio: Frank Corby, mother SMC'43; Michael Place, nephew of ADAM WOLF '40; and Quinn Driscoll, nephew of BOB WOLF '46; GREG RUST '66, son of OSKAR '28, brother of BOB '32, DICK '56, nephew of RUS­SELL SCHEIDLER '31; GEORGE LENSING '62; CARMELLO VIRGILLO, ND faculty; sister of TIM BYRNE '63; KARL SCHEIL, ND faculty; CHARLES STEINER, 66, JACK DELOGE '66, ALVIN FONG-TOM '67, ROBERT PARKER MA '63, HENRY WOLTERS '30 with wife and daugh­ter; BOB LARKIN, new teacher at NDI, Rome, brother of BILL '33 & DICK '66; sister of JOE BIHN '57, sister of TOM EGAN '37, BOB TROT­TER '29 and wife; friends of BILL H.ANIGAN '67, cousin of BILL LEONARD '66, brother of PAUL SE.MPER circa '36, parents of FR. RAY LESCHER '37, KEN QUINN '60, cousin of FR. HOWARD KENNA CSC; Carrie Mitchell, daughter of MARK MITCHELL '39, sister of M.ARK '67; 
ROME: In the absence of proprietor Gus Rossi (visiting the ND campus mth wife Itala), Club Secretary Vince McAIoon 
(left) hosted Fr. Hesburgh and Mr. I. A. O'Shaughnessy on their visit to Rome's traditional Irish dining spot, the Sco­glio Di Frisio, while reporting to Pope Paul on Atoms-for-Peace meetings. 
friend of NICK RASSAS '63. CSC missionaries headed for Uganda: FRS. KAISER, FOLEY, KI­FINSKI, RAHIELY. And the first ND sophomore from the Innsbruck group, BILL RAGEN '67. 
—VINCE McALOON '34, Secy. 
Sacramento 
OlHcers of the Sacramento, Calif., XD Club are now President (Lt.) RICHARD S. SAPP '60 of Rancho Cordo%-a and Secretary FRANK GERE­MIA '60 of Sacramento. 
In April Notre Dame Night was very well at­tended by approximately 30 couples and their guests to hear Mr. Casey Conrad, a member of the President's Council of Physical Fitness. One of the many in attendance was DR. A. KUNTZ, formerly head of the department of education at ND. 
In July the annual ND picnic was held at Car­michael Park, which was gradually taken over by the alumni, tfieir wives and offspring. Among those were Helen and GIL ZIMMERMAN (pres.), Jerry and BOB BRESKA (vice-prcs.). Joining in the food and drink were Mary Ellen and JACK MULLEN '34, Marty and BILL DALEY '41, Anne and AL KAELIN *55, Arlene and DICK S.APP '60, DR. BOB DESMOND and his wife Doris. Bob is going to open up his practice in Santa Rosa. Visiting from San Mateo were SyMa and GENE MUENIER '53, who were recently transferred from Sacramento. DR. BILL BREWER, who U stationed at Mather Air Force Base outside of Sacramento, also found time to enjoy a few beers. He and his wife Helene have three children. Aug. 13 was the occasion for a goodbye party given by Ann and Al Kaetin for DENNY NOLAN '60, who is leaving his job as an aeronautical engineer at Aerojet to work as a Peace Corps member in Ethiopia. 
—CLIFFORD M. COLLINS, Retiring Secy.-Trcas. 
St. Louis 
As Christmas approaches wc have passed the mid­point of our year. Our annual Notre Dame Frosh Night was held on Sept. 10 at the home of JERRY McGLYNN '60. There the new members of our St. Louis Club — the freshmen and their fathers — had the opportunity to chat svith members of our board of directors and past presidents. 
BILL MILLER '35, visited our city in his cam­paign for the vice-presidency. Individual members of our Club whose interests paralleled candidate Miller's attended a breakfast in a body at which he spoke. Miller was introduced by AL RAVARINO '33, a classmate. 
In his Challenge II visit to St. Louis on Oct. 6, EDWARD (.MOOSE) KRAUSE '34, played golf with other members of the St, Louis Club at the Crystal Lake Country Club. Committee Chairman JOE DWYER '38, delivered a fine attendance for the Challenge 11 dinner meeting that was held at the Club that evening. Thanks to Joe for a fine job well done. 

Under the direction of past Board Chairman JIM PUDLOWSKI '34, a large group of St. Louis Club membeis and their friends, including wives, attended the Stanford game al South Bend. Jim was not sure which was more exciting, the trip or the game. That was a promise. 
Congratulations to the St. Louis Club of Notre Dame — the student affiliated club. They have been doing a fine job in providing the students an op­portunity to get together with their St. Louis friends at the campus. 
Information regarding the annual Communion Breakfast under the direction of HENRY LUEP­KE '57, will reach you soon if it has not already. 
Later in December, on the I9th, TAL POWELL '49, will spearhead the group that will present this year's Christmas Dance. Tal promises a particularly good lime. The dance will be held at the Bel Air East Motor Hotel in the Mayan Ball Room featur­ing the Jack Engler Orchestra. 
Mark Monday, Jan. 11, on your calendar. That is the evening that the Irish basketball team will play the Billikens in St. Louis. The Club will sponsor some affair in conjunction with this date. 
The writer and others in St, Louis would like to see our old friend, REV. GLENN BOARMAN CSC, revisit our city during the Christmas holidays. 
From the officers and members of the board of directors. Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to you and your family. 
—D. JERRY McGLYNN '60, Secy.-Treas. 

Solina 
The nine-member ND Club of Salina, Kan., is back in the business of promoting fantasticUIy successful football trips with the resurgence of the 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End^ 1964 27 
(T^Z/JM^ .j4li l^WsZ, U tie t^sU>^i-^ tc-tie 
INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIOff OF THE FLORIDA ND CLUB) 
O
NCE AG.MS the Notre Dame Clubs of Fort Lauderdale and the Palm Beaches anno o iheir Third .Xniiual hiicrnalional Convention. 
Continuing in the spectacular fashion established ovei the preceding two years. i Bahama Islands ha\c again been selected as the site for ne.xt year's afTair. It is nm i early to rescr\c the weekend in early May so that you can be among the select few. 1 , details are being arranged at this inoniciii. To get full particulars drop a card to the .N. • Dame Convention Headquarters. 100 East Las Olas, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and broc!. ; 4 resenation blanks, rates and liteniiure will be sent lo you by return mail. 
In case you missed last year's glorious trip, we thought you would like to see \. your friends and classmates shared in during tlieir fabulous slay at the Liicayan Beach 11 This year's plans call for 400 conventioneers. We are sure you will want to be :. ; of them. Send your reservations in now to insure your place at this great affair. 
HOSTS sho:cn above, Don Dorini '53 (iejt) and Bill Maus '53, seem to be mak­ing the best of their touiih chore: checking final arrangements with the management. 
DEPLAXISG (at lighlj f,om .\lackef< 

Qgm^
non-stop convention flight to Grand Bahama from the Florida mainland, (l.-r,) Mr, and Mrf, Bill Hickey '42, Dolly Walker, Tom Sullivan '48 and Tom Walker '42 are greeted by balmy Bahamian breezes. 

ricfe s /"T ot-v L-h<^y c^17eb D^<.\r riVK ^f A\.KC^yf£s
T 

LUC.iYAS LUAU later Friday evening (below) had eamput «ue.\ts -Moose '34 (upper left) and Elise Krause (left foreground) joining the Hickeys of Chicago and the Walkers of Fort Lauder­dale in enjoying a delightful native feast on the patio. 
LIMBO CONTEST (above) after luau -was -won by Pat Ga:i: 
with the encouragement of M, C. Jack Canane (far left) and 
her husband John Gaziano '57 and to the accompaniment of i 
Calypso music by Little Sparrow and his Steel Drum Ensemble. 
28 Xotre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
5.-irC/fi/).4r SPORTS ivere the order of the day, 
including (at left) Frank McGinn '52 zvith a prize­
zvinning catch in the popular deep-sea fishing contest and (above) four of 80 participants in the golf tourney. 
Fr, John Walsh, development veep at the University (2nd from right), teamed ivith Don Dorini to beat Will 
Greaton and Harry Lennon on the fine Lucayan course. 
jy~rMi>frHC>" tr^-xt'i* (£•«.** L'X-cvfic4:\i h7c>lti*4:\*r %*•% tlie l^ritx-?h l3»-vi4^»>-»*-\"i f-c^v *"V y-i^i»»ic: 
RELAXERS Saturday p,m. in lanai-cabana comfort included (above) Don Stacks '41, George Rudolphs '42, Paul Notvaks '38. Conventioneers at the gala US^D Xight banquet (right) ivere among 285 to enjoy celeb­rities (beloic, l.-r.) at head table: Alumni Pres. Ollie Hunter '43, Ft. Lauderdale Pres. Bob McDonough '52, Mary Hunter, Moose Ktause. Toastmaster Dan Doicney '44, Sfrs. Krause, Fr, Walsh, Marilyn McDonough, and on-scene Coordinator Frank Carey '48. 
Notre Dame Alumnus. Year End. 1964 
Fighting Imh. The Club muslcrcd 153 fans in a section which coupled with a Kansas City train (caiT>-ing about 120) to the Air Force Academy game in Colorado Springs. Oct. 10­
San Antonio 
On Aug. 30 the Club honored those returning to school u-ith a barbecue at MacArthur Park. Plans for the forthcoming school year ucrc djs­cussedf and an enjoyable time was had by all. The delicious food was prepared bv Diana and BILL. LAMM. 
Attending the Air Force Game in Colorado Springs \verc DAVID KOCUREK, LARRV KEOUGH, Judv and DON HICKS, and Capl. 
W. DELANY, Tbc main ballroom of the Fort Sam Houston OiBcers' open mess will be the site of our Christ­mas party. Dinner, cocktails, and dancing arc to be featured. A festive spirit is expected to reign 
throughout the party. —CHILTON M.WERICK, Sec>-. 
San Diego 
It has come to my attention that the alumni records have nevxr been straightened out as to the 1964 officers of the UND Club of San Diego. Calif. Herevrith a list of 19&t Club officers. I guess that ever>'one here assumed that others were doing this. 
The 196* Club officers are: President. L. DON LOPKER '35; Vice-President, MARVIN W. RICK­LING '52; Secreta^^•, CHARLES F. VANDEGRIFT '52; 2nd Secrciar>-, U'lLLUM D. HOH.MANN '56; and Treasurer. C^RL F. PETERS '55. 
—L. DON LOPKER, Prcs. 
Spokane 
The Club's annual Summer Outing took place on Sunday, Aug. 16, Once again DR. JIM ROTCH­FORD *48 and his gracious wiic Mar>* offered their hospitality at the Rotchford Cottage on beau­tiful Hayden Lake, Idaho. The weather was ideal and the following Club members, with wives, friends and children, enjoyed the outing: ED BETHKE '28, PETE HIROU '62, JIM LYNCH '40; DR. BOB &UHER '35 and his fatlier ROBERT MAHER '05, \Tsiting him from Pituburgh; JACK MICH.\UD 
•48; JOHN O'NEILL '29. RAY PENLAND '56. BERNIE SMYTH '55 and JOE WALSH '14. 
Xlcmbers of the Club participated in a closed Retreat at Immaculate Heart Retreat House, Spokane, during the weekend of October 30. At­tendance was better than last year and the exer­cises, conducted by Father Joseph Green of the Precious Blood Fathers, were most beneficial. It is hoped that next year more members will take ad­vantage of this wonderful opportunity for a spiritual 
retuellng. 
In August iho Club welcomed its first mrmber from the distafT side when SR. NL\RY MICHELLE FCSP MS '62 took up residence in Spokane. Sister is on the staiT of Sacred Heart Hospital and is a lo>'aI alumna. 
—JOE WALSH, Secy-Trcas. 
Terre Haute 
Members and guests of the Notre Dame CIcib of Terre Haute went to Notre Dame Stadium this year to see the Purdue-Xotre Dame game. The trip was a big success, thanks to Co-Chairmen MYRON BUSBY, JR. and BERNIE BURDICK. They had a lot of help from MIKE KEARNS. The trip was so great rescr\-ations have been re­quested for next year's trip. The next function for the Terre Haute Club will be the Communion Sunday in December. 
Past President BERNIE BURDICK has recovered from a serious operation, and now he is up and about. 
—JIM BOYER, Pres. 

Toledo 
The annual Toledo Club of ND Golf Outing was held at the Heather Downs Country Club on Aug. 
29. Forty-five alumni and friends struss^ed through the heat to make the event a success for Chairman RICHARD (RED) SMITH and GEORGE KORHUMEL. Particularly notable golfing efforts included BILL THEES (Low Gross), MARSHALL DESMOND (Low Net), JERRY FEENEY & Thees (Long Drives), TOM WTLLV & GEORGE THEISS (Closest to Pin) and DAVE LYNCH (High Gross). 

At 3 September meeting, the Toledo Club mem­bers \-iewed the "1963 NFL Football Highlights" 
30 Notrt Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
TERRE HAUTE — Notre Dame Club members and guests were wde awake in the wee hours of a Saturday morning as they departed for the Notre Dame Stadium to see the Irish H-allop Purdue. The trip was a great success even before the big \-ictory. 
and held a drawing for an evpensc-paid trip for two to the XD-Air Force game. Winner was Toledoan HARRY JABLOS. 
Major coming events are: Dec. 6, Communion 
Breakfast, chairmen D.ALE LEROUX & JOHN 
HURLEY; Dec. 26, Christmas Dance (Inverness 
CC), JOHN STOEPLER & BL.AINE XVILEY: 
Jan. 27, XD Sports Banquet. URBAN GRADEL 
& TOM IVELLY. 
—JOHN G. HARROX, Sccv. 
Triple Cities 
The University of X"olre Dame .Alumni Club of the Triple Cities this year inaugurated an award to an outstanding graduate in eadi of our local Catholic high schools. The award, an engraved Notre Dame plaque, has been designated the POPE JOHN XXIII .AW.\RD and is presented to a gradu­ating senior achieving an ouutanding record in Christian Citizenship Education. The first recipients of the award were Harr>- K. Mallcry of Catholic Central High School in Binghamton and Martin 
UTAH—Don Roney '58 (left) and Leonard DiGiacomo '57 not only continue as Club president and vice-president respectively but also seem to have a monopoly in the Junior Chamber of Commerce leadership. Don is shown handing the gavel to Lcn, who succeeded him as president of the Salt Lake City Jaycees this year. 

-Meehan of Seton Catholic High School in Endicolt." The Club*s Annual .Alumni-Father-Student ifixcr was held on Sept. 9 at Lou's Restaurant in Johnson City. Highlight of this year's program were two movies: "Highlights of the 195+ Football Season" and "Notre Dame," the latter in color and nar­rated by the late JOE BOLAND. Our Club Chap­lain Rt. Rev. MSGR. FRANCIS J. HARRISON '33 spoke some most inspirational words to the incoming freshmen. 
—JOHN J. O'ROURKE "49. Secy. 

Utah 
Club officers LEONARD DiGIACOMO and DON RONEY scored quite a public relations coup recently for Notre Dame. The occasion was the June Awards Dinner of the Salt Lake City Junior ^ Chamber of Commerce. Don. president of the Utah ^ Club and last year's president of the Jaycees, passed the Jayccc gavel to colleague Len as 19&4-65 president. This certainly sets a precedent: luo -VD men as successive Jaycec presidents would bi-impressive any^vhcre. but cfpccially in alumni-shy Salt Lake City. 
Ronc>'*s year in the presidcncv- tvas an auspicious onc.^ Under Don's leadership (as Oulsrandini,' President of the Vrar) the chapter won hvo award> as best in the state from thr Utah Junior Chamber. 
Washington, D.C. 
On Sunday, Aug- 23, the W'ashinglon Club held 

the .\nnual Summer Cocktail Party at the home 
of DAN CULHANE in Chew Chase. This was ( 
followed by the annual Family Picnic at the Rock 
Creek Council K of C in Bethcsda, Md. 
On Sept. 30 a financial statement went out fiom Treasurer JOSEPH P. MALONEY listing all laM season's dues-paying members and dcclarinc ihi-Club $1200 in the black. 
A spaghetti dinner-meeting was held on Wednes­day. Oct. 14, at the Roma Restaurant in Washin?­lon, ND men in the Washington Redskins organi­zation were special guesu. JOE MALONEV ancf AL VIROSTEK handled arrangements. 
Ailing JACK McGRATH recovered to pilot .! triumphant Washington Club tour via Penns>'lvan:.i RR to the Navy game in Philadelphia on Oct. 3i. A bus trip was also arranged to the ND-Pitl gam^ M on Nov. 7 by AL VIROSTEK. Finally, a T^' • party for the ND-Michigan State game was hfW. at the K of C Lounge In .\rlington. Va. 
Westem Washington 
The Club offered an all-c.\pcnse trip for f to the Southern California game in Los Angeles t' Nov. 28 or a color TV set to the lucky "inn . of the Scholarship Fund drawing to provide a $'•' scholarship to ND. The drawing uas made a: gala smoker on Nov. 17 at the Washington A: Ictic Club, Seattle. JIM CROTTY was in char^ 
TED CUMMINGS was chairman of a cha-: trip to the Southern Cal game on Nov. 28. 
Miss Diane McShane and JOHN H. MARTIN, '39, NoUe Dame, Ind., August 24. Miss Judith Ann Price and ROBERT A. WOM­BACHER, '39, Fort Wayne. Ind., August 22. Miss Mary Joan Daugherty and P. >¥ILLIAM BEITER '60, Lancaster, Ohio, June 13. 
Classes
Xfiss Mary Ann Budzinski and ARTHUR JAMES 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Miss Catherine Ann Pfall and .ALEXIS T. CHOLIS '41. Miss Rosemary Spence and DONALD MERDIAN 
Miss Marilyn Joanne Bongiorno and CHARLES VINCENT DOHERTY JR. '36. Miss Barbara Kay Mclntyre and LEO PARNELL BERGIN III '58. 
• Miss Susan A. -McCormacl and THO.MAS LAW­RENCE TRACE '58. Miss Maria E. Genovese and JOSEPH E. S.AD­OFSKI '58. Miss Georgia Meunier and MICHAEL J. VAN 
DEMARK '58. Miss Susan Eiden and JOHN KARL BICK '39. Miss Mary Anne Molloy and JOSEPH L. 
SCHAEFER '59 Miss Elaine Silirie and ROBERT -ANTHONY FRASSANITO '60. Miss Diana Marie Thomas and JAMES M. .VAUGHTON '60. Miss Alice B. DeVolder and JOSEPH S. SIADE •60. '% Miss Diane Rose Quigley and JOHN PHILIP KEEGAN '61. ^fiss Jeanne Daughenv and HENRI K. LESE •61. MUs Judith Ann Croke and MICHAEL E. S.AM­MON '61. Miss Judith Ann Babarckas and 1/Lt. MI­CHAEL JOHN STEPANEK JR. '61. Miss Maryanne Eileen Velten and CARL MAUR­ICE WALSH '61. Miss Regina Dalldorf and Ens. EDMUND CHARLES BARTON '62. Miss Judith Ann .Miller and .\(ICHAEL FRAN­CIS BOEH.M '62. Miss Mary Sheila Cosgriff and Ens. J-AMES WAGNER GREVER '62. Miss Patricia Ann McHugh and WALTER M. KELLY JR. '62. Miss Elizabeth Anne Beaslev and Lt. PETER L. >PACE '62. Miss Gwenyth Marie Hill and 2/Lt. JOHN E. DE LEE '63. Miss Carolvn Ann Russell and PAUL J. GUND •63. Miss Linda Ann S%Wental and JUAN E. CIN­TRON JR. '64. Miss Nanette Terese Kellv and PHILIP DAVID DeBRUYNE '64. Miss Mary Ann Vcrbeeck and WILLIAM JONES •64. Miss Mignon Theresa La Morte and ROBERT EDWARD LAWLESS III '64. Miss Jacquelyn VanLiefferingc and RICHARD A. MARCHETTI '64. Miss Elaine Marie Matthys and JAMES MI­y^HAEL VERLEYE '64. 
MARRIAGES 

Miss .Annamarie Micus and VINCENT J. DUNCAN, '44. Denver, Colo., June 6. Mrs. Viola Ritchard and AMBROSE G. MOR.\X JR., '48, Decatur. III., October 31. 
Miss Dorothy Jeannctte Perkins and GERALD ANTHONY BURLAGE, '52, Notre Dame, Ind., July 4. 
Miss Ann Gw-ynne Dougherty and ALDEN JOHN CUSICK JR., '52, Xfontclair, N.J.. August 29. Miss Eileen Mar>- Walsh and PAUL I. DAVIS, 
'52. June 27. ,^ Miss Donna Marie Kuru and JAMES S. ?jBROUGHTON, '55, Detroit, Mich., April 25. 
Miss Mary Pat King and GARY COOPER, '56, Los Angeles, Calif., June 27. 
Miss Diane Houston White and DR. RENE DIRK KOUN JR., '56, Bronx, N.V., September 26. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth Pinter and HUGH GERALD WADE, '56, Milwaukee. Wis., September 26. Miss Ann Elizabeth Veirs and JOHN GUSHING KENT, '57, South Bend, Ind., June 20. Miss Elizabeth Delia Mae DeHoust and GEORGE PETER KEYES, "57, Vestal, N.Y., July 18. Miss Maureen Ann Brown and WILLIAM JAMES JONES, "58. Riverside, III., June 27. Miss Ruth Ann Slaughter and THOMAS J. HELIRUNG, '39, Alton, III., August 29. 
ROACH JR., '60, South Bend, Ind., August 15. Miss Ann Chamley and TERENCE FITZGERALD SMITH '60, New York, N.Y., June 13. Miss Marian Joy Desmoni and BERNARD DUF­FY CRAIG JR., '61, New York, N.Y., July 4. Miss Anna Aussprung and DENNIS G. JOHNS­TON, '61, South Bend, Ind., August 1. 
Miss Gail Hodinott Mayberry and THOXLAS ERNEST LARKIN JR., '61, Bethlehem, Pa., Sep­tember 12. 
Miss Patrida Teresa Mary Gaede and THOMAS EWING MARGRAVE JR., '61, Tucson, Ariz., Sep­tember 5. 
Miss Jeanne Marie Glcnnon and EDWARD GEORGE McANANEY II, '61, New York, N.Y., July 25. 
Miss Carolyn Bozzo and DOMINIC MON^TE­ROSSO, '61, Elkhart, Ind., July 25. Miss Virginia Carole Darling and JOHN VIN­CENT FORREST JR., '62, August 16. Miss Caroline Suzanna Jehle and Lt. ROGER EUGENE KELLING, '62, Alton, III., June 20. .Miss "Mickie" .Monroe and JOHN RAYMOND RAEDY, '62, Washington, D.C., .August 8. Miss Judith Openlandcr and 2/Lt. FREDERICK 
J. WAGNER, "62, Notre Dame, Ind., August 8. Mbs Betty Breen and TERRENCE B. DES­.MOND '63, .Voire Dame, Indiana, July 4. Miss Mary Ann Wisne and RONALD P. FAK­LER, '63, Cleveland, Ohio, June 20. Miss Bonnie Gay and Lt. RICHARD FOLEY, '63, Xotre Dame, Ind., June 20. -Miss Joyce Ellen .\ferrill and Lt. WILLIA.M O. FRAILEY IV, '63, Notre Dame, Ind., September 19. Miss Marian Hedivig Holliday and PHILIP MUR­RAY GRACE JR., '63, Youngstown, Ohio, July 4. Miss Mary .Anne Dambach and MARK L. HER­MANN, '63, Cleveland, Ohio, June 20. MUs Ruth Ellen Dowling and PAUL J. KELLY JR., '63, Scarsdale, N.Y., June 27. Miss Noreen Carol Papie r and RICHARD HENRY MACK, '63, Cleveland, Ohio, June 13. Miss Martha Slephan and ROBERT PATRICK McNEILL, '63, Evanston, 111., September 12. Miss Susan Lee Wlliams and JOHN STEPHEN SRNEC JR., '63, Youngstown, Ohio, August 8. 
Miss Rosemary Margaret Oliva and WILLIAM MARQUIS ANDERSON, "6», South Bend, Ind., .August 8. 
Miss Mary Ann Couch and JOHN RICHARD BRUNO, '64, Notre Dame, Ind., August 22. 
Miss Genevieve Mary Costello and WILLIAM HENRY CUSICK III, '6*. New York, N.Y., Sep­tember 5. 
Mbs Marilyn Cernak and Dr. RONALD A. DAIGNAULT, '64, Notre Dame, Ind., September 5. Miss Judith .Ann Laughlin and -MICHAEL JAMES 
DeBARTOLO, '64, South Bend, Ind., June 27. 
Miss Sherlyn Louise Piani and GERALD AVIL­LIAM DeMARCO, '64, South Bend, Ind., August 29. 
Miss Katharine Ames Morse and JAMES WAL­TER DUNCAN III, '64. Notre Dame, Ind., August 8. 
Miss Joyce Barbara Pahl and ROGER NEIL FOLEY, '64, South Bend, Ind., August 22. Miss Maureen R. Burke and GEORGE P. KOCH, '64, Snvder, N.Y., September 5. Miss Diane Berry and CLARENCE H. LOE­B.ACH JR., '61, South Bend, Ind., -August 8. Miss Ann Marie Xve and RAYMOND G. LUB­AWY, '64, South Bend, Ind., July 4. Miss Gloria Ann Knight and FRANK PETER ORLANDO, '64, Schererville, Ind., August 8. Miss Kathleen J. Gorski and STEVE R. PI­SCHALKO, '64. South Bend, Ind., September 8. Miss Mary Ellen Xecarsulmer and LAWRENCE KENTON WALSH, '6». Chappaqua. X.Y.. June 13. 
BIRTHS 

-Mr. and Mrs. JA.MES F. PURCELL '42, a son, Michael James, August 22. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES E. MURPHY '47, a daughter, Kathleen Rose, October 7. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES L. FERSTEL '48, a son, .Mark William, July 6. Mr. and Mrs. FRANK McBRIDE '50, a daugh­ter, April 29. Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP J. FACCENDA '51, a daughter, Margaret Mary, September 12. Mr. and Mrs. CARL F. EIBERGER '32. a son, Cari F. in . October 1. 
.Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. SECHOWSKI '52, a son, September 13. Mr. and Mrs. KARL J. LENSLER '54, a daugh­ter, August 4. Mr. and Mrs. TIPTON N. PATTON '35, a 
daughter, Marv Frances, July 1. Dr. and Mrs. JOHN E. BOWER JR. '36, a son, James Elliott, September 22. Mr. and Mrs. LOUIS J. MALANDRA '56, a son, James Louis, April 28. Mr. and Mrs. RONALD WEBER '56. a daugh­ter, Kathryn Dorothy, August 22. Mr. and Mrs. GARY ZIMMERMAN '37, a son, Eric Wlliam, August 4. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS J. CROZIER '58, a daughter, Kendyl Susan, March 6. Mr. and Mrs. J. TERRY PLUNKETT '39, a son, September 19. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. BARA '60, a daugh­ter, Catherine Louise, Mav 16. Mr. and Mrs. J. KENNETH BOURGON '60, a son, Michael George, June 12. -Mr. and -Mrs. RICHARD BARRETT '61, a daughter, Mary Elizabeth, .August 15; -Mr. and Mrs. JEROME J. CROWLEY JR. '61. a daughter, Karen Elizabeth, July 16. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL G. HOLMAN JR. '61, a son, Joseph Raymond, October 13. Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL J. MITOLA JR. '61, a daughter, Ann Marcks, September 7. Mr. and Mrs. LARRY L. KEELEY '62, a son, Brendan Patrick, May 13. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. PUGLIESE '62, a son. Brian John, September 1. .Mr. and .Mrs. GEORGE P. SEFCIK '62, a son, .\ugust 7. Mr. and Mrs. TIMOTHY J, CONDON '63, a son, Timothy Joseph Jr., .August 6. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH S. MAXWELL '63, a son. Steven Joseph. July 1­
DEATHS 

CHARLES E. RUFFING 1886. of Bcllcvuc, Ohio, died September U according lo word received from his daughter. 
JAMES A. FLYNN 1893, 6rst president of the ND Club in Washington, D. C , died September 26 after a long illness. Dr. Flynn was an ear, nose and throat specialist in Washington for more than 40 years and liad reured four years ago. He i» >iur\*ivcd by his vnit and a daughter. 
FRANK J. ONZON LLB 1895, one of Corpus Christi's (Te.\.) oldest practicing attorneys until his retirement three years ago, died August 4 in a local rest home after a short illness. In 1957, the late Pope Pius XH awarded him the August Cross Pro Ecclesia Et Pontifice (for Church and Pontiff) in recognition of his services to the Church. . \ bachelor, he is survived by cousins representing manv of Corpus Christi's oldest families. 
JOHN B. ERVIN '01 of Munclc, Indiana, is deceased according to word received in the Alumm OfHce. No date is known. 
FRANK D. HAYES '09 of Elmhursi, Illinois, 13 deceased according to word recently received m the Alumni Office. No details are knovvn. 
GEORGE A. REMFE SR. 10 of Phoenix, Ariz., died in May and burial wa^ in Charles, Illinois. Surti^-ors include his wife, »on. brother and three sisters. 
JOSEPH C. GODDEYNE '11 of Bay City, Michi­gan, died in August according to word received in the Alumni Office. No details were given. 
LA^VRENCE P. SCHUBERT *ll, retired engi­neer with the Stiidebaker Corp., where he had worked for 35 years, died June 25 of a heart attack sufTerefl at his home. He is sur^'ived by his son, Laurence: J. '48, a daughter and a brother, Carl E. '21. 
EDWARD M. BRUCE '12 of Glenview, Illinois, died March 20 according to vvord recently received in the Alumni OfKce. 
WARREN H. SEXTON '12, prominent Utica, New York, insurance and real estate executive, died May 3. He and his wife recently celebrated their golden wedding anniversary. He is also survived by a son and a daughter. 
RALPH J. MILLS '12 of Lake Forest, Illinois, died January 13, according to word recently re­ceived in the Alumni Office. 
T^VOMEY M. CUFFORD LLB '14 of Camden, .\rkansas, died July 12 in the hospital after three da>-s' illness. He had been Camden's municipal judge since retirement from the legal department of International Paper Co. He is survived by his wife. 
JAMES PATRICK O'DONNELL LLB '15 of Butte, Montana, died several years ago according to word recently received at the .\lumni Office^ 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 31 
REV. MICHAEL A. MULCAIRE CSC '17, a nati\-c of Limerick, Ireland, died September 10 in Holy Cross House where he had been linng in retirement since 1957. He ^i'as a professor of eco­nomics at ND from 1923 to 1928 and again after \V\\1I. He was vice-p resident of ND and chair­man of the facidtv board in control of athletics from 1928 to 1933 and from 1943 to 1943 was economics professor and also xice-prcsident of the 
U. of Portland. He was asst. chaplain or Columba Hall from 1955 to 1957. Sur\"ivors include a brother. Rev. James Mulcaire CSC '29, three oUier brothers and four sisters including three CSC nuns. HARRY E. SCOTT '17 of Indianapolis, Indiana, 
died September 28 according to a phone call re­
ceived on campus. No other details were a^-ailablc. 
JOHN M. RAAB LLB '18, former Mishawaka. 
Indiana, city judge and prosecuting attorney, died 
September 17 in the Veterans Hospital in W. Lafay­
ette, Ind,, where he had been confined since 1945. 
Survit'ors include a niece and nephew, 
LEO F. MULQUEEN -19, native of Salamanca, 
New York, and retired super\Tsing architectural 
engineer for the Veterans Administration, died 
July 18 in a Washington, D. C , hospital after a 
stroke. He had served as an acoustical consultant 
and civil engineer for several pri\*ate firms before 
his retirement in 1958. He is survived by a 
daughter. 
PAUL A. MULCAHY '22 of Geneva, Ne^v York, 
died July 18 after a short illness. He was a mem­
ber of several cine, fraternal and religious organ­
izations. Survivors include his \vife, sister and 
brother. 
SR. M. AQUINAS McLAUGHLIN OSF MA '22 of Mount St. Francis, Dubuque, Iowa, died June 16. 
WILLIAM H. PO>VERS '22, assoc dean of the college of science and professor of chcmbtry at Pcnn State U., died August 29 of a heart attack. Before joining the Penn State faculty in 1942 he held various positions with industr>-, taught chem­istry in the Oil Cit>-, Pa., public schools, and from 1923 to 1941 was prof., dean and acting pres. of Alliance College at Cambridge Springs. Pa. Survii'ors include his wife, three children and six sisters. 
JOHN A. MULDOON JR. '22 of Winnetka, Illinois, died July I in Delray Beach, Fia. He v*-as the retired president of Motor Transportation Co., a Chicago trucking firm. Survinng are his %rife, two daughters, brother and sister. 
REV. THOMAS D. RICa\RDS CSC '22, supe­rior of the Community* Infirmary at ND from 1958 to I960, died in surgery at a Rochester, Minn., hospital July 24. .At the time of his death he held the post of chaplain at St. Joseph's Novitiate of the Brothers of Holy Cross, at Rolling Prairie, Ind. He spent most of his priestly life as a mem­ber of the CSC Mission Band and ser\-ed as its superior from 1946 to 1952. Rt. Rev. Msgr. Ralph Richards* a brother of Fr. Richards, officiated at the funeral. Survivors include another brother and three sisters. 
DONALD J. MacDONALD '23 of Duluth, Min­nesota, died of an aneurism on April 14. He is sur\i\*ed by his wife, t%vo sons and one daughter. 
BRO. FERDINAND MOSER CSC '23, who had taught engineering at the U. of Portland, Oregon, from 1931 to 1951, died July 16 of a heart attack. He did maintenance at NT) from 1927 to 1931. He is surivcd by a sister. 
JOSEPH M. HOWARD '25 of Indianapolis, In­diana, died July 12. Tiiere were no details. 
ROBERT B. HO\\X.\ND '25 of Ne%vark, N. J., died March 3 according to word received from his wife. 
HERMAN R. K.\MP '26 of Lafayette, Indiana, is deceased according to word received in the Alumni Office in September. Tlicrc were no dc­taib given. 
BERNARD L. EPSTEIN '27, founder and owner of the Standard Paint and Wallpaper Co., Chicago, died September 16. Sur\-iving are his wife, t^vo daughters, brother and t^vo sisters. 
ANTHONY J. G.\NDOLPH '27 of E\-anston, Illinois, died September 9. No details were given. 
DR. ARDIS F. MELLOH '27, of Indianapolis, Indiana, died September 21, 1962, according to word recently received from his daughter. 
WILLIAM S. GATE '27 of W\-andottc Michi­gan, died June 23. Sur^-ivors include his wife, sons William A. '57 and John G. '61, and a daughter. 
GEORGE SADLIER JR. '27, cliairman of ilie board of Inland Ini'cstment Co. Inc. and former president of Union Federal Savings & Loan Assn., Indianapolis, Indiana, died in his home July 2. He ^vas active tn political, ci^ic, athletic, religious and scholastic organizations. Survi\*or5 include his wife, son, daughter and four sisters. 

32 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
CHARLES E. RUFFING of the Class of 
1886, who was possibly the Univcraty*s oldest liWng alumnus, died m September at the age of 95. A contemporary of Fr. Sorin, Mr. Ruffing managed a dry goods store in Bellevue, O., until two years be­fore death. He left six children, 16 grandchildren (including John Phipps '46), 46 great-grandchildren and a sister. 
EDWARD BOLAN BURKE '28 died at his home in New Orleans, Louisiana, on July 10 of a heart condition. He was unmarried and is Sur­vived by a brother and a sister. He was the son of the late Patrick E. Burke 'S8 who was a class­mate of the first president, Fr. John Cavanaugh, and had received three degrees and an honorary degree from ND. 
REV. RAYMOND J. CLANCY CSC '29 died Augtist 18 in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend. Fr. Clancy had been a resident of Holy Cross House, ND, since he became ill in 1961. A mem­ber of the Eastern Pro^i-ince of the Holy Cross Fathers, he had taught at ND and the U. of Port­land, He is survived by a brother. 
JOSEPH H. NASH '29, Chicago, Illinois, died m his home September 8. Survivors include his wife; two sons. Rev. Joseph OP '54 and Rev. Edward OP '59; and ttvo daughters. 
EDMUND L. MORRISSEY '30, an engineer for the county highway department for the last 27 years, died in Oak Park hospital, Chicago, Illinois. He is sur\i\'ed by his wife. 
JOHN C. THOMAS '30, of Houston, Texas, died August 10 according to word. rcceivcd-..at the .-Mumni OfHcc. No other details are known. 
JOHN F. SULLIVAN '31, trust officer and a \-ice-presidcnt of the New Jersey Bank & Trust Co., Passaic, died July 25 on tlie municipal tennis court. He was a member of a law firm in Pas­saic, was president of the United Fund last year and served for i%vo terms on the Passaic Rede­velopment Board. Surviving arc his wife, son and tvrin daughters. 
THOMAS O'.MALLEY '32, circuit court judge for tlirce Illinois counties, died .August 23. An attorney in Aurora since 1935, he scr\xd as Aurora corporation counsel in 1952. Survivors include a sister. 
JAMES F. SHEA '33 died in Bronxvillc, Neu* York, on September 30, after a long illness. Sur­xnvors include his wile and four sons, including Brian '63. 
KENNETH S. KENNEDY '34, Omaha, Ne­braska, died August 9 in a five-car aca'dent in Carson, Iowa. He was a former high school foot­ball, basketball and track coach at Omaha Benson, Tech and Central. His 1948 Tech grid team has been hailed as one of the best In Nebraska prep history. 
JOHN G. LESKO '34, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, died May 17^ according to word just recently re­ceived. He is survived by his wife and seven children. 
JOHN J. LIVELY '33 of Alexandria, Virginia, 

cUed August 22, 1963, according to word recently 
received at the Alumni Office from his son. 
PAUL F. NOCKELS '35, a Yuma, Arizona, 

attornejv died July 3, 1963, according to word ^ 
recsntlv received at the Alumni Office. 
ROCCO V. SCHIRALLI '35 of Gar>', Indiana, 

died September 13 according to word received at 
the .Alumni Office. A son, Angelo, is a sophomore 
guard on the ND football team, for which his 
father played in the 30*5, 
WALTER J. O'BRIEN '35 of River Forest. Illi­

nois, died June 2 according to word received in 
the Alumni Office. No details were given. 
REV. CLETUS S. BACHOFER CSC '38, pro­

fessor of biology at ND, was taken ill while vaca­
tioning in Minnesota and died a few days later 
on Augmt 30 in a Rochester hospital. He taught 
at ND during 1948-49 and continuously since 1950. 
He had conducted several rcsearcli projects in radia-1 
tlon biology and neuro-physiology for the US 
Atomic Encrg\- Commission. Survivors include hl< 
father and three brotliers. 
CARLETON G. MacDOUGALD '38 was fatally 

shot .August 6 during a holdup attempt in his 
store in Cranston, Rhode Island. He was ND Man 
of the Year in 1957, cited for the struggle In* 
had made to recover from tlic effects of an auto­
mobile accident the pre\ious year. He is sur\ivrd 
by his wile, three daughters and his father. 
EDWARD A. PALANK '39, on the staff of four 

area hospitals and a Suitland, Maryland, general 
practitioner for 15 years, died July 22 of a heart 
attack. Survivors include his wife, four sons and 
a daughter. g 
EDWARD L. HULTGREN '41 of Fort Wayne J 

Indiana, died according to a note received from 
his son, who is attending ND for the second year. 
No details were given. 
LOUIS A. REISER HI, New York, N.Y., for­merly of Johnstown, died August 30. He was a member of the American Chemical Society, vet­eran of .Am. Field Service and administrative asst. in the research dcpt. of United Fruit Co. In lieu of flowers, friends were asked to make donations to the Notre Dame Foundation. Sur\ivors include his wife, mother and brother. 
JAMES DOUGLAS CASEY '44 of Chicago, Illinois, is deceased according to word received in the Alumni Office. 
PETER a GREEN '51, of New York, N.Y.. died April 24. Survivors include his parents in Appleton, Wisconsin. 
THOMAS W. DUNLAY '52, a Van .\uys.| California, high school coach, died August 17. He had been seriously ill for the past year. He U survived bv his wife. 
RAYMOND T. EARLS '52 of Dorchester. Massa­chusetts, died August 25. Classmate John B. Hynes has started a fund with the Notre Dame Founda­tion in his memory. 
SISTER ^L CARMELITA {NLARJORIE GUIN­AN) MA '53 died September 14 in Windsor. On­tario, Canada. She was in her 4ath year of reli­gious life. 
.ANDREW .AMAN III '58, Dayton, Ohio, lav^T'T and former asst. county prosecutor, died July 12 of a brain tumor. He had been ill three montli*. 
•At the time of his death he was president of the ND Club of Dayton, v-p. of the Dayton Jayceer^ and a board member of Catholic Charities. He i survived by his father Andrew ,A. Jr. '30, h;. mother and two sisters. 
MICHAEL L. CORCOR.AN '61 of Chicago, Illi­nois, died May 22 in an automobile accidenr. Survivors include his parents. 
EDWARD A. MAGUIRE JR. '61 of Camden New Jersey* died June 5 according to word ri ceived in the Alumni Office. His parents survive 
HAROLD V. HOFFM.AN '63 of Trenton. Nc Jersey, died near the truce Unc between Nor;.­and South Korea on August 12 while serving as ; 2nd Lt. with the 27th Maintenance Battalion >' the 1st US Cavalry Div. He and an enlisted m.-^ i had been sent to retrieve a vehicle stranded in jg flood-swollen stream. The UTCckcr also got stuc!^" and the two attempted to swim to shore when t! : water began to rise and he drowned. He is si: ­vived by his mother. 
PAUL JOSEPH HUGH '64 of Minneapolis, Mi nesota, was killed in an automobile accident July while touring France. Sur\ivors Include : parents. 
BROTHER MARK SIEDLER CSC, of Colur Hall, NT), died unexpectedly .August 28 after sut ing a heart seizure a few hours earlier. For 46 y; Bro. Mark was a printer in the composing T''­of the Ave Maria Press, a position he held at time of his death. His only survivors are ; ' brothers. 
SYMPATHY 

^ SEBASTIAN T. BERNER '27, on the dtaili of his W father, August 2. FRANK J. MOOTZ '27, on tlic death of his motlier, September 1. ARTHUR W. MILLER '28, on the death of his father, June 27. JAMES A. REYNIERS '30, on the death of his father, August 23. FRANCIS A. DUNN '35, on the death of his mother, August 26. THOMAS J. STRITCH '34, on tlic death of his mother, September 14. .MARVIN J. GORMAN JR. '39, on the death of his father, June 21. JOSEPH A. NEUFELD '44, on the death of his t father, June 20. MALCOLM W. DOOLEY '30, on the death of his mother, August 19. RICHARD W. MURPHY '30, on the death of his mother, July 23. ANDREW J. HERNON JR. '33, on tlic death of his father. DAVID A. MARTIN '33, on the death of his fatlicr, September 12. JOHN G. BRYAN '34, on the death of his father, June 29. ARTHUR W. CHENEY '39, on the death of his father, August 3. k \VILLIA.M D. MORENCY '39, on the death of his father, July 12. 
50-YEAR CLUB 
Walter L. Qeniciits 
Tower Building 
South Bend, Ind. 

Fiom the Alumni OiTicc: 
Wc take this opportunity to welcome WALTER CLEMENTS as the ncu- keeper of this corner. Colonel Clements has scr^'ed with distinction as the Class of 1914 scribe since the unlimeJy death of RON 0*NEILL. He has a head start on hb 
I new duties since his conferences this past summer with 14 members of hb Golden Jubilee Class whicli now joins the Semicentcnarians — as well as DAN 0*CONNOR '05, FRED STEERS *!! and JIM 0»HARA '13 of Chicago; CLAUDE SORG *IO of Mlddletown, Ohio; and FRED MEIFELD '12 of Frankfort, Ind. We expect Walter to contribute profiles of these and other Golden Boys in future columns. 
The Sight-Giver, newsletter of New York's La­vcllc School for the Blind, has items on the trus­tees under the presidency of HON. ERNEST E. L. HAMMER 'M. (LL.D 'M), as wcU as heart­warming notes on Bar Mttzvahs, baseball tnps and World's Fair excursions of the sightless students under the supen-JsJon of Dominican nuns. Judge Hammer, retired from the New York Supreme 
|Court, has helped the Dominican Sbters at La­vellc celebrate the 60th Anniversar>- of the school, their own Golden Jubilee as faculty, and the erec­tion of new $2.3 milh'on scliool buildings, to be dedicated shortly by CARDINAL SPELLMAN LL.D '35. July was even a bigger month than June for one new 50-Ycar Clubber who made the Reunion 
— FR. SALVATORE FANELLI CSC. Father Sal was honored by parishioners of St. Joseph Church, South Bend, for nearly 25 years of loving and be­loved service as assistant to the pastor. He re­ceived several gifts from St. Joe parishioners at a reception in his honor before iiis transfer to Jordan, Minn., to become resident confessor at the Holy Cross Fathers* Sacred Heart Novitiate. It kw-as a fitting appointment, since Father Sal may 
Well be the most popular confessor since the Cure of Ars. Ordained in 1918, he had assignments (mostly pastoral) in Louisiana, Wisconsin, Ken­tucky, Texas and Nc»v York before coming to South Bend in 1940. Since then he has been ac­tive as chaplain or spiritual director for the Boy Scouts, the Legion of Marj-, the Altar Society, the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, the Christian Family Afovemcnt and e\en tlie Civil .\ir Patrol. He's also been an indefatigable work­er for Italian W'txr Relief, the Morcau Seminary and St. Joseph High School campaigns . . . and the best spaghetti- and pizza-maker on South Bend's East Side. To Father Sal (although Ken­tucky-bom) a fcxv old-countr^* salutations: ".A rivederci, bcniie, adio e ciao!" 
We mourn: CHARLES E. RUFFING '86, one of our oldest alumni, who died in Bellevue, O., in September at the age of 95; FRANK J. ONZON 
LL.B. '95 of Corpus Christ!, Tex., whose death in .'August ended a career in law and public life that merited (along with hb deep devo­tion to tlie Sacred Heart) a papal cross from Pope Piux XII in 1957; the reported deaths (with no details at thb time) of JOHN B. ERVIN '01 of Muncie, Ind., and FRANK D. H.\VES '09 of Elmhurst, III.; GEORGE A. RE^^PE SR. '10 of PhocnLc, Ariz., u-jth a great family tradition at St. Mary's College, whose death in May was Just recently learned; JOSEPH C. GOD­DEYNE '11 of Bay City, Mich., who died in Au­gust; LAWRENCE SCHUBERT '11 of South Bend, former Studcbakcr engineer with a strong ND family tradition, whose death in June just missed the last issue; EDWARD M. BRUCE '12 of Glen-view, III., whose death last March was learned some months later; WARREN SEXTON '12 prom­inent in realty and insurance in Utica, N.Y., whose passing in ^fay was similarlv delayed in reporting; RALPH MILLS '12 of Lake Forest, III., who died back in Januar\- to merit the most overdue apolo­gies; and TWOMEY CLIFFORD '14 of Camden, Ark., whose death was reported in July bv WAL­TER CLEMENTS. The last was profiled last year by the Colonel for his versatility {corporation law­yer, municipal judge, city attorney, county prose­cutor, FBI agent, etc.) and hb determination to make the Golden Jubilee Reunion (foiled by ill­ness). 
To the loved ones of these comrades departed, a pledge of perpetual Masses and prayers through the Alumni Assn. 
Last summer CLYDE BROUSSARD '13 rejoiced in the arrival of hb 30th grandchild, seventh child of DR. FRANCIS E. SCHLUETER '35 of Pasadena, C^lif. And from his Beaumont (Tex.) Rice Mills, he oversaw the move of the immigrant Chinese couple he helped to be baptized and mar­ried (Dr. and Mrs. Yang MS '53) to Buffalo, N.Y.. with DuPont. 
Composer Meredith Willson, chronicler of "The Music Man," "Here's Love," "Tlie Unsinkablc Molly Brown," etc., often speaks of his ND ath­lete father's rather cool attitude toward hb pic­colo-playing son. Father was JOHN D. WILLSON LLB 1885 of Mason City, Iowa, and he couldn't have been as tough as Meredith painted him in the light of his son's musical reverence for the Iowa of his youth. 
Congratulations to Loretta and BILL FERSTEL '00 on the occasion of their 50th wedding anniver­5ar>' on October 14. 
Come AUye M '65f 

Class off '15 Geldca Jabite* REUNION-^Hiie 11-12-13 
•15 Albert A. KuUe 117 Soutli Sunset Ave La Grange, ID. 

Congratulations to the memben of the 1914 Class for the excellent turn-out for their Golden Jubilee as reported by Secretary WALTER L, CLEMENTS. This very fine example should be an inspiration for all members of the 1913 Class whose Golden Jubilee I's scheduled for June, 1963, 
The Class of 1915 has 57 li\-ing members for whom we have current addresses. Also, as far as is known there are 11 additional members for whom we do not have current addresses. Wc confidently expect that a record number of the Class of 1915 will return to tlic ND campus for their Golden Reunion next year. 
In this connection \vc will have a letter in the hands of all members around the first of the year. That letter will contain specific informatioa as to dates and plans. In the interim your Secretary will appreciate hearing from classmates about their plans to attend thb rare and hbtorical event. Few men are given such a privilege as will be afforded to you on thb occasion. It should therefore be a mtist on your calendar for 1965. 
Xetv addresses have been reported by members of the Class of 1915 as follows: DR. EDWARD G. GUSHURST, 790 Washington St., Denver, Colo.; 
L. D. KEESLAR, 3946 Madbon Ave., Ft. Mvers. Fla. 33901. 
It is important that the .'\fumni OfiTce has cor^ rcct and current addresses for all memben SQ please report any changes to that office promptly. 
From the .Alumni OfHce: Now in South America as an advisor to univcr^ sities (and incidentally doing spadework for an­other ND undergraduate year abroad in Peru), DR. GEORGE NAUXLAN SHUSTER was in Washington, D.C., in late October as keynote speaker for the Catholic .\ssn. for International Peace gathered for its 37th annual convention. Earlier he spearheaded efforts of the American Hierarchy to get a strong statement on religious freedom from the Vatican Council, plus a dis­carding of ancient formulas on the Jews and con-
TESTIMONIAL Dinner for Tun Galvin, given in Gary by the Indiana Kn^t s of Columbus, was attended by many alumni and quite a few Galvins, iDcludiog: (front row, l.-r.) Clarence E. Manion '22, Ray T. Miller '14, Timothy P. Galvin Sr. '16, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh CSC '23, Eli J. Shaheen '34 and John T. Rocap '30; 
(rear) Patrick J. Galvin '61 and Timothy P. Galvin Jr. '39. Tim Sr., a former deputy grand knight of the K of C and a Knight of St. Gregory, was also the chief speaker at the recent 100th anniversary of St. Francis Xavicr Parish. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 33 
tinuation of friendly overtures toward Eastern Christianity and Islam. George will be back as assistant to RATHER HESBURGH in plenty of time to help AL KUHLE with the campus md of planning for the Golden Jubilee next June. 
'1 7 ^**^*^^*^ J- ^*cOskcr 
525 N. Melrose Ave. Elgin, III. 

From the Alumni Office; The funeral of FR. MIKE MULaVIRE brought a great many alumni to the campus, not only classmates and coniemponines but many younger men he knew- and influenced as a teacher, con­fessor and vice-president of Notre Dame. May God grant eternal rest to him and to HARRY SCOTT of Indianapolis, wlio followed him on Sept. 28. 
•IJ * George Waagc 3305 Wrightwood Ave. Chicago, HI. 

BILL ANDRES from Mexico writes that he has not seen JIM LOGAN since graduation but had seen )[ORRI£ STARRETT a couple of times. EDDIE McOSKER and ELMER TOBIN looked just like Old St. Joe Hallers with themselves and the surroundings ver>- much more "dressed up" (picture taken in basement of Morris Inn). Mem* ories of BROTHER FLO and the old "Rcc Room" of HOWARD PARKER at the piano while JOHN CONBOY danced. Of the hot games at the pool tabic. Of digging the grave of St. Joe Hall — to put wiugs on It and rcchristen it Badin. Of "bun" carts — waiting on tables — UGH! — what goo-y chicken floating in sticky yellow gra\'>'! Of all the ihings wc used to gripe about and now cherish as 
•happy memories. Big DUTCH BERG.M.\N'S picture brought back the time Fr. ED FINNEGAN, the prefect of Corby Hall, picked a football team to play "Dutch's" team in his home town, Peru, Ind. Onij' 3 few memories remain of this game — one of which is the wrong way I went about protecting a bad knee instead of tucking it under me. Also the lincbacking of CARLETON BEH — who certainly that day \s-as a Sam Huff bom 40 years too soon. CY DEGREE was just coming up and sprout­ing as a punter. His first punt that day went side­ways — so far the game was delayed 10 or more minutes so they could get the ball back. If I re­member correctly he could kick close to 90 ^-ards on the fly. We thank Bill for his letter and hope that you'll write also. 
ERNIE "STUFFS"' BURKE made his 5th trip to Europe — staying In the .•\ustrian .-Mps. Never heard if he got there — or if he is back — would appreciate a card from my old roommate. 
COMMANDER CAhh, your president, is a grand fellow and I bear from him and wish that you guys would write Charlie, as he will pass on the dope to me and I in turn will have something to write the ALUMNUS. Any keyhole news about yourself or classmate — as to any addition to fam­ily, etc. — now that's grandchildren I mean but please write — write to JOHN F. LAUGHLIN, Mg. Ed., ALUMNUS. If you kno«- or kn«*- JIM ARMSTRONG, .Mumni Secretary, write Jim a note 
—
 we u*ant you to know that wc appreciate hear­ing from YOU and about YOU. CHARLIE CALL writes that he took off for Bastille Day in France 

—
 stopping off at Germany, .Austria, England and Spain — while the Mrs. takes off for New Mexico with oldest granddaughter to \'isit her sister. The Commander sent me his school photo album. If you'd like to "look sec" at Ole Timers' pictures let us know. BILL BRADBURY is looking 'cm over now. Understand Call is selling his Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., home and making his Winter Haven, Fla., home his permanent abode. Believe you'll find Charlie a lot more around 1W7 Biltmorc Driv^, judging from what he writes "Tlie European trip was fun enough but 1 ran into a heat wave and came home radicr hurriedly, it was just as hot m 


X.J. so I didn't help myself much. Going over ".ve *\'cnt via Goose Bay, Labrador, and shot across from there to France in five and one-half hours. Coming home wc stopped at the .Azores briefly. The Bavar­ian Alps seem alwa>-s to thrill me — but after 22 crossings wonder if I shouldn't hang up the shoes." Hey — did you know that LEONARD M. CALL class of '20 is the Commander's brother? 
Sorrv to report that my neiglibor — Notre Dame man. Class '27 — >L\TrHE\V J. CULLEN, LLB 
— husband of LaVeme, fatlier of Judith Ellen 3^rie and Xfatthcw Jr. — \*-as laid ta rest by Our Lady Of Peace Church. Many Alumni ^411 add 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
HOWARD V. PHALIN '28 became presi­dent of Field Enterprises Educational Corp. on Oct. 1. The company is the largest educational publishing concern in the fvorld and one of the "Top 500'' corpora­tions. In 30 years Howie has held every executive position in the firm, and as executive vice-pres. for the past seven years pushed 87 offices and 50,000 sales personnel to an annual volume over $100 million. An advisor of ND and other universities, he heads several civic, religious and charitable organizations, including a $9 million hospital drive in Chicago, plus businesses in the suburbs. Last year he was honored as a Man of the Year by the ND Club of Chicago and the Illinois Catholic Wom­en's Club. Residents of Evanston, 111., Howie and his wife arc donors of the most striking piece of art on the Northern Indiana landscape, the mag­nificent nine-story marble mosaic mural adorning the south facade of the ND Memorial Library and depicting Christ the Teacher surrounded by saintly leaders and scholars of all the ages. 
prayers and Masses when they learn of this sad news. Hope to hear from LEO COOK, LLB. Sent him group pictures; trust he finds 'cm interesting. 
Saw BILL GRADY this spring at ND. He looks great and feels fine. From the regularity with which Bill returns to the campus one ^vould imag­ine that CarroUton, Tex., is within walking dis­tance. Another real nice ND man. 
Have not heard from Att'y G. E. HARBERT — kinda expected a card from him from Arizona, where he and the Mrs. \-acationed. Pleased to re­port that FR. GEO. HOLDERTTH, CSC is looking great. 
MAX G. KA2US I'll wipe off my list if he doesn't come through with a letter telling of the "Stunts" he was in while at school. If Max doesn't I might make up some about him. 
Quoting from TO.M KING'S letter addressed to Call; "Wc (Mrs. K.) were fortunate in that we were over most of the Far East that is available to travelers except Korea and India. We were particu­larly intrigued by Japan; the Philippine Islands, primarily Northern Luzon; Singapore, Bangkok and Hong Kong. Wc stopped in Saigon but thc>* did not let us out of the airport. Wc did not enjoy Taiwan. I think because the people there seemed so ver>' unhappy. May see you sometime this winter in Florida." Tom retires in 1966. 
I know that I should have contacted Judge VINCENT a GIBLLN if only \-ia phone — but that Hibiscus Isle, Miami Beach, address was just too high tone for my blood and really scared me off. Had I kno^vn that CHARLIE BACHMAN is at Pompano Beach I would have called him and that's for sure. \Vhett west last year, stopped in and J called on CARLETON BEH; he marked up my list^ and told me to be sure to call on Judge VINCE GIBLIN. MARK CULLEN, ALLEN \\\ FRITZSCHE, THOM.AS D. MOTT JR.. JOHN L. REUSS and FREDERICK J. SLACKFORD — tWsh I had some news about these guys and hope that next issue I will be able to report some news about 'em and others on the 1918 roster. Missing any word from JAMES P. (JIM) LOGAN. Hope that he is feeling fine and keeping in touch with JAMES F. HANLON, who should perhaps be looking fonvartl to hzinsins in a train load to see ND's new win­ning football team. 
Wondering if JOHN A. LEMMER Is putting in as much time fooling around golf as he did in the^ past — or has his second trip to the altar changed" things? 
Seen '"BIG FRANK" RYDZEWSKL He is fine — putting la a full day's work at his office playin.^ pinochle — this keeps him olf his sore "dogs.*" Next time I see Frank gotta ask him about Judge EDWIN T. BREE.V. 
Hope that PETER J. RONCHETTI Is back on his golf game and has overcome his eye trouble. Perhaps Pete will drop us a note. 
Really I should keep closer touch with quarter miler JOHN J. VOELKERS. He doesn't live far from 3303; if I had his phone number I \\*ouId give him a ring. 
Trur, LEO J. VOGEL is a '17er, but us track men have got to stick together and I appreciate^ hearing from him and learning where In the world he is and has been. 
No word from Doc NEIL J. WHALEN. Won­dering how he and the Mrs. enjoyed their West Indies cruise. 
FR. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS should "bust" in on the Commander now that they are permanently there — as I know that he is most welcome b>­Charlie and the Mrs. They have his room "at thr ready" at all times. 
Still looking for a campus stor>' from LOUIS E. WAGNER. Personally had a very nice surprise this summer. Remember when World War I broke? — The cry was for you to loan your >"acht to the US for a sub chaser? Mr. Armstrong, Armstrong Bros. Tool Co., had a boat built according to Naval spedficatlon' and donated boat SP-960 and crew, comprised of six fellows: Paul, Horace (Skipper)^ John Armstrong, H. Blum, R. Maize and GBW." All reported and stayed at the Skipper's cottage at Harbor Springs, Mich. Ever>'one enjoying good health, as were the five wives. It was the first meeting in 47 years, ever>'onc having a great time and hoping that the Skipper invites us back for the 50tn reunion. 
JAMES L. SWEENEY was at ND this June. He stopped off and saw SHER>VOOD DIXON. Should h^ve a note from Sweeney to have his report on his campus visit and also about the pictures that were sent him. 
MORRIE STARRETT could only enjoy one day on the campus as he had to leave "for my step­mother's funeral and calm a much worried wife." Morrie did attend the Monogram Dinner and hac^ his picture taken with the football coach. He aUiV sat with us, FRED STEERS and "RED" MILLER at dinner. Miles was also in the picture but I could not send him a copy as I do not have his ad­dress. Please see that I get it. 
Took picture of the Square Petunia Corp. di­rectors at the Morris Inn: JOHN V. Mc-MANMON (chairman). JOHN MILLER, FRANK RYDZEW­SKI, BILL GRADY, JOHN FREDERICK and JOHN SAUNDERS. McManmon had the Mono­gram men in stitches about his square petunia and I mean real belly laughs plus tears, with hi phone call to LBJ, who had to remind him tha Ladybird %**a5 on the other end. John was great and those that knew him stated he was that wa­while on the campus. I would like to send a pic-^ ture of his directors. He gave me his card, bu^ I don't think that Uncle Sam will mail to hi phone number only without a cit>' or slate. Missin JOHN SAUNDERS' address also. 
Remember, please, 1918'ers, as wc get older ­word from and about you is that much mot appreciated. So you drop a note now or have yoi' wife or grandchild send a word to: JIM ARN; STRONG, Alumni sec'y.; JOHN LAUGHLIN, n: ed., ALUMNUS; CH.\RLES CALL, class pres.; GBW. 3303. Let's hear from evcr^-one on our 19­roster. 
From the Alumni Office: S>*mpathy to the niece and nephew of JOH" RAAB, who died in September after nearly 
years at the Veterans Hospital in West Lafayette, Ind. John, a law graduate, was formerly a city judge and prosecutor in Mishawaka and very active 
|in the St. Joseph Dcniocratic parly as wrll as reli­"gioiis actixitics. Rcquicscat in pace. 
Theodore C. Radcmaker 
•19 
Peru Foundx7 Co, Peru, Ind. 

»
From the Alumni Office: Holiday Innkeeper FRANK SWEENEY, now swamped with visitors in South 6cnd to sec the triumphant Irish, was busy in September with another kind of campaign. General chairman of the' Kiv^'anis* annual newspaper sale for the benefit of handicapped children in the South Bend area, recruited a fine crew of helpers, including the fire department, to raise several thousand dollars for tlic cause. Sympathy to the family of LEO MULQUEEN, retired as chief architect for the Veterans Adminis­tration, who passed away recently. 
Come ALIVE in '65/ 

Class of '20 Anniversary 45 REUNION—June 11-12-13 
• J A Jaxn^ H. Ryan 170 Maybrook Rd. Rochester, N.V. 

From the .Mumn! Office: As the reunion roster shows, the office tempo­rarily lost track of PR. JIM CONNERTON CSC. Listed as a chaplain at South Bend's St. Joseph Hospital, he has long been out in Hollywood with the Rosary Crusade-Family Theater operation of PR. PAT PAYTON CSC. ED DORAN ought to be ready for reunion re­laxation (xme next June. Ed and son Jack '51 have certainly been busy with South Bend's Doran. Nfanion, Kamm & Boynton since law partner PAT MANION has been so much in demand on the conser\'ative vanguard. 
•J l Dan W. Duflfy 1101 Superior BIdg. Cleveland, Ohio 

Here is an item that will certainly be interesting to the members of the Class of 1921. 
BERNARD CARNEY wrote to remark the dearth of items in the last issue. "Realizing that this is an indication of the scarcity of important ne\%-s, I thought that you might be able to use something relatively unimportant suck as the item enclosed. . . ." B. R. was modestly referring to a long story in the Tulsa Trihtmc telling about his retire­ment in September from the Warren Petroleum Corp. after more than 35 years in the gas industr>'. 
Starting u-ith ^ipsco in South Bend, he ""as an executive of several oil and gas companies, includ­ing Shell and Shamrock, before joining Warren in 1948 as manager of the gas division. At retirement he headed the gas regulations and residue sales division. "Perhaps the word retirement should be in quotes," Bemie wrote, "since I am still busy on a part-time basis with Warren, and indications are that I will be occupied for the next year with ^•arious consulting assignments." At least he'll have more time for such avocations as tvoodworfclng, geology, American history, collecting firearms and old books (ND Memorial Library, take note). He and his wife Maple have a son, Richard, a daugh­ter, Joanne, and five grandchildren. 
CHET GRANT took issue with the squib on 
•iim in the Aug.-Sept. issue: "I'd like to have it 
Conveyed that my interest in Notre Daroc is not fully comprehended by 'things athletically Irish.' The football ordcai is intimately identified, in my mind, with Notre Dame's incumbent bid for aca­demic recognition In terms that unfairly disparage our academic standards and aspirations dating back at least to my enrollment in 1915 as a twenty-thrce-year-old newspaper man. It's true that JESS HARPER innted me to enter Notre Dame because he'd seen me play basketball and had heard that r dabbled in football and baseball. But my No. I reason for accepting was exemplified by the first question KNUTE ROCKNE asked me when we met in the main building just after I had received my first schedule of classes: 'Who is your instruc­tor in English I?' When I told him, he said. 
HARLEY L. McDEViTT '29 Scholastic to Geographic^ an Ad Exec 

The National Geographic Society has announced the appointment of Harley L. McDevJtt as Director of Advertising of the National Geographic Magazine, 
Harley (often called "Mac") joined the Magazine*s advertising staff in July, 1934. as a representative in Philadelphia. He became automotive manager in 1953, work­ing largely in Detroit. In 1959 he was ap­pointed Eastern manager, and he was made advertising manager in 1962. In his new assignment his headquarters will continue to be in the advertising office of the Na­tional Geographic Magazine, 630 Fifth Avenue, New York. Executive and edi­torial offices of the Society are at 17 and M Streets NW, Washington, D.C. 
A football manager and member of the Blue Circle, Harley got his first magazine experience as business manager of the Scholastic before graduation from the Col­lege of Commerce. Prior to joining the National Geographic advertising staff, he was employed by Condc Nast Publications as an advertising representative on Vogue and House & Garden. During ^Vorld War II, he ser\'ed in the Navy as a lieutenant commander, for a time as executive officer of Naval training at Columbia University. His home is in Montclair, New Jersey. 
National Geographic Magazine has re­gional advertising offices in New York, Chi­cago, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. The Magazine is received each month by some four million members of the Society. 
'Good — Father Crumley is great with words.* My listing with the 1921 class, as you know, is an arbitrary choice, a compromise with my matricula­tion in 1913 and my status quo as a perpetual undergraduate, a matter of unfinished business over which Notre Dame had no control. . It doesn't require a scholastic degree to appreciate that the common denominator of academic and athletic activity is education, does it? I hope not, because I want my opinion to bear some weight when I rate Rocknc and ARA PARSEGHIAN as educators in the finest sense of the word, including the ability* to articulate their views and counsel witli credit to Notre Dame's purely academic standing. 
"In context with the mention of me In the ALUMNUS Is this remark: 'The spirit of "Bear­skin" may yet haunt the Era ot Ara.* The impli­cation may be that 'Bear3kin' Is identified with football success. But I must ask a retraction of the contextual suggestion that I have ever been Identi­fied %vith 'Bearskin* in spirit or letter. As In the past, I categorically deny ever ha%-ing contributed word or thought to the column signed 'Bearskin* — that Is, knowingly. I've had reason to believe Rocknc, the sports editor of the Tribune In the early 1920's and BOB SINGLER. the butcher*$ son, were involved. IVc no idea who authored 'Bearskin^s' commentary after Rock's death. Any resemblance between 'BearsklnV obser^-atlons and mine has been pure coincidental." 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe
•22 
175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester, N. Y. 

We regret exceedingly to announce that there are three more beloved classmates whom we cannot again sec in this life. God has called them to join the *22 group In heaven. Here are the names of the deceased, and the home addresses: JOHN A. MULDOON JR., .1410 Sheridan Road, Wilmett.-. 111., died July 1; PAUL A. MULCAHY, 46 Sharon St., Geneva, N.Y., died July 18; ^VILLUM H. POWERS, 528 Ridge Ave., State College, Pa., died August 29. We extend our loving sympathy and prayers to ^^fIdows, children and Other close rela­tives of the deceased. Also, we tender our condo­lences to RICHARD W. McCARTY. who resides at 120 36th St., N.E., Canton 4, Ohio, on the death of his sister, Louise C. McCarty at Lynn, Mass., on August 17. 
J. FRANK (RANGY) MILES, our very popular classmate of South Bend who has contributed much toward the success of all of our Class reunions on the campus, ^vas given a gala retirement dinner by 170 fellow w'orkers of the Indiana and Michigan Electric Co. at the K of C Hall on July 30 in South Bend. Rangy closed out nearly 40 years of ser\-ice as division supervising engineer of I & M Electric in their South Bend engineering depart­ment. A presentation was made of a 19" portable television set and a card signed by 450 co-workers wishing Rangy much happiness and good health in his retirement days. Rangy has been very ac­tive in South Bend community affairs since his campus days. He has been a member of the South Bend City Planning Commission since 1946, and its president since 1937. Also he has been a member of the Board of Zoning Appeals since 1949 and iti chairman since 1953. Rangy is now in his second term as President of the ND National Monogram Club (fint time in 1951) and In 1938 was South Bend's K of C "Man of the Year.** Rangy, we of '22 salute you with our fondest wishes for the golden years ahead with your dear wife, Camilla, and your son. Jack. Of one thing we are confident 
— you will not be Idle, because you are not built that way. 
Your secretary is pleased to report he enjoyed a grand luncheon visit in Jacksonville, Fla., in July %«th a classmate FRED (FRITZ) BAUMER, vice-president of Steward Mellon Co. of Jacksonville, engineering experts In installation' "of ' "terrazzo, marble, granite, ceramic tile and composition floors and with LOUIS J. FINSKE *19, president of Florida State Theaters operating a chain of 60 theaters. The trio had lots of ND subject matter to discuis. Fritz resides in Jacksonville, and Louis lives in Fonte Vedra Beach, Fla. Subsequently Fritz and Peg Baumer were host and hostess to your secretary at a fine dinner In honor of his visit to Jacksonville. 
Here are some new addresses: EDIV.ARD B. BAILEY, Green Manor, Apt. K-4, Green &. John­son Sts., Philadelphia 44, Pa.; FRANK W. CON­NELLY, 859 Hugo Reid Dr., Arcadia, Cal.; JEROME F. DIXON, 329 Kedzic St., Evanstoa, III.; JAMES FRANCIS MURTAUGH, 1405 Judson Ave., Evanston, 111.; CLARENCE RALPH SMITH, Box 609 Bemidji, Minn. The DAN YOUNGS of Drcxel Hill, Pa., are on the move again. On August 25 they were in Balestrand, Norway, and were headed for Oslo, Helsinki, Copenhagen, Berlin and Ireland. FR. GEORGE R. FISCHER, CSC of the Holy Cross Mission Band (Eastern Province) was at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York during August. 
From the Alumni Office: CLARENCE E. (PAT) &fANION was at the peak of his oratory at the height of the Gold­water campaign, appearing at club meetings and 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
on hi» popular radio forum in defense of ibe 
'"dead"' US Constitution, the John Birch Society, 
the traditional immigration quota system, political 
morality and "old-fashioned patriotism.'' He de­
nounced the rising tide of "internationalism'* and 
**anti-constitutional" US Supreme Court power, 
calling on Congress to curtail the high court's 
appellate jurisdiction. Several of the Manion chil­
dren have been politically vocal in South Bend, 
and daughter Diana ivas reccHily named "Miss St. 
Joseph County Young Republican." 
The 1957 Notre Dame Man of the Vcar of the 
ND Club of the St, Joseph Valley, FRANK NHLES, 
announced his retirement in July from the Indiana 
& Aficiugan Electric Co., %*'hcrc he wss an engineer^ 
ing supervisor, after 40 years of service with the 
company. Frank bad just finished his term as na­
tional president of the ND Monogram Club and 
continues as president of the South Bend Planning 
Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals. Often 
honored for civic and religious actinty and now 
circuit court jur>- commissioner, "Rang\*" has ac­
cepted two ND Man of the Year awards, one in 
behalf of son JACK MILES '47 in 1950 for his 
heroic fight against polio. Class Secretary Jack 
writes the highly entertaining *47 column. 
Another great athlete of the Class, DR. EDDIE 
ANDERSON, has announced his retirement as 
football coacli of Holy Cross U. after his 39th 
M-ai-on as dean of major college coaches. Tiie for­
mer Irish captain and end amassed about 200 
\-ictories in his career witli several colleges in 
addition to his medical work, developing several 
ke>- football maneuvers and such stars as Iowa's 
Nile Kinnick and Holy Cross' Bill Osmanski. He 
coached the Collccr .All-Stars to a memorable 
x-ictory in 1950. 
•^^ horns V. Bruggncr 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Ind. 
For raontlis there has existed here in the sec­
retariat of the Class of 1923 a dearth of news 
wliich I fear is contradiciorv* to the old adage 
that *'no news is good nc%«." We have been re­
porting for so long the sad demise of classmates 
that this scardty of news has an ominous note. 
Therefore I can report the happy triria of re­
tirements, safaris and such. M.\RTIN H. BREX­
NAN, for instance, writes that he retired . from 
business on Oct. 1, 1963. and has foimd himself 
eminently equipped for a life of loafing. ED^VARD 
P. KREIMER, similarly retired from his work with the Indiana S: Michigan Electric Co. on Jan. 
1. 1964, has been revelling in things philatelic, cartographic and green-thumbic 
J. STANLEY BRADBURY has been reaping wide honors in the environs of Robinson, HI. Last spring he was elected president of the Big Brothers and Sisters Assn. of Illinois. A week later he vrzs elected a member of the Board of Trustees of Merom Institute of Merom, Ind., outied and op­erated by the United Churcli of Christ. The fact of the attendance of Stan's mother at the institute in I87I and the ren^-al this year of the Institute's Ecumenical Center (which seeks to bring all faiths together) are given as the reasons for Stan's ac­ceptance of Board membership. The Big Brother movement, closely related to Stan's duties as state's attorney, seeks to send fe^vcr boj-s to prison and to salvage more of our youth for decent citizenship. 
Long unheard from by this correspondent^ £D RYAN CE '23 \%Totc in late spring: ". . . I'm still in good health and working for Testing Ser\*­ice Corp. .. . testing concrete . . . making sieve analj'ses on sand, gravel zad crushed rock . . . inspection on pavement . . . Put in 30 years with the State Highway and Illinois Toll Commission . , . am still single. . . ." 
Space docs not permit quoting the lamentations of HIR.\M HENRY HUNT, the Dccorah, lo^va, revcnooer, regarding his difficulties in his waning years portaging a 10-h.p. motor around on his Canadian ^-acation. Hi actuallv ^vrote to me asking for the address of classmate MATTHE W Mc-INERNY, which I was happily able to furnish. Getting old class buddies together by mail has been one of the more rewarding phases of this sec­retariat. , . . Hi added a footnote that he bad traded his 10-horse motor (breed unknown) for a 9i4-h.p. Johnson. 

HARRV FL.4NNERY, a former president of the Catholic Assn. for International Peace, ivas the author of an article in Our Sunday Xlsitor, dated June 34, 29G4, entitled "War Against War — CAIP Shows the ^Vay." Membership in the asso­ciation is open to all Catholics, and interested ND men are asked to write either to Flanncry, c/o .AFL News-Reporter, 901 Massachusetts Ave. 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
N.W., Washington 1, D.C., or direct to the CAIP, 1312 Massachusetts Ave. N.W., Washington D.C. 20005. 
GEORGE UHLMEYER, another of our Class* retirees, telephoned this office from the campus on .Aug. 12, where he was visiting "with a friend." 
RUSTY KENNEDY and his charming wife paid a short, short visit to the Bruggners' home on Sept. 2, on the occasion of the entrance of their son as a freshman at ND. 
Uncertain that this material has appeared in a prerious issue of the ALUMNUS, I report the death on April 14. I9&4, of DONALD J. Mac-DONALD, ('I9-'2I) of Duluth, Minn. Word \vas belatedly received from his widow, Marie, in a letter to me. Don died in St. Mary's hospital of an aneurism. He had been working CTcry day and spent most of his life in Dululh. He is sun-ivcd in addition to his wife, by two sons, Donald of Billings, Mont., Robert of Duluth and one daughter, Mar>* Kathrv-n. 
JACK NORTON, judging from a laconic post card postmarked 28 IX 1964, Montreal, was languishing somewhere in the Queen Elizabeth hotel in that dty "watching the Nebraska-ifinne­sota NCA.A game'* and ready to ring TERRY BRENN-AN'S neck, who was announdng that game, because Terry announced the Notre Damc-Wisconsin score only twice, "all my nails are gone . . . well . . .' 6:25 says NT) 31 — Wisconsin 7." 
From the Alumni Office: Secretary LOU BRUGGNER started another busy year in September as president of the Board of Scliool Trustees tor the South Bend Commu­nity School Corp. The School Board launched a study of teacher salaries, fringe benefits, etc. 
FRA.XCIS 1\'ALLACE, the Bard of Bellaire, O., reported a freak accident in a thunderstorm in late summer. The golf cart in which he was riding ejected him violently, pursued him and caught him, breaking his left ankle and six ribs, bruising his shoulder, etc. "I nou- know," wrote Frank, "how a passer feels with 1400 pounds on him." He had to miss the All-Star Game but hoped to make some ND games. 
*^A James IL Meehan 301 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 
From the .Mumni Office: AL CASTELUNI, Cincinnati's genial vice-presi­dent of the national Alumni .\5sn«, missed the .'Mumni Board meeting on the UCLA game week­end, but we expect him to be aboard for the Januarv' session. 
Come ALIVE in '65/ 
Class of '25 Anniversary 40 REUNION--June 11-12-13 
•J C John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdalc Rd. Toledo, Ohio 
From the Alumni Office: .\s usual, the spark of JL\f ARMSTRONG'S ora­tory kindled a flame—this time at the September meeting of the Midwest College Placement .Assn. at French Lick, Ind. College and industrial employ­ment directors applauded Alumni Secretary Ann­strong's call for new inter-instiiutional and inler­disciplinarv* job programs to combat such modern employment problems as automation displacement, corporate mergers, teclmical obsolescence, etc. 
A. J. PORTA was recently elected president of South Bend's St. Joseph Hospital Lay Adrisorv Board, which includes Judge JOE N^7K6 S ^23 and insurance exec FRANK SULLI\'AN '49 among its members. 
Since the .August Sugar Bowl partv H.ARRY STUHLDREHER, ELMER L.\YDEN and the rest of the Horsemen have made the usual myriad of appearances at dinners and meetings, and Harry's wife Mary has got into the act with her entertain­ing book, which AfcKay publishers have promoted verv- successfully. Teammate JOE H.\RMON is working this season as athletic director of Indian­apolis Chatard High School. Joe coached Indian­apolish Cathedral to city football championship honors in the Forties. 
"26 Fnuik A. Dcide 1763 Kcsslcr Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 
From the .Alumni Office: 
J. NORBERT GELSON has been in business fi about a vcar with Gelson and Lowell, Inc., insi;. ance brokers, at 200 E. 42nd St, in New York, T'. firm, providing all forms of insurance for indiv-. uals and industry, was formed in November, ISt. 
KENNETH E. COOK MA '26, the alumni .. . minbtration counterpart of our JIM ARMSTRON"; at St. Louis U., suffered a tragic loss last Aug, ] when his 15-year-old son Eugene was killed in -••••-. automobile accident. Tlie particular sympathy ai i prayers of classmates join the general prayers a::'. masses of the Alumni Assn. 
•^ 7 Clarence J. Ruddy € 
• ' 32 S. lUvcr Street Aurora, HI. 

.•\ few months ago I was dismayed to Icar:i that VAN \VALLACE had died. We all virid!-­rememhcr the shock we received when Van h,:i! that tragic accident while still a student whirh made him bed-ridden for the rest of his life. Ev-r since that time he %vas a symbol of courage ar..{ determination in adversity. His presence at foc;­ball games and class reunions was evidence of hU exemplary Christian character. His mother sui­nvcs him. I wrote to her after Van's death an i said shr deserved a tribute for helping him unremi^ tingly in his affliction for so many years. Van de­serves our prayers; his mother deserves that her remaining years be serene. 
We have sustained several more deaths in recent months: FRANCIS LEARV of Houston, Tex.; GEORGE SADLIER of Indianapolis, Ind.; and ARDIS .MELLOH of Indianapolis, Ind. In the latter part of December I was advised that BILL GATE of Wyandotte. Midi., had also passed away. Wt will all remember Bill particularly for the way he entertained Ms with his guitar at reunions. He was a good and interesting companion as wi-H as a devoted Notre Dame man. He left two sons who arc Notre Dame alumni — WILLIAM JR. '57 and JOHN G. '61. 
BORIS EPSTEIN died in September. Boris was 

a quiet unassuming man, sincere and friendly. He 
lived in Chicago and kept up his interest in th ^ 
University throughout the years. v 
While in Convention Hall In .August as a Dele­

gate to the Democratic National Convention, I 
happened to be with TOM NASH of Chicago, a 
Democrat of long standing. While con*"crsing. an­
other classmate came up to us. This was BILL 
K.\VANAUGH. Bill, of course, is with the .Amer­
ican Cyanamid, whose home base is in New Jersey, 
and Bill was acting as one of the hosts. I am 
not sure whether Bill's presence can be construed 
as an indication of his politics or not, but both 
Tom and I were glad to sec him in any event. 
'28 ^"^ ^' ^"^^>' 
68.10 108th St Forest HUIs, N.Y. g 
BOL.AN BURKE died in his sleep on July 10. 

1954 in New Orleans. Bolan was graduated from 
the Yale Law School and upon the death of !iis 
father, assumed presideno' of a general insuiancc 
agcnc>\ Burke, Soniat & HarrcII Inc. He * a$ 
single- He returned for our 20- and 25->'-3r 
reunions. FATHER MULRE.AN'Y offered a M « 
for Bolan at the request of the Class. 
I returned to Notre Dame for the funeral of FR. .MICHAEL MULCAIRE CSC, who died i n­cTpecicdly as the result of a coronary on Sept. '0­Father Mike, ivho was a close friend of our CI •« and of mine, was buried near the spot where he spoke to us on our risit to the Community Cc: e­tary at our 35th reunion. He will be missed by Jk of us. It w-as through Father Mike's classes tl " I first became interested in economics. He r so gave me my first job as instructor at Notre Va: e. 
The s>'inpailiv of the Class is extended to JA-K DOYLE on the death of his wife and to GEOP ^E MILLER on the death of his father. 
BERNIE G.ARBER and I had lunch with T M BOV just before he left on a vacation tri' to .Africa. Tom, who is still single, has been • :cf engineer on an Esso oil tanker since gradur. ;n. He reports that his brother Ray is still with " 'A \nctor in New Jersey. JOHN RICKORD loc us out to dinner this past summer while he w in Ncii* York representing Annour Packing Co. ^n \-isited packing plants in Moscow, Holland. F- •« and England on a recent assignment. In Buf ' I 
t 

talked to BILL DOWDALL, who advised that he was visiting Moscow tliis fall. GEORGE COURY was In Lebanon recently to dedicate a school he t^a d built in his home \^l]age honoring his father 
"and mother. DR. JOE SULLIVAN *29 is now officer-in­charge at the Public Health Clinic in lower Man­hattan. Joe and hh u-ifc h've in Staten Island. They have three girls, one of whom was married bv FATHER N!ARK FITZGERALD CSC. At lunch %vith Dr. Joe, the names of TOM WALSH, ED PHILBIN, JACK AMNGERTER and WILLARD WAGNER were mentioned. Dr. Joe said that he had seen NORB CWANAUGH in Portland, Oregon where he had been prc\'iously stationed. I saw ED SMITH in South Bend this summer. Ed, who practices law, was a Republican candidate for judge at the time. 
_ I had sessions with Judge BILL JONES, both in 
jNew York and Washington this summer. Bill is ver>' enthusiastic about his work on the US Dis­trict Court in Washington, D.C. Bill's daughter Barbara is appointment sccrctar>- for Senator Mike Mansfield. Judge Jones gave the commencement address this year at Carroll College — 33 years after he first went there as athletic director and football coach. Bill had received a letter from FR. ANDY MULREfVNY of Killeen, Tex., who mentioned that he had seen BILL MURPHY in Texas and FRANK KELLY in Lee, Mass. 
It was a pleasant surprise to meet JOHN SUL­LIVAN '29 at the National Catholic Social Action Conference in Boston this summer. John has re­covered from the serious injuries he received as one 
"^f the few surv*ivors of a Mohawk Airlines crash in Rochester over a year ago. He is well on the road to recovery and expects to return to his work with the New York State Commission Against Dis­cnmination. I also cnj'oycd haWng an opportunity to sec BILL BROWN from Milwaukee at the Bos­ton Conference. 
D.AN CUNNINGHA.M '27 and I participated as leaders of a workshop on discrimination in em­ployment at the Eastern Seaboard Catholic Leader­ship Conference on Long Island. Dan is a fellow resident of Forest Hills, N.Y. DR. Dx\N BRAD­LEY is active in the Catholic Interracial CouaeU of Long Island and is now working with a group tr>*ing to improve slum conditions. Dan also con­tinues his interest in medical ethics which he dis­cussed at the Catholic Hospital Chaplain's Con­vention this summer in Xew Vork Cit>-. 
Public Safety Commissioner DONALD CORBETT 

Pof Rochester, N.Y,, was very much in the nc^vs and on national TV dnrins the Rochester riots this sum­mer. I talked to Don this summer in Rochester. One of his sons is active in New York City in the Kennedy campaign for Senate. Don. who is a widower, has four sons and a daughter. 
Afy Freshman Hall roommate, JOE BR^VNNON spent several months writing a book on Scars after his retirement from Sears in April, 1963, He is now district manager for Wards and is located in Phoenuc, Ariz. .•Vt the present writing Joe is busy campaigning for Barry Goldu-atcr, ifhom Joe kno»*s intimately. 
The film of our 25ih reunion was shoun to the Class of '29 at their 35th reunion this year with ED QUINN providing the commentary. Ed ad­vised that our classmate JOHN V. McMANNON spoke to the group, VINCE CARNEY also reported that he, PHIL CENEDELLA, JOE BREIG and BILL BROWN attended the '29 reunion. ED QUINN informed mc that JOHN LEITZENGER, JOHN AN*TUS and TOM UWELLE were back to Notre Dame to see their sons graduate this year. Ed also noted that the son of Judge BOB GR.\NT was graduated with honors from Xf.I.T. Bob's boy made quite a name for himself as a member and captain of the M.I.T. swimming team. I certainly agree with VINCE G\RNEY that the neu- library-at Notre Dame is the glor>- of the campus. The magnificent mosaic mural, donated by HOWIE PHALIN, which is eleven stories in height, is most impressive. Incidentally, there was an excellent arti­^de in the Chicago Sun-Times on Afay 24, about 
fH< [OWIE PHALIN as a philanthropist. JIM BOEHNING'S sister, who was a New York visitor, told me that Jim is making progress in his recovery from the serious injury he suffered when he and his wife were struck by a car in Indianapolis. 
BOB B.\NNON tells me that his sister, who is in the Charity Order of Nazareth, Ky., is taking graduate work in chcmistr>' at Notre Dame. She is the sixth Bannon to attend Notre Dame, in­cluding Bob, his son and his three brothers. Is Bob the first to have both a son and a sister at Notre Dame? Bob visited FR. MIKE MULCAIRE at Notre Dame this summer. 
FR. JIM McSHANE SJ %%-rote from Casa Curel, 

CLASS OF '28 party after the UCLA game 

Oct. 17 saw Mr. and Mrs. Howard Phalin 
(left) presented by classmate Leo Mcln> 
tyre with a framed view of the campus 
dominated by the Memorial Library mural 
which they donated to the University. 
El Progrcso, Varo, Honduras, C.A., that he has 
completed a brochure explaining why he wants a 
Vocational school in his mission there. Jim would 
appreciate hearing from you. 
JOHN IGOE has two sons at Notre Dame. The 

son of JOHN -ANTUS, who finished at Notre Dame 
this year, is at George Washington Medical School. 
The Cinciimati Enquirer carried an article on Aug. 3, 1954, concerning the outstanding work JIM SHOCKNESSY continues to do as Ohio's Turnpike Commission chairman. Jim is character­ized as "the hard-driving bachelor" and is re­ferred to as "the Har\'ard Warwick.*' Jim, an elected delegate to the Democratic convention, has been called upon by the Republican govenor to ex­pedite construction of the Interstate 71 freeway and to settle a strike of construction equipment op­erators. Jim Is a knight grand cross of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre by papal appointment and holds an honorary* doctorate from Wilberforcc U., where he heads the Wilbcrforce Foundation, 
EUGENE FARRELL, editor of the Jersey Jour­nal, reports that he had a good get-together with BERNIE BIRD. Inddcntly, Bemie managed one of the early campaigns of Vice-Presidential Candidate Miller. Gene inquired as to whether anyone has heard from CLIFF TROMBLEY of River Rogue. Mich.? Gene also met the daughter of LEO FLEWELLING, \vho came to the New York Fair. BOB HA.MILTON, who is kept busy as s>stems stores mgr. with Pan American World .Airways, has a daughter at Ma\'\vood College at Scranton, Fa. 
Class Vice-President ART CAN*TY tells mc that SAM DUNNE has been in Sacramento since 1930 «i':h Farmer's Rice Cooperative. EDDIE PHILBIN from Clinton, Mass., stopped to sec Sam recently-Sam hears from JIM HURLBERT, who is a de­partment store executive in Detroit. Sam has a daughter at the U. of Santa Clara and a son in high school. JOE E. MORRISSEY is with the Coos Bay Iron Works in Coos Bay, Ore. He has a daugh­ter teaching in ^^iddIctown, Conn., and a son at the 
U. of Oregon. Joe's daughter took classes from FR. CHARLES MILTNER at the U. of Portland. 
^Vc are grateful to Class President BERNIE GARBER for the excellent mailing he sent to each member of the Class in September. Thanks also to FRANCIS MEYER, JOE HILGER and the other classmates who supply me ^^i•ilh pictures such as those used by Bcmie in his September mailing. 
Thanks to BILL D\\TER*s though tfulness in sending me a Sept. 23, '64, clipping from the Chicago Daily Neu-s, I am pleased to announce the appointment of HOWIE PH.\LIN as president of the Field Enterprises Educational Corp. Howie, during his more than 30 years of service with the company, has held evcr>' selling title from that of beginning salesman to North American director of sales. Congratulations, Howie, on this important assignment. 
GEORGE COURY arranged a dinner get-together with ART DENCHFIELD and GEORGE LEPPIG white I was attending a conference in Miami. I had not seen George Leppig in 34 years. He has two children in high school and is an ofHcial in the OflTcc of the SherifT of Dade Count>'. George re­ports that he saw PINKY M,-\RTIN, who is em­ployed in Pituburgh with the State of Pennsylvania and who still finds time to umpire ball games. George Coury, in addition to being chairman of the International Bank of Miami, is sow iuierested Jo developments in Freeport on Grand Bahama Island. His picture appeared in the Miami News while I was in the city ^vith a story about the school which had been donated by George in honor ot his par­ents in their native village in Lebanon. 
It was great seeing F. X. JIM O'BRIEN in Miami after 38 years. Jim, who is with Goodbody & Co., is one of my best sources of news for the '28 column, .\lthough Jim was on the first U. of Miami Hurricane football team in 1926, he is still very much interested in the ND Class of *28. I at­tended a Japanese cocktail party with. Jim, who helped reorganize the Tokyo Stock Exchange after WW II. Jim has five children and 12 grand­children. 
I just heard the bad news that PAT CANNY sufTercd a stroke. I trust that by the time this ap­pears in print, Pat will be well on the road to re­covery. 
From the .\lumni Office­
Chicago's CECIL ALEXANDER qualified for top sales honors in the President's Club in his first year with National Ufe Insurance Co, of Vermont. 
DR. ANDREW BOYLE*s change of assistant dcanships from the ND College of Saence to the Freshman Year of Studies has him shuttling con­stantly between Nicuwiand Science Hall and the Main Bldg. .Andy continues as a part-time chem­istry prof. 
Secretary IX>U BUCKLEY, since his stint at Fordham's Guidance Institute in July, has been ranging farther south, h>s Miami appearance sup­plemented by a September management conference at the University of Puerto Rico in San Juan. 
When a lovely Purdue coed named Patricia Mary Crowley was widely pictured in Indiana as queen of the Hillsdale Rose Festival last June. BOTTS CROHXEY wrote JIM ARMSTROSCi "WIM makes you say she does not look like her father?" 
Gleanings from Pres. BERNIE GARBER and ND Testing Head ED QUINN on the UCLA game party follow below. 
In his new executive post HOWARD PHALIN continues to assist Chicago's Sisters of Mercy. He's chairing another $9 million Mercy Hospital drive. And **'e have clips from Akron, Cincinnati, Clc**e­land, Columbus and Springfield editorially extolling JIM SHOCKNESSY on the I6th anniversary of the Ohio Turnpike Commission under his chairman­ship. 
From BERN GARBER: 
"DR. CARL A. PETTERSCH is now director of graduate studies and extension services at Danbury Connecticut State College. 
"Grand Central brightens when I cross paths with ^VALTER DONNELLY. '29 buyer, once a good neighbor in Morrissey. Waller has a daughter at Rosemont. I saw DOC GELSOX '26 and a son admiring General Motors' fine exhibit at the World's Fair in October. (You're welcome, AL NORMAN.) DICK 'MUNCIE' GREENE phoned roe from the Fair. He had a niece and nephew on tour. 
"Robert M. Callagy, son of deceased classmate BUD CALLAGY, married Lynn E. Rhaligan, Oct. 10, in Stamford. He is a Georgetown grad and lawyer. 
"TO.M MAHON urotc HOWIE PHALIN on Oct. 8 that his older son was ill and earnestly asked prayers for his recovery. (Please pray.) In the same letter he said TOM TRAUGHBER was in Minneapolis' .^bbott Hospital with a heart ailment. Remember him too. 
"I talked with ADRL\N LOPEZ, Oct. 7, at N'Y ND Communication Club lunch. We compared notes on sons at NT). 
"JOE SHANNON passed up our Oct. 17 '28 . cocktail party in favor of electioneering for Gold­ivater. With the high attendance, he could have done both. Joe pledged his election bet winnings to NT>'s Challenge II fund. 
"Thanks to chairman ED QUINN moving the party to larger quarters, ninety-some persons were accommodated, ^fany classmates were able to come at the last minute without reservations, affecting the food supply but not the liquids. 
"I had a pleasant post-rally evening with Mr. and Mrs. VINCE WALSH, up from ifonticcllo with their genial neighbors. Dr. and Mrs. Allman, honorary '28 members. Jim and 5frs. Cooncy (Foundation office) joined us, bringing lots of in­formation on ND's future. The Walshes have a 12-.ycar-old daughter and a son. Class of '63, a Naw officer now in the Orient. 
"ED McSWEENEY, Freshman Hall roommate, greeted me at the Morris Inn. He had just walked out from South Bend. He retired from Scars in 
Notre Dame Alumntis, Year End, 1964 37 
'63. Ed is exactly the sainc weight (and appearance) as lie was in 1924. Saturday noon, son Michael and I had lunch with Jim, Catherine -Mian and their friends, including Tom Medland. At the *28 party-, a color film taken by Jim Jr. (ND and Har\-ard law) at our 35th reunion, was shown lor the first time. Don't miss the next opportunity to »ec it—it's professional and historical. 

•'After the partv I had dinner with JOE GRIF­FIN, BILL BROVN, JOHN IGOE, their wives and John's children, two of whom arc at ND. Educa­tion, ND, children, the *nc\v* Catholicism and politics were fully discussed. 
"Later, JOE HILGER, his wife and I visited the Vince Walshes. Joc said VINCE G^REVs son Kevin is a senior In ND Law School, Tlic ICIgers' son, ND alumnus, is with Price, Waterhousc in Philadelphia, following graduate work at Temple. Their daughter, St. Mary's college, attended our '28 party at the Waldorf in 1963. 
"MAURY INGRAM, one of our few '28 archi­tects, was back on campus the first time in 12 years. His son in St. Louis is also an XD architect. 
"Fr. MARK FITZGERALD u-as greeted by sev­eral nearsighted classmates as FATHER ^fUL-REANY, FATHER SHEEDV, etc He smiled pa­tiently, accustomed to our x-agaries. 
"FRANK MEYER used his Polaroid for instant snaps, destined for Buckley's file. Lou was home in Forest Hills, recovering from GEORGE COURY's party in his honor. One of Frank's pictures was that of LEO McINT\*RE presenting a framed color photo of the new library" to Howie and 'Pete' Piialin. (Leo was starting the Challenge III pro­gram) Leo has a second son, Nfichael, in the class of *68. Lee graduated in '64. 
"Ed Quinn helped all at the party by pro\-iding legible name tags for classmates. Discerning Cath­erine Allan suggested having them for the uivcs loo next time—an excellent idea. 
''Someone at the party (who?) said PAT Q^NY was then in a Cleveland hospital, quite ill. Hope I'm mistaken on this. Next day Ed Quinn told me of the death of DE.AN KONOP, father of class­mate BILL KONOP. Our s\Tnpathy to Bill. Ed and the dean were often golf partners. 
*'Bud Topping and I discussed Stepinac High. White Plains, and ND. Two of his sons arc XD alumni and a third a junior at Stepinac 
"S3 . Tribune duties alloivrd GEORGE SCHEUER to take his youngest son to the game but regrettably kept George from our get-together. George has a nephew from Long Island enrolled tn the freshman class. 
**Aftcr seeing JIM ALLAN JR.'s fine reunion film, a group of wives (Mrs. JOHN RICKORD, ^pokesman) asked to have wives included at the next reunion in 1968. I promised a survey of class opinion. Write me what vou think: 336 Cherry- St.. Bedford Hills, N.Y. 
"If someone says you were at the *28 party and you were not, attribute it to the marvelous reunion film in which you appeared bigger than life. 
"Post-game parties arc too short. 1 talked onlv a minute with Paul Brady. Freshman roommate and a shorter time with Mrs. Laughltn and John, ALUM­NUS editor, who iran now tell other classes how- we conduct a parly." 
From ProL ED QUIN-N: 
"I promised BERNIE GARBER that I would proWde vou with a list of the members of the class who attended the party. Here it is: Mr. and Mrs. John Frederick, Mr. and Mrs. John Lahey, Mr. and Mrs. Russell Smith, ^fr. and Mrs. Lou Norman, Mr. and Mrs. Francis Meyer, Mr. and Mrs, John Rickord, Mr. and Mrs. Richard Phclan. Mr. and Mrs. Maury Ingram, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Brown, Mr. and Mrs. Ed. R. Quinn, Mr. and Mrs. Joe Griffin, Mr. and Mrs. John Igoe, Mr. and Mrs. Joe Langton. Mr. and Mrs. Paul Brady, Mr. and .Mrs. Howard V. Plialin, Mr. \VilIiam Murphy, Mr. Bernard Garber, Fr. Louis Thornton CSC, Mr. and Mrs. Joe Morrisscy, Mr. and Mrs. Ed. Rafter, Mr. and Mrs. \^ncent Walsh, Mr. and Mrs. James .Allan, Mr. and Mrs. Joc Hilger and Pat, Mr. C. G. Topping, Mr. and Mrs. Leo Mclntyre, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Creadon, Mr. and Mrs. E. J. McKcown, Mr. and Mrs. Bemic Scbuh, Mr. and Mrs. .Art Da\TS, Mr. and Mrs. Mike Ricks, Mr. and Mrs. Tom Medland, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Dwycr and Mr. and Sfrs. Joe Doran. 
"In 2ulition to the persons above, who regis­tered, our classmates brought along guests who did not register, but for whom tbc classmates paid the fee. We had a very good crowd. I think they all had a good time.'* 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End, 1964­
J. WALTER KENNEDY '34, president of the National Basketball Assn., had a per­sonal audience last summer ^vith Pope Paul VI in connection with his work for the Boys' Towns of Italy. The Holy Father mentioned hh happy memories of Notre Dame and Father Hcsburgh, "a great man." Walt, in his many tours as publicist for the Harlem Globetrotters, also had the priWIcge of discussing ND with Popes Pius XII and John XXIII. He was mayor of Stamford, Conn-, until last year. 
I^ Q Larry Stauder 
Engineering Bldg. 
Notre Dame, Ind. 

Class officers for 1964-1969, elected at the 35th Class Reunion in June, are as follows: Hon. Pres­ident FR. MICHAEL MULCIAIRE, President JOE LENIHAN, Exec. Vice President JOHN DORGAN, 
E. Vice-President GAY HAAS, MW Vice-President BOB VOGELWXDE, So. XHce-President HUGH McNUNIGAL, W. Vice-President BILL CRONIN, Secretary-Treasurer LARRY STAUDER; Board of Directors: HANK BURNS, JOHN COLANGELO, FR.ANKL\*N DOAN, MICKEY McAMHON, JIAI CURRY, JOHN T. BURKE, WALT MULFUR, DR. JAMES TOBIN, CLETE SCHNEIDER, BOB WILLUMS, REV. LOUIS THORNTON, CSC, REV. OTIS S. WINCHESTER (chaplain), and P.\UL C. ROSS (parliamentarian). 
As you have read in this issue of the ALUMNUS, FR. MICHAEL A. .MULCAIRE CSC died suddenly of a heart attack about midday Sept. 10. On Sept. 14 his grave was the newest tn the Com­munity Cemetery at Notre Dame. 
Your secretary, with about thirty members of the Class of '29, visited the Community Cemetery on Sat., June 13. Father Mulcairc had previously been InWted to lead the group In prayer at the site. After a leisurely visit to the various areas of the cemetery, which renewed many memories, we joined with Father Mulcaire. He prefaced his prayers with some brief remarks, in a voice which was from the beginning choked with emotion, "I wish to thank you for your invitation to join With you on this visit today . . . and for the honor and privilege of being elected your honorary president at your most enjoyable Class Banquet last night . . ." 
He hesitated, then continued *', . . when you re­turn here in five years my name will be on one of the grave markers. And I ask you now, please stop there and say a prayer for 'Black Mike* .. . and may (his soul and) the souls of the faithful departed rest in peace." 
Our Class Chaplain REV. OTIS "WINCHESTER, 1770 Second St., Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, has been requested by the Class to say a Mass for Father Mulcaire, who did so much to make our Notre Dame something' into w*hich we could put our hearts and wills. Father Mulcaire is survived by four brothers including REV. JAMES MULCAIRE CSC pastor of St. Peter's Catholic Church in South Beloit, III., and four sisters, three of them CSC 
nuns. 
Father Winchester has been asked also to say 
a Mass for the repose of the soul of JOSEPH H. 
NASH at the request of the Class. A 
Joe died on Sept. 8; he had been ill for some" I 
time. Several at the Reunion phoned him in Chi­
cago at that time and had the pleasure of \-IsitIng | 
with his two ordained sons, REV. JOSEPH N.ASH 
OP '54 and REV. ED^VARD NASH OP '58, who 
were on the campus in June. 
He is survived by his wife Dorothy. 4920 Washington Blvd., Chicago, 111., and two daugh­ters, Elizabeth and Mary Nash. 
Joe was admired for being a Notre Dame man in the largest sense while an undergraduate. His record as a student, an athlete and a Christian in­dicated a promising future for him. In brief visits with him and his family at after-game get-to­gethers and Class reunions, and from news that has filtered to the column, it has been obviou^A that Joc and his family have grown in wisdom^ and grace. Wc send our most sincere sympathy, Class and persona), to hts family. The Class shares the void left by his death. 
Here is a memo irom Fatlier Otis ^VinchcsIer: "Perhaps you should have entitled mine 'Early arrivals and late departures.' My reunion began early Thursday morning when I met CLETE SCHNEIDER and HANK BURNS right after they had come from the Cleveland airport. It didn't end until Sunday evening after I had dropped Hank at the Cleveland airport, and driving home to the Falls on the Ohio Turnpike I met SAM COLARUSSO. So you can sec It was quite a long weekend. But grand. 
"One of the great thrills was Sunday mornincA Afass when the v-olces of all the classmates came ' out in all beauty. Even though some were not there, two of the Masses offered by me on the campus were offered for all of you and your in­tentions. I hope wc reached you in some way. 
"May God love you all-ways." JOE LENIHAN has been in touch with many of you this fall, at the post-game get-together aftcr thc Stanford game and otherwise. He Is now grand­father for the second time. You u-ill be bcarinE­more from him. 
REV. CHRISTOPHER OTOOLE CSC, ^VALT MULFUR and FRED WAGNER have been reccn x-isitors- to the campus. The Religious BuUetii listed H.ANK BURNS '29 as ill. We have hear': 
!>/ nothing further and trust that Hank U well on I the road to recovery. ^ From JOE SMIETANKA, attorney in Chicago: '^' I can see what I missed by not attending a re­union before the 35th. It was wonderful seeing so many of ray old friends again. The one thing that impressed me was the variety of callings that our Class has follo^ved. I don't suppose there are many catesories open — particularly when you coosider that a younger grad is shooting for a job in government. ''My wife came with me to South Bend. That put me in the guided tour business for part of the weekend. I suppose that I spent more time in the library than I did in my four years on the campus. "I am looking forward to *69. By that time we will probably be considered superannuated old timers given to discussing Rock, Chapin Street, the ^Palais Ro>-aIc, HuHy and ifike's, Afothcr*s, the Army games and those golf-bag luggers from you know where. "How times have changed!" JUDGE SAM COLARUSSO of Essex County (X.J.) District Court writes: "As you know I have been fortunate enough to make all of the reunions to date and trust tliat I will, God will­ing, sec you and the boys in '69, In fact I had planned a trip to Europe for this summer, but when I learned it was either the trip or the re­union I cancelled the trip to Europe. 
"It would take more space than uc have to 

repeat even a part of our conversations under Lyons Archway. I'll j'ust say that it was one of ."^he best groups that ever assembled for one of 
•''our reunions. Many were returning for their first time in years and it was inicrcsting to Icam of their whereabouts and progress during the past 35 years or less since 1929. 
"I missed seeing BILL KREIG. LEO MICHUDA and DOC LEONELLL 
"My wife asks that I %mte that all wives should encourage their husbands to return for the reunions. She thinks that it gives the boys renewed faith and reminds them to live and act like Our Lady would want them to Hve. 
"Each time I have brought a guest wlio was not a Notre Dame man (this time Anthony J, lulianai). I am sure that after a «-eekend on the campus in the company of our classmates under the Golden Dome they return with a feeling that they have missed somctliing and wish they could have been fortunate as we were to have attended 
i^^.'^olrc Dame. 
"Larr^% my friends who did not attend may be interested in learning that last year Governor Hughes honored me by appointing me to the Essex County Bench." 
Congratulations, Sam, and thanks for your fine letter. I am one who was here and didn't hear of your appointment. You are too modest. 
HARVEY DALY of Washington, D.C., has these comments on the reunion: "It was a real treat to see you again after some 33 years. 
" 'How it felt to be back' isn't easy to describe. Hour do I ansxvcr your query, Larr>'? Do I com­ment on the Notre Dame of '29 or on the Notre Dame of 'frl? 
"The place I knew and loved 35 years ago is gone, ^'tof course, the buildings of that era are there, but 
•^hey are symbols of a past that lives only in one's memory'. 
"The Notre Dame of '29 gave me a love of God 

and Country, an unswerving appreciation of my 
faith, and a deep and continuing interest in in­
tellectual development and truth. 
"The Notre Dame of *64 gives me a respect and 

admiration for her leadership, faculty, programs, 
curricula and student accomplishments. 
"I hope the above is somewhat helpful to you, 

Larry. 
"JIM CURRY and I toured Badin Hall, visited 

our old rooms and relived many nostalgic capers. 
LARRY MOORE and I visited FATHER LANGE 
and made a grand tour of the library and build­
ings. 
"It was a rare treat for me to see JIM CURRY, 

JERRY CROWLEY, LARRY MOORE. PAUL 
ROSS. GAYLORD HAAS, OLLIE SCHELL, JOHN 
HINKEL, DICK HAUGH, JIM TOBIN, JOE 
LENIHAN, HANK BURNS, ct al. 
"Only one thing puzzled me, Larry, and that is 

why do my classmates all look so much older than 
I do? 
"I'll see you after the Stanford game." 

DR. PAUL C. BARTHOLO.MEW wns chairman of a panel on "The Choice of Federal and State Judges'* at an early fall meeting of the American Political Science Assn. in Chicago. If you were alert in ^^•atching the TV screen during the Re­publican Convention you saw and recognized Paul on the stage, where he was parliamentarian for some of the sessions. 
NORM McLEOD writes: "The several mailings prior to our 35th reunion sold me on the idea of revisiting familiar places and faces. It ^^'as really a memorable occasion for me to see so many men return for the 35th to renew old friendships. This being my first reunion since 1929 probably handicapped me in recognizing many of the men; however, this handicap was short-lived. TONY KOPECKY hasn't lost any ground with his ap­pealing songs. I missed seeing two of the Florida flashes however. 
*'Hopc to return on the occasion of the 40th an­niversary!" 
TONY ALSOBROOK formerly of Honolulu is with Winthrop Products, Inc., 1450 Broadway, Ne^v York City. 
We will have more on the reunion and an ac­count of the Class get-together of Oct. 24 in the next issue. In the meantime please send us some 
FRANCIS KfEYER again grau'ously took many pictures during the after-game reunion and has al­ready given the Class all of them for future use. Thank you, Francis, and also BOB TROTTER and JYSi KENNEDY, for ynur appreciated prints and continued cooperation. 
From the Alumni Office: Sfccretary L.\RRY STAUDER has been elected to the national board of directors of Eta Kappa Nu, the electrical engineering honor society. He attended a directors' meeting in Los Angeles in August and also paru'cipated in the West Coast international convention of the Institute of Electrical and Elec­tronics Engineers. In between times this summer he was a resident research associate at the Argonne National Lab near Chicago. JOHN HARRINGTO.V was elected a member of the governing council of the .-\mrrican Institute of 
CPA's for three years. John is treasurer of the 
Indiana Golf Assn. and a director of the NO Club 
of Indianapolis. 
RAY HILUARD, director of the Cook County 

dcpt. of public aids, gave a lecture on "The New 
Poverty" at a symposium on "Poverty in the US" 
here at XD in October. 
Come ALIVE in '6S! 

Class of '30 Aaaiversary 35 REUNION—June 11-12-13 
1)11 Devcrc Plunkett ^ V O'Shaughnessy HaU Notre Dame, Ind. 

From the Alumni OfHcc: VIRGIL EXNER has been named to direct styl­ing and product planning for the Ducsenberg auto­mobile, which is being re\-ived in Indianapolis _on a custom assembly basis. He is now in Italy co­ordinating preliminary styling of the new Duesen­bcrg with Italian body builders (no cracks about Loren or LoUobrigida, please!), as the bodies will be handcrafted in that country but the engine and chassis will be made in the US. TOM McDOUGAL, a Langlade County (Wis.) juvenile court judge for over 13 years, whole­heartedly condemned the topless bathing suit (in a newspaper letter) for the effect it has on the morals of young people and children who also have the right to be on the beach. He said that wearing these suits is one of the best waj's he knows to start decaying the morals of a nation which already is bordering on immorality, WALT L.\NGFORD wrote an article about "Life in the Peace Corps" for the national edition of Our Sunday Visitor. DR. BILL HAMILL, prof, of chemistry at ND. participated tn a scries of conferences in Paris, Berlin and Liege, Belgium, in September. 
'31 j^ ^ ^' i^ic 
805 W. ArcadU Ave. Arcadia, Cal. 

Greetings from the Far West. During the sum­mer I received letters from several classmates. EARL BRIEGER msde a trip to Taylor, Tex., to \'i5it his family and his other kin, BILL BERNING and LOU PSENCIK, and brought Bill up to date on "the Yankee news and highlights of some of the Eastern classmates of 1931.'* Earl was elected President of the Academy of Trial Lawyers of Al­legheny County and no doubt will do an excellent job. Bill had to so some traveling during his visit and no doubt missed some fine afTaIrs while Earl u-as there. BERT MALONEY happened to be out of town at this time and missed their meeting. Bert has been busy as fund chairman of the drivr for the John F. Kennedy Memorial Lectures Fund launched by Texas Knights of Columbus. This fund will support lectures and academic programs at the new Catholic Center of the U. of Texas. 
The August issue of True Magazine carried a 
WEDDING of Betty Brecn and Teriy Desmond '63 on campus last smmncr was a reunion for many classmates of Betty's father. Jack Brecn '33 (from left): Mr. & Mrs. George Beaudin, Mr. & Mrs. Ernie Gargaro, Mr. & Mrs. Jerry Ashley, Fr. Lloyd Teske CSC, Mr. & Mrs. Breen, Mr. & Mrs. Ted Feldman (Mrs. Breen's brother), and Fr. Larry BroestL Picture was taken at the Morris Inn in July. 
•^ Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 39 
CHARLES DEDERICH '33 is supen-ising Columbia's production '*Synanon/' the second film about an ND man to star an O'Brien. 
(First -was Pat O'Brien portraying Knute Rockne.) At left Chuck confers with Edmond O'Brien, who portrays him in his struggle to reform about 500 drug addicts and outcasts in six social centers across the country. At right O'Brien conducts a fihn "synanon" coined by an addict for "symposium anonymous") in which addicts talk out their problems. Chuck credits many of his ideas to Fr. 
John Tiernan, an Irish priest who was a prefect in Dederich's hall during his two years at 
wonderful article on the activity of OLIVER FIELD, who is in charge of the American Medical Assn.*s drive to uncover and prosecute quacks and pur­veyors of cure-all "medical" equipment and medi­cines. Wc can all be proud of his active and suc­cessful work, Oliver u-as from Crystal Lake, III., but now roams the country' in his work. 
SPIKE SULLI\^AN came through willi a newsy letter. AVhilc at Commencement last June he visited u-ith ED MURRAY, JERRY CROWLEY and PAUL O'CONNOR. Spike and Paul each had a son in the Class of 19M. TOM MONAHAN's son also graduated and during his campus life roomed with MARTY SULLIVAN- Can any of us imagine sons of Sptke and Tom not rooming to­gether? C\RL CRONIN's son, Mike, was mar­ried last summer, but the Sullivans had to miss the affair. Another Chicagoan, I am sure, was on hand, EDDIE RY.AN, and many other classmates. I understand Carl is planning a trip to Ireland soon. Spike also spent some time in New York where he visited with JOHNNY BURNS, RICHIE BARBER and ED CU^7s'INGHA^L It has been some time since I have had letters from our eastern contingent, and a few good accounts of meetings at eastern Notre Dame games will be most welcome. I have had a few letters from GIL SEAMAN this summer brining mc up to date on ND Club of Chicago activities. Gil also reported the passing of Tom Collins, Sr., father of RAY COLLINS. Word has been received from the Alumni Office of the death of JOHN F. SULLI\'AN, Passaic, N.J., last July. 
FRANK LEAHY is now on the coast and living at 18290 Crestline Dr., Lake Oswego. Ore. 97034. BILL REAUME has returned from Euclid. Ohio, and is now living in ^Vaukegan, 111. DE.AN SUT­TON is now oxTrseas and may be reached at 434 Chaussee De Courtrai, Ghent, Belgium. The usual Alderman **NICK" BOHLING Day was a success at Lemont. III., this past .August. The XD-USC Football weekend promises to be a busy one culmi­nating in the Annual Communion Breakfast on Sun­day, Nov. 29. 'With the successful season of the team thb year there should be several classmates from Chicago on hand for the weekend. 
I hope JERRY CROWXEY is keeping a guest list of his visiting classmates after cver>' game. Some news on them would be welcome. Please send reports of meetings at the games for future copy. While it is bright and sunny today, you will re­ceive this just before the holiday season. ^Varznest wishes for a Merry Christmas to all. 
From the Alumni Office: The mayor of South Bend has JOHN McINTYRE keeping an eye on the children as a member of the school trustees for the next four years. Deepest sympathy to MORRIS LEAHY and his wife on the death of their son Mike. Mike was 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
killed in a motor scooter accident on the first weekend of September in Milan, Italy. Mike, a sophomore, was one of 32 ND students who left in August for a year of study in Innsbruck, .Austria. 
•^ 9 James K. Collins 2982 Torrington Rd. Shaker Heights, Ohio 
We were saddened to learn of the death of two 

members of the Class — TOM 0'M.ALLEY and 
JOE KENNEDY. 
Tom, a native of Chicago had lived with his family in Aurora for several years. He died Au­gust 23, and a Mass was said on the campus for him by REV. THOMAS O'DONNELL, CSC. 
Joe, the great cheerleader and fine singer, died on June 29 — just one week after his first grand­child was bom. His daughter, Geraldine, presented the family willi a fine baby boy on June 22. Be­sides them and his wife .Agnes. Joe also is survived by his son, Joe Jr., who is back on the campus now for his senior year. 
Both men uill be deeply missed, and their fam­ilies have asked that they be remembered in all vour prayers. 
The death of REV. XHCHAEL A. MULCAIRE expressed a particular fondness for our Class, and came as a shock to tliose who knew him well. He spent an entire day with us during the 30th Re­union. My wife and I were privileged to have dinner with him just a few days before he died, and he appeared to be in perfect health. 
Our sinccrest congratulations go to HERBERT PETZEL on his appointment as vice-president of Esquire Inc., publbher of Esquire and Gentleman's Quarterly magazines. Herb has been with Esquire for 29 years, during which time he held many po­sitions in the circulation department, including those of newsstand sales manager and currently that of circulation director. Herb, who lives in Elmont, Long Island, U married to the fonncr Patricia Wagner. During ^Vorld War II he served on the staff of Yank Maga^e. 
I had lunch recently with BILL WALTZ, GABE MORAN and HUGH BALL although not together. Bill is tlie trust officer for tlie Merchants Bank in Massillon and told me that his daughter, a grad­uate of Ursulinc College, was married this year. His older son is finishing at John Carroll U., and his younger son is at Central Catholic High School there. 
Gabe is the purchasing agent for American Blower Co. in Youngstown. His older daughter is a sophomore at Youngstown College, and the younger one is in high school. 
Hugh is back in good shape after what he de­scribes as a collapse on the golf course. It could have been only his game from his present appear­
 ND. Movement began in California. 
ance — he is sales manager of Cutler Hammer 
Corp. here. His son, Colonel, a former student on 
the campus, is a Marine pilot now. 
REGIS McNA&fARA is dty engineer in his home town at Binghamton, N.Y. Reg spent his \*acation with his family at Grand Bahama island and also spent considerable time with DICK QUINL.AN '28. 
Among recent changes of address are JIM LEWIS to 7507 Lynn Drive, Chevy Chase 15, Md. JOHN KERLIN to Route 4, Box 2at-D, NoblesvilleJ Ind.; ELLSWORTH COX to 17300 Parker, SoutlT Bend; REV. CHARLES MOHR to St. Mary's Church, 604 lOth St., Beaver Falls, Pa.; BOB MARKLAND to 57 Sinclair Drive, Grecnlawn, L.L, N.Y.; and BADEN POWELL has come back to 615 Jerome St., Marshalltown, Iowa, from Los Angeles. 
From the .Mumni Office: NATE ALT.MAN and LEO NEWNL\N, who op­erate a Studebaker dealership in South Bend, head a firm that has purchased the tooling, manufactur­ing rights and some existing components for the .\vanti car. The purchase involved several acres and buildings. Tlicy arc amassing figures and then will 
decide if they arc going to start production on :m limited, custom-order basis. " TOM BATH has joined the advisory* board of 
St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend. 
John A. Hoyt, Jr. 
'33 Gillespie & O'Connor 
342 Madison Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 
World's Fair Phone No. 212 MU 2-1170 

JIM SHEA died at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxfl ville. New York, on September 30, 19&f after a long illness. He is survived by his widow, Marcella, a son Brian {N.D. 1963) and sons Kevin, James, Jr. and David. Following a Funeral Mass at St. Joseph's Church in Bronxville Jim was buried in the family cemetery plot at St. Bernard's Cemetery, Rockville, Connecticut. 
"In paradisum dcducant tc angeli" 
(May the angels lead thee into paradise}. 
It ha; been a long hot summer and there has not been much contact with Class members who may have passed through New York for the Fair. How­ever, several Class members have been in contact with U3 and we are pleased to report as follows: 
Pauline and BERNIE LENAHAN visited with CHARLIE FARRIS in St. Louis in late August. 
Charlie indicated that Bcrnie might be cuming cast 
to New York for a visit to the Fair. ^ ^ LUCIEN KEMPF has been nominated by yoiii ^las s Officers for future consideration as a candi­
date for the National Board of Directors of the Alumni Assn. In 31 years we have only had one Class member elected to the National Board. JULES DE LA VERGNE from LouUiana sen-ed with distinction some years back. 
A recent note from CAPTAIN WILLIAM M. HAWKES USN indicates that Bill is now wth the Bureau of Naval Weapons at San Diego, Cal. 
ED ECKERT'S daughter Caroline won the jun­ior team championship of Albany, N.Y. During tlie summer she competed in several invitation tourna­ments in the cast. She competed in the Westchester County championships at Scarsdale. N.Y., early in 
^h e summer. Ed's son Jerr>-finished his Freshman year at St. John Fisher College in Syracuse and during the past summer he won the golf champion­ship at the Lake Placid Club. 
JACK BREEN from Detroit was in New York in the late spring on a business trip and we were able ro spend a few hours together reminiscim* at lunch at the Biltmore Hotel. Jack's daughter Betty was married at Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame on July 4, 1964, to TERENCE DESMOND XD *63. While at Notre Dame Jack saw PR. MAURICE POWERS and had luncli with PR. LLOYD TESKE, who continues to do an out­standing job as campus cliaplain (Prefect of Re­ligion, that is, in our tradition). 
0 SHERMAN MINSKEY celebrated his 20th wed­ding anniversar>' during the summer. Sherm lives in New Jersey and be is engaged as a manufacturers representative in the drug field. He has two daugh­ters, one who is a resident buyer in New York and the other who is a Senior at State University Col­lege in Potsdam, N.Y. 
FRED LAUGHNA, who is with the air-condi­tioning division of Chr\-slcr, was recently trans­ferred to the Chr>-sler office in Rye, N.Y.; recently moved his family from Dayton, Ohio; and is now residing at 30 Beachmont Terrace, North Caldwell, .V.J. 
DICK MEADE'S new address is 540 San Felicia, \Vay, Los Altos, Cal. JERRY ROACH is now residing at 4860 Fort Totlen Drive N.E., Washington, D.C. 
^ JIM ROSS, tax counsel for General Dynamics 
^^orp., attends most of the Notre Dame Club of Ne\v York meetings along with BILL LYNCH, ANDY BOTTI, MARSHAL McAVENEY and JAH JR. 
BILL LYNCH was ill during the summer but is now back at Sterling Drug's office in New York. 
FRED F.AYETTE continues to be very active in statewide Democratic politics in Vermont. He is running this year for election to the United States Senate from Vermont. 
JIM WADE recently left Richland. Wash., where he u-os a specialist in education and train­ing for General Electric at the Hanford Atomic Productions Operation and he is now teacliing at the business school at San Jose State and resides 
An San Jose, Cal. In addition to his teaching activi­ties he is also engaged in management consultation work. Jim's daughter Edith Ann u*as graduated from the U. of Portland last June. The New York Times of Sunday. Sept, 13, car­ried a special Sunday insert regarding the urban icnewat and \*ast building program that has been going on In Metropolitan St. Louis during the past ten years. The stor>' was a single tribute to CHARLIE FARRIS, who has been the executive di­rector of the entire program for many years. 
CHARLIE HAFRON, whom we all remember as one of the assistant freshman coaches under "HUNK" ANDERSON in 1933, wrote recently that he had a pleasant visit with ED KRAUSE at the International House in Washington, D.C. 
I^harlie has been assigned to the West Coast and 
^ s residing at 8 Locksley Drive, Sunset Towers, San Francisco, Cal. He sees many of the former Notre Dame football players now playing with the **'pros" when they play on the Coast. 
CHARLIE CONLEY from Havc^to^vn, Pa., writes that BILL BODO*S fatlier-in-law. Judge Eugene Bonntwell of Philadelphia, died early in June. 
MAURIE LEE of Chicago visited Charlie on the occasi'm of the marriage of Maurie's niece, who was married during the summer in Philadelphia. Charlie is assbting Maurle Lee, who is attempting to have a reunion In June of 1965 of all Notre Dame lawyers from the Class of 1933 who subsc* quently took their law degree at Notre Dame with 
MSGR. ANTHONY M. GOMES '38, in­vested as a domestic prelate last spring, recently celebrated Mass on his parents' Golden Wedding Anniversary. He is pastor of Our Lady of Angels Church, Fall River, Mass.. and a right reverend "Notre-doter." 
the Law Scliool Class of 1935, as well as other lawyers from the Class of 1933. Those interested in sucli a reunion should contact ^fauricc W. Lee Esq., Suite 1714, One North LaSalle St., Chicago 2, III. 
From the .Alumni Office: FRITZ HAFRON resigned a commander's com­mission in the Navy in June and is now director of intramural sports and recreation at the U. of San Francisco. Judge FRANK X. KOPINSKI of St. Joseph County Juvenile-Probate Court attended the annual institute of juvenile and criminal court judges of Indiana in August and was re-elected to another three-year term on the advisory committee of judges to the Indiana Citizens Council on Crime and Delinqueno*. FR. JOHN A. O'BRIEN MA, still busy with the quillj has an article in the October Issue of Reader's Digest, "New Warmth Between Protestants and Catholics," documenting the "far-reaching and even rcvolutionar\'" change in attitudes of Chris­tians and Jews. 
•> ^ Edward F. Mansfield 523 W. Hillsdale San Mateo, Calif. 

From the .Alumni Office: PHIL TREXLER received the Annual Griffin A\*'ard of a plaque and honorarium of $500 from the .Animal Core Panel in recognition of his out­standing work in the development of inexpensive plastic film isolation for germfree animal research. These have reduced the cost of such research, bringing it within the reach of every laboratory and producer. Since '63 ho has been director of research for the Charles River Breeding Labora­tories and for the Snyder Mfg. Co., and director of the Gnotobiotic Research Foundation. 
With no basis whatsoever we transferred new class secretary- ED MANSFIELD from San Mateo, Calif., to Denver in the last Issue of the mag. Our apologies, Ed. Since June I, Ed and a friend have been working long, long hours on a new project: manufacturers' representative supplies for the whole­saler. 
TOM STRITCH, head of the communication arts dept. at ND, announced the beginning this past summer of a master's degree program. Grow­ing out of institutes offered for several years, the courses are geared tou-ard the training of high school and college teachers. For the first time this fall the dept. offered incoming freshmen approxi­mately S8,000 in scholarships. 
Come AU¥E in '65! 

Class off '35 Aaaiversory 30 REUNION—Jvne 11-12-13 
l^ e FranUyn Hochrdter ^9 702SGarietDr. Towson, Md, 

It has been a long time since we had our last chat through the class column in the ALUMNUS! Our letter of July 20 really got quite a reaction in at least one part of the country — New York City. ANDY ^L\FFEI sent his letter back by re­turn mail with notes all over it. We replied im­mediately and asked, among other things, why be didn't return the questionnaire along ^vlth his ex­plosion. (The form came a few days later.) Within a week PHIL HEINLE returned his letter (with comments) attached to his questionnaire. 
We apologized to "Banjo" and asked him to pass the word to the rest of the Saint Regis crowd —- and now we do it publicly! We are sorry that we did not publish your notes as they arrived back in '63. 
As we prepared our material for this trip to press, the .August-September ALUMNUS arrived 
— and we arc very glad we waited until deadline so we can correct a ratlier serious rumor. Imagine our surprise to read that we are very near our old Wgor (as a secretarv) since our recent marriage. FOR THE RECORD — SUCH A RUMOR IS WITHOUT BASIS IX FACT! 
Several months ago we wrote to JIM ARM* STRONG about a number of things having to do with Reunion, and included was a short paragrapli about the possibility of remarriage, a few facts about the possible, prospective bride, etc. THE MOMENT HAS NOT ARRIVED AND %VE ARE STILL VERY MUCH THE "MERRY WIDOW­ER!" If, as, and when the happy day and hour roll around — you will all be the first to know. (It is not expected for another year or so, and do not expect to meet the bride-to-be at Reunion; she teaches school and will be busy mth her little 3rd graders!) 
As of the last day of September we have re­ceived only 82 questionnaires. This Is only about 15% of the class and far below the total returns In 1959-60. (We sent out 3 mailings five years ago and received returns, eventually, from 271. 
Fifty-nine said they were returning for Reunion next June — that's about 70% of the replies. Fif­teen were uncertain and eight gave a definite "NO." Really we are concerned about the total figure, both replies and those declaring themselves in for next June. If this is an Indication of inter­est in our 30th celebration, the local committee may as \ven start revamping their gala plans. How about it, men? Ts this your last word? Or can we expect a flood of questionnaires around Christmas after you read this story? 
Before %ve get to the questionnaire material, we have a few notes about three other men. 
TOM PROCTOR came back to life during the summer. He has returned from Spain and is assod­ated with the Joseph Dean Edwards law firm In New York. He Is located on Battery Place in The Whitehall Building. We are looking forward to a visit in Baltimore one of these days to catch up on the passing years. Two long-distance phone calls and a luncheon with Mr. and )Crs. Edwards just got us ready for a real long session. 
ROY SCHOLZ, a fellow Baltimorian, had a ^ cinating experience last May. He spent a month with the Tom Dooley Foundation in Algeria nmomg an 85-bed eye hospital in Algiers. Apparently Roy spent more time in surgery for those 30 days than he would normally spend In many times that num­ber of days back home. 
PAT FISHER sent along a dipping from the Wakefield, Mich., paper about "Beanie" Cavender. Col. SAVING W. CAVENDER. U.S. Medical Corps, has taken over the duties of surgeon for the Field Command, Defense Atomic Support Agency, Sandia Base, N3 L (His address in 3301­43ni Place.) "Beanie" moved to Sandia Base from Landstuhl, Germany, where he had been command­ing officer of the 3742nd USA Nuclear Medical Re­search Detachment. 
While we are on the subject of notes, we have two of our own. BILL TOUMEY dropped in to see us by phone during the summer. His FR firm in NYC is handling the Bendix account in Baltimore. KIl was staying at the Holiday Inn near our house and suggested a ctMktail before dmner. Since our "teacher" was In the patio for our nightly liba-
NotTe Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 41 
tioii. \vc both packed off to see BUI and had a ver>* enjoyable hour. He was to have returned two weeks later for a steak cookout, but that never materialized due to his changed schedule. 
J. C. DUDLEY called us a month ago — the first time in five years that he has been around Baltimore with the Army for 2 weeks. (The last time "JC" called was in '59, and 3 months later he was married.) Our "teacher" and your Scribe started out around midnight for the other side of town to the Parkway Motel for *'night caps." It was a pleasure to meet ^Vilhelmina at long last. They both plan to be with us in '65. 
Here is the list of men who say thc>* u-ill be with us for the 30th next June: ANDY MAFFEI, PHIL HEINLE, BILL HEARN, JIM MacDEVTIT, BILL BERNARD, BILL KENNEDY, PAT FISHER, KURT SIMON. JOHN CLARK, TONY (mail­man) CROWLEY, SAM ^VEST, FRED BROOK­MEYER, PAUL FERGUS, NORM FREDERICKS, TOM LaLONDE, CLIP DUDLEY, ART a\REY, JOHN LANG, JIM JENNINGS, FRANK VEE, LARRY SMITH, BILL KEEFE, C A M I L L E GRAVEL, TOM OWEN, BILL RYAN, AL LAW­TON, ARNIE HACKENBRUCH, DAN YOUNG­ERMAN, BOB LEE, CARL WXBER, ART KRANZFELDER, DON FELTS, ED LcJEUNE, DICK HYDE, JIM CORRIGAN, S.J.. JIM SEY­MOUR, MIKE GAUL, JIM McAX'ENEY, BILL BEIUVBROCK, VIC KURZWEG, TOM WIL­LIAMSEN, ED VanHUISSELING, JIM SULLI­VAN, JACK DUFFEY, TOM AVALSH, FRANK MATAVOSKY, AL McCARTHY, RAY BRODER­ICK, JOHN NOVAK, JIM RAMILTON, KARL FULNECKY, FRANK HOL.\HAN, PHIL JA­COBS, PAT LYNCH, IRV "Foots" DAVIS, ED BRACKEN, JOE UNDERKOFLER, NAT LER­MAN and FRANK KOPPELBERGER. 
Tliose %%ho said "mavbc": JACK SHODRON, AL RAVARINO. JIM BOWDREX, BROTHER ROMANUS, JOHN KREBSER, TOM GALLA­GHER, ART BROWN, GEORG E BARBER, BROTHER THADDEUS, ED KILMURRAY, TONY BROWN, ARMAND KELLOGG, DAN HENRY, BILL MURRAY and LOUIE FAUTSCH. 
Those who said "no": VAL KL.\IBER, JIM CARRICO, JOHN MONAHAN, TOM GRvWES, RAY VANDER HE\'DEN. BILL KLIMA. BILL BURKE and GENE O'BRIEN. 
Let's see what some of these men are doing with themselves. We'll take the "yes"-mai first! 
ANDY MAFFEI (153 Park Hill Ave., Yonkcrs, X.Y.) is celebrating his 25th annivcrsar>- as an at­torney. He and Vincentella are not grandparents; in fact their son and 2 daughters are still single. .Andy was married 4/28/46. 
PHIL HEINLE (499 Ridgeivood Rd., Maple-wood, N.J.) has been a manufacturer's representa­tive in plastics for 8 years after spending 10 years each with Lever Brothers and American Can. He and Janet have a single son and 3 single daughters. Phil was married 6/7/41. 
BILL HEARN (11911 San Vicente Blvd., Los .Angeles, Cal.) after 2 yean at ND took off for UCLA. He is in real estate now after running and ouTiing a men's shop for some years. Bill is single. 
JIM MacDEVITT (43 Hampshire Rd., Great Neck, N.Y.) continues in the law as a ta.x and estate attorney. He and Catherine have 3 single sons. Jim was married in '42. 
BILL BERNARD (2154 Lindsay Rd., Springfield. 
111.) has been *'soloing" as a physician and surgeon 
for 20 years. He and Anna Frances have two sons 

and two daughters, none of whom are married. 
Bill was married 3/4/43. 

BILL KENNEDY (4 Applcgrcen Dr., Old Wesl­burj', N.Y.) has been in PR work for 21 years. Prior to that he spent 10 years in the 4th Estate. He and Ava have a single and a married daughter, and 2 grandsons and 1 granddaughter. Bill was married 6/25/38. 
PAT FISHER (4311 Broadway, Indianapolis, Ind.) has been a Iaw>-er lo these many years — currently "moonlighting" as an arbitrator. He and Carroll have 4 sons and 5 daughters, none married. One son is an ND man. Pat w*as mar­ried 8/1/42. 
KURT SIMON (1216 East Wayne NorUi, South Bend, Ind.) has been in the family wholesale groccrj' business for over 30 years — is now presi­dent. He and Tessyc have one son, who is single. Kurt was married 3/12/42. 
JOHN CLARK (929 North Euclid Ave., Oak Park, III.) has been associated xvith the motion picture industry for 29 years as an exhibitor. He and Eleanor have 2 single sons. 2 single and I married daughters. No grandchildren, but a son is an ND man. Jack was married 6/11/38. 
"TONY" CROWLEY (2401 East Chandler St., Evansnlle, Ind.), while an attorney, has been in the investment business for 26 years. He and Lilyan have 1 son and 2 daughters, all single. Three boj-s and 2 girls are deceased. The son is an NT) man. "Tony" was married 4/18/42. 
SAM WEST (618 East lOlh Ave., Tarentum, Pa.) moved on to Carnegie Tech after 2 years at ND. He has been an electrical engineer associated with a number of firms for 30 years. He and Rose Marie have a single son and a married daughter. There is a grandson in the picture, Sam was mar­ried in '37. 
FRED BROOKMEYER (2050 East 72nd PL, Chicago, III.) is now regional sales mgr. u-ith .•\ja.\ Consolidated — rail equipment — after 7 years witli ^^ars Signal Light. He has one daughter who is single. Wife Flora Jane died 11/17/62. Fred was married 11/19/49. 
PAUL FERGUS (19259 Summers Dr., South Bend, Ind,) has headed the Paul A. Fergus Ad­vertising Co. for many years. He and Mar>- Lenore have 2 single sons and a married daughter. Paul was married 1/19/37. 
NORM FREDERICKS (4219 South Lakser, BloomBcld Hills, Midi.) continues witli Kocnig Coal and Supply Co., wliere he has been for 24 years — now president and treasurer. He and Lois have 3 single sons and 2 single and 1 married daughters. Norm u-as married 4/15/39. 
TOM LaLONDE (800 Prairie Rd., Glencoe, III.) has finally left children's shoes after 29 years. (What is the Green outfit doing without you, Tom?) He is now in real estate, the industrial t^-pe. He and Dorothy have a single son and daughter. Tom was married 8/8/40. 
J. C. DUDLEY (Box 531, Paducah, Ky.) has spent 18 years in the life insurance business and is now district agent for Northwestern Mutual Life. He and Wilhelmlna have no children. "JC" was married 11/18/59. 
ART CAREY (21253 Avalon Dr., Rocky River, O.) is in the investment field after 8 years with 
the FBI. He and Marie Thcrese have 3 sons and I 
2 daughters — all single. Art was married 1/26/46. n 
JOHN LANG (25969 Pcterman Ave., Hayivard, J Cal.) is in business for himself, as a "busincsJ^ consultant" currently, after a number of years with several firms as an electrical engineer. He and Marjorie have a married son, with a grandson and a granddaughter. John was married 5/29/36. 
JLM JENNINGS (P.O. Box 1180, Roswcll, N..M.) has been a practicing attorney for 26 years in the home town. He and Frances have 4 sons, all single, and a single and a married daughter. One son is an ND man. There is a grandson, too. 
FRANK VEE (6017 SouUiport Dr., Bethcsda, Md.) has been in government service for almost 20 years, currently with Dept. of Defense. He and Florence have 2 unmarried daughters. Frank was married 8/37. 
LARRY SMITH (P.O. Box 14, East Uverpool^ O.) has been a lawyer for 20 years. He and Eliza­beth have a son and four daughters, all single. Larr>- was married 12/26/45. 
BILL KEEFE (4 Paddington Circle, Bron.wille, N.Y.) has been an executive in the prpclinc busi­ness for many years — currently vice-president and secretary of Panhandle Eastern — using his law training ai needed. He and Barbara have a single son and daughter. Bill was married 2/14/42. 
CAMILLE GRAVEL (3214 Carol Court, Alex­andria, La.) has been an attorney for 24 years. (We also remember him for his stand as a Demo­cratic national committeeman for La.}. He and Katherine have 4 sons and 6 daughters, all single. One son is deceased. Camille was married ll/26/3Q.g^ 
TOM OWEN (4004 Wiley Ave., Chattanooga,^^' Tenn.) has been a manufacturer's rep. for 15 years, as a partner in Craig-Owen Co. He and Marguerite have a single son and daughter. Tom was married 5/6/39. 
BILL RYAN (1620 East Washington St., South Bend, Ind.) has been with Associates Investment for 29 years — now assistant vccp. He and Elouise have 2 single daughters. Bill was married n/26/38. 
AL L.\^\TON (3(^5 Xancy Creek Rd., X.W., .Atlanta, Ga.) has been president of Ga. Inter­national Life Ins. Co. for 5 years. His whole life has been with insurance, and 3 companies are in­cluded over 24 years before the current position. He and Mary Pat have 1 son and 2 daughters, all single. Al was married 1/1/37. 
ARNOLD HACKENBRUCH (1506 North 123 St., Wauwatosa, Wis.) is plant engineer for Univcrsa/^ Foods — has been \rith them for 15 years. He and Gene have no clilldren. Amic was married 8/1/41. 
DAN YOUNGERMAN (193 Grant St., Lexing­ton, Mass.) moved out of South Bend last No­vember to join SyK*ania Electronic Systems as manager of procurement and facilities planning. Studebakcr and Bendix took most of his time previously. He and Dorothy have 3 single daughters. Dan \fi-as married 8/6/38. 
BOB LEE (940 Orange Center Rd., Orange, Conn.) has been in the banking and investment business for 29 years. He is president of Robt. E. Lee Assocs. He and Glad>'s have 2 boys and 2 girls, single. A son is an ND man. Bob was mar­ried 6/25/38. 
CARL ^VEBER (1185 South 8th Ave., Kanf\ kakee. 111.) has been with General Mills for 2? ^ years. He and Mar)' have 2 single sons and a 
WILLIAM E. MILLER '35 visited the campus for the Purdue game and one of the happier moments of his unsuccessful bid for vice-prcadcnt. Left: Bill is greeted by Fr. Joyce at the Morris Inn. Center: Fr. Hcsbu ^ and Mrs. Miller smile at BilFs mtfau^asm during an exciting play. Right: Bill makes a non-political speech to the students on the Sorin Hall porch. 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
© 

11 Miigle daughter. Carl was married 10/15/38. 
I ART KRANZFELDER (4019 Guilford, Indi-I anapolis, Ind.) has been in research with EH Lilly fATor 16 years and before that with Reilly Tar and Chemical. He and Theresa have 2 sons and 3 daughters — all single. Art was married 6/22/40. DON FELTS (540 Hickory Hollow Lane, Kirk­wood, Mo.) has been with the Texaco petroleum people for 28 years and is in credit. He and Mar>- have 2 single sons and 1 married, as well as a single daughter. There are 2 granddaughters. Don was married 11/9/37. ED LcJEUNE (1966 Robin Crest Lane, Glen-view, 111.) is a consulting engineer with his own company, whicli he established 7 years ago. Before that Ed was with a number of firms. He and Eileen have 4 sons and 4 daughters, one of the latter being married. There is I granddaughter and  son who is an ND man. Ed was married 
•1 
10/21/39. 
DICK HYDE (1424 Courtland, Park Ridge, III.) has been a real estate rep. with Shell Oil for 27 years. He and Ruth have 2 sons, both single. Dick was married in *46. 
JIM CORRIGAN (1131 West Wisconsin Ave, Milwaukee, Wis.) is the Jesuit pastor of Gcsu Parish. He has been "pastoring" for a year after "prcsidenting,** "directoring" and "principaling" for the Jesuits for a long time. 
JIM SEYMOUR (131 Wickham Dr., Williams-ville, N.Y.) has been with Hooker Chemical Corp. for 28 years in Niagara Falls. He and Margaret have a single son and daughter. Jim was married 5/3/52. 

( # MIKE (FRANK) GAUL (7028 North Mendota, Chicago, III.) has been an architect for 30 years, trading under Gaul and Vooscn, Arcliitects. He and Grace have a single son and daughter. Mike was married 4/30/38. 
JIM McAVENEY (25 Bangert Ave., Perry Hall, Md.) has spent 15 years with Addrcssograph-Multigraph Corp. Before that he had 9 years uith \Vestern Electric. He and Lolabelle have a single son, a single daughter and a married daughter. Jim was married 11/6/38. 
BILL BERNBROCK (778 25th Ave. Court, Mo­line. III.) has spent his professional life as ah architect trading under his own name. He and Madge have 2 single sons, a single and a married daughter. Ttiere arc 2 grandsons. Bill was mar­ried 6/10/39. 

VIC KURZWEG (499 Wood\ine Ave., Mciairie, jj-a.) is president of Consolidated Companies Inc. 
^^l e has been in the tvholsale grocer>' business for 25 years. He and Kathr>-n have 4 sons, all single, and a single daughter. Vic u-as married 6/18/38. 
"TOM" WILLIAMSEN (1612 Jasmine Ave., New Hyde Park, L.I., N.Y.) has been a quality control engineer uith Grumman Aircraft Engineer­ing Corp. for 6 years. Prior to that time he was engineering with a number of firms. He and Har­riet have a married son and daughter, with a grandchild "on the way." "Tom" was married 6/6/36. 
ED VanHUISSELIXG (250 West Graniley Ave., Elmhurst, 111.) has been with Victor Comptom­eter Corp. for 28 years in sales. He and ^(athilde have a single and a married son. "Van" was mar­ried 7/20^. 

M JI.M SULLIVAN (1120 Dobson St., Evanston, 
^11.) has been in the funeral directing business for 29 years, trading under E. J. Sullivan and Son Inc. He and Charlotte have 2 single and 1 married son and a single daughter. One son is an ND man. Jim u-as married 9/12/36. 
JACK DUFFEY (291 Yarmouth Rd., Rochester, X.V.) has been in the insurance business since leaving ND. He and Claire have one son who is single. Jack was married 10/12/39. 
TOM WALSH (Old Rock Lane RR 2, NorAvalk, Conn.) has been %rith Walsh Construction Co. for 30 years and is now president and chairman of the board. He and Ann have 3 single sons and 1 single daughter. Tom was married 1/13/40. 
FRANK MATAVOSKY (2650 West 51st St., .Jphicago, III.) is president of the Economy Savings 
^n d Loan Assn., a firm he has been with for 15 years. Prior to that he practiced law. He and Marie have 2 single daughters. Frank was mar­ried 10/9/37. 
That's it for this time men! We have reviewed the lives, in thumbnail form, of 46 of our gang. We'll save more for the next issue of the alumni r^ . Let's keep those questionnaires rolling in! Remember — this is YOUR party — YOUR Re­union — YOUR column! 
.And, how about dues? Wc were glad to note on many questionnaires that you *35crs sent along checks. The South Bend Reunion Committee needs a lot more dough! Pay up, you guys who have noi come through yet! 
<# 
LT. COL. JOSEPH D. SPINELU MS '48 and wife Mary, a former Army nurse, flank daughter Jody, one of nine Spinelli chil­dren in the Panama Canal Zone, who has chosen to follow family tradition by enrolling in Army Nurse Corps training. 
We cannot close without a word about BILL MILLER. Regardless of your political leanings, it is not often that you can say "one of our boys made it!" Wc wired Walter Cronkite immediately after Bill's nomination, hoping that more of his ND identification with the Class of '35 might be aired — but we heard none of our dope being used. Sorry Bill — and congratulations! 
.•\ word or two about obituaries. In the past two months we have received copies of letters sent out by JIM ARMSTRONG on the following: our own JOHN LIVELY, who died 8/22/63; ROCCO SCHIRALLI, who died 9/13/64; and W.ALTER O'BRIEN, who died 6/2/64. This makes three more of our gang who will not be with us in *65. For their souls wc ask your prayers; to their fam­ilies wc send profound class condolences. 
We also learned that FRANCIS DUNN's mother died on .August 26. To Frank we send our prayers and best wishes. 
Our congratulations to TONY KUHARICH for making "Spotlight .-Mumnus" in the last issue of our magazine. 
Since this is due in the mails in December — A .MERRY CHRlSTMxVS AND A HAPPY NEW YEARl 
From the .Muinni Office: 
On July 18, D.\N YOUNGERMAN stopped off at South Bend while returning to Lexington, Mass., from Denver. While here, he met with the Class Reunion Committee to talk over plans for next year's reunion. There was a cocktail party at the home of PAUL FERGUS. Later, the group had dinner at Eddie's Restaurant. Those present in­cluded Dan Youngerman, Mr. and Mrs. Paul Fer­gus, Mr. and XJrs. KURT SIMON, Mr. and Mrs. TOM HICKEY, Dr. and Mrs. JIM McCRALEY, Mr. and Mrs. BILL RY.AN and ED SMITH. 
FR. BERNARD NIE.MIER CSC has taken up his duties as pastor of Holy Trinity Church in Chicago after taking a month's vacation. 
JOHNNY JORDr\N has rented an apartment on Chicago's southwest side and will direct ph>'S]cal activities at the 427 parks in the Chicago district. He will hq. in the Park District bldg. on 14th St., just south of Soldiers' Field. 
DR. FRANK SCHLUETER and his wife are to be congratulated on the birth of their seventh child this summer. 
Congratulations to CHUCK DEDERICH on the forthcoming release of the movie "Synanon," based on the "symposium anon>"mous" method whereby Cliuck has salvaged the humanity of former drunks, derelicts and drug addicts in California and throughout the nation. 
'^ A ^-"^"^ Palko^c 
207 North Market Street Johnstown, N.Y. 
Dr. GEO' MURPHY, 62 Dodd St., Glen Ridge, N.J., is a surgeon in pri\-ale practice, married, with two boys, two girls. 
RAY HERRLY. SlOl Colfax Ave., S. Minneap­olis, Minn., married, with one boy (frosh at ND), is president of Herrly Fuel & Chemical Co. and Production Co., consultants. After 25 yrs. in So. Bend and a ship trip around the world the Herrlys have moved back to Minneapolis. Ray says he misses those rugged football weekends and the ND spirit and hopes to be with the ND group in Min­neapolis. Ask Ray about firecrackers! 

FRED \VEBER, 319 N. Central Ave, Clayton 5, Mo., is married, with five children, and is vice pres. & technical director of Phelan Faust Paint Mfg. Co. Fred has been with this company since Icaring ND, is active in technical, industry and ovic groups. Sees quite a few ND people" includins FRED McNEIL and AL RAVARINO '35. 
J. P. FOX, 57 Hickory Rd., Rochester, N.Y., is married, has two children and is vice-pres. &. treas. of Rittcr Co. Inc. 
SAM DI GIOVANNI, 4520 Holmes St., Kansas City 10, Mo., is married, has four children, op­erates a retail package liquor store, Happy Hollow Liquors. 
JOHN TOBIN, 115 E. 7th St., Anaconda, Mont,, is married, has three children, three grandchildren and is purchasing dept. storekeeper for Anaconda Co. One son is attending ND, Jr. yr,; daughter Marion going to Portland U.; oldest son's wife Mariene expecting; son Tony operates his own service station. 
JUSTIN HANNEN, 50 S. Bellaire, Denver, Colo., is married, has three children and is an attorney, 312 Symes Bldg. 
JACK DES NOYER, 1029 S. Higby, Jackson, Mich., is married ^vith 12 children and is a realtor (Des Noyer Agency). Commerce grad Jack was in England with the 8th Air Force for three years. Now he's selling real estate, buying baby shoes, trying to convince his \vife she's not busy. Jack runs into overtime daily and is looking forward to the 30th Reunion. 
JA-MES B. BURKE, S*5 Arbor Rd., Mcnlo Park, Calif., is married, has five children, two grand­children, is a manufacturing representative, self-employed. 
W- THURM. Epworth. Iowa, is married, has sLx children and one grandchild coming, heads the social science dept. of Western Dubuque Community Schools. His brother passed au'ay Oct. 12, 1964, in Washington, D.C., of cancer. His five boys and one girl include two boys in the Air Force, one going to Viet Nam and one to Japan. Thurm would like to hear from KEVIN KEHOE, JER­OME KANE and others who care to write. 
ARTHUR VERVAET, RyeclifT, Oakland, N.J., is married, has three children. .\ textile manu­facturer. Art is mostly in commerce & government activity*, organized recreation groups, has been mayor of Oakland last 15 yrs., spent four terms in N.J. Le^lature, and was recently director of Bergen County Board of Freeholders, which in N.J. is the county governing body. 
RICHARD SCHMIDT, 283 Riverside Dr., Oak-ville, Ont., Canada, is married, has four children, and is gen. mgr. of the Linde Div., Union Carbide, Canada. Dick's wife does his secretarial work, and he has four boys with whom he plays foursome golf—one boy in the Air Force, one studying medicine at U. of Western Ont., Tom & Dick studying Computer Science, Bill, youngest in 7th grade. Dick says hello to everyone and alvva\-s looking for classmates in the ALUMNUS. 
JACK WHITAKER, 1301 Buriington. Kansas City 16, Mo., is married, has five children, is pres. of Whitaker Cable Corp., Kansas City, and expects to be a grandfather soon. Business is good and growing; employment, about 1,000 people, will reach about 1,250 by next fall. They make in­sulated copper cable, all other components to make electrical ^viring assemblies for cars, trucks, many other industrial uses, even to computers. (One year at one of our reunions we were bunkmates, but I never saw hide nor hair of Jack all the time we were there until it was time to go home. Wonder if he remembers this?) 
GENE TOBIN, Bondi Building, Galesburg, 111., is married, has three children and is an accountant with Shaw. Stout and Tobin. 
PAUL GUARNIERI, 8618 Old Orchard, S.E., Warren, O., is married, has three children. A partner in Guarnieri & Sccrest, attorneys at law, 151 E. Market St., Paul is in the active Army Reserve (Lt. Col. MSC-USAR), has been County Chairman for ND's Challenge; acting probate judge, 1960-62; Tumbull County Guidance Center, Mental Health Assn., Catholic Social Service Board member: active in civil affairs, not in politics. 
WILLIAAf STRUCK, 702 Harries Bldg.. Dayton. O., married, has one boy. Bill Jr., in his second year at ND. Attorney at law in general practice. Bill plays golf in stmimer, bowls in winter. 
HERMAN GREEN, 205 Sumner Ave., New Cas­tle, Pa., is married and has one son. Banker and attorney, he is president of Peoples Bank of Law­rence County. 
GEORGE IREL.AND, 4550 Kirk St., Chicago, III., is director of athletics and head basketball 
Notrg Dame Atumnus, Year End, 1964 43 
coacli at Loyola U. Chicago. His L.U. address is 6525 North Sheridan Rd.. Chicago, III. George recently conducted a basketball clinic for the Provo, Utah, H. S. Athletic Assn. His team won the national (NCAA) championship in 1963. George was chosen *'Coach of the Year" by the Touch­down Club of Columbus, also by the Rocknc Club of Kansas City. His teams in the last four years won 113 and lost but 13 samcs. This is his 14th year at L. U., and he also coached 13 years at Marmlon Military Academv at .\urora. 111., from 1935-51. 
MATH THERNES, 47 N. Main St., Akron 8, O., is msinicd, with three children, six grand­children, and is sccx'. and treas. for Ohio Edison Co., Akron, O. 
Nfy first report since assuming office comes from "WOOD" STIIXWAGON from Mount Vernon, Ohio. Woody is still working- in the industrial re­lations department for Continental Can Co. This i\iU mark his 25th year. 
His wife Anna has been in charge of the re­covcr>- room at Mar>- Hospital for the past tliree years. 
Woody Jr., his oldest son, graduated from the Indiana Institute of Technology last June with a degree in civil and mechanical engineering. At present he is In management training at tlie Dc\-an, Pa., plant of Continental Can. 
Tom, his next oldest, Is a Junior at Miami U. of Ohio, majoring In guidance, made the dean's list last semester and found time to make the football team. 
Jim, tlie youngest, is a student at Augusta Mili­tary Academy, Fort Defiance, Va.. In his first year away from home. He loves sports, and at 15 he weighs 192, is 6 feet tail and should make a good showing both in football and basketball. 
In conclusion Woody adds that God has been good to him and his family with financial security. He would like to hear from "JUNGLE JIM" DWYER (this is the best I could do to make out this last name). His address would be helpful. Woody occasionally sees M. McGUIRE '39, R. ONERAfEYR '42 and C. "KOZ" KOZAK *29, Mr. ND of Central Ohio. 
J. XUCDON.^LD Is with Continental Can Co., has a responsible position ia the purchasing dept. xn 
N.Y. City. Woody gets to see him occasionally, Joe has a family of 9 children, one girl married, and one boy in college. 
Woody reports that .ANDY HELLMUTH is still in Springfield, O., had a bad heart attack several years ago and still lias to take it ea5>-. It would be nice if the Class of '36 xvould remember him in their prayers. 
Woody still thinks that BILL BELDEN is living in Canton, O., as he sees many trucks passing through hauling Bcldcn bricks through Mt. Vernon where Woody lives, although Woody hasn't seen him since college da>-s. 
THOMAS J. KfEAGHER is married and self-employed as a lauyer at 1100 Highland Ave., Rochester, N.Y. 14620, which is where classmates will have to write to get any more Information about Tom. 
JOSEPH W. SCHMIDT enclosed a questionnaire with a couple of additional notes and a clever ad for his own business. Joe is president of Greshoff Advertising Agency, doing ads and public relations, and can be reached at 406 E. I49th St., Bronx, N.Y. 10455. He's married, has three children and is active in Bronx dvic and community actiritles, Including vlcc-presldcncv- of the Grand Jurors .Assn. and membership on Draft Board No. 24. 
Joe Schmidt also directed attention to FR. DANIEL M. CLEASON CSC, »ho is an assistant at Our Lady of Victor\- Parish. Pine St., NYC, and FR. EDMUND HANLMER, assistant at St. Thomas Aquinas Parish, Bronx. 
Until I'ery recently I have not had anything to report from any of our classmates altliough I have written and rewritten quite a lew of them for news. Just don't seem to get any cooperation. I have the time to report the news from any of our classmates, but no one seems to answer. I am in sometvhat of an isolated area and don't get to see any of our '36 grads. ^Vish there was some­thing I could do to get the fellows on the ball and start reporting sometliing. I wish you would put this in the next issue of the ALUMNUS and see if wc can't get some action. However, will do my best to contact some of the boys that live vrithin this radius where I live. You might also mention in the ALUMNTJS I would be willing to send out cards for news If our '36 class would go for the expense of buying the postal cards besides what I do on my own. 
Would also like to mention that any of our classmates tra\xling in or through New York State, e^iedally the Thruway, should stop and at least say hello. Am located about four miles north of the Tliruway by the way of stop 28. You get off at Fultomille Into Fonda, then head north about four miles Into Johnstown, and our place Is easy to find as we are well knouTi In this town. Would be glad to have anyone stop as we run a \*ariety store and have plenty to eat and drink. Sure hope I get some results from this Information. 
,\Iso In this area and the surrounding country­side We have plenty to offer guests, friends, grads or tourists as we have year round outdoor sports u-ith plent>' of hunting and fbhing, camping, ski resorts of all kinds, just most anything one could desire In tlte great outdoors. .As you might guess, we In-e at the foothills of the Adirondack Moun­tains and we have plenty recreation facilities for young and old alike. 
From the .Alumni Office: BOB ERVIN, former asM>date research prof at ND and asst. director of Lobund, has been named to the new position of staff director, clinical in­vestigation dept,, Parke, Davis £: Co., In .Ann Arbor, Mich. JOE NEWMAN was elected v-p of the Indiana Society of Public Accountants at Its 18th annual con­vention in Fort \Va>Tic. REV. JOHN HALEY CSC has taken up his work uith the Spanish speaking people In the parish of Holy Trinity- Catholic Church, Chicago. JOE FOX, v-p for finance and treasurer of RItter Co. Inc., was elected to Its board of directors in September. DR. BERNARD WALDMAN, on leave from the ND ph>-slcs faculty for the past four years as direc­tor of the Midwest U, Research Assn., Is back as a professor and has also been appointed an associate dean of science, splitting his time like LARRY BALDINGER *31. Bcmie also continues as KD delegate to MURA, the nuclear physics reactor facility at ^(adIson, Wis. 
•^ T Joseph P. Quinn 
^ / P. O. Box 275 Lake Lcnapc Andovcr, N.J. 

From the .Alumni Office: DR. CHARLES HUFNAGEL is one of five leading American cardiologists to spend three weeks in Southeast Asia demonstrating to doctors of that region the latest methods of treating heart dis­ease. Serving without remuneration, the five ^^tcd Ceylon, Indonesia and South Viet Nam. ^VhiIe in Djakarta, Indonesia, they were delegates to the Afro-Asian Pediatric Congress. En route they visited, unofficially, the European Cardiological Congress In Prague, Czechoslovakia. JIM McGUIRE, exec v-p. of the Marine Mid­land Trust Co. of Rochester, N.Y., was elected a bank director in August. Afanhattan civil court Judge BILL SHEA vs'as nominated in August as a Republican candidate for the State Supreme Court Judgeship. DR. TOM CARNEY has resigned as v-p. and director of EH Lilly & Co. Inc. and has joined 
G. D. Searle & Co., Chicago medical research and prescription drug mfg. as v-p. of research and development. Tom and his family are living at 1050 N. Green Bay Rd., Lake Forest, III. 
A researcher, writer, former prof, and twice a candidate for public office, DR. BILL PRENDER­GAST recently joined ABC News as director of political research specializing in the field of elec­tions and voting' behavior. 
HARRY WAITE has been named president of 
M. B. Skinner Co., South Bend mfr. of pipe repair clamps and service fittings for the gas, v^'ater and petroleum Industries. 
President Johnson r«:enlly nominated TONY O'BOYLE of Forty Fort, Pa., for promou'on to Class 4 in the Foreign Service of the US. A former high school teacher in the Scranton City School District, area supervisor for the Veterans' Administration and now foreign affairs anal>'st with the Department of State, Tony became a Foreign Service officer in 1955. 
Keep your eye out for a film recently released to 200 television stations entitled "The War on Gobbledygook." ED FISCHER v*TOte, directed and appears In the film in his campaign against povertv' of spirit In films. Ed discussed "How to Develop a Discerning Film Audience" before the national conference of the University Film Producers Assn. at the U. of Oklahoma in August. He has a busy lecture season ahead as well as keeping up with his classes here at ND. 
"It Is still a man's world," so said PAUL FOLEY when he was keynote speaker to a national convention of the women's journalistic honorarv' sorority In .August. Paul also gave the details ol his philosophy in regard to women in a recent issue of the .Atlantic Monthly. 
I^ H Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 

The editor keeps complimenting me on my 
"short" columns, so here's a try at being as briel 
as tlie new topless bathing suits and just as in­
teresting. 
DR. DENNY E.%MNUEL and wife .Mary brought 
tlieir footballing freshman son In from Ottumwa, 
Iowa. ED CRONIN had them out to his home 
along v*ith LOUIS ANDERSON and your Swedish 
scribe v%'hcre we confirmed all the talcs of Denny's 
prowess as a tackle and Palais Royale Romeo that 
Marv' had never heard. Mary almost took Denny 
Jr. back to Iowa vrith them the next day. 
JOHN CLIFFORD brought his son down from 
St. Paul for his third year but shied away from 
the reminiscing at Cronin's. DAN GIBBS' sopho­
more son was back early for football, as w;is 
JOE KUHARICH's son. 
At the St. Mary's freshman tea while we were 
enrolling our daughter Teresa, JOHN FRANCIS, 
looking like he could still make the track team, 
was doing the same for his daughter. 
CHARLIE CALLAHAN said JOHNNY O'CON­
NOR entered his son, who was a star at Cathedral 
in Indianapolis like his old man, in ND this fait. 
as did PAUL L,AHEY. Charlie also reports that 
CHARLEY MORRISON'S son is a junior and that 
GEORGE FITZPATRICK's son graduated last 
June. JOHN COTTINGHAM's son Is a sophomorf. 
After years of silence, unlike when he was my 
roommate in Badin, Punxsutawney JOE ^VEHRLE 
v%-rote he was glad to see me get into politics "as 
I've always predicted that no good could come of 
you." Joe claims he shoots golf around 85, whicli 
qualifies him vrith some politicians I've run up 
against. However, if he makes good on his promise 
to come to a game this fall, all vrill be forgiven. 
Questionnaires continue to dribble In. Eight who have never made a reunion replied, including: \LARTIN HUSANG, present mayor of Alamasa, Colo., who has a hardware and contractor busi­ness and two sons and two daughters; GEORGE ELMORE, Wllmette, who has five children—two in college—and is a commercial photograplier: ED WR.APP, director of the Executive Program at( the U. of Chicago; ROY KLECKA, the ol' South Bender, now in Scotudale, Ariz., in the tool supply business; HAROLD ^\'ILSON, a manufacturer's agent in ^VicklifT, Ohio, with six children, one of whom Is at Strasbourg U. in France; H.ANK THEIS, now with Hughes Aircraft, Culver Cit>% Calif., after working in Indianapolis and Phila­delphia for years; and ANDY 50KERKA, owner of Swiss EmbroIder>* Co. in Clifton, N.J. .Andy's extensive v^-ar record Included escape from a Polish POW camp through Russia, Eg>-pt and Italy and later Intelligence service. The Sokerkas have 5 children. 
JACK ZERBST, rice-president of Union Carbide In New York; TOM SHEILS, personnel manager in California; BOB CROCKETT, personnel officers In civil servica In Denver; and JAIME GOMEZ, an architect In Colombia, S.A.-^these are all one­time reunion returnees who matched that perform­ance with a questionnaire. 
SAM LA^VLER, Jacksonville. Fla., leading drug­gist; TOM KAVANAGH, Birmingham, Midi. leading lawyer; JOHN RIEDER, San Marino, Calif., leading phj-slcian—these two-time returnees were heard from. 
Saddest news came from the home of CARLE* TON MacDOUGALD In Cranston, R.I., who suc­cumbed Aug. 6 to extensive injuries added to those which he and his family received in a hur­ricane accident some years ago. Carleton fought his way back to where he could tend store from a wheelchair. He u'anted to make the last reunion desperately but just couldn't, even with the help^ of m fund the class offered for the trip. Carleton's patience, determination, optimism and cheerfulness vrill inspire those of us who knew him for the rest of our lives. May God grant him eternal peace. 
From the .Aluimii Office: TOM FUNK, regional president of Coca-Cola, was general chairman for the Anderson, Ind., United Fund campaign. LARRY EBY has been named president of ,Acro­plast Corp. & Protective Treatments Inc., both subsidiaries of Helene Curtis. Larry is a director of the American Chemical Society. 
CHARLIE CALLAHAN was treated in the hos­
44 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End, IDGr 
piial for a severe back muscle spasm during August. 
In the JuIy.August Medical Mbnonary magazine -Mrs. BILL MAHONEY describes in detail the "out-Pdooring" ceremony held by their Ghanaian friends 
for daughter Noel Fitzgerald. This ceremony is an elaborate prayer for the blessing of the family and the ne%vborn infant occurring exactly one week after birth—April 24, 1963. The rites end with each person coming forward and dropping a fciv shillings on a plate for the ncu- child. By virtue of the gift, the donor not only has a right but a duty to watch over the child's welfare for the rest of her life. Bill is parish choir director for his church in Gfiana, where the congregation consists of Ghanaians, British, Americans and some Chinese who arc not followers of the Mao regime. 
BURNIE BAUER has won one of his elections already at this writing. He is the first president 
|of the Indiana State Federation of the Citizens for Educational Freedom. As much luck to \-o» (retroactively) in November for the state represen­tative's job. In September Burnie and his wife participated in a three-week "family exchange visi­tation program" sponsored by the Foundation for International Cooperation. They spent short inter­vals with families in Italy, France. Belgium and England. While in Rome thcv had an audience with POPE PAUL VI. 
FR. HESBURGH's papal appointment and the Medal of Freedom he received have been fully reported in the national newspapers, so we won't repeat the news now. 
•9 Q Joseph E. Hannan Am. Bank & Trust Co. 101 N. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana 

From the .Alumni Office: TIM BRADLEY, ND research chief, attended a conference on "Research Administration in Col­leges and Universities" in Washington, D.C., in October. While there he also attended the annual meeting of the National Council of University Re­search Administrators. After 23 years with the FBI and two years as director of security for the General Telephone and Electronics Corp., HARVEY FOSTER has started a new career with American Airlines as v-p. in charge of auditing and security. ^ PAUL KELL joined the selling group of OHii PNfathieson shipping containers and will ser\'e Wis­consin from his own concern, Tlic Kcll Co., in Menomonee Falls. BOB HUETHER walked his daughter Carolyn dotm the aisle on Sept. 5. EARL BROWN received a \^sil from CHARLIE CALLAHAN '38 in July. Earl is in the steel business in Detroit. When Earl was head football coach at Auburn, one of his aides ^\'as JOHNNY .MURPHY '38, the present ND freshman coach. FRED GOVERN MA *39 has a son in the freshman class this year at St. John's U.. Collegc­ville. Minn. 
Come ALIVE in '65.' 

Class of '40 Silver Jubilee REUNION—June 11-12-13 
*M\ James G. Brown 144 East 44th St. New York, N.Y. 

Tlic big push is on for the 25th reunion in June, 1965. By the time you read this it \%ill be De­cember. Tlicn a short holiday season, the start of Lent and before you know it, the first of June. We'll coordinate our reunion thinking and plans 
Aviih llie "era of Ara" and with a good win over. Wisconsin start evcr>'thing with a bang!! We'll also reritalize this column with an extensive report from GERRY SAEGERT ^vho travels the country as sales mgr. for an aluminum utensil mfg. co. Gcrr>' has planned to be at the Purdue game and look for all '40 men. Says he talked to JIM ROGERS, my St. Ed's roommate and FBI man, w'ho complained about the lack of news in the column. This is an item for the "can you top this" contest. Rogers travels the countr>% there arc about 9,000 ND men in the bureau, he is now domiciled in NY, a telephone call away from me, and he complains about the lack of news in the column. Nice friends I've cultii-ated through high school and college. W^t till I see him next June! Gerr\- spoke to MIKE CORGAN, who was in town 
COL. MIZE MORRIS '40 A Popular Joe in Mexico, Mo. 

Mizc Morris recently received unique honors from his home town of Mexico, Missouri. 
For the past 15 years Mize has been active in the Mexico Chamber of Com­
for the coaches' meeting last January. Mike is with the U. of Nebraska coaching staff. They must be doing the job. They started with a good win over Minnesota. Mike :Uso saw JOHN HAN­NIGAN in Philly. "Punch" is chief metallurgist for .Man ^Vood Steel Co. Saegert also saw LARRY DEVEREUX in Chicago, Larry's wife is expecting her eighth child. No excuse for Larr>- not to be at the reunion with all the superhighways from Chicago. In '60 I rode back to Chi uith Larr>­and will e,xpcct the same ride in *65. Also prob­ably in the car will be the incomparable DON GILLILAND, whom Gcrr>- saw in Tulsa. Chub has been with several of the stale insurance commis­sion offices. .Mso in Tulsa, Saegert saw GERRY DONOVAN and his family and met T. D. SAFFA at a local ND communion breakfast. Gerry's daughter had just graduated from St. Mary's. Saegert saw HANK DOWD, BUD O'DONNELL and JOE DE FRANCO at our local golf outing here in June. Had a note from BOB HOWARD down Virginia way; Bob is the executive secretary for the Medical Society of Virginia. He is looking forward to seeing or hearing from JOHN GOR­DON. Have a good questionnaire from ED KELLY, ricc-pres. with Bankers Life and Casualty Co. Ed is married and has two children, Mike. 9. and Maureen. 6. He recently saw RED BOWLER, ^vhose son is a frosh at ND this year. Ilal is moving back to Chicago momentarily from Jersey. Imagine anyone giving up the Garden State. Pindar, Kelly (John) ct al., take note. Ed men­tions that JOHN WARD has just reentered prix-ate law practice in Waukegan, III. Ed is also looking for a few '40-ttcs after a football game. Have a brief questionnaire (it's.hard to fill a column with cold-statistics) from TOM McCABE right here on Long Island. Tom is married and has two daugh­
- ters. He is with the Long Island Lighting Co. and would like to hear from ANDY GANNON and ED O'DONNELL. See them at the reunion! Also a brief note from JOE HENNESSY in River Forest, 
111. Joe is an architect and has two sons and a daughter. Forgot to mention Saegert had a fine iieekend in Ch'icaso with TOM FLAD and Eileen. Tom would like to hear from BOB LAMBERT, who I'm sure is still here in NY after moring from Chicago. See him at the reunion, Bob. In looking thru the '40 Dome to coordinate a few names and faces, I happened on one fuil-page picture of BUD KERR in his All-Amcrican sweater. 
merce as its president and executive president. Recently he annotmced a sion to move from Mexico to Apple Valley, California, where he will be in the estate business. 
 vicc«  deci­
 real* 

A grateful Mexico, keenly aware of his many civic contributions, paid him the fol­lowing honors after the announcement of his decision to leave: 
The City Council passed a special reso­lution expressing gratitude for his con­tinued contribution to a better community, 
Missouri Military Academy, from which he ^va5 graduated in 1936, held a special parade and review in his honor. 
The Chamber of Commerce gave a ban­quet at the Mexico Country Club attended by more than 170 people. At the banquet Mize was presented with a handsome plaque from the citizens of Mexico thank­ing him for his sen'ice to the commimity. And the publisher of the Mexico Evening Ledger^ Robert M. White II, was the prin­cipal speaker. 
White's speech not only paid tribute to Mize but to his brother, the late Major Fred Locke Morris, who was graduated from Notre Dame in 1936. White also pointed out that Morris brothers' great grandfather built the first house in Mexico in 1836. "Since that time the Morris name has been associated with almost every progressive step taken in Mexico," he said. 
Among the guests at the banquet were several Notre Dame men, including Harold 
V. Pohhneyer '33, Lowell L. Hagan '34, Norvall M. Hunthausen '40 and Tim Hagan '59. 
Saegert had received a letter from Bud only a few days before h£s fatal heart attack. It was quite a shock. Bud has been out of football and in the hotel business in San Francisco these past few years. Remember him in your prayers. Start thinking and planning and saving for June, 1965! 
From the .-Mumni Office: ROG HUTER, former ND Alumm Board of Directors member, was on hand with a contingent from Louisville for a campus inspection tour in September. JIM HEINTZELMAN \%-as named principal of Harrison Elementary School, South Bend, this fall. MIZE MORRIS, resigned exec v-p. of the Greater Mexico C. of C , u-as honored at two community events in Mexico. Mo., in September, Mize will be assodated with a real estate and development venture in .Apple Valley, Calif. LOU BUCKLEY '28 wrote: I met my former student, BOB DOLAN, at the National Catholic Social .Action Conference _ in Boston this summer. Bob is Director of Organiza­tion of the National .Association of Credit Unions in Madison, Wisconsin. Bob also conducts classes for the Peace Corps at Notre Dame. 
'^1 James F. SpcUman 14 Dccrficld Ave. Eastchcstcr, N.Y. 

Good autumn and winter to you of '41. 
Today's (Sept. 27) wonderful showing in the football game wth Wisconsin gave your balding correspondent the incentive and initiative to scribble some items about your classmates. You will recall that in the August-Sept. '63 issue our reunion fund stood at $1902.30. Since then the amount has increased slightly to $1942^0. Heard from were: OSCAR HASTENS, $20; BERNIE NEWMANN, $10; and BILL HOYNE, $10. Thanks men; ever>- little bit helps. Again I ask anybody to %vrite if he has an idea of what would be an appropriate souvenir to give to the Class returning for the 25th Reunion only 18 months away by the time you read this. Otherwise your secretary will ask some of our Class located around the Metro­politan area to assist him In selecting something for our silver meeting. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
A note from BILL HOYNE along wiih his check says that HOWIE KORTH and his uife Gerry were in town (Dayton) in November, '63. To­gether with JACK O'BRIEN and their wives tlic)* hmd a regular reunion. Bill notes that Hutch has Aazico Airlines aircraft stationed at Dayton, San Antonio, Ogden and Oakland. Jack and Howie have their eldest sons enrolled at ND in their second year; and Bill's oldest daughter is at St. Mary's, also a sophomore. A welcome note from DAN KELLEY congratulating me on my next-son. He was one >-car old on Sept. 9, Dan. Quite a handful for your old secretary! Dan says he will be at the 25ih. Hope we have a couple hundred! 
The ND Club of NY had big doings planned for the S>Tacuse game on last Tlianksgiving. BILL CARBINE called me for information, and I had hoped to see him; however, the President's death caused a change and Bill and I never did get to­gether. He is in Rutland, Vt., operating hh own clothing business. 
Thanks for the most welcome Christmas card, ELMER KAMM. Vou can help your correspon­dent when it comes time lo arrange that extra­curricular actiiaty which will be part of our Rc­imion. I need persons living in South Bend to assist. 
A card from JOHNNY ROSS, who is chief, personnel div., VA Hospital, American Lake, Wash. Johnn>'*s card is dated Jan. 9, '64. He is to be congratulated on his promotion to chief. Says he found the "Spotlight" on JOHN SOOXG ver>* interesting. That VA Hospital is lOOO-bcd capac­ity. A verj- big one, I'd say, John. Be sure to let me knoiv any tidbits of news from our class­mates. 
DON CASSIDY was in NYC, called me last May 5, attending a systems engineering conference. Took in the Fair. Don is \rith the Argonne Nat'l Labs., in the particle acceleration div. (\Vhat is that??!) Don's family consists of two girls and three boys, one of wliom is five months old. 
Had lunch on July 24 %rith JIM MURPHY. Jim, who lives in Huntington, L.I., is with Cerro Corp. (Formerly Cerro de Pasco). His oldest boy is going to ND (right now) for graduate work, having finished four years at Stonehill. Jim has seven other children. 
A nice long letter from TOMMY DELIA, who resides in Brooklyn. .At the time he uTOte Tom w*as in the hospital for about two weeks witli an infection, and blood pressure. Can you imagine Tommy with tliat? Hope it is all cleared up by now. One of the doctors in the Bay Ridge Hosp. b "RIGGIE" ^VILLIAM DIBRIENZA, class '38. Tom also got a big bang out of the "Spotlight" on JOHNNY SOONG. In fact. Tommy says John was their unoffidal greetcr when they first arrived at the campus and took them to see the beloved FR. 0*HARA. Tom and his wife \-isited witli BILL DUNHAM this summer. Says Bill hasn't changed a bit. ^Vho has? Tommy maintains the wiping cloth business that he has operated for many years. In fact, he has been elected presi­dent of the Wiping Cloth Mfrs. Tom wants to know what has been happening to JOE MAR­RANCA, TONY ROMEO and ".MUSH" DUFFY. How about answering him, fellas? 
Now a sad commentary on our classmates. ED HULTGREN died, apparently in June or July. His son is at ND. Ed was a splendid gentleman, and it was a privilege to know him. I remember talking with Ed at the last reunion; he was look­ing for\*-ard to the 25th. Also shocking was the letter from ND telling me of the death of LOUIS REISER, who lived in NYC. Lou passed away on August 30th. I ask you all to remember these two fine men in your prayers. 
That is the extent of my items. They could be much more if you boys would loosen up and write. 
From the .\lumm OfBce: Denver Mayor TOM CURRIGAN had to suflTer through the presentation of tickets to him for the Miss Colorado Pageant in July. A picture appeared in the papers of him accepting them from a bevv of beauties, including Miss Colorado of 1963. FR. HERVE LeBLANC CSC has been named dean of King's College, where he has been a mem­ber of the faculty since 1951. 
'42 William M. Hickey 3333 West 45th Place Chicago, Hi. 

CARROLL PITKIN adx-bes that EDWARD J. DONLAVY has been appointed to the position of general manager of the plastics division of Seiber­
46 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End, 1964 
ling Rubber Companv. Congratulations to **Big E." 
PAUL NEVILLE is managing editor of the Buffalo E\-eiiins Hews. BILL KEYES is vio­prcsident of Murray-Ohio Manufacturing Co. in Nashrillc, Tetm. 
VINCE SHEILEY is executive vice-president at Briggs &. Straiton in Milwaukee. "JAKE" RIVAIT phoned Pitt recently after Jake moved to Cedar Rapids, Iowa, in his advertising position with Cherry Burrell. ED (BUCK) HALLER is now in ^Vashi^gIon, D.C , where he is in a regulatory capacity covering licensing of firms engaged in livestock transactions. CARROLL is now in prod­uct marketing for McCaulcy Metal Products in Buffalo. 
GEORGE FAIRLEY, an erstwhile member of the Class, is now working in Baltimore. 

CHARLIE MacFARLANE is hoping to hear the results from his New York bar examinations any day. He is now working with JIM McGOLDRICK '39 at 11 Broadu-ay, N.Y. So with DON F. CON­NORS as a lawyer, we have at least two in N.Y. 
ANDY CHERNEY has just completed his 18th year of law practice in Hamilton, Ohio, where he specializes in trial practice. Andy ser\'ed as a delegate at large at the National Convention this past summer. 
From the Alumni Office: Chicago's Quiglc>- Prcp3rator>* Seminar^' Nortli school paper for Sept. 30, had a full-page tribute to STEVE JUZWICK, their coach, after his death. FR. DICK BUTLER'S (OP) address to the Col­lege and University Section of the 1964 National Catholic Educational Assn. Convention on "The Newman Apostolatc: Cultural Contribution to Higher Education" has been widely printed. GEORGE STRATIGOS, a South Bend attorney, was elected supreme counselor, the chief legal office of the American Hellenic Education Progres­sive Assn., at its 42nd convention in Toronto, Ont., Canada, last August. BOB MILLER was a candidate for the US Con­gress from the Third District of Indiana, running on the GOP ticket. JOHN BERGEN, Glen Ell>-n, 111., has been ap­pointed v-p. and field sales mgr. for the Pullman-Standard div. of Pullman, Inc. ED DRAKE, chairman of the dcpt. of social studies at a Wheaton, Md., high school, has been appointed assoc. prof of history at Bloomsburg State College in Bloomsburg, Pa. BILL HOSINSKI, South Bend, has been elected new president of the St. Joseph County Bar Assn. MOTHER M. LUKE TOBIN S L MA'42, head of the major national organization of women religious and director of one of the nation's biggest sisterhoods, was named one of the 15 women observers at the Second Vatican Council. LOU BUCKLEY '28 wrote: "I was pleased to participate on a TV program ^v•ith JIM M^AD­DEN, acting labor commissioner of the City of New York, who has de\'eloped a program called Volunteers ior Learning to improve the educa­tional level among the poor in New York City," 
'42 -*^ wijBS""* 
5125 Briggs Ave. LaCrcsccnta, Cal. 

From the Alumni Office: 
F. GERALD FEENEY was elected advocate of his K of C Council in South Bend. 
BILL EARLEY and GENE PASZKIET '50 won the sixth annual "buddy am-am" tournament spon­sored by the William J. Burke Golf Assn. at ND in July. Bill was co-chairman of the K of C smoker before the Purdue game and had ARA PARSEGHIAN as his speaker. 
In July US Atty. ED HANRAHAN flew to ^Va5hington, D.C , to confer with Justice Dept. officials about James HofTa's attempts to bribe the jury at his trial. 
After being tied for the first 27 holes, GENE FEHLING went ahead to win his second district golf championship with a 3 and 2 \ictory in St. Louis on July 12. Gene's daughter Kathy is in her junior year at SMC. 
Mi l JoscphA. Ncufdd P.O. Box 853 Green Bay, Wis. 

Our most capable class secretary of many years. one GEORGE BARISCILLO, has been promoted (the democratic form of election) to the presi­dency of the Class and yours truly elected (also most democratically) to secretary. It will be dif­ficult to fill George's shoes because he did a most tremendous and fantastic job, and all of us are very indebted to him for keeping us posted through the years. He moved recently to 444 Golf Road, Deal Park, N.J., and is amuous still to hear from you, promising to forward the news. Evidently his mail has been rather slim. 
BEN MAMMINA, however, was most prompt in \*Titing the new secretary. He mentioned that JIM THOMAS and JOE VAN DYKE as well as CREIGHTON MILLER won prizes in the reunion golf tourney. Only "Crcight" was given credit in the last report. Ben, Jim, TOM HALLIGAN and JOHN HENNEBERGER planned to be on tho campus for the Purdue game. 
Evcr>one of the Class of *44 should know that arrangements were made for a hospitality room at the Morris Inn for ND home games. It was strictly for class members and their guests. Such procedure probably unll be continued next season. Mrs. Galand Funk, Muncie, Ind., mother of my roommate, the late G. V. FUNK, writes fre­quently and occasionally has news about JOHN CLYNE and TOM DUFFY. Dr. John lives in Lincoln, Nebraska, and Tom, at the last report, u-as headquartering in Atlanta, Georgia. 
WALLACE CHRISTMAN's 80 was low gross at Green Bay's ND Club annual golf outing, but Wallie would have had stiff competition from JOE FIEWEGER had he not been in Chicago at a paper convention. Recently Joe moved to Green Bay and is vice-president of the Shawano Paper Co. DR. KEN FORBES gave up the game of golf after the reunion tourney but was on hand foi^ the dinner following the 'local outing. Golf coun­ters don't tabulate high enough to record the high gross yours truly had, but he did manage his first and probably last deuce in spite of his 130 score. 
DUDLEY BIRDER, '50, associate professor ot music at St. Norbcrt College, West Dc Pcre, Wis., and brother of the late JIM BIRDER, wonders the whereabouts of ED CASHMAN. They worked together on campus shows after the war. Dud has been doing a wonderful job directing and pro­ducing musical productions, the latest being "My Fair Lady," which ran for seven sellout perform­ances in early fall. 
"BLACK JOHN" MURPHY wrote Uiat JOE WALSH and JOE SIMON should be included in the class roster. (There is that war mlxup again.) The former finished in '46, later received a doc-j torate in chemistr>% taught at Fordham, then* achieved a law degree there. Recently he and his family moved to Oakland, Calif., where he is on the legal staff of Kaiser Aluminum. JOE SIMON is with Humble Oil and lives in West­
field, N.J. 
There has been no word from BEN BRUNETTI since his wedding July 4. Do you suppose he's still honeymooning? That goes for VINCE DUN­CAN too. It was too bad that VIC DE SIMON and JIM MALONE fractured their respective "write" arms. Perhaps they will be able to post a note before many more moons. 
It was thrilling lo see ND's great opening \-ic­
tory over Wisconsin in September. The weather was lousy, but the game more tlian compensated. First-row seats are fine for seeing people but art^ pretty bad for watching a game. JOE DILLON was on hand, as also were BOB THUM\f and GENE SLEVIN. FRTTZ FUNK, LaCrosse, Wis., an original *44er but later a '46cr, was there too. Several other class members enjoyed the victor>' celdiration at Madison's Park\%-ay Inn. DOM BOETTO and his wife Terry, without any of their nine children, drove up from JoHct, 111., while PAUL COLIANNI and Fran came from .\rlington Heights, 111. The>* promised to spread the word in their respective areas that this colum­nist needs news. 
Only four years plus a few months remain until our 25th reunion. ED DUNNIGAN's slogan. *'Rise and Shine in 'Gd^" adopted most appropriate­ly by the class of '44, should be a reminder to alii that it isn't too early to plan for that great occa­sion. Keep the news items coming. Let there be a ton of mail between now and the next deadline. 
From the Alumni Office: CREIGHTON MILLER served as moderator, advisor and spokesman at a meeting of representa­tives of the football circuits' players assns. 
CHUCK PATTERSON'S picture appeared in a recent issue of the Perini News dialling with a Stockholder during the annual stockholders meet­ing. 
BOB GALVZN helped raise $330,000 at a $100­plate dinner for the GOP campaign for governor in niinois. 
HARRY LAVERY has become associated with the law firm of Bergcr, Ncwmark & Fcnchel in Chicago. 
3 JERRY STANTON wrote: "I thought the June reunion session was very pleasant despite the occa­sional rainfall. Needless to say, I am looking forward to 1969, which should be a big year for the Class of 1944." 
Come ALIVE in '65.' 
Class of '45 Anniversary 20 REUNION—June 1M2-13 
9 •^ C Frank M. Linchan General Electric Co. 600 Main St Johnson City, N.Y. 
During August the Class listing with the most current mailing addresses was received by the *45ers calling attention to our 20th Reunion—^Junc 11, 12, 13, 1965 — so let's start drumming up tlie BIG WEEKEND. In checking our records against the class roster wc found 172 members of our class have completed the questionnaire forwarded dur­ing the holidays of '62 and '63. TIiis is only about 50 per cent return from tlie Class, We w-ant to 
Aea r from those who have yet to respond so our records can be up to date at Reunion time. 
JIM CLYNES, after touring Robert F. Kennedy around Tompkins County, where Jim is county Democratic chairman, took off for Tokyo and the 01>'mpics. I had lunch with Jim early this sum­mer in Ithaca. He is still promoting—this sum­mer it was the X.V. Giants-Washington Redskins Fingerlakes Bowl game. 
HARRY WALTERS now has law offices uptown and downtown — one in Manhattan and the other in the Bronx. 
JIM DONNELLY is seeking^ more dues money so wc can have a BIG fling next June. 
DR. BOB MARSKE checks in from Michigan City, Ind., where he specializes in pediatrics. He is active in the area medical societies and is past president of the St. Anthony's Hospital staff. Bob 
(And Leola have two sons and a daughter. In the last column of the year we like to pass along the congratulations and best wishes of the Class to those classmates who had wedding anni­versaries during the year. To the following class­mates and their charming wives go our wishes for many, many more happy years of married strife — 
t
20th Aimiversar>-: Robert and Yvonne Connelly. 15th Anntversar>': Rudy and Helen /Vnderson (sister of DON O'DONNELL '45), Harry and Mar>' Ann Berliner, Jim and Sally Berbsbach, Dr. Tom and Nan Frances Blackhurst, Don and Marian Cisle, John and Dolloretta Clcr>-, Dr. Charles and Barbara Crown, Dr. John and Marilyn Dowling, Dr. Owen and Cynthia Doyle, John and Kathleen Fcno, Frank and Evelyn Fitzgibbons, Dr. Gil and ouiscne Gillespie, Bud and Patricia Gotta, Dr. en and Lucille Kehl, Jim and Mar>- Jean Lamb, Al and Betty Lesmez, Charles and Marjoric Lug-ton, Dr, Bob and Leola Marske, Byron and Pa­tricia Martin, Dick and Chris Martin, J. T* and .\nna Marie Rumbach, Harry and Dolores Ryan, John and Sancv Ryan. Dick and Corine Sadow­ski, Ted and Dorothy Weber, and John and Eileen Welch. 
10th Anniversar>*: Ray and Anne Baddour. Tom and Barbara Bcrgin. Jim and Charlotte Butler, Jrse and Thelma Cardenas. Bob and Suzanne Cronin, Vernon and Eileen Frost, and John and Margaret Madden. 
5th Anniversary*: Dr. Bill and Lucy Fanizzi, Sam and Marie Rizk, and Terr>' and Greta Wilson. 

•W To all many happy returns — and how about some questionnaires returned to the Class Sccrc­tar>? 
From the Alumni Office: REV. JOHN E. ^VALSH CSC, Wcc-president for public relations and development at ND, accepted an invitation to write for the Library* of Educa­tion and has prepared a monograph on "Education and Political Power." Fr. Walsh participated in the national convention of the American College Public Relations Assn. in California last July and spoke on "Changing Patterns of Higher Education and Their Impact on Catholic Institutions." He also participated in the 18th Institute of Higher Education at Nashville in July. 
GEORGE W. RATTERMAN '48 In Newport Cleanup, Signals from Sheriff 
Recently, while lecturing a teen group on responsible driving. Sheriff George Rat­terman whipped out his driver's license only to find that it had expired! It's this kind of colorful anecdote, coupled with his fantastic career as a college and professional quarterback, that often obscures George's present career as a law>'er, author, broad­caster and public ser\*ant, and his really significant achievement as a |X)litical re­former in cleaning up the town of Newport, Ky. 
His verj' versatility and virtuosity in ath­letics kept George from the national promi­nence enjoyed by other Irish signal callers. Called by Frank Leahy "the greatest all-around athlete in the histor>- of Notre Dame," he was one of four athletes in ND history to win monograms in four \-arsity sports — football, basketball, baseball and tennis. While majoring in electrical engi­neering and economics, he took part in championship tennis and basketball com­petition and understudied Johnny Lujacfc at quarterback during the Irish "national championship" Forties. Entering the ND 
FRANK TENCZAR has been appointed to the faculty of the U. of Illinois as an asst. prof, of patholosy in the college of medicine and has left his pri%*atc practice. 
DAVE CONDON' gave a very interesting book review of "Manv a Saturday .Afternoon," an auto­biography by Mary (.Mrs. H/VRRY) STUHL­DREHER in the book section of the Chicago Tribune. 
Peter P. Richiski 
'46 
60 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Conn. 
From the Alumni Office: REV. DANIEL O'NEIL CSC is the new rector for Walsh Hall here on campus. CHUCK BARTLETT is now asst. v-p. and acting mgr. of the international div. for the Valley Na­tional Bank in Phoenix, Ariz. 
Law School without a degree, he attended 
several law schools during his pro football 
career and received his LL.B in 1956. 
Over ten years he played football with 
such teams as the Buffalo Bills, New Yoric 
Yanks, Montreal Aloucttes and Cleveland 
Browns, winning many awards (e.g., **Best 
Dressed Player" in 1950) and narrowly 
missing others like the AU-Star M.V.P. 
Award (he was edged by one vote by Otto 
Graham for Rookie of the Year in 1947). 
During these years he also helped to coach 
at Xavier, St. Bonaventure and the Univer­
sity of Mississippi. 
During these same years George was very active in business, associated with stock­broker firms like W. E. Hutton & Co. and Bache & Co. He was vice-president of a Cincinnati consulting firm. Pension & Group Consultants Inc., and served as in­vestment and tax counsel for Thomas Em­ery Sons Inc. He sold over 51 million in life insurance one year for Equitable of New York. He is now associated with a law firm in Cincinnati and also maintains a law oflice in Newport as legal counsel for the .American Football League Players Assn. .-V talented pianist and radio-TV per­former in his Buffalo days, he has been do­ing "color" for ABC-TV Sports for the past four years. 
But it ivas in 1961 that he gained his greatest fame by Joining the fight of New­port's Protestant leaders against gambling, prostitution and political bribery in the city. Securing a statement from Covington's Bishop .'^ckerraan, he rallied Catholic pro­test, and when it began to wane he de­cided to run for office as sheriff of Camp­bell County. The vice forces tried to dis­credit him by drugging him and staging a phony arrest. The "framcup" nearly suc­ceeded, but he was vindicated in a stormy trial and an election landslide. Without jailing the offenders (he found legitimate work for many) he closed down Newport's nine brothels and threw 200 professional gamblers out of business in the city's in­famous "night clubs." 
George married Ann Hengelbrok of Cin­cinnati in 1947. They now have nine chil­dren ranging in age from 1 to 15. Faced with the prospect of a lower income as a public ser\"ant, George remembered the parable of the lilies of the field. He has managed to keep ahead of expenses by writing a book. Confessions of a Gypsy Quarterback, about his football experiences, and he intends to make a career in poliucs. 
•4 7 Jack MHes 
3218 Bcntley Lane South Bend, Ind. 
ARA GO BRACK! DEE-UGHTFUL! 
As this edition goes to bed, the Ftghtia* Irish footballers arc undefeated and have made the Vic« tory Aforch mean somctliing again. Early zodica­tions are that ARA PARSEGHIAN's lads are the most spirited, bone-crunching, alert team to wear the Gold and Blue since FRANK LEAHVs tenure. 
And by the time you receive this, basketball season will be underway. New Head Cf>ac]| JOHNNY DEE says his behemoths of the back­board uiH be run-run-running, so look out for thoie lOO-points-plus games. 
Two ^rcat new head coaches, and a new field-house yet . . . can we stand such good fortune? 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
CHALLENGE II 
Speaking of the ficldhousc (the athletic and convocation center, properly), whidx depends on the success of the University's Challenge II pro­gram, at least one of our classmates is active in the drive, according to Newsletter No. 1; be is DR. UlLLIAM J. DUNN, who Iieads the Parents Committee in the Phoenbc, Ariz., area. 

GLE.\K1NGS . . ­With the keen sense for deadlines that charac­tcrires the profcssio/ial newshawk, JIM MURPHY made sure his sixth cliild would arrive in time to be featured in this issue; and spouse Barbara, obedient to the core, bore her responsibility — and daughter Kathleen Rose — cxemplarily via Oct. 7 delivcrj'. During a recent business trip to Chicago, your Sec'y did a telephone turn with J/VCK. NOONAX; Jack's with the FBI, helping that remarkable or­ganization safeguard the Nation*s security. Several moves have been made on the national checkeri>oard in the past several months: JOHN BURKE from Fayettevillc, Ark., to Whcaton, III.; JIM CARR from Gar>% Ind., to Titusvillc, Pa.; ERNIE CLAUSING from Downers Grove, lU.. to Pittsburgh; HERB DALTON from Munstcr, Ind., to Princeton Junction, N.J.; TED DEMMERLE from Manilus, N.Y.. to New Canaan, Conn.; VERN GUDKESE from Eau Gallic, Fla., to Bcrea, O.; JOHN LYNCH from Stamford, Conn., all the way to the Palos Verdcs Peninsula in California; BERNIE METER from Cleveland to Decatur, 111.; ERNIE MILLER from Mentor, C , to New York City; Naval Commander JOHN PRESTWICH from Dayton, O., to Rockville, Md.; DICK PROSCHE from Napcnille, III., to Pitts­burgh; and FRANCIS SHANNON from Applcton, Wis., to Fairfax, Va. And on a broader graph, Lt. Comm. DON HAINES has been transferred from San Diego to a San Francisco FPO, and Our Man in the Diplo­matic Corps, JIM KELLY, is currently scr\ing in the American Embassy in Rome. 
DE UTTSnAE. . . . 

Herewith some excerpts from three shorties penned by BRO. I\'AN DOIJVN CSC, Our Man in Pakis­tan: *'. . . More and more of our Garos are returning from Assam. Unlike Job, they do not 
hai'c even a heap to sit an. Hence, the need ol 
mone>*. . . . 
*'nic number of students in my high scliool is 

still on the increase. .. . I hope to have close to 
150 kids attending classes regularly; that's about 
•where I was three or four years 0.^0. Most of these kids cannot buy their books or pay their school fees. So I buy the books and pay the teachers, and hope and hope. .. . 
"As little as $20 keeps one student in food, clothes, and school for the rest of the year. .. . 
"There have been big floods in East Pakistan, 

but the floods have not affected our missions in 
Garo land. ^Ve arc all of 65 feet above sea level. 
Most of the missions in the south have been under 
water for a month, schools closed, churches full 
of water, etc . . . 
"BRO. THOMAS MORE BEERE CSC has re­

turned from six months in the States. Tliis was 
his second trip home since he first came in 1948. 
He is headmaster of St. Gregor\-'s High School 
in Dacca. , . . 
". . . This Christmas will not be like the others for most of the people here. There will be no cdchrations and little rejoicing. It will be more in keeping with the first Christmas in the stable: straw for a bed, rags to keep out the cold, noth­ii^ much to wear. But even there ifary and Joseph tried to supply what meager comforts the>' could ior the Child. ,^nd later on He told us what we do for the least of His children, we do for Him. 
"I hope you will remember me again this year .. . I won't put up a Christmas tree; I won't buy to>-s. But I will buy rice and some blankets for the poor refugees who are returning from the hills of Assam. I would like to get my Christmas shopping in early. The stable is already here; already He is sleeping on straw and has nothing but rags to put on. He is hungry*. . . . " 
BLESSED CHRISTMAS 

Let Brother I\-an's words echo as my Christmas message to you all. May you reap all the blessings of the Nativity season and enjoy all good things in 1965. 
From the Alumni OfHcc: 
JOHN THOMAS was elected pres. of the Cin­onnad Industrial Advertisers. John is advertising mgr. of the Philip Carey Mfg. Co. 
4B Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
JOE THIE JR. now li\-ing in Minneapolis, was 
a US delegate to the Tliird United Nations Inter­
national Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic 
Energy held in September in Gcne\*a. 
ERNIE MILLER joined AT&T in January of 
this year with a promotion from lus Oiiio Bell job 
and in July he was promoted to chief engineer of 
Michigan Bel] Tclrphone. 
JOHN CASSIDY is a democratic candidate for 
the state legislature in Illinois. 
JIM MURPHY, ND director of public informa­
tion participated in the national convention of 
the Am. College Public RcJaiJoDS Assn. in July. 
Jim and his wife welcomed Kathleen Rose into 
their family on Oct. 7. 
JAMES A. CARR has been appointed plant man­ager of the "ntusWIIe Crankshaft and Machine Co., Titusv-illc, Pa., which is being operated by the Standard Steel Dinsion of Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton Corp. under a management contract. Jim was manu­facturing superintendent of the Taylor Forge Com­pany, at Gary, Ind., prior to this appointment. 
George J. Keenan 
'48 177 Rolling Hills Rd. 
Clifton, N.J. 
Now that the summer is over it is time again 
to look forward to the Saturday afternoon sched­
ules to sec what fate has in store for Notre Dame 
as far as restoring our reputation on the gridiron. 
Notre Dame men arc getting too used to seeing 
our team unpredicated as a top team in the coun­
try and few of its players picked as AIl-American 
material. We hope that our fortunes in 19G4 will 
be better. We all know that the other schools 
do not have as good a library* as wc do, and we 
hope that our football team will also be better 
than the rest. 

In the absence of any material to keep tliis column going, I sent out 25 letters to some of our classmates who attended our last reunion. Although there were almost 100 there I figured I would send 25 at this time and get the rest later in order to keep the news more balanced. Tlie 25 that I wrote to were the more vociferous for a more interesting class column. I have heard from one so far, and thanks to EV SCHLECK we have a few bits of info for this issue. 
TIic information that Ev passes on is that he is assistant treasurer of Buc^Tus-Eric Co. in Mil­waukee- .\t the recent ND Club Golf Outing in Milu-aukec he dined uith BOB HART.MAN, who is with Burroughs in Milwaukee. Ev, being some­what of a golfer himself, sa>-s that L.ARRY RYAN writes from Dallas that he is preparing to defend his class championship in 1968. TIic basis of bis preparation has been daily pla\-ing this past sum­mer. (It's nice to know that some of us have it made!) He also passes on the information that .A.L SALVI is the "Marrying Sam" of Lake Zurich, 111., ha\-ing been a Justice of the Peace there for the past few years. "BUD'* ROTHING and his wife Kiki have eight children — se\'en boys and one girl. Bud is vice-president of the ^!idwest Stock Exchange in Chicago. Well, thank you, Ev, for the help—and I will be sure to tell BUNKY RE.\GAN that you arc still waiting for tltose Ban-Lon Shirts medium size. I understand that deliveries have been lagging a little, but I am sure Bunky will get them to you in time for the 20-year reunion aftair. 
^Vo^d from a third floor Dillon Hall repre­sentative, BUD WILKES, has just drifted in, and Bud tells us that he is back in Savannah, Ga., with the Straclian Shipping Company and as a \ice­
prcsident. Bud was in Norfolk, New Orleans and Houston these past 16 years with this company and has returned to his home state finally with his wife Sara and their three children: Mitch, 12; Tom, 9; and Barbara, 2. 
In answer to many pleas, some word has come in from tlic West Coast. BILL GRIFFY is now located in Pasadena, where his fifth diild was bom recently, and ED RECKER, our ND Founda­tion man, u-as on hand to be the godfather at the baptism. Bill tells us that GEORGE TERLEP resigned his post as general manager of the Ottaiva Rough Riders in the Canadian Football League and has retiuned to Elkhart to go into his own business after manv years of football. Also that FRANK DEBITETTO is in the automobile busi­ness in Columbus, O. lV*hiIe in HoIK^i•ood recently. Bill thought he saw TONY MISTRETTA, but it was Yul Br>-nner. Thanks for the help, Bill, and let us hear from you again. 
We recently had occasion to write to TOM HER­BERT and pass on D.\N HESTER's new ad­dress. Tom replied that everything is going well except that he has a slipped disc and will have I 
it slipped back in place one of these days. This |i 
is the result of an old injury Tom incurred while V 
working on the parallel bars at Si^'ecncy's G>'n^K* 
nasium in South Bend during Tom's senior year™ 
Just as you say, Tom, it's the price you old 
athletes have to pay as you carry these aches 
and pains into your later years. 
D.AN GENTILE, who has been a sales repre­

sentative for the Radio Corporation of ' America 
in the western part of the United States, has 
recently been named manager of sales planning 
and development for RCA Victor Television. Dan 
has been in many different capacities with RCA. 
and we arc pleased to hear of his new position 
and tvish him the best of luck. 
We were very saddened to hear during the sum­

mer of the sudden and untimely passing away of 
JOE CATTALANI of Rochester, N.Y. Joe ha ^ 
many friends in the Class of *48, and I am surW 
his passing will be remembered by all his clxss­
matcs in their Masses and prayers. Joe was a 
district sales manager for ^Vestinghouse Appliance 
Sales in the Rochester Area, and he is survived 
by his wife and five children. 
We have also been informed just recently that 

STAN STONE passed away on Jan. 8 at his 
home in LaCrcscenla, Calif. Those of us who 
remember Stan as a real gay and jovial guy will 
be saddened by his untimely death, and he will 
also be remembered in tlie prayers and Masses of 
his fellow classmates. 
Now that FRANK TRIPUCKA has finally retired from pro football he is doing the commc^tar^* on the telerised New York Jets football games. AN ^ GELO BERTELLI is doing the commcntar>- on the Princeton games on radio. Weekend football brings the voices and appearances of many Notre Dame football greats into millions of homes when such personalities as JOHNNY LUJACK, GEORGE RATTERMAN, TERRY BRENNAN, FRANK TRIPUCKA, ANGELO BERTELLI, JOE O'TOOLE etc., to name a few give their commentary of the events of the day. 
By notice of change of address I see that JOE YONTO is an assistant football coach at ND. Also that CHARLES TURVEY has moved from Hous­ton, Tex., to Wevbridge Surrey, England; that JOHN BARRY SULLI\^AN has moved from San Diego to Alexandria, Va.; that JIM SECKINGER lives at 363 Sing Sing Road, Horschcads, N.Y.; that ROGER O'REILLY moved from Sioux Citv. Iowa to Westbury, L.I., N.Y.; that JOHN .MINICLIE^ is a Lt. Col. in the USMC at Quantico; LARRw KEENAN moved from York Harbor, Me., to Rockville, Md.; FRANK KAISER has relocated from Cainbridge, Mass., to Ames, Iowa.; TOM EARLS has a new zip code number; JIM CAR­ROLL is back from Talara, Peru, and is in Long Beach, Calif., etc 
You can sec that when there is no particular neve's we can refer to the mail list changes. In the past year more than 10 per cent of the class has changed their address. Some are local and some are distant but it shoe's the class of 1948 was not one to stand still — always on the move! 
This is it for now. Those of you who have helped out — thanks a lot. Those of you who haven't — how about joining the club? 
From the Alumni Office: The Decatur, 111., ND Club turned out en masse at St. Patrick's on Oct. 31 to witness the wedding of BUZZ MORAN and Mrs. Viola Ritchard, widow of a friend xvho u-as killed about the time his own wife died. Good luck to the newl\-weds. JOE KRUYER, a member of the American Insti­tute of Architects, has joined the architectural firm of Donlon-Lofgren & Assocs., with offices in Mish­awaka and St. Joseph, Mich. Joe is currently serving as grand knight for his K. of C. Council. FR. HESBURGH has named BRO. RAPHAEL \VILSON CSC as assistant head of the department of biology for the coming year. DAN HUNTOON has been named Phoenix, Ariz ^ dty mgr. for Hertz Rent A Car. W FRANK SIERAWSKI ran for Congress from the I8th district of Michigan. JOHN O'BRIEN announced the formation of a new real estate firm in South Bend to be known as O'Brien Realty Inc. John is kept busy directing St. Joseph Bank & Trust Co., the Hamlet State Bank, and the ND Club of St. Joseph Valle>-. The TOM DOOLEY Foundation opened another hospital in Laos in September. DR. FRANCIS DUGGAN spent the summer teaching at State U. in Albany, N.Y. His ^rife spent six weeks visiting her family in South Bend. They are llring in Santa Clara, Calif. GEORGE CONNOR, CBS announcer of NFL games, and a friend are spearheading a Chicago­
land drive for funds for the national collegiate gridiron hall. As yet they have not announced Jh e details. 
9 FRED SHADLEV, former director of aerospace electronics, is now general mgr. of engineering for Avco's Electronics Dixision. 
TO%f McGRATH, a Democratic political novice, waged a vigorous campaign this year against the incumbent in New Jcrse>-'s traditionally GOP Sec­ond Congressional District. Retroactive good luck, Tom. 
Secretary GEORGE KEENAN sent the svnipathy o! the Class to Mrs. JOSEPH CATTALANI (*50) on the passing of Joe, telling her that his many friends in '48 would pray for him. 
When JOHNNY RAY showed up late for the opening of "picture day" exercises of the football team and showed off a. hand painted Clierokt-c red 
^n d the finger nestled in an aluminum cast, he said he was glad it was him and not one of the players. Touch football is not such a safe game after all. 
Notre Dame got a grant of $3,000 from the CBS Foundation recently in appreciation for the scr\'ices of one of the network's top executives. EDWARD R. KENEFICK. Ed is general sales manager for WBBM-TV in Chicago. 
" ' 155 Driftwood Lane Rochester 21, N.Y. 

f
»nrom the Alumni Oflice: Congratulations to LEO BARNHORST and CHARLES ROMER, both representatives for .-\m. United Life Ins. Co., on receiving the Chartered Life Underwriter designation, highest educational actiievcmcnt honor bestowed by the life insurance industr>-. When you write to them be sure and add the coveted CLU after their names. Tills season TERRY BRENNAX joined Lindscy Nelson to help handle the play-by-play commentary for the National Collegiate Athletic Association's football game-of-the-week series. FR/\NK CAPPIELLO has been named nigr. of Dorcmus & Co. Inc.'s institutional dept. at Bal­timore. DICK HOY has been admitted to partnership in the accounting firm of Arthur .Andersen & Co. GEORGE PATTERSON JR, asst. director of in­dustrial relations for American Machine & Foundry ^o. , has been appointed deputy director of AMF's personnel & industrial relations div. Good in retrospect luck to J. LINDO SILVER in his bid for clerk of the Appellate Court in the fiftli district of Illinois. Capt. JIM SMITH recently completed the AF Institute of Technolog>''s "education with industry" program in industrial planning and procurement at the Aerojet General Corp. in Sacramento. Cah'f.. and has been selected for assignment as deputy cliief of production in the ofHcc of the USAF plant representative to Boeing Airplane Co. in Wichita, Kan. In August he was scheduled for promo­tion to major. PAT J. KENNY SJ has finished his theological ^tudies in California, and is now taking his final Vcar of Jesuit training, called tertiansliip. Tliis course will last ten months, during which he will be at St. Stanislaus, 5629 State Rd.. Cleveland 34. Ohio. "Campion's Approach to Physical Fitness," con­tained in the May issue of the Ph\-sical Educator, national professional quarterly with an international circulation prompted so many inquiries that DICK FRIEND composed a brochure on Campion's phys­ical fitness decathlon in response to the widespread interest evidenced in that facet of the total program. Maj. CHARLES WAGNER USAF of South Bend was recently cited for having completed the Indus­trial College of the Armed Forces' correspondence course, entitled "The Economics of National Sccur­it>'," with honors. Philosophy professors JOHN FITZGER^\LD and alph Mclnerney won the ND Men's Golf Assn. lampionship held in August. JIM REEDY, formerly asst. general counsel, has been elected a general solicitor for the Milwaukee Road, with headquarters in Chicago. Capt. BILL CARNAHAN has been transferred from Truxx Field, Wis., to duty with a Pacific Air Forces unit at Hickam AFB, Hawaii. Prof. TOM BRODEN spoke at a symposium on *'TIie Kennedy Administration and the American Economy" held at ND. SYLVESTER THEISEN MA '49 received the 1964 award of the Catholic Press Assn. of America for the "article making the greatest contribution to Catholic scholarship" with his "Man and Nuclear Weapons." He is an assoc. prof, of socioIog>' at St. John's U., Collegcvillc, Minn. 
ANTONIO L. MORTENSEN '49 
(with Ivonne) 

In Ecuador, a Private Partner for Progress 
We have heard a great deal about the self-help provisions of the Alliance for Progress, whereby our South American neighbors are expected to demonstrate an effort toward economic and social improve­ment, but we have heard very little about the implementation of the policy, particu­larly in the private sector. While politicians continue to offer slogans, however, these "bootstrap" ideas are being put into prac­tice quietly and effectively by young execu­tives of native corporations. Such a man is Ing. Antonio Mortensen C, plant manager of C. A. Ecuatoriana de Ceramica. 
Come ALIVE in '65.' Class of '50 Anniversary 15 REUNION—June 1M2.13 
•C A  Richard F. Halin  
'»  '  47 Emerson  Rd.  
Glen Rock,  N.J.  

From the Alumni Office: GENE PASZKIET and BILL E/\RLEY '43 won the sixth annual "buddy am-am" tournament spon­sored by the William J. Burke Golf Assn. at ND in July. DICK GAGNON JD '50, exec. v-p. and secy, of SoIIitt Construction Co., South Bend, has been ap­pointed a member of the board of St. Joseph Hospital. DR. JIM CARBERRY, assoc prof, of cliemical engineering at ND, went all out on lecturing in July and for LBJ in the fall. HERB SAMPSON, formerly asst. v-p., has been named v-p of marketing for the Northern Natural Gas Co., in Omaha. Herb is a freshman on the national Alumnt Board. 
Since graduation in chemical engineer­ing, Tony has returned to Ecuador and married Yolanda Chiriboga. They now have a six-year-old daughter named Ivonne. He has also moved steadily from tech­nology to management and made a name throughout the continent for the social reforms he has introduced. 
During his past four years managing Ecuatoriana de Ceramica in the city of Rio­bamba, the plant has gained national prom­inence for its programs: a proht-sharing plan, whereby workers can procure shares in the company and receive an annual per­centage of the profits; an urbanization proj­ect, with 126 private lots sold to factory workers; and an education program pro­moting systematized personal sa^angs. A by­product of this work has been the influence exerted on other industries and the pro­mulgation of government decrees favoring industries which permit workers to become stockholders. 
For more than three years Tony has directed a movement called "Cruzada So­cial" which attempts to replace the tradi­tional almsgiving to the needy with an orientation process to develop personal initiative and training, both technical and moral, for an honest livelihood. The moral education is to be extended to the entire family of each participant. Cruzada Social has procured an urbanization tract adjoin­ing that of the factory* workers. The move­ment has purchased land, some 12,000 square meters in extent, to be tised for the organization's first social club. Clubs are envisioned to provide wholesome recreation as well as open horizons to personal initia­tive for economic progress. 
The club has a small library, a work­shop, an adult education course in progress and access to various professional services. It is the Cruzada's policy to help only those who are willing to help themselves. Tony firmly believes that direct aid (including international aid) which demands nothing of the receiver is capable of deforming the character of Ecuadorians and making them mere parasites. 
Tony is pictured with a beard but begs us not to conclude that he is a "fidelista": he had worn the facial adornment, he as­sures us, long before the Cuban dictator came to power. 
Capt. ROBERT BUZAN has graduated from the training course for USAF missile launch officers at Shcppard AFB, Tex. Bob learned to operate and direct repair of Titan II missile systems and has been assigned to an S.\C unit at Vandenbers AFB, Calif. 
ART GOULET has announced his association u*ith ED SMITH LLB '30 for the general practice of Jaw In South Bend. 
Tliis summer the dept. of music at Southwest Missouri State College announced the first full-length summer opera production in the collegers history under the directorship of BOB RUETZ. 
Our s>-mpathy to .Mrs. AVZLLIAM WIGHTKIN on the death of her father, Herbert *'Hep" Waech­ter of South Bend. 
GENE BITTNER received his master's for the teaching of ph>*sical education from Western Michi­gan U. at the July commencement. 
Robert Klingenboger 
•51 
3403 Humes Dr. Ft. yfzjve, Ind. 

While in Washington, D.C., on Labor Dzr> I saw TOM MULLEN and his wife, Julie, living at 4902 Kellogg Dr., McLean, Va. They have a son 
iVoIre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 49 
8!/~ >TS. old and Tom is u-ith Vertol Div. of Boeing. 
Talked \«th MATTY O'DOXNELL, 5100 28th St., Arlington, Va.; he is with the Judge Advocate General's Office in Washington. 
HANK XL\DDEN u-as in Ft. Wayne on business. He is works manager for AUis-Chalmcrs in Pitts­burgh, and he and Sally arc also back in school. Hank for a mastcr*s and Sally for a bachelor's degree. The>' live ivith their two girls and one boy at 9380 .Mmar PI., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
IG SOISSON is back from Calcutta. India, but not quite to the U.S. He is treasurer of the Union Carbide Mexican operations. He, Tina and their son, Kevin, are u-orking on Spanish with Kcnn doing tlie best of all three. His business address is Union Carbide Medcana, S..\.. Av. Presidenic Masarvk No. 8, Mexico 5, D.F. 
PETER C. GREEN died April 24, 1954. 

BILL COONEY is back in .Augusta, Ga., prac­ticing law with Thurmond, Hester, Jallcs & Mc-Elmurray, Southern Finance Building, Augusta, Ga. 
Since this issue wtil be arriWng in December please put me on your Christmas list with some information on current address, family and oc­cupation. 
ifcrr^' Christmas and a Happy New Year! 

From the Alumni Office: 
HARVEY O'NEILL has joined Gulf Oil Corp. as production mgr. of the mixed fertilizer operation and will be located in the Spencer Div. general offices in Kansas City. DICK AfAH/VN was ap­pointed cliief gas engineer for Han'cy's competitor. Shell Oil Co., and ^nll work in the exploration and production area with hdqrs. in New Orleans. 
JIM CARROLL was one of three campaign co­ordinators for the Indiana GOP in the Nox'cmbcr elections. 
JAKE JANOWSKI, editor of the Notre Dame magazine, attended the national convention of the Am. College Public Relations Assn. held in Los Angeles last July. 
DICK STE\^ENS, assoc. prof, of reading devel­opment at ND, had his photographs exhibited in September at Morcau Hall galleries, St. Mary's College. 
FR. CHARLES M.ATUSIK CSC, asst. prof, of English at King's College and a member of the faculty since 1960, has been appointed director of admissions. 
Dr. LEWIS GEVANTTMAN PhD '51, head of the chemical technology div. at the US Na\'al Radiolog­ical Defense Lab in San Frandisco, has received a two-year appointment as senior scientific advisor to the US mission to the International Atomic Energy Agency in X^cnna, Austria. His wife and two daughters sailed with him from New York on August 14. 
• M Harry L. Buch 600 Board of Trade BIdg. Wheeling, W.Va. 

From the Alumni Office: GERRV BURLAGE, asst. prof in the dcpt. of communication arts, is directing and producing a series of TV programs on the subject of Communism. The half-hour telecasts u-ill be taped and offered by educational stations either as a credit course with discussions and readings or a noncrcdit general education course. Capt. BILL DELANEY, deput\- chief of require­ments and distribution branch for hdqrs., u-as se­lected outstanding company grade officer of the year for Hdqrs., San Antonio Air Material Area at Kelly AFB, Texas. MIKE GERAGHTY has joined the faculty of Iowa U. as an asst. mathematics prof. HAYES KENNEDY'S father was honored by some 400 guests from Illinois and surrounding states at an American Legion testimonial dinner In recogni­tion of his -work with the Legion Box*s' State pro­gram. DAN KENNEDY '5t and Dr. JI.M KEN­NEDY. *57 also attended the banquet with Hayes and the rest of the family. BOB GORDON has been appointed a special rep for the national account sales section of the Do­mestic sales dcpt. at Caterpillar Tractor Co., Peoria, 111. ED D*ARCY has been named a sales engineer for the US G^iisum Co. and will be selling Ther­malux,' the new electric heating s\'stcm that is actu­ally part of the ceiling, and prondes radiant heat Just like the sun. JIM MUT5CHELLER has earned membership in the 1964 President's Club of the National Life Ins. Co. of Vermont. Jim has been a member of the President's Club every year since 1959. He also holds annual National Quality Awards lor excellence of service to cJients. The Northern Trust Co., Chicago, has announced 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
WALTER A. MOORE '52 In Indiana, He*s Number One! 

Sharin g in Irish "numero-uno-mania" this year is a stocky South Bender whose personal claim to primacy is fully justified. For genial, sandy-haired Wally Moore, an authentic Irishman, "number one" means the mythical high school football champion­ship of Indiana, to which his St. Joseph's 
the appointment of ED ORR as a second v-p. in the trust dept. Ed is a member of the ND Club of Chicago and the Wharton MBA Club of Chicago. 
DR. BOB SHAVER MS '52 will direct product planning and target team activ*ities for the expan­sion program for Dow Bioproducts animal health business. 
>E^ David A, McEIv^ 2328 Alexander Terrace Homewood. HI. 

Your correspondent has been delinquent over the past several issues, and it is hoped that this dis­sertation will restore faith in your scribe, and gen­erate some more mail. 
JOHN LEONARD is in the service of the US Slate Department, and at last report was on a touchy assignment at our cmbass>- in Tel A\iv. DICK PETRARG\, practicing la\\- in Chicago Heights, HI., was selected "Boss of the Year" by the Sauk Trail chapter of tlie National Secretaries Association. Dick also ser\-cd as assistant state's attornc>- from 1957 to 1960. Dr. JACK SWART is on tlie facult>' of the U, of Maryland, teaching courses to Air Force personnel in tlie Far East. WALT WOLFF lives in Los Alamos, has five chil­dren, and is a field test engineer with the Los Alamos Scientific Lab. 
JOE SH-ANNON is an attorney in Indianapolis and also raises cliildrcn, currently 6ve. JOHN ^VATERBURY is a textile engineer ^viih Blooms-burg Mills in New York City. ANGELO TURCO %v-as recently transferred to Los Angeles, is a medical service rep. with J. B. Roerig & Co. MARTY WEHNER lives with his family of three children in Hinsdale, 111., and is a sales engineer with Westing­house. TOM YOUNG is the IBM resident data processing salesman in Bradford, Pa. JOE VAN DEVERE is the father of five, and is engaged "where the action is" selling Oldsmobiles. (Joe, let us know where you're located so we can get our next car at dealer's cost!) 
DICK WAGNER is practicing law in Buffalo. WOODY WERNER is a grain broker mth Bacbe & Co. in Chicago, lives in Northbrook and com­mutes mth BOB BERNER and DON BERGMAN. 
Indians were voted unanimously by the state's press ser\'ices. St. Joe and Coach of the Year Moore arc doubly honored, fo4 in no previous year was a Catholic high school even placed in football's "top ten" by Indiana AP and UPI (this year there arc three). 
For Wally, the '52 Class designation is purely arbitrary. After getting his B.S. de­gree in American history from St Joseph's College, Rensselaer, Ind., he attended grad school at ND in 1950-51 and expects to complete his work toward an M.A. at Indiana UmVersity next summer. 
In the past several years at South Bcncfl St Joe, Wally has coached nearly every sport. As head football coach his current specialties include teaching American his­tory and coaching track and weight lifting. His dazzling 1964 football season began with a thorough shellacking of Elkhart High, 1963 state champs, and continued with the utter himiiliation of South Bend Central and other traditional leaders, an unde­feated record marred only by a tough-break, last-minute tie with South Bend-Washington High, which wound up th ^ season sharing Northern Indiana Conference honors with South Bend Riley. This local monopoly, combined with Notre Dame's near national championship, had Sout h Benders referring to their town as "City of Champions." 
Wally is a prep product of the old South Bend Central Catholic under the Holy Cross Brothers, who also run St. Joe. In 1949 he married Margaret Clements of South Bend. They have five children, Moni­ca, Ramona, Robin, Terry and Tony. 
JOHN VUONO is a partner in a law firm in PitU­burgh. JOHN WILCZYNSKI Is an electronics en­gineer with General Electric, lives in Latham, N.Y. BOB WAGNER is manager of control product en­gineering with Magnetics, Inc. and has four growing cliildren in Butler, Pa. PAUL ZALECKI is an at-tome>- with Kaiser Jeep in Toledo. Major BOB WHALEN (USMC) is a company commander with a Royal Marine Commando outfit in England, and will shortly be transferred to Quantico for addi­tional military* schooling. 
JOHN LUCY was recently promoted from Cin­cinnati to the IBM regional office in Chicago, where he is programming s>-stems representative for the Midwestern area. LARRY TARPEY is associat^ professor of Commerce at the U. of Kentucky alB Lexington, received Jiis MBA at Indiana U. and h'ts PhD from Cornell, and spent the summer at Duke on a Ford Foundation research seminar. The aston­ishing thing is that L^rr>- managed to get all that studying done with five children around the house! I can hardly get the paper read with only three. BILL SOMMER is an engineering manager for RCA in Camden, and he recently built his ou*n home in Moorestou-n, X.J., to house his family of four bo>-s. 
Received a letter from JOHN MacINNES, which I wish coidd be reprinted in total. John is a lay mission helper in the Uganda missions in East Africa, located at the Butitt Catholic Parish, P.O. Butiti, Uganda, East Africa. John, t%vo priests, and a brother are first concentrating on leamin^p the language — Rutooro. He asked for our prayers to help him in accepting his vocation. 
That's all I know. Now that my scliedulc is somewhat more sane and organized again, I will attempt to be a more dependable column con­tributor. Let me hear from you. 
From the Alumni Office: HAROLD AflLLER is sales mgr. for Frigorifico Wilson do Brazil is Sao Paulo, Brazil. DR. BOB STEJSKAL has moved to Phoenix, Ariz., and entered private practice in radiology. He will be located at St. Joseph's Hospital. HOWARD SCRIBNER was appointed v-p of Chase Manhattan. Bank and is in charge of per­
sonal trusts and estates in the trust and estate investment dtv. 
Good luck to Atty. JOHN O'CONNELL in his 
A|ampai*gn for the 20th Congressional District in 
^"exas, decided by thb time. ED DUGGAN, business counsellor with ofEccs in New-ark, N.J., has written a two-part scries on the public offering of stocks appearing in the New Jersey Business magazine. An attorney from Newark was co-author ^rith Ed. We hope BRIAN KELLY doesn*t have too much trouble playing second fiddle to a dolphin named "Flipper" in his newest TV scries. Jokingly dubbed "Rin Tin Tuna," it is a ver>* professional show in the wholesome "Lassie" tradition. The news of Fr. BLAISE HETTICH OSB in the Aug.-Sept. issue of the ALUMNUS brought thi­following from Fr. Hcltlch: "During the past few 
M&-cars, I gave only one talk to a women's literar>' 
Usroup, the Ntadelevca Litcrar>' Club of Jasper, Ind. It u*as the most insignificant speaking engagement of the past ten years. If you want to know what keeps me busy, I am: professor of English and speech in St. ^fcin^ad College, and chairman of the division of languages and literature; associate editor of Marriage magazine and editorial consultant for Abbey Press Publications; I have given fifty-some retreats in the past ten years, to niarried couples, religious brothers, sisters, high-school and college students; also innumerable Cana conferences to married couples, days of recollection for xnrious groups, and talks to PTA, KC, NCCW, and parish organizations. I have given vcr>' few talks to Eng­lish teachers and other academic groups." 
^ Mr. and Mrs. GERRY HANLMES have given a new infirmary building to Marmion Militar>' .Acad­emy In Aurora, III. 
GER.ARD voi r has been promoted to district plant superintendent for the south Philadelphia area of the Bell Telephone Co. of PcnnsyK'ania. 
DR. DAVE HENTGES has accepted a position at Creighton U. as asst. prof of mlcrobiolog\'. 
Tliis fall DAVE HAYES had an exhibition of forged steel sculpture, bronzes and drawings at the Willard Gallery in New York. 
DR. HUNG HAN YANG MS'53 has been trans­ferred by DuPont from Beaumont, Tex., to Buf­falo, N.Y. Dr. Yang, his wife, and four-ycar-oId son stopped in at XD on the way East. 
Milton J. Bcaudine 
'54 11 Kimberlin Lane BdleviUe, HI. 

Sure hope you had a nice turkey! And may you have a wonderful, holy and merry Christmas and a prosperous 1965. These articles are usually written way In advance of publication; as a matter of fact, as of this moment Vm looking fonvard (o the big weekend coming up — the ND-P«rdue game and our reunion party. I'm sorr>- that the deadline comes before the reunion party so I'll have nothing to report on this time. Tm happy to say that the June reunion hangover is gone finally although I doubt if GERRY FINNEY (how's that? two men­tions in a rowl), JI.M BERNHART or DICK TIERNEY can say the same. 
Now for some facts. ^fANNY SEQUEIRA and 
•bis wife Angeic report the birth of their fourth 
"on , Robert Charles, on .Aug. 25, 1964. Also, on June 16, 1964, Tonic and CHRIS MALONE were blessed with Timothy Jcrard. Tliat makes 5 boys and a girl for Chris and Tonic. The only (yes, only) other mail I've received since June was a real tearjerkcr from JACK NASHERT. Jack started to the reunion on Friday, June 12 at noon flying by himself in his trusty Cessna. Thun­derstorms forced him down at Joplin, Mo., where he spent a frustrating weekend waiting for the rains to stop — and they did, just in time for him to fly back home to Oklahoma City. Sice tr>'. Jack. Sec you in '69. Jack was going to pick up BOB HOWARD for the trip to ND only Bob had the measles. How about that? JIM DASCH­
^AC H is also living in Oklahoma City working 
Po r his doctorate in industrial management. Finally, JACK NASHERT reports that he has two boys and two giris, and that his business •— construction 
— is booming. 
From the bachelor set (hey girls, here's your chance) comes the following: LOU HAEFELE, 803 
W. End Blvd., Winston-Salem, N.C., received his PhD at the U. of Illinois in 1958 and Is now a research chemist with Reynolds Tobacco Co. JIM KUEHN is a high school teacher, living at 317 
S. Washington Ave., Vlrqua, Wis. TOM FIELD Is living at 3009 Cambridge PI., N.W., Washington. D.C., and is an attorney with the tax dept. (rat fink). DICK COLLOTON, 542 6th S.E., Mason City, la., is teaching there, DAN B.4DURA owns and operates his own ranch and lives in Belfr\-, 
REGIS F. X. PHILBIN '53 After Steve Allen, a Bright New Star 

A few months ago when Dick Connelly '55, manager of press relations for the Wes­tinghouse Group W Network, told us about a new national television personality named Regis Francis Xavier Philbin, we could be excused for tiiinking we were getting our leg gently pulled. But within a few weeks "That Regis Philbin Show" had replaced "The Steve Allen Show" on Westinghouse stations in San Francisco, Boston, Cleveland, Pittsburgh and Baltimore (plus several others in syndication) and the late-night variety-entertainment show, originating in Hollywood, was getting invidious comment from Johnny Carson and Les Crane, Regis' competition on NBC and ABC respectively. 
Regis, who insists on retaining his own name (even though it results in such spoonerisms as "Phyllis Reagan"), is a native New Yorker and came to Notre Dame from Cardinal Hayes High School in the Bronx. His uncle was Arthur God­frey's publicity man at CBS, and even as a boy Regis dreamed of a career in show 
.Mont. 39008. DICK FOLEY, 239 Rollins Ave., Rockville, Md., is an MD and a pathology resi­dent at the Naval ^[cdical School in Bethesda, Md. JIM REYNIERS is teaching and living at 72 Ladoga Ave., Tampa, Fla. ED.MUND MC­CARTHY, 1+ N. Chatsworth Ave., Larchmont, N.Y., in NYC ivith Edward-Duirell-Stonc. BOB NANOVIC has earned his MBA with the General Tire &. Rubber Co. and lives at 209 E. 52nd St., NYC. CLETE LEE is a traveling auditor. Motel Di%'ision, Pick Hotels Corp., and can be reached c/o Pick Hotels Corp., 20 N. Wacker Dr., Chi­cago 6, III. DR. LOU ^MFFEI, 38 Walnut St., Summit, N.J., is in private practice there (internal medicine). Lou would like to hear from olc buddies JOE LEONETTI, RICH GOBBI, DAVE KEFFLER and TOM MORRIS. KEVIN DOYLE has his LLB and his own law firm and can be reached at 36 Crosby Rd., Newton, Mass. He would like to hear from JOE FALK. DICK MARTIN of 736 Omandalc Dr., Nashville, Tenn., is with the In­surance Co. of North America as a claims adjuster. PAUL McKEE, Box 161, Ramsey, III. 62080, is teaching at Ramsey Junior High while working on his MA at Western III. U. Well that's just a 
business. After graduation with an AB in sociology, he was conunissioned an ensign in the Navy and saw service in the Pacific before his discharge as a lieutenant (jg) in San Diego. Heartened by a Marine major's prediction of future stardom, he landed a job as a page at the NBC studios in New York. 
One of Regis' jobs at NBC was ushering for the "Tonight" show, then hosted by Steve Allen. When a job offer came from TV station KCOP in Hollywood, he visited a gypsy fortime teller in a tearoom near the studio on a lark. When the gypsy pre­dicted a long trip leading to eventual suc­cess, he packed up for Hollywood and started for KCOP as a part-time stage hand and truck driver. In three years he worked with commentator Tom Duggan and other on-the-air personalities and final­ly got a chance to fill in when Duggan was taken ill. 
Married (wife Catherine) and with a child (Amy, now 6), Regis got a job as a radio newsman for station KSON in San Diego. Soon he had sold a late-night variety show to KOGO-TV (in place of another late movie), hosted, produced, writ­ten and cast by himself. His combination of talk, music, comedy and guest stars (like Jerry Lewis and Liberace) soon made the show the most popular in San Diego and got him raves from Walter Winchell and 
Variety. 
One night Jerry Lewis challenged Regis to become a national personality, and Wes­tinghouse apparently agreed. After tryouts as "guest host" on "The Mike Douglas Show" and "The Steve Allen Show" (with Phyllis Diller), he was offered his own show on the network with music by the Terr)' Gibbs Sextet, proclaimed by Down­beat and Metronome as the best new jazz group in the business. 
Regis has kept the same relaxed format (a week-long guest celebrity, several guest star spots, interviews and musical breaks) and the same off-beat conversational tech­nique (he avoids any contact with guests before the show and usually discovers some hidden or unknown facet of a personality), but his chief asset seems to be his own boyish looks and Irish charm. Like Jerry Dodge '58 in Broadivay's "Hello, Dolly," Tony Bill '63 in Hollywood comedies, and classmate Brian Kelly in television's "Flip­per" scries, it looks as if a new star is bom. 
small list of eligible *MVrs who haven't yet seen the light. 
Had a short note from Capt. CHARLIE SPICKA saying he was going up to ND for the Purdue game and party. I'm heading up early Friday hoping to get in 18 holes of golf before meeting Jane and BOB \^i'RIGin', Mary Lou and BILL BURKE and Madeline and DICK CASTELLINI from Cincinnati for dinner. I'm bringing up my magic clubs (it you don^t believ*e me, ask DON ZECH), and again all the thanks for the party have to go to our hard working class president, DICK PILGER. Incidentally, Dick has left ND and is now teaching across the road at St. Mary's (don't know how his wife permits it) where apparently ''excellence" in teaching is more important for a teacher than research (as it should be). Thanks, Dick! 
Via the questionnaires: GREG SULLIVAN, 303 Heights Rd., Ridgewood, N.J., and wife Patricia have seven children; at last coimt, four girls and three boys. Greg is with Alexander & Alexander in NYC (insurance adjusters). Greg would like to hear from JACK SULLIVAN and JOHN M c GRAW. JOHN J. CONNORS DOS is an oral 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 51 
surgeon and liWng at Thomycraft Apt. 4C, Scars-dale, N.Y. John is married and has four children. John would liltc lo bear Irom JOHN McGRAW, GREG SULLI\'AN and GEORGE DOLAK. JOHN 
T. GIAMBRUNO, Capt. USA, is presently assigned as a construction advisor to the Republic of Korea Army. John's married and has one boy and one girl. Write to John at Engr. Sect. K.M.-\G. APO 102, San Francisco, Cal. 96302. Also in the service is Capt. TOM HAMLIN, USMC Quarters M-1, Xaval Station, Key West, Fla. He and his wife Elizabeth have six cltildren. Then there is another bachelor, Capt. AL SUWALSKV, JR., US.MC, Marine Sub-Section Box 193, Naral Section MA.-VG, APO 90, San Francisco- Al is an advisor to the Marine Corps of the Republic of China. He would, among others, like to hear from PAT LALLY and FRAN MEANEY. 
It strikes me that this article is rather dull. For dullness, questionnaires are near the top of the list. Hou- about a real live letter in 1965? It'll take less time than you think — wives* letters also grate­fully accepted. Well, again—Merry Christmas and a Happy Ncu* Year and (to be sure) a Happy St. Patrick's Day. 
Write — write — write! 

From President DICK PILGER: The Fall Reunion was a srcal success, especially since it followed a \TCTORY (at last!). We will meet again next year after the first home game 
— N.D. vs. Nortlmestem, Oct. 2, 1965. Tlie fol­lovxing is the sign-in list for this year, to the best of mv abiliiv at reading crvptic signatures: CHARLIE ALLEN, DICK ASH, \nL T BEAU­DINE, DON BEDEL, JIM BERNHART, JOHN BIERBUSSE. ED BROWN, BILL BURKE, FR. DA\ ^ BURRELL CSC. DICK CASTELLINI, BILL CIVANAGH. BILL DALY. JOHN DAR­AGO, JERRY DIXON, WALT DUSCHKA, DICK EHR, BOB FARNBAUCH, DA\ ^ FOY, NED GRIFFIN, GENE HE.VRY, JIM HERENDEEN, GENE HOWLEY, FR. BILL HUND CSC, BOB INEICH, JOE JOYCE, PAUL KELLEY, JOHN KELSCH, MARSHALL KIN*NEY, PAUL KRAUS, HERM KRIEGSHAUSER, MIKE LAUGHLIN, DICK MARTIN, JOE McGINN, LEO MICHUDA, BILL MORLEY, ED MRAZ. D.AN MUNSON, TOM MURPHY. FR. JOE NASH OP. PAT O'MALLEY, DICK PILGER, BOB PODEN, FRED POEHLER, JOHN POIRIER, BILL REYNOLDS, JACK ROSSHIRT, JOHN SCHLOEGEL, CHAR­LIE SPICKA, STE\ ^ STECKBECK, WALT WAGNER, CHARLIE ^VEITZEL, LEN AVELCH and BOB WRIGHT. 
The.untraceable were.sucli signatures as Thomas Aylward, J. Larty, Clem Mavricke and Ted Zim­mcr. T7ic only Thomas Ayh*'ard wc could find started at ND in '76. (Tliat's the spirit!) 
Many ilisjiks to CE.NE HENRY tor his help with the arrangements and to FR. JOHN W.MJSH CSC, who came representing the University. 
From tlic Alumni Office: JOE HUEBNER received his master's in (ibran'an­ship from Western Michigan U. in Julv. Capt. TOM HAMLIN USMC is living In Ft. Benning, Ga., and attending the .Army's infantrv' officer career course. RAY G.\LVIN, asst. prof in the school of police administration at Michigan State U., has helped set up a code of conduct for the Cook County (IH.) shcrilTs police force. Tlie cliitf of the sherifTs police described the new* code as the "most com­plete set of rules ever developed for a police de­partment in the United States." 
REV. FRANCIS ZAGORC CSC wrote a very interesting article about the people of Uganda for the July-August issue of Medical MIssionarv- mag­arine. 
DAVE FOY, district sales supervisor for Norton Co., has changed to an alternate territorj* within the Indianapolis area. 
PAUL ROHMAN has been appointed mgr. of the nevvly opened financial sales office in Chicago of the Ford ^fotor Credit Co, 
Dr. GEORGE HEW50N has announced the open­ing of his office for the practice of orthopedic surgery in Short Hills, N.J. 
ROMAN GERBER has been made an associate chief counsel to the comptroller of the currency for the US Trcasurj' Dept. 
This past summer Dr. JiM FREMGEN, at the K D Stmimer Insutute, taught the religious how to keep track of the money they spend. 
In a letter wTittcn in September before the Wis­consin game MILT BEAUDINE wTote saving he was an eternal optimist and picked ND to win 8-2 this year. 
After receiving his master's and PhD degrees 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
here. Dr. SAUL WISCHNITZER continued his studies at the U. of Basel in Switzerland, taught at the NY ^Medical College, tlie Hadassah Medical School in Jerusalem and ND, and was recently ap­pointed assoc prof of biology and asst. to the dean of Yeshiva College in New York. 
Come ALIVE In '65! 

Class of '55 Anniversary 10 REUNION—June 1M2-13 
•CC Paul FuUmcr 
7344 N. Ridge Blvd. I Chicago, HI. 

First of all, a grcnt bjg vote ot thanks lo all those who turned out for the cocktail party after the Purdue game. It was a real swinging party and some real *'lost souls" popped back after many years. Several other Notre Damers around here leant to know hoii* our reunion each ycnr is so successful. It's simple—no organization! Wc just book the room a year in advance, call in all off-duty bartenders, and have a ball. See you there again next year after the first home game, .And don't forget that BIG class reunion on campus June 11-13. 
Let's see now. I think we'll start with the re­union and give Detroit the award for having the best representation. (I've disqualified Chicago be­cause wc can just roll down the toll road in two hours.) Leading the charge was big ROY BEL^ KNAP, that old Commerce senator. Ver\* big in slocks and bonds now, I didn't have time to see if he still carries those extra long "seegars." 
JIM STEVENS is in the real estate and insur­ance business in the Motor City. He looked pros­perous and explained it by saying: "Houses arc selling almost as well as Detroit's wonderful new cars!" BOB BREZENSKI, who lives at 19036 Huntington in suburban Harper ^Voods, is helping put out some of those cars at Chrvsler. BERNIE McCLOREY, my next door neighbor in Badin, politely informed me that the last issue was wrong when it referred to me as the baby of the class. "Tlic Ogre" pointed out that he is four months younger, Bernie, who has been vvorking at Ford with his engineering background, has completed law school at night and plans to put that degree to work in the near future. Keep me posted, Babv! BOB McCARREN, one of General Motors' best, now has three kids. He lives at 18919 Mallina, Detroit. 
JIM BROUGHTON, the relaxed bachelor for I 
these many years, finally went the way of all gooi 
men. Jim married Donna Kurtz last April 25 
Tliey now reside at U928 (Boy, these Detroiters gj 
in for a lot of numbers. Tliey must love the zi| 
code.') .Arciidale Rd. Jim's with the United Motor 
Service Division of GS L 
Even the recent marriage of his long-time buddy 
BILL REALE, hasn't cracked Ohio's fighting dis 
trict attorney, BILL McL.-\lN. Bill and HUGF 
SCHAEFER, who has managed to fight ofT the gal; 
in Tulsa to this point, talked over a few Icga 
points. Hugh is assistant US attorney In Tulsa 
Three of my old journalism classmates bouncec back for the reunion—all with a little less hair TOM WELLY, 2(M3 Mt. Vernon in Toledo, still i; communicating for Owens-Coming Fiberglass. DAVE METZ is handling financial public relations foi Kodak from the Rochester headquarters. JOH!|| GANNA is marketing manager for Alkco Manufac­turing Co. He lives In Des Plaincs (1370 Hardine .Ave.), northwest of Chicago. 
ROLLY HART made it in from West Virginia (302 N. 8ih St., Princeton). He has two boys and is with Travelers Insurance. One of the big hits of the party was MAURY CICCIARELLI, who looked like he was running for office. I think he shook everj'one's hand in the place. Maury Is a plumbing and heating contractor In Peoria, III. (59M Roxbury Lane). Another Land of Lincoln resident on tap was DICK SCHEIBELHUT, who is with Cook Electric Co. Dick lives at 5603 Capri Lane, Morton Grove, III. 
There also was a trio from northern Indiana, DICK GAUTHIER, the smiling Irishman, was o4 hand as usual. Tlie father of five, Dick is one of the main cogs in the Bank of Lansing (111.). JIM CAHILL, controller for White Advertising Co. in Chicago, was one of the first to come through the door. He lives at 444 Lake St., Crown Point, Ind. RUDY GENDER (1781 Sloan Rd., Portage, Jnd.) is vriih US StecJ. 
One of the most active guys in the room was GEORGE SHELTON, who was beating the drums for the June reunion. Make plans now to be there. DICK BURKE, the unsmiling Irishman who will lead our c}ass back to the banks of the St. Joseph, abo was taking reservations. He is a father for the second time. 
TOM CAREY, another of our illustrious class officers, is now JIM EHRET's brother-in-law. Jim married Tom's sister, Honey, in one of the big society weddings of the season just one week aftcg the reunion. I saw the lanky frame of ROlP MOTTL going up the stadium steps three at a time. Another athlete from the class came to down a little ciiccr. JIM WALSH, who battled his way to the hcav^-wclght championship In the Bengal Bouts, was right in the middle of things. 
ED BREMER '54 (left) and Fred Wallncr *51 bavc an unusual alumni coUaborarion. Ed, an cngmccring supervisor at Hanulton Standard division of United Aircraft, owns the Hartford (Conn.) Charter Oaks of the Adande Coast Profcssiona] Foot­ball League with his father and brothers, while Fred coaches the Charter Oaks and John Gcraghty '64 (not shown) plays for the Oaks while attending Fordhani Law School. The picture was sent by Roy Wendell '50, Hamilton Standard public relations director, who also pointed to Bob Meulman as chief electronics engineer and Ed Marshall as head of the space and life systems department. 
I hate to admit it but some of the girls thought 
JIM HESBURGH has been eating too many mashed 
tatocs. Tlicy arc going to send him some *'slcn­
rclla" kits. (Even his best friends won't tell 
Im!) TOM ARMSTRONG, who has cornered 
the southern textile market in Spartanburg, S.C., 
spread the good word to one and all. Tom bent 
JIM GRIFFIN'S car for quite a while, but "Griff" 
got free for a moment to tell mc that JOE DALEY 
now is chief enforcement officer for the Security 
Exchange Commission in New York. Jim also 
passed along the word that ED "OX" FOX 
is the father of a bouncing baby girl. 
Also in from Peoria was TOM CASSIDY, who 
is the leading legal eagle in them thar parts. He 
couldn't believe that his old cohort in crime, R-VY 
KENNEDY, has scaled the heights in New York 
and is now music editor for Time Magazine. I V^n vouch for this, though, because Ray dropped mc a note to say that he spenL several months commuting between Boston (four children & one wife) and the Big Town. Ray authored the cover pieces on the Cleveland Symphony and Barbra Streisand, and I guess these sparkling pieces opened the door. But Ray, Music Editor?????? 
The reunion wouldn't have been a success without 
the appearance of T. GAVIN KING, who swung in 
from Tulsa, where he is a counselor at law In the 
Petroleum Building. Gavin was 5orr>- that STEVE 
SURBROOK couldn't make it in from Detroit, but 
I'm sure Steve is making plans for next June 
11-13 right now. 
Let's take a fast whirl around the Windy Citv mng . JERRY BRANSFIELD is the only guy in U c class with enough internal fortitude (guts) to 
come down without tickets, find jtist one, tell his 
wife to find somclhing to amuse herself for 2J/^ 
hours, and then waltz into the stadium to enjoy 
the carnage as the Fighting Irish trounced Purdue 
—a most beautiful sight. It almost looked like 
1953-54! STEVE REBORA, the old reliable with 
the art brushes, was the master behind the sign 
that rallied the troops to the watering hole. Thanks, 
Stevarino! JOFF FLYNN, who makes only right 
turns during the political campaign, was delighted 
that Rep. BILL MILLER '35 Avas on campus for 
the game. NE.AL H.ALLORAX looked pretty happy 
for a guy who just joined the ranks of the mort­
^ged. He and Babs just bought a house at 7183 
N. Mankato in Chicago. JERRY PRASS^VS, Chi­cage's gayest bachelor, was telling cver>"onc that the bags under his eyes Avere from office work. Come ^w , Jerr>-! At least JOHN WEITHERS, Jcrr>*5 
'wily real competition among Chicago's jet set, admits that his ulcer was developed eating rich food at cocktail parties and not worrying about the stock market. TOM GALLIGAN is pulling up stakes in Chicago and mo\"ing to Fort Wayne, wlicre he will join tlie legal staff of Magnavox. MIKE WARD has just been appointed assistant to the president of the American Security Council here In Chicago. 
f
I received a nice letter from JOHN CORBETT 0'ME.ARA, explaining why he and Penny couldn't make it. The Naval Rescr\c had Corbett booked for the Weekend. Enclosed In the letter was the announcement of the birth of a son, John. DICK CONNELLY also wrote to say that he might not ake the game, but that he would try to drag his d roomie, JOHN LOCHTEFELD, in next June. ick rcccntiy joined the Westlnghouse Broadcasting Company; John is an art prof at Kuistown State Teachers College in Wilkes Barre, Pa. Dick also hopes to bring along BRIAN GAFFNEY, now an 
attoniey in his native New Britain, Conn. 
DON MATTHEWS was another who wrote that he couldn't make the Purdue game, but that he would definitely try to be on deck In June. (That wasn't meant to be a pun, Don, you old salt.) JOE MADIGAN, who knows more about sports than any other living (?) soul, had to usher at a wed­ding Oct. 3, but I'll bet he'll be on hand next June, too. In fact, he assures mc that he h bring­ing along a "mob and keep evcr>body up all night." kTh c long distance letter award goes to FR. JOHN 
EEFE, who can be reached at Nsenyt Parish, P.O. Box 28, Kasesc, Busongora, Uganda. "Thanks for the kind invitation to the reunion party following the Purdue game. We feel flattered that birds like us arc even remembered. By being included on your mailing list we feel 100% belter. I hope it's a real wing-dlnger (it was!) and somebody have one for mc. I'll tr>' to remember the date and Iiavc a good slug of local banana brew. Best wishes for a happy time. Regards to all, and may God bless and keep you all." 
FR. JOE O'DONNELL also came through with a letter this time. He wants to thank MIKE KELLY for the impromptu party Mike hosted last summer. I also want to thank Mike for selling a zillion tickets for the Chicago Club's Oktoberfest 
COMDR. HENRY H. CARTER USNR, better known at ND as a modem languages prof, recently served his last summer hitch on the staff of the Conmiandant, Ninth Naval District, before Navy retirement next year. A 22-year sailor, Prof. Car­ter taught at the Naval Academy before joining the faculty in 1956. 
pre-season party. Mike is an organizer of the fiist caliber. Before I get too far off base. Father Joe reports that he still is giving parish missions, as well as high school and college retreats. Already he is balancing his schedule so that he can be at the reunion weekend. Why don't you do the same. 
I missed reporting on another Motor City man up front, RON MAKOWSKI, who is an engineer with Chevrolet. Ron, wife, and three children live at 561 Burtman Drive, Troy, Mich. T7ie law fra­ternity was well represented. DICK DONAHUE (944 Roclielle Dr., Lafayette, Ind.) is the proud papa of a little girl. ED VOGT, who has three little gals, totes his law books home to 932 S. Myrtle Ave., Kankakee, III. 
Consulting engineering seems to be a good trade, too. DICK GRONER in Jefferson City, Mo. (421 Lark St.) and ED PREIN in Grand Rapids, Mich. (4991 Bluff Dr., N.E.) swapped a few trade secrets. 
DICK BLACK (Black & Yount, Inc.), who lives at 336 Franklin Ave., Klttannlng, Pa., reports that he now has three children. PETE RITTENHOUSE lives in nearby Mishawaka (550 W. 6th St.). He's with E. F. Houghton & Co. Pete and bride now have four toddlers. 
JOHN MANIX, who is with Motorola, hangs his hat at I9I7 Redleaf Dr., Louisville. According to JIM YONKE, GERRY SHE.VHAN just recovered from a serious illness. Glad to hear that you're back on the track, Gerry. He's regional ofHce sales manager for Enc>-cIopedia Brlttanlca. 
Before I forget it, I ran into my old freshman roommate during an Eastern x-acatlon. We had din­ner with HAL A.MRHEIN, the life of Zahm Hall, In a delightful Boston restaurant. Hal spent three years teaching in Africa, but he lost cver^-thing when his house burned down a year ago. Now he's teaching biology in a Boston high school. All of Hal's friends, including guys like DON C/WETT, should drag out the typewriter and get in touch with him at 98 Strathmorc Rd., Brighton, Mass. Another roommate of mine, TOM DORWIN, made the news with his first son, Patrick Thomas. 
ELLIOT "ROCK" LESE checked in via letter. He*s branch manager for the Hempstead Bank of Long Island. Back at night school, he's after an MBA degree from St. John's. "Rock" and Dolores babysit at 2951 Ewell PI., Wantagh, N.Y. HARVEY MUELLER visited them earlier in the year. He is a sales executive In Boston. "Rock" also keeps In touch tvith HAL WILLENBORG, whose cuirent ad­dress is Officer in Charge, U. S. Naval Commissary Store, Naval Station, Newport, RJ . He hopes to hear from DICK BOLAND, JACK PEISKER, and DON McKENZIE. 
BUD LoLONDE reported in from the Unjvenity of Colorado where he is an associate professor of marketing. Bud recently welcomed his third child and first son. I'm sure that he U'os the life of the party after the ^ r Force game. 
ART SULLIVAN now is regional group manager for Minnesota Mutual Life Insurance Co. in Atlanta. He has been with the company since turning In his Air Force blues in '58. Art says that he now has four "rcbcb" at 2958 Braithwood Ct. ^Vhile travel­ing from his former base in Dallas, Art ran into the following: ED JANSSEN, who is operating a spirits dispensing store in St. Paul between hunt­ing and fishing; BOB BENSON, who lives in Texas where he sells ladies' wear; BOB MALLON, who has a verv successful Ford agency in Tacoma; BUTCH VALLACE, who was with the Chemical National Bank on Long Island at last call; and JIM WILSON, who is a supervisor with Minne­sota Mutual In Miami. 
JOE CONNOLLY welcomed daughter Pat in May- HUGH BOYLE and the former Claire Reilly walked up the aisle in Connecticut earlier this year. JOHN RYAN has set up practice at 135 S. Kenll­wortb, Elmhurst, 111. We're really not that old. FRANK VARRICHIONE was elected offensive cap­tain of the L. A. Rams in pre-season practice. 
^VILL SCHAEFER, now regional sales manager for The Interior Steel Equipment Co., dropped me a line back in October. He's got a new address— 2192 Woodward Ave., Lakcwood, Ohio. 
A letter from India arrived this summer and proved to be quite interesting. The son of PAUL HAUHNAR wrote from Assam, India. Since the boy is interested in becoming a priest, I put him in contact with my younger brother, who is in the seminar\'. Now, Paul, It's your turn to tvrite and bring us up to date. 
FRANK M.A1ER couldn't make it in for the reunion party because he u-as hot on the political trail. As political writer for the Rockford (HI.) papers, he attended both conventions and traveled extensively with both candidates. 
It's good to see guys like DICK GRONER, LEE CREAM, TOM MICKEY, CHUCK DOHERTY. DICK FEELEY, TOM IGLE5KI, BILL TICE, FRED DEL.ANEY, JIM YONKE, JOE KEARNEY. FRANK MCCARTHY, and JOHN HARTIGAN again. I hope to gel more time to sit down with each in June. 
I guess I had better bring you up to date on some globe-trotting classmates, DICK REAMER, who I think has forsaken Indiana forever, now gets his postcards at Pension Cosmopolite, .Alscrstrasse 23, Vienna Vin/65, Austria. DICK CALL.AH.-%N moved from Virginia to 30 Cowdigan Rd., Toronto. ED BORUS left Detroit for Ford's operation in Port Elizabeth, South Africa. 
I Want to apologize to tliose 1 missed at the re­union. A simple way to remedy the situation is to sit right down and write. If you're loo busy (or too lazy!) give the pen to your bride. DoQ*t iorget, I need news notes to fill this column each time-Make plans now to whoop it up with all the '53ers June 11-13. 
From the Alumni OfKce: 
ED BORUS is now mgr. of the treasury dcpt. of Ford Motor Co., in Port Elizabeth. South Africa. REV. ROBERT AUSTGEN CSC Is the new 
rector for Stanford Hall at ND. 
JIM CLARK has been promoted to account super­visor for Marsleller, Inc. in their Chicago office. Jim and Maureen with their four girls and one boy have moved to Prospect Hts., III., 1716 Woodview Dr. 
TOM POWERS has joined the ph>-sical education staff of Loyola Academy, Wilmette, HI., and will also serve as an asst. football coach. 
The foltou'ing was enclosed with a contribution to Challenge H: "Oct. 5, 19&1—Sirs: I was a student at Notre Dame before I w-as paralyzed in an auto accident In 1951. After the accident, the University and her friends were very generous in helping me through my initial difficulties. 
''Through the sponsorship of a Vocational Re­habilitation Program, I have just recently begun , to support myself. 
"Now I wish to start repaying Notre Dame for all she has given me^ as a student and after.** It was signed: "JAMES AOKI, 305 18th St. N.W., Minot, N. Dak. 58702." 
FRANK REIDY has been appointed asst. comp­troller of St. Joseph Lead Co. in New York. GEORGE KOCH has been named to the newly created position of acct. mgr. for Vickeis Inc. PAUL SfANSFIELD received his master of science from the State U. of New York at .Mbany last June. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, t964 
ND received $2400 from Eastman Kodak this year 
in appreciation of DAVE METZ, who works in 
their administrative hdqrs. in Rochester, N.Y. 
Capt. AL PETRANICK has completed the rigor­
ous USAF Survi\'a] and Special Training School at 
Stead AFB, Nev. and has been reassigned to a SAC 
unit at Griffis AFB, N.Y. 
FRANK DELL'APA MA *55 has been appointed 
project assoc for the Juvenile Delinquenc>' Program 
of the Western Interstate Commission for Higher 
Education. 
REV. RONAN HOFFMAN OFM LLD '55 was 
back on campus to address a national Institute on 
thcoIog>' of the mission apostolate in Augitst. 
Alvin D. Vitt 
'56 
4 Windnish Creek AV. St. Louis, Mo. 
From the .Mumni Office: 
DENNIS POWERS and JOHN MANION were 
active in the fall gubernatorial campaign in Illi­
nois. 
Capt. VIRGIL PAIVA has gone to England for duty with a unit of the USAF in Europe at Bent-waters RAF Station. Virgil, a pilot, previously served at Griffis AFB, N.Y. His new unit pro­vides the major air contribution for defense of the NATO countries. 
KAY EDWARD ALEXANDER received his master's in city planning from Har\'ard U. on June 11. 
FR. GEORGE MacINNES CSC, recently ap­pointed pastor of a new parish (Kibale Parish, 
P.O. Box 214, Fort Portal, Uganda) wthout any assistants at all, says that "there is easily enough work here for three priests and several sisters; but, at the present, they aren't available." His parish, co%'ering 23 square miles, was sparsely populated ten years ago because of dense jungle and a large river. The government put an im­proved road and neiv bridges througli the belt of jungle opening up the area. There is now a population of 24,000, more than half Catholic. 
FRANCIS FAGAN received his MS in Man­agement from the Hartford Graduate Center of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute on June 12. 
DR. JIM MASSEY, assi. prof of electrical engineering along with an ND assoc. prof, pre­sented a paper at the annual Allcrton Conference on Circuit and System Theory at the U. of Illi­nois in September. 
DON WALZ is now working in the budgets & control dept. of the Xerox Corp. in Roclicster, 
N.Y. Don is also the proud father of a son — his first child — Stephen Patrick, bom on St. Patrick's Day of this year. 
HAROLD MEYER, a pilot for an Italian air­line, married L>'z Petillo of Naples, Italy in that city on September 21, 1963. Tlicir address is P.O. Box No. 591, Torino, Italy. 
BILL WARREN, pres. of Warren American Oil Co., has been elected to the board of directors of Home Federal Savings & Loan Assn. of Tulsa, Okla. Home Federal is the largest savings and loan in Oklahoma. Bill is a member of several clubs, including the ND Club of Tulsa. 
FR.ANK CONTE has joined the Trane Com­pany's Pittsburgh, Pa., sales office as a sales engi­neer. 
GERALD ROPERS, project engineer for General Motors' Fisher Body Division's experimental & development dcpt., Warren, Mich., wrote an article in the GM Engineering Journal for the Third Quarter of 1964. 
JOE LUTEN MA'56, former math teacher in the South Bend school 5>*stem, has been promoted to prindpal of two scliools there. 
P.AUL STABLEIN MMct'56, formerly at Argonnc National Lab, has been appointed senior physicist at Midwest Research Institute. 
John P. McMed 
•57 
30 E. 42nd St. New York, N.Y. 

LARRY COOKE reports that BILL "DING DONG" BELL is currently serving his selective service obligation by being drafted into the Na­tional Institute of Health to do cancer research. Also that "JUAfPIN" JIM" CUSACK, former Irish first baseman, continues to use his mitts as an obstetrical resident out at Cook County Hos­pital in Chicago. Jim recently attained rather uide notoriety with an ima^native and exhaustive presentation of "Hydatidiform Mole" to a gath­ering of obstetridans in Chicago. I recently had the good fortune to see Jim in Madison the day 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End, 1964 
our Irish romped Wisconsin. Larry goes on to inform us that JOHN SEIDENSTICKER recently published an article in the New England JotmuJ of Medidne regarding mouth-to-mouth resuscita­tion. This has generally come to be accepted as the most effective method of rendering emergency artificial respiration. John pointed out that a well-documented case occurred approximately one cen­tury ago. The patient — Abraham Lincoln. Thanks Larr>* for the news. You certainly have been a loyal correspondent. By the way, Larry is still doctoring in Okinawa but can be reached by ad­dressing your letter to him at the Na\*al Air Fadlity, Navy No. 3867 Box D, c/o Fleet Post Office, San Francisco, Calif. . . . 
Was in Chicago for FRANK HENNESSEY'S wed­ding last July to Donna Gleason and had the good fortune to visit with GUS SHOCKWA, who is one of Chicago's outstanding accountants. Also saw H.\L BL.AKESLEE, who is now beautifully settled down and making something of himself with his pretty wife, Man'. JOE RINK and JOE FINNI­GAN along whh KEVIN GLYNN and BUZZ WURZUR made up one of the wildest w*edding parties to be seen in the "Windy City." Joe Rink laid his usual "eggs" with his 1910 jokes. All the above are in the Chicago area save Glynn, who is presently an Army captain stationed in Altus, Okla. Also seen was our good President DON 
WILSON INTERNS TEACH IN SOUTH 
Two Notre Dame men are among fifty 
young people who are teaching this year 
at 33 Southern colleges (most of them 
predominantly Negro institutions) under 
a tmique internship plan worked out be-
t^veen the colleges and the Woodrow Wil­
son National Fellowship Foundation. 
George E. Langer *59 (MS, Cornell) 
and William J. Donnelly '60 (MS, Wis­
consin) are former Wilson fellows be­
tween their master's and doctoral degrees 
who are teaching in the South to encour­
age teaching careers, the former at Tuskc­
gee Institute, Alabama, and the latter 
at S t Paul's College, Lawrenceville, 
Virginia. 
BARR, who is now the father of two, tlic latest one a boy bom in September. Up from Louisville came BOB ECKLUND who is setting a torrid pace with Johns-Mannllc. Missing from the scene and very much missed ^^-as JOHN BOVERI, who is now living in Washington, D.C. John has also taken himself a beautiful bride (from all reports) and will have dinner on the table for any dassmates who will be traveling through. Our good friend, BILL "BROWN" JONES took another Brown — Maureen by name — for his lawful wedded wife last June. Maureen is the sister of our dassmatc DICK BROWN, who is presently living in Fort Lauderdale working for 3M. A good excuse to go to Florida. Dou-n in L>*nchburg, Va., the T. O. DOYLE family keeps rolling along. T. O. and Pat no\v havo three and expecting a fourth anytime. Doyle has easily the biggest floral business going in the South and has been so successful that he is responsible for bringing the Irish football network to Virginia this fall. Farther south in Atlanta our good friend LOU LONCARIC has settled down and is the father of a future center for the "fightin* Irish." Lou is doing quite well in the investment business. In New Orleans M.^'NY RIVAS and wife Margie now have three younguns. Manny is now Dr. Rivas. Also in N.O. Is our mild com­rade LARRY "HOSS" HENNESSEY, who is now the father of FIVE. If he doesn't lead the dass he is at least tied. Larry is in the insurance busi­ness and has attained his CLU. Our Congrats, Hoss! LARRY BEDFORD was through New York recently but I didn't get a diance to see him; he is still liWng in Dallas. Lourdcne and TOM HALEY are doing much for Portland, Ore. Tom is now the administrator of a large hospital in the suburb of Milwaukie as well as a large family numbering four. Let's hear from the Northwest crowd!!! BILL McGOWAN was in New York last August heading an entourage from the firm where Bill is sales manager, W. V. Welch &. Assodates. His lovely wife Joan is expecting and I am quite sure it will be No. 3. Please remember in your prayers the mother of DICK BROWN who at th:s moment Is very ill. That does it for now. This ts the last deadline until December 15. So please in the interim let me hear from you with some real "juicy" news and gossip that possibly could n ^ the careers of our competing classmates. / 

From the Alumni OiHce: FR. JOE SIMONS CSC is the new rector of Sorin Hall on campus. JIM MORSE has joined the Detroit Lions' TV broadcasting team. JOE MOCARSKI of Maxwell House went to div. hdqrs. to be a product asst. on Instant Max­wdl House. He joined General Foods in '61 and worked in Maxwdl House's N.Y. dist. as a special accounts rep and sales supervisor. As part of his job on the staff of Jantzen, PAUL HORNUNG has been appearing in several of theia. ads. W PAUL GUITE received his master of sdence degree from the school of librar>' science at Sim­mons College on June 7. MIKE GRIFFIN got his master's in Arts from the State U. of New York at Albany in June. JOE NORTON received his bachelor ol laws from DePaul U. in June. EARL HOGAN recently joined Lcdcrle Labora­tories as a sales representative in the firm's central region. MARK AL\LEY, after serving with the credit section of the agricultural div., has been appointed mgr. of credit in Monsanto Co.'s New York dis­trict sales office. JOHN SLEVIN was available for political speeches during the fall elections. ^ CONRAD CONWAY has joined Marbon Chemi^ cal Div. of Bor^-Wamer Corp. as an accounting supervisor. PHIL CAVANAGH is now operations super­visor for Texaco Oil Co. in Monrovia, Liberia. Our s>-mpathy to Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT M. WEINER on the sudden and unaxpccted death of their fifth dnid on July 31. Kathryn Marie, born April 30, was a "picture of robust health" before she became ill with crib pneumonia and died. Our sympathy also to Mrs. JOHN LExVDER on the death of her father, Herbert "Hep" Wacchter. JIM RYAN PhD'57 paru'cjpated in 3M Co.'s summer technical program in St. Paul. He was among 50 students and teachers from 33 colleges in 18 states selected by 3M. Jim, asst. prof of chem­btry at St. Tliomas College in St. Paul, was one of four teachers employed in the program. ^ ^ 
"KO ^P** Arthur L. Roule, Jr. ^O 2529 Anderson Rd. Duluth, Minn. 55811 

It is with regret that I open this edition's column with two items of sad news. \Vord was received in August of the death of ANDREW (DREW) AMAN III on July 12; however, no otiier details are ax-ailablc. We learned also in August of the death of JIM (HOOT) WALSH's ^s^fe Carol from complications following surger\* for removal of a brain tumor on July 23. Carol had recently given birth to the Walsh's second diild, a daughter. Masses have been ofTercd f^^ both Drew Aman and Carol Walsh at the requcW of the Class, and I am sure your prayers would be appreciated by the families of both. The ad­dresses arc: Mr. and Mrs. Andrew A. Aman. Jr., 3548 Laurelwood Rd.. Kettering 9, Ohio; and James 
D. Walsh III, 1239 Bucklin, La Salle, III. Neu-s of a happier nature comes from PHILIPP MAERSCH, 107 Grant Street, N.Y. 11721. Phil was married on Aug. 31 to Patricia O'Keefc of St. James, N.Y. Patricia is a graduate of St. Mary of the Woods and is a kindergarten teacher in Huntington, N.Y. Phil is teaching high school math in the same district. RON FARROWs uife dropped us a line last summer reporting the arri\-al of their fourth child and fourth daughter, Lynn Margaret. Tlie Fa ^ rows live at 4831 College, Indianapolis 46205, an ^ Ron is with his father's firm. Farrow &. Co., at the stockyards. BILL ROBI and wife Helen of 427 Font Blvd., San Frandsco, also welcomed another addition to the family, their third child and first daughter, Ann. Bill is still with Crocker Citizen's National Bank and was recently appointed assistant \-ice­
president and assistant manager of the office at Market and Jones in San Frandsco. Bill and Helen took a trip East last May, during which ihey visited ROGER TOTH in Cleveland and BILL KANTOR in Carnegie, Pa. Bill also reports that MIKE HERB is now married and is Hring in Olympia, Wash. 
JOHN KEHOE's wife Maureen informs us that the Kehocs are now a family of five — including 
sons Mark and Michael, and daughter Maureen Jacqueline, born last February-. John U with Reilly -Tar & Chemical as a research engineer. They 
Vr c residins at 2616 Lincoln Lane, Indianapolis. 
Well, that's all the new-s we have. I would be ver>* happy to report more if only you would sub­mit more. Before closing, since this is the year-end issue, may I wish all of you a Merry Christmas and the best of everything for the New Year. 

From the Alumni Office: Capt. GERRY WETZEL has completed a six-month overseas ordnance officer course at the Army Ordnance Center and School at Aberdeen Pro\'ing Ground, Md. In October, 1963, he returned from an assignment on Okinawa. Capt. P.AUL LYNCH is a pilot for the S.\C's ML7th Bomb Wing at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, W.hich has won the coveted USAF Outstanding Unit Award. Paul and members of his wing will wear the medal as a permanent decoration for helping the wing achieve a sustained superior performance rating in keeping SAC intercontinental missiles and jet bombers on constant alert. The 17th has receix'cd 10 top honors in recent months. AL STEPAN III has been selected as an inter­national fellow at Columbia U., where he is en­rolled in the dept. of public law and government. This program enables gifted American graduate students to combine professional education with ad\'anced training in international affairs. NEIL BANCROFT has been appointed asst. ^dvisor>- officer of Teachers Ins. & Annuity Assn. ^ f .\nierica and College Retirement Equities Fund. Capt. CHARLES KILB has graduated from the US.\F training course for F-lOO Super Sabre pilots at Luke AFB, Ariz., and is now- "combat ready" in the supersonic jet fighter. He has been as­signed to a Tactical Air Command unit at Eng­land AFB, La. After a year's study at ^fa^queltc U. JOHN FRfVNKS attended Western Rescr\c U.. where he received a master's and a doctorate in organic chemistry in '6i. Dr. Franks has accepted a position as a senior organic chemist with Eli Lilly and Co., Indianapolis-based pharmaceutical firm. D.WE WOLL has joined the US Dept. of Labor in the Bureau of Emplo>Tncnt Security as a man­agement intern. BILL BUSCEMI received his master of arts from Ohio State U. in August. A Wc just received word that MIKE GLE^VSON " s now living on Star Route 2 in New Braunfcls, Texas. JOHN VOLSKE was promoted to Sgt/1 while assigned to hdqrs. co. of the 593d Engineer Group at Granite Cit\' (111,) Army Depot as personnel sgt. of the company. DAVE ZONIES and wife Jackie have three chil­dren (Debbie, Dave and Kim) with another one due in September. Dave is in residence for internal medicine at the U. of Pcnn. in Philadelphia, where he also served his internship. Be sure and put Dr. in front of his name when you drop him a note. Capt. PAUL PIKELL received the US.\F Com­mendation Medal at Vandenberg AFB, Calif,, for meritorious ser\-icc as a ground electronics officer at Larson AFB, Wash. 9 Capt. DICK BIES, a legal officer, is serving with a unit of the US.\F in Europe at Senibach .\B, Germany, JERRY DODGE, juvenile lead of the Broadway musical hit "Hello, Dolly," has had TV bits in such New York-based series as The Defenders, The Doctors and the Nurses and Car 54. LEE TODD has joined the faculty of the U. of Illinois as an asst. prof of inorganic chemistry. JOHN HEDRICK MA'58 has joined the staff of Kent State U. as an instructor in English in the Canton Center. JOE O'GRADY MA'58 was promoted to the rank of captain in the Army Rescr\e. Capt. O'Grady, intelligence officer for the I57th Support Battalion, is an asst. prof of history at LaSalle ^ollege , Philadelphia. 
Joseph P. Mulligan 
'59 Kcnrick Seminary 7800 Kenrick Rd. St. Louis, Mo. 
I have not received much news since reunion weekend so this column will contain little infor­mation. Thanks arc in order to JOHN LEAHY for his assistance in taking care of some of the nccessar>* detail work for the weekend plans. All in all I think we had a good turnout for our first get-together — summer camp seemed to be our biggest impairment; however, I am sure that our tenth will produce some faces that wc didn't get to see. 
TOM L. TRINLEY is a chemical engineer with the DuPont Co. at their Marshall Lab in Phila­delphia. He, his ^vife and their four children now reside in WilHngboro, N.J. 
JULIUS JODLBAUER recently graduated from the U, of Maryland and by now I presume has passed his bar exam; on Sept, 5 he was married to Miss ^(arcia Isaah from Elkton, Md. 
SHANNON "SAM" SMITH recently started to work for Hartford Life Ins. Co. in Cincinnati as a sales representative. He will undergo his train­ing program in Chicago. 
GEORGE ROSS recently entered St. Gregory Scminar\' in Cincinnati and is studying for the dio­cese of Lansing, Mich.; at present he is taking a Latin re%'iev** course. 
CARL W. ENGSTROM was graduated from Albany Law School in June, 1962, passed the bar exam and was admitted to practice before the New York and Federal Bar, November, 1962; he is now associated with the law firm of Smith, Pattison, Sampson and Jones, Troy, N.Y. Carl and his wife Kathr>-n have two children, Carl and Kathr>-n. 
ROBERT ^VETOSKA worked this summer for Tobin-Stahr Co, in Ma>%vood, 111. — he is now of course with the Chicago Bears. Congratulations on your recent engagement. Bob, but I have for­gotten the girl's name. 
MICKEY SUNSTROM will be relieved of his tour of duty as of November and \viU return to Chicago for some further schooling. 
The Class of *59 expresses their deepest s>'m­pathy to WILLIAM MORENCY on the recent death of his father. 
From the Alumni Office: 
After the last reunion President JOHN HAY­WARD sent in this report: "The concensus was that the turnout was good and ever>'onc enjoyed 
New examinations announced by CIVIL SERVICE COMi\nSSION 
Applications are now being accepted 
for the 1965 Federal Scnice Entrance 
Examination, the U. S. Civil Service 
Commission has announced. The examt­
nation, open to college seniors and gradu­
ates regardless of major study, offers the 
opportunity to begin a career in the 
federal ser\*ice in one of over 200 kinds 
of positions. These positions are located 
in various federal agencies both in Wash­
ington, D. C, and throughout the United 
States. A few overseas positions will also 
be filled. 
Depending on the qualifications of the candidates, starting salaries for persons appointed from this examination will be $5,000 and 6,050 a year. A ^vritten test is required, except for those candidates who have attained a sufficiently high score on the Graduate Record Exami­nation Aptitude Test. Six tests have been scheduled. The closing date is April 15, 1965. 
A limited number of Management In­ternships with starting salaries of $6,050 and $7,220 a year will also be filled from this examination. An additional written test is required and additional education or experience is required for the positions paying $7,220 a year. Applicants for these positions must ffle by January 21, 1965, 
Details concerning the requirements, further information about the positions to be filled, and instructions on how to apply may be obtained from many post offices throughout the country, college placement offices. Civil Service Regional Offices, or from the U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington, D. C. 20415. 
himself. Tlie work done by the alumni office wai evident and remarked on by manr oS my rliw mates. 
"Bein? still close enough to andcrgndaate dacys to retain something of an anti'^rganization sjnrit, the only officer we got around to changing was the Class Secretary. What with DENNY N£AI>*s impending nuptials in October, he pleaded to be relieved, and we settled on JOE MULLIGAN aa his replacement. 
"Joe is in the seminary in St. Louis, althon^ he u-ill be ordained for the diocese of Covington, Kentucky. His address is Kenrick Seminary* 7800 Kenrick Road, St. Louis, Mo. 
"I have heard from JOHN LEAHY, who is now safely ensconced in Southern California." NEAL LAMPING received his master of science from Ohio State U. in late August. 
ED RlCCIUn has been appointed an Advanced Science Writing Fellow for the 1964-65 academic year at Columbia U.*s Graduate School of Jour­nalism. He will receive stipends and tuition for nine months while attending any course relating to his individual program. 
Ed has written a series on the use of animals in scientific research and wen a special atation fnxn the Animal Care Panel. Ed was the first recipient of this citation. The scries was reprinted in book­let form and widely circulated by I^erl e I.abora­tories. 

1/tt. GEORGE AVILSON has been awarded the US.\F Air Medal for meritorious achieve­ment during aerial flights in support of the fight against communist aggression in Viet Nam. George, a pilot, flies with Vietnamese Mr Force crews to assist and ad%'ise them on combat tactics ag^nst the Viet Conif. 
MARTIN McGINN was appointed food specialist for .Atlas Chemical Industries Inc., with headquar­ters in Chicago. For the past year he has been technical correspondent, also in the Chicago area. 
ALEX CAMERON has Joined the faculty of the English dept. at the U. of Dayton. Alex has taught at ND since '61 and is a candidate for a doc­torate here. 
DAVE HOSINSKI has been appointed a trust officer of the St. Joseph Bank & Trust Co. Dave has been admitted to practice law before the US courts of Indiana. 
JIM GRIFFIN has joined Socony Mobil Oil Co.'s public relations dept. as assoc. editor of the em­ployee newspaper, Mobil World. Jim was a re­porter on ncAvspapers in Elkhart, Ind., South Bend, Bayonnc, N.J., and Ghana. West Africa, before joining Community Counselling Ser\*ice in '63. 
1/Lt. ROBERT ROBBEN has entered USAF pilot training at Reese AFB, Tex., and will fly the newest AF jet trainers and receive special academic and military training during the year-long course. 
RUDY HORNISH, staff writer for the Prudential Ins. Co. of America's public relations and adver­tising dept. for the past year, has been promoted to asst. editor. Rudy has a master's degree from Seton Hall. 
Dr. AL COOKE was graduated in June from Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia. 
A large group of '59ers were awarded their mas­ter's in business administration from Harvard U. on June H. These included: TOM CLAHIL, JOE COLLINS, FIUNCIS GR.AH.AAf, BILL REILLY and RICHARD RYAN. At the same time and place JIM SHORT received his LLB. 
Our s>*mpathy to Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL R. O'CONNOR JR. on the death of their infant daughter. Mary Brenna was bom May 27 in Baltimore and died Sept. 18. 
BOB HORG.AN PhD'59 is now mayor of Dubuque and teaches a practical politics course at Clark College. 
Come ALIVE in '65! Class of '60 Anniversary 5 REUNION-.-JHne 11-12-13 
•f A John F. Gder 1045 linden Ave. Wihnette, HL 

From the Alumni Office; JOHN DORRIAN received his master of aits degree from Ohio State U. on August 28. 
ALLAN CHONKO received his bachelor of so­ence and BILL STEHLE his bachelor of laws oo June 13 from Ohio State U. 
PIERCE DcGROSS of Jell-O goes to Post as a 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 55 
product asst. on Tang. He has been in the Army 
for two years and before tiiat worked for Jcll-O 
as a sales rep of 15 months in the New York 
•district. 
After rccci«ng his MS in mechanical engineering 

from ND in *62, LEO BILLING spent two years 
in the Na\"y, recently Joined the staff of the Union 
Carbide Corp. Crj-ogenic Spccdivay Group and is 
now working at Tona%t-anda, N.Y. 
DR. TOM .\DAMSON graduated from Marquette 

U. Dental School in '6i and is now practicing dcntistr>- in the USAF at McCIcllan .\FB, Sacra­mento, with a commission as Capt. 
MIKE WADE dropped into the .-Mumni Oflice 

Sept. 29. ^tikc is an asst. cashier for the Na­
tional Bank of Alaska in .Anchorage. 
DR. ED LODISH lias successfully completed his four-year academic and clinical program at Chi­<ago College of Osteopathy and was graduated with the degree of Doctor of Osteopathv in June of 19M. 
BOB MAGUIRE has joined the art bureau of 

N. W. Aycr & Son, Inc., in the advertising agcncj-'s Philadelphia ofiice. 
HENRY "RUSTY" WLKE and xxifc Barbara welcomed their first son. Brian, in July, Tlicy have two daughters •— Valerie, a flaming redhead, and Amy, a brunette. 
NEIL MCLAUGHLIN has been hired as head 

track coach, asst. football coach and director of 
St. Joseph's High School's (South Bend) ph\-sical 
education program. 
DON CURLOMC received his master's degree in mathematics from Washington U. in '63 and is a candidate for a doctoral degree there. He has joined the faculty of E\-ans\-iIIe College as an in­structor of matli. 
JOHN DRESK A has been promoted to Quarter­master Capt. and is US Army garrison quarter­master operations officer at Camp Zama, Japan. His wife, Laurana, is in Japan with him. 
JOHN C4RPENTER was commissioned a LTJG in the Coast and Geodetic Sun'c\*, US Dcpt. of Commero;. As his first assignment, John will ser\'c aboard the C&GS ship '"Pcirce," a hydrographic surx'cy Vessel tvhicli has been conducting a cliarting 
survey o{ the craters ot Winj-ah Bay, N.C. Tlie 
vessel is based at Sa\-annah, Ga. 
TIM NEEDLER, as an Army Rcscr\e PFC, com­pleted his two weeks of soldiering at Ft. Sheri­dan, III., last summer and returned home to his family in Ft. Wayne, Ind. 
Mr. and Mrs. PHIL ROMIG JR. now have a son, Phillip III, born April 25, 19«. Phil has returned to scliool full-time at the Colorado School of Mines to work toward an adv*anccd degree. 
MAURO PANDO pronounced his first vows in the Congregation of Holy Cross on August 16 at Sacred Heart Novitiate. Jordan, Minn. 
From FRED GADE: ".After graduating from Notre Dame in I960, I went to the University of Michigan Law School and graduated in 1963. Then I taught business law at >lichigan State for a year and "was graduated from there this summer ^rith an MBA. Presently I have joined the legal staff of the Lincoln National Life Ins. Co. and my new address is 407 W. Branning Ave., Ft. Wa>iic. 
Ind." 
BOB BECKERLE has joined the Trane Com­pany's Washington. D.C., sales office as a dealer specialist. 
RON BL.AKE, SAC missile launch officer, has been promoted to 1/Lt. in the US.\F at Little Rock AFB, Ark. 
Dr. DICK DI DONATO and Dr. RON HOR­VATH were graduated from Jefferson Medical College of Philadelphia in June, 1954. 
PAUL SMITH received his master of business administration on June 11 at Har\-ard U. 
ALPHONSE DcFLORIO .MA60 lias been ap­pointed asst. director in the office of admissions at Manhattan College. 
CECIL LOBO MA'60 has been promoted to asst, prof of dvjl engineering at Rose Polytechnic Institute. 
'61 
NickPammich 34 Dartmouth Rd. West Orange, NJ. 

For fear of perpetrating the greatest jinx of all time, I refuse to even open my mouth concerning the currtrnt *'Irish*' football senson. To date their record is unblemished, when this article reaches you the '64 season will be history. If this at last doesn't look like the real thing, then I am sor­rowfully mistaken. I'm sure that ".\ra" could be the start of something big. 
My heartiest congratulations to MIKE "SMOKV* 

56 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End, 2964 
SEMINARIANS pictured ju August at Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn,, are: (kneeling:, I.-r.) David Schlaver '65, Mt. Prospect, lU.; Mauro J. Pando '60, Larchmont, N.Y.; Oliver F. Williams '61, West Orange, N.J.; and Joseph B. Blake '61, Erie, Pa.; (standing, l.-r.) Carl F. Eby '62, Detroit, Mich.; Edu-ard A. (Monk) Malloy '63, ^Vashfngton, D.C; James M. Condon '64, Daricn, Conn.; DaWd Schick '63, Rohrerstown, Pa.; and Duanc A. Balccrski '63, Grosse Pointe Park, Mich. Williams, Blake, Malloy, Condon and Balcerski received the habit of the Congregation of Holy Cross, while Schlaver, Pando, Eby and Schick pronounced their first vows. Ninety-five candidates for the priesthood and brotherhood entered the two seminaries on the campus. Holy Cross Junior and St. Joseph Hall. 
BAER, on his marriage to Miss Judy Nowak of Dunkirk, N.Y. on June 20, 19fr*. The big man finally went out of circulation. The same to DICK PUGH who was recently wed to Miss Katy Zucli* mann on .Aug. 22, I9&i. Dick, who is currently a Lt. in the Na\-y, was married in a ceremony that took place at the Orlando .\FB, Fla. 
RAY "CHIEF" VALES is now working with the IBM Corp. in the operations analysis department of the general products division in Harrison, N.Y. Ray started with IBM after completing his mas­ter's in business administration at Columbia U. PETE MURPHY is currently working and living in Westchester County. RON ZAH is teacliing in Toledo after getting married last June. MIKE WHITE has completed his first year with Price Watcrhouse and Co., an accounting firm in Port­land, Ore. He has also been appointed Oregon chairman of the Accounting Careers Council, pro­fessional organization formed to stimulate interest in the accounting profession. PHIL HOFFMAN is now doing accounting work for a iirm in Klamath Falls, Ore. 
A tremendous success story for CHARLES "CHUCK" LENNON. Charlc\- is currently assis­tant baseball and basketball coach for the Irish and is just doing a great Job. Tlie best of luck to you. Chuck, from all of us, the "Gent," ZIPPY HAN­NON, and especially Scrix-nnich "in there." Charley and his ^nfe were also recently blessed \vith a baby boy last October 13, Brian Patrick Lxnnon. Chuck spoke of a trip to Denver, Colo., where he visited with Louise and BOB SCARPITTO. Bob is pla>ing with Denver in the AFL and in tlic off season he is doing public relations work for a local bank. The couple recentiv had their second child, Robert Allen, on March 24, 1964. 
JOHN CASARINO is in his final year of medi­cal school at Birmingham, .-Ma. He spent this last summer doing externship in pediatrics at the Lutheran Medical Center in Brookl}^!. Cas visited JOHN GISONDI in Linwood, N.J., over the sum­jDcr; John has ti*-o more years at Fairleigh Dick­inson Dental School. TOM MUDD, attending ]a%v school at the U. of Mar\iand, WAS married in September to a young lady from Maryland whose name I will have to apologize for not having. BOB CECIL is doing intcnigencc uork for the US Navv. WALT "TURTLE" RIEBENACK has been elected Student Law .Assn. president of th ^ ND Law School. That man is sure not a turtl^ nou*. MIKE FARRAR, number one man scho­lastically in the Notre Dame Law ScIiool, is now married and was expecting a first cliild in Sep­tember. R.\Y RATKOWSKI, a Lt. in the Marines, is now stationed in Hawaii. His wife Diane recently received her degree in drama from 
the U. of Hawaii. TOM CUBBAGE completed ill's law courses at Oklahoma U. last June and is now practicing with his uncle in Gushing, where he is currently living with his wife Linda and 
their daughter, Cathy. | 
FRANK 0'CON*NOR, after completing two I years as a 1st Lt. in the Army, is now a registered j representative for Baker, Weeks and Co., investment f securities, on Wall Street, New York City-^ [' received a ver^' nice letter from JERRY "WHEELS ^ McNAMAR.A*s wife, Connie. The Decatur Flash is working for a local accounting firm, Murphy. Jenne and Jones. Jerry and Connie have two children now, a boy and a girl, and according to Connie they are real ringers for Jcrr>' . . . poor kids! (Mac, I had to get that one in.) TERRY MARTIN graduated from Virginia Law School and is now with his late faiher*s firm. Martin and Dowding, as an associate. BILL HEINBECKER is attending Washington U. In St. Louis. PAT CLARK is nou- employed in the accounting de­partment of tlie H. K, Porter Co. in Warren. Ohio. Last July Pat traveled to Sicily wlierc he was married to Miss Maria Fangano in the city of Catania. NORM BECK is now a Lt. stationed on the USS **Intrcpid" in Spain. Hts tour of dulfl will have been completed in September and he will then make his home in Mar>iand. JOHN BURNS was graduated from Colorado Law School in June and is now preparing for his bar exam. After taking the bar, John plans to spend three months in Europe. 
From the Alumni Office: DON LEAVERS received his master of science degree from Ohio State U. on June 12. From JIM BANG: "I graduated from the North­western U. School of Laiv with a JD, June, 1964. and am now associated with a four-man law firm in Duluth, Minn. From our residence in Mishau-aka, Ind., I, my wife JoAnn and our clnldren, Kathleen 
Marie, James Julius Jr. and Thcrcsc Marie, moved 

to Duluth. Will be fomially admitted to practice i ^ MtnQesota, October 23. Especially wish to cor­1 ^fspond with members of the Twilight Zone as I regards their current actiWtics. Direct all this in­,^ formation to 210 N. 16th Ave. East, DuUith. Minn. 
Incidentally, wife is expecting our fourth in December." ANTHONY SORCE held a showing of his work .It the South Bend Art Center Nov. I. Currently he > teaching art at Nazareth College. .After graduating from Cornell U. with an MS in operations research in 1964, STEVE SMITH has 

1. joined Monsanto Co.'s central research dept. as a [ tiiathematician in its applied mathematics section. 
PAUL HOLMAN notified us that he now has , ihrec sons—Paul Gordon II, bom at Fort Hood. ^ex-, on May 19, 1962; John Adam, bom at Fori ^ood , Tex., on Sept. 30, 1963; and Joseph Raymond *i)orn at Fort Wayne, Ind., on Oct. 13, 1964. 
1/Lt. JOHN B.AUERNSCHUB is a member of the select group of 148 US.\F personnel now on dut>* with the National Aeronautics and Space Adm. John is an aerospace engineer at X/VSA's Goddard Space Flight Center at Grccnbclt, Md. He helps design and develop equipment used in space radiation sampling projects. 
JACK RY/VN, Kansas City, 5Io., is now serving as a I/Lt. in Korea. He completed his law work at Missouri U. in Januar\% 1964, and passed the 

„ Missouri bar in February-. After graduating from paratrooper school and receiving his wings he em­barked for Korea and his present assignment as 
fviccutivc officer of the Non-Comniissioncd Officers ^Academy. 
1/Lt. CARL VAN HECKE received an Air Defense Command cofTco cup in special recognition at Stead AFB, Ncv., for his submission of a military' improvement suggestion that will result in cost reductions and more efficient operations. He also received a cash award for developing and suggesting a method of simplifying the administrative duties of ADC's electronic warfare training units. 
Wc received the following about ED BRADLEY: ". . . graduated Aug. 1964 with his master's degree in civil engineering and is presently working with the US Public Health Scrv. in sanitary engineering. He and his wife, Beverly, were expecting their third child in October. They now have two daughters, Elizabeth and Bridget. Ed spent t%vo years as an officer in the Anny before returning to gradu­ate school (at ND).** Ed will be living in Charlottes­

ville. Va. PAT GALVIN was graduated from Georgetown 
U. with a bachelor of laws degree on June 8. While there, he was active on the Law Journal and in Delta Thela Phi. 
DENIS OWENS and PAUL MxVNlON received their juris doctors from DePaul U. on June 10. 
JOE SIMERI has been admitted to the practice of law before the Indiana Supreme Court and has joined a law firm in South Bend, lie received his juris doctor from Northwestern U. Law School last June and was recipient of the Wigmore Key, awarded annually to one member of the senior class who has done the most for the Law School and towards preser\*ing its traditions. 

JOE BL.\KE and OLIVER WILLLAMS received \ *^he habit of the Congregation of Holy Cross at «|lacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn., August 15. 
CHARLES a\YCE has joined the Trane Com­pany's Dallas, Tex., sales office as a general line salesman. 
BOB CAMPBELL was graduated June 11 from the Har\"ard U. Law School cum laudc. At the same graduation /\NTON VIERLING received his master of science in hygiene and ED McAN.\NEY received 

€
I his LLB. i PETE REILLY sent the following: "Just a note to tell vou that my address has changed from 439 Kennebec St. No. 3A, Wash., D.C. 20021 to 456 Kennebec St. No. 202, Wash., D.C. 20021. I also might say that I have recently been promoted to 1/Lt. in the USAF and am assigned to Bolting FB, D.C. My wife Janice and I arc expecting our . _cond child in December. **More news of local alumni — JAY G.ALLAGHER and wife Betty Ann arc expecting their third child in October. Jay just finished his third year of night classes at Georgetown Law Center. "PAT SMYTH is resigning his employment with the Sa\-ings and Loan Co. to enter American Uni­versity Law School in September. "DAN O'DONOGHUE is scr\ing with the USAF in Germany. JIM KENNY and his wife Trudy are the proud parents of a new boy, Kevin Henry. Jim flies helicopters for the Marines." Thanks vcr>- much for the news, Pete. JOHN HOFFER LLB'61 of West Covina, Calif... formerly of South Bend, has been named asst. trust 
WHITE HOUSE FELLOWS 
President Lyndon Johnson annoiinccd in October the establishment of the White House Fellows. The Fellows will be named by the President on the recom­mendation of a distinguished Commission on White House Fellows headed by David Rockefeller. 
The purpose of the program is to give the Fellows firsthand, high-level experi­ence with the workings of the federal government and to increase their sense of participation in national affairs. It is not a college or a scholarly program. The Fellows will have completed their educa­tion and a number of them will be well into their careers. They will be chosen from business, law, journalism, the uni­versities, architecture, or other occupa­tions. Each will have demonstrated high moral character, exceptional ability, marked leadership qualities, and unusual promise of future development. 
There will be 15 White House Fellows and they will ser\*e for 15 months. One Fellow will be assigned to the office of the Vice-President; one to each Cabinet officer; and four to members of the White House staff. In addition to their daily work, the Fellows will take part in semi­nars and other activities especially plan­ned to ad\*ance the purposes of the program. 
Each Fellow will go on leave from his present occupation. He will receive a base salary of $7,500 - $12,000 depending upon age, plus other increments for family responsibilities. The program is being sup­ported by a grant from the Carnegie Foundation. 
All Fellows must be 23 to 35 years old; .\merican citizens; and graduates of an accredited. four-year college. Women as well as men and local, state, and federal government employees are eligible. The deadline for applications is December 15, 1964. The Fellows will be announced in the spring of 1965 and begin their 15­month period on or about June 1, 1965. 
Applications and inquiries should be addressed to the Commission on AVhite House Fellows, The White House, Washington, D.C. 
officer at the main office of the Security First National Bank in Los Angeles. 
• # I  John  N. Morcland  
O I  Bookin  &  Moreland  
Law  211/2  East Main  St.  
Ottuniwa,  Iowa  52501  

NO NEWS IS BAD NEWS. I would like to take this opportunity to wish every­one a Merr>- Christinas and a Happy New Year, and after next month's football games, I should be able to have some neus for you about the class. 
•JP ^ Terrence McCarthy 23420 WclUngton Aft. Clements, Mich. 
My lost article carried the wrong name above it by mistake—so don't fear; I'm still on the job. 
Now this old salt is happy to write this article whicli is crammed full of news reported by some of vou about you, yours and other golden-domers. From Ft. Riley way 1st Lt. BILL CHOQUETTE sent a newsy letter this summer. Bachelor Bill served in Germany for ten months before getting a \'acation in the Mojave Desert, where he participated for three months in Operation Desert Strike. Bill was best man for RAY SHEA and Rita Morrel, who were married last summer. Ray and AL MANISCALCO are in their third year at N.Y. Med. College, where both have made the dean's list. 

Ens. HAROLD "H " ORTHMEYER USNR wrote one of his t>'pical comical letters explaining his past activities. Presently **H" is a second year denial student at Ohio State. He writes that Ens. JOE TfVNNIAN is working with the legal corps some­where in Florida. IVAN GRADISAR was married this past summer and continues his medical studies at Ohio State; MIKE GUARNIERI is doing srad studies in either biochemistry or anatomy at Ohio State, and JIM NOCE is at Catholic U. working for his Ph.D in psychology. Congratulations to GEORGE GAUTHIER on his marriage to Frances Joy Steen­bcrgen on June 27, \9&t. George will get his PhJ> in organic cjiem in June 1966 from the U. of Ne%v Hampshire. BILL KRUEGER is also doing grad studies in chemistry at U.N.H. 
Another fine letter was sent on by JOHN GIL­LARD, who is in the marketing dept. of the Chicago Tribune. John ivriles from his. pad in the Marina Towers that RICH J.^LOVEC married Mary Ann Josh on Sept. 5 and has only one year left at Northwestern Law School; TOM HATCH has a leave of absence from General Foods and is pursuing his .MBA at the U. of Chicago. 
JACK HAYFORD is back with Ernst and Ernst after six months in San Franrtsco with the Coast Guard. Congratulations, Jack, on your marriage to Barbara McGann in Oswego, N.Y., on Oct. 10, I9M. JOHN DEARIE has been transferred to Chicago as a salesman for Union Carbide. ANDY BURD and his w*ifc Mary had their second child in October. .-Kudy is with J. Walter Thompson and on radio and television production for Alberto Culver products. JIM KURAS and his wife Pat had their first girl late last spring. J:m Is with Procter and Gamble in Cincinnati. JOHN ZIMMER Is with the Air National Guard In Denver and works In the Stangcl industrial hardware business in Mani­towoc, Wise. BILL WEINSHEIMER has announced his engagement to Roberta Limarqi (SMC '63); they plan to be married in June after Bill finishes law school at Northwestern. FRANK MOOR^LAN and wife expect llieir second child soon. Frank U in the Air Force and is stationed in Madison, Wise. JOHN CHESTNUT was married to Peggy Angland In August and is in his last year of law at North­western. 
DENNY BUTLER is the secretary of the Cleve­land ND Club and a law student at Slarshall. Denny would like to hear from CHARLES Mca\RTHY, who has his M.Ed, and Is teaching somewhere on the West Coast. CHARLES SCHUM.ACHER lives In San Bernardino, where he uorks for GMAC of GM. D.AN KR.-\LIK received his M.Ed, from Wayne State U., Detroit, and received a fellowship to continue his studies toward his Ph.D. EARL LINE­HAN and wife Darlclle are expecting their first in the spring. Earl works in Chicago for .Arthur Andersen, the same accounting firm as RICH NUGENT. ART NORDHOFF and family live in Bloomington, Ind., tvhere .-Vrt Is in his last year of law school. ROGER HARVEY, wife Janet and son Roger also live in Bloomington, where Roger h studying for bis Ph.D in business. MIKE CON­WAY, who has his master's in Sociology, ND'©, took his wife and children Mary Ann and Mike, born In June '63 and '64 respectively, and moved west. They live in San Jose, where Mike works as a city administrative anal>-st. TERRY McaARTHY and wife Sandic spent a rewarding month at the US Naval .\cademy last summer while Terry attended officer orientation classes before he returned to dental school classes. 
From the .MumnI Office: CARL EBY pronounced his first vows In the Con­gregation of Holy Cross at Sacred Heart Noritiate, Jordan, Minn., on August 16. JLM CLARKE and JLM ALVRTIN received their master of business administration degrees from Harvard U. on June II. At the same time BILL IRVIN received his master of arts. TONY NAPOLI is now working for the Navy Bureau of Yards & Docks. JIM BURKHART has accepted employment with the National Aeronautics & Space Administration. LARRY STOCK has received his I/Lt. bars as asst. chief, requirement allocation and distribution section, transportation div. of TJS Army Commmit­cations Zone, Europe. His wife Bette is overseas with him. 1/Lt. JOHN MGGRATH, an electronic war­fare onicer instructor, has completed the rigorous USAF Survival and Special Training School at Stead AFB, Nev., and has been reassigned to an Air Training Command unit at Mather AFB, Calif. 1/Lc. VINCE MICUCCI has berji named Sportsman 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
of the Year for his athletic achic\-ements at his AFB at Plattsburg, N.Y. Vince, with his wife and two children, stopped m the office for a visit. Vince ^\*as on his way to Cheyenne, ^Vyo., and Iiis new base, while his wife and children stayed in South Bend for s few weeks visiting her parents. 
USAF 2/Lt. PAUL McKENNA is %%ith a security wing with an APO out of San Francisco. 1/Lt. PAT MORAN has received his navigator's silver wings at James Connally AFB, Tex., and has been reassigned to an Air Training Command unit at Mather AFB. Calif. 
LTJG ROBERT BUSZKIEWICZ has returned from his tour of duty in Xorfolk, Va., and will become mgr. of Eddie's Hare & The Tortoise Restaurant in South Bend. Bob's father, Eddie, is looking for\\ard to his new helper returning to South Bend with his wife Mar>' and their daughter Terri. 
HAROLD HUECKER has started work as a management intern for General Services Administra­tion in their central office in Washington, D.C. 
BOB BARTHOLOME^V, after completing his master of fine arts degree in industrial design at Michigan State U., is pursuing his PhD in art historj- at the U. of Iowa. 
DAN ZAV.\DA recently married a Lansing girl. Sue King, a coed at Michigan State. Dan will complete his graduate studies in June of '65 at Michigan State. 
BILL PEDTKE has joined the philosophy dcpt, faculty at Ducliesne College and .Academy of the Sacred Heart in Omalia. 
DAN KOENIG is teadiing sociology- at Gannon College in Erie, Pa. 
BILL BARTLETT received tlie degree of master of business administration from the U. of Chicago on March 20. Bill chose finance and accounting as his fields of concentration and has started work for RCA in New York. 
TOM TWARDOWSKI has been appointed assoc. editor of the \^llano^•a Law Rc\ieu-. The Law Review, which is a significant publication in the field of recognized legal authority, Is circulated through­out the English-speaking world. It is composed of articles submitted by distinguished legal scholars, "comments" on problems of the law, and "notes" on recent court decisions of legal import. Tom and hb partner won the Law School's annual Reimel Moot Court Competition, held last April. 
DICK MEECE is at present on duty as finance officer at Taegu, Korea, with the US Army. 
TOM GROSS received his MS In industrial ad­nunistratlon from Carnegie Institute of Teclinology in June. 
TONY BILL played a Marx brother on stage in "Room Service" at the Thcatre-by-thc-Sea in Venice, Calif. 
TOM KELLY, formerly a technical representa­tive for Burroughs Corp., has been named systems mgr. by Data Computing Services Inc. of Soutli Bend. 
BOB TIGELMAX received his master's degree in business administration at the U. of Chicago in June and is now working for the Babcock & Wilcox Co., Barbcrton, Ohio. 
After serving with auditing firms in Pontiac and Detroit, DAVE BOYD has joined the Western Michigan U. accounting dcpt. as an instructor. Dave received his master of business administration degree from the U. of Detroit in .August. 
BOB HENRY spent 12 weeks of special study at At^onne National Laboratory working on selected engineering problems directly related to the lab's research and development activities. 
DAVE ROMANO, LTJG in the Navy, recently received his honorable discharge and is now employed with the Crocker Citizens National Bank in Los .\nge1cs. 
After graduation, JOHN MULL LLB'62 joined Associates Investment Co., South Bend, where he was recently named asst. treas. to supervise internal operations in the treasurer's dept. 
•«^ Paul K. Rooney " • Simpson Thatcher & Bartlett Law 120 Broadway 
New York 5, N. Y. 
TTie Notre Dame Law Association Lunclicon was held at the Waldorf on .August 13 In conjunction with the American Bar .Association Convention in New York City. DEAN O'.MEARA, one of the principal speakers, noted that PROF. KELLEN­BERG has left the Law School for reasons of health. I understand tliat he is spending this academic year in Tanganyika teaching law under a Ford Foundation grant. BOB BLAKEY, '60, has resigned his position in Washington, D.C, and will handle the property course this fall. 
KEVIN LYONS was the only other member of our group in attendance at the luncheon, although 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 
PAUL COFFEY '61, who is with Sherman & Sterling 
in Manhattan, handled some of the arrangements. 
Kevin and Fran had their third baby boy (9 lbs., 
6 ozs.), Michael, last June 27. Kevin, Fran and their 
two other sons drove down to see JOHN DELL in 
West Palm Beacli last September and reported that 
Big John and family were doing mighty fine. 
Sophie and JIM GOEFHALS had their second 
baby boy ( 9 lbs.), Robert, last July 17. Yours truly 
and Marge also irame through with a baby boy (8 
lbs., 3 ozs.), Keith, last June 22. 
Also had word from Kevin that JERRY BRANN 
Is married. Congratulations. 
That's all for now. Enjoy your Christmas. 
'A 3 Frank P. Dicello 
218 Pahner Hill Rd. 
Old Greenwich, Conn. 
I'm afraid I must open this column on a rather sad note. Second Lt. HAROLD HOFFM.AN drowned in a flood near the truce line between North and South Korea on August 12. 
Hal and an enlisted man had been sent in a v%Teckcr to retrieve a vehicle stranded In a flood-swollen stream. The wrecker also got stuck, and the two attempted to swim to shore when the water began to rise. 
Thanks to .MIKE DELMONTE and JOHN D.\­BROWSKI for immediate report of the above news. Both Mike and John attended the funeral in Trenton. 
In the Mail Bag — a card from BOB BRUTVAN. He and Nancv* Fagan of SMC Class of '&4 were married on .tlie campus on Aug. 22. Bob Is,working on a Ph.D in mlcroblologv- at St. Bonavcnture U. He and Nancy will live at 608'/; W. Healv St. in Olean, .V.V. 
A letter from FRANK MARTORAXO. Frank is serving aboard the USS .Albany In the Atlantic At the time he vs'rotc, he was looking forward to attending the wedding of TO.M HOTOPP to Donna Duncan in Chicago on Aug. 28. .Also planning to attend were PAT HALEY and MIKE CONNOR. Mike will be on leave from the USS Midway in the Pacific after spending six months in Japan. 
A card from M.ARTIN GORDON, who is working on a Ph.D In history at the U. of Wisconsin, an­nouncing his engagement to Diane RIedcmann. He also sent along the news that a daughter, Mary Sara, 
l^ff 
YOU CAN HELP NOTRE DAME 
BY Sending a personal contribution Submitting names of friends inter­
ested in the University 
Ad\'ising ND Foundation Office if your company has a *plan of giving' Informing University of your cor­
poration's 'areas of interest* 
Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.e. paintings, equipment, books, etc.) 
Naming the Universit>* as a benefici­ary in your insurance pjoHcy 
Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations in your community 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION NOTRE DAME , INDIANA 
was bom to JERRY HEWITT and wife on June 22.­
A wedding Invitation from DAN SALDINO. He 
and Senior Ball Queen, Mary Lou Pierson were to 
be married in Chicago on Sept. 12. A i 
A note from PETE HARDING aboard the carritP i 
Valley Forge over near Vict Nam. Pete plans to be' 
home in November for a short visit. 
A wedding inwtation from CHUCK HARTMAN. 
He and Mary Lou Campbell were married on June I. 
Among those attending were JIM MALLING and 
DICK FELLRATH. Chuck and Mary Lou are now 
living at Fort Lewis, Wash., where Chuck is 
stationed with the Chemical Corps. Tlicy did return 
to Chicago, however, for the Aug. 22 wedding of 
TOM JOLIE to Judy Lamping. Tom and Judy's I 
all-ND wedding party included CHUCK JOLIE, 
CHUCK HARTMAN, JIM LAMPING, JIM BACH^ ., 
MANN, DON RYAN, and vours truly. Also attend- »' 
ing were TOM KELLY, HAL SUNDERMANN^' 
TOM CASSIDY and JOE SIMONI. The Jolics wlJP 
live at 521 Chester in Park Ridge, III. 
Pat and JOE SIMONI have just completed Peace 
Corps training for Chile at ND. They will spend the 
next 21 months in Latin America and can be reached 
through the US Embassy there. 
Other new3 flashes: 
J. J. CUNNINGHAM married Jane Plandin on June 27 in Hanover, N.H. J.\CK WALKER has received his master's degree from North Carolina U. and has applied for the Peace Corps. 
A son, William, was born to Chris and JIM 
FLEMING. DICK JAMES, PARLE BL.\KE, 
STEVE McMAHON, DAVE KENNEDY, JACK 
WALKER, and BILL Y.\LEY were seen touring 
New York Cit>- recently. MIKE WTHTNEY waj j 
engaged to Rosemar>* Grant. He is In the traming 
program for E. W. Bliss in Canton, Ohio, and plans 
to go to business school at night next year. 
PHIL RYAN, after a successful summer with the 

Scott Paper Co. in Philadelphia, plans to return 
to ND to continue graduate work in chemical 

engineering. . 
TY DEMETRIO has received a master's m bus. 

ad. from Northwestern. TONY ZACK has returned 
to Chicago after an extended tour through Africa 
and Europe. ,,.«, , 
FRANK DE S.ANT1S received an MAT degree 

from ND In August and Is married and teaching 
in Ohio. . , 
BILL SPARKS and Marlene Lyons were married In Springfield. III. on June 13. Bill is attendmg Cornell Graduate School of Business along with class­mate DAN CORGAN. Also at Cornell are BILI ^ PANAGULIS and BOB DI GULLIO In the lavW school and RANDY WOLF In engineering. KE\1N HART spent the summer as a sailing Instructor on Cape Cod and plans to return to Han.-ard in September. 
My thanks to all of you who have written con­cerning both your actl\-itics and those of our class­mates with whom you have come in contact. To those of you who haven't written, PLE.ASE drop me a line. 
From the .\liimni Ofilce: DUANE BALCERSKI and ED '^MONK" MAL­LOY received the habit of the Congregation of Holy Cross at Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan Minn., on August 15. DAVE SCHICK pronounced his firs^ vows in the Congregation of Holy Cross on Augus^ 16 at Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan. JOHN O'LOUGHLIN Is teaching history* at Loyola Academy in Wilmette, HI. TERRY SAUVAIN is a management intern at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. PHIL BERTONI, Ens. USNR, was planning to tie the knot of matrimony in October and Hve at 1520 E. 2nd St. No. 109, Long Beach, Calif. 90802. JOHN McINTYRE, a student at Rochester Medical School, Rochester, N.Y., was awarded a summer fellowship to study radioIog>- research for ten weeks. BOB HOFFMAN participated in the 19G* Technical Summer Program at USS Corporation Research Center in Monroevllle, Pa. This fall Bob 1$ back at ND where he hopes to have his mastec^ of science degree next June. W 
PETE HOURIHAN has been working for Pru­dential Ins. Co. of America since June. 
PAUL MAHOLCHIC has been named director of marketing research for Allegheny Sales Corp., a subsidiary of the chemical div. of Allegheny Steel Corp. Paul has been a graduate asst. in the U. of Miami's marketing dept. at Coral Gables, Fla. since last fall. Previously he was sports editor of the US Army newspapers at Fort Meade, Md., and was a reporter for the South Bend Tribune and the Miami (Fla.) Herald. 
JIM DANEHY Is working for State Farm Ins. Co. as a field claims representative trainee and Is assigned to the South Bend oflice. 
KEVIN CAHILL received his master of arts from Harvard U. in June. 

TOM H. WALSH, of MonticcIIo, 111., is with the ^Savy as an officer in tlit: Orient. 9 ISAAC PORCHE wrote us: "I was an electrical 
^ engineer for the Eighth Naval District Headquarters ^ in New Orleans from June 17 to Sept. 3, 1963. ' From Sept. 3, 1963, to present, I remain an elec­trical engineering instructor at Southern U. in Baton Rouge. I was married on December 28, 1963." 
US .AIR FORCE NEWS 
Keesler AFB, Miss.—2/Lt. DAVE STOELLER has graduated from technical training for com­munications officers and was sent to Larson AFB, Wash. CHARLES PAYNE was commissioned a 

:, 2/Lt. at Lackland AFB, Texas, and has been sent 
iicrc for the same training Dave received. ^ 2/Lt. ARNOLD TESTA received an MBA from ^J . of CaliL and has arrived at Charleston AFB, 
r 
S.C., for duty as an electronic data processing officer. 2/Lt. JIM BAILEY received technical training for accounting and finance officers at Shcppard AFB, Tex., and is now at Xellis AFB, Xcv. 2/Lt. DENIS O'DONOGHUE has also been sent to Nellis as a pilot after receiving his wings at Craig .AFB, Ala., and taking sur\'i\'al and spe­cial training at Stead AFB, Ncv. 2/Lt. JIM NOTTOLI received his pilot wings at Vance AFB, Okla., took the same training as Denis at Stead and is now flying for SAC at BIythevillc AFB, .Ark. Moody AFB, Fla.—2/Lts. DAN WERNER and DAN MILLER have entered pilot training and 
^upon completion of their course will receive their ^Rlvcr pilot's wings 
Laughlin AFB, Tex.—2/Lt. ED MARCATO has been awarded his pilot wings and was sent to George AFB, Calif., for flying duty in a unit nf the Tactical Air Command, 2/Lt. MIKE SEXTON has completed his solo flight in the T-37 jet trainer. TOM NADDY was commissioned a 2/Lt. after graduation from officer training school and was reassigned to Amarillo AFB, Tex., for training as a military' procurement officer. 
2/Ll. RON STAPLETON received his silver navi­gator wings at James Connally AFB, Tex., and is taking advanced training at an air training com­mand at Mather AFB, Calif. 
GRAD SCHOOL NEWS 

BILL FINLEY has joined the English dept. at jjigulvcr Military- School in Culver, Ind. TOM ^^AS.\LETTO is teaching philosophy at the U. 
of Dayion. 
Warren G. Stephens 
'64 
778 Coleman Ave. Menlo Park, Calif. 
Even though all the June grads are scattered throughout the US and abroad, it is hoped that through the Class of '64 column wc can provide a means of keeping track of the activities of each other. Unfortunately this initial column will be necessarily brief due to the scant material and information received from the various regional cor­

. .Respondents. To prevent the column from disap­
4^Pcaring in subsequent issues, I urge all those inter­ested to drop a note to me concerning what they arc doing. My address is 778 Coleman .Ave., Mcnio Park, Calif. All information and efforts are needed and appreciated greatly, I hope also that the regional correspondents will take note. 
SKIPPER VAUGHN in Texas reports that a small army of ND grads are attending law school in the Lone Star State. In addition to himself, BILL MUNSON, TOM SCHNIT2IUS, CHRIS CARMOUCHE, BILL ANDERSON, GEORGE CALLAHAN and JOHN SCHMERCIN are all first-year law students at the U. of Texas in Austin. In the Graduate School of Business there arc JOHN and JERRY BRADLEY of Dallas. 

^ ^ Around my neck of the woods, San Francisco Bay 
^^rea , the trend seems toward higher education also. RED MORONEY Is at the law books at the U. of San Francisco; BUD ARRAS is at the U. of Cali­fornia Medical School; KEN STINSON is at the U, of Santa Clara Graduate Business School; and SID GAGE and myself are at Stanford Graduate 
Business School. In addition MIKE and JLM LYDON both are in management training at Wells Fargo Bank, and DEN DAMACHINO is in the Army for six months prior to entering business. 
Many of the alumni in Northern California arc planning to charter a plane to Los .Angeles to see the ND-USC game over Thanksgiving. A great cliance to sec this year's great team and get together. 
From the Alumni Office: JIM CONDON received the habit of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross at Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn., on Aug. 15. At the same Novitiate DAVE SCHLAVER pronounced his first vows on Aug. 16. Dave entered CSC after his junior year and now will return to Moreau Seminary* to com­plete his studies. HARRY DEVERALL spent the summer working for NASA and has returned to campus. KEVIN FAGAN is working in the tax dept. at Clark Equipment Co. in Buchanan, Mich., to help support his wife and twin daughters, Anne Bridget and Kathr>-n Mary who were born on Sept. 9. Kevin, Sara and the twins are living in South Bend at 1+26 Sunwood Dr BOB GREGOIRE was appointed an electronic engineer in the Federal Civil Scr\ice at the US Naval Ammunition Depot in Crane, Ind. JEROME WHALEN has joined the staff of the Chase Manhattan Bank as a trainee in the credit dept. BILL BORBELY started work the first of August with the Prudential Ins. Co. of America. JIM CONNOLLY has been appointed a junior civil engineer with the dept. of water resources for the state of California. DENNIS BROGLIO and JOHN LONERGAN arc also working for the state of California, both with the highway agency. Dennis will be in Los Angeles and John in San Francisco. FRiVNK PAPP has received a teaching assistant­ship at the U. of Delaware, Newark, where he has started work on a doctor's degree in math this fall. TOM RILEY has joined the Maytag Co. as a design engineer in the firm's research and develop­ment div. W.\LT BARGERON spent the summer partici­pating in the technical summer program at USS Corp. Research Center in Monrocvillc, Pa. JIM PEXA participated in 3M Co.'s summer technical program in St. Paul and was back on campus this fall to continue his studies. PAUL CREEL^VN was married in Chicago on July 1, and after a honeymoon in Quebec he and Iiis bride headed for Hollis, Okla., to work for a year as Extension Lay Volunteers among Spanish-speaking Catholics and migrant workers of Our Lady of Giiadalupc Parish. RICH GONSKI is off to a great start playing baseball with the Milwaukee Braves. WALDE.MAR KISSEL of Evansville, Ind., was awarded honorable mention in the third annual national American Society of Mechanical Engineers Design Problem Contest. BEN a\SH.MAN has passed the Certified Public 

Accountant test and taken a position with Lybrand, 
Ross and Montgomery, a South Bend accounting 
firm. He attended a company accounting school at 
Drew U., Madison, N.J., under the local firm's 
auspices, and returned to South Bend Aug. 28. 
BOB LEHMANN will be back on campus for the 

next three years teaching engineering. Wc hope hell 
be spending a lot of time around Cartier ^eld. 
Of 71 newly commissioned ensigns selected by the US Navy for grad study, 10 arc 'M ND grads. • These 71 Averc drawn from among approximately 1,600 grads of 52 colleges and universities where the Na\-y maintains ROTC units. Those designated arc: DON DEL ALANZO, RON HADBAVNY, CHARLES O'NEILL, JOHN MULLIGAN (elec­trical engineering at U. of Penn.), DON TWOMEY, JIM SULLIVAN, DAVE McCAFFREY, DAN BENC2E, BOB JOHNSTON and EUGENE LYNCH. The colleges they are attending are listed in the Alumni Directory. Each of these regular officers assumes an additional obligation of three years of active duty for each year of grad study. 
JIM SZYMANSKI, after completion of six weeks advanced Reserve Officer Training Corps summer camp training at Ft. Riley, Kan., has received bis commission as a 2/Lt. 2/Lt. DICK SERAFIN has completed a nine-week air defense officer basic course at the .Army Air Defense Sfrhool, Fort Bliss, Tex. A3/C TOM FISCHER has graduated from the technical training course for USAF communi­cations wiring specialists at Sheppard AFB, Tex., and has returned to his Missouri Air National Guard unit at Jefferson Barracks, Mo. 
GRAD SCHOOL NEWS 

JOHN MALINO^VSKI has joined the faculty of Gannon College as the first layman to teach in the dept. of theology. The U. of Dayton has also employed the first layman in the theology dept., RALPH CARDILLO. DALLAS ^VEGENER, for­mer teacher and elementary coach at Emmons Jr. High School IS now serving as principal in the New Prairie Community School System at Rolling Prairie, Ind. 
RAY BROWN has completed 12 weeks of special study at Argonne National Lab working on selected engineering problems directly related to the lab's research and development activities before return­ing to ND for more study. 
GAROLD LAMPAL\N and TOM McCOR&IICK have been hired by the National Security Agency as mathematicians. 
Dr. JOE DURKIN has joined Texaco Inc. in the research and technical dept. 
AIR FORCE ROTC FORMS ALUMNI GROUP 
Lt. Colonel Everett E. Blalcely, Professor of Air Science, Notre Dame, announces the formation of an Air Force ROTC Notre Dame Alumni Group. The purpose of such a group is purely a social one and it provides a good reason for all Notre Dame ROTC Alumni to get together. At the present time plans have been made to have a get-together after each HOME­COMING Game and a party during Reunion Weekend in June of eadi year. 
This will enable many Air Force ROTC graduates to swap Air Force experiences after Homecoming Games. The Air Force staff here at Notre Dame is looking forward to meeting many of its old graduates at these affairs. A "test" gathering was held after the Stanford-Notre Dame game on 24 October 1964, and several happy voices were raised in approval of this idea. 
One of the difficulties involved is the address problem of the Alumni. It seems that the Air Force moves its officers rather frequently and diis plays havoc with mailing lists. It would be most helpful if ail our Air Force ROTC graduates dropped a note to Major Francis A. Yeandel, Air Force ROTC, University of Notre Dame (Faculty Advisor for die Air Force ROTC Alumni Group) uith your current address. This will facilitate the mailing of the "Air Force Briefs," the monthly bulletin of the Air Force ROTC here at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1964 59 
Office of the President, 
University of Notre Dame Alumni Association 
Dear Fellow Aluninus: 
Since this magazine wiU be received by )oii at or about year's end, it seems appropriate that we review the progress of your Association during the past year. 
By any yardstick this was an exciting year. We received an un­jjiecedcnted three awards from the American Aliunni Council and College Public Relations Assn., including A.\C"s Grand Award in Alumni Giving and Incentive (a $5,000 cash piizc) for the outstanding alumni association in the entire countiy. We saw the fruition of the Challenge I program, the magnificent Memorial Libraiy, dedicated at the most significant 
academic convocation ever held at an American imiversity. ^Ve have participated in the inaugu­ral year of Challenge II and have seen our long-awaited, urgently needed Athletic and Convo­cation Center selected as tlie top goal. It is fitting that we, who understand the need for this new facility in a greater and more personal way than any of the other jjublics of the University (save the cmrcnt student body), should direct our efforts towaid the achie\'enient o! this goal. 
This year saw our athletic fortunes "come back"' in dramatic fashion. We can have a deseiTed pride in Coach Parseghian and his outstanding stall' for the leadership they provided our football team. Johnny Dee seems to have the basketball situation well in hand and, with the veteran team he inlierited from Johnny Jordan, is optimistic about this season's record. 
With so many of the .•\luiiini Board programs moving smoothly toward their goals, oiu' non­pareil executive secretary, Jim Armstrong, has scheduled an "Alumni Workshop" to be held at the Ijni\ersiiy on Jan. 13-14. This workshop has the avowed intention of exploring and jjointing the way toward the "'Second One Hundred Years" of alumni activity at Notre Dame. Needless to say, your representatives on die Alumni Board and the members of the Universit)- staff who M-ill be involved in the workshop will welcome any suggestions which you may wish to send us con­cerning the toj^ic in question. 
This will no doubt be my last message to you as your president, since it is almost time to tmn over the gavel to a new and wiser leader. May 1 say that I have enjoyed evciy minute of my term of service to you? It has been the most rewarding experience of my life, an experience made possible only by your assistance and support. 
With wannest regards to each of you and your families, 
I remain 
Phili]) J. Facccnda President 









